'■'k'< 




ALBERT H. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 





^,,-'^1-7—:—- ----' ~ 


^^. 






xr^^ 


f 


y% 




V_W' 




^e? 





From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 073 878 708 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924073878708 



The PICAYUNE'S 

Creole 
Cook Book 



FOURTH EDITION 



^^^^HE Qviestion of ' 'a good cook' ' is now be- 
t 1 coming a very vexing problem. The only 
^^^ remedy for this state of things is for the 
ladies of the present day to do as their 
grandmothers did, acquaint themselves 
•thoroughly with ,tlie art of cooking in all its im- 
portant and minutest details, and learn how to 
properly apply them. To assist the good house- 
wives of the present day in this, to preserve to 
future generations the many excellent and match- 
less recipes of our New Orleans cuisine, to gather 
these up from the lips of the old Creole negro 
cooks and the grand old housekeepers who still 
survive,;* ere they, too, pass away, and 'Creole 
Cookery, With all its delightful combinations and 
possibilities, will have become a lost art, is, in a 
measure, the object of this book. :: :: :: :: :: 



Retail Price at picayune office, , - $ 1 .00 

By Registered Mail, - - $1.25 



Copyright 1901, 1906 and 1910 by 
THE PICAYUNE, - NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



Picayune Job Print 



The PICAYUNE'S CREOLE 
COOK BOOK 




INTRODUCTION. 

/■■^^ HE universal favor with which the first editions of THE 
/j PICAYUNE'S CREOLE COOK BOOK were received 
^^J^ throughout the United States, the remarkably short 
time in which they were exhausted, and the numerous 
demands for copies that are continually coming in from all sec- 
tions, has impelled the publishers to issue a Fourth Edition of this 
work. 

The Revised Edition has been prepared with great care. 
Each recipe that has been added has been tried and tested and is 
^iven as the result of personal practical experience and success 
in the Cteole Kitchen. The topics have been more conveniently 
and systematically classified and arranged, . the niethods of prepa- 
ration and manipulation in many instances simplified, and the 
edition, in its entirety, will therefore be found far more complete, 
comprehensive and valuable than the first. 

With these explanations THE PICAYUNE sends forth the 
Creole Cook Book. Its name tells its story and bespeaks its 
value. It is 

THE ONLY BOOK OF THE KIND. 




I'm the Picayune's Weather Trophct, 

It's Froggie so faithful ami true ; 
"Xante Zoe'' has asked me to help her 

In serving so nicely to you, 
The dishes The Picayune bade her 

Prepare as a Creole cook can, 
That men might grow wiser and better, 

And happiness reign in the land. 



INTRODUCTION 

TO THE FIRST EDITION 



^MWr N PRESENTING to the public this Creole Cook Book, The Picayune 

II, is actuated by the desire to fill a want that has long been felt, 

|l not only in New Orleans, where the art of good cooking was long 

H ago reduced to a positive science, but in many sections of the 

country where the fame of our Creole cuisine has spread, and 

with slight modification incident to local supplies of food articles, many of 

our most delightful recipes may be adapted by the intelligent housekeeper with 

profit and pleasure. 

Time was when the question of a Creole Cook Book would have been, as 
far as New Orleans is concerned, as useless an addition to our local literature 
as it is now a necessity, for the Creole negro cooks of nearly two hundred 
•years ago, carefully instructed and directed by their white Creole mistresses, 
who received their inheritance of gastronomic lore from France, where the 
art of good cooking first had birth, faithfully transmitted their knowledge to 
their progeny, and these, quick to appreciate and understand; and with a keen 
intelligence and zeal born of the desire to please, improvised and improved 
upon the product's of the cuisine of Louisiana's mother country ; then came 
the Spanish domination, with its influx of rich and stately dishes, brought over 
by the grand dames of Spain of a century and a half ago ; after that came 
the gradual amalgamation of the two races on Louisiana sdil, and with this 
was evolved a new school of cookery, partaking of the best elements of the 
French and Spanish cuisines, and yet peculiarly distinct from either, a system 
of cookery that has held its- own through suceeodiug generations and which 
drew from even such a learned authority as Thackeray, that noted tribute 
to New Orleans, "the old Franco- Spanish city on the banks of the Mississippi, 
where, of all the cities in the world, you can eat the most and suffer the least, 
where claret is as good as at Bordeaux, and where a 'ragout' and a 'bouilla- 
baisse' can be had, the like of which was never eaten in Marseilles or Paris.'' 
But the Civil War, with its vast upheaval of social conditions, wrought 
great changes in the household economy of New Orleans, as it did throughout 
the South ; here, as elsewhere, she who had ruled as the mistress of yestei'day, 
became her own cook of to-day ; in nine cases out of ten the younger darkies 
accepted their freedom with alacrity, but in many ancient families the older 
Creole "negresse," as they were called, were slow to leave the haunts of the 



old cuisine and the families of which they felt themselves an integral part, 
Many lingered on, and the young girls who grew up after that period had 
opportunities that will never again come to the Creole girls of New Orleans. 
For one of J:he most significant changes and one of the saddest, too, in this 
old city, is the passing of the faithful old negro cooks — the "mammies," who 
felt it a pride and honor, even in poverty, to cling to the fortunes of their 
former masters and mistresses, and out of the scant family allowance to be 
still able to prepare for their "ole Miss' " table a "ragout" from a piece of 
neck. meat, or a "pot-au-poivre" from many mixturees that might grace the 
dining of a king. 

But the "bandana and tignon" are fast disappearing from our kitchens. 
Soon will the last of the olden negro cooks of ante-bellum days have passed 
away and their places will not be supplied, for in New Orleans, as in other 
cities of the South, there is "a new colored woman" as well as a new white. 
The question of "a good cpok" is now becoming a very vexing problem , and 
the' only remedy for this state of things is for the ladies of the present day 
to do as their grandmothers did, acquaint themselves thoroughly with the 
art of cooking in all its important and minutest details, and learn how to 
properly apply them. To assist them in this, to preserve to future generations 
the many excellent and matchless recipes of our New Orleans cuisine, to 
gather these up from the lips of the Old Creole negro cooks and the grand old 
houskeepers who still survive, ere they too, pass away, and Creole cookery, 
with all its delightful combinations and possibilities, will have become a lost 
art, is, in a measure, the object of this book. 

But far and above this. The Picayune, in compiling this book, has been 
animated by the laudable desire to teach the great mass of the public how to 
live cheaply and well. The moral influences of good cooking cannot be too 
forcibly insisted upon. There is an old saying that "the way to a man's heart 
is through his stomach." Every housewife knows the importance of setting a 
well-cooked meal before her husband if she' wishes him to preserve his 
equanimity of tempeii. Every mother should know the importance of pre- 
paring good, nutritious dishes for, her children in the most palatable and appe- 
tizing manner, if she would give them that most precious of all gifts "a 
healthy mind in a healthy body." People are the better, the happier and the 
longer lived for the good, wholesome, well-cooked daily meal. 

The introduction, then, of the art of good cooking into every household 
and a general, intelligent knowledge of the nutritive qualities of food sub- 
stances, are ends greatly to be desired, for the- best food often loses half its 
value through the faults displayed in preparation, while, on the other hand, 
simple and plain dishes may be so cooked that they will acquire a flavor and 
a nutritive value through special combinations that will please the most deli- 
cate appetities. Among all classes to-day there is a deplorable and constant 
waste. Among the rich, the sole aim, of what appears to be good cookery, 
seems rather an effort to tempt by a succession of highly-seasoned and savory 
food and to consume to excess ; while among the poor and middle classes living 
and cooking seem to go on as best they may, with little variety from day to 
day, and still less care and preparation, indeed, the food is often cooked in 
such a way that ready digestion becomes an impossibility, and a large portion 
of the nutriment is either wasted or destroyed utterly. 



It is proposed in this booli to assist the . housekeepers generally to set 
a dainty and appetizing table at a moderate outlay ; to give recipes clearly 
and accurately with simplicity and exactness, so that the problem of "how to 
live," may become easier of solution and even the most ignorant and inex- 
perienced cook may be able to prepare a toothsome and nutritious meal with 
success. The housekeeper is not told "to take some of this, a little of that," 
and "a pinch" of some other ingredient ; she is not left to the chance of 
guessing accidentally at the proper proportions of component parts of any 
dish, but the relative proportions of all ingredients are given with accuracy, 
the proper length of time required for cooking different dishes. In all the 
recipes the quantities are given for u, family of six.. The intelligent houses 
heeper will thus 6e aile to form a happy medium and increase or reduce 
proportionately according to the size of her family, the numler of invited 
guests, etc. r- * j ' 

The Picayune's Creole Cook Booh is not designed for chefs of cuisines ; 
it has! been prepared with special appreciation of the wants of the household 
and of that immense class of housekeepers who, thrown upon their own re- 
sources and anxious to learn, are yet ignorant of the simplest details of 
good cooking ; for young housekeepers who are left to "experience" for a 
teacher, and who often learn only after many disheartening failures arid a 
great outlay and waste of good material, and for the public generally, who, 
as a rule, have yet to learn that in a well-regulated kitchen nothing is ever 
wasted, but with careful preparation even the "rough-ends" of a beef steak 
may be made into a wholesome, tender and appetizing dish ; that "stale bread" 
may be used in the most delicious "desserts" and "farcies," and "left-over" 
food from the day before need not be thrown in the trash-box, but may be 
made into an endless variety of wholesome and nutritious dishes. 

Hence, especial care has: been taken to rescue from oblivion many fine 
old-fashipned dishes, and bring them back into general use — dishes whose 
places can never be equaled by elegant novelties or fancifully extravagant 
recipes ; special attention has been given to the siiiple, every-day home dishes 
of the Creole household, while those that tempted the gourmet and epicureans 
in the palmiest da^fs of old Creole cookery have not been omitted. The 
Picayune points with pride to the famous "soupes," "gumbos," "ragouts," "en- 
tremets," "hors d'oeuvres," "jambalayas" and "desserts," that in turn receive 
particular attention. A special chapter has been devoted to the science of 
making good coffee "a la Creole," and one to the modes of cooking Louisiana 
rice. The consumption of rice has increased enormously Of late, and it will 
continue to become more and more popular as. an article of food when the 
people in the North and West learn how to cook it, and understand how 
largely it enters into a variety of delightful and dainty combinations. Our 
"Galas," our "Pralines," and "Pacane Amandes," our "Marrons Glaces," and 
Ices, and our "Meringues," and our delicious ways of serving Louisiana 
oranges peculiar to ourselves alone, are given in respective order. The history 
of many dishes is also given, thus affording a glimpse into old Creole hospi- 
tality, customs and traditions. Commendable features are the series of menus 
for holidays and daily suggestions for the table, as also the thoroughly classi- 
fied list of seasonable foods. 



Throughout this ' work The Picayune has had but one desire at heart, and 
that is to reach the wants of every household in our cosmopolitan community ; 
to show the earnest houskeeper how the best food may be prepared at the 
least cost, and how it is possible for every family, from the palace to the 
cottage, to keep a good taole and at the same time an economical one. 

"Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well." If this is true of 
other things, how much more of cooking, upon which the life and health of the 
family depend. The kitchen should not be looked upon as a place of drudgery ; 
a poet once sung of 

"Making drudgery divine j 

Who sweeps a room as to God's laws. 

Makes that and the action fine." 

The benefits that will ultimately accrue to every family, morally and 
physically, from paying greater attention to the proper preparation of food 
cannot be overestimated ; the fact that good cooking operates to the greatest 
extent in the preservation of the domestic peace and happiness of a family 
cannot be gainsaid. That this Creole Cook Book may find its way to many 
hearths and homes, and that the life of the household may be the better, 
healthier and happier for its advent, is the wish of 

THE nCAYUNE. 



tCbe jpiicaisune'e Creole 
Cook Book. 



(Fourth Edition) 



CHAPTER I. 
CREOLE} COFFBQ. 

Cafe a. la CrSole. 



A good cup of Ci-eole Coffee. 
Is there anything liif the whole 
range of food substances to be com- 
pared with it? And is there any 
city in the world where coffee is so 
delightfully concocted as in New Or- 
leans? Travelers the world over 
unite in praise of Creole Coffee, 6r 
••Caf§ a la Creole," as they are fond 
of putting it. The Creole cuisini- 
eres succj^edea far beyond even the 
famous chefs of France in discover- 
ing the secret of good coffee-making, 
and they have never yielded the palm 
of victory. There is no place in the 
'world in w^hicb the use oX coffee is 
more general than in the old 
Creole city of New Orleans, where, 
from the famous French Market, 
with its world-renowned coffee 
stands, to the olden homes on the 
Bayou St. John, from Lake Pontch- 
artrain to the verge of SouthpdTt, 
the cup. of "Caf§ Noir," or -"Caf6 au 
X.ait," at morning, at noon and at 
night, has become a necessary and 
delightful part of the life of the 
people, and the wonder and the joy 
of visitors. 

The morning cup of CafS Noir i« 
an integral part of the life of a Cre- 
ole household. The Creoles hold as 
a physiological fact that this custom 
contributes to longevity, and point, 
day after day, to examples of old 
men and women of fourscore, and 
over, who attest to the powerful aid 
they have received through life from 
a good, fragrant cup of coffee In the 
early morning. The ancient resi- 
dents hold, too, that, after a hearty 
meal, a cup of "Cafg Noir," or black 
coffee, will relieve the sense of op- 
pression so apt to be experienced, 
and enables the stomach to perform 
Jts functions with greater facility. 
Cafg Noir is known, too, as one of 



the best preventives of infectious 
diseases, and the ancient Creole phy- 
sicians never used any other deodo- 
rizer than passing a chafing dish 
with burning grains of coffee through 
the room. As an antidote for poison 
the uses of coffee are too well known 
to be dilated upon. 

Coffee is also the greatest brain 
food and stimulant known. Men of 
science, poets and scholars and jour- 
nalists, have testified to its benefi- 
cial effects. Coffee suppo^rted the 
old age of Voltaire, and enabled Fon- 
tenelle to reach his one hundredth 
birthday. Charles Gayarre, the il- 
lustrious Louisiana historian, at the 
advanced age of eighty, paid tribute 
to the Creole cup of "Cafe Noir." 
Among advanced scientists it is rap- 
idly taking the place of digitalis in 
the treatment of certain cardiac af- 
fections, and the basis of black, oaf- - 
fee, "cafffeine," enters largely into 
medicinal compositions. Coffee is 
now classed by physicians as an aux- 
iliary food substance, as retard- 
ing the waste of nerve tissue and 
acting with peculiarly strengthening 
effect upon the nervous and vascular 
system. 

How important, then, is the art of 
making good coffee, entering, as it 
does, so largely into the daily life of 
the American people. There is no 
reason why the secret should be con- 
fined to any section or city^ but, with 
a little care and attention, every 
household in the land may enjoy its 
morning or after-dinner cup of cof- 
fee with as much real pleasure as the 
Creoles of New Orleans and the thou- 
sands of visitors who yearly migrate 
to this old Franco-Spanish city. 

It is, therefore, with pardonable 
pride that the Picayune begins thla 
Creole Cook Book by introducing ita 



10 



readers into a typical Creole kitchen 
where "Tante Zo§," in the early 
morning hour, in her quaint, guinea- 
blue dress and bandana "tignon," is 
carefully concocting the morning cup 
ot 

' CAFfi NOIR. 

And the first she will tell you, this 
old CrSole NSgresse, as she busies 
herself parching to a beautiful brown 
the jiiorning portion of green coffee, 
that the secret of good coffee lies in 
having 

Tlie Best Ingredients and in tlie 
^ Proper Making. 

By the best ingredients she means 
mose delightful coffees grown on 
well-watered mountain slopes, such , 
as the famous Java and Mocha cof- 
fees. It must be of the best quality, 
the Mocha and Java mixed producing 
a. concoction of a most delightful 
aroma and stimulating effect. She 
will tell you, too, that one of the 
first essentials is to "Parch the Cof- 
fee Grains jTJst Before Making the 
Coffee," because coffee that has bee.i 
loiig parched and left standing loses 
its flavftr and 'strengthi The coffee 
grains should "Be Roasted to a Rich' 
Brown," and never allowed to scorch- 
or burn, otherwise the flavor of the 
coffee is at once affected or de- 
stroyed. Good coffee should never be 
boiled. Bear this io- mind, that the 
GOoD. CREJOL.B COOK NEVER 
B9P..S COFFEE; but insists on -drip- 
ping it,,in- at,<foyered strainer, sWwly, 
slowly— iPRIE, DBIPjDRJP^.till .al-l 
the flavor is extracted. •'■ 

To reach this desired end, immedi- 
ately after the coffee has been 
roasted and allowed to cool in a 
covered dish, so that none of the 
flavor will escape, the coffee is 
ground — neither ■ too fine, for that 
will make the coffee dreggy; nor too 
coarse, for that prevents the escape 
of the. .full strength of ;the coffee 
Juice — but a careful medium pro- 
portion, --which will not allow the 
hot wa-ter pouring to- run rapidly 
through, but which will admit o£ 
the water percolating -slowly through- 
and through the grounds, extracting 
ever^y bit -of the strength ..a.iid aropa, 
and falling steadily wifela ""a drip! 
drip!" into the coffee pot. 

To make good coffee, the water 
must be, : "freshly boiled," and must 
never, be- poured upon the grounds 
until it has reached the good boil-- 
ing point, otherwise the flavor is de- 
stroyed, and subsequ.*n;t:'pourings of 
boiling-.-water can -never quite suc- 
ceed .in. 'extracting- the superb 
strength and aroma -which disting- 
uish the., good cup of coffee. 
. It. is of the .greatest-. Importajjce. 
that "The Coffee. Pot" Be Kept iPsr-' 
fectly Clean," and the good cook 



will bear in mind that absolute clean- 
liness is as necessary for the in- 
terior" of the coffee pot as for the 
shining "exterior." This fact is one 
too commonly overlooked, and-, y^t 
the coffee pot .Requires more .than, or- 
din-ary care,- for -the reason .that the 
chemical action 'of the coffee upon 
the tin or agate tends to create a 
substance wh|eh collects and clings 
to every crevice. and seam, and, natu- 
rally, in the course of time will af- 
fect the flavor of the coffee most 
peculiarly and unpleasantly. Very 
often the fact that the coffee tastes 
bitter or muddy arises from this 
fact. The "inside" of the coffee pot 
should,- therefore, be washed as 
carefully "every day" as the outside. 
Having observed these conditions, 
proceed to make the coffee according 
to the following unfailing 

Creole Rule. 

Have the water heated to a good 
boil. Set the coffee pot in froiit Of 
the stove; never on top, as the coffee 
will boil, and thert th'e taste is de- 
stroyed. 

Allow- one cup,' or the ordinary^ 
mill, of coffee to' mak6 four" ■ '4:o'3J'^ 
cups of the liquid,- grounij and 'put' 
in the -strainer,' being-.. earefuV"' to" 
keep both the strain^r'-atid the' spout ' 
of the coffee-pot covered; to ptJSV6nt 
the flavor from escaping. Pour,-flr-st, 
about two . tablespoonfuls- of the 
boiling water on the .coffee groiitids, •■ 
or, according to th«- quantity of coffee 
used, just sufficient - to ' settle -the' 
grounds. Wait about five minlUtBX^f-' 
then pour a-, little .more-^-waiter, -anfl" 
allow it to -drip sloiWy'.thisottgh.i-but' 
never pour water the .-second ti-me3 
until the grounds have ceased to puff 
or bubble, as this- is an indication 
that the grounds have settled. Keep 
pouring slowly, at -intervals, a-littie 
boiling water at -a time, until the 
d-elightful aroma of the coffee. begins' 
to escape from the closed spout PS- 
the coffee- pot. If the coffee dyes 
the- cup, it is a little too strong; but 
do not go far beyond this, . or thft, 
coffee will be too weak. "When you 
have produced a rich, ."fragrabt.. con- 
coction, whose delightful arora,a;/;fill-, 
ing thfe rootn,'.is. ,a -Cdnst^At, te-iipting, 
iVlYit'aitloh. to'.'ta.stfi.'it, ^?,erve"iiai';.tine; 
china cups, u.s'irig n'n' preferghc.e TttaA" 
sugar for sweetening. Ypii '^a've! 
then a real cup of the faraoifs i;>^di# 
Cafe Noir, . so.^_ ext,en.3ively usad,' at," 
morning .d.aiS^n, 'at breaktast,, and'.as 
the ."afterdinner cup."" 
. If the .coffee appears/m-ud'ijjc, or^n'ot. 
clear, some, of the old- Creoje^ "drDP 
a piece qf charcoaVaij. .i.nch-thi'oi.'in- 
to. the, water, w-hioh s^t.tles7it'.^n,4 ^t. 
once- makes it clear. Oem^igtra^ions 
prove that" strength rema(:;}s'.;,i'n. the' 
aoffee grounds. A ma1;ter of e'^ynonjy' 
in making coffee is to save the 



11 



grounds from the meal or day before 
and boil these, in a half gallon of 
water. Settle the grounds by drop- 
ping two or three drops of cold wa- 
ter in, &,nd pour~The water over the 
fresh grounds. This is a suggestion 
that rich and poor might heed with 
profit. 

CAF;e AU LAIT. 

Proceea in the same manner as in 
the making of "Cafe Noir," allowing 
the usual Quantity of boiling water 
to the amount of coffee used. Wlien 
made, pour the coffee into delicate 
china cups, allowing a half cup of 
coffee to each cup. Serve, at the 
same time, a -small pitcher of very 



sweet and fresh cream, allowing a 
half cup -of cream to a half .cup of 
coffee. The millt should always be 
boiled, and the cream very hot. If 
the cream is not fresh and sweet, it 
will curdle the coffee, by reason of 
the heat. Catg au Lait is a great 
breakfast drink in New Orleans, 
while Cafg Noir Is more generally 
the early morning and the afternoon 
drink. 

Having thus bid its readers "Good 
morning," and- drank with them a 
cup of Cafe Noir, the Picayune will 
proceed to discuss Creole Cookery 
in all its "forms, frofn soup "a, la Cre- 
ole," to "paoandes amandes" anJ 
"praliii«s." 



CHAPTER II. 



:-.-.i SOUPS. '- 

General Directions for Makjng Soup — The Pot-ia,.u-Feu, -tlae Bouillon 
" - and the (^onsdnimfc' '' ■"- >:' ■'■ 



Uncooked meat is the .base of all 
soups, except such as- tlie Creoles 
call "Mai-gre," or fast-day soups. 
These ■■ delightf-al •^'Creatrf SoupB;' or 
Purges, will be sp'SblSiry trfekted la- 
ter. They enteV largely into the do- 
mestic life of New Orleans, as also 
more particularly the Pot-au-Feu, 
the Bouillon and the -!p6ns6mm6. 
These three are the "mother-soups," 
for upon their careful preparation, 
depend, taste, .flavor and the entire 
problem pf good soup-making. 

The, ancient Creoles preserved with 
few mbdlAeatjons many of the cus- 
toms of " their French ancestors. 
Among .these, was, " the daily plate 
of soup. . .'■„ 

In- France soup, enters far more, 
largely into the l,ife of the people 
than-^t\, this.- old French city o^ New 
QrlealijIlThe mprning cup of bouillon 
lS,Be,r'{jf^in the" jjnost , exclusive homeis, 
A-c)i(^^,ftf cla,r,et,g.iid-.,a-plat6 of .good., 
soup is the essential morning portioiijr 
of _ the peasantry. Soup is always 
served at dinner from palace to h3Vri 
«*1, Ap'.i.in,. the "dfiliceus^' cup of 
^.r»M iioLi' , is served ,a.t teas and. 
soirees ;n old France just-a^ served 
to-day in .its ancient colony pp jtl^e 
hanks . of , i'ne , Mississippi. The Cre- 
oles relegated the. morning cup of 
bouillon,, biii retained ,' the, daily sery.- 
ing of sous atdi,nner, ajj,,,tin:ve" intro- 
ducing, as .i^'l.trequent sujjstitute tha,t, 
exclusive, Cr^flle Gflncpjtion, , ,pj^ml)o. 
No dinne'-V is ,cpnsi.dered., cc^mplete 
without cither. The custom" has-been 
sustairijca. .<gnd , jidopte(J by. A'niei;fean 
residetits ,^f N^fv;s.Qrieans.,. , The,,Qre- 
ole- . hous«wi^e«„\lays the. grea.f^est 
stress unon two' great essentials In 



the making .of good souj),;din the first 
I plai'e, the soup must never stop boil- 
i ing one instant until done; secondly, 
I once the soup. is started; water must 
I rte^^far be adtfcd, 'Neither, on the other 
; handii mus.t.'.the' 59UP- -be allowed;. tOi 
I boil rapidly, or it will bemULddy and, 
; lose; much of its flavor anJ strengihf 
'■ by,:.eiVa.piorationi The. "soup bone,"i 
or',"bou111ii" as we call it down Jhere.- 
in New Orleans, must be -,put on in, 
cold water, without salt, and must- 
heat slowly-,-: . The pot must be kept 
well covered, and no ,salt must be 
added until the meat is. .thoroughly- 
; cooked, as the addition of salt tends 
' to harden the fibers of the moat and 
prevents the free flow of the juices, 

■ At no stage of the proceeding must 
the soup be allowed to boil fast. If 
the bone has been fractured every 
inch of its^ length,' the soup will be 
ai,l tjje stronger and more nutri- 
tious, The^-beef .shouja b^ selected 
fQ,r ?fts,'';duality,'';as •.f'r^'^Tly' ^iUed as 
possible, and' prefefabl3^.;o.f 'the' eiit,' 
known by butcliers" as' "Tlib Htjrse-' 
shoe,"', Tp be ^inost nutritious the 
soup , sho'illd bpir a long time. The 
Creoles, jj^'ver ■ .feerve soUp that .lia's; 
been, cbb'kiri'g, less than five or seven 
hours,', , according , to the' quantity' to 
be served. In a well-regulate'cl 
household, the soup is put on at 
br^e^fa^t time, in the rear o£ the 
stove,.,^hd allow'p'4 .to .cook slowly f,6r 
-fp.tir, pr_'^,fiye. ^.JiOu^, until , the. tirne' 
cpnie's' fo'r , piittitj^_'ijjl ,-the dinnej-' 
proper. ., In 'th'e ipea,nt,ithe, the fire 
has,, 'tq^^ rep,lenJshed ;|lPwly ,frbrh 

! tj'm'q to time,' ;'sp, , that ^hen the 'mo- - 

■ nxenj.jto'r', add.i'n_g', the, vegetables^ 'dr 
' other ' ingredients arrives, the 



strength oJ.^,the meat has been nearly 
or quite extracted. 

The two suggestions, "Never al- 
low the soup to cease boiling when 
once it has begun, and never to add 
water after the ingredients are once 
put together and begin to boil," 
have been called the "Golden Rule" 
of soup-making. The housekeeper 
should take them to heart, for upon 
their strict observance depends that 
boon to poor, suffering humanity — 
a good plate of soup. It these rules 
are learned and reliably followed, 
the first step has been taken to- 
wards setting a good dinner. 

It might be added here that while 
soup stock is of general use in colder 
climates, and can be made and kept 
for several days, the warm tropical 
climate of New Orleans precludes 
this, as the stock would become 
sour; the soup broth must, therefore, 
be prepared fresh every day. 

Rice flour, arrowroot or corn- 
starch , mixed .''T*ith aC little water 
are often used to thicken soups; 
but every good Creole cook knows 
that the soup that Is properly made 
needs no thickening. Salt should be 
used sparingly, as also spices, which 
should always be us«d whole. 

To be palatable, soup must be 
served very hot. 

It Is generally estimated that In 
preparing soups a pound of meat 
sirouid be allowed for every «(«art o£ 
water. In the following recipes the 
Ingredients must be increased pro- 
portionatelyi according to the num- 
ber of Tpesseits to bc-iseTved. The In- 
telligent housekeeper can readily du- 
termine the exact measurements 
needed in her family, increasing pro- 
portions when guests are expected 
at the family table. 

The Every-DHy Pot-au-Feu, or 
Simple Bouillon. 

The Pot-au-Feu, or Bouillon, is 
made by boiling a good soup bone 
which has been carefully selected 
for its nutritive qualities in water 
a certain length of time, by means of 
which the nutriment is extracted. 
Bouillon of the best quality can only 
be made from good meat, which 
should be chosen from the fleshy. 
Juicy part of the thigh. Meat from 
the, breast or lower ribs makes- gt>oct 
Pot-au-Feu, but of a lighter quality, 
and is preferred by some Creole 
cuisiniSres. 

The vegetables used are found in 
the "soup bunch" sold by every New 
Orleans butcher, and carefully ar- 
ranged. The bunch comprises pieces 
of cabbage, a turnip or two, carrots, 
parsley, celery and onion. Many of 
the most famous Creole cooks add 
garlic and cloves, thyme, bay leaf 
and allspice. But this is a matter of 



taste. The " every day SSuillon is 
made by boiling the soup bone for 
four or five hours, skimming care- 
fully as the scum rises; and adding, 
as it starts boiling well, the vegeta- 
bles contained in the "soup bunch." 
If vermicelli, macaroni or other soup 
is desired, such as can be made from 
the simple Bouillon, or Pot-au- Feu, 
these ingredients are added In the 
proportions mentioned in the special 
receipt for these soups, and the soup 
is boiled an hour or so longer. 

The Herb Bouquet. 

Every good Creole cook keeps on 
hand an "herb bouquet," made of a 
spray of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
celery, parsley and bay leaf. These 
are tied together, and constitute the 
"bouquet." It will flavor a gallon 
of soup. If cooked for an hour. 

POT-AU-FEUvA LA ORfiOLE. 

4 Pounds of Leah Beef. 

6 Quarts of CJoId Water. 

2 Small Turuips. 2 Onions. 2 Carrots. 

1 Parsnip. 1 Cup of Cut-up Tomatoes. 

2 Whole Cloves. 

1 Bay Leaf. IClove of Garlic. 5 Allspice. 

2 Irish Potatoes. 

Small Piece of Lemon Peel. 

Small Piece of Red Pepper Pod. 

Buuch of Celery Leaves (Chopped.) 

Bunch of Parsley (Chopped.) 

Pinch of Salt^. Pinch of Black Pepper. 

Sprig of Cabbage. 

This Pot-au-Feu, properly made, 
is truly delicious, savory and dell- 
caiely odorous. The best cut for 
this is from the round low^er end of 
the beef. It is important to have 
good beef, and that it be as freshly 
killed as can be had. Many of the 
Creoles add the beef spleen or 
brisket to the soup. This Is rich and 
juicy, and gives nutritive value to 
the dish. If -delicacy is preferred to 
richness in the soup, the marrow 
bone is omitted. Put the meat into 
cold water, heating by slow degrees 
in order that it may gradually pen- 
etrate the meat, softening It and dis- 
solving the non-nutritive portion, 
which rises to the top of the liquid 
as a scum. As the scum becomes 
thicker remove it. After having 
skimmed well, set the soup back 
where it can be kept on a, gentle 
but steady, boil; when the soup is 
well skimmed, add the vegetables, 
which have been cut to proper fine- 
ness, and a little salt to suit the 
taste, and let the soup continue to 
boil from five to six hours, remem- 
bering strictly the two essential 
rules given. By following this recipe 
you will have an excellent soup for 
family use. 

The Creoles often serve the Pot- 
au-Feu with small squares of dry or 
toasted bread, put Into the tureen 



and the hot soup is poured over thein 
at the moment'-of serving, 

Should the-ilaV*r of the garlic, 
allspice, cloves or bay leaf be disa- 
greeable, they may be omitted. But 
they are essential ingredients of tlie 
Creole Pot-au-Feu. 

A particularly delicate flavor is 
often obtained by adding to the beef 
some pieces of raw fowl, or the re- 
mains of a cooked fowl, more espe- 
cially the carcass. But never add 
remains of mutton, pork or veal, as 
these meats impart an acrid odor, 
detracting from the perfection of 
the Pot-au-Feu. 

BOUILi,ON. 

To make a good Bouillon is an art 
in itself. It is the soup that most 
frequently, after the Pot-au-Feu, en- 
ters Into the economy of the Creole 
household. It is not only used in the 
daily menu, but on occasions of fam- 
ily reunions and soirfies, is served 
cold or warm in cups. It is always 
prepared in a concentrated form for 
the use of invalids. In illness, where 
the quantity administered is required 
to be as nutritious as possible, the 
round steak should always be chosen 
for the Bouillon, and It is decidedly 
better -not to clear the soup, as the 
pi-ocess of clearing not only destroys 
a great deal- of ttte-i delicate flavor, 
but also of tfier-nutriment contained 
In the BoUilloW/r- 

Select good fi5gs-h beef, and where 
intended for arf' invalid allow two 
pounds of beef to every quart of wa- 
ter. The B(j^lon should always 
boil from six ito seven hours. For 
dinners, luncheons, etc., the follow- 
ing proportions may be used: 

6 POiinda of Beet, without Bone or Fat. 
6 Quarts of Cola Water. _ 
4 Cloves. Allspice. 
A Small Cup of Fresli or Canned Tomatoes. 
1 Teaspoon of Salt. 
1 Spoon of Celery Seed. 
I Bay Leaf. 
A Piece of Red Pepper I'od, without Seeds. 
(Omit for the Sick.) 
1 Clove of Garlic (omit for the Sick.) 

Put these ingredients into the soup 
kettle, after the Bouillon has been 
brought to a boil. Then set aside 
and let it simmer gently, but never 
allow the soup to rack. After two 
and a. half hours add 

A Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Onion cut - In pieces. 

1 Small Bunch of Celery, If you have not 

used tbe seed. 

1 Medium-Sized Carrot, chopped fl^e. 

Replace the cover and let ' tlie 
Bouillon boil gently for two and one- 
half hours more, making flve hours of 
actual boiling when not intended for 
Invalid use. At this stage, from the 
quantity of ingredients used in the 
above recipe, the Bouillon will meas- 



13 



ure about three quarts for. family 
use. If you decide not to clarify the 
soup, set it aside and let It settle, 
then carefully pour off the upper 
portion, but do not shake the bowl or 
disturb the sediment. Tlie Creoles 
then add about a tablespoonful ol 
celery and a little cayenne. Th's 
soup requires no artificial coloring, 
its own strength and long boiling 
producing a beautiful tint. Should 
a greater quantity be required, the , 
housekeeper will guide herself ac- 
cording to the proportions given in 
this receipt. 

To Clarify Bouillon. 

To clarify Bouillon, remove the fat 
and pour the broth into a clear ket- 
tle. Add the crushed shells of two 
eggs. Stir this into the cold soup 
until well mixed. Set it on the fire, 
and from the moment it begins to 
boil let it cook steadily ten minutes 
longer. Set it back on the stove or 
hearth for four or flve minutes to 
settle. Then strain it through a 
towel. Allow the Bouillon to drip, 
remembering never to squeeze the 
bag. A very clear soup is never a 
very nutritious one. 

CONSOMME. 

6 Pounds of Lean Beef. 

2 Laige-Sized Onions. 

2 Carrots. 2- Stalks Celery. 

1 Piece of Obbage.,^ 

Salt and Cayenne tn Taste." 

A Consommg is a clear soup. 

Select six pounds of leh.n beef, 
rump of beef and some bones, and cut 
the meat into small pieces, the bones 
also being mashed. Put this on in 
about six quarts of cold water, and, 
when it comes to a boil, skim well. 
Then add a teaspoonful of salt tJ 
help the scum rise more thoroughly, 
and skim as • it rises. Take 
two large sized onions, two 
carrots, a piece of cabbage and two 
pieces of celery; chop fine and add 
to the soup, and let it boil six hours, 
or until the broth is reduced about 
one-half the quantity. By this time 
the meat should be cooked into rags. 
Pass all through a colander and then 
strain through a coarse flannel cloth. 
Season highly with Cayenne pepper 
and salt to the taste. If the meat is 
good, the soup will be perfectly 
clear. If it is cloudy or muddv be- 
fore straining, crush the shells of 
two eggs and put them into the soup 
and let it come to a good boil. Set 
it back about ten minutes and then 
strain. Add vermicelli, or -macaroni, 
br pat§s,-'=a;cooTding to' taste. Th-:s 
soup will require no artificial col- 
oring. ., 

'' ',-$'j Colorings for Soap, 

Having given the recipes for the 
"mother soups," which are the bases 



u 



of all soups, a word must be said 
about colorings for soup. While 
colorings bave been extensively 
used in New Orleans, the good old 
Creoles long ago found out that 
coloring matter,, whether in liatiid 
form or in balls or tablets, detracted 
.from the. good flavor of the soup, 
and that a properly made soup need- 
ed no coloring. The good Bouillon 
has a color peculiar to itself — a red- 
dish yellow, which comes from the 
juice of the meat. The absence of 
.natural color In the soup indicates 
that too small an amount of meat 
has been used in proportion to th; 
water, a poor quality of meat, or 
there has been a too rapid process 
of boiling. Still, if colorings are 
desired, the foUowijlg recipe, which 
is free from the deleterious co.n- 
pounds sold in siores, has long been 
used by the .Creoles for coloring 
gravies, and may be used with good 
e.tfect.'in soups.' It. is ca.lled by the 
preoles . ,r. . 



Caramel. 

Take about a half pint of brown 
sugar, put it in a pan, on a slow me, 
and let it burn or parch, slowly 
stirring all the time. When it turns 
a dark brown, add two pints of wa- 
ter and stir well, and then bottle. 
Put it away and use a. few drops at 
a time to color and thicken gravies 
and soup broths. Or. take a large 
raw onion, skin and all, and thrust 
into the burning coals. When it be- 
gins to brown well, take out of the 
coals, dust off all the ashes and 
throw into the soup- or gravy. This 
will give all the coloring that is 
needed. 

More simple or satisfactory recipes 
cannot be .found. Nevertheless, th^e 
Creoies jnaintain', and. demonstrate 
that' the best ooltjring for soups is 
that .prb'dueed iry good material and 
long boiling. . 



CHAPl'lSRIII. 
MEAT SOUPS. 



Julienne Soup. '^ 

Potage "it la JuU'enrtfe. 

5 rounds of Lean Beef. 5 Quarts tit Water. 

2 T'Jl'Uips.' 2 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

2 Leelis. A Suaall Stalk- of Culery. 

3 Tomatojes. 
A Small nalf-Heaa of Wliite Cabbage. 

1 Gill of areen Peas., 
The shin of the beef is tli'e best to 

make a good Julienne ss'up. Set the 
beef and water in a close vessel 
where they will heat gradually. Af- 
ter boiling five or six hours add the 
fol-lowing vegetables, which have 
been carefully prepared according to 
these directions: Cut the vegetables 
into long, thin shreds. Take a table- 
spoonful of lard, heat and add the 
vegetables, letting them fry or 
smother until a'golden brown. Then 
add to the ■ boiling broth. If fresh 
peas are used they must be boiled 
apart. If canned peas, simply add to 
the broth, after throwing in the veg- 
etables. Let them cook in the broth 
one hour longer- and serve hot with 
the 'vegetables. 

, Verjnicelll Soup. 

G-onsonlmg, ou Potage au Vermicelle. 

'-■% Pint of Broth to Each Person."" 
1 Oiiijce of Vermicelli to Each Person. 

Prepare a good Bouillon, or Pot- 
au-Feu, or Consommg, according to 
the taste of the household, the sim- 



ple Pot-au-Peu being most generally 
lused.' ■ A half hour before -serving 
add the vermicelli to the broth, and 
serve hot. 

nincnroni Soup. 

Potage au Macaroni. 

2 Quarts of Broth. 
14 Pound of Macaroni. 

Prepare a good Pot-au-Feu, or 
Bouillon, according to directions giv- 
en, and allowing a quarter of a pound 
of macaroni to- two q.uarts of broth. 
Break the macaroni into two-inch 
length pieces and add to the boiling 
broth about a half hour or so before 
serving. Some housekeepers cook the 
macaroni seperately in salted boiling 
water about ten or fifteen minutes 
draining thoroughly, and dropping 
into the boiling broth about fifteen 
minutes before serving. The soup is 
often served with Parmesan cheese, 
grated. But this is not necessary. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Potage au Tapioca. 

4 Ounces of Tapioca. 3 Quarts of Broth. 

To three quarts of broth add, about 
forty minutes before serving, four 
ounces of tapioca. ' The tapioca 
should be previously soaked a few 
hours. Stir frequently in the broth 
while boiling, and serve hot. 



Sngo Soup. 

Potage au Sago. 

3 rints of Eroth. 
2 OLnues of Sago. 

The sago should always be soaked 
overnight. Allow two ounces to 
every three pints of broth or Con- 
somme. Boil for one hour before 
serving, stirring occasionally. 

Rice Soup, 

Potage au Riz. 

1 Half Cup of Rice. 
3 Piuts of Bi-otu oi- Consomme. 

Prepare the clear Pot-au-Feu or 
ConsommS. Wiren nearly done add 
one naif cupful of rice, whicli has 
been thoroughly washed and dried. 
Cooki for about twenty-five minutes 
longer, or until done, and serve. 

Barley' soup is prepared after the 
same style, using a Clear Bouillon or 
Consommg. 

Okra Soup. 

Potage au P-6vi. 

■ H- 

2 Ppunds of Beef -vvitliout.fat or bone. 

2 Cup" jf Okra, cliopped fine. 

Vi Pound of Butter. 4 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Onlpu, ..sliced and cjiopped. 

I ^ Salt and Pepper. 

Cut the beef into small pieces, and 
.seaso,n well with butter, pepper and 
sajt. I'j^y^.it in the soup- kettlie with 
tjie. onion gknd butter, until very 
brown. Then add the cold water and 
let it simmer for an hour and a half. 
Add the okra and let it simmer gent- 
ly for three or four hours longer. 

Ox-Tail Soup. 

Soupe de Queue de Boeuf. 

■ ■ ■ 1 Ox Tall. 

A Bunch of Soup Herbs. 1 Head of Celery, 
4 (Juarta of Boilins Water. 1 Large Oniuu. 
2 Carrots. 3 Cloves. 
' A Mpris of Parsley. 

A Small Slice of Lean Ham or Beef. 
Salt and Pepper. 
Cut the tail in pieces trom the 
joint, - and then cut again into the 
size' of a peanut, or one inch and a 
half in length. Chop the onions 
verj^ fine. Put the onion and a 
tablespoonful of lard into a frying 
pan and add the ox tail. Cook slow- 
ly until it begins to brown, then add 
the carrot, cut in pieces about the 
size of a green pea, and about a 
sauare inch of ham, chopped very 
fine. Let this brown, and. when it 
begin.s . to, brown nicely, add the 
thyme, ■' bay leaf,- three cloves, one 
clove- .ol garlic, all chopped very fine. 
Let this continue to brown, being 
careful hot to burn, and then add 
one tablespoonful of flour, dredged in 
lightly and stirred, and when all is 
nicely browned, add about five quarts 



of Consomme, if you have it; if not, 
Ave quarts of boiling water and 
three tablespoonfuls of barley. Let 
it cook together about four hours, 
simmering gently, seasoning with 
salt, pepper and cayenne to taste, 
and when ready to serve, add two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Serve 
one joint to each person. Wine may 
be omitted. 

Noodle Soup. 

Pctage au Nouilles. 

3 Qu'arts of Good Bouillon or Consomme. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

Tlie Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Flour. MiTablespoouful of Salt. 

Prepare a good Bouillon or Con- 
somang. To a quart .,of the soup, 
add noodles made as follows: Beat 
the yolks of three eggs, and the 
white of two together until very 
light; add one cup of flour, one half 
teaspooii- of salt, and mix with cold 
water; making a stiff paste; roll very 
thin; then roll each strip to form a 
tube; cut in strips,- grease and sim- 
mer a few at a time -in boiling salt 
water . for about twenty minutes. 
Simmer the noodles in the soup about 
f.tteen minutes. 

Musliroom Soup.. 

Potage ail Champignons. 

Vi Pound of Good Macaroni. 
>/i Pound of Fresh Mushrooms or a Halt 
Can of Mushrooms. 
^ Carrot and Onion. 
", Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
. - 2 Pints of Consomme or Bouillon. 
1 Pint of Cream. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
- Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Break the macaroni into pieces of 
about three inches; wash and put in- 
to a stewpan, with two quarts df 
boiling water; add three teaspoonfuls 
of salt. Let the macaroni boil half 
an hour, and meanwhile make a 
sauce. Put the butter and flour in 
a small stewpari and beat to a cream. 
Then add the chopped onion, carrot 
and pepper, and remaining salt and 
broth, and heat slowly. When the 
sauce begins to boil, set it . back, 
-where it will only simmer, for about 
twenty minutes. At the end of that 
time, add the crBam and then strain 
the sauce. Pour the water from the 
-mp-caroni, and in its place put the 
sauce, and mushrooms; cook for five 
minutes, and serve hot. 

The Creole housekeeper never u-Ses 
any iDut a silver spoon in cooking 
fresh mushrooms. If the- spoon is 
darkened, the mushrooms are not 
good. This is an infallible test in 
using. fresh mushrooms. The canned 
French mushrooms are not only the 
best, but the safest. 



16 



Fotage Croupe-au-Pot. 

3 Quarts of Good Consomme. 
10 Pieces of Dried Toast. 1 Carrot, cut flue. 
1 Head of Celery, cut flue. 
1 Turnip, cut flue. 
Potage Croute-au-pot is one o£ 
the most popular and excellent Cre- 
ole soups. Prepare a good co i- 
sommg. In the meantime, parboil ttie 
vegetables in salted boiling water. 
When tender, drain off the water, 
and add to them about two and one- 
half quarts o( the boiling consommfr 
Let them simmer until they are very 
tender. Prepare the toasts and put 
them into a saucepan with enough 
consomme to cover them. Simmer 
gently until the toasts have absorbed 
all the consomme and show signs of 
drying up. Then add a little hot 
consomme, detach them from the 
saucepan, lay them in the tureen and 
pour the soup with the vegetables 
very gently over them. Serve Im- 
mediately- 
Savory Soup. 

Potage a. la Bonne MSnagSre. 
4 Pounds of Lean Beet. 4 Quarts of Water. 
1 Onion, chopped fine. 
3 Sprigs of Parsley. liBny Leaf. 
1 Sprig of Thyme. %Cup. of Rice. 
3 Tablespoonf uls of Oatmeal. ^ • 
1 Tablespoonf ul of Salt.. %■ Teaspoonf-ul of 
Pepper. 
Put the meat in four quarts' of 
cold water -and let it simmer for 
three hours. 

One hour before serving, adl one- 
halt cup of rice, which has been 
soaked in water until soft, and three 
tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, one table- 
spoonful of salt and one-fourth tex- 
spoonful of pepper. Add parsley, 
sprig of thyme and, one onion, 
chopped fine. Boil an houf^ longer 
and serve, very hot. This makes a 
delicious soup. 

Corn Soup. 

Soupe au Mai Tendre. 
6 Pounds of the Lower Bibs of Beef, 
a Quarts of Cold Water. 
1 Quart of Sliced Fresh Tomatoes. 
1 Quart of Corn, sliced from the cob. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
One Pod of Cayenne Pepper, without seeds. 
Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 
Corn soup is one of the most popu- 
lar Creole summer soups. . At this 
season, when corn' and tomatoes are 
plentiful, the following will be found 
not only a delicious, but a highly nu- 
tritive soup: 

Take six pounds of the lower ribs 
of the beef, a quart of sliced fresli 
tomatoes, a quart of corn sliced fro.n 
the cob, six quarts of water, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one of flour, 
and salt and pepper to suit the taste. 



Put the meat'and water Into 9 BOup- 
rot, and as soon as the scum begins, 
to rise, skim carefully. Then add 
the tomatoes and the corncobs. Cook 
for four hours or so longer; then take- 
out the corncobs, and add the corn,, 
cut fine, salt and pepper to suit the- 
taste, adding a pod of Cayenne pep- 
per, without the seeds; cook one 
hour longer and then serve with 
slices of toast bread. 

Tomato Consomni£. 

Consomme de Tomates. 

A Shin of Veal. 

3 Pounds of Shin of Beef. 

8 Quarts of Wo*er. 1 Cup of Tomatoes. 

A Handful of Sorrel (if tomatoes are not 

used.) 

Salt and Pepper. 3 Onions. 3 Leeks. 

10 AUspirp 6 Cloves. 3 Large Carrots. 

1 Head of Celery. 1 Bunch of Parsley. 

A Chicken may be substituted for the Shlu 

of Veal. 

Put the meat and chicken (the lat- 
ter cut up) into a large soup kettle 
and let it come slowly to a boil. Then 
draw it forward, and as it begins to 
boil more rapidly skim as the scum 
rises. After another hour add the 
pepper, salt and vegetables. The 
soup should boil incessantly, but 
gently, for about eiglit" "hours, re- 
quiring in all about nine hours of 
good coofeing. It should, there'fore, 
be put on very early in the morning, 
and, if required, for luncheon, should 
be made the day before. When the 
soup has boiled gently for the pre- 
scribed time take it off, strain Into 
a large bowi and set it away in the 
ice box until the next day, if not for 
immediate use. Then remove the fat 
from the surface, and pour off all 
the clear part into a saucepan and 
boil again for one or two hours. Then 
remove it from the fire. This will 
make a stiff jelly, which will keep 
in "Winter for several days in the ice 
box. It also serves to make a beau- 
tiful Sauce Espagnole, or Spanish 
Sauce. The best way to keep It is 
in earthern pitchers holding from one 
to two quarts, allowing a certain 
quantity for each day. 

This soup requires no artifiuial 
coloring. Use the thick part of the 
soup with vegetables or other pur6e. 

Mock-Turtle Soup. 

Soupe !\ la Tortue. 

1 Calf's Head. 14 Pound of Calf's Liyer. 

5 Quarts of Cold Water. 

Bunch of iSonp Herbs. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs.. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

.1 Gill of Sherry. 1 Bay Leaf. 12 Cloves. 

1 Onion. 1 Lemon. 

4 Level Teaspoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Turnip. 

1 Level Teaspoonful Mushroom Catsup. 

1 Carrot. 

1 Level Teaspoonful Worcestershire Sauce 

Salt and Pepper to Suit Taste 



17 



Select a fine calf's head, not too 
large. If large^ reserve half and 
the tongue and brains to make an- 
other dish. Get the butcher to crack 
the head well and remove the brains. 
Wash ttfe head thoroughly in cold 
water, and then be careful to pour 
boiling water through the nose and 
throat passages u ' '1 they are per- 
fectly clean, and sciuiO out the ears 
thoroughly, washing very clean. 
Einse all well in cold water, and be 
very sure that the head is very sweet 
and clean before attempting to cook 
U. Put the head In a kettle with 
five quarts of cold water, and set it 
over a moderate Are. When it be- 
gins to boil well, skim thoroughly, 
till every particle of scum has been 
taken oft. Then set it back and let 
it simmer until the meat is quite ten- 
der. This will require about two 
hours and a half. Then remove the 
head; take the meat from the bones; 
skin the tongue, and set away to 
cool. Return the bones to the ket- 
tle, with the vegetables, which have 
been washed and cut fine; as, also, 
the spices and the liver. Simmer 
gently again for two hours, and when 
cool, strain. Set aside to cool, and 
Ttrhen the soup is cold, remove all 
the fat. Put the butter in a sauce-,- 
pan and , melt, adding the flour li^il- 
nicely browned, but be careful got 
to burn it. Then add by degrees the 
boiling soup, stirring constantly. 
Boil, -keeping uj) & gentle istir, for, 
about five minutes. Then add the 
meat of the head and the liver, hav- 
inar first cut them into dice, and bring 
to a boil at once. Take the saucepan 
from the fire, and add the catsup, 
salt, pepper and wine. Slice the 
hard-boiled eggs and the lemon and 
place them in the tureen, and pour 
the soup over them and serve. 

If force-meat balls are desired for 
the soup, prepare them as follows: 



Forc^-Meat Balls. 

Chop a half of a pound of beef or 
veal and chopped chicken about an 
Inch in thickness; add a little of the 
liver and tongue of the calf, a. half 
dozen small onions, one tablespoonful 
of sweet marjoram, one grated nut- 
meg, a teaspoonful each of powdered 
black pepper and mace, and a half, 
teaspoonful of cloves (powdered),' 
three eggs, three grated crackers 
(sifted), half a gill of good sherry 
wine, a tablespoonful of butter and 
two teaspoonfuls of salt; chop up and 
mix thoroughly together. Then roll 
in balls and fry slowly In lard or 
butter. Serve with the soup. 



Mutton Droth. 

Soupe de Mouton. 

8 Pounds of the Neck of the Mutton. 

4 Quarts of Cold Water. Vi Cup ot Bice. 

1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Large Turnips. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the neck of the mutton, or 
wipe it with a damp towel, and put it 
into the kettle with the cold water. 
Let it come to a slow boil and skim 
carefully. Cover well and let it sim- 
mer for about four hours. Then re- 
move from the stove and pour into an 
earthern vessel to cool. When cold, 
remove all the fat from the surface, 
or, better still, remove all the fat 
before boiling. Return to the kettle 
and add the rice, the sliced turnip 
and the bay leaf, and season to taste, 
or prepare as in Oxtail Soup. 

Chicken Broth, 

Bouillon de Volaille. 

To make a good chicken broth for 
invalids, take one good large chick- 
en; clean carefully and cut up, being 
careful to mash all the bones with 
an ax. Place in a saucepan of cold 
water, and let it simmer gently for 
four or five .hours, until it is boiled 
down to about twCk; cups of broth. 
It will have a'i-ich, strong color, and 
this broth, seasoned with a little salt 
Etfid pepper, omitting all vegetables, 
mix be taken by the most delicate 
stomachs. 

Chicken ConBomme. 

Consomme de Volaille. 

1 Large Chicken Cut in Pieces. 

1 Onion. 3 Quarts o£ Cold Water. 

1 Small Stalk of Celery. 

1 Carrot. 1 Turnip. 

Salt and Pepper, 

Put the chicken into the salt and 
wrater and let it simmer gently until 
the scum begins to rise; then skim. 
Add the other ingredients. Boil gen- 
tly for two hours, and serve, with 
slices of toast. The chicken left 
over will serve to make croquettes, 
or chicken salad. Nothing is ever 
wasted in a well regulated house- 
hold. 

Gilt-Bdged Consomme. 

Consomme Dor§. 

1 Fine Chicken. 1 Good Soup Bone. 

1 Slice of Fine Ham. 

1 ftaUoGof Water. 

2 Eggs, whites and shells. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

% Each of Small Parsnip, Carrot and 

Head of Celery. 
1 Onion. 3 Cloves. iSalt and Pc-pper. 

Have the fowl thorouhly cleaned, 
and put the chicken, beef and ham 
into a kettle of cold water of the 
quantity mentioned in the above, and 
boil slowly for five hours, being care- 



18 



ful to keep the pot well covered. 
Chop the onion and vegetables and 
fry them in a little butter, and add 
all the seasonings to the soup. Boil 
two hours longer, and set a'way over- 
night in an ice box. The next day 
remove all the fat; from the top take 
out the jelly, leaving the thickest 
part o£ the sediment, which is good 
to put into a thick soup. Mix in the 
shells and the whites of eggs and 
boil quickly for about ten minutes. 
Then set it on the hearth to settle. 
Pour the soup through a thin bag 
without squeezing; if it does not 
come out perfectly clear, pass it 
through again. It should then be a 
beautiful golden-brown color. Only 
the brightest aiid cleanest of kettles 
should be used, and the sieve should 
be scalded each time to keep the par- 
ticles froin washing back Into the 
soup. This is a delightful soup for 
luncheons and dinner parties. It 
may be garnished according to taste, 
serving with "Croutons," or Que- 
r.elles. No artificial, coloring should 
ever be used, in making the Con- 
sommg DorS. Depend upon the na- 
tural ingredients for the golden- 
brown color so much admired by all 
chefs. , ■__ 

Coii!ioiumg"Wi<ii Poached Bggs. 

Consommg aux Oeufs Pochfis. 

6 Eggs. 
3 Quarts of, Consoujme or Bouillon. 
Break the eggs and drop them one 

by one into boiling salted water, be- 
ing careful not to allow the water 
to boil when once the eggs are in it; 
but have the frying pan, which Is 
always best for poaching eggs, to one 
side of the stove, and cook slowly 
until the eggs are firm. When firm, 
carefully remove with a spoon or 
perforated skimmer, the latter being 
best, and lay in cold water for a mo- 
ment, until the edges are trimmed 
evenly. The boiling water tends to 
make the edges ragged, and eggs 
served in this slovenly manner £^re 
not tempting. Transfer to the tur- 
een and pour the boiling soup very 
gently into the tureen and serve. 
One egg and about a half pint of 
broth should be allowed to each 
person. 

Ciueen Soup. 

Potage a la Reine. 

1 Chicken. 14 Pound of Bice. 

V2 Pint of ■ Cream. 

V4 Blade of Mace, , 1' Sprig of Thyme. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

2 Quarts of White Veal Broth. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Take a fine large chicken, clean it 
nicely and put it whole into a pot 
containing about' five quarts of water. 
Add chopped onion, thyme, bay leaf. 



one carrot, a small bunch of celery, 
and one cup of rice. Let the chicken 
simmer well, for about four hours, 
and, when weU cooked, take out the 
chicken from the broth. Cut off the 
white meat and cut .it into pieces 
about the size of dice. Then strain 
the broth, mashing the . rice well. 
•Make a purfie by taking another 
saucepan, .putting, in one .tablespoon- 
ful of butter and one of fiour, letting 
it melt .together without browning. 
Moisten this well with the soup and 
a glass of milk,, and season with salt 
and pe.,pper., and one-quar.ter of a 
gratedj nutmegv.and add to the broth. 
Then add the chicken, which has been 
cut up. Put in •theture.en little dice 
of croutons of bread fried in butter. 
Pour the soup oyer and serve hot. 
The remainder of the chicken is used' 
to make Chicken Croquettes, Chicken 
Salad, etc. . . 

J Giblet Soijp. 

Pdtage a I'Bssetlpfe de .Gesier. -' ' 

1 Hard-Boiled Yolk for 'Each-Person."" 
" 2i' C-'ps of iJBScken Broth. 

3 Quarts of Boiling Water Or Broth. 
1 'Onion, Carrot and Vi Turnip, chopped. 
-2 Tablespoonfuls of Port or- Madeira "Wine. 
Parsley; ■ :.'■■ 

J \ Jnice of 1 Leffnon. 

1 Leaf^J59ch of Sage and Bay... j.. 
1 T^lespqonful^o^jB'Iour and-1 of Buffer. 
The Giblets, ljearj,,f,iver, etc., of Two i,ur- 
- ..>-j^ .4j£eys[ or TTour Chickens. 
Chop 'the onion fl^ne and^ put it into 
the stcwpan with 'the' butter; let it 
brown, and then-add the chopped veg- 
etables, whole giblets, etc; fry until 
nicely browned; but do not let it 
burn. -Then silt the giblets with a 
knife, that the juices may run out 
in boiling, and put all into- the soup 
■ kettle, with pepper, salt, sage, par- 
sley, and the three quarts of con- 
sommfi or boiling Water. Add bones 
Or lean meat, cooked or raw, that are 
left, preferably the meat of the chick- 
en, and let all simmer for five hours. 
Then strain. Mash o"ne liver fine and 
add it to the broth; season with Ca- 
yenne pepper, lemon juice to taste, 
and two tablespoonfuls of Madeira 
or Port wine. Boil three minutes, 
and have in the tureen one hard- 
boiled yolk of an eg-g for each per- 
son. Pour the soup over it and serve 
hot. 

Rabbit Soup, 

Potage de Lap'in; 

2 young Babbits.' 
2 Quarts of Cold 'Water. 'l Onion. 
• 1 Bay I,eaf. :•.- 
. 1 Blade of ilaee.. 1 , Tablespoontul of Batter. 

Vi Cup of Rice. 
Cajenne Pepper, % Pod. Salt to the Taste. 

This is a famous Creole soup. The 
rabbits should be well skinned and 
singed. Wash thoroughly in warm 



,19 



water; this is. very important. Then 
cut the meat into small' pieces and 
put Into the soup pot, with the quan- 
tity of water given. Chop the onion, 
mace and bay leaf and add. Place on 
a very moderate flre, and let it sim- 
mer gently until the meat has grown 
very tender. This will require about 
two hours. or less. Add the salt, pep- 
per and rice, and sdmmer for an hour 
longer. Pour into the tuseen over 
croutons and-serve. The Creol-es add 
two taWespObnfuls of sherry or port 
wine, thus increasing the delicacy of 
the flavor. " 

iSqnirrel Soup. 

Potage d'E<yjreil. . 

"When squirrels are used the gray 
Louisiana squirrel is best. Venison 
may be substituted for. sCfUi-rrels. 
Prepare as for Rabbit: Sonp. - 



.Pepper Pot,; 

Pot de Poivres. 



/'.. 



.a-iPomid Qt Plain Tripe. 2 Potatoes. 

■t Pound of ■ Honeycomb Tripe. 
Sprig of Parsley.. 1 Knuckle of Veal. 

3 Quarts of Cold Water. ... 



1 Hero Bouquet. 1 Onion. 

2 Teaspo.onfiit^ of Flour. '\ 
2 Tublespoonfals of Butter. '- ■ 
' ' Cayenne to' Suit tiio-Tatite.' 1?^' '-■■'•■' 
Bait anil I'eiJpor. /' ^ . 

The knuckle of the veal, is u best 

for this. Wash and .pijt into the soup 

kettle, covering with, watep ar^d .bring 

it to a slow. boil.'- Carefully skim off 

the-'scum. Let it simmer .gently for 

three, hours.i- The. j tripe- should be 

prepared, th? .^ay ,.■ before, jyash it 

thoroughly in cold water and boil 

.for ab.c>nt sey^n hours. Put. away in 

ttte jce,box:till n.eede^._ ..Chop the par- 

tSley and hqrbs- fine and.; pn;e.-half of 

, the ^r^_d pepper podj and,a4,d.!to the 

bpiling knupkle of xeal, .and. also the 

■ potatoes; which, hg.ve,.,b§ej!», jcut into 

dice. Cut up the tripsi.iinto'. pieces 

of about one inch square. Take out 

the knuckle of: veal;.a,Ti'd cut aap meat 

iato ■' small . pfebes,, and- add"aU; .with 

.the tripe to.the saiip. .-jAt-tiie' boiling 

.poipit, season witoiBa'Wxand' pepper. . 

'''•" TAe.',.Creoles' sfeV-ve'/thls 'gbnp" -With 
■Croil'toris. ■ 'Throw -tMetti 'Into the 
soupi' I'st it slm.tnef' for 'about ten 
minutes, morS and shi'v^:'-- ' ''" 



CHAPTER IV. 



Soupes" d 



SOUPS.' ■•' 

e Poi'ssons.- 



Under this heading come some of 
the most delightful Creole soups, such 
'as Gr6en Turtle Soup, Oyster Soup, 
Crawfish Bisque, etc. These not only 
■'serve as fast-day soups, but are con- 
"sidered elegant introductions to the 
hiost rScherchS feast. 

Fish Soup. 

, Bouillon de Polsson. 

' G Siives of Pish' of Almost Any Variety. 

X '' -'4 Onions, Chopped Fine. 

€>-Tomatoes, Chopped Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet. Sprig of Parsley, 

1 Glass of White' Wine, 

4 Tablespooutuls of Salad Oil. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

3 Pints of Water. 

'ChOjP "the onions and fry them in 
the salad 'oil. Cut the tomatoes fine 
and add' onions, and put in all the 
other ingredients, except the fish, 
adding the fiour to make a good roux. 
"When brown add the water, and, af- 
ter it has boiled about a halt hour, 
add the slices of fish. "When they are 
firm remove the herb bouquetr add 
Cayenne pepper, and salt and: pfirp- 
per to taste, and serve the.fl'shit'SDup 
in a. tureen, pouring it over CTJUSts.'of 
dried toast. - 



Green' Turtle Soup.' 

S-oupe'a.Ja Ijbrtue... 



2 Pounds of Turtle Meat,, or a Z-Pound Turtle. 

Z^'Fiiie Large Onioiis. ' ' C Cloves. 

1 Square inch Of Ham. 'ti Allspice. 

2 ClOTes -Of Garlic. 

2 Tablespoonfuls- ot Flour. 

% -of ti Small Lemon. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

1 Glass ot Sherry .Wine. 

Parsley, Tliyme, .Jiay Leaf. 

iSalt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

The Creoles pride themselves upon 
their, famous "Soupe si la -Tortue," 
and justly; the old saying that only a 
good- Creole cook knows how-to make 
a -good Turtle Sotip being testified to 
by ! epicurean - visitors ' frotii every 
country. -.i '■■•'■' '''•'• 

The following 'is One ''of''the sim- 
plest and best ways of 'tn'aking'' Tur- 
tle Soup — a recipe that 'may-always 
be belied upon and -one that' hSlfe -been 
used from ggneratfSn "to generation 
ill the-'Hiost'aristocrati'c Creole homes: 
-' 1-ri- making Turtle Soup, remember 
that Green Turtle is always the best 
for' this purpose. Select tvo pounds 
of fine Green' Turtle meat, if the tur- 
tle' is not bought whole. This 
amount Will make a soup for six per- 
sons. Increase proportionately. If 



20 



the turtle is bought whole, first cut 
oft the head. To do this properly, 
the turtle should be hung with the 
head downwards, and a very sharp 
knife should be used to cut off the 
head as close as possible. Often for 
hours after this operation is per- 
formed, the turtle will exhibit extra- 
ordinary signs of life, the flesh quiv- 
ering constantly. The old CieOli 
cooks say that a turtle never dies, 
but Liiis is a darky tradition. To re- 
move the shells, first separate the up- 
per from the lower shell, always be- 
ing exceedingly careful to avoid 
touching the gall bladder, which is 
very large. If this bladder is pene- 
trated, the contents running over the 
turtle meat would render it utterly 
unfit for use. 

Clean the turtle and the entrails by 
cutting open and washing thoroughly 
in cold water. Then put the meat 
and entrails into a saucepan and par- 
boil about ten minutes. Be careful to 
save this stock of water. Chop an 
onion very fine, and the ham into 
very fine pieces. Cut the turtle meat 
into one-inch pieces, mash the cloves 
and the allspice very fine and chop 
the thyme and bay leaf. Brown the 
onions in a taWesMonful of butter 
er lard, and add Imnilrtiiafely the tur- 
tle meat. Brown™ together slightly 
and after minutes add the chopped 
ham. Let this' cpfttinue browning- 
and then add twS"" cloves g^' garlic; 
chopped fine, and the thy^ije, bay 
leaf (minced fine), cloves Eyh4 all- 
spice (ground), all mix^d,;fSpgether^ 
and lay on the turtle. Stir^lhis al- 
most constantly to prevent 'burning, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour 
that has been well rubbed, stirring 
constantly all the time. Then dis- 
solve the meat with the water in 
which the turtle was parboiled, add- 
ing gradually until a certain consis- 
tency is reached. About three quarts 
of water will be the required amount. 
Season this with salt, black pepper 
and Cayenne to taste, and boil slowly 
for fully an hour, stirring al-nost 
constantly. After cooking one hour 
taste, and if not seasoned sufficiently 
season again and taste. Then chop 
one-quarter of a small lemon and put 
It in the soup. Let it continue to 
cook, and when well done— that Is 
when no blood exudes from the tur- 
tle after sticking it with a fork- 
pour into the tureen. Add the whites 
and yolks of two hard-boiled esgs 
chopped fine, and one good glass of 
Sherry wine, and the soup Is ready to 
serve. This is a dish fit for a king 
and IS most highly recommended as 
a genuine Creole Turtle Soup 

If Quenelles or Forcemeat BUs 
are desired, they may be prepared 
according to the recipe given under 



the heading "Quenelles." (See re- 
cipe, under chapter "StuflSngs and 
Dressings," etc.) 

Turtle Sonp No. 2. 

Soupe a, la Tortue. 

2 Pounds of Turtle Meat. 

% Tablespoonful of Lard. 

14 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Tomatoes. 1 Large Onion. 

1 Sprig of Tbyme. 2 Sprigs of Parsley 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clora of Garlic. 

1 Square Incb of Ham. 
1 Dozen Cloves Tied In JIusIin. 
6 Allspice Mashed Fine. 
3 Quarts of Water. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

1 Glass of Sherry or White Wine. 
Salt and Ca.^enne to laste. 
Clean the turtle and entrails bjr 
cutting open the latter and washing 
thoroughly in cold water. The:i 
put the meat and entrails Into a 
saucepan and parboil them for ten 
minutes. Carefully save this stock 
of water. Chop the onion very fine, 
and cut the ham into very fine pieces. 
Cut the turtle meat Into one-inch 
pieces; mash the allspice very fine, 
and mince the parsley, thyme and 
bay leaf. Then brown the onions in 
the lard and Ijutter. mixed,, and. almost 
Infrifediately add the turtle' meat. 
Brown together for ten minutes and 
add the finely chopped ham. As 
this continues to brown, add the 
cloves of garlic, (minced flne)^ the 
thyme and bay leaf and the ground 
allspice. Mix all together, stirring 
almost constantly to prevent burn- 
ing. Then add the weU>-rubbed table-- 
spoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly. 
Scaldii^nd skin the toi&toes and chop 
them fine, and add to the turtle meat. 
When well-browned, pour over three 
quarts of the water In which the tur- 
tle was parboiled, season with salt 
and pepper and Cayenne to taste, anJ 
let it boil slowly for fully an hour, 
stirring frequently. After one hour, 
taste the soup, and, if not sufficiently 
seasoned, add seasoning of salt, pep- 
per and Cayenne again, according to 
taste. Let it cook for an hour longer 
and then take off the stove if the tur- 
tle IS thoroughly done. This may be 
ascertained by sticking it with a 
fork. If no blood exudes, the soup 
IS ready to serve. Take off the stove 
and strain through a colander Into 
the tureen. Add the wiiues and yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, 
and one good glass of Sherry or 
White Wine. Slice a lemon fine and 
add to the soup and serve hot. 

How to Serve Turtle Sonp. 

(^^''fu* '^^"^ should be taken In serv- 

mmd that boiling the soup a second 
time, or warming it over, deprives It 
Of much Of its delicious Sr To 
avoid this, mi.two tureens wUhbon- 



21 



ing water; let them stand a few min- 
utes, then dry the inside thoroughly 
and place the tureens in a "bain- 
marie," or a hot-water bath. Fill 
the tureens with the soup and cover 
tightly. Bring them to the table as 
needed, throwing in Just before serv- 
ing, some dainty slices of lemon. It 
the meat is served, use only the most 
delicate portions. 

1 

Mock EgKs for Turtle Soup. . , 

Should the turtle possess no eggs, 
the following method of making 
mock eggs is often used. Break and 
beat thoroughly one fresh egg; then 
take the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs, and rub them into a fine paste 
with about a teaspoontul of butter. 
Mix this with the raw egg and roll 
into pellets of the identical size and 
shape of the turtle eggs, let them He 
in boiling water about two minutes, 
and then drop into the soup. 

Terrapin Soup. 

Soupe a. la Tortue. 

1 Two-Ponnd Diamoad-Back Terrapin. 

2 Fine Large Onions. 6 ClOTes. 
1 Square Inch of Ham. 6 Allspice. 
^ of a Small Iiemon. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 
-:. 1 Glass ot Sherry Wine. 

Parsle.r, Thyme aiid Bay Leaf. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Remember always that the land 
terrapin is unfit to eat. The fre^sjjr 
water -t^i*apin cari'''"*Sfe^mad«''- into a 
most relishable article of food if 
cooked according to Creole methods. 
The diamond-back terrapin is the 
bbest and the females make the finest 
•and daintiest food, the males being 
not only of inferior size, but of far 
less delicate flavor. Terrapins must 
always be bought alive. They are in 
season from November till March, 
and, like all other fish, should not 
be eaten out of season. The red leg 
Or fresh-water terrapin, or the ter- 
rapin of common variety, called 
"Gopher," are eschewed by the Cre- 
oles, but are good to eat. To have a 
good terfapin soup th& diamond back 
must be used. 

To make the soup, clean the terra- 
pin as you would a turtle. Then 
place in a kettle and boil till tender. 
Take out and cut Into small pieces, 
saving the water. Proceed as for 
Turtle Soup. When it boils up take 
from the fire, add a grated nutmeg, 
a glass of Sherry or Madeira wine 
and serve. The fare! or forcemeat 
balls is made in exactly the same 
manner as for Turtle Soup. Serve 
with green pickle and delicate slices 
. of fried toast. 



CrawfiHh Bisque. 

Potage a, la Bisque d'Bcrevisse. 

8 Dozen Fine Large Crawfish. 

3 Onions. 1 Carrot. 1 Bunch of Celery. 

2 Spiigs ot Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

4 Sprigp jf I'nrsley. 6 Cloves. 

2 Blades of Mace. j 1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Liquor. 

A Dash ot Cayenne. 1 Seedless Cayenne Tod. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

k>rawflsh Bisque is a distinctive 
Creole luxury. It is prepared as fol- 
lows: 

Take about eight dozen fine, large 
crawfish and wash thoroughly, being 
careful to cleanse of every particle 
of dust or sand. Set to boil in about 
a gallon of water. "When boiled, take 
the fish out of the water; save the 
water. Pick out two dozen ot the 
largest crawfish; pick out the inside 
of the tails and save the heads, clean- 
sing them of every particle of meat. 
Set this meat to one side with the 
shells of the head. Pick the meat 
from the rest of the crawfish, saving 
all the shells. Take one large onion, 
a carrot, a bunch of celery, a sprig ot 
thyme, one bay leaf, three sprigs ot 
parsley, six cloves and two blades of 
mace, one clove of garlic; chop all 
very fine and put into the pot of wa- 
ter in which the crawfish were boiled. 
Add all the picked meat, except the 
reserved tails, and all the shells 
of the bodies and heads, except 
the reserved heads. Add one 

cup of rice and let it all boil 
tiU 'the mixture becomes thick and 
wnishy. -"When it Is well cooked, take 
it oft the Are and mash the sheila 
thoroughly, and the meat also, and 
strain all through a sieve. Take 
about a tablespoonful of butter and 
two quarts of oyster liquor and add 
this to the soup, seasoning to taste 
with Cayenne, salt and black pepper. 
Set to boil slowly. In the meantime, 
take the reserved crawfish ment and 
make a stuffing as follows for the 
reserve heads; chop an onion very 
fine and let it brown in a tablespoon- 
ful ot butter. Squeeze thoroughly a 
cup of breacj wet with water. When 
well squeezed, mix with a little milk, 
sufficient to make a paste, season to 
taste and mix with the well-seasoned 
crawfish meat. Chop another onion 
and put in melted butter, and add the 
crawfish stuflUng. letting all fry about 
ten minutes, adding. In the meantime, 
a finely-chopped sprig each ot thyme 
and parsley and a bay leaf, and mix- 
ing thoroughly. Take off the fire 
and stuff the reserved head of craw- 
fish. Put on every stuffed head a dot 
of butter, and set In the oven and 
bake ten minutes. Place the stuffed 
heads In the tureen and pour the 
soup over. Serve hot with CroQtons 



22 



of buttered' toast, passing the latter 
in a sep.arate /I'Sh. i 

' CrawiftisU Soup. 

pQtage d'fiQrevisses. 

60 Prne, Large Crawflsb. 

IM Pouiids o£ a Fillet of Veal. 

1 Slice ()£ Ham. 

1 Herb Bouquet. - 1 Halt Can" of Mushrooms. 

2 Tablespoon Culs of Klour. 

2 Carrots. 1 Talilespoonful of Butter. 

1 Clove,. o£,pailic. U-arge O.nion. 1 Parsnip. 

1 D,ozeh Almonds. 1 t)ozen Allspice. - .' 

4 Shallots-.' 6 Tomatoes or a Half Can. . 

Croutons. 

Wash the tr^Wflsh thoroughly Aver 
and-,,over''a^ain to take a.way every 
particle'' of dust. "Then l)6il them in 
plain Water. S'av^" the water. Take 
out't.he ctawfisli 'and take off a.ll the ' 
shells, ■ putting the meat aside. 
Pound the. shells, fine; pouijd one doz- 
en almonds flSe^jand mix thoroughly 
with 'the meat of thfe crawfish, and, 
pound, this in a mortar, In the 
meanwhile, talte one pouhdahd a lia.l| 
of a fllSt [Of vfeal aup'ra ^j'Tpe of ba.^t 
and cut -in smaYl pieces. '"Cut up,..tiie 
onion^ 'carrots and parsnips. Put' one 
tablespoonful of lard in a kettle, and 
wheh'it ?^egins to heat, add the herb 
bouquet (sweet basil, parsley; ' bay 
leaf), the onions, jigirsnip, shallots," 
clove of garlic, chopped fine; as these 
brown, add the veal' and ham. Add 
two tablespoonfiiis of floiir g,nd butter, 
rubbed, and the mushrooms, chopped 
finely. Let these simmer' for about 
five minutes and then add the to- 
matoes, allspice and cloves. After 
ten minutes, when the ' mixture is 
well browned, add the pounded craw- 
fish shells and the pounded meat and 
almonds. Pour over all the water 
from the boiled crawfish and set it 
back on the stove and let it simmer 
for about two hours. Skim off all 
the' grease when near time for serv- 
ing. -Then strain through a sieve, 
and serve with Croflfons of toast, out 
in"slices, placed' In the bott,o.Ti Of the 
tureen. ■"•■•: ■ ■ i' .■ 

On fast, ■ days, instead' of . <the ' -Wral' 
and ham, sbljstitute butten-'and lard,' 
making,, a" Roux (see", ceolpe), and 
moistening a little with the stock of 
the crawfish. T*hen proceed as above 

Rice or Cl^oQton sdiiiJ is rendered 
delicious by ' introdticing' ■ a small' 
quantity of the broth of the craw- 
fish. The broth is also used exten- 
sively by the Creoles in seasoning 
ragoflts on fast days, and hot pies, 
such as pates de foies gras; also 
such entremets as caulifio-wer, arti- 
chokes, etc. The chief 'essential in 
making the broth is to ' h'av^ it -'of 
the right consistency, aiid to skim 
carefully of all ; the" gfeasi before 
sti-aining. Go6d jud^iiient must "be' 
the guide of the co'ok in s'eeking' the 
proper cbrisistency. 



byster Soup. 

Soupe aux Jrl'ultre's. - " ''• , 

4 Dozen, Larse, Fresh O.TSters, ; , 

1 Quart of" KIch Milk. The Oyster Liquor,; 

1 Tablespoonful of Bptter. , 

3 Sprigs of I'arslej-, Chopped Fine.' 

1 Dozen Pepper Corns. ■ 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

In purchasing the oysters always 
be careful to make the vendor add 
the oyster juice when intended for 
soup. In making good oyster soup 
the Creoles never use any water,, but 
the liquor from the oysters. Drain 
the oysters through a colander and' 
set them over the ice box tor.kgep 
fresh and cold. Strain tJje liquor, 
and put it into a soup kettle, adding 
tne chopper parsley and, the .pepper- 
corns. Let it come to a boil. ,Iij the. 
meantime, boil the milk separately in 
a saucepan, as boiling the • yn^lk and 
oyster juice together is. ^ likely, to 
curdle the milk. . "When the milk 
comes to a boil, add to the oyster 
juice and put in the tablespoonful of 
butter. Some thicken the soup by 
adding a tablespoonful of corn starch, 
rubbing it int'd' the flour- before put- 
ting it in the soup. But this , is a 
matter of taste. If the iiiilk is rich 
and good, the soup will require no 
thickening, and is far. daintier with- 
out it. Stir the soup constantly" at 
this point, throwing in- the' oysters 
and continuing to stir until It comes 
to a boil again. Under no circum- 
stances allow the oysters to boil, as 
that destroys their flavor and makes 
them tough and indigestible. But 
one must be also careful, to see that 
they are steamed throug-h' and' 
through, and then they are deligihtiful' 
and pal-alable. The crowrcinfe ta-fc' 
umphl in making oyster soup is "to 
have the oysters cooked j«st enough.. 
The ruffling of the edges ■ indicates' 
the right condition; at. th is • point the' 
soup must be ser-\red,-.;:immedia:telj!.: 
Serve '-/svith sliced lenlon :anid oys'ter=. 
ox .wafteir cr-ackers. .- SomefaddpAilittlB' 
nutmisg, and mace;; ■and,, Jstillf. flfgaini'' 
some Creoles ,.plat;e ichopp.sdn'Cel'BrjS) 
in exceedingly small >quTmtitles, iaijdT 
a herb bouquet Into the* oyster jmefe, 
being careful to aliow it to i give just 
the desired flavor; and taking it out 
before adding the milk. ■ But this, 
too, is a matter of taste.- Made .-ac- 
cording to the: above -formula., oysteri 
soup is a most delightful dish jahdi 
can be eaten and relished /.hy tlie 
most delicate stomachs.-^ .' ^ cii'/i-.a 
- -"/,' ■'■ — rr^T 

Oyster, Soup Without Milk, ,r.,, 

S,bup? au'x' lluitres a la Cir.^oXe.''. ,'] 
The Creoles have" another, d'ft'lishtr!, 
ful methj}^ of p'veparihg oyster.' n'o'dvu' 
a methoct'ev'ol-s^ed by the pld negro 
cooks of ante-b.eUum dajfs, and stl'lf 
in vogue in the ancient families. 



23 



It Is a eoup made witHouf milk and 
Is prepared as follows: ' Take ' 

4 Dozen BayoUj.Cook Oysters. 

The Oyster Xlquor. 

1 Large Onion. . 1 'Tablespoonful of Lard, 

■ ■ 2 Tablespoonfuls ol Siltea Flour. 
4 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Tatilespdonful o£ Butter. 
1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

Put the tablespoonful of lard into 
the soup kettle. Have ready one on- 
ion, some parsley, chopped very fine. 
When the lard is hot, stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, and 
make a Brown Eoux (see recipe), 
stirring coiistantl-y to prevent, burn- 
ing. Wherl. the .' Roux, is ot a light 
brown color,' add the chopped onions 
and parsley, continulrig to stir, being 
exceedingly careful to avoid the sem- 
blance of burning. Strain the oys- 
ter juice of about-four dozen oysters 
into the Roux, mixing .thoroughly, 
to avoid bits of shell; mix with about 
a quart of boilings water :and pour 
Wh-en it shows -signs.- of coming to a 
boil, add the oysters and a teaspoon- 
ful of butter. At the boiling point 
remove from. tk;e ■stove aiKd serve with 
oyster soda, qraxskerg. or' dry toast, 
the oyster craokersrtbsing always pre- 
ferable. ' .'.r; : :.'' 

This form of sjouprma-y be improved 
by usiag.. the. .milk ins'teadol the hot 
Di.ater, but neither isteSK'JS) very, pal- 
. ... ■.-. ..it* ui' 



atable and a great favorite as a 
fast-day soup. 

Crab Soup. 

Potage de Crabes. 

1 Dozen Fine Crabs. 6 Hlpe Tomatoes. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 of Sweet Marjoram. 

1 Largo Onion. 1 Clove^of Garlic. 

. 1 Tcaspoonful of B'uft^i^' 

2 Tablespoonfuls (level) of Lai'fl'. 

1 Lemon. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayegue. 

Cleanse the crabs thoroughly and 
extract, all the meat ffom the body 
and claws; sca)d and skin the toma- 
toes, and squeeze, the pulp from the 
seeds and juice; cl^op very fine. Pour 
boiling water over- the seed and juice 
and strain. Chop the^oniort and gar- 
lic and stew with the' tablespoonful 
of butter and lard.. 'A's they begin 
to brown, add the tdm&.to'es, cover, 
and, after simmering k few miftutes, 
add the well-seasoned meat' of the - 
crab. Sift oyer this s6me grated 
bread or crackers and season with 
Cayenne, sweet marjoram and thyme. 
Pour in tomS,to w'ater and- add about 
a quart or more' 6f water,' arid let it. 
boil mo'derately for about an hour. 
Add the juic^' bf two.' lenibiis a:nd 
serve." '■ ' ■''' 



;/.J?ttrn. 



CHAPTER V. 



htillEXTEN 



SOUPS. 



Totaiies Maigres. 



The Creoles excel in th.e, prepara- 
tion of soups, T^jt^put meat,, or,, fast- 
day soups, as'',0_^.y, -are. called,. ' The 
ingenuity of '.flie co.ojcs frQ.-n...^ei>era- 
tipn to genftijatf^'p hav.e been ^^.xed In 
the preparafioh 'o.f these soups,, which 
are in great vogue during the Lenten 
season. But many of them, such as 
"Cream of Asparagus Soup," "Cream 
of Celery Sou"p',''',;hg.vf,j jjntered^ into 
the daily life ,of ,'^|ie q^ty, .and,,' .like 
tlis famous Cr,eple Gumbos,"are held- 
as.- dainty .and, 'elegant introductions 
to, the most distinguished feasts. 

.The nutritive, valu«,- of the soups 
without meat cannot be overestimated 
especially thos^r piade with red or 
. white beans,, lentils,, corn, and other 
vegetables,. ., whiose.! -.health-giving 
properties Vape ..beyorid/ -disput^. TO;. 
the. poor e.sp?ci^U3r.,th«y :are TeooniT. 
mended, B0t';^|0iiiliy .oinnthe score of 
economy, but of health as well. 



Fast-Day Pfrotli. 

Bouillon iiiiigre. 

6 Fine Carrots.' 6 Large White Onions. 

G Turuiiis. 

% Pound of Beans or Dried Split Peas. 

1 iSmall Head of Cabbage. 1 ■ Parsnip. 

1 Stalk of Celery. 

4 Sprigs of I'arsleyi- 

% Pound of Butter, or 1 Large Tablespoonful 

ot -.Lard. 

3 'Quarts of Watei'." 

1 Red Popper Pod, Without the Seed. 

Salt and;.Pepperrlo Taste. 

Peel and cut into fine, thin slices 

the oarrot^j, turnips and parsnips; cut 
and chop 'iin&.thgt.Qabbage, celery and 
onions; put.aJl ^'^ ^ saucepan and add 
one glass. o-f5water,. and a quarter of 
a pound of: tiutter, using. the butter 
pr^eyably . to -the lard; add the par- 
sley, chopped very fine; L.et all boil 
till the water has evaporated, and 



2* 



then add one pint of red or white 
beans or split peas, wliich have been 
soalced overnight; add three quarts of 
v/ater and the pepper pfid, and; let, 
all simmer well for three hours. Then 
if the beans are perfectly tender at 
this point, drain or press through a 
colander; return to the fire and add 
the seasonings. Let all bjil up once 
and then serve with Crofltons. Stali 
bread may be utilized in preparing 
the Croutons. A more nutritious 
soup than this cannot be prepared. 

A Summer Fnst-Day Soup. 

Potagre Maigre d'fitfe. 

The Hearts of 6 Lettuce Cut in Pieces. 

2 Large Onions. 

2 Cuc'imbers, Pared and Sliced. 

4 Pinta of Young Green Peas. 

Chopped Parsley. 

3 Lumps of Crushed Sugar. 

V4 Pound of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Chop the vegetables fine and stew 
all together, except the young peas. 
After one hour add the young peas. 
Press tliem through a sigye and p^ 
tulW" all into the watef' in . which 
they have been boiled. Add to this 
the vegetables that have been stewed 
in the butter and simmer about an 
hour and a half. A sprig of mint is 
addeff just before the soup Is taken 
off the fire. This Is a most excellent 
and nsuTtstrfss' soup and is reeom- 
mended to the families of the poor. 

A Winter Fnat-Day Sonp. 

Potage Maigre d'Hiver. 

1 Quart of Dried Peas. 

3 Quarts of Water. 1 Lettuce, Sliced. 

1 Head of Celery. 

1 Carrot. 2 Turnips. 2 Lar^e Onions. 

Handful of Spinacli. 

Sprig Each of Mint, Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Baj Leaf. 

A Tableapoonful of Butter. 

Stew all the vegetables, except the 

lettuce, together, after having 

chopped fine, until thejr"4re perfectly 

soft. Then- return to tlie fire with 

the chopped lettuce, bu:t(^ and sugar. 

Boil quickly about twetfty minutes, 

and serve with Crofltons. 

Vegetable Soap Without Meat. 

Puree de LiSgumes. 

1 Sweet Potato. 1 Bunch of Celery Leaves. 

1 Turnip. 1 Parenlp. 

1 Carrot. 1 Bay Leaf. 2 Onions. 

Sprig of Parsley and Thyme. 

I Irlah Potato. 

2 Tablespoonfula of Tlour. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

S^, Quarts of Cold Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the vegetables Into dice and 

boil until thoroughly tender in about 

three and a halt quarts of water; 

this will require about two hours. 



Then press the whole through a seve; 
add the remaining water and bring 
to a boil. Then add the butter, 
rubbed smooth with the flour in a 
little rich__ cream, or a little of the 
hot soup. A gill of cream or milk 
added just before serving increases 
the flavor. Boil and stir about two 
or three minutes more and servo. 

Lenttl Soup. 

Potage a. Purge de Lsntilles. 

1 Pint of Lentils. 2 Quarts of Water. 

1 Culm. 1 Small Bunch of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Lard. 

1 Pod of Bed Pepper, Without the Seeds. 

1 Stalk of Celery, Chopped Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the lentils, and, IE dried, 
soak them over night. Drain oft the 
water and put them In a saucepan 
with the cold water. Allow them to 
come gradually to a boil. Then set 
them back on the stove and 
let them simmer gently for 
, about ' two hours. Melt the 

butter in "the saucepan and fry 
in it the minced onion, celery, par- 
sley, thyme and bay leaf, and let 
these brown; then add them to the 
lentils; boil about an hour longer, 
and, if particularly tender, press all 
through a colander. Return to the 
fire and add the seastnrfngs. l>et 
them boil up once and serve witli 
Crofltons. 

Lentils are used constantly by the 
poorer class of Creoles, but they 
onght to be more gen,evaAly used by 
all classes of people. The above soup 
is very palatable and most nourish- 
ing. As an illustration of the nutri- 
tive value of "legumes," as lentils, 
beans and peas are generally called, 
during the Franco-Prussian war the 
Germans, who learned much from the 
French as regards food values, sup- 
plied the German soldiers with a 
kind of sausage called "Erbswurst;" 
this was made of peasmeal and len- 
tils, or the condensed soup mixed 
with a certain proportion of lard or 
bacon, onions, etc., and dried so as 
to be portable. Each sausage was 
a pound In weight, and one consti- 
tuted the ration of a soldier. It was 
easily cooked by boiling in water, or 
it could be eaten cold. This instance 
is given in the hope that, through 
this Cook Book, people mav learn 
how to cook not only palatably and 
well, but also how to live, selecting 
such foods as will give the greatest 
amount of nutriment in proportion to 
the quantity consumed. Lentils, 
peas and beans have been found by 
scientific experiment to possess a 
greater nutritive value than all other 
vegetable foods, since they contain 
more nitrogen than any of the cereals 



and are as rich in carbon as wheateii 
flour. 

Red Bean Soup. 
Pur§ a la CondS. 

1 Pint of Red Eeims. 
2 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Minced Onion. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Bay Leaf. 
Bunch of Parsley. Sprig of Thyme. 

Salt and Pepper. 
"Wash the beans and soak them 
Overnight in lukewarm water. Drain 
and put them in a saucepan with the 
cold water. Allow them to come 
gradually to a boil; then set them 
back, and let them simmer gently for 
about two hours. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan and fry in it the onion, 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf until 
brown. Add these to the beans and 
boil about an hour and a half longer. 
If the beans are perfectly tender at 
this point, press the whole through 
a colander. Return to the fire, and 
add the seasonings. Let them boil 
up once and serve with the CroQtons. 
Some think that the flavor is en- 
hanced by beating up an egg in the 
tureen and pouring the boiling soup 
gradually over it, stirring constantly. 
This soup should always be served 
with Crofltons. 

White Benn Soup. 

Potage a la Purfie d'Haricots. 

1 Pint of White Beans. 
2 Quarts of Cold Water. 
1 Minced Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Bay Leaf. Bunch of Parsley. 

Sprig of Thyme. 
Salt and Pepper. 
Wash the beans and soak them 
overnight in lukewarm water. Drain 
and put them in a saucepan with the 
cold water. Allow them to come 
gradually to a boil; then set them 
back and let them simmer gently for 
about two hours. Meli the butter in 
a saucepan and fry in it the onion, 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf until 
brown. Add these to the beans and 
boil about an hour and a half longer. 
If the beans are perfectly tender at 
this point, press the whole through 
a colander. Return to the Are and 
add the seasonings. Let them boil 
up once and then serve with the 
Crofltons. As in Red Bean Soup, a 
beaten egg may be added when about 
to pour into the tureen. First beat 
up the egg and pour the boiling soup 
gradually over, stirring all the while. 

Dried or Spilt Pea Soup, 

Potage a la Purge de Pois Sees. 

1 Pint of Dried or Split Peas. 

1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

1 Small Bunch of Celery. IBunch of Parsley. 

1 Quart of Good Milk or Cream. 

2 Onions. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 



It is always best to soak the peas 
overnight, after washing them in cold 
water and rejecting all that float. In 
the morning drain off the water and 
cover the peas again with one quart 
of boiling water, setting them back 
on the stove and letting them cook 
slowly until tender. Cut up the on- 
ion and parsley and celery into 
fine pieces and add to the 
boiling peas. When perfectly 

tender remove from the stove 
and press through a sieve or colan- 
der and add the salt and pepper. 
Then return the soup to the Are 
and let it boil up once; just before 
serving add the rich cream or milk, 
stirring well. The soup should be 
served with Crofltons or Oyster 
Crackers. White Bean Soup may be 
made in exactly the same manner. 
When not intended for fast days, 
the addition of a ham bone adds 
greatly to the flavor. 

Pur6e of Green Peas. 

Purge de Pois Verts. 

1 Quart of Young Green Peas. 
Bunch of Parsley. 2 Young Onions. 

2 Quarts of Good Milk or Broth. 

Pepper and Salt. 
Cut the onions and parsley flne, 
and boil with the peas until all are 
quite tender, in boiling water, for 
about a half hour. Then drain. Rub 
all through a sieve or colander, and 
add them to the boiling broth or 
milk. Do not allow this to boil 
after adding the peas. Season and 
serve with dainty Croutons. To 
keep hot, stand the soup on a "bain- 
marie," or kettle of boiling water. 

Sorrel Soup. 

Potage a. la "Bonne Femme," ou 

Soupe 3. rOiselle. 
A Small Bunch of Fresh Sorrel. 

3 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1 Cup of Cream or Rich Milk. 

1 Cup of Mashed Potatoes. 

4 Eggs. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

3 Leaves of Lettuce. 1 Oniou. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. A Pinch of Nutmeg. 

Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Sorrel Soup, or Soupe a I'Oiselle, 
is a popular Creole soup much prized 
for its cooling properties. The In- 
dians gather near Bayou Lacombe 
the sorrel and^bring it to New Or- 
leans and sell it in the French Mar- 
ket. It is also grown in the home 
garden by many Creoles. The leaves 
only are used in making soup or 
purges. 

Wash the leaves and stem them, 
the entire length of the leaf. Then 
chop them flne until you have . a 
quantity equal to a pint or two tea- 
cupfuls. Chop the other vegetables 
and put these and the sorrel into a 
saucepan with the butter; cover and 



26 



let them stew gently £or ten minutes; 
and then add the flour, which has 
been well mixed with a, little water. 
Pour gradually, stirring always, into 
the tl,i-ee quarts of boiling water. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and mix 
with a little cream or milk in a 
tureen. Rub the rest of the cream 
of milk smooth with the mashed po- 
tato and put into the soup; add the 
seasonings. Prepare toast in the 
form of dice, rubbing them first 
"With the raw onion, and pour some 
of the boiling soup over the eggs in 
the tureen and mix very carefully. 
Put in the pieces of toast, and then 
add the remainder of the soup. Cover 
and stand five minutes in a warm 
oven, and serve hot. 

Potato Soup, 

Potage Parraentier. 

8 Potatoes. 2 Onions, Cut Fine. 

1 Cup of Cream or Rich llilk. 

1 Pincli of Grated Nutmjeg. 

1 TailespoontuI of Butter. Pepper and Salt. 

After washing and peeling the po- 
tatoes, put them into a saucepan 
with the onions and add about two 
quarts of cold water. Bring to a 
boil. After allowing to cook abDut 
forty minutes, if the vegetables are 
then very tender, mash and pass all 
through a sieve, and, returning to 
the Are, add the seasoning and but- 
ter. Bring to a boil, and add the 
cream and a beaten egg, serving im- 
mediately with Crotltons. 

Carrot Sonp, 

Potage Crecy. 

4 Large Carrots (tbe redder the better). 

2 Large Onions, Cut Fine. 

1 Quart of New Milk. I Turnip. 

1 Teaspoon of Corn Starcli. 

2 Sticks of Celery. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Sprig of Tliyme. Sprig of Parsley. 

3 Cloves. 

1 Large Teaspoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper and Sugar tn Taste. 
Wash the vegetables thoroughly, 
cutting them fine and bailing until 
tender in three pints of water. Wiie;! 
very soft, mash them and vress 
through a sieve. The cnrrots must 
be mashed very fine. Then return to 
the fire, and, adding about two ciuarcs 
of boiling water, cover and simmer 
gently for a while, adding one tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch that has been 
blended well with a little milk. Add 
the boiling milk and cook for about 
two minutes more, and serve wiLli 
Croatons. (See recipe.) 

Lettuce Soup, 

Potage de Laitues. 

1 Large Head of Lettuce. 

1 Spoon of French Vinegar. 1 Egir. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Gill of Cream. 

1 Teaspoonful of Flour. 

Dices of Stale Bread. 1 Pinch of Sugar. 

3 Quarts of Broth. 



Prepare a good broth and cook till 
it is reduced to three pints; this will 
serve six persons. Chop the lettuce 
fine and stew it with a tablespoonful 
of butter, adding the pinch of sugar 
and one spoon of French vinegar. 
Keep stirring constantly, so that it 
will not burn. Then add the flour 
(which has been rolled smoothly in 
butter), the pepper and salt, throw in 
a dash of Cayenne pepper. Break in 
the egg and stir thoroughly. Then 
pour on the broth. Place the dice 
of bread in the tureen, and add the 
gill of cream to the soup before 
pouring over the bread. 

Okra Sonp. 

Potage de F6vi. 
2 Pints of Olira, or Fifty Counted. 
G Fresh Tomatoes. 2 Onions Chopped Flue. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
3 Sprigs of Parsley. 
2 Sprigs of Thyme. 1 Bay Loaf. 
3 Quarts of Water. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Red Pepper Pod, Without the Seed. 
Wash and stem the okra and then 
slice it very fine. Chop the toma- 
toes fine, being careful to preserve 
the juice. Chop the onions fine and 
fry -them in the butter. Then add 
the chopped thyme, bay leaf, parsley 
and tomatoes and the pepper pod, 
and, after letting it stew about five 
minutes, add the okra, stirring con- 
stantly almost, as it burns quickly. 
When well browned, add the juice of 
the tomatoes. Then add the hot wa- 
ter, and set on the back of the stove 
and let it simmer "well for about an 
hour and a half. Season to taste 
and serve hot, with Croutons. 

N. B. — The housekeeper should al- 
ways remember that okra must be 
cooked in a porcelain-lined pot, as 
iron or other metal tends to blacken 
it. 

Winter Okra Soup. 

Potage F6vi d'Hiver. 

1 Can of Good New Orleans Olira. 

1 Can of Tomatoes. 2 Onions Chopped Fine. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Rice. 

A Red Pepper Pod, Without the Seed. 

Chop the onions fine and fry theni 
in the butter. Wash the rice well, 
then stew the onions, tomatoes an,l 
pepper together in about three quarts 
of water and one pint of oyster water 
for about three hours, stirring fre- 
quently. Ten minutes before serving 
add the okra and let it come to a 
boil. Then drop in the oysters. Boil 
up once and serve. 

Onion Soup. 

Potage &, rOgnon. 

3 Large Onions. Sliced Very Thin or Chopped. 

V4 Cup of Flour. 

1 Large Spoon of Butter. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

2 Large Potatoes, Mashed Fine. 

Dice of Bread or Toast. 

Salt and Pepper. 



27 



Pry the onions in the butter, until 
reddish brown. Then add the flour 
and stir until browned, gently; do 
not burn. Put the boiling water In 
gradually, stirring perfectly smooth, 
and adding the salt and pepper; mix 
well and boil one minute. Tlien pour 
it into the kettle and set back. Be- 
fore serving, add the milk warmed, 
and rubbed with mashed potatoes 
until they are a smooth paste. Sim- 
mer a few moments. Have the pieces 
of toast ready in the tureen and pour 
in the hot soup. A pur€e of onions 
is made by pressing the ingredients 
through a sieve and returning to 
the Are for a few moments. Servo 
hot. 

Cream of Onion Soup. 

Purge d'Ognons. 

6 Onions. % Ounce of Batter. 
1% Pints of Cream. 2 Ounces of Flour. 

2 Pints of Boiling Water. 
Pepper. Kutmeg. 

Peel the onions and boil In salted 
water until very tender; then drain 
and dry well with a cloth; put them 
on the fire in a saucepan, with one 
ounce of butter; add the other in- 
gredients, except the remaining half 
ounce of butter. When the soup 
comes to a boil, press tiirough the 
sieve, and return to the fire; add the 
remainder of the butter and serve. 
This is a very delicately flavored soup 
for fast days. 

Cream of Tomato Soap. 

Potage aux Tomates. 

2 Quarts of Pure Tomoto Julco. 

1 Gill ot Rice. 3 Onions. 8 Allspice. 

4 Cloves. A Sprig ot Thyme. 

A Pinch ot Sugar to Taste. 

Pepper and Salt. 

Stew the Tomatoes for about two 

hours, and then extract the Juice. 

Add the other ingredients, and boil 

for about an hour and a half; then 

strain. The rice, being creamy, 

should now make the soup as thick 

as cream. Serve with CroQtons or 

Quenelles. (See recipe). 

In the summertime, when tomatoes 
are so plentiful in New Orleans, this 
is not only one of the most delightful 
but one of the least extravagant 
cream soups that can be made. 

Cream of Celery Soup, 

Potage a. la Cr^me de Celeri. 

Celery Stalks. 2 Qnarts ot Milk or Cream. 

2 Tablespoonfnls of Flour. 

1 Pint of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

^ Small Onion. 

Salt a.nd Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the celery and onion and cut 

into fine pieces. Then place them in 

a porcelain-lined saucepan and let 

boil for about a half hour. Take off 

and mash, and press through a colan- 



der. Set the milk to boil in a fa- 
rina boiler, and as it heats well, adii 
to it the water and celery that have 
been pressed. Rub smoothly to- 
gether the, flour and butter, and then 
stir into the boiling soup, stirring 
constantly till it thickens to a cream 
of the right consistency. Add salt 
and pepper to taste and serve hot. It 
is very delicious served with slices 
■of delicately toasted and buttered 
Crofltons. Serve on a separate dis!> 
and garnish with sprigs of parsley 
and slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Potage a, la CrSme de Mais. 

2 Pints of Grated Corn. 
i Qnarts ot Boiling Water. 
1 Pint of Hot Milk or Cream. 
3 Tablespoon tuls ot Butter. 

2 Level Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

The Yolks of 2 Kggs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Slit the corn in two and grate 
from the cobs. Put the cobs into tha 
boiling water and let them boil slow- 
ly about an hour, till the water is 
reduced to three quarts. Then take 
the cobs out and drain over the ket- 
tle. Add the corn an^a let it boil till ' 
very soft. This will require about 
thirty minutes. Take the soup off 
and press all through a sieve. Sea- 
son highly and set back to simmer 
gently, adding, in- the meanwhll?, 
the flour and butter, thoroughly 
rubbed together. Stir constantly till 
the soup thickens, and then add the 
boiling milk. Cook a moment only, 
take off the fire, stir in tiie beaten 
yolks and serve hot. with buttered 
toast cut in dice shape. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup, 

Cr^me d'Asperges. 

1 Large Bnncb of Asparagus. 
1 Tablespoontjl ot Butter. 1 Qnait ot Milk. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Rich Cream. 
2 Eveu Table.'ipoonfuls of Flour or 

Corn Starch. 
. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the Asparagus, tie it in a 
bunch and put in a saucepan of boil- 
ing water. Let it boil gently for 
about three-quarters of an hour, or 
until perfectly tender. Take it from 
the water, cut off the tips or points 
and put them aside until wanted. 
Put the milk on to boil in a farina 
boiler. Press the Asparagus stalks 
through a colander, and add them 
to the milk. Rub the butter and 
cornstarch or flour together until 
perfectly smooth, and add to tne 
boiling milk, stirring constantly .till 
it thickens. Now add the Asparagus 
tops, salt and pepper, and serve, 
without CroOtons, as the Asparagus 
tips form a beautiful garnish. 



28 



Cream of Spinach Soup. 

Potage a. la Creme d'Epinards. 

Half a Peek or Four Pints of Spinach. 

2 Ounces of Fresh Butter. 

Two Quarts of Oyster Water. 

1 Teaspoonfnl of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Granulated Sugar. 

^y4 of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Wash and boil one-half peck, or 
four pints of Spinach; this quantity 
will measure about one pint when 
cooked, chopped and pounded into a 
fine paste. Then put it into a stew 
pan with four ounces of fresh but- 
ter, the grated nutmeg and a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Let it cook for 
ten minutes, stirring constantly. Add 
to this two quarts of oyster juice (on 
other than fast days consommS may 
be used, or good bouillon). Let all 
boil up, and then press through a 
strainer. Set it over the fire again 
and just at the boiling point ,mix 
with it a tablespoonful of butter, 
and a teaspoonful of granulated sug- 
ar. Serve hot with Croutons. 

Cream of Bnrley Soup. 

Purge d'Orge. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Barley, or a Half Cup. 

1 Pint of Cream or Milk. 
TLe Yolks of 2 Eggs 3 Quarts of Water 
(boiling). 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scald the barley and then put into 
a kettle with three quarts of boil- 
ing water and let it boil about three 
hours. Take it off and mash thor- 
oughly, and strain through a sieve. 
Add the hot milk to the stock of the 
barley, season with salt and pepper, 
and let it come to a boil. Take off 
and add the yolks of two eggs. 

Cream of Rice Soup. . 

Cr§me de Riz. 

1 Cup of Rice. 3 Quarts of Water. 

1 Pint of Milk. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Wash the Rice thoroughly, rubbing 
dry. Put it into a saucepan with pne 
quart of cold water; when swelled 
add one quart of boiling water, and 
when it begins to get very tender 
add the remaining quart of boiling 
water. Then add the pepper and 
salt. Take from the fire, mash the 
rice well and rub all through a 
sieve. Beat up the yolks of the eggs 
well with a few tablespoonfuls of 
cream. When quite smooth stir In 
carefully a few spoons of the boil- 
ing rice water, and then pour the 
eggs and cream or milk into the 
saucepan with the rice, which you 
will have returned to the stove. Mix 
briskly and then draw aside and 
stir for two or three minutes, be- 
ing very careful not to allow the 
mixture to boil when once the eggs 



(ivill have been added. Serve hot 
with CroOtons or Crackers. 

On other than fast days this is 
most delicious made with Chicken 
ConsommS. 

Rice Soup, Without Meat. 

Riz au Maigre. 

1 Cup of Rice. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

3 Quarts of Water. 1 Spoon of Butter, 

1 Plat of Milk. Pepper and Salt. 

Wash the rice thffroughly, rubbing 
dry. Put it in a saucepan with one 
pint of cold water; when swelled, add 
one pint of boiling water; and when 
it begins to get very tender, add the 
remaining pint of boiling water. 
Add the pepper and salt. Beat up 
the yolks of the eggs with a few 
tablespoonfuls of cream. When 
quite smooth, stir in carefully a few 
spoonfuls of the boiling rice water, 
and then pour the eggs and cream in- 
to the saucepan, stirring very brisk- 
ly. Draw aside and stir for two or 
tliree minutes, but do not allow the 
soup to boil when once the eggs are 
added. 

Coconnut Soup. 

Potage de Cocoa. 

6 or 8 Calves' Feet. 

^ Pound of Grated Cocoanut. 

1 Gallon of Water. 

1 Pint of Ceam or Rich Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour or Arrowroot, 

3 Ounces of Fresh Butter. 

"" Blades of Slace. 

The Grated Rind of 1 Lemon. 
Scald the calves' feet, and scrape 
thoroughly w^ithout skinning; put 
them into tiie soup kettle with a gal- 
lon of cold water, and cover the ket- 
tle well. Let the feet come to a slow 
boil and skim carefully. Then add 
the blades of mace and let the soup 
boil slowly till the meat is reduced 
to rags and has fallen from the bones. 
Then strain into a white porcelain 
dish or pan, and set it away to cool. 
After it has congealed, scrape oft fat 
and sediment, and a beautiful jelly 
will remain. Cut up this cake of 
Jelly and put it into a thoroughly 
cleansed, white porcelain soup kettle. 
In the meantime grate the cocoanut 
very fine, till about a half pound Is 
on hand. Mix this with the pint of 
rich cream or milk, and add the 
butter which has been rolled smooth- 
ly in the arrowroot or flour. Mix 
this carefully and gradually with the 
calves' feet stock or soup, and sea- 
son with a grated nutmeg. The soup 
should then be set back on the Are 
and allowed to boil slowly for about 
fifteen minutes, stirring almost con- 
stantly. Pour into the tureen and 
serve with French rolls, or milk bis- 
cuit, made very light and thin. On 
fast days omit the calves' feet, using 
another ounce of butter instead. 



29 



The Creoles often serve powdered 
white sugar in gmall plates or in 
salt cellars for those of the company 
who prefer more sweetening. 

Cliestnnt Soup. 

Potage a. la FurSe de Marrons. 

3 Quarts of Oyster Water, or 

A Good Round of Beef or Veal, 

1 Quart of Cliestnuts. 1 Ueib Bouquet. 

Cayenne Feppcr. 

Make a good broth of the veal or 
beef; season with the Cayenne pep- 
per and salt. Follow the rule given 
for making soups, by allowing a 
pound of meat to each quart of wa- 
ter. Skim and boll till the meat falls 
into rags; then strain and put in a 
clean porcelain pot. In the mean- 



time, shell the chestnuts and throw 
them into boiling water until the 
skin comes oft easily. Put them into 
a saucepan with some of the soup wa- 
ter, and boil about thirty minutes, 
till quite soft. Press through a col- 
ander; add butter, pepper and salt. 
Then add to the soup. Make dump- 
lings the size of a marble with fresh 
butter rolled in flour, and add. (See 
recipe for Dumplings.) Boil the 
soup about fifteen minutes longer 
and serve. Some prefer the soup 
without dumplings, thinking It gives 
more of the flavor of the chestnuts. 
On fast days use the oyster water 
instead of the bee^ broth, following 
the recipe in all other particulars, 
and adding a half tablespoonful of 
butter to the purge before pressing 
through the colander. 



CHAPTER VI. 



THE noUILLI. 



"Le Bouilli.' 



Before leaving the subejct of soups 
it has been thought advisable to de- 
vote a short chapter to the "Bouilli," 
or the boiled meat that is usually 
thrown away by other nationalities 
than the Creole and French when the 
"Pot-au-Feu," the "Consommfi" c— 
the "Bouillon" has been completed. 

The Creoles long ago discovered 
or rather brought over , with them 
from the mother country, France, 
the delightful possibilities for a 
good entree that lurked within the 
generally despised and cast aside 
Bouilli, and these possibilities they 
Improved upon in their own unique 
and palatable styles of cuisine prep- 
arations. 

In Prance the "Bouilli" is always 
served at the home dinner, and so 
■with the new France, New Orleans. 
Far from rejecting the "Bouilli" as 
unpalatable and unfit for food, the 
Creoles discovered many delightful 
ways of serving it, and their theorie.< 
of the nutrition that still remained 
in the boiled beef have been sus- 
tained by medical science. The most 
eminent scientists have found by ex- 
periment that while heat coagulates 
the nutritious substances of the beef, 
only a small amount is dissolved 
when the water is heated gradually, 
and that the "Bouilli" is still valu- 
able as an article of food. 

The pleasant ways that the Cre- 
oles have af preparing it restores its 
flavor and makes it a delightful 
accompaniment to even the most 



aristocratic dinners. For breakfast 
the boiled beef left over is utilized 
in various ways. 

The Picayune has selected from 
among many the following recipes 
which need only to be tried to be re- 
peated often, or perhaps daily, in one 
form or the other. 

The recipes for the sauces men- 
tioned will be found in the chapter 
especially devoted to "Creole Sauces." 

Mirontous. 

The Left-Oyer Bouilli. 
3 Large Onions. 6 Shallots, 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 
1 Bay Leaf. 2 Pickles. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
This is a favorite way the Cre- 
oles have of serving the cold bouilli 
that has been saved from the preced- 
ing day: 

Slice the onions fine; brown in one 
tablespoonful of butter. Chop the 
'shallots and add to the onions, tlien 
add the garlic, thyme and bay leaf, all 
chopped very fine, and season witli 
salt, Cayenne and black pepper to 
taste. When the whole is browning 
nicely, add a tablespoonful of flour 
and water, or left-over broth, suffi- 
cient to cover. Season this to taste 
and then take two pickles, about one 
finger long, slice very fine, and add. 
Let all boil about fifteen minutes 
and then lay the cold bouilli, which 
has been thickly sliced, in the sauce. 



30 



Set it to bake in tlie oven about 
t\v"enty minutes. Garnish Willi but- 
tered toast and serve hot. 

Boiled Beef Snut£ Ik la Lyonnalse. 

Bouilli SautS fi. la Lyonnaise. 
The Boullll. 3 Onions. 

] Tablespoonful of Lard. 
: T.'Jblespoonful of Olive Oil. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chili Vinegar. 
The Peel of One Lemon. 
Slice the onions and brown them 
in lard, using about one tablespoon- 
ful. Skim the lard oft the onions 
and put the beef in the pan. Stir 
up and smother. Add the oil, the 
peel of a lemon, cut fine, and the 
Cliili vinegar. Serve hot. 

Boiled Beef H la Bordelnise. 

Bouilli a. la Bordelaise. 

The BonilU. 

H Dozen Shallots. 

1 Glass of White Wine. 

2 Teaspooufuls of Sauce Espagnoie. 

Slice the left-over beef. Then hash 
the shallots into very fine pieces; add 
a glass of white wine, pepper and 
salt to taste, and boil to half the 
quantity over a brisk Are. Then add 
the mashed beef marrow from the 
bone and two teaspooufuls of "Sauce 
Espagnoie" (see recipe), first melt- 
ing the marrow in a little bouillon. 
Stir rapidly over the fire, and as 
soon as it begins to bubble, with- 
draw it and set it back on the stove, 
letting it simmer gently for a quar- 
ter of an hour. Add the sliced beef 
for about ten minutes and then serve 
with Crofltons or fried crusts. 

Boiled Beef Si la Paysaune, 

Bouilli a, la Paysanne. 

The Bouilli. 

5 Large ^Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of. Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Flour. 

1 Wineglassful of Claret. 

A Dash of Mustard and Vinegar. 

Hash the left-over beef, and then 
chop five large onions very fine and 
cook them to a golden brown in but- 
ter. When nearly done, dust over 
them a teaspoonful of flnur and 
moisten with a little red wine. Cook 
the onions till done and then put 
in the cold hashed beef, adding a 
dash of French vinegar and a little 
mustard and serve. 

Boiled B»ef a I'Indlenne. 

Bouilli a. I'Indienne. 

The Bonilll. 

1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Saffron. 

2 Cayenne Pepper Pods. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Cup of Bouillon. > 

This is a dinner dish. Crush the 

pods of two Cayenne peppers and a 

teaspoonful of powdered saffron and 



heat and brown in butter. Then 
moisten with a little bouillon. Boll 
the sauce down, and when nearly 
ready to serve, thicken with a little 
butter. Serve in a gravy dish with 
the "Bouilli," which has- been nicely 
and tastefully garnistied with let- 
tuce leaves on a parsley bed. 

Boiled Beef WItli Tomatoes. 

Bouilli aux Tomates. 

The, Bouilli. 

% Dozen Tomatoes. 

2 Cups of Bouillon. 

^i Teaspoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Take a half dozen fine, ripe toma- 
toes, and parboil them in butter, be- 
ing careful not to let them burn. 
Add a pinch of flour and two good 
cups of bouillon, a little salt and 
pepper, a clove of garlic, a sprig of 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf. After 
two hours, take out the tomatoes 
and allow the beef to cook a few 
minutes in the sauce. Then serve on 
a flat dish, arranging the tomatoes 
around the beef and under each to- 
mato put a nice piece of buttered 
toast. 

Boiled Beef ft la Bmxelloise. 
Bouilli a, la Bruxelloise. 

The Bouilli. 

1 Dozen Brussels Sprouts. 
4 Tablespooufuls of Butter. 

3 Sprigs of Pareley. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take- about a dozen Brussels 
sprouts and blanch them in boiling 
water. Drain thoroughly and stew 
in butter with chopped parsley. Af- 
ter they have cooked ten minutes, 
take them out of the pah and pirboil 
them in fresh butter, which has been 
melted before the stove. Salt and 
pepper to taste and garnish nicely 
around the bouilli and serve. 

Boiled Beef en Pnplllottes. 

Bouilli en Papillottes. 
The Boullll. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of fintter. 
6 Sausages. (Cbaurlce.) 

2 Eggs. 1 Cup Bi'ead Crumbs. 

4 Sprigs of Paraley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This is a nice breakfast dish. Take 
the left-over bouilli cut in slices and 
parboil slightly in butter. Make a 
forcemeat or quenelle of pork sau- 
sage, garlic, parsley and moistened 
bread crumbs, add two eggs, salt 
and pepper. Put a layer of this 
"farci" between each layer of sliced 
beef, and, then add the bread crumbs, 
mixed with chopped parsley. Put 
the beef in oiled paper, folded as 
tightly as possible, cook a quarter 



31 



of an hour in the oven and serve in 
the pappillottes (paper.). 

Boiled Beef With Carrot Sauce. 

Bouilli a, la Crfioy. 
The Boullli. 
4 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

1 Gill of Cream. 
2 Sticks of Celery. 
3 Sprigs of I'arsley. 1 Sprig of Tliyme. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to laste. 
Make a good pur§e of fine, red oar- 
rots (see recipe), and then strain in 
butter. Ad'd a gill of rich cream 
and salt and pepper to the taste. Put 
the bouilli in the platter and pour thj 
sauce around it, serving hot just af- 
ter the soup. 

Boilcil Beef ^Vltli Lettuce. 
Bouilli a, la Laitue. 
The Bouilli. 
6 Bead of Lettuce. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 
12 Sausages. (Chaurice.) 
1% Cups Bread Crumbs. 
Salt aud Pepper to Taste. 
Take six fine, firm heads of lettuce, 
strip off all the green leaves, wash 
tlioroughly and soak and blanch in 
toiling water. Then throw them in- 
to cold water. When very cold 
squeeze in a towel till they are thor- 
oughly dry and cut off the stalks 
from below without injuring the 
heart. Fill this open place witli 
forcemeat balls, made Irom the bouilli 
after the recipe already given in 
Boiled ' Beef en Papillottes, that is, 
fry them in lard, with fresh bread 
crumbs soaked in bouillon and 
worked into the meat. Chop up with 
pepper, salt and garlic, and add one 
or two hard- boiled eggs. Tie the 
balls up and cook without adding 
water and fill the heart of the let- 
tuce. This may be served around tlra- 
tody of the bouilli and makes a. beau- 
tiful garnish. 

Bciled Beet ft la Lronnalse. 

Bouilli a, la Dyonnaise. 

The Bouilli. 
6 Sausages. (Chaurice.) 

1 Clove of Garlic. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 
2 Eggs. Bread Crumbs. 

^ The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Make sausage meat of the bouilli, 
adding the pork sausage, garlic, 
parsley and thyme. Moisten some 
bread crumbs in water and dissolve 
over them two eggs, salt and pepper. 
Chop the whole and tie it tightly in a 
cabbage leaf. An hour before serv- 
ing take out the remaining bouilli 
and the farci or stuffed cabbage leaf. 
Let them cool and cut the.m into 
slices and roll these in beaten eggs, 
and then in bread crumbs, and fry 
in butter. Throw over them a dash 
of powdered parsley and squeeze over 
all the juice of a, lemon. 



Boiled Beef Wltli Egg Toast. 

Bouilli au "Pain Perdu." 

6 Slices of Bouim. 
6 Slices of Stale Bread. 
2 Eggs. 1 Pint of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Parsley and Lettuce Leaves to Garnish. 
Take left-over or stale bread, slice 
it thickly and dip in cream or milk. 
Then dip it in the beaten whites and 
yolks of egg and fry in butter. Cut 
the bouilli into slices to match the 
bread, dip it in the egg and fry also.. 
Serve on a dish with chopped parsley 
dashed over it and a garnish of pars- 
ley or lettuce leaves. 

Boiled Beef Saut£ With Onions. 

Bouilli Satite aux Ognons. 

The Bouilli. 
3 Large Oulons. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1. Clove of Garlic. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Take three fine onions and parboil 
them in butter over a slow fire. When 
a rich, creamy brown, add clove gar- 
lic and Cayenne pepper. Cut the 
bouillon in thin slices and add, shak- 
ing the pan until browned. Place in 
tlie platter and serve with chopped 
parsley dusted over, and the juice oi" 
a lemon squeezed over it. 

Boiled Beef fi la Marscllaise. 

Bouilli a. la Marsellaise. 

The Bouilli. 

] Dozen Small Onions. 

% Cup Claret. % Cup Meat Gravy. 

Vi Can of Mushrooms. 
1 Herb Bouquet. % of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Slice the bouilli into thin, fine 
slices. Take a dozen onions, the 
smallest kind, and dust over with 
sugar, and bake in the oveh. When a 
good color, put a little of the bouil- 
lon in the stewing pan and boil down 
one half. Moisten with a cup of red 
wine and thick meat sauce, allowing 
half and half in proportion. Then 
add the beet, the mushrooms, the 
bouquet garni, salt, pepper and ' a 
little nutmeg, and serve very hot. 

Boiled Beef Sausage. 

Saucisse de Bouilli. 

The Bouilli. 
1 Pound of Pork. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 
6 Allspice. 3 Truffles. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 
1 Wineglass of Madeira. 
V> Cup of Bouillon. 
Take the bouilli of the day be- 
■fore, mince and add chopped pars- 
ley, a few spices, salt and Cayenne 
pepper, and a little beef extract 
saved from the bouillon. Take a 
pound of pork and add, mixing 
thoroughly. When the whole is well 



32 



mixed, add a few truffles and a little 
Madeira. Fill some entrails that 
have been thoroughly cleansed with 
this meat and shape the sausage as 
one desires. Boil in butter and serve 
alone. This makes an excel. ent 
breakfast dish. 

Beef Croqaettcs. 
Croquettes de Boeuf. 
The Bouilli. 
1 Pound , ot Poik or Sausage Meat. 
1 Clove of Garlic. 
2 Onions. Whites ot 3 Eggs. 

3 Sprigs ot Parsley. 
1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 
Salt and 'Pepper. 
Mince the beef with sausage meat 
and add garlic, parsley, pepper, salt 
and onions, and bread crumbs soalced 
in water. Add the whites ot two 
eggs beaten to a froth. Make into 
balls ana roll in the beaten white 
of an egg, and fry, being careful not 
to cook too rapidly. When sufficient- 
ly browned, pile in a pyramid shape 
on a dish, garnish with parsley sprigs 
and serve. 

Boiled Beef Gros Sel. 

Bouilli Gros Sel. 

The Bouilli. 

1 Bunch of Parsley. 1 Head of Lettuce. 

A Freuch Dressing. 



This is the simplest way of serv 
ing the bouilli, and the one most 
used by the Creoles as a daily dish. 
Take the bouilli from the bouillon, 
and serve on a platter, laying the 
whole on a bed of parsley and let- 
tuce.' Serve with salt or French 
dressing. 

A Good Every-Day Hnsh, 
Hachis. 

1 Quart of Chopped Soup Meat. 

1 Onion. 2 Potatoes. 

2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

1 Taljlespoonful of Butter. 

% Pint ot Water. 

Salt and Pepper to . Taste, 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Chop the left-over bouilli fine in 
dice shapes, and to every quart of 
the meat allow one onion, a table- 
spoonfill of butter, two hard-boiled 
eggs, two cold (left-over) potatoes, 
a half pint of water, and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Chop the potatoes, 
onions and eggs fine and put them 
into the stewing pan with the meat, 
adding by degrees the butter, salt 
and pepper with a little dash of Ca- 
yenne. Stew very slowly for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes and serve 
hot. 



CHAPTER VII. 
CREOLE GUMBO. 

Gombo a, la CrSole. 



Gumbo, of all other products of 
the New Orleans cuisine, represents a 
most distinctive type of the evolu- 
tion of good cookery under the hands 
of the famous Creole cuisinigres of 
old New Orleans. Indeed, the word 
"evolution" fails to apply when 
speaking of Gumbo, for it is an orig- 
inal conception, a something sui- 
generis in cooking, peculiar to 
this ancient Creole city alone, 
and to the manor born. With equal 
ability the olden Creole cooks saw the 
possibilities of exquisite and deli- 
cious combinations, in making Gumbu 
and hence we have many varieties, 
till the occult science of making a 
good "Gombo a, la Creole" seems to 
the Picayune too fine an inheritance 
of gastronomic lore to remain for- 
ever hidden away in the cuisines of 
this . oid Southern metropolis. The 
following recipes, gathered with care 
from the best Creole housekeepers 
of New Orleans, have been handed 
down from generation to generation 
by the old negro cooks, and preserved 
In all their delightful combinations 



by their white Creole mistresses 
They need only to be tried to prove 
thier perfect claim to the admiration 
of the many distinguished visitors 
and epicures who have paid trib- 
ute to our Creole Gumbo: 

Gumbo File. 

Gombo File. 

First, It will be necessary to ex- 
plain here, for the benefit of many,, 
that "Fil6" is a powder manufactured, 
by the remaining tribe of Choctaw 
Indians in Louisiana, from the young 
ond tender leaves of the sassafras. 
The Indian squaws gather the leaves- 
and spread them out on a stone mor- 
tar to dry. When thoroughly dried,, 
they pound them into a fine powder,, 
pass them through a hair sieve, and. 
then bring the FllS to New Orleans 
to sell, coming twice a week to the- 
French Market, from the old reser- 
vation set aside for their home oa 
Bayou Lacombe, near Mandeville,. 
La. The Indians used sassafras; 
leaves and the sassafras for many 



33 



medicinal purposes, and still sell 
bunches of the dried roots in the 
French Market. The Creoles, quick 
to discover and apply, found the pos- 
sibilities of the powdered sassafras, 
or "File," and originated the well- 
known dish, "Gumbo File." 

To make a good "Gumbo Fil§," use 
the following ingredients: 

1 Large Tender Chicken. 

2 Large Slices or Vi Pound Lean Ham. 

2 Tablespooufuls o£ Butter or 1 ' o£ Lard. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs o£ Parsley. 

" 3 Dozen Oysters. 

I Large Onion. 1 Sprig of Tliyme. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Water. 

2 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1 Half Pod of Red Peppei-, Without the Seeds. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Clean and out up the chicken as 
for a fricassee. Dredge with salt 
and black pepper, judging according 
to taste. Cut the ham into dice 
shapes and chop the onion, parsley 
and thyme very fine. Put the lard 
or butter into the soup kettle or deep 
stewing pot, and when hot, put in 
the ham and chicken. Cover closely 
and fry for about five or ten minutes. 
Then add the onion and parsley 'and 
thyme, stirring occasionally to pre- 
vent burning. When nicely browned 
add the boiling water and throw in 
the oyster stock, which has been 
thoroughly heated. Add the bay leaf 
chopped very fine, and the pepper 
pod, cut in two, and set the gumbo 
back to simmer for about an hour 
longer. When nearly ready to serve 
dinner, and while the Gumbo is boil- 
ing, add the fresh oysters. Let 
the gumbo remain on the stove for 
about three minutes longer, and then 
remove the pot from the fire. Have 
ready the tureens, set in a "bain- 
marie" Or hot water bath, for once 
the File is added the gumbo must 
never be warmed over. Take two 
tablespoonfuls of the File and drop 
gradually into the pot of boiling hot 
Gumbo, stirring slowly to mix thor- 
oughly; pour into the tureen, or tur- 
eens, if there should be a second de- 
mand and serve with boiled rice. (See 
recipe.) The rice, it should be re- 
marked, must be boiled so that the 
grains stand quite apart, and brought 
to the table in a separate dish, cov- 
ered. Serve about two spoonfuls of 
rice to one plate of gumbo. 

The above recipe is for a family 
of six. Increased quantities in pro- 
portion as required. Never boil the 
gumbo Tvith the rice, and never add 
the File while the gumbo is on the 
fire, as boiling after the file Is added 
tends to make the gumbo stringy and 
unfit for use, else the File is preci- 
pitated to the bottom of the pot, 
which is equally to be avoided. 

Where families cannot afford a 
fcwl, a good gumbo may be made by 



substituting the round ,of the beef 
for the chicken. 

Turkey Gumbo. 

Gombo de Dinde. 

The Remains of a Turkey. 

% Pound of Lean Ham. 

2 Tablespoons of Butter or 1 ol Lard. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Water. 

% Pod o£ Red Pepper, Without the Seeds. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Nothing is ever lost in a well-regu- 
lated Creole kitchen. When turkey 
is served one day, the remains or 
"left-over" are saved and made into 
that most excellent dish — a Turkey 
Gumbo. It is made in the same man- 
ner as Chicken Gumbo, only instead 
of the chicken, the turkey meat, 
black and white, that is left over, is 
stripped from the bones and car- 
cass. Chop fine and add to the hot 
lard, and then put in the ham, cut 
fine into dice shapes. Proceed exact- 
ly as in the recipe above, only after 
adding the boiling water, throw in 
the bones and carcass of the turkey. 
At the proper time remove the car- 
cass and bones, add the oysters, 
and then remove the pot and "File" 
the gumbo. Serve with boiled rice. 
Turkey Gumbo, when made from the 
remains of wild turkey, has a deli- 
cious flavor. 

Squirrel or Rabbit Gumbo. 

Gombo d'Bcureil ou de Lapin. 

These are famous Creole Gumbos. 
The following ingredients are used: 

1 Fine Squirrel or Rabbit. 

2 Slices or 14 Pound of Lean Ham. 

3 Sprigs ol Parsley. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Large Onion. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Water. 

% Pod of Red Pepper, Without the Seed. 

A 'Dash of Cayenne. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Skin, clean and out up the squirrel 
or rabbit, as for a fricasse. Dredge 
well with salt and black pepper. Cut 
the ham into dice shapes, and chop 
the onion, parsley and thyme very 
fine. Put the lard or butter into a 
deep stew pot and, when hot, put in 
the squirrel or rabbit. Cover closely 
and fry for about eight or ten min- 
utes. Then proceed in exactly the 
same manner as for Chicken Gumbo; 
add the "file" at the time indicated, 
and serve with boiled Louisiana rice. 
(See recipe.) 



34 



Otera Gumbo, 

Gombo F4vi, 

1 Chicken. 1 Onion. 

6 Large Fresh Tomatoes. 

2 Pints of Okra, or Fifty Counted. 

V2 Pod ot Red PeppCT, Without the Seeds. 
2 Large Siices ot Ham. 
1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme or Parsley. 

1 Tablespooufal ot Lard or Two Level Spoons 
of Butter. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 
Clean and cut up the chicken. 
Cut the ham into small squares or 
dice and chop the onions, parsley and 
thyme. Skin the tomatoes, and chop 
ilne, saving the juice. Wash and stem 
the okras and slice into thin layers 
of one-half inch each. Put the lard 
or butter into the soup kettle, and 
■n-hen hot add the chicken and the 
ham. Cover closely and let it sim- 
mer for about ten minutes. Then 
add the chopped onions, parsley, 
thyme and tomatoes, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent scorching. Then 
add the okras, and, when well- 
browned, add the juice of the toma- 
tces, which imparts a superior flavor. 
Ihe okra is very delicate and is li- 
able to scorch quickly if not stirred 
frequently. For this reason many 
Creole cooks fry the okra separately 
in a frying pan, seasoning with the 
pepper, Cayenne and salt, and then 
add to the chicken. But equally good 
results .may be obtained with less 
trouble by simply adding the okra 
to the frying chicken, and watching 
constantly to prevent scorching. The 
least taste ot a "scorch" spoils the 
flavor of the gumbo. When well 
fried and browned, add the boiling 
water (about three quarts) and set 
on the back of the stove, letting it 
simmer gently for about an hour 
longer. Serve hot, with nicely 
boiled rice. The remains of tur- 
key may be utilized in the gumbo, 
instead of using chicken. 

In families where it is not possible 
to procure a fowl, use a round steak 
of beef or veal, instead of the chick- 
en, and chop flne. But it must al- 
ways be borne in mind that the 
Chicken Gumbo has the best flavor. 
Much, however, depends upon the 
seasoning, which is always high, and 
thus cooked, the Meat Gumbo makes 
a most nutritious and excellent dish. 

Crab Guiubo. 

Gombo aux Crabes. 

1 Dozen Hard-Shell or Soft-Shell Crabs. 

1 Onion. 

6 Large Fresh Tomatoes. 

2 Pints ot Okra, or Fifty Counted. 

% Pod of Red Pepper, Without the Seeds. 

1 Bay I«af. 1 Sprig ot Thyme or Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Two Level 

Spoons of Butter. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

This is a great fast-day or "mai- 



gxe" dish with the Creoles. Hard or 
soft-shelled crabs may be used, 
though more frequently the former, 
as they are always procurable and 
far cheaper than the latter article, 
which is considered a luxury. Crabs 
are always sold alive. Scald the 
hard-shell crabs and clean according 
to recipe already given, "taking oft 
the dead man's lingers" and the 
spongy substances, and being care- 
ful to see that the sandbags on" the 
under part are removed. Then cut 
off the claws, crack and cut the 
body ot the crab in quarters. Sea- 
son nicely with salt and pepper. Put 
the lard into the pot, and when hot 
throw in the bodies and claws. Cover 
closely, and, after flve or ten minutes 
add the skinned tomatoes, chopped 
onions, thyme and parsley, stirring 
occassionally to prevent scorching. 
After flve minutes add the okras, 
sliced fine, and when well-browned, 
without the semblance of scorching, 
add the bay leaf, chopped fine, and 
the juice of the tomatoes. Pour over 
about two quarts and a half of 
boiling water, and set back on the 
stove and let it simmer well for 
about an hour, having thrown in the 
pepper pod. When nearly ready to 
serve, season according to taste with 
Cayenne and added salt; pour into 
a tureen and serve with boiled rice. 
This quantity will allow two soft- 
shell crabs or two bodies of hard- 
shelled crabs to eacn person. The 
soft-shell crab is simply the hard- 
shelled crab that has shed its shell. 
In three or four days the shell be- 
gins to harden again, hence the 
supply is never as generous as the 
hard-shelled crabs, which are al-- 
ways to be found in the New Orleans 
markets. 

Oyster Gumbo. 

Gombo aux Huitres. 

i Dozen Oysters. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Liquor. 

1 Tablespoouful of Lard or Butter. 

1 Quart of Hot Water. 

2 Tablespooufuls of Flour. 

1 Large White Onion. 

Parsley, Thyme and Bay Leaf, 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the lard into a kettle, , and 
when hot add the flour, making a 
brown roux. When quite brown 
without burning, add the chopped 
onions and parsley. Fry these, and 
when brown, add the chopped bay ■ 
leaf; pour in the hot oyster liquor 
and then add the hot water. When 
it comes to a good boil, just before 
serving, add the oysters which have 
been well drained, without pouring 
water over them, however. Cook 
for about three minutes longer and 
take off the stove and stir gradually 



35 



two tablespoonfuls of FilS into the 
boiling hot gumbo. Have the tureen 
ready in a "bain-marie," or hot- 
water bath, and pour in the gumbo 
and cover. Bring to tae table im- 
mediately and serve with boiled rice, 
allowing about six or eight oysters 
to each person. 

Shrimp Gumbo. 
Gombo aux Chevrettes. 
j_ake Shrimps are always used in 
making this gumbo, the river shrimp 
being too small and delicate. Pur- 
chase always about 100 shrimps, or 
a small basketfull, for there are al- 
ways smaller shrimps in the pile 
which, when co6ked, amount to little 
or nothing. In making Shrimp Gum- 
bo, either "Fil§ or Okra may be 
used in the combination, but it must 
be borne in mind that, while the 
"Fil6" is frequently used, shrimp 
are far more delicious for- gumbo 
purposes when used wiih okra. The 
shrimp should always be scalded or 
boiled before putting in the gumbo. 
(See recipe for "Boiling Shrimp.") 
Shrimp Gumbo File. 
Gbmbo Fil6 aux Chevrettes. 
50 Fine Lake Sbrimp. 
2 Quarts of Oyster Liquor. 
1 Quart of Hot Water. 
1 Large Wliite Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

3 Sprigs of rarsley. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 
Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 
Scald and shell the shrimp, sea- 
.soning highly with the boiling wa- 
ter. Put the lard into a kettle, and, 
when hot, add the flour, making a 
brown roux. When quite brown, 
without a semblance of burning, add 
the chopped onion and the parsley. 
Fry these, and when brown, add the 
chopped bay leaf; pour in the hot 
oyster liquor and the hot water, 
or use the carefully strained liquor 
in which the shrimp have been boiled. 
When it comes to a good boll, and 
about five minutes before serving, 
add the shrimp to the gumbo and 
take off the stove. Then add to the 
boiling hot liquid about two table- 
spoonfuls of the "File," thickening 
according to taste. Season again 
with salt and pepper to taste. Serve 
immediately, with boiled rice, (bee 
recipe, "Boiled Bice.") 

Green or Herb Gumbo. 

Gombo aux Herbes. 

A Veal Brisket. 

1 Large Slice of Lean Ham. 

Equal Parts of the Leaves of Young 

Cabbage, Radish, Turnips, Mustard, Spinach, 

Watercress. Parsley and Green Onions. 

1 Large Red or White Onion. 

% Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Sprlflr of Sweet Marloram. 

1 Clove. 9 Allspice. 

Cayenne to Taste. 

Soak and wash the leaves thor- 



oughly, being careful to wash each 
leaf separately, to be sure there lurk 
no insects in the folds or ridges. 
Then trim by taking off all the 
coarse midrib of the leaves, which 
will make the gumbo taste coarse 
and unpalatable. Boil the leaves to- 
gether for about two hours and' then 
parboil by adding a teaspoonful of 
cooking soda. Strain and chop very 
fine, being careful to save the wa- 
ter in which they were boiled.. Cut 
the brisket of veal and the sliced 
ham into small pieces and dredge 
with black pepper and salt, and chop 
one large white or red onion. Put 
a heaping teaspoonful of lard into 
a deep frying pan, and, when hot, 
add the chopped veal and the ham. 
Cover and let it simmer for about 
ten minutes, stirring occasionally to 
prevent burning. Then add the 
chopped onion and a little sprig of 
parsley chopped fine. When it comes 
to a rich brown, add the greens, and 
when these are browned, pour over 
four quarts of the water in which the 
leaves have been boiled. Throw in 
the finely chopped bay leaf, thyme, 
sweet marjoram, and the red pepper 
pod and the clove and allspice, 
mashed fine. Set it back on the 
stove and let it boil for about one 
hour longer, adding the Cayenne 
or "hot pepper," and you will have a 
regular Creole gumbo peculiar to 
New Orleans alone. Serve with 
boiled rice. 

Cnbbngre Grambo, 

Gombo Choux. 

1 Large Head of Cabbage (green and white 

mixed.) nt 

1 Round Steak. 

2 Large Slices of Lean Ham. 

2 Pounds of Creole Sausage. 

(About ^ to Pound.) 

1 Pod of Cayenne Pepper, Without the Seeds. 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
Salt and Black Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Gombo Choux, or Cabuage Gumbo, 
is a favorite Creole dish, especially 
in families where there are children, 
possessing, as it does, nutritive qual- 
ities in tbe highest degree, and be- 
ing besides a most palatable and sa- 
vory way of preparing cabbage. 

Shred the cabbage and wash each 
leaf separately and thoroughly to 
avoid insects. Then chop the entire 
head very fine, into pieces about half 
the size of dice. Cut the steak or 
brisket into small squares, also the 
ham, and fry in the deepest kettle 
you have, putting the meat' into the 
pot when the lard is very hot. When 
it begins to brown, add a chopped 
onion and the sausage, and then add 
the chopped cabbage, stirring and 
pouring in enough water to prevent 
it from burning.- Throw in the red 
pepper pod and a dash of Cayenne, 



36 



and salt to taste. Add a little black 
pepper. Stir often and allow the 
ingredients to cook well, gradually- 
adding, if necessary, a little water, 
and stirring frequently to prevent 
burning. When thoroughly cooked, 
make a cream sauce as follows: 

Take one pint of new milk and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and mix thor- 
oughly, so as not to be lumpy. Stir 
this into the gumbo while boiling, 
and continue stirring for five min- 
utes. Serve with boiled rice. If it 
is not possible to procure milk, al- 
most the same effect may be attained 
by mixing the flour in cold water 
of the same measurement and stir- 



ring in as already given. The gum- 
bo must not be allowed to stand on 
the fire after the flour has been 
boiled on it for five minutes, at it 
■will burn. 

Should the recipe prove above the 
purses of the poor, eitner the sau- 
sage or the round of beef may bo 
omitted. With the ingredients given 
in this recipe, it should not cost more 
than the following: Head of cab- 
bage, 5 cents; ham, 5 cents; steak 
10 cents; sausage, 10 cents; milk, 
5 cents. It may be varied to suit 
the purses of the rich or poor, and is 
always a nutritious dish and quite 
a dinner in itself. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



PISH. 



Du Poisson. 



The Fish Market of New Orleans 
is famous over the world. No 
stranger comes to the city without 
visiting this notable spot, and never 
thinks of leaving New Orleans with- 
out partaking of a "Pish Breakfast," 
or "Pish Dinner," at one of the Lake 
resorts. 

The perfection and variety of the 
fish found in the New Orleans mar- 
ket are unsurpassed. We have here 
all the fish found in the waters of 
the Gulf of Mexico contiguous to 
New Orleans, the Mississippi Sound 
and our own lake shores. These 
constitute the famous salt-water va- 
rieties, such as the Sheepshead, con- 
sidered by many the best fish in the 
Gulf; the famous Pompano and Span- 
ish Mackerel, the dainty Croaker, 
the toothsome Plounder, the Blue- 
fish, the Silver Trout, Tenderloin 
Trout, Speckled Trout, the Grouper, 
and the Mullet, the latter, however, 
being seldom eaten, owiijg to the 
softeness of its flesh, the number o£ 
its bones and the continued presence 
of the other and finer fish whic.i 
are to be had tor the fishing. Among 
shell fish we have the Hard-Shell 
Crab, the Soft-Shell Crab, consid- 
ered a great luxury in other parts, 
but always to be found in the New 
Orleans market; the appetizing Lake 
Shrimps; that delicious bivalve, the 
Oyster; the Crawfish, and the famous 
Green Turtle, so highly prized as a 
dainty morsel. Again, in the rivers 
and bayous and small streams of 
Louisiana we have many delightful 
varieties of fresh-water fish, such as 
fresh-water or Green Trout, the Saca- 
lait and a coarse fish called the Buf- 
falo. The River Shrimp of Louisiana 



■are unique in the United States. 
They are of a far more delicate va- 
riety than the Lake Shrimp and muc.i 
prized as an article of ■ food. Both 
Lake and River Shrimp are abun- 
dant in the summer time and are 
used alike by rich and poor. 

In the following recipes the njost 
delightful methods of preparing thesa 
fish are given, methods which may 
be used by all according to the purse, 
the conditions of the poorest having 
been considered as well as the wants 
of the wealthy. All are equally rec- 
ommended, being the most perfect 
preparations of their kind in use 
among t.ie Creole housekeepers. It 
might be added here, for the benefit 
of any Northern housekeepers into 
whose hands this book may fall, 
that many of the recipes may be 
modified according to good judgment 
in preparing the fish found exclus- 
ively in the Northern markets. For 
instance, in making the famous 
"Courtbouillon," which is in all res- 
pects a distinctive Creole conception, 
any firm fish, such as the Bass, may 
be used, though, of course, the fiavor 
of the delicious Red Snapper or Red 
Fish used by the Creoles to the ex- 
clusion of all other fish in mak- 
ing a "Courtbouillon," will be found 
wanting. With modifications that 
■will suggest themselves to any intel- 
ligent housekeeper, they may be used 
the world over in preparing fish of 
other varieties than those which are 
the delight and pride of the New Or- 
leans Pish Market. 

How to Tell Good Fisll. 

Unless perfectly fresh, fish is unfit 
for use. Care should be taken to see 



37 



that the gills are bright and red, the 
scales shining, the eyes clear and the 
flesh very firm and free from any un- 
pleasant odor. In the New Orleans 
Fish Market the vendors generally 
clean and scale the fish, it requested 
to do so; but this cleaning and scal- 
ing is not to be entirely depended 
upon, because it is rarely thorough, 
only the heavier scales and entrails 
being removed. On coming home 
from the market, the fish should be 
immediately rescaled and thoroughly 
cleansed and washed without soak- 
ing, in water; it is far better to let 
the water run over the fish, for thus 
the smallest particle of blood is re- 
moved. This is very important in 
order to have a good, wholesome, sav- 
ory dish. Then sprinkle the fish on 
the inside with salt, and set in the 
ice box. If this is wanting, put It 
in a very cool place, but it is always 
best for it to remain on ice until 
ready to use, especially during the 
summer. The small vendors in the 
New Orleans private markets fre- 
quently oblige their poor customers 
by placing the fish in their ice boxes 
until the time for preparation, when 
it is sent for and is found cold and 
firm and ready for cooking. 

Methods of Cooking Fish, 

Fish may be boiled, broiled, stewed, 
fried or baked. 

Visitors to New Orleans declare 
that nowhere is fish cooked in such 
palatable ways as in this old Franco- 
Spanish city. The experience of 
generations of fine old cooks has been . 
brought to bear upon the preparation 
of the fish found in the Louisiana wa- 
ters and those of the Mexican Gulf, 
with the result that a Creole code 
of rules for the cooking of even the 
smallest and less important flsh pre- 
vails, and it is considered little 
short of barbarous to depart from 
it. 

The Creole methods of boiling and 
baking flsh are the perfection of "cul- 
inary art and unlike any method in 
vogue elsewhere. 

Special recipes are, therefore, giv- 
en for the boiling and baking of 
Sheepshead, Redfish, Red Snapper, as, 
also, for making the world-famous 
Creole "Courtbouillon" and "Bouilla- 
baise." These ruies should be strict- 
ly observed in cooking these flsh if 
one would bring out the best flavor 
of each. But there are other flsh, 
such as Green Trout and Perch, 
which, when simply boiled and served 
with appropriate sauces, are known 
to reserve their best flavor for this 
species of cooking. 

The following general rules for 
boiling, broiling, baking, stewing 
and frying fish should be carefully 
followed wherever indicated in the 
recipes. 



BOTLBD FISH. 

Poisson Bouilli. 
General Rule for Balling Flsh. 

--lean and wash the flsh thoroughly. 
Make a small letter "S" with knife 
on the back; pass twine around the 
body of the flsh so as to secure U. 
Never wrap or tie in a cloth. Have 
ready a kettle of boiling water and 
throw in a sprig of onion, thyme 
and bay leaf, eight or ten cloves, 
about two dozen allspice, all mashed 
fine; a bit of lemon peel and a red 
pepper pod. When the water has 
boiled long enough to have extracted 
the flavor of these ingredients, drop 
the fish in carefully, so as to avoid 
■breaking. Let it boil about ten 
minutes and then take out care- 
fully. Put into a strainer and drain 
quickly. Place on a bed of parsley 
with garnishes of lemon and serve 
either a Mayonnaise or Genoise 
Sauce or Sauce Hollandaise. (See 
recipes.) ' _ 

The Creoles add a clove of garlic 
to the boiling water, but this is ac- 
cording to taste. 

BROILFD FISH. 
Poisson Grills. 
General Rules for Broiling Flsh. 
Always use the double broiler, 
made of wire, as this allows the coDk 
to turn the fish from side to side 
without disturbing the body during 
the process of broiling, and possibly 
breaking the flesh. Clean the flsh, 
without cutting off the head and 
tail. "When the flsh is large, split 
down the back; else broil whole. Al- 
ways serve broiled flsh whole. Have 
a clear moderate fire. Expose flrst 
the flesh side to the fire, and then 
the skin, as the latter browns it is 
liable to burn quickly. Great care 
must, therefore, be taken not to burn 
the skin side. 

Before placing on the broiler, rub 
the flsh well with salt and pepper, 
mixed in a little sweet oil or a little 
butter oil or butter. If the flsh is 
small, broil on a quick, clear flre; It 
large, as mentioned above, the flre 
must be moderate, or the outside of 
the fish will be charred before the 
inside is done. When the fish is done 
through and through, -which can 
quickly be determined by the fish 
parting easily from the bone, remove 
the gridiron from the flre, and loos- 
en the flns from the broiler with 
a knife, being careful not to 
break the flesh. Then place the hot 
dish over the fish, and, with a dex- 
terous movement, turn the two back 
again, thus separating the gridiron 
from the flsh and placing the latter 
in the dish. Butter well, season with 
a little pepper and salt, if deemed 
necessary, and pour over a table- 



38 



spoonful of chopped parsley and lem- 
on juice. Serve with garnishes of 
sliced lemon and parsley, or gar- 
nishes of delicate green lettuce 
leaves. 

Broiling is one of the nicest ways 
of cooking certain kinds of fish, and 
cannot be too highly recommended. 

BAKISO PISH. 

Poisson au Gratin. 

General Rule for Baking Fisb, 

Clean the Fish, cutting -off the 
fins. Make the letter "S" on the 
sides. Rub well inside and out with 
pepper and salt. Butter a stewpan 
and put in one large chopped onion 
and a wineglassful of white wine. 
Place the fish in the pan, put in the 
oven and let it bake about twenty 
minutes, having been careful to place 
lumps of butter over it and basting 
frequently. When done carefully, 
lift the fish out of the pan and put it 
into the dish in which it is to be 
served. Take the gravy in which the 
fish has been cooked and add about 
a cup of oyster water, the juice of one 
lemon, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
mushrooms, one tablespoonful of 
minced parsley, thyme and sweet 
marjoram, ten allspice, one clove of 
garlic, a little Cayenne, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Mix all thoroughly 
over the stove, adding a little but- 
ter if the gravy adheres too much 
to the pan. Pour over the fish, and 
garnish with whole mushrooms and 
slices of lemon laid alternately upon 
Crofltons or dried toast, out diamond 
shape. 

STEWED FISH. 

Poisson en Matelote. 

General Rule for Steering Fish, 

Clean the fish well and slice and 
pour over one cup of good, boiling 
vinegar. Make a roux by putting 
one tablespoonful of lard into the 
stewpan, and when hot add gradually 
two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
smoothly. When quite brown, take 
the fish, which has been previously 
rubbed with salt and pepper, and 
place in the pot. Let it simmer 
gently a few minutes, and then add 
a large chopped onion, parsley, one 
clove of garlic, one sprig of thyme, 
a bay leaf, two' blades of mace and 
eight or ten allspice. Let these 
brown and cover with water sufl5- 
cient to prevent burning. Put the 
fish on a slow fire to stew, and when 
half done, add a little Cayenne, and, 
if possible, add a pint or glass of 
Port Wine. When done, place the 
fish in a dish, pour the gravy over 
it, and garnish with CroQtons, with 
alternate slices of lemon and pre- 
pared horseradish. 



FRIED FISH. 

Poissons Frits. 
General Rule for Frying Flata. 

Certain of the fish of the Mexican 
Gulf are always best when fried.' 
Of these are the toothsome Croakers, 
the delicate Sacalait and Patassas, 
and also the Speckled Trout when 
served in tenderloin steaks. 

There is an art in knowing how 
to fry fish properly. Perhaps there 
is no other method of cooking fish 
which is more commonly used, and 
no other which is more generally 
abused. There are few people who 
really know how to fry fish properly. 
The following general rule will" give 
Tlie Secret of Good Frying. 

The secret of good frying lies in 
having the lard heated Just to -the 
proper point. If the fish is placed in 
the boiling lard, it is liable to burn 
quickly without being cooked 
through and through. If placed sim- 
ply in the well-heated lard, it ab- 
sorbs the fat and is delicate and ten- 
der and there is no tax upon the di- 
■gestive organs. Always have suffi- 
cient lard in the pan to fry all the 
fish that is on hand and never add 
a lump of cold lard to the heated 
substance. This checks the cooking 
of the fish and spoils the taste. It 
the lard spits and crackles, that is 
no evidence of boiling. It only 
means that the lard is throwing off 
drops of moisture that have crept in. 
Boiling lard is perfectly still until 
it begins to smoke, and then it is in 
'danger of burning and must be re- 
moved from the fire. To test the 
lard, drop in a piece of bread. If it 
begins to color, the lard Is ready for 
frying. When the fish is fried, skim 
it out, draining off all the fat. But- 
ter is never used in frying fish, as It 
burns quickly. 

A Short Resume of the Way In Whlcli 

the Fish of the Nevr Orleans 

Markets Sliould Always Be 

Cooked. 

Sheepshead may be boiled, broiled 
or baked, and is good with any 
sauce. 

Redflsh is principally used in mak/- 
ing "Courtbouillon," or it is boiled 
and served with an Hollandaise 
Sauce, or baked. 

Red Snapper should always be 
boiled or baked. It is delightful 
served a. la Chambord, but it is best 
a. la Creole. 

Grouper is served in the same way 
as Red Snapper. 

Flounder should always be baked 
a. la Nouvelle Orleans, or &. la Nor- 
mande, or with a white wine sauce 
as in Baked Sheepshead or in the 
famous recipe "Sole a la Orly." (See 
recipe.) 



39 



Pompano should always be broiled 
and served with Sauce a. la Maitre 
a'Hotel. 

Spanish Mackerel should always be 
broiled in the same manner as Pom- 
pano, and served with Sauce a, la 
Maitre d'Hotel. 

Bluefish should be cooked and 
served in the same manner as Pom- 
pano and Spanish Mackerel. 

Speckled Trout is generally broiled 
and served in tenderloin, or a Ten- 
derloin Trout, with Sauce a, la Tar- 
tare. 

Green Trout and Perch should be 
broiled and served with a Sauce a. 
la Maitre d'Hotel, or else boiled 
and served with a Sauce Genoise, or 
an HoUandaise or Drawn Butter 
Sauce. 

Croakers are fried and served with 
garnish of parsley or lemon. 

Patassas, Sacalait and other small 
fish are served in the same manner as 
Croakers. 

Soft-shell crabs may be fried in the 
same manner as Croakers, or broiled 
and served on toast. 

Shrimp are generally boiled, with 
plenty of seasoning. The River 
Shrimp are always served as boiled, 
shells and all, but the Lake Shrimp 
enter into many combinations in 
cooking. 

Hard-shelled Crabs may be stuffed, 
stewed, fried and made into gumbo. 

All left-over, broiled, baked or 
boiled Jish should be utilized in mak- 
ing salads, croquettes, etc. 

Oysters are served in almost every 
conceivable way, and enter into the 
most delightful combinations in 
cooking. 

A fish weighing three pounds, or 
small fish in quantity sufficient to 
make three pounds (uncooked), will 
serve six persons. 

THE SHEEPSHEAD. 
Casburgot. 

Of all the fish found in the waters 
of the Gulf of Mexico, the Sheeps- 
head is perhaps the most to be com- 
mended for frequent household use, 
being susceptible of a far greater 
variety of modes of preparation than 
any other fish; the flesh being of a 
less richer fiber than the Redfish, 
Red Snapper, Pompano and Spanish 
Mackerel, it may be used from day 
to day without injury to the stom- 
ach. It is good in almost any form 
and may be boiled, baked or broiled, 
and served with almost any sauce. 
Boiled Sliccpsliend. 
Casburgot Bouilli. 
A 3-Poun(l Sheepshead. 1 Sliced Onion. 
3 Bay Learos. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Spilg of 

Parsley. 
1 Sprig of Sweet Marjoram. 1 Tablespoonful 
French Vinegar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Cream Saure. 
Wash and thoroughly clean the 



fish, and then lay on a pan and open 
the fiesh on either side by making 
the letter "S" with the knife. This 
is done to prevent the fish from puf- 
fing out Or drawing up, and to insure 
thorough cooking and a perfect shape 
afterwards. Then tie the flsh well 
with cord or twine, wrapping it 
around the body. Never encase a 
boiled flsh in a cloth; put the fish in 
a deep saucepan and add boiling wa- 
ter sufficient for the fisli to swim in 
it. Throw in a tablespoonful of 
spice (well mashed), a sliced onion, 
three bay leaves, a sprig of parsley 
(all chopped very fine), a tablespoon- 
ful of French vinegar, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Cover well and let 
it boil for ten minutes. After ten 
minutes, the flsh is cooked. Prepare 
a "Cream Sauce" (see reaipe) and 
serve immediately. ' ^, ^ 

Sheepshead il la Creole^ 

Casburgot a la Crfiole. 

A 3- Pound Sheepshcnd. 
2 Onions. 1 Bunch of Parsley. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 4 Bay Leaves. 1 Sprig of 

Sweet Marjoram. 
1 Quart of Boiled Cream. Ynllts of 4 Eggs. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 
Bread Crumbs. 

Prepare the Sheepshead as for boil- 
ing (see recipe Boiled Sheepshead). 
"When quite done, take out of the 
water and flake off all the flesh from 
the bones. Have ready a quarter of 
boiled cream or milk. Beat the yolks 
of four eggs and mix with the cream. 
Chop one large onion, a bunch of 
parsley, a sprig each of thyme and 
bay leaf, and add to the cream and 
eggs. Let it boil up once, and while 
boiling, throw in three tablespoon- 
fuls of fiour, rubbed perfectly smooth, 
in a little cream, and about two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter. Remove from 
the flre. Have ready a deep dish, 
well buttered, and put in a layer of 
fish and then a layer of the sauce, 
until the dish is full. Sprinkle over 
with bread crumbs. Place in the 
oven and bake about a half hour, or 
until brown. This is a very delight- 
ful method of preparing Sheepshead. 

Baked Sheep.shen(1. 

Casburgot au Gratin. 
A 3-Pound Sheepshead. 1 Large Onion. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. % Bottle of White Wiae. 
6 Fresh Tomatoes. 2 Dozen Lake Shrimp.' 

1 Dozen Oysters. % Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Crackers. Dry Toast Cut -in Dice Shape. 

3 Sprii's Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Clean and wash the fish; place on 
a platter; chop one large onion fine, 
rub the fish first with salt and black 
pepper, and then take a large and 



40 



deep kitchen pan, place within a 
tablespoonful of butter, the chopped 
onion, bay leaf and thyme. Place 
the flsh on top of this and pour over 
a half bottle of white wine. Cover 
with another close pan and put the 
whole on top of the oven (not on the 
inside). Bake from the bottom. 
When it begins to boil from below, 
turn the flsh over carefully without 
breaking-, and let it bake on the other 
side. Take a saucepan and put with- 
,in a tablespoonful of butter and mix 
thoroughly with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Let it brown without 
burning, and then add six fresh to- 
matoes, skinned and chopped fine, 
or a half can. Add two dozen Lake 
Shrimp that have been cleaned well 
and scalded, a half can of mush- 
rooms ,- saU and pepper to taste. Let 
all cook for about five minutes and 
tlien water with the gravy in which 
the fish is cooking. Mix well and 
cover the flsh with it. Parboil one 
dozen oysters, and when the fish is 
cooked, set it in the dish in which it 
is to be served and place the oysters 
all around it on small slices of dry 
toast. Cover the flsh alternately 
with the shrimp and oysters, as a 
garnish over and around it. Mash 
two crackers into crumbs and 
sprinkle over, and place alternately 
small bits of butter on top of the 
flsh. Place the dish In the oven 
and bake the flsh with a quick flre 
until brown, and serve immediately. 
This preparation is an exclusive 
conception of our Creole cuisini&res 
and cannot be too highly recom- 
mended. 

Baked Sheepsbead & la Creole. 

Casburgot a, la Creole au Gratin. 

A 3-Pound Sbeepsbead. 

1 Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

1 Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of Cbopped Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful ofLard. 1 Pint of White Wine 

or Boiling Water. 

Salt and Pepper and Flonr to Dredge, 

A HoUandaise, Bechamel or Tomato Sauce. 

The following is a more simple 
manner, where means are limited, of 
baking Sheepshead for frequent fam- 
ily use. Clean the flsh thoroughly, 
. inside and out; wash well and dry 
thoroughly with a clean towel. Rub 
it well with salt and pepper, then 
make a dressing, taking one cup of 
stale bread crumbs, wet and squeezed 
thoroughly of all water, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley a half 
teaspoonful of salt and a little black 
pepper. Mix well and fry in a little 
lard. One dozen oysters or shrimp 
Or the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
added and mixed increase the flavor 
of the dressing, „ut the dressing can 
be made very nicely without. After 



frying the dressing a few minutes 
take off the stove and stuff the 
body of the flsh and sew up with 
soft thread or soft yarn. Score or slit 
the flsh on either side, making the 
scores about an inch apart and lard 
it either by putting a strip of salt 
fat in each gash or filling with larcL 
Grease the bottom of a baking pan 
put the flsh in it and dredge thickly 
with salt and flour and a little Ca- 
yenne. If possible, pour over a half 
■bottle of white wine, otherwise sim- 
ply cover the bottom of the pan 
with the grease, add a little boiling 
water, and put the flsh in a hot oven. 
Baste every ten minutes or so by tak- 
ing a spoon and pouring the gravy 
over the fish. Allow about fifteen 
minutes of baking to every pound 
of flsh, the ordinary sized fish of four 
pounds requiring about one hour. 
When brown on one side, turn on the 
otlier, and when done carefully, slide 
the fish into the center of the flat 
dish in which it is to be served, and 
garnish nicely with slices of lemon, 
fried potato balls and chopped pars- 
ley. Make the garnish by placing 
sprigs of parsley between the fried 
potato balls and laying on the slices 
of lemon. Serve with HoUandaise 
Sauce or Bechamel Sauce. (See 
ceipts.) 

Again, where the the fish is not 
baked in wine and served with se- 
parate sauce a good sauce from its 
own juices may be made. Simply 
grease and cover the bottom of the 
pan with boiling water and place in 
the fish. As it begins to bake well 
take a half dozen good, fresh toma- 
toes, or a half can of tomatoes, one 
onion, one bay leaf, a sprig of thyme 
and a blade of mace, chop all fine, 
and mix thoroughly and pour over 
the baking flsh. Add a little butter, 
salt and pepper, and a very good 
every-day sauce will be the result 
. Red Snapper may be baked in this 
same simple style where the purse 
will not permit of the more expensive 
recipe, given further on. 

Red Snapper and Redfish. 

Red Snapper et Poisson Rouge. 
These are distinctive fish, and form 
unique and most delightful dishes of 
the Creole cuisine. 

Courtbouillon ft la Cr6ole. 
Six Fine Slices of Redflsh or Bed Snapper 

(equal to 3 Pounds.) 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 2 Tablespoonfnb of 

Flour. 

12 Well-Mashed Allspice. 3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 3 Sprigs of Sweet 

Marjoram. 

3 Bay Leaves. 

1 Large Onion. 1 clove of Garlic. 

Large Fresh Tomatoes or a Half Can. 

1 Quart Of Water. 1 Glass of Claret. Tie 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 



41 



Those kings o( the New Orleans 
French Market, the Red Snapper or 
the Redfish, are used in making the 
pride and glory of the New Orleans 
cuisines, a good "Courtbouillon." 
More generally and with finer results 
the Redfish or "Poisson Rouge" is 
used. This fish may always be known 
by the single spot on the tail. The 
old Creole darkies have a tradition 
that this was the fish which the 
Apostles brought to the Savior when 
he performed his great miracle of 
the loaves and me fishes. They hand 
down the quaint legend that the Sa- 
vior took up this fish between his fin- 
gers and blessed it, and it was ever 
after a marked fish in the waters, 
the imprint of the Lord's fingers hav- 
ing remained on the spot where, he 
held up the fish and blessed it and of- 
fered it to His Father. They hold the 
Redflsh in reverent veneration, and 
never fail to tell the little children 
when cooking it: "dose am de marks 
ob de Lord's hand." 

To make a real Courtbouillon slice 
the Redflsh in fine, clear-cut pieces, 
after having thoroughly washed and 
cleaned, it. Make a "Roux" by put- 
ting one tablespoonful of lard in a 
deep can or kettle. When hot add 
gradually two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, stirring constantly to prevent 
burning. Throw in about ten or 
twelve well-mashed allspice, and 
three sprigs each of chopped thyme, 
parsley, bay leaf and sweet marjo- 
ram, one clove of garlic and one large 
onion, chopped very fine. Add six 
fresh, large tomatoes, chopped fine. 
Or one-half can of tomatoes. Pour 
in one glass of good claret, add about 
one quart of water, and let it boil 
well. Then add salt and Cayenne to 
taste, and when this has boiled 
about five minutes add the fish, 
putting in slice ay slice. Add the 
juice of a lemon, and let all boil 
aoout ten minutes. Serve with 
French fried "potatoes, mashed po- 
tatoes or potato croquettes. 

A Courtbouillon of Red Snapper Is 
made in the same way. 

Spanish CourtbonlUon, 

Courtbouillon a. I'Espagnole. 
6 Slices of Redflsh pr Red Snapper (equal to 

3 pounds.) 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Flour. 

1 Large Onion. 6 Tomatoes. 3 Sprigs of 

Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 3 Sprigs of Tliyme. . 

1 Spiig of Sweet Basil. 

2 Bay Leaves. 1 Cup of White Wine. 

2 Pints of Water. 
The delightful adaptability of the 
New Orleans cuisine to the wants of 
all the people may be seen in the 
following Courtbouillon, which is in 
general use among the families of 
moderate means, and is, indeed, a 



very pleasing way of cooking Red- 
flsh: 

Buy in the French Market four or 
six slices of Redflsh. Make a Roux 
by putting one tablespoonful ot lard 
into the stew pan, and when It is hot, 
stir in gradually two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Add one large chopped 
onion, six tomatoes (chopped), the 
chopped parsley, clove of garlic, 
sweet basil and thyme, all chopped 
very fine. Add two bay leaves whole. 
"When it browns nicely without burn- 
ing, pour in about two pints of water 
and let it come to a boil. Rub the 
flsh well with salt and pepper, and 
pour over it a cup of boiling vin- 
egar, if you have no white wine. Put 
the flsh slice by slice into the pot and 
let it simmer for about a half hour, 
or until the flesh begins to be soft. 
Then remove from the fire, take out 
of the pot, and lay the slices in a 
dish. Take the bay leaves out of the 
^avy, pour the gravy over the flsh, 
and serve with garnishes of sliced 
lemon. - 

Courtbouillon is very palatable 
served in this way. It is a most eco- 
nomical Friday or fast-day dish in 
large families when served with 
boiled rice, or potatoes boiled whole. 

Bouillabaise. 

6 Slices of Red Snapper. 6 Slices of Redflsh. 

% Bottle of White Wine. % Lemon. 

6 Large Fresh Tomatoes, or ^ Can. 

3 Onions. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

3 Cloves of Gallic. 

3 Bay Leaves. 3 Spi'lgs of Thyme. 

3 Spiigs of Parsley. 

6 Allspices. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

1 Good Strang Piuch of SatEron. 

■Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

This is the dish that drew from 

Thackeray that famous tribute to 

Creole cookery: "In New Orleans you 

can eat a Bouillabaisse, the like of 

which was never eaten in Marseilles 

or Paris." 

The reason is clear, for in those 
old French cities the Bouillabaisse is 
made from the fish of the waters of 
the Mediterranean Sea, notably the 
Sturgeon and the Perch combined, 
while in New Orleans it is made from 
those matchless fish of the Gulf of 
Mexico, the Red Snapper and the 
Redfish (Poisson Rouge). It will be 
noticed that it takes two kinds of 
flsh to make a Bouillabaisse. The 
first Bouillabaisse was made in Mar- 
seilles, and the old Creole tradition 
runs that it was the discovery of two 
sailor fishermen, who were disput- 
ing as they sat in a schooner as to 
the proper way of cooking a Stur- 
geon and Perch combined. Both es- 
sayed: One succeeded in making a 
delightful dish that would have glad- 
dened the heart of any old French 
"bon vivant." The other failed. The 
successful one enthusiastically of- 



42 



fered to teach his friend, and as the 
latter was following the directions im 
plicitly, and the finishing touches 
were being given to the dish, the 
teacher, seeing that the critical and 
important moment had come when 
the flsh must be taken from the Are, 
or it would be spoiled if it cooked a 
moment longer, cried out, bringing 
down his hand emphatically: "Bt 
quand ga commence a bouillir — 
Baisse!" Hence the name "Bouilla- 
baisse," which was given to the disli 
from that moment. From all por- 
tions of Europe people go to Mar- 
seilles to eat a "Bouillabaisse" on 
the seashore. 

The taste of the Bouillabaisse still 
lingered in the mouths of the old 
French Creole settlers of New Or- 
leans. The famous old chefs sought 
two fish from the water of the Mex- 
ican Gulf that might be used in tlie 
making of the dish with a reason- 
able hope of success. They chose tlie 
Red Snapper and the Redfish. The 
result is told in Thackeray's tribute. 
The Creole Bouillabaisse, with the 
modifications and improvements that 
early ingenuity suggested, is a dish 
that was the standing offering in an- 
tebellum days to every distinguished 
Parisian or foreigner that visited 
New Orleans. Its reputation is sus- 
tained by the Creole cuisiniSres of 
our own day. It is made as follows: 

First cut off the head of the Red 
Snapper and boil it in about one and 
a half quarts of water, so as to make 
a fish stock. Put one sliced onion 
and a herb bouquet consisting of 
thyme, bay leaf and parsley, into the 
water. When reduced to one pint, 
take out the head of the fish and the 
herb bouquet and strain the water 
and set it aside for use later on. 

Take six slices of Redfish and six 
slices of Red Snapper of equal sizes 
and rub well with salt and pepper. 
Mince three sprigs 'Of thyme, three 
sprigs of parsley, three bay leaves 
and three cloves of garlic, very, very 
fine, and take six "allspice and grind 
theni very fine, and mix thorouglily 
Witli the minced herbs and garlic. 
Tlien take eabh ?lice of fiSh and rub 
Well with this mixturfe till every por- 
tion is permeated by fhe herbs, spice 
and garlic They must be, as it were, 
soaked into "fhe flesh, if you would 
achieve the success of this dish. 
Take two tablespoonfuls of fine olive 
oil and put into a very large pan, 
so large that each slice of the fish 
may be put in without one piece 
overlapping the other. Chop two on- 
ions very fine and add them to the 
heating' oil. Lay 'the fish slice by 
slice in the pan and cover, and let 
them "6touK6," or smother for about 
ten minutes, turning once over so 
that each side may cook partly. Then 



take the fish out of the pan and set 
the slices in a dish. Pour a half 
bottle of white wine into the pan and 
stir well. Add a half can of toma- 
tes, or six large fresh tomatoes sliced 
fine, and let them boil well. Then add 
half a lemon, cut in very thin slices, 
and pour over a pint of the liquor In 
which the head of the snapper was 
boiled. Season well to taste with 
salt, pepper and a dash of Cayenne. 
Let it boil until very strong and till 
reduced almost one half; then lay 
the fish slice by slice, apart one from 
the other, in the pan, and let boil 
five minutes. In the meantime have 
prepared one good pinch of saffron, 
chopped very fine. Set it in a small 
deep dish and add a little of the 
sauce in which the fish is boiling to 
dissolve well. When well melted, 
and when the fish has been just five 
minutes in the pan, spread the saf- 
fron over the top of the fish. Take 
out of the pan, lay each slice on 
toast, which has been fried in butter; 
pour the sauce over and serve hot 
immediately. You will have' a dish 
that LucuUus would have envied. 



Boiled Red Fish or Boiled Red 
Snapper. 

Poisson Rouge ou Red Snapper 
Bouilli. 



A 3-Pound Redfish or Red Snapper. 

1 Sliced Onion. 

3 Bay Leaves. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Sweet Marjoram. 1 Tablespoonful 

of French Vinegar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

An Hollandaise Sauce. 



Wash and thoroughly clean the 
fish, and then lay on a pan and open 
the flesh on either side by making the 
letter "S" with the knife. This is 
done to prevent the flsh from puffing 
out or -drawing up, and to insure 
thorough cooking and a perfect 
shape afterwards. Then tie the fish 
well with cord or tWine, wrapping 
it around the body. Never encase a 
boiled fish in a cloth; put the flsh in 
a deep saucfepan and add boiling wa- 
ter sufficient for the flsh to swim in 
it. Throw in a tablespoonful of 
sp-ice (well mashed), a sUced onion, 
three bay leaves, a sprig of thyme 
and sweet marjoram, a sprig o£ 
parsley (all chopped very fine), a 
tablespoonful of French vinegar, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Cover 
well and let it boil for ten minutes. 
After ten minutes, the flsh is cooked. 
Prepare a "Cream Sauce" (.=ee re- 
cipe) and serve immediately. 



43 



Baked Rea Snapper. 

Red Snapper a. la Crgole. 

A Fine Red Snapper, 3 Founds in Welglit. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 2 Dozen Boiled Sbrinip. 

1 Dozen Boiled Crawflsli, 
2 Large Onions. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Gup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 
3 Large Tomatoes, y^ Can of llusbrooms. 
3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 
2 Bay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 1 Bottle of 
White Wine. 
Salt and Pepper. 
Clean and wash the Red Snapper 
thoroughly. Make a cut in the shape 
of the letter "S" on the back and 
stuff this with spice, thyme, clove and 
bay leaf, chopped fine. Rub tlior- 
oughly inside and out with salt and 
pepper. Make a good stuffing by 
taking one dozen oysters, one cup 
of stale bread crumbs, wet and 
squeezed of all water, one large on- 
ion chopped fine, a half teaspoonful 
of salt and a little black pepper. 
Mix well and fry in a pan witli a 
tablespoonful of butter. Stuff the 
body of the fish and sew up witli 
soft thread. Lard well, that is, rub 
thoroughly with lard and place in 
the oven. Pour over immediately a 
bottle of white wine, and let the 
fish bake well in the wine. In the 
meantime, prepare the following 
sauce: Take one large tablespoonful 
of butter, one large chopped onion, 
one sprig of thyme, one of bay leaf. 
Brown the onions and butter, being 
careful not to burn, and put in three 
tomatoes; add the chopped herbs; 
brown and add a pint of oyster water 
which has been heated by blanching 
■ the oysters. (Blanching means to 
place the oysters on the'-fire in their 
own wat^r and heat thoroughly with- 
out boiling.) Season the sauce with 
pepper and salt to taste. Have 
ready iii, another dish one dozen 
parboiled or blanched oysters and two 
dozen boiled shrimp. Put the fisli 
in the dish in which it is to be served 
garnish with the oysters and shrimp, 
placing them 6-^k.X' the fish,' and 
mingle about a half can of mush- 
rooms.' Haye also' ready a dozen 
nicely- boiled ' crawfish. Garnish the 
fish with these, placing them all 
around, it in the dish'' in which it is 
to be served. Pour the sa,uce over 
all and set', in the oven and' bake a 
few mihiitfe's 'longer and serve hot.- ' 

A Simple Every-Day Recipe For 
Balcing Red Snapper. 

' Red Snapper au Gratin. 

1 Fine S-tound Red Snapper. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 targe Onion. ' 3 Sprigs of ParslSy. 

■ "' 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 COp of Stale Bread Cniml)s. 

% Tea Clip of Water. Salt and. Pepper. 

Select a fine, Idige^flsh, clean and 

wash thoroughly. Make a dressing 



by taking one cup of stale bread, 
wet and squeezed of all water; one 
large onion and three sprigs of par- 
sley. Chop the onions and parsley 
fine and mix with the bread crumbs 
and fry in a spoonful of butter, 
seasoning well with salt and pep- 
per. Stuff the fish and sew up with 
a soft thread. Then rub the fish 
thoroughly with salt and pepper and 
butter. Put small pieces of butter 
all over the fish and add a few pieces 
on the bottom of the baking pan. 
Pour in water to the depth of two 
inches, cover the pan and bake on 
the outside of the oven, about an 
hour and a half. When the fish is 
baked in the oven it partakes more 
of the character of roasted fish. 
Red Snapper & la Chambord. 
Red Snapper a, la Chambord. 
A Fine Red Snapper, 3 Pounds in Weight. 
2 Dozen Oysters. % Can Mushrooms. 

3 Large Tomatoes. 2 Large Onions. 

1 Cup of Stale Bread. 
3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 
2 Bay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 

1 Bottle of White Wine. 
Salt and Pepper. 
Clean and wash the Red Snapper 
carefully. Cut a space six Inches 
square on the surface of the upper 
side of the fish, and carefully remove 
the skin within the enclosed space. 
Then lard this space closely with 
very fine larding needles, and fill in 
with spice, thyme, clove and bay 
leaf, all minced very fine. Rub thor- 
oughly inside and outside with salt. 
Make a good stuffing by taking one 
dozen oysters, one cup of stale bread 
crumbs, wet and squeezed of all wa- 
ter; one large onion, chopped fine; 
a half tablespoonful of salt and black 
pepper to taste. Mix well and fry 
in a pan with a tablespoonful of 
butter. Stuff the body of the fish 
and sew up with soft thread. Lard 
well- and, after rubbing thoroughly 
with the lard, place in the oven. 
Pour over immediately a bottle of 
white wine and let the fish bake well 
in the wine. In the meantime pre- 
pare the following sauce: Take one 
large tablespoonful ,of butter, one 
i large chopped onion, one sprig of 
I thyme, one of bay leaf. :^rb-wn the 
; onions and butter, being careful not 
to burn, and put in three large to- 
matoes. Add the chopped herbs, 
, brown and add the pint of oyster 
i -water, which has been heated witli 
blanching the oysters. (Blanching 
means to pla'oe the oysters on the 
fire in their own water and heat 
thoroughly without boiling.) Sea- 
son the sauce with pepper and salt 
to taste. Put the fish in the dish in 
which it is to be served, and 'gar- 
nish with the oysters, placing them 
over, the fish and mingling between 
about a half can of mushrooms. Af- 



44 



ter garnishing the fish nicely, pour 
the sauce over all and set in the 
oven a few minutes longer and serve 
hot. 

Hed Snapper With Tomato Sauce. 

Red Snapper Si la Sauce Tomate. 
A Fine Red Snapper, 3 Pounds in Weight. 
12 Large Tomatoes or a Can. 
% Can of Muslirooms. 
2 Large Onions. 
3 Sprigs Each of T^yme and Parsley. 
2 Bay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 

M Inch of Garlic, or 1 Clove. 
1 Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 
1 Bottle of White Wine. 
1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter, or Olive OH 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
Salt and Red _Pepper. 

Prepare the fish, following the di- 
rections given in the recipe for Hed 
Snapper a la Crgole to the point of 
larding thoroughly. After larding 
pour over immediately the bottle of 
white wine, and let the fish bake well 
in the wine. If wine is not avail- 
able, use a cup of warm water In- 
stead; but the wine enhances "the 
taste of the dish. When the fish is 
done, put one tablespoonful of olive 
oil or one large tablespoonful of but- 
ter into a saucepan, and one large 
chopped onion and let brown; add 
one tablespoonful of flour, and let 
the same brown. Then take the 
sliced and chopped fresh tomatoes, 
or strain a can of tomatoes in lieu 
of the former, and add to the sauce. 
Add immediately a small glass of the 
best white wine, and a halt can of 
mushrooms chopped fine, place in 
the sauce the bouquet of sweet herbs, 
thyme, bay leaf, and add an inch of 
garlic, minced very fine. Season with 
red pepper only. Pour this sauce 
over the baked fish after placing it 
in the dish in which it is to be 
served; set in the oven a few minutes 
and bring to the table hot. 

Redflsh, Sheepshead and Grouper 
may also be cooked according to this 
recipe. 

A Simple Way of Baking Rcdflsli. 

Poisson Rouge au Gratln. 
6 Slices of RedBsh or a Fish Weighing 
Pounds. 
2 Large Onions. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Butter 
S Sprigs of Thyme i Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A HoUandalse Sauce. 
In families of very moderate means 
thP -RiSflc^ economical to purchase 
the Redfish or Red Snapper by the 
s hce than to buy a whole fish ThI 
liTLZ'^''^, according to the size of 
four o^/ '^ medium-Sized slices, or 
four or five larje slices, will serve 
a family of six. Where the Redflsh 
IS purchased whole it may be ore 
pared for everyday dinner, according 
to the recipe given above for bakinl , 



Red Snapper. When purchased in 
slices, clean the outer edges well of 
the fins, wash and then rub the fish 
well with salt and pepper. Prepare 
some chopped onion and parsley and 
lay in a deep baking pan. Place a 
layer of fish over this and then a 
layer of small lumps of butter and 
chopped parsley and onion. Place 
over this another layer of fish. Cover 
with another layer of chopped pars- 
ley, onions and butter, and place in 
the oven to bake. Bake about an 
hour, basting frequently, and serve 
with a Hollandaise Sauce. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Baked Grouper. 

Grouper au Gratin. 

A Fine Grouper (weight 3 pounds.) 
2 Dozen Oysters. 2 Dozen Boiled Shrimp. 

1 Dozen Boiled Crawfish. 
2 Large Onions. 2 Tablespoontuls of Butter. 

1 Cup of Stale Bread. 
2 Large Tomatoes. % Can of Mushrooms. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Bay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 

1 Bottle of White Wine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and wash the Grouper thor- 
oughly. Make a cut in the shape of 
the letter "S" on the back and stuff 
this with spice, thyme, clove and 
bay leaf, chopped fine. Rub thor- 
oughly inside and out with salt and 
pepper. Make a good stuffing by 
taking one dozen' oysters, one cup 
of stale bread crumbs, wet and 
squeezed -jDf all water, one large on- 
ion, chopped-fine, a halt teaspoonful 
of salt and a little black pepper. Mix 
well and fry in a pan with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Stuff the body 
of the fish and sew up with soft 
thread. Lard well, that is, rub thor- 
oughly with lard and place in the 
oven. Pour over immediately a bot- 
tle of white wine, and let the fish 
bake well in the wine. In the mean- 
time, prepare the following sauce, 
a, la Chambord: Take one large ta- 
blespoonful of butter, one large 
chopped onion, one sprig of thyme, 
one of bay leaf. Brown the onions 
and butter, being careful not to burn, 
and put in three large tomatoes; 
add the chopped herbs; brown and 
add a pint of oyster water, which 
has been heated by blanching the 
oysters. (Blanching means to place 
the oysters on the fire in their own 
water and heat thoroughly with- 
out boiling.) Season the sauce with 
salt and pepper to taste. Have ready 
in another dish one dozen parboiled 
or blanched oysters and two dozen 
boiled shrimps. Put the fish In the 
dish in -which it Is to be served, 
garnish with the oysters and shrimps 
placing them over the fish, and mine- , 
gle between about a half can of 



15 



mushrooms. Have also ready a doz- 
en nicely boiled crawfish. Garnish 
the flsh with these, placing them all 
around it in the dish in which it is 
to be served. Pour the sauce over 
all and set in the oven and bake a 
few minutes longer and serve hot. 
Where economy is desired Grouper 
may be boiled or baked according 
to the more simple methods given 
above for cooking Red Snapper. Sse 
recipes "Boiled Red Snapper" and 
"Red Snapper au Gratin." 

FLOUNDER. 

Sole. 

The Creoles gave to the Flounder, 
one of the finest flsh found in the 
waters of the Mexican Gulf, the 
French name "Sole," because while 
the flsh was somewhat different in 
size and shape, they found that the 
meat of the Flounder was identi- 
cally the same as that of the "Sole" 
found in the waters of the Mediter- 
ranean Sea. Quick to discover and 
appreciate, they applied to the 
Flounder the name "Sole," and adap- 
ted it to the French modes of cook- 
ing the latter flsh, especially apply- 
ing to it the famous old French re- 
cipe "Sole a la Orly." Otherwise in 
New Orleans the Flounder is always 
either tried and served with a sauce 
"a la Tartare." or baked "a, la' Nou- 
velle Orleans," or "a la Normande." 
or served with -a white wine sauce 
as in Baked Sheepshead. (See recipe 
"Baked Sheepshead," or "Casburgot 
au Gratin.") 

Flounder & la Orly, 

Filets de Sole a la Orly, 

6 Filets of Flounder. A Cup ,of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Egg. Bread Crumbs. A Tomato Saure. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Have the fish dealer cut the Floun- 
der in fllets and trim, neatly remov- 
ing all the bones. Beat an egg with 
milk, and dip in the slices of fish. 
Roll in bread crumbs and fry in 
butter. Serve with parsley garnish, 
with a. Tomato Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Flounders & la Tartnre. 

Soles Frites a la Tartare. 

3 Pounds of Flounders. 3 Eggs. 

10 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

A Bunch of Parsley. 1 Sliced Lemon. 

A Sauce a la Tartare. 

Clean and trim the Flounders. 

Beat well ITwo or three raw eggs. 

Have ready a frying pan, with eight 

or ten tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 

Place over the fire. When well 

heated, dip the fish into the eggs, 

roll well and place in the frying pan. 

Cook for about five minutes, turn on 

the other side, and cook about the 

same period. Then drain by plac- 



ing on a heated brown paper. Gar- 
nish a dish with a bed of fried pars- 
ley, lay the Flounders upon it and 
garnish with sliced lemon. Serve 
with Sauce a la Tartare. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Flounder & la Nouvellc Orleans. 

Sole a la Nouvelle Orleans. 
A 3-round Flounder. 
2 Tablespoontnls of Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 6 Allspice. 
1 Sprig of Thyme. 
2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Sprig of Sweet Basil. 
1 Can of Mushrooms. Croutons. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Select a fine, fresh Flounder, par- 
boil, by scalding well after it has 
been cleansed. Slit open in scores 
on top and put in butter and salt, 
and set to bake in an oven. Wlien 
it is two-thirds cooked, take oft 
and pour over a cream sauce made 
of two tablespoonfuls of flour, one 
tablespoonful of butter, spice, 
thyme, parsley, sweet basil and bay 
leaf, a can of mushrooms, all chopped 
fine, and cook about five minues. Af- 
ter pouring this over the flsh, put 
back in the oven and let it bake till 
done, which will be in about flftoen 
minutes. Prepare Croutons, or 
crusts of bread cut in diamond 
shape, fry these in butter and use 
as a garnish for the fish. 

Flounder II la Normande. 

Sole a la Normande. 

A 3-Pound Flounder. 8 Shallots. 

3 Bay Leaves. 3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

1 - Clove of Garlic. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Cups of Bouillon or Water. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 1 Can of Mushrooms. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. Groutons Cut in Dice 

Shape. 

Cut open the Flounder down the 
back. Dig inside under bone to 
right and left, without breaking the 
meat. Chop the bay leaves, thyme 
and clove of garlic very, very fine 
and mix with a half teaspoonful of 
salt and a half teaspoonful of black 
■pepper and a dash of Cayenne. Huh 
the Flounder all over on the inside 
and under the cutting and outside 
with this preparation, seasoning 
thoroughly. Chop the shallots, green 
and white, very fine. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a fiat saucepan 
or stewing dish, and put the shallots 
with the butter. Day the Flounder 
on top of the shallots and butter, 
and let it cook slowly on a slow fire 
for about ten minutes. Then turn 
on the other side and cook ten min- 
utes longer. In the meantime take 
another saucepan and put into It one 
tablespoonful of butter and two of 
flour. Dissolve this immediately 



46 



with two cups of bouillon or water 
so tliait-the sauce will be white. Let 
it cook about five minutes, and then 
add the well -beaten yolks of the 
eggs, and one. can of niushrooms. 
Let all cook ten minutes longer, and 
then take the Flounder out of the 
saucepan in which it has been cook- 
ing and lay on a flat silver dish; 
then mix the sauce in which it has 
been cooking with the mushroom 
sauce. Taste the sauce and add salt 
pepper and Cayenne, according to 
taste. Pour this sauce over the flsh, 
around which you will have placed 
Croutons cut as dice and fried in 
the dish, and then cover the fish and 
put it in the bake oven for fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot in the dish in 
which it was baked. 

Baked Flounder, 
Sole au Gratin. 

A 3-Pouiiia Flounder. 1 Large Onion. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
2 TablespoonJrls of Flour. 
1 Bay Leaf. i Sprig of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs jf Parsley. 
1/, Bottle of Wblte .Vine. 6 Fresh Tomatoes. 
2 Doz'jn Lalie Shrimp. 
1 Dozen Oyst'jrs. ^ Can of Mushrooms. 
Clean and wash the fish; place on a 
platter; chop one large onion fine, 
2 Crackers. Ta-j Toast Cut in Dice Shape, 
rub the fish first with salt and blacK 
pepper, then take a large and deep 
kitchen pan, pJace within a table- 
spoonful of butter, the chopped on- 
ion, bay leaf and thyme. Place the 
fish on top of this and pour over a 
half bottle of white wine. Cover 
with another close pan and put the 
whole on top of the oven (not on 
the inside). Bake from the bottom. 
When it begins to boil from below, 
turn the fish over carefully without 
breaking, and let it bake on the other 
side. Take a saucepan and put with- 
in a tablespoonful of butter and mix 
thoroughly with two tablespoonfuls 
of floi'r. Let it brown without burn- 
ing, and then add six fresh toma- 
toes, skinned and chopped fine'; or a 
half can. Add two dozen Lake 
Shrimp that have been cleaned well 
and scalded, a half can of mush- 
rooms, salt and pepper to taste. Let 
d,ll cool: for about five minutes and 
then water with the gravy in which 
the flsh is cooking. Mix well and 
cover the flsh with it. Parboil one 
dozen oysters, and when the fisji is 
cooked, set it in the dish in which it 
is to be served and place the oysters 
all around it on small slices of dry 
toast. Cover the flsh alternately 
with the shrimp and oysters, as a 
garnish over and around it. Mash 
two crackers into crumbs and 
sprinkle over it; also some finely- 
chopped parsley. Place small bits 
of butter alternately over the fish; 
set the dish in the -oven, and bake 



with a quick fire until brown. Serve 
immediately. 

POMPANO. 

Pompano is the crowning glory of 
tlie fish of the New Orleans market. 
It is peculiar to the waters of the 
Gulf of Mexico, Mississippi Sound ana 
the Louisiana Grand Isle shore. The 
word Pompano is derived from the 
Spanish "Pampano," signifying a 
peculiar greenish-tinted plant, and 
the name "Pompano" was given to 
the flsh by the early Spanish flsher- 
men on account of the delicate 
greenish color which- distinguishes 
it. Nothing to be compared with the 
Pompano exists in the Northern, 
Eastern or Western waters, and no 
stranger leaves New Orleans without 
having tasted once of this delightful 
flsh. The New Orleans Pompano has 
a world-wide fame. The Pompano 
used to come in the early spring and 
remain but a few weeks, hence the 
flrst flsh that appeared in the French 
Market were eagerly sought after 
as a great luxury. Pompano are 
more plentiful now and are to be 
found in the market almost all the 
year round. 

Pompano & In Mnltre d'Hotel. 

A Fine Pompano, or Small Ones in Weiglit 

to Equal Three Pounds. 

A Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

A Sliced Lemon. Parsley to Gamisb. 

Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. _, 

There is only one way to cook 
Pompano and that is to broil it and 
serve with a. Sauce k la Maitre 
d'Hotel. 

To broil the Pompano split the flsh 
in the middle of the back if the fish 
is large; if small, broil whole. Sea- 
son well by rubbing with salt and 
pepper, mixed with a little sweet oil. 
Put the Pompano on the broiler and 
see that it is browned well on both 
sides, using always the double wire 
broiler. When done, place in a 
heated dish (heat by placing in a 
bain-marie or hot water bath and 
dry thoroughly). Butter the fish 
nicely and squeeze the juice of a lem- 
on over it. Garnish with parsley and 
sliced lemon, and serve with a Sauce 
ft la Maitre d'Hotel. (See recipe.) 
You will have a dish that a king 
might envy. 

SPANISH MACKEREL. 

Maquereau Espagnol. 
Spanish Mackerel is another deli- 
cate and delicious flsh, only to be 
found in the waters of the Gulf of 
Mexico. The Gulf of Mexico was, i" 
early Creole days, a part of the vast 
expanse known as "The Waters of 
the Spanish Main." The early Span- 
ish flshermen found here a flsh resem-' 



47 



bling the mackerel, but of a dainty 
delicacy of .flavor far superior to any 
mackerel yet known to epicures, and 
tliey gave to it tlie name "Spanish 
Mackerel." It stands on an equal 
footing with the Pompano in the es- 
timation of epicures. The Spanish 
Mackerel should always be broiled. 
It is a splendid breakfast dish and a 
famous entrSe at dinners. 

Broiled Spanisli Mackerel, 

Maquereau Bspagnol GrillS. 

A Spanisli Mackerel, or 3 Pounds Weight. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Jnice ot 1 Lemon. 1 Sliced Lemon. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Prepare in the same manner as 
the Pompano, serving whole. "Where 
the fish is large, split downwards, in 
the middle of the back, and broil in 
the same manner as the Poxnpano 
and place on a dish garnished with 
pars'ley and -slices of lemon. Serve 
witli a Sauce a, la Maitre d'Hotel. 
(See recipe.) These are special re- 
cipes, used only in broiling Pompano 
and Spanish Mackerel. 

BLUE PISH. 

L,e Poisson Bleu. 

A Fine Bluefish, or Fish in Quantity to 
Equal 3 Pounds. 
1 Tahlespoonful ot Olive Oil. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Sliced Lomon. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Parsley to Garulsh. 
Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. 
The Bluefish is a splendid fish of 
the salt-water variety and much 
sought after. It should' always be 
broiled. Split the fish in the middle 
of the back if the fish is large; if 
small, broil whole. Season well by 
rubbing with salt and pepper, mixed 
v/ith a little sweet oil. Put the 
Pompano on the broiler and see that 
it is browned well on both sides, 
using always the double wire broil- 
er. Wlien done, place in a heated 
dish (heat by placing in a bain- 
marie or hot-water bath and dry 
thoroughly). Butter the fish nicely 
and squeeze the juice of a lemon 
over it. Garnish with parsley and 
sliced lemon, and serve with a Sauce 
a, la Maitre d'Hotel. (See recipe.) 

TROUT. 

De la Truite. 

Of fine and delicate flavor, the 
Green Trout and Speckled Trout are 
, great favorites in the New Orleans 
cuisines. Trout is especially recOTi- 
mended as a breakfast dish, nothing 
being more appetizing than this for 
a morning portion. It may be 
broiled or boiled. Tenderloin Trout 
cut into filets, or cutlets. Is also 



fried and makes a most palatable 
dish. We have the Suit-Water Trout 
and the Fresh-Water Trout, and both 
are excellent. 

Boiled Grecu Trout. 

Truite Verte Bouiliie. 

6 Medium- Sized Trout, or 3 Large Ones. 
A Keule of Boiling Water. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of thj-me. 1 Sprig of Oiilun. 

A Clove of Garlic (if desired.) 10 Cloves. 

2 Dozen Allspice. 

A Seedless Red Pepper Pod. 

A Bit of Lemon Peel. 

Parsley aud Lemou to Garnish. 

Select fine fresh Trout. C.ean and 
wash the ■ fish thoroughly. Make a 
small letter "S" with knife on the 
back; pass twine around the body of 
the fish so as to secure it. Never 
wrap or tie in a cloth. Have ready 
a kettle of boiling water and thVow 
in a sprig of onion, thyme and bay 
leaf, eight or ten cloves, about two 
dozen allspice, all mashed fine; a bit 
of lemon peel and a red pepper pod. 
When the water has boiled long 
enougli to iiave extracted the fiavor 
of these ingredients, drop tlie fish in 
carefully, so as to avoid breaking, 
tet it boil about ten minutes and 
then take out carefully. Put into a 
strainer and drain quickly. Place 
on a platter on a bed of parsley, 
with chopped parsley thrown over, 
and garnish with parsley and sliced 
lemon. Serve with a drawn butter 
Hollandaise Sauce, or Sauce Geno- 
ise. ' (See recipe.) If the flavor of 
the spices is not desired the fish 
may be boiled simply in the salt and 
pepper water, with sprigs of pars- 
ley. 

The Creoles add a clove of garlic 
to the boiling water, but this is ac- 
cording to taste. 

Broiled Green Trout, 

Truite Verte GrillSe. 

6 Medium-Sized Trout, or 3 Large Ones. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Sliced Lemou and Parsley to Garnish. 

Follow implicitly the directions 
given under the heading "General 
Rule for Broiling Fish." (See re- 
cipe.) Clean the fish witlaout cut- 
ting off the head or tail. Broil 
whole over a clear, moderate fire. 
Before placing on the broiler rub 
the fish well with salt and pepper, 
mixed in a little sweet oil or a little 
butter oil. If the fish is small, broil 
on a quick, clear fire; if large, as 
mentioned above, the fire must be 
moderate, or the outside of the fish 
will be cliarred before the inside is 
done. When the fish is done through 
and through, which can easily be de- 
termined by the fiesh parting easily 
from the bone, remove the gridiron 
from the fire and loosen the fish from 



48 



the broiler with a knife, being care- 
ful not to break the flesh. Then 
place the hot dish over the fish, and, 
with a dexterous movement, turn 
the two back again, thus separating 
the gridiron from the fish and plac- 
ing the latter in the dish. Butter 
well, season with a little pepper 
and salt, if deemed necessary, and 
pour over a tablespoonfill of chopped' 
parsley and lemon juice. Serve with 
garnishes of parsley and sliced 
lemon. 

Speckled Trout. 

Truites GrillSes. 

Filets of Speckled Trout. 

2 TaTjlespoontuls of Butter. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

The Speckled Trout is usually 
served in tenderloin steaks or filets. 
Skin and cut the fish, after cleaning, 
into filets or square pieces, slicing 
across the back. Remove all the 
bones and rub well with pepper and 
salt, and a little sweet oil mixed with 
the pepper and salt. .Place on the 
gridiron or double broiler and broil 
carefully, turning the broiler fre- 
quently to prevent the fish being 
charred before it is done. When 
nicely browned, place on a bed of 
parsley and garnish with sliced lem- 
on. Serve with Sauce 3. la Tartare. 
(See recipe.) 

Fried Speckled Trout. ' 

Truite Frite. 

6 Filets of Speckled Trout. 

The Tolks of 2 Eggs. 1 Cup of Milk. 

1 Onion. 4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

2 Gills of Mustard. 

14 Pint of Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Select fine Spotted Trout. Skin 
the fish and clean thoroughly. Then 
cut the Trout into filets or steaks. 
Take the yolks of two eggs and a 
little milk and beat together. Add 
salt and pepper and soak the Trout 
well in this, rolling over and over. 
Then take it out of the pan and roll 
in cracker or bread crumbs. Pat 
the fish a little all over with your 
hands and then fry in the same man- 
ner as Croakers. Serve on a bed of 
fried parsley, with garnish of sliced 
lemon, with the following Sauce a, la 
Tartare: Take one large onion and 
four or five sprigs of parsley and 
chop fine. Sque;ze the juice out 
well and parboil, chopping jine and 
squeezing out the water. Prepare 
about one-half pint of Mayonnaise 
Dressing (see recipe) and add about 
two gills of mustard. Mix well and 
add to the parsley and onion and 
juices. Serve the sauce cold. 



Cutlets of FlBll. 

Filets de Poisson. 
6 Tenderloin Trout Cutlets. 1 Cup of Milk. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 
A Mayonnaise Sauce, or Sauce a la Tartare. 
Cut the fish (Tenderloin Trout) 
into filets or square pieces; remove 
all the bones, dip in milk which has 
been freely salted and peppered, and 
roll in flour; drop into the well- 
heated lard so that the filets will 
swim and fry to a golden brown. 
When done, drain on a brown pa- 
per and serve on a bed of fried 
parsley, with garnishes of parsley 
and sliced lemon. With these cut- 
lets serve either a Mayonnaise Sauce, 
a Sauce a la Tartare or a Tomato 
Sauce, preferably either of the 
former. (See recipes for sauces.) 

PERCH. 

De la Perohe. 

The Perch is a fresh-water fish of 
delightful flavor. It should always 
be boiled or broiled. 

Boiled Perch. 

Perche Bouille. 

6 Pine Fresh Percli, 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Onion. 

1 Clove of Garlic (if desired). lO.CloTes. 

2 Dozen Allspice. A Bit of Lemon Peel. 

1 Red Pepper Pod, Without the Setid. 

Parsley and I^emon to Garnish. 

Select fine, fresh Perch. Clean 
and wash the fish well. Make a small 
letter "S" with a knife on the back. 
Pass a. piece of twine around the 
body, so as to secure it. Have ready 
a kettle of boiling water, and throw 
in a sprig of onion, thyme and bay 
leaf, the cloves and allspice, mashed 
fine, a bit of lemon peel and the 
red pepper pod. When the water 
has boiled long enough to have fully 
extracted the flavor of these ingred- 
ients, drop the fish in carefully, s:) 
as to avoid breaking. Let it boil tea 
minutes, and then take out carefully 
and drain quickly in a strainer. Place 
in a dish on a bed of parsley, sprinkle 
chopped parsley over it and garnish 
prettily with parsley and sliced lem- 
on. The spices may be omitted if 
the flavor is not agreeable to some, 
and the Perch may be simply boiled 
in the salt and pepper water with 
the sprigs of parsley thrown in. 
Serve with a Drawn Butter Sauce 
or Saiice Genoise. (See recipes.) 

Broiled Perch. 

Perche GrillSe. 

6 Fine Perch. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Sliced Lemon. Parsley .to Garnish. 

Proceed in the same manner Indi- 
cated under the heading "General 



49 



Rule for Broiling Fish." (See re- 
cipe.) If large, split the fish down 
the middle of the back, else broil 
whole. Serve with garnishes of 
parsley and sliced lemon. A row of 
radishes nicely dressed is often add- 
ed to the garnish when It is made 
of lettuce leaves, and sliced, hard- 
boiled eggs. 

CROAKERS. 

Des Grognards. 

12 Small or Six Large Croakers. 
I Pint of Milk. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Croakers are a famous breakfast 
fish. They are of smaller size than 
the Trout generally, therefore, no 
definite rule can be given as to the 
number required to serve a family 
of six, all depending upon the size 
.of the fish. They are most delicious 
wRen fried. To fry the Croaker 
properly fill a small pan with milk, 
and add salt and pepper to taste. 
Roll the Croakers in the milk and 
then take out and roll in dry, sifted 
flour. Have ready a pan of greise 
that has been heated very hot with- 
out boiling. Brop in the Croakers 
and cook till brown. The fish must 
swim in the grease. Lift carefully 
out of the frying pan and serve on a 
bed of fried parsley, with garnishes 
of sliced lemon. 

Many persons roll the Croakers in 
cornmeal, but the above recipe Is far 
daintier and more palatable. 

SACALiAIT-PATASSAS. 

These are delightfully flavored fish 
of the small variety found In the 
Louisiana waters. They are excel- 
lent either fried, as in recipe for 
Croakers, or broiled whole. 

FISH BALLS. 

Boulettes de Poisson. 

The Remains of Any Fish. 1 Large Onion. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Egg. Bread Crumbs. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Take the remains of any fish, sea- 
son well with chopped parsley, on- 
ions, thyme and Cayenne, and a 
touch of garlic if the flavor is liked. 
Then mince all well, adding a taJDle- 
spoonful of butter and mix with one- 
third bread crumbs, mashed well. 
Beat the yolk and white of an egg 
and roll the balls, shaped in the form 
of a cake, in this. Pat with bread 
crumbs and ifry in butter to a pale 
brown. 



Fish Chowder. 

MS16e Creole. 

2 Pounds of Fresh Flsli, Preferably Redflsli 

or Sheepshead. 

3 Medium-Sized Potatoes. 1 Onion. 

1 ClOTe of Garlic. 
3 Sprigs Each of Thym,e, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf. 
V4 Can of Tomatoes. % Cup of Milk. 

1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

2 Ounces of Salt Pork or Ham Chopped Very 
Flue. 
Grated Oyster Crackers. 
Salt, Cayenne and Black Pepper to Taste. 

Cut two pounds of fresh fish of 
any kind, preferably the Redflsh or 
Sheepshead. Take three medium- 
sized potatoes and one onion and cut 
into slices. Take two ounces of salt 
pork, wash well and chop very fine. 
Put the pork into a frying pan, and 
when it is hot add the sliced onion. 
Smother slightly, and add chopped 
thyme, parsley, bay leaf, one clove of 
garlic, very fine, and Cayenne and 
black pepper to taste. Let this sim- 
mer for about ten minutes longer. 
Pour over this one quart of boiling 
water, and add fish and half a can of 
tomatoes and the potatoes. Season 
to taste, and cover the pan and let 
the contents simmer for half an 
hour. A half cup of milk may bei 
added, if desired. Take oyster 
crackers, place in a bowl and pour 
the chowder over and serve hot. 

LOUISIANA BEILS. . ' 

De I'Anguille. 

Few of the American residents 
of New Orleans know the possibili- 
ties of preparing a most delightful 
dish that lurks in the often-re- 
jected eel. But the ancient Creoles 
inherited the taste of their- French 
ancestors, who considered eels a del- 
icacy, and have evolved from the 
traditional recipes of old France 
pleasing and various ways of serv- 
ing this fish. The most generally 
used in households is called 

dels en Matelote, 

Or, More Familiarly, Matelote 
d'Anguille. 

2 Pounds of Eel, or a 2-Pound Pish. 

1 Large Onion. 

• Pint of Button Onions. 1 Clove of Garlle. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Glass of Good Claret. 1 Can of Mushrooms. 
1 Pint of Oyster Water. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of T?hyme. 

Croutons to Garnish. 

Matelote d'Anguille is a famous old 
Creole dish. The following is the old 
Creole recipe, and when once eaten 
after this mode of preparation, there 
is seldom a refusal to give the eel 
its due credit as a dish fit for the 
most fastidious gourmet. It should 



50 



always be remembered that the larg- 
est eels are not the best for eating. 
The Creoles always reject those tak- 
en from the river, near the wharves. 
The eels found in the bay and lakes 
are the most r6cherch6. 

Clean and skin the eel, using 
about two pounds. Cut in one Inch 
or two-inch pieces, as desired. Take 
one large onion and a half pint of 
button onions, or a clove of garlic, 
and chop fine. Make a roux with one 
tablespoonful of lard, adding, when 
hot, the chopped onions and parsley, 
and gradually adding, when these 
begin to brown, the two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. Pour in one good glass 
of Claret and a can of mushrooms. 
Add a pint of oyster stock or oyster 
water, and let cook a while. Season 
to taste with Cayenne and salt, add- 
ing bay leaf and thyme. When it 
boils, add the eels that have been 
thoroughly cleansed and placed in 
cold water and allowed to stand 
about fifteen minutes. When these 
are added to the matelote, let it 
simmer about an hour. Serve with 
fancy garnish of Crotltons. 

Fried Elels, 

Anguilles Frites. 
A 2-Pound Eel. 2 Eggs. 

Maslied Bread Crumbs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Clean and skin the eel and place 
In boiling water and vinegar till 
thoroughly disgorged. Cut into 
lengths of two inches. Wipe dry 
with a clean towel. Beat two eggs 
well and add mashed bread crumbs. 
Roll the eel well in this preparation 
and fry in hot lard, following im- 
plicitly the directions given for fry- 
ing, and remembering that the flsh 
must ajways swim in the grease. 
Drain of all grease and serve on a 
bed of parsley. 

Broiled ISela. 

Anguilles GrillSes. 
2 Pounds of Eel. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Teaspoonfnl of Black Pepper. 
% Teaspoonful of Salt. 
A Drawn Butter Sauce, or Sauce a la Tartare. 
Clean and skin the eel as for fry- 
ing. Cut in two-inch pieces and 
boil till disgorged. Then roll in oil 
and pepper and salt. Mix well and 
broil quickly over a clear flre. Serve 
with melted or Drawn Butter Sauce 
and pickles, or a Sauce a, la Tartare. 

Eels a la Mattre d'Hotel. 

Anguilles a. la Maltre d'Hotel. 

2 Pounds of Eel. 1 Sprig of Tbyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 6 Cloves. i Dozen Allspice. 

1 Onion Chopped Pine. ] Clove of Garlic. 

A Sauce a la Tartare. 
A Half Cup of Lemon or Citron Juice. 

Fi-led Potato Balls. 
Cut and clean the eel as directed 



and boil about twenty minutes in 
salt and water, putting a great quan- 
tity of salt into the kettle, and add- 
ing the thyme, bay leaf, cloves, all- 
spice, chopped onion, garlic and a 
glass of Claret. Remove the eela 
after cooking twenty minutes and 
serve on a dish garnished with pars- 
ley and fried potato balls. Serve with 
a Sauce a, la Maltre d'Hotel (see re- 
cipe), only be careful to add about a 
half cup of citron or lemon juice to 
the sauce. 

Eels & la Foulette. 

Anguilles k la Poulette. 

2 Pounds of Eel. 1 Cup of Hot Vinegar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Glass of White Wine. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Sffeet Basil, 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Onion Minced Very Fine. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. Juice of 2 Lemons. 
A Dash of Cayenne. Salt and Pepper to Taste. , 

Croutons and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Clean and skin the eels and put 
in a pot of boiling water. To be sure 
that they disgorge thoroughly add a 
cup of hot vinegar. After boiling 
fifteen minutes, take them out and 
cut into three-inch pieces. Take one 
tablespoonful of butter, put into a 
frying pan, and add the eels and one 
can of mushrooms poured over. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
smoothly, in butter as the eels be- 
gin to fry. Pour over, when this 
begins to brown, a glassful of white 
wine; and add parsley, thyme, bay 
leaf, sweet basil, and an onion 
minced like the herbs, very flne. As 
the grease rises, floating, skim it 
off. Add a little Cayenne, and salt 
to taste, if necessary. When quite 
done, take the yolks of three eggs 
and mix thoroughly with the juice 
of two lemons. Take the eels off the 
flre and add the lemon juice and eggs 
and be careful not to set back on the 
fire when once tlifese are added, or 
the eggs will curdle. Place on a dish 
and garnish with CroQtons and slices 
of lemon and serve hot. 

STUVGAREE. 

De la Raie. 
The Stingaree is a fish that the 
Americans laugh at, not dreaming 
of the possibilities for a delicate 
dish that lurks within its wings. 
The Creoles, following in the wake of 
their French ancestors, who ate the 
Stingaree found in the waters of the 
Mediterranean, have evolved a dif- 
ferent dish from the old French cui- 
siniSres, but one that holds its own 
even among the many distinguished 
French critics and gourmets who 
have visited our shores. It is called 
Rale au Beurre Noir. 



Stingnree au Benrre Nolr. 

Raie au Beurre Noir, 

2 rounds of Eel. 1 Cup of Hot Vinegar. 

1 Tablespoontnl ot Butter. 
-1 -Can of - Mushrooms. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Glass of White Wine. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Sweet Basil. 

2 Sprigs of PiirBley. 

1 Onion Minced Very Fine. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs- Juice of 2 Lemons. 

A Dash of Cayenne, Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Croutons and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Take a fine young Stingaree and 
cut oft the tail. Cut the wings from 
the body and throw away the rest 
of the fish. Throw the wings into 
boiling, water and parboil them 
When boiled ten minutes, talce them 
offi the water and then take all the 
skin off. The flesh will then become 
as white as snow. Put one table- 
spoonful of butter in a frying pan 
and let it brown without burning. 
When a nice coffee color, add a hand- 
ful of chopped parsley and let it 
brown for a half minute. Then add 
the juice of one lemon or a spoonful 
of French vinegar. Pour this over 
the flsh, salt and pepper to taste, 
and serve hot. This is a dish much 
affected by Creole connoisseurs. 

Fried Sting^aree. 

Raie Frite. 

A Fine Toung Stingaree. 
1 TaWespoonful of Butter. 
A H'andful of Chopped Parsley. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon, or 1 Spoon of French 
Vinegar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Prepare the Stingaree wings as di- 
rected in the above recipe. Cut 
it into square pieces of about three 
inches, and let these soak in the vin- 
egar which has been charged "with 
the salt and minced parsley. Then 
roll in egg and bread crumbs and 
fry in boiling lard. Drain and serve 
on a bed of fried parsley, with a 
Sauce a. la Poivrade. (See recipe.) 

Stingaree With Caper Sauce. 

Raie Sauce aux Capres. 

A Fine Young Stingaree. 

A Pint of French Vinegar. 

A Handful of Parsley Minced Very Fine. 

A Teaspoonful of Salt. Parsley to Garnish. 

A Sauce Poivrade. 

Cut off the tail of the Stingaree. 
Cut off the wings, and throw the 
rest of the fish away. Throw the 
wings into boiling water charged 
with salt, and parboil them for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Then take 
them out ot the water aiid skin 
thoroughly. Place in a heated dish 
and pour over a Caper Sauce. (See 
recipe.) - ' 



Stingarettes, 

Raitons. 

A Fine Young Stingaree. A Caper Sauce. 
Salt and Boiling Water. 
This nam.e is given to the little 
Stingarees. They are prepared just 
like the larger ones, the wings only 
being used. These are soaked in 
vinegar and a little salt,- and then 
fried, after being rolled in bread 
crumbs and beaten egg. Place on a. 
bed of fried parsley and serve. 

ROB. 

Oeufs de Poisson. 

1 Dozen Roe. 2 Tahlespoonfuls of Butter. 
The Juice of a Lemon. 
Lemon Sliced in Quarters. 

Fish eggs are a great delicacy for 
the reason that it is not often that 
sufficient can be bought to supply a 
dinner or breakfast table. The only- 
eggs of fish that are used as an epi- 
curean dish in New Orleans are the 
Roe of the Green Trout. These are 
exceedingly fine and delicate and are 
prepared after the following man- 
ner: First wash the eggs well and 
cut out fibres; butter a silver dish or, 
if you have not one, a nice agate, 
and lay the roe in the dish. Split 
them open, if large, and put a dot 
of butter on top of each. Sprinkle 
nicely with salt and pepper; place 
in the oven, bake a few minutes, 
and serve hot with lemon juice. 

Roe are also used to garnish a 
dish of flsh whenever the eggs can 
be obtained in sufficient quantity. 

FROGS. 

Des Grenouilles. 

Like their French ancestors, Frog 
legs are highly prized as a delicacy 
by the ancient Creoles. Properly 
cooked, they are much more deli- 
cate than chicken and a great dish 
at rficherchS dinners. It must be 
remembered that only the hind legs 
of the frogs are used. These are 
usually sold, cleaned and skinned in 
the French Market. But if caught 
by the small boys of the household 
or the amateur fisherman and 
brought home to be cleaned, the legs 
must be first skinned and then 
thrown into boiling water for five 
minutes. Then take them out and 
put in cold water. When cold, take 
out of the water, and wipe dry, 
with a clean towel. Th'ey are now 
ready for cooking. 

Tlie Pieayuire Frog. 

When the Picayune Frog first made 

, its advent in New Orleans as the 

! "Weather Prophet" of this old and 

I faithful journal, the enthusiasm 

! throughout the city was very great. 

■ "Picayune Teas," "Picayune Souve- 

' nir Pins," with the picture of our 



52 



Frog in all his various garbs as 
"Weather Prophet," became the fash- 
ion of the hour. No entertainment, 
no reunion, no fair was considered 
complete without the presence of the 
Picayune Prog. The Frog soon be- 
came the "Mascot" of every chari- 
table and philanthropic entertain- 
ment, the booth at which he was in- 
vited to take up his headquarters 
generally carrying the fair. So 
great was the enthusiasm that one 
fair lady originated the "Picayune 
Frog Lemonade" in his honor, anoth- 
er originated the "Picayune Cake," 
and so on. At this juncture a fa- 
mous old chef, residing in the French 
Quarter, unable to control his en- 
thusiasm for our distinguished little 
weather prophet, who had left the 
swamps and bayous of this old Cre- 
ole State to take up his abode in a 
great newspaper office, complimented 
him with an original dish, modeled 
up'on the old French preparation of 
a century ago, and named it in his , 
honor. 

With the dish the old chef sent 
the following recipe. It has been 
tried and is acknowledged through- 
out New Orleans to be the most de- 
lightful manner of cooking Frogs: 

Picayune Frogs 21 la Creole, 

A Half Dozen Picayune Frogs.. 
3 Eggs. A Cup of Sifted Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
2 Gills of Milk or Fresb Cream. 
% Teaspoonful of Salt. 
14 of an Onion Chopped Very Fine. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Take a half dozen Picayune Frogs, 
the more delicate the better. Cut 
off the hind legs and skin. Scald the 
legs about four minutes in boiling 
water, adding salt and lemon juice 
to the water. Then take out and dry 
with a clean towel. Beat the yolks 
an>l whites of two or three eggs, 
and mix in bread crumbs sifted. 
Have ready a pot of heated lard. 
Rub the Frog legs well with pepper 
and salt, and put into the pot of 
hot lard. Let them fry to a nice 
golden brown. Then make a sauce 
as follows: Take one tablespoonful 
of flour, one very large tablespoonful 
of butter, two gills of fresh milk o'- 
cream, and a half teaspoonful of 
salt. Put the butter in a saucepan 
over the Are. As soon as it melts, 
add the flour, which as been rubbed 
smoothly. Stir in gradually, and 
when blended, add by degrees the 
boiling milk, stirring constantly to 
prevent burning. Then take a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a 
half of a chopped onion that has beei 
well grated. Have ready two fresh 
eggs, beaten in a bowl. Warm the 
Progs' legs in the sauce, and when 
it begins to simmer stir the sauce 



briskly into the eggs. Return to the 
back of the stove a minute or two, 
being careful not to let the sauce 
boil after the eggs have been added, 
else they will curdle the sauce. Serve 
hot, with the compliments of the 
Picayune. 

Frogs & la Fonlctte 

Grenouilles &. la Poulette 

6 Frog Leg!,. 

2 Tablespoonfuls uf Butter, 

% Can of Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoon Flour. 

1 Lemon. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and skin the Frogs' legs and 
cut them in small pieces of about an 
inch in size. Have ready a steiv pot 
and put in the Frogs' legs, with salt 
and pepper to taste, and half a lemon 
cut fine. Cover well with water and 
let it cook till the meat is tender. 
When cooked, drain and put the meat 
aside and make a sauce as follows: 
Take one tablespoonful of butter, two 
spoonfuls of flour; rub the flour 
smoothly and put in a sauce pan 
with the butter to melt. Add two 
cups of water and stir well. When it 
begins to. boil well, add a, half can of 
mushrooms. Season with salt and 
Cayenne. Then add the frogs; sea- 
son again to taste, and let this boil 
ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two 
raw eggs well, take the frogs off th3 
fire and stir in the yolks thoroughly. 
Add the juice of one-half lemon and 
serve. 

Frogs Saute fl la Creole. 

Grenouilles Sautfees i, la Creole. 

6 Frog Legs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

3 Large Onions. 

6 Fresh Tomatoes or a Half Can. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Bay' Leaf. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

6 Green Sweet Peppers. 

Cup of Consomme or Boiling Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the Frogs' legs. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce- 
pan and add the legs. Let this 
brown well, being careful not to 
burn. After ten minutes of very 
slow cooking on a good fire, take 
three large onions and slice them 
and let them brown with the frogs. 
Then add one-half dozen nice large 
fresh tomatoes, or a half can; cover 
and let these brown. Cook very 
slowly, adding salt and pepper to 
taste, thyme, bay leaf, two cloves 
of garlic, all chopped very fine In- 
deed. Let the mixture smother 
slowly over the fire, and, if pos- 
sible, add one-half dozen green 
sweet peppers sliced very fine, being 
careful ' to extract all the seeds. 
Stir well and let it smother twenty 
minutes longer, stirring frequently 
to prevent burning. When well 



:.53 



smothered, that is, when the Frogs' 
legs are tender, which Is easily as- 
certained by touching with a fork 
add one cup of broth, if you have 
it, or consommfi; if not, add one 
cup of boiling water, and let it cook 
again for half an hour very slowly 
and well covered. Serve hot. 

Pried Frogs, 

Grenouilles Frites. 
6 Frog Legs. 
% Cup of Lemon Juice and a Teaspoon of Salt. 

2 Eggs. 1 Cup of Sifted Bread Crumbs. 
Parsley, Sliced Lemon and Radishes to Gar- 
nish. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Scald the Frogs' legs about three 
minutes in boiling water and add a 
half cup of lemon Juice and salt. 
Take out of the water ani dry 
with a clean towel. Season with 
salt and pepper and dip into a bat- 
ter made of the well beaten yolks 
and whites of two eggs and sifted 
bread crumbs. Pat the Frogs well 
and drop into the lard, heated to 
a boiling point, and fry to a golden 
brown. Take them from the lard and 
drain well by placing on soft brown 
paper, heated. Place a snow-white 
folded napkin in a dish, and lay the 
frogs upon it and garnish with fried 
parsley and sliced lemon, or place 
the Frogs in a bed of fried parsley 
laid in the dish and garnish with 
decorated radishes and sliced lem- 
ons. 

Broiled Frogs. 

Grenouilles Grill§es. 

- 6 Piog Legs. 

A Cup of Boiling Lemon Juice and Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

1 Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Lettuce Leaves and Paisley, or Sliced Lemons 

and Olives to Garnish. 

Clean and skin the Frogs; scald 



well in boiling lemon. Juice and salt. 
Dry with a clean towel. Mix thor- 
oughly a little black pepper, salt 
and olive oil, or butter melted, and 
rub the frogs thoroughly, rolling 
them over and over. Take out and 
put on a double wire broiler, being 
careful to turn frequently to pre- 
vent scorching. When done, place 
in a platter of delicate lettuce leaves 
or parsley and garnish with sliced 
lemons and olives. 



Stew^ed Frogs. 

Grenouilles en Fricass§e. 

1 Dozen Frog Legs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. % Pint of Water. 

% Pint of Oyster Water. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Sweet Marjoram. 

10 Allspice. 1 Clove. 

The Yollc of an Egg. Croutons. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 

Take the legs of one dozen frogs 
and prepare the same as for frying. 
Take a tablespoonful of butter and 
put in a frying pan. "When it begins 
to melt, add a tablespoonful of flour 
and stir constantly. "When it be- 
gins to brown nicely, add a half pint 
of water and a pint of oyster water. 
Throw in the Frog legs as it begins 
to boil, and add salt and pepper, a 
little Cayenne, a sprig of thyme, 
bay leaf and sweet marjoram, eight 
Or ten allspice, one clove. Let it 
simmer about fifteen minutes and 
take off the fire. Have ready the 
yolk of a beaten egg and add, blend- 
ing well, and serve immediately with 
garnishes of Crofltons, and fried in 
a little butter, with oysters laid 
upon them. 



CHAPTER IX. 



SHBLIi FISH. 



Des Crustacfis. 



Under this heading are classed the 
shell fish found in our Louisiana wa- 
ters and those of the Mississippi 
Sound adjacent to New Orleans. 
Oysl:ers, Shrimp, Crabs, and Crawfish 
and the famous Green Turtle — these 
are the delightful varieties that are 
common articles of food among the 



people and which are to be had for 
the fishing. 

That delicious bivalve, the Oyster, 
has its home among us. Everyone 
wliD litis visited New Orleans in win- 
ter l'.:n noted the exceptionally pal- 
atable oysters that are sold in every 
restaurant and by the numerous 



-'54 



small vendors on almost every other 
corner or s6 throughout the lower 
section of the city." In the caf§s, 
tha hotels, the oyster saloons, they 
are served in every conceivable 
'style' known to epicures and caterers. 
The oyster beds adjacent to New 
Orleans send to our markets the 
famous Bayou Cook and Barataria 
Oysters, eagerly sought and highly 
■prized for exquisite flavor and un- 
surpassed in quality. The Missis- 
sippi Sound is well-nigh stocked 
with oysters from one end to the 
other, and millions of cans are 
shipped yearly from Biloxi and other 
points to every part of the United 
States. And so with our celebrated 
Lake apd River Shrimp. No oysters 
are caught in the Mississippi Sound 
between May and September, because 
they are somewhat milky and con- 
sidered unfit for use, and so strict 
are the laws governing the uses of 
dredges in the Sound that a watch- 
man accompanies each dredge-boat 
to see that no attempt is made to 
use the dredge in less than fourteen 
feet of water, the idea being that 
dredges, shall not be used where the 
water is sufficiently shallow to ad- 
mit of their being dug of tongs. 
Thus are preserved, in all their 
splendid flavor and almost inex- 
haustible supply, our oyster beds, 
and while the yearly increase in con- 
sumption of this delicious bivalve 
has tended to alarm scientists and 
to awaken an interest in the ques- 
tion as to whether the American oys- 
ter beds may not likely become de- 
pleted, scientists acquainted with 
the oyster beds on our Gulf coast 
say that for domestic purposes there 
are sufHcient oysters to supply the 
United States. The railroad facili- 
ties for handling oysters can hardly 
be improved, and fresh and fine and 
ready to be eaten, they arrive in our 
markets. The Bayou Cook and Bar- 
ataria Oysters are with us all sum- 
mer, and New Orleans is the ac- 
knowledged commercial center ' of 
the oyster trade on the Gulf Coast. 

New Orleans opened the eyes of 
the United States to the possibili- 
ties of the oyster in every variety 
and form of cooking. Her chefs 
evolved the most dainty and pala- 
table ways ot preparing them, and 
while raw oysters remained practi- 
cally an unknown quantity in aris- 
tocratic centers in other States of 
the Union, the Creoles, quick to dis- 
cover and. apply, placed the raw 
oyster on their table as one of the 
greatest delicacies that could be of- 
fered the most fastidious appetite. 
In the following recipes are given 
the most delightful manner of serv- 
ing 



OYSTERS. 

Huitres a, la Creole. 

The Picayune has already given, 
in the chapter devoted to soups, tlie 
several ways that the Creoles have 
of preparing oysters in this style. 
(See Oyster Soups.) In a general 
treatment of oysters, it presents, 
first, that famous but exceptionally 
palatable manner in which oysters 
can be eaten at all hours, day or 
night, without overloading the stom- 
ach or causing the least symptom ol 
indigestion, viz: 

Raw Oysters on Halt Shell. 

Huitres en Coquilles. 

6 Oj-sters to Each Plate. Cracked Ice. 

Maunsell White or Black Pepper, Cayenne 

and Vinegar. 

Lemon, Sliced or Cut in Quarters. 

Allow six oysters to each person 
where the bivalve is used to begin 
the dinner or breakfast. Have the 
oysters opened in their shell and 
remove onerhalf of the shell. Drain 
the water from the oyster shell, 
without disturbing the oyster, and 
place in plates, with cracked ice, 
sprinkled over with a, quarter ot a 
sliced lemon in the center of the 
plate. Serve with black pepper and 
Cayenne, if desired, or the famous 
Maunsell White, sold in all New 
Orleans oyster saloons. A half cup 
is given as "lagniappe" by the deal- 
ers to their customers. 

A more attractive way of serving 
raw oysters is to remove them from 
the shell and place in the delicate 
oyster plates used by the old Creoles 
garnished with sliced lemon between 
the little bed that holds each oys- 
ter, and placing the Maunsell White 
or pepper and Cayenne in the little 
cell in the center of the dish. 

Again, where these delicate plates 
are not in family use, place the oys- 
ters in the usual dinner plate in a 
bed of finely chopped ice, allowing 
a half dozen oysters for each per- 
son. Cut lemon in quarters and hand 
around with black pepper, salt and 
pepper vinegar. 

' Dainty rolls of fresh butter and 
oyster crackers are served with raw 
oysters. 

A daily sight in our New Orleans 
streets is to see the negro servants 
going at lunch or supper time to the 
nearest oyster saloon with a great 
salver for oysters on half-shell. They 
return with the dainty bivalves 
ranged closely in their open shells 
on the salver, and with a small 
glass ■ of Maunsell "White, and a 
plate of "hard-tack" (oyster breajDi 
or crackers. 

Worcestershire Sauce is often used 
instead of the Maunsell White by 
those who do not like the taste" of 



55 



pepper. But the piquant Maunsell 
White is essentially Creole, origi- 
nated in New Orleans, and gives the 
oyster a toothsome touch that must 
be tasted in order to he appreci- 
ated. 

Oysters Served In a Block of Ice. 

Hultres sur la Glace. 
6 Oysters to Each Person. A Square Block 
of Ice. 

Black Pepper and Cayenne. 
Sprigs of Parsley and Radishes to Garnish. 

Lemon Cut in Quarters. 

This is one of the pr"ettiest ways 
of serving oysters at a dinner or 
luncheon, as well as one of the most 
r^cherchfe. Have your dealer send 
a square block of Ice of the size 
desired and make a hollow in the 
center of the block by placing a 
flat-iron on the top, scooping out 
■with the iron the shape desired. 
Then place a folded napkin on a 
platter and stand the block of ice 
upon it. Pepper the oysters nicely 
with Cayenne and black pepper, and 
place in the ice. Then take sprigs 
of parsley and decorate the platter, 
placing between decorated radishes, 
and alternate slices of lemon, and 
serve the oysters with lemon cut in 
quarters. The effect of this decora- 
tion is very charming. Smilax may 
be substituted for the parsley or 
mixed with it. The cavity should 
be square and deep, leaving walls 
of ice about two inches in thickness. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Huitres sur le Gril. 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. Salt and 
Cayenne to Taste. 
Melted Butter and Chopped Parsley. 
Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley to Gar- 
nish. 

Allow six or eight oysters for each 
person. The oysters must be large 
• and fat, else they will shrivel to 
nothing in cooking. Drain the oys- 
ters through a colander, lay them on 
a dish and. wipe- with a ■ dry, clean 
towel. Melt butter and dip in the 
oysters, seasoned well with salt and 
Cayenne on both sides. Have ready 
the gridiron ( use ajways the double 
wire broiler) and test , the .heat by 
dropping a littl-e wa,ter on it. If 
the water hisses, the broiler is quite" 
ready. Place the broiler in a warm 
place — just over the oyen will do. 
Butter and place the oysters on it: 
Return to moderate coals. As soon 
as the oysters are browned on one 
side, turn on the other and brown. 
Have ready a heated dish and serve 
the oysters, pouring over melted but- 
ter and chopped parsley (chopped 
very fine). Garnish with sprigs oE 
parsley and sliced lemon and serve 
immediately. 



Broiled Oysters on Tonst. 

Huitres sur Canapes. 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. Salt and 

Pepper to Taste. 

6 or 8 Pieces of Buttered Toast or Milk Toast. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Broil the oysters according to the 
recipe given above. Have ready a 
heated dish; sprinkle the oysters 
with salt and pepper and pour over 
melted butter. Serve on small 
pieces of buttered toast, or milk 
toast. Sprinkle with flnely-chopped 
parsley. 

Broiled Oysters With Sauce 
Kspaoguole. 

Huitres GrillSes a la Sauce Espa- 

gnole. 
I Pint of Oyster Liquor to Every 2 Dozen 

Oysters. 
1 Tablespoontul of Butter. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

of Sifted Flour. . 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. Chopped Parsley.' 
6 or 8 Squares of Buttered Toast. 

Drain the oysters and allow about 
one pint of the oyster liquor to every 
two dozen oysters. Have ready a 
■porcelain-lined saucepan and put the 
liquor on to boil. As the scum rises 
skim it carefully. Put one table- 
spoonful of butter into a frying pan, 
and when it begins to heat, add 
gradually two tablespoonfuls of 
sifted flour. Mix well and brown. 
Pour over this the oyster liquor and 
stir constantly till It begins to boil, 
seasoning with salt and pepper (Ca- 
yenne) and parsley chopped very 
flne. Stand the sauce in a vessel in 
hot water (bain-marie) until wanted, 
and proceed to broil the oysters in 
the same manner as in the recipe 
first given. Place squares of but- 
tered toast in a dish, lay the oys- 
ters on top, pour over the sauce, and 
serve immediately. 

Oysters en Brochettcs. 

Huitres en Brochettes. 

3 Dozen Large, Fat Oysters. Thin Slits o( 

Bacon. 

A Tablespoontul of Butter. 

1 Tablespoontul of Minced Parsley. 

Sliced Lemon and Oli-ves to Garnishi - ■ 

Have ready a 'furnace with red'^ 
hot coals; take fine sliced breakfas.f 
bacon and cut into thin slits about 
the size of tlie oyster. Drain three 
dozen large, fat oysters; take a long 
skewer, of silver or metal that is 
not dangerous, and string it first 
with a slit of bacon and then, afl 
oyster, alternating this until It" "13 
filled, the extreme ends, terminating 
with the bacon. Then hold the oys- 
ters over the clear fire and broil un- 
til the edges begin to ruffle, "when 
they are done. In the meantime pre- 
pare some drawn butter by placing 



56 



about a tablespoonful in a cup before 
the fire to melt; place the oysters in 
a hot dish, alternating with slices 
of bacon, sprinkle with pepper and 
salt, and pour over the drawn but- 
ter mixed with abo\it one tablespoon- 
ful of parsley, chopped fine; garnish 
with slices of lemons and whole 
olives, and serve. The oysters and 
bacon may be served on the skewers, 
if they are not charred or blackened; 
but the other is the far daintier 
method. 

Oysters Broiled in Shells. 

Huitres en Coquilles sur le Grll. 

3 Dozen Fine, Fat Oysters. 

1 Tablespoonful of Finely. Chopped Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. Sprigs of Thyme. 

1 Sprig of Sweet Basil. 2 Shallots. 
1 Tablespoonful of 'Butter. Grated Bread 

Crumbs. 
Asparagus Tips and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

• Dozen Well Washed Oyster Shells. 
Take tijree dozen fine oysters; 
blanch in their own water and drain. 
Chop a tablespoonful of fine pars- 
ley, bay leaf and thyme, using a 
sprig each of the latter and a sprig 
of sweet basil. Cut up two nice shal- 
lots very fine and add. Place a 
tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan; add a little oyster Juice sautS, 
or shake the oysters without making 
a bouillon. When two minutes 
have passed, take oft the stove, place 
the oysters in the well washed shells, 
sprinkle over a little bread crumbs, 
and put on top of each a pinch of 
butter. Have ready the gridiron or 
broiler very hot; place the shells be- 
tween the double broiler, set over 
the fire to broil for about four or 
five minutes, and serve with delicate 
garnishes of asparagus tips and 
- sliced lemon. 

Oysters and Bacon. 

Huitres BardSes. 
3 Dozen Oysters. Thin Slices of Breakfast 
Bacon. 
Minced Parsley. Sauce Flquante. 

Wrap each oyster in a very thin 
slice of breakfast bacon. Lay on a 
broiler over a baking pan in a hot 
oven. Tlemove when the bacon is 
brown. Each must be fastened with 
a wooden toothpick. Serve with 
minced parsley and pepper sauce, or 
Sauc^ Piquante. (See recipe.) 

Fried Oysters. 

Huitres Frites. 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Finely Grated Bread Crumbs. Parsley to 

Garnish. 

Boiling Lard. 

Drain the oysters, allowing aljout 

six or eight to each person to be 

served. Salt and pepper and then roll 

oysters in bread crumbs, grated very 



fine. Drop in the frying pan of boil- 
ing lard, having sufficient lard to al- 
low the oysters to swim in the 
grease. Remove when a golden 
brown and place on brown paper and 
drain. Serve on a platter garnished 
with parsley or on a bed of fried 
parsley. (See recipe for Fried Pars- 
ley.) 

Fried Oysters fl la Creole, 

Huitres Frites a, la Creole. 

, 6 or 8 Oysters to Each- Person. 
1 Egg. 1 Glass of Milk. 
Va Teaspoonful of Salt. % Teaspoonful ol 

Black Pepper. 
Grated Cracker or Bread Crumbs. Butter Oil. 
Parsley. 
Sliced Lemon and Pickle to Garnish. 
Select the firmest and largest oys- 
ters, allowing six or eight to each 
person. Drain in a colander and 
dry with a soft linen towel. Beat 
an egg thoroughly and mix with a 
glass of milk and a half teaspoonful 
of salt and pepper. Mash bread 
crumbs or crackers in another dish. 
Dip the oysters one by one in the 
milk and roll gently in the bread 
crumbs, patting softly with the 
hands, and drop into a deep frying 
pan with sufficient lard or butter 
oil for the oyster to swim in it. In 
from three to five minutes the oys- 
ters will be done. The time given 
will allow them to fry to a nice 
golden brown, and it will not be 
necessary to turn them if the oil in 
the pan is deep enough. Take them 
out with a skimmer, being careful 
not to break, and drain on a piece 
of soft brown paper. Serve on a 
bed of fried parsley, with garnishes 
of sliced lemon and pickle. Bread 
crumbs are far preferable to crack- 
ers. Butter is often used in frying 
oysters, but the butter oil is found 
by experience to be better than either 
lard or butter. Some also use corn- 
meal instead of the bread crumbs, 
but there is no comparison as to 
results. 

SteTved Oysters. 

Huitres en Fricassfee. 

4 Dozen Large Oysters. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Tablespoonful 
of Sutter. 
1 Pint of Oyster Liquor. 
1 Pint of Rich Cream or Milk. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Take about four dozen large oys- 
ters, drain in a colander. Mix one 
tablespoonful of flour and one of 
butter together. Put one pint of 
oyster liquor on the fire and add the 
flour and butter blended. Have 
ready in another saucepan a pint of 
rich, hot cream. After five min- 
utes, add this to the oyster liquor, 
stirring constantly to prevent burn- 
ing. Salt and pepper to taste. I^t 



57 



it boil up once and then add the oys- 
ters. After three minutes serve. 
This is a very delicate dish. 
Oyster Sautees. 

Huitres SautSes. 

6 or S Oysters to Each Person. 

3 Slices o( Pat Bacon. 

1 TaWespoonful of Flour. Salt and Pepper 

to Taste. 

6 or 8 Squares of Buttered Toast. 

Olives. Pickles and Sliced Lemon to Garnisli. 

Drain the oysters well and dry 

with a clean towel. Sprinkle them 

with pepper and salt, and roll in a 

little flour. Place the bacon, cut 

into thin slices, in a frying pan, and 

let all the fat fry out. Remove the 

bacon .from the pan and place in the 

oysters, covering the bottom. As 

they turn a golden brown on one 

side, turn over on the other. Serve 

on squares of buttered toast, with 

garnishes of olives, pickles and 

sliced lemon. 

Coddled Oysters. 

HuStres Rotie sur Canapfis. 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. 
6 Slices of Bread. 
1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. % Tea- 
spoonful of Salt. 
% Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. A Dash of 
Cayenne. 
2 Sprigs of ' Parsley Chopped Very Fine. 
1 Bay Leaf Minced Fine. 
3 Cloves. 1 ■ Blade of Mace. 1 Pint of Oys- 
ter Liquor. 

Toast five or six slices of bread to 
a nice brown and butter them on 
both sides. Drain the liquor from 
the oysters and put it in a saucepan. 
When hot, add a large lump of but- 
ter. Have ready a baking dish and 
place the toast within; lay the oys- 
ters on the toast, having seasoned 
well with salt, Cayenne pepper, 
chopped parsley, bay leaf, mace and 
cloves. Put the liquor of the oys- 
ters over the toast until it is well 
absorbed. Set in an oven and bake 
for five or six minutes with a quick 
fire. 

Deviled Oysters. 

Huitres a. la Diable. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

y. Pint of Cream. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 1 Bay 

Leaf. 1 Blade of Mace. 
3 Sprigs of Parsley. Salt and Cayenne to 
Taste. 

Sprigs of Parsley or Asparagus Tips, and 
Sliced Lemon and Olives to Garnish. 
Take three dozen fine, large oys- 
ters, drain and chop them into mid- 
dling fine pieces. Rub together one 
tablespoonful of butter and two ta- 
blespoonfuls of flour, very smoothly. 
Place in a saucepan one-half pint 
of cream, and, when it is coming to 
a boil, .stir in the flour and butter. 



Have ready the yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, and, as soon as the milk 
boils, take from the fire and add the 
eggs, one tablespoonful of parsley 
chopped fine, one bay leaf chopped 
fine, mace, and a sprig of finely- 
chopped thyme. Add salt and Ca- 
yenne to taste, and add, the oysters. 
Take the deep shells of the oysters, 
which have been washed perfectly 
clean, and fill with this mixture; 
sprinkle lightly with bread crumbs; 
put a pinch of butter on top, and set 
in the baking pan and brown. The 
oven should be very quick, and only 
five minutes are needed for the 
browning. Serve the oysters thus 
baked in their shells, and garnish 
the dish with sprigs of parsley or 
asparagus tips, olives and sliced 
lemon. 

Currted Oysters. 

Huitres au Kari. 
4 Dozen Oystei-s. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Tablespoonfuls 
Flour. 

1 'Gill of Rich Cream or 2 Gills of Good Milk. 

% Teaspoonful of Gurry Powder. 
■ A Pinch of Corn Starch. 

2 Sprigs ' of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs 

of Parsley. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. The Oyster Water. 
l^Cup of Louisiana Rice Boiled a la 
Creole, for Border. 

Take four dozen fine, large oys- 
ters and drain the oyster liquor into 
a saucepan, being careful to extract 
all pieces of shell, and set it to 
boil. Wipe the oysters dry with a 
clean towel. Put in another sauce- 
pan one tablespoonful of butter and 
let it melt; then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of fiour, stirring constantly and 
rubbing smoothly; do not let it 
brown. Add about one gill of rich 
cream, or two gills of good milk, to 
the boiling oyster juice, and stir all 
this into, the fiour slowly, avoiding 
the formation of any lumps, and 
stirring constantly. Let this boil 
about two minutes. Take one-half 
teaspoonful of curry powder and a 
t)inch of cornstarch or fiour and rub 
smoothly with a few drops of cold 
milk. Stir this into the oyster juice; 
season a la Cr6ole with Cayenne, salt, 
chopped thyme, etc., and, as it boils 
up, drop in the oysters; let them 
cook about three minutes and serve 
on a dish with a border of Louisiana 
Rice, boiled so as to appear l.ke 
snowflakes, the grains standing 
apart. Sprinkle chopped parsley 
over the oysters to form a garnish. 
Oysters Jl la Poulette. 
Huitres a, la Poulette. 
4 Dozen Oysters. 1 Gill of Sherry. 
The i'olks of 2 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 
Rich Cream. 
Toasted and Buttered Croutons. 
Sliced Lemon and Parsley Sprigs to Garnish. 

Prepare as in the above recipe for 



58 



Curried Oysters, using a gill o£ slier- 
ry instead of the milk and cream, ani 
omitting tlie curry powder. Having 
dropped the oysters into the boiling 
oyster juice, remove from the fire 
after cooking three minutes. Beat 
well the yolks of two eggs with two 
tablespoonfuls of rich cream, add to 
the oysters, and serve with toasted 
and buttered Crodtons, a garnish 
of sliced lemons and parsley sprigs. 

niiucetl Oysters, 

Hultres en Haohis. 

4 Dozen Oysters. 1 Gill of Oyster Juice. 

A. Half Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Gill of White Wiue. 3 Yolks of Eggs. 

1 Tuhlespoouful of Butter. 

1 Gill of Ulch Cream. 1 Tahlespoouful of 

Flour. 

Parsley and Chives aud Thyme, cboppetl fine. 
Scald the oysters in their ov^rn wa- 
ter. Drain and mince, but not too 
fine. Put into the saucepan a table- 
spoonful of butter, and, when melted, 
add the parsley (chopped fine), the 
herbs and the mushrooms. Then 
add the flour, which has been rubbed 
smoothly In a gill of oyster juice, 
and, after it stews about five min- 
utes, add the white wine; if this is 
not obtainable, add another gill of 
oyster juice. Mix thoroughly, and 
then add the minced oysters, and 
stew gently until the sauce is ab- 
sorbed and the mince forms a thick 
batter. Be very careful not to 
scorch. Remove from the Are and 
add in the yolks of the eggs, which 
have been beaten smoothly, in the 
cream. Set it bade on the fire and 
let it remain about one minute, and 
serve on large toasted and buttered 
Crofltons, witli garnish of lemon and 
parsley and olives. 

Baked Oysters, 

Huitres au G.'atin. 

S Dozen Fine, Large Oysters. 

1 TabIei^poonful of Butter. 

Sauce Piiiuante. 3 Shallots. 

1^ Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Tahlespoouful of Flour. 1 Gill White Wine. 

Parsley, Tliyme and Bay Lear, 

chopped fiue. 

Boil the oysters about two min- 
utes in their own liquor, dropping 
them in the liquor as it comes to 
the boiling point. Pass them through 
a "Sauce Piquante," rolling nicely. 
Mix the melted butter and the 
chopped parsley, thyme, etc., the 
shallots chopped very fine, and 
moisten well with a little oyster 
juice; chop the mushrooms fine and 
add, pouring In the gill of wine. Af- 
ter it is reduced, being careful to 
Btlr constantly, select the finest and 
largest shells of the oysters, which 
have be^ cleaned well, and place 
In each four or six oysters; pour 



over each shell the sauce, filling nice, 
ly, in pyramidal shape; place on 
each a bit of butter, and set In tho 
stove for about five minutes, or over 
a gridiron on a slow fire for about 
ten minutes. Serve in the shells, 
with garnish of parsley and le.nons, 
sliced. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Coquilles d'Huitres. 

4 Dozen Fine Oysters. 3 Tablespoonfuls o( 

Butter.' 

1 Blade of Mace. 4 Cloyes. 1 Sprig of Tliyuic 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

% Cup of Rich Milic or Cream. 

Va Cup of Oyster Liquor. Grated Bread 

Crumbs. 

Select about four dozen fine oys- 
ters. Have ready a porcelain-li.ied 
baking dish, or any good dish that 
will not darken the oysters. Drain 
the oysters in a colander, strain the 
liquor to remove all pieces of sheil 
and save it. Butter the baking dish 
and place in a layer of oysters, 
well seasoned, a la Crfiole, with Ca- 
yenne, salt, chopped mace, cloves, 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf, chopped 
very fine. Place over a layer of 
bread crumbs, about a half-ineh in 
thickness. Place here and there lit- 
tle dots of butter and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Add another layer 
of seasoned oysters, and then anoth- 
er layer of bread crumbs, until the 
dish is full. Then mix a half cup 
of rich cream and milk and a half cup 
of the oyster liquor, and pour over 
the dish. Sprinkle the last layer 
wlth bread crumbs and dot gently 
with bits of butter. Place in a 
quick oven and bake about fifteen 
or twenty minutes, or until a nice 
brown. 

The above is a splendid receipt for 
family use. Where it is desired to 
be more fastidious and scalloped oys- 
ters are served for luncheon, or when 
guests are expected, follow the above 
directions for seasoning and prepar- 
ing the oysters. Have ready about 
one dozen of the deep shells which 
have been thoroughly washed and 
scalloped nicely, taking off the rougli 
edges and every grain of dust or 
dirt by scraping well. Have ready 
a large baking pan., Place the oys- 
ter shells within and fill the shells 
with alternate layers of oysters and 
crumbs, allowing three or six clys- 
ters to each shell; sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, moisten a little with 
cream and oyster juice, and bake and 
serve in their own shells. The flav- 
or of the oyster is highly Improved 
by baking in Its own shell, care be- 
ing taken always not to scrape the 
inside or blanch with hot water. 



59 



Oysters nu Paruiesriu. 

Huitres au Parmesan. 

8 Dozen Oysters. , 

Grated Piiniiesau Clioesc. 

1 Cup ot Griited Brend Crumbs. 

1 Gill o£ White Wiue. 

1 Tublespoouful ot Cliiipped Parsley. 

1 Tublespoontul of Butter. 

Salt, Cayeuue. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

Brown the bread crumbs in a littl3 

butter, and butter a shallow disli 

and stew with bread crumbs. Drain 

the oysters and dry with a clean 

towel; season highly &, la Crfiole; 

place them, one by one, on the bread 

crumbs; strew chopped parsley over 

them, and the grated cheese, using 

good judgment as to quantitj'. 

Sprinkle lightly with bread crun:bs 

again, and pour over all a gill of 

white wine. Place in the oven, 

whicli should be very quick; let then 

remain about fifteen minutes, till 

quite brown. Take out and pour 

over a little drawn butter, and serve 

with lemon garnish. 

Roasted Oysters. 

Huitres Rotis. 

3 Dozen Fine, Large, Fiit Oysters. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Buttered Toast. 

Clean the oyster shells thoroughly, 
set them on the top of the stove or 
place in a baking pan until the shell 
is easily removed. Remove the flat 
outer shell. Butter the oyster in the 
deep ■ shell and serve very hot with 
salt and pepper. In old Creole fam- 
ilies roasting parties were often giv- 
en and there was always a frolic 
in the kitchen, the belles and beaux 
vying with one another iii roasting 
the delicious bivalve. As the shells 
open put in a little butter. The oys- 
ters were sent to the' table in their 
shells; by a quick movement the 
outer shell was removed, and they 
were eaten with pepper sauce or 
pepper, salt and vinegar. The.re 
were great frolics in the kitchens 
In those days roasting oysters as 
at the famous "Crepe" or doughnut 
parties. 

The good wife who wishes to de- 
light her husband when he comes 
home tired of an evening cannot 
better win her way to his heart than 
by serving him witli roasted or 
steamed oysters. 

Oyster Pan Roast, 

Huitres a. la PoSle. 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Sliced Lemon and Parsley to Garnish. 

The largest and finest oysters are 

used for this purpose. Drain the 



oysters, heat a deep frying pan, 
drop in a generous lump of butter. 
When it melts, add the oysters, cov- 
ering and shaking the pan constant- 
ly over a hot flre. Have ready a 
dish well buttered and nicely gar- 
nished with parsley and lemon slices. 
When the oysters are brown, turn 
quickly into the dish and add suit 
and pepper and melted butter, into 
which you have dropped finely 
chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Steamed Oysters. 

Huitres a la Vapeur. 

4 Dozen Oysters. 
A Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 
This is a -favorite way of eating 
oysters in New Orleans. Have rea-dy 
a pot of boiling water. Drain the 
oysters in their shells and put the.n 
in a shallow tin pan, the bottom be- 
ing perforated. Cover and put tliom 
over the steamer. Let them stand 
about ten minutes, put into a hot 
dish, season with pepper and Ca- 
yenne, and serve with drawn butter 
sauce. If one has not the perfora- 
ted tin, steam the oysters in their 
shells. Wash the shells thoroughly 
on the outside, place the oysters in 
the steamer and cover, letting them 
remain about fifteen minutes over the 
boiling water, or until the shells 
open easily, and serve. A steamer 
may be improvised by using a col- 
ander and a closely fitting pot lid. 
The steamed oyster must be eaten 
when very hot to be appreciated in 
all its flavor. 

Oyster Frtt-ters. 

Beignets d'Huitres. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

2 Eggs. 1 Cup ot Milk. 

2 Cups of Flour. 1 Teaspoontul ot Salt, 
yj Teaspoontul of Good Baking I'oniler. 

Parsley or Asparagus Tips to Garnish. 

Take two dozen large oysters, 
drain in a colander and remove any 
pieces of shell or grit that may ad- 
here. Chop the oysters fine. Take 
two eggs- and beat until very light. 
Then add a cup of milk and rub in 
smoothly two cupfuls of flour and 
one teaspoontul of salt. Beat until 
perfectly smooth. Add one-half tea- 
spoonful of good baking powder. 
Mix well and then drop in the 
oysters which must be dry. 
Then drop into boiling lard or oil. 
When browned on one side, turn on 
the other, being careful not to use 
a fork or to pierce them, as that 
would render the oysters and frit- 
ters heavy. Use a skimmer in re- 
moving from the pot, and drain on 
brown paper. Serve on a dish In 
which you have placed a folded nap- 
kin and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley or asparagus tips. 



60 



Oyster Croquettes. 

Crotiuettes d'HuItres. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 3 Gill of RIcb Cream. 
1 Gill of Oyster Liquor. 
2 Tablespoontula of Flour, 
i Tablespoonful of Butter. 
The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 
3 Sprigs of Parsley. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Dash of Cayenne. A Well Beaten Egg. 
Grated Bread Crumbs. Boiling Lard. 

Take two dozen oysters and boil 
them in their own liquor. Stir con- 
stantly and boil for about five min- 
utes. Remove from the fire. Take 
out the oysters and chop very fine. 
Put them into a saucepan with about 
one gill each of rich cream and oys- 
ter liquor. Rub together two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one of but- 
ter. Add this and the oysters to tin 
boiling' milk and cream. Stir until 
it thickens and boils. Then add the 
yolk of two eggs. Stir this over the 
fire for about one minute, and then 
take oft and add parsley, chopped 
fine, salt and Cayenne. Mix well 
and place In a dish to cool. Then 
roll in a beaten egg to bind and 
form into cylinders of about a fing- 
er in length. Roll in bread crumbs 
mashed fine, and fry In boiling lard 
or oil. 

Oyster Croquettes fl la Crfiole, 

Croquettes d'Huitres k la Creole. 

3 Dozen Fine Oysters. 

1 Cup of the White Meat of a Chicken Minced. 

6 Finely ^Chopped Mushrooms. 

1 Teaspoonful of Onion Juice. 

% Cup of Cream. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

2 Tahlespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

Salt and Cayenne Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the oysters about three min- 
utes in their own liquor. Drain and 
chop the oysters fine. Take a half 
cup of the liquor in which the oys- 
ters have been broiled, set it on the 
fire and add the chopped oysters. 
Then add the half cup of cream, the 
chopped mushrooms and tl>e minced 
chicken. Stir thoroughly into this 
boiling mixture the butter and flour 
which have been rubbed smoothly. 
Add the chopped parsley, onion 
Juice, salt and Cayenne, and mix 
well. Then add the yolks of the 
eggs, well beaten. Let it cook about 
two minutes and turn it out into a 
dish to cool. When cold, roll Into 
cylinders about two inches in length 
and one inch In diameter. Pass 
through bread crumbs and fry in 
boiling lard. Serve immediately on 
a bed of fried parsley. 



Oyster Balls. 

Boulettes d'Huitres. 
2 Pints of Chopped Oysters. 
2 Pints of Chopped Sausage Meat. 
1 Egg. Grated Bread Crumbs. 
To every pint of chopped oystera 
add one pint of chopped sausage 
meat. Roll in bread crumbs; sea- 
son highly. Add one egg and roll 
in bread crumbs. Make into small 
cakes and fry In boiling lard. Serve 
hot. 

Oyster Fatties, 

Petites BouchSes d'Huitres. 

4 Dozen Oysters. % Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Tahlespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Small Onion, Grated. 

Pepper, Salt, Chopped Parsley and 

Lemon Juice. 

Prepare a puff paste (see recipe) 
and lay on the ice to cool. Boil the 
oysters in their own liquor. Drain, 
put the butter in the saucepan, and 
when it is heated, add the grated 
onion and rub in the flour until 
smooth. Add a gill of mushroom 
Juice and pepper, salt and Cayenne 
to taste, and the mushrooms chopped 
in quarters. Then add the oysters 
and let all stew about five minutes, 
adding the lemon Juice. A table- 
spoonful of cream will improve the 
oysters. If this is used, omit the 
lemon Juice. Line the small tins with 
the puff paste and put In each three 
or four oysters according to the size 
of the pate. Cover with the pas-te 
and bake in a quick oven about fif- 
teen minutes. 

To make the open p9,t6s so much 
used at luncheon and entertainments 
in New Orleans, cut the puff paste 
into round cakes. Those intended 
for the bottom crust should be about 
a little less than an elgth of an 
inch thick. Those intended for the 
upper layers should be a little thick- 
er. Take a small biscuit cutter and 
remove a round paste from the cen- 
ter of these latter. This will leave 
a nice ring. Carefully place this 
upon the bottom crust, and then a 
second ring, until the cavity is deep 
enough to hold several oysters. Lay 
the pieces that have been extracted 
Into a pan with these and bake to a 
fine brown in a quick oven. Then 
take out and fill the cavities with 
the oysters prepared as above, fit 
on the top very lightly, and set In 
the oven a second or two and serve. 

Oyster Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent d'Huitres. 

8 Dozen Large, Fine Oysters. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

6 Yolks of Eggs. 

Spices, Thyme, Bay Leaf, Parsley* 

1 Slice of Grated . Bread, 

Take an earthen dish which will 



61 



hold about three and a halt pints 
and line the sides with ricli pld 
crust. (See recipe for Pie Crust.) 
Set in the stove and let it bake a 
few minutes. In the meantime, take 
about one pint and a half of the oys- 
ter liquor and put on the fire, after 
having drained well. Add the sea- 
sonings of chopped herbs and Ca- 
yenne. Rub a tablespoonful of flour 
into the butter and add to the liquor, 
stirring constantly. Mash the 

grated crumbs; add to this, and mix 
well. Chop the hard-boiled eggs 
fine. Then pour the oysters into tha 
pan of pie crust, sprinkle some of 
the chopped eggs and grated bread 
crumbs over, and put a teaspoonful 
of butter in small bits here and 
there over this. Then roll out very 
fine and thin a layer of the pie crust. 
Place this over the preparation and 
ornament here and there, all around, 
with neat notches or designs, which 
can be easily formed with the end 
of a spoon or the prongs of a fork. 
Cut a hole in the center in the shape 
of the letter X. Set in a moderately 
quick oven and bake till brown. In 
the meantime, melt one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, add the remaining oys- 
ter liquor and season with pepper and 
salt. When it is about to come to a 
boil, add one-half cup of rich, hot 
cream or boiled milk, and when the 
pie is nearly brown, put a funnel 
into the opening in the center and 
pour in as much of the liquor as 
the pie will hold. Place a delicate 
garnish of pastry leaves over the 
whole and bake a minute or so long- 
er. -If there is any sauce left over, 
serve it with the pie. 

Great care must be taken not to 
have the oysters over done. For this 
reason the upper crust is often baked 
separately, as the bottom of the pie 
is filled with the ingredients and the 
upper crust placed on and served. 
Else the oysters are laid in layers 
while raw into the crust. But they 
are liable to become too dry when 
used in this way. 

Oyster Salad. 

Huitres en Salade. 

4 Dozen Large Oysters. 2 Cilsp 

Heads of Lettuce. 

The Tolks of Ibree Eggs. Va Teaspoonful of 

Mustard. 

14 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

2 Tablespooufuls of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Oyster Salad is a favorite lunch 
dish. Boil about four dozen large 
oysters in their own liquor, season 
with salt and pepper. Drain and 
set aside to cool. Take two crisp 
heads of lettuce leaves and arrange 



nicely in the salad bowl. Turn the 
oysters into the center of the leaves 
and pour over them the following 
dressing: Take the yolks of three 
■"aw eggs, half a teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, and a little salt; beat these to- 
gether until they begin to thicken, 
and add gradually olive oil, as in 
making Mayonnaise, until it begins 
to thicken. Add a little vinegar to 
thin and serve with the oysters. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Huitres en Marinade. 

Huitres rn Marinade. 

50 or 100 Large, Fine Oysters. 

12 Blades of Mace. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Allspice. 

1 Level Tablespoonful of Cloves. 

1 Pepper. 2 Sliced Lemons. 

^ Pint of White Vinegar. 

Salt to Taste. 

Vi Dozen Pepper Corns. 

Boil the oysters in their own liq- 
uor until the edges begin to ruflle. 
Then take a half pint of white wine 
vinegar and a half pint of the oys- 
ter water and set to boil, adding the 
blades of mace, cloves, allspice, pep- 
per corns and a dash of Cayenne. 
Salt to taste. As soon as they come 
to a good boil, pour the oysters into 
the boiling liquor. Care must be 
taken to have the oysters very cold, 
as they will make the pickles slimy 
otherwise. After adding the oys- 
ters to the boiling liquid, set it 
aside to cool. Put in a very cool ice 
box and serve cold. This is a deli- 
cious Creole luncheon dish. 

Oyster Loal. 

La M4diatrice. 

Delicate French Loaves of Bread. 

2 Dozen Oysters to a Loaf. 
1 Tatilespoontul of Melted Butter. 

This is called the "famous peace- 
maker" in New Orleans. Every hus- 
band, who is detained down town, 
laughingly carries home an oyster 
loaf, or Mfidiatrice, to make "peace" 
with his anxiously waiting wife. 
Right justly is the Oyster Loaf 
called the "Peacemaker," for, well 
made, it is enough to bring the 
smiles to the face of the most dis- 
heartened wife. 

Take delicate French loaves of 
bread and cut off, lengthwise, the 
upper portion. Dig the crumbs out 
of the center of each piece, leaving 
the sides and bottom like a square 
box. Brush each corner of the box 
and the bottom with melted butter, 
and place in a quick oven ,to brown. 
Pill with broiled or creamed oys- 
ters. Cover with each other and 
serve. 



CHAPTER X. 
SHELL FISH — (ConHmiea.) 

Des CrustacSs 



This chapter embraces methods 
of cooking Shrimp, Crab, Crawflsli 
and Turtle, according to the m03t 
approved rules of the Creole Cuisine. 

SHHIMPS. 

Des Chevrettes. 

New Orleans is famous for the ex- 
o.uisite flavor of the River and Lake 
shrimps which abound in its mar- 
kets. The River shrimp is the more 
delicate of the two and is always eat- 
en broiled as a preliminary to dinner 
or breakfast or luncheon. The Lake 
shrimp oE larger size and firmer 
qualities is used for cooking pur- 
poses, and is served in various de- 
lightful ways, known only to our 
Creole cuisiniSres. From the Missis- 
sippi Sound and the New Orleans 
shore shrimp are sent deliciously 
canned to every part of the United 
States. In our markets they are 
sold fresh from the waters. 

Boiled Slirlmps. 

Chevrettes Bouillies. 

100 Fine River Shrimp. 

A Large Bnncli of Celery and Celery Tops. 

2 Dozen Allspice. 2 Blades of ^lacc. 

1 Duzen Cloves. 

4 Sprigs Bad) of Tliypoe, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf. 1 Ked I'epper Pod. 

Cayenne, Black Pepper, Salt. Parsley Sprigs 

to Garnisu. 

Select fine large River shrimp for 
this purpose. About 100 will ser\'e 
a family of eight. Into a pot of wi- 
ter put a great quantity of salt, al- 
most enough to make a brine. Pepper 
a great bunch of celery and celery 
tops, chopped fine; two dozen all- 
spice, two blades of mace, one dozen 
cloves, mashed fine; thym3, parsley, 
bay leaf, chopped fine; Cayenne and 
a red pepper pod. "When this ha.«; 
boiled so that all the flavor of the 
herbs have been thoroughly ex- 
tracted, throw in the shrimp. Let 
them boil ten minutes and then set 
the pot aside and let the shrimp 
cool in their own water. Serve in 
a platter on a bed of cracked ice, 
and garnish with parsley sprigs. 
This dish is alTvays served as a pre- 
liminary to a meal. A great deal of 
salt is required in boiling, as the 
shrimp absorb but little, and no af- 
ter addition can quite give them the 



same taste as when boiled in the 
briny water. 

Sle-pred SUrlinps. 

Chevrettes a, la Creole. 

100 Fine Lake Shrimp. 1 Large Onion. 
1 Tablespoouful of Butter. 1 Can of Toma- 
toes or 12 Fresh Ones. 
4 Celery Stalks, 1 Clove of Garlic, 1 Sprig 
of Tliyniu. 
2 Bay lyeaves. Salt and Pepper to Taate. 
A Dash of Cayeune. 

Get about 100 large Lake shrimp 
for this recipe. Boil the shrimp 
flrst according to the recipe given 
above, and then pick off the shells, 
leaving the shrimp whole. Place them 
in a dish. Chop fine one large on- 
ion and brown it with a ta- 
blespoonful of butter. Add a can 
of tomatoes or twelve large, ripe to- 
matoes, chopped fine, in their own 
liquor. Stir well and brown lightly. 
Then add three or four stalks of 
celery, a clove of garlic, a dash ol 
Cayenne, a sprig of thyme, two bay 
leaves, all chopped finely and sea- 
soned with salt to taste. After 
this has cooked ten minutes, add the 
shrimp. Let them cook ten minutes 
longer and serve. Never pour water 
into stewed shrimps, as the tomato 
juice makes gravy enough. 

Fried S3irlmp.«i. 

Chevrettes Frites. 

100 Fine Lake SInlmp. 

1 Cup of Milk. Grated Bread Cnimhs. 

Salt and Pepper to Tas1«. A Pasb of Cayenne. 

Fried Parsley and Parsley Tips and Olives 

to Garnish. 

I'^se Fine Lake shrimp for this re- 
cipe. Boil first according to the re- 
cipe given for Boiled Shrimps, Then 
take off the fire, pick off shells and 
season well. Take a pan of milk, 
seTson well with salt and pepper, 
After rolling the shrimp well in 
this, roll them in grated bread 
crumbs or yellow cornmeal (the lat- 
ter being preferable) and fry in 
boiling lard. The shrimp must swim 
in the lard. When they are a nice 
golden brown, skim out with a 
skimmer and drain on heated brown 
paper. Serve on a hot dish on a 
bed of fried parsley and garnish 
with parsley tips and olives. 



63 



Baked Shrlinps. 

Chevrettes au Gratin. 

100 Lake Shrimp. 1 Dozen Tomatoes. 

1 Tablespoontul of Butter. 1 Cup \t Grated 

Bread Crumbs or Crackers. 

Boil the shrimps according to re- 
cipe. Butter a deep dish well and 
place within a layer of grated bread 
crumbs or powdered crackers. Pick 
and clean the shrimp and season 
well. Stew about a dozen tomatoes 
in a little butter and season with 
pepper and salt. Place a layer ot 
the tomatoes in the dish and then a 
thin layer o( crackers or grated bread 
and over this a layer of shrimp. 
Continue till you have tour or five 
layers, the last being of the grated 
bread crumbs. Put little dots of 
butter here and there; place in the 
oven and bake till quite brown. 

Shrimp Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent de Chevrettes. 

ICO Lake Sbrimp. 

2 Slices of Stale Bread. 2 Glasses of Wbite 

Wine. 

1 Blade of Mace. 3 Sprigs ot Thyme. 

Vi of a Ground Nutmeg. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Tablespoontul of Butter. 

5 Tomatoes. % of a Celery Stalk. 

1 Bay Leaf. % Pint ot Oyster Liquor. 

Boil and pick about 100 shrimp. 
Take two largs siloes of stale breaii 
and break oft the crusts, grating this 
fine. Moisten the bread with two 
glasses of white wine, and season 
highly with salt, pepper, a dash of 
Cayenne, ground nutmeg, chopped 
mace, thyme and parsley. Mix the 
s.nrimp with the bread and bake in a 
dish. Sprinkle over the grated, 
crusts and dotting with butter. 
Serve this pie with a sauce of 
dressed shrimp. To make this, take 
a pint of shrimp, boiled and picked; 
put a tablespoonful of butter into a 
saucepan. Add the shrimp and four 
or five tomatoes, chopped fine; a 
little celery, thyme, one bay laaf, 
chopped fine; parsley (chopped) and 
mix thoroughly. Let it cook for 
about three or four minutes and adJ 
a half pint of oyster stock. This 
is delicious poured over the sliced 
pie. 

SItrlinpH in Tomato Cntsnp. 
Chevrettes 4 la Sauce Tomate. 

100 River Shrimp. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Tomato Catsup. 
3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. Salt, Pepper and Ca- 
yenne to Taste. 
Boil the shrimp and pick. Put 
them into a salad dish. Season well 
with black pepper and salt and a 
dash of Cayenne. Then add two ta- 
blespoonfuls of tomato catsup to 
every half pint of shrimps. Garnish 
with lettuce leaves and hard-boiled 
egg and serve. 



Shrimp Snlnd. 

Mayonnaise de Chevrettes, 

100 River or Lake. Shrimp. 

1 Small Oulon. 1 Bunch of Celery. 

3 Hard-Bolled Eggs. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Sliced Lemous, Beets and Celery Tips to 

'(jarulsh. 

Boil and pick the shrimp, accord- 
ing to the recipe given. If Lake 
slirimp are used, serve whole; if 
Elver shrimp, slice in two, as they 
will be more dainty, and season well 
with salt and pepper. Chop celery fine 
and add a little onion. Place the 
shrimp in the salad dish and pour 
over all fine Mayonnaise Sauce (sei^ 
recipe) and garnish with sliced 
hard-boiled e.sgs, sliced lemon, 
beets and celery tops, making a 
beautiful and welcome dish at any 
luncheon, tea or home affair. 

A Sllrlinp Biiali. 

Buisson de Chevrettes. 
lOO Lake Shrimp. 
Celery Tips. Asparagus Tips. 

A Shrimp Bush is a famous Creole 
hors .d'oeuvre, and forms a very 
handsome table decoration aUo. 
Boil the shrimp according to recipe. 
(See recipe Boiled Shrimps.) Take a 
glass fruit or cake stand, the fruit' 
stand with several tiers being th? 
prettier. As shrimp are s.-nall, they 
cannot be hung, gracefully around 
the stand as in a Crawfush Bus';i. 
(See r-ecipe.) They are, therefore, 
piled, first, into a small deep dish, 
and a close cover is put on to press 
them dbwn. They are then turned 
over and will be found clinging to- 
gether in one solid mass. If a cak-^ 
stand is used, set a glass bowl or 
goblet on it. Place the shrimp on 
top of this glass bowl or goblet; 
then take dainty bits of celery tips 
and asparagus tips, and heap around 
as for a border. Another row 
is formed a little lower, and 
again intermingled with aspara- 
gus tips and celery tops, between 
which the pink shrimp are grace- 
fully placed and glimmer. The ef- 
fect is very pretty. Tlie shrimp are 
served from the bush as an hors 
d'oeuvre. The effect of the pink 
against the green looks for all the 
world like a bush of green and red. 

CRABS. 

Des Crabes. 

New Orleans points with pride, 
and Justly, not only to the splendid 
supply ot crabs that are to be found 
at all seasons in her markets, but 
to the various delightful ways that 
the natives have of serving them. 
The following are re'ipes that have 
been handed down by the Creoles 
from generation to generation, and 
no modern innovations of cookery 



64 



have been able to improve upon 
them. 

Hard Shell Crabs. 

Crabes Durs. 
Many Northerners object to eating 
hard-shell crabs on account of the 
difficulty in picking them. Some 
Northern cooks have gone so far as 
to declare the hard-shell crab an 
unpalatable and indigestible article 
of food on account of its shell. This 
idea, of course, is very amusing. One 
Northern authority goes so far as 
to declare that the crab can never 
take the place of the aristocratic 
lobster, the latter being far more di- 
gestible. In reality there is no 
comparison in the delicacy of the 
meats of these fish, which are, in- 
deed, of the lobster variety, the 
hard-shell crab being the small- 
er, and by far the more deli- 
cate. And as for the soft shell 
crab, it is a born aristocrat and is 
acknowledged as such by the most 
fastidious epicureans. There is a 
science in eating the hard-shell 
crab cooked in its own shell. The 
Creoles have reduced this to a fine 
point, and a crab may be eaten 
without once using the fingers, if 
pne only follows the following sim- 
ple direction: 

How to Eat « Hard-Shell Crab 
Cooked in Its Shell. 

The shell and cla.ws should be 

cracked in the kitchen, very gently, 

before being brought to the table if 

the crabs are boiled and served 

whole. By a delicate manipulation 

of the knife and fork, remove the 

"apron" or "tablier," which is the 

small loose shell running to a point 

about the middle of the under shell. 

Then cut the crab claws off, still 

using the knife and fork; and finally 

cut the crab into parts, and these 

again in two. Proceed to extract 

the meat from each quarter with the 

fork and eat with salt and pepper. 

It is considered quite "comme il 

faut" to use the fingers, however, in 

holding the crabs, extracting the 

meat with the prongs of the fork. 

Boiled Crabs. 

Crabes Bouillis. 

1 Dozen Fine Crabs. 1 Bunch of Celery and 

Celery Tops. 

2 Dozen Allspice. 4 Sprigs of Thj-me. 

4 Sprigs of Sweet Basil. 

4 Sprigs of Sweet Marjoram. 3 Blades of Mace. 

3 Bay Leaves. 4 Sprigs of Chives. 

A Red Pepper Pod. A Dash of Cayenne. 

Black Pepper and Salt SufSclent to Make a 

Brine. 

Proceed in the same manner as for 

boiling shrimp. Buy fine, large 

crabs. The livelier they are the 

better. The crabs must be alive 

when put into the pot. Have ready 



a large pot of water. Throw In 
bunches of celery tops, stalks of eel. 
ery chopped fine, four or five large 
sprigs each of thyme, cliopped sweet 
basil, marjoram, chives, two dozen 
allspice, three blades of mace, three 
bay leaves,, chopped fine; a pod of 
red pepper, a dash of Cayenne, blacic 
pepper and salt enough to make the 
water briny. -When this has boiled 
long enough to have extracted all 
the flavor of the herbs, throw in the 
live crabs and let them boil rapidly 
for about ten minutes, or until the 
shells are a bright red, but do not 
let them boil one minute longer 
than this, as they will become wa- 
tery. Let them cool a little in their 
own water and then take out, strip 
off the "dead man's fingers," crack 
the claws, without breaking open, 
and pile high in a broad platter and 
serve with salt and pepper. 

Stewed Crabs. 

Crabes a, la Creole. 

1 Dozen Large Live Crabs. 
Tablespoonfnl of Butter or Lard. 
1 Stalk Chopped Celery. 
1 Dozen rresh Tomatoes or 1 Can. 
Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf, 1 Clove, Garlic, 
gait and Cayenne to Taste. 
Boil a dozen fine large crabs about 
five minutes in order to kill them. 
Take oft the fire and place in a dish. 
When sufficiently cooled, cut oft the 
claws and crack, separating the 
joints. Remove the "apron" or "tab- 
lier" of the crab and the "dead man's 
fingers," and take off the spongy sub. 
stance. These are the portions that 
are uneatable. Remove the shell, 
cut the body of the- crab into four 
parts, cutting down the center and 
across. Chop a large onion very fine 
and brown with butter or lard, using 
a tablespoonful of either. Add a 
dozen fine, large, fresh tomatoes, 
chopped fine, in their liquor, and 
brown nicely. Stir in chopped cel- 
ery^ thyme, parsley, one bay leaf, 
chopped fine; pepper and salt to 
taste, and a dash of Cayenne pepper. 
Add one clove of garlic, chopped fine. 
Taste and add more seasoning if 
necessary. Let the mixture cook 
ten minutes, then add the crabs and 
let them cook ten minutes longer. 
Never add water to this sauce, as 
the liquor of the tomatoes is suf- 
ficient and makes an excellent sauce. 
This is a fine fast-day dish. Serve- 
with boiled rice or potatoes boiled- 
whole. 

Pried Crabs. 

Crabes Frits. 

1 Dozen Fine Large Crabs. 

1 Pint of Milk. - 

6 Tablespoontuls of Butter or Lard. 

Stale Bread Crumbs, Grated. 
Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf, Onions. 
Boil the crabs according to re- 



65 



clpe. Cut off the claws and crack 
and cut the crabs into quarters as 
for stewing. Season well with pep- 
per and salt. Have ready a pint of 
milk. Mix pepper and salt in pro- 
protions of about two teaspoonfuls 
each. Have ready a pan of boiling 
lard and a plate of grated bread 
crumbs. Dip the crabs into the 
milk and then roll in the bread 
crumbs and drop into the boiling 
lard, frying about ten minutes or 
lentil a golden brown. Serve on a 
platter w^ith the claws piled in the 
center, the bodies of the crabs 
grouped nicely around, and garnish 
Tvith sprigs of parsley. This is a 
delicious way of serving Hard-Shell 
Crabs. 



Stuffed Crabs. 

Crabes Farcis. 

1 Dozen Large Fine Crabs. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

Hot Pepper. 1- Tablesponnful of Butter. 

Salt to Taste. 

1 Cup of Wet Bread. 

Boil the Crabs according to re- 
cipe. Take off the .Are and let them 
cool in their own water. When cdoI 
crack the claws and pick out all 
the meat. In like manner, after hav- 
ing removed the uneatable portions, 
pick out all the meat from the bod- 
ies. Season well with salt and black 
pepper. Chop the onions and herbs 
very fine. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter heaping over into the 
frying pan. As it melts, add 
the chopped onion, and when it 
begins to fry, add the crab 
meat, which has been thoroughly 
seasoned with the chopped thyme, 
bay leaf, parsley and a dash of Ca- 
yenne to taste. Let this fry and add 
a small clove of garlic, chopped very 
fine, and finally add the breid, which 
has been wet and thoroughly 
squeezed of all water. Mix this 
well with the ingredients in the fry- 
ing pan and let it fry about five min- 
utes longer. Then take oft the fire 
and let it get cool. Take a dozen of 
the finest and largest crab shells, or 
as many as this mixture will fill, and 
wash and stuff with the mixture, 
forming it into a rolling , lump. 
Sprinkle this with grated bread 
crumbs and put a dot of butter on 
top, or, better still, sprinkle with the 
melted butter; place in the oven and 
bake about five minutes, or until 
a nice brown. Place on a platter 
and garnish with sprigs of parsley 
or celery tops. This is an excellent 
method of preparing stuffed crabs for 
jfamily use. 



Stuffed Crabs — No. 

Crabes Farcis. 



2. 



2 Dozen large Flue Crabs. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

Thyme, Parsley and Onion. 

Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil the crabs according to recipe. 
Clean and cut and pick out all the 
meat. Chop an onion fine; chop the 
thyme, bay leaf, and parsley and 
hard-boiled eggs, and mix well with 
the crab , meat. Season highly witli 
hot pepper and salt to taste. Put 
one tablespoonful heaping over with 
butter into the frying pan. As it 
melts, add the onion and fry, being 
careful not to burn. Then add the 
crab meat, and, if desired, the very 
small clove of a garlic, chopped very 
fine. Let this fry about five min- 
utes, stirring constantly. Mix thor- 
oughly, fry three minutes longer, 
and then take off the stove. Stuff 
the crab shells, forming a rolling 
lump in the middle. Sprinkle light- 
ly with grated bread crumbs, a'nd 
put a dot of butter on top. Place 
in a quick oven and let them bake 
about live minutes, or until a nice 
brown. The same or even better re- 
sults are obtained by omitting the 
egg, many claiming that the deli- 
cate flavor of the crab meat is more 
daintily preserved without this ad- 
dition, This is a delightful way of 
serving crabs for luncheons, or 
where it is not necessary to make, 
as "the Creoles say, " a long family 
dish." 

Deviled Crabs. 

Crabes a, le Diable. ; 

1 Dozen Fine Large Crabs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Tablespoon of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Halt Pint of Cream. Va, Nutmeg Grated. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
The Yolks of 4 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 

Salt and Cayenne to Tjiste. 
Boil the crabs according to recipe. 
Take out and drain after they have 
cooled in their own water. Break 
off the claws, separate the shells, 
remove the spongy portions and the 
"dead man's fingers," and then pick 
out the meat. Put the cream on to 
boil, rub the flour and butter to- 
gether well and add to the boiling 
cream. Stir and cook for two min- 
utes. Take from the fire and add 
the crab meat, the yolks of the hard- 
boiled eggs, mashed very fine; the 
chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, 
salt and Cayenne. Clean the upper 
shells of the crabs, fill them with 
the mixture, brush over with a beat- 
en egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and put in a quick oven to brown; 



66 



or, better still, it you have a. frying 
basket, plunge the crabs into the 
boiling fat or lard until a nice 
brown. But many prefer them 
baked. 

Scallepped Crabs. 

Coquilles de Crabes. 

The Meat of 1 Dozen Picked Crabs. 
A Dash of Grated Nutmeg. 

Bread Crumbs. 1 Egg. 
Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Boil and pick the crabs according 
to recipe given above. Beat an ess 
thoroijghly and add to the meat 
which has been seasoned highly with 
Cayenne and salt to taste. Take one 
clove of garlic, chop fine and add, 
then sift into this mixture fine grated 
bread crumbs or cracker crumbs, 
and mix thoroughly. Beat an 

egg, roll the crabs into bou- 
lets or graceful meat balls, and then 
bind by rolling lightly in the egg. 
Roll in the bread crumbs, grated 
nicely, and then drop into boiling 
lard, and fry until a pale golden 
brown, which will generally require 
about three minutes. The secret is 
to have them cooked just enough, 
for, as a rule, they are generally 
overdone. Wash and clean the 
shells thoroughly; wipe dry, sst a 
boulet in the center of each and 
garnish prettily with sprigs of pars- 
ley and sliced lemon. This is a 
dainty , dish for breakfast or lun- 
cheon. They must be served very 
hot. 

Crab Croquettes. 

Crabes en Croquettes. 

1 Dozen Crabs. 

) Cup of Wet Bread. Squeezed Well. 

1 Onlnn. 1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay I^af. 

1 Sprig of Thj-me. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil the crabs clean and pick. 

Then season the meat well with 
salt and pepper. Chop the on- 
ion fine, also the herbs. Put a ta- 
blespoonful of butter in the frying 
pan, and as it melts, add the choppel 
onion. "When it begins to fry add 
the crab meat which has been mixed 
thoroughly with the chopped thyme, 
bay leaf, parsley and garlic. Add 
a dash of Cayenne and put in the 
frying pan with the onion. Add 
the bread which has been thoroughly 
squeezed, and mix all and fry about 
three minutes. Take off the fire 
and when cool form the mixture into 
cylmdrical shapes of about two or 
three mches in length and one in 
thickness. Hon in grated bread 
crumbs and fry in boiling lard 
berve hot on a dish nicely garnished 
with parsley and sliced lemon, 



Crab Salad. 

Crabes en Salade, 

2 Dozen Fine Large Crabs. 

12 Celery Stalks. 1 Dozen Olives. 

A Mayonnaise Sauce.' 

Boil the crabs according to recipe. 
Clean and pick out all the meat. 
Season well with salt and pepper 
and a dash of Cayenne. Chop the 
celery fine and mix with the crab 
meat. Place on a dish in pyramidal 
shape and pour over nicely a Sauce 
a. la Mayonnaise. (See recipe.) 
Garnish tastefully with sliced hard- 
boiled eggs, sliced beets, asparagus 
Or celery tips on top and around 
with sprigs of parsley and asparagus 
tips, with sliced lemon and sliced 
hard-boiled egg alternating. This ia 
a delicious salad. 

Crab Salad No. 2. 

Crabes en Salade. 

1 Dozen Large Crabs. 
2 Tablespoon fuls of Olive Oil. 
1 Tablespoonful of French Vinegar. 
1 Saltspoonful Salt. 1 Head Lottucc. 
Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Pick the boiled crabs carefully, 
keeping the pieces as large as pos- 
sible. Lay in a salad bowl. Mix a 
dressing of two tablespoonfuls of 
sweet oil, one of French vinegar, 
one saltspoon of salt, black pepper 
and Cayenne, according to taste, and 
pour over the crabs which have been 
cooled in the ice box. Clean the 
lettuce well and put a row of crisp 
leaves around the edge of the salad 
dish. Garnish nicely with sliced lem- 
on and hard-boiled eggs sliced. 

This is a delightful and simple 
way that the Creoles have of mak- 
ing crab salad. The above quantity 
will serve six persons. Increase in 
proportion to the number to be 
served. 

Crab Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent de Crabes. 

1 Dozen Large Crabs. 
Sliced Stale Bread. 
Butter. Milk. Cayenne. 
Salt. 

Boil according to recipe one doz- 
en fine large crabs and pick out ail 
the meat. Season nicely with salt, 
Cayenne and chopped thyme and bay 
leaf. Take stale bread and s.ice 
very thin. Lay in a little milk to 
moisten. Butter a baking pan and 
cover the bottom with a layer of 
bread. Then put in a layer of crab 
meat and lay over at intervals slices 
of lemon cut very fine and thin. Dot 
here and there with bits of but- 
ter, and then spread over another 
layer of bread. Then another layer 
of crabs, and repeat till the meat is 
used up. Lay on top a thick sprink- 



67 



ling of tread .crumbs, dotted with 
butter. Place in the oven and bake 
for about twenty ' minutes. Serve 
hot. 

So»-S1icIl Crabs. 
Crabes Mous. 

The soft-shell crab is greatly af- 
fected by epicures, and is a dainty 
dish that graces the most aristocra- 
tic tables. 

The soft-shell crab has always been 
considered a great luxury i.i New 
Orleans, where its possibilities as a, 
most delicate and savory dish were 
f.rst discovered. Northern epicures 
quick to appreciate the toothsome 
morsel, returned to their homes loud 
in their praises of this Creole dis- 
covery. The soft-shell crab is now 
being shipped North, and is a popu- 
lar feature of the Northern markets, 
though the prices range very high. 
It is said that the crab is so deli- 
cate that it does not stand shipment 
very well; sudden stopping of the 
express car often kills them; a clap 
of thunder will frighten them to 
death, while a sunbeam through 
glass will kill every one it shines 
upon. The soft-shell crab is found 
the year round in the New Orleans 
French Market. This crab is at its 
best when prepared according to the 
following Creole methods: 

Fried Soft-Shell Grubs. 

Crabes Mous Prites. 

1 Dozen Soft-Shell Crabs. 
1 Quart of Milk. Bread Crumbs. 
Salt, Pepper and Caj-enne to Taste. 
The greatest care must be taken in 
preparing and cleaning the crab. 
Wash carefully, removing all sand, 
but do not scald or blanch them, as 
this destroys the fine flavor com- 
pletely. Remove the spongy, fexth- 
ery substances under the side pjints. 
These are called the "ma'n-eaters," 
and are "very irritating and indi- 
gestible. Remove also the sand bag 
or "sand pouch" from under the shells 
just between the eyes; also remove 
the "tablier" or "apron." Then wash 
"tablier" or "apron." Then wash 
well in cold water and dry with a 
clean towel. Take a pint of milk 
and season well with pepper and 
salt; season the crabs and crack 
them in the milk, rubbing thorough- 
ly, so that the milk may thorough- 
ly impregnate them. Take out ond 
roll in a little sifted flour. Pat 
ISghtly with the hand, shake off 
superfluous flour "and fry in boiling 
grease, being always careful to have 
sufflcient grease in the pan for the 
crabs to swim in it. When a deli- 
cate golden brown, take out of the 
grease with a skimmer. Drain on 
a piece of heated brown paper, and 
serve on a bed of fried parsley, with 



garnishes' of sliced lemon. Serve 
with "Sauce ' k la Tartare." (See 
recipe.) 

Soft-shell Crabs are of too deli- 
cate a flavor to be dipped in egg bat- 
ter or burdened with bread crumbs. 

Broiled Soft-Shell Crabs. 

Crabes a. la Creole. 

1 Dozen Soft-Shell Crabs. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Flour, Sifted. 

Butter. Sliced Lemon. 

Parsley Garnish. 

It was a celebrated New Orleans 
chef who first decided to broil the 
Soft-Shell Crab. His success was 
great and "Crabes a. la Creole" were 
in great demand at once at the lio- 
tels and restaurants. To broil the 
Soft-Shell Crab always use the 
double wire broiler. Clean the crab 
according to the method given above 
and wash in cold water. Dry with a 
clean towel and season well. Season 
a pint of milk with salt and black 
pepper, and soak the crabs in it so 
as to thoroughly impregnate them 
with the milk. Then pat lightly 
with a little flour and brush over 
with melted butter. Place between 
the broiler and broil till a delicate 
brown over a slow Are. It will 
generally require about flfteen min- 
utes to cook thoroughly. Serve on 
a platter, nicely garnished with pars- 
ley, sprigs and lemon cut in quar- 
ters. Pour over the crabs a little 
melted .butter and chopped parsley, 
and you will have a famous Creole 
dish, fit for the table of a king — 
a dish served at the most aristocrat- 
ic functions. 

CRAWFISH. 
Des ficrevisses. 

Besides the famous Crawfish Bis- 
que (Bisque d'ficrevisses. See re- 
cipe) the Creoles have dainty ways 
of serving this typical Louisiana 
shell fish. Among the most popular 
are the following; 

Boiled CraiTfish. 

Des ficrevisses Bouillies. 

50 Cran-flsh. 1 Gallon of Water. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

Half Gallon of French Vinegar. 

Put the water on to boil, addins 
the chopped herb bouquet, one clove 
of garlic (chopped fine), one dozen 
allspice and six cloves. When the 
water has boiled long enough to 
have extracted all the juices of the 
herb bouquet, add white wine or the 
vinegar and salt — enough to make it 
almost briny, and Cayenne enough 
to make it hot. Then throw in the 
crawfish and let them boil about 
twenty minutes or until a bright red. 
Set them to cool in their own wa- 



tor and serve oa a platter piled 
high in pyramidal shape, and gar- 
nish nicely with sprigs of parsley 
and sliced lemon. Serve with salt 
and pepper, oil and Chili vinegar, 
each person making the dressing as 
it suits his taste. 

CrnTCfish Baked ft la Creole. 

ficrevisses Gratinges a. la Creole. 

50 Crawfish. 2 Livers. 

^ Can of Musbrooms. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Bouquet of Fine Herbs. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil according to rlscipe fifty large 
fine crawfish. "When cooked, allow 
them to cool in their own water. 
Clean them, picking oft the shells 
and leaving the crawfish whole. Take 
out all the smallest ones, and cut 
oil the tail ends of the largest ami 
place with the small ones; take the 
remainder of the large crawfish and 
cut up, and make a dressing with twj 
chopped livers, parsley, the minceJ 
contents of one-halt can of mush- 
rooms, the bouquet of fine herbs 
consisting of thyme, bay leaf, sweet 
marjoram, etc.; chop a half dozen 
shallots and add to the dressing, 
and season highly with Cayenne and 
salt and black pepper to taste. Cut 
up the yolks of two eggs and mix 
with a cup of the soft portion Oi' 
bread, which has been wet and 
thoroughly squeezed of all water. 
Place two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a frying pan and add the dress. ng 
when it begins to heat; cook about 
ten minutes and then place sin the 
dish in which the crawfish are to 
te served, making- a bed of the dress- 
ing. Arrange with symmetry and 
grace the reserve crawfish upon this 
bed, cover lightly with the rest of 
the stuffing, and dot with small bits 
of butter, after sprinkling with 
grated bread crumbs. Pour over all 
a Cream Sauce and the juice of a 
lemon. Place in the oven and let it 
bake about ten or fifteen minutes, 
and serve with Cream Sauce, sea- 
soned with lemon juice. (See re- 
cipe Cream Sauce.) 

A Crawfish Busli. 

Buisson d'£;crevisses. 

100 Fine Crawfish. Celery Tips. 

Asparagus Tips. Parsley Tips. 

This is a celebrated Creole hors 
d'oeuvre, as also a very handsome 
and graceful table garnish. Boil 
the Crawfish according to recipe 
(See recipe.) Take a glass fruit or 
cake stand and place in the center 
of the table. Set a, goblet upon it. 



Fit the goblet with celery tips and 
parsley tips, and hang a number oX 
Crawfish gracefully around the gob- 
let from the rim or outer edges., 
Continue hanging the dish with cel- 
ery, asparagus and parsley tips, and 
hanging the Crawfish around the 
edges of the fruit stand, and in and 
out amid the greenery. The effect 
of the red amid the green is very 
pretty, presenting the appearance 
of a beautiful bush of red and green. 
The Crawfish are served from the 
bush. 

TURTLE. 

De la Tortue. 

In addition to the delicious soups 
already given, the Creoles serve tur- 
tle after the following manner. 

Green Turtle Steaks. 

Filets de Tortue. 

2 Pounds of Turtle Steaks. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. Sliced Lemon ana 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Curi'ant Jelly Sauce or Sauce Poivrade. 

Select the female turtle, as the 
meat is best. If bought alive from 
the market, clean according to re- 
cipe. (See recipe for cleaning tur- 
tle. Otherwise the butcher may 
prepare it as is frequently done in 
the New Orleans market.) 

Turtle meat is very irregular, 
therefore cut the meat into thick 
slices or steaks, about the size of a 
filet of beef, and batter down with 
the hands to make smooth and regu- 
lar. Then fry In butter. Season 
well with salt and pepper and gar- 
nish with parsley and lemon, and 
serve w4th Currant Jelly Sauce or 
the delightful Sauce Poivrade. (See 
recipes.) 

Stewed Turtle. 

Ragoat de Tortue a la Bourgeoise. 

2 Pounds of Turtle Meat. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Sprig of 

Thyme. 

1 Cup of Water. 

A Wineglassfnl of Sherry or Madeira. 
Cut the meat of the turtle about 
an inch in size. Chop an onion and 
put all into a saucepan, with a ta- 
blespoonful of lard to brown. As it 
begins to brown, add a tablespoonful 
of flour, one bay leaf, one clove of 
garlic, and a sprig of thyme, chopped 
very fine. Mix this thoroughly witli 
the turtle meat, then add a wine- 
glassful of Sherry or Madeira, and a 
cup of watef, and cook for half an 
hour. 



CHAPTER XI. 
SALT AND CANNED FISH. 



Poissons Salfis. 



Halibut, Salmon, Fresh Codfish, 
Fresh Lobster, Shad and other fish 
peculiar to the Northern and Eastern 
waters are rarely seen on New Or- 
leans tables, except in the great ho- 
tels and restaurants, which import 
them. With these fish, in their fresh 
state, this book will not treat. But 
the Salt Codfish, Salted Mackerel and 
Canned Salmon are in general fam- 
ily use. The Salted Mackerel and 
Codfish, indeed, enter very largely 
into the daily household economy 
of New Orleans, especially on fast 
days, as also sardines. The follow- 
ing recipes are modeled after Cre- 
ole methods of preparation: 

CODFISH. 
' Salted Codfisb. 

De la Morue. 
First, and above all, it is neces- 
sary to "dessaler la Morue," as the 
Creoles put it, or to remove every 
trace and appearance of the salt in 
which the fish has been put up. Al- 
ways soak the codfish at least over- 
night or twenty-four hours before 
using in cold ivater, changing the 
water as often as possible, to assist 
in removing the salt; and always 
boil ori a hot fire fifteen or twenty 
minutes before making into any of 
the following dishes: 

Boiled Codflsli. 

La Morue Bouillie. 
Codfish. 3 Dozen Oysters. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Tablespoonful 
of Flonr. 
2 Gills of Fresli Cream or Milk. 
The Oyster Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 
Boil the Codfish about thirty or 
forty minutes, after soaking over- 
night; drain and serve with an Oys- 
ter Sauce, or Sauce aux Hultres, pre- 
pared as follows: Make a Cream 
Sauce (See recipe), only use, in this 
case, the strained juice of the oyster 
to blend the flour and butter, and 
add the rich cream or milk to make 
up the desired quantity, using al- 
ways good judgment. Scald the oys- 
ters in their own water about three 
minutes, and then add to the sauce, 
mixing thoroughly, seasoning with 
salt, pepper and Cayenne, using pref- 



I erably celery salt; let it boil up 
once and serve with the boiled Cod- 
fish. Egg Sauce (see recipe) may 
also be used with Boiled Codfish, 
but is not to be compared to the 
Oyster Sauce. 

^ Fried Codllsh. 

La Morue Frite. 

Codfish. 1 Pint of Milk. 
1 Egg. 1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Parsley and Lemon to Garnish. 
Soak the Codfish overnight, and 
boil twenty minutes, or until very 
tender; take out and cut into slices 
of one-inch thickness, and dry with 
a clean towel; have ready a pint of 
milk, and season well with pepper 
only; season the Codfish, rubbing a 
little black pepper to taste and a 
dash of Cayenne ' over it. Soak the 
fish in the milk, and have ready 
some crushed bread crumbs and a 
well-beaten egg; when the fish is 
well soaked, take out of the milk, 
and dip each slice first into the egg, 
and then roll in bread crumbs, pat- 
ting lightly, and drop in to the boil- 
ing lard; the fish must swim in the 
lard. When fried a golden brown, 
take out with a skimmer, drain oft 
all fat, and serve hot on a bed of 
fried parsley, garnished with sliced 
lemon. 

Stewed Codfish. 

Morue Sautge a. la Lyonnaise. 

1 Dozen Small Potatoes, or Left-Ovcr. 

Salt Cod, Enough for Six Persons. . 

1 Quart of Milk. 1 Dozen White Onions. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour Blended With Two 
of Milk. 
If the potatoes are not the left- 
over from the day before, wash and 
peel, and also the onion; boil the po- 
tatoes till tender; soak the fish over- 
night, and boil for twenty minutes, 
or until tender. Then cut the fish 
into pieces of about two or three 
inches in length. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of lard in the stewpan and lay In 
the potatoes and then the onions, 
and the Codfish on top; add enough 
cold water to cover the whole, and 
let it simmer until the fish Is well 
cooked. Then take out the fish, and 
allow the potatoes and onions- to sim- 



70 



mer on. Remove every piece ot bone 
from the fish, and tyim edges nicely. 
Take another saucepan and dissolve 
in another stewpan the butter and 
flour, as directed above; let this sim- 
mer gently without browning-, and 
then put in the potatoes, onions and 
fish in the order given above; pour 
over this the quart of cream or milk; 
let it simmer for about ten minutes 
more till the milk comes to a boil, 
and serve hot. 

Creamed Co^Jsh. 

Morue a, la CrSme. 

3 Cups of Picked Codflsli. 
1 Pint and a Half of Cream. 
TLe Yolk of 1 Egg. 
Soak the codfish overnight, and 
then let it boil about forty minutes. 
Then take off scald again and drain, 
and again scald and drain, allowing 
it to stand each time about four or 
five minutes before changing the wa- 
ter. Put one large tablespoonful of 
butter in the frying pan; when 
melted add the flour and blend, 
without browning; then add the 
milk, stirring constantly until ■ it 
boils, and then add the fish, sea- 
soning higlily with pepper and Ca- 
yenne. Let it boil about ten min- 
utes longer, and take off tlie fire; 
then add the yolk, of an egg which 
has been beaten thoroughly, and 
serve hot, with plain boiled potatoes 
buttered. 

Codflsh Balls. 

Croquettes de Morue. 

2 Cups ot Picked Codfish. 

2 Cups of Mashed Potatoes. 

^ Cup of Cream. 

Bretd Crumbs. 2 Beaten Eggs. 

Pepper and Cayenne to Taste, 

Soak the Codfish overnight and 
boil until tenjier. Pour off this wa- 
ter, and scald again with hot wa- 
ter; pick fine, scald again and then 
drain thoroughl'y, pressing out all 
the water. Mash the potatoes, and 
melt about three 'tablespoonfuls of 
butter and mix well in the potatoes. 
Then add the Codfish and mix thor- 
oughly, seasoning with about a tea- 
spOontul of black pepper, and a dash 
of Cayenne to taste. Add this to 
the cream, and again mix. Mold tha 
Codfish info round or oval balls: 
then roll in the egg, which has been 
well beaten, and pass through the 
bread crumbs, patting gently, and 
lay them in a frying basket, it you 
have one, and sink into the boiling 
lard. Otherwise drop Into the boil- 
in^ lard, having tested the heat with 
a bit of bread. The balls must swim 
in the lard. When a golden brown, 
lift out the basket, or skim out the 
balls with a skimmer; drain well of 
all the fat by laying on a heated 



brown paper, and then serve ho: 
on a dish garnished with sprigs ot 
parsley. This quantity will make 
about a dozen and a half balls or 
croquettes. There is no difference 
between the preparation of the Cod- 
fish Ball and the Codfish Croquette, 
the only difference being in tne-iorm 
of molding, the croquette being oval 
or elongated, in cylindrical shapes, 
and the ball being molded round and 
a little flattened on top. 

Codjisli Dacalao, 

Baealao 4 la Vizcaina. 

1 Pound of Salted Codfish. 
1 Large Onion, Chopiied Fine. 

1 Pint ot Rich Tomato Sauce. 

2 Cloves of Garlic, Chopped Fine. Croutons, 
1 Ued Pepper. 

2 Tablespoonfuls ot Olive Oil. 
Pi'pper to Taste. 6 Tomatoes. 

Thyme. Bay Leaf. Parsley. 

Soak the Codfish well overnight, 
and in the morning boil for about 
forty-five minutes, until very ten- 
der. Wlien you set it to boil, put 
the fish first in cold water. After 
it has boiled, scald again thorough- 
ly, and pick out all the bones and 
set away to cool. Then prepare a 
rich Tomato Sauce, according to the 
following directions: Take six 

large fresh tomatoes, or a half can 
of tomatoes, and add a heaping ta- 
blespoonful of butter, four sprigs 
of parsley, thyme and two bay 
leaves, all chopped very fine; add 
two chopped onions and a clove of 
garlic, chopped fine, and which has 
been fried in a little butter. Set 
the saucepan, with the sauce, into 
boiling water, and add pepper and 
Cayenne and a pinch of salt to taste. 
Stew very gently for about two 
hours or longer, it necessary. Then 
strain the sauce and make a rou.K 
with one tablespoonful ot butter 
and two of flour; stir and let it 
brown lightly, and stir in the sauce. 
Boil about tour minutes longer un- 
til rich and thick. Then fry the 
remaining large onion and clove of 
garlic, chopped very fine, in a gill 
of olive oil, or two tablespoonfuls of 
butter it the taste of the oil is dis- 
liked, and when it browns add this 
to the sauce and a red sweet pep- 
per, finely chopped. Cut about a doz- 
en Crotitons. In dice or diamond 
shapes, from the soft part ot the 
bread, and try in boiling lard. Heat 
a dish, put the Codfish into it, pour 
over the Tomato Sauce, border the 
dish with the fried CroQtons, and 
set in the oven, allowing it to bake 
ten or fifteen, minutes longer. The 
Spanish red peppers are the best tor 
this sauce. Black pepper may be 
added if desired. 



71 



SALT MACKBREIL. 

Du Maquereau. 

Salt Mackerel is either boiled or 
broiled, and either mechod of cook- 
ing according to the subjoined re- 
cipes makes a most palatable and 
delicately toothsome dish. 

Boilsd Salt Mackerel. 

Maquereau Bouilli. 

2 Salt Mackerel. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Chopped Parsley and Sliced Lemou to Garnish. 
Soak the Mackerel overnight, and 
in the morning take out o( the wa- 
ter, wash thoroughly, taking off 
every portion of salt, and wash 
again. Have ready a deep pan of 
•boiling water; place the Mackerel 
within and let it boil ten or fifteen 
minutes until done, which can be 
known by the flesh beginning to 
part from the bones. Serve whole 
on a platter garnished with parsley. 
Pour over the Mackerel melted but- 
ter and chopped parsley, and bring 
to the table very hot. 

Mackerel boiled or broiled is a 
very nice breakfast dish on fast 
days. Serve with potatoes, boiled 
whole or made into croquettes. 

Broiled Mackerel. 

Maquereau GrillS. 

2 Salt Mackerel. 1 Cup of Milk. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter, or a Cream Sauce. 

Sliced Lemon, Olives and Parsley Sprigs 
to Garnish. 

Soak the Mackerel and wash thor- 
oughly as directed above, only us- 
ing boiling water. Have ready some 
milk, seasoned well with black pep- 
per and soak the Mackerel in the 
milk until thoroughly impregnated. 
Take out and wipe dry with a towel. 
Then dredge the Mackerel with but- 
ter, and place between a double 
broiler, over a slow Are, broiling 
about fifteen or twenty minutes, th3 
under side being allowed to broil 
first. When done, take off and pour 
over melted butter and chopped pars- 
ley; garnish the dish with sprigs of 
parsley, sliced lemons and olives, 
and serve hot. A Cream Sauce may 
be also served instead of the but- 
ter, and makes a very delicious dish. 

SAIiMOjV. 

Mayonnaise de Saumon. 
1 Can of Salmon. 2 Heads of Crisp Lettuce. 

1 Cup of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Sauce a la Mayonnaise. 

A Mayonnaise of Salmon is a very 

good luncheon dish, and is frequently 

served in New Orleans. To one can 

of Salmon allow two good sized 



heads of young lettuce. Make a bed 
of the crisp hearts of the leaves, and 
tear the other leaves into small 
pieces with a fork, making very del- 
icate shreds. Drain the oil from the 
can of Salmon, and separate the fish 
into flakes. Take a cupful of boil- 
ing milk and a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and two of flour, and Stir over 
the flre until quite smooth. Add to 
this a tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley and the Salmon. Season with 
pepper and salt, and let it cook about 
ten minutes. Set away to cool, and 
then place on the bed of lettuce 
leaves. Cover with a Sauce a la 
Mayonnaise (see recipe), and gar- 
nish nicely with sliced hard-boiled 
eggs, celery tips, etc., and serve. 
Salmon Salad. 
Saumon en Salade. 

1 Can of Salmon. 
1-3 the Quantity of Chopped Celery. 
2 Hard-Boiled Kggs. 
Sliced Lemon. Olives. 1 Pickled Beet. 
A Plain French Dressing. 
Canned Salmon may be made into 
a delighful salad for luncheon or 
supper. Flake the salmon, heap into 
a salad bowl, and mix with chopped 
celery, using one-third of the latter 
in proportion to the quantity of 
salmon. Add a Plain French Dress- 
ing. (See recipe.) "When ready to 
serve, turn into a salad dish, on 
which you have arranged a crisp 
bed of lettuce. Garnish with sliced 
lemon, olives and hard-boiled eggs, 
and with one daintily sliced pickled 
beet. 

HERRINGS. j 

Des Harengs. 

The Salted Herrings, such as come 
to New Orleans, must first of all be 
soaked thoroughly overnight, or 
longer, to take away all salt. Then 
they are cleaned nicely and broiled 
and served with a cream sauce or 
drawn butter sauce, preferably the 
former. They are also cut into filets 
and eaten without further cooking 
or "Crfl," as we say here, and also 
as an hors d'oeuvre. 

ANCHOVY. 
Des Anchois. 

Anchovies are served as a prelimi- 
nary to the most aristocratic din- 
ners, being drained of the oil. which 
clings to them after being taken 
from the can. Three or four anch- 
ovies are then placed between deli- 
cate soda biscuit, and tied with a 
bit of ribbon in squares, with a 
dainty bow cut short in the center. 
The effect is very pretty. The anch- 
ovies are also mashed and placed be- 
tween the crackers, like a sandwich 
Either way is excellent and elegant. 



72 



Ancliovy Salad. 

Salade d'Anchois. 

This salad is a dainty disli for 
lunclieon or supper. Have an oval 
dish and arrange the anchovies, 
drained of oil, crosswise on a bed of 



crisp lettuce, or of chopped water- 
cress. Surround with a border of 
chopped whites of eggs and a simi- 
lar border of chopped watercresses, 
and pour over all a sour French 
Dressing. (See recipe.) Ancho- 
vies are used as an elegant hors 
d'oeuvre. 



CHAPTER XII. 
MEATS. 

Des Viandes. 



Meats are, of course, common to 
every clime and country, but not 
every people have the palatable and 
appetizing methods of preparation 
that have been handed down to the 
Creoles of Louisiana by their French 
and Spanish ancestors and so modi- 
fied and improved upon that it may 
be said that they have created a new 
school of cookery In the choice 
preparation and serving of beef, 
veal, mutton, pork and venison. Our 
"roties," or roasts, our methods of 
broiling, our delightful "ragouts," 
our famous "grillades," our unique 
"daubes," in a word, our dozen and 
one highly nutritious and eminently 
agreeable combinations of meats, 
with vegetables, and our unequaled 
manner of seasoning, have given to 
the Creole kitchen a fame that has 
been as lasting as well deserved. 

The Creoles have discovered that 
almost any portion of the beef from 
the head to the tail may be deli- 
cately and temptingly prepared, so 
as to please even the most fastidious 
palates. They have reduced the sci- 
ence of cooking meats to a practical 
system that works the most benefi- 
cial effects in the homes of the poor, 
and which enables the family of 
moderate means to live not only eco- 
nomically, but with as much real 
ease and luxury, even as the wealthy 
classes. 

The secret of cooking meat proper- 
ly, of course, lies much in the sea- 
soning- and the relative time ot cook- 
ing different varieties; but much in- 
deed, everything depends upon the 
choice of the meat. The following 

Guides In Cliooslng Meat 

are given, so that the housekeeper 
may make no mistake in this impor- 
tant choice of the quality of meat 
which she selects for her family: 
Beef, when young, has a fine, open 



grain and good red color. The fatty 
part should be a yellowish white, 
for, when very yellow the meat is 
seldom of the best. Beef in which 
the fat is hard and skinny and the 
lean meat a deep red, with coarse 
fibers, is of an inferior quality; 
when the meat is old, it can be told 
by a line of horny textures running 
through the meat of the ribs. The 
lean on the cut surface shoilld show 
a deep purplish red tint, and the 
beef should be marbled with fat, 
which shows the animals have been 
well fed. 

In Mutton the cut surface should 
have the same purplish tint, but 
should be quite even in hue through- 
out. The color of the muscle should 
be neither too pale nor too dark. If 
pale and moist, it indicates that the 
animal was young or diseased; and 
if dark and livid, it shows that In 
all probability the animal was 
slaughtered , but died with the blood 
in it. Both muscle and fat should 
be elastic yet firm to the touch, not 
moist or sodden, and the fat should 
be free from blood specks. 

While the raw fat of beef should 
be of a light yellow color,, like that 
of suet, the fat of mutton should be 
white. The quality of meat depends 
la;rgely upon the free intermixture 
of streaks of fat with muscular fiber. 
The muscular fibers should not be 
large or coarse,' nor should there be 
any gummy or purple-looking fluid 
in the cellular tissues. The surface 
of good meat should be perfectly 
• dry, and even the cut surface should 
scarcely wet the finger. 

The muscular fiber of beef in poor 
condition or wasting from disease 
is pale in color, and a quantity of 
watery fat of bad colCr is mixed 
up with it. The meat itself is wet, 
fiabby and inelastic and pits when 
the point of the finger is pressed 



ag£Lthst it: Such meat, it need hard- 
ly be said, is unfit (or human food. 

The odor of good meat should be 
slight and not by any means disa- 
greeable. An unpleasant odor indi- 
cates that putrefaction has begun 
or that the meat is diseased. A very 
good plan to detect any unpleasant- 
ness of odor is to thrust a clean knife 
into the flesh. If any disagreeable 
odor clings, the meat is unfit for 
use. 

The internal parts, that are so gen- 
erally used in cooking, such as the 
heart, liver, kidneys, sweetbreads, 
should have no unpleasant smell and 
must be free from spots of conges- 
tion or bruises. As these parts de- 
compose much more rapidly than the 
flesh of the carcass, they should not 
be kept long before being cooked, 
and, when cooked, should not be sub- 
jected to a very strong or prolonged 
heat, because it makes them hard 
and indigestible. 

The amount of bone in meat varies 
considerably, but, on the average, it 
is not less than 8 per cent. Iii shins 
and legs of beef, it amounts to one- 
third, and sometimes to one-half the 
total weight, while in the neck and 
brisket it amounts to about 10 per 
cent. The most economical parts 
are the round and thick flank, then 
the. sticking pieee and- brisket, and 
lastly the leg. In mutton and pork 
the leg is the most profitable, and 
then the shoulder. 

Sheep heads make excellent broth, 
and ox tail a veiy good soup, but 
both require longer time to extract 
the nutriment wholly. If boiled for 
eight hours, the head of the ox will 
yield about one fourth of its weight 
in gelatine, and the cheek will fur- 
nish nearly four pounds of good 
meat. Shins of beef malfa excellent 
soup, but, like the ox head, require 
long-er boiling; Even bones, when 
stripped of the meat, contain a con- 
siderable amount of fat and nitro- 
genous matter, so that six pounds 
of bones, when broken up and boiled 
for nine hours, will yield an amount 
of nitrogen equal to that contained 
in a pound of meat and twice as much 
fat. The old Creole cooks always 
ask the butcher to throw in some 
bones (cracked) when they purchase 
meat for soup. 

Mutton must be chosen for the 
firmness and fineness of the grain, 
its color and the firm, white fat. 
Good mutton is generally small. 

Lamb that has been killed too 
long can be detected by examination 
of the veins on the neck. If these 
are bluish, then the meat is fresh;, 
if greenish, the meat is stale. In 
the hind quarter the point to exam- 
ine is the knuckle, which is not firm 
when the meat is not perfectly fresh. 



The best veal is very firm and of a 
pinkish white. Never purchase veal 
that has a bluish tinge. The veal 
should not be less than six weeks 
old, nor more than six months. The 
best season for veal is from April to 
October; from that time till the next 
April the meat is not very good and 
generally stringy. Like all young 
meats it spoils very quickly, espe- 
cially in our climate. "Veal should 
always be well cooked. It furnishes 
an endelss variety of dishes. 

Mutton is divided into the fore 
and hind quarters, and these are 
subdivided into the leg and the loin. 
The fore quarter is subdivided into 
the shoulder, breast and neck. A 
saddle of mutton is two loins. The 
fatter the mutton the more tender 
the lean parts, but the mutton must 
never be overgrown nor over-fat. The 
leg, shoulder and loins of mutton 
make nice roasting pieces. The 
breast and neck are good for soups 
and stews. The loins are also cut 
into French chops and loin chops. 

Pork, in every form, is indiges- 
tible, and should never be eaten by 
persons of weak digestion, by young 
children, nor by the old and feeble. 
In New Orleans it should only be 
eaten between December and April, 
when the weather is very cold; never 
in summer or late spring and au- 
tumn. Pork should always be thor- 
oughly cooked. In selecting pork 
be guided by the grain of the meat. 
It should always be of a fine grain 
and the skin smooth. The lean must 
be of a pale red color, the fat white 
and the skin smooth and clear. If 
the flesh is soft, and if the fat is of 
a yellowish white, or full of small 
kernels, reject the meat, as it is sure- 
ly diseased and unfit for food. 

Pork is divided into the leg, shoul- 
der, the chine, the spare ribs, mid- 
dlings, head and feet. The best parts 
for roasting are the loins and legs. 
But the nicest roast is always the 
sucking pig or "cochon de lait," as 
the Creoles call it. The sucking pig 
should be no more than four or five 
weeks old and not less, and should 
always be roasted the day after it 
is killed. 

Bacon differs from ha,m and meat 
in the relatively large proportions 
of fat and the small proportion of 
water. It Is a great favorite with all 
classes on account of its fiavor. its 
facilities for cooking, the many com- 
binations into which it enters in 
preparation of delicate dishes, and 
because it is easily kept and always 
handy.- As it is rich in carbona- 
ceous food, it forms a suitable ad- 
junct to substances which are rich 
rabbits, eggs, beans, peas, cabbage, 
turnips and lentils. Its flivoring 



74 



qualities can make a dish of the 
homeliest vegetables palatable as 
well as nutritious. 

With these suggestions as to 
choosing meat and the relative value 
of food properties they contain, the 
Picayune vi'ill lay down the following 

Unfailing Rule Which the Creoles 
Follow 

in cooking meats; 

Always remember that Beef and 
Mutton must be cooked rare, and 
Pork and Veal well done. 

Beet should always be roasted, 
broiled or smothered. 

Mutton may be roasted, broiled 
boiled or stewed. 

Veal may be roasted, stewed, 
smothered or fried, when cut into 
chops. 

Pork is always roasted or fried. 

Ham is broiled, boiled or fried. 

Bacon is broiled, fried or boiled, 
the latter when cooked with ve.ge- 
tables. 

Venison is roasted or made into 
"ragout," like Beef a. la Mode, and 
the cutlets are broiled. The meat 
of venison should be of fine grain 
and well covered with fat. If the 
venison is very young, the hoofs are 
but slightly opened; if old, the hoofs 
stand wide apart. 

With this preliminary the Pica- 
yune will now present the various 
Creole forms of preparing meats. 

BEEF. 

Du Boeuf. 
Roast Beef. 

Boeuf Roti. 
The first four ribs of the beef are 
always the best for a roast. The 
tenderloin lies here, and two good 
ribs or a "full cut," as the butchers 
term it, should be enough to mak2 
a fine roast for a family of six. Al- 
ways remember that if the roast 
IS cut too thin, the Juices dry too 
rapidly and the exquisite flavor is 
gone. After the ribs come the sir- 
loin and the spine bone as seconl- 
and third choice. Have the butcher 
skewer the roast so that it will 
have a nice shape when it comes on 
the table and will retain all the 
Juice of the beef. Leave the bones 
in the -roast, as the meat will be far 
sweeter than when taken out. Rub 
the meat well with salt and p.epper 
dredge slightly with lard arid set 
in a hot oven. The heat of the oven 
at once - coagulates the blood and 
prevents it from escaping, thus ren- 
dering the meat nutritious. Every 
now and then baste the beef with 
Its own Juices and let it cook add- 
ing ho water, as suflieient fat runs 
from the beef to baste with. Allow 
fifteen minutes to every pound of 
meat if one likes the meat rare 



otherwise allow twenty minutes. But 
the Creoles always roast beef rare. 
To ascertain the desired state, occa- 
sionally stick a needle into the beef. 
If the blood spurts up, the meat is 
ready to serve, and, cooked to this 
point, is a most nutritious dish. 
Watch carefully and do not let it 
pass this stage. Serve on a dish in 
its own gravy. The practice of 
making a gravy of flour, etc., for 
roast beef is condemned by the best 
ethics of Creole cookery. 

PUct of Beef I..arded. 

Filet de Boeuf PiquS. 

■ 1 Filet of Beef. 

Lard Sufflcient to Lard Thoroughly. 

1 Small Onloa. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Cloves, if desired. 

I'A Tablespoonfuls of ■ Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Glace. (See receipt.) 

1 Glass of Madeira or Sherry Wine (or Water). 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Trim the filet nicely, removing the 
outer muscular skin. Lard the fllet 
well, using larding needles. The lard 
must be very thin, like a shoestring. 
The larding is done by filling the 
needles with the lard and pushing 
them through the filet as far as 
they will go. If the needles are 
long enough, thej' will come out on 
llie other side of the filet, leaving the 
lard within. Repeat this process all 
down the center and along the sides 
-of 'the fllet, about an inch apart, and 
have the rows neat and even. If 
you have not a larding needle, make 
incisions with a knife, and push the 
lard in with your finger, but the fllet 
is never as Juicy and tender, nor 
does it look so clean and even when 
baked. When well larded, dredge 
well with salt and pepper, rubbing 
this thoroughly into the beef.. Cut up 
one small onion, one bay leaf, and 
mash four cloves, and place in the 
bottom of the baking pan. Lay the 
larded filet on this bed, the larded 
side being uppermost. Put small 
bits of butter equal to a half table- 
spoonful on top, and bake in a quick 
oven thirty minutes. This dish is 
always' eaten rare. To ascertain If 
sufliciently done, stick a fork into the 
fllet; if the blood bubbles out, it is 
ready to serve. The meat when done 
is always spongy and elastic to the 
touch. 

In the meantime, prepare the fol- 
lowing brown sauce: Take one ta- 
blespoonful of butter and one of 
Glace (see recipe under chapter 
"Sauces for Meats, Fish, etc."), and 
three of water; rub smoothly and 
melt in a saucepan, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent burning. When 
brown, add one glass of Madeira or 
Sherry wine and add a half cup of 
water. Season well with salt and 
pepper. Pour over the filet, which 
must be placed in a hot dish, and 
serve. 



75 



Fllet of Beef linrilecl WltU Mush- 
roonia. 

Filet de Boeuf PiquS aux Cham- 
pignons. 

1 Filet of Beef. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Trim and lard the beef according 
to the directions given in the above 
recipe, and balce in the same man- 
ner — rare. When it has cooked for 
a half hour In a quick oven, it vifill 
be done. Then make a sauce as fol- 
lows: Take one tablespoonful of but- 
ter and one of Glace and three of 
water; melt the butter and add the 
Glace, browning nicely without burn- 
ing, and stirring constantly. When 
brown 'add one glass of Madeira or, 
Sherry wine, if desired, and one-half 
pint of water. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Then add a half can of 
mushrooms, chopped very fine. Stir 
well and let it boil about ten min- 
utes, so as not to be too thick nor 
yet too thin. The intelligent cook 
will judge by tasting to see that it 
is seasoned properly. Place the fllet 
in a hot dish and pour the sauce over 
and serve hot. 

Fllet of Beef With Truffles. 

Filet de Boeuf PiquS aux Trutfes ou 
a. la PSrigeux. 

1 Fllet of Beet. Vs, Can of Truffles. 

J6 Glass of Sherry. 1 Pint of Broth or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in the same manner as in 
the preparation of Filet of Beef 
Larded. When it has baked for a 
half hour, make a sauce as follows: 
One tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan; add two tablespoonfuls of 
Glace (see recipe under chapter 
"Sauces for Meats, Fish, etc.") and 
add a half wineglass of Sherry and 
one pint of broth or water. Let it 
boil slowly for ten minutes, ani add 
one-half can of truffles, chopped very 
fine, if a, la Pgrigeux; if aux truftes, 
cut in dice.. Let.thesauce boil slowly 
twenty minutes longer, and then pour 
over the fllet, serving hot. 

Truffles are always an expensive 
dish and quite above the means of 
the great majority of people. Ths 
dish should never be attempted by a 
family who wishes to live economi- 
cally. 

Broiled Beefetcak. 

Filet de Boeuf GrillS. 

3 Pounds of Steak for Broiling Purf>oscs. 

1 TahlesDoonful ot Butter. The Juice of 

1 Lemon. 

Chopped Parsley and Lettuce Leaves 

to Garnish. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The cut known as the "Porterhouse 



Steak," is unquestionably the best 
for broiling. The next in order is the 
sirloin, where there are always choice 
cuts, but the entire sirloin is not 
profitable for broiling and the coarse 
ends may be used in making stews, 
gumbos, etc. The rib steak is very- 
nutritious, as also the round, but the 
Creoles never broil these. There is 
an art in broiling a beefsteak proper- 
ly, and the Creoles have certainly at- 
tained this in its perfection. The 
broiler in a well-regulated house- 
hold is always put on a furnace ot 
hot charcoals in preference to the 
open front of the stove. The coals 
not only render the meat free from 
any deleterious effects, should, by 
chance, the meat not be from a per- 
fectly healthy animal, but the broil- 
ing over the coals gives the meat a 
flavor one vainly seeks otherwise. 
Dredge the meat well witli salt and 
pepper and then brush lightly with 
butter. Place it on the hot gridiron 
and let it 'broil quickly for four min- 
utes; then turn on the other side fur 
four minutes longer. When done take 
off, place in a hot dish, butter nicely 
and sprinkle chopped parsley over, 
and the juice of a lemon, and serve 
immediately. The great secret of 
good broiling lies in the proper fire, 
the clean broiler, the right length, of 
time, the quality of the steak, which 
should never be tough, and lastly and 
not the least important of all, eating 
the steak directly after it comes from 
the coals. 



Smothered Beefsteak, 

Filet BraisS. 

Braising or smothering meat is a 
mode of cooking little understood by 
the Americans, but which has been 
brought by the Creoles" to a high 
state of perfection. By this pro- 
cess the meat is just covered and no 
more, with a little water, or with a 
strong broth made from animal stock 
or the juices of vegetables. The pot 
is covered- with a closely-fitting lid 
and is put on a slow flre and allowed 
to simmer slowly for two or three 
hours, just short of the boiling 
point. By this slow process of cook- 
ing, tough meats are rendered juicy, 
tender and very agreeable to the 
palate, while the covered pot enables 
the 'meat to retain all its flavor. 

The great secret in smothering 
meat is to let it cook very slowly, 
simmering, however, all the time, 
so that the heat may thoroughly 
penetrate and render tender and 
juicy the coarse fiber of the meat. 
When tender, put the beefsteak into 
a platter, cover with the onions and 
gravy, and you will have a delicious 
and delicately flavored dish. 



70 



Ueefsteak Smothered in Onions. 

Filet BraisS aux Ognons. 

3 Pounds of Round Steak. 

6 Onions, sliced fine. 1 Tablespooutul of Lavd. 

1 Tablespoontal of Tlour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

2 Sprigs each of Tli.vme and Bay Leaf. 

H Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Clove ot Garlic. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Beat the round steak well with the 
rolling- pin or steak hammer; CTit 
off the outer skin and- press the mea-t 
back into shape. Place the tahle- 
spoonful of lard in the deep frying 
pan and let it melt. Then lay in the 
sliced onions, and over these the 
beefsteak, which has been well sea- 
soned with salt and pepper and 
dredgred with the flour. Cover close- 
ly. Let it simmer over a hot fire for 
a few minutes anl then turn the 
steak on the other side. After three 
rrinutes, add two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, chopped parsley, thyme and 
bay leaf and a clove of garlic. Turn 
the steak, letting the flour brown 
well, and keep the pot closely cov- 
ered. When brown pour over one cup 
of water, or a pint, which will be 
sufBcient to cover the meat. Bring 
this to a brisk boil and set the pot 
back where it can simmer gently for 
about t^vo hours. 

Filets of beef may be smothered in 
the same manner, only these will re- 
quire no beating with the steak ham- 
mer. 

Ftlct of Beef Smolhered Witli 
mushroom^ or Truffles. 

Filet de Boeuf Brais6 aux Champign- 
ons, ou aux Truffes. 
1 Filet of Beef. 
1 Can of Mushrooms or % Can of Trufflea. 
G Onions, sliced fine. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flonr. 
2 Sprigs each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 
1 Clove of Garlic. 
1 Pint of Hot Water. 
Salt,' Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Smother the beef, using a filet for 
this delicious dish according to the 
recipe given for Smothered Beefsteak. 
After it has cooked about a half hour 
add one can of mushrooms and let 
it continue to simmer gently for an 
hour and a half longer. When ready 
to serve, add, if possible, a gill or a 
small wineglass of Sherry or White 
Wine; boil ten minutes longer. Put 
the filet in a dish, place the mush- 
rooms over and around as a garnish, 
pour over the sauce and serve. 

If truffles are. used instead ot the 
mushrooms, add one-halt can and 
proceed in exactly the same manner 
as when using the mushrooms. 



Filet of Beef "W'ltli Tomatoes. 

Filet de Boeut BraisS aux Tomates. 

1. Filet of Beef. 1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

C Onions, sliced fine. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flonr. 
2 Sprigs each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 
3 Sprigs of Parsley. 
% Can of Tomatoes or G Large Fresh Ones. 
1 Pint of Hot Water. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Smother the filet in exactly the 
same manner as already described. 
When cooked for about a halt hour, 
add one-half can of tomatoes and 
their Juice, or six large fresh toma- 
toes sliced in their juice. Let the 
m^ixture simm.er for an hour and a 
half longer, season well and serve, 
pouring the gravy over the filet. 

Filet of Beef Wltli Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Filet BraisS aux Tomates Farcies. 

1 Filet of Be6f. 

1 Dozen Uniform-Sized Tomatoes. 

1 Cup of Mushrooms. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

% Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Smother the filet according to the 
directions given above, adding two 
chopped tomatoes to the sauce. Take 
the tomatoes an-d cut off the stem 
end, scoop out the soft inside, being 
careful to retain the skins in proper 
shape. Then take a half cup of 
mushrooms, one-half cup ot stale 
bread crumbs, whi.ch have been wet 
and squeezed, one clove ot garlic, 
chopped very fine, and one grated on- 
ion, a sprig ot chopped parsley. Chop 
the mushrooms fine, place a table- 
spoonful ot butter into a trying pan, 
and, when melted, add the bread 
crumbs which have been seasoned 
with salt and pepper and Cayenne, 
and mixed thoroughly Tvith the 
chopped onion or garlic and the par- 
sley. When these begin to fry, add 
the chopped mushrooms, stirring 
constantly for about five or eight 
minutes. Serve with Stuffed Toma- 
toes (see recipe.) 

Beef a la Mode. 

Daube. 

5 Pounds of the Uump or thft Round of the 

Beef. 

44 Pound of Salt Fat. 

Large Onions. 2 Turnips. 5 Carrots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Clove ot Garlic. 

1 Glass of Sherry, Madeira or Claret (It 

Desired.) 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

2 Bay Leaves. 

Sprigs of Thyme and Parsley. 

Cut the tat ot the salt meat into 
thin shreds. Chop the onion and bay 
leaf very fine, as also the garlic, 
thyme and cloves. Rub the shreds 
well with s^lt and pepper. Take 
the rump of beef and lard thickly by 



making- incisions about tliree or four 
inches in lengtli and inserting the 
pieces of salt fat and spices, onion 
and tliyme and garlic, mixed thpr- 
ougiily. Take two large onions and 
cut into quarters and put in a sauce- 
pan with one tablespoonful of lard. 
Let the slices brown and then lay 
on top the rump of beef, well lardeJ. 
Cover closely and let it simmer very 
slowly till well browned. Then add 
the chopped bay leaf and parsley. 
When brown add five carrots cut into 
squares of an inch, and two turnips, 
cut in the same manner, and two 
large onions, chopped fine. Let the 
whole brown, keeping well covered, 
and cooking slowly over a slow but- 
regular Are. Be always careful to 
keep the cover very tight on the pot. 
When it has simmered about ten 
minutes, turn the daube on the other- 
side, cover closely and let it sim- 
mer ten minutes more. Then cover 
with sufficient boiling water to cover 
the daube; or, better still, if yoj 
have it, use instead of the water, 
boiling "consommS" or "pot-au-teu," 
and, if possible, a glass of Sherry 
or Madeira wine; or, if you have 
neither of these, which are always to 
be preferred in cooking meats, a 
glass of good Claret. Season ac- 
cording to taste with salt, Cayenne 
and black pepper. Cover -the pot 
tight and set it back on the stove, 
letting it smother slowly for about 
three hours, or until tender. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Cold Daabe & la Creole. 

Daube Froide a. la CrSole. 

This is one of the most excellent 
dishes made by the Creoles, and is 
always a great standby for luncheons 
in winter. Take 

3 Pounds of the Rump or Rouud of the Beef. 
2 Pounds of Veal Kurap. 

2 Pips' Feet. Vi Pound of Salt Fat Meat. 

5 Large Ouious. 2 Turnips. 

5 Carrots. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 3 Bay Leaves. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Glass of Sherry. 

3 Sprigs of Thyme and Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Cut the salt meat into shreds, roll 
well in Cayenne and black pepper. 
Chop finely several sprigs of thyme 
and three bay leaves, one clove of 
garlic, three sprigs of parsley, and 
mash well three cloves and six all- 
spice. Roll the strips of salt meat, 
which must be about three inches in 
length and one-half inch thick, in 
this. Make incision into the rump of 
meat and force in the strips of fat 
meat and the spices. Then rub the 
whole well with salt and pepper, 
judging according to taste, and pro- 
ceed to cook according to the re- 
cipe for Beef a. la Mode. Let the 
Daube cook about four hours when 
you intend to serve it cold. 



In the meantime, in another pot, 
place a veal steak of about two 
pounds, and two ' pigs' feet. Sea- 
son well with salt and pepper and 
Cayenne, and cover well with four 
quarts of water, and let them boil. 
Add one bay leaf, one sprig of 
thyme, one-half clove of garlic and 
one onion, all minced very fine, ana 
two cloves mashed into almost a 
jelly, and one glass of Sherry or Ma- 
deira wine. Let these boil well with 
the veal and pigs' feet. Then, when 
the veal and pigs' feet are cooked 
very tender, take them out of the 
pot and mince the meat of each very 
fine; return to the sauce, and again 
season highly, according to taste, 
for the flavor depends upon the 
piquant seasoning. After the daube. 
has cooked four or five hours, take 
off the stove and pour over the sauce 
and set all in a cool place. Serve 
the next day — cold, cutting into thin 
slices. It will all have formed a 
jelly that is most delicious and appe- 
tizing. 

Daube Froide a la Crfiole has only 
to be tried once to be repeated. It is 
a standing dish for luncheon in every 
Creole home during the winter, for 
it is never essayed in summer, owing 
to the heated weather that would 
prevent the jellying of the beef. Even 
when put in an ice box it is not the 
same as when made in winter. It 
is a dish that may be served with 
little cost to the most fastidious. 

Beef Marine. 

Eoeuf Maring. 

4 Pounds of Beef, from the Round or Shoulder. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

3 Bay Leaves. 1 Onion. 1 Lemon. 

1 Taljlespoonful of Vinegar. 

% Teaspoonful eacli of Ground Cloves, 

Mace and Allspice. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

The "brisket" of the -beef is ex- 
cellent for this, as also the "breast 
plate." Mix the spices, salt and pep- 
per thoroughly and rub well into 
both sides of the beef. Chop the on- 
ions fine, and cover the meat with 
them. Then mix the oil and vinegar 
and the juice of one lemon, and pour 
this over the meat. Set it in tlie ice 
box, or a cool place, and let it stand 
overnight. Then put it into the 
stewpan, and be careful to retain all 
the juices of the spices. Set on the 
fire and let it simmer ten minutes, 
adding the bay leaves, chopped very 
fine. Then add a tablespoonful of 
flouf, rolled smoothly in a half tea- 
spoonful of butter or, lard, melted. 
Let this brown, and then half cover 
the meat with boiling water, using 
good judgment. Cover closely and 
set on the oven, letting the beef 
cook two hours, and turning once, 
so that both sides may be well pene- 
trated by the heat. Serve on a hot 



dish, pouring the gravy over. This 
is a very old-fashioned dish. 

FrIeA SZeat, 

La Viande Prite. 

Frying among the Creoles Is done 
in several ways. The first and the 
method most generally adopted in 
households is t,o put a tablespoonful 
of lard or an ounce, as the quantity 
of meat to cook may seem to require, 
into a frying pan. "When the lard 
has reached the boiling point lay in 
the meat and cook first on one side 
then on the other to a nice brown. 
The second method is that in use 
among the Creole chefs, restaura- 
teurs, and in the homes of the 
wealthier classes; the meat is com- 
pletely immersed in the boiling lard 
as in trying fish or doughnuts. The 
intense heat quickly closes up the 
pores of the meat, and a brcn^n crust 
is formed; the heat of the lard 
should be such that a piece of bread 
dropped into it becomes brown in- 
stantly. The lard should never be 
smoking. This ruins the meat and 
gives a burnt fiavor. As soon as it 
begins to smoke remove the frying 
pan to the side of the stove, but still 
keep it at the boiling point. The 
half-frying method mentioned above 
is, however, the one most generally 
in use, and if followed properly ex- 
cellent results are obtained; indeed, 
many Creole chefs prefer it. There 
is another method that is very gene- 
rally used, and which'imparts a flavor 
similar to that of broiled meat. This 
is to lay the meat in a thick-bottomed 
frying pan with a tablespoonful of 
butter. Brown the meat quickly first 
on one side and then on the other; 
lay in a hot platter and season as you 
would broiled meat. 

In large families where there is a 
great deal of cooking required, the 
economical housewife will carefully 
save all the drippings and the fat 
remnants of beef, mutton and pork. 
She will occasionally get a pound or 
two of suet from the market. These 
drippings or skimmings may be clar- 
ified by boiling them in hot water 
about twice a week. When the fat 
is thoroughly melted, strain it with 
the water and set aside to cool. After 
a while the hard fat that has been 
formed on top of the water may be 
lifted out just as you would a cake 
of anything; then scrape off all the 
dark particles from the bottom and 
melt the fat over again. While it 
is still very hot strain it into _ a 
clean stone jar or tin pail and it "is 
ready for use in cooking. Refined 
cotton seed oil and butter oil are 
now being adopted by many profes- 
sional cooks and in households for 
culinary purposes. Olive oil has al- • 
ways been in use for this purpose 
among the Creoles, and is held as 
a very delicate medium for frying. 



But many prefer the beef fat or suet 
for frying, considering it both whole- 
some and digestible, and more deli- 
cate than olive oil or the fat of pork. 
But the careful housekeeper will al- 
ways preserve all odds and ends of 
fat of beef, mutton or pork, and the 
drippings after frying anything. Set 
this aside until the fat settles and 
cools, then pour oft carefully so as to 
clear from the sediment that always 
settles at the bottom and clarify as 
above. 

Fried Meat. 
Grillade. 

Our "Grillades, " or Pried Meat k 
la CrSole are famous, relishable and 
most digestible dishes, no matter 
what scientists may say about the 
non-advisability of eating fried meat. 
The many octogenarians who walk 
our streets, and who have been prac- 
tically raised on "Grillades," for it 
is a daily dish among the Creoles, 
are the best refutation of the outcry 
that is made in the North and West 
against fried meat. The great truth 
is that the Creoles know how to fry 
meat. The round of the meat is al- 
v.-ays" selected for Grillades, and one 
steak will serve six persons. The 
steak is cut into pieces of about six 
or eight squares and each piece is 
callea a "grillade." Season well with 
salt and pepper, rubbing these into 
the meat thoroughly and letting it 
soak well into the fibres. Have ready 
a hot pan, and place within a table- 
spoonful of lard, and, when hot, a 
sliced onion and one clove of garlic, 
cliopped very fine. Let this brown, 
and then add one chopped tomato. 
Place the Grillades in this, letting 
them soak thoroughly. Cover with a 
tight cover, and set back, letting 
them fry slowly, so as to absorb all 
the lard and juices. Serve on a hot 
dish, when brown, -with garnishes of 
parsley. This is the recipe for mak- 
ing Grillades without gravy. Some 
aUo fry simply in the boiling lard, 
using only a half tablespoonful, and 
letting it soak and absorb thorough- 
ly after being well seasoned. This 
is a m,-.tter of taste. 

Grillades are a favorite dish among 
the poorer classes of Creoles, espe- 
cially, being served not only for 
breakfast, but also at dinner, in the , 
latter instance with gravy and a dish 
of red beans and boiled rice. 

Grillades Witli Gravy. 

Grillades a. la Sauce. 

1 Rouua Steak. 

1 Tomato. 1 Large Onion. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Select a nice round steak and beat 
well. Cut into grillades of about 
four inches square and season highly 
with salt and pepper and Cayenne. 
Put a tablespoonful of lard into the 



79 



trying pan, and when it heats, add a 
chopped^ onion-; one' clave ol ga-rlio; 
and as these brown, add one table- 
spoonful of flour, making a Brown 
Roux. (See recipe under chapter 
"Sauces for Meats, Pish, etc.") Then 
add two tomatoes, sliced, with their 
juices, and as this browns lay the 
grillades upon it. Cover closely, and 
as, it browns on one side, turn on the 
other. Then add a half tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar and a cup of water. 
Stir well and set back on the stove 
and let it simmer slowly for about 
a half hour. This is very nice 
served with hominy at breakfast, or 
with red or white beans and boiled 
rice at dinner. 

Again, the Grillades k la Sauce 
are made by frying the grillades, 
after seasoning well, simply in half 
a tablespoonful of boiling lard. The 
lard must always be boiling, so that 
the meat juices may at once coagu- 
late. After they are browned nicely 
on both sides, take the grillades out 
of the frying pan and set in a hot, 
dish over a pot of boiling water and 
cover. Have an onion chopped fine, 
■ put half a tablespoonful of 
lard into the frying pan, stirring 
well to detach all particles of meat 
that may have adhered. Then add 
a chopped onion and brown, and a 
tablespoonful of flour or Glace (see 
recipe under chapter "Sauces for 
Meats, Pish, etc.") and let this brown. 
Pour in a tablespoonful of vinegar 
and a cup of water, season well with 
salt, pepper and Cayenne, and let it 
boil till it reaches a right consist- 
ency, which will be in about ten 
minutes. Pour over the grillades, 
and serve. 

Grillades Breaded. 

Grillades PanSes. 

1 Round of Veal. , 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
1 Beaten Egg. Vi Cup of Bread Crumbs. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne. 

The round of the veal is always 
used for this. Cut the veal into 
squares of about four inches; season 
well with salt, pepper and Cayenne. 
Beat an egg well and take each gril- 
lade and soak it well in the egg, and 
then roll in bread crumbs grated. 
Have ready a pan of boiling grease, 
sufficient for the grillades to swim 
in it; fry to a nice brown and serve 
very hot. 

Lieft-Over Meat, 

Left-over meat may be utilized in 
many delightful ways, such as "Bou- 
lettes,"' "Boulards," "Croquettes," 
"Rissoles," "iVEeat Soufllfi" and va- 
rious forms of Hash. The following 
are the forms of preparation in use 
among the Creoles: 



Meat Balls. 

Boulettes. 

1 Pound of Raw or Left-Over Meat. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Onion. 

Tlie Juice of a Lemon. 
Salt, Pepper and Caj-enne to Taste. 

Take one pound of steak from the 
upper round and mince and chop very 
fine. Add to it one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, one onion (well grated), 
one tablespoonful of melted butter, 
and mixed salt, black pepper and 
Cayenne, seasoning highly; mix all 
thoroughly. Porm the meat into 
balls, using about two tablespoon- 
fuls for each, which will allow six 
or eight balls or boulettes. Have 
ready a deep frying pan of lard, suf- 
ficient for the boulettes to swim and 
fry to a nice brown. Take out and 
drain of all grease, place on a hot 
platter and garnish with fried pars- 
ley, and serve very hot. 

The same directions may be used 
in making croquettes of meat, only 
the latter are formed into cylindrical 
shapes. If fried in butter, the bou- 
lettes or croquettes are very deli- 
cious, but they are nice either way if 
well seasoned, for tlieir success de- 
pends upon tills. 

Itleat Balls. 

Boulards. 

Seieral Slices of Meat (Raw or Cold Coolsed). 

1 Tomato. 1 Onion. i Carrot. 

3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

1 Stalli of Celery. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. * 

% Cup of Cracker Crumbs. A Pinch of Ginger. 

Ml Cup of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select slices of beef cut very thin 
from the round of the cross rib. Take 
one tomato, one onion, one carrot, a 
stalk of celery, several sprigs of par- 
sley, one bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
three hard-boiled eggs, and chop very 
fine. Mix this with one tablespoonful 
of butter, a half cup of cracker 
crumbs and a pinch of ginger. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Take each slice 
of meat, and make a roll of it, folding 
the dressing within and folding over 
the edges that it may be retained. 
Tie each with thin twine. Have boil- 
ing lard or suet on the Are, drop in 
the' boulards rolled in bread crumbs, 
set them back on the stove, cover 
well, and let them simmer gently for 
about two hours, adding a half cup 
of water to prevent scorching. Keep 
the pot covered. After two hours, 
drain the boulards well by laying 
them on heated brown paper; place 
them in a hot dish, garnish it with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs, parsley and 
olives, and serve. Bach boulard 
should be about the size of an, egg. 



80 



L,eft-Over Meat. 

Rissoles. 
i Ounces of Cold Hoast Beef or Veal, or 

Left-Over Meat of any Kind. 

2 Ounces of Stale Broad. Wet. and Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

^^ Teaspoonful of Minced Parsley. 

1^ Ounce of Flour. 

1V4 Tablespoonluls of Milk or Water. 

^ Teaspoonful Each of Salt and Black Pepper. 

A Dash or Cayenne. 

1 Bay Leaf, Chopped Fine, With Sprigs of 

Parsley and Thyme. 

Mince the meat finely ana season 
well. Mix the ingredients thoroughly 
with it, adding, if you have it, mince 1 
Chaurice or sausage meat, or a little 
cold ham minced. Form it into balls, 
using two tablespoonfuls for each 
ball. Brush lightly with milk, toss 
in a little flour, pat to get off all su- 
perfluous flour, and brown, nicely in 
boiling lard. Drain off all lard and 
serve on a platter, garnished with 
parsley sprigs. 

Meat Souillf. 

Souffle de Boeut. 

1 Cup of Cold Meat. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Batter. 

2 Tablespoonluls of Flour. 1 Cup of Cold Milk. 

2 £:ggs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put two level tablespoonfuls of 
butter into a frying pan, and when 
it is hot add two ta-b,lesp6onfuls of 
flour, rubbing smoothly and letting 
it brown. Then add gradually one 
cup of cold milk. Stir this until it 
boils. Add one-half teaspoonful of 
salt; a little pepper and one cupful 
of chopped meat, or fowl, that has 
been left over. When' this comes to 
a boil, add the yolk of two beaten 
eggs. Let it cook a moment longer 
and set to cool. Then beat the whites 
of the eggs and when the meat mix- 
ture is cold, fold them in carefully. 
Turn this into a buttered dish anl 
bake in a moderate oven twenty min- 
utes. Serve as soon as removed 
from the flre. A little grated nut- 
meg is a great addition. 

Beefsteak Pie. 

Vol-du-Vent de Boeuf. 

1 Quart of Cold Cooked Meat. 

2 Slices of Breakfast Bacon. 

1 Tablcspoonful of Butter. % Dozen Potatoes. 
Thyme, Bay Leaf and Parsley. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Make a nice pie crust. (See plain 
Paste.) Line a baking pan with this, 
and bake in the oven. Cut the meat 
very fine, into dice, and season well, 
rubbing with the minced thyme, par- 
sley, bay leaf, and salt and pepper. 
Stew the meat as in Ragout de Veau 
a, la Bourgeoise. Place in the pan. 
Dot the top with bits of butter, and 
place over all a layer of pie crust, 
decorating the edges nicelj-. Bake to 
a nice brown. Serve in the 



dish in which it was cooked, 
with any left-over sauce spread over 
the slices. 

Potted Beef. 

Terrine de Boeuf. 

2 Rounds of Beef. 

1 Slice of Suet (Gros de Boeuf). 

% Can Mushrooms. 

4 Yolks of Eggs. 1 Dozen Allspice. 4 Cloves. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne. 

1 Glass of Brandy. 

Chop the slices of beef very fine 

with the suet, and season with the 

mashed spices, the herbs, minced very 

fine, and mix thoroughly with the 

beaten yolks of the eggs. Pour over 

all the brandy and mix. Line the 

bottom of the baking pan with strips 

of lean bacon and dot of beef on top 

with bits of butter. Bake for two 

hours in a quick oven. 

HASH. 

Hachis. 

1 Quart of Cold Meat. 1 Onion. 

1 Pint of Chopped Potatoes (Uncooked). 

2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. Vt of a Clovi of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonf ul of Butter . oi Lard. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Take the remains, of cold roast, 
stew, bouilli, steaks or fowl, and 
mince very fine. To every quart of 
m.eat allow one onion, a quarter of 
a clove of garlic, chopped fine, and 
one pint of choppe3 (uncooked) pota- 
toes, and two hard-boiled eg':js, 
choped fine. Mix all this with the 
minced meat, add salt, pepper and 
Cayenne to taste; put into a stew 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter 
or lard, and let it simmer gently. 
After ten minutes add a half pint 
of hot water. Lut it cook ten min- 
utes longer and serve. The egg may 
be omitted. 

Dry OT Baked Hcsb. 

Hachis Sec. 

1 Pint of Chopped Meat, Left-Over. 

% Pint of Water, or Left-Over Broti 

1 Pint of Cooked Chopped Tomatoes. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Parsley. 

Chop and mince the meat very fine. 

Chop the potatoes fine, or in square 

inch pieces.. Mince the parsley, bay 

leaf, onion and garlic fine; mix all 

together with the meat and potatoes 

and season highly with pepper and. 

Cayenne, salting to taste. Add the 

tablespoonful of butter and bake in 

a moderate oven for about one hour. 

HasU en Toast. 

Hachis sur Canap§s. 
I Quart of Cold Meat. 
1 Pint of Boiling Water or Milk 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of ilour. 
Salt and Tspper to Taste. 

Cut the left-over roast, bouilli or- 



81 



steak into small squares. To each 
\ Dint of these little squares allow one 
\tablespoonful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of flour and a half pint of 
toiling water. Put the butter into 
a\frying pan, and as it melts add the 
flour, being careful not to let it burn. 
When browned add the water, or, 
preferably, milk, and stir until it 
begins to boil. Then add the hashed 
and seasoned meat, and season again 
to taste. Set the hash on a moderate 
fire and let it simmer for fifteen 
minutes. 

In the meantime, toast slices of 
bread and butter them. Set them in 
a hot dish, spread each slice with 
the hash very thickly and pour the 
sauce over and serve. The hash may 
be baked and spread on the toast ana 
served with ^ sauce k I'EspagnoIe. 
(See recipe.) 

Corn Beef. 

Boeut au Mi-Sel. 

3 Pounds of Corned Beef. 

2 Carrots. 2 Turnips. 1 Stalk of Celery. 

2 Onions. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

The best out for this is the lower 
round of the beef, which Is perfectly 
free from bone. Put the corn beef on 
to boil in a large pot of cold water. 
The pot should be well covered. When 
it begins boiling well, set it back 
to cook gently, and allow twenty- 
five minutes to each pound of beef. 
When within two hours of being 
cooked, add two carrots, two tur- 
nips, a stalk of celery, two onions, 
one clove of garlic, chopped fine, and 
let these boil with the beef. Serve 
with the vegetables ranged whole 
around the dish. Corn beef is also 
served with cabbage, but never boil 
the cabbage in the beef as both w^ill 
become indigestible. It should be 
as tender as a spring chicken when 
done. 

Corn Beef Hash. 

Ha^jhis de Boeuf au Mi-Sel. 

1 Pint of Corn Beet. Cooked, and 1 Pint of 

Left-Over Potatoes. 

1 Grated Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1" Cup of Broth or Water. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Mix the meat thoroughly after min- 
cing fine together with the chopped 
potatoes. Grate the onion and a 
half clove of garlic if desired, and 
chop the herbs fine and mix thor- 
oughly with the beef, seasoning high- 
ly. Put the butter into the frying 
pan, add the meat and the broth or 
■water ,and stir constantly till it 
toils. Spread, after it has cooked 
for about twenty minutes on slices 
of buttered toast. Pour over the 
gravy and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley and sliced lemon. 



Breaded On. Tail.-*. 

Queues de Boeuf PanScs. 

■ 2 Ox Tails. 
1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 
3 Sprigs of Chopped Parsley. 
3 Sprigs of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 1 Ess. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Tasto. 
Wash the tails and out them at 
the Joints; then cut again, into Uvo 
pieces of about four inches in length. 
Have a pot of boiling' water; season 
this well v/ith chopped parsley, 
thyme, bay leaf, and salt and pepper 
and Cayenne to taste. Boil the ox 
tails til tender; when done, remove 
from the fire and let them cool in 
the water in which they were boiled. 
Beat an egg well, roll tlie bits of 
tail in the egg, and then roll in 
grated bread crumbs. Drop into a 
pot of boiling grease and fry to a 
golden brown. Take out and drain 
and serve with a Sauce a. la Tartare, 
Ravigotte, Tomato, or any sauce. 
(See recipe.) 

Ox Tails & la Bonrgeolse. 

Queue de- Boeuf a. la Bourgeoise. 

2 Ox Tails. 

2 Onions. 2 Carrots. 1 Turnip. 

% Can of Green Peas. 

^4 Inch of Ham. -1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Sprisa of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

] Pint of Consomme or Boiling Water, ' 

1 Glass of Sherry Wine or Water. 

Cut tlie ox tails into pieces of 
three or four inches in length. Chop- 
two onions fine, and put the whole- 
into a saucepan with a tablespoonful 
tif butter. Let them brown a little- 
an'd add two large carrots, cut intO' 
dice, and one turnip cut the same- 
way. Brown these with the ox tails. 
Add one-half inch of ham, well 
chopped and let it brown, and then 
add two sprigs of thyme and one 
bay leaf and one clove of garlic, 
chopped very fine. Let these ingred- 
ients all brown about two minutes 
over a hot fire. Then add one glass 
of Sherry wine or water. Let all 
brown t"wo minutes longer, and add 
one pint of consommS or boiling wa- 
ter. Season again to taste, and add 
a half can of green peas. Let all 
boil until the ox tails are tender to 
the touch, and serve hot. 

Broiled KidiEcys. 

Brochettes de Rognons. 

3 Kidneys. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Lemon Juice. Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The kidneys must, first of all, be 
perfectly fresh. Wash them well 
and slice them; cut into thin pieces 
of about three inches long and two 
inches wide. Run a wooden or sil- 
ver skewer through to hold them to- 



82 



gether, and season well with salt 
and pepper. Brush with a little but- 
ter, and put on a double broiler and 
broil for about five minutes, turning 
over the broiler to alow each side 
to cook. Place on a platter and pour 
over melted butter and chopped par- 
sley and lemon juice, and serve hot, 
as you would broiled steak. 

SteTved Kidneys. 

( Rognons Sautfis a. la Crgole. 

i 3 Kidneys. 1 Cup of Water. 

% Spoon of Butter. 
l_^ % Glass of White Wine. 

1 Teaspoonful of Slierry Wine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Sprig Each of Chopped Parsley, Thyme and 

Bay Leaf, Very Fine. 

Select perfectly fresh kidneys; 
wash them well, and then slice very 
thin. Season well with salt and pep- 
per. Put one and a half tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into the saucepan; 
when melted and very hot, add the 
kidneys and chopped herbs, being 
very careful to stir constantly and 
very fast, to prevent burning. Add 
a half glass of White Wine, if pos- 
sible, and one cup of water or con- 
sommfi. Let it boil up once, and 
the kidneys are ready to be served. 
Kidneys are like eggs — they do not 
require long to cook, and the more 
they are cooked the harder they be- 
come. Five minutes should be suf- 
ficient to cook them well, and at 
no time should they be allowed fo 
boil. By adding champagne, instead 
of white wine, you will have Rognons 
Saute au Champagne. 

Broiled Liver. 

Brochettes de Foie. 
1 Pound of Beef's Liver. 
Tablespoonful of Melted Butter, 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Chopned Parsley to Garnish. 
Wash and slice the liver into thin 
pieces of about three inches in length 
and one-quarter inch in thickness. 
Run a skewer through to prevent 
from curling up. Season well with 
salt and pepper, brush lightly with 
butter, and place on a double broiler, 
stringing on the skewer ',/ith alter- 
nate slices of bacon. Broil as you 
would a tenderloin steak for about 
five minutes, and serve with a sauce 
of melted butter and chopped par- 
sley poured over. 

Fried Liver a la Lyonalse. 

Foie Sautfies a. la Lyonnaise. 

1 Pound of LlTer of the Beef. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Large Onions. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Slice the onions nicely. Put one 
tablespoonful of butter into the frying 
pan and add the onions. When brown, 
take the liver which you have cut into 
slices of about three inches in length 



and one half inch in thickness, and 
season well with salt and pepper, 
and lay it over the onions. Stir 
well. Cover and let it fry for about 
three minutes, and then turn over 
and let it cook three minutes more. 
Pour a teaspoonful of vinegar on top 
and again season to taste. Let it 
simmer three or four minutes long- 
er and serve hot. Liver does not re- 
quire long to cook. 

Jellied Tongue. 

Langue de Boeuf en Gen^e. 

1 Beef Tongue. 2 Calf's Feet. 

4 Pints of Strong Consomme. 

1 Glass of Sherry Wine. 

Spices. 

Parboil the tongue and two calf's 

feet. Then take out of tile hot water 

and skin and clean the tongue well, 

and take the bones out of the calf's 

feet. Mince t"wo onions very fine, 

and fry them in a tablespoonful of 

butter. Let them brown, and lay on 

these the well-seasoned tongue and 

calf's feet. Let them simmer ten 

minutes, and then add one pint of 

consommfi, and Ave minutes after, 

one glass of white wine. Let these 

smother, keeping well covered, for 

an hour and a half. Then take the 

tongue out, and let the calf's feet 

cook and reduce a half hour longer. 

After this add the tongue for two 

minutes longer. Put all into a bowl 

or dish, and let it cool. You will 

have a delicious jelly. 

Smothered Tongne. 

Langue de Boeuf BraisSe. 

1 Fresh Tongue of Beei. 

1 Pint of Liquor in Which the Tongue Was 

Boiled. 

2 Onions, Minced Very Fine. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 2 Cloves. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Glass of White Wine (if Desired). 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parboil the tongue for about ten 
minutes. Then skin and clean 'well. 
Chop an onion very fine, and brown 
this in a tablespoonful of butter. 
When brown, add the tongue, which 
you will have arranged by fastening 
the thick part to . the tip with a 
skewer, as for roast beef. Let it 
cook, smothering slowly, for fifteen 
minutes, and then add another onion 
sliced nicely. Let this brown, and 
add one square inch of ham, well 
chopped, two carrots sliced, and a 
bay leaf, and two sprigs of thyme, 
minced fine. Brown again, and add 
a pint of broth. Season well, and 
add a glass of white wine, and then 
let it smother for one hour and a 
half longer, turning every quarter, 
so that every part may cook thor- 
oughly. Serve with the sauce in 
which it was cooked, or with a Sauce 
Piquante. (See recipe.) 



CHAPTER XIII. 



VEAL. 



Du Veau. 



The loin, filet, shoulder and breast 
ot the veal are used for roasting. 
Chops are cut from the loin, and the 
leg is used for filets and cutlets. The 
filet of veal is quite different from 
the filet of beef, and does not, in 
any manner, correspond to the lat- 
ter, being a solid piece cut from the 
leg-s of the young calf. The knuckle 
is the lower part of the leg after 
the cutlets are taken off, and, with 
the neck, is used extensively for 
making stews, soups and veal pies. 
Indeed, as far as stews are concerned, 
the Creoles never make a "beef stew" 
or very rarely, the meat of beef be- 
ing considered too tough. Never buy 
veal that is very young, for young 
meats, as a rule, are not nutritious; 
but properly cooked, as the Creoles 
know how, they need never be un- 
wholesome or indigestible. A calf 
should never be killed until It is at 
least two months old, and then the 
meat has a pinkish tinge, and is 
firm and the bones are hard. Calf 
that has been killed too young may 
be known by the bluish tinge and. 
the soft, flabby flesh, and small, ten- 
der bones. 

The Creole cooks always pound the 
veal almost to a pulp. This renders 
it very tender and digestible. Veal 
must alw^ays be w^ell cooked, and 
cooked very slowly, else it will be 
hard, tough and unfit for food. 

Veal furnishes an almost endless 
variety of delightful dishes. The fol- 
lowing are those most important in 
use in Creole homes: 

Roast Loin of Veal. 

Longe de Veau Rotie. 

4 Pounds of Veal. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Lard. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Sprigs of Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Gar- 
nish. 

Trim and cut the veal nicely of 
the heavier portion of the fat, leav- 
ing enough, however, to render it 
sweet and juicy. If freshly cut, and 
not handled too much by the butcher, 
merely wipe the loin with a damp 
towel. Then dredge it thickly with 
salt and pepper, and separate the ar- 
ticulations or joints, that the meat 
may cook thoroughly. Rub well 
with a tablespoonful of butter or 
lard, and place in a very quick oven 
for about fifteen minutes. Then 



raise the damper of the stove and 
cover the veal with a piece of brown 
buttered paper and let it cook slow- 
ly, allowing at least twemty minutes 
to each pound of veal. Keep the 
oven at a steady, regular heat. About 
twenty minutes before serving take 
off the buttered paper and let the 
roast brown nicely, augmenting the 
fire a little. Take out, place on a 
hot dish, garnish nicely with sprigs 
of parsley and sliced lemon. Serve 
with its own gravy. The practice of 
making a gravy with fiour for roast 
beef and rest veal cannot be too se- 
verely condemned. Meat is always 
best when served in its own juice, if 
roasted or broiled. 

Roast Veal With Pine Herbs. 

Carr§ de Veau Roti aux Fines Heroes. 

A 4-Pound Filet of Veal. 

1 Cup of Broth or Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Onion. 3 Bay Leaves. 

2 Sprigs of Sweet Marjoram. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

^ Teaspoonful Each of Oround Cloves, Mace 

and Allspice. 

Have the butcher cut the filet of 
veal square, wipe with a damp towel 
and then take one tablespoonful of 
lard and dredge the roast nicely. 
Season well with salt and Cayenne; 
mince tlie onion, bay leaf, marjoram, 
parsley and thyme, and mix vhese 
with the ground spices; add the juice 
of a lemon, and pour all over the 
meat. Place in a quick oven for 
about fifteen minutes. After this, 
lessen the heat, place on top of the 
veal a buttered piece of brown pa- 
per, and let it roast slowly, allowing 
twenty minutes for each pound of 
veal. When almost done, take off 
the paper and let the roast brown 
nicely for twenty minutes longer. 
Then take the roast out of the gravy 
and place in a hot dish in the oven. 
Take the gravy, stir well, mixing 
all the herbs that have run out of 
the beef. Add one cup of b'roth or 
water and the juice of one lemon, 
and mix this thoroughly. Grate 
some bread crumbs, beat well in one 
egg, and pour this over the veal, let 
it brown nicely and serve with the 
sauce. 



84 



Filet of Veal With Mushrooms or 
TraMeH. 

Filet de Veau aux Champignons ou 
aux Truffes. 

1 Filet ot Veal. 

H Can of Mushrooms or Truffles. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Cloves (It desired). 

1% Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Glace (see recipe). 

1 Glass of Sherry or Madeira Wine (or water). 

Salt and Pepper to Taste, 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Filet of Beef Larded, with 
Mushrooms or Truffles, only do not 
lard the veal. Allow the veal to 
cook much longer, for it must be 
well done, twenty minutes to ths 
pound being a good guide always in 
roasting veal. (See recipe for Filet 
of Beef Larded, with Mushrooms or 
Truffles.) 

Stuffed Roast Shoulder or Breast of 
Veal. 

Epaule ou Poitrine de Veau Parcie. 
1 Shoulder of Veal. ^4 Pound of Ham. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 
1 Hard-Bolled Egg. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Spoon of Flour. 
(If the shoulder of the veal is used, have 
the butcher remove the bone.) 

When reaily to cook, wipe ■well 
with a damp towel, and then dredge 
with salt and pepper, seasoning high- 
ly. Make a dressing by taking one 
cup of stale bread, wet and squeezed, 
one-quarter pound of sliced ham, 
or salt pork, preferably the ham, 
and chop very fine. Mix this with 
the bread and season highly with hot 
pepper, according to taste; 1 carrot, 
1 onion, 1 bay leaf, 1 hard-boiled 
egg, 1 sprig of thyme, 1 ot parsley, 
all minced very fine. Add one table- 
spoonful of butter, and place in a 
frying pan; let it fry for about ten 
minutes and then add, it you ha.ve 
it, a quarter ot a glass ot white wine, 
or two tablespoonfuls, and two ta- 
blespoonfuls of beef broth; stir well 
and cook for five minutes longer. 
Then stuff the shoulder well and 
skewer the filet to prevent the dress- 
ing from falling out in cooking. It 
is well to tie the veal at either end 
with a piece of twine. Take one ta- 
blespoonful of lard and dredge 
roast according to preceding recipes. 

If the breast of the veal is used, 
make long gashes between the ribs 
and fill with a dressing prepared as 
above, place in the baking pan and 
roast slowly, according to directions. 
When finished cooking, remove the 
shoulder or breast, and stir the gravy 
well, adding a cup of broth or v/a- 
ter and the Juice of one lemon and a 
teaspoonful of butter, seasoning to 
taste. Serve with the roast. Some 
like the addition of a teaspoonful 
of prepared mustard, but that is a 
matter of taste. 



Venl Cutlets Breaded. 

Cotelettes de Veau PanSes. 

6 Veal Cutlets. 

1 Egg. 1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Lemon and Parsley to Garnish. 

Sauce a la Alaltre d'Hotel. 

Have the cutlets cut thin. Season 
well with salt and pepper. Beat an 
egg well and roll the cutlets in the 
egg, then roll in bread crumbs. Drop 
in boiling lard and try to a nice 
golden brown. Take out, drain off 
tlie lard, place on a heated dish 
and serve with garnish of parsley 
and sliced lemon and a Sauce k la 
Maitre ; d'Hotel. (See recipe.) The 
addition ot a little lemon Juice adds 
to the fiavor when eating the cutlets. 

Veal Cutlets Breaded asd Broiled. 

Cotelettes de Veau Panfies et Grll- 

16es. 

6 Veal Cutlets. 1 Egg. 

1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

Parsley. Sprigs. 

llelted Butter or Sauce a la Ravigotte. 

Have the cutlets as thin as pos- 
sible. Season well, after having beat 
with the rolling-pin, and roll in a 
well-beaten egg and then In bread 
crumbs. Pat lightly with the hands 
and brush with melted butter. Place 
on a double broiler and broil on a 
very slow fire till no blood exudes. 
Serve with drawn butter sauce 
poured over or a Sauce 9. la Ravi- 
gotte. (See recipe.) Garnish the 
dish nicely with parsley sprigs. 

Cutlets of Veal it la Milanaise. 

Cotelettes de Veau k la Milanaise. 

6 Veal Cutlets. 1 Egg. 

1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

A Bed of Macaroni or Spaghetti. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Prepare as above, and serve the 

cutlets on a bed ot boiled macaroni 

or spaghetti, and pour over the 

whole a Tomato Sauce. 

Veal Cutlets en Fapillotes, 

Cotelettes de Veau en Papillotes. 

6 Veal Cutlets. 

A Half Pound of Pork Sausage Meat. 

% Can Muslrooms. 1 Tablespoonful Butter, 

1 Clove Garlic. 
' Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Use for this young and tender 
veal cutlets, cut very thin. Fry the 
chops, after seasoning well in but- 
ter, very slowly, and, when cooked, 
take out ot the frying pan and put 
in a dish. Take a- tablespoonful ot 
butter and put in a trying pan. Add 
a half pound ot sausage meat and a 
halt can of mushrooms, chopped very 
fine. Mix well, and season with salt 
and pepper. Add a minced clove ot 
garlic, and let it all cook five min- 
utes. Take pieces ot white fools- 



85 



cap paper and cut in cone or pyra- 
midal shapes of the size of the out- 
lets. Fold the edges over the other 
very nicely, doubling the paper to 
form the half diamond or cone. Then 
oil the paper well with sweet oil. 
Take the stufHng of sausage meat 
and put a layer on one side of the 
fold of each cone. Lay the chop 
diagonally across this, so that the 
end reaches the tip of the cone, and 
spread over this another layer of 
the stuffing. Fold the paper over 
neatly around the edges, and -then 
- oil well again on the outside. Bake 
in an oven or lay on top of a grid- 
iron and broil until brown. This 
will be in about five minutes. They 
will need no gravy, the oil having 
slightly permeated, and the chops 
being kept delicate and juicy by the 
dressing. Serve hot in the papers 
or papillotes, the guests removing 
them at the table. This is a very 
dainty way of serving veal cutlets, 
and the only way of serving them 
in papillotes. 

Veal Cutlets Smothered & la CrSole. 

■ Cotelettes de Veau :6toufCfies ou 
Brais6es &. la Creole. 
6 Veal Cutlets. ' 
6 Onions, Sliced Fine. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 
Pepper and Salt to Taste. 
Cut off the outer skin of the cut- 
lets, and season well with salt and 
pepper. Dredge with flour. Place 
the tablespoonful of lard in 
a deep frying pan and let it melt. 
Then lacy in the sliced onions, and 
over' these lay the cutlets. Cover 
closely. Let them simmer over a 
hot fire for a few minutes and then 
turn the cutlets on the other side. 
After three minutes, add two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, chopped par- 
sley, thyme and bay leaf and a clove 
of garlic. Turn the veal, letting the 
flour brown well, and keep the pot 
closely covered. When brown, pour 
over one cup of water, or a, pint, 
which will be sufllcient to covep the 
meat. Bring this to a brisk boil 
and set the pot back, where it can 
simmer gently for about two hours. 
Serve with a nice garnish of parsley 
or radishes. 

Veal Daube a la Crgole. 

Daube Froide a la Creole. 

4 Pounds of Veal Rump. 

2 Pig's Feet. Vi Pound of Salt Fat Meat. 

5 Large Onions. 2 Turnips. 

5 Carrots. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 3 Bay Leaves. 

1 Tatlespoonful of Lard. 

1 Glass of Slierry. 

3 Sprigs of Tliyme and Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Cut the salt meat into shreds, roll 

-well in Cayenne and black pepper. 

■Chop finely several sprigs of thyme 



and three bay leaves, one Clove of 
garlic, three sprigs of parsley, and 
mash well three cloves and six all- 
spice. Roll the strips of salt meat, 
which must be about three inches 
in length and one-half inch thick, 
. in this. Make incisions into the 
rump of meat and force in the strips 
of fat meat and the spices. Then 
rub the whole well with salt 
and pepper, judging according to 
taste, and proceed to cook according 
to the recipe for Beef a. la Mode. 
(See, recipe Beef S,' la Mode.) Let 
the daube cook about four hours 
when you intend to serve it cold. 

In the meantime, in another pot, 
place a veal steak of about two 
pounds and two pigs' feet. Season 
well with salt and pepper and Ca- 
yenne, and cover well with four 
quarts of water, and let them boil. 
Add one bay leaf, one sprig of thyme, 
one-half clove of garlic and one on- 
ion, all minced very fine, and two 
cloves mashed into almost a jelly, 
and one glass of Sherry or Madeira 
"Wine. Let these boil well with the 
veal and pigs' feet. Then, when the 
veal and pigs' feet are cooked very 
tender, take them out of the pot and 
minc'e the meat of each very fine; 

■ return to the sauce, and again sea- 
son highly, according to taste, for 
the flavor depends upon the piquant 

■ seasoning. After the daube has 
' cooked four or five hours, take off 

the stove and pour over the sauce 
and set all in a cool place. Serve 
the next day — cold, cutting into thin 
slices. It will all have formed a 
jelly that is most delicious and ap- 
petizing; .. , J 

If the flank is used, have it boned 
by the butcher, removing the lit- 
tle flat bones and all the gristle. 
In this case, trim it evenly and make 
a forcemeat of sausage, 1 cup, grated - 
flne; bread crumbs, 1 cup, wet and 
squeezed; 1 clove of garlic or 1 
grated onion, all minced very fine; 
1 hard-boiled egg, 1 sprig of i:hyme 
and bay leaf, minced flne. Mix all 
thoroughly with the sausage meat 
and the bread; fry in a tablespoonful 
of butter for about five minutes; add 
a tablespoonful of Sherry, stir well; 
stuff the flank of veal, and then pro- 
ceed in exactly the same manner as 
above indicated. 

Fricanileau of Veal. 

Fricandeau de VeaUi 

A Rump of Veal of Two Pounds Weight. 

1 Pint of Broth. 

2 Onions. 2 Carrots. 

% Dozen Slices ot Bacon. 

% "Can ot Green Peas or Mushrooms. 
Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf. 

For this take one whole piece of 
the rump of the veal, cut about two 
inches in thickness, and about the 
size of a large saucepan or frying 
pan in length and width. Lard the 



beef well with larding needles, and 
rub well with salt and pepper. Then 
slice two onions, two carrots, two 
sprigs of thyme and two bay leaves, 
and a half dozen slices of thinly- 
sliced fat bacon, two inches long and 
about the thickness of a dollar. 
Place the bacon in strips in the bot- 
tom of the saucepan, and lay over 
this a layer of the sliced carrots 
and onions. Put about a dozen lit- 
tle dots of lard over this at intervals, 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Lay the veal on top of this, and then 
cover up with a layer of the sliced 
onions and carrots, and lay strips 
of bacon on top. Cut a piece of pa- 
per the size of the saucepan, and 
cover it up. Place in a good oven, 
and let it bake three-quarters of an 
hour longer, slowly. Watch care- 
fully. When done, take out the meat 
and place it in a dish. Take the 
sauce and add, if possible, one-half 
glass of white wine, and let it boil 
with the vegetables a moment. Then 
add one pint of broth or water, and 
let it cook well. Strain after it boils 
fifteen minutes. It will have become 
a very fine gravy. Add, if desired. 
a half can of mushrooms, or a half 
can of green peas, and let it boil for 
ten minutes longer. Then add the 
Pricandeau of Veal and let it warm 
well for about ten minutes and it 
is ready for the table. This is a 
most excellent family dish. 

Stewed Veal. 

Ragout de Veau a. la Bourgeoise. 

3 Pounds of Brisket of Veal. 2 Large Onions. 

2 Carrots. 2 Pints of Boiling Water. 

% Can of Tomatoes. 1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Eacli of Thyme and Sweet Marjoram. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

The brisket of the veal or the neck 
is best for stews, preferably the 
brisket. Cut it into pieces of about 
1 1-2 inches square, put a tablespoon- 
ful of lard in the stew pot, and when 
hot throw in the veal, which has 
been well seasoned with salt and 
black pepper. Let it brown, and 
then add the onions and carrots, 
which have been chopped fine, 
and one clove of garlic, minced 
very fine. Let this brown, and 
then add one vablespoonful of 
flour, Silted well, and let this brown 
nicely; add two pints of boiling wa- 
ter and 1 can of tomatoes, and a 
bay leaf, chopped very fine, and salt 
and pepper again to taste, adding, 
if desired, a dash of Cayenne. Many 
of the Creoles add a teaspoo'nful of 
vinegar. Set the stew back on the 
stove and cover closely. Let it sim- 
mer slowly for an hour and a half, 
or until the meat Is perfectly tender. 
Then serye hot. 



Sten-ed Veal With Fotatoea. 

Ragout de Veau aux Pommes de 

Terre. 

1 Brislcet or Knnclsle of Veal. 

2 Small Potatoes. 2 Large Onions. 

2 Carrots. 1 Tablespoonful of Floor. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Eacli of Thyme, Paralcy and Sweel 

Marjoram, 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in the same manner as for 
RagoQt de Veau a. la Bourgeoise. 
Just before adding the water, add 
the potatoes, which have been peeled 
and out into quarters or halves, ac- 
cording to size. Add the boiling wa- 
ter after they are in the stew about 
ten minutes, and set back, allowing 
it to simmer for an hour and a half, 
or until very tender. 

Stevred Veal With Mnshrooms. 

Ragoflt de Veaux aux Champignons. 

3 Pounds of Brisket of Veal. 2 Large Onions. 

2 Carrots. 2 Pints of Boiling Water, 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful Flou.r 

1 Tablespffonful' of Lard. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Eacli of Thyme and Sweet Marjoram. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Cut the veal into pieces of about 

1 1-2 inches square. 

The brisket of the veal or the neck 
is best for stews, preferably tlie 
brisket. Cut it into pieces of about 
1 1-2 inches square, put a tablespoon- 
ful of lard "in the stewpot, ami, 
when hot, throw in the veal, whioli 
has been well seasoned with salt and 
black pepper. Let it brown, and then 
add the onions and carrots, whicli 
have been chopped fine, and 1 clove 
of garlic, minced very fine. Let this 
brown, and then add 1 tablespoonful 
of fiour, sifted well, and let this 
brown nicely; add 2 pints of boiling 
water and 1 can of mushrooms whole, 
and a bay leaf, chopped very fine, 
and salt and pepper again to taste, 
adding, if desired, a dash of Cayenne. 
Set the stew back on the stove and 
cover closely. Let it simmer slowly 
for an hour and a half, or until the 
meat is perfectly tender. Then serve 
hot. This is a very delightful dish. 

Cream of Veal, 

CrSme de Veau. 

3 Cups of Chopped Veal. 

1 Cup of Chopped Ham. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
% Cup of Cream Sauce. 

Utilize in this the left-over filet 
of veal. Chop very fine and add one 
cup of minced ham. Prepare a 
Cream Sauce (see recipe under 
"Sauces for Meats, Pish, etc.") i" 
the proportions to make just a halt 
cup. Season the chopped veal with 
this, add a dash of Cayenne and 
grated nutmeg, spread upon hot but- 



87 



tered toast, aini serve at breakfast. 
Chicken and mutton may be pre- 
pared in the same -way. 

Veal en Ratatoullle. 

Ratatouille de Veau k la Creole. 

i Pounds of Brisket of Veal. % Pouad of Ham 

2 Cloves of Gallic. 

% Can of Tomatoes, or 6 Fresb. 

4 Dozen Fresh Okra. 2 Large Onions. 

2 Sweet Potatoes. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne. 

Cut the veal into pieces of about 
three inches in length and two in 
width. Cut the ham into dice shape, 
and the sweet potatoes, after peeling, 
into cubes of about one and a half 
inches. Add a half sweet pepper 
pod, if possible, being careful to ex- 
tract all the seeds. Season the veal 
highly. Put a tablespoonful of lard 
into the stew pot (butter is nicer, 
if it can be afforded), add the veal 
and let it brown nicely; then add 
the ham, the sweet potatoes and the 
pepper pod, and let them simmer 
gently for about fifteen minutes. 
In the meantime, prepare the fol- 
lowing sauce: Place a tablespoonful 
of butter into a saucepan, and when 
it melts add the chopped onion, and 
as they brown nicely, the minced 
herbs and garlic, and then the to- 
matoes sliced and chopped, in their 
own liquor. Let this stew for about 
fifteen minutes, and then add this 
to the stewing veal; mix thoroughly 
and set back on the stove, covering 
tightly, and let it simmer slowly and 
constantly, with a regular fire,, for 
about two hours. Then add the ok- 
ras, which have been tipped and 
sliced very thinly; let the mixture 
simmer for a half hour longer, and 
serve. This is an excellent family 
dish. 

Veal Patties or Veal Loaf. 

Pate de Veau ou Pain de Veau. 

3 Pounds of Veal Cutlets. 

3 Yolks of Eggs, beaten light. a Crackers. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Chopped Parsley, Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

1 Pound of Lean Ham. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Stew the veal, and then powder the 
crackers very fine. Mince the cutlets, 
the herbs and the ham very fine. 
Season well with salt and pepper, 
and mix with the bread crumbs and 
beaten eggs. Add a clove of garlic 
to the taste, if desired; add juice of 1 
lemon. With the whole form nice 
litte oaves of pie, shape, smooth over 
the top with butter, brush with egg, 
beaten well, sprinkle with crumbs, 
and bake in a' moderate oven, placing 
a buttered paper over the pat6s. The 
loaf may be formed whole and cut in 
thin slices and serve cold. 



Blanquette of Veal. 

Blanquette de Veau. 

3 Pounds of Veal Brisket. 
2 Onions. 1 Carrot. % Can of Mushrooms, 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Yolks of 2 Eggs. Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Va Gallon of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
This is a very cheap and excellent 
dish and may be made with left-over 
meat. But the brisket is never ex- 
pensive, and one may as well have it 
with the fresh meat. Take a brisket 
of veal and cut into pieces of two 
square inches. Put in a stew pot 
and cover with a half gallon of wa- 
ter, and add salt and pepper and two 
onions and 'one carrot, chopped fine. 
Let it boil till very tender. When 
it reaches this stage, take the meat 
out of the saucepan, and keep tlie 
water in which it was boiled.' Take 
another saucepan and put a table- 
spoonful of butter in it, and as it 
melts add a tablespoonful of flour. 
Mix well, continuing to dissolve till 
it becomes a smooth cream; do not 
let it brown. Add one pint of the 
water in which the veal was boiled. 
Stir well, making it very light, and 
not thick. Add' one-half can of mush- 
rooms, and let the whole boil about 
fifteen minutes, so as- to be very- 
light. Then put in the veal, which 
is already cooked. Let it simmer for 
about fifteen minutes longer, and 
take off the fire and add the yolks 
of two eggs, well beaten, with two 
tablespoonfuls of the gravy and the 
juice of one lemon. Serve hot. This 
is the true CrSole Blanquette de 
Veau, and it is a dish within the 
reach of all. 

Jellied Veal. 

Noix de Veau 8. la Gel6e. 

The Filet or Part of Lower Shoulder Blade 

of Veal. 

6 Peppercorns. 

2 Calves' Feet. 1 Blade of Mace. 

2 Large Onions. 2 Carrots. 

1 Gill of French Vinegar. 

1 Dozen Cloves Mashed Fine. 

-1 Allspice Mashed Fine. 

3 Quarts of Beef Broth. 

Cut the veal into fine pieces, sea- 
son well, and put it in a kettle with 
the calves' feet, and season highly 
with pepper, Cayenne and salt to 
taste. Add three quarts of beef 
broth, or "pot-au-feu." Add the 
minced vegetables, herbs and the 
peppercorns, and let it boil gently 
until it forms a jelly, which will be 
'in about two and a half hours. Then 
take out the veal and calves' feet, 
and carefuly remove all the bones, 
if any, and place in a mold. Let 
the liquor in which it was boiled boil 
until it is reduced to about a quart, 
adding, in the meantime, the good 
vinegar. When reduced, pour over 



88 



the meat and set it in a cold place 
over night. When cold, turn out of 
the mold and garnish nicely with 
sliced lemon and parsley sprigs and 
serve in slices. 



Veal AVith Olives. 

Veau aux Olives. 

A Flank of Veal. 

1 Slice of Cold Boiled Ham. 

1 Grated Onion. 1 Hard-Boiled Egg. 

1 Lemon. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Dozen Stoned Olives. 

This is a very old-fashioned Creole 
dish. Get a flank of veal and cut it 
into strips of about four inches in 
length and four in Vi'idth. Cut off 
sufficient to make a half cup, and 
chop this fine, with a slice of cold 
boiled ham. Make a mince meat, 
adding chopped herbs, according to 
taste, 1 grated onion, 1 hard- boiled 
egg, the juice of 1 lemon and a ta- 
blespoonful of butter, with a. half cup 
of bread crumbs. Take the strips of 
veal, stuff them nicely with this mix- 
ture and roll over the ends, tying 
to prevent the farcie from escaping. 
Place a tablespoonful of butter in a 
frying pan, and, when it heats, add 
the rolls, of veal. Let them fry for 
ten minutes, turning, and then add 
soup broth sufflcient to cover them. 
Cover ci.isely and set back on the 
stove, and let them simmer steadily 
but slowly for an hour longer; then 
place in a hot dish, pour the gravy 
over, seasoning highly; add about 
two dozen stoned olives, and pour 
over the rolls and serve. 

Veal Pot Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent de Veau. 

A Veal Brisket. 

2 Slices of Breakfast Bacon or Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. % Dozen Potatoes. 

Thyme, Bay Leaf and Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

This is a famous dish among the 
Creoles with large families. For a 
family of six, get a veal brisket, and 
allow three parts of minced veal to 
one of ham. 

Make a nice pie crust. (See Plain 
Paste.) Line a baking pan with this, 
and bake in the oven. Cut the meat 
very fine, into, dice, and season high- 
ly, rubbing with the minced thyme, 
parsley, bay leaf, and salt and pep- 
per and Cayenne. Stew the meat as 
in RagoQt de Veau a. la Bourgeoise. 
Place in the pan. Dot the top with 
bits of butter, and place over all a 
layer of pie crust, decorating the 
edges nicely. Bake to a nice brown. 
Serve in the dish in which it was 

nnnlrftr? ^rifVn qt.-.. i .^** 



Veal Croquettes, 

Croquettes de Veau. 

3-4 ot a Pound of Cold (Cooled) Veal. 
1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4' Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1. Onion. 1 Cup of Milk. 

1 TeaspoonMl ot Salt. 
Cayenne and Pepper to Taste. 

This is an excellent way of utiliz- 
ing left-over veal. Hemove all the 
tough fibers and nerves. Hash the 
veal w(;ll and season with the minced 
vegetables and sweet herbs, mixing 
all thoroughly. Then take a cup 
of the soft of the bread, wet it and 
squeeze, and soak in milk, in which 
yoil have beaten two eggs. Mix all 
this with the meat very thoroughly 
and season to taste. When well 
mixed, form the meat into cylindrical 
shapes and brush with a little but- 
ter. Then roll in a beaten egg and 
roll again in powdered bread crumbs. 
Pry in boiling lard and serve hot on 
a plate garnished with fried parsley. 

If made very carefully, it will be 
very difficult for anyone to discern 
the difference between a Chicken 
Croquette and a Veal Croquette. 

Calf's Head a la Poulette. 

Tete de Veau a, la Poulettei 

1 Gait's Head. Tolk of 1 Egg. 

1 Lemon. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

Sauce a la Poulette. 

Clean and prepare the calf's head 
as in the recipe given for "Calf's 
Head Soup." (See recipe.) Then 
boil it according to recipe. Cut one 
lemon fine and add to the boiling 
calf head, which, it must be remem- 
bered, is boiled simply in water, and 
salt and pepper. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of good vinegar and let it 
cook till done. This is either used 
to make a mock turtle soup or is 
served with a Sauce a, la Poulette. 
as follows: Make a Sauce a. la Poulette 
(See recipe.) Put the calf's head in 
the sauce and let it boil for a halt 
hour. Take the yolk of one egg and 
beat it as you would an omelet. Add 
to the calf's head and serve. This 
will give the sauce a fine golden 
color. 

Calf's head may also be served with 
a Sauce AUemande. (See recipe.) 

Calf's Head A la Tortne. 

Tete de Veau a, la Tortue. 

1 Calf's Head. 2 Large Onions. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 1 Lemon. 

Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Wineglass of Sherry. 

1 Tablespoonful ot Butter. 

2 Eggs. 1 Pint of Consomme or Water. 

Slice the onions and mince the 

garlic. Put the butter into a stew 

pot, and as it melts add the onions 



89 



Add one tablespoonful of flour, sifted 
well, and, as this becomes brown, 
add one pint of consommg or water 
if you have not the broth. Then add 
the chopped thyme and bay lefi-f and 
the peel of one lemon, cut very fine, 
and the juice. Let all this simmer 
tor about ten minutes and then cut 
up the calf's head and add it to the 
mixture. After fifteen minutes add 
a. half can of mushrooms, and, in a 
few minutes, one small glass of Sher- 
ry wine. Let it all cook about ten 
minutes, and then season well, ac- 
cording to taste. Let all cook about 
half an hour longer, and, when ready 
to serve, place the calf's head in the 
middle of the dish, pour the gravy 
over and range the mushrooms 
around. Garnish them with the piec- 
es of a flat omelet, which you have 
made from the two eggs and cut into 
diamond shapes, alternating with 
toast buttered and cut into diamond- 
shaped Croutons. 

Tliere are many other ways of 
serving calf's head, but these are the 
standing Creole methcds. It is well 
to repeat that a calf's head requires 
about three hours to boil. 

Calve's Brains Fried. 

Cervelles de Veau Marinade. 

Calve's Brains. 1 Onion. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf- 

Gi'ated Bread Crumbs. 
Plunge the brains into cold water 
to disgorge them of all .blood and re- 
move the fine skin and blood that 
surrounds them. Then blanch with 
scalding water. In flve minutes Jaka 
them out of the hot water and put 
them into a saucepan and cover with 
cold water. Add a tiny onion, sliced 
fine; parsley and bay leaf, whole. 
Let them simmer gently for five min- 
tites. Then take from the fire and 
drain. When cold, cut into pieces 
of a square inch and dip in a batter 
or tomato sauce, and then in grated 
bread crumbs, patting gently. Drop 
into boiling lard and fry to a golden 
brown. Take out and drain of grease 
and serve on a bed of fried parsley. 
A garnish of boiled green peas is 
also very pretty and palatable. 

Calve's Brains, Brown Butter 
Sauce. 

Cervelles de Veau au Beurre Noir. 

Calve's uralns. 

1 Tatlespoonful of Butter. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Parsley. 

Sauce aux Beurre Noir. 

Prepare the brains as mentioned 

above by boiling, and then place in 

a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of 

butter. Cut up a tiny onion, and add 

also a sprig of thyme, bay leaf and 

parsley, alf minced very fine. Add 

to the butter, and then add the brains 

cut in slices a half inch thick. Sea- 



son again to taste. Fry for fivo 
minutes, and serve with a Sauce aux 
Beurre Noir. (See recipe.) 

Calf's lilver Pried. 

Foie de Veau Sautfi i la Lyonnaise. 

1 Pound of Liver 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter, 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Slice the liver very fine into pieces 

of about three inches in length and 

one in widtli. Season well with salt 

and pepper. Slice two onions very 

fine and take a tablespoonful of lard 

or butter and put into the frying pan. 

When it heats, add the onions and. as 

they brown, place on top the slices 

of liver. Let them brown on one 

side about two minutes and a half, 

and then turn on the other. Let 

this side brown two minutes and a 

half longer and serve with the onion 

sauce, to which add a teaspoonful of 

vinegar. 

Calve's lilver a la Bonrgeolse. 

Pole de Veau Sautfi k la Bourgeoise. 

1 Calf's Liver. 1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 

1 Turnip. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Pint of Broth or Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the liver and lard it well 
With n'feedles. Put a tablespoonful of 
lard of butter into the frying pan,, 
and when hot, add .immediately the 
onion, carrot and turnip, all sliced 
very fine, and then the flne herbs, 
hicely minced. Let these brown, and 
add the liver. Pour over this about 
two spoons of White Wine or one of 
Sherry. Add aljout a pint of con- 
somm§ or boiling water. Season 
highly, cover the saucepan well, set 
back on the fire, and let it simmer 
for about half an hour, and serve. 

Fried lilver and Bacon. 

Foie de Veau Frit au Petit Sal6. 

1 Pound of Calf's Liver. 
Vn Pound of Breakfast Bacou. 
% Teaspoonful of Salt. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
Black Pepper to Taste. 
Slice the liver into pieces of about 
three inches in length and one-quar- 
ter of an inch in thickness; slice the 
bacon very thin, having as many 
slices of the bacon as of the liver. 
Put the bacon in the frying pan and 
fry brown; then place it in a heated 
dish and set over a pot of boiling 
water and cover to keep warm. Dust 
the liver with flour, after having 
seasoned well with salt and pepper 
and fry it in the bacon fat. When it 
cooks about five minutes, ajlowing 
two minutes and a half to each side, 
take out and arrange on the same 
dish with the bacon in alternate 
slices. Garnish nicely with parsley 
and serve. 



90 



Calf's Feet, Plain. 

Pieds de Veau au Naturel. 

3 Calfs Feet. 

3 Quarts o£ Cold Water. 1 Gill of Vinegar. 

2 Tablespoonfula of Flour. 

1 Oniou. 1 Carrot. 

12 Wbole Pepper Corns. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt. 

1 Herlt Bouquet. 

Split each ot the calf's feet in two. 
Then carefully remove the larger 
bones, and cut the meat into pieces 
of about one incli square. Soak well 
in fresh water for one hour. Then 
wash and drain thoroughly. Put two 
tablespoonfuls ot flour and three 
quarts of cold water into a saucepan; 
stir well, mixing thoroughly; place 
the feet in the mixture and add one 
onion (chopped fine), twelve whole 
peppers, one carrot cut into fine 
shreds; the herb bouquet and two 
tablespoonfuls of salt. Let the feet 
boil briskly for about one hour. Take 
from the fire and arain well. They 
are now ready to serve with any 
sauce that may be desired. 

Calf's Feet A la Foulette. 

Pieds de "Veau k la Poulette. 

Calf's Feet. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sifted Flour. 

1 Pint of Water. 14 Can of Mushrooms. 

Yolk of 1 Egg. Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Boil the calf's feet; then take out 
the larger bones and cut in pieces of 
about an inch suare. Prepare a 
Sauce a. la Poulette by putting one 
tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan, and, as it melts, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sifted flour; add about 
one pint of the water in which the 
calf's feet have been boiled. Stir 
well and throw in the calf's feet, 
sait and pepper to taste,, and, if de- 
sired, about a quarter of a can of 
chopped mushrooms. Let it boil 
about five minutes, and then take 
off the stove and add the yolk of an 
egg (beaten well), the juice of one 
lemon, and serve. 

Calf's Feet, Tomato Sauce. 

Pieds de Veau, Sauce Tomate. 

3 Calf's Feet. 

A Sauce a la Tomate (1 Pint.) 

Prepare the feet as in the recipe 

"Calf's Feet, Plain," and pour over, 

when ready to serve, a Sauce a, la 

Tomate. (See recipe.) 

Calf's Feet, Planant Sauce. 

Pieds de Veau, Sauce Plquante. 

3 Calf's Feet. 

1 Pint or Sauce Plquante, 

Prepare the calf's feet as in recipe 

for "Calf's Feet, Plain," and add, 

when ready to serve, one pint of 

Sauce Piquajite. (See recine.l 



Calf's Feet, Sauce Reiuoulade. 

Pieds de Veau t la Sauce Remoulade. 

3 Calf's Feet. 

Sauce Remoulade, 1 Pint. 

Prepare the feet as in the recipe 
for Calf's Feet Plain, and pour over, 
when ready to serve, one pint of hot 
Sauce Remoulade. (See recipe.) 

Calf's Feet, Italian Sauce. 

Pieds de Veau 3. la Sauce Italienne. 

3 Calf's Feet. 

1 Pint of _Sauc« a I'ltalienne. 

Prepare the feet as in the recipe 

for "Calf's Feet, Plain," and serve 

with one pint of Sauce 2- I'ltalienne. 

(See recipe.) 

SWEETBREADS. 

Ris de Veau. 

Sweetbreads are the glands in the 
throat of a sucking calf. They are 
found in the throat of all very young 
sucking animals, but are more con- 
siderable in the throat of the young 
calf, and even then at the largest are 
seldom bigger than a man's flst 
doubled over. The sweetbreads are 
the glands used by the calf in suck- 
ing, and are only found In the young 
calf during the period when it is 
fed on its mother's milk. "When a 
calf is turned out to grass, the 
sweetbreads, or inilk glands, be- 
gin to grow smaller, ani in 
three or four days disappear, 
no longer standing out in a mass 
of delicate flesh, but hanging long 
and soft and flabby. On account of 
their delicacy, sweetbreads have al- 
ways been the object of particular 
attention of good cuisini6res, because, 
in a fine, fresh state and with prop- 
er preparation they can be made not 
only into a most delightful and pal- 
atable dish, but are, perhaps, the 
most r6cherch6 of all meat dishes. 
At least, the sweetbreads have al- 
ways been so considered by the 
French, who set the world the lesson 
of good eating hundreds of years 
ago; and the Creole chefs of New Or- 
leans, improving upon old French 
methods of cooking, as well as orig- 
inating their own delicious combina- 
tions, sustain the verdict of the gour- 
mets of the ancient mother country. 

It is surprising what a diversity of 
definitions of sweetbreads are given 
by educated people in America. 
Scarcely one person In ten, if the 
question is put directly, can tell just 
what a sweetbread is, and they can 
scarcely be blamed, for the most dis- 
tinguished lexicographers, from Web- 
ster down to the compiler of the 
New Century, fail to give the correct 
definition. "Webster defines sweet- 
breads "as the pancreas of any ani- 
mal," and defines "pancreas" as "a 
gland of the body, situated between 



the loins." The New Century's .defi- 
nition is almost parallel. Every old 
French dictionary (for it Was French 
cooks who first began to use the 
sweetbreads in cooking) define 
sweetbreads as the glands in the 
throat of any young animal, more 
generally the sucking calf, as these 
latter are used exclusively in the 
preparation of sweetbread dishes. 
The old Creole gourmets have had 
infinite amusement over the defini- 
tions given by American dictionary 
makers, and, as for the ancient Cre- 
ole butchers in the French Market, 
they curl their lips in scorn and tell 
you Just to come down to the New 
Orleans Slaughter-House when the 
calves are being killed, and they will 
show you the sucking calves, which 
have sweetbreads, and the calves 
which have gone out to grass and in 
whose throats the sweetbreads have 
disappeared. If you quote Webster 
and the New Century, they will tell 
you that a good butcher knows bet- 
ter than the dictionary maker where 
meats are concerned. 

The Picayune feels constrained to 
give the definition of sweetbreads as 
a matter of correct information. The 
custom of calling the panacreas the 
"sweetbreads" is accounted for by 
our Creole butchers in this way: 
The sweetbreads are very expensive, 
the smallest costing at least 25 cents 
apiece. To make a dish for six, al- 
lowing one apiece, would, therefore, 
cost $1.50, for sweetbreads alone, 
without other ingredients. Sweet- 
breads are not always to be found in 
the market in quantity to supply the 
demand. Large canning factories have 
therefore, made it a practice to take 
the gland of the stomach of the calf, 
or pancreas, and prepare it in such 
a way, by canning, that it partakes 
somewhat of the nature of a sweet- 
bread; and, as there is such wide- 
spread ignorance as to what a sweet- 
bread really is, even among the most 
fastidious epicureans of the United 
States, the "pancreas" is passed off 
as such, and is becoming gradually 
accepted as such outside of the New 
Orleans market, where the old 
French or Gascon butcher scorns to 
sell you anything but the real sweet- 
bread. He has too much respect for 
the traditional cooking of his native 
France and his own reputation as a 
reliable butcher to do such a thing as 
this. He laughs at the great big 
sweetbreads as large as a man's 
hand, spread out to the full extent 
and width, that come in cans labeled 
"Sweetbreads," and will tell you that 
no sucking calf In the world, unless 
it had goitre, could have such a gland 
In the throat. The French, indeed, 
use the term "Pancreas" in connec- 
tion with sweetbread; but the word 
Is meant to imply in this significa- 
tion "toute chair," or "all flesh," and 
has nothing in common with the 



pancreas proper, or stomach gland. 
Hence the very apt name which tliey 
have given to the sweetbread, "Ris de 
Veau"; it implies to all who have a 
comprehension of this beautiful and 
expressive language the soft, deli- 
cate, milky gland that is so dainty 
and rScherchS a dish in the most 
elegant French and Creole homes. 

With this explanation, the Pica- 
yune "Cook Book" will now give the 
mpst delicious Creole modes of pre- 
" paring this delectable dish. 

HoiY to Blanch Stveetbreads. 

Select three fine pairs of sweet- 
breads and clean and trim nicely. 
Soak them for at least two ana a 
half hours in cold fresh water, pour- 
ing off the water from time to time 
till three separate waters have been 
used. About three-quarters of an 
hour may be allowed for the first two 
waters. Add a pincli of salt to each 
water. After soaking for the time 
specified, drain the sweetbreads and 
place them in a saxicepan of cold 
water and set on the flre; add a half 
teaspoonful of salt, and let the-m 
blanch till they come to a boil. Then 
drain and set them in cold water to 
freslien. Drain thoroughly, press 
them into shape and lay on a nap- 
kin in a cool place. They are now 
ready for general use. The sweet- 
breads should be pressed down gently 
with a pound weight, in order to 
flatten well. 

Sn-eetbreads Larded \VIth Muslirooin 
Sauce. 

Ris de Veau Piqu6 aux Champignons. 

6 Sweetbreads. 1 Carrot. 

4 Thin Slices of Bacon. 

1 Onion. 1/4 Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Tablespoonful ot Floor. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Whole Sprig of Thyme. 3 Bay Leaves. 

1 Wineglass of Madeira or Sherry, 
1 Pint o£ Consomme. 

Salt and Pepper. Croutons. 

Soak the sweetbreads in clear, cold 
water as soon as I'rn come from mar- 
ket, for they are so delicate that 
they spoil very easily. Wash well, 
to take off all the blood; wash again 
in a clear cold water, and parboil 
them for ten minutes. Then drain 
them of all water, press them into 
shape and put them on a clean cloth 
on a table and cover with a plank 
and put'a weight upon them to flat- 
ten. When cold, clean with a knife, 
cutting off all the outside nerves, 
veins and fibers, witho'ut breaking 
the sweetbreads, however. Cut fat 
lard into little strips like matches, 
and, with a larding needle, lard the 
sweetbreads, slipping the needle in 
on one side and bringing out on the 
other. Lard each sweetbread eight 
times. Then slice one onion and one 
carrot very fine; mince three bay 
leaves and a whole sprig of thyme. 



Take a very thin slice of very fat 
bacon, cut it into thin strips and 
cover tile bottom of the saucepan 
with these. Lay the sweetbreads on 
top and put on top of these the 
sliced onion, carrot and finely 
minced herbs, o^iit and pepper 
by sprinkling nicely. Cover tliis 
with a few fine strips of fat ba- 
con. Cover the whole with a brown 
paper which has bsen well greased 
with butter, and put the pan in a 
slow oven with the paper on top. 
Let the sweetbreads bake for about 
t"wenty minutes, basting occasion- 
ally. In the meantim,e make a 
Sauce a, I'Espagnole as foUovys: Chop 
a fe"^v pieces of beef very fine, or 
else use good stock. If meat is used 
boil in about t"wo pints of water, 
Wlien it is reduced to about one 
pint, take off and strain. Take a 
tablespoonful of butter or lard, and 
brown lightly with a tablespoonful 
of flour. Then add the water and 
dissolve well, stirring constantly to 
prevent being lumpy. Add to this a 
half can of mus.hrooms, and let it 
simmer a few minutes, and then add 
a glass of Sherry or Madeira Wine. 
Let it cook rapidly, for about ten 
minutes. In the meantime, the sweet 
breads will have been cooked to a 
nicety. Take them out of the pan 
and put one by one into the sauce, 
and let them cook ten minutes long- 
er. Serve with buttered CroQtons cut 
in dice shapes. Sweetbreads are al- 
ways served with fresh young green 
peas. This is a famous Creole dish. 

SiveetbrenflM Willi Green Peas. 

His de Veau SautS aux Petit Pois. 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 4 Slices of Vat Bacon. 

1 Can of Frenci Petit Pois, or 1 Pint 

of Fresh Young Green Peas. 

3 Ba.T Leaves. 

1 Srirlg of Thyme. 3 Cloves. 

Vi Pint of Fresh Mills. 1 Pint of Consomma. 

Salt anil Pcjiper to Taste. 

Croutons. 

Prepare the Sweetbreads in ex- 
actly the same manner as Indicated 
in the above recipe, which is the 
very nicest way in which they can 
be served. Make the sauce as indi- 
cated, letting it brown slightly, and, 
instead of the mushrooms, add a can 
of French Petit Pois or a pint of 
fresh young green peas that have al- 
ready been boiled well and drained 
from all liquor. Place the sweet- 
breads in one by one and let them 
cook for ten minutes longer and 
serve with the sweetbreads placed 
in the center of the dish, and the 
green peas around them as a gar- 
nish. 



Sweetbrcnds AVIth Trnflleii. 

Ris de Veau aux TrufCes. 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 
4 Slices of Fat Bacon. % Can of TrufflM. 

1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 

1 Glass of Madeira or Sherry Wine. 
1 Pint of Consomme or Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flonr. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
3 Bay Leaves. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 
Salt and Pepper. 
Croutons. 
Prepare the sweetbreads in exact- 
ly the same manner as in the recipe 
"Sweetbreads with Mushrooms." 
When making the sauce, add a wine- 
glassful of Madeira or Sherry, and 
rne-half can of truffles cut in halves. 
Serve with the truffles as a gar- 
nish about the sweetbreads. This is 
a very expensive dish, very rgoherchS 
and very elegant. 

STvectbrends a la CrSiiie. 

Ris de Veau a, la CrSme. 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

10 Mushrooms. 1% Tablespoonfuls of Butter, 

1\^ Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Pint of Cream. 

Clean and parboil the sweetbreads 
for twenty minutes. Then remove 
all veins and nerves, and chop the 
meat into pieces of about an inch 
, and a half. , Chop the mushrooms 
very fine indeed. Put the butter in 
a saucepan, and, when it melts, add 
the flour, being careful not to let 
it brown. When perfectly smooth, 
add the- r^ilkand stir constantly until 
it boils. Then add the chopped mush- 
rooms and let thum simmer for five 
minutes. Season well to taste with 
salt and white pepper. Then add 
the sweetbreads and cook for five 
minutes longer and serve hot. At 
luncheons and diAners the Sweet- 
breads k la Crdme are served in small 
silver shells or fancy paper cases. 

Sweetbreads ft la Flnanel$re. 

Ris de Veau 3, la Financi^re. 

3 Pairs of Sweetbread % Pound of Butter, 
3 Carrots. 2 Sprigs of Thyme. 
3 Bay Leaves. 
1 Pint of Beef Consomme or Water. 
1 Pint of Rich Chlcjion Broth or Water. 
2 Truffles. 12 Mushrooms. 18 Stoned Ollvea. 
12 Godlveau. Quenelles. 
2 Blanched Chicken Livers. 
A Half Pint of Madeira or Sherry Wine. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Croutons Fried in Butter to Garnish. 
Select fine, fresh Sweetbreads and 
prepare as in the recipe for Sweet- 
breads Larded With Mushrooms. 
Parboil for twenty minutes; then 
drain of all water; press them into 
shape, lay on a clean napkin and cov- 
er with a plank and place a weight 
upon them to press and make solid. 



93 



Take a piece of fine salt pork, and 
cut into little thin strips like matclies 
and lard the Sweetbreads with this, 
using a very- fine larding needle, and 
following implicitly the direction 
given in the recipe for Sweetbreads 
Larded With Mushroom Sauce.- Lard 
each Sweetbread eight times. Then 
take a shallow saucepan and piil 
within a half pound of butter. When 
the butter melts, lay in the Sweet- 
breads, one by one. Season with 
salt and ptpper very lightly, and add 
the three carrots, sliced fine, and 
the onion, sliced very fine. Add the 
finely minced thyme and bay leaves. 
Butter a piece of brown paper and 
cover the saucepan; then set in the 
oven and let the Sweetbreads cook 
slowly till they are of a bright 
golden brown. From time to time 
uncover the saucepan and turn the 
Sweetbreads, so that all portions of 
them may be evenly colored. When 
they have reached this beautiful col- 
or add one pint of good beef broth 
(Consomme or Bouillon), and let 
them simmer foj a half or tliree- 
quarters of an hour. When nearly 
ready to serve, prepare a Sauce a, la 
FinanciSre as follows: Take two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, melt and 
remove from the fire, and add grad- 
ually a tablespoonful ot flour;- blend 
well with a wooden spoon till very 
smooth, and moisten with one pint 
of rich chicken broth and set on the 
fire. Add the truffies, nicely sliced; 
a dozen and a half stoned olives; 
the blanched chicken livers, cut in 
pieces; the mushrooms, nicely 
chopped; a half pint of Madeira or ■ 
Sherry Wine, salt and pepper to 
taste, and a dash of Cayenne or 
Tabasco. Let the sauce cook for 
twenty minutes. It should be of the 
consistency of rich cream. Place the 
sauce in a round dish, lay the Sweet- 
breads over it, garnish with the Go- 
diveau Quenelles and CroQtons fried 
In butter and send to the table hot. 

Sweetbreads Ik la Poulettc. 

Ris de Veau a. la roulette. 

3 Pall's of Sweetbreads. 

The Yolks ot 4 Eggs. Tlie Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1/4 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

A Sauce a la Poulette. 

Parboil the Sweetbreads for about 
twenty minutes, then make a Sauce 
Si la Poulette (see recipe), adding the 
juice of one lemon and seasoning to 
taste. But do not add the eggs till 
the sauce has been taken from the 
fire or it will curdle. When the 
sauce is made, place the sweetbreads 
in it, one by one, and let it come to 
the boiling point. Then remove 
from the fire and stir in the yolks 



of four eggs that have been well 
beaten, and a half tablespoonful of 
butter. Sprinkle with finely-chopped 
parsley, pour over the sweetbreads 
and serve. 

SweetbroailH In CasHeroIcn. 

Ris de Veau en Casseroles, ou Vol- 
au-Vent. 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 
Vi, Cau of Slushrooms. 
2 Dozen Oysters. 
1 Glass of Slierry Wine. 
A Sauce a la Poulette. 
Parboil the Sweetbreads in ex- 
actly the same manner as in the 
above recipe for Sweetbreads a la 
Poulette. Six sweetbreads will suf- 
fice. Cut them inio dice pieces af- 
ter parboiling; add a quarter of a 
can ot finely-chopped muslirooms to 
the sauce, and a glass of Sherrv 
wine. Take two dozen oysters and 
cut in pieces, taking off all the hard 
portions. Add the chopped sweet- 
breads to the sauce, and, after ten 
minutes, add the oysters. Let them 
cook for five minutes, have ready a 
pan filled with a rich vol-au-vent 
crust, pour the mixture in and serve. 
Or make the vol-au-vent crust, which 
is very diflicult (see recipe), into 
small shells; bake and fill witli the 
sweetbreads. This is an elegant 
disli for fashionable luncheons, but 
quite above the ordinary household- 
er's purse. The sweetbreads are 
generally served in caseroles or fan- 
cy cases. 

S^reetbreads Crtsplncitcn. 

Crfipinettes de Ris de Veau. 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

, % Clove ot Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful ot Prepared Mustard. 

Clean and parboil the sr.'eetbreads 
as already shown in recipe. Chop 
an onion very fine and place it in a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of 
butter. Let them simmer without 
browning; add one bay leaf, one 
sprig of thyme, one-half clove of 
garlic, a teaspoonful of prepared 
mustard, and mix well. Then add 
a pint of water and stir well; then 
add the sweetbreads which have been 
chopped very fine and formed into- 
"Crgpinettes," or little fringed balls, 
by patting with the hand; let them 
simmer, for about fifteen minutes 
longer. Serve with any sauce, prefi 
erably a Cream Sauce. (See recipe 
under chapter "Sauces for Fish, 
Meats, etc.") 

Frieil Sireetbreads Breaded. 

Ris de Veau Panfies. 

3 Pairs ot Sweetbreads. 

1 Egg. Grated Bread Crumba. 

A Cream Sauce. 

Wash and parboil the sweetbreads 



94 



and then trim oft all tendons and 
nerves. Cut into pieces of about two 
inches long and roll first in a well- 
beaten egg and then in bread crumbs. 
Drop into boiling fat and fry till a 
golden brown. Serve with a Cream 
Sauce. 

Broiled STveetlireads. 

Ris de Veau GrillSes. 

3 Pnlra of Sweetbreads. 

2 TablespooDtuls o( Melted Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parboil the sweetbreads and then 
remove all nerves. Cut into halves. 
Brush with melted butter and place 
on the gridiron. Broil nicely, and, 
when well colored, take off, pour 
melted butter over them, season 
again, and serve very hot. This is a 
delicious breakfast dish. 

SweethTeuiS^ Smothered. 

Ris de Veau Braissgs. 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

2 Tablespoonluls of Butter. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay LcaTCB. 

1 Pint of Consomme or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the Sweetbreads as in the 
recipe for "Sweetbreads Larded With 
Mushrooms." Put them into a sauce- 
pan with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ler, and let them brown slightly. 
Add a finely-sliced carrot and onion 
and the minced herbs. Season light- 
ly with salt and pepper. Cover the 
saucepan with a buttered paper, and 
then cover closely. Occasionally un- 
cover and turn the Sweetbreads till 
they are all browned evenly to a 
nice golden brown. When they have 
reached this color, add the pint of 
Consomme or water .and cover again 
and let them simmer for about twen- 
ty minutes. They are now ready t(^ 
serve with any kind of sauce or gar- 
nish that may be desired. In serv- 
ing sweetbreads thus prepared, al- 
ways place the sauce on the dish, first 
having the dish very hot; lay the 
Sweetbreads over the sauce, garnish 
nicely "with fried Crotitons and serve. 

Sweetbreads thus prepared may be 
served with a Sauce S. I'Oiselle, Sauce 
Salpicon, Sauce k la Soubise, Sauce 
a. la Bearnaise, Sauce a la Duxelle, 
Sauce aux Gourmets, with a Pur6e 
of Spinach, or with hot Cr#pes. 

Observations. 

There are many other ways of 
serving Sweetbreads. We have "Ris 
de Veau ft I'Espagnole," "Ris de Veau 
en Coquilles," etc., for the Creoles 
have infinite variety in serving al- 
most every dish. But the above are 
the recipes in most general use, and 
the recipes "Sweetbreads Larded with 
Mushrooms," Sweetbreads with Green 
Peas" and "Sweetbreads with Truf- 
fles" cannot be too highly recom- 
mended. These preparations are In 



a very distinct manner peculiar to 
New Orleans, and are elegant en- 
tries at the most distinguished 
'feasts. 

TRIPE. 
Tripe. 
Tripe, which is the large stomach 
•of ruminating animals, is generally 
cleaned, scraped, bleached and pre- 
parde by the butchers before it is 
sold. It is nutritious and digestible. 
To prepare the tripe properly tor 
cooking, wash it carefully in several 
waters. When thoroughly clean, put 
it in a kettle of cold water; add' one 
tablespoonful of salt and one of vin- 
egar, and let the tripe boil for five 
hours at least. In the meantime, 
pared by the butchers before it is 
always best, if tripe is to be used 
for breakfast to prepare it and give 
the long boiling the day before. 
Drain thoroughly. Then it is ready 
for preparation according to any of 
the following recipes: 

Stewed Tripe. 

Tripe Sautge. 

2 Pounds of Prepared Tripe. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig of Parsley. 1 Bay Ijeaf. 

% Clove of Garlic. % Pint of Milk. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Take the prepared tripe and out 
into strips of about one finger length 
and a half inch In width. Put a ta- 
blespoonful in a saucepan; add a fine- 
ly-sliced onion, a sprig of parsley 
and a bay leaf, minced. Stir in the 
melted butter without letting it 
brown, then add a tablespoonful of 
flour. Stir well and add a pint of 
milk. Stir constantly till it comes to 
a boil, seasoning to the taste with 
salt and pepper. Then add the well- 
seasoned tripe and let it cook over 
a raioderate fire for about five min- 
utes. 

Stetred Tripe a la liyonnalse. 

Tripe a. la Lyonnaise. 

2 Pounds of Prepared Tripe. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Sprig of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

% Clove of Garlic. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon, or a Teaspoontnl 
of Vinegar. 
Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 
Place a tablespoonful of butter in 
a saucepan and add one chopped on- 
ion, one carrot, finely sliced; a sprig 
each of thyme, parsley, bay leaf and 
salt and pepper. Let it brown slight- 
ly and place the tripe on top, and ad- 
ding a half clove of garlic, minced 
very fine. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and add the Juice of one 
lemon. Let it all simmer for a few 
minutes and theii add a half cup of 
broth or hot water. Season to the 



95 



tast«, let it simmer for twenty min- 
utes longer and serve. 

' Tripe a la Fonlette. 

Gras-Double a, la Poulette. 
2 Pounds of Tripe. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Butter. 
1 Tfiblespoonful of Flour. 
1 Sprig of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 
A Sauce a la Foulette. 
Having- prepared the tripe accord- 
ing to the directions given under the 
heading of "Tripe," , make a rich 
Sauce a, la Poulette, always omitting 
the eggs till later. (See recipe.) 
Take eight small white onions that 
have already been boiled in plain 
water until they are perfectly ten- 
der, and add to the sauce. Let them 
stew for about five minutes. Then 
add the tripe, which has been cut into 
pieces of three inches in length, and 
one-half inch in Tvidth, and stew the 
whole gently fsr ffbout a half hour. 
Take off the fire and add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, stirring constantly 
and serve hot. 

Pried Tripe. 

Tripe Frite. 

2 Pounds of Tripe. 
1 Egg. Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Parsley and Lemon to Garnish. 
Prepare the tripe, boil well, and 
cut into pieces of three inches in 
length and one in width. Roll it in 
a beaten egg and then roll in grated 
bread crumbs. Drop in boiling lard 
and fry to a golden brown. (See di- 
rections for frying.) Take off the 
fire and place on a bed of fried par- 
sley and garnish with sliced lemon. 
Serve with a Sauce Piquante or a 
Sauce Poivrade. (See recipe for 
meat sauces.) 

Tripe & la Creole, 

Gras-Double a. la Creole. 

2 Pounds of Tripe. 

12 Tomatoes, or a 2-Pound Can. 

2. Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Square Inch of Lean Ham. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Tast*. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Clean the tripe well, and boil till 
tender. Cut it into slices of about 
two inches long and half an inch 
wide. Take two onions and slice 
them fine, and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Put in a saucepan together 
and let them smother well. Then 
chop about one inch sqquare of lean 



ham very fine, and add. Take two 
cloves of garlic, chopped fine, with 
three sprigs each of thyme and bay 
leaf, minced very fine. Put in a 
saucepan, and let all brown. Then 
add about twelve large, fresh toma- 
toes, or the contents of a two-pound 
can. Season all to taste with salt 
and Cayenne pepper. Let it cook for 
ten minutes, and then add the tripe, 
and let all smother for twenty-five 
minutes. Season to taste, and serve 
hot. 

Tripe a la Mode de CaSn, 

Gras-Double &. la Mode de Caen. 

3 Pounds of Tripe. 3 Onions. 3 Carrots. 

1 Dozen Whole Bay Leaves. 

1 Dozen Whole Cloves. 

1 Doaen Whole Allspice. 

3 Cloves of Gai-lie (whole.) 

1 Ounce of Thyme (whole.) 

2 Dozen Pieces of Bacon 2 Inches Square. 

% Bottle of White Wine. 

1 Cup of Broth or Water. 

Salt, Cayenne and Chill Pepper to Taste. 

Take three pounds of tripe. Cut 
the tripe into pieces of about two 
inches square. Slice three onions 
and three large carrots very fine. 
Take one dozen whole bay I'^aves. 
one ounce of thyme, whole; one doz- 
en whole cloves, and the same num- 
ber of allspice, three whole cloves of 
garlic, two dozen pieces of very thin 
bacon cut into pieces of two inches 
square. Have ready a two-gallon 
earthen jar that can stand baking in 
an oven. Put in the bottom of the 
jar a thin layer of butter. Place on 
top a thin -layer of bacon, then a 
thin layer of onions, carrots, bay 
leaves, thyme, garlic, spices, divid- 
ing into two equal portions the 
whole amount. Sprinkle over the 
whole salt, Cayenne and Chili pep- 
per. On top of this lay one-half of 
the tripe. Over the tripe place a 
layer of bacon; then vegetables, sea- 
sonings, etc. Over this place another 
layer of tripe, and remnants of 
thyme, bay leaf, vegetables, bacon, 
etc., as below, this being the la«t 
layer. Pour over all a half bottle of 
White Wine and one cup of broth or 
water. Cover the jar closely with a 
layer of Pie Paste (PatS Bris6e^- 
see recipe), set in a very moderate 
oven, and let it cook slowly for at 
least five hours of constant, steady 
cooking. Tills Is a very rgcherchS 
old-fashioned Creole dish, and very 
excellent. Some add to the tripe a 
small quantity of calf's head or feet. 
In making this dish you will need lit- 
tle else for dinner besides a soup or 
gumbo. > 



CHAPTER XIV. 
MtJTTOX. 

Du Mouton 



The leg, shoulder and loiri of the 
mutton are used as roasting pieces. 
The brisket and neck are used for 
soups and stews, and from the loins 
are cut the delicate French chops 
or cutlets of mutton. Mutton Is so 
susceptible of elegant seasoning, and 
so easily impregnated with the dif- 
rerent aromatic herbs used in cook- 
ing that it becomes not only most 
agreeable to the taste, but tender 
ami very easily digested. 



Something to Remember in Cooking 
Mutton. 

Remember that mutton must never 
be fried. You will hear of mutton 
chops .breaded, and mutton chops 
en papilotte, in imitation of the ways 
of cooking veal chops, but the Cre- 
oles very wisely and very sensibly re- 
frain from cooking mutton in any 
other ways than those given -in this 
book. No good Creole cook will eat 
a fried mutton chop. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. 

Gigot Roti. 

1 Leg of Mutton. 
Salt aud Pepper to Taste. 

Select a fine, tender leg of mutton. 
Wipe thoroughly with a damp towel 
and dredge with sa.lt and pepper, 
thoroughly rubbing, so that the meat 
may be penetrated by the seasoning. 
Place the mutton in a baking pan, set 
in a quick oven and bake, basting 
every ten minutes or so, allowing 
twelve minutes to every pound. The 
mutton must never be overdone but 
underdone. The Creoles always serve 
it rare. It will require no larding, 
for the meat is rich and soon makes 
sufficient juice to allow frequent 
basting. To ascertain if done, press 
with the fingers or stick with a 
fork; the juice will spurt out, and it 
Is then ready to serve. Decorate the 
bone with a quilling of white paper, 
and serve in its own sauce. The dish 
on which mutton is placed must al- 
ways be very hot, as alsd the plates 
on which it is to be served. 

Avoid thickening the gravy with 
flour. No practice is more reprehen- 
sible. If well cooked, the juice will 
almost spurt from the leg before it 
is carved. A very nice way to serve 



it, and one generally used by th«- 
Creoles, is to put a circle of nicely- 
boiled and browned turnips aroTOid, 
the dish, and serve with the gravy ol 
the mutton. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton, 

Selle de Mouton Rotie. 

A Saddle 'of Mutton. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Currant Jelly. 

A saddle of mutton is two loins. 
Proceed to roast in exactly the same 
manner as for a single leg. Serve 
with Currant Jelly. 

Roast Loin of Mutton. 

Filet de Mouton Roti. 

A Filet of Mutton. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Garnish of Green Peas. 

The filet of mutton is a square cut 
from the loin. Proceed to dredge 
with salt and pepper, and roast in. 
exactly the same manner as leg of 
mutton. The Creoles serve the fllet 
very often with a garnish of green 
peas (Petit Pois) piled around. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce. 

Gigot de Mouton Bouilli, Sauce aux. 
Capres. 

1 Leg of Mutton. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Caper Sauce. 

Rub the leg of mutton well with 
salt and pepper. Have ready a pot 
of boiling water, into which you have- 
thrown the herbs, bay leaf, salt and 
pepper, allowing a teaspoonful eacli- 
of the two latter ingredients. Put 
the leg of mutton into the water,- 
being very careful to have it well 
covered with water, else the meat 
will blacken. Let it boil gently but 
steadily, allowing fifteen minutes to- 
every pound of meat. When done, 
place on a dish and serve with a 
Caper Sauce. In serving slice nicely 
and put a few drops of lemon on 
each slice, and pour over the Caper- 
sauce. (See recipe Caper Sauce.) 
Mutton thus prepared is also serve* 
with a Purfee of Turnips. 



97 



Mutton SteTT. 

Ragotlt de Mouton aux Pommes de 
Terre. 

I 4 Founds of the Brisket of Mutton. 

6 Irish Potatoes. 

3 Large Onions. 1 Bay I«af. 

M Clove of Gallic. 

V4 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1 Sunare Tnch of Hnm,-. Oliopped Very rine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the mutton into pieces of about 
an Inch square and season well with 
salt and pepper. Put one-quarter of 
a tablespoonful of lard into the stew- 
pot, and when it melts add the thinly 
sliced onions. Let these brown for 
a few minutes and then add the 
mutton and the ham, chopped very 
fine. Let this continue browning', 
and when slightly browned, add one 
tablespoonful of finely sifted flour 
and stir well. Then add the finely- 
minced bay leaf and a half clove of 
'garlic, minced fine. Brown lightly, 
for a mutton stew must never be 
dark. After twenty minutes, add two 
quarts of boiling water and let it 
boil for about ten minutes longer, 
seasoning to taste. Then add the 
potatoes, cut into halves, and let 
the mixture cook for three-quarters 
of an hour longer, making one hour 
and a half in all. Let it simmer 
gently all the time, so that the meat 
may be perfectly tender. 

Mntton Ste^T WitU Turnips. 

Ragoflts de Mouton aux Navets. 

4 Pounds of the Brisliet of Mntton. 

6 Turnips. 3 Large Onions. 

1 Bay Leaf. % Clove of Garlic. 

Vi Tablespoonful of Lard. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1 Square Inch of Ham, Chopped Very Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the mutton into pieces of about 
an inch in length and thickness, and 
season well. Proceed to make the 
stew as mentioned above, only in- 
stead of adding the potatoes, add 
turnips parboiled, and cut into halves 
or quarters. This is a very delicious 
stew. The neck of the mutton may 
also be used for stews, but preferably 
the brisket. 

Slionlder of IHntton Smothered With 

Turnips. 

jfipaule de Mouton Braisfie. 

1 Shoulder of Mutton. 
1 Carrot. 1 Onion. % scaiK nf rc'er.r. 
4 Cloves. 1 Bay Leaf. 6 Turnips. 
If the mutton does not appear very 
tender the process of smothering it 
will make it so. It is well to beat 
the leg well with a rolling pin, and 
you will be sure of good and tender 
eating. Season well. Slice an on- 
ion and one carrot very fine; chop 
fine a half stalk of celery, and put 
these, with the shoulder of mutton. 
Into a deep baking pot. Cover well 



and let the mutton juice permeate 
the vegetables and brown them. Then 
add the minced bay leaves and cloves; 
cover and let these brown, and after 
ten minutes add one quart of boil- 
ing water. Season well again and 
set on a steady fire, allowing fifteen 
minutes to every pound. An hour 
before serving add six whole tur- 
nips, which have been peeled and 
parboiled, and let these remain 
smothered with the mutton. Serve 
with the turnips as a garnish. This 
dish is highly recommended. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. 

Cotelettes de Mouton GrillSes et 
PanSes. 

6 Mutton Chops. 
Butter. Salt and Pepper. 

In selecting mutton chops for 
broiling, remember that the smaller 
French chops, which are cut from the 
breast of the mutton, are generally 
served at dinner, and the loin chops 
for breakfast. The breast chops are 
daintier in appearance, but the loin 
chops are sweeter and the meat is 
more solid. The French chops should 
always be cut thinner than the. loin 
chops. 

Season the chops well with salt 
and pepper and brush with melted 
butter and a few bread crumbs. Have 
the gridiron very hot and place the 
chops upon it. In a few seconds 
turn the chop and let this side cook. 
The blood will be running out, and 
the chop is done. Place on a plat- 
ter, butter thickly and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and serve very hot. 

Mutton Cutlets. ) 

Cotelettes de Mouton, ' ■ 

4 Mutton Cutlets. ; 

Butter. Salt and Pepper. 

The cutlets are slices from the 
thick part of the leg of the mutton 
and are very excellent eating. Trim 
off the outer skin and broil in the 
same manner as mutton chops. They 
are very delicious served for din- 
ner with a garnish of PurSe of Spin- 
ach. (See recipe.) 

Mutton Chops, Brefrer's Style. 

Cotelettes de Mouton k la Brasseur. 

i Mutton Chops. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Juice of Lemon. 

3 Shallots. Chopped Pine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select six thick chops from the loin 
of the mutton. Trim neatly and sea- 
son well with salt and black pepper 
and a dash of Cayenne. Rub lightly 
with butter on either side and broil 
on a hot charcoal fire. Have ready 
a- hot dish and pour over the chops 
a sauce of melted butter, seasoned 
nicely with salt and pepper, the juice 
of one lemon and three minced shal- 
lots. Serve hot. 



Mutton Hash. 

Hachis de Mouton. 

3 Cups o£ Hashed Mutton. 

6 Potatoes. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Tablescpoonful o£ Lard or Butter. 

This is a splendid way of utilizing 
the left-over mutton. After having 
taken oft all the rough edges of the 
roast and cut out the gristle and hard 
membrane, hash the mutton into 
pieces of about one Inch in size. Take 
six left-over tomatoes, or freshly 
boiled, and cut into quarters. Chop 
fine one herb bouquet. Place a ta- 
blespoonful of butter or a half ta- 
blespoonful of lard into the stew- 
pot, and as it melts add the mutton 
seasoned well, and a few minutes 
later the fine herbs. Mince the clove 
of garlic if the flavor is liked and 
add. Stir constantly without brown- 
ing much, and add a tablespoonful of 
flour. Let this brown very slightly 
and then add the tomatoes. Cover 
and let all simmer for about twenty 
minutes, and then pour over a pint 
bf boiling water. Season again to 
taste and set back on the stove and 
let it simmer gently for about 
three-quarters of an hour. Cut some 
Croutons and fry them in butter; 
place on a dish and serve with the 
hash. The Creoles often add several 
poached eggs if the sauce is not thick 
enough. It is also a frequent custom 
to add a quarter or a half can of 
mushrooms to the hash, but this is 
always a matter of taste and econo- 
my. 

Mutton Feet a la Poulette. 

Pieds de Mouton S, la Poulette. 

32 llutton Feet. 

A Sauce a la Greme. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

H Teaspoonful of French Vinegar. 

1 Gill of Water. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

^ Can of Mushrooms (if desired.) 

This is a famous Creole dish. Scald 
the mutton feet in boiling water and 
remove every vestige of wool that 
may adhere, cleaning and scraping 
the feet. Then place them in a pot, 
cover well with boiling water, add 
half of a lemon (including peel and 
meat) to the water, and salt well. 
In the meantime, prepare a Sauce 
a la Poulette as follows: Make a 
Cream Sauce (see recipe Meat 
Sauces) and add the juice of one lem- 
on, or half a tablespoonful of good 
vinegar. Take the mutton feet out 
of the water in which they have 
been boied, take out the big bones 
from the feet. Put the mutton feet 
Into the Sauce 9. la Poulette, add a 
gill of water, let all simmer about 
five minutes, and then take off the 
fire and add the yolks of two eggs. 



beaten well, stirring well into the 
sauce. Serve hot. Many of the 
Creoles add a half can of mushrooms 
to the mutton feet before putting in 
the sauce. This makes the dish very 
delicious, increasing the flavor. 

Mutton Feet ft la liyonnalae, 

Pieds de Mouton a, la Lyonnaise. 

12 Mutton Feet. 
2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter, 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Pint of Broth. Salt and Pepper to Tastt 

Croutons. 

Clean and boil the mutton feet In 
the same way as indicated in the 
above recipe. When done take out 
the large bones and cut the feet into 
two-inch pieces. Cut two onions 
very flne, mincing them, and brown 
in a saucepan with a tablespoonful 
of butter. When slightly brown, add 
a tablespoonful of flour. Mix well, 
making a nice Brown Roux (see re- 
cipe under chapter on "Sauces for 
Meats, Pish, etc.") and then add about 
a pint of the broth in which the mut- 
ton feet have been boiled. As it 
boils, skim off the grease and let 
it simmer for about ten minutes. 
Then add the mutton feet and let 
them simmer ten minutes longer and 
serve hot, with Croiltons of bread 
fried in butter. Mutton feet may 
also be served with a Purfie of On- 
ions. (See recipe.) 

Stuffed Mutton F«"et. 

Pieds de Mouton Parois. 

12 Mutton Feet. % Cup of Wet Bread. 

1 Hard-Boiled Egg. 1 Spoon of Batter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

3 Thin Slices of Veal. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

3 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the mutton feet well, accord- 
ing to directions given, and boil and 
take out all the bones. Take a half 
cup of wet bread and squeeze well. 
Season well with salt and pepper and 
fry in a little butter and add a 
chopped egg. Stuff the feet with 
this, splitting down the length and 
sewing up to prevent the dressing 
escaping. Take a saucepan and put 
in one tablespoonful of lard and lay 
over it thin slices of veal, well sea- 
soned, and one bay leaf, one spng 
of thyme and geranium (minced very 
fine), three chopped carrots, and two 
onion's (chopped very fine). Po^J 
over this the juice of a lemon, let it 
simmer gently for about a half hour, 
turning the veal, that it may cook 
•well and be thoroughly penetrated 
by the juices. • Put the stuffed ™"t" 
ton feet on top, cover closely, and 
let all simmer for a half hour longer. 
Then unsew the mutton feet, lay 
them on the slices of veal, garnisn 
nicely and serve with a Sauce a. I'Es- 



99 



pagnole, Bauoe aux Tomates, a Sauce 
aux .pgnons, or Sauce a, la Proven- 
■gale. " The latter two are highly reo- 
ommeded. 

Slieep Tongues Smotliered. 

Langues de Mouton Braisfies. 

6 Tongues. 1 Large Onion, Out Fine, 

2 Carrots, Cut Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Minced Very Fine. 

f Flclsles. ^ of a Cup ot Capers. 

1 Pint of Boiling Water. 

2 Slices of Bacon. 

Scald and blanch the tongue re- 
moving the skins. Throw them into 
cold water. Dry and piqu6 or lard 
very delicately with larding needles. 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Slice the bacon into fine strips and 
lay in the bottom of a saucepan; 
place the lamb tongues over this. 
Place on top another fine layer of 
bacon in very fine strips. Add the 
minced carrots, onion, herbs, and salt 
and pepper again to taste. Let it 
simmer for about fifteen minutes and 
then moisten w^ith about a pint of 
boiling water or broth. Let it- cook 
over a slow fire about three hours. 
Then take out the tongues, place 
them on a hot dish, -strain the sauce 
through a sieve, set back on the 
stove a few seconds, and add one- 
quarter of a cup of capers, and three 
pickles, sliced fine. Stir well and 
let it boil up once. Povir over the 
tongues and serve. 

Lamb tongues are prepared in the 
same manner when braised or smoth- 
ered. 

Sheep Brains, 

Cervelles de Mouton. 

Vi Pound ot Brains. 

1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Grated Breadcrumbs. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

The brains of mutton are pre- 
pared in exactly the same manner as 
calf's brains and served accordingly. 
(See recipe). But the brains of mut- 
ton are far more delicate, and, con- 
sequently, considered a more rficher- 
ch6 dish. 

Plunge the brains into' cold water 
to disgorge them of all blood and re- 
move the fine skin and blood that 
surround them. Then blanch with 
scalding water. In five minutes 
take them out of the hot water and 
put them into a saucepan and cover 
with cold water. Add a tiny onion, 
sliced fine, parsley and a whole bay 
leaf. Let them simmer gently for 
five minutes. Then take from the 
,flre and drain. When cold cut into 
pieces of a square inch and dip In a 
batter or tomato sauce, and then in 
grated bread crumbs, patting gently. 
Drop into boiling lard and fry to 
a".solden brown. Take out and drain 
.off "grease, and serve, on a bed of 



fried parsley. A garnish of boiled 
green peas is also very pretty and' 
palatable. 

Sheep Brains, Brown Sauce, 

Cervelles de Mouton, au Beurre Noir. 

Prepare the brains in exactly the 
s'ame manner as indicated in the 
above recipe and serve with Brown 
Butter Sauce. .(See recipe.) 

Sheep Kidneys, 

Rognons en Brochettes. 

6 Kidneys. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Slice the kidneys very thin and 
wash well, then scald and wipe dry. 
Pass a skewer through each kidney, 
after seasoning well, and brush with 
melted butter. Place on a double 
broiler and cook for five minutes, 
allowing two and a half minutes to 
each side. Place on a hot dish and 
pour over melted butter and a little 
lemon . juice. Garnish nicely with 
parsley and serve hot. 

LAIUB, 

Agneau. 

Lamb is in season from April to 
September. Like very young veal, 
it is unwholesome and tasteless if 
eaten too young. A lamb should al- 
ways be two months old, else it will 
be what the Creoles call "une viande 
gSlaineuse," or a jelly meat not fit 
to eat and very difficult to manage. 
The best way to cook lamb is to 
roast it or bake it. The loin of 
the lamb is cut into 'chops; the 
brains, tongue, cutlets, tendons and 
feet are cooked in the same manner 
as those of sheep, and it would be 
superfluous to repeat the recipes. 
Stewed Lambs' Tongues, or 'Lang- 
ues d'Agneau SautS," served with a 
Sauce Tomate, or a Sauce a la Tar- 
tare, is an excellent entree, or lunch- 
eon dish. 

Roast Iiamh, Mint Sauce. 

Quartier d'Agneau Roti, Sauce 
Menthe. 

The Hind Quarter of a Lamb. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley to Garnish. Mint Sauce. 

This is the standing dish for the 
Easter dinner in New Orleans. Select 
a fine, fresh, white hind-quarter of 
■lamb. Boast in exactly the same 
manner as indicated In "Roast Leg 
of Mutton" (see recipe), only allow 
about twenty minutes to the pound 
in cooking. Serve with garnish of 
parsley and a Mint Sauce. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Roast Lamb is alw?iya,. served with 
fresh, young green peas and aspara- 
gjis tips.. 



100 



Roast Lamb ft la Bearnalse. 

Agreau Roti a, la Bearnaise. 

The Hind Quarter of a Lamb. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf. 

6 Minced Shallots. 

1 Tablespoonfal of Butter. 

1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Tie Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Select a fine, white hind-quarter of 
the Iamb; lard it in the same man- 
ner as griven for larding "Roast Filet 
of Beef." (See recipe.) Rub well 
with butter on top and sprinkle over 
thickly with the soft of bread crumbs, 
minced parsley, thyme, bay leaf, salt 
and pepper and minced shallots. Set 
In the stove and cover with a but- 
tered brown paper. Let it roast; al- 
lowing eighteen or twenty minutes 
to the pound, in a quick oven, and, 
when done, take off the paper 
sprinkle again lightly with grated 
bread crumbs; let it brown and set 
in a hot dish; sprinkle over with 
lemon juice; garnish the dish with 
sprigs of parsley and sliced lemon, 
and serve, carving in slices and plac- 
ing a quarter of a lemon on each 
plate. 

Filet of Lamb Roasted anil Lariljil. 

Filet d'Agneau Roti et Piqu6. 

A Filet of Lamb. 

Lard Sufficient to Lard Thoroughly. 

1 Small Onion. ' 1 Bay Loaf. 

4 Cloves, if desired. 

114 Tablespoonfnls of Butter. 

1 Tablcspoonful of Glace. (See recipe.) 

1 Glass of Madeira or Sherry ■V^•'iue. or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Trim the filet nicely, removing the 
oiitPr muscular skin. Lard the fllet 
well, using larding needles. The 
lard must be very thin, like a shoe- 
string. The larding is done by filling 
the needles with the lard and push- 
ing them through the fllet as far as 
they will go. If the needles are 
long enough they will come out on 
-the other side of the filet, leaving 
the lard within. Repeat this pro- 
cess all do"wn the center and along 
the sides of the fllet, about an inch 
apart, and have the rows neat and 
even. If you have not a larding 
needle, make incisions with a knife 
and push the lard in with your finger, 
but the filet is nev^r as juicy and ten- 
der, nor does it look so clean and 
even when baked. When well larded, 
dredge well with salt and pepper, 
rubbing this thoroughly into the beef. 
Cut up one small onion, one bay leaf, 
and mash four cloves, and place in 
the bottom of the baking pan. Lay 
the larded filet on this bed, the larded 
side being uppermost. Put small 
bits of buttpr equal to a half tea- 
spoonful on top, and bake in a quick 
oven thirty minutes. This dish is 



always eaten rare. To ascertain if 
sufficiently done, stick a fork into 
the filet; if the blood bubbles out, 
it Is ready to serve. The meat, when 
done, is always spongy and elastic to 
the touch. 

In the meantime, prepare the fol- 
lowing Brown Sauce: Take one ta- 
blcspoonful of butter and one ol 
Glace (see recipe under chapter 
"Sauces for Meats, Fish, etc.") and 
three of water, smoothly rubbed, and 
melt in a saucepan, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent burning. When 
brown, add one glass of Madeira or 
Sh-erry Wine and-a half -cup-Of water, . 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Pour over the fllet, which must be 
placed in a hot dish, and serve with 
fresh, young green peas. 

Fllet of Lamb ft la Bechamel. 

Filet d'Agneau t la Bechamel. 

A Filet of Lamb. 
A Sauce a la Bechamel. 
Roast the lamb as in the manner 
given, and prepare a "Sauce 3. la 
Bechamel." (See recipe.) Slice the 
lamb and pour over the sauce and 
serve. This is considered an excel- 
lent entrfie. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. 

Cotellettes d'Agneau Grillges. 

6 Lamb Chops. 
Butter, Salt and Pepper. 

Broil in exactly tlie same manner 
as Mutton Chops, only let them re- 
main a little longer on the griddle, 
until the chops are firm under pres- 
sure of a fork. 

Season the chops well with salt 
and pepper and brush with meltel 
butter and a few broad crumbs. Have 
the gridiron hot and place the chops 
•upon it. In a few seconds turn the 
chops and let the other sides cook. 
Place on a platter, butter thickly anJ 
teprinkle with chopped parsley ani 
serve very hot. 

Smothered Brea.st of Lamb. 

Poitrine d'Agneau Braisfie. 

Shoulder and Breast of a Lamb. 
2 ■Sprigs of Parsley. 
1 Carrot. 2 Onions. 

1 Clove of Garlic. % Can of Tomitoes. 

A Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 
Bread Crumbs. 
2 Tahlespoontuls of Butter. 
Pepper and Salt to Taste. 
I Pint of Water. 
Select nice, fresh breast and shoul- 
der of lamb. Have the butcher re- 
move all the bones; wash or wipe 
carefully with a damp towel. Take 
one cup of bread crumbs, which have 
been wet and squeezed, and season 
well with one grated onion and clove 
of garlic, and chopped parsley, thyme- 
and bay leaf, and spices to taste, 
put in a frying pan. with one table- 
Bpootiiui ol Butter, ^.nd fry about five- 



101 



minutes. Place this dressing into the 
open side ot the lamb, and roll it up 
in its own meat, and tie it securely 
with thin strips of twine that the 
fi— 'ssinsT may not escape in baking. 
Slice the carrot, onion and turnip 
»e.y nne, and fry in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a deep pan. When 
brown, add the lamb and cover and 
let it simmer for about fifteen min- 
utes. Then add the tomatoes and 
let them brown; then add just enough 
boiling water to cover the meat (one 
pint); set the pot back on the stove 
and let it simmer gently and stead- 
ily for about three hours, or accord- 
ing to the size of the roll. Serve 
with the vegetables dished around 
and with its' own gravy. 

Minced Lnmb. 

Agneau £minc6. 

2 Pounds of Cold Minced Lamb. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 

4 Ounces of Butter. % Pint ot Veal Stock. 

IVi Gills ot Cream. Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Place the butter in a frying pan; 
add one chopped onion and brown 
slightly; add the mushrooms, and 
season to taste. Then add the half 
pint ot veal broth, if you have it; 
it not, boiling water or milk, and let 
it simmer a few minutes; thicken 
with a tablespoonful of blended flour; 
add the minced lamb and a gill and 
a half of cream; let all simmer, 
stirring constantly; and when done, 
which will be in about ten minutes, 
take off the fire; add the yolks of 
two eggs, beaten, and stir constant- 
ly. Place in a hot dish, garnish with 
Crodtons (buttered) -and serve. This 
is a very nice breakfast dish from 
the left-over lamu. 

lCpl£n^niu of Lininb. 
Epigramme d'Agneau. 

2 Breasts of Lamb. 
1. Tablespoonful ot Salt. 
1 Teaspoonful ot Pepper. 

3 Tablfspoontnls of Hatter or Olire Oil. 
Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Take two breasts of Damb; tie 
them and put them to boil in soup 
stock for forty-five minutes. Then 
drain wfll and extract all the bones. 
.Press ihcm down with a heavy 
weight on top. When thoroughly 
cold, cut each breast into three tri- 
angular-shaped pieces, dip them in 
oliveL oil, or melted lard, or butter, 
and season with the salt and pepper. 
Roll each piece in fresh bread crumbs 
grated, and broil on a slow fire, al- 
lowing four minutes to each side. 
Serve with a pint of hot Macedoine 
or any garnish that may be desired, 
arranging the breast over the gar- 
nish. The epigram may be served 
a la Soubise with a hot Soubise 
sauce, or a la Chicoree with a hot 
chicory sauce, or a, la Louisianaise 
with a hot Madeira wine sauce, and 
garnish of fried sweet potatoes. 



Lnsnb en Blanquette. 

Blanquette d'Agneau. 

3 Pounds of Brisket of Lamb. 

1 Onion. 2 Carrots. 

^ Dozen Cloves. 1 Leek. 

1 Bouquet of Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 
% Pound of Butter. 2 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 

The Yolka of 2 Eggs. 
% Can of Mushrooms or Green Peas. 

The brisket of the lamb is best 
for this dish. Cut into pieces of two 
square inches. Put in a stew pot and 
cover with a half gallon of water, 
and add salt and pepper and two 
onions and one carrot, chopped fine. 
Let it boil till very tender. When it 
reaches this stage, take the meat out 
of the saucepan and keep the water 
in which it was boilea. Take anoth- 
er saucepan and put a tablespoonful 
of butter in it. and as it melts add 
a tablespoonful of flotir. Let it 
brown lightly, and add one i"nt of 
the water ,in which the, veal was 
broiled. Stir well, inakmg it very 
light, and not thick. Add one-half 
can of mushrooms, and iet the whole 
boil about fifteen minutes, so as to 
be very light. 'I'hen put in the veal, 
v,-hich is already cooked. Let it 
simmer for about fifteen minutes 
longer, and tal.-e off the fire and add 
the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, 
two tablespoonfuls of the gravy, and 
the juice of one lemon. Serve hot. 

Lamb's Brains, 

Cervelles d'Agneau. 

The recipes given for the prepara- 
tion of Sheep Brains may be fol- 
Jowed in cooking Lamb's Brains. 
Lamb Brains are a very delicate dish. 
The following recipe, Lamb's Brains 
a la Remoulade, however, is a fa- 
mous Creole dish: 

Lamb's Brains ft la Remoulade. 
Cervelles d'Agneau a la Remoulade. 

Lamb's Brains. 1 Pint of White Wine. 

2 Quarts of Water. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 

The Yolks of i Egss. 

2 Siallots. 1 Herb Bouquet. 6 Capers. 

3 Small Vinegar Pickles. 

1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

4 Tablespoonfuls ot Vinegar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Creole Mustard. 
% Tablespoonful of Chives. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Plunge the Lamb's Brains into cold 
water and let them stand for an hour, 
changing the water several times. 
Prepare in exactly the same manner 
indicated for the preparation of 
Bheep Brains. After removing from 
the water and taking off the skin, 
drain of all water. Have ready a 
saucepan of boiling water and sea- 
son it with salt and pepper and an 
herb bouquet of parsley, bay leaves 
and thyme. When the herbs begin 
to boil add a pint of white wine to 
the water, as it boils up again -^rop 



102 



in the brains and let them cook for 
ten minutes. Remove the herb bou- 
quet and strain the brains through 
a sieve. 

Place on a hot dish and serve with 
the foUcwing sauce: Chop the shal- 
lots very fine, mince the ga,rlic and 
mash the yolks of the eggs. Put the 
vinegar into a small saucepan and 
add the shallots, the garlic and let 
all boil till the vinegar is reduced 
about one-half. Then mash the yolks 
of eggs in the sweet oil and cut up 
the capers and add all to the vin- 
egar. Add the parsley and the vin- 
egar pickles chopped fine and let 
all come to a boil. Then add the 
chives and two teaspoonfuls of Cre- 
ole mustard. Mix well and pour all 
over the brains and send to the table 
very hot. 

liamb's Feet. 

Pieds d'Agneau. 

The various delightful ways that 
the Creoles have of serving Mutton 
Feet may be used in preparing 
Lamb's Feet, the latter especially 
making many delightful and rficher- 
chg entrees. We have "Pieds d'Ag- 
neau a, la Poulette," etc. ("See re- 
cipe for cooking Mutton Peet, "Pieds 
d'Agneau au Blanc," "Pieds d'Agneau 
a. la Bourgeoise," etc.) 

Lamb's Feet, Wliite Sauce. 

Pieds d'Agneau, Sauce Blanche. 

12 Lamb's Feet. 

1 Pint of Broth. Tbe Juice of 1 Lemon. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Clean the feet well, and, after boil- 
ing, take out all the bones, cut in 
little pieces of about two inches or 
less, season nicely and cook in a pint 
of their own water over a slow fire. 
Add the juice of a lemon, and then 
throw in the beaten yolk of an egg 
to bind nicely, and serve hot. 

Lamb's Feet & la Bourgeoise. 

Pieds d'Agneau a, la Bourgeoise. 

12 Lamb's Peet. 1 Pint of Broth. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablcspoouful of Flour. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Clean the feet well and boil in th§ 
manner above indicated. When the 
water is reduced, take out the feet. 



cut in pieces, taking out all the 
bones. Put back in the saucepan, 
add a tablespoonful of butter blend- 
ed well with a tablespoonful of flour. 
Stir well and add two sprigs of 
parsley, minced very fine, and the 
juice of one lemon. Let this sim- 
mer for ten minutes longer and serve 
hot. 

Broiled liamb Kidneys. 

Eognons d'Agneau Grillfies. 

6 Kidneys. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. Parsley to GarniBh. 

Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as in the recipe for broiling 
Sheep Kidneys, and serve with melt- 
ed butter and lemon juice and 
chopped parsley, thrown over. In 
all these recipes, where the skewer 
is used in broiling to keep the kid- 
neys from separating, the skewer 
must be drawn out before butter- 
ing and serving. 

SteTred Lamb Tongrues. 

Langues d'Agneau Sautfees. 

6 Tongues. 1 Onion. 

% of a Small Carrot, Cut Fine. 

% of a Small Turnip. Cut Fine. 

1 Pint of Broth or Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Bay Leaf. 2 Sprigs of Thyme anrl Panley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the tongues; wash well and 
boil in clear water for an hour and 
a half. Then throw them into cold 
water and remove the skins. Cut the 
vegetables fine, and put them with 
the butter into a saucepan. Add a 
pint of broth or water, and then add 
the finely-minced herbs. Add the 
tongues and let them simmer gently 
for two hours. Serve hot, with the 
gravy poured over. 

Lamb Tongrnes Wltb Tomato Snnce. 

Langues d'Agneau a. la Sauce Tomate. 

e Tongues. 1 Onion. 

1 Pint of Broth or Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
2 Sprigs .of Thyme. 
A Tomato Sauce. 

Cook the tongues as in the recipe 
given above, omitting, of course, the 
vegetables. When done, place the 
tongues on a hot dish, pour over a 
rich Tomato Sauce (see recipe) and 
serve. 



CPIAPTER XV. 



PORK. 



Du Uochon. 



The old Creoles, like their French 
ancestors, hold that every portion 
of the hog is good, from the head to 
the feet, and all portions are util- 
ized in the various dishes which are 
so delightfully prepared in New Or- 
leans. For roasting, the Creoles al- 
ways use the delicate "Cochon de 
Lait," or sucking pig, of not more 
nor less than four or five weeks old, 
when the pig is roasted whole; other- 
wise the best parts of the grown hog 
for roasting are the loin and the leg. 
Pork chops or cutlets are taken 
from the loin. Tliey are used as 
entries, as are also slices of cold 
ham; the kidneys, cooked in wine, 
and the tails braisfies, or smoth- 
ered. 

Pork must always be cooked well 
done, or else it w^ill be dangerous, 
unwholesome and Indigesible. It 
must .be roasted or fried. The Cre- 
oles will never eat a broiled pork 
chop. 



Roast liOln of Pork. 

Longe de Pore Rotie. 

A Loin of Pork. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley to Garnish. Apple Sauce. 

Score the loin in close lines across 
and down. The lines should be about 
a half inch apart. Dredge ■well with 
salt and pepper and place In the 
oven, letting it cook slowly and 
long, allowing at least twenty-five 
minutes to every pound, and basting 
every five minutes for the first half 
hour and every ten minutes thereaf- 
ter. Pork must always be well done. 
When cooked thoroughly, take out 
of the baking pan, put in a hot serv- 
ing dish, and garnish nicely with 
parsley. Serve with Apple Sauce and 
a little horseradish. (See recipe 
"Sauces for Meats," etc.) 



Roust Fork, 

Pore Roti. 

The leg and shoulder may bs 
roasted in the same manner as the 
loin, allowing from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes to a pound in cooking. 



Roast Fig Stuffed. 

Cochon de Lait Roti et Farcl. 

1 Pig, Four or Five WeeliS Old. 

3 Large Onions. 2 Cups of Btead Crumbs, 

3 Sprigs of- Cliopp.ed Paisley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

2 Ounces of 'Butter. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Powdered Sage. 

3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 
1 Herb Bouquet, 

In New Orleans the pig is always 
sold killed and cleaned by the butch- 
er. Wash the young pig well, clean- 
ing again, and scraping thorouglily 
and taking out all remaining hair 
from the ears and nostrils. Wasli 
again thoroughly in cold water, in- 
side and out, shaking the pig vig- 
orously, head downward. Then turn 
upwards and pour cold water over 
it. Wipe dry inside and out with a 
coarse towel, and then rub well in- 
side with salt and pepper and minced 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf. Pre- 
pare a dressing as follows: Wet tlie 
bread crumbs and squeeze thorough- 
ly. Then add the sprigs of minced 
parsley and hard-boiled eggs and the 
powdered sage. Mix •well. Season 
all highly with black pepper and salt 
using about a teaspoonful of salt 
and a half teaspoonful of black pep- 
per. Place two ounces of butter, 
which will be equal to two table- 
spoonfuls, in a frying pan on the 
stove, and, when it melts, add the 
minced onions. Let them brown, and 
then add the dressing, stirring well, 
and letting it fry for five minutes. 
Take off and stuff the pig and sew 
up the ' opening. Truss the fore 
legs forward and the hind feet for- 
ward, and close under the body. Wipe 
the pig carefully with a damp towel, 
and then place a corn cob in its 
mouth to keep it open. Rub the 
pig all over the outside with butter, 
dredging lightly with salt and pep- 
per. Place in a modreate oven, and 
bake steadily for two and a half 
or three hours, according to size and 
age. Baste frequently, and, when 
half done, rub again with butter un- 
til the pan Is saturated. Continue 
basting at intervals. When done, 
take out of the oven and place on a 
hot dish. Garnish the dish with 
parsley. Take the corncob out of 



104 



the mouth and place instead a nice, 
rosy apple. Serve very hot, with 
Apple Sauce. (See recipe "Sauces 
for Meats," etc.) 

Sweet potatoes are a nice vege- 
table to serve with roast pig. Boil 
a half dozen first and then peel care- 
fully and place them whole, about 
fifteen minutes before serving the 
pig in- the pan where it is roasting; 
let them soak in the gravy, brown 
nicely and serve on a separate plat- 
ter or as a. garnish. 

Roast Spare Ribs, 

Cotelettes de Pore Roti. 

Spare Ribs. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A GaiElsh of Parsley and Radish. 

Dredge the spare ribs lightly with 
salt and pepper, after having washed 
well and wiped dry with a coarse 
towel. Place them in the baking pan 
and dredge with butter; place them 
in the oven and cover with a piece 
of buttered paper. Allow twenty 
minutes to every pound in cooking. 
About twenty minutes before serving 
take oft the buttered paper, dredge 
again, with melted butter, and let 
it brown nicely. Serve with a gar- 
nish of parsley and radishes. 

If it is desired to stuff the spare 
ribs, have the ribs cracked, cross- 
wise, the entire length, in two places. 
Put a stuffing, as for roast pig, in 
the center, or a stuffing made of 
mashed potatoes and three hard- 
boiled eggs, mixed thoroughly. Close 
the ends of the ribs over this, tie 
we-11 and roast as for a roast pig. 
Serve with an Apple Sauce or a 
Sauce Piquante. (See recipes "Sauc- 
es for Meats," etc.) 

Fork Tenderloins. 

Filet de Pore Sautfi. 

4 Pork Tenderloins. 
A Tableapoonful of Lard. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Have the tenderloins cut thin and 
split lengthwise without separating 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Have ready a very hot frying pan, 
place a tablespoonful of butter or 
lard within and add the tenderloin. 
Turn every two minutes, not leaving 
them very long on either side at a 
time. Be careful to cook through 
and through, smothering over a low 
fire, and serve with Apple Sauce or 
Currant Jelly. (See recipes "Sauces 
for Meats," etc.) 

Fried Pork Cbops. 

.Cotelettes de Cochon a, la Poele. 

6 or 8 Pork Chop*. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the pork chops and season 

well with salt and pepper. Roll In 

grated bread crumbs and fry In boil- 



ing lard twenty-five minutes. This 
will be when they have reached a 
rich brown. Take out. place on a 
platter and serve with pickles or a 
Sauce aux Cornichons. (See recipe.) 
pigs' Feet. 
Pieds de Cochon. 

6 Pigs Feet. 2 Bay Leaves. 

3 Blades of Mace.' 1 Dozen Whole Clores. 

1 Whole Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Pint o£ Good Cider Vinegar. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Select young and tender pigs' feet. 
Clean and scrape well and soak In 
cold water several hours. Split and 
crack the feet in several places; put 
them in a stewpot; cover with cold 
water and let them simmer until 
tender. When done, lay in a crock. 
Boil the vinegar, mace, cloves and 
bay leaves and pepper pod together 
a few minutes. Season the feet with 
salt and pepper, and pour the spiced 
vinegar over while boiling hot. (3over 
the crock and set to cool. The feet 
will be ready for use in twenty-four 
hours. 

Pigs' Feet, Sauce Robert. 

Pieds de Cochon a. la Sauce Robert 

3 Pigs' Feet. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Olive OH. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

% Tablespoonful of Pepper. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. % Pint of Sauce Robert. 

Boil three good-sized Pigs' Feet In 

a salted water, and when tender, 

take out of the water and drain 

thoroughly. Split the feet in two 

and place in a dish and season well 

with salt and pepper. Then rub them 

with the olive oil or butter; roll the 

feet in grated bread crumbs and put 

them to broil, allowing four minutes 

to each side of the feet. Prepare a 

hot Sauce A, la Robert (see recipe), 

and pour this sauce in a warm dish. 

Lay the feet nicely over It and send 

to the table hot. 

Pigs' Feet, Plqnant Sance. 

Pieds de Cochon k la Sauce Piquante. 

Prepare In exactly the manner di- 
rected above, and, after broiling the 
feet, serve with a half pint of Sauce 
Piquante. (See recipe.) 

Pigs' Feet, Tomato Sance. 
Pieds de Cochon a, la Sauce Tomate. 

Boil and prepare the feet as in re- 
cipe for "Pigs' Feet, Sauce Robert" 
and serve with a half pint of hot To-, 
mato Sauce. 

Pig's Feet, Tartar Sance. 

Pieds de Cochon a, la Sauce Tartare. 
Prepare the feet as Indicated in 
the recipe for "Pig's Feet, Sauce Rob- 
ert," and serve with a half pint of 
Sauce a. la Tartare. (See recipe.) 



105 



Pig's Feet, St. Hubert Style. 

Pieds de Coohon a 1* St. Hubert. 

Prepare the feet as in the recipe for 
"Pig's Feet, Sauce Robert," and serve 
with a half pint of hot Piquant 
Sauce, to which has been added a 
teaspoonful of Creole mustard, di- 
luted. 

Stuffed Pig'fsi Feet & la Perlgueux. 

. . Fieds de Coclion ft la Perlgueux. . . 

3 Pigs' Feet. 2 Minced Truffles. 

% Glass of iladeii-a Wine. 

.1 Pound of Bonea Tuiiey Forcemeat. 

6 Pieces o£ Crepinette. 

1 Egg. 2 Ounces of Butter. 

Va Pint of Hot Pedgueux Sauce. 

Boil the Pig's Feet, and then split 
them in two; take out the boneg, 
lay the flesh on a dry, clean cloth 
and wipe well. Make a forcemeat 
of boned turkey (see recipe under 
chapter Stuffings for Fowls, etc.); 
add the truffles, which have been 
finely minced, and a half glass of 
Madeira or Sherry "Wine. Mix this 
well together. Crepinette is applied 
to a skin found in the stomach of 
the pig. Take six pieces of this cre- 
pinette, which you will have secured 
from the butcher; cut them the size 
of a man's hand and lay on a clean 
biscuit board; place on each piece 
of skin a portion of the forcemeat 
about the size of a hen's egg and 
flatten out well. Place one-half of 
a pig's foot on top of this farcie, 
and cover with another layer of the 
stufl^ng. On either side lay three thin 
slices of truffles. Wrap the- cre- 
pinettes up in some fanciful shape, 
such as an envelope or card case, and 
dip them separately in a well-beaten 
egg, and then in grated bread- 
crumbs. Put two tablespbonfuls of 
butter In a saucepan or deep frying 
pan, cover closely, and let the feet 
cook on a slow fire for twenty-flve 
minutes, allowing twelve minutes and 
a half to each side. Serve with a 
pint of hot Perigueux Sauce. (See 
recipe.) Place the sauce in a dish 
lay the feet neatly over it and send 
to the table hot. 

Stuffed Pig's Feet, Madeira Sauce. 

Pieds de Cochon a. la Sauce MadSre. 

Prepare the feet in exactly the 
same manner as indicated in the re- 
cipe given above, and serve with a 
pint of hot Madeira Sauce, Instead 
of the Sauce Perigueux. 

Hogshead Cheese, 

Fromage de Cochon. 

1 Hog's Hetfd. 1 Lemon. 

1 Glass of Slierry or Madeira. 2 Onions. 

1 Slice of Ham. 

Thyme, Bay Leaf, Spices. 

Boil the whole of the hog's head, I 



which has been well cleaned and 
scraped. Add four teaspoonfuls of 
salt, and a lemon cut Jn half. After 
four hours, when the head will have 
become very tender, take out of the 
water and set to cool. Then skin 
the meat, from the head. Preserve 
the water'in which it has been boiled. 
Cut up the entire head, ears and 
tongue and two of the feet, if you 
have boiled them, too, into pieces of 
about one inch in length. Take two 
large onions and chop them very fine. 
Put a tablespoonful of lard and the 
onions into a pot. Don't let them 
brown, but slightly smother. Season 
well with minced thyme, three mashed 
cloves, a dash of red pepper (Poivre 
Rouge). Add a teaspoonful of water 
taken from the reserve in which the 
head was boiled. Let this simmer 
gently; then add one pint of the wa- 
ter, the peel of a large lemon, cut 
fine, and one glass of Sherry or Ma- 
deira. Add hot pepper to taste, sea- 
soning highly. Boil well. Then add 
the head and a slice of ham, cut into 
pieces of about one inch long and a 
half inch wide. Season to taste, and 
add five powdered allspice, one blade 
of chopped mace and three mashed 
cloves. Let it boil for a half hour 
longer, till it comes to the right con- 
sistency. When cooked, fill a bowl 
with the cheese and put a close-fit- 
ting dish pn top, and then place 
a piece of plank over this and set 
£t big weight of about fifteen pounds 
or three or four flatirons on top. 
When the cheese cbols, which will 
be in about five or six hours, turn 
out of the bowl. It will have taken 
the shape of the bowl and become 
a fine head of cheese^ ready to be 
served. This is the Creole's way of 
making hogshead cheese, and It can- 
not be improved upon. 
Salt Meat. 
Viande SalSe. 
Salt pork enters so largely into 
cooking that it will be unnecessary 
to devote special attention to it here. 
It is used in cooking cabbage in 
pork and beans' — a most excellent 
dish for children — and with nearly 
all green herbs and vegetables it 
serves as a delightful flavor. In the 
the chapter on vegetables, wherever 
it is advisable to use salt or pickled 
pork, this subject will be treated. 

Pickled Pork. 

Petit Sale. 

Coarse Salt Sufficient to malse a Brine. 

12 Bay Leaves. 2 Dozen Onions. 

23 Pounds of Pork. 1 Ounce of Saltpetre. 

12, Cloves. 6 Allspice. 

Pork should be pickled about 

twenty hours after killing. It is 

pickled always in sufficient quantity 

to last for some time, for, if proper 



106 



care is taken, it will keep one year 
after pickling; but it may also be 
pickled in smaller quantities, of three 
or four pounds at a time, reducing 
other ingredients in the recipe ac- 
cording to quantity of pork used. 
To twenty-five pounds of pork, allow 
one ounce of saltpetre. Pulverize 
thoroughly and mix with a sufficient 
quantity of salt to thoroughly salt 
the pork. Cut the pork into pieces 
of about two pounds, and slash each 
piece through the skin, and then rub 
thoroughly with the salt and salt- 
petre mixture till the meat is thor- 
oughly penetrated through and 
through. Mash the cloves very fine 
and ground the allspice. Chop the 
onions. Take a small barrel and 
place at the bottom a layer of salt, 
then a layer of coarsely chopped on- 
ions, and sprinkle over this a layer 
of the spices and minced bay leaves. 
Place on this a layer of the pork; 
pack tightly; then place above this 
a layer of the salt and seasonings 
and continue with alternate layers 
of pork and seasonings till all the 
pork is used up. Conclude with a 
layer of the minced herbs and spices 
and have a layer of salt on top. 
Cover the preparation with a board 
on which a heavy weight must be 
placed to press down the meat. It 
will be ready for use in about ten or 
twelve days. 

HAM. 
jambon. 

Ham is one of the most useful ar- 
ticles of supply that can be kept in 
any household. The Creoles gene- 
rally keep a nicely boiled ham on 
hand. In case of unexpected com- 
pany for lunch or supper, the ham 
is always ready and sure to be ap- 
petizing. It forms combinations in 
many dishes, and is in itself a de- 
lightful breakfast dish and dinner 
entree. 

Boiled Ham. 
Jambon Bouilli. 

A Ham. 2 Blades of Mace. 

1 Dozen Cloves. 4 Bay Leaves. 

Black Pepper and Paisley to Garnish. 

Wash the ham well in cold water, 
scraping oft all portions of mold or 
salt. Have a large boiler of water 
on the stove; or, better still, the 
furnace. Throw in two blades of 
mace, a dozen cloves and three or 
four bay leaves. Put the ham in 
the water and let the fire be slow. 
allowing the water to heat gradu- 
ally. Do not permit it to come to a 
good boil for two hours at least, and 
be careful to skim carefully, so that 
all rejected substances may not im- 
pregnate the ham. Keep it simmer- 
ing gently, allowing twenty minutes 
to every pound. When done, let the 



ham cool in its own liquor, and then 
put the ham on a board, cover with 
another board, and lay a weight over. 
Leave under weight several hours. 
This will enable you to cut the ham 
in thin slices after removing the 
weight. Then carefully remove the 
skin without taking off the fat. 
Sprinkle it in patches with black 
pepper and ornament the shank bone 
with quilled paper, or a paper frill. 
Serve it cold with a garnish of par- 
sley. Cold boiled ham should be 
sliced very thin and served with 
pickles and mustard. 

Fried Hnm. 

Jambon Frit. 

8 Thin Slices of Ham. 

Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Slice the ham thin. Heat the fry- 
ing pan very hot. Lay in the ham 
in its own fat and fry over a quick 
fire. The Creoles serve eggs nicely 
fried, with ham. Allow an egg to 
every slice of ham. After taking 
the ham out of the pan, drop in the 
eggs. If you do not like eggs fried 
on both sides (many prefer them so), 
baste the eggs with the hot grease, 
and be sure to cook the yolks whole. 
When they are well set, without be- 
ing hard, take the eggs out and lay 
one on each slice of ham. Garnish 
with parsley. Sprinkle the eggs 
with salt and pepper very lightly and 
serve. This is a very popular Creole 
brealkfast dish. 

If eggs are not served with the 
fried ham, and a gravy is desired, 
malce one as follows: Take one ta- 
bleSpoonful of flour and add to the 
remaining fat in the pan. Mix weil 
until smooth. Add a half pint Of 
milk and stir until it boils; throw in 
a dash of black pepper, pour over 
the ham and send to the table hot. 

Broiled Ham. 

Jambon Grille. 
6 or 8 Thin Slices of Boiled Ham. 
6 or 8 Slices of Buttered Toast. 
Always use boiled hata for broiling. 
Slice it about a half inch thick, ac- 
cording to the number to be served, 
and trim off the rough edges. Have 
the broiler very hot, lay the slices of 
ham upon it and brown well. Serve 
with buttered toast. 

Broiled Ham With Cnenmber Gar- 
nisli. 

Jambon Grille aux Concombres. 

G or 8 Slices of Boiled Ham. 

Pepper. Cucumbers. 

Cut thin as many slices of ham as 

desired and broil evenly over hot 

coals. When well brown butter, add 

pepper, sprinkling, and serve with 

slices of cucumber that have been 



107 



steeped in salted vinegar several 
hours ranged around it. 

Ham Croquettes. 

Croquettes de Jambon. 

2 Cups of Finely Chopped Boiled Bam. 

2 Cups ot Mashed Potatoes. 

The Yolks ot 3 Eggs. 
2 Tahlespoonfuls of Cream. 
2 Tablespoonfula of Butter. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 
Chop the ham fine and add to the 
mashed potatoes. Then add the 
cream and butter and the yolks of 
two eggs, beaten well. Beat all to- 
gether until smooth, then add a dash 
of Cayenne. Mold the ham Into cyl- 
inder shapes of about a finger in 
length and roll in the beaten egs? 
that remains. Then roll In bread 
crumbs grated and fry In the boiling 
fat. 

Ham puffs are made in the same 
way, only the potatoes are omitted, 
and a stiff batter is used instead, 
made of one pint of flour and one of 
water, three eggs and four ounces of 
finely chopped ham. The ham is 
placed in the batter and fried In 
boiling lard to a golden brown. 

Ham SonHie. 

SoufSe de Jambon. 

1 Cup ot Minced Ham. 

3 -Eggs, Beaten With he Whites and Tolks 

Separate. 

1 Teaspoonful of Finely Chopped Parsley. 

Pepper to Taste. 
Mix together the chopped parsley, 
ham and yolks of eggs and a dash of 
Cayenne pepper. Beat all very hard 
till it becomes light. Then add the 
whites of the eggs, which have been 
beaten to a froth. Beat together 
sufficiently to mix well. Pill a dish 
and bake in an oven for eight or ten 
minutes and serve with a Cream 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Boiled Bacon. 

Petit Sale BoullU. 
Proceed in e?cactly the same man- 
ner as for boiled ham. 

Filed Bacon. 

Petit Sale Frit. 

Cut into very thin slices, put In 
the frying pan and fry to a nice 
golden brown. This is a fine break- 
fast dish. 

Creole Sansage. 
Saucisses a la Crgole. 

It has been said by visitors to New 
Orleans that the Creoles excell all 
other cooks in preparing appetizing 
sausages.. From the old Creole ne- 
gresses, who go about the streets in 
the early morning crying out "Belles 
Saucisses!" "Belle Chaurice!" to the 



"Boudins" and "Saucissons" so tempt- 
ingly prepared by the Creole butchers 
in the French Market, the Creole sau- 
sage enters largely into domestic 
cookery and forms a delightful flav- 
or for many dainty dishes, especially 
of the vegetable order, while in the 
preparation of the famous "Jamba- 
laya," the "Chaurice," is one of the 
most necessary and indispensible in- 
gredients. Though sausages of any 
of these varieties may be bought in 
the French Market and other stalls 
daily, many of the ancient house- 
wives and cooks prefer to prepare 
their own sausages, and the follow- 
ing are the carefully compiled re- 
cipes. 

In making sausage, the Creole 
housewife generally prepares a suf- 
ficient Quantity to last several days. 

Chaurice. 

i Pounds of Lean, Fresh Pork. 

2 Pounds of Fat Fresh Pork. 
-2 Large Onions, Minced Very Fine. 
1 Clove of Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne Pepper and Chill 

Pepper (very hot.) 

1 Teaspoonful of Red Pepper. 

3 Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 

2 Teaspoonfuls Finely Ground Black Pepper. 

1 Sprig of Thyme, Well Minced. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley, Finely Minced. 

2 Bay Leaves, Chopped or Minced Very Fine. 

% Teaspoonful of iiUsplce, Very Fine. 

Hash the pork as fine as possible — 
fat and lean — and mix together. 
. Then season highly With the salt and 
black pepper and Cayenne, Chili and 
red pepper (pimento). This high 
seasoning distinguishes the Creole 
sausage from all others. Chaurice 
must be seasoned very hot, so do not 
fear to have too much red pepper. 
Mince the onion and garlic as fine as 
possible, then add to the Chaurice. 
Mince the herbs as fine as possible, 
and add, and then mix the finely 
ground spices thoroughly with the 
Chaurice. Hash all together, and 
when well mixed, take the casings 
(the Creoles always use the entrails 
of the sheep for this purpose) that 
have been well cleaned by the butch- 
er. Scald them and wash thorough- 
ly again. Dry them and fill with the 
mixture, tying them In the lengths 
you desire. 

Chaurice Is fried In boiling lard 
for breakfast, always having suf- 
ficient to have the sausage swim in 
It, and served, after draining of all 
grease, on a hot dish with minced 
parsley thrown over as a garnish. 
It is used most extensively in making 
"Jambalaya," and a few Chaurice 
thrown into the pot of boiling cab- 
bage or beans add greatly to the 
flavor. This is a distinctive Creole 
sausage and the very nicest and most 
highly flavored that can be eaten. 



108 



Cbiinrice With Purfie of Potatoes. 

Chaurice a. la Purfie de Pomines de 

Terre. 

2 Pounds of Chaurice. 

4 Irish Potatoes. 1 Egg, Well Beaten. 

Prick the sausages and lay them 

in the bottom of a pan. Make a soft 

Puree of Potatoes (see recipe) and 

pour this over the sausage. Then 

spread a beaten egg very evenly on 

top, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and 

place in the oven and let it bake a 

half hour. This is a nice breakfast 

or luncheon dish. 

Cliaurlce With Creole Sauce. 

Chaurice, Sauce &, la CrSole. 

2 Pounds of Chaurice (about 6 to a pound.) 

1 Clove of Minced Garlic. 

% Can of tomatoes. 1 Teaspoonful of Salt, 

1 Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

1 Large Onion. ^2 Spoon of Lard. 
Place a half teaspoonful of lard 

in the frying pan or stewpan, and 
when it heats, add the chopped on- 
ion. Let this brown slightly and tlien 
add the minced garlic. Then add the 
half can of tomatoes. As this 
/browns, put in the sausage which 
you have pricked gently. Cover and 
let them simmer for about five min- 
utes, then add the seasonings to 
taste. Add about a half cup of boil- 
ing water. Cover well and let all 
simmer for twenty minutes longer. 
This is very nice for breakfast. 

Saucisses. 

Saucisses, unlike Chaurice, are 
made from pork and beef mixed. 
Take ■" 

2 Pounds of Lean Beef. 

2 Pounds of Lean Pork. 

1 Pound of Lean Veal. 1 Pound of Fat Pork. 

2 Large Onions Minced Very Fine. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne Pepper. 

1 Tablespoonful Black Pepper. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Salt. 

3 Bay Leaves, Minced Very Fine. 

% Spoon Each of Ground Cloves, Mace, 

Allspice and Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Teaspoonful Each of Minced Thyme and 

Sweet Marjoram. 
Chop and hash the meat (fat and 
lean) very fine, mincing it, and then 
season highly with salt and pepper 
and Cayenne, mixing well. Add the 
minced onion and garlic, mix well, 
and then add the finely minced herbs 
and spices. Mix thoroughly and fill 
the casings which you have gotten 
from the butcher and washed again 
thoroughly. Fill them with the mix- 
ture, in lengths of about two feet 
or one foot and a half, stufHng tight- 
Ij'. Tie at both ends and let ' them 
stand overnight In a deep brine. It 
used for breakfast, take out as much 
as desired, wipe dry and cut into 
slices aT'd fry, or fry the sausage, 
the whole length. In boiling lard, and 



then slice nicely. Garnish with 
chopped parsley and serve. 

Saaclssona. 

Sauoissons are sausage made from 
the lean, fine flesh of the pork and 
the lilet of beef. Take 

2 Pounds of Fresh Pork, Very Lean. 

1 Pound of Fat. 

2 Pounds of Filet of Beef. 1 Large Onloa. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne Pepper. 

1 Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

3 Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 

1 Bay Leaf, Chopped Fine. 

Vi, Teaspoonful Each of Ground Allspice, 

Cloves, and ^ Nutmeg. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Fine Herbs. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

Mince and hash the meat very fine, 
mixing the beef and pork and fat. 
Then season highly with the Cayenne, 
salt and pepper, mixing thoroughly. 
Season next with the minced onion 
and garlic; mix well, and then with 
the minced herbs and spices, mixing 
all thoroughly. Fill the casings, 
which are never very large for Sau- 
oissons. Tie them in sausages of 
about a finger in length, or three 
inches, and they are ready to be 
cooked. Saucissons are always fried 
in boiling lard' and served whole, 
placing several on each plate. 

Boudlns, 

Boudins are blood sausages and are 
much affected by the Creoles. Take 

1 Pound of Hog or Beef Blood (1 pint.) 

1^ Pound of Hog Fat. 2 Onions. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Season Hlglily. 

% Clove of Garlic. 

Mince the onions fine and fry them 
slightly in a small piece of the hog 
fat. Add the minced garlic. Hash 
and mince the remaining fat very 
fine, and mix it thoroughly with the 
beef blood. Mix the onions, and then 
season highly, adding of allspice, 
mace, clove and nutmeg a half tea- 
spoonful each, finely ground, and a 
half teaspoonful each of fine herbs. 
When all mixed, take the prepared 
casings or entrails and fill with the 
mixture, being careful to tie the sau- 
sage casing at the further end be- 
fore attempting to fill. Then tie the 
other end, making the sausage into 
strings of about two feet. Wash them 
thoroughly on the outside after fill- 
ing, and then tie again In spaces of 
three inches or less in length, 
being careful not to make too long. 
Place them to cook in a pot of tepid 
water, never letting them boil, as 
that would curdle the blood. Let 
them remain on the slow fire till you 
can pick the sausage with a needle 
and no blood will exude. Then take 
them out, let them dry and cool. 

Boudins are always fried in boil- 
ing lard. Some broil them, however. 



109 



Bondln Ulunc. 

1 Pound of the White Meat of Fowl 
(left over.) 

1 Pound of Lean Pork. 1 Pound of Fat Pork. 

1 Pint of Cream. 

W Cup of Soft of Bread. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Vi Teaspoon of Ground Spices. 

Va CloTe of Garlic. 

1 Onion. 1 Teaspoonful Caj-enne. 

Salt and Pepper, 1 Teaspoonful Each. 

Cut the meat and mince. Season 
highly with the salt and pepper and 
Cayenne. Add the minced onion ami 
garlic. Mix well with half a cup of 
the soft of bread, wet and squeezed 
well. Cook all for about fifteen 
minutes in one pint of cream. When 
reduced take off the stove, add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, stir well 
and cool. Pill the prepared entrails 
and tie either end, and place them 
In a pot containi'ng half milk and 
half water. Boil them for about 
twenty minutes and then prick gent- 
ly, place in buttered papers and broil 
gently. The left-over of rabbit, 
chicken, turkey, partridge and other 
birds may be prepared in this man- 
ner, as also the left-over of craw- 
fish or crabs. This is a, Creole hors 
d'oeuvre. 

Chitterlings. 

Andouilles. 

2 Pounds of Fat Port. 2 Pounds of Lean Pork 

1 Pound of Inner Lining of Stomach of Hog. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 3 Bay Leaves. 2 Large 

Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Salt and Pepper. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Chill Pepper. 



Ml Teaspoonful Each of llace, Cloves and 

Allspice, ground flue. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Minced Tkyme, 

Sweet Marjoram and Parsley. 

Select, the largest intestines of the 
hog, wash clean, disgorge and thor- 
oughly cleanse, and let soak for twen- 
ty four hours in fresh water, chang- 
ing the water frequently. Then 
drain and dry well. Cut them into 
threadlike pieces of about one inch 
in length, and hash the pork, lean 
and fat, together; mix thoroughly 
with the threads of intestines or In- 
ner stomach of the hog, and season 
highly with the salt, pepper and Ca- 
yenne and Chili pepper. Mince the 
onion and garlic and herbs as fine as 
possible and add to the meat. Add 
the ground spices, and mix and hash 
all together very fine. Take six or 
eight of the largs Intestines that 
have been thoroughly soaked and dis- 
gorged and fill these casings with 
the preparation, after scalding and 
drying the casings ^thoroughly. Tie 
into the desired lengths and use as 
desired. This is a very fat sausage 
and entirely too rich for delicate 
stomachs. When tied into large sau- 
sages about the size of the hand they 
are called "Andouilles." When tied 
into small sausages they are styled 
"Andouillettes." The latter are the 
more delicate. This sausage is gen- 
erally served with mashed potatoes, 
a puree of peas-, or lentils. The chit- 
terlings are first boiled in an aro- 
matic water, with an herb bouquet, 
or in milk; they are then broiled, or 
baked in the oven for eight or ten 
minutes. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



POULTRY. 



De la Volaille. 



Poultry of all kinds, especially 
chicken, furnishes the good cook with 
an infinite variety of delightful dish- 
es, which are, besides dishes that may 
grace the table of the people from 
the simple farmer or the Creole in 
his humble home, to the rich banker 
who can afford to serve them with 
truffles and mushrooms. 

Roast chidk.en, roast turkey, roast 
goose, roast duck are welcome dishes 



on every table. The entries that are 
made from poultry' are various, such 
as Turkey Daube, Fricassees of 
Chicken, with truffles, mushrooms, 
green peas, rice; Ragouts of Ducks, 
Chapons au Gros Sel, Poulardes a. la 
Sauce Tartare, Poulet Saut# a. la Cre- 
ole, all manner of croquettes and 
salads, and gdose entire a. la Chipo- 
lata. Full-grown poultry always has 
the best flavor. 



110 



Guides In Buying Poultry. 

In purchasing turkeys, if Intended 
to roast, select always a young gob- 
bler or a young turkey hen, the lat- 
ter being far preferable, as the meat 
is more tender and delicate. The 
turkey should always be fat, the 
flesh firm, the breast broad and flat 
and the skin fine and white. Turkey 
gobblers and hens that are not so 
young, may be cooked nicely in daube 
but roasting is the proper way to 
cook a turkey if you wish to bring 
out its flavor. The left-over turkey 
is always used by the Creoles in mak- 
ing Turkey Gumbo. (See recipe 
Gumbo Dlnde.) The shorter the neck 
the better will be the turkey. An 
old turkey hen always has purplish 
legs, and the gobbler, if young, will, 
have black legs and small spurs. But 
a gobbler is always larger than a 
turkey hen of the same age. In an 
old. gobbler the flesh is tough and 
strong ia fiber. An old gobbler can 
easily be told by its long spurs and 
purplish legs. In general, old turk- 
eys have long hairs, and the flesh is 
always purplish where it shows un- 
der the skin on the legs or back. 
These are infallible guides. In fol- 
lowing them the young housekeeper 
need never be imposed upon. About 
the month of March turkeys begin 
to deterioate in quality. 

Purchase chickens that are fat, 
with firm, fresh-looking flesh, fine 
skin and yellowish in color. A 
young rooster has small spurs, an 
old rooster large ones, and both the 
young rooster and young hen have 
smooth, soft legs and tender ^kln. 
The breast is soft and pliable and 
full, the feet moist and limbeT, the 
eyes full and bright. Old cfllckens 
are known by the opposite character- 
istics. 

A capon is alw^ays larger and fat- 
ter than the ordinary fowl, but it 
also makes far more delicate eating. 
For this reason the capon is always 
given the preference at fashionable 
feasts. A duck, to be good, must 
be young and fat, with light semi- 
transparent soft breastbone; the 
breast should be plump as ■well as 
fat. In the young duck one always 
finds that the under bill will break 
easily, and that the lower part of 
the legs and the webbing of the feet 
are soft and fresh colored, and that 
the windpipe breaks when pressed 
between the fingers. Ducks are best 
in fall and winter. 

Geese live to be very old. The 
greatest care must, therefore, be tak- 
en Ih buying a goose. Look for the 
same characteristics as in the young 
duck. A goose, to be fit for eating, 
must never be over three years old. 
The year-old goose is always the 
best. To positively determine the 
young goose examine the legs. They 
will be covered with a soft down 



and the flesh will be soft and yel- 
low. As the goose grows older the 
legs turn reddish or purplish In col- 
or, like those of the turkey. 

Guinea fowl, when young, make 
most delicious dishes either in Fric- 
assee or as Fintarde Saut£e. - The 
French discovered the value of the y 
young guinea fowl and the Creoles 
have improved on their methods of 
preparing it, making most delicious 
dishes a, la Cr€oIe. 

Young .pigeon or squab are pre- 
pared in a variety of deligliiful ways 
by Creole culsiniSres, gjld are wel- 
come dishes at thernost r6cherch6 
feast, especially when prepared as 
Pigeons a. la C^apaudine, in which 
the pigeon is .:ro arranged as to rep- 
resent a young frog. The young pig. 
eon is easily known by the tender 
touch. 

HoTv to Clean Poultry. 

Cut off the head at the joint. To 
avoid needless pain, hang the tiirkey 
or chicken, or other fowl, up by the 
feet. The blood will then flow more 
freely and the fowl will die easier 
and quicker. 

Sca,lding is largely a matter of op- 
tion with-, the qook. An old fowl 
win pick much more easily and it 
does not injure the meat to scald 
an old turkey or chicken, but geese 
should never be, scalded nor a turkey 
that you intend to bone. Toung 
spring chickens are completely 
spoiled by having the flesh scalded 
or blanched. As soon as the fowl is 
dead pick off the feathers with a 
quick, steady jerk towards the tall. 
If you pull backwards you will be 
apt to tear the skin. After picking 
well and taking out all of the pin 
feathers, singe the fowl by putting 
paper in the fire and letting it blaze 
up. Pass the fowl backward and 
forward over the blaze and over and 
around, being careful not to burn the 
skin. 

Then proceed to clean the fowl, 
cutting off first the feet at the first 
joint, detaching the skin at the neck 
without breaking it, and drawing but 
whole the craw of the fowl. Cut oft 
the bleeding end of the neck and 
draw the skin over. 

Make a slit under the rump of the 
chicken Just large enough for you to 
draw out easily all the internal or- 
gans, .beinjg.,careful to feel your way, 
and very, very careful, indeed, not 
to break the gallbag' or any of the 
entrails. The contents of either ren- 
der the chicken most unpalatable if 
spilled over it. In this case be care- 
ful to wash the chicken immediately 
and thoroughly before the gall has 
time to penetrate far. After clean- 
nig out the chicken, rinse It inside 
and out and set' It in a cool place. 
Proceed to clean She giblets, cut the 
outer coat of the> gizzard and- draw 



Ill 



off unbroken the inner lining, con- 
taining' the' sand. Cat the gallbagr 
from the liver, being very careful not 
to break it; if you do, throw the liver 
away. Cut open the heart and remove 
all clotted blood. 

Geese, pigeons and birds of all 
kinds are cleaned in the same man- 
ner. 

Poultry should never be cooked un- 
til five or six hours after it has been 
killed, but it should be picked and 
drawn 3s soon as possible. Soda, 
being cl^%nsing, acts as a corrective 
and destroys that unpleasant taste 
which is frequently experienced in 
dressing when a fowl has been killed 
some time and allowed to remain 
with the intestines undrawn, as often 
happens with fowl or game purchased 
in city markets or stores. The flavor 
diffuses its£lf_ through the meat and 
renders it distasteful. In this case, 
after taking out the intestines, rinse 
the fowl inside and out in several 
waters. Then add a teaspoonful of 
baking soda to a quart of water and 
rinse again thoroughly. This pro- 
cess will neutralize all sourness and 
unpleasant taste. 

Having prepared your fowl, cook 
according to any of the following di- 
rections: 

TURKEY. 

Dfnde. 

The turkey hen is called "dinde," 
the turkey gobbler "dindon." The 
preference in eating, Is <ftlways given 
to the "dinde," as the <Mindons" never 
make quite such excelljent dishes. 

Turkey may be roasfed, stewed or 
made into gumbo. Only a very old 
and lean turkey is ever stewed. It is 
utilized in this way as a home dish, 
never on the company table. The 
boned turkey is the triumph of the 
New Orleans cuisine when serving 
cold turkey. No great reception or 
buffet luncheon is complete without 
it. It is the standing dish on New 
rear's day, when the Creole ladies 
rec3ive their gentlemen friends, and, 
on occasions of marriages in the 
family, every father will insist that 
there shall be a boned turkey for the 
wedding feast. 

Roast Turkey. 

Dinde Botie. 

1 Turkey. 2 TaWesroonfuls of Butter, Salt 

and Pepper to Taste. 

Dressing According to Taste, 

A hen turkey is always best for 
roasting. Clean amT prepare the 
turkey according to the directions 
given. Make a nice stuffing either 
of oysters, egg, truffles or chestnuts 
(see Dressings for Fowls.) Bub the 
turkey well with salt and pepper in- 
side and out, and then rub the inside 
with butter, using about a half ta- 
blespoonful. Stuff first the space 
from which yqu took out the craw 



and then sew up the slit in the skin, 
fastening the skin by a pteee of 
thread tied around the neck or fold- 
ing it over and fastening with a 
small skewer. Then stuff the body 
of the turkey. Push the legs under 
the skin near the rumpp cross them 
and fasten them with a small skewer 
or tie with a piece of twine. Turn 
the wings back, under the body of 
the fowl. Bub the turkey all over 
with butter or lard, and place in 
the baking pan that has been 
greased lightly. Bake the turkey In 
a quick oven, allowing about fifteen 
minutes to every pound. Baste every 
ten minutes or so with its own drip- 
pings. When done, remove the twine 
and the skewer and place on a hot 
dish, garnished nicely with parsley, 
and serve. The turkey breast should 
always be carved in delicate slices. 
In making the dressing of any 
kind, always take up the liver and 
heart, which you have seasoned well 
and minced very fine, and add to the 
turkey, dressing and mixing thor- 
oughly. 

Roast Turkey With Truffles. 

Dinde Truff6e Botie. 

1 Fine Young Hen Turkey. 

1 Pound of Lean Ham, Cut into Dice. 

2 Pounds of Truffles. % Nutmeg. 

% of a Teaspoonful of Pepper. 

1 Bay Leaf, Minced Fine. 

Clean and prepare the turkey for 
roasting as directed in the above re- 
cipe. Put a saucepan on the fire and 
put in the ham cu;t into dice. When 
hot add two pounds of the very best 
truffles and the grated nutmeg, the 
pepper and a minced bay leaf. Stir 
over the fire for about fifteen njin- 
utes. Then take off and let cpol. 
When it is cold stuff the place at 
the neck of the turkey whence you 
take the craTV, and sew up and ar- 
range as indicated in the directions 
for dressing a turkey. Stuff the body 
of the turkey with the remainder of 
the truffles and sew it up and truss 
it. Set it in the oven and roast 
according to the above recipe, serv- 
ing with a Sauce aux Truffles. This 
is a very expensive dish. 

Roast Turkey liVlth IMushrooins. 

Dinde Botie Farcie aux Chamingnons. 
Proceed in the above manner, sub- 
stituting mushrooms instead. 

Turkey With Chestnuts or Oysters. 

Dinde Botie Farcie aux Marrons~ou 
aux Hultres. 

Prepare the turkey In the manner 
indicated in "Boast Turkey;" stuff 
according to taste with either a 
Chestnut or Oyster Dressing (see re- 
cipes under chapter "Stuffings and 
Dressings for Poultry, Game, etc.") 
and cook as in recipe for "Boast Tur- 
key." Chestnut and OySter Stuffings 



112 



are favorite Creole dressings for tur- 
keys. 

Turkey en Daube. 

Dinde en Daube. 

1 Large' Turkey. 

1 Bunch Each of Parsley, Thyme and Small 

Celery Leaves. 

Large Slice o£ Salt Pork. 

2 Onions end 2 Carrots, Sliced. 

10 Cloves. % Calfs Foot. 

1 Clove of Garlic. Bouquet of Sweet Herbs. 

VA Pints of Broth or Boiling Water. 

2 Spoonfuls of Brar.uy. 

1 Pint of White Wine. 

Clean and prepare the turkey as 
In the above directions, then stuff 
either with egg dressing or oyster 
stuffing. Rub well with salt and 
pepper. Place at the bottom of a 
deep pot slender strips of salt pork 
and half of a calf's foot, well pre- 
pared. Place on top lOf this the 
slices of onions, carrots, fine herbs, 
minced nicely; garlic, minced, cel- 
ery, parsley, etc., and lay the turkey 
on this bed. Pour over it one pint 
of white wine and two tablespoonfuls 
of brandy, and one pint and a half 
of good broth or boiling water. Sea- 
son well to taste and cover tightly. 
Set on the stove to simmer very 
slowly for at least Ave hours if the 
turkey is old. Turn it once very 
carefully when half done cooking. 
After five hours, lift the turkey out 
of the sauce, place on a hot dish. 
Strain the sauce through a sieve, and 
if the turkey is served at once, serve 
hot in a separate dish. If not, pour 
it over the turkey and set it away to 
cool. It will become quite jellied 
and makes an excellent luncheon 
dish. 

Boned Turkey. 
Gelatine TrufE6e a, la GelSe. 

1 Young Turkey Hen. 
2 Pounds of Young Veal. 

1 Pound of Pat Fresh Pork 

1 Pound of Lean Fresh Pork. 

Yi Pound of Cooper's Gelatine. 

Vi Can of Truffles. 

I' Tahlespoonful Each of Minced Parsley, 

and Thyme. 

3 Minced Bay Leaves. 1 Lemon. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

1 Glass of Brandy. 

1 Wineglass of Sherry. 2 Carrots. 

1 Turnip. 1 Stalk of Celery. 

2 Gallons of Water. 

% Teaspoontul Each of Grated Cinnamon and 
Allspice. 

For this highly-prized dish, select 
a young hen turkey. It must be 
hand-picked — that is, it must not be 
scalded, or it -will be unfit for the 
purpose of boning. Clean it thor- 
oughly, and, when well cleansed, 
place the turkey on the table, yitji 
the breast down, and take a sliarp 
penknife, or a very sharp-poin,ted 
knife, and cut the turkey o^en friom 
the, neck to the rump, down the back- 
bone. Then, with great care, run the 



knife between the' bones and the 
flesh to the wings, and, on reaching 
the Joints, unjoint and separate the 
bones from the body without break- 
ing the flesh; in likemanner remove 
each bone as you reach the Joint, ex- 
cept the small bone in the tips of the 
wings, which cannot be taken out 
easily and which are generally left 
on. Carefully slit out the bones of 
the leg, and then run the knife be- 
tween the bones and flesh till you 
come to the breast bone. Skillfully 
separate the flesh from the bone by 
running the knife between, being' 
careful to pull it out without break- 
ing the flesh of the turkey. After 
removing the carcass, spread out the 
turkey, which will be whole, and 
wipe inside and out with a damp 
towel, and rub ■well with salt and 
pepper, inside and out. Set aside in 
a cool place and prepare the follow- 
ing dressing or stufflng: Take two 
pounds of young veal, one pound of 
young, fat, fresh pork, and one pound 
of lean fresh pork. Mince these 
as fine as possible, and then season 
as follows: One-half of a nutmeg, 
finely grated; one tablespoonful of 
minced parsley; one of minced thyme, 
three of minced bay leaves, one tea-^ 
fepoonful of salt and one of black 
pepper, a teaspoonful of grated cin- 
namon, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
grated allspice and the Juice of one 
onion. Mix all this thoroughly in 
the stuffing. Add two raw eggs, 
beaten well; one wineglass full of 
Sherry and one of Brandy; stir well. 
When ^ell mixed add one-quarter of . 
a box of truffles, chopped, but not too- 
flne. Take the turkey, lay it open 
and carefully cut a layer of meat in 
nice slices from the inner part. Then 
put in a thick layer of the stuffing, 
and lay over this a layer of the meat,, 
using the whole liver, sliced in strips, 
also as alternate layers; then put 
in the rest of the stuffing as a layer, 
and bring the turkey nicely together 
and sew up so that it will retain its 
original shape. Have ready a nice, 
clean towel; roll the turkey in the 
towel, and tie it securely at both 
ends and around the middle in a 
solid way. Take all the bones of the 
turkey, the skinned feet, cleaned 
head and all, and place in a large 
pot. Add two pounds of veal, cut 
in pieces, and two calves' feet. Put 
in two carrots, one turnip, several 
sprigs of thyme and parsley, three 
bay leaves and a large piece of cel- 
ery. Add two gallons of water, and 
let this boil very hard for an hour. 
Then add the turkey which you wilL 
have tied in the towel and let it boil 
for two hours. After two hours, 
take the turkey out of the towel. 
It ■'vlll have shrunken up by this time- 
and the towel will be crinkled great- 
ly. Roll the towel out very smooth- 
ly again, and place the turkey back- 
in it while hot,' and ' roll carefully 



113 



again. Tie it at both ends and across 
the middle, and then place on a table 
and put a board or plank on top, and 
over this a flfteen-pound weight. 
Leave it in a cool place, but not in 
the ice box, as it must cool grad- 
ually and naturally. After it has 
cooled five on six hours you may 
put it in the ice box. 

In the meantime you will have left 
on the fire the pot with the water, 
bones, etc., in vfhich the turkey has 
been boiled. Let it boil for two hours 
longer, with the bones and all. Then 
take oil and drain the whole through 
a strainer, first letting the juice fall 
in another pan; then strain this 
through a towel, for there must be 
no pieces of cinnamon or herbs or 
dregs in this Jelly. Skim off all the 
grease that floats on top, being care- 
ful not to leave a particle. Put it 
on the flre again, and let it simmer. 
Add to the boiling mixture one lemon 
arid skin, cut in four or five pieces, 
and season with salt to taste. Put 
in a bowl one-quarter of a pound 
of Cooper's gelatine, and add one pint 
of water in which the turkey has 
been boiled; stir ■well and let the 
gelatine melt. When well melted, 
pour into the boiling mixture and 
beat it as you would a cake, mixing 
thoroughly. Take another bowl-, and 
break three raw eggs in it, and mash 
the shells and add; add one small 
wineglass of water and beat well 
again, as you would a cake. Prepare 
a flannel bag of size sufficient to hold 
a half gallon. Then pour the; eggs 
into the broth beating very thorough- 
ly and rapidly through and through 
for ten minutes, while it remains on 
the fire. The moment it begins to boil 
up it will curdle; then take the mix- 
ture off and strain in the flannel bag. 
Let this fall into a few tin cups or 
cans, for they are best, and set on 
ice. The next morning it will be 
hard. Then unroll the turkey and 
put it in a dish; cut the jelly from 
the can into fancy shapes and orna- 
ment the turkey with it, placing a 
fancy border around the dish. Tou 
will have a dish that a king might 
envy. 

Boned chicken may be prepared in 
exactly the same way. 

CHICKEN. 



Poulet. 

Chickens may be broiled, boiled, 
fried, stewed, baked or smothered. 
For broiling, always purchase spring 
chickens. For baking, the chicken 
must be young and lender. For in- 
valids, a delicately boiled spring 
chicken, with Drawn Butter Sauce, is 
• most nutritious and easily diges- 
tible diah. 



Broiled Chicken. 

Poulet Grill*. 

A Spring Chicken. Meltefl Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select spring chickens for broil- 
ing. For a family of six several 
will be required. Clean the chick- 
ens, nicely, singe, and then split dowr 
the middle of the back, laying the 
chicken open. Break the breastbone 
with a mallet and flatten out the 
chicken. Season well with salt anc 
pepper, and brush with melted but- 
ter. Have the broiler ready over a 
moderate fire, and place the chicken 
between (the double broiler is best) 
and let the fowl broil slowly for 
about a half hour, if the chicken is 
very tender, otherwise three-quarters 
of an. hour. It is well to keep a plate 
over it all the time, as it will re- 
tain its flavor better. Turn the chick- 
en frequently, so that it may be 
broiled through and through. H 
should be slightly browned on the 
skin side. When done, place in s 
heated\dish, pour over melted butter 
and garnish with chopped parslej 
and serve hot. A garnish of cresses 
is" very pretty. The dish is then 
called "Poulet Grille aux Cressons.' 

Boiled Cliiekeii. 

Poulet Bouilli. 

A Spring Cliieken. Drawn Butter Sauce. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a nice spring chiolcen, clear 
and singe and split down the mid- 
dle of the back. Season with sail 
and pepper, rubbing well on the in- 
side of the chicken. Place in a 
saucepan and cover ■well with water 
and let it. simmer well for one hour 
if the chicken is young. If the 
chicken is a year old and over, lei 
it simmer for two hours, according 
to age. When done take out of the 
water and place in a heated dish 
Pour over a Drawn Butter Sauce 
(see recipe) and garnish Witt 
chopped parsley. 

Creamed Chicken. 

Poulet a. la' CrSme. 

1 Chicken. Salt and Pepper to -Taste. 
A Cream Sauce. 

Select a fine one-year-old chicken 
and clean, singe and boil according t( 
the above recipe, first having cut ir 
joints, however. In boiling always 
simply cover the chicken with water 
, otherwise you will have chicker 
soup, all the nutriment of the chick- 
en being absorbed by the soup. Wher 
cooked for an hour or longer, if th( 
chicken is now very tender, take oui 
of the saucepan and place in a disl 
and pour over a Cream Sauce (sec 
recipe^, and serve. 



114 



DeTlIed Chicken. 

Poulet a. la Diable. 

1 Chicken. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of ParBley. 

% of a CloTe of Garlic. 

1 Glass of White Wine. 
1 Pint of Water. 
1 Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 
Salt and Pepper. A Dash of Cayenne. 
Boll the chicken according to the 
above recipe. Mince the meat fine. 
Make a sauce by putting into a 
saucepan one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and as it melts add one onion, 
minced very fine; a sprig of minced 
parsley, one minced bay leaf, and 
a. half clove of minced garlic. Let it 
simmer gently without browning and 
then add one tablespoonful of flour. 
Well sifted. Mix thoroughly, and add 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 
a wineglass of "White Wine. Stir 
well and add one pint of the water 
in which the chicken was boiled. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste 
and a slight dash of Cayenne. Then 
add one teaspoonful of prepared mus- 
tard. Let it simmer three minutes 
longer, and as it comes to a bail 
p6ur over the chicken and serve. 
Ahy remains of cold chicken are very 
delicious served with this "Sauce 
a la Diable." (See recipe "Meat 
Sauces.") 

Chicken A la Tartare. 

Poulet a. la Tartare. 

1 Spring Chicken. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cbopped Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf, Minced Fine. 

1 Cbopped Onion. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the chicken according to the 
above recipe, adding the chopped 
vegetables and herbs. Season to 
taste. When done, place on a hot 
dish, butter nicely and serve with a 
Sauce a, la Tartare. (See recipe.) 

A broiled chicken may be served in 
the same manner, but either broiled 
or boiled, the chicken must be cooked 
whole, splitting down the back. 

Stewed Chicken, Broivn Sauce. 

Fricassge de Volaille, Sauce Brune. 

1 Chicken. 1 Onion. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 
Leaf. • 
Salt and Pepper (o Taste. 
Clean and cut the chicken into 
pieces at the joints. Season well with 
salt and black pepper. Chop the on- 
ions fine. Put a tablespoonful of lard 
Into the stewpot, and, when hot, add 
the onion. Let it brown slightly and 
then add the flour, which has been 
well sifted. Let this brown and add 
the chicken. Let all simmer a few 



minutes and then add the chopped 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf. The 
latter must be minced very fine. Stir 
well and often. When every piece 
is nicely browned, add one pint and 
a h.alf of boiling water or soup broth. 
Stir until it begins to boil. Season 
again to taste. Cover and let it sim- 
mer gently for an hour, or until ten- 
der. In making a fricass§e, the liver, 
heart and gizzard of the chicken are 
all thrown into the stew. Dish up 
the chicken, pour over the hot sauce 
and serve hot. This, dish Is very 
nice with boiled rice or potatoes. It 
is a simple, elegant dish, within the 
means of everyone. This is a plain 
fricassee. 

Stewed Chicken, White Sauce. 

Fricassfie de Volaille, Sauce Blanche. 

1 Chicken. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 1 Pint Fresh Mlllt. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and cut the chicken into 
joints and clean the gizzard, liver 
and open the heart. Season well 
with salt and pepper, and put all 
into a stewpan on a moderate fire. 
Cover well with boiling water. Let 
simmer for an hour and a half or 
quarter if the chicken is very young; 
longer if the chicken is old. Add 
the juice of two large onions. Cook 
until tender. This is, the unvarying 
rule in stewing or cooking chickens, 
as one may be tender and the other 
quite tough, though of the same age. 
When the chicken is done, blend to- 
gether one large tablespoonful of 
butter and of flour in a frying pan 
without browning; add a pint of 
milk and mix well. Add this to the 
chicken, mixing and stirring con- 
stantly till it boils. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. Take from the fire and 
add the beaten yolks of two eggs 
and a little chopped parsley. Serve 
hot. 

Chicken Saute ft la Creole. 

Poulet SautS a. la Creole. 

2 Fine Spring Chickens. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

6 Large Fresh Tomatoes, or % Can. 

C Fiesh, Sweet Green Peppers. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

3 Large Onions. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Bay Leases. 
1 Pint of Consomme or Boiling Water. 
Salt and fepper to Taste. 

Take two spring chickens and 
clean nicely and cut Into pieces at 
the joints. Season well With salt 
and pepper. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter into a stewpan, and, when 
it ftielts, add the chicken. Let this 
brown slowly for : a good, five min- 
utes. Have ready three' large on- , 
Jons sliced. Add these to the cbickr 



115 



ens and let them brown. Everv inch 
must be-Jri^sftr bfWKrned, but not in 
the slightest degree burned. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of ^ flour; let this 
brown. Then add a half do^en large, 
fresh- -tomatoes nicely slicea, -or a 
half can of tomatoes, and let these 
brown. Cook very slowly,' allowing 
the mixture to simply simmer. Add 
chopped parsley, thyme and bay leaf 
and two cloves of garlic finely 
minced. Let all brown without burn- 
ing. Cover and let it smother over 
a slow but steady fire. The tomato 
juice will make sufficient gravy as 
yet. If you have sweet green pep- 
pers, add a half dozen, taking the 
seeds out before adding and slicing 
the peppers very fine. Stir well. Let 
all smother steadily for twenty min- 
utes at least, keeping well covered 
and stirring occasionally. When 
well smothered, add one cup of Con- 
sojnm6, if you have it; if not, one cup 
of boiling water'. Let it cook again 
for a full half hour, very, very slowly 
over a very steady Are,- and season 
again to taste. Cook ten minutes 
more, and serve hot. You will then 
have a dish for which any old Cre- 
ole would go on foot from CarroUton 
to the Barracks, a distance of fifteen 
miles, merely to get a taste of. 

Chicken With Mushrooms. 

Poulet Saute aux Champignons. 

1 Fine Spring Chicken. ^ Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Chopped Onions. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Glass of Madeira or Sherry Wine. 

% Square Inch of Ham to Season. 

Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf. 

Cut into joints and season a nice- 
ly cleaned chicken. Put it in a sauce- 
pan with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, and let it simmer for about ten 
minutes, browning slightly. A mush- 
room sauce is never dark. Add two 
nicely-chopped onions, and let these 
brown slightly; then add one-half 
of a square inch of ham,* chopped 
very fine indeed. Add thyme, parsley 
and bay leaf, following carefully the 
order given in adding the ingred- 
ients. A minute later add the garlic, 
which has been minced very fine. Let 
all brown together for ten minutes. 
Cut the mushrooms into halves, put 
them with their water, into the pot, 
stirring well. Let them simmer five 
minutes. Then add a wineglass of 
Sherry or Madeira, stir and cover the 
pot closely, so that It can smother 
well. If the sauce appears too thick 
add about a half cup of broth or 
boiling water. Season to taste, and 
let all cook very slowly for an hour 
longer over a steady fire. The secret 
in smothering chicken is to let it 
cook slowly, so that the seasoning 
may permeate the flesh and the heat 
by slow degrees render It tender and 
most palatable. 



Chicken With Truffles. 

Poulet Saute aux TrufEes. 
Proceed in exactly the same man. 
iier as in the above recipe, only adc 
a half can of truffles instead of th( 
mushrooms. This is an expensive 
dish. 

Chicken and Rice, 
Poulet au Riz. 

1 Fine Chicken. 

% Square Inch of Ham. 

2 Small Turnips. 2 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

1 Small Piece Lemon Peel. "' 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Small Piece of Bed Pepper Pod. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Whole Cloves, Without the Seed. 

3 Sliced Tomatoes. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Quarts of Water. 2 Tablespoonfuls Butter. 
Salt and ■Pepper to Taste. 
Clean and cut and^eason the chick- 
en well with salt and pepper. Put 
the buttet into the saucepan and let 
It melt, and add the^seasoned chicken. 
Let It brown well, and add the vege- 
tables, all chopped very fine. Then 
add the minced herbs and garlic, and 
after this the spices. Let all sim- 
mer gently fpr ten minutes, and 
pour over two quarts of boiling wa- 
ter. Stir and season again to taste 
and set back on the stove and let it 
simmer steadily and slowly for three- 
quarters of , an hour. When two- 
thirds cooked, add one cup of well- 
washed rice, stir well, seasoning 
again to taste. Do not let the rice 
become mushy. Let the grains stand 
out. Let all cook for twenty minutes 
longer and serve, taking out first the 
pieces of chicken and ranging the 
rice around as a garnish. Serve with 
the sauce poured over. 

Chicken Steived With Green Peas. 

\ Poulet Saute aux Petit Pois. 

1 Nice Chicken of a Year Old. 
1 Pint of Green Peas. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Chopped Onions. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Pint of Fresh Milk. % Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 

Cut and season the chicken nicely. 
Put It in a saucepan with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and let it simmer 
nicely for about ten minutes without 
browning. Add two nicely-chopped 
onions and let these brown slightly. 
Then add a square inch of ham, 
chopped very fine, and minced thyme, 
parsley and bay leaf, one sprig each. 
Add the garlic, nicely minced. Let 
all brown together, slightly simmer- 
ing all the time. Then pour in one 
pint of boiling water, and set back 
on the stove and let simmer gently 
for an hour and a quarter. About 
twenty minutes before serving add 
one pint of milk, and let all cook for 
twenty minutes. Serve with the 



116 



green peas heaped around the chick- 
en, which should be placed in the 
center p£ the dish. Pour the gravy 
over, and bring to the table. 

Chicken With Dumplings. 

Poulet aux fichaudgs. 
1 Pine Year Old Chicken. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 

2 Dozen Small Dumplings. 
Prepare a Plain Fricassee, Brovyn 

or White Gravy, and, about twelve 
minutes before serving, add the 
dumplings, dropping them in lightly 
and bring the chicken to a brisk 
boil. (See recipe for Dumplings.) 
Place the chicken and dumplings in 
the dish, pour the hot gravy over 
and serve. 

Chicken Ik la Jardlni£re. 

Poulet a. la Jardiiiifire. 

1 Fine Chicken. 

6 Small Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf. 

% Head of Cauliflower, 

H Cup of Green Peas 

3 Small Artichokes. 
Yi Can of Mushrooms. 
Cut and stew the chicken as in 
Fricassee Brown Gravy. After add- 
ing the water, add a half dozen small 
onions, and let it simmer for an hour. 
or until tender. Then add one-quar- 
ter can of mushrooms, a small half 
head of cauliflower (nicely chopped), 
a half cup of green peas and several 
cooked artichokes. Set upon a quick 
fire, mix well and add a pint of good 
broth or water; let all cook for twen- 
ty minutes longer and serve hot. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Poulet BraisS. 
1 Chicken. 1 Tahlespoonful of Lard. 
This is a most delicate and pala- 
table way of cooking chickens. After 
cleaning the young chicken, split 
down the back and dredge with salt 
and pepper. Put a tablespoonful of 
lard into the frying pan, and, when 
It is hot, add the chicken. Let it 
simmer gently for about fifteen min- 
utes, then add a half cup of water, 
and set back on the stove, and let 
it simmer gently and steadily for 
about an hour. Serve with a garnish 
of chopped parsley. Some smother 
the chicken in butter, but this is ac- 
acoording to taste. Butter always 
makes a greasier dish than lard when 
frying or smothering meats. 

Breasts of Chicken liOuislana Style. 

Suprgme de Volaille k la Loulsianaise. 

The Filets of 2 Chickens. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter, 

1 Small Onion, sliced. 1 Minced Bay Leaf. 

1 Blade of Mace. 4 Cloves. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The filets are the white meat on 

either side of the breast bop'e. In 



one chicken you will have four filets. 
'Form this white meat neatly into 
•filets by patting and fiattening. Then 
season well with salt and pepper. 
Put the butter into the stewpan and 
add the sliced onion, the bay leaf 
(whole) and the spices. Let all sim- 
mer without browning. Then lay in 
the filets of chicken, being careful 
not to let them brown. Let them 
simmer'gently and add one cup of the 
water in which you have broiled the 
dark meat of the chicken. ' Let all 
simmer gently for an hour. When 
done, arrange the filets tastefully on 
a dish, garnish with parsley sprigs 
and CroOtons of bread nicely shaped 
in diamond form and fried in butter. 
The dark meat may be utilized in 
making salads, croquettes or bou- 
dins. 

Breasts of Chicken, Q,neen Strle. 

Supr§me de Volaille &. la Keine. 

6 or 8 Breasts of Chicken. 2 Truffles. 

4 Mushrooms. 

2 Ounces of Chicken Forcemeat. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Gill of Madeira Wine. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Liquor. 

1 Pint of Hot Sauce a la Reine. 

Under the breast of each chicken 
' is found a small filet. Carefully re- 
move this, and set aside on a dish 
for further use. Take a small, sharp 
Icnife and make an incision three 
Inches long and one inch deep in the 
inner side of each breast; season 
lightly with salt and pepper, and then 
'stuff each breast in the incision made, 
using two ounces of chicken force- 
'meat (see reoliJe), mixed with two 
truffles and four mushrooms, all finely 
minced. Put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter in a stewpan; lay the breasts in 
gently. Take each small filet, press 
gently into shape, and flatten; make 
several small incisions and place 
within a fine slice of trufltle, about an 
inch in diameter. Carefully lay on 
'top of each breast lengthwise. Brush 
lightly with melted butter. Pour 
into the pan, but not over the breasts, 
the wine and mushroom liquor. Cover 
tightly and set in the oven for fit- 
teen minutes. Send to the table hot. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Poularde Btouffifi. 

1 Toung Hen. M Pound of Nice Bacon. 

1 Lemon. 2 Carrots. 2 Onions. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 1% Cups Broth. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
This is a nice way to utilize young 
hens. Clean and singe the chicken 
nicely, and, after taking out the en- 
trails, truss it as in roasting turkey. 
Place in the frying pan small pieces 
of fat bacon, out in very slender 
strips of about the size of your fing- 
er. Place over this slices of l«mo;i. 
very fine, and cover again with slen- 



Il7 



der bits of bacon. Moisten tliis with 
a half cup of water and lay over 
two carrots, cut in thin slices, and 
two onions, out likewise, and a tea- 
spoonful each of thyme, parsley and 
one bay leaf, minced fine. Place on 
top of this the chicken and cover 
closely. Let it cook on' a good Are 
for three-quarters of an hour, or a 
half hour, it the chicken is exoeed- 
ing-ly tender. When done, take out 
the chicken, add ono-half cup of 
broth to the liquor in which it has 
been boiling. Stir well and season 
highly, and pour over the chicken 
and serve. A sauce of tomatoes may 
also be made and served with this 
dish. 

Fried Chicken. 

Poulet Frit. 

1 Spring Chicken. 

3 _ Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 2 Eggs. 

i Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and cut the chicken into 

joints, Dredge well with salt and 

pepper. Make a nice batter with the 

eggs and flour and roll the chicken 

in this, patting lightly. Place in the 

hot lard in the frying pan and let 

it cook for about three-quarters of 

an hour, watching carefully that it 

may not burn. Serve on a platter 

garnished with chopped parsley and 

cresses. 

Fried Chicken, Cream Sance. 

Poulet Frit a, la CrSme. 

1 Spring Cliicken. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 
Salt and Pepper. 1 Tableapoonful of Flour. 
% Pint of ililk. 
Clean and cut the chicken at the 
joints. Dredge well with salt and 
pepper, and a little flour. Put the 
lard into the frying pan, and, when 
hot, add the chicken, letting it fry 
slowly for three-quarters of an hour 
until done. Be careful not to burn. 
When done, arrange the pieces on a 
hot dish. Pour off all the fat that 
remains in the frying pan but one 
tablespoonful. Add to this a table- 
spoonful of sifted flour. Mix thor- 
oughly and then pour in a half pint 
of rich cream or milk. Season well 
with salt and pepper, let it come to 
a slight boil and pour over the chick- 
en and serve. 

Roast Chicken, 

Poulet Hoti. 

1 Chicken. % Tablespoonful Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ned as for roasting a turkey. (See 
rteoipe.) The chicken must bake in 
a quick oven, allowing fifteen min- 
utes to every pound. A roasted 
chicken may be stuffed or not, ac- 
cording to taste, with a stufling of 
oysters, eggs or truffles (see Dress- 



ings for Fowls) in exactly the same 
manner as turkey. 

Chicken & la Relne. 

Poulet a, la Peine. 
2 Chickens of 1 Year Old. 
Vi Pound of Nice Bacon. 1 Carrot, cut fine. 
1 Onion., cut fine 
1 Quart of Broth or Water. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 
Clean the chickens and truss as 
for roasting. Then dredge inside and 
out with salt and pepper. Cut the 
bacon into very thin strips, about the 
width of a match, and cover the bot- 
tom of the stewpan. Lay over this 
the carrots and onions, sliced fine, 
and put another layer of salt meat 
in delicate strips. Put the chickens 
in this and cover well and set in- 
side of a hot oven. After twenty 
minutes add the boiling broth or 
water and thes bunch of sweet herbs. 
Let the chickens cook for two hours, 
turning them at the end of one hour 
and basting occasionally. Put the 
chicken in a hot dish, boil the gravy 
down to a half quart, skim off all 
the grease and pass through a sieve 
and pour over the chickens and serve. 

Casserole of Chicken. 

Casserole de Volaille. 

% Cup of Cream. 

3 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Cups of Louisiana Rice. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A White Fricassee of Chicken. 
Make a FricassSe of Chicken, White 
Gravy. Boil the rice according to re- 
cipe (see Boiled Rice) and then mash 
the rice thoroughly and add the but- 
ter and season with salt and pep- 
per. Take a raised pie pan or cas- 
serole and press the rice into this, 
and set away to cool. When cool, 
■cut out the center of the rice and 
fill the wall and bottom with the 
white fricassSe of chicken. Cover 
the top with the rice which you have 
cut out, laying on lightly, so as not 
to press the chicken sauce through. 
Beat an egg well and brush over 
this. Set in the oven and bake. Serve 
Svith Mushroom Sauce. 

Chicken Souffle. 

SoufflS de Poulet. 
1 Pint of Chopped Left-Over Chicken. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
1 Pint of Milk. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
3 Fresh Eggs. 
''A Cup of Stale Bread. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan and 
add the flour, and niix nicely without 
browning. Then add the milk and 
stir constantly till it boils. Add the 
bread crumbs and cook for one min- 
ute longer. Then take from the fire 
and add the chicken, which has been 



118 



hashed very fine and seasoned well 
with salt, pepper and Cayenne, judg- 
ing according to the taste. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and add, mixing 
thoroughly. Then beat the whites to 
a stifE froth and stir very carefully 
Into the mixture. Grease the bot- 
tom of a baking dish with butter 
and put the mixture in this, baking 
for twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
Serve immediately while hot, or it 
will fall. This Is a very delicate, 
dish. 

Chicken Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent de Volaille. 

1 Chicken. 1 Onion. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Bay Leaf and Parsley. 
Pie Paste. 
Clean and cut the chicken into 
small pieces of about two inches in 
length and make a plain frloassSe. 
(See Fricassee Brown Gravy.) Pre- 
pare a Vol-au-Vent Paste (see re- 
cipe), and flU a tin pan of about two 
quarts with the Paste. Pour in the 
chicken and gravy, and let It bake 
in the oven till the top crust is nicely 
browned. Always bake the under 
crust first. This is a delightful en- 
tree at any feast. Vol-au-Vent of 
pigeons, young veal and frog legs are 
made in the same manner. A Vol- 
au-Vent of Frogs is called "Gre- 
nouilles a. la Poulet." The Vol-au- 
Vent paste is difficult to make. 

Chicken Patties,. Q.neen Style. 

Petites BouchSes, t la Beine. 

1 Small Young Chicken. 
i2 Rounds of PutC Paste. 
1 Tablespoonful of Cutter. 
1 TablespQOQful of Flour. 
H Pint of Milk. %v Can of Mushrooms. 

A Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 
Salt and Pepper to' Taste. 

Roast or broil the chicken nicely. 
Make a Puff Paste. (See recipe.) 
Cut a_ dozen rounds with a biscuit 
cutter; mark a smaller round or 
top for a cover. Brush with a beat- 
en egg, and mark on the surface of 
each with the cutter, dipping it each 
time in hot water, so that the marked 
outline may remain perfect. Set In 
a brisk oven and let them brown 
nicely for twelve minutes. Then re- 
move the covers gently with a knife 
and fill with the following garnish- 
ing. Remove all the chicken meat 
from the bone and chop very fine. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter In a 
sautoire or stewpan and add a ta- 
blespoonful of sifted flour. Stir till 
smooth. Pour in gradually a half 
pint of hot milk till the same reaches 
the consistency of S, thick cream. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper 
and a Utile nutmeg, and add one- 
half can of mushrooms finely chopped 
and the chicken. Stir constantly and 



let it come to a boll. Then remove 
from the fire and fill the patties. Set 
the covers on, serve on a hot dish. 
Pork tongues, blanched sweetbreads 
and all other "Bouch6es" are pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

Boned Chicken. 

Galatine TruffSe a la Gelfie. 
Proceed In exactly the same man- 
ner as tor boned turkey and serve. 
(See recipe Boned Turkey.) 

Chicken Croqiaettes. 

Croquettes de Volaille. 
1 Young Chicken. 
2 Small Onions. 1 Bay Leaf. 
4 Sprigs of Parsley. 
1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter, 
1 Cup of Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Cayenne and Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the chicken as directed in 
the recipe for boiling. Then, when 
cold, remove all the tough fibers and 
nerves. Hash the chicken well and 
season with the minced vegetables 
and sweet herbs, mixing all thor- 
oughly. Then take a cup of the soft 
of the bread, wet it and squeeze, and 
soak in milk, in which you have beat- 
en two eggs. Mix all this with the 
chicken very thoroughly and season 
to taste. When well mixed form 
the meat Into cylindrical shapes and 
•brush with a little butter. Then roll 
in a beaten egg and roll again in 
powdered bread crumbs. Fry in 
boiling lard and serve hot on a plate 
garnished with fried parsley. 

Remains of cold turkey or cold 
chicken may be utilized In this^way. 
Chicken Bnlla, Q,neen Style. 
Boudins 3. la Reine. 
1 Young Chicken. 
2 Small Onions. 1 Bay Leaf. 
i Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Cup of Milk, 

2 Eggs. Vi Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Boudins a. la Reine are made in ex- 
actly the same manner as croquettes, 
only the mixture Is placed In a frying 
pan and fried in butter, using about 
a tablespoonful. To this Is added 
about one pint of milk. Beat the 
chicken thoroughly in this, ».dd a 
grated nutmeg, then take oft the Are 
and add two eggs, well beaten. Fill 
custard cups with the mixture, place 
In the oven setting In a pan of boil- 
ing water and covering with paper. 
Let them bake thus as you would 
a cup custard for twenty minutes, 
and take off the paper and let them 
brown. Serve hot. All cold roasts, 
whether of turkey or chicken, may be 
thus utilized. 

Bonlettea. 

Boulettes are prepared in exactly 

the same manner as boudins, only 

' the meat Is formed into boulettes, or 



119 



small balls, and patted on either side 
to flatten slightly. 

Chicken Snlad, Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Mayonnaise de VolalUe. 

Remains of Cold Chicken, 

or Freshly Boiled. 

. 3 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 

CelSry. 1 Onion. 

Celery, Asparagus Tips and Boiled Beets 

to Garnish. 

A Sauce a - la Mayonnaise. 
The remains of cold chicken are 
used for this. But it is always pref- 
erable for dinners to boil the chick- 
ens nicely and use only the white 
meat, if you wish the dish to be 
recherche. The dark meat, however, 
is equally good, though it may not 
look so pretty. After cooking the 
chickens very tender, pick out all 
the white meat into small pieces of 
about an inch or less, and add 
chopped celery of the whitest fiber 
and very tender. Mix thoroughly, 
using good judgment in having parts 
of the celery and chicken in the pro- 
portion of one-third celery. Chop an 
onion very fine, and add. Season all 
with salt and pepper to taste. Place 
on a dish and spread over a nice 
Mayonnaise dressing (see Sauce a 
la Mayonnaise), and garnish prettily 
with celery tips, asparagus tips, ol- 
ives, and very delicately sliced red 
beets, and sliced lemon. 

Chicken Li-vers. 

Foies de Volaille. 
Chicken livers may be prepared as 
"Foie de Volaille Saut6," or "Foie 
de 'Volaille en Broohette." They are 
prepared in exactly the same manner 
as in the recipes for cooking beef's 
liver. (See recipe.) 

CAPONS. 

Chapons. 

Capons of either turkey or chicken 
are cooked in exactly the same man- 
ner, generally being best when boiled 
or roasted. 

Chapon Farcie a, la CrSme corres- 
ponds to Creamed Chicken, and Cha- 
pon a la Po§le corresponds to Pou- 
larde a la Pogle, and are particu- 
larly recommended. (See recipes.) 

GriNE3A FOWli. 

Pintade. 
The Guinea Fowl is only eaten 
when very young, and then it makes 
a nice, palatable dish. All the prep- 
arations given for cooking turkey 
may be followed in preparing this 
fowl, and it is unnecessary to repeat 
them here. (See recipes for Cooking 
Turkey.) 

goose:. 

Die. 

The goose is a much tougher fowl 
than either the chicken or turkey 



and requires longer to cook. It is 
also dryer meat, and in roasting 
requires to have a little water poured 
over it. Never roast a goose that is 
more than eight months or a year old, 
and never eat a goose over three 
years old. The happy age for gene- 
ral cooking is when the goose has 
reached one year or one year and a 
half. Young wild geese of not more 
than one year, and yard ducklings of 
similar age, are broiled in the same 
manner as spring chicken. The fa;t- 
ter the goose, the more tender and 
juicy the meat. 

Roast Goose. 

Ole Rotie. 

1 Young Goose. i Onions. 

1 Cup of Mashed Potatoes. 

% Teaspoonfnl of Thyme. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

4 Apples. 1% Tablespoonful of Lard. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A roast goose, properly preparerd, 
is a very savory dish, whether the 
fowl is wild or tame. But, as men- 
tioned above, the goose must be ten- 
der. If the breastbone yields easily 
to pressure and thg pinions are very 
tender, the legs smooth and yellow 
and free from feathers, the goose 
is young. In picking a goose never 
scald it, as this utterly ruins the 
flesh. The goose must be hapd 
picked. Then singe and clean, and 
season well and roast as you would 
a turkey, allowing, however, twenty- 
flve minutes to every pound. It may 
be served with a Giblet Sauce as 
roast chicken. Apple Sauce or Cur- 
rant Jelly is always served with 
Roast Goose,- preferably the Apple 
Sauce. Any stuffing used in baking a 
turkey may be used for roast goose, 
such as oyster or egg, etc. But the 
following is an excellent special 
dressing and seems to bring out more 
than any other the flavor of the 
goose. 

Take one cup of mashed potatoes, 
four apples, peeled nicely and cored, 
and four onions, one-half teaspoonful 
of sage, powdered well; one^half tea- 
spoonful of thyme, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Place the apples and 
onions and herbs in a saucepan and 
add water sufficiently to cover nicely. 
Let all cook together till soft. Then 
mash well and rub through a sieve. 
Add the cup of mashed potatoes and 
mix well, seasoning with salt and' 
pepper. Stuff the body and craw, 
sew up and truss the goose. Put_ 
into the roasting pan, rubbing a half 
tablespoonful of lard over it and 
pouring over a half cup of water, 
boiling. Baste the goose very fre- 
quently, say every ten minutes, so 
that it will be line, and juicy. It 
generally requires at least an hour 
and a half to roast well, but the rule 
of twenty-five minutes to the pound 
is a good one to follow. A "Green 



120 



Goose" is always best for roasting, 
but tliis must be covered from tlie 
beginning- with a piece of buttered 
paper, else it will brown before cook- 
ing. Serve with Apple Sauce. 

Goose naube. 

Oie en Daube. 
Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as Turkey Daube (see recipe). 
A goose that is not so young may be 
cooked a, la Daube. 

Goose a la Clitpolata. 

Oie a la Chipolata. 

1 Fine Young Goose. 

^ Pound of Chaurice. 1 Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Dozen Large Chestnuts, nicely 

roasted and skinned. 

1 Sprig Each of Thjrme and Bay Leaf. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 

4 or 5 Bits of Lemon Peel. 

2 Onions. 1 Pint of BoilingWater. 

% Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

1 Spoon of Flour. 

Place the lard or butter in the 
stewpot and when it melts add the 
onions, which have been nicely 
sliced. As they brown add the goose, 
which has been cleaned, singed and 
nicely cut at the Joints into pieces, 
and well rubbed with salt and pep- 
per, and the sausage, which must 
be cut in halves. Let simmer for 
about ten minutes, until every por- 
tion is slightly browned, and then 
add the minced herbs and garlic. Af- 
ter three minutes add the spoonful 
of flour, mixing virell, and let it all 
simmer for ten minutes longer, then 
pour in the can of mushrooms and 
their water, and add immediately 
the chestnuts. Let the goose cook 
till tender and serve hot. 

Fat liivers, 

Des Foies Gras. 
The livers of geese that have been 
caged tightly, so that they can make 
no movement, and which have been 
kept in a very high temperature, 
much higher than that of the atmo- 
sphere — geese which have been de- 
prived of every ray of light — are 
used for the famous dish, "Foies 
Gras," The French flrst discovered 
this manner of caging geese, doing 
it at their ancient stronghold of 
Strasbourg. At Toulouse the livers 
of tame ducks were treated in the 
same manner. The Creoles, descend- 
ants of the French, brought over the 
custom to the old French colony of 
Louisiana, whence it has spread to a41 
portions of the United States. Be- 
fore the war, on the spot now 
known as the New Orleans Fair 
Grounds, there was a famous "Foie 
Gras" farm. It was kept by an old 
Creole woman, and she made a for- 
tune from the profits. She followel 
the old French method of caging the 



geese so tightly that often, as In 
Strasbourg, the feet were nailed 
down, to prevent the least move- 
ment. The farm closed in 1861. 
While the livers of the geese or 
ducks become soft and fat under 
this treatment, the rest of the body 
suffers, and becomes so very fat 
that the goose flesh is good for 
nothing, or, as the Creoles say, "Plug 
bonne a, rien." Foies Gras are now 
sold in cans in every large grocery 
establishment in the United States, 
They come already cooked, in such 
shape that they can easily be made 
into any of the delectable dishes 
that so delight the old Creole or 
French "bon vivants." The most fa- 
mous of these dishes is the 

Patties of Foies Gras. 

Pat6 de Foie Gras. 

1 Terrine of Foies Gras. 

1 Pound of Fat Pork. 

1 Pound of Goose Fat. 

~% Can of Truffles.. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Glass of Sherry 'Wine. 

A Puff Paste. 

Procure the fat livers of geese. 
'(They are no longer to be bought ex- 
cept already prepared in cans, Ter- 
rine de Foie Gras aux Truflles du 
'Perigord, Strasbourg.) To this allow 
one pound of fat pork and one pound 
of the fat of geese. Chop these and 
the livers very fine, allowing pound 
for pound of the fat meat and goose 
fat to the same quantity of livers. 
Season well with salt and pepper, 
and moisten it well with Sherry wine. 
Chop a half can. of truffles and, mix, 
and put all in a quart or pint meas- 
ure baking pan, which you will have 
lined with Puff Paste. (See recipe.) 
The pan must be about two and a 
half or ^ three inches deep. Bake 
this paste, and then flll in with the 
foies gras. Cover with a light cover 
of the dough, and decorate around 
the edges with the clippings of dough 
that remain. Place the pie in the, 
oven, and let it bake for about an 
hour to a nice brown, covering for 
the flrst three-quarters of an hour 
with a piece of paper, to prevent 
burning. When done, serve in the 
dish in which it was baked. This 
is the real Creole Pat6 de Foie Gras. 

Stewed Foies Gras. 

Foies Gras en Matelote. 

1 Terrine of Foies Gras. 

Thin Strips of Baron. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Wineglassful of White Wine. 

2 Spoonfuls of 'French Brandy. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Get the prepared Foies Gras. Cut 
them into slices or filets. Lard them 
with a larding needle and then place 
at the bottom of the saucepan small 
strips of bacon, cut very thin and 



121 



fine. Add one carrot, nicely sliced; 
one onion, nicely sliced, and a ta- 
blespoonful of chopped parsley. Cover 
this with narrow strips of bacon, and 
moisten with sufficient white wine 
to cover well, and two spoonfuls of 
brandy. Add the juice of a lemon 
and let- it simmer well for a few 
minutes. Then add the livers, and 
let them simmer for ten minutes 
longer. Season to taste, cook five 
minutes more and serve hot. In sea- 
soning the Ivers prepared m this 
manner must always have a stimu- 
lating taste. 

Loaf of Poles Gras. 

Pain de Foie Gras. 

roles. Gras. % Can of Mushrooms. 

% Can of Truffles. 2 Shallots. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley 

and Bay Leaf. 

1 Leaf of Rose Geranium. 

^ Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cinnamon, 

Allspice. Cloves and Mace. 

1 Young Sweetbread. 

% Cup of the Soft of Bread. 

The Yolk of an Egg. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Choose sufficient livers for the 
number of guests, for this is never 
an every-day dish, and place them 
in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of 
butter. Let them simmer gently and 
add a half can of mushrooms and 
a quarter of a can of truffles, two 
shallots, nicely minced;, a sprig each 
of thyme, bay leaf and parsley, 
minced fine; salt and pepper to taste, 
and a half teaspoonful of prepared 
mustard; the leaf of one geranium, 
minced fine, and a quarter teaspoon- 
fill each of ground cinnamon, all- 
spice, cloves and mace. Mix this 
thoroughly and let it simmer in the 
juice of the mushrooms for about 
twenty minutes. Then take a young 
sweetbread and cook according to 
recipe for Plain Pried Sweetbreads, 
and add a half cup, of the soft of 
the bread, well moistened with milk. 



Mix this with the hashed sweet- 
breads, and add the yolk of an egg. 
Place this in a mortar with the 
foies gras and mix well. Then turn 
into a pan and brush lightly with 
the beaten yolk of an egg, and 
sprinkle grated bread crumbs over. 
Set in a pan of boiling water (Bain- 
marie), and bake in the oven for 
about a half hour. 

Foles Gras Loaf Jellied, 

Pain de Foies a, la Gel6e. 

Foles Gras.' 1 Slice of Fat Fresh Pork. 

1 Slice of Lean Pork (Grated.) 

Va Can of Mushrooms. 

Vi Can of Truffles. 

1 Calf's Foot. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Ground Allspice, Cinnamon 

Cloves and Mace. 

% Cup of the Soft of Bread. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Bits of Lemon Peel. 

1 Tablespoonful of French Brandy. 

This ,is prepared in exactly the 
same manner as the above, only the 
sweetbreads are omitted, and in their 
place is added an egg, well beaten, 
and a piece of grated lean and fat 
fresh pork meat. Add a half can of 
mushrooms again and a quarter of a 
can of truffles, and a piece of calf's 
foot. Cook into a mixture of the 
consistency of gravy, mash well and 
strain in a sieve after seasoning very 
highly; add the Juice. Let this sim- 
mer for about five minutes and add 
the pint of boiling water. Set upon 
the back of the stove, and let -it 
cook for about two hours, or an 
hour and a half, according to the 
age of the goose, throwing in the bits 
of lemon peel. When done, skim 
carefully of all grease, and at the 
moment of serving add the juice 
of one lemon to the mixture and 
serve. This is a very rich dish, and 
is served as an entrfee. 



CHAPTER XVII. 



PIGEONS. 



Pigeons. 



Pigeons are of two kinds, those 
of the dovecot and those that are 
shot on the wing, commonly called 
doves. The latter are always broiled, 
just as one would broil any ' other 
bird or a tenderloin beefsteak; else 
they are roasted in little bands, of 
bacon. The former are prepared in 
various ways, as, indeed, the latter 
njay be also, only the wild taste is 
more apparent when broiled or 
roasted. 

Broiled Pigeons. 

Pigeons Grill^es. ■ 

or 8 Young Squno. 

3 Tatilespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

6 or 8 Pieces of Buttered Toast. 

The Juice o£ 1 Lemon. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Squab are always best for broiling. 
Pluck and clean nicely inside and out. 
Wipe with a damp towel. Split down 
the back and spread open as you 
would a broiled chicken. Have the 
gridiron very hot. Rub the pigeon 
inside and out with salt and pepper, 
and brusli lightly with butter. Place 
the broiler over a moderate furnace 
fire, from which all the gas has 
been exhausted, and let it broil slow- 
ly ten minutes on the inner side and 
Ave minutes on the outer. In the 
meantime toast a piece of bread for 
every pigeon that you broil. Moisten 
well with butter. Place the squab 
upon the toast, allowing one squab 
for each piece of toast, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and butter, and serve 
hot. It is always well to rub the 
pigeon with a little lemon juice, as 
that renders the flesh nice and white. 

Broiled Pigeons a la Crapaudine. 

Pigeons a. la Crapaudine. 

4 Pigeons. The Tolk of an Egg. 

1 Cup o£ Mlik. 1 Tablespoonful of Batter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Tomato Sauce. 

This is a famous Creole dish, and 
the object is to so dress the pigeons 
that they will resemble little frogs, 
hence the name, "Pigeons a. la Crap- 
audine." 

Clean the pigeons nicely, inside and 
out, and then carefully cut the 
breast from the loin joints, without 
separating entirely. Raise the breast 
up from the shoulder joints, and pass 
it over the head of the pigeon, with- 



out separating it from the shoulders. 
Then press it down very firmly with; 
your hands or a masher. Have ready 
the yolk of one egg, well beaten in 
a cup of milk. Season well with 
salt and pepper. Soak the pigeons in 
it well, so that they will absorb ,the 
milk and be thoroughly impregnated 
Roll over and over, so that they will 
gather up the seasoning. Then pass 
them through bread crumbs, rolling 
and then patting each pigeon with 
your hands, so that the crumbs will 
hold. Brush each with a little 
melted butter. Have ready a double 
broiler, Tvell heated, but on a slow 
fire. Place the pigeons on it, broil- 
ing very slowly. Broil for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, allowing from 
seven to ten minutes to each side, ' 
and serve with Tomato Sauce. (See 
recipe.) 

Roasted Squal). 

Pigeons Rotis sur CanapSs. 

6 or 8 Young Squab. 

6 or 8 Thin Slices of Fat Bacon. 

4 Tablespoonfnls of Butter. 

Truffles (if desired.) 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

6 or 8 Slices of Buttered Toast. 

Use squab only for roasting. Clean 
nicely, and then truss the pigeon as 
you would a turkey, only use wooden ; 
skewers to hold the wings and legs 
in place. Take a slice of nice fat: 
pork and fasten it around the body, 
of each pigeon, passing over the 
breast. Put a bit of butter about 
the size of a pecan in each bird, and, 
if you can afford to do so, you may 
stuff with truffles. But this is a mat- 
ter of taste. Put the pigeons in the 
roasting pan, and add a tablespoonful 
of butter and about two tablespoon- 
fuls of water. The oven should be 
hot, but must not be scorching. Baste 
the birds frequently, and let them 
roast from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes, according to their size. Pre- 
pare toasted bread, one slice for 
each pigeon. Butter well, and then 
remove the fat pork and place the 
pigeons on the toast. Pour ovp 
each a little of the gravy which has 
been made in the roasting pan, al- 
lowing it to soak into the bread. 
Serve hot, with a jelly, preferably 
Cranberry Sauce. (See recipe.) 



123 



Compote of Pigeons. 

Pigeons en Compote. 

6 Fine Fat Squab. A. Halt Can of MushroomB. 
1 Glove ot Garlic. 
2 Sprigs Each of Xbyme and Parsley, 
1 Bay Lest. 1 Onlou. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Wbite Wine. 
1 Tablespoouful of Butter. 
% Gup of Consomine. 
Clean the squabs nicely; singe, draw 
and truss, ■with their legs inside. Rub 
well with salt and pepper and three 
cloves, ground very fine, and three 
allspice, also ground very fine. Take 
a tablespoonful of butter and melt 
In a saucepan. Add the sliced onion, 
and as it browns add the sliced car- 
rot. Let this simmer gently for 
three or four minutes, and then add 
a minced sprig of thyme, and parsley, 
and one bay leaf, and the clove ot a 
garlic, minced very fine. Let all this 
brown, and then place on tpp the pi- 
geons, which you will have bound in 
thin strips of bacon tied around the 
body. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
white wine and cover well. Let this 
simmer for about fifteen minutes, till 
the pigeons are nicely browned, and 
then add a half cup of consommfi if 
you have it, if not, a half cup of 
boiling water. After ten minutes add 
a half can of mushrooms. Let all 
simmer gently for an hour longer, 
being careful not to let the pigeons 
go to pieces. Watch, therefore, very 
carefully. Place each pigeon on a 
slice of toasted Croflton, and garnish 
with the mushrooms. Pour over the 
gravy, and serve hot. This is a 
most excellent compote. 

Squab With Green Peas. 

Pigeons fitoufffis aux Petit Pois. 

3 Pigeons. 1 Pint of Gieen Peas. 

% Incli of Ham. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful ot Butter. 

IBay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Eaeli of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Glove of Garlic. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the pigeons nicely, leaving 
them whole, as you would a fowl 
that is to be roasted, and truss nice- 
ly. Take two onions and slice well, 
a^d place in a saucepan with a ta- 
blespoonful of melted butter. Let 
them brown slightly, and lay the pi- 
geons that have been rubbed well 
with salt and pepper, inside and out, 
oji top of the onions. Cover closely 
and let them smother. Then add for 
one pigeon one-half or one-quarter 
ot an inch of nice ham, minced very 
fine, to give a good seasoning. Then 
add one sprig of thyme and one bay 
leaf, and the clove of a garlic, minced 
very fine. Let this smother very 
slowly for ten or fifteen minutes. 
When well browned, moisten with a 
cup of consommS or broth, and add 
one pint of fresh green peas, or one 
can. Cover tight, and let all simmer 



over a slow Are for one hour, or 
more if the pigeons are not very 
tender. Serve on a platter, placing 
the pigeons in the center and heaping 
the green peas around. This is 
delicious, ahd the real Creole method 
of cooking pigeons with green peas. 

Pigeons and Crawflsh, 

Pigeons a, la Cardinale. 

3 Pigeons. 2 Dozen Grawflsb. 

1 Slice of Fat Bacon. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 'Onion. 1 Carrot. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Tuste. 

Clean the pigeons nicely, and rub 
inside and out with the juice of a 
lemon. Then rub with salt and pep- 
per, and brush with melted butter. 
Place thin strips of fat bacon in the 
bottom of a saucepan, lay the pi- 
geons on this, and cover with another 
thin layer of strips of bacon. Cover 
with butter and set in a slow oven, 
and let them simmer gently. In the 
meantime prepare a "PoSle" as fol- 
lows: Take a small square inch of 
ham, chop or mince very fine, and 
'■ fry in a tablespoonful of butter. Add 
an onion and a carrot, chopped fine. 
Let these brown, and then add an 
herb bouquet, minced very fine. When 
brown, add a cup of bouillon, and let 
it boil for ten minutes. Pour this 
sauce over the baking pigeons, and 
let them cook slowly for about an 
hour, or until done. In the meantime 
boil about two dozen nice crawfish,, 
according to recipe (see Crawfish), 
and, when the pigeons are done, place 
them on buttered Crofltons and place 
between each a garnish of crawfish. 
Add about a half cup of the broth 
in which the crawfish have been 
boiled to the gravy in the baking 
dish. Let it simmer for five minutes 
till reduced slightly, and pour over 
the pigeons. This is Creole to the 
letter. 

Pigeon Pic, 

Vol-au-Vent de Pigeons. 
6 Toung Wild rigcons. 
1 Onion. 1 Tablespoonful ot Lard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Sprig Each Thyme, Bay Leaf and Parsley. 
Pie Paste. 
Clean and' cut the young pigeons 
into small pieces of about two inches. 
In length and make a plain fricassee. 
(See Fricassee Brown Gravy.) Pre- 
pare a Vol-au-Vent Paste (see recipe) 
and fill a tin pan of about two quarts, 
with the paste. Pour in pigeons and 
gravy, a,nd let bake in the oven till 
the top crust is nicely browned. Al- 
ways bake the under crust first. This 
is a delightful entrSe at any feast. 
Again, the pie may be prepared as 
follows: After cleaning the pigeons, 
stuff each daintily with oyster or 
egg dressing and then loosen the, 
joints with a knife without separat- 



124 



ing them. Put into a stewpan and 


per. Fill the pie dish with the pie 


make a plain fricassee as above in- 


paste; put in the birds, pour over 


dicated. Let them cook until ten- 


t«e gravy, cover with a crust and 


der, and season with salt and pep- 


bake. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 



game:. 



Gibier. 



The number and variety of the 
game of the Louisiana forests have 
been the subject of many a magazine 
and newspaper article, and the admi- 
ration and joy of the chasseurs, or 
hunters, from earliest days. Our 
birds alone are so distinct and re- 
markable that the great Audubon de- 
voted his life to their study, and 
his volume on the birds of Louisiana 
stands out as the greatest work ex- 
tant upon birds. The fact is, that all 
through the year, from January to 
December, fancy game may be found 
in the New Orleans markets, though 
the game laws are very strict, and 
no bird is allowed to be shot out of 
season. 

The venison brought to New Or- 
leans from the woods of St. Tam- 
many's forest and the Teche rivals in 
flavor that of any section, and to 
leave New Orleans without having 
eaten "Filet de Chevreuil k la Poi- 
vrade," or "Salmi de Chevreuil a, la 
CrSole," is to have lost, in the opin- 
ion of old Creole gourmets, half the 
pleasure of your visit. In the same 
manner your visit would be consid- 
ered a failure if you failed to eat 
our famous Louisiana bird, "Paba- 
botte k la Crfiole," or our noted 
"Cailles de Laurier Roties," or Snipe, 
in that wonderful dish. "BScassine 
Saut6e a, la Creole"; or our distinct- 
ive Mallard and Canvasback Ducks, 
in "Salmi de Canards Frangais," or 
"Salmi de Canards Chevals." 

The following are the most ac- 
cepted methods of preparing our ' 
"Fancy Game." The Picayune uses 
the words "Fancy Game" because, 
whil'' blackbirds and all such game 
as are commonly found in forests 
abound in Louisiana, there is always 
such an abundance of our famous 
wild ducks, Poule d'Eau, Quail, Paba- 
botte. Snipe, Woodcock, Grassets, 
Larks,' Robins, Reed Birds and other 
delicious game in their season, that 
even the humblest seldom think of 
placing any other upon their tables. 
Our hunting clubs are many, and 
the Creole chasseurs, from the high- 



est to the lowest rank, are famous 
shots, bagging great quantities of 
game while on the hunt, and often 
as not courteously supplying the ta- 
bles of their neighbors for squares 
around when they return from their 
weekly sport. It is quite the proper 
thing among ancient families, when 
the gentlemen go on a hunt, for 
them to send, upon their return, a 
pair of Teal, Mallard or Canvasback 
Ducks, or a dozen Quail or Paba- 
bottes, BSoassines or BScasses, to 
Madame or Mademoiselle So-and-So, 
"Avec les Compliments de Monsieur 

, le Chasseur." These pretty 

little neighborly courtesies are among 
the most delightful forms of life in 
the Old French Quarter. 



Soiuetblns to Remember When Cook. 
Ing Game. 

Game should never be fried. This 
is horrible. The larger game is 
roasted or broiled, or, as with ducks 
and venison, squirrels and rabbits, 
made into stews or "salmis." The 
smaller game is roasted or broiled. 

VENISOJf. 

Du Chevreuil. 

The meat of Venison may be kept 
in cold weather at least ten or twelve 
days, if hung in a cold place; in 
warm weather for much less time, 
unless dried. The meat of fresh 
Venison is of a fine grain, and is al- 
ways nicely covered'fldvith fat. The 
age of the deer can always be told 
by examining the hoofs; if it is 
young, the hoofs will be very slightly 
opened; if old, they will stand apart. 
Of all meats. Venison cooks the most 
rapidly. Venison is always best 
when the deer has been killed in 
the autumn. Wild berries are then 
plentiful and the animal has then 
abundant opportunity to fatten upon 
this and other fresh, wild food.. 



125 



Roast Haunch of Venison, 

Cuissot de Chevreuil Roti. 

A Hauncb or Saddle of Venison. 
Melted Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Watercress to Garnish. Cnrrant Jelly, 
Prepare the haunch or saddle of 
Venison in the same manner as you 
would the roast beef. (See recipe 
Roast Beef.) Only pour a cup of 
water over the venison when put- 
tins in the oven, for it is a dry meat, 
and requires a little moistening if 
roasted. Bake in a quick oven, al- 
lowing ten minutes to the pound. 
A haunch of Doe Venison will re- 
quire in the aggregate half an hour 
less time to roast than Buck Veni- 
son. To prevent the hoof and hair 
just above changing color in cooking 
always bind this with a coarse piece 
of muslin, in four or five pieces of 
thickness, covering the hoof and hair. 
Wet with cold water, and bind a 
buttered paper tightly around and 
over it. Baste every ten minutes, 
with melted butter first, and then 
with the drippings of the Venison. 
When half cooked, turn the venison 
over, so that the other side ' may 
CBOk. Unbind the hoofs and garnish 
them with quilled paper. Place the 
venison on a dish garnished with 
Watercress. Serve with Currant 
Jelly. (See recipe.) 

Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly 
Sauce, 

Selle de Chevreuil, Sauce Groseille. 
A Saddle of Venison Weighing About 5 Pounds. 
1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 
% Tablespoonful of Butter. 
% Glass of Madeira Wine. 
1 Gill of Consonwne. 
Cnrrant Jelly Sauce. 
Skin the Venison neatly and re- 
move all the sinews from the surface. 
Take fine larding needles and lard 
closely. Tie the saddle around four 
times. Slice the carrot and onion 
and put in the resting pan. Place 
the Saddle of Venison on top of these 
sprinkle lightly with a pinch of salt, 
and spread a half tablespoonful of 
butter over. Set in a brisk oven and 
roast for forty minutes, frequently 
basting the venison with its own 
gravy. Before taking it from the 
pan, remove the cord ■which binds 
It and place the saddle in a hot 
dish. Then pour the Madeira wine 
and a gill of veal consommS into the 
pan, set on the stove and let it come 
to a boil. Then skim the gravy of 
all fat and st5itjn over the veinson. 
Serve with a hot Currant Jelly Sauce 
as follows: Take a half pint of Cur- 
rant Jelly and stir till it is thor- 
oughly dissolved. Then put in a 
saucepan a wlneglassful of good old 
Port wine, and set on the stove and 
let It come gradually to a bdil. Add 
the currant jelly and mix tilj, thor- 



oughly dissolved; then add a table- 
spoonful of Sauce Espagnole (see re- 
cipe) and let it again come to a boil 
Serve with the venison, sending each 
to the table separately. 

Venison steaks broiled may also 
be served with this sauce The 

steaks are placed in a dish, one over- 
lapping the other; the hot sauce is 
poured over and thus sent to the 
table. 

Venison Steaks ft la Poivrade. 

Filet de Chevreuil a la Poivrade. 

6 Filets or as Many Filets as Desired. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. A Sauce Poivrade. 

The filets or Venison steaks are 
taken from any part of the Venison. 
The best are from the haunch or leg, 
and cut three-quarters of an inch iri 
thickness. Rub them well with salt 
and pepper, and then fry in butter, 
allowing about five minutes to the 
Steak. Venison must be served on 
a very hot dish and eaten hot. Place 
in a heated dish, and garnish with 
melted butter and chopped parsleyj 
and serve with' a Sauce Poivrade 
for Venison (see recipe), pouring the 
sauce over the steaks. This is a 
delicious dish. 

Venison Cutlets Broiled. 

Cotelettes de Chevreuil GrilUes. 

6 Venison Cutlets. 

2 TaWespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and • Pepper to Taste. 

Watercress to Garnish. 

Trim the cutlets nicely, rub well 
with salt and pepper, brush with a 
little butter, and broil over a quick 
clear fire, allowing about eight min- 
utes, or less, according to size, to each 
cutlet. They, must always, like all 
Venison, be underdone. When 
cooked, place in a very hot dish, 
pour over a little melted butter and 
'chopped parsley, garnish with water 
cress, and serve with Currant Jelly. 

Ste^ved Venison ft la Creole, 

Salmi de Chevreuil a. la Creole. 

Venison Steaks, or Rougher Part of the Deer, 

2 Onions. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Fine. 

1 Glass of Claret. 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

The rougher parts of Venison are 
usually used for stewing, but the 
dish is most delicious when made of 
the Venison steaks. Cut the Veni- 
son into two-inch square pieces, and 
rub well with salt and pepper. Chop 
two onions very fine, and put them in 
a stewpan with a tablespoonful of 
melted butter. Let them brown 
slightly; then add the Venison meat. 
Let it brown slightly, and then add 
one tablespoonful of flour, and let 



126 



tbSs. brown a little.. Chop the square 
inch of ham very fine, mincing it, and 
add. Then add the clove of garlic, 
and two sprigs each of thyme and 
parsley and a bay leaf, minced fine. 
l..et this Drown nicely, and pour over 
one glass of good Claret. Let this 
cook for ten minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly, so that it will not burn, and 
then add one cup of boiling water. 
Stir well, season again to taste, and 
let it boil for thirty, minutes, and 
serve hot. This dish will be im- 
proved beyond estimation if a can 
of mushrooms is added, immediately 
after adding the water.. But it may 
be made without the mushrooms. 
Serve very hot. 

Yenison, Hunters' Style. 

Chevreuil k la Chasseur. 

' 3' Pounds of Venison Meat. 

Z TablespoonfulB of Butter. 

1 'Onion. 1 Square Incli of Ham. ' 

1 TaUespoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 2 Sprigs of Thyme. 

2 Bay Leaves. 

% Box of Mushrooms. The Zest of a Lemon. 

1 Glass of White Wine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Croutons to Garnish. 

Cut the venison into pieces of 
about two inches square. Salt and 
pepper well. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter into a saucepan with the 
venison and let it brown slowly. 
When nearly brown, add an onion, 
chopped fine, and let this brown 
slightly; then add the ham, minced 
very fine, and the clove of garlic and 
bay leaves and thyme, minced very 
fine. Stir in with the rabbit and let 
these brown for about two minutes. 
Then add a tablespoonful of flour 
and brown for a few minutes more. 
Add a half bottle of White Wine and 
let all simmer for five rtiinutes. Then 
add a quart of consommfe or water 
and let all cook for about one hour. 
Season again according to taste and 
add a half can of mushrooms 
chopped fine and the zest of a lemon 
and season again to taste. Let all 
cook a half hour longer and serve 
on a hot dish with CroQtons fried in 
butter. • ■ . 

Stewed Venison, French Style. 

Civet ae Chevreuil k la Frangaise. 

2% Pounds of Venison, (the lower and lean 

part preferable.) 

A Handful of Parsley. 1 Onion. 

t SpMg of Tbyjne. -2 Bay Leaves. 

12 Whole Peppers. A Half Glass of Vinegar. 

1% Glass of Claret. 

1 Pint of Veal Consomme. 

1 Ounce of Salt Pork. 12 Small Onions. 

1 Dozen and a Half -Mushrooms. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. Croutons. 

Cut the venison into small pieces 
of about two inches square. Make a 
"Marinade" by placing the venison 
in an earthen jat "with one large 
onion sliced, a haudful of parsley. 



the chopped thyme and- bay leaf, the 
whole peppers, a light seasoning of 
salt and black pepper, and the vine- 
gar; Let the venison marinate for 
twelve hours. Then drain It from the 
juice and place it in a saucepan with 
one tablespoonful of the best butter, 
and let it brown over a moderate 
Are. After ten minutes add three ta- 
blespoonfuls of flour and stir con- 
stantly. Then moisten with the con- 
somme and the claret. Season again 
to taste with satt and pepper, and 
stir until it comes to a boil. Then 
add -the small onions which have been 
nicely peeled, and one ounce of salt 
pork and the herb bouquet. Let all 
cook about forty minutes, and about 
five minutes' before serving add the 
mushrooms. Take the herb bouquet 
from the preparation; place the latter 
on a hot dish and decorate nicely 
with tbasted Crotltons, and serve hot. 

Tenison In a Chafing; Dish. 

Chevreuil au Rfechaud. 

8 or 10 Slices of Venison. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter, 
1 Tablespoonful of Currant Jelly. 
1 Tablespoonful of Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This is a most delicious way of 
preparing Venison. The old Creoles 
use, if a chafing dish is not avail- 
able, a little alcohol lamp and a fry- 
ing pan. Even the humblest families 
can thus enjoy- this delightful disli. 
Slice the venison very thin in pieces 
about two inches long a,nd one inch 
wide, and about- the thickness of a 
silver dollar. Have the chafing dish 
or alcohol lamp on the dining table, 
as you sit to eat. The pan must be 
very hot. The meat must be well- 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
ready to put into the pan. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter into the dish. 
Let it get very hot, without burning. 
Put the, slices of Venison in tli^ disli. 
In one minute turn them over. Take 
a tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
blend w.ell with a tablespoonful of 
Currant Jelly and a tablespoonful of 
water. Spread this over the cooking 
Venison. Turn again. Let it cook 
for five minutes only, and serve very 
hot. -This is one of the finest old- 
fashioned Creole dishes, and is good 
for breakfast, luncheon or supper. 
Bear in mind that to be efCeotiye It 
must be made at the table, as it will 
lose half its flavor if brought from 
the kitchen to the table.- 

Venison Hash. 

Hachis de Chevreuil. 

3 Cups of Left Over VenlsOn. 
6 Potatoes. 1 ' Herb Banquets 
■ Salt ■ and -Pepper -to >Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard .or Battel. < 

This "is a splendid way of utlllzrng 



127 



tjie left-over veniaon. After having 
taken off all the rough edges of the 
roast and cut out the gristle and 
hard membrane, hash the "Venison in- 
to pieces of about one-inch in size. 
Take six left-over tomatoes, or fresh- 
ly boiled, and cut into Quarters. Chop 
fine one herb bouquet. Place a table- 
spoonful of butter or a half table- 
spoonful of lard into the stewpot, 
and as it melts add the venison, sea- 
soned well, and a few minutes later 
the fine herbs. Mince the clove of a 
garlic if the flavor is liked and add. 
Stir constantly vsritliout browning 
'much, and add a tablespoonful of 
flour. Let this brown very slightly, 
and then add the tomatoes. Cover 
and let all simmer for about twenty 
minutes, and then pour over a pint 
of boiling water. Season again to 
taste and set back on the stove and 
let it simmer gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour. Cut some Crofl- 
tons and fry them in butter; place 
on a dish and serve with the hash. 
WILD TURKEY. 
Dinde Sauvage. 
The wild turkey abounds in Lou- 
isiana. It is roasted in the same man- 
ner as the domestic fowl (see recipe) 
and always served with Cranberry 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 

WILD DUCKS. 

Canards Sauvages. 

The wild ducks so much enjoyed in 
Louisiana are many, but the most fa- 
mous are the Canvasback Ducks, or 
"Canards Cheval," thS ipore delicate 
'Teal Ducks," or "Sarcelles," and 
the noted Mallard Ducks, or "Ca- 
nards Frangais." Then we have a 
soecies of water fowl palled the 
"Poule d'Eau," or water chicken, 
which lives exclusively in the waters 
xjf the Louisiana bayous and marshes; 
as it never comes on dry land, it has 
heen classed by the ancient Creoles 
among the fish, and is eaten on Fri- 
days and fast days, when flesh meat 
Is . prohibited to Catholics. 

in following the recipes given be- 
low, it must be borne in mind that 
all tame or domestic ducks may be 
cooked in the same manner as the 
wild ducks. For this reason it would 
tie superfluous to give a special sec- 
tion te the former. But the flavor of 
the wild duck is such that it is al- 
ways preferred on Creole tables as 
the sTiperior bird. Ducks are stewed 
or roasted. The wild goose, or "Oie 
Sayvage," is cooked in the same man- 
ner as the wild duck and the domes- 
tic goose. The "Duckling," or "Can- 
neton," in the same manner as the 
delicate 'Teal Duck" or "Sarcelle." 
' In cleaning all game, remember 
that they must be hand picked, and 
ne-irer scalded, as scalding utterly 
ruins their flavor. "Wild Duck should 
hot be dressed too soon after being 
killed. ■ 1 .1 I - -■ 



Canvasback Duck. 

Canard Cheval. 

Epicureans declare that the Can- 
vasback Duck Is the King of Birds. 
And as it feeds mostly on wild cel- 
ery, it requires no flavors or spices 
to make it perfect. The bird par- 
takes of the flavor of the celery 
on which it feeds. This delicious 
flavor is best preserved when the 
duck is roasted quickly with a hot 
fire. And so' also with the dainty 
Mallard or French Ducks. 

Mallard Ducks or Canvasback Ducks 
Roasted. 

Canards Frangais ou Canard Cheval 
Rotis. 

1 Pair of "Wild Ducks. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. Salt and Pepper 

to Taste. 

Clean the d.ucks as you would a 
chicken, without scalding, however, 
ninse out the inside and wipe well 
inside and out with a wet towel. 
But do not wash the duck unless you 
have broken the gall bladder, as the 
washing destroys their flavor. Rub 
the inside well with salt and pepper, 
and rub outside as thoroughly. Place 
a three-inch lump of butter on the 
inside. Truss nicely and place the 
ducks in a baking pan, and brush the 
tops with melted butter. Pour over 
two tablespoonfuls of water, and set 
in a very hot oven, and allow them 
to bake twenty minutes, if they are 
not very large, and thirty minutes, 
if larger than the ordinary size of 
Canvasback ducks. A wild duck" is 
never cooked dry. It must reach the 
point where the blood will not run 
if the flesh is pierced with the fork 
in carving. When done, place the 
ducks in a very hot dish, and serve 
with their own gravy poured over 
them. Garnish nicely with parsley 
or water cress. Serve with Currant 
Jelly. Always have the plates very 
hot in which you serve the ducks at 
table. 

Broiled Canvasback Ducks. 

Canards Cheval Grillfies. 

1 Pair of Ducks. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive OU. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Minced Parsley to Garnish. 

The Canvasback Duck is very ex- 
cellent when broiled. Hunters often 
serve it thus when on long hunts, 
and it is said the taste of the game 
just bagged is beyond estimate. 
Broiled Canvasbacks are served as 
follows on the Creole table: Clean 
the duck nicely, as for broiling a 
chicken, wipe well and split down 
the middle of 'the back in the same 
manner as for a chicken. Season 
well with salt and pepper. Rub the 



128 



duck well with olive oil of the best 
quality, and place on the broiler. 
Turn it over at least twice, so that 
It will cook thoroughly through and 
through without burning'. Let it 
cook from seven to ten n^inutes on 
either side. Place on a dish that is 
very hot, pour over a Drawn Butter 
Sauce, in which you will have 
squeezed the juice of a lemon, and 
mixed some minced parsley. Deco- 
rate with water cress or parsley 
sprigs. Bring to the ' table covered 
6,nd very hot, and serve on heated 
plates. This dish is very elegant. 

Stevrea 'Wild Ducks. 

Salmi de Canards Sauvages a, la 

Creole. 

1 Pair of Ducks. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 2 Oniouia. 

1 lablespoonful of Butter. 1 Glove uf Garlic. 

1 Herb Bouquet Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Glass of Claret. 1 Cup of Water. 

Clean and pijk the duckp nicely. 
Cut into joints, or stew whole, as 
desired. The Creoles generally cut 
them into joints. Rub well with salt 
and pepper. Chop two onions very 
fine. Put them into the stewpan 
with a tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter, and let them brown slightly. 
Then add the well-seasoned ducks. 
Let these brown well and add the 
one square inch of finely minced ham. 
Add the clove of garlic and two 
sprigs each of thyme, parsley and 
one bay leaf, minced very fine. Let 
this brown with the ducks, stirring 
frequently, and then pour over one 
good glass 'of claret. Let this sim- 
mer for ten minutes, stirring con- 
stantly, so that it will not burn, and 
add one cup of boiling water. Sea- 
son well to taste, and let the ducks 
simmer well for about an hour. 

Ducks Stevved "With Muslirooms. 

Salmi de Canards aux Champignons. 

1 Pair of Ducks. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 

2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 
1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Very Fine. 
1 Glass of Claret. 1 Cup of Water. 
1 Can of Mushrooms. 
Prepare the Ducks for cooking ex- 
actly as in the above recipe and pro- 
ceed to cook accordingly., Immedi- 
ately after adding the boiling water 
add' a can of mushrooms, and con- 
tinue cooking according to recipe. 
The mushrooms add a delicous flavor 
to the dish. Serve hot, using the 
mushrooms as a garnish. 

'Vl'Ud Ducks, Hunters' Style.' 

Salmi de Canards Sauvages a, la 
Chasseur. ^ 

2 Fine Canvas-Back Ducks. 
% Pint of 'Veal Broth or Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Dozen Mushrooms. Sliced, 

3 Fresh or Canned Tomatoes. 

1 Onion. 
% Glass of Madeira Wine or Lemon Juice. 



% Pl'jt of Sauce Espagnole. 
The Zest of 1 Lemon. 
Croutons. 
Pick the ducks; singe, draw, and, 
after rinsing clean within, wipe neat- 
ly within and without; cut off the 
wings, legs and breasts; then take 
the two carcasses and sprinkle right- 
ly with salt and place in the oven 
to bake about six minutes. Then re- 
move the carcasses and hash them 
up. Put them into the saucepan; 
add a pint of veal broth, consommfr 
or water in lieu of either of these. 
Add a herb bouquet tied together] 
and let the preparation simmer for 
about a quarter of an hour over a 
moderate fire. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter into a saucepan, and lay in 
the wings, breasts and legs of the 
Ducks; season lightly with salt and 
pepper, and set on a very brisk Are 
and let cook (or a few minutes, on 
either side. Now add a half glassful 
of Madeira wine and a half pint of 
Sauce Espagnole and the grated zest 
of a lemon. Take the gravy from 
the carcasses and strain over the 
Ducks, and allow all to cook about a 
quarter of an hour. Then place on 
a hot dish and decorate nicely wi,th 
Crofltons fried in butter and cut in 
dice shape. 

Ducks ft la Bonr^eoise. 

Salmi de Canards a. la Bourgeoise. 
2 Fine Canvas-Back Ducks. 

1 Tablespoonful, of Butter. 
3 Tomatoes (fresh or canned). 
12 Onions. 2 Carrots. 

% Glass of Madeira Wine. 
The Zest of 1 Lemon. 
Vi Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 
% Pint of Consomme or Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Pfepare the Ducks, ajid cook ac- 
cording to above recipe. After plac- 
ing finally in the saucepan, add 
■ twelve small onions which have been 
nicely glazed (see recipe "Glaze"); 
add the two carrots cut into small 
dice and which have been cooked in 
salted water for two minutes, be- 
fore adding to the ducks; also add 
a half ounce of salt pork cut into 
half-inch pieces. Let these cook for 
fifteen minutes with the ducks and 
serve on a hot dish with Crofltons. 
Stewed Ducks 'Wlfh Turnips. 
Salmi de Canards aux Navets. 
1 Pair of Ducks. 6 Turnips. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Onions, Chopped Fine. 

1 Sqpare Inch of Ham, Minced Very Fine. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

This is one of the most delightful 
w^ys:"of cooking wild ducks. The 
turnip blends well with the flavor of 
the wi^d ducks, and a nicer way of 
serving this vegetable In combination, 
does not exist. Clean the Ducks, and. 



129 



cut into pieces at the joints. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter into the pot, 
and as it melts, add the onions, 
chopped fine. Let this brown, and 
then add the pieces of Ducks. Let 
them brown, and add the minced 
ham. Immediately after add the tur- 
nips, sliced or cut in quarters, a ta- 
blespoonful of sifted flour. Stir 
well, let the flour brown slightly, 
and add the minced thyme, parsley 
and bay leaf, and one clove of gar- 
lic, minced very fine. Stir well 
again, and let it smother for about 
fifteen minutes, stirring frequently, 
so that it will not burn. Then add 
water, almost sufficient to cover the 
Ducks, and stir well. Cover tight, 
and let the mixture smother for a 
halt hour longer. You will have one 
of the nicest dishes that ever graced 
a table. 

Wild Ducks Wltb Olives. 

Salmi de Canards aux Olives. 

3 Cups of Left-Over Duck. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Onion. 

E Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Cup of Broth or Water. 

1 Glass of Claret. 

2 Dozen Spanish Olives. 

Toasted Croutons. 
This is a nice way to utilize the 
left-over Duck; take all the remains 
of the Duck and selcet the good 
parts, and cut them into pieces of 
about an inch and a half square. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter into the 
stewpan, and, as it browns, add one 
onion, chopped fine. Let this brown 
and then add the Duck. Stir well; 
add the tablespoonful of sifted flour, 
stir again, and in four or five minutes 
add two sprigs each of thyme and 
parsley and one bay leaf, minced very 
fine. Let this brown well, and 
smother nicely for about ten minutes. 
Add a pint of good broth if you have 
it; if not, a cup of boiling water. 
Stir well, and season again accord- 
ing to taste. Pour in a half glass of 
good Claret, and add about two dozen 
fine olives, stoned. Let all boil for 
thirty minutes longer, and serve hot, 
with garnish of diamond-shaped 
toasted Crofltons. 

Stewed Ducks, Peasant Style. 

Salmi de Canarcis a, la Paysanne. 

1 Pair of Fine Ducks, French or Canvas-Back. 

1 Dozen Glazed Onions. 2 Carrots. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Cup of Green Peas. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Glass of Madeira or Sherry Wine. 

The Zest of 1 Lemon. 

Prepare the Ducks exactly as in 



the recipe for "Stewed Ducks With 
Turnips (see recipe), only the turnips 
are omitted. Add two carrots cut 
into dice pieces, and twelve glazed 
onions and the green peas. A quar- 
ter of an hour before serving add 
a glass of Madeira wine. Serve on a 
hot disli, with Crofltons fried in but- 
ter, using the onions as a garnish 
with the Crofltons. 

SteTved Ducks, French Marshal Style. 

Salmi de Canards a. la Marechale 
Pratisalse. 

1 Pair of Fine Ducks, French or Canvas-Back, 
12 Godlveau Quenelles. 12 Mushrooms. 

2 Onions Chopped Fine. 1 Bay Leaf, 

3 Sprigs EacU of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Square Inch of Ham, 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Glass of Madeira or Sherry Wine. 
Croutons to Garnish. 
Prepare the Ducks exactly as in 
the recipe for "Stewed Ducks With 
Turnips," omitting the turnips. Add 
ten minutes before serving, twelve 
small Godiveau Quenelles (see re- 
cipe) and the wine. Garnish the 
dish with Croutons (see recipe) and 
twelve nicely cooked mushrooms, 
cut in two. Send to the table hot. 

Cold Wild Duck. 

Canards Sauvages Froid. '• 
Remains of Cold Duck. , I 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. . 1 

■% Tumbler of Currant Jelly. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Port Wine. 
Cut the cold Wild Duck nicely in 
thick slices, and serve with a sauce 
made as follows: Take one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half tumbler 
of Currant Jelly, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of good Port wine. Warm the 
butter in the saucepan, add the wine 
and jelly, thoroughly blended; mix 
well, and serve with the slices of cold 
duck. The duck may also be served 
very deliciously with Currant Jelly 
alone, and buttered toast. 

Teal Duck, J 

Sarcelle. 
The Teal Duck is the smallest and 
most delicate of the wild ducks. It 
is prepared in the same manner as 
the Mallard, preference, however, be- 
ing always given to roasting and 
'broiling, on account of its size. The 
Teal Duck is always broiled whole, 
without splitting on the back. 

Teal Ducks Roasted. 

Sarcelles Roties. 

3 Pairs of Teal Ducks. 

6 Thin Strips of Bacon. 

6 Truffles. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

6 Slices of Toast. 
Currant Jelly. 
Clean the duck nicely and put ono 



130 



,- truffle and a lump of butter about 

' the size of a peanut, with salt and 
pepper, on the inside. Rub well with 
salt and pepper and a little butter 
melted. Take a thin strip of bacon 
and bind it around the body of the 
duck, fastening with a skewer. Place 
a, tablespoonful of butter in the roast- 
ing pan, and pour about two table- 

' spoonfuls of water in it, dropping 
slightly over each bird. Set in a 

.•quick' o.Ven and bake for thirty min- 
utes, or until done. The l>ird 
should always be served umierdOne. 
Have ready • a hot dish, garnislied 

■with parsley, and a slice of toast 
buttered for each bird. Place the I 

•birds on them, sprinkle over chopped 
parsley, and take the juice in which \ 

•'the birds have been roasted, pour 'a j 
little over each bird, so that It sinks i 
down into the toast, and squeeze a 
little lemon juice over each, and serve 
hot. ' 

The truffle majr be omitted, but it < 

' is considered very elegant. The bird 
is just as good without, however, 
and it is within the reach of the 

■ poorest, simply for the hunting. Serve ; 
with Currant Jelly. 

Teal Duck Broiled. 

Sarcelle Grillfie. 

3 Paira of Teal Ducks. 

6 Strips of Bacon. 

Melted Butter. Chopped , Parsley. 

Olives and Slices of Lemon to Garnlsli. 

6 Slices ot Toast. 

Clean and prepare the duck in ex- 
actly the same manner as for- roast- : 

I Ing, binding with the strip of bacon. 

• Place on a broiler, turning frequent- 
ly, and let it broil for about thirty 
minutes, . very slowly. Serve with 
melted butter and chopped parsley' 
spread o^er, and the juice of a; 
lemon squeezed in. Garnish the dish 
nicely with sprigs of parsley, slices 
of lemon and olives. Serve with 
Currant Jelly. 

Teal Duck ft la Blgarade. 

Sarcelle S. la Bigarade.' 

3 Fairs of Teal Ducks. 
1 Brigarade or Sour Orange. 
Salt and Pepper to -Taste. 

A Sauce a I'Espagnole. 

Clean the ducks and take the livers 
and fry them in a little melted butter. 
Season well with salt and pepper and 
a slight pinch of ground allspice and 

■ cloves and the zest of a "bigarade," 
or sour orange. If the orange is not 
available, take the zest of a lemon. 
The zest Is the skin of the orange or 
lemon, scraped off without touching 
the inner pulp, or white skin. Place 
this in the interior of the ducks (you 

imust have the boiled livers of five 
or six for the garnishment of two 
ducks), and then rub the outside 
well with salt and pepper. Bind 

5 with a strip of bacon and place on 



the broiler. In about thirty rajnutej 
it win be done. Cook over a slow 
fire, turning frequently. In the mean- 
time prepare a "Sauce k I'Espagnole," 
and as soon as the birds are done 
pour off from the broiler all the juice 
that has fallen, and put this into 
the sauce, with the juice of two sour 
oranges or citrons. Let it warm with- 
out boiling, pour over the birds, 
which you have placed on buttered 
toast, and serve hot. This is an 
ancient Creole dish, almost lost in 
our day, but which deserves to be 
resurrected. 

Stewed Rabbit. 
Salmi de Lapins. 

A Fair ot Rabbits. 

2 Onions. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful ot Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Fine. 

1 Glass of Claret. ' 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

Stewed rabbit is a great dish 
kmong the Creoles. They say that 
this is the only way to cook a rab- 
bit. Proceed as follows: 

Skin and clean the rabbit. Wash 
well and cut into pieces at the joints, 
and rub well -with salt and pepper. 
Chop two onions very fine, and put 
them in the stew^pan -with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Let them 
brow^n slightly; then add the rabbit. 
Let it brown slightly, and then adct 
one tablespoonful of flour, and let 
this brown a little. Chop the square 
inch of ham very fine, mincing it, 
and add. Then add the clove of gar- 
lic, and tw^o sprigs each of thyme 
and parsley and a bay leaf, minced 
fine. Let this brown nicely, and pour 
over one glass of good Claret. Let 
this cook for ten minutes, stirring 
it constantly, so that it will not burn, 
and then add one cup ot boiling wa- 
ter. Stir well, season again to taste, 
and let it boil for thirty minutes, and 
serve hot. Green peas or potatoes, 
boiled or mashed, make a nice entrSa 
for this dish. 

Rabbit, Hunters' Style. 

Lapin k la Chasseur. 

A Pair of Rabbits. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Onion. 1 Slice of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 2 Sprigs ot Thyme. 

2 Bay Leaves. 

% Box ot Mushrooms. The Zest of a Lemoli. 

Vi Bottle of Claret Wine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Croutons to Garnish. 

Prepare the rabbit; clean and 
■dra-w, and cut into pieces at the 
joints. Rub well with salt and pep- 
per; put a tablespoonful of butter 
into the saucepan with the rabbit and 
let it brown slowly. When nearly 
brown, add the onion, chopped fine, 



and let this brown sjightly. Then 
add the ham, minced very fine, and 
the clove and garlic ahd bay leaves 
and thyme, minced very fine. Stir 
with the rabbit, and let these brown 
for about two minutes; then add a 
tablespoonful of flour and brown for 
a .few minutes; add a half bottle of 
Claret wine and let all simmer for 
five minutes; then add a quart of 
conso-mm6 or water, an-d let all cook 
for about one hour. Season accord- 
ing to taste. Add a half can of 
mushrooms, chopped fine, and the 
iest of a lemon and again season to 
taste. Let all cook for a half hour 
longer and serve on a hot dish, with 
Crotttons. fried In butter. 

Rabbit en Matelote. 

Lapin en Matelote. 

A Pair of Rabbits. 
2 Tablespoonfuls ot Lard or Butted. 
2 Tablespoonfuls ot Floor. 
' 6 Fresh, Large Tomatoes, or a Half Can. 

1 Large Onion, Chopped Fine. 
3 Sprigs Each of Thyme, Sweet 'Marjoram, 

Parsley and Bay Leaf. 
t Glass of Good Claret, or the Juice of 1 
' Lemon. 
1 Quart of Water or Consomme. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Bash pt Cayenne. 
Skin, clean, wash and out the rab- 
bit into pieces at the joints. Put the 
lard or butter into a deep stewpan or 
kettle. When hot, add gradually two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent burning. Throw 
in about ten or twelve well-mashed 
allspice, and three sprigs each of 
chopped thyme, parsley, bay leaf and 
sweet marjoram, one clove of garlic, 
and one large onion, chopped very 
fine. Add six fresh large tomatoes, 
chopped fine, or one-half can of to- 
matoes. Pour in one glass of good 
claret, add about one quart of water, 
and let it boil well. Then add salt 
and Cayenne to taste, and, when this 
has boiled about five minutes, add 
the rabbit, putting in piece by piece. 
Add the Juice of a lemon, and let all 
boil about ten minutes. Serve with 
French Pried Potatoes, Mashed Pota- 
toes, or Potato Croquettes. 

HARB. 

L16vre. 

The hare and the rabbit are very 
much alike, the . closest relationship 
existing between the two. The prin- 
cipal difference is that the rabbit is 
smaller in size than the hare, and its 
ears and legs are shorter. 
[ The hare may be cooked In almost 
any manner in which rabbits are 
served. There are, however, some 
special methods in vogue among the 
Creoles which are here appended. In 
preparing the hare for roasting, it 
should be first skinned, and then 
washed well in cold water and rinsed 



thoroughly in tepid water. If the 
hare seems a little musty from beini 
emptied before being hung up, rul 
the insides well with vinegar and 
again wash thoroughly In warm wa- 
ter. Prepare for cooking as you 
would a rabbit, wipe well with a soft 
towel, dress nicely, sew the animal 
up and truss it, and allow it to roast 
from three-quarters of an hour to 
one hour, according to size. Baste 
occasionally with butter, just before 
serving. Of late, the hare is much 
affected by epicures. Many con- 
sider the meat far more tender and 
of more deHcate flavor than the rab- 
bit. It is generally served with Cur- 
rant Jelly. 

Hare, Roasted and Stuffed. 

LiSvre Koti. 

2 Fine Hares. 3 Onjons. 

1 Carrot. 3 Apples. 

2 Ou&ces ot Sausage Meat. 

6 Mushrooms. 1 Lemon. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 

2 ClOTes. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Glass of White Wine or Cider. 

1 Pint of Consomme. ' 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Slices ot Bacon. 

% Tablespoonful ot Pepper, 

^ Tablespoourul of Salt. 

Croutons. 

Select two fine Hares, and cut 
them in half. Separate the hindquar- 
ters from the fore and then bone 
them down to the legs. Do not bone 
the legs. Place the Hares in an 
earthern dish that is quite deep, 
then make a marinade as follows: 
Pour in a glassful of white wine; 
add a small lemon nicely sliced, and a 
small onion minced fine, one sprig of 
thyme and one bay leaf, all minced 
very fine. Season this preparation 
with a tablespoonful of salt and a 
tablespoonful of pepper and two 
mashed cloves. Take the saddles of 
the Hares and roll them well in this,, 
and let the entire Hares steep well 
in the marinade for twelve hours. 

Chop an onion very fine and put it 
In a saucepan on the stove, and, 
when well heated, put in a table- 
spoonful of butter, cook for one min- 
ute, and then add two ounces of fine 
chaurice (sausage) (see recipe); 
chopped very fine; six mushrooms, 
chopped very fine; a teaspoonful of 
minced parsley, a teaspoonful of salt 
and a half teaspoonful of pepper; 
mix well and let all cook for about 
five minutes. Take three fine apples 
and cut them fine, carefully remov- 
ing the cores; place them in a clean 
saucepan .on the fire, with a half 
glassful of good White Wine or the 
best Cider. Let this boil about five 
minutes, and then add the stuffing 
and mix well together. Then set the 
mixture to cool. Take the . Hares 
from the marinade and stuff tha 



132 



boned saddles very carefully and 
evenly, and give a nice round, even 
shape; tie them' to keep tKem firm; 
then place a fine slice of bacon over 
each saddle, tying firmly. Cut up a 
carrot and onion into fine slices and 
place in the bottom of the roasting 
pan; lay the Hares over these and 
pour one pint of consommg over the 
Hares. Place them in a hot oven and 
roast for three-quarters of an hour, 
basting frequently with their own 
gravy. Then remove from the oven 
and untie. Place the Hares on a 
hot dish nicely decorated with dice- 
shaped Crofltons, and pour the gravy 
over the Hares and serve very hot. 

Hare, . Creole Style. 

Civet de LiSvre a. la Creole. 

1 Fine, Tender Hare 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Dozen Small Onions^ 

3 Tomatoes. 

1 Ounce of Minced Ham. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

% Glass of White Wine. 

% Glass of Red Wine. 

1% Tablespoonfuls of Salt. 

1^ Tablespoonfuls of Pepper. 

1 Pint of Consomme or Water. 

Skin, clean, draw and thoroughly 
wash a fine tender Hare. Preserve 
the liver and heart. Cut the Hare 
Into pieces at the joints. Make a 
marinade by taking a half glass of 
White "Wine, one large finely-sliced 
onion, the thyme and bay leaves 
(finely minced), and place in a stone 
jar. Add a, half teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg and a tablespoonful 
of salt, and place in this mixture the 
cut-up Hare, and let all steep for 
six hours. Then lift the pieces out 
carefully; have 1-eady a saucepan into 
which you will have placed a tea- 
spoonful of butter, and add twelve 
small onions, glazed (see recipe); 
one ounce of ham, minced fine; put 
the Hare into the pan and let all 
brown nicely for about ten minutes. 
Then add the flour, finely rubbed, stir 
well and let brown. Add the toma- 
toes, peeled and sliced fine; let all 
brown ten minutes longer, and add 
the red wine and the consomm§ or 
water. Stir till it begins to boil; 
then season according to taste, with 
salt and pepper. Let all cook for 
three quarters of an hour, and add 
the heart and liver, which you will 
have finely chopped and thoroughly 
mixed together. Let all cook for 
a quarter of an hour longer and 
serve with toasted Crofltons. 



Stewed Bare With Onions. 

Gibelotte de LiSvre. 

1 Fine Hare. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Dozen Small Onlonj. 

1 Ounce of Ham. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

1 Glass of White W^ine. 

% Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Pint of Consomme or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare in exactly the same man. 
ner as above indicated, only do not 
use the tomatoes or red wine; use 
instead of the claret, one pint of 
broth or consommfi, and add a half 
can of mushrooms about ten minutes 
before serving. 

Filet of Hare, Sauce Polvrade. 

Filet de Lifivre, Sauce Poivrade. 
2 Fine Hares. 2 Onions. 

2 Carrots. A Half Glass of White Wloe. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

1 Cup of Broth or Water. 

Sauce a la Polvrade, 

Take two fine Hares, clean neatly 
and cut the filets neatly from the 
rack. Lard the surface carefully with 
fine needles. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Make a marinade witti 
half a glass of White wine, one onion 
and one carrot, minced very fine. Let 
all steep together for two hours; then 
place the butter or lard in a baking 
dish, ■with an onion and carrot, sliced 
fine. Put the filets of Hare over this 
and set in the oven and let it cook 
for a half hour. Baste frequently 
with the Hare's own juices. Place 
the filets "on a hot dish, add a table- 
spoonful of broth to the* gravy ia 
which the Hares were cooked; let 
all come to a boil on the stove; strain 
the gravy and pour over the filets. 
Bring to the table hot and serve with 
a Sauce a, la Poivrade. 

SteTfed Squirrel. 

Salmi d'ficureuil. 

A Pair of Squirrels. 
2 Onions. 1 Square Inch of Ham. ' 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter, 

1 Clove of Garlic, Chopjed Very Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Fine. 

1 Glass of Claret. 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

Skin and clean the Squirrels; wash 
well and cut into pieces at the joints. 
Chop two onions very fine and put 
them in a stewpan with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Let them 
brown slightly; then add the Squir- 
rel. Let it brown slightly, and then 
add one tablespoonful of flour, and 
let this brown a little. Chop the- 
.square inch of ham very fine, mlnclng- 
It, and add. Then add the clove of 
garlic, and two sprigs each of thym& 



133 



and parsley and a bay leaf, minced 
fine. Let this brown nicely, and p<fur 
over one glass of good Claret. Let 
this cook for ten minutes, stirring it 
■constantly, so that it will not burn, 
and then add one cup of boiling wa- 
ter. Stir well, season again to taste 
and let it boil for thirty minutes 
and serve hot. This dish will be im- 
proved beyond estimation if a can 
of mushrooms is added immediately 
after adding the water. But it is 
very nice without the mushrooms. 
Serve very hot. 



jSquirrel, Hnnters' Style. 

iSoureuil a la Chasseur.. 
Procure two fine Squirrels, and pre-r 
pare in exactly the, same manner as 
in the recipe, "Rabbit, Hunters' 
Style." (See recipe.) 

Squirrel en Matelote. 

£;oureull en Matelote. 

Procure two fine Squirrels, and pre- 
pare in exactly the same manner as 
in the recipe for "Rabbit en Mate- 
lote." (See recipe.) 



CHAPTER XIX. 
BIRDS. 



Des Oiseaux. 



As already mentioned, Louisiana 
points with pride to the quality and 
variety of the Birds found in her 
forests. Fine game birds are al- 
ways heavy for their size; the flesh 
of the breast is plump and firm, and 
the skin clear. To be sure that the 
bird is fresh if purchased from 
dealers, pluck off a few feathers 
from the inside of the legs and 
around the vent; in a freshly-killed 
bird the flesh will be fat and fresh- 
colored; if the game has been hung 
a long time, the flesh will be dark 
and discolored. These are infallible 
guides in selecting game birds. In 
serving birds, remember that young 
<3reen Peas, or "Petits Pois Pran- 
^ais," as they are generally called, 
are a nice entrfie for all birds. The 
following are the recognized Creole 
rules and methods of preparing our 
•delightful "Fancy Game." 
Invariable Rale far Broiling Birds. 
Oiseaux Grillfies. 

Prepare the birds by hand picking. 
If of the very small variety, such as 
grassets, reed birds, robins, etc., do 
not pick out the entrails, for there 
VUl be little left of the bird but a 
charred mass. Rub the bird well 
with salt and pepper, and then with 
melted butter. Tie a strip of very 
flnelyrSlioed bacon around the body 
of the bird, joining with a skewer, 
and place on a broiler over a slow 
fire, and let it cook for ten, fifteen 
or twenty or even thirty minutes, 
according to the size of the bird. 
Turn frequently, so that it may cook 
well without burning. "When done,' 
take off the broiler. Have ready 
always buttered French toasts, and 
place the birds upon them, allowing 
a slice of toast for each bird. Trim 
away the rough edges of the toast. 
It is a matter of taste whether the 
strip of bacon be removed or not. 
But in the most exclusive homes of 



Creole New Orleans it is retained, 
being removed ac the table by the 
person to whom it is served, the 
hot bacon keeping the bird hot. 
Juicy and tender. Always pour over 
the bird a little of the juice that has 
run from it In broiling, and let it 
soak down into the toast. Pour over 
a little melted butter and chopped 
parsley, and lemon juice if you like. 
Garnish with sliced lemon and par- 
sley sprigs, and bring to the table 
hot. 

Invariable Rule for Boastins Birds. 

Oiseaux Rotis. 

Prepare the birds in exactly the 
same manner as for broiling, clean- 
ing out the entrails of the larger 
birds, and leaving the small ones 
untouched, with the exception of the 
ipababotte, the gizzards ^ of which 
must never be eaten, for the Paba- 
botte is a very rich bird. Rub with 
salt and pepper and melted butter. 
In the larger birds, if you can afford 
it put a truflae or two, for stuffing, 
and in all put a little lump tt butter 
and a little salt and pepper, a pinch 
of chopped thyme, parsley and bay 
leaf, and a small pinch of the four 
spices, but very, very small indeed. 
Bind with strips of bacon, and place 
in a baking pan with a tablespoonful 
of butter. Let them bake or roast 
thirty tainutes or less, according to 
size, and serve always on buttered 
French toast, over which you will 
pour, when you have placed the bird 
upon it, a bit of the gravy made 
when cooking. Prepare this gravy 
bv simply adding a tablespoonful of 
water, letting it cook for two min- 
utes; then strain; let it cook for two 
minutes more, and pour upon Jhe 
breast of the bird, so that it will s6ak 
down into the toast. Garnish nicely 
with sprigs of parsley and lemon, 
and serve hot. 



134 



Bear in mind that all large game 
should be roasted; the small may be 
roasted or broiled, according to 
taste, 

Pababotte. 

The Pababotte is one of our most 
rficherchfe and distinctive birds. The 
Pababotte is a summer bird, and is 
with us from the latter part of the 
month of June to September. The 
game laws are very strict, and it is 
not allowed to be killed out of sea- 
son. The first Pababottes in the 
market, like the first Pompano, are 
much sought after. It is a rich bird 
and is the Joy of the ancient Creole 
gourmets. "Pababotte &, la Creole!" 
— "Ah!" they will tell you, "you have 
a dish that is enough to make a dead 
man turn , alive!" Thus prepared, 
the dish is sometimes called "H la 
Frangais-Crgole," not because the 
bird has been ever cooked by the 
French in their own domains, for it 
is unknown in French forests, but 
because the Creoles, in cooking it to 
the best advantage, adopt the French 
dressing which will be explained in 
stuflSng the bird, according to the 
subjoined distinctive Creole recipe: 

Pababotte ft la Creole. 

Pababotte a, la Crfiole. 

6 Fababottea. 6 Trnffleh. 

6 Thin Slices of Bacon. 6 Slices of Toast. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

3 Tablespoontuls of Water. 

The Zest of a Lemon. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

OllTes and Sprigs of Farsle.v to Garnish. 

Clean the Pababotte as you would 
a chicken, and take out the entrails. 
Separate the gizzards, and be sure 
to throw them away, retaining all 
the rest of the entrails for stuffing. 
Chop the remaining entrails very fine, 
and season well with salt and pepper! 
Fry them in about a quarter of a 
spoon of butter. In the meantime 
take the Pababotte and rub well 
with salt and pepper, and put a small 
piece of butter, about the size of a 
peanut, with a little salt and pepper, 
in the Pababotte. jr'lace in the in- 
terior one truffle. Bind a strip of 
thin bacon around the body. Place 
a tablespoonful of butter in a baking 
dish, and set the Pababotte in it, 
and add about two tablespoonfuls of 
water. Set the dish in a Quick oven, 
and let the birds roast thirty min- 
utes, turning over once, so that they 
may be perefctly done. When the 
entrails are done, add. two inches of 
the zest of the lemon and a little 
juice. Take slices of toast, allowing 
one slice for each bird, and spread 
over each a coating of the entrails, 
or farcie. Place a bird on each 
slice of toast, after taking off the 
binding of bacon, or leaving it on, 
according to taste. Add one spoon 
of water to the gravy in which the 



Pababottes have been cooking, strain 
It, then warm for two minutes, and 
potir hot on top of the breast of the 
bird, allowing it to melt down into 
the French toasts. Garnish the 
dish nicely with sprigs of parsley 
and olives, and serve hot. 

Broiled Pababotte. 

Pababotte Grille, 

6 Pababottes. B Fine Strips of Bacon. 

6 Slices of Buttered French Toast. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley, 
Sliced Lemon and Parsley Sprigs to Gamlsh, 
Salt and Pepper to Taste, 
Clean the Pababotte well, removing 
the entrails, and be particularly care- 
ful to throw away the gizzard. Rub 
the birds with aalt and pepper and 
then with melted butter. Tie a strip 
of very finely-sliced bacon around 
the body of each bird, joining the 
bacon with a skewer, and place the 
birds on a broiler over a slow Are 
and let them cook fifteen, twenty or 
even thirty minute.s, according to the 
size of the birds. Turn frequently, 
so that they may broil without burn- 
ing. When done, take off the broiler; 
have ready the slices of buttered 
French toast, and place a bird upon 
each slice. Trim away the rough 
edges of the toast. Pour over the 
birds a little of the juice, that has 
run from them in broiling, and let this 
soak down into the toast. Pour over 
a little melted butter and chopped 
parsley, and add a little lemon juice, 
if desired. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and parsley sprigs and bring to 
the table hot. 

Roast Pababotte. 

Pababotte Roti. 

6 Pababottes. 6 Truffles (If desired), 
3 Sprigs of Chopped Thyme and Parsley. 
1 Bay Leaf, Minced. 
6 Thin Strips of Bacon. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter, 
1 Tablespoonful of Water. 
6 Slices of French Toast. 
. Ealt and Pepper to Taste. 
Sprigs of Parsley and Thin Slices of Lemon to 
Garnish, 
Prepare the Pababottes as . indi- 
cated in above recipe. Rub with salt 
and pepper and melted butter; f)ut a 
truffle or two into each Pababotte.if 
you can afford it, and put in each 
bird a little lump of butter about the 
size of a peanut, a pinch of salt and 
pepper, and a pincn of chopped thyme 
and parsley and bay leaf. Bind the 
birds with the strips of bacon and 
place in a baking pan with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Let -them bake 
or roast for thirty minutes or less, 
according to size. When done, place 
each bird on a slice of buttered 
French toast, and, when you have 
placed the bird thus, pour over a bit 



1^5 



of the gravy which you will have 
made by adding to the birds while 
cooking, and just four mlnutea be- 
fore serving, add a tablespoonful of 
water, letting it cook for two min- 
utes; then strain this gravy, and let 
it cook two minutes more. Pour a 
little over the breast of each bird, 
so that it will soak down into the 
toast. Garnish nicely with sprigs of 
parsley and sliced lemon and servie 
hot. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Perdreaux. 

The Partridge may be roasted or 
broiled; being a large bird, if 
roasted it may be stuffed with truf- 
fles or any stuffiKs, such as oysters 
or egg, and served on toast, as indi- 
cated in the recipes for broiling and 
roasting birds. 

The term "Perdreaux" is applied 
by the French to young Partridges, 
and "Perdrix" to the older birds. In 
the young birds the tips of the long 
wing feathers are pointed; in the old 
birds the tips of the wing feathers 
are round. 

Roast Fartrldgre. 

Perdreaux Rotis, ou Perdreaux Plqu6s 
Sur Canapes. 

6 Fine Toung Fartrldgea. 

6 Thin Slices of Bacon. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Toasteu uread. 

Parsley or Watercress to Garnish. 
Clean, singe and draw and wipe 
the birds neatly; rub each bird well 
with salt and pepper, and then with 
melted butter. If it can be afforded, 
stuff the bird with truffles, placing 
one or two in each bird, and place 
within the bird a pinch of salt and 
pepper, a lump of butter about the 
size of a peanut,and a pinch of 
chopped thyme, parsley and bay leaf, 
all minced very fine. Bind the birds 
with thin strips of bacon, ai^d fasten 
each strip with a skewer. Put the 
Partridges in a baking pan in a 
brisk oven, and add two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and one of water. 
Let them bake from twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, according to size, 
basting occasionally with their own 
juice. When done, have ready the 
buttered French toast; place the 
birds upon the toast and pour over a 
bit of the gravy made when cooking. 
Prepare this gravy by adding two 
tablespoonfuls of water to the Par- 
tridge juice after removing the birds; 
let it cook for two minutes, and then 
Btlrain and let it cook two minutes ' 
more. Pour upon the breast of the 
birds, so that it will soak into the 
tOElst. Ctarnish the dish nicely with 



sprigs of parsley or watercress and 
, serve hot. 

- Roast Partridge, Bread Sance. 

Perdreaux Rotis, Sauce au Pain. 

8 Fine Young Partridges. 

Slice of Toast Bread. 

IH Ounces of Fresh Bread Crumbs, 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

I % Cup of Cold 'JVater. . 

; %. Clip of Cream or Milk. . 

% Teaspoontul of Salt. 6 White Peppers. 

Prepare the Partridges and roast- 

according to recipe for "Roast Par- 

( tridge." (See lucipe.) Make .a 

bread sauce as follows: Crumble one 

and a. half ounces of fresh bread 

crumbs and place In a saucepan with 

a half cup of cold water; add, when 

the water heats, a tablespoonful of 

butter, six whole white .peppers and' 

a half teaspoonful of salt. Cook for 

five minutes; then add a half cup of 

rich milk or cream. Let the whole . 

cook five minutes more. Remove the 

white peppers. Place the Partridges ■ 

on the toasted brea^, and garnish 

the dish nicely with parsley sprigs . 

or watercress. Send to the table hot , 

with the sauce in a separate dish. 

Pour the sauce over the Partridges 

'When serving. 

Broiled Fartrldses 

Perdreaux Grilles. 

3' Fine Young Partridges. 

6 Slices of French Toast. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The Juice of a Lemon. 

Parsley Sprigs and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Prepare the birds as in the above 
recipe. Cut them in two by splitting 
down the back, as in broifing a 
chicken. Rub with salt and pepper 
and melted butter. Place on a broil- 
er and. let them broil from fifteen to 
twenty minutes, allowing from seven 
to ten minutes, according to the size 
bf the bird, to either side during the 
: broiling process. Turn frequently to 
avoid burning. Have ready the but- 
tered French toast; place the- birds 
upon it and pour over a little of the 
juice that ran from the bird while 
broiling. Let it soak down in the 
bread; pour over melted butter and 
chopped parsley, and add a little lem- 
on juice, if desired. Garnish the dish 
nicely with sprigs of parsley or wa- 
tercress and send to the table hot. , 

Partridge With Sour Orange Sauce. 

Perdreaux aux Bigarades. 

3 Fine Partridges. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

The Juice of a Sour Orange. 

Toasted Croutons. 

Watercress or Parsley to Garnish. 

Bro'H the Partridges according to 

recipe for "Broiled Partridge." (See 

recipe.) Prepare a "Drawn Butter 



136 



Sauce" (see recipe), and add the juice 
and zest of a sour orange. Pour over 
the birds and let it soali down into 
the toast. Serve hot, with garnishes 
of parsley or watercress. 

Partridges, Hunters' Style. 

Perdrix SautSes a, la Chasseur. 

3 Fine Partridges. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Finely Chopped Onion. 12 Whole Mushrooms. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
V4 Glass of Sherry or Madeira Wine. 

1 Cup of Water or Consomme. 
Croutons. 

The older birds are used for stew- 
ing- purposes. Clean the Partridges; 
singe, draw and wipe well. Cut up 
the birds as you would a young 
chicken. Rub well with salt and pep- 
per, and place in a stewpan with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter. After let- 
ting them brown well on either side, 
about three minuses, add the finely- 
chopped onion and carrot, and the 
minced herbs. Let these brown for 
two minutes, and add the flour and 
let all brown nicely. Then add a 
cup of water or consommfi and the 
wine and the chopped mushrooms. 
Cover closely and cook for fifteen 
minutes and then serve, using 
toasted Crofltons as garnish. 

Fartrldge, Creole Style. 

Perdrix SautSes a la Creole. 

' 3 Fine Partridges. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

3 Large Tomatoes. 

2 Sprigs Each of Tbyme apd Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
i % Glass of Shen/ or Madeira Wine. 
' 1 Cup of Water or Consomme. 

' Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Croutons to Garnish. 

Clean the Partridges; singe, draw 
and wipe well. Cut up the birds as 
for Fricasseed Chicken. Rub well 
with salt and pepper and place in a 
stewpan, and let them brown well 
on either side. Then add the finely- 
chopped onion and the herbs, minced 
very fine. Let these brown, and add 
the tablespoonful of flour. Let brown 
nicely, and add the chopped tomatoes 
and their Juice; cover and let simmer 
about five minutes, and then add the 
wine and a cup of water or con- 
sommS. Cover closely and let all 
cook for fifteen minutes and serve 
hot, using toasted CroHtons for a 
garnish. 



Partridge A la Flnanci£re. 

Perdreaux a la Financifire. 

3 Fine Young Partridges. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 1 Tablespoonful of Sail. 

1 Tablespoonful of Pepper. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

yii Pint of Consomme or Water. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 3 Truffles. 

2 Dozen Stoned Olives. 

3 Blanched Chicken Livers. 

1 Dozen Mushrooms. 

1 Dozen Quenelles of Veal or Chicken. 

1 Pint of Madeira or Sherry Wine. 

Clean the partridges according to 
the recipe given. Singe, draw, wipe 
well and then truss neatly. Rub well 
with salt and pepper. Take a piece 
of fat salt pork and cut into strips 
and lard the partridges with these 
thin strips, using a larding needle. 
Then put two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter into a shallow saucepan, let the 
butter melt, add tae onion and carrot 
sliced fine and the minced parsley 
and bay leaf; lay the partridges 
over these, cover the saucepan and 
let the partridges brown till they 
reach a nice golden color. Then add 
a half pint of chicken or veal con- 
sommg, or if these are not convenient 
add a half pint of water. Cover the 
saucepan and let them simmer down 
for twenty minutes, turning occasion- 
ally so that they may be thoroughly 
cooked. Then remove the birds, plac- 
ing them on a hot dish in the oven. 
Make a Sauce a. la Financifire by add- 
ing to the gravy in which the par- 
tridges were cooked; one tablespoon- 
ful of flour; let it brown and add one 
pint of rich chicken broth, one ta- 
blespoonful of butter, three sliced 
truffles, two dozen stoned olives, 
three blanched' chicken livers cut 
in pieces, one dozen mushrooms, one 
aozen small balls or quenelles (see 
■recipe) of minced veal or chicken 
(may be omitted), and a pint of Sher- 
ry or Madeira w?ne. Season well 
with salt and pepper, and add a dash 
of Cayenne. Let all cook for twenty 
minutes, using a wooden spoon to 
stir. The sauce should be of the 
'consistency of rich cream. After 
twenty minutes place the partridges 
back in the sauce and let them wiarm 
for about three or four minutes. 
Place, in the dish, pour the sauce 
over them and serve hot with gar- 
nish of toasted CroOtons. 

Partridge and Cabbage. 

Perdrix aux Choux. 

3 Fine Partridges. 

A Pine Tender Head of Cabbage. 

1!! Chaurlce (Sausage). >^ of a Pound ef 

Salt Pork. 

1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 4 Cloves. 

% Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Herb Bouquet. 



137 



1 Pint of Veal or Chicken Broth (White). 

1 Pint of Beef Broth or Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Clean the partridges, selecting 

large and older partridges in prefer- 
ence to the young. Clean, singe, 
draw and wipe well. Then truss them 
neatly, rub with salt and pepper and 
butter and place in a roasting pan. 
In the meantime take a fine, tpnder 
head of cabbage, clean thoroughly 
and cut into foui parts. Wash the 
■cabbage well in cold water and put 
into boiling salted water for five 
minutes. Then take the cabbage out 
of the water and drain well; make a 
hollow in the center of each piece 
of cabbage; place within the par- 
tridges, cover with the other pieces 
and tie together. Put in a saucepan 
the quarter of a pound of salt pork 
which has been yyell scalded and 
washed of all salt and cut into six 
slices. Add one carrot cut, into four 
pieces, one whole onion into which 
you will have. £.LUck four cloves, 
the herb bouquet, the sausage and 
one pint each of white veal broth or 
chicken broth, and one pint of water 
or beef broth. Season with a 
small pinch of salt, and a good 
pinch of pepper, and place the 
cabbage in this preparation. , Put 
the partridges in the oven and 
let them roast for ten minutes. Then 
remove and taku the cabbage from 
the mixture, make a hollow in the 
center of the cabbage, place within 
the partridges and cover with the 
remaining portion of cabbage; tie 
each half separately together; then 
return to the saucepan, placing a 
piece of buttered paper over to keep 
all air from escaping. Put the lid 
on the saucepan, set in the oven and 
let the partridges cook thus for an 
hour. Remove the lid and paper, 
skim off all that may adhere to the 
surface^ drain the cabbage and slice; 
dress neatly on a hot dish. Untruss 
the partridges and lay them on the 
cabbage, placing on each dressed sec- 
tion a piece of sliced boiled pork, 
a sausage cut in half; slice the car- 
rots nicely in round pieces, and use 
these as a decoration, placing them 
artistically around the dish. • Strain 
the sauce in which the partridges 
were cooked and let it reduce slight- 
ly. Serve with the cabbage and par- 
tridge, bringing it to the table in 
a separate bowl and pouring over the 
cabbage when serving. 

Chartreuse of PartrldgC' 

Chartreuse de Perdrix. 

3 Fine Partridges. 

A Fine Tender Head ot Cabhage. 

12 Chanrice (Sausage). % Pound of Salt Pork. 

3 Small Onions. 

2 Turnips. 2 Carrots. 4 Cloves. 
IH Tablespoon fiils of Butter. 

% Cup of Green Peas. 



1 Herb Bouquet. 

1 Pint of Veal or Chicken Broth. 

1 Pint of Consomme. 

% Pint of Demi Glace, or Madeira Sauce. 

Prepare the partridges and ' cab- 
bage exactly as foT the recipe „Par- 
tridges and Cabbage." 

Butter a three-pint mold lightly; 
cut the turnips, carrots and onion in- 
to small even pieces, using a vege- 
table tube; put a layer of the cut 
vegetables in the bottom of the mold; 
lay on top a layer of the cooked cab- 
bage, cut the pariridges into pieces 
and place a layer of them on the 
cabbage, filling in the hollow spaces 
with cabbage chopped fine and the 
chopped vegetables; fill in further 
with the sliced sausage and lay on 
top six slices of the salt pork; then 
place another layer of the partridges, 
fill in the hollow places with the 
sliced turnips and carrots and onions 
and the sausage; place on top anoth- 
er layer of cabbage, covering the 
top well with the cabbage and press- 
ing down very carefully; decorate 
the mold prettily around , the edges 
with the sliced carrots and turnips 
and place in a tin baking pan and 
set in a moderate oven for fifteen 
minutes. Have at hand a hot dish 
turn the mold upside down and care- 
fully draw it off the preparation. 
Send to the table hot and serve with 
Demi Glace, or Madeira Sauce. (See 
recipe.) 

Breasts of Partridge, Truffle Sauce. 

Supreme de Perdreaux, Sauce PSri- 
gueux. 

3 Fine Toung Partridges. 3 TrufSes. 
12 Mushrooms. 
1^ Glass of Madeira Wine. 

2 Ounces of Chicken Forcemeat. 
A Pint of Sauce a la Hollandaise. 

2 Gills of White Wine. 

Clean, singe, draw and wipe the 
partridges carefully. Then remove 
the skin from the breasts. By a 
delicate manipulation with a very 
sharp small knife make an incision 
on the top of each breastbone from 
end to end and cut off the entire 
breast, including the wing bone, from 
the carcass. Carefully remove the 
small filet which lies under each 
breast and place on a dish aside for 
further use. Then cut an incision 
two inches square and 1 inch in 
depth into each breast, on the inner 
side. Rub well with salt and pepper, 
and stuff the incision with two ta- 
blespoonfuls of chicken forcemeat, to 
which has been added six finely- 
chopped mushrooms and two thinly- 
sliced truffles. Butter the inside of 
a tin saucepan and lay the six 
breasts very carefully within. Then 
take each of the bix small filets that 
have been laid aside; rub them well 
with salt and pepper and make 
a small incision on the top 



138 



of each and place within a thin slice 
of truffle and brush lightly with 
melted butter. Lay these fllets light- 
ly on top of each of the breasts, and 
again brush lightly with melted but- 
ter. Tliese filets and breasts thus 
arranged constitute supremes. Pour 
into the pSn a half glass of Madeira 
wine and two tablespoonfuls of the 
chicken liquor, cover the pan tightly 
and place in a hot oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

Take one pint of Hollandaise Sauce, 
add one finely-minced truffle and a 
half dozen minced mushrooms and 
two gills of White Wine. Place the 
sauce in a saucepan of hot boiling 
water and let the sauce heat ivell 
without boiling. jr-our this sauce 
into a hot dish and then take the pan 
with the partridges out of the oven, 
remove tlie breasts and filets, or 
"Supremes," place them on the dish 
with the sauce, garnish nicely with 
Croiltons and send to the table hot. 

QUAIL. 

Cailles. 

The quail is a most delicious and 
tempting bird. It delights the most 
fastidious, and that famous prepara- 
tion, *'Quail on Toast," or "Cailles 
sur CanapSs," is a dish that no great 
dining is considered complete with- 
out, when quail a^e in season. 

We have two kinds of quail, the 
blue and the yellow spotted, or pi- 
v61e. Both are excellent. If pur- 
chased in the market or city stores, 
see that the skin is clear and the 
breasts full and render. The quail 
is either broiled or roasted, follow- 
ing exactly the same directions given 
in the recipes for broiling and roast-' 
ing. In broiling, allow from twelve 
to fifteen minutes. In roasting, from 
twenty to twenty-five. Always cook 
slowly on a slow fire. / 

Ronsted dnall. 

Cailles Roties. 

C Quails. 

1 Talilespoontul of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. 

The Juice of ] Lemon. 6 Slices of Toast. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Sliced Lemon and Parsley Sprigs, or Water- 
cress to Garnish. 
Select six fine, fat, tender quail. 
Pick, singe, clean and wipe them 
well. Butter the inside of each quail 
nicely and sprir.Jcle lightly within 
with salt and pepper. Rub lightly 
on the outside with butter, theh 
truss the bird and bind the body 
round with a thin strip of bacon. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter in a 
rdasting pan and set the birds in 
the pan and cook in the oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes, according 
to size. Have ready the buttered 
toast. Place on a hot dish, lay a 
bird on each slice of toast. Add a 



little butter to the gravy in which 
the quails have been roasted, a ta- 
blespoonful of water and the juice 
of one lemon. Let , this cook for 
three or four minutes, strain and set 
on the stove for two minutes longer 
and pour over the breast of the birds 
so that it will soak into the bread. 
Garnish the dish nicely with -parsley 
and sliced lemon or sliced lemon 
and watercress, and send to the table 
hot. When served with a garnish of 
watercress the dish is called "Cailles 
aux Cressons." 

Quail Roasted In Grape Lenve», 

Cailles de Laurier aux Peuilles de 
Vifeues. 

6 Pine Quails. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. The Juice of 1 

Lemon. 

6 Slices of Buttered Toast. 12 Gi-ape Leaves. 

Green Grape Jelly. 

Follow the directions given in the 
above recipe for roasting quails, only 
do not wrap the quails in strips of 
bacon. Instead rub the bodies well 
■with butter and then envelop the 
birds in fresh grape leaves; set in a 
baking pan and proceed to roast ac- 
cording to the directions given above. 
Garnish a dish nicely with fresh 
young grape leaves, place the quails 
on slices of toast and lay upon the 
leaves and send the dish to the table 
hot. Serve the quails with Green 
Grape Jelly. This is, of course, a 
rare dish, and can only be served 
at the season when the grape vine 
is in leaf. It Is much affected at 
such times by epicures, but it is a 
dish within the reach of any who 
may have a grape vine near. The 
grape leaves impart a very peculiar 
and grateful flavor to the quail 

Rouated Mtuail. 

Cailles de Laurier Roties. 

6 Fine Tender Quails. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. 6 Truffles. 

8 Thin Strips of Bacon. The Juice of 1 

Lemon. 
Parsley Sprigs and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 
To make this delicious dish, clean 
the quail and butter inside and throw 
in a little salt ana pepper. Stuff with 
truffles, and bind the body, after 
rubbing, with a strip of bacon. Set 
in the oven in a baking pan in which 
you have placed a, tablespoonful of 
butter, and let it roast twenty or 
thirty minutes, according to size. 
Have ready buttered toast. Put the 
birds on the toast. Add a little but- 
ter to the gravy in which they have 
been roasted, and a tablespoonful of 
water, and the iuice of a lemon. Let 
this cook for three or four minutes, 
strain, set on tne stove for two 
minutes longer, and pour over the 



139 



breast of the bird, so that it will 
soak into the bread, and serve with 
a nice garnish of parsley and sliced 
lemon, and with green peas as an 
entree. 

Broiled Quail on Toast. 

Cailles Grillfees' sur Canapfes. 

6 I'ine Fat Quails. 6 Strips of Bacon. 
2 Isblespooufuls of Butter. G Slices of But- 
tered Toast. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
■Parsley Sprigs to Garnish. 

Bub the bird -well with salt and 
pepper, and then with melted but- 
ter. Tie a strip of very finely-sliced 
bacon around the body of the bird, 
joining with a BKewer, and place 
on a broiler over a slow fire,, and let 
it cook for ten, fifteen or twenty, or 
even thirty minutes, according to the 
size of the bird. Turn frequently, 
so that it may cook well without 
burning. When done take off the 
broiler. Have ready always but- 
tered French toasts, and place the 
birds upon them, allowing a slice of 
toast for each bird. Trim away the 
rough edges of the toast. It is a 
matter of taste whether the strip 
of bacon be removed or not. But at 
the most elegant dinings in Creole 
New Orleans it is retained, being 
removed at the table by the person 
to whom it is served, the hot bacon 
keeping the bjrd hot, juicy and ten- 
der. Always pour over the bird a lit- 
tle of the juice that has run from it 
in broiling, and let it soak down 
into the toast. Pour over a little 
melted butter anu chopped parsley, 
and lemon juice, if you like. Garnish 
with sliced lemon and parsley sprigs, 
and bring to the table hot. 

aualls Broiled With Bacon. 

Cailles GrillSes et BardSes. 

6 Fine Fat Quails. 
1 Tablcspoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. % Tablespoonful of 

Pepper. 
6 Slices of Bacon. 6 Slices of Toast. 

2 Tablespoontuls of Sauce a la ilaltre d'Uotel. 
Watercress and Sliced Lemon to Garulsb. 

Clean the quails, singe and wipe 
well. Split them through the back 
without separating the breast and 
break the leg bones. Rub well with 
salt and pepper and a little melted 
butter, mixed together, and put the 
Quails on a broiler and let them broil 
on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes, 
allowing seven and a half minutes 
to either side, and turning frequently , 
to prevent burning. Have ready a 
hot dish with six slices of buttered 
toast, lay the quail on top and pour 
over a little melted butter (Sauce t, 
la Maitre d'Hotel), and then deco- 
rate the dish with parsley sprigs, on 
which lay six nicely broiled slices of 
breakfast bacon. 



Smothered Q.uall. 

Cailles BraiSs£es. 

a Fine Fat Quails. % Carrot. 

H of an Onion. % Cupful of Water. 

2 Tablespoontuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper tp Taste. 

6 Thin Strips of Bacon. 

Select fine fat quails, clean, singe 
and wipe well. Truss neatly and 
cover with a thin layer of bacon. 
Then place two tablespoonfuls of 
butter in a saucepan; place the quails 
in the pan; add half of an onion and 
carrot minced very fine, cover and 
let the quails brown to a nice golden 
color. Then moisten with a half cup 
of water and set tne pan in the oven. 
Cover with buttered paper and let 
the quails cook for twenty minutes. 
Serve on a hot dish nicely garnished 
with parsley sprigs or lettuce leaves. 

Braised Quails, Celery Sauce. 
Cailles Braissfees t la Sauce CSleri. 

Proceed to clean and cook the 
quails as in the recipe given above 
and serve with a pint of hot Celery 
Sauce (see recipe) poured over. 

Quails Braised H la Financiere. 
Cailles B,raiss6es a. la Financigre. 

Braise the quails as in the recipe 
for "Braised Quails," and serve with 
a pint of hot Sauce a. la Financlfiro 
poured over. 

WOODCOCK. 

BScasse. 

The "Bficasse" is a rare bird. It is 
in season from December till April. 
In purchasing see that the skin is 
clear, the breasts firm and plump 
and the wings tender to the touch. 

Pluck and clean, but never draw 
these birds. The olden epicurean 
ideas of Creole cookery forbid this. 
If you were to serve the Bfioasse to 
an old Creole bon vivant without the 
entrails he' woula consider it quite 
shocking, and his indignation would 
vent itself Immediately in unmistak- 
able terms. The "B6casse" is always 
broiled or roasted and .served on but- 
tered French toast. If roasted, al- 
ways put, if you can, one truffle in 
the body as a stuffing, and when 
serving a little melted butter on 
top of the breast. 

Roast Woodcock on Toast. 

B§casses Roties sur Canap6s. 
6 Fine Woodcock. , 
Slices of Buttered Toast. 

6 Strips of Bacon. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 1 Bay 

Lent. 
Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley or Wa- 
tercress to Garnisb. 

Prepare the birds as in the "In- 
variable Rule for Roasting Birds." 
(See recipe.) 

Rub with salt and pepper and melt- 
ed butter. If you can afford it, put 



140 



a truffle in each bird for stuffing, 
and in all put a little lump of but- 
ter and a little salt and pepper, a 
pincb of chopped thyme, parsley and 
bay leaf, and a amaU pinch of the 
four spices, but very, very small, 
indeed. Truss neatly. Bind with 
strips of bacon, and place in a baking 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter. 
Let them bake or roast thirty min- 
utes or less, accoralng to size; re- 
move from the oven and place on 
buttered French toast on a hot dish, 
cover and set over a pot of boiling 
water to keep warm. Prepare 
^ravy by simply adding a tables- 
poonful of water to the gravy made 
when cooking the birds, let it cook 
for two minutes; then strain; let it 
cook for two minutes more, and pour 
upon the breast of the bird so that it 
will soak down into the toast. Garnish 
nicely with sprigs of parsley and 
lemon, and serve hot. 

Broiled Woodcock on Tonst. 

BScasses GrillSs sur Canapgs. 

6 Fine Fat Woodcock. 6 Slices of Buttered 

French Toast. 

6 Fine Strips of Breakfast Bacon. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. Parsley Sprigs. 

and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Prepare the birds by hand picking. 
Singe and wipe well. Rub the bird 
well with salt and pepper, and then 
with merted buttsr. Tie a strip of 
very finely-sliced bacon around the 
body of the bird, joining with a 
skicwer, and place on a broiler over a 
slow lire, and let it cook for ten, 
fifteen or twenty, or even thirty min- 
utes, according to the size of the 
bird. Turn frequently so that it may 
cook Tvell without burning. When 
done take oft the uroiler. Have ready 
always buttered ir-rench toasts, and 
place the birds upon them, allowing 
a slice of toast iror each bird. Trim 
away the rough edges of the toast. 
Always pour over the bird a little 
of the juice that has run from it in 
broiling, and let it soak down into 
the toast. Pour over a little melted 
butter and chopped parsley, and lem- 
on juice, if you like. Garnish with 
sliced lemon and parsley sprigs, and 
bring to the table hot. In cooking, 
and in serving, follow the "Invar- 
iable Rule for Broiling Birds." (See 
recipe. 

SNjlfB. 

BScassine. 

The snipe is one of our finest birds, 
and is much sought after by epicures. 
But the glory of our Louisiana for- 
ests is that the rich gifts of nature 
may be had by the poor as well as 
the millionaire. 

The Bfioassine is a welcome dish 
at the most exclusive tables. It is a 
winter bird, and is with us from 
December till April, as also the "B&- 



casse," or "Woodcock." If you tell 
an old. Creole that you are going to 
treat him to "BScassines" or "Bg- 
casses," he will smack his lips and 
say: "Ah! you are a connoisseur." 
"Bfcassines" are either roasted or 
broiled; follow implicitly the direc- 
tions given in the rules for broiling 
and roasting birds. Serve in the same 
Inanner, with a garnish of cresses or 
parsley, and always on buttered 
French toasts. In selecting snipe, 
'see that the flesh is clear and firm 
and the breastu full and tender. 

Roast Snipe on Toast. 

B^cassines Roties sur Canapfis. 

6 Fine Snipe. 6 Slices of Buttered French 
Toast. 
6 Strips of Bacon. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 1 Bay' 

Leaf. 
Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley or Wa- 
tercress to Garnish. 

Prepare the birds as in the "In- 
variable Rule Iol Koasting Birds." 
Rub with salt and pepper and melt- 
ed butter. If you can afford it, put a 
truffle into each b>ra for stuffing, and 
in all put a little lump of butter 
and a little salt and pepper, a pinch 
of chopped thyme, parsley and bay 
leaf, and a small pinch of the four 
spices, but very, very small, indeed. 
Bind with strips' of bacon, and place 
in a baking pan with a tablespoonful 
of butter. Let them roast thirty min- 
utes or less, according to size, then 
remove and place always on but- 
tered French toast on a hot dish, 
and cover and set over a pot of boil- 
ing water to keep warm and juicy. 
Meanwhile prepare a gravy by sim- 
ply adding a tablespoonful of wa- 
ter to the gravy made in cooking ' 
the birds; let it cook for two min- 
utes; then strain; let it cook for 
.two minutes moru and pour a little 
upon the breast or each bird so that 
it will soak down into the toast. 
Garnish nicely with sprigs of par- 
sley or watercress and slices of lem- 
on, and serve hot. 

Broiled Snipe on Toast. 

BScassines Grillfies sur Canapfis. 

6 Fine Fat Snipe. 

C Slices of Buttered French Toast. 

6 Strips of Bacon. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. Parsley Sprigs 

and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Prepare the bird by hand picking, 
singing and trussing neatly, follow- 
ing the "Invariable Rule for Broil- 
ing Birds." (See recipe.) 

Rub the bird well with salt and 
pepper, and then with melted but- 
ter. Tie a strip of very finely-sliced 
bacon around the body of the biriii 
Joining with a skewer, and place on 
la broiler over a slow fire, and let 
it cook for ten, fifteen or twenty, 



141 



or even thirty minutes, according to 
the size of the bird. Turn frequent- 
ly, so that it may coolt well without 
burning-. When Cone take off the 
broiler. Have ready always buttered 
French toasts, and place the birds 
upon them allowing a slice of toast 
for each bird. Trim away the rough 
edges of the toast. It is a matter of 
taste whether the strip of bacon be 
removed or not. Always pour over 
the bird a little of the juice that 
has run from it in broiling, and let 
it soak down into the toast. Pour 
over a little melted butter and 
chopped parsley, and lemon juice if 
you like. Garnish with sliced lemon 
and parsley sprigs, and bring to the 
table hot. 

Grassets, Reed Birds, Robins, Larks, 
Broiled or Roasted, 

Grassets, Ortolans, Grives, Alouettes, 
Grillfies ou Rotis. 

6 or 8 Birda. 6 or 8 Slices of Toast. 

2 Tablespoontuls of Butter. 

6 or 8 Strips of Bacon. Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 
Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley or Wa- 
ter cress to Garnish. 

Grassets, Reed clrds, Robins and 
Larks are delight? jl small game that 
come in the summer. They are with 
us from July, through October. The 
Reed Birds, or Ortolans, are the ter- 
ror of the rice planters of Louisiana. 
They peck at the r:oe and spoil the 
growth, and are, consequently, shot 
In this season, when the rice is ma- 
turing, in order to rid the rice fields 
of their presence. ■ They are delicate 
eating, as are also the Louisiana 
Robins, Larke, and the Grassets, 
which latter are fat, plumpy birds 
of the Robin order. The name Gras- 
set is given to indicate fatness and 
plumpness. These birds are always 
broiled or roasted, following the in- 
variable rules laid down above. They 
should be broiled over a clear fire, 
and do not require much more than 
five minutes to broil; ten minutes 
to roast in a quick oven. Serve 
whether broiled or roasted, on but- 
tered French toast, and garnish with 
cresses of parslej sprigs. All these 
little birds should be broiled "en bro- 
chette," that is, a skewer should be 
run through the body. Salt and pep- 
per after, and pour melted butter 
and chopped parsley over them. If 
roasted, they may be served with a 
brown gravy. 

POUL,ES D'EAU. 
Poules d'Eau. 

2 Pair of Ponies d'Eau. 
6 Turnips. 1 TaBIespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoontul of Flour. 

2 Onions, Chopped Fine. 

1 Square Inch of Ham, Minced Fine. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and -Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 



The Poule d'Eau is a species of 
water duck resembling both a chick- 
en and a duck. The Creoles gave it 
the name of "Poule 'd'Eaux," or "Wa- 
ter Chicken." As it lives entirely in 
the water and marshes, never coming 
on dry land, it is classed by the Cre- 
oles among the fish and served as a 
Friday or fast-day dish. It makes 
a very delightful entrfie, either 
stewed plain or with turnips. It is 
never cooked in any other way. As 
it feeds much on fish, it often has 
the flavor of fish. In the hands of an 
inexperienced cook it is sometimes 
unpalatable on that account. Be- 
fore cooking parboil a few minutes 
if there is the slightest odor of fish; 
add a small peeled carrot or onion 
to tha wat^r, and this will absorb 
the flavor of fish. 

Steered Ponies d'Enu. 

Poules d'Eau a, la Creole. 

1 Pair of Poules d'Eau. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Glass of Claret. 1 Cup of Water.' 

1 Can of 'Mushrooms, 

Clean and pick the Poules d'Eau 
nicely. Cut into Joints or stew 
whole, as desired. The Creoles gen- 
erally cut them into joints. Rub well 
with salt and pepper. Chop two on- 
ions very fine. Put them into the 
ste;wpan with a tablespoonful of 
malted butter, aad let them brown 
slightly. Then add the well-seasoned 
ducks. Let these brown well, and 
add the one square inch of finely 
minced ham. (Omit the ham on fast 
days.) Add the clove of garlic and 
two sprigs each of thyme, parsley 
and one bay leaf, minced very fine. 
Let this brown with the Poules d'Eau, 
stirring frequently, and then pour 
over one good glass of claret. Let 
this simmer for ten minutes, stirring 
constantly so that it will not burn, 
and add one cup of boiling water. 
Season well to taste, and let them 
simmer well for about an hour. 
Serve hot with Crofltons for a gar- 
nish. 

Stewed Poules d'Eau With Turnips. 

Salmi de Poules d'Eau aux Navets. 

1 Pair of Poules d'Eau. 

6 Turnips. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Onions Chopped Fine. 

1 Square Inch of Ham, Minced Very i;in6. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

This is the most delightful way of 
cooking Poules d'Eau. The turnip 
blends well with the flavor, and a 
nicer way of serving this vegetable 
in combination does not exist. 
Clean the Poules d'Eau and cut 
into pieces at the joints. Put 



142 



a tablespoonful ot butter into 
the pot, and as it melts add the 
onions, chopped fine. Let this brown 
and then add the pieces of Poules 
d'Eau. Let them brown, and add the 
minced nam. (Omit the ham on fast 
days.) Immediately after add the 
turnips, sliced or cut in quarters, and 
a tablespoonful or sifted flour. Stir 
well, let it brown slightly, and add 
the minced thyme, parsley and bay 
leaf, and one clove of garlic, minced 
very fine. Stir well again, and let 
it smother for about fifteen minutes, 
stirring frequently, so that it will 
not burn. ' Then add water almost 
uffflcient to cover the Poules d'Eau, 
and stir well. Cover tight and let 
the mixture smother for a half hour 
longer. You will have one of 
the nicest dishes that ever graced a 
table. 

Game Pie. 

Pat§ de Gibier. 

1 Dozen Small Birds. 1 Dozen Eggs. 

A Rieli Pie Crust. 1 Dozen Haid-Boiled Eggs. 

2 Cups of Egg Dressing. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take one dozen small birds. Snipe, 
Quail, Woodcock, etc., and clean well, 
inside and out. Stuff each one with 
a dressing the same as for turkey, 
using either egg or oysters as de- 
sired. Loosen the joints with a knife 
but do not separate them. Put them 
in a stewpan, with water enough to 
cover them ,and let them cook till 
nearly tender. Then season with salt 
and pepper again and t-wd table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Thicken the 
gravy with one tablespoonful of flour, 
let cook for ten minutes more and 
then remove and set to cool. Butter 
a pudding dish and line the sides 
with a rich pie crust (see recipe). 
Have ready the hard-boiled eggs, cut 
in slices. Put in a layer of the eggs 
and a layer of the birds until the 
dish is full. Pour over the gravy 
and then cover the pie with a crust 
and bake to a light brown. 

The pie may also be made very 
nicely by stewing the birds as one 
would a chicken (see recipe), and 
then line a pie pan with a rich pie 
crust; bake lightly, fill in with the 
stewed birds, pour over the gravy, 
place a cover of the pie crust on 
top, set in the oven and bake to a 
light brown. 

Cliaud-Froid ot Game. 

Chaud-Proid de Gibier. 

The Preasts of 3 Ducks, or 1 Dozen Breasts 
of Small Game. 



1 Cup ot Chicken Forcemeat. 

2 TablespoOBfuls of Butter. 
1 Pint of Aspic Jelly. 

1 Pint of Poulette Sauce. 
3 Truffles. Watercress to Garnish. 

This is a, most recherche dish, sel- 
dom made in these days on account 
of the cost, but in old Creole days 
it was a standing dish at every 
great feast. It may be made with 
Canvasback or French or Teal Duoli, 
or with Woodcock, Snipe and other 
small game. The dish demands such 
beautiful decoration that it requires 
an artist to make a real Creole Chaud- 
Froid. 

Clean the ducks or game or spring 
chicken, if the latter is used; wash 
and truss neatly. Then wrap in 
buttered paper and smother accord- 
ing to recipe for Smothered Chicken 
(see recipe.) 'When done take out of 
the paper and separate the breasts 
of the game of chicken from the 
legs. Trim them neatly and stuff the 
portion between the breasts proper 
and the filets wrth a chicken force- 
meat. (See recipe.) Mix together 
equal parts of Aspic Jelly and Pou- 
lette Sauce. (See recipes.) Stir till 
thick and surround with crushed ice. 
Then dip the breasts of the game 
or chicken into this mixture. Take 
a fine baking sheet or dish and ar- 
range the breasid in fanciful or pyr- 
amidal figures on this dish, and when 
set decorate them nicely with sliced 
truffles and the remaining sauce that 
has beefi poured into timbale molds 
that have been previously lined with 
Aspic Jelly, and which have become 
set. Decorate nicely with these tim- 
bales of Aspic and Poulette Sauce, 
and garnish the dish with Crotltons, 
on which you will have placed por- 
tions of Aspic Jelly. Decorate the 
edges of the dish with Watercress, 
and place on the table cold. When 
ready to serve, serve a portion of 
the breast of the uuck or the entire 
breast of the small game on a croll- 
ton of Aspic Jelly, with the timbale 
turned out on the end of the chick- 
en or game and the other end gar- 
nished with Watercress. If chickens 
are used be careful to have spring 
chickens of one and a half pounds 
in weight. This la the real Creole 
Chaud-Proid that was served at the 
great feasts and banquets in the 
days gone by, when parties paid from 
$10 to $20 a plate. It is always an 
expensive dish, both from the cost 
of the ingredients and the care re- 
quired in making it. 



CHAPTER XX. 



STUFFIXGS AND DRI]:SSI1VGS FOft POULTRY, GAME, FISH, ETC. 



FORCEMEAT. 

Des Farcies- -Des Quenelles. 

The Creoles claim that oysters, 
eggs, chestnuts or truffles are the 
only elegant dressings for poultry 
or game, and oysters or egg stuffing 
for fish. The following are the meth- 
ods o£ preparing these dressings: 

Oyster Dresslns- 

Faroi aux Hultres. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 

1 Cup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed. 

1 Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 

i4 Square Incli Ham. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

% Teaspoonful of Sage. 

1 Sprig Each of Tliyme, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf, Hinced Very Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wet the soft of. the bread and 
squeeze thoroughly till you have one 
cup, judging the quantity of stuffing 
always by the size of the fowl to 
be stuffed, and adding more in pro- 
portion, if needed. Season the bread 
well with salt and pepper, and add 
the minced herbs, mixing well. Take 
a tablespoonful of butter and put 
in the frying pan. as it melts, add 
the onion, which must be chopped 
Very fine. Let this brown for about 
five minutes, and while frying add 
the bread and stir well. Then add 
the square inch of ham, minced very 
fine. Mix well and let all fry well. 
Season again to taste. Then add the 
two dozen oysters, cut in two, witl\ 
all the hard portions taken off. Mix 
all well, and fry for a few minutes 
longer. Then, If you prefer a dry 
dressing, place the pan in the oven 
and let the dressing bake for ten 
minutes. If you prefer, as many do, 
the moister and richer dressing, stuff 
the fowl or flsh immediately, and 
proceed to bake. Arrange and bake 
the fowl as in the directions on these 
special subjects. Twioe the above 
qauntity of bread will be needed, and 
perhaps a little more, in stuffing tur- 
key. Nothing is more elegant or 
rgcherchS than an oyster dressing. 
The flavor of sage is very much 
liked by some and disliked by others 
If used — and the Creoles always use 
it — add a teaspoonful sifted, and mix 
thoroughly with the bread before 
putting it in the frying pan, if two 
cups of dressing are used, and less 
for one cup, in proportion. 



Oyster Stnfling; for Poultry. 

Farci d'HuItres. 

All depends upon the -size of the 
fowl. For the ordinary-sized fifteen 
or sixteen pound turkey, take 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

1 Quart nf Stale Bread, Wet and Squeezed. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Tablespoonluls of Sage. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Drain .the oysters^; wet the stale 
bread with hot water, squeezing 
thoroughlj'. Chop fine the liver and 
gizzard of the fowl, and put a ta- 
blespoonful of lard into the frying 
pan. Mix in the chopped onions and 
add the chopped liver and gizzard. 
As it begins to brown, throw in the 
chopped herbs, and then add the 
bread which has been mixed 
well and seasoned with the 
chopped sage. Mix well. Add 
to this one tablespoonful of butter 
and stir, blending all thoroughly. 
Now^ add the pint or so of oyster 
water, and as it is reduced mix in 
the oysters. Stir for three br four 
minutes and take off and dress the 
fowl. This dressing is highly rec- 
ommended. 

Stuffing of TruiHes. 

Farci aux TrufEes. 

Vi Can of Truffles. 
1 Cup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed. 
1 Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 
% Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2^ Teaspoonfuls of Sage. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf, Minced Very Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for egg or oyster stuffing, 
using a quarter of a can of truffles 
cltopped, instead of the oysters or 
egg. But bear in mind that this is 
an expensive stuffing. Some fasti- 
dious epicures stuff the fowl en- 
tirely with truffles, but this will 
make the dish of turkey dressed 
in such manner cost at least $10. 

Egg Dressing, 

Farcis aux Oeufs. 

4 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 

1 Cup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

1 Chopped Onion. % Square Inch of Ham. 



144 



1 Teaspoontul of Butter. 
% Teaspoonful of Sage. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 
Leaf. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Wet the bread and squeeze thor- 
oughly. Chop the eggs fine and mix 
■with the bread. Mince the herbs 
and add. Season well with salt and 
pepper. Chop the onion and fry it 
in one tablespoonful of butter. As 
it browns add the bread, into which 
you have mixed the sifted sage, if 
desired. Add, as it fries, the half 
square inch of ham, minced very 
fine. Season again to taste, and let 
all fry about ten minutes. Take off 
the stove and stuff the fowl or fish 
and proceed with the arrangement 
for baking. Egg dressing is a very 
nice stuffing for fish, if oysters can- 
not be had. 

Stuffing for Ducks. 

Farci Pour les Canards. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 

1 Gup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed. 

1 Onion Chopped Very Fine. 

% Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Teaspoonful of Sage. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf, Minced Very Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The Creoles generally stuff the 
domestic duck when roasted, using 
an oyster stufling. (See recipe.) 
But n^any hold that the flavor of 
the wild duck is finer when not 
stuffed. This is a matter of taste, 
'he wild duck stuffed with oysters 
.s a most delectable dish. 

Ducks may be stuffed with truflles. 
This is much affected by epicures 
when serving the famous Mallard 
or Canvasback Ducks at great din- 
Ings. But a duck stuffed with truf- 
fles is a very expensive dish. 

The domestic duck is always 
roasted and stuffed. Serve with 
Currant Jelly. 

Stuffing for Goose. 

Farci Pour I'Oie. 

1 Cup of Mashed Potatoes. 4 Apples. 

4 Onions. ^^ Teaspoonful Powdered Sage. 

% Teaspoonful of Thyme. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Any stufling used in baking a 

turkey may be used for roast goose, 

such as oyster or egg, etc. But the 

following is an excellent special 

dressing and seems to bring out 

more than any other the flavor of 

the goose: 

Take one cup of mashed potatoes, 
four apples (peeled incely and cored) 
and four onions; one-half teaspoon- 
ful of sage, powdered well; one-half 
teaspoonful of thyme and pepper 
and salt to taste. Place the apples 
and onions and herbs in a saucepan , 



and add water sufficient to cover 
nicely. Let all cook together till 
soft. Then mash well and rub 
through a sieve. Add the cup of 
mashed potatoes and mix well, sea- 
soning with salt and pepper. Stuff 
the body and craw, sew up and truss 
the goose, and bake according to re- 
cipe. (See recipe for "Roast Goose.") 

A Simple Bread Stuffing. 

Farci de Pain. 

1 Pint of Stale 'Bread, Wet and Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Chopped Parsley 

and Thyme. 
1 Bay Leaf. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wet the bread and squeeze. Add 
the minced herbs and season well 
with salt and pepper. Mix all thor- 
oughly and fry in butter. 

Onion Stuffing. 

Farci aux Ognons. 

1 Pint of Stale Bread, Wet and Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Bach of Chopped Parsley 

and| Thyme. 
1 Bay Leaf. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for bread stufling, using also 
one large onion, chopped very fine, 
and mixed thoroughly. This is a 
very "nice dressing and cheap. 
FORCEMEATS. 
Quenelles. 

Quenelles are small balls of fowl, 
fish meat or other chopped and 
hashed ingredients rolled nicely, and 
used as a garnish for poultry and 
fish, and fish or meat sauces, often 
adding both to the taste and beauty 
of a dish. 

Creole Forcemeat. 
Quenelles a, la Creole. 

Calf's Liver. A Slice of Pork Fat. 
1 Onion. 2 Sprigs of Thyme. 
2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 
'6 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Take calf's liver and pork fat, in 
the proportions of two-thirds liver 
and one-third fat. Grind both to- 
gether very, very fine. Then mince 
an onion, and two sprigs each of 
thyme and parsley, and one bay 
leaf, and mix with the ground meat; 
add a half teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg and salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix well. Put one tablespoonful of 
hot butter in a frying pan and throw 
in the chopped meat. Let all blend 
well together without cooking for 
about two minutes, stirring all the 
time. Take the mixture off, and, 
when it cools, form into little balls 
'about the size and shape of a pecan. 
Roll these in flour, and then parboil 
in boiling water that has been well 



145 



seasoned with pepper and salt. The 
balls then become Quenelles, and are 
used as a garnish for meats, etc. 
Place around the meat and pour the 
sauce over and serve hot. These 
are the genuine Quenelles. 

Sausage Forcemeat. 

Quenelles de Saucisses. 
Vi Pound of Fresh Pork. 
2 Square Inches of Lean Raw Ham, 
1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of 
Parsley. 
A Finch of Grated Nutmeg. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Hash the pork; season well with 
salt and pepper, according to taste, 
adding a pinch of grated nutmeg 
and the chopped herbs and minced 
ham. Hash all very fine and make 
into small balls and use as de- 
sired. This is a nice garnishing for 
meat when served with sauces. 
Godlveanx Forcemeat. 
Quenelles Godiveaux. 
1i Ponnd of Suet. Vi Found of Lean Teal. 

1 TTablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. % Gill of Cold 
Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful Each of Minced Thyme and 

Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Raw Eggs. A Finch of Grated Nutmeg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Remove all the stringy tissue from 
the suet and pound in a mortar; 
hash the veal well and mix with the 
meat. Take a tablespoonful of flour 
and blend well with half a gill of 
cold milk and a tablespoonful of 
melted butter and add to the suet 
and veal and blend well. Season 
highly with salt and pepper, and 
add a pinch of grated nutmeg. Then 
add the yolks of two raw eggs and 
the white of one egfj. and, when 
well blended, strain ail through a 
sieve, roll into balls and use as 
needed. In making this forcemeat, 
poultry or game may be used in- 
stead of veal. 

Chicken Forcemeat. 
Quenelles de Volaille. 

2 Raw Chicken Breasts. 

The Yolks of 4 Eggs. Bread Soaked In Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Teaspoonful Each of Thyme 

and Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 

Cut up the chicken and pound in a 

mortar; add an equal quantity of 

bread soaked in nfllk or water and 

well squeezed; add the butter and 

the yolks of the eggs; blend well 

and season highly with salt and 

pepper and the minced herbs, and add 

a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix all 

together and roll into balls, and 

use as desired. 

Game Forcemeat. 
Quenelles de Gibier. 
The Breasts of Any Birds. 4 Eggs. 
I 1 Teaspoonful of Butter. 



1 Bay Loaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of 
Parsley. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

In making a forcemeat of game, 
use judgment in regard to quantity. 
The partridge is the best bird for a 
game forcemeat. Take two breasts 
of partridges, cut into pieces and 
pound in a mortar. Add the same 
quantity of bread that has been wet 
with milk or water and squeezed 
well. Add the butter and the yolks 
of four eggs, and season highly with 
salt and pepper and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and press 
all through a sieve. Two well- 
pounded truffles may be added. Use 
as desired. 

Fish Forcemeat. 

Quenelles de Poisson. 

% Pound of Firm Fish. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

H Pint of Cream or Milk. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Teaspoonful Each of Minced Thyme and 

Parsley. 

Salt and White Pepper to Taste. 

A Finch of Grated Nutmeg. 

The left-over fish may be utilized 
for these Quenelles, or take a half 
pound of any firm fish — Sheepshead, 
Redfish or Red Snapper. Take out 
all the bones and remove the skin. 
Pound the fish well in a mortar, and 
add gradually the well-whipped 
whites of three eggs. Add gradually 
the cream • or milk, and season to 
taste with salt and pepper, using 
white pepper. Add the grated nut- 
meg 'and minced . herbs. Mix thor> 
oughly, drain through a sieve, form 
into little balls, and use when need- 
ed. 

Crab Forcemeat. 

Quenelles des Crabes. 

The Meat of 12 Crabs. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. % Teaspoonful <rf 

Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of White Pepper. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

12 Mushrooms, if desired. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

Chop the onion very fine and fry 
in one tablespoonful of butter until 
a golden brown; then add a table- 
spoonful of flour and moisten with 
a quarter of a pint of water, or oys'- 
ter juice, till the sauce begins to 
thicken well; season with the salt 
and pepper and a'dash of Cayenne. 
Add the clove of garlic, finely minced, 
and the herbs. Then add the crab 
meat, finely minced, arid the mush- 
room's, if desired. Cook for a half 
hour in the saucepan, and then take 
off the fire and add the yolks of the 
eggs. Stir again for a moment, cooU 
and roll into balls and use as de- 
sired. 



CHAPTER XXI. 



SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

Des Sauces Pour les Poissons, des Viandes, la Volaille, le Gibler, etc. 



The Creoles, like their French an- 
cestors, hold that the three mother 
sauces, or "Sauces Mfires," are Brown 
Sauce, or "Sauce Espagnole"; the 
White Sauce, or "Sauce Allemande," 
cand the "Glace," or "Glaze." These 
are the foundation of all sauces, and 
upon their successful making depends 
the taste and piquancy of the num- 
berless variety of fancy sauces that 
give to' even the most commonplace 
dish an elegance all its own. The 
Creoles are famous for tlieir splendid 
.feau'ces, and the perfect making of a 
■good sauce is considered an indispen- 
sible part of culinary art and do- 
mestic economy. The first thing to 
learn in making saucee of every 
kind is how to make a good "Roux," 
or the foundation mixture of flour 
and butter, or flour and lard. We 
have the Brown Roux and the White 
Roux. In making a Brown Roux, 
this unfailing rule must be the 
guide: Never, under any considera- 
tion use burnt or over-browned flour. 

BroTrn Roux. 

Roux Brun. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonfal Flour. 

In making the roux, which Is the 
foundation of a fancy sauce, melt 
the tablespoonful of butter slowly, 
and add gradually the flour, sprink- 
ling it in and stirring constantly, 
till every portion is a nice, delicate 
brown. Never make it too brown, 
because it must continue browning as 
■the other ingredients are added in 
the order given in every recipe in this 
book. It is a great mistake to pile 
all ingredients, one after another, 
pell-mell, into a dish, in the course 
of preparation. The secret of good 
■cooking lies in following implicitly 
the gradual Introduction of the com- 
ponent parts in the order specified. 

In making a roux for cooking gra- 
vi-es or smothering meats, the pro- 
portions are one tablespoonful of 
lard and two of flour, butter always 
making a richer gravy than lard, 
and sometimes being too rich for 
.delicate stomachs. It is a great fad 
among many In our day to use noth- 
ing but butter in cooking. The Cre- 
oles hold that butter should be used 
in Its proper place, and lard in Its 
.own. The lard is not only less ex- 
pensive, but is far preferable to an 
Inferior quality of butter, and in 
many cases preferable to the best but- 



ter, according to the dish in course ol 
■ preparation. Properly made, the taste 
of lard can never be detected, and 
it is feared that butter is used by 
many to cover up, by its taste, the 
deficiencies of having made the roux 
improperly. If there is the slightest 
indication of burnt odor or over- 
browning, throw the roux away and 
wash the utensil before proceeding 
to make another. Remember that 
even a slightly burnt sauce will spoil 
the most savory dish. 

White Roux. 

Roux Blanc. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flour, 
The White Roux is made exactly 
like the Brown Roux, only that the 
butter and flour are put simultane^ 
ously into the saucepan, and not al- 
lowed to brown. It is then moistened 
witn a little broth or boiling water, 
and allowed to boil a few minutes 
till thick. The White Roux is the 
foundation of all ■white sauces, or 
those containing milk and cream. It 
Is also used In nearly all purges. In 
the Sauce Veloutfi it should be coIf 
ored. 

GliAZE. 

Glace. 

5 Founds Rump of Beef. 5 Pounds of Bonel. 

2 CalfB Feet. 
1 Large Herb Bouquet. 1 Stalk of Celery. 
3 Lnige Carrots. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Glace is the foundation of 
all sauces for roasts, filets, etc. In 
other words, It Is Lleblg's Beef Ex- 
tract, which every housekeeper may 
make and keep on hand for gravies 
for meats. It Is made as follows^ 
Roast five pounds of the rump of 
the beef. Take five or six pounds of 
bones of beef and two calf's feet. 
After roasting the beef well and 
brown, but rare, chop it In small 
pieces, and put in a pot with two 
gallons of water. Add to this the 
bones and calf's feet, all raw. Then 
add a large herb bouquet, and one 
stalk of celery and three large car- 
rots. Let the whole come to a boil. 
As the scum rises skim, and then sea- 
son with salt and pepper to tast«(. 
Let all boll till reduced to one quart. 
Strain this, and it will make a jelly 
I or glace when cold. Do npt , add 
any flour or grease. The good Creole 
cook considers it little sltort of a 



147 



crime to add flour to the gravies of 
roast or broiled beef. This glace is 
then used as a "deml-glace" for 
sauces for sweetbreads, when they 
are prepared in sautfes, fllets of beef, 
etc. In making this "deml glace," 
take one tablespoonful of the glace, 
and add a spoonful of Madeira or 
Sherry wine. It should always be a 
light sauce. Use this for thickening 
Sauce Espagnole. 

Ancliovy Sauce. 

Sauce aux Beurre d'Anchois. 

1 Tablespoonful of Anchovy Butter. 
IVi Tatlespoonfuls Flour. 
1% Tablespoonfuls Butter. 
Make a White Sauce (see recipe), 
and add to this a tablespoonful of 
Anchovy butter, which comes pre- 
pared. Let it melt, season to taste 
in the sauce, and serve. An Anchovy 
Sauce may be either brown or white. 
Serve with boiled flsh. 

Apple Sauce. 

Sauce Marmalade de Pommes. 

6 Large Apples. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 4 GloTes. 

1 Stick Cinnamon. 1 Cup Water. 
Cut the apples into pieces, peel ,and 
let them boil till mashed into a jelly, 
stirring frequently, to prevent burn- 
ing. Add the ground cloves and the 
stick of cinnamon, ground fine. Let 
them boil at least three-quarters of 
an hour, mashing as they become 
tender. Then take off the Are and 
press them through a coarse sieive. 
Add sugar to taste, add the butter, 
and set all back on the fire, and let 
it simmer gently for five minutes 
longer. Set to cool in a dish, and 
serve with Roast Pork or Roast 
Goose. The sauce must not scorch, 
or the taste will be spoiled. 

BSarnalse Sauce. 

Sauce Bfiarnaise. 

e Sballots. % CloTe of Garlic. 

y, Gill of French Vinegar. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Flour and Butter. 

Tolks of Four Eggs. 
A Grated Nutmeg. % Lemon's Juice. Glace. 

Chop the shallots and mince the 
garlic very fine. Blend the butter 
and flour, or take a good tablespoon- 
ful of Glace (see recipe), and moisten 
with a tablespoonful of White Wine 
and good white consommg, till you 
have about a pint. Set on the stove, 
in a porcelain-lined saucepan. Add 
the pepper and salt and butter, and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg. Add half a gill of vinegar 
and the juice of a lemon, according 
to taste and acidity. When of the 
consistency approaching starch, take 
from the fire and add the yolks of 
four eggs, beaten well, and stirring 
all the time, till you have the consist- 
ency of a thick starch. Serve im- 



mediately, with broiled steak, broiled 
chops, broiled flsh, etc. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Sauce BSchamel. 
2 Ounces of Raw Ham. 2 Fresh Mushrooms. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Pint of Veloute Sauce. 2 Gills Rich Cream. 
1 btick of Celery, Cut Very Fine. 
^^ Carrot, Cut Very Fine. 
^A Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 
1 Bnnch Sweet Herbs. 2 Cloves. 4 Allspice. 
Blade of Mace. 
Put the butter in a saucepan, and 
as it melts add the chopped onion, 
and let it stew until very tender, but 
do not let it brown. Mince the ham 
and cut the vegetables very fine, 
and add first the ham, letting it 
brown a minute, and then the vege- 
tables, herbs and spices. Let all 
'Simmer gently for ten minutes, with- 
out browning. Add the Veloutfie 
Sauce (see recipe,) stir in well, and 
bring all to a boil. Let it boil ten 
minutes, and be sure to stir constant- 
ly. Then add, by gentle degrees, the 
cream, which should not be heated, 
but which must be very rich and 
sweet (if not perfectly sweet it will 
spoil the sauce). When all this is 
blended, the sauce is of a velvet 
smoothness, and very delicious. Strain 
and set on the fire a minute longer 
to heat, and serve hot. It is served 
with fish, chicken and sweetbreads. 

Bordelalse Sauce. 

Sauce &, la Bordelaise. 

& Shallots. % Glass Claret. 

3-1 Pint of Sauce Espagnole, 

A Dash of Red Pepper. 

Cut two shallots very fine; put in 
a saucepan with a half glassful of 
Claret; reduce one-half; add three- 
quarters of a pint of good Sauce Es- 
pagnole (see recipe) and a dash of 
red pepper. Cook for twenty min- 
utes and serve hot. In serving this 
sauce, the fiavor may be increased 
by adding a dozen round slices of 
blanched Marrons. 

Bordelaise Sauce, Creole Style. 

Bordelaise Sauce a. la Crgole. 
1 Onion or 2 Shallots. 
1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Peel the onion or shallots and chop 
fine. Put in a saucepan with one 
tablespoonful of olive oil; let the on- 
ion saut§ well, and pour the sauce 
over tenderloin fllets or sirloin steaks 
when it is desired to serve these a. 
la Bordelaise. A tablespoonful of 
Red Wine may be added to the sauce. 

Brown Sauce. 

Sauce Espagnole. 

1 Pound of Neck or Brisket of Veal. 

Bones of Beef. 

1 Gallon of Water. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 



148 



V^ Can Huslirooms or M Oan Truffles. 
2 Ctiriots. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Glores Garlic. 1 Herb Bouquet. 
1 Wineglass of Bherr.y. 
Take a good quantity of bones, 
place in a gallon of boiling water, 
and make a strong consomme, sea- 
soning well with salt and pepper. 
Take a piece of the brisket or neck 
of the beef, and roast rare, so that 
the blood spUrts out when pricked 
with a needle. After roasting cut it 
in pieces of about one inch square. 
Take two tablespoonfuls of lard and 
three of flour, and brown slightly, 
stirring all the time. After brown- 
ing, add the water of the consomm§, 
w^hich has been reduced to about half 
a gallon, pouring It in slowly and 
stirring constantly. Then add jail 
the pieces of the roast beef which 
you have cut. Add three carrots, two 
cloves of garlic, one onion, an herb 
bouquet (tied together of thyme, 
parsley and bay leaf), and let the 
whole boil well two hours, stirring 
every five minutes until reduced to 
the consistency of starch. Then 
strain well through a strainer or 
sieve, season to taste, and set 
back on the stove to cook a few 
minutes longer. Taste, and if suf- 
ficiently seasoned take it off and al- 
low it to get cool. This sauce is then 
used as a foundation sauce, and will 
keep for at least one month in our 
climate of New Orleans, if put in 
a cool place in winter or the ice box 
in summer. 

The Brown Sauce, or Sauce Es- 
pagnole, is made by taking out of 
this foundation sauce one tablespoon- 
ful at a time, and then adding one 
■wineglass or two tablespoonfuls of 
Sherry, to dissolve, and a half pint 
of broth. Set it to boil again, and 
add a half can of mushrooms or truf- 
fles, as desired. It is used for all 
nrreats, flsh or fowl, served hot. 

If one does not desire to keep it, 
and it is a matter of economy to do 
so, it can be made by reducing the 
proportions for the dish to be pre- 
pared, simply browning one table- 
spoonful of butter and two of flour, 
adding at the right time a pint of 
boiling broth, and Sherry to taste. 

Bro'tvn Butter Sauce. 

Sauce aux Beurre Noir. 
Vi Pound of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Cut Parsley (not chopped). 
3 Tablespoonfuls Juice of Lemon or 
Vinegar, 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, and 
when it begins to smoke it is brown- 
ing. Then add two tablespoonfuls of 
cut parsley, and let it brown half a 
minute longer. Then add three ta- 
blespoonfuls of the juice of a lemon 
or Tarragon Vinegar, and let it sim- 
mer two minutes longer, and serve 
with Stingaree or Rai aux Beurre 



Noir (see recipe), calves' brains or 
crawfish boiled. 

Bread Sauce. 

Sauce de Pain. 

1% Ounces of Fresh Bread Crumba, 

% Cup of Cold Water. 

% Ounce of Butter. 
1 Cup of Cream or Milk. 

6 Whole Peppers. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Crumble the bread and place in a 
saucepan with the water; add the 
butter, salt and peppers. Cook for 
five minutes and add the milk. Cook 
five minutes longer, remove the pep- 
pers and serve hot. 

Caper Sauce. 

Sauce aux Capres. 
Make a White Sauce, as above, and 
add a half cup of finely-cut French 
capers before serving. This sauce is 
served with boiled mutton. 

CanllflOTrer Sauce, 

Sauce aux Chouxfleurs. 
For this sauce, as a foundation, 
first make the Cream Sauce (see re- 
cipe), and add to it the flowerets of 
the cauliflower, which you will have 
previously boiled till tender, and out 
very fine. Serve with boiled fish, 
veal saute, boiled caulifiower, etc. 

Chambord Sauce. 

Sauce a. la Chambord. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Large Onion Minced. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Large Tomatoes. 

1 Truffle, If Desired. 

G Thinly Sliced Mushrooms. 

1 Pint Oyster Wat«r. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

2 Si^rlgs of Parsley. 2 Cloyes, Mashed, 

4 Allspice, Ground. 
Brown the onion in the butter, but 
do not let it burn. Add three large 
tomatoes, chopped fine, with their 
juice and the finely-minced herbs, the 
thinly-sliced truffles and mush'rooms. 
Let these brown well for about ten 
minutes. Then add the pint of oys- 
ter water, and season to taste. Add, 
if you have thfem, three or four craw- 
fish, chopped fine, and one dozzen 
oysters. Let all boil twenty minutes 
longer, and season to taste. Serve 
with Baked Red Snapper and other 
baked fish. 

Champasne Sauce. 

Sauce au Champagne. 
1 Glass of Champagne. 2 Cloyes. 

6 Whole Peppers. 1 Bay Leaf. 

S-4 of a Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 

% Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 

Put the Champagne, cloves, peppers,' 

bay leaf and sugar in a saucepan; 

set on the flre and reduce for live 

minutes. Then moisten the mixture 

with three quarters of a pint of Sauce 



149 



Espagnole a,nd let It cook for fifteen 
minutes longer. Strain well and 
serve. 

Chill Sauce. 

Sauce au Chili. 
6 Tomatoes. 4 Green Peppers. 1 Onion. 
1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 
1 % Cups of Vinegar. 
Cayenne and Chill Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the vinegar and add the 
chopped tomatoes and green peppers 
and the minced onion, adding a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Let all boil one 
hour. Season to taste, strain, and 
serve with any fish or meats. 

Chestnut Sauce. 

Sauce aux Marrons. 

1 Pint of Large Boasted Cbestnnts. 
1 Pint of Boiling Stocll. 
1 Tablespoonful Flour. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Hoast the chestnuts, and peel and 
mash them very fine.. Make a Brown 
Roux with the flour and butter, and 
add the boiling stock. Let it boil 
for about five minutes, and add the 
mashed chestnuts, stirring constant- 
ly, and seasoning to taste. Let it 
boil for two minutes, take off and 
serve hot, with Broiled Dindonneau 
(turkey chicks). This is a great 
Creole dish and is considered a most 
reoherchfi and delicate one. The 
sauce may also be served with Boast 
Turkey. 

Celery Sauce. 

Sauce au C61eri. 
Mince the celery well; put it In a 
saucepan and cover with boiling wa- 
ter. Let it boil about thirty min- 
utes, until tender. Then make a 
Cream Sauce. 

Colbert Sauce. 

Sauce Colbert. 

% Pint of Madeira Sauce. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Consomme. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

I'be Juice of Half a Lemon. 
Put a pint of very thick Madeira 
Sauce (see recipe) in a saucepan, add 
gradually the butter and consomm§ 
and mix well without allowing the 
mixture to boil. When ready to 
serve add the juice of half a lemon 
and a teaspoonful of chopped par- 
sley. 

Cream Sauce. 

Sauce a. la CrSme. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Floor. 

2 Gills of Fresh MlllJ or Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Melt the butter in the saucepan, 
and add the flour gradually, letting 
it blend without browning in the 
least. Add the boiling milk or cream 
'and stir without ceasing. Add salt 



and white pepper to taste, and serve 
immediately with boiled fish, etc. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Sauce aux Airelles. 

Wash the cranberries in cold water, 
and pick well, rejecting all those 
that float; on top or are in any man- 
ner over-ripe and spoiled. Put them 
in a porcelain-lined saucepan, with 
one pint of water, and let them boil 
over a moderate fire, stirring occa- 
sionally with a wooden spoon, and 
Tnashing the fruit as much as pos- 
sible. When the berries have cooked 
about twenty minutes, remove the 
Saucepan from the fire, and add the 
sugar stirring in sufficient to swaet- 
en nicely. Let them cook at least 
ten or fifteen minutes longer, after 
adding the sugar, and put into an 
earthern bowl, and let the sauce cool. 
Never strain the sauce. Many do, 
but the Creoles have found out that 
cranberry jelly is a very poor and in- 
sipid sauce, compared with that of 
the whole fruit, when formed into 
a sauce in an earthern mold. Liquid 
cranberry is a very poor apology for 
the dainty crimson mold of the na- 
tive fruit. The following directions 
for cooking this fruit are given in 
detail, because so few know how to 
purchase and prepare it properly: 

Never, when buying cranberries, se- 
lect the pale, whitish fruit. They 
are unripe and unfit for use. Select 
fine, large, crimson-colored fruit. 

Never cook cranberries in a metal 
saucepan; nor even in one of agate 
or the brightest tin. The berries ab- 
sorb the taste, as they are an acid 
fruit, and your best efforts will fail 
in making a fine sauce. Use always 
a porcelain-lined saucepan. 

Do not put much water in the cran- 
berries. The proportion of a half a 
pint cupful to every quart should be 
rigidly observed. 

Never add the sugar to the cran- 
berries until they have first boiled 
steadily at least twenty minutes, or 
felse the cranberries are liable to 
burn. After twenty minutes, add su- 
gar to taste. Do not be sparing of 
the sugar. Be careful to measure 
out a good, full pint for every quart 
of berries you are cooking. Take 
the cranberries off the stove, and stir 
in the sugar thoroughly, and let 
them boil again at least ten or fif- 
teen minutes after you have added 
the sugar. Stir them often to keep 
from burning. 

Never put the cooked cranberries 
into tin or metal molds. Use always 
an earthenware bowl or mold. 

Never dip the molds into water 
before putting in the cranberries. Let 
them be well washed and dried some 
time, as dipping them into water 
renders the cranberries bittejc When 
you wish to remove the cranberries 



150 



from the bowl or mold press them 
on the top, and gently loosen them 
at the bottom by setting the mold 
Into hot water long enough to warm 
It through, and thus loosen the cran- 
berries, without warming them. 

And, finally, remember never to 
strain the cranberries, and not to 
use them on the same day on which 
they were cooked. Let them stand 
at least overnight, or twenty-four 
hours, in a cool place, before serving. 
Serve Cranberry Sauce with Roast 
Turkey. 

Crapaudine Sauce. 

Sauce 9, la Crapaudine. 

1 Pint of Sance Plquante. 
S Chopped Mushrooms. 
1 Teaspoonful of Dry Mustard. 
2 Teaspooufuls of Tarragon Vinegar. 

Put a half pint of very light Pi- 
quante Sauce on the Are, add the 
mushrooms finely chopped and a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, which has 
been well diluted in two tablespoon- 
fuls of Tarragon vinegar. Let the 
sauce boil for five minuetes and serve 
hot. 

Creole Sauce. 

Sauce a. la CrSole. 

2 Tomatoes. , 6 Shallots. 

1 Chopped Sweet Pepper. 

1 Glass Sherry. Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Make a Tomato Sauce quite brown. 
(See recipe.) Add the cliopped shal- 
lots and sweet pepper, and, when 
these are browned, add one vrine 
glass full of Sherry wine, seasoning 
highly. Serve with meats. 

Cucumber Sauce. 

Sauce aux Concombres. 

1 Nice, Tender Cucumber. 

2 Tablespooufuls of Prepared Mustard. 
The Yolk of One Egg. Seasoning to Taste. 

Peel and grate the cucumber, and 
add the mustard, mixing thoroughly. 
Add the juice of one lemon and the 
yolk of one egs, beaten thoroughly. 
This Is a delicious salad dressing. 

Currant Jelly Sauce . 

Sauce a, la Gelfie de Groseilles. 

Vs Tumbler of Currant Jelly. 

i Tablespooufuls of Butter. 1 GUI Water. 

1 Gill of Port or Madeira Wine. 

Melt the butter, and add the jelly, 
blending well, and then add the gill 
of wine and water. Add a little salt 
and sugar to taste. The sauce is 
much finer when made of wine with- 
out water, but this is a question of 
taste. If the wine only is used, 
double the proportions, or according 
to taste. This sauce is served with 
Venison and other game. 



Dravni Butter Sauce. 

Sauce aux Beurre. 

2 Tablespooufuls of 'Butter, 

1 Tablespoonful Chopped Parsley. 
Juice of 1 Lemon. 

) This sauce is made simply by melt- 
ing butter and adding a little chopped 
parsley. Add the juice of a lemon, 
if desired. It is used as a garnisli 
for broiled meat, fish, chicken, etc. 

Demi-Glace. 

Demi-Glace. 

1 Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 
1 Glass of Madeira Wine. 
1 Glass of Mushroom Liquor. 
1 Herb Boutiuet. 1 Teaspoonful of Pepper, 
, , , Salt to Taste. 
To one -pint of Sauce Espagnole 
(see recipe) add a glass of Madeira, 
wine arid a glass of mushroom liq- 
uor, a herb bouquet and a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Carefully remove all 
fat and set on the fire and cook for 
thirty minutes. Strain and use when 
needed. This sauce is used in all 
recipes where Madeira Sauce is in- 
dicated as a foundation sauce. 

Devil's Sance. 

Sauce &. la Diable. 

1 Onion. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 

3 Tablespooufuls of Butter. 

1 Fickle a Finger Long. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Mustard. 

2 Gills of Consomme. Salt and Cayenne. 
1 Glass of White Wine. Juice of a Lemon. 

Brown the onion in butter, and add 
the two cloves of garlic, minced very 
fine. When brown, add one pickle, 
minced very fine, and add a teaspoon- 
ful of mustard prepared. Then add 
two gills of consommfe and one glass 
of White Wine, and the juice of a 
lemon, and allow It to cook slowly. 
Season with salt and hot pepper 
(piment fort), and serve with shell 
fish, chicken, sweetbreads, etc. This 
is a hot sauce. 

Duxelle Sauce. 

Sauce Duxelle. 

1 Pint of Madeira Sance. 

% Glass of White Wine. 
12 Mushrooms. 2 Shallots. 

% Ounce of Beef Tongue. 
% Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt dnd Pepper to Taste. 

Put half a pint of Madeira Sauce 
and a half glass of White wine in a 
saucepan. Add the mushrooms, which 
must be chopped very fine. Then add 
the shallots, which will have also 
been chopped fine and browned in 
butter. Let this reduce slightly and 
add half an ounce of finely chopped 
cooked beef tongue. Let all boi for 
five minutes and serve hot. 



151 



Elgg Sauce. 
Sauce aux Oeufs. 

The Yollis of S Eggs. 

2 Chopped Hard-Bolled Eggs. 

1 Bay Leaf, Minced Fine. 1 Onion, 

6 Peppers. 

2 Tailespoonfuls of Flour. 2 Tablespooufuls 

of Butter. 

H Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Piut of Veal or Chicken Broth. 

Chop the onions and put in the 

saucepan with the butter and bay 

leaf. Stir in the flour to thicken and 

moisten with the broth. Mix well, 

and add the nutmeg, and salt and 

pepper to taste. Beat the yolks of 

the eggs separately with the Juice 

of halt a lemon. Pour gradually into 

the sauce, but do not let it boil after 

they are added. Press through a 

sieve, and, w^hen ready to serve. 

sprinkle with two chopped hard-boiled 

eggs and a teaspoonful of minced 

parsley. 

Hard-Egg Sauce. 

Sauce aux Oeufs Durs. 

Make a White Sauce, as above, and 
add three or two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped, but not too fine, and a little 
flnely-minced parsley as a garnish. 
I'his sauce is served with boiled fish 
or boiled chicken or other fowl. 

Genoese Sauce. 

Sauce a, la Genoise. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 GlasatuU of Claret. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
% Pint of Water. 
Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and Allspice to Taste. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter, stir 
in two tablesponfuls of flour, and mix 
well tin smooth. Then add a wine- 
glassful of Claret, stirring all well. 
To this add about half a pint of wa- 
fer, and season with pepper and salt 
and a little nutmeg and allspice. Let 
the sauce simmer and reduce to about 
one-half. Add parsley as a garnish 
and serve with boiled fish or boiled 
meat. 

Giblet Sauce, 
Sauce d'Abbattis. 

The Turkey Giblets. 1 Cnp of (Vater. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the giblets or simply the giz- 
zard into a saucepan and cover well 
tfith water. Let them simmer as 
long as the turkey roasts, then cut 
them fine and take the turkey out 
of the pan on which it has been 
roasted. Add the giblets and stir 
Well, and then add a cup of the water 
in which the giblets have been boiled. 
Season to the taste and serve in a 
sauce dish, pouring over the dressing 
when serving the turkey. 



HQllnndalse Sauce. 

Sauce a. la Hbllandaise. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. Yolk of 1 Egg,- 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
Sauce k la Hollandaise is nothing 
more than a Drawn Butter Sauce, to 
which the juice of a lemon and the 
yolk of an egg have been added. 
Melt the butter; add the juice of half 
a lemon; mix well and take off the 
stove and add tlie yolk of one egg, 
well beaten. Add a teaspoonful of 
-chopped parsley, beating steadily. 
This sauce is very light, and as soon 
as removed from the lire is .^served 
hot with the fish. 

Horseradish Sauce. 

Sauce au Raifort. 

i 
S Eggs. 1 Cup Cream. Grated Horseradish. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
% Pint of Consomme or Broth. 
Grate the horseradish in sufficient 
quantity for use, and place it in a 
saucepan with the boiling stock. Let 
it boil about ten minutes, or less, 
until tender. Season to taste. In 
the meantime rub the eggs in a bowl 
with the cream, beating, and mixing 
thoroughly. Add these to the horse- 
radish, stirring constantly ,but do 
not let the sauce boil, or the horse- 
radish will curdle. Serve with roast 
meats or with baked ficli. , 

Hunters' Sauie. 

, Sauce a, la Chasiseur. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

3 Tomatoes. 2 Onions. 6 Mushrooms. 

1 Pint of Consomne. 
Put the flour and butter into a 
saucepan and blend well; then moist- 
en with one pint of consommS or 
water; add the chopped tomatoes, 
onions and mushrooms and season 
with a pinch of salt and pepper; add 
an herb bouquet and let it boil for 
an hour; before serving add the juice 
of a lemon or six drops of vinegar. 
If you have fresh game two table- 
spoonfuls of blood may be added but 
do not let it boil after this. 
Italian Sauce. 
Sauce a. I'ltalienne. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flour. 
8 Shallots, Greens and White. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
% of a Lemon's Juice. % Can Mushrooms. 
Consomme. Salt sCui Pepper to Taste. 
Cayenne to Taste. 

' A Sauce a, i'ltalienne may be either 
brown or white. If fnushrooms are 
used, make a white sauce, that Is, 
let the butter and flour blend with- 
out browning. Add a half cup of 
consomme and a half can of chopped- 



152 



mushrooms, the white of the shallot 
(chopped very fine) and the juice of 
half a lemon. If a brown sauce, add 
the shallots to the butter and flour, 
which you will have browned, using 
the chopped white and green of the 
shallots. Then add a half pint of 
consomme, and let it simmer for 
about an hour, and add the juice of 
a lemon and serve. 

The white sauce is used for fish, 
the brown for meats. Always sea- 
son to taste. 

Financier Sauce. 

Sauce a. la FinanciSre. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

6 Stoned Olives. 12 Musbrooms. 

1 Glass of Sherry Wine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A DastL of Cayenne. 

Melt the butter, then remove from 
the fire and add the flour. Blend 
with a wooden spoon till smooth. 
Moisten with one pint of consommS 
till it reaches the consistency of 
cream. Then add the chopped mush- 
rooms, stoned olives, pepper, salt and 
Cayenne. Before serving add the 
wine. Serve hot. 

JoUe Fllle Sauce. 

Sauce a. la Belle Creole. 

The Yolks of 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

M Cup Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. % Cup of Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the butter into the saucepan, 
and add the flour, letting it blend 
well, without burning or browning, 
for this IS a white sauce. When it 
becomes a delicate yellow, add the 
bread crumbs, stir for one minute, 
and add the half cup of consomme 
or broth. Stir well, and add a half 
cup of cream, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Add the chopped parsley as a 
garnish, and a little onion juice. 
Take off the fire and add the well- 
chopped yolks of two eggs, and a ta- 
blespoonful of lemon juice. Serve 
with boiled fish or boiled meats of 
any kind. 

Lyonuaise Sauce. 

Sauce a. la Lyonnaise. 

1 Dozen Tomatoes. Equal Parts of Onions. 

% Spoon of Butter. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf, Minced 

Fine. 
Sherry to Taste. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

, Make a good Tomato Sauce (see 
recipe), and add to this the equal 
parts of onion browned in butter. 
Stir well, add a little lemon juice, 
and serve with any moats. 



Madeira Sauce. 

Sauce MadSre. 

2 Gills of Espagnole Sauce or Brown Saace. 
1 Gill of Truffles, Out in Two. 
1 Gill of Mushrooms, Cut in Two. 
1 Glass of Madeira Wine. 

Make a Sauoe Espagnole (see re- 
cipe), and let it boil for about five 
•minutes. Add salt and pepper to 
taste, and the mushrooms and truf- 
fles, cut in pieces. Let them boil for 
ten minutes, and then stir in the 
wine. If you have not the Madeira, 
use Sherry wine. Serve with Filet 
•of Beef Roasted, etc. 

Mattre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Sauce a, la Maitre d'Hotel. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

The Juice of % a Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Pint of Clear Water. 

Put the butter and the flour in the 
saucepan and let them blend without 
burning. Mix well over a slow fire, 
and add one pint of oonsomm§. Add 
the juice of half a lemon and the 
chopped parsley, and let all boil 
about fifteen minutes. When it 
reaches this point take off the stove 
and add the yolk of one egg, well 
beaten; mix well, stirring round, and 
serve with boiled fish, etc. 

Never add egg while the sauce la 
on the fire, as it will curdle immed- 
iately. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Sauce Mayonnaise. 
Yolk of 1 Egg. 
Sweet Oil. Lemon. Vinegar. 

Pepper and Salt. 
Take the yolk of one fresh egg, 
raw, and put in a bowl. The egg 
and the oil must be cold, and in sum- 
mer it is well to keep the soup plate 
in which you make the dressing on 
cracked ice in a pan, so that the oil 
will not run. Put the yolk in a plate; 
add, drop by drop, a little sweet oil 
from the bottle. When you have 
dropped about a spoonful, being 
careful to work it into the yolk of 
the egg drop by drop and blend all 
the time, take a lemon and drop a 
few drops into the mixture. It will 
at once begin to harden as you stir 
it in. Continue stirring till the egg 
grows hard, and then steadily, drop 
by drop, let the oil fall, working it 
all the time with your fork into the 
egg. Have another spoon, begin to 
jdrop in the lemon juice, working it 
the same way again till It hardens 
the egg. Then begin again with the 
oil and work again, and again drop 
the lemon till you have the juice 
of half a lemon and about two gills 
of oil, finishing with the oil. When 
the egg begins to curdle, add a little 
salt, but do not add this salt till 



' 153 



the mayonnaise is complete. Serve 
very cold, with salads, etc. 

Mayonnaise is the standing sauce 
for chicken salad, shrimp salad, crab 
salad, etc. When making for these 
large salads, as a garnish use three 
yolks of eggs and other ingredients 
in proportion. 

Mushroom Sance. 

Sauce aux Champignons. 

% Pint of Broth (white) or Boiling Water. 

Lemon Juice. 1 Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Make a Brown Roux, melting the 
butter in the saucepan, and adding 
the flour, and stirring till well 
browned. Then stir in the boiling 
stock, or water, if you have not the 
stock; add the mushrooms, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Add the juice 
of half a lemon and let it cook for 
about fifteen minutes longer. This 
is a fine sauee for Roast Filet of 
Beef. Pour the sauce over the filet, 
and serve hot. ^ 

Mint Sauce. 

Sauce Menthe. 

1 Good Handful of Mint, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar, 

1 Teaspoonful of Sugar. 
A Pint of White Beef Stock. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Chop one good handful of fresh 
mint and put it in a bowl; add a 
teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar and 
one teaspoonful of sugar. To this 
add one pint of good white beef 
stock. Mix all together and place 
in a bain marie or hot-water bath 
— that is, stand in a saucepan of hot 
water on the fire and let it warm 
without boiling. If the mint boils, 
it will be very bitter. Serve with 
roast lamb. 

Xormandy Sance. 

Sauce k la Normande. 

V Pint of Sauce Veloute. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of .Mushroom Liquor. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Fish Stocli. The Yofts of 

2 Eggs. 
Tbe Juice of Half a Lemon. 
Make a pint of Sauce Veloutfi (see 
recipe) and add the mushroom liquor. 
Reduce for about ten minutes and 
add two tablespoonfuls of Fish Stock 
or Oyster Juice; if not at hand add 
hot water. Let it all boil again, 
and then add the yolks of two eggs 
and the juice of a lemon. Strain 
througii a, fine sieve, and add a tea- 
spoonful of fresh butter and serve 
with fish. The sauce should be of the 
consistency of cream. 

Onion Sauce. 

Sauce Soubise. 

8 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
t Tablespoonful of Flour. Lemon Juice. 



Boil the onions until quite tender, 
adding salt and pepper. When soft, 
mash well and pass through a sieve. 
Take one spoon of butter and one of 
flour and melt, blending together 
without burning, or allowing to 
brown. In this cream dissolve the 
purfie of onions, boiling gently for 
ten minutes and stirring well. Add 
the juice of a lemon, a teaspoon of 
vinegar, and serve with cutlets of 
lamb, fried sweetbreads, 'etc. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Sauce aux Hultres.' 

2 Dozen Oysters. The Oyster Water. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the oysters in their own wa- 
ter. Add a nice herb bouquet while 
boiling. Take a tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour and put into 
a saucepan, and mix well without 
browning; water this with the juice 
of the oysters, sufficient to make one 
pint; season to taste. Let it boil 
for ten or fifteen minutes, and, when 
it reaches a thick consistency, serve 
with freshly added oysters, taking 
the old ones out, because oysters 
that have boiled more than three 
minutes are unfit for eating, being 
hard and indigestible; or the sauce 
may be served without the oysters. 
This is a sauce for boiled fish, etc. 

Parsley Cream Sauce. 

Sauce Sl la Cr&me de Persil. 
A Tablespoonful and a Half of Butter. 

A Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 
Half a Cup of Water or White Broth. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
To the recipe for White Sauce add 
one tablespoonful and a half of finely 
minced parsley. You may also add 
a tablespoonful of cream. This is 
nice' with boiled fish or boiled chick- 
en. 

Pepper Sauce. 
Sauce Poivrade. 

t Carrot, Minced Fine. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Onion, Minced Fine. 

% Pint of Consomme. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Wineglass of Sherry or Madeira. 

% Grated Lemon. 1 Small Piece of Celery. 

Salt and Blacli Pepper to Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Floor. 
' A Dash of Cayenne. 
Put the butter in the saucepan, 
and, as it melts, add the flour. Let 
it brown slowly, and then add one 
pint of Consomm^. Let it boil, and 
add the minced herbs and vegetables 
and the zest or outer skin of halt a 
grated lemon. (The zest is the skin 
of a lemon, grated off without touch- 
ing the injier white skin or pulp.) 
Let all boil slowly for an hour and a 
half. Add a wineglassful of Sherry 
or Madeira and season with salt and 



154 



black pepper (hot) and a dash of 
Cayenne. Let it boil for ten min- 
utes longer, take off the stove and 
strain, and serve with any game. 

Pepper Sance for Venison. 

Sauce Poivrade pour le Chevreuil. 

1 Carrot, MlQced Fine. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Onion, Minced Fine. 
^ Pint of Consomme. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Wineglass of 'Sherry or Madeira. 

% Grated Lemon. 1 Small Piece of Celery. 

Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoontul Flonr. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 
This sauce is made in exactly the 
same manner as Sauce Poivrade (see 
recipe), with this difference, that 
when it is to be served with veni- 
son a half glass of Currant Jelly is 
added, and the sauce allowed to boil 
ten minutes longer. 

Pickle Sance. 

Sauce aux Cornichons. 
A Tablespoonful and a Halt of Bntter. 

A Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 
Half a Cup of Water or White Broth. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
To the recipe for White Sauce 
(see recipe) add chopped gherkins, or 
any other vinegar pickles, using 
about two or three. Add, just be- 
fore serving. Serve with fish. 

Piqnant Sance, - 

Sauce Piquante. 

2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf. 

2 Pickles, 2 Inches In Length. 

1 Teaspoonful of Strong French Vinegar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cayenne or Hot Pepper. 
Chop two onions very fine. Smother 
in a tablespoonful <3f butter. When 
well cooked, without burning, add 
one tablespoonful of consommfi or 
water. Add two cloves of garlic, 
minced very fine, and the herbs 
minced very fine. Season to taste 
with hot pepper. Take two pickles 
about two inches in length, and cut 
into thin slices of about a . quarter 
of an inch In thickness. Put this 
into the sauce, with a teaspoonful of 
strong vinegar, and let the whole 
boil about five minutes. Serve with 
boiled beef, boiled beef tongue, boiled 
pork tongufc, or any boiled meats. 

Ponlette Sauce. 

Sauce a, la Poulette. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

^l Pint of Consomme or Water. 

Juice of an Onion. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

Melt the butter and flour, blending 

well without browning. Add a half 



pint of water, or consomm§, the 
juice of one lemon, and let it sim- 
mer twenty minutes. Season to 
taste. Take from the Are, add the 
yolks of two well-beaten eggs and 
the juice of a lemon and serve im- 
mediately. No sauce into which the 
yolks or eggs are beaten must be 
set on the fire after adding these. 
If necessary to keep warm, set in a 
bowl of boiling water (a "bain-ma- 
rie") till ready to serve. It is best 
served immediately. 

Ravlgrote Sance (Cold.) 

Sauce Ravigote. 

12 Shallots. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 1 Pickle. 

1 Tahlespoonful of Mustard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

The Yolk of an Egg. 
4 Sprigs of Chopped Parsley. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 
Chop the shallots, greens and white 
all very fine, and mince the cloves of 
two garlics very fine. Put these in a, 
bowl, and add one pickle of about 
three inches long, chopped very fine; 
drain the pickle first of all water; 
add a good bunch of parsley, chopped 
very fine. Mix all this together in a 
bowl, and add one tablespoonful of 
mustard. Mix well. Add a good ta- 
blespoonful of vinegar and salt and 
pepper to taste. Beat the yolk of ,an 
egg and mix well in the sauce. This 
sauce is to be served cold, with cold 
meats, turkey or fowl. 

Ravlgrote Sauce (Hot), 

Sauce Ravigote. 

12 Shallots. 1 Tahlespoonful of Vinegac 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Chop the parsley very fine. Have 
ready a "Sauce Veloutfie." (See re- 
cipe.) Add the other ingredients. 
Mix well. Place in a saucepan and 
set in boiling water and let it heat, 
and serve hot with fish, white meats 
of chicken, etc. 

Sance RSmoulade. 

RSmoulade (Cold). 

3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 1 Raw Tolk of Egg. 

1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

% Clove of Garlic, Mince^ Very Fine. 

V4 Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

A R6moulade is a cold sauce, and 

is always served with cold meats. 

Boil the eggs till hard. Remove the 

shells and set aside the whites, which 

you will have crumbled fine for a 

garnish. Put the yolks into a bowl 

mash very fine, till perfectly smooth, 

add the mustard and mix well, and 

the seasonings of vinegar and salt 

and Cayenne to taste. Then add 

the olive oil, drop by drop, 

working in the egg all the time, and 

then add the yolk of the raw egg. 



155 



and work in thoroughly, till light. 
Then add the juice of half a lemon. 
Mix well, increasing the quantities 
of oil or vinegar, according to taste, 
very slightly. If the sauce is not 
thoroughly mixed, it will curdle. It 
is now ready to be served with cold 
meats, fish or salads. 

Green RCmouladc. 

R§moulade Verte. 

3 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 1 Raw Tolk of Egg. 

1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar, 

3 Tablcspoonfuls ot Olive Oil. 

% Clove ot Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

^ Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. ^^ 

A Green Rgmoulade is made in ex- 
actly the same manner as the above, 
only it is colored with the juice ot 
spinach or parsley, using about two 
tablespoonfuls of either. 

Robert Sauce. 

Sa,uce Robert. 

2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful ot Butter. 
2 Cloves of Garlic. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 
2 Pickles, 2 Inches In Length. 
1 Teaspoonful of Strong French Vinegar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Cayenne or Hot Pepper. 
Make a Sauce Piquante (see recipe) 
and add a teaspoonful more of pre- 
pared mustard, and two more of 
minced parsley, the juice of a lemon, 
and let it boil up once, and serve 
with steak,, pork chops, liver saut6, 
turkey or goose. 

Spanish Sauce. 

Sauce Bspagnole. 
% Pound of Brisket or Veal. 
Bones of Beef. 
1 Quart of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

% Can Mushrooms or Vi Can Truffles. 

1 Carrot. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Sprigs Each "of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
1 Wineglass of Sherry. 
Take a good quantity of bones, 
place in a quart of boiling water, 
and make a strong consomm6, sea- 
soning well with salt and pepper. 
Take a piece of the brisket or neck 
of the beef, and roast rare, so that 
the blood spurts out when pricked 
with a needle. After roasting cut 
It in pieces of about one Inch square. 
Take two tablespoonfuls of lard and 
three of flour, and brown slightly, 
stirring all the time. After brown- 
ing add the water of the consomms. 
which has been reduced to about half 
A pint, pouring it in slowly and stir- 
ring constantly. Then add all the 
pieces of the roast beef which you 
have cut. Add three carrots, two 
cloves of garlic, one onion, a herb 
bouquet, tied together, of thyme, par- 
sley and bay leaf, and let the whole 



boil well two hours, stirring every 
five minutes, until reduced to the 
consistency of starch. Then strain 
well through a strainer or sieve, 
season to taste, and set back on the 
stove to cook a few minutes longer. 
Add one wineglass or two table- 
spoonfuls of Sherry to dissolve, and a 
half pint of broth. Set it to boil 
again, and add a half can of mush- 
rooms or truffles, as desired. It is 
used for all meats, fish and fowl, 
served hot. 

Sauce Tartare. 

Sauce a, la Tartare. 

A Mayonnaise Sauce. , 8 Shallots. 

H Clove of Garlic. 1 Pickle. 
A Handful of Parsley. Minced Fine. 
1 Teaspoonful Mustard. 
Prepare the Mayonnaise as di- 
rected above. Put in a bowl a half 
dozen shallots, greens and all, and 
chop fine; add a handful of parsley, 
chopped fine; and the half-minced 
clove, and one whole pickle, well 
chopped. Mix all this together and 
put in a cloth and strain out the 
juice 'by pressing. Add this Juice to 
the Mayonnaise, and add one tea- 
spoonful of mustard, salt, Cayenne 
^nd black pepper to taste. This is 
served with filet of trout, etc. 
Tomato Sauce. 
Sauce aux Tomates. 

1 Dozen Tomatoes. 
% Spoonful of Butter. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 
MlDCed Fine. 
Sherry to Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Take one dozen large, tomatoes, or 
one can, and put In a pot to boil, 
with one-half tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Add salt and pepper to taste, 
and one pint of water. Let it cook 
for about ten minutes and add 
minced thyme, parsley and bay leaf, 
very fine, and two cloves of garlic, 
minced fine. Let it boil, and, when 
well boiled, take from the fire and 
mash through a sieve, reducing to a 
pulp. Take a tablespoonful of flour 
and put in a saucepan, and add a 
half spoon of flour. When it blends 
and browns nicely, add the tomato 
juice, season nicely to taste, and, 
when ready to serve, add chopped 
parsley as a garnish. Serve with 
meat, fish or game. 

Veloute Sauce. 
Sauce Veloutfie. 

S Ounces Butter, or 1 Tablespoonful and a 
Half. 
1 Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 
, 2 Gills of Water. 

The Well-Beaten lolks of 2 Eggs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Juice ot a Lemon. 
1 Tablespoonful ot Chopped Parsley. 



156 



Blend the flour and butter as in 
White Sauce, only letting it become 
slightly yellow. Add by degrees the 
boiling water, and season to taste. 
A tablespoonful of white wine is a 
fine addition. Add the juice of half 
a lemon, and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Let it simmer for 
about ten minutes, and take from 
the fire, and add the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs. Serve immedi- 
ately with any boiled fish or meats. 

Tlnalgrctte Sauce. 

Sauce Vinaigrette. 

12 Shallots. 2 Tablespoonfals of Vinegar. 

5 TaWespoonluls of Oil. 

2 Tableepoontuls of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Mix all together as in a Sauce Ra- 

vigote, cold (see recipe), and add the 

oil and vinegar; serve cold, with 

cold boiled meat, cold boiled fish, 

etc. 

White Sauce. 

Sauce Blanche. 

A TaWespoonful and a Half of Butter. 
A Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 

Half a Cup of Water or White Broth. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Blend the flour and butter in the 
saucepan without browning in the 
least. Add by degrees the boiling 
water or White Consommg of veal 
or chicken, stirring until smooth, and 
boiling three minutes. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. Add the juice of half 
a lemon. If the sauce is to have 
other ingredients, this is the foun- 
dation for them. It must be of the 
consistency of thick starch to be- 
gin with, in the latter case. 

White Sauce. 

Sauce Allemande. 

4 Pounds of Raw Veal. 

The Bones of a Chicken. 



1 Gallon of Water. 1 Carrot. 1 Tamlp, 

Celery Tops. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Spoonfuls of Lard. 

1 Herb Bouquet of Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf. 

1 Stalk of Celery. 2 Long Carrots. 
1 Wineglassful of Madeira or Sherry Wine. 

Take the veal and the bones of the 
chicken and put into a pot with a, 
gallon of water. Add the herb bou- 
quet, tied together, and one chopped 
carrot, one turnip chopped, celery 
tops, and other ingredients of a 
good "pot-au-feu." Let all boil slow- 
ly for three hours until it is reduced 
one-half. Then salt and pepper to 
taste. This will give a white broth 
or consomme blanc. When boiled to 
this point, take off the flre and strain 
the broth into a jar. Now take two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and three 
of flour, and put into a saucepan to- 
gether, letting the butter and flour 
blend, without browning. Add all 
the broth to this, . stirring slowly 
while on the fire. Add- a good, strong 
bouquet of herbs, thyme, parsley and 
bay leaf, all tied whole together. Add 
two large carrots, and let it boil till 
reduced to one-half again. After it 
has reduced, season to taste, and 
when it has reached the consistency 
of starch take off the fire and strain 
and let it get cool. This sauce is 
used for all white meats and fish. 
When used for fish take one table- 
spoonful and moisten with a little 
fish broth. Add a wineglass of Sher- 
ry or Madeira, and set on the fire to 
heat, and add a pint of consomm6 or 
broth. This sauce Allemande will 
keep at least one month in our clim- 
ate, in the ice box. If one prefers 
to maks it as needed, follow the 
proportions of one tablespoonful of 
butter, two of fiour, and one pint of 
boiling broth. 



CHAPTER XXII. 



SALADS. 



Des Salades. 



The Creoles have always been fa- 
mous for the excellent salads which 
grace their tables. Salad, like soup, 
or gumbo, is the daily accompaniment 
of dipner in even the most humble 
Creole home. They hold, one and all, 
that a good salad is a most delightful 
dish, but a poor one is worse than 
none at all. 

The old Spanish proverb that "to 
make a perfect salad there should 
be a miser for vinegar, a spendthrift 
for oil, a wise man for salt, and a 



madcap to stir all these ingredients, 
and mix them well together," still 
holds as the unfailing Creole rule in 
making a good salad. The reason 
is clear. For the dressing of the 
salad should be saturated with the 
oil, before the salt, pepper and vin- 
egar are added. Results have proven 
however, where the salad is dressed 
in the bowl, that there can never 
really be too much vinegar, for, from 
the specific gravity of vinegar, com- 
pared to the oil, what is useless will 



157 



fall to the bottom ot the bowl. By 
dissolving the salt in the vinegar, in- 
stead of the oil, too it beconies more 
thoroughly distributed throughout 
the salad. But this will not hold 
where each makes his own salad 
dressing at table, as is common in 
Creole families. 

The simple French Dressing for 
salads is always the best for daily 
use, and also for formal dinners. It 
is not only lighter, as compared to 
the Mayonnaise Dressing, and, there- 
fore, far more acceptable at dinners 
where the courses are many, but the 
Creoles hold, like the French, that 
it is the only dressing for salads 
that are not intended for luncheons 
or teas, such as chicken, shrimp or 
crab salads. A Mayonnaise Dressing 
for salad should never be used at the 
family dinner or formal dinings. 

A meat salad is never an economi- 
cal article of food, if one counts all 
the items of cost. The wretched 
combinations, too, which pass for 
Mayonnaise, and which are nothing 
more than a paste spread over the 
top of the salad, or stirred through 
with a mixture of pepper, vinegar 
and salt, cannot be too greatly con- 
demned. The making of a good Ma- 
yonnaise is a matter of art, and re- 
quires the skilL that comes from ex- 
perience. Practice will teach that 
there is no need for useless expendi- 
ture of. time in making this dressing, 
and that once you have learned the 
simple trick of securing the good 
start in the way of blending, or rath- 
er "working," the oil into the egg, 
drop by drop, the task of making a 
fine Sauce a. la Mayonnaise, becomes 
a very simple and easy one. The 
Mayonnaise, which is intended, as 
stated above, only for meat dressings, 
and the French Salad Dressing are 
the only two in general use In Cre- 
ole households. 

The Creoles serve salads for break- 
fast, luncheon and dinners, while no 
elegant supper is considered com- 
plete without a salad. The ancient 
Creole dames have always declared 
that for health the green salad, with 
the simple French Dressing, is the 
proper one. Such a salad is to be 
found daily on their tables. Make 
the French Dressing acc»rding to 
the directions given in the subjoined 
recipes, and pour this over the let- 
tuce, with a tablespoonful of pars- 
ley, cut very fine, sprinkled over 
again. Salads of this order, are, in- 
deed, the most healthful in the world. 
The old Creoles say that the family 
that eats much oil will never know a 
headache, and the medicinal virtues 
of lettuce and celery are such as are 
acknowledged by physicians, and all 
nervous and energetic people require 
them as sedatives. The French say 
that the Americans eat too much 
meat, and too little vegetables. Hap- 
pily, the Creoles know how to blend 



both, and they declare that this ac- 
counts for the longevity and good 
health of the ancient members of 
the race. 

Plain French Dressings for Salads. 

Assaisonment Frangais. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of the Best Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar, According to 

Taste. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

First put the oil into a small bowl. 
Then add gradually the salt and pep- 
per until all are thoroughly mixed. 
Then add gradually the vinegar, stir- 
ring continually for about a minute. 
It is now ready to pour over the sal- 
ad, and remember that it must be 
mixed thoroughly. The proportion of 
vinegar varies according to the salad 
to be dressed. Lettuce salad requires 
but little; tomato salad, corn salad or 
Doucette require more. Serve this 
dressing with lettuce, tomato, onion, 
cucumber and other vegetables and 
green salads. 

Frencb Dressing No. 3. 

Assaisonment Frangais. 

3 Talilespoonfuls of Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

A Saltspoon Bacli of Black Pepper and Salt. 

Chopped Onion and Parsley. 

The Juice of Half an Onion. 

Mix these in the order given above, 

adding the onion Juice and parsley, 

well chopped, last. This is a more 

elaborate French dressing. Serve 

with the same salads as above. The 

oil' may be omitted for those who do 

not like it, but it will be no longer 

in either of these recipes a French 

Dressing. The Creoles hold that the 

oil is a very healthy, digestible and 

essential ingredient. 

JUustard Dressing. 

Assaisonment a. la Moutarde. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg, If Desired. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Blend the mustard and the oil, add- 
ing the latter, drop by drop at first, 
and then proceeding more confidently. 
Whenever the dressing appears to be 
curdling, add a few drops of vinegar, 
and work rapidly till it becomes 
smooth again. Add the salt and 
pepper, and when the dressing is 
finished, use It for celery salad, fish, 
tomatoes, potatoes, etc. If the oil 
appears to separate from the other 
ingredients, It- can always be rubbed 
into them smoothly again by adding 
a few drops of vinegar. In all these 
salads the question of oil and its 
measurements can only be approxi- 
mated. Good judgment must al- 
ways be the final test. 



158 



Creole Freucb Dresslnsr. 

Assaisonment a. la Creole. 

3 Tablespoontuls of the Best Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoouful of Vinegar. 

1 Teaspoonful Mustard. 

The Yolk of a Hard-Bolled Egg. 

Salt and Feppez to Taste. 

Blend the oil and salt and pepper 
in the manner above indicated, and 
then add these to the mustard drop 
by drop, alternating with the vinegar. 
When well blended add the well- 
mashed yolk of a hard-boiled egg. 
Stir well, and serve with lettuce, 
celery or potato salad. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Sauce Mayonnaise. 

yolk of 1 Egg. 
Sweet Oil. Lemon. Vinegar, 

Pepper and Salt. 
Take the yolk of one fresh egg, 
raw, and put it in a bowl. The egg 
and the oil must be cold, and in sum- 
mer it is well to keep the soup plate 
in which you make the dressing on 
cracked ice in a pan, so that the oil 
will not /•un. Put the yolk In a, 
plate; add, drop by drop, a little 
sweet oil from the bottle. When 
you have dropped about a spoonful 
being careful . to work it into the 
yolk of the egg drop by .drop and 
blend all the time, take a lemon and 
drop a few drops into the mixture. 
It will at once begin to harden as 
you stir it in. Continue stirring till 
the egg grows hard, and then stead- 
ily, drop by drop, let the oil fall, 
working it all the time ' with your 
fork into the egg. Have another 
spoon, begin to drop in the lemon 
juice, working It the same way 
again till it hardens the' egg. Then 
begin again with the oil and work 
again, and again drop the lemon till 
you have the juice of half a lemon 
and about two gills of oil, finishing 
with the oil. When the egg begins 
to curdle, add a little salt, but do . 
not add this salt till the Mayonnaise 
is complete. Serve very cold, with 
salads, etc. 

Mayonnaise is the standing sauce 
for chicken salad, shrimp salad, crab 
salad, etc. When making for these 
large salads, as a garnish use three 
yolks of eggs and other ingredients 
in proportion. 

R£moalade Dressing, 

Sauce Remoulade. 

3 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 1 Raw Yolk of Egg. 

1 Tablespoontul of Tarragon Vinegar. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

H Clove of Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

% Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

A RSmoulade is a cold sauce, and is 
always served with cold meats. Boil 
the eggs till hard. Remove the shells 
and set aside the whites, which you 



will have crumbled fine for a gar- 
nish. Put the yolks Into a bowl, and 
mash very fine, till perfectly smooth. 
Add the mustard, and mix well, and 
the seasonings of vinegar and salt 
and Cayenne to taste. Then add the 
olive oil, drop by drop, working in 
the egg all the time, and then add 
the yolk of the raw egg, and work 
in thoroughly, till light. Then add 
the juice of half a lemon. Mix well, 
increasing the quantity of oil or vin- 
egar, according to taste, very slight- 
ly. If the sauce is not thoroughly 
mixed, it will curdle. It is now ready 
to be served with cold meats, fish or 
salads. 

Vinaigrette Dressing. 

Sauce Vinaigrette. 

12 Shallots. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar, 

5 Tablespoonfuls of Oil. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Chopped Pareley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Mix all together, as in a Sauce 

Ravigote, cold (see recipe), and add 

the oil and vinegar; serve cold, with 

cold boiled meat, cold boiled fish, 

etc. 

AnchoTT Salad. 

Salade d'Anchois. 

1 Box of Anchovies. 
A Plain French Dressing, 
Cut the sardines into pieces of 
about an inch in length. Season 
nicely with a French Dressing and 
serve. This is a delicious luncheon 
dish. 

Artichoke Salad. 

Artiohauts en Salade. 

1 Pint of Cold Boiled Artichokes. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vinegar. 
1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley, 
French Dressing, 
Boil the Artichokes. (See recipe). 
When cold, peel them and cut into 
quarters. Add chopped parsley and 
the French dressing; mix, and serve 
very cold. 

Tips of Asparagns Salad, 

Pointes d'Asperges en Salade, 

1 Pint of Asparagus Tips. 

A Plain FreOch Dressing. 
Boil the Asparagus tips. (See re- 
cipe.) When cold, place on a dish 
and garnish nicely. Serve very cold, 
with French Dressing. 

Bean Salad. 

Salade d'Haricots. 

1 Pint of Cold Beans. 
Vinaigrette Sauce. 
This is a nice way of utilizing cold 
left-over red or white beans. Serve 
with a Vinaigrette Sauce. (See re- 
cipe.) 



159 



Beet Salad. 

Salade de Betteraves. 
4 Large Red Beeta. French Dressing. 
Boll the beets till done, and then 
peel and slice nicely. Set them to 
cool and pour over them a French 
dressing or a plain dressing of vin- 
egar, salt and pepper. This is a nice 
spring or winter salad in New Or- 
leans. 

CaulIflOTrer Salad. 
Chou-fleur a. la Vinaigrette. 

1 Pint of Boiled Cauliflower. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Faraley. - 

1 Teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

A French Dressing (plain). 

Boil the cauliflower as directed. 
(See recipe.) Then separate the 
flowerets; mix them with parsley, 
and cut the remainder very fine and 
mix also. Let it cool. Serve with 
a French dressing, after adding flrst 
an extra teaspoonful of Tarragon 
vinegar. This is a famous and very 
popular Creole way of serving cauli- 
flower. 

Celery Salad. 

Salade de Celeri. 

1 Pint of Crisp French Celery. 
2 Eard-Boiled Eggs. French Dressing. 

Cut the celery into pieces of about 
a quarter of an inch. Chop two hard- 
boiled eggs, not too fine, and mix 
well with the chopped celery. Blend 
all with French dressing and serve. 
This is a delicious salad. 

Celery Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise de Celeri. 

1 Pint of Crisp White Celery. 
A Mayonnaise Sance. 
Chop the celery, or rather cut fine, 
as indicated in the above recipe. Mix 
the Mayonnaise with it. Garnish 
nicely with celery tips and serve. The 
mustard dressing is even nicer than 
the Mayonnaise for this salad. 

Chervil Salad. 

Salade de Cerfeuil. 

1 Pint of Chervil. 
A Plain French Dressing. 
Chervil is a delicious salad herb, 
much affected by French and Creole 
gourmets. It is served cut fine be- 
tween bits, in the same manner as 
Lettuce Salad, With a French Dress- 
ing. 

Chicken Salad. 
Mayonnaise de Volaille. 

1 Pint of Cold Boiled Chicken. 

% Pint of Mayonnaise Sauce. 

1 Head of Crisp Fresh Lettuce. 

Cut the chicken into small dice. 

Chop half of the lettuce very fine, 

and season well with salt and pepper. 

Make a bed of the remainder of the 

lettuce leaves, and place first a layer 



of the chicken and then of the let- 
tuce, until you have used all. Spread 
the Mayonnaise Sauce over the top 
nicely, and garnish prettily with slic- 
es of cold hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
beets, celery tips, etc. For chicken 
and celery salad follow the recipe 
for Volaille en Salade, given under the 
heading of "Poultry." (See recipe.) 
Left-over chicken may be utilized In 
either of these salads. 

Crab Salad a la Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise de Crabes. 
1 Pint of the Meat of Crab (hard shell). 
Mayonnaise. 
Hard-Bolled Eggs. Garnishes. 
Boil and pick crabs sufficient to 
give a pint of meat. (See recipe for 
Boiling Crabs.) Season well with 
salt and pepper. Place in a dish, on 
a bed of crisp lettuce leaves, spread- 
ing over them the Mayonnaise Sauce, 
and garnish nicely with hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced beets and tips of celery. 

Crawfish Salad. 

Mayonnaise d'ficrevisses. 

3 Dozen Crawfish. 

A Sauce a la Mayonnaise. 

Boil the crawfish, pick the meat 

out of the shells, heads and tails, 

break them into pieces, and prepare 

in exactly the same manner as Shrimp 

Salad. 

Cress Salad. 

Salade de Cresson. 
Cress. Vinegar. Salt and Pepper. 
Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as lettuce, washing and bringing 
to the table firm and crisp. In this 
salad use for dressing only Tarragon 
vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. 

Cucnmber Salad. 

Salade de Concombres. 

2 Fine Cucumbers. 
A Plain French Dressing. 
Wash and slice two nice young 
c^icumbers, and use a plain dressing 
of vinegar, salt and pepper. This 
is a very delicious salad. There are 
many so-called elegant novelties in- 
troduced lately in the way of serving 
cucumbers, such as stuffed cucum- 
b'ers, fried cucumbers, etc. The Cre- 
oles look with disdain, and justly, 
on these silly innovations in the serv- 
ing of a vegetable which nature in- 
tended to be used for salad purposes, 
and nothing else. 

Com Salad, 

Salade de Maches, ou Doucette, 

1 Pint of Corn Salad. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

This is an excellent salad, and is 
prepared and served with a French 
dressing. Take one pint of fresh 
Doucette and pare off the outer stale 



100 



leaves, if there are any; cut off the 
roots. Wash the Doucette well in 
two waters, drain in a napkin and 
place in the salad bowl. When ready 
to serve add a plain French dressing 
but not before. Mix well, so that 
every portion will be impregnated 
with the dressing. Serve very cold. 
A garnish of two hard-boiled eggs, 
sliced or cut in quarters, or of two 
medium-sized beets, which may be 
added both for taste and effect. 

Dandeloin Salad. 

Salade de Dent-de-Lion 

1 Pint of Fresh White Dandelion. 
A. Plain French Dressing. 

Cut off the roots and green portion 
of the leaves; wash and steep in salt 
and water. When they become crisp, 
drain and press dry; rub the salad 
bowl with a clove of garlic and sea- 
son the dandelions with French 
dressing. This salad may also be 
served with two hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters or sliced and laid 
over; or with two medium-sized 
beets, sliced, and seasoned with a 
plain French dressing. 

Endive Salad. 

Salade de Chicor^e. 

1 Pint of Endives. French Dressing. 
1 Teaspoonfnl of Chervil, Chopped Very Fine. 

Prepare the endives in the same 
manner as the lett-uoe. When ready 
to serve, add the chervil and the 
French dressing. If endives stand, 
like lettuce, they will wilt after be- 
ing dressed. Serve immediately. 

Fish Sulad. 

Salade de Poisson a, la Mayonnaise. 

1 Pint of Cold Boiled Fish. 
1 Head of liCttuce. Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Use cold boiled left-over fish,, pick- 
ing nicely into bits of about an inch 
and a half square. Follow the same 
directions as in the above recipes, 
only do not mix lettuce and flsh in 
layers. There is nothing nicer than 
a flne flsh salad. 

Green Pepper Salad. 

Salade de Piments Doux a. la Cr6ole. 

4 Tomatoes. 2 Green Peppers. 1 Large Onion. 
French Dressing, Plain. 

Slice the tomatoes, onions and 
green peppers nicely and thin, ar- 
range on a dish, placing a layer of to- 
matoes, an alternate layer of onion 
and green pepper, and tomatoes 
mixed. Dress either before bringing 
to the table, or at the table, with 
French dressing. This is a great 
Creole family salad, and a very 
healthy one. 



Green Peppers 2k I'lSspgnole, 

Piments Verts en Salade a I'Es- 

pagnole. 
6 Green Peppers. 3 Tomatoes. 
A Plain French Dressing. 
Parboil the peppers so that they 
will peel easily, and scald the toma- 
toes. Peel them, removing the seeds 
of the peppers. Cut the peppers into 
one-inch pieces, slice the tomatoes, 
and serve with plain French dress- 
ing as a Salad. 

Lentil Salad. 

Salade de Lentilles. 

1 Pint of Lentils. 
A Vinaigrette Sauce (See Recipe). 
Lentils are prepared in the same 
manner as Bean Salad (see recipe), 
and served with Vinaigrette Sauce. 
They make a cheap, excellent and 
healthy salad. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Salade de Laitue. 
3 Heads of Lettuce. 
French Dressing. 2 Eggs. 
Take fresh, crisp lettuce of suffi- 
cient quantity for the number to be 
served, three young heads being 
enough for six. Dip in cold water 
examining each leaf, and pick over 
carefully, and select the fresh crisp 
leaves. Place all these in a salad 
bowl, and garnish nicely with sliced 
hard-boiled egg. Never dress the 
lettuce before bringing to the table. 
The vinegar causes the leaves to wilt 
utterly, and takes away all the rel- 
ish which one experiences from look- 
ing at a fresh, crisp dish, and also 
spoils a flne table garnisli. Bring to 
the table, and let the sauce, always a 
plain French dressing or Creole dress- 
ing preferred, be made at the table. 
Generally each makes the dressing to 
suit himself or herself, using propor- 
tions of greater or lesser quantity 
than those mentioned in the recipe. 
If one person dresses the salad for 
the table, use the proportions given 
above in any of the French salad 
dressings for this amount of let- 
tuce. This is one of the nicest and 
most refreshing as well as one of 
the healthiest of all salads. 

Louisiana Salad. 

Salade Louisianaise. 

2 Lettuce Heads. 6 Pickled Cucumbers. 
2 Dozen Pickled Onions. A Plain FrencU 
Dressing. 
Use, in this fancy salad, lettuce, 
pickled cucumbers, pickled onions, 
cut in dice, and serve with a French 
dressing. 

Olxra Salnd. 
Salade de Fevi. 

i Dozen Boiled Young Okras. 
French Dressing. 
Boil the okra as directed. (See re- 
cipe.) When cold, dress nicely with 



161 



vinegar, salt and pepper, or, if pre- 
ferred, the plain French dressing, and 
serve very cold. This is a most de- 
lightful summer salad, the okra being 
very cooling in our tropical climate. 

Spanish Salad. ' 

Salade t I'Espagnole. 

t Sliced Tomatoes. 2 Dozen Pickled Onions. 
% Pint of Mayonnaise Dressing. 
This is a very much affected salad, 
made of sliced tomatoes and pickled 
onions, prettily arranged around a 
small bed of Mayonnaise heaped in 
the center. 

String Bean Salad. 

Haricots Verts en Salade. 

1 Pint of Gold Boiled String Beans. 
French Dressing (plain). 
Only very young and tender beans 
should be used for this salad. Boil 
as directed under the heading "Veg- 
etables," and put the beans in a sal- 
ad bowl and allow to cool well. Serve 
with a plain French dressing, or, 
better still, a simple dressing of vin- 
egar and a dash of Cayenne. 

Tomato Salad. 

Salade de Tomates. 

4 Fresh Fine Tomatoes, 
Frenoh Dressing. 

Slice the tomatoes nicely and place 
on a salad dish. Never peel or scald 
tomatoes intended for salad. Serve 
nicely with a plain French dressing 
or any of the above dressings. To- 
matoes may also be served with Ma- 
yonnaise dressing. In this case place 
them on a bed of crisp, fresh lettuce. 
whole, and serve one to each person, 
or cut them in halves. Tomatoes 
with Mayonnaise is a luncheon dish, 
or a supper dish. 

Iced Tomatoes. 

Tomates Frappg. 

9 Whole Tomatoes. 1 Pint Mayonnaise Sance. 
A Garnish of Chopped Ice. 
Take the tomatoes whole. Lay on 
a bed of lettuce or cress, as indi- 
cated above. Garnish with chopped 
Ice, and serve very cold with Mayon- 
naise Sauce. This is delicious and 
very elegant. 

Tomato, Green Pepper and Onion 
Salad. 

Salade a. la Crgole. 
4 Tomatoes. 2 Green Peppers. 1 large Onion. 

French Dressing, Plain. 
Slice the tomatoes, onions and green 
peppers nicely and thin; arrange on 
a dish, placing a layer of tomatoes, 
an alternate layer of onion and green 
pepper, and tomatoes mixed. Dress 
either before bringing to the table, 
or at the table, with French dress- 
ing. This is a great family salad 
among the Creoles, and a very 



healthy one. The Creoles follow the 
old adage, that the taste of the on- 
ion must only lurk within the bowl 
when using it for salad. More than, 
this renders the salad disagreeable 
and coarse. 

Watercress Salad. 

Salade de Cresson. 

1 Pint of Watercress. 
Minced Potato, If desired. 

A Plain French Dressing. 
This salad is made of watercress 
simply, or watercress and minced po- 
tatoes, mixed in equal quantities, and 
served with a French dressing. It 
is a most healthy, light and excellent 
salad, especially in summer. The 
salad is delightful without the pota- 
toes. They may be added if desired. 

The Gardener's Wife Salad. 

Salade a. la JardiniSre. 

1 Carrot 3 Beets. 
% Cup of Green Peas. 1 Cup String Beau. 
A Plain French Dressing. 
Take fine strips of vegetables of 
different colors, cooked and cojd, 
with green peas and string beans, 
and dress nicely with oil and Vin- 
egar and serve. 

Sardine Salad. 

Salade de Sardines. 

1 Box Sardine^. 
A Plain French Dressing. 
Cut the sardines into pieces of 
about half an inch in length. Season 
nicely with a French dressing and- 
serve. This is a delicious luncheon 
dish. 

Potato Salad. 

Salade de Pommes de Terre. 

3 Large Cold Boiled Potatoes. 

2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

9 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 1 Large Onion, 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

This is a nice way of utilizing cold' 
left-over potatoes. But the freshly 
boiled potatoes always make the' 
nicest salad. Pare and peel the po- 
tatoes, if freshly boiled, and let them 
cool. Prepare the salad dressing, fol- 
lowing implicitly the directions given 
for plain French' dressing, only here, 
the quantities are larger in propor- 
tion. Add the vinegar, stirring con- 
constantly. A dash of mustard may 
be added, if desired. Mince the on- 
ion very fine, and cut the potatoes 
into dice or slices, and mix them 
carefully with the onion. Then add 
the dressing, turning the potatoes in-, 
to it without breaking. Sprinkle all 
with parsley, nicely chopped, and', 
serve cold. 



Russian Salad. 

Salade a, la Russe. 

2 Carrots, 2 Parsnips. 

1 Cup of Cold Mlneefl Fowl. 3 Anchovies. 

1 Dozen Oliyes. 3 Caviares. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sauce a la Tartare. 

1 Teaspoonful of Mustard. 
This salad is made of cooked car- 
rots parsnips, beets, cold roast beef, 
cold' ham, a truffle (if it can be af- 
forded), all cut into fancy or dice- 
shaped pieces. Use one ounce of each 
of the meats, or simply one cup of 
cold minced fowl, as it may not be 
convenient to have all these meats 
at hand in households. Add six 
boned anchovies, and one dozen olives 
and two caviares, and serve with Tar- 
tare Sauce, or with a French salad 



dTessing, to which mustard lias been 
added. It is a heavy salad. 

Surlinp Salad. 

Salade de Chevrette a. la Mayonnaise. 

2 Pints of Cold Boiled Shrimp. 
1 Head of Crisp Lettuce. Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Talce Lake Shrimp and River 
Shrimp combined, if you have them. 
Cut the larger Lake Shrimp into two. 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Chop som.e lettuce. Season Well. 
Place first a layer of shrimp and then 
of lettuce, and spread over all a Ma- 
yonnaise Sauce. Garnish nicely with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs, sliced beeta 
and celery and lettuce tips, and serve 
very cold. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 
KGGS. 

Des Oeufs. 



A chapter on eggs would be super- 
fluous in any cook book, were it not 
for the fact that there are many, 
many women who cannot tell for a 
certainty just how long to boil an 
egg soft or hard, just when the exact 
point is reached when the omelette 
is cooked to a nicety, and how to 
send to the table in all the perfection 
of good cooking that most delicate 
and palatable dish, the "Scrambled 
Egg." 

This book will not deal with the 
many new and more or less unpala- 
table and undigestible methods of 
cooking eggs, methods which, under 
high-sounding names, nevertheless 
rob the egg of all possible beneficial 
effects by "cooking it to death," for 
an egg that has been cooked or 
boiled for twenty or twenty-five min- 
utes is about as indigestible an ar- 
ticle of food as can be conceived. And 
as for the flavor of the egg, it has 
disappeared. 

The Creoles have very wisely es- 
chewed all innovations in cooking 
eggs that require more than five to 
eight minutes to cook to perfection. 
They cling to the old-fashioned soft- 
boiled egg, the hard-boiled egg, fried 
egg, scrambled and. poached eggs. 
They have retained many ancient 
French and Spanish methods of cook- 
ing eggs, but none of these, followed 
properly, according to the time-hon- 
ored customs, calls for more than 
five or eight minutes at the most in 
cooking. 

The first and most important point 
to be considered in preparing eggs 
for the table is to ascertain whether 
they are perfectly fresh: The fresh- 



er the egg the better. The egg which 
appears moldy or in the least bit 
ancient should be rejected Never, 
under any circumstances, put a taint- 
ed egg in any dish, under the impres- 
sion that other ingredients will hide 
the flavor. Never put such an egg 
in a cake. The presence of one egg 
that is not fresh will ruin an entire 
dish. As a matter of health, above 
all other considerations, such eggs 
should be rejected. 

The old Creole darkies, in common 
with many other people, have a way 
Of finding out whether an egg Is 
fresh by inclosing it in the hollow 
of the hand and looking through it 
with one eye, while shutting the 
other. They aver that if you can 
distinctly trace the yolk in one solid 
mass, and if the white around it 
looks clear, the egg is good. A more 
simple and scientific way, and by 
far a surer one, is to drop the eggs 
into cold water. The fresh ones will 
sink immediately to the bottom, the 
doubtful ones will swim around a 
little before reaching the bottom, 
and the bad ones will float. 

Eggs are among the most nutri- 
tious articles of food substances. 
They are rich in albumen, and their 
free use cannot be too highly reco- 
mended to the delicate, to hard brain 
workers, and to families generally. 

Boiled Xlgss. 

Oeufs a. la Coque. 

Have ready a saucepan of boiling 
water. Use only fresh eggs. Put 
them in the boiling water without 
cracking the shells. If you desire 



163 



soft-boiled eggs, or "Oeufs TVIollets," 
let the eggs boll from two minutes 
to two minutes and a half by the 
clock, keeping the exact time, min- 
ute by minute. The whites will then 
be set. If you desire the yolk to be 
set also in the soft-boiled egg, let 
the eggs boil three minutes, but not 
a second longer. For hard-boiled 
eggs, five minutes is sufficient. Bear 
In mind always that the water must 
be boiling hard before you put the 
egg into it, and that the exact time 
for boiling must be followed by the 
clock or with the watch in hand. 

Poached Bggs. 

Oeufs Pochgs. 
Have the frying pan filled with 
boiling water. Add salt. Some add 
also a tablespoonful of vinegar, but 
this is a 'matter of taste. The eggs 
must be absolutely fresh. Break the 
eggs into a saucer, one by one, and 
gently slip off into the water, with- 
out breaking the yolk. Break anoth- 
er and another, until you have four 
in the pan, and allow the eggs to 
stand apart. Let them boil thus on 
the water, till the white forms a 
thin veil over the yolks. Then the 
eggs are done. Take them up gent- 
ly, neatly round off the ragged edges, 
sprinkle the top with a little black 
pepper, place on buttered toast, and 
serve immediately. 

Fried Ejggs. 

Oeufs Frits. 
6 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfals of Lard. 
The lard must be very. hot. Break 
the eggs gently into a saucer, one 
by one, and drop gently into the 
lard, without breaking the yolks. 
With the spoon take up a little of 
the hot lard and drop gently over the 
top of the egg, if you wish it to be 
quite done. Otherwise simply fry 
till the yolk is set. Slide out on a 
batter cake turner, and place in a 
dish. Sprinkle with salt and black 
pepper, and add. If you wish, a lit- 
tle parsley garnish, and serve very 
hot 

Ham and EsSB. 
Oeufs au Jambon. 

6 Slices of Ham, 6 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
The ham should always be soaked 
in hot water before frying. Cut 
slices of about half an inch in thick- 
ness, of sufficient size to lay an egg 
uppn them. Lay the ham in the hot 
frying pan, and let it fry until the 
fat becomes transparent. Then take 
the slices out and put them on a 
hot dish. Break the eggs, one by 
one, into a saucer, and slip them in- 
to the frying pan, and fry in the 
same lard in which you have fried 
the ham. "When the yolks are quite 
set, take them out, and lay one egg 
on each slice of ham. Garnish nice- 



ly with parsley, and serve hot. This 
is a great Creole breakfast dish. 

Scrambled Egga, 

Oeufs Brouilies. 

6 Fresh Eggs. A Tablespoonful of Batter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Break the eggs into a saucer, one 
by one, and then transfer to a bowl. 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Have the frying pan very hot. Put 
into it the butter, and add immedi- 
ately the eggs, and keep stirring 
around and around and across for 
about three or four minutes. Judging 
by the consistency of the egg, which 
must be like a thick mush as you 
take it from the fire. Keep stirring 
a few seconds longer after you have 
taken the pan off the fire, and put 
the eggs into a ,hot dish, and gar- 
nish with parsley and serve Immedi- 
ately with buttered toast or broiled 
ham. The beauty of the scrambled 
egg is that the whites and yolks 
are delicately blended. The practice 
of beating the yolks and whites thor- 
oughly together, as for an omelette, 
before scrambling the eggs is to be 
condemned as against the best ethics 
of Creole cookery. There is no com- 
parison in the taste of the scrambled 
egg cooked according to the above 
method, and the eggs in which the 
yolks and whites have been previous- 
ly beaten together. 

Elgga Scrambled In Ham. 
Oeufs Brouillgs au Jambon. 

fi :^ggs. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Finely Minced 
Boiled Ham. 
A Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Mince the ham very fine, and 
break the eggs, one by one, into a 
saucer, and add to the bowl In which 
you have minced the ham. Mix all 
together. Place a tablespoonful of 
butter in the frying pan, add the 
eggs and ham, stir briskly, and when 
it comes to the consistency of starch 
take off the fire, and serve hot on 
buttered toast. 

In the same manner eggs may be 
scrambled with minced truffles, mush- 
rooms, onions, celery or tomatoes. 
Bggs Scrambled With Preserves. 
Oeufs Brouillgs aux Confitures. 
6 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Fruit Marmalade. 
Eggs may also be scrambled with 
marmalade of apricots or prunes, in 
which case they are called "Oeufs 
Brouilies aux Confitures." Follow 
above recipe, using the marmalade 
instead of the ham. 

BSga Fondns. 

Oeufs Pondus au Fromage. 

6 Eggs. 

4 Heaping Teaspoonfuls of Gruyere Cheese, 

Grated. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Break the eggs into a saucepan. 



164 



add the butter, the grated cheese, a 
little salt and pepper. Place the 
saucepan on a hot fire, stir the mix- 
ture around and around till the edges 
begin to thicken, and when of the 
consistency of a thick starch take off 
the Are and serve immediately on 
buttered toast. 

Eggs Wltb Asparnsus Tips. 

Oeufs aux Pointes d'Asperges. 

6 Eggs. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Asparagus Tips. 
1 Xablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Xablespoonful of Milk. Salt and Pepper. 
Buttered Toaat. 
Boil the asparagus tips (see re- 
cipe), and put the eggs into a sauce- 
pan, with the butter, after season- 
ing well with salt and pepper, and 
mixing the milk. Stir a second, and 
throw in the asparagus, and proceed 
to scramble as in preceding recipe. 
Serve on buttered toast. 

Cauliflower may be prepared with 
eggs in the same way. 

Shirred Elggs. 
Oeufs sur le Plat. 

6 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Break the eggs into a thin dish, in 
■which they are to be served, having 
first buttered the bottom of the dish 
or pan. Sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper, pour over a little melted but- 
ter, place in a quick oven, and let 
them bake until the yolks are set. 
Serve in the dish in which they have 
been cooked. 

Eggs & la Foulette, 

Oeufs a, la"" Poulette. 

6 Eggs. ^4 Pint of Sauce a la Ponlette. 
Boil the eggs hard and slice. Pour 
over a Sauce k la Poulette (see re- 
cipe), and serve hot. 

Beauregard Kgga. 

Oeufs a. la Beauregard. 

6 Eggs. % Pint of Fresh Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the eggs for five minutes,' till 
hard. Then take out of the water 
and cool, take off the shells, and se- 
parate the whites from the yolks, 
rubbing the latter through a sieve, 
and chopping the former very fine. 
But do not mix them. Have the 
milk ready to boil, and rub the but- 
ter and cornstarch together, and add 
to the boiling milk. Then add the 
whites of the eggs, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Prepare previous to 
this some buttered toast, and cover 
it now with a layer of this white 
sauce, and then add a layer of the 
yolks of the eggs. Add another layer 



of the sauce, and another layer ot 
the yolks, and then the remainder 
of the sauce. Sprinkle the top with 
a little salt and pepper, and set in 
the oven and let it stand two min- 
utes, and serve hot. 

Plain Omelet. 

Omelette. 

i Fresh Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter, 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
If you wish to have the omelet 
very nice, break the whites and yolks 
separately, and beat the former till 
they come to a light froth, and the 
latter till they are quite light. Then 
beat the whites and yolks together. 
Season well. Melt the butter in a 
frying pan, letting it grow hot, but 
not by any means brown. Pour in 
the mixture of egg. Let , it stand 
about two minutes, shaking'occasion- 
ally to prevent it from sticking to 
the pan. Continue shaking over a 
quick fire until the eggs are set. Then 
roll the omelet, folding it in two or 
three rolls and making it long and 
narrow. Take a hot dish, turn the 
omelet into it, garnish with parsley, 
and serve hot immediately, or it will 
fall. It is always easier to make sev- 
eral small omelets and haVe them 
pretty and sightly, than to succeed 
perfectly in making a large one. 

Creole Omelet. 

Omelette a. la Creole. 
6 Fine, Eipe Tomatoes. 2 Onions. 6 Esjs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Minced Ham. 
% Clove of Garlic. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Scald and skin six fine, ripe toma- 
toes, and chop them fine. Chop two 
onions, and mince the garlic very 
fine, and add a large spoonful of 
bread crumbs. Fry them with a ta- 
blespoonful of butter in a saucepan 
till quite brown. Then add the toma- 
toes, and salt, pepper and Cayenne 
to taste, and let all stew for an hour, 
at least. Prepare the eggs as for 
Ham Omelet (see recipe), and when 
the tomatoes are quite done have 
ready a heated frying pan and a half 
tablespoonful of butter. Pour this 
into the pan. As they become set 
pour in the center the tomatoes, and 
fold the . omelet over, and cook for 
two minutes longer. Roll gently in- 
to a dish and serve hot. 

Ham Omelet. 

Omelette au Jambon. 



Vi Teaspoonful of Flour. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Milk. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Chopped Ham. 

Vi Grated Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Beat the yolks to a cream, and add 

the other ingredients. Rub all these 



165 



smoothly together, and then add the 
■whites of eggs, beaten to a froth. 
Beat all thoroughly together. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter in the fry- 
ing pan. When it melts add the om- 
elet. Let it sand, shaking occasion- 
ally to prevent from sticking to the 
pan, till the eggs are quite set. Then 
fold as in a plain omelet, turn into a 
hot dish, and serve. 

Kldne^r Omelet. 

[ Omeletts aux Rognons. 

3 Kidneys. 6 Eggs. 
1^ Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Cut the fat from the kidneys, wash 
well, and cut into small pieces. Mix 
these with the eggs, which you will 
have prepared as for a plain omelet, 
and proceed as in Ham Omelet. This 
is very nice served with Tomato 
Sauce. 

Mushroom Omelet. 

Omelette aux Champignons. 

6 Eggs. M, Cq:n of Mushrooms. 
V^ Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Stew the mushrooms a few min- 
utes. Then chop them fine. Make a 
plain omelet. When it is ready to 
fold, place the mushrooms across the 
'center, fold twice over, let it cook 
two minutes longer, and serve hot. 

Onion Omelet. 

Omelette a. I'Ognon. 

4 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Large Onion Minced Very Fine. 

Beat the eggs as for a plain omelet. 
Then stew the onions in the butter 
till quite tender. Stir in the omelet 
once, and then let it Cook as in a 
plain omelet. Roll in folds, and serve 
hot. 

Omelet Sonflie. 

Omelette SoufflSe. 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. The Tolks of 4 Eggs. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon, or a Spoon. 

of Orange Flower Water or Kirsch. 

i Tablespoonfuls of Powdered White Sugar. 

Have a baking dish ready, greased 
with butter, and be sure that the 
oven is very hot. Beat the whites 



of the eggs to a stiff froth. Beat 
the yolks and the sugar to a cream, 
and add the Juice of half a lemon 
or a tablespoonful of orange flower 
water or Kirsch. Add the whites of 
the eggs. Stir carefully and heap all 
quickly into the baking dish and 
bake about fifteen minutes, till the 
top is a delicate brown. Serve Im- 
mediately, as it will fall if allowed 
to stand. This may be served as a 
sweet entremet or as a dessert. 

Parsley Omelet. 

Omelette au Persil. 

6 Eggs. VA Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Cut Parsley. 

Proceed In exactly the same man- 
ner as for Plain Omelet, only mix 
a tablespoonful of cut parsley m the 
omelet before putting In the frying 
pan. 

Truffle Omelet. 
Omelette aux TrufCes. 

e Eggs. 2 Truffles. 
1% Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

An omelet with truffles is made in 
the same manner as a Mushroom 
Omelet. 

Rum Omelet. 

Omelette au Rhum. 

3 Eggs. 1 Glass of Jamaica Rum. 

1 Teaspoonful of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Beat the yolks well; add the milk, 
and then add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all to- 
gether. The longer the eggs are 
■be4ten, the lighter will be the ome- 
let. Make a plain omelet. (See re- 
cipe ) Fold and turn quickly into a 
hot dish; place three ^fPf^"* i°^i 
sugar on top of the omelet, and bring 
to the table hot. As you place it on 
the table, pour the rum over the ome- 
let and around. Set the run. on fire 
with a match, and with a tablespoon 
dash the burning rum over the ome- 
fet till all the sugar has melted over 
uand all the rum has evaporated. 
When it ceases burning serve immed- 
iately. This Is served as a sweet en- 
tremet. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

L.OUISIAXA rice:. 

Le Riz de la Louisiane. 



The cultivation of rice began in 
Louisiana nearly a hundred years af- 
ter it commenced in Georgia and 
South Carolina, but Louisiana now 
produces more of this beautiful grain 
than both these States combined. It 
Is one of the great Louisiana staples, 
and New Orleans is the distributing 
point of the immense crop that year- 
ly make our immense rice fields of 
southwestern Louisiana the wonder 
and admiration of tourists. 

In no section of the world can rice 
be grown at so small a cost as in 
Louisiana. The cost of growing the 
grain in our matchless clime is small, 
and it requires but little capital to 
begin. 

As remarked in the beginning of 
this book, the consumption of rice 
has increased enormously of late, and 
It will continue to become more and 
more a popular article of fopd when 
the people of the great North and 
West learn how to cook it as well 
as the Creoles of Louisiana. 

The foUoing recipes, carefully se- 
lected from among many that are 
used in this old Creole city of New 
Orleans, will give an idea of how 
rice is prepared and made such a 
delightful article of food in our Cre- 
ole households: 

HoTT to Prepare Rice for Cooking. 

The whiteness of the rice depends 
In a great degree, upon its being 
washed thoroughly. Pick the rice 
clean, and wash it well in cold wa- 
ter before attempting to cook, rub- 
bing the rice w^ell with the hands, to 
get all the dust off. Pour off the first 
water, and add fresh; then pour oft 
this, and add fresh again. The rice 
will then be ready to cook. 

How to Boll Rice. 

When properly boiled, rice should 
be snowy white, perfectly dry and 
smooth; and every grain separate and 
distinct. To attain this end, put a 
quart of water on the fire, and let 
It boil well, with a teaspoonful of 
salt. Wash a cup of rice well In 
cold water. When the water com- 
mences to boil well add the rice. Stir 
occasionally, and gently with a wood- 
en spoon. The boiling water will' 
toss the grains of rice, and prevent 
them from clinging together. As 
soon as the grains commence to soft- 
en, do not, under any circumstances, 
stir or touch the rice again. Let it 
continue to boil rapidly for about 



twenty minutes, or until the grains 
begin to swell out, and it appears 
to thicken. This is easily ascer- 
atined by touching one of the grains 
with your finger. When it has 
reached this stage, take the cover 
off and pour off the water, and set 
the pot in the oven, so that the rice 
may swell up. Let it stand in tlie 
oven about ten ihinutes. Do not let' 
it brown, but simpljr dry — that is, 
let the water which ' rises dry out 
of the rice. Take it off, and let it 
stand a few minutes. Then pour out 
into a dish. Every grain will be 
white and beautiful, and stand apart 
because the drying in the oven will 
have evaporated the moisture, leav- 
ing the rice soft,, snowy white and 
perfectly dry. 

Boiled rice is delicious served with 
chicken, turkey, crab or shrimp or ! 
okra gumbo, as also with many vege- 
tables, all daubes, and with gravies 
of all kinds. It is the standing dish 
on every Creole table. 

Things to Remember In Boiling Rice. 

Never set the rice to cook in cold 
water, or you w^ill have a thick, mushy 
dish that is most unpleasant to the 
sight, and equally so to the taste. 

Always use boiling water. Boll 
rapidly from the time that you cover 
the pot until you take it off, for this 
allows each grain to be tossed away 
from the other constantly, and also 
allows it to swell to three times its 
normal size. The constant motion of 
the water prevents the grains from 
sticking together. 

Do not stir from the moment it 
begins to boil, for it will be no- 
ticed that when first the rice is put 
into the water it will cease boiling 
till the rice is heated. Stir occa- 
sionally during this period, to keep 
it from sinking to the bottom and 
burning, but do not touch it with i. 
spoon or fork or anything, once it 
has commenced boiling. Follow im- 
plicitly the directions about settlngr 
in the oven and allowing the rice to 
"sweat," as the old Creoles say. Tou 
will then have a dish that is not only 
very beautiful and tempting to the 
sight, but most delectable to the 
taste. 

Creole Jambalaya. 
Jambalaya a. la CrSole. 

Jambalaya Is a Spanish-Creole 
dish, which Is a great favorite in 



167 



New Orleans, and is made according 
to the following recipe: 

One and a Half Cups of Blc«. 

1 Pound of FreBh Pork. 1 Slice of Ham. 
1 Dozen Fine Chaurlce (Pork Sausage.) 

2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 
2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Bay Leaves. 2 Cloves Ground Very Fine. 

3 Quarts of Beef Broth or Hot Water 

(Broth Preferred.) 
% Spoonful of Chili Pepper. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Cut the pork very fine, lean and 
fat, into pieces of about half an inch 
square. Chop the onions very fine, 
and mince the garlic and fine herbs. 
Grind the cloves. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter into the saucepan, and 
add the onions and pork, and let them 
brown slowly. Stir frequently, and 
let them continue browning slightly. 
When slightly brown, add the ham, 
chopped very fine, and the cloves of 
garlic. Then add the minced herbs, 
thyme, bay leaf and parsley and 
cloves. Let all thrs brown for five 
minutes longer, and add a doz- 
en fine Chaurice, cut apart, and 
let all cook five minutes long- 
er. Then add the three quarts 
of water or broth, always us.- 
ing in preference the broth. Let it 
a,ll cook for ten minutes, and when 
it comes to a boil add the rice, which 
has been carefully washed. Then add 
to this a half teaspoonful of Chili 
pepper, and salt and Cayenne to taste. 
The Creoles season highly with Ca- 
yenne. Let all boil for a half hour 
longer, or until the rice is firm, and 
serve hot. Stir often, to mix all 
well. Ton will then have a real Cre- 
ole Jambalaya. Some use the brisket 
of veal instead of the pork, but there 
is no comparison in the flavor, the 
pprk being so superior. But, again, 
this is a matter of taste. 

Crab JambalaTa. 

Jambalaya aux Crabes. 

1 Dozen Fine, Large Cral)s. 
1% Cups of Eice. 3 Quarts of Broth. 
3 Tomatoes. 2 Onions. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 TaWespoonful of Flour. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 
2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 
% Teaspoonful of Chili Pepper. 
Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the crabs according to recipe. 
(See Boiled Crabs.) Then cut in 
pieces, cutting the bodies into quar- 
ters. Proceed in exactly the same 
manner as in making Shrimp Jamba- 
laya. 

Jambalaya an Congrl 
Jambalaya au Congri. 

1 Cop of Rice. 
1 Pint of Cowpeas. 
1 Large Onion. 
M Pound of Salt Meat. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 
Chop the small meat, after wash- 
ing, into dice, and mince the ham. 



Boil the cowpeas and the salt meat 
and ham together. Add the onion, 
minced very fine. Boil tl^e rice ac- 
cording to recipe for boiled rice, (see 
recipe.) CIjop the meat well. After 
the peas and the rice are cooked, 
pour the rice into the pot of peas, 
which must not be dry, but very 
moist. Mix well. Let all simmer for 
five minutes, and then serve hot. 
On Fridays and fast days the Creoles 
boil the peas in water adding a ta- 
blespoonful of butter, but no meat. 
It is again buttered according to in- 
dividual taste at table. The jamba- 
laya, however, is much nicer when 
made with the meat. 

Shrimp Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya aux Chevrettes. 

1^ Cups of Rice. 3 Tomatoes. 

80 Lake Shrimp. 
2 Onions. Cayenne to Taste. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flour. 
^ Teaspoonful of Chill Pepper. 
^ Salt. Pepper. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 
2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 
Chop two onions very fine, and put 
them in a saucepan to brown with a 
tablespoonful of butter. After a few 
minutes add. a tablespoonful of flour 
and stir well. Then add chopped 
thyme, bay leaf and parsley, 
and two cloves of garlic, minced very 
fine. Let all of this fry five minutes 
longer, and be careful not to let it 
burn or brown too much. Add a half 
teaspoonful of Chili pepper, and three 
large tomatoes, chopped fine, and also 
add the juice. Let all brown or sim- 
mer for ten minutes longer. When 
cooked, add three quarts of broth or 
water, or, if on Friday, and you do 
not eat meat, add oyster water or 
■plain water (the former preferred) 
which has been Seated to the boiling 
point. Let all boil "well, and then 
add the lake shrimp, which you will 
^Ireay have boiled according to re- 
cipe. (See recipe for Boiled shrimp.) 
Let the mixture boil again for five 
minutes, and add one cup and a half 
of rice, or half a pound, which has 
been well washed. Mix all well, and 
let boil for a half or three- quarters 
of an hour longer, stirring every once 
in a while, so as to mix all together. 
Serve hot. 

A French Plloii, 
Pilou Frangais. 
2 Chickens. % Cup of Rice. 

2 Tablespoonfnls of Butter. 
The Tolks of 2 Eggs. Bread Crumbs. 
Boil the fowls according to recipe. 
(See recipe Boiled (ihicken.) When 
done, take out about a pint of the 
liquor in which it was boiled, and 
put the rice, which you will have 
washed well, into the remaining boil- 
ing broth. Let it cook well for twen- 
ty minutes, and then add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter to the rice. But- 
ter the bottom of a dish, and put 



W8 



upon it one-half of the rice, spread- 
ing out nicely. Lay upon it the chick- 
ens, which have been disjointed and 
buttered. Add the remaining chick- 
en broth, pouring over the chicken. 
Then cover the fowls with the other 
half of the rice. Make the top per- 
fectly smooth. Spread over it the 
yolks of two eggs, which have been 
well beaten. Sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, and dot with little bits of 
butter here and there. Set in the 
oven, let it brown, and serve hot. 

Chicken With Rice. 

Poulet au Riz. 

1 Young Chicken. % Cup of Rice. 

This is a most delightful Creole 
way of preparing chicken and rice. 
It is highly recommended. Prepare 
and cook the chicTcen as in Poulet au 
Ri7, only do not cut up the chicken, 
but stew whole. When three-fourths 
done, add the rice, and in serving 
place the chicken in the center of the 
dish and heap the rice around. Toung 
chickens are best for this dish. An 
old chicken may be cut up and cooked 
till tender, as in Poulet au Riz, (See 
recipe Poulet au Riz, under chapter 
on Meat Soups.) 

Filaffl of Chicken. 

Pilaff de Volaille. 

1 Chicken About Four Pounds. 

a Cup of Rice. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and P6pper to Taste. 

Clean and cut the chicken as you 
would for a frioassfi. Put in a stew- 
pan and cover well with water. Add 
salt and pepper again to taste, hav- 
ing, of course, previously rubbed the 
fowl with salt and pepper. Let the 
chicken simmer gently for about an 
hour. Then take a half cup of rice 
and wash it thoroughly. Add it to 
the chicken. Salt again to taste. 
Cover and let all simmer for about 
twenty minutes longer. Then make 
a Tomato Sauce (see recipe). Dish 
the chicken and rice together, setting 
the chicken in the center of the dish 
and the rice around for a border, 
serve hot. This dish can be nicely 
made from the remains of cold chick- 
en or mutton. 

HoTT to Make a Rice Border. 

Bordure de Riz. 

1 Cup of Rice. 1 Quart of Boiling Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. Salt to Taste. 

Boil the rice according to recipe 
given above, using one cup to one 
quart of boiling water. Boil rapidly 
for fifteen minutes. Pour off any wa- 
ter that remains on top. Set in the 
oven to dry for about ten minutes, 
then drain. Season with salt and 
pepper, and press into a well-but- 
tered border mold. Put It in the 



oven and let it bake ten minutes. 
Take out. Place a dish on the mold. 
Turn it upside down, and remove the 
mold. The hollow space in the oen- 
ten can be filled with a White or 
Brown Fricassfie of Chicken or Curry 
of Crawfish. 

Curry of Crawfish. 

ificrevisses au Kari. 
1 Cup of Rice. 3 Dozen CrawSsh. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 1 Oloye of Garlic. 
2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Sprigs of Farsler. 

1 Bay Leaf. Juice of Half a Lemon. 
1 Tablespoonful of Curry Powder. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Quart of Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. A Dash of Cayenne. 
Boil the crawfish according to the 
recipe given. (See Boiled Crawfish.) 
Clean and pick the crawfish the same 
as for a fricassfee. Put two ounces 
of butter in the frying pan. Cut one 
onion in slices, add it to the but- 
ter, letting it brown nicely. Then 
add the well-seasoned crawfish, and 
fry them to a golden brown. Add 
one clove of garlic, finely minced, and 
minced thyme, parsley and bay leaf. 
Let this brown. After five minutes, 
add a quart of boiling water. Stir 
well. Season to taste with salt, pep- 
per and a dash of Cayenne. Simmer 
gently until the crawfish are very 
tender. When done, add the juice of 
half a lemon, and mix one even ta- 
blespoonful of Curry Powder and one 
of flour with a little water. Bring it 
to a smooth paste by rubbing well, 
and add it to the crawfish. Stir con- 
stantly, and let it boil five minutes 
longer; Serve with a border of boiled 
rice heaped around it. Curry of 
Chicken is made in the same man- 
ner, by adding the Curry Powder. 

Boiled Rice, Italian Style. 

Riz Bouilli 3. I'ltalietine. 

1 Cup of Rice. A Slice of Breakfast Bacon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Grated Parmesan. 
1 Finch Saffron. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Wash one cup of rice. Take boil- 
ing water, using about a quart. Add 
a slice of bacon and a tablespoonful 
of grated Parmesan cheese, and a 
pinch of saffron. Let it boil well for 
five minutes. Then add the rice grad- 
ually, continuing to cook according 
to the rtecipe for boiled rice. When 
done, remove the bacon, dot the top 
with bits of butter, set in the stove 
to dry for ten minutes, and serve 
hot. 

CAIiAS. 
"Belle Cala!. Tout Chand!" 

Under this cry was sold by the 
ancient Creole negro women in the 
French Quarter of New Orleans a . 
delicious rice cake, which was eaten 
Vith the morning cup of Caf§ au 
Lait. The Cala woman was a daily 
figure in the streets till within the 



169 



last two or three years. She went 
her rounds In quaint bandana tignon, 
guinea blue dress, and white apron, 
and carried on her head a covered 
bowl, in which were the dainty and 
hot Galas. Her cry, "Belle Gala! 
Tout Ghaud!" would penetrate the 
morning air, and the olden Greole 
cooks would rush to the doors to 
get the first fresh, hot Galas to carry 
to their masters and mistresses with 
the early morning cup of coffee. The 
Gala women have almost all passed 
away, for, as remarked at the begin- 
ning of this book, there is a "new 
colored woman" in New Orleans, as 
elsewhere in the south, and she dis- 
dains all the pretty olden industries 
and occupations which were a con- 
stant and genteel source of revenue 
to the old "negro mothers and grand- 
mothers. Only two or three of the 
ancient Gala women remain. The 
cries of "Belle Gala! Tout Ghaud!" 
are now few and far between. Once 
In a while, like some ghostly voice 
of the.past, one starts up in bed of an 
early morning as the weak old voice 
faintly penetrates your chamber. In 
a second more it is lost in the dis- 
tance, and you turn over with a sigh 
for the good old times and the quaint 
customs of old Greole days, which 
gave such a beautiful and unique 
tinge to the life of the ancient quar- 
ter. 

But the custom of making Galas 
still remains. In many an ancient 
home the good housewife tells her 
daughters just how "Tante Zizi" made 
the Galas in her day, and so are pre- 
served these ancient traditional re- 

From one of the last of the olden 
Gala \7omen, one who has walked the 
streets of the French quarter for 
fifty years and more, the Picayune 
has gotten the following established 
Creole recipe: 

% Cnp of Rice. 3 Cups Water (boiling). 

3 Eggs. % Cup of Sugar. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

% Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 

Powdered "White Sugar. Boiling Lard. 

Put three cups of water in a 
saucepan and let it boil hard. Wash 
half a cup of rice thoroughly, and 
drain and put in the boiling water. 
Let it boil till very soft and mushy. 
Take it out and set it to cool. When 
cold, mash well and mix with the 
yeast, which you will have dis- 
solved In a half cup of hot wa- 
ter. Set the rice to rise over- 
night. In the morning beat 
three eggs thoroughly, and add 
to the rice, mixing and beating well. 
Add a half cup of sugar and three 
tablespoonfuls of flour, to make the 
rice adhere. Mix well and beat thor- 
oughly, bringing it to a thick bat- 
ter. Set to rise for fifteen minutes 
longer. Then add about a half tea- 



spoonful of grated nutmeg, and mix 
well. Have ready a' frying pan, in 
which there is sufficient quantity of 
lard boiling for the rice cakes to 
swim in it. Test by dropping in a 
sma,ll piece of bread. If it bepomes 
a golden brown, the lard is ready, 
but if it burns or browns instantly 
it is too hot. The golden brown col- 
oi; is the true test. Take a large 
deep spoon, and drop a spoonful at a 
time of the preparation into the boil- 
ing lard, remembering always that 
the cake must not touch the bottom 
of the pan. Let fry to a nice brown. 
The old Gala women used to take the 
Galas piping hot, wrap them in a 
clean towel, basket or bowl, and rush 
through the streets with the welcome 
cry, "Belle Gala Tout Ghaud!" ring- 
ing on the morning air. But in fam- 
ilies the cook simply takes the Galas 
out of the frying pan and drains off 
the lard by laying in a colander or 
On heated pieces of brown paper. 
They are then placed in a hot dish, 
feind sprinkled over with powdered 
white sugar, and eaten hot with Gaffe 
au Lait. 

The above quantity will make six 
cakes., Increase in proportion. 

Galas may also be made of rice 
flour. In olden days the Gala wom- 
en used to pound the rice themselves 
in a mortar till they reduced it to a 
fine powder or flour. Then it was 
mixed and set to rise overnight. If 
the rice flour is used, one tablespoon- 
ful of wheat flour is sufficient to 
iDlnd. 

Oftsn in large Greole families, 
where rice is left over from the day 
before, the quantity is increased by 
adding: a cup of well-sifted self- 
raising flour. But these cakes, though 
very nice and palatable, are not the 
true "Galas," which are made en- 
tirely of rice, with only a little flour 
to bind, as directed above. 

Rice Waffles. 

Galettes de Riz. 

1% Cups of Softly Boiled Bice. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 1 Pint of Scalded Milk. 

3 Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Wheat Flour. | 

The rice must be cold and well 
mashed. Melt the two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into the milk, which 
has been allowed to cool. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and the whites se- 
perately, making the latter come to 
a stiff froth. Mix the rice and milk. 
Beat thoroughly, and then add a half 
teaspoonful of salt and one of baking 
powder, and the flour. Put the yolks 
into the batter, flrst blending well, 
and lastly add the whites, and beat 
well again. The waffie iron should 
be very hot, and well greased in 
every part. Always have a little 
brush with which to grease the waffla 



170 



Irons. Pour the batter into a pitch- 
er, so that you may more easily fill 
the irons. Open the irons, pour the 
batter from the pitcher and flU the 
iron quickly. Then close quickly and 
set on the fire. As soon as the edges 
are set, turn the iron and bake on 
the other side. Two minutes should 
be all the time required to bake a 
waffle nicely. The waffle must be 
baked evenly. Always select the 
simple waffle baker with four com- 
partments in preference to the more 
elaborate designs. Better results 
will be achieved. When the waffles 
are baked, remove them carefully, 
place on a hot dish, piling them in 
double ro"ws, and butter them gene- 
rously. Rice waffles are generally 
served with ground cinnamon and 
sugar mixed and sprinkled over. 
But this is a matter of taste. They 
are very delicious when served with 
butter and Louisiana Syrup or Mo- 
lasses. 



Rice Griddle Cakes. 

Gateaux de Riz. 

1 Pint of Milli. 1V5 Cups of Cold Boiled Rice. 

1^ Cupa of Flour. 2 Eggs. 

2 Heaping Teaspoonfuls of Baking PoTvder. 

1 Large Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and set it to cool. 
Press the rice through a sieve, and 
then add the well-beaten yolks of 
two eggs, then the salt, yeast pow- 
der and flour, blended, and beat well. 
Then add the milk, blending~thor- 
oughly, and finally the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix 
thoroughly and bake on a hot grid- 
dle. 



Rice Bread. 

Pain de Riz, 

1 Cup of Cold Boiled Rice. 

2 Cups of White Indian Meal. 3 Eggs. 

1 Tablpspoonful of Melted Butter. 

2 Heaping Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

IM Pints Milk. 1 Teaspoonful Salt. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the 
eggs together until very light, and 
then pour in the milk, mixing grad- 
ually. Add the well-prepared meal, 
into which you will have mixed the 
salt and baking powder. Beat well. 
Then add the melted butter and the 
rice, which you will have pressed 
through a sieve. Mix all thoroughly 
and beat till very light. Then grease 
the bottom of a shallow pan and 
turn the mixture in and bake half 
an hour in a hot oven. Serve hot, 
buttering the slices freely. This is 
a delicious breakfast bread, and, as 
in any of the above recipes, cold 
rice left over may be utilized in its 
making. 



Rice Croquettes With Parsley, 

Croquettes de Riz au Persil. 

1 Cup of Rice. 1 Quart of Milt. 

1 TaBlespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Wash the rice well, and put it on 
to boil in a farina boiler with the 
milk, or use cold boiled rice, and set 
it to boil with the milk, after press- 
ing through a sieve. If the rice has 
not been cooked, let it boil about an 
hour. If it has already been cooked, 
twenty minutes will suffice. When 
very thick take from the fire and 
beat until very smooth, mashing all 
the grains. Then add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs, and cook for about 
eight or ten minutes longer. Add the 
parsley and seasoning, using the 
white pepper. Take from the Are 
and mix well, and turn out on a plate, 
and let it cool. When cool, form it 
into pretty cylinders of about three 
inches in length and one and a half 
in thickness. Roll these in a beaten 
egg, to bind, and then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. Drain , 
and serve with any daube, or with 
any meat cooked with gravy. 

Rice Croanettes With Fruits. 

Croquettes de Riz aux Fruits, i 

% Cup of Rice. 1 Pint of Milk. 

2 Large Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 
Vi Cup of Currants. Vi Cup of Raisins. 

% Cup of Citron. 
% Teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

The Yolks of Two Eggs. 
Put the milk Into a farina boiler, 
and add the dice which you will have 
washed well. Boil until very thick. 
Seed the raisins and prepare the 
other fruits. Beat the eggs well 
and add them to the rice, and then 
stir in the sugar. Beat until very 
smooth. Then take from the fire, 
and add the essence of vanilla, the 
raisins and currants, and the citron. 
Turn out all into a dish to cool. 
Then form Into pretty pyramids, and 
dip first in a well-beaten egg, and 
then in bread crumbs. Fry in boil- 
ing lard. Drain well. When about 
to serve, put a small piece of Cur- 
rant Jelly on the top of each cro- 
quette. Then dust the whole with 
powdered sugar, and serve with 
Sauce a. la Vanille. (Vanilla Sauce, 
see recipe.) 

Rice Flonr Croquettes. 
Croquettes de Farine de Eiz. 

1 Quart Milk. % Split Vanilla Stick. 
6 Ounces of Ground Rice. H Pound of Sugar. 

2 Ounces Butter. Yolks of 8 Eggs. 

1 Ounce of Pineapple. 2 Ounces of ApricotB. 

3 Ounces of Cherries. 

1 Ounce of Orange Peel. A Cream Sauce. 

Boil a quart of milk, and add to It 

while boiling the split vanilla stick. 



171 



Take out the vanilla after you 
have cut all the fruit and orange 
peel into small dice, throwing away 
the seeds. Drop the ground rice like 
a shower of rain into the boiling 
milk, stirring it continuously with a 
whisk of the hand. When it begins 
to soften, set it back, and let it cook 
for fifteen minutes longer. Then mix 
in the cut fruits, and add the butter, 
which you will have melted. Add 
the eggs, which have been beaten 
very light in the sugar. Mix thor- 
oughly, and add the orange peel; 
cut into quarter dice.. When the mix- 
ture is very light, ~B«t it to cool, 
by spreading it out on a baking 
sheet, covered with white paper. 
When cold, divide it into small balls, 
roll these in powdered Macaroons 
(see recipe Macaroons), dip in beaten 
egg, and then roll in white bread 
crumbs. Fry in boiling lard. Drain 
in a heated colander or on a piece 
of brown pa|)er. Then dress the cro- 
quettes nicely on a dish, sprinkle 
with vanilla sugar, and serve each 
separately, with a Cream Sauce. (See 
recipe.) This is a delicious dish. 

Rice Cufstard. 

Riz au Lait. 

1 Cup Kiee. 3-4 Cup Sugar. % Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

The Peel of a Quarter of an Orange, Cut In 

Dice. 

Boil the rice very soft, and then 
add the milk, and let it come to a 
good boil. Add the orange peel, cut 
in quarter dice. Beat the eggs and 
sugar well together till very light, 
and add to the boiling custard. Cook 
for one minute longer. Then take 
from the fire, and add the vanilla 
and one-quarter of the grated nut- 
meg. Place all in a dish to cool. 
Sprinkle the top with grated nut- 
meg, and serve cold. This is a fa- 
mous Creole dish. 

If you wish to have a baked cus- 
tard, Place the custard in a pan or in 
cups. Set in the oven to brown, and 
serve hot, with a Cream Sauce. The 
above amount will fill about eight 
cups. 

Rice Dumplings. 
Echaud^s de Riz. 

It was the old Creole negro cooks 
who first evolved that famous Creole 
dessert, Rice Dumplings. They are 
made as follows: * 

% Cup of riour. 3 Cups of Ground Rice. 
8 Apples, Tart and Not Overripe. 

2 Quarts of Milk. Sugar and Cinnamon. 

Vi of the Peel of an Orange. 
% of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Pare the apples and take out the 
cores, leaving the apples whole. 
Take the ground cinnamon and sugar, 
and mix well, and fill the cores with 
this mixture. In the meantime boil 



the rice in milk till it comes to the 
consistency of flour, having added the 
grated peel of an orange and a half 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and a 
half cup of fiour. Take off the fire, 
and lot it cool. Then cover each ap- 
ple all over with a very thick coat- 
ing of the rice, and tie each dump- 
ling in a cloth very tightly, and put 
them in a pot of cold water. Bring 
the water to a quick boil, and boil 
the apples for three-quarters of an 
hour. When done, untie the cloth 
and place the dumplings carefully on 
a large dish. Sprinkle each with a 
little grated nutmeg, put on top of 
each a dot of butter, set in the oven 
for five or ten minutes to brown, and 
serve with a Hard or Cream Sauce. 
They are most delicious with a Hard 
Sauce. They may be served without 
setting in the oven, immediately af- 
ter they have been taken from the 
water, or they may be served cold. 
Again, in large families, the apples 
may be cut in halves or quarters, 
and boiled in the same manner, cov- 
ering with the coating of rice, as in 
the following recipe: 

Apples and Rice. 

Riz a. la Conde. 

Take three large, fine apples, and 
cut in halves. Pare and core. Then 
bake in the oven until quite done and 
juicy. Make a Rice Pudding (see re- 
cipe), using only one cup of rice and 
other ingredients in proportion. When 
the apples are cold, set In a dish, 
placing each apple over a small bed 
of Rice Pudding. Place the same 
quantity on top of the apple, so that 
it will be inclosed between the rice 
as in a ball. Serve in saucers, and 
pour over each riced apple two ta- 
blespoonfuls of Brandy or Cream 
Sauce. (See Sauces for Puddings, 
etc.) 

Rice Meringue. 
Meringue de Riz. 

1 Cup Rice. 6 Creole Eggs. 2 Cups Sugar. 

1 Pint Milk. 2 Tablespoontuls Butter. 
The Grated Rind of a Lemon. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, and boil 
it in a quart of boiling water. Wheh 
very soft, drain the rice of all wa- 
ter by pressing through a colander, 
and add it to the milk. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and the sugar to- 
gether till very light .and add the 
butter. Then add the juice and the 
grated rind of a lemon, and mix 
thoroughly. Place the whole mixture 
into a baking dish, and bake for half 
an hour in _a quick oven. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, and add grad- 
ually six tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar (white), beating them well all 
the time. Continue beating till the 
whites are stiff enough to stand 
alone. Pour this over the top of the 
rice, and set it back In the oven a 



172 



few minutes to brown. It may be 
served either hot or cold. 

Rice Souffle, 

SoufflS de Riz. 

Vi Pound of Rice Flour. H Pound of Sugar. 

^ Pint Cream. 6 Fresh Creole Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. Vi Teaspoontul Salt. 

The Grated Peel of Half an Orange. 
Boil the rice well, according to re- 
cipe, and when very soft add the half 
pint of cream, and let it come to a 
boil. Beat the butter and sugar and 
the yolks of the eggs together until 
very light. Then add the rice, which 
has been boiled in the milk. Set on 
the fire, and add the grated peel of 
a half orange, and stir continually 
till it thickens. Add the salt. Stir 
well. Then take from the Are, and 
add the vanilla. Have the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff thick froth. 
Pour this over the rice. Set in the 
oven a few minutes to brown, and 
serve immediately while very hot, or 
It will fall. 

Snowballs, 
Riz a la Ngige. 
1 Cup Kice. 1 Pint Milk. Vi Cup White Sugar. 
The Whites of Six Eggs. 
A Cream Sauce. 
Boil the rice with the milk, and 
add the whites of three eggs, well 
beaten with the sugar. Stir well, 
and flavor with the Juice of one lem- 
on. The mixture should be white as 
snow. Take from the fire as it thick- 
ens well, and set in a dish to cool. 
Form the rice into small balls of 
about two and a half Inches square 
(little "boulettes." as the Creoles 
call them.) Have the rest of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered su- 
gar. Cover the tops of the balls 
with the mixture and place in the 
stove to heat. Let the balls re- 
maip about four minutes, without 
browning. Take out, and serve with 
a Cream Sauce (see recipe Sauces for 
Puddings,) or just as they are. 

Rice Crenm Pudding, 

Pouding de Riz a. la CrSme. 

1 Cup of Boiled Rice. 3-4 Cup of Sugar. 

1 OuiiCe of Pineapple. 2 Ounces of Raisins. 

2 Ounces of Currants. 

1 Ounce of Grated Orange Peel. 

1 Quart of Milk. The Yolks of 6 Eggs.' 

% of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Boil the rice well, and then drain 
through a colander and set to boil 
with the milk. When it has cooked 
for twenty rrtinutes, add all the fruits, 
being careful to have the pineap- 
ple cut into dice, and the raisins 
seeded, and the currants picked, 
washed and dried. Then add the or- 
ange peel and grated nutmeg, and 
finally the eggs, which have been 
well beaten in the sugar till very 



light. Let all simmer for just one 
minute. Then take off the stove, 
place in a baking pan, and set to 
brown nicely in a auick oven for 
about twenty-five minutes. When 
well browned, have ready a me- 
ringue, which you will have made by 
beating the whites of two eggs to 
a froth (reserve the whites of two 
eggs), and add to this two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. 
Spread all this over the pudding. 
Let it brown slightly in a hot oven, 
or the meringue will fall. Serve 
either hot or very cold. The pudding 
may be made without the addition of 
the pineapple. 

Frozen Rice Custard, 

CrSme de Riz GlacSe. 

1 Cupful of Rice. 1 Quart of Milk. 
A Pint of Cream. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 6 Oranges. 

Prepare exactly as above, as far 
as boiled, but omit the fruits and use 
only the grated rind of an orange 
in making the pudding. When cold, 
add the juice of an orange and the 
cream, beaten or whipped to a froth. 
Four tablespoonfuls of wine or lemon 
juice may be substituted for the or- 
ange juice, according to taste. Then 
freeze, the same as you would toe 
cream, and serve with an Orange 
Sauce, prepared as follows: 

Boil together for ten minutes one 
cupful of water, one-half cup of su- 
gar, the grated yellow rind or zest 
of two oranges. Add to this the 
strained juice of four oranges. Cool 
and set to freeze. Boil three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar with three of wa- 
ter for two minutes. Beat this into 
the white of one egg, which has al- 
ready been brought to a stiff froth. 
Stir this meringue into the frozen 
mixture, and the sauce will be ready 
to serve with the pudding or custard. 

Rice With Compote of Oranges. 

Riz k la Compote d'Oranges. 

3-4 Cup Rice. 1^ Pints Milk. 1 Quart Cream, 

1% Cups Sugar. 
Yolks of 8 Eggs. 1 Tatlespoonful of Vanilla, 

The Grated Peel of an Orange. 
12 Sweet Louisiana Oranges. 1 Pound Sugar. 
1 Gill Water. ^ of a Grated Nutmeg. 
Wash the rice clean, and boll ac- 
cording to recipe in about a pint and 
a quarter of water. In half an hour 
take off and drain of all water, and 
press through a sieve. Then add it 
to the milk, and let it boll slowly 
a half hour longer without burning. 
Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and 
add the drain to the rice or milk, 
and set the whipped cream to cool 
until it is needed. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs and the sugar until they 
are very light. Add them to the 
boiling rice, stirring constantly and 
well, and let It cook for two min- 



173 



utes, adding in the meantime the 
grated peel of the orange. Take the 
mixture from the fire. Then add the 
tablespoonful of vanilla, and the 
grated nutmeg. Mix well and set out 
to cool. Remove the- dasher from 
the ice cream freezer, and when the 
mixture has become very cool, turn 
It into the freezer and let it set 
packed in rock salt and ice for three 
hours. 

In the meantime take a dozen sweet 
Louisiana ora.nges, and peel and out 
them crosswise into halves. Take 
out the cores with the share point 
of a' penknife, and set them in a dish 
ready for use. Put a round of sugar 
to boil with one gill of water, and 
after ten minutes add the juice of 
half a lemon. Put a few pieces at a 
time of the oranges into this boiling 
liquid, and lay them out side by side 
in a flat dish. Pour over them the 
syrup that remains from the boiling, 
and set the dish in the ice box to 
cool. "When ready to serve, wipe 
thoroughly the outside of the can that 
contains the pudding, and all around 
the edges, so as to remove any 
traces of salt. ■ Wet a towel in boil- 
ing water and stand the can upon 
it. Open the can. Put a round dish 
on top, and then turn quickly upside 
down, and remove the can. If the 
pudding adheres, repeat the applca- 
tions of the hot towel at the bottom 
and around. Place the oranges on 
top and all around the pudding, 
and pour over them th« syrup, whion 
has become cool, but not frozen. Serve 
immediately. This is one of the most 
delicious, as well as one of the most 
typical of our Louisiana methods of 
serving rice as a, dessert. 

lieft-Over Rice, 

Enough has been said and written 
In these recipes to' give an idea of 
the possibilities of Louisiana rice 
under proper methods of culinary 
preparation. It enters into many difr 
ferent combinations in cooking, and 
among the poorer Creoles of large 
families it takes, in a great measure, 
the place of bread. A meal of boiled 
rice, with Grillades a, la Sauce, and 
Red Beans or White Beans, is very 
popular among the Creoles, especially 
those of limited means, all of these 
being good, nourishing, as well as 
economical, dishes, the rice not only 
saving the expenditure of money for 



bread, but making a most welcome 
and palatable substitute. The fam- 
ily that uses rice daily will note the 
economy that follows in the purchase 
of bread. 

Left-over rice may be utilized In 
almost any of the above dishes, but 
it is more generally used in the mak- 
ing of rice waffles or rice cakes for 
breakfast, Calas, etc. It is also fried 
or made- into rice fritters, as follows: 

I Fried Rice. 

Riz Frit. 

Take the left-over rice from the 
day before, and cut it into slices of 
proper thickness, and fry to a nice 
brown, turning it carefully, to avoid 
breaking the slices. This makes an 
excellent breakfast dish, with Gril- 
lades a, la Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Rice Fritters. 

Bei^nets de Riz. 

Take the left-over rice and mash 
very fine. If you have only a cup- 
ful, take three eggs, a half cup of 
flour, one teaspoonfil of yeast pow- 
der, and sugar to taste, and beat all 
into a light, thick batter. Cook by 
dropping a spoonful at a time into 
boiling, lard. This is a. sweet entre- 
met, as also an excellent breakfast 
dish. 

Parched Rice. 

Riz Grins. 

Rice may be parched in the same 
manner as popcorn. It is' a method 
cf cooking rice that came to New 
Orleans from the West Indies, and 
was brought into general use by the 
San Domingo refugees, who came to 
New Orleans in numbers after the 
great insurrection. When the culture 
of rice became general in the south- 
, western parishes of our State, these 
old settlers began to give rice-parch- 
ing parties, and they became very 
fashionable. The Creole children and 
the belles and beaux of eighty years 
ago enjoyed parching rice just as 
much as northern children, youths 
and maidens enjoy roasting chest- 
nuts or parching corn. Rice Is 
parched in the same manner as the 
Creoles parch popcorn. The parched 
grain of rice becomes a beautiful 
open ball, which is eaten with salt 
or sugar, and is very delicious. 



CHAPTER XX.V. 
CERBALS. 



Under the heading of Cereals are 
classed Wheat, Rye. Barley. Oats, 
Corn, Maize or Indian Corn. Buck- 
wheat and Rice. Rice being one of 
our great Louisiana staples, and the 
proper methods of preparing it so 
little known, has been separately 
treated in the preceding chapter. The! 
other Cereals are in general use in 
every section of our country, and will 
require less ampliflcation. 

WHEAT. 

Du Froment. 

On account of its universal con- 
sumption and great nutritive qual- 
ities, "Wheat is considered the prin- 
cipal cereal. In the form of bread. 
It has long been distinguished as the 
"Staff of Life." 

The structure of the grain, like 
that of other cereals, consists of a 
gritty, woody center covering, which 
is indigestible, and which is gotten 
rid of. after the grain has been 
ground, by "sifting." In the whole 
wheat grain is found a perfect food, 
for it contains all that is necessary to 
support life — starch, gluten, sugar, 
nitrogenous and carbonaceous mat- 
ter, Tvater, salts, potash, soda, lime, 
phosphoric acid, magnesia, etc. 

In what is called "whole meal," 
the bran and pollards derived from 
the outer covering are retained. 
From this wheat is made "Brown 
Bread," and though this kind of bread 
contains far more nitrogenous mat- 
ter than white bread, it is not in gen- 
eral use. on account of its indigesti- 
bility. It should never be eaten by 
persons of weak digestion. 

Prom wheat are derived not only 
flour in all its various degrees of 
refinement, but several delightful and 
nutritious breakfast cereals, such as 
"Cracked Wheat," which is generally 
and very wisely used among the 
Creoles as an article of food. "Far- 
ina," an excellent preparation, which 
is delicate and acceptable to the 
most fastidious stomach, and, being 
rich In nitrogenous matter, is not 
only a most excellent food for adults, 
but is considered far superior in nu- 
tritive value to arrowroot or corn- 
starch for children. Again, we have 
"Wheatena." and "Cerealine." both 
muscle and brain feeding prepara- 
tions of Wheat. 

Wheat contains a gluten, which is 
a gray, elastic, tough suBstance. This 
gluten is especially abundant In 
wheat grown In warm climates. From 



this gluten paste Macaroni and Ver- 
micelli are made. 

Criicked Wheat. 

Froment Crevfe. 

1 Cup of Cracked Wlieat. 

1 Quart of Water. 

1 leaspoonful of Salt. 

Under the name of "Cracked 
Wheat" there is sold in the markets 
whole wheat grains which are 
cooked by boiling in a double boiler 
until the entire envelope of the grain 
bursts open. It will reauire four 
hours of good boiling, therefore. It is 
best to soak the grain over night in 
a quart of cold water. In the morn- 
ing set the kettle containing the 
grain in another kettle of cold wa- 
ter, add the salt, and let It gradually 
heat and boil for at least an hour and 
a half. It should be thoroughly 
cooked. Serve with sugar and cream 
for breakfast. 

Wheatena may be cooked without 
soaking, as also Cerealine. If a sin- 
gle boiler is used, be very careful to 
stir often, to prevent burning. 

FARIXA. 

Fficule. 

% Cup of Farina. 
1 Quart of Water or Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Add the salt to the milk or water, 
and then sift in slowly sufficient Fa- 
rina to make a thick gruel. Set in a 
double boiler, and let it cook for 
about a half hour, stirring frequently 
while it boils. 

Farina Gniel. 

Gruau de F6cule. 

1 Cup of Boiling Water. 
1 Cup of Fresh Milk., 
1 Large tablespoonful of Farina. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of White Sugar. 
In preparing this splendid food for 
infants, take a cup of boiling water, 
one cup of milk, and a pinch of salt. 
Slightly salt the water. Set one 
boiler within another, the latter boil- 
er being filled with boiling water. 
Stir the Farina into the cup of 
boiling water, and let it boil, stirring 
constantly, till it thickens. Then 
add the milk, stirring It gradually, 
and let it boil about fifteen minutes 
longer. Sweeten, and when it i^ 
cool give to the child. Enough may 
be made to last all day. Warm, 
when It is needed, with a little boll- 



175 



RYE, 

Seigle. 

Bye Meal, once such a common ar- 
ticle of food in New Orleans, is still 
extensively used by the German pop- 
ulation, both in making Rye Bread 
and in making Rye Mush. As re- 
gards nutritive quality, Rye ranks 
slightly less than flour. 

Rye Musli. 

Bouillie de Seigle. 

3-4 Cup of Rj-e Meal. 
1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

Sift the meal into the boiling wa- 
ter, and stir constantly while doing 
so. Add the salt, and contimie stir- 
ring till the mixture begins to boil. 
Then cover and let it cook slowly for 
at least an hour and a quarter. Serve 
hot for breakfast, with sugar and 
cream. 

OATS. 
Avoir e. 

From Oats, which are used so ex- 
tensively as food for beasts, is pro- 
duced Oatmeal, which heads the list 
of flesh-producing and strengthening 
grains, being far richer than flour in 
nitrogen and fat, and therefore more 
nutritious. With oatmeal porridge 
for breakfast, oatmeal cakes for din- 
ner, milk, potatoes and a few vege- 
tables, the hard-working laborer or 
brain worker need require little else 
for sustenance from year's end to 
year's end. The coarsely ground 
Scotch oatmeal is the most nutritious, 
though we have many refined prepay 
rations, such as "Nudavene." "Rolled 
Oats," etc., whi3h are very palatable 
to delicate stomachs. With good 
milk, oatmeal makes a most nutri- 
tious breakfast or supper for chil- 
dren or adults. It Is in far more 
general use in New Orleans than in 
former years. A gruel of oatmeal 
is about the healthiest article of 
food that any mother, whether rich 
or poor, can give to her grooving 
babies. Oatmeal is a heat-producing 
food. It is used extensively in spring, 
autumn and winter 'n our climate; 
in summer we have our own splendid 
Creole substitutes. Hominy and Grits. 

OATMEAIi. 

Gruau d'Avoine. 
1 Cup of Oatmeal. 
1 Quart of Boiling Water. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
It is best to soak the oatmeal, when 
the coarse Scotch Oats are used, over 
night. Then cook for a half hour in 
the morning, boiling constantly, and 
salt to taste. If the oatmeal is not 
soaked, it will require at least an 
hour to cook. It burns very easily, 
and, therefore, it is always best to 
set in a double boiler. Serve with 
cream. 



The more delicate preparations of 
oatmeal, such as "Nudavene," "Rolled 
Oats," etc.. require only fifteen or 
twenty minutes to cook, and need no 
soaking. Always put the prepara- 
tions in boiling water. 

Steamed Oatmeal. 

Gruau d'Avoine a. la Vapeur. 
1 Teacupful of Oatmeal. 
1 Quait of Boiling Water. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Add the oatmeal to the water, and 
then add the salt, and set the steam- 
ing vessel over a pot of cold water, 
and let it gradually heat, and then 
steam for an hour and a half. Keep 
closely covered. When done, serve 
with cream. - 

Oat Flaktia. 

Plocons d'Avoine. 
1 Teacupful of Oat Flakes. 
1 Quart of Boiling Water. 
■ ^ Teasponoful of Salt. 

This delicate preparation from oat- 
meal is prepared by putting the quart 
of water into a porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan, and letting it come to a boil. 
Add the salt, and when it is boiling- 
stir, in gradually the oat flakes. Keep 
stirring to prevent burning. Let the 
preparation boil for about fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and serve with su- 
gar and cream, or simply cream or 
milk. 

It might be emphasized here that 
ojjdinary coarse oatmeal that has 
not been soaked reauires from two 
to two and a half hours of steady 
cooking to render it palatable and 
digestible. Never be afraid of, cook- 
ing any cereal or preparations from 
cereals, except rice, too long, no mat- 
ter how the directions read. A halt 
hour or so longer cooking does not 
injure them, but, on the contrary, 
renders them easier of digestion. 

CORN. 

Du Mai's. 

Under this heading are included 
Corn proper and our own Indian 
Corn, or Maize. ,From these come 
such staple dishes as "Grits," "Big 
Kominy," "Little Hominy," "Lye 
Hominy," or "Samp." 

Corn contains far greater force- 
producing and fattening matter than 
Wheat. Scientists declare that corn- 
meal contains six times as mucli oil 
as wheat. Corn Bread is. therefore, 
an excellent winter diet, as also the 
delicate "Grits" and "Big and Small 
Hominy." "Samp," or "Lye Hom- 
iny," is used throughout the summer, 
as less heatening. Preparations of 
Corn are among the cheapest, if not 
the very cheapest articles of food and 
considering their high nutritive val- 
ue, are' especially recommended to' 
the families of the poor. But, wheth- 



er rich or poor, there are few Cre- 
ole families in New Orleans who sit 
to breakfast without a good dish of 
Grits or Hominy. 

GRITS. 
Du Gru. 
Under the heading of corn might 
properly be classed the white corn 
grits, without which no breakfast in 
Louisiana is considered complete. 
Grits are not only used for breakfast, 
but may appear on the table several 
times a day, the left-over grits from 
breakfast being utilized either In 
dainty cakes or entremets, or else 
warmed over and served with grav- 
ies. Grits is the ground dried corn. 
We have yellow grits, or grits from 
which the' outer yellow covering of 
the corn has not been removed, and 
white grits, the latter considered the 
daintier preparation. Prom these 
comes the "Small Hominy," or corn 
ground to sucerfineness. Grits are 
always boiled. Left-over may be 
fried or warmed up 3,gain, or beaten 
with eggs and milk and baked. This 
is a most delicious dish. 
. In ante bellum days, and up to 
about fifteen years ago, the "grits 
man" was as common a figure in the 
streets of the old French auarter as 
the "ring man," the "bottle man," 
or the "Gala woman." The "toot- 
toot," long drawn out of his great 
tin horn, nearly three feet in length, 
was as usual a cry as that of "Belle 
calas! Belle chaurice! Belle fromage!" 
for everything that was worth sell- 
ing was considered "belle," or "beau- 
tiful," in New Orleans. The "grits 
man" went his rounds in a covered 
wagonette, labeled "Grits," and when 
his great horn was heard the house- 
keepers rushed to the doors to make 
bargains in the dainty breakfast ce- 
real. But, like the "Gala woman," 
the "Grits man" is fast becoming a 
memory of other days. , 

Boiled Grits. 

Du Gru Bouilli. 
2 Cups of Grita. 
2 Quarts of Water. 2 Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 
"Wash the grits in fresh cold wa- 
ter, and throw oft the refuse. Wash 
again and drain. Into two quarts of 
cold water put the grits. Add the 
salt, and stir frequently while they 
are coming to the boiling point> 
Then set back on the stove and let 
them cook slowly for about an hour. 
It must be of the consistency of a 
very thick starch, or drier, if pre- 
ferred. For invalids it may be cooked 
like a cornmeal mush. Serve hot. 
with any meat, with gravy, or serve 
with milk, as oatmeal, as a prelimi- 
nary to breakfast, or, again, simply 
eat with butter. In any manner In 
which they are served they are al- 
ways relishable and tialatahlB Tf 



half milk, instead of water, is added 
in cooking, the dish is all the more 
delicious. 

Baked Grits, 

Du Gru aux Oeufs. 

1 Cup of Grits. 

% Quart of Water. % Quart of Milk. 

2 Eggs. Salt to Taste. 

Boil the grits in the water and 
milk, mixed. Season, and when quite 
dry, take off the stove and let it 
cool a little. Beat the whites and 
yolks separately, and when the- grits 
is cool beat in the yolks, and blend 
thoroughly. Then add the whites, 
and beat till very light. Add a gill 
of cream. Set in an oven and bake to 
a beautiful browin. and serve hot. 
This is an ideal Creole breakfast 
dish. Cold grits may be thus utilized. 

HOMINY. 

SaccamitS. 

Hominy is called by the Creoles the 
older sister of Grits. It was the In- 
dians around Louisiana who first 
taught the use of hominy. They used 
to take all the dried Indian corn and 
thresh it till all the yellow, hardened 
outer germ or hull came off, the grain 
being left white. Then they would 
bring the • large whitened grains into 
the city to sell. Hominy became a 
great industry, and was extensively 
manufactured and sold all over the 
south. It was the chief food of the 
couthern negroes. But it was also 
a standing dish on the most elegant 
tables. The little Creole children 
were reared on "La Saocamit6." The 
hominy was boiled In water in the 
same proportions as grits, but, of 
course, allowed to cook much longer, 
till the great white grains of corn 
were very soft, and yielded easily to 
pressure. It is still cooked in the 
same way, and eaten with milk or 
with sugar, the latter being a favor- 
ite dish with the Creole children. 
It is also eaten with meat and gra- 
vy, or simply with salt and butter. 
Left-over hominy is utilized in mak- 
ing hominy griddle cakes. So gene- 
ral is the use of hominy in Creole 
homes, th.at the ancient dames have 
a saying when any one is dissatisfied 
with home, and longs to pass beyond 
its environments, "Tempi, pour toi! 
La SaocamitS te ramfinera!" "Never 
mind! Hominy will bring you back!" 

We have also "Lye Hominy," or 
Hominy soaked in Lye till the coarse 
outer germ comes off. This is the 
great summer breakfast dish of the 
city and parishes. ' The hominy is 
made in the parishes, and shipped to 
New Orleans. It is also pounded and 
used for making "Lye Hominy 
Bread." 

In our day, oatmeal, cracked wheat, 



177 



en favorites, grits and hominy, In 
popular favor In New Orleans. These, 
as shown in this' chapter, are also 
cooked like grits. In the proportion 
of one cup of the grain to one quart 
of water. Simple breakfast hominy 
is the hulled grain broken up into a 
number of small sieces. 

Boiled Hominy. 

La Saccamitg Bouillie. 
1 Pint of Hominy. 
2 Quarts of Water. Salt to Taste. 
Hominy should always be soaked 
Over night in cold water. Wash the 
hominy, and put Into two quarts of 
water to soak. In the morning turn 
both hominy and water into a sauce- 
pan, and let it boil slowly for three 
or four hours. Serve with sugar and 
Cream. It may also be eaten with 
butter and salt and pepper. 

Hominy Croqnett^s. 

La SaccamitS en Croquettes. 
These are made from the left-over 
hominy. They are prepared In ex- 
actly the same manner as rice cro- 
quettes. (See recipe.) Grits may be 
made into croquettes In the same 
manner. 

Fried Grits or Hominy. 

Gru ou SaccamitS Frite. 

To fry grits or hominy, after the 
grain is boiled, let it cool. Then 
season with salt and pepper, and 
spread on a biscuit board. "When 
perfectly cold, cut into slices and 
dust each slice with a little flour. 
Brush again with a beaten egg, and 
fry In lard till a light brown. 

liye HOmlny or Samp. 

SaccamitS k la Lessive. 

This is an old-fashioned Creole way 
of preparing hulled corn. It is and 
has been much in vogue for many 
generations throughout rural Lou- 
isiana. The corn is allow^ed to get 
very ripe, put to dry, and then hulled. 
It is then allowed to lie for many 
days, spread out upon a cloth, till 
thoroughly dried. An Immense pot 
is then filled with water, and a bag 
containing at least a quart or more 
of hard wood ashes is put into it. 
A good peck of the old, ripe, dry, 
hulled corn Is thrown In. and it Is 
allowed to soak for at least twenty- 
four hours. The corn is then put to 
boil in these ashes till the husks or 
outer germs come off easily. Then 
the corn is thrown Into the cold wa- 
ter and divested of the hulls by thor- 
ough rubbing with the hands. It is 
then washed in four or five waters, 
till every taste of potash disappears. 

Another way the Creoles of rural 
liOuisiana have of preparing Lye 
Hominy is to dilute the strong lye 



In water, and then boil the corn In 
this till the hull comes off. After 
thoroughly washing, the corn pre- 
pared after either way is sent In 
large quantities to New Orleans, aa 
well as used for home consumption. 
In cooking Lye Hominy, it is either 
boiled in water until the kernels are 
soft, as in other recipes for Hominy, 
making a delicious dish when served 
with milk, or cream, or It Is ground 
or pounded into a flour, from which 
is made that famous Louisiana break- 
fast offering, "Lye Hominy Bread." 
(See recipe under chapter on Breads.) 
This flour also finds a ready sale 
among the Creoles during summer. 

In preparing Hominy after the fa- 
shion, the Creoles again demonstrate 
how perfectly they understand con- 
ditions of life in Louisiana and the 
peculiarities of our climate. Lye is 
an alkali, and when the corn is 
soaked in it, much of the oil, which 
gives it such heat-producing power, 
is lost. The Hominy thus prepared 
and distinguished as "Samp," be- 
comes a splendid summer food, while 
"Big Hominy" and 'Little Hominy" 
and "Grits" supply heat for winter. 
Any family may make Its own Lye 
Hominy a.t home in small quantities 
by following the above recipes, first 
making the lye by boiling two hand- 
fuls of clean, hardwood ashes in cold 
w^ater for twenty-five minutes, and 
w^hen the lye is strong and slippery 
add the corn. As the hulls begin to 
start, skim out the corn and throw 
it into a pan of cold water and pro- 
ceed as above. 

Cornmeal Mush. 

Bouillie de Farine de Mais. 

1% Cups of Cornmeal. 

2 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

VA Teaspoontuls of Salt. 

Set the water to boil in a porcelain- 
lined or agate stewpot; add the salt, 
and when the light scum comes on 
top, skim it off. Then add the fresh, 
sweet white cornmeal. putting a 
handful at a time Into the water, 
and stirring with a spoon, or a pud- 
ding stick, round and round, as the 
meal falls lightly from the hand. 
When one handful is exhausted, refill 
It, and continue stirring and letting 
the meal fall by degrees, until the 
pudding stick will stand in It. This 
Is the test. Continue stirring, and 
when sufficiently cooked, which will 
be in a half hour, as the bubbles be- 
gin to puff up, turn into a bowl, bring 
to the table (either hot or cold) and 
eat with milk, butter, sugar, syrup 
or with meat and gravy. 

In preparing this as a gruel for 
Infants, take one-half cup of corn- 
meal, a quart of water, and let It 
boil for at least one hour, stirring 
often. When done, soften with boiled 



178 



new milk, sweeten to taste and feed 
the infant with a spoon. 

Graham Meal Mush is prepared in 
the same manner as either of the 
above recipes. 

Milk Porriagc. 

Bouillie de Lait. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Indian Meal. 
1 Spoon of White Flour. 
3 Cups of Milk. 
114 Cups of Boiling Water. 
A Pincli of Salt. 
Bring the flour to a paste with a 
little cold water, and also scald the 
meal with a little hot water. Have 
the water boiling in the proportion 
given above; add the meal, and then 
add the flour, stirring constantly. 
Then let it boil for about twenty min- 
utes, and add the pinch of salt and 
the milk, stirring almost constantly; 
then let all cook for ten minutes 
more, stirring often. Serve while 
hot, with sugar and milk. This Is 
excellent for little children and in- 
valids. 

BARLEY. 

Orge. 

Barley is extensively used by the 
Creoles, especially in summer, for 
making soups. A good barley soup 
is considered not only a most nutri- 
tious dish, but a very cooling one. 



and especially suited to a summer 
diet. A half cupful is ' thrown into 
the soup. (See recipe for Barley 
Soup.) Barley water is also exten- 
sively used to cool the system, and 
also for delicate Infants, with whom 
very often even sterilized milk does 
not agree, and it is found absolutely 
necessary to substitute some other 
article of diet. The Creole mothers 
first soak two tablespoonfuls of bar- 
ley in a little cold water for about 
an hour, and then, without draining 
pour this into the boiling water, 
which has been very slightly salted. 
This v?ater is stirred very frequently 
and allowed to simmer for at least an 
hour. It is then strained and sweet- 
ened before it is used. Barley thus 
prepared is used extensively for in- 
valids. Barley must always be 
picked over and washed thoroughly 
in severo.l waters before using and 
soaked in a little cold water. 

BTJCKWHB3AT. 

Froment de Sarrasln. 

Buckwheat is not by any means 
a nutritive food, being far inferior 
to wheat and corn. It Is never eaten 
alone, but in combination with flour, 
is used in making those delightful 
breakfast accompaniments, "Buck- 
wheat Cakes." (See recipe, under 
Chapter on Breads.) 



CHAPTER XXVI. 



MACAROjVI. 



Macaroni. 



Macaroni is a general article of 
food in New Orleans among the rich 
and the poor. It is very cheap, and is 
a most excellent dish. We have In 
New Orleans large Macaroni fac- 
tories, where not only Macaroni is 
made by the Italians themselves, but 
the twin sisters of Macaroni. Spa- 
ghetti and Vermicelli, are also man- 
ufactured fresh daily. While there 
Is no city in the United States in 
which Macaroni is cooked in real 
Italian style but New Orleans, which 
has long been a favorde point of mi- 
gration for the sons of sunny Italy, 
the Creole cooks have modified and 
improved upon the Italian methods, 
so that Macaroni a, la Creole is just 
as famous a dish as Macaroni SL I'ltal- 
lenne, and by many considered far 
superior. 



Macaroni is used extensively in 
New Orleans in making soups. In 
this particular it was treated under 
the special chapter allotted to soups. 
(See Macaroni Soup.) 

How to Boll Macaroni. 

Always purchase the best quality 
of Macaroni. The cost is small and 
more satisfactory results are ob- 
tained in cooking. Avoid breaking 
the macaroni as much as possible. 
Immerse it whole in a large saucepan 
of boiling water; add a tablespoontul 
of salt and one of butter. Let the 
macaroni cook from twenty to twen- 
ty-five minutes; remove from the fire 
and drain in a colander. If not In- 
tended for immediate use, cover at 
once with cold water. When cool, 
drain and use as needed. 



ng 



Boiled nincnronl, Itnllan Style. 

Macaroni &, I'ltalienne. 

'^ Pound of Macaroni. 
1 Pound of Grated Parmesan Ciieese. 
1 Tablespoonful Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Break the macaroni into conven- 
ient lengths, and set to boil in*a ket- 
tle filled with boiling water and in 
which you have thrown a spoonful of 
salt and black pepper. Be careful to 
keep the lengths of macaroni firm. 
When cooked till tender, take off 
and strain the water. Take one ta- 
blespoonful of butter and one of 
flour and put them on the fire, blend- 
ing well. Have one pound of Par- 
mesan cheese grated; add one-half of 
it to the flour and butter, and one 
pint of the water in which the mac- 
aroni was boiled; the mixture must 
not be allowed to brown; stir briskly 
Place the macaroni by lengths into 
a dish, season well with salt and 
pepper, and warm a few minutes in 
the oven. When warm, take out the 
dish and sprinkle over it one-quarter 
of the pound of cheese that still re- 
mains; pour the hot sauce over this, 
and sprinkle the rest of the cheese 
on top; serve hot. 

Bailed Spagliettl, Italian Style. 

Spaghetti a, I'ltalienne. 

% Pound of Spaghetti. 

1 Pound of Grated 'Parmesan Cheese. 

' 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Spaghetti a, I'ltalienne is prepared 
in the same manner as in the above 
. recipe. Spaghetti is a more delicate 
form of macaroni. 

The Italians in New Orleans also 
simply bo.il the macaroni or spaghetti 
as mentioned above, sprinkle it with 
grated cheese and salt and pepper, 
and serve with a rich tomato sauce 
(see recipe), and grated cheese, the 
latter served in separate plates. This 
latter is a very rich dish. 

Macaroni or Spaghetti thus cooked 
is served with daube and is a very 
palatable dish. 

Maearonl Yvitli Tomato Sance. 

Macaroni a, la Sauce Tomate. 

^ Pound of Macaroni. 
1 Gill of Tomato Sauce. 
1 Gill of Madeira Sauce, or Wine. 
% Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 
1 Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 
Boil the macaroni in salted water 
for twenty minutes, adding a table- 
spoonful of butter and an onion, with 
two cloves stuck in it. Then drain 
two cloves stuck in it. Then drain the 
macaroni of all water; place it in a 



saucepan with a gill of Tomato Sauce 
and one of Madeira Sauce or Madeira 
Wine. Add a quarter of a pound of 
grated Parmesan cheese;season well 
with salt and pepper; add a dash of 
Cayenne, and let the mixture cook 
slowly for ten or fifteen minutes, toss- 
ing frequently to prevent burning. 
Place the Macaroni on a hot disli, 
pour the sauce over it, and serve 
with grated Parmesan cheese passed 
in a separate dish. Spaghetti may 
be prepared and served in the same 
manner. 

Macaroni, Creole Style, 

Macaroni a, la Creole. 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

% Can of Tomatoes, or 6 Fresh Ones. 

1 Tahlespoonful Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the macaroni according to the 
recipe given above. When done, drain 
through a colander without breaking 
the lengths. Season well with Salt 
and pepper. Put one tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying pan and add' one 
tablespoonful of flour; blend well and 
as it browns add the tomatoes, which 
have been chopped fine in their own 
juice. Let this stew, after stirring 
well for about ten minutes, and when 
It begins to boil add the macaroni or 
spaghetti, mixing well without break- 
ing the lengths. Let it boil up once, 
and then serve hot. The" dish may be 
served with any meats. 

Macaroni or Spagliettl Milanaise 
Style. 

Macaroni ou Spaghetti a la Milanaise. 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

Vi Pound of Cold Boiled Ham. 

1 Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 
1 Onion. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 

1 Can Tomatoes. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
Boil the macaroni in water and 
salt as in the recipe given for Boil- 
ing Macaroni. When tender, drain 
well through a* colander. In the 
meantime, while it is boiling, put a 
tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan, and as it melts, add the grated 
onion. Let this brown, and then add 
the^ ham which you will have minced 
very fine. Let this brown; add the 
clovea of garlic, minced very fine, and 
the herbs, minced very fine. Then add 
almost im.mediately, as these begin to 
brown, for bay leaf burns quickly, a 
half can of tomatoes, or six fresh 
large tomatoes. To this, as It stews, 
add a half pound of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and let all stew for about ten 
minutes; then add the macaroni or 
spaghetti, and let all simmer gently 
for about twenty minutes longer. 
Serve hot, and pass at the same time 



180 



a small plate of grated Parmesan 
cheese to each person. 

Macaroni, Neapolitan Style, 

Macaroni i la Napolitaine. 

J^ Pound of Macaroni. 
Yi Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 
Vi Pint of Tomato Sauce. 
^ Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 
6 Muslirooms. 2 Truffles. 

1 Ounce of Smoked Beet Tongue. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Vt Bottle of Claret. 
1 Carrot. 1 Herb Bouqute. 

2 Sprigs of Celery. 
Boil the macaroni, and cut Into 
pieces of about two inches long-, after 
draining thoroughly. Place it in a 
saucepan with a half pint of Tomato 
Sauce and Sauce Espagnole (see re- 
cipe), and add the cheese. Add the 
herb bouquet, tied together; cut the 
truffles and mushrooms and carrot in- 
to dice-shaped pieces; mince the eel- 
pry and add; then add the beef tongue 
cut into small dice-shaped pieces. To 
this add the Claret. Let all cook for 
about fifteen minutes, tossing fre- 
quently in the meantime. When ready 
to serve, remove the herb bouquet 
and send to the table hot. 

Macaroni an Gratln. 

Macaroni au Gratin. 

% Pound of Macaroni or Spaghetti. 
1 Pound of. Parmesan Cbeese (Grated). 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and ' Pepper to ^aste. 
Boil the macaroni by its length in 
water until soft. Do not let it cook 
too much, but just enough to be soft, 
and lift out of the water without 
breaking. This will require about a 
half hour of rapid boiling'. When 
done, take out of the water In which 
It was boiled, and season well with 
salt and black pepper. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter, blended well with 
flour, into a pint of milk. Let It boll 
two minutes. Place a layer of the 
spaghetti or macaroni In the pan in 
which It is to be baked, seasoning 
again to taste, and mix in a layer of 
the grated cheese; sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt; then put in alternately 
a layer of the macaroni and a layer 
of cheese, and so on until three- 
fourths of the cheese is used. Do not 
break the macaroni or spaghetti. 
Pour over this the boiling milk. Take 
the remaining quarter pound of 
cheese and sprinkle thickly on top, 
dot here and there with bits of but- 
ter, and put in a quick oven and let 
it bake to a nice brown. Serve In 
the dish in which it was baked. In 
cooking macaroni or spaghetti, cream, 
or milk may be used always instead 
of water, using a pint of either In 
the above proportions. If you have 
not the milk, a pint of the water In 



which the macaroni was boiled will 
answer equally well. This recipe Is 
highly recommended as the nicest 
way of preparing macaroni. 

Macaroni or Spaghetti Wltli Danbe, 

Daube au Macaroni ou au Spaghetti. 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

A Veal or Beef Daube. 

1 Pint of Hot Water or Broth. 

This is a popular Creole dish, and 
a very good one, too. Prepare a 
daube. (See recipe, "Boeuf a, la Mode 
ou Daube.) After it has cooked about 
an hour and a half, and is about 
two-thirds done, add the macaroni 
according to the number to be served, 
using between a quarter and a half 
pound for six, and cutting the maca- 
roni into lengths of about five inches, 
to facilitate serving. Let it boil for 
about three-quarters of an hour in 
the daube, and if you see, on adding 
it, that there is not sufficient gravy 
for it to cook well, add a h^lf pint 
or a pint more of hot water or 
hot broth, according as the macaroni 
appears to absorb after it has been 
in the pot four or five minutes. Cook 
until very tender, and on serving 
place the daube in the center of the 
dish and heap the macaroni around. 

Chicken and macaroni may be pre- 
pared in the same way. Both are ex- 
cellent and favorite New Orleans 
ways of serving macaroni. They are 
also very healthy and nutritious fam- 
ily dishes. 

Spaghetti may also be cooked In 
cither of these ways, and makes a 
more delicate dish. 

TImbale of Macaroni. 

Macaroni en Timbale. 

% Pound of Macaroni or Spaghetti. 

1 Head of Edam's Cheese. 

% Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Nearly every family keeps a head 
of Edam's cheese for general use. 
When you have finished, scooping out 
the cheese, do not throw away the 
head, but keep it to make a Timbale 
of Macaroni. Boil a little over one- 
quarter of a pound of macaroni, or 
sufficient to fill the head, according 
to the above directions (Boiled Mac- 
aroni.) When boiled, take out of the 
water and set in a dish. Take about 
half a pint of the liquor in which 
the macaroni was boiled, strain it 
and set it back on the stove; add the 
flour and butter blended, and three- 
quarters of the grated cheese, and let 
it boil five minutes. Then pour this 
sauce over the macaroni in the dish 
and mix well, seasoning with salt and 
pepper to taste. Pill the head with 
this mixture, and sprinkle on top the 
rest of the grated cheese. Set in the 



181 



stove to bake, and, when nicely 
browned, serve hot from the shell at 
the cheese. The macaroni may also 
be baked in molds, but there is no 
comparison to the Timbale when 
made in the empty cheese head. This 
is a grenuine Timbale of Macaroni, 
and the only way to really teake the 
dish. 

Mncaroul Balls. 
^ Boulettes de Macaroni. 

1 Cwp of Cold Boilefl Macaroni. 

1 Cnp Boilins Milk. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Cheese. 

The Yolks of 4 EgKS. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the butter into a saucepan, and 



as it melts add the flour, but do not 
let it brown. Add the cup of bolliijs 
milk and atir well. When it begins 
to thicken add the grated cheese, 
and let it simmer for a few minute.-s 
longer; then take from the fire and 
■add the beaten yolks of four eggs. 
Have the macaroni cut into tiny bits 
and work it well into this mixture. 
Then set it aside to cool. When cold, 
'take a little flour, rub it on your 
hands, and form the macaroni 
into small balls about two inch- 
es in length and one in thick- 
ness. Dip the balls into a 
well-beaten egg, roll well and then 
roll in grated cracker crumbs. Fry 
in boiling lard, and .".erve hot. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 
CHEESE. 

Du Fromage. 



Cheese is one of the most nutritious 
of all f(>od substances, being not only 
substantial, but especially rich in ni- 
trogenous matter. Among scientists 
it ranks very high as an article of 
food. Being somewhat expensive, it 
is not as economical as other kinds of 
food, but the Creole family must be 
very poor indeed in which cheese of 
some kind is not served after each 
meal, especially after dinner. They 
hold that cheese is a good aid to di- 
gestion, and if it is simply the Gru- 
y§re cheese or the plain "From"age 
a, I'Americain," you will always see 
it passed around as a proper finish to 
a meal just before the coffee is 
brought in. 

So much for the cheese in its na- 
tural state. In cooking, the Creoles 
use some very delightful forms, chief 
among which is that old French prep- 
aration known as 

Cheese Ramakins. 

Ramequins de Fromage. 

6 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Cheese. 

1% Gills of Milk. 

The Yolks of Three Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Ounces of Bread. 

% Tablespoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

The Whites of Three Eggs. 

Cayenne and Salt to Taste. 

Put the milk on to boil, and add the 
bread, which you will have minced 
fine. Stir the milk and bread until 
very smooth, and then add the but- 
ter, stirring well, and finally the 
grated cheese. Stir this for five min- 
utes, letting it boil, and then take 
off the fire and add the beaten yolks 
of three eggs. Have the whites 



ready, beaten to a stiff froth, and 
stir them in very gently. Season to 
taste. Grease a baking dish with but- 
ter and pour the mixture into the 
dish, set in a quick oven, and let it 
bake for a quarter of an hour. Serve 
hot. 

Cheese SonfflC-. 

SoufilS de Fromage. 

Vi Pound of Grated Cheese. 

1 Gill of Fresh Cream or Milk. 

3 Creole Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Pinch Cayenne. Salt to Taste. 

Grate the cheese very fine and then 
add to it the boiling milk; add grad- 
ually the pepper, Cayenne and salt. 
Then add the butter and flour, rubbed 
well together. When the cheese is 
well dissolved, take the mixture off; 
then add nutmeg and the beaten 
yolks of three eggs and the whites 
of two eggs beaten to a froth; stir 
the whole well. Place all in a ghal- 
low earthern dish, add a little butter 
that has been well melted and put in 
the stove for a few minutes till it be- 
gins to solidify well; then take out 
and spread on top the white of one 
egg, beaten to a stiff froth. Set one 
minute in the stove,- let it 
brown slightly and serve im- 
mediately. If you cannot at- 
tain the acme of browning the 
whites of eggs without letting them 
fall; stir the whites into the mixture 
with the eggs and serve hot, after 
letting it brown slightly. Some add 
a little mustard to the mixture, but 
it is better without it. 



182 



Toasted Clieese. 

Fromage sur Canapes. 

% Pound of Cheese. 6 Slices of Bread. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Toast the bread nicely and butter 
it. Cut the cheese into very thin 
slices and hold to the Are, letting it 
toast nicely, first on one side and 
then on the other. Lay this upon 
the buttered toast and serve hot. 
This is a very nice delicacy for 
breakfast, or for an evening in win- 
ter when seated around the home 
fire. 

Cbeese Straws. 

Pailles de Fromage. 

1 Cup of Grated Parmesan or Gruyere Cheese. 

1 Cup Flour. _1 Tablespoonful Butter, 

Yolk of an Egg. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Blond the flour and cheese togeth- 
er and add at the same time- the salt 
and Cayenne; then moisten with a 
well-beaten egg and one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, and work all 
gently into a paste. Roll out on a 
biscuit board into thin strips of not 
more than an eighth of an inch in 
thickness, and cut into strips of four 
inches in length and one-eighth of an 
inch in width. Place on buttered 
sheets of paper and bake in a very 
hot oven until a light brown. It is 
very pretty to make little rings of 
some of the strips and pass the others 
through them in little bundles like 
gathered bound bits of straw. This 
Is a very dainty dlsn. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Fromage Fondu a. la BiSre. 

2 Cups of Grated Cheese (Very Rich). 

% Cup of Milk. The Yolks of Two Eggs. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

The old English dish, "Welsh 
Rarebit," under this name crossed 
the channel to France, and thence to 
New Orleans. 

Toast the bread nicely in square 
slices and cut off the crusts. Butter 
nicely while very hot and then 
plunge them into a bowl of boiling 
milk. Place them on a heated dish 
and stand in the oven to keep hot 
■while you proceed to make the 
"Rarebit." Have a porcelain-lined 
saucepan; and set a half cup of milk 
in it over a moderate fire; when it 
is boiling hot, add the cheese which 
has been finely grated; stir unceas- 
ingly till the cheese melts, and then 
add tile salt, Cayenne and the yolks 
of the eggs and pour over the toasted 
bread. Serve hot. In making this 
"D61icat6sse," the cheese must be 
very rich or it will be tough and 
stringy, because poor cheese will not 
melt. 



Cheese Biscuits. 

Biscuits de Fromage. 

Yi Pound of Butter. Vi Pound of Flour. 

5 Ounces of Grated Swiss Cheese. 

% Tablespoonful of Mustard. 

Tolks of 2 Eggs. A Dash of Cayenne. 

Beat the butter to a cream; add 

the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, 

and mix well. Then add gradually 

the grated cheese, mustard and Ca- 

yenne. Add the flour gradually, 

beating in thoroughly and make a 

stiff dough. Roll It out and cut into 

square or round biscuits. Bake in a 

rather slow oven for twenty minutes 

and serve. 

Cheese Fondu, 

Fromage Fondu. 

1 Cup of Grated Parmesan or Gruyere Cheese. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sifted Flour. 

2 TSblespoonfuls of Butter. 3 Creole Eggs. 

% Cup of Fresh Milk or Cfeam. 
A Pinch of Urated Nutmeg. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the butter into a saucepan and 
melt, and add the flour, blending 
without allowing it to brown. Add 
immediately the boiling milk,- and let 
it boil for two minutes. Then re- 
move from the fire and stir in the 
yolks of three eggs, well beaten; 
then salt, pepper, nutmeg and the 
grated cheese. Mix all thoroughly. 
Have ready a small pudding dish, or, 
better still several small souffie dish- 
es. Butter these well. Have the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth beat them into the mixture and 
fill the dishes about two-thirds full, 
Then bake in a moderate oven for 
about twenty-five minutes. Serve 
immediately, or the mixture which 
has risen to the top of the dishes will 
fall. 

Cream Cheese. 

Fromage 3. la Cr&me. 

Cream Cheese is always made from 
clabbered milk. The "Cream Cheese 
Woman" is still as common a sight 
on our New Orleans streets as the 
Cala woman was in the days gone 
by. She carries a covered basket in 
which are a number of small perfo- 
rated tins in which the cheese are. 
In her other hand she carries a can 
of fresh cream. She sells her wares 
to her regular customers, for the old 
Creoles who do not make their own 
cream cheese are very particular as 
to whom they buy from, and when 
once a good, clean, careful woman 
gets a "customer" she keeps her 
during her period of business, com- 
ing early every fast day and Friday 
with her cheese and cream, for this 
is a fast-day breakfast and luncheon 
dish. 

Many of the Creoles, however, 
make their own cream cheese, as fol- 



183 



lows: The clabber is placed in a long 
bag of muslin and put to drain, the 
bag being tied tightly and hung out 
over night in a cool place. When 
ready for use, the bag is opened and 
the cheese is taken out and beaten 
till light. It is then placed in these 
perforated molds, and when the time 
comes for serving it is taken out 
placed in a dish, and sweet cream is 
poured over it. It is eaten with su- 
gar or salt, more generally sugar. 
Frozen cream cheese is a very del- 



icious summer dish with the Creoles. 
Some persons, after skimming the 
cream from the sour milk, stand the 
pan on the back of the stove, and 
scald the clabber with about three 
quarts of boiling water before put- 
ting in the bag to drain. Again, 
some use only the perforated tins, 
instead of the muslin bag, but the 
best results are obtained by the form- 
er ancient Creole method. Cream 
cheese corresponds to the German 
"Schmier Kase." 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 
CANAPfiS. 

CanapSs. 



No book on Creole cookery would 
be complete without reference to the 
delightful "Canapes" that are so ex- 
tensively used at breakfasts, lunch- 
eons, dinners or suppers, and whose 
methods of preparation, distinctively 
Creole, have added to the reputation 
of the Creole cuisine. "CanapS" is a 
French term, literally meaning a 
"couch" or "bed." In the culinary 
sense it is used as a bed on which to 
rest savory foods. Usually the Can- 
apS is the form of sliced bread, or 
toast, or crackers, covered with finely 
minced meats, pastes, etc., and hand- 
somely decorated. It is a term that 
is also applied to the ordinary "Sand- 
wich." 

AnchoiT Canapes. 
Canapes d'Anchois. 

6 Slices of Dry Toast. 

1 Ounce of Anchovy Butter. 

2 Dozen Anciovies. 

First prepare the Anchovy Butter, 
by adding to one ounce of good reg- 
ular butter one teaspoonful of Ancho- 
vy Essence. Mix well and set on 
ice till ready to use. 

Prepare six slices of bread, slicing 
them about one-half an inch thick 
and toasting to a golden brown. Trim 
the edges nicely and spread over each 
a little Anchovy Butter and then 
cover each with four Anchovies cut 
in halves, or pounded to a paste, ac- 
cording to taste. Place the toasts on 
a tin baking sheet in an oven for one 
minute, and then arrange neatly on 
a folded napkin on a dish and serve. 

Anchovy CanapSs "With Hard-Boiled 

Elggs, 

Canapgs d'Anchois aux Oeufs Durs. 

6 Slices of French Toast. 

1 Dozen Anchovies. 2 Hard-Bollefl Eggs. 

1 Oilnce of Anchovy Butter. 

Prepare six slices of French toast 

(see recipe), spread over each a lit- 



tle Anchovy Butter, and then spread 
bver this buttered toast the Ancho- 
vies and hard-boiled eggs, which 
have been finely minced and mixed 
together. Place on a folded napkin 
in a dish and serve. 

Anohovy CanapSs, Creole Style. 

Canapfis d'Anchois a. la Crfeole. 

6 Slices ot French Toast. 

1 Dozen Anchovies. 1 Ounce ot Grated Ham. 

6 Gherkins. % a Truffle. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salad Oil. 

1 Teaspoonful of Caper Vinegar. 

i Ounce ot Aspic Jelly. 

Prepare the French toasts (see re- 
cipe) ; trim the edges neatly. Chop 
the Anchovies very fine and mix with 
the ounce of grated boiled ham, and 
the truffle and gherkins, all minced 
very fine; moisten this with the salad 
oil and vinegar, which have been 
well mixed. Spread over the toast 
and garnish nicely with the aspic 
jelly, and place on a folded nap- 
kin and serve. The Anchovy prep- 
aration may also be used to fill very 
small patty cases; in this case, serve 
with a garnish of delicate pieces of 
toast and Aspic Jelly. 

Anchovy Canapts With GraySre 
Cheese. 

CanapSs d'Anchois au Fromage de 
GruySre. 
6 Slices of French Toast. 
2 Ounces ot Gruyere Cheese. 
16 Anchovies. 
6 Minced Gherkins. 1 Ounce of Anchovy 
Butter. 
Prepare the French toast (see re- 
cipe) ; pound the Anchovies to a paste 
with the Gruyfire cheese; line very 
shallow gem pans with a pie paste. 
(See recipe.) When baked, set to 
cool, and then fill in with the Ancho- 
vy preparation. Then invert this on 
a circle of nicely buttered Anchovy 



184 



toast; garnish with the minced gher- 
kins and serve. 

Cracker Anclioi'7' Canap£s. 

Canapgs d'Anchois aux Biscuit. 

1 Dozen Soda Crackers or Butter Crackers. 

2 Dozen Anchovies. 

1 Ounce of Anchovy Butter. 

Cut the Anchovies into halves. But- 
ter one side of six crackers with the 
Anchovy butter; lay on this four An- 
chovies sliced in half; cover each 
with a cracker; place on a folded 
napkin on a dish and serve. A very 
pretty conceit at luncheons is to tie 
the crackers across and around with 
narrow green ribbon, making a deli- 
cate knot in the center. 

Swiss Canapes. 

Canapgs a, la Suisse. 

1 Ounce of Anchovy Butter. 
S Hard-Bolled Eggs. 6 Stuffed Olives. 

3 Minced Green Gherkins. 
6 Slices of Toast. 
Prepare the French toast, and cut 
six delicate pieces into the shape of 
a triangle. Spread these with An- 
chovy butter; decorate along one side 
with the whites of the eggs, finely 
minced; along the second triangular 
edge with the minced yolks of the 
eggs and on the third with the 
minced green gherkins. Place a 
stuffed olive (see tecipe) in the cen- 
ter, and arrange nicely on a folded 
napkin on a dish and serve. 

Caviar CanapSs. 

CanapSs de Caviar. 

6 Slices of French Toast. 

% of a Box of Russian Caviar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cream. 

Prepare the toast and out in deli- 
cate circles. In the meantime put 
half the contents of a small box of 
Russian Caviars into a sautoire or 
"saucepan; add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream and ^leat one and a half min- 
utes on the stove. Be careful to 
stir constantly. Pour this over the 
toast; place on a dish on a folded 
napkin and serve. Again, the circles 
of toast may be used as a foundation, 
the edges being spread with Anchovy 
butter, with an onion ring at Its base. 
Pill this decorated ring with the Ca- 
viars, place on a folded napkin on a 
dish and serve. i 

Canapes, Hunters' Style. 

Canapes a, la Chasseur. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

1 C^p of Forcemeat of Game (White Meat). 

% Cup of Forcemeat of Game (Dark Meat). 

Prepare trianguar-shaped pieces of 
toast, butter nicely and spread over 
with a game forcemeat (Woodcock, 
Snipe, Keed Birds, etc.) Decorate 
the edges with a forcemeat of game 
of diflerent color, for effect, and serve. 



The wild duck, the meat of which 
is dark, may be utilized in this gar- 
'nish. Left-over game also may be 
thus nicely utilized at luncheon or 
supper. 



Crab Canapes. 

CanapSa de Crabes au Canapfis 

Lorenzo. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

8 Hard-Shelled Crabs. 1 Ounce of Butter. 

1 Small Onion. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 2 Tablespooufuli 

of Flour. 

1 Gill of Broth or Water. 

2 Ounces of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

2 Ounces of Grated Swiss Cheese. 

For this recipe first prepare the 
'Deviled Crabs" as follows: Boil the 
crabs. (See recipe Boiled Crabs ) 
Then pick out all the meat from the 
claws and bodies, and season nicely 
with salt and pepper. Put one ounce 
of butter into the saucepan, and add 
a finely minced onion; let this cook 
on a slow fire for two minutes, but 
by no means allow either butter or 
onion to brown. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and stir constantly for a 
minute and a half, and then add a 
gill of broth or water, if the broth is 
not convenient. Stir well and let 
this mixture cook for five minutes, 
stirring constantly. Now add the crab 
meat and let it cook for fifteen min- 
utes longer, stirring occasionally 
with a wooden spoon. Turn the mix- 
ture into a dish and let it cool for 
about a quarter of an hour. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter into a sauce- 
pan, and add Immediately a table- 
spoonful of flour and blend well; let 
this cook for three minutes, stir- 
ring all the time, and then a;dd two 
ounces of grated Parmesan and two 
ounces of grated Swiss cheese. Stir 
all well together, blending thorough, 
ly, and then turn into a vessel to 
cool. Cut six slices of bread the full 
length and width of the loaf, using 
preferably the "Pan Bread," or deli- 
cate French loaf. Let the thickness 
of each slice be about a quarter of an 
inch; neatly trim off the crust, and 
fry the bread in a saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of butter till they have 
reached a golden brown. Then let 
them cool, draining off all butter. 
Divide the crab forcemeat and the 
cheese separately into six equal parts; 
place a layer of the crab forcemeat 
one-quarter of an inch thick on each 
slice of toast. Take the six portions 
of cheese and roll each Into a ball- 
shaped form about two Inches in dia- 
meter, and arrange them on each por- 
tion of toast nicely and equally; place 
in a dish and brown in the oven for 
five minutes, and send the Canapfis to 
the table hot in the same dish In 
which they were baked. 



185 



Obtofeen CnnnpSs. 

Canapgs de Volaile. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

1 Cup of Chicken Forcemeat. Ounce of Butter 

1 Gill of Cream. 

The Whites of 2 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 

2 Ounces of Parmesan Cheese. 

Prepare a Chicken Forcemeat (see 
recipe), and then prepare six slices 
of toast, cut square or in circles. Add 
an ounce of butter and one gill of 
cream to the chicken forcemeat; 
■work well together, and then set to 
cool. Spread the toast lightly with 
butter, and spread over each slice a 
portion of the chicken forcemeat to 
the thickeness of one-quarter of an 
Inch; sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese, set in the oven and bake for 
five minutes, and then decorate in 
the center with delicately cut pieces 
of the white of hard-boiled eggs and 
serve. 

CanapSs of Chicken Livers. 

Canapes de Foies de Volaille. 

1 Dozen Chicken Livers. 1 Onion. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Dash of Anchovy Essence. 1 Ounce of Butter. 

Salt and Red Pepper to Taste. 

Pimentos and Ked Chili to Garnish. 

SautS the Chicken Livers (see re- 
cipe) with a finely minced onion till 
tender; then pound them to a paste, 
adding first a dash of Anchovy' Es- 
sence, one tablespoonful of butter, 
salt and red pepper to taste. Cut the 
bread the full width of the loaf and 
trim the . edges nicely; then fry in 
butter to a golden brow^n; take out 
and drain, an(f place in a silver dish, 
or in the dish in w^hich they are to 
be served, and pile up the chicken 
liver preparation in pyramidal shape 
on top of the toast; smooth nicely all 
around with a knife and set in the 
oven for two or three minutes; then 
decorate the edges of the bread with 
slices of Pimentos and rings of Red 
Chilis and serve hot. 

Creole CanapSs. 

CanapSs a. la CrSoIe. 

Cup of Grated or Minced Boiled Ham. 

1 Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Peeled Tomato. 1 lllnced Green Pepper. 

6 Slices of Buttered Toast. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Ounces of Par- 
mesan Cheese. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Grate and mince only the lean por- 
tion of ham till you have a cupful. 
Put this in a saucepan with a ta- 
blespoonful of butter, and add the 
finely minced onion and garlic. Let 
this cook for three minutes, and then 
add the finely-cut tomato and minced 
green pejpper. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper; add a dash of Ca- 
yenne, and letvthe preparation stew 
down dry; then spread on strips of 
buttered toast and dredge with grated 



Parmesan cheese. Set in the oven 
in the dish in which it is to be 
served and bake for five minutes and 
send to the table hot. 

Clieese Canapes. 

CanapSs de Fromage. 

6 Slices of Swiss Cheese. 

6 Slices of Toast. 
1 Gill of Sauce Plquaute. 
Take six slices of bread cut the 
whole width of the. loaf, one-halt 
inch in thickness, and hollow out 
one-half of the inner portion. Toast 
this nicely and spray the inner part 
with Piquante Sauce. (See recipe.) 
Have ready six slices of toasted or 
baked Swiss cheese; fit a slice into 
each cavity in the sliced toast; set. 
in the oven for a few minutes and 
serve very hot. 

Coilflsli CanapSs, 

Canapfis de Cabillaud ou de Morue. 
1 Cup of Boiled Salt Codfish. 
1 Green Pepper. 3 Young Onions. 
1 Teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 
Capers to Garnish. 
Boil the codfish (see recipe), or 
utilize left-over fish; mince finely and 
mix thoroughly with the minced 
green peppers and young onions, and 
season with one teaspoonful of Tar- 
ragon vinegar. Spread on triangu- 
lar-shaped pieces of toast placed on 
a dish on a folded napkin. Decorate 
nicely with capers and serve. 

Ham Canapes. 

CanapSs de Jarhbon. 
6 Slices of Lean Ham. 
6 Slices of Toast. 
1 Tablespoonful of French JIustard. 
1 Gill of Cold White Sauce. 
1 Boiled Onion. 1 Cooked Garlic. 
2 Ounces of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 
Prepare the toast nicely, cutting 
the slices the full width of the bread, 
paring the edges nicely and toasting 
and buttering well. Lay on each 
piece of toast a thin slice of very 
lean ham, which has been lightly 
spread with French mustard. Spread 
lightly over this a cold "White .Sauce 
(see recipe "White Sauce, Sauce 
Blanche) to which has been added 
while cooking a finely-minced onion 
and clove of garlic, and a dash of 
Parmesan cheese. Dredge the top of 
the CanapS with Parmesan cheese, 
then sprinkle lightly with finely- 
grated bread crumbs. Set in the oven 
for five minutes and bake and send 
to the table hot. 

Fisli CanapSs. 

Canapfis de Poisson. 

1 Cup of Minced Left-Over Fish. 

1 Tablespoonful of French Mustard Dressing. 

1 Gill of Sauce Piquante. 

2 Ounces of Parmesan Cheese. 

6 .Slices of Toast. 

Utilize in this form of Canapfi any 

kind of white-fleshed Fish, Red Fish, 



186 



Red Snapper, Sheephead or Trout, 
etc. Prepare a forcemeat (see re- 
cipe) and season with tlie Frencli 
Mustard and the Piquant Sauce. 
Spread a layer one-quarter of an 
inch thick over delicate strips of 
toast, dredge with grated Parmesan 
Cheese, set in the oven, and bake for 
five minutes and serve hot. 

Canap£s of Potted Ham, 

Canapgs de Jambon en Conserve. 

1 Box of Potted Ham. 
2 Ounces of Grated Bailed Ham. 
Ibln Slices of Green Glicrkins^, 
6 Slices of Toast. 

Prepare delicate strips of Toast, 
spread with Potted Ham to a quarter 
of an Inch in thickness, then sprinkle 
lightly with grated ham and decorate 
the edges, and cover fideslred, with 
thinly-sliced Green Gherkins. The 
grated Boiled Ham may be omitted. 

Indian Canapes. 

Ca:nap6s a. I'lndienne. 

1 Bos of Potted Ham. 1 Ounce of Cbutney. 

fl Slices of Toast. 

2 OuDCes~^f Grated Parmesan Clieese. 

Cut six slices of bread into delicate 
circles, and fry in butter. Spread 
first with Potted Ham and then with 
Chutney. Sprinkle with grated Par- 
mesan Cheese. Set in the oven to 
brown for five minutes, and serve hot. 

Oyster Canapes. 

Canapfis d'HuItres. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 6 Slices of Toast. 

2 Tablespoonfols of Hollandalse Sauce. 

Parsley Sprigs. 

Blanch the oysters (see recipe) and 
then mince very fine. Mix with two 
tablespoonfuls of Hollandalse Sauce, 
and then spread over thin strips of 
Buttered toast. Sprinkle lightly with 
Parsley, which has been grated so 
fine as to be almost a dust. Put a 
bit of butter on top of each Canap6 
set In the oven for a few minutes, 
and send to the table hot. 

Olive CanapSs. 

Canapes d'Olives. 

6 Stuffed Olives. 6 Slices of Buttered Toast. 

6 AnchoTles. 

Capers and Minced Olive to Garnish. 

Prepare the toast and cut Into del- 
icate circles. Place on each circle a 
coiled Anchovy, and set a Stuffed 
Olive in the center of the coil. Dec- 
orate. lightly with Olives and Capers 
minced very fine, and serve. Again, 
this Canapg may be prepared by fry- 
ing the circles of toast in butter, and 
spreading them with Anchovies 
pounded to a paste, and decorating 
on top with minced Capers and Ol- 
ives. 



Canapes of Potted Tongrae. 

Canapes de Langue de Boeuf en Con- 
serve. 

1 Box of Potted Tongue. 

Strips of Cooked Pork Tongue. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Prepare the toast and cut into deli- 
cate circles. Spread with a layer of 
Potted Tongue one-quarter of an incli 
In thickness, and decorate with strips 
of cooked Bed Tongue In lattice 
forms, that is with strips laid one 
over the other, like a lattice work. 

Louisiana Canap£s. 

Canap§s a, la Louisiane. 
Two Breasts of Cliicken. % of a Red Tongue. 
2 Ounces of Grated Lean Boiled Ham. 
A Dash of Ourry Powder. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Thick Veloute Sance. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 
Mince very fine the cooked breasts 
of the chicken, and cut the ham and 
tongue Into small dice shapes; mix 
well with the chicken, and season 
with salt and a dash of Cayenne. 
Add a dash of Curry Powder, and 
then work the entire forcemeat well 
with two tablespoonfuls of thick Vel- 
outS Sauce. (See recipe.) Spread 
the mixture in layers one-quarter of 
an inch thick on each slice of deli- 
cate circles of toast, dredge lightly 
with Parmesan Cheese, set in the 
oven for five minutes and bake. Send 
to the table hot. 

Sardine CanapSs, 

Canapes de Sardines. 

6 Triangular Slices of Toast. 

1 Box of Sardines. 3 Hard-BoIIed Eggs. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 6 Anchovies. 

A Dash of Red Pepper. 

Pound the sardines and the hard- 
boiled eggs to a paste, season with 
a dash of Red Pepper and the juice 
of a lemon and spread the buttered 
toast with the mixture. Decorate In 
the center with a coiled Anchovy. 
Or, simply pound the sardines to a 
paste, season with a dash of red pep- 
per and the juice of a lemon, and 
spread on the slices of buttered toast. 

Spanlsli Canapes. 

Canapes a. I'Espagnole. 

6 Circular Pieces of Buttered Toast. 

1 Cup of Finely Minced White Fleshed Fish. 

3 Sweet Pickles. 

1 Tablespoonful of Madras Chutney. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Hollandalse Sauce. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Parmesan Cheese. 
Prepare circular pieces of but- 
tered toast, make a mixture of a cup 
of any whlte-fieshed fish, the Ma- 
dras Chutney moistened with the 
Hollandalse Sauce and minced 
pickles, all pounded together. 
Spread this over the toast and 
dredge with grated Parmesan 
Cheese. Set In the oven and 
bake for five minutes. 



187 



CANNELONS. 

Cannelon is a term applied to pe- 
culiar hollow lengths of puff paste 
or noodle paste, made by taking a 
piece of piping or tubing and cutting 
the paste into strips and twining 



around the tubing or piping. Bake 
or fry this preparation, remove the 
tubing and fill in the cannelons with 
a forcemeat of sausage, chicken cro- 
^ quette mixture, preserves, jellies or 
creams. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 



VEGETABLES. 

Des Legumes. 



Louisiana is peculiarly favored in 
respect to the variety of vegetables 
that can be grown on her soil. Al- 
most all the sturdier varieties of 
vegetables and all the more delicate 
and recherchfe are grown here in 
abundance. The soil Is so rich and 
fruitful that it has been said that 
if you simply scatter the seed 
over the ground, without any ef- 
fort at cultivation, it would 
still take root and a good crop 
would follow. Our climate also ad- 
mits of two seasons of planting, so 
that we have both an early spring 
and autumn crop; the one extends far 
into the summer and verging upon 
the autumn, and the other till late 
in the winter and verging upon the 
early spring. Consequently, vegeta- 
bles are always to be found In abun- 
dance in our markets. 

The nutritive value of vegetable 
food is high, especially of peas, beans 
and lentils. Among the succulent 
vegetables, the potato ranks as the 
most nutritious, and there is scarcely 
a table in New Orleans on which 
the potato in some form is not served 
every day. Turnips, carrots, cab- 
bage, parsnips, beets, onions, aspara- 
gus, spinach, cauliflower, artichokes 
and egg plants are all highly nu- 
tritious, and most of them possess 
medicinal qualities that make them 
of great value as blood purifiers. The 
old Creoles hold that the family that 
makes it a daily practice to eat vege- 
tables and fruits, when in season, 
will never have need of a physician. 
All green vegetables should be fresh- 
ly gathered when bought, and should 
be well washed in cold water before 
cooking. Some vegetables, such as 
dried beans, split peas and lentils, 
do not boil to softness in hard water, 
that is, when put into boiling water. 
The seeds contain salts of lime, or 
sulphates, and these at once coagu- 
late if the vegetable is put into hot 
water to boil, and no after amount 
of boiling can ever bring them quite 
to softness. Always put such vege- 
tables to cook in cold water, allow- 



ing it to heat gradually with the 
vegetables. 

on the other hand, young green 
vegetables, such as green peas and 
Strang beans, are best cooked in hard 
or boiling water, for the cold water 
has such solvent powers that it im- 
mediately destroys the firmness of the 
outer coating of the vegetable, and 
tlie color also, the juices passing out 
into the water. Onions should be set 
to boil in hot water. 

Some vegetables such as green 
peas, spinach, string beans, Brussels 
sprouts, should be boiled uncovered, 
it you wish them to retain freshness 
of color. 

A most important rule is to allow 
the vegetable to cook until done or 
tender, and not a moment longer, or 
it will be wet and soggy. Remove the 
vegetable from the nre the moment 
it is done, and do not allow it to 
stand in the water, but be careful 
to drain at once thoroughly. It is a 
wise rule to calculate the time that 
will be required in cooking the vege- 
table and the hour at which you in- 
tend to serve it, and so arrange that 
it will be put on at the proper time, 
and be "just done" at the proper hour 
for serving. Above all, don't let the 
vegetable stand in a hot oven and dry 
up while waiting for the meal to be 
served. Place in a dish over a pot of 
boiling water, and this will keep it 
hot and moist. 

In the following recipes the vege- 
tables found in our New Orleans mar- 
kets are treated systematically. It 
will be noticed that new-fangled re- 
cipes, with high-sounding titles that 
mean nothing but some old-time 
method of cooking in a new dress, 
have been carefully eschewed. Dish- 
es have been called by their proper 
names, and care taken not to con- 
fuse by a vast number of recipes, 
whose value is worthless. The Cre- 
oles believe that the flavor of a veg- 
etable should be dominant in every 
way in which it is served. They, 
therefore, cling with singular tenac- 
ity to the old-fashioned methods, 
rather than the so-called elegant 
novelties, whose chief aim seems to 
be, judging from the combinations 



188 



,lhat enter into the recipes, to utterly 
destroy the original taste of the veg- 
etable itself. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Des Artichauts. 

Artichokes are of two kinds: The 
French or Green Globe Artichokes, 
which have large scaly heads, like 
the cones of a pine, and the Jerusa- 
lem Artichokes. The latter are little 
esteemed by the fastidious, the pref- 
erence being always given to the 
former, which is a more delicate and 
tender variety, and a popular favor- 
ite. In Louisiana the Jerusalem Ar- 
tichoke is cultivated principally for 
its tubers, "which are very valu-^ible 
for stock and hog feeding, owing to 
their fattening properties. But, if 
boiled or made into a purfee, these ar- 
tichokes will be found not only a 
pleasant, but most nutritious food. 
French artichokes may be boiled or 
stuffed or fried. 

To tell it a French Artichoke is 
tender, lift up one of the scales that 
lie near the body of the vegetable. 
If it breaks without effort, the veg- 
etable is young; otherwise, the ar- 
tichoke will be tough and disagreea- 
ble to eat. 

Frencb ArtlcUokes Boiled. 

Artichauts Frangais Bouillis. 

6 Tender Fresh Artichokes. 1 Tablespoouful 

of Vinegar. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. Sauce, according to 
Taste. 

Strip off the coarse outer leaves, 
or, better still, cut the stalks close 
with a pair of scissors, and trim the 
sharp points from the leaves, re- 
moving about a quarter of an inch of 
each. Cut the stalks about an inch 
from the bottom. Throw in cold wa- 
ter and wash well, adding a little 
vinegar to draw out any lurking in- 
sects. Have on the stove a pot of 
boiling water, and add a teaspoonful 
of salt. Throw in the artichokes and 
boil gently untilit is possible to draw 
out a' leaf easify, or until the outer 
leaves are tender. Take from the 
fire and drain upon a dish, placing 
them upside down, so that the water 
may all run off. Stand on their stalks 
in another dish when thoroughly 
drained, and serve hot with a Drawn 
Butter Sauce, Sauce a, la Maltre 
d'Hotel or a Sauce a. la Hollandaise. 

The time for boiling an artichoke 
depends entirely on the age and size 
of the vegetable and requires all the 
way from twenty-flve minutes to an 
hour. 

Jemsalem Articliokes Boiled. 

Topinambours Bouillis. 

6 Jerusalem Artichokes. Sauce a la Maltre 

d'Hotel or a la Creme. 

Wash the artichokes in cold water, 
and scrape them. Then throw them 
into cold water, and let them soak 



for an hour or so. Take out and 
drain. Put them in a saucepan; cov- 
er with boiling water, and let the.m 
boil slowly until tender; watch care- 
'' fully, as they will easily harden again 
Serve with a Sauce a. la Maltre d'Ho- 
tel or a Cream Sauce. (See recipes.) 

PurSe of Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Purge de Topinambours a, la Cr&me. 
6 Artichokes. 1 Tablespoouful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Wash and skin the artichokes, and 
boil until tender in a pint of water. 
Press them through a colander, and 
return to the fire in a saucepan in 
which you have placed a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, salt and pepper. Stir 
well, and let them simmer for five 
minutes longer, and serve with a 
Cream Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Fried Artichokes. 

Artichauts Frits. 
6 Artichokes. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Pluck off the coarse scales of the 
articbotee, and th«n throw the veg- 
etable into cold water. Let it stand 
for an hour. Then drain. Cut the i 
•meat into delicate slices, and fry in 
butter, just as' you would potato 
chips. Serve with Filet of Beef, Veal 
SautS, Smothered Chicken, etc. 
Artichokes SautSs, 
Artichauts Sautfis. 
6 Fine Tender Artichokes. 2 Tablespoonfnlt 
of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. Any Sauce 

Desired. 
Take six fine artichokes and cut 
into quarters. Remove the choke en- 
tirely. :, Trim the leaves neatly and 
parboil in hot water for five min- 
utes, being careful to add a tea- 
spoohf ijf of salt and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar to the water. After five 
minutes remove the artichokes and 
drain thoroughly. Place ;n a sauce- 
pan pr sautoire, with two good ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter. Cover the 
pan tight and sot to cook in a moder- 
ate oven for twenty-flve minuti'S, 
Then take the artichojces from the 
pan and place in a deep serving dish 
and serve with a Sauce a. la Maltre 
d'Hotel, a Drawn Butter Sauce, a 
Hollandaise Sauce, or any sauce de- 
sired. 

Artichokefv A la Vinaigrette. 

Artichauts a. la Vinaigrette. 
Fine, Tender Young Artichokes. 3 Table- 
spoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 1 Shallot, 

The Yolk of a Hard-Boiled Egg. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Prepare and boil the artichokes as 
in recipe for French Artichokes 
Boiled (see recipe.) Serve with the 
following sauce: Take the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg, dilute It with two 
teaspoonfuls of vinegar, blend well, 
season to taste with salt and pepper; 



189 



chop the shallot very, very fine, add 
to the mixture, and then add gradu- 
ally three tablespoonfuls of Olive 
Oil. Mix all together well. Place 
■ the artichokes on a folded napkin on 
a dish, and send to the table with 
the sauce in a separate dish. 

Stuffed Articliokes. 

Artichauts Parois a, la Barigoule. 

3 Quarts of Boiled Artichokes. 

1 Ouion, ilinced. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 

V2 Square Incli of Ham. 

1 Tables?oonful Butter. M, Can of Muslirooms. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and boil the artichokes ac- 
cording to recipe. (Boiled Arti- 
chokes.) When the leaves begin to 
be tender and it is possible to pull 
out a leaf without difficulty, take the 
artichokes off the fire. Pull off a few 
of the coarse leaves, and then scoop 
out the artichoke, without touching 
the "fond," or bottom meat, and with- 
out breaking the outer scales or 
leaves from the sides and around. 
The artichoke must be apparently 
whole and undisturbed. Then chop 
an onion, or, rather,- mince it very 
fine, and mince two cloves of garlic 
and half a square inch of ham very, 
. very fine. Take a quarter of a can 
of mushrooms and mince them fine. 
Mix all this together as a stuffing, 
and season well w^ith salt, pepper and 
Cayenne. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying pan, and fry the 
dressing in it for about five or ten 
minutes. Takp'pff the flre. and stuff 
each artichoke from the center, which 
you will have scooped, beginning Just 
above the heart or "fond" of the ar- 
tichoke. Pour over each a spoonful 
of broth or consomm6, or water; 
sprinkle lightly with bread crumbs; 
put a dot of butter on each, and set 
. in the oven and bake for five min- 
utes, till the crumbs are nicely 
browned. Serve immediately, using, 
if you wish, a Drawn Butter Sauce, 
but it is unnecessary. (See Beurre a. 
la Maltre d'Hotel.) 

ASPARAGUS. 
Des Asperges. 

Asparagus is a vegetable of very 
delicate flavor, and is much sought 
after and highly esteemed by epi- 
cures. It is a dainty accompaniment 
to the most elegant feast. 

Boiled Asparagus. 

Asperges en Branches. 
1 Can of Asparagus or 2 Bunclies of Fresh 

Asparagus. 
% Pint of Hollandalse or 1 Gill of Drawn 
Butter Sauce. 
When it is possible to get fresh 
asparagus, carefully wash it in cold 
water, and cut off the tough white 
ends. Scrape the white part well, 
and throw it into cold water, to soak 
for half an hour. Then tie it in, 



small bundles, and put it in a sauce- 
pan lined with porcelain. Pour over 
boiling water, and let it cook for 
twenty minutes. Add a teaspoonful 
of salt and cook ten minutes longer. 
Take the asparagus up nicely. Drajn 
off all water. Lay on a folded nap- 
kin, and serve with a Drawn Butter 
Sauce. (See recipe.) Asparagus is 
generally bought in New Orleans in 
cans, being very nicely prepared. It 
requires simply to be set on the stoye 
and allowed to heat, as it is already 
cooked. Take out of the can by 
turning it downward in a dish, let- 
ting the aspai-agus slide gently out. 
Drain off all water, and place on a 
folded napkin, and serve with a 
Drawn Butter Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Asparagus Vinaigrette Sauce. 

Pointe d' Asperges a. la Sauce Vinai- 
grette. 

1 Can of Asparagiis. Vi Pint oi! Vinaigrette 
Sauce. 
Prepare the asparagus as in the 
above recipe. Drain and set to cool. 
Serve with a half pint of Vinaigrette 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Asparagus Tips With Green Peas. 

Pointes d'Asperges aux Petit Pois. 

1 Can of Asparagus or 2 Bunches of Fl'esh 

Asparagus. 
1 Can of Green Peas or 1 Pint of Fresb 

Green Peas. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 6 Tablespoonfuls 
of Cream Sauce. 
6 or S Buttered Croutons. 
Cut the tender parts of the as- 
paragus into pieces of about one inch 
in length. , Take the asparagus wa- 
ter, in which they were put up,, and 
set on the stove to heat, and add the 
canned green peas to tlie fresh peas 
that have already been boiled. Throw 
in the asparagus tips, and add water 
sufficient to cover. Boil rapidly for 
ten minutes; then drain very thor- 
oughly and return to the flre, having 
added one tablespoonful of butter, 
salt, pepper and six tablespoonfuls 
of Cream Sauce. (See recipe.) Stir 
carefully, so that you may not break 
the tips and serve on neat Crofltons 
of buttered toast, or place in a dish 
and bring piping hot to the table as 
an entrg. The coarse ends of the as- 
paragus must not be thrown away, 
but may be utilized In a very nice 
Cream of Asparagus Soup. (See re- 
cipe.) 

BBAIVS. ^ 

Des Haricots. 

Beans, whether white or red, are 
among the most nutritious of food 
substances. In all the ancient homes 
of New Orleans, and in the colleges 
and convents, where large numbers 
of children are sent to be reared to 
be strong and useful men and women, 
several times a week there appear 



190 



on the table either the nicely cooked 
dish of Red Beans, which are eaten 
with rice, or the equally wholesome 
White Beans a. la Crfeme, or Red or 
White Beans boiled with a piece of 
salt pork or ham. String Beans a la 
Sauce de Maitre d'Hotel, or boiled 
with a piece of salt pork or or ham, 
are also classed among the especial- 
ly nutritious beans. The Creoles hold 
that the boys and girls who are 
raised on beans and rice and beef 
will be among the strongest and 
sturdiest of people. 

String Beans W^ith Batter Sauce. 

Haricots "Verts k la Maitre d'Hotel. 

2 Quarts of Fresb, Tender String Beans. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. Salt and Pepper 
to Taste. 

Always select tender beans. Break 
the blossom end, and pull it back- 
ward, removing the string. Then be 
careful to pare the thin strip from the 
other end of the bean pod. It is only 
in this way that you will be sure that 
every inch of string is removed. Split 
the larger beans down the pod, and 
let the younger and more tender re- 
main whole. Wash them in clear, 
cold water, letting them stand about 
ten minutes. Then drain off the wa- 
ter, put the beans into a saucepan, 
cover well with boiling water, and 
let them boil for forty minutes or an 
hour, according to the tenderness of 
the beans. Just before serving drain 
off water, put a large tablespoonful 
of butter into the beans, mix well, 
sat and pepper to taste, and serve 
hot. 

String Beans frith Cream Sauce* 

Haricots Verts a, la CrSme. 

2 Quarts of Fresh String Beans. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. ^ Cup of Fresh 
Milk or Cream. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

String and wash the beans accord- 
ing to the first recipe. Place in a 
saucepan and cover with boiling wa- 
ter. Let them boil for an hour. Then 
drain off the water. Take a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of flour, 
and blend well. Add a half cup of 
fresh milk or cream, or one-half pint 
of the water in which the beans have 
been boiled. Season nicely with salt 
and pepper. Stir in the beans; set 
them back on. the stove for several 
minutes; let them simmer gently. 
Season again with salt and pepper 
to taste, and serve hot. The flour 
may be omitted, and, instead, dilute 
but do not boil after adding the eggs. 
the milk with the yolk of two eggs. 



String Beans, Brittany Style. 

Haricots Verts t la Bretonne. 

2 Quarts of Fresh String Eeans. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Flour. 

1 Pint of Chicken Consomme or "Water. 

1 Medium-Sized Onion. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. Salt and Pepper 

to Taste. 

Take a medium-sized onion, peel 

and cut into small dice-shaped pieces. 

Put the onion in a saucepan with 

the butter and let it sautg to a gold- 

en brown. Add the flour gradually, 

blending well, a:nd moisten with the 

consommg or water. Let the mixture 

come to a boil and skim the broth; 

then add the string beans, which have 

already been boiled and drained. Let 

them simmer for ten minutes, adding 

in the meantime one, flnely-mlnced 

clove of garlic. After ten minutes, 

place the beans in a hot dish, sprinkle 

with chopped parsley and serve hot. 

String Beans & la Vinaigrette. 

Haricots Verts a, la Vinaigrette. 

2 Quarts of String Beans. 
A Sauce a la Vinaigrette. 
Boil the string beans according to 
recipe. (See recipe String Beans with 
Butter Sauce.) When done, drain and 
serve with a Vinaigrette Sauce. Gar- 
nish the dish with sliced lemon dip- 
ped in parsley, which has been 
chopped very flne, and small gherkins 
cut in fan shapea. 
\ 

String Beans & la Poulette. 

Haricots Verts a la Poulette. 

2 Quarts of String Beans. 

A Sauce a la Poulette, 

Boil the beans as in the recipe for 

String Beans with Drawn Butter 

Butter Sauce. Drain and serve with 

a Sauce a, la Poulette poured over. 

String Beans Boiled With Ham. 

Haricots Verts au Jambon. 

2 Quarts of String Beans. 

1 Pound of Lean Ham or Salt Pork. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Proceed to prepare the beans in 
exactly the same manner as men- 
tioned above. Throw them into cold 
water, and let them stand for about 
ten minutes. Have ready a large 
saucepan of boiling water in 
which you will have placed 
a pound of salt pork or ham, 
and allowed to boil for al- 
most an hour. Drain the beans and 
put them into this, and let them boil 
forty minutes or an hour longer. Sea- 
son with pepper only, and serve, 
placing the salt pork or ham in the 
center of the dish, and heaping the 
beans around. This is an excellent 
way of utilizing the ham bone which 
is left over from the boiled ham. 
The Creoles like the flavoring of ham 



191 



or salt pork in vegetables. A bit of 
fine herbs, nicely minced, and one on- 
ion, minced fine, greatly add to the 
flavor of this dish. 

String Beans Panaches. 

Haricots Verts Panach6s. 
1 Pint of String Beans. 
I Pint of Lima Beans. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 
Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the string beans and out them 
Into pieces of about three-fourths of 
an inch in length; mix them with an 
equal quantity of boiled Lima beans 
(see recipe); put them in a saucepan 
with two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
let them saute for five minutes, and 
toss continually while cooking. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper to taste, 
place on a hot dish, sprinkle with 
finely-chopped parsley and serve hot. 

REID BEANS. 

Haricots Rouges. 

Red Beans are the favorite dish 
among Creole families, the great 
amount of sustenance to be found in 
this and the White Bean commending 
it especially as a food for growing 
children and adults who labor hard. 
The beautiful color and excellent fla- 
vor of the Red Bean has won for it 
a place among the most highly es- 
teemed legumes. 

Red Beans, Plain Boiled. 

Haricots Verts au Naturel. 

1 Pint of Dried Red Beans. 
% . spoonful of Lard or Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
This is an excellent way of prepar- 
ing red beans for Fridays and fast 
days. Soak the beans in cold water 
over night, or at least five or six 
hours, and drain off the water, and 
place them in a pot of cold water, 
using at least a quart of water to 
a pint of beans. Let them boil for 
at least an hour and a half or two 
hours, and then season nicely with 
salt and pepper. Add a half table- 
spoonful of lard or butter, let them 
cook for fifteen minutes more, and 
serve in their own juice. This dish 
Is excellent with boiled rice. 

Red Beans, Burgundy Style. 

Haricots Rouges a, la Bourguigpnne. 

1 Quart of Red Beans. 
1 Ounce of Butter. 1 Onion. 2 Cloves. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
1 Glass of Claret Wine. 6 Small Glazed 
Onions. 
Pick and wash the beans and let 
them soak in cold water for six hours 
Drain thoroughly, and put in a suce- 
pan, with sufficient fresh cold water 
to cover. Add a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and a medium-sized onion, with 
two cloves stuck in it. Boil for 



about twenty minutes, and then add 
a glass of Claret. Stir well, and 
let the beans cook for three-quar- 
ters of an hour longer, stirring fre- 
quently to keep from scorching. Then 
remove from the fire, take out the 
herb bouquet and onion, pour the 
beans into a hot dish, and decorate 
the edges with a half dozen small 
glazed onions. (See recipe.) Serve 
hot. 

Red Beans & la Conde 

Puree a, la Cond6 

See recipe under heading "Soups." 
'This is a most nutritious dish. 

Red Beans and Rice, 

Haricots Rouges au Riz. 

1 Quart of Dried Red Beans. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter, 

1 Pound of Ham or Salt Meat. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the beans and soak them over 
night, or, at least five or six hours, 
in fresh, cold water. When ready to 
cook, drain off this water and put 
the beans in a pot of cold water, cov- 
ering with at least two quarts, for 
beans must cook thoroughly. Let the 
water heat slowly. Then add the 
ham or salt pork, and the herbs and 
onion and carrot, minced fine. Boil 
the beans at least two, hours, or until 
tender enough to mash easily under 
pressure. When tender, remove from 
the pot, put the salt meat or ham 
on top of the dish, and serve hot as 
a vegetable, with boiled rice as an 
entrfie, with Veal Sautfi, Daube a, la 
Mode, Grillades k la Sauce, etc. 

Purge of Red Beans. 

Purge d'Haricots Rouges. 

1 Quart of Dried Red Beans. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Pound of Ham or Lean Salt Pork. 

% Pint of Creim or Milk. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the beans as in the preced- 
ing recipe if it is desired to make a 
purge (not a soup). Remove the 
beans from the fire as soon as they 
will mash very easily under pressure. 
Take out the bits of ham. Press the 
beans through a colander. Add a ta- 
blespoonful of butter as you return 
them to the pot in which they have 
been boiled, and a half pint of cream 
or milk, or sufficient according to 
quantity to make the pur6e of the 
consistency of thick starch or mashed 
potatoes. Season with salt and pep- 
per, and serve. Thus prepared, red 
beans may be eaten by the most deli- 
cate invalid with excellent results as 
to recuperation. 



192 



Bacon and Bean^ H la Creole. 

Haricots au Petit Sal6 a, la Creole. 

1 Quart of Dried Red Beans. 1 Pound Bacon. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Soak the beans' over night. Drain 
off all water. Place in a pot and 
cover "well with cold water, in the 
proportions already mentioned. Add 
the bacon, leaving- it in a single 
square piece. When both have boiled 
about two hours, season well with 
pepper and a little salt, if necessary, 
and place the bacon in the center of 
a baking- dish. Drain the beans and 
put them around the bacon. Fill the 
pan to the top with liquor in which 
the beans have been boiled, and bake 
one hour and a half, or until the liq- 
uor is nearly all absorbed. Then 
serve hot. This is a favorite dish 
with the little Creole children, and, is 
most wholesome and palatabe. White 
or fed beans may be cooked in this 
fashion. 

Bean Polenta. 
Polente d'Haricots. 

2 Cups of Dried Beans. 

1 Tatlespoonful of Molasses. ^ TalJlespoonful' 

of Mustard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Tablespoontul 

of Vinegar. 
Juice of 1 Lemon. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Use either white or red beans. 
Wash two cupfuls of dried beans, 
having previously soaked them over 
night. Pour off the water. Put the 
beans in the stewpan and cover with 
fresh cold water, and cook the beans 
until tender. Pour into a colander, 
and press the beans through. Put 
this pulp into the stewpan, and add 
one tablespoonful of ready-made 
mustard, one tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses, one of butter, one of vine- 
gar, the juice bi an onion, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Serve very hot, 
as a vegetable. 

WHITE BEANS. 

Des Haricots Blancs. 

White Beans may be prepared in 
exactly the same manner as red 
beans, using any of the above re- 
cipes. By many the white bean is 
preferred as the more delicate bean. 

Wlilte Beans it la Maltre d'Hotel. 

Haricots Blancs S. la Maitre d'Hotel. 
1 Quart of -Wblte Beans. 

2 Sprigs of Minced Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
Sauce a la Maltre d'Hotel. 

Prepare the' white beans and cook 
in exactly the same manner as red 
beans a la Maltre d'Hotel. Before 
adding the butter, however, add a 
minced sprig of thyme, bay leaf and 
parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Let them simmer for a few minutes 
on the fire, and then take oft and add 
the juice of a lemon. 



DRIED PEAS. 

Des Pois Sees. 

All dried peas, whether the Black- 
eyed Peas, Lady Peas, etc., may be 
cooked according to any of the above 
recipes. Be careful to soak them 
over night in cold water, or at least 
six hours from the early morning, be- 
fore beginning to cook. 

COAVPEAS. 

Pois Congris. 

These peas are utilized by the Cre- 
oles in making that famous dish, 
"Jambalaya au Congri." (See recipe 
under heading "Louisiana Rice.') On 
Fridays the rice and peas, which are 
always boiled separately, must not be 
cooked with meat, if this day is kept 
as a fast day. The pea)s and rice are 
mixed well together and are eaten 
■with butter. 

BUTTERBEANS. 

FSves Plates. 

1 Pint of Butterbeans. 2 Pints of -Water. 

J Tablespoonful (heaping) of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The butterbean is one of the most 
recherche and delicate of our 
Louisiana vegetables. Soak the but- 
terbeans for about a half hour in 
water. Pour off this cold fresh wa- 
ter, and then put them in a porce- 
lain lined saucepan, or one of agate, 
and cover with two pints of water. 
Let them boil well for about an hour, 
or less, if they are very tender. As 
soon as they crush easily under pres- 
sure, take off the fire, drain off water, 
season well with salt and pepper. 
Butter well with a heaping table- 
spoonfu\ of butter, add a teaspoonful 
of parsley, minced very fine, and 
serve hot. This is a delicious and 
welcome dish at the most elegant 
tables. Butterbeans are raised so 
extensively in Louisiana that they 
&.re very cheap and may always grace 
the poor mans table as well as the 
rich. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Haricots k Rames. 

1 Pint of Lima Beans. 3 Pints of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. % Pint of Cream. 

Salt and -Pepper to Taste. 

The younger the Lima beans the 
better . It is a great mistake to al- 
low the beans to grow large and 
hard. Sort the beans as you shell 
them, and save the very large ones 
for a purge. Soak the small ones over 
night. Drain the water wh^en about 
to cook, and put in a porcelain or 
agate saucepan, and cover with three 
pints of boiling water. Boil them 
until very tender, which will require 
at least two hours. After they have 
boiled one hour, add a teaspoonful of 



193 



salt, or salt to taste. When done, 
drain the beans and return to the 
saucepan. Add a half pint of cream 
or milk, a tablespoonful of flour, 
blended well with butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, a sprig each of thyme 
and parsley and bay leaf minced very 
fine. Let all simmer for ten min- 
utes, and" tTien serve hot. Or the 
beans may be served without the 
cream, simply buttering well and ad- 
ding salt and pepper to taste. All 
shelled beans, such as the Kidney and 
the small French bean, may be cooked 
in the same way. The larger Lima 
Beans may be saved, and will serve 
some day during the week for a pu- 
rge. 

Bean Croquettes, 
Haricots en Croquettes. 

1 Pint of Beans. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Gayeune to Taste. 

Any remains of left-over beans 
may be nicely utilized in this way. 
Mash the beans well by pressing 
through a colander. Then add salt 
and pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of 
vinegar, and a tablespoonful of melt- 
ed butter. Form Into small bou- 
lettes, or balls, and dip in a raw egg, 
well beaten, and then roll in the 
bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat, 
and serve hot. 

BBBTS. 
Des Betteraves. 

We have in New Orleans two crops 
of beets, the winter beet and the 
summer beet. Summer beets require 
less time to boil than the winter. 
Good judgment must always be the 
guide. 

Beets may be kept several days 
when boiled, and make a beautiful . 
garnish. 

The small winter beets may be 
served aux Beurre Maitre dHotel, or 
they may be sauted in butter or 
served Sautfies a. la Cr§me or a. la 
Bechamel. Beet roots are generally 
served as a salad or garnish. Always 
cut off and save the green tops of 
the beets. These may be boiled with 
salt meat, or made into a pur§e, or 
used in the famous Creole Gumbo aux 
Herbes. 

Boiled Beets. 

Betteraves Bouillies. 

6 Beet Roots. 2 Quarts of Water. 

A Plain French Dressing (if seryed as a salad). 

Cut off the beet tops and sa.ve for 
boiling or purfie or gumbo. Soak the 
beets in cold fresh water, and wash 
well, taking off every particle of 
earth that may adhere. Wash them 
carefully, without scraping them. If 
the beet is very tender. It will cook 
in an hour. Older beets require all 
the way from three to four hours, 
according to size. If the beet is wil- 
ted or tough, no amount of boiling 
will ever make it perfectly tender. 



If you break the skins of the beets 
before cooking, the flavor will be lost, 
a-s well as the color, when boiled. 
Put the beets into a pot of cold wa- 
ter, covering well, and boil until 
tender. Then set them to cool. 

When cold, slice nicely and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper to 
taste, and add vinegar, and set aside 
for an hour, for the vinegar to pene- 
trate thoroughly. Serve as a salad. 

Buttered Beets. 

Betteraves au Beurre. 

6 Beet Boots. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The small winter beets may be 
served aux Beurre Maitre d'Hotel, 
by cooking very tender and then slic- 
ing nicely, and pouring over them a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
sprinkling nicely with salt and pep- 
per. Vinegar may also be added at 
the table, according to the taste. 

Beet Roots SautSd In Butter. 

Betteraves Sautges au Beurre. 

6 Beets. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
A Pinch of Black Pepper. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered Sugar. 
Boil the beet roots as in recipe for 
Boiled Beets. (See recipe.) When 
cooked, peel neatly and cut up into 
dice-shaped pieces. Put them in a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of 
butter, season with a little pinch of 
black pepper and salt to taste, and 
sprinkle the powdered sugar over 
them. Let them cook for five min- 
utes, tossing them lightly and almost 
constantly. Send to the table hot as 
a vegetable. 

Beet Roots Saute & la Bechamel on 
a la CrCme. 

Betteraves Sautfies a, la Bechamel ou 
a, la CrSme. 
6 Beet Roots. 1 Ounce of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
% Pint of Bechamel or Cream Sauce. 
Prepare the beets exactly as in the 
preceding recipe, and about five min- 
utes before serving add half a pint 
of hot Bechamel or Cream Sauce. 
Serve as a vegetable. 

Borecole or Curled Kale. 

Chou Vert. 

This is a vegetable cultivated by 
Louisiana truck farmers principally 
for family use. It requires frost to 
make it good for the table. It is 
treated and served in the same man- 
ner as cabbage; all recipes for cook- 
ing cabbage may, therefore, be used 
in preparing Chou Vert. 

BROCCOLI. 

Chou Broccoli. 
Broccoli is a vegetable of the same 
order as the Cauliflower, and resem- 
bles it very much, only the plant does 



194 



not form such compact heads, and is 
not quite so white, being of a green- 
ish cast. Such fine Cauliflower is 
raised in and around New Orleans 
that very little Broccoli is planted. 
Further north than New Orleans, 
however, where Cauliflower does not 
succeed, it is substituted for it, as 
the hardier plant. It thrives easily, 
and in season is always to be found 
In the New Orleans market, selling 
much cheaper than Cauliflower, and 
is used very frequently as a substi- 
tute. It is prepared and served in 
all ways in which Cauliflower is 
served. (See recipes for Cauliflower.) 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Choux de Bruxelles. 

1 Quart of Brussels Sprouts, 

% Gallon of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Pick the sprouts carefully, reject- 
ing all loose, dead leaves, and then 
throw the sprouts into cold fresh wa- 
ter, so that any lurking insects may 
be drawn out. Wash and pick care- 
fully after the sprouts have remained' 
about twenty minutes in the water. 
Then put them into half a galon of 
boiling water, and add immediately 
a tablespoonful of salt and a quarter 
of a spoon of bicarbonate of soda 
(cooking soda). Let the sprouts boil 
(uncovered) for twenty minutes, or 
just long enough to make them ten- 
der all through. By no means must 
they be soft, or go to pieces. Boil 
rapidly. Then drain in a colander, 
season well with pepper and salt, 
and serve in a heated dish with a 
Drawn Butter Sauce poured over. 
(See sauces.) 

Brussels Spronts SautCd in Butter. 

Choux de Bruxelles Sautgs au 

Beurre. 

1 Quart of Brussels Sprouts. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. , 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
Salt and Pepppr to Taste, 

Prepare the Brussels Sprouts care- 
fully as in the preceding recipe. Af- 
ter washing, drain thoroughly and 
boil them in salted water for ten 
minutes. Take out of the hot wa- 
ter, drain and put Into cold water. 
Drain again and put them in a sauce- 
pan, with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter. Season according to taste with 
salt and pepper, and add a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. Let them 
■ cook slightly for ten minutes more, 
or less if very tender, and serve hot. 

Brussels Sprouts ft la Cr&me. 

Choux de Brussels a la Cr&me. 

1 Quart of Brussels Sprouts. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
H Cupful of Cream or Milk. 

A Pinch of Nutmeg. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Prepare and boil the Brussels 
Sprouts as in the preceding recipe. 



Drain thoroughly, and put in a sauce- 
pan, with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, and season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and a pinch of nutmeg. Add 
a half cup of cream or milk, and toss 
lightly for five or ten minutos, but 
do not let them boil. Place on a 
'hot dish, garnish nicely and serve 
hot. 

cabbage;. 

Du Chou. 

Cabbage is said to be the most nu- 
tritious of all vegetables. It en- 
ters largely Into the daily life of 
the Creoles, not only in the boiled 
and creamed and stuffed states, but 
also in that most delightful Creole 
dish. Gumbo Choux. In many a Cre- 
ole family of limited means the good 
dish -of Gumbo Choux and rice, and a 
dish of Grillades, make not only a 
most appetizing and nutritious, but a 
most hearty meal. We have two 
crops of cabbage in New Orleans, the 
summer and winter. It is said that 
when cabbage is cooking the odor 
fills the house. But the Creoles over- 
come this by using a very large pot 
when boiling cabbage, dropping in a 
bit of charcoal, and not filling it 
too near the brim, as the old darkles 
say it is the boiling water that forms 
into steam and causes the odor. 
Again, they tie a piece of bread in a 
very fine and thin white piece of 
cloth. After it has been in the pot 
about twenty minutes remove it 
and burn, for the odor of the cabbage 
has clung to it. Repeat the process 
with a fresh piece of cloth and bread 
for about three-quarters of an hour. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Chou Bouilli. 

A Fine Head of Green and White Cabbage. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 1 Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chili Pepper. 
For boiling, select a fine white 
head in which the green and white 
are prettily mingled. The white 
makes the prettiest dish. Remove 
all the outside leaves and reject them. 
Then cut the cabbage head into quar- 
ters, and let it soak in cold water 
for about an hour. Then drain well, 
and pull off each leaf separately to 
discover any lurking insects, and 
throw each leaf into a pan of fresh 
water. Drain thoroughly, and put 
into a large pot of boiling water 
with a pound of ham or salt pork, and 
let it cook for an hour or more, un- 
til tender. After it has been in the 
'water ten minutes, add a teaspoonful 
of salt and a red pepper pod, cut In 
two. Add a teaspoonful of Chili 
pepper. Cover the cabbage and boil 
for one hour, if the cabbage is very 
young and tender; boil for two hours 
or more if not. When done, drain 
well of all water, and place in a dish 
with the salt meat or ham on ton- 



195 



and serve hot. Cabbage Is always 
eaten with a Uttle vinegar. The 
Creoles serve boiled cabbage with 
the pepper vinegar Which they put 
up themselves. 

Cabbage and Corned Beef. 

Chou et Boeuf au Mi-sel. 

1 Fine Head of CaTjbage. 1 Pound of Corn Beef. 

1 Ked Pepper Pod. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chili Pepper. 
To boil corned beef and cabbage, 
wash the meat in cold water and put 
it in a large kettle; cover with cold 
water. Let it simmer gently for 
two hours. Then add the cabbage, 
which you will have prepared ac- 
cording to directions in the above 
recipe, and let all boil for two hours 
longer. When done, put the cabbage 
In a dish, with the meat in the cen- 
ter, and serve with tomato catsup or 
horseradish or mustard sauce. The 
cabbage may be put in the pot after 
having been cut in four quarters and 
soalced, but it is always safer to pick 
over each leaf, for fear of insects. 

Stevred Cabbage. 

Chou EtoufES. 

1 Head of Cabbage. 1 Pound Ham or Salt Pork. 
Salt to Taste. Pinch of Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Tablespoonful of X^ard. 
Parboil the cabbage after cutting 
Into quarters. Let it boil well about 
half an hour. Then take it out of 
the water and drain nicely, separat- 
ing the leaves down to the heart as 
it cools. Cut the ham into pieces of 
about two inches long. Take a ta- 
blespoonful of lard, and put in a 
stewing pan, which must be very 
deep, or a pot. Put into this the 
ham or salt meat, and let it fry well. 
Add two chaurice, or sausage. As 
these brown well, moisten with half 
a cup of boiling water, and let sim- 
mer gently for fifteen minutes. When 
well browned, add, little by little, 
the cabbage, stirring it well, and let 
it simmer gently for an hour 
and a half or longer, cov- 
ering well, and stirring frequently 
to prevent burning. Add an inch of 
red pepper pod, cut fine, and salt to 
taste if you use ham, and none at 
all if you use salt meat. Serve hot. 

Cabbage Stewed With Sausage. 

Saucissons aux Choux. 

2 Dozen Fine Sansage. (Chaurice Preferred.) 

1 Head of Cabbage. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. Salt to Taste. 
1 Inch of Red 'Pepper Pod. 
1 Pound Fresh Pork. 
This is a famous Creole dish, for 
many generations in vogue in New 
Orleans, and dearly loved by the lit- 
tle Creole children. Wash the cab- 
bage well, after having out it into 
quarters and allowed it to soak half 
an hour. Cut the cabbage into shreda 
of about one inch in width and five 
In length, according to the leaf. Then 
•cald the cabbage with boiling wa- 



ter for about fifteen minutes. Throw 
off this water, and cover it again 
with boiling water, and let it boll 
for twenty minutes. In the mean- 
while prick each sausage in several 
places, and cut the meat into pieces 
of about two inches in length and 
one in thickness; put the lard in the 
frying pan and fry the sausage and 
meat until they are about half done; 
then drain the cabbage and turn into 
the sausage and meat and the fat 
drippings. Cover and stew gently 
where it will not scorch, for at least 
forty minutes; season with salt, and 
add, immediately after turning in 
the cabbage, an inch of red pepjper 
pod. Let all simmer till the cabbage 
is quite done, and then put in a dish 
with the sausage and meat piled in 
the center, and the cabbage heaped 
around as a border. 

Creamed Cabbage. 

Chou t la CrSme. 
1 Head of Tender White Cabbage. 
A Cream Sauce. 
Take a fine delicate head of white 
cabbage; cut it in quarters and soak 
in cold water for an hour. Then re- 
move all the hard parts, and cut the 
remainder into fine shreds. Put it 
into the stewing pan and pour over 
boiling water enough to cover; sea- 
son with salt and pepper; let it boil 
at least thirty minutes, and then 
drain in a colander. Have ready a 
heated dish; turn the cabbage into 
this and pour over a Cream Sauce. 
(See recipe.) 

Cabbage Sauted With Cream. 

Chou SautS a. la CrSme. 

A Fine Head of White Cabbage. 
1 'Cuptul of Cream or Milk. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Butter. 1 Tablespoonful 
of Flour. 
A Pinch of Black Pepper. Salt to Tasto. 
Prepare the cabbage according to 
•recipe. Blanch in hot water for ten 
"minutes, then ilrain and throw into 
fcold water. Drain again, and chop 
Hip the cabbage and put into a sauce- 
!pan with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter; add the salt to taste, and the 
black pepper. Take a tablespoonful 
of flour and blend well with a little 
milk, and then mix well with a cup 
of cream or milk. Add this to the 
cabbage and mix well, and let all 
teook for three-quarters of an hour 
or an hour, till done; arrange neatly 
on a hot dish and serve. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Chou Farci. ' 

1 Head of Fine White Cabbage. 
1 Dozen Fine Chaurice. 2 Onions. 1 Tomato. 

1 Clove of Garlic. « 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 1 Spoonful of Butter. 

Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a fine head of cabbage. Take 

away the .big, green leaves, and se- 



196 



lect about twelve of the finest and 
nicest of the large white leaves. Put 
them in cold water for about an hour; 
then parboil for about twenty min- 
utes in boiling water. In the mean- 
time, prepare a stuffing with a doz- 
en fine chaurice, one onion (chopped 
fine), a tablespoonful of butter and 
a tomato. Mince the sausage meat 
very fine after taking out of the cas- 
es, and also the onion and tomato. 
Mince, fine one sprig each of thyme, 
parsley and bay leaf; add one square 
inch of finely-minced ham. Put the 
butter in the frying pan, and as it 
browns add the onions; let these 
brown, and add the sausage meat 
and the ham. Mince four or five of 
the tender white leaves of the cab- 
bage very fine and add; then add the 
minced clove of garlic and onion; 
let these brown for five minutes, and 
then let all simmer for about ten 
minutes. Take out, and take each 
leaf by leaf of the cabbage and drain 
dry; lay open on the table and put 
In each leaf equal quantities of the 
stuffing; fold over and close nicely. 
Then take slender strips of bacon 
and lay at the bottom of a wide and 
deep frying pan; place the stuffed 
leaves on top of these, and place 
other strips of bacon on top; cover 
and let thejn cook for a half hour, 
or until the cabbage leaves are very 
tender. Take out of the pan and lay 
in a heated dish and serve very hot. 
The Creoles also have a way of mak- 
ing a nice sauce to serve with these. 
After laying the stuffed cabbage 
leaves in the frying pan, add one 
square inch of ham, minced very fine; 
two carrots, sliced fine; one on- 
ion, chopped very fine, and 
sprigs of thyme, parsley and bay leaf. 
Moisten this with a cup of good bouil- 
lon or water, a gill of White Wine, 
and cover the pan and allow all to 
simmer well with the cabbage. At 
the moment of serving, place the 
cabbage in a heated dish and allow 
the sauce to reduce for five minutes 
longer; then strain it through a 
fine sieve and pour over each stuffed 
leaf of cabbage as It is served. The 
stuffed cabbage leaves may also be 
thrown into boiling water for thirty 
minutes, after being tied together 
well, and served with a. Cream Sauce. 
(See recipe.) 

Stuffed Cabbage AVith Cream Sauce. 

Chou Parci &, la CrSTne. 

1 Fine Head Cabbage. 1 Dozen Fine Cliaurice. 

1 Onion. 

3 Sprigs each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 

1 Square inch of Ham. 

1 Inch of a Red Pepper Pod. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a fine tender head of cab- 
bage. Pick off the outer leaves, and 
let it soak in cold fresh water for 
an hour. Then throw the whole head 
into a pot of boiling water for about 



three-quarters of an hour. In the 
meantime make a stuffing by talcing 
one dozen fine Chaurice, or sausage- 
meat, one oilion, and three sprigs 
each of thyme and parsley, and one 
bay leaf. Mince the herbs and on- 
ion very fine, and add to them one 
square inch of finely minced ham. 
Chop the sausage meat over, and 
mingle this with the ham and herbs, 
and then add the finely minced on- 
ion and one clove of finely minced 
garlic. Mix these well together. 
Season to taste. Take the cabbage 
'out of the water, and opeii carefully 
to the very heart, and put in a tea- 
spoonful of the dressing. Fold over 
this two or three leaves, and then 
insert the mixture in between anoth- 
er layer of leaves, and so continue 
until each layer of leaves has been 
nicely stuffed. Press all firmly to- 
gether, and then tie in the large 
leaves, which you will have boiled 
with the cabbage head. Put it into 
the kettle of boiling -water, and add 
a little salt and two inches of a red 
pepper pod, thyme, parsley and bay 
leaf. Let it boil for two hours. When 
done carefully untie the larger leaves 
in which you have cooked the cab- 
bage, and lay the head in a well- 
■heated dish. Pour over all a Cream 
Sauce, and serve hot. (See Cream 
Sauce.) 

SAUERKRAUT. 

Chou Groflte. 

1 Fine Head of Cabbage. 1 Pint of Vinegar, 
1 Bottle of White Wine. 

1 Glass of Brandy or Whisky. 
Salt in Sufficient Quantity to Allow 3 Ounces 

for each Layer of Cabbage, 

The French learned how to eat 
Sauerkraut from the Germans, but 
the ancient French ouisiniSres held 
that the French adaptation, Chou- 
Croilte, w^as a very poor way indeed 
of expressing what the German term 
Sauerkraut intends to convey. The 
Creoles, while not overfond of Sauer- 
kraut, nevertheless know how to 
make it, and occasionally cook it af- 
ter ol French methods. 

To prepare Chou-Crofite, take a 
large head of cabbage, and take off 
the green leaves. Shred the cabbage 
into fine pieces, of about five inches 
long and one wide. Then get an 
earthern vessel or a keg, an-d line 
the bottom and sides with the green 
leaves of the cabbage Put in a layer 
of salt, of about three ounces, and 
lay over this a layer of cabbage 
leaves of about three inches in thick- 
ness. Cover again with a layer of 
salt, and pound down well, and so 
continue until you have used up the 
cabbage. Pour over this sufficient 
vinegar to cover, and also, if pos- 
sible, a bottle of White Wine and a 
glass of brandy or whisky. Take 
some boards or the cover of the keg 
and line them with cabbage leaves, 



197 



and cover the keg closely. Put the 
cover on the keg, or the board over 
the bowl, Tjrith a fifteen-pound weight 
on top. Set it in a place of even 
moderate temperature. Bore a hole 
in the bottom of the keg, and insert 
a piece of wood. When the cabbage 
begins to ferment, take the piece of 
wood out, and let the liquor from the 
fermentation flow through this canal. 
This will be in about four or flvo 
days. After this first operation open 
the keg and renew the vinegar and 
wine, skimming the fermentation 
from the top, and so continue until 
the cabbage is clear and without 
odor. The Chou-Croute, should be 
placed in a cool place. When ready 
to use, take it out and let it soak 
for two or three hours in cool fresh 
water, and when quite fresh-looking 
put it into a saucepan and cook 
as you would cabbage, with salt 
meat, pork, sausage or corned beef. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Choux-Fleurs. 

Cauliflower may be either boiled 
and served with various sauces or 
made into that delightful dish, "Cau- 
liflower au Gratin." 

Boiled Cauliflovrer, Crenm Sauce. 

Choux-Pleurs a, la Crfime. 

2 Medium-Sized Cauliflowers. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
A Cream S^auce. 2 Lemons Gut in Quarters. 
To boil the cauliflower, pick off the 
outer leaves, leaving only the one 
delicate row near the bottom of the 
flowerets!. Cut the stem close to the 
flowerets. Wash the cauliflower 
well in cold fresh water, and then 
soak, with the head downwards, 
about twenty minutes, to drain off 
all possible insects. Have ready a 
pot of boiliag water. Take a nice, 
clean piece of cheesecloth, and tie 
the cauliflower in it, to prevent 
breaking while boiling. Put the cauli- 
flower in the kettle of boiling wa- 
ter, with the stem downwards. Add 
a teaspoonful of salt, and cover the 
kettle. Let the cauliflower boil from 
thirty to forty minutes, according to 
size, or until the vegetable. is ten- 
der. When cooked, lift it gently out 
by the cheesecloth, untie and set it 
In a dish, stem downward. Pour 
over it a Cream Sauce and serve hot. 
Place on each plate, when serving, 
a quarter of a lemon, nicely cut. 

CanliflOTver BoUea Wltli Butter. 

Chou-Fleur Bouilli au Beurre. 
2 Medium-Sized Cauliflowers. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
A Tablcspoonful of Salt. A Pinch of Pepper. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 
Prepare the cauliflower as in re- 
cipe Boiled Cauliflower, Cream Sauce. 
After picking and washing thorough- 



ly put in a saucepan and cover with 
cold water. Add the salt and pep- 
per and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Let it cook for a half hour and then 
take the cauliflower from the pan and 
drain through a colander. Place 
them on a dish and add a sauce made 
of one tablespoonful of butter, one 
of vinegar and a dash of salt and 
pepper, all mixed thoroughly, and 
serve hot. 

Cauliflower With "Wliite Sauce. 

Choux-Fleurs a la Sauce Blanche ou 
au Jus. 

1 Large or 2 Small CaullflOTvers. 

A Teaspoonful of Salt. 
A White Sauce or Sauce AUemande. 
Separate the cauliflower, piece by 
piece, having taken off the outer 
leaves and cut off the rough stalk. 
Place them in a pot of boiling wa- 
ter, with a teaspoonful of salt, and 
let them boil rapidly for about half 
an hour, till tbe stalks are tender. 
When done, take them out gently 
with a skimmer, that you may not 
Ijreak them. Place in a bowl and pour 
over a Sauce Blanche or Sauce Al- 
lemande. 

Cauliflower prepared in this man- 
ner may be served with a HoUan- 
daise Sauce. 

I 
Cauliflower & la Vlnaii^ette. 

Choux-Fleurs a, la Vinaigrette. 

1 Large or 2 Mediim-Sized CanUflowers. 
1 Tatlespoonful of Vinegar. 
Sal', and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the cauliflower as above, and 
•serve "a la Vinaigrette," that is, 
with vinegar, pepper and salt. This 
is a common and pleasant way that 
the Creoles have of serving the veg- 
etable. 

CanlifloweF a la Mattre d'Hotel. 

Choux-Pleurs a la Maltre d'Hotel. 

1 Large or 2 Medium-Sized Cauliflowers. 
■ 1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
A Sauce a la Maltre d'Hotel. 
Boil the cauliflower whole, as in 
the first recipe. Bring them to the 
table whole, like blooming flower- 
ets, in a dish nicely garnished, and 
ser\'e with a Sauce a la Maltre d'Ho- 
tel and lemon cut in quarters. 

Culiflower au Gratin. 

Choux-Fleurs au Gratin. 

1 Ord'nary-Si.zcd Head of Cauliflower. 

1 Pint of Cream. 

|^ Pint of Grated Parmesan and Gruyere 

Cheese, Mixed. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Flour. 

Boil the cauliflower as in the first 

recipe. When boiled, take it off the 

Are and take out of the cheese- 



198 



cloth in which it was enveloped. Let 
It cool. Put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter into the frying: pan, and as It 
melts add a tablespoonful of flour. 
Let these .blend nicely, without 
browning, and add Immediately half 
a pint of milk and half a pint of 
grated Parmesan or Gruyfire cheese. 
Mix this thoroughly in the sauce, and 
let it cook well for about ten min- 
utes. Put the cauliflower in a pan, 
or the dish in which it is to be 
served, having greased the dish with 
butter. Take some grated cheese, 
sprinkle well over the cauliflower, 
and then cover the cauliflower with 
the sauce, forcing it down into every 
nook and crevice. When these crev- 
ices are full, and the cauliflower 
seems to have absorbed all, wipe the 
edges and all around the dish with 
a napkin. Then add grated bread 
crumbs, sprinkling them over the 
cauliflower; dot it in about a dozen 
places with little bits of butter. Set 
It in the oven, let it brown, and serve 
hot. Let it bake about twenty min- 
utes, or until brown. 

CARROTS. 

Des Garottes. 

Carrots are among the most im- 
portant of the vegetables used in 
seasoning. They enter largely Into 
the making of soups, daubes, stews, 
etc., giving to all a delightful flavor, 
which no other vegetable can. Eaten 
"au jus" or in their natural state, 
they may be stewed, fried or smoth- 
ered. Any one of these dishes makes 
a delightful and appetizing entrge. 

Stewed Carrots. 

Garottes S. la Cr6me. 

i Carrots of Good Size. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Floor, 

% Pint of Milk. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scrape the carrots and throw them 
Into cold water for about a quarter 
of an hour. Then put them In a 
saucepan, and cover with boiling wa- 
ter. Add the salt, and let them cook 
for an hour and a half, boiling stead- 
ily. After this time expires, take 
them out and drain off all water. 
Then cut neatly into one-half Inch 
dice pieces, or slice thin. Put a ta- 
blespoonful of butter in the frying 
pan, and add the flour, blending well, 
but without browning. Then add the 
milk, and let it simmer to a rich 
cream sauce. Add the carrots to this, 
and let them siminer gently for about 
twenty minutes. Then add a little 
chopped parsleir and sugar, and serve 
hot. 



Carrots ft la Mattre d'Hotel. 

Garottes a. la Maitre d'Hotel. 

i Good-Sized Carrots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Scrape the carrots and boil them 
at the same time that you are mak- 
ing your soup, or bouillon, leaving 
them whole. When done and ready 
to serve, skim out of the soup, and 
place In a dish. Cut them Into pieces, 
more or less large, and then place 
them in a frying pan with a table- 
spoonful of butter, minced parsley, 
thyme, bay leaf. Add salt and pep- 
per to taste, and when they have 
cooked for about ten or fifteen min- 
utes pour over a Sauce t la Maitre 
d'Hotel, and serve hot. The carrots 
may also be simply boiled, seasoned, 
and served with a Drawn Butter 
Sauce. 

Carrots & la Ijyonnalse. 

Garottes a. la Lyonnalse. 

3 Carrots. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Onion, Minced Very Fine. 
Salt, Pepper, Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Boil the carrots according to re- 
cipe given above, and then cut into 
thin siloes. Fry an onion in butter, 
add the carrots. Sprinkle well with 
salt and pepper, and add minced 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf. Fry ten 
minutes, and serve hot. 

Carrots SautSs a la Criole. 

Garottes Sautfees a, la Creole. 

9 Nice Tender Carrots. 1 Tomato. 
1 Square Inch Ham. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

6 Fine Ghaurlce or Sausages. 

3 Shallots. 1 Onion. -^ Pint of Bouillon. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Gill White Wine. 

Thyme, Parsley, Bay IJeaf. % CIOTe Garlic. 

Boil the carrots for one hour and 
a half. Then cut Into dice or nice 
slices. Put the butter in the sauce- 
pan, and add the onions, minced very 
fine, and the shallots, greens and 
whites. Let these brown for a few 
minutes, and then add the ha,lf square 
Inch of ham and three Ghaurlce whole. 
Let these simmer for three minutes, 
and add the minced herbs. Then add 
the tomato and its Juice, mincing it 
Well. Let all simmer for three min- 
utes more, till the tomato has 
browned, and add a half pint of 
■bouillon and one gill of White Wine. 
If you can afford it. Let all this sim- 
mer for ten minutes, and then add 
the carrots, nicely seasoned. Stir 
well. Cover and let them simmer for 
about half an hour. Serve hot. This 
Is a true dish of Carrots 3, la Creole. 
Eat with Daube, Roast, etc. 



199 



CELERY. 

Du Ceieri. 
Celery may be eaten "au naturel," 
that Is in Its natural state; or in 
salad, or It may be cooked. When 
cooked, it is best a. la CrSme, or in a 
Purge of Celery. (See recipe.) 

Celery an Naturel. 

Cfelerl au Naturel. 

Scrape and wash the celery nicely. 
Then cut off the long outer leaves, 
leaving the tips nice and crisp. Set 
in a celery glass or bowl, with about 
one inch of salt and water, and serve 
as an appetizer, or hors d'oeuvre, at 
the beginning of the meal. 

Celery makes a pretty decoration 
for any table. The leaves that have 
been cut offl should be saved and 
used as garnishes, and also for sea- 
soning. 

Creamed Celery, 

CSleri a. la CrSme. 

1 Pint of Cut Celery. 

1 Cupful of Milk or Craam. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flonr. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut fresh, crisp celery into pieces 
of an inch, until you have a pint. 
Wash thoroughly, and put in boiling 
water and cook until tender, which 
will be in about twenty-five minutes 
or a half hour. Then put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan, and 
add the flour, blending without al- 
lowing to brown. When perfectly 
smooth, add the cream or milk, and 
let it come to a boil. Then add salt 
and pepper to taste. Drain out the 
celery, and add it to the sauce, and 
stir gently, letting it cook twenty 
minutes longer. Serve hot. The dish 
should be kept covered while cook- 
ing. 

Celery root and the green stalks of 
the celery, which you do not serve at 
table, may also be utilized in this 
way, making a most acceptable and 
palatable dish. 

Celery & I'Espagnole. 
C61eri a. I'Espagnole. 

4 Stalks of Celery. 2 Hara-BoUed Eggs. 

1 Onion. 

Salt and Pepper and 1 Tablespoonful Vinegar. 

This is a form of celery salad. 
Wash and scrape the celery well, and 
then chop it fine. Chop an onion 
very flne, and also several sprigs of 
parsley. Take a hard-boiled egg and 
cut flne. Mix all these together, pour 
over a little Tarragon vinegar and 
oil, if desired, and serve as a salad. 
Celery Salad. 
Ceieri en Salade 

See recipe for Celery Salad. 

Celery aux Petit Pols. 

C^leri aux Petit Pois. 

6 Stalks of Celery. 1 Egg. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Floor. 

1 Cup of Milk or Boaillon. 



Cut the celery into pieces and 
"blanch and boil for about thirty min- 
utes. Then drain. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter into a saucepan, and 
add the flour, blending without 
browning. Add the milk and salt 
and pepper to taste. When it begins 
to boil add the chopped celery. Let 
all simmer for twenty minutes long- 
er, and then take off the Are and add 
the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Sea- 
son again to taste, and serve. Bouil- 
lon or water may be substituted for 
the milk. 

Celery With Beef's Marrow 

Ceieri a, la Moelle de Boeuf. 

3 Pine Heads of Celery. 2 Dozen Slices of 
Beef's Marrow. 
1 Pint of Madeira Sauce. 
Cut off the green leaves of the 
celery and pare nicely. Wash well 
and drain. Then tie each head near 
the end where the green portion has 
been taken away. Put them into 
"boiling salted water and let them 
blanch for ten minutes. Take out of 
the water and drain through a col- 
ander. Make one pint of Ma- 
deira Sauce (see recipe), add the 
celery to this and let it cook 
for a quarter of an hour. Then 
take the celery, place on a dish and 
untie. Add to the sauce in the sauce- 
pan about two dozen slices of beef 
marrow cut half an inch thick; cook 
for two minutes; do not allow the 
marrow to break, put in the dish 
with the celery, pour the sauce over 
and serve hot. 

Celery Patties. 
PatSs de C61erl. ' 

The Hearts of 3 Heads of Celery. H Cupful 

of Grated Ham. 
y^ Cupful of Cream. % Cup of Fine Bread 
Crumbs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the celery hearts till tender, 
then drain and pound to a paste, 
^th a cupful each of grated ham, 
Tream and fine bread crumbs; season 
to taste with salt and pepper and 
add a tablespoonful of butter. Steam 
the mixture till it thickens, then fill 
smaU patty cases with it and serve 
hot. 

Celery Fritters. 

Beignets de C61eri. 

3 Heads of Celery. 1 Tablespoonful of Botter. 

2 Ounces of Parmesan Cheese. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the celery into stalks thr«e 

inches long, tie the stalks m bundles 

allowing three to a bundle; boil till 

fendTr il salted water, then take out; 

remove the strings and drain; season 

with salt and pepper, and the grated 

Parmesan cheese. Dip in batter and 

fry and serve as a vegetable. 



200 



CEPS. 

Ceps. 
Ceps the strongly flavored, flat- 
headed mushrooms preserved in cans 
and imported to this country. They 
are much affected by Creole epicures. 
They are quite expensive, and are. 
therefore, not as generally used in 
household cookery as the less expen- 
sive mushroom. 

Ceps on Tonst. 

Ceps sur CanapSs. 

3 Ceps. The Juice of 1 Tjemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Drain the Ceps from their oil, slice 
nicely and fry lightly in a frying pan. 
When thoroughly heated take from 
the pan, sprinkle lightly with chopped 
parsley and lemon juice, , arrange 
■ daintily on slices of toast and send 
to the table hot. 

Stevred Ceps, 

Ceps Sautfis. 
3 Ceps. 1 Onion, Minced Fine. 1 Clove of 

Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Tablespoonful 

of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

14 Cup of Milk. 

Drain the Ceps from their oil; 

slice nicely; put a tablespoonful of 

butter in a saucepan, add the minced 

onion and the clove of garlic minced 

very fine; moisten with a half cup of 

milk, let the mixture simmer gently 

for twenty minutes, then serve the 

Ceps on slices of toast with the sauce 

poured around. 

Broiled Ceps on Toast. 

Ceps GrillSs sur Canapes. 

3 Ceps. % Pint of Sauce a. la Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. Sliced Lemon and 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Drain the Ceps from their oil; 
season well with salt and pepper; 
roll in fresh bread crumbs finely 
grated, broil nicely on double broiler, 
arrange nicely on toast. Pour over 
each slice some of the Sauce 9. la 
Maitre d'Hotel, garnish nicely with 
sliced lemon and serve hot. 

CHERVIL. 

Cerfeuil. 

Chervil is an aromatic plant, re- 
sembling parsley, and much used for 
seasonings, especially in oyster soups. 
It is also considered a delightful 
salad herb, and is often cut and 
mixed between lettuce, and served 
as a salad. It is found in small 
quantities, chopped, in nearly all sal- 
ads prepared to suit the taste of epi- 
cures. It is a plant little known in 
the North, but in this section there 
Is scarcely a garden where it is not 



found. It is especially used by the 
'Creoles as a flavoring for breakfast 
salads, a few leaves imparting a de- 
lightful flavor. 

CHESTNUTS. 

Marrons. 
Chestnuts are much used by the 
Creoles in stuffing for poultry and 
■game. They are also stewed, boiled 
or made into purges. (See recipe 
Pur6e de Marrons.) 

' SteTved Chestnuts. 

Marrons Sautfies. 

1 Pint of Chestnuts. 1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful Flour. 1 Tablespoonful Butter, 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the chestnuts, and then throw 
them into a saucepan of boiling wa- 
ter for twenty minutes. Take them 
out, and remove the dark outer skin. 
Remove the boiling water in the 
saucepan, and add the chestnuts and 
let them cook for twenty minutes 
more, or until they may be easily 
pierced with a fork. Then take them 
"out and drain, and put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a saucepan. Add the 
flour. Blend gradually, without 
browning. Add the pint of milk and 
then add the chestnuts, and let all 
cook for fifteen minutes longer. Sea- 
son to taste. 

Cbestnnts With Brown Snnee. 

Marrons Sautes a, la Sauce Bspagnole. 

1 Pint of Chestnuts. 1 Pint of Brown Sauce. 
The chestnuts may be cooked in 
the same manner as Stewed Chest- 
nuts, as far as boiling. Then make 
a Brown Sauce (see Sauce Espagnole) 
add the chestnuts to it, saut6 for fif- 
teen minutes longer, letting all sim- 
mer gently, and serve hot. 

Boiled Chestnuts. 

Marrons Bouillis 9. la Sauce Maitre 
d'Hotel. 

1 Pint of Chestnuts. 1 Pint of Sauce a la 
Maitre d'Hotel. 
Prepare and boil the chestnuts ac- 
cording to above directions. "When 
done, drain and press through a col- 
ander. The chestnuts must be cooked 
very soft for this dish. Add a Drawn 
Butter Sauce, and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper or a Sauce a. la Maitre 
d'Hotel, and serve as an entr§e, like 
mashed potatoes. 

CHIVES. 

Cives. 
Chives are small bulbous plants of 
the onion tribe.The leaves are long 
and slender and impart a very pleas- 
ant flavor to soups, salads, etc. Chives 
are especially used in seasoning 
stews of rabbits and hare, hence, the 
name "Civet," applied to these stews 
in particular, on account of the high 
seasoning.. 



201 



COL. LARDS. 

This is a variety- of cabbage which 
does not head, but the leaves are 
cooked and served ih the same manr 
her as other cabbage. But they are 
served, principally as "greens," boiled 
with a piece of salt meat. This veg- 
etable is not as popular now in New 
Orleans as it was in former years. 

CORN. 

Du Mai's. 

Corn in various ways is served on 
the Creole tables. The first young 
corn in the market is highly prized, 
but in a few days there is such an 
over-abundance that it can be had 
all summer and late in the fall at 
prices within the reach of all. There 
is not a healthier or more nutritious 
vegetable. The following are some 
of the dainty ways of preparing this 
delightful dish: 

Corn on the Cob. 

£pis de Mais Bouillis. 

6 Ears of Corn. 2 Quarts of Boiling Water; 

1 TaUespoonful ot Salt. 

Only young and tender corn should 
be boiled. Have ready a pot of boil- 
ing water. Remove the green outside 
husks and the silk, as far as pos- 
sible. Put the corn into the kettle 
of boiling water, and let it boil rap- 
idly twenty or thirty minutes, if the 
ears are large. More than this will 
cause the corn to lose its sweet- 
ness. Serve immediately after re- 
moving again all the silk, which 
easily comes .to the surface in boil- 
ing. Heap the corn on a platter, and 
serve to each person an eat-, with a 
small butter plate of butter,, pep- 
per and salt. 

Greea Com, Planter's Style. 

Ma'is Tendre a. I'Habitant. 

6 Ears of Corn. 
2 Quarts of Boiling Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 
Husk the corn and pull off the 
silk, leaving one layer of leaves 
close to the kernels; put to cook in 
cold water. When the water begins 
to boil, after ten minutes, add the 
salt, but do not let the corn boil 
longer than five minutes after add- 
ing the salt, as boiling longer will 
harden it. Corn cooked in this man- 
ner preserves its sweetness and is 
most palatable and tender. 

Roasted Corn. 

Ma'is Rotis. 
Place the ears of corn which have 
not been removed from the husks in 
a hot oven, or, better still, if you 
can, in hot ashes, and let them roast 
for a half hour or more, until ten- 
der. Then take out of the oven or 
hot ashes and remove the husks and 
silk and serve in the same manner 
as boiled corn. 



Creamed Com. 

Mais a, la Cr6me. 
8 Fine Ears of Corn. 1 Pint of Milk Cream. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Vi Spoonful of Black Pepper. 
1 Dessertspoonful Butter. 
Score the corn down the center of 
each row of grains, and then cut 
from the cob. -With the knife press 
out all the pulp from the cob, leav- 
ing the hull on the cob. Set a por- 
celain or agate saucepan on the fire, 
and put into, this the corn cobs, which 
you will have cut into pieces. Cover 
with water, and let them boil until 
you have extracted all the Juices. 
■When the liquid is reduced to about 
one pint, add the corn, and let it boil 
for about twenty minutes. Then stir 
in a quarter of a pint of milk, sea- 
son with salt and pepper to taste, 
add a teaspoonful of butter, and serve 
hot. Or, if you can afford it, boil the 
corn in the milk, using at least one 
pint, having first added a half cup 
of the water -in 'whiofa the corn cobs 
were boiled. Let all simmer gently 
for about a half hour, and then add 
salt and pepper to taste, and a spoon- 
ful of butter, and serve. Some like 
the addition of a teaspoonful of su- 
gar, but this is a matter of taste. 

Corn Sauted AVlth Batter. 

Ma'is Tendre Sautg au Beurre. 

' 8 Fine Ears of Com. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
1 Cup of Milk er Water. 

Boil the corn, and then cut the 
grains from the cob with a sharp 
knife. Put in a saucepan and add 
one tablespoonful of butter; add the 
milk, and season nicely to taste. Let 
the corn boil for about ten minutes 
and serve hot. 

Corn Pudding. 

' Ponding de Ma'is. 

1 Dozen Ears of Tender Corn. 1 Quart Milk. 

4 Eggs. ' 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of White Sugar. 

Score the corn down each row of 
grains, and grate it from the cob. 
Beat the whites of the egg and tHe 
yolks separately. After beating the 
yolks, add them to the sugar and but- 
ter, which you will have rubbed well 
together. Beat all this very light, 
and then add the milk and a half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Blend well, and 
add the grated corn. Beat again, 
and blend thoroughly, and add .the 
v/hites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Stir in well, and set the mix- 
ture in the oven with a piece of 
brown paper on top. Bake slowly 
for about an hour, and serve hot. 
Corn thus prepared is delicious; it Is 
served with daube or roast filet of 
beef, etc. 



202- 



Baked Corn ft la CrSme. 

Mais Rotl a, la Crgme. 

1 Dozen Large Ears of Young Com. 

1 Pint of Milk. 4 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

^ Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

1 Dessertspoonful of Butter. 

Score the ears of corn down each 
row with a knife, and then cut from 
the cob. With the knife press out all 
the pulp and corn juice, leaving the 
hulls in the cob. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs well, and then add the corn. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Add melted butter, and then add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Stir in carefully, and place 
the whole in a dish, which you will 
have buttered. Set in the oven and 
bake for an hour, slowly at first, 
more rapidly towards the end of the 
last fifteen minutes. Serve with 
roast beef, veal or lamb. 

Fried Corn. 

Mais Frit. 

1 Dozen Bars Young, Tender Green Corn. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard, 

Salt and Pepper to Taste, 1 Minced Onion. 

Score the corn along each row, and 
then cut from the cob with a knife. 
Press out all the pulp and corn juice 
from the cob. Mix all and season 
well with salt and pepper. J^Iince 
the onion fine, and blend with the 
lard, . which you will have put into 
the frying pari. Add the corn when 
the onions begin to brown slightly, 
and keep stirring and stirring till the 
grain is cooked, which will be in 
about fifteen or twenty minutes. This 
Is a very nice breakfast dish or din- 
ner entrfie. 

Com Sonp, 

Puree de Mais. 

This 13 a delightful summer soup in 
New Orleans. (See recipe Creole Sum- 
mer Soup.) 

Corn Fritters, 

Beignets de Mais. 

6 Ears of Corn. 14 Pint of Milk. 1 Egg. 

% Cup of Flour. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Grate the corn. Then beat the egg 
well, whites and yolks together, and 
by degrees add the corn, beating in 
thoroughly and very hard. Add a ta- 
blespoonful of melted butter, and 
then stir in the milk. Add a table- 
spoonful of flour, or just sufficient to 
thicken and bind, and then fry like 
fritters. In boiling lard, dropping in 
a deep spoonful at a time. Serve 
hot. 



Corn Cakes. 

Gateaux de Mais. 

6 Ears of Corn. % Pint of Milk. 

1 Egg. V2 Cup of Flour. 1 Tablespoonful 

of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the batter in exactly the 

same manner as above, and bake on a 

griddle like batter cakes, and serve 

hot, with generous layers of butter 

between. These cakes are delicious. 

Corn and Tomatoes. 

Mais Sautfis aux Tomates. 

1 Pint of Corn, Cut from the Cob. 

1 Pint of Fresh Tomatoes, Peeled and 

Chopped. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Sprigs Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf, 

Place the butter in a frying pan, 
and when it heats well without 
browning, add the tomatoes. Let them 
simmer for about five nainutes, stir- 
ring well, and then add the minced 
herbs. Let these stew for three min- 
utes, and add the corn, which has 
been scored and cut from the cob. 
Mix all thoroughly. Add salt and 
pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful 
of sugar, or less, according to taste. 
Let all stew or saut6 for about twen- 
ty minutes, and then stir in a tea- 
spoonful more of butter. Serve hot, 
after cooking ten minutes longer. 
Serve with roast meats or grillades 
Or daube. 

Com Salad. 

Mache ou Doucette. 

This is a delicious variety of corn, 
and is much used for salads during 
the winter and early spring months 
in New Orleans. The Corn Salad, for 
that is the name given to the vege- 
table, is boiled . and then served "k 
la Vinaigrette," that is, with vinegar 
salt and pepper, or with a plain 
French Dressing; or with beets, 
sliced. Still again, it is served with 
hard-boiled eggs. (See recipe.) 

CRKSS. 

Cresson. 

This is one of the most popular 
Creole winter and spring salad plants 
and is also considered a great appe- 
tizer, being served as an hors 
d'oeuvre, and eaten simply with salt. 
As a salad it is most cooling, re- 
freshing and healthy. We have two 
varieties, the broad-leaved winter 
"Curled or Pepper Grass," and the 
"Water Cress." The latter can only 
be planted by the side of running wa- 
ter, or near springs. It is delicious. 
It is found all through the Louisi- 
ana forests, along the streams espe- 
cially in the vicinity of Abita Springs 
and Covington. 



203 



CUCUMBER. 

Conoombre. 

The Creoles hold, and justly, that 
the only proper way to eat a cu- 
cumber is "en salade." No fashion- 
able method of cooking this vege- 
table can ever make up for the del- 
icate flavor that has been destroyed 
• by submitting it to heat. 

Cucumbers are best when freshly 
picked from the vine. When they 
are thrown around the market for a 
number of days and become whited 
they are not fit for table use. Cu- 
cumbers are extensively used by the 
Creoles for salad and pickling pur- 
poses. For salad preparations, see 
special recipes under Chapter on Sal- 
ads. The word "Gherkin" is applied 
to all kinds of pickled cucumbers; 
properly, however, the terms should 
be applied to the small prickly va- 
riety. Cucumbers, besides being 
served as salads and pickles, are used 
as relishes and as a garnish. 

Cncnmbers as a Relish, 

Concombres Comme Hors d'Oeuvres. 
i Fine Cucumbers. A French Salad Dressing. 

Wash the cucumbers, cut off the bit- 
ter end, and pare the skin to a suf- 
ficient depth to remove the green 
portion. Then score them lengthwise 
with a table fork. Put them into a 
salad earthen bowl and sprinkle with 
salt. Set in an ice box for three 
hours; then cut into delicate slices 
and serve with a French Salad Dress- 
ing, the dressing being served in a 
separate dish. In preparing cucum- 
,bers to serve as a relish with fish, 
this is the proper mode of prepara- 
tion. 

CncmnbeTs as a Garnish. 

Concombres Comme Garniture. 

3 Fine Cucumbers. 

1 TaWespoonful of Vinegar. 1 Large Onion. 

Peel and slice three fine cucum- 
bers, and then make a marinade of 
one teaspoonful of sAlt, one of black 
pepper and a tablespoonful of vin- 
egar. Add one finely-sliced onion. 
Let the cucumbers marinate in this 
for an hour, and then drain and use 
as a garnish for cold meats, espe- 
cially cold Bouilli. 

CURRT. 

Karl. 

Curry is a condiment composed of 
pulverized Cayenne pepper,- coriander 
seed, timeric, onions, garlic, ginger 
root, cloves cinnamon oardamon and 
salt, all pulverized together and thor- 
oughly mixed. It is extensively used 
In the making of stews of fish meats 
and some vegetables. 

DAlVDBIilOlV. 
Dent-aerLion. 

The Creoles long ago discovered the 
possibilities of the dandelion under 



cultivation. The wild dandelion, as 
all know, is a common and hardy 
perennial plant. It is found in lux- 
uriance in the Louisiana meadows 
and pastures. The deeply-notched 
leaves closely resembling chicoree, 
so extensively used as a salad and 
as a green. Through cultivation, the 
dandelion is now numbered among 
the best of the early spring salads. 
(For recipe for Dandelion Salad, see 
Chapter on Salads.) 

Dandelion Greens. 

Dent-de-Lion Bouilli. 

1 Quart of Dandelion Greens. 
A Ham Sbilfik. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter, Salt and Pepper 
to Taste. 

Cut off the coarse roots; wash the 
leaves thoroughly; steep in salt and 
water for five hours to remove the 
bitterness. Boil a ham shank for 
two hours, throw in the dandelions, 
and cook gently for forty-five min- 
utes; then drain, chop fine; season 
with butter, pepper and salt. Mince 
the ham very fine and sprinkle over 
the greens; spread ov.er sliced hard- 
boiled eggs and serve hot. 

EGGPLANTS. 

Des Auberfilnes. 
This is one of our most esteemed 
and useful vegetables, and is served 
in the following delightful ways: 

Stuffed Eggplant. 

Aubergines Farcies. 

6 Eggplants of Good Size. 

1% Gups of Bread, Wet and Squeezed. 

1 Tomato. 1 Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Cut the eggplant In the middle, and 
put to boil in cold water for about 
half an hour, or until tender. Then 
take out of the water and set to 
cool. When quite cool, take out the 
beeds and throw away. Then scoop 
out carefully the soft meat of the 
'eggplant, and leave the skins un- 
•broken. Set these skins carefully 
aside. Chop the soft eggplant fine, 
a.nd then wet and squeeze one and a 
ha,lf cups of bread. Chop the onion 
arid tomato fine, and mince the herbs 
•and garlic very fine. Season the egg- 
'plant well with salt and pepper. Put 
the butter in the frying pan (use a 
■tablespoonful of lard, if you have not 
the butter), and brown the onion in 
It slightly. Then add the chopped to- 
mato and Its juice, and let this fry 
for four or five minutes. Then add 
the minced herbs and the clove of 
garlic, and almost immediately the 
chopped eggplant. Then add the 
bread at once, and mix all well. Sea- 
son again to taste, and let all fry for 
about five minutes. Take off and fill 
the shells with the stuffing, sprinkle 



204 



the top lightly with bread crumbs, 
dot with butter, and set in the oven 
to bake to a nice brown. 
Fried Eggplant 
Aubergines Frites. 
2 Toung Eggplants. 2 Eggs. 
Flour to Make a Light Batter. 
2 Tablespoontuls of Lard. 
Slice the eggplants very thin, par- 
ing them if large, and leaving the 
skin on if very young and tender. 
Make a light batter with the eggs 
and flour. Season the eggplant well 
with salt and pepper. Soak the slices 
in the batter. Lift out and fry in 
the boiling lard. When done on one 
side, turn on the other with a cake 
turner. Remove the eggplants. Drain 
them on brown paper In the mouth of 
the oven, and serve hot on a flat and 
open dish or platter. 

Eggplant Fritters. 

Aubergines en Beignets ou au Na- 
tural. 

2 Young Eggplants. % Pint of Milk. 

Salt and Pepper. Flour. 

- Slice the eggplants nicely and thin. 
Boll them in milk in which you have 
put salt and pepper to taste. Pass 
the eggplant in flour, dusting light- 
ly, and fry in boiling lard. The egg- 
plant must float in the lard. Drain 
on brown paper in the mouth of the 
oven^.and serve hot. 

SteTved Eggplant. 

Aubergines a. la Cr§ole. 

3 Eggplants. % Can of Tomatoes. 

1 Square Incli of Ham. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 2 Onions. 

1 ^ablespoonful ' of Butter. Salt and Pepper 

to Taste. 
, Parboil the eggplant for about thir- 
ty minutes. Take out of the boiling 
water and let cool slightly. Then 
skin and cut into pieces half an inch 
square. Chop two onions very fine. 
Take one tablespoonful of butter, 
and brown the onion in it. As it 
browns, add half a can of tomatoes, 
or six fresh, chopped flne. Add the 
square inch of ham, chopped very 
flne. Add then two cloves of garlic, 
minced very flne, and season with salt 
and pepper to taste. Let this sim- 
mer for three or four minutes, and 
then add the eggplant sufflcierit to 
make a pound. Let all cook, smoth- 
ering slowly and well, keeping tight- 
ly covered, and stirring bften to pre- 
vent burning. Season again to taste. 
After it has cooked for half an hour 
serve very hot. This is a splendid 
dish, and was first the production of 
a Creole ouisini&re. 

ENDIVES. 

De la Chioorge. 

Endive, or Chicorfie, is served both 
as a salad plant and as a vegetable. 



It is very popular among the CreoleB, 
and is much cultivated for the mar- 
ket, especially for summer use. Chic 
or6e as a salad is served in exactly 
the same manner as Lettuce Salad; 
(See recipe under chapter on Salads.) 

Endive Witb Cream Sauce. 

Chicorge, Sauce a, la CrSme. 

3 Heads of Chicory. 4 Tablespoontuls Butter. 

2 Glasses of Cream or Milk. 
A Pinch of Nutmeg. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Pick nicely three heads of Chicorfie 
casting away all the outer green 
leaves. Then wash the heads care- 
fully in fresh cold water; drain and 
wash again, and blanch for ten min- 
utes in boiling salted water; remove 
and throw into cold water to cool. 
Then drain of all the water, and chop 
the Chicorfie very flne. Put in a 
saucepan with four tablespoonfuls of 
butter and let cook for 3, quarter of 
an hour. Pour two glassfuls of milk 
•or rich cream over it; add a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix all thoroughly together 
for flve minutes on the stove; then 
remove, put In a dlsjh, .garnish nicely 
with Croutons fried in butter, and 
serve hot. 

Endives With Gravy. 

ChicorSe au Jus. 

4 Heads of Chicory. 1 Onion. 1 Carrot 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

Vi Ponnd of Bacon. Salt and Pepper to' Taste. 

1 Pint of Veal or Chicken Consomme. 

Clean and pick the Chicorge well, 
pare off all the outer leaves, and 
wash the heads well in several wa- 
ters. Then drain" and put to blanch 
in salted water for ten minutes; At 
th-e end of this time, throw them in 
the cold water to cool; drain and out 
into quarters. Put the piece of ba- 
con in the bottom of a sautolre on 
B-tewpan, and add an onion and car- 
rot and herb bouquet, minced very 
fine. Lay the Chicorge on top of this, 
beason with a teaspoonful of salt and 
a half teaspoonful of black pepper, 
and cover with a buttered paper. 
Then set the sautoire In the oven, 
and let the Chicorfie cook for ten 
minutes, when it will be a golden 
brown. Moisten with half a pint of 
veal or chicken consomm6, cover and 
again set in the oven for thirty min- 
utes. At this point it will be ready 
'to serve. Arrange the Chicorge on 
a hot dish; strain the sauce, pour 
over and serve. 

GARLIC. 

De I'Ail. 

Garlic is a great Creole vegetable, 
a bulbous-rooted plant, with a strong 
penetrating odor, and highly es- 
teemed as a flavoring for soups, 
stews, roasts and various other dish- 
es. Garlic is a staple product of th^ 



205 



lower Louisiana parishes, and is 
raised for home consumption and for 
shipping. More garlic is grown and 
used in Louisiana than in all the 
other states together. It is culti- 
vated like the onion. In the spring 
the bulbs are taken up and plaited 
together in long strings. One of these 
strings contains from fifty to sixty 
heads in double rows. They are then 
hung up in a dry, airy place, or stored 
away. They will keep from six to 
eight months. Great strings of gar- 
lic adorn the stalls of the French 
Market daily. 

HORSERADISH. 

Raifort. 

The roots of the horseradish are 
extensively used as an appetizer on 
Creole tables. They are an agree- 
able relish, with a fine, sharp, pun- 
gent taste. Scraped and grated very 
fine, and set on the table in small 
cups, they are used as a condiment. 
In cookery the horseradish is used 
In the preparation of sauces and sal- 
ads. 

kohlrabi, or turjtip-rootbd 
cabbage:. 

Chou-Navet. 

This vegetable is used in making 
soup pur6es or vegetable purges, and 
is also prepared in the same manner 
as cauliflower. (See recipes PurSes 
and also Cauliflower.) The finest va- 
riety, the "B^Tly -White "Vienna," is 
the only variety planted and sold in 
New Orleans. It -is an excellent ta- 
ble vegetable, very popular among 
the Italian and other European popu- 
lation of the city especially, and very 
largely cultivated. 

liBBKS. 

Poireau. 

This popular vegetable is a spe- 
cies of onion, highly esteemed for 
flavoring soups, etc. It is used al- 
together as a seasoning. 

liENTIIiS. 

Des Lentilles. 

Lentils are among the most nutri- 
tious of all vegetables. They may 
be made into a purge (see recipe un- 
der chapter on Soups), or may be 
cooked iTi every manner in which red 
and white beans are cooked. On 
Fridays and fast days they are sim- 
ply boiled over a slow fire, with a 
little butter, salt and pepper, and a 
bouquet of parsley, and an onion cut 
in quarters. Again, the Creoles boil 
Lentils with sausage, or chaurioe. 
Still again, they are simply boiled in 
salt and water, and served with a 
Sauce a la Vinaigrette, Sauce Sou- 
bise, or a Sauoe a, la Mai'tre d'Hotel. 
(See recipes.) 



MUSHROOMS. 

Des Champignons. 

Mushrooms constitute one of the 
greatest flavoring' vegetables known 
to the scientific •ouislnier. They are 
used in all manner of sauces, and 
when veal, game or fish are cooked 
"en braisS," or "en sautfi." They are 
used in "matelotes," and in nearly 
all forms of farcies. The Creoles, 
like the French, think it a crime to 
cook this vegetable in any form that 
would destroy its own peculiar flavor, 
or that which it is capable of impart- 
ing to the most ordinary dish. 

Stewed Mushrooms on Toast. 

Champignons Sautes sur CanapSs. 

1 Pint of Mushrooms. 

1 lablespoonful of Butter. a:be Juice of 1 

^emon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Drain the mushrooms of their li- 
' quor, and place in a stewpan with the 
butter; season to taste with salt and 
^pepper; cover and let them cook for 
ten minutes, tossing almost con^tant- 
Uy. Add the juice of a lemon and the 
chopped parsley. Place six slices of 
toast on a dish, garnish these nicely 
with the mushrooms and serve. The 
toast may be omitted If it is desired 
simply to stew the mushrooms and 
'serve as a vegetable.- 

Mushrooms With Cream. 

Champignons SautSs a. la Cr§me. 

1 Pint Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful Butter, 

Vi Cup of Cream. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg. 1 Tahlespoontul Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the mushrooms with their 
juice, into a saucepan, porcelain- 
lined or agate. Let them simmer for 
fifteen minutes. Then add one ta- 
blespoonful of butter, .blended' well 
with the same amount of flour, and 
mixed thoroughly with the cream. 
Season with salt and pepper. Stir 
well. Bring it to a good boil, and 
remove from the fire, and. stir in the 
yolk of an egg, which has been beat- 
en with Sherry Wine. Serve immedi- 
ately in a very hot dish or bowl. 

To stew canned mushrooms, drain 
them of their liquor. Melt the but- 
ter in a porcelain-lined saucepan, and 
gradually add the flour, without let- 
ting it burn. Blend smoothly. Add 
the boiling milk, and let it boil for 
about two minutes. Then add the 
mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste. 
Remove from the fire after five min- 
utes. Serve on buttered toast or 
Croutons fried in butter. Again, the 
milk may be omitted, and the mush- 
rooms stewed in their, own liquor. 



206 



Aluslirooms With Cream. 

Champignons Saut6s a. la Crgme. 
1 Pint Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

% Cup of Cream. 

The i'olli of 1 Egg. 1 Tablespoonful Floor. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put tlie mushrooms with their juice 
into a saucepan, porcelain-lined or 
agate. Let them simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Then add one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, blended with the same 
amount of flour, and mixed thorough- 
ly with the cream. Season with salt 
and pepper. Stir well. Bring it to 
a good boil, and remove from the 
Are and stir in the yolk of an egg, 
which has been beaten with Sherry 
Wine. Serve immediately In a very 
hot dish or bowl. 

To stew canned mushrooms, drain 
them of their liquor. Melt the but- 
ter in a porcelain-lined saucepan, and 
gradually add the flour, without let- 
ting it burn. Blend smoothly. Add 
the boiling milk, and let it boil for 
about two minutes. Then add the 
mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste. 
Remove from the flre after five min- 
utes. Serve on buttered toast or 
Croutons fried in butter. Again, the 
milk may be omitted, and the mush- 
rooms stewed in their own liquor. 

Stewed mashrooms, Spanish Style. 

Champignons SautSs a. I'Bspagnole. 

1 Pint or 1 Can of Kushrooms. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsl^. 1 Clove 

of Garlic. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chives. 1 Dozen Whole 

Peppers. 

Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 

Drain the mushrooms of their li- 
quor; cut them in lozenge-shaped 
pieces, and put them in a dish and 
sprinkle with a tablespoonful of olive 
oil, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Let the mushrooms soak in this mari- 
nade for two hours. At the end ot 
this time, take them out and put in 
a saucepan and let them stew for ten 
minutes. Make a sauce of three ta- 
blespoonfuls of olive oil, the clove of 
garlic, minced very fine, a tablespoon- 
ful of minced chives, and blend well. 
Add this to the mushrooms and let 
them saute for five minutes longer 
on a very slow fire, without boiling, 
and serve hot. 

Fried Mushrooms. 

Champignons 3. la Bordelaise. 

1 Pint Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful Olive Oil. 

6 Sballots, Minced Very Fine. 
Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf, Minced Fine. 

1 Clove of Garlic, Minced Fine. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the oil Into a frying pan, and, 
when heated, add the shallots, minced 
very fine. Let these brown slightly, 
and add the minced garlic and fine 
herbs. Let these brown for three 



minutes or so, and then add the 
mushrooins. Stir" well and fry for 
about five minutes. Add one table- 
spoonful of White Wine or Sherry, 
and serve the mushrooms on slices 
of French toast. 

MUSTARD. 

De la Moutarde. 

Mustard is grown extensively In 
Louisiana, especially the large- 
leaved or curled, .which has grown to 
be a distinct Louisiana variety, quite 
different from the European. The 
seed is black, and is raised in Louisi- 
ana, and the plant is being more ex- 
tensively cultivated every year. The 
large leaves are cooked the same as 
Spinach (see recipe), or they may be 
boiled with salt meat and served as 
greens. 

Our Creole mustard seeds are fa- 
mous not only in making sauces, but 
for medicinal purposes. 

OKRA. 

Du F6vi. 

Okra is a great summer disTi with 
the Creoles. It may be made into 
Gumbo (see recipe Okra Gumbos) or 
boiled and served en salade. 

Boiled Olsra. 

F6vi Bouilll. 

1 Quart Young Okra. 1 Tablespoonful Vinegar, 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the okra well in cold water, 
and put in a porcelain-lined or ag- 
ate saucepan. Add a pint of water 
.,an;d a teaspoonful of salt. Cover the 
pot, and let the okra simmer for 
about half an hour. Take from the 
pot, season with salt and pepper to 
taste, pour over a tablespoonful of 
Tarragon vinegar and set to cool. 
Serve as a salad, and with all meats, 
such as daube, roast, etc. 

Stewed Okra, Creole Style. 

F6vi Saute a, la Creole. 

i Dozen Okras. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

3 Mice Potatoes. 

1 Onion. 1 Green Pepper. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1- Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Wash the okras and pare the ends. 
Place in a saucepan with one table- 
spoonful of butter; add a finely- 
minced- onion and clove of garlic and 
green pepper. Let all cook for six 
'or eight minutes, and then "add the 
three tomatoes, chopped fine; also add 
the juice of the tomatoes. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper; add a 
dash of Cayenne and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley. Now add the 
okras, and let all simmer slowly for 
twenty minutes. Place in a hot, deep 
serving dish, and cover and send to 
the table. 



207 



OJNIOXS. 

De I'Ognon. 

Onions have always been conceded 
by the Creoles, as also by all scien- 
tists, among the healthiest of food 
substances. The onion is indispen- 
sable in the kitchen. It is used in 
almost every kind of meat and fish 
or vegetable seasoning, and imparts 
a flavor that cannot be claimed by 
any other vegetable. Onions are 
also acknowledged as a great seda- 
tive. The onion juice, mixed with 
sugar, is largely used by the old 
Creoles in coughs and colds, and is 
almost an infallible remedy. The on- 
ion is used as a salad, or it may be 
cooked in some very delightful ways. 
There are those, who, being over-fas- 
tidious, object to eating onions on ac- 
count of the perceptible odor that 
clings to the breath, especially in 
eating the raw onion in salad. This 
should never interfere in the con- 
sumption of a vegetable that carries 
within it such important chemical 
juices that operate so largely in the 
upbuilding of the general system. 
A glass of milk, taken after eating a 
raw onion, will destroy every parti- 
cle of odor or taste that remains in 
the mouth. 

The Louisiana Creole onion Is fa- 
mous. The origin of the Creole onion 
is lost in the mist of years. It has 
been planted in Louisiana for gener- 
ations, and is to-day the most, valu- 
able of all existing varieties of ;bp- 
ions in the Southern States. The^bnlb 
is supposed to have been brought to 
Louisiana from the south of Eu- 
rope over a century and a half ago 
and has been cultivated here so long 
that it has become a distinct kind. 
It is a singular fact that no northern 
seed has ever yet produced an onion 
in Louisiana soil. The Red Bermuda 
Onion is also cultivated in this State. 
It is flat, like the Creole, but a little 
lighter in color. Both are prepared 
after the following methods: 

Boiled Onions.' 

Ognons Bouillis. 

1 Dozen Nice, Small White Onions. 
1 Tablespoonfal Butter. 
Salt ana Pepper to Taste. 
Throw the onions in their skins 
Into cold water, and peel them. Then 
put them into a saucepan of boiling 
water. Add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and let them boil about forty min- 
utes, or until you can pierce them 
easily with a fork. Then put into a 
dish, and drain off all water. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper to taste and 
pour over a Drawn Butter Sauce 
(see Beurre a. la Maltre d'Hotel), 
and serve hot. The large Spanish on- 
ions will require about an hour long- 
er to boil tender. 



Creamed Onions, 

Ognons a la Crfime. 

1 Dozen Small, White Onions. 

1 Tablespoonfnl Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Flont. 

% Pint of Mills or Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the onions as directed in the 
above recipe. "When very tender, 
take off the fire and drain. Pour over 
them the following cream sauce, 
which you will have prepared when 
almost ready to serve: Put one ta- 
blespoonful of flour into a saucepan, 
and add a tablespoonful of butter. 
Set on the fire, and let all blend well 
together, rubbing very smooth, with- 
out browning. Then add half a pint 
of milk. Stir continually till it boils. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste, 
and pour over the onions, and serve 
hot. The young Creole onions are 
most delicious when prepared in this 
manner. 

Fried Onions. ' 

Ognons Frits. 

% Dozen Nice, Tenoer Onions. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful Salt, 
Pepper to Taste. 
Throw the onions into cold water, 
■peel them, and then cut them into 
thin slices. Cover them with boiling 
water, and let them boil about twenty 
minutes. Drain off the water thor- 
oughly, and put them into a frying 
pan with a large tablespoonful of 
butter, and season to taste, and let 
them fry slowly for about ten min- 
utes. Turn frequently-, to prevent 
them from burning. Again, the on- 
ions may be fried without previous 
boiling, some preferring this latter 
method, as it admits of the onion re- 
taining its flavor. Simply peel and 
pare and slice into round-shaped 
pieces. Day the pieces in milk, and 
then in grated bread crumbs or flour, 
and fry them in boiling fat for about 
ten minutes. Lift them out of the 
fat, drain well, and serve on a hot 
dish with fried parsley as a garnish. 
Young shallots may be fried by wash- 
ing well in cold water, cutting off 
the rough roots of the shallots, and 
then cutting the green and white to- 
gether into half-inch dice. Season 
well with salt and pepp«r, and fry 
in butter for about five minutes. Gar- 
nish a dish with parsley sprigs. Lay 
the shallots on these and serve hot. 

Smothered Onions. 

Ognons Sautes. 

1 Dozen Small Onions. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Quart of Broth. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Put the onions into cold water, 
and remove their skins. Then put 
them into a saucepan, and cover with 
a soup stock (pot-au-feu or boulllou). 



208 



i£ you have it, otherwise use water, 
and let them stew slowly for an hour 
and a half, till they are almost falling 
to pieces. Then drain the onions 
through a colander, and save the 
stock. Put a tablespoonful of butter 
into a frying pan, and add a table- 
spoonful of ilour, and make a Brown 
Koux. (See recipe.) When brown, 
add a half pint of the broth in which 
the onions were boiled. Season well 
with salt and pepper and a dash of 
Cayenne. Put the onions into this 
and let them simmer gently for about 
twenty minutes loi-iger. Serve hot. 

Stuffed Onions. 

Ognons Farcis. 

% Dozen Larae Spanish Onions. 

A Stuffing of Chaurice. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take a half dozen fine, large Span- 
ish onions, and put them in hot ashes 
to roast. When they are sufficiently 
cooked, which will be in about half 
an hour, take them out of the ashes, 
dust off, and peel well. Then open 
the interiors and fill with a- stuffing 
made as follows: Take a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and put in a fryihg pan, 
and add three chaurice, which you 
will have taken out of the casings 
and chopped finely again. Add. a cup 
of bread, which has been wet and 
squeezed, and mix well. Then add 
an inch of ham, finely chopped, and a 
sprig each of thyme and parsley and 
sweet marjoram, and one bay leaf, 
all finely minced. Season with salt 
and pepper to taste. Fry about fif- 
teen minutes, and then stuff the on- 
ions as far down in the' center as 
possible, and between the folds. 
Sprinkle the top with powdered bread 
crumbs and put a little dot of butter 
on top of each. Set in the oven and 
let them bake for about thirty or 
forty minutes. Serve with roast 
beef. 

Another nice way of stuffing on- 
ions is to peel the onion, scoop out 
the centers with a vegetable scoop, 
parboil them for ten minutes, and 
then fill the insides with the sausage 
forcemeat, as directed above. Line 
the bottom of a stew pan with fine 
strips of bacon. Lay over these an 
onion and a carrot both minced very 
fine. Place the onions on top of this 
and moisten with a pint of Chicken or 
Veal ConsommS. Set in the oven to 
bake for about three-quarters of an 
hour and baste frequently. Serve in 
a hot dish, with the sauce poured 
over. 

Baked Onions, 

Ognons Rotis. 

1 Dozen Large Spanish Onions, 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Trim the onions nicely, but do not 
peel them. Then put them into a 



kettle of boiling water, and let them 
'boil rapidly for about an ^our. Drain 
in a colander. Then put them in a 
baking pan, and let them bake slowly 
for about an hour. Take out and re- 
move the skins, and place in a vege- 
table dish, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and serve with Drawn Butter 
Sauce. (See Beurre a. la Maltre d'Ho- 
tel. 

After taking the onions out of the 
boiling water, if you wish to serve 
with "Roast Beef aux Ognons," peel 
the onions and place around the beef 
roast in the oven. Baste them as of- 
ten as you baste the roast, with the 
juices that come ff om it. Serve with 
the roast, using them as a garnish 
around the dish. 

Glazed Onions, 

Ognons Glacfis. 

V/d Dozen Small Onions of Uniform Size, 

1 Tablespoonful Sugar. 1 Cup Water. 
1 Large Teaspoonful Butter. Salt to Taste, 

Select small Creole onions of uni- 
form size, top the heads and the 
stems, and remove the skins, but not 
too closely, lest they should break 
up when boiling. Then take a fry- 
ing pan, large enough for the on- 
ions to lie in it, side by side. Put the 
butter in it first, and wh-en melted add 
the onions. Then sprinkle with the 
sugar and water, and season with 
salt to taste. Set oij the back of the 
Stove, where they can simmer gently 
for an hour. When nearly done, and 
tender all through, add a tablespoon- 
'ful of flour, mixed in water, blended 
well. Then set in the oven, with a 
paper on top. Let them stand for 
about half an hour, and use as a 
garnish for beef, veal, etc. The on- 
ions will be nicely glazed, and will 
make the dish appear very beautiful. 

SHAIii^oTS. 

fichallottes. 

Shallots are small-sized onions, 
grown in clumps. They are very 
delicate and mild in flavor, and much 
used in soups, stews, salads, etc. In 
the green state they are also chopped 
and fried in butter. (See recipe Fried 
Onions.) 

PARSLEY, 

' Persir. 

Parsley is one of the most impor- 
tant of all vegetable herbs, entering, 
as it does, into the seasoning of all 
soups, meats, fish and even vegeta- 
bles. It is one of the most beautiful 
of all garnishes, and gives a pretty 
touch to the homeliest dish. The 
"Plain-Leaved," the "Double Curled," 
or the "Beautiful Garnish" varieties 
are always to be found in the New 
Orleans market. A handful of par- 
sley is always thrown into the mar- 
ket basket for "Lagniappe." 



209 



Fried Parsley. 

PersU Frit. 
6 or 8 Sprigs of Parsley. 
1 TaUespoonful of Lard. 
Pick off the delicate leaves and 
branches of very young parsley, wash 
well, drain and put in a frying* pan, 
in which you will have placed a ta- 
blespoonful of lard and allowed to 
reach a medium hot state. Fry slow- 
ly and drain and use as a garnish or 
as needed. 

Chopped Parsley. 

Persil HachS. 
Wash the parsley in cold water, 
trim oft the coarse stems and branch- 
es and leaves, immerse in very cold 
water again, drain, press dry and 
chop very fine. Use as needed. 

Parsley Green. 

Persil au Jus. 
Take young parsley, wash well, 
strip of all coarse stems, arid branch- 
es, plunge into very cold water, chop 
very fine, squeeze in a strong kitchen 
towel and save the juice for coloring 
purposes. 

, Parsley for Garnlslilngr Purposes. 

Garniture de Persil. 
Take several bunches of fresh par- 
sley, trim off all- the coarse stems, 
wash In slightly salted water, drain 
and place in a colander. Set over a 
watertight vessel. • Shave some ice, 
cover the parsley with it and let It 
keep fresh and . cool for table gar- 
nishes. Never lay parsley that is 
intended, for garnishing purposes, in 
water, as the freshness will be quick- 
ly destroyed, and it will become dark, 
discolored, limp and slimy and devoid 
of all beauty or crispness. 

PARSNIPS. 

Des Panais. 
6 or 8 Parsnips. 
V> Pint of Sauce a la Maltre d'Hotel. 
To boil parsnips. If they are young, 
simply scrape them and lay them 
in cold water. If the parsnips are 
old, pare them and cut them in quar- 
ters, or, better still, split length- 
wise. Let the young parsnips cook 
in salted boiling water in a porce- 
lain-lined saucepan for forty-five 
minutes; let the older ones cook for 
an hour and a quarter. When done, 
take them out of the saucepan, and 
drain and serve on a heated dish w^ith 
a Drawn Butter Sauce. (See Beurre 
a la Maltre d'Hotel.) 

Boiled Parsnips With Cream Sauce. 

Panais Bouillls ?L la CfSme. 
6 or 8 Parsnips. A Cream Sauce. 
Proceed exactly as above in peel- 
ing and boiling the parsnips. "When 
done, drain and put into a heated 
dish, and serve with a Cream Sauce 
poured.over them. (See recipe Cream 



Sauce.). Serve the parsnips with 
boiled salt or fresh fish or boiled 
corn beef. 

Pried Parsnips. 

Panais Frits. 

5 Parsnips. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Drippings of Roast Beet, 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Chopped 'Parsley to Garnish. 

Brush and scrape or peel the par- 
snips as directed above. Then boil 
as directed in salted water till ten- 
der. When done, drain off the water 
and out the parsnips into slices 
lengthwise of about half an inch in 
thickness. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of the drippings of the roast beef in 
the saucepan, and add a teaspoonful 
of butter. When hot add the sliced 
parsnips. When they are brown on 
one side, turn on the other and let 
this brown also. Place on a hot 
platter, sprinkle with chopped par- 
sley and salt and pepper, and serve 
with roast meats. 

Smothered Parsnips. 

Panais SautSs. .^ 

6 or 8 Parsnips. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 
Boil the parsnips as directed, and 
then cut into strips of the length of 
the parsnip, and half an inch in 
width. Put ,a ,big cookingspoonful of 
butter ipto the saucepan, and add the 
parsiiips. Sprinkle weH with' salt ^nd 
pepper. Cover and let them fry, but 
■only slightly brown, on either side. 
~Serye with chopped parsley as a 
'garnish 

< Masbed Parsnips. 

i Purfie. de Panais. 
6 or 8 Parsriins. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Pint of Milk. ■ 

SAlt and Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the parsnips until so tender 
that tliey break easily under pres- 
sure. Then mash them well, after 
draining off all water. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan, and 
add a tablespoonful of flour. Blend, 
without browning, and add a half 
Dint of milk or cream. Stir well, and 
as the mixture begins to boil, add 
the parsnips. Mix thoroughly, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and serve 
in a dish, heaping up the parsnips in 
pyramidal shape. Serve with veal 
cutlets. 

Parsnip Balls. 

Boulettes de Panais. 

3 Large Parsnips. 2 :Eggs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Boil the parsnips, as directed above, 
until very, very tender. Then drain 
and mash through a colander. Beat 
two eggs very light, and .rdd the P9.r- 
snips, using proportions of three 



210 



large parsnips to the eggs. Then 
form the parsnips into little balls 
or boulettes, and fry in boiling lard, 
or make into little cakes and fry on 
a griddle. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Beignets de Panais. 

6 Parsnips. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter, 

1 Cup of Water, 2 Eggs. 
% Pound of Flour. 1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
1 Teaspoonful of Pepper. 
Boil the parsnips as directed above 
till very tender. Then cut into long, 
Harrow strips.- Make a batter by 
mixing the flour with the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten well. Then add the 
salt and pepper, and gradually one 
cup of water, till it is absorbed. Then 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Mix thoroughly. Add 
the parsnips to the batter. Dip out 
one at a time, in a spoon of butter, 
and fry in boiling lard. Serve as an 
entrfee at dinner. 

PEAS. 

Des Pois Sees. 

All dried, split, kidney or black- 
eyed peas may be cooked in the same 
manner as beans. (See recipe.) 

GRISEIV PEAS. 

Des Pois Verts. 
Green peas are abundant in our 
New Orleans market, with but a 
short respite, almost all the year. 
We have two crops, the spring and 
fall. ..The large peas, or older ones, 
are called "Des Pois "Verts," and the 
smaller, or French peas, "Des Petite 
Pois." The latter are great deli-, 
cacies when boiled and served with 
butter; the former may be utilized 
In making that most delectable dish, 
"Pur#e des Pois Verts." (See recipe 
in Chapter on Soups.) 

To Cook Canned Green Peas. 

Petits Pois en Conserve. 
The delightful preparations of 
French peas that come put up in 
cans do not require much cooking, 
being, like all canned vegetables, al- 
ready cooked. To cook these drain 
the peas from all liquor after open- 
ing the can, and put them in a sauce- 
pan; add a tablespoonful of butter 
and pepper and salt to taste. Set 
on the flre, and, when thorouhgly 
heated, serve immediately. Green 
peas are served with all roast, and 
broiled and sautSd meats, fowls or 
game. There is scarcely a vegetable 
that admits of such various uses 
with entries. 

Bolted Green Peas. 

Petit Pois au Naturel. 

1 Pint of FresK toung Green Peas. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the peas, and when you have 

a pint (sufficient for six), put the 



peas into (jold water, drain and put 
into a saucepan of boiling water' 
add a teaspoonful of salt to pre- 
vent the peas from cracking, and let 
them boil rapidly for at least twenty 
minutes. To ascertain if they are 
done, take one out and press with a 
fork. The great art in cooking green 
peas properly is to have plenty of 
water, to cook the peas very rapidly, 
and not to let them boil a moment 
longer than necessary, if you would 
keep them from being soggy and pre- 
serve their fresh color and sweetness. 
Fresh peas should never be shelled 
until the moment when you wish to 
cook them. When cooked, they must 
be eaten Immediately. As soon as 
done, drain off all water; put a large 
tablespoonful of butter into the 
saucepan with the peas, season witti 
pepper to taste, pour into a vegetable 
dish and serve hot. This is the very 
nicest way of cooking this dainty 
vegetable. 

As the peas grow older and larger, 
'they may be made into purges, or 
cooked as follows: 

Green Peas ft la Bonrgeolse. 

Pois Verts SautSs 3, la Bourgeoise. 

1 Pint of Peas. 
Ihi Tablespoonfuls gf Butter, 
1 Ounce of Chopped Onion. 
1 Herb Bouquet, Minced Fine. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
% Pint of Cream or ililk or Water. 
Shell -and poll the peas accoTding 
•to the above recipe. Add sprigs of 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf, finely . 
Winced. When done, which will be" 
in about forty minutes, if the peas 
are large, or perhaps, a few minutes 
longer (easily ascertained by taking 
out a pea and pressing It with a 
fork), drain off all water and add 
one tablespoonful and a half of but- 
ter. Then blend the flour, and add 
the milk, preferably, mixing together 
and stirring well, to prevent brown- 
ing or burning. Serve hot. Some add 
the yolk of an egg, well beaten, after 
taking the peas off the fire, but this 
is a matter of taste; the flavoT of 
the peas is more perceptible without 
it. 

Green Peas, Country Style. 
Petits Ppis Verts a. la Paysanne. 

1 Pint of Green Peas. 3 Small Carrots. 
1-8 of a Head of Green and White Cabbage. 
A Tablespoonful of Butter. 
% Pint of Consomme of Veal or Chicken. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Shell the peas; take three small 
carrots, and one-eighth of a head of 
cabbage, and one-quarter head of let- 
tuce, and cut into small dice-shaped 
pieces. Put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter in a saucepan and let the dice- 
shaped vegetables smother for about 
fifteen minutes over a slow Are with- 
out browning. Add the green peas 



2n 



and the consomme, and let aU cook 
for a half hour, stirring frequently 
to prevent burning. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper, and use a 
sprinkling of T3hoi)ped parsley as a 
garnish. 

Green Peas, French Style. 

Petit Pois Verts a, la Frangalse. 

1 Pint of Fresh Green Peas, or 1 Can. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. % Cup of Water. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 1 Lettuce Heart. 1 Onion. 

1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the peas and wash and drain 
them. Put them into a saucepan, 
with one tablespoonful of butter; add 
the herb bouquet, the onion whole, 
and the lettuce heart, and cover with 
cold water, and let them simmer 
slowly for about twenty minutes, or 
until tender. Then drain off the wa- 
ter, remove the onion and herb bou- 
quet, lay the lettuce heart on a dish, 
and add another tablespoonful of but- 
ter to the peas. Let them cook for 
five minutes longer. Pour the peas 
over the lettuce heart and send to the 
table hot, and serve with chops or 
cutlets as a vegetable. 

Green Peas, Old Creole Style. 

Petits Pois Verts t I'Ancienne Mode 
Creole. 

1 Pint of Tounj Green Peas. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. % Cup of Cream. 

The Yolk of 1 Egii. 

1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell and clean the peas careful- 
ly. Put them in a saucepan with 
three tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
cover with a cup of water; season 
wtih a pinch of salt, and let them 
cook for twenty minutes, or until 
tender. Take three tablespoonfuls of 
cream and beat with the yolk' of one 
egg; add a half pinch of white pep- 
per, and mix thoroughly with the 
peas. Add a teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar, stir well, and let all cook to- 
gether for five minutes and serve hot. 

PnrSe of Green Peas ft la CrSoIe. 

Purge de Pois Verts a. la Creole. 

1 Pint of Green Peas. 1 Cup of Milk or Cream 
A Pinch of Salt and White Pepper. 
1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 

Shell and clean the peas well; then 
put them in a saucepan with the 
cream and a half cup of water, and 
let them simmer till they become 
quite soft. Then remove the pan from 
the fire; rub the peas through a fine 
sieve; season well with the salt and 
pepper and sugar; add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter; beat the butter in well 
with the peas; set on the stove for 
five minutes and serve hot. Peas 
thus prepared are served as a vege- 
table with entrees and other meats. 



Puree of Green Peas ft la St. Germain. 

Puree de Pois Verts a, la St. Germain. 
1 Pint of Green Peas. 1 Pint of Chicken Broth. 

1 Pint of Sweet Cream. 1 Herb Bouquet. 
2 Sprigs of Mint. 

A Pinch Each of Salt and White Pepper. 
1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 
8 Chicken Quenelles to Garnish. 
Shell and clean the peas and put 
them in a saucepan or sautoire, with 
one pint of chicken broth and one 
pint of sweet cream. Add an herb 
bouquet, in which you will have tied 
two sprigs of mint. Let the peas 
cook for twenty minutes, or until 
very tender, and then remove the 
herb bouquet and mint; take from 
the fire, and run the peas through 
a sieve. Season with salt and pep- 
per and a little powdered sugar; add 
a tablespoonful of butter; set on the 
fire five minutes longer, and then 
serve on a hot dish with Chicken 
Quenelles (see recipe) to garnish. 
Make the quenelles from the chicken 
left over from the broth. This is a 
very recherche dish. Serve as an en- 
tree. 

POTATOES. 

De la Pomme de Terre. 
Potatoes may be cooked in a great- 
er variety of ways than any other 
vegetable. They are most nutritious 
and are always economical as well'as 
palatable dish on the table. 

Steamed Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre a, la Vapeur. 

8 Nice Potatoes. 
A Pot of Boiling Water. Salt. 

Wash the potatoes well, scrubbing' 
thoroughly, to take off every particle 
of earth that adheres. Then put 
them in a potato steamer, and set 
over a pot of boiling water. Cover 
tight and steam till you can pierce 
with a fork. Potatoes should never 
be boiled if you can steam them 
conveniently, as they are naturally 
watery. When done, remove the 
Jackets, or skin, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; add a tablespoonful 
of butter in which you have mingled 
chopped parsley; and serve immedi- 
ately. Or they may be. served just as 
they are, in a covered dish. A po- 
tato should always be mealy, and not 
sogged with water, if cooked prop- 
erly. In cooking potatoes the time 
depends on the size of the potato. 
An unfailing test is to cook till the 
potato can be easily pierced with a 
fork. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre au Naturel. 

6 Potatoes, of Uniform Size, If Possible. 
Boiling Water. 

Potatoes should always be boiled 
in their skins, or jackets, if possible. 



212 



Never be guilty of paring a, new po- 
tato before boiling-. Towards the 
close of winter, just before the new 
crop comes in, ther potatoes may be; 
parecj, so that 'blemishes may' be re- 
moved. But this is soa-rcely neces- 
sary in our State, unless the old po- 
tatoes have sprouted and shriveled. 

Wash and scrub the potatoes well, 
and put them on in their Jackets in 
a pot of boiling water, which has 
been well salted. Let them cook un- 
til they are soft enough to be 
pierced with a fork. Do not let them 
remain a moment longer, or they will 
become waxy and watery. Nothing is 
more disagreeable than a watery po- 
tato. When done, take them out and 
drain dry. Put into steamer, sprinkle 
with salt, and cover and let them 
stand over the kettle (lid open) on 
the fire for a few minutes for the wa- 
ter to evaporate. After five minutes 
take off and peel quickly,, and serve 
In a covered vegetable dish. Nothing 
Is more unpleasant than to be given 
a cold potato at the -table. Properly 
cooked, the potato should be dry and 
flaky and most acceptable. 

If the potatoes are old and begin- 
ning to sprout, it will be found better 
to put them on in cold water after 
paring or peeling, and let them cook 
gradually. 

The Creoles use the water in which 
the potatoes have been boiled for de- 
stroying the green flies and insects 
that infest ros'e bushes.' ' ' 

Potatoes With Drawn Butter. 

Pommes de Terre aux Beurre Maltre 
d'Hotel. 

6 Potatoes. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. Salt and Pepper. 

Boil the potatoes according to the 
above recipe. Peel and pour over 
them a tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter, in which you have mingled 
chopped parsley. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Potatoes prepared in this way 
are delicious. 

Or, if you wish to have mashed po- 
tatoes, or a "Puree of Potatoes," as 
a vegetable, mash the potatoes well, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter; Salt and pepper to taste. Place 
in a dish, mold prettily, and serve hot 
with meats, fish, poultry, etc. A' half 
cup of milk or cream may be added 
to the purSe with very delicious re- 
sults. (For Pur6e of Potatoes as 
soup, see recipe under heading 
Soups.) 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre a. la Crfime. 

6 Potatoes. A Cream Sance. 

Boil the potatoes as above, and 
po.ur oyer- them (remembering al- 
ways to keep them whole) a Cream 
Sauce.. (See recipe.) Serve hot with 
fried chicken. Add the juice of a 
lemon. " 



Potatoes ft la Mattre d'Hotel.. . 

Pommes dc Terre a. la Maitre d'H/otel. 
6 Potatoes. Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. , 
. . B.0J1 •J:he potatoes whole, according, 
to recipe, and serve hot, with a Sauce, 
a la Maitre d^'Hotel poured over them.' 

Potato Puffs. 

Pommes de Terre SoufliS a, la Crgole. 

2 Cups of Cold Mashed Potatoes. 

2 Eggs. 3 Tablespoonfuls of nream or Milk.* 

, 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This is a nice way jto- utilize left- 
over potatoes. Masii the potatoes 
well, and put them into a frying pan 
with the butter. Add the yolks of 2. 
eggs well beaten, and stir well, and 
almost add immediately the cream. 
Let it. get very hot, stirring all the 
time. Then take the potatoes from 
the. fire, and add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Butter 
a baking dish or biscuit pan, and 
fill with the mixture. Let it bake 
in a quick oven till brown. This is 
an old Creole way of preparing po-, 
tafoes, ancl highly recommended. 
Potato Snow. 
Pommes de Terre a. la Neige. 
6 Potatoes. Salt to Taste. 

Boil the potatoes with their jackets 
on.' Then peel them and set then* 
before the fire, to allow all the water 
to evaporate. Sprinkle -lightly with 
salt. Then rub them through a sieve; 
or colander. Let the potato fall in 
light, flaky drops, like snow .flakes. 
Do not touch the flakes as they fall. 
Serve on the dish in which the flakes 
■ have fallen. This dish is very deli- 
cious. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Pommes de Terre en Croquettes. 

2; Cups of Mashed Potatoes, 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cream. 

1 Teaspoonful of Onion Juice. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 1 Ounce of Butter. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. A Dash of Cayenne. 

Beat the yolks to a cream and add 
them to the .potatoes. Mix well and 
then add the cream and all the othei" 
ingredients.' Mix well, and put into 
a saucepan over the fire, and stir un- 
till the mixture leaves the side of 
the vessel. Take off the flre, and 
set to cool. When cold, form into 
cylinders of about two and a half 
inches in length and one in Width.: 
Roll flrst in a beaten egg, to bind, 
and then in bread crumbs, and fry 
to a golden brown in boiling lard.> 
(See general directions for frying.) 
When done, lift out of the lard with 
a skimmer, and drain on brown pa- 
per in the mouth of the oven. Serve 
for breakfast, or as a garnish, for 
meats. Utilize left-over potatoes in 
this way. Serve with flsh, fried; 
broiled or baked. 



213 



Boulettes are prepared In exactly 
the same manner, only thyme and 
bay leaf, minced very fine, are added, 
S.nd the potatoes are formed into 
balls or boulettes. Boulettes are eat- 
en more generally at breakfast, and 
croquettes at dinner, especially with 
fish. - ' 

Potatoes au Gratln. 
Pommes de Terre au Gratin. 

5 Cold Boiled Potatoes. 
% Pint of Cream. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
3% Heaping Tablespoonfuls of Gruyere or 
Parmesan Cheese. 
The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 
% Pint of Consomme or Water. 
Skit and Cayenne to Taste. 
Put the butter in the frying pan, 
and as it melts, add the flour, and let 
it blend, rubbing smooth, without 
browning. Then add the consomme 
or water and the cream, and stir con- 
stantly till the mixture boils. Then 
take the saucepan from the fire, and 
add the cheese, well grated, and the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Beat all thor- 
oughly till light. Mash the potatoes 
well, and place, first, a layer of the 
sauce in the saucepan, and then of 
the potatoes, and so on till the sauce 
forms the top layer. Sprinkle this 
lightly with bread crumbs, and set 
in, the oven and let bake ten minutes. 
When it comes to a nice brown, serve 
in the dish in which it was baked. 

Potato Souffl& 

Pommes de Terre en SoufilS. 
2 Cups of Masted Potatoes. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 2 Eggs. 
% Cup of Cream. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Mash the potatoes well, pressing 
them through a colander. Then add' 
the butter, and beat till sm6oth and 
light. Add the cream and the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Then add the 
whites, which must be beaten to a 
Stiff froth. Then heap this into a 
dish, leaving the mound rough and 
uneven, so that the dish will look 
pretty with the tips nicely browned. 
Set in the oven and bake to a beau- 
tiful brown, and serve in the dish 
in which it was baked. 

Scalloped potatoes are cooked in 
the same manner, only the potatoes 
are cut. into dice, a Cream Sauce is 
madp, and a layer of potatoes and 
a layer of the sauce is put into a 
pan or shells, and then alternate lay- 
ers, with a layer of sauce on top. 
Sprinkle lightly with bread crumbs, 
and serve in the Shells or in the dish 
in which it was b'aked. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre a. la Frangaise. 

6 Potatoes. Boiling Lard. 

..Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Peel the potatoes and then cut into 

three-inch dice; or sections like an 



orange. Have ready a frying pan of 
very. hot, boiling lard, and let them 
fry to a golden yellow or brown. Do 
not burn. Take, them out .with a 
skimmer, aild'drain in a Heated, col- 
and'er. Stanii the colander In' the 
■mouth of the oven while you fry the 
Remainder of the potato. When. done, 
sprinkle with salt, garnish with 
chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Julienne Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre a. la Julienne. 

4 Potatoes. Boiling Lard. 

Peel and out the potatoes into 
long, thin strips. Then fry in boil- 
ing lard, and serve with beefsteak, 
grillades, etc. 

Potato Chips. 

Pommes de Terres Frites. 

2 Potatoes Boiling Lard. 
Parsley Sprigs to Garnish. 

Have two medium-sized potatoes, 
and slice them just as thin as possi- 
ble, and fry in boiling lard. (See di- 
rections for frying.) Use a vegetable 
cutter, if you have one, for slicing 
the potato. Drop a few pieces at a 
time into the lard, and be sure to 
have the lard about three inches deep. 
Stir the slices occasionally, to keep 
them from overlapping the_ others. 
When a light brown, take oiit of the 
pan arid drain on a piece "of, brown 
paper, which you have put in a col- 
ander. Stand in the open oven, and 
continue frying. As you finish the 
second frying turn the first from the 
colander into a heated dish, and so 
continue till all the potatoes are 
fried. Serve hot. Garnish, if you 
wish, with parsley sprigs. 

Pommes de Terre Frites corres- 
pond to 'the American dish of Sara- 
toga chips.- 

L.yonnaise Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre a. la Lyonnaise. 

2 Pints of Cold Boiled Po'tatoes, Cut in Dice. 
2 Onions. 2 Large Tablespoonfuls Butter. - 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take cold boiled potatoes, and cut 
them into slices. Slice the onions 
fine. Put the lard into the frying pan 
and as it melts add the onions. Let 
them fry until half done, and then 
add the potatoes. Fry and stir gent- 
ly until the potatoes are a light 
yellow. They must not be fried 
brown or crisp, but merely saut6d, or 
smothered, in the onions. The dish 
is really Pommes de Terres Sautfies 
a, la Lyonnaise. When done, turn in- 
to a hot dish, garnish with chopped; 
parsley, and serve very hot, with 
beefsteak, etc. 



214 



Brabant Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre Brabant. 

3 Boiled Potatoes. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 lablespoonful of Choppeil Parsley. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vinegar. 

Cut the potatoes into small dice- 
shaped pieces and fry them for a few 
minutes in the lard. When half 
brown, take out of the lard and fin- 
ish frying in the butter to a light 
brown. When ready to serve, add 
three sprigs of chopped parsley, and 
salt and pepper, and the Juice of a 
lemon, and serve hot. 

Potatoes & la Bourgeolse, 

Pommes de Terre a, la Bourgeoise. 
6 Potatoes. 1 Pint Gravy or Broth. 
1 Onion. 1 Leak. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Take cold boiled potatoes and cut 
into quarters, and then drain and put 
Into a saucepan, and cover w^ith any 
meat gravy or soup stock that may 
have remained, and chopped onion, 
chopped leak, pepper and salt. Set 
on the stove and let stew or simmer 
(or half an hour. This is an -Excell- 
ent family dish, that can be made 
with left-over potatoes, and may be 
used for breakfast or luncheon. 

Potatoes With Butter. 

Pommes de Terre au Beurre. 
18 Small New Potatoes. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful Parsley, 
Select for this dainty dish small, 
round new potatoes, about the size 
of a marble. Boil them for about 
half an hour or twenty minutes, ac- 
cording to the touch when pierced 
with a fork. Then drain off water, 
peel quickly, and put into a sauce- 
pan, with a tablespoonful of butter. 
Let them brown lightly, and serve 
with Drawn Butter Sauce, in which 
you have put a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. 

Potatoes & la Cr£ole. 

Pommes de Terre a. la Crfiole. 

8 Potatoes. 1 Spoonful of Flour. 

Yolks of 2 Eggs. 2 Teaspoonfuls of Vinegar. 

2 Tablespoonfpls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper. 
Boil the potatoes according to re- 
cipe. Then take out of the water, 
drain and set to the side of the stove 
for five minutes, to evaporate. Then 
take off and pour over the following 
sauce: Blend one tablespoonful of 
flour with two of butter, and, as it 
melts, add about three large table- 
spoonfuls of water. Let it come to a 
boil, and take off the stove and add 
the yolk of an egg, which has been 
beaten very light. Add two teaspoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Beat well, and pour 
over the potatoes, and serve either 
hot or cold a. la salade. 



Potatoes 11 la Dlable. 

Pommes de Terre a, la Diable. 

2 Dozen New Potatoes, About the Size of 

Marbles. 

1 Teaspoonful of Mustard. 

2 Large Tablespoonfnls of Butter. 

A Dash of Cayenne. Salt to Taste. 

To appreciate this dish, one must 
first hear the funny old Creole story 
connected with its origin. Tradi- 
tion relates that Jean Marie, who 
was one of "dose no-count Creole, 
what love one good game of card, 
one good story, and one good glass 
wine wid Jacques and Jules more 
better than work for make money for 
his famine," was one day told by 
his wife, Madame Jean Marie, to 
"take dat basket and go for dat 
French market, and buy some of dose 
new pommes de terre." It was a 
familiar saying in the old quarter 
that Madame Jean Marie, who was 
the support of her large family, also 
wore the "culottes" or trousers. 
There were constant squabbles be- 
tween her and her good-for?nothlng 
spouse, but she frequently managed 
to make him help her a little in the 
"menage." On this particular day, 
-Monsieur Jean Marie resented her in- 
terference with his pleasure. Then, 
too, floating visions of his compan- 
ions at his dear familiar haunts, jeer- 
ing him as he passed with the market 
basket on his arm, and telling him, 
"Parbleu, but Jean Marie, you would 
make one good woman, ya-as!" rose 
before his mental vision. He rebelled 
against his wife's authority, and told 
her point blank that he would not go. 
■Approaching him, with the market 
basket in her hand, the enraged wife 
shook her fist in his face, and told 
him if he "didn't make quick for go 
to dat market and get pommes de 
terres, dat she would show him de 
next world before it bin come." And 
she thrust the market basket in his 
hands. "Pommes de terre aux dia- 
ble!" cried out Monsieur Jean Marie, 
groundflinging the basket on the 
ground. Madame Jean Marie eyed 
him for one moment. Then going up 
to him, with a most determined air, 
she coolly picked up the basket and 
said in a tone of voice that he had 
learned to know too well: "Now, I 
is one patient woman, yas, mais I 
don't let no man 'aux diable' at me. 
Tou hear dat hein. Now, if you don't 
go for dat market, as I bin tell you, 
I gone make you eat one dish 9. la 
diable dat bin make you wish all 
your life long you bin walk more 
quick." Jean Marie sullenly picked 
up the basket and went to market 
But tradition also relates that he 
lingered so long that when he re- 
turned Madame Jean Marie swore 
that she would keep her promise. 
While cooking the potatoes she 
poured a quantity of mustard into 



215 



them, and, to still further "burn his 
tongue, and keep him from talk so 
long wid dose vieux camarades, 
Jacques and Jules," she added a 
good, dash of Cayenne. "Now," she 
said, as she brought the dish to the 
table in her anger, "I go'ne make you 
eat pommes de terre Si la diable, for 
sure!" But her revenge was neither 
long nor sweet. The improvised dish 
that was intended for a punishment 
proved such a success that Jean Ma- 
rie laughed heartily as he lolled back 
in his chair, and declared that he 
was going to "make three, four dol- 
lar quick for ax Jacques and Jules 
come to one grand dejeuner S. la 
tourchette, and eat some pommes de 
terre 3. la diable with him." And 
so the dish was christened, and the 
quaint name has remained to this 
very day. It is made as.follow^s: 

Take nice, fresh new potatoes and 
boil them. (See recipe for boiling po- 
tatoes.) When done, take off and let 
evaporate, being careful not to have 
cooked them too much. Take a deep 
frying pan, and heat the lard to the 
boiling "point. When it begins to 
boil, drop in the potatoes, and let 
them fry for about five minutes. Lift 
out with a skimrner, drain quickly, 
and put them into a saucepan with 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
into which you have rubbed well a 
teaspoonful of prepared mustard. 
Add a dash of Cayenne and two tea- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Let it cook for 
three or four minutes, shaking con- 
stantly, and then take off. Add the 
yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and 
serve 'immediately with Grillades a. 
la Sauce or Grillades Panges. (See 
recipes.) 

Ducliess Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre 9. la Duchesse. 

i Dozen Boiled Potatoes. 

The Yolt of 1 Egg. 

Take one dozen boiled potatoes, 
mash them, and form into small 
square cakes. Criss-cross them grace- 
fully with a knife, brush with the 
yolk of an egg beaten in water or 
milk, and set in the oven to bake 
to a delicate brown. 

Potatoes & la Farlslenne. 

Pommes de Terre a. la Parisienne. 

8 Potaoes. 

1 Kitchenspoonful of Butter. 

^ Plat of Milk or Water. 2 Eggs. 

Peel the potatoes and let them boil 
till tender in salt and water. Take 
them out of the water, and grate and 
mash them into a paste. Put this 
potato paste in a saucepan with a 
kitchenspoonful of butter and a half 
pint of milk or water, more or less, 
according to the dryness of the po- 
tatoes. Season lightly with salt, 
and add a teaspoonful of orange flow- 
er water, to give a pleasant taste. 



Let all boil together, stirring con- 
stantly until a smooth and thick 
paste is formed. Then turn the mix- 
ture into another pan, in which you 
have already beaten two eggs until 
very, very light. Mix thoroughly, 
and make small boulettes or balls of 
this paste. Have ready a pan of boil- 
ing lard, place the boulettes in it, 
and when they are a beautiful gold- 
en brown take them out, drain and 
serve hot. The orange flower water 
may be omitted. The boulettes may 
also be sprinkled with fine white 
sugar, according to the true Parisian 
■ style. The Creoles serve them with 
or without the sugar, according to 
taste, 

Sweet potatoes may also be pre- 
pared after this manner, and are de- 
licious. The sweet potatoes are al- 
ways sprinkled with white sugar. 

Potato Balls. 

Pommes de Terre en Boulettes. 

8 Potatoes. 

1 Kitchenspoonful of Butter. 

% Pint of Milk. 2 Eggs. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Cook the potatoes as above, or use 

cold left-over potatoes for this dish. 

'Mash the potatoes well, and add an 

fequal quantity of cold left-over meat 

tor pork, minced very fine. Sausage 

taay also be used, with or without 

the meat. Season well with salt and 

■pepper, minced parsley and shallots 

or onions. Mix well with the yolks 

of two eggs, and form into balls of 

medium size. Brush with the whites 

of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 

and fry in boiling lard. Serve with. 

garnish of chopped parsley or with 

meat gravy. 

Potato ftucnelles. 

Quenelles de Pommes de Terre 

6 Potatoes 
1 Tablespoontul of Butter. 2 Eggs. 
Boil the potatoes, peel and mash 
Very fine. Add the butter and minced 
iparsley, and a half onion minced very 
fine. Add the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten very light, and then form the 
'potatoes into balls and throw them 
'for two minutes into boiling water. 
Take out, brush with the whites of 
the eggs, roll lightly in powdered 
bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. 
Drain and serve with fish, meat or 
any sauce. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre Roties. 

6 or 8 Potatoes. 

A Drawn Butter Sauce, or Sauce a la Hoi- 

landaise. 

To bake potatoes without meat, 

wash the potatoes well, set them In 

the oven in their skins, and in about 

an hour open the oven slightly and 

take the potatoes ont, one by one. 



216 



in a cloth, and press lightly to see 
jf they are q,uite soft to the touch. 
Then either bring' to the table In 
their Jackets, as mainy prefer, or 
pare and serve witli a: Drawn Butter 
Sauce, or with daubes, meats, sautfes, 
etc., or with any fish or meats with 
gravies. 

Stuffed Potatoes ft la Crfiole. 

Pommes de Terre Farcies a, la Creole. 

6 or 8 Potatoes. Cliaurlce (Sausage) Forcemeat. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

This is a delightful Creole varia- 
tion for preparing potatoes. Select 
fine large potatoes, and have ready 
several ' nice Chaurice. Wash and 
peel the potatoes. 

Potatoes may also be stuffed after 
washing, by peeling carefully and 
scooping out the insides nicely with 
a spoon or sharp-pointed knife. Then 
make a sausage forcemeat (see re- 
cipe), and heap up lightly on top. 
Butter, a baking dish nicely, • place 
the potatoes upon it, and let them 
bake in a slow oven for a half hour 
or forty-five minutes, till nicely 
browned, and send to the table hot. 

Stuffed Potatoes, lienten Style. 

Pommes de Terre a. la CrSme. 

6 Large Potatoes. The Tolk, of 1 Egg. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

% Cuj of Milk or Cream. 

% Teaspoonful of Crated Nutmeg. 

Bake the potatoes in the oven, and, 
when done, cut one end and scoop 
out the meat without breaking the 
skin. Add the yolk of one egg, the 
butter, chopped parsley, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and the grated nutmeg, 
and moisten all with the cream or 
milk. Mix well and beat very light. 
Then refill the skins and return to 
the oven for' a few minutes, 'till very 
hot and slightly browned, and serve. 

Stuffed Potatoes, Swiss Style. 

Pommes de Terre Farcies Si la- Suisse. 

6 or 8 Potatoes. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Cup of Hot Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful ot Salt. Peppei: to Taste. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

Bake the potatoes, and, when they 
are done, cut off the tops, and scoop 
out the meat into a hot bowl; mash 
very fine, and add the butter, the 
milk and salt and pepper. Some add 
a little grated Gruyere cheese; this 
is a matter of taste. Beat all till 
very light, and add the beaten whites 
•of two eggs, and stir lightly, Pill 
the potato skins with this prepara- 
tion, heaping the flaky potatoes nice- 
ly on top. Brush over lightly with 
the yolks of the eggs, set in the oven 
tfo brown and serve hot. 



Potatoes as a Garnish. 

Pommes de Terre pour Garniture, 
6 Potatoes. 
Beef, Veal or Mutton Drippings. 
Select nice, round potatoes, if you 
wish to roast them with beef. Wash 
them, clean, boil, or, better, steam 
them; peel and lay them in the 
pan with the beef or mutton or 
veal, and let them brown awhile be- 
fore the meat is done, basting them 
when you baste the meat with the 
drippings from the roast. Place as 
a garnish around the roast, and bring 
to the table hot. 

SAVEET POTATOES. 

Des Patates Douces. 
Sweet potatoes may be boiled, 
baked, fried or made into purges, and 
used in puddings and pies. The sweet 
potato is one of our most common 
Vegetables. Possessing saccharins 
properties, it is especially nourishing 
and palatable. 

Cooking the sweet potato is an art, 
for the delicate flavor of the potato is 
lost if it is not properly cooked. As 
mentioned above, sweet potatoes may 
be boiled, steamed or baked. Baking 
is the best method of preserving the 
flavor, and steaming is better than 
boiling. Sweet potatoes cannot be 
'properly cooked, if they are cooked 
too quickly. Time is an essential ele- 
ment. To properly bring out the 
flavor of the sweet potato in baking, 
it should be kept at least an hour in 
the oven. The old Creole negroes oft- 
en bal^e the sweet potatoes in ashes, 
covered with coals. The old corn 
field slaves used to put the potatoes 
in the ashes after one meal, go back 
into the field,, and leave it there till 
the next meal. The delicate flavor 
was most grateful. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 
Patates Douces Bouillles. 
6 Potatoes. A Drawn Butter Sauce. 
' Wash'"the potatoes well, using a 
cloth Or* brush, and removing every 
particle ■'of earth. Clip the edges of 
the roots that adhere. Put them to 
boil in a kettle of boiling water, and 
let them cook till they may be easily 
pierced with a fork. "Thfen drain off 
the water, and set the kettle on the 
back of the stove., Cover and let the 
'potatoes steam a few minutes. Take 
them out after five minutes or so, 
and peel and serve them with Drawn 
Butter Saupe, or cut in slices and 
spread butter over them, and set in 
the oven for a few seconds, and serve 
hot with daubes, fish, grlUades, etc. 
Sweet potatoes are in particular the 
vegetable that is served -jvith roast 
pork. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes. 
Patates Douces Frites. 
4 Potatoes. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Cut the boiled potatoes lengthwise 
in slices. Fry in very hot butter un- 



217 



til brown, and serve hot. This is a 
very nice way to utilize left-over po- 
tatoes! 

To fry uncooked potatoes, the great 
breakfast dish for fast days among 
the Creoles, slice the potatoes not 
lengthwise, but by rounds, and fry 
in boilirig lard. Bring to the table 
when a beautiful brown, and eat with 
butter, spread generously over. 

Street Potatoes au Caramel. 

Patates Douces au Caramel. 

i Potatoes. Boiling Lard or Butter. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Boil the potatoes and then cut 
them lengthwise in halves. Fry in 
boiling lard or butter, and, while 
frying, sprinkle generously with su- 
gar. This is a delicious sweet en- 
trfie. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Patates Douces Roties, 
6 or 8 Potatoes. 1 Tablespoonful ot -Butter. 
' Wash the potatoes, and scrub the 
skins, but do not peel them. By rub- 
bing the skins of the potatoes lightly 
all over with a little lard, butter, or 
fat bacon, it will render the skins 
soft and pliable to the touch when 
baked; they will peel readily, with- 
out crumbling from dryness, as baked 
potatoes often do, the peeling com- 
ing off in thin strips, leaving the po- 
tato intact. Put the potatoes in a 
baking pan in the oven, and let them 
cook until their centers are mellow 
to the touch. Serve in their jackets 
Immediately. Serve with roast meats, 
daubes, grillades, etc., or as a Fri- 
day dish, to be eaten with butter. 

To roast potatoes with meat or 
pork, wash and boil the potatoes well, 
and a half hour before the roast pork 
or beef is done pare the potatoes, 
drain well, and place- in the baking 
pan, around the pork or beef, and 
baste frequently with the drippings 
from the roasting meat. Or put in 
the pan without boiling, and bake a 
half hour longer. The former is the 
best method. 

Sweet Potato Fritters. 

Patates Douces en Beignets. 

4 Boiled Sween Potatoes. 

1 Glass of Milk, White Wine or Brandy. 

1 Teaspoonful ot Sugar. 

Juice ot Lemon. Powdered Sugar. 

Cut the boiled sweet potatoes into 
slender round slices, and steep them 
for a half hour in a little "White 
Wine or brandy or milk. Then make 
a light batter, to which you will 
have added a tablespoonful of su- 
gar. Add the juice of a lemon to the 
Making potatoes. Take each slice 
at a time, dip it in the batter, and 
let it drop from the spoon into the 
boiling lard. When fried to a nice 
. golden brown place on a piece of 



brown paper, and drain in the oven. 
Then place in the dish in which they 
are to be served. Sprinkle with 
powdered white sugar, and serve hot 
as a sweet entremet. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 

Pouding de Patates Douces. 

6 Sweet Potatoes. 3-4 Pound ot Pine Sugar. 

3-4 Paund of Butter. 

The Zest of a Lemon, Grated Fine. 

1 Wineglass of Good Brandy. 
Vi Grated Nutmeg. ' 4 Ground Allspice. 

1 Piece of Ground Cinnamon, 
1 Pint ot Milk or Cream. 
Boil or bake the potatoes, peel and 
press them through a very fine sieve, 
the finer the better. Add to them the 
yolks of six eggs, and beat well. Then 
add the butter, beating well and 
thoroughly, and add the sugar and 
milk. Beat all very light, and add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. - Mix thoroughly, and add 
the grated nutmeg, ground spices, 
'and blend well with the potatoes. 
Add finally, if desired, a wineglassful 
of good old brandy or whisky, and 
set the pan with the potatoes in an 
oven, and let it bake for an hour. 
Place a brown "paper on top for the 
first three-quarters of an hour, and 
take it off at the last quarter for the 
frangipane to brown nicely. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and serve hot 
or cold. 

Sweet Potato Waffles. 

Gaufres de Patates Douces. 

4 Left-Over Potatoes. 
Other Ingredients In Proportion Glren. 
This is a good way to utilize left- 
over potatoes. To every two table- 
spoonfuls of mashed potatoes add one 
of butter, one of sugar, one pint of 
milk, and four tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Beat all well together, and add 
one egg, well beaten. Bake In waf- 
fle iron, and serve with butter spread 
over. 

Sweet Potato Pone. 

Pain de Patates Douces. 

4 Large Sweet Potatoes. 
1 Teacuptul of Brown Sugar. 
1 Teacupful ot New Orleans Molasses. 
1 Teacupful ot Milk. 
1 Teacupful ot Butter. 4 Eggs. 
The Zest ot One Lemon, Grated. 
A Small Bit ot Orange Peel Grated Very Fln«. 
Vi Teaspoonful of Nutmeg. 
% Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 
H Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 
Grate the potatoes and the zest of 
the lemon and orange. Beat the 
eggs well; beat the butter and sugar 
till creamy, add the eggs, beat well, 
then add the grated potato and spices 
and milk; beat all well together; 
add the grated zest of the orango 
and lemon, put the mixture in a well- 
buttered pan and bake slowly for 



218 



about an hour. It may be served 
hot or cold cut in slices. It is de- 
licious when served at luncheon cold 
with a glass of fresh milk. 

PEPPERS. 

Du Piments. 

More peppers are raised in Louisi- 
ana than in any other section of the 
country. The hot varieties, or "Pi- 
mentos," as the Creoles call them. 
"Chili," "Red Pepper," "Cayenne," 
"Tabasco," etc., are used extensively 
for seasoning- and for making our 
famous Creole pepper sauces. The 
mild varieties, "Sweet Peppers," or 
"Green Peppers," "Mangoes," etc., 
are highly esteemed, and are used 
not only in- making salads, but in 
other delightful dishes. The Creoles 
are famous for the uses to which 
they have adapted all peppers. 

• GREEJT PEPPERS. 

Des Piments Verts. 

Green Peppers may be used in sal- 
ads, as seasonings for various dishes, 
or they may be stuffed or sautfid. 
For Green Pepper Salads see recipe 
under chapter, on "Salads." 

Stuffed Green Peppers. 

Piments Verts Farcis. 

2 Dozen Fresh Green Peppers. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
% Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 
% Inch of Boiled Ham. i Clove of Garlic. 
% Cup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed Thor- 
oughly. 

Parboil one dozen of the peppers. 
Then take off the skins and cut the 
topmost tip, and clean the inside of 
the peppers, throwing these seeds' 
away. Then take a dozen or more 
raw peppers, cut off the stalk or 
stem, and clean the insides of all 
seeds, throwing the seeds away. Chop 
the peppers very fine, and then put a 
tablespoonful of butter on the fire. 
Add one-half of an onion, minced 
fine, and let it brown slightly in the 
butter. Then add the peppers, mincedi 
very fine, almost mashed into a jelly, 
and the half Inch of ham, minced 
very fine. As these brown, add the 
clove of garlic, minced fine, and when 
the peppers are well-cooked add one- 
half a cup of bread that has been wet 
in water and squeezed thoroughly. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste, 
and let It brown. Add a dash of 
Cayenne pepper. When the stuffing' 
is well browned and well seasoned,' 
take from the stove and stuff the 
peppers. Sprinkle a little grated 
bread crumbs on top, and a dot of 
butter on each pepper top. Put it in 
the stove, let it brown, and serve hot 
with meats, broiled or roasted, chick- 
en, etc. 



Green Peppers SantCd. 

Piments Verts Sautfis. 

1 Dozen Large Green Peppers, 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Chopped Shallots. 2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

A Da^h of Sweet Tapioca. 

Salt to Taste. 

Plunge the peppers into hot boiling 
fat and rub off the skin. Then cut 
them into halves and cut off the stem 
and take out the seeds. Carefully 
cut away the ribs and let the peppers 
sautg for ten minutes in a table- 
spoonful of butter. Then moisten 
with a. pint of consommfi; season with 
the cliopped shallots, parsley and 
sweet paprica, and let all cook slow- 
ly for a half hour, or until done. 
Prepare fancy slices of toast, and 
'serve the peppers on these with a 
delicate garnish of chopped yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs. 

MANGOES. 

Mangos. 

This is a bright, waxy, golden-yel- 
low sweet pepper, very brilliant and 
handsome, and exempt from flery 
flavor, and may be eaten as readily 
as an apple. Mangoes are generally 
served as an appetizer (hors d'oeu- 
vres.) 

PUMPKIN. 

Des Citrouilles — Des Giraumonts ou 
Potiron. 

We have two varieties of pumpkin 
in Louisiana, one a large immense 
globe pumpkin, and the other a more 
delicate and much more highly ap- 
preciated variety, called the Cashaw. 
. The former is called by the Creoles 
"Citrouille," and the latter "Girau- 
YnoHt," or "Potiron." Both are cooked 
according to the following methods: 

Sterred Pumpkin. 

Citrouille a. la CrSole. 

2 Pints of Pumpkin or Cashaw. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Mace. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 
1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 

2 Gills of Good Whisky or Brandy. 
Cut the pumpkin into halves and 

then into quarters, and pare. Then 
cut it into pieces of about one inch 
square. Place them all in a deep 
pot, and add suiHcient water to cov- 
er. Let the pumpkin stew slowly 
for about an hour, stirring frequently 
to prevent burning. Then take out 
of the pot, press through a colan- 
der, and set back on the stove. Add, 
for every, pint of , pumpkin, two large 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and a half 
teaspoonful of salt, one of- ground 
mace, one of ground cinnamon and 
one of ground allspice. A gill of 
good whiskey or brandy may be add- 



219 



ed, and improves the flavor. Mix all 
thoroughly, and add sugar to taste. 
Let It simmer slowly for half an 
hour longer, and serve hot with 
daubes, Grillades d, la Sauce, etc. 
If the pumpkin coolts till very ten- 
der, so that it mashes easily, it need 
not be pressed through a colander. 

If the Citrouille, or large pumpkin 
Is used, never cook all in one day. 
Cut it in half, and save the other 
half for some other day in the week. 
The Cashaw will depend on the size. 
Generally one is cooked at a time. 
Left-over pumpkin can be utilized 
In making pumpkin pie. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Baked Pampfetn. 

Giraumont Eoti. 

2 Pints of Fampkin or Cashaw. 
A Dressing of Butter or Gravy. 

Cut the pumpkin in halves and 
then into quarters. Two quarters 
are enough for a family of six, if 
the pumpkin is large. Remove the 
seeds, but do not peel the rind. Place 
in a baking pan with the rind down- 
wards, and bake until so tender that 
it may be pierced easily with a fork.. 
Serve in the rind at th« table, helping 
it by spoonfuls. It is eaten with 
butter or gravy. 

Baked pumpkin is liked by some, 
but the majority of the Creoles pre- 
fer the stewed pumpkin. The above 
Is the recipe that has been in use 
for generations. Once eaten in this 
way, you w^iU never look again upon 
a baked pumpkin or. Cashaw. 

RADISHES. 

Des Radis. 

Radishes are eaten as a relish, or 
hors d'oeuvres. They are great ap- 
petizers, and help the digestion. 

The "Half Long Scarlet French 
Radish" is the only red Radish raised 
for the New Orleans market, and it 
is said that all the other cities of the 
Union put together do no* consume 
as much of that one variety as New 
Orleans does. 

There is an art in preparing the 
radish properly for the table. Cut 
the tops, and save them for Gumbo 
aux Herbes. Throw the radishes into 
a bucket of cold water and wash 
well. Have at hand another bucket 
of water. Cut the remaining tops 
about an inch from the body of the 
radish, so that only the dainty green 
will appear. Hold the radish by the 
top root, upwards, and cut the skin 
downwards in four or six parts, with- 
out detaching the radish from the 
stalk. In other words, open as you 
would an orange, without breaking 
to pieces. Throw the radishes into 
the fresh bucket of cold water, and 
In about fifteen minutes they will 
'have opened like a rose, and the ef- 
fect of the white against the red Is 



very pretty. Fill glass bowls with 
these, using taste in arranging, and 
you will not only have a very dainty 
dish, as far as a relish is concerned, 
but a pretty table decoration. 

Another way is to scrape the rad- 
ish in spots or lengths, alternating 
so that there will be a streak of red 
and one of white. The radish is not 
cut open in this case. Either way 
is pretty and inviting, if properly 
done. One or two dainty leaves may 
be left near the stalk to improve the 
appearance of the dish. 

Radishes may be served at break- 
fast, dinner or luncheon. The horse- 
radish is used as an appetizer, and 
also in sauces. 

ROQ,UETTE. 

Roquette. 

This is a salad vegetable, resemb- 
ling Cress in taste. It is served as 
a salad in the same manner, and is 
very popular with the Creoles. 

SALSIFY, OR OYSTER PLANT. 
Salsifis. 

All recipes given for cooking par- 
snips may be applied to Salsify, 
which, by the way, is considered the 
most delicate of the two, both be- 
longing to the same order. Salsify 
partakes somewhat of the flavor of 
oysters, hence the name "Oyster 
Plant." (See Parsnips.) 

Oyster Plant a la Cr6me. 

Salsifls a. la Cr§me. 

A Bunch of Fcesh Oyster Plant. 

% Pint of Cream Sauce. 

Wash and scrape the roots of the 
plant thoroughly. Then throw theiii 
into cold water immediately as you 
scrape them, or they will turn black 
and appear unpalatable. Have ready 
a kettle of boiling water, and cook 
for an hour, or longer, till tender. 
Drain and serve with a Cream Sauce 
poured over. (See recipe Cream 
Sauce.) 

Oyster Plant a la Ponlette. 
Salsifls a, la Poulette. ' 

A Bunch of Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

^ Pint of Sauce a la Ponlette. 
Prepare exactly as in the man- 
ner indicated above, using instead 
of the Cream Sauce a Sauce a. la 
Poulette. 

Oyster Plant Sant£d In Butter. 

Salsifis Sautes au Beurre. 

A GooS Bunch of Oyster Plant. 

4 Tahlespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

4 lablespoontuls of Flour. 

A Tablespoonful of Salt. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

A Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

A Pinch of Black Pepper. 

Scrape the oyster plant well and 
throw into cold water into whiph 



220 



put two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to 
prevent the salsify from turning 
black. Take from the water, drain 
and cut into pieces one and a half 
inches in length. Put into a sauce- 
pan with two tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar and flour well mixed and cover 
with a quart of cold water. Add a 
tablespoonful of salt, cover well and 
let boil slowly for three quarters of 
an hour. Drain and return to the 
saucepan and add two tablespoonfuls 
of the best butter, the pepper, 
chopped parsley. Juice of a lemon, and 
a pinch of black pepper. Mix well 
and let it heat for Ave minutes, toss- 
ing almost constantly. Put into a 
deep dish and serve hot. 

Salsify Pr«t..er. 

Salsifis en Beignets. 

A Buncli of Salsify. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Cup of Water. 2 Eggs. . 

Vi Pound of Flour. ' 1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 . Teaspoonful of Pepper. 

Clean and scrapp the salsify and 
boil as directed in recipe Boiled Par- 
snips (see recipe) till very tender. 
Then cut into long, narrow strips. 
Make a batter by mixing the flour 
with the yolks of the eggs, beaten 
well. Then add the salt and pepper, 
and gradually one cup of water, till 
it is absorbed. Then add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Mix thoroughly. Add the salsify to 
the batter. Dijp, out one spoon at a 
time of the batter, and fry in boiling 
lard. Serve as an eijtrSe at dinjier. 

SPIINACH. 

Des fiplnards. 

Spinach is one of the healthiest of 
vegetables, but, unfortunately, it is 
generally so badly prepared by the 
majority of cooks as to be not only 
most unrelishable, but unsavory as 
well. The great art in cooking Spin- 
ach is to cook it just long enough 
and no longer? to drain thoroughly 
and to have it of Just such consist- 
ency as will enable it to retain a 
neat shape when arranged on a dish 
in mound shape. The most impor- 
tant point in cooking Spinach is to 
drain it perfectly dry the moment It 
Is taken from the flre. If allowed to 
cook too long, it loses its color. If 
it stands in the water it becomes 
tasteless. The following are the Cre- 
ole methods of serving Spinach. It 
is one of the cheapest of all dishes 
served among the Creoles, and a very 
good dish, too. 

Spinach, Flnln Boiled. 

fipinards au Naturel. 

% Peck of Fresh Young Spinach. 
1 Cupful of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Always select young and tender 
fepinach. Carefully pick it over. 



and reject ■ all wilted leaves and 
coarse fibers and nerves. Cut oft the 
roots. Wash and drain it well In 
cold water, and press out all the 
water. It will take about halt a 
peck or four pints, to make a good 
■dish, as it boils down. Put the spin- 
ach in a kettle, and add one cupful 
of water. Place on a moderate fire 
and let it simmer for ten minutes. As 
soon as it appears to wilt, take off 
the Sxe, for that is all the cooking 
that is needed. Then drain the spin- 
ach of all water through a colander, 
and then press through a very fine 
sieve, to drain off the remaining wa- 
ter from the vegetable. Chop the 
spinach very fine. Then put a ta- 
blespoonful of butter in a saucepan, 
•and add the spinach to it. Stir well. 
Add a few spoonfuls of water, just 
sufficient to thin, if a little thick, 
and let it heat thoroughly. Other- 
wise, if of the right consistency, no 
water need be added. Good judg- 
ment must here prevail. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste. 

At this point the spinach may be 
served in various ways, as Spinach 
a, la Cr6me, Spinach au Jus, Splnacfh 
with Hard-Boiled Eggs, Spinach a. la 
iMaltre d'Hotel, etc. The plain boiled 
'spinach may be served with vinegar 
as a salad. (See recipe under Chap- 
ter on Salads.) 

Splnacli a la CrKme. 

£:plnards a. la Cr&me. 

% Pe?k of Spinach. 1 Cupful of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Tablespoonful 

of Powdered Sugar. 

6 Croutons. 

A Cream Sauce. 

Prepare the spinach as above. 
When ready to take from the sauce- 
ban, have ready slices of buttered 
toast, or Crotitons fried in butter. 
Roll the Croutons in sugar before 
frying. ■ Heap the spinach in little 
mounds upon them, sprinkle lightly • 
with sugar, and pour over a Cream 
Sauce (see Cream Sauce), and serve 
hot. 

Spinach an Jus & la Bourgeolse. 

fipinards au Jus k la Bourgeoise. 

% Feck of Spinach. 
2 Hard-Boiled or Poached Eggs. 
1 Cup of Gravy or Consomme. 

Boil the spinach according to the 
above recipg. When ready to take 
from the saucepan, after adding the 
butter and seasonings, put it in a 
saucepan and pour over a cup of 
roast beef gravy or consommfi, let 
it cook for twenty minutes, and serve 
hot. 



221 



Spinach with Hard-Bolled Ksss. 

fipinards aux Oeufs Durs. 

% Peck o( Spinach. 
1 Cupful of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 
Boil the spinach and prepare to 
the point indicated in recipe for Spin- 
ach (Plain Boiled). Then take the 
spinach from the saucepan, and ar- 
range in a mound on a dish, and 
garnish with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Splnnch & la Mattre d'Hotel. 

fipinards 3, la Maltre d'Hotel. 

% Peck of Spinach. 1 Cupful of Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. A Sauce a la 
Maltre d'Hotel. 
Prepare the spinach as directed 
In recipe Plain Boiled Spinach. Pour 
over a Sauce a, la Maltre d'Hotel, 
cook a few minutes, and serve hot. 

Spinach ft la Cnlslniere. 

fipinards 3, la CulsinlSre. 

H Peck of Spinach. ^Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Cup of Milk. 

6 Toasted Croutons. 

Prepare the spinach as above, hash 
fine, and put in a saucepan with a ta- 
blespoonfoil of butter. Season with 
salt and pepper, add.a tablespoonful 
of flour, mixed with a cup of milk 
and a sgoon-' of •Welted butter, and 
serve with toasted dice Crofltons on 
the spinach. 

BEET TOPS, RADISH TOPS, TUR- 
NIP Tops, etc. 

Never throw away any beet, turnip, 
or radish tops. They may all be 
cooked in the same manner as spin- 
ach au Jus, or they may b^ cooked 
with salt meat, and make very good 
and healthy dishes. The humble Cre- 
ole families in New Orleans prepare 
turnip tops and beet tops in such a 
way that a king might not (j'S^ain 
what is commonly held as l^ltchen 
refuse. 

All these may be made Intp nice 
purges. (See recipe for making pu- 
rees.) 

SORREL. 

De rOseille. 
Sorrel is used for various pur- 
poses In the kitchen. It is made into 
soups and purSes, served as a salad, 
or cooked in exactly the same man- 
ner as in the recipe fOr cooking spin- 
ach. (See recipes Spinach.) 

PurSe of Sorrel. 

Purfie d'Oseille. 
In preparing Sorrel after this re- 
cipe, make a purge, to be served as a 
vegetable or as a soup. (See re- 
cipe.) A vegetable purge is of course 
of far denser consistency than a pu- 
rge intended for soup. 



Sorrell au Gras. 

Oseille au Gras. 

Prepare the sorrel in exactly the 
same manner as spinach, or "£pi- 
nlrds au Jus." (See recipe.) Reject 
all fibrous portions. After you have 
scalded It, it is important to drain 
thoroughly. Then chop and press 
through a colander. Garnish nicely 
with CroQtons fried in butter. 

Sorrel is very acid, and to those 
who do not like much acidity this 
may be modified by mingling with 
equal parts of spinach or lettuce. 

Sorrell au M.v.lg;re. 

Oseille au Maigre. 

Prepare exactly as above, only, in- 
stead of using broth or gravy, add 
milk and the well-beaten yolks of 
two eggs. 

SaXTASH. 

Courge. 

3 Young Squash. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the squash into quarters and 
pare and remove the seeds. Then cut 
into small squares of about an inch. 
Wash in cold water, and then put into 
a porcelain-lined or agate saucepan, 
and half cover w^ith water, for squash 
is a watery vegetable. Let it simmer 
gently for about twenty minutes or 
half an hour. Then drain through a 
colander, pressing gently. Mash the 
squash very fine after draining, and 
retlirn- to the'^saucepan. Add two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter, and salt and 
pepper to taste, and stir until thor- 
oughly heated, and it begins to sim- 
mer gently. Do not cease stirring, or 
it will burn. Serve hot. This is the 
most delicate way of serving squash, 
and the' only one that the good taste 
of the Creoles will tolerate. Baked 
squash are often served, but stuffed 
squash and the like offend the good 
ethics of the Creole kitchen. 

TOMATOES. 

Des Tomates. 

Like the onion, tomatoes are among 
the indispensible adjuncts of good 
cooking, entering, as they do, so much 
into the good seasoning and delicate 
fiavoring of various dishes. They are 
also excellent in salads. (See Sal- 
ads.) Tomatoes, however, form very 
dainty dishes, when cooked, and 
among' these are the following: 

StcTTcd Tomatoes. 

Tomates SautSes. 

12 Tomatoes. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sugar. 1 Onion. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

^ Cup of Bread Crumbs. 1 Inch of Ham. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 
Leaf. 
Scald the tomatoes, and let the wa- 
ter remain over them about five min- 



222 



utes. Then peel the tomatoes, slip- 
ping the skins off easily, and cut 
them* into small pieces. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into a saucepan, 
and as it melts add the onion, which 
you will have chopped very fine. Let 
it brown, and add one inch of ham, 
chopped very fine. Then add the to- 
matoes, and let them brown, slowly 
adding in the meantime a half cup 
of dry bread crumbs. Let all sim- 
mer gently, and add "One sprig each 
of thyme, parsley and bay leaf. Stew 
gently for -an hour longer, and serve 
hot. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Tomates Grill6es, 

6 Tomatoes. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 lablespooQfal of Chopped Parsley. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Take six tomatoes and cut them in 
halves on the cross. Do ■ not peeU 
Put them on the broiler and broil on 
a slow flre till tender. Turn the 
broiler from one side to the other 
often, to prevent burning. In about 
ten minutes they will be done. Put 
on a hot dish; put a little melted but- 
ter, a little chopped parsley and the 
juice of a lemon on each, and serve 
hot 

Fried Tomatoes, 

Tomates Prites. 

6 Nice, Ijarge, Firm Tomatoea. 
1 Ege. % Gup of Bread Crumbs. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Jiard. 
Slice the tomatoes very thin, and 
then dust with salt and pepper. Beat 
the egg very light. Dip the toma- 
toes first in this and then In the 
bread crumbs, and drop into the lard, 
, covering the bottom of the pan. When 
brown on one side, turn on the other. 
Turn carefully with the cake turner 
into a heated dish. Keep warm while 
you are frying the rest, and serve 
very hot. 

Tomatoes an Gratln. 

Tomates au Gratin. 

S Tomatoes. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Gup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scald and skin the tomatoes. Then 
place a layer of them at the- bottom 
of a baking dish, cover with a layer 
of bread crumbs, spread very thick, 
and season with salt and pepper and 
dots of butter at Intervals. Continue 
in tliis way till the last layer is 
reached, finishing with a layer of 
bread crumbs, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dot with butter, and put in 
an oven to bake for an hour and a 
quarter. Canned tomatoes will re- 
quire about half this time. 



Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Tomates en Coquilles. 

6 Tomatoes. 1 Cup of Grated Bread CramtM, 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed exactly as above, only 

bake the tomatoes in layers in small 

cups or silver shells. 

Stnffed Tomatoes, 

Tomates Farcies. 

6 Tomatoes. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Cup of Wet, Bread, Squeezed Thoroughly, 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

1 Clove of Garlic (If desired.) 1 Onion. 

%, Inch of Ham. 

Wash the tomatoes, selecting fine, 
large, smooth ones for this purpose. 
Either cut the tomato in two, or else 
cut one slice from the stem end. 
Scoop out the inside of the tomato, 
and put it in a dish and save the 
skins. Take one onion and one 
quarter of an inch of ham and chop 
very fine Put a tablespoonful of 
butter into a saucepan, and add the 
onion, letting it brown nicely. Then 
add the ham. Let It brown. Add 
the Insides of the tomatoes, and then 
add, almost instantly, a cup of bread 
that has been wet and squeezed. Beat 
all well together as It fries, and add 
salt and pepper to taste. Let it cook 
well, and then take off, and stuff the 
tomatoes, cut In halves or whole. The 
former is the daintier way. Sprinkle 
the tops with bread crumbs, and dot 
with butter. Place in the oven for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, till brown, 
and serve hot with filet of beef or 
chicken, etc. 

Stuffed Tomatoes ft la CrSole. 

Tomates Farcies a, la CrSole. 

U Found of the White Meat of a Chicken. 

2 Inches of Ham. 

1 Egg. 1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

t Onion, lUInced Fine. % Cup Bread Cnimbt. 

Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Chop the chicken meat very fine. 
Cut the tomatoes into halves, and 
scoop out the insides without break- 
ing the outer skins. Take the inside 
meat and chop fine. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into the saucepan, 
and as it melts add the chopped on- 
ion, and let it brown. After a few 
minutes, add the ham and chicken, 
and let these brown. Then add the 
tomatoes, and, as they brown the 
bread crumbs. Add the minced herbs 
and a clove of garlic. If desired. (The 
garlic must be added before the to- 
matoes, if It is used.) Let all sim- 
mer gently. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper and a dash of Ca- 
yenne. When well cooked, remove 
from the fire, when about the con- 
sistency of thick starch. Let it cool 
slightly, and then stuff each tomato 



22^ 



shfijl. Sprinkle bread crumbs gratecl 
on top, and dot with butter. Place in 
the oven for about half an hour, and 
serve as an entremet with chicken 
or veal. 

TomatU Salad. 

Tomates en Salade. 
See recipe under chapter on Sal- 
ads. 

Paric; of Tomatoes. 

Pur4e de Tomates. 
See recipe under chapter oh Soups. 

TURNIPS. 

Des Navets. 

Turnips are cheap in New Orleans, 
and many delightful dishes may be 
made with them, if properly pre- 
pared. The turnip tops also make 
good, substantial home dishes, that 
none should disdain. The Creoles, 
who have applied the art of cooking 
to the most humble even of the vege- 
table kingdom, have learned to so 
prepare turnip tops as to make them 
a welcome dish on the most exclusive 
tables. 

Turnips are largely used, like the 
tomato and onion, though not to such 
an extent, in seasoning food sub- 
stances. They are indispensible with 
the pot-au-feu, the bouillon, or the 
well-made consommg. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Purge de Navets. 
6 Turnips. 2 TaMespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Xaate. 
Wash and pare the turnips, and cut 
them into quarters, and cover with 
boiling water and boil until very 
tender, which will be in about thirty 
to forty-five minutes, according to 
the tenderness of the turnips. If you 
boil them whole it will take an hour 
and a quarter. If you cut the turnips 
as soon as tender take out of the wa- 
ter and drain through a colander of 
all water. Then press them lightly, 
to squeeze all remaining water out, 
and hash well. Add a tablespoonful 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 
and serve l^ot. Serve with roast 
meats or roast ducks. 

Turnips, may be mixed with equal 
quantities of potatoes, mashed and 
buttered. 

Plain Boiled Turnips. 

Navets Bouillis au Naturel. 

6 Tomips. A. Dra-wn Hotter Sauce. 

Boil the turnips whole, selecting 
very tender ones. They will require 
about an hour of boiling. Always 
use hot water in putting on the tur- 
nips. Drain off water, when tender, 
and serve with a Drawn Butter Sauce, 
pepper and salt. Serve with roast 
beef, mutton or roast duck. 



Creamed Turnips. 

Navets k la CrSme. 
6 Turnips, A Cream Sauce, 

Cut large turnips in quarters for 
this dish. Small t>nes may be boiled 
whole. When tender, drain and put 
into a colander and press out all wa- 
ter. Then make a rich Cream Sauce 
(see recipe) and pour over the tur- 
nips. Serve with boiled leg of mut- 
ton, either by placing the turnips 
around the leg of mutton on the dish 
and pouring the sauce over, or sepa- 
rate, as a vegetable. 

Turlnps Baked With Mutton. 

Mouton ' Roti aux Navets. 

6 Turnips. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Roast Mutton Drippings. 

Boil the turnips until nearly ten- 
der. Then drain in a colander. If 
-very large, cut in quarters; if small, 
let them remain uncut. Day them on 
the pan, around the roasting leg of 
mutton, and let them bake about an 
hour, basting frequently w^ith the 
drippings from the mutton. When 
done, place around the leg of mutton 
hs a garnish, and serve. 

Glazed Turnips. 

Navets Glac6s. 

,6 Turnips of Uniform Size. 

1 Tablespoonful ot Sugar. 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt to Taste. 

Select fine, small and tender tur- 
nips of uniform size (top the heads 
and the stems, and remove the skins, , 
but not too closely, lest they should , 
break up when boiling. Then take 
a frying pan large enough for the 
turnips to lie in it, side by side. Put 
the butter in first, and when melted 
add the turnips. Then sprinkle with 
the sugar and water, and season with 
salt to taste. Set on the back of the 
stove, where they can simmer gently 
for an hour. When nearly done, and 
tender all through, add a tablespoon- 
. ful of flour, mixed in water, blended 
well. Then set in the oven, with a 
paper on top. Let them stand for 
about half an hour and use as a 
garnish for beef, veal, etc. The tur- 
piss will be nicely glazed, and will 
make the dish appear very beauti- 
ful. 

Turnips Fried in Butter. 
Nayets SautSs au Beurre. 

6 Turnips. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the turnips according to di- 
rections, and, when very tender, drain 
in a colander. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter into a frying pan, and when 
it is hot, add the turnips. Season well 
with salt and pepper, and, when nice- 
ly browned, dish on a hot platter 
knd serve with roast ducks. 



224 



Boiled Turnip Tops A la Creole. 

Navets & la Creole. 

Vi Peck of Turnip Greens. 

I Tablespoonful ot Salt and a Found of Presb 

Fork or 1 Found of Salt Fork. 

Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the turnip tops, and put into 
a kettle of boiling water with a piece 
of fresh or salt pork. Let them 
boil slowly till tender, and then sea- 
son well with salt and pepper. When 
tender, take out and chop, but not 
too fine, or leave them Just as they 
are. Drain of all water, and serve 
as you would boiled cabbage, piling 
the turnip tops around the dish, and 
the salt meat or pork ia the center. 

Again, the Creoles boil the white 
turnips with the greens, cutting the 
former portions into quarters or semi- 
quarters, according to their size, 
and chopping the greens after cook- 
ing. Bat with pepper vinegar, as 
you would boiled cabbage. 

TRUFFLES. 

Des Truftes. 

The Truffle is a most expensive 
vegetable. It belongs to the family 
of Mushrooms, and is a subterranean 
production, of a fishy, fungous struc- 
ture and roundish figure. Its aroma 
Is particularly marked, and it is much 
esteemed by epicures, for, when 
mixed in proper proportions it adds 
a zest and flavor to all Sauces for 
Fish, Filets of Beef, Turkey, Chick- 
en, Game and Omelets that cannot 
be found in any other plant in the 
entire vegetable kingdom. The name 
"Truflle" Is supposed to be derived 
from the French "Truffe," or the 
Spanish "Trufa," signifying deceit or 
Imposition, the growth of the plant 
under ground seeming to accord with 
the name. 

Truffles come prepared in cans, be- 
ing put up in France, those of "Peri- 
gord" being the brand most in use. 
The Creoles use Trufiles mostly as a 
condiment for fish, meats, stuffings 
for poultry, game, etc. They are 
very expensive, costing as much as 
$3 a can, and a small can at that. 
In cooking filets, they are prepared 
simply "Truffge," or whole or cut in 
halves, or "a, la Perigueux," that is, 
the Truffles are cut or minced very 
fine. They are also served after the 
following majiner as entremets or 
hors d'oeuvres. 

Truffles in Spanish Style. 

Truffes a. I'Espagnole. 

10 Truffles. 

2 TaWeapoonfuls , of Salad Oil or Butter. 

1 TabWspr— ful of Ulaced Parsley. 

3 Flnfc.y Minced' Shallots. 

3 Sprigs of Minced Parsley. 

% Glass ot White Wine. Sauce Espagnole. 

Slice the Truffles very fine, and 



place in a saucepan on a slow fire, 
with a tablespoonful of butter or two 
of oil, salt and pepper to taste and 
the minced parsley and shallots. Af- 
ter letting them smother for a few 
minutes, moisten well with the White 
Wine or Champagne and a Sauce Es- 
pagnole, using equal proportions of 
the wine and sauce. Quicken the fire 
slightly, and let them cook slowly 
till done. Skim off all grease, and 
serve hot with ragouts, etc. 

Truffles With CliampaKiie. 

Truffes au Vin de Champagne. . 
6 Truffleo. 1 Glass of Champagne. 
Make a "Marinade," that is, a liq- 
uor with spices and vinegar; set to 
cook, and add a glass of champagne. 
Add the Truffles, and season again to 
taste. Let all cook for upwards ot 
half an hour. Then take the Truffles 
from the sauce. Let them cool, and 
serve on a folded napkin as an hors 
d'oeuvre. 

Truffles on Minced Toast. 

TrutEes en Croustades. 

4 Truffles. 2 Tablespoonfuls ot Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

8 Croutons Fried In Butter. 

Prepare the Truffles as in the "ic- 

cipe "a I'Espagnole," or simply "S, 

,1a Pro3v«nQale," that Is, sltoe' them 

very fine, let them stew or sauter 

them in butter., and -Season well with 

salt and pepper- and the clove of a 

garlic minced very fine. When done, 

add the Juice of a lemon. Take some 

slices of bread, cut in fancy shapes, 

and fry in butter, or toast. Cover 

each piece with some of the Ragout 

of Truffles, and serve hot. 

VEGETABLE PEAR. 

Mirliton. 

The Vegetable Pear, or "Mirliton," 
as the Creoles have named this vege- 
table, belongs to the gourd family. 
It is known to botanists by the name 
of the "One-Seeded Cucumber." Like 
almost all the gourds, the plant is 
a vine, and is trained by the Creoles 
upon trellis, fences or arbors around 
their homes. It is not only a very 
ornamental vine, but an abundant 
bearer. The fruit, if properly pre- 
pared, as the Creoles know so well' 
how to prepare it, is a delightful 
dish, and is of a very much finer 
flavor than eggplants, squashes or 
pumpkins. It may be cooked In a 
half dozen ways, stuffed and stewed 
and fried, as the eggplant (see re- 
cipes), or stewed or baked, like the 
pumpkin, squash or cashaw. It is 
particularly flne when prepared like 
stewed cashaw. (See recipes.) It 
may also be made into fritters, like 
eggplants, or bakei cakes. In any 



225 



way that it is served it is delicious, 
and is a great favorite with the Cre- 
oles, especially the little children. 

me:i,ons. 

Des Melons. 

The New Orleans market cannot be 
excelled by any market in the world 
in the splendor and variety of the 
Melons found in the beginning of the 
summer, and till late in the fall, in 
Us great market stalls and fruit 
stalls, which Intersect every portion 
of the city. Especially is this the 
case with the Muskmelon, or Cante- 
loupe. No northern variety of melons 
can compare with our special vari- 
eties, and it is familiarly said that 
It requires Louisiana sun to bring 
the seed to perfection. Muskmelons 
and Watermelons are among our 
most common articles of food, and 
are within the reach of all classes, 
rich and poor, white and black, in 
season. The Creoles serve Melons 
both as a fruit and a dessert. 

MUSKMEJIiON. 

Cantaloup. 
Muskmelons, or Canteloupes, are 
cultivated extensively in the vicinity 
of New Orleans. The quality is fine, 
and the flavor delicious. They are 
served by tire Creoles' both as a, fruit 
and as a dessert — as a fruit at the 
beginning of breakfast, and as a 
dessert at the close of luncheon or 
dinner. The melon is always served 
very cold,. beirn«. kept tfn ice several 
hours before Serving, and when cut 
in halves ^nd cleansed of seed, 
crushed ice is placed within each 
half, and It is brought to the table 
and served. It is a most refreshing 
accompaniment to bi-eakfast, at 
which meal it is more generally 
served. 

WATERMEIiON. 

Melon d'Bau. 
The Watermelon is as great a fa- 
vorite among the Creoles for lunch- 
eon and dinner and supper desserts as 
the Muskmelon is a general breakfast 
and luncheon favorite. Indeed, at all 
hours during the summer, except in 
the early forenoon, a watermelon is 
considered in place as a most refresh- 
ing and welcome summer offering. 
Watermelons are kept on ice contin- 
ually by fruit dealers, and whenever 
a family chooses to have a "Melon 
on Ice," they have simply to send to 
the fruit stand within the radius of a 
square, and a splendid rosy-fruited 
melon is to be had, cold and delicious, 
and just ready to be cut. The Cre- 



oles as a rule, cut the melon In 
great round slices, so that each per- 
son may have a piece of "the heart" 
of the fruit; or it may be cut in 
lengthwise sljces, according to taste. 
The new-fangled practice of "scoop- 
ing the melon out with a spoon," 
and thus serving it, is distegarded by 
the Creoles. The only proper way to 
eat a melon and enjoy it is in the 
good old Creole style: Give every 
guest a fine round slice, glowing with 
"a heart of red," and thus will the 
fruit be enjoyed as it deserves. 

GARDEN HERBS. 

The old-time garden herbs are part 
of every well-regulated Creole kitch- 
en garden. Thyme, Sage, Rosemary, 
Mint, Sweet Marjoram, B&,sil, Laven- 
der, Anise, Carraway, Bene, Borage, 
Catnip, Coriander, Dill, Fennel, Hore- 
nound, Pot Marigold, Pennyroyal, . 
Rue, Summer Savory, Tansy, Tarra- 
gon, Wormwood— all these thrive in. 
our gardens, and are used by the 
Creole housewives, some for culinary, 
■ others for medicinal purposes. "The 
Bouquet Garni," or herb bouquet, has 
already been spoken of in the begin- 
ning of this book. To prepare such 
herbs as Sage, Thyme, Summer Sav- 
ory, Mint, Basil, or any of the sweet 
or m'eijiclnal herbs, for winter use, 
the Creole housewife gathers them 
from her own little garden patch 
when they are fresh in their season, 
or she procures them from the mar- 
ket^. After examiniins' them well, 
and discarding all poOr or sickly" 
looitlng sprigs, she w^ashes and 
shakes the§h-erbs. Then she ties 
them into sAiall bundles, and ties an 
old pifece of mosquito netting about 
them, to keep them from picking up 
any dust. The herbs are then hung, 
leaves downwards, in a warm, dry' 
place. In a few days they will be 
thoroughly dry and brittle. She then 
picks all the leaves off, and puts them 
in clean large-mouthed bottles, and 
corks and labels them. When needed 
for use, they, are rubbed very fine 
between the fingers and passed' 
through a sieve. The bottle is always 
kept corked, as exposure to the air 
will cause the herbs to lose strength 
and flavor. 

Herbs, such as Sweet Marjoram, 
Thyme, etc., are in daily use in our 
kitchens. In like manner the Creole 
housewife gathers the leaves of the 
Laurel, or Bay Leaf, and, after wash- 
ing and drying thoroughly, the leaves 
are bottled for use. But fresh herbs 
are nearly always to be found in our 
gardens. , , i 



CHAPTER XXX. 

RELISHES. 

Hors d'Oeuvres. 



Hors d'Oeuvres are relishes and 
may be served either hot or cold. 
Ordinarily, in daily household life, 
only the cold hors d'oeuvres, such as 
cress, celery, olives, radishes, etc., 
are served; they are set upon the 
tables as a decoration and passed as 
appetizers or relishes between the 
courses. At more formal affairs, hot 
hors d'Oeuvres are served, some of 
them being most elegant and re- 
cherche dishes. The hot hors d'oeu- 
vre does not preclude the cold at 
the same dining. 

The following form the list of the 
greater number of 

Cold Relishes. 

Hors d'Oeuvres Frolds. 

BadishTes, Celery, Olives, Cress, 
Lettuce, Roquette, Pickled Onions, 
Sliced Cucumbers, Sliced Tomatoes, 
Pickles, Mangoes, Melons, Ancho- 
vies, Sardines, Lyonnaise Sausage 
(Saucissons Lyonnaise), Bread and 
Butter, 1 Crackers, Anch,ovy Sand- 
wiches, Ham Sandwiches, Cheese 
Sandwiches, Bologna Sausage cut and 
sliced. Cold Ham, Pigs' Feet, a Craw- 
fish Bush (Buisson d'iicrevlsses), a 
Shrimp Bush (Buisson de Chevrettes), 
Boiled Crawfish, River Shrimp on 
Ice, Oysters on Half Shell, Raw Oys- 
ters, Sliced or Quartered Lemon, 
Salted Almonds, Salted Peanuts, Ca- 
napes of Caviare, Ham, Crab, etc. 

Among the more elegant 

Hot Relishes 

(Hors d'Oeuvres Chauds) 

may be mentioned the following: 

Petits pates au Jus (or small hot 
patties of meats, etc.), Boudins Noirs 
et Blancs (Boudin Sausages, white 
and black), Rissoles, Sausages with 
or without Truffles, Rognons a, la 
Brochette or Broiled Kidneys, Pigs' 
Feet, Bouchfies d'Huitres or Oyster 
Patties, Fried Brains (whether 9f 
mutton or veal). Calves' Feet, Oxtail . 
with Vinegar or Mustard Sauce. 

Almost all the above named Hors 
d'Oeuvres, whether hot or cold, have 
been already treated in the special 
departments, whether of vegetables 
or meats, to which they pertain. The 
subjoined recipes, however, have been 
especially prepared, the number and 
variety of our Creole Hors d'Oeuvres 
being such as to. warrant a special 
chapter on the subject. 



Anchovies in Oil. 

Anchoix a, I'Huile. 

1 Pint Bottle of Boned AncbOTlea. 

1 Eard-Bolled Egg. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Take the contents of one pint bot- 
tle of boned Anchovies; drain them 
of all oil on a cloth and then ar- 
range nicely in a flat glass or china 
celery or radish dish. Take a hard- 
■boiled egg, hash or slice daintily and 
decorate the dish with this. Sprinkle 
over some chopped parsley and serve. 

' Sardines In Oil. 

Sardines 3. I'Huile. 

1 Box of Sardines. 
'Parsley to Garnish. 

Take the sardines carefully from 
the box and avoid breaking them. 
Decorate a dish nicely with sprigs of 
parsley or watercress and lay the 
sardines upon, it and serve. 

Coqnllles of Chicken, Creole Style. 

Coquilles de Volaille a, la CrSole. 

The Breast of a Roasted Chicken. 

1 Ounce of Butter. 1 Truffle. 

4 Mushrooms. 1 Dozen GodlTean Quenellei. 

VA Pint of 'Madeira Sauce. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Cut the chicken into dice-shaped 
pieces; take an ounce of butter and 
place in a saucepan; add the chicken; 
chop four mushrooms and one truffle 
and add. Make a dozen small Godi- 
veau Quenelles (see recipe), and add 
to the mixture in the saucepan; pour 
over a half pint of Madeira Sauce 
(see recipe), stir well and let all. 
cook for five minutes. Take a half 
dozen table shells and fill with this 
mixture. Sprinkle grated fresh bread 
crumbs over the tops, spTerad a little 
melted butter over each and place the 
shells on a baking dish. Place in a 
very hot oven and let them brown 
to a beautiful golden color. This 
will requft-e about six minutes. Place 
a folded napkin on a dish, set the 
shells upon it and send to the table 
hot. 

Cromeaqnles with Truffles. 

Cromesquies aux TrufEes. 

1 Boasted Chicken. 2 Trnfflei. 

1 Pint of Veloute Sauce. 

6 Pieces of Creplnette. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. A Dash of Nutme*. 

Roast the chicken, then bone and 

hash the meat. Make a pint of Vel- 



227 



out6 Sauce; chop the truffles very 
fine and place ..the chicken and the 
truffles and sauce in a saucepan to- 
gether. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper, and add a dash of nut- 
meg. Cover and let all cook for ten 
minutes, occasionally, however, stir- 
ring to prevent burning'. Then take 
from the fire and let cool by pouring 
Into a flat dish. Spread out to about 
an inch in thickness and divide into 
six parts. Prepare six pieces of Cre- 
pinette and roll each one of the six 
parts of chicken Into the skin. Have 
ready a flour batter and dip each Cre- 
pinette into the batter and fry In 
boiling lard for five minutes, or un- 
til slightly brown. Drain thoroughly 
on a cloth, place a nice folded nap- 
kin on a dish; set the cromesqules 
upon it; decorate with fried parsley 
and serve hot. 

Cromesquies of game, veal or any 
meats may be made in the same man- 
ner, 

Creole Timbales. 

Timbales Creoles. 

2 Raw Chicken Breasts. 

I Cup of Bread, Soaked in Hllk. 

% Tablespoontal of Bntter. 

The Yolks of Four Eggs. 

3 Tablespoonfnls of Yeloate Sance. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

6 Plain Pancakes. 1 Gill Madeira Sauce. 

Cut up into medium-sized pieces 
two raw chicken breasts; pound them 
in a mortar with the same quantity 
of bread soaked in milk, a half ta- 
blespoonful of fresh butter and the 
yolks of four eggs; season with salt 
and pepper and a dash of Cayenne; 
mix all well together, and then mix 
In a bowl with three tablespoonfuls 
of Veloute Sauce. (See recipe.) But- 
ter the half dozen small timbale 
molds and line them with plain pan- 
cake. (See recipe). Fill the molds 
with the chicken mixture and cover 
with small round pieces of pancake. 
Steam them In a moderate oven for 
about ten minutes. Then take out 
of the oven and remove the timbales 
from the mold; garnish a hot dish 
nicely with sprigs of parsley, place 
the timbales upon it, pour over a 
gill of hot Madeira Sauce and send 
to the table hot 

Qneen of the Carnival Cronstades. 

Croustades a. la Reine du Carnaval. 

6 Qnenelles (Chicken or Godivean). 2 Troffles. 

1 Sweetbread. 6 Kidneys. 

1 Pint of Allemande Sauce. 

% Glass of White Wine. 

% Pound of Foundation Paste. 

Cracker Dust for Filling. 

Prepare six Quenelles, either chick- 
en or Godiveau (see recipe) and place 
in a, saucepan with a half glass of 
white wine. Seasoti the wine first 
with a little salt and pepper. Add 



the mushrooms and the truffles all 
cut into dice-shaped pieces. Poach 
for six or eight minutes, and then 
take one pint of hot Allemande Sauce 
and put all this mixture into it. Let 
all stand on the hot stove for five 
minutes and in the meanwhile spread 
out a quarter of a pound of Foun- 
dation Paste (Pa,te-a.-FonPsr, see re- 
cipe) to the thickness of an eighth of 
an inch; line six tartlet molds with 
this and fill with cracker crumbs 
that have been pounded into a dust. 
Cover with a buttered paper and set 
in the oven and bake for ten minutes. 
Then take out, remove all the crack- 
er dust and fill the molds with tha 
hot mixture of chicken, etc. Set In 
the oven for three minutes, dress 
nicely on a hot dish and serve hot. 

Lamb STreetbreads In Cases, 

Biz de Veau d'Agneau en Petites 
Caisses. 

e Lamb Sweetbreads. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Glass of Madeira Wine. 

I Small Onion. 1 Sballot. S Mushroom!. 

% Clove of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parslejr. 

1 Sill of Sauce Espagnole. 

Clean and pare and blanch the 
sweetbreads. (See recipe.) Then set 
aside to cool. Lard nicely with very 
fine larding needles. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan 
land add the sweetbreads. Pour over 
one glass of Madeira Wine, cover 
well with the onion, shallot, mush- 
rooms, clove of garlic and parsley, 
all minced very fine. Cover with a 
piece of buttered paper and set in 
the oven for ten minutes or until 
they are a nice golden brown color. 
Then take out of the oven and lay 
the sweetbreads on a dish. Set the 
saucepan back on the stove and add 
a gill of Sauce Bspagnole (see re- 
cipe.) Let all cook for five minutes. 
Have ready six small boxes of but- 
tered paper; pour a little of the gra- 
vy in the bottom of each case, then 
place a sweetbread in each and set in 
a baking dish; set the dish in the 
open oven for five minutes; then ar- 
range a napkin nicely in a dish, set 
the cases of sweetbreads upon it and 
send to the table hot. 

Macaroni Croquettes. 

Croquettes de Macaroni. 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Tablespoonful of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cooked Smoked Tongue, 

Cut Very Fine. 

1 Minced Truffle. 1 Egg. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Fresh Bread 

Crumbs. 
Boil the Macaroni. (See recipe.) 
Then drain well. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter into a saucepan, add the 



228 



Macaroni, and sprinkle over the grat- 
ed cheese and the minced smolced 
tongue and truffle. Toss all together 
nicely and then spread out evenly. 
Then set aside to cool. When cool, 
cut the preparation into six equal 
parts and roll each in grated Par- 
mesan cheese, then in a well-beaten 
egg, and afterwards in freshly-grat- 
ed bread crumbs. Have ready a pan 
of boiling lard, fry the Croquettes in 
the lard for five minutes, then drain 
well, place on a dish on a folded nap- 
kin and serve hot. 

Royal Salpicon. 

Salpicon Royale. 

Sweetbreads. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

12 Mushrooms. 2 Truffles. 

1 Pint of Sauce AUemande. 

Clean, pare and blanch the sweet- 
breads. Then cut into very small 
pieces and put them into a sauce- 
pan with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter; let them saut€ a moment and 
then add the mushrooms and truffles 
all cut very fine. Add a pint of 
Sauce AUemande (see recipe), and let 
the mixture cook on a slow fire for 
six or eight minutes, tossing gently 
all the while. Add a teaspoonful of 
butter, stir well and use for any gar- 
nishing desired. 

Salpicon, Hunters' Style. 

Salpicon a la Chasseur. 
The Breasts of 2 Fine Partridges. 
1 TablespooDful of Butter. 12 Whole Peppers. 
1 Glass of Madeira Wine. 
1 Class of Good Sherry Wine. 
6 Blanched Chicken Livers. 
1 Carrot. % Onion. 

1 Ounce of Cooked Beef Tongue. 
2 Truffles. € Mushrooms. 1 Bay Leaf. 
1 Sprig of Thyme. Sguare Inch of Lean Ham. 
1 Quart of Consomme or Broth. 
Cut the breasts of the Partridges 
Into dice-shaped pieces, and then put 
them into a saucepan with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Pour over a glass 
of good Sherry wine and set on a 
hot fire. Add the blanched chicken 
livers, the truffle cut into dice-shaped 
pieces and the mushrooms cut very 
fine. Have already, prepared a "Fu- 
met of Game," made by placing one 
carrot, one-halt of a small onion, one 
bay leaf, one square inch of ham, 
one sprig of thyme, and the carcass 
of the partridge Into a covered sauce- 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter. 
Let these brown well and add a glass 
of Madeira Wine. Let it come to a 
boil, then moisten with one quart of 
broth or consommg, and salt and pep- 
per to taste; add twelve whole black 
peppers. Let all cook for three- 
quarters of an hour, until it is re- 
duced to a pint, and strain through 
a napkin. Add this to the salpicon 
and let all cook for five minutes long- 
er. Use as a garnish for any dish de- 
aired. 



Creole Salpicon. 

Salpicon a. la Crfiole. 

2 Dozen Crawfish. 3 Tomatoes. 

1 Dozen Mushrooms, 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Pint of Boiling Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 12 Whole Black Peppers. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
into a saucepan and add the flour; 
fetir constantly for about five min- 
utes; then moisten well with the 
milk, pouring it in gradually and 
then whisking. Add the grated nut- 
taeg, salt to taste, and the twelve 
whole peppers. Add a herb bouquet, 
minced fine, and let all cook for a 
quarter of an hour. Then rub well 
through a sieve; and put into a sauce- 
pan with the tomatoes, skinned and 
chopped fine, and the meat of the 
crawfish cut into dice-shaped pieces, 
and the minced mushrooms. Let all 
cook for five minutes and serve. 

Louisiana Salpicon. 

Salpicon Louisianaise. 

50 Lake Shrimp. 1 Dozen Mushrooms. 
1 Truffle. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Grated Nutmeg. 1 Herb Biyuquet. 
1 Glass of White Wlnt>. 
3 Tomatoes. 
' Clean aad' scale the Shrimp anci 
tioil according to" recipe. Then fol- 
low in all particulars the recipe giv- 
en above for Salpicon Creole, with 
the exception that White Wine is 
used instead of milk, and a truffle 
Is added to the minced vegetables. 
Send to the table hot. 

Salpicon fl la Montglas. 

Salpicon a. la Montglas. 

The Breasts of 2 Small Chickens, or Any 
Game. 
1 Ounce of Lean Ham. 
1 Gill of Madeira Sauce. 
1 Gill of Tomato Sauce. 
6 Mushrooms. 1 Truffle. 

Mince the breasts of the chicken 
or game very fine, mince the ham 
'truffles aftd mushrooms, and put all 
into a saucepan with, a gill of Ma- 
deira Sauce and one gill of Toma- 
to Sauce. Let all cook for five min- 
utes, and then use as a garnish. 

Salpicon, Financier Style. 

Salpicon a, la Financifere. 

The Legs and Breasts of a Chicken. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Dozen Small Godlyeau Quenelles. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 1 Truffle. 

S Mushrooms. 1 Pint of Madeira Sauce. 

Cut the chicken into dice-shaped 

pieces, and put into a saucepan with 

the butter; add the square inch of 

ham, the truffles and mushrooms, all , 

minced fine; and then add twelve 



229 



small Godiveau Quenelles. (See re- 
cipe.) ■ Add a pint of Madeira Sauce 
(see recipe) ; set on the stove, and 
let all cook for five or eight min- 
utes, and the Salpicon is ready to be 
served as a garnish for any dish 
desired. 

R«ed Bird Fatties. 

pates d'Ortolans. 

1 Dozen Reed Birds. 1 Salpicon Bo7al. 

Vi Pound ol Foundation Paste. 

Pick and clean the birds and sea^ 
son well; then bind each with a thin 
strip of bacon. Make a Foundation 
Paste (Pat6-a,-Foncer) and line six 
patty molds with this. Put in a 
moderate oven and bake for fifteen 
minutes; then empty them and let 
them dry well in the open oven for 
five minutes. Let them cool. Then 
fill the bottom of each mold with a 
tablespoonful of Salpicon Royal (see 
recipe), and place in each mold two 
of the nicely prepared birds. Lay 
the patties on a baking dish or 
roasting pan and set in the oven, 
whose heat must be moderate, and 
let them roast for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Then remove from the 
oven, moisten each patty with a ta- 
blespoonful of hot Madeira Sauce, and 
send to the table hot. 

Tamales. 

Des Tamales. 

1 Tender Young CliiclseQ. 

1 Cup of Boiled Irish Potatoes. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leal. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Spoon of Butter. 

1 Cup of Cracker Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper, to Taste. 

A Good Dash of Cayenne. 

Boil a young chicken until the 

meat can be picked off the bones. 

_ Then chop up very fine. Mince the 

<>nion, clove of garlic, thyme, bay 



leaf, and parsley, very flne. Put the 
onion and butter' into a saucepran and 
let brown slightly; and add the 
minced' garlic, thyme, parsley and 
bay leaf. Add the chicken immedi- 
(ately and one cup of mashed pota- 
toes and grated cracker crumbs. Stir 
well, and season to taste with salt 
and Chili pepper. Add a good dash 
of Cayenne, for this, is a very hot 
dish. Mix all well by stirring and 
let cook for five minutes. Have ready 
a pot of boiling water and . about a 
dozen nice, clean corn-shuck leaves. 
Cut the leaves into nice oblong 
shapes, and divide the chicken mix- 
ture into equal parts. Roll each of 
these parts into a Qorn leaf and tie, 
and immerse in- boiling water for 
five minutes. Then drain off the wa- 
ter, arrange the husks on a dish and 
send to the table hot, serving Just 
before the meal begins as an appe- 
tizer. This is a famous Mexican* 
Creole Hors-d'Oeuvre. Tamales are 
also eaten hot for supper or luncheon. 

Pickled Tunny. 

Thon Marine. 

In New Orleans we only get the 
tunny in its pickled or other pre- 
pared states. Take a radish or flat 
celery dish; decorate nicely with 
"fresh parsley sprigs, or cress, or as- 
paragus tips; lay the tunny upon it, 
and serve as a cold Hors d'Oeuvre. 

I 
liyonnalse Snnsage. 

Saucissons de Lyonnaise. 

12 Thin Slices of Lyonnaise Sausage. 

Parsley^ Sprigs' to Garnish. 
Cut from a medium-sized Lyonnaise 
sausage twelve nice and very thin 
slices; decorate a dish nicely with 
parsley leaves on the outer edges. 
Lay the saucisson de Lyons in the 
center and serve as a cold hors 
d'oeuvre. 



CHAPTER XXXI. 
SWEET EXTRBMETS. 

Des Entremets SucrSs. 



Sweet entries and entremets are 
■^not the least part of the real Cre- 
ole cuisine. The ancient French 
colonists brought the custom of serv- 
ing sweet entremets and entrfis, such 
as Belgnets, Compotes, Soufll6s, Ge- 
16es, etc., from the old mother country 
■ to Louisiana. The Creoles appHied 
these to the various delightful and 
refreshing fruits which abound In 
Louisiana. When the little Creole 



children, taking a peep into the 
kitchen, as children will do in every 
clime, saw that the fat and cheery 
■old negro cook was going to make 
'Apple Fritters, Orange Fritters, or 
cook fried bananas for dinner, there 
■was always some very endearing 
'term applied to the old Creole cui- 
'siniSre, and she never failed to re- 
spond in the wholesome and practi- 
cal way that ' the Creole cooks of 
those days did, by handing a beauti- 



230 



ful golden beignet, piled with snowy 
sugar, to the expectant little ones. 
The custom of serving these sweet 
entremets spread from 'New Orleans 
to other portions of the United States, 
till now no fastidious chef would 
think of keeping a fashionable hotel 
or restaurant without including some 
of these in the daily bill of fare. 
The following are the ancient and 
most accepted forms of preparing 
sweet entrfies and entremets a. la 
Creole. All compotes of fruits may 
be served either as entremets or des- 
serts. 

FRITTBRS. 

Des Beignets. 

The most important rule to be ob- 
served in making fritters, whether 
of fruit or plain, is to have the bat- 
ter of the proper consistency. This 
Is particularly important in making 
fruit fritters. "La Pates k Beignets," 
as the Creoles call the batter, must 
be of sufficient consistency to en- 
velop in one single Immersion the 
fruit or other substance with which 
It is intended to make the fritters. 

Fritter Batter ft la CrSoIe. 

pate a Beignets a la CrSole. 

1 Cup Flour. 2 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfuls Brandy. 

14 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Cold Water. 1 Tablespoonful Butter, Melted. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs well, 
and add the flour, beating very light. 
Now add the melted butter and the 
brandy, and thin with water to the 
consistency of a very thick starch. 
Add the whites- of eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, and then dip the fruit 
Into this, immersing well at one dip- 
ping. Lift out with a large cooking 
spoon, drop into the boiling lard, 
and fry to a golden brown. The 
batter must be thick enough to coat 
the fruit all around in one immer- 
sion, yet it must not be so thick as 
to be over-heavily coated or tough. 

Many of the Creoles substitute, 
according to the fruit which they 
intend to make into fritters. White 
Wine or Sherry or lemon juice for 
the brandy. A fruit fritter must al- 
ways be sprinkled nicely and lightly 
with powdered sugar, and, if served 
as an entremet, it must be hot. Fruit 
fritters often take the place of des- 
serts among the poorer Creole fam- 
ilies. 

French Fritter Batter. 

pate a Beignets a la Frangaise. 

1 Cup of Sifted Flour. % Cup of Cold Water. 

2 Egga. H Cup of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Best Olive Oil. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Brandy or Orange Flower 

Water. 
hi Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Beat the whites well Into a stiff 



froth. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
into the flour until very light, and 
add the sugar, blending well. Add 
brandy or orange flower water, and 
beat light, and then add the water 
and oil, making the batter of the 
consistency of a very thick starch. 
Now add the whites of the egg, 
beat well, and proceed to drop in the 
fruit, as in above recipe. 

Plain Fritters. 

Beinnets de Pate. 

1 Pint of Flour. 1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. i Eggs, 

Tbe Zest of Half a Lemon. 

Vi Cap of Sugar. E'lavorlng to Taste. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
"whites separate. Sift the baking 
powder into the flour, and add the 
yolks of the eggs, well beaten. Beat 
well, and add the milk, and flavor- 
ing of orange, vanilla or brandy to 
taste. (The flavoring may be omit- 
ted altogether.) Add the zest of a 
lemon, grated very fine, and salt in 
quantity given above. Lastly, add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, 
and have the batter of such consist- 
ency that it will pour from the 
spoon. Drop it in the boiling lard 
by large kitchen spoonfuls, and let 
It fry to a golden yellow. (See Gen- 
eral Directions for Frying.) Lift out 
with a skimmer, and drain and placs 
on a heated dish, and sprinkle freely 
With powdered white sugar, and serve 
hot. In arranging them in the dish, 
make the fritters rise into a pretty 
pyramid and sprinkle with the su- 
gar. Never pierce fritters with a 
fork, as it will cause the steam to 
evaporate and make the fritters 
heavy. A fritter that is well made 
should be light and puffy. 

Plain Fritter Batter for Meats, Poiil> 
' try, etc. 

pate a Beignets pour les Viandes, les 
Volailles, etc. 

1 Cup Flour. 1 Cup of Water. 2 Eggs. 

hi Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
the flour together, and add the melted 
butter and the salt. Then add the 
water, and beat well, and finally add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Some add a half teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. This is ac- 
cording to taste. If the eggs are 
"well beaten, there will be no need 
for the baking powder. 

This batter is used in making pork, 
kidney or chicken fritters, or frit- 
ters of left-over meats, and also for 
all meats or fish which must be 
rolled In batter. 



231 



Apple Fritters. 

Beignets de Pommes. 

3 Fresh Apples. 

1 Gin of Brandy or Ram (if desired). 

Grated Feel of ^ Lemon. 

'Powdered Sugar. 

Peel and core the apples, which 
will be all the nicer if they are a lit- 
tle tart. Take out the seeds and 
core. Cut them into slices, more or 
less thick or thin, according to 
taste. The thin slices are recom- 
mended. Soak them in brandy or 
good whisky, or rum, for the space 
o£ two hours, sprinkling with the 
grated zest of a lemon and sugar, 
according to judgment. Two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar should be suf- 
ficient for the zest or rind of half 
a lemon. Make a batter a, la Crgole 
and have ready a deep saucepan of 
boiling lard. Drain the apples. , Dip 
the slices, one at a time, into the 
batter, lift out with a large kitchen 
spoon, drop into ttue balling lard, 
and fry to a golden brown. Then 
lift out with a skimmer, and set on 
brown paper, in the mouth of the 
oven, and drain. Sift powdered white 
sugar over them, and. serve hot, pil- 
ing high in pyramidal shape, and 
sprinkling again with powdered 
white sugar. Serve as an entremet 
or as a dessert. The liquor may be 
omitted, and the apples simply cut 
Into very thin slices; then proceed 
with the dropping in batter and fry- 
ing. 

Apricot Fritters. 
Beignets d'Abricots. 

6 Fresh or a Half Can of Apricots. 

1 Glass of Madeira Wine. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Grated Lemon Peel. 

If the apricots are fresh, peel and 
stone them, and cut into halves. Then 
sprinkle them with the grated zest 
of a lemon and sugar, and pour over 
them suflBoient Madeira Wine to 
thoroughly saturate. Cover and set 
aside for two hours. Then drain off 
the liquor. Make a Fruit Fritter 
Batter a, la Crgole, and have ready 
a saucepan filled deep with boiling 
lard. Dip the apricots, one by one, 
Into the batter, and drop from the 
spoon into the lard, and let them fry 
to a golden brown. In serving, pro- 
ceed in exactly the same manner as 
In the directions given for Apple 
Fritters. (See recipe.) 

Banana Fritters. 

Beignets de Bananes. 

3 Bananas. Fritter Batter a la Creole. 

Make a Fritter Batter a, la Creole. 
Peel the bananas and then cut them 
In halves. Slice them incely, accord- 
ing to length. Dip in the fritter 
batter, and proceed to cook and serve 



as In the recipe for Apple Fritters. 
The bananas may also be cut into 
round slices. In this case, two or 
three slices at a time must be put 
in each fritter. The method of cut- 
ting by lengths is recommended. 

Banana Fritters with Cognac or Rnm. 

Beignets de Bananes au Cognac ou au 
Rhum. 

3 Bananas. Fritter Batter a la Creole. 
Fritter Batter a la Creole. 

If "Beignets de Bananes au Co- 
gnac" or "au Rhum" are desjred, 
slice the banana and sprinkle with 
sugar, and cover with sufllcient Co- 
gnac or Rum to saturate well. Set 
them aside for half an hour, then 
drain, and proceed as in Apple Frit- 
ters. 

Brioche Fritters. 

Beignets de Brioches. 
3 Small Brioches. 
1 Tablespoonful of Essence of Vanilla. 
Lemon or Orange Flower Water. 
Creole Fritter Batter. Powdered White Sugar. 
Cut the Brioche (see recipe under 
chapter on Breads) into slices, more 
or less tliin, and soak them in sweet- 
ened milk, to which you have added 
the essence of orange flower water, 
vanilla or lemon. Drop them into a 
light fritter batter, or simply drop 
them into boiling lard, fry to a gold- 
en yellow, sprinkle with white su- 
gar, and serve. 

Cherry Fritters, 
Beignets de Cerises. 
1 Pint of Fine Cherries. 1 Egg. 
1 Pint of Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful of Madeira or Malaga Wine, 
1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 
The Zest of a Lemon. ' 

Prepare the cherries by taking out 
^the, stones. Make them into a thick 
marmalade, addipg a tablespoonful 
of Madeira or Malaga Wine. Soak 
nice slices of bread in milk and egg, 
seasoned well with a tablespoonful 
tof sugar and the grated zest of a 
lemon. Take the slices, when well- 
soaked, and spread the marmalade 
well over them, making it adhere very 
thickly and closely Into the mesh- 
es of the bread. Then fry in boiling 
lard, sprinkle nicely with powdered 
sugar, and serve hot. Or mix the 
cherries in Creole Fritter iBatter, 
drop by spoonfuls into the boiling 
lard, fry to a golden brow^n, drain 
in the oven, and sprinkle with pow- 
dered white sugar and serve hot. 

Com Fritters. 

Beignets de Farine de Mais. 
1 Pint of Corn Meal. 1 Pint of Boiling Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Eggs. Vi Cup of Sugar. Flavoring to Taste. 

Vi Spoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 

cornmeal together, and add the melt- 



232 



ed butter and the milk, stirring and 
beating well. Add the salt and any- 
flavoring extract preferred, and, last- 
ly, the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Fry in boiling lard, 
dropping in the lard by spoonfuls. 
By omitting the sugar you will have 
nice corn cakes to eat with butter. 
In this case do not use the same 
quantity of lard, but bake on a grid- 
dle. 

Elderflower Fritters. 

Beignets a. la Fleur de Sureau. 

1 Cup of Tender White Elder Flowers. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

White of 2 Eggs. Creole Fritter Batter. 

Select a sufficient quantity of beau- 
tiful, tender white flowers, and soak 
them in the whites of two eggs, beat- 
en to a snowy froth, and well blend- 
ed with white sugar. Dip them by 
spoonfuls into the fritter batter, and 
fry according to directions. This is 
an old time Creole recipe, almost 
lost in our day. 

Pig Fritters. 

Beignets de Figues. 

1 Pint of Fresh Figs. 

% Cup of Sugar. 
Creole Fritter Batter. 

Pare the figs, taking off every par- 
ticle of the skin. Then cut up nicely, 
sprinkle with sugar and let them 
stand for half r.n hour. Then add 
the Juice to fritter batter and pro- 
ceed as in Apple Fritters. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Fritters Souffle ft la Vanllle. 

Beignets Souffle a, la Vanille. 

8 Ounces of Flour. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

H Pint of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. The White of 1 Egg. 

1 Spoonful of Whipped Cream. 

1 Vanilla Bean, Powdered White Sugar. 

Put the milk into a a saucepan 
and infuse the vanilla bean, and let 
the milk reduce to one-half. Then 
remove the bean, and add a table- 
spoonful of butter, and, when it 
comes to a good boil, add the flour, 
well sifted; stir briskly till a stiff 
paste Is formed that will not adhere 
to the saucepan. Then take off the 
fire and add an ounce of powdered 
white sugar that has been beaten 
well with the yolks of two eggs. 
Have ready the white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff froth, and mix a 
spoonful of whipped cream with this, 
and add to the paste. Mix well, and 
then roll the paste out on a flour 
board that has been slightly sprink- 
led with flour, and sprinkle lightly 
on top with the flour. Cut into small 
cakes, drop into very hot lard, and 
let them cook to a golden brown. 
Then arrange nicely on a dish, sift 



powdered sugar over them, and send 
to the table hot. 

Lemon Fritters. 

Beignets de Citron. 

1 Pint of Creole Fritter Batter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

2-3 Cup of Sugar. 

Make a plain Creole batter for 

fruit fritters, and add the juice of 

a lemon, and sugar to taste, and 

proceed as directed in cooking and 

serving Apple Fritters. 

Orange Fritters. 

Beignets d'Oranges. 

2 Large Louisiana Oranges. 
Creole Fritter Batter. 

Pare the oranges, taking off every 
particle of the white inner skin. Then 
slice nicely, and take out the seeds. 
'Sprinkle with sugar, and let them 
stand for an hour. Then add the 
juice to the fritter batter, and pro- 
ceed as in Apple Fritters. Or, bet- 
ter still, place the oranges thus 
sliced over a slow fire, add a little 
water and several tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and let them cook till you 
have a light marmalade. Take it 
off, let it cool, cover the slices of 
orange well with the jellied Juice, 
dip in the batter, and proceed as di- 
rected in recipe for Apple Fritters. 
(See recipe.) 

Peach Fritters. 

Beignets de PSches. 

6 Fresh or Canned Peaches (14 Can.) 
Madeira Wine. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 
Grated Lemon Feel. 
If the peaches are fresh, peel and 
stone them, and cut in halves. Then 
sprinkle them with the grated zest 
of a lemon and sugar, and pour over 
them sufflcielit Madeira Wine for 
them to be saturated. Cover and set 
aside for two' hours. Then drain off 
the liquor. Make a Fruit Fritter Bat- 
ter a, la Creole, and have ready a 
saucepan filled deep with boiling 
lard. Dip the peaches, one by one, 
into the batter, and drop from the 
spoon into the lard, and let them fry 
to a golden brown. Then proceed in 
exactly the same manner of serving 
as in the directions given for Apple 
Fritters. (See recipe.) 

Pear Fritters. 

Beignets de Poires. 

3 Fresh Pears or 4 Canned Pears. 
Brandy or Hum (If desired). 
Grated Lemon Peel. Powdered Sugar. 
Peel and core the pears, which 
will be all the nicer if they are a lit- 
tle tart. Take out the seeds and core. 
Cut them into slices, more or less 
thick or thin, according to taste. 
The thin slices are recommended. 



233 



Soak them in brandy or good whisky 
or rum for the space of two hours, 
sprinkling with the zest of a lemon 
and sugar, according to judgment. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar ' should 
be sufficient. Make a batter a la Cre- 
ole, and have ready a deep saucepan 
of iDoUing lard. Drain the pears. Dip 
the slices, one at a time, into the bat- 
ter; lift out with a large kitchen 
spoon, drop into the boiling lard, and 
fry to a golden brown. Then lift 
out with a skimmer, and set on 
brown paper, in the mouth of the 
oven, and drain. Sift powdered 
white sugar over them, and serve 
hot, piling high in pyramidal shape, 
and sprinkling again with powdered 
white sugar. Serve as an entremet 
or as a dessert. The liquor may be 
omitted, and the pears -simply cut 
into very thin slices; then proceed, 
dropping In batter and frying. Serve 
as directed above. 

Pineapple Fritters, 

Beignets d' Ananas. 

% a Pineapple. Fritter Batter. 

% Cup of Sugar. 1 Gill White Wine. 

Slice the pineapple, and cut the 
slices in halves. Sprinkle with sugar 
and White Wine, and let them soak 
for an hour. Then proceed as in Ap- 
ple Fritters. Or, simply sprinkle 
with sugar, let them stand one hour, 
add the juice to the fritter batter, 
and proceed as above. 

Pineapple cream Fritters. 

Beignets d'Ananas a. la CrSme. 

% a Pineapple. % Oup of Sugar, 

1 Gill of White Wine. 

Cream Puff Paste. 

For these fritters it is necessary 
to make a Cream Paste. (See re- 
cipe.) Prepare the pineapple as in 
the above recipe; then dip in the 
Cream Puff Paste and proceed as in 
Apple Fritters. (See recipe.) 
Qtieen Fritters. 
Beignets a. la Reine. 
1 Cup of Cream Puff Filling. 
A Cream Puff Batter. 
Vi Cup of Grated Almonds. 
1 Glass of Sherry Wine. 
Cold Sherry Wine Sauce or French Sauce. 

Prepare a Cream Puff Baitter and a 
Cream Puff Filling. (See recipe.) If 
the flavor of almonds is desired, add 
a few finely-grated almonds that 
have been steeped in Sherry Wine. 
Have ready the frying pan, with 
boiling lard. Koll the cream batter 
into small balls, and fry till they 
swell to the size of an egg. Skim 
out with a skimmer, and drain, and. 
When cold, split one side with a very 
sharp knife, and All with the filling; 
close, and continue till all are filled. 
Serve cold with Sherry Wine Sauce 
or Peach Sauce, 



Rice Fritters. 

Beignets de Riz. 

1 Cup of Cold Rice. 

1 TablespoontuI of Butter. Yolks of 2 EggB.' 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange or Lemon Essence. 

A Pinch of Cinnamon. 

Take one cup of cold rice, mash it 
well, and then pass' through a sieve. 
Season with the orange essence or 
lemon, a pinch of cinnamon, and a 
tablespoonful of butter. Add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Then make 
the rice into small boulettes or balls, 
roll in a beaten egg, fry to a golden 
brown, sprinkle with white sugar and 
serve. 

Sago Croquettes. 
Croquettes de Sagou. 

Eyual Parts of Sago Marmalade and Rice 
Croquettes. 
Creole Fritter Batter. 
Port Wine Sauce. 
Prepare Croquettes of Rice (see re- 
cipe), adding equal parts of Sago 
Marmalade. Dip j in fritter batter, 
and fry to a golden brown, and serve 
with Port Wine Sauce. 

Strawberry Fritters. 

Beignets de Fraises. 

1 Pint of Fine Large Strawberries. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of White Wine. 

Grated Zest of ^ Lemon. 

For this purpose have fine, large 
strawberries. Make a Fritter Batter 
a, la Creole, only just before adding 
the whites of the eggs add the grated 
zest of half a lemon and two table- 
spoonfuls of White Wine. The bat- 
ter must be of the consistency of 
thick cream. Stem the strawberries, 
and drop them into the batter. Pro- 
ceed to fry as in recipe given for 
Apple Fritters (see recipe), allowing 
two or three strawberries to each 
fritter. Or make a marmalade of 
the strawberries, keeping them whole 
and proceed as in Orange Fritters. 
(See recipe.) 

Surprise Fritters. 

Beignets en Surprise. 

6 Nice, Small Ripe Apples. 

1 Glass of Brandy. 

The Zest of 1 Lemon. The White of 1 Egg. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

'/i Teaspoon of Ground Allspice. 

Take nice, small, ripe apples, and 
peel. them. Cut off about an inch at 
the top end, and then scoop out the 
interior, leaving the apple frame 
whole. Take out all the seeds and 
cores from these cuttings, and mince 
them very fine. Then put them into 
a dish and put also the apple 
frames, and cover them with brandy. 
Sprinkle well with the grated zest 
of a lemon and ground cinnamon 
and allspice, and add to the minced 



234 



portion of the apples a few apricots, 
well minced. After an hour, take the 
frames out of the marinade. Then 
drain the apple stuffing- of the brandy 
and add to it the white of an egg, 
well beaten to a stiff froth. Mix 
this well, and then fill the interiors 
of the apple frames with it. Cover 
with the pieces of apple that were 
taken from the tops, and which must 
be immersed in the marinade, like 
the frames, covering this opening 
well. Take the fritter batter, and 
immerse each piece gently, just 
enough for the batter to cover, and 
place in a frying pan of boiling lard, 
and fry to a golden brown. Place on 
a dish, sprinkle well with powdered 
sugar, and serve hot. Or the apples 
may be simply placed in the oven, 
sprinkled with sugar, a little wa- 
ter added, and let them bake till a 
beautiful golden brown. This is an 
excellent old-fashioned Qreole re- 
cipe. 

S-n-eet Omelet Fritters, 

Beignets d'Omelette au Sucre. 

A Plain Omelet. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Brandy. 

Creole Fritter Batter. Powdered White Sugar. 

Make an omelet (see recipe), and 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
a tablespoonful of good brandy. Cook 
It nicely and very soft, and then cut 
it into small slices. Plunge these in- 
to the fritter batter, let them fry to 
a golden brown, and then drain in 
the mouth of the oven on brown 
pepper. Place in a tieated dish, 
sprinkle well with fine white sugar, 
and serve hot. 

Steered Apples. 

Compote de Pommes. 

6 Apples, Large and Firm. 
Sugar to Taste. The Zest of Half an Orange. 

1 Blade Mace, 
1 Stick Ground Ciniiamon. i Ground Allspice. 

Pare the apples and out into quar- 
ters or semi-quarters, removing the 
cores and seeds. Add half a cup of 
water. Put them into an agate or a 
porcelain-lined saucepan; and strew 
generously with sugar. Let them 
simmer gently for half an hour. Then 
add the zest of half an orange, grat- 
ed, and the ground spices. Let all 
simmer gently till they form a rich 
tender compote, that is, until not the 
least semblance remains of being 
uncooked. This compote may be 
served hot during the meal, or it may 
be used as a dessert, with cream or 
milk. 

Apples may be stewed whole in the 
same manner, only remember to ex- 
tract the core with a fine knife. 



Baked Apples. 

Pommes Roties. 



6 Fine Apples. 
6 Spoonfuls of Sugar. 1 Cupful of Water. 

Cut the blossom end of the apple, 
and wash, but do not peel. Set them 
in a baking pan, heap a spoonful of 
sugar over each in the little place 
scooped out at the blossom end, and 
pour a cupful of water In the bottom 
of the pan; Set in the ovetl, and 
bake till very tender. Place in a 
Hish, pour Over the syrup, and serve 
either hot or cold. They are much 
nicer served cold, with a glass of 
milk. ' They are then used as a des- 
feert. 

Fried Apples. 

Pommes Frites. 

3 Fine Apples. Boiling Lard. 
% Cup of White Powdered Sugar. 
Pare the apples and cut into round 
'slices. Have ready a pan of boiling 
lard, a.»d fry to. a, delicate golden 
brcwn. Place in a .colander, . heated, 
and in which you: have placed a piece 
of brown paper. Drain in the mouth 
of the oven. Place in a dish, and 
sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot 
with roast meat, roast pork, etc. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Charlotte de Pommes. 

6 Large Apples. 6 Apricots. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Cup of Sugar, or Sugar to Taste. 
Pare the apples and then cut them 
into slices, taking out the seeds and 
core.' Then put them in a saucepan 
with three large tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Add a little water to stew 
gently, and add the apricots, if you 
have them. In this case use four 
tablespoonfuls of butter and ground 
cinnamon, and allspice to taste. Let 
all cook to a nice marmalade. Then 
take off and add a quarter of a grat- 
ed nutmeg. Then cut six slices of 
bread, and butter well. Butter a pan 
and garnish it around the bottom 
and around with the slices of bread, 
which must be very thin. Then fill 
with the apples, and cover on top 
with the bread. Dot with butter and 
sprinkle with sugar, and put in an 
oven and bake to a golden brown. 
When done, carefully loosen the 
edges and turn Into a dish. Serve tt 
hot, with sugar and cream, or with 
a Custard Sauce, flavored with good 
brandy. (See recipe.) 

Cherry Charlotte. 

Charlotte de Cerises. 

1 Pound Cherries. 1 Pound White Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

The Soft of Bread. 

Seed the cherries, and butter the 

bottom of a pudding dish. Cover the 



235 



bottom with a. layer of the bread 
crumbs which must be soft. Then 
add a layer of the cherries, which 
have been cooked like the apples, 
into a inarmalade. Sprinkle with 
sugar, and add another layer of cher- 
ries, and then a layer of bread 
crumbs, alternating till the dish is 
filled, letting the last layer be of 
crumbs, which you will dot with 
bits of butter. Put in an oven and 
bake for an hour. Serve cold with 
cream. 

Carrnnt Charlotte. 

Charlotte de Groseilles. 

1 Pound of Currants. 

1 Pound of Wliite Sugar. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

The Soft of Bread. 
Proceed exactly as for Cherry 
Charlotte, making a marmalade of 
the currants, and using the same 
proportion as above. 

RaspbeTTT or Blackberry Charlotte. 

Charlotte de Bramboises ou de MOres. 

1 Pound of Raspberries or Blackberries. 
1 Pound of White Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

The Soft of Bread. 
Stew the berries, making a marma- 
lade, and proceed exactly as in the 
recipe for Cherry Charlotte. 

Fruit Toasts "With Cherries, Apri- 
cots or Raspberries. 

Crofltes de Fruites aux Cerises aux 

Abricots ou aux Framboises. 

6 Slices of French Toast. 

1 Cup of Fruit Marmalade. 

Cream to Serve. 

Prepare thin slices of very dry 

French toast, and butter generously. 

Take a dish, and lay on each slice of 

toast generous allotments of the 

fruits you wish to serve. The fruit 

must be made into a marmalade. 

Pour all remains of syrup over the 

toast, and serve with cream. 

Fried Bananas. 

Bananas Frites. 

4 Bataanas. Boiling Lard. 

White Powdered Sugar. 
Peel the bananas, and cut them in 
two, lengthwise. Then slice length- 
wise about a quarter of an inch in 
thickness. Have ready a pan of 
boiling lard. Lay the bananas in it, 
and fry brown, first on one side and 
then on the other, sifting with a 
little powdered sugar. When done, 
skim out of the pan, place neatly in 
a dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar 
again, and serve hot, as an entrfie. 
This is a celebrated and cheap Creole 
dish, and is seen on the tables of all 
classes. The banana stalls in the 
French market are famous, and at 



every corner or so, here and there 
throughout the city, there are fruit 
stalls, where the banana is always 
to be found in a perfect state, and 
very fresh and inviting. Bananas 
are also served in their natural state, 
as a fruit dessert 

SteTved Peaches. 

Compote de Peches. 

10 Medium-Sized Peaches. 

1 Pint of Cold Water. 

% Pound of Granulated Sugar. 

1 GUI of Klrsch or BntHdy, if desired. 

Peel the peaches and out them into 
quarters, carefully removing the 
stones. Put them into a saucepan, 
with a pint of cold water and a half 
pound of granulated sugar; set on 
the stove, and, when they begin to 
boil, skim well. Then let them cook 
for six minutes longer, stirring slow- 
ly; avoid mashing the peaches. Re- 
move from the fire and add, if de- 
sired, a gill of Kirsqh or Brandy; 
tnix well and pour the peaches into 
a dessert dish to cool. Serve cold, 
either plain or ivith cream. The 
peaches may be boiled whole. 

Orange Salad. 

Salade d'Oranges. 

6 Fine Louisiana Oranses. 

3-4 Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

1 Glass of Bum or Brandy. 

Peel the oranges whole, removing 

the peel entirely down to the tips of 

the stem end. Cut in slices, and cut 

out the seeds. Pile the oranges in 

a neat heap in a dish. Sprinkle with 

powdered sugar. Boil some sugar to 

a syrup, using about half a pound to 

half a pound of oranges. Add a glass 

of rum or brandy, and, when cold, 

pour over the oranges and serve. 

Sweet Omelet Gntremets. 

Entremets d'Omelettes au Sucre. 
Rum Omelet, Omelette Soufflg, Ome- 
let aux Confitures, etc., are also 
served as Sweet Entremets These 
were specially treated under the 
chapter on "Eggs." (See recipes.) 

Wine and l/lquor Sntremets. 
Entremets au Vin et aux Liqueurs. 
Roman Punch, Punch a, la Cardi- 
nale, Sorbet k la Royale, and other 
fancy concoctions of ices or sherbets 
and liqueurs, are also served as en- 
tremets. Indeed, no elegant feast 
is considered complete without a 
Punch a, la Romaine, Ponche k la Car- 
dinale, or a Sorbet a. la Royale, etc. 
(See recipe.) 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Croxignolles. 

% Cup Sugar. ] Pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Flour In Sufficient Quantity to Make a Dougb. 

Scald the milk, and then add the 

butter, and let it stand and cool. 



236 



When it has cooled, add the yeast 
and the sugar, and beat in the flour 
gradually. Beat well, and then cov- 
er, and set the mixture in a warm 
place over night. But he careful to 
have the warmth only moderate. In 
the morning beat the eggs till very 
light, and stir them into the butter. 
Then add more flour, sufiicient to 
make a dough, which must be soft. 
Knead this dough lightly, and stand 
it away. to rise. When it has risen 
well, . take one-half of the dough 
and roll it on the biscuit board, and 
then cut into doughnuts, using a 
large cake or biscuit cutter. Then 
take a small cutter and make a small 
hole in the center of each doughnut. 
They may also be cut into square 
shape, and slashed gently with the 
cutter or knife. Spread a clean 
towel over the table, and dust it 
lightly with flour, and let the dough- 
nuts stand upon it for half an hour, 
being well covered, either with a tow- 
el or some other cover. Let the 
frying kettle then be ready, with 
boiling fat or lard. It must be so 
deep that the doughnuts can swim in 
it. Put the doughnuts into the boil- 
ing lard, and let them fry to a gold- 
en brown. Do not stick the dough- 
nut through with a fork, or it will 
fall im,mediately. When a beautiful 
dark golden brown, drain out of the 
pan with a skimmer, place on a hot 
dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar, 
and serve hot. Tou will have the 
true Creole "G-poxignoUe." 



PAXCAKBS. 

Crfipes. 



8 Eggg. 



3-4 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Cup of Milk. 
Vi Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Many there are in New Orleans to- 
day who remember the delightful old- 
time crepe parties that the belles and 
beaux used to give. The word would 
go from mouth to mouth that some 
great, cheery kitchen in the rue Es- 
plana4e, the rue Royale or the rue 
Rampart would be at the disposal of 
the young folks for the evening for a 
"crgpe" party, and thither the young 
gallants and numbers of "Ma Belle 
Creole" would gather, and the dex- 
terity with which a young lady could 
toss a "crepe," was often the open 
sesame to some young man's heart. 
The great secret in tossing a "crSpe" 
was to do it with accuracy and cele- 
rity, and so neatly that' it would 
settle down- in its place in the fry- 
ing pan just as though it had not 
been touched, with no rough edges 
around, and as smooth and round as 
a young globe. The old Creole dar- 
ky cooks prided themselves on the 
way that they could toss a "orSpe," 
and the great secret that they had 
mastered in making them as thin as 



possible, and exceedingly tender. 

As the "crepgs" were tossed by the 
girls, they .were caught by the young 
ipen and piled in a hot plate. Then 
they were served hot, with butter, 
and molasses, and were each spread 
with sugar and cinnamon and butter 
mixed and rolled. There was as 
much art in rolling the "crepes" 
as in serving them. But more 
generally they, were simply but- 
tered and rolled In our unexcelled 
Louisiana molasses, or "La Cuite," 
a deposit of sugar which comes from 
the molasses. 

These innocent diversions of long 
ago, like the old-time molasses can- 
dy pullings, or "soirees de candl 
tire," and the quaint old-time "eau 
sucr6" parties have passed out of the 
life of the old French quarter. They 
are among the most gentle memo- 
ries of those ancient days. 

"Crepes" are made as follows, the 
quantity of iijgredients given above 
being sufficient for six persons: 

Beat the yolks and w^hltes of the 
teggs together. Then add the flour, 
knd beat very light. Add the milk, 
pouring gradually, and having the 
batter no thicker than cream. Add 
the salt, and mix well. Now comes 
the most important part, the baking. 
Unless this is properly done, your la- 
bor has- fallen to naught. Have a 
wide pancake pan, and let it be very 
hot. Gi-ease it with butter, or, bet- 
ter still, with a piece of fat bacon. 
This is the safest way, as you will 
not have a pancake swimming in 
grease, a most undesirable offering 
'at any table. Pour in batter, suffi- 
cient to just cover the bottom of 
the pan. In a minute, or perhaps 
'less time, the cake must be ready to 
turn. This is the critical moment 
that the old Creole cooks used to un- 
derstand so well. By a peculiar 
sleight of hand that comes only by 
experience, the cake was tossed and 
caught In the pan, and the brown side 
was brought up without failure, and 
the cake lay just as smooth as though 
untouched. Those who wish to learn 
the art must begin slowly at first. 
If you have never tossed a pancake, 
and attempt to do it before you have 
caught the trick, as the old Creoles 
used to call it, you will make a 
'miserable failure, and have only a 
mingled heap of batter. Go slowly, 
and learn. The old darkies used to 
teay, when one of their number could 
toss a "crfipe" to the top of the chim- 
ney and bring it down again slick 
and smooth, with the brown side 
up, tossing minute after minute, "like 
lightning," that the woman was "for 
sure one hoodoo, and the old devil 
himself had taught her to toss and 
fry." But the pancakes thus tossed 
savored neither of flre nor brimstone, 
and, when rolled up with lnfinlte:art 



237 



and ready to serve hot on a dainty 
china dish, many, were the enooiniums 
that masters and mistresses bestowed 
upon their faithful old slaves. 
"Crfipes" may be served as an entr§e 
at breakfast, dinner or supper. They 
make an excellent luncheon dish. 

Freuch PancaKes. 

Crgpes a. la Prangaise. 

% Pound of Flonr. 4 Eggs. 

% Pint of (iold Millj. 
4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Sift the flour into a bowl. Break in 
the eggs; beat well, and add one 
ounce of powdered sugar. Mix thor- 
oughly with a spatula, and then add 
the cold milk, pouring it in gradu- 
ally. Mix well for six minutes. Have 
ready a clean griddle; butter lightly, 
and, when hot, drop on it about two 
large spoonfuls of the batter at a 
time. Let the cakes bake two min- 
utes on each side, and then .turn and 
bake two minutes on the other. Turn 
the pancake on a diSh; sprinkle gener- 
ously with powdered sugar. Con- 



tinue baking the cakes and turning 
on the dish, sprinkling each in turn 
with the powdered sugar, till all is 
used. The above quantity of batter 
will make one dozen pancakes. • 

French Pancakes AVItli Jelly. 

Crgpes Frangaia a, 1-a Gel6. 

% Pound of Flour. 4 Eggs. 

H Pint of Cold Mllli. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar, 

1 Glass of Jelly. 

Prepare the batter exactly as in 
the above recipe. When the pan- 
cakes are nicely cooked, arrange 
them neatly on a dish, and spread 
over each a half tablespoonful of 
apple, strawberry, raspberry, currant, 
peach or any kind of jelly desired: 
then roll them up nicely and dress 
on a dessert dish and sprinkle pow- 
dered white sugar over them. Send 
to the table hot. Some glaze the 
surface of each pancake with a red 
hot iron. But this is a matter of 
taste and decoration. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 



DSSSBRTS. 



Des Desserts. 



Desserts are many and varied. They 
comprise Compotes, Puddings, Pies 
and Pastry, Cakes, Ices, Creams, etc., 
all of which are specially treated in 
order. The Creoles are famous for 
their dainty and delightful desserts. 

COMPOTES. 

Des Compotes. 

Compotes are fruits preserved in 
very little sugar, and made as need- 
ed in the household. The fruits are 
always blanched, and a little sugar 
Is added for them to absorb, and then 
they are put into dishes, and the 
syrup is poured over them. The Cre- 
oles often out the fruits into many 
pretty shapes, especially apples and 
peaches. It is always better to blanch 
the fruits in thinned syrup than in 
water. To preserve the whiteness of 
the peeled fruits, they should be 
peeled as rapidly as possible, and put 
into the saucepan with the water or 
syrups and , blanched only long 
enough to soften, and then arranged 
In ; the dish and covered with the 
syrup. If the fruits are not ripe, 
they ought to be put into syrup 
over the Are to cook a little. 

All compotes may be served as des- 
serts or entremets. 



Compote of Apples. 

Compote de Poihmes. 

1 Dozen Apples. 1 Found ot Sugar. 

%. Cup of Water. 

Pare the apples, cut thfem in quar- 
ters, cut out the cores, and pierce 
them several times, to draini the juice. 
Boil six apples in one pound of su- 
gar and half a. cup of water, and add 
the finely cut peel of a lemon, togeth- 
er with the lemon juice. "When they 
are tvell blanched, take them ' out, 
•vyithout letting them cook too much,, 
and place in a dish. They must be 
soft, but hot pithy. Put the apples 
that you have cut into quarters into 
the syrup, and let hem boil o a jelly 
in the juice. . Then drain well, and 
pour over the apples. Sprinkle with 
a little grated nutmeg and powdered 
sugar. This is excellent. 

To make a compote of whole ap- 
ples, first remove the core its whole 
length, by inserting a long tin cut- 
ter at one end, and then at the other 
end, and with the finger force the 
core out. In this way you will not 
split the apple. Finish as in the 
above recipe. 



238 



Stnited Apple Connpote. 

Compote de Pommes Farcies. 

1 Dozen Apples. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Cup ol Orange or Apricot Marmalade. 

• Cup of Water. 

14 Teaspoon of Ground Cinnamon. 

yt. of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Pare fine, large apples, take out 
the core, and be careful to leave the 
apple entire. Then fill the opening 
with orange or apricot marmalade, 
and put them together in a pan with 
a pound of clarified sugar. Add a 
half cup of water. Let them coolc 
soft in the oven, sprinkling first with 
grated cinnamon. Add grated nut- 
meg when done, and serve either hot 
or cold. 

Apricot Compote. 
Compote d'Abricots. 

1 Dozen Apricots. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
yt. Pound of Apple Jelly. 

Cut the apricots in two, and peel. 
Rinse them in cold water, and then 
proceed to cook them in syrup made 
of sugar and a little water. Add a 
little Apple Jelly to the sugar after 
you have taken out the apricots. 
Mix the jelly well with the syrup, 
pour over the apricots and serve. 

Banana Compote. 

Compote de Bananes. 

1 Dozen Bananas. % Pound of Sugar. 

Tbe Juice of Half a Lemon. 

14 Cup of Water. 

Peel the Bananas and cut them 
into halves. Put the sugar and the 
water on to boil, and after ten min- 
utes add the lemon juice. Then put 
the bananas, a few at a time, into 
the hot syrup and let them stew gent- 
ly. After a half hour take them out 
lay in a dish, pour over the hot liq- 
uid syrup, and serve either hot or 
cold. 

Compote of Banana Cassa. 

Compote de Banane Cassa. 

1 Banana Cassa. 

lii Pounds of Granulated Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

^ Teaspoonful Each of Ground Allspice, 

Cinnamon and Mace. 

Vi Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla or Lemon Extract. 

The "Banana Cassa" is a form of 
vegetable fruit that Is very much 
used among the Creoles In making 
compotes, etc. It grows on a vine 
similar to the gourd or "Mirliton," 
only, unlike the latter, it is consid- 
ered a fruit, and is served as a des- 
sert. It is a long, pear-shaped fruit, 
resembling the banana in color and 
odor and shape, only it is longer and 
and broder. Hence the name, "Ba- 
nana Cassa." It is prepared as fol- 
lows: 



Take the ripe fruit, peel It, and 
cut into slices of about an inch in 
thickness. Remove the seeds and 
place the fruit in a bowl of water, 
to which you will add a small piece 
of lime; or simply immerse in lime- 
'water. Let it soak for three hours. 
Then remove it and rinse in cold 
water. Prepare a syrup, allowing one 
and a quarter pounds of granulated 
sugar to one quart of water, and 
when it begins to boil well add the 
fruit, ground spices and nutmeg, and 
let all boil till the fruit becomes 
transparent. If flavoring is preferred 
to the natural taste, add, according 
to taste, a tablespoonful of Extract 
of Lemon or Vanilla. Let it cool 
and serve as a dessert. It is delicious 
with Whipped Cream. 

Compote of BlacltlteTTies. 

Compote de Mflres. 

1 Quart Blackberries, 

54 Pound of Sugar. 

Select fine berries, but not too ripe. 

Wash them in cold water, and drain 

through a sieve. Boil the sugar, and 

add the berries, and let them boll up 

once very gently. Put them into a 

dish, pour the jelly over and serve. 

Cherry Compote. 

Compote de Cerises. 

1 Quart of Cherries. % Pound of Sugar. 
14 Oip of Water. 

To one pound of stoned cherries 
allow the above amount of sugar. 
Put the sugar and water into a 
saucepan, and when It makes a syrup 
add the cherries. Let then! boil up 
several times. Then drain them with 
the skimming spoon, and put them 
in a dish, and add to the juice a 
glassful of Currant Jelly. Let it 
boil to a thin jelly, and pour it, 
w^hen half cold, over the cherries. 
The Currant Jelly may be omitted 
%ind the reduced cherry syrup used 
^lone. 

. Compote of Coeoanat. 

Compote de Coco. 

1 Cocoanut. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

H Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Pound of Fine White Loaf Sngar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Exeract. 

Divide the cocoanut into quarters 
Peel off all the brown skin, and then 
'soak the clean, white pieces in cold 
water, with a little lemon juice and 
a little salt. Cut them in thin slices 
first, and then In thick threadlike 
shreds, just as you would vegetables 
for Julienne soup. This must be 
done, however, before soaking In the 
lemon juice and salt. Then drain 
the shreds in a clean sieve, and wash 
them in another water, to free them 
entirely from oil. Drain well. Boil 
one pound of the finest white loaf 



239 



sugar. Then remove it from the fire, 
and throw in the prepared cot^oanut, 
and set back on the Are. Let it come 
to a good boil, stirring lightly with 
a silver fork. Then lift them out 
with the fork, after they have boiled 
up once, and place the cocoanut 
shreds in a sieve. Let the sugar boil 
up well again. Add the juice of a 
lemon to the syrup, boil it very thin, 
and then throw in the cocoanut 
shreds, mixing them very lightly in 
the syrup. Separatee the shreds care- 
fully with two silver forks, holding 
one fork in each hand; dish up in a 
raised pile in a dish; when cold, pour 
over the clear syrup, flavoring with 
any extract you wish, preferably va- 
nilla, and serve. 

Compote of Cranberries, 

Compote d'Airelles. 

I Quart of Cranberries. 1% Pounds of Sugar. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Wash and drain the cranberries. 
Then boil as in Cranberry Jelly, only 
do not let the cranberries get 
mashed. Take them out with a skim- 
mer, and add a half pound of sugar 
to the syrup, and the Juice of a lem- 
on. Boil to a syrup and pour over 
the berries and serve cold. 

Compote of Currants. 

Compote de Groseilles. 
1 Quart of Currants. % Pound of Sugar. 
% Cnp of Water. 
Select nice berries and pick ifilean 
and wash well in cold water, and 
drain them through a sieve. Boil 
the sugar and add the berries. Let 
them boil up once very gently. Put 
them in a dish, pour the syrup over 
and serve. 

Compote of Damsons. 

Compote de Prunes. 

1 Qnart ot Damsons. . 

% Pound of Sugar. % Cup of Water. 

Pick off the stems of the damsons 
and prick them all over with a pin. 
Let them simmer in sugar, which you 
will have boiled to a syrup for about 
fifteen minutes. Then proceed as in 
a Compote of Cherries. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Compote of Dried Fruits. 

Compote de Fruits Sees. 

% Pound of Dried Fruit. 

% Pound of Sugar. .% Cup of Water, 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

All dried fruits, such as apples, 
peaches, apricots, crab apples, etc., 
are prepared in the same manner as 
compote of apples and peaches. Only 
allow the dried fruit to soak in cold 
water a long while, say about two 
hours, to swell up. Then boil, and 
afterwards pour into a syrup of boil- 



ing sugar, and proceed as in other 
compotes. 

Compote of Figs, 

Compote de Figues. 

1 Quart of Pigs. % Cup of Water. 
1 Pound ot Sugar. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon, 
Use figs that are not quite ripe. 
Break off the stalks, and prick them 
all over, and let them simmer in a 
syrup, as above. Then proceed in 
exactly the same manner as for Com- 
pote of Cherries. (See recipe.) 

Figs a la Creole. 

Figues a. la CrSole. 

1 Quart ot Ripe Figs. 
% Pound of Sunar. 
Stem and peel and cut the figs in 
quarters. Figs are always abun- 
dant with us in August and Septem- 
ber. Place in a dish, sprinkle well 
with sugar, and serve with their 
own syrup, ice cold. 

Compote of Lemons. 

Compote de Citrons. 

V2 Dozen Lemons. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 1 Cup of Water. 
A Compote of whole' lemons is pre- 
pared in exactly the same manner as 
the above, using twice the amount 
of sugar, or sugar to taste. When 
squeezed thoroughly and boiled they" 
make an excellent Creole remedy for 
colds and coughs. 

Compote of Malaga Grapes. 

^ Compote de Raisins Blancs. 

1 Pound ot Malaga Grapes. 

% Pound of Sugar. V4 Oup of Water. 

Wash the grapes, then cut a silt 
in the grape on one side, and take 
out the seeds. Put the fruit in cold 
water, and let it boil. Take off the 
fire, and let it stand uncovered for 
'a time, and then put in cold water. 
When cold lift them out with a skim- 
ming spoon. Put the grapes in clari- 
fied sugar, which you will have boiled 
Mmost to a thread, and let them boil 
^up once. Skim them out, and put in 
la dish. Boil the sugar to half the 
quantity in syrup, and pour over, and 
serve. 

Compote of Mespllus or Japan Plnms. 

Compote de Mespilus. 

1 Qnart of Mespllus. m Cups of Water. 
% Pound of Sugar. 
Juice of 1 Lemon. 
This is a species of delicious Japan 
plum very common in our States 
Peel, stone and proceed in exactly 
the same manner as for Compote of 
Cherries. (See recipe.) 



240 



Compote of Oranges. 

Compote d'Oranges. 

1 Dozen Louisiana Orangea. 
I Pound of Sugar. Tlie Juico of Half a Lemon. 
H Cup of Water. 
Peel the oranges, and cut them into 
halves crosswise, and take out the 
seeds and the inner pulp. Put the 
sugar and the water on to boil, and 
after ten minutes add the lemon 
Juice. Then put a few of the oranges 
at a time into the hot syrup, and let 
them stew gently. After a half hour 
take them out, lay in a dish, pour 
over the hot liquid syrup and serve 
either hot or cold. 

Compote of Whole Oranges. 

Compote d'Oranges Entieres. 

1 Dozen Louisiana Oranges. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
Boil the oranges, with their peel, 
gently in water for twenty minutes. 
Turn the oranges very thinly and 
spirally, scoring out, if possible, all 
the inner pulp and peeling. Make a 
syrup by boiling the sugar, and add 
the oranges. Let them simmer for 
twenty minutes longer. Take off, 
and allow the oranges to remain in 
their Juice for several hours. Dish 
them up in a compote dish, and pour 
over their syr.up on the instant of 
sending to the table. 

Oranges, Creole Style. 

Oranges a. la. Creole. 

1 Dozen Fine Louisiana Oranges. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

Peel the oranges and cut in slices, 

and sprinkle with sugar, to form a 

syrup. Let them stand for several 

hours in a cool place, and serve 

either as a preliminary to breakfast 

or as a dessert. This is a delightful 

Creole way of serving oranges. 

Compote of Peaches. 

Compote de P§ches. 

1 Dozen Peaches. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
% Cup of Water. 

Take well-grown, somewhat unripe 
peaches. Then cut them in two, and 
take out the stones. Put the peach- 
es into boiling water, and let them 
stand tin they are soft, and then 
throw in cold water till cold. Peel 
them and put them into the sugar, 
adding a little water, and let them 
boil up several times. Then drain 
with the skimmer, lifting them into 
the dish gently. Pour over the re- 
duced syrup, and serve with milk 
or whipped cream. 

Compote of Pears. 

Compote de Poires. 

7 Large, Fine Pears. 

1 Pound of Sugar. The Juice of a Lemon. 

Va Cup of Water. 

Scrape the pears spirally from head 

to stalk with a tapering tin cutter, 



to take out the cores. Then put the 
sugar and one-half cup of water on 
the Are, and add to it four or Ave 
pears, which you will have cut into 
pieces. As this forms a syrup place 
the whole pears in it, and let them 
simmer, adding the lemon Juice to 
keep them white. When done, place 
the pears in order in a dish. Let the 
syrup stew down to a nice jelly, and 
then pour over and serve. Apple 
Jelly may be spread over the pears 
first, and the syrup poured after- 
wards. This increases the flavor of 
this delightful compote. 

Compote of Plums. 

Compote de Prunes. 

1 Quart of Plums. 
54 Pound of Sugar. % Cup of Water. 

Pick off the stems of the plums and 
prick them all over with a pin. Let 
them simmer in sugar, which you 
will have boiled to a syrup for about 
fifteen minutes. Then proceed as in 
a Compote of Cherries. (See recipe.) 

^ Compote of Pineapple. 

Compote d' Ananas. 

1 Pineapple. % Pound of Sugar. 

% Cup of Water. 

Peel the pineapple^ and cut in 
slices, very thin. Put it into a syrup 
made of half a pound of sugar, and 
let it boil up once. Take out. and 
let the syrup simmer a few minutes 
longer, pour over the pineapple, and 
serve. 

Another method very common 
among the Creoles, and often pre- 
ferred to the former by many, is to 
slice the pineapple nicely, place in a 
dish, sprinkle with powdered white 
sugar, let the pineapple form a- nat- 
ural syrup and serve. This is deli- 
cious. Some add Claret or White 
Wine to this compote. 

Compote of Plantain, Creole Style. 

Compote de Plantain a, la Cr6ole. 

6 Plantains. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

1 Cup of Water. 

Peel the plantains and cut Into 
halves or quarters. Put the sugar 
and water on to boil, and, after ten 
minutes, add the lemon juice. Then 
put the pieces of plantain, a few at 
a time, into the hot syrup and let 
them stew gently. After 'half an 
hour. Or forty-five minutes if iiot 
tender, take them out, lay in a dish, 
pour over the hot syrup, and serve 
either hot or cold. 

The plantain is a variety of banana, 
and may ,be prepared in every man- 
ner in which bananas are cooked, 
such as fried bananas, stewed banan- 
as, banana fritters, pudding, cake and 
pie. (See recipes.) Unlike the ba^ 



241 



nana, however, the plantain is never 
eaten raw, as it is a fruit of much 
coarser fiber; but, when coolted, 
equals the banana in delicacy of 
taste. It is a favorite dish on Creole 
tables. 

Compote of Plantain, Old Style. 

Compote de Plantain 3, I'Anoienne 
Mode. 

6 Plantains. 

Vt Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Rum. 

Kirsch or Maraschino Sauce. 

The following is a famous Creole 
way of cooking plantains that has 
fallen in desuetude, but which de- 
serves to be resurrected as one of 
the most delightful methods of pre- 
paring plantains: Have ready a pile 
of hot ashes in the oven. Put the 
plantains (unpeeled) into the ashes 
and cover well with ashes. Let them 
roast thus for half an hour; then take 
out, peel, cut into quarters and 
sprinkle with sugar. Set in the oven 
a few minutes and serve hot, with a 
Rum, Kirsch or Maraschino Sauce. 

Compote of Fomesranates. 

Compote de Grenades. 

1 Dozen Pomegranates. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

% Cup of Water. 

X Tablespoonful of Orange Juice or Maraschino. 

Cut a circle about the size of a 
five-cent piece out of the pe.el of the 
pomegranate, using a sharp-pofnted 
knife. Then split down the sides of 
their skins, and carefully remove all 
the bright ruby pips, without bruis- 
ing them. Throw these into a dish. 
Make a syrup, flavored with orange 
juice or Maraschino, and pour over 
and serve. 

Compote of Fmnea. 

Compote de Pruneaux. 

1 Pound of Prunes ^ Pound of Sugar. 
1 Glass of Claret. 

Soak the prunes over night in cold 
water, and drain. Put them into a 
saucepan with water, cover the 
saucepan, and let them boil over a 
moderate fire. When they begin to 
soften, add a glass of red wine and 
a quarter of a pound of sugar. Let 
it boil, stirring frequently, till the 
prunes are cooked well. Then take 
them from the fire, rub a piece of su- 
gar over an orange or a lemon, and 
when it is completely saturated with 
the zest, put Into a dish, pour the 
prunes in with their Juice, and serve 
cdia. 

It is not absolutely necessary to 
8oak the prunes over night, but they 



cook much more easily if you do. 
Prunes are very healthy and are 
served twice a week in every con- 
vent in New Orleans. 

Stewed prunes are prepared in ex- 
actly the same manner as above, 
only the sugar is put on with the 
prunes and the wine is omitted. 

Compote of Raspberries. 

Compote de Framboises. 

1 Quart of Raspberries. % Pound of Sugar, 
Select fine Raspberries, but not too 
ripe. Wash them in cold water, and 
drain through a sieve. Boil the su- 
gar, and add the berries and let 
them boil up once very gently. Put 
them into a dish, pour the Jelly over 
and serve. 

StravFberry Compote. 

Compote de Praises. 

1 Quart of Strawberries. % Pound of Sugar. 
Select fine strawberries, but not 
too ripe. Wash them in cold water, 
and drain through a sieve. Boil the 
sugar, and add the berries, and let 
them boil up once very gently. Put 
them into a dish, pour the Jelly over, 
and serve. 

HOW TO SERVE FRESH FRUITS 
AND DESSERTS. 

Fruits are served in New Orleans 
tables e-very day. There is always a 
variety of fruit in our markets. We 
have out own magnificent Louisiana 
oranges, peaches, pears and plums, 
grapes of all varieties, mangoes, mes- 
tilus, in their season, pomegranates, 
strawberries, raspberries, blackber- 
ries, which are to be had for the pick- 
ing, bananas and plantains galore, 
lemons, citrons — in a word, all the 
fruits of the tropical and temperate 
zones. 

In .arranging fruits on the table, 
the higher they are elevated the pret- 
tier the effect, and the more tempting 
the sight. 

It is out of taste to mix fruits, cakes 
and bonbons on the same dish. Serve 
each in its own dish, and these alter- 
nating when the dessert is brought 
on, tend much to tempt the appetite 
of the guest. Fruits are most whole- 
some when ripe, and form a part of 
the well regulated family meal for 
breakfast, as a preliminary, and for 
dinner as an after dessert. In serv- 
ing the desserts that are cooked, 
always be careful to dish them nicely 
and neatly. 

Always serve raw fruits ice cold. 
This end is easily attained by plac- 
ing the fruit in an ice box or refrig- 
erator. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 



PASTRY AND PIBS. 



Patisserie. 



The most important point in mak- 
ing pastries of all kinds is to make 
the pastry crust of the proper con- 
sistency. The crust of pies should 
always be light, flaky and delicately 
crisp. To attain this end, only the 
best flour should be used. In making 
Puff Paste, always use ice water. In 
making pie crust, use tepid water if 
you wish for the best results. The 
great secret of all pastry depends 
upon the proper manipulation with 
the fingers. 

PUFF PASTE, 

pats Feuilletee. 

1 Pint of Flour. 

1 Pound of Good Butter, or Halt Lard and 

Half Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Cup of Ice Water. 1 Egg. 

Have the flour dry and fresh and 
the butter of the freshest. Wash the 
butter well, till it becomes clear and 
elastic to the touch, and cut It Into 
Jour equal parts, and place it in a 
bowl, which you will have cooled with 
Ice water. Set it away to cool and 
harden. Have your flour sifted and 
ready, and the egg beaten and at 
Jiand. Put the flour into a bowl and 
add to it a lump of butter; work 
it with your hand, handling always 
as lightly as possible; add the egg, 
then salt, and, if the paste is In- 
tended for cakes, a teaspoonful of 
sugar. Work all well, but very light- 
ly, with the fingers and thumb, and 
then gradually add the ice water, 
working it well and lightly into the 
flour. When all is worked in, knead 
Jightly for about five minutes, just 
as though you were making bread. 
Then cut the dough into halves; 
sprinkle the board lightly with flour; 
take the rollingpin and roll the paste 
out very thin, rolling each half into 
a half sheet. Break the butter into 
bits; take about one-quarter of the 
remainder, quickly spread this over 
the paste; then dredge it very lightly 
with flour and lay over it the other 
sheet. Dredge this with flour lightly 
and pound with the rollingpin light- 
ly; then roll this from you into a 
long thin sheet. Spread a thin coat- 
ing of butter over this, and then fold 
the paste over from the sides to the 
center, and then back again, till you 
have three folds. Then turn and 
roll this again till quite thin; add a 
second quarter of butter broken Into 



bits; dredge lightly with flour and 
fold and roll as before, always in 
the same direction — from you. Re- 
peat this process, folding and rolling, 
till all the butter is used. Then cut 
the paste into three or four parts, 
according to quantity, and set in the 
ice box in tin plates for twenty min- 
utes, or until you are ready to use. 
It may be kept for several days, 
if rolled in a napkin and set in a 
cool place. This is the paste used 
In making Vol-au-vents, small patfis, 
etc. The most important point is the 
baking. The oven should be very 
hot. If you have used all the best 
materials that wealth can procure, 
and yet do not have the oven proper- 
ly heated, all your efforts will have 
been in vain. Do not set the crust 
too near the inner fire part of the 
oven, as it will bake unevenly, and 
one side will be higher than the oth- 
er. It is always well to bake small 
pates with a strong underheat, thus 
allowing them to rise to their full 
height before browning. If the oven 
be too hot, and the paste begins 
to brown as soon as put in, quickly 
open the drafts of the stove and re- 
duce the temperature. 

It is well to bake the under crust 
first before putting in the filling in 
meat pies. 

In baking small patties, cut the 
dough out with a biscuit cutter, leav- 
ing the outer rounds distinct from 
the center. Remove the center and 
cut out other little rings, and place 
these one on top of the other, above 
the bottom crust, which should be 
solid. In this way is produced the 
effect of each section being crisp and 
apparently separate from the other. 
Some use the white of an egg only; 
others omit it entirely. It is op- 
tional. 

PIE CRUST. 
pate Bris6e. 

3 Caps of Silted Flour. 

1% Cups of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Nearly a Cup of Tepid Water. 

This quantity will make crusts and 
coverings for three ordinary pies. 
Rub the flour and butter very light- 
ly together, being careful not to 
allow it to harden under touch; keep 
on kneading a little butter at a time 
into the fiour till you have used up 
all and the dough feels greasy to 
the touch. Always remember to add 



243 



the salt before putting in the but- 
ter. Some add a tablespoonful of 
sugar, but the sweetned filling will 
be generally found suSioient. Then 
add, little by little, the, water, knead- 
ing, gently, till you have a nice, soft 
dough, lifting out the portion that is 
wet and continuing to knead as you 
mix the flour and water. Always be 
very careful in adding the water, 
and never wet the flour twice in the 
same place. Mix all together lightly 
with your hands when all is mois- 
ened, using always your own good 
judgment in adding water. Do not 
work the dough; simply mix lightly 
and thoroughly, and then dredge the 
board lightly with the flour. If you 
intend to make two pies, cut the 
dough into four parts. Turn the 
paste out upon the board and roll 
lightly and quickly into long, thin 
sheets. Use as little flour as pos- 
sible in rolling, as your dough will 
grow tough the niore you work it, 
and the more you add flour and roll 
it. Remember always that the less 
flour used in rolling, the tenderer 
will be the paste. Therefore always 
cut the dough in as many sections as 
you intend to mc-ke pies, allowing for 
an upper and an under crust; this 
will obviate the necessity of rolling 
It again. Take the pie pans immedi- 
ately, and place a sheet of dough 
over each, and trim the edges nicely. 
Set in the stove, let them bake light- 
ly, and then add the filling of fruits. 
Place a light thin cover of crust 
ov.ei' them, and trim the edges; deo- 
orate the edges prettily, using the 
end of a fork or spoon, and set in 
the hot oven to bake quickly. When 
done, set to cool. Sprinkle, when 
cool, with powdered white sugar, 
rolling the loaf sugar into a powder, 
rather than using the pulverized, if 
you wish an elegant taste. Thus 
made, the pies ought to have a rich, 
light, flaky crust, that will, as the 
old Creole darkies used to say, "melt 
in your mouth." Tpu cannot attain 
this end if you use Ipe-cojd water in 
making this kind of paste. 

Paste made with lard may be used 
for meat pies anfl dumplinge, and 
for stews and chicken, when coojced 
with dumplings. Only roll very thin. 
Some persons use lard for pie crust. 
This is to be deprecated. The crust 
will never have the same flavor ^s 
when made with butteer. Others, 
again, mix the butter and lard. This, 
too, is to be condemned if you wish 
for the best results. 

If any pie crust is left, do not 
think of throwing it away. Take all 
the bits left from cutting around the 
edges of the pie pans; roll very thin' 
l;ito small squares; bake lightly, and 
save for tea or luncheon. Put a 
spoonful of orange, pineapple, lemon 
or raspberry jelly on each square; 
and they will be found delicious. 



FOUNDATION PASTE. 

Pa,te a, Foncer. 

% Pound of Flour. % Pint of Water. 
1 Ounce of Butter. % Teaspoonful of Salt.' 

Sift the flour well; mix with the 
salt; then rub the flour and butter 
lightly together, being careful not 
to let it harden under the touch. 
When the butter and flour are well 
'kneaded, add the water gradually, 
kneading little by little, till well 
kneaded. Do not work the dough; 
simply mix lightly and thoroughly. 
Flour the table lightly, turn the paste 
'out upon it, and press in the center 
and around the edges, repeating this 
operation three or four times. Then 
flatten the paste, lay on a dish and 
cover with a towel and set in a cool 
place till ready to use, which should 
be in about twenty-five minutes, at 
least. 

PliAIN PASTE FOR DUMPIilNGS, 

Pa,te a. Dresser. 

2 Cups of Sifted Flour. 

1 Large Heaping Kitcbenspoontul of Butter.- 

or Lard. 

% Cup of Tepid Water. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Blend the salt and the flour, and 
then gradually mix in the butter, if 
tor apple dumplings or rolls. Use 
lard If intended for dumplings for 
chicken stews, veal stews, etc; Fol- 
low the same directions given for 
tnaking pie paste. Add the water by 
'degrees, using good judgment al- 
ways, and lifting the dough out as 
■you wet it,, never wetting twice in 
the same place. Mix and knead light- 
ly, and then sift a light coating of 
flour on the board, and roll out with 
the rolling pin, ,and use for all pur- 
t)oses in this book where Plain Paste 
is indicated. If necessary to keep 
the paste awhile, place in a napkin in 
the ice box. But do not use ice water 
in mixing it, or you will have a tough 
dough. To attain perfect success in 
making all pastes, mix quickly, 
knead slightly, roll quickly and bake 
rapidly, .using always as little flour 
as possible in rolling. Never beat pie 
crust or plain paste. Tou will hard-, 
en it and make it just the reverse of 
the light, palatable paste you desire. 
Use above paste, for chicken dump- 
lings, meat dumplings and apple 
dumplings, rolling out the dough ex- 
ceedingly thin in small pieces of 
about two and a half inches in length 
one in width, and at least one-eighth 
of an inch in thickness. 

With these preliminary instruc- 
tions, the Picayune will proceed to 
give the recipes for the various pies, 
made in Creole households. 



244 



Apple Fie. 

Tairte aux Pommes. 

4 Large Apples (tart). 1 Oup Sugar. 

1 Teas^oonful Sweet Spices, Blended Equally. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Pare and slice the apples nicely. 
Then put them in a porcelain-lined 
saucepan, and let them stew gently, 
adding the water and the butter. 
Season well with a little ground cin- 
namon, mace and allspice. When 
done, take off and allow to cool a 
little. Make a flaky pie crust (see 
recipe), and line the tin plates, after 
greasing slightly with butter, and 
bake the bottom crist slightly brown. 
Take out and fill in with the apples, 
and then cover the top with a thin 
layer of crust. Decorate the edges, 
and set in the oven to bake. "When 
a nice, delicate brown, take out and 
let them cool. Remove from the tin 
plate by slightly loosening the outer 
edge with a knife. Turn over into 
a china plate, sprinkle with white 
powdered sugar, and serve cold or 
hot. A pie is always better served 
cold when made of fruit. 

The above is the general rule to 
be observed in making pies. , Some- 
times the pies are left open, being 
covered with tiny strips of paste. 
This is a matter of taste. Utilize 
odd bits of paste and fruits thus. 

Apple Tarts. 

Tartelettes aux Pommes. 

4 Ounces of Fie Paste. 3 Ounces of Apple 

Marmalade. 3 Apples. 

2 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Prepare the Pie Paste (see recipe),' 
and line six tart molds with it. Peel 
and core the apples and cut into 
Quarters, and put into a saucepan 
with a pint of cold water. Let them 
cook on a hot stove for ten minutes. 
Then remove and drain, and let cool 
for half an hour. Then cut the quar- 
ters into three slices each; line the 
bottom of the molds with the mar- 
malade divided evenly; arrange the 
sliced apples nicely over the mar- 
malade, and dredge nicely with two 
ounces of powdered sugar. Set in a 
baking dish and bake for twenty 
minutes, or a half hour if necessary, 
in a moderate oven. Take out and 
spread nicely with apple marmalade 
and serve. 

A simpler way is as follows: Pare 
and quarter the apples. Sprinkle 
lightly with sugar. Make a pie crust; 
roll into small bits; place the apples 
in the open crust, fold over, fasten by 
pressing in an ornamental way with 
a fork, and bake in a quick oven un- 
til the apples are very tender. 



Apple MeringrnS Fie, 

Tartes de Pommes Meringufies. 

4 Large Apples. % Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices, Blended 
Equally. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Whites of 3 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla or Lemon Essence. 

Peel, slice and stew ripe, juicy ap- 
ples, and mash them through a sieve. 
Season with a little grated nutmeg, 
using the proportion all through this 
recipe given in Apple Pie. (See re- 
cipe.) Pill the pie plates with the 
crust, bake and fill with the stewed 
apples. Let them bake for about 
twenty minutes, and then spread over 
the top a thick meringue, made by 
'beating the whites of three eggs for 
each pie, with three tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, if you desire a 
deep, rich meringue; otherwise, al- 
low the white of one egg and one ta- 
blespoonful of sugar. Flavor with 
vanilla or lemon, and coritinue beat- 
ing till it will stand alone. Cover 
the pies with this meringue three- 
iquarters of an inch or one-quarter of 
an inch thick, according to quantity 
used; set in the stove and let brown, 
and eat cold. 

Banana Fie. 

Tarte de Bananes. 

4 Large Bananas. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices, 31ended 

Equally. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

' Peel, slice and stew the bananas 
■and mash through a sieve. Prepare 
a Pie Paste and proceed as in Apple 
Pie. (See recipe.) 

Banana Merln^n^ Fie. 

Tarte de Bananes Meringu6s. 

4 Large Bananas. 
% Cnp of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices. 
Wbites of 3 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. 
1 Teaspoonful Grated Nutmeg. 
Peel, slice and stew the banana3= 
and mash through a- sieve; then pro- 
ceed as in directions for Apple Me- 
ringue Pie. (See recipe.) 

Blackberry Fie. 

Tarte de Mures. 

1 Quart of Blackberries. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
1 Teaspouutul of Sweet Spices. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Water. 

Stew the blackberries and proceed 
in exactly the same manner as for 
Apple Pie. using the same proportions. 
foi" two pies. (See recipe.) 



24b 



Clierry Pie. 

Tarte de Cerises. 

1 Quart of Cherries. 1 Cup of Sugar, 
1 TablespooDfuI of Water. 

_■ All fruit pies arer best when the 
fruit is previously cooked. Stew the 
cherries gently, as for a "inarmalade, 
and prepare the pie crust according 
to directions, and proceed as in di- 
rections for making pies. 

Chocolate Cream Pie. 

Tarte &, la Crfeme de Chocolat. 

2 Quarts of Milk. 

^ of a Cake of Vanilla or French Chocolate, 

% Cup of White Sugar. 

6 Eggs. 2 Teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. 

First dissolve the chocolate in a 
little milk, and then stir into the 
boiling milk. Let it boil about four 
minutes. Then set to cool. "When 
almost cool, add the yolks of all the 
eggs and the whites of three, saving 
the remainder for the meringue. Stir 
these eggs well into the chocolate, 
and add the essence of vanilla. Then 
put into pie pans, in which you will 
already have baked the under crust. 
Set in the oven and let the custard 
grow to a "set" state. When half 
done, spread over the -whites of the 
eggs, which have been w^hipped to a 
stiff froth, with two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Let the pies 
brown lightly, and serve cold. By 
baking the above preparation, with- 
out the paste, in cups set in boiling 
water, you will have a Chocolate Cup 
Custard. 

Cocoannt Pie. 

Tarte de Coco. 

1 Pint of Milk. % Cup of Sugar. 
1 Cup of Gratea Cocoanut. 2 Eggs. 

% of a Grated Nutmeg. 
Beat the eggs' very light. Add the 
sugar and beat with the eggs until 
very light. Add the grated nutmeg, 
and finally the cocoanut. Make a pie 
crust (see recipe), using half the 
Quantity, as a cocoanut pie is always 
an uncovered pie. Pill with the mix- 
ture, and bake in the oven for about 
half an hour. 

Creole Cocoanut Flc. 

Tarte de Coco a. la Creole. 

% Pound of Grated Cocoanut. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

% Pound of White Powdered Sugar. 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. 

1 Glass of White Wine. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. 

1 Tablespoonful of Nutmeg. 
Beat the sugar and butter to a 
light cream, and then add the wine 
and the essence of vanilla. Gradu- 
ally add the cocoanut, beating in as 
lightly as possible. Add the scalded 
milk, which has been allowed to 



cool, and finally beat in lightly the 
■whites of the eggs, which have been 
whipped to a very stiff froth. Do 
this latter wjth a, few swift strokes, 
so that the cocoanut may stand out 
fresh and flaky, like snow. Bake in 
pie crusts which have already been 
set in the oVen. Serve cold, sprink- 
ling over white powdered sugar. This 
■is a famous Creole pie. 

Cream Pie. 

Darriole. 

1 Pint of Milk. The Whites of Four Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful Flour. % Cup Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence or Lemon 

Juice. 

Blend the flour and butter well 
'together, and when light add the 
'milk gradually. Cornstarch may be 
'Substituted for the flour. Add the 
essence of vanilla or the juice of a 
lemon, and then add the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Stir 
them well into the boiling mixture, 
and then fill the pie pans, which you 
have filled with crust, baked accord- 
ing to directions. Place In the oven 
%nd bake until a nice brown. A 
cream pie should be served very cold. 

Cranberry Pie. 

' Tarte d'Airelles. 

VA Pints of Cranberries. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
Plain Pie Crust. 

Cook the cranberries as for Cran- 
berry Sauce. (See recipe.) Do not 
tetram the berries. Prepare the pie 
^crust. Bake the lower crust, and fill 
With the fruit, and proceed as iij 
general directions for making pies 
given under the heading "Apple Pie." 
A cranberry pie, properly made, is 
one of the most delicious of all pies. 

Custard Pie. 

Flan. 

1 Pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. Vi Cup of Sugar. 

Vanilla or Lemon Extract. 

A .Pinch of Salt. 

■ Line the pie pans with the pie 
'crust. (See recipe.) Beat the eggs 
•lightly in a bowl. Add the sugar 
'and the fiavoring extract. -Set the 
milk to boil in a farina boiler. Whe^ 
it boils, pour it gently upon the' eggs, 
.and stir till all is thoroughly .blend- 
ed. Then till the pie pans with this 
filling. Place in a moderate oven, 
and bake for twenty or twenty-five 
minutes. 

Currant Pie. 

Tarrte de Groseilles Bouges. 

^ Pint of Currants. % Cnp of Sugar. 
Plain Pie Paste. 

Clean and pick and wash the. cur- 
rants well; drain nicely, and then put 
into a saucepan with one-half cup 



246 



of sugar. Stew nicely, and then pro- 
ceed as in the directions given for 
making Apple Pie. (See recipe.) 

Franglpanl. 

Frangipane. 

8 Ounces of Shelled Almonds. 3 Tablespoon- 

fuls of Powdered Sugar. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 2 Eggs. 
% Spoonful of Ground Cinnamon. % Tea- 
spoonful of Orange Flower Water. 
^ Gill of Bum. 

Prepare a pie paste, and peel three 
ounces of shelled almonds. Then put 
them into a mortar and pound to a 
paste, with the powdered sugar and 
a raw egg. When reduced to a very 
fine paste, add the melted butter, 
ground cinnamon and the orange 
flower water. Beat the yolk of an 
egg well, and then beat the white 
to a stiff froth and mix thoroughly. 
Now add the rum and mix again. 
Line the pie pans with the pie paste, 
and All with the pieparation of al- 
monds. Set in a moderate oven for 
thirty-five or forty minutes; then 
set to cool for a half hour. In the 
meantime prepare a "Glace a I'Eau" 
as follows: Put one ounce of white 
granulated sugar into a saucepan, 
with one tablespoonful of cold wa- 
ter, and let it come to a boil. Take 
off the fire and add immediately a ta- 
blespoonful of curacoa; mix thor- 
oughly, and then glaze theh surface 
of the cake with this. Let it cool an 
send to the table. 

Gooseberry Pie. 

Tarte de Groseilles Blanches. 

1 Quart of Gooseberries. 1% Cups of Sugar. 
A Plain Pie Paste. 
Top and tail the gooseberries. Line 
two deep pie dishes with a plain 
Pie Paste (see recipe); fill with ber- 
ries; add nearly one cup of sugar to 
each pie, and proceed as i.n recipe 
for Apple Pie. Set in the oven and 
let the pies bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. If the gooseberries are 
stewed as blackberries. It will re- 
quire less time to bake. 

Green Gage Pie, 

Tartre de Reine-Claude, 

8 Eipe Greengages. 3 Ounces of Apple 

Marmalade. 

Va Pound of FeulUetage Paste. 

Prepare a half pound of Feuille- 
tage Paste (see recipe) and line six 
tart mold? with It. Then spread nice- 
ly on the bottom of each three ounces 
of Apple Marmalade. (See recipe.) 
Take the greengages, wipe well and 
remove the stones; cut into quartered 
pieces and lay nicely over the mar- 
malade. Sprinkle two ounces of 
powdered sugar evenly over them in 
a, moderate oven and bake for twen- 
ty-five minutes. Remove; let cool; 



spread apple marmalade nicely over 
the top and send to the table. 

Huckleberry Pie. 

Tarte de Mflres de Ronce. 

1 Quart of Huckleberries. % Cup of Sugar, 
A Plain Pie Paste. 
In making this delicious pie, pro- 
ceed in the same manner as in the 
recipe given for Cherry Pie. (See re- 
cipe.) 

liemon Pie, 

Tarte de Citron. 

1% Cups of Sugar. 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Corn Starch or 2 of Flour. 

2 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Juice and Inner Fruit and 2est of Two 

Grated Lemons. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream; add the eggs, the yolks and 
the white beaten separately, and then 
add the hot water and the juice and 
meat of the lemon and the grated 
zest. Moisten the flour or cornstarch 
with a little cold water, and stir 
into the mixture. Line the pie pans 
with plain paste or pie crust. (See 
recipe.) Bake the under crust a 
few minutes. Then fill the pans with 
the mixture, cover with an upper 
crust, and bake in a quick oven for 
half an hour. 

Or cook the custard first, as many 
of the Creoles do, declaring that thus 
they reach better results. Boil the 
water, and then wet the flour, or 
cornstarch with a little cold water, 
blending thoroughly. Stir this into 
the water, and let all come to the' 
boiling point. Then add the sugar, 
and, if you wish, the butter. Let It 
boil up once. Take off, and add Im- 
mediately the beaten eggs, and set 
to cool. Then add the lemon juice 
and grated lemon zest, stirring well. 
Bake the under crust of the pie, fill 
"with this mixture, and set in the 
V)vsn to brown flicely. This should 
I)e an open pie. Indeed, all lemon 
pies should be open, as custard pies 
always are. The above measure- 
ments will make two pies. 

Liemon Meringue Pie. 

Tarte de Citron M§ringu6e. 

1% Cups of Milk or Water. 
1% Cups of White Sugar. 3 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour or Cornstarch. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered White Sugar. 
The Juice and Grated Zest of 2 Lemons. 

Have ready the pie pans, with the 
baked crust. Beat the sugar and the 
yolks well together, and add the juice 
and grated zest of the le;nons. Blend 
the flour and milk gradually, and 
pour it through a sieve into the eggs. 
Mix thoroughly. Pill the lined pans 
with this, and set in the oven to bake 
for twenty or thirty minutes. Add 
gradually three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar to the whites of the 



247 



eggs, beating' steadily all the, time, 
and when it Is all absorbed beat it 
to a stiit froth. Place this over the 
top of the pie by spoonfuls, and then 
smooth lightly with the spoon, place 
in the oven, and let It brown. This 
is a delicious pie. 

.. Mince Pie. 

pats de Noel. 

3 Pounds of Beef, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Pound of Beef or Mutton Suet. 

i Pounds of Apples, Pared and Chopped. 

2 Pounds of Raisins, Seeded and Chopped. 

1 Pound of Sultana Raisins, Picked and 

Washed. 

2 Pounds of Currants, Picked and Washed. 

1 Pound of Citron, Cut Very Fine. 

% Pound of Lemon Peel, Grated Very Fine. 

2 Pounds of Brown Sugar. 

Pound- of Candied Lemon Peel, if desired. 

2 Grated Nutmegs. 

1 Tablespoontul Each Of Ground Cloves and 

Allspice. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Ground Mace. 

1 Tahlespoonful of Fine Salt. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Ground Cinnamon. 

1 Quart of Good Sherry or Madeira. 

1 Quart of the Best Brandy. 

The Juice of Two Lemons. 

The Juice of 2 Oranges, and the Rind, Grated 

Fine. 

The meat should be good and lean, 
and should be boiled the day before 
needed, or early in the morning, and 
allowed to cool. In boiling the meat, 
plunge it into boiling (not cold) wa- 
ter, for the boiling water enables it 
to retain. -its juices. Boil steadily till 
tender. Then stand away to cool. 
Chop the meat very fine, and clear 
away all gristle and slcin. Shred the 
suet, and chop, or, rather mince it 
very, very fine. Then pare and core 
the apples, and chop very fine. Stone 
the raisins, and cut the citron fine. 
Many prefer to leave out the candied 
lemon. That is according to taste. 
The mince meat is heavier with it. 
The taste is much more delicate and 
the pie much more digestible without. 
Grate the orange and lemon peel very 
fine. Then mix the meat and suet 
together, chopping again, and add all 
the ingredients, mixing well together. 
Add the Juices of the lemon and or- 
ange, and the grated rinds, and then 
mix all well again, and paclc in a 
stone jar. Pour over this the quart 
of brandy, and the wine, and cover 
very tightly, and set in a very cool 
place. Mince meat made' in this man- 
ner should keep all winter. The Cre- 
oles generally begin to make It, like 
their fruit cakes, just before Thanks- 
giving time, and set it away, having 
vecourse to it for Christmas and New 
Tear's pies, or whenever needed. 
When ready to use the meat, dish 
out the quantity you desire, and thin 
to the desired consistency with good 



Slierry or Madeira wine. Be very 
careful in pickittg the currants care- 
fully, seeding out all grains of sand 
or dirt and pieces of twigs of trees. 
Wash them very, very carefully, in 
cold w^ater, separating the good from 
the bad, and the great quantity q{ 
refuse that always lurks in bouglit 
currants. 

The Creoles often use the fresh beef 
tongue or the heart of the beef, well- 
chopped and boiled, in making this 
mince meat. The filet of beef is best. 
Mince meat made in this manner 
•never need cause dyspepsia. If the 
housekeeper is careful in using it, 
and i»i properly keeping it, it need 
not be made more than once or twice 
during the winter. It should be 
made at least twenty-four hours be- 
fore using. 

To make the pies, line the bottom, 
of the pie pans with the pie crust, 
bake the bottom layer, and then fill 
with the mince meat. Cover the pies 
with a thin crust, or leave open, if 
preferred, bake till a nice, delicate 
brown, sprinkle lightly with white 
sugar, and serve hot. Mince pies 
kept from day to day should be 
warmed over before. serving. 

PInin Mince Meat. 

pate de Noel Simple. ^ 

A plain mince meat for every day 
•use may be made as follows: ' 

2 Pounds of Meat. 2^4 Pounds of Apples. 
2 Pounds of Seeded Raisins. 
2 Pounds of Currants. 1 Pint of Brandy. 
% Pint of Good Sherry. 
1 Teaspoonful Each of Cinnamon. Gloyes, 
Nutmeg and Mace, Grated. 
2 Pounds of Brown Sugar. 
The Juice and Rind of 1 Lemon. The Juice 
and Bind of 1 Orange. 
% Pound of Mutton or Beet Suet. 
V4 Pound of Chopped Citron. 
Proceed to prepare the meat and 
the pies as in above recipe. 

Lenten Mince Pies. 

patg de Noel au CarSme. 

4 Pounds of the Best Apples, Cored and 

Minced. 

2 Pounds of Balsins, Stoned and Minced. 

8 Haid-Boiled Eggs, Chopped Fine. 

1 Teaspoonful Each of Ground Spices, as 

Above. 

Juice and Kind of 2 Lemons. Grated. 

The Juice of an Orange, and Rind, Grated. 

2 Pounds of Currants. 

2 Pounds of Sugar, or Sugar to Taste. 

% Pint Each of Brandy and Sherry. 

Mix all well together in lesser 
proportions, according to the num- 
ber of pies you wish to make, and 
proceed as above. (See recipe Minco 
Pie.) 



248 



Molasses Pie. 

Tarte de Melasse. 
2 Cups of New Orleans Molasses, 
% Cup of Sugar. 
The Juice of 2 Lemons. 3 Eggs. 

?. Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
% Teaspoonful Each of Nutmeg and Cinna- 
mon. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Blend the lemon juice and molas- 
ses well, and gradually beat in the 
flour, which you will have moistened 
with a little water. Then add the 
spices and the butter, melted, and the 
yolks of the eggs, beaten very light 
with the sugar. Finally, add the 
whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix 
well. Line the pie pans with a pie 
crust (see recipe), bake, All with the 
mixture, and bake again for half an 
hour. One-quarter of a cup of vin- 
egar may be substituted for the lem- 
on juice, but always use the latter 
if you have it. 

Orangre Pie. 

Tarte d'Oranges. 
2 Fine Louisiana Oranges and Their Juice. 
The Rind of 1 Orange, Grated. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Tablespoontul of Cornstarch. 3 Eggs. 
1 Cup of Powdered Sugar. 
% Teacupful of Boiling Water. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Then blend the cornstarch 
with sufficient cold water to moisten 
and mix well, and stir into the tea- 
cup of water, which should be boil- 
ing in a saucepan. Let it cook, stir- 
ring constantly, for two minutes only. 
Then add the butter and sugar, and 
stir well. Remove-from the fire, and 
add the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Line the pie plates with pie 
crust (see recipe), and bake the un- 
der crust. Add the custard, and let 
it get slightly brown in the oven. 
Then take out, and spread over the 
Whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, with two tablespoonfuls of fine 
white powdered sugar. Let It bake 
for about three minutes longer in a 
quick oven, and serve cold. The me- 
ringue on top must be slightly 
browned. 

Peach Pie. 

Tarte de Piches. 
1 Dozen Large Peaches. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
A Plain Paste. 
. Pare and cut the peaches into 
slices. Stew the peaches and pro- 
ceed in exactly the same manner as 
for Apple Pie. (See recipe.) Sprinkle 
tie tops of the covers with fine white 
Jiswdered sugar when ready to serve. 

Peach Merliigiie Pie. 

- Tarte de PSches M6rlngu§es. 

1 Dozen Peaches. Sugar to Taste. 

TJTiItes of 6 Eggs. 6 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Pare and stone the peaches, and 

Btew according to recipe. (See re- 



cipe Stewed Apples or Peaches.) Line 
the bottoms of two pie pans with a 
rich pie crust, and then fill in with 
the peaches, which you will have 
sweetened to taste. Bake in a quick 
oven twenty or twenty-five minutes. 
Beat the whites of six' eggs to a 
stiff froth with the sugar, which 
should be fine w^hite powdered. Add a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. When the 
meringue can stand alone, cover the 
tops of the pies three-quarters of an 
inch thick, after baking, and set 
back in the oven and bake for two 
or three minutes, to a nice, delicate 
brown. 

All fruit meringue pies are made in 
the same way. 

Pear Pie. 

Tarte de Poires. 
6 Fine Pears. 
^ Cup of Sugar. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 
A Plain Paste. 
Peel and core and slice six fine 
pears. Put them in a vessel with 
the sugar and water, and stew. Pre- 
pare a plain paste, .and proceed in 
exactly the same manner as for Ap- 
ple Pie. (See recipe.) 

Pineapple Pie. 

Tarte d' Ananas. 
1 Fine iPlneapple. % Cup of Sugar. 

A Plain Pie Paste. 
Peel and slice into very fine, thin 
slices one pineapple. Place with the 
juice in a saucepan with the sugar, 
•and stew slightly. Prepare a plain 
pie paste, and proceed in the same 
manner as for Apple Pie. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Plantain Pie. 

pate de Plantain. 
2 Plantains. 
% Cup of Sugar. 
A Plain Paste. . 

Peel, slice ana stew the plantains, 
and proceed in the same manner as 
for Apple Pie. (See recipe.) 

Plantain Meringme Pie. 

pate de Plantain Mgringue. 

2 Plantains. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices. 

Whites of 3 Eggs. 

. 1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

Peel, slice and stew the plantains, 

mash through a sieve, and proceed 

as in recipe for Apple Meringue Pie. 

(See recipe.) 

Pnmpkin Pie. 
Tarte de Citrouille. 
Use the delicate Cashaw for this 
pie. Take 

1 Pint of Mashed, Stewed Pumpkin. 
1 Pint of Milk. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

i. Eggs. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
% Teaspoonful Each of Ground Mace, Cinna- 
mon and Allspice. 
Boil a quart of pumpkin, out into 



249 



dioe-shaped pieces, putting it on with 
Just enough water to Iceep from 
burning, say about a quarter of a 
cupful. Let It stew slowly for an 
hour, at least, or until tender. Then 
drain and press through a colander. 
Add a good tablespoonful of butter 
and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix well; and let It cool. When 
cool, put the pumpkin, using one pint, 
into a large bowl, and add the pint 
of milk, the ground spices, and mix 
all well together, and add the above 
amount of sugar, or sugar to taste. 
Then beat four eggs well and add to 
the mixture. Add a tablespoonful 
of brandy, if desired. Line the pie 
pans, and bake the under crust. Fill 
with the mixture, and bake in a quick 
oven for half an hour. When cold, 
sprinkle lightly with white pow- 
dered sugar, -and serve. This quan- 
tity will make three pies. 

Raspberry Pie. 

Tarte de Fraraboises. 

1 Quart of Berries. 

1 Gup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful Street Spices, Blended Equally. 

% Cup of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Pick, w^ash and stem the berries; 
then put them In a porcelain-lined 
saucepan, and let them stew gently, 
adding the water and the butter. 
Season well with a little ground 
cinnamon, mace and allspice. When 
done, take oft and allow to cool a 
little. Make a flaky pie crust (see 
recipe), and line the tin plates, after 
greasing slightly with butter, and 
bake the bottom crust slightly brown. 
Take out and fill in with the berries, 
and then cover the top with a thin 
layer of crust. Decorate the edges, 
and set in the oven to bake. When 
a nice, delicate brown, take out and 
let them cool. Remove from the tin 
plate by slightly loosening the outer 
edge with a knife. Turn over into 
a china plate, sprinkle with white 
sugar, and serve cold or hot. 

StraTTberry Pie. 

Tarte de Fraises. 

1 Quart of Berries. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

'/4 Cup of "Water. 

X Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful Sweet Spices, Blended Equally. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
■ ner as for Raspberry Pie. (See re- 
cipe.) 

It might be remarked that all the 
above fruit pies may be made into 
meringue pies, the same as the Peach 
Meringue and Apple Meringue pies. 

All fruit pies are delightful eaten 
with a glass of fresh milk or cream. 



Sweet Potato Custard Pie. 

Flan de Patates Douoes. 

3 Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

3 Egga. 1 Cup of Milk. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

H Teaspoonful of Cinnamon. 

The Grated Zest and Juice of an Orange. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Brandy, if Liquor Ja 

Desired. 

Wash the potatoes well, and boil 
them until tender,' but not overdone. 
Thirty minutes will suffice. When 
cold, peel and grate them, and then 
beat together the butter and sugar 
till light. Add the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten till light, and then beat in 
the potatoes, stirring first gradually, 
and then beating lightly and stead- 
ily. Add the spices and the orange, 
and brandy, if desired, and then line 
one deep pan or two small pie pans 
if preferred, with the pie crust. (See 
recip^.)' Bake lightly, fill in lightly 
with -the ' potatoes, and bake in a 
,quick Qjsen for a half hour. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and while beating add two table- 
spoonfuls of white powdered sugar. 
When the pies are baked, heap the 
meringue on the top, set back in the 
oven, and let them bake for two or 
three minutes only, to a light brown. 

Vol-au-Vent. 

1 Pound- of Flour. 

1 Pound of Butter, or Half Butter and Half 

Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 1 Cup of Ice Water. 

1 Egg. 

Vol-au-vent Paste is always diffi- 
cult to make, and should never be 
attempted by inexperienced house- 
keepers, if they are expecting com- 
pany. Practice first before essay- 
ing to make others eat your efforts. 

Make the Puff Paste as directed 
.(see 'Puff Paste), and let it stand in 
a cool place at least Six hours. Roll 
the paste out very thin, and then line 
the deep pan in which you intend to 
cook the chicken or meat. Cut 
around the edge nicely with a kinfe. 
Then take another small pan and 
cover it only half way with, the paste. 
Cut around the edges, trimming off 
all strings of dough. Then brush 
the paste all around the_ top with a 
beaten egg. Put it on a sheet iron 
or square tin, and set it on the ice 
till very cold. Then set it in a very 
hot oven to bake for about half an 
hour. Do not let it burn or scorch. 
When done, fill the inside with chick- 
en, pigeon or other meat (a-lready 
fricasseed.) with which you intend to 
make the Vol-au-Vent and then cov- 
er with the top crust. Fill around 
the edges- with strips of paste left 
over, and piled one over another for 
about three thicknesses, set in the 
oven to bake, and serve hot. 

This is the true Vol-au-vent paste, 



250 



and chicken, pigeons, small birds, 
veal or meats may be used for fill- 
ing-. But the best chicken pie is the 
old-fashioned one, made by filling the 
pan with pie crust (see recipe), bak- 
ing it, and the edges which you have 
cut around lightly, and then filling 
In with the chicken and strips of 
dough between, and covering with a 



thin cover of the paste, baking brown 
and serving hot. 

Oyster Patties. 

BouchSes d'Huitres. 
Prepare a puff paste, and proceed 
in exactly the manner outlined under 
the chapter on "Oysters." (See Oys- 
ter Patties.) 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 



PUDDINGS. 

Des Poudings. 



We have no real French word for 
pudding. Puddings are essentially 
English in origin. French chefs in- 
troduced them into France, retain- 
ing, with a slight modification of 
spelling, the expressive name for the 
dish. The Cieoles adapted the dish 
to many of the delightful fruits of 
ILiOuisiana. 

Puddings may be either boiled or 
baked. One rule may be given for 
the baked pudding, and one for the 
boiled, or more properly, the "roll," 
and these will be the guides of the 
intelligent cook. In the boiled pud- 
dings it is generally necessary to 
make a dough, using the Plain Paste 
(see recipe), and then the dough is 
rolled out, and the raw fruit placed 
within. The dough is then rolled 
over and over, so as to form layers 
first of dough, and then of fruit. 
Sew up in a clean cloth, and boil 
till done. 

Blackberry Roll. 

Bourrelet aux Mtires. 

1 Quart of Blackberries. 

A Plain Paste, Not Too Flaky. 

Make a Plain Paste, which should 
be rather firm, to prevent the berries 
from escaping. Roll this out to about 
one and a half feet in length, or one 
foot, according to the size of the 
family, and the number of guests. 
one foot being ample for a family of 
six. Spread the blackberries, whjch 
you will have carefully picked, over 
this paste, and then carefully roll 
over and over until the entire paste 
is taken up. Then sew in a clean 
piece of white muslin, and put into 
a kettle of boiling water. Let it 
boil continuously for at least two 
hours and a half. Then take out, 
let it cool slightly, rip the cloth 
which binds it, and serve immediately 
with a Hard Sauce or Cream or Bran- 
dy Sauc3. (See recipes Sauces for 
Puddings, etc.) 

Peach Rolls, Apple Rolls, Banana;. 
Strawberry, Raspberry, Cherry and 
Currant Rolls, and Plantain Rolls, are 



made in the same manner. Always 
slice and peel the peaches and stone 
them; also stone the cherries, and 
peel and seed the apples. Peel the 
plantains and bananas and slice very 
thin before rolling in the -dougti. 
Some serve the roll cold, but then 
it is always a little tough, for the 
boiled dough hairdens easily. A 
boiled pudding should always be eat- 
en .hot. The pudding may be boiled 
in a mold, in which case it should- 
be well-covered, and the mold first 
buttered. 

The fruits may be mixed, in which 
case excellent results are produced. 

Boiled Dumplings. 

:fichaud6s a, I'Anglaise. 
8 Large, Fine, Rosy Apples. Sauce. 

Prepare a Plaiij Paste (SEse recipe), 
and cut into squares, and put in the 
center of each a, fine, juicy apple, 
pared and cored, or a, half apple, 
pared and cored. Wrap the fruit up 
in the dough, and place these in 
small dumpling cloths (the Creoles 
sometimes do not use cloths), and 
put them into boiling water, and let 
them boil for at least an hour. On 
taking out the apple, if so desired, 
the' inner core may be filled with 
some delicate jelly or marmalade. ' 
Serve with Hard, Cream or Brandy 
Sauce. (See recipes Sauces for Pud- 
dings, etc.) 

Dumplings of other fruits are made 
in the same way. In making a peach 
dumpling, cut the peach in half, stone 
it, put together again, or place the 
halves each in separate pieces of 
dough in dumpling cloths. Cut ba- 
nanas and plantains into quarters. 

Always dip the pudding and dump- 
ling cloths first in hot water before 
sewing up the pudding or dump- 
lings in them. Dumplings must be 
served as soon as done. 



251 



Old-Faahloned Creole Apple 
Diunpllnss, 

fichaudfes de Pommes k, I'Ancienne 
Mode Crfiole. 

S Large, Fine, Rosy Apples. 

-1 Large Kitchen Spoonful of Butter. 

2 Large Kltcben Spoonfuls ot Sugar. 

1 Cup of Seeded Raisins. The Grated Zest of 

1 Orange. 

An old-fashioned Creole apple 
dumpling, much to the taste of little 
children, is made by dropping the 
dumpling into the boiling water 
without wrapping them in cloths. Af- 
ter they have boiled an hour, beat 
one large kitchen spoonful of but- 
ter and two of sugar to a thick 
cream, and stir into the water witjh 
the dumplings. Add one cup of seed- 
ed raisins, and the grated zest of one 
orange. Let all boil twenty minutes 
longer. Put the dumplings into a 
dish, pour the sauce over, and serve 
hot or cold. 

Baked Dumplings. 
fichaudfis Rotis. 

8 Large, Fine, Rosy Apples. 
Sauce. 

Prepare a Plain Paste. (See re- 
cipe.) Cut into squares and proceed 
to prepare the dumplings in exactly 
the same manner as in the recipe for 
Boiled Dumplings (see above recipe), 
only, instead of boiling the dumplings 
set in the oven in a baking dish, and 
bake to a delicate brown. Serve with 
a Hard, Cream or Brandy Sauce. (See 
recipes Sauces for Puddings.) Dump- 
lings of other fruits are made and 
baked in the same way. 

Rice Dumplings. 

:fichaud6s de Riz. 

% Pound ot Mashed, Cold, Boiled Rice. 
^ Dozen Apples. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Egg. 
Pare the apples and take out the 
cores. Fill the interiors with sugar 
and cinnamon. Beat the egg and the 
rice together, add the flour, and 
knead to a dough. Cover the apples 
with a thick coating of rice, and 
then tie each in a dumpling cloth, 
and put them in a pot of boiling 
water. Let them boil for three- 
quarters of an hour. When done, 
turn cut carefully on a dish, and 
serve with a Hard or Cream Sauce. 
Or the dumplings may be baked in 
the oven. 

Roly Poly. 

Bourrelet. 

% Pound of Flour. 5 Ounces of Suet. 

1 Pint of Fresh Fruit, Jam or Jelly. 

Vi Teaspoouful of Salt. 

Cut away all the fibers from the 

•uet, and then ralnce very fine. Add 

the flour and salt to it, and mix well 

together, and gradually add sufficient 



water to make a dough. Roll it out 
about half an inch in thickness on a 
baking board, and then spread over 
thinly with minced fresh fruits, min- 
gled, or with fruit Jam or preserves, 
singly or mingled. Roll it up, and 
put in a cloth, leaving room for it 
to swell. Then plunge into boiling 
water, and let it boil for two hours. 
Serve with Hard, Cream or Brandy 
Sauce. 

An Orange Roly Poly is made by 
seeding the oranges 'and laying them 
thinly sliced all over the sheet of 
dough. Sprinkle lightly with white 
sugar, and roll up and fasten closely 
in the pudding cloth. Bqi], for one 
hour, and eat with Lemoii or Orange 
Sauce. ■ 

Peaches and apples and other fruits 
may be used in niaking these deliglit- 
ful roly polys. 

Plum Pudding. 
Pouding aux Raisins. 
1 Pound of Raisins. 1 Pound ot Currants. 
14 Pound of Citron. 
% Pound of Butter. % Pound of Suet. 
% Pound of Sugar. % Pound of Flour, 

6 Eggs. % Pint of llilk. 

% Cup of Brandy. 1 Grated Nutmeg. 
^ Ounce Each of Ground Cloves, Mace, Cin- 
namon and Allspice. 
The Grated- Zest of 1 Lemon. 
The Grated Zest of Half an Orange. 
Seed the raisins and chop them fine. 
Seed the currants, after washing and 
picking over very carefully. Mince 
the citron, and grate the zest of the 
orange and lemon. Theh proceed as 
follows: Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream, and then beat in the 
yolks of the eggs, which have been 
previously beaten to a perfect de- 
gree of lightness. Then add the 
flour, beating in by degrees till very 
light, and the whites of the eggs, 
which have been beaten to a stiff 
froth. Add the spices and beat in 
well. Mince the suet and the fruits 
very fine and add, and lastly add 
the brandy, which you will beat thor- 
oughly into the pudding. When all. 
is well-mixed, have ready the pud- 
ding cloth; wet with hot water, and 
wrung perfectly dry. Dredge it 
slightly with flour, and wrap the 
pudding in it. Sew it up, and put 
. into a kettle of boiling water, and 
let it boil for six hours. Serve with 
a Hard or Brandy Sauce. 
Old-Fashioned Creole Plum Pudding. 
Pouding aux Raisins 3. I'Ancienne 
Mode Creole. 
2 Pounds ot Beef Suet. IH Pounds of Flour. 

1 Pound of Sugar. The Yolks of 8 Eggs. 
1 Pound of Raisins. 1 Pound of Currants. 

Vi Pound ot Citron. 

1 Glass of Madeira Wine. 2 Glasses of Brandy 

1 Nutmeg. 

A Pinch ot Cinnamon. A Hard or Brandy 

Sauce. 
Chop finely two pounds of beef 
suet. Take one anda half pounds of 



252 



flour, mix with auet; add to this one 
pound of sugar, the yolks of eight 
eggs, one pound of raisins, stoned 
and floured; one- pound of currants, 
one-quarter pound citron, chopped 
fine; one glass Madeira wine, two 
glasses brandy, one nutmeg, grated, 
and a little cinnamon. Beat the 
whole well together, adding milk till 
of proper consistency. Wrap in a 
cloth, previously scalded and floured, 
leaving room for the pudding to 
swell; boil six hours, and serve with 
Brandy or Hard Sauce. 

Baked Puddings and Dumplings. 

Des Poudings et des fiohaudfis au 
Flour. 

In baked puddings this invariable 
rule must be observed — the .whites 
and the yolks of the eggs must be 
beaten separately, if you would 
achieve the best results. Custards 
come under the same class as pud^ 
dings, in a way, and when baked both 
should be put into the oven the mo- 
ment they are made, and baked in- 
stantly. Once done, they should be 
taken out, and if to be eaten Hot, 
should be served at once; if cold, 
they should be set in a cool, sweet, 
fresh place. Nothing so absorbs as 
milk, and when this ingredient en- 
ters into the composition of any dish 
if it is to be eaten cold, care should 
be taken to keep it in a cool, fresh 
place. 

' Appl« Pudding. 

Poudltig de Pommes. 

1 pint of Apples. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of White Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonfnl of Butter. 
Vi TeaspooQful Each of Nutmeg, Mace, All- 
spice and Cinnamon, Grated. 
1 Spoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

Stew the apples according to re- 
cipe (see recipe), and while the ap- 
ples are boiling stir in the butter 
and the spices. Then take from the 
fire, and add the well-beaten yolks 
of the eggs. Beat all very light. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff' froth, and beat well into the 
pudding. Put into a buttered dish, 
and bake for fifteen minutes in the 
oven. When nicely browned, grate 
nutmeg on top, and serve cold, with 
cream or milk. 

Apple Meringue Pudding. 

Ponding MSringug au Pommes. 

1 Pint of Apples. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of White Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonfnl of Butter. 
Vi Teaspoonful Each of Nutmeg. Mace, All- 
spice and Cinnamon, Grated. 
1 Spoonful of Vanilla Essence. 
Stew the apples according to re- 
cipe (see recipe), and whil'e the' ap- 
ples are boiling stir in the butter 
and the spices. Then take from the 
fire, and add the well-beaten yolks 



of the eggs. Beat all very light, 
and put into a buttered dish, and 
bake for fifteen minutes in the oven. ' 
Then cover with a meringue made 
with the whites of the eggs, Jhe 
essence, and the white powdered su- 
gar, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake to 
a light brown, and serve cold with 
fresh milk or cream. 

Peach Meringue Pudding, Cherry 
Meringue Pudding,. Pear Meringue 
Pudding, Orange Meringue Pudding, 
Blackberry Meringue Pudding and 
Fig Meringue Pudding are all made 
in the same way, only the figs must 
not be overripe when cooked. 

The same fruits may be made into 
the plain"puddlvg by following, the . 
first recipe. All are most excellent, 
and in their season these fruits are 
so cheap in our clime that there is 
no reason why the poorest may not 
enJoy> these delightful desserts. 

Banana Pudding. 

Pouding de Bananes. 
6 Bananas. Stale Cake. 

1 Pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. % Cup of Sugar. 

Cut the stale cake very thin. Peel 
and slice the bananas. Put a layer of 
cake at. the bottom of a buttered 
baking dish. Place over this a layer 
of the sliced bananas. Pour over this 
a layer of milk custard, made from 
the above ingredients, and boiled very 
thin. (See Custard.) Add another 
layer of cake, then one of banana and 
custard, and so continue till you 
have used up all. Make the top layer 
of the. custard. Put in an oven, 
cover with a piece of paperi bake for 
half an hour, and let the top brown 
slightly, and serve cold. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. 

Pouding au Nid d'Oiseau. 

6 Apples. 1 Pint- of, Rich Cream. 

2 Cups of Flour. 1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Pare and core the apples, and then 
put them in the bottom of a but- 
tered dish. Mix the creanj with the 
flour until smooth, and add a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, which 
you will have dissolved well in a ta- 
blespoonful of boiling water. Mix 
again thoroughly, and pour over the 
apples. Set in a moderate oven, and 
bake for one hour. Serve with Hard, 
Cream or Brandy Sauce. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Bread Pudding. 

Pouding de Pain. 

Utilize left-over stale bread in this 
pudding. 

' 1 Quart of Stale Bread. 

3 Eggs. 1 Cup Raisins. 1% Pints of Mlli. 

. 1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Beat the eggs well, and mix, and 
then, when very light, add the milk. 
If you use stale cake, add two table- 



253 



spoonfuls of sugar; if you use stale 
bread, add half a cup of sugar. Mix 
thoroughly. Wet the bread and 
squeeze.it. Then mix in it a cup of 
seeded raisins. Bea.t the egg mixture ' 
thoroughly into this, and place in 
the oven and bake for an hour. Serve 
with Hard, Cream, Brandy or Lemon 
Sauce. (See recipes.) 

Brown Betty PudcUng, 

Pouding a, la Muiatresse. 

1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

2 Cups of Chopped Apples. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Vi, Spoonful Each of Ground Spices. 

Utilize stale bread crumbs for this 
pudding. Butter the bottom of a 
baking pan, and put in a layer of 
the apples, which you will have 
stewed nicely. Put over this a layer 
of bread crumbs, and sprinkle with 
sugar and dot with butter. Sprinkle 
lightly with the spices. Continue 
this till you have used up all the ap- 
ples. Put a layer of bread crumbs 
on top. Place in a moderate oven, 
and bake to a nice-brown. Serve hot, 
with Cream Sauce or Hard Sauce. 

Cake or Bread Pnddlng. 

Pouding de Gateau ou de Pain. 

1 Quart of Stale Cake. 

S Eggs. 1 Cup Raisins. 1% Pints Milk. 

1 TeaapoonCnl' of Vanilla. 

Utilize Jeft-over cake in this pud- 
ding. Be^t the eggs well, and - mix 
and then,'- when very light, add the 
milk. If you use stale cake, add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar; if you use 
stale bread, add half a cup of sugar. 
Mix thoroughly. Spread the bottom 
of the pan with the raisins, and then 
put a layer of cake over them, sliced 
very thin. Sprinkle this with rais- 
ins, and continue adding the cake and 
raisins alternately till all are used. 
Add a little essence of lemon or va- 
nilla to the egg mixture, and pour 
all this over the cake. • Set in the 
oven and bake for an hour. Serve 
with Hard or Lemon Sauce. Some 
.add a little Sherry Wine. That is ac- 
cording to taste and the methods of 
the family. 

Chocolate PuddlQs, 

Pouding au Choctflat. 

3 Ounces of Grated Chocolate. 

3 Eggs. 

1 Quart of Milk. % Cup of Powdered Sugar. 

% Cup of Powdered Crackers. 

% Cup of Butter. 1 Pinch of Salt. 

Soak the cracker crumbs in wa- 
ter for a few minutes, to dissolve 
them, and then squeeze out thorough- 
ly. Dissolve the chocolate in a littl^e 
milk, and add the other ingredients. 
Pour all into a buttered dish, and 
let bake for twenty minutes. Then 
take out, and let It cool slightly. 



Spread over the top a meringue made 
of one cup of powdered sugar and the 
whites of three e^gs. Set back in 
the oven to brown slightly for two 
minutes, and serve cold. 

Cottagre Pudding. 

Pouding de Mfinage. 

1 Cup of Milk. 1 Cup of Sugar. 3 Eggs. ' 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1% Cups of Flour. 
1 TeaspDouful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the sugar and the yolks of 
the eggs, and then add the milk and 
the flour. Add the whites, beaten to 
■a stiff froth. Beat carefully into the 
-pudding. Add the baking powder, 
and pour into a buttered pan, and 
cook in a moderate oven for three- 
tjuarters of an hour. Serve this pud- 
ding hot, with Vanilla, Cream or 
Lemon Sauce. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Pouding de Coco. 

1 Grated Cocoanut. 1 Quart ot Milk. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Cornstarch. 

Put the milk in a boiler and add 
the cornstarch as it commences to 
boil, first moistening the cornstarch 
with a little water. Stir until very 
smooth. Then add the yolks of the 
eggs, well beaten, and, then the sugar. 
I.iastly, add the whi1;es, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Then add the grated co- 
coanut, turn into the baking pan, 
and bake for half an hour. Serve 
cold, with I Vanii'la Sauce. . (See re- 
bipe.) 

Cream Puddings, 

Pouding a. la CrSme. 

6 Eggs. % Cup of Sugar. 

1 Pint Flour. 1 Pint Milk. 1 Grated Lemon. 

1 Pint of Kich Cream. A Pinch of Salt. 

Mix the sugar and the grated lem- 
on. Beat the yolks of the eggs well, 
and add to the mixture. Then add 
the flour, well-sifted; beat light, and 
add one pint of milk and one pint of 
rich cream. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and add. Bake a half 
hour in a buttered dish. Serve with 
Lemon Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Creole Fig Pudding. 

Pouding de Figues a, la CrSole. 

% Pound of Figs. 

% Pound of 'Grated Bread Crumbs. 

1 Teacupful of Milk. 2^ Ounces of Sugar. 

"3 Ounces of Butter. 2 Eggs. 

Chop the figs fine, and beat the 
sugar and the yolks of the eggs to a 
thick cream. Add the melted butter 
and the bread crumbs, which havd 
been wet and squeezed thoroughly. 
Add the milk and the whites of the 
■eggs, beaten to a thick froth. Butter 
a mold and sprinkle with flour. 
Steam lightly for three hours. Serve 
with a Hard, Cream or Brandy Sauce. 



254 



Fig Fu<Idins, 

Pouding de Figues. 

1 Pint of Fresh Figs. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Milk. 1 Gup of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

^ Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 

H Cup of Butter. 

Peel the figs and cut fine. Then 
make a batter of the eggs, flour and 
milk, according to recipe (Apple Bat- 
ter Pudding). When smooth, add 
the fruit. Turn into a baking pan, 
and bake for an hour. Serve with 
Wine Sauce. (See recipe.) 

This pudding may be boiled by add- 
ing two Clips of flour to the batter, 
and rolling and sewing in a well- 
floured dumpling cloth and boiling 
for'three hours. (See recipe.) 

Indian Puddlnj^. 

Pouding a rindienne, 

, 2 Cups of Indian Meal. 

H Cup Butter. 1 Cup Sugar. 2 Cups MUk. 
% Cup of Molasses. 
1 Cup of Seeded Balsins. 
Pour sufficient boiling water ok 
the meal to wet it thoroughly, and 
then beat in ,the butter. Add the 
sugar, beating thoroughly, and the- 
salt. Then add the milk, stirring 
well, also the molasses and the rais- 
ins. Add one teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of cinnamon, and one-quarter of 
a grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly. 
Bake for two and a half or three 
hours, and serve cold with cream. 

Baked Lemon Pudding. 

Pouding de Citron au Four. 

% Pound of Butter. 

% Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

1 GUI of Sherry and Brandy, Mixed. 

i Small Stale Sponge Cake. 6 Eggs. 

Grate the rind of the oranges, and 
squeeze out the juice after remov- 
ing the seeds. Grate the inner meat. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a thick 
cream, and then add the wine. Add 
these to the oranges, grated with 
the rind. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and the yolks 
separately. Add them in order to the 
mixture. Place in a moderately quick 
oven, and let it bake for about a half 
hour. When .done, let, it cool slight- 
ly. Place a ^neringue on top, as In 
Apple Meringue Pudding (see recipe), 
and set back to bake two minutes 
more. Serve cold. 

The pudding may be baked in a. 
rich pie crust, set in a deep pan. 

Slolasses Pudding. 

Pouding de Melasse. 

1 Cup of New Orleans Molasses. 
1 Cup of Milk. % Cup of Melted Butter. 

% Cup of Sherry Wine. 

3 Cups Flour. % Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

l^ Teaspoonful Each of the Four Spiiies. 

Dissolve the baking powder in the 

flour, mixing thoroughly. Melt the 



butter and add it to the molasses, 
and then add the milk, mixing thor- 
oughly. Add the flour, gradually 
mixing well, and then add the wine, 
and lastly the spices. Blend all well 
together. Pour into a well-buttered 
pan, and let it bake for about two 
hours. Serve with Foamy Sauce. 

This pudding may also be boiled 
by sewing in a well-floured dump- 
ling cloth and boiling for three 
hours. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Pouding Nesselrode. 

V^ Pint at iCbmtnata. 

% Pint ' of Almonds. 1 ^nt of Oream. 

1 Pint of BoillnK Water. 

% Pound of Mixed French Candles of tbt 

Finest Kind. 

% ot a Grated Pineapples, or ^ of a Can. 

The Yolks of Six EsES. 

1 Tablespoontul of Vanilla Easence, 

Shell the chestnuts and throw 
them into boiling water to blanch. 
Then take off the brown skin, and 
set them in a saucepan and cover 
with boiling water, and let them 
boil for twenty minutes. Then drain 
and press them through a colander. 
Shell the almonds and blanch them 
for twelve minutes in boiling water. 
Then take them out and pound them, 
and out the fruit into very small 
pieces. Put the .^ugar and the water 
on to boil togethf, and let the mix- 
- ture boil for ten minutes. Then 
■beat the yolks of the eggs very, very 
light, and add them to the boiling 
syrup. Let it boil up once, and take 
off, and then beat very lightly with 
an egg beater, till cool. (Use a wire 
beate^.) Add all the fruits, the al- 
monds and ches'tnuts, and the pint 
of cream, and a tablespoonful of Vai- 
nilla Essence. Beat well, and add 
four tablespoonfuls of Sherry. Put 
the pudding into a freezer to freeze 
and ripen, and let it stand covered 
with a carj^et for faur or five hours, 
or till frozen, renewing the ice and 
salt and draining off water as neces- 
sary. This will serve eight persons 
nicely. Some of the cream may be 
worked in with Spinach greenery, 
as in Pistachio Ice Cream (see re- 
cipe), and a delicate coating of green 
given to the pudding, which adds to 
the effect. The pudding may be 
served with cream whipped to a stift 
froth. 

Orange Pudding. 

Pouding d'Orange. 

2 Large Louisiana Oranges. 

% 'Pound of Butter. 

% Pound of 'Powdered Sugar. 

1 Gill of Sherry and Brandy, Mixed. 

1 Stale, Small Sponge Cake. 6 Eggs. 

Grate the rind of the oranges, and 
squeeze out the juice after removing 
the seeds. Grate the inner meat. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 



255 



thick cream, and then,add the wine. 
Add tliese to tlie oranges, grated 
witli ttie rind. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, and tlie 
yollts separately. Add them in order 
to the mixture. Place in a moder- 
ately Quick oven, and let it bake for 
about a half hour. When done, let 
it oobi slightly. Place a rneringue 
on top, as in above recipe, and set 
back to bake two minutes more. 
Serve' cold. 

Pencil Batter Pudding. 

Pouding de PSches. 

1 rint of Milk. 2 Cups of Floor. 

3 KztB. 8 Feacbea. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

% Teaspoontul at Salt. 

2 Tablespooutuls of Melted Batter. 

Beat tlie yolks and whites of the 

eggs till very light, and mix, and add 

the milk. Beat steadily until smooth. 

Then add the melted butter, the salt 

and the baking powder. Have the 

peaches stewed till almost cooked, 

and stir them into the pudding, after 

cutting fine. Then turn the pudding 

into the mold or pan in which it is 

to be baked. Bake for an hour, and 

serve hot, with Cream, Brandy or 

Hard Sauce. (See recipes Sauces for 

Puddings, etc.) 

Fruit Batter Puddings. 

Poudings de Fruits. 
Cherry Batter Pudding, Apple 
Batter Pudding and all fruit batter 
puddings are made in tlie same Tyay 
as Peach Batter Pudiiing. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Pineapple Pudding. 

Pouding d' Ananas. 

1 Fine Pineapple. 1 Pint of Milk. 
'A Pound of Ploup. 
3 Eggs. 3 TabiespoontuU of Batter. 

% Cup of Sugar. 
A Sauce au Klisch. 
Boil the milk in a saucepan and 
add the butter. Sift the flour and 
add gradually to the mixture, stir- 
ring briskly for three minutes. Take 
off the fire, and add the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten very light. Stir 
well, and add the powdered sugar. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, and add gradually to the 
milk. Then take a puddiug mold 
and butter well; sprinkle with su- 
gar and put a layer of the milk-and- 
egg preparation about half an inch 
thick at the bottom. Put over this 
a layer of finely-sliced pineapple, 
then add another layer of the milk 
and eggs and a lay'er of the pineap- 
ple, and continue till all the pine- 
apple and the mixture are used up. 
Set the mold in a tin pan of warm 
■water, and place in the oven anc?. 
cover with buttered paper. Let the 



pudding steam for c^e hour; then 
remove from the oven, turn into a 
pudding dish, and serve with a Sauce 
au Kirsch. (See recipe Sauces for 
Puddings, etc.) 

Raspberry Pudding. 

Pouding de Framboises. 

1 Quart of Raspberries. 

% Pound of Powdered Su;;ar. 

% Pound of Butter. 

1 Glli of Sherry Wine and Brandy Mixed. 

1 Stale Small Sponge Cake. Eggs. 

Stew the berries and proceed in 
the same manner as for Orange Pud- 
ding. Bake for about twenty min- 
utes or half an hour after adding 
the fruit, and serve cold, with a 
■Cream or Hard Sauce. 

These fruit puddings are the most 
delicious of Louisiana puddings. 

' SagQ Pudding. 

Pouding au Sagou. 

1 Quart of Milk. % Pound of Sago. 

Vn Cup of Powdered Sugar. 4 Eggs. 

1 Xeaspoonful of VanLla Essence. 

Boil the milk and add the sago, 
and stir .briskly for ten or fifteen 
minutes. Then take off the stove 
and set to cool. Add the sugar and 
mix thoroughly. Then add the eggs 
tind a tablespoonful of Vanilla Es- 
sence. Mix thoroughly. Butter a 
pudding mold or pan and fill with 
the mixture. Set in a tin pan; and 
fill the latter with hot water, flace 
in the oven and let it steam for half 
an hour. Remove from the flre, turn 
into a dessert dish and send to the 
table hot. Serve with a Cream 
Sauce. 

SnoTV Pudding. 

Pouding a, la Niege. 

% Box of Gelatine. 1 Pint of Boiling ■Water. 

2 Cups of Susar. 
The Whites of 3 Eggs. The Juice of 3 Lemon* 

Dissolve the gelatine in the boil- 
ing water, and, when- nearly cool, 
add one cup of pow-dered sugar and 
the Juice of one lemon. Beat well 
and lightly, and strain. When cold, 
beat as white as snow, ai^d add the 
whites of the eggs,, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Beat all thoroughly, and pour 
^nto a mold. Stand in a cold place 
for lour hours to harden. Then 
make a Custard Sauce by beating 
the yolks oi the eggs together with 
a half cup of sugar till very light. 
Stir them into the milk, which 
should 'be boiling. Let them cook, 
stirring constantly, for two or three 
minutes. Then add a teaspoonful of 
Vanilla, and set, to cool. Serve with 
the pudding, pouring the sauce upon 
It. 



256 



StTSLwherry Pudding. 

Pouding de Fraises. 

1 Quart of StrawbeiTies. % Pound of Sugar. 
1 Gill of SheiT.v and Brandy, Mixed. 

1 Stale iSmall Sponge Cake. 6 'Eggs. 

Stew the berries and proceed in 
the same manner as for Raspberry 
Pudding. 

Quince pudding is prepared in the 
same manner. 

Sweet Potato Puddlngr. 

Pouding de T'atates Douces. 

1 Pint of Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 
% Pound of Sugar. % iPound of Butter." 

8 Eggs. 

Tlie Juice and Rind of an Orange and Lemon. 

Vi Spoon of Gi-ound Mace. 

The Same of €innoman and Allspice. 

% Orated Nutmeg. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Brandy, y^ Cup of Sherry. 

Grate the potatoes and mash them 
through a sieve, if you use them 
raw. If you use the cold boiled po- 
tatoes, simply mash them. Beat 
the butter and the sugar to a rich 
cream, and add the well-beaten yolks 
o£ the eggs, and then add the 
grated potatoes, and the spices, and 
finally the whites of the eirgs, beat- 
en to a stiff froth. Mix all well. 
Add the liquors. Turn into a but- 
tered baking pan, and let the pud- 
ding bake in a moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. The ad- 
dition of the liquors is optional. 
Serve hot or cold, with Cream Sauce. 
(See recipe.) 

Tapioca Puddlns- 

Pouding au Tapioca. 

1 Quart of Milk. 1 Cup c( Tapioca. 

% Cup of Sugar. 1 TeaspocntL.1 of Vanli:i. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Wash the tapioca well, and then 
add it to the milk and let it soak 
for at least two hours and a half. 
Then beat the eggs separately until 
light. Add them in order to the su- 
gar, beat very light, add the salt 
and the tapioca, and bake for forty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven. 
The pudding may be served either 
hot or cold. 



To make Tapioca Fruit Pudding, 
add one pint of preserved raspberries 
to the above. 

The Qoeen of All Pnddlng;8. 

La Reine des Poudings. 

1 Pint of Bread Cinm'». 

1 Quart of Milk. 1 Onpof SuKar. 4 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Batter. 

The Juice of a Lemon. 

% Pint of Seeded Currants. 
% IPint of Haisius. 

Soak tjie bread crumbs in water 
for about an hour. Then squeeze 
thoroughly. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs and the sugar very light, and 
then add the milk and the bread 
crumbs, beating all light. Add the 
melted butter and the seeded rais- 
ins and the currants, and the juice of 
one lemon and the grated zest of 
half a lemon. Beat all thoroughly 
together, and set In a moderate oven . 
for a half hour. In the meantime, 
beat the whites to a very stiff froth. 
Add four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, and beat thoroughly till 
very stiff. After half an hour lake 
the pudding out of the oven, if it 
lis nicely browned, and put over the 
top a layer of some fruit jelly, and 
■then a layer of the whites, and then 
another layer of the jelly, and a 
last layer of the whites of the eggs. 
'Set it back in the oven to brown 
for several minutes, and Serve cold 
'with Cream or Wine Sauce. This 
pudding, however, is so delicious 
that it may be served without any 
sauce. The above proportions will 
serve a family of six and two guests. 

Tipsy Squire. 

Pouding au Bon Camarade. 

Left Over Sponge Cake. 

1 Glass Sherry Wine. 

A Boiled Oustard. 

Saturate left-over sponge cake 
with Brandy or Sherry Wine. Then 
take a rich Boiled Custard (see re- 
cipe); place the cake in a deep glass 
dish, and pour the custard over it. 
Decorate with blanched lemons, and 
serve cold. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, AND OTHBR DESSERTS. 



Des Flans, Des Cr6mes, et 



Autre Desserts. 



Blanc Mangier. 

1 Quart of Cr-'am. 

% Cup of Sugir. % Ounce of Gelatine 

1 Tea8..oonJul' of VanllU. 

Dissolve the gelatine in water, and 
then mijc with the milk and cream. 
Let it come to a hoil, add the Va- 
nilla, pour into, a mold, let it harden 
and serve cold. 

Cornstarcli Blanc Manner. 
Blanc Manger a. la FScule de Mai's. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

3 TaMespoonfuls of Cornstarch. 

3 Taljlespoonfuls of Sugar. 

The Whites oif 3 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Dissolve the cornstarch lightly in 
one pint of milk, and then add the 
sugar and the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Put this 
mixture into a pint of boiling milk. 
Let it come to a boil. Flavor w^ith 
the lemon; pour into cups to cool. 
Then, when very cold, turn oiit, and 
serv^_ with Jelly and cream. This 
wiH serve six persdnS'. Serve, if 
you wish, with a Cream Sauce. 

IVeapoIltan Blanc Manger. 

Blanc Manger a. la Neopolitalne. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Cornstarch. 

3 Ta'blespoonfuls of Sugar. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg. The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. . 
1 Tablespoonful of Grated Vanilla Chocolate. 
Whipped Cream. 
To make a Neopolitan Blanc Mang- 
er, first make the above preparation, 
and then separate it into four parts. 
Put the first into a mold, and then 
stir into it, while warm, one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of grated Vanilla 
chocolate. Pour the white prepara- 
tion into the same mold, on top of 
this. Then a layer of the choco- 
late, and then the white. Cover the 
last layer with the yolk of an egg, 
and set to cool and harden. Serve 
cut into thin slices, with whipped 
cream. 

Velvet Blanc Manger. 

Blanc Manger Veloutfi. 

2 Cups of Cream. 

% Cup of Powdered Suear. 

% Cnp of Gelatine, DissolTed in Water (hot). 

1 Glass of White Wine. 

Boil the cream, sugar and gelatine 

together, stirring until smooth. Take 



a teaspoonful of Almond Extract. 
Mix well, and pour into a mold, and 
set to cool and harden. 

Boiled Custaril. 

Oeufs au Lait. 

1 Quart of Milk. 4 Esas. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cornstarcli. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Set the milk to boil. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and the sugar very 
light. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and stir carefully into the 
yolks and the sugar. Moisten the 
cornstarch with a little cold milk, 
and. stir into the boiling milk. Con- 
tinue to stir until it commences to 
thicken. Then add the sugar and the 
eggs. Stir and let it cook for one 
moment longer, and take from the 
flre, add the vanilla, and turn into 
a dish to cool. Serve very cold. 

The cornstarch is added to thick- 
en the custard. If the milk is rich, 
it may be omitted. The custard is 
far more delicate without it. 

Baked custard without corstarch is 
made in he same manner; the cus- 
tard is put in a baking dish, set- 
ting in the oven, and allowed to 
bake till quite firm. By adding two 
tablespoonfuls more of cornstarch 
the custard may be thickened, if de- 
sired. 

Cup Custard. 

Oeufs au Lait. 

4 Eggs. 1 Quart of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cornstarch (If desired). 

% Cup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Beat the eggs together until light, 
and then add the sugar, and beat 
till very light. Now add the milk 
and the nutmeg, and put a pan into 
the oven. Fill the pan with boiling 
water, ^our the custard into cups 
or into nailer pan, and set in the 
boilinr er, and let it bake till 

firm in e center. Set to cool, and 
serve in the cups if they have been 
used. Otherwise serve In dessert 
plates. 

Custard Souffle. 

Flan Souffle. 
1 Cop Milk. 4 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfuls Batter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 
i.^-^ 2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

' ' 1 Tablespoonful Vanilla. 

Boil the milk. Blend the butter 
and the flour nicely, and add to the 



258 



beiJing milk. Stir constantly over 
the flre for ten minutes. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and the sugar to- 
gether, and add these to the milk. 
Then set the mixture to cool. When 
cool, beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, and add to the 
mixture. Turn into a buttered bak- 
ing dish, and bake in a quick oven 
for twenty minutes. Serve with 
Cream Sauce, while hot, otherwise 
it will fall. 

Tapioca Cnstard. 
Flan au Tapioca. 

a Cup of Tapioca. >/4 Cup of Sugar. 
4 EgBS. 1 Phit of Water. 

1 Tumbler of Currant or Strawberry Jelly. 

"Wash the tapioca well several 
■ times, and then soak it well in the 
pint of water for two hours. Add it 
to the Jelly, mixing thoroughly, and 
then add the sugar, and mix again 
until the tapioca is very clear. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a very 
stiff froth, and add them to the ta- 
pioca, and turn it into a mold and set 
away to harden. Make a Vanilla 
Cream Sauce with the yolks of the 
eggs, and serve cold with the cus- 
tard. (See Vanilla Cream Sauce.) 

Almond Custard. 

Flan d'Amandes. 
1 Pint of New Milk. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
% Found of Blanched Almonds (scalded). 
The Yolks of 4 Bgss. 
, Blanch, the almonds after shell- 
ing, and cho^ very fine. Blend tlje 
eggs and sugar, beating thoroughly, , 
and add to the boiling milk. Then 
add the almonds. Stir well, set into 
cups to cool. Place on top a me- 
ringue made of two tablespoonfuls ' 
of white powdered sugar and the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Set in the oven for a few 
seconds to brown, and serve cold. , 

Macaroon Cnstara. 

Flan de Macarons. 

1 Quart of Milk. 
The Yolks of 6 Eggs. ^ Tablespoonful Bnttor. 
3 Tablessoonfuls of Flour. 
• % Cup of Sugar. 1 Dozen Macaroons. 
Set the milk to boil. Blend the 
butter and the flour, and stir into 
the boiling milk. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs with half a cup of sugar, 
very light, and add this to the milk, 
stirring constantly for one minutes, 
and take from tne flre to cool. Add . 
a tablespoonful of orange Juice or 
extract of orange. When cool, crum- 
ble one dozen macaroons over the 
fop of the dish. Moke a meringue 
. with the whites of tne eggs and 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
white sugar. Beat to a stiff froth, 
pile on the custard, and set in the 
oven for a few minutes to brown. 
Serve very cold. 



Rice Custard. 

Riz au Lalt. 
See Rice Custard under chapter on 

Lo.uisiana Rice. 

Charlotte Russe. 

1 Quart of Good Cream. 

% Cup of Powdered White Sugar. 
>4 Box of Gelatine. 1 Teaspoontul of Vanlll*. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sherry Wine. 
^ Pound of Lady Fingers. 
Line a glass dish with the lady 
fingers, or with small slices of cake. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water, Just 
covered, for half an hour. Whip the 
cream, and then dissolve the soaked 
gelatine with the Sherry Wine. Add 
the Vanilla Extract. Add the sugar 
to the cream carefully, and then 
strain in the gelatine very careful- 
ly. Stir immediately, and then pour 
the cream over the lady fingers, and 
set away to harden. 

Parisian Charlotte Russe. 

Charlotte Russe k la Parisienne. 

% Pound of Stale Lady Fingers. 

Vi Box of Gelatine. 1 Cup Grated Cocoaont. 

Vi Pound of Macaroons. 

4 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Soa,k the gelatine in cold water 
for about half an hour. Put one- 
half of the cream to one side, and 
whip the rest. Put the remaining 
pint to boil, and stir into it the 
sugar and eggs, beaten together till 
very light. Stir about one minute, 
and as it thickens add the gelatine, 
which you will have dissolved either 
in a little w^arm water or Sherry 
Wine. Then add the lady fingers and 
a teaspoonful of the vanilla; add 
the macaroons and the grated co- 
coanut. Turn all this into a bowl 
or tin basin, place it on ice, and 
stir continually until it begins to 
harden. Add the whipped cream, 
an'd stir all very carefully. When 
well-mixed, wet a fancy dish of glass 
or a mold, turn the Charlotte Russe 
into it, and stand on the ice to 
harden. 

Some utilize a stale sponge cake in 
making Charlotte Russe, cutting out 
the inside and leaving the sides and 
bottom about an inch in thickness. 
The mixture is poured into this cake, 
and served cold, with sauce. 

Floating Island. 

Oeufs a, la Neige. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

4 Eggs. 4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

' 1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

% Cup of Currant Jelly. 

Put the milk to boil in a farina 

boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs 

with the sugar till very light, and 

stir them into the milk as it begins 

to boil. Let It thicken one minute 

Then take from the flre, and add the 

vanilla and set aglde to cool. Beat 



259 



the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
ilroth, and when the mixture is cold 
pour it into a glass dish, heap on the 
whites of the eggs, and dot here 
and there with bits of Currant Jelly. 
Dust these with powdered sugar, and 
serve very cold. Some add a table- 
spoonful of cornstarch to the boil- 
ing milk, if it is desired to thicken 
the preparation. But the taste of 
cornstarch is never as delightful as 
that of the mixture pure and simple. 

Apple SnoTV. 

Neige aux Pommes. 

6 Pine Apples. 1 Cup Fine White Sugar. 

The Whites o£ Six Fresh Creole Eggs. 

The Juice of One Lemon. 

Pare and core and cut up the ap- 
ples, and steam them in two ta- 
blespoonfuls of water, with a little 
grated lemon peel, till quite soft. 
Then press them through a sieve, 
and add the sugar and the lemon 
juice. Beat the whites of the- eggs 
to a very stiff froth, and a'dd two- 
thirds to the apples, stirring all the 
the whites, and when the eggs and 
apples are, very light beat this with 
a little pdwdered white sugar to 
form a meringue. Place the apples 
in custard glasses, heap on the me- 
ringue, and serve immediately. 

This preparation may be improved 
by putting the apples into a dish, 
heaping on the meringue, and baking 
for one minute In the oven, and 
serving very cold. 

Pineapple Snow. 

Neige a. I'Ananas. 

1 Plnetfpple. The Whites of Four Eggs. 

1 Pint of WhlpDed Cream. 

14 Cup of Powdered Sugar. 

Pare the pineapple, and grate it. 
Beat the whites of ' the eggs until 
foamy, and then add by degrees the 
sifted sugar. Add one tablespoonful 
of Sherry. Stir the whipped cream, 
which m-ust be very cold from stand- 
ing on ice, and when all Is very stiff 
beat in the pineapple, pulp and juice, 
adding a^ much as the cream and the 
meringue will hold without becom- 
ing too soft. Place in glasses, and 
serve very cold. This is a delight- 
ful summer dessert. 

Orange Snow. 

Neige d'Oranges. 
6 Fine Louisiana Oranses. 
A Snow Cream, as Above. 

Prepare this dish in exactly the 
same manner as above. 

First slice the oranges, and re- 
moving the seeds, sprinkle sugar 
over them before adding the snow 
cream. 

Lemon Snow may be made in the 
same manner. 



Snow Cream. 

Neige S, la Cr6me. 

The Whites of Four Eggs. 

1 Pint of Cream. 1 Teaspoontul of Vanilla. 

^ Cup of Powdered Susar. 

1 Tahlespoonful of Sherry. 

"Whip the cream and set on ice. 
Beat the whites oi the eggs to a 
fcam, and then add the sifted white 
sugar, and beat steadily till the mix- 
ture becomes very stiff and glossy. 
Add the Sherry and Vanilla. Stir 
the whipped cream carefully into tlw 
meringue, and set it in small custard, 
glasses to get cold. The Creoles 
often add a tevr blanched almonds. 
Serve very cold, as a summer des- 
sert. 

Strawberries, blackberries, peaches, 
pears, figs, etc., in their natural 
state, may all be made into "snows" 
by following the directions given in 
Pineapple Snow; only the peaches 
and pears and figs and bananas must 
be chopped, and strawberries and 
other berries must be served whole 
in the snow. Grated cocoanut may 
also be served in the same manner. 

A Creole Summer Puddlns. 

Pouding d'ifite. 

1 Pint of Lemon Jelly. 
' 1 Cup of. Stoned Cherries. 

1 Cup of Malaga Grapes. 2 Oranges. 

2 Bananas. % a Pineapple. 

1 Pint of Snow Cream. 
Make a Lemon Jelly (see recipe),' 
add stoned cherries, a few Malaga 
grapes, and the meat of two oranges, 
two bananas and half a pineapple, 
sliced. Pour a little jelly into each 
custard glass. Put a layer first of 
one fruit, then of another, then a 
layer of snow cream, and continue 
alternating till the glass is filled 
with the snow on top. Serve ice 
cold. 

Or the layers may be made in a 
dish, and when ready to serve pour 
over a thin custard, made of the 
yolks of- four eggs and a auart of 
milk and a half cup of sugar. Serve 
very cold. 

Apple Spongre. 

Soufiie de Pommes. 

1 Pound of Apples. 

1 Pound Sugar. 3 Eggs. % Box of Gelatine. 

The Grated Zest of a Lemon. 

% Pint of Boiling Water. 

Boll the sugar and water, and 
when very clear skim the surface. 
Have the apples pared and cored and 
sliced nicely, and place them in the 
syrup. Let them stew until very 
tender. Then add the gelatine, 
which has been soaked in cold water, 
to the mixture, and when well done 
press all through a sieve. Then add 
the rind and juice of the lemons. 



260 



using only the zest of the rind in 
grating the lemon. Stir until it be- 
gins to cool and thicken. Then add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, stirring and beating until 
cool and thick. Use the yolks for 
a "Vanilla Sauce (see recipe), and 
turn the Apple Sponge in a dish 
and serve with the sauce poured 
over it. 

Peach Sponge is made in the same 
way. 

Strawberry Spongre, 

Souffle de Fraises. 

% Pint of Strawberries. 

% Cup of Sugar. 4 Esgs. 

1 Pint of Boiling Water. 

Stew the strawberries gently, and 
press them through a sieve. Soak 
the gelatine in a cup of cold water 
for an hour, and then dissolve with 
a tablespoonful of sherry wine. Pour 
it into the boiling v^iater, and let 
it dissolve well. Add the sugar, and 
let it thicken gently. Then strain, 
and add the strawberries, an set 
It upon ice to cool. Occasionally stir 
to prevent the fruit from settling 
at the bottom. Beat the whites of 
the egars to a stiff froth, and add 
them to the sponge, beating stead- 
ily till very, smooth. Set in a 
fancy bowl to harden, and serve witli, < 
Vanilla Sauce poured over it. (See 
Vanilla Sauce.) 

Blackberry SpCTiige, Leriion Sponge, 
Orange, Raspberry. Currant and Fig 
and Pineapple Sponge are made in 
the same way. 

Apple Saj^o. 

Pommes au Sagou. 

1 Cup of- Sago. 8 Large Apples. 

1 Quart of Boiling Wafer. Sweetened Cream. 

Soak the Sago for half an hour in 
cold water, and then put it in a 
farina boiler and add one quart of 
■boiling water. Pare the apples, and 
add to the Sago, and let all boil to- 
gether till very tender. Sweeten to 
taste. Then bake in a moderate 
oven for twenty minutes, and serve 
with cream. 

Tapioca may be used instead of 
the Sago, and you will then have 
Apple Tapioca. Cherry, Orange, 
Peach and other fruit tapiocas and 
sagoes are made In the same way. 

AMBROSIA. 

Ambrolsie. 

1 Dozen Sweet Louisiana Oranjes. 

1 Cup of White Sugar. 1 Cocoanut. 

Grate the cocoanut after paring. 
Then peel and slice the oranges, 
taking out the seeds. Have a nice 
large glass dish. Put first a layer of 
oranses in the dish, sprinkle with 
sugar, and then a layer of cocoa- 



nut, till all the oranges and cocoa- 
nut are used, the layer of cocoanut 
being the last. Sprinkle with pow- 
dered white sugar, and let it stand 
about two hours before serving. This 
is a famous Creole dessert. 

Pineapple and Orange Ambrosia. 

Ambroisie d'Ananas et d'Orangea. 

1 Large, Kipe Pineapple. 

6 Oranges. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Glass of Slierry or Wliite Wine. 

Slice one large, ripe pineapple 
and six oranges. Put in a glass bowl 
one layer of oranges, sprinkle pul- 
verized sugar over them; then one 
layer of pineapples, also sprinklea 
with sugar and continue till all the 
fruit is used. Pour a wineglassful 
of Sherry or White Wine over the 
top. Let it stand about two hours 
before serving. This is a typical 
Creole dessert. 

Minute Cake. 

Tot Fait. 

6 Eggs. 5 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

3 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 2 Tablespoonfuls Mills. 

The Juice and Rind of a Lemon. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs to & 
cream, and then add the sugar, beat- 
ing thoroughly till very, very light. 
Then blend the flour and milk until 
smooth, and add. Add the juice of 
the lemon and the grated zest, ancl 
beat well again. Then add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a, 
thick froth, turn into a buttered dish 
and bake fifteen minutes in a quick 
oven. 

Strawberry Sbort Cake. 

pate Brisfie aux Fraises. 

^ Pound of Sifted Flour. % Pound of Sugar, 

2 Quarts of Strawberries. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baiting Powder. 6 Kggs. 
1 Quart of Cream. 
% Pound of Powdered Sugar. 
Stem the strawberries. Sweeten to 
taste, and slightly mash. Then set 
them aside. Blend the sugar and 
butter together until very smooth, 
arid add the baking powder, and blend 
well. Add the salt. Then add the 
eggs, breaking them in whole, one 
at a time, and beat all well for ten 
minutes. Add the grated zest of half 
a lemon; by degrees add the flour, 
and mix a:il together very gently. 
Divide into two parts; put one into 
well-buttered baking tins and bake 
in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 
When done, remove the cakes and 
allow them to cool. Detach the 
cakes ■ from the tins by passing St 
knife gently around.' Have a des- 
sert dish ready and lay one of the 
cakes upon It. Spread two table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream oyer, 
and then cover liberally with straw- 



261 



berries. Cover with another cake 
and spread as before with cream 
and then with strawberries. Lay 
the other calce on tOD and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve with 
"Whipped Cream a. la Vanille" (see 
recipe), or with rich cream or milk. 
Peach Short Cake, Kaspberry Short 
Cake and Blackberry Short Cake are 
made in the same way. 

CRBAItlS. 

Des Crimes. 

General Directions for Making Cream 

Uesserts. 

In making creams for desserts, one 
unfailing rule must be observed. In 
making a. cream to serve six or 
eight persons, use either a half box 
of prepared gelatine, or half a pint 
of home-made gelatine. The latter 
if properly made, is always the best, 
aa well as the most economical. The 
gelatine must be soaked for about 
half an hour before using in water 
Just sufficient to cover. This is for 
the purpose of softening it. Or it 
may be moistened with a little Sher- 
ry or Madeira wine. This is accord- 
ing to the taste and the usages of 
the family. The cream must always 
be whipped, the yolks of the eggs 
must be beaten separately from the 
whites,- and the whites of the eggs 
must be beaten to a stiff froth. In 
using flavoring extracts, select, ac- 
cording to taste. Essence of Vanilla, 
Lemon, Pineapple, Almonds, Aro- 
matic Hoses, Orange Flower Water, 
etc. 

Calfa Foot Jelly or Gelatine. 

' GelSe de Pieds de Veau. 

4 Calf's Feet, 5 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Pint of White Wine or Sherry. 

Juice of 2 Lemons. Juice of 2 Oranges. 

% of the Zest of a Lemon, Grated. 
The Whites and the Crushed Shells of Two 

ESBS. 

1 Pound of White Sugar. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of &rated Nutmeg. 
1 Stick of Grated Cinnamon. 
Wash the. feet welL scrubbing 
them thoroughly, in cold water. 
Then put them into a kettle to boil 
with the five quarts of cold water 
given above. Let them simmer slow- 
ly for at least seven or eight hours, 
tin the liquor Is reduced one-half. 
Then strain the liquid into an earth- 
en bowl, and set it away for at 
least twelve hours, or over night. 
Then skim carefully every particle 
of fat from the surface, and remove 
all sediment or dregs from the jelly. 
Put it into a porcelain-lined kettle, 
and set over the fire., and let it 
melt slowly. Add the whites of the 
eggs, well beaten to a froth, and 
the crushed shells, the ground cin- 
namon, the nutmeg, the sugar and 
lemon and orange juice, and the zest 



of the lemon. Mix all these ingred- 
ients thoroughly, and let the jelly 
boil hard, without stirring again, 
for twenty minlites. Then add half 
a cup of water, and let it come again 
to a boil. Set it back on the stove, 
where it cannot boil, and keep it 
closely covered for half an hour. 
Have ready a flannel bag, and dip it 
into boiling water. Hang it up with 
a bowl underneath, and pour the 
jelly into the bag, suspending the 
bag from the end of a thick, short 
pole, where it can drip easily. Tie 
the end of the bag, and let the jelly 
drip freely. On no account squeeze 
or touch it, if you wish to have an 
unclouded jelly. Then the drip- 
pings into a bowl or mold, add the 
wine, and set to cool in a cool 
place. You will then have the genu- 
ine Calf's Foot Jelly, an will know 
that it has not been made of the 
horns and hoofs of animals, etc. 

"Whipped Cream. 

CrSme Fouettfie. 

1 Pint of Sweet Cream. 

2 TaWespoonfuls of Powdered Sugar. 

6 Drops of Jamaica Rum. 

In whippmg cream remember that 
the first great essential is to have 
good cream, and that the great se- 
cret of whipping depends upon the 
right, steady stroke. Always set 
the cream on ice for several hours 
before using. Then sweeten it to 
taste, and add a few drops of Ja- 
maica rum. Have ready a second 
bowl, beat the cream, or, rather, 
whip it, as you would in beating 
eggs to a froth, with clear, steady 
strokes, using an egg beater, or, if 
you have a small crank churn, which 
is better, use it, pressing the dasher 
up and dowp yery hard, and remov- 
ing the ci'eam as it rises around the 
dashboard. In the same way remove 
the cream as it rises, while beating 
with the egg beater, putting the 
whipped portion into the second 
bowl, and continuing the process of 
whipping until all the cream is 
drained. Set on ice, and it will 
keep cool, fresh and sweet and firm. 

The above process is intended 
when the cream is to be used as a 
garnish for desserts. Any essence 
may be used, insteard of the rum. 
When whipping cream for coffee, or 
when you desire the plain whipped 
cream, do not use sugar or essence, 
but simply proceed to whip tho 
cream as directed above. Good, rich 
milk may be whipped into the dream. 

Having given the above explicit 
directions, it will be easy for even 
the veriest amateur to make any of 
the fo'llowing delightful Creole 
cream desserts: 



262 



Whipped Cream and Strawberries, 
Raspberries, Blackberries, etc. 

Crfime FouettSe aux Praises ou aux 
Frarnboises Ou aux Mflres, etc. 

1 Pint of Berries. 

1 Pint of Wliipped Cream. 

1 Cup of Susar. 

Stem the berries, sprinkle nicely 
with white sugar, and set aside for 
several haurs in a cool claee. Serve 
v/ith ths whipped cream, dishing; the 
berries first in serving, and heaping 
the cream prettily on top. 

Whipped Cream With Peaches, 
Cherries, etc. 

CrSme Fouettge aux Peches, aux Ce- 
rises, etc. 
1 Pint of Fruit, Peaclies, or Cherries, or 
Bananas, - or Pears, etc, 
1 Pint of Whipped Gream. 
1 Cup of Suzar, 
Stone the peaches, and slice or cut 
them nicely, adding sugar to taste. 
In like manner stone, but do not 
cut, the cherries if this fruit Is 
used. If bananas or pears are pre- 
ferred peel and slice nicely. Seed 
the pears. Sprinkle, the fruit with 
Eugar, an set it aside in a cool 
place for two hours; and serve with 
the whipped cream, heaping it in 
generous measure at the. moment of 
serving. All fruits that may be 
eaten with cream are prepared in the 
same manner. 

W^hlpped Cream With lilquors. 

CrSme FouettSe aux Liqueurs. 

% Gill of Liqueur. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

It is simply necessary Just before 

whipping the cream, to add a few 

drops of the liQueur with which you 

wish to flavor the cream. 

Whipped Cream With Vanilla, etc. 

Cr6me Fouettge a, la Vanille, etc. 
1 Pint of Cream. 
2 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
1 Teasnoonful of Vanilla Extract. 
Put a pint of sweet cream into a 
basin, add the sugar and the es- 
sence and proceed to whip according 
to the directions given In "Whipped 
Cream" (see recipe.) Always re- 
member to add the essence before 
whipping the cream. This Is the un- 
varying rule to be observed when- 
ever you wish to flavor with any ex- 
tract. 

Foamy Cream. 

CrSme en Mousse. 
1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 
1 GUI of any Liqueur Desired. 
Procefed exactly as in the above 
recipe, using a gill of any liquor de- 
sired. 



Foamy Cream W^lth Rum. 

Cr6me en Mousse au Rhum. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 1 Gill of Rum. 
2 Ounces of Powdered Susar. 
Whip a pint of fresh sweet cream, 
adding a gill of rum and whipping 
till it reaches a- stiff froth. Then 
transfer to a china bowl and set on 
ice till ready to use. Have a des- 
sert dish ice cold when ready to 
serve and drop the cream into this 
spoon by spoon, with greatest caro 
so that it will not fall, and pile up 
high in a pretty pyramid shape and 
serve immediately. 

Whipped Cream With Klrsch, 

CrSme fe'ouettSe au Kirsoh. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 1 Gill of Klrsch 
Prepare the cream exactly as in 
above recipe, only, instead of the 
rum, substitute a gill of Kirsch. 

Whipped Cream With Maraschino. 

Cr6me Fouettfie au Maraschino. 
1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 1 Gill of Mara- 
schino, 

Prepare exactly as in the direction 
for CrSme en Mousse with Rum, sub- 
stituting a gill of Maraschino in- 
stead of the Rum. 

Whipped Cream W^Ith Cognac. 

Crfime FouettSe au Cognac. 

1 Pint of Cream. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Pow- 
dered Sugar. 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as in the directions for Whipped 
Cream with Rum. substituting in- 
stead a gill of good old Cognac. 
Serve in the same manner directed. 

Whipped Cream W^lth Cnracoa. 

CrSme Fouettfie au Curaooa. 

1 Pint of Cream. 2 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
1 Gill of Curacoa. 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as in the directions for Whipped 
Cream with Rum, adding, instead of 
the Rum, one gill of Curacoa. 

MOilpped Cream With Coflee, 

CrSme Fouettfie au CafS. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

2 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

3 Ounces of Extract of Coffee. 

Make three ounces of Crfiole CafS 
Noir. (See recipe.) Take three ta- 
blespoonfuls and add to the cream 
and sugar. Then proceed in exactly 
the same manner as in Whipped 
Cream with Vanilla. When ready 
to serve, heap the cream in the cen- 
ter of a very cold dish, using artistic 
taste, and serve immediately. 



263 



liteht Crcuin. 

CrSme LSsSre. 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Pint of Cream. 
4 or 5 Tablespoonfuls of Powderea White 
White Sugar. 
2 Fresh Egas. 
1 Tablespoon'ful of Orange Flower Water, 
To one pint of milk add tlie same 
quantity of cream, and four or five 
tablespoonfuls of powdered wliite 
sugar. Let it boil till reduced to 
one-half tlie quantity. Take off tlie 
stove, and whip in the whites of 
two fresh Creole eggs, and, when it 
ig as white as snow, add a half pint 
of whipped cream. Place upon the 
fire, and let it simmer gently, stir- 
ring continually.' Add a tablespoon- 
ful- of orange flower water, or other 
essence, fake off, let it cool, and 
serve when cold. 

Sweet Almond Cream. 

Crdme d^Amandes Douoes. 

6 Nice AlmoDte. 
1 Quart of Milk. The Whites of 2 Eggs. 
4 Ounces of Powdered White Sugar. 
Take six nice almonds and shell 
them. Then blanch them by throw- 
ing into boiling water, and letting 
them stand on the back of the stove 
for five minutes. Then throw into 
cold water, and take out the inner 
skins by rubbing them together with 
the hands. Whip in one quart of 
milk, the whites of two eggs, and 
four ounces of powdered sugar. Let 
the milk boil slowly on the fire till 
it is reduced one-half, and then add 
the almonds, which you will have 
chopped fine, and add a tablespoonful 
of Orange Flower Water, and let 
the mixture boil for three minutes 
, longer. Set it to cool. Then gar- 
nish with almonds that have been 
passed in Caramel or melted sugar 
and allowed to cool. 

Bnrat cream. 

Cr&me au Caramel. 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Pint of Cream. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. The Yolks of 
3 Eggs. 
1 Teaapoonful of Carainel. 
Boil one pint of milk and one pint 
of cream together. Add four ounces 
of powdered white sugar and the 
yolks^ of three eggs, nicely beaten 
together till very light. Add one 
teaspoonful of Caramel (see recipe), 
let it reduce one-half, strain, gar- 
nish nicely with any fruits, and 
serve cold. 

Creamed Coffee. 
CrSme au Caf§.. 

2 Ounces of Finely Ground Coffee. 
1 Pint of Milk. % Pint of Cream. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
The yolks of 3 EzBS. 
Boil two ounces of finely ground 



and powdered coffee in one pint of 
milk. Add one-half pint of cream 
as it begins to boil. Then add the 
yolks of three eggs, which have 
been well beaten with four ounces 
of powered sugar. Let it reduce one- 
half, take ore and strain till clear, 
let it cool and serve. 

White Coffee Cream. 

CrSnie Blanche au Caf§. 

2 Ounces of Coffee. 1 Pint ot Milk. 

^ Pint of Cream. 4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

The Yolks of 3 Ezgs. 

To make a "CrSme Blanche au 

Cafe," par oh two ounces of .coffee. 

and throw the grains, .while hot, 

into the boiling milk. Then proceed 

exactly as above. 

These are famous old-time Creole - 
reoir.es. 

Cliocolate Cream. 

CrSme au Chocolat. 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Pint of Crea'B). 

Yolks of 3 Eggs. 4 Ounces of Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Grated Chocolate. 

Boil one pint of milk and one pint 

of cream. Add, while boiling, threa 

yolks of eggs, l>eateiL well with four 

ounces of sugar. Stir constantly, 

and let it reduce one-half. Add two 

ounces of grated chocolate. Let it 

boil three or four minutes, take off. 

di'd serve when very cold. 

Macaroon Cieam. 

CrSme au Macarons. 

6 Macaroons. 1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water. 

% a White Praline. 

2 Ounces of Powdered White Sugar. 
The Yolks of 4 Fresh Esgs. 

Crumble six ma«arcons fa, maca- 
roon is a small cake, made of al- 
monds and sugar — see recipe), soak 
them in a pint of milk; add one ta- 
blespoonful of Orange Flower Water, 
in which you have put one-half of 
a mashed Praline (see recipe Pra- 
lines), and add two ounces of sugar, 
and the yolks of four fresh Creolo 
esrgs, well beaten till light. Set on 
the stove and let it simmer constant- 
ly till reduced almost one-half. Let 
it cool, and serve in the glass in 
which it was cooled. 

Chestnut Cream. 

CrSme de Marrons. 

2 Dozen Chestnuts. 

Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Pint ot Cream. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Shell the chestnuts and blanch 

them, and pound sufficient quantity 

to make two ounces reduced to 

floi".r. Or roast two- dozen chestnuts 

and peel them (which Is far bet- 



264 



ter), and pound tliem till very fine, 
and blend with a little milk till 
you have a thick paste. Add the 
yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and 
two tabljspoonfuls ot the best but- 
ter. Beat well, and add four ounces 
of powdered white sugar. Beat all 
this very light, and put into one 
pint of boiling milk, or half milk 
and half cream. Let it boil for 
about ten minutes, and then take off, 
strain, decorate in a glass dish, and 
serve cold. This is tlie true Creole 
CrSme de Marrons. 

Peanut Cr-^aiu. 

CrSme aux Pistaches. 

4 Ounces of Fresh Peanuts. 

The Zest of 1 Lemon. 1 Gill ot Water. 

hi Pint each of Milk and Cream. 

1% Ounces of Powdered White Sugar. 

1 Ounce ot Gelatine. 

Peel four ounces of fresh peanuts, 
and pound them into a flour. The 
Ciuantity must equal four ounces 
shelled. Add the grated zest of a 
lemon, and a little water, sufKciunt 
to make all into n. thick paste. Boil 
equal quantities of milk and cream 
to equal a pint and a half, and add 
an ounce and a half of white pow- 
dered sugar. Let it cool, and add a 
piece of gelatine, blended with one 
siioon of water. Mix wvU. and then 
strain through a siev.i^. Put the 
cream back on the fire to heat, and 
add the pe.anuts. Let nil come to 
a good boil, take off and set it to 
ccol in a cool place, and serve cola. 

Snow Cream. 

Cr6me a, la Neige. 

* 1 Pint of Fresh, Sweet Cream. 

8 Tablespoontuls of White Powdered Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Esss. 

1 Coffespoon of - Orangre™ Flower Water. 

Add to one pint of fine, fresh, 
sweet cream, eight tablespoonfuls of 
v/hite powdered sugar, the whitD.^ of 
tvo o'.'c-s, well beaten to a froth, 
one oolTi espoontul of Orange Fl wer 
M'ater, and whip all togethor stead- 
ily till the cream rises, taking it out 
as it does, and puttinjr in another 
bowl, as in "CrSme Pouettfie" (see 
^.ecipe), till all is drained. Place it 
In a little basket, lined with a fir.e 
^inen napkin, and serve as quickly as 
rr ssible. 

jj r^e cream may be varied bv col- 
i ng it with a little Siili n Powder 
' make It yellow, with carmine or 
jchineal to make It pink and rosy, 
jnly, when doing this, add a little 
aromatic essence, such as vanilla, 
lemon or pineapple. 

All the above ereams may be 
served with plain or whipped cream. 



Bavarian Creams. 

Bavarolse. 

1 Quart of Cream. 
V5 Pint of Gelatine, or hi Box. 
1 Gill of Cold Water. ^ Cup of Sugar. 
The Yolks of 4 Egea. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla or Bum. 
First of all, in making all Bavar- 
ian' icreams, follow implicitly the 
general directions given for making 
Cream Desserts, viz: Soaking t'ae 
gelatine, and, before whipping the 
cream, cool it for at least an hour 
en tfie Ice. Then put one pint of 
fresh cream or milk in a farina boil- 
er, and add the sugar, and bring it 
to a boil. As it boils, ijou-- in thj 
gelatine. Stir constantly till the 
latter is well dlissolved and blended, 
and set aside to cool. Beat the yolks 
of .the eggs to a cream, am s|ir them 
in the cold cream, blending and 
beating vigorously. Then add the 
.Vanilla or Rum, and set it away on 
the ice. When the boiled cream la 
quite cold, andl has begun to thicken, ' 
stir it till perfectly smooth, and 
then stir in the whipped cream with 
a few light strokes. Have ready the 
mold or freezer, well rinsed, and flU 
v,rith the cream. Set it away to cool 
and when quite firm turn it out, and 
serve with plain cieam or whipped 
ci-eam. 

Apricot Bavarian Cream. 

Crfime Bavarolse aux Abricots. 
1 Pint ot Fresh Apricots or 1 Pint Can. 

% Boi of Gelatine, or % Pint 
1 Pint of Cold Water. 1 Pint of Cream. 

Soak the gelatine and whip the 
cream. If the apricots are fresh, 
stew them and sweeten to taste. 
If canned, press them through a 
colander or sieve. Proceed to add the 
gelatine, which has been dissolved in 
a little boiling water, and then turn 
into a bowl. Stand upon crackefl' ice, 
and stir constantly till it begips to 
thicken, and then add the whipped 
cream stirring constantly till mixed 
well. Turn into a mold to harden 
and serve with whipped cream. 

Peach or Plum Bavarian Cream 
may be made in exactly the same 
manner as the above, using eight or 
nine fresh peaches, stoned, or a one- 
pint can of fresh ones. Use one pint 
of plums. 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream. 

Cr6me Bavaroise aux Fraises. 

1 Quart of Fresh, Stemmed Strawberrie* 

H Box of Gelatine, or J^ Pint. 

1 Pint ot Cream. 1 Cup ot Sugar. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 
Soak the gelatine, and prepare the 
whipped cream. Then mash the 
strawberries and pres them through 
a sieve. Add the white powdered su- 
gar. Melt the gelatine by standing 



£65 



over boiling water, and then add it 
to the strawberry juice. Mix thor- 
oughly. Then turn it into a tin pan 
or mold, set the basin on a pan of 
cracked ice, stir constantly till it 
begins to thicken, and then add the 
whipped cream, stiring it gradually 
till all is thoroughly mixed. Then 
pour into a mold and stand in an 
ice-cold place to harden. 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream. 

Cr&me Bavaroise aux Fraraboises. 

1 Pint of Raspl)erry Juice. 
1 Pint ol Cveam. y^ Cup ot Sugar 

14 Pint of Gelatine. 
P'roceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Strawberry Bavarian 
Cream. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. 

CrSme Bavaroise 3. I'Ananas. 

1 Pint of Gratea Pineapple. 1 Pint of Cream. 

1 Cup of Sugar. %Pint of Gelatine. 
% Cup of Cold Water. 

Cover the gelatine with the water, 
and let it soak for half an hour. Then 
stand it over boiling water, and let 
it melt. Grate the pineapple, and add 
the sugar, and let it simmer gently 
till reduced to a liquid. Then stir 
the gelatine into the pineapple, and 
dissolve thoroughly. Place it in a 
tin vessel, and stand over cracked 
ice, stiring constantly. When it be- 
gins to thicken, add the whipped 
cream, and set away to harden, after 
turning into a mold. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Lemon Bavarian Cream is made in 
the same maner. 

Coffee Bavarian Cream. 

Cr6me Bavaroise au CafS. 

1 Strong Cup of Cafe Nolr. (See Recipe). 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

% Pint ot Gelatine. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

% Cup of Water. 1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

The Yolks ot 4 Eggs. 

Soak the gelatine and whip the 
cream. After half an hour, pour 
it into the boiling coffee, and dis- 
solve thoroughly. Then add the su- 
gar, and stir thoroughly. Then add 
the milk. Let it boil up once, and 
remove from the fire, and stir in the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir 
steadily and carefully until all the 
ingredients have thoroughly blended. 
Then set it on the fire to thicken 
slightly, stirring all the time, but be 
careful not to let it boil, or the eggs 
will curdle. Then set aside to cool 
slightly; pour it into a basin, and set 
over cracked ice, and add the 
whipped cream as it thickens. Then 
turn into a mold, and set in a cool 
place to harden. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



Caramel Bavarian Cream. 

Cr^me Bavaroise au Caramel. 

14 Pint of Gelatine. 

1 Cup ot Sugar. V4 Cup of Water. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 1 Gill of Sherry 

Wine. 

2 Tablespoonfuls ot Caramel. 

Proceed exactly as above, using the 
same ingredients, except the eggs 
and cottee, substituting instead of the 
coffee, a gill of the best Sherry Wine 
and two tablespoonfuls of Caramel. 
(See recipe.) 

Clioeolate Bnvarian Cream. 

CrSme Bavaroise au Chocolat. 

2 Large Tablespoonfuls of Chocolate. 

1 Pint Milk. 1 Pint Cream, i^ Cup Sugar. 

% Pint ot Gelatine. 

Yolks of 4 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla or Rum. 

2 Ounces of Best French Chocolate. 

Prepare the gelatine and cream ac- 
cording to general directions. (See 
recipe.) Grate the chocolate and set 
the milk to boil. Then add the grat- 
ed chocolate, stirring slowly until 
all is dissolved. Take the saucepan 
from the fire, and add the sugar, mix- 
ing well, and the vanilla and rum. 
Turn it into a tin vessel to cool; set 
the vessel over cracked ice, and stir 
constantly till it begins to thicken. 
Then stir the whipped cream in care- 
fully, and pour the mixture into a 
mold, and set in a cool place to 
harden. . Serve with whipped cream. 

Orange Bavarian Cream. 

Cr&me Bavaroise a. I'Orange. 

6 Louisiana Oranges. The Yolks of 5 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Cream. 1 Pint of Milk. 
1 Cup of Sugar, y^ Bos; Gelatine, or y^ Pint. 

Whip the cream and prepare the 
gelatine according to general direc- 
tions. (See recipe Bavarian Cream.) 
Set the milk to boil, and when it be- 
gins to boil, add the gelatine. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs very light, 
and add the sugar, beating very light; 
strain the milk and gelatine, and 
add the sugar and yolks stirring 
constantly till well mixed. SetgQver 
the fire for two minutes, and Jpen 
set, it away to cool. When coldjjptir . 
in the orange juice, which you^.;Br'ill 
strain through a sieve. Set tHe*ba-^'' 
sin in a pan of cracked ice, an? stir 
until it begins to thicken, and' ' rhen -' 
stir in the whipped cream very 're- '^ 
fully, and proceed to turn inii a 
mold to harden. Always wet the 
mold first with cold water before 
turning in the cream. When cold, 
serve with whipped cream. 



266 



Velvet Crenm. 

Cr6rae Veloutfi. 
1 Pint of Cream. 1 Pint of Milk. 
6 Ounces of Suffar. 
Juice of 1 Lemon. 3 Tablespoonfuls Mills. 
% Pint of Gelatine. 
Soak the gelatine in the Tvater, 
and let it dissolve well. Set the 
milk to boil, and add the powdered 
sugar. Then dissolve the gelatine in 
It. Take off the fire, and add, as it 
cools, esence of vanilla or orange, 
using about two tablespoonfuls. Mix 
well. Then add the whipped cream, 
set over the flre one minute, pour in- 
to a mold to harden, and serve cold. 

Wine Cream. 

Crime au Vin. 
The Yolks of 8 Eggs. 
1 Cup Sugar. 
1 Quart of "Madeira or Sherry Wine. 
Beat the sugar and eggs well to- 
gether, and add gradually one quart 
of Madeira or Sherry Wine, flavored 
•with lemon or vanilla. Set the ves- 
sel in which they were mixed in 
another containing boiling water. Let 
the mixture simmer- until the cream 
Is perfectly formed, and then sgt to 
cool. Serve with whipped cream. > 



Spanish Cream. 

Crime k VEspagnole. 

1 Quart of Milk. The Tolks of 5 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Sugar. % Pint of Gelatine. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Soak the gelatine and whip one 
pint of cream. Set the milk to boil, 
and add the gelatine, which you will 
have dissolved in two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk. Have the eggs and 
sugar beaten very light, and, as the 
milk boils up, add the sugar and 
eggs, but do not let them boil, or 
the eggs will curdle. Stir well, and 
turn the gelatine, which you will 
have dissolved well, into the milk. 
Then remove from the fire and strain, 
and add the essence of vanilla. Have 
the niold ready, clean and well rinsed 
and turn the cream into it. Set it 
on ice to harden, and. when ready, 
to serve, make a cream by whipping 
the whites of the eggs into the cream 
which has been whipped with pow- 
dered sugar. Turn the cream into a 
dish, heap this delicious meringue 
cream over it. and serve very cold. 

Italian cream Is made in exactly 
the same manner as above, only a 
wineglas^ful of Brandy is added. 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Sauces de Poudings. 



Apple Sauce. 

Sauce aux Pommes. 
6 Apples. 1 Pint of Coia Water. 
^ of a Lemon, 
% Pound of Powdered White Sugar. 
A Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 
1 Gill of Brandy. 
Peel and quarter and seed the 
apples, and put them into a sauce- 
pan, with a pint of cold water and 
a quarter of a lemon. Let them boil 
for half an hour. Then press the 
cooked apples through a sieve into 
a bowl, and add the powdered sugar 
and the cinnamon and brandy. Set 
back on the stove and let the juice 
boil for five minutes, and serve with 
apple puddings, baked apples, dump- 
lings, etc. 

Apricot Snnce. 

Sauce d'Abricots. 

4 Ounces of Apricot Marmalade. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 GUI of Water. 1 Gill of Brandy. 

Take four ounces of Apricot 

Marmalade (see recipe) and put into 



a saucepan; add the butter and wa- 
ter, and set on a brisk fire; stir con- 
stantly until it comes to a boil, and 
then add a gill of good brandy. Let 
the mixture cook for two minutes 
more, and serve with baked apple^ 
dumplings, boiled dumplings, or ap- 
ple pudding, as desired. 

Brandy Sauce. 

Sauce au Cognac. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Cup of Powdered Sugar. Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Gill of Brandy. 

1 Gill of Boiling Water. 

Beat the butter and sugar together 
to a cream, and add the sugar, beat- 
ing until light and very white; add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, putting in one at a time; 
whip these well together, and add 
the boiling water and the brandy. 
Set over the fire in a bain-marie 
(boiling water) and stir till creamy 
and no longer. Serve either hot or 
cold. Do not let it boil. This sauce 



267 



Is excellent with Blackberry Roll, 
Bread Puddings, etc. 

When a loaf of stale 'Bread Is left 
over, it may be wet and squeezed; 
add the yolks of three eggs, well 
beaten, and a pint of seeded rais- 
ins; mix well, and set to bake in 
the oven. Serve with tlie sauce 
above. This makes a very excellent 
and economical pudding. 

Hard Brandy Sauce. 

Sauce Dure au Cognac. 

1 Cup of Powdered Sugar. ^ Cup of Butter. 

1 Wlneglassful of Brandy. 

14 Teaspoonfui of Ground Cinnamon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream; add the brandy and tlie pow- 
dered cinnamon and serve cold. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Sauce au Caramel. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Tablespoonfnl of Sherry. 

2 Ground Cloves. 1 Stick of Cinnamon. 

Grated Zest of li Lemon. 

Put the sugar in a saucepan and 
let it melt and brown to a golden 
yellow; add the water and the wine, 
or essence and spices, etc., and set 
to cool after it has boiled three min- 
utes. 

Cliaufausen Sauce. 

Sauce Chaufausen. 

1 Pint of Chaufausen Wine. 

1 Pint of Cold Water. 

3 TaWespoonfuls of Powdered White Sugar. 

6 Cloves. The Zest of 1 Lemon. 
1 Inch of Cinnamon. 1 Ounce of Cornstarch. 

•Put the sugar, cinnamon, zest of 
lemon, cloves and water into a sauce- 
pan and set on a good fire and let 
them come to a boil, which will be 
in about five minutes. Then add tlie 
cornstarch diluted in a tablespoon- 
fnl of cold water and stir it briskly 
into the water. After three minutes 
of stirring add one pint of Chau- 
fausen wine, let it cook for two 
minutes longer and then take off the 
fire, drain through a sieve and serve 
with puddings, especially Apple Pud- 
ding. 

Cream Sauce. 

Sauce a la CrSme. 
1 Pint of Sweet, Freslf Cream. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered Sugar. 

1 Nutmeg, Grated. 
1 Tea'apoonful of Vanilla, or Sherry or Ma- 
deira. 

Add the sugar essence or wine to 
the cream; then stir constantly till 
thoroughly dissolved. Beat vigorous- 
ly, and then add the nutmeg and set 
to cool. Serve with stewed apples 
and other stewed fruits, or fruit 
puddings. 



Cream of Butter Sauce. 

Sauce a. la CrSme de Beurre. 

% Cup of Butter. 
% Cup of Powdered White Sugar. 
i Tablespoonfnls of Milk or Cream. 
The Juice and Bind of a Lemon. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 
thick cream, and add the milk or 
cream gradually. Then place the 
mixture in a bowl and stand in a 
small tin of boiling water (bain- 
marie) and stir slowly till the sauce 
is very creamy, but do not allow it to 
simmer or boil. It will take just 
three or four minutes. As the thick 
cream forms, take from the fire, 
add the lemon and serve with any 
pudding. 

Cream of Vanilla Sauce. 

Sauce a, la Cr6me de Vanille. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered White Sugar. 

The Yolks of 3 Eigs. 

1 Tablespoonfnl of Vanilla Essence. 

% Gill of Maraschino or Good Cognac. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and 

the sugar well together, and add the 

vanilla essence. Beat thoroughly. 

Boil the milk and add the beaten egg 

to the milk as it comes to a boil. 

Stir briskly till it comes to a boil 

once more. Then take from the fire 

and add the maraschino or brandy 

according to taste. 

Custnrdi Sauce, 

Sauce Duchesse. 

1 Pint of Milk, 

% Cup of Powdered Sugar. 3 Egga. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Set the milk to boil. Beat the 
eggs and sugar to a thick cream 
and very light, and then stir them in- 
to the boiling milk. Stir over the 
lire till the sauce begins to thicken, 
and no longer. If you stir too long 
the sauce will curdle. Take it from 
the fire and add the Vanilla ana 
serve cold. 

Foamins Sai:ce, 

Sauce a la Neige. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Gill of Boiling Water. 

1 Glass of Sherry Wine or a Tablespoonful of 

Vanilla. . 

Beat the- whites of the eggs to a 
stiff frpth; melt the sugar in the 
boiling water, and then add a wine- 
glass of Sherry. Stir in the frothy 
whites, and set to cool. 

Fruit Sauce. 

Sauce aux Fruits. 

4 Peaches, Apples, Apricots or Pears. 

1 Cup Sugar. 'A Cup Water. 1 Pint of Cream. 

Whites of 2 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Brandy. 
Pare the fruit; take out the stones 

or core; slice and put into a sauce- 



268 



pan with the water and sugar, and- 
let it stew gently until very tender. 
Then press through a colander or 
sieve. Set the cream to boil, and 
then beat it into the fruit thorough- 
ly. Take off the fire, add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
set to cool, and serve with fruit 
puddings made of the same fruits. 

Golden Snuce, 

Sauce d'Or. 

The Tolks of 2 Eggs. Juice of 1 Lemon. 
1 Cup of Sugar. 
1 Gill of Brandy or Sherry. 
Beat the eggs and sugar until 
creamy. Set the saucepan in a ket- 
tle of boiling water over the Are: 
add the eggs that have been beaten 
well with the brandy or sherry; stir 
until the sauce becomes a tnick 
cream; then take from the flre, add 
the juice of a lemon and serve very 
hot. 

Hard Sauce. 

Sauce a, la Cr&me Dure. 

Vi Cup of Butter. 
1 Cup of Powdered White Sugar. 
The Whites of 2 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream and gradually add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
add the flavoring and heap on a 
small butter dish, sprinkle with grat- 
ed nutmeg and serve cold. 

Hard Sauce A la Creole. 

Sauce Creole. 
% Cup of Butter. 1 Cup of Powdered Sugar. 
Beat the sugar and butter to a 
rich cream, add a teaspoonful of va- 
nilla, or a tablespoonful of good 
brandy, and serve cold. This Is a 
very excellent sauce for baked dump- 
lings, etc. 

Kirsch Sauce. 

Sauce au Kirsch. 
% Gill of Kirseh. 
I Pint of Cold Water. % Pound of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 
Mix the sugar and water in a 
saucepan and set on the stove on a 
brisk flre; let it come to a boil; then 
add a tablespoonful of cornstarch 
which has been diluted in a table- 
spoonful of water. Stir well for 
three minutes, and then take from 
the fire and add immediately a half 
gill of Kirsch. Mix well, strain 
through a sieve and serve with pud- 
dings. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Sauce au Citron. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Pint of Boiling Water. ^ Cup of Sugar. 

1 Egg. 

The Juice and Grated Zest of a Lemon. 



Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream; add the well-beaten egg, and 
then add the cornstarch, which you 
will have dissolved in a teaspoonful 
of water. When well-blended pour 
in slowly the boiling water, stirring 
all the time, and set over the fire 
till it thickens; stir about three 
minutes. Take from the flre and add 
the juice and rind of a, grated lemon. 
This sauce is much improved by 
adding tTie white of an egg beaten 
to a stiff froth, after you have taken 
it from the fire. 

Madeira Sauce. 

Sauce au Vin de MadSre. 

2 Cups of Sugar. ^ Grated Nutmeg. 

Vi Cup of Butter, y^ Cup of Boiling Water. 

2 Wineglasses of Madeira, 

Beat the butter and the sugar to 
a cream, using powdered sugar, and 
then add one cup of boiling water. 
Stir in gradually two wineglasses of 
good Madeira wine or Sherry, and 
add one teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg. Put into a double boiler and 
stir until the sauce is hot, but do 
not let it boil. Serve, either hot or 
cold, with any pudding. 

Madeira Sabayon Sauce. 

^a,uce Sabayon au MadSre. 

i The Yolks of 4 Elggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered White fiugfl'. 
2 Gills of Madeira Wine. 
The Zest of Half a Lemon. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 

sugar well together, and when they 

come to a rich cream set on the 

stove an'd whip well for two min- 

i u-ts's'. Then add the zest of a lemon 

: o£ one tablespoonful of a lemon, or 

! one tablespoonful of lemon essence, 

and drop in gradually the Madeira 

wine. Stir without ceasing for two 

minutes more, and then serve very 

hot with Fruit, Bread Puddings, etc. 

Orange Sauce, 

Sauce d'Orange. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Bufier. 

14 Cu3 of Water. 

The Juice and Grated Zest of 2 Oranges, 

2 Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful Grated Nutmeg. 

Beat the sugar, butter and yolks of 
the eggs to a cream. Then add the 
water and the juice and grated zest 
of two oranges. Set to boll In a 
double boiler; add, if desired, when 
it begins to simmer well, one table- 
spoonful of wine; take off the flre 
and add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a froth. Serve either hot 
or cold. If served cold, add the 
whites of the eggs at the moment of 
serving, as also the grated nutmeg. 
Serve with Orange Pudding, Orange 
Roly-Poly, etc. 



269 



Puncli Saace. 

Sauce au Ponche. 

1 Gill of Good Cosnac or Rum. 
5 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

The Juice of 3 Oranges. 

The Zest of Half a Lemon. 

The Grated Rind of Half an Orange. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

Put the rum or brandy, the sugar, 
orange rind, lemon zest and vanilla 
essence into a saucepan and set on 
the stove. As soon as the ingred- 
ients light into a flame, cover tightly 
with a lid and let all infuse together 
for two minutes. Then take from 
the Are and add the juice of three 
Louisiana oranges. Serve very hot 
j(s a pudding sauce. 

Rum Sance. 

Sauce au Rhura. 
1 Gill of Jamaica Rum. 
6 Ounces of Granulated Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Caramel. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 
1 Pint of Water. The Zest of 1 Lemon. 

Put the sugar and caramel (see 
recipe) and lemon zest in a sauce- 
pan, and when it begins to boil 
add a tablespoonful of cornstarch 
diluted in four tablespooriftfls of 
cold water. Let all cook for three 
minutes, and then remove frc*i the 
fire, and add the rum. Mix well, 
then strain through a sieve itttt) a 
sauce bowl and serve hot with iffxiit 
puddings especially. 

Silvery Sauc6. 

Sauce Argentge. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. .c. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanflla or Lemon, .j,, 

2 Cups of Milk. 1 Tablespoonful of Brandy. 
Beat the sugar and the butter to A 

cream. Set the milk to boil, and as"' 
it begins to simmer, add the sugar 
and butter. Let it simmer gently for 
a few minutes, and then take from 
the fire and add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Add 
the essence, stirring tiU thoroughly 
mixed. Add the brandy and serve, 
either hot or cold, with any berry 
pudding. 

Strawberry Sance. 

Sa\ice aux Fraises. 

1 Cup of Creftm. The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Sugar. % Cup of Butter. 

1 Cup of fresh Mashed Strawberries. 

Mash the strawberries, and press 
them through a sieve. Beat the but- 
ter and sugar to a cream; whip the 
cream and beat in the strawberries; 



then add the betry juice and mix 
thoroughly. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of sherry, if desired, or brandy, and 
serve with strawberry pudding, 
strawberry shortcake, or strawberry 
pie. It may also be served cold with 
a plain bread pudding. Blackberry 
Sauce may be made and served in 
the same way. Add a gill of Brandy 
to the Blackberry Sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

Sauce a, I'Essence de Vanille. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 4 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Milk. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 

Set the milk to boil, and beat the 
yolks of the eggs and sugar very 
light: add them to the boiling milk; 
stir for two minutes over the fire. 
Take off and add the "Vanilla and the 
whites of the eggs i^eaten to a froth; 
mix thoroughly, and serve e ther hot 
or cold. 

Velvet Saucevi 

Sauce Veloutee. 
114 Cups of Powdered Sugar. % Cup Butter, 
A Tablespoonful of Cornstarch, 
1 Gill of Bollins Water. 
1 Gill of White Wine or Maraschino. 
Beat the - butter and sugar to a 
cream, and blend the cornstarch with 
a little cold water to form a paste. 
Boil the gill of water and add the 
cornstarch, stirring constantly as it 
thickens; continue stirring till trans- 
parent. Then add the butter and su- 
gar, stirring well till perfectly blend- 
ed, being careful to have the ves- 
" sel containing the sauce in a bain- 
marie, or another vessel of boiling 
water. Add a gill of White Wine or 
Maraschino, and the Juice of a lemon 
or orange, or vanilla extract, accord- 
ing to taste. Serve hot with any 
pudding. 

White Wine Sauce. 



Sauce au Vin Blanc. 

W Cup of Butter. 2% Cups Powdered Sugar. 

^ Cud of Boiling Water. 

2 Wineglasses of White Wine. 

1 Tablespoonful Grated Nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and add the boiling water. 
Set the vessel containing the mix- 
ture into a bain-marie or saucepan 
of boiling water, and stir in grad- 
ually the white wine and the grated 
nutmeg. Let the sauce get hot, but 
do not let it boil. When it forms a 
thick cream take off, and serve either 
hot or cold. Stir all the time it is 
on the fire. Serve with any pudding. 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 



CAKBS. 



Des Gateaux. 



The Picayune nas now come to one 
of the most interesting sections of 
its Cook Book — certainly a favorite 
section, as far as the Creole girls 
are concerned. There is scarcely a 
girl who can make a good cake who 
does not pride herself upon this ac- 
complishment, and "Ma Belle Crfiole" 
is no exception to this rule. She may 
not be able to make a "Ratatouille 
a, la Cr&ole," a "Bisque d':fiorevisses," 
or turn a pigeon "a. la Crapaudine," 
but if she knows how to make a 
"Gateau a I'Archange," or a "Gateau 
d'Amandes," it will not be long be- 
fore she w^ill treat you to one of 
these dainty Creole cakes, which her 
"maman" will be sure to tell you 
"Marguerite has made all by her- 
self." 

The mixing and baking of cakes 
has always been held a very import- 
ant branch of cookery. The baking 
is the most difficult part, but good 
cake making depends quite as much 
upon the quality and quantity of the 
ingredients used, and the manner of 
putting them together. Attention to 
the most minute detail in mixing 
is required if you seek success. Care- 
less mixing will spoil the most per- 
fect recipe. The greatest accuracy 
must be followed in proportioning 
out the ingredients, and using just 
so much, and no more. Often a ta- 
blespoonful of flour above the 
amount specified will cause the cake 
to crack open. The cream, the but- 
ter, the eggs, must be of the best 
quality. A stale egg will spoil the 
best cake, as also rancid butter. No 
cake should be flavored w^ith a poor, 
cheap extract. Care must be exer- 
cised in the choice of all the mate- 
rials, care in the exact weight speci- 
fied, care in the proper heat of the 
oven. The following 

General Directions tor Making Cakes 

should be read with care and implic- 
itly followed: 

A large earthen bowl is the best 
for mixing and beating the cakes and 
for beating butter and sugar to a 
cream, as is required in making rich 
cakes, such as pound cakes, etc. 

The hand is the best instrument for 
working the cake, although a wood- 
en spoon will be best for stirring 
in the ingredients. The spoon may 
be used also for beating, if you do 



not know how to use the hand dex- 
terously. 

Measure all Ingredients carefully 
before beginning to make the cake, 
and have all at hand, within reach. 

The whites and the yolks of the 
eggs must always be beaten separ- 
ately for fancy cakes. 

Use the white pulverized sugar 
in preference to the white granulat- 
ed for all cakes, except gingerbreads, 
as it makes a lighter cake. Sift the 
flour as often as the recipes specify 
and measure it again after .sifting. 

If you use cream of tartar in- 
stead of baking powder, sift the 
cream of tartar into the flour, and 
dissolve the soda that must accom- 
pany its use In a tablespoonful of 
boiling water, and always add it 
to the cake before you add the whites 
of the eggs. 

One-half teaspoonful of soda and 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
may be used instead of one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder where the re- 
cipe calls for the latter. 

Raisins should always be picked 
over and divested of the stems and 
seeded before using. 

In making fruit cake, prepare the 
fruit the day before. 

Currants should be picked over, 
washed and dried before using. 

Always use the butter thoroughly 
and drain of water before making 
the cake, and be sure that it is fresh, 
sweet, and of the very best quality. 

Use none but white pulverized su- 
gar, except in making gingerbread or 
gingercake. 

Sift your flour before weighing. All 
the following recipes are for sifted 
flour. 

Be perfectly accurate in weighing 
and measuring. 

If you use cupS for measurements 
let them be of the same size for all 
ingredients for the same cake. 

Sour milk will make & spongy cake 
and sweet milk will make a cake 
with a close grain. 

Never mix' sweet and sour milk In 
the same cake. Failure will .be the 
result. 

Let the eggs be sound and fresh, 
and beat thoroughly till light, if you 
wish your cake to succeed. Do not 
rely entirely on the baking powder 
or the soda for the rising. The re- 



271 



suit of such flimsy methods will be 
apparent in the cake. 

Rules tor Mixing Ingredlenta. 

Observe implicitly the following 
rules: 

Always beat the yolks and the 
whites separately for large cakes. 
Beat the yolks in an earthen dish till 
they begin to froth and thicken. 
Beat the whites to a froth so stiff 
that you can cut through it with a 
knife. Beat in a shallow dish with 
an egg beater or silver fork, pref- 
erably the egg beater. 

Beat or stir the butter and sugar 
to a cream, rubbing both together 
steadily until they form a perfect 
cream. Then, and not till then, mix 
the yolks with the butter and sugar. 
Beat these together till very light. 
Then add the milk, and mix thor- 
oughly. Sift the baking pow^der w^ith 
the flour, and add a little at a time, 
stirring in ■well, till all Is used up. 
Then add the whites of the eggs, 
beating them in thoroughly, and last- 
ly, add the flavoring extract. 

Follow, without the least varia- 
tion, the exact order given above in 
the mixture of ingredients. "When 
the cake is ready to bake, line the 
pan with a piece of buttered paper. 
This will prevent the cake from 
scorching. Then proceed to bake im- 
mediately, following the subjoined 
explicit 

Directions for Baking Cake. 

Have your oven ready. This is 
most important. The oven should 
be ready to bake the cake immedi- 
ately after it is well mixed, as stand- 
ing makes cake batter heavy. 

Test the temperature of the oven 
before putting the cake within. If 
you can hold your hand in the hot- 
test part for a quarter of an hour 
the temperature will be correct. 

If you have a Fahrenheit thermom- 
eter, let it be your guide as to the 
baking heat of the oven — 450 degrees 
is the proper heat for drop cakes, 
rolls, buns, tea cakes, muffins, puff 
paste, etc. If you have not a ther- 
mometer another good test is to 
throw a little cornmeal or flour in 
the center of the oven. If the flour 
smokes before you can count ten, the 
oven is too hot. If it smokes at 
ten, the-oven has the proper heat for 
the above cakes. 

As soon as these are baked the 
heat will be reduced to 400 degrees 
Fahrenheit, and then the oven is 
ready to bake cream puffs, sugar 
cakes, queen cakes, jumbles, lady 
fingers, jelly rolls, etc. When these 
cakes are baked the heat will be re- 
duced to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, and 
the oven will be just at the proper 
temperature to bake wine cakes, cup 
cakes, ginger snaps, gingerbread, 
spice cakes, Madeira cakes, etc. 



Moderate the temperature slightly, 
and the oven will be ready for the 
baking of large cakes, such as pound. 
citron, marble, white, raisin, cur- ' 
rant, almond, macaroons, etc. And, 
after all these cakes are baked, you 
will have the proper temperature 
for wedding cake, meringue, aniseed 
cakes, etc. 

Thermometers are so cheap that if 
will pay the young housekeeper to 
have one in the house, rather than 
spoil ingredients by not having the 
oven at the right baking heat. 

It will be seen from the above that 
cakes made with butter will re- 
quire a moderate oven; cakes with- 
out butter will require a quick oven. 
In baking small cakes or cookies 
have a moderately quick oven. 

Bake molasses cakes in a moder- 
ately quick oven, and watch care- 
fully, as they burn easily. 

A large cake will reauire more 
time to bake than a loaf of bread 
of the same size. From an hour and 
a half to two hours will be sufficient 
for a pound cake. 

To ascertain if the cake is done, 
take a stiff broom straw and run it 
into the center of the cake. When 
it comes out, feel with your fingers. 
If it is clean and dry, the cake is 
done. If otherwise, the cake re- 
quires a little more baking. Never 
introduce the straw until you think 
that the cake is done. 

A thick paper (brown paper is 
best) spread over the top of the cake 
after it begins to bake will pre- 
vent it from browning too much. 
If it begins to brown as soon as 
you put it in the oven, it is an in- 
dication that the oven is too hot. 
Cover the cake with paper, and cool 
the oven by lifting the lid of the 
stove. But this is always risky. 
Have the oven of the right temper- 
ature. 

Never set anything else to cook 
in the oven while you are baking a 
cake. The cake will surely fall. 

Never move a cake when you have 
once set it in the oven till the center 
is perfectly firm and set. If you do, 
it will fall. If one side seems to be 
browning faster than the other, have 
recourse to the brown paper on top. 
When you set the cake in the oven 
shut the door very gently, and be 
careful not to jar the cake, or it 
will be heavy. Do not open the door 
for about ten minutes, and then as 
little as possible, and very gently. 
If the cake is browning too quickly, 
cover with a layer of thick paper. 
Watch the cake while baking; but 
never leave the oven door open. 
When. necessary to look at the cake, 
gently do It as quickly as possible, 
and then shut the door carefully, 
without jarring the cake. 



272 



A cake should rise to its full 
height before the crust begins to 
form. If it hardens too fast, have 
recourse immediately to covering 
with paper. 

Keep the oven at a steady, regular 
heat, the same at the top as at the 
bottom. 

Never take the cake out of the over 
until you are sure it is done. The 
broom splint, clean and dry, run 
through the center, is the infallible 
test. 

Let the cake cool in the pan in 
which it was baked, as it is apt to 
become heavy if turned out while 
hot. Never handle the cake while hot. 

If the cake is streaky it shows that 
It was not mixed properly, or that 
the baking was rapid and unequal, 
or that the oven's temperature sud- 
denly decreased before the cake was 
done. 

When the cake is cool, if you wish 
to ice, it, proceed as follows: 

HoTT to Ice Cakes. 

Take one pound of pulverized su- 
gar and the whites of two eggs. Have 
the eggs set in the refrigerator for 
about an hour before using. Beat 
the eggs and the sugar and a tea- 
spoonful of rose or orange flower 
water or vanilla essence together till 
thei eggs are very light. In commenc- 
ing to beat do not beat the whites 
separately. Break them into a cold, 
shallow dish, and throw in a hand- 
ful of sugar at a time, beating mean- 
while, and adding at short .intervals, 
till you have used up all the sugar. 
Or beat the whites and sugar and 
essence together. When the mix- 
ture is stiff and smooth, begin to 
lay a thin coating of the ice over the 
cake, using a knife to spread it, and 
occasionally dipping the knife into 
the lemon juice, which will enable 
you to smooth it nicely. When it is 
covered with this first coat, set in a 
warm place to harden — or in a mod- 
erate oven, where you may let it re- 
main about four minutes, or in the 
sunshine where there is no dust 
around. When it is hardened it will 
be ready for the next coat. 'Proceed 
as above. This coat will be much 
smoother and whiter than the first. 
Let the thickness of the icing al- 
ways be such that it will run very 
slow. If the icing is well prepared 
this will give a smooth, glossy sur- 
face. Instead of the essence, the 
juice of a lemon (one tablespoonful) 
may be added to the icing. If you 
wish to use ornaments, secure a 
piping tube, and place the ornaments 
around the cake while moist, running 
a plain tube around the edge of the 
cake, and then coverKig the c£li(e 
with a thin icing level with the 
rim. Let it run smooth, and dry in 
the sun or In the oven. The sun is 



always best, if you ari rot in a 
very great hurry. 

The above recipe Is for plain icing 
It may be varied according to tastu 
by using pineapple, strawberry, or 
other flavoring. In using straw- 
berry icing, add a few drops of coch- 
ineal to color. For further partic- 
ulars as to different icings for cakes, 
see special section on "Icings and 
Frostings for Cakes." 

The Picayune Cake. 

Gateau Picayon. 

For upwards of seventy years the 
Picayune has led the vanguard of 
progress in New Orleans. In all pub- 
lic, philanthropic, charitable and edu- 
cational enterprises, and whatever 
has tended towards the public weal, 
the Picayune, old in years, but with 
its youth ever renewed, has always 
brought the rtiovement to a trium- 
phant issue. This gave rise to a 
popular saying in New Orleans that 
the "Picayune always takes the 
cake." Acting upon this fact, a New 
Orleans lady originated a cake, and 
named it, in compliment to this jour- 
nal, "The Picayune Cake." It is 
made as follows: 

1 Cup of Finely^Sifted Flour. 

1 Cup . of Fine White Sugar. Whites of » 

Egss. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder, 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

1 Teaspoonful Lemon. 

Beat the whites of the - eggs to a 
stiff froth, after which very little 
beating will be required. Add slow- 
ly a heaping cupful of fine white su- 
gar, and one cup of flour, both of 
which have been sifted four times 
to reach this measurement. Then 
add one teaspoonful each of vanilla 
and lemon extract, and two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, just before 
putting into the oven. Bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty-five min- 
utes, and this cake, when eaten, 
will give the same satisfaction that 
the Picayune gives to Its readers, as 
they devour its contents daily, and 
never get tired, but call for "more." 

Almond Cake, 

Gateau d'Amandes. 

12 Eggs. 1 Pound of Sifted Loaf Sugar. 

94 Pound of Sifted Flour. 

6 Ounces Sweet Almonds. Zest of 2 Citrons, 

Zest of 1 Orange. 14 Teaspoonful Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the- 
whites separately, beating the latter 
to a stiff froth. Blanch the almonds, 
and peel them and pound them to a. 
fine flour in a mortar. Gi:ate the 
zest of the oranges and lemons or 
citrons, and mix well. Beat the su- 
gar and the yolks of the eggs to a 
cream, and gradually add one- half of 



273 



the flour, beating well. Then add 
the almonds, mixing thoroughly, and, 
after beating vigorously, add one- 
half of the whites of the eggs Beat 
well, add the remainder of the flour, 
and then add the remainder of the 
eggs Finally add the orange flower 
water, and mix lightly. Butter a pa- 
per, and put in the cake pan, and 
pour in the m.ixture, and bake for 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

Angel Cake. 

Gateau d'Ange. 

1% Cups of Granulated Sugar, Sifted. 

1 Cup Sifted Plour. The Whites of 11 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar. 
1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. Vi Teaspoonful Salt. 

Sift the flour four times, and then 
put in the cream of tartar, mix well, 
and sift a fifth time. Sift the su- 
gar four times. Have the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth, 
so stiff thait they may be cut with a 
fcnife clearly. Then add the flour by 
degrees, beating all the time. Ijast- 
ly, add the flavoring extract. Do not 
butter 'the pan for this cake, but 
turn the mixture quickly into an un- 
gre'ased Turk's head pan (a pan with 
a tube in the middle), and bake for 
three-quarters of an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. Test with a broom wisp. 
When done, turn the cake upside 
down, resting on the tube of the 
pan, and let it cool. The cake will 
fall out of the pan. 

Ansel's Pood. 

Biscuit d'Ange. 

1% Cups of Sifted, Powdered White Sugar. 

1 Cup Sifted Flour. Whites of 11 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Balslng Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. Vi Teaspoonful Salt. 
Put the baking powder and the 
salt (or use cream of tartar instead 
of baking powder) into the flour, and 
sift it seven times. If you use 
cream of tartar, add it in the last 
sifting. Sift the sugar seven times. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
very stiff froth, and add gradually 
the sugar, mixing very carefully. 
Then add 'the flour, gradually beat- 
iing all the while, and laistly 'add the 
flavoring extract. Pour the mixture 
into a Turk''S head baking pan (un- 
greased), and bake for forty-flve 
minutes in a moderate oven. Test 
■with the broom wisp. When done, 
turn the cake upside down, resting 
the pan on the tube till the cake falls 
' off. 

Arclinngel Cake. 

Gateau d'Arohange ou Gateau de 
I'Ange Gabriel. 

1 Cnp of Butter. 2 Cups of Sifted Flour. 

1 Cup of White Pulverized Sugar. 

The Whites of 8 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 

stiff froth. Add tihe baking powder 



to the flour, and sift it three times. 
Sift the sugar three times. Beat the 
butter, whicli has been well-washed, 
to a cream with the sugar. Then 
gradually add the flour, beating all 
tihe while, 'and the flavoring extract. 
Lastly, 'add the whites, which must 
be very stiff. 'Mix all thoroughly, 
and 'bake for about half an hour in 
a moderately quick oven. Use a 
Turk's head tin. (Follow directions 
for baking cake.) 

Banann Meringue 'Cake. 

Gateau de Bananes M§ringu#s. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

Vi Pound (Flour. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

3 Bananas. 1 Cup of Cream 'Sauce. 

Whites of 3 Eggs. 

Make a Sponge Cake; slice in two 
across the cake; slice bananas length- 
wise very nicely 'and lay on the bot- 
tom layer of cake; sprinkle with a 
little powdered sugar, and then 
spread over a. little Cream Sauce, 
which you will liave made to tihe 
consistency of Cream Puff filling. 
Put over this the second layer .of 
oake, 'and then repe-at the process 
■ of spreading the ben'anas and cream 
on the layer. Make a 'meringue with 
the whites of three eggs 'and three 
tablespoonfuls of 'sugar, and spread 
this over the whole. Set in a quick 
oven 'and bake 'to a delicate brown, 
ojnd serve, either hot or cold, with a 
Wine Sauce, preferably Sauce au Vin 
de M'adere. (See recipe.) 

Black Cake. 

'Gateau Noir. 

1 Pound of Brown Sugar. 1 Pound of Butter, 

1 Pound of Flour. 2 Pounds Currants. 

2 Pounds of Seeded Kaisins. 

% Pound of Citron, Cut very Thin. 

% Pound of Chipped Figs. 

1 Glass of Jelly. 1 Wineglass of Brandy. 

1 Pound Almonds, Blanched' and Chopped, 

12 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of 'Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoonful Cloves. 2 Teaspoonfuls 'Nutmeg. 

Wash and cleanse the currants 
thorougihly. Seed the i^aisins. Beat 
the butter and sugar 'to a cream. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs, well 
beaten. Add one-half of the fiour 
and the spices. Mix all the fruit in 
the remiaining flour, having first 
sliced the citron very thin, 'and add 
to the mixture. Then 'add the jelly, 
which should be homemade and of 
the best quality. Otherwise, add one 
cup of the best Louisiana molasses. 
Mix thoroughly. Add the whites of 
the eggs and the brandy last. Divide 
irnto two tins, which must be lined 
with well-greased piaper. Bake for 
four hours in a 'Slow oven. Test with 
the broom wisp. If not done through 
cook longer, watoMng carefully, Eind 
using the test till 'the straw is dri^. 



274 



Buttermilk Cake. 

Gateau au Babeurre. 

2 Cups of Buttermilk. 3 Cups of Sugar. 

B Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 4 Eggs. 

% jTeasnooQful of Soda. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
then add the sugar, which has been 
sifted fine. Beat to a cream. Add 
the yolks of the eggs, and continue 
beating till very light. Mash the 
soda in the buttermilk, dissolving 
thoroughly, first in a half cupful, 
and then mixing well with the re- 
mainder of the milk. Add this to the 
eggs and butter. Then gradually 
add the sifted flour, and beat till 
very smooth. Lastly add the whites 
of. the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake for forty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

Bride's Cake. 

Gateau de MariS. 
3 Cups of White Pulverized Sugar. 
1 Cup of Butter. 4 Cups of Sifted Flour. 
^ Cup of Cornstarch. 
The Whites of 12 Bags. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
1 Cup of Sweet Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful ot Extract of Lemon. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth. Sift the flour and baking 
powder. Siff the sugar. Beat the 
butter and sugar tp a cream. Beat 
till very light. Mix the cornstarch 
with the sweet milk and add to the 
sugar and butter, beating well. Then 
add gradually the flour, mixing thor- 
oughly, and beating light. Add the 
extract of lemon, and finally the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake one hour in a moderate 
oven, using the broom wisp test. If 
not done, bake a little longer. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. 

Gateau au Chooolat. 

1 'Cup of Sugar. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1% Cups ot Sifted Flour. 

% Cup of Milk. Yolks of 8 EgRS. ' 

White of 1 Bgg. 

Vi Cake of Grated Chocolate. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Dissolve the chocolate in the cup of 
milk, and boil till thick. Beat the 
butter to a cream, and gradually add 
the sugar, beating constantly. Then 
add the yolks of the eggs, and beat 
till very light. Sift the flour, and 
add the baking powder, and sift 
again. Then add the flour gradually 
to the mixture, beating all the while. 
Now add the chocolate, and beat very 
vigorously. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the 
mixture. Then add the essence, beat- 
ing lightly again, and turn into a 
greased pan and bake in a moderate 
oven for three-quarters of an hour 
or an hour. 



Chocolate Cake A la Creole, 

Gateau au Chocolat a la Crfiole. 

1% Cups of Flour, m Cups of Sugar, 

14 Cup of Butter. 4 Eggs. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Chocolate, or 

2 Ounces. 

% Cup of Mlk. 1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
gradually .add the sugar, beating 
constantly. "When very light, add the 
yolks of the eggs, and beat till these 
are very light. Then add the milk 
and the chocolate, which you will 
have dissolved in four tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water. Mix thoroughly, 
and add by degrees the flour, beat- 
ing all the while. Give a very vig- 
orous beating and add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Stir them very carefully into the 
batter, and add the vanilla, and final- 
ly the baking powder. Mix all very 
quickly and lightly, and set to bake 
in buttered pans in a moderate oven 
for three-quarters of an hour. 

Citron Cake. 

Gateau au C§drat. 

1 Quart of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 

2 Cups of Sugar, 12 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Cream. 1 Glass of Wine. 

1 Cup of Chopped Citron. 

1 Teaspoonful of Almond Extract. 
Beat the butter to a cream. Add 

the sugar, and beat till very light. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs, and 
beat till very light. Add the cream, 
and mix thoroughly, and then add by 
degrees the citron, mixing thorough- 
ly. Now, by degrees, add the flour, 
well-sifted. Beat well. Then add the 
wine, and lastly the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix all 
quickly and lightly; add the almond 
extract, mix lightly, and then set to 
bake in a buttered pan in a mod- 
erate oven for one hour. 

Cocoanut liOaf Cake. 

Gateau au Coco. 

Vi Pound of Butter. 2 Cups Grated Cocoanut, 

5 Eggs. 1 Cup of Milk. 

^ Cup of Butter. % Pound of Flour. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
The Juice and Grated Zest of 1 Lemon, 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
rich cream. Add the yolks of the 
eggs, and beat till very light. Then 
add the milk, and the flour by de- 
grees, beating 'all the while, and 
then add the lemon. Beat well. Add 
the cocoanut, and stir in carefully 
and well. Sift the baking powder 
over the whites of the eggs, which 
you will have beaten to a stiff froth, 
and add these, beating lightly and 
thoroughly. Have ready two loaf 
pans, and line them with very thin 
buttered paper. Now divide the bat- 



275 



ter Into two even parts, filling eaoli 
pan about tliree-quarters full. Set 
in a moderate oven, and bake for 
forty-five minutes. When done, cov- 
er the top with finely-grated cocoa- 
nut, and sift powdered sugar over it.' 
Set it to cool. This Is a famous Cre- 
ole cake. 

Clove Cake, 

Gateau de Girofles. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Sour Cream. 1 Egg. 

1/4 Cup of Flour. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda. A Pinch of Salt. 

Beat the sugar and yolk of the egg 
to a cream. Add the cream and soda 
blended. Mix thoroughly. Then add 
the cloves, and mix well. Sift the 
flour and salt together, and add 
gradually, beating all the while. Give 
several vigorous beats, and set to 
bake in a buttered tin in a moderate 
oven for forty-five minutes. 

Cofflee Cake. 

Gateau de Caf6. 

1 Cup of Cafe Noir (Black Coffee). 
4 Eggs. 4 Cups of Flour. 

1 Cup of Butter. 1 Cup of Molasses. 
1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Seeded Kaisins. 

1 Cup of Currants, Washed and Dried. 
1 Grated Nutmeg. 

% Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 
% Teaspoonful of Cloves. 
% Teaspoonful of Soda, Dissolved In Warm 
Water. 
Wash and cream the butter. Add 
the sugar and beat till very light. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs. Beat 
them into the butter and sugar till 
very light. Add the molasses, and 
mix thoroughly. Then take the 
seeded currants and raisins and 
blend them with one-half of the flour 
and add gradually. Now, add by de- 
grees the remainder of the flour, 
beating vigorously. Then add the 
coffee, and mix well. Add the soda, 
dissolved in hot water. Add the 
spices, mix well, and finally add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stifC 
froth. Mix thoroughly but lightly, 
divide into two parts, set in two 
greased paper-lined tins, and bake 
from forty-five minutes to one hour 
in a moderate oven. 

caramel Cake. 

Gateau au Caramel. 

1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Milk. 1% Cups of Flour, Sifted. 

1 Cup of Cornstarch. 

Whites of 7 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, 
and beat till v?ry light. Then add 
the milk. Mix well. Sift the flour, 
cornstarch and baking powder to- 
gether, and add gradually to the mix- 
ture, beating vigorously all the 
while. Then add the va.nllla: and the 



whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Mix all quickly and lightly, 
turn into a long family pan, and 
bake for 'about half an hour in a 
moderate oven. Apply the broom 
wisp test. When done, take out of 
the oven and, set to cool. When cool, 
take 

2 Cups of Brown Sugar. 

1 Cup Sweet Cream. 2 Teaspoonfuls Vanilla. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Boil all together until it sugars, 
and spread over the top and sides. 

Or, if you wish something" much 
nicer, make the following mixture: 
% Pound Brown Sugar. % Pound Chocolate. 

14 Cup Milk. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

2 Tablespoontuls of Vanilla. 
Grate the chocolate, and set all to 

boiling together until thick enough 
to spread over the top and sides of 
the cake. This is delicious. 

Cnp Cake. 

Gateau Savoie. 
1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

3 Cups of Flour. . 4 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon or Rose Extract. 
Beat the butter to a cream. Add 
the sugar gradually, beating all the 
while. Then beat the yolks until 
they are very light, and add to the 
mixture. Add the milk. Mix well, 
and add half of the flour, which you 
will have sifted with the baking 
powder. Then add the well-beaten 
whites of the eggs, and the remain- 
der of the flour, and the extract of 
Lemon or Rose. Filially add the bak- 
ing powder, mix quickly and lightly, 
turn into a Turk's head pan, which 
you will have lined with a greased 
paper, and bake for forty-five min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cup Cake. 

Un. Deux. Trois, Quatre. 
i Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

3 Cups of Flour. 4 Eggs. 
Beat the butter to a cream. Add 
the sugar. Beat till very light. Beat 
the eggs (yolks and whites together) 
till very light, and add them grad- 
ually to the butter and sugar, beat- 
ing all the while. Beat vigorously. 
Add the sifted flour, and beat thor- 
oughly until very light. Then line 
a round cake pan with the buttered 
paper, and fill with the mixture. Set 
in a moderate oven, and bake for 
one hour and a quarter. 

Cake Witliout Eggs. 

Gateau Sans Oeufs. 

2 Cups of Sifted Flour. 1 Cup of Milk. 

1:^4 Cups of Sugar. 2 Tablespoontuls Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

14 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Beat the sugar and the butter to 

a, cream, and then add the m.llk. 



276 



stirring carefully. Add the flour, 
and beat well and hard. Then add 
the salt, flavoring- extract and bak- 
ing powder. Mix all thoroughly, and 
bake in a moderate oven for a half 
hour. 

Delicate Calce, 

Dfilioatesse. 

H4 Cnps of Plour. 1% Cups of Sugar. 

% Cup of Cornstarch, Sifted With the Flour. 

J^ Cup of Butter. % Cup of Milk. 

, Whites of 6 Egss. 

2 Teaspoonfuls Baiting Powder. 

% Teaspoonful of Extract of Lemon. 

Vi. Teaspoonful Salt. 

Cream the butter and beat it and 
the sugar to a cream. Add the jnilk, 
and stir carefully. Then add grad- 
ually the flour, into which has been 
sifted the salt and the cornstarch, 
and mix thoroughly. Then add the 
flavoring extract, and, lastly, the 
whjtes of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Sift the baking powder 
over the whites. Mix quickly and 
ligTitly with the batter, and bake 
forty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

Dried Fruit Calse, 

Gateau de Fruits Sees. 

3 Cups .of Dried Appies, Peaches or any 

Kind of Dried Fruit. 

2 Cups of Louisiana Molasses. 

1 Cup of Milk. 2 Eggs. 54 Cup of Butter. 

1 Cup of Suzar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cloves and 

Macfi. 

% Pound of Stoned Raisins. 

% Grated Nutmeg. 14 Teaspoonful Salt. 

The Juice of a Lemon. 

1% Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder or 1 

Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Soak the fruit over night. Then 
chop very line, and simmer in a 
saucepan with the molasses for two 
hours and a half. Let it cool. Seed 
the raisins. Beat the butter and su- 
gar to a cream, until very light. Ad I 
the yolks of the eggs, and beat till 
light. Now add the milk and then 
the fruit and molasses, stirring care- 
fully. Beat hard for five minutes. 
Now add the flour, which you will 
have sifted with the baking powder, 
and beat vigorously for five min- 
utes. If you use soda, dissolve it 
at this point into a tablespoonful 
of boiling water, and add, mixing 
well. Then add the raisins, and beat 
vigorously, and the spices and salt. 
Add the juice of the lemon, and final- 
ly the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a ^tlffi froth. The batter must be 
stiff, but of sufHcient elasticity to 
drop from the spoon. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven for two hours. Use 
the broom wisp to test; If It 
comes out clean and dry, then the 
cake is done. This Is a very nice 



and economical family cake, if prop- 
erly made. 

Fis Calie. 
Gateau de Figues. 

1 Cup Butter. 2 Cups Sugar. 1 Cup Milk. 
3 Cups of Seeded Balsins. 

1 Pound of Figs, Chopped Very Fine. 
1 Egg. 2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder, 

3 Cups of Plour. 
Vi Teaspoonful of Salt. V4, Grated Nutmeg. 

Beat the butter to a cream and 
add the sugar. Then beat very 
light, and add the egg. Beat well 
and add the milk; carefully and 
gradually add the flour, into which 
you have sifted the baking powder. 
Add the raisins and the flgs, and 
beat thoroughly; add the grated nut- 
meg, and bake for an hour in a. 
moderate oven. Bake slowly, and 
use the broom wisp test.. If not 
done, bake longer, till the straw 
comes out clean and dry. 

Fruit Calce. 

Gateau de Fruits. 

V4 Pound of Grated Lemon and Orange Peel, 

Mixed, 

% Pound of Eaisins. 

Yi Pound of Preserved Cherries. 

54 Pound of Sultanas. 

Vi Pound of Preserved Figs. 

Vi Pound of Citron. 

Vi Pound of Preserved Aaricots. 

% Pound of Sifted Plour. 

Vi Pound of Preserved Pineapple. 

14 Pound of Butter. 

^ Pound of Mashed Almonds. 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 

% Pound Of White Pulverized Sugar. 

' 14 TaMespoonful of Mace. 

8 Eggs. 'Vi Tablespoonful Ground Cinnamon. 

1 , The Juice of 1 Oranse. 

14 Tablespoonful of Cloves. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

lii Tablespoonful Ground Allspice. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

14 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
1 Wineglassful of Good Brandy. 
1 Wineglassful of Sherry Wine or Jamaica 
Rum, 
Prepare the fruit first. Stone thQ 
raisins, picking carefully. Pick over 
the sultanas carefully, and wasji 
them well. Then cut the orange and 
lemon zest very fine, almost grat- 
ing. Cut the citron very, very fine. 
Cut all the remaining fruit into 
quarter-inch dice, or very, very small 
pieces. You may use the candied 
fruit, but the preserved is recom- 
mended as better and lighter and 
more digestible. Beat the butter to 
a rich cream, and then add the sugar, 
and beat all till very, very ligh^. 
Beat the yolks and the whites of th& 
eggs together till very, very light, 
and then add them to the sugar an(I 
butter, and then beat again very, 
very light. Sift the salt and baking- 
powder and flour together, and grad- 
ually add it to the mixture, beatiwgr 



277 



very vigorously till light. Then 
mix all the fruit together, dredging 
with flour, so as to keep them apart, 
and then add the spices to the 
tatter. Mix well, and add the fruit. 
Mix thoroughly, and "then add the 
brandy or rum. Beat all together 
well once more, and then line a cake 
pan with buttered paper, and turn 
the mixture into it. and bake in a 
very slow, steady oven for four and 
a half hours. Use the broom wisp 
test. "When it comes out clean and 
■dry the cake is done. Then let it 
stand over night in the pan to 
cool. In the morning take it out 
and remove the paper. Take one pint 
of the best French brandy, and one 
pint of the best champagne, and one 
gill of orange, raspberry or straw- 
berry syrup, mixed with the wine. 
Set the cake in a stone pot of suf- 
ficient size, and pour the mixture 
over it. Then set the cake in a cool 
place and cover the top of the jar 
airtight with a piece of thin linen, 
and set the cover on top. Let the 
cake stand for three weeks. A't the 
•end of that time remove the cover 
and paper, and turn the cake, and let 
it stand for three weeks longer. The 
Creoles always let their fruit cakes 
stand for six weeks at least before 
cutting. This is an old Creole recipe 
for Fruit Cake, and very excellent. 
The above will make an eight-pound 
cake. 

Plain Fruit Catee. 

Gateau de Fruits. 
It is not every housewife who can 
afford to make the above fruit cake; 
those of limited means will find the 
following simple cake much more 
economical; it is very excellent: 

1 Pound of Brown Sugar. 1 Pound of Butter. 

10 Eggs. 2 Pounds of Seeded Raisins. 

2 Pounds of Currants. 1 Pound of Citron. 

14 Pound of Almonds. 1 Nutmeg. 
1 Teaspoonful Each of Ground Allspice and 

Cinnamon. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Ground Mace and 

Cloves. 

% Pound of Sifted Flour. 

The Zest Each of an Orange and Lemon. 

Yi Teaspoonful of Salt. 
The Juice of 1 Orange and 1 Lemon. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
1 Wineglassful of Good French Brandy. 
1 Wineglassful of Sherry Wine or Jamaica 
Rum. 
Prepare the fruit by seeding the 
raisins, washing and drying the cur- 
rants, cutting the citron Into shreds 
and dice, and mashing the almonds. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream 
and add the eggs, which .you will 
■first beat, without separating whites 
and yolks, till very light. Beat these 
?nto the sugar and butter till very 
Ueht and then add the flour grad- 
Jiflly and the spices. Sift the flour 
with the baking powder and salt, and 



then mix the fruit into it before add- 
ing to the cake. Beat vigorously. 
Then add the grated zest of the 
orange and lemon, and the juices of 
both. Stir well and add the brandy 
and wine or rum. Mix well. Divide 
the batter into two pans, which you 
will have lined with greased paper, 
and bake in a steadily moderate oven 
for four hours. Use the broom wisp 
test, and if it comes out clean and 
ary the cake is done. If not, let the 
cake bake from a quarter to a half 
hour longer, watching carefully. This 
will make a nine-pound cake, or two 
four-and-a-half-pound cakes. "When 
done, put the cake into an earthen- 
ware bowl, with a flat bottom. Pour 
over a pint of the best brandy and 
half a pint of Sherry Wine. Make 
the vessel air tight by tying around 
a linen cloth, and put on the cover. 
Set the cake away for about three 
weeks, and then open and turn. Let 
it remain three weeks longer, and the 
cake is ready to cut. If you wish 
to use it sooner, do not add the liquor 
after baking, but set the cake away 
to cool in the pan in which it was 
baked. Then place in a cool place 
after taking out and removing the 
paper, and wait eight days before 
cutting. 

Glneer Cake. 

Gateau au Gingembre. 

3 Cups of Flour. 2 Egss. 

% Cup of Milk or Sour Cream. 

1 Teaspoonful ot Soda or Baking Powder. 

% Cup of Butter or Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger, or 1 Ta- 

blespoonful Bach of Ground Cinnamon 

and Ginger. 

1^ Cups of Louisiana Molasses. 

1 Pint of Louisiana Molasses. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs to a 
cream and then add the melted but- 
ter, beating till very light. Sift the 
baking powder and the flour to- 
gether, and add the ginger, mixing 
well; then add the milk and the mo- 
lasses to the butter and eggs, mixing 
thoroughly. "When well blended, add 
the flour and ginger and baking pow- 
der (mixed) and beat vigorously. 
Finally add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, turn into a 
well-greased tin, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for forty-five minutes. 
Use the broom wisp test before tak- 
ing the cake out of the oven. 

Glneer Bread. 

Pain d'fipices. 

14, Pound of Butter. % Pound of Sugar. 

3 Pints of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Ground Ginger. 

1 Teaspoonful Ground Cinnamon. 

1 Pint of Sweet Milk or Sour Cream. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda or Baking Powder. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 

then add the sugar. Beat till very 

light, and then beat the yolks of the 



278 



eggs till creamy and add to the but- 
ter and sugar. Beat very light. Now 
add the molasses and stir well, mix- 
ing thoroughly; then add the milk 
and mix well into the flour, with 
which you will have sifted the bak- 
ing powder, and beat till very smooth. 
Then add the ground ginger and cin- 
namon; mix well; and finally add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth; mix well and pour into two 
well-greased, shallow tins. Bake in 
a moderate oven for forty minutes, 
using the broom wisp test before tak- 
ing out of the oven. Sprinkle with 
white sugar and serve, either hot 
or cold. If soda is used, dissolve it 
in a tablespoonful of boiling water 
and add to the molasses; then add 
to the butter and sugar before adding 
the flour and milk. Some beat the 
whites and yolks together; but the 
bread is rtiuch lighter and more deli- 
cate when the whites and yolks are 
beaten separately. 

Stage Planks or Ginger Bread Wlth- 
ont Butter or Egsa, 

Eslomao Muiatre. 

1 Cup of Molasses. 1 Cup of Sour Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger. 

1 Gill of Lard. 3 Cups of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Soda. 

Melt the molasses, lard and ginger 
together and blend well. When thor- 
oughly melted and warmed, beat for 
about ten minutes. Then dissolve 
the soda in a tablespoonful of boil- 
ing water and add to the molasses; 
mix it thoroughly, and then add the 
flour, using good Judgment and add- 
ing just enough of the three cups 
of sifted flour to make a. stiff bat- 
ter; beat thoroughly and vigorously. 
Have ready several greased, shallow 
pans; pour the mixture into them and 
bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. 
This bread makes the famous 
"Stage Planks," or ginger cakes, sold 
by the old darkies around New Or- 
leans, In old Creole days, to those 
of their own race and to little white 
children. The ancient Creoles, fond 
of giving nicknames, gave to this 
stiff ginger cake the name of "Es- 
tomac Muiatre." or "The Mulatto's 
Stomach," meaning that it was' only 
fit for the stomach of a mulatto to 
digest. 

Prencli-Creole Cake. 

Gateau Fransais-CrSole. 

1 Pound of Sifted Sugar (Wbite Pulverized). 

The Grated Peel of 1 Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water. 

12 Eggs. % Pound of Sifted Flour. 

14 Pound of Mashed Rice (Dried). 

1 Tablespoonful of Baking Powder. 

4 Ounces Sweet Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 

stiff froth, after having blanched and 

peeled the almonds and pounded them 



to a fine powder in a mortar. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs very light, and 
gradually add the rice, which has 
been well-mashed. Mix the almonds 
thoroughly with the flour; then add 
these gradually to the sugar, beating 
vigorously. Add the grated zest of 
the lemon and the essence, and final- 
ly add the whites of the eggs and 
mix lightly and quickly. Butter a 
paper and line the bottom and sides 
of the pan, and bake the cake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. 

Fruit Glngrer Bread. 

Pain d'fipices aux Fruits. 

1 Pound of Flour. % Pound of Butter. 

V2 Pound of Sucar. 

1 Cup of Louisiana Molasses. 

^ Pound of Haislns. 

% Pound of Currants, Washed and Dried. 

% Cup of Sour Cream. 3 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda or Baking Powder 

(Level). 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground- Ginger. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cinnamon and 

Cloves. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and warm the molasses and 
beat with the sugar and butter. Then 
add the well-beaten yolks of the 
eggs, and the milk and spices and 
ginger, mixing thoroughly. Add the 
soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
boiling water; mix well; and mix the 
seeded raisins and currants well; 
then add the flour by degrees, beat- 
ing vigorously. Finally add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, and beat thoroughly. Put in 
two shallow pans in the oven for 
about two hours. The broom wisp 
test must be used before taking the 
cake out of the oven. Sugar ginger 
loaf is made in the same manner, 
simply omitting the fruits and 'spiced 
ginger loaf and adding a teaspoon- 
ful each of ground cloves, mace, cin- 
namon and allspice to the ginger. 

Gold Cake. 

Gateau d'Or. 
114 Cups of Sugar. 1 Cup of Milk. 
14 Cud of Butter. 
3 iCups of Flour. The Ifolks of 6 Eggs. 
■ 2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
Beat the butter to a cream; add the 
sugar and beat till very light Then 
add the well-beaten yolks of the. 
eggs; beat vigorously till light, and 
gradually add the flour, Into which 
you will have sifted the baking pow- 
der. Bake for forty-five minutes In 
a moderate oven. Save the whites of 
the eggs for Silver Cake. 

Silver Cake. 

Gateau Argentfi. 

V2 Cup of Butter. 1% Cups of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Milk. 3 Cups of Flour. 

2. Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

The Whites of 6 Egis. 

Beat the butter to a cream; then 

add the well-beaten sugar and beat 



279 



well; add the yolks of the eggs and 
beat till very light. Then add the 
milk and mix carefully. Now sift 
the flour and baking powder to- 
gether, and add gradually . to the 
mixture. Turn into a buttered pan 
and bake in a moderate oven for 
forty-flVe minutes. 

Honey Cake. 

Gateau de Miel. 

1 Teaspoon'ful of Honey. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sugar. 

^ Teaspoonful of Melted Butter. 

1 Pint of Flour. 2 Esgs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Carraway Seeds. 

This is a very popular Creole cake. 
Take one teacupful each of honey 
and sugar, and mix well. Add a 
halt teaspoonful of melted butter and 
the yolks of two well-beaten eggs; 
sift one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der into a pint of flour and add. 
Beat all together till very light, and 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Finally, add a tea- 
spoonful of carraway seed, if desired, 
and bake in a moderate oven from 
half an hour to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Imperial Cafee. 

Gateau Imperial. 

1 Pound ot Butter. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pound of Plour. 

The Juice and Rind of 1 Lemon. 

1 Pound of Blanched Almonds. 

Ms Pound of Citron. 

% Pound of Raisins. 9 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Blanch and peel and pound the 
almonds in a mortar. Seed the rai- 
sins, and cut the citron into shreds 
and quarter-inch dice, very fine. 
Grate the zest of the lemon. Beat 
the butter to a cream. Add the su- 
gar gradually, beating till very light. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs beat- 
en to a cream. Beat till very light, 
and mix the sifted flour and baking 
powder with the almonds, and add 
them gradually to the mixture, beat- 
ing vigorously. Add the raisins, 
dredging with flour, and the citron. 
Mix well. Add the Juice of the lem- 
on, and finally the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a thick froth. Turn 
into a buttered tin. and bake for an 
hour in a moderate oven. Use the 
broom-wisp test before taking out 
of the oven. 

Indian Ponnd Cafee. 

Gateau I'Indienne. 
% Cup of Flour. 1 Cup of Indian Meal. 

% Pound of Butter. 
% Pound Sugar. 8 Eggs. 1 Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cinnamon. 

% Glass of Sherry Wine and Brandy, Mixed. 

Stir the' butter and sugar to a 

cream, and add the well-beaten yolks 

of the eggs. Beat till very light, and 



then add the meal and flour, well 
blended. Beat light. Add the spices 
and liquor, and finally the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat thoroughly, but lightly, and 
turn into a buttered tin, and bake in 
a moderate oven for an hour and a 
half. 

Lady Cake (White). 

Gateau Blanc a, la Dame. 

1% Cups of Flour. 1 Oup of Sugar. 

V: Cup of Butter. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. i^ Cup of Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonlul of Peach Extract. 
Cream the butter, add the eggs, 

beating the whites to a stiff froth, 
and mixing well. Add the milk, and 
gradually add the flour, blending 
thoroughly, and beating till very 
light. Add the essence, and bake in 
a moderate oven for one hour. 

Lnnch Cake. 

Gateau du GoUter. 

i Cups of Sugar. 3 Cups of Flour. 
% Cup of Milk. 2 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder, 
1 Teaspoonful of Peach Extract. 

Beat the sugar and eggs to a 
cream, and add the milk. Then add 
gradually the flour, into which you 
will have sifted the baking powder. 
Add one tablespoonful of Peach Ex- 
tract, and bake in a moderate oven 
for three-quarters of an hour. 

Madame John's Cake. 

Gateau de M'me Jean. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 7 Ounces Butter. 

The Whites of 16 Eggs, Whipped to a Stiff 

Froth-. 

1 Pound Sifted Flour. Juice of 1 Orange. 

Cream the sugar and butter to- 
gether till very light. Then add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
snow, after which stir in gradually 
the flour and one teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Flavor with the 
juice of one orange, or with a table- 
spoonful of Orange Extract, and bake 
for from thirty to forty-five minutes 
in a quick oven. "Use the broom-wisp 
test. 

Marble Cake. 
Gateau MarbrS. 

The white part: 

% Cup of Butter. % Cup ot Milk. , 

1% Cups of White Pulverized Sugar, 

21^ Cups of Flour. The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Lemon. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 

gradually add the sugar, beaten 

thoroughly till very light. Then add 

the milk, and stir carefully. " Add 

one-half of the flour, evenly, divided. 

Beat vigorously, and add the Lemon 

Extract. Mix well, and add the 



280 



■whites o( the eggs, beattn to a thick 
froth, and the remainder of the 
flour. Then stand this mixture to 
one side while you make the dark 
part of the cake. 

Dark part: 

% Cup of Butter. 1 Cup of Brown 'Sugar. 

The yolks ot 4 Esis. 

Vi Cup of Milk. 1% Cups of Flour. 

2 Ounces of Melted Chocolate. 

1 Teasijoonful Vanilla. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cloves (if desired). 
1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

Beat the hutter and the sugar to 
a cream, till very light, and. then add 
the beaten yolks of ' the eggs, and 
beat till very, light. Add the milk, 
and stir carefully. Then add the 
flour, and blend and beat till smooth. 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little of 
the milk, and add, mixing well, and 
then add the vanilla essence and the 
baking powder to tthe mixture. Add 
the baking powder now. to the first 
mixture, and mix thoroughly and 
lightly. Then grease a piece of 
brown paper, and line the cake pan, 
and put in first a spoonful of the 
white mixture and then one of the 
dark, and continue alternating thus 
till all is used. Set in a moderate 
oven, and bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. Try the broom-straw 
test, and if it comes out clean and 
dry, the cake is done. If not, bake 
a quarter of an hour longer. The 
cake must cool in the pan In which 
It was baked. When cut you will 
have a beautifully marbled cake. 

Chocolate Alarble Cake. 

Gateau Marbrg au Chocolat. 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. 1 Cup of Butter. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 3 Cups of Flour. 

% Cu2 of Sweet Milk. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder, 
% Cake of Grated Chocolate. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a' 
cream, and then add the milk. Sift 
the flour and baking powder togeth- 
er, and stir into the cake gradually. 
Then add the vanilla essence and the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Divide the cake batter in two, 
and mix the grated chocolate into 
one half. Then put a dark layer of 
cake in the pan, then a light, and 
continue so alternating until all the 
batter is used. Bake in a moderate 
oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

Motley Cake, 

Gateau M616. 

1 Pound ot Sugar. % Pound ot Butter. 

3 Cups of Flour. 12 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Peach Extract. 

1 Teaspoonful ot Fruit Coloring. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 

cream and then add the well-beaten 

yolks of the eggs. Beat until very 



light. Then add gradually the flour, 
into which you will have sifted, in 
the second sifting, the baking poT7- 
der. Mix thoroughly and beat vig- 
orously. Then add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stifiC froth. Now di- 
vide the batter into two parts, and 
put one spoonful of Peach ' Extract 
into one, and one spoonful of fruit 
coloring into the other. Mix well, 
and drop by spoonfuls into tTie but- 
tered cake pan. first a spoonful of 
the white, and then one of the pink, 
until all the batter is used up. Bake 
from forty-five minutes to one hour 
in a moderate oven. 

Molasses Cake. 

Gateau a. la Mglasse. 

2 Cups ot Louisiana Molasses. 

1 Cup of Boiling Milk or Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder or Sods. 

3% Cups ot Flour (Sifted). 

4 'Eggs. 1 Cup Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger, 

Vi. Teaspoonful ot Cloves. 

Melt the butter. Dissolve the soda 
in the boiling water, using about 
one tablespoonful, and add it to the 
molasses. Then beat the sugar and 
butter to a cream, until very light, 
and add the well-beaten yolks of the 
eggs. Add these to the molasses, and 
then stir in the cream. Beat till 
smooth, and then add gradually the 
flour, beating till very light and 
smooth. Now add the ginger and 
cloves, or a teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
and the w^hites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Place In a shallow 
cake pan, buttered, and bake in a 
moderate oven from thirty to forty- 
five minutes. 

A Plain Molasses Cake. 

Gateau a, la Mfilasse. 

1 Cup ot Louisiana Molasses. 

3 Cups ot Flour. 1 Cup of Boiling Water. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful Ginger. 

Dissolve the soda in boiling water, 
and add it to the molasses. Then 
melt the butter, and add. and pour 
in gradually the boiling water, mix- 
ing well. Now add gradually the 
flour, beating well, and add the gin- 
ger. Beat until all is very smooth, 
and then bake for a half hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Manqnfi. 

The Tolks of 8 Eggs. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs, Beaten to a Froth. 

Vt Pound ot Wlilte Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Cup of Flonr. 

The Grated Zest ot 1 Lemon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the sugar and butter and 
yolks of the eggs to a very light 
cream, and then add the grated zest 



281 



of the lemon. Gradually add the 
flour, which you will haVe mingled 
and sifted with the baking powder. 
Then add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Beat lightly 
and quickly, and place in a buttered 
cake pan, and bake for thirty min- 
utes in a moderately quick oven. 

Nat Cake. 

Gateau aux Noix. 

1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

3 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Milk. 

4 Eggs. 1 Cup of Nut Meats, Cut Fine. 

2 Teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. 

% Teaspoonful of Extract of Almond. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
add the sugar, and beat till very 
light. Then add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs, and beat till very 
light. Add the milk, and mix care- 
fully. Then sift the baking powder 
and flour together, and add the flour, 
beating till very smooth. Add half 
th# beaten whites, which must be of 
a stiff froth, and mix well. Then add 
the nuts (pecans, mashed almonds, 
peanuts and Brazilian nuts, mixed, 
and cut or mashed very flne). Add 
the remainder of the whites of the 
eggs, the Almond Extract and the 
baking jowder, and mix well. Pour 
into two square, flat pans, lined with 
buttered paper, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven forty-flve minutes. Use 
the broom-straw test. If the straw 
comes out clean and dry. the cake 
is done; otherwise bake it a little 
longer. Keep the heat of the oven 
steady and moderate. 

Orange Cafee. 

Gateau d'Orange. 

1 Ripe Oranges. 1 Pound Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Pound of Butter. 

14 Ounces of Flour. 10 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Wash the oranges. Then dry and 
roll them under your hand on a 
board till very soft. Grate the zest 
of the oranges, and then cut ud the 
fruit fine, and squeeze through a 
strainer till all the juice is extracted. 
Wash the butter till you extract all 
the salt, and then beat it to a cream. 
Add the sugar, and beat thoroughly, 
and then add the orange zest and 
juice, and beat till very light. Add 
the yolks of the eggs, well-beaten, 
and again beat the mixture till light. 
Then, by degrees, add the flour, ad'd- 
ing alternately the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Beat 
the whole for a half hour, and then 
bake in a moderate oven for forty- 
flve minutes or an hour, using the 
broom-wisp test. If you ice the cake, 
add orange juice to the icing. 



Pearl Cake. 

Gateau a, la Perle. 

% Pound of Butter. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Milk. 4 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 1 Pound of Flour. 

V2 Grated Nutmea. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Beat the butter and the sugar to 
a cream. Beat the eggs, whites and 
yolks separately, and add the yolks. 
Then beat till very light. Add the 
soda, dissolved in a tablespoonfjil of 
boiling water, and then add the milk 
and beat carefully. Add the flour 
gradually, and beat vigorously. Then 
add the spices and essence, and last- 
ly the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Bake for an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Premium Cake. 

Gateau Royal. 

The Whites of 14 Eggs. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

% Pound of Flour. % Pound Butter. 

1 Wineglassful of Good Whisky. 

The Juice and Grated Zest of 1 Lemon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and add one-half of the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Then add the, flour gradually, beat- 
ing thoroughly and well, till very 
light. Now add the whisky and the 
lemon juice, and the grated zest of 
the lemon, and finally add the re- 
mainder of the whites and the bak- 
ing powder, beating till very light. 
Bake in a moderate oven from forty- 
five minutes to an hour. 

Pound Cake. 

1 Pound of 'Sugar. 1 Pound of Butter. 

1 Pound of Flour. 10 Egjs. 

1 Teaspoou'ful Baking Powder. 

1 Tatilespoonful of Lemon or Vanilla Extract. 

Wash the salt from one pound of 
butter. Then take a tablespoon and 
take out one heaping tablespoonful 
of butter from the pound. Experience 
of years in baking pound cakes has 
taught that a whole pound of butter 
will make a greasy cake, though 
many use a pound. If once this lat- 
ter method is tried, the difference 
will be apparent in the superior qual- 
ity of the cake. After washing the 
butter, beat it with the white pul- 
verized sugar to a thick cream. Have 
the baking powder and the flour 
sifted together. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs well, and then add them 
to the sugar and butter, beating 
till very light. Then add a part of 
the flour, and beat light. Add a 
part of the whites of the eggs and 
mix thoroughly. Then alternate with 
the flour and the whites of the 
eggs until all are used up. Add the 
essence of lemon or vanilla and a 
gill of brandy, and continue beating 
vigorously for a half hour. Put the 



282 



batter in a cake pan (a Turk's head), 
lined with a buttered paper, and bake 
for one hour in a moderate oven. 
Use the broom-straw test. If the 
cake is not quite done, bake a quar- 
ter of an hour longer. Never touch 
or move a pound cake in the oven 
till the center is set. 



Pound Cake No. 2. 

1 Pound of Wliite Pulveiizea Sugar. 

10 Fggs. 1 Pouna Sifted Flour. 
1 Grated Nutmeff. 1 Wineglassful of Brandy. 

1 Pound of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla, Lemon or Rose 

Water. 

1 TeasDoonful of Baking Pawder. 

Wash the butter and drain, and 
take out a heaping- teaspoonful. Then 
beat the remainder to a, rich cream 
with the sugar, and add the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat till 
very light, and add a part of the 
flour, into which you will have sifted 
the baking powder. Then add a part 
of the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth, and continue alternat- 
ing with the flour and the eggs till 
all are used up. Then add tlie grat- 
ed nutmeg, the brandy and the es- 
sence, and continue beating steadily 
for a half hour. Bake in a moderate 
oven for one hour. Use the broom- 
wisp test. If it comes out clean and 
dry the cake is done; otherwise con- 
tinue baking for a, quarter of an 
hour longer. 

Some of the Creoles, in making 
pound cake, use sixteen eggs, leav- 
ing out the yolks of four, others use 
twelve eggs. The above measure- 
ments will be found exact, and if the 
cake is properly made it will be 
delicious. 

The above measurements will make 
-a, four-pound cake. 

IVliite Pound Cake. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 1 Pound of Flour. 

1 Pound of Butter. The Whites of 16 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoon-ful Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 
Wash the butter. Then beat it and 

the sugar to a fine cream. Add one- 
quarter of the flour, well-sifted with 
the baking powder. Then add one- 
quarter of the whites of tlie eggs, 
which you will have beaten to a stiff 
froth. Continue alternating the 
eggs and flour till all are used. Add 
the flavoring extract, and beat stead- 
ily for a half hour. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven for one hour. 



Plum Cake or Old-Fashloned Creole 
'Weddlns Cake. . 

Gateau de Noces Crgole k I'Ancienne. 

2V4 Pounds' Flour. 1% Pounds Sifted Sugar. 
114 Pounds Butter. 
1 Pound of Seeded and Chopped Raisins. 
1 Pound Chopped and Dried Cherries. 
1 Pound of Currants, Washed, Cleansed anj 
Dried. 
12 Eggs. 1 Ounce of Salt. 
lYs Pounds of Shredded' Orange. Lemon anj 
Green Citron Peel, Combined. 
% Pint of French Brandy. 
V2 Gill of Caramel or Burnt Sugar. Coloring. 
8 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 
The Zest of 4 Oranges. 
1 Ounce of Ground Cloves. 
Cinnamon, Nutmeg and Coriander Seed io 
Equal Proportions. 
Work the butter until it becomes 
very creamy, using a wooden spoon. 
Then add the sugar, working to a 
thick cream, and add the yolks of 
the eggs, well-beaten. Beat till 
light, and add by degrees the flour, 
salt and two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder, working the batter all the 
time. Then add the fruit, -which 3M>ft 
will have dredged slightly -with flour, 
working them well into the batter. 
Add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a thick froth, and when all are 
well incorporated, pour the mixture 
into a baking pan, lined with double 
sheets of buttered paper, and place 
on top thick sheets of paper whicli 
you set in the oven. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, and keep the heat regu- 
lar and steady all the time, being- 
careful not to increase or diminish 
it during the baking. Bake for two 
hours and a half. This is the largest 
wedding cake. To make a smaller 
one, use half the ingredients, and 
bake half the time. 

To ice the cake, clear it of the pa- 
per when it grows cold. Place it on 
a baking sheet, and cover the top 
with a coating of Orgeat Paste (see 
recipe) one and a half inches thick. 
Let it dry for an hour and then cover 
with a coating of Plain Icing (see re- 
cipe) about half an inch in thickness. 
When this becomes hard, decorate it 
with a piping around the edges in 
tasteful designs, mingling artificial 
buds and blossoms in the decorations. 
Add a delicate wreath of blush roses. 
This is the old-fashioned Creole wed- 
ding cake. 

Raisin Cake. 

Gateau de Raisins Sees. 

ll^ Pounds of Stoned Raisins. 

1% Pints of Sugar. 1% Pints of Flour. 

% Pound of Butter. % Pint of Milk. 6 Eggs. 

% Gill of White or Sherry Wine. 

Ms Gill of Brandy. 

2% Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Sift the flour and baking powder 

together. Then beat the butter and 

sugar to a cream, add the yolks of 

the eggs, and beat till very light. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and 



283 



then add alternately the whites and 
flour to the mixture, beating vigor- 
ously till light. Now add the wine 
and brandy. Flour the raisins, and 
shake lightly, till each becomes 
slightly coated on each side, and add 
to the cake batter, and then begin to 
stir lightly, Stirring Just sufficient to 
mix. Have ready a deep baking pan 
or two. lined with buttered paper, 
and bako in a slightly quick oven 
for from forty-five minutes to an 
hour. Have a thick layer of paper 
over the cake for the first half hour 
of baking. 

Spanish Cake. 

Gateau a. I'Espagnole. 

1 Pouad of Butter. 1 Pound of Sifted Flour. 

1 PouQd of Good Brown SuKar. 

6 Well-Beaten Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 

cream. Add the well-beaten yolks 

of the eggs, and then alternately the 

flour, with which the baking powder 

has been sifted, and the' whites of 

the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 

Bake in a buttered cake pan for 

about an hour in a moderate oven. , 

Spice Calce. 

Gateau d'fipices. 

1 Pound of Flour. 

1 Pound of White Pulveiized Sugar. 

% of a Pound of Butter. 9 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

^ Teaspoonrul Ground Allsslce. 
1 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 
% Teaspoonful of Ground Mace. 
1 Wineglasstul Brandy. 
1 Wlneglassful of Sherry or Madeira. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 
1 Cup of Sour Cream. Vi Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Beat the butter and the sugar to 
a cream, and then add the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat till 
very light. Add half the flour grad- 
ually, alternating with half the 
whites of the eggs, which you will 
have beaten to a thick froth. Then 
add the spices, the brandy and the 
wine. Now add gradually the rest of 
the flour, and then the remainder of 
the whites of the eggs. Finally adl 
the sour milk, into which you will 
have dissolved one teaspoonful of 
soda in a tablespoonful of boiling 
water. Stir well, and turn into a 
buttered Turk's head tin. and bake 
for one hour in a moderate oven. 
Use the broom-straw test. 

Spiced Molasses Cake. 

Gateau d'fipices a, la Melasse. 

1 Cup oit Louisiana Jlolnsscs. 

1 Cup of Sugar. % Cup of Butter. 2 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Vinegar. 

2 Teaspoonfuls Soda. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Cloves, Allspice and 

Cinnamon feround). 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 3 Cups of Flour. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Warm the molasses and dilute with 
the vinegar. Beat the butter and 



the sugar to a cream, and then add 
the eggs, whites and yolks, well- 
beaten together. Then add gradually 
one-half of thei flour and the mo- 
lasses. Add the grated spices and 
salt. Beat well. Add the soda, dis- 
solved in two tablespoonfuls of boil- 
ing water, and beat well. Bake in a 
moderate oven from thirty to forty- 
five minutes. 

Sponge Cake. 

Gateau Biscuit de Savoie. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

% Pound Flour. 

The Juice of 1 Bemon. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs very 
light, and then add the sugar, and 
beat till very light. Then add the 
juice of the lemon, and add gradu- 
ally one-half of the flour. Have the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a very 
stiff froth, so clear that they may be 
cut with a knife. Add one-half to 
the cake, and then add the remaining 
half of the flour. Beat well. Now 
add the remaining half of the whites, 
and beat lightly. Pour into a cake 
pan, lined at the bottom and around 
with buttered paper, and bake in a 
quick oven from forty-five minutes 
to one hour, using the broom-straw 
test. Cover the cake with a layer 
of thick brown paper when you first 
put it in the oven. Keep the heat 
of the oven steady. The Sponge Cake, 
next to "Lady Fingers," which are 
a species of sponge, is the very light- 
est of cakes. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

Biscuit de Savoie a la CrSme. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 1 Cup of Cream. 

2 Cups of Flour. 4 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Essence. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar to a cream. Add the cream, 
and gradually add .the flour and bak- 
ing powder, sifted. Add the whites 
of the eggs, beat lightly, and bake in 
a quick oven thirty minutes. 

Qnicli: Sponge Cake. 

Vitement Fait. 

.1 Eggs. 1% Cups of Sugar. 

2 Cups of Flour. % Cup of Cold Water. 

1 Teaspoonful Lemon Extract. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Beat the eggs and sugar to a 
cream, add the water, and mix well. 
Then gradually add the flour, alter- 
nating with the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a thick froth. Bake from 
thirty to forty-five minutes in a 
quick oven. 



284 



^Vhltc Sponee Cake. 

Gateau Blanc. 
m Caps of Pulverized White Sugar. 
1 Cup of Flour. The Whites oj 11 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 
Beat the whites of the eggs and 
the sugar to a thick froth. Mix 
the baking powder and the flour, 
adding the powder after the fourth 
sifting. Then add the flour gradu- 
ally to the eggs, beating lightly and 
thoroughly. Add the esseaice, and 
bake for from thirty to forty-five 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Tuttl-Pruttl Cake. 

Gateau Tutti Frutti. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Butter. 

1 Teacup of Milk. 2% Teacups of Flour. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Pound of Raisins. 1 Pound of Figs. 

1 Potind of Powdered Almonds. 
The Whites of 7 Ejgs. 
Take one teacupful of sugar and 
one of butter and beat to a cream. 
Add a teacupful of milk and two and 
a half teaspoonfuls of flour sifted, 
with two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking poMyder; add one pound of 
raisins, well-seeded, and one pound 
each of shredded figs and pounded 
almonds. After mixing all these' 
well, and the whites of seven eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a 
slow oven. Wiien done, make a 
light syrup and spread over the top, 
and garnish with pieces of finely- 
cut preserved citron, oranges, pre- 
served, currants and other candies. 

A\1ilte Monntaln Cake. 

Gateau 3- la Montagne Blanche. 

1 Pound Sugar. 1% Pounds Butter. 

1 Pound of Flour. The Whites of 10 Eggs. 

% Teaspoonful of Almond Extract. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, 

and beat till very, very light. Add 

the flour alternately with the whites 

of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 

and then the essence extract. Bake 

in a moderate oven one hour. 

WhMe Cream Cake. 

Gateau a. la Cr6me. 
4 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 
1 Cup at Sweet Cream. 
3 Cups of Sugar. The Whites of 10 Eggs. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder, 
1 Teaspoonful of White Rose Extract. 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for White Mountain Cake, 
only addinff the cream Just before 
adding the flour and the whites of 
the eggs. 

TTrelltli Night, or King's Cake. 
Gateau de Roi. 
2 Pounds of the Best Flour. 
12 Eggs. 1 Cup of SuEar. 
1 Pound of the Best Butter. 
Vn Ounce of Yeast. 
14 Ounce of Salt. 
Candies to Decorate, 
This is a Creole cake whose his- 
tory is the history of the famous 



New Orleans carnivals celebrated in 
song and stories. The "King's Cake" 
or "Gateau de Roi," is inseparably 
connected with the origin of our now 
world-famed carnival balls. In fact, 
they owe their origin to the old Cre- 
ole custom of choosing a kingr and 
queen on King's Day, or Twelfth 
Night. In old Creole New Orleans, 
after the inauguration of the Span- 
ish domination and the amalgamation 
of the French settlers and the Span- 
ish into that peculiarly chivalrous 
and romantic race, the Louisiana 
Creole^ the French prettily adopted 
many of the customs of their Spanish 
relatives and vice versa. Among 
these was the traditional Spanish cel- 
ebration of King's Day, "Le Jour des 
■Bois," as the Creoles always term the 
day. King's Day falls on January 6, 
or the twelfth day after Christmas, 
and commemorates the visit of three 
Wise Men of the East. to the lowly 
Bethlehem raanger. This day is even 
in our time still the Spanish Christ- 
mas, when gifts are presented in 
commemoration of the King's gifts. 
With the Creoles it became "L© Petit 
Noel," or Little Christmas, and 
adopting the Spanish custom, there 
were always grand balls on Twelfth 
Night: a king and a queen were 
chosen, and there were constant 
rounds of festivities, night after 
night, till the dawn of Ash Wednes- 
day. Prom January 6, or King's 
Day, to Mardi Gras Day became the 
accepted Carnival season. Each 
week a new king and queen were 
chosen, and no royal rulers ever 
reigned more happily that did these 
kings and queens of a week. 

The method of first choosing the 
king was by cutting the "King's 
Cake." This famous "Gateau de 
Roi" was made of Brioche Batter. 
(See recipe.) It was an Immense 
cake, shaped round like a great ring, 
and decorated with bonbons, dragees, 
caramels, etc. When Twelfth Night 
arrived there was always a flutter 
in old Creole New Orleans. Gener- 
ally some grand mansion was chosen 
for the first ball, and as the evening 
progressed, when the clock struck 
twelve, the guests were all invited 
to be seated around the spacious din- 
ing room .where the "King's Cake" 
was brought in. Now, hidden away 
somewhere in this cake, was a bean, 
or often as not a magnificent jew- 
eled ring. The cake was cut Into 
as many slices as there -were guests, 
the smiling cavaliers and the lovely 
Creole maidens ranged around, each 
of the latter cherishing the wistful 
hope that she might find the bean, 
each of the former hoping likewise 
that he might have the pleasure of 
choosing as his queen some lovely 
girl who held his heart. The cake, 
after being cut, was covered with a 



285 



h/v» Vk "^P'^i". so that one might 
have the opportunity of seeing i( 
the damty morsel had been out near 
the ring or bean, for often the knife 
went very, very near, and the dexter- 
ous manipulator, with a smile, had 
to remove it an inch further from the 
marlc. But it was generally so im- 
bedded in the cake that it was im- 
possible to detect the least trace. 
Champagne was passed with the 
King's Cake, for was it not a royal 
dish? Suddenly there would be a 
little flutter. Soma one had found 
the ring or bean, and all gathered 
around to congratulate the fortu- 
nate finder. If a man, he was hailed 
as the first king of the season, and 
so, if it were a lady, she was sa- 
luted as the aueen. If the finder of 
the bean were a lady, she simply 
chose her king by presenting him 
with a bouquet of violets, which was 
always provided with the cake. If a 
gentleman found the ring or bean, 
the uncrowned king would hold it 
up, and announce that the lady with 
whom he would make the round of 
the parlor, or "le tour du salon" 
would be his queen. Then he would 
take his stand near the mantel, the 
music would strike up, and the beau- 
tiful Dromenade around the room 
would begin, the gentlemen grace- 
fully offering thdir arms to the la- 
dies, the latter laughingly complying 
with the old custom of passing be- 
fore the king while hei choose his 
queen. No doubt there was much 
secret vexation among those bonny 
girls as they passed on and on, the 
king seemingly unable to make a 
choice. Suddenly, he advanced, and, 
taking the flower from the lapel of 
his coat, he presented it to the lady, 
and, if it happened to be a ring In 
the cake, often as not it was a mag- 
nificent diamond, too. .that he pre- 
sented to her. Then offering his, 
arm, he . led the promenade, making 
as lie said, "le tour du salon" with 
her, and then passing beneath the 
chandeliers, he would raise his hand, 
the music ■would cease, and the king 
would proclaim: "Mes sujets, void 
votre reinel Recevez ses commande- 
ments!" Then followed an ovation 
of smiles, congratulations and hom- 
age, as though she were indeed a 
queen succeeding to her born rights. 
And the honors of that night clung 
to her ever after, amid sunshine and 
clouds in the old French Quarter. 

The prettiest old-time courtesies 
were connected with the round of 
balls that followed. These balls were 
always given at the home of the 
queen. The king, whether he found 
the bean of was simply choSen by 
the lady who had found it. was ex- 
pected to bear the entire expense of 
the ball of which he was king, and 
to provide the next King's Cake. He 



was also expected, before the end of 
the week, to make his queen some 
beautiful jeweled gift. These gifts 
of Jewels from the king were the 
only ones th^t the Creole mother 
ever allowed her daughters to accept 
from any gentleman. In this custom 
of presenting the queen of the week 
with Jewels may be distinctly trace! 
the present custom of our Carnival 
kings in presenting the queens with 
Jewels. 

And so. week after week, the fes- 
tivities continued; a King's Cake 
was cut. a new king and queen 
chosen, and this continued till the 
grand culminating ball of Mardi 
Gras night. 

A pretty superstition was also con- 
nected with the King's Cake. The 
lucky finder of the pecan, or bean, or 
ring, which was hidden within was 
henceforth to be favored by fortune. 
The queen cut the bean in two. and 
' gave half of it to her king, and so, 
if a gentleman found it. The lucky 
bean was faithfully preserved as a 
talisman, and in many an old Creole 
family to-day there is carefully pre- 
served a little shriveled amulet which 
was found in the Gateau de Roi on 
Twelfth Night. 

To make the cake take a pound and' 
a half of the above-mentioned qual- 
ity of flour, and put it in a wooden 
bread trough. Make a hole in the 
center of the flour, and put in a half 
ounce of yeast, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Add milk or tepid wa- 
ter to niake the dough, using milk 
if you want it to be very rich and 
delicate, and water if you have not 
the milk. Knead and mix the flour 
with one hand, while adding the 
milk or water with the other. M,ake 
a dough that is neither too stiff nor 
too soft, and when perfectly smooth 
set the dough to rise in a moderately 
warm' place, covering with a cloth. 
Remember that if you use milk to 
niake the dough it must be scalded, 
that is, must be heated to the boiling 
point, and then allowed to grow 
tepid. Let the dough rise for five or 
six hours, and, when increased to 
twice its bulk, take it and add the 
reserved half pound of flour, into 
which you will have sifted the salt. 
Add six eggs, beaten very light with 
the sugar and butter, and mix all 
well together, kneading lightly witli 
your hands, and adding more eggs if 
the dough is a little stiff. Then 
knead the dough by turning it over 
on itself three times, and set to rise 
again for an hour or three-quarters 
of an hour. Cover with a cloth. At 
the end of this time take it up and 
work again lightly, and then form 
into a great ring, leaving, of course, 
a hole in the center. Pat gently and 
flatten a little. Have ready a bak- 



286 



ing- pan with a buttered sheet of 
paper in it. and set the central roll 
in the middle. Cover the pan with 
a clean. stlfE cloth, and set the cake 
to rise for an hour longer. When 
well risen, set in an oven a few 
degrees cooler that that used for 



baking bread; let bake for an hour 
and a half; if medium, one hour, and 
if very small, a half hour. Glace 
the Brioche lightly with a beaten 
egg, spread lightly over the top be- 
fore placing in the oven. Decorate 
with dragees, caramels, etc. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

LAYER CAKES. 
General Directions. 



In making layer cakes, always 
have ready three or four Jelly tins, 
and bake the cake in layers in the 
separate tins for fifteen minutes.- 
Then set to cool, and make the fill- 
ings and place alternately between 
tlie layers, a layer of cake always 
being on top, to admit of icing, if 
desired. 

These directions for arranging the 
filling will hold for almost all layer 
cake. 

Layer Cake. 

To make the layer cake, use any 
good Sponge, Pound or White Cake 
recipes, using three-quarters of the 
proportions of each to make four 
good layers, and increasing in pro- 
portion. Bake in jelly tins for fif- 
teen minutes, and set to cool before 
adding the filling. 

Almond Cake. 

Gateau d'Amandes. 

2 Curs of Sugar. 1 Cup of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonifuls of Butter. 

2 Cups of Flour. Tlie Wliltes of Eggs. 

2 Teaspooufuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful Lemon Extract. 

Proceed to cream the butter and 
sugar. Add the milk, and gradually 
add the flour and the whites of the 
eggs alternately, and beat till light.' 
Add the essence, and bake in jelly 
tins fifteen minutes. Make a filling 
as follows; 

Take two pounds of almonds, 
blanch them, peel and pound to a 
flour. Beat the whites of two eggs 
to a froth with one-half cup of su- 
gar, and spread on top of the bot- 
tom layer of cake as a frosting. Place 
over this a layer of the almonds, 
and then another layer of frosting. 
Add a layer of cake, and then go over 
the same process again till the top 
layer of cake is reached. Sprinkle 



with white sugar or ice neatly, ac- 
cording to taste. 



Banana Layer Cake. 

Gateau de Bananes. 

I 

9 Eggs. % Pound of Flour. 

1'/^ Cups of Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon or Vanilla Extract. 

3 Bananas. 

Prepare four layers of Sponge 
Cake. (See recipe). Slice the ba- 
nanas lengthwise very nicely and lay 
on the bottom layer. Sprinkle with 
a little pow^dered sugar, and then 
spread a little Cream Sauce which 
has been made to the consistency of 
Cream Puff Filling. (See recipe.) 
Over this put on the second layer 
of cake; cover nicely with the ba- 
nanas and the Cream Sauce, and 
proceed thus till the top layer is 
placed over the bananas. Then 
sprinkle with white sugar or Ice, ac- 
cording to taste. 

Chocolale Layer Cake. 

Gateau au Chocolat. 

A Layer Cake. (See recipe). 1 Cup of Pow- 
dered Susar. 
1 Cup of Milk or Water. 4 Ounces of Choc- 
olate. 
The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

Make a layer cake. Boll four 
ounces of chocolate in one cup of 
milk or water. Add one cup of su- 
gar, and let it boil till thick. Spread 
between the layers of cake. Or take 
four ounces of chocolate, melt with 
a little boiling water, just sufficient 
to majce a paste, and work till 
smooth. Beat the whites of two 
eggs to a stiff froth, add four ta- 
blespoonfuls of white sugar, and then 
proceed as in Almond Layer Cake, 
having a layer of chocolate on top. 



287 



Coconnut Layer Cake. 

Gateau au Coco. 
4 Layers of Cake. (See Layer Cake Recipe.) 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 
1 Cup of Powderea Sugar. 2 Cups of Grateil 
Cocoauut. 
White Sugar to Sprinlile. 
Make a good layer cake. Beat the 
■whites of two eggs till very frotliy. 
Add one cup of powdered sugar, and 
beat till very, stiff. Grate the cocoa- 
nut, and ihen proceed as in filling 
the Almond Cake, having a layer of 
the cocoanut on top, sprinkled with 
-white sugar. (See recipe.) 

Cream Layer Cake. 

Gateau a. la Cr&me. 

4 Layers of Sponge Cake. (See recipe). 
The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 
1 Cup of Pulverized. Sugar. 2 Teaspoontulg 
of Cream. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 
Make a layer sponge cake. Pre- 
pare a filling by beating together 
the yolks of two eggs, one cup of 
pulverized sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, and one teaspoonful of 
A'anilla. Beat and mix thoroughly 
to a thick cream, and spread between 
the layers, with a layer of cake on 
top. 

Pig Layer Cake. 

~ Gateau aux Fisues. 

4 Layers of Sponge Cake. (See Eeeipe), 

1 Pound of Chopped Figs. 

1 Cup of Sugar. Va Cup of Water. 

Make a layer cake — any good 

white, sponge or cream. Bake in 

jelly tins. Boil one pound of 

chopped figs, one cup of sugar, and 

one-half cup of water, till the figs 

form a jelly. Spread, when cool, 

between the layers of cake, while 

they are still hot, and proceed as in 

A-lmond Layer Cake. 

Jelly Layer Cake. 

Gateau a, la GelSe. 

t Layers of Cake. (See Recipe Layer Cake). 

1 Cup of Pineapple, Peach, Raspberry 

or any Jelly. 
Make a layer cake, and spread, 
while hot, with any kind of jelly, 
peach, lemon, raspberry, apple, straw- 
berry, or the like. 

Lemon Layer Cake. 

Gateau au Citron. 

The Grated Rind and Juice of 1 Lemon. 

4 Layers of Cake. (See recipe.) 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Egg. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Elour. 

Make a good layer sponge or cup 

cake. Prepare a good layer filling 

of creamed lemon by taking one cup 

of sugar, one egg, the grated rind 

and Juice of one lemon, one teaspoon- 



ful of water and one of flour. Blend 
the sugar, water and flour, and add 
the well-beaten egg. Add the rin(?, 
and juice of the lemon. Boil in a 
bain-marie (a kettle set in a kettle 
of hot water), and let it thicken. 
Spread between the layers, and ice, 
or sprinkle with sugar. 

Orange Layer Cake. 

Gateau a. I'Orange. 

i Layers of Pound or Cup Cake. (See recipe.) 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

3 Cups of Sugar. 

The Grated Rind and Juice of 1 Orange. 

Juice of Half a Lemoc. 

1 Teaspoonful of Grange Extract. 

Make a good layer, pound or cup 
cake. Then make a filling of the 
whites of two eggs, three cups of 
sugar, the grated rind and juice of 
one orange, half a lemon's juice, two 
teaspoonfuls of orange extract. Mix 
all thoroughly, and spread between 
the layers of the cake. 

Pecan Layer Cake. 

Gateau aux Pecanes. 

4 Layers of Cup or Sponge Cake. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 1 Cup of Minced 

Louisiana Pecans. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Lemon Extract. 

Make a good Layer Cake or Cup 
Cake. (See recipe.) Beat the whites 
of three eggs to a stiff froth. Add 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
one cup of minced and pounded pe- 
cans. Add one teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of lemon, and fill the cake, 
leaving a layer of the filling on 
top. This is a typical Creole cake. 
Instead of mincing the pecans for 
the layers, some cooks shell them 
in halves. This is a matter of taste. 

Pineapple Layer Cake. 

Gateau k 1' Ananas. 

% Pound of Flour. 

I'A Cups of Pulverized Sugar. 

9 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon or Pineapple Extract. 

1 Pineapple. 

Prepare four layers of sponge cake. 
Pare the pineapple, being careful to 
cut out all the eyes and the core. 
Grate the fruit very fine. Place a 
layer of the fruit over the bottom lay- 
er of the cake, sprinkle with a little 
powdered sugar and then spread over 
this a little Cream Sauce, which has 
been made to the consistency of 
Cream Puff Filling. (See recipe.) Put 
a second layer of the cake over this, 
cover nicely with the grated pine- 
apple, sugar and Cream Filling, and 
proceed thus till the top layer Is 
placed over the pineapple. Then ice 
or sprinkle with white sugar. 



288 



Raisin Cake. 

Gateau aux Raisins Sees. 
4 Layers of Pound or Cup Cake. (See recipe.) 

^ Pound of Raisins. 14 Pound of Citron. 

H Teaspoonful Eacli of Ground Cloves, Ciu- 

namoD, Allspice and Nutmeg. . 

Frostins to Coyer. 

Make a good Pound or Cup Cake. 
(See recipes.) Bake in tins, taking 
out enoug-h to All three tins. Tiien 
add to the remaining batter one-half 
teaspoonful each of ground cloves, 
allspice, cinnamon and nutmeg, and 
one-quarter pound each of raisins, 
seeded, and citron, chopped very fine. 
Mix thoroughly, and bake in two 
layers. • Place between the other 
layers, alternating with a frosting, 
as in Almond Layer Cake. (See re- 
cipe.) 

RainboTV Cake. 
Gateau a, I'Aro-en-Ciel. 
6 Layers of Sponge or of Pound Cake. 
3 Ounces of Pink Icinjj. 
3 Ounces of Violet Icins. 
3 Ounces of Chocolate Icing. 
3 Ounces of Vanilla Icing. 
3 Ounces of Wliite Icing. 
Make a good layer cake, either 
Pound or Sponge. Prepare the Cream 
Icings (see recipes under Chapter 
Icings for Cakes). Place these be- 
tween the alternate layers in the or- 
der above given. Ice the cake nicely. 
This is a very pretty cake. 



Layer Cake of Fresh Fruits, 

Gateau aux Fruits. 

4 Layers of White or Gold Cake. (See recipes.) 

3 Apples. 2-3 of a Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange or Lemon Extract. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 4 Tablespoonfula 

of Powdered Sugar. 

Make a good White Cake or Gold 
Cake. (See recipes.) Pare and grate 
three apples, and cook them with 
two-thirds of a cup of sugar. When 
they come to a thick jelly, take off 
the stove and flavor with Lemon or 
Orange extract. Take the whites of 
two eggs, beat till very light, and 
then add four tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, and beat till very stiff, 
so stiff that the whites can stand 
alone. Spread a layer of this on 
the top of the bottom layer of cake, 
add a layer of apples, spread another 
layer of frosting, cover with a layer 
of cake, and so continue till all is 
used up. 

Strawberry layer cake, peach rasp- 
berry, apricot, orange, pineapple and 
all fresh fruit layer cakes may be 
made in the same manner. Only 
in the orange and pineapple do not 
cook the pineapple or orange. Simply 
grate four or five oranges, or one 
pineapple, and spread the pineapple 
in layers between the frosting. These 
cakes, properly made, are most deli- 
cious. 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 



DESSERT CAKES. 

Patisserie Pine "Four Dessert. 



Des Bonohees, Macarons, Massepalns, 
Meringues, Melees, Creoles. 

Biscuits aux Amandes et aux Pis- 
taches, Amandes Souffles, etc. 

Perhaps no cuisine can boast of 
such a number of delicious small 
cakes that may serve for desserts, 
both elegant and choice, as the Creole 
cuisine. The native ijngenuity of the 
Creole chefs adapted many of the 
nuts and fruits of Louisiana to va- 
rious forms of sweetened batter, and 
the result of their efforts, handed 
down from generation to genera- 
tion, is given in the following care- 
fully compiled recipes, which, per- 
haps, after our unique "Gum- 
bos," "Courtbouillons," "Bouilla- 
baise," "Ragouts" and "Jambalayas," 
will serve better than any other re- 
cipes to give a true idea of the in- 
finite variety and delight of the prop- 
erly conducted Creole kitchen. They 
will also give a glimpse into the In- 
terior life of the Creole household. 



some of them, especially, being as- 
sociated with pleasant, simple forms 
of "soirees," that, alas! have almost 
passed a:way since the intercourse 
of the old BYench quarter with the 
American city above Canal Street has 
become so general. 

Advice and Instructions for Baking 
These Cakes. 

Use the best materials. It always 
pays in the delicate and perfect taste 
of the cake. ' 

Soda, if not properly dissolved, will 
gi.ve to cakes' and biscuits a bad, 
greenish color. 

Keep the cake out of the draft 
while beating and baking. All the 
following cakes, as, indeed, all cakes, 
should be baked in their own steam, 
that is, keep the door and damper 
shut till the cakes have\ finished 
spreading. Then, if the oven is hot 
enough, you may open the damper. 
This gives the cake a light, bright 



289 



color. Remember meringues and 
other large cakes are not intended 
in these instructions. For meringues 
the oven must never be very hot. 

If you are expert at baiting, you 
may test the heat of the oven simply 
by touching the handle of the oven 
door, but a sure test for beginners 
is to throw a little cornmeal or flour 
in the center of the oven, count ten, 
and if the flour begins to smoke be- 
fore you count the full number the 
oven is too hot, if it smokes at ten 
the oven has the proper heat. 

Never put flavoring extracts di- 
rectly into the flour, or they will 
form lumps. Always put them in 
the wet part of the mixture. 

BOUCH£S. 

These are a delicious form of des- 
sert cakes, and are considered both 
elegant and recherche. Great care 
must be taken to trim the cakes 
evenly and of equal size before at- 
tempting to finish them. Bouchfis 
are made with batter and also with 
almost all our Louisiana fruits. As 
the name indicates Bouchfies are sim- 
ply "a mouthful." 

Boucb^es de Dames. 

S Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 
% Pound of Flour. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 
1 Cup of Currant or Other Jelly for FiUlng. 
Transparent Icing to Garnish. 
Prepare a sponge or cup cake bat- 
ter. (See recipe under chapter 
"Cakes.") Have ready a baking sheet, 
which you will cover w^ith white 
writing paper. Lay the batter out 
on the paper by forcing it through a 
biscuit cutter in rounds that will 
measure one inch and a half in diam- 
eter. They will spread. Dredge the 
surface with white sugar very light- 
ly, and bake them for about fifteen 
minutes or less, until they are a light 
color. Then trim nicely and place 
them upon a wire drainer. Place 
circular pieces of currant or other 
preserves on top, and garnish with 
a meringue or Transparent Icing. 
(See recipe.) Set in the stove or the 
sun to dry, and in ten minutes they 
will be ready to serve. 

BonchSes With Oranges. 

Bouch6s aux Oranges. 
9 Eggs. 1 Pound of Pulverized Sugar. 
% Pound of Flour. 
The Juice of 1 Orange or 1 Tablespoonful 
of Extract. 
1 Cup of Orange Marmalade. 
Transparent Icing to Garnish. 
Prepare the cake drops as directed 
above, with sponge or cup cake bat- 
ter Then place thin slices of or- 
anges cooked in syrup on the Bou- 
chges (see Orange Marmalade), and 
gloss them over with Transparent 



Icing. (See recipe.) Flavor the bat- 
ter of these BouchSes with the zest 
of an orange or with CuraQoa Liq- 
ueur. (See recipe.) 

BouchecB With Peaches. 

Bouchfies aux Peches. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

% Pound of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Noyau Extract. 

1 Cup of Preserved Peaches. 

Transparent Icing to Garnish. 

Prepare the drop cakes as directed 
in "BouchSes de l!)ames." Place halves 
of peaches, preserved in syrup, over 
them (home-made preserves), and 
gloss over with Transparent Icing, 
flavored with Noyau, and slightly 
tinged with Carmine. (See recipe.) 

In preparing all these bouchges, do 
not allow any excess of moisture 
from the ' preserves. The syrup 
should become entirely absorbed into 
the bouchge before you attempt to 
gloss is with the icing. 

Bouchfies with apricots or cher- 
ries are prepared in the same way, 
using, in the former casew a flavor- 
ing of Cedrati liQueur, and in the 
latter Maraschino. 

In making bouch^es with preserves 
use any kind of marmal'ade to stick 
two bouchSes together, and ice the 
surface. 

BonchSes With Pineapples. 

Bouch6es aux Ananas. 

9 Eggs.' 1 Pound of Pulverized Sugar. 
% Pound of Flour. 
1 Cup of Preserved Pineapples. 
Transparent Icing to Garnish. 
Prepare the drop cakes one inch 
and a half in diameter. Place small- 
er slices of thin, preserved pineapple 
upon each, and gloss or glacer over 
with Transparent Icing (see recipe), 
flavoring with pineapple syrup. 

MACAROONS. 

Macarons. 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Butter. 

2 Pouuds of Sifted Sugar. 
The Whites o£ 6 Bgss. 

Blanch or scald the almonds by 
throwing them into a pan of boiling 
water, and letting them remain on 
the fire until you can take one of 
the almonds between your fingers 
and easily push off the skin by push- 
ing it between the finger and thumb. 
Then drain and cool the almonds in 
cold water, and drain again. Rub 
the almond skins or hulls off with 
your hands in a cloth, throw the al- 
monds . in cold water with a little 
salt, wash clean, drain and dry them 
in another cloth. The almonds must 
be cold before you put them into a 
mortar. Then pound them to a pulp 



290 



that will be as smooth as flour. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. 
Add a little of the sugar and a little 
of the eggs as you pound, to pre- 
vent the almonds from becoming 
oily. .Hemember always that the 
paste must be kept firm as you add 
the remainder of the sugar and the 
eggs. Have ready a baking sheet, 
on which you will have placed a but- 
tered piece of wafer paper. Liay the 
macaroons out on this, by dropping 
them from the spoon, in the form of 
a guinea iowl egg. Be very careful 
to place the macaroons about an inch 
apart, so that the balls will not touch 
one another. When the sheet is full, 
pass a wet paste brush gently over 
their surface!. Put them in the oven, 
and bake at a very moderate heat 
till they are a light, delicate brown 
or fawn color. When done, take out 
and set to cool, and take away any 
excess of wafer paper that may cling 
to the edges. Keep in a dry place. 

Cbocnlate Maoaroons. 

Macarons au ' Chocolat. 

12 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 

1% Pounds of Sifted White Sugar., 

4 Ounces of Grated French Chocolate. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. 

Mix all the ingredients together in 
a bowl, and let it form a stiff paste. 
Then lay the macaroons out upon the 
wafer sheet in the form of lady fing- 
ers. Bake at a very moderate heat 
till a light brown, 

Creole Macaroons. 

Macarons a, la Creole. 

12 Ounces of Shredded Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

2 Eggs. 4 Ounces of Wheat Flour. 

The . Zest oif 2 Oranges. 

Blanch and wash and dry the al- 
monds. Then grind (not pound) four 
ounces. Shred twelve ounces, that is. 
After skinning, cut the almonds 
lengthwise into thin shreds by divid- 
ing each almond into at least five or 
six long shreds, or cut them cross- 
wise, and the shreds will be shorter. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
whites separately, and then beat 
them together with the sugar, rub- 
bing till very light and smooth. Add 
the grated zest of two Louisiana 
oranges, that has been rubbed on su- 
gar, and then incorporate all the 
other ingredients. Roll the paste 
out into balls about the size of an 
egg. Place them on buttered wafer 
paper on a baking sheet, set in a 
moderate oven, and bake to a light 
color. 



Plstacliio Macaroons. 

Macaroons aux Pistaches. 

4 Ounces of Bitter Almonds. 
6 Ounces of Shredded Pistachio Kernels or 
Peanuts. 
12 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 
The Whites of 2 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. 
Blanch the almonds and then pound 
them well. Mix with the whites of 
the eggs till thoroughly pulverized. 
Then mix with the shredded pis- 
tachio kernels or peanuts, and stir 
well. Pill a biscuit forcer with the 
preparation, and drop the macaroons 
in round balls about the size of a 
hickory nut upon a wafer sheet of 
paper, and spread upon a baking 
sheet. Bake in a moderate oven till 
very slightly colored. 

Spanish Macaroons. 

Macarons St I'Espagnole. 

8 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

Yolks of 12 Eggs. 

Grated Zest of 2 Oranges. 

1 Teaspoontul of Vanilla. 

Boil the sugar almost to a syrup, 
and then add the pounded almonds, 
and let them simmer gently for five 
minutes add the flavoring and let 
them simmer Ave minutes longer 
over a slow fire of smothered char- 
coal. Stir occasionally, and at the 
end of ten minutes add the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten very light. Then stir 
the paste over the kitchen fire with 
a quickened heat until it becomes 
firm and compact. Remove from the 
flre, and when it is cool roll it in 
your hands, ■which should be slight- 
ly greased with oil of sweet al- 
monds. Lay them out in small cakes 
on wafer paper, spread on a baking 
sheet, and bake at a quick heat. 

CROftUIGJTOLES. 

8 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Bitter Almonds. 

Whites of 4 Eggs. 
1^ Pounds of Fine Sugar. 

Scald, skin and wash and dry the 
almonds, as directed in "Macarons," 
and then pound them into a pulp 
adding the whites of the egss grad- 
ually, remembering always that they 
must be beaten to a stiff froth. Then 
work in the sugar, and you will have 
a firm paste. Drop these in small 
balls upon wafer paper, spread upon 
a baking sheet of tin or iron, in 
distinct and separate rows. Pass a 
little brush, moistened with water, 
lightly on their surface, and bake in 
a very slack oven till a very light 
color. 



291 



PETITS FOURS. 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Butter. 

2 Pounds of Sifted Flour. 
The Whites of 8 Eggs. 
Royal Icing to Garnish, 

Prepare the paste as above di- 
rected, keeping it somewhat stiffier 
and firmer, however. Add two whites 
of eggs of Royal Icing (see recipe), 
and work both together till thor- 
oughly incorporated. Pill the biscuit 
forcer, and push the macaroons 
through upon buttered wafer paper, 
as directed. 

Petits Pours must be baked in a 
very moderate oven. Otherwise the 
excessive heat will cause the maca- 
■ roons to run into one another, and 
produce a useless mass. The Royal 
Icing necessitates the moderate oven. 
The Petits Pours are then put In 
pretty plaited paper cases. 

MASSEPAINS (Plain). 

Massepains (simple). 

12 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 
1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. 
1% Pounds of Sifted Sugar. 
Scald, skin, wash and dry the 
almonds. Then pound them to a flour 
in a mortar with the whites of the 
eggs. When well-pulverized, beat 
well. Mix In the sugar by pounding 
it, and then take up the paste and 
put it in a bowl. Beat well, keeping 
it very firm. If soft, add sugar, to 
render firmer. Strew the wafer sheet, 
spread on a baking sheet, with white 
pulverized sugar. Cut the masse- 
pains into lengths of two or three 
inches, and twist them into fancy 
shapes, diamonds, hearts, rings, tri- 
angles, etc., on the wafer sheet. 
Then set in the oven, and bake 
to a very light color. 

Massepains SouflI£s. 

12 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 

'1% Pounds of Sifted Sugar. 

1 Ounce at Vanilla Sugar. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

1 White of Egg Iloyal IcInR. 

Prepare the paste exactly as above, 

and when you take it up in the bowl 

add the Royal Icing, keeping the 

paste firm. Spread the massepains 

upon wafer sheets, using only the 

ring shape, and bake in a slack oven 

till a very light color. 

Strawberry Massepains. 

Massepains a. la Praise. 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 
8 Ounces of Sugar. 
6 Ounces of Crushed Strawberries. 
Pound the almonds, and then pro- 
ceed as In plain Massepains, adding 



the strawberries after you will have 
strained them through a ^ieve. 

Any kind of fruits or marmalades 
may be used in this manner for 
Fruit Massepains. 

SOUFFLfiS. 

2 Pounds of Powdered White Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 
1 Ounce of Orange Flower Water. 

. To two pounds of powdered sugar 
add the whites of two eggs and one 
ounce of Orange Flower Water. Make 
of all a firm, consistent paste, add- 
ing more sugar, if necessary. Roll 
out on a sheet of paper, sprinkled 
with sugar, and cut into little pieces, 
which you will form into balls about 
the size of a nut. Place them on a 
wafer sheet on a baking sheet at 
a distance of two inches, so that 
they will not touch one another, 
should they run. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Almonds Souffles. 

Amandes Soufflfis. 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

The White of 1 Egg. 

12 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Blanch, skin, wash and dry one 
pound of sweet almonds, and then 
cut them into very small pieces. Add 
the white of one egg, beaten to a 
thick froth, and twelve ounces of 
powdered sugar. When well- mixed 
drop upon sheets of white paper, 
and bake to a very light color in a 
moderate oven. 

Pistachio Souffles, 

SouflUgs aux Pistaches. 

10 Ounces of Pistachio Kernels or Peanuts. 
1^ Pounds of Fine Sugar. 

Whites of 3 Eggs. 

4 Drops Essence of Koses. 

2 Whites of Eggs of Royal Icing. 

(See Recipe Royal Icing.) 

If you cannot procure the Pistachio 

Kernels, use Peanuts, which are 

called "Pistaches" by the Creoles. 

Scald, skin, wash and dry the pis- 
tachios or peanuts. Pound them with 
two ounces of sugar, adding occa- 
sionally some of the whites of the 
eggs, until reduced to a pulp. Then 
add all the sugar, gradually working 
it into the paste on a marble slab, 
being careful to have the slab and 
the hands very clean. Roll out 
paste with sugar to the thickness of 
a Quarter of an inch on the slab. 
Spread the icing evenly over, and cut 
into various fanciful shapes. Place 
the cakes o,n the sheet wafer or lay 
on baking sheet, and bake in a slow 
heat to a very light color. . 



292 



Rose SoufH^s. 

Souffles a la Rose. 

2 Pounds ■ Powdered White Suear. 

The Whites of 2 Egss. 

1 Ounce of Orange Flower Water. 

A Pinch of Carmine Powder. 

To two pounds of powdered sugar 
add the whites of two eggs and 
one ounce of Orange Flower Water 
and a little pinch of Carmine Pow- 
der. Make of all a firm, consistent 
paste, adding more sugar, if neces- 
sary. Boll out on a sheet of paper, 
sprinkled with sugar, then cut the 
paste into little pieces, which you 
will form into balls about the size 
of a nut. Place them on a wafer 
sheet on a baking sheet at a dis- 
tance of two inches apart, so that 
they will not touch one another, 
should they run. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Almond and Peanut Biscuit. 

Biscuits aux Amandes et aux Pis- 

taches. 

4 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Pistachio Kernels or Peanuts. 

4 Eggs. 8 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Blanch, peel and pound the al- 
monds and pistachio kernels or pea- 
nuts in a mortar till finely pulver- 
ized, adding the white of an egg, to 
keep the almonds from turning oily. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
froth, and then add the yolks, beaten 
separately to a cream with the sugar. 
Beat well, and incorporate thorough- 
ly. Add four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
sifted well, and mix well. Place in 
small cakes on wafer sheets of pa- 
per, and bake in a moderate oven 
till a very light color. 

Ciiocoiate Biscuits. 

Biscuits au Chocolat. 

6 Fresh Creole Eggs. 
1 Ounce of Powdered French Chocolate. 
4 Ounces of Flour. 
10 Ounces of Pulverized Sugar. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
BUgar to a cream. Add the choco- 
late, and mix well. Then add the 
flour, alternating with the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Add 
one tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract, 
and bake upon wafer sheets in small 
cakes to a light color. 

Cinnamon Biscuits, 

Biscuits a. la Canelle. 

6 Fresh Creole Eggs. 

1 Ounce of Powdered French Chocolate. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

10 Ounces of Pulverized Sugar. 

Ground Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cinnamon Extract. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
the cinnamon to a cream; Add the 
chocolate, and mix well. Then add 



"the flour, alternating with the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Add one tablespoonful of Vanilla Ex- 
tract, and bake upon wafer sheets 
in small cakes to a light color. 

Citron Biscuits. 

Biscuits au Citron, 

6 Fresh Creole Eggs. 

The Zest of 1 Citron. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

12 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Beat the eggs and sugar to a 

cream, add the flour gradually, and 

the Juice of the lemon and citron 

zest, and beat well. Bake on paper 

sheets in the form of small wafers, 

very thinly spread, in a moderate 

oven to a light color. 

Creole Biscuits. 

Biscuits a la Creole. 

4 Ounces of Grated Lemon., 
4 Ounces of Orange Flower Marmalade. 
4 Ounces of Apricot or Peach Marmalade. 
The Whites of 4 Engs. 
Mix the fruits and lemon thor- 
oughly together, and then add three 
ounces of white pulverized sugar 
and the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Place tbe mixture in 
small cakes on white paper, and bako 
lightly. Then cover with sugar 
beaten with the white of an egg, in 
meringue form, and bake to a light 
brown. 

Filbert Biscuits. 
Biscuits aux Avelines. 

4 Ounces of Sweet Almonds, 

4 Ounces of Filberts. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

8 Ounces of Powdered Sugar, 

Blanch, peel and pound the al- 
mond and .filbert kernels in a mortar 
till finely pulverized, adding the 
white of an egg, to keep the al- 
monds from turning oily. Beat the 
whites of three eggs to a froth, 
and then add the yolks, beatSn sep- 
arately to a cream with the sugar, 
incorporate thoroughly, and beat 
well. Add four tablespoonfuls of 
flour, sifted well, and mix well. 
Place in small cakes on vrafer sheets 
of paper, and bake in a moderate 
oven till a very light color. 

Lemon Biscuit. 

Biscuit au Citron. 

6 FresE Creole Eggs. 

The Zest of 1 Lemon. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

12 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon or 1 Tablespoonful of 

Lemon Extract. 

Beat the eggs and sugar to a 

cream, add the flour gradually, and 

the juice and zest of a lemon, and 

beat well. Bake on paper sheets in 



293 



the form of small wafers, very thinly 
spread, in a moderate oven, to a light 
color. 

Oranse Biscuits. 
Biscuits a, rOrange. 

6 Fresli Creole Eggs. 
The Zest of 1 Orange. 
4 Ounces of Flour, 
12 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
Tlie Juice of 1 Oranae. 
Beat the eggs and sugar to a 
cream, add the 'flour gradually, and 
the juice and zest of the orange, and 
beat well. Bake on paper sheets, 
in the form of small wafers, very 
thinly spread, in a moderate oven, 
to a light color. 

Vanilla Biscuits. 

Biscuits k la Vanille. 

6 Fresh Creole Eggs. 
1 Ounce of Vanilla Sugar. 
4 Ounces of Flour. 
10 Ounces of Pulverized Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
the sugar to a cream. Add the choc- 
olate, and mix well. Then add the 
flour, alternating with the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Add 
one tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract, 
and bake upon wafer sheets in small 
cakes to a light color. 

Fraseati Croquantes. 

Croquantes Fraseati. 

8 Ounces of Flour. 
6 Ounces of Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 
2 Whole Eggs and 3 Yolks. 
1 Ounce Aniseed. 
Break the eggs into a bowl, and 
beat light, and add the sugar and 
beat very light; add the almonds, 
pounded to a powder, and the ani- 
seed. Beat all together till well 
incorporated. Add the flour and 
beat thoroughly. Have a marble 
slab clean and dry. Roll the paste 
out on the slab in the form of a 
long, thick rope. Then take a knife 
and cut it Into cieces about the size 
of a guinea egg. Roll each between 
the palms of your hands, and shape 
them into oval balls. Have a but- 
tered sheet of paper on a baking 
sheet. Make a slight incision into 
each cake by pressing the back of 
the knife across the surface. Brush 
the egg over them, and sprinkle 
lightly with granulated sugar, and 
bake in a moderate heat to a light 
color. 

Creole Wafers. 
Gaufres 3. la Cr§ole. 

9 Ounces of Flour. 

i Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 8 Eggs. 

1 Wineglassful of Noyau. 

1 Pint Whipped Cream. 

] TaBlespoonful of Vanilla. 

A Pinch of Salt. 

Beat the sugar and yolks of the 

eggs to a cream. Add the Noyau 



and salt. Vanilla and flour, and in- 
corporate thoroughly till light. Then 
add the whites of the eggs and tho 
cream. Mix all lightly together, tak- 
ing great care that all are well- 
mixed. Bake very, very light in wa- 
fer irons. The irons should be heated 
over a clear charcoal Are, and when 
hot brush inside with a little clari- 
fied butter. A large spoonful of but- 
ter should be poured into the under- 
sheet of the wafer irons, then close 
in, and bake to a golden brown color. 
Sprinkle lightly with sugar. These 
wafers are delicious, handed around 
witli ices. 

Ginger "Wafers. 
Gaufres au Gingembre. 

1 Large Spoon of Ground Ginger. 
4 Ounces of 'Molasses. 

8 Ounces of Flour. 

8 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. ' 

Whites of 4 Eggs. 

Vi Pint of Cream. 

1 Wineglassful of Brandy. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
cream and add it to the flour and 
milk, salt and sugar, molasses and 
ginger. "Work all well together very 
light in a bowl, until you have a 
smooth batter. Add the brandy and 
Ginger Extract and beat vigorously 
ten minutes longer. Have ready the 
"wafer irons and a clear charcoal fire. 
Brush the irons "with butter and 
pla.ce the "wafers within and bake on 
both sides to a light fawn color. 

Frencli "Wafers. 

Gaufres Frangaises. 

8 Ounces of Flour. 

8 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 

Whites of 4 Eggs. 

Vi Pint of Cream. 

1 Wineglassful of Brandy. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. ■ 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
cream and add to the flour, milk, 
salt and sugar. Work all together 
very light in a bowl, until you have 
a very smooth batter. Add the bran- 
dy and beat vigorously ten minutes 
longer. Have ready tHe wafer irons 
and a clear charcoal fire. Brush the 
irons with butter and place the wa- 
fers within and bake on both sides 
to a light brown color. If desired, 
the wafers may be rolled into fancy 
shapes. 

SpanlsU W^afers. 
Gaufres Espagnoles 

9 Ounces of Flour. 

2 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 
% Pint of Chocolate Water. 

12 Drops of Essence of Vanilla. 2 Eggs. 

2 Gills of Cream. 

Prepare the chocolate water by 

dissolving "well two ounces of French 

chocolate in a half pint of boiling 



294 



water. Place the sugar, vanilla, 
eggs and cream in a pan, work all 
vigorously into a smooth, light bat- 
ter, add the cold Chocolate Water, 
beat all together well for ten minutes 
longer. Then bake the wafers, as 
directed in recipe for French "Wa- 
fers, and curl in the form of cornu- 
copias while still warm and able to 
retain impressions. 

Cream Puffs. 

Choux a. la CrSme. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

Va Cup of Butter. 

i Eggs. 1 Cup of Wafer. 

Set the water to boil, and while 
boiling, stir in. the butter. Then 
add the flour, and stir continually 
till the paste leaves the sides of the 
saucepan. Set the mixture to cool. 
When cool, stir one after another, 
the three eggs in, without beating 
them. After adding the last egg, 
beat very vigorously for about four 
minutes; then drop by tablespoonfuls 
on buttered tins, and set in the oven 
to bake from twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Watch carefully so that they 
will not burn. When cold make an 
opening inside, through the side of 
the paste, with a sharp knife, and fill 
It with the following custard: 
1 Cup of Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 
3 Eggs. 1 Teaspoontul of Vanilla. 
1 Tablespoouiful of Cornstarch. 

.Hub the cornstarch in a little water 
and add it to the boiling milk. Let 
it boil three minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Beat the eggs, without sep- 
arating, and the sugar till light, 
and add to the boiling milk. Add the 
vanilla, stirring all well. Fill the 
cakes and set away to cool. 

Chocolate £clairs. 

Eclairs du Chocolat. 

1 Cup of Flower. 1 Cup of Water. 
4 Eggs. 1^ Cup ot Water. 
2 Ounces of Chocolate. 
4 Ounces of Powdered Sufiar. 
Make a Cream Puff Paste as above. 
Put into a tube or a pastry bag and 
press out upon well-buttered tins in 
the shape of Lady Fingers. This will 
give the iiclairs the right shape, 
making them about five inches long. 
Set them to bake in a Quick oven 
twenty or thirty minutes. If the 
oven is ot the right temperature, and 
the cakes are properly baked, they 
will be hollow within and very 
daintily crusted without. Fill in 
with a mixture made by melting two 
ounces of chocolate and four ounces 
of powdered sugar, and set away to 
cool. Tou may ice by dipping one 
end into the icing, and then setting 
away to dry. The ificlalrs may be 
filled with preserved fruits, Orange 



Icing, Whipped Cream, or any mar- 
malade. 

Pineapple ficlatrs. 

:ficlairs a, I'Ananas. 

1 Cup of Flour. 1 Cup ot Water. 

4 Eggs. % Cup ot Water. 

2 Ounces of Preserved Pineapple or 

Pineapple Mousse. 
Pineapple Siclairs are made, in the 
same manner as Chocolate Eclairs 
(see recipe), only they are filled in 
with preserved pineapple or Pineap- 
ple Mousse. 

Cup Cake. 

P6tits Gateaux. 

1 Cup ot Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 
4 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Sour Cream. 

3 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Brandy. 
1 Tablespoonjful of Hose or Vanilla Extract. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the well-beaten yolks of 
the eggs, and then add the cream. 
Mix thoroughly, and sift in gradu- 
ally the flour, beating thoroughly. 
Add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth, and the brandy and 
rose water. Now dissolve a half 
teaspoonful of soda in a little sweet 
milk and add, being very careful that 
there are no lumps in the soda. Beat 
well for a few minutes and bake at 
once, in small tins or cups, which 
you will grease well with butter and 
only half fill with the cake batter. 

Jelly Cake. 

Gateau aux Confitures. 

1 Cup ot Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

4 Cups of Flour. 

1 Cup of Sour Cream. 

3 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful ot Brandy. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

3 Ounces of Currant, Grape or any Jelly 
Desired. 
Prepare the batter exactly as for 
Cup Cake or Sponge Cake, butter 
the small tins and pour in the batter 
in such thin layers as to allow the 
cakes to be just a half inch thick 
when baked. Let them bake for a 
few minutes to a light brown, and 
" as they are taken from the oven lay 
them on the table and spread a layer 
of Currant or Grape Jelly between; 
then add alternate layers of cake and 
jelly, reserving the prettiest cakes 
for the top layers. Do not put jelly 
on this. Ice or powder with sifted 
sugar. 

Ctuecn Cake. 

Gateau a. la Reine. 

1 Found of Flour. 

4 Ounces of Susar. 

1 Pound of Currants. 1 Pound ot Butter. 

1 Teacnptul of Cream. 8 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful ot Rose Water. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream, and then add the well-beaten 



295 



yolks of the eggs. Now add the 
cream, and then one-half of the 
flour, and next one-half of the whites 
of the egg-s, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Add the remainder of the flour. Into 
which you will have dredged the 
currants that have been well-washed 
cleansed and picked and dried; mix 
thoroughly, and add the remainder 
of the whites and the rose water. 
Beat as you would a pound cake. 
Then pour into small, buttered tins 
and bake immediately to a light 
brown. 

Tea Cakes. 
Gateau de Th6. 

1 Pound of Flour. 

% Pound oe Butter. 4 Eggs. 

6 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

V4 Cup of Sour Milk. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Add the well-beaten eggs, 
and incorporate thoroughly. Add 
the milk, and then gradually add the 
flour, making a light soft dough. Mix 
all well together, and roll the paste 
out very thin. Cut into rounds or 
squares, and put into a slightly but- 
tered baking pan. Bake to a bright 
yellow, and serve as needed. Some 
brush the tops of the cakes with 
beaten eggs, and sprinkle the tops 
with raisins or currants, well seeded 
and washed and dried. 

Cocoannt Fingers. 

Biscuits a, la Cuiller au Coco. 

4 Ounces of Butter. 
4 Onuces of Sugar, 
3 Eggs. 2 Ounces of Flour. 
4 Ounces of Grated Cocoanut. 
Beat the butter, sugar and eggs 
together for five minutes, blending 
thoroughly. Then add the flour, and 
Immediately after the grated cocoa- 
nut. Beat well, and have ready but- 
tered tins. Divide the mixture into 
fingers of about four or five inches 
in leng-th. bake in a moderately 
quick oven ' for thirty minutes, and 
when cool dust with powdered sugar. 

Lady Fingers. 

Biscuits a, la Cuiller. 

% of a Pound of Flour. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Wliite Sugar. 

5 Eggs. 

Put the sugar and the yolks of the 
eggs into a bowl and beat thoroughly 
till very light. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth and add the 
flour. Mix well and add immediately 
the whites of the eggs. Beat all to- 
gether gently for a few minutes, and 
the preparation is ready for baking. 

Have ready a long sheet of paper, 
spread on a baking tin. Take a ta- 
blespoon and drop the batter along 
the paper, in lengths of four or five 



inches, being careful to leave an 
empty space of an inch between each 
cake; set to bake in a very moderate 
oven. The cakes must not spread or 
rise. If they rise, the oven is too 
hot, and if they spread, you may be 
sure the oven is too cool. Bake to 
a very light brown, for twenty min- 
utes, in a moderate oven. 



Petits 



Ginger Xuts. 

Gateaux au Gingembre. 



2 Pounds of Flour. 2 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Molasses. 

1^ Pound of Brown Sugar. 

% Pound of Butter. A Pinch of Salt. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Ginger. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Soda. 
% Pint of Mllli or Water. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream; work in the flour and mix 
well; add the molasses and mix well. 
Then add the milk, into which you 
will have dissolved the soda thor- 
oughly, and beat well; add the ginger 
and continue working lightly till 
thoroughly mixed. Then roll out and 
cut in various fanciful shapes and 
bake to a light brown. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Gateaux Sees au Gingembre. 

2 Cups of Molasses. 

1 Cup of Lard or Butter. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

yit Cup of Sour Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger. 

2 Eggs. 2% Teaspoonfuls of Soda. 

Flour Sufficient to Roll Thick. 

Mix all the ingredients as above, 
only making th6 batter slightly 
stiflEer, and cut into, fancy shapes 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Jumbles. 

Mel6e-Cr6ole. 

1 Pound of Butter. 

% Pound of Flour. 4 Eggs. 

14 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Hose Water. 

^ Grated Nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Add the eggs, thoroughly 
beaten, and the add the Rose "Water 
and the nutmeg. Gradually add the 
flour, and beat well. Beat till very 
light before adding the 'flour. Dust 
a paper on a baking sheet with su- 
gar, instead of flour, and roll ou.t 
the paste to about one-eighth of an 
inch in thickness. Then use a small 
cutter with a round center, and take 
the centers oiit, thus forming pretty 
rings. Bake. in a moderate oven till 
a light brown. Take them out and 
sift powdered sugar over them. 



296 



Madeleines, 

5 Eggs. % Pound of Powdered .Sugar. 

% Pound of Sifted Flour. 

% Pound of Butter. 

Washed and Drained. 

^ Teaspoonful of Vaniila. 

Grated Kind of a Lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream and add the yolks of the eggs, 
the lemon rind and the vanilla, and 
beat till very, very light. Then add 
the flour, beating constantly, and 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Turn into buttered tins, 
and bake in a. quick oven till a deli- 
cate brown. Serve cold. These are 
delicious supper cakes. 

Pop-Overs. 

Vitement Fait. 

1 Pint of Milk. 
1 Pint of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder, 

1 TeasDoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs sep- 
arately till very light and fro'thy. 
Stir in the unskimmed milk and the 
flour that has been twice sifted with 
the baking powder. Add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; 
pour the mixture into buttered cake 
tins; bake in a Quick oven till a 
light brown, and serve either hot 
or cold. 

Anise DTops. 

Gateau d'Anis. 

I 3 Cups of Sugar. 6 Eggs. 

1 Quart of Fiour. 
% Teaspoonful at Essence of Anise, 

Beat the sugar and eggs for about 
half an hour. Add the flour gradu- 
ally, and the essence. Beat well. 
Have ready buttered sheets of tin, 
and drop the mixture from the spoon, 
and bake to a delicate brown. 

Spice Drops, 

Biscuits d'fipices. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

% Cup of Sweet Milk. 

3 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Molasses. 

3 Tablespoonfuis of Baking Powder. 

1 Ground Nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Add the molasses and the 
milk. Blend well, add the spices, and 
the nutmeg and lemon extract, and 
then add the flour, sifted with the 
baking powder. Beat 'well for fifteen 
minutes, and then drop on tins lined 
with buttered paper. Bake in a 
quick oven to a delicate brown. 



Creole Cookies. 

Biscuits a, la Creole. 

1 Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cloves and 
Cinnamon. 
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 
2 Cups of Powdered Sugar. 
1 Cup of Sweet Milk. 
The Whites of 4 Eggs. 
] Teaspoonful o.f Lemon Extract. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
Flour Sufficient to Make a Soft Batter. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream; add the milk and the baking 
powder, and gradually add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat the batter hard for ten min- 
utes, after adding sufficient flour to 
make a nice soft batter. Pour into 
baking tins, and bake to a delicate 
brown. When cold ice with Plain 
Icing. (See recipe.) These are very- 
dainty and nice. 

Lemon Cookies. 

Biscuits au Citron. 

6 Eggs. ] Cup of Butter. 

3 Cups of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and but- 
ter to a cream. Add the sugar, and 
beat well. Add the extract of lemon, 
and then the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Add sufficient 
flour to make a nice dough, just stiff 
enough to mold, and then roll thin, 
and bake in a quick oven to a very 
light brown. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Biscuits a, la MSlasse. 

2 Cups of Molasses. 
1 Cup of Butter. 

2 Eggs. 2 Teaspoonfuls of Soda. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Ginger. 
% Teaspoonful of Cloves. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cloves. 

Melt the molasses. Beat the but- 
ter and sugar to a cream, and add, 
mixing in the soda, dissolved in a ta- 
blespoonful of boiling water. Add 
the ginger and the ground cloves. 
Take off the fire, and beat till cool. 
Then add the eggs, beaten well, and 
flour sufficient to make a nice, soft 
dough, just stiff enough to roll. Cut 
into small cakes, and bake in a quick 
oven to a delicate brown,- 

MURIXGUBS. 

In order to make meringues prop- 
erly one ' should have a meringue 
board of well-seasoned hard wood. 
This board should be cut with round- 
ed corners, and of a size convenient 
to the oven. It ought to be about ■ 
one and a half inches in thickness. 
While baking. Meringues must al- 
ways remain soft underneath. To 
accomplish this, dampen the board 
thoroughly with water before plac- 



297 



ing the bands of paper upon It. In 
this way the Mering-ues are pre- 
vented from receiving heat in suf- 
pcient volume to render them hard 
underneath. 

Creole ]\lerin£;ues. 

Meringues a. la Crfiole. 

1 Pint of Sifted White Sugar. 
The Whites of 12 Eess. 
1 Tablespoontul of Vanillii. 

Beat the whites to a stiff, snowy 
troth, and then gradually add the su- 
gar and vanilla, beating until the 
mixture is stiff enough to cut with 
a knife. Then cut same stout sheets 
ol foolscap paper into strips measur- 
ing at least two inches in width, or, 
if you wish to make the meringues 
larger, simply place the sheet of pa- 
per, slightly buttered, on the table. 
Take a tablespoon and gather up 
the meringue mixture as nearly as 
possible in tne shape of an egg, and 
working, it towards the side of the 
bowl to give it this shape, and then 
drop slopingly from the spoon upon 
the strips of paper at a distance 
«f at least an inch apart. Draw the 
«dge of the spoon very sharply 
around the edge of the meringue, to 
give it a smooth, round shape, re- 
sembling an egg. When all the rows 
are filled, sprinkle sifted sugar over 
them, and let them remain in this 
state for about three minutes. Then 
take hold of the strips at either end, 
and shake lightly, to remove all ex- 
cess of sugar. Place the strips in 
rows about one inch apart on the 
wet board or baking tin (the board 
is much better), and as soon as the 
sugar begins to dissolve slightly on 
their surface, push them into the 
oven, which must be at a very mod- 
crate heat, and bake them a very 
light fawn color. Watch constantly, 
that they may not burn. When the 
meringues are done, remove each one 
very carefully and separately from 
the paper. Then use a small dessert 
spoon. If you desire to fill the me- 
ringues, scoop out the soft white 
part, and, with the outer side of the 
bowl of the spoon, smooth the inter- 
ior of the meringues. Then place 
them with the rounded side down- 
ward on the baking tin in the oven 
to dry for a few minutes. When 
thoroughly crisp, without browning. 
place them between sheets of paper 
in a dry place. When using me- 
ringues for desserts, etc., garnish the 
interior with whipped cream, beaten 
to a stiff froth, and flavored with 
vanilla, orange, lemon, orange flower 
•water, or any kind of fancy liqueur, 
stick the two halves together lightly 
and serve. Meringues may be kept 
tor some time in thir dry shell state, 
and filled when ready to use. In mak- 
ing them for immediate family Use, 



simply drop the mixture by spoonfuls 
On buttered paper, dust with the 
sugar, wait for three minutes, fan 
or blow off all excess of sugar, and 
then place them in a very moderate 
oven and bake to a light brown. 
When dry, carefully remove the me- 
ringue from the paper, after they 
have cooled, brush the bottoms 
slightly with the white of an egg, 
beaten to a froth, stick two me- 
ringues together, put away to dry,, 
and serve when needed. 

Creamed-Iced Meringues. 

Meringues a, la Cr&me Glacfie. 

1 Pound of Sifted White Sugar. 

The Whites of 12 Ebks. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

3 Ounces of Stiff Whipped Cream. 

% Cup of Transparent Icing. 

Cream-Iced Meringues should be 
made much smaller than the ordi- 
nary Meringues — about the size of a 
bird's egS- Proceed as above, and 
fill with stiff, whipped cream, taking 
great care when filling that none of 
the cream shall ooze from between 
the two halves of the l^eringues af- 
ter they have been stuck together. 
If it should, wipe it off very care- 
fully. When well-fllled, hold each 
Meringue separately on a silver fork, 
and dip them all over in "Trans- 
parent Icing" (see recipe), and let 
them dry. These Meringues are de- 
licious desserts. ' 

Cream-Iced Meringues With Pre- 
serves. 

Meringues Glacfes aux Confitures. 

1 Pound of Sifted White Sugar. 
The Whites of 12 Egss. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. 
3 Ounces of Currant, Orange 6r Any 
Preserves. 
Vi Cup of Transparent Icing. 
Prepare as in Meringues a, la Cre- 
ole, or as above, only spread some 
preserves thinly inside the Meringues 
before garnishing them with the 
cream, and then ice with Transpar- 
ent Icing. (See reipe Transparent 
Icing.) 

Biscuits GlacSs aux Confitures. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

% Pound Flour. 

The .Tuice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Cup of Jam of Any Kind Desired. 

These are , elegant cakes and en- 
hance the most fashionable dessert. 
Make a sponge cake or cup cake 
(see recipes), and bake on a baking 
sheet about three-quarters of an inch 
in thickness. When cold, cut up Into 
fanciful shapes, trim the edges neat- 
ly with a very sharp knife, and be 
careful, to brush off the least par- 
ticle of crumbs that may adhere; 
carefully spread the upper part and 



298 



sides of the biscuit with apricot, 
peach, raspberry or any jam. Then 
hold one at a time on a silver fork, 
very carefully, and with a spoon 
pour over. Transparent Chocolate 
Icing, around the sides and over 
the surface of the biscuit. Then 
carefully lay it upon a wire tray, 
resting upon a baking sheet. Dry 
thej biscuit in a very moderate oven 
for about five minutes. 

Marbled GlacCes. 

Biscuits Panaohgs aux ^Jonfltures. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

^ Pound of Flour. 



Ibe Juice of 1 Lemon. 
1 Cmr of Mixed Preserved Fruits. 

Prepare the cake as directed in the 
preceding recipe. Then place on the 
baking sheet. Drop different-sized 
small bits of fine preserves, orange, 
apricot, damson, red currant, etc., on 
the biscuit, and spread smoothly, so 
as to form a beautifully marbled 
pattern. Then cut out the cakes in 
any fanciful design. Proceed as 
above to cover with Transparent 
Icing, and dry in a moderate oven 
for five minutes. 



CHAPTER Xli 



ICINGS FOR CAKES. 



Glaces pour Gateaux. 



Read carefully the directions given 
for icing cakes in the beginning of 
the chapter on "Cakes." (See re- 
^cipe.) Then proceed to make icings 
according to taste, as follows: 

Plain Iclngr, 

Glace. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lemon Juice. 

1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

Essence of Rose, Orange or Lemon. 
Beat the whites of the eggs, and 
sift in gradually the sugar, beating 
all the while, using good judgment as 
to sufficient quantity, and adding in 
the beginning a tablespoonful of 
Rose or Lemon Essence or Orange 
Flower Water. Beat very, very light, 
till sufficient almost to stand alone. 
Have ready in another bowl a little 
lemon juice, and begin to lay on the 
icing In a thin coat over the cake 
with a knife, occasionally dipping 
the knife into the lemon juice, to 
make a nice, smooth icing. When it 
is covered with this coat, set in the 
oven or the sun to harden, when it 
will be ready for the next coat. Add 
another coating as before. This coat 
will be much smoother and white" 
than the first. If you wish to make 
ornamental icing it will be necessary 
to have piping tubes. (See General 
Directions for Icing.) 

Almond Icing. 

Glace aux Amandes. 

3 Cups of Sugar. 

1 Pound of Almonds, felanched and PoundeJ 

to a Paste. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

Beat the eggs, stir in the almonds 

and sugar, and then proceed to ice 



according to general directions. (See 
above or recipe.) 

Cbocolate Icing. 

, Glace au Chocolat. 

2 Ounces of Chocolate. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Melt two ounces of chocolate in a 
little boiling water. Add two cups 
.sugar, and stir till smooth. Stir in 
the well-beaten whites of three eggw 
and one teaspoonful of Vanilla Ex- 
tract, and proceed as in Plain Icing. 
(See recipe.) 

Orange or liCmon leins. 

Glace a, I'Orange ou au Citron. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon or Orange. 

For Lemon and Orange Icings 
make a Plain Icing, stirring in at the 
start the juice of one lemon or one 
orange, and proceeding as in Plain 
Icing. (See recipe.) 

Orange Transparent Icing. 

Glace Transparente a. I'Orange. 

% Pound of Fine White Sugar. 

Halt the White of 1 Egg. 

The Zest of 1 Orange. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Essence or 

Orange Juice. 

An Orange Transparent Icing Is 
made by flavoring with a little or- 
ange sugar, rubbing against the zest 
of the orange, or tinging with Saf- 
fron and flavoring with Cuvagoa. 



299 



Colored Transparent Iclngr- 

Glace Transparente a, la Rose, 

a, la Violette. .Etn. 

% *onna -01 'Wne "White Sugar^ 

Half the White of .1 Egg. 

Flavoring and Coloring According to Taste. 

Green Icing is made by using the 
Extract of Spinach and flavoring 
with Cedratl; a Rose Pink by flav- 
oring with the Essential Oil of 
Roses and adding a few drops of 
Cochineal, and a Violet Icing by 
flavoring with Syrup of Violet. Pro- 
ceed as in Plain Icing. 

"Wine Icing:. 

Glace au Vln. 

The -Whites of 2 Ebes. 

1 Pound of White Sugar. 

1 Gill of Sherry or Madeira Wine. 

Proceed exactly as in Lemon or 

Orange Icing, only adding instead 

one gill of good Sherry or Madeira 

wine. Then proceed as in Plain 

Icing. 

Water Icing. 

Glace a. I'Eau. 

2 Cups of Susar. 
A Pinch of Cream of Tartar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Yanilla, Peach or Straw- 
herry Extract, 
Take two cups of sugar and a 
small pinch of Cream of Tartar. 
Stir with just enough water to make 
a thick paste, and. flavor with Peach 
or Strawberry Extract. If Straw- 
berry is used, add a teaspoonful of 
Cochineal. Beat well, and, if not 
stiff enough, add more sugar, and 
proceed as in Plain Icing. 

FROSTING. 

Glace Neigeuse. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 
2 Cups of Pulverized Sugar. 

M Cup of Cornstarcli. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Milk. 
Take the whites of two eggs, two 
cups of pulverized sugar, and one- 
half a cup of cornstarch. Blend the 
cornstarch with a little) milk, to 
make a thick paste, add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten light, and tlie 
pulverized sugar. Beat all to a stiff 
froth, and frost the cake while hot. 

Cream Frosting. 

Glace Neigeuse a, la. CrSme. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

2 Cups of Pulverized Sugar. 

4 Tfblespoonfula of Kich Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

For a Cream Frosting, proceed ex- 
actly as above, only omit the corn- 
starch, and add an equal measure 
of rich cream, and flavor with Va- 
nilla Extract. Boil the cream. 



Orgeat Paste or Icing, 

Orgeatfi. 

1 Tound of Peeled AlmondL'. 

1 Pound of Sugar, 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water. 

To one pound of skinned almonds 
add one pound of sugar. Pound as 
directed to a pulp In a mortar, oc- 
casionally adding a few .drops of 
-water to prevent the almonds from 
running to oil. Use Orange Flower 
Water. Add fine white sifted sugar 
till you have sufHcIent to make a 
paste, and work till well-amalga- 
mated and elastic. It will now be 
ready for any use designated in this 
book. 

Royal Icing. 

Glace a. la Royale. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

] Pound of Pine White Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lemon Juice. 

1 Tablespoonful of Any Kind of Essence 

Desired. 

A Royal Icing is made of the finest 
possible white loaf sugar, sifted, and 
mixed or w^orked into a paste with 
the whites of eggs and lemon juice 
in the proportions given for Plain 
Icing, only the paste must be softer, 
Flavor with any kind of essence, 
according to fancy. This icing is 
used to produce fanciful effects. It 
is not necessary to purchase orna- 
mental piping tubes. With a little 
taste and dexterity a piece of white 
writing paper, made into the shape 
of a cornet, may be utilized. Dry the 
paper by sticking together and rub- 
bing with the white of an egg, to 
render stiff. Allow at the pointed 
end oiily a half inch opening, and 
with a little practice and good ar- 
tistic taste, the prettiest effects in 
elegant ornamentation may be pro- 
duced by even an amateur. 

Transparent Icing. 

Glace Transparante. 

% Pound of Pine White Sugar. 

Half ot the White of 1 Egg. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Any Fancy Liqueur. 

Take a half pound of the finest 
white clarified sugar, and clarify 
again by boiling it with half of the 
white of an egk, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Clear off the scum as it rises, 
and continue skimming till the sugar 
is perfectly clear. Then add to the 
sugar half a gill of clarified sugar, 
boiled to a syrup, and to which you 
wiU have added the juice of a quar- 
ter or half a lemon. Strain, and add 



300 



to the feugar enough Liqueur, Cura- 
Qoa, Noyau, Cedrati or Maraschino 
to flavor the icing- to taste, and beat 
or whip it to the proper consistency. 
Then take a silver tablespoon and 
stir the sugar well together, rub- 
bing up and against the sides of the 
pan till it acquires an opaline ap- 
pearance. Then take a silver fork, 



lift one of the cakes intended to be 
iced, dip in the sugar, or- else hold 
it on a fork and with a spoon pour 
the icing - o-ver: Take a'nother fork, 
lift off the cake and place 'it on 
the baking sheet, and so on till all 
the small cakes are iced. Then dry- 
in the sun or in the oven for about 
ten minutes. 



CHAPTER XLI. 



ICE CREAMS, BISCUIT, SHERBETS. 

Des Crimes k la Glace, Biscuits Glacges, Sorbets. 



In making ice creams, alwaj-s use 
the best, fresh, sweet, rich milk or 
cream. Sweeten it with finely-pow- 
dered sugar, and flavor with the best 
quality of extracts, such as lemon,- 
■ vanilla, etc., which should be pro- 
cured from first-class, reliable drug- 
gists. These are the simplest means' 
of flavoring. Sometimes, howe'ver, 
the old Creoles boil the Vanilla 
Bean until the aroma is extracted, 
and when cool they add it to the 
sweetened cream. Always avoid set- 
ting the cream near the fire, especial- 
ly in warm weather, as it sours 
easily. Keep it in a refrigerator till 
ready to freeze. 

There are so many improved ice 
cream freezers that it would almost 
seem superfluous to add anything in 
regard to freezing the cream. How- 
ever, it is well to remember that the 
lid of the freezer must always be 
tight-fitting and secure, so as to 
preclude the possibility of any salt 
entering it. Directions are given 
with all these modern inventions as 
to the method of freezing the cream 
according to the make of the freezer. 

HoTV to Make lee Cream. 

Some persons boil the milk and 
eggs, thus making a custard ice 
cream. This is the cream that the 
old Creoles prefer best. But there 
are others who prefer the cream un- 
boiled. In either case it is abso- 
lutely necessary to have rich, fresh 
cream, and in the latter case to scald 
the cream, if you wish to. have a 
good ice cream. A delicious cream, 
however, is made according to the old 
rhethod in vogue so many years 
among the Creoles. The old French 
confectioners along Canal Street long 
ago found out and demonstrated that 
the raw frozen cream is never a 
smooth velvety cream, and that the 
flavoring is scarce apparent. 
,. The following is the approved Cre- 
ole method of making 



Ice Cream. 

Crdme a. la Glac6. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream 6 E^£S. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Any Extract. 

Put the milk or cream on to boil. 
If cream is used, six eggs will be 
sufficient; if milk, use eight.. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
very light, and then beat the whites 
to a stiff froth. Take the milk oft 
the fire, and pour it over the sugar 
and yolks, stirring it all the while. 
Then add the whites, mixing thor- 
oughly, aad two tablespoonfuls of 
extract of either Lemon or Vanilla. 
Set to cool, and then turn into the 
freezer, pack and stir around in the 
ice for about ten. minutes, and finish 
as in recipe for making and freezing 
cream. (See recipe.) 

This ice cream is the basis of all 
ice creams used by the Creoles. 

How to Freeze the Cream. 

Before putting the mixture into 
the freezer, see that the dasher is 
right side up and that everything la 
in proper condition and adjustment. 
Have the ice pounded, and a suf- 
ficient quantity of rock salt. Put a 
three-and-a-half inch layer of ice in- 
to the bottom of the freezer, and then 
a layer of salt, fully an inch and a 
half deep. Then put In the can, and 
continue to fill around it with al- 
ternate layers of ice and salt till the 
freezer is full. Then turn the crank 
slowly until it is somewhat difficult 
to turn it. Let off the water that 
has accumulated, and. refill with ice, 
and then cover with a thick piece of 
bagging or carpet. Then let it stand 
aside in a cool place to ripen, till 
you are ready to serve. Then pro- 
ceed as above. 

Fruit puddings and custards may 
be frozen in the same manner. 



301 



How to Mold Ice Cream. 

When ready to serve, if you wish 
to take the cream out of the mold 
whole, have ready a dish with a 
flat bottom, and a pan of hot water. 
Then roll the tin mold for an in- 
stant only in the water, and wipe 
it quickly, holding the top down- 
wards. Remove the lid, and quickly 
turn it right side up, setting- the 
plate on the table and removing the 
mold carefully. Or you may wring 
out cloths In scalding water and 
wrap them an Instant around the 
moid, and proceed as above. This is 
a very delicate way of serving the 
cream; and admits of it being 
brought to the table in all its beauty 
and freshness and perfection of 
molding. 

The cream may also be molded into 
a single brick by having a brick- 
shaped mold and filling it with the 
cream. When well-filled, press down 
closely and cover the' mold carefully, 
so that no pieces of salt or any salt 
water can enter it or penetrate it. 
Fill the bottom of a pail with ice, 
mingled with rock salt; lay the 
mold upon it, surround and cover 
with the broken pieces of ice and 
mingled rock salt; cover and let 
freeze for about half an hour. When 
frozen, set mold in luke warm wa- 
ter, wash off portions of ice and 
salt, lift the mold&ut gently, uncover 
turn into a dessert dish and serve 
immediately. 

Apricot Ice Cream, 

Cr&me GlacSe aux Abricots. 

1 Quart of Cream. 
% Pound of Susar. 
1 Quart of Apricots or 1 Pint Can. 
Prepare the cream as in recipe Ice 
Cream (see recipe), and let cool for 
half an hour. Pare and mash the 
apricots, being careful to remove the 
stones. Then mash them into the 
cream, mixing thoroughly for five 
n.iniUes till well dissolved in the 
crps.ni. Then strain through a li'io 
sieve into a freezer, pressing the 
fruit down with a wooden spoon 
and when w^ell packed proceed to 
freeze as In the directions for Plain 
Ice Cream. (See directions.) 

Banana Ice Cream. 

Crgme Glac6e aux Bananes. 

6 Large Bananas. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

% Pound ot Sugar. 

Peel the bananas and slice and 
mash them. Boil the milk, and add 
the sugar, stirring till well dis- 
solved. Then add the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten very light, and let cool 
for an hour. Stir in the bananas. 
Which yoii will have previously beat- 



en to a smooth paste, and proceed as 
directed above. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

CrSme au Chocolat. 

1 Quart of MiUi or Cream. 
% Pound of the Best French Chocolate. 
/ % Pound of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Boil the milk, and add to it a half 
pound ot the best French chocolate,' 
grated. Let it boil and thicken, beat- 
ing till smooth. Add a quarter of a 
pound of white pulverized sugar. 
When cool add half a quart of cream 
and the Vanilla Extract. Pour into 
the freezer, after mixing well, and 
proceed as in directions for making 
and freezing cream. 

Cliocolate Ice Cream With Bggs, 

CrSme Glac§e au Chocolat. 

4 Ounces of Chocolate. 

6 Ounces of Sugar. 1 Pint of Mllli. 

8 Yolks of Eggs. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

Dissolve the chocolate in a little 
water, and add it to the boiling milk. 
Take off, and pour over the eggs and 
sugar, which you will have beaten to 
a thick cream. Add the VAnilla, and 
set to cool. Then add the remaining 
cream, and freeze as directed. 

Coffee Ice .Cream. 

Creme Glaoee au Cafe. 

1 Pint of Cream, 

1 Pint of New Milk. 

6 Eggs. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

% Cup ot Strong Cafe Noir (Black Coffee.) 

Boil the milk. Take from the lire. 
Whip the cream to a stiff froth. Add 
the sugar ' and yolks of eggs, thor- 
oughly beaten, to the milk and cof- 
fee, sweetening to taste. Set aside 
to cool, and add the whipped cream, 
and proceed to freeze as directed. 

King of the Carnival Ice Cream. 

CrSme 3. la Glace au Rex. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 6 Eggs. 

1 Pound of Suirar. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of tlie Coloring Ex. 

tracts Given Below. 

This cream was originated by a 
famous New Orleans confisseur in 
honorof "R:ex," the King of the 
world-famed New Orleans Carnivals. 
It was first served at a Carnival 
luncheon in St. Charles Avenue. The 
King's colors are purple, green and 
gold. The cre^un represents these 
colors, and is made according to the 
following directions: 

Make a Plain Ice Cream. Divide 
into three distinct and equal por- 
tions. Color one with Spinach Green- 



302 



ery, to obtain the green effect; flavor 
another with Essence of Vanilla, and 
tinge with orange juice or a bit of 
saffron, to obtain the golden yellow, 
and the third with a deep CrSme de 
Violettes, to obtain the royal pur- 
ple. Freeze in separate molds. Then 
pack into one freezer, and when 
frozen remove, according to direc- 
tions for taking ice cream whole 
from a mold. Cut in slices and 
serve. Molds now come made in the 
- shape of tiny flags, and the effect of 
freezing thus is very beautiful, and 
suggests at once Rex and his merry 
reign. 

Lemon Ice Cream. 

Cr&me GlacSe au Citron. 

1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 

6 Eggs. % Pound o£ Susar. 

1 T.ablespoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Put the milk or cream on to boil. 
If cream is used, six eggs will be 
sufficient; if milk, use eight. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs and t'he sugar 
very light, and then beat the whites 
to a stiff froth. Take the milk off 
the Are, and pour it over the sugar 
and yolks, stirring all the while. 
Then add the whites, mixing thor- 
oughly, and two tablespoonfuls of 
extract of lemon. Set to cool, and 
then turn into the freezer, pack, and 
stir around in the ice for about ten 
minutes, and finish as in recipe for 
making and freezing Cream. (See 
recipe.) 

Ijipnenr Ice Cream. 

Cr§me Glacfie au Liqueurs. 

1 Quart of Milk. 1 Pound of Sugar, 

The Yolks of 8 Egss. 

A Gill of Any Kind of Liqueur. 

Boil the milk and take from the 
fire, and add the sugar and the eggs, 
beaten to a thick cream. Add a gill 
of any kind of fancy liqueur, and 
then turn into a mold and freeze as 
above directed. 

mandarin Ice Cream. 

Creme Glacee a I'Oranges. 

1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 

1 Pound of Suzar. 

The Yolks of 6 Eggs. 

The Grated Zest of 2 Mandarins. 

The Juice of 1 Dozen, With the Grated Pulp. 

Peel the mandarins, grate the rind 
or zest of two very fine, extract the 
juice of twelve, and, after taking 
out the seeds, mash the inner fruit 
or pulp through a sieve. Put the 
milk or cream on to boil. Beat the 
yolks of eggs and sugar till very 
light, and beat the whites to a stiff 
froth. Take the milk from the fire 
and pour it over the sugar and 
yolks, stirring all the while. Set to 
cool, then add the wi^nes of the 
eggs, and finally the grated man- 



darin pulp, zest and juice, and mix 
well. Turn all into a freezer and 
proceed as in ine directions given 
for making Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 

Marascbino Ice Cream, 

CrSme Glacfie au Maraschino. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

1 Pound oi Sugar. 8 Eggs. 

A Gill of Any Kind of Maraschino. 

'Xhe Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Boil the milk and take from the 
fire, and add the sugar and the yolks 
of the eggs, beaten to a thick cream. 
Set to cool. Add a gill of Mara- 
schino and the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, and then turn 
into a mold and freeze as above di- 
rected. 

Neapolitan Ice Cream, 

Cr^me Neapolitaine. 

1 Pint of Vanilla Cream. 

1 Pint of Pistache Ice Cream. 

1 Pint of Strawberry or Raspberry Cream, 

Prepare the ice cream according to 
recipes. (See recipes.) Have at 
hand a brick form or mold that will 
hold three pints. Lay at the bottom 
of the mold Pistache Ice Cream; 
place over this the Vanilla Cream 
and on top of this the Raspberry or 
Strawberry Cream. Cover the mold 
tightly and set to freeze for two 
hours. Then plunge the mold Into 
warm water, wash off all the salt 
and dry. Then carefully uncover, 
and unmold the cream in a cold des- 
sert dish or on a piece of paper. Take 
a long, sharp knife, dip into warm 
water, cut the brick of cream through- 
the center, and then divide the pieces 
into three or four parts, each being 
perfectly square. Arrange daintily 
on a cold dessert dish and serve Im- 
mediately. 

Nectarine Ice Cream, 

CrSme Glacfie aux Poires. 

1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 

1 Pound of Susar. 

1 Quart of Nectarines or 1 Pint Can. 

6 Eggs. 

Peel the nectarines, stone and 
mash well, with half of the sugar. 
Let them stand for an hour or more, 
and press through a sieve. Set the 
milk to boil; beat the yolks of the 
eggs and the remaining half of the 
sugar to a cream, and beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. 
Take the milk off the fire and pour 
it over the sugar and yolks, stirring 
all the while. Set to cool. Then 
add the mashed nectarines and sugar, 
and mix well; mix all thoroughly, 
turn into a freezer and proceed as 
in the general directions for making 
Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 



303 



Nougat Ice Cream. 

Cr&me Glacee au Nougat. 

1 Pint of Noueat, 

8 Eggs. % Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

3 Drops of Essence of Peach Kernels. 

Make some Nougat (see recipe), 
using about a pint. Bruise and mash 
it, and blend with one gill of orange 
flower water. Add to this the sugar 
and the yolks of the eggs, beaten to 
a thick cream. Set the milk to boil. 
Then take from the fire and add the 
above ingredients, stirring well, and 
adding at the end the Essence of 
Peach Kernels, and the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Then freeze in the manner above 
directed. Left-over Nougat may be 
utilized in this way. 

Noyau Ice Cream. 

Crgme Glac§e au Noyau. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

1 Eound at Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 8 Eggs. 

A Gill of Noyau. 

Boil the milk and take from the 
fire, and then add the sugar and the 
yolks of the eggs, beaten to a thick 
cream. Add a gill of Noyau Extract 
and the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Set to cool, and then 
turn into a mold and freeze as above 
directed. 

Orange Ice Cream. 

Cr6me Glac6e 3. I'Orange. 
I 

1 Quart of Cream. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
The Juice of 12 Oranges. 
The Grated Rind of 2 Oranges, Rubbed on 
Sugar. 
Boil the milk or cream in a farina 
boiler. Take off the fire, and while 
hot pour this over the yolks of the 
eggs, which have been beaten to a 
thick cream, with the sugar; add 
orange juice and rind of the or- 
anges. Stir till all begins to thicken. 
Then add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Set to cool. 
Turn into the freezer, and proceed 
in the manner above indicated. 

Orange FloTver Ice Cream. 

Cr&me Glacge a, la Fleur d'Oranger. 



1 Quart of Cream. ^% Pound of ■ 
1 Ounce of Candled Orange Flowers. 
The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

Bruise the orange flowers, and 
mix and stir them with the boiling 
milk. Then take from the fire, and 
add the sugar, and dissolve well, 
and then the beaten yolks of the 
eggs, mix well. Freeze in the man- 
ner above indicated. 



Feaeh Ice Cream. 

Cr6me Glac§e aux Peches. 

8 Ripe Peaches or 1 Can. 
6 Eggs. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Quart of Cream. 
Put the milk to boil, and when 
hot take from the flre, and add the 
yolks of the eggs, which have been 
beaten to a thick cream with the 
powdered sugar. Then set to cool 
for thirty minutes. Then add the 
peaches, which you will have pared, 
stoned and mashed, and stir them 
quickly into the cream. Now add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Mix all thoroughly to- 
gether and turn into the freezer. 
Turn the crank rapidly for a few 
minutes, till thoroughly mixed, and 
then cbver and let stand for two 
hours. Delicious. 

Pistachio Ice Cream. 

Cr6me GlacSe aux Pistaches. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

Yi Pound of Shelled, Scalded and Cleaned 

Pistachio Nuts. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Spinach Greening, or 6 

Droos of Spinach Green. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water or 

Almond Extract. 

Wash and boil the Spinach for 
five minues, and then drain through 
a colander. Reduce it to a pulp, and 
then squeeze out the juice through a 
piece of fine muslin. One quart of 
Spinach wili furnish the proper 
amount of juite when boiled and 
squeezed. Then Tvash, scald, clean 
and pulverize the pistachios to a 
pulp. Set half the milk to boil In 
a farina boiler. Add the sugar, and 
stir till well dissolved. Take off and 
add the yolks of the eggs, beaten 
very, very light. Stir and add the 
nuts, and stir till it thickens. Then 
stand away to cool. When cool, add 
the flavoring- extract and the re- 
maining cream, reserving a small 
portion to work into the Spinach, 
which you will add and blend 
smoothly. When the color is a light 
green, turn into a freezer and pro- 
ceed as directed above. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. 

Crgme Glac6e a, I'Ananas. 

1 Large, Ripe Pineapple. 
1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 6 Eggs, 
■ 1 Pound of Suaar. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon, ■ 

Peel the pineapple, and then grate 
and pound and mash the pulp with 
one-half of the sugar. Press through 
a sieve. Put the milk or cream on 
to boil. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and the remaining half of the sugar 
very light, and then beat the whites 



304 



to a stiff froth. Take the milk off 
the fire, and pour it over the sugar 
and yolks, stirring all the while. 
Then add the whites, mixing thor- 
oughly. Add the pineapple and juice 
and niix well. Set to cool and then 
turn into the freezer, pack and stir 
around in the ice box for about ten 
minutes, and proceed as in the re- 
cipe for making and freezing 
Cream. 

Pineapple Mousse. 

Mousse a. I'Ananas. 

1 Pineapple. 

3 TeaspoonfQls of Vanilla. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Jamaica Rum. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

1 Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

Peel the pineapple, and cut one- 
half into slices. Lay them in a bowl 
and sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and one-third of the rum. Cover 
and set aside till needed. Grate the 
remainder of the pineapple into an 
earthen vessel, and add sugar suf- 
ficient to sweeten to taste, and pour 
the vanilla and the rest of the rum 
over it. Then mix carefully with 
the cream, which should be at least 
three times the weight of the pine- 
apple. Turn all into an ice cream 
mold and proceed to freeze as di- 
rected above. Serve with slices of 
pineapple and its syrup around the 
frozen composition, which should be 
turned out of t^e mold accopdlng to 
directions given for making and 
freezing cream. 

Raspberry lee Cream. 

Cr6me Glacfie aux Framboises. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

1 Quart of Raspberries or 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Raspberry Extract. 

1 Pound of Susar. 

The Yolks of 6 Bags. 

The Juce of 1 Lemon. 

Set the milk to boil, add the sugar, 
and when well-dissolved take from 
the firev add the eggs, well beaten 
to a cream, and set aside to cool. 
Then, when cool, add the remaining 
half of the sugar, which you will 
have blended with the berries, which 
have been mashed well, and allowed 
to stan^ for several hours, and then 
press through a sieve. Mix well with 
the milk, add the, lemon juice, turn 
Into the freezer, and freeze as above 
directed. It the berries are too pale 
to impart a sufficient rosy tinge to 
the cream, add a few drops of Rasp- 
berry Extract. It is only possible to 
make the Raspberry Cream with the 
fruit when raspberries are in season. 
Otherwise use two tablespoonfuls of 
Raspberry Extract, and proceed as 
in recipe for Vanilla Cream. 



Rice Ice Cream. 

CrSme Glacfie au Riz. 

2'A Pints of Milk. % Pound of Sugar. 
The Yolks of 3 Egss. 
4 Ounces of Boiled Rice. 
1 Gill of Curacoa. 
% Pint of Milk of Almonds. 
A Compote of 8 Oranges. 
Boil the rice in the milk till very- 
soft. Do not mash. Set the pint an* 
a half extra milk to boil, and add 
the rice and the milk of almonds an* 
the sugar and eggs, beaten to a 
cream. Make a custard. Take from 
the fire, and add the Curacoa, and 
mix well. Set to freeze as above di- 
rected, and when cold turn out of the 
mold (see recipe), place in a dish 
garnish around with the oranges (see 
Compote of Oranges), pour the syrup 
over all, and serve. 

Rose lee Cream. 

CrSme Glacfie a, la Rose. 
1 Quart of Cream. 
1 Pound of Susar. 
2 Teaspoontuls of Red Rose Extract and 
Vanilla. 
Prepare exactly as in recipe for 
Ice Cream, using the same ingred- 
ients, and flavor with two table- 
spoonfuls of Red Rose Extract and 
Vanilla. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 

CrSme Glac§e aux Fraises. 

1 Quart oJ Cream. 

1 Quart of Strawberries or 2 Tablespoonfota 

of Strawberry Extract. 

1 Pound of Susar. 

6 Eggs. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Set the milk to boil; take from 
the fire, add the yolks of the eggs, 
well beaten to a cream, with halt 
the sugar, and set aside to cool. 
Then, when cool, add the remain- 
ing half of the sugar, which you will 
have blended with the strawberries, 
mashed well, and allowed to stand 
for several hours, and then press 
through a sieve. Mix well with, the 
milk, add the lemon juice and the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth; turn into the freecer, and 
freeze as above directed. If the 
strawberries are too pale to Impart 
a sufficiently rosy tinge td the cream 
add a few drops of Cochineal. When, 
not in season flavor with the Ex- 
tract. 

Tutti-Prntti. 

1 Pint of Vanilla Ice Cream. 

% Pint of Strawberry Ice Cream. 

% Pnit of Lemon Sherbet. 

>2 Ounces of Candied Cherries. 

1 Ounce of Candied Orange. 

2 Ounces of Candied Anricots. 

1 Ounce of Candled Currants. 

Prepare the Vanilla and Strawber- 
ry Ice Cream and the Lemon Sherbet: 



305 



according to recipes given (see re- 
cipea). Have ready six or eight 
tutti-frutti molds. Cut the candied 
cherries into halves or quarters, and 
this candied oranges and apricots into 
small pieces. Open the tutti-frutti 
molds and flU in the bottom with 
Vanilla Cream. Lay side by side in 
the covers of the molds a spoonful 
of Lemon Sherbet and a spoonful of 
Strawberry Cream; mix the candied 
fruits together and divide them into 
equal parts, and lay these on the 
Vanilla Cream in the bottom of the 
molds. Then press the covers tight- 
ly on each mold and after seeing that 
they are very firmly closed, lay the 
mold in a pail, the bottom of which 
has been filled with broken ice and 
rock salt. Cover the mold with more 
rock salt and ice and proceed to lay 
each mold one over the other, al- 
ternating with the ice and rook salt. 
When all are covered, fill in the pail 
with broken pieces of ice and rock 
G^lt, cover and let freeze for one 
hour. Have 'ready a vessel with 
warm water and six pr eight very 
cold dessert plates on which you 
will have arranged dainty paper 
cases fancifully cut. Lift up the molds 
gently and wash them off very quick- 
ly with the warm water, being care- 
ful to see that no salt adheres. Then 
open the molds and lay the tutti- 
Irutti in the paper cases and serve 
Immediately. 

Tnttl-Frutti ft la Creole. I 

1 Quart of Orange Slierbet. (See recipe.) 

% Pint of Cherries, Seeded. 

% Pint of Stoned Apricots. 

% Pint of Stoned Peacties. 

% Pint of Figs. 14 Pint of Pineapple. 

% Pint of Watermelon. 

Cut the w^atermelon and the pine- 
apple into very small square lozenges 
first seeding the watermelon. Cut 
the rest of the fruits very fine. Then 
put a layer of the watermelon into 
the freezer, and sprinkle generously 
with white powdered sugar. Then 
put a layer of the mixed fruits, su- 
gar abundantly, pour in a little oi 
tlie sherbet, and proceed in this way 
until the whole form is nearly filled 
with the mixture in alternate lay- 
ers. Then set in a double boiler just 
long enough for the sugar to melt. 
Take out, pour over the orange 
sherbet, close tightly, and 'set to 
freeze. This is the genuine Tutti- 
Frutti, and is most delicious. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

CrSme Glacfie a. la Vanille. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 
6 Eggs. % Pound of Sugar. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Any Extract. 

Put the milk or cream on to boil. 
If cream is used, six eggs will be 
Bufflcient; if milk, use eigh't. Beat 



the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
very light, and then beat the white? 
to a stiff froth. Take the milk oft 
the fire, and pour it over the sugar 
and yolks, stirring all the while. 
Then add tlie whites, mixing thor- 
oughly, and two lablespoonfuls of 
extract of either Lemon or Vanilla. 
Set to cool, and then turn into the 
freezer, pack, and stir around in the 
ice for about ten minutes, and finish 
as in recipe for making and freezing 
cream. (See recipe.) 

Variegated Ice Cream. 

CrSme Panachge. 

1 Quart of a^illc or Cream. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 6 _Eggs. , 

1 Teaspoonful of Essence of Strawberry, 

1 Teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chocolate. 
1 Teaspoonful of Cream of Violets. 
1 Teasponful of Splnaclj Greenery. 

Prepare a Plain Ice Cream. (See 
recipe "Ice Cream.") Divide it into 
portions. Color one with Essence of 
Strawberry, ahother with Spinach 
Greenery, another with Vanilla, to 
obtain yellow, another with Creme 
de Violettes, another with Chocolate^ 
etc. Freeze all these in separate 
molds, that come specially prepared 
for this purpose, and which may be 
obtained from any dealer. When 
frozen, take from tlie individual 
molds and pack in a large ice crearn 
freezer in a beautiful order of ar- 
rangement, so tl^at the colors may 
blend well. Freejfe' again, and then 
remove from the moid according to 
directions given above for unmold- . 
ing. Cut into slices and serve. The 
effect of the various colors is very 
pretty. 

BISCUIT GLACfiS. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

Tlie Yolks of e Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

1 Gill of Maraschino or 1 Gill of KIrsch. 

Set one-half the cream to boil. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
till they are exceedingly light. Take 
the boiling milk from the Are, and 
stir in. while still very hot, the sugar 
and eggs. Then set to cool. When 
cool add the Maraschino or Kirsch, 
and set to freeze as Ice Cream. In 
the meantime, whip the remaining 
cream to a very thick froth, as in 
Whipped Cream a, la Vanille, adding 
the Vanilla, and stir it into the freez- 
ing cream. Cut paper cases, or use 
the specially prepared molds that 
come for Biscuit GlacS, and fill with 
the mixture, and then fill the top 
one inch high with a little of th,e 
cream, which you will have colored 
with a teaspoonful of Strawberry 
Extract and a few drops of Cochi- 
neal. Pack these molds or cases in 



306 



ealt, and freeze for two hours longer, 
until they can be turned out whole. 

Blsculis Glaces & la Creole. 

1 Pint of Millj. 
The Yolks of 6 Eggs. 
14 Ponna of PulTerized Sugar. 
I Tablespoonful of Vanilla or Lemon Extract. 

Set one cint of milk to boil. Beat 
the yolks of six eggs with a half 
pound of white pulverized sugar un- 
til light. Stir' in the milk. Take from 
the fire, and let cool. Flavor with 
vanilla and freeze. Whip one pint 
of cream to a stiff froth, and stir 
In. Pill molds, or fancy paper cases 
with the mixture, pack in salt and 
Ice for two hours, and serve. 

BOMBQ GLACe. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

The Tolks of 6 Egis. 

% Pound of White Pulverized Sugar.. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

% Pint of Strawberry Sherbet. 

For this purpose you must have 
Bombe Glac6 molds. Line the molds 
about three-fourths of an inph thick 
with Strawberry Water Ice (see re- 
cipe), and then fill the center with 
the Biscuit GlacS, prepared as above. 
The biscuit must be freezing cold 
when put into the mold. Pack in 
salt and ice, and set to freeze sev- 
eral hours. 

SHERBET. 

Sorbets. 

Sherbets are delightful water ices, 
differing from ice creams in this, 
that no milk or eggs are used in 
the making, the juice of the fruit or 
extract of fruit or essence flavoring 
and sugar and water being prepared 
and frozen together. Sherbets are 
among the most pleasant of the Cre- 
ole summer desserts; they are ex- 
tensively served of a hot summer 
evening in Creole families and are 
both for the family and guests, who 
may drop in for a social half hour. 
The sherbet is served in glasses. 
Water ices are made in exactly the 
same manner as sherbets, only the 
water and sugar are not boiled; they 
are mixed together and the flavoring 
or fruit juice added and frozen, and 
are served immediately. 

Apple Sherbet. 

Sorbet aux Pommes. 

1 Pound of Susar. 
1% Pnits Of Apple Juice. 

1 Quart of Water. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Take about a dozen apples, pare, 
core and quarter, atid cook till very 
tender. Put the sugar and water to 
boil, add the apples, and when very 
tender strain all through a sieve. 
Add the juice of the lemon and set 



to freeze as in Ice Cream. (See re- 
cipe far Freezing Ice Cream.) Serve 
as needed. 

Apricot Sherbet. 

Sorbet aux Abricois. 

% Pint of Apricot Juice. 

1 Pound Oil Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Put th'e sugar and water to boil. 

Take about one dozen apricots, pare, 

press them through a sieve, and add 

to the boiling syrup. Let all boil 

for five or ten minutes. Then press 

through a sieve again; add the lemon 

juice, mix well and set to freeze 

as in general directions for freezing 

Ice Cream. 

Banana Sherbet. 
Sorbet aux Bananes. 
1 Dozen Bananas. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Quart of Water. 
The Juice of 2 Oranges. 
Peel and mash the' ~ bananas. Boil 
the sugar and water together for 
five minutes. Take from the fire, 
and let cool. Then add the bananas 
and the orange juice, and press all 
through a sieve. Set to freeze as di- 
rected. This is a favorite Creole 
Sherbet. 

Cherry Sherbet. 

Sorbet aux Cerises. 

1 Pomid ^f Cherries. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Quart of Water. 

Boil the sugar and water together 
for five minutes. Stone the cherries 
and add them to the syrup. Then 
set to cool. Press through a sieve 
till all the juice is extracted from 
the cherries. Set to freeze and serve 
as directed. 

Currant Sherbet. 

Sorbet aux Groseilles. 

1 Pint of Currant Juice. 

1 Quart of Water. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

Mash one quart of currants. Boil 
the sugar and water for five min- 
utes. Add the currants and strain 
through a napkin or sieve, being 
careful to press very hard to extract 
the juice of the currants. Set 'to 
freeze as directed. 

Grape Sherbet. 

Sorbet aux Raisins. 

1 Pint of Malaga Grapes. 
1 Pound of ■ Sugar. 
1 Quart of Water. 

Boil the sugar and water five min- 
utes. Mash the grapes and add all 
to the sugar and water. Set to cool. 
Then press through a fine cloth, 
pressing hard to extract all the 
juice of the grapes. Set to freeze 
and serve as directed. 



307 



Iiemon Sherbet. 

Sorbet au Citron. 

The Juice of 10 Lemons. 

The Grated Zest of 3 Lemona. 

1 Pint of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Put the sugar and water to boil. 
Grate the zest or yellow rind of 
three lemons, and add to the syrup, 
and let it boil for five minutes. 
Then set away to cool. Extract the 
juice from the lemons, and grate 
the fruit. Mix this with the syrup, 
and then strain through a thin mus- 
lin cloth. Turn into the freezer, and 
proceed as in Ice Cream. 

Orange Sberbet, 

S9rbet a I'Oranse. 

12 Large Louisiana Oranges. 

1 Quart of Water. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 

The Zest of 3 OranEes. 

i Pint of Sugar. 

Put the sugar and water to boil. 
Grate the zest or yellow rind of 
three oranges, and add to the syrup, 
and let it boil for five minutes. Then 
set away to cool. Extract the juice 
from the oranges and lemons, and 
grate the fruit. Mix this with the 
syrup, and then strain all through 
a thin muslin cloth. Turn into the 
freezer, and proceed as in Ice Cream. 

Feacb Sberbet. 

Sorbet aux Peches. 

1 Dozen Fine Peaches. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Pare and cut th« peaches in halves, 
remove the stones. Cut the peachas 
up very fine and sprinkle with a 
half pounJ of sugar, mash w^ell to- 
gether and set aside for an hour. 
Then set the water and the remain- . 
ing half of the sugar to boil. After 
five minutes remove from the fire and 
let cool; add the peaches and mix 
well. Then press all through a fine 
cloth sieve, extracting all the juice 
from the peaches. Set to freeze 
and serve as directed, in glasses. 
This is a delicious sherbet. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

Sorbet a. I'Ananas. 

1 Pound of Grated Pineapple. 

1 Quart of Water. 

1 Pint of Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Peel and slice and pound the pine- 
apple to a pulp. Then rub through 
a strainer. Put the sugar and water 
to boil for five minutes. Then set 
away to cool. Extract the juice from 
the lemon and mix this with the 



syrup, add the pineapple and juice, 
and then strain a,ll through a thin 
muslin cloth. Turn into the freezer 
and proceed as in ice cream. This 
sherbet is also made by using, in- 
stead of the pineapple, fruit and 
juice, two tablespoonfuls of Pine- 
apple Extract. 

Pomegranate Sherbet. 

Sorbet aux Grenades. 

S Ripe Pomegranates. 

1 Quart of Water. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

% Teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. 

3 Drops of Cochineal. 

The pips of six or eight ripe pome- 
granates, pressed with a wooden 
spoon . through a strainer, will pro- 
duce a pint of juice. Make a syrup 
by boiling one quart of water and 
one pint of sugar. Add, when cool- 
ing, the pomegranate juice, a half 
teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla, 
the juice of a lemon, and a few 
drops of Cochineal. Proceed to 
freeze as above directed. 

Raspberrjr Sherbet, 

Sorbet aux Framboises. 

I'A Pints of Raspberry Juice or Pulp. 

1^ Pints of Piclied Raspberries. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

3 DroDS of Cocliineal. 

The Juice of M Lemon. 

Stem the berries, and add the 
sugar and lemon, and stand aside in 
their juice for an hour and a half. 
Then strain through a fine sieve, 
and add the reserved juice. Turn in- 
to the freezer, and proceed to freeze 
according to directions given under 
heading "Ice Cream." This sherbet 
is also made by adding to the sugar 
and water two tablespoonfuls of 
Elaspberry Extract, instead of the 
fruit, when not available. 

StraTvberry Sherbet. 

Sorbet aux Fraises. 

1% Pints of Strawberry Juice or Pulp. 

1% Pints of Piclied Red Strawberries. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

3 Drons of Cochineal. 

The Juice of Va Lemon. 

Stem the strawberries and add the 
sugar and lemon, and stand aside in 
their juice for an hour and a half. 
Then strain through a fine sieve, and 
ad"d the reserved juice. Turn into the 
freezer and uroceed to freeze ac- 
cording to directions given under 
the heading "Ice Cream." Strawberry 
Sherbet Is also made by adding one 
tablespoonful of Strawberry Extract 
to the sugar and water, when the 
fruit is not available. 



308 



Watermelon Sherbet. 

Sorbet de Melon d'Eau. 

1 Ripe Watermelon. 
% Pound of Pulverized Sugar. 
6 Teaspoonfuls of Sherry Wine. 
Split a ripe watermelon in half. 
Scoop out the center, rejecting the 
seeds. Put the scooped fruit in a 
bowl; take a silver fork and pick it 
in small pieces. Mix with a half 
pound of pulverized sugar; turn the 
mixture into a freezer and turn slow- 
ly for fifteen minutes. Serve in 
glasses, adding a teaspoonful of 
Sherry to each glass. 

WATER ICES. 

Water ices are, as mentioned above, 
made in exactly the same manner, as 
sherbets, only the sugar and water 
are not boiled. In this case always 
mash the fruit with the sugar and 
set aside to grow juicy. Then press 
through a fine muslin cloth, to ex- 
tract all the juice, and add to the 
water. Mix well for a few minutes 
and freeze. In case peaches or apri- 
cots or cherries are used, pound the 
fruit, to extract all the juice, and 
mix well with the sugar; strain 
through a fine sieve or muslin cloth, 
and add to the cold water, and pro- 
ceed to freeze. 

To make Water Ices, follow the di- 
rections given for making Sherbet, 
with the exception of boiling tie wa- 
ter. 

MIDDLE COURSE DRINKS. 

Coup de Mlllieu. 

From earliest Creole days no ele- 
gant dinner or luncheon or supper 
was considered complete without a 
"Coup de Millieu," or a middle course 
consisting of a form of iced sherbet 
or punch, into which fruit juices or 
fancy liqueurs were added. As the 
name "Coup de Millieu" indicates, 
these fancy punches were brought to 
the table in the middle of the feast, 
just before the roasts were served. 
The custom was a survival of the 
ancient French and Spanish usage, 
that in our day has been adopted by 
all leading northern caterers. The 
following are the most famous "Coup 
de Millieus," the recipes for which 
are traaaional among the old Cre- 
ole families of New Orleans. The 
"Coup de Millieu" is always frozen, 
but it must be remembered that it is 
never possible to freeze it entirely, 
on account of the alcohol in the liq- 
uors that enter into its composition. 

C ardinal Punch. 

Ponche Cardinal. 

4 Fine Louisiana Oranjres. 

1 Hnt of the Best Claret or Any Pine Keil 

Wine. 

1 Pint of Old Port Wine. 



1 Pint of Water. 

2 Tableapoonfuls of Cloves. 
1 Pint of Gelatine or the Whites of 10 

Eggs, Beaten to a Froth. 

2 Pounds of White Susar. 
3 Tabl'espoonfulB of Raspberry Juice or a 

Pew Drors of Cocbl4cal. 

Select fine Louisiana oranges, when 
in season, otherwise fine, ripe or- 
anges. Set them on a plate in the 
oven, and let them bake till very ten-, 
der, without letting the juice exude. 
Make a boiling syrup of the sugar, 
water and the cloves. Drop the 
roasted oranges into the syrup, add a 
pint of the best Claret or any good, 
red wine, and set the mixture to 
cool, letting the oranges steep in' 
the wine and syrup. When it grows 
cold, cut the oranges and press out 
all the juice, mashing them into the 
steeped, syrup, and then strain all 
through a fine sieve into the ice 
cream freezer. Now add the gelatine 
(Calf's Foot Jelly) or the whites of 
ten eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Stir 
well and add the raspberry juice, 
if raspberries are in season, other- 
wise color with a few drops of Coch- 
ineal, so that the punch will be of 
a bright cardinal color. Cover im- 
mediately and set to freeze as hard 
as possible for three or four min- 
utes. Then take a wooden spoon and 
detach the frozen punch from the 
bottom, mix in with the inner liquid 
mixture, and cover and freeze again" 
for three or four minutes. Repeat 
this four or five times. Serve in 
punch glasses. 

A simpler and quicker way of mak- 
ing this punch is to prepare a Rasp- 
berry Sherbet, using half the quan- 
tity of ingredients, given. (See re- 
cipe.) Strain this preparation 
through a sieve into a freezer, and 
add a half a gill of red Curagoa and 
half a gill of • Maraschino; cover the 
freezer and proceed to freeze ac- 
cording to general directions given 
above. Serve in punch glasses. This 
is _ a very pleasant middle course 
drink, but the first recipe given is 
the true Cardinal Punch, and there 
is no comparison between this and 
the latter, or more simple recipe. 

Cardinal Punch is an old-time Cre- 
ole punch. The French used to make 
a famous spiced wine, which they 
called "Vin de I'Eveque," or "Bish- 
op's Wine." When the spiced wine 
was made of Claret, it was called 
"Vin de Cardinale," or "Car^Jinal's 
Wine." These wines were served 
during the feast. The "Coup de Mil- 
lieu," or the frozen punches, are 
survivals of the old French custom 
of serving spiced wines, and "Ponche 
a. la Cardinale" is a survival of the 
ancient "Vlp k la Cardinale." The 
Creoles adapted oranges to the punch,, 
baking them to better extract all 



309 



the juices, and steeping- them in 
Wine and adding the touch of Coch- 
ineal to obtain brilliancy of color- 
ing and still further to car.ry out the 
Idea of a Cardinal's colors. 

Creole Puncli. 

Ponclie a, la Creole. 

3 Cupfuls of Orange Juice. 

■ 1 Cupful of Water." 

1 Cupful of Fine Old Port Wine. 

% Cupful of Bi-anaj". ' 

2 Small Cupfula of Suaar. 

2 Hipe, Delicate-Skinned Lemons. 

Wash the lemons and dry, and then 
Slice them very thin, without grating 
or squeezing into a bowl. Take the 
sugar and water and make a boiling 
syrup, and pour over the lemons, 
and let the whole mixture cool. Then 
add the orange juice. Take out the 
slices of lemon, and save them for 
later use. Strain the punc^ into an 
ice cream freezer, add the slices of 
lemon and liqueurs, and fneeze as 
hard as possible for three or four 
minutes. Then take a wooden .spoon 
and detach the frozen punch from 
the sides of the freezer and from the 
bottom, mix in with the inner liq- 
uid mixture, and cover and freeze 
again for three or four minutes, 
feepeat this four or five times. Serve 
in punch glasses. 

Frozen Champagne Punch. 

Ponche Glac6 au yin de Champagne. 
6 Lemons. 2 Oranaes. 
1 Pound of White Powdered Sugar, 
r 1 Pint of Water. 

% Pint of Champagne. 
Vi Gill of Brandy. 

Extract all thd juice from the 
oranges and lemons. Dissolve the 
sugar in bailing water, and when 
cold add the juice. Freeze very hard 
for four or five minutes, and when 
firm add the liquors, turning long 
enough to mix weU, and then pro- 
ceed to freeze as in Creole Punch. 
(See recipe.) Serve in punch glasses. 

The above recipe may be varied 
by adding any fruit juiceS in sea- 
son, always, as in Strawberry Punch, 
putting in two dozen or more whole 
stemmed berries for the above quan- 
tities of ingredients. 

Imperial Punch. 

Ponche a, I'Imperial. 
, 1 Kipe Pineapple. 

4 Oranges. 2 Pounds of Sugar. 

The Finely-Grated Zest of 2 Lemons. 

1 Pint Equal Parts of Maraschino, Noyeau, 

■ Kirsch and Curaeoa. 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Pint of Champagne. 
. The Whites of 8 Eggs. 
3 . Pints of Water. 

Make a syrup of the water and ths 
sfyrup. Peel and grate the pineap- 



ple very fine. Grate the zeat of two 
lemons very fine, and mix -vyith the 
pineapple. Add the juices of the 
oranges and lemons. Mix thorough- 
ly, and pour over all the boiling 
syrup. . Let it stand till cold. Then 
strain through a fine sieve into the 
Ice crdam freezer, pressing out all 
the Juice of the pineapple as you 
strain. Whip the whites of the eggs 
to a stifle froth, and add, mixing 
well. Add the liqueurs, ' stir "well, 
and then proceed to freeze as in 
"Creole Punch." When you ha^^e de- 
tached the frozen nunch from the 
sides and bottom of the freezer tot 
the third time, add the champagne. 
Let it continue freezing for several 
turns more, and serve immediately 
in punch glasses. 

Kirsch Punch. 

Ponche au Kirsch. 

1 Dozen' Fine Louisiaua Oranges. 

1 Gill of Kirsch. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Pineapple Syrup. 

■2 Lemons. 2 Dozen- Strawberries.' 

Take fine, fresh Louisiana orai^ges, 

and press out all the juice, and mash 

the pulp and etrain through a sieve. 

To each pint of juice allow one gill 

of Kirsch and two of the juice of two 

lemons. Sweeten to taste. Flavor 

with Pineapple Syrup, add whole 

strawberries when in season, and 

freeze as in Creole Punch. Serve in 

glasses. 

Louisiana Punch. 

Ponche a la Louisianaise. 

The Juice of 1 Large Louisiana Orange. 

The Juice of 4 Lemons. 

% Pound of Pulverized Sugar. 

14 Pint of Water. 

1 Gill of Kirsch. 1 Gill of Fine Kum. 

1 Gill of Champagne. 
Put the sugar into a bowl and 
squeeze over the juices of the orange 
and lemons. Mix well till all the 
sugar is impregnated with the juices. 
Add a half- pint of cold water, and 
then add the Kirsch, and stir for 
five or six minutes. Strain all 
through a fine sieve into the ice 
cream freezer. Then remove the 
sieve and pour into the freezer the 
rum and champagne. Cover well, 
and let the mixture freeze for about 
five minutes. Then remove the cover 
and detach the mixture from the 
sides and bottom, and cover again 
and proceed as in "Ponche a la Cre- 
ole." (See recipe.) Serve in punch 
glasses. 

Roman Punch. 
Ponche. a. la Romaine. 
1 Quart of Lemon Sherbet. 

14 Pint of Champagne. 
^ Pint of Jamaica Rum. 

1 Gill of Maraschino. 
1 Teaspoonful of -Vanilla. 
Make a Lemon, Sherbet, and freeze 
it very hard. Then add the liquors' 



310 



slowly, and beat well. Turn into a 
freezer, pack and cover it well, and 
let it stand for four or five hours. 
The punch will not freeze perfectly 
on account of the alcohol. The cor- 
rect way to serve it is in a rather 
liquid state, in glasses. 

Or take half a pint of lemon juice, 
the zest of two lemons, grated on 
sugar, one pint of rum, one and a 
half pints of brandy, two quarts of 
water, and three pounds of sugar, 
and freeze as above. This is a 
cheaper recipe. 

Still another way to make this 
punch is to take the juice of eight 
lemons and five oranges, three pints 
of sugar, and three pints of water. 
Add onei wineglassful of Jamaica 
rum, and two of Champagne, an(J the 
whites of three eggs, beaten to a 
froth. Freeze and serve in glasses. 

Royal Sherbet. 

Sorbet a. la Royale. 

1 Dozen Fine Louisiana Oranges. 
2 Tablespoonfula of Branfly. 

2 TablespooDfuls of Orange Syrnp. 

Take fine, fresh Louisiana oranges, 
and press out all juice, and mash 
the pulp and strain through a sieve. 
To each pint of juice allow two ta- 
blespbonfuls of brandy and two of 
orange syrup. Sweeten to taste and 
freeze and serve according to the di- 
rections given for Creole Punch. 

FROZEN FRUITS. 

Des Fruits Glacgs. 

The variety of fruits always to be 
found in the New Orleans markets 
are the pleasure and surprise of visit- 
ors to the city, as well as a delight 
to the residents. No manner of serv- 
ing fruits in summer is more accept- 
able than the methods of freezing 
them in vogue among the Creoles. 

Remember that in freezing fruits 
they must always be mashed or cut 
very fine, for fruit freezes more 
quickly than liquid. Fresh fruits 
are always more delicious than 
canned fruits. The latter are rarely 
used for freezing in Creole homes, 
as fresh fruits in season are always 
to be found in our markets. 

The following recipe for freezing 
fruits will serve for almost all kinds 
of fruit: 

HoTV to Freeze Frulta. 

Take one pound of fruit, or one 
can, two cups of sugar, and one pint 
of water. Cut fine, and mix all the 
ingredients together. Then freeze 
in the ice cream freezer, according 
to directions already given for freez- 
ing. 

The proportions of ingredients 
used in freezing fruits are generally 



one pint of fruit, one pint of water 
and half a pound of sugar. Increase 
in ptoportion. Peaches arid such 
fruits as are watejy may often be 
frozen without addition of vrater. 
Serve with rich cream or milk. 

Frozen Apricots. 

Abricots Glacfis. 

2 Fine, Rine Apricots. 
2 cups of Susar. 
1 Pint of Water or Cream. 
Pare the apricots, cut them in two, 
remove the stones, and cut in small 
pieces. Mash the fruit and the sUgar 
together, add the water or cream, 
and turn into the freezer and pro- 
ceed to freeze as in Ice Cream. (See 
recipe Ice Cream.) 

Frozen Bananas. 

Bananes Glacfies. 

1 Dozen Fine Bananas. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Suear or Cream. 

The Juice of 2 Oranees. 

Peel the bananas, cut them very 

fine and mash well; add the cream or 

water and the orange juice, turn into 

the freezer and pack away in ice and 

rock salt. Set to freeze according to 

directions given for freezing Ice 

Cream. (See recipe.) 

Frozen Cherries. 

Cerises GlacSes. 

1 Pound of Ciierries. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 
Stone the cherries, mix them with 
the sugar and add the water. Mix 
well and turn into the freezer and 
proceed to freeze as in directions for 
Ice Cream. (See recipe.) Serve with 
Whipped Cream or rich milk. 

Frozen Oranges. 

Oranges Glac6es. 

6 Fine Oranges. 

^4 Pound of Snear. 

1 Pint ot Water. 

x'are the oranges, and grate or cut 
them into fine pieces. Mix well with 
the sugar and set aside for an hour. 
Add the water and mix thoroughly. 
Turn into a freezer and proceed to 
freeze as in Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 

Another delightful way is to cut 
off the tops of the oranges, about 
two inches deep; then) with a small 
and very sharp knife, remove the or- 
ange skin whole, being careful not 
to break. Set the orange covers to 
one side. Scoop out the inside of 
the oranges, being careful not to 
break the outer skin. Take these or- 
anges and arrange nicely in a square 
Biscuit Glacge mold, and set in a tub, 
the bottom of which has been filled 
with broken pieces of ice and rock 
salt. Prepare a Champagne Punch 



311 



(see recipe), fill the interiors of the 
oranges with this, set the orange 
covers on, and place the cover on the 
mold, covering , very tight. Cover 
well with broken pieces of ice and 
rock salt and set to freeze for an 
hour. Then take from the mold, 
place on a very cold dessert dish and 
serve immediately. 

Frozen Feaclies. 

Peches Glac6es. 

12 Lar£e Peaches. 
2 Cups of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Take twelve large peaches or one 
can, two cups of sugar, and one pint 
of water. Cut the peaches fine, and 
mix all the ingredients together. 
Then freeze in the ice cream freezer 
according to directions already given. 

Peaches, if very juicy, may often 
be frozen without addition of water. 
Serve with rich cream or milk. 

Frozen Pineapple. 

Ananas Glacfie's. 

1 Larae Plneapnie. 
1 Pound of Sunar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Pare the pineapples. Cut out the 
eyes, and then grate the fruit, or cut 
It very fine. Add the sugar and wa- 
ter and stir well. When the sugar 
Is thoroughly dissolved, turn the 
mixture into a freezer, and proceed 
to freeze as in Ice Cream. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Frozen StraTvberrles. 

Fraises Glacfe'es.- 

1 Quart ot Strawberries. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Mash the berries with the sugar 
and set aside for an hour. Add the 
water and mix well with the straw- 
berries. Turn the mixture '3nto the 
freezer and proceed to freeze as in 
Ice Cream (see recipe). Serve with 
rich milk or Whipped Cream. 



Macedolne of Fruits. 

Jtfacedoine de Fruits. 

1 Quart of Lemon Ice Cream. 

Tlie Juice of 3 Lemons. 

% Teaspoonful ot Vanilla Extract. 

2 Ounces of Stoued Cherries. 

2 Ounces ot Pineapple, Cut in Dice. 

2 Ounces of Strawberries. 

2 Ounces of Grapes. 2 Ounces of Fe&clieB. 

2 Ounces of Apricots. 

2 Ounces of Oranses. 

1 Ounce of Candied Cherries. 

1 Ounce of An::elica. 
1 Ounce of Candied Pineapple. 
1 Gill of Sherry Wine. 
Prepare a quart of Lemon Ice 
Cream (see recipe.) Add to this 
a half teaspoonful of vanilla, 2 ounces 
each of stoned cherries, pineap- 
ple cut into dice sliape, 2 ounces of 
strawberries, 2 ounces of grapes, 
apricots, peaches and grapes cut into 
small pieces, and the candied fruits 
in equal proportions. Add a gill of 
Sherry wine, mix all the fruits light- 
ly, "turn into a freezer and proceed to 
freeze as in Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 
Again this Macedolne may be pre- 
pared by using instead of the Lemon 
Cream, a pint of Syrup made of sugar 
and water, to which has been added 
the juice of three lemons. 

A very delightful and pretty way 
of freezing this Macedolne is to pre- 
pare the cream, mix the candied 
fruits and fresh fruits together; have 
ready a square ice cream mold, and 
place one-fourth of the lemon, cream 
at the bottom; divide the fruits into 
three parts, • and place one portion 
on top of the cream. Cover this with 
another portion of the cream, and lay 
on top the fruits. Again cover with 
the cream, and lastly with the fruits. 
Fill up the mold with the remaining 
portion of the cream, cover closely, 
pack in broken ice and rock salt, 
and set to freeze for two hours. Just 
before serving have ready a vessel 
with warm water, lift the mold and 
wash off rapidly, being very careful 
to remove all salt and ice. Carefully 
take the Macedolne of Fruits from 
the mold, turn into a cold dessert 
dish and serve immediately. 



CHAPTER XLII. 

FRUIT SYRUPS, CORDIAI,S, ETC. 

Des Sirops, de» Liqueurs, Etc. 



No book on Creole cookery would 
be complete without reference to 
those : delightful fruit syrups which, 
under the names of "Sirops," "Kata- 
Sas," "Granits," etc., enter so largely 
into the home and social life of the 
Creoles. Again, the ancient Creole 
housekeepers -are famous for the de- 
licious "Cordials" or "Liqueurs" that 
they put up each year. Anisette as 
grateful to the palate as that manu- 
factured by the famous French dis- 
tilleries is made at home by the Cre- 
oles, as also various kinds of do- 
mestic wines, than which a better 
quality could not be purchased from 
professional manufacturers. 

Before entering into a discussion 
of these "Sirops" and "Liqueurs," the 
Picayune will refer to the ancient 
custom the Creoles have of serving 
sweetened water after a hearty meal, 
and which, under the name of 

EAU SUCRfiE, 

has been handed down from genera- 
tion to generation as an integral part 
of the life of the Creole household. 

To one glass of fresh water allow 
one tablespoonful of sugar, or to a 
half glass allow a half tablespoonful 
stir till the sugar is dissolved, and 
drink after a hearty- meal. Every 
old Creole clings to his glass of "Bau 
Sucre." He claims that this custom 
accounts for the singular freedom 
that the Creoles, as a rule, enjoy 
from that distressing complaint, be- 
coming so common in America — Dys- 
pepsia. It is the rarest thing in the 
world to hear a Creole complain of 
any stomachic trouble," notwithstand- 
ing heavy dinners, numbers of 
courses, and richest viands and 
wines. The Eau Sucrfie is passed 
around the table at the. close of the 
meal, and the children; as well as 
their elders, enjoy the drink. 

Again "Eau Sucrg" is used by all 
Creole mothers as a sedative for 
their little ones. Just before kiss- 
ing her babes "Good-night," the Cre- 
ole mother will give them a small 
glass of "Eau Sucr6e." It is claimed 
that it insures digestion and perfect 
Bleep. 

"Bau SuorS" parties were famous 
in old New Orleans in those happy, 
Innocent days when friend met 
friend in social gatherings for the 
pleasure ol social Intercourse, and 



not for the sake of the grand spread 
of fancy viands and wines that hava 
become such a source of terror in 
our day to the housewife of limited 
means who wishes to entertain her 
friends. "With that beautiful old- 
time courtesy so peculiar to the Cre- 
oles, the poor young woman who en- 
tertained was placed on an equal 
with her richer sister, for it became 
a kind if unwritten law that be- 
yond a glass of lemonade and cake, 
or a glass of "Bau SucrSe," nothing 
more was expected of the household. 
There was no tax. no drain; the 
faubourg laughed and sang and 
danced, night after, night, on Iced 
"Bau Sucrge," or Iced Lemonade, 3,nd 
Orgeats, and Ice Creams, with as 
much zest as when grand , suppers 
were spread and champagne flowed. 
There were no heartaches, no pangs, 
no sad thoughts, because Madame 
So-and-So, who lived in the Rue Es- 
planade or -Bue Rampart, had given 
a grander ball than her poorer sister, 
who lived in the Rue de Sons Bn- 
fants or the Rue d'Amour. All this 
has passed away with the changing 
life of the old French quarter. But 
"Eau Sucrfee" remains, and the Pica- 
yune refers to it upon the merits 
claimed by the Creoles, that it pro- 
motes easy digestion and insures 
freedom from insomnia. These claims 
are borne out by the longevity and 
good spirits for which the. race Is 
famous. 

SYRUPS. 

Sirops. 

Under this heading are classed 
.those delightful beverages of fruits 
or nuts, served by the Creole house- 
wives during the summer season. Of 
a hot, sultry day, if you enter a 
well-regulated Creole household, the 
first thing Madame will do will be to 
regale you with a glass of Lemonade, 
or "Iced Orgeat," or "Iced Pineapple," 
etc. The syrups are put up and bot- 
tled by Madame herself, and are al- 
ways at hand. Old "Tante Zizi," in 
bandana and tignon, knows the cus- 
toms of the household well, and does 
not need to be told by Madame to 
prepare a nice, cooling glass of "Si- 
rog" for her guest. In a few mo- 
ments you will see her enter the 
parlor or sitting room with a dainty 



313 



silver salver, covered Vlth a snowy 
napkin, and bearing, according to, 
the number of visitors, the glasses 
of Iced "Sirop." Of an evening, as 
the family sit out on the "Esplanade" 
or the gallery to enjoy the freshen- 
ing breezes, she will come again un- 
bidden to bring her "people" the 
daily refreshing summer drink. It is 
all these pretty little customs and 
touches that make life in a Creole 
household so pleasant and full of 
variety. 

General Directions for Making 
'Syrups. 

The Plain Syrup, that is the basis 
of all fruit syrups, is simply sugar 
and water boiled together in the pro- 
portion of two pounds of sugar to 
a pint and a half of water. Cook the 
sugar and water till it forms the 
syrup called "Le Petit Casse" (see 
recipe under heading "Sugar as Em- 
ployed in Candy-Making"), or crack, 
that is, cook it till it instantly snaps 
asunder when placed between the 
fingers after dipping them In cold 
water to enable one to test. Then 
add the Fruit Syrup, and mix thor- 
oughly. Let it boil for about five 
minutes; take off the fire and let it 
get almost cold, then bottle very 
tight. This is the invariable rule to 
be followed in making syrups of 
fruits. 

One quart of fruit when mashed 
and pressed will make a pint of 
Fruit Syrup, to be added to the 
Plain Syrup given above. 

Apricot Symp. 

Sirop d'Abricots. 
12 Pints of Apricot Syrup. 

1 Gallon o£ Plain Syrup. 

1 Ounce of Essence ot Apricots. 
Pare and stone the apricots, then 
cut them into pieces, pound and 
mash well and set them aside for 
thirty-six hours In a cool place. Then 
strain through a bag, pressing out 
all the juice. Cook the sugar and 
water till it forms the syrup called 
"Le Petit Casse.' (See general di- 
rections for Making Syrups). Then 
add the apricot juice and mix thor- 
oughly; let it boil for five minutes, 
take o«E the fire, let it get almost 
cold, add the essence, and then bottle 
for use. 

Banana Syrup. 
Sirop de Bananes. 

2 Pints of Banana Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

V4 Ounce of Banana Essence. 
Tlie Juice of a Lemon. 
Peel the bananas, then cut into 
small pieces and pound and mash 
well and set aside In a cool place 
for thirty-six hours. Then strain 
through a bag and proceed In ex- 



actly the same manner as for Ap- 
ricot Syrup (see recipe), and add 
the essence and lemon juice when 
about to bottle. 

Blackberry Syrup. 
Sirop de Mflres. 

% Pint of Blackberry Juice. 

1 Gallon of Syrup. 

Pick, stem and wash the black- 
berries, then pound and mash them 
well set aside in a cool place for 
thirty-six hours. Then strain 

through a bag, pressing out all the 
juice, and proceed in exactly the 
same manner as for Apricot Syrup. 
(See recipe.) 

Cherry Syrup. 

Sirop de Cerises. 

12 Pints of Clierry Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
Seed' the cherries, and stem, pound 
and masTi them well, and let them 
stand for thirty-six hours in a cool 
place. Then strain through a bag. 
Cook the sugar and water till it 
forms the syrup called "Le Petit 
Casse," or crack (see recipe under 
chapter on Creole candies), that is, 
till it instantly snaps asunder when 
placed between the fingers, after 
dipping them in cold water to enable 
you to test. Then add the fruit 
syrups and mix thoroughly. Let it 
boil for about five minutes, take off 
the fire, let it get almost cold, and 
then put up in bottles. 

Cranberry Syrup. 
Sirop d'Airelles. 

3 Pints of Cranberry Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
% Ounce of Soluble Essence of Lemon. 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Currant Syrup (see recipe 
below), adding twice the quantity of 
sugar, and adding the essence after 
the syrup has somewhat cooled and 
you are about to bottle it. 
Currant Syrup. 
Sirop de Groseilles. 
2 Pints of Currant Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
Pick, seed, wash and dry the cur- 
rants carefully. Then pound them 
well and set aside in a cool place for 
thirty-six hours. Make a Plain Sy- 
rup (see recipe), and proceed as in 
the (jeneral Directions for Making 
Fruit Syrups. (See directions.) 
Currant Syrup with Raspberries. 
Sirop de Groseilles FramboisSe. 
1 Pint of Currant Juice. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 
6 Pounds ' of Currants. 

1 Pound of Sour Cherries. 

1 Pound of Raspberries. 

114 Pints of Water. 

The cherries and raspberries are 
not necessary, but they give the sy- 



314 



rup a most delightful flavor and 
aroma. Pick, wash, seed and dry the 
qurrants carefully. Seed the cher- 
ries, and .stem them and the rasp- 
berries, pound and mash them well, 
and let them stand for thirty-six 
hours in a cool place. Then strain 
through a bag. Cook the sugar and 
water till it forms the syrup called 
"L.& Petit CassS," or crack, that Is, 
till it Instantly snaps asunder when 
placed between the fingers, after dip- 
ping them in cold water, to enable 
you to test. Then add the fruit sy- 
rups, and mix thoroughly. Let it 
boil for about five minutes, take off 
the fire, let it get almost cold, and 
then put up in bottles. 

Grape Syrup. 

Sirop de Raisins. 

1 Gallon Plain Synip. 
, 2 Pints of Grape Juice. 
% -mt of Grape or Catawba Wine. 

Pick, wash, stem and seed the 
grapes; then pound and mash well, 
and set aside in a cool place for 
thirty-six hours. Then strain through 
. a bag, pressing out all the juice; 
make a Plain Syrup, and proceed in 
exactly the same manner as for Cur- 
rant Syrup, and add the wine when 
you are about to bottle. 

Lemon Syrnp. 

Sirop de Citron. 

8 Ounces of Lemon Juice. 
15 Ounces of Sucar. 
% Ounce of Extract of Lemon. 
Press the juice from the lemons 
and grate the zest of four into the 
syrup; set aside in a cool place for 
six'or eight houi-s. Then strain care- 
fully through a bag. Make a Plain 
Syrup, using the proportions of fif- 
teen ounces of sugar to a pint and a 
half of water. Prepare a- gallon of 
syrup, and then proceed as in the 
General Directions for Making Sy- 
rups (see directions). Add 'the es- 
sence when about to bottle. 

Lilme Syrup. 

Sirop de Limons. 
2 Pints of Lime Juice. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

% Ounce of Soluble Essence of Limes, 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Lemon Syrup, and add 
the essence when about to bottle. 

Orange Syrup. 

Sirop d'Orange. 

2 Quarts of Orange Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
X Ojmce of Lemon Juice. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Lemon Syrup, and bottle 
■Vsrhen almost cold. This is a stand- 
ing Creole Syrup. 



Orgeat Syrup. 

Sirop d'Orgeat. 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Bitter Almonds. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Quart of Water. 

2 Ounces of Orange Flower Water. 

The Zest of a Lemon, 

Do not throw the almonds into 
hot water and' blanch them, as in 
other recipes for almonds, but 
throw them into cold water, after 
shelling them, until the peeling or 
skin comes off easily. Then mash 
them and pound them in a mortar 
till they are reduced to a fine pow- 
der, adding, from time to time, a 
little water and the well-grated zest 
of the lemon, When this paste is 
perfectly made, m.oisten it with one- 
half of the water, and then squeeze 
it hard through a linen cloth, each 
end of which is held by some one, 
when you will have drained thor- 
oughly of all milk. Then return the 
paste to the mortar, throw over the 
rest of the water, mix thoroughly, 
pounding well, and then squeeze 
again through the towel. Put the 
sugar into a farina boiler, and let 
it boil to the degree of "Le Petit 
Cassg," or crack,' that is, till it forms 
a thick syrup that will not cling to 
the teeth in tasting, or instantly 
snaps asunder between the fingers 
after testing in cold water. Then 
take the syrup off the fire and add 
the milk of almonds, stirring well. 
Return it to the fire, and let it sim- 
mer gently till it begins to boil. Let 
it boil for several minutes. Then 
take it off the fire and let it cool. 
When cold, add the orange flower 
water. ■ and mix well. Then drain 
all through a cloth or bag, and fill 
and seal the bottles. 

Orgeat, being made of the milk 
of almonds, easily decomposes or 
sours, because the oil of almonds, 
being lighter than the other ingred- 
ients, rises to the top. For this 
reason, it is well to look at the bot- 
tles frequently, and shake them 
daily. This will preserve the exact 
mingling of the mixture, and also 
preserve the Orgeat for use. 

Orgeat is a great Creole syrup. It 
is not only a most delicate drink, 
but a healthy, popular and tradi- 
tional one. In old Creole households 
upon the birth of a babe, the friends 
who call to congratulate the par- 
ents upon the new addition to the 
household are served with a glass 
of Orgeat, the mother drinking with 
her friends in- honor of the little 
angel just sent from heaven. This 
Is an ancient Creole custom, dating 
from earliest days in Louisiana. 

Use only the finest white loaf su- 
gar in making Orgeat Syrup. 



315 



Peach Syrup. 

Sirop de Peches. 
2 Pints of Peach Juice. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
^ Ounce of Peach Essence. 

Pare and stone the peaches, then 
pound and mash well and set aside 
in a cool place for thirty-six hours. 
Strain through a bag, pressing out 
all the juice, then proceed in exactly 
the same manner as for Apricot Sy- 
rup, and add the essence as the 
syrup cools and you are about to 
bottle it. 

Pineapple Syrup. 

Sirop d' Ananas. 

2 Pints of Pineauple Juice. 

1 Gallon of Plain Bycus. 
1 Ounce of Lemon Juice. 

Pare the pineapples, cutting out 
the eyes and the core. Then cut 
Into very fine pieces and mash and 
pound I well, or grate the pineapple, 
which is better. Set aside for thir- 
ty-six hours in a cool place. Then 
strain through a fine muslin bag, 
pressing out all the juice. Then 
make a Plain Syrup and proceed as 
in the General Directions for Mak- 
ing Fruit Syrups. (See directions.) 
Plum Syrup. 
Sirop de Prunes. 

2 Pints of Plum Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

Stone the plums, pound and mash 
well and set aside in a cool place 
for thirty-six hours. Then proceed 
in exactly the same manner as in 
the recipe for Apricot Syrup. (See 
recipe.) 

StraTTberry Syrup. 

Syrbp de Fraises. 

2 Pints of Strawberry Syrup. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syruo. 
1 Ounce of Easpberrj- Essence. 
. Pick, stem and wash the straw- 
berries, then pound and mash them 
well, and let them stand for thirty- 
six hours in a cool place. Then 
strain through a bag. Cook the su- 
gar and water till it forms the sy- 
rup called "Le Petit Cass6," or 
crack, that is, till it instantly snaps 
asunder when placed between the 
fingers, after dipping them in cold 
water, to enable you to test. Then 
add the fruit syrups, and mix thor- 
oughly. Let it boil for about five 
minutes, take off the fire, let it get 
almost cold, and then put up in bot- 
tles. 

Raspberry Syrup. 

2 Pints of Easpberry Syrup. 

1 Gallon of Plain SyruD. 
1 Ounce of Easpberry Esence. 
Pick, stem and wash the ber- 
ries a,nd proceed in exactly the same 
manner as for Strawberry Syrup, 
adding the essence when about to 
bottle. 



Vanilla Syrup. 

Sirop de Vanille. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
3 Ounces of Extract of Vanilla. 
>4 ounce of Caramel. 
Boil the syrup and add the Cara- 
mel. (See recipe.) Drain, and then 
add the essence of vanilla. Stir well 
and bottle. 

Blacltberry Vinegar. 

Vinaigre de Mflres. 

2 Quarts of Blackberries. 

1 Quart of Good French Vinegar, 

Put one quart of blackberries into 
a jar or deep vessel, and pour over 
the vinegar. Let them stand for 
twenty-four hours longer. Strain 
them again, and again add the fruit, 
repeating this operation and letting 
stand twenty-four hours thi:ee times. 
Then strain through a muslin bag, 
and add one pound of white sugar 
to every pint of the liquor, and boil 
the whole in a porcelain kettle for 
half an hour. When cold, bottle it 
and keep it in a cool place. Black- 
berry Vinegar made after this man- 
ner will keep for years, improving 
•with age. 

Currant Vinegar and Cherry Vin- 
egar are prepared in the same man- 
ner as above. 

Orange Vinegar. 

Vinaigre d'Oranges. 
36 Oranges. 
1 Quart of Good French Cider. 
Sugar in Proportion of Two-thirds of a Pound 
to 1 Quart of Orange Syrup. 
Peel the oranges. Slice them very 
thin and cover with pure cider vin- 
egar, and let them stand for thre? 
of four days. Then mash them 
through a cloth, straining as long as 
the juice runs clear. To every quart 
of juice allow one and two-thirds 
pounds of fine white sugar. Then 
boil all together for about ten min- 
utes, and skim very carefully, until 
no scum rises upon the surface. Then 
take the mixture from the fire, and 
when it cools somewhat, bottle it. 
Put a tablespoonful of this extract 
in a glass of cold ice water in warm 
weather, and you will have one of 
the most refreshing of the Creole 
summer drinks; 

Pineapple Vinegar. 

Vinaigre d'Ananas. 

3 Pineapples. 

1 Quart of Pure Cider Vinegar. 

Sugar In the Proportion of Two-thirds of a 

Pound to One Quart of the Juice. 

Cover the pineapples, which you 

will have nicely sliced, with pure 

cider vinegar, and let them stand 

for three or four days. Then mash 

them through a, cloth, straining as 

long as the juice runs clear. To 

every quart, of juice allow one and 



316 



two-thirds pounds of fine white su- 
gar. Then boil all together for 
about ten minutes,, and skim very 
carefully, until no scum rises upon 
the surface. Then take the mixture 
from the fire, and when it cools 
somewhat bottle it. Put a table- 
spoonful of this extract in a glass 
of cold ice water in warm weather, 
and serve as a summer drink. 

Raspberry Vlneg^ar. 

Vinaigre de Pramboises. 
2 Quarts of Baspberries. 
1 Quart of Good French Vinegar. 
Put one quart of raspberries into 
a jar or deep vessel, and pour over 
the vinegar. Let them stand for 
twenty-four hours, and then strain 
through a jelly bag, and add the 
other quart of raspberries, and let 
them stand for twenty-four hours 
longer. Strain them again, and 
again add the fruit, repeating this 
operation of straining and -letting 
stand twenty-four hours three times. 
Then strain through a muslin bag, 
and add one pound of white sugar 
to every pint of the liquor, and boil 
the whole in a porcelain kettle for 
halt an hour. When cold, bottle it 
and keep it in a cool place. Rasp- 
berry Vinegar made ofter this man- 



ner will keep for years, improving 
with age. The Creoles always keep 
it with Strawberry Vinegar or Black- 
berry Vinegar on hand, simply put- 
ting a teaspoonful of it in a glass 
of sweetened ice water. It is a 
most refreshing summer beverage, 
and is especially grateful to the sick 
and delicate. 

Strawberry Vinegar. 

Vinaigre de Praises. 

2 Quarts of Strawberries. 
1 Quart of Good French Vlnegtr. 

Put one quart of strawberries into 
a jar or deep vessel, and pour over 
the vinegar. Let them stand for 
twenty-four hours, and then strain 
through a jelly bag, and add the 
other quart of strawberries, and let 
them stand for twenty-four hours 
longer. Strain thera again, and 
again add the fruit, repeating this 
operation of straining and letting 
stand twenty-four hours three times. 
Then strain through a muslin bag 
and add one pound, of white sugar 
to every pint of the liquor, and boil 
the whole in a porcelain kettle for 
half an hour. When cold, bottle it 
and keep it in a cool place. 



CHAPTER XLIII. 



DOMESTIC WIJfES, CORDIALS AND DRIIVKS. 

Vins, Liqueurs et Boissons de Me- 
nage. 



Under this heading are comprised 
a great variety of fruits distilled in 
wine, or alcohol, or brandy, and 
sweetened or flavored with aro- 
matic substances. These ■ prepara- 
tions are called according to their 
mode of preparation, "Ratafias," 
"Granits," 'X/iqueurs," or "Fruits k 
I'Eau-de-Vie." The Creoles always 
make their own' anisettes, cordials 
and other liqueurs. 

RATAFIAS. 

These are pleasant beverages 
much affected by the Creoles, and 
are very easily prepared by the in- 
fusion of the juices of fruits or of 
the fruits themselves, nuts and odor- 
ous flowers, in good French brandy. 
To these are often added various 
aromatic substances capable of im- 
parting a delightful flavor to the 
liqueur. 

A Ratafla Liqueur is much more 
easily prepared than a cordial; the 
preparation requires far less time, 



and there is no necessity of a dis- 
tilling apparatus. Our Louisiana 
fruits are very juicy, and therefore 
no other liquor than good French 
brandy is or should ever be used 
in preparing a fruit Ratafiia. The 
berries should always be well- 
bruised, to render the Ratafia aro- 
matic and the seeds should be well- 
pounded. If flowers are used, they 
should be just withered and steeped. 
Water should be used very sparingly 
and only in suflScient quantity to 
aid in the diffusion and dissolving of 
the sugar. 

The length of time that Is re- 
quired for the infusion must always 
be in proportion to the nature of. 
the aroma. Good judgment must be 
the final test. If the infusion is too 
short, the flavor will be weak and 
sometimes insipid; if too long, you 
will have a bitter and acrid liquor. 

In order to separate the Ratafla, 
the liqueur must be decanted after 



3L7 



Infusion and strained. It should al- 
ways, however, be allowed to stand 
long enough to settle well before 
the Ratafia is bottled, or there will 
be a thick deposit of sedimeiit, o* 
the liquor will be turbid and murky.- 
All Ratafias must be bottled and 
very closely sealed. It is of the 
unmost importance that they be 
kept in cool, shady places, else the 
spirits will evaporate and the liq- 
ueur itself will slowly but surely de- 
compose. 

Proportions of Ingredients for Rata, 
fla lilqueurs. 

In making Ratafias observe the 
following proportions in mixing the 
Ingredients: 

To three parts of the filtered juice 
of any kind of rfuits or berries add 
one quart of good, old French Cog- 
ac, three pounds of white loaf su- 
gar, clarified, with three pints of 
water, and a dessertspoonful of Es- 
sence of Cloves, Vanilla and Cinna- 
mon. 

These should be thoroughly mixed 
and amalgamated; then the Ratafia 
should be bottled and sealed and 
labeled. Do not use until the end 
of six months; twelve months' 
standing will produce a far finer 
cordial. The Creoles prepare their 
Christmas and New Tear cordials a 
year in adyance, and also the Rata- 
fias, which are served with crushed 
Ice in summer. •, 

Use filtered Mississippi River wa- 
ter in making, all cordials and Ra- 
tafias, and only the finest clarified 
white loaf sugar. < 

HoTT to Filter Cordials and Ratafias. 

The filtering is of the utmost im- 
portance. A good home-made filter 
may be improvised by fitting a piece 
of felt into a funnel, very closely. 
Some use flannel, but the felt is far 
better. Filtering paper is sold by 
all druggists. Put the funnel in the 
mouth of the bottle, fit in the paper, 
pour in the mixture and let it filter 
slowly. Again, others use the ordi- 
nary brown or white paper, but this 
allows the aroma to escape, and the 
taste of the paper clings to the cor- 
dial. If you wish the cordial to be 
very transparent, take very dry, 
clear, transparent isinglass, and cut 
it very, very thin. Then dissolve it 
with white wine until it is perfectly 
liquid. Put it into bottles and pre- 
serve for use. When needed, coat 
the inside of the strainer with this, 
using -a light brush or sponge. It 
will form a glue around the funnel. 
Pour the cordial or liqueur through 
this, straining several times, again 
and again, until it becomes perfectly 
transparent. Strain it the last time 
into bottles, and snal very tight. 
You will then have u, clear, limpid 



cordial or liqueur that will not have 
lost its aroma by evaporation. 

This simple method njay be un- 
derstoo(J by even a child, and home- 
nlade cordials are not .only very de- 
lightful, but far less expensive than 
the imported ones. Always have the 
Cognac as old as possible. 

Absinthe or Worinvrood Ratafla. 

Ratafia d'Absinthe. 

4 Pounds of Wormwood. 
8 Ounces of Junicer Berries, 
2 Ounces of Ground Cinnamon. 

4 Drams of Angelica Rum. 
4 Pints of Good French Brandy. 
iBruise and pound the wormwood 
and juniper berries, and steep them 
with four pints of brandy and the 
Angelica rum for twenty days. Then 
distill the mixture till it is reduced 
to three pounds, and re-distill till 
this is reduced to two pounds or 
two pints. Then add two and a 
half pounds of fine white' powdered 
sugar and two pints of water, fil- 
tered, and eight ounces of doubly- 
distilled orange flower water. Fil- 
ter and bottle. 

Aniseed Ratafia. 

Ratafia d'Anis. 
4 Ounces of Aniseed. 
2 Pints of Good French Cognac. 
1 Pint of Water. 
1^ Pounds of Susar. 
Bruise the aniseed and steep them 
for one month in the brandy. Then 
pass them through a sieve. Add a 
syrup made of one pint of water and 
one pound and a half of sugar. Fil- 
ter and bottle. 

If you wish to make it in larger 
quantities, take two ounces of green 
aniseed, four ounces of star aniseed, 
and after bruising and pounding the 
seeds well, steep ■ them in seven 
quarts of good brandy for one 
month. Then strain and add a syrup 
made- of six pounds and a half of 
sugar and two quarts of river wa- 
ter, filtered. Mix well and then fil- 
ter and bottle. 

Angelica Ratafia. 

Ratafla d'Angelique. 

4 Ounces of Angelica Stalk or Leaves. 
1 Ounce of Anfielica Seed. 
1 Drachm of Nutmee. 
% DracJam of Ceylon Cinnamon. 
1 Drachm of Coriander Seed, 
ii Drachm of Cloves. 
Bruise the seeds and leaves well 
by pounding, and steep for two 
months in an earthen pitcher, well- 
covered, having a'dded all the spices, 
etc. Then take out, strain and add 
a syrup 'made of four and a quarter 
pounds of sugar and two and a half 
pints of water. Filter and bottle, 
and keep in a cool place. 

If you wish to make it in smaller 
quantities, to four ounces of An- 



gelica allow one pint of good bran- 
dy, one-half pint of water, one 
pound of sugar, and spices in pro- 
portion. 

Orange Flower Ratafia. 

Ratafia a, la Fleur d'Oranger. 

2 Pounds of Orange Blossoms. 
10 Pints of Brandy. 
4 Founds of Suzar. 
IVi. Pints of Water. 

Steep two pounds of orange, blos- 
soms, well bruised and pounded, in 
ten and a half pints of good brandy 
for fifteen days, and then add a sy- 
rup made of four ppunds of sugar 
and one and three-quarters pints ot 
water. Filter and bottle. 

Or take a half pound of orange 
flower blossoms, and Infuse them in 
four pints of good brandy for five 
days. Strain through a sieve, add 
a syrup made of three pounds of 
sugar and two pints of water, filter 
and bottle. 

FRUIT RATAFIAS. 

Ratafia de Fruits. 

In all Fruit Ratafias, whether 
strawberries, raspberries, blackber- 
ries, damsons, cherries, plums, red 
and black currants, use the pro- 
portions given above for "Raspberry 
Ratafia," if large quantities are de- 
sired, and the proportions given in 
"Proporitons of Ingredients for Ra- 
tafia Liqueurs" if less. Always mix 
thoroughly and amalgamate well. 
Bottle in pint bottles, well-corked 
and sealed, and do not use for at 
least six months. 

Orange Ratafia. 

Ratafia d'Oranges. 

3 Oranffes. 
The Zest of 3 Oranges. 
1 Pint ot Brandy. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
Grate the zest of three fine Louisi- 
ana oranges, very, very fine. Place 
this oil or zest which you will have 
rubbed on one pound of powdered 
sugar in a jar, add one pint of good 
brandy or alcohol, and the juice of 
three fine oranges, from which you 
will have taken out the seeds. Let 
the infusion stand for three days, 
then filter and bottle for use. 

Feaeli Kernel Ratafia, 

Ratafia aux Noyau de Peches ou 

d'Abricots. 

W Pound Each ot Peach or Apricot Kernels. 

4 Pints of Brandy. 

214 Pounds of Sugar. 

2 Pints ot Water. 

Pound the peach or apricot ker- 
ntis — some also pound the peach 
stones — steep them for one whole 
month in four pints of brandy in an 
earthen jar, and at the end of that 
tl-me add a syrup made of two and a 
half pounds of sugar and two pints 



of water. Mix all well together, and 
then filter as directed above, and 
bottle and seal, and keep in a cool, 
shady place. 

Ratafia de Noyau is one of the 
standing Creole drinks, and is most 
agreeable, the taste being of a deli- 
cate vanilla and almonds combined. 

Pomegranate Ratafia. 

Ratafia de Grenades. 

15 Ripe Ponie;3;ranateB. 

4 Quarts of Good French Brandy. 

3 Founds ot Sucar. 

Cut the pomegranates in slices and 
steep them for fifteen days in the 
brandy. Then squeeze through a 
cloth, add a syrup made with three 
pounds of sugar, and filter and bot- 
tle for use. 

Raspberry Ratafia. 

Ratafia de Framboises. 

8 Founds of Raspberries. 

2 Gallons of Brandy. 
7 Founds of Sugar. 

3 Quarts of Water. 

Steep the berries, which you will 
have mashed well, for one month, or 
at least fifteen days, in the brandy, 
and then add a syrup made of the 
sugar and water. Filter and pro- 
ceed to bottle as directed. 

If smaller proportions are desired, 
use the quantities given in general 
"Proportions of Ingredients for Ra- 
tafias." The larger proportions are 
also given, because the longer the 
Ratafia stands the better it is, and it 
is much easier to make a quantity 
at a time that will last several sea- 
sons. 

Ratafia of Four Frnita. 
Ratafia des Quatre Fruits. 

12 Pounds of Fine, Kipe Cherries, 
3 Founds of Sour Cherries, 

1 Pounds of Currants. 

3 Pounds of Easpherries. 

1 Pint of the Best French Brandy. 

4 Ounces of Sugar to Every Pint of Fruit 

Liquor. 

Stone the fruit and stem the ber- 
ries. Put all together in a bowl, 
and mash well. Let the fruit stand 
lor two hours. Then press out the 
juice through a cloth or sieve. Add 
one pint of the best French brandy 
and four ounces of sugar to every 
pint of liquor obtained. Put hi a 
stone jar, cover tight, and let It 
stand for a month. At the end of 
the time strain and filter. Then bot- 
tle and keep in a cool place. 
Strawberry Ratafia. 
Ratafia de Fraises. 
8 Pounds of Strawberries. 

2 Gallons of Brandy. 
7 Pounds of Sugar. 

3 Quarts ot Water. 

Steep the berries, which you will- 



319 



ha-ve mashed w-sll, for on« montli, or • 
at least fifteen days, in the brandy, 
and then add a syrup made of the 
stigar and water. Filter and 'pro- 
ceed to bottle as directed. 

If smaller proportions are de- 
sired, use the quantities given in 
general "Proportions of Ingredients 
for Ratafias." The larger propor- 
tions are also given because the 
longer the Ratafia stands the bet- 
ter it is, and it is much easier to 
make a quantity at a time that will 
last several seasons. 

FRUIT "WATERS. 

Eau de Fruits Glac§s. 

These are famous Creole summer 
beverages, and are always served to 
friends when visiting of an evening, 
or at evening receptions and reun- 
ions in summer. They are made, for 
the most part, of fruit juices and 
syrups, but they are also made of 
different kinds of punch, and from 
ccffee. 

The Orangeade, the Orgeat and the 
Lemonade, with the Claret Cup, are 
the principal. Unlike the Ratafias, 
they are served soon after concoc- 
tion. In freezing, the Creoles put 
the mixture into water bottles or 
earthen jugs. These are set on ice 
and twirled around. As the contents 
become frozen a wooden spatula is 
thrust into the jar for the purpose of 
Scraping down the portion that is 
frozen into the liquid center. 

Aromatic Water. 

Eau Aromatiaue. 

The Zest of 3 Limea. 

The Zest of 4 Lemons. 

4 Ounces of Orange Flowers. 

1 Ounce of Sweet Basil. 
6 Ounces of Hoarhound. 

7 Pints of Brandy or Alcohol. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Quart of Distilled Water. 

Take the grated, macerated zests- 
of the limes and lemons and the 
bruised fresh orange blossoms, Basil 
and White Hoarhound, and steep it 
In seveia pints of fine French Brandy 
or alcohol for ten days. Then distill 
the liquor by heating in a water 
bath and covering the saucepan with 
a piece of kid. In which you have 
made small holes. Add a syrup made 
of three pounds of sugar and one 
quart of distilled water; strain after 
mixing well, and bottle for use. 

Cherry Water. 

Eau de Cerises. 

2 Pounds of ■ Cherries. 

1 Ijemon. 8 Ounces of Sugar. 

Stone the cherries and press the 

juice from the pulp Into a porcelain 

vessel, and then add a little water 

and the juice of one lemon. Stir well. 



and let stand for two hours. Then 
wash the stones well and pound them 
fine, and add to the cherries, and add 
eight ounces of sugar. Let all stand 
one hour. Then strain the mixtuVe 
and stir well and filter. Set on loe 
till ready to use. Serve in glasses 
with crushed Ice. 

LEMONADE. 

Limonade. 

Lemonade is among the most de- 
lightful and most commonly used 
ot all fruit waters. There are few 
homes in New Orleans in which it 
is not a standing offering for family 
use and for visitors during the hours 
of the long summer day. Lemonade 
is always served very cold in sum- 
mer, but there is a hot lemonade, 
which is extensively used by the 
Creoles during winter days for va- 
rious purposes, mostly medicinal. 

Iced liCmonade. 

Limonade Glac§e. 

1 Dozfin Lemons. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
2 Quarts of Water. Cracked Ice. 

Choose the finest and freshest ripe 
lemons. Rasp- the rind with white, 
crushed sugar, in order to extract 
the fine aromatic oil that lurks in 
the zest. Then squeeze the juice of 
the lemon, and strain it, and add 
the sugar and the necessary quan- 
tity of water. In making lemonade 
never use the rinds of the lemons, 
except to slice one daintily and place 
in the glass when about to serve 
the lemonade. The rind simply put 
into the lemonade does not add 'to 
the strength, but imparts a bitter 
and often disagreeable flavor. Ex- 
tract the fine oils in the rind by 
rasping, as indicated, on crushed su- 
gar. In making cold lemonade for 
six persons, allow si? ounces of su- 
gar to five lemons, and one quart 
of water. Increase the quantity in 
proportion to number to be served. 
Serve with crushed ice. 

Hot Lemonade. 

Limonade Chaude. 

6 J-«mons. 2 Quarts of Water.; 
yz Pound of Sugar. 

Boil the lemons Tvhole and un- 
peeled till the water is reduced to 
one quart. Sweeten and serve. Or 
proceed in exactly the same manner 
as above, using hot water instead of 
cold. The Creoles sometimes boil 
the lemons when used for medicinal 
purposes. 

Frog: Lemonade. 

2 Dozen Lemons. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

2 Quarts of Water. 1 Pineapple. 

2 Bottles of Seltzer Water. 

3 Dozen Fine Strawberries. 

This famous drink was originated' 



320 



In honor of the Picayune Frog at a 
gieat charity festival given in New 
Orleans for the benefit of the News- 
boys" Home. The Picayune, in com- 
mon with other newspapers of the 
city, entered into the festival for 
the purpose of lifting the burden of 
indebtedness that rested on the home. 
It held a booth, presided over by 
the ladies of the Picayune staff and 
a number of the most prominent la- 
dies of New Orleans. A prominent 
Creole lady kept the Picayune Frog 
Tent, in which lemonade only was 
dispensed. She concocted a delicious 
beverage, and named it "Frog Lem- 
onade." The booth was the great at- 
traction of the festival. The Pica- 
yune led the festival, outdistancing 
all other papers three to one as re- 
garded the other largest English 
daily in New Orleans, and running 
far ahead of the various other news- 
papers five and six to . one, in the 
total amount of over fourteen thou- 
sand dollars raised through the fes- 
tival. It was all attributed to the 
great and unfailing popularity of 
the picayune and of its famous lit- 
tle Weither Prophet, the Frog. 

Frog Lemonade is made as follows: 
Take a large punch bowl. Put into 
it one pound of sugar, three quarts 
of water, -the Juice of two dozen 
lemons, the juice of one pineapiit'e, 
two bottles of seltzer water. Mix all 
well. Add three dozen fine, large 
strawberries, and decorate with 
slices of pineapple and lemon sliced 
very thin. In c-ise tliere is not suf- 
ficient sug.ar, sweeten again to taste. 
Put a. large piece of ice in the bowl. 
When ready to serve, fill glasses one- 
duarter full of crushed ice, and fill 
up with the lemonade, (being care- 
ful to tiave several stiawberries and 
a slice or two of lemon and pine- 
apple in each glass. This lemonade 
Is delicious. 

3111k of Almonds. 

Orgeat. 

6 Ounces of Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 

S Ounces of Loaf SusaV. 

3 Pints of Filtered Rlyer Water. 

% Gill of Orange Flower Water. 

Blanch and peel the almonds, and 
Bcak them in cold water for several 
bi.urs. Th3n pound them thoroughly 
Into a pulp, adding as you pound a 
half gill of orange flower water. Put 
this into an earthen vessel with eight 
ounces of the finest and whitest loaf 
sugar. Add three pints of clear, fil- 
tered watsr, and then stir all well 
together. Return to the mortar. 
Pound W3H and strain. Stir well 
and set the vessel on ice. At the 
end of an hour it will be ready for 
use. This is a delightful summer 
firink. 



Orimse Water. 

Eau d'Orange. 

The Zest of 6 Louisiana Orangeg. 
4 Ounces of Oranse Blossoms. 

7 Pints of Brandy. 

i Pounds of Fine White Sugar. 
3 Quarts of Water. 

Macerate the zests of the oranges 
and orange blossoms and orange 
juice in the brandy for eight days. 
Then .listill in a "bain-marie," or 
v/ater bath, as indicated. Add a 
syrup made of four pounds of sugar 
and three pints of water, strain and 
filter, and bottle for use. 

Strawberry water. 

Baa de Fraises. 

% Pint of Strawberry Juice. 
1 Quart of Water. 

8 Ounces of Sugar. 

Choose fine ripe strawberries, 
stem and bruise them in a little wa- 
ter, and let them stand for an hour 
or so. Then squeeze them in a cloth 
and pour the juice off clear. To half 
a pint of the juice add one quart ot 
water and eight ounces of sugar. 
Stir well, strain, and put it on ics, 
and serve as ne2ded during the sul- 
try summer days. 

Raspberry and Currant waster may 
be made in the same way, as also 
pineapple and jrang-^. 

ORANGEADE. 

3 Oranges. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
,4 Ounces of Susar. , 
IV} Pints ot Water. 

The oranges must be ripe, juicy 
Louisiana oranges. Peel one orange 
and cut it in thin slices lengthwise, 
and then put it into a vessel with 
four ounces of sugar and a pint and 
a half of water. Squeeze the juice 
of the lemon and two more oranges 
into another vessel, and stir well. 
Then pour it on the sliced orange. 
Let it stand for a few minutes, and 
it is ready to use. Strain if you 
desire. 

CREAM SYRTJPS. 

SiroDs i la CrSme. 

Cream Syrups are distinctively 
French and were introduced into 
America by the French settlers of 
Louisiana. The early Creole set- 
tlers of New Orleans applied the 
French methods of making syrups 
to our fruits, flowers, herbs, etc., 
and thus we have distinctive Creola 
Cream Syrups. Cream Syrups are 
lighter than Ratafias. 



321 



Abslntlie Cream. 

Crfime d' Absinthe. 

7 Pints of Brandy. 

H Pound of Wormwood Heads. 

The Zest of 2 Lemons. 

3 Oranges, Thinly Sliced, 

6 Pounds of Sugar. 

3 Pints of Water. 

Pound the ■wormwood and infuse 

it for two days In the brandy with 

the zest of the lemons or the sliced 

oranges. Then distill the liquor to 

one-half the quantity. Dissolve six 

pounds of the finest white sugar in 

three pints of water, let it cool, and 

mix thoroughly with the brandy and 

wormwood. Then strain it and put 

In tightly corked bottles. 

Bay Leaf Cream. 

CrSme de Laurier. 

3% Ounces of Laurel Leaf. 

2% . Ounces of Myrtle Flowers. 

1 Gallon of Brandy. 

6 Pounds of White Sugar. 
314 Pints of Water. 

12 ClOTcs. li of a Nutmeg. 
Bruise or pound the bay leaves, 
the myrtle flowers, the coarsely- 
grated nutmeg and the cloves, and 
pour over them one gallon of brandy. 
Then reduce over a gentle fire the 
sugar and water till ■well-dissolved. 
Let it cool. Then mix the Tvholo 
with the bay leaves and brandy, 
mix well, filter, put into tightly 
corked bottles, and preserve. 

Cacoa Cream. 

Cr&me de Cacoa. 

1 Pound of Cacoa Beans. 

2 Quarts of Brandy. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

1 Tablespoontul of Vanilla. 

The Cacao bean may be purchased 
ficm the druggists or first-class 
grocers. Roast the beans to a light 
brown and grind as you would grind 
coffee. Infuse in two quarts (.f 
Brandy for six days. Then make 
a syrup with the sugar and water; 
reduce to one-half and let it cool. 
Then add the Cacao and Brandy. 
Flavor with Vanilla. Strain and 
bottle for use. 

Cherry ■Water Cream. 

Cr&me de Cerises. 

7 Pints of Cherry Water. 

4 Ounces of Orange Flower Water. 
4 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Quart of Water. 

Take seven pints of Cherry Water 
and distill it to nearly one-halt. 
Then add four ounces of Orange 
Flower 'Water. Let it stand for four 
or five hours. Dissolve four pounds 
of sugar in a quart of distilled and 
filtered Mississippi water, and set 
It over the fire till well-blended and 
dissolved. Take it off, and let it 



cool. Then add. the Cherry Water, 
strain and bottle. Tiiis is a most de- 
licious summer beverage, and if kept 
in very tightly corked bottles It 
will keep a very long time. 

Cream of Rosea. 

CrSme de Roses. 

3^ Pounds of Rose Leaves. 
2 Quarts- of Brandy. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Pound the rose leaves in a stone 
vessel, and then pour over the bran- 
dy, and infuse for six days. Distill 
the liquor by boiling to one-half in 
a "bain-marie." Then mix it thor- 
oughly with one pound of sugar, 
dissolved in a quart of water or in 
rose water. Color with a few drops 
of Cochineal, and filter and bottle 
for use. 

ElHxIr of 'Violets. 
Elixir de "Violettes. 

10 Ounces of 'Syrup of Violets. 
4 Ounces of Filtered Raspberry Juice. 

4 Pounds of Sugar. 
2 Quarts of the Best Brandy or Alcohol. 

2 Pints of Water. 

Make a syrup with the sugar and 
water, and let it cool. Mix the vlo- 
let syrup and the Raspberry Juice, 
and add it to the alcohol. Add the 
sugar syrup, when cool, mix all 
thoroughly, strain and bottle tightly. 

Mint Cream. 

CrSme de Menthe. 

1 Pound of Freshly-Gathered Mint. 

The Zests of 5 Lemons. 

7 Pints of Fine Old French Cognac. 

2 Drachms of Essence of Peppermint, 

4 Pounds of Susar. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

Gather the mint very fresh, and 

■wash lightly in fresh water. Cut Ix 

very fine, and add the grated zests 

of the lemons. Pound well in a stone 

jar, and macerate or steep for eight 

days in seven pints of good brandy. 

Then distill it, or boil to one-half, 

covering the spout of the boiler with 

a piece of kid in which you have cut 

small holes. Then add a half drachm 

of essence of peppermint. Dissolve 

four pounds of sugar in three pints 

of water, and let it cool. Then mix 

it thoroughly with the mint infusion 

and let it stand for a half hour. Then 

filter and bottle it, and keep in a 

cool, shady place. 

Mocha Cream. 

Cr&me de Mocha. 

1 Pound of the Best Mocha Coffee. 

The Zest of 1 Orange. 

7 Pints of Brandy. 

4 Pounds of Sugar. 

3 Pints of Water. 

Roast the coffee to a light brown. 



322 



without the least trace of burning. 
Then grind it quiclcly, while it is 
hot, and infuse immediately in seven 
pints of good brandy. Add the zest 
of the orange, cut very fine, and let 
It remain thus for six days. Then 
place in a vessel in a "bain-marie," 
and distill till reduced to one-half. 
Dissolve the sugar and water over 
a slow fire, then let it cool, and mix 
it with the coffee mixture. Filter it, 
bottle and preserve in a cool, shady 
place. 

This "Liqueur de CafS" is a most 
wholesome and pleasant beverage, 
and is considered a peculiarly good 
antidote for dyspepsia, as it facili- 
tates digestion. 

>\.j. FRUIT GRANITS. 

" ' Tj Friilt Juice Granlts. 

Des Granlts. 

All manner of summer fruit bev- 
erages which have been given in thi^ 
chapter, or which will be given, may 
be served as "Granlts," by simply 
freezing them according to the re- 
cipes given above. 

A Granit is only halt frozen, the 
thought being to make it resemble 
snow-frosted Tvater; it must always 
be sufficiently liquid to admit of be- 
ing poured out into glasses and 
passed around to guests. The liq- 
uid may also be frozen in a, freezer, 
but the Creoles cling to the old- 
fashioned water jugs. 

Granlts are favorite drinks in 
France, the custom having been 
adopted from the Italians, who 
served them under the name of 
"Granitii." 

The Granits which are extempo- 
rized from fruits are the most de- 
lightful of all, but they must be 
used at once, or they will become in- 
sipid, when not made into Ratafias 
Or Liqueurs. The following recipe 
for Orange Granit will serve for al- 
most any kind of Fruit Granit. 

Orange Granit, 

Granit d'Orange. 

12 Oranges. 

1% Pints of Orange Juice. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Peel six oranges, removing every 
particle of pulp. Slice nicely and 
place in a dish, and sprinkle over 
them the granulated sugar. Set aside 
for several hours to make a syrup. 
Squeeze the juice from the remaining 
six oranges and add to the syrup 
formed from the other oranges, 
which must be carefully drained of 
all syrup. Add the water; mix well 
and strain. Then turn into a freezer 
and freeze till a light frosting ap- 
pears. Serve In small glasses. 



Straivberry Grantt. 

Granit de Fraises. 

1 Quart of Strawberries. 

1 Tablespoonful of Strawberry ExtracL 

1^ Pounds of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Mash the berries and cover with 
the sugar, and set aside to form a 
syrup. Then drain and press through 
a sieve, extracting all the juice. Add 
the extract. Mix all with the wa- 
ter, and turn into a freezer and 
freeze till a light, snowy frosting 
appears. Then serve in long, thin 
glasses. 

Raspberry Granit. 

Granit de Framboises. 

1 Quart of Raspberries. 
1 Tablespoonful of Raspberry Bztract. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 
Mash the berries and proceed In 
exactly the same manner as for 
Strawberry Granit. 

Cbampagrne Punch. 

Ponche au Vin de Champagne. 

1 Quart Bottle of Champagne. 
1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 
1 Quart of Rhine Wine. 
% of a Pint of Brandy. 
% of a Pint of Curacoa. 
2 Quarts of Seltzer Water. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Large Piece of Ice. 
Take a large punch bowl and dis^ 
solve in it the above quantities of 
sugar, lemon juice, Rhine Wine, 
Champagne, Seltzer Water and Cura- 
Soa. Mix well, and set to cool and 
serve in small punch glasses. The 
above quantity will serve twenty* 
five persons. Reduce or increase the 
quantity of ingredients in propor- 
tion according to the number of 
persons to be served. 

The above punch may be served 
"Frappg," by putting.it into a large 
ice cream freezer and freezing soft. 
Champagne Punch ft la Creole. 

Ponche au Vin de Champagne 3. la 
Creole. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 

1 Quart Bottle of Champagne. 

1_ Quart of Best Whte Wtne. 

'% of a Pint of Curacoa. 

2 Quarts of Seltzer Water. 

% of a Grated Pineapple. 

% ot a Sliced Pineapple. 

3 Dozen Strawberries. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

Take a large punch bowl, and dis- 
solve in it one pound of sugar, one 
pint of lemon juice, one quart of 
White Wine, one quart bottle of 
Champagne, two quarts of Seltzer 
Water, one-eighth of a pint of Cura- 
Qoa, and one-half of a grated pine- 
apple. Mix well. Put in a large 



323 



piece of ice, decorate with straw- 
berries and sliced pineapple, let it 
cool, and serve in small cup glasses.' 
The above quantity will serve twen- 
ty-flve people. 

Cbampasne FrappS, 

Champagne Frappe is made by put- 
ting the above mixture into an ice 
cream freezer and freezing It soft. 

Claret Punch. 

Ponche au Vin. 

1 Quart of tlie Best Claret. 
% Pint of Ice Water. 
% Cnp of Powdered White Sugar. 
2 Lemons, Sliced Thin. 
'Slice the lemons and let them 
stand for ten minutes with the su- 
gar. Add the water and wine. Mix 
well and serve in glasses with 
crushed ice or freeze as directed 
above. 

Claret Punch, Creole Style. 

Ponche au Vin a. la Creole. 
2% Quarts of Claret. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

Vi Quarts of Seltzer or Appolinaris Water. 

1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 
1 Large Piece of Ice. 

2 Lemons, Sliced Very Thin. 

Slice the lemons very thin. Mix all 
the above ingredients together. Add 
the sliced lemons as a garnish, stir 
well, set to cool, and serve in small 
glass cups or punch glasses. The 
above quantity will serve twenty- 
five persons. Reduce or increase 
quantities in proportion to tlie num- 
ber to be served. Claret Punch may 
be trapped by putting into an ice 
cream freezer and freezins soft. 
Hot Claret Punch, 
Ponche au Vin Chaud. 

2 Quarts of Claret. 
IVi Pounds of Sugar. 

6 Oranges. 3 Lemons. 
% Ounce of Cinnamon (Whole Stick). 
Squeeze the juice from the or- 
anges and lemons. Take the peel- 
ing of the oranges and lemons and 
boil with one quart of water and 
the sugar and cinnamon. Strain, and 
then add the claret and lemon juice 
and orange juice; let all come to a 
boil again and serve hot. 
liOUisiana Punch. 
Ponche a, la Louisianaise.' 
2 Quarts of White Burgundy Wine. 

2 Quarts of Seltzer Water. 

1 Pint of Brandy. 
1 Pint of Good Old Cognac. 

1 Pint of Curacoa. 

1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 

i Dozen Cherries. 2 Dozen Strawberries. 

14 of a Sliced Pineapple. 

2 Lemons. , Sliced Very Thin. 

VA Pounds of Sugar. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

Mix the Selizer Water and the 



sugar, add the wine, brandy, Cura-' 
Soa and lemon Juice; stetn and wash' 
the strawberries and the cherries,' 
add, and decorate the punch with 
thin slices of lemon and pineapple. 
Set to cool and serve in small punch 
glasses. The punch may be frapped 
by putting in an ice cream freezer 
and freezing soft. 

Milk Punch. 

Ponche au Lait. 

A Glass of Good Rich Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Brandy or Whisky. 
A Small Quantity of Crushed Ice. 
Dissolve the whisky or brandy and 
sugar together, mix well, and pour 
over the milk. Add a small quan- 
tity of crushed ice and serve. 

Orange Punch, Jietr Orleans Style. 

Poncbe d'Oranges a. la Nouvelle Or- 
leans. , 

6 Louisiana Oranges. 

1 Glass of Rum. 

% Glass of Best Brandy. 

2 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1 Pound of Loaf Sugar. 

1 Small Glass of Cherry Bounce. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

Mix the sugar and water, and the 

rUm and brandy. Add the juice of 

six oranges, and the grated peel of 

three, and let all infuse for one 

hour. Then set to cool. When ready 

to serve add one small glassful of 

Cherry Bounce. Serve in small glass 

cups. 

Rum Punch, 

Ponche au Rhum. 

114 Pints of Best Jamaica Rum. 

li of a Pint of Brandy. 

2 Quarts of Apollinaris or Seltzer Wlater. 

1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 

1 Pint of ■White Wine. 

2 Lemons, Sliced Thin. 
1^ Pounds of Sugar. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

Mix the sugar and water, add the 
liquors, stir well, add the lemon 
juice and the bits of sliced lemon; 
set to cool and serve in small punch 
glasses. This quantity will serve 
twenty-five persons. Reduce or in- 
crease according to the number to 
be served. Frapp6e by turning into 
an Ice cream freezer and freezing 

BOfti 

Stra^rberry Punch. 

Ponche aux Fraises. ,^ 

1% Quarts of Best Champagne or Claret. 

1 Quart of Strawberry Juice. 

2 Quarts of Seltzer Water. 
1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 

1 Pint of Pineapple Juice, 

1% Pounds of Sugar. 

I Large Piece of Ice. 

3 Dozen Fine, Ripe Strawberries. 

Dissolve the sugar and water and 



324 



add the liquor, using eitlier Claret 
or Champagne. Add the fruit juices 
and then the whole strawberries. Set 
to cool and serve in small punch 
glasses. Frapp§e by turning into a 
freezer and freezing soft. The above 
quantity will serve twenty-five per- 
sons. Reduce or increase quantity 
In proportion to guests. 

WTiite Wine Pnncli, 

Ponche au Sauternes. 

2 Quarts of Best Sauternes. 

1 Pint of Old French Cognac. 

1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 

1 Pint of Pineapple Juice. 

1 Quart of Seltzer Water. 

Vz Grated Pineapple. 
% of a Sliced Pineapple. 

2 Dozen Cherries. 
1 Lar^e Piece of Ice. 

Mix the sugar and water, add the 
liquors and the fruit juices and the 
grated and sliced fruit. Stir well, 
set to cool and serve in small glass 
cups. The above quantity will serve 
twenty-five persons. Reduce or in- 
crease the quantity of ingredients in 
proportion to the number of person-s 
to be served. This punch may be 
trapped by simply turning into an 
Ice cream freezer .and freezing soft. 

White Wine Punch, Creole Style. 

Ponche au Sauternes a la CrSoIe. 

2% Quarts of Sauterne. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Lemon Juice. 

% Pint of Brandy. 

1 Quart of Seltzer Watpf. 

% of a Grated Pineapple. 

% of a Sliced Pineapple. 

2 Dozen Cherries. 
Sprigs of Fresh Young Mint. 

Take a. large punch bowl, and put 
one pound of sugar into it, with one 
pint of lemon juice, two and a half 
quarts of Sauterne (White Wine), 
half a pint of brandy, two quarts of 
Apollinaris or Seltzer, one-half of a 
grated pineapple. Decorate with 
sliced pineapple and whole cherries 
and sprigs of fresh young mint; put 
In a large piece of ice, and let it 
cool, and serve in small glass cups. 

Tea Punch. 

Ponche au The. 

1 Quart of Strong Tea. 

French Brandy or Wine- or Rum to Taste. 

6 Lemons. Vk, Pounds of Sugar. 

Squeeze the juice from the lemons 
and grate the zest. Add this to one 
quart of boiling tea, and add the su- 
gar. Dissolve well. Let it boil up 
three times, take off the fire, and 
add rum, brandy or wine to taste. 



It may be served hot, or bottled, 
and kept for future use, in which 
case it is served with crushed ice. 

CUPS. 

Ponches. 

Cups are a form of punch that are 
frequently used when a smaller 
quantity is desired or when it is 
wished to make a refreshing drink 
for delicate members of the house- 
hold. One quart cup will serve six 
persons. A pint cup will serve 
three. The Cup is served in a. very 
delicate, thin tumbler. 

Burgundy Cup. 

Ponche au Vin de Bourgogne. 

1 Pint of Good Old Burgundy. 

1 Sliced Lemon. 1 Orange. 

A Dash of Old French Cognac. 

% Pint of Seltzer Water. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

Vi Cup of Sugar. 

Dissolve the sugar and lemon and 
orange juice and add the liquors and 
water. Decorate with the sliced 
lemon and sprigs of green mint. 

CInret Cup. 

Ponche au Vin. 

1 Pint of Good Claret. 

1 Pony of Curacoa. 1 Orange, Sliced. 

A' pash of French Cognac. 

Vi Cup of Loaf Sugar. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Dissolve the sugar and lemon 
juice. Add the Claret, Curagoa, 
Brandy and sliced orange and lemon 
juice. Put to cool. . When ready 
to serve pour into a thin, small tum- 
bler and decorate the top with a 
sprig of fresh green mint. 

This "Claret Cup" is also made 
by preparing one quart of "Orange- 
ade" (see recipe), and adding one 
quart of Claret. Freeze as directed, 
or serve with crushed ice, having the 
glasses half full of the pounded ice. 

Champagne Cup. 

Ponche au Vin de Champagne. 

1 Pint of Champagne. 

1 Lemon, Sliced. 1 Sliced Orange. 

A Dash of Old French Cognac. 

'A Pint of Seltzer Water. 

A Dash of Curacoa. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

IMix the sugar and water; add the 
liqueurs, and the sliced orange and 
lemon, and the ice. Stir well and 
let cool. Serve in gmall, thin tum- 
blers, and decorate with a piece of 
fresh green mint on top. 



325 



Moselle Cud. 

Ponohe au Vin de Moselle. 

1 Pint of Moselle Wine. 

1 Sliced Lemon. 1 Sliced Oranse. 

A Dash of Good Brandy. 

A Dash of Maraschino. 
Vi Pint of .Seltzer Water. 
^ The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
^ of a Grated Pineapple. 

1 Larse Piece of Ice. ^ 
% Tablespoonful of Sugar. 

Mix the sugar and water, add the 
wine and the liqueurs, and the juice 
of the lemon and sliced orange and 
lemon, and the grated pineapple. Stir 
well. Let cool, and serve in small 
thin tumblers. Decorate the top 
with sprigs of fresh green mint. 

Military Cnp. 

Ponche Militaire. 

1 Bottle of Claret. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1 Bottle of Seltzer '^fater. 

The Juice and Rind of 3 Lemons. 

1 Cordial Glass of Benedictine. 

Vi Pound of Sugar. 

1 Cordial Glass of Cherry Bounce. 

A Few strawberries or French Cherries. 

Take one bottle of claret and pour 
into a punch bowl with two quarts 
of water. Add one bottle of Seltzer 
water and a half pound of sugar and 
the juice and rind of three lemons. 
Stir all well and add a dash of old 
French Cognac, a cordial glass of 
Benedictine and of Cherry Bounce, 
and put sufficient ice in the bowl to 
make the Punch very cold. Serve 
with a few Strawberries or French 
Cherries in each glass and place a 
sprig of fresh young mint on top. 

White Wine Cup. 

Ponche au Sauternes. 

1 Pint of Best Sauterne. 

% of a Sliced Lemon. % of a Sliced , Orange.' , 

A Dash of Old French Cosnac. 

A Dash of Maraschino. 

1 Cup of Pineapple Juice. 

1 Large Piece of Ice. 

li Pint of Seltzer Water. 

Vi Cup of Sugar. 

Dissolve the sugar and the Seltzer 
water, add the wine and fruit juices 
and liquor. Add the cherries and 
sliced lemon and orange. Stir well. 
Let cool and serve in small, thin 
tumblers. Decorate the tops with 
sprigs of fresh green mint, with two 
or three cherries laid on top. 

Hot W^hlsky Punc>h. 

Ponche au Whisky Chaud. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Best Old Bourbon. 

3 Lumps of Loaf Sugar. 

^ of a Lemon. 

Hot Water to Pill One Tumbler. 

Squeeze the juice from a quarter 
of a lemon and dissolve with the 



sugar. Add the whisky and let all 
dissolve well. Fill with hot water; 
stir well, and add a little grated 
nutmeg, it desired, and serve hot. 

Brandy Stevr. 

Cognac Chaud k la Creole. 

1 Glass of Fine Old French Cognac. 
1 Tablespoonful of the Best Butter. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 
1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 
Vi Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 
% Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon and 
Allspice. 
Have a nice porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan. Melt the butter and sugar over 
a clear Are, blending well, and add- 
ing almost immediately tife ground 
cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Let 
it stew slowly and add the brandy 
or good old Bourbon or Rye whisky 
very carefully, so that it will not 
take fire. Stir well, and let it bub- 
ble up once or twice, and then take 
off the Are and add the grated nut- 
meg. 

This is a very delicate stew, and 
is offered to the sick and those suf- 
fering from severe cold. It is held 
as an infallible cure for a cold- in 
twenty-four hours. 

Hot Stews of Whisky, Rum, Gin, 
Claret, Sherry, Madeira or Port Wine 
may also be prepared according to 
the above ancient formula. 

Hot Spiced Port. 

"Vin d'Oporto Chaud a la Crgole. 

1 Lump of Sugar. 

2 Cloves. 3 Allsplce- 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Old Port Wine. 

A Dash of Grated Nutmeg. 

A Bit of Lemon Peel. 

Take a small mixing glass and 
dissolve the sugar in a little warm 
water. Add the Allspice and Cloves, 
ground well. Add the Port Wine. 
Fill with hot water and add a bit 
of lemon peel, fetir well. Grate a 
little nutmeg on top and serve very 
hot. 

Hot Spibed Sherry, Madeira, Bran- 
dy, Whisky, Rum or Claret may be 
prepared according to the above re- 
cipe. 

Wine Cobblers. 

1 Wineglassful of Sherry or Any Other Wine. 

A Small Piece of Lemon Peel. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sugar or Syrup. 

Cobblers may be made with Port, 
Sherry, Rhine, Moselle, Catawba or 
Muscadine Wine or Vin Muscat. Take 
a glass, put in a tablespoonful of 
sugar or syrup, a small piece of cut 
lemon peel, one wineglass of Sherry 
or any other of the above wines, 
and then fill the glass with crushed 
ice. Stir well. Decorate the mix- 
ture with sprigs of fresh mint or 
strawberries or sliced pineapple, and 
serve. 



326 



Sherry Cobbler. 

1 Quart of Lemonade. 

% Bottle o( Sherry or any Other Wine. 
Small Bltb of Lemon Peel. 

To one quart of lemonade add half 
a bottle of Sherry and proceed to 
freeze as directed above, or hand 
around in glasses' half full of 
crushed ice. Add a little lemon peel. 

Slnsaree, Hot or Cold. 

gangaree. Chaud ou Froid. 

1 Cup of Claret. 

1 Cup' of Boiling Water. 

6 Whole Cloves. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of 3ugar. 

, 12 Whole Allspice. 
2 Inches of Stick Cinnamon. 
Grated Nutmeg to Taste. 

Boil the water and spices for fif- 
teen minutes, till the water is thor- 
oughly, flavored with the spices. 
Then remove from the fire and dis- 
solve the sugar in it. Put the Claret 
Into a pitcher. Strain the water and 
Sugar into it. Flavor with the nut- 
meg, and add more sugar, if neces- 
sary, to taste. Serve hot immedi- 
ately. 

This is a winter drink. It is 
served cold in summer simply by 
mixing' the wine and water and su- 
gar and adding the juice of a lemon 
or orange, a little lemon peel and 
grated nutmeg. 

Mint Jnlep & la CrSoIe. 

i Large Cut Glass Pilled With Water. 

- 3 Lumps of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Good Brandy or WHiIsky. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

A Bit of Lemon or Orange Peel. 

6 Sprigs of Fresh Young Mint. 

A Few Eipe Strawberries. 

. Take one large cut glass, half fill 
with water, add six sprigs of fresh 
mint, three lumps of sugar. Stir 
well, till the sugar is absorbed. Add 
a tablespoonful of good brandy or 
whisky, and stir well. Add a little 
lemon and orange peel, and the Juice 
of half a lemon; If desired. Fill the 
glass with crushed ice, and decorate 
on top with sprigs of mint. Place 
a few ripe strawberries on top of 
tho mint, " sprinkle lightly with 
crushed sugar, and serve. This julep 
was a famous offering at the ancient 
plantation homes of Louisiana. Sliced 
orange or sliced pineapple is fre- 
quently added. 

EGG-NOG. 

10 Fine, Fresh oreole Eggs. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

1 Pound of White Granulated Sugar. 

1 Gill of Fine French Cognac. 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 

Beat the yolks to a cream, add the 
sugar, and beat to a cream. Blend 



all thoroughly, beating till very, 
very light. Now pour over the boil- 
ing milk, stirring well. 'When thor- 
oughly blended add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and the 
liquor, and serve hot. This egg-nog 
is also served cold by the Creoles at 
New Tear's receptions. At the fa- 
mous Christmas and New Tear Re- 
veillons it is served hot. The liquor 
may or may not be added, according 
to taste. 

EsB ond Wine. 

Oeuf au "Vin. 

1 Egg. 

1 ^Tablespoonful of Sherry or Port Wine. 

1 Tablespoonful or Teaspoonful of 

Sugar. 

Beat the. yolk of the egg to a 
cream in a tumbler, and add the su- 
gar, and beat till very light. Then 
add the Sherry or Port, according to 
■ taste. Beat the whites to a stid 
froth, and then beat it into the yoik 
and wine. Add a little grated nut- 
meg. This is excellent for invalids, 
and is offered to them by the Creoles 
as a morning or evening tonic. 

FRAPPfiES. 

Any Liqueur or Beverage -may be 
served "au Frapp6e" by filling a 
glass with crushed ice, ,pouring the 
beverage over and serving very 
cold, in almost a freezing state. 

Absinthe FrappSe. 

A Small Glass Filled With Finely-Crushed 

Ice and Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Absinthe. 

A Dash of Anisette. 

Mix the Absinthe and Anisette to- 
gether, strain into small, thin 
glasses, -with crushed ice and water; 
let the ■ mixture get very cold and 
serve immediately. The Absinthe 
may be served without the Anisette. 
Some, add the white of an egg. But 
this is according to taste. 

The above is the recipe that used 
to be used in old Creole days at the 
famous old Absinthe House, in Bour- 
bon Street. 

Creme de Menthe FrappCe. , 

A Small Sherry Glass Filled With 
Crushed Ice. 
Two Tablespoonfuls of Creme de Menthe 
J (White or Green.) 

Fill a glass with finely-crushed ice 
pour over the CrSme de Menthe, and 
serve very cold. 

Crfime de Noyau FrappCe. 

1 Claret Glass Filled With Crushed Ice. 
2f Tablespoonfuls of Creme de Noyaii: 

Put two tablespoonfuls of Cr6me 
de Noyau in a glass of finely-crushed 
i,ce and Seltzer and serve at almost 
freezing point. 



327 



Cr6me de Vlolette, CrSme de Cacoa, 
Cr6me de Curagoa may all be served 
in the same manner. 

Coffee FrappSe, 

Cafe Frapp§. 

S Tablespoonfuls of Coftee (Black and Very 
Strona:.) 
A Dash of Old French Cognac. 
2 Teaspoonfnls of Sugar. 
Take a large glass, mix the above 
Ingredients together, fill with finely- 
crushed ice, and pour into a small 
Burgundy glass, and serve very cold. 
Pousse CafS. 

1 Teaspoonful of Anisette. 

1 Teaspoonful of Curacoa. 

1 Teaspoonful of Benedictine or Chartreuse. 

1 Teaspoonful of Good Old Bourbon or 

Cognac. 

Mix all the above Ingredients in 
a small glass, and serve cold, or 
otherwise, as preferred. 

A Pousse Caf§ is also made by 
putting a teaspoonful of Chartreuse, 
Benedictine or old Cognac or Bour- 
l)on into the after-dinner cup of CafS 
Noir. 

Vermouth FrappC. 

1 Teaspoonful of French Vermouth. 

1 Dash of Orange Bitters. 

A Dash of Syrup. 

A Bit of Lemon Peel. 

Finely Crushed Ice. 

Mix all the above ingredients well 

together, stir w^ell and strain into a 

small Punch glass, and serve very 

cold. 

Appetizer, 

A Dash of Absinthe. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vermouth. 
1 Dash of Pepsin. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Seltzer Water. 
Finely Crushed Ice. 
Fill a glass with finely-crushed ice, 
and add the above ingredients; shake 
well together, pour into a small, del- 
icately thin tumbler, and serve cold. 

Old-Fasliloned Creole Cocktails. 

1 Tablespoonful of Good Old Bourbon, Cognac, 
Gin, Sherry or Vermouth. 

2 Lumps of Loaf Sugar. 

A Piece of Ice About the Size of an Egg. 

A Bit of Lemon Peel. 

The Juice of 1 Orange. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ijemon Juice. 

Take a large glass, put the lump 
sugar in, and mix with about three 
tablespoonfuls of Seltzer, dissolving 
the sugar well. Now add the lemon 
peel and the juices of the orange 
and lemon. Add one tablespoonful of 
good old Bourbon or Sherry or any 
of the above-mentioned liqueurs, ac- 
cording to the cocktail desired. Stir 
well, and serve with delicate sprigs 
of freshly-gathered mint on top. 
Some add a few cherries; these tend 
to Improve the flavor. 



CORDIALS AND DOMESTIC 
WINES. 

Liqueurs de M6nage. 

Cordials are made by distilling 
brandy, rum, alcohol, etc., with aro- 
matic substances, and then diluting 
with water and sweetening with su- 
gar or syrup. 

Cordials should always be soft, 
m.ellow, light and transparent. Only 
the best white clarified loaf sugar, 
the best filtered river water, and 
the best Cognac or Brandy or al- 
cohol should be used in making 
them. The sugar should always be 
boiled to a syrup. 

The cordials should be filtered. 
The spirits should always be rectified 
in advance. It is quite possible to 
purchase the rectified spirits, and a 
great deal of trouble is saved to 
thpse who do not understand home 
methods of distillation. 



ANISETTE. 

10 Drops of Oil of Aniseed. 

3 Pints of Alcohol. 

2 Pounds of the Finest White Clarified Loaf 

Suffar. 

1% Pints of Water. 

Make a syrup >with the water and 
sugar, and clarify. (See recipe.) 
When cold, add the aniseed oil, which 
has been well-dissolved in the al- 
cohol. Mix all well, filter and bot- 
tle tightly. 

Anisette de Bordeaux. 

10 Ounces of Green Aniseed. 
4 Ounces of Star Aniseed. 

1 Ounce of Coriander. 
2 Ounces of Hyson Tea. , 

1 Ounce of Fennel. 
3% Gallons of Alcohol. 
' 10 Pounds of Sugar. 
7 Pints of Water. 

The above ingredients may be pur- 
chased from first-class druggists and 
grocers. Take the aniseed, corian- 
der, fennel. Hyson tea, and pound 
well. Then macerate or steep for 
fifteen days in three and a half gal- 
lons of the finest rectified alcohol. 
After this distill in a "bain-marie," 
or water bath, according to direc- 
tions already given. Then make a 
syrup with the ten pounds of sugar 
and seven pints of water. Mix well 
with the aniseed liquor and filter. 
Then bottle and keep in a cool, shady 
place. Several large bottles of Ani- 
sette Will be the result of the above 
quantities after distillation. The 
quantities may be reduced or In- 
creased in proportion to the amount 
It Is desired to make. 



328 



Blackberry Cordial, 

Llaueur de Mures. 

2 Quarts of Blackberry Juice. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 

Vi Ounce of Ground Cloves. < 

^ Ounce of Allspice. 

1 Pint of the Best French Brandy. 

Boil eight quarts of blackberries in 
a porcelain-lined pot till the juice is 
all extracted. Then take o£E the flre 
and press out all the juice through 
a flannel bag. This quantity will 
make about two quarts. Add the su- 
gar, allowing one glass of sugar al- 
ways to two glasses of blackberries, 
if you wish to make larger quan- 
tities than the above measurements. 
Add the cloves and the allspice, and 
set on the flre, and let it come to a 
good boil. Let it boil up several 
times. Then take off, strain and 
add the brandy. Bottle while hot. 
Cork well and seal, and set away in 
a cool place, to be used after two 
months. The longer this excellent 
cordial is kept, the better it will be. 
It is very grateful to the sick, and 
can be supported by the most deli- 
cate stomachs. 

Cltronelle. 

The Zest of 30 Lemots. 

The Zest of 4 Oranges. 
3% Quaits of Alcolnd. 
2^ Pounds of Sugar. 
% Drachm Each of Cloves and Nutmeg. 

Grate the zests of the lemons and 
oranges, and grate the nutmeg and 
grind the cloves. Mix well. Then 
pour over the alcohol, and steep for 
fifteen days. Distill in a "bain-ma- 
rie," or water bath, and add the 
syrup made with two and a half 
pounds of sugar and one quart of 
water. Bottle and keep in a cool, 
shady place. 

Cnraeoa. 

The Zest of 1 Dozen Fine liOuislana Oranges. 

3 Fine Lemons. 

3 Quarts of Fine Old French Cognac. 

3% Pounds of Sugar. 

l' Quart of 'Water. 

Grate the zests of the fruit as 
carefully as possible, so as to pre- 
serve the fine aromatic oils, and 
without touching the white pulp. 
Then put the zests in a large glass 
bottle or vessel that can be closed 
tightly, and pour over the brandy. 
Shake well, and let it stand for fif- 
teen days, each day shaking the bot- 
tle well, to agitate the juices. Make 
a syrup with the sugar and water, 
first beating Into the sugar the 
whites of two eggs, to make the in- 
fusion very clear. Then mix with 
the water and strain. Add it to the 
syrup of brandy and lemons, bottle 
and cork well. Shake the bottles 
and let them stand for fifteen days 



longer, agitating each day. At the 
end of this time filter the liquor and 
bottle tightly for use. 

A more simple Curagoa, but not so 
excellent, is made by taking the zest 
of one dozen oranges, three-quarters 
of a drachm of cinnamon and one- 
quarter of a drachm of mace. Blend 
these well together, and steep in 
three pints of alcohol for fifteen 
days. Then distill in a water bath, 
and add a syrup made of two and a 
quarter pounds of sugar and three- 
fourths of a quart of water. Mix 
well, color lightly with Caramel, and 
bottle for use. 

FRUIT CORDIALS, 

Liqueurs de Fruit. 
2 Quarts of Juice. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 

ii Ounce of Ground Cloves, 

Va. Ounce of Allspice. 

1 Pint of the Best French Brandy. 

Strawberry Cordial, Raspberry Cor- 
dial, Cherry and Grape Cordial, etc., 
are made in the same manner as 
Blackberry Cordial. (See recipe.) 

Kununel. 

1 Quart of the Best Rectified Alcohol, 

30 Drops of Kummel Oil. 

1 Quart of Boflln? Water. 

2 Pounds of the Finest White Loaf Sugar. 

Pour the boiling water over the 
sugar and stir till dissolved. Bring 
to a boil, and let it continue boiling 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Strain, and when luke warm, add the 
oil and the alcohol. Bottle and keep 
for at least two months before 
using. The oil is obtained from drug- 
gists. 

Nectar. 

Nfictar. 

4 Ounces of White Honey. 

2 Ounces of Coriander. 

6 Ounces of Fine White Pulverized SngaiL 

3 Quarts of Water. 

1 Ounce of the Fresh Zest of Lemon. 

1 Ounce of Cloves. 

X Ounce of Benzoine. 

1 Ounce of Storax Calamlte. 

Vi Drachm of Tincture of Vanilla. 

4 Ounces of Orange Flower Water. 

5 Quarts of Highly Eeetifled Spirits. 

Pound to a powder all the ingred- 
ients which require it, mix with 
the honey, benzoin, etc., pour over 
the alcohol, and steep for fifteen 
days. Then distill the liquor till it 
is reduced to four quarts, using a 
water bath, or bain-marie, for the 
distillation. Make a syrup of six 
pounds of fine white sugar, add the 
Vanilla, color a deep red with Coch- 
ineal, and add to the liquor. Blend 
and shake well, bottle and keep In 
a cool place. 



329 



Farfnlt Amour. 

2 Ounces of Zest of Liemons. 
4 Ounces of > Zest of Liines. 

2 f)rachma of Cloves, 

3 Sprigs of Rosemary Leaves. 

A Handful of Orange Blossoms. 

Z^i, Gallons of Alcohol. 

10 Pounds of Susar. 

& Quarts of Water. 

Grate the zests of the lemons and 
limes carefully, without touching the 
white inner pulp. Bruise the rose- 
mary leaves and orange blossoms 
and steep in the alcohol fifteen days. 
Then make a syrup with the sugar 
and water, add the liqueur, distill 
and filter, color lightly with Cochi- 
neal, and bottle for use. 

Perslcot. 

10 Ounces of Bitter Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Cinnamon. 

2',i Gallons of Alcohol or Fine Brandy. 

6 Pounds of Susar. 

3 Quarts of Water. 

Peel the almonds and pound and 
mix with the cinnamon, and steep 
for fifteen days in the alcohol. Then 
distill in a water bath, add the 
syrup, color with Cochineal or Cara- 
mel, and bottle for use. 

Sassafras Mc^ad. 

Boisson au Sassafran. 

4 Bunches of Sassafras Itoota. 

1V4 Pints of Honey. 
3% Pints of Louisiana Molasses. 
1 Tablespoonful of Cream of Tartar. 
% Teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. 
This is a noted Creole summer 
drink, and is pref>ared as follows: 
Take the roots of sassafras, attd 
make about two quarts of Sassafras 
Tea. Strain well. Set to boil again, 
and when it boils add one and one- 
half pints of honey, and three and 
one-half pints of Louisiana Syrup or 
Molasses. Add a tablespoonful of 
Cream of Tartar. Stir well and set 
to cool. When cool strain it. Take 
about a dozen clean bottles and fill 
with the mixture. Cork very tight, 
and put in a cool place. In a day it 
will be ready for use. When serv- 
ing this Mead, take a glass and fill 
half full with ice water. Add a ta- 
blespoonful of the Mead and stir in 
a half teaspoonful of Carbonate of 
Soda. ■ It will immediately foam up. 
Drink while effervescing. This is a 
cheap, pleasant and wholesome sum- 
mer beverage in our clime. The 
above recipe has been in use in Cre- 
ole homes for generations. 
Blacfcberry Wine. 
Vin de Mflres. 
4 Quarts of Currant Juice. 
1 1-3 Quarts of Cold Water. 

3 Pounds of Grdiulated Sugar. 

Mix all the above ingredients well 
together, and then let them stand 
for twenty-four hours, having, of 



course, obtained the currant juice by 
cleanly picking, washing and drying 
and pressiijg the berries. Then let 
it stand for two days. After this 
skim well, and set in a cool place to 
ferment slowly for at least six days. 
At the end of this time remove any 
froth that has collected, and add a 
half teacupful of the best French 
Brandy, ^nd close tightly. In two 
days, when it is well-settled, draw 
off, without disturbing the sediment, 
and bottle tightly and seal. This 
wine improves with age. Always 
have the bottles very clean and dry 
before bpttling, and if larger pro- 
portions are used and a cask is ne- 
cessary, remember that an old cask 
Is more desirable than a new one. 
on account of the taste of the wood, 
and that the cask must be perfectly 
fresh and sweet-smelling, or the 
wine will sour. 

Currant Wine. 
Vin de Groseiiles. 

4 Quarts of Currant .Tuice. 
1 1-3 Quarts of Cold Water. 
3 pounds of Granulated Sugar. 
Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as. Blackberry Wine. 
Elderberry Wine. 
Vip de Fleurs de Sureau. 

1 Peck of Elderberries. 
2% Gallons of Water. 

Vi Pound of Sugar. 
H Pint of Hop Yeast. 

Bruise the Elderberries, and then 
dilute w(th the water and boil for 
ten rtiin^tes. Then strain well and 
press out the juice from the berries. 
Measure the whole, and add the su- 
gar, and while half warm the yeast. 
Let the wftole ferment for ten days. 
Then cork ^^ell. After three months 
,draw off the wine and bottle for 
use. ' 

In making large quantities of this 

wine, which is used by the Creoles 

for many medicinal purposes, allow 

four pecks of elderberries to every 

ten gallons of water, and to every 

quart three-qVlp-rters of a pound of 

sugar and a l^^jlf pint of yeast. 

nfuscaifllne W^Inc. 

Vin de Muscades. 

4 Quarts of Muscadine Juice. 

1 1-3 Quarts of Cold Water. 

3 Pounds of granulated Suffar. 

Prepare in exaQtly the same man- 
ner as Blackberry Wine. 

Louisiana O'ange Wine. 

Vin d'Oranges ^e la Louisiane. 

3 Pounds 6f Sugar to Jlver.v Gallon of juice. 

1-3 of a Gallon of Water. 

The White of 1 Egg. 

1 Calie of ComiJ^'essed Yeast. 

Take fine Louisiana oranes, and 
wash them well. Tl^en dry with a 



330 



cloth, and peel off the yellow outer 
rind very, very thin, and strain 
all the juice throug-h a haip sieve, 
three pounds of granulated sugar, 
the white and shell of one egg, to 
clarify, and one-third of a gallon 
of water. Put the sugar, the crushed 
eggshell and white of the egg, beat- 
en to a froth, in a porcelain-lined 
saucepan, and add the water, and 
boil to a syrup, stirring constantly 
to prevent the egg from hardening. 
Let the syrup boil till it looks clear 
when seen through the froth of the 
egg, ■which will rise to the surface. 
Then strain . the syrup, and pour it 
over the graced orange zest, and let 
It stand for tweiity-four hours. Then 
add the orange juice, and strain, 
and put it into a cask with a small 
cake of compressed yeast, allowing 
half a cake to five gallons of wine. 
Close tightly, but leave the bung out 
of the cask until the wine ceases 
to ferment. As long as fermentation 
is progressing there will be a hiss- 
ing sound. When this ceases the 
fermentation has ceased. Then add 
a glass of good brandy for each gal- 
lon of wine, close the cask, drive in 
the bung, and let the wine stand for 
at least nine months. Then bottle 
it, and about four months after it 
has been bottled it will be ready for 
use. This is an excellent Louisiana 
wine, and can be made with litttle 
expense. 

Scuppernon^ Wine. 

Vin de Muscades. 

■ " 4 Quarts of Scuppernong Jnlce. 
1 1-3 uarts of Cold Water. 
3 Pounds of Granulated Suzar. 

P/fepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as Blackberry Wine. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Strawberry Wine. 

Vin de Praises. 

4 Quarts of Strawberry Juice. . 

1 L-3 Quarts of Cold Water. 

3 Founds of Granulated )Sugar. 

Follow in every respect the re- 
cipe given for Blackberry Wine.) 

ROOT BBBR. 

BiSre Creole. 

H Pint of Boot Beer Extract (Hire's 

Solution). 

10 Pounds of Suzar. 

10 Gallons of Lukewarm, Filtered Mississippi 

Elver Water. 

1 Pint ot Yeast, or IH Cakes of Compressed 

Yeast. 

Dissolve the sugar thoroughly in 
the water, and then add the Root 
Beer Extract and the yeast. If you 
Use the cake yeast, dissolve It first 
In a little water, so that it will mix 
well with the beer. Stir until thor- 
oughly mixed, and then bottle in 
strong bottles or in jugs, corking 



and tying the corks very securely, 
so that the gas may not escape from 
the solution. Then set the beer, away 
in a place of even temperature. It 
will be r^ady for use in twenty-four 
hours after bottling, or even ten, 
but win be far more effervescing if 
allowed to stand three or four days. 
Always place the bottle on ice or 
in a very cool place just before open- 
ing it, if you wish it to be cool, 
sparkling and delicious. 

SFRVCEl BEIBR. 

Bi&re de Sapin. 

Take sprigs of spruce and boil 
until you have an ounce of strong 
essence. Take one ounce of hops and 
a spoonful of ginger, and put them 
Into a gallon of water. When well- 
boiled, strain the mixture, and add 
a pint of Louisiana Molasses or a 
pound of "brown "sugar, and tlien add 
the extract of Spruce. When cool 
add a teacupful of yeast (home- 
made), and put all into a clean, tight 
cask, and let it ferment for twenty- 
four hours or two days. Then bot- 
tle for use. Essence of Spruce may 
be purchased and used instead of 
the sprtgs of spruce, or the Spruce 
Gum may be boiled. The Creoles 
always use the sprigs, or spruce 
bark rich with gum. 

■GINGBR BBBR. 

BiSre de Gingembre. 

2 Ounces of Bruised. Ginger Root, 
2 Ounces of Cream of Tartar, 

4 Quarts ot Boillns Water. 
Tlie Juice and Rind of 1 Lemon. 

IH Pounds of Granulated Susar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Yeast, or ^ of a Caks. 
Bruise and pound the ginger well, 
and put it into a bowl with the boil- 
ing water. Add the juice of a lemon 
and the well-grated zest. Add the 
Cream of Tartar and the sugar, mix- 
ing and stirring constantly. When 
it is lukewarm add the yeast, dis- 
solved in a little water. Mix well 
and cover tightly, and let it stand 
for six hours. Then strain it and 
put it into bottles with patent tops 
and keep In a cool place. It effer- 
vesces rapidly if not kept most se- 
curely corked. 

DOMESTIC BEVERAGEIS. 

Boissons de M6nage. 

Under the heading of "Domestic 
Beverages" might properly be 
classed Coffee, Tea, Chocolate and 
Cocoa, daily drinks in almost every 
Creole household. 

TEA. 

Du Th6. 

Tea has a stimulating and grate- 
ful effect when not taken In ex- 
cess, and promotes digestion. 

The Creoles use most exclusively 



331 



the black and green tea mixed, pre- 
ferring the flavor always of the 
Hyson, Oolong-, Bohea, Gunpowder 
or Heno. Like Coffee, Tea should 
never be boiled. It should always 
be made from fresh boiling water, 
and never in any but an_ earthen or 
agate teapot. Tea made in earthen 
tea urns requires longer to draw 
than if made in bright metal pots. 
Tea should never be suffered to 
stand long, as it acquires an un- 
pleasant taste and loses it delight- 
ful aroma and fragrance. 

The spout of the teapot should 
always be closed by a cover, secured 
by a chain, to prevent the escape of 
t^e aroma, and the urn itselj shouia ,. 
be closed at the top with a tightly- 
fitting cover. 

To make good tea, first see that 
the teapot is perfectly clean. Then 
pour boiling water into it, and let 
It stand for five minutes, so that 
the metal or earthen urn may be- 
co'me thoroughly heated. Then 
throw ont this water, and drain 
the urn well. Allow a teaspoonful 
of tea for each cup of boiling water, 
or, if you desire stronger tea, al- 
low two teaspoonfuls. Put this tea 
Into the hot pot, and pour over one 
pint of boiling water, if you wish 
to make a quart, or, according to 
the quantity desired, one-half a cup 
of water to each cup. Let this so- 
lution draw for five minutes in front, 
not on top, the stove or range, as tea 
that has the least indication of boil- 
ing is condemned by the best ethics 
of Creole Cookery. Aiter five min- 
utes add the other pint of water, or 
Walter in proportion to the number 
of cups desired, allowing a half cup 
more for each person. Serve at once, 
very hot. 

In serving the tea, put the cream 
or milk or sugar into the cups. The 
milk should be cold and unboiled, 
as the boiled milk destroys the flav- 
or of the tea. Cream is far pref- 
erable to milk. Have the tea very 
hot, and pour over tne milk, allow- 
ing two teaspoonfuls or four of milk 
to each person, or suiting individual 
tastes. 

Always have a pitcher of very hot 



water at hand when about to serve 
tho tea. Pour a little into each cup 
to warm it, and then empty before 
putting in the milk and tea. Pour 
the tea through a strainer, so as to 
avoid the possibility of leaves or 
dregs passing into the cup. 

The tea leaves that have been in- 
fused in an earthen teapot may be 
used again; as all the aroma has not 
been extracted by the first infusion. 
The tea brewed in a metal pot must 
never be used a second time, as by 
standing it absorbs the acid of the 
tin. Indeed, metal teapots are con- 
demned by the best Creole house- 
keepers. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Du Chocolat. 

1 Cake of Grated French or German 

Chocolate. 

1 Quart of New Milk. 

Set the milk to boil; in the mean- 
' time mix the grated chocolate with 
a little hot water, to -blend thar- 
oughly. Stir this in the milk as it 
begins to simmer, and let it boil up 
once, and serve hot, each one sweet- 
ening to taste, or allow two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar to the entire mi-x- 
ture. Serve hot, with or without 
Whipped Cream. 

It is a mistake to allow chocolate 
to boil a long time. The basis, of 
Chocolate is sugar and cocoa, and 
the first gains nothing by boiling, 
and the second loses its fragrant 
perfume by evaporation. 

In economical . households, one- 
half a cup of water is sometimes al- 
lowed to three-quarters of a cup 
of milk in making Chocolate. 

COCOA. 

Du Cacao. 

1 Quart of Milk. 
i Xablessoonfuls of Cocoa. 

Set the milk to boil in a farina 
boiler, and moisten the Cocoa with 
a little milk, and pour it into the 
milk just as it begins to simmer, 
stirring all the while. Let it boil 
up once, and serve hot, with or 
without Whipped Cream. 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

JELLIES, MARMALADES, PRESERVES. 

Des Confitures, des Marmalades et des Conserves. 



In making jellies, marmalades or 
preserves, use only perfectly sound 
arid fresh fruit. Do not cook them 
long" enough to destroy their natu- 
ral flavor, and seal them while boil- 
ing hot in airtight jars, and be care- 
ful to All these even to overflowing, 
so as to preclude the possibility of 
the least air entering the bottle. 
Then seal quickly. Heat the jars 
before filling, and use a wide- 
mouthed funnel during the process 
of filling. The large-mouthed jars 
that now come with porcelain-lined 
glass tops are the best. When once 
the jars are filled, immediately screw 
on the tops, and put them in a dry, 
warm pl9.ce, where there is not the 
least possibility of the air striking 
them. After twenty-four hours turn 
the tops on still more tightly, so as 
to be sure to exclude ^the entrance 
of all air, and set them a"way in a 
cool, dark storeroom or closet. The 
room must not be cold. After six 
days examine the jars carefully. It 
there is not the least sign of any air 
bubbles on the surface, and the liq- 
uid seems to have settled perfectly, 
the fruit is keeping properly. If, on 
the contrary, there is the least sign 
of an air bubble, the fruit is begin- 
ning to ferment, and if the bottle is 
not opened immediately, it will burst 
shortly. Take out the fruit, recook 
it, and prepare the jars again, and 
return the fruit to them, taking ex- 
tra precautions to prevent the en- 
trance of any particle of air. In 
preserving large fruits, always throw 
them into cold water as soon as they 
have been pared. Then have ready 
a pot of clear, boiling syrup and 
proceed as directed below. 

Use all surplus juices that exude 
from berries to make jellies. 

Never make preserves on a damp, 
rainy day, and never use fruits that 
are overripe, or that have been 
picked in wet weather. They will 
sour. 

Always have the jars exposed sev- 
eral days in the air in a dry place, 
so that they may be perfectly dry. 

In all cases the jars must be en- 
tirely full, so as to leave no room 



for air, and must be sealed as hot 
as possible. 

Set the jar in warm water before 
filling, and let them gradually heat 
before introducing the hot preserves 
else they will crack. 

Let all bubbles rise to the top, 
Vnd if you see any in the lower part 
of the jar, insert a silver fork, which 
will cause them to rush to the top. 
Then have ready a strong piece of 
muslin, large enough to tie over the 
mouths, and with a spoon spread 
over a thick coat \>f cement made 
of one pound of rosin and two ounces 
of mutton suet, well-mixed and 
taelted. Take up the cover quickly, 
Jilace it on .the jar, with the cement 
side downward, and press it down 
blosely over the sides. Tie it down 
with twine, and finish with a good 
coat of cement over the whole. Set 
the jars in a- large pan of hot water, 
to cool gradually, on no account at- 
tempting to cool them out of the 
water or they will crack. When 
they are cold, the tops will be found 
sunken in. This may be taken as 
an evidence that all the air has been 
excluded most effectually. The reg- 
ular fruit jars, made for preserving 
do not require any muslin, as the 
lids are tight-fltting. But pour the 
cement around the groove in the 
top, so as to seal tightly. 

If tin cans are used, it will be ne- 
cessary to have a man ready at 
hand to solder up the can as soon 
as full. 

If open jars are used, cover first 
with brandied paper, and then with 
white paper, fastened on with a 
thick flour paste. Label and set the 
jars a"n^ay. 

These directions for sealing will 
hold in making all preserves, mar- 
malades and jellies. Fruit put up in 
this manner will rarely spoil. The 
one great thing to be remembered Is 
to expel all air. 

Apple Jelly. 
Gel6e de Pomnies. 

1 Pound of Sugar to Every Pint of Juice. 
Take pippins or other tart apples, 
pare them and cut into quarters, put 



333 



Into a preserving- kettle, cover with 
water, and add the grated rind of a 
lemon, and let them tioil to a mar- 
malade. Then strain. the juice, with- 
out squeezing, through a clean Jelly 
bag made of flannel, and for every 
pint of juice add one pound of fine 
sugar. If the apples are not very 
tart, add the juice also. 

Apricot Jelly. 

Gel^e d'Abrioots. 

To Every Pint of Fruit Juice 1 Pound 
of Suirar. 

Choose apricots that are just ripe, 
and no more. Pare and cut in two, 
and take out the stones. Boil them 
in water sufficient to cover well, 
strain through a hair sieve, and pour 
the decoction into earthen dishes. To 
every pint of liquid add a pound of 
sugar. Set on the fire, let it boil 
twenty minutes, skimming while on 
the fire. Pour immediately into cups 
glasses or preserve jars, and proceed 
to seal as directed above. This jelly 
has a most exquisite fiavor if the 
grated rind of an orange is added. 

To make apricot juice, after press- 
ing out the juice, put Into glass 
bottles, and add one pound of pow- 
dered sugar to every pound of juice, 
and a little cinnamon. Shake the 
bottle well, until the sugar is melted. 
Let it stand eight days. Then filter 
the juice, pour it into bottles, fasten 
securely, and keep in a cool place.- 

Cherry juice and all fruit juices 
are prepared in the same manner. 

Blsckberry Jelly. 

GelSe de MQres. 

1 Pound of Strawberries. 1 Pound of 
Sugar. 

To every pound of strawberries al- 
low a ,half pound of sugar. Put the 
berries in a porcelain-lined kettle, 
and cover them with the sugar and 
let them stand for two hours. Then 
set over a moderate fire and bring 
the mixture to the boiling point. 
Skim while boiling; pour immed- 
iately into cups and glasses, and 
cover tightly and place in a cool, 
dry place. 

For Strawberry and Blackberry 
Jelly combined, allow equal parts of 
the fruits and proceed as above. 

Blu<> "Itun and Damson Jelly. 

Gel6e de Prunes. 

1 Pound of Fruit. 
% of a Pound of Sugar. 

Stone the fruit, whether damsons 
or plums, and allow three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar to every potind 
of fruit. Proceed in exactly the 
aame manner as for Blackberry Jelly. 



Calf's Foot Jelly. 

GelSe de Pieds de Veau. 

See recipe under chapter on Comr 
potes. 

Clierry Jelly. 

GelSe de Cerises. 

1 Pound of Cherries. 
% Pound of Sugar. 

Stone the cherries and allow haif 
a pound of sugar to every pound 
of cherries if the cherries are ripe 
and sour, and a quarter of a pound 
otherwise". Set over the fire until 
the heat causes the juice to flov 
freely, and proceed in exactly the 
same manner as for Strawberry or 
Blackberry Jelly. 

' Currant Jelly. 

I Gelfie de Groseilles. 

To Every Pint of Juice 1 Pound of Sugar. 

Take currants that are fully ripe; 
clean, pick, wash and boil. To every 
pint of juice add one pound of fine 
white sugar. Let it boil for twenty 
minutes, always skimming it while 
on the fire. Do. not let it remain 
longer than twenty minutes, or it 
will grow dark. Pour immediately 
into cups. 

Some boil the currants without the 
sugar, and then, for every pint of 
juice, after taking off the fire, they 
add the sugar in the proportions 
given, stirring briskly till all is ab- 
sorbed and dissolved; then the jars 
are filled as quickly as possible, for 
the preparation jellies at once. 

Jellies made in this way are of a 
much lighter color than When the 
sugar is boiled into them. 

Currant anil Raspberry Jelly. 

Gelfie de Groseilles FramboisSe. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Fruit Juice. 

Take equal parts of currants and 
raspberries and strain the juice, and 
-proceed as above, allowing one 
pound of sugar to every pint of 
berry juice. 

To every quart of large red rasp- 
berries allow a half pint of currant 
juice; place in a kettle, add the .su- 
gar and bring to a boil, and proceed 
as directed above. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Gel6e de Citron. ■ 

4 Lemons. % Can of Gelatine. 
1 Quart of Water. 

Grate three or four lemons into a 
pound of refined sugar, and press 
out the juice. Then boil one-half 
a can of Gelatine — (see Calf's Foot 
Jelly) — in one quart of water, and, 
when reduced to one-half the quan- 
tity, add the juice and sugar; set 
all to boil on a very hot coal fire. 



3^4 



and then pour immediately into a 
glass or porcelain dish; fill the 
glasses and set in a cool place. 

Orange Jelly. 

GelSe de Citron. 

6 Oraii£eB. 
a Can of Gelatinie, 
1 Quart of Water. 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Lemon Jelly. 

Orange Jelly, Creole Style. 

Gelfee a, rOrange a la Creole. 

6 Louisiana Oran^^s. 

^ Box of Oelatine. H GiU ot Ooracoa. 

Sugar to Taste. 

Extract the Juice of the oranges, 
Soak the gelatine, if prepared, and 
set the bowl in boiling water till 
the gelatine melts. Then add the 
juice of the orange, and add sugar 
to taste. Add a wineglassful of the 
best Curagoa, and strain tljie jelly 
through a coarse piece of swig?. Set 
In a mold to harden. 

The Creoles have a pretty way of 
making baskets out of the oranges 
and serving the jelly in them: Ev- 
ery little Creole child knows Jiow to 
make these baskets. With a sharp 
knife they trace out a basket in the? 
skin of the orange, and then gradu- 
ally loosening the pulp, they cut out 
the orange, without breaKing the 
skin. The orange meat is then used 
for the jelly, and the baskets are 
thrown into ice water for an hour. 
This makes them stiff. When the 
jelly is hard, it is cut into little 
squares, and gradually made to fit, 
like blocks, into the baskets. These 
baskets are placed in a dish, beauti- 
fully garnished with delicate buds 
and greenery, and the effect is very 
charming. Again, the oranges are 
cut open in this manner. The peel 
is marked off Into eighths and 
pulled from th? upper end of the 
stem, without separating the orange 
peels, which open like a beautiful 
flower. The jelly is piled into this 
when cool, whipped cream is heaped 
on the top, a few luscious strawber- 
ries are placed in the cream, and this 
is not only a most beautiful picture 
on the table, but a delicious des- 
sert. Try it. 

Peach JeJIly. 

Gel§e de PSches. 

1 Pound of Sugar to Every Pint of Fruit 
Juice. 

■Choose peaches that are just ripe, 
arid no more. Pare and cut in two, 
and take out the stone. Boil them 
in water sufficient to cover w^ell, 
strain through a hair sieve, and pour 
the decoction into earthen dishes. 
To every pint of liquid add a pound 
of sugar. Set on the Are, let it boil 
twenty minutes, skimming while on 



the fire. Pour immediately Into cups, 
glasses or preserve jars, and pro- 
ceed as directed above. 

Pear Jelly. 

Gel6e de Poires. 

1 Pound of Sugar to Ereiy Pint of 
LlQuld. 

Choose pears that are just ripe, 
■and no more. Pare and cut in two, 
land take out the stones. Boil them 
■in water sufficient to , cover well, 
/strain through a hair sieve, and 
pour the decoction into earthen 
dishes. To every pint of liquid add 
a pound of sugar. Set on the Are, 
let it boll twenty minutes, skim- 
ming while on the flre. Pour im- 
'raediately into cups, glasses or pre- 
serve jars, and proceed as directed. 

Pineapple Jelly. 

Gel6e d'Ananas. 

% of a Jound of White Sugar to Every Ponnd 
ot Grated Pineapsle. 
Pare the pineapple, take out the 
eyes and grate carefully, or pick 
into fine pieces. To every pound of 
(pineapple allow three-quarters of a 
pound of white sugar. Put the pine- 
apple and the sugar to boil in a por- 
celain-lined kettle and cook over a 
moderate flre for ten or flfteen min- 
utes, as directed above. Then pro- 
ceed to pour into jelly glasses or 
jars, cover tightly, and set in a cool 
place. 

Q,ulnce Jelly. 

Gel6e de Goings. , 

1 Found of Suf;ar to Every Pint of 
Fruit Liquid. 
Pare and core the quinces, and cut 
into slices. Boil until well done, 
which may be determined by running 
a fork through them. Then strain 
the liquor through a flarinel bag, 
and measure it, allowing one pound 
of white sugar to every pint of juice. 
Place the whole on a fire in the pre- 
serving kettle, and watch closely. 
Do not let it boil over. Try occa- 
sionally on a saucer. When It be- 
gins to grow solid it is done. Then 
proceed to bottle as directed above. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Gelfie de Framboises. 

To Every Pound of Berries 1 Poond cf 
of Suisar. 

To every pound of raspberries al- 
low a half of a pound of sugar. Put 
the berries in a porcelain-lined ketf 
tie, and cover them with the sugaf 
'and let them stand for two hours. 
Then set over a moderate flre and 
bring the mixture to a boiling 
point. Skim while boiling; pour Im- 
mediately into cups and glasses, and 
cover tightly and place in a cool 
dry place. 



335 



strawberry Jelly. 

Gelfie de 'Fraises. 

To Every Pound of Berries a Half Pound 
of Susar. 

To every pound of strawberries al- 
Ipw a half of a pound of sugar. Put 
the berries In a porcelalil-ll'ned ket- 
tle, and cover them with the sugar 
and let them stand for two hours. 
Then set over a moderate flre and 
bring the mixture to a boiling point. 
Skim while boiling; pour immediate- 
ly into cups and glasses, and cover 
tightly and place in a cool, dry place. 
JAMS. 
Des Marmelades. 

Marmalades are a mixture of 
fruits that have been reduced to a 
paste of such consistency that they 
may be preserved. Ripe fruits, which 
cannot bear the process of blanching 
required in preserving whole fruits 
are used for this purpose. The beauty 
and the taste of a marmalade will 
depend on the fruits that are used 
and the quality of sugar, as also the 
care bestowed on the preparation. 
The Creoles, like their French an- 
cestors, are noted for their delightful 
preparations of marmalades. 

Directions for Making: a Marmalade. 

Always choose ripe, beautiful, 
luscious fruit. Cut the fruit into 
small pieces, and then add' the sugar 
and fruit in alternate layers in the 
preserving kettle, with a layer of 
fruit on the bottom. Set the kettle 
over the fire. If the fruit is not very 
Juicy add a small quantity of water 
to set it to boiling and to extract the 
Juices. As the fruit boils, shake the 
kettle occasionally by lifting it from 
the fire, and turn the whole briskly 
to prevent it froni burning at the 
bottom. Never stir with a spoon, as 
It will be sure to burn. When the 
whole mixture begins to look very 
clear, and you see, by testing a 
portion on a plate, that it is growing 
thick, it is done. Then take from 
the fire and put into Jars at once. 
This mode of cooking distinguishes 
the marmalade from preserves and 
Jellies. 

Follow these directions implicitly 
in the subjoined recipes: 

Apple Marmalade, 

Marmelade de Pommes. 

3% Pounds of Fruit to 2 Pounds of Sugar. 

Peel the pears and cut them into 
quarters, extracting all the seeds. 
Then throw them Into frsh water, 
sufficient to half cover, and- set them 
on the fire. When they begin to 
grow soft, mash them with, a ivooden 
spoon; then add the sugar; add the 
grated rinds of several lemons; mix 
well, and then set all back upon the 



fire. Stir the mixture while boiling 
until Tt is of the proper consistency, 
and then pour it into Jars or glasses. 
Allow three aifd a half pounds of 
fruit to two pounds of sugar. 

Cherry Jam. 

Marmelade de Cerises. 

For Every Pound of Cherries % of a Pound 
of Sugar. 

Select fine, ripe cherries. Stone 
them, but be careful not to allow 
them to lose h their. Juice. Allow 
three- fourths '.ubf a pound of sugar 
for every pound of fruit. Arrange 
in layers as directed above, set on 
the flre, and boil till the syrup is 
very clear and begins to form a Jelly 
when a portion is turned upon a 
plate. Then bottle as directed. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Marmelade d'Oranges. 

To Every 6 Oranges Allow 2 Lemons. 

To Every Found of Fruit % of a Found of 

Sugar. 

Select fine, ripe Louisiana oranges. 
Remove the rind, grate it, and grate 
the pulp, preserving carefully, every 
particle of Juice. Extract the seeds. 
To every six oranges and Juice, al- 
low the grated rind and Juice of two 
lemons. Then weigh the whole, and 
allow for every pound of fruit three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar. Cook 
the whole, adding, of course, the 
grated rind of the oranges, and when 
done turn into Jelly tumblers. Test 
by turning a portion on "a plate. 
When it begins to Jelly, which will 
be in about twenty-five minutes, 
the mixture is ready to be turned 
into the tumblers and sealed. 

A marmalade of orange and lemon 
peel may be made by putting the 
rinds into a Jar of water, and letting 
them stand for several days. Then 
drain and grate or pound soft. Al- 
low a half pound of sugar for every 
pound of pulp. Mix a little water 
to start the boiling, and let all cook 
for three-quarters of an hour. Then 
proceed to turn into Jelly glasses. 
Pear Marmalade. 
Marmelade de Poires. 

2 Founds of Sugar to H^ery S% Pounds of 
Fears. 
Peel the pears and cut them into 
quarters, extracting all the seeds. 
Then throw them into fresh water, 
sufficient to half cover, and set them 
on the flre. When they begin to 
grow soft, mash them with a wooden 
spoon; then add the sugar; add the 
grated rinds of "several lemons; mix 
well, and then set all back upon the 
flre. Stir the mixture while boiling 
till it is of the proper consistency, 
and then pour it into Jars or glasses. 
Allow three and a half pounds of 
fruit to two pounds of sugar. 



336 



Peach Afarmalade. 

Marmelade de PSches. 

To Every Pound of Peaches % of a Pound 
of Sugar; 

Allow three-fourths o£ a pound of 
sugar for every pound of fruit. Take 
ripe fruit; pare and cut into small 
pieces, and place in the preserving 
kettle, with a layer of fruit and a 
layer of sugar, and so alternate till 
all is in. Cook over the Are as di- 
rected. Watch carefully that they ' 
do not burn. When they begin to 
form a jelly take off the fire and put 
away in stone jars or glasses. Apri- 
cot and Plum Marmalade are made 
in the same manner. 

Pineapple Marmalade. 

Marmelade d'Ananas. 

To Every Pound of Pineapple % of a Pound 
of Sugar. 

Pare the pineapple, and remove the 
'eyes. ' Grate carefully, preserving 
the juice. Allow three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar to every pound of 
the grated fruit, and proceed as di- 
rected above. 

Q.uinee Marmalade. 

Marmelade de Goings. 

For Every Pound of Quinces Add % nC 3. 
Pound of Sugar. 

Take ripe quinces; out them into 
small pieces; stem them in sufficient 
water to cover them, and let them 
cook till they can be mashed with a 
wooden spoon. When well-mashed 
in the water, pour in "the ^gar. al- 
lowing three-fourths of a pound for 
every pound of fruit. Then pro- 
ceed to arrange in layers as directed 
above. Add the mixture; cook until 
it assumes a bright red color. Test 
by pouring on a saucer just sufficient 
to see if it will jelly; when it reaches 
this degree of consistency, proceed 
to run into jars or glasses. When 
cold it will be quite solid. 
Raspberry Jain. 
Ma*-melade de Framboises, 
To Every Pound of Raspberries 1 Pound of 
Sugar. 

Select fine, rips fruit, and weigh, 
and allow equal weights of fruit and 
sugar. Proceed to boil as directed. 
When they begin to jelly, they are 
ready to be turned into glasses. 

Raspberry Jam is very much im- 
proved by the addition of a glass 
of currant juice, cooking all to- 
gether. 

Sfra^vberry Jam. 

Earraelade de Fraises. 

To Every Pound of eBrrles 1 Pound of 
Sugar. 

Select fine, ripe strawberries, and 
weigh, and allow equal weights of 



fruit and sugar, proceed to boil as 
directed. When they begin to jelly, 
they are ready to be turned into the 
jelly glasses. 

Conserve of Grapes. 

Marmelade de Raisins. 

To Every Pint of Fruit Juice H Pound of 
Sugar. 

Boil the grapes for one hour, and 
then press them through a sieve. 
Add a half pound of sugar to every 
pint of liquid, and proceed as di- 
rected above. 

Orange Flo^ver and Rose Conserves. 
Conserve de Fleur d'Oranger et 

de Roses. 

8 Ounces of Base Water. 

2 Ounces of Powdered Orange Petals. 

1^ Pounds of Sugar. 

This is a delicious and recherche 
Creole Conserve. Take two ounces 
of powdered orange flower petals, 
one and one-half pounds of sugar, 
and eight ounces of rose water. 
Steep the petals in distilled water, 
and then add the sugar, and set to 
heat over a moderate fire. Add the 
rose water. When it begins to jelly 
turn into a jelly glass. 

Violet Conserve. 

Conserve de Violettes. 

2 Ounces of Freshly-Gathered Violet PetaU, 
VA Founds of Sugar. 

This conserve is made by pound- 
ing two ounces of freshly-gathered 
violet petals, with great care, into 
a paste, after steeping in distilled 
water sufficient to make a paste. 
Then add the sugar, in proportion of 
one and a half pounds and boil to a 
flake. 

PRESERVES. 

Des Conserves. 

General Directions for Making 

Preserves. 

Preserving fruits is very much on 
the same order as the making of 
Jellies, only in preserving equal 
quantities of fruit and sugar are 
used. Use only the best quality of 
sug4r. 

Fruits .may be preserved, either 
whole or otherwise. In preserving 
fruits whole, it is best to prick such 
fruits as pears, plums and peaches 
with a jieedle, so as to give vent to 
the juice, which would otherwise- 
escape' and burSt !th'6 skin. This' 
mode of preserving ISoks very beau- 
tiful but' the best way is the old- 
fashioned one of paring the fruit 
carefully, either in halves or whole, 
simply removing the skins and cores. 
Then make a syrup of one pound of" 
white sugar to each pound of fruit. 
Set the kettle on the fire, and let 
the syrup boll till the fruit looks: 



337 



quite clear. Or make the syrup by 
putting it on tiie fire with water, 
allowing a half pint of fresh water 
to a pound of the best white .sugar. 
Stir well and bring to a boil. Let it 
boil five- minutes^, when it will be- 
gin to bubble and froth. As the 
froth rises ,the syrup will become 
clear. Skini and set to one side of 
the stove to settle, and it is now 
ready to receive the fruit. 

If the former methed is used, take 
the fruit carefully out of the syrup 
as soon as possible, so as to take up 
as little of the syrup as can be 
helped, and then place the fruit in 
the jars. Let the syrup continue to 
boil till it becomes very thick, and 
inclined to run into a jelly. Then 
All the Jars up with it, and w^hen 
cool tie with muslin or paper around 
the mouth before sealing. But the 
new jars that conie with close-flttlng 
covers are the best, as well as the 
most economical finally. 

Use in preference a porcelain- 
lined kettle. If you use a copper 
kettle, never allow the preserves, 
jams or marmalades to cool in the 
kettle, on account of the verdigris 
which will be sure to form. 

Examine the preserves from time 
to time, and change the paper covers 
when they are discolored. 

If the slightest sign of air bubbles 
Is detected, open the Jars immedi- 
ately and boil the fruit again, but 
this will also destroy some of the 
flavor and excellent quality. 

It is absolutely necessary to keep 
all preserves, marmalades and jel- 
lies in a cool (not cold) place, that 
Is, pertectly free from dampness or 
possibility of heat. Heat will ex- 
cite fermentation, and the preserves 
will quickly sour. Dampness will 
cause them to decompose and mold. 

Follow implicitly the above direc- 
tions, and you will be sure to suc- 
ceed in making preserves, etc. 



Fig Preserves. 

Take the weight in sugar of the 
quantity of figs to be preserved; the 
figs must be ripe. Cover the figs 
with cold water for twelve hours; 
then simmer in water enough to 
gover them until tender, and spread 
(Stit upon a sieve to cool and harden. 
Make a syrup o fthe sugar, a cup of 
cold water being allowed for every 
pound. Boil until clear of scum, put 
in the figs, and simmer for ten min- 
utes Take them out and spread 
upon the dishes in the sun. Add the 
lemons and the ginger; boil the sy- 
rup thick, give the figs another boil 
of rifteen minutes and fill the jars 
three-quarters of the way up to the 
top. Then, fill up with boiling sy- 
rup, cover, and, when cold, seal up. 



Lemon Preserves. 

Conserve de Citron. 

1 Pound of Sugar for Every Found of Lemons. 

Tlie Juice of 1 Lemon for Every Found 

of Fruit. 

A Tablespoonful of Alum for Every Quart of 

Water. 

Cut the lemon in halves, after 
paring, and remove the seeds. Then 
cut it up into a number of thir» 
slices, and put them into a vessel 
with cold water, adding a table- 
spoonful of alum to every quart of 
water, or a little salt. After sev- 
eral hours put the lemon into cool, 
fresh water, and le't it remain an 
hour, and drain. Then put it into 
a kettle and cover with two quarts 
of boiling water. Add the rinds of 
the lemon or citron, and a few pieces 
of ginger root. Let all boll till per- 
fectly clear. Then take' "out the fruit 
and drain dry. Then prepare a 
syrup, allowing one pound of sugar 
for every pound of fruit, and add 
the juice of a lemon for each pound' 
of fruit. Put the citron or lemon 
in without the ginger, and allow it 
to boil for three-quarters of an hour. 
It will become a, beautiful, clear am- 
ber color. Proceed to bottle or seal 
in jars immediately. 

Peach Preserves. 

Conserves de Pgches. 

To Every Pound of Fruit One Pound of Sugar. 

Prepare the syrup as above di- 
rected. Then peel the peaches and 
cut them into halves, removing the 
stories. Skim the syrup, and drop- 
in the peaches, one at a time, and 
let them boil till tender, from fif- 
teen to twenty minutes. They should 
be so tender that they may -bo 
pierced with a broom straw. This is- 
the test. Then remove the kettle 
from the fire, carefully drain out 
the peaches and put them in th3 
jars. Then boil the syrup twenty 
minutes longer, or until it forms a 
thick syrup, removing the scum as 
it rises. Pour off any remains of 
thin syrup that may have adhered 
to the peaches in the jar, and fill 
in with the syrup, and set aside to 
cool. "When cold, screw the tops of 
the jars on. Label and set away. 

Fruit Preserves. 

Conserves de Fruits. 

To Every Pound of Fruit Allow 1 Pound of 
Sujar. 

Apple, Plum, Damson, Grape, 
Strawberry, Raspberry, Currant, 
pcuppernong, Muscadine, Pumpkin, 
Sweet Potato and other preserves 
are prepared in the same manner 
as in the directions given for Peach 
Preserves, only the berries, such as 
Strawberries, Blackberries and 



338 



Raspberries, do not require much 
coolcing. Preserve Cherries whole, 
stoning and stemming. 

Pineapple Preserves. 

Conserves d'Ananas. 
To Eyeiy Pound of Fruit One Pound of Sugar. 

Pare the pineapple and remove 
the eyes. Then slice it nicely and 
■weigh it. Allow equal quantities of 
fine, powdered sugar. Place the 
fruit in a deep dish and then 
sprinkle the sugar over It, between 
the slices, in alternate layers, and 
let It remain overnight. Brain off 
the syrup in the morning, and put 
it in a kettle, and when it gets verj*i 
hot put in the fruit. Let it cook 
slowly till the slices look very clear, 
and then skim them out and put 
them in the jars. Fill to overflow- 
ing, and then seal. 

Q.uince Preserves. 

Conserve de Goings. 
To Erery Pound of Fruit One Pound of Sugar, 
Pare the ripe quinces, and then cut 
them into slices or rings. Weigh 
them and put them into the preserv- 
ing kettle and cover with water. 
When they are quite tender, pour 
off the superfluous water, leaving 
about half a pint to every pound of 
fruit, and adding sugar, pound for 
pound. Let the whole boil till the 
fruit is tender. Then carefully drain 
out the fruit and lay it in the jars. 
Now return the kettle to the fire, 
and let the syrup boil to a jelly. 
Then fill the jars with it. The jelly 
will grow clearer and brighter as 
time goes on, and quinces preserved 
in this way will keep for years. 

Orange Preserves. 

Conserve d'Orange. 
To Every Pound of Oranges 1 Pound of Sugar, 
Peel the oranges. Then slice nice- 
ly and weigh. Allow equal quanti- 
ties of fine white powdered sugar. 
Place the fruit in a deep dish, and 
then sprinkle the sugar over it, be- 
tween the slices, in alternate layers, 
and let it remain over night. Drain 
off the syrup in the morning, and 
put it in a kettle, and when it gets 
vecy hot put in the fruit. Let it 
cook slowly till the slices look very 
clear, and then skim them out and 
put them in the jars. Pill to over- 
flowing and then seal. 



Small Oranges Preserved Wlole. 

Conserves d'Oranges. 
To Every Pound of Oranges 1 Found of Sugar. 

Take small, green, sweet oranges, 
and pierce them several times with 
a penknife till very soft. Let them 
stand for three days in water, which 
must be renewed fresh every ■ day. 
Put them in a dish after the third 
day, pour thin clarified sugar over 
them, and then prepare a syrup as 
above directed. Add the oranges 
when it begins to boil, cook till they 
are tender, and proceed in the usual 
way. Or the oranges may be taken 
out, placed on a sieve after the first 
ebullition of the syrup, and drained 
and glazed or candied, as crystallized 
fruit. 

Watermelon Rind Preserves. 

Conserve d'fi:corce de Melon d'Bau. 

To Every Pound of Watermelon Rind 1 Pound 
of Sugar, 

Cut the watermelon rind into thin 
slices, and throw into a bucket of 
fresh water, into which you have 
dissolved a teaspoonful of alum for 
every quart of water. Let it remain 
for several hours, until they grow 
crisp, and then proceed in exactly 
the same manner as in the recipe for 
Citron preserves. 

Brandy Peacbes. 

Peches a. I'Eau de Vie. 

Vi Pint of I'ruit Water to 1 Pound of Gran- 
ulated Sugar. 

Equal Parts of Brandy and Sugar. 

Select fine freestone peaches, yel- 
low or white, not overripe. Scald 
them with .boiling water, cover well, 
and let them boil till tender. Then 
take them out, and drain on a plat- 
ter, and put in the jars and cover 
with brandy, and let them stand one 
week. Then make a syrup, allow- 
ing a half pint of the water in which 
the peaches were boiled to one pound 
of granulated sugar. Take out the 
peaches, drain them, and put into 
glass jars. Let the syrup cool, and 
mix equal parts of this with equal 
parts of the brandy, in which the 
peaches were put up, pour over the 
peaches, and seal. 

All brandied fruits are put up in 
the saine manner. 



CHAPTER XLV. 



Creole: candies. 



Bonbons et Sucrerles Creoles. 



Creole Candies occupy a unique po- 
sition among- confections in tiie 
United States, and it has often been 
said that the old French Quarter 
could apply for a patent for its de- 
licious "Paoanes t la' CrSme," 
Rose," "Praline Blanc," "Pistaches 
Pralinfies," "La CoUe," "Mais Tac- 
tac," "DragSes," "Guimauves," "Pas- 
tilles," "Nougats," and other exclus- 
ive products of the Creole cuisine. 
The Picayune uses the term "ex- 
clusive" advisedly, especially in the 
use of the word "Praline," for while 
tlie term "Praline" is not of Creole 
origin, being a common enough word 
In the vocabulary of the Frencli na- 
tion, with the mother country of 
Louisiana it simply means "su- 
gared," and has no reference what- 
ever to the delightful confections 
that had their origin in the old Cre- 
ole homes of New Orleans. There 
is, indeed, a traditional recipe of 
the great Viart, "Homme de Bouche," 
as he called himself, who tickled 
the palate of Charles X, in the Jo- 
cund days of the Bourbon restora- 
tion, and another old tradition that 
the Praline was a species of Dra- 
g6e, which derived its name from the 
Marechal de Plessin-Pralin, who was 
very fond of almonds, and whose 
butler one day advised him to have 
them coated wuth sugar, to avoid 
indigestion. . Again, there is an old 
French rhyme of Gresset's which 
has become incorporated in the 
banquette games of the little Creole 
children of New Orleans, and which 
runs thus: 
"Soeur Rosalie an retonr de matlnes. 
Pins d'nne tola Inl porta des pralines." 

But all these songs and stories 
simply refer to any sugar-coated 
nut. It was reserved for the gentle 
descendants Of these old French an- 
cestral homes to. evolve from the 
suggestiveness of the word "Praline" 
dainty and delightful confections 
that have, for upwards of one hun- 
dred and fifty years, delighted the 
younger generations of New Orleans, 
and the older ones, too. The' old 
negro cooks, quiok to appreciate and 
apply, took up the word, and out 



of their own ingenuity created pe- 
culiar forms of candy, such as "Lia 
Colle," "Mais Tactac,' 'etc., all of 
which are pleasant, and the delight 
especially of the little children of 
New Orleans. 

Aside from these, we have our 
"Drag6es," and "Pastilles," and "Car- 
amels," and "Bonbons 4 la CrSme," 
and "Bonbons au Liqueur," all of 
which are not only most agreeable 
to the taste, but are also elegant 
accessories of desserts at the most 
fashionable feasts. 

PRALIiVES. 

The word "Praline" is entirely as- 
sociated in New Orleans with the 
delicious pink and white sugar cakes 
made of cocoanut and sugar, or the 
brown ones, made of pecans and su- 
gar, which are sold by tlie old Cre- 
ole negro women of New Orleans. 
The "PraliniSres," as they are called, 
may always be found in Canal Street, 
near Bourbon or Royal, or about the 
entrance of Jackson Square, in the 
dim Cathedral alley, or going about 
the streets of the old French Quar- 
ter, selling their wares of an even- 
ing, when the little Creole children 
are taking an airing with their 
faithful old mammies. These little 
ones always have a "Picayune," or 
five-cent pice, with which to buy 
a praline or a "La Colle" or a stick 
of "Candi Tirg a, la Melasse." 

White Pralines. 

Pralines Blanches de Coco. 

1 Pound of Fine White Sugar (Granulated). 

1 Freshly-Grated Cocoanut (Small Size). 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Use a farina boiler or a porcelain- 
lined saucepan. Put "th« ■ sugar in 
the saucepan with the water and let 
it boil well. When it begins to form 
a syrup, take from the fire and stir 
in tiie freshly-grated cocoanut. Mix 
thoroughly and return to the fire, 
and let it boil until you can draw it 
like a thread between your finger 
and thumb. Be careful to stir con- 
stantly from the time you add the 
cocoanut. "When it begins to bubble, 
take from the stove, for it will havo 



340 



reached the above-mentioned state 
in two or three minutes. This will 
be sufficient if you wish the pralines 
to be light and flaky. Have ready 
a cleanly washed and somewhat wet 
marble slab or buttered dish. Take 
a kitchen spoon and drop the mix- 
ture into cakes on the slab, spread- 
ing them out with the spoon and 
rounding with a fork till they form 
a neat round cake of about a quarter 
of an inch in thickness and four or 
five inches in diameter. Let them 
dry; and then take a knife and gent- 
ly raise them from the slab. You will 
have the dainty white pralines that 
are such peculiar Creole confections 
and which are also much sought af- 
ter by strangers visiting New Or- 
leans. 

Increase the quantity of sugar in 
proportion to the size of the cocoa- 
nut, using three pounds of finest 
white sugar for a very large cocoa- 
nut, and never boil the cocoanut 
more than a few minu'',es in the su- 
gar. 

Fink Frallnea. 

Pralines Rose de Coco. 

1 Pounfl of Fine White Sugar (Granulated). 

1 Freely-Grated Cocoauut (Small Size). 

4 TablesDoonfuls of Water. 

1 TableBpoonful of Cochineal. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as 'above, only add about a ta- 
blespoonful of Cochineal to the pra- 
lines, just before taking off the fire. 
Proceed to drop on a marble slab, 
as above. 

Pecan Pralines. 

Pralines aux Pacanes. 

1 Pound of Brown Sugar. 

% round of Freshly-Peeled and Cut Louisiana 

Pecans. 

1 Spoon of Butter. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Set the sugar to boil, and as it 
begins to boil add the pecans, which 
you will have divested of their shells 
and cut some into fine pieces, others 
into halves, and others again into 
demi-halves. Let all boil till the 
mixture begins to bubble, and then 
take off the stove and proceed to 
lay on a marble slab, as above, to 
dry. These pecan pralines are de- 
licious. 

Be careful to stir the mixture in 
the above recipe constantly till the 
syrup begins to thicken and turn to 
sugar. Then take from the stove and 
proceed to turn on the marble slab. 
One pound of unshelled pecans will 
make a half pound shelled. In us- 
ing water, add just sufficient to melt 
the sugar. 



Cream Pecans. 

Pacanes a. la CrSme. 

1 Pound of Pecans. 
The White of an Ebb. 
Vi Pound of Finest White Confectionery 
Sugar. 

Under this suggestive term is 
known a species of confection that 
is much used by the Creole as an 
addition to the most fashionable and. 
r'echerche feast. Peel the pecans in. 
halves, being careful not to break 
the meat. Then take the white of 
an egg and beat well with its weight 
in water till it forms a cream. Then 
work in with your fingers the finest 
white confectionery sugar till it 
forms a smooth paste. Take a small 
piece of this paste, roll it, and put it 
between two halves of the pecans,, 
and then lightly roll in the paste, 
flattening the pecan somewhat. The- 
coating outside must be very, very 
light, so that the delicate brown of 
the pecan meat shows through. Set 
the pecans to dry, and serve on dain- 
ty china saucers, setting a saucer to- 
each guest. 

Almond Pralines. 

Amandes Pralinfies. 

1 Pound of Beautiful New Almonds. 

1 Pound of Susar. 

14 Glass of Water. 

A Pinch of Carmine. 

Peel the almonds whole, and theft 
rub them well with a linen cloth, 
to take off any dust. Put them 
into a skillet with a pound of the 
finest white sugar, and a dash of 
Carmine, if you wish to tinge them 
to a beautiful rose. But they are 
very beautiful when a snowy white. 
Place the skillet on the fire, stir- 
ring all the time until the almonds 
crackle hard. Then take off the fire- 
and work until the sugar becomes 
sandy and well-detacheil from the 
almonds. Then separate one part of 
the sugar, and again put the almonds 
on the fire, stirring them lightly 
with a spoon as they again pick up- 
the sugar, paying strict attention to- 
the fire, that it be not too quick. 
When the almonds have taken up 
this part of the sugar, put in that 
which you have reserved, and con- 
tinue to parch until they have taken 
up all the -sugar. Then take a piece 
of paper and put it in a sieve, and 
throw the almonds upon it, shaking- 
around so as to separate those which 
still cling together. Each almoni 
must be separate and incrusted with, 
sugar. 

There used to be an old colored, 
woman who supplied the judges and 
attorneys of the Civil District Court 
near the St. Louis Cathedral alley, 
with Ittnches. She made these an- 
cient Creole "Amandes Pralinges" a. 
specialty, in a little cornet of pa- 



341 



per, just as the ancient Creole dames 
<io when serving them at their ele- 
gant festivities. 

Peanut Pralines. 

Pistaohes Pralinfies. 

1 Pound of Peanuts. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

Vi Glass of Water. 

A Piuch of Carmine, 

Peanuts, which have been dubbed 

"Pistaches" by the Creoles, may be 

made into delightful confections by 

cedure as outlined above for "Aman- 

<Jes Pralinees." 

Peanut Pralines, 

Pralines aux Pistaches. 

1 Pound of Peanuts. 
1 Pound of Brown Suffar. 
4 TablesBoonfuls of Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Shell the peanuts and break into 
tits. Then set the sugar and water 
to boil, and as It begins to simmer 
add the peanuts and the butter. Stir 
constantly and as it bubbles up once 
take from the Are, pour from the 
spoon on the marble slab or a but- 
tered plate, and set away to harden. 

Molasses Candy. 

fcandi Tirfi a, la Melassee. 

Louisiana is rightly the home of 
Molasses Candy, for It was right 
here, in this old city, in the envi- 
ronments of -which sugar was first 
raised in the United States, and mo- 
lasses, sweet and health-giving, was 
first given to the world, that Mo- 
lasses Candy, or "Candi Tirg," as 
the Creoles call it, first had birth. 
"Candi Tir6" parties, or Molasses 
Candy Pullings, were among the 
pleasurable incidents of life among 
the early New Orleans belles and 
beaux. Take 

1 Quart of Louisiana Molasses. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Pound of Granulated Sugar. 

2 TablesDoonfuls of Vinesar. 

y^ TeasDoonful of Soda. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Boil the sugar until it becomes 
quite thick when dropped into wa- 
ter. Add the molasses and the vin- 
•egar and 'butter. Boil till it hardens 
when dropped into cold water. Then 
stir in a small half teaspoonful of 
bicarbonate of soda, and pour into 
buttered tins, and as soon as it be- 
gins to cool sufficiently pull till 
white. Moisten the hands while pull- 
ing with ice water or butter. The 
sticks may be single, twisted, braid- 
ed or flattened, according to taste. 
, It was a treat to the children of 
this generation to see the old col- 
ored women going about with their 
great salvers, on which were laid 
snowy napkins and rows upon rows 
of beautiful white "Candi Tir6," or 



"Pulled Candy," as the name indi- 
cated. The old women used to sit 
in the school yards at the noon re- 
cess, and every day their stores were 
exhausted, whether they had "Pra- 
lines," "La CoUe," or "Candi Tir6." 
Each school had its regular "Candy 
Woman," who made it her duty to 
be there exactly as the clock struck 
■twelve. Many a faithful old ne- 
gress helped to support her former 
mistress in the broken fortunes of 
the family after the war by her sale 
of Molasses Candy, Pralines, La CoUe 
or "Mai's Tactac." 

L.a CoUe. 

2 Pounds of Brown Sugar. 

Or 1 Pint of Molasses. 

2 Cups- of Louisiana Pecans. 
"La- CoUe" is a delightful kind of 

molasses praline cake that the old 
tiegro cake and candy vendors make 
out of black molasses and pecans 
or peanuts. These cakes are placed 
in dainty white paper cases and 
dried, and sold, to the delight of the 
little Creole children, and older folks 
too, for that matter. They are made 
by taking two pounds of brown su- 
'gar, and boiling it down to almost 
'one pint of syrup. To this dark 
syrup add two cups of pecans, cut 
'or mashed i-n various irregular 
sizes. Then, when it becomes so 
thoroughly boiled that it passes like 
a thread between the fingers, they 
Ipour it into small white paper cases 
about four inches long and two 
■jnohes wide, making the cake about 
fei half or quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness. Tbey set these to dry, and 
always find a ready sale for them. 
The cases are made out of white 
foolscap paper, folded neatly like 
the light cover of a box. 

Or, take one pint of Molasses and 
bring to a boil. Throw in the pea- 
nuts, and then fill the little paper 
cases. Either way, "La CoUe" is al- 
ways in demand from the faithful 
old vendors. 

Pop-Corn Candy. 
"Tac-Tac." 

1 (Juntul of White Suaar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Tiblespoonfuls of Water. 

3 Quarts of Nicely-Popped Corn. 
Put the butter, water and sugar 
into a boiler, and boil till It begins 
to almost run to candy; then throw 
in the nicely popped corn; stir vig- 
orously over the fire until the sugar 
is evenly distributed over the corn; 
then take the kettle from the fire 
and stir until it cools a little. In 
this way you will have each grain or 
kernel separate and coated -with su- 
gar. If you wish, pile it into mounds 
and roll into balls while still hot 
enough for the grains to adhere. 
These are put into dainty rolls of 



342 



tissue paper and sold along the 
streets of New Orleans. 

Mais "Tac-Tac." 

1 tmc of Louisiana Molasses. 
% Found of Indian Com (Parcbed). 

Boil one pint of Louisiana molas- 
ses, and, as it comes to the boiling 
point, throw in about three-quarters 
of a pound of parched Indian corn, 
parched to a blossom; stir well, and 
then pour into little paper cases, 
about five or six inches in length, 
three in width and one and a half in 
depth. Let these cool before touch- 
ing. This is another of the peculiar 
forms of candies sold by the old 
Creole negroes of New Orleans. 

CARAMELS. 

Caramels. ' 

1 Fonnd of Clarified Suear. 
Sufficient Water to Melt. 

Take one pound of clarified su- 
gar and add just sufiicient water to 
melt; boil it till it is very brittle 
and has the slightest odor of be- 
ginning to burn; then pour it on a 
buttered slab or plate, and, as soon 
as it is cool -enough to receive an im- 
pression from the finger, cut it out 
with a common case knife into small 
squares of about an inch in size, af- 
ter which glace with another coat- 
ing of sugar. Let them dry and keep 
them tightly closed, as they are eas- 
ily injured and become soft by con- 
tact with the atmosphere. 

Chocolate Caramels, 

Caramels au Chocolat. 

U Pound of Chocolate. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

^ Cup of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonfnl of Butter. 

1 Teasnoonful of Vanilla. 

Set the sugar to boil; scrape the 
chocolate in the milk, and add it to 
the boiling sugar, and stir in the 
butter; then boil till it forms a sy- 
rup. Take from the fire and turn 
upon a greased slab or upon a but- 
tered dish or pan that is quite 
square. When it begins to cool suf- 
ficient to receive an impression from 
the finger, cut into small squares 
vrith the case-knife and set in a 
cool, dry place to harden. A good 
test as to whether the mixture is 
done is to drop a little from the end 
of a spoon into a cup of cold wa- 
ter. If it begins to harden instant- 
ly, it is ready to take from the 
stove. 

The Cream Chocolate Caramel Is 
made in the same way, only cream 
Is used instead of milk. Again, the 
Chocolate Caramel may be made sim- 
ply by dissolving four ounces of 
chocolate in a little water and add- 
ing to a syrup made of one pound of 
sugar. 

To any of the above recipes, es- 



sence of vanilla, orange or lemon 
may be added, in which case you 
will have Vanilla or Orange or Lem- 
on Cream Caramels. In making the 
Lemon Caramels, however, grate the 
zest of the lemon with a lump of 
sugar, and then add to this the lem- 
on juice and water enough to dis- 
solve the sugar. Stir the whole into 
the boiled Caramel a few minutes 
before taking from the fire. Orange 
and Lime Caramel may also be made 
from the fruits in this manner. 
Caramel Oranges. 
Oranges au Caramel. 

6 Oranffes. 

2 Cups of Suxar. 

1 Tablespoonfnl of Butter. 

Peel and quarter the oranges in 
their natural divisions, being care- 
ful not to break through the pith or 
allow the juice to escape. Then 
string them on fine wire, or take up 
on the point of a hatpin and dip into 
the Caramel. When sufficiently 
coated, place them in the stove for 
a few minutes to dry and "Glacfie," 
or Glaze. (See recipe under Icings 
for Cakes, etc.) 

Caramel Chestnnts. 

Marrons au Caramel. 

1 Pound of Chestnuts. 

2 Cups of Suear. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Take fine, large Chestnuts, and 
transfix them on a hatpin or on small 
pointed sticks. Dip them in the 
Caramel, and then dry and Glacfie 
them. (See Glac€e under heading 
Icings for Cakes, etc.) 

BOXBONS. 

Candy Drops. 

Pastilles. 

1 Pound of Suffar. 

Water to Bllute. 

Flavoring Extract ■ to Taste. 

These are favorite candies with the 
Creoles, and very easy to make. They 
may be of any size, a lozenge, a 
tablet or a drop, and they may also 
be of any color. Pound and sift a 
pound ,of sugar that has been doubly 
refined, first through a coarse and 
then through a fine sieve. Put in 
an earthen vessel, and add the flav- 
oring extract, whether of lemon, 
orange, cinnamon, cloves, rose or 
violet or vanilla or carmine. Dilute 
the sugar with a little water and the 
liquid. It must not be too thin, or 
It will run, nor too thick, or it can- 
not be poured easily, but a nice 
rather stiff paste. Set the saucepan 
on the fire, being careful to select 
a saucepan that has a spout. As 
soon as the mixture begins to bub- 
ble up about the sides of the sauce- 
pan, stir It once well and take from 
the fire, and drop It In small lumos 



343 



through the spout of the saucepaii 
upon sheets of tin, and let it stand 
two hours to dry. Then put in the 
Stove a few seconds to finish drying. 
As they become hard and brilliant, 
take them out, else they will lose 
their flavor. 

Cceam Pastilles. 

Pastilles 9. la CrSme. 

1 Pound of Pine White Confectionery Sugar. 

1 TablesDoonful of Vinegar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Moisten the sugar with the water 
and set to boil. Add vinegar and 
Cream of Tartar. Let It boil till 
brittle. Then take from the fire and 
'add the Lemon Extract. Turn 
quickly on a wet slab or buttered 
plates. When it begins to' cool, pull 
till very, very white, and then cut 
into small squares of about a half 
inch. 

Orangre Pastilles. 

Pastilles 3, I'Orange. 

The Stra-ned Juice of 2 Oranges. 

% Ounce of Orange Sugar. 

3^ Ounces of Coarse Sugar. 

To make the orange sugar, rub the 
rind of the oranges on the sugar and 
dry. Then proceed to add the water 
and three and a quarter ounces of 
sugar and flavoring. As soon as it 
begins to dissolve in the pan, take 
a small wooden spoon and stir it 
for a few minutes. Then remove it 
from the fire, stirring continuously, 
and drop the pastilles upon a sheet 
of paper, cutting therti- off in -drops 
about the size of a pea with a curved 
piece of wire or a hairpin. When 
they are quite dry, turn the paper 
upside down, brush the reverse side 
with a paste brush 'slightly moist- 
ened with water, and shake off the 
pastilles with the point of a knife 
hpon a dry sieve. Then move the 
sieve to and fro over . a very slow 
fire, so that all the moisture may be 
removed from the drops, and keep 
them in well-bottled jars. 

The above recipe will serve as a 
guide for all Fruit and Liquor or 
Essence Pastilles. 

Frnlt Pastilles. 

Pastilles de Fruits. 

3^ Ounces of Sugar. 
% Ounce of Any Fruit Juice. 

All pastilles with fruit juices may 
be made in exactly the same man- 
ner as Orange Pastilles. Use one- 
half an ounce of juice and three and 
a half ounces of sugar, and add ar 
little more sugar if It appears liq- 
uid after taking from the Are. 



Ginger Pastilles. 

Pastilles de Gingembre. 

^ Ounce of Lemon Juice. 

3% Ounces of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Essence of Jamaica Ginger. 

Proceed in the same manner as for 
Orange Pastilles. 

Health Pastilles. 

Pastilles pour la Sant6.. 
6 Grains of SaSron. 6 (iralns of Musk. 
6 Grains of Ambergris. 
Va Drachm of Basil Seed. 
% Drachm of Orange Peel. 
18 Grains of Mace. 
18 Grains of Nutmeg. 
^-Djrachm of Storax Calamite. 
Pound the Musk, Storax and Am- 
bergis to a sugar, so as to extract 
all the resinous properties. Make 
the whole into a paste with a half 
pound of sugar and just enough 
Gum Tragacanth to give it sufficient 
consistency. Mix the paste thor- 
oughfy and then cut into small tab- 
lets that will weigh about a drachm 
each. Many of the old Creoles take 
these pastiles three or four times a 
day, as they facilitate digestion and 
create an excellent appetite. They 
are also excellent for persons suf- 
fering from debility. 

liemon Pastilles. 

Pastilles au Citron. 

14 Ounce of Water. 
314 Ounces of Sugar. 
14 Ounce of Lemon Juice. 
Proceed in the same manner as for 
Orange Pastilles. 

Liqueur Pastilles. 
Pastilles a, la Liqueur. 
A Small WIneglassful of Any Kind of Cor- 
dial or Llgueur. 
314 Ounces of Coarse Sifted Sugar. 
Cochineal or Carmine to Color, If Desired. 

Proceed in the same manner as 
for Orange Pastilles. 

Pastilles to Relieve Thirst. 

Pastilles pour la Soif. 
8 Grains of Tartaric Acid. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

20 Drops of Lemon Essence. 

Su clent Gum Tragacanth to Make a Paste. 

Take eight grains of Tartaric Acid.' 
one pound of sugar, twenty drops of 
Lemon Essence, and make a paste 
with all, adding a sufficient quantity 
of mucilage or Gum Tragacanth to 
make a paste. Cut out into tablets 
and dry in the open air. These tab- 
lets are excellent tn hot summer 
months. 

Rose Pastilles. 

Pastilles a, la Rose. 

1 Ounce of Water. 

314 Ounces of Sugar. 

4 Drops of Essence of Roses. 

3 Drops of Cochineal. 

Proceed in the same manner as for 
Orange Pastilles. 



344 



MarshmallOTP Drops. 

Tablettes de. Guimauve. 

% Pound of Wlrite Gum Arabic. 

1 Pint of Water. 

The Whites of 4 Ezgs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Vanilla. 

Dissolve the Gum Arabic in one 
pint of water and strain, and add 
one-ahlf pound of the finest white 
sugar, and place over the fire, stir- 
ring constantly all the time until 
the syrup is dissolved. Then grad- 
ually add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Stir in the 
mixture until it becomes thin and 
does not adhere to the fingers. Then 
flavor with the Vanilla Extract, and 
drop in tablets of about the size 
of a five-cent piece upon a sheet 
dusted with powdered starch. Make 
the shape of the tablets slightly con- 
vex, and in t"wo hours remove from 
the papers, dry for a few minutes 
in the stove and put away for use. 

Peppermint Drops. 

Pastilles 9, la Menthe. 

1 Cupful of Susar. 

14 Teaspoonful of Essence of Peppermint. 

A Pinch of Cream of Tartar. 

Crush the sugar very fine, and boil 
for five minutes with water just suf- 
ficient to moisten. Then take from 
the fire, and add the Cream of Tar- 
tar, and after mixing well add the 
Essence of Peppermint. Beat brisk- 
ly 'until the mixture begins to whiten 
well, and then drop upon white pa- 
per and dry in the open air. If it 
sugars before all is dropped, add a 
little water and boil again for two 
minutes. 

NOUGAT. 

Nougat. 

10 Ounces of Sif..e(i Sugar. 
1 Pound of Shredded Almonds, Dried. 
' A Few Drops of Essence of Vanilla. 

Put the almonds on a baking sheet 
or plate at the entrance of the oven. 
Let them heat through and through. 
In the meanwhile put the sugar in 
a pan or porcelain-lined saucepan, 
and set on a moderate stove. Keep 
stirring with a wooden spoon un- 
til it begins to melt. Then quicken 
the stirring, and as soon as the su- 
gar begins to form upon the sur- 
face in small white bubbles, like 
pearls, immediately throw in the 
almonds. Stir all gently until thor- 
oughly mixed, and then pour out on 
a wet marble slab, , and flatten to 
one-sixth of an inch in thickness. 
As soon as it begins to thicken, cut 
into rieces of about three inches 
long and two wide, or, better still, 
If you have fancy molds, line them 
thinly with the Nougat, having pre- 
viously slightly buttered them on the 
Inside. Cut the edges of the Nougat 
even and level before it becomes 



cold, for then it is brittle, and breaks 
easily. 

A very oharniing and elegant Cre- 
ole dessert is to take a dozen or so 
'of the Nougats, form into small bas- 
kets with an ornamental Caramel 
handle, fill the little basket with 
whipped cream and one or two 
strawberries on top. Serve cold. 

Again, the young Creole girls have 
a pretty way at Christmas and New 
Tear's of making dainty boxes of 
Nougat and sending them to their 
friends, lining the boxes about the 
edges with fresh leaves and rose- 
buds or violets, or simply tying them 
in white tissue paper with pink or 
baby blue ribbon. 

Parisian IVonsnts. 

Nougats a la Parisienne. 

8 Ounces of Scalded or Split Pistachio 

Kernels. 

6 Ounces of Susar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

A Few Drops of Prepared Cochineal. 

Boil the sugar till brittle, ami 
then add the Pistachio Kernels or 
Peanuts and the Cochineal. Add the 
flavoring and mix gently. Then 
pour the Nougat out on a marble 
slab, slightly buttered. Flatten out 
the Nougat by means of a hard lem- 
on slightly rubbed with butter to 
prevent sticking. Roll to about one- 
sixth of an inch in thickness, and 
before it cools sprinkle all over with 
snjall bits of granulated sugar, free 
from dust, and seeded raisins or 
cleaned currants. Press these light- 
ly in with the fingers, and then divide 
the sheets of Nougat while hot into 
small diamond shapes, about t"wo and 
a half inches long and one in width. 
This Is a very graceful form of des- 
sert, as well as an Inexpensive and 
elegant offering to friends at the 
holiday season. 

DRAG£:S:S. 

Almonds enter very largely into 
the composition of DragSes, as also 
Gum Arabic. Dissolve the Gum 
Arabic in a saucepan with enough 
water to color it, and then set the 
saucepan over a moderate fire. Stir 
in the mixture of candy a drop prep- 
aration, whether of Vanilla, Pepper- 
mint, Lemon, etc., and then mix 
thoroughly till the solution is com- 
plete. Strain through a sieve, and 
then, with a wire; shaped like a 
hairpin, out the candy preparation 
into the tiniest pieces of various 
sizes and shapes, and pour on a 
marble slab which has been oiled 
with butter or wet, to cool, and af- 
ter an hour or so set in the oven 
for a few minutes. In case they are 
not beautifully polished, give them 
another light coating with the solu- 
tion of Gum Arabic. The next day 
give them a finer polish by putting 



345 



them into a basin with a little solu- 
tion of sugar and rose water and a 
little starch, allowing .one part of 
starch to six of sugar. Swing the 
basin back and forward over a very- 
moderate fire, and continue until the 
Dragfies are quite dry. 

In making the Drag6es use the 
proportions given for Pastilles. 

Sugar Plums, 

Des Drag&es SuorSes. 

2 Pounda of Best Contectionery Sugar. 

Sufficient Water to DlssolTe. 

1 Found of Any Fruit. 

Sugar Plums, or crystallized fruits, 
are among the daintiest preparations 
of the Creole cuisine. They ai'e the 
real "Bonbons" so highly prized by 
the Creole girls. 

To crstallize fruits or candies in 
small quantities, take two pounds 
of the best sugar, and add sufficient 
water to dissolve it or to start it 
boiling. Let it boil to a syrup. Place 
'the fruit to be crystallized in a pan, 
and pour over the syrup. Turn the 
fruit lightly by shaking the pan till 
every side is coated, and set to cool. 
When cool, drain off the syrup and 
set the pans on their sides, so that 
remaining particles may be drained 
off, and every side be coated with 
the crystallized mixture. It is air 
ways best to pour the syrup over 
the fruit while it is warm, as it 
takes a firmer hold and makes a 
brighter crystal, but it will not hurt 
the fruit if the crystal warms them 
enough to make them very s,oft, as 
they will be all right when the syrup 
and fruits cool. A small batch of 
crystallized fruit may be prepared 
at noon, and be ready for a 6 o'clock 
dining. 

Fruits and almond paste bonbons 
should always be softened by the 
hot syrup, and it is always best to 
prepare the fruits two days in ad- 
vance when they will be sufficiently 
soft for a light crystal to form on 
them. 

Chocolate and other bonbons may 
be crystallized in the same way. 

Crystallized Oranges. 

Oranges Cristallisges. 

6 Oranges. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 

Sufficient Water to Dissolve. 

Crystallize oranges in quarters, 
keeping the skins from being punct- 
ured. Cherries, Strawberries and 
other berries are crystallized whole, 
Peaches and Apricots in halves, and 
so on. 

Crystallized Orange Blossoms, 
Fleurs d'Oranger CristallisSes. 

Pick the petals one by one from 
the flowers, and put them into wa- 



ter. Drain this off, and then squeeze 
the flowers with your hands to bruise 
them, and drain on a sieve. Make a 
fine syrup, equal in bulk to the flow- 
ers, clarify it and add the flowers. 
Let the syrup boil up about seven 
times. Then remove it from the fire 
and let it stand till the sugar forms 
a coating all around the petals. 
Then drain them, separate them on a 
paper for an hour or so, till per- 
fectly dry, and then put in boxes 
lined with white paper, and keep in 
a cool, dry place. 

Crystallized Violets. 

Violettes CristallisSes. 

1 Pound of Violet Petals, ^reslly Gathered. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Orange Blossoms, only 
do not squeeze the petals in your 
hands. These are among the dain- 
tiest of confections, and while they 
cost very high when purchased, they 
may be easily prepared at home. 

Crystallized Rose Petals, 

Feuilles de Roses Cristallisfies. 

Pound of Rose Petals. 
1 Pound o£ Sugar. 

Select beautiful red or pink rose 
petals that have been freshly gath- 
ered, and proceed in exactly the 
same manner as for Crystallized 
Violets. 

Crystallised Watermelon. 

Melon d'Eau Cristallis6. 
Take the bright red heart of the 
wa<termelon. Cut into dainty and 
fanciful forms, and place in a dish 
in the sun to dry. Make a syrup as 
directed above for Crystallized Fruits 
and with the point of a long hatpin 
or hairpin immerse the watermelon 
in it. Hang to dry from these points 
and you will have a beautiful crys- 
tallized fruit, the dainty pink and 
red of the melon showing through 
the transparent crystal icing. This 
is a beautiful confection for "red 
teas," "pink dinners," etc., where red 
or pink predominates in the decora- 
tions. 

Liqueur Bonbons. 
Bonbons a, la Liqueur. 

1 Pound of Su^ar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Essence or Liquor to Taste. 

Liqueur Bonbons are made of 
Boiled Sugar, flavored with some 
kind of liqueur. They are also 
flavored with the juice of fruits. Boil 
the sugar. Then remove the sauce- 
pan from the Are, and immerse it in 
a pan containing cold water, so that 
the sugar may cool quickly. Place a 
lid over the pan, to prevent the su- 
gar forming a crust on top by con- 



346 



tact with the air. Then roll the su- 
gar into balls or pellets, flatten out 
and work the flavoring, whether of 
any kind of liqueur, fruit or essence, 
or Essence of Coffee, into them. Then 
set them in a box or mold and thin- 
ly cover their surface with a little 
starch powder to prevent forming 
lumps, and dry in a moderately warm 
closet for about fifteen hours. As 
you remove the bonbons place them 
on a dry sieve apd brush off any 
remains of starch with a long-haired 
soft brush, for if any powder ad- 
heres it spoils the beauty of the bon- 
bons. 

Cream Bonbons. 

Bonbons 3i la Crdme. 

Bonbons a la Creme are famous 
Creole holiday candies. There is 
scarcely a Creole girl who does not 
pride herself upon her ability to 
make these dainty luxuries. 

Cream Bonbons, 

Bonbons a la CrSme. 

2 Pounds of the Finest White lelng Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Gum Arabic. 

The Whites of 2 Esgs. 

1 Gill of Any Essence Desired. 

These delicious bonbons are pre- 
pared by soaking two ounces of the 
finest Gum Arabic in a gill of hot 
water, and then using two pounds of 
the finest icing sugar, the whites of 
2 eggs, and a few drops of essence, 
and any cream, whether of Choco- 
late, Coffee, Cognac, Orange Flower, 
Maraschino or Lemon, which It is de- 
sired to use.,. The soaked gum must 
be strained through a piece of mus- 
lin bag into a bowl, and the essence 
added to it, and then it must be 
filled in with as much icing as it 
will hold, till it forms a stiff, yet 
elastic body. Then fill a biscuit 
forcer with the vanilla preparation 
mentioned above, and push it through 
upon a sheet of paper, well-dredged 
with sugar. As the contents are 
forced through, with a small knife 
cut off the cream, as it is pressed 
out, into pieces of about the size of a 
filbert. Place them in the baking 
pan in the oven for a few minutes, 
merely to dry their surfaces, and 
then dip these white balls into the 
chocolate icing, holding one at a 
tirhe on the tip of the fork, so as 
to be able to turn it all around and 
ice each part. Then put on a wire 
tray, set to dry in the oven for about 
ten minutes. 

Chocolate Cream Bonbons. 

Bonbons a la Cr§me de Chocolat. 

2 Pounds of Finest White Icing Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Gum Arabic. 

The Whites of 2 Esgs. 

4 Ounces' of French Chocolate. 

Soak two ounces of the finest Gum 

Arabic in a gill of hot water, and 



then add two pounds of the finest 
icing sugar, the whites of two eggs. 
The soaked gum must be strained 
through a piece of muslin bag into 
a bowl, and the essence added to it, 
and then it must be filled in with 
as much icing as it will hold, till 
it forms a stiff, elastic body. If it is 
desired to make Chocolate Creams, 
dissolve four ounces of French Choc- 
olate with about a tablespoohful of 
water, and incorporate this with the 
whites of two eggs, of Royal Icing. 
(See recipe.) Then fill a biscuit 
forcer with the vanilla preparation 
mentioned above and push it 
through upon a sheet of paper, well- 
dredged with sugar. As the con- 
tents are forced through, with a 
small knife cut off the cream, as it 
is pressed out into pieces of about 
the size of a filbert. Place them in 
the baking pan in the o.ven for a 
few minutes, merely to dry their 
surfaces, and then dip these white 
balls into the Chocolate Icing, hold- 
ing one at a time on the tip of the 
fork, so as to be able to turn it all 
around and ice each part. Then put 
on a wire tray, set to dry in the 
oven for about ten minutes. 

Coffee and Cognac Cream Bonbons. 

Bonbons a. la CrSme de CafS et de 

Cognac. 
2 Pounds of Finest White Icing Sugar. 

2 Founds of Gum Arabic. 

2 Ounces of Essence of Mocha Coffee. 

Vi Gill of Fine Old Cognac. 

Coffee and Cognac Cream Bonbons 
are made in exactly the same man- 
ner as the above, only instead of the 
Chocolate a half gill of fine old Co- 
gnac and two ounces of the essence 
of Mocha Coffee are used. Then gum, 
brandy and icing sugar are worked 
into a paste and then covered, as in 
Chocolate Creams, with the Royal 
Icing, fiavored with Essence of Cof- 
fee. 

Cherry and Noyeau Cream Bonbons. 

Bonbons a, la CrSme de Noyau et de 
Cerises. 

2 Ounces of Soaked Gum jirable. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 

1 Gill of Cherry Juice. 

% Gill of Noyeau. 
The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

Work the gum, Noyeau and su- 
gar to an elastic paste, and use the 
cherry Juice and whites of the eggs 
and some of the sugar for the Royal 
Icing. Then proceed as in Choco- 
late Cream Bonbons, the "white Noy- 
eau Cream forming the inside and 
the cherry-colored icing the out- 
side. 



347 



l.einon and Maraschino Cream Bon- 
bons. 

Bonbons Si la Cr6me de Citron et de 
Maraschino. 

2 Ounces of Soaked Gum Arabic. 

1 Ounce of Lemon Sucar. 

ii Gill of Maraschino. 

Use the same amount of soaked 
Gum Arabic, icing sugar, whites of 
eggs and one ounce of lemon su- 
gar, made by rasping the lemon on 
the sugar, and half a gill of Mara- 
schino. 

Follow the same directions as for 
Orange Bonbons, the Maraschino 
forming the cream for the inside, 
and the lemon sugar for the out- 
side. 

Orange Cream Bonbons. 

Bonbons a. la Crgme d'Orange. 

1 Ounce of Orange Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

% Gill of Oragne Flower Water. 

For Orange Flower Bonbons work 
the orange sugar, using one ounce, 
with the whites of the eggs, and 
make a Royal Icing. (See recipe.) 
Then work the gum. Orange Flower 
Water, using half a gill, and the 
icing sugar into a stiff paste, and 
proceed as in Chocolate Creams, 
finally covering with the Royal 
Icing, the white cream forming the 
interior of the Bonbons and the or- 
ange or yellow the outside. 
Cream Peanuts. 
Pistaches a, la Cr6me. 

1 Pound of Fine White Sugar. 
1 Teacupful of Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Vanilla. 
% Pound of Peanuts, Shelled. 

Boil the sugar and water till it 
comes to a thread. Flavor highly 
With extract of vanilla. Then take 
from the fire and stir until it is a 
creamy white. Throw in the pea- 
nuts. Drop in a little white granu- 
lated sugar. Then put them on a 
table on a piece of white paper, and 
shake well till each stands apart. 
Roll again lightly in white pow- 
dered or granulated sugar, and let 
them dry. 

L.OZE1VGBS. 

•Des Pastilles. 

1% Pounds of Finest White Icing Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Any Essence Preferred. 
1 Ounce of Gum Tragacanth. 

2 Ounces of Tepid Water. 

In making lozenges take one 
ounce of^Gum Dragon or Gum Trag- 
aoanth, and soak it in two ounces of 
tepid water for about six hours. Then 
squeeze and wring out through a 
cloth, and add about a pound and a 
half of fine icing sugar and the de- 
sired essence and flavor the lozenges 
In the proportion of about two ounc- 



es of essence to the quantities above 
given. If peppermint flavor is de- 
sired, use one teaspoonful, Then 
work this prepared gum on a marble 
slab, as you would knead dough, un- 
til it is firm and white, yet elastic. 
Gradually work in the sugar and 
add the essence and work till smooth 
and very elastic. Then roll the paste 
out with fine sugar dredged on the 
slab, and cut into ten-cent size 
pieces, and also into diamond shapes. 
Place them in rows upon sugar-pow- 
dered baking sheets and dry in the 
oven. They must be kept in a well- 
stopped Jar in a cool pla.ce. Orange, 
Clove, Lemon and Cinnamon Pas- 
tilles are all made in the same 
way. Every mother can thus make 
the candy that her children use, and 
know that there will be no dele- 
terious effects. 

Cough Liozenges. 

Pastilles pour la Toux. 

This book would not be complete 
without giving this famous old Cre- 
ole Cough Lozenge. Take 

1 Ounce of Gum Draeon. 

2 Ounces of Orange Flower Water. 

2 Pounds of Fine Sugar Icing. 

50 Drops of Paregoric. 

20 Drops of Ipecacuanha. 

1% Ounces Syrup of Squills. 

Work the gum on the slab with 
about one-third of the sugar, and 
then work in gradually the syrup of 
squills After working well add the 
rest of the sugar and again work. 
Lastly add the Paregoric and the 
the Ipecacuanh-a. Then proceed to 
finish these old-fashioned lozenges 
in the manner directed in the gen- 
eral recipe given below. 

Sugar as Employed In Candy Mak. 
Ing. 

Du Sucre. 

As mentioned above, always select 
the best granulated loaf sugar for 
making candies. Beware of glu- 
cose. As a general rule, loaf sugar 
will do for all candy making with- 
out clarification. Brown or yellow 
sugars are used for Caramels, dark 
Pralines and pulled Molasses Candy 
generally. 

Sugar is boiled more or less, ac- 
cording to the kind of candies one 
wishes to make. It is absolutely 
necessary to understand the proper 
degree of boiling if you wish to be 
successful in your efforts in mak- 
ing fine candies at home. The de- 
grees are, respectively, "The Small 
Thread," "The Large Thread," 
"Blow," "Soft Ball," "Hard Ball," 
"Crack and Caramel." The fol- 
lowing carefully prepared recipes 
will prove invaluable to the ama- 
teur: 



348 



Sugar Boiling. 

Le Cuisson du Sucre. 

3 Poands of Sucar. 
1 Pint of Water. 
To every three pounds of sugar 
allow a pint of water. Put to boil 
on a brisk fire, and skim carefully 
and wash on the sides with a hair 
brush dipped in water, to prevent 
the sugar from graining. 

Small Thread, 

Le Petit L,iss6. 

3 Pounds of Susar. 
1 Pint of Water. 
Dip the forefinger into iced water, 
and then into the boiling sugar, and 
instantly again into the iced water, 
to prevent burning the finger. Then 
pinch between the index finger and 
thumb. If a small thread forms, 
which breaks when the attempt is 
made to pull apart through the 
fingers, the proper degree is 
reached. 

Large Thread. 

Le Grand LissS. 

3 Pounds of Su2ar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Boil the suj;ar a little longer, and 
then try as before; if a thread forms 
that can be pulled two inches Tvitn- 
out breaking, this degree is reached. 
This is the best degree for preserves, 
etc. 

The Pearl. 

La Grande et la Petite Perle. 

3 Pounds of Suffar. 
1 Pint of Water. 
Let the sugar boil a little longer. 
If you find that on drawing It out 
to a thread it snaps quickly, and also 
that while boiling the sugar pre- 
sents the form of large pearls or 
globules on its surface, it will then 
have reached the small pearl de- 
gree. When the pearls become close- 
ly connected on the surface of the 
sugar, it will have reached the large 
pearl degree. 

The Blow. 

Le Souffle. 

3 Pounds of Surnr. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Continue boiling, and after a few 
minutes dip the skimmer in the boil- 
ing sugar. Strike it on the edge of 
the boiler. Blow through the holes, 
and you will find that if the sugar is 
of the right degree, it will form into 
small globules or air bubbles on the 
other side. This is the best degree 
for creams, and also gives a rich 
flavor to Preserves. 



The Feather. 

La Plume. 

3 Ponnds of Susar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Boil up the sugar a little longer, 
dip the skimmer in it, and on finding 
that it shivers into a thready fringe 
from the edge, it will have reached 
the degree called the "Feather." If 
large and elevated, the degree is the 
'T#arge Feather,'.' or "La Grande 
Plume." In a few minutes more 
they become small and flaky, and the 
next degree, the "Small Feather," or 
"La Petite Plume," Is reached. 

The Soft Ball. 

Le Petit Boulet. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Keep the sugar Boiling. Dip the 
finger into iced water and then into 
the boiling sugar and immediately 
into the water again. If the sugar 
has enough consistency to form a 
small ball when rolled between the 
finger and the thumb, the degree is 
reached. 

The Hard Ball. 

' Le Grand Boulet. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Continue the test, and if a firmer 
ball ;s formed, this degree is 
reached. 

The Crack or Snap. 

Le Cass6. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 
Continue boiling, and dip the fing- 
er after a few nioments in iced wa- 
ter and then in the boiling sugar, 
and instantly in the water again. 
The proper degree is reached when 
the sugar is placed between the 
fingers, and will not stick, or when 
distended it snaps hard and dry. The 
first degree is called 'Xiittle Crack," 
or "Le Petit CassS," and the second 
is called "The Big Crack," or "Le 
Grand CassS." This is a good de- 
gree for Fruits Glac6, etc. 

Caramel, 

Caramel. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Continue boiling till the sugar 
reaches a light brown color. Then 
take the vessel off immediately, or 
it will burn. Any degree beyond 
this renders the sugsar calcined and 
barely fit for cooking purposes. On 
taking the vessel from the fire, in- 
sert the bottom in cold water to 
prevent the sugar from burning. 



349 



To Clarify Sugar. 

Du Sucre Clarine. 

8 Pounds of Sugar, 

1 Pint of Water. 
The White of 1 Egg. 

In clarifying sugar lor Candies, 
take the whole white of an egg for 
brown sugar and half the white for 
refined sugar. Beat to a froth in a 
dish with about a cupful of water, 
adding it by degrees. Then put 
about eight pounds of sugar into a 
kettle, and dilute it with the half 
of the beaten egg. Let it become 
very thick. Set it over the fire, and 
let it boil up twice before you skim 
it. Then skim and continue to add 
the egg by degrees, until the scum 
is perfectly white. Take the skim- 
mer from the sugar, add another cup 
of cold water, to carry off any re- 
maining scum, take it from the fire 
and strain. The sugar is then kept 
for use. 

COLORING FOR CANDIES. 

Candies may be colored beauti- 
fully with such harmless prepara- 
tions as Cochineal, Carmine (when 
properlj'- prepared). Spinach, Indigo, 
Saffron or Burnt Sugar. 
Cochineal. 
Coohenille. 
1 Pound of Powdered- Cochineal. 
1 Ounce of Burnt Alum. 
2 Ounces of Salts of Tartar. 
2 Ounces of Cream of Tartar. 
12 Ounces of Su^ar. 

2 Quarts of Water. 
Cochineal is an extremely harm- 
less coloring matter, which is used 
extensively by the Creoles. It is 
made from the Cocus Cacti, an in- 
sect indigenous to Mexico, and which 
is found on several species of flg 
trees. The color is crimson, and 
wHen diluted in water it has a deep 
reddish-brown color,, and makes a 
beautiful coloring for Pralines and 
other preparations which demand it. 
It is sold by confectioners and drug- 
gists in preparations for the purpose 
of coloring candies, liqueurs and 
bonbons. 

Take one ounce of powdered Coch- 
ineal, one ounce .of salts of tartar, 
one ounce of burnt alum, two 
ounces of Cream of Tartar, twelve 
ounces of sugar, and two quarts of 
soft water. Boil the water in a' por- 
celain-lined vessel, and add the other 
ingredients. Remove from the Are, 
and then strain at once through a 
sieve or cloth, and bottle for use. 

Carmine. 

Carmin. 

2 Gallons of Water. 

3 Drachms of Powdered Alum. 

2 Drachms of Bismuth. 

2 Drachfns of Nltro-Murlate of Tin. 

2 Drachms of Nitric Acid. 

Carmine is made by pulverizing 



Cochineal in a stone mortar and put- 
ting it into water at pearly a boil- 
ing point. One ounce of Brazil 
wood, obtained from the druggist, 
and one ounce of powdered Cochi- 
neal are put into separate vessels 
with one quart of water each. The 
Cochineal is always put in the wa- 
ter in a linen bag. 

To make half a pound of the Car- 
mine used so extensively in Creole 
homes, simply pound the Cochineal 
in a mortar, add two gallons of wa- 
ter, and let it boil for an hour and 
a quarter. Then add about three 
drachms of nitro-muriate of tin, 
made by taking two drachms of ni- 
tric acid, two drachms of muriatic 
acid and one drachm of bismuth, and 
dissolving under a gentle heat. Con- 
tinue boiling the Cochineal ten min- 
utes longer, and strain the mixture 
through a tine cloth, and let it 
stand for eighteen hours. Pour off 
the water, and add the solution of 
tin, in three pints of water, and let 
it stand for five days longer, chang- 
ing the water every twenty-four 
hours. When free from any taste or 
smell the Carmine has been suf- 
ficiently washed, and is ready for 
use. Put into china saucers and 
dry in the stove. 

It is exceedingly dangerous to 
purchase Carmine, and often it is 
nothing more than a red lead mix- 
ture, and poisonous. The Creoles 
always make their own preparations 
of Carmine. 

Green (Splnacb.) 

Vert (Bpinards.) 

1 Pound of Young Spinach. 

A Few Grains of Powdered Alum, 

Pound one pound of young Spin- 

■aoh to a pulp, and then carefully 

squeeze all the juice out of it. Set 

to boil, and the moment it begins to 

curdle remove from the fire, and 

strain all the juice from it. Then 

add to the curd the same weight in 

sugar, a few grains of powdered 

alum, and a little alcohol, and bottle 

for use. Keep in a cool place. 

Yellow (Saffron.) 

Jaune (Saffran.) 

3 Ounces of Saffron. 

1 Ounce of Alum. 

20 Ounces of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Take three ounces of Saffron, one 

ounce of powdered Alum, twenty 

ounces of sugar, and one pint of 

water and boil all together. Strain 

and add a little alcohol, and bottle 

for use. 

Orange. 

Orange. 

1 Ounce of Yellow (Saffron.) 

1 Ounce of Cochineal. 

This color is obtained by mixing 

equal quantities of yellow and red 

(Cochineal.) 



350 



Bine. 

Bleu. 

1 Pound of SB;ar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

jL Ounce of Indlso. 

1 Tablespoonful of Alcohol. 

Take one pound ot sugar, one pint 
of water and boil to a syrup. Add 
one ounte of Indigo, powdered very 
fine. Let all coil. Then add a lit- 
tle alcohol, and strain and bottle. 

Burnt Sugar. 

Sucre BrQl§. 

1 Pound of Granulated Suffar. 
1 Quart of Water. 

Take one pound of granulated su- 
gar, and set it on the fire, and stir 
with a wooden spoon until thorough- 
ly dissolved and burnt black. Add 
one quart of water, and let it boil 
until thoroughly dissolved. Bedvc<> 
to half the quantity and strain and 
bottle for use. To make colored su- 



gar, add- a little coloring and mix 
thoroughly. Then dry in an oven, 
and keep in a jar. 

Taniila Sugar. 

Sucre a. la Vanille. 

2 Pounds of Loaf Suzar. 
3 Vanilla Beans. 
Take three vanilla beans and cut 
them into shreds. Uet them dry, 
and then pound them with about two 
pounds of fine loaf sugar. When 
reduced to a very fine powder, sift, 
put in a jar and cork tight. 

Liemon Sngar. 

Sucre au Citron. 

Tlie Zest of 3 T.emoDS. 
1 Pound of Loaf tjugar. 

Grate the zest or outer rinds of 
the lemons on pieces of loaf sugar, 
and then set to dry. When dry, 
pound very fine, sift, and put in a 
jar and cork tight. Orange Sugar 
is prepared in the same manner. 



CHAPTER XLVI. 



. CANNING OR PICKLING. 



Conservation des Substances Ali- 
mentaires et V6g6tales. 



The best method of pickling, and 
the surest, is to put the substance 
to be pickled in a glass bottle or a 
tin can that has been hermetically 
sealed, and subject it to a tempera- 
ture ranging from 80 to 100 de- 
grees, in a water bath, or "bain- 
marie," always taking the previous 
precaution to eliminate all air from 
the vessel before sealing it. 

The great success of canning and 
preserving is to exclude the air and 
to can while hot, filling thte vessel 
to the brim. Have your jars in a 
vessel of hot water on the stove. 
Roll them In the hot water, and then 
fill immediately to the top with the 
hot boiling fruit or vegetables. Have 
the tops of the jars ready and 
heated, and seal quickly, screwing 
down every few moments a little 
tighter, as the ingredients cool and 
the glass consequently contracts. 
Keep the jars in a cool, dark place. 

Attention to a few rules will make 
it possible for each housekeeper, es- 
pecially the Louisiana country 
housewife, to put up all her own 
goods, whether of vegetables or 
fruits or pickles. 



Canned Corn. 

Du Mais en Conserve. 

S Quarts of Coru.^ 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard to Each Quart 

of Com. 

Boil the corn on the cob until no 
milk will exude if the grains ar» 
pricked with a needle. Then cut the 
corn off the cob, and pack into cans 
or stone jars, putting first a layer of 
salt half an inch deep, and then a 
layer of corn two inches deep, and 
continuing with these alternate lay- 
ers until the jar is nearly filled. The 
top layer must be of salt, and about 
an inch thick. Pour over all this 
melted lard in proportion of about 
a tablespooful to a quart of the corn. 
Set on the flre, in a bain-marie, and 
let all the bubbles come to the sur- 
face. Take off, stick a silver fork 
down into the jar, to see that all 
bubbles have ceased to form. Seal 
hermetically, and then set in a bain- 
marie, at a temperature of from 80 
to 100 degrees, and let it cool. Keep 
In a cool place, and use as wanted. 



351 



Canned Tomatoes, 

Des Tomates en Conserves. 

8 Dozen Tomatoes. 
A Bain Marie. 

Pour boiling water over the To- 
matoes to loosen the skins. Then 
skin the Tomatoes, and bring to a 
hard boil for twenty minutes. Then 
drain and can as quickly as possible, 
excluding all air. Set in a bain-ma- 
rie to cool, and keep in a cool, dark 
place. 

Canned Mushrooms. 

Des Champignons en Conserve. 

8 Quarts of MusLrooms. 

Cook the mushrooms for three- 
quarters of an hour in salted water, 
drain lightly and can them, exclud- 
ing all air. Submit to the "bain-ma- 
rie," letting them cool gradually. 
Keep in a cool place. 

Canned Green Peas. 

Des Petits Pois en Conserve. 
1 Dozen Quarts of Green Feas. 

Select the youngest and most ten- 
der peas, put them in boiling water, 
and let them cook for about thirty 
minutes. Drain lightly, and can im- 
mediately, excluding all air. 

Other vegetables may be canned 
in almost the same identical man- 
ner. 

PICKIiES. 

Des Cornichona. 

Pickles should not be made in ves- 
sels of brass, copper or tin, and should 
always be put up in glass bottles or 
hard stoneware. Only the best vin- 
egar should be useii. All vinegar 
should be scalded before using with 
pickles, otherwise it will not keep 
well. This is a fact that must be re- 
membered if you wish for success. 

In sour pickles use only the best 
cider vinegar. Never boil it, but sim- 
ply bring it to the boiling pomr, be- 
fore you pour it over the pickles. 
Always add a small piece of alum to 
Cucumber or Gherkin Pickles, if you 
wish them to be a beautiful green and 
crisp. 

Never use any but a wooden spoon 
in putting up pickles, and be careful 
in the use of spices, so that no one 
flavor will predominate, but that all 
will unite in a most agreeable whole. 

Pickles must be kept in a cool, 
dark place, and always -prell-covered 
with vinegar. 

The jars should be examined at fre- 
quent intervals. If white specks make 
their appearance in the vinegar, draw 
it off, scald and add. If the pickles 
are sweet, two tablespoonfuls of su- 
gar and a few cloves. 



Sweet Pickles. 

Cornichons Sucrfis. 

100 Small Cucumbers. 

3 Dozen Black Peppers. 

1 Dozen Allsiiice. 

1 Dozen Blades of Mace. 

3 Dozen Black Peppers. 

3 Dozen Cloves. 

1 Cur of Sugar. 

1 Gallon of Boilinc Viufifiar. 

Wash the Cucumbers, selecting nice 
small ones, of about a finger in 
length. Cover them with a strong 
brine, sufficiently strong to bear an 
egg. Put a cover on the jar, and let 
them stand for about three days. 
Then take them out and throw away 
the brine, rejecting all the pickles 
that have become soft under pres- 
sure. Put into a kettle of fresh 
water, and add a little powdered alum 
allowing about a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful, or a piece about half the 
size of a bird's egg, to one gallon of 
liquid. Put a close lid over all the 
boiler, and steam, without letting 
them boil, for about four or five hours. 
To one hundred small cucumbers or 
a gallon, allow three dozen black pep- 
pers, one dozen blades of mace, three 
dozen cloves, one dozen allspice, all 
whole, and one cup of sugar. Boll 
five minutes. Place the pickles in 
clean jars, and pour over the boiling 
vinegar. These pickles must then be 
corked closely. Three days after take 
or draw off this vinegar, boil it again, 
and again pour over the pickles. Re- 
peat this operation three times, at 
about intervals of three or four days. 
Then cover with a stout cloth, cork 
with a wooden or cork stopper, and 
in about two months they will . be 
ready for use. Examine from time 
to time. 

Sour Pickles. 
Cornichons au Vinaigre. 

100 Small Cucumbers. 

A Boilins Brine. 

24 Whole Spices. 

1 Ounce of Mustard S-eed. 

12 Small Bed Perpers. 

6 Blades of Mace. 
8 Cloves. 2 Onions. 

.Take about 100 small Cucumbers, 
and place them In a jar. Cover .them 
with boiling brine that will be 
strong enough to bear an egg. Let 
them stand for several days. Then 
take them out of the brine, wipe them 
well, and place them in clean jars. 
Add two dozen whole spices, one 
ounce of mustard seed, and six blades 
of mace, eight cloves, two chopped 
onions, and the red peppers. Cover 
them with boiling vinegar and cork. 
In several weeks they will be ready 
for use. 

If you wish the pickles to be very 
green, put them into cold vinegar, 
and set on the stove, and let them 



352 



heat slowly over a moderate fire till 
they are green; or, after the fourth 
day in which they have stood in the 
brine, pour this off, and take a por- 
celain-lined kettle, and line the bot- 
tom with fig and grapevine leaves, 
put the cucumbers in. with a small 
piece of alum, cover them closely with 
the vine leaves, and then pour cold 
water sufficient to almost fill the ket- 
tle. Cover closely with an inverted 
pan or a dish, and let them steam, 
slowly for four or five hours, till they 
are green. When a beautiful green, 
take out of the kettle, drain, sea- 
son as above, pour over boiling vin- 
egar, boil for five minutes, and they 
will be ready to be bottled for fu- 
ture use. 

Boine-SIaae Choiv-Cliow. 

Variantes a. la Moutarde. 

1 Head of Cauliflower. 
% Head of Cabbage, Cut as for Slaw. 
1 Quart of Tiny Cucumbers, the Very Small- 
est Kind. 
1 Quart of Small Button Onions. 
2 or 3 Pods of Green and Red Peppers. 
Chopped Fine. 
% Pound of French Mustard. 
% Teacunful of Celery Seed. 
1 Teacupful of Horseradish. 

1 Whole Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

1 Pint of Strinc Beans. 
1 Qill of Salad Oil. 
% Gallon of Vinegar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Mustard Seed. 

1 Cupful of Brown Sugar, 
14 Ounce of Tumeric, 

Shred the cabbage as for cold slaw, 
and cover the bottom of a stone jar 
with the cucumbers and the cab- 
bage. Then cover with a brine of 
salt and water strong enough to float 
an egg. Let them stand for twenty- 
four hours. At the end of that time 
boil the cauliflower, the onions and 
the beans in separate pots till ten- 
der. Then drain off all water. Mix 
them with the cucumbers and the 
cabbage. Put the vinegar into a 
porcelain-lined kettle, and let it come 
to a boil. Add the mustard seed, the 
celery seed, the grated horseradish, 
the minced garlic, and the pepper 
pods, cut fine. Let all boil for about 
five minutes, and stir constantly till 
it begins to thicken. Then add the 
sugar and make a paste of the Tu- 
meric, the mustard and the salad oil, 
moistening With a little cold vin- 
egar, and pour into the mixture. Stir 
well and pour while boiling hot over 
the vegetables. Put it away in stone 
jars, and in about ten days it will be 
ready for use. 



Mixed Pickles. 

Variantes. 
1 Head ol Cauliflower. 
Vi Head of Cabbage, Cut as for Slaw. 
1 Quart of Tiny Cucumbers, the Very Small- 
est Kind. 

1 Quart of Small Button Onions. 

2 or 3 Pods of Green and Bed Feppera. 

Chopped Fine. 

% Pound of French Mustard. 

H teacupful of Celery Seed. 

1 Teacupful -of Grated Horseradish. 

1 Whole Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

1 Pint of Strinir Beans. 
1 Gill of Salad Oil. 

m LralloQ of Vlnecar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Mustard Seed. 
1 Cuuful of Brown Su£;ar. 

^ Ounce of Tumeric. 

Take young cauliflower heads, small 
onions, peppers, cucumbers out in dice, 
nasturtiums and string beans, in the 
proportions given above, and boil 
till tender. Drain very dry, and pack 
in wide-mouthed bottles. Boil in one 
pint of cider vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
salt and tTvo tablespoonfuls ,of mus- 
tard seed and spices. Pour over the 
pickles, mix well, and seal carefully. 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

Choux-Pleurs Confits au Vinaigre. 

3 Dozen Cauliflowers. 

To Each Quart of Vinegar 2- Teaspoonful* 

of Mustard and a Half Cns of 

White Sugar. 

Boil the cauliflower for about twen- 
ty minutes in salt and water; then 
remove and drain, and break care- 
fully, and let them get cold. Pack in 
a jar and pour over them hot Spiced 
Vinegar (see recipe), which you will 
have strained, having first stirred 
into each quart of vinegar two tea- 
spoonfuls of French mustard and a 
half cup of white sugar. Cover the 
Cauliflower well with the mixture 
and bottle tight. 

Green Pepper Pickles, 

Piments Verts Counts au Vinaigre. 

2 Dozen Green PepDers. 
1 Dozen Red Peopers. 

Vi Large Head of Cabbage. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Mustard Seed. 
1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 

1 Tablespoontul of Ground Allspice. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt. 

Cut the tops from the peppers and 
remove the seeds. Then put a tea- 
spoonful of salt into each pepper, 
cover with cold water, and soak for 
twenty-four hours. Chop the cab- 
bage very fine, and mix well with the 
ground spices, mustard seed and salt. 
When thoroughly blended, stuff the 
peppers with this mixture. Then put 
on the tops, and stand upright in 
stone jars, and cover with cold vin- 
egar. In handling the peppers use 



353 



a napkin or gloves, as they will 
blister the hands. 

Green Tomato Pickles. 

Tomates "Verts Confites au Vinaigre. 

1 Peck of Green Tomatoes. 

1 Dozen Onions. 1 Ounce of CloveB. 

1 Ounce of Mustard Seed. 

1 Tablespoonful of White Mustard Seed. 

1 Cupful of Salt, 

% Teaspoonlul of Red Pepper, or the Pods 

' Cut into Strl»s. 

1 Ounce of Cloves. 

1 Ounce of Blaclx Pepper. 

Slice the tomatoes and the onions. 
' Then put a layer of tomatoes and a 
layer of onions, and sprinkle with 
salt, and continue till all are used 
up. Let them stand over night. In 
the morning drain off all the liquor 
that has cacumulated, and put the 
vegetables Into a porcelain-lined 
pot with all the other Ingredients, 
and cover with two Quarts of vin- 
egar. Let all simmer gently for a 
quarter of an hour, and then put 
away in stoae jars, letting the vine- 
gar cover the pickles, and boiling 
while hot. 

This recipe is for Sour Green To- 
mato Pickles. The Sweet Green To- 
mato Pickles are made by adding 
one cup of sugar to the above in- 
gredients. 

Plcfeled Mangoes. 

Mangos Conflts au Vinaigre. 

24 Pepper Mangoes or Young Melon Mangoes 

or Muskmleons. 

A. Piece of Alum the Size of a Pecan. 

% Pound of Ginger. 

}4 Ounce Bach of Black Pepper, Mace, AU- 

sDice, Tumeric. 

■^4 Pound of Garlic. 

% Pint of Grated Horseradish. 

% Pint Bach of Black and White Mustard 

Seed. 

% Teacupful of the Best Olives. 

Vj Head of Fine Young Cabbage. 

4 Green Tomatoes. 

Take tw^o dozen Pepper Mangoes or 
young Muskmelons that are no larger 
than an orange. Let them lie for two 
weeks in a brine stpong enough to 
float an egg. Then soak them in 
pure water for two days, changing 
the water every day. Remove the 
seed by cutting a slit down the side 
of the Mangoes, but do not take the 
meat out. Rinse in cold water. Put 
a layer of green grape leaves in a 
kettle, and lay on this a layer of 
Mangoes, and then a layer of leaves, 
and so continue till all are used 
up. Let the top layer be of grape 
leaves. Now add a piece of alum 
about the size of a pecan, and pour 
vinegar over the mixture, and let 
all boil for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Then take out the leaves, and 
let the Mangoes remain in this vin- 
egar for five or six days. Prepare 
a stufl5ng of half a pound of gin- 



ger, which has been soaked in brine 
for two days and which you will have 
cut into small dice; one-haif on ounce 
each of black pepper, mace, allspice. 
Tumeric; one-quarter of a pound of 
garlic, which has been soaked In 
brine for twenty-four hours and 
dried; a half pint of grated horse- 
radish, and a half pint each of black 
and white mustard seed. Bruise all 
the spices well till fine, and mix them 
with a half teacupful of the best 
olive oil. Take a half head of fine 
solid cabbage, and chop fine; add a 
half pint of finely-chopped onions, 
a few small cucumbers, and a few 
green tomatoes, which have lain in 
a brine overnight. Drain all well 
and then select any imperfectly 
shaped mangoes, or any that have 
become too soft to stuff, and chop 
these fine with the spices; mix all 
this stufiing well together, and stuff 
the mangoes. Tie them with pieces 
of twine, or sew them up, put in a 
stone jar. and pour over them the 
very best cider vinegar. Set them in 
a dry place and cover well. At the 
end of a month add a pound and a 
half of brown sugar, and bottle for 
use. This preparation will keep for 
two years. 

Pickled Onions, 

Ognons au Vinaigre. 

100 Small Onion Buttons. 

1 Tablespoonful of Allspice. 

1 Tablespoonful of Black Pepper and 1 Red 

Pepper Pod to Bacb Pint of Vinegar. 

1 Dozen White Pepper Corns. 

1 Dozen Cloves. 

4 Blades of Mace. 

Select the smallest white button 
onions. Remove the outer skin, and 
then remove the inner skin with a 
silver knife. Steel will blacken the 
onions. Pack them in well-washed 
and carefully dried jars. Then pour 
over the onions a strong brine, and 
let them stand for twenty-four hours. 
At the end of this time pour off this 
brine and add another, and let them 
stand twenty-four hours longer. On 
the fourth day make another strong 
brine, and let it come to a boil, and' 
throw in the onions, and let them 
boil just five minutes. Then throw 
them into cold water for several 
hours. At the end of three hours 
drain off all water and pack closely 
in jars, allowing one tablespoonful 
of black pepper and a red pepper 
pod to every pint of vinegar. While 
-packing the onions. Intersperse them 
with white pepper corns and the 
spices, with an occasional piece of 
mace or cloves. Fill this up with 
the scalding vinegar, and cork or 
bottle while very hot. 

If you desire the pickles to be 
slightly sweet, allow a tablespoonful 
of sugar to every pint of vinegar. 
After three weeks they will be ready 



354 



for use, but, like all picklea, will be 
better if allowed to stand a month 
or two. 

Pickled String Beans. 

Haricots Verts Confits. 

To Every 7 Pounds of Beans Allow One 

Quart of Best Cider Vinegar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Alum, 

1 Ounce of Cloves. 

6 Red Pepper Pods. 

Take young tender beans, and cut 
the two extremities lightly, and 
string carefully. Throw them into 
fresh water for several hours. "Wash 
well and drain, and rut them into 
earthen jars. Pour over boiling vin- 
egar, spiced as for Tomato Pickle, 
and allow one-quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered alum to each quart of 
vinegar. Cover and cork well. Three 
days aft.er pour off this vinegar and 
boil again and pour over the pickles, 
and let them stand again for three 
days. Add a few cloves and pieces 
of red pepper pods, and bottle closely. 

Young cauliflower, radishes, white 
and red; young corn and melons that 
have just begun to form may be 
pickled according to the above re- 
cipe. 

Pickled Walermelon Rind. 

Ecorces de Melon d'Eau Confltes au 
Vinaigre. 

4 Pounds of Watermelon Rind. 

% Pint of Best French Vinegar. 

1 Pound of Mrown Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Mixed Ground Cloves, 

Mace, Cinnamon and Allspice. 

Cut the watermelon rind into strips, 
cook in clear water and drain. To 
four pounds of rind take one pound 
of brown sugar and half a pint of 
vinegar, and make a syrup, to which 
add the ground spices. Boil the wa- 
termelon rind in this syrup till quite 
tender. Put in jars while hot and 
seal. This is a sweet pickle. 

Pickled Fruits. 

Fruits Confits au Vinaigre. 

6 Pounds of Fruit. 

S Pounds of VPliite Sugar. 

1 Pint of Best Cider Vinegar. 

1 Ounce Each of Cloves, Allspice, Mace and 

Cinnamon. 

1 Nutmeg. 

In pickling fruits, whether peaches, 
pears, plums, damsons or cherries, al- 
low six pounds of fruit, three pounds 
of white sugar, and one pint of the 
best vinegar, and spices of mace, cin- 
namon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg 
in proportion. Put the fruit into a 
kettle with alternate layers of sugar 
and spices, and add the vinegar. Let 
all boil for about five minutes, and 
then skim out the fruit and pack In 
glass jars as It begins to cool. Let 



the syrup boil till thick, and then 
pour the boiling syrup over. Bottle 
tight, and examine from time to time. 
If they show signs of fermenting, 
open the jars or set them uncovered 
in a kettle of boiling water, and heat 
the contents till they begin to bubble 
and cork again. 

In pickling cherries, always leave 
the stems on the cherries, and to 
every quart allow a pint of vinegar 
and two large teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
a dozen cloves and allspice, and five 
or six blades of mace. Let the vin- 
egar and spices boil together for 
about five minutes, and then turn into 
an earthen jar and let them cool. 
Then strain and fill the pickle jars 
with the cherries about three-quar- 
ters full, and pour the cold vinegar 
over tiiem. Bottle tight, and keep 
in a cool place. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles are put up 
by using the ingredients mentioned 
above, allowing, however, a pint and' 
a half of vinegar to the above quan- 
tities of sugar and fruit. Stew the 
tomatoes, vinegar and spices to- 
gether for about three-quarters of 
an hour, and then bottle for use. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Sauce de Tomates. 

4 Pecks of Ripe Tomatoes. 
2 Quarts of Vinegar. 

li Pound of Salt. 

li Pound of Sugar. 

% Ounce of Black Pepper. 

% Ounce of Allspice. 1 Ounce of Mustard. 

1 Ounce of Ginger, Ground. 

One-third Ounce of Cloves, Ground, 

1-8 Ounce of Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

A Good Dash of Cayenne. 

% Pint of Alcohol. 

Set the tomatoes to boil in a por- 
celain-lined pot, and, after half an 
hour, press them through a sieve, to 
remove all the seeds and skin. Then 
return the liquid obtained to the pot, 
and let it reduce to three-quarters. 
Now add the vinegar, and let all re- 
duce to about one and a quarter 
quarts. Mix thoroughly, and add the 
spices, garlic, ground mustard, pep- 
per, etc., and let all come to a boll, 
stirring continually. Then take from 
the fire, and add the alcohol. Bottle 
while the mixture is very hot, and 
seal well. This is an excellent re- 
cipe, and the above sauce is very 
good, served with cold boiled fish, 
oysters, etc. The Creoles often add 
a half bottle of Port Wine, instead 
of the vinegar. 

Cliervil Vinegar. 

Vinaigre au Cerfeuil. 

1 Pint of Dried or Fresh Chervil Leaves. 
1 Quart of Best French Vinegar. 

Hake a wide-mouthed bottle, and 
half fill it with either fresh or dry 
Chervil leaves. Pill the bottle with the 



355 



best vinegar, and set it in hot water 
till it reaches the boiling point. Then 
remove from the fire. When cool 
cork and in about two weeks it will 
be ready lor use. The Creoles use 
this vinegar to add a flavoring to 
sauces for salads. 

Pepper Vimesar. 

Vinaigre Pimentfi. 

H Pint of Small Cherry or Chill- Peppers. 
% Pint of Best Trench Vinegar. 

Every Creole housewife keeps on 
hand a bottle of Pepper Vinegar. 
It is made by filling a pint bottle 
about half full of small Cherry Pep- 
pers or Chili Peppers, red and green, 
and then filling up with the best 
French vinegar or cider. Bottle 
well, and In about a week it will be 
ready for use. A peculiarity about 
this Pepper Vinegar is that the bot- 
tle may be filled again and again 
as it diminishes, without adding new 
peppers.. It is very strong and hot, 
and a few drops in one's soup or sal- 
ad will be found quite sufficient. 

Tarragon Vinegar. 

Vinaigre a, I'Bstragon. 

% Pint of Tarragon Leaves. 
1 Quart of Best Cider or White Wine. 

The best French vinegar is made 
from the Tarragon leaves. The French 
gather the leaves and expose them 
to the heat of the sun for several 
days. Then they throw them into the 
best Cider or White Wine and steep 
for about two weeks. The liquor is 
then carefully strained, a fiannel bag 
being generally used, and it is af- 
terwards bottled, corked and sealed, 
and kept in a cool place for exporta- 
tion. 

Tarragon Vinegar may also be made 
by purchasing Tarragon leaves from 
any druggist, and allowing a half 
pint of the leaves to a quart bottle 
filled with the best Cider or White 
Wine, and follow the directions given 
above. 

Spiced Vinegar. 

Vinaigre AromatisS. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1% Gallons of the Best Cider or White Wine. 

1 Ounce Eacli of Cloves, Allspice, Mace, 

Celery and Mustard Seed. 

1 1-3 Ounces Each of Black Pepper, Tumeric 

and White Ginger. 

Mix all the spices together with 
the vinegar and the bits of ginger, 
and place in an earthen jar and cover 
closely. 

For smaller proportions take one 
quart of cider vinegar, and put it 
into one-third of an ounce each of 
dried mint, dried parsley, one grated 
garlic, two small onions, two cloves, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, corns of 
grated nutmeg, salt to taste, and one 



tablespoonful of sugar and good 
Bjandy. Put all into a jar, and let 
it stand for three weeks; then strain 
and bottle. 

Tabasco. 

Tabasco a, la CrSole. 

3 Dozen Large Bed Peppers. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 
U, Pint of Hot Spiced Vinegar. 

This is one of the most famous of 
our Creole sauces. It is made from 
celebrated Louisiana Tabasco Pep- 
pers, whose flavor is unsurpassed. The 
hot peppers are much sought alter. 
The following method of preparing 
this famous Sauce a, la Crgole is the 
one used in all the ancient Creole- 
homes of Louisiana. Take three doz- 
en large red Tabasco peppers or Chili 
peppers, and one clove of garlic, 
chopped very fine, and scald them un- 
til very tender. Then mash the pep- 
pers and garlic together, and press 
them through a sieve. Take the paste 
thus formed and dilute it with spiced 
vinegar till it reaches the consis- 
tency of rich cream. Bottle and seal 
for use. The garlic may be omitted. 

Red Pepper Catsup Sk la Cr£ole. 

Sauce de Poivre Rouge a, la Creole. 

4 Dozen Pepper Pods. 
2 Quarts of Best French Vinegar. 
> 3 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Horseradish. 
5 Onious. 1 Garlic. 

Take four dozen pods of ripe green 
peppers, two quarts of vinegar, one 
of water, three tablespoonfuls of 
grated horseradish, five onions, sliced, 
and one garlic. Boil all together till 
the onions are very soft. Then mash 
all together to a paste and strain, 
rubbing through the sieve till noth- 
ing remains but the seeds and skins. 
When cold, bottle and cork tightly for 
use. 

Maunsell-White. 

This is a famous Creole prepara- 
tion, and it bears the name of the 
family that originated it. In Maun- 
sell-White the infusion of Cayenne 
is so hot that only a few drops suf- 
fice, but the taste is most pungent 
and stimulation to the palate, and is 
especially agreeable when eating oys- 
ters with Oyster Bread, or "Hard 
Tack." 

Creole Mustard. 
Moutarde Creole. 

1 Pound of Creole Mustard. 

1 Pint of White Wine. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 

1 Tablespoonful of Celery Seed. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Allspice. 

2 Blades of Ground Mace. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Put a pint of white wine into a 
clean saucepan, add the mixed ground 



356 



spice, crushed clove of garlic, celery 
seeds and salt. Steep on the rear 
part of the stove for one hour, lilix 
the mustard, ground to a flour, into a 
smooth paste, with equal parts of ci- 
der and Tarragon Vinegar. Strain 
out the spices from the wine and add 
to the paste while, boiling hot. Mix 
thoroughly and bottle for use. 

Salted Almonds. 

Amandes Sal§es. 

1 Pint of Almonds. 
1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Take about a pint of almonds, shell 
them, and then blanch or scald them 
in boiling water till the skin comes 
off easily. Dry well, and place in a 
flat tin dish; add about an ounce of 
butter, and set the plate in a mod- 
erate oven until the almonds are a 
golden brown. Then take them out 
of the oven, add a heaping table- 
spoonful of salt, stir them round and 
round, or according to the way in 
which the almonds pick up the salt, 
dredging quickly with the salt, and 
turn them into a dish to cool. Pick 
out the almonds, and throw aside the 



extra salt; When cool. plao<? In a 
box for use, covering tightly. The 
salt may Tae added, when the almonds 
are first put in the oven. Be careful 
to turn frequently while they are in 
the oven, so that they may be equally 
browned on all sides. Almonds pre- 
pared after this manner are deli- 
cious. 

Another way to prepare Salted Al- 
monds is to take the whole blanched 
almonds and put them on. a baking 
sheet, and roast in a hot oven to a 
slight brown. Then make a solution 
of Gum Arabic and water and wet 
the almonds with it. Dust over them 
very finely powdered and sifted table 
salt, and stir well but gently till 
dry. 

Salted Peanuts. 

Des Pistaches Sal6es. 

1 Pint of Whole Peanuts. 
1 Tablesooontul of Salt. 

Take blanched- whole peanuts, and 
proceed in exactly the same manner 
as in the last recipe given for Salted 
Almonds. 



CHAPTER XLVII. 

CRSOLE} BREADS. 

Des Pains a, la CrSole^ 



Perhaps no branch of Creole cook- 
ery so interests visitors to New Or- 
leans as our Creole Breads. While 
in breakfast relishes, such as batter 
cakes, flannel cakes, waflles. buck- 
wheat cakes, biscuit, etc.. we have 
much in common with other sections, 
there is a distinctiveness about our 
"Brioches," "Babas," "Galas," "Saca- 
mites," "Sweet Potato Bread," French 
Loaves, French Rolls, etc., which are 
peculiar to ourselves alone. Our 
"Baker's Bread." or "Pain de Bou- 
langer," of itself stands unique among 
the breads of the United States, and 
has been the sub.lect of more than 
one interesting newspaper and maga- 
zine article. It has this peculiarity, 
that one never tires if it, as they do 
of other breads, and the reason for 
this is that it is of exquisite light- 
ness, white and tender, of an even 
porous character, with a thin, crisp 
crust, and, best of all, is just such a. 
bread as is required in our climate. 
Made into toasts, it is the most de- 
lightful of all breads, no home-made 
light bread or bakers' bread in any 
other part of the United Sta.tes stand- 
ing comparison with it. Bakers' 
Bread is the daily offering, morning. 



noon an4 night, on every New Orleans 
table. 

Our "Calas" are famous, and have 
been treated on under the chapter on 
Louisiana Rice, while our "Brioches" 
are not only the Joy of the natives, 
but the delight of visitors from all 
parts of the country. A cup of CafS 
Noir in the French Market and a 
Brioche is one of the standing treats 
to which every visitor to New Orleans 
is invited. 

HoTv to Make and Bake Bread. 

Bread, to be perfect, should be light 
and sweet, with a _ rich, nutty flavor 
of the wheat. To "obtain this result, 
only the best flour and the best dough 
must be used. While the bread is 
rising the temperature of the oven 
should be at about 75 degrees Fahr- 
enheit, and the heat of the oven in 
baking should be about 360 degrees, 
or hot enough to raise the inside of 
the bread to about 220 degrees. This 
is necessary to cook the starch, ex- 
pand the carbonic gas, steam and air, 
and also to drive off the alcohol which 
is used in the yeast.' The bakers In 
New Orleans have a way of testing 
the temperature of the oven by put- 
ting a piece of white paper in It. If 



357 



it turns dark in five minutes the oven 
is 01; the right temperature. If it 
burns, the oven is too hot, apd must 
be cooled betore putting the bread 
in, and if the paper is only a light 
brown at the end of five minutes, ihe 
oven must be made hotter. Again, 
they sprinkle flour and if it browns 
or smokes before you can count ten, 
thte oven is too hot; if it browns at 
ten, the oven is of the right tempe- 
rature. 

Brick ovens are used, and the 
loaves of bread are shoved into the 
oven generally on baking boards. 

hoUs are always baked ttrst; then 
the bread, and afterwards the pies 
and cakes. It is best to have the 
oven heated in time and close for one 
hour at least before beginning to 
bake. 

Bread should be in the oven about 
ten minutes before it begins to brown. 
When done, remove carefully from 
the pan, and tip it against a bread 
board. Just as they do in New Orleans 
bakeries. This allows the air to cir- 
culate freely around it. Never cover 
bread that has been freshly baked, 
a you wish it to be fresh and sweet 
and crisp. When cool, place in a 
clean bread box. without using a 
"bread bag," as is so common among 
many families. This bag absorbs the 
moisture from the bread, and causes 
it to sour quickly. 

The New Orleans bakers always use 
Compressed Yeast for leavening bread, 
as it does not necessitate makins a 
ferment or setting sponge before 
mixing the dough. 

Bakers' Bread. 

Pain de Boulanger. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

IVi Ounces of Salt. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

Floor Sufficient to Make a Smooth Dough; 

Allow one ounce of Compressed 
Yeast to one quart of lukewarm wa- 
ter, and mix well in a wooden bread 
trough. Then add flour enough to 
make a nice smooth dough of medium 
degree, not too stiff, nor yet too soft. 
Work it well, and then let it stand 
for about five hours in a warm place 
so as to rise well. When it drops, 
or begins to fall (you can tell this 
by watching the sides of the dough), 
add the same amount of wat3r that 
was used in making the dough, put- 
ting two teaspoonfuls of salt into the 
water before adding it. Work this 
well, and then throw down on the ta- 
ble, cut and mold the doueh into 
loaves of whatever length is desired, 
and take a smooth stick and press 
lightly down across the loaf about 
two inches from the edge. The bak- 
•ers put the loaves into the oven 
without setting in a pan. Watch care- 
fully, and see that the oven is of the 



temperature mentioned above. " By 
following these directions, you will 
have nice, fresh, sweet Npw Orleans 
Bakers' Bread. 

The above quantity will make about 
five loaves. 

French Bread. 

Pain Francais. 

1 Ounce of Yeast. 
1^ Ounces of Salt. 

2 Quarts of Water. 
1% Ounces of Sugar. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth Dough, 

Dissolve the yeast, salt and sugar 
into the water and mix in flour suf- 
ficient to make a nice smooth dough 
of medium degree, not too stiff, nor 
yet too soft. Work until it no longer 
adheres to the hand or bowl, and 
then cover with a cloth and set to 
rinse until it has doubled its size. 
This will be in about four or five- 
hours. When it begins to sink, work 
it well again and set to rise anew. 
When well risen divide the dough 
into equal pieces, and mold into 
round ball shapes, or into long loaves 
of about two inches in thickness. 
Lay the loaves on a board previously 
sprinkled with flour and at sufficient 
distance apart not to touch one anoth- 
er, arid set to rise again. Let them 
rise to nearly double the previous 
size. Have the oven heated, transfer 
the loaves into it, wash over with 
eggs mixed with water, make diag- 
onal cuts half way across on each 
loaf, half way through, and close the 
oven. When baked, brush off the' 
flour, wipe the tops with a damp cloth 
and the bread is ready to serve. 

Fan Bread. 

Pain de Plaque. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 
i/i Pound of Lard. 
2 Quarts of Water. 
1% Ounces of Salt. 

Flour Sufficient to Hake, a Smooth Dough, 
V,t, Ounces of Sugar, If Desired. 
This is a nice, large-loafed bread, 
with a dainty crust, that ,is some- 
what glutinous, and, as the name in- 
dicates, is baked in a pan by our 
bakers. It is remarkable for the 
daintiness of grain of the bread after 
baking. Make the same dough as 
for Bakers' Bread, only yvork the 
loaves twice over; then put them in 
the oven and dredge lightly with 
flcur. As they begin to rise make a 
light paste of flour and water or 
egg and water and spread vety light- 
ly over them. This is brushed lightly 
with lard, to keep from getting too 
crusty. Bake in a rather hotter oven 
than the other bread. 



353' 



French Loaves. 

Des Petits Pains Francais. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1% Ounces of Salt. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smootli Dough. 

These are the dainty little loaves 
BO generally used in our New Orleans 
restaurants and hotels. Make the 
dough as in Bakers' Bread, and after 
it has risen and begins to drop, scale 
the dough off, and cut and mold them 
into little loaves of about the length 
of a man's hand. Mold them round 
and set them to rise again. When 
they are very light, which will be in 
a few minutes, take them up and 
work them well separately, and then 
mold them again and gently press in 
the center with a smooth stick. Lay 
them in a box with a stiff cloth over 
them, and let them lie for a few min- 
utes. Take off the cloth and set 
them in the oven to brown nicely. 
Set to cool as above indicated. 

Twist Loaves, 

Pain Tress6. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

2 Quarts of aWter. 

I'A Ounces of Salt. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth Dough. 

Make the identical dough as in 
"Bakers' Bread." After the first ris- 
ing and throwing in of water and 
w^orking the bread, cut the dough, 
and divide each Dortion into three 
pieces of dough. Dust this dough 
well with parched flour and roll the 
pieces into lengths of about two feet, 
or a foot and a half, and plait them. 
Then lay them in a long box or on 
a board, and cover with a stiff cloth, 
as in French Loaves, and let them lie 
till they begin to rise. Place in the 
oven and bake to a nice brown. 

Rye Bread, 

Pain de Seigle. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

2 Quarts of aWter. 

IMi Ounces of Salt. 

Eye and Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth 

Dough. 

A Few Kummel Seed. 

Make the dough a little stiffer than 
for White Bread, allowing one-half 
of wheat flour and one-halt rye. Al- 
low the same amount of yeast, and 
add a few Kummel seeds and a little 
more salt than for White Bread. Set 
to rise. After one rising, work again 
as in Bakers' Bread, divide it into 
loaves, and set it to rise again. 
When about twice its original size, 
bake in a moderate oven. 



Home-Made Creole Light Bread. 

Pain de Manage a, la Crfiole. 

2 Quarts of Flour. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

1^ Pints of Milk or Water. 

Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

Sift the flour. Then put Into a 
wooden bread trough or a pan, and 
make a hole in the center of the flour. 
Add warm water or milk sufficient to 
make a nice, smooth, rather stiff 
batter. Mix the yeast with a little 
tepid water till well-dissolved, and 
add'. Then set to rise over night in 
a warm place. In the morning take 
up and again make a hole in the cen- 
ter of the dough, and add half a ta- 
blespoonful of melted lard or butter, 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
salt, and one and one-half pints of 
warm milk or water. Then add the 
flour and knead well about ten times. 
When it forms a smooth dough, form 
into a cake, and set to rise again. 
When risen to about tw^lce its size, 
take it up and knead again about 
five times, that is, work one piece of 
dough over the other about five times, 
and set to rise again. Always, when 
setting to rise, sprinkle the bottom 
of the pan with a little flour. After 
an hour, take up the bread and knead 
for about ten minutes, till you have 
a nice dough, that can be worked 
without sprinkling the biscuit board 
with flour. Then form the dough 
into two loaves. Place them side by 
side in the baking pan, and bake in 
a moderate oven for about three- 
quarters of an hour. Serve hot or 
cold. ' 

Milk Bread, 

Pain au Lalt. 

2 Quarts of Flour. 
% Teacnpful of Yeast or % Cake of Com- 
pressed Yeast. 

1 Pint of Fresh Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

Scald the milk, and then turn it 
into the bread trough or pan. Add 
immediately the butter and the salt. 
When it becomes tepid add the yeast 
and about three-quarters of a pint 
or half a pint of flour, using always 
good judgment In adding sufficient, 
more or less, to make a thick batter. 
Then beat thoroughly till air bubbles 
accumulate all over the surface of 
the batter. Then cover and set in a 
warm place over night. Tery early 
in the morning work in the rest of 
the flour, and take it out of the pan 
and put on a board and knead quickly 
and lightly until the dough is per- 
fectly smooth and does not cling to 
the hands or the board. Then put 
it back in the trough or pan and 
coyer with a cloth, and set to rise 
again in a warm place. When It 



359 



has Increased to twice Its bulk, turn 
again upon the board, and then di- 
vide the dough into two parts. Mold 
these lightly and gently into small 
loaves, and stand away to rise for 
about half an hour. Then set in the 
oven, which should be moderately 
quick, and bake for three-quarters of 
an hour. 

The famous Vienna Bread, now so 
much sought after, is nothing else, 
than this ancient Milk Bread, or Cre- 
ole "Pain au Lait," that has been used 
for generations in Creole homes. 

Bnttennilk Bread. 

Pain au Babeurre. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1 Pint of Buttermilk. 

1 Dessertspoonful of Soda. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

H Pouna of Powdered Sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of Salt. 

Warm the milk, add the sugar, but- 
ter and soda, the latter dissolved in 
a little warm water. Then add the 
iiour and set to rise. When well 
risen knead lightly, place in a baking 
pan, let it rise again for half an 
hour, and bake in a moderate oven. 
This makes an excellent, nutritious 
and very white bread, and is much 
used by the Creoles in making French 
Toasts. 

Buttermilk Kolls are made by sim- 
ply pinching off the above dough into 
pieces about the size of a walnut or 
egg, shaping into little balls, and 
proceeding as above. 



Rice Bread. 

Pain de RIz. 

1 Cup of Cold Boiled Rice. 

2 Cups of White Indian Meal. 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

2 Heaping Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

' 114 Pints of Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the 
eggs together until very light, and 
then pour in the milk, mixing grad- 
ually. Add the well-prepared meal, 
into which you will have mixed the 
salt and Baking Powder. Beat well. 
Then add the melted butter and the 
rice, which you will have pressed 
through a sieve. Mix all thorough- 
ly, and beat till very light. Then 
grease the bottom of a shallow pan 
and turn the mixture in and bake 
half an hour in a hot oven. Serve 
hot, buttering the slices freely. This 
Is a delicious breakfast bread, and, 
as in any of the above recipes, cold 
rice left over may be utilized In Its 
making. 



Sweet Potato Bread. 

Pain de Patates. 

1 Quart of Masted Sweet Potatoes. 

1>^ Pints of Flour. 

1 Pint of Milk or Warm Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Vi Teacup of Fresh Yeast, or Half a Cake 

of Compressed Yeast. 

This is a delicious Creole Bread. 
The potatoes must be baked, peeled 
and mashed. Put the milk, or water, 
and the yeast and salt into a bowl 
or pan; add the butter, which must 
be melted. Beat thoroughly, and set 
over night in a warm place. In the 
morning add the potatoes, mashed 
and pressed through a sieve, and 
gradually add , the flour, which must 
be sifted three times. Beat to a light 
sponge; then cover, and set to rise 
in a warm place till it doubles its 
size. Then turn out on a bread board 
and mold into loaves; put in a slight- 
ly greased pan and let rise till light. 
Then bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. 

ROLLS. 

Bourrelet. 

1 Quart of Milk. 
1 Quart of Water. 
54 Ounce of Yeast. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
V4. Pound of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sugar (if desired.) 

Dissolve the sugar (if desired), the, 
yeast and salt, with the milk and the 
water. Then add flour suflicient to 
make a nice dough of medium firm- 
ness. Add the lard, and work the 
dough until smooth. Then form into 
a round mass and set to rise. When 
the dough has doubled it size, work 
anew and mold into small round balls 
and set into greased baking pans at 
a little distance apart from one anoth- 
er. Set to rise again and when they 
have doubled their size bake in a 
brisk oven. 

Frencli Rolls. 

Bourrelets a, la Francaise. 

VA Pints of Fresh Milk. 
2 Quarts of White Flour. 2 Eggs. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

- Teaspoonful of Salt. 
1 Teaspoonful of Sugar (which may be omit- 
ted, according to taste). 
% Cake of Compressed Xeast, Dissolved in 
Warm Water, 

Boil the milk, take off the stove, 
and add the butter, sugar and salt. 
Then add the well-beaten eggs. Stir 
in about one and a half pounds of 
flour, more or less, to make a stiff 
batter, and beat till air bubbles ac- 
cumulate all over the surface. Then 
cover with a close cloth and set to 
rise oven night in a warm place. Then 
take up the dough and knead lightly 



360 



with the remaining flour to make a 
nice, soft dough, and shape with your 
hands into nice, small rolls or balls. 
Set them together in the baking pan, 
which you will have lightly sprinkled 
with flour. Then set to rise for an 
hour longer. Set in the oven, and 
bake about a half hour. These rolls 
are delicious for breakfast, or for 
luncheon or supper. They may be 
set to rise in the early morning, and 
served hot at luncheon. 

Tea Rolls. 

Bourrelets pour le Thfi. 

1 Quart ot Flour. 

, 1 Piut of MUt. 

yii Cake of Oompressed Yeast. 

1 Teassoontul ot Salt. 

1 Gill of Warm Water. 

Sift the flour and salt together. 
Scald the milk, and when tesid add 
the yeast, dissolved in a little warm 
water, to one-half of the milk. Add 
one-half of the flour, and make a thin 
batter, stirring very smooth. Set it 
to rise in a warm place, and at the 
end of three hours make it into a 
dough with the remainder of the 
milk and flour, and knead well till 
the dough no longer, adheres to the 
board or to your hands. Then shape 
it with your hands into staiall balls, 
set to rise for a half hour longer, or 
an hour, and bake in a moderate oven 
for a half hour. 

RUSKS. 

EchaudSs Sees. 

1 Pint of Warm MilU. 

"A Cup of Butter. 

1 Cua of Sugar. 2 Esgs. 

1 Teassoonful of ^alt. 

1 1 Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Flour Snffioieut to Hake a Iiatter. 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm 
milk, and then add flour sufficient to 
make a thin batter. Set to rise over 
night. In the morning beat the su- 
gar and the butter to a cream, and 
add the eggs, well beaten. Add these 
to the batter, beat well, add the salt, 
and sufficient flour to make a soft 
dough. Then mold the dough into 
balls with your hands, or into small 
loaves. Set to rise until they have 
reached about twice their bulk. Then 
place in the oven and bake for thirty 
minutes. If sweet rusks are not de- 
sired, omit the sugar. 

TOAST. 

Pain Roti. 

6 Slices ot Bread. 
Butter to Taste. 
Slice the bread, neither too thick 
nor too thin. Cut off the rough 
edges of the crust. Hold on a fork 
before burning coals till nicely 
toasted on one side. Then turn on 
the other, and proceed as before. If 
dry toast is desired, the bread is not 



buttered. If buttered toast, butter 
nicely, set in the oven a second and 
send to the table hot. 

Some cooks toast, bread by Simply 
setting the slices in the oven and 
letting them brown on either side. 
But there is no comparison in light- 
ness to the toast prepared in the 
above old-fashioned way. 

Cream or Milk Toast, 

Rotis a la CrSme ou au Lalt. 

6 Slices of Bread. 

1 Pint of 'Hot Cream or Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Toast the bread nicely, and butter 
well on both sides. Lay in a disjh, 
and pour over hot milk. Serve hot. 

Or, heat one pint of Cream, add one 
large tablespoonful of butter, and 
pour over the hot toast. Slightly 
stale bread may be utilized in this 
way. 

Soda crackers may be toasted and 
served in the same ivay. This is a 
great supper dish among the Creole 
plantation homes of Louisiana. 

liOst Bread or Egg Toast. 

Pain Perdu. 

6 Eegs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls ot Oiange Flower Water. 

% Cud of Sugar. 

Slices of Stale Bread. 

The Finely-Grated Zest of a Lemon. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Brandy (if desired). 

The Creoles utilize left-over stale 
bread in that delightful breakfast 
relish known as "Pain Perdu." Break 
the eggs into a bowl, beat them till 
very light, add the Orange Flower 
Water and the Brandy, if desire.d, and 
then add the sugar, and beat thor- 
oughly. Add the grated zest of a 
lemon, mix well, and then cut the 
bread into slices or round pieces, 
taking off the crust, or still again in- 
to diamond shapes, and soak them 
well for a half hour in the mixture. 
Have ready a frying pan of boiling 
lard (see General Directions for Fry- - 
ing), lay in the bread, and fry to a 
golden brown. Lift the slices out 
with a skimmer, and drain on brown 
paper in the mouth of the oven. Then 
place on a hot dish, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, as you would frit- 
ters, add a little grated nutmeg, If 
desired, and serve hot. 

Spanish Toast. 

Rotis a. I'Espagnole. 

1 Egj. 1 Cup of Milk. 

1 Gill of Brandy or Rum (if desired). 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered Sugar. 

% Ounce Each of Powdered Nutmeg and 

Cinnamon. 

6 Slices of Stale Bread. 

Lard tor Prjlng. 

Beat the egg and sugar well, and 
add the milk and the rum or brandy. 



361 



if desired. Have ready the slices of 
stale bread, cut in diamond sliapes 
or sauare, and let them soalc for 
about a half hour in the mixture. 
Then lay into a pan of boiling lard, 
and fry to a golden brown. Skim 
out and drain on brown paper in the 
mouth of the oven, and place on a 
hot dish. Sprinkle with powdered su- 
gar and grated cinnamon and nutmeg, 
and serve with milk or cream. 

BRiaCHElS. 

2 Pounds o£ tlie Best Flour. 

% Ounce of Yeast. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

% Ounce of Salt. 

1 Pound of tie Best Butter. 

12 or 8 Eass. 

Under the name of "Brioche" is 
known the dainty "Koll Cake Bread' 
that is sold by all New Orleans bak- 
ers; that is brought to your door in 
the early morning by the "Bread 
Man," and which forms such a de- 
lightful accompaniment to the morn- 
ing cup of Cafgi Noir, whether in the 
exclusive homes • of the old French 
Quarter, or at the world-famed coffea 
stands in the French Market. 

To make "Brioches." take a pound 
and a half of the best quality of 
flour, and put it in a wooden bread 
trough. Make a hole in the center 
of the flour, and put in a half ounce 
of yeast, dissolved in a little warm 
water. Take milk or tepid water 
tp make the dough, using milk if you 
want it to be very rich and delicate, 
^nd water if you have not the milk. 
Knead and mix the flour with one 
han<3. while adding the milk or wa- 
ter with the other. Make a dough 
th9.t is neither too stiff nor too soft, 
an4 when perfectly smooth set the 
dough to rise in a moderately warm 
Place, covering with a cloth. Re- 
member that if you use milk to make 
tlje dough, the milk must be scalded, 
that is, it must be heated to the boil- 
ing point and then allowed to grow 
tepid. Let the dough rise for five or 
six houre, and when increased to 
twice its bulk, take it and add the 
reserved half pound of flour, into 
which you will have sifted the salt. 
Add six eggs, beaten very light, with 
the sugar and butter, and mix all 
well together, kneading lightly with 
your hands, and adding more eggs 
If the dough is a little stiff. Then 
knead the dough by turning it over 
on itself three times, and set to rise 
again for an hour or three-quarters 
of an hour. Cover with a cloth. At 
the end of this time take It up and 
work again lightly, and then form 
into "Brioches," that is. work the 
dough gently with your hands, and 
the^ break it into pieces about the 
size of an egg. Pat these gently, 
fprnjlng them into neat rolls, a little 
flattened, and then make one roll 



about twice the size of the others. 
This roll will form the head of the 
Brioche. Have ready a baking pan 
with a buttered sheet of paper in it, 
and set the central roll in the mid- 
dle. Arrange around the other rolls, 
having at least six or eight, to form 
a perfect-looking cake. Cover the 
pan with a clean, stiff cloth, and set 
the cake to rise for an hour longer. 
When well risen, set in an oven a 
few degrees cooler than that used 
for baking Bread. If the rolls are 
large, let them bake an hour and a 
half; if medium, one hour, and if 
very small, a half hour. Some bakers 
and cooks glace the Brioche lightly 
with a beaten egg, which is spread 
lightly over the top, before placing in 
the oven. This gives the rich, glossy 
surface so often seen on the Brioche 
Again, if you cannot afford butter, 
use lard, or half butter and lard, 
but the Brioche made with butter and 
milk is the most delicate and refined, 
and the true Creole Brioche, peculiar 
to New Orleans. After the Brioches 
are baked, set them to cool, if you 
do not wish to eat them hot. When 
serving, whether hot or cold, sprinkle 
lightly with powdered white sugar. 

BABA. 

3 Pounds of , the Best Flour. 

ya Ounce of Yeast. 

i Cup of Suear. 

% Ounce of Salt. 

1 Pound of the Best Butter. 

I 12 or 14 Eggs. \ 

% Pound of Seeded Ealsins. 

14 Pound of Currants. 

14 Glass of Sweetened Water. 

A Tinge of Saffron. 

The dough for the "Baba" is ex- 
actly the same as that for the Bri- 
oche. Proceed in exactly the same 
manner, only at the moment of add- 
ing the reserved flour to the leavened 
add a half pound of raisins seeded, 
and a half pound of currants, washed, 
picked and dried. Add also a half 
glass of sweetened, tepid water, in 
which you will have put a little saf- 
fron. Be careful to keep this dough 
much softer than that for the Bri- 
oche, adding more eggs, if necessary, 
to insure the proper degree of con- 
sistency. The dough must rise at 
least six or seven hours. When it 
has increased to twice its volume, af- 
ter the third rising, cook as you 
would the Brioche, in an oven a few 
degrees cooler than that used in 
baking Bread. The "Baba" is made 
into a round cake, just like a Pound 
Cake or Sponge Cake, and" is formed 
into this round shape with the hands. 
After baking let cool and sprinkle 
with powdered white sugar. This is 
the cake that the Creole bakers of 
New Orleans send as a "Christmas" 
or "New Year's Offering" to their 
customers. 



362 



The German bakers of New Orleans 
took up the custom, and make the 
"Baba" by adding to the raisins and 
currants a little Aniseed, instead of 
the .Saffron. 

BULI/FROGS. 

Grenouilles. 

% Pound fo the Best Flour. 

1^ Ounce of Yeast. 

Vi Cup of Sugar. % Ounce of Salt. 

1 Pound of the Best Butter, 

12 or S Eggs. 

Under this amusing name are sold 
the delicious small rolls, so dainty 
and fine, and which are served in all' 
our, Creole homes and restaurants. 
The rolls are joined together lightly 
in long rows of about eight inches 
in length and three in width. They 
are brought to the doors by the 
bakers every morning in this old 
French city: The dough- for "Bull- 
frogs" is just the same as that for 
the Brioche, only a half pound of 
flour is used, instead of a pound, aJid 
a cup of butter. Bake in the same 
manner. They are delightful accom- 
paniments to the most recherch§ 
breakfast. 

che:e}SE2 cakes. 

Talmouses. 
14 Pound of Flour. 

1 Glass of "Water. 
A Pinch of Salt. 

2 TahlesDOonfuls of Flour. 

6 Eg2B. 2 Cream Cieeses. 

A Brioche or Plain Paste (see Recipe Plain 

Paste.X 

Put the butter in a saucepan, an1 
add the water and the salt. Let' all 
come to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Then take from the fire and add the 
eggs, beaten well, and the cream 
cheese. Mix all well. Then take 
small molds or tins and line with the 
Plain Paste, or Brioche Paste, rolled 
very thin. Place within the prepa- 
ration of cream cheese in quantity 
equal to an egg in size. Then cover 
the cakes with a piece of rolled 
dough, and bake in a slow oven. 
These are delicious breakfast cakes, 
and much in vogue in ancient Cre- 
ole homes. 

PEILIiARO. 

2 Pounds of Flour. 

1 Fojind of Butter, or Half Butter and Lar-J 

12 Ebks. 1^ Ounce of .Yeast. 

1 Gill of Brandy. 

1 Tablespoohful of Orange Flower Water. 

Milk or Tepid Water to Form a Dough. 

1 Pound of Figs or Stoned Cherries. 

Make the same dough as for the 
Brioche. At the moment of adding 
the leavened flour and the reserved 
flour, add the stoned cherries or 
peeled figs, the latter cut in halves. 
Then proceed as for "Brioches," and 
at the last kneading add the orange 
flower water and the brandy. Bake 
as you would the "Brioche." 



AVIXB CAKE. 

Savarin. 

2 Pounds of the Beat Flour. 

% Ounce of Yeast. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

Vi Ounco of Salt. 

1 Poimd of the Best, Butter. 

12 or 8 £^gs. 

- Make the same dough as for the 
"Brioche,", and at the last kneading 
place it in a cake pan lined with a 
buttered paper. Set it to rise for an 
hour longer. Then place it in the 
oven, and brush over lightly with a 
beaten egg. Let it bake for about 
an hour and a half, according to the 
size, and then take from the oven 
and. soak in a syrup made of one 
pound of sugar and a pint of water, 
and boiled to a syrup, and into which 
you will add a wineglass of brandy 
or Jamaica rum. 

These delicious cakes may be 
formed into small cakfs, like the 
"Brioche," only they must not be 
joined together around a central 
cake. But the "Sav.afin" is nearly 
always baked in small cake tins. 

BISCUIT. 

Des Biscuits. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Lard. , 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Yeast Powder. 
1 Pint of Water or Sweet Ullk. 

Sift the flour well, and add the salt 
and yeast powder, rubbing in thor- 
oughly with your hands. Then rub 
in the lard, rubbing the flour be- • 
tween your hands till every ...portion 
is permeated by the lard, and there 
are no lumps. Gradually add water 
or milk, using about a pint, more or 
less, mixing in with your hands. 
Then knead the dough until smooth 
and elastic. Form into molds, and 
lay on the biscuit board, and roll out 
till about a quarter of an inch in 
thickness. Cut into round cakes 
with the biscuit cutter. Stick lightly 
with a fork here and there over the 
surface, and bake in a quick oven for 
about five or six minutes. By adding 
four or five eggs, and, instead of the 
lard, one tablespoonful of butter, to 
the above, you will have egg biscuit. 

Benten Biscuit. 

Biscuit Battu. 

This is a great Southern biscuit, 
and is much affected by the ancient 
Creoles. Take 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1 Teasiioonful of Salt. 

1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Lard. 

1 Pint of Milk or Water, or Halt and Halt. 

Sift the flour and add" the salt, 
mixing thoroughly. Then add the 
lard, and blend by rubbing through 
the hands till not a lump remains 



363 



In the flour. Now add gradually the 
water or milk, or the milk and water 
combined, using half and half of 
each, and knead all the whole till 
the dough, which must not be too 
soft, but rather stiff, is formed. Then 
lay the dough on a biscuit board on a 
block, and beat, for a half hour with 
a rolling pin. Knead lightly, and 
beat again for a full t-en minutes, 
till from every portion of the surface 
and sides the air bubbles or "blis- 
ters" form. Then roll out and cut 
Into round biscuits with the cutter, 
or sQuare ones with a knife, and 
stick here and there with a fork. 
Bake in a moderate oven for about 
ten or fifteen minutes, till a delicate 
brown above and below. . 

These biscuits are delicious and 
are much liketj by delicate people. 
The biscuit should be white as snow 
within. The sides should be slightly 
cracked. It was the pride of the an- 
cient Creole cooks as to how long 
they could beat these biscuits with- 
out growing tired. The steady "beat- 
beat" would gently echo through the 
olden manors from the kitchen in 
the rear, and every one knew what 
to expect when Tante Zizi came in 
smiling . with her beautiful biscuit, 
that had risen fresh, sweet and light 
without yeast powder or soda. 
Stewed Blscnlts. 
Biscuits Sautes. 

6 Left-Over Biscuits. 
% Pound of Butter. 
1% Pints of Milk. 

Left-over biscuits may be thus 
utilized. Take a porcelain-lined 
saucepan, cut the biscuit in halves, 
lay in the bottom of the saucepan, 
place a layer of butter over this, and 
then a layer of biscuit, and so on 
till all are used up. Pour milk over 
the whole, let it come to a boil, and 
serve hot. 

Soda and Milk Biscuit. 

Biscuit au Lait et a la Soude. 

1 Quart o£ Flour. 

1 Hearing Teaspoonful of Lard. 

2 Cups of Sour Milk. 

% Teaspoonful of Soda. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Sift the flour and add the salt and 
lard, rubbing them in thoroughly 
with your hands, as above indicated. 
Then dissolve the soda In a little 
warm water and add to the milk, 
and work rapidly and lightly. Then 
lay on a biscuit board or a block of 
wood, and beat till the surface of 
the dough is full of air bubbles, or 
"blisters," as the old Creole cooks 
call them. Roll the dough out to 
about a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness, out into round biscuits with a 
biscuit cutter, or square ones with a 
knife. Stick here and there over 
the surface with a. fork, and bake 



for about six minutes in a quick 
oven. If too much is used, it not 
only imparts a bitter taste, but gives 
the flour an ugly yellowish green 
color, that is neither tempting nor 
inviting. 

The Graham Biscuit is made by 
using three cups of Graham flour, 
one cup of white flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of Baking Powder,, one heaping 
tablespoonful of sugar or molasses, 
and two cups of lukewarm water, 
mixing the batter until it reaches 
the consistency of oatmeal porridge, 
and then pouring Into buttered tins. 
Let it rise till light, and bake in a 
moderate oven. Milk may be used 
instead of water, if you have It. 

Sweet Potato Biscuit. 

Biscuits de Patates Douces. 

G Potatoes. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter or Lard. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

H Cake ot Compressed Teast. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespnontul of White Snsnr. 

Sufficient Flour to Make a Batter. 

Boil the potatoes, pare and mash 
them very fine through a sieve. Scald 
the milk and add the salt and sug-ar. 
Then beat till perfectly smooth. Add 
these to the potatoes and mix well. 
Then add about half a cup of flour, 
well-sifted several times, so that It 
will be very light. When the mix- 
ture grows tepid, add the yeast, 
which you will have dissolved in 
warm water, and beat well till you 
■have a good batter. Then cover the 
mixture with a thick cloth, and put 
to rise in a warm place. After three 
or four hours, when it is, well-risen, 
add 'flo'ur sufficient to make a nice, 
soft dough. Knead very lightly and 
quickly for about ten or fifteen min- 
utes. At the end of this time take 
up and knead, lightly several times, 
and roll the dough out. Cut into 
little biscuits, place them in a 
slightly-buttered or greased pan, 
about, two inches apart, let them 
stand for half an hour in a warm 
place and then bake in a quick oven 
for twenty minutes. 

Tea Biscuits. 
Biscuits de Th§. 

1 Ouart "f Flonr. 
• % Pint of Milk. 3 Esgs. 
2 Ounces ot Butter or Lnnl. 

1 Teaspoonful of Suirar. 
1/1 Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Scald the milk and add the butter. 
Set to cool, and then add the salt an 1 
the sugar and yeast. Add one-half 
of the flour. Mix well, and then beat 
rapidly for about five or ten minutes. 
Cover up the pan with a cloth, and 
set in a warm place for about two 
hours. Then take up, add the well- 
beaten eggs and the remainder of 
the flour. Make a soft dough, and 



364 



knead lightly but constantly for 
about twenty minutes. If the dough 
is then elastic, form into loaves and 
set to rise in a warm place. When it 
has increased to twice its bulk, which 
will be in about two hours, pinch off 
into small pieces about half the size 
of a hen's egg, and mold into a small 
ball. Place all in a pan about two 
inches apart, and cover again for 
half an hour. Then bake in a mod- 
erate oven for about a quarter of an 
hour. They must be baked to a nice 
brown. 

Soda Crackers. 

Biscuits de Soda. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Cues of Sweet Milk or Water. 

a Teaspoonful of Soda. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Sift the flour several times and add 
the salt. Mix well. Then rub in the 
butter thoroughly. Add the soda, 
which you will have dissolved in a 
little boiling water, and the milk, 
and mix all well together. Then 
knead well and put upon the biscuit 
board and beat with a rolling pin 
for upwards of half an hour, fre- 
quently rolling the dough over, and 
beating hard until the air bubbles 
cover every part, abovp and below. 
Then roll out into a nice square 
even sheet of dough, about one-eighth 
of an inch in thickness, and cut into 
nice square cakes. Stick through and 
through with a fork here and there 
over the surface in even rows, and 
bake them in a moderate oven till 
they are hard and crisp, but not 
brown. Then hang in a muslin bag 
for about two days to thoroughly 
dry, and they are ready to be served. 

WAFERS. 

Gaufres. 

1 Pint of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of BnttPr. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

% Pint of Sweet Mllli. 

Sift the flour very, very fine, and 
then add the salt, and mix well. Add 
the milk and make into a nice, rather 
stiff dough. Place on a biscuit board 
and beat for fully a half hour, and 
then turn the dough over and beat 
for fifteen minutes more, the light- 
ness depending upon the beating. 
Roll them out into cakes that are 
almost transparent in thinness, but 
which can also be handled without 
losing their shape. Lay them gently 
in the pan, or better still, roll them 
out on a baking sheet which has been 
sprinkled with flour; then they will 
not require handling. Bake quickly 
in a hot oven. 



SHORT CAKE. 

Gateau de Pate au Beurre. 

1 Pound of Flour. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter or 2 of Lard. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

A Pinch of Soda, or ^ Teaspoonful of Yeast 

Powder. 

Sift the flour and yeast powder to- 
gether, it you desire it instead of 
soda. Otherwise sift the flour, add 
the salt, and mix the lard or butter 
thoroughly together, rubbing between 
your hands till there is not a lump 
left. Then add sufBoient tepid water 
to make a nice, rather stiff dough. 
Roll out into a thin sheet, about- half 
an inch thick, and criss-cross with 
a knife lightly in diamond shapes. 
Set in the oven and bake for about 
flfteen minutes to a light brown. This 
is brought to the table split open and 
buttered, and eaten while hot. 

The short cake for fruits is made 
in exactly the same manner, only a 
quarter of a pound of butter is used, 
and two eggs, well beaten, and in- 
stead of water sour milk or butter- 
milk is used to mix, if you use soda, 
and sweet milk if you use yeast pow- 
der. This dough is divided in two, 
one for the upper, and the other for 
the lower crust, and is sprinkled 
thickly between with such fruits as 
strawberries, raspberries, etc. The 
dough should be soft and crisp. 

CORN BREAD. 

Pain de Mais. 

It has been said, and justly, that 
the only people who know how to 
make corn bread are the Southern 
people, and that the further you go 
south of Mason and Dixon's line, 
the better the corn bread, corn cakes, 
corn mulfins, that will be offered you. 
Throughout Louisiana the dainty 
"Egg Breads," Corn Cakes, Muflins, 
"Crackling Bread," etc., are the gra- 
cious offerings that typical Creole 
planters place before the guests who 
have been invited to partake of 
morning hospitality. As in these an- 
cient Southern manors, so also is 
the olden Creole homes of New Or- 
leans. The Creole planters of the an- 
cient regime had their plantation 
and city homes, and life gravitated 
between the one and the other with 
pleasing and inflnite variety. And so 
the cookery of the Creole New Or- 
leans is the cookery of Creole Louisi- 
ana, and in this^cookery Corn Bread 
occupies, with "Potato," "Hominy," 
"Rice," and "Wheat Breads," Its 
unique and interesting place. 

It may be added here that the Cre- 
oles, like all true Southerners, never 
use the yellow corn meal for mak- 
ing bread, but always the whitest 
and best meal. In the South the yel- 
low meal is only used to feed chick- 
ens and cattle. 



365 



Plain Corn Bread. 

Pain de Ma'i's. 

1 Quart ot the Finest Indian Meal. 

1 Teaspoontul of Salt. 

A Heaping Tablespoonfui of Lard or Butter. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Pour just enough boiling water 
over tlie meal to scald it through and 
through, without making a dough or 
batter. Stir it well, and let it grow 
tepid. It will then be quite dry. Add 
a melted teaspoonful of lard or but- 
ter. Mix this well, and add water, 
and beat till the batter is very 
smooth. Dissolve one teaspoonful 
of soda in a little boiling water, and 
add to the mixture, and grease a 
baking pan. Turn the mixture in and 
bake In a quick oven for about thir- 
ty-five minutes, till a golden brown. 
Take the bread from the pan whole, 
and place on a hot platter, and serve, 
cutting it at the table into slices 
about two inches long and three 
wide, and serving with butter. 

Egs Corn Bread. 

Pain de Mais aux Oeufs. 

1 Quart of Cornmeal. 4 Easra. 

1 Tablespoonfui of Butter or Lard. 

1 Pint of Milk (Buttermilk if Possible). 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the meal with boiling water 
suflScient to melt. Beat the yolks ot 
the eggs very, very light. Add the 
corn meal and melted butter, and the 
salt, and beat till very light, moist- 
ening with the milk. Then add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Beat all well together. Pour 
into a buttered or greased pan, or 
into shallow tins, and bake quickly. 
This is the real Creole Corn Bread, 
so highly praised by all tourists 
through Louisiana. The secret of the 
exquisite flavor depends upon the 
proper beating of the eggs, as well 
as on the rising of the corn bread 
itself. If the eggs are well-beaten, 
the corn bread will need neither soda 
nor yeast to make it rise properly. 
Some add a. tablespoonfui of sugar 
when they wish to have sweetened 
corn bread. Corn bread, to be de- 
licious, should always be served hot 
and generously buttered. 

Nonpareil Corn Bread. 

Pain de Mais Nonpareil. 

2 Gups of Indian Meal. 

1 Cup of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

2% Cups of Sweet Milk. 

1 Tablespoonfui of Lard. 

2 Tablespoonfula of Sugar (if desired). 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the eggs very, very light, the 
whites and yolks sepsirately. Melt 
the lard or butter, and gift the Bak- 
ing Powder into the sifted meal and 
flour. Stir this into the yolks of the 
eggs and the milk. Blend thorough- 



ly. Add the whites, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Beat well together, and bake 
quickly and steadily in a quick oven 
for about a half hour. Serve hot, 
with butter. 

Risen Corn Bread. 

Pain de Mais au Levain. 

X Quart of Cornmeal. 

1 pint of Milk or Water. 3 Eaga. 

1 TeasDoonful of Salt. 

2 Tablespoonfula of I'east. 

Beat the eggs well, and use boiling 
water or milk to blend the cornmeal, 
eggs and salt together. Then add 
the yeast, which you will .have dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Set the 
bread to rise for three or four hours 
and then bake in tins or in a greased 
pan, like a pone of bread, or make 
it into loaves. 

Again, the risen corn bread can be 
made much more quickly by simply 
adding two tablespoonfuls of yeast 
powder to the batter, or a half tea- 
spoonful of soda, dissolved in a cup 
of milk. Mix thoroughly, and bake 
in buttSred tins or a pan. Always 
scald the meal with boiling water 
first. 

Steamed Com Bread. 

Pain de Mais Si la Vapeur. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Cup of Louisiana Molasses. 

2 Cues of Sweet Milk. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

, Scald the meal. Beat the eggs very 
light, and beat the milk into them 
till very light. Add the molasses 
and yeast powder, and blend w_ell. 
Then add the flour, mixing and beat- 
ing till thoroughly blended. A half 
3Up of sugar may be used instead. of 
the molasses. Tie In a cloth, as you 
would roll a pudding, and place in a 
steamer, on top of a pot of boiling 
water, and cover first with a close 
cloth, and then with the steamer 
cover, and steam for three hours. 
Then turn into a hot dish, and eat 
as a plain dessert, with a Brandy 
or Hard or Cream Sauce. (See Pud- 
ding Sauces.) 

Cornmeal Pone. 
Pain de Mai's CrSole. 

1 Quart of the Finest Indian Meal. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
A Heaping Teaspoonful of Lard or Butter. 
1 Pint of Sour Milk or Buttermilk. 
3 Eggs. 
Pour just enough boiling water 
over the meal to scald it through and 
through, without making a dough or 
batter. Stir it well, and let' it grow 
tepid. It will be then quite dry. Beat 
two eggs very light, apd add to the 
meal, and add a melted tablespoonfui 
of lard or butter. Mix this well, and 
add the milk or buttermilk, and beat 
till the batter is very smooth. Dis- 
solve one teaspoonful of soda in a 



366 



little boiling water, and add to the 
mixture, and grease a baking pan. 
Turn the mixture in and bake in a 
quick oven for about thirty-live min- 
utes, till a golden brown. Take the 
pone from the pan whole, and place 
on a hot platter, and serve, cutting 
it at the table into slices about three 
inches long and two wide, and serv- 
ing with butter. 

A Plain Pone may be made by 
using hot water and lard, instead of 
milk and butter, making a thick 
dough, and form into loaves and 
bake. But it bears no comparison 
to the real Creole Pone, as made 
above. Nevertheless, this is a very 
good and nutritious white corn bread. 
In the rural districts of Louisiana 
the lard is often omitted, and the 
pone made simply of the hot water 
and cornmeal. 

Corn Dodg^ers. 
Petits Pain de Mais. 

1 Quart of Indian Kleal. 
1 Tablessioonful of Lard. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Scald the meal with boiling water. 
Add the melted lard and the salt. 
Use sufficient boiling water to make 
a very stiff batter or soft dough. 
Then take up a handful of the mix- 
ture, and mold it with your hands 
into oval mounds, tossing the cake 
of dough lightly between your hands 
in a dexterous manner, and leaving 
the impression of your fingers across. 
Bake the pones thus formed in a 
quick oven. They may be served at 
dinner, and are delicious when prop- 
erly made. 

Ash Cake. 

Petits Gateaux Cuits dans la Cendre. 

1 Quart of Indian. Meal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
This is a real old Southern darky 
cake. The ancient Creole negroes 
of Louisiana excelled in making and 
baking it, so that no. ashes clung 
to the clean white cake. An ash 
cake, as the name suggests, is al- 
ways baked in the ashes, on the 
open hearth, and wood ashes must be 
used. The darkies had a rouring fire 
and' a sufficient quantity of hot ashes. 
They swept a clean place on' the 
hearth and drew out a pile of hot 
ashes, and placed the pone of bread, 
shaped like the Corn Dodgers, on top 
of the ashes. This was covered with 
hot ashes, and let bake to a nice 
brown. Then the cake was drawn 
out of the ashes, wiped clean with a 
cloth till every particle of ashes that 
adhered in the crevices disappeared, 
and served hot with butter or mo- 
lasses. 

Again, the old Creole darkies wrap 
the cake In a layer of fig leaves, to 
bake more neatly, but the real Ash 
Cake is baked as above. 



Fried Corn Cakes. 

Gateaux de Mais Frits. 

1 Quart of Indian Meal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Make the dough as above, adding, 
if you wish, a well-beaten egg, and 
milk instead of water. Beat till very 
light, and drop the stiff batter in 
large spoonfuls on a frying pan that 
you will have greased well with fat 
bacon skin. These cakes are very 
delicious when properly made. They 
must be fried to a golden brown. 
After each cake is taken from the 
skillet, the latter must be wiped oft 
and regreased with the fat bacon 
before putting the next cake upon It. 
Serve hot at breakfast or dinner. 
HOEOAKE. 
Gateau a la Houe. 

1 Pint of Plour. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Boiling Water Sufficient to Make a Batter. 

These cakes may be baked on a 
griddle, just as you would a griddle 
cake, and served with butter. But 
the old Southern cooks, of which the 
Louisiana Creole plantation cooks 
were not the least, always baked 
these cakes on a hoe on h,ot coals 
in front of a wood fire, right out in 
the open air, before their cabin 
doors, or in their cabins before the 
roaring hearth fire. Hence the name 
Hoecake. The Hoecake was made of 
flour, with sufficient Tvater to moisten 
it well. A teaspoonful of butter or 
lard was added. 

The term Hoecake, so extensively 
used by the field hands, was taken 
up by masters and mistresses, and 
applied to a biscuit bread made of 
one pint of flour, one-half pint of 
milk, one teaspoonful of y«ast pow- 
der, and two spoonfuls of butter or 
one of lard, kneaded well together, 
rolled out with a rolling pin, and cut 
criss-cross, like diamonds, with a 
knife, and baked in the oven. 

This delightful refinement of the 
ancient Hoecake is served at dinner 
with a glass of milk or cream, as an 
accompaniment to Compotes of 
Fruits. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

IM Pints of Indian Meal. 3 Eggs. 
A Pint of Siveet Milk or Buttermilk or Hot 

Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter, or 1 of 

Lard. 

% Teaspoonful of Soda (Ma; Be Omitted.) 
Beat the eggs till very light, and 
add the cornmeal, and beat till light. 
Add the melted butter and the milk 
or water. If buttermilk is used, you 
may use the soda, dissolvins It In 
two tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 
Do not use the soda with the sweet 
milk. Make a dough or batter thick 
enough to be spread into cakes a 



367 



hal£ inch in thickness and about five 
inches in diameter, the caltes, of 
course, being formed round. Place 
in buttered tins, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for about a half hour, 
frequently brushing across while 
baking with melted butter. Do this 
about four or five times. 

In the olden days, Johnny Cake 
was baked on a clean, sweet board, 
before a hot coal fire. The board 
had to be made of oak wood. The 
cake was formed and_ placed on the 
board, and the board was inclined at 
an angle before the hot coal Are, 
with a piece of wood or a flatiron to 
hold it up, and the cake was placed 
' at such an angle that it could harden 
without slipping oft. When quite 
hard it was stood upright and baked 
to a nice, crisp brown on both sides, 
turning as needed, and frequently 
basting with butter. The Johnny 
Cake was' served hot for lunch or tea, 
being sent to the table hot, split and 
buttered, or served with fresh, 
sweet butter and buttermilk. Hence 
the old Creole song, which was sung 
to the little children, and which, 
being translated, runs: ^ 

"Come, Butter Cake! Come, Butter Caket 

Two little boys are waiting at the gate 

For a hot Johnny Cake. 
Come, Butter Cake!" 

And so on, the lines varying "Two 
little girls," or "Little girl and boy 
are waiting at the gate," according 
to the number of children the old 
mammy was tending. The old South- 
ern darkies also sang this song while 
churning. 

CRACKLING BREAD. 
Gratons. 

Cracklings are the bits of fat meat 
left after all the lard has been ren- 
dered from the fat pork. They are 
eaten extensively throughout rural 
Creole ' Louisiana. The fat pork is 
cut into small bits, about the size of 
a man's hand, and then fried till 
every bit of grease has been ex- 
tracted. This grease is then clari- 
fied and used as lard. The cracklings 
are saved, and eaten from time to 
• time within the next two weeks, sim- 
ply being warmed over again. Again, 
they may be made at any time by 
frying small bits of fat pork. These 
cracklings, to use the country par- 
lance, "Go very well with Corn 
Bread," and are not only eaten with 
it "au naturel," but also made Into 
that typical rural bread of the coun- 
try parishes, "Crackling Bread," or 
"Gratons." . 

To make this, take one pmt ot 
meal, a half teaspoonful of salt, and 
cold water enough to make a thick 
batter. Mix the cracklings, already 
fried of course, in the batter, and 
pour 'a large tablespoonful at a time 
on a griddle. Fry to a golden brown. 



Crackling' bread is very crisp, and if 
properly made is a very palatable 
bread, requiring no butter or other 
accompaniment to make it tooth- 
some. 

MUFFINS. 
Galettes. 

No breakfast cake admits of 
greater variety than the Muffin. We 
have Plain Muffins, Egg Muffins, Corn 
meal Muffins, Rice, Hominy and 
Cream Muffins, besides several fancy 
Muffins, and that delicious breakfast 
accompaniment, "Muffin Bread." 
Miiffln Bread. 
Pain Lev6 a la Pate de Galette. 

3 Cups ■ of- Flour. 
' 1 Pint of Milk. 

^1 Cake of Compressed Yeast. 
4 Egss. Vi Pound of Butter. 

1 Teasjjoonful ot Salt. 

Scald the milk and add the hutter. 
When it grows lukewarm, add the 
yeast, dissolved in about three ta-. 
blespoonfuls of warm water. Add the 
salt and flour, and beat well for 
about ten minutes. Then set in a 
warm place over night. In the morn- 
ing beat the yolks of the eggs well, 
and then the whites to a stiff froth; 
add the yolks and , beat well, and 
then add the whites, and mix all 
thoroughly. Beat till very light," let 
it stand for about a quarter of an 
hour, and then bake in a buttered 
pan for about twenty minutes in a 
quick oven. 

Bread Mufflns. 
GWettes de Pain. 
Left-over bread may be utilized in 
this way: 

2 Pints of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

1 Pint of Milk. 
% Cup of Sifted Flour. 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Soak the stale bread crumbs in the 
milk for a half hour. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs till very light, and the 
whites to a stiff froth. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt to the bread, and 
then pour in the melted butter, and 
mix thoroughly. Add the flour, into 
which you will have sifted the bak- 
ing powder, and beat well. Lastly, 
add the whites of the eggs, and put 
the mufflns into the muffin rings or 
gem pans, and bake for about a half 
hour in a quick oven. 

Cornmeal Muffins. 
Galettes de Farine de Ma'is. 

2 Cups ot Cornmeal. 

Ya Cup ot Sifted Flour. 2 Eggs. 

ly. Cups of Buttermilk or Sweet Milk. 

2 Spoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the meal. Scald the milk. 



368 



and add the butter. When lukewarm 
add to the cornmeal and beat well. 
Add the well-beaten yolks of the 
eggs, and beat well. Add the flour, 
into which the. yeast powder must 
previously be sifted. Mix well and 
add the whites of the eg-gs, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Beat steadily for 
about ten minutes, and then pour 
into greased muffin rings or gem 
pans, and bake for twenty minutes, 
in a quick oven. If buttermilk is 
used, add a teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in the milk. 

In making Muffins, if milk is not 
available, use lukewarm water, or 
half milk and half water, if pos- 
sible. 

Cream Muffins. 

Galettes a. la CrSme. 

1 Pint of Cream. 
1 Pint of Flour. 3 EKSg. , 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1% TeasDOOnfuls of Yeast Powder. 
Beat the whites and yolks of the 
eggs separately. Then add the cream 
and salt, and finally the flour, into 
which you will have blended the 
yeast powder. Beat well and flU 
the muffin ring or gem pans one-half 
full. Place in a quick oven and bake 
for twenty minutes. 

Bets Muffins. 

Galettes aux Oeufs. 

3 Cuss of Flour. 

1 Pint of SIllli. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast, or 2 Teaspoon- 

fuls of Bakinir Powder. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Prepare the Muffin batter as above. 
and set to rise over night. In the 
morning prepare the eggs as above 
indicated. Blend and beat till light. 
Then turn the muffin batter into 
greased muffin rings, and bake abo^t 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. The 
Muffins must be eaten hot. 

Graham Muffins are made in exact- 
ly the same manner, only the Gra- 
ham flour is used instead. Sometimes 
the Graham flour is mixed with the 
plain flour in the proportion of two 
cups of the former to one of the lat- 
ter. In Plain Muffins the eggs are 
omitted. 

Hominy Muffins. 
Galettes de SaccamitS. 

2 Cups of Fine Hominy. 3 Eess. 

M Cup of Melted Butter. 

3 Cups of Fresh Milk or Sour Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of White Sugar. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda, If Sour Milk Is Used. 
94 Cup of Flour. 
Mash the hdminy through a sieve, 
and then stir in the milk, salt, yeast 
powder and sugar. Add the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten very light, and then 
the flour, well-sifted. Lastly, add 



the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, and bake in a quick oven 
for twenty minutes. 

If buttermilk is used, add a half 
teaspoonful of soda, instead Oj. the 
yeast powder. These Muffins may 
also be made out of the left-over 
cornmeal. 

Queen Muffins. 

Galettes &. la Reine. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 
3 Cups of Flour. 3 Ekbs. 

1 Pint of Sweet Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butler. 

1 Teasjioonful of Salt. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder or J^ Cake 

of Compressed Yeast. 
If yeast is used, set the batter to 
rise over night, as in Egg Muffins, 
and then proceed in exactly the same 
manner, adding the eggs in . the 
morning. Beat the eggs separately 
till very light, add to the batter, 
and pour into mufiin rings or gem 
'pans and let the mixture rise a half 
hour longer. Then bake for twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. If yeast 
powder is used, beat the yolks of the 
eggs to a cream, add the scalded milk 
and butter, and add the flour. Beat 
till Very light, and add the yeast 
powder, and ' finally the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn 
into gein pans or muffin rings, and 
bake for twenty minutes in a hot 
"oven. 

Quick Muffins, 

Galettes a. la Vitesse. 

3 Cups of Flour. 
1 Pint of Milk. 
Vi Cake of Compressed Yeast, or 2 Teaspoon- 
fuls of Bakins: Powder. 
1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Scald the milk, and add the butter. 
When it grows lukewarm, add the 
yeast, the flour and salt, and beat all 
well for about ten minutes. Then 
set the bowl in a warm place, cover 
with a cloth, and let the mixture rise 
for about two hours. When very 
light, beat well again, and add two 
eggs well beaten. Turn into muffin 
rings or gem pans, and let them rise 
a half hour longer. At the end of ' 
that time place them in the oven and 
bake for about twenty minutes. If 
yeast powder is used, beat into the 
batter, and proceed to bake imme- 
diately. The Muffins may be baked 
in muffin rings, on a griddle, or as 
above indicated. 

Rice Muffins. 

Galettes de Riz. 

2 Cups of Boiled Rice. 

1 Cup of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

1% Pints of Milk. 

1 Tablesfioonful of Lard or Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar (May be Omitter). 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Mash the rice through a close sieve. 



369 



and beat the yolks very light, and 
add. Add the milk and butter, and 
then sift in the flour and half a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Add the 
sugar and the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Add the salt, 
and bake in muffin rings, in a quick 
oven for about fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. 

GEMS. 

Petits Bijoux. 

Prepare the same batter as for 
Quick Muffins. Pour into gem pans, 
and bake for about twenty-five min- 
utes. Graham Gems are made by 
using two cups of Graham meal to 
one cup of boiled rice or cornmeal, 
or two cups of Graham flour to one 
of wheat flour, and the other ingred- 
ients in the same proportion as for 
Quick Muffins. 

Corn GeiuB. 

Petits Bijoux a, la Farine de Mais. 

^^' 2 Cups of Cornmeal. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

4 Eggs. 1 Pint of Sweet Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Baking Powaer. 

Boil one-half of the milk and pour 
It over the cornmeal. Add the butter 
instantly, and stir well. When thor- 
oughly mixed add the cold milk and 
the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Add the salt and then the flour, into 
which you will have sifted the bak- 
ing powder. Mix thoroughly, and 
then add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour ijito 
greased or buttered gem pans, and 
bake about a half hour in a hot 
oven. Always remember to fill the 
pans only half full, leaving room for 
the batter to rise. 

CRUMPETS. 

Bmietes. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

3 Cups of Flour. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

1 TablesBOOnful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and set to cool. Add 
the salt, and gradually beat in the 
flour. Beat till very smooth, and 
add the yeast Beat continuously for 
ten minutes and then set in "a warm 
place to rise. After several hours 
beat well again, and add the melted 
butter. Mix thoroughly and then 
turn into greased muffin rings and 
bake till a beautiful brown, turn- 
ing first on one side and then on the 
other. Send to the table very hot. 
Break open with your fingers, and 
butter nicely. 

SAIiLY liUJflV. 

Pain a la Vielle Tante Zoe. 
Sally Lunn is nothing more than 
the old breakfast dish known to the 



Creoles for generations as "Pain a. 
la "Vielle de Tante Zoe." Take 

1 Pint ot Milk. 

IH Pints ot Flour. 

% Cupful Of Butter. 

4 Es:s. 1 Teaspoonlul of Salt. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Warm the butter in a pint of milk 
till the milk reaches the boiling 
point. Do not let it boil. Simply 
scald. Then add the salt and a ta- 
Ibespoonful of sugar. Let it cool. 
When tepid add the flour, well sifted, 
and beat thoroughly into the mixture. 
Lastly, add the yeast, dissolved in 
a little hot milk or water. B^at it 
continuously for at least five min- 
utes. Then, when the batter begins 
to break into blisters, cover it and 
set to rise for the night. In the 
morning add the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten till very light, and the whites, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Mix careful- 
ly, and dissolve a half teaspoonful of 
soda in the mixture, if it seems any- 
Tvay sour. Turn the whole into a 
shallow buttered dish, and set to 
rise for fifteen minutes longer. Bake 
about twenty or twenty-five minutes 
in a moderately quick oven, till it is 
a light brown. 

This cake, like all muffin batter, 
should not be cut with a knife, but 
torn apart with your hands. If cut, 
all muffin batter at once becomes 
heavy. The cake may be also made 
much more quickly by mixing in the 
morning, using the above ingred- 
ients, only adding three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, instead of the 
yeast. Beat quickly and thoroughly, 
and turn into a buttered tin, and set 
to bake at once. Send to the table 
hot, and eat with a generous endow- 
■ ment of butter. 

WAFFLES. 

Gaufres. 

Waffles are delightful accompani- 
ments of breakfast, lunch or tea, and 
may be made of flour, rice, hominy 
or cornmeal. In all recipes for Waf- 
fles, if you have not the milk, substi- 
tute lukewarm water, and if you 
have no butter, use instead a half 
spoon of lard, but certainly the taste 
of the Waffles is much improved by 
the butter and milk, especially the 
butter. Half milk and half water, 
boiled and grown tepid, may also be 
used in the proportions indicated in 
the recipes. 

Plain Waffles. 

Gaufres de Proment. 

These Waffles are made of flour, 
and are more especially known as 
"Plain Waffles." They .are the Waf- 
fles most generally served. They are 
made as follows: 



370 



3 Cubs of Flour. 

2 Eg2S. 2 Cupa of Milk. 

m Teaspoonfols of Baking rowder. 

1 Large TablesDoonful of Butter. 

1 TeasDOontul of Salt. 

Sift tlie flour and salt and baking 
powder tog'ether. Beat the yolk of 
the egg- till very light. Add the 
melted butter to the milk, which 
should be scalded and grown luke- 
warm, and then mix in the whites 
of the eggs. Now add the flour grad- 
ually, making a nice, light batter. 
If it appears at all stiff, add a little 
more milk. Have your waflle Irons 
ready, thoroughly heated. Have at 
hand a small brush or a stick with 
a piece of clean, fringed cloth 
wrapped around the end. Dip this 
In a little melted lard, and brush 
over the interior of the irons, till 
every part is greased. Pour the bat- 
ter into a pitcher, so that you may 
the more easily .fill the irons. Fill 
until the elevations are lightly cov- 
ered, and then close the irons quickly 
and turn it over. Bake the Waflle 
about two minutes, or till a nice, 
delicate brown. Carefully remove 
from the irons, place in a hot plate 
or waflle dish in the mouth of the 
oven, and proceed with the baking. 
Sei;d to the table very hot. 
Cornmeal W^afiles. 
Gaufres de Farine de Mai's. 

2 Cubs of Cornmeal. 

1 Cup of Flour,- 3 EZ2S. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

% Teaspoonful of Soda. Dissolved Itt Hot 

-Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and then add the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Add 
the milk and the soda, dissolved in 
a little hot water, and then add the 
melted butter and the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Now 
add the flour, gradually making a 
nice batter, not too thick, nor ye.t 
too thin. Beat till all is very smooth 
and proceed to bake as above. 

Rice may be substituted for the 
flour, if you desire rice ahd cornmeal 
muflins; add about two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour to bind. 

"Waffles of left-over grits may be 
prepared by adding one cup of grits 
to two of flour, and proceeding as 
above. 

Potato -Waffles. 

Gaufres de Pommes de Terre. 

1 Pint of Irish Potatoes. 
4 Eeks. 1 Pint of Flour. 

ly. Pints of Milk. 
^ Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Mash the boiled, left-over potatoes 
through a sieve, and then add the 
milk and the sifted flour. Add the 
yeast, which you will have dissolved 
in a little warm water, and set the 



whole to rise for two hours. At the 
end of that time add the eggs, beaten 
separately, and mix well. Set to 
rise again for a half hour, till light, 
and then proceed to bake as in Plain 
Waffles. 

Sweet Potato Waffles, 

Gaufres de Patates Douces. 

2 Cups of Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 

1 Cup of Melted Butter. 

V4 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Pint of luilk. 2 Eggs. 

4 Tablessoonfuls of Flour, 

Mash the potatoes through a sieve, 
and add the eggs, beaten separately. 
Mix well, and add the sugar, and beat 
till very light. Then add the butter 
and beat again, and add the milk, 
mixing thoroughly. Now add the 
flour, using sufficient to make a thin 
batter, that will bind the potatoes. 
Grease the -waffle irons -well, and pro- 
ceed to bake as above indicated. 
Properly made these -waffles are de- 
licious. Left-over potatoes may be 
thus utilized. The eggs may be 
omitted. 

Rice -Waffles. 

Gaufres de Kiz. 

1 Cua of Boiled Rice. 

Hi Pints of Milk. 2 Kggs. 

1 Cup of Flour or 2 Cups of Rice Flour. 

2 TeasDoonfuls of .Baking Powder. 

1 Teassoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Mash the rice through a sieve. Beat 
the yolks light, and add, and then 
add the salt, the baking powder and 
the milk. Beat -well, and add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Now add the rice flour to • 
make a thin 'batter, and proceed to 
bake as above. Be careful to grease 
the irons very well, so that the rice 
may not adhere. If white flour, 
rather than the rice flour, is used, use 
in proportion two cups of boiled rice. 
Instead of one. 

Risen -Waffles. 
Gaufres au Levain. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1V> Quarts pf Milk. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

3 Eggs. 

2 TaWespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk, add the butter, and 
let it grow tepid. Sift the flour arid 
salt together, and add the milk and 
butter, and finally the yeast. Beat 
all continuously for five or ten min- 
utes, and then cover well and set 
in a warm place for about two 
hours. Beat the whites and the 
yolks of the eggs separately, and add 
first the yolks to the batter, after it 
has riseh well, and then add the 
whites. Beat in thoroughly, and set 
to rise again for about a quarter of 
an hour. Then beat lightly and pour 



371 



Into a pitcher. Prepare the waffle 
Irons as indicated above, and pro- 
ceed to bake in the same manner. 

These Risen Waffles may also be 
made by mixing the flour, milk and 
salt and yeast together, and setting 
to rise over night. In the morning 
add the melted butter and the eggs, 
beaten separately, set to rise fifteen 
minutes longer, and proceed as above. 

Other Breakfast Cakes. 

Autres Gateaux de DS.ieuner. 

In addition to Muffins, Waffles, etc., 
"Batter Cakes." "Flannel Cakes," 
"Buckwheat Cakes," "Griddle Cakes," 
etc., form pleasing a,nd toothsome 
varieties for the morning meal, and. 
It might be added, not only for the 
morning meal, but f6r luncheon and 
tea as well. 

BATTER CAKIS&. 

Galettes de Pate. 

2 Cuds of Flour, Finely Sifted. 

2 Cupfuls of Sweet Milk. 

2 Tablespoontuls of Baking Powder. 

3 Eggs. 

Beat the whites and the yolks of 
the eggs separately, the former to 
a stiff froth. Add the flour to the 
yolks, and beat till very light. Add 
the yeast powder and bake again. 
Then add the sweet milk and beat 
well. Now add the whites of the 
eggs and mix all to a very smooth, 
light batter, as thick as a battel: that 
will run in a stream from the mouth 
of a spoon. Have ready the hot 
griddles, which you will grease with 
lard lightly, or better still, with a 
piece of fat bacon. Drop the cakes 
on the griddle from a large spoon, 
and baVe about two minutes to a 
nice brown, turning first on one side 
and then quickly on the other. 
Pile the cakes on a plate in the 
mouth of the oven, buttering each 
generously as soon as baked, and 
send to the table almost as fast as 
you bake. These are the most deli- 
cate and delightful of all Griddle 
Cakes. 

They may also be made with sour 

milk, instead of sweet, in which case 

use a half teaspoonful of soda, in- 

otead of the baking powder. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Galettes de Sarrasin. 

8 Cups of Buckwheat -Flour (Perfectly Pure). 

154 Pints of Sweet Milk or Water. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Take a small earthen crock, or a 
pitcher, and put the warm milk or 
water, or half milk and water, into 
U. and then add the salt and the 
buckwheat flour. Beat till perfectly 
smooth, and then, when you have a 
stiff batter, add the yeast, dissolved 
In a little water. Beat this till 



smooth, and then cover well and set 
to rise over night. In the morning 
add a half teaspoonful of soda or 
saleratus, to remove any sourness 
that may have accrued during the 
night, and this addition will also 
increase the lightness of the cakes. 
Bake on a griddle, like Batter Cakes. 
Buckwheat Cakes are also often 
made by taking two cups of buck 
wheat flour, one cup of wheat flour, 
one and three-quarters pints of 
mlik, one teaspoonful of salt, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and 
mixing all together till very light, 
and baking immediately on griddles^ 
Many, indeed, prefer them combined 
with the flour. This mixture may 
also be made as in the aboye recipe, 
by using compressed yeast, and set- 
ting to rise over night. A table- 
spoonful of butter may also be aflcfed 
if desired. Serve with Louisiana 
Syrup. 

FliANNEL. CAKES. 

Galettes de Pate au Levain. 

1 Pint of Milk. 2 Eggs. 

^i Cake of Compressed Teast. 

3 Cuss of Flour. 

14 Teaspoonful of S^lt. 

Heat the milk, and when it grows 
tepid, add the yeast, dissolved in a 
little hot milk or water, and flour 
sufficient to make a stiff batter. Set 
to rise over night, or for at least 
three hours in the morning. In the 
morning add the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten light, and the melted butter, 
and mix well. Then add the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Beat well, 
and then bake on a griddle, as in 
the above recipe for Batter Cakes. 

Be sure to make the batter stiff 
enough at the start to allow for the 
admixture of the eggs and butter in 
the morning. When once the cakes 
have risen, no flour must be added, 
unless the cakes are set to rise for 
an hour again. 

Sweet Flannel Cakes are made by 
adding a half cup of sugar. These 
arc nice for tea. 

Again, Flannel Cakes may be made 
without yeast, by using one pint of 
buttermilk and one teaspoonful of 
soda. The batter is then made in 
the morning, without setting to rise 
over night, and is baked on the 
griddle immediately after mixing. 
Omit the butter in these buttermilk 
cakes. They will be very light and 
spongy without the butter. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Gateau a. la Plaque. 

3 Cuss of Flour. 

3 Cups of Sour Milk or Wann Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

3 F.ggs, Beaten Very Light. 

•1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Mix the flour and meal, and pour 



372 



on the milk or warm water. Make 
a batter somewhat stiffier than for 
Buckwheat Cakes, and add the eggs, 
Tvell-beaten, the whites and yolka 
separately, and finally add the soda, 
dissolved In a little warm water. 
Bake on a griddle, making the cakes 
large and generous. Serve with 
Louisiana Syrup. 

Bread Griddle Cakes. 

Gateau de Pain k la Plaque. 

Utilize stale, left-over bread for 
these cakes. Take 

1 Quart of Bollins Mill:. 

2 Cups of Fine Bread Crumbs. 

3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoontul of Melted Butter. 

% Teaspoontul of Salt. 

Soak the bread in the boiling milk, 
and as it cools beat it to a very 
smooth paste. Then add the yolks 
of the eggs, beaten very light, and 
the soda, dissolved in a little warm 
water. Finally add the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
and a half cupful of sifted flour to 
bind well. Bake on a hot griddle, 
and butter, and serve with Louisiana 
Molasses or Syrup. 

Commeal Griddle Cakes. 

Gateau de Farine de Mais k la 
Plaque. 

V4 Teaspoonful of Soda. 
2 Cu£is of Cornmeal. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

3 Eggs. 

3 Cups of Sour Milk or Warm Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Scald the meal and mix with the 
milk. Add the flour, into which you 
will have mixed the salt. Beat the 
eggs very light and add, and. when 
all has been beaten very light add 
a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a 
little w^arm water. Bake on a grid- 
dle to a nice brown. If sweet milk 
Is used, be careful to use. instead 
of the soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

Graham flour, which is now used 
so much, may be made into griddle 
cakes, using two cups of the flour to 
one of wheat flour, and adding also 
one large tablespoonful of lard or 
butter. Cook as other Griddle Cakes 
on a hot griddle. 

Hoinln7 Gi^Iddle Cakes. 

Gateau de SaccajnitS k la Plaque. 

2 Cups of Hominy. 

1 Ouo of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

3 Eggs. 

S Cups of Sour Milk or Warm Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Boil and mash the honiiny, or util- 
ize left-over hominy. Add the flour. 
Into which you will have mixed the 



add, and when all has been beaten 
very light add a teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in a. little warm water. 
Bake on a griddle to a nice brown. 
If sweet milk is used, be careful to 
use, instead of the soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Serve 
with Louisiana Molasses or Syrup. 

Frencb Griddle cakes. 

Gateau de Plaque k la Frangaise. 

1^ Pints of Sifted Flour. 

6 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoontul of Butter. 

1 Ounce of Sugar. 

1 Cub of Milk. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar very light; then add the flour 
and melted butter, and then add the 
warm milk. Beat all till very light. 
Add a half teaspoonful of baking 
powder, and then add the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat all till very smooth. Drop a 
tablespoonful at a time upon the 
hot griddle; turn quickly and bake 
on the other side, allowing about 
two minutes in all; place on a hot 
platter, butter well and spread with 
Jelly; then roll up, dust with pow- 
dered sugar and serve very hot. 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes. 

Gateau de Mai's Tendre k la Plaque. 

1 Quart of Finely-Grated Green Com. 

1 Pint of Milk. 4 Eggs. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

Beat the eggs separately, and then 
«idd the yolks, well beaten, to the 
corn. Add the salt, melted butter 
and the milk, and mix well. Then 
add sufficient flour to make a thin 
batter, and finally the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake 
on a hot griddle, butter generously, 
and serve very hot. This is a great 
Creole cake, and very delicipus. 

R2ce Griddle Cakes. 

Gateau de Riz k la Plaque. 

2 Cups of Boiled Rice. 

1 Cur of Flour. 2 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Milk or Water. 

H Teaspoonful of Salt. 

114 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sugar. 

Mash the rice through a sieve. Sift 
the flour, baking powder and salt 
together, and add the sugar to the 
milk. Add this to the flour and mix 
in the rice till free from any lumps. 
Then add the eggs, the whites and 
yolks beaten separately, and mix 
into a very smooth batter. Have tho 
griddle well-heated. Bake the cakes 
to a nice brown, and serve with 
Louisiana Syrup. 



373 



PUFFS. 

Souffles. 

1 Pint of Sweet Milk. 
y^ Pound of Flour. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

4 



Beat the whites and the yolks 
separately till very, very light. 
Warm the milk and add the melted 
butter. When cold, mix with the 
yolks of the eggs, and add the flour 
and salt, beating till very light. Now 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Stir lightly, turn 
into buttered tins, fllliug each about 
half full, and bake to a light brown. 

CRACKSfKLS. 

Craquelins. 

2 Cups of Rich Milk. 
4 Tflblespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Gill of yeast. 
] Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and add the butter, 
and let it grow tepid. Then add 
the yeast and dissolve well. Add the 
salt, and now add the flour sufficient 
to make a light dough. Set to rise, 
and when twice Its bulk work light- 
ly, and roll out very thin, and cut 
into pieces about two and a half 
inches sauare. Stick well with a 
fork through and through, and bake 
in a slow oven, as you would soda 
crackers. 

HOMS-MADB YEAST. 

Levain de Manage. 

6 Large Potatoes. 

A Handful of Hops. 

3 Pints of Water. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

% Cup of Yeast. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Batter. 

Commeal to Blend. 

In these days of baking powders 
and prepared yeasts that are sold by 
all grocers, and that have proved 



such a saving of time and trouble to 
the housekeeper, it nlight seem super- 
fluous to add a recipe for making 
yeast. Nevertheless, the following 
ancient recipe, in use for many years 
in Creole homes, is given as the final 
recipe of the Picayune's Creole Cook 
Book: 

Take six large potatoes, and pare 
them, and then boil in about three 
pints of water. Take a handful of 
hops, and tie them in a muslin bag, 
and boil with the potatoes. When 
these are thoroughly cooked, drain 
the water on sufficient flour to make 
a good batter, and set the mixture 
on the stove for a few minutes, till 
the flour is well-scalded. Do not let 
it boil or simmer under any consid- 
eration. Take it from the Are, ana 
let it cool. Then mash the potatoes 
and add them to the flour, and add a 
half cup of sugar and a half cup of 
yeast. Let it stand in a warm place 
till it has thoroughly risen.' Then 
add cornmeal that has been sifted 
and dried, and knead well, until you 
have a dough thick enough to roll 
out, and that will crumble when dry. 
Cut this dough into cakes, and spread 
on a board and place in the shade 
to dry. Then keep in a box in a dry 
place. 

This mixture may be also kept and 
used as a liquid by simply stopping 
when you have come to the point 
where you must add the cornmeal. 
Let the mixture thus stand in a 
warm place till it ^has thoroughly 
risen. Then scald a large jar, wipe 
dry, and put in the yeast. Cover 
tight, and keep in a cool place. 
One- third of a cupful of yeast will 
make two loaves of bread. 

But as Compressed Teast can be 
had at any grocer's, and is a great 
saving of time and trouble, it is 
always better to get it, and it has 
this advantage, that it may be pro- 
cured fresh when needed. 



CHAPTER XLVIII. 



SUGGKSTIONS TO HOUSEKBBPF.KS. 



The following suggestions will be 
found of interest to ail housekeep- 
ers, especially to the young and in- 
experienced. They have been care- 



fully prepared, with especial refer- 
ence to the needs of the household, 
and bear in every respect upon the 
recipes given in the Picayune's Cre- 
ole Cook Book: 



374 



Comparative Table of Weights and 
Measures Used In the Pica- 
yune's Creole Cook Book. 

Every housekeeper should have for 
her own convenience and for the 
correct measurement of Ingredients 
used in making any dish, where ex- 
measurements are absolutely neces- 
sary to success, a pair of scales, 
and a set of tin measures with small 
lips or spouts; these measures should 
range from one gallon to a half gilJ. 
But as so few housekeepers think of 
the necessity of having such meas- 
ures until they set to making prepa- 
rations where measurements must be 
exact, the following carefully pre- 
pared table may be referred to with 
absolute reliance upon the compara- 
tive quantities given: 

Twenty-five drops of thin liquid equal half 
a teaspconful. 

Four tablespoonfnls of solid or liquid equal 
one tablpspoonful of solid or liquid. 

Four tablespoonfiils equal one wineglassful 
or one-half cill. 

One wlneglassful equals half a gill or a 
quarter of a cup. 

Two wineglassfuls equal one gill, or half a 
cup. 

Two gills equal one teacupful, or sixteen 
tablespoonfuls. 

One teacupful or one liitchen cupful equals 
half a pint. 

Two teacupfuls or two kitchen cupfuls equal 
one jint. 

Two pints equal one quart. 

Pour quarts equnl one pailon. 

One tablespoonful of liquid equals halt an 
ounce. 

Two tablespoon fuls equal one oiuice. 

One level tablespoonful of Hour equals halt 
an ounce. 

Two level tablespoonfuls solid equal one 
ounce liquid. 

Sixteen ounces equal one pound. 

One pound of solid is equal to one pint of 
liquid. 

One quart of unsifted flour equals one 
pound. 

Four teacupfuls of sifted flour equal one 
pound. 

Three cups of cornmeal equal one pound. 

One and one-half piuts of cornmeal equal 
one pound, t 

One pint or two cups of granulated sugar 
equal one pound. 

One pint or two cups of brown sugar equal 
one pound. 

Two and one-halt cnpfuls of white Jul- 
▼erized sugar equal one pound. 

One well-rounded tablespoonful of butter 
equals one ounce. 

1 Tablespoonful of salt equals one ounce. 

One teacupful of cold, hard butter, pressed 
down, equals half a pound. 

Two cups of cold, .butter, pressed down, 
equal one pound. 

One pint of fluel.v-chopped meat, solidly 
packed, equals one pound. 

An ordinary sized tumblerful is equal to 
half a pint, or one teacupful. 

Ten esKs equal one pound. 

A dash of pepper is equal to one-eighth 
of a teassoonful. 

Rules to lie OTiserved In mixing 
Ingredients. 

In every recipe given in this book 



follow implicitly the exact order 
given for the mixing of ingredients. 
This mixing has been systematically 
arranged, and any deviation will fail 
of success. Do not think that you 
can put all your ingredients together 
pell-mell and succeed in making any 
Creole dish. Whether mixing the in- 
gredients in a "Roux," preparatory to 
adding the ingredient which con- 
stitutes the dish proper, or whether 
making desserts, cakes, etc., add 
every ingredient, even though it be 
only a dash of pepper or a flavoring 
extract, in the exact order and pro- 
portion given. On the strict observ- 
ance of these rules followed by Cre- 
ole cuisinieres, depends the success 
6f Creole Cookery. 

Cutting, Chopping, Slicing and 
Mincing, 

Observe implicitly the directions 
given in regard to cutting, chopping, 
slicing and mincing, whether applied 
to vegetables, meats or seasonings. 

When the Picayune Creole Cook 
Book says to chop an ingredient, it 
means to chop in the strict sense of 
the word. When it directs that veg- 
etables, etc., shall be cut, it means 
to cut, in the proper acceptation 
of that term in cookery. When it 
says to slice, it means that the in- 
gredient shall be sliced, and not cut 
or chopped; and so when the term 
"mince" is used,, it means that the 
ingredient shall be minced, or hashed, 
or grated, as fine as possible. 
The Use of Wines and Liquors in 
the Picayune's Creole 
Cook Book. 

In regard to the use of Wines and 
Liquors in cooking, it may be said 
that wine enters frequently into the 
preparation of Creole dishe», such 
as meat, stews, courtbouillons, etc. 
In all recipes, however, where its 
use is indicated in this book, it may 
be omitted, according to taste, with- 
out detriment to the dish, except in 
"Courtbouillon a, la Creole,". the fa- 
mous "Bouilliabaisse," and in all 
Matelotes, in Salmi of Venison, and 
in certain preparations of meats and 
poultry and game in which the suc- 
cess of the dish depends greatly 
upon the flavoring given by a small 
addition of wine. But. as a general 
rule, wine may be used or omitted 
according to the taste. This ex- 
planation is given because there are 
many families, Creole and otherwise, 
who object to the use of wine, even 
in cooking. 

As regards Wine, Brandy and Rum 
in Sauces for Puddings, etc., a va- 
'riety of recipes that are equally re- 
cherche and in which liquors of no 
kind are used, are specified In this 
book. The intelligent housekeeper, 
therefore, will find a varied and 
pleasing selection with or without 
wine or liquors. 



375 



Tbe TTse of Broth, Bouillon or 
Consomme in Cooking. 

What has been said In regard to 
Wines and Liquors holds good with 
regard to the use of Broth, Bouillon 
or Consomme, indicated in many of 
the recipes for fish, meats, poultry, 
etc. While the infusion of Broth, 
Bouillon or Consommg, or oyster 
water In lieu of plain water, adds, 
where indicated, a delightful flavor 
to the dish, the use of any of these 
is not imperative in making the dish, 
and water, in the proportion given 
for Broth or ConsommS, may always 
be used instead, except in special re- 
cipes. For instance, if you wish to 
have a real "Jambalaya k la CrSoIe," 
the use of Broth or Consomme in- 
stead of water, where the Jambalaya 
is made of meats, and the use of oys- 
ter water where it is made of oys- 
ters, will impart a flavor that is far 
superior to a dish prepared with wa- 
ter. Nevertheless, in hundreds of 
househol-ds water is used almost ex- 
clusively, even in making a Jamba- 
laya, because it is not every family 
that chooses to make a pot of Broth 
or Consomme just for the purpose of 
using it as an ingredient for a dish, 
and in our climate it is not possible 
to always keep a quantity of meat 
or flsh stock on hand for culinary 
purposes. 

Never be afraid, therefore, to un- 
dertake a dish because it calls for 
wine or Bouillon or Consommg. Just 
proceed with the cooking, using wa- 
good, and other directions implicitly 
ter instead, and if your seasoning is 
followed in the preparation and cook- 
ing, the absence of either wine or 
Consomme will scarcely be detected 
by even the most experienced cook 
or epicure. 

Elxplanatlon of French Terms tJsed 

in Cooliing and Serving 

Dlstes. 

In preparing the Creole Cook Book 
the Picayune has sought to overcome 
the great difficulty that the majority 
of people outside of Louisiana ex- 
perience in understanding French 
terms, as applied to various dishes 
and orders of service. Discussions 
have been going on in all parts of 
the country of late as to the desir- 
ability of abolishing all French 
terms on bills of fare, one celebrated 
newspaper declaring: "What is the 
use of calling a dish 'Canard Canvas- 
back,' when there is no French name 
for the famous Canvasback Duck?" 
Ail this is very amusing down here 
in Louisiana, where the Canvasback 
Duck has been always known as the 
"Canard de Cheval." And so with 
other dishes. The use of French, 
however, 'continues in bills of fare 
prepared for all distinguished ban- 
quets, etc., critics td the contrary 



notwithstanding, and will continue, 
because the French order of service 
is the one accepted the world over, 
in all state and official gatherings, 
and the pretty touch given to a dish 
called by a French name is one that 
ladies especially will be slow to give 
up. An air of distinction is conferrei 
upon even a homely dish by calling it 
by its French name, and, as remarked 
above, all criticisms against the prac- 
tice will not do away with the usage. 
The Picayune has sought to over- 
come the difficulty experienced by. 
those who are not acquainted with 
the French language and French 
terms in cooking by giving with each 
recipe not only the correct Bnfelish 
name of the dish, but the French one 
also. It now proposes to further as- 
sist housekeepers and caterers gen- 
erally by giving the definitions of a 
few additional French terms used in 
cooking and serving dishes: 

Assaissonement — A Seasoning; a salaj 
dressing:. 

Assaissonnement Aromatinue — An aromatie 
seasoning, such aa " parsley, cliervil, etc. 

..Aspic — This Is a meat jelly ur' sayory for 
cold dishes. Boned Turkey. Galantine, Calf's 
Foot Jelly, Cold Tongue, Cold Daube, are ali 
termed "En ABpic." 

Au Gratin— AH baked or roasted dishes that 
are prepared with crumbs grated and sprink- 
led oyer are called "Au Gratin." 

Bouchees — A Bouchee indicates a mouthful, 
and is from the French "Bouche," the mouth. 
It is applied in cooking to all yery thin, 
small patties or cakes, as "Bouchees d'Hui- 
tres," "Bouchees a la Reine," etc. 

Bonne Bouche— A good mouthful. 

Baba— A peculiar Creole sweet cake, ma'da 
of yeast, flour, milk and eggs. 

Bisque— A soup made of staellSsh. It is red 
in color, suet as "Crawfish Bisque." the 
shells of which are boiled and mashed and . 
pounded and strained and added to the soup 
stock. A "Lob%ter Bisque" may be prepared 
after the same manner as the "Crawfish 
Bisque" in latitudes where lobsters may be 
obtained fresh. The Bisque then becomes 
"Bisque d'Homard." 

Bisque d'Ecreylsse— A Crawfish Bisque or 
soul. 

Blanchair— To blanch. To blanch an article 
set it on tlie fire till it boils, and then 
plunge in cold water. This rule applies to 
vegetables, poultry, nuts, almonds, etc. The 
skin is thus removed and the article is 
blanched. Blanching also means simply to 
scald, as blanching oysters. 

Bouillon— A bouillon is a clear soup, much 
stronger than broth, and yet not quite fo 
strons as Consomme. 

Bourtins— A form of sausaie. 

Boulettes— A small ball of meat, fish, etc., 
iasJied and formed in balls and fried. 

Bouilliabaisse— A famous French-Creole way 
of cooking flsh. the French using the Sturgeon 
'and Perch; the Creoles the Redflsh and Bed 
Snapper. The flsh is cooked to the point 
where it begins to boil; then you must stop 
on the Instant. Hence the word "Bouilli- 
tiaisse," from "Bouilllr," to boil, and 
"Baisse," to stop. (See recipe ' for Bouilli- 
abaisse.) 

BuisBon d'ificrevisse- -A Crawfish Bush. This 
is a celebrated Creole hors d'oeuvre, as also 



376 



a yerj handsome table garnish. The crawflsli 
are boiled; a glass fruit or cake stand Is 
placed in the center of the table, and a goblet 
is set upon it; the goblet is filled with celery 
tips and. parsley tips, and the entire dish 
is beautifully garnished like a bush of green- 
ery. The crawfish are hung around the edges 
of the goblet and the dish, and in amid the 
greenery, and the effect of the red against 
the green is very pretty, and for all the world 
like a bush of green and red. TJie crawfish 
are served fram the bush. 

Buisson de Chevrettea— A Shrimp Bush. This 
resembles the Crawfish Bush, only the shrimp 
are small and cannot be hung with much 
grace from the sides and round of tibe dish. 
They are, therefore, piled into a small, deep 
glass dish first, and a cover is put on top lo 
press them down. They are then turned over, 
and will be found clinging together in one 
fiolid mass. This is then placed on top of a 
lowing orders of service are intend- 
glass cake stand or fruit dish. Dainty bits 
of celery ~ tips and asparagus are heaped 
around as a border; another row is formed a 
little lower, and again intermingled with 
asparagus tips and celery tops, between 
■which the pink shrimp glimmer. The effect is 
very pretty. This also is arranged for a table 
garnish, and the shrimp are served as an 
hors d'oeuvrc. 

■Braise— xo smother. AH meats, fish, vege- 
tables, etc., cooked in a closely-covered stew- 
pan, so as to retain not only their own flavor 
but those of all other Ingredients entering 
Into the dish, are termed "Braise," or "a la 
Braise." 

Brioche— This is our delightful Creole break- 
fast cake, made of slightly sweetened egg 
and milk, batter and yeast, set to rise over 
night, and formed into a "Brioche," o;- cakt?, 
with a central cake for a head, and the 
other cakes arranged, to the number of six 
or eight, around, and sprinkled with sugar. 

Canapes— On toast. Anything served on toaat 
Is called "sur Canapes." 

Canelle — Cinnamon. 

Canneton (masculine); Canette (feminine)— 
DuCii-iins. 

■Canneton— Meat stuffed and folded up; force- 
meat b2.11s. 

Charcuterie— The term for all sausages. 

Civet— A stew made of hare and so called 
because of the fiavor of chives (cives) that 
enters into its comaosition. 

Consomme— A clear soup that has been 
boiled down to almost a jelly -broth, and 
wheich is very rich. 

Consomme Dore— A gilded or golden yellow 
consomme. 

A la Creme— With Cream, as "Sauce a la 
Creme," etc. 

Creme a la Glace— Ice Cream. 

Coup de :aiilieu— A middle drink or course 
served in the middle of the meal, just before 
the roasts, as "Ponche a la Cardinale," "ito- 
man Punch," "Sorbet a la lloyale," etc. 

Craoaud- A toad; bullfrog. 

A la Crapaudine— Crapaudine means like a 
toadstool, or stone, ■ as "Pigeons a la Cra- 
paudine," which means pigeons cooked and 
dressed to resemble little toadstools or frogs 
on a stone. (See recipe Pigeons a la Cra- 
paudincj 

Courtbouillon— A fish stew, generally made 
of Redfish. 

Courtbouillon a la Creole— A stew of Ked- 
fish. to which wiua is added. 

Croutons— Crusts of bread cut like dice or 
la any fancy shape, and toasted or fried In 
butter. 



Croustades— Pieces of bread larger thaa 
Croutons toasted or fried in butter or lard, 
and used ^to serve minces or meats upon. 

Dindonneau— A turkey .chick. 

Dari^le— A custard pie. 

Diable— The devil. 

A la diable— According to the devil. Gen- 
erally applied to hot, fiery preparations of 
meats, sauces, etc. 

Entree— A side dish, served between the 
courses at dinner, 

Entremet— A small by-dish. Kutremets are 
sweet or ^otherwise. 

Bau de Vie— Brandy or Whisky. Eau de Vie 
properly means "water of life." 

Entremet Sucre— A sweet ^y-dish. Sweet 
entremets are generally served towards the 
close of the meal, just before the roasts. 

Flan^A custard. 

Fondue— To melt. Generally applied to a 
light preparation of molted cheese, such a^ 
"Welsh Rarebit." 

Fondant— Sugar boiled and beaten to ft 
cream paste. 

Granits— Aromatized fruit waters. 

Grille— Broiled. 

Hors d oeuvres— A by-dish; an outwork; a 
digression. Under this term is classed all 
dishes that are regarded simply as accesso* 
ries to a meal, and designed to excite the 
appetite, but not to satisfy. It is undoubt- 
edly because they are placed on the table 
outside or apart from other dishes that they 
have been so called. 

A la Jardiniere — According to the gardener'g 
wife. 

Matelote— A rich fish stew, made with wine. 

Mayonnaise — A rich salad dressing, made 
with eg^, oil, vinegar, etc., and served with 
chicken, shrimp, fish salad generally. 

Meringue— The whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth with sujar. 

Meringuees— Covered with a Meringue. 

Marinade — A rich liquor of spices, vinegar 
or wine, etc., in which beef or fish 'ire 
steeped for several hours before cooking. 

A la mode — After a mode or fashion. 

Mironton— Cold boiled meat; hashed and 
warmed over, and served in various ways. 

Neiire— Snow. 

A la Neige— Snowy ; like snow. 
; Fate— A batter; a pie dough. 

I^ates— Small pies or patties of oysters, 
meats, fruits, etc. 

Panache— Mottled, variegated. As "Creme 
Fanachees," or "Variegated lee Cream." 
■ Poulet— A chicken. 

A la Poulette— As a chicken; for instance. 
a "Sauce a la Poulette," always has eggs 
added, the eggs giving the distinctive name 
"a la Poulette." 

Praline— A distinctive Creole sugar cake 
made of cocoanut and sugar or pecans and 
sugar. (See recipes "Pralines.") 

Pralinee— Sugared, or sugar-coated. 

Piment— Pepper. 

Pimente— Peppered. 

Piquante— A sauce of piquant flavor, vinegar 
or acid predominating, and highly seasoned 
with pepper. 

A la Plaque— A "Plaque" Is a flat baking 
pan or griddle. Articles baked in it are 
called "a la Plaque," as Pan Bread, or "Pain 
a la Plaque." 

Quenelles— Meat, liver, flsh or potatoes 
chopped and highly seasoned and rolled into 



377 



balls or boulcttes and boiled and Berved as 
a garnish. We liave also "Potato Quenelles." 

Ragout— A rich ste.v of meat or poultry, 
generally made witii, vegetables, such as 
mushrooms, green peas, truffles, potatoes, 
etc. 

Ratafia — A kind of liqueur or wine cordial. 

Remoulade— A dressing for salads, some- 
Tvhat like the Mayonnaise, but differing in 
this, that the eggs are all har(J-boiled and 
rubbed in a mortar \\ith mustard, vinegar, 
minced garlic, etc. 

Releves— A side dish; a term applied when 
it is desired to serve another dish beside t.n 
entree. 

Rissoles— Minced meat or fish, rolled in thin 
pastry and fried. 

Rous — A mixture of flour and butter, or 
flour and lard, used as a foundation for 
sauces or as a foundation for stews, salmis, 
etc. 

Roti — A roast, 

Tarte — A pie. 

Tartelette— A tartlet. 

Sautsr— To smother and toss meats, fowl, 
vegetables, etc., over the flre in butter or 
fat. 

Savarln— A wine cake. 

Salmi — A rich stew of venison, duck or 
other game, cut ud and dressed generally 
with wine.' 

■Salmigondis — A hotch-potch of game, such 
as venison, etc. 

Saucissons de Lyons — Bologna Sausaj^e. 

Salade ' d'Anchois — Anchovy Salad. 

Souffle — An omelet, pudding or custard, 
thoroughly beaten and whipjed uo until it 
becomes so light that when cooked it must 
be eaten immediately, or else it will fall. 

Talmouse— A cheese cake. 

Tartine d'Anchois — Anchovy Tartines; circles 
of brown bread, spread with Anchovy Paste, 
yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs, choPPt*d 
flue, also chopped pickles, all arranged in 
alternate rows. 

Timbale — A pie cooked in a mold. In "Mac- 
aroni en Timbale ' the macaroni is cooked tn 
the cheese head. 

V inaigrette — A sauce or salad dressing, 
made of salt , and pepper, vinegar predomi- 
nating. 

Vol-au-Vent— A chicken, meat, fish or game 
pie, baked in a light Puft Paste, and serveJ 
as an entree. 

General Order of Service of Meals. 

The manner in which meals are 
served is equally important as the 
coolcing.' As previously remarked, 
the most elegant viands badly served 
lose all their savor, and the pleasure 
of a meal is destroyed, while the sim- 
plest viands neatly and properly 
served give an air of distinction and 
elegance, not to speak of comfort, 
to even the humblest feast. 

The spotless white tablecloth, the 
plainly folded napkins, the shining 
silverware and glassware, are im- 
portant factors in good service, and 
should receive the most minute at- 
tention from the housekeeper. Never, 
especially at formal dinings, crimp 
or fold napkins in fancy shapes; it is 
inelegant and vulgar. Lay them per- 
fectly flat and plain, and let every- 



thing present the most scrupulously 
clean appearance. In formal din- 
ings the layer plate should not be 
less than two inches larger than the 
service plate, and should not be re- 
moved until the salad has been 
served. 

In giving formal dinners or ban- 
quets a card corresponding with the 
name of the guest is placed on the 
napkin belonging to the seat to 
which he or she is to be assigned. 

Formal banquets or dinners, or 
state and ofiicial banquets all over 
the world are served according to the 
French fashion. This fashion di- 
vides the meal into three distinct 
parts. Two are served from the 
kitchen, and the third from the pan- 
try. The first part Is from the oys- 
ters on shell to the Coup de Millieu 
or middle drinks (sherbets, punches, 
etc.); the second service continues 
through the roasts to the sweet en- 
tremets. That which is considered 
the dessert course is served from the 
pantry, and includes all ices, cakes, 
fruits, cheese, etc. A cup of Cafe 
Noir is served at the close of all 
dinners or suppers. It is served 
daily after dinner in all Creole house- 
holds. 

Flower decorations on the table 
should always be in low cut bowls, 
and of flat designs, so as not to ob- 
scure the view of any guests. A 
simple bouquet of flowers , from the 
home garden, or a bit of greenery, 
should appear every day on the home 
table, and will brighten up a meal 
wonderfully. In formal feasts the 
corsage bouquets for ladies should 
not consist of more than six or eight 
large roses, if these flowers are used. 
The bouquets are tied with ribbon, 
and bear the name of the guests. 
They should be placed on the right 
side of the plate at the seat the lady 
is to occupy. A gentleman's bou- 
tonniere consists of one single rose- 
bud, if this flower is used. Otherwise 
of a small "boutonniere" arrange- 
ment, and this is placed on the nap- 
kin next to the card bearing his 
name. 

If Menus are used, they are placed 
on each cover. 

Liqueurs, cordials, cigars, etc., are 
placed on a separate table, and are 
served after the ladies have retired 
to the parlors. 

These suggestions will, serve for 
all formal entertainments. The fol- 
lowing them order and comfort will 
make the simplest meal a happy and 
pleasant one. 

BREAKFAST. 

Dejeuner. 

The home breakfast is generally' a 
modest repast consisting generally 
of such hors d'oeuvres as Cress, 
Radishes, etc., with some cereal 



378 



(served with milk), beefstealc or flsh, 
with potatoes, and numerous forms 
of breads or griddle cakes, waffles or 
muffins. 

In Creole households fruits are al- 
ways served first at breakfast, and 
generally raw. 

Cereals tor Breakfast, 

Grits, Hominy, Oatmeal, Cracked 
Wheat, Cornmeal Mush, Farina, Ce- 
realine, Wheatena, etc. All these 
may be servel with cream, milk, milk 
and sugar, or with gravies. 

Vegetables- for Breakfast, 

Radishes, Cress, Sliced Cucumbers, 
Lettuce, Sliced Raw Tomatoes, Cel- 
ery, Potatoes in any of the various 
forms of cooking given. Stewed To- 
matoes, Fried Sweet Potatoes, are 
all served at breakfast, the raw veg- 
etables as hors d'oeuvres. 

Warm Breakfast Dishes. 

Broiled Tenderloin, Sirloin, Broiled 
Chops, Chicken, Ham, Fish, Small 
Fancy Game, Quail on Toast, ^nipe. 
Woodcock, Fried Liver and Bacon, 
Fried Pork, Tenderloin or Chops, 
Fried Pigs' Feet, Grillades, Fried 
soft-Shell Crabs, Veal Cutlets 
Breaded, Sausage, Stewed Tripe, 
Stewed Kidneys, ■ all kinds Of Hash 
(turkey, chicken, mutton, veal, beef, 
cornbeef, or otherwise), all kinds of 
Meat, Fowl and Fish Croquettes, Cod- 
fish Balls, Creamed Codfish, Creamed 
Chicken, Stewed Meats, Eggs in every 
variety of cooking (such as boiled, 
fried, scrambled, poached, on toast), 
Fried Ham and Eggs, Omelets, etc. 
Breakfast Breads and Cakes. 

Any of the numberless varieties of 
Breads and Cakes, besides the Ba- 
kers' Bread, so generally used in 
New Orleans, such as Rolls, ' Biscuit, 
Muffins, Waffles, Corn Cakes, Griddle 
Cakes, Batter Cakes, Corn Bread, 
Muffln Bread, Sweet Potato Bread, 
Fritters, etc. 

Breakfast Beverages. 

Coffee (Cafe Noir and Cafe au Lait) 
Chocolate, Cocoa and Tea (if pre- 
ferred) may all be served as break- 
fast beverages. 

Hors d'Oeuvres for Breakfast, 

These include Celery, Olives, Rad- 
ishes, Cress, Pickles, Canapes, Sliced 
Cucumbers, Sliioed Raw Tomatoes, 
Lettuce, Raw Oysters (when in sea- 
son), and in general any hors 
doeuvres that may be served at 
dinner. 

LUNCHEON. 

Goflter. 

Perhaps no meal admits of such 
Infinite variety as' luncheon. Al- 
most anything may be served for 
luncheon, from cold left-over meats, 
flsh, etc., and all hors d'oeuvres and 



salads to desserts. Tea, coffee, co- 
coa, chocolate. Iced lemonade, and 
almost all iced summer drinks, as 
well as fruits, are served acceptably 
at luncheon. Hot or cold bread may 
be served, as also forms of break- 
fast cakes and syrups. 

The order of service varies. For 
instance, fruits may be served at the 
beginning of the meal, or as a des- 
sert at the close, and so also witb 
watermelons and muskmelons. 

DINNER. 

Diner. 

The order of service for dinner va- 
ries. In simple homes, where gener- 
ally only two or three courses are 
served, such as soups, meats and 
vegetables and dessert, these should 
be served in their order. The hors 
d'oeuvres, whether one, two or many, 
should always be placed on the table 
before the dinner proper is served. 
Soups or Gumbos are served first. 

The Creoles divide dinners into 
three classes: The dinner of one 
course, of two courses, and of three 
courses. The first they have appro- 
priately named "Ambigu," because it 
admits of all dishes being brought 
to the table at the same time, from 
the soups to the desserts, and dishes 
are confounded. Among wealthy 
■ classes, the "Ambigu" is a dinner 
served hastily at night, after a thea- 
tre or opera party, or otherwise, 
coming in from a soiree, but among 
the poorer classes the "Ambigu" is 
made a very pleasant meal. Hors 
d'oeuvres and such desserts as cakes 
and fruits are placed on the table 
'before the family is seated, and the 
soup is served as a "Releve," all the 
other Aishes, from the roasts to the 
entrees and entremets and entremets 
sucres and salad, being placed on 
the table at the same time. Jellies, 
fruits and cake compensate for the 
absence of elaborate desserts, and the 
vegetables anl sauces are few. Prop- 
erly served, as is done daily in many 
a Creole home, an "Ambigu" may 
become an elegant and distinguished 
repast, though the viands are plain 
and simple. 

In dinners of two courses the soup 
is again the "Releve," and the flsh or 
meats and all the vegetables, entre- 
mets and entrees, and also the salad, 
constitute the first course. Salads, 
as a rule, should always be served 
with the roasts. The desserts con- 
stitute the second course. 

In dinners of three courses, fol- 
lowing always the French order of 
arrangement, which has always been 
observed in elegant Creole homes, the 
following is the order of service: 

First Course — Soup or Gumbo, Hors 
d'Oeuvres. 

Second Course — Pish (and with fish 
are always served potatoes in any 



379 



form), Releves (where another dish 
Is desired). Entrees, Coup de Millieu 
(a middle iced drink), Ro;ls or 
Roasts, Vegetables, Entremets, Sal- 
ads, Entremets Sucres. 

Third Course — Desserts, Compotes, 
Puddings, Pies, Cakes, Pieces Mon— 
tees. Ices, Fruits, Petit Fours, 
Cheese, Coffee. 

Suitable Dlsbea for tbese Various 
Courses. 

The following constitutes the list 
of suitable dishes for these various 
Hots d'Oeuvres. 
Relishes. 

These inay be either hot or cold, 
but ordinarily only cold hors 
d'oeuvres are used, and are passed 
aS appetizers or relishes between the 
courses. ^ 

Cold Hors d'Oeuvres — ^Radishes, 
Celery, Olives, Cress, Lettuce, Ro- 
quette. Pickled Onions, Sliced Cucum- 
bers, Sliced Tomatoes, Pickles, Man- 
goes, Melons, Anchovies, Sardines, 
Lyonnaise Sausage (Saucissons Lyon- 
naise). Bread and Butter, Crackers, 
Anchovy Sandwiches, Bologna Sau- 
sage cut and sliced. Cold Ham, Pigs' 
Feet, a Crawfish Bush (Buissou 
d'Ecrevisses), a Shrimp Bush (Buis- 
son de Chevrettes), Boiled Crawfish, 
River Shrimp on Ice, Oysters on Half 
Shell, Raw -Oysters, Sliced or Quar- 
tered Lemon, Salted Almonds, Salted 
Peanuts, Canapes of Caviar, Ham, 
Crab, etc. 

Hot Hors d'Oeuvres — Petits Pates 
au Jus (or small hot patties of 
meats, etc.), Boudins Noirs et Blanos 
(Boudin Sausages, white and black). 
Rissoles, Sausages with or without 
Truffles, Rognons a. la Brochette or 
Broiled Kidneys, Pigs' Feet, BouchSes 
d'Huitres or Oyster Patties, Fried 
Brains (whether of mutton or veal). 
Calves' Feet, Oxtail with Vinegar or 
Mustard Sauce. 

Entrees. 

Entrges are side dishes, and are 
served between the courses, imme- 
diately following the flsh, and always 
preceding the roast. Entrees- com- 
prise all Stews, Ragoflts, Salmis, 
Matelotes, Vol-au-Vents, Cutlets, 
Sweetbreads, Rissoles, Compotes of 
Meats, Fowl or Pish, Filets of Veal 
or Beef Saute, etc.; all Daubes, 
whether of Meat, Fowl or Pigeons; 
Poulet au Biz, Poulet Saute aux 
Champignons ou aux Petits Pois. 
Relev6s. 

Releves are side dishes added to a 
course when it is desired to serve 
another dish. They comprise Filets 
of Beef or Veal, Boiled Meats served 
with garnish, Brochettes of Kidneys, 
Liver etc.; Capons and Poulardes 
cooked with Rice, Poulet au Riz, 
pates de Foles Gras, Loin of Veal, 



Knuckle of Veal, Sirloin Steak, etc.; 
Soft-Shell Crabs, Stuffed Crabs, etc. 

Ejutremets. 

These are of two kinds, Vegetable 
Entremets and Sweet Entremets. The 
former comprise all vegetables, and 
one or two are always served with an 
entrge, and the remainder are 
brought on with the roasts. Pota- 
toes are always served with flsh, and 
are good with all meats. With fowls 
they are best mashed. Sweet potaoes 
'are served with all roasts, especially 
Roast Pork. Onions, Squash, Cucum- 
bers, Asparagus, Eggplants are ex- 
cellent with roast meats. Carrots, 
Parsnips, Turnips, Pumpkin, Greens, 
Cabbage, are good with boiled meats. 
Corn, Green Peas, Beets, Peas, Beans, 
may be served with either boiled or 
roast meats. Mashed Turnips are 
very appropriate to Roast Duck, 
Roast Pork and Mutton, and boiled 
meats, such as Boiled Mutten. To- 
matoes and Green Peppers are served 
with every kind of meats. Green Peas 
are especially nice served with Young 
Spring Lamb, Sweetbreads, Filets of ' 
Veal or Beef, , Spring Chicken, etc. 
•Spinach is a very proper accompani- 
ment to veal. Lemons cut into dice 
inay be served with all fowls and 
fish. 

STveet Entremets. 

These comprise all kinds of Fritters 
or Beignets, various sweet Omelets, 
and Fruits cooked in divers man- 
ners. (See chapter on Sweet Entre- 
mets.) Fritters, etc., are served in 
the middle of the course, often just 
before the Coup de Millieu, with the 
entrees. Sweet Entremets such as 
Omelette Souffle, Rhum Omelette, etc., 
always precele the dessert, being 
served immediately after the roasts. 
Roasts. 

These comprise all manner of Boast 
Meats, Poultry, Game, etc. The Sal- 
ads are always brought to the table 
and served with the Roasts. 

Desserts. 

I 

These comprise all manner of Com- 
potes, Pies, Puddings, Cakes, Jellies 
and Marmalades, Preserves, Fruits, 
Ices, Petits Fours, Bonbons etc. 
Cheese and Nuts are brought to the 
table with the Desserts. Coffee is 
served as a finale to all dinners, 
banquets and supper,^. 

Important. 

After having analyzed the above 
forms 'of service and the accompani- 
ments of the various courses, a sen- 
sible woman will make her own de- 
ductions, remembering always that 
a. good soup, a roast or entree, with 
one or two vegetables and a salad, 
and a simple dessert, is enough for 
any family, even when guests are 



380 



expected. A well-served, simple din- 
ner is far more satisfying to the 
average person than the most elabo- 
rate banquet. 

Above all devote yonr' taste and 
Ingrenuity to devising appetizing 
dislies for your own loved ones at 
home. <'To Make Home Happy"^ 
tlii^ is the object of the Picayune 
Creole Cook Book. 

How to Utilize Left-Over Food. 

Never throw away scraps of bread 
or broken crusts or stale bread. Take 
all the broken pieces and brown them 
in the stove, and roll them on the 
bread board till grated fine, and sift 
through a coarse sieve. Again roll 
the crumbs that remain in the sieve, 
and sift as before. Put them all Into 
a jar and cover, and keep them for 
use- in cooking. A box of bread 
crumbs for dishes prepared "au Gra- 
tin" is indispensable in a kitchen. 

Licft-over stale bread is also used' 
In making Bread Puddings, Bread 
Muffins, Queen Pudding etc. 

Use all broken pieces of cakes In 
making puddings, such as Banana 
Souffle, and all Cake Puddings. 

All cold left-over mashed potatoes 
may be used for making Croquettes 
or Puffs or Quenelles of Potatoes. 
Cold boiled potatoes left over may be 
utilized in preparing Lyonnaise Pota- 
toes or French Fried Potatoes. 

Left-over Greens may be used in 
making Salads.' Left-over fish and 
chicken may be used in making Fish 
or Chicken Salad a, la Mayonnaise. 

Left-over meat, whether veal, mut- 
ton or beef, may be used in making 
Hash Croquettes of Boulettes. 

Save all fat drippings and bits of 
fat meat and bacon skin. The former 
are excellent for frying fritters and 
doughnuts and pancakes; the latter 
for greasing the griddle for corn 
cakes, etc. 

Keep all coarse, rough ends of 
beefsteak or sirloin, or the ends of 
tenderloin steaks. They make ex- 
cellent stews or croquettes of meat 
balls. 

The remains of yesterday's roast 
beef or mutton may be utilized in 
croquettes for breakfast, or cecils or 
cold meat for luncheon. 

Remains of turkey or chicken or 
rabbit may be used in making Gum- 
bos. 

Save all left-over rice for Riz au 
Lait, griddle cakes, Galas, Jambalaya, 
etc. 

All left-over cold boiled meat from 
soup may be used for Beef Hash. 

"When you have finished with the 
ham bone, do not throw it away, but 
after chipping all the meat off for 
"Frizzled Ham," boil the bone with 
cabbage or turnip or other vege- 
table greens, or with red or white 
beans or lentils. It gives a flavor 



to these dishes that they will not 
otherwise have. 

Keep all the green parts of the 
Celery tips that do not make a beau- 
tiful decoration at the table when 
celery is served and use for flavoring 
for soups, salads, stews, etc. 

Turnips and beans left over from 
yesterday may be made' into a puree 
for dinner next day. 

Keep all pieces of Plain or Puft 
Paste that are trimmed from the pies 
or patties. Roll them over again, cut 
into pretty squares, and serve at 
supper with preserves spread over 
them. Or simply put in the ice box 
and use the next day in making 
Rissoles with left-over meat. 

When making Gold Cake, save the 
whites of eggs for Silver Cake. Or 
they may be used for making Angel 
Cake, Apple Snow, and all other 
forms of desserts in which Meringues 
are called for. 

Finally, do not waste anything in 
the kitchen. Our grandmothers scrup- 
ulously saved every piece of bone or 
fat apd these were utilized in mak- 
ing soft soap. 

The careful housekeeper will man- 
age to keep out of debt and set a 
good table, with much variety, on a 
small allowance, by faithfully sav- 
ing and utilizing the left-overs. 

Invalid Cookery. 

It has not been thought necessary 
to add a chapter on "Invalid Cook- 
ery" in this book, as all Creoles know 
how to prepare dainty articles of 
diet for the sick. Invalid cookery, 
moreover, does not differ much from 
the general household codkery, and 
all recipes given in this book for 
Bouillons, Oyster Soups, delicate 
Purges, Chicken Broth, Toasts, 
Broiled Chicken and Birds, Broiled 
Tenderloin Steak, delicate Custards, 
such as Milk Custards, Riz au Lait, 
Blanc Manger, Jellies, Gruels, Por- 
ridge, Egg Toasts, Fjuit Wlaters, 
Mint Julips, Cobblers, Egg Nogg, 
Blackberry Cordials, etc:; delicate 
ways of serving oranges and other 
fruits — in fact, almost anything that 
may be ordered by a physician, from 
a Beef Broth or Oyster Soup to Milk 
Toast or Charlotte Russe may be 
found in the Picayune's Creole Cook 
Book. Reference has only to be made 
to the index, and with a slight re- 
duction of quantity in all propor- 
tions, say about one-fourth, for a 
dish intended for one person, where 
Custards, etc., are indicated, the dish 
may be prepared. 

The serving is the most Important 
point after cooking. Never crowd 
a dish intended for an invalid. 
Spread a dainty napkin on the sal- 
ver. Arrange the food in a most ap- 
petizing way, lay a rosebud or a 
flower fresh from the garden on the 



381 



salver, and bring in the dainty, 
tempting- morsel with a happy, cheery 
smile, though your heart may be 
sinking. Th-e dish, in nine oases out 
of ten, will not fail to please, white 
your sunny smile will encourage the 
patient, and make him or her feel 
that recovery is certain. Then the 
battle is half won. 

KITCHEN HINTS. 

The most Important essential in 
regard to the economy and manage- 
ment of the kitchen is cleanliness — - 
cleanliness in cooking, cleanliness in 
the keeping of the kitchen, from the 
clean floor to the pots and pans, and 
absolute cleanliness of person. It is 
to be feared that while many pay 
great attention to the two former 
requisites, the latter Is too often 
neglected. The slovenly, untidy, un- 
kempt cook has no place in a well- 
regulated kitchen, where, from earli- 
est Creole days, the clean, tidy, old 
negresse, with neat guinea blue dress, 
white kerchief and bandana tignon, 
pots and pans washed so clean in- 
side that you might pass your white 
gloved hand over them without a 
trace of soot or dirt attaching itself; 
brightly polished stove, and dish 
towels clean and spotless, is among 
the pleasant traditions that have, 
with modifications to times and 
events as regards domestic service, 
been accepted as a foundation rule 
in kitchen management and govern- 
ment. 

The hands of a cook should be thor- 
oughly washed before touching or 
handling anything that pertains in 
the least to the preparation of any 
dish. Never allow a number of dish- 
pans, basins and piles of plates, 
spoons and other utensils to accu- 
mulate on the kitchen table or sink 
while you are engaged in cooking a 
meal. Do not let pans of dirty dish 
water, filled with kitchen refuse and 
grease so thick that it may 
be skimmed off, stand upon your 
kitchen table. By a little Intelligent 
and careful management, a little care 
in cleansing and putting away a pan, 
dish or cup the moment that you 
have finished using it, a great deal 
of confusion and extra work may be 
avoided. When you finish with your 
rolling pin, flour pan, biscuit or paste 
board, go to the kitchen sink at once 
wash them off before the flour be- 
comes too thick and hard to remove, 
and wipe dry and put them away in 
their proper places till wanted again. 
When you finish with your sauce- 
pans, gravy kettles, roasting pans, 
etc., fill them at once with hot water, 
let them stand a minute or so on the 
stove; then wash immediately, and 
dry thoroughly. Set them before the 
fire another minute or so, so that the 
interiors may be thoroughly dried 



before putting them away, and then 
put these also in' their proper places. 
Never allow a dirty pot to remain 
over from one day to the next, cov- 
ering it out of sight till it is again 
wanted. Such slovenly methods can- 
not be too strongly condemned. 

Don't be afraid of not water. Have 
your reservoir constantly filled, and 
your kettle always steaming when 
cooking. Use hot water freely in 
washing up all kitchen utensils, in 
which grease must accumulate while 
cooking, and all dirty, greasy dishes. 
Wash your cooking utensils, iron and 
agateware, and tin, inside and out, 
with hot water and soap; then rinse 
thoroughly in hot water, wipe them 
dry with a dry,clean towel. Never, 
on any account, wipe a pot with a 
soapy (5r a greasy dish cloth. 

Keep a cake of good kitchen soap 
in your kitchen, and use it freely in 
the cleansing of all pots or tins 
that require scouring. To remove 
the odor of onions from fish kettles 
and saucepans, put some wood ashes 
or soda in them, let stand on the 
stove a few minutes, till they boil, 
and wash in hot suds and rinse well. 
In washing up the dishes, begin 
with the glasses. Wash these in 
clean water, using a few drops of 
ammonia, and you will be surprised 
what a beautiful clear cut-glass look 
will be imparted to even the cheapest 
glassware. Dry with a clean towel 
and rub lightly inside and out with a 
pi'ece of paper. A beautiful, clear 
polish will thus be given. Nothing 
is so disgusting as a dingy glass. Let 
your crystal and glassware be as 
clear as a mirror. 

Wash the cups and saucers next, 
and rinse and dry. Never let your 
dishes "drip," as is frequently done 
in many kitchens. Dishes that have 
been placed in a sink or pan to "drip" 
before being dried are always dis- 
agreeable to the touch, no matter 
how clean you may have washed 
them. An experienced housekeeper 
can tell in a moment, simply by 
touching a dish, whether it has been 
allowed to drip or was dried as soon 
as washed. 

Don't be afraid of using soap, but 
remember, too, to rinse thoroughly 
after using. Cut bar soap into pieces, 
and keep in a dry place. Use one 
piece at a time, and thus avoid waste. 
Wash greasy plates, dishes etc., 
with cleap hot water and soap. Rinse 
thoroughly in clean hot water, and 
dry immediately on a cleS.n, dry 
towel.' 

Wash silverware in clean hot wa- 
ter. Never put your forks and spoons 
into greasy, dirty water, in which 
you have already washed the dishes. 
Have a clean, fresh supply of hot 
■ni-ater. Wash well, using soap freely 
where necessary, and then rinse In 



382 



■ clean, hot water. A little salt will 
remove all stains from silver. Apply 
with a dry cloth. Dry silverware im- 
mediately after washing on a clean, 
dry towel. 

Never throw white-handled Ivory 
knives into water. Wash the steel 
part in hot water. To remove stains 
and also to polish, rub with a little 
dry wood ashes or a small quantity 
of baking powder, mixed with a little 
briokdust. Have a sufficient quan- 
tity of dish towels. It pays In the 
long run, not only in kitchen econ- 
omy, but in the cleanliness of the 
kitchen and dining-room and the 
consequent good health of the fam- 
ily. Have a set of towels for the 

, glassware, and mark these "Glass." 
In like manner for the cups and 
saucers and plates. Mark kitchen 
use, for pots and pans, and never 
use these on any account in wash- 

• Ing or drying dishes intended for 
table use. 

When you have finished washing 
the glassware, dishes, and pots and 
pans, wash the towels well in sep- 
arate waters, using hot water and 
soap, and then rinse thoroughly in 
hot water first, and then in cold or 
tepid water. On no account, unless 
in rainy weather, hang ithem around 
the kitchen stove to dry, but hang 
them out in the fresh, open air, 
where the sun can shine upon them, 
and when they are thoroughly dry 
fold and put them aw^ay for use just 
as carefully as you would your toilet 
towels. In this way you will keep 
your kitchen towels clean, sweet and 
fresh. 

Water that passes through zinc- 
lined iron pipes should never be used 
for cooking or drinking purposes, 
and water boiled in galvanized iron 
pots should never be used in cooking, 
as it becomes poisonous. Keep a 
good supply of fresh hot water in 
your kettles while cooking, and if 
taken from pipes always use that 
taken from hot water pipes. Never 
use water that has stood in a lead 
pipe over night for any purposes, es- 
pecially a stone reservoir. There is 
art even in, boiling water, and fresh- 
ly-boiled water should always be 
used in cooking. 

When using canned goods, never 

allow vegetables, fish or fruits to 

stand in the can when once the can 

is opened. 

Do not keep vinegar or yeast In 



any but glass Jars or bottles. Their 
acid attacks the glaze in stone crooks 
and jars, and becomes poisonous. 

Never let meat stand in brown pa- 
per. "It will absorb the taste of the 
paper. 

Remember that salt will curdle 
new milk. Hence, In all dishes where 
new milk is used, add the salt after 
the dish is prepared. 

Provide your kitchen with a clock. 
This is almost imperative. And, in 
addition to the regular supplies of 
pots which come with every stove, 
have a double kettle for cooking 
custards, grains, etc.; a double wire 
broiler, a wire toaster, a tin skim- 
mer, a wooden spoon for beating 
dakes, a meat board, a biscuit board, 
a dozen patty pans and tartlet pans, 
a set of tin measures, two dish pans, 
one for washing the dishes, the other 
to rinse them in; a set of jelly cake 
tins, three or four pie pans, a can 
opener, a chopping knife, a wooden 
chopping bowl, two dippers, two fun- 
nels, one for sw^eets, and one for 
sour liquids; a lemon squeezer, a 
whisk brush for greasing griddles, a 
large flour box, a dredging- box, a 
large-sized pepper box, a spice box 
in which you can put smaller spice 
boxes, a potato masher, a, steamer, 
several kitchen knives, an apple 
corer, a set of tin pans and basins, 
and four or five stone jars. Do not 
buy low-priced earthenware, that 
will soon break; it pays in the end to 
get strong stoneware, costing a few 
cents more, for it will last' for a 
lifetime. 

All these conveniences purchased 
by the young housekeeper when set- 
ting out in life will last for years, 
with, careful management, and will 
be found economical investments, as 
regards time, money and convenience, 
and kitchen comfort. 

Remember to always keep your 
good temper In the kitchen. There 
is nothing like a bright, cheery, sun- 
ny-tempered housekeeper or cook. 
If you employ servants, never lose 
your temper In dealing with them. 
You will at once forfeit their re- 
spect. A surly, cross, ill-tempered, 
fault-finding mistress will make a 
cross, ill-tempered dissatisfied serv- 
ant. 

Let the Golden Rule be your guide 
in dealing with your servants, "Do 
unto others as you would have others 
do unto you." 



CHAPTER XLIX. 



VARIETIES OF SEASONABLE FOODS FOUND IN THE NEW ORLEANS 
MARKET DURING THE YEAR. 



How often is the complaint lieard 
from the busy, tired housekeeper: 
"My husband and . children are so 
tired of eating the same things, day 
in and day out; I really do not know 
what to give them for a change in 
diet!" 

This is a complaint that should 
never be heard in the latitude of 
New Orleans, where nature is so pro- 
lific; where at all seasons of the year 
some dainty bit of game, poultry or 
meat is to be had at wonderfully low 
pricesi whete dur rivers and lakes 
are stocked with the finest fish from 
January to December, and where our 
spring and autumn crops of vege- 
tables and fruits, the former running 
all through the summer, the latter to 
the verge of the succeeding spring, 
make it possible for even the poor- 
■ est family to enjoy Variety and del- 
icacy of viands at each daily meal. 

The Creoles have an old'adage that 
"Nature itself tells us what to eat," 
in the various vegetables and fruits 
of each season, and in the varieties 
of fish and flesh meat that are par- 
ticularly adapted to each season. As 
the months , wane, and a new sea- 
son dawns, the good Creole house- 
keeper, even of unlimited means, far 
from trusting entirely to servants 
to do the marketing, makes it her 
■duty to take a leisurely stroll. 
through the French Market, where 
all the first fruits, vegetables, fish 
and game of the season are to be 
found, and she takes her own mental 
notes, and knows just what to order 
-when her • cook comes for the daily 
interview. Again, many of the most 
famous housekeepers do their own 
marketing entirely, and it is not an 
uncommon thing- to see Madame or 
Mademoiselle going to market every 
morning, followed by some faithful 
old domestic who may still adhere to 
the fortunes of the family. 

' For the conyenience of housekeep- . 
«rs generally,, however, the Picayune 
will close this Creole Cook Book by 
giving for each month in the year 
the varieties of seasonable foods to 
■be found in our latitude. By a sim- 
ple daily reference to this list, the, 
housewife .may at once make her, 
selections for the daily menu. With 



slight modifications incident to cli- 
mate and productions, the list may b«» 
useful in any latitude. A^ain. to 
facilitate the choice of the house- 
keeper as to viands, a daily menu is 
given for one week, as also for great 
festivals, such as Christmas, New 
Year's, Easter and Thanksgiving Days 

Ttto sets of tbese menus are 
given. The one Is Intended for 

tainilies fvko are not obligred to ex- 
ercise rigid economy in household 
management; the other for families 
of limited means, shofring hovr it 
is quite possihle for a family of six 
to live comfortably on a dollar a day, 
and at the same time enjoy as pleas- 
ing a' variety, in a vray, as wealth- 
ier people* 

These classifications will enable 
even the most inexperienced house- 
keeper, whether rich or poor, to make 
her own deductions in a clear' and 
comprehensive manner, with benefit 
to herself and family. 

Seasonable Foods From January to 
December. 

JANUARY. 

Meats. 

Des Viandes. 

Beef, Mutton, Pork, -Damb. 
Poultry. 

De la Volaille. 
Turkey, Chicken, Capons, Geese, 
Domestic Ducks, Pigeons, Guinea 
Fowl. 

Game. < 

Gibier. 
All Game peculiar to January. 
Canvasback Ducks, Mallard Ducks, 
Squab, Becassine or Snipe, Becasse or 
Woodcock, Partridge, Quail, Venison, 
and a variety of small birds. Rabbit, 
Hare, Squirrel and Poule d'BaU. 

Fish. 

Poisson.. 

Red Fish, Red Snapper, Flounder, 
Sheeilshead, ' Spanish Maclcerel, Pom- 
pano. Grouper, Green Trout, Elver 
Trout, Speckled Trout, Croakers, 
Bluefish, , Sacalait, , Patassas, Greien 
Turtle, Diamond Back Terrapin, 



384 



Frogs, Oysters, Hard-Shell Crab, 
Soft-Shell Crab, Ijake Shrimp, River 
Shrimp, Crawfish. 

Vesetables. 

Des Legumes. 

Fresh Vegetables may be had as 
follows: Beets, Cabbage, Carrots, 
Chervil, Celery, Cress, Corn Salad, 
Cauliflower, Endive or Chicoree, 
Spinach, Salsify, Sorrel, Lettuce, Par- 
sley, Parsnips, Radish, Roquette for 
salad. Mustard for salad. Turnips, 
Leeks and Rutabaga. 

These are sown from August to 
December in the open ground, and 
are perfectly hardy in ordinary win- 
ters, such as we are accustomed to 
in Louisiana. Cucumber grown under 
glass, and sown in the beginning of 
October ripens about Christmas time, 
and continues to supply the home 
market, as well as the demands from 
Northern points, until about the end 
of April, when our open-ground Cu- 
cumbers begin to ripen and appear 
In the market. 

Fruits. 
Des Fruits. 

Fresh fruits: Bananas, Pears, Ap- 
ples, Oranges, Grapes, Lemons, Pine- 
apples, Cherries, Cranberries. 

FEBRUARY. 

Meats. 

Des Viandes. 
Beef, Mutton, Pork, Lamb. 
Poultry. 
De la Volaille. 

Turkey, Capons, Chickens, Guinea 
Fowl, Geese, Domestic Ducks and 
pigeons. 

Game. 
Gibier. 

Canvasback Ducks, Mallard Ducks, 
Teal Duck, Squab, Becassine or Snipe, 
Becasse or "Woodcock, Partridge, 
Quail, "Wild Turkey, "Wild Geese, Rab- 
bit, Hare, Squirrel, Poule d'Eau, 
"Venison. 

Fish. 

Polsson. 

Red Fish, Red Snapper, Flounder, 
Spanish Mackerel, Sheepshead, Green 
Trout, Speckled Trout, Croakers, 
Blueflsh, Green Turtle, Diamond- 
Back Terrapin, Frogs, Oysters, Hard- 
Shell Crab, Soft-Shell Crab, Lake 
Shrimp, River Shrimp, Crawfish. 

Vegetables. 

Des Legumes. 

Beets, Carrots, Cabbage, Chervil, 

Celery, Cress, Cornsalad, Cauliflower, 

Endive or Chicoree, Spinach, Salsify, 

Sorrel, Lettuce, Parsley, Parsnips, 



Radish, Roquette, Mustard, Turnips, 
Leeks, Rutabaga. 

Fruits. 

Des Fruits. 

Bananas Pears, Apples, Oranges, 
Grapes, Lemons, Pineapples, Cran- 
berries. 

MARCH. 

Meats. 

Des Viandes. 

Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork. 

poultry. 

De la Volaille. 

Turkeys, Ducks and Pigeons (do- 
mestic). Geese, Chickens, Capons, 
Young Pullets. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

All the game common to February. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 

The first Pompano of the season 
used to appear in March. It was much 
sought after. Of late years it has 
become so abundant that it is now 
shipped during every month of the 
'year to every part of the Union. In 
February we have also Redfish, Red 
Snapper, Spanish Mackerel, Floun- 
ders, Trout, Croakers, Blueflsh, Grou- 
per, Saccalait, Patassas, Sheepshead, 
Perch, Hard-Shell Crab, Soft-Shell 
Crab, Oysters, Green Turtle, Terra- 
pin, Lake and River Shrimp, Craw- 
fish. 

Vegretables. 

Des Legumes. 

AU the above-mentioned Vegetables 
for February are to be found in the 
market in March, with the addition 
of Green Peas. The large Marrow- 
fat Green Peas are hardy, and are 
planted from October to the end of 
March, while the little French Pea 
(Petit Pols) is more subject to dam- 
age from freeze, and is planted dur- 
ing January, and until April, , ripen- 
ing a crop in from forty to sixty 
days, according to weather and cul- 
tivation. 

The vegetables for the month stand 
as follows: New Green Peas, Beets, 
Cabbage, Carrots, Chervil, Celery, 
Cress, Cornsalad, Cauliflower, En- 
dive, Spinach, Salsify, Sorrel, Lettuce, 
Parsley, Parsnips, Roquette, Mus- 
tard, Turnips, Leeks, Rutabaga. 

Fruits. 

Des Fruits. 

The first Strawberries appear early 
in March, and have been ripened at 
the end of February, when the blos- 
som escapes the freezes that begin 
regularly In February. Oranges,. 



385 



Bananas, Pineapples, etc., are plenti- 
ful. 

APRIL. 
Meats. 

Des "Viandes. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Pork, Lamb, 
Spring Lamb. (This is Lamb born 
during the winter and reared under 
shelter, and fed almost entirely on 
milk. It is killed in the spring, gen- 
erally at Easter time, and is a regu- 
lar accompaniment to the Creole Eas- 
ter dinner. It Is a great delicacy, 
but Lamb that is not over six months 
old makes good eating.) 

Poultry. 

De la Volaille. 
Chicken, Young Guinea Fowl, Green 
Geese, Young Ducks, Capons. 

Fish. 

Polsson. 

Pompano, Spanish Mackerel, Red 
Snapper, Redfish, Blueflsh, Grouper, 
Sea Trout, Brook Trout, Croakers, 
Perch, Sacalait, Patassas, Green Tur- 
tle, Progs' Legs, Hard- Shell Crab, 
Soft-Shell Crab, Poule d'Eau. 

Oysters begin to grow milky In the 
latter part of April, when kept stand- 
ing for any length of time, and are, 
consequently, not eaten by the Cre- 
oles, unless they are at the lakeside, 
where the toothsome bivalve is taken 
directly frOm the waters. Prom April 
till September, following the old 
adage that Oysters are good in every 
mouth In which an "B." occurs, the 
Oysters will disappear from this list 
of seasonable flsh. Nevertheless, In 
nearly all the large restaurants of 
New Orleans they are served. 

Game, 

Gibier. 

Mallard Ducks, Canvasback Ducks, 
Spring Teal Ducks, Squabs, Snipe, 
Woodcock, Partridge. 

Vegetables. 
Des Legumes. 

This is a most interesting month in 
the New Orleans markets. We have 
all the staple articles from the open 
ground, but. besides Green (sweet) 
Peppers, Tomatoes and Eggplants, 
sown in November, and kept, under 
glass until late in March, make their, 
appearance in the market. The gen- 
eral crop of Green Peas is now in the 
market, and within the range of 
everybody's purse. New Potatoes are 
quite plentiful. Snap Beans are grad- 
ually getting cheaper, and thousands 
of bushel boxes go by express every 
day to Northern points. Early Corn 
and Artichokes, from the Lower Coast 
of Louisiana, arrive with every boat. 
The market stands: New Potatoes, 
New Green Peas, Early Corn, Sweet 



Green Peppers, New Tomatoes, Egg- 
plants, Hot Peppers, Snap Beans, and 
all the vegetables mentioned' in the 
list for March. (See March Vege- 
tables. 

Fruits. 

Des Pruits. 

The Japan Plum, also called the 
Medlar, or Loquet, and in familiar 
'Creole Mespilus, ripens in the be- 
ginning of April, while the Mariana 
Plum comes in towards the 15th of 
April, if the weather is favorable. 
Strawberries are now plentiful and 
cheap. Dewberries and Blackber- 
'ries are brought in by the negroes in 
■large quantities, and the cry fills the 
streets. We have also a continued 
abundance of Apples, Oranges, Ba- 
nanas, Pineapples, etc. 

MAY. 
Meats. 

Des Viandes. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork.' 

' Poultry. 

' De la Volaille. 

Spring Chickens, Young Ducks, 
Chickens, Capons, Green Geese, Young 
Turkeys (Dindonneau, considered a 
great delicacy). 

Fish. 

Poisson. 
The same as for the month of 
April. 

Vegetables. 
Des Legumes. 

During the month of May the New 
Orleans markets are fairly glutted 
With Snap Beans, Green Peas, Peas, 
Lentils, Cucumbers, Young Onions, 
Potatoes, etc. Tomatoes and Egg- 
-plants that have ripened in the open 
ground fill the stalls. Cabbage, which 
does not resist much heat or drought, 
grows scarce, as also celery. Other- 
wise the vegetables continue in 
abundance, the same as found in the 
list for March. (See March Vege- 
tables). 

Young Squash makes Its appear- 
&,nce this month, and is plentiful. The 
first Muskmelons arrive in New Or- 
leans from the parishes and gardens 
around the city towards the middle 
bt May, and Watermelons come in 
fine and tempting at the close of May, 
Carloads of Creole Onions and New 
Potatoes are shipped North. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

The game laws now begin to be 
enforced, and, with the exception of 
'Sand Snipe and Reed Birds, we have 
little game until the 1st of Septem- 
ber, when the hunting season opens. 



386 



Frnlts. 

Des Fruits. 
The first peaches ripen together 
with the large-fruited Plums. In a. 
■week or so these fruits overrun the 
market. Figs begin to ripen towards 
the. end of the month, providing, the 
weather was warm during April. Or- 
anges, Bananas, Pineapples, etc., con- 
tinue plentiful. 

JUNE. 
Meats. 
Des Viandes. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, X<amb. Pork 
.Is eschewed In New Orleans from 
June to the beginning of October and 
November, as, from hygienic princi- 
ples, it should never be eaten in 
warm weather. 

Poultry. 
pe la VolalUe. 
•Spring Chickens, Chickens', Geese, 
Young Turkeys, Pigeons. 
Game. 
Gibier. 
The famous Palbabotte makes its 
appearance this month, and remains 
a delightful article of food till the 
middle of October. In the months of 
August and September they are very 
fat and excellent and a game much 
• prized by epicures and connoisseurs. 
Reed Birds, Grassets, Robins, , Larks, 
which are the terror of the rice 
planters, appear in abundance, and 
overrun the market. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 
The same as for the month of 
April. 

Vegetables. 

Des Legumes. 

Melons are gradually gaining the 
first place in the market, and are 
shipped to all points. Peas are be- 
ginning to get scarce. Celery is now 
supplied by the Northern markets 
and is found in abundance. Butter- 
beans and Lima Beans appear in the 
market, and are in great demand, es- 
pecially the Butterbeans. The mar- 
ket stands: Butterbeans, Snap Beans, 
Green Peas, Celery, Lima Beans, 
Beets, Carrots, Chervil, Cress, Corn- 
sajad, Cauliflower, Corn, Endive, 
Spinach, Salsify, Sorrel, Lettuce, 
Parsley, Parsnips, Radish, Roquette, 
Mustard, Turnips, Leeks and Ruta- 
baga. 

Fmlts, 
Des Fruits. 

Peaches and Plums arrive in large 
quantities. The Lecomte Pears and 
Grapes ripen quickly under the hot 



rays of the June sun, and are soon 
within reach of everyone's purse. 
Figs are plentiful, ■ and are being 
bought up by the canning establish- 
ments, but almost all the ancient 
homes of New Orleans have fig trees 
in their gardens or yards, and the 
luscious tropical fruit is within the 
reach of all. Strawberries, Black- 
berries, Dewberries, Bananas, Or- 
anges, Pineapples, Muskmelons, 
Cantaloupes, Watermelons, which 
may be properly classed under the 
heading of fruits, because they are 
eaten as such for desserts in New 
Orleans, are everywhere in abun- 
dance. 

JULY. 
Meats. 
Des Viandes. 
Beef, Mutton, Larrib, Veal. 
Poultry. 
De la VolalUe. 
Chickens, Young Geese, Spring 
Chickens, Pigeons. 

Game. 
Gibier. 
Pababotte, Reed Birds, Grassets, 
Robins, Larks, Quail. 

Fisb. 

Poisson. 

The same supplies as for the month 
of April. (See April Fish.) 

Vegetables. 

Des Legumes. 

To use the familiar saying of the 
New Orleans dealers, "The "Water- 
melon is now the boss of the market." 
It is placed ori ice and eaten at any 
hour of the d.ay, being most cooling 
and refreshing. Vegetables produced 
with much hard work cannot now 
compete with the popularity of the 
Watermelon, which is a favorite with 
all classes, and is put on the market 
in such enormous quantities that they 
are almost given away. Carloads ar- 
rive each day from the parishes and 
from the truck farms around New 
Orleans, and they are bought up as 
fast as offered. One famous speci- 
men, recently called the "Triumph," 
weighing from ninety to one hundred 
pounds, was found to be as sweet as 
honey. Other vegetables are the 
same as In June. (See June.) 

Fruits. 

Des Fruits. 

Pears, Grapes and Peaches continue 
In abundance. The Fig Is everywhere, 
and Strawberries, Blackberries, Or- 
anges and Pineapples are cheap. Lem- 
ons are in great demand, the Creoles 
using' large quantities of this ootfl- 



387 



Ing Iced Lemonade all during the 
summer months. 

AUGUST. 
Meats. 

Des Viandes. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb. 

Poultry, 

De la Volau'le. 

Chicken, Young Geese, Young 
Guinea Fowl, Pigeons. 

Game, 

• Gibier. 
Pababotte, Reed Birds, Grassets, 
Robins, Larks, ^quab. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 

The same supplies as for the month 
of June. (See June Fish.) 

Vegetables. 

Des Legumes. 

Snap Beans, Peas, Eggplant, 
Squash, Oucumber, . Corn, Lettuce, 
Carrots, Beets, Parsnips, Spinach, 
Potatoes, Tomatoes, Butterbeans, 
Lima Beans, Onions, Shallots, Green 
Peppers, Broccoli, Cauliflower. 

August Is the poorest of all months 
for vegetables. The Snap Beans be- 
gin to get hard and stringy; and the 

■ 'lettuce soft under the rays of the 

■ sun. But people are quite content. 
Melons continue in abundance, and 
the markets are stocked with fruits, 
so grateful in our clime, and all 
know that in a month there will be 

' a new crop of autumn, vegetables. 

Fruits, 

Des Fruits. 

Peaches, Pears, Plums, Grapes, 
Pigs, Mespilus, Oranges, Bananas, 
Pineapples, Lemons, Grape Fruit, are 
all in abundance. 

SEPTEMBER, 
Meats. 

Des Viandes. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb. 

Poultry. 

De la Volaille. 

Spring Chicken, Young Turkeys, 
Geese, Guinea Fowl, Pigeons, Domes- 
tic Ducks. 

' Game. 

Gibier. 

Woodcock, Snipe, Larks, Wild 
Ducks, Canvasback Ducks, Par- 
tridges, Quail, Squab, Mallard Ducks, 
and Teal Ducks are rare. 



Fish. 

Poisson. 

Pompano, Red Snapper, Redflsh, 
Spanish Mackerel, Flounder, Grouper, 
Bluefish, Sheepshead, Trout, Croak- 
ers, Green Turtle, Terrapin, Progs, 
Hard-Shell Crab, Soft-Shell Crab, 
Lake Shrimp, River Shrimp, Craw- 
fish. The Oyster is with us again, 
and remains a, delightful article of 
food till the latter part of April. 

Vegetables. 

Des L6gumes. 

Potatoes, Turnips, Artichokes, 
Peas, Beans, Carrots, Onions, Toma- 
toes, Salsify,, Mushrooms. Lettuce, 
Sorrel, Celery, Brussels Sprouts, 
Cauliflower, Sweet Potatoes, Squash, 
Eggplant, Cucumber, Green Pepper, 
Parsnips, Cress. 

Fruits. 

Des Fruits. 

Fruits throughout September' con- 
tinue the same as in' August, with 
'still more generous supplies of Or- 
anges, Bananas and Pineapples. 

OCTOBER. 
Meats. 

Des Viandes. 

Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork. 
Poultry. 

De la Volaille. 
Turkey, Chicken, Spring Chicken, 
Geese, Guinea Fowl,- Domestic Duck. 
Pigeons. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

Venison, Canvasback Duck, Wood- 
cook, Snipe, Partridge,: Quail, Reed 
Birds, Larks, Grassets, Robins, 
Squab. Mallard and Teal Ducks 
continue to be rare till November. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 

Pompano, Red Snapper, Redflsh, 
Spanish Mackerel, Sheepshead, 

Flounder, Grouper, Bluefish, Trout, 
Croakers, Green Turtle, " Terrapin, 
Poule d'Bau, Frogs, Hard-Shell Crab, 
Soft-Shell Crab, Lake and River 
Shrimp, Crawfish, Oysters. 

Vegetables. 

Des Legumes. 

Snap Beans and Green Corn sown 
in the end of August and early in 
September, are with us again In 
abundance. Radishes are juicy and 
brittle. Turnips are young and ten- 
der, and appear on time, to Servo 
with "Salmi of Wild Ducks." Blood 
Beets and Young .Carrots add to the 
assortment of vegeta.bles, . which 
gradually increases and assumes' the 



388 



diversity of the crops of the early 
spring. All the vegetables that are 
found under the lists for March and 
April are again with us in October. 
(See lists for March and April.) 

Fruits. 

Des Fruits. 

The first Louisiana Oranges from 
the spring budding appear in the 
niarket this month, the Creole and 
the Satsumas being the first to 
ripen. Other fruits are Peaches, 
Pears, Plums, Grapes, Oranges,' Ba- 
nanas, Pineapples and some late 
Figs. 

NOVEMBER, 

Meats. 

Des Viandes. 

Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork. 

Poultry. 

De la Volaille. 

Turkey, Chickens. Spring Chick- 
ens, Domestic Ducks and Pigeons, 
and Pigeons. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

Canvasback Ducks, Wild Ducks of 
many varieties, Woodcook, Snipe, 
Partridges, Robins, Larks, Reed 
Birds, Quail, Rabbits, Hares, Squir- 
rel, Venison. Teal Ducks and Mal- 
lard Ducks are abundant. Poule 
d'Bau appears in November. 

Fisb. 

Poisson. 

All the varieties found under the 
list for October, hold good for No- 
vember. (See list for October.) 

Vegetables. 

Des Legumes. 

The m.arket is now splendid with 
a variety of vegetables, principally 
Snap Beans, New Corn, Butterbeans, 
Beets, Cabbage, Carrots. Chervil, 
Celery, Cress, Cornsalad, Cauliflower 
Endive, Spinach, Salsify, Sorrel, Let- 
tuce, Parsley, Parsnips, Roquette, 
Mustard. Turnips, Leeks, Rutabaga, ■ 
Brocoli. 

In new vegetables we have now 
the second crop of New Potatoes, 
that were planted by the farmers in 
August. The Crooked-necked Pump- 
kin, or Cashaw, is with us, and is 
in' demand, as also the Globe Pump- 
kin. The Sweet Potatoes continue 
to arrive in abundance. The first 
New Cabbage reaches the market, j.3 
also New Lettuce, Spinach, Turnips, 
Kohlrabi, so much eaten by the 
Italian population; and other vege- 
tables are most plentiful and cheap. 

Fruits. 

Des Fruits. 
The Louisiana Orange has now 



conquered the fruit market, and 
reigns supreme over all other fruits. 
Thousands of trees planted since 
the terrible freeze of 1899, it may be 
incideptally mentioned, are now 
bearing fruit, and if spared for a 
few years will bring abundant re- 
turns to the Louisiana orange 
growers. It would seem that no 
fruit tree offers such inducements to 
the planter, and even if a freeze 
should kill the trees every six or 
eight years, it still pays to grow or- 
anges in Louisiana. Among other 
fruits are Bananas, Pears. Pineap- 
ples, Cher^ries, Grapes, etc. 

Nuts. 

Noix. 

The Louisiana Pecan now make? 
its appearance in the market. Pecan? 
are now being planted on a large 
scale, for the demand for Louisiana 
nuts has never been supplied. Thp 
owners of pecan trees have the nuc» 
gathered up and sent to market 
against the great demand sure to 
follow in the approaching Christmas 
holidays. 

DECEMBER. 

Meats. 
Des Viandes. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Pork. 
Poultry. 
De la Volaille. 
Turkeys, Chickens, Spring Chick- 
ens, Capons, Geese, Domestic Ducks. 
Guinea Fowl. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

Venison, Snipe, Woodcock, Par- 
tridge, Robins, Grassets, Larks. 
Squab, Canvasback Ducks, Mallard 
Ducks, Teal Ducks, Quail, Rabbits. 
Hare, Squirrel, and a number of 
game of good varieties. 

Fisb. 

Poisson. 

All fish common to the New Or- 
leans markets in the months of Jan- 
uary and November hold for Decem- 
ber. Fish now has a most excellent 
fiavor, and is found daily on our 
tables. 

Vegetables. 

Des Legumes. 

All vegetables common to Novem- 
ber (see list) are plentiful in De- 
cember. 

Fruits. 

Des Fruits. 

All fruits common to November 
(see lists) are common to December, 
It is the holiday season and the mar- 
kets are abundantly supplied. 



In the Groceries at All Seasons. 

Meats, 

Canned Beef, Corned Beef, Chipped 
Beef, Canned Beef and Pork Tongue, 
Ham, Salt Pork, Deviled Ham, 
Breakfast Bacon, Pigs' Feet, Sau- 
sage, Lyonnaise Sausage, Hogs' Head 
Cheese, Extract of Beef. Canned 
meats are not generally used in New 
Orleans In summer, but they are 
much used as luncheon and supper 
dishes in ■winter. 

FottI. 

Canned Turkey, Chicken, Ducks. 
Pigeons, Foies Gras, etc. All these 
are used more generally in winter. 

Fish. 

Salt Codfish, Salt Mackerel, Her- 
rings, Salt Roe, Smoked Salmon, 
Smoked Halibut, Canned Lobster, 
Canned Shrimp, Canned Salmon, 
Canned Oysters, Sardines, Anchovies, 
Anchovy Butter, Caviars. 

Game, 

Dried "Venison, Buffalo Tongue, 
Wild Mekts. etc. 

Tegetahles. 

Canned Corn, Green Peas, Aspara- 
gus, Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Cabbage, 
Brocoli, Cucumbers, (pickles), Lima 
Beans, Dried White and Red Beans, 
Split Peas, Kidney Peas, Carrots, 
Parsnips and Horseradish. 
rrults. 

Lemons, Canned Peaches, Pears, 
Pineapples, Cherries, Grapes, Plums,, 
Damsons, Grape £"rult. Cranberries, 
Strawberries, Raspberries, Blackber- 
r'.es. Currants. All the above canned 
fruits made into jellies, marmalades 
and preserves. All manner of Pre- 
serves, Confitures, Dried Apples.. 
Dried' Peaches. 

Pickles and Sauces. 

Chow-chow, Mixed, Sweet Cu- 
cumber, Gherkins, Green Tomatoes, 
Sweet Tomato, Cauliflower, Pickled 
Onions, etc. All kinds of Sauces and 
Salad Dressings generally. 
Nuts. 

Pecans, Peanuts, Filberts, Hickory 
Nuts, Brazilian Nuts, English Wal- 
nut^, Walnuts, Chestnuts (in season), 
Louisiana Pecans. 

MEiyus. 

The Picayune will now proceed to 
give several forms of daily menus, 
which will greatly assist the house- 
keeper in forming the individual 
"Menu" that will suit her purse and 
the taste of her household. 



The following Menus are intended 
as weekly suggestions for Break- 
fast Luncheon and Dinner. Two sets 



are given — one for families whoso 
means will permit of a more elabo- 
rate expenditure of money, the other 
for families of limited means. A set 
of Menus intervene ■which is intend- 
ed as a special suggestion for holi- 
day feasts. These Menus have been 
prepared with especial care. The 
most inexperienced housekeeper, fol- 
lowing their order of arrangement, 
will be able to vary daily by refer- 
ring to the "List of Seasonable 
Foods", found in the New Orleans 
market during each month in the 
year. Thus there may be infinite va- 
riety of food each day on the family 
table. It is particularly urged that, 
for the sake of the good health of 
the family, fish, meats, game, vege- 
tables and fruits be eaten in their 
proper season. It may be incidental- 
ly mentioned that canned meats are 
not as wholesome in our tropical 
clime during the summer months as 
fresh meats; in regard to canned 
vegetables, with the exception of 
Truffles, Mushrooms and Asparagus, 
there is seldom necessity for pur- 
chasing canned goods during any 
season, owing to the abundance of 
our spring and autumn crops. Fresh 
vegetables, fresh fish and fresh 
meats are always the healthiest 
foods. With regard to fruits, the 
Creoles always begin breakfast and 
end dinner and luncheon (and sup- 
per, if served) with fresh fruits. 
They consider this a requisite of 
good health and powerful aids to 
nutrition and digestion. It is the 
rarest thing to hear a Creole, even 
though far advanced in years, com- 
plaining of dyspepsia. It is practi- 
cally an unknown disease among the 
race, notwithstanding the richness 
and variety of food in which they in- 
dulge. Again, most delightful and 
healthful customs among the Creoles 
are to squeeze the juice of half a 
lemon in water and drink it just 
before retiring and to eat an orange 
in the early morning, shortly after 
rising. There is an old adage among 
them that "an orange is gold in the 
morning, and silver at noon and 
night," thus showing how intrinsi- 
cally valuable they consider tho 
morning orange. Often as not, when 
the old Creole servant carries up 
the morning cup of "Cafe Noir" to 
Monsieur or Madame, beside the 
Daily Picayune, which for nearly 
seventy years has been invariably 
part of the "morning portion," there 
will, also, be found upon the plat- 
ter, in a delicate china saucer._ a 
dainty orange, peeled and resting 
like a blossom in the open golden 
shell, gracefully petaled around. 

In the garden homes of New Or- 
leans, and often around the planta- 
tion parishes, the young folks go 
out in the early morning and pluck 



390 



an orange from the trees and eat 
It, and their cheeks are the rosier, 
their eyes the brighter and their 
health and spirits the better for 
this pleasant indulgence. Oranges 
are now shipped from Louisiana to 
every section of the United States, 
and there is no reason why the peo- 
ple from far-ofE Maine, or the ex- 
treme end of the States and terri- 
tories, may not adopt this healthful 
old Creole custom. 

With modifications, as regards fish 
and game, especially, the following 
Menus may be adapted to any sec- 
tion: 

WEEKI,Y SrGGESTIONS. 
Menu for Monday, 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced Oranges. 
Boiled Grits. Milk or Cream. 
Fried Croakers. Olives. 

Broiled Spring Chicken. Potato Croquettes. 

■Radishes. Wajte^rcress. 

Batter Cakes. .Butter. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oysters on Half Shell. Oyster Crackers. 
Pickles. 
Thin Slices of Cold Ham. 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing. 
Brie Cheese. Lemon Jelly Wafers. 

DINNER.. 

Okra Gumto-." 
, Celery. Olives. Salted Almonds. 
Boiled Sheepshead, Cream Sauee. 

Mashed Potatoes. 
Boast Filet of Beef, Tomato Sauce. 

Boiled Rice. ■ Green Peas. 
Stuffed Tomatoes. Asparagus. 

. Beet Salad, French Dressing. 
Qiieen's Pudding, Wine Sauce. 
Pineapple Ice. 
Roquefort. . Fruit. Louisiana Nuts. 
Cafe ,Noir. 

Menu for Tnesday. 

ereAkpast. 

Crapes. 
Small Hominy, Sugar and Cream. 
Boiled Trout, Sauce a la Creme. 
Broiled Tenderloin .Steak. 

French Fried Potatoes. 
Celery. ' Radishes. 
French Rolls. Butter. • Cafe au Lait. 
The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Elver Shrimp on Ice. 

Cold Boast Veal. 

Tomato Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Hominy Croquettes. Celery. 

Cup Cake. Raspberry Jelly. Cheese. 

Tea or Cocoa; 

DINNER. 

.. Cream of Tomato Soup, with Croutons. 
Celery. Olives. Mangoes. 
Oyster Patties . a la Relne. 
Noyau of Beef With Mushrooms. 



New Potatoes a la Farislenne. 
Louisiana Rice. 
Boast Canvasback Duck, Mashed Turnips. 

■ Cauliflower au Vinaigrette. 

Charlotte Russe. Orange Sherbet. Wafers. 

Neufchatel. 

Strawberry Jam. ' Fruits. Nuts. 

Cafe Noir. 

Menu for Wednesday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Prunes or Iced Figs (in season). 

Wheatena, .Milk. 

Broiled Tenderloin Trout, Sauce a la Tartare, 

Potato Chips. Olives. 

Broiled Ham. Scrambled Eggs. 

French Toast. Butter. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Caviars sur Canapes. 

Cold Duck. Lettuce Salad. Rice Croquettes.. 

White Mountain Cake. 

Ctompote of Peaches. Cheese. 

Tea. Milk. 

DINNER. 

- . Bayou Cook Oysters. . 

Spanish Olives. Celery. 

Consomme de Volaille. 

Broiled Sheepshead, Sauce a la Maltre d Hotel.„ 

.Potatoes a la Duchesse. . 

' Lamb Cutlets Breaded, Sauce Soublsse. 

String Beans. Stuffed Cabbage. 

Spinach with Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, Mint Sauce, 

fioquette Salad, French Dressing. 

' Lemon Pudding. 

Roquefort. 

Strawberry Ice.^ Fruity Nuts. 

Cafe Noir. 

Menn for Thursday, 

BRKAKFAST. 

Bananas; 

Oatineal. Cream. 

Broiled Patassas. Potato Croquettes. 

• Cress. - Salt. Olives. 

Fried Liver and .Bacon. Small Hominy. 

Poached Eggs on Toast. 

Waffles. Louisiana Syrup. Butter. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

River Shrimp on Ice. 

Fish Croquettes. Olives. 

Cold Mutton. Potato Salad. French Rolls. 

Brioches. Orange Marmalade. Fruit, 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Green Turtle Soup. Croutons. 

Radishes. Celery. Olives. Pickles. 

Vol-au-Vent of Oysters. 

Veal Saute aux Champignons. 

Rice. Squash. 

Potatoes a la Creme. 

Roman Punch. 

Roast Mallard Duck. Green Peas. 

Banana Fritters. 

Watercress Salad. Asparagus. 

Peach Pie. Roquefort. 

Biscuit Glace, Assorted Cakes. Fruit. 

Cafe Noir. 



391 



Menu for Friday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Stra-wberries and Cream. 

■ Oatmeal, Cream. 

Broiled Oysters on Toast. 

Olives. Oelerv. 

Fried Perch. Small Hominy. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Com Batter Bread. Butter. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oysters on Halt Shell. 

Fish Croquettes. 'Crackers. Pickles. 

Chlcoree Salad. 

Apple Float. Sponge Cake. Fruit. Cheese. 

Tea or Cocoa, 

DINNER. 

Oysters on lee. 

Bisque d'Ecrevisse (Crawfish Bisque.) 

Radishes. Cress. Celery, Olives. 

Broiled Pompano, 'Sauce a la Maitrfe d'Hotel, 

Julienne Potatoes. 

■ Baked Red Snapper a la Creole. 

Butterbeans. New Corn on the Cob. 

Boiled Young Creole Onions. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Macaroni or Spaghetti a la Creole. 

Salad a ■ la Louisianaise. 

Biz au Lait. An^l Cake. Assorted Fruit. 

Lemon Wafers. Neufchatel. 

B:aisins. Nuts. 

Cafe Noir. 

Menn for Saturday. 

■RRBAKFAST. 

Muskmelon on lee. 

Grits. Milk. 

Stewed Tripe. Omelette a la Creole. Olives. 

Snipe on Toast. - 

Flannel Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LnNCHEON. 

Anchovies. 

Fish Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing. 

French Bread. Deviled Ham. Crapkers. 

Blackberry Pie. Cheese Straws. 

Watermelon on Ice. 

Tea or Coffee, 

DINNER. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

Celery. French Olives. Pickles. 

BoulUlabaisse (Eedflsh and Red Snapper). 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Chicken Saute aux Petits Pois. Boiled Rice. 

Parsnips. Carrots a la Creole. 
Boast Venison, Currant Jelly. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 
Green Pepper and Tomato Salad, French 

Dressing. 

Peach Meringue Pie. Roquefort. Fruit. 

Cafe Noir. 

menu *Q' Sunday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Peaches and Cream. 
Cracked Wheat, Milk. 
Broiled Spanish Mackerel. 

Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. 



Julienne Potatoes. 

Radishes. Oress. Olives. 

Creamed Chicken. Small Hominy. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

Broiled Woodcock (Becasse) on Toast. 

Rice Cakes. Butter. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Gumbo File. 

Radishes. Cress. Olives. Salted Almonds. 

CourtbouiUon a la Creole. 

Potato Puffs. 
Sweetbreads a la Creole. 

Green Peas. 
Ponche a la Oardinale, 
Bbast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Broiled "Tomatoes. Stuffed Artichokes. 
Celery Salad, French Dressing. 
Broiled Quail on Toast. Asparagus. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

■ Almond Macaroons. Pineapple ' Ice. 

Assorted Cakes. Fruit. Assorted Nuts. 

Bdam Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Cold Turkey. Tomato Salad. French Toast. 

■ Chocolate Cake. 

Ch.eese. Fig Preserves. Fruit. 

Tea. Milk. 

MENUS FOR HOLIDAY FEASTS 
AND BANaUBTS. 

A. New Year'* -Menu. 

Menu Pour le Jour de I'An. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

-- • -Oatmeal, ■ Cream. • 

Radisbes. Cress. Olives. 

Broiled Trout,- Sauce a la Tartare-. 

Potatoes a la Duchesse. 

Creamed- -ChUiken. Omelette > aux Confitures. 

Salade a -la- Creole. 

Batter Cakes, Louisiana. Syrup. Fresh Butter. 

Cafe, au Lait. 

DINNER. 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Spanish Olives. Celery. Pickles. 

Salted Almonds. 

Green Turtle Soup,- Croutons. 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel, 

Sauce a la Maitre d'HoteL 
Julienne Potatoes. 
Lamb Cutlets Breaded, Sauce Soubise. 
Green Peas. 
Sweetbreads a la Creole. 
Ponche a la Romaine. 
Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 
Baked Yams. Cauliflower a^u Gratia. 

Asparagus a la Maitre d'Hotel, 

Lettuce, Salad Dressing.- 

Broiled Snipe on Toast. 

Pouding a la Reine, Wine Sauce. Mince Pie, 

Cocoanut Custard Pie. 

Biscuit Glace. Petits Pours. Fruits. Nuta 

Raisins. 

Cheese. Toasted Crackers. 

Cafe Noir! 



392 



SUPPER. 

Cold Turkey, Currant Jelly. 

Celery Salad. 

French Rolls. Butter. Assorted Cakes. 

Fruit. Nuts. 

Tea. 

A More E^cononiical Tie-w Year's 
Menu. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced lOranses. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Broiled Spring Chicken. Julienne Potatoes. 

Radishes. Celery. 

Egg Muffins. Fresh Butter. Louisiana Syrvp. 

Cafe au Lait. 

DINNER. 

Consomme. 

Radishes. Celery. Olives. • Pickles. 

Boiled Sheepshead, Cream Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Vol-au-Vent of Chicken. 

Salmi of Wild Duck. <ireen Peas. 

Banana Fritters. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Baked Yams, Sliced and Buttered. 

Green Pepper and Tomato Salad, French 

Dressing. 

Pointes d'Asperges au Beurre. 

Mince Pie. RoQuefort, 

Vanilla Ice Cream. Sponge Cake. 

Assorted Fruits. Nuts. Raisins. 

Cafe Noir. 

J SDPPEH, 

Cold Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 
, Tomato Salad. 

Cake. Fruit. Tea. 

A Tlevr Year's Decoration. 

On New Tear's Day, no matter how 
humble her ciroumstanoes. the Cre- 
ole housewife will have freshly 
blooming roses on her table. In our 
delightful climate, where flowers 
bloom the year round, and where, in 
winter, especially, roses are in their 
zenith of glory, tliere are few homes, 
indeed, in which a patch of ground 
is not set aside for the cultivation of 
flowers; while in the lovely open gar- 
dens in the "Garden District of New 
Orleans" roses in exquisite bloom 
overrun the trellises and arbors and 
smile upon you from the fancifully 
lald-out garden beds. It is wonder- 
ful how a bit of green, with a few 
roses nestling between, will brighten 
up the homeliest table. "With the 
linen spotless, the crystal shining, a 
few loose clusters of rosebuds, typi- 
cal of the budding year, blooming on 
the mantels and in low, glass bowls 
In the center, a charm is imparted to 
the feast, the graceful idea of be- 
ginning anew being suggested, and a 
lingering fragrance thrown over 
memory's page that will remain as 
an incentive to nobler effort for 
many a, day. 



Menu for Elaster Sunday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Small Hominy, Milk. 

Boiled Tenderloin Trout, Sauce a la Creme. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne. 

Cress. Radishes. Olives. 

Breakfast Bacon. Scrambled Eggs. 

Broiled Woodcock on Toast. 

Flannel Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

DliiNER. 

Caviars sur Canapes. 

Oyster Soup. Crackers. 

Mangoes. Olives. Salted Almonds. 

Broiled Pompano, Sauce a la Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

Pigeons Sautes aux Champignons. 

Ponche a la Cardinale. 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce. Green Peas. 

Cauliflower au Beurre. 

Asparagus. 

Salade aux Laitues et aux Cerfeuils. 

Teal Duck sur Canapes. 

Ansel Cake. Brandied Peaches. Lemon Ice, 

Bouchees Glacees. 

Fniit. Nuts. Raisins. Roquefort. 

Cafe Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Warmed-over Lamb. Currant Jelly. 

Celery Salad. 

Waffles. Louisiana Syrup Fruit. 

Tea. 

An Easter Decoration. 

On Easter Sunday the dinner table 
should always be decked with flow- 
ers, or at least some bit of green in- 
dicative not only of the resurrection 
of all nature, but also of the most 
glorious festival of the year. A 
beautiful decoration for those who 
can afford it is to arrange a cut- 
glass bowl on a mirror and fill it 
with Maiden-hair Fern and Calla 
Lilies. Fill the center of the Calla 
Lilies with sprays of Maiden-hair 
Fern; garnish the edges of the mir- 
ror with bits of fern and smilax. 
and the effect of all will be a min- 
iature pond, with the lilies reflected 
within and the banks overrun with 
smilax. 

If this decoration is beyond your 
means, the home gardens are filled 
at this season with hyacinths, and 
violets, and narcissus. Smilax runs 
wild in our Louisiana woods, espe- 
cially around New Orleans, and is to 
be had for the gathering. A bowl of 
hyacinths or violets, or sprays of 
roses, mingled with Maiden-hair fern 
or even a simple bowl of smilax, 
young mint and rose leaf greenery, 
will make the table beautiful, and 
whisper the Easter message to the 
heart. It is really wonderful how 
a bit of green brightens up an apart- 
ment. One of the most beautiful and 
effective Easter decorations ever 



393 



seen In New Orleans was at the home 
of the gentle poet, "Pearl Rivers" 
(Mrs. B. J. Nicholson), who so long 
directed the management of the Pic- 
ayune. It consisted entirely of 
smilax. "There were miles and miles 
of it around the rooms. Graceful 
sprays ran hither and thither in del- 
icate tracery about the table, over 
the center of which there hung from 
the chandeliers beautiful clusters 
and sprays of smilax, which lit up 
with a wondrous' glow, brightening 
the minds of guests with springtime 
freshness, and suggesting the green 
fields, the wooded forests and the 
beautiful spring of the year and oC 
the heart. And all this beautiful 
decoration cost nothing but the gath- 
ering of the graceful smilax from 
the woods around New Orleans. 

A Tlianksglving Menu. 

Menu Pour le Jour d'Action de 

Graces. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Oatflakes and Milk. 

Ojsters on Toast. 

Broiled Tenderloin Steaks. Potato Chips. 

Milk Biscuits. Butter. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe Noir. 

DINNER. 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Cream of Asparagus Sonp. 

Spanish Olives. Celery. Mixed Pickles. 

Radishes. Salted Almonds. 

Baked Red Snapper a la Creole. 

aiashed Potatoes. 

Lamb Chops au Petit Pois. 

Chicken Saute aux Champignons. 

Cauliflower, Sauce Blanche. 

Pineapple Fritters au Rhum. 

Pates de Foies Gras. - 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Turkey Stuffed With Chestnuts, Cranherry 

Sauce. 

Endive Salad, French Dressing. 

Pababotte a la Creole. 

Plum Pudding, Hard or Brandy Sauce. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Lemon Sherbet. Assorted Cakes. 

Assorted Fruits. Assorted Nuts. Raisins. 

Neufchatel. 

Quince Marmalade. Crackers. 

Cafe Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold Turkey. Tomato Salad. 

Crackers. 

Cake. Fruit. Tea. 

A More Economical Tlianksglvlns 
Oinncr. 

DINNER. 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Shrimp Gumbo. 

Radishes. Celery. Olives. Pickles. 

Soles a la Orly. Julienne Potatoes. 

Chicken Croquettes with Mushrooms. 
Banana Fritters. 
Boast Turkey, Oyster Stuffing. 

Cranberry Sauce. 



Young Squash. Macaroni au Gratln. 

Small Onions, 'Boiled Sauce a la Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

Cauliflower au Vinaigrette. 

Plum Pudding. Mince or Pumpkin Pie. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

Assorted Cakes. Nuts. Raisins. Fruit. 

Cheese. 

A TliankBglviiig Decoration. 

For the Thanksgiving table noth- 
ing is more appropriate in the way 
of decorations than autumn leaves 
and berries. The woods at this sea- 
son are full of beautiful trailing 
vines, of bronze and red; brilliant 
boughs, leaves, cones and berries, all 
of which are most appropriate on 
this day, suggesting, by their wild 
luxuriance and freedom of growth, 
the spirit of American liberty which 
gave birth to the day. If it is cold, 
in lieu of the usual coal fire light a. 
blazing fire of pine knots, and you 
will have a glorious American illum- 
ination. 

The favors may consist of tinj' 
American flags, resting amid a clus- 
ter of autumn leaves and Maiden- 
hair Fern, if a formal dinner is given 
and the symbol of our country may 
also be suggested in festoons of nar- 
row red. white and blue streamers 
of ribbon, gracefully dropping from 
the chandeliers. 

Menu for Christmas. 

Menu Pour la Noel. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced Oranges. 

Boiled Grits and Cream. 

Celery. Olives. Radishes. 

Fried Croakers, Sauce a la Tartare. 

Potato Chips. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. Small Hominy. 

Corn Ca!;es. Butter. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Christmas Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Bayou Cook Oysters. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Si'anisU Olives. 

Celery. Young Onions, Pickled. Radishes. 

Salted Almonds. 

Bouilllabaisse (Red .Snapper and Redfish). 

Louisiana Rice. 

Potatoes au Beurre Maitre d'Hotel, 

Vol-au-Vent of Pigeons. 

Green Peas, Buttered. 

Souffle of Bananas au Rhiim, or Marasclilno. 

Punch. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Artichokes on Beurre Maitre d'Hotel. 

Sliced Cucumbers au Vinaigrette. 

Asparagus. 

Broiled Snipe on Toast. 

Ponding a la Reine, Wine Sauce. 

Mince Pie. Apple Pie. 

Strawberry Ice. 'Bouchees. Massepains. 

Petits Fours. IJ 

Assorted Fruits. Assorted Nuts. Raisins. 
Bonbons a la Creole. 



394 



Edam Cheese or Roquefort. Water Crackers. 
Cafe Noir. 

SDPPER. 

Cold Turkey. Tomato Salad. 

Crackers. Cake. 

Marmalade of Apricots. Cheese. Fruit. 

Tea. 

# 

A More Economical Cliristuias 
Sfanu. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Grits and Milk. 

Broiled Chicken. Potatoes a la Duchesse. 

Omelette a la Creole. 

Batter Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Christmas Picayune. 

DINNER. 

River Shrimp on Ice. 

Celerv. 

Eadishes. Spanish Olives. Salted Almonds. 

Julienne Soup. 

Broiled Green. Trout, Sauce Remoulade. 

Potatoes au Brabant. 

Old-Fashioned Chicken - Pie, or Vol-au-Vent 

of Chicken. 

Green Peas. 

Orange Salad or Peach Cobbler. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Baked Yams, Buttered. Winter Squash. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing. 

Plum Pudding. Mince Pie or Apple Pie. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

Found Cake or Jelly Cake. Fruits. Nuts. 

Raisins. 

Roquefort. Crackers. Currant Jelly, 

Cafe Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Potato Salad. 

French Toast. Cheese 'and Jelly. Fruit. 

Tea. 

~. A Chrtstmas Decoration, 

On Christmas Day what is more 
beautiful and appropriate as a deco- 
ration than the holly? The woods 
are full of the beautiful Christmas 
offering of nature at this, time of the 
year. Fill the vases and bowls with 
holly; hang a wreath above the man- 
tel, and set a great clustering bou- 
quet in a low out-glass bowl in the 
center of the table. The bright reel 
berries against the dark green spealc 
of the Christmas glow and cheer 
that fill the heart. 

An Old-Fashioned Creole Sugsei^^lon 
for Holiday Menus. 

The following old-fashioned Creole 
holiday menu, in vogue for genera- 
tions among Creole families of mod- 
erate means, may be used by families 
whose means are very limited, but 
who, nevertheless, with all the world, 
wish to enjoy themselves, and give 
to those about them a little Christ- 
m:as cheer. With a little modifica- 
tion, such as Roast Goose with Applj 



Sauce, it may be within the means of 
the poor, and may serve for the 
Christmas, New year or Thanksgiv- 
ing's Dinner. Mutton is always with- 
in the reacli of the poor in our mar- 
ket, and those families who cannot 
afford the traditional "Quarties d'Ag- 
neau Roti, Sauce Menthe," at Easter 
can always enjoy a good piece of 
Roast Lamb or Mutton from the 
brisket or shoulder, 

BREAKFAST, 

Sliced Oranges. 

Small Homipy and Milk. 

Broiled Tenderloin Steak, Potatoes a la Creole. 

Omelette a la Creole. 

Rice Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

DINNER. 

Gumbo File. 

Radishes. Cress. Pickled Onions. 

Courtbouillon. Mashed Potatoes. 

(This Course May Be Omitted.) 

Belgnets d'Oranges. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster Stuffing, Cranberry 

Sauce. 

Baked Yams, Sliced and Buttered. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing. 

Old-Fashioned Chicken Pie (may be omitted.) 

Plum Pudding. 

Mince Pie or Apple Pie. 

Pineapple Sherbet (may be omitted). 

Home-Made Sponge, Jelly and Pound Cukes. 

Apples, Oranges, Bananas, Grapes, 

(Or simply one or two fruits). 

An Assortment of Nuts and Raisins. 

Home-Made Creole Bonbons. 

Cheese. Crackers. Raspberry Marmalade. 

Cafe Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Cheese. 

Jelly. Small Cakes. 

Tea. 

How to Vary All the Above Menus 

to Suit the IndlTldunl Dally or 

Holiday Household AI- 

loivance. 

In regard to all the abcve menus, 
as mentioned in the beginning of 
this chapter, they are simply In- 
tended ^s suggestions. The intelli- 
gent housekeeper will vary them to 
suit her means, selecting a dish here 
and there, or referring to the "Or- 
der of Dinner Service" given in the 
preceding chapter, and thence to the 
various recipes in THE PICAYUNE'S 
CREOLE COOK. BOOK, and thus 
make out a menu to suit her own 
special daily or holiday allowance. 
With a little judicious care she will 
find that she can- always set an ele- 
gant and cheap dinner, and. If prop- 
erly cooked, the family of modest 
means need not envy a millionaire's 
Christmas, New Tear's or even dally 
menu. 



395 



SPECIAL BIE2NUS. 

Suggestions for Banciuets or Formal 
Dinners, 

In giving banquets, whether break- 
fasts, dinners or suppers, there is 
generally a tendency to overdo the 
menu. It should be borne in mind 
that to the Intelligent , and refined 
nature, there always comes the 
thought, "Man does not live by 
bread alone," and any attempt to 
over-feed by a too-lavish expendi- 
ture or number of dishes not only 
displays a lack of elegant taste, 
but is positively vulgar. Too many 
courses spoil a feast, and what is 
Intended to be an enjoyable, delight- 
ful reunion. It Is too often forgot- 
ten that all the guests are not gour- 
mands, and that it does not require 
fifteen or twenty courses to satisfy 
all appetites. 

A "long drawn-out" affair becomes 
a very fatiguing and often disgust- 
ing meal; the guests grow tired, and 
cannot repress the , sluggish feel- 
ing that begins to cloud their spir- 
its, even if only a small quantity of 
any course Is served. Ten courses 
are enough for the most formal din- 
ner. Never sacrifice . quality for 
o.uantity, and when the Picayune has 
said this, it means not only the 
quality of the food, but the quality 
of intellectual seasoning that gives 
a zest to even the homeliest fare. 

Again, too much wine is servea, 
as a general rule. Where wines are 
served, remember that three kinds 
are suflScient for even the most cost- 
ly and elegant menU'r-Whlte Wine 
(Sauternes) or Sherry with the soup; 
Sauternes with the fish; Claret with' 
the entrees and roasts; Champagne 
just before the dessert is brought 
to the table. 

The following menus will serve as 
suggestions for the most elegant 
feasts: 

Dinner, 

Oj-sters on Half Shell. 
Amontillado. 

SOUPS OR POTAGES. 

Soupe a la Julienne or Consomme Royale. 

HORS D'OEDVRES (SIDE RELISHES). 

Celery, Radishes. Queen OliTes, Young 

Onions, Salted Almonds. 

POISSON .(FISH). 

Broiled Pompano (in season) or Spanish Maelc- 

erel. Sauce a la Maltre d'Hotel. 

Fommes de Terre a la Duehesse (Potatoes a 

la Duehesse). 

Sliced Cucumbora. 

Sauternes. 

RELEVES. 

Filet de Boeuf Truffee aux Perlgueux, or 
Saute anx Champignons. 

EXTREK. 
Sweetbreads a. la Creole. 



I.EGDMKS. 

Green Peas. 
Stuffed Artichokes. Asparagus. 

EOTI. 

Turkey Stuffed with Oysters or Chestnuts. 

Snipe on Toast, or Pababotte a la Creole. 

Watercress. 

Champagne. 

SALADE. 

Whole Tomatoes Prappe, or Lettuce Salad, 
French Dressing. 

DESSERTS. 

Nesselrode Pudding. Variegated Ice Cream. 

Chocolate Layer Cake or Petits Fours. 

Assorted Fruits. Assorted Xuts. Raisins. 

Edam of Roquefort Cheese. 

Cafe NoLT. 

It must be remembered right here 
that it is no longer elegant to give 
the distinctive nanies of courses In 
printed menus. They are merely sug- 
gested, as in the following: 

Oysters' on Half Shell. 
Consomme. 
Sauterne. 

Soft-Shell Crabs a la Creole. 
New Potatoes a la JIaltre d'Hotel. 

Sweetbreads a la Creole. 

Petits Pols (Green Peas)-. 

Sorbet a la Royale. 

Claret. 

Filet ilignon de Boeut aux Truffes on aui 

Cbamplffnons. 

Artichokes a la Barlgouls., Asparagus. 

Whole Tomatoes Frappe. 

Pigeons a la Crapaudlne. or Quail or Wood- 
Cock on Toast. 
Cress. 

Fancy Variegated Ice Cream or Pineapple 

Sherbet. 

Assorted Cakes. Fruits. Nuts. Bonbons. 

Coffee. Tea. 



Menu for a Buffet Lunclieon. 

Consomme Dore en Tasse (Gilt-Edged Con- 
somme in Cups). 

Sandwiches. Caviar on Toast. 

Radishes. Celery. Olives. Mixed Pickles. 

Salted Almonds. 

Oyster Patties. 

Boned Turkey (Galantine Truffe) or Cold 
Boast Turkey. 

Mayonnaise of Chicken or Shrimp. 

Biscuit Glace or Variegated Ice Cream. 

Assorted Cakes. Assorted Bonbons. 

Crystallized Fruits. 

Tea. Coffee. Cream. Chocolate. 

Iced Lemonade. 

Champagne Punch Frappe (It desired). 



396 



Menu for Snppers. 

A supper is always a more elabo- 
rate affair ttian a. dinner. It ad- 
mits of an appetizer. Oysters on Half 
Shell, served as an hors d'oeuvre. or 
Anchovies, Caviars, etc.; a Soup or 
Gumbo; the usual hors d'oeuvres of 
Celery, Radishes, Cress, Pickel On- 
ions, Mangoes, Salted Almonds, etc.; 
Fish, broiled, baked, Courtbouillon or 
Bouilliabaisse; vegetable attach- 
ments; entrees of various kinds, to 
suit the taste and also to corres- 
pond with the course of the feast; 
sweet entremets; a roast, vegetables, 
to be served with It, and salad; game 
of any variety, from Venison, Can- 
vasback. Mallard, and Teal Ducks, 
to Pababottes, Snipe, Woodcock, etc., 
on toast; Desserts, Fruits, Jellies, 
Cheese, Coffee. 

The Menu should always be varied 
according to the season, selecting 
always the first and most elegant 
fish, game, vegetables, fruits, etc., 
of the season to set before your 
guests. 

As a rule, any elegant dinner menu 
may serve also for a supper, ex- 
cept in case of a state dining, and 
even then the rule given above 
should be observed. 

Do mot overload yonr table, and, 
above all, do not fatigue your 
suests TTltli long-drawn-out affairs 
of eighteen and twenty courses. Ob- 
serve the happy medium, ten and 
even less, and you and they will be 
the more^ satisfied, the more de- 
lighted, and the more comfortable 
for your thoughtful and refined con- 
sideration. 

Creole Home Dining. 

The Menus given for daily use may 
be used at any home dining not for- 
mal. Do not have such an elaborate 
outlay when you invite a few friends 
to dine ."en famille," as the Creoles 
say, as will make them feel, especial- 
ly if your means are limited, that 
they have put you to a great deal of 
unnecessary expense, and conse- 
quently will feel a delicacy in ac- 
cepting your invitation again. With 
the exception, perhaps, of a roast 
fowl or duck substituted for the 
everyday roast meat, and a little ex- 
tra touch to the dessert, it is un- 
necessary to go to any greater ex- 
pense than that which you have laid 
out for the daily menu. 

Again, remember that it is not 
quantity, but quality, that you must 
set before your guests; quality in the 
manner in which you will have pre- 
pared the food; quality in the way 
of serving it; quality in the neat- 
ness, delicacy and cleanliness of all 
around, from the table linen to the 



shining glassware and silver, and. 
above all, tact and quality in the 
way that, you entertain your guests. 
A cheerful, smiling, intelligent 
hostess, who offers no excuse for 
her simple fare because it is all 
that she can afford; who offers you, 
besides the best that she has. of 
good temper, cultured mind and 
kindly heart and cordial welcome, 
by the way of "seasoning" the re- 
past — such a hostess is worth thous- 
ands of rich, would-be entertainers, 
wl^o rely upon the abundance of 
their table supplies and rich service, 
and w.ho seek to da!zzle by the ex- 
travagant and costly appointments 
of their homes and surroundings, 
while the true offerings which make 
the simple meal in the, humble cot- 
tage over the way are wanting — the 
intellectual fare, now grave, but 
never sad: the wit and repartee, 
bright and sparkling, but never bois- 
terous, and never a sting or wound 
hidden in its merry echoes; and the 
heart so kind, so true and loyal 
that echoed through the welcome 
greeting, "Make yourself at home," 
or as the Creoles, following their 
Spanish ancestral traditions. so 
gracefully say, "My house is yours." 
All these are the life and heart of 
any feast. Moreover, you know that 
your hostess meant every word that 
she said, and this thought throws a 
charm over the entire feast, even 
though it consists of nothing more 
than "Grillades a la Sauce." served 
with Red Beans and Rice, or an 
old-fashioned "Gumbo Choux," or 
"Gumbo aux Herbes," that you are 
positive could not have cost any 
more than fifteen cents for the entire 
dish. But it is cooked in such a 
way and served with such grace that 
a king might not disdain to eat it 
and consider himself fortunate for 
the privilege. 

There is no reason why the fact 
of a friend entering at dinner time 
should cause any unnecessary com- 
motion at the table; no necessity for 
any excuses to be offered, and, above 
all, no reason why dinner-giving 
should have grown to be considered 
such an elaborate function that per- 
sons in moderate circumstances fear 
to give the good, old-fashioned, sim- 
ple dinings, when friend met friend 
for the pleasure of their company, 
and a hostess could extend the in- 
vitation without fear of having to 
retrench for days to make up for 
the unusual outlay. 

No homes in the South suffered 
more through the loss of fortunes 
by the war than did the Creole homes 
Of Louisiana. But the old social 
customs still remain, and many a 
hostess who years ago could invito 
her friends to a superb dining, which 
would have gladdened the heart of 



397 



even the most fastidious old Creole 
gourmet, now finds herself reduced 
to perhaps even less than a dollar 
a day, and she has nobly accommo- 
dated herself to circumstances. And 
have her friends of former days 
fallen away? Not at all. For the 
Creoles hold good birth, good breed- 
ing and education higher than 
wealth. The poor little Creole seam- 
stress over the way can still go into 
what is considered the best society, 
it her birth and education are good. 
These are the criterions, the pass- 
ports into the ancient homes where 
wealth and luxury still abide. And 
in return her friends from th,e great 
mansions visit her, and sit down 
with zest to her simple dining. And 
it may be added here that the sim- 
ple fare is so w^ell-prepared, the 
manner of serving so elegant, and 
the hostess so gracious, though she 
only wears a flve-cent-a-yard calico 
dress, that you might think, as Ma- 
rion Crawford said, when he went 
into one of these humble old-fash- 
ioned homes, that you were in the 
presence of a princess of the royal 
blood, for you met with such warmth 
of hospitality as made you at once 
feel at home, and such a courtesy 
and charm of manner as would have 
done honor to a, throne. 

SOIIIBBS. 

"Soirees" are pleasant forms of 
entertainments that have come down 
from earliest Creole days in Louisi- 
ana, While elaborate entertaining 
was also done, the Creole character 
being naturally gay and happy, and 
inheriting a French fondness for the 
dance, for music and song and so- 
cial intercourse, the young folks had 
a way of giving weekly soirees, at 
which their parents served simple 
light refreshments, such as the fa- 
mous "Sirops," given in a preced- 
ing chapter, ices of various kinds. 
lemonades and Petits Pours, or small 
cakes, wafers and fruits. These re- 
freshments were passed around by 
the old-time servants, decked in gay 
bandana tignon, guinea blue dress, 
and white apron, and kerchief pinned 
across the bosom. Later in the even- 
ing tea was served, and as the "Soi- 
ree" advanced to the ■v^ree hours, cof- 
fee, chocolate and consomme in cups. 

Fathers took the greatest inter- 
est in the "Soirees" in their homes, 
and did the honors with distin- 
guished courtesy, invjting the older 
gentlemen, who acted as escorts for 
their daughters, to take a glass of 
wine or champagne, but liquors wera 
never offered to the young people 
a custom that mi^ht well be adopted 
in our day generally. Ice Cream, 
Lemonade and Cakes, with a cup of 
Consomme or Cafe Noir, as the even- 



ing advanced, were considered suf- 
ficient refreshment. 

Again, at these "Soirees" the sim- 
ple "Bau Sucre" was served (see 
"Eau Sucre," under chapter on Do- 
mestic Drinks, Cordials, etc.) in the 
homes of families of most limited 
means. Lack of money has never 
debarred a Creole to the manor born 
from what is called the best society. 
These old-time "Soirees" still con- 
tinue, though the "Eau Sucre" par- 
ties have passed away with changing 
conditions. 

The Creole "Soirees" are pleasing 
forms of entertainment that might 
be adopted with profit generally. 

ECOSTOMICAL MENUS. 

The following economical menus 
are intended as suggestions, showing 
how a family of six may live com- 
fortably and with variety on from 
a dollar to a dollar and a half a 
day. In 'all these recipes the left- 
over from one meal is utilized in 
another dainty form for the next, 
thus equalizing expenses from day 
to day. 

Menu for Monilny. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced Oranges. 

Small Hominy. Milk. 

Broiled Beefsteak. Julienne Potatoes. 

Batter Cakes. Louisiana Sfrup. 

Gtte au Lait. 

The Dally Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Muskmelcn. 

Sauclsses a la Creole. Hominy Croquettes. 

French Rolls. Raspberry Jam. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Vegetable Souo. 

Baked Red Snapper. 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Roast Beet, Tomato Sauce. 

Boiled Rice. Butterbcans. Lettuce Salad. 

Apple Dumplings a la Creole. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 

Menu for Tuesday, 

BREAKFA^ST. 

Bananas. 

Grits and Milk. 

Meat Rissoles. Potato ■ Croquettes. Biscuit. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Thin Slices ot Boiled Ham. 

Compote of Apples. 

Tea. 

DIITOER. 

Gumbo File. 

Fish Croquettes. Hominy Fritters. 

Roast Pork, Apsle Sauce. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. String Beaa Salad. 

Banana Cake. Cheese. 

Cafe Nolr; 



308 



Menu for "Wednesduy. 

BREAKFAST. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Oatii;eal an:l Milk. 

Fried 'Jlani. Scrambled Esgs. 

Sweet Potato Waffles. Butter. 

Cafe au Lalt. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold Roast Pork. 

Oatmeal Cakes. Salade a la Jardiniere. 

Ginser Snaps. Tea. 

DINNER. 

Vermicelli SouD. 

Courtioulllcn. Potatoes a la Duchesse. 

Grillades a la Sauce. Red Beans. Rice. 

Green Pepper and Tomato Salad. 

Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. Fruit. 

Cafe Noir. 

Menu for Tlinrsday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Peaches and Cream (in seasonl. 

Ragout of Mutton. Small Hominy. 

Cornmeal Cakes. Louisiana Syrup, 

Cafe au , Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fish Croquettes. Potato Salad. 

Fried Liver With Onions. 

French Toast. Tea. 

DINNER. 

Cream of Tomato Soujj. 

-Boiled Sheepshead, Sauce a la Greme. 

Potato Snow. 

Veal Saute aux Petits Pois, Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Riz au Lalt. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 

menu for Friday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Pears (in season). 

Boiled Hominy. kilk. 

Broiled Trout. 

Julienne Potatoes. Pain Perdue, 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

River Shrims on Ice, 

Codflsh Balls. 

Cheese Fondue. Dry Cakes, Orange Jelly. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Puree of Red or White Beans. 

Spanish Courtbouillon, Potatoes a la Duchess?, 

Jambalaya au Congrl, 

Stewed 'Cashaw. 

Blackberry Roll, Hard Sauce. 

Cafe Noir. 

M&nn for Saturday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Cracked Wheat, Milk; 

Grillades Fanees. 

Apple Fritters. Milk Toast. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fish Croquettes. 

Cold Boiled Tongue. Sliced Cucumber Sala'1. 

Orange Short Cake. Tea. 



DINNER, 

Vermicelli Soub. 

Daube "or Beef a la Mode. 

Macaroni au Gratlu. 

Spanish J.imbaiaya. Turnips a la Cren>« 

Lentils or Peas. 

Beet Salad, French Dressing. 

Sweet Potato Pudding, or Custard Pie, 

Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 

menu for Sunday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries (in season). Milk. 

Oatmeal. JVIllk. 

Grillades Panees. Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

French Rolls. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Com SouD (in season). 

Radishes. Cress. Home-made Pickles. 

Boullliabalsse. New Potaoes, ButtereJ, 

Fricasseed Cliicken with Dumplings, or" Pouler 

au Riz. 

Salmi of Wild Duck, With Turnlos. 

Green Peas, Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Lemon Sherbet. Cake. 

Cafe Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Warmed-Over Duck. Potato Salad. 

Blackberry Jam. Cake. 

Tea. 

HoTT to Vary These IBlcononitcal 
Daily Menus. 

These Menus may be varied with 
Gumbo p^ux Herbes; Gumbo Choux; 
Shrimp Gumbo; Bisque d'Ecrevisses; 
all manner of Purees, when vege- 
tables are in the height of the sea- 
son; all kinds of vegetables in the 
height of the season; various com- 
potes and jeljies and jams put up 
thriftily when fruits are selling at 
ouch rates as eight peaches, or six 
apples or pears, or a dozen bananas 
for five cents, etc.; fried bananas; 
all manner of sweet entremets, with 
the exception of the expensive ome- 
lets and fritters, and nearly all 
kinds of puddings and pies and des- 
serts. The chief point is for the 
housekeeper to watch the market 
carefully; never to buy green peas, 
new corn, artichokes, etc., when they 
first make their appearance and are 
naturally very dear; but to wait till 
the first two weeks are over, and 
then she may safely purchase any 
and • everything, from young squash, 
eggplants, pumpkin, to the more ele- 
gant green peas, new corn, etc. When 
chickens are cheap. If she does not 
endeavor tb raise her own family 
supply of poultry and eggs, even In 
a city yard, 'as hundreds of the Cre- 
oles do, she may occasionally — once 
or even twice a week — treat the 
family to a dish of Roast Chicken 
Saute aux Petit Pois, Roast Goose a 
la Ghipolatd, Wild Duck — not, In- 



399 



deed, always the famous Canvasbaok 
or Mallard or Teal, but excellent antl 
splendid wild game the taste of 
which is very good. Occasionally, 
too, she may find Mallard Ducks sell- 
ing in the French Market at 25 and 
30 cents a pair, especially on rainy 
days, when the game does not meet 
such a ready sale among the wealthy 
who, often as not, refrain from send- 
ing directly to the large market 
stalls. On such days she may also 
have opportunities to purchase even 
Canvasback or Teal Duck at the 
same low rates, and the family at 
these times may also enjoy a dish of 
Mackerel, as well as all manner of 
fancy game. As to Squirrels, Rab- 
bits and Poule d'Eau, they are al- 
ways within the reach of the poor. 
Iledfish and Red Snapper may al- 
ways be bought in slices, three 
slices selling for 10 cents. Six slices, 
or three of each fish, will make the 
famous "Bouilliabaisse" in ample 
quantity for a family of six and 
(the "Courtbouillon a la Creole" is 
too expensive a dish for a family 
limited to a dollar a day), the Span- 
ish Courtbouillon, so much in vogue 
among the Creoles of all ranks, is a 
most excellent dish and is preferred 
by many who do not like the flavor 
of wine in fish. From time to time 
the family may also have the pleas- 
ure of enjoying a Roast Turkey, and 
this, too, will be found a most eco- 
nomical venture, if properly man- 
aged for the left-over turkey from 
the Sunday dinner may be used for 
hash for breakfast the next morn- 
ing, and still agaiil the carcass and 
bones may be utilized at dinner in 
making a splendid Turkey Gumbo. 
When this Gumbo is properly made 
and served with Rice, little else will 
be needed for the meal. Thus, if you 
purchase a Turkey for $1 or $1.25 
(and often a splendid fowl may be 
had for even less,) the outlay of one 
day becomes, a part of the next, and 
what seemed at first an expensive 
indulgence will In reality prove a 
most economical investment. The 
same may be said In regard to buy- 
ing ham. I*urchase a whole ham at 



a time, instead of buying it by the 
slice. Boil it and serve cold for lun- 
cheon; fry or boil slices for break- 
fast, and when every part of the 
meat seems to have been used up, 
do not, under any circumstances, 
throw away the bone, but save it 
to boil with cabbage, white beans, 
red beans, lentils, etc. All these are 
very cheap dishes; they are also, 
with all due regard to , elegant and 
more expensive dishes, the most 
healthy and nutritious tissue and 
life-giving foods that any mother, be 
she the wife of a millionaire or of 
an humble laborer, can set before 
her children. Turtle Soup may be 
enjoyed by even the poorest, if the , 
turtle is purchased in slices. Keep 
the turtle meat from the soup to 
make "Quenelles" (see recipe), and 
these may be served for supper or 
breakfast. 

Tlie intelligent honsekeeper Trill 
carefi'.'lly calculate her expenses. 
Willie not one of tbe above recipes 
need exceed a dollar a day, prop- 
erly distributed, and using the 
left-over from one day or meal 
for the next, the expense of living 
may be still further decreased in 
families Trhlch cannot afford a dol- 
lar a day, by omitting some one or 
other of the dishes, according to the 
cost. It Trill often be found con- 
venient and most agreeable in large 
families among the poor and those 
of very moderate means to mal£e 
one or, t*vo large, or, as the Cre- 
oles term them, "long family 
dislies," varying Trith each day, than 
to serve a g-reater number of small 
dishes. What Is expended above a 
dollar in one day Is made up in the 
next, and so at tlie end of the Tveek, 
in rounding up her account of ex- 
penditures — for every housekeeper 
should keep her account, and not 
go above her husband's means — it 
will be found that not only have the 
expenses been kept Tvithlu the dol- 
lar-a-day limit, but often she has 
been able to save a dime, or even 
a fcTT cents, against a rainy day. 



CHAPTER L. 



CONCIiUSION. 



How the Creole HouscTvife In Reduced Cireiimstnuces aianascs to Live 
Fconomicnlly and Well. 



The Creole women of Louisiana 
have long been the subject of song 
and story — their beauty, their ac- 
complishments, their grace and dig- 
nity of character, united to singular 
vlvasity and charm of temperament, 
no less than the difficulty that even 
the most aristocratic visitors to New 
Orleans encounter in receiving invi- 
tations to visit them in their homes, 
unless presented by some intimate 
mutual friend, who stands as spon- 
sor for the stranger, have invested 
them with a romance and charm 
that attach to no other women in 
the United States. And these 
charming characteristics they will 
be found to have retained even -when 
as in many instances, they have 
been forced into rude stations of 
society and employments, by rea- 
son of the misfortunes that swept 
over their once princely and opulent 
homes. 

With wealthy Creole homes this 
chapter will not deal particularly. 
Taste, tact and good management 
the characteristic traits of the Cre- 
ole woman, whether rich or poor. 
But, as said in the beginning of 
this book, its object is to teach 
people how to live — the rich as well 
as the poor, THE PICAYUNE feels 
that the former have exceptional 
advantages, whereas the latter ar« 
thrown upon their own resources of 
thought and ingenuity in seeking, 
as the old adage says, "to make both 
ends me^t." Especially is this true 
In 'regard to household manage- 
ment, and the special object of this 
chapter is to show how the Creoln 
housewife who is reduced in cir- 
cumstanc33 manages to successfully 
conduct her household, pay rent, 
properly clothe herself and children 
and yet manage to keep a good 
table, that is a source of good health 
for the family and a pride to her 
husband. 

It is often said in New Orleans 
that no one dresses better and with 
more taste than the Creole women. 
Even the woman of humble mean'? 
will always appear neat and nice, 
well-shod and well-gloved, when 
she is seen on the street.' IJer hus- 
band is often surprised at the pretty 
new dress, cheap and of inexpensive 
material, wheich she has purchased 



for one of the little ones, without 
asking him for the money. The se- 
cret lies in this: She does not stint 
her table — trust a good Creole 
mother for that, for the well-sup- 
plied table is an ancient, traditional 
heritage of her race, from which she 
will not depart — but she manages 
most carefully, buying her supplies 
of sugar and molasses and rice, grits 
and flour when these are "down In 
the market;" putting up her dainty 
jellies, marmalades and domestic 
wines when fruits aie "going beg- 
ging," as the term runs, because 
the market is so overstocked. When 
the children come rushing In, tell- 
ing her that the first cries of "Straw- 
berries" are heard In the streets, she 
quietly tells them not to be in a 
hurry; that In a few weeks they will 
have more than they can eat; and 
so carefully and judiciously man- 
aging that, though her husband's 
salary Is only fifty doUares a month 
and the family consists of six chil- 
dren, besides father and mother, sho 
manages to pay the house rent (for 
she will select a pretty, neat little 
cottage in a respectable, but not 
fashionable neighborhood,) to pay 
for the milk and bakers' bread sup- 
plies, keep her family table spotless 
with linen bought when bargains 
are offered In the Canal Street stores, 
and have her household linen and 
children's and husband's underwear 
always in good repair. She faith- 
fully watches the lolumns of the 
Daily Picayune for announcements 
of "big bargain sales" in sheeting 
underwear, hosiery and dress goods, 
purchasing the children's supplies 
of summer and winter clothing at 
the end of the season when all the 
finest goods are marked down to 
fabulously low prices, because the 
raercliants are anxious to get rid 
of the surplus stook, and, above all, 
she strives to ke-3p the wedding day 
smile on her husband's face and the 
old love-light In his eyes, and the 
old song ever singing in his heart: 

"Home; home, sweet home! 
There is no place like home." 
because of the happiness and love 
and devotion that there abide. 

The Creole mother eminently mer- 
its the term that was bestowed upon 



401 



her long ago by a sweet Liouislana 
poet, and which has become a house- 
hold word in the French Quarter. 
"Femnie de I'lnterieure." These 
words indicate her life, that beau 
tiful, interior, hidden home lite, not 
given to solving the many vexing 
questions of woman suffrage and 
woman's rights that agitate the 
minds of many of the sex in our 
day, for she is no agressive com- 
petitor in the ranks and callings 
of men; she is, indeed, the "Femme 
de I'lnterieure," the queen of ths 
hearth and home. She holds the 
home as woman's supreme sphere. 
her Ideal realm, w^here liove is her 
throne, a throne reared in the hearts 
of her husband and children, and ol 
which the attendant ministers are 
Purity, Truth and Fidelity. She is 
cultured, gracious, refined; as able 
to grace the parlor as she is capable 
of presiding in the kitchen; tlior- 
oughly conversant with all the lead- 
ing topics of the day, ■with \<rhich 
she familiarizes herself, not that she 
may be regarded simply as a bril- 
liant woman, not for the sake of 
argumentative discourse on public 
platforms, but for her ovirn inner sat- 
isfaction and pleasure, and that she 



may be the flttnig companion of her 
husband, the pleasing, intelligent 
confidant of her children, the wise 
and earnest director of their mor- 
al and intellectual aspirations and 
ambitions. And so her husband 
learns to look to his home during 
the weary worlcing hours of the day 
as to a beacon star, for he knows 
that within bloom the fairest flow- 
ers of modest worth; the violet and 
the rose are there, the crysanthc- 
mum and the lily, ajid those that 
bloom in God's own garden shed not 
a sweeter fragrance than do vthese 
heavenly exotics around thg hearth 
of the true Creole home. 

This is the picture of the Creole 
mother and home, whether in the 
palatial homes of the Hue Espla- 
nade or Rue Rampart, or in the 
humble cottages of the Faubourg 
Marigny, and it is this devetion to 
the interests of husband, home and 
children, coming down as a precious 
inheritance through long genera- 
tions of noble Creole housewives and 
mothers, that has given the Creole 
cuisine such a unique and interest- 
ing place in the world's cookery, and 
which has made possible this com- 
pilation of 



THE PICAYUNE'S CREOLE COOK BOOK. 




OONTEN 



Pago 

Title Page 2 

Introduction to Fourtli Edition 3 

Introduction to First Edition & 

Cliapter I , Creole Coffee 

Chapter II .' Soups 

Cliapter III Meat Soups 

Chapter IV ' Fish Soups 

Chapter V Lenten Soups 

Chapter VI The Bouilll 

Chapter VII ■ Creole Gimbo 

Chapter VIII .' Fish 

Chapter IX Shell Pish 

Chapter X Shell Pish (Continued) 

Chapter XI Salt and ' Canned Pish 

Chapter XII Meats— Beef 

Chapter XIII Veal — Sweetbreads 

Chapter XIV Mutton 

Chapter XV ■ • Pork 

Chapter XVI Poultry 

Chapter XVII , Pigeons 

Chapter XVIII Game 

Chapter XIX Birds 

Chapter XX. .. .Stuffings and Dressings for Poultry, Game and Fish^ Etc. 

Chapter XXI Sauces for Fish, Meats, Poultry, G&.me, Etc. 

Chapter XXII Salads 

Chapter XXIII Eggs 

Chapter XXIV Louisiana Rica 

Chapter XXV Cereals 

Chapter XXVI Macaroni 

Chapter XXVII Cheese 

Chapter XXVIII Canapes 

Chapter XXIX ". ' Vegetables 

Chapter XXX ' Hors d'Oeuvres (Relishes) 

Chapter XXXT Sweet Entremets 

Chapter XXXII ' Desserts 

Chapter XXXIII Pastry and Pies 

Chapter XXXIV Pudding's 

Chapter XXXV Custards, Creams and Other Desserts 

Chapter XXXVI Pudding Sauces 

Chapter XXXVII ,. Cakes 

Chapter XXXVIII Layer Cakes 

Chapter XXXIX ■ Dessert Cakes 

Chapter XL Icings for Cakes 

Chapter XLI Ice Creams, Biscuits, Sherbets 

Chapter XLII Fruits, Syrups, Cordials, Etc. 

Chapter XLIII Domestic Wines, Cordials and Drinks 

Chapter XLIV Jellies, Marmalades, Preserves 

Chapter XLV Creole Candies 

Chapter XLVI Canning and Pickling 

Chapter XLVII Creole Breads 

Chapter XLVIII Suggestions to Housekeepers 

Chapter XLIX Varieties of Seasonable Foods 

Chapter L Conclusion 

IL_l_U©XFRA-riCDN©. 



A Creole Negro Cook (Tante Zoe, with Tureen of Gumbo File) 
The Picayune Frog (For Explanation See Page 51) 



Page 



... INDEX ... 



BEEF — Du Boenf 74 

Guides in Choosing Meats .... 72 
Unfailing- Rules "Which the Ore-' 

oles follow 74 

BEEP (Du Boeuf ) '.'.'.'.'.'. 76 

Beef a la Mode 76 

Beefsteak Broiled . 75 

Beefsteak, Smothered . . . 75 

Beefsteak, Smothered in On- 
ions Yg 

Beef Marine 77 

Beefsteak Pie 80 

Bouilli ' ' ' 29 

Corned Beef 81 

Daube, Cold a la Creole ! i ! ! 77 

Filet of Beef Larded 74 

Filet of Beef, Larded With 

Mushrooms 75 

Filet of Beef, Larded, With 

Truffles 75 

Filet of Beef, Smothered, witli 

Mushrooms or Truffles ... 76 
Filet of Beef, with Stuffed 

Tomatoes 76 

Filet of Beef, with Tomatoes 76 

Fried Meat 78 

Grillades 78 

Grillades, Breaded 79 

Grillades with Gravy 78 

Hash : 80 

Hash, Bry or Baked 80 

Hash, of Corned Beef 81 

Hash on Toast SO 

Kidneys, Broiled 81 

Kidneys, Stewed 82 

Left-over Meat 79 

Left-over Meat (Rissoles) ... 80 

Liver, Broiled 82 

Liver, Fried a la Lyonnaise.. 32 

Meat Balls (Boulettes) 79 

Meat Balls (Boulards) ...... 79 

Ox Tails a la Bourgeoise. . . . 81 

Ox Tails, Breaded 81 

Potted Beef 80 

Roast Beef 74 

Souffle 80 

Tongue, Jellied oJ 

Tongue, Smothered 82 

BEVERAGES, CREOLE HOUSE- 
HOLD — Bolssons de Menage, 310 

DOMESTIC CORDIALS AND 

DRINKS .../. 316 

General Directions and Pro- 

' portions for 317 

How *to Filter 317 

BEER, Creole (Bierre Creole). 330 

Ginger Beer 330 

Root Beer 330 

Spruce Beer 330 

CUPS (Ponches) 324 

Burgundy Cup . . . . , 324 

Claret Cup S/il 



Champagne Cup .. 391 

Moselle Cup ..1,i 

■White Wine Cup ...'. If. 

Brandy Stew ■'" VA 

Egg-Nogg ...::: if„ 

Eggs and Wine " i.g 

Hot Spiced Port ' " 3V.5 

Mint Julep a la Creole . . . .' 326 

Sangaree, Hot or Cold ... -A'^c 

Sherry Cobbler ■" ■«« 

Wine Cobbler 00^ 

CORDIALS (Liqueurs) ..'.'.'.'." 32? 

Anisette 3^^ 

Anisette de Bordeaux ...'.' .' 327 

Blackberry Cordial .' .' 323 

Citronelle .'.' 3^8 

Curacoa 32s 

Kiimmel ....'. 328 

Nectar 32s 

Orangeade 320 

Parfait Amour . . , 329 

Persicot .' 329 

BREADS — Des Pains 359 

BAKERS' BREAD 357 

Bread, Buttermilk 339 

Bread, French 357 

Bread, French Loaves 353 

Bread, Light Home-Made 

Creole 353 

Bread, Milk 353 

' Bread, Pan 357 

Bread, Rice 353 

Bread, Rye 353 

.Bread, Sweet Potato 35,9 

Bread, Twist Loaves 35s 

BABA 36i 

BISCUIT 362 

Biscuit, Beaten 362 

Biscuit, Soda and Milk .... 363 

Biscuits, Stewed 363 

Biscuit, Sweet Potato 363 

Biscuits, Tea 363 

BRIOCHES 361 

BULLFROGS 362 

CORNBRBAD. 364 

Corn Dodgers 366 

Bread, Corn Egg 365 

Corn Bread, Nonpareil 365 

Corn Bread, Plain 365 

Cornmeal Pone 365 

Corn Bread, Risen 365 

Corn Bread, Steamed 365 

Corn, Ash Cake 366 

Corn Cakes, Fried 366 

CRACKLING BREAD 367 

Cracknels 373 

■ Crumpets 369 

BREAKFAST CAKES- 
BATTER CAKES (Galettes de 

Pate) 371 

Buckwheat Cakes 371 



404 



Flannel Cakes 371 

GEMS (Petits Bijoux) 369 

Corn Gems _„'j 

GRIDDLE CAKES (Gateau a la 

Plaque) 371 

Griddle Cakes, Bread bi2 

Griddle Cakes, Gornmeal .... 37" 

Griddle Cakes, French 37?. 

Griddle Cakes, Hominy 372 

Griddle Cakes, Green Corn . . 372 

Griddle Cakes, Rice 372 

HOECAKE 36o 

JOHNNY CAKE 366 

MUFFINS (Galettes) 367 

Muffins, Bread 367 

Muffins, Cornmeal 367 

Muffins, Cream 367 

Muffins, Egg- 368 

Muffins, Hominy 36S 

Muffins, Queen -6S 

Muffins, Quick 36R 

Muffins, Rice 365 

PUFFS 37". 

ROLLS (Bourrelet) 359 

Rolls. French 359 

Rolls, Tea 360 

RUSKS 360 

TOAST 360 

Cream or Milk Toast 360 

Lost Bread or Egg Toast 360 

Spanish Toast 360 

SALLY LUNN 369 

SHORT CAKE 36* 

SODA CRACKERS 364 

WAFERS 364 

WAFFLES (Gaufres) 369 

Waffles, Cornmeal 370 

Waffles, Plain 369 

Waffles, Potato -. 370 

Waffles, Bice 370 

Waffles, Risen 370 

OTHER BREAKFAST CAKES. 371 

YEAST, HOME-MADE »7'3 

BIRDS — ^Des Oiseanx — 

BIRDS 133 

Chaud-Froid of Birds 142 

Bird Pie 142 

Invariable Rule for Broiling 

Birds 133 

Invariable Rule for Roasting 

Birds 133 

GRASSBTS, Broiled or Roasted, 141 
LARKS (Alouettes, Broiled or 

Roasted 134 

PABABOTTB 134 

Pababotte a la Creole 134 

Pababotte, Broiled 134 

Pababotte, Roasted 134 

PARTRIDGES (Perdreaux) ... 135 

Partridge a la Creole 136 

Partridge a la Financiere .... 136 

Partridge and Cabbage 136 

Partridge, Breasts of. Truffle 

Sauce 137 

Partridge, Broiled 135 

Partridge, Broiled, -with Sour 

Orange Sauce 13c 

Partridge, Chartreuse of .... 137 

Partridge, Hunters' Style .... 138 

Partridge, Roast 135 

Partridge, Roast, with Bread 

Sauce 135 



PIGEONS 122 

Broiled 122 

Broiled a la Crapaudine . 122 

Compote of 123 

Squab, Roasted 122 

Squab, with Green Peas .... 123 

Vol-au-Vent of 123 

With crawfish 12.? 

POULES D'EAU 141 

Poules d'Bau, Stewed 141 

Poule d'Bau, with Turnips . . . 141 

QUAIL (Cailles) 13.4 

Quail, Broiled on Toast 139 

Quail, Broiled with Bacon . . . 13i) 

Quail, Roasted 138 

Quail (Cailles de Laurier), 

Roasted 13S 

Quail, Roasted in Grape 

Leaves 138 

Quail, Smothered 139 

Quail, Smothered a la Finan- 
ciere 139 

Quail, Smothered, Celery 

Sauce 1-39 

REED BIRDS, (Ortolans), 

Broiled or Roasted . _. 141 

ROBINS (Grives), Broiled or 

Roasted 141 

SNIPE (Becassine) 140 

Snipe, Broiled on Toast .... 140 

Snipe, Boast on Toast 140 

WOODCOCK (Becasse) 139 

'Vf'oodcock, Broiled on Toast. . 140 

Woodcock, Roast, on Toast . . 139 

CAKBS — Des Gateanx — 

General Directions for Mak- 
ing 270 

Directions for Baking 271 

Rule for Mixing Ingredients.. 271 

H9W to Ice 272 

CAKES 272 

Almond 272 

Angel 273 

Angel's Food 273 

Archangel 273 

Banana Meringue 273 

Black 273 

Buttermilk 274 

Bride's 274 

Chocolate Loaf 274 

Chocolate a la Creole 274 

Citron 274 

Cocoanut Loaf 274 

Clove 275 

Coffee 27S 

Caramel 275 

Cup Cake 275 

One, Two, Three. Four Cup 

Cake 273 

Cake without Eggs 275 

Delicate Cake 276 

Dried Fruit Cake 276 

Fig Cake 276 

Fruit 27« 

Fruit Cake, Plain 277 

Ginger Cake 277 

Ginger Bread 277 

Ginger Bread without Butter 

or Eggs (Stage Planks).. 27S 

French Creole 278 

Fruit Ginger Bread 278 



405 



Silver Cake 27S 

Gold Cake 278 

Honey Cake 279 

Imperial Cake 279 

Indian Pound 279 

Lady Cake (White) 279 

Lunch 279 

Madame John's Cake 279 

Marble Cake 279 

Marble Chocolate 280 

Minute Cake 260 

Motley 280 

Molasses, plain 280 

Manque 280 

Nut Cake 281 

Orange 281 

Pearl Cake 281 

Picayune Cake 272 

Premium Cake 281' 

Pound Cake 281 

Pound Cake (No. 2) 282 

Pound Cake, White 282 

Plum Cake, or Old-Fashioned 

Wedding Cake 283 

Haisin Cake 282 

Spanish Cake 283 

Spice Cake 283 

Spiced Molasses Cake 283 

Sponge Cake, Cream 283 

Sponge Cake, Quick 283 

Sponge Cake, White 284 

Tutti-Frutti Cake 284 

White Mountain 284 

White Cream Cake 284 

Twelfth Night, or King's Cake 284 

CAKES, I^AYER — ^Des Gateaux^ 

LATER CAKES 286 

Almond Cake 2s6 

Banana Layer Cake 285 

Chocolate Layer Cake 2^6 

Cocoanut Layer 286 

Cream Layer 2 87 

Pig Layer 287 

Jeily Layer Cake 287 

Lemon I«nyer 2>7 

Orange Liayer 287 

Pecan Layer 2S7 

Pineapple I,ayer 287 

Raisin Cake 2SS 

Kainbow Cake 283 

Layer Cake of Fresh Fruits.. 2.JS 

CANAPES — Canapes — 

CANAPES !*'<■! 

Anchovy Canapes l'>3 

Anchovy Canapes, with Hard- 

Po'led Eggs lf)3 

Anchovy Canapes, Creole 

Style 153 

Anchovy Canapes, Cracker . . 134 
Anchovy Canapes v/ith Gru- 

yere Cheese 1*>'' 

Caviar Caiapes 1^5 

Canapes, Cheese l^j 

Canapes, Chicken 1S5 

Canapes of Chicken Livers.. 18.) 

Canapes, Codfish 183 

Canapes, Creole ISii 

Canapes, Crab 1^^ 

Cannelons 15' 

Canapes, Fish 1=5 



C&napes, Itam .. ., 185 

Canapes of Potted Ham .... 1S6 

Canapes, Hunter's Style 184 

Canapes, Indian ISo 

Canapes, Louisiana ISC 

Canapes, Olives 186 

Canapes, Oysters 18i3 

Canapes, of Potted Tongue . . 186 

Canapes, Sardine 1S8 

Canapes, Spanish 186 

CIl-REALS— 

CEREALS 174 

Barley ..'. 17S 

Buckwheat 17-i 

Corn . 17!) 

Cornmeal Mush 177 

Farina 171 

Farina Gruel 174 

Grrts 176 

Grits, Boiled 176 

Grits, Baked 176 

Hominy, Boiled 177 

Hominy, Croquettes 177 

Hominy, Fried 177 

Hominy Lye, or Samp 177 

Milk Porridge 178 

Oats 175 

Oatmeal 17.') 

Oatmeal, Steamed 17b 

Oat Flakes 175 

F.ye 175 

F^ye Mush 175 

Wheat 174 

Wheat, Cracked 174 

CHEESE — Du Fromage — 

CHEESE 181 

Biscuits 182 

Cieam 18^ 

Fondue 182 

Rarebit, Welsh 182 

Ramakins 181 

Straws 182 

Scuffle 3 81 

Toasted 183 

COMPOTES — ^Des Compotes — 

COMPOTES - 237 

Apple 237 

Apple, Stuffed 238 

Apricot 238 

Banana 238 

I'.anana Cassa 238 

Blackberries 238 

Cherries 238 

Cocoanut 238 

Cranberries • • ■ ■ 239 

Currants 239 

Damsons 239 

Dried I'ruits 239 

Figs 239 

Figs a la Creole 239 

Lemons 239 

Malaga Grapes 239 

Mespilus 239 

Oranges 240 

Peaches ' 240 

Pears 240 

Plums 240 

Pineapple 240 

Plantain, Creole Style ^40 



406 



Plantain, Old Style 241 

Pomegranates 241 

Pruufs 241 

Raspberries 241 

■ Strawberry 241 

COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, COCOA, 
. TEA, — Cafe, Cliocolat, Ciicao, 
<1u The^ 

CHEOBB COFFEE (Cafe a. la 

Creole) 9 

Cafe au Lait 11 

Cafe Noir ' 10 

Be£t Ingreiients' for lu 

■How. to Parch 10 

How to Make 10 

The Creole Rule for 10 

Chocolate 331 

Cocoa 331 

Tea 330 

COUPS DE MILIEU— Middle Conrse 
Drinks — 

COUPS DB MILIEU 308 

Cardinal Puncli 30S 

Creole Punch 30i) 

Frozen Champagne Punch . . 301* 

Imperial. Puncli 309 

Kirsch Punch 309 

Louisiana Puncli 3utf 

Roman Punch 310 

Royal Sherbet 310 

CREAM DESSERTS — Des Cremes — 

CREAM DESSERTS 261 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR 

MAKING 261 

Almond Cream, Sweet 263 

Burnt Cream 263 

Chestnut Cream 26ii 

Chocolate Cream 263 

Creamed Coffee ' 263 

Foamy Cream 262 

Foamy Cream, with Rum .... 262 

Gelatine 261 

Light Cream 26?. 

Macaroon Cream 263 

Peanut Cream 2C4 

Snow Cream 264 

Whipped Cream 261 

White Coffee Cream 263 

Whipped Cream, with Curacoa 2«3 
Whipped Cream, with Coffee.. 2C2 
Whipped Cream, with Cognac 262 
Whipped Cream, with Kirsch. 262 
Whipped Cream, with Liquors 262 
Whipped Cream, with Mara- 
schino 252 

Whipped Cream with Peaches, 

Cherries 262 

Whipped Cream and Straw- 
berries, Raspberries, Black- 
berries 262 

Whipped Cream, with Vanilla, 

etc 262 

CREAM DESSERTS, BAVARIAN— 
Ravarolsc—.. 

BAVARIAN CREAMS (Bava- 

roise) 26.1 

Apricot Bavarian C;'eam .... 261 



Caramel Bavarian Cream .... 265 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream . . 265 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 265 

Orange Bavarian Cream .... 265 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream .. 265 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream . . 265 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 264 

Spanish Cream 265 

Velvet Cream ^ 266 

Wine Cream 263 

CREAM CUSTARDS AND OTHER 
DESSERTS — Des Flaus, et Autre 
Desserts — 

CUSTARD AND OTHER DES- 
SERTS 25Y 

AMBROSIA 260 

Ambrosia, Pineapple and Or- 
ange 260 

Apple Sago 260 

Apple Sponge 25'» 

Blanc Manger 257 

Blanc Manger, Cornstarch.... 257 

Blanc Manger, Neapolitan.... 257 

Blanc Manger, Velvet 257 

Charlotte Russe 25S 

Charlotte Russe, Parisian . . 258 

Custard, Almond 258 

Custard. Boiled 257 

Custard, Cup 257 

Custard, Souffle 237 

Custard, Macaroon 258 

Custard, Rice 258 

Custard, Tapioca 258 

Floating Island 25 S 

Snow, Apple 259 

Snow, Cream 259 

Snow, Pineapple 259 

Snow, Orange 259 

Strawberry Short Cake 260 

Strawberry Sponge 260 

CREOLE CANDIES — 

CREOLE CANDIES 3S9 

Coloring for Candies 349 

Carmine 349 

Cochineal 349 

Blue 350 

Green 349 

Orange 343 

Yellow 349 

SUGAR AS EMPLOYED IN 

CANDY MAKING 347 

Caramel 34s 

Burnt Sugar 350 

Lemon Sugar 350 

Vanilla Sugar 350 

Sugar Boiling 348 

The Small Thread 348 

The Large Thread 34S 

The Pearl 34s 

The Blow • 348 

The Feather 348 

The Soft Ball 348 

The Hard Ball 348 

The Crack or Snap ....... 34i; 

To Clarify Sugar 349 

BON-BONS 342 

Bon-Bons, Cream 34S 

Bon-Bons, Chocolate Cream.. 34? 
Bon-Bons, Cherry and Noyau 

Cream J45 



Bon-Bons, Coffee and Cognac 

Cream 34g 

.Bon-Bons, Liemon and Mara- 
schino Cream 347 

Bon-Bons, Liqueur 345 

Bon-Bons, Orange Cream .... 347 

Ca.ndy Drops 342 

Cream Peanuts 347 

Crystallized Oranges 345 

Crystallized Orange Blossoms 345 

Crystallized Rose Petals 345 

Crystallized Violets 345 

Crystallized Watermelon ... 345 

DRAGEES 34i 

LOZENGES 347 

■Lozenges, Cough 347 

CARAMELS '. 342 

Caramel, Chestnuts 342 

Caramel, Chocolate 342 

Caramel, Oranges 34j 

Cream Peanuts ; 347 

Marshmallow ; 344 

MOLASSES CANDY ; . . 341 

La Colle 341 

Pop-Corn Candy 341. 

Mais "Tac-Tac" 1 342 

NOUGAT 344 

Nougats, Parisian 344 

PASTILLES 343 

Pastilles, Cream 343 

Pastilles, Fruit 343 

iPastilles, Ginger 343 

'Pastilles, Health , . . 343 

Pastilles, Lemon 343 

.Pastilles, Liqueur 343 

Pastilles, to Relieve Thirst.. 3 43 

Pastilles, Marshmallow Drops 344 

Pastilles, Peppermint Drops.. 344 

Pastilles, Rose 343 

Pastilles, Orange 343 

PBAHNES 339 

Almond Pralines 340 

Cream Pralines 340 

.Peanut Pralines 341 

Pecan Pralines 340 

Pink Pralines 340 

White Pralines 339 

Sug'ar Plums 345 

F.GGS — Des Oenfs— 

EGGS .■ 162 

A la Poulette 164 

Beauregard 164 

Boiled 16; 

, Creole Omelet 164 

Fried 163 

Fondue 163 

Ham Omelet 164 

Kidney Omelet . . . . ; 165 

Mushroom Omelet ; 165 

Onion Omelet 165 

Omelet Soilffle 165 

Parsley Omelet ....'. 165 

Plain Omelet 161 

Poached 163 

.Rum Omelet 165 

Scrambled 153 

Scrambled, with Asparagus 

Tips 164 

Scrambled with Ham 163 

Scrambled with Preserves.. 163 

Shirred 16* I 



407 



Truffle Omelet 165 

With Ham igg 

PRAPPES — 

FRAPPES 326 

Absinthe Frappe 326 

Appetizer . ; 327 

Crerae de Menthe Frappe.... 328 

Creme de Noyau Frappe.... 326 

Coffee Frappe 327 

Old-Fashioned Creole Cock- 
tails 327 

Pousse, Cafe 327 

Vermouth Frappe 327 

FISH — Du Foisson — 

FISH 3B 

Au Gratin 3s 

Balls 4a 

Canned 69 

Chowder 49 

Croquettes ; is 

S'resh 38 

General Rule for Baking 3S 

General Rule for Boiling.... 37 

General Rule for Broiling.... 37 

General Rule for Frying .... 38 

General Rule for Stewing ... 38 

How to Tell Good Fish 36 

Methods of Cooking 37 

Short Resume of Louisiana 

Varieties 38 

Salt 69 

Shell 53, 62 

Soups 19 to 23 

ANCHOVY (Des Anchois) 71 

Anchovy Salad 72 

Anchovy Canapes 183, 184 

BLUEFISH (Poisson Bleu) 47 

Bluefish, Broiled 47 

CODFISH (De la Morue) 69 

Codfish Balls 70 

Codfish, Bacalao 70 

Codfish, Boiled 69 

Codfish, Creamed 70 

Codfish, Fried C9 

Codfish, Stewed 69 

CRABS (Des Crabes) 63 

Crabs, Hard-Shell 64 ' 

Crabs, Hard-Shell, Boiled 64 

Crabs, Hard-Shell, Croquettes 66 

Crabs, Hard-Shell, Deviled.. 65 

Crabs, Hard-Shell, Fried.... 64 
Crabs, Hard-shell, How to 

Eat 64 

Crabs, Hard-shell, Pie of .... 66 
. Crabs, Hard-shell, Salad of . . ,66 

Crabs, Hard-shell, Salad No. 2 66 

Crabs, Hard-shell, Scalloped. . 66 

Crabs, Hard-shell, Stewed.... 64 

Crabs, Hard-shell, Stuffed 65 

Crabs, Hard-shell, Stuffed 

No. 2 65 

Crabs, Soft-shell 67 

Crabs, Soft-shell, Broiled.... 67 

Crabs, Soft-shell, Fried .... 67 

CRAWFISH (Des Ecrevisses) . . 67 

Crawfish, Baked, a la Creole. . 6>i 

Crawfish, Boiled 67 

Crawfish Bxish 68 

CROAKERS (De? Grognards).. 49 

Croakers, Fried . . •; 49 



408 



EELS, LOUISIANA (De I'Ang- 

uille) 4a 

Eels, a la Maitre d'Hotel .... 50 

Eels, a la Poulette 59 

Eels, Broiled 50 

Eels, Pried 50 

Eels, (Stewed) en Matelote... 4a 

FLOUNDER (Sole) 45 

Flounder, a la Nouvelle Or- 
leans 45 

Flounder, a la Normande 45 

Flounder, a la Orly 45 

Flounder, a la Tartare 4a 

Flounder, Baked 4G 

GROUPER 44 

Grouper, au Gratin . '. 44 

Grouper, Baked 45 

Grouper, Boiled 45 

HERRING (Des Harengs) 71 

MACKEREL— Salt 71 

Mackerel, Salt, Boiled 71 

Mackerel, Salt, Broiled .... 71 

OYSTERS (Huitres a la Creole) 54 

Oysters, a la Poulette 57 

Oysters au Parmesan 59 

Oysters and Bacon 56 

Oysters, en Brochette 55 

Oyster Balls 60 

Oysters, Baked (au Gratin) . . 5S 

Oysters, Broiled 55 

Oysters, Broiled in Shells.... 36 

Oysters, Broiled, on Toast.... 55 
Oysters, Broiled, with Sauce 

Espagnole 35 

Oysters, Coddled 67 

Oyster Croquettes 60 

Oyster Croquettes a la Creole 60 

Oysters, Curried ST 

Oysters, Deviled 57 

Oyster Dressing 14S 

Oysters, Pried 56 

Oysters, Pried, a la Creole.. 56 

Oyster Fritters 59 

Oyster Loaf 61 

Oysters, Minced 5!* 

Oyster Pan Roast 59 

Oyster Patties 60 

Oyster Pie 60 

Oysters, Pickled 61 

Oysters, Raw, in Block of Ice 55 

Oysters, Raw, on Half Shell.. 54 

Oysters, Roasted 59 

Oyster Salad 61 

Oysters, Sautees 57 

Oysters Scalloped 58 

Oysters, Steamed 59 

Oysters, Stewed 56 

Oyster Stuffing for Poultry, 

Pish, etc 143 

Oyster Soups 22, 23 

PATASSAS 49 

PBRCHE (De la Perche) 48 

Perch, Boiled 48 

Perch, Broiled 48 

POMPANO 46 

Pompano, a la Maitre d'Hotel 46 

REDFISH (Poisson Rouge) 40 

Redflsh, Baked 44 

Redflsh, Boiled 42 

Redfish, Bouillabaisse 41 

Redflsh, Courtboulllon a la 

Creole 40 

Redfish, Courtboulllon 



a rBspagnoIe 41 

Redfish, with Tomato Sauce 

(See Red Snapper) 44 

RED SNAPPER 40 

Red Snapper, Baked, a la 

Chambord 43 

Red Snapper, a la Creole 43 

Red Snapper, a la Sauce To- 

mates 44 

Red Snapper, Baked. Simple 

Every Day Recipe 43 

Red Snapper, Boiled 42 

Red Snapper, Bouillabaisse... 41 
Red Snapper, Courtboulllon a 

la Creole 40 

Red Snapper, Courtboulllon a 

I'Espagnole 41 

ROE (Oeufs de Poisson) 51 

SACALAIT 49 

SALMON (Saumon) 71 

Salmon, Mayonnaise of 71 

Salmon Salad 71 

SHEEPSHEAD (Casburgot) 39 

Sheepshead a la Creole 39 

Sheepshead, Baked 39 

Sheepshead, Baked, a la Creole 40 

Sheepshead, Boiled 39 

Sheepshead, Broiled (See Gen- 
eral Rule for Broiling Fish) 37 

SHRIMP (Des Chevrettes) 62 

Shrimp, Baked 63 

Shrimp, Boiled 62 

Shrimp, Bush 63 

Shrimp, Fried 6a 

Shrimp Gumbos 35 

Shrimp Pie 6i> 

Shrimp, Stewed 62 

Shrimp in Tomato Catsup.... 63 
SPANISH MACKEREL (Maque- 

reau Espagnole) 46 

Spanish Mackerel, Broiled . . 47 

STINGAREB (De la Rale) 50 

Stingaree au Beurre Nolr.... 5.'. 

Stingaree, Fried 51 

Stingaree, with Caper Sauce.. 51 

STINGARETTES (Raitons) 51 

TERRAPIN (De la Tortue) 21 

TROUT (De la Truite) 47 

Trout, Green, Boiled 47 

Trout, Green, Broiled ....;.. 47 

Trout, Speckled 4S 

Trout, Speckled, Fried 4S 

Trout, Tenderloin of 4S 

TURTLE (De' la Tortue) 6j! 

Turtle, Green, Steaks of 6? 

Turtle, Green, Stewed 68 

Turtle, Green, Soups 19, 29 

I'ROGS — Des GrenonUlei^- 

PROGS 51 

Progs, a la Creole 52 

Progs, a la Poulette 52 

Frogs, Broiled 53 

Frogs, Pried 53 

Frogs, Saute, a la Creole .... 52 

Progs, Stewed ; 53 

Progs, The Picayune's 51 

Frogs, The Picayune, a la 

Creole 52 



409 



FROZEN FRUITS — Des Fruits 
Glaces^ 

FROZEN FRUITS 310 

How to Freeze Fruits 310 

Apricits, Frozen 310 

Cherries, Frozen 310 

Bananas, Frozen ' 310 

Macedoine of Fruits 311 

Oranges, Frozen 310 

Peaches, Frozen 311 

Pineapple, Frozen 311 

Strawherries, Frozen 311 

FRUIT GRANITS 322 

Orange Granit 323 

Strawberry Granite 322 

Raspberry Granite 322 

How to Serve Fresh Fruits 

and Desserts 241 

GAME— Gtbier — 

GAME 124 

Chaud-Froid of 142 

Game Pie 142 

Something to Remember when 

Cooking Game 124 

DUCKS, Wild (Canards Sau- 

vages) 12V 

Canvasback Duck v . 127 

Canvasback Duck, Broiled . . 127 

Canvasback Duck, Roasted.. 127 

Ducks a la Bourgeoise 128 

Ducks, Stewed 128 

Ducks, Stewed, French Mar- 
shal Style 123 

Ducks, Stewed with Mush- 
rooms 12ii 

Ducks, Stewed with Turnips 128 

Ducks, Stewed, Peasant Style 129 

Mallard Ducks, Boasted .... 127 

Wild Ducks, Cold 12'J 

Wild Ducks, Hunter's Style.. 128 

Wild Ducks, wi^h Olives.... 129 

DUCKS — TEAL. (Sarcelle) 129 

Teal Duck, a la Bigarade.... ISO 

Teal Duck, Broiled 130 

Teal Duck, Boasted 125 

HARE (Lievre) 131 

Hare, Creole Style 13i- 

Hare, Filet of, Sauce Poivrade 132 

Hare, Roasted and Stuffed . . 131 

Hare, Stewed with Onions.... 132 

RABBIT (Lapin) 130 

Rabbit, Hunter's Style 130 

Rabbit, en Matelote 131 

Rabbit, Stewed 130 

SQUIRREL (Ecureuil) 132 

Squirrel, Hunter's Style 133 

Squirrel, en Matelote 133 

Squirrel, Stewed 132 

VENISON (Du Chevreuil 124 

Venison, Cutlets of. Broiled.. 125 

Venison, Hash 3^20 

Venison, Hunter's Style IZb 

Venison, in a Chafing Dish . . 12o 

Venison, Roast Haunch of . . . 135 
Venison, Saddle of, Currant _ 

Jelly Sauce .••••:• 1:1' 

Venison Steaks, a la Poivrade 12o 

Venison, Stewed, a la Creole.. 12j 

Venison, Stewed, French Style 1/6 

WILD TURKEY (Dinde Sau- _ 

vage) 1^^ 



GARDEN HERBS — Des Herbes — 

Anise 225 

Bay Leaf 225 

Bene 225 

Borage 225 

Caraway 225 

Catnip 22& 

Coriander 225 

Dill 225 

Fennel 225 

Geranium 225 

Horehound 225 

Laurel 225 

Lavender 225 

Marigold 225 

Marjoram 225 

Mint 225 

Pennyroyal 225 

Pot Marigold 225 

Rosemary 225 

Rue 225 

Sage 225 

Summer Savory 225 

Sweet Basil 225 

Sweet Marjoram 22,'i 

Tansy 225 

Tarragon 225 

Wormwood 225 

The Herb Bouquet (Bouquet 

Garni) 12 

HORS D'OEUVRBS — Rellslies — 

HORS D'OEUVRES 226 

Anchovies in Oil 226 

Cold Hors d'Oeuvres 226 

Coquilles of Chicken, Creole 

Style ■■ 226 

Creole Timbales 227 

Cromesquies With TrufHes . . 226 

Hot Hors d'Oeuvres 226 

Lamb Sweetbreads In Cases 227 

Lyonnaise Sausage 229 

Macaroni Croquettes 227 

Queen of the Carnival Crous- 

tades 227 

Pickled Tunny 229 

Reed Bird Patties 229 

Salpicon, Financiere Style . . 22^ 

Salplcon a la Montglas .... 228 

Salpicon, Creole 228 

Salpicon, Hunter's Style .... 228 

Salpicon, Louisiana 22S 

Salpicon, Royal 228 

Sardines in Oil 226 

Taraales 22!: 

ICE CREAMS — Des Crcmcs a la 
Glace— 

BISCUITS GLACES 305 

Biscuit Glaces, a la Creole.. 306 

BOMBE GLACES 306 

ICE CREAMS 300 

Ice Cream, Observations on.. 30'J 

How to Make Ice Cream .... 300 

Ice Cream, Ingredients of . . 300 

How to Freeze the Cream . . . 303 

How to Mold Ice Cream 301 

Apricot Ice Cream 301 

Banana 301 

Chocolate 301 

Chocolate Ice Cream with' 

, Eggs Sui 



410 



Coffee 301 

King- of tlie Carnival Ice 

Cream 301 

Lemon 302 

Liquor Ice Cream 302 

Mandarin 302 

Maraschino 30^ 

Neapolitan 302 

Nectarine 302 

Noug-at 303 

Noyau 303 

Orange 303 

Orange Flower 303 

Peach 303 

Pistachio 303 

Pineapple Mousse 304 

Raspberry 304 

Rice '304 

Rose 304 

Strawberry 304 

Tutti-Frutti 301 

Vanillg, 305 

Variegated 30B 

WATER ICES 308 

ICINGS FOR CAKES — Glnoes Pour 
Gateanx— 

Almond Icing 298 

Chocolate Ic-ing 298 

Orange or Lemon 29S 

Colored Transparent Icing. . 299 

Orange Transparent Icincr...., 208 

-Orgeat Paste or- loins 299 

Plain Icing 298 

Royal Icing 293 

Transparent Icirit^ 299 

Water Icing- 299 

Wine Icing 293 

FROSTING — 

Cream Frosting 299 

JAMS, JBI/LIISS — Dos Confitures — , 

JAMS, JRLLIBS 332 

General Directions for Mrik- 

ing 332 

Apple Jelly 33'J 

Apricot 333 

Blackberry Jellv 333 

Blue Plum and Dnnisnn J^^lly 333 

Calf's Foot Jelly . . ., 333 

Cherry Jam 333 

Cherry Jelly . . . ; 333 

Currant Jelly 333 

Currant and Raspberry Jelly 333 

Lemon Jelly 333 

Orange Jelly 334 

Orange Jelly, Crpnle Style. . . . 334 

Peach Jelly 334 

Pear Jelly 334 

Pineapple Jelly 334 

Quince .Telly 334 

Raspberry Jam 335 

Raspberry Jflly 334 

Strawberry Jam 336 

Strawberry Jelly 335 

liAMV — Agnenu — 

LAMB 99 

Lamb's Brain 101 

Lamb's Brains a la Remou- 

lade 101 

Lamb Breast of. Smothered., inn 

tiaml) Ci)0p9> Broiled 100 



Lamb's Feet ' 102 

Lamb's Feet a la Bourgeoise 102 
Lamb's Feet, White Saude . . 10;'. 
Lamb, Filet of, a la Becha- 
mel 100 

Lamb, Filet of. Roasted and 

Larded ' 100 

Lamb, En Blanquette 101 

Lamb, Epigram of 101 

Lamb, Kidneys of, Broiled . . 102 

Lamb, Mince Lamb 101 

Lamb Roast, a la Bearnaise.. 100 

Lamb Roast, with Mint Sauce 99 

Lamb Tongues, Stewed .... 102 
Lamb Tongues with Tomato 

Sauce 102 

LOUISIANA RICK — Le RIz dc la 
Louisiauc— 

RICE 166 

Boiled Rice, Italian Style . . 168 

Bread 170 

Calas 16b 

Croquettes of, witli 'Fruit ... 170 

Croquettes of, wiLli I'iirsluy.. 170 

Curry of Crawflsli 168 

Custard 171 

Custard of. Frozen 172 

Dumplings 171 

Fried 173 

Fritters of 173 

Flour, Croquettes of 170 

Griddle Cakes '. 170 

How to Boil 166 

How to Make a Border of.... 168 

How to Prepare for Cooking. . 166 

Jambalaya a'l. Congri 167 

.Tambalaya, Creole 166 

Jambalaya, Crab 167 

Jambalaya, Shrimp 167 

Left Over 173 

Meringue 171 

Parched 173 

Pilaff of, with Chicken .... 168 

Pilou, French 167 

Pilou au Riz (Chicken with 

Rice) 168 

Pudding of Cream 172 

Snowballs 172 

Souffle 172 

Things to Remember in Boil- 
ing 166 

Waffles 169 

•With Apnlf"!- 170 

With Compote of Oranges... 172 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI — 

MACARONI 178 

Macaroni, How to Boil .... 178 

Macaroni Balls 181 

Macaroni, Boiled, Italian Style 179 

Macaroni, Creole Style 179 

Macaroni, with Daube 180 

Macaroni au Gratin 180 

Macaroni, Milanese Style .... 179 

Macaroni, Neapolitan Style.. 180 

Macaroni, with Tomato Sauce 179 

Macaroni, Timbales of 180 

Spaghetti, Boiled, Italian 

Style 179 

Spaghetti, with Dauhe ISO 

Spaghetti, Milanese Style . . . 179 



411 



MARMALADES — Des Marmalades — 

Directions for Making a Mar- 
malade 335 

Apple Marmalarle 335 

Cherry Marmalade 335 

Orange Marmalade 335 

Pear Marmalade 335 

Peach Marmalade . 336 

Pineapple Marmalade 336 

Quince Marmalade 336 

Raspberry Marmalade 336 

Strawberry Marmalade 336 

Conserve of Grapes 336 

Orange Flower and Rose Con- 
serves 336 

Violet Conserve 336 

MISLOIVS — Des Melons — 

Cantaloup 225 

Muskmelon 225 

Melon on Ice 225 

Watermelon 225 

MENUS 380 

Creole Home Dining 396 

A Suggestion for Each Day in 

the Week 390 

Suggestions for lilconomical 

Menus 397 

Suggestions for Holiday 

Feasts and Banquets .... 391 

Suggestion for Christmas... 393 

Suggestion for Easter 392 

Suggestion for New Tear's . . 392 

Suggestion for Thanksgiving 

Day 393 

Old-Fashloned Creole Holiday 

Menus 394 

Special Menus for Luncheons, 
Buffet Luncheons, Dinings, 

Suppers, etc., for Soirees.. 39.^ 

Special Suggestions for Table 

Decorations 390 

Table Decorations for Christ- 
mas , 394 

Table Decoration for Easter.. 332 

Table Decoration for New 

Tears 2^2 

Table Decoration Jor Thanks- 
giving Day Sii 

The Daily Economical Menu, 

How to Vary 394 

MirTTON — Moaton — 

MUTTON 9^ 

Mutton Chops, Broiled 97 

Mutton Chops a la Brasseur.. 97 

Mutton Cutlets 97 

Mutton Feet a la Lyonnaise.. 98 

Mutton Feet a la Poulette 98 

Mutton Feet, Stuffed 98 

Mutton, Hash »» 

Mutton, Leg of, Boiled, with 

Caper Sauce »" 

Mutton, Leg of. Roast 9b 

Mutton. Loin of, Roast 96 

Observations on 96 

Saddle of. Smothered with 

Turnips ' ' 

Sheep Brains ^^ 

Sheep Brains, Brown Sauce.. aa 

Sheep Kidneys 99 



Sheep Tongues, Smothered . . 99 
Shoulder of. Smothered With 

Turnips 97 

Something to Remember in 

Cooking Mutton 96 

Stew, with Turnips 97 

PASTRY AND PIES — Patisserie — 

PASTRT AND PIES 242 

Pastry, Points in Making .... 242 

Paste, Foundation 243 

Paste, Plain, for Dumplings. . 243 

Paste, Puff 242 

PIES 242 

Pie Crust 242 

Apple Pie 244 

Apple Tarts 244 

Apple Meringue 244 

Banana 244 

Banana Meringue 244 

Blackberry 244 

Cherry 245 

Chocolate Cream 245 

Cocoanut 245 

Creole Cocoanut 245 

Cream 245 

Cranberry 245 

Custard 245 

Currant 245 

Prangipanni 246 

Gooseberry 246 

Green Gage 246 

Huckleberry 246 

Lemon 246 

Mince 247 

Plain Mincemeat 247 

Lenten Mince 247 

Molasses 248 

Orange 248 

Peach 24S 

Peach Moi'ingue 248 

Pear 248 

Pineapple 248 

Plantain 248 

Plantain Meringue 248 

Pumpkin •. . . . 248 

Raspberry 249 

Strawberry 249 

Sweet Potato Custard 249 

Vol-au-Vent 249 

Oyster Patties 250 

PICKLING AND CANNING — Conser- 
vation des Substances Allmen- 
talres et Vcgetales — 

PICKLING AND CANNING 357 

Methods of 350 

Canned Corn 350 

Canned Green Peas 361 

Canned Mushrooms 351 

Canned Tomatoes . ., 351 

CATSUPS 354 

Catsup, Tomato 354 

Catsup, Red Pepper, a la Cre- 
ole 355 

CREOLE MUSTARD 355 

MAUNSELL- WHITE 355 

PICKLES 351 

Home-Made Chow-Chow .... 352 

Green Pepper Pickles 352 

Green Tomato Pickles 353 

Pickled Fruits 354 

Mixed Pickles 352 



412 



Pickled Cauliflower 362 

Pickled Mangoes 353 

Pickled Onion-S' 353 

Pickled String Beans 354 

Pickled Watermelon Rind . • . 354 

VINEGARS 354 

Chervil Vinegar 354 

Pepper Vinegar 354 

Spiced Vinegar 355 

Tarragon Vinegar 355 

SALTED ALMONDS 356 

Salted Almonds 356 

Salted Peanuts 356 

TABASCO 355 

PORK — Du Cochon — 

PORK 103 

Guides in Choosing 103 

EACON (Petit Sale) 107 

Bacon, Boiled 107 

Bacon, Fried 107 

HAM (Jambon) 106 

Ham, Boiled 106 

Ham, Broiled 106 , 

Ham, Broiled, with Cucumber 

Garnish 106 i 

Ham, Croquettes 107 

Ham, Fried 106 

Ham Souffle 107 

HOGSHEAD CHEESE 105 

PIG (Cochon de Lait) 103 

Pig, Roasted and Stuffed 103 

Pigs Feet 104 

Pigs' Feet, Piquant Sauce.... 104 

Pigs' Feet, Sauce Robert .... 104 

Pigs' Feet, St. Hubert Sauce.. 105 

Pigs' Feet, Madeira Sauce .... 105 
Pigs' Feet, Stuffed a la Peri- 

gueux 105 

Pigs* Feet, Tartar Sauce .... 104 

Pigs' Feet, Tomato Sauce.... 104 

PORK (Du Cochon) 103 

Pork Chops, Fried 104 

Pork, Pickled ,. 105 

Pork, Roast *. 103 

Pork, Roast, Loin- of 103 

Pork, Spare Ribs of 104 

Pork, Tenderloin 104 

POULTRY — Dc la Volatile — 

POULTRY 109 

Guides in Buying 110 

How to Clean 110 

CAPONS 119 

CHICKEN , 113 

Chicken a la Reine 117 

Chicken Balls, Queen's Style.. 118 

Chicken, Boned 118 

Chicken, Boiled 113 

Chicken, Boulettes 118 

Chicken, Broiled 113 

Chicken, Croquettes of 118 

Chicken, Casseroles of 117 

Chicken, Deviled 114 

Chicken, Fried 117 

Chicken, Fried, with Cream 

Sauce 117 

Chicken Livers 119 

Chicken Patties, Queen's Style 118 

Chicken Pie 118 

Chicken, Roasted 117 

Chicken Salad, with Mayon- 
naise Sauce 119 



Chicken Saute, a la Creme. . 113 

Chicken Saute, a la Creole. , . . 114 
Chicken Saute, with Green 

Peas 115 

Chicken Saute, a la Jardiniere 116 

Chicken Saute, a la Tartare .. 114 

Chicken,^ Smothered 116 

Chicken Souffle ■ 117 

Chicken Supreme de Volaille a 

la Louisiana 116 

Chicken Supreme de Volaille a 

la Reine 116 

Chicken with Dumplings 116 

Chicken with Mushrooms .... 115 

Chicken with Rice 115 

Chicken with Truffles 115 

GUINEA FOWLS (Pintade) 119 

GOOSE (Oie) 119 

Goose a la Chipolata 120 

Goose Daub 120 

Goose, Roast 119 

Goose, Fat Livers (Des Foles 

Gras) 120 

FOIES GRAS, Patties of 120 

Foies Gras, Loaf of 121 

Foies Gras Loaf, Jellied .' . . . 121 

Foles Gras, Stewed 120 

TURKEY (Dinde) Ill 

Turkey, Boned 112 

Turkey, en Daube 112 

Turkey. Roast Ill 

Turkey, Roast, with Chestnuts 

or Oysters Ill 

Turkey. Roast, with Mush- 
rooms Ill 

Turkey, Roast, with Truffles., lil 

PRESERVES — Des Conserves— 

PRESERVES 336 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR 

MAKING PRESERVES 336 

Brandy Peaches 338 

Pig Preserves 337 

Fruit Preserves 338 

Lemon Preserves 337 

Orange Preserves- 338 

Oranges (Small) Preserved 

Whole 338 

Peach Preserves 338 

Pineapple Preserves 338 

Quince Preserves 338 

Watermelon Rind Preserves.. 338 

PUDDINGS, DUMPLINGS— DCS 
Poiidlngs, Des Ecliandes — 

DUMPLINGS 250 

Apple Dumplings, Old-Fash- 

loned Creole 25 i 

Blackberry Roll 250 

Boiled Dumplings 250 

Baked Dumplings 251 

Rice Dumplings 251 

Roly Poly 251 

PUDDINGS 251 

Baked Puddings and Dump- 
lings 252 

Apple 252 

Apple Meringue 252 

Banana 252 

• Birds' Nest 252 

Bread 252 

Brown Betty 253 

Cake or Bread 253 



413 



Choo&late 253 

Cottage ..'. 25S 

Cocoanut 253 

Cream 253 

Creole Fig 253 

Creole Summer Pudding .... 259 

Fig 254 

Indian 254 

Baked Lemon 254 

Molasses 254 

Nesselrode 254 

Old-Fashioned Creole Plum.. 251 

Orange 254 

Peach Batter 255 

Plum 251 

Fruit Batter 255 

Pineapple 255 

Raspberry 255 

Sago 255 

Snow 255 

Strawberry 256 

Sweet Potato 256 

Tapioca 256 

The Queen of all Puddings . . 256 

Tipsy Squire 256 

PXJDDIIVG SAUCES — Sauces dcs 
Foudlngs— 

PUDDING SAUCES 266 

Apple 266 

Apricot ^''"' 

Brandy 266 

Hard Brandy 267 

Caramel 267 

, Chaufausen 267 

Cream • 267 

Cream of Butter 267 

Cr6am of Vanilla 267 

Custard 267 

Foaming 267 

Fruit 267 

Golden 268 

Hard 268 

Hard Sauce a la Creole .... 268 

Kirsch 268 

Lemon 268 

Madeira 268 

Madeira Sabayon 268 

Orange 268 

Punch 269 

Runi 269 

Silvery 269 

Strawberry ^°° 

vanilla ' 269 

Velvet .■■ 269 

White Wine ''"^ 

PUNCftl — Ponehe — 

PUNCH ^22 

.Champagne Frappe "^ 

Punch, Champagne ■ • ^^^ 

Flinch, Cham{)agne a a. Creole i^^ 

Punch, Claret ■•■•,•■■ ,,, 

Punch, Claret, Creole Style... 323 

Punch, Claret, Hot ^" 

Punch, Whisky, Hot 325 

Punch, Louisiana "* 

Punch, Milk ; ' , • ' ' ' 

Punch, Orange, New Orleans 

Style °;, 

Punch, Rum °" 

Punch, Strawberry |^^ 

Punch, White Wine «^« 



Punch, White Wine, Creole 

Style 324 

Punch, Tea 324 

Q.UE:]VE3LL.]i:S — Forcemeats — 

QUENELLES 144, 

Chicken Quenelles 145 

Crab Quenelles 145 

Creole Quenelles 144 

Game Quenelles 145 

Godiveaux Quenelles 145 

Fish 'quenelles 145 

Sausiige Quenelles '. 145 

RATAFIAS — 

RATAFIAS 316 

How to Filter 317 

Proportions of Ingredients for 317 
Ratafia, Absinthe or Worm- 
wood 317 

Ratafia, Angelica 317 

Ratafla, Aniseed 317 

Ratafia, Fruit 318 

Ratafla, Of Four Fruits , . 318 

Orange Ratafla , 318 

Orange Flower Ratafla 318 

Peach Kernel Ratafla 318 

Pomegranate Ratafia 318 

Raspberry Ratafia 318 

Strawberry Ratafla 318 

SALADS— Des Salades— 

SALADS 156 

Anchovy 158 

Artichoke 158 

Asparagus, Tips of 158 

Bean 158 

Bean (String Bean) 161 

Beet 159 

Cauliflower 159 

Celery . . . , 159 

Celery Mayonnaise 159 

Chicken . . . . : 159 

Chervil 159 

Corn 159 

Crab a la Mayonnseise 159 

Crawfish 159 

Creole, French Dressing for.. 158 

Cress 15i> 

Cucumber , . 159 

Dandelion 160 

Endive 160 

Fish .160 

French Dressings for •. 157 

Gardener's Wife Salad 161 

Lentil 160 

Lettuce 160 

Louisiana ....... .s 160 

Mayonnaise Dressing 158 

Mustard Dressing 157 

Okra 160 

Peppers, Green, a I'Bspagnolo 161 

Potato 161 

Remoulade Dressing 158 

Russian 162 

Sardine Shrimp 162 

Spanish 161 

Tomato Frappe 161 

Tomato, Green Pepper and 

Onion 1-61 

Tomato Salad 161 

Vinaigrette 15$ 

Watercress 161 



414 



SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, POUL- 
TRlf, GAME, Eyre. — Des Sauces 
Four lea Polssons, des Viandes, 
la Volallle, le Glbler, etc. — 

■ SAUCES 146 

AUemande 156 

Anchovy 147 

Apple 147 

Bearnaise ' 147 

Bechamel 147 

Bordelaise 147 

Bordelaise, Creole Style 147 

Bread .' 148 

Brown 147 

Brown Butter 148 

Caper 148 

Cauliflower 148 

Celery 149 

Chambord 148 

Champagne 148 

Chestnut 149 

Chili 149 

Colbert '. 149 

Cranberry 149 

Crapaudine 150 

Cream '. 149 

Creole 150 

Cucumber 150 

Currant Jelly 150 

Demi-Glace 150 

Devil's 150 

Drawn Butter 150 

Duxelle 150 

Egg 151 

PInanolere 152 

Genoise 151 

Giblet 151 

Hard Egg Sauce 151 

Hollandaise 151 

Horseradish 151 

Hunter's Sauce 151 

Italian 151 

Jolie Pille 152 

Lyonnaise 152 

Madeira 152 

Maitre d'Hotcl 152 

Mayonnaise 152 

Mint 153 

Mushroom 153 

Normandy 153 

Onion 153 

Oyster 153 

Parsley 153 

Pepper 153 

Pickle 154 

Piquant 154 

Poivrade 153 

Poulette 154 

Ravigote 154 

Eemoulade 154 

Robert 155 

Roux, White and Brown .... 1461 

Tartare 155 I 

Toiraaito , 155 I 

Veloutee 155 

Vinaigrette 156 

White 156 

SAUSAGE — Saudsses 

SAUSAGE 107 

Boudins 108 

Boudins Blancs 109 

Creole Sausage i 107 



Chaurice 107 

Chaurice, with Creole Sauce.. 108 
Chaurice, with Puree of Po- 
tatoes 108 

Chitterlings lOS 

Saucisse 108 

Saucissons 108 

Sausages a la Creole ......... 107 

STUPPIIVGS AND DRESSI^fGS FOR 

POULTRY, GAME, FISH, ETC 

Des Parcis — 

STUFFINGS AND DRESSINGS 143 

Bread 144 

Egg 143 

Onionn 144 

Oyster (For Fish or Game) . . 143 

Oyster (For Poultry) 14a 

Stuffing (for Ducks) 143 

Stuffing (For Ducks) 144 

Stuffing (For Geese) 144 

SHERBETS — Sorbets — 

SHERBET 306 

Apple Sherbet 306 

Apricot 306 

Banana 306 

Cherry . 306 

Currant 306 

Grape 306 

Lemon .- 306 

Orange 307 

Peach 307 

Pineapple 307 

Pomegranate 307 

Raspberry 307 

Strawberry 307 

Watermelon 308 

SOUPS — 

SOUPS 11 

General Directions for Making 11 

Boiling- 12 

Bouillon 13 

Bouillon, to Claril'y 13 

Caramel, for Colorlns- 14 

Colorings for 13 

Consomme 13 

Fish Soups 19 

Herb Bouquet, for 12 

Lenten Soups 23 

Meat Soups 14 

Pot-au-Peu a la Creole 12 

Soup Meat (See "Le Bouilli") 29 

SOUPS — Fish 19 

Crab 23 

Crawfish Bisque 21 

Crawfish Soup 22 

Pish 19 

Oyster 22 

Oyster, with Milk ; . . . 23 

Terrapin 21 

Turtle (Green), No. 1 19 

Turtle (Green), No. ;; 20 

Turtle, How to Serve 20 

Turtle, Quenelles or Force- 
meat Balls for 21 

Turtle, Mock Eggs for 21 

SOUPS— Lenten (Potagcs 

Maigre) 23 

Carrot 26 

Chestnut 29 



415 



Coooanut 28 

Cream of Asparagus 27 

Cream of Barley 28 

Cream of Celery 27 

Cream of Corn 27 

Cream of Onion 27 

Cream of Rice 28 

Cream of Tomato 27 

Cream of Spinach . ^8 

Dried Pea , 25 

Fast Day Broth 23 

Lentil 24 

Lettuce 26 

Okra 26 

Onion 28 

Potag-e a la Bonne Femme. ... 25 

Potato 26 

Red Bean 25 

Rice 28 

Sorrel 25 

Split Pea 25 

Summer Fast Day 24 

Vegetable, Without Meat .... 24 

White Bean 25 

Winter Fast Day 24 

SOUPS — Meat — Consomme, 

Chicken 17 

Consomme, Gilt-Edge 17 

Consomme, with Poached Eggs 18 

Chicken Broth 17 

Com 16 

Giblet ; 18 

Julienne 14 

Macaroni 16 

Mock Turtle 17 

Mock Turtle, Forceme.it Balls 

for 17 

Mushroom 15 

Mutton Broth 17 

Noodle 15 

Okra 15 

Oxtail 15 

Pepper Pot 19 

Potage Crout. an T'nt 16 

Queen IS 

Rabbit 18 

Rice ,• 15 

Sage 15 

Savory ■ • • ■ 16 

Squirrel , • ■ ■ ■ 19 

Tapioca 14 

Tomato Consomme 16 

Vermicelli 1* 

SOUP MEAT — l,e Rouilli — 

ROUP MEAT (T " RT'illi) .... 29 
SOUP — Meat — (nmilli) r>ssi- 

bilities 29 

A la Bordelais^ 30 

A la Bruxelloise 30 

A rindienne 30 

A la Lyonnaise 30 

A la Marseillaise 31 

A la Paysanne 30 

Au Pain Perdu 31 

Aux Papillottes 30 

Bouilli, Gros Sel 32 

Croquettes 32 

Hash, a good every day .... 3^ 

Mirontons 29 

Sausage 31 

Saute a la Lyoftnaise 30 

Saute, with Onions 31 



White Carrot Sauce 31 

With Lettuce 31 

With Tomatoes 30 

SUGGESTIONS TO HOUSEKEEP- 
ERS — 

SUGGESTIONS TO HOUSE- 
KEEPERS 373 

Cutting, Chopping, Slicing, 

Mincing 374 

Directions for Serving Meals. 377 
Explanation of French Terms 375 
Poods, Seasons when Procur- 
able 383 

Invalids, Coolcery for , 380 

Left Over Food, How to Util- 
ize 380 

Rules for Mixing Ingredients 374 
Use of Broth, Bouillon and 

Consomme in Cookery .... 375 

Use of Wines and Liquors.. 374 

SWEET ENTREMETS — Des Entre- 
mets Siicres— 

FRITTERS (Des Belgnets) 22S 

Apples, Baked 234 

Apple Charlotte 234 

Apples, Fried 234 

Apples, Stewed 234 

Bananas, Fried 235 

Blackberry Charlotte, or 

Raspberry , 235 

Cherry Charlotte 234 

Currant Charlotte 235 

Doughnuts 235 

Fruit Toasts, with Cherries, 

Apricots or Raspberries .... 235 

Orange Salad 235 

Stewed Peaches 235 

Sweet Omelet Entremets .... 235 

Wine and Liquor Entremets.. 235 

PANCAKES (Crepes) 236 

French Pancakes : 237 

French Pancaltes, withjclly . . 237, 

SYRUPS — DCS Sirops — 

SYRUPS (Des Sirops) 315, 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR 

MAKING SYRUPS ; . . 313 

CREAM SYRUPS (Sirsps a la 

Creme) 320 

Absinthe Cream 321 

Bay Leaf Cream 321 

Cocoa Cream 321 

Cherry Water Croini 321 

Cream of Roses 321 

Elixir of Violets 321 

Mint Cream 321 

Mocha Cream 321 

BAU SUCRE 312 

FRUIT SYRUPS 312 

Apricot Syrup 313 

■ Banana Syrup 313 

Blackberry 313 

Cherry Syrup 313 

Cranberry Syrup 313 

Currant Syrup 313 

Currant Syrup, with Rasp- , " ■' 

berries 313 

Grape Syrup 313 

Lemon Syrup 314 

Lime Syrup , 314 



416 



Orange Syrup 314 

Orgeat Syrup 314 

Peach Syrup 315 

Pineapple Syrup 315 

Plum Syrup . .' 315 

Strawberry Syrup 315 

Raspberry Syrup 315 

Vanilla Syrup 315 

Blackberry Vinegar 315 

Orange Vinegar 315 

Pineapple Vinegar 315 

Raspberry Vinegar 316 

Strawberry Vinegar 316 

FRUIT WATERS (Bau de 

Fruits Glaoes) 319 

Aromatic Water 319 

Cherry Water , . 319 

Orange Water 320 

Orgeat Water 320 

Strawberry Water 320 

LEMONADE 319 

Iced Lemonade 319 

Hot Lemonade 319 

Frog Lemonade 3lS 

ORANGEADE 220 

SWBBTBRBADS — Ris de Veau — 

SWEETBREADS 90 

Sweetbreads a la Creme 92 

Sweetbreads a la Pinanciere 92 

Sweetbreads a la Poulette. ... 93 

Sweetbreads Broiled 94 

Sweebreads Crepinettes .... 93 

Sweetbreads, Definition of.... 91 
Sweetbreads, Fried and 

Breaded 93 

Sweetbreads. How to Blanch. . 91 

Sweetbreads in Casseroles.. 93 
Sweetbreads, Larded with 

Mushroom Sauce 91 

Sweetbreads, Observations on 94 

Sweetbreads with Green Peas 92 

Sweetbreads, Smothered .... 94 

Sweetbreads with Truffles . . . . ' 92 

TRIPE — Double-Gras — 

TRIPE (Double-Gras) 94 

Tripe a la Creole 95 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise 94 

Tripe a la Mode de Caen .... 95 

Tripe a la Poulette 95 

Tripe, Pried 95 

Tripe, Stewed 94 

VEAL, — Du Veau — 

VEAL 83 

Guides in Choosing 72 

Veal, Blanquette of 87 

Veal, Breast or Shoulder, 

Stuffed and Roasted 84 

Calf's Brains, with Brown 

Butter Sauce 89 

Calf's Brains, Fried 89 

Calf's Head a la Poulette 88 

Calf's Head, a la Tortus .... 88 

Calf's Liver a la Bourgeoise. . 89 

Calf's Liver, Fried 89 

Calf's Feet, a la Poulette .... 90 

Calf's Feet, Italian Sauce .... 90 

Calf's Feet, Piquant Sauce ... 90 

Calf's Feet, Plain 90 

■Calf's Feet, Sauce Remoulade 90 



Calf's Feet, Tomato Sauce .... 90 

Veal. Cream of &6 

Veal, Croquettes of 88 

Veal, Cutlets a la Milanalse.. 84 

Veal, Cutlets, Breaded 84 

Veal, Cutlets, Breaded and 

Broiled 84 

Veal, Cutlets, en Papillottes. . 84 
Veal, Cutlets, Smothered a la 

Creole 85 

Veal Daube, a la Creole 85 

Veal, en Ratoutille 87 

Veal, Filet of, with Mush- 
room or Truffles 84 

Veal, Fricandeau of 85 

Veal, Jellied 87 

Veal, Liver of. Fried with 

Bacon 89 

Veal Loaf 87 

Veal, Loin of. Roasted .... 83 

Veal Patties 87 

Veal Pot Pie 88 

Veal, Roast with Fine Herbs 83 
Veal, Shoulder of. Stuffed and 

Roasted 84 

Veal, Stewed 86 

Veal, Stewed with Mushrooms 86 

Veal, Stewed with Potatoes . . 86 

Veal, with Olives 88 

VEGETABL.es — DCS Leguinds — 

VEGETABLES 187 

ARTICHOKES 188 

Artichokes a la Vinaigrette. . 188 

Artichokes (French) Boiled . . 188 

Artichokes (Jerusalem) Boiled 188 

Artichokes (Fried) 188 

Artichokes, Puree of 188 

Artichokes, Sautees 188 

Artichokes, Stuffed 189 

ASPARAGUS . . . ; 189 

-Asparagus, Boiled 189 

Asparagus Tips, with Green 

Peas 189 

Asparagus, Vinaigrette Sauce 189 

BEANS (Des Haricots) 189 

Bacon and Beans, a la Creole 192 

Beans (Red) 191 

Beans (Red) a la conde 191 

Beans (Red) Boiled ........ 191 

Beans (Red) Burgundy Style 191 

Beans (Croquettes) 193 

Beans (Lima) , 192 

Bean Polenta 192 

Beans (Red) Puree of 191 

Beans (Red) and Rice 191 

Beans (String) a la Poulette 190 
Beans (String) Boiled with 

Ham 190 

Beans (String) Brittainy 

Style 190 

Beans (String) Butter Sauce. . 190 

Beans (String), Butter Sauce 190 

Beans (String), Cream Sauce 190 
Beans (String), Vinaigrette 

Sauce 190 

Beans (String), Panaches ... 191 

Beans (White) 192 

Beans (White), a la Maitre 

d'Hotel 192 

BUTTERBEANS (Feves Plates) 192 

BEETS (Des Bettraves) 193 

Beets, Boiled 193 



417 



Beets, Buttered 193 

Beets, Sauted in Butter 193 

Beet Roots a la Bechamel. . . . 193 

Beet Roots a la Creme 193 

Beet Tops 221 

BORECOLE OR CURL.BD KALE 

(Chou Vert) 193 

BROCCOLI (Chou Brocoli) 193 

BRUSSEL SPROUTS (Choux de 

Bruxelles) 194 

Brussel Sprouts a la Creme . . 194 
Brussel Sprouts, Sauted in 

Butter 194 

CABBAGE (Du Chou) 194 

Cabbage, Boiled 194 

Cabbage and Corned Beet . . 195 

Cabbage, Creamed 195 

Cabbage, Sauted with Cream. . 195 

Cabbage, Stewed 195 

Cabbage, Stewed with Sausage 195 

Cabbage, Stuffed 195 

Cabbage, Stuffed, with Cream 

Sauce 196 

CAULIFLOWER (Chau Fleurs) . 197 
Cauliflower, Boiled with But- 
ter 197 

Cauliflower, Boiled, Cream 

Sauce 197 

Cauliflower au Gratin 197 

Cauliflower a la Maitre 

d'Hotel 197 

Cauliflower a la Vinaigrette 197 

Cauliflower with White Sauce 197 

CARROTS (Des Carrottes) 198 

Carrots a la Creme 198 

Carrots a laJLiyonnaise 198 

Carrots a la Maitre d'Hotel 198 

Carrots Sautes a la Creole. . 198 

Carrots, Stewed 198 

CELERY (Du Celeri) 199 

Celery with Beef's Marrow... 199 

Celery, Creamed 199 

Celery a I'Espagnole 199 

Celery Fritters 199 

Celery Mayonnaise 159 

Celery Patties 199 

Celery aux Petits Pois 199 

Celery Salad 159 

CEPS (Ceps) 200 

Ceps, Broiled on Toast 200 

Ceps, Stewed 200 

Ceps on Toast 200 

CHERVIL (Cherfeuil) 200 

Chervil Salad 159 

Chervil Vinegar 354 

CHESTNUTS, (Marrons) 200 

Chestnuts, Boiled ■ 200 

Chestnuts with Brown Sauce 200 

Chestnuts, Stewed 200 

CHIVES (Gives) 200 

COLLARDS 201 

CORN (Du Mais) 201 

Corn, Baked a la Creme .... 202 

Corn Cakes 202 

Corn, Creamed 201 

Corn, on Cob 201 

Corn, Fried 202 

Corn, Fritters 202 

Corn (Green), Planter's Style 201 

Corn Pudding 201 

Corn, Roasted • • • 201 

Corn Salad 159, 202 

Corn, Sauted with Butter 201 

Corn Soup 202 



CJorn and Tomatoes 202 

CRESS (Cresson) 202 

Cress (Salad) 159 

CUCUMBER 203 

Cucumber as a Garnish 203 

Cucumber as a Relish .... 203 

Cucumber Salad 159 

CURRY (Kari) 203 

DANDELION (Dent-de-Lion) . . 203 

Dandelion Greens, Boiled.... 203 

Dandelion Salad 160 

EGGPLANT (Des Aubergines) . . 203 

Eggplants, Fried 204 

Eggplant Fritters 204 

Eggplant, Stewed 204 

Eggplant, Stuffed 203 

ENDIVES (De la Chicoree) 204 

Endive with Cream Sauce.... 204 

Endive with Gravy 204 

Endive Salad 160 

GARLIC (De I'Ail) 204 

HORSERADISH (Raifort) 205 

KOHL-RABI OR TURNIP- 
ROOTED CABBAGE (Chou 

Navet) 205 

LEEKS 205 

LENTILS (Des Lentiles) 205 

Lentil Salad 160 

MANGOES (Mangos) 218 

MUSHROOMS (Des Champign- 
ons) 205 

Mushrooms with Cream 205 

Mushrooms, Pried 206 

Mushrooms, Stewed, Spanish 

Style 206 

Mushrooms, Stewed on Toast. 205 

MUSTARD (Moutarde) 206 

OKRA (Du Pevi) 206 

Okra, Boiled ■' 206 

Okra, Stewed a la Creole . . . 206 

ONIONS (De I'Oignon) 207 

Onions, Baked 203 

Onions, Boiled 207 

Onions; Creamed 207 

Onions, Fried 207 

Onions, Glazed 207 

Onions, Smothered 207 

Onions, Stuffed 208 

PARSLEY (Persil) 208 

Parsley, Chopped 203 

Parsley, Fried 209 

Parsley, Green 209 

Parsley for Garnishing Pur- 
poses 2'>.) 

PARSNIPS (Des Panais) 209 

Parsnip Balls 209 

Parsnips, Boiled 209 

Parsnips with Cream Sauce.. 209 

Parsnips, Fried 209 

Parsnips, Fritters 210 

Parsnips, Smothered 209 

PEAS (Des Pois Sees) 210 

Peas (Dried) 210 

Peas (Kidney or Black-Eyed) 210 

Peas (Split) 210 

GREEN PEAS (Des Pois Verts) 210 

Green Peas, Boiled 210 

Green Peas, a la Bourgeoise. 210 

Green Peas, a la Paysanne . . 210 
Green Peas, Canned, How to 

Cook 210 

Green Peas, French Style .... 211 

Green Peas, Old Creole Style 211 
Green Peas, Puree of, a la 



418 



Creole 211 

Green Peas, Puree of. a la 

St. Germain 211 

PEPPERS, Hot (Du Piments) 218 

Cayenne 218 

Chill 218 

Pimentos -x8 

Tabasco 21j 

PEPPERS, Green (Des Piments 

Verts) 218 

Peppers (Green), Sauted .... 218 

Peppers (Green), Stuffed 218 

POTATOES (De la Pomme de 

Terre) 211 

Potatoes, Baked 215 

Potato Balls ; 215 

Potatoes, Brabant 214 

Potatoes, Boiled 211 

Potatoes a la Bourgeoise . . 214 

Potatoes a la Creme 212 

Potatoes a la Creole 214 

Potatoes a la Diable 214 

Potatoes a la Duchesse .... 215 

Potatoes a la Prancaise .... 213 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise .... 213 

Potatoes a la Julienne 213 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel . . 21:3 

Potatoes a laNeige 21!! 

Potatoes a la Parisienne .... 215 

Potatoes au Gratin 213 

Potatoes as a Garnish 216 

Potatoes With Drawn Butter. 212 

Potato Chips 213 

Potatoes, Creamed 212 

Potato Croquettes 213 

Potatoes, French Fried 213 

Potatoes, New, "With Butter.. 214 

Potato Puffs 212 

Potato Quenelles 215 

Potato Snow 212 

Potatoes, SoufHe .. 213 

Potatoes, Steamed 211 

Potatoes, Stuffed, a la Creole 216 

Potatoes, Stuffed, Lenten Style 216 

Potatoes, Stuffed. Swiss Style 215 

PUMPKIN (Des Citrouilles. des 

Giraumonts ou de Potiron) . 218 

Pumpkin, Baked 219 

Pumpkin, Stewed 218 

RADISHES (Des Radis; 219 

Radish Tops 221 

ROQUETTB 219 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT 

(Salsifls) '. 219 

Salsify or Oyster Plant a la 

Creme .'. 219 

Salsify or Oyster Plant a la 

Poulette 219 

Salsify or Oyster Plant Frit- 
ters 220 

Salsify or Oyster Plant, Sau- 
ted in Butter 219 

SAUERKRAUT (Chou-Croute) ; 196 

SHALLOTS (Echallottes) 20i! 

SORREL (De I'Oseille) 221 



Sorrell au Gras 221 

Sorrell au Maigre 221 

Puree of Sorrell 221 

SPINACH (Des Epinaras) 220 

Spinach, Boiled 220 

Spinach a la Creme 220 

Spinach a la Cuisiniere 221 

Spinach a la Maitre d'Hotel 221 
Spinach with Hard-Boiled 

Eggs ,. • • 221 

Spinach au Jus a la Bour- 

geoise 220 

SQUASH (Course) 221 

SWEET POTATOES (Des 

Patates Douoes) 216 

Sweet Potatoes, Baked 217 

Sweet Potatoes. Boiled 216 

Sweet Potatoes, au- Caramel. . 217 

Sweet Potatoes, Fried 216 

Sweet Potato Fritters 217 

Sweet Potato Pone 217 

Sweet Potato. Pudding 217 

Sweet Potato Waffles 217 

TOMATOES (Des Tomates) 22] 

Tomatoes, Broiled 222 

'J'omatoes, Pried 22i 

Tomatoes, au Gratin 2ii 

Tomatoes, Puree of 223 

Tomato Salad 22S 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 222 

Tomatoes. Stewed 221 

Tomatoes. Stuffed 222 

Tomatoes, Stuffed a. la Cre- 
ole 222 

TURNIPS (Des Navets) 223 

Turnips, Baked 223 

Turnips, Boiled 223 

Turnips, Creamed 223 

Turnips Pried in Butter .... 223 

Turnips, Glazed 223 

Turnips, Mashed 223 

Turnip Tops 221 

Turnip Tops a la Creole .... 221 

TRUPETjES (Des TrufEes) .... 224 

Truffles with Champagne .... 224 

Truffles on Minced Toast .... 224 

Truffles, Spanish Style 221 

VEGETABLE PEAR (Mirliton) 224 

WATERCRESS 202 

WINEiS — Domestic — 

WINES, DOMESTIC (Liqueurs de 

Pruits) 327 

Wine, Blackberry 329 

Wine, Currant 329 

Wine, Elderberry 3u'9 

Wine, Louisiana Orange .... 329 

Wine, Muscadine 329 

Wine, Sassafras Mead 329 

Wine, Scuppernongr 330 

Wine, Strawberry 330 

CONCLUSION — The Creole Home and 
Mother. 



^e^mj^ i 






I m ir- 




aoaomsa 




THE PICAYUNE BUIIvDINGS. 



THE PICAYUNE is the oldest paper of the English tongue and, 
with the exception of the French daily, "L'Abeille de la Nouvelle 
Orleans," the oldest paper published in Louisiana. It was founded 



January 25, 1837, in a very small way, by Francis Lumsden and 
George Wilkins Kendall, two practical printers and newspaper men, 
who have long since passed away. Its first great success was won 
during the war with Mexico when Mr. Kendall, acting as its iVar 
correspondent, frequently anticipated in his paper the news con- 
tained in the official dispatches. During the Civil War, and the 
Reconstruction Era which succeeded it. The Picayune shared the 
vicissitudes affecting its constituency. It was issued regularly 
throughout those troublous times but for a brief period in 1864, when 
it was seized by the United States Military authorities and its publi- 
cation suspended. After the war, in 1867, the management of the 
paper devolved upon Mr. A. M. Holbrook, who had for some years 
previous been a partner in the concern, and who by deaths and 
withdrawals was left sole proprietor. Mr. Holbrook died in 1876 
and was succeeded in the ownership and management by his widow 
who, as Miss E. J. Poitevent, had achieved distinction as a writer 
of verse and prose under the nom-de-plume of "Pearl Rivers." Her 
control was the first instance of the successful management of a 
metropolitan daily by a woman, and the progress of the paper during 
her regime is an eloquent tribute to her talent and her tact. In 1878, 
Mrs. Holbrook and Mr. George Nicholson, who had for many years 
been the able Business Manager of the paper, were married, and 
the paper was conducted under their joint management until Feb- 
ruary, 1896, when both husband and wife died within the brief period 
of ten days. The paper then passed, as part of their inheritance, 
to Leonard Kimball Nicholson and Yorke Poitevent Nicholson, sons 
of the preceding proprietors, and was conducted in their behalf under 
the title of "The Estate of' Mrs. E. J. Nicholson," the wife having 
survived the husband, by Thos. G. Rapier, who had long been 
Business Manager of the paper. In 1904, the heirs having attained 
their majority, the Nicholson Publishing Company, Limited, was in- 
corporated and has since conducted the paper. The spirit of progress 
which marked the career of the founders of the paper has continued 
a dominant factor in its management. In 6very particular The 
Picayune has kept abreast of the times. Its mechanical equipment 
comprises the latest and most valuable inventions known to the news- 
paper world ; its news facilities are second to none, and it guards jeal- 
ously its well-earned reputation of being a clean, straightforward 
journal, as valuable in the commercial atmosphere of the counting- 
room as it is welcome in the sacred precincts of the home. 



ESTABLISHED 1860 

T. FITZWILLIAM S CO., 



-LimiTED- 



Stationers, Lithographers, Printers. 

Manufacturers of flat Opei)ir)g BlanH BooHs. 



TRY a 



STERLING FOUNTAIN PEN" 



GENERAL STATIONERY AND OFFICE SUPPLIES. 



zLICENSEEz 



JONES inPROVED LOOSE LEAF LEDGERS 

AND 

PATENT EUREKA FLAT OPENING SHEETS. 



OUR Engraving and Lithograpl)ii)g Departn)ent 

We are prepared to execute promptly orders for , 

Wedding and Society Invitations, Bonds, Stock 
Certificates, Diplomas, Certificates of Deposit, 
Checks, Drafts, Notes, Letter, Note and Bill 
Heads, Labels, Show Cards, Etc. 



JOB PRINTING IN ARTISTIC style 

We solicit your orders for anything you may need in our line, 
and will give theiji prompt and careful attention. 



T. pinWILU^M & CO., LIIWITED, 

324 CAMP STREET. 321 BANK PLACE. 

TELEPHONE /UAIN 993. 

NEW ORLEANS 



It covers wide fields and gathers all the 
news. It is attractive and enterprising 
without being- sensational, It is clean 
and impartial, reliable and progressive. 



ESTABLISHED JANUARY 25, 1837 



Published ^aily and 
J'emi-&)eekly 

Js the Most Popular and influential 
Ifevfspaper in the J'outhvfest 

^t is an independent 
democratic Journal 



Gives the 

Latest 
News 



Promotes 

the commercial, 
mechanica.1, ag- 
ricultural and in 
dustrial interests 
of the Southern 
'People :: :: :: 



Cultivates 

Literature and 
commends itself 
as an exception- 
alSouthern fam- 
ly cf^foispaper 



Uerms ot Subscription 



Sails picayune 

Including Sunday Issue, 
seven papers per week 

12 months $12.00 

6 months 6.00 



UwlcesasTWleel! ipicajune 

Published Monday and Thursday 
Mornings, 10 pages each issue 

12 months, outside 

New Orleans $1 



12 m'ths in New Orleans 2 






PRINTED BY 

THE PICAYUNE JOB OFFICE 

330 CAMP STREET 

NE\A/ ORLEANS. U. S. A. 



