ALBERT  R.  MANN 
LIBRARY 


AT 


CORNELL  UNIVERSITY 


Cornell  University  Library 

TX  715.P6 

The  Picayune  Creole  cook  book. 


3  1924  003  574  187 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  tiiis  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003574187 


OLD  CREOLE  DAYS  IN  NEW  ORLEANS 


The  Picayune 

Creole 

Cook  Book 


FIFTH    EDITION 


CHE  Question  of  "a  good  cook"  is  now  becom- 
ing a  very  vexing  problem.  The  only  remedy 
for  this  state  of  filings  is  for  the  ladies  of  the 
present  day  to  do  as  their  grandmothers  did, 
acquaint  themselves  thoroughly  with  the  art 
of  cooking  in  all  its  important  and  minutest  details,  and 
learn  how  to  properly  apply  them.  To  assist  the  good 
house-wives  of  the  present  day  in  this,  to  preserve  to 
future  generations  the  many  excellent  and  matchless 
recipes  of  our  New  Orleans  cuisine,  to  gather  these  up 
from  the  lips  of  the  old  Creole  negro  couks  and  the 
grand  old  housekeepers  who  still  survive,  ere  they,  too, 
pass  away,  and  Creole  Cookery,  with  all  its  delightful 
combinations  and  possibilities,  will  have  become  a  lost 
art,  ii,  in  a  measure,  the  object  of  this  book. 


Retail    Price    at  TimecPlcayune  off  ice         -        $1.25 

By  Registered  Mail      -       -       -     $1.50 


Copyright  1901,  1906,  1910  and  1916  by 

THE  TIMES-PICAYUNE    -    NEW  ORLEANS,  LA. 


PUBLISHED     BY 

THE   TIMES-PICAYUNE    PUBLISHING    CO. 

PUBLISHERS    OF 
THE    SOUTHS    GREATEST    NEWSPAPER 

NEW    ORLEANS,    LA. 
1916 


THE  PICAYUNE  CREOLE 
COOK  BOOK 


INTRODUCTION 


Not  often  is  there  romance  and  a  golden  glamour  about  a  cook  book. 

A  mere  cook  book!  Something  that  you  take  into  the  kitchen  with 
you  and  lay  on  the  kitchen  table,  while  you  turn  the  leaves  and  hunt  down 
an  elusive  recipe  that  escapes  your  memory,  often  a&  you  have  used  it. 
And  when  you  find  it  at  last  and  lay  the  rolling-pin  across  the  open  page, 
What  an  assembling  there  is  of  "the  makin's",  and  what  a  stirring  and 
mixing!  And  how  certain  you  are  of  the  result.  It  is  the  old,  old  recipe 
which  your  mother  used,  and  her  mother,  and  her  grandmother,  and  the 
grandmother  caught  it  from  the  old-time  "Mammy,"  who  could  work  all 
kinds   of  magic   in   that   black-raftered  kitchen  of   the   long  ago. 

There  are  no  rafters  in  your  kitchen  nowadays,  and  you  are  im- 
mensely proud  of  your  tiled  walls  and  your  rows  of  aluminum  and  granite- 
ware  ;  but  it  is  the  same  old  recipe  you  are  working  out,  in  just  the  same 
old  way  I 

It  was  such  cookery  as  this  that  won  the  hearts  of  beruffled  gentle- 
men and  crinolined  ladies  in  the  early  nineteenth  century,  and  made  them 
declare  that  never  were  there  such  cooks  as  in  New  Orleans.  Those 
wonder  workers  of  the  old  kitchens,  what  magic  they  wrought,  and  how 
proud  they  were  of  it !  And  it  was  never  allowed  to  become  a  lost  art — 
no,  indeed.  Rosy  girls  learned  it  of  the  old  colored  women,  and  stately 
ladies  taught  the  art  and  the  wondrous  secrets  to  their  own  rosy  girls, 
and  so  the  magic  has  come  down  through  the  generations,  until — 

Why,  until  it  has  been  given  to  the  printed  page,  and  so  it  is  preserved 
here   in  this  most  wonderful  of  all  cook  books. 

Other  cook  books  have  lived  and  had  their  day,  and  possessed  meri"^, 
perhaps,  but  what  one  of  them  was  it  that  was  ever  the  embodiment  of  a 
time  filled  with  romance? 


IV 

All  through  these  pages  one  will  catch  the  glimpses  of  long-gone  fes- 
tivals, and  of  the  graces  and  courtesies  that  made  them  charming;  of  the 
vifit  and  the  wisdom  that  flashed  back  and  forth  across  the  mahogany;  of 
the  bright  eyes,  now  asleep  for  this  many  a  year;  of  the  gallant  hearts  that 
have  long  since  ceased  to  beat. 

Here  they  are,  in  this  old  Creole  Cook  Book,  which  is  going  through 
its  fifth  edition,  in  response  to  an  outcry  that  arose  when  the  founh  edi- 
tion was  exhausted.  Thousands  of  homes  demand  it,  because  it  is  the  epi- 
tome of  good  cheer  that  belonged  to  old  New  Orleans.  Mothers  must  need" 
give  it  to  their  daughters  when  they  cross  the  home  threshold  to  journey 
away  into  homes  of  their  own.  Strangers  in  New  Orleans,  having  once 
become  familiar  with  the  delightful  and  distinctive  cookery  of  this  city, 
would  fain  learn  how  the  thing  is  done,  and  so  begin  to  ask  for  the  recipes. 
Here  they  are — the  time-tested,  the  incomparable!  Nowhere  is  there  any- 
thing like  it.  Study  it,  madame,  and  follow  the  path  laid  down,  and  you 
cannot  fail  to  arrive. 

How  it  came  about?  From  France  came  the  chefs  of  that  day  to  make 
their  fortunes  in  the  new  world — and  established  themselves  here  with  the 
young  colony.  From  Spain  came  the  best  cooks  of  that  sunny  clime — -and 
settled  down  beside  the  French  artists.  After  awhile  they  borrowed  ideas 
from  one  another.  After  a  still  longer  while  the  people  of  the  new  world, 
who  learned  from  them,  adapted  what  they  learned  to  their  needs  and 
to   the   materials   they   had   at   hand. 

The   result   was  beyond  speech. 

Chefs? 

Perhaps  there  are  still  living  many  of  the  older  generation  who 
haunted  the  old  French  restaurants,  they  of  the  sanded  floor  and  the  in- 
comparable cuisine.  The  names  of  the  great  chefs  which,  became  identi- 
fied with  New  Orleans  in  those  long-gone  years  may  be  still  unforgotten. 
What  of  that  delightful  "Mme.  Eugene,"  who  presided  at  Moreau's,  when 
it  was  near  the  French  Market?  All  of  the  gourmets  of  that  time  used 
to  eat  there,  and  many  a  visit  was  paid  to  New  Orleans  simply  that  one 
might  sit  at  the  table  where  Mme.  Eugene's  famous  dishes  could 
be  set  before  them.  Alex  Hause,  Arthur  Gary— as  one  remembers,  they 
were  at  the  old  Boudreaux  House  at  Miln«burg,  when  that  resort  was 
in  its  glory,  and  the  elite  used  to  make  it  their  meal-time  rendezvous.  As 
for  "Miguel,"  there  must  be  many  who  remember  Miguel,  also  at  Milne- 
burg,  one  of  the  most  noted  of  the  great  chefs  of  his  time.  There  was 
John  Straner,  too — his  place  was  on  the  site  now  occupied  by  the  Cosmo- 
politan Hotel,  in  Bourbon  street.  Charles  Rhodes  will  be  remembered 
by  every  man  who  ever  dined  at  Moreau's,  when  it  was  in.  Canal  street— 
when   that   restaurant   was  one   of  the  most  noted,   not   only   in   New   Or- 


V 

leans,  but  in  the  world.  Victor  Bero — who  of  the  old-timers  will  ever 
forget  him  or  his  magic  cookery?  Micas,  at  old  Spanish  Fort — alas,  that 
he  should  be  only  a  memory  I  Andre  Camors,  who  established  one  of  the 
great  restaurants  of  the  city,  in  St.  Charles  street,  succeeded  by  his 
nephew,  L,eon  Lamothe — this  became  one  of  the  best-known  houses  in  the 
United  States. 

As  for  the  name  of  Begue — ^who  will  ever  forget  the  quaint  dining 
room  near  the  French  ^iarket,  and  the  little  kitchen  looking  into  it,  with 
Madame  Begue,  she  of  the  skilled  touch,  compounding  such  fare  as  never 
mortal  dreamed  of  before.  And  there  are  the  Alciatores,  grandfather  and 
father  and  sons — still  do  they  work  their  ancient  magic  in  places  known 
as  "Antoine's"'  and  "The  Louisiane" — with  all  the  art  of  the  brave  old 
days  brought  down  and  modernized  to  fit  the  brave  new  times. 

In  this  name  alone  one  may  find  the  charm  of  the  French  cookery 
which  belongs  especially  to  New  Orleans.  There  was  one  of  the  name, 
born  in  Marseilles,  set  at  his  life  work  at  12  years  old,  and  becoming  so 
proficient  that  at  17  he  was  assistant  chef  in  a  great  hotel  at  Marseilles. 
There  is  another  of  the  name  who  for  the  past  ten  years  has  spent 
months  out  of  every  year  in  Paris,  learning  new  things — as  the  efficient 
teacher  spends  the  summer  in  the  great  Eastern  universities;  and  who 
has  brought  back  a  diploma  from  Paris — an  honor  of  which  to  be  proud. 

He  is  a  great  chef ! 

He  belongs  to  New  Orleans ! 

It  is  the  lore  of  such  men  as  this  which  has  made  the  Creole  Cook 
Book  possible. 

Men  who  have  begun  to  learn  how  to  cook  at  10  or  12  years  of  age 
have  grown  up,  and  have  passed  their  knowledge  on  to  their  sons.  The 
art  of  the  noted  restaurants  has  spread  outward  into  the  homes ;  and  so 
the  city  has  acquired  its  wondrous  reputation  as  a  creator  of  splendid 
culinary   triumphs. 

But  there  has  been  another  adaptation.  After  the  tidal  wave  of  war 
had  swept  over  the  land  and  left  it  wrecked,  the  housewives  of  the  Creole 
city  had  to  learn  such  rigid  economy  as  they  had  never  known. 

Behold! 

The  recipes  must  be  made  to  fit  slender  purses ! 

And  it  was  done  1 

Therefore  it  is  that  the  Creole  Cook  ■  Book  may  be  taken  into  the 
humblest  kitchen  and  made  to  produce  delightful  dishes  "out  of  nothing." 

That  is  the  magic  of  the  Creole  Cook  Book,  which  The  Times-Pica- 
jrune  is  sending  out  upon  its  fifth  journey  to  meet  its  old  friends,  and  to 
make  new  ones  along  the  road. 

SIIjp  Simpa-J^trajjttttf. 


CONTENTS 


Paok 

CHAPTER  I        Creole   Coffee—    1 

CHAPTER  II  Soups—     2 

CHAPTER  III        Meat   Soups—     4 

CHAPTER  IV       Fish  Soups—    8 

CHAPTER  V        Lenten   Soups—  11 

CHAPTER  VI         The    Bouilli—  15 

CHAPTER  VII       Creole  Gumbo—  18 

CHAPTER  VIII       Fish—  20 

CHAPTER  IX        Shell   Fish—  33 

CHAPTER  X       Shell  Fish    (Continued)—  39 

CHAPTER  XI        Salt   and   Canned    Fish—  44 

CHAPTER  XII        Meats— Beef—  46 

CHAPTER  XIII         Veal— Sweetbreads—  53 

CHAPTER  XIV         Mutton—  63 

CHAPTER  XV  Pork—  68 

CHAPTER  XVI         Poultry—  73 

CHAPTER  XVII       Pigeons—  82 

CHAPTER  XVIII         Game—  83 

CHAPTER  XIX         Birds—  90 

CHAPTER  XX       ..Stuffings  and  Dressings  for  Poultry,  Game  and  Fish,  Etc. —  98 

CHAPTER  XXI        Sauces  for  Fish,   Meats,   Game,   Poultry,   Etc.— 100 

CHAPTER  XXII         Salads— 109 

CHAPTER  XXIII        Eggs- 113 

CHAPTER  XXIV        Louisiana   Rice — 116 

CHAPTER  XXV       Cereals— 121 

CHAPTER  XXVI         Macaroni— 124 

CHAPTER  XXVII         Cheese— 126 

CHAPTER  XXVIII  Canapes— 128 

CHAPTER  XXIX         Vegetables— 131 

CHAPTER  XXX        Hors  d'Oeuvres    (Relishes)— 160 

CHAPTER  XXXI       Sweet  Entremets— 163 

CHAPTER  XXXII         Desserts— 169 

CHAPTER  XXXIII        Pastries  .and  Pies — 172 

CHAPTER  XXXIV         - Puddings— 179 

CHAPTER  XXXV       ^       Custards,  Creams  and  Other  Desserts — 184 

CHAPTER  XXXVI        Pudding  Sauces— 192 

CHAPTER  XXXVII       Cakes— 195 

CHAPTER  XXXVIII         Layer    Cakes— 206 

CHAPTER  XXXIX         Dessert    Cake^— 208 

CHAPTER  XL        Icings   for   Cakes— 216 

CHAPTER  XLI        Ice   Creams,   Biscuits,   Sherbets — 217 

CHAPTER  XLII       Fruits,  Syrups,  Cordials,  Etc.- 226 

CHAPTER  XLIII       Domestic  Wines,  Cordials  and  Drinks — 229 

CHAPTER  XLIV       Jellies,  Marmalades,  Preserves — ^241 

CHAPTER  XLV       Creole  Candies — 246 

CS.XPT'EiR  XLVI        Canning  and  Pickling— 255 

CHAPTER  XLVII         Creole    Bread— 259 

CHAPTER  XLVIII        Suggestions   to    Housekeepers — 272 

CHAPTER  XLIX       Varieties  of  Seasonable  Foods — 277 


Cl)e 
picapune  Creole  Cook  Book. 


(Fifth    Edition) 


CHAPTER  I. 


CREOLE    OOI'FEE. 


Cafe  a  la  Creole. 


Travelers  the  world  over  unite  in 
praise  of  Creole  Coffee,  or  "Cafe  a  la 
Creole,"  as  they  are  fond  of  putting  it. 
The  Creole  cuisinieres  succeeded  far  be- 
yond «ven  the  famous  chefs  of  France  in 
discovering  the  secret  of  good  coffee- 
making,  and  they  have  never  yielded  the 
palm  of  victory.  There  is  no  place  in  the 
world  in  which  the  use  of  coffee  is  moi-e 
general  than  in  the  old"  Creole  city  of 
New  Orleans,  where,  from  the  famous 
French  Market,  with  its  world-renowned 
coffee  stands,  to  the  olden  homes  on  the 
Bayou  St.  John,  from  Lake  Pontchartrain 
to  the  verge  of  Southport,  the  cup  of 
"Cafe  Noir,"  or  "Cafe  au  Lait,"  at  morn- 
ing, at  noon  and  at  night,  has  become  a 
necessary  and  delightful  part  of  the  life 
of  the  people,  and  the  wonder  and  the 
joy  of  visitors. 

The  morning  cup  of  Cafe  Noir  is  an 
integral  part  of  the  life  of  a  Creole 
household.  The  Creoles  hold  as  a  physio- 
logical fact  that  this  custom  contributes 
to  longevity,  and  point,  day  after  day, 
to  examples  of  old  men  and  women  of 
fourscore,  and  over,  who  attest  to  the 
powerful  aid  they  have  received  through 
life  from  a  good,  fragrant  cup  of  coffee 
in  the  early  morning.  The  ancient  resi- 
dents hold,  too,  that,  after  a  hearty 
meal,  a  cup  of  "Cafe  Noir,"  or  black  cof- 
fee, will  relieve  the  sense  of  oppression 
so  apt  to  be  experienced,  and  enables 
the  stomach  to  perform  its  functions  with 
greater  facility.  Cafe  Noir  is  known,  too, 
as  one  of  the  best  preventives  of  infec- 
tious diseases,  and  the  ancient  Creole 
physicians  never  used  any  other  deodo- 
rizer than  passing  a  chafing  dish  with 
burning  grains  of  coffee  through  the 
room.  As  an  antidote  for  poison  the  uses 
of  coffee  are  too  well  known  to  be  di- 
lated   upon. 

Coffee  is  also  the  greatest  brain  food 
and  stimulant  known.  Men  of  science, 
poets  and  scholars  and  journalists  have 
testified  to  its  beneficial  effects.  Coffee 
supported  the  old  age  of  Voltaire,  and 
enabled  Pontenelle  to  reach  his  one  hun- 
dredth birthday.  Charles  Gayarre,  the  il- 
lustrious Louisiana  historian,  at  the  ad- 
vanced age  of  80,  paid  tribute  to  the 
Creole  cup  of  "Cafe  Noir." 

How  important,  then,  is  the  art  of  mak- 
ing good  coffee,  entering,  as  it  does,  so 
largely  into  the  daily  life  of  the  Amer- 
ican people.  There  is  no  reason  why  the 
secret  should  be  confined  to  any  section 
or  city;  but,  with  a  little  care  and  atten- 
tion, every  household  in  the  land  may  en- 


joy its  morning  or  after-dinner  oup  of 
coffee  with  as  much  real  pleasure  as  the' 
Creoles  of  New  Orleans,  and  the  thou- 
sands of  visitors  who  yearly  migrate  to 
this  old  Franco-Spanish  city. 

The    Best    In^rredients    and    the    Proper 
Making. 

The  best  ingredients  are  those  delight- 
ful coffees  grown  on  well-watered  moun- 
tain slopes,  such  as  the  famous  Java  and 
Mocha  coffees.  It  must  be  of  the  best 
quality,  the  Mocha  and  Java  mixed  pro- 
ducing a  concoction  of  a  most  delightful 
aroma  and  stimulating  effect.  One  of  the 
first  essentials  is  to  "Parch  the  Coffee 
Grains  Just  Before  Making  the  Coffee," 
because  coffee  that  has  been  long  parched 
and  left  standing  loses  its  flavor  and 
strength.  The  coffee  grains  should  "Be 
Roasted  to  a  Rich  Brown,"  and  never  al- 
lowed to  scorch  or  burn,  otherwise  the 
flavor  of  the  coffee  is  at  once  affected  or 
destroyed.  Bear  this  in  mind,  that  the 
GOOD  CREOLE  COOK  NEVER  BOILS' 
COFFEE,  but  insists  on  dripping  it,  in  a 
covered  strainer,  slowly — DRIP,  DRIP, 
DRIP — till    all   the   flavor   is   extracted. 

To  reach  this  desired  end,  immediately 
after  the  coffee  has  been  roasted  and 
allowed  to  cool  in  a  covered  dish,  so  that 
none  of  the  flavor  will  escape,  the 
coffee  is  ground — neither  too  fine,  for 
that  will  make  the  coffee  dreggy;  nor  too 
coarse,  for  that  prevents  the  escape  of 
the  full  strength  of  the  coffee  juice — but 
a  careful  medium  proportion,  which  will 
not  allow  the  hot  water  pouring  to 
run  rapidly  through,  but  which  will 
admit  of  the  water  percolating  slowly 
through  the  grounds,  extracting  every 
bit  of  the  strength  and  aroma,  and  fall- 
ing speedily  with  "a  drip!  drip!"  into  the 
coffee  pot. 

To  make  good  coffee,  the  water  must 
be  "freshly  boiled,"  and  must  never  be 
poured  upon  the  grounds  until  it  has 
reached  the  good  boiling  point,  otherwise 
the  flavor  is  destroyed  and  subsequent 
pourings  of  boiling  water  can  never  quite 
succeed  in  extracting  the  superb  strength 
and  aroma  which  distinguish  the  good 
cup  of  coffee. 

It  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that 
"The  Coffee  Pot  Be  Kept  Perfectly 
Clean,"  and  the  good  cook  will  bear  in 
mind  that  absolute  cleanliness  is  as  nec- 
essary for  the  "interior"  of  the  coffee 
pot  as  for  the  shining  "exterior."  This 
tact  is  one  too  commonly  overlooked,  and 
yet    the    coffee    pot    requires    more    than 


ordinary  care,  for  the  reason  that  the 
chemical  action  of  the  coffee  upon  the 
tin  or  agate  tends  to  create  a  substance 
which  collects  and  clings  to  every  crevice 
and  seam,  and,  naturally,  in  the  course 
of  time,  will  affect  the  flavor  of  the 
coffee  most  peculiarly  and  unpleasantly. 
Very  often  the  fact  that  the  coffee  tastes 
bitter  or  muddy  arises  from  this  fact. 
The  ■  inside"  of  the  coffee  pot  should, 
therefore,  be  washed  as  carefully  "every 
day"  as  the  outside. 

Having  observed  these  conditions,  pro- 
ceed to  make  the  coffee  according  to  the 
following  unfailing 

Creole    Rule. 

Have  the  water  heated  to  a  good  bodl. 
Set  the  coffee  pot  in  front  of  the  stove; 
never  on  top,  as  the  coffee  will  boil,  and 
then  the  taste  is  destroyed. 

Allow  one  cup,  or  the  ordinary  mill, 
of  coffee  to  make  four  good  cups  of  the 
liquid,  ground  and  put  in  the  strainer, 
being  careful  to  keep  both  the  strainer 
and  the  spout  of  the  coffee  pot  covered 
to  prevent  the  flavor  from  escaping. 
Pour,  first,  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  boiling  water  on  the  coffee  ground's, 
or,  according  to  the .  quantity  of  coffee 
used,  just  sufficient  to  settle  the  grounds. 
■Wait  about  five  minutes;  then  pour  a 
little  more  water,  and  allow  it  to  drip 
slowly  through,  but  never  pour  water  tha 
second  time  until  the  grounds  have 
ceased  to  puff  or  bubble,  as  this  is  an  in- 
dication that  the  grounds  have  settled. 
Keep  pouring  slowly,  at  intervals,  a  little 
boiling  water  at  a  time,  until  the  delight- 
ful aroma  of  the  coffee  begins  to  escape 
from  the  closed  spout  of  the  coffee  pot. 
If  the  coffee  dyes  the  cup  it  is  a  little  too 
strong,  but  do  not  go  far  beyond  this, 
or  the  coffee  will  be  too  weak.  When 
you  have  produced  a  rich,"  fragrant  con- 
coction,   whose    delightful    aroma,    filling 


the  room,  is  a  constant    tempting  mv^^- 

?a"i?o^us"c°r"eorc\Je^^No!r.7o^  «fen« 
S™d  at  morning  dawn,  at  breakfast,  and 
as  the  "after-dinner  cup. 

If  the  coffee  appears  muddy,  or  not 
cleir,  some  of  the  ".'d  Creoles  drop  a 
piece  of  charcoal  an  inch  thick  into  the 
water,  which  settles  it  and  at  once  makes 
it  clear  Demonstrations  prove  that 
strength  remains  in  the  coffee  grounds. 
A  matter  of  economy  in  making  coffee  is 
to  save  the  grounds  from  the  meal  or  day 
before  and  boil  these  in  a  half  gallon  of 
water.  Settle  the  grounds  by  dropping 
two  or  three  drops  of  cold  water  in,  and 
pour  the  water  over  the  fresh  grounds. 
This  is  a  suggestion  that  rich  and  poor 
might  heed  with  profit. 

CAFE    AU    LAIT. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  In  the 
making  of  "Cafe  Noir,"  allowing  the 
usual  quantity  of  boiling  water  to  the 
amount  of  coffee  used.  When  made,  pour 
the  cofee  into  delicate  china  cups,  al- 
lowing a  half  cup  of  coffee  to  each  cup. 
Serve,  at  the  same  time,  a  small  pitcher 
of  very  sweet  and  fresh  cream,  allowing 
a  half  cup  o*  cream  to  a  half  cup  of 
coffee.  The  milk  should  always  be  boiled, 
and  the  cream  very  hot.  If  the  cream  is 
not  fresh  and  sweet,  it  will  curdle  the 
coffee,  by  reason  of  the  heat.  Cafe  au 
Lait  is  a  great  breakfast  drink  in  New 
Orleans,  while  Cafe  Noir  Is  more  gen- 
erally the  early  morning  and  the  after- 
noon drink. 

Having  thus  bid  its  readers  "Good 
morning,"  and  drank  "with  them  a  cup  of 
Cafe  Noir,  The  Times-Picayune  will  pro- 
ceed to  discuss  Creole  Cookery  in  all  its 
forms,  from  soup  "a  la  Creole,"  to  "pa 
candes  amandes"  and  "pralines." 


CHAPTER  II. 


SOUPS. 


General    Directions    for    Making    Soup—The    Pot-au-Feu,    the    Bouillon    and    thi 

Consomme. 


Uncooked  meat  is  the  base  of  all  soups, 
except  such  as  the  Creoles  call  "Maigre," 
or  fast-day  soups.  These  delightful 
Cream  Soups,  or  Purees,  will  be  special- 
ly treated  later.  They  enter  largely  into 
the  domestic  life  of  New  Orleans,  as  also 
more  particularly  the  Pot-au-Feu,  the 
Bouillon  and  the  Consomme.  These  three 
are  the  "mother-soups,"  for  upon  their 
careful  preparation  depend  taste,  flavor 
and  the  entire  problem  of  good  soup- 
making. 

The  ancient  Creole  preserved  with  few 
modifications  many  of  the  customs  of 
their  French  ancestors.  Among  these  was 
the  daily  plate  of  soup. 

In  France  soup  enters  far  more  largely 
into  the  life  of  the  people  than  in  this 
old  French  city  of  New  Orleans.  The 
morning  cup  of  bouillon  is  served  in  the 
most  exclusive  homes.  A  cup  of  claret 
and  a  plate  of  good  soup  is  the  essential 
morning  portion  of  the  peasantry.  The 
Creoles  relegated  the  morning  cup  of 
bouillon,  but  retained  the  daily  serving 
of  soup  at  dinner,  in  time  introducing  as 
a  '^frequent  substitute  that  exclusive 
Creole  concoction  Gumbo.  No  dinner  Is 
considered  complete  without  either.  The 
custom    has   been   sustained   and   adopted 


by  American  residents  of  New  Orleans, 
The  Creole  housewife  lays  the  greatest 
stress  upon  two  great  essentials  in  th» 
making  of  good  soup;  in  the  first  place, 
the  soup  must  never  stop  boiling  one 
instant  until  done;  secondly,  once  tha 
soup  is  started,  water  must  never  be 
added.  Neither,  on  the  other  band,  must 
the  soup  be  allowed  to  boil  rapidly,  or 
it  will  be  muddy  and  lose  much  of  its 
flavor  and  strength  by  evaporation.  The 
"soup  bone,"  or  "bouilli,"  as  we  call  U 
down  here  in  New  Orleans,  must  be  put 
on  in  cold  water,  without  salt,  and  must 
heat  slowly.  The  pot  must  be  kept  well 
covered,  and  no  salt  must  be  added  until 
the  meat  is  thoroughly  cooked,  as  the 
addition  of  salt  tends  to  harden  the  fibers 
of  the  meat  and  prevents  the  free  flow 
of  the  Juices.  At  no  stage  of  the  pro- 
ceeding must  the  soup  be  allowed  to 
boil  fast.  If  the  bone  has  been  frac- 
tured every  inch  of  its  length,  the  soup 
will  be  all  the  stronger  and  more  nutri- 
tious. The  beef  should  be  selected  for 
Its  quality,  as  freshly  killed  as  possible, 
and  preferably  of  the  cut  known  by 
butchers  as  "The  Horseshoe."  To  '  ba 
most  nutritious  the  soup  should  boll  a 
long  time.     The  Creoles  never  serve  soup 


that  has  been  cooking  less  than  five  or 
seven  hours,  according  to  the  quantity 
to  be  served.  In  a  well-regulated  house- 
hold the  soup  is  put  on  at  brealcfast 
time,  in  the  rear  of  the  stove,  and  al- 
lowed to  cook  slowly  for  four  or  five 
hours,  until  the  time  comes  for  puttins 
on  the  dinner  proper.  In  the  meantime, 
the  fire  has  been  replenished  slowly  from 
time  to  time,  so  that  when  the  moment 
for  adding  the  vegetables  or  other  in- 
gredients arrives,  the  strength  of  the 
meat  has  been  nearly  or  quite  extracted. 

The  two  suggestions,  "Never  allow  the 
soup  to  cease  boiling  when  once  it  has 
begun,  and  never  to  add  water  after  the 
ingredients  are  once  put  together  and  be- 
gin to  boil,"  have  been  called  the  "Golden 
Rule"  of  soup-making.  The  housekeeper 
should  take  them  to  heart,  for  -upon  their 
strict  observance  depends  that  boon  to 
poor,  suffering  humanity — a  good  plate 
of  soup.  If  these  rules  are  learned  and 
reliably  follOTyed,  the  first  step  has  been 
taken  towards  setting  a  good  dinner. 

Rice  flour,  arrowroot  or  corn-starch 
mixed  with  a  little  water  are  often  used 
to  thicken  soups;  but  every  good  Creole 
cook  knows  that  the  soup  that  is  prop- 
erly made  needs  no  thickening.  Salt 
should  be  used  sparingly,  as  also  spices, 
which  should  always  be  used  whole. 

To  be  palatable,  soup  must  be  served 
very  hot. 

It  is  generally  estimated  that  in  pre- 
paring soups  a  pound  of  meat  should  be 
allowed  for  every  quart  of  water.  In  the 
following  recipes  the  ingredients  must 
be  increased  proportionately,  according 
to  the  number  of  persons  to  be  served. 
The  intelligent  housekeeper  can  readily 
determine  the  exact  measurements  needed 
In  her  family,  increasing  proportion;* 
when  guests  are  expected  at  the  family 
table. 

The  Every-Day   Pot-au-Feu,   or 
Simple    Bouillon. 

The  Pot-au-Peu,  or  Bouillon,  is  mad? 
by  boiling  a  good  soup  bone  which  h.an 
been  carefully  selected  for  its  nutritive 
qualities  in  water  a  certain  length  of 
time,  by  means  of  which  the  nutriment 
is  extracted.  Bouillon  of  the  best  quality 
can  only  be  made  from  good  meat,  which 
should  be  chosen  from  the  fleshy,  juicy 
part  of  the  thigh.  Meat  from  the  breast 
or  lower  ribs  makes  good  Pot-au-Feu, 
but  of  a  lighter  quality,  and  is  preferred 
by  some  Creole  euislnieres. 

The  vegetables  used  are  found  in  the 
"soup  bunch,"  which  comprises  pieces 
of  cabbage,  a  turnip  or  two,  carrots, 
parsley,  celery  and  onion.  Many  Creole 
cooks  add  garlic  and  cloves,  thyme,  bay 
leaf  and  allspice.  But  this  is  a  matter  of 
taste.  The  every-day  Bouillon  is  made 
by  boiling  the  soup  bone  for  four  or  five 
hours,  skimming  carefully  as  the  scum 
rises,  and  adding,  as  it  starts  boiling 
well,  the  vegetables  contained  in  the 
"soup  bunch."  If  vermicelli,  macaroni 
or  other  soup  is  desired,  such  as  can  be 
made  from  the  simple  Bouillon,  or  Pot- 
au-Feu,  these  ingredients  are  added  in 
the  proportions  mentioned  in  the  special 
recipe  for  these  soups,  and  the  soup  is 
boiled  an  hour  or  so  longer. 

The    Herb    Bouqnet. 

Every  good  Creole  cook  keeps  on  hand 
an  "herb  bouquet,"  made  of  a  spray  of 
parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  celery  and 
bay  leaf.  These  are  tied  together, 
*nd  constitute  the  "bouquet."  It  wiil 
flavor  a  gallon  of  soup,  if  cooked  for  an 
hour. 


Pot-au-Feu    a   la    Creole. 

4   Pounds    of   Lean   Beef. 

6  Quarts  of  Cold  Water. 

2    Small    Turnips.     2    Onions.     2    Carrots. 

1  Parsnip.    1  Cup  of  Cut-up  Tomatoes. 

2   Whole   Cloves.     . 

1  Bay  Leaf.  1  Clove  of  Garlic.  5  Allspice. 

.'  2   Irish   Potatoes. 

Small  Piece  of  Lemon  Peel. 

Small  Piece  of  Red  Pepper  Pod. 

Bunch    of   Celery   Leaves    (Chopped). 

Bunch  of  Parsley  (Chopped). 

Pinch    of    Salt.     Pinch    of    Black    Pepper. 

Sprig  "of   Cabbage. 

This  Pot-au-Feu,  .properly  made,  is 
truly  delicious,  savory  and  delicately 
odorous.  The  best  cut  for  this  is  from 
the  round  lower  end  of  the  beef.  Many 
of  the  Creoles  add  the  beef  spleen  or 
brisket  to  the  soup.  This  is  rich  and 
juicy,'  and  gives  nutritive  value  to  the 
dish.  If  delicacy  is  preferred  to  rich- 
ness in  the  soup,  the  ma,TTaw  bone  is 
omitted.  Put  the  meat  into  cold  water, 
heating  by  slow  degrees  in  order  that  It 
may  gradually  penetrate  the  meat,  soften- 
ing it  and  dissolving  the  non-nutritive 
portion,  which  rises  to  the  top  of  th3 
liquid  as  a  scum.  As  the  scum  becomes 
thicker  remove  it.  After  having  skimmed 
well,  set  the  soup  back  where  it  can  be 
kept  on  a  gentle  but  steady  boll;  when 
the  soup  is  well  skimmed,  add  the  vege- 
tables, which  have  been  cut  to  proper 
fineness,  and  a  little  salt  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  let  the  soup  continue  to  boil 
from  /ive  to  six  hours,  remembering 
strictly  the  two  essential  rules  given.  By 
following  this  recipe  you  will  have  an 
excellent    soup. 

The  Creoles  often  serve  the  Pot-au-Feu 
with  small  squares  of  dry  or  toasted 
bread,  put  into  the  tureen,  and  the  hot 
soup  is  poured  over  them  at  the  moment 
of   serving. 

Should  the  flavor  of  the  garlic,  all- 
spice, cloves  or  bay  leaf  be  disagreeable, 
they  ma;r  be  omitted.  But  they  are  es- 
sential ir  gredients  of  the  Creole  Pot-au- 
Feu. 

A  particularly  delicate  flavor  is  often 
obtained  by  adding  to  the  beef  some 
pieces  of  raw  fowl,  or  the  remains  of  a 
cooked  fowl,  more  especially  the  carcass. 
But  never  add  remains  of  mutton,  pork 
or  veal,  as  these  meats  impart  an  acrid 
odor,  detracting  from  the  perfection  of 
the   Pot-au-Feu. 

Bouillon. 

To  make  a  good  Bouillon  is  an  art 
in  itself.'  It  is  the  soup  that  most  fre- 
quently, after  the  Pot-au-Feu,  enters  into 
the  economy  of  the  Creole  household.  It 
is  not  only  used  in  the  daily  menu,  but 
on  occasions  of  family  reunions  and 
soirees,  is  served  cold  or  warm  in  oups. 
It  is  always  prepared  in  a  concentrated 
form  for  the  use  of  invalids.  In  illness, 
where  the  quantity  administered  is  re- 
quired to  be  as  nutritious  as  possible,  the 
round  steak  should  always  be  chosen  for 
the  Bouillon,  and  it  is  decidedly  better 
not  to  clear  the  soup,  as  the  process  of 
clearing  not  only  destroys  a  great  deal 
of  the  delicate  flavor,  but  also  of  the 
nutriment   contained  in  the   Bouillon. 

Select  good  fresh  beef,  and  where  in- 
tended for  an  invalid  allow  two  pounds 
of  beef  to  every  quart  of  water.  The 
Bouillon  should  always  boil  from  six  to 
seven  hours.  For  dinners,  luncheons, 
etc.,  the  following  proportions  may  be 
used: 


6  Pounds  of  Beef,  wittiout  Bone  or  Fat 

6   Quarts   of   Cold   Water. 

4   Cloves.     6   Allspice. 

A  Small  Cup  of  Fresh  or  Canned  Toma- 

toes. 

1  Teaspoon  of  Salt. 

1    Spoon    of    Celery    Seed. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

A    Piece     of    Red     Pepper     Pod,     without 

Seeds. 

(Omit  for  the  Sick.) 

1  Clove  of  Garlic  (Omit  for  the  Sick). 

Put  these  ingredients  into  the  soiip 
kettle,  after  the  Bouillon  has  been 
brougrht  to  a  boil.  Then  set  aside  and  let 
it  simmer  gently,  but  never  allow  the 
soup  to  rack.  After  two  and  a  half 
hours  add 

A  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1  Onion,  cut  in  pieces. 

1  SYnall  Bunch  of  Celery,  if  you  have  not 

used  the  seed. 

1  Medium -Sized  Carrot,  chopped  fine. 

Replace  the  cover  and  let  the  Bouillon 
boil  gently  for  two  and  one-half  hours 
more,  making  five  hours  of  actual  boil- 
ing, when  not  intended  for  invalid  use. 
At  this  stage,  from  the  quantity  of  in- 
gredients used  in  the  above  recipe,  the 
Bouillon  will  measure  about  three  quarts 
for  family  use.  If  you  decide  not  to  clar- 
ify the  soup,  set  it  aside  and  let  it  settle 
then  carefully  pour  off  the  upper  por- 
tion, but  do  not  shake  the  hcwl  or  dis- 
turb the  sediment.  The  Creoles  then  add 
about  a  tablespoonful  of  celery  and  a 
little  cayenne.  This  soup  requires  no 
artificial  coloring,  its  own  strength  and 
long  boiling  producing  a  beautiful  tint. 
Should  a  greater  quantity  be  required, 
the  housekeeper  will  guide  herself  ac- 
cording to  the  proportions  given  in  this 
recipe. 

To    Clarify    Bouillon. 

To  clarify  Bouillon,  remove  the  fat  and 
pour  the  broth  into  a  clear  kettle.  Add 
Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  from  the  moment 
the  crushed  shells  of  two  eggs.  Stir 
this  into  the  cold  soup  until  well  mixed. 
it  begins  to  boil  let  it  cook  steadily  ten 
minutes  longer.  Set  it  back  on  the  stove 
or  hearth  for  four  or  five  minutes  to 
settle.  Then  strain  it  through  a  to-wel. 
Allow  the  Bouillon  to  drip,  remembering 
never  to  squeeze  the  bag.  A  very  clear 
soup  is  never  a  very  nutritious  one. 

Consomine. 

6  Pounds  of  Lean  Beef. 

2  Large-Sized  Onions. 

2  Carrots.     2  Stalks  Celery. 

1  Piece  of  Cabbage. 
Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

A  Consc-mme  is  a  clear  soup. 

Select  six  pounds  of  lean  beef,  rump 
of  beef  and  some  bones,  and  cut  the  meat 
into    small    pieces,    the    bones   also    being 


mashed.  Put  this  on  in  about  six  quarts 
SI  co?d  water,  and.  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  skim  well.  Add  a  teaspconful  of 
salt  to  help  the  scum  rise  more  tnor- 
oughlv  and  skim  as  it  rises.  Take  two 
large-sized  onions,  two  carrots,  a  piece 
of  cabbage  and  two  pieces  of  celery;  chop 
fine  and  add  to  the  soup,  and  let  it  boU 
six  hours,  or  until  the  broth  is  reduced 
about  one-half  the  quantity.  By  this 
time  the  meat  should  be  cooked  into  rags. 
Pass  all  through  a  colander  and  then 
strain  through  a  coarse  flannel  cloth. 
Season  highly  with  Cayenne  pepper  and 
salt  to  the  taste.  If  the  meat  is  good, 
the  soup  will  be  perfectly  clear.  If  it  is 
cloudy  or  nmddy  before  straining,  crush 
the  shells  or  two  eggs  and  put  them  into 
the  soup  and  let  it  come  to  a  good  boll. 
Set  it  back  abcut  ten  minutes  and  then 
strain.  Add  vermicelli,  or  macaroni,  or 
pates,  according  to  taste.  This  soup  will 
require    no    artificial    coloring. 

Coloring:s    for    Soup. 

Having  given  the  recipes  for  the 
"mother  soups,"  which  are  the  bases 
of  all  soups,  a  word  must  be  said  about 
colorings  for  soup.  While  colorings  have 
been  extensively  used  in  New  Orleans, 
the  good  old  Creoles  long  ago  found  out 
thai  coloring  matter,  whether  in  liquid 
form  or  in  balls  or  tablets,  detracted  from 
the  good  flavor  of  the  soup,  and  that  a 
properly  made  soup  needed  no  coloring. 
The  good  Bouillon  has  a  color  peculiar 
to  itself — a  reddish  yellow,  which  comes 
from  the  juice  of  the  meat.  The  absence 
of  natural  color  in  the  soup  indicates 
that  too  small  an  amount  of  meat  has 
been  used  in  proportion  to  the  water,  a 
poor  quality  of  meat,  or  there  has  been 
a  too  rapid  process  of  boiling.  Still,  if 
colorings  are  desired,  the  following  recipe, 
which  is  free  from  the  deleterious  com- 
pounds sold  in  stores,  has  long  been  used 
by  the  Creoles  for  coloring  gravies,  and 
may  be  used  with  good  effect  in  soups. 
It  is  called  by  the  Creoles 

Caramel. 

Take  about  a  half  pint  of  brown  sugar, 
put  it  in  a  pan,  on  a  slow  fire,  and  lei 
it  burn  or  parch,  slowly  stirring  all  the 
time.  When  it  turns  a  dark  brown,  add 
two  pints  of  water  and  stir  well,  and  then 
bottle.  Put  it  away  and  use  a  few  drops 
at  a  time  to  color  and  thicken  gravies 
and  soup  broths.  Or,  take  a  large  raw 
onion,  skin  and  all,  and  thrust  into  the 
burning  coals.  "When  it  begins  to  brown 
well,  take  out  of  the  coals,  dust  off  all 
the  ashes  and  throw  into  the  soup  or 
gravy.  This  will  give  all  the  coloring 
that   is  needed. 

More  simple  or  satisfactory  recipes  can- 
not be  found.  Nevertheless,  the  Creoles 
maintain  and  demonstrate  that  the  best 
coloring  for  soups  is  that  produced  by 
good   material   and  long  boiling. 


CHAPTER    III. 
MEAT     SOUPS. 


Julienne   Soup. 


Potdge   a   la    Julienne. 

5    Pounds    of     Lean     Beef.     5    Quarts     of 

Water. 

2    Turnips.     2   Carrots.     2    Onions. 

2  Leaks.    A  Small  Stalk  of  Celery. 

3  Tomatoes. 

A    Small    Half-Head    of    White    Cabbage. 

1    Gill    of    Green   Peas. 

The    shin    of    the    beef    is    the    best    to 
make  a  good  Julienne  soup.     Set  the  beef 


and  water  in  a  close  vessel  where  they 
will  heat  gradually.  After  boiling  five 
or  six  hours  add  the  vegetables.  Cut  the 
vegetables  into  long,  thin  shreds.  Take 
a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  heat  and  add  the 
vegetables,  letting  them  fry  or  smothei 
until  a  golden  brown.  Then  add  to  the 
boilmg  broth.  If  fresh  peas  are  used 
they  must  be  boiled  apart.  If  canned 
peas,  simply  add  to  the  broth,  after 
throwing  in  the  vegetables.  Let  them 
cook  in  the  broth  one  hour  longer  and. 
serve  hot  with  the  vegetables. 


Vermicelli    Soup. 

Consomme,   ou  Potage  au  Vermicelle. 

1-2  Pint  of  Broth  to  Each  Person. 

1  Ounce  of  Vermicelli  to  Each  Person. 

Prepare  a  good  Bouillon,  or  Pot-au  - 
Feu,  or  Consomme,  according  to  the 
taste  of  the  household,  the  simple  Pot-au- 
Feu  being  most  generally  used.  A  half 
hour  before  serving  add  tbe  vermicelli  to 
the  broth,  and  serve  hot. 

Macaroni     Soup. 

Potage    au    Macaroni. 

2  Quarts  of  Broth. 
1-4    Pound    of    Macaroni. 

Prepare  a  good  Pot-au-Feu,  or  Bouil- 
lon, according  to  directions  given,  and 
allowing  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ma- 
caroni to  two  quarts  of  broth.  Break 
the  macaroni  into  two-inch  length  pieces 
and  add  to  the  boiling  broth  about  a  half 
hour  before  serving.  Some  housekeepers 
cook  the  macaroni  separately  in  salted 
boiling  water  about  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes, draining  thoroughly,  and  dropping 
into  the  boiling  broth  about  fifteen  min- 
utes before  serving.  The  soup  is  often 
served  with  Parmesan  cheese,  grated. 

Tapioca    Soup. 

Potage  au  Tapioca. 
4  Ounces  of  Tapioca.     3  Quarts  of  Broth. 

To  three  quarts  of  broth  add,  about 
forty  minutes  before  serving,  four  ounces 
of  tapioca.  The  tapioca  should  be  pre- 
,  viously  soaked  a  few  hours.  Stir  fre- 
quently in  the  broth  while  boiling,  and 
serve  hot. 

Sago   Soup. 

Potage  au  Sago. 

3  Pints   of  Broth. 
2  Ounces  of  Sago. 

The  sago  should  always  be  soaked  over- 
night. Allow  two  ounces  to  every  three 
pints  of  broth  or  Cc'nsonarae.  Boil  for 
one  hour  before  serving,  stirring  occa- 
sionally. 

Rice    Soup, 

Potage  au  Riz. 

1-2    Cup    of    Rice. 

3   Pints    of    Broth    or    Consomme. 

Prepare  the  clear  Pot-au-Feu  or  Con- 
somme. Wh-en  nearly  done  add  one-half 
cupful  of  ricft,  which  has  been  thoroughly 
washed  and  dried.  Cook  for  about 
twenty-five,  minutes  longer,  or  until  done, 
and   serve. 

Barley  soup  is  prepared  after  the  same 
style,  using  a  clear  Bouillon  or  Con- 
somme. 

Okra    Soup. 

Potage  au  Fevi. 

2  Pounds  of  Beef  without  fat  or  bone. 

2  Cups  of  Okra,  chopped  fine, 

1-4   Pound    of   Butter.     4   Quarts    of    Cold 

Water. 

1  Onion,  sliced  and  chopped. 

Salt   and   Pepper. 

Cut  the  beef  into  small  pieces,  and 
season  well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Fry  it  in  the  soup  kettle  with  the  onion 
and  butter  until  very  brown.  Then  add 
the  cold  water  and  let  it  simmer  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Add  the  okra  and  let 
it  simmer  gently  for  three  or  four  hours 
longer. 


Ox-Tail    Soup. 

Soupe  de  Queue  de  Boeuf. 

1   Ox   Tail. 

A    Bunch     of     Soup     Herbs.     1     Head     of 

Celery. 

4     Quarts     of     Boiling     Water.     1     Large 

Onion. 

2  Carrots.     3  Cloves. 

A  Sprig  of  Parsley. 

A  Small  Slice  of  Lean  Ham  or  Beef. 

Salt   and   Pepper. 

Cut  the  tail  in  pieces  from  the  joint, 
and  cut  again  into  pieces  one  inch  and  a 
half  in  length.  Chop  the  onions  very 
fine.  Put  the  onion  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  lard  into  a  frying  pan  and  add  the  ox 
tail.  Cook  slowly  until  it  begins  to 
brown,  then  add  the  carrot,  cut  in  pieces 
about  the  size  of  a  green  pea,  and  about 
a  square  inch  of  ham,  chopped  very  fine. 
Let  this  brown,  and  when  it  begins  to 
brown  nicely,  add  the  thyme,  bay  leaf, 
three  cloves,  one  clove  of  garlic,  all 
chopped  very  fine.  Let  this  continue  to 
brown,  being  careful  not  to  burn,  and 
then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
dredged  in  lightly  and  stirred,  and  when 
all  is  nicely  browned,  add  about  five 
quarts  of  Consomme,  if  you  have  it;  if 
not,  five  quarts  of  boiling  water  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  barley.  Let  it 
cook  together  about  four  hours,  simmer- 
ing gently,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper 
and  cayenne  to  taste,  and  when  ready  to 
serve,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry 
wine.  Wine  may  be  omitted. 
Noodle  Soup. 
Potage  au  Nouilles. 
3  Quarts  of  Good  Bouillon  or  Consomme. 
The  Tolks  of  3  Eggs. 
The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 
1  Cup  of  Flour.  1-2  Tablespoonful  of 
Salt. 

Prepare  a  good  Bouillon  or  Consomme. 
To  a  quart  of  the  soup,  add  noodles  made 
as  follows:  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
and  the  whites  of  two  together  until  very 
light;  add  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  mix  with  cold 
water;  making  a  stiff  paste;  roll  very 
thin;  then  roll  each  strip  to  form  a  tube; 
cut  in  strips,  grease  and  simmer  a  few 
at  a  time  in  boiling  salt  water  for  about 
twenty  minutes.  Simmer  the  noodles  in 
the  soup  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Mushroom    Soup. 

Potage    au    Champignones. 

-       1-4  Pound   of  Good  Macaroni. 

1-4  Pound  of  Fresh  Mushrooms  or  a  Half 

Can  of  Mushrooms. 

1-2  Carrot  and   Onion. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Pints  of  Consomme  or  Bouillon. 

1  Pint  of  Cream. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  pieces  of  about 
three  inches;  wash  and  put  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water;, 
add  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Let  the 
macaroni  boil  half  an  hour,  and  mean- 
while make  a  sauce.  Put  .the  butter  and 
flour  in  a  small  stewpan  "and  beat  to  a 
cream.  Then  add  the  chopped  onion, 
carrot  and  pepper,  and  remaining  salt 
and  broth,  and  heat  slowly.  When  the 
sauce  begins  to  boil,  set  it  back,  where 
it  will  only  simmer,  for  about  twenty 
minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time  add 
the  cream  and  then  strain  the  sauce. 
Pour  the  water  from  the  macaroni,  and 
in  its  place  put  the  sauce  and  mush- 
rooms; cook  for  five  minutes,  and  serve 
hot. 


Tlie  Creole  housekeeper  never  uses  any 
but  a  silver  spoon  in  cooking  fresh,  mush- 
rooms. If  the  spoon  is  darkened,  the 
mushrcoms  are  not  good.  This  is  an  in- 
fallible test  in  using  fresh  mushrooms. 
The  canned  French  mushrooms  are  not 
only  the  best,  but  the  safest. 

Potage  Croute-au-Pot. 

3  Quarts  of  Good  Consomme. 

10   Pieces   of   Dried   Toast.    1   Carrot,   cut 

fine. 

1  Head  of  Celery,  cut  fine. 

1  Turnip,  cut  fine. 

Croute-au-Pot  is  one  of  the  most  popu- 
lar and  excellent  Creole  soups.  Prepare 
a  good  consomme.  In  the  meantime,  par- 
boil the  vegetables  in  salted  boiling  wa- 
ter. When  tender,  drain  off  the  water, 
and  add  to  them  about  two  and  one-half 
quarts  of  the  boiling  cc-nsomme.  Let  them 
simmer  until  they  are  very  tender.  Pre- 
pare the  toasts  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  enough  consomme  to  cover 
them.  Simmer  gently  until  the  toasts 
have  absorbed  all  the  consomme  and 
show  signs  of  drying  up.  Then  add  a 
little  hot  co'nsomme,  detach  them  from 
the  saucepan,  lay  them  in  the  tureen 
and  pour  the  soup  with  the  vegetables 
very  gently  over  them.  Serve  imme- 
diately. 

Savory    Soup. 

Potage  a  la  Bonne  Menagere. 

4    Pounds     of    Lean     Beef.     4     Quarts    of 

Water. 

1  Onion,  chopped  fine. 

3  Sprigs  of  Parsley.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme.    1-2  Cup  of  Rice. 

3  Tablespocrafuls  of  Oatmeal. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt.     1-4  Teaspoonful 

of  Pepper. 

Put  the  meat  in  four  quarts  of  cold 
water  and  let  it  simmer  for  three  hours. 
One  hour  before  serving,  add  one-half 
cup  of  rice,  which  has  been  soaked  in 
water  until  soft,  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  oatmeal,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt 
and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Add  parsley,  sprig  of  thyme  and  one 
onion,  chopped  fine.  Boil  an  hour  longer 
and  serve,  very  hot.  This  makes  a  de- 
licious soup. 

Corn   Soup. 

Soup  au   Mai  Tendre. 

6  Pounds  of  the  Lower  Ribs  of  Beef. 

6   Quarts   of   Cold   Water. 

1   Quart  of  Sliced   Fresh  Tomatoes. 

1  Quart  of  Corn,  sliced  from  the  cob. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

One     Pod     of     Cayenne     Pepper,     without 

Seeds. 

Salt  and  Black  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Corn  soup  is  one  of  the  most  popular 
Creole  summer  soups,  and  will  be  found 
not  only  delicious,  but  highly  nutritive. 

Put  the  meat  and  water  into  a  soup 
pot,  and  as  soon  as  the  scum  begins  to 
rise  skim  carefully.  Then  add  the  toma- 
toes and  corncobs.  Cook  for  four  hours 
or  so  longer ;  then  take  out  the  corn- 
cobs, and  add  the  corn,  cut  fine,  salt  and 
pepper  to  suit  the  taste,  adding  a  pod  of 
Cayenne  pepper,  without  the  seeds;  cook 
one  hour  longer  and  then  serve  with 
slices  of  toast  bread. 

Tomato    Consomme. 
Consomme    de    Tomates. 

A    Shin    of   Veal. 

3  Pounds  of  Shin  of  Beef. 

8  Quarts  of  Water.    1  Cup  of  Tomatoes. 

A  Handful  of  S'orrel  (if  tomatoes  are  not 

used). 


Salt  and  Pepper.     3  Onions.     3  I^^s. 

10   Allspice.     6    Cloves.    3    Large    Carrots. 

1   Head    of   Celery.     1    Bunch    of   Parsley 

A    Chicken    may    be    substituted    for    the 

Shin    of   Veal. 

Put  the  meat  and  chicken  (the  latter 
cut  up)  into  a  large  soup  kettle  and  let 
it  come  slowly  to  a  boil.  Then  draw  it 
forward,  and  as  it  begins  to  boil  more 
rapidly  skim  as  the  scum  rises.  After 
another  hour  add  the  pepper,  salt  and 
vegetables.  The  soup  should  boil  inces- 
santly, but  gently,  for  about  eight  hours, 
requiring  in  all  about  nine  hours  of  good 
cooking.  It  should,  therefore,  be  put  on 
very  early  in  the  morning,  and,  if  re- 
quired for  luncheon,  should  be  made  the 
day  before.  AVhen  the  soup  has  boiled 
gently  for  the  prescribed  time  take  it  off, 
strain  into  a  large  bowl  and  set  it  away 
in  the  ice  box  until  the  next  day,  if  not 
for  immediate  use.  Then  remove  the  fat 
from  the  surface,  and  pour  off  all  the 
clear  part  into  a  saucepan  and  boil 
again  for  one  or  two  hours.  Then  re- 
move it  from  the  fire.  This  will  make  a 
stiff  jelly,  which  will  keep  in  winter  for 
several  days  in  the  ice  box.  It  also 
serves  to  make  a  beautiful  Sauce  Espag- 
nole,  or  Spanish  Sauce.  The  best  way  to 
keep  it  is  in  earthern  pitchers  holding 
from  one  to  two  quarts,  allowing  a  cer- 
tain quantity  for  each  day. 

Mock-Tnrtle  Soap. 

Soupe  a  la  Tortue. 

1  Calf's  iHead.     1-4  Pound  of  Calf's  Liver. 

5  Quarts  of  Oold  Water. 

Bunch    of    Soup    Herbs.     2    Hard-Boiled 

Eggs. 

2  Tablespooufuls  of  Butter. 

1  Gill  of  Sherry.    1  Bay  Leaf.     12  Cloves. 

1  Onion.    1  Lemon. 

4  Level  Teaspoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1  Carrot.    1  Turnip. 

1    Level    Teaspoonful    Mushroom  ^Catsup. 

1    Level    Teaspoonful    ^Vcrcestershire 

Sauce. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    S'uit    Taste. 

Select  a  fine  calf's  head,  not  too  large. 
If  large,  reserve  half  and  the  tongue  and 
brains  to  make  another  dish.  Get  the 
butcher  to  crack  the  head  well  and  re- 
move the  brains.  Wash  the  head  thor- 
oughly in  cold  water,  and  then  be  care- 
ful to  pour  boiling  water  through  nose 
and  throat  passages  until  they  are  per- 
fectly clean,  and  scrape  out  the  ears  thor- 
oughly, washing  very  clean.  Rinse  all 
well  in  cold  water,  and  be  very  sure  that 
the  head  is  very  sweet  and  clean  before 
attempting  to  cook  it.  Put  the  head  in  a 
kettle  with  five  quarts  of  cold  water,  and 
set  it  over  a  moderate  fire.  WTien  it  be- 
gins to  boil  well  skim  thoroughly,  till 
every  particle  of  scum  has  been  taken 
off.  Then  set  it  back  and  let  it  sinuner 
until  the  meat  is  qliite  tender.  This  will 
require  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 
Then  remove  the  head ;  take  the  meat 
from  the  bones;  skin  the  tongue,  and  set 
away  to  cool.  Return  the  bones  to  the 
kettle,  with  the  vegetables,  which  have 
been  washed  and  cut  fine;  as,  also,  the 
spices  and  the  liver.  Simmer  gently  again 
for  two  hours,  and  when  cool,  strain. 
Set  aside  to  cool,  and  w^hen  the  soup  is 
cold,  remove  all  the  fat.  Put  the  butter 
in  a  saucepan  and  melt,  adding  the  flour 
until  nicely  browned,  but  be  careful  not 
to  burn  it.  Then  add  by  degrees  the  boil- 
ing soup,  stirring  constantly.  Boil,  keep- 
ing up  a  gentle  stir,  for  about  five  min- 
utes. Then  add  the  meat  of  the  head  and 
the  liver,  having  first  cut  them  into  dice. 


and  bring  to  a  boil  at  once.  Take  the 
saucepan  from  tffe  fire,  and  add  the  oat- 
sup,  salt,  pepper  and  wine.  Slice  the 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  the  lemon  and  place 
them  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup 
over  them  and  serve. 

If  force-meat  balls  are  desired  for  the 
soup,   prepare  them   as   follows: 

force-Meat   Balls. 

Chop  a  half  of  a  pound  of  beef  or  veal 
and  chopped  chicken  about  an  inch  in 
thickness;  add  a  little  of  the  liver  and 
tongue  of  the  calf,  a  half  dozen  small 
onions,  one  tablespoonful  of  sweet  m,ar- 
joram,  one  grated  nutmeg,  a  teaspO'Onful 
each  of  powdered  black  pepper  and  mace, 
and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cloves  (pow- 
dered), three  eggs,  three  grated  crackers 
(sifted),  half  a  gill  of  good  sherry  wine, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt;  chop  up  and  mix  thor- 
oughly together.  Then  roll  in  balls  and 
fry  slowly  in  lard  or  butter.  Serve  with 
the  soup. 

Mutton  Broth. 

Soupe  de  Mouton. 

8  Pounds  of  the  Neck  of  the  Mutton. 
4  Quarts  of  Cold  Water.     1-2  Cup  of  Hice. 

1  Onic-n.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

2    Large    Turnips.     Salt    and    Pepper    to 

Taste. 

Wash  the  neck  of  the  mutton,  or  wipe 
it  with  a  damp  towel,  and  put  it  into 
the  kettle  with  the  cold  water.  Let  it 
come  to  a  slow  boil  and  skim  carefully. 
Cover  well  and  let  it  simmer  for  about 
four  hours.  Then  remove  from  the  stoT^e 
and  pour  into  an  earthem  vessel  to  cool. 
When  cold,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the 
surface,  or,  better  still,  remove  all  the 
fat  before  boiling.  Return  to  the  kettle 
and  add  the  rice,  the  sliced  turnip  and 
the  bay  leaf,  and  season  to  taste,  or  pre- 
pare as  in  Oxtail  Soup. 

Chicken     Broth. 
Bouillon    de    Volaille. 

To  make  a  good  chieken  broth  for  in- 
valids, take  one  good  large  chicken;  clean 
carefully    and    cut    up,    being    careful    to 
mash  all  the  bones  with  an  ax.    Place  in 
a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer  gently  for   four   or  five  hours,  until 
it   is  'boiled   down   to   about  two   cups   of 
broth.     It  will   have  a  rich,  strong  color, 
and  seasoned  with  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, omitting  all  vegetables,  can  be  taken 
by  the  most  delicate  stomachs. 
Chicken    Consomme. 
Consomme  de  Volaille. 
1    Large    Chicken   Cut    in    Pieces. 
1  Onion.     3  Quarts  of  Cold  Water. 

1  Small   Stalk   of   Celery. 
1  Carrot.     1  Turnip. 

Salt   and   Pepper. 

Put  the  chicken  Into  the  salt  and  water 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  until  the  scum 
begins  to  rise;  then  skim.  Add  the  other 
ingredients.  Boil  gently  for  two  hours, 
and  serve  with  slices  of  toast,.  The 
chicken  left  over  will  serve  to  make 
croquettes,    or    chicken    salad. 

Gilt-£dged  Consomme. 
Cc-nsomme    Dore. 

1  Fine  Chicken.     1   Good   Soup   Bone. 

1  Slice  of  Fine  Ham. 
1  Gallon  of  Water. 

2  Eggs,  whites  and  shells. 

2  Sprigs    of   Parsley. 

Half    Bach    of     Small     Parsnip,     Carrot 

and  Head  of  Celery. 

1  Onion.     3  Cloves.     Salt  and  Pepper. 


Have  the  fowl  thoroughly  cleaned,  and 
put  the  chicken,  beef  and  ham  into  a 
kettle  of  cold  water  of  the  quantity 
mentioned  in  the  above,  and  boil  slowly 
for  five  hours,  being  careful  to  keep  the 
pot  well  covered.  Chop  the  onion  and 
vegetables  and  fry  them  in  a  little  but- 
ter, and  add  all  the  seasonings  to  the 
soup.  Boil  two  hours  longer,  and  set 
away  overnight  in  an  ice  box.  The  next 
day  remove  all  the  fat;  from  the  top 
take  out  the  jelly,  leaving  the  thickest 
part  o-f  the  sediment,  which  is  good  to 
put  into  a  thick  soup.  Mix  in  the  shells 
and  the  whites  of  eggs  and  boil  quickly 
for  about  ten  minutes.  Then  set  it  on 
the  hearth  to  settle.  Pour  the  soup 
through  a  thin  bag  without  squeezing; 
if  it  does  not  come  out  perfectly  clear, 
pass  it  through  again.  It  should  then 
be  a  beautiful  golden-brown  color.  Only 
the  brightest  and  cleanest  of  kettles 
should  be  used,  and  the  sieve  should  be 
scalded  each  time  to  keep  the  particles 
from  washing  back  into  the  soup.  This 
is  a  delightful  soup  for  luncheons  and 
Dinner  parties.  It  may  be  garnished  ac- 
cording to  taste,  serving  with  "Croutons," 
or    C^uenelles. 

Consomme    With    Poached    Eees, 

Consomme  aux  Oeufs  Poches. 

6    Eggs. 

3   Quarts    of  Consomme   or   Bouillon. 

Break  the  eggs  and  drop  them  ono 
by  one  into  boiling  salted  water,  being 
careful  not  to  allow  the  water  to  boil 
when  once  the  eggs  are  in  it;  but  have 
the  frying  pan,  which  is  always  best  for 
poaching  eggs,  to  one  side  of  the  stove, 
and  cook  slowly  until  the  eggs  are  firm. 
When  firm,  carefully  remove  with  a 
spoon  or  perforated  skimmer,  the  latter 
being  best,  and  lay  in  cold  water  for 
a  moment,  until  the  edges  are  trimmed 
evenly.  The  boiling  water  tends  to  make 
the  edges  ragged,  and  eggs  served  in  this 
slovenly  manner  are  not  tempting.  Trans- 
fer to  the  tureen  and  pour  the  boiling 
soup  very  gently  into  the  tureen  and 
serve.  ^  One  egg  and  about  a  half-pint  of 
broth  should  be  allowed  to  each  person. 

Queen    Soup. 
Potage    a    la    Heine. 

1  Chicken.    1-4    Pound    of    Rice. 

1-2  Pint  of  C^eam. 

1-4    Blade    of    Mace.    1    Sprig    of   Thyme. 

4  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

2  Quarts    of    White    Veal    Broth. 

Salt   and  Pepper. 

Take  a  fine  large  chicken,  clean  it  and 
put  it  whole  into  a  pot  containing  about 
five  quarts  of  water.  Add  chopped  onion, 
thyme,  bay  leaf,  one  carrot,  a  small 
bunch  of  celery,  and  one  cup  of  rice.  Let 
the  chicken  simmer  well  ror  about  four 
hours,  and,  when  well  cooked,  take  out 
the  chicken  from  the  broth.  Cut  off  the 
white  meat  and  cut  it  into  pieces  about 
the  size  of  dice.  Then  strain  the  broth, 
mashing  the  rice  well.  Make  a  puree  by 
taking  another  saucepan,  putting  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour, 
letting  it  melt  together  without  brown- 
ing. Moisten  this  well  with  the  soup  and 
a  glass  of  milk,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  one-quarter  of  a  grated 
nutmeg,  and  add  to  the  broth.  Then  add 
the  chicken,  which  has  been  cut  up.  Put 
in  the  tureen  little  dice  of  croutons  of 
bread  fried  in  butter.  Pour  the  soup  over 
and  serve  hot.  The  remainder  of  the 
chicken  can  be  used  to  make  Chicken 
Croquettes,    Chicken    Salad,   etc. 


Giblet    Soup. 

Potage  a  I'Essenee  de  Gesier. 
1  Hard-BoUed  Yolk  for  Each  Person. 

2  Cups   O'f  Chicken  Broth. 
3  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water  or  Broth. 

1  Onion,  Carrot  and  1-2  Turnip,  chopped. 

2  Tablespoonfuls     of    Port    or    Madeira 

Wine. 
Parsley. 
Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
1  Leaf  Each  of  Sage  and  Bay. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour  and  1  of  Butter. 
The    Giblets,    Heart,    Liver,    etc.,    of    Two 
Turkeys  or  Four  Chickens. 
Chop  the  onion  tine  and  put  it  into  the 
stewpan    with    the    butter;    let    it    hrown, 
and    then    add    the    chopped    vegetables, 
whole     giblets,     etc.;      fry     until     n'cely 
brownea,    but   do    not   let   it   burn      Then 
slit    the    giblets    with    a    knife,    that    tne 
juices   may   run    out    in    boiling,    and    put 
all  into  the  soup  kettle,  with  pepper,  salt, 
sage,    parsley    and    the    three    quarts    of 
consomme    or    boiling   water.     Add   toones 
or    lean   meat,    cooked    or    raw,    that   are 
left,  preferably  the  meat  of  the  chicken, 
and  let  all  simmer  for  five  hours.     Then 
strain.     Mash    one   liver   fine   and   add    it 
to.  the  broth;    season  with   Cayenne   pep- 
■  per    lemon  juice  to  taste,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Madeira  or  Port  wine.    Bail 
three  minutes,  and  have  in  the  tureen  one 
hard-boiled  yolk  of  an  egg  for  each  per- 
son.    Pour    the    soup    over    it    and    serve 

^°^-  Babbit    Soup. 

Potage   de    Lapin. 

2  Young  Rabbits. 

2  Quarts  of  Cold  Water.     1  Onion. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

1    Blade*  of    Mace.     1    Tablespoonful    of 

Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Rice. 

Cayenne    Pepper,    1-2    Pod.     Salt    to    the 

Taste. 

This    is    a    famous    Creole    soup.     The 

rabbits     should     be     well     skinned     and 

singed.  Wash  thoroughly  in  warm  water; 

this    is    very    important.     Then    cut    the 


given.     Chop    the    onion,  moderate 

tr%',  ^^nAfi-  it'^itmm°e?  gently^  until  ^he 
meat  has  grown  very  tender.  This  will 
l^auir?  about  two  hours  or  less.  Add  the 
sl?t     nepper    and    rice,    and    simmer    for 

In  ■ho'^u'r^fonger.  Po"% '"*"  he'  c"eoTe" 
over  Croutons  and  serve.  The  Creoles 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Sherry  or  Port 
wine,  thus  increasing  the  delicacy  of  the 
flavor.  Squirrel    Soup. 

Potage   d'Ecureil. 
W^hen     squirrels     are     used     the     gray 
Louisiana  squirrel  is  best.     Venison  may 
be   substituted  for  squirrels.     Prepare   as 
for  Rabbit  Soup. 

Pepper     Pot. 

Pot  de  Poivres. 

1  Pound   of  Plain  Tripe.     2  Potatoes. 

1  Pound  of  Honeycomb  Tripe. 
Sprig  of  Parsley.     1  Knuckle  of  Veal. 
3   Quarts   of   Cold    Water. 
1  Herb  Bouquet.    1  Onion. 
2   Teaspoonfuls   of  Flour. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
Cayenne  to  Suit  the  Taste. 
Salt   and   Pepper. 
The    knuckle    of    the    \  eal    is    best    for 
this.     Wash  and  put  into  the  soup  ketUe, 
covering   with    water,    and   bring  it   to    a 
slow  boil.     Carefully  skim   off  the  scum. 
Let  it  simmer  gently  tor  three  hours.  The 
tripe  should  be  prepared  the  day  before. 
Wash    it   thoroughly    in    cold    water    and 
boil    for    about    seven    hours.     Put    away 
In  the  ice  box  till  needed.     Chop  the  par- 
sley and  herbs   fine   and   one-half  of  the 
red    pepper   pod,   and   add   to   the   boiling 
knuckle    of   veal,   and    also    the   potatoes, 
which   have   been   cut   into   dice.     Cut   up 
the   tripe   into    pieces   of    about   one   inch 
square.     Take    out    the    knuckle    of    veal 
and   cut  up   meat  Into   small   pieces,  and 
add  all,   with  the  tripe,  to  the  soup.    At 
tne    boiling   point,    season    with   salt    and 
pepper. 


CHAPTER  IV. 
FISH    SOUPS. 


Soupes  de  Poissons, 

Under  this  heading  come  some  of  the 
most  delightful  Creole  soups,  such  as 
Green  Turtle  Soup,  Oyster  Soup,  Craw- 
fish Bisque,  etc.  These  not  only  serve 
as  fast-day  soups,  but  are  considered  ele- 
gant introductions  to  the  most  recherche 
feast. 


Green    Turtle    Soup. 


Fish   Soup. 

Bouillon    de   Poisson. 

6   Slices  of  Fish   of  Almost  Any  Variety. 

4   Onions,   Chopped   Fine. 

6   Tomatoes,   Chopped    Fine. 

1    Herb    Bouquet.     Sprig    of    Parsley. 

1    Glass    of   White    Wine. 

4    Tablespoonfuls    of    Salad    Oil. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

3   Pints    of    Water. 

Chop  the  onions  and  fry  them  in  the 
salad  oil.  Cut  the  tomatoes  fine,  add 
onions,  and  put  in  all  the  other  ingre- 
dients, except  the  fish,  adding  the  flour 
to  make  a  good  roux.  When  brc'wn  add 
the  water,  apd,  after  it  has  boiled  about 
a  half  hour,  add  the  slices  of  fish. 
When  they  are  firm  remove  the  herb 
bouquet,  add  Cayenne  pepper,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  the  fish 
SOU],  in  a  tureen,  pouring  it  over  crusts 
of  dried  toast. 


Soupe  a  la  Tortue. 
2  Pounds   of   Turtle    Meat,  or  a   2-Pound 
Turtle. 
2    Fine    Large    Onions.     6    Cloves. 
1   S'quare  inch  of  Ham.     6  Allspice. 
2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 
1-4    of    a    Small    Lemon.     2    Hard-Boiled 
Eggs. 
1   Glass   of   Sherry   ^\''ine. 
Parsley,  Thyme,  Bay  Leaf. 
Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
The  Creoles  pride  themselves  upon  their 
famous    "Soup   a  la   Tortue,"    and   justly 
the   old   saying   that   only    a    good    Creole 
cook  knows  how  to  make  a  good  Turtle 
Soup  being  tesititled  to  by  epicurean  vis- 
itors from  every  country. 

The  following  is  one  of  the  simplest 
and  best  ways  of  making  Turtle  Soup— 
a  recipe  that  may  always  be  relied  upon 
and  one  that  has  been  used  from  genera- 
tion to  gene-.'ition  in  the  most  aristocratio 
Creole  homes; 

In  making  Turtle  Soup,  Green  Turtle 
is  always  the  best  tor  this  purpose. 
Sr  cct  two  pounds  of  Green  Turtle  meat, 
u  the  turtle  is  not  bought  whole.  This 
a.aount  will  make  a  soup  for  six  persons 


Increase  proportionately.  If  the  turtle 
Is  bought  whole,  first  out  off  the  head. 
To  dc  this  properly,  the  turtle  should  be 
hung  with  the  head  downwards,  and  a 
very  sharp  knife  should  be  used  to  cut 
off  the  head  ag  close  as  possible.  To 
remote  the  shells,  first  separate  the  up- 
per from  the  lower  shell,  always  being 
exceedingly  careful  to  avoid  touching  the 
gall  bladder,  which  is  very  large.  If  it 
is  penetrated,  the  contents  running  over 
the'  turtle  meat  would  render  it  utterly 
unfit   for   use. 

Clean  the  turtle  and  the  entrails  by  cut- 
ting oijen  and  washing  thoroughly  in  cold 
water.  Then  put  the  meat  and  entrails 
ir.to  a  saucepan  and  parboil  about  ten 
rairules.  Be  careful  to  save  this  stock 
of  water.  Chop  an  onion  very  fine,  and 
thi3  bam  into  very  fine  pieces.  Cut  the 
turtiO  meat  into  one-inch  pieces,  mash 
the  clov-'s  aria  the  allspice  very  fine  and 
chop  tho  thyme  and  bay  leaf.  Brown 
the  ciiio;i?  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
or  laril.  and  add  immediately  the  turtle 
meat.  Blown  together  slightly,  and  after 
minutes  add  the  chopped  ham.  Let 
this  continue  browning  and  then  add 
two  cloves  of  garlic,  chopped  fine,  and 
the  thyme,  bay  leaf  (minced  fine),  cloves 
anJ  allspice  (ground),  all  mixed  together, 
and  lay  on  the  turtle.  Stir  this  almost 
constantly  to  prevent  burning,  and  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  that  has  been 
well  rubbed,  stirring  constantly  all  the 
time.  Then  dissolve  the  meat  with  the 
water  in  which  the  turtle  was  parboiled, 
adding  gradually  until  a  certain  consis- 
tency is  reached.  About  three  quarts  of 
water  will  be  the  required  amount. 
Season  this  with  salt,  black  pepper  and 
Cayenne  to  taste,  and  boil  slowly  for 
tvllv  an  hour,  stirring  almost  constantly. 
Af^cr  cooking  one  hour  taste,  and  If  not 
ata' oned  sufficiently,  season  again  and 
tatte  Then  chop  one-quarter  of  a  small 
lemon,  and  put  it  in  the  soup.  Let  it 
continue  to  ccok,  and  when  well  done — 
that  ia  when  no  blood  exudes  from  the 
turi'.e  afLcr  sticking  it  with  a  fork — pour 
into  the  tureen.  Add  the  whites  and 
yolks  o?  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 
fine  and  one  good  class  of  Sherry  wine, 
aiiJ  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve.  This  is  a 
dish  fit  for  a  king  and  is  most  highly 
recommended  as  a  genuine  Creole  Turtle 
Soup. 

Turtle     Soup     No.    2. 

Soupe  a  la  Tortue. 

2  Pounds  of  Turtle  Meat. 

1-2  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

1-2    Tablespoonful    of   Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

2   Tomatoes.    1  Large   Onion. 

1   Sprig   of  Thyme.     2   Sprigs   of  Parsley. 

1    Bay   Leaf.    1   Clove    of   Garlic. 

1    Square    Inch    of   Ham. 

1   Dozen   Cloves   Tied   in    Muslin. 

6   Allspice   Mashed   Fine. 

3  Quarts  of  Water.    2  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

1  Glass  of  Sherry  or  White  Wine. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Criean  the  turtle  and  entrails  by  cut- 
ting open  the  latter  and  washing  thor- 
oughly in  cold  water.  Then  put  the  meat 
and  entrails  into  a  saucepan  and  parboil 
them  for  ten  minutes.  Carefully  save 
this  stock  of  water.  Chop  the  onion 
very  fine,  and  cut  the  ham  into  very 
fine  pieces.  Cut  the  turtle  meat  into 
one-inch  pieces;  mash  the  allspice  very 
fine,  and  mince  the  parsley,  thyme  and 
bay  leaf.  Then  brown  the  onions  in  the 
lard  and  butter  mixed,  and  almost  imme- 
diately  add   the  turtle   meat.     Brown   to- 


gether for  ten  minutes  and  add  the  finely 
chopped  ham.  As  this  continues  to  brown 
add  the  cloves  of  garlic  (minced  fine), 
the  thyme  and  bay  leaf  and  the  ground 
allspice.  Mix  all  together,  stirring  al- 
most constantly  to  prevent  burning. 
Then  add  the  well-rubbed  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  stirring  constantly.  Scald  and 
skin  the  tomatoes  and  chop  them  fine, 
and  add  to  the  turtle  meat.  When  well 
browned,  pour  over  three  quarts  of  the 
water  in  which  the  turtle  was  parboiled, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  Cayenne 
to  taste,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  for  fully 
an  hour,  stirring  frequently.  After  one 
hour  taste  the  soup,  and,  if  not  suffi- 
ciently seasoned,  add  seasoning  of  salt, 
pepper  and  Cayenne  again,  according  to 
taste.  Let  it  cook  for  an  hour  longer 
and  then  take  off  the  stove  if  the  turtle 
is  thoroughly  done.  This  may  be  ascer- 
tained by  sticking  it  with  a  fork.  If  no 
blood  exudes,  the  soup  is  ready  to  servs. 
Take  oft  the  stove  and  strain  through  a 
colander  into  the  tureen.  Add  the  whites 
and  yolks  '  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  and  one  good  glass  of  Sher- 
ry or  White  wine.  Slice  a  lemon  fine 
and  add  to  the  soup  and  serve  hot. 

How  to  Serve  Turtle  Soup. 

Great  care  should  be  taken  in  serving 
the  soup.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind 
that  boiling  the  soup  a  second  time,  or 
warming  it  over,  deprives  it  of  much  of 
its  delicious  flavor.  To  avoid  this,  fill 
two  tureens  with  boiling  water;  let  them 
stand  a  few  minutes,  then  dry  the  inside 
thoroughly  and  place  the  tureens  in  a 
"bainmarie,"  or  a  hot-water  bath.  Fill 
the  tureens  with  the  soup  and  cover 
tightly.  Bring  them  to  the  table  as  need- 
ed, throwing  in,  just  before  serving,  some 
dainty  slices  of  lemon.  If  the  meat  is 
served,  use  only  the  most  delicate  por- 
tions. 

Mock   Eggs   for   Turtle   Soup. 

Should  the  turtle  possess  no  eggs,  the 
following  method  of  making  mock  eggs 
is  often  used:  Break  and  beat  thoroughly 
one  fresh  egg;  then  take  the  yolks  of 
three  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  rub  them 
into  a  fine  paste  with  about  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Mix  this  with  the  raw  egg 
and  roll  into  pelleits  of  the  identical  size 
and  shape  of  the  turtle  eggs,  let  them  lie 
in  boiling  water  about  two  minutes,  and 
then  drop  into  the  soup. 

Terrapin     Soup. 

Soupe  a  la  Tortue. 

1    Two-Pound    Diamond-Back    Terrapin. 

2  Fine  Large  Onions.     6  Cloves. 

1  Square  Inch  of  Ham.,  6  Allspice. 

1-4    of    a    Small    Lemon.    2    Hard-Bolled 

Eggs. 

1   Glass   of  Sherry  Wine. 

Parsley,    Thyme    and    Bay    Leaf. 

Salt,   Pepper   and   Cayenne  to  Taste. 

The  diamond-back  terrapin  is  the  best 
and  the  females  make  the  finest  and 
daintiest  food,  the  males  being  not  only 
of  inferior  size,  but  of  far  less  delicate 
flavor.  Terrapins  must  always  be  bought 
alive.  They  are  in  season  from  Novem- 
ber till  March,  ajid,  like  all  other  fish,  i 
should  not  be  eaten  out  of  season. 

To  make  the  soup,  clean  the  terrapin 
as  you  would  a  turtle.  Then  place  in  a 
kettle  and  boil  till  tender.  Take  out  and 
cut  into  small  pieces,  saving  the  water. 
Proceed  as  for  Turtle  Soup.  When  it 
boils  up  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  grated 
nutmeg,  a  glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira 
wine  and  serve.  Serve  with  green  pickle 
and  delicate  slices  of  fried  toast. 


10 


Crawfish    Bisqae. 

Potage    a   la    Bisque    d'Ecrevisse. 
8    Dozen    Pine    Large    Crawfish. 
3   Onions.     1   Carrat.     1  Bunch   of  Celery. 
2  Sprigs   of  Thyme.     2  Bay   L*eaves. 
4  Sprigs  of  Parsley.     6  Cloves. 
2  Blades  of  Mace.     1  Clove  of  Garlic. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
2  Quarts   of  Oyster   Liquor. 
A  Dash  of  Cayenne,  1  Seedless  Cayenne 
Po^d. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Take     about     eight     dozen     fine,     large 
crawfish     and     wash    thoroughly,     being 
careful    to    cleanse    of    every    particle    of 
dust  or  sand.     Set  to  boil  in  about  a  gal- 
lon   of    water.     When    boiled,     take    the 
fish    out    of    the    water;    save   the   water. 
Pick  O'Ut  two  dozen  of  the  largest  craw- 
fish;   pick  out  the  inside  of  the  tails  and 
save  the  heads,  cleansing  them  of  every 
particle    of    meat.     Set   this    meat    to    one 
side    with    the    shells    of    the    head.     Pick 
the  meat  from  the   rest   of  the   crawfish, 
saving    all    the    shells.     Take     one    large 
onion,  a  carrot,  a  bunch  of  celery,  a  sprig 
of   thyme,    one    bay    leaf,   three   sprigs    of 
parsley,    six    clc-ves    and    two    blades    of 
mace,  one  clove  of  garlic;    chop  all  very 
fine   and    put   into    the    pot   of    water    in 
which  the  crawfish  were  boiled.     Add  all 
the  picked  meat,  except  the  reserved  tails, 
and  all  the  shells  of  the  bodies  and  heads, 
except  the  reserved  heads.    Add  one  cup 
of  rice  and  let  it  all  boil  till  the  mixture 
becomes    thick    and    mushy.     When    it    is 
well    cooked,    take    it    off    the    fire    and 
mash  the  shells  thc-roughly,  and  the  meat 
also,  and  strain  all  through  a  sieve.    Taka 
about  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two 
quarts   of   oyster  liquor  and   add   this   to 
the    soup,    seasoning   to    taste    with    Cay- 
enne, salt  and  black  pepper.     Set  to  boil 
slowly.     In    the    meantime,    take    the    re- 
served crawfish  meat  and  make   a  stuf- 
fing   as    fc-llows    for    the    reserve    heads, 
chop  an  onion  very  fine  and  let  it  brown 
In    a    tablespoonful     of    butter.     Squeeze 
thoroughly    a    cup    of    bread    wet    with 
water.    WTien  well  squeezed,  mix  with  a 
little    milk,    sufficient    to    make    a    paste, 
season  to   taste   and   mix   with   the   well- 
seasoned    crawfish    meat.     Chop    another 
onion  and  put  in  melted  butter,  and  add 
the     crawfish     stuffing,     letting     all     fry 
about  ten  minutes,  adding,  in  the  mean- 
time,    a     finely-chopped     sprig    each     of 
thyme  and  parsley  and   a  bay  leaf,   and 
mixing    thoroughly.     Take    off    the    fire 
and  stuff  the  reserved  head  of  crawfish. 
Put  on  every  stuffed  head  a  dot  of  but 
ter,    and   set    in    the    oven    and    bake    ten 
■minutes.     Place  the  stuffed  heads  in  the 
tureen    and    pour    the    soup    over.     Serve 
hot     with     Croutc-ns     of    buttered     toast, 
passing  the  latter  in  a  separate  dish. 
Crawfish     Soup. 
Potage    d'Bcrevisses. 
50   Fine,   Large   Crawfish. 
1 1-2  Pounds  of  a   Fillet  of  Veal. 
1   Slice    of   Ham. 
1   Herb   Bouquet.    1   Half   Can    of   Mush- 
rooms, 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 
2  Carrots.    1  Tablespoc'nful  of  Butter. 
1  Clove  of  Garlic.     1  Large  Onion. 
1  Parsnip. 
1  Dozen  Almonds.    1  Dozen  Allspice. 
4    Shallots.     6    Tomatoes   or   a  Half    Can. 
Croutons. 
Wash    the     crawfish    thoroughly    over 
and     ©ver    again    to     take     away    every 
particle  of  dust.    Then  boil  them  in  plain 
water.     Save    the    water.     Take    out    the 
crawfish  and  take  off  all  the  shells,  put- 
ting   the    meat    aside.     Pound    the    shells 


fine;  pound  one  do^en  almonds  fine  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  meat  of  the 
crawfish,  and  pound  this  in  a  mortar. 
In  the  meanwhile  take  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  a  filet  of  veal  and  a  slice  of  ham 
and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cut  up  the 
onion,  carrots  and  parsnips.  Put  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard  in  a  kettle,  and 
when  it  begins  to  heat  add  the  herb 
bouquet  (sweet  basil,  parsley,  bay  leaf), 
the  onions,  parsnip,  shallots,  clove  of 
garlic,  chopped  fine;  as  these  brown  add 
the  veal  and  ham.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour  and  butter  rubbed,  and  the 
mushrooms,  chopped  finely.  Let  these 
simmer  for  about  five  minutes  and  then 
add  the  tomatoes,  allspice  and  cloves. 
After  ten  minutes,  when  the  mixture  is 
well  browned,  add  the  pounded  crawfish 
shells  and  the  pounded  meat  and  al- 
monds. Pour  over  all  the  water  from 
the  boiled  crawfish  and  set  it  back  on 
the  stove  and  let  it  simmer  for  about 
two  hours.  Skim  off  all  the  grease  when 
near  time  for  serving.  Then  strain 
through  a  sieve  and  serve  with  Croutons 
of  toast,  cut  in  slices,  placed  in  the  bot- 
tom  of  the  tureen. 

On  fast  days,  instead  of  the  veal  and 
ham,  substitute  butter  and  lard,  making 
a  Roux  (see  recipe),  and  moistening  a 
little  with  the  stock  of  the  crawfish. 
Then  proceed  as  above. 

Rice  or  Crouton  Soup  is  rendered  de- 
licious by  introducing  a  small  quan- 
tity of  the  broth  of  a  crawfish.  The 
broth  is  also  used  extensively  by  the 
Creoles  in  seasoning  ragouts  on  fast 
days,  and  hot  pies,  such  as  pates  de  foles 
gras;  also  such  .entremets  as  cauliflower, 
artichokes,  etc.  The  chief  essential  in 
making  the  broth  is  to  have  it  of  the 
right  consistency,  and  to  skim  carefully 
of  all  the  grease  before  straining.  Good 
judgm^ent  must  be  the  guide  of  the  cook 
in  seeking  the  proper  consistency. 

Oyster    Soup. 

Soupe  aux  Huitres. 

4    Dozen    Large,    Fresh    Oysters. 
1  Quart  of  Rich  Milk.    The  Oyster  Liquor 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

3  Sprigs  of  Parsley.  Chopped  Fine. 

1    Dozen    Pepper    Corns. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
In  purchasing  the  oysters  always  ba 
careful  to  make  the  vendor  add  the 
oyster  juice  when  intended  fdr  soup.  In 
making  good  oyster  soup  the  Creoles 
never  use  any  water,  but  the  liquor  from 
the  oysters.  Drain  the  oysters  througa 
a  colander  and  set  them  over  the  ice  box 
,  to  keep  fresh  and  cold.  Strain  the  liquor, 
and  put  it  into  a  soup  kettle,  adding  the 
chopped  parsley  and  the  pepper  corns. 
Let  it  come  to  a  boil.  In  the  meantime 
boil  the  milk  separately  in  a  saucepan, 
as  boiling  the  milk  and  ovster  juice  to- 
gether is  likely  to  curdle  the  milk.  "S^Tien 
the  milk  comes  to  a  boil,  add  to  the 
oyster  juice  and  put  in  the  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Stir  the  soup  constantly  ai 
this  point,  throwing  in  the  ovsters  and 
continuing  to  stir  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil  again.  Under  no  circumstances  al- 
low the  oysters  to  boil,  as  that  destroys 
their  flavor  and  makes  them  tough  and 
indigestible.  But  one  must  be  also  care 
ful  to  see  that  they  are  steamed  through 
and  through,  and  then  they  are  delight- 
ful and  palatable.  The  ruffling  of  tha 
edges  indicates  the  right  condition;  a* 
this  point  the  soup  must  be  served  im- 
mediately. Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and 
oyster  or  water  crackers.  Made  accord- 
ing to  the  above  formula,  oyster  soup  is 


11 


a  most  delightful  dish  and  can  be  eaten 
and  relished  by  the  most  delicate  stom- 
achs. 

Oyster  Soup  Without  MUk. 

Soupe    aux    Huitres    a    la    Creole. 

The  Creoles  have  another  delightful 
method  of  preparing  oyster  soup,  a 
method  evolved  by  the  old  negro  cooks  of 
ante-bellum  days,  and  still  in  vogue  in 
the  ancient  families.  It  is  a  soup  made 
without  milk,  and  is  prepared  as  follows: 
Take 

4  Dozen  Baycu  Cook  Oysters. 

The  Oyster  Liquor. 

1  Liarge  Onion.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sifted  Flour. 

i  Sprigs   of  Parsley.    1  Tablespoonful   of 

Butter. 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water. 

Put  the  tablespoonful  of  lard  into  the 
soup  kettle.  Have  ready  one  onion,  som;j 
parsley,  chopped  very  fine.  When  the 
lard  is  hot,  stir  in  two  taiblespoonfuls  of 
sifted  flt)ur,  and  make  a  Brown  Roux 
(see  recipe),  stirring  constantly  to  pre- 
vent burning.  When  the  Roux  is  of  a 
light  brown  color  add  the  chopped  onions 
and  parsley,  continuing  to  stir,  being 
exceedingly  careful  to  avoid  the  sem- 
blance of  burning.  Strain  the  oyster 
juice  of  about  four  dozen  oysters  into 
the  Roux,  mixing  thoroughly  to  avoid 
bits  of  shell;  mix  with  about  a  quart  of 
boiling  water  and  pour.     When  it  shows 


signs  of  coming  to  a  bo'il,  add  the  oysters 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  At  the  boil- 
ing point  remove  from  the  stove  and 
serve  with  oyster  soda  crackers  or  dry 
toast,  the  oyster  crackers  being  always 
preferable. 

Grab     Soup. 

Potage  de  Crabes. 

1   Dozen   Fine    Crabs.     6    Ripe    Tomatoes. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme.     3  S'prigs  of  Parsley. 

1  of  Sweet  Marjoram. 

1  Large  Onion.     1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    (level)   of  Lard. 

1   Lemon. 
Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne. 

Cleanse  the  crabs  thoroughly  and  ex- 
tract all  the  meat  from  the  bO'dy  and 
claws;  scald  and  skin  the  tomatoes,  and 
squeeze  the  pulp  from  the  seeds  and 
juice;  chop  very  fine.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  the  seed  and  juice  and  strain.  Chop 
the  onion  and  garlic  and  stew  with  the 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard.  As 
they  begin  to  brown  add  the  tomatoes, 
cover,  and,  after  simmering  a  few  min- 
utes, add  the  well-seasoned  meat  of  the 
crab.  Sift  over  this  some  grated  bread 
or  crackers  and  season  with  Cayenne, 
sweet  marjoram  and  thyme.  Pour  in  to- 
mato water  and  add  about  a  quart  or 
more  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  moderately 
for  about  an  hour.  Add  the  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  serve. 


CHAPTER  V. 
IBNTBN   SOUPS 
Potages  Malgre. 


The  Creoles  excel  in  the  preparation 
of  soups  without  meat,  or  fast-day  soups, 
as  they  are  called.  The  ingenuity  of  the 
cooks  from  generation  to  generation  has 
been  taxed  in  the  preparation  of  these 
soups,  which  are  in  great  vogue  during 
the  Lenten  season.  But  many  of  them, 
such  as  "Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup,'' 
"Cream  of  Celery  Soup,"  have  entered 
into  the  daily  life  of  the  city,  and,  like 
the  famous  Creole  Gumbos,  are  held  afi 
dainty  and  elegant  introductions  to  the 
most  distinguished  feasts. 

Fast-Day  Broth. 

Bouillon   Maigre. 
6   Fine   Carrots.     6   Large   White   Onions. 

6  Turnips. 

1-2  Pound  of  Beans  or  Dried  Split  Peas. 

1  Small  Head  of  Cabbage.    1  Parsnip. 

1  Stalk  of  Celery. 

4  S'prigs  of  Parsley. 

1-4   Pound   of  Butter,   or  1   Large  Tahle- 

spoonful   of  Lard. 

3  Quarts  of  Water. 

1  Red  Pepper  Pod,  Without  the  Seed. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Peel  and  cut  into  fine,  thin  slices  the 
carrots,  turnips  and  parsnips;  cut  and 
chop  fine  the  cabbage,  celery  and  onions, 
put  all  in  a  saucepan  and  add  one  glass 
of  water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  using  the  butter  preferably  to  the 
lard;  add  the  parsley,  chopped  very  fine. 
Let  all  boil  till  the  water  has  evaporated, 
and  then  add  one  pint  of  red  or  white 
beans  or  split  peas,  which  have  been 
soaked  overnight;  add  three  quarts  of 
water  and  the  pepper  pod,  and  let  all 
simmer  well  for  three  hours.  Then  if  the 
beans  are  perfectly  tender  at  this  point, 
drain    or    press   through    a    colander;    re- 


turn to  the  fire  and  add  the  seasonings 
Let  all  boil  up  once  and  then  serve  with 
Croutons.  Stale  bread  may  be  utilized 
in  preparing  the  Croutons. 

A    Sumiuer   Fast-Day    Soup. 

Potage  Maigre   d'Ete. 

The  Hearts  of  6  Lettuce  Cut  in  Pieces. 

2    Ljarge    Onions. 

2    Cucumbers,    Pared    and    Sliced. 

4  Pints  of  Toung  Green  Peas. 

Chopped  Parsley. 

3  Lumps  of  Crushed  Sugar. 

1-2  Pound  of  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Chop  the  vegetables  fine  and  stew  at! 
together,  except  the  young  peas.  After 
one  hour  add  the  young  peas.  Press 
them  through  a  sieve  and  return  all  into 
the  water  in  which  they  have  been  boiled. 
Add  to  this  the  vegetables  that  have  been 
stewed  in  the  butter  and  simmer  about 
an  hour  and  a  half.  A  sprig  of  mint  is 
added  just  before  the  soup  is  taken  off 
the  fire. 

A    Winter    Fast-Day    Soup. 
Potage    Maigre    d'Hiver. 

1  Quart  of  Dried  Peas. 

3  Quarts  of  Water.    1  Lettuce,  Sliced. 

1  Head  of  Celery. 

1    Carrot.    2    Turnips.     2    Large    Onions. 

Handful  of  Spinach. 

Sprig  Each  of  Mint,  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

A  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Stew  all  the  vegetables,  except  the  let- 
tuce, together,  after  having  chopped  fine, 
until  they  are  perfectly  soft.  Then  return 
to  the  fire  with  the  chopped  lettuce,  but- 
ter and  sugar.  Boil  quickly  about  twenty 
minutes,  and  serve  with  Croutons. 


Vegetable    Soup    Without    Meat. 

Puree  de  Legumes. 
1  Sweet  Potato.  1  Bunch  of  Celery  Leaves. 
1  Turnip.     1  Parsnip. 
1  Carrot.    1  Bay  Leaf.    2  Onions. 
Sprig  of  Parsley  and  Thyme. 
1  Irish  Potato. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flcur. 
1  Large  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
3  1-2  Quarts  of  Cold   Water. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Cut   the   vegetables   into    dice   and   boil 
until    thoroughly    tender    in    about    three 
and    a    half    quarts    of    water;    this    will 
require    about    two    hours.     Then    press 
the  whole   through   a   sieve;    add  the  re- 
maining water  and  bring  to  a  boil.     Then 
add   the   butter,   rubbed   smooth   with   the 
flour  in  a  little  rich  cream,  or  a  little  of 
the   hot   soup.     A    gill    of    cream    or   milk 
added    just   before    serving   increases   the 
flavor.     Boil  and  stir  about  two  or  three 
minutes  more  and  serve. 

Lentil    Soup. 

Potage  »  Puree   de   Lentilles. 

1  Pint  of  Lentils.     2  Quarts  of  Water. 

1  Onion.     1  Small  Bunch  of  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     1  S^rig  of  Thyme. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  or  L<ard. 
1  Pod  of  Red  Pepper,  Without  the  Seeds. 
1  Stalk   of  Celery,   Chopped  Fine. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Wash    the    lentils,    and,    if    dried,    soak 
them    over    night.     Drain    off    the    water 
and    put    them    in    a    saucepan    with    the 
cold   water.    Allow   them    to    come    grad- 
ually to  a  boil.    Then  set  them  back  on 
the  stove  and  let  them  simmer  gently  for 
about  two  hours.     Melt  the  butter  in  the 
saucepan  and  fry  in  it  the  minced  onion, 
celery,  parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  and 
let  these   brown;    then    add   them   to    the 
lentils;    boil   about  an   hour   longer,   and, 
if  particularly   tender,   press   all  through 
a  colander.    Return  to  the   fire  and  add 
the    seasonings.     Let    them   boil    up    once 
and  serve  with  Croutons. 

Red  Bean  Soup. 

Puree  a  la  Conde. 

1  Pint  of  Red  Beans. 

2  Quarts   of  Cold   Water. 

1   Minced    Onion. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Bay   Leaf. 

Bunch    of    Parsley.     Sprig   of   Thyme. 

Salt  and  Pepper. 
Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  over- 
night in  lukewarm  water.  Drain  and  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  cold  water. 
Allow  them  to  come  gradually  to  a  boil; 
then  set  them  back,  and  let  them  simmer 
gently  for  about  two  hours.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  saucepan  and  fry  in  it  the 
onion,  parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf  until 
brown.  Add  these  to  the  beans  and  boil 
about  an  hour  and  a  half  longer.  If  the 
beans  are  perfectly  tender  at  this  point, 
press  the  whole  through  a  colander.  Re- 
turn to  th^  fire,  and  add  the  seasonings. 
Let  them  boil  up  once  and  serve  with  the 
Croutons.  Some  think  that  the  flavor  is 
enhanced  by  beating  up  an  egg  in  the 
tureen  and  pouring  the  boiling  soup 
gradually  over  it,  stirring  constantly. 
This  soup  should  always  be  served  witii 
Croutons. 

White    Bean    Soup. 

■    Potage  a  la  Puree  d'Haricots. 

1  Pint  of  White  Beans. 

2   Quarts   of   Cold   Water. 

1     Minced     Onion.     1     Tablespoonful     of 

Butter. 

1   Bay    Leaf.     Bunch    or   Parsley. 

Sprig   of   Thyme. 

Salt  and  Pepper. 


Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  over- 
night in  lukewarm  water.  P^ain  and  put 
thlm  in  a  saucepan  with  the  cold  water 
Allow  them  to  come  gradually  to  a  boil, 
then  set  them  back  and  let  theni  simmer 
gently  for  about  two  hours.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  saucepan  and  fry  in  it  the 
onion,  parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf  until 
brown.  Add  these  to  the  beans  and  boil 
about  an  hour  and  a  half  longer.  If  the 
beans  are  perfectly  tender  at  this  point, 
press  the  whole  through  a  colander.  Re- 
turn to  the  fire  and  add  the  seasonings. 
Let  them  boil  up  once  and  then  serve 
with  the  Croutons.  As  in  Red  Bean  boup, 
a  beaten  egg  may  be  added  when  about 
to  pour  into  the  tureen.  First  beat  up 
the  egg  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  grad- 
ually  over,   stirring   all   the   while. 

Dried    or     Split    Pea     Soup. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Pois  Sees. 

1  Pint  of  Dried  or  Split  Peas. 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water. 

1  Small    Bunch    of    Celery.    1    Bunch    of 

Parsley. 

1  Quart  of  Good  Milk  or  Cream. 

2   Onions. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Soak  the  peas  overnight,  after  washing 
them  in  cold  water  and  rejecting  all  that 
float.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  water 
and  cover  the  peas  again  with  one  quart 
of  boiling  water,  setting  them  back  on 
the  stove  and  letting  them  cook  slowly 
until  tender.  Cut  up  the  onion  and  pars- 
ley and  celery  into  fine  pieces  and  add 
to  the  boiling  peas.  Wlien  perfectly  ten- 
der remove  from  the  stove  and  press 
through  a  sieve  or  colander  and  add  the 
salt  and  pepper.  Then  return  the  soup 
to  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  up  once;  just 
before  serving  add  the  rich  cream  or 
milk,  stirring  well.  The  soup  should  be 
served  with  Croutons  or  Oyster  Crackers. 
White  Bean  Soup  may  be  made  in  ex- 
actly the  same  manner.  When  not  in- 
tended for  fast  days,  the  addition  of  a 
ham  bone  adds  greatly  to  the  flavor. 

Puree   of    Green   Peas. 

Puree   de   Pois  Verts. 

1  Quart  of  Young  Green  Peas. 

Bunch    of   Parsley.     2   Young   Onions. 

2  Quarts  of  Good  Milk  or  Broth. 

Pepper   and   Salt. 

Cut  the  onions  and  parsley  fine,  and 
boil  with  the  peas  until  all  are  quite  ten- 
der, in  boiling  water,  for  about  a  half 
hour.  Then  drain.  Rub  all  through  a 
sieve  or  colander,  and  add  them  to  the 
boiling  broth  or  milk.  Do  not  allow  this 
to  boil  after  adding  the  peas.  Season 
and  serve  with  dainty  Croutons.  To  keep 
hot,  stand  the  soup  on  a  "bainmarie,"  or 
kettle   of  boiling  water. 

Sorrel     Soup. 

Potage   a.   la   "Bonne   Femme,"   ou    Soupe 

a  I'Oiselle. 

A  Small  Bunch  of  Fresh  S'orrel. 

3  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water. 

1  Cup  of  Cream  or  Rich  Milk. 

1  Cup  of  Mashed  Potatoes. 
4  Eggs.    3  Sprigs   of  Parslev. 

3  Leaves    of    Lettuce.     1    Onion. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour.     A   Pinch    of 

Nutmeg. 
Pepper  and  Salt  to  Taste. 

W^ash  the  leaves  and  stem  them,  the 
entire  length  of  the  leaf.  Then  chop 
them  fine  until  you  have  a  quantity 
equal  to  a  pint  or  two  teacupfuls.  Chop 
the  other  vegetables  and  put  these  an5 
the  sorrel  into  a  saucepan  with  the  but- 


13 


ter;  cover  and  let  them  stew  gently  for 
ten  minutes,  and  then  add  the  floui, 
which  has  been  well  mixed  with  a  little 
water.  Pour  gradually,  stirring  always, 
into  the  three  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mix  with 
a  little  cream  or  milk  in  a  tureen.  Rub 
the  rest  of  the  cream  or  milk  smooth  with 
the  mashed  potato  and  put  into  the 
soup;  add  the  seasonings.  Prepare  toast 
in  the  form  of  dice,  rubbing  them  firtit 
with  the  raw  onion,  and  pour  some  of  the 
boiling  soup  over  the  eggs  in  the  tureen 
and  mix  very  carefully.  Put  in  the  pieces 
of  toast,  and  then  add  the  remainder 
of  the  soup.  Cover  and  stand  five  min- 
utes in  a  warm  oven,  and  serve  hot. 

Potato    Soup. 

Potage    Parmentier. 

8   Potatoes.     2   Onions,   Cut   Fine. 

1  Cup  of  Cream  or  Ricfi  Milk. 

1  Pinch  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Pepper  and   Salt. 

After  washing  and  peeling  the  pota 
toes,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  the 
onions  and  add  about  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Bring  to  a  boil.  After  allowing 
to  coo'k  about  forty  minutes,  if  the  vege- 
tables are  then  very  tender,  mash  and 
pass  all  through  a  sieve,  and,  returning 
to  the  fire,  add  the  seasoning  and  butter. 
Bring  to  a  boil,  and  add  the  cream  and 
a  beaten  egg,  serving  immediately  with 
Croutons. 

Carrot    Soup. 

Potage  Crecy. 

4   Large  Carrots    (the  redder  the  better). 

2  Large  Onions,  Cut  Fine. 

1  Quart  of  New  Milk.     1  Turnip. 

1  Teaspoon  of  Corn  Starch. 

2  Sticks   of   Celery.     1   Bay   Leaf. 
S'prig   of   Thyme.     Sprig    of    Parsley. 

3   Cloves. 

1    Large    Teaspoonful    of    Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  and  Sugar  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  vegetables  thoroughly,  cut- 
ting them  fine  and  boiling  until  tender 
in  three  pints  of  water.  When  very  soft, 
mash  them  and  press  through  a  sieve. 
The  carrots  must  be  mashed  very  fine. 
Then  return  to  the  fire,  and,  adding 
about  two  quarts  O'f  boiling  water,  cover 
and  simmer  gently  for  a  while,  adding 
one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  that  has 
been  blended  well  with  a  little  milk. 
Add  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  for  about 
two  minutes  more,  and  serve  with  Crou- 
tons. 

Lettuce    Soup. 
Potage  de  Laitues. 

1  Large  iHead  of  Lettuce. 
1  Spoon  of  French  Vinegar.     1  Egg. 
1     Tablespoonful     of     Butter.    1     Gill     of 
Cream. 
1    Teaspoonful    of   Flour. 
Dices  of  Stale  Bread.    1  Pinch  of  Sugar. 
3  Quarts  of  Broth. 
Prepare  a  good  broth  and  cook  till  it  is 
reduced    to    three    pints;    this    will    serve 
six    persons.     Chop    the   lettuce    fine    and 
stew    it    with    a    tablespoonful    of   batter, 
adding  the  pinch  of  sugar  and  one  spoon 
of    French    vinegar.     Keep    stirring    con- 
stantly,   so   that   it  will   not  burn.     Then 
add    the    flour     (which    has    been    rolled 
smoothly  in  butter),  the  pepper  and  salt, 
throw    in    a    dash    of    Cayenne    pepper. 
Break    in    the    egg    and    stir    tfltoroughly. 
Then  pour  on  the  broth.    Place  the  dice 
of  bread  in  the  tureen,  and  add  the  gill 
of  cream  to  the  soup  before  pouring  over 
the  bread. 


Okr^     Soup. 

Potage    de    Fevi.* 
2  Pints  of  Okra,  or  Fifty  Counted. 
6     Fresh    Tomatoes.     2    Onions    Chopped 
Fine. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 
2  Sprigs   of  Thyme.     1  Bay  Leaf. 
3  Quarts  of  Water. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to   Taste. 
A  Red  Pepper  Pod,  Without  the  Seed. 
Wash  and  stem  the  okra  and  then  slice 
it  very  fine.     Chop  the  tomatoes  fine,  be- 
ing  careful   to    preserve   the   juice.     CJhop 
the  onions  fine  and  fry  them  in  the  but- 
ter.    Then  add   the    chopped   thyme,    bay 
leaf,  parsley  and  tomatoes  and  the  pepper 
pod,  and,  after  letting  it  stew  about  five 
minutes,  add  the  okra,  stirring  constant- 
ly,   almost,    as    it    burns    quickly.     When 
well  browned,  add  the  Juice  of  the  toma- 
toes.    Then   add    the    hot   water,    and   set 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  let  it  slm- 
nier  well  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 
S'eason  to  taste  and  serve  hot,  with  Crou- 
tons. 

Okra  must  be  cooked  in  a  porcelain- 
lined  pot,  as  iron  or  other  metal  tends 
to  blacken  it. 

Winter  Okra  Soup. 

Potage   Fevi   d'Hiver. 

1  Can  of  Good  New  Orleans  Okra. 

1  Can    of   Tomatoes.    2   Onions,   Chopped 

Eline. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Dozen    Oysters.     3    Tablespoonfuls    of 

Rice. 

A  Red  Pepper  Pod,  W^ithout  the  Seed. 

Chop  the  onions  fine  and   fry  them  in 

the    butter.     Wash    the    rice    well;    then 

stew    the    onions,    tomatoes    and    pepper 

together  in  about  three   quarts   of  water 

and   one   pint   of  oyster  water  for  about 

three     hours,      stirring     frequently.     Ten 

minutes  before  serving  add  the  okra  and 

let  it  come  to  a  boil.     Then  drop  in  the 

oysters.     Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Onion    Soup. 

Potage  a  I'Ognon. 

3  Large    Onions,    Sliced    Very    Thin    or 

Chopped. 
1-2  Cup  of  Flour. 

1  Large  Spoon   of  Butter. 

1   Quart   of  Milk. 

2  Large  Potatoes,  Mashed  Fine, 

Dice   of  Bread    or   Toast. 

Salt   and  Pepper.  .^      . 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter,  until  red- 
dish brown.  Then  add  the  flour  ani 
stir  until  browned,  gently;  do  not  burn. 
Put  the  boiling  water  in  gradually,  stir- 
ring perfectly  smooth,  and  adding  the 
salt  and  pepper;  mix  well  and  boil  one 
minute.  Then  pour  it  into  the  kettle  and 
set  back.  Before  serving,  add  the  mi^k 
warmed,  and  rubbed  with  mashed  pota- 
toes until  they  are  a  smooth  paste.  Sim- 
mer a  few  moments.  Have  the  pieces  of 
toast  ready  in  the  tureen  and  pour  ^n 
the  hot  soup.  A  puree  of  onions  is  made 
by  pressing  the  ingredients  through  a 
sieve  and  returning  to  the  fire  for  a  few 
moments.     Serve  hot. 

Cream  of  Onion  Soup. 

Puree    d'Ognons. 

6    Onions.     1-2    Ounce    of   Butter. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Cream.     2  Ounces  of  Flour. 

2  Pints  of  Boiling  Water. 

Pepper.     Nutmeg. 

Peel  the  onions  and  boil  in  salted  water 

until    very    tender;    then    drain    and    dry 

well   with  a  cloth;    put  them  on  the  fire 

in  a  saucepan,  with  one  ounce  of  butter; 


14 


add  the  other  ingredients,  except  the  re- 
maining ha4f  ounce  of  butter.  When  the 
soup  comes  to  a  boil,  press  through  the 
sieve,  and  return  to  the  fire;  add  the 
remainder  of  the  butter  and  serve. 

Cream    of    Tomato    Soap. 

Potage  aux  Tomates. 

2   Quarts  of   Pure   TomatO'  Juice. 

1   Gill   of  Rice.     3  Onions.     8  Allspice. 

4  Cloves.     A  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

A  Pinch  of  Sugar  to  Taste. 

Pepper   and    Salt. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  for  about  two  hours, 

and  then  extract  the  juice.    Add  the  other 

ingredients,   and   boil    fcr   about   an   hour 

and  a  half;   then  strain.    The  rice,  being 

creamy,    should    now    make    the    soup    as 

thick  as  cream.     Serve  with  Croutons  or 

Quenelles. 

Cream    of   Celery    Soup. 

Potage   a  la   Creme   de  Celeri. 
Celery  Stalks.  2  Quarts  of  Milk  or  Cream 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1     Pint     of     Water.     1     Tablespoonful     of 

Butter. 

1-2    Small    Onion. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  celery  and  onion  and  cut 
into  fine  pieces.  Then  place  them  in  a 
porcelain-lined  saucepan  and  let  boil  for 
about  a  half  hour.  Take  off  and  mash, 
and  press  through  a  colander.  Set  the 
milk  to  bo-il  in  a  farina  boiler,  and  as  !t 
heats  well,  add  to  it  the  water  and  celery 
that  have  been  pressed.  Rub  smoothly 
together  the  flour  and  butter,  and  then 
stir  into  the  boiling  soup,  stirring  con- 
stantly till  it  thickens  to  a  cream  of  the 
right  consistency.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  serve  hot.  It  is  very  de- 
licic'us  served  with  slices  of  delicately 
toasted  and  buttered  Croutons.  Serve  on 
a  separate  dish  and  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Cream   of   Corn    Soup. 

Potage  a  la  Crem^e  de  Mais. 

2   Pints   of   Grated    Corn. 

4  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water. 

1  Pint  of  Hot  Milk  or  Cream. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Level   Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

The  Tolks  of  2  Eggs. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Slit  the  corn  in  two  and  grate  from 
the  cobs.  Put  the  cobs  into  the  boiling 
water  and  let  them  boil  slo-wly  about  an 
hour,  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  three 
quarts.  Then  take  the  cobs  out  and 
drain  over  the  kettle.  Add  the  corn  and 
let  it  boil  till  very  soft.  This  will  re- 
quire about  thirty  minutes.  Take  the 
soup  off  and  press  all  through  a  sieve. 
Season  highly  and  set  back  to  simmer 
gently,  adding,  in  the  meanwhile,  the 
flour  and  butter,  thoroughly  rubbed  to- 
gether. Stir  constantly  till  the  soup 
thickens,  and  then  add  the  boiling  milk. 
Cook  a  moment  only,  take  off  the  fire, 
stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  serve  hot, 
with  buttered  toast  cut  in  dice  shape. 

Cream    of   Asparae:us    Sonp. 

Creme  d'Asperges. 

1  Large  Bunch  of  Asparagus. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.     1    Quart    of 

Milk. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Rich  Cream. 

2    Even    Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour    or 

Corn    Starch. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  Asparagus,  tie  it  in  a  bunch 
and  put  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water. 
Let  it  boil  gently  for  about  three-quarters 


of  an  hour,  or  uniil  perfectly  tender. 
Take  it  from  the  water,  cut  off  the  tii>s 
or  points  and  put  them  aside  unta 
wanted.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  m  a 
farina  boiler.  Press  the  Asparagus  stalks 
through  a  colander,  and  add  them  to  the 
milk.  Rub  the  butter  and  corn  starch  or 
flour  together  until  perfectly  smooth,  and 
add  to  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly till  it  thickens.  Now  add  the  As- 
paragus tips,  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve, 
without  Croutons,  as  the  Asparagus  tips 
form  a  beautiful  garnish. 

Cream    of    Spinach    Soap. 

Potage    a.    la    Creme    d'Epinards. 

Half  <x   Peck    or   Four   Pints   c-f   Spinach. 

2  Ounces  of  Fresh  Butter. 

Two  Quarts  of  Oyster  Water. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Granulated  S'ugar. 

1-4   of  a  Grated   Nutmeg. 

Wash  and  boil  one-half  peck,  or  four 
pints  of  Spinach;  this  quantity  will  meas- 
ure about  one  pint  when  cooked,  chopped 
and  pounded  into  a  fine  paste.  Then  put 
it  into  a  stew  pan  with  four  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  the  grated  nutmeg  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  to  this 
two  quarts  of  oyster  juice  (on  other  than 
fast  days  consomme  may  be  used,  or  good 
bouillon).  Let  all  boil  up,  and  then  press 
through  a  strainer.  Set  it  over  the  fire 
again  and  just  at  the  boiling  noint  mix 
with  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  Serve 
hot  with   Croutons. 

Cream    of    Barley    Soap. 

Puree   d*Orge. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Barley,  or  a  Half 

Cup. 

1  Pint   of   Cream  or  Milk. 

The  Tolks  of  2  Eggs.    3  Quarts  of  Water 

(boiling). 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Scald  the  barley  and  then  put  Into  a 
kettle  with  three  quarts  of  boiling  water 
and  let  it  boil  about  three  hours.  Take  it 
off  and  mash  thoroughly,  and  strain 
through  a  sieve.  Add  the  hot  milk  to  the 
stock  of  the  barley,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Take 
off  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

Cream    of   Rice    Soap. 

Creme    de    Riz. 

1  Cup  of  Rice.     3  Quarts  of  Water. 

1    Pint    of    Milk.     The    Tolks    of   2    Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Pepper  and  Salt  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  Rice  thoroughly,  rubbing  dry. 
Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of 
cold  water;  when  swelled  add  one  quart 
of  boiling  water,  and  when  it  begins  to 
get  very  tender  add  the  remaining  quart 
of  boiling  water.  Then  add  the  pepper 
and  salt.  Take  from  the  fire,  mash  the 
rice  well  and  rub  all  through  a  sieve. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  with 
a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  WTien 
quit©  smooth  stir  in  carefully  a  few  spoons 
of  the  boiling  rice  water,  and  then  pour 
the  eggs  and  cream  or  milk  into  the 
saucepan  with  the  rice,  which  you  will 
have  returned  to  the  stove.  Mix  briskly 
and  then  draw  aside  and  stir  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  being  very  careful  not  to 
allow  the  mixture  to  boil  when  once  the 
e^gs  will  have  been  added.  Serve  hot 
with   Croutons  or  Crackers. 

On  other  than  fast  davs  this  is  most 
delicious  made  with  Chiclcen   Consommp. 


15 


Bice  Soup,  Wlthont  Meat, 

Kiz  au  Maigre. 
1  Cup  of  Rice.  The  Yolks  of  2  Eggs. 
3  Quarts  of  Water.  1  Spoon  of  Butter. 
1  Pint  of  Milk.  Pepper  and  Salt. 
Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  rubbing  dry. 
Put  it  in  a  saucepan  with,  one  pint  of 
cold  water;  when  swelled,  add  one  pint 
of  boiling  water,  and  when  it  begins  to 
get  very  tender  add  the  remaining  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Add  the  pepper  and 
salt.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with 
a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  When 
quite  smooth,  stir  in  carefully  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  the  boiling  rice  water,  and 
then  pour  the  eggs  and  cream  into  the 
saucepan,  stirring  very  briskly.  Draw 
aside  and  stir  for  two  or  three  minutes, 
but  do  not  allow  the  soup  to  boil  when 
once  the  eggs  are  added. 

Cocoannt    Soup. 

Potage   de  Cocoa. 

6  or  8  Calves'  Eeet. 

1-2  Pound  of  Grated  Cocoanut. 

1  Gallon  of  Water. 
1  Pint  of  Cream  or  Rich  Milk. 
1   Tablespoonful   of   Flour   or  Arrowroot. 
3  Ounces  of  Fresh  Butter. 
6  Blades  of  Mace. 
The  Grated  Rind  of  1  Lemon. 
Scald  the  calves'  feet,  and  scrape  thor- 
oughly without  skinning;    put  them  into 
the    soup    kettle    with    a    gallon    of    cold 
water,  and  cover  the  kettle  well.     Let  the 
feet  come  to  a  slow  boil  and  skim  care- 
fully.    Then  add  the  blades  of  mace  and 
let  the  soup  boil  slowly  till  the  meat  Is 
reduced  to  rags  and  has  fallen  from  the 
bones.     Then   strain   into   a   white  porce- 
lain dish  or  pan,  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 
After  it  has  congealed,  scrape  off  fat  and 
sediment,   and   a   beautiful   jelly   will   re- 
main.    Cut  up  this  cake  of  jelly  and  put 
it  into  a  thoroughly  cleansed,  white  por- 
celain soup  kettle.     In  the  meantime  grate 
the  cocoanut  very  fine,  till  about  a  half 


pound  is  on  hand.  Mix  thi*  wltn  the  pint 
of  rich  cream  or  milk,  and  add  the  butter 
which  has  been  rolled  smoothly  in  the 
arrowroot  or  flour.  Mix  this  carefully 
and  gradually  with  the  calves'  feet  stock 
or  soup,  and  season  with  a  grated  nut- 
meg. The  soup  should  then  be  set  back 
on  the  fire  and  allowed  to  boil  slowly  for 
about  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  almost 
constantly.  Pour  into  the  tureen  and 
serve  with  French  rolls,  or  milk  biscuit, 
made  very  light  and  thin.  On  fast  days 
omit  the  calves'  feet,  using  another  ounc« 
of  butter  instead. 

Chestnut     Soup, 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Marrons. 
3  Quarts  of  Oyster  Water,  or 
A  Good  Round  of  Beet  or  Veal. 
1  Quart  of  Chestnuts.  1  Herb  Bouquet. 
Cayenne  Pepper. 
Make  a  good  broth  of  the  veal  or  beef; 
season  with  the  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 
Follow  the  rule  given  for  making  soups, 
by  allowing  a  pound  of  meat  to  each 
quart  of  water.  Skim  and  boil  till  the 
meat  falls  into  rags;  then  strain  and  put 
in  a  clean  porcelain  pot.  In  the  mean- 
time shell  the  chestnuts  and  throw  them 
into  boiling  water  until  the  skin  comes 
off  easily.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  some  of  the  soup  water,  and  boil 
about  thirty  minutes,  till  quite  soft.  Press 
through  a  colander;  add  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  Then  add  to  the  soup.  Make 
dumplings  the  size  of  a  marble  with  fresh 
butter  rolled  in  flour;  and  add.  (See 
recipe  for  Dumplings.)  Boil  the  soup 
about  fifteen  minutes  longer  and  serve. 
Some  prefer  the  soup  without  dumplings, 
thinking  it  gives  more  of  the  flavor  of 
the  chestnuts.  On  fast  days  use  the  oys- 
ter water  instead  of  the  beef  broth,  fol- 
lowing the  recipe  in  all  other  particulars, 
and  adding  a  half  tablespoonful  of  butter 
to  the  puree  before  pressing  through  the 
colander. 


CHAPTER    VI. 
THE   BOUILLI. 

"Le  Bouilli." 


The  Creoles  long  ago  discovered,  or, 
rather,  brought  over  with  them  from  the 
mother  country,  France,  the  delightful 
possibilities  for  a  good  entree  that  lurked 
within  the  generally  despised  and  cast 
aside  Bouilli,  and  these  possibilities  they 
improved  upon  in  their  own  unique  and 
palatable  styles  of  cuisine  preparations. 

In  France  the  "Bouilli"  is  always 
served  at  the  home  dinner,  and  so  with 
the  new  France,  New  Orleans.  Far  from 
rejecting  the  "Bouilli"  as  unpalatable 
and  unfit  for  food,  the  Creoles  discovered 
many  delightful  ways  of  serving  it,  and 
their  theories  of  the  nutrition  that  still 
remained  in  the  boiled  beef  have  been 
sustained  by  medical  science.  The  most 
eminent  scientists  have  found  by  experi- 
mtent  that  while  heat  coagulates  the  nu- 
tritious substances  of  the  beef,  only  a 
small  amount  is  dissolved  when  the  wa- 
ter is  heated  gradually,  and  that  the 
"Bouilli"  is  still  valuable  as  an  article  of 
food. 

The  pleasant  ways  that  the  Creoles 
have  of  preparing  it  restores  its  flavor 
and  makes  it  a  delightful  accompani- 
ment to  even  the  most  aristocratic  din- 
ners. For  breakfast  the  boiled  beef  left 
over  is  utilized  in  various  ways. 

We  have  selected  from  among  many 
the  following  recipes,  which  need  only  to 
be  tried  to  be  repeated  often,  in  one  form 
or  the  other. 


The  recipes  for  the  sauces  mentioned 
will  be  found  in  the  chapter  especially 
devoted    to    "Creole    S'auces." 

Mirontons. 

The  Left-Over  Bouilli. 

3    Large    Onions.     6    Shallots. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic.     1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1  Bay  Leaf.    2  Pickles. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

This  is  a  favorite  way  the  Creoles  have 
of  serving  the  cold  bouilli  that  has  been 
saved  from  tlie  preceding  day: 

Slice  the  onions  fine;  brown  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Chop  the  shal- 
lots and  add  to  the  onions,  then  add  the 
garlic,  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  all  chopped 
very  fine,  and  season  with  salt,  Cayenne 
and  black  pepper  to  taste.  When  the 
whole  is  browning  nicely  add  a  table- 
spoonful of'flour  and  water,  or  left-over 
broth,  sufficient  to  cover.  Season  this 
to  taste,  and  then  take  two  pickles,  about 
one  finger  long,  slice  very  fine  and  add. 
Let  all  boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  and 
then  lay  the  cold  bouilli,  which  has  been 
thickly  sliced,  in  a  sauce.  Set  it  to  bake 
in  the  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Gar- 
nisli  with  buttered  toast  and  serve  hot. 


16 


Boiled   Beef   Saute  a   la   Lyonnaise. 

Bouilli  Saute  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Tlie  Bouilli    3  Onions. 

1  Tablespoonful   of   Lard. 

1   Tablespoonful  of  Olive   Oil. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Chill  Vinegar. 

The  Peel   of   One   Lemon. 

Slice    the    onions    and    brown    them    in 

lard,  using  about  one  tablespoonful.  Slcim 

the  lard  off  the  onions  and  put  the  beef 

in   the   pan.     Stir   up   and   smother.     Add 

the  oil,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  out  fine,  and 

the   Chili    vinegar.     Serve   hot. 

Boiled   Beef   a   la   Bordelaise. 
Bouilli    a    la    Bordelaise. 
The  Bouilli. 
1-2  Dozen  Shallots. 
1   Glass    of   White   'Wine. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sauce  Espagnole. 
Slice  the  left-over  beef.    Then  hash  the 
shallots  into  very  fine  pieces;  add  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  pepper  and  salt   to   taste, 
and  boil  to  half  the  quantity  over  a  brisk 
fire.    Then  add  the  mashed  beef  marrow 
from   the   bone   and   two    teaspoonfuls   of 
"Sauce     Espagnole"     (see    Tecipe),     first 
melting  the   marro'w   in   a  little   bouillon. 
Stir   rapidly    over   the    fire,    and    as    soon 
as  it  begins  to   bubble,   withdraw  it  and 
set   it  back   on   the   stove,   letting  it  sim- 
mer gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.    Add 
the    sliced    beef    for    about    ten    minutes 
and    then    serve    with    Croutons    or    fried 
crusts. 

Boiled  Beef  a  la  Faysanne. 

Bouilli    a    la    Paysanne. 

The  Bouilli. 

5   Large    Onions. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Flour. 
,1   Wineglassful   of  Claret. 
A  Dash  of  Mustard  and  Vinegar. 
Hash  the  left-over  beef,  and  then  chop 
five    large    onions    very    fine    and    cook 
them  to  a  golden  brown  in  butter.     When 
nearly  done,  dust  over  them,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  flour  and  moisten  with  a  little  red 
wine.     Cook  the  onions  till  done  and  then 
put   In   the    cold    hashed    beef,    adding    a 
dash  of  French  vinegar  and  a  little  mus- 
tard, and  serve. 

Boiled  Beef  a  I'lndlenne. 
Bouilli  a  rindienne. 
The  Bouilli. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Powdered   Saffron. 

2  Cayenne    Pepper    Pods. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Bouillon. 
This  is  a  dinner  dish.  Crush  the  pods 
of  two  Cayenne  peppers  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  powdered  saffron  and  heat  and 
brown  in  butter.  Then  moisten  with  a 
little  bouillon.  Boil  the  sauce  down,  and 
when  nearly  ready  to  serve,  thicken  with 
a  little  butter.  Serve  in  a  gravy  dish 
with  the  "Bouilli,"  which  has  been  nicely 
and  tastefully  garnished  with  lettuce 
leaves  on  a  parsley  bed. 

Boiled    Beet    With     Tomatoes. 
Bouilli    aux    Tomates. 

The  Bouilli. 

1-2    Dozen    Tomatoes. 

2    Cups    of    Bouillon. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   Flour. 

1    Clove    of    Garlic. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 
Take  a  half  dozen  fine,  ripe  tomatoes, 
and  parboil  them  in  butter,  being  careful 
not  to  let  them  burn.  Add  a  pinch  of 
flour  and  two  good  cups  of  bouillon,  a 
little  salt   and   pepper,   a  clove   of  garlic, 


a  sprig  of  parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf. 
After  two  hours,  take  out  the  tomatoes 
and  allow  the  beef  to  cook  a  few  inin- 
utes  in  the  sauce.  Then  serve  on  a  flat 
dish,  arranging  the  tomatoes  around  the 
beef  and  under  each  tomato  put  a  nice 
piece    of   buttered    toast. 

Boiled    Beef    a    la    Bruxelloise. 

Bouilli   a    la   Bruxelloise. 

The  Bouilli. 

1  Dozen  Brussels  Sprouts. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

3  Sprigs    of    Parsley. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Take  about  a  dozen  Brussels  sprouts 
and  blanch  them  in  boiling  water.  Drain 
thoroughly  and  stew  in  butter  with 
chopped  parsley.  After  they  have  cooked 
ten  minutes,  take  them  out  of  the  pan 
and  parboil  them  in  fresh  butter,  which 
has  been  melted  before  the  stove.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  and  garnish  nicely 
around   the   bouilli  and   serve. 

Boiled    Beef    en    Fapillottes, 

Bouilli  en  Fapillottes. 

Tie     Bouilli. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

6    Sausages.        (Chaurice.) 

2  Eggs.  1  Cup  Bread  Crumbs. 

4  Sprigs    of    Parsley. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish.  Take 
the  left-over  bouilli  cut  in  ^ices  and 
parboil  slightly  in  butter.  Make  a  force- 
meat or  quenelle  of  pork  sausage,  garlic, 
parsley  and  moistened  bread  crumbs,  add 
two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  layer 
of  this  "farci"  between  each  layer  of 
sliced  beef,  and  then  add  the  bread 
crumbs,  mixed  with  chopped  parsley.  Put 
the  beef  in  oiled  paper,  folded  as  tight- 
ly as  possible,  cook  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
in  the  oven  and  serve  in  the  papillottes 
(paper). 

Boiled  Beef   With   Carrot  Saace. 

Bouilli    a    la    Crecy. 
The     Bouilli. 
4   Carrots.  2   Onions. 

1    Gill    of    Cream. 
2    Sticks    of    Celery. 
3  Sprigs  of  Parsley         I  Sprig  of  Thvme. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt   and   Pepper   to   Taste. 
Make    a    good    puree    of   fine,    red    car- 
rots    (see    recipe),     and    then    strain    in 
butter.      Add    a    gill    of    rich    cream    and 
salt    and    pepper    to    the    taste.      Put    the 
bouilli  in  the  platter  and  pour  the  sauce 
around    it,    serving    hot    just    after    the 
soup. 

Boiled  Beef  With  Lettuce. 

Bouilli    a    la    Laitue. 

The  Bouilli. 

6  Head  of  Lettuce.      2  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

12   Sausages.       (Chaurice.) 
1   1-2    Cups   Bread    Crumbs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Take  six  fine,  firm  heads  of  lettuce, 
strip  off  all  the  green  leaves,  wash  thor- 
oughly and  soalc  and  blanch  in  boiling 
water.  Then  throw  them  into  cold 
water.  When  very  cold  squeeze  in  a 
towel  till  thev  are  thoroughly  dry  and 
cut  off  the  stalks  from  below  without 
In.iuring  the  heart.  Fill  this  open  place 
with  forcemeat  balls,  made  from  the 
bouilli  after  the  recipe  already  given  in 
Boiled  Beef  en  Papillottes,  that  is,  fry 
them  in  lard,  with  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
soaked  in  bouillon  and  worked  into  the 
meat        Chop    up    with    pepper,    salt    and 


17 


garlic,  and  add  one  or  two  hard  boiled 
eggs.  Tie  the  balls  up  and  cook  with- 
out adding  water  and  fill  the  heart  of 
the  lettuce.  This  may  be  served  around 
the  body  of  the  bouilli  and  makes  a 
beautiful    garnish. 

Boiled    Beef    a   la    Lyonnalse. 

Bouilli    a    la    Lyonnaise. 

The  Bouilli. 

6  Sausages.         (Chaurice.) 

1  Clove  of  Garlic.         3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1   Sprig   of  Thyme. 

2  Eggs.  Bread  Crumbs. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Make  a  sausage  meat  of  the  bouilli, 
adding  the  pork  sausage,  garlic,  pars- 
ley and  thyme.  Moisten  some  breau 
crumbs  in  water  and  dissolve  over  them 
two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  the 
whole  and  tie  it  tightly  in  a  cabbage  leaf. 
An  hour  before  serving  take  out  the  re- 
maining bouilli  and  the  farci  or  stuffed 
cabbage  leaf.  Let  them  cool  and  cut 
them  into  slices  and  roll  these  in  beaten 
eggs,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  butter.  Throw  over  them  a  dash 
of  powdered  parsley  and  squeeze  over 
all  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Boiled  Beef  With  Egg   Toast. 

Bouilli  au  "Pain  Perdu." 

6   Slices    of  Bouilli. 

6    Slices    of    Stale   Bread. 

2  Eggs.  1  Pint  of  Milk. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

Parsley  and   Lettuce   Leaves  to   Garnish. 

Take  left-over  or  stale  bread,  slice  it 
thickly  and  dip  in  cream  or  milk.  Then 
dip  it  in  the  beaten  whites  and  yolks 
of  egg  and  fry  in  butter.  Cut  the  bouilli 
into  slices  to  match  the  bread,  dip  it  in 
the  egg  and  fry  also.  Serve  on  a  dish 
with  chopped  parsley  dashed  o-ver  it  and 
a  garnish   of  parsley  or  lettuce  leaves. 

Boiled   Beef    Saute    With    Onions. 

Bouilli    Saute    aux    Ognons. 

The   Bouilli. 

3    Large    Onions. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic.  3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

The    Juice    of    1    Lemon. 

Take  three  fine  onions  and  parboil 
them  in  butter  over  a  slow  fire.  When 
a  rich,  creamy  brown,  add  clove  garlic 
and  Cayenne  pepper.  Cut  the  bouillon 
in  thin  slices  and  add,  shaking  the  pan 
until  browned.  Place  in  the  platter 
and  serve  with  chopped  parsley  dusted 
over,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  squeezed 
over  it. 

Boiled   Beef  a  la   Marsellaise. 

Bouilli   it   la   Marsellaise. 

The  Bouilli. 

1    Dozen    Small    Onions. 

1-2  Cup  Claret.  1-2  Cup  Meat  Gravy. 

1-4    Can    of    Mushrooms., 

1  Herb  Bouquet.    1-8  of  a  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Slice  the  bouilli  into  thin,  fine  slices. 
Take  a  dozen  onions,  the  smallest  kinds, 
and  dust  over  with  sugar,  and  bake  in 
the  oven.  When  a  good  color,  put  a  little 
of  the  bouillion  in  the  stewing  pan 
and  boil  down  one-half.  Moisten  with 
a  cup  of  red  wine  and  thick  meat  sauce, 
allowing  half  and  half  in  proportion. 
Then  add  the  beef,  the  mushrooms,  the 
bouquet  garni,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
nutmeg,   and  serve  very  hot. 


Boiled  Beef  Sausage. 

Saucisse    de    Bouilli. 

The  Bouilli. 

1  Pound  of  Pork.  3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1     Clove     of     Garlic. 

6    Allspice.  3    Truffles, 

A    Dash    of    Cayenne. 

1    Wineglass    of    Madeira. 

1-2    Cup    of    Bouillon. 

Take  the  bouilli  of  the  day  before, 
mince  and  add  chopped  parsley,  a  few 
spices,  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper,  and  a 
little  beef  extract  saved  from  the  bouil- 
lon. Take  a  round  of  pork  and  add, 
mixing  thoroughly.  When  the  whole 
is  well  mixed,  add  a  few  truffles  and  a 
little  Madeira.  Fill  some  entrails  that 
have  been  thoroughly  cleansed  with  this 
meat  and.  shape  the  sausage  as  one  de- 
sires. Boil  in  butter  and  serve  alone. 
This   makes   an   excellent  breakfast  dish. 


Beef    Croquettes, 

Croquettes     de    Boeuf. 

The  Bouilli. 
1  Pound   of  Pork  or  Sausage  Meat. 

1   Clove    of   Garlic. 

2  Onions.  Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

3    Sprigs    of    Parsley. 

1   Cup    of   Breacr   Crumbs. 

Salt    and    Pepper. 

Mince  the  beef  with  sausage  meat  and 
add  garlic,  parsley,  pepper,  salt  and 
onions,  and  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
water.  Add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Make  into  balls  and 
roll  in  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  and 
fry,  being  careful  not  to  cook  too  rap- 
idly. Wlien  sufficiently  browned,  pile  in 
a  pyramid  shape  on  a  dish,  garnish  with 
parsley  sprigs   and   serve. 

Boiled   Beef    Gros    Sel. 

Bouilli   Gros   Sel. 

The  Bouilli. 

1  Bunch  of  Parsley.     1  Head  of  Lettuce. 

A  French  Dressing. 

This  is  the  simplest  way  of  serving  the 
bouilli,  and  the  one  most  used  by  the 
Creoles  as  a  daily  dish.  Take  the  bouilli 
from  the  bouillon,  and  serve  on  a  platter, 
laying  the  whole  on  a  ^bed  of  parsley 
and  lettuce.  Serve  with  salt  or  French 
dressing. 

A   Good  Every-Day  Hash, 

Hachis. 

1  Quart  of  Chopped  Soup  Meat. 

1  Onion.  2  Potatoes. 

2    Hard-Boiled    Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2   Pint   of   Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste, 

A  Dash   of   Cayenne. 

Chop  the  left-over  bouilli  fine  in  dice 
shapes,  and  to  every  quart  of  the  meat 
allow  one  onion,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, two  hard-boiled  eggs,  two  cold  (left- 
over) potatoes,  a  half  pint  of  water, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  the 
potatoes,  onions  and  eggs  fine  and  put 
them  into  the  stewing  pan  with  the  meal, 
adding  by  degrees  the  butter,  salt  and 
1-2  Pod  of  Red  Pepper,  Without  the 
pepper  with  a  little  dash  of  Cayenne. 
Stew  very  slowly  for  about  fifteen  or 
twenty   minutes   and   serve  hot. 


18 


CHAPTER  VII. 
CBEOI^E  GUMBO. 

Goxnbo  a.  la  Creole. 


Gumbo,  of  all  other  products  of  the 
New  Orleans  cuisine,  represents  a  most 
distinctive  type  of  the  evolutiooi  of  good 
cookery  under  the  hands  of  the  famous 
Creole  cuisinieres  of  old  New  Orleans. 
Indeed,  the  word  "evolution"  fails  to  ap- 
ply when  speaking  of  Gumbo,  for  it  is  an 
original  conception,  a  something  suigen 
eris  in  cooking,  peculiar  to  this  ancient 
Creole  city  alone,  and  to  the  manor  born. 
With  equal  ability  the  olden  Creole  cooks 
saw  the  possibilities  of  exquisite  and  de- 
licious combinations  in  making  Gumbo, 
and  hence  we  have  many  varieties,  till 
the  occult  science  of  making  a  good 
"Gombo  a  la  Creole"  seems  too  fine  an 
inheritance  of  gastronomic  lore  to  remain 
forever  hidden  away  in  the  cuisines  ot 
this  old  Southern  metroipolis.  The  fol- 
lowing recipes,  gathered  with  care  from 
the  best  Creole  housekeepers  of  New  Or- 
leans, have  been  handed  down  from  gen- 
eration to  generation.  They  need  only  to 
be  tried  to  prove  their  perfect  claim  to 
the  admiration  of  the  many  distinguished 
visitors  and  epicures  who  have  paid  trib- 
ute to  our  Creole  Gumbo. 

Gumbo    File, 

First,  it  will  be  necessary  to  explain 
here,  for  the  benefit  of  many,  that  "File" 
is  a  powder  manufactured  by  the  re- 
maining tribe  of  Choctaw  Indians  in 
Louisiana,  from  the  young  and  tender 
leaves  of  the  sassafras.  The  Indian 
squaws  gather  the  leaves  and  spread 
them  out  on  a  stone  mortar  to  dry. 
When  thoroughly  dried,  they  pound  them 
into  a  fine  powder,  pass  them  through 
a  hair  sieve,  and  then  bring  the  File  to 
New  Orleans  to  sell,  coining  twice  a  week 
to  the  French  Market,  from  the  old  res- 
ervation set  aside  for  their  home  on 
Bayou  Lacombe,  near  Mandeville,  La. 
The  Indians  used  sassafras  leaves  and 
the  sassafras  for  many  medicinal  pur- 
poses, and  still  sell  bunches  of  the  dried 
roots  in  the  French  Market.  The  Creoles, 
quick  to  discover  and  apply,  found  the 
possibilities  of  the  powdered  sassafras, 
or  "File,"  and  originated  the  well-known 
dish,  "Gumbo  File." 

To  make  a  good  "Gumbo  File,"  use 
the  following  ingredients: 

1  Large  Tender  Chicken. 

2  Large  Slices  or  1-2  Pound   Lean  Ham. 

2  Tablespoontuls  of  Butter  or  1  of  Lard. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

3   Dozen   Oysters. 

1  Large  Onion.     1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

2  Quarts  of  Oyster  Water. 
2  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water. 

1  Half  Pod   of  Red  Pepper,   Without  the 

Seeds. 
Salt  and  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
Clean  and  cut  up  the  chicken  as  for 
a  fricassee.  Dredge  with  salt  and  blacit 
pepper,  judging  according  to  taste.  Cut 
the  ham  into  dice  shapes  and  chop  the 
onion,  parsley  and  thyme  very  fine.  Put 
the  lard  or  butter  into  the  soup  kettle 
or  deep  stewing  pot,  and  when  hot,  put 
in  the  ham  and  chicken.  Cover  closely 
and  fry  for  about  five  or  ten  minutes. 
Then  add  the  onion  and  parsley  and 
thyme,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
burning.  When  nicely  browned  add  the 
boiling  water  and  throw  in  the  oyster 
stock,  which  has  been  thoroughly  heated. 
Add  the  bay  leaf  chopped  very  fine,  and 
the  pepper  pod,  cut  in  two,  and  set  the 
Gumbo  back  to  simmer  for  about  an  hour 
longer.     WTien  nearly  ready  to  serve  din- 


ner, and  while  the  Gumbo  is  boiling 
add  the  fresh  oysters.  Let  the  Gumbo 
remain  on  the  stove  for  about  three 
minutes  longer,  and  then  remove  the  pot 
from  the  fire.  Have  ready  tie  tureens, 
set  in  a  "bainmarie,"  or  hot  water  bath, 
for  once  the  File  is  added  the  Gumbo 
must  never  be  warmed  over.  Take  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  File  and  drop  grad- 
ually into  the  pot  of  boiling  hot  Gumbo, 
stirring  slowly  to  mix  thoroughly;  pour 
into  the  tureen,  or  tureens,  if  Uiere 
should  be  a  second  demand  and  serve 
with  boiled  rice.  (See  recipe.)  The  rice, 
it  should  be  remarked,  must  be  boiled  so 
that  the  grains  stand  quite  apart,  and 
brought  to  the  table  in  a  separate  dish, 
covered.  Serve  about  two  spoonfuls  of 
rice  to  one  plate  of  Gumbo. 

The  above  recipe  is  for  a  family  of 
six.  Increased  quantities  in  proportion 
as  required.  Never  boil  the  Gumbo  with 
the  rice,  and  never  add  the  File  while  the 
Gumbo  is  on  the  fire,  as  boiling  after 
the  File  is  added  tends  to  make  the 
Gumbo  stringy  and  unfit  for  use,  else 
the  File  is  precipitated  to  the  bottom  of 
the  pot,  which  is  equally  to  be  avoided. 

Where  families  cannot  afford  a  fowl, 
a  good  Gumbo  may  be  made  by  substi- 
tuting the  round  of  the  beef  tor  the 
chicken. 

Turkey    Gnmbo. 

Gombo  de  Dinde. 

The  Remains  of  a  Turkey. 

1-2  Pound  of  Lean  Ham. 

2  Tablespoons  of  Butter  or  1  of  Lard. 

1  Bay  Leaf.    3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

3   Dozen   Oysters. 

1  Large    Onion.    1    S'prig    of    Thyme. 

2  Quarts  of  Oyster  Water. 

1-2    Pod    of    Red    Pepper,    W^ithout    the 

Seeds. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Nothing  is  ever  lost  In  a  well-regulated 
Creole  kitchen.  When  turkey  is  served 
one  day,  the  remains  or  "left-over"  are 
saved  and  made  into  that  most  excellent 
dish — a  Turkey  Gumbo.  It  is  made  In 
the  same  manner  as  Chicken  Gumbo, 
only  instead  of  the  chicken,  the  turkey 
meat,  black  and  white,  that  is  left  over, 
is  stripped  from  the  bones  and  carcass. 
Chop  fine  and  add  to  the  hot  lard,  and 
then  put  in  the  ham,  cut  fine  into  dies 
shapes.  Proceed  exactly  as  in  the  recipe 
above,  only  after  adding  the  boiling  wa- 
ter, throw  in  the  bones  and  carcass  of 
the  turkey.  At  the  proper  time  remove 
the  carcass  and  bones,  add  the  oysters, 
and  then  remove  the  pot  and  "File"  the 
Gumbo.  Serve  with  boiled  rice.  Turkev 
Gumbo,  when  made  from  the  remains  of 
wild  turkey,  has  a  delicious  flavor. 
Squirrel  or  Babbit  Gumbo, 
Gombo  d'Ecureil  ou  de  Lapin. 

These  are  famous  Creole  Gumbos.  The 
following  ingredients  are  used: 

1  Fine  Squirrel  or  Rabbit. 

2  Slices  or  1-2  Pound  of   Lean  Ham. 

3   Sprigs   of  Parsley.    1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1  Bay  Leaf.    1  Large   Onion. 

3   Dozen   Oysters. 

,  „  „      ^  Quarts  of  Oyster  Water. 

1-2  Pod  of  Red  Pepper,  Without  the  Seed 

A   Dash   of   Cayenne. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Skin,  clean  and  cut  up  the  squirrel   or 

rabbit,    as    for    a    frlcasse.     Dredge    well 

with  salt  and  black  pepper.    Cut  the  ham 


19 


into  dice  shapes,  and  chop  the  onion, 
parsley  and  thyme  very  fine.  Put  the 
lard  or  butter  into  a  deep  stew  pot  and, 
when  hot,  put  in  the  squirrel  or  rabbit. 
Cover  closely  and  fry  for  about  eight  or 
ten  minutes.  Then  proceed  in  exactly 
the  same  manner  as  for  Chicken  Gumbo; 
add  the  "File"  at  the  time  indicated,  and 
serve  with  boiled  Louisiana  rice.  (Se^ 
recipe.) 

Okra   Gumbo. 

Gombo     Fevi. 

1  Chicken.  1  Onion. 
6  Large  Fresh   Tomatoes. 

2  Pints  of  Okra,  or  Fifty  Counted. 

1-2    Pod    of    Red    Pepper,     Without    the 

Seeds. 

2  Lar^e    Slices    of    Ham. 

1  Bay  Leaf.  1  Sprig  of  Thyme  or  Parsley. 

1   Tablespoonful    of    Lard    or   Two    Level 

Spoons    of    Butter. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  cut  up  the  chicken.  Cut 
the  ham  into  small  squares  or  dice  and 
chop  the  onions,  parsley  and  thyme.  Skin 
the  tomatoes,  and  chop  fine,  saving  the 
juice.  Wash  and  stem  the  okras  and 
slice  into  thin  layers  of  one-half  inch 
each.  Put  the  lard  or  butter  into  the 
soup  kettle,  and  when  hot  add  the  chick- 
en and  the  ham.  Cover  closely  and  let 
it  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes.  Then 
add  the  chopped  onions,  parsley,  thyme 
and  tomatoes,  stirring  frequently  to  pre- 
vent scorching.  Then  add  the  okras, 
and,  when  well-browned,  add  the  juice 
of  the  tomatoes,  which  imparts  a  su- 
perior flavor.  The  okra  is  very  delicate 
and  is  liable  to  scorch  quickly  if  not 
stirred  frequently.  For  this  reason  many 
Creole  cooks  fry  the  okra  separately 
in  a  frying  pan,  seasoning  with  the  pep- 
per, Cayenne  and  salt,  and  then  add  to 
the  chicken.  But  equally  good  results 
may  be  obtained  with,  less  trouble  by 
simply  adding  the  okra  to  the  frying 
chicken,  and  watching  constantly  to  pre- 
vent scorching.  The  least  taste  of  a 
"scorch"  spoils  the  flavor  of  the  gumbo. 
When  well  fried  and  browned,  add  to 
the  boiling  water  tabout  three  quarts) 
and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
letting  it  simmer  gently  for  about  an 
hour  longer.  Serve  hot,  with  nicely 
boiled  rice.  The  remains  of  turkey  may 
be  utilized -^  in  the  gumbo,  instead  of  us- 
ing  chicken. 

In  families  where  it  is  not  possible  to 
procure  a  fow^l,  use  a  round  steak  of 
beef  or  veal,  instead  of  the  chicken,  and 
chop  fine.  But  it  must  always  be  borne 
In  mind  that  the  Chicken  Gumbo  has  the 
best  flavor.  Much,  however,  depends 
upon  the  seasoning,  which  is  always 
high,  and  thus  cooked,  the  Meat  Gumbo 
makes  a  most  nutritious  and  excellent 
dish. 

Crab  Gumbo. 
Gombo    aux    Crabes. 

1  Dozen  Hard-Shell   or  Soft-Shell  Crabs. 
1    Onion. 
6   Large   Fresh   Tomatoes. 
2  Pints  of  Okra,  or  Fifty  Counted. 
Seeds. 
1  Bay  Leaf.  1  Sprig  of  Thyme  or  Parsley. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard  or  Two  Level 
Spoons  of  Butter. 
Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
This    is    a    great   fast-day    or   "maigre" 
dish    with    the    Creoles.       Hard    or    soft- 
shell    crabs    may    be    used,    though    more 
frequently    the    former,    as    they    are    al- 
ways   procurable    and    far    cheaper    than 
the    latter    article,    which    is    considered 
a   luxury.     Crabs   are   always   sold  alive. 
Scald     the    hard-shell     crabs     and    clean 


according  to  recipe  already  given,  "tak- 
ing off  the  dead  man's  fingers"  and  the 
spongy  substances,  and  being  careful  to 
see  that  the  sandbags  on  the  under  part 
are  removed.  Then  cut  off  the  claws, 
crack  and  cut  the  body  of  the  crab  in 
quarters.  Season  nicely  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  the  lard  into  the  pot,  and 
when  hot  throw  in  the  bodies  and  claws. 
Cover  closely,  and,  after  five  or  ten 
minutes,  add  the  skinned  tomatoes, 
chopped  onions,  thyme  and  parsley,  stir- 
ring occasionally  to  prevent  scorching. 
After  five  minutes  add  the  okras,  sliced 
fine,  and  when  well-browned,  without 
the  semblance  of  scorching,  add  the  bay 
leaf,  chopped  fine,  and  the  juice  of  the 
tomatoes.  Pour  over  about  two  quarts 
and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  and  set  back 
on  the  stove  and  let  it  simmer  well  for 
about  an  hour,  having  thrown  in  the 
pepper  pod.  When  nearly  ready  to  serve, 
season  according  to  taste  with  Cayenne 
and  added  salt;  pour  into  a  tureen  and 
serve  with  boiled  rice.  This  quantity 
will  allow  two  soft-shell  crabs  or  two 
bodies  of  hard-shell  crabs  to  each  per- 
®^^  Oyster  Gumbo. 

Gombo    aux    Huitres. 
4  Dozen   Oysters. 
2     Quarts     of     Oyster     Liquor. 
1   Teaspoonful   of   Lard   or   Butter. 
1    Quart    of    Hot    Water. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour. 
1     Large     White     Onion. 
Parsley,    Thyme   and   Bay   Leaf. 
Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 
Put   the   lard   into    a   kettle,   and   when 
hot     add     the     flour,     making     a     brown 
roux.       When  quite  brown  without  burn- 
ing,   add    the    chopped    onions    and    pars- 
ley.      Fry   these,    and   when   brown,    add 
the    chopped    bay    leaf;    pour    in    the   hot 
oyster     liquor     and     then     add     the     hot 
water.      ,When  it  comes   to   a   good  boil, 
just     before     serving,     add     the     oysters 
which    have    been    well    drained,    without 
pouring  water  over  them,  however.  Cook 
for  about  three  minutes  longer  and  take 
off    the    stove    and    stir    gradually    two 
tablespoonfuls    of    File    into    the    boiling 
hot   gumbo.        Have   the    tureen   ready   in 
a   "bain-marie,"    or  hot   water   bath,   and 
pour    in    the    gumbo    and    cover.      Bring 
to  the  table  immediately  and  serve  with 
boiled    rice,    allowing   about   six    or   eight 
oysters    to    each    person. 

Shrimp  Gum^bo. 
Gombo  aux  Chevrettes. 
Lake  shrimp  are  always  used  in  mak- 
ing this  gumbo,  the  river  shrimp  being 
too  small  and  delicate.  Purchase  always 
about  100  shrimp,  or  a  small  basketful, 
for  there  are  always  smaller  shrimp  In 
the  pile  which,  when  cooked,  amount  to 
little  or  nothing.  In  making  Shrimp 
Gumbo,  either  "Fille"  or  Okra  may  be  used 
in  the  combination,  but  it  must  be  borne 
in  mind  that,  while  the  "File"  is  fre- 
quently used,  shrimp  are  far  more  deli- 
cious for  gumbo  purposes  when  used 
with  okra.  The  shrimp  should  always 
be  scalded  or  boiled  before  putting  in 
the  gumbo.  (See  recipe  for  "Boiling 
Shrimp.") 

Shrimp   Gumbo   File, 
Gombo,  File   aux   Chevrettes. 

50    Fine    Lake    Shrimp. 

2    Quarts     of    Oyster    Liquor. 

1    Quart    of   Hot    Water. 

1    Large   White   Onion-.  1   Bay   Leaf. 

3  Sprigs  of  Parsley.    1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard  or  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Flour. 

Dash   of  Cayenne. 

Salt    and    Black    Pepper    to    Taste. 


20 


Scald  and  shell  the  shrimp,  seasoning^ 
highly  with  the  boiling  water.  Put 
the  lard  into  a  kettle,  and,  when  hot, 
add  the  flour,  making  a  brown  roux. 
When  quite  brown,  without  a  semblance 
of  burning,  add  the  chopped  onion  and 
the  parsley.  Fry  these,  and  when  brown, 
add  the  chopped  bay  leaf;  pour  in  the 
hot  oyster  liquor  and  the  hot  water,  or 
use  the  carefully  strained  liquor  in  which 
the  shrimp  have  been  boiled.  When 
it  comes  to  a  good  boil,  and  about  five 
minutes  before  serving,  add  the  shrimp 
to  the  gumbo  and  take  off  the  stove. 
Then  add  to  the  boiling  hot  liquid  about 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  "File,"  thick- 
ening according  to  taste.  Season  again 
witn  salt  and  pepper  to  tasie.  Serve  im- 
mediately with  boiled  rice.  (See  recipe, 
"Boiled    Rice.") 

Green   or  Herb   Gumbo. 
Gomho  aux  Herbes. 
A   Veal    Brisket. 
1  Large  Slice  of  Lean  Ham. 
Equal    Parts   of  the  Leaves   of   Young 
Cabbage,      Radish,      Turnips,        Mustard, 
Spinach,    Watercress,    Parsley   and 
Green    Onion. 
1    Large    Red    or    WTiite    Onion. 
1-2    Red    Pepper    Pod. 
1  Bay  Leaf.  1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1    Sprig    of    Sweet    Marjoram. 
1   Clove.  9  Allspice. 

Cayenne  to  Taste. 
Soak  and  wash  the  leaves  thoroughly, 
being  careful  to  wash  each  leaf  sep- 
arately, to  be  sure  there  lurk  no  in- 
sects in  the  folds  or  ridges.  Then  trim 
by  taking  off  all  the  coarse  midrib  of 
the  leaves,  which  will  make  the  gumbo 
taste  coarse  and  unpalatable.  Boil  the 
leaves  together  for  about  two  hours  and 
then  parboil  by  adding  a  teaspoonful  ol 
cooking  soda.  Strain  and  chop  very 
fine,  being  careful  to  save  the  .water  in 
which  they  were  boiled.  Cut  the  brisket 
of  veal  and  the  sliced  ham  into  small 
pieces  and  dredge  with  black  pepper  and 
salt,  and  chop  one  large  white  or  red  on- 
ion. Put  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  lard 
into  a  deep  frying  pan,  and,  when  hot, 
add  the  chopped  veal  and  the  ham.  Cover 
and  let  it  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning. 
Then  add  the  chopped  onion  and  a  little 
sprig  of  parsley  chopped  fine.  When  it 
comes   to   a  rich   brown,   add  the   greens. 


and  when  these  are  ^''O'^^f'^-  Pe^iu'*}'^^ 
four    quarts    of   the    water    in   which    the 
leaves   have   been   boiled.     Throw    m   the 
finely    chopped    bay    leaf,    thyme,    sweet 
marjoram   and   the   red    pepper   pod    and 
the  clove  and  allspice,  mashed  fine.     Set 
it  hack   on   the   stove  and   let   it  boil  for 
about   one  hour  longer,  adding  the  Cay- 
enne or  "hot  pepper,"  and  you  will  have 
a  regular  Creole  gumbo  peculiar  to  New 
Orleans    alone.      Serve    with    boiled    nee. 
Cabbage    Gumbo. 
Gombo    Choux. 
1    Large    Head    of    Cabbage    (green    and 
white    mixed). 
1    Round    Steak. 
2    Large    Slices    of    Lean    Ham. 
2    Pounds    of    Creole    Sausage. 
(About  6  to  a  Pound). 
1    Pod    of    Cayenne    Pepper,    W^ithout    the 

Seeds. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.  1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

Salt   and    Black    Pepper    and    Cayenne   to 

Taste. 

Shred  the  cabbage  and  wash  each  leaf 
separately  and  thoroughly  to  avoid  in- 
sects. Then  chop  the  entire  head  ver>' 
fine,  into  pieces  about  half  the  size  of 
dice.  Cut  the  steak  or  brisket  into  small 
squares,  also  the  ham,  and  fry  in  the 
deepest  kettle  you  have,  putting  the  meat 
into  the  pot  when  the  lard  is  very  hot. 
When  it  begins  to  brown,  add  a  chopped 
onion  and  the  sausage,  and  then  add  the 
chopped  cabbage,  stirring  and  pouring 
in  enough  water  to  prevent  it  from  burn- 
ing. Throw  in  the  red  pepper  pod  and 
a  dash  of  Cayenne,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Add  a  litle  black  pepper.  Stir  often  and 
allow  the  ingredients  to  cook  well,  grad- 
ually adding,  if  necessary,  a  little  wa- 
ter, and  stirring  frequently  to  prevent 
burning.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  make 
a  cream  sauce  as  follows: 

Take  one  pint  of  new  milk  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  mix  thor- 
oughly, so  as  not  to  be  lumpy.  Stir  this 
into  the  gumbo  while  boiling,  and  con- 
tinue stirring  for  five  minutes.  Serve 
with  boiled  rice.  If  it  is  not  possible 
to  procure  milk,  almost  the  same  effect 
may  be  attained  by  mixing  the  flour  in 
cold  water  of  the  same  measurement  and 
stirring  in  as  already  given.  The  gumbo 
must  not  be  allowed  to  stand  on  the  fire 
after  the  flour  has  been  boiled  on  it  for 
five    minutes,    as    it    will    burn. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 
FISH 

Du  Poisson. 


The  perfectio'n  and  variety  of  the  fish 
found  in  the  New  Orleans  market  are 
unsurpassed.  AVe  have  here  all  the  fish 
found  in  the  waters  of  the  Gulf  of  Mex- 
ico contiguous  to  New  Orleans,  the  Mis- 
siissippi  Sound  and  our  own  lake  shores. 
These  constitute  the  famous  salt-water 
varieties,  such  as  the  Sheepshead,  con- 
sidered by  many  the  best  fish  in  the 
Gulf;  the  famous  Pompano  and  Spanish 
Mackerel,  the  dainty  Croaker,  the  tooth- 
some Flounder,  the  Bluefish,  the  Silver 
Trout,  Tenderloin  Trout,  Speckled  Trout 
and  the  Grouper.  Among  shell  fish  we 
have  the  Hard-Shell  Crab,  the  Soft-Sh-^U 
Crab,  considered  a  great  luxury  In  other 
parts,  but  always  to  be  found  in  the 
New  Orleans  market;  the  appetizing 
Lake  Shrimp;  that  delicicus  bivalve,  the 
Oyster;  the  Crawfish,  and  the  famous 
Green  Turtle,  so  highly  prized  as  a 
dainty  morsel.  Again,  in  the  rivers  and 
bayous   and   small   streams   of   Louisiana 


we  have  many  delightful  varieties  of 
fresh-water  fish,  such  as  fresh-water  or 
Green  Trout,  the  Sacalait  and  a  coarse 
fish  called  the  Buffalo.  The  River 
Shrimp  of  Louisiana  are  unique  in  the 
United  States.  They  are  cf  a  far  more 
delicate  variety  than  the  Lake  Shrimp 
and  much  prized  as  an  article  of  food. 
Both  Lake  and  River  Shrimp  are  abun- 
dant in  the  summer  time  and  are  used 
alike   by  rich   and   poor. 

In  the  following  recipes  the  most  de- 
lightful methods  of  preparing  these  fish 
are  given,  methods  which  may  be  used 
by  all  according  to  the  purse,  the  co-n- 
ditions  of  the  poorest  having  been  con- 
sidered as  well  as  the  wants  of  the 
wealthy.  All  are  equally  recommended, 
being  the  most  perfect  preparations  of 
their  kind  in  use  among  the  Creole 
housekeepers.  It  might  be  added  hers, 
for  the  benefit  of  any  Northern  house- 
keepers into  whose  hands  this  book  may 


21 


fall,  that  many  of  the  recipes  may  be 
modified  according  to  good  judgment  in 
preparing  the  fish  found  exclusively  in 
the  Northern  markets.  For  instance,  in 
making  the  famous  "Courtbouillon," 
which  is  in  all  respects  a  distinctive 
Creole  conception,  any  firm  fish,  such 
as  the  Bass,  may  be  used,  though,  of 
course,  the  flavor  of  the  aelicious  Red 
Snapper  or  Red  Fish  used  by  the  Creoles 
to  the  exclusion  of  all  other  fish  in  mak- 
ing a  "Courtbouillon,"  will  be  found 
wanting.  With  modificatio-ns  that  wi?] 
suggest  themselves  to  any  intelligent 
housekeeper,  they  may  be  used  the  world 
over  in  preparing  fish  of  other  varieties 
than  those  which  are  the  delight  and 
pride  of  the  New  Orleans  J?!isn  Market. 

How  to   Tell  Good  Fish. 

Unless  perfectly  fresh,  fish  is  unfit  for 
use.  Care  should  be  taken  to  see  that 
the  gills .  are  bright  and  red,  the  scales 
shining,  the  eyes  clear  and  the  flesh  very 
firm  and  free  from  any  unpleasant  odor. 
In  the  New  Orleans  Fish  Market  the  ver- 
dors  generally  clean  and  scale  the  fish, 
if  requested  to  do  so;  but  this  cleaning 
and  scaling  is  not  to  be  entirely  depend- 
ed upon,  because  it  is  rarely  thorough, 
only  the  heavier  scales  and  entrails  be- 
ing removed.  On  coming  home  from  the 
market,  the  fish  should  be  Inmaediately 
rescaled  and  thoroughly  cleansed  and 
washed  without  soaking  in  water;  it  is 
far  better  to  let  the  water  run  over  the 
fish,  for  thus  the  smallest  particle  of 
blood  is  removed.  This  is  very  impor- 
tant in  order  to  have  a  good,  wholesome, 
savory  dish.  Then  sprinkle  the  fish  on 
the  inside  with  salt,  and  set  in  the  ice 
box.  If  this  is  wanting,  put  it  in  a  very 
cool  place,  but  it  is  always  best  for  it 
to  remain  on  ice  until  ready  to  use,  es- 
pecially during  the   summer. 

Methods  of  Cooking  Fish. 

Visitors  to  New  Orleans  declare  that 
nowhere  is  fish  cooked  in  such  palatable 
ways  as  in  this  old  Franco-Spanish  city. 
The  experience  of  generations  of  fine  old 
cooks  has  been  brought  to  bear  upon  the 
preparation  of  the  fish  found  in  the  Lou- 
isiana waters,  and  those  of  the  Mexican 
Gulf,  with  the  result  that  a  Creole  code 
of  rules  tor  the  cooking  of  even  the 
smallest  and  less  important  fish  prevails, 
and  it  is  considered  little  short  of  bar- 
barous to  depart  from  it. 

The  Creole  methods  of  boiling  and 
baking  fish  are  the  perfection  of  culinary 
art  and  unlike  any  methed  in  vogue  else- 
where. 

Special  recipes  are,  therefore,  given  for 
the  boiling  and  baking  of  S'heepshead. 
Redfish,  Red  Snapper,  as,  also,  for  mak- 
ing the  world-famous  Creole  "Co'urt- 
bouillon"  and  "Bouillabaise."  These  rules 
should  be  strictly  observed  in  cooking 
these  fish  if  one  would  bring  out  the 
best  flavor  of  each.  But  there  are  other 
fish,  such  as  Green  Trout  and  Perch 
which,  when  simply  boiled  and  served 
with  appropriate  sauces,  are  known  to 
reserve  their  best  flavor  for  this  species 
of   cooking. 

The  following  general  rules  for  boilmg 
broiling,  baking,  stewing  and  trying  fish 
shoulud  be  carefully  followed  wherever 
Indicated   in  the  recipes. 

BOILED    FISH. 

Poisson    Bouilli. 

General    Rules    for    Boiling    Fish. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish  thoroughly. 
Make   a    small    letter    "S"    with   knife    on 


the  ■back;  pass  twine  around  the  body  of 
the  fish  so  as  to  secure  it.  Never  wrap 
or  tie  in  a  cloth.  Have  ready  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water  and  throw  in  a  sprig  of 
onion,  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  eight  or  ten 
cloves,  about  two  dozen  allspice,  all- 
mashed  tine;  a  bit  of  lemon  peel  and  a 
red  pepper  pod.  When  the  water  has 
boiled  long  enough  to  have  extracted  the 
flavor  of  these  ingredients,  drop  the  fish 
in  carefully,  so  as  to  avoid  breaking.  Let 
it  boil  about  ten  minutes  and  then  take 
out  carefully.  Put  into  a  strainer  and 
drain  quickly.  Place  on  a  bed  of  parsley 
with  garnishes  of  lemon  and  serve  either 
a  Mayonnaise  or  Genoise  Sause  or  Sauc-2 
Hollandaise.     (See  recipes.) 

The  Creoles  add  a  clove  of  garlic  to 
the  boiling  water,  but  this  is  according 
to   taste. 

BKOILED     FISH. 

Poisson    Grille. 
General    Bules    for    Broiling    Fish. 

Always  use  the  double  broiler,  made 
of  wire,  as  this  allows  the  coo'k  to  tuin 
the  fish  from  side  to  side  without  dis  ■ 
turbing  the  body  during  the  process  of 
broiling,  and  possibly  breaking  the  flesh 
Clean  the  fish,  without  cutting  off  tho 
head  and  tail.  When  the  fish  is  large 
split  down  the  back;  else  broil  whole. 
Always  serve  broiled  fish  whole.  'Have 
a  clear  moderate  fire.  Expose  first  the 
flesh  side  to  the  fire,  and  then  the  skin, 
as  the  latter  browns  it  is  liajble  to  burn 
quickly.  Great  care  must,  therefore,  be 
taken  not  to  burn  the  skin  side. 

Before  placing  on  the  broiler,  rub  the 
fish  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  mixed  In 
a  little  sweet  oil  or  a  little  butter  oil  or 
butter.  If  the  fish  is  small,  broil  on  a 
quick,  clear  fire;  if  large,  as  mentioned 
above,  the  fire  must  be  moderate,  or  the 
outside  of  the  fish  will  be  charred  before 
the  inside  is  done.  When  the  fish  is  done 
through  and  through,  which  can  quickly 
be  determined  by  the  fish  parting  easily 
from  the  bone,  remove  the  gridiron  from 
the  fire,  and  loosen  the  fms  from  the 
broiler  with  a  knife,  being  careful  not  (o 
break  the  flesh.  Then  place  the  hot  dish 
over  the  fish,  and,  with  a  dexterous 
movement,  turn  the  two  back  again,  thus 
separating  the  gridiron  from  the  fish  and 
placing  the  latter  in  the  dish.  Butter 
well,  seasoned  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  it  deemed  necessary,  and  pour  over 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and 
lemon  juice.  Serve  with  garnishes  of 
sliced  lemon  and  parsley,  or  garnishes 
of  delicate  green  lettuce  leaves. 
BAKFD  FISH. 
Poisson  au  Gratin. 
General   Rules    for    Baking    Fish. 

Clean  the  fish,  cutting  off  the  fins. 
Make  the  letter  "S"  on  the  sides.  Rub 
well  inside  and  out  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Butter  a  stewpan  and  put  In  one  large 
chopped  onion  ahd  a  wineglassful  of 
white  wine.  Place  the  fish  in  the  pan, 
put  in  the  oven  and  let  it  bake  about 
twenty  minutes,  having  been  careful  to 
place  lumps  of  butter  over  it  and  bast- 
ing frequently.  When  done  carefully, 
lift  the  fish  out  of  the  pan  and  put  it 
into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served.  Take  the  gravy  in  which  the 
fish  has  been  cooked  and  add  about  a 
cup  of  oyster  water,  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  two  tablespoontuls  of  chopped 
mushrooms,  one  tablespoonful  of  minced 
parsley,  thyme  and  sweet  marjoram,  ten 
allspice,  one  clove  of  garlic,  a  little  Cay- 
enne, and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix 
all   thoroughly   over  the   stove,   adding  a 


22 


little  butter  if  the  gravy  adheres  too 
much  to  the  pan.  Pour  o-ver  the  fish, 
and  garnish  with  whole  mushrooms  and 
slices  of  lemon  laid  alternately  upon 
Croutons  or  dried  toast,  cut  diamond 
shape. 

STEWED  FISH. 
Poisson  en  Matelote. 
General  Rules  for  Stewing:  Fish. 
Clean  the  fish  well  and  slice  and  pour 
over  one  cup  of  good,  boiling  vinegar. 
Make  a  roux  by  putting  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard  into  the  stewpan,  and  when 
hot  add  gradually  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  rubbed  smoothly.  When  quite 
brown,  take  the  fish,  which  has  been 
previously  rubbed  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  place  in  the  pot.  Let  it  sim- 
mer gently  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  add  a  large  chopped  onion, 
parsley,  one  clove  of  garlic,  one  sprig  of 
thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  two  blades  of  mace 
and  eight  or  ten  allspice.  Let  .  these 
brown  and  cover  with  water  sufficient 
to  prevent  burning.  Put  the  fish  on  a 
slow  fire  to  stew,  and  when  half  done, 
add  a  little  Cayenne,  and,  if  possible, 
add  a  pint  or  glass  of  Port  wine.  When 
done,  place  the  fish  in  a  dish,  pour  the 
gravy  over  it,  and  garnish  with  Crou- 
tons, with  alternate  slices  of  lemon  and 
prepared  horseradish. 

FRIED    FISH. 

Poissons  Frits. 
General    Rules    for    Frying    Fish. 

Certain  of  the  fish  of  the  Mexican 
Gulf  are  always  best  when  fried.  Of 
these  are  the  toothsome  Croakers,  the 
delicate  Sacalait  and  Patassas,  and  also 
the  Speckled  Trout  when  served  in  ten- 
derloin steaks. 

The  secret  of  good  frying  lies  in  hav- 
ing the  lard  heated  just  to  the  prO'per 
point.  If  the  fish  is  placed  in  the  boil- 
ing lard.  It  is  liable  to  burn  quickly  with- 
out being  cooked  through  and  through. 
If  placed  simply  in  the  well-heated  lard. 
It  absorbs  the  fat  and  is  delicate  and 
tender  and  there  is  no  tax  upon  the  di- 
gestive organs.  Always  have  sufficient 
lard  in  the  pan  to  fry  all  the  fish  that  is 
on  hand,  and  never  add  a  lump  of  cold 
lard  to  the  heated  substance.  This 
checks  the  cooking  of  the  fish  and  spoils 
the  taste.  If  the  lard  spits  and  crackles, 
that  is  no  evidence  of  boiling.  It  only 
means  that  the  lard  is  throwing  off  drops 
of  moisture  that  have  crept  in.  Boiling 
lard  is  perfectly  still  until  it  begins  t^ 
smoke,  and  then  it  is  in  danger  of  burn- 
ing and  must  be  removed  from  the  fire. 
To  test  the  lard,  drop  In  a  piece  of  bread. 
If  It  begins  to  color,  the  lard  Is  ready  for 
frying.  W^hen  the  fish  is  fried,  skim 
It  out,  draining  off  all  the  fat.  Butter  is 
never  used  in  frying  fish,  as  it  burns 
quickly. 

A    Short   Resume   of  the    Way   in    Which 

Fish  of  the  New  Orleans  Market 

Should  Always  Be  Cooked. 

Sheepshead  may  be  boiled,  broiled  or 
baked,  and  is  good  with  any  sauce. 

Redflsh  is  principally  used  in  making 
"Courtboulllon,"  or  It  Is  boiled  and 
served  with  an  HoUandaise  Sauce,  or 
baked. 

Red  Snapper  should  always  be  bollea 
or  baked.  It  is  delightful  served  a  la 
Chambard,  but  It  Is  best  a  la  Creole. 

Grouper  Is  served  In  the  same  way 
as  Red  Snapper. 

Flounder  should  always  be  baked  a  la 
Nouvelle    Orleans,     or    a     la     Normande, 


or  with  a  white  wine  sauce  as  in  Baked 
Sheepshead,  or  in  the  famous  recipe 
"Sole  a  la   Orly."     (See  recipe  ) 

Pompano  should  always  be  broiled  and 
served  with  Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d  Hotel. 

Spanish  Mackerel  should  always  be 
broiled  in  the  same  manner  as  Pompano, 
and  served  with  Sauce  a  la  Maitre 
d'lHotel.  ,     , 

Bluefish  should  be  cooked  and  served 
in  the  same  manner  as  Pompano  and 
Spanish    Mackerel. 

Speckled  Trout  is  generally  broiled  and 
served  in  tenderloin,  or  a  Tenderloin 
Trout,  with  Sauce  a  la  Tartare. 

Green  Trout  and  Perch  should  be 
broiled  and  served  with  a  Sauce  a  la 
Maitre  d'Hotel,  or  else  boiled  and  served 
with  a  Sauce  Genoise,  or  an  HoUandaisa 
or  Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

Croakers  are  fried  and  served  with 
garnish    of    parsley    or   lemon. 

Patassas,  Sacalait  and  other  small  fish 
are  served  in  the  same  manner  as  Croak- 
ers. 

Soft-Shell  Crabs  may  be  fried  in  th« 
same  manner  as  Croakers,  or  broiled  and 
served  on  toast. 

Shrimp  are  generally  boiled,  witQ 
plenty  of  seasoning.  The  River  Shrimp 
are  always  served  as  boiled,  shells  and 
all,  but  the  Lake  Shrimp  enter  into  many 
combinations   in   cooking. 

Hard-Shell  Crabs  may  be  stuffed, 
stewed,   fried  and  ntade   into   Gumbo. 

All  left-over  broiled,  baked  or  boiled 
fish  should  be  utilized  in  making  salads, 
croquettes,  etc. 

Oysters  are  served  in  almost  every 
conceivable  way,  and  enter  into  the  most 
delightful    combinations    in    cooking. 

A  fish  weighing  three  pounds,  or  smail 
fish  in  quantity  sufficient  to  make  three 
pounds  (uncooked)  will  serve  six  per- 
sons. 

THE    SHEEPSHEAD. 

Casburgot. 

Of  all  the  fish  found  in  the  waters  of 
the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  the  Sheepshead  i» 
perhaps  the  most  to  be  commended  for 
frequent  household  use,  being  susceptible 
of  a  far  greater  variety  of  modes  of  prep- 
aration than  any  other  fish,  the  flesh 
being  of  a  less  richer  fiber  than  the  Red- 
fish,  Red  Snapper,  Pompano  and  Spanish 
Mackerel,  it  may  be  used  from  day  to 
day  without  injury  to  the  stomach.  It  is 
good  in  almost  any  form  and  may  be 
boiled,  baked  or  broiled,  and  served  with 
almost  any  sauce. 

Boiled    Sheepshead. 

Casburgot  Bouilli. 

A  3-Pound    Sheepshead.    1   Sliced    Onion. 
3     Bay     Leaves.    1     Sprig    of    Thyme.    1 

Sprig  of   Parsley. 
1    Sprig    of    Sweet    Marjoram.    1    Table- 
spoonful  of  French  Vinegar. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
A   Cream    Sauce. 

^Vash  and  thoroughly  clean  the  fish, 
and  then  lay  on  a  pan  and  open  the 
flesh  on  either  side  bv  making  the  letter 
"S"  with  the  knife.  This  is  done  to  pre- 
vent the  fish  from  puffing  out  or  draw- 
ing up,  and  to  insure  thorough  cooking 
and  a  perfect  shape  afterwards.  Then 
tie  the  fish  well  with  cord  or  twine, 
wrapping  It  around  the  body.  Nevsr 
encase  a  boiled  fish  In  a  cloth;  put  the 
fish  in  a  deep  saucepan  and  add  boiling 
water  sufficient  for  the  fish  to  swim  in 
it.  Throw  In  a  tablespoonful  of  spice 
(well  mashed),  a  sliced  onion,  three  bay 
leaves,  a  sprig  of  parsley  (all  chopped 
very    fine),    a    tablespoonful    of    French 


23 


vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cover  well  and  let  it  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes. After  ten  minutes,  ttie  fish  In 
cooked.  Prepare  a  "Cream  Sauce"  (soo 
recipe)    and   serve    immediately. 

Sheepshead    u    la    Creole. 

Casburgot  a  la  Creole. 

A  3-Pound  Sheepshead. 
2    Onions.     1    Bunch    of    Parsley. 

2  Sprigs    of    Thyme.     4    Bay    Leaves.     1 

Sprig  of  Sweet  Marjoram. 

1  Quart    of    Boiled    Cream.    Tolks    of    1 

Eggs. 

3  Tablespoonfuls     of    Flour.      2     Tablo- 

spoonfuls  of  Butter. 
Bread  Crumbs. 
Prepare  the  Sheepshead  as  for  boiling 
(see  recipe  Boiled  Sheepshead).  When 
quite  done,  take  out  of  the  water  and 
flake  off  ail  the  flesh  from  the  bones. 
Have  ready  a  quart  of  boiled  cream 
or  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
mix  -with  the  cream.  Chop  one  large 
onion,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  sprig  each 
of  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  and  add  to  the 
cream  and  eggs.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
while  boiling,  throw  in  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour,  rubbed  perfectly  smooth, 
in  a  little  cream,  and  about  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Remove  from  the 
fire.  Have  ready  a  deep  dish,  well  but- 
tered, and  put  in  a  layer  of  fish  and 
then  a  layer  of  the  sauce,  until  the  dish 
is  full.  Sprinkle  over  with  bread  crumbs. 
Place  in  the  oven  and  bake  about  a  half 
hour,   or   until   bro"wn. 

Baked  Sheepshead. 

Casburgot  au   Gratin. 

A  3-Pound   Sheepshead.     1   Large   Onion. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter.  1  Bay  Leaf. 
1  Sprig   of   Thyme.     1-2   Bottle   of   White 

"Wine. 
6  Fresh  Tomatoes.  2  Dozen  Lake  Shrimp. 

1  Dozen  Oysters.     1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

2  Crackers.  Dry  Toast  Cut  in  Dice  Shape. 
3  S'prigs  Chopped  Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish;  place  on  a 
platter:  chop  one  large  onion  fine,  rub 
the  fish  first  with  salt  and  black  pepper, 
and  then  take  a  large  and  deep  kitchen 
pan;  place  within  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, the  chopped  onion,  bay  "leaf  and 
thyme.  Place  the  fish  on  top  of  this  and 
pour  over  a  half  bottle  of  white  wine. 
Cover  with  another  close  pan  and  put 
the  whole  on  top  of  the  oven  (not  on  the 
inside).  Bake  from  the  bottom".  When 
it  begins  to  boil  from  below,  turn  the 
fish  over  carefully  without  breaking,  and 
let  it  bake  on  the  other  side.  Take  a 
saucepan  and  put  within  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  mix  thoroughly  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Let  it  brown 
without  burning,  and  then  add  six  fresh 
tomatoes,  skinned  and  chopped  fine,  or  a 
half  can.  Add  two  dozen  Lake  Shrimp 
that  have  been  cleaned  well  and  scalded, 
a  half  can  of  mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Let  all  cook  for  about  five 
minutes  and  then  water  with  the  gravj' 
in  which  the  fish  is  cooking.  Mix  well 
and  cover  the  fish  with  it.  Parboil  one 
dozen  oysters,  and  when  the  fish  is 
cooked  set  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
to  be  served  and  place  the  oysters  all 
around  it  on  small  slices  of  dry  toast. 
Cover  the  fish  alternately  with  th? 
shrimp  and  oysters,  as  a  garnish  over 
and  around  it.  Mash  two  crackers  into 
crumbs  and  sprinkle  over,  and  place  al- 
ternately small  bits  of  butter  on  top  of 
the  fish.  Place  the  dish  in  the  oven  and 
bake  the  fish  with  a  quick  fire  until 
brown,  and  serve  immediately. 


Baked   Sheepshead   a  la   Creole, 

Casburgot  a  la  Creole  au  Gratin. 

A  3-Pound  Sheepshead. 

1    Cup    of    Stale    Bread    Crumbs. 

1    Onion.    1    Tablespoonful    of    Chopped 

Parsley. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 

1     Tablespoonful     of    Lard.      1     Pint     of 

White    Wine    or    Boiling    Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  and  Flour  to  Dredge. 

A     Hollandaise,     Bechamel     or     Tomato 

Sauce. 

The  folio-wing  is  a  more  simple  man- 
ner, where  means  are  limited,  of  baking 
Sheepshead  for  frequent  family  use; 
Clean  the  fish  thoroughly,  inside  and 
out;  wash  well  and  dry  thoroughly  with 
a  clean  towel.  Rub  it  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  then  make  a  dressing,  taking  one 
cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  wet  and 
squeezed  thoroughly  of  all  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful of  chopper  parsley,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  black  i>epper. 
Mix  well  and  fry  in  a  little  lard.  One 
dozen  oysters  or  shrimp,  or  the  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  added  and  mixed 
increase  the  flavor  of  the  dressing,  but 
the  dressing  can  be  made  very  nicely 
without.  After  frying  the  dressing  a  few 
minutes  take  off  the  stove  and  stuff  the 
body  of  the  fish  and  sew  up  with  soft 
thread  on  soft  yarn.  Score  or  slit  the  fish 
on  either  side,  making  the  scores  about 
an  inch  apart,  and  lard  it  either  by  put- 
ting a  strip  of  salt  fat  in  each  gash  or 
filling  with  lard.  Grease  the  bottom  of 
a  baking  pan,  put  the  fish  In  and  dredge 
thickly  with  salt  and  flour  and  a  little 
Cayenne.  If  possible,  pour  over  a  half 
bottle  of  white  wine,  otherwise  simply 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  the 
grease,  add  a  little  boiling  water,  and 
put  the  fish  in  a  hot  oven.  Baste  every 
ten  minutes  or  so  by  taking  a  spoon  and 
pouring  the  gravy  over  the  fish.  Allow 
about  'fifteen  minutes  of  baking  to  every 
pound  of  fish,  the  ordinary  sized  fish  of 
four  pounds  requiring  about  one  hour. 
When  brown  on  one  side,  turn  on  the 
other,  and  when  done  carefully  slide  the 
fish  into  the  center  of  the  flat  dish  In 
which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  garnish 
nicely  with  slices  of  lemon,  fried  potato 
'balls  and  chopped  parsley.  Make  -tha 
garnish  by  placing  sprigs  of  parsley  be- 
tween the  fried  potato  balls  and  laying 
on  tlie  slices  of  lemon.  Serve  "with  Hol- 
landaise Sauce  or  Bechamel  Sauce.  (Sea 
recipes.) 

Again,  where  the  fish  is  not  baked  in 
wine  and  served  with  separate  sauce  a 
good  sauce  from  its  own  juices  may  be 
made.  Simply  grease  and  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan  with  boiling  water  and 
place  in  the  fish.  As  it  begins  to  bake 
well  take  a  half  dO'zen  good  fresh  toma- 
toes or  a  half  can  of  tomatoes,  one 
onion,  one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme 
and  a  blade  of  mace,  chop  all  fine,  and 
mix  thoroughly  and  pour  over  the  baK- 
ing  fish.  Add  a  little  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  very  good  every-day  sauce 
■will  be  the  result. 


BED    SNAPPBB    AND    EBDFISH. 

Red    Snapper    et    Poisson    Rouge. 

These  are  distinctive  fish,  and  form 
unique  and  most  delightful  dishes  of  th* 
Creole  cuisine. 


24 


Courtbouillon    a    la    Creole. 

Six  Fine  Slices  of  Redfish  or  Red  Snap- 
per   (equal   to   3   Pounds.) 
1  Tablespoontul   of  Lard.    2  Tablespoon- 

fuls    of    Flour. 

12     Well-Mashed    Allspice.     3    S'prigs     of 

Thyme. 

3  Sprigs  Parsley.     3   Sprigs  Sweet 

Marjoram.  3  Bay  Leaves. 

1  Large  Onion.    1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

6  Large  Fresh  Tomatoes  or  a  Half  Can. 

1    Quart    of    Water,    1    Glass    of    Claret. 

The    Juice    of   1    Lemon. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Those  kings  of  the  New  Orleans  French 

Market,  the  Red  Snapper  or  the  Redfish, 

are  used   in  making  the  pride  and   glory 

of    the    New    Orleans    cuisines,      a      good 

"Courtbouillon."        More     generally     and 

with   finer   results  the  Redfish   or     Pois- 

son    Rouge"    is    used.        This    fish    may 

always   be   known  by  the  single   spot  on 

the  tail.  ,.       ,, 

To  make  a  real  Courtbouillon  shoe  the 
Redfish  in  fine,  clear-cut  pieces,  after 
having  thoroughly  washed  and  cleaned 
it.  Make  a  "Roux"  by  putting  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard  in  a  deep  can  or 
kettle.  When  hot  add  gradually  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  prevent  burning.  Throw 
in  about  ten  or  twelve  well-mashed  all- 
spice, and  three  sprigs  each  of  chopped 
thyme,  parsley,  bay  leaf  and  sweet  mar- 
joram, one  clove  of  garlic  and  one  large 
onion,  chopped  very  fine.  Add  six 
fresh,  large  tomatoes,  chopped  fine,  or 
one-half  can  of  tomatoes.  Pour  in 
one  glass  of  good  claret,  add  about 
one  quart  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  well. 
Then  add  salt  and  Cayenne  to  taste,  and 
when  this  has  boiled  about  five  minutes 
add  the  fish,  putting  in  slice  by  slice. 
Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let  all 
boil  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  with 
French  fried  potatoes,  mashed  potatoes 
or   potato   croquettes. 

A  Courtbouillon  of  Red  Snappe"  is 
made  in   the   same  way. 

Spanish     Courtbonillon. 

Courtbouillon  a  I'Espagnole. 

6  Slices  of  Redfish  or  Red  Snapper  (Piual 

to    3    pounds). 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard.     2  Tablespoon- 
fuls of  Flour. 
1   Large   Onion,   6  Tomatoes,  3  Sprigs   of 

Parsley. 

1   Clove    of   Garlic.     3    Sprigs    of    Thyme. 

1    Sprig   of    Sweet   Basil. 

2  Bay  Leaves.  1  Cup  of  White  Wine. 

2   Pints   of   Water. 

The  delightful  adaptability  of  the 
New  Orleans  cuisine  to  the  wants  of  all 
the  people  may  be  seen  in  the  folio-w- 
ing Courtbouillon,  which  is  in  general 
use  among  the  families  of  moderate 
means,  and  is,  indeed,  a  very  pleasing 
way  of  cooking  Redfish: 

Take  four  to  six  slices  of  Redfish. 
Make  a  Roux  by  putting  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  lard  into  the  stew  pan,  and  when 
It  is  hot,  stir  in  gradually  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.  Add  one  large 
chopped  onion,  six  tomatoes  (chopped), 
the  chopped  parsley,  clove  of  garllo, 
sweet  basil  and  thyme,  all  chopped  very 
fine.  Add  two  bay  leaves  whole.  When 
it  browns  nicely  without  burning,  pour 
In  about  two  pints  of  water  and  let  It 
come  to  a  boil.  Rub  the  fish  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  it  a  cup 
of  boiling  vinegar,  if  you  have  no  white 
wine.  Put  the  fish  slice  bv  slice  into 
the  pot  and  let  It  simmer  for  about  a 
half   hour,    or    until    the    flesh    begins    to 


he  soft  Then  remove  from  the  fire, 
take  out  of  the  pot,  and  lay  the  slices 
in  a  msh.  Take  the  bay  leaves  out  of 
the  gravy,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  fish, 
and    serve      with      garnishes      of      sliced 

It  is  a  most  economical  Friday  or  fast- 
day  dish  in  large  families  when  served 
with  boiled  rice,  or  potatoes  boiled 
whole. 


BouillabalBse, 


6  Slices  of 


6    Slices    of   Red   Snapper. 
Redfish. 

1-2  Bottle  of  White  Wine.     1-2  Lemon. 

6    Large    Fresh    Tomatoes,    or    1-2    Can. 

3    Onions.     I  Herb   Bouquet 

3    Cloves    of    Garlic. 

3  Bay  I^eaves.     3  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 

3    Sprigs    of    Parsley. 

6  Allspice.    2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 

1  Good  Strong  Pinch  of  Saffron. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

This  is  the  dish  that  drew  from  Thack- 
eray that  famous  tribute  to  Creole  Cook- 
ery: "In  New  Orleans  you  can  eat  a 
Bouillabaisse,  the  like  of  which  was  nev- 
er   eaten    in    Marseilles    or    Paris." 

The  reason  is  clear,  for  in  those  old 
French  cities  the  Bouillabaisse  is  made 
from  the  fish  of  the  waters  of  the  Medi- 
terranean sea,  notably  the  Sturgeon  and 
the  Perch  combined,  while  in  New  Or- 
leans it  is  made  from  those  matchless 
fish  of  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  the  Red  Snap- 
per and  the  Redfish  (Poisson  Rouge).  It 
will  be  noticed  that  it  takes  two  kinds 
of  fish  to  make  a  Bouillabaisse.  The 
first  Bouillabaisse  was  made  in  Marseil- 
les, and  the  old  Creole  tradition  runs 
that  it  was  the  discovery  of  two  sailor 
fishermen,  who  were  disputing  as  they 
sat  in  a  schooner  as  to  the  proper  way 
of  cooking  a  Sturgeon  and  Perch  com- 
bined. Both  essayed:  One  succeeded 
in  making  a  delightful  dish  that  would 
have  gladened  the  heart  of  any  old 
French  "bon  vivant."  The  other  failed. 
The  successful  one  enthusiastically  of- 
fered to  teach  his  friend,  and  as  the 
latter  was  following  the  directions  im- 
plicitly, and  the  finishing  touches 
were  being  given  to  the  dish,  the  teach- 
er, seeing  that  the  critical  and  Impor- 
tant mofnent  had  come  when  the  fish 
must  be  taken  from  the  fire,  or  It  would 
be  spoiled  if  it  cooked  a  moment  longer, 
cried  out,  bringing  dowTi  his  hand  em- 
phatically: "Et  quand  ca  commence  a 
bouillir — Baisse!"  Hence  the  name 
"Bouillabaisse,"  which  was  given  to 
the  dish  from  that  moment.  From  all 
portions  of  Europe  people  go  to  Marseil- 
les to  eat  a  "Bouillabaisse"  on  the  sea- 
shore. 

The  Creole  Bouillabaisse,  with  the 
modifications  and  improvements  that 
early  ingenuity  suggested,  Is  a  dish 
that  was  the  standing  offering  In  ante- 
bellum days  to  every  distinguished  Pari- 
sian or  foreigner  that  visited  New  Or- 
leans. Its  reputation  Is  sustained  by 
the  Creole  cusinieres  of  our  own  day.  It 
is   made   as   follows: 

First  cut  off  the  head  of  the  Red  Snap- 
per and  boil  it  In  about  one  and  a  half 
quarts  of  water,  so  as  to  make  a  fish 
stock.  Put  one  sliced  onion  and  a  herb 
bouquet  consisting  of  thyme,  bay  leaf 
and  parsley,  into  the  water.  When  re- 
duced to  one  pint,  take  out  the  head  ot 
the  fish  and  the  herb  bouquet  and  strain 
the  water  and  set  it  aside  for  use  later 
on. 

Take  six  slices  ot  Redfish  and  six 
slices  of  Red  Snapper  of  equal  sizes  and 


25 


rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mince 
three  sprigs  of  thyme,  three  sprigs  of 
parsley,  three  bay  leaves  and  three  cloves 
of  garlic,  very,  very  fine,  and  take  six 
allspice  and  grind  them  very  fine,  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  minced  herbs 
and  garlic.  Then  take  each  slice  of 
fish  and  rub  well  with  this  mixture  till 
every  portion  is  permeated  by  the  herbs, 
spice  and  garlic.  They  must  be,  as  it 
were,  soaked  into  the  flesh,  if  you  would 
achieve  the  success  of  this  dish.  Take 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  olive  oil  and 
put  into  a  very  large  pan,  so  large  that 
each  slice  of  the  Tish  may  he  put  in  with- 
out one  piece  overlapping  the  other.  Chop 
two  onions  very  fine  and  add  them  to 
the  heating  oil .  Lay  the  fish  slice  by 
slice  in  the  pan  and  cover,  and  let  them 
"etouffe,"  or  smother  for  about  ten  min- 
utes, turning  once  over  so  that  each  side 
may  cook  partly.  Then  take  the  fish 
out  of  the  pai.  and  set  the  slices  in  a 
dish.  Pour  a  half  bottle  of  white  wine 
into  the  pan  and  stir  well.  Add  a  half 
can  of  tomatoes,  or  six  large,  fresh  to- 
matoes sliced  fine,  and  let  them  boil  well. 
Then  add  half  a  lemon,  cut  in  very  thin 
slices,  and  pour  over  a  pint  of  the  liquor 
In  which  the  head  of  the  snapper  was 
boiled.  Season  well  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper  and  a  dash  of  Cayenne.  Let  it 
boil  until  very  strong  and  till  reduced 
almost  one  half;  then  lay  the  fish  slice 
-by  slice,  apart  one  from  the  other,  in 
the  pan,  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  In 
the  meantime  have  prepared  one  good 
pinch  of  saffron,  chopped  very  fine.  Set 
it  in  a  small  deep,  dish  and  add  a  lit- 
tle of  the  sauce  in  which  the  fish  is 
boiling  to  dissolve  well.  When  well 
melted,  and  when  the  fish  has  been  just 
five  minutes  in  the  pan,  spread  the  saf- 
fron over  the  top  of  the  fish  Take 
out  of  the  pan,  lay  each  slice  on  toast, 
which  has  been  fried  in  butter;  pour  the 
sauce  over  and  serve  hot  immediately. 
You  will  have  a  dish  that  Lucullus  would 
have    envied. 


Boiled    Redfish    or    Boiled    Bed    Snapper. 

Poisson    Rouge    ou    Red    Snapper 
Bouilli. 

A  3-Pound  Redfish  or  Red  Snapper. 

1     Sliced     Onion. 
3    Bay    Leaves.      1    Sprig    of    Xhyme. 
3    Sprigs    of    Parsley. 
1    Sprig    of    Sweet    Marjoram.    1    Table- 
spoonful    of   French   Vinegar. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
An    Hollandaise     Sauce. 

Wash  and  thoroughly  clean  the  fish, 
and  then  lay  on  a  pan  and  open  the 
flesh  on  either  side  by  making  the  let- 
ter "S"  with  the  knife.  This  is  done  to 
prevent  the  fish  from  puffing  out  or 
drawing  up.  and  to  insure  thorough 
cooking  and  a  perfect  shape  afterwards. 
Then  tie  the  fish  well  with  cord  or  twine, 
wrapping  it  around  the  body.  Never  en- 
case a  boiled  fish  in  a  cloth;  put  the 
fish  in  a  deep  saucepan  and  add  boil- 
ing water  sufficient  for  the  fish  to  swim 
in  it.  Throw  in  a  tablespoonful  of  spice 
(well 'mashed),  a  sliced  onion,  three  bay 
leaves,  a  sprigr  of  thyme  and  sweet  mar- 
joram, a  sprig  of  parsley  (all  chopped 
very  fine),  a  tablespoonful  of  French 
vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cover  well  and  let  it  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes. After  ten  minutes,  the  fish  is 
cooked.  Prepare  a  "Cream  Sauce"  (See 
recipe),    and    serve    immediately. 


Baked  Bed  Snapper. 

Red  Snapper  a  la  Creole. 

A  Fine  Red  Snapper,  3  Pounds  in  Weight. 

2  Dozen  Oysters.    2  Dozen  Boiled  Shrimp. 

1  Dozen  Boiled  Crawfish. 

2  Large     Onions.    2     Tablespoonfuls     of 

Butter. 
1  Cup  of  Stale  Bread  Crumbs. 

3  Large    Tomatoes.     1-2    Can    of    Musb 

rooms. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

2    Bay    Leaves.     6    Allspice.     3    Cloves.    1 

Bottle  of  White  Wine. 

Salt   and   Pepper. 

Clean  and  wash  the  Red  S'napper  thor- 
oughly. Make  a  cut  in  the  shape  of  the 
letter  "S"  en  the  back  and  stuff  this  with 
spice,  thyme,  clove  and  bay  leaf,  chopped 
fine.  Rub  thoroughly  inside  and  out 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  good 
stuffing  by  taking  one  dozen  oysters, 
one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  wet  ana 
squeezed  of  all  water,  one  large  onloxi 
chopped  fine,  a  half  teaspoonful  o-f  salt 
and  a  little  black  pepper.  Mix  well  and 
fry  in  a  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter. Stuff  the  body  of  the  fish  and  sew 
up  with  soft  thread.  Lard  well — that  If. 
rub  thoroughly  with  lard — and  place  in 
the  oven.  Pour  over  immediately  a  bottle 
of  white  wine,  and  let  the  fish  bake  well 
in  the  wine.  In  the  meantime  prepare 
the  following  sauce:  Take  one  large  ta 
blespc'onful  of  butter,  one  large  choppt.d 
onion,  one  sprig  of  thyme,  one  of  bay 
leaf.  Brown  the  onions  and  butter,  be- 
ing careful  not  to  burn,  and  put  In  three 
tomatoes;  add  the  chopped  herbs;  browa 
and  add  a  pint  of  oyster  water  which 
has  been  heated  by  blanching  the  oysters, 
(Blanching  means  to  place  the  oysters  on 
the  fire  in  their  own  water  and  heat 
thoroughly  without  boiling.)  S'eason  the 
sauce  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have 
ready  in  another  dish  one  dozen  par- 
boiled or  blanched  oysters  and  two  dozen 
boiled  shrimp.  Put  the  fish  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  to  be  served;  garnish  w^ith 
the  oysters  and  shrimp,  placing  them 
over  the  fish,  and  mingle  about  a  half 
can  of  mushrooms.  Have  also  ready  a 
dozen  nicely  boiled  crawfish.  Garnish 
the  fish  with  these,  placing  them  all 
around  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served.  Pour  the  sauce  over  all  and  set 
in  the  oven  and  bake  a  few  minutes 
longer  and  serve  hot. 

A    Simple   Every-Day   Becipe   for   Baking: 
Bed    Snapper. 

Red   Snapper   au    Gratin. 

1  Fine  3-Pound  Red  Snapper. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1    Large   Onion.     3   Sprigs   of  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Cup  of  Stale  Bread  Crumbs. 

1-2   Teacup   of   Water.     Salt   and   Pepper. 

Select  a  fine,  large  fish,  clean  and  wash 
thoroughly.  Make  a  dressing  by  taking 
one  cup  of  stale  bread,  wet  and  squeezed 
of  all  water;  one  large  onion  and  three 
sprigs  of  parsley.  Chop  the  onions  and 
parsley  fine  and  liiix  with  the  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  a  spoonful  of  butter, 
seasoning  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Stuff  the  fish  and  sew  up  with  a  soft 
thread.  Then  rub  the  fish  thoroughly 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter.  Put 
small  pieces  of  butter  all  over  the  fish 
and  add  a  few  pieces  on  the  bottom,  of 
the  baking  pan.  Pour  in  water  to  the 
depth  of  two  inches,  cover  the  pan  and 
bake  on  the  outside  c-f  the  oven,  about  an 
hour  and  a  half.     When  the  fish  is  baked 


26 


in  the  oven  it  partakes  more  of  the  char- 
acter  of  roasted    fish. 

Ked   Snapper   a  la   Chambord. 

A     Fine     Red     Snapper,     3     Pounds     in 
"Weight. 

2    Dozen    Oysters.     1-2    Can    Mushrooms. 
3   Larg-e  Tomatoes.     2  Large   Onions. 

1  Cup  of  Stale  Bread. 
3  oprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

2  Bay    Leaves.     6   Allspice.     3   ClO'ves. 

'  1  Bottle  of  White  Wine. 
Salt  and  Pepper. 
Clean  and  wash  the  Red  Snapper  care- 
fully. Cut  a  space  six  inches  square  on 
the  surface  of  the  upper  side  of  the  fish, 
and  carefully  remove  the  skin  within 
the  enclosed  space.  Then  lard  this  space 
closely  with  very  fine  larding  needles,  and 
fill  in  with  spice,  thyme,  clove  and  bay 
leaf,  all  minced  very  fine.  Rub  thor- 
oughly inside  and  outside  with  salt. 
Make  a  good  stuffing  by  taking  one 
dozen  oysters,  one  cup  of  stale  bread 
crumbs,  wet  and  squeezed  of  all  water; 
one  large  onion,  chopped  fine;  a  half 
tablespoonful  of  salt  and  black  pepper 
to  taste.  Mix  well  and  fry  in  a  pan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  bujtter.  Stuff  the 
body  of  the  fish  and  sew  up  with  soft 
thread.  Lard  well  and,  after  rubbing 
thoroughly  with  the  lard,  place  in  the 
oven.  A-our  over  immediately  a  bottle 
of  white  wine  and  let  the  fish  bake  well 
in  the  wine.  In  the  meantime  prepare 
the  following  sauce:  Take  one  large  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter,  one  large  chopped 
onion,  one  sprig  of  thyme,  one  of  bay 
leaf.  Brown  the  onions  and  butter,  being 
careful  not  to  burn,  and  put  in  three 
large  tomatoes.  Add  the  chopped  herbs, 
brown  and  add  the  pint  of  oyster  water, 
which  has  been  heated  with  blanchin,^ 
the  oysters.  (Blanching  means  to  place 
ciie  oysters  on  the  fire  in  their  0"wn  wa- 
ter and  heat  thoroughly  without  boil- 
ing.) Season  the  sauce  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Put  th6  fish  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  garnish 
with  the  oysters,  placing  them  over  the 
fish  and  mingling  between  about  a  half 
can  of  mushrooms.  After  garnishing  the 
fish  nicely,  pour  the  sauce  over  all  and 
set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  longer  and 
serve  hot. 

Red  Snapper  With  Tomato  Sauce. 

Red   Snapper  a  la  S'auce  Tomate. 

A  Fine  Red  Snapper,  3  Pounds  in  Weight. 

12  Large  Tomatoes  or  a  Can. 

1-2  Can  C'f  Mushrooms. 

2  Large  Onions. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 
2   Bay   Leaves.     6  Allspice.     3   Cloves. 

1-2  Inch  of  Garlic,  or  1  Clove. 

1  Cup  of  Stale  Bread  Crumbs. 

1  Bottle   of   "White   Wine. 

1     Large     Tablespoonful     of     Butter,     oi 

Olive   Oil. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Salt  and  Red  Pepper. 

Prepare  the  fish,  following  the  direc- 
tions given  in  the  recipe  for  Red  Snapper 
a  la  Creole  to  the  point  of  larding  thor- 
oughly. After  larding  pour  over  imme- 
diately the  bottle  of  white  wine,  and  let 
the  fish  bake  well  in  the  wine.  If  wine 
is  not  available,  use  a  cup  of  "warm  water 
instead;  but  the  wine  enhances  the  tast.i 
of  the  dish.  When  the  fish  is  done,  put 
one  tablespoonful  of  nlive  oil  or  one 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan,  and  one  large  chopped  onion 
and  let  brown;  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  and  let  the  same  brown.  Then 
take  the  sliced  and  chopped  fresh  toma- 
toes, or  strain  a  can  of  tomatoes  in  lieu 


of  the  former,  and  add  to  the  sauce 
Add  immediately  a  small  glass  of  the 
best  white  wine,  and  a  halt  can  of  mush- 
rooms chopped  fine.  Place  "i  the  sauce 
the  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs,  thyme  bay 
leaf  and  add  an  inch  of  garlic,  minced 
very  fine.  Season  with  red  pepper  only. 
Pour  this  sauce  over  the  baked  fish  after 
placing  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served;  set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes 
and  bring  to  the  table  hot. 

Redfish,   Sheepshead   and   Grouper  may 
also  be  cooked  according  to  this  recipe. 

A    Simple   Way   of   Baking   Bedflsh. 

Poisson  Rouge  au  Gratin. 

6   Slices   of   Redfish   or  a   Fish   Weighing 

3  Pcoinds. 

2  Large  Onions.    3  Stirigs  of  Parsley. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

3  Sprigs   of  Thyme.     1  Bay  Leaf. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A  HoUandaise  Sauce. 

Clean  the  outer  edges  well  of  the  fins, 
wash  and  then  rub  the  fish  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Prepare  some  chopped 
onion  and  parsley  and  lay  in  a  deep 
baking  pan.  Place  a  layer  of  fish  eve/ 
this  and  then  a  layer  of  small  lumps  of 
butter  and  chci)ped  parsley  and  onion. 
Place  over  this  another  layer  of  fish. 
Cover  with  another  layer  of  chopped 
parsley,  onions  and  butter,  and  place  In 
the  oven  to  bake.  Bake  about  an  hour, 
basting  frequently,  and  serve  "with  a 
HoUandaise  sauce.  (See  recipe.) 
Baked  Gronper. 
Grouper  au  Gratin. 

A  Fine  Grouper   (weight  3  pounds). 
2  Dozen  Oysters.     2  Dozen  Boiled  Shrimp. 

1  Dozen  Boiled  Crawfish. 
2     Large     Onions.     2     Tablespoonfuls     of 
Butter. 
1  Cup  of  Stale  Bread. 
2    Large    Tomatoes.    1-2    Can    of    Mush- 
rooms. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 
2   Bav   Leaves.     6  Allspice.     3   Cloves. 

1   Bottle   of   W^hite   Wine. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  wash  the  Grouper  thorough- 
ly. Make  a  cut  in  the  shape  of  the  letter 
"S"  on  the  back  and  stuff  this  with  spice, 
thyme,  clove  and  bay  leaf,  chopped  fine, 
j.,.ub  thoroughly  inside  and  out  "with  salt 
and  pepper.  Make  a  good  stuffing  by 
taking  one  dozen  oysters,  one  cup  of 
stale  bread  crumbs,  wet  and  squeezel 
of  all  "water,  one  large  onion,  chopped 
fine,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  little  black  pepper.  Mix  well  and 
fry  in  a  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Stuff  the  body  of  the  fish  and 
sew  up  with  soft  thread.  Lard  well — 
that  is,  rub  thoroughly  with  lard — and 
place  in  the  oven.  Pour  over  imme 
-.iatel>'  a  bottle  c-f  white  wine,  and  let 
the  fish  bake  well  in  the  T\ine.  In  the 
meantime  prepare  the  following  sauce,  a 
la  Chambord:  Take  one  large  tablesixjon- 
ful  of  butter,  one  large  chopped  onion, 
one  sprig  of  thyme,  one  of  bay  leaf. 
Bro"wn  the  onions  and  butter,  being  care- 
ful not  to  burn,  and  put  in  three  large 
tomatoes;  add  the  chopped  herbs;  brown 
and  add  a  pint  of  oyster  water,  which 
has  been  heated  by  blanching  the  oysters. 
(Blanching  means  to  place  the  oysters 
on  the  fire  in  their  own  water  and  heat 
thoroughly  without  boiling.)  Season  th3 
sauce  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Have 
ready  in  another  dish  one  dozen  i>ar- 
boiled  or  blanched  oysters  and  two  dozen 
boiled  shrimp.  Put  the  fish  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  garnish  witb 


27 


the  oysters  and  shrimp,  placing  thoni 
over  the  fish,  and  mingle  between  about 
a  half  can  of  mushrooms.  Have  also 
ready  a  dozen  nicely  boiled  crawfish. 
Garnish  the  fish  with  these,  placing  them 
all  around  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
to  be  served.  Pour  the  sauce  over  all 
and  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  a  few  min- 
utes longer  and  serve  hot.  Where  econ- 
omy is  desired  Grouper  may  be  boiled 
or  baked  according  to  the  more  simple 
methods  given  above  for  cooking  Red 
Snapper.  (See  recipes  "Boiled  Red  SUap- 
per"  and  "Red  Snapper  au  Gratin.") 
FLOUNDER. 
Sole. 
The  Creoles  gave  to  the  Flounder,  one 
of  the  finest  fish  found  in  the  waters 
of  the  Mexican  Gulf,  the  French  name 
"Sole,"  because  while  the  fish  was  some- 
what different  in  size  and  shape,  they 
found  that  the  meat  of  the  Flounder  was 
Identically  the  same  as  that  of  the  "Sole" 
found  in  the  waters  of  the  Mediterranean 
sea.  Quick  to  discover  and  appreciate, 
they  applied  to  the  Flounder  the  name 
"Sole,"  and  adapted  it  to  the  French 
modes  of  cooking  the  latter  fish,  espe- 
cially applying  to  it  the  famous  old 
French  recipe  "Sole  a  la  Orly."  Other- 
wise in  New  Orleans  the  Flounder  is  al- 
ways either  fried  and  served  with  a 
sauce  "a  la  Tartare,"  or  baked  "a  la 
Nouvelle  Orleans,"  or  "a  la  Normande," 
or  served  with  a  white  wine  sauce  as  in 
Baked  Sheepshead.  (See  recipe  "Baked 
Sheepshead,"  or  "Casburgot  au  Gratin.") 

Flounder    a    la    Orly. 

Filets  de  Sole  a.  la   Orly. 

6  Filets  of  Flounder.      A  Cup  of  Milk. 

2     Tablespoonfuls     of     Butter. 

1  Egg.  Bread  Crumbs.   A  Tomato   Sauce. 

Parsley    to    Garnish. 

Have  the  fish  dealer  cut  the  Flounder 
in  filets  and  trim,  neatly  removing  all 
the  bones.  Beat  an  egg  with  milk,  and 
dip  in  the  slices  of  fish.  Roll  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  butter.  Serve  with 
parsley  garnish,  with  a  Tomato  Sauce. 
(See   recipe.) 

Flounders    a   la    Tartare. 

Soles    Frites    a    la    Tartare. 

3    Pounds    of    Flounders.      3    Eggs. 

10   Tablespoonfuls   of   Olive   Oil. 

A  Bunch  of  Parsley.  1  Sliced  Lemon. 

A    Sauce    a    la    Tartare. 

Clean  and  trim  the  Flounders.  Beat 
well  two  or  three  raw  eggs.  Have 
ready  a  frying  pan,  with  eight  or  ten 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil.  Place  over 
the  fire.  When  well  heated,  dip  the 
fish  into  the  eggs,  roll  well  and  place  in 
the  frying  pan.  Cook  for  about  five 
minutes,  turn  on  the  other  side,  and  cook 
about  the  same  period.  Then  drain  'by 
placing  on  a  heated  brown  paper.  Gar- 
nish a  dish  with  a  bed  of  fried  pars- 
ley, lay  the  Flounders  upon  it  and  gar- 
nish with  sliced  lemon.  Serve  with 
Sauce   a   la  Tartare.        (See   recipe.) 

Flounders  a  la  Nouvelle  Orleans. 

Sole  a  la  Nouvelle   Orleans. 

A    3-Pound    Flounder. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of   Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful    of    Butter.       6   Allspice. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

2  Sprigs    of    Parsley.    1    Sprig    of    Sweet 

Basil. 

1   Can    of   Mushrooms.     Croutons. 

Salt   and   Pepper   to   Taste. 

Select  a   fine,   fresh   Flounder,  parboil, 

by    scalding    well    after     it     has       been 


put  in  butter  and  salt,  and  set  to  bake 
in  an  oven.  When  it  is  two^hirda 
cooked,  take  off  and  pour  over  a  cream 
sauce  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  spice, 
thyme,  parsley,  sweet  basil  and  bay  leaf, 
a  can  of  mushrooms,  all  chopped  fine, 
and  cook  about  five  minutes.  After 
pouring  this  over  the  fish,  put  back  in 
cleansed.  Slit  open  in  scores  on  top  and 
the  oven  and  let  it  bake  till  done,  which 
will  be  in  about  fifteen  minutes.  Pre- 
pare Croutons,  or  crusts  of  bread  cut 
in  diamond  shape,  fry  these  in  butter  and 
use  as  a  garnish  for  the  fish. 

Flounder  a  la  Normande. 

Sole     a     la     Normande. 

A   3-Pound   Flounder.       8   Shallots. 

3  Bay  Leaves.      3  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 

1    Clove    of    Garlic. 

2     Tablespoonfuls     of     Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

2   Cups    of    Bouillon    or    Water. 

The      Yolks      of     2     Eggs.       1     Can      of 

Mushrooms. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A    Dash    of    Cayenne.      Croutons    Cut    iu 

Dice    Shape. 

Cut  open  the  Flounder  down  the  back. 
Dig  inside  under  bone  to  right  and  left, 
without  breaking  the  meat.  Chop  the 
bay  leaves,  thyme  and  clove  of  garlic 
very,  very  fine  and  mix  with  a  half 
teaspoonful  salt  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  Cayenne.  Rub  the  Flounder  all  over 
on  the  inside  and  under  the  cutting  and 
outside  with  this  preparation,  seasoning 
thoroughly.  Chop  the  shallots,  green  and 
white,  very  fine.  Put  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  flat  saucepan  or  stew- 
ing dish,  and  put  the  shallots  with  the 
butter.  Lay  the  Flounder  on  top  of 
the  shallots  and  butter,  and  let  it  cook 
slowly  on  a  slow  fire  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Then  turn  on  the  other  side 
and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  In  the 
meantime  take  another  saucepan  and 
put  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  two  of  flour.  Dissolve  this  imme- 
diately with  two  cups  of  bouillon  or 
water  so  that  the  sauce  will  be  white. 
Let  it  cook  about  five  minutes,  and 
then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  one  can  of  mushrooms.  Let 
all  cook  ten  minutes  longer,  and  then 
take  the  Flounder  out  of  the  saucepan 
in  which  it  has  been  cooking  and  lay  on 
a  flat  silver  dish;  then  mix  the  sauce 
in  which  it  has  been  cooking  with  the 
mushroom  sauce.  Taste  the  sauce  and 
add  salt,  pepper  and  Cayenne,  according 
to  taste.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the  fish, 
around  which  you  will  have  placed  Crou- 
tons cut  as  dice  and  fried  in  the  dish, 
and  then  cover  the  fish  and  put  it  in  the 
bake  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  hot 
in  the  dish  in  which   it  was  baked. 

Baked    Flounder. 

Sole    au    Gratin. 

A    3-Pound    Flounder.      1    Large    Onion. 

2    Tablespoons    of    Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1  Bay   Leaf.  1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

3    Sprigs    of    Parsley. 

1-2    Bottle    of    WTiite    W^ine         6    Fresh 

Tomatoes. 

2    Dozen    liake    Shrimp. 

1  Dozen  Oysters.  1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

2  Crackers.  Dry  Toast  Cut  in  Dice  Shape. 
Clean   and   wash   the   fish;    place   on   a 

platter;  chop  one  large  onion  fine, 
rub  the  fish  first  with  salt  and  black 
pepper,     then     take     a     large     and     deep 


28 


kitchen  pan,  place  within  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  the  chopped  onion,  bay  leaf 
and  thyme.  Place  the  fish  on  top  of 
this  and  pour  over  a  half  bottle  of  white 
wine.  Cover  with  another  close  pan 
and  put  the  whole  on  top  of  the  oven 
(not  on  the  inside).  Bake  from  the  bot- 
tom. When  it  begins  to  boil  from  be- 
low, turn  the  fish  over  carefully  with- 
out breaking,  and  let  it  bake  on  the 
other  side.  Take  a  saucepan  and  put 
within  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour.  Let  it  brown  without  burn- 
ing, and  then  add  six  fresh  tomatoes, 
skinned  and  chopped  fine,  or  a  half  can. 
Add  two  dozen  Lake  Shrimp  that  have 
been  cleaned  well  and  scalded,  a  half 
can  of  mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Let  all  cook  for  about  five  min- 
utes and  then  water  with  the  gravy  in 
which  the  fish  is  cooking.  Mix  well  and 
cover  the  fish  with  it.  Parboil  one  doz- 
en oysters,  and  when  the  fish  is  cooked, 
set  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  Is  to  be 
served  and  place  the  oysters  all  around 
it  on  small  slices  of  dry  toast.  Cover 
the  fish  alternately  with  the  shrimp  and 
oysters,  as  a  garnish  over  and  around  it. 
Mash  two  crackers  into  crumbs  and 
sprinkle  over  it;  also  some  finely-chopped 
parsley.  Place  small  bits  of  butter  al- 
ternately over  the  fish;  set  the  dish  in 
the  oven,  and  bake  with  a  quick  fire 
until    brown.      Serve    immediately. 

POMPANO. 

Pompano  is  the  crowning  glory  of  the 
fish  of  the  New  Orleans  market.  It  i."! 
peculiar  to  the  waters  of  the  Gulf  of 
Mexico,  Mississippi  Sotmd  and  the  Louisi- 
ana Grand  Isle  shore.  The  word  Pom- 
pano is  derived  from  the  Spanish  "Pam- 
pano,"  signifying  a  peculiar  greenish - 
tinted  plant,  and  the  name  "Pompano ' 
was  given  to  the  fish  by  the  early  Span- 
ish fishermen  on  account  of  the  deli- 
cate greenish  color  which  distinguishes 
it.  Nothing  to  be  compared  with  the 
Pompano  exists  in  the  Northern,  Eastern 
or  "Western  waters,  and  no  stranger 
leaves  New  Orleans  without  having  tast 
ed  once  of  this  delightful  fish.  The 
New  Orleans  Pompano  has  a  world-wide 
fame.  The  Pompano  used  to  come  in  the 
early  spring  and  remain  but  a  few 
weeks,  hence  the  first  fish  that  appeared 
in  the  French  Market  were  eagerly 
sought  after  as  a  great  luxury.  Pom- 
pano are  more  plentiful  now  and  are 
to  be  found  in  the  market  almost  all 
the  year   round. 

Pompano    a   la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

A     Fine     Pompano,     or     Small     Ones     in 
Weight  to  Equal  Three  Pounds. 
A  Tablespoonful  of  Olive  Oil. 
A    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 
The    Juice    of   1    Lemon. 
A  Sliced  Lemon.  Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Sauce   a   la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 
There   is   only   one   way   to    cook    Pom- 
pano   and   that    is    to    broil    it   and    serve 
with    a    Sauce   a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

To  broil  the  Pompano  split  the  fish 
in  the  middle  of  the  back  if  the  fish  i.^ 
large;  if  small,  hrnil  whole.  Season 
well  by  rubbing  with  salt  and  pepper, 
mixed  with  a  little  sweet  oil.  Put  the 
Pompano  on  the  broiler  and  see  that  it 
is  browned  ivell  on  both  sides,  using  al- 
ways the  double  wire  broiler.  Wlien 
done,  place  in  a  heated  dish  (heat 
by  placing  in  a  bain-marie  or  hot  water 
bath  and  dry  thoroughly).  Butter  the 
fish    nicely    and    squeeze    the    juice    of    a 


lemon  over  it.  Garnish  with  parsley 
and  sliced  lemon,  and  serve  with  a  Sauce 
a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel.  (See  recipe.)  Tou 
will  have  a  dish  that  a.  king  might  envy 

SPANISH    MACKBBEL. 

Maquereau  Espagnol. 
Spanish  Mackerel  is  another  delicate 
and  delicious  fish,  only  to  be  found  in 
the  waters  of  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.  The 
Gulf  of  Mexico  was,  in  early  Creole 
days,  a  part  of  the  vast  expanse  known 
as  "The  W^aters  of  the  Spanish  Main." 
The  early  Spanish  fishermen  found  here 
a  fish  resembling  the  mackerel,  but  of  a 
dainty  delicacy  of  flavor  far  superior  to 
any  mackerel  yet  known  to  epicures,  and 
they  gave  to  it  the  name  "Spanish  Mack- 
erel." It  stands  on  an  equal  footing 
with  the  Pompano  in  the  estimation  of 
epicures.  The  Spanish  Mackerel  should 
always  be  broiled.  It  is  a  splendid 
breakfast  dish  and  a  famous  entree 
at    dinners. 

Broiled    Spanish    Jfackerel. 

Maquereau   Espagnol   Grillee. 

A  Spanish  Mackerel,  of  3  Pounds  "Weight. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Olive    Oil. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

The  Juice  of  1   Lemon.     1  Sliced  Lemon. 

Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
Pompano,  serving  w^hole.  "Where  the  fish 
is  large,  split  downwards,  in  the  middle 
of  the  back,  and  broil  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  the  Pompano,  and  place  on  a  dish 
garnished  "with  parsley  and  slices  of 
lemon.  Serve  with  a  Sauce  a  la  Maitra 
d'Hotel.  (See  recipe.)  These  are  special 
recipes,  used  only  in  broiling  Pompano 
and  Spanish  Mackerel. 

BLUEFISH. 

Le  Poisson   Bleu. 

A   Fine  Bluefish,  or  Fish  in  Quantity  to 

Equal   3   Pounds. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Olive   Oil. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Sliced  Lemon.     The  Juice   of  1  Lemon. 

Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

The  Bluefish  is  a  splendid  fish  of  the 
salt-water  variety,  and  much  sought 
after.  It  should  always  be  broiled.  Split 
the  fish  in  the  middle  of  the  back  if 
the  fish  is  large;  if  small,  broil  whole. 
Season  well  by  rubbing  with  salt  anil 
pepper,  mixed  with  a  little  sweet  oil. 
Put  the  Pompano  on  the  broiler  and  see 
that  it  is  browned  well  on  both  sides, 
using  always  the  double  wire  broiler. 
When  done,  place  in  a  heated  dish  (heal 
by  placing  in  a  bain  marie  or  hot-water 
bath  and  dry  thoroughly.)  Butter  the  fish 
nicely  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
over  it.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced 
lemon,  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  a  la 
Maitre  d'Hctel.  (See  recipe.) 
TROUT. 
De   la   Trulte. 

Of  fine  and  delicate  flavor,  the  Green 
Trout  and  Speckled  Trout  are  great 
favorites  in  the  New  Orleans  cuisines. 
Trout  is  especially  recommended  as  * 
breakCast  dish,  nothing  being  more  ap- 
petizing than  this  for  a  morning  portion. 
It  may  be  broiled  or  boiled.  Tenderloin 
Trout  cut  into  filets,  or  cutlets,  is  also 
fried  and  makes  a  most  palatable  dish. 
We  have  the  Salt-Water  TrO'Ut  and  the 
Fresh-Water  Trout,  and  both  are  excel- 
lent. 


29 


Boiled    Green    Trout. 

Truite   Verte   Bouillie. 

6  Medium-Sized   Trout,  or  3  Large  Onegi. 
A  Kettle  of  Boiling  Water.     1  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme.     1  Sprig  of  Onion. 

A  Clove  O'f  Garlic  (if  desired).     10  Cloves. 

2   Dozen   Allspice. 

A  Seedless   Red   Pepper   Pod. 

A  Bit  of  Lemon  Peel. 

Parsley   and    Lemon   to    Garnish. 

Select  fine  fresh  Trout.  Clean  an! 
wash  the  fish  thoroughly.  Make  a  small 
letter  "S"  with  knife  on  the  back;  pa-ss 
twine  around  the  body  of  the  fish  so  as 
to  secure  it.  Never  wrap  or  tie  in  a 
cloth.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  bc-iling 
water  and  throw  in  a  sprig  of  onion, 
thyme  and  bay  leaf,  eight  or  ten  cloves, 
about  two  dozen  allspice,  all  mashed 
fine;  a  bit  of  lemon  peel  and  a  red  pepper 
pod.  When  the  water  has  boiled  loufcj 
enough  to  have  extracted  the  flavor  cf 
these  ingredients,  drop  the  fish  in  care- 
fully, so  as  to  avoid  breaking.  Let  it 
boil  about  ten  minutes  and  then  take 
out  carefully.  Put  into  a  strainer  and 
drain  quickly.  Place  on  a  platter  on  a 
bed  of  parsley,  with  chopped  parsley 
thrown  over,  and  garnish  with  parslev 
and  sliced  lemon.  Serve  with  a  drawn- 
butter  iHollandaise  Sauce  o-r  Sauce  Geno- 
ise.  (See  recipe.)  If  the  flavor  of  the 
spices  is  not  desired  the  fish  may  bo 
boiled  simply  in  the  salt  and  pepper  wa- 
ter,  with   sprigs   of  parsley. 

The  Creoles  add  a  clove  of  garlic  to 
the  boiling  water,  but  this  is  according 
to  taste. 

Broiled    Green    Trout. 
Truite    Verte    Grillee. 

6  Medium-Sized  Trout,  or  3  Large  Ones. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter.     Juice    of    1 

Lemon. 
1  Sliced   Lemon  and  Parsley  to   Garnish. 

Follow  implicitly  the  directions  given 
under  the  heading  "General  Rule  for 
Broiling  Fish."  (See  recipe.)  Clean  the 
fish  without  cutting  off  the  head  or  tail. 
Broil  whole  over  a  clear,  moderate  fire. 
Before  placing  on  the  broiler  rub  the  fish 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  mixed  in  a 
little  sweet  oil  cr  a  little  butter  oil.  It 
the  fish  is  small,  broil  on  a  quick,  clear 
fire;  if  large,  as  mentioned  above,  the 
fire  must  be  moderate,  or  the  outside  ol 
the  fish  will  be  charred  before  the  in- 
side is  done.  When  the  fish  is  done 
through  and  through,  which  can  easily 
be  determined  by  the  flesh  parting  easi'.y 
from  the  bone,  remove  the  gridiron  from 
the  fire  and  Ibosen  the  fish  from  the 
broiler  with  a  knife,  'being  careful  not  to 
break  the  flesh.  Then  place  the  hot  dish 
over  the  fish,  and,  with  a  dexterous 
movement,  turn  the  two  back  again,  thus 
separating  the  gridiron  from  the  fish  and 
placing  the  latter  in  the  dish.  Butter 
well,  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
if  deemed  necessary,  and  pour  over  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  lemon 
juice.  Serve  with  garnishes  of  parsley 
and  sliced   lemon. 

Speckled  Trout. 
Truites    Grillees. 

6    Filets    of    Speckled    Trout. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
Parsley  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Garnish. 
The  Speckled  Trout  is  usually  served 
in  tenderloin  steaks  or  filets.  Skin  and 
cut  the  fish,  after  cleaning,  into  filets 
or  square  pieces,  slicing  across  tie  back. 
Remove  all  the  bones  and  rub  well  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  sweet  oil 
mixed    with    the    pepper    and    salt.     Place 


on  the  gridiro-n  or  double  broiler  and 
broil  carefully,  turning  the  broiler  fre- 
quently to  prevent  the  fish  being  charred 
before  it  is  done.  When  nicely  browned, 
place  on  a  bed  of  parsley  and  garnish 
with  sliced  lemon.  Serve  with  Sauce  a 
la   Tartare.     (See  recipe.) 

Tried    Speckled   Trout. 

Truite    Frite. 

6  Filets  of  Speckled  Trout. 

The  Yolks  of  2  Eggs.     1  Cup  of  Milk. 

1  Onion.     4  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

2  Gills  of  Mustard. 

1-2  Pint  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Parsley    and    Sliced    Lemion    to    Garnish. 

Skin  the  fish  and  clean  thoroughly. 
Then  cut  the  Trout  into  filets  or  steaks. 
Take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  little 
milk  and  beat  together.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  and  soak  the  Trout  well  in  this, 
rolling  over  and  over.  Then  take  it  out 
of  the  pan  and  roll  in  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs.  Pat  the  fish  a  little  all  over 
with  your  hands  and  then  fry  in  the 
same  manner  as  Croakers.  S'erve  on  a 
bed  of  fried  parsley,  with  garnish  of 
sliced  lemon,  with  the  following  Sauce 
a  la  Tartare:  Take  one  large  onion  and 
four  or  five  sprigs  of  parsley  and  chop 
fine.  Squeeze  the  juice  out  well  and  par- 
boil, chopping  fine  and  squeezing  out 
the  water.  Prepare  about  one-half  pint 
of  Mayonnaise  Dressing  (see  recipe)  and 
add  about  two  gills  of  mustard.  Mix 
well  and  add  to  the  parsley  and  onion 
and  juices.  Serve  the  sauce  cold. 
Cutlets  of  Fisb. 
Filets  de  Poisson. 
6  Tenderloin  Trout  Cutlets.  1  Cup  of 
Milk. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Parsley  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Garnish. 
A  Mayonnaise  Sauce,  or  Sauce  a  la  Tar- 
tare. 

Cut  the  fish  (Tenderloin  Trout)  into 
filets  or  square  pieces;  remove  all  the 
bones,  dip  in  milk  which  has  been  freely 
salted  and  peppered,  and  roll  in  flour; 
drop  into  the  well-heated  lard  so  that  the 
filets  will  swim  and  fry  to  a  golden 
brown.  When  done,  drain  on  a  brown 
paper  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  fried  pars- 
ley, with  garnishes  of  parsley  and  sliced 
lemon.  W^ith  these  cutlets  serve  either 
a  Mayonnaise  Sauce,  a  Sauce  a  la  Tar- 
tare or  a  Tomato  Sauce,  preferably  either 
of  the  former.     (See  recipes  for  sauces.) 

PERCH. 

De  la   Perche. 
The  Perch  is  a  fresh-water  fish  of  de- 
lightful    flavor.     It     should     always     be 
boiled  or  broiled. 

Boiled    Perch. 
Perche  Bouille. 

6  Fine  Fresh  Perch.    1  Bay  Leaf. 
1  Sprig  of  Thyme.     1  Sprig  of  Onion. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic   (if  desired).    10  Cloves. 

2  Dozen  Allspice.    A  Bit  of  Lemon  Peel. 
1  Red  Pepper  Pod,  Without  the  S'eed. 

Parsley  and  Lemon  to  Garnish. 
Select  fine,  fresh  Perch.  Clean  and 
wash  the  fish  well.  Make  a  small  letter 
"S"  with  a  knife  on  the  back.  Pass  a 
piece  of  twine  arc'und  the  body,  so  as  to 
secure  it.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  and  throw  in  a  sprig  of  onion, 
thyme  and  bay  leaf,  the  cloves  and  all- 
spice, mashed  fine,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel 
and  the  red  pepper  pod.  When  the  water 
has  boiled  long  enough  to  have  fully 
extracted  the  flavor  of  these  ingredient.3, 
drop  the  fish  in  carefully,  so  as  to  avoid 


30 


breaking.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  and 
then  take  out  carefully  and  drain  quick- 
ly in  a  strainer.  Place  in  a  dish  on  a  bed 
of  parsley,  sprinkle  chopped  parsley  over 
it  and  garnish  prettily  with  parsley  and 
sliced  lemon.  The  spices  may  be  omitted 
If  the  flavor  is  not  agreeable  to  some, 
and  the  Perch  may  be  simply  boiled  in 
the  salt  and  pepper  water  with  the  sprigs 
of  parsley  thrown  in.  Serve  ^vith  a 
Drawn-Butter  Sauce  or  Sauce  Genoise, 
(See  recipes.) 

Broiled    Perch. 
Perche  Grillee. 
6  Fine  Perch.  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
The  Juice  of  1  Liemon. 
1  Sliced   Lemon.     Parsley  to  Garnish, 
Proceed  in  the  same  manner  indicated 
under    the    heading    "General    Rules    for 
Broiling    Fish."     (See    recipe.)     If    large, 
split    the    fish    down   the    middle    of    the 
back,   else   broil   whole.     Serve   with   gar- 
nishes   c^    parsley    and    sliced    lemon.    A 
row   of   radishes   nicely   dressed    is    often 
added  to  the  garnish  when  it  is  made  of 
lettuce    leaves,     and     sliced,     hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Croakers. 
Des  Grognards. 
12  Small  or  Six  Large  Croakers. 
1  Pint  of  Milk. 
Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 
Parsley  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Garnish. 
Croakers   are  a   famous  breakfast  fish. 
They    are    most     delicious      when      fried. 
To    fry    Croaker    properly    fill    a    small 
pan    with    milk,    and    add    salt    and    pep- 
per to   taste.       Boil   the  Croakers    in  the 
milk  and  then  take  out  and  roll   in  dry, 
sifted    flour.        Have    ready    a     pan     ol' 
grease    that    has    been    heated    very    hot 
without    boiling.        Drop    in    the    Croak- 
ers and  cook  till  brown.       The  fish  must 
swim   in  the  grease.       Lift  carefully   out 
of   the   frying    pan   and    serve    on    a    bed 
of  fried  parsley,  with  garnishes  of  sliced 
lemon. 

Sacalait-Patassas. 
These  are  delightfully  flavored  fish 
of  the  small  variety  found  in  the  Louisi- 
ana waters.  They  are  excellent  either 
fried,  as  in  recipe  for  Croakers,  or  broiled 
whole. 

Fish  Balls. 

Boulettes    de    Poisson.  ' 

The  Remains  of  Any  Fish.  1  Large  Onion. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme.  3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

I    Egg.  Bread    Crumbs. 

A    Dash    of    Cayenne. 

Take   the   remains   of  any   fish,    season 

well  with  chopped  parsley,  onions,  thyme 

and    Cayenne,    and    a   touch    of    garlic    if 

the  flavor  is  liked.      Then  mince  all  well, 

adding  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  mix 

with    one-third     bread     crumbs,     mashed 

well.       Beat    the    yolk    and    white    of    an 

egg    and    roll    the    balls,    shaped    in    the 

form  of  a  cake,  in  this.       Pat  with  bread 

crumbs      and    fry    in    butter    to    a    pa.e 

brown. 

Fish   Chowder. 
Melee   Creole. 
2  Pounds  of  Fresh  Fish,  Preferably  Red- 
fish     or    Sheepshead. 
S    Medium-Sized    Potatoes.  1    Onion 

1   Clove   of   Garlic. 
S    Sprigs    Bach    of    Thyme,    Parsley    and 

Bay  Leaf. 
1-2  Can  of  Tomatoes.       1-2  Cup  of  Milk 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  TVater. 

2  Ounces  of  Salt  Pork  or  Ham   Chopped 

Very    Fine 

Grated  Oyster  Crackers. 

Salt,  Cayenne  and  Black  Pepper  to  Taste 


Cut  two  pounds  of  fresh  fish  of  any 
kind,  preferably  the  Redfish  or  Sheeps- 
head. Take  three  medium-sized  pota- 
toes and  one  onion  and  cut  into  slices. 
Take  two  ounces  of  salt  pork,'  wash  well 
and  chop  very  fine.  Put  the  pork  into 
"a  frying  pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  add 
the  sliced  onion.  Smother  slightly,  and 
add  chopped  thyme,  parsley,  bay  leaf, 
one  clove  of  garlic,  very  fine,  and  Cay- 
enne and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Let 
this  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes  long- 
er. Pour  over  this  one  quart  of  boiling 
water,  and  add  fish  and  half  a  can  of 
tomatoes  and  the  potatoes.  Season  to 
taste,  and  cover  the  pan  and  let  the  con- 
tents simmer  for  half  an  hour.  A  halt 
cup  of  milk  may  be  added,  if  desired. 
Take  oyster  crackers,  place  in  a  bowl 
and  pour  the  chowder  over  and  serve 
hot. 

Ijonisiana    Eels. 


De  I'Anguille. 

Few  of  the  American  residents  of  New 
Orleans  know  the  possibilities  of  pre- 
paring a  most  delightful  dish  that  lurks 
in  the  often-rejected  eel.  But  the  an- 
cient Creoles  inherited  the  taste  of  their 
French  ancestors,  who  considered  eels  a 
delicacy,  and  have  evolved  from  the  tra- 
ditional recipes  of  old  France  pleasing 
and  various  ways  of  serving  this  fish. 
The  most  generally  used  in  households 
is  called 

Eels   en   Matelote. 

Or,  More  Familiarly,  Matelote  d'Anguille. 

2  Pounds  of  Eel,  or  a  2-Pound  Fish. 
1    Large    Onion. 
Pint  of  Button  Onions.  1  Clove  of  Garlic. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour. 
1  Glass  of  Good  Claret.  1  Can  of  Mush- 
rooms. 
1   Pint   of    Oyster   Water. 
1    Bay    Leaf.       1   Sprig   of   Thyme. 
Croutons  to    Garnish. 

Matelote  d'Anguille  is  a  famous  old 
Creole  dish.  The  following  Is  the  old 
Creole  recipe,  and  when  once  eaten  aft- 
er this  mode  of  preparation,  there  is 
seldom  a  refusal  to  give  the  eel  its  due 
credit  as  a  dish  fit  for  the  most  fas- 
tidious gourmet.  It  should  always  be 
remembered  that  the  largest  eels  are 
not  the  best  for  eating.  The  Creoles  al- 
ways reject  those  taken  from  the  river, 
near  the  wharves.  The  eels  found  in 
the  bay  and  lakes  are  the  most  re- 
cherche. 

Clean  and  skin  the  eel,  using  about 
two  pounds.  Cut  in  one  inch  or  two- 
inch  pieces,  as  desired.  Take  one  large 
onion  and  a  half  pint  of  button  onions, 
or  a  clove  or  garlic,  and  chop  fine.  Make 
a  roux  with  one  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
adding,  when  hot,  the  chopped  onions 
and  parsley,  and  gradually  adding,  when 
these  begin  to  brown,  the  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  flour.  Pour  In  one  good 
glass  of  Claret  and  a  can  of  mushrooms. 
Add  a  pint  of  oyster  stock  or  oyster 
water,  and  let  cook  a  while.  Season 
to  taste  with  Cayenne  and  salt,  adding 
^^%  tV^  '**/  *?^  thyme.  When  it  boils, 
add  the  eels  that  have  been  thoroughly 
cleansed  and  placed  in  cool  water  and 
aUowed  to  stand  about  fifteen  minutes. 
When  these  are  added  to  the  matelote,  let 
It  simmer  about  an  hour.  Serve  with 
fancy   garnish    of   Croutons 


31 


Fried  Eels. 

AnguiUes    Frites. 
A  2-Pound  Bel.  2  Eggs. 

Mashed  Bread  Crumbs. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  skin  the  eel  and  place  in 
boiling  water  and  vinegar  till  thoroughly 
disgorged.  Cut  into  lengths  of  two 
inches.  Wipe  dry  with  a  clean  towel. 
Beat  two  eggs  well  and  add  mashed 
bread  crumbs.  Roll  the  eel  well  in  this 
preparation  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  follow- 
ing implicitly  the  directions  given  ror 
-frying,  and  remembering  that  the  fish 
must  always  swim  in  the  grease.  Drain 
off  all  grease  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  pars- 
ley. 

Broiled    Eels. 

Anguilles  Grillees. 

2  Pounds  of  Eel.       1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Black  Pepper. 

1-2   Teaspoonful   of   Salt. 

A    Drawn    Butter    Sauce    or    Sauce    a    la 

Tartare. 

Clean  and  skin  the  eel  as  for  frying. 
Cut  in  two-inch  pieces  and  boil  till  dis- 
gorged. Then  roll  in  oil  and  pepper 
and  salt.  Mix  well  and  broil  quickly 
over  a  clear  fire.  Serve  with  melted  or 
Drawn  Butter  Sauce  and  pickles,  or  a 
Sauce   a   la   Tartare. 

Eels   a  la   M^itre   d'Hotel. 

Anguilles     a    la    Maitre     d'Hotel. 

2  Pounds  of  Eel.  1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1  Bay  Leaf.  6  Cloves.     1  Dozen  Allspice. 

1  Onion  Chopped  Fine.  1  Clove  of  Garlic 

A   Sauce  a  la   Tartare. 

A  Half  Cup  of  Lemon  or  Citron  Juice. 

Fried   Potato   Balls. 

Cut  and  clean  the  eel  as  directed  and 
boil  about  twenty  minutes  in  salt  and 
water,  putting  a  great  quantity  of  salt 
into  the  kettle,  and  adding  the  thyme, 
bay  leaf,  cloves,  allspice,  chopped  onion, 
garlic  and  a  glass  of  Claret.  Remove 
the  eels  after  cooking  twenty  minutes 
and  serve  on  a  dish  garnished  w^ith  pars- 
ley and  fried  potato  balls.  Serve  with 
a  Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel  (see  recipe), 
only  be  carefu^l  to  add  about  a  half  cup 
of  citron  or  lemon  juice  to  the  sauce. 

Eels  a  la  Poulette. 

Anguilles    a    la    Poulette. 

2  Pounds  of  Eel.     1  Cup  of  Hot  Vinegar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Can    of    Mushrooms. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour. 

1  Glass  of  White  Wine. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme.  1  Sprig  of  Sweet  Basil. 

2    Sprigs    of    Parsley. 

1    Onion    Minced   Very   Fine. 

The  Tolks  of  3  Eggs.    Juice  of  2  Lemons. 

A  Dash  of  Cayenne,   Salt  and  Pepper  to 

Taste. 

Croutons  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Garnish. 

Clean  and  skin  the  eels  and  put  in  a 
pot  of  boiling  water.  To  be  sure  that 
they  disgorge  thoroughly  add  a  cup  of 
hot  vinegar.  After  boiling  fifteen  min- 
utes, take  them  out  and  cut  into  three^ 
inch  pieces.  Take  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  put  into  a  frying  pan,  and  add 
the  eels  and  one  can  of  mushrooms 
poured  over.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  rubbed  smoothly  in  butter  as  the 
eels  begin  to  fry.  Pour  over,  when  this 
begins  to  grown,  a  glassful  of  white 
wine,  and  add  parsley,  thyme,  bay  leaf, 
sweet  basil,  and  an  onion  minced  like 
the  herbs,  very  fine.  As  the  grease  rises, 
floating,   skim   it  off.       Add   a  little   Ca- 


yenne, and  salt  to  taste,  if  necessary. 
When  quite  done,  take  the  volks  of  three 
eggs  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  juice 
of  two  lemons.  Take  the  eels  off  the 
fire  and  add  the  lemon  juice  and  eggs 
and  be  careful  not  to  set  back  on  the 
fire  when  once  these  are  added,  or  the 
eggs  will  curdle.  Place  on  a  dish  and 
garnish  with  Croutons  and  slices  of 
lemon   and   serve   hot. 

Stingaree. 

De  la  Raie. 

The  Stingaree  is  a  fish  that  the  Ameri- 
cans laugh  at,  not  dreaming  of  the  pos- 
sibilities for  a  delicate  dish  that  lurks 
within  its  wings.  The  Creoles,  following 
in  the  wake  of  their  French  ancestors, 
who  ate  the  Stingaree  found  in  the  wa- 
ters of  the  Mediterranean,  have  evolved 
a  different  dish  from  the  old  French 
cuisinieres,  but  one  that  holds  its  own 
even  among  the  many  distinguished 
French  critics  and  gourmets  who  have 
visited  our  shores.  It  is  called  Raie 
au    Beurre    Noir. 

Stingaree    au    Beurre    Noir. 

Raie   au   Beurre   Noir. 

A    Fine  Young   Stingaree. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 

A  Handful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

The    Juice    of   1    Lemon,    or    1    Spoon    of 

French   Vinegar. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

Take  a  fine  young  Stingaree  and  cut 
off  the  tail.  Cut  the  wings  from  the 
body  and  throw  away  the  rest  of  the 
fish.  Throw  the  wings  into  boiling  wa- 
ter and  parboil  them.  When  boiled  ten 
minutes,  take  them  off  the  water  and 
then  take  all  the  skin  off.  The  flesh 
will  then  become  as  white  as  snow.  Put 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying 
pan  and  let  it  brown  without  burning. 
When  a  nice  coffee  color,  add  a  handful 
of  chopped  parsley  and  let  it  brown  for 
a  half  minute.  Then  add  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  or  a  spoonful  of  French  vine- 
gar. Pour  this  over  the  fish,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  hot.  This 
is  a  dish  much  affected  by  Creole  con- 
noisseurs. 

Fried    Stingaree. 

Raie  Frite. 

A  Fine   Toung  Stingaree. 

A  Pint  of  French  Vinegar. 

A  Handful  of  Parsley  Minced  Very  Fine. 

A     Teaspoonful      of     Salt.       Parsley     to 

Garnish. 

A  Sauce  Poivrade. 

Prepare  the  Stingaree  wings  as  directed 
in  the  above  recipe.  Cut  it  into  square 
pieces  of  about  three  inches,  and  let  thesfe 
soak  in  the  vinegar  which  has  been 
charged  with  the  salt  and  minced  par,^- 
ley.  Then  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Drain  and  serve 
on  a  bed  of  fried  parsley,  with  a  Sauce 
a  la  Poivrade.     (See  recipe.) 

Stingaree    With    Caper    Sauce. 

Raie    Sauce    aux    Capres. 

A  Fine  Young  Stingaree.     A  Caper  Sauce. 

Salt   and   Boiling   Water. 

Cut  off  the  tail  of  the  Stingaree.  Cut 
off  the  wings,  and  throw  the  rest  of  the 
fish  away.  Throw  the  wings  into  boiling 
water  charged  with  salt,  and  parboil 
them  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Then 
take  them  out  of  the  water  and  skin 
thoroughly.  Place  in  a  heated  dish  and 
pour  over  a  Caper  Sauce.     (See  recii>e.) 


32 


Stingrarettes. 

Raitons, 
This  name  is  given  to  the  little  Stin- 
garees.  They  are  prepared  just  like  the 
larger  ones,  the  wings  only  being  userl. 
These  are  soaked  in  vinegar  and  a  little 
'  salt,  and  then  fried,  after  being  rolled  in 
bread  crumbs  and  'beaten  egg.  Place  on 
a  bed  of  fried  parsley  and  serve. 

Roi;. 

Oeufs   de  Poisson. 

1  Dozen  Roe.  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

The  Juice  of  a  Lemon. 

Lemon    Sliced    in    Quarters. 

Fish  eggs  are  a  great  delicacy  for  tha 
reason  that  it  is  not  often  that  sufficient 
can  be  bought  to  supply  a  dinner  or 
breakfast  table.  The  only  eggs  of  fish 
that  are  used  as  an  epicurean  dish  in 
New  Orleans  are  the  Roe  of  the  Green 
Trout.  These  are  exceedingly  fine  and 
delicate  and  are  prepared  after  the  fol 
lowing  manner;  First  wash  the  eggs  well 
and  cut  out  fibers;  butter  a  silver  dish, 
or,  if  you  have  not  one,  a  nice  agate, 
and  lay  the  Roe  in  the  dish.  Split  them 
open,  if  large,  and  put  a  dot  of  butter 
o-n  top  of  each.  Sprinkle  nicely  with 
salt  and  pepper;  place  in  the  oven,  baks 
a  few  minutes,  and  serve  hot  with  lemon 
juice. 

Roe  are  also  used  to  garnish  a  dish  of 
fish  whenever  the  eggs  can  be  obtained 
in  sufficient  quantity. 

FBOGS. 
Des    Grenouilles. 

Like  their  French  ancestors.  Frog  legs 
are  highly  prized  as  a  delicacy  by  the 
ancient  Creoles.  Properly  cooked,  they 
are  much  -more  delicate  than  chicken 
and  a  great  dish  at  recherche  dinners.  Tt 
must  be  remembered  that  only  the  hind 
legs  of  the  froers  are  used,  which  must 
be  first  skinned  and  then  thrown  into 
boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Then 
take  them  out  and  put  in  cold  water. 
When  cold,  take  out  of  the  water,  and 
wipe  dry  with  a  clean  towel.  They  are 
now  ready  for  cooking. 

Frogs    a    la    Creole. 

A  Half  Dozen   Frogs. 
3  Eggs.    A  Cup  of  Sifted  Bread  Crumbs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 
2  <Jills   of  Milk  or  Fresh    Cream. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of   Salt. 
1-2  of  an  Onion  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Take  a  half  dozen  Frogs,  the  more 
delicate  the  better.  Cut  off  the  hind  legs 
and  skin.  Scald  the  legs  abO'Ut  four 
minutes  in  boiling  water,  adding  sait 
and  lemon  juice  to  the  water.  Then  take 
out  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs, 
and  mix  in  bread  crumbs  sifted.  Have 
ready  a  pot  of  heated  lard.  Rub  the 
Frog  legs  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
put  into  the  pot  of  hot  lard.  Let  them 
fry  to  a  nice  golden  brown.  Then  make 
a  sauce  as  follows:  Take  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  one  very  large  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  two  gills  of  fresh  milk  or 
cream,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire.  As  soon  as  it  melts  add  the  flour, 
which  has  been  rubbed  smoothly.  Stir 
in  gradually,  and  when  blended,  add  by 
degrees  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  prevent  burning.  Then  take 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a 
ualf  of  a  chopped  onion  that  has  been 
well  grated.  Have  ready  two  fresh  egg-:;, 
beaten  in  a  bowl.     Warm  the  Frogs'  legs 


in  the  sauce,  and  when  it  begins  to  smi- 
mer  stir  the  sauce  briskly    nto  the  eggs. 
Return  to  the  back  of  the  stove  a  minute 
or  two,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  sauce 
boil  after  the  eggs  have  been  added,  else 
they  will  curdle  the  sauce.     Serve  hot. 
Froes    »   1»   Poulette. 
Grenouilles   a  la  Poulette. 
6   Frog    Legs. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
1-2    Can    of    Mushrooms.    1    Tablespoon 
Flour. 
1  Lemon.     Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Clean  and  skin  the  Frogs'  legs  and  cut 
them  in  small  pieces  of  about  an  inch  in 
size.     Have  ready  a  stew  pot  and  put  in 
the  Frogs'  legs,  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  half  a  lemon  cut  fine.    Cover 
well   with  water  and  let  it   cook  till  the 
meat  is  tender.     When  cooked,  drain  and 
put  the  meat  aside  and  make  a  sauce  as 
follows:     "Take  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, two  spoonfjils  of  flour;  rub  the  flour 
smoothly   and    put   in    a   sauce   pan   with 
the    butter    to    melt.    Add    two    cups    of 
water  and   stir  well.     When  it  begins  to 
boil  well,  add  a  half  can  of  mushrooms. 
Season    with    salt     and     Cayenne.    Then 
add    the    Frogs;    season    again    to   taste, 
and   let  this  boil  ten   minutes.     Beat  the 
yolks    of    two    raw    eggs    well,    take    the 
Frogs   off  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks 
thoroughly.     Add    the    juice    of    one-half 
leftion  and   serve. 

Frogs  Sante  a  la  Creole. 

Grenouilles  Sautees   a   la   Creole. 

6   Frog    Legs. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

3    Large    Onions. 

6  Fresh  Tomatoes  or  a  Half  Can. 

1    Sprig    of    Thyme.     1    Bay    Leaf. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

6  Green  Sweet  Peppers. 

Cup  of  Consomme   or  Boiling  Water, 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  Frogs'  legs.  Put  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and 
add  the  legs.  Let  this  brown  well,  being 
careful  not  to  burn.  After  ten  minutes 
of  very  slow  cooking  on  a  good  fire,  take 
three  large  onions  and  slice  them  and  let 
them  brown  with  the  frogs.  Then  add 
one-half  dozen  nice  large  fresh  tomatoes, 
or  a  half  can;  cover  and  let  these  brown. 
Cook  very  slowly,  adding  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  thyme,  bay  leaf,  two  cloves  of 
garlic,  all  chopped  very  fine  indeed.  Lei 
the  mixture  smother  slowly  over  the  fire, 
and,  if  possible,  add  one-half  dozen  green 
sweet  peppers  sliced  "s'ery  fine,  being 
careful  to  extract  all  the  seeds.  Stir 
well  and  let  it  smother  twenty  minutes 
longer,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent 
burning.  When  well  smothered — that  is, 
when  the  Frogs'  legs  are  tender,  which 
is  easily  ascertained  by  touching  wUh 
a  fork — add  one  cup  of  broth,  if  you  have 
it,  or  consomme;  if  not,  add  one  cup  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  cook  again  for 
half  an  hour  very  sl0"W"ly  and  well  cov- 
ered.    Serve  hot. 

Fried   Frogs. 

Grenouilles  Frites. 

6  Frog  Legs. 
1-2  Cup  of  Lemon  Juice  and  a.  Teaspoon 

of    Salt. 

2  Eggs.    1   Cup   of  Sifted   Bread  Crumbs 

Parsley,    Sliced    Lemon    and    Radishes   to 

Garnish. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Scald  the  Frogs'  legs  about  three  min- 
utes in  boiling  water  and  add  a  halt  cup 
of    lemon    juice    and    salt.     Take    out    of 


33 


the   water    and    dry    with    a    clean    towel. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dip  Into 
a   batter  made   of  the    well-beaten    yolks 
and  whites  of  two  eggs  and  sifted  bread 
orum*s.    Pat    the    Frogs    well    and    drop 
Into  the  lard,   heated  to   a  boiling  point, 
and  fry  to  a   golden  brown.     Take  theci 
from  the  lard  and  drain  well  by  placing 
on    soft    brown    paper,    heated.     Place    a 
snow-white  folded  napkin  in  a  dish,  and 
lay  the   frogs   upon   it   and   garnish   with 
fried  parsley  and   sliced   lemon,   or  place 
the  Frogs  in  a  bed  of  fried  parsley  laid 
In  the   dish  and    garnish   with   decorated 
radishes  and  sliced  lemons. 
Broiled   Frogs. 
Grenouilles  Grillees. 
6    Frog   Legs. 
A  Cup  of  Boiling  Lemon  Juice  and  Salt. 
1   Tablespoonful   of  Olive   Oil. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Black  Pepper. 
1   Tablespoonful   of   Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Lettuce    Leaves    and    Parsley,    or    Sliced 
Lemons    and    Olives   to    Garnish. 
Clean   and   skin   the   Frogs;    scald   well 
in    boiling    lemon    juice    and    salt.     Dry 
with    a    clean    towel.     Mix    thoroughly    a 
little  black  pepper,  salt  and  olive   oil,  or 
butter  melted,   and   rub    the   Frogs  thor- 
oughly, rolling  them  over  and  over.  Take 
out   and    put    on    a    double    wire    broiler, 
being  careful  to   turn  frequently  to   pre- 
vent  scorching.     "When   done,    place   in    p. 


platter  of  delicate  lettuce  leaves  or  pars- 
ley and  garnish  with  sliced  lemons  and 
olives. 

Stewed  Frees. 

Grenouilles   en   Fricassee. 

1  Dozen  Frog  Legs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Flour.    1-2    Pint    ol 

1-2  Pint  of  Oyster  Water. 

1    Sprig   of    Thyme.    1    Sprig    of    Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     1  Sprigs  of  Sweet  Marjoram. 

10   Allspice.    1   Clove. 

The   Yolk    of   an    Egg.     Croutons. 

2   Dozen   Oysters. 

Take  the  legs  of  one  dozen  Frogs  and 
prepare  the  same  as  for  frying.  Take  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  put  in  a  fry- 
ing pan.  When  it  begins  to  melt,  add  a, 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  con- 
stantly. When  it  begins  to  brown  nicely, 
add  a  half  pint  of  water  and  a  pint  of 
oyster  water.  Throw  in  the  Frog  legs 
as  it  begins  to  boil,  and  add  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  Cayenne,  a  sprig  of  thyme, 
bay  leaf  and  sweet  marjoram,  eight  or 
ten  allspice,  one  clove.  Let  it  simmer 
about  fifteen  minutes  and  take  off  the 
fire.  (Have  ready  the  yolk  of  a  beaten 
egg,  and  add,  blending  well,  and  serve 
immediately  with  garnishes  of  Croutons, 
and  fried  in  a  little  butter,  with  oysters 
laid  upon  them. 


CHAPTER  IX. 
SHBLL   FISH. 

Des    Crustaches. 


Under  this  heading  are  classed  the 
shell  fish  found  in  our  Louisiana  waters 
and  those  of  the  Mississippi  Sound  ad- 
jacent to  New  Orleans.  Oysters 
Shrimp,  Crabs,  and  Crawfish  and  the 
famous  Green  Turtle — these  are  the  de- 
lightful varieties  that  are  common  ar- 
ticles of  food  among  the  people  and 
which   are   to   be   had   for   the   fishing. 

That  delicious  bivalve,  the  Oyster,  has 
its  hontie  among  us.  Everyone  who  has 
visited  New  Orleans  in  winter  has  noted 
the  exceptionally  palatable  oysters  that 
are  sold  in  every  restaurant  and  by  the 
numerous  small  vendors  on  almost  every 
other  corner  or  so  throughout  the  low- 
er section  of  the  city.  In  the  cafes, 
the  hotels,  the  oyster  saloons,  they  are 
served  in  every  conceivable  style  known 
to  epicures  and  caterers.  The  oyster 
beds  adjacent  to  New  Orleans  send  to 
our  markets  the  famous  Bayou  Cook  and 
Barataria  Oysters,  eagerly  sought  and 
highly  prized  for  exquisite  flavor  and 
unsurpassed  in  quality.  The  Mississipp' 
Sound  is  well-nigh  stocked  with  oysters 
from  one  end  to  the  other,  and  millions 
of  cans  are  shipped  yearly  from  Biloxi 
and  other  points  to  every  point  of  the 
United  States.  And  so  with  our  cele- 
brated Lake  and  River  Shrimp.  No  oys- 
ters are  caught  in  the  Mississippi  Sound 
between  May  and  September,-  because 
they  are  somewhat  milky  and  considered 
unfit  for  use,  and  so  strict  are  the  laws 
governing  the  uses  of  dredges  in  the 
Sound  that  a  watchman  accompanies 
each  dredge-boat  to  see  that  no  attemp* 
is  made  to  use  the  dredge  in  less  than 
fourteen  feet  of  water,  the  idea  being 
that  dredges  shall  not  be  used  where  the 
water  is  sufficiently  shallow  to  admit  of 
their  being  dug  of  tongs.  Thus  are  pre- 
served, in  all  their  splendid  flavor  and 
almost    inexhaustible    supply,    our    oyster 


beds,  and  while  the  yearly  increase  in 
consumption  of  this  delicious  bivalve 
has  tended  to  alarm  scientists  and  to 
awaken  an  interest  in  the  question  as  to 
whether  the  American  oyster  beds  may 
not  likely  become  depleted,  scientists  ac- 
quainted with  the  oyster  beds  on  our 
Gulf  coast,  say  that  for  domestic  pur- 
poses there  are  sufficient  oysters  to  sup- 
ply the  United  States.  The  railroad  fa- 
cilities for  handling  oysters  can  hardl> 
be  improved,  and  fresh  and  fine  and 
ready  to  be  eaten,  they  arrive  in  our 
markets.  The  Bayou  Cook  and  Barataria 
Oysters  are  with  us  all  summer,  and 
New  Orleans  is  the  acknowledged  com- 
mercial center  of  the  oyster  trade  on  the 
Gulf  coast. 

New  Orleh-ns  opened  the  eyes  of  the 
United  States  to  the  possibilities  of  the 
oyster  in  every  variety  and  form  of 
cookihg.  Her  chefs  evolved  the  mo&t 
dainty  and  palatable  ways  of  preparing' 
them,  and  while  raw  oysters  remained 
practically  an  unknown  quantity  in  aris- 
tocratic centers  in  other  states  of  the 
Union,  the  Creoles,  quick  to  discover  and 
apply,  placed  the  raw  oyster  on  their 
table  as  one  of  the  greatest  delicacies 
that  could  be  offered  the  most  fastidi- 
ous appetite.  In  the  following  recipes 
are  given  the  most  delightful  manner  of 
serving: 

OYSTERS. 

Huitres    a    la    Creole. 

There  has  already  been  given,  in  the 
chapter  devoted  to  soups,  the  several 
ways  that  the  Creoles  have  of  prepar- 
ing oysters  in  this  style.  (See  Oyster 
Soups.)  In  a  general  treatment  of  oys- 
ters, it  presents,  first,  that  famous  but 
exceptionally  palatable  manner  in  which 
oysters    can    be    eaten    at   all    hours,    day 


34 


or  night,  without  overloading  the  stom- 
ach or  causing  the  least  symptom  of  in- 
digestion,  viz: 

Baw    Oysters    on    Half    Shell. 
Huitres   en   Coquilles. 
6  Oysters  to  Each  Plate.     Cracked  Ice. 
Maunsell    White    or    Black    Pepper,    Cay- 
enne and  Vinegar. 
Lemon,   Sliced    or  Cut  in   Quarters. 

Allow  six  oysters  to  each  person  where 
the  bivalve  is  used  to  begin  I  he  dinner 
or  breakfast.  Have  the  oysters  opened 
in  their  shell  and  remove  one-halt  of 
the  shell.  Drain  the  water  from  the 
oyster  shell,  without  disturbing  the  oys- 
ter, and  place  in  plates,  witli  cracked  ice, 
spri,nkled  over  with  a  quarter  of  a 
sliced  lemon  in  the  center  of  the  plate. 
Serve  with  black  pepper  and  Cayenne,  if 
desired,  or  the  famous  Maunsell  White, 
sold  in  all  New  Orleans  oyster  saloons.  A 
half  cup  is  given  as  "lagniappe"  by  the 
dealers  to   their  customers. 

Dainty  rolls  of  fresh  butter  and  oyster 
crackers    are    served    with    raw    oysters. 

Oysters  Served  in  a  Block  of  Ice, 

Huitres   sur   la    Glace. 

6    Oysters    to    Each    Person.       A    Square 

Block   of  Ice. 

Black   Pepper   and   Cayenne. 

Sprigs    of    Parsley    and    Radishes    to 

Garnish. 

Lemon   Cut   in    Quarters. 

This  is  one  of  the  prettiest  ways  of 
serving  oysters  at  a  dinner  or  luncheon, 
as  well  as  one  of  the  most  recherche. 
Have  your  dealer  send  a  square  block  of 
ice  of  the  size  desired  and  make  a  hollow 
in  the  center  of  the  block  by  placing  a 
flat-iron  on  the  top,  scooping  out  with 
the  iron  the  shape  desired.  Then  place 
a  folded  napkin  on  a  platter  and  stand 
the  block  of  ice  upon  it.  Pepper  the  oys- 
ters nicely  with  Cayenne  and  black  pep- 
per, and  place  in  the  ice.  Then  take 
sprigs  of  parsley  and  decorate  the  plat- 
ter, placing  between  decorated  radishes, 
and  alternate  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve 
the  oysters  with  lemon  cut  in  quarters. 
The  effect  of  this  decoration  is  very 
charming.  Smilax  may  be  substituted 
for  the  parsley  or  mixed  with  it.  The 
cavity  should  be  squa.re  and  deep,  leav- 
ing walls  of  ice  about  two  inches  in 
thickness. 

Broiled    Oysters. 

Huitres  sur  le  Gril. 

6  or  8  Oysters  to  Each  Person.  Salt  and 

Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Melted   Butter  and  Chopped  Parsley. 

Sliced    Lemon    and    Sprigs    of   Parsley    to 

Garnish. 

Allow  six  or  eight  oysters  to  eac^i 
person.  The  oysters  must  be  large  and 
fat,  else  they  will  shrivel  to  nothing  in 
cooking.  Drain  the  oysters  through  a 
colander,  lay  them  on  a  dish  and  wipe 
with  a  dry,  clean  towel.  Melt  butter 
and  dip  in  the  oysters,  seasoned  well 
with  salt  and  Cayenne  on  both  sides. 
Have  ready  the  gridiron  (use  always  the 
double  wire  broiler)  and  test  the  heat  by 
dropping  a  little  water  on  it.  If  the  wa- 
ter hisses,  the  broiler  is  quite  ready. 
Place  the  broiler  in  a  warm  place — ^just 
over  the  oven  will  do.  Butter  and  place 
the  oysters  on  it.  Return  to  moderate 
coals.  As  soon  as  the  oysters  are 
browned  on  one  side,  turn  on  the  other 
and  brown.  Have  ready  a  heated  dish 
and  serve  the  oysters,  pouring  ovei 
melted  butter  and  chopped  parsley 
(chopped     very     fine).         Garnish      with 


sprigs    of    parsley   and    sliced    lemon   and 
serve   immediately. 

Broiled  Oysters   on  Toast. 

Huitres    sur    Canapes. 

6  or  8  Oysters  to  Each  Person.     Salt  and 

Pepper  to   Taste. 

6     or     8     Pieces     of     Buttered     Toast     or 

Milk    Toast. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butter. 

Chopped    Parsley    to    Garnish. 

Broil  the  oysters  according  to  the  re- 
cipe given  above.  Have  ready  a  heated 
dish;  sprinkle  the  oysters  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  pour  over  melted  butter. 
Serve  on  small  pieces  of  buttered  toast, 
or  milk  toast.  Sprinkle  with  finely- 
chopped  parsley. 

Broiled    Oysters    With    Sauce, 

Huitres    Grillees    a    la    Sauce    Espagnole. 

1  Pint  of  Oyster  Liquor  to  Every  2  Dozen 

Oysters. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.  2  Tablespoon- 
fuls   of    Sifted    Flour. 
Salt    and    Cayenne    to    Taste.      Chopped 
Parsley. 
6    or    8    Squares    of    Buttered    Toast 

Drain  the  oysters  and  allow  about 
one  pint  of  the  oyster  liquor  to  over 
two  dozen  oysters.  Have  ready  a 
porcelain-lined  saucepan  and  put  the 
liquor  on  to  boil.  As  the  scum  rises 
skim  it  carefully.  Put  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  into  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
it  begins  to  heat,  add  gradually  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  sifted  flour.  Mix  well 
and  browrf.  Pour  over  this  the  oyster 
liquor  and  stir  constantly  till  it  begins 
to  bail,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper 
(Cayenne)  and  parsley  chopped  very  fine. 
Stand  the  sauce  in  a  vessel  in  hot  water 
(bain-marie)  until  wanted,  and  proceed 
to  broil  the  oysters  in  the  same  manner 
as  in  the  recipe  first  given.  Place 
squares  of  buttered  toast  in  a  dish,  lay 
the  oysters  on  top,  pour  over  the  sauce, 
and  serve   immediately. 

Oysters    en    Brochettes. 

Huitres  en  Brochettes. 

3   Dozen   Large,  Fat  Oysters.     Thin  Slits 

of  Bacon. 

A  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Minced    Parsley. 

Sliced  Lemon  and  Olives  to  Garnish. 

Have  ready  a  furnace  with  redhot 
coals;  take  fine  sliced  breakfast  bacon 
and  cut  into  thin  slits  about  the  size  of 
the  oyster.  Drain  three  dozen  large, 
fat  oysters;  take  a  long  skewer,  of  sil- 
ver or  metal  that  is  not  dangerous,  and 
string  it  first  with  a  slit  of  bacon  and 
then  an  oyster,  alternating  this  until  it  is 
filled,  the  extreme  ends  terminating  with 
the  bacon.  Then  hold  the  ovsters  over 
the  clear  fire  and  broil  until"  the  edges 
begin  to  ruffle,  when  thev  are  done.  In 
the  meantime  prepare  some  drawn  but- 
ter by  placing  about  a  tablespoonful  In  a 
cup  before  the  fire  to  melt;  place  the 
oysters  In  a  hot  dish,  alternating  with 
slices  of  bacon,  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  drawn  but- 
ter mixed  with  about  one  tablespoonful 
of  parsley,  chopped  fine;  garnish  ■Willi 
slices  of  lemons  and  whole  olives,  and 
serve.  The  oysters  and  bacon  may  bf 
served  on  the  skewers,  if  they  are  not 
charred  or  blackened;  but  the  other  Is 
the    far    daintier    method. 


35 


Oysters  Broiled  In    Shells, 

Huitres  en  Coquilles  sur  le  Gril. 
3     Dozen     Fine,     Fat     Oysters. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Finely  Cliopped  Pars- 
ley. 
1  Bay  Leaf.       Sprigs  of  Thyme. 
1  Sprig  of  Sweet  Basil.     2  Shallots. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter,  Grated  Bread 

Crumbs. 

Asparagus    Tips    and    Sliced    Lemon      to 

Garnish. 

Dozen  Well  AVashed  Oyster  Shells. 

Take  three  dozen  fine  oysters;  blanch 
in  their  own  water  and  drain.  Chop  a 
tablespoonful  of  fine  parsley,  hay  leaf 
and  thyme,  using  a  sprig  each  of  the  lat- 
ter and  a  sprig  of  sweet  basil.  '  Cut  up 
two  nice  shallots  very  fine  and  add. 
Place  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan;  add  a  little  oyster  juice  saute, 
or  shake  the  oysters  without  making 
a  bouillon.  When  two  minutes  have 
passed,  take  off  the  stove,  place  the  oys- 
ters in  the  well  washed  shells,  sprinkle 
over  a  little  bread  crumbs,  and  put  on 
top  of  each  a  pinch  of  butter.  Have 
ready  the  gridiron  or  broiler  very  hot; 
place  the  shells  between  the  double  broil- 
er, set  over  the  fire  to  broil  for  about 
four  or  five  minutes,  and  serve  with 
delicate  garnishes  of  asparagus  tips  and 
sliced    lemon. 

Oysters  and  Bacon. 

Huitres    Bordees. 

3  Dozen  Oysters.  Thin  Slices  of  Breakfast 

Bacon. 

Minced   Parsley.       Sauce   Piquante. 

Wrap  each  oyster  in  a  very  thin  slice 
of  breakfast  bacon.  Lay  on  a  broiler 
over  a  baking  pan  in  a  hot  oven.  Re- 
move when  the  bacon  is  brown.  Each 
must  be  fastened  with  a  wooden  tooth- 
pick. Serve  with  minced  parsley  and 
pepper  sauce,  or  Sauce  Piquante.  (See 
recipe) . 

Fried  Oysters. 

Huitres    Frites. 

6  or  8   Oysters  to   Each   Person. 

Salt  and   Pepper. 

Finely  Grated  Bread  Crumbs.  Parsley  to 

■a.      Garnish. 

Boiling   Lard. 

Drain  the  oysters,  allowing  about  six 
or  eight  to  each  person  to  be  served. 
Salt  and  pepper  and  then  roll  oysters  in 
bread  crumbs,  grated  very  fine.  Drop 
in  the  frying  pan  of  boiling  lard,  having 
sufficient  lard  to  allow  the  oysters  to 
swim  in  the  grease  Remove  when  a 
golden  brown  and  place  on  brown  paper 
and  drain.  Serve  on  a  platter  gar- 
nished with  parsley  or  on  a  bed  of  fried 
parsley.  (See  recipe  for  Fried  Pars- 
ley). 

Tried  Oysters  a  la  Creole. 

Huitres    Frites    a    la    Creole. 

6  or  8   Oysters  to  Each  Person. 

1  Egg.       1  Glass  of  Milk. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt.     1-2  Teaspoonful 

of  Black  Pepper. 
Grated  Cracker  or  Bread  Crumbs.      But- 
ter Oil. 
Parsley. 
Sliced  Lemon  and  Pickle  to  Garnish. 
Select   the    firmest   and    largest    oysters 
allowing    six    or    eight    to    each    person. 
Drain  in  a  colander  and  dry  with  a  soft 
linen    towel.        Beat    an    egg    thoroughly 
and  mix  with  a  glass  of  milk  and  a  half 
teaspoonful    of   salt   and    pepper.       Mash 
bread  crumbs  or  crackers  in  another  dish. 
Dip  the   oysters   one  by  one  in   the  milk 


and  roll  gently  in  the  bread  crumbs, 
patting  softly  with  the  hands,  and  drop 
into  a  deep  frying  pan,  with  sufficient 
lard  or  butter  oil  for  the  oyster  to  swim 
in  it.  In  from  three  to  five  minutes 
the  oysters  will  be  done.  The  time  giv- 
en will  allow  them  to  fry  to  a  nice  gold- 
en brown,  and  it  will  not  be  necessary  to 
turn  them  if  the  oil  in  the  pan  is  deep 
enough.  Take  them  out  with  a  skim- 
mer, being  careful  not  to  break,  and 
drain  on  a  piece  of  soft  brown  paper. 
Serve  on  a  bed  of  fried  parsley,  with 
garnishes  of  sliced  lemon  and  pickle. 
Bread  crumbs  are  far  preferable  to 
crackers.  Butter  is  often  used  in  fry- 
ing oysters,  but  the  butter  oil  is  found 
by  experience  to  be  better  than  either 
lard  or  butter.  Some  also  use  commeal 
instead  of  the  bread  crumbs,  but  there 
is    no   comparison   as   to    results. 

Stewed    Oysters. 

Huitres    en    Fricassee. 
4    Dozen    Large    Oysters. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour.    1  Tablespoon- 
ful  of  Butter. 
1  Pint  of  Oyster  Liquor. 
1  Pint  of  Rich   Cream   or   Milk. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Take  about  four  dozen  large  oysters, 
drain  in  a  colander.  Mix  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour  and  one  of  butter  to- 
gether. Put  one  pint  of  oyster  liquor 
on  the  fire  and  add  the  flour  and  butter 
blended.  Have  ready  in  another  sauce- 
pan a  pint  of  rich,  hot  cream.  After 
five  minutes,  add  this  to  the  oyster 
liquor,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
burning.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Let  it  boil  up  once  and  then  add  the 
oysters.  After  three  minutes  serve.  This 
is   a  very  delicate  dish. 

Oyster    Sautees. 
Huitres    Sautees. 
6  or  8   Oysters  to  Each  Person. 
3    Slices    of    Fat    Bacon. 
1    Tablespoonful    of    Flour.  Salt    and 

Pepper  to  Taste. 
6   or  8   Squares  of  Buttered   Toast. 
Olives,     Pickles     and     Sliced     Lemon     to 
Garnish. 
Drain  the  oysters  well  and  dry  with  a 
clean   towel.        Sprinkle    them    with    pep- 
per  and    salt,    and   roll   in    a    little   flour. 
Place  the  bacon,  cut  into  thin  slices,  in  a 
frying  pan,    and   let  all   the   fat   fry   out. 
Semove    the    bacon    from    the    pan    and 
place  in  the  oysters,  covering  the  bottom. 
As  they  turn  a  golden  brown  on  one  side, 
turn      over      on      the    other.        Serve    on 
squares  of  buttered  toast,  with  garnishes 
of    olives,   pickles    and   sliced   lemon. 

Coddled    Oysters. 

Huitres  Rotie  sur  Canapes. 

6  or  8   Oysters  to   Each  Person. 

6   Slices   of   Bread. 

1    Large    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.      1-2 

Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Black    Pepper.        A 
Dash    of    Cayenne. 
2  Sprigs  of  Parsley  Chopped  Very  Fine. 
1   Bay   Leaf   Minced   Fine. 
3    Cloves.    1    Blade    of    Mace.      1    Pint    of 
Oyster  Liquor. 
Toast    five    or    six    slices    of    bread    to 
a   nice   brown    and    butter   them   on   both 
sides.       Drain   the   liquor   from   the   oys- 
ters   and   put  it   in   a   saucepan.       When 
hot,   add   a   large   lump   of  butter.     Have 
ready  a  baking  dish  and  place  the  toast 
within;     lay    the    oysters    on    the    toast, 
having  seasoned  well  with  salt,  Cayenne 
pepper,   chopped   parsley,   bay  leaf,  mace 


36 


and  cloves.  Put  the  liquor  of  the  oys- 
ters over  the  toast  until  it  is  well  aD- 
sorbed.  Set  it  in  an  oven  and  bake  (or 
five  or  six  minutes  with  a  quick  fire. 

Deviled    Oysters. 

Huitres    a    la    Diable. 

3    Dozen    Oysters.      1    Tablespoonful     of 

Butter. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour. 

1-2  Pint  of  Cream.     The  Yolks  of  2  Eggs. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Chopped    Parsley.    1 

Bay    Leaf.       1    Blade   of    Mace. 
3   Sprigs   of   Parsley.     Salt   and    Cayenne 

to  Ts-Stc 

Sprigs  of  Parsley  or  Asparagus  Tips  and 

Sliced  Lemon  and  Olives  to  Garnish. 

Take  three  dozen  fine,  large  oysters, 
drain  and  chop  them  into  middling  fine 
pieces.  Rub  together  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  or 
flour,  very  smoothly.  Place  in  a  sauce- 
pan one-half  pint  of  cream,  and,  when 
it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  flour 
and  butter.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  and,  as  soon  a^ 
the  milk  boils,  take  from  the  fire  and 
add  the  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  pars- 
ley chopped  fine,  one  bay  leaf  chopped 
fine,  mace,  and  a  sprig  of  finely- 
chopped  thyme.  Add  salt  and  Ca- 
yenne to  taste,  and  add  the  oysters. 
Take  the  deep  shells  of  the  oysters, 
which  have  been  washed  perfectly  clean 
and  fill  with  this  mixture ;  sprinkle  light-  - 
ly  with  bread  crumbs;  put  a  pinch  of 
butter  on  top,  and  set  in  the  baking  pan 
,  and  brown.  The  oven  should  be  very 
quick,  and  only  five  minutes  are  needed 
for  the  browning.  Serve  the  oysters 
thus  baked  in  their  shells,  and  garnish 
the  dish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or  aspara- 
gus   tips,    olives    and    sliced    lemon. 

Curried    Oysters. 

Huitres    au    Karl. 

4  Dozen  Oysters. 
1     Tablespoonful     of     Butter.       2     Table- 
spoonfuls   of    Flour. 

1  Gill  of  Rich  Cream  or  2  Gills  of  Good 

Milk. 

1-2  Teaspoonful   of  Curry   Powder. 

A   Pinch  of  Corn  Starch. 

2  Sprigs    of    Thyme.      1    Bay    Leaf.      3 

Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste.       The  Oyster 

Water. 

1  Cup  of  Louisiana  Rice  Boiled  a  la 

Creole,    for   Border. 

Take  four  dozen  fine,  large  oysters 
and  drain  the  oyster  liquor  into  a  sauce- 
pan, being  careful  to  extract  all  pieces 
of  shell,  and  set  it  to  boil.  Wipe  the 
oysters  dry  with  a  clean  towel.  Put 
in  another  saucepan  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  let  it  melt;  then  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring  constant- 
ly and  rubbing  smoothly;  do  not  let  it 
brown.  Add  about  one  gill  of  rich 
cream,  or  two  gills  of  good  milk,  to  the 
boiling  oyster  juice,  and  stir  all  this  into 
the  flour  slowly,  avoiding  the  forma- 
tion of  any  lumps,  and  stirring  constant- 
ly. Let  this  boil  about  two  minutes. 
Take  one-half  teaspoonful  of  curry  pow- 
der and  a  pinch  of  cornstarch  or  flour 
and  rub  smoothly  with  a  few  drops  of 
cold  milk.  Stir  this  into  the  oyster 
juice;  season  a  la  Creole  with  Cayenne, 
salt,  chopped  thyme,  etc.,  and,  as  it  bolls 
up,  drop  in  the  oysters;  let  them  cook 
about  three  minutes  and  serve  on  a  dish 
with  a  border  of  Louisiana  rice,  boiled 
so  as  to  appear  like  snowflakes,  the 
grains   standing  apart.   Sprinkle   chopped 


parsley   over  the   oysters   to   form  a  gar- 
nish. 

Oysters   a.  la  Poulette. 
Huitres   a   la   Poulette. 
4  Dozen  Oysters.       1  Gill  of  Sherry. 
The  Yolks   of  2   Eggs.     2   Tablespoonfuls 
of  Rich  Cream. 
Toasted  and   Buttered  Croutons. 
Sliced  Lemon  and  Parsley  Sprigs  to  Gar- 
nish. 

Prepare  as  in  the  above  recipe  for 
Curried  Oysters,  using  a  gill  of  -sherry 
instead  of  the  milk  and  cream,  and 
omitting  the  curry  powder.  Having 
dropped  the  oysters  into  the  boiling 
oyster  juice,  remove  from  the  fire  after 
cooking  three  minutes.  Beat  well  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  rich  cream,  add  to  the  oysters, 
and  serve  with  toasted  and  buttered 
Croutons,  a  garnish  of  sliced  lemons  and 
sprigs   of  parsley. 

Minced    Oysters. 

Huitres  en  Hachis. 

i  Dozen  Oysters.    1  Gill  of  Oyster  Juice. 

A  Half  Can  of  Mushrooms. 
1  Gill  of  White  W^ine.    3  Tolks  of  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1    Gill    of   Rich    Cream.     1   Tablespoonful 

of   Flour. 

Parsley  and  Chives  and  Thyme,  chopped 

fine. 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  water. 
Drain  and  mince,  but  not  too  fine.  Put 
into  the  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and,  when  melted,  add  the  pars- 
ley (chopped  fine),  the  herbs  and  the 
mushrooms.  Then  add  the  flour,  which 
has  been  rubbed  smoothly  in  a  gill  ot 
oyster  juice,  and,  after  it  stews  about 
five  minutes,  add  the  white  wine;  if  this 
is  not  obtainable,  add  another  gill  of 
oyster  juice.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  then 
add  the  minced  oysters,  and  stew  gently 
until  the  sauce  is  absorbed  and  the  mince 
forms  a  thick  batter.  Be  very  careful 
not  to  scorch.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
add  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  which  have 
been  beaten  smoothly  in  the  cream.  Set 
it  back  on  the  fire  and  let  it  remain 
about  one  minute,  and  serve  on  large 
toasted  and  buttered  Croutons,  with  gar- 
nish of  lemon  and  parsley  an^  olives. 
Baked  Oysters. 
Huitres  au  Gratln. 
3  Dozen  Fine,  Large  Oysters. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Sauce    Piquante.     3    Shallots. 
1-2    Can    of    Mushrooms. 
1    Tablespoonful    of  Flour.     1   Gill   White 
Wine. 
Parsley.    Thyme    and    Bay    Leaf, 
chopped    fine. 
Boil   the   oysters  about  two  minutes  In 
their   own    liquor,    dropping   them   in  the, 
liquor   as    it   comes   to-  the   boiling  point 
Pass  them   through   a  "Sauce  Piquante, 
rolling  nicely.     Mix  the  melted  butter  and 
the     chopped     parsley,     thyme,     etc..    the 
shallots  chopped    very   fine,   and  moisten 
well   with   a  little   ovster  juice;    chop  the 
mushrooms  fine  and  add,  pouring  in  the 
gill    of   wine.     After   it   is   reduced,  being 
careful  to  stir  constantly,  select  the  finest 
and   largest   shells   of   the   oysters,   which 
have    been    cleaned    well,    and    place    in 
each  fo-ur  or  six  ovsterg;   pour  over  each 
shell    the   sauce,    filling   nicely.    In   pyra- 
midal shape;   place  on  each  a  bit  of  but- 
ter,  and   set  in   the   stove   for   about  fi'* 
minutes,    or    over    a    gridiron    on    a   slow 
fire  for  about  ten  minutes.     Serve  in  thj 
shells,     with      garnish     of     parsley     ana 
lemons,  sliced. 


37 


Scalloped   Oysters. 

Coquilles    d'Huitres. 
4  Dozen   Fine   Oysters.    3   Tablespoonfuls 

ot  Butter. 

1   Blade    ot   Mace.     4   Cloves.     1    Sprig   oi 

Thyme. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1-2  Cup  of  Rich  Milk  or  Cream. 

1-2  Cup  of  Oyster  Liquor.     Grated  Bread 

Crumbs. 

Select  about  four  dozen  fine  oysters. 
Have  ready  a  porcelain-lined  baking 
dish,  or  any  good  dish  that  will  not 
darken  the  oysters.  Drain  the  oysters  in 
a  colander,  strain  the  liquor  to  remove 
all  pieces  of  shell  and  save  it.  Butter 
the  baking  dish  and  place  in  a  layer  of 
oysters,  well  seasoned,  a  la  Creole,  with 
Cayenne,  salt,  chopped  ma.ce,  cloves', 
thyme,  parsley  and  bay  leaf,  chopped 
very  fine.  Place  over  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  about  a  half-inch  in  thickness. 
Place  here  and  there  little  dots  of  but- 
ter and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  another  layer  cf  seasoned  oysters, 
and  then  another  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Then  mix  a  half 
cup  of  rich  cream  and  milk  and  a  half 
cup  of  the  oyster  liquor,  and  pour  over 
the  dish.  ■Si)rinkle  the  last  layer  with 
bread  crumbs  and  dot  gently  with  bits 
of  butter.  Pla^e  in  a  quick  oven  and 
bake  about  fifteen  or  twenty  m'inutes,  or 
until  a  nice  brown. 

Oysters   au  Parmesan. 

Huitres    au    Parmesan. 

3   Dozen    Oysters. 

Grated   Parmesan    Cheese. 

1    Cup    of    Grated    Bread    Crumbs. 

1  Gill  of  White  Wine. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Butter. 

Salt,    Cayenne.    1    Bay    Leaf. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

Brown  the  bread  crumbs  in  a  little 
butter,  and  butter  a  shallow  dish  and 
stew  with  bread  crumbs.  Drain  the  oys- 
ters and  dry  with  a  clean  towel;  season 
highly  a  la  Creole;  place  them,  one  by 
one,  on  the  bread  crumbs;  strew  chopped 
parsley  over  them,  and  the  grated  cheese, 
using  good  judgment  as  to  quantity. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  bread  crumibs  again, 
and  pour  over  all  a  gill  of  white  wine. 
Place  in  the  oven,  which  should  be  very 
quick;  let  them  remain  about  fifteen 
minutes,  till  quite  brown.  Take  out  and 
pour  over  a  little  drawn  butter,  and  serve 
with  lemon  garnish. 

Roasted    Oysters. 
Huires   Rotis. 
3  Dozen  Fine,  Large,  Fat  Oysters. 
1    Tablespoonful    Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Buttered    Toast. 
Clean  the   oyster  shells  thoroughly,   set 
them  on  the  top  of  the  stove  or  place  in 
a  baking  pan  untill  the  shell  is  easily  re- 
moved. Remove  the  flat  outer  shell.  But- 
ter the  oyster  in  the  deep  shell  and  serve 
very   hot    with    salt    and    pepper.     In    old 
Creole     families     roasting     parties     were 
often    given,    and    there    was    always    a 
frolic  in  the  kitchen,  the  belles  and  beaux 
vying  with   one   another   in   roasting   the 
delicious  bivalve.    As  the  bhells  open  put 
in  a  little  butter.     The  oysters  were  sent 
to   the   table   in    their  shells;    by   a   quick 
movement  the   outer   shell    was   removed, 
and    they   were   eaten    with    pepper  sauce 
or  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar.     There  were 
great  frolics  in  the  kitchens  in  those  days 
roasting  oysters  as  at  the  famous  "Crepe" 
or  doughnut  parties. 


Oyster  Pun  Roast. 
Huitres  a,  la  Poele. 
A    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 
1   Tablespoonful   of  Chopped   Parsley. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Sliced    Lemon    and    Parsley    tc    Garnish. 
The  largest  and  finest  oysters  are  used 
for  this  purpose.     Drain  the  oysters,  heat 
a   deep    frying    pan,    drop    in    a    generous 
lump  of  butter.     When   it  melts,   add   the 
oysters,    covering    and    shaking    the    pan 
constantly   over   a   hot   fire.    (Have   ready 
a  dish  well  'buttered  and  nicely  garnished 
with  parsley  and  lemon  slices.    When  the 
oysters  are  brown,  turn  quickly  into  the 
dish  and  add  salt  and  pepper  and  melted 
butter,     into     which     you     have     dropped 
finely-chopped  parsley,  and  serve  hot. 
Steamed    Oysters. 
Huitres  a   la   Vapeur. 
4   Dozen    Oysters. 
A  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 
This   is   a   favorite   way   of  eating   oys- 
ters in  New  Orleans.     Have  ready  a  pot 
of    boiling    water.     Drain    the    oysters    in 
their  shells   and    put   them   in   a   shallow 
tin    pan,    the    bottom    being    perforated. 
Cover    and    put    them    over    the    steamer. 
Let   them   stand    about   ten   minutes,    put 
into  a  hot  dish,  season  with  pepper  and 
Cayenne,    and    serve    with    drawn    butter 
sauce.     If    one    has    not    the    perforated 
tin,    steam    the    oysters    in    their    shells. 
Wash  the  shells  thoroughly   on   the   out- 
side,   place    the    oysters    in    the    steamer 
and    cover,    letting    them    remain    about 
fifteen  minutes  over  the  boiling  water,  or 
until    the   shells    open    easily,    and    serve. 
A  steamer  may  be  improvised  by  using  a 
colander    and    a    closely-fitting    pot    lid. 
The  steamed  oyster  must  be  eaten  when 
very    hot    to    ibe    appreciated    in    all    its 
flavor. 

Oyster  Fritters. 
Beignets  d'Huitres. 
3  Dozen  Oysters. 
2  Eggs.     1  Cup  of  Milk. 
2  Cups  of  Flour.     1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Good  Baking  Powder. 
Parsley    or    Asparagus    Tips    to 
Garnish. , 
Take    two    dozen    large    oysters,    drain 
in   a  colander  and  remove  any  pieces  of 
shell  or  grit  that  may  adhere.     Chop  the 
oysters    fine.     Take    two    eggs    and    beat 
until  very  light.     Then  add  a  cup  of  mile 
and  rub  in  smoothly  two  cupfuls  of  flour 
and   one  teaspoonful   of  salt.     Beat  until 
perfectly      smooth.     Add      one-half      tea- 
spoonful   of    good    baking    powder.     Mix 
well  and  then  drop  in  the  oysters,  which 
must    be    dry.     Then    drop    into    boiling 
lard     or     oil.     When     browned     on     one 
side  turn  on  the  other,  being  careful  not 
to  use  a  fork  cr  to  pierce  them,  as  that 
would    render    the    oysters    and    fritters 
heavy.     Use  a  skimmer  in  removing  from 
the  pot,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve 
on   a   dish    in   which    you    have    placed    a 
folded  napkin  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley   and   asparagus   tips. 
Oyster  Croquettes. 
Croquettes    d'Huitres. 
2  Dozen  Oysters.     1  Gill  of  Rich   Cream 
1    Gill    of    Oyster    Liquor. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour. 
1   TablesDOonful    of   Butter. 
The    Yolks    of    2    Eggs. 
3    Sprigs    of    Parsley. 
Salt  and   Pepper  to  Taste. 
A    Dash     of     Cayenne.      A     Well-Beaten 
Egg. 
Grated  Bread  Crumbs.     Boiling  Lard. 


Take  two  dozen  oysters  and  boil  them 
In  their  own  liquor.  Stir  constantly  and 
boil  tor  about  five  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire  Take  out  the  oysters  ana 
chop  very  tine.  Put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  about  one  gill  each  of  rich 
cream  and  oyster  liquor.  Rub  together 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  one  or 
butter  Add  this  and  the  oysters  to 
the  boiling  milk  and  cream.  Stif  un- 
til it  thickens  and  boils.  Then  add  the 
yolk  of  two  eggs.  Stir  this  over  the  fue 
for  about  one  minute,  and  then  take  oti 
and  add  parsley,  chopped  fine,  salt  and 
Cayenne.  Mix  well  and  place  in  a  dish 
to  cool.  Then  roll  in  a  beaten  egg  to 
bind  and  form  into  cylinders  of  about  a 
finger  in  length.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs 
mashed  fine,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  oi 
oil. 

O.vster    Croquettes    a    la    Creole. 

Croquettes    d'Huitres    ii    la    Creole. 

3    Dozen    Fine    Oysters. 

1    Cup   of   the    White   Meat  of   a   Chicken 

Minced. 

6    Finely    Chopped    Mushrooms. 

1  Teaspoonful    of    Oi»ion   Juice. 

1-2  Cup  of  Cream. 
The  Tolks  of  2  Eggs. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 
1  Bay  Leaf.  1  Tablespoontul  of  Parsley. 
1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 
Salt  and  Cayenne  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Boil  the  oysters  about  three  minutes 
in  their  own  liquor.  Drain  and  chop 
the  oysters  fine.  Take  a  half  cup  of 
the  liquor  in  which  the  oysters  have  beeu 
tioiled  set  it  on  the  fire  and  add  the 
chopped  oysters.  Then  add  the  half  cup 
of  cream,  the  chopped  mushrooms,  and 
the  minced  chicken.  Stir  thoroughly  into 
this  boiling  mixture  the  butter  and  flour 
which  have  been  rubbed  smoothly.  Add 
the  chopped  parsley,  onion  juice,  salt 
and  Cayenne,  and  mix  well.  Then  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Lei 
it  cook  about  two  minutes  and  turn  it 
out  into  a  dish  to  cool.  When  cold, 
roll  into  cylinders  about  two  Inches  in 
length  and  one  inch  in  diameter.  Pas.3 
through  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard.  Serve  immediately  on  a  bed 
of    fried    parsley. 

Oyster    Balls. 
Boulettes  d'Huitres. 

2  Pints  of  Chopped  Oysters. 

2  Pints    Chopped    Sausage    Meat. 
1  Egg.       Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 

To  every  pint  of  chopped  oysters  add 
one  pint  of  chopped  sausage  meat.  Roll 
in  bread  crumbs;  season  highly.  Add 
one  egg  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Make 
into  small  cakes  and  fry  in  boiling  lard 
Serve    hot. 

Oyster    Patties. 
Petites    Bouchees    d'Huitres. 

4  Dozen  Oysters.  1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms.. 
2   Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
1  Small  Onion,  Grated. 
Pepper,    Salt,    Chopped    Parsley 
and    Lemon    Juice. 
Prepare   a   puff  paste    (see  recipe)    and 
lay  on  the  ice  to  cool.       Boll  the  oysters 
in    their    own    liquor.        Drain,    put    the 
butter   in    the   saucepan,    and   when   it    is 
heated,  atid  the  grated  onion  and  rub  in 
the    flour    until   smooth.       Add    a    gill    of 
mushroom    juice    and    pepper,    salt    and 
Cayenne    to    taste,    and    the    mushroom ; 
chopped  in  quarters.       Then  add  the  oys- 
ters and  let  all  stew  about  five  minutes, 
adding  the  lemon  juice      A  tablespoontul 
of    cream    will    improve    the    oysters.      If 


this  is  used,  .omit  the  lemon  jmce.  Line 
*>io  amflll  tins  With  tne  pun  pasie 
and  puf  in  each  three  or  four  oysters 
according  To  the  size  of  the  paste.  Cov- 
e?  with  the  paste  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven   about  fifteen  minutes. 

To  make  the  open  pates  so  much  used 
at  luncheon  and  entertainments  In  New 
Orleans,  cut  the  puff  paste  into  round 
cakes  Those  intended  for  the  bottom 
crust  should  be  about  a  little  less  than 
an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Those  in- 
tended for  the  upper  layers  should  be  a 
little  thicker.  Take  a  small  biscuit  cut- 
ter and  remove  a  round  paste  from  tlia 
center  of  these  latter.  This  will  leave 
a  nice  ring.  Carefully  place  this  upon 
the  bottom  crust,  and  then  a  second  ring, 
until  the  cavity  is  deep  enough  to  hold 
several  oysters.  Lay  the  pieces  that 
have  been  extracted  into  a  pan  with 
these  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown  m  a 
quick  oven.  Then  take  out  and  fill  the 
cavities  with  the  oysters  prepared 
as  above,  fit  on  the  top  very  lightly,  and 
set  in  the  oven  a  second  or  two  and 
serve. 

Oyster  Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent     d'Huitres. 

S  Dozen  Large,  Fine  Oysters. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

6  Tolks  of  Eggs. 

Spices,    Thyme,   Bay   Leaf,  Parsley. 

1   Slice   of  Grated  Bread. 

Take  an  earthen  dish  which  will  hold 
about  three  and  a  half  pints  and  line 
the  sides  with  rich  pie  crust.  (See  recips 
for  Pie  Crust.)  Set  in  the  stove  and  let 
it  bake  a  few  minutes.  In  the  mean- 
time take  about  one  pint  and  a  half  of 
the  oyster  liquor  and  put  on  the  fire, 
after  having  drained  well.  Add  the  sea- 
sonings of  chopped  herbs  and  Cayenne. 
Rub  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  the 
butter  and  add  to  the  liquor,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Mash  the  grated  crumbs;  add 
to  this,  and  mix  well.  Chop  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs  fine.  Then  pour  the  oysters 
into  the  pan  of  pie  crust,  sprinkle  some 
of  the  chopped  eggs  and  grated  bread 
crumbs  over,  and  put  a  teaspoonful  ot 
butter  in  small  bits  here  and  there  over 
this.  Then  roll  out  very  fine  and  thin 
a  layer  of  the  pie  crust.  Place  this  over 
the  preparation  and  ornament  here  and 
there,  all  around,  with  neat  notches  or 
designs,  which  can  be  easily  formed  witli 
the  end  of  a  spoon  or  the  prongs  of  a 
folk.  Cut  a  hole  in  the  center  in  the 
shape  of  the  letter  "X."  Set  in  a  mod- 
erately quick  oven  and  bake  till  brown. 
In  the  meantime,  melt  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  add  the  remaining  oyster  liquor 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  When 
it  is  about  to  come  to  a  boil,  add  one- 
half  cup  ot  rich,  hot  cream  or  boiled  milK 
and  when  the  pie  is  nearly  brown,  pal 
a  funnel  into  the  opening  in  the  center 
and  pour  in  as  much  of  the  liquor  as 
the  pie  will  hold.  Place  a  delicate  gar 
nish  of  pastry  leaves  over  tlie  whole  and 
bake  a  minute  or  so  longer.  If  there 
is  any  sauce  left  over,  serve  it  with  the 
pie. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  have 
the  oysters  over  done.  For  this  reason 
the  upper  crust  is  often  baked  separate- 
ly, as  the  bottom  of  the  pie  is  filled 
with  the  ingredients  and  the  upper  crusl 
placed  on  and  served.  Else  the  oj'S- 
ters  are  laid  in  layers  while  raw  into  the 
crust.  But  thev  are  liable  to  become 
too   dry  when  used   in  this   way. 


39 


Oyster    Salad 

Huitres  en  Salade. 

4  Dozen  Large  Oysters.    2  Crisp 

Heads    of    Lettuce. 

The  Yolks  of  Three  Eggs.    1-2  Teaspoon- 

ful  of  Mustard. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Vinegar. 

Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Oyster  Salad  is  a  favorite  lunch  dish. 
Boil  about  four  dozen  large  oysters  in 
their  own  liquor,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Drain  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Take  two  crisp  heads  of  lettuce  leaves 
and  arrange  nicely  in  the  salad  bowl. 
Turn  the  oysters  into  the  center  of  the 
leaves  and  pour  over  them  the  follow- 
ing dressing:  Take  the  yolks  of  three 
raw  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard, and  a  little  salt ;  beat  these  to- 
gether until  they  begin  to  thicken,  ana 
add  gradually  olive  oil,  as  in  making 
Mayonnaise,  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Add  a  little  vinegar  to  thin  and  serve 
with    the    oysters. 

Pickled    Oysters. 

Huitres    en    Marinade. 

50    or   100    Large,    Fine    Oysters. 

12  Blades   of  Mace. 

1  Large   Tablespoonful   of  Allspice. 

1    Level   Tablespoonful   of   Cloves. 

1    Pepper.      2    Sliced    Lemons. 


1-2    Pint   of    White   Vinegar. 

Salt  o  to    Taste. 

1-2  Dozen  Pepper  Corns. 

Boil  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor 
until  the  edges  begin  to  ruffle.  Then 
take  a  half  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar 
and  a  half  pint  of  the  oyster  water  and 
set  to  boil,  adding  the  blades  of  mace, 
cloves,  allspice,  pepper  corns  and  a  dash 
of  Cayenne.  Salt  to  taste,  .as  soon  as 
they  come  to  a  good  boil,  pour  the  oys- 
ters into  the  boiling  liquor.  Care  must 
be  taken  to  have  the  oysters  very  cold, 
as  they  will  make  the  pickles  slimy  oth- 
erwise. After  adding  the  oysters  to  the 
boiling  liquid,  set  it  aside  to  cool.  Put 
in  a  very  cool  ice  box  and  serve  cold. 
This  is  a  delicious  Creole  luncheon  dish. 

Oyster   Loaf. 

La    Mediatrice. 

Delicate   French    Loaves    of   Bread. 

2  Dozen  Oysters  to  a  Loaf. 
1    Tablespoonful    of    Melted    Butter. 

Take  delicate  French  loaves  of  bread 
and  cut  off,  lengthwise,  the  upper  por- 
tion. Dig  the  crumbs  out  of  the  cen- 
ter of  each  piece,  leaving  the  sides  and 
bottom  like  a  square  box.  Brush  each 
corner  of  the  box  and  the  bottom  with 
melted  butter,  and  place  in  a  quick 
oven  to  brown.  Fill  with  broiled  or 
creamed  oysters.  Cover  with  each  other 
and  serve. 


CHAPTER  X. 
SHELL  FISH— (Continued.) 
Des   Cnistaces. 


This  chapter  embraces  methods  of 
cooking  Shrimp,  Crab,  Crawfish  and 
Turtle,  according  to  the  most  approved 
rules  of  the  Creole  Cuisine. 

SHRIMP. 

Dea    Chevrettes. 

New  Orleans  is  famous  for  the  ex- 
quisite flavor  of  the  River  and  Lake 
Shrimp  which  abound  in  its  markets. 
The  River  Shrimp  is  the  more  delicate 
of  the  tw^o  and  is  always  eaten  boiled 
as  a  preliminary  to  dinner  or  breakfast 
or  luncheon.  The  Lake  Shrimp,  of  larger 
size  and  firmer  qualities,  is  used  for 
cooking  purposes,  and  is  served  in  vari- 
ous delightful  ways,  known  only  to  our 
Creole  cuisinieres.  From  the  Mississippi 
Sound  and  the  New  Orleans  shore  shrimp 
are  sent  deliciously  canned  to  every  part 
of  the  United  States.  In  our  markets 
they  are  sold  fresh  from  the  waters. 

Boiled    Shrimp. 

Chevrettes    Bouillies. 

100    Fine    River    Shrimp. 

A    Large    Bunch    of    Celery    and    Celery 

Tc-ps. 

2  Dozen  Allspice.    2  Blades  of  Mace. 

1  Dozen  Cloves. 

4    Sprigs    Each    of    Thyme,    Parsley    and 

Bay   Leaf. 

1  Red  Pepper  Pod. 

Cayenne,     Black     Pepper,     Salt.     Parsley 

Sprigs  to  Grarnish. 

Select  fine  large  River  Shrimp  for  this 

purpose.    Into  a  pot  of  water  put  a  great 

quantity  of  salt,  almost  enough  to  make 

a  brine.     Pepper  a  great  bunch  of  celery 

and  celery  tops,  chc'pped  fine;  two  dozen 

allspice,   two  iblades   of   mace,   one   dozen 

cloves,  mashed  fine;   thyme,  parsley,  bay 

leaf,    chopped    fine;    Cayenne    and    a    red 


pepper  pod.  When  this  has  boiled  so 
that  all  the  flavor  of  the  herbs  have  been 
thoroughly  extracted,  throw  in  the 
Shrimp.  Let  them  boil  ten  minutes  and 
then  set  the  pot  aside  and  let  the  Shrimp 
cool  in  their  own  water.  Serve  in  a 
platter  on  a  bed  of  cracked  ice,  and 
garnish  with  parsley  sprigs.  This  dish 
is  always  served  as  a  preliminary  to  a 
meal.  A  great  deal  of  salt  is  required 
in  boiling,  as  the  Shrimp  absorb  but  lit- 
tle, and  no  after  addition  can  quite  give 
them  the  same  taste  as  when  boiled  in 
the  briny  water. 

Stewed    Shrimp. 

Cnevrettes  a  la  Creole. 

100  Fine  Lake  S'hrimp.    1  Large  Onion. 

1  Tablespoonful     of    Butter.    1    Can    ot 

Tomatoes  or  12  Fresh  Ones. 

4  Celery  Stalks,  1  Clove  of  Garlic,  1  Sprig, 

of  Thyme. 

2  Bay  Leaves.     Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 

Get  about  100  large  Lake  Shrimp  for 
this  recipe.  Boil  the  Shrimp  first  ac- 
cording to  the  recipe  given  above,  and 
then  pick  off  the  shells,  leaving  the 
Shrimp  whole.  Place  them  in  a  dish. 
Chop  fine  one  large  onion  and  brown  it 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Add  a 
can  of  tomatoes  or  twelve  large,  ripe  to- 
matoes, chopped  fine,  in  their  own  liquor. 
Stir  well  and  brown  lightly.  Then  add 
three  or  four  Btalks  of  celery,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  a  dash  of  Cayenne,  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  two  bay  leaves,  all  chopped  finely 
and  seasoned  with  salt  to  taste.  After 
this  has  cooked  ten  minutes  add  the 
Shrimp.  Let  them  cook  ten  minutes 
longer  and  serve.  Never  pour  water  into 
stewed  Shrimp,  as  the  tomato  juice 
makes  gravy  enough. 


40 


Fried   Shrimp. 

Chevrettes  Frites. 

100    Fine    Lake    Shrimp. 

1  Cup  of  Milk.     Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 
Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste.     A    Dash    of 

Cayenne. 

Fried     Parsley     and     Parsley     Tips     and 

Olives   to   Garnish. 

Use  Fine  Lake  Shrimp  for  this  recipe. 
Boil  first  according  to  the  recipe  given 
for  Boiled  Shrimp.  Then  take  off  the 
fire,  pick  off  shells  and  season  well. 
Take  a  pan  of  milk,  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  After  rolling  the  Shrimp 
^'ell  in  this,  roll  them  in  grated  bread 
crumbs  or  yellow  cornmeal  (the  latter 
being  preferable)  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 
The  Shrimp  must  swim  in  the  lard 
l^'hen  they  are  a  nice  golden  brown  skim 
out  with  a  skimmer  and  drain  on  heated 
brown  paper.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  on  a 
bed  of  fried  parsley  and  garnish  with 
par.sley  tips  and  olives. 

Baked  Shrimp. 

Che^-rettes   au    Gratin. 

100  Lake  Shrimp.     1  Dozen  Tomatoes. 

1     Tablespoonful     of     Butter.     1    Cup    of 

Grated  Bread  Crumbs  or  Crackers. 

Bcdl  the  Shrimp  according  to  recipe. 
Butter  a  deep  dish  well  and  place  within 
a  layer  of  grated  bread  crumbs  or  pow- 
dered crackers.  Pick  and  clean  the 
Shrimp  and  seascn  well.  Stew  about  a 
dozen  tomatoes  in  a  little  butter  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Place  a 
layer  of  the  tomatoes  in  the  dish  and 
then  a  thin  layer  of  crackers  or  grated 
"read  and  o\-er  this  a  layer  of  Shrimp. 
Continue  till  you  have  four  or  five  layers, 
the  last  being  of  the  grated  bread 
crumbs.  Put  little  dots  of  butter  here 
and  there;  place  in  the  oven  and  bake 
till    quite    brown. 

Shrimp   Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent     de     Chevrettes. 

100    Lake   Shrimp. 

2  Slices    of    Stale   Bread.    2   Glasses    of 

TVhite  Wine. 

1  Blade  of  Mace.     3  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 

1-4  of  a  Ground  Nutmeg. 
3  Sprigs  of  Parsley.  1  Tablespoonful  of 
Butter. 
5  Tomatoes.  1-2  of  a  Celery  Stalk. 
1  Bay  Leaf.  1-2  Pint  of  Oyster  Liquor. 
Boil  and  pick  about  100  bhrimp.  Take 
two  large  slices  of  stale  bread  and  break 
cif  the  crusts,  grating  this  fine.  Moisten 
the  bread  with  two  glasses  of  white  wine, 
and  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
dash  of  Cayenne,  ground  nutmeg,  chopped 
mace,  thyme  and  parsley.  Mix  the 
Shrimp  with  the  bread  and  bake  in  a 
dish.  Sprinkle  over  the  grated  crusts  and 
dotting  with  butter.  Serve  this  pie  with 
a  sauce  of  dressed  Shrimp.  To  make  this 
take  a  pint  of  Shrimp,  boiled  and  picked-, 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan.  Add  the  shrimp  and  four  o: 
five  tomatoes,  chopped  fine;  a  little  cel- 
ery, ihyme,  one  bay  leaf,  chopped  fine- 
parsley  (chopped)  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Let  it  cook  for  about  three  or  four  min- 
utes, and  add  a  half  pint  of  oyster  stock 
This  is  delicious  poured  over  the  sliced 
pie. 

Shrimp    in    Tomato    Catsup. 

Chevrettes    a    la    Sauce    Tomate. 
100  River  Shrimp. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of   Tomato    Catsup 

3    Hard-Boiled    Eggs.     Salt,    Pepper    and 
Cayenne  to  Taste. 


Boil  the  Shrimp  and  pick.  Put  them 
into  a  salad  dish,  deason  well  with 
black  pepper  and  salt  and  a  dash  of  Ca- 
yenne. Then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  catsup  to  every  half  pint  of 
Shrimp.  Garnish  with  lettuce  leaves 
and    hard-boiled   egg   and   serve. 

Shrimp   Salad. 

Mayonnaise     de     Chevrettes. 

100  River  or  Lake  Shrimp. 

1    Small    Onion.     1    Bunch    of    Celery 

3  Hard-Boiled  Eggs.     Salt  and  Pepper  to 

Taste. 

Sliced  Lemons,  Beets  and  Celery  Tips 

to  Garnish. 
Boil  and  pick  the  Shrimp,  according 
to  the  recipe  given.  If  Lake  Shrimp  ail 
used,  serve  whole;  if  River  Shrimp,  slice 
in  two,  as  they  will  be  more  dainty,  and 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chop 
celery  fine  and  add  a  little  onion.  Place 
the  Shrimp  in  the  salad  dish  and  pour 
over  all  fine  Mayonnaise  Sauce  (see 
recipe)  and  garnish  with  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  sliced  lemon,  beets  and  celery 
tops,  making  a  beautiful  and  welcome 
dish  at  any  luncheon,  tea  or  home  affair. 

A    Shrimp    Bush. 

Buisson  de  Chevrettes. 
100  Lake  Shrimp. 
Celery  Tips.  Asparagus  Tips. 
A  Shrimp  Bush  is  a  famous  Creole  hors 
d'oeuvre,  and  forms  a  very  handsome  ta- 
ble decoration  also.  Boil  the  Shrimp  ac- 
cording to  recipe.  (See  recipe  Boiled 
Shrimp.)  Take  a  glass  fruit  or  cake 
stand,  the  fruit  stand  with  several  tiers 
bemg  prettier.  As  Shrimp  are  small, 
they  cannot  be  hung  gracefully  around 
the  stand  as  in  a  Crawfish  Bush.  (See 
recipe.)  They  are,  therefore,  piled,  first, 
into  a  small  deep  dish,  and  a  close  cover 
is  put  on  to  press  them  down.  They  are 
then  turned  over  and  will  be  found  cling- 
ing together  in  one  solid  mass.  If  a  cake 
stand  is  used,  set  a  glass  bowl  or  goblet 
on  it.  Place  the  Shrimp  on  top  of  this 
glass  bowl  or  goblet;  then  take  dainty 
bits  of  celer\-  tips  and  asparagus  tips, 
and  heap  around  as  for  a  border. 
Another  row  is  formed  a  little  lower,  and 
again  intermingled  with  asparagus  tips 
and  celery  tops,  between  which  the  pink 
bhrimp  are  gracefully  placed  and  glim- 
mer. The  effect  is  very  pretty.  The 
Surimp  are  served  from  the  bush  as  aa 
hors  d'oeuvre.  The  effect  of  the  pink 
against  the  green  looks  for  all  the  world 
like  a   bush  of  green  and  red. 

CBABS. 

Des  Crabes. 
New  Orleans  points  with  pride,  and 
lustly,  not  only  to  the  splendid  supply 
of  crabs  that  are  to  be  found  at  all 
seasons  in  her  markets,  but  to  the  vari- 
ous delightful  ways  that  the  natives  have 
of  serving  them.  The  following  are 
recipes  that  have  been  handed  down  by 
the  Creoles  from  generation  to  genera- 
tion, and  no  modern  innovations  of  cook- 
ery have  been  able  to  improve  upon 
them. 

Hard-Shell    Crabs. 

Crabes  Durs. 
There  is  a  science  in  eating  the  hard- 
shell Crab  cooked  in  its  own  shell.  The 
Creoles  have  reduced  this  to  a  fine  point 
and  a  crab  may  be  eaten  without  once 
using  the  fingers,  if  one  only  follows  tie 
following  simple  direction:    " 


41 


How   to    Eat   a   Hard-Shell    Crab    Cooked 
In    Its    SheU. 

The  shell  and  claws  should  be  cracked 
in  the  kitchen,  very  gently,  before  being 
brought  to  the  table,  if  the  Crabs  are 
boiled  and  served  whole.  By  a  delicate 
manipulation  of  the  knife  and  fork  re- 
move the  "aprcn"  or  "tablier,"  which  is 
the  small  loose  shell  running  to  a  point 
about  the  middle  of  the  under  shell. 
Then  cut  the  Crab  claws  off,  still  using 
the  knife  and  fork,  and  finally  cut  the 
Crab  into  parts,  and  these  again  in  two. 
Proceed  to  extract  the  meat  from  each 
Quarter  with  the  fork  and  eat  with  salt 
and  pepper.  It  is  considered  quite 
"comme  il  faut"'  to  use  the  fingers,  how- 
ever, in  holding  the  Crabs,  extracting 
the  meat  with  the  prongs  of  the  fork. 
Boiled  Crabs. 
Crabes  BoulUis. 
1  Dozen  Fine  Crabs.  1  Bunch  of  Celery 
and   Celery  Tops. 

2  Dozen  Allspice.     4  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 

4  Sprigs   of   Sweet  Basil. 

4    Sprigs    of   Sweet    Marjoram.     3    Blades 

of   Mace. 

3  Bay    Leaves.    4    Sprigs    of    Chives. 
A  Red  Pepper  Pod.    A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 

Black   Pepper   and   Salt   Sufficient   to 
Make  a  Brine. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
soiling  shrimp.  Buy  fine,  large  Crabs. 
The  livelier  they  are  the  better. 
The  Crabs  must  be  alive  when 
put  into  the  pot.  Have  ready  a  large 
pot  of  waiter.  Throw  in  bunches  of 
celery  tops,  stalks  of  celery  chopped  fine, 
four  or  five  large  sprigs  each  of  thyme, 
chopped  sweet  basil,  marjoram,  chives, 
two  dozen  allspice,  three  blades  of  mace, 
three  bay  leaves,  chopped  fine;  a  pod  of 
red  pepper,  a  dash  of  Cayenne,  black 
pepper  and  salt  enough  to  make  the 
water  briny.  When  this  has  boiled  long 
enough  to  have  extracted  all  the  flavor 
of  the  herbs  throw  in  the  live  crabs  and 
let  them  boil  rapidly  for  about  ten  min- 
utes, or  until  the  shells  are  a  bright  red, 
but  do  not  let  them  boil  one  minute 
longer  than  this,  as  they  will  become 
watery.  Let  them  cool  a  little  in  their 
own  water  and  then  take  out,  strip  off 
the  "dead  man's  fingers,"  crack  the  claws 
without  breaking  open,  and  pile  high 
in  a  broad  platter  and  serve  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Stewed  Crabs. 
Crabes  a  la  Creole. 
1  Dozen  Large  Live  Crabs. 
Tablespoontul  of  Butter  or  Lard. 
1  Stalk   Chopped    Celery. 
1   Dozen    Fresh    Tomatoes    or    1    Can. 
Thyme,     Parsley,     Bay     Leaf,     1     Clove, 
Garlic. 
S'alt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
Boil    a    dozen    fine    large    Crabs    about 
five  minutes  in  order  to  kill  them.     Take 
off  the  fire  and  place  in  a  dish.     When 
sufficiently  cooled  cut  off  the  claws  and 
crack,  separating  the  joints.     Remove  the 
"apron"    or    "tablier"    of    the    Crab    and 
the   "dead   man's    fingers,"    and   take   off 
the  spongy  substance.  These  are  the  por- 
tions   that    are    uneatable.     Remove    the 
shell,  cut  the  body  of  the  Crab  into  four 
parts,    cutting    down    the    center    across. 
Chop  a  large  onion  very  tine  and  brown 
with  butter  or  lard,   using  a  tablespoon- 
ful    of    either.     Add    a    dozen   fine,   large, 
fresh    tomatoes,    chopped    fine,    m    their 
liquor,  and  brown  nicely.  Stir  in  chopped 
celery,     thyme,     parsley,     one     bay    leat. 
chopped    fine;    pepper   and   salt   to    tast-i, 
and  a  dash  of  Cayenne  pepper.     Add  one 
clove  of  garlic,  chopped  fine.    Taste  and 


add    more    seasoning    if    necessary.     Let 
the  mixture  cook   ten  minutes,   then  add 
the  Crabs  and  let  them  cook  ten  minutes 
longer.     Never   add    water   to   this   sauce, 
as    the    liquor    of    the   tomatoes    is    suffi- 
cient    and     makes     an     excellent     sauce. 
This  is  a  fine  fast-day  dish.     Serve  with 
boiled    rice    or    potatoes    boiled    whole. 
Fried  Crabs. 
Crabes  Frites. 
1    Dozen    Fine    Large    Crabs. 
1    Pint    of    Milk. 
6   Tablespoonfuls   of   Butter   or   Lard. 

Stale  Bread   Crumbs,    Grated. 
Thyme,    Parsley,    Bay    Leaf,    Onions. 
Boil  the  Crabs  according  to  recipe.    Cut 
off    the    claws    and    crack    and    cut    the 
Crabs     into     quarters     as     for     stewing. 
Season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.    Have 
ready    a   pint    of    milk.     Mix    pepper    and 
salt    in    proportions    of    about    two    tea- 
spoonfuls    each.    Have    ready    a    pan    of 
boiling  lard  and  a  plate  of  grated  bread 
crumbs.     Dip    the    Crabs    into    the    milk 
and  then   roll    in   the   bread   crumbs   and 
drop   into  the  boiling  lard,   frying  about 
ten    minutes    or    until    a    golden    brown. 
Serve   on   a  platter  with  the   claws   piled 
in    the    center,    the    bodies    of    the    crabs 
grouped  nicely  around,  and  garnish  with 
sprigs    of    parsley.     This    is    a    delicious 
way  of  serving  Hard-Shell  Crabs. 
Stuffed  Crabs. 
Crabes    Farcis. 
1  Dozen  Large,  Fine  Crabs. 
1    Large    Onion.     1    Clove    of    Garlic. 
1  Bay  Leat.     3  Sprigs   of  Thyme. 
3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 
Hot  Pepper.    1-  Tablespocnful    of   Butter, 
S'alt  to  Taste. 
1  Cup  of  Wet  Bread. 
Boil     the     Crabs    according    to     recipe. 
Take   off   the   fire   and   let   them    cool    in 
their    own    water.     When    cool    crack   the 
claws    and    pick    out    all    the    meat.     In 
like    manner,    after    having   removed    the 
uneatable  portions,  pick  out  all  the  meat 
from   the   bodies.     Season   well    with   salt 
and  black  pepper.     Chop  the  onions  and 
herbs  very  fine.     Put  a  tablespocnful  of 
butter  heaping  over  into  the  frying  pan. 
As  it  melts,  add  the  chopped  onion,  and 
when  it  begins  to  fry  add  the  crab  meat» 
which  has  been  thoroughly  seasoned  with 
the  chopped  thyme,  bay  leaf,  parsley  and 
a  dash  of  Cayenne  to  taste.     Let  this  fry 
and  add  a  small  clove  of  garlic,  chopped 
very    fine,    and    finally    add    the    bread,, 
which     has     been     wet     and     thoroughly 
squeezed    of    all    water.     Mix    this    well 
with    the    ingredients    in    the    frying   pan 
and  let  it  fry  about  five  minutes  longer. 
Then  take  off  the  fire  and  let  it  get  cool. 
Take   a    dozen   of  the   finest   and   large'jt 
crab   shells,   or  as  many  as  this  mixture 
will    fill,    and    wash    and    stuff   with    the 
mixture,   forming  it  into  a  rolling  lump. 
Sprinkle   this  with    grated   bread   crumbs 
and  put  a  dot  of  butter  on  top,  or,  better 
still,    sprinkle    with    the    melted    buttsr; 
place    in    the    oven   and   bake    about   five 
minutes,  or  until  a  nice  brown.     Place  on 
a    platter    and    garnish    with    sprigs    of 
parsley    or    celery    tops.     This    is    an    ex- 
cellent method  of  preparing  Stuffed  Crabs 
for   family   use. 

Stuffed    Crabs — No.   Z. 

Crabes    Farcis. 

2  Dozen  Large,  Fine  Crabs. 

Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 

Salt     and     Pepper.     1     Tablespocnful     of 

Butter. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     2  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

Thyme,  Parsley  and  Onion. 

Cayenne  to   Taste. 


42 


Boil  the  Crabs  according  to  recipe. 
Clean  and  cut  and  piclc  out  all  the  meat. 
Chop  an  onion  fine;  chop  the  thyme,  hav 
leaf  and  parsley  and  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  mix  well  with  the  crab  meat.  Seasjn 
highly  with  hot  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Put  one  tablespoonful  heaping  over  with 
butter  into  the  frying  pan.  As  it  melts 
add  the  onion  and  fry,  being  'Careful  not 
to  burn.  Then  add  the  crab  meat,  and, 
if  desired,  the  very  small  clove  c-f  garlic, 
chopped  very  fine.  Let  this  fry  about 
five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Mix 
thoroughly,  fry  three  minutes  longer, 
and  then  take  off  the  stove.  Stuff  the 
crab  shells,  forming  a  i^oUing  lump  in  the 
middle.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  grate  1 
T3read  crumbs,  and  put  a  dot  of  butter 
on  top.  Place  in  a  quick  oven  and  let 
them  bake  about  five  minutes,  or  until 
^  nice  brown.  The  same  or  even  bettor 
results  are  obtained  by  omitting  the 
egg,  many  claiming  that  the  delicals 
flavor  of  the  crab  meat  is  more  daintilj 
preserved  without  this  addition.  This  is 
a  delightful  way  of  serving  Crabs  for 
luncheons,  or  where  it  is  not  necessary 
to  make,  as  the  Creoles  say,  "a  long 
family  dish." 

Deviled  Crabs. 

Crabes  a  le  Diable. 

1  Dozen  Fine,  Large  Crabs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1  Tablespoon  of  Salt. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Chopped   Parsley. 

1     Half     Pint     of     Cream.     1-4     Nutmeg 

Grated. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

The  Yolks  of  4  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  Crabs  according  to  recipe. 
Take  out  and  drain  after  they  have 
cooled  in  their  own  water.  Break  off 
the  claws,  separate  the  shells,  remove 
the  spongy  portions  and  the  "dead  man's 
fingers,"  and  then  pick  out  the  meat. 
Put  the  cream  on  to  boil,  rub  the  flour 
and  butter  together  well  and  add  to  the 
boiling  cream.  Stir  and  cook  for  two 
minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
add  the  crab  meat<  the  yolks  of  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  mashed  very  fine;  the 
chopped  parsley,  grated  nutmeg,  salt 
and  Cayenne.  Clean  the  upper  shells  of 
the  Crabs,  fill  them  with  the  mixture, 
brush  c-ver  with  a  beaten  egg, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  put 
in  a  quick  oven  to  brown;  or,  better 
still,  if  you  have  a  frying  basket,  plun.ge 
the  Crabs  into  the  boiling  fat  or  lard 
until  a  nice  brown.  But  many  prefer 
them  baked. 

Scalloped    Crabs. 

Coquilles    de    Crabes. 

The    Meat  of  1   Dozen   Picked   Crabs. 

A    Dash    O'f    Grated    Nutmeg. 

Bread    Crumbs.     1    Egg. 

Pepper  and  Salt  to  Taste. 

Boil  and  pick  the  Crabs  according  to 
recipe  given  above.  Beat  an  egg  thor- 
oughly and  add  to  the  meat,  which  has 
been  seasoned  highly  with  Cayenne  and 
salt  to  taste.  Take  one  ciove  of  garlic, 
chop  fine  and  add,  then  sift  into  this 
mixture  fine  grated  bread  crumbs  or 
cracker  crumbs,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Beat  an  egg,  roll  the  Crabs  into  boulets 
or  graceful  meat  balls,  and  then  bind  by 
rolling  lightly  in  the  egg.  Roll  in  the 
bread  crumbs,  grated  nicely,  and  then 
drop  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  until  a 
pale  golden  brown,  which  will  generally 
require  about  three  minutes.  The  secret 
Is  to  have  them  cooked  just  enough,  for, 
as   a    rule,    they   are    generally    overdone. 


Wash  and  clean  the  shells  thoroughly; 
wipe  dry,  set  a  boulet  in  the  center  of 
each  and  garnish  prettily  with  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  sliced  lemon.  This  is  a  dainty 
dish  for  breakfast  or  luncheon.  They 
must  be  served  very  hot. 

Crab    Croquettes. 
Crabes  en   Croquettes. 

1   Dozen   Crabs. 

1  C'vp  of  W^et  Bread,  Squeezed  Well. 

1  Or.i"n.     1  Clove  of  Garlic.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Spi  vg  of  Thyme.     3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Butter. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  Crabs  clean  and  pick.  Then 
season  the  meat  well  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Chop  the  onion  fine,  also  the 
herbs.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
the  fryi  ng  pan,  and  as  it  melts  add  the 
chopped  onion.  When  it  begins  to  fry 
add  the  crab  meat,  which  has  been  mixed 
thoroughly  with  the  chopped  thyme,  bay 
leaf,  pa]'sley  and  garlic.  Add  a  dash 
of  Cayeiine  and  put  in  the  frying  pan 
with  the  onion.  Add  the  bread,  which 
has  been  thoroughly  squeezed,  ami  mix 
all  and  fry  about  three  minutes.  Take 
off  the  fire,  and  when  cool  form  the  mix- 
ture into  cylindrical  shapes  of  about  two 
or  three  inches  in  length  and  o:ie  in 
thickness.  Roll  in  grated  bread  ciumijs 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Serve  hot  on  a 
dish  nicely  garnished  with  parsle?  and 
sliced  lemon. 

Crab    Salad. 
Crabes  en   Salade. 

2    Dozen    Fine,    Large    Crabs. 

12  Celery  Stalks.    1  Dozen  Olives. 

A  Mayonnaise  Sauce. 

Boil  the  Crabs  according  to  recipe. 
Clean  and  pick  out  all  the  meat.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  da^sh  of 
Cayenne.  Chop  the  celery  fine  and  mix 
with  the  crab  meat.  Place  on  a  dish  In 
pyramidal  shape  and  pour  over  niajly  a 
Sauce  a  la  Mayonnaise.  (See  recipe.) 
Garnish  tastefully  with  sliced  hard-boiled 
eggs,  sliced  beets,  asparagus  or  celery 
tips  on  top  and  around  with  sprig-^  of 
parsley  and  asparagus  tips,  with  sliced 
lemon  and  sliced  hard-boiled  egg  a  'e;-- 
nating.  This  is  a  delicious  salad. 
Crab  Salad— No.  2. 
Crabes  en   Salade. 

1    Dozen    Large    Crabs. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   French    Vinegsr. 

1  Saltspoonful  Salt.     1  Head  LettU' e. 
Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Pick  the  boiled  crab  carefully,  V  *ep- 
ing  the  pieces  as  large  as  possible.  Lay 
in  a  salad  bowl.  Mix  a  dressing  of  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  one  o. 
French  vinegar,  one  saltspoon  of  salt, 
black  pepper  and  Cayenne,  according  to 
taste,  and  pour  over  the  crabs,  which 
have  been  cooled  in  the  ice  box.  Clean 
the  lettuce  well  and  put  a  row  of  crisp 
leaves  around  the  edge  of  the  salad  dish. 
Garnish  nicely  with  sliced  lemon  and 
hard-boiled  eggs  sliced. 

Crab  Fie. 

Vol-au-Vent    de    Crabes. 

1  Dozen   Large  Crabs. 

Sliced  Stale  Bread. 

Butter.     Milk.     Cayenne.     Salt. 

Boil     according    to     recipe     one     dozen 

fine,    large    Crabs    and    pick    out    all   the 

meat.     Season   nicely   with   salt,    Cayenne 

and   chopped   thyme  and  bay  leaf.    Take 

stale   bread   and   slice   very  thin.     Lay  In 


43 


a,  little  milk  to  moisten.  Butter  a  baking 
pan  and  cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer 
of  bread.  Then  put  in  a  .ayer  of  crab 
meat  and  lay  over  at  intervals  slices  of 
lemon  cut  very  fine  and  thin.  Dot  here 
and  there  with  bits  of  butter,  and  then 
spread  over  another  layer  of  bread.  Then 
another  layer  of  crabs,  and  repeat  till 
the  meat  is  used  up.  Lay  on  top  a  thick 
sprinkling  of  bread  crumbs,  dotted  with 
butter.  Place  in  the  oven  and  bake  for 
about  twenty  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Soft-Shell    Crabs. 

Crabes  Mous. 

The  Soft-Shell  Crab  has  always  been 
considered  a  great  luxury  in  New  Or- 
leans, where  its  possibilites  as  a  most 
delicate  and  savory  dish  were  first  dis- 
covered. Northern  epicures,  quick  to 
appreciate  the  toothsome  morsel,  re- 
turned to  their  homes  loud  in  their 
praises  of  this  Creole  discovery.  The 
Soft-Shell  Crab  is  now  being  shipped 
North,  and  is  a  popular  feature  of  the 
Northern  markets,  though  the  prices 
range  very  high.  It  is  said  that  the  Crab 
is  so  delicate  that  it  does  not  stand  ship- 
ment very  well;  sudden  stopping  of  the 
express  car  often  kills  them;  a  clap  of 
thunder  will  frighten  them  to  death, 
while  a  sunbeam  through  glass  will  kill 
every  one  it  shines  upon.  The  Soft-Shell 
Crab  is  found  the  year  round  in  the  New 
Orleans  French  Market.  This  Crab  is  at 
its  best  when  prepared  according  to  the 
following    Creole   methods: 

Fried    Soft-SheU    Crabs. 

Crabes    Mous    Frites. 

1  Dozen  S'oft-Shell  Crabs. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.     Bread  Crumbs. 

Salt,    Pepper   and    Cayenne   to    Taste. 

The  greatest  care  must  be  taken  in 
preparing  and  cleaning  the  Crab.  Wash 
carefully,  remO'Ving  all  sand,  but  do  not 
scald  or  blanch  thena,  as  this  destroys 
the  fine  flavor  completely.  Remove  the 
spongy,  feathery  substances  under  the 
side  points.  These  are  called  the  "man- 
eaters,"  and  are  very  irritating  and  indi- 
gestible. Remove  also  the  sand  bag  or 
"sand  pouch"  from  under  the  shells  just 
between  the  eyes;  also  remove  the 
"tatalier"  or  "apron."  Then  wash  well  in 
cold  water  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel. 
Take  a  pint  of  milk  and  season  well  with 
pepper  and  salt;  season  the  crabs  and 
crack- them  in  the  milk,  rubbing  thor- 
oughly, so  that  the  milk  may  thoroughly 
impregnate  them.  Take  out  and  roll  in 
a  little  sifted  flour.  Pat  lightly  with 
the  hand,  shake  off  superfluous  flour 
and  fry  in  boiling  grease,  being  always 
careful  to  have  sufficient  grease  In  the 
pan  for  the  crabs  to  swim  in  it.  When 
a  delicate  golden  brO'Wn,  take  out  of  th3 
grease  with  a  skimmer.  Drain  on  a  piece 
of  heated  brown  paper,  and  serve  on  a 
bed  of  fried  parsley,  with  garnishes  of 
sliced  lemon.  Serve  with  "Sauce  a  la 
Tartare."     (See  recipe.) 

Broiled    Soft-Shell    Crabs. 
Crabes  a  la  Creole. 

1  Dozen  Soft-Shell  Crabs. 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour,  Sifted. 

Butter.     Sliced    Lemon. 

Parsley    Garnish. 

It  was  a  celebratnd  New  Orleans  chef 
who  first  decided  t'»  broil  the  Soft-STicll 
Crab.  His  success  was  great  and  'Crabes 
a  la  Creole"  were  in  great  demand  at 
once  at  the  hotels  and  restaurants.  To 
broil  the  Soft-Shell   Crab  always  use  the 


double  wire  broiler.  Clean  the  crab  ac- 
cording to  the  method  given  above  and 
wash  in  cold  watfr.  Dry  with  a  clean 
towel  and  season  T/ell.  Season  a  pint  of 
milk  with  salt  a -id  black  pepper,  and 
soak  the  crabs  in  it  so  as  to  thoroughly 
impregnate  them  with  the  milk.  Then 
pat  lightly  with  a  little  flour  and  brush 
over  with  melted  butter.  Place  between 
the  broiler  and  broU  till  a  delicate  brown 
over  a  slow  fire.  It  will  generally  re- 
quire about  fifteen  minutes  to  cook  thor- 
oughly. Serve  on  a  platter,  nicely  gar- 
nished with  pars' ey,  sprigs  and  lemon 
cut  in  quarters.  Pour  over  the  craba 
a  little  melted  bu'iter  and  chopped  pars- 
ley, and  yo-u  "will  have  a  famous  Creola 
dish. 

CBAWPISH. 

Des    Kcrevisses. 

Besides  the  famous  Crawfish  Bisque 
(Bisque  d'Ecrevisses.  See  recipe)  the 
Creoles  have  dainty  ways  of  serving  this 
typical  Louisiana  shell  fish.  Among  the 
most  popular  are  the  following: 

Boiled    Crawfish. 

Des   Ecrevisses   Bouilles. 
50  Crawfish.     1  Gallon  of  Water. 

1  Herb   Bouquet. 
Half   Gallon   of   French  Vinegar. 

Put  the  water  on  to  boil,  adding  the 
chopped  herb  bouquet,  one  clove  of  garlic 
(chopped  fine),  one  dozen  allspice  and 
six  cloves.  When  the  water  has  boiled 
long  enough  to  have  extracted  all  the 
juices  of  the  herb  bouquet,  add  white 
wine  or  the  vinegar  and  salt — enough  to 
make  it  almost  briny,  and  Cayenne 
enough  to  make  it  hot.  Then  throw  In 
the  crawfish  and  let  them  boil  about 
twenty  minutes  or  until  a  bright  red. 
Set  them  to  cool  in  their  own  water  and 
serve  on  a  platter  piled  high  in  pyra- 
midal shape,  and  garnish  nicely  with 
sprigs  of  parsley  and  sliced  lemon.  Serve 
with  salt  and  pepper,  oil  and  Chili  vine- 
gar, each  person  making  the  dressing  as 
it  suits  his   taste. 

Crawfish    Baked    a   la    Creole. 
Ecrevisses    Gratinees    a    la    Creole. 

50    Crawfish.    2    Livers. 

1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

,      2  Tablesijionfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Bouquet  O'f  Fine  Herbs. 

The  Tolks  of  2  Eggs. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

Boil  according  to  recipe  fifty  large, 
fine  Crawfish.  When  cooked,  allow  them 
to  cool  in  their  own  water.  Clean  them, 
picking  off  the  shells  and  leaving  the 
craTvfish  whole.  Take  out  all  the  small- 
est ones,  and  cut  off  the  tail  ends  of  the 
largest  and  place  with  the  small  ones; 
take  the  remainder  of  the  large  craw- 
fish and  cut  up,  and  make  a  dressing 
with  ,  two  chopped  livers,  parsley,  the 
minced  contents  of  one-half  can  of  mush- 
rooms, the  bouquet  of  fine  herbs,  con- 
sisting of  thyme,  bay  leaf,  sweet  mar- 
jorana,  etc.;  chop  a  half  dozen  shallots 
and  add  to  the  dressing,  and  season 
highly  with  Cayenne  and  salt  and  black 
pepper  to  taste.  Cut  up  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  mix  with  a  cup  of  the 
soft  portion  of  bread,  which  has  been 
wet  and  thoroughly  squeezed  of  all  wa- 
ter. Place  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
in  a  frying  pan  and  add  the  dressing 
when  it  begins  to  heat;  cook  about  ten 
minutes  and  then  place  in  the  dish  In 
which  the  crawfish  are  to  be  serve!, 
making  a  bed  of  the  dressing.  Arrange 
with    symmetry    and    grace    the    reserve 


44 


crawfish  upon  this  bed ;  cover  lightly 
with  the  rest  of  the  stuffing,  and  dot 
with  small  bits  of  butter,  after  sprinkling 
w^ith  grated  bread  crumbs.  Poiir  over 
all  a  Cream  Sauce  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Place  in  the  oven  and  let  it  bake 
about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve 
with  Cream  Sauce,  seasoned  with  lemon 
juice.  fSee  recipe  Cream  Sauce.) 
A  Crawfish  Bush. 
Buisson    d'Ecrevisses. 

100    Fine    Crawfish.     Celery    Tips. 
Asparagus    Tips.     Parsley     Tips. 

This  is  a  celebrated  Creole  hora 
•d'oeuvre,  as  also  a  very  handsome  and 
graceful  table  garnish.  BO'il  the  Craw- 
fish ac^.ording  to  recipe.  (See  recipe.) 
Take  a  glass  fruit  or  cake  stand  and 
place  in  the  center  of  the  table.  Set  a 
goblet  upon  it.  Fit  the  goblet  with  celery 
tips  and  parsley  tips,  and  hang  a  number 
of  Crawfish  gracefully  around  the  goblet 
from  the  rim  or  outer  edges.  Continue 
hanging  the  dish  with  celery,  asparagu? 
and  parsley  tips,  and  hanging  the  Craw- 
fish around  the  edges  of  the  fruit  stand, 
and  in  and  out  amid  the  greenery.  The 
effect  of  the  red  amid  the  green  is  very 
pretty,  presenting  the  appearance  of  a 
beautiful  bush  cf  red  and  green.  The 
Crawfish  are  served  from  the  bush. 

TURTLE. 

De    La    Tortue. 
In    addition    to   the    delicious   soups    al- 
ready    given,     the     Creoles     serve     turtle 
after   the    following   manner: 

Green    Turtle    Steaks. 

Filets   de    Tortue. 

2    Pounds    of    Turtle    Steaks. 


2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste.     Sliced  Lemon 

and    Parsley    to    Garnish. 
Currant   Jelly   Sauce   or    Sauce   Poivrade. 

Select  the  female  Turtle,  as  the  meat 
is  best.  If  bought  alive  from  the  market 
clean  according  to  recipe.  (See  recipe  for 
cleaning  turtle.  Otherwise  the  butcher 
may  prepare  it,  as  is  frequently  done  in 
the   New   Orleans   market.) 

Turtle  meat  is  very  irregular,  there- 
fore cut  the  meat  into  thick  slices  or 
.steaks,  about  the  size  of  a  filet  of  bee', 
and  batter  down  with  the  hands  tc  make 
smooth  and  regular.  Then  fry  in  butter. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  arid 
garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon,  and 
serve  w^ith  Currant  Jelly  Sauce  or  the 
delightful  Sauce  Poivrade.     (See  recipes.) 

Stewed   Turtle. 

Ragout    de    Tortue    a    la    Bourgeoise. 

2  Pounds  of  Turtle  Meat.    1  Onion. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter    or    Lard. 

1  Tablespc-onful  of  Flour. 

\   Bay  Leaf.     1   Clove  of  Garlic.    1  Sprig 

of  Thyme. 

1   Cup    of   Water. 

A  Wineglassful  of  Sherry  or  Madeira. 

Cut  the  meat  of  the  Turtle  about  .in 
inch  in  size.  Chop  an  onion  and  put  all 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
lard  to  brown.  As  it  begins  to  brown, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  bay 
leaf,  one  clove  of  garlic  and  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  choppe.d  very  fine.  Mix  this  thor- 
oughly with  the  turtle  meat,  then  add  a 
wineglassful  of  Sherry  or  Madeira,  and 
a  cup  of  water,  and  eo-ok  for  half  an 
hour. 


CHAPTER   XL 
SALT    AND    CANNED    FISH 

Poissons  Sales. 
Halibut,  Salmon,  Fresh  Codfish,  Fresh 
Lobster,  Shad  and  other  fish  pecuUer  to 
the  Northern  and  Eastern  waters  are 
rarely  seen  on  New  Orleans  tables,  ex- 
cept in  the  great  hotels  and  restaurants, 
which  import  them.  With  these  fish,  in 
their  fresh  state,  this  book  will  not  treat. 
But  the  Salt  Codfish,  Salted  Mackerel 
and  Canned  Salmon  are  in  general  fam.- 
ily  use.  The  Salted  Mackerel  and  Cod- 
fish, indeed,  enter  very  largely  into  th« 
daily  household  economy  of  New  Or- 
leans, especially  on  fast  days,  as  also 
sardines.  The  following  recipes  are  mod- 
eled after  Creole  methods  of  preparation: 
CODFISH. 
Salted  Codfish. 
De  la  Morue. 
T'irsl,  and  above  all,  it  is  necessary  to 
"dessaler  la  MoTue,"  as  the  Creoles  put 
it,  or  to  remove  every  trace  and  appear- 
ance of  the  salt  in  which  the  fi^  has 
been  put  up.  Always  soak  the  Codfish 
at  least  overnight  or  twenty-four  hours 
before  using  in  cold  water,  changing  the 
water  as  often  as  possible,  to  assist  in 
removing  the  salt;  and  always  boil  on 
a  hc^  fire  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  be- 
fore making  into  any  of  the  following 
dishes:  B^u^^  Codfish. 

La    Morue    Bouillie. 
Codfish.     3  Dozen  Oysters. 
1     Tablespoonful      of     Butter.    1      Table- 
spoonfuls  of  Flour. 
2   Gills   of   Fresh   Cream    or   Milk. 
The    Oyster   Water. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 


Boil  the  Codfish  about  thirty  or  forty 
minutes,  after  soaking  overnight;  drain 
and  serve  with  an  Oyster  Sauce,  or  Sauce 
aux  Huitres,  prepared  as  follows:  Make 
a  Cream  Sauce  (see  recipe),  only  use,  in 
this  case,  the  slrained  juice  of  the  oyster 
to  blend  the  flour  and  butter,  and  add 
the  rich  cream  or  milk  to  make  up  the 
desired  quantity.  Scald  the  ousters  in 
their  own  water  about  three  minutes, 
and  then  add  to  the  sauce,  miixing  thor- 
oughly, seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and 
Cayenne,  using  preferably  celery  sail; 
let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve  with  the 
boiled  Codfish.  Egg  Sauce  (see  recipe) 
may  also  be  used  with  Boiled  Codfish, 
but  is  not  to  be  compared  to  the  Oyster 
Sauce. 

Fried   Codfish. 

La   Morue   Frite. 

Codfish.  1  Pint  of  Milk. 
1  Egg.  1  Cup  of  Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Parsley  and  Lemon  to  Garnish. 
Soak  the  Codfish  overnight,  and  boll 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  very  tender; 
take  out  and  cut  into  slices  of  one-inch 
thickness,  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel, 
have  ready  a  pint  of  milk,  and  season 
well  with  pepper  only;  season  the  Cod- 
fish, rubbing  a  little  black  pepper  to 
taste  and  a  dash  of  Cayenne  over  it. 
S'oak  the  fish  in  the  milk,  and  have  ready 
some  crushed  bread  crumbs  and  a  well- 
beaten  egg'  when  the  fish  is  well  soakecl, 
take  out  of  the  milk  and  dip  each  slice 
first  into  the  egg,  and  then  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  patting  lightly,  and  drop  in  to 
the  boiling  lard;    the  fish  must   swim  In 


45 


the  lard.  When  fried  a  golden  brown, 
take  out  with  a  skimmer,  drain  off  all 
fat,  and  serve  hot  on  a  bed  of  fried 
parsley,  garnished  with  sliced  lemon. 

Stewed    Codfish. 

Morue   Sautee   a   la   Lyonnaise. 

1  Dozen  Small  Potatoes,  or  Left-Over. 

Salt  Cod,  Enough  for  Six  Persons. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.    1  Dozen  White  Onions. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Flour   Blended   Witn 

Two    of    Milk. 

If  the  potatoes  are  not  the  left-over 
from  the  day  before,  wash  and  peel,  and 
also  the  c-nion;  boil  the  potatoes  till 
tender;  soak  the  fish  overnight,  and  boil 
for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Then 
cut  the  fish  into  pieces  of  about  two  or 
three  inches  in  length.  Put  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  lard  in  the  stewpan  and  lay  in 
the  potatoes  and  then  the  onions,  and 
the  Codfish  on  top;  add  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  the  whole,  and  let  it 
simmer  until  the  fish  is  well  cooked. 
Then  take  out  the  fish,  and  allow  the 
potatoes  and  onions  tc  simmer  on.  Re- 
-move  every  piece  of  bone  from  the  fish, 
and  trim  edges  nicely.  Take  another 
saucepan  and  dissolve  in  another  stew- 
pan  the  butter  and  flour,  as  directed 
above;  let  this  simmer  gently  without 
browning,  and  then  put  in  the  potatoes, 
onions  and  fish  in  the  order  given  above, 
pour  over  this  the  quart  of  cream  or 
milk;  let  it  simmer  for  about  ten  min- 
utes more  till  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil, 
and  serve  hot. 

Creamed   Codfish. 
Morue  a  la  Creme. 

3  Cups  of  Picked  Codfish. 

1  Pint  and  a  Half  of  Cream. 

The  Tolk  of  1  Egg. 

Soak  the  Codfish  overnight,  and  then 
let  it  boil  about  forty  minutes.  Then 
take  off,  scald  again  and  drain,  and 
again  scald  and  drain,  allowing  it  to 
stand  each  time  about  four  or  five  min- 
utes before  changing  the  water.  Put  one 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  fry- 
ing pan;  when  melted  add  the  flour  and 
blend,  without  browning;  then  add  the 
milk,  stirring  constantly  until  it  boils, 
and  then  add  the  fish,  seasoning  highly 
with  pepper  and  Cayenne.  Let  it  boll 
about  ten  minutes  longer,  and  take  off 
the  fire;  then  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
which  has  been  beaten  thoroughly,  and 
serve  hot,  with  plain  boiled  potatoes 
buttered. 

Codfish  Balls. 
Croquettes   de   Morue. 

2  Cups  of  Picked  Codfish. 

2  Cups    of   Mashed   Potatoes. 

1-2  Cup  of  Cream. 
Bread  Crumbs.  2  Beaten  Eggs. 
Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
Soak  the  Codfish  overnight  and  boil 
until  tender.  Pour  off  this  water,  and 
scald*  again  with  hot  water;  pick  fine, 
scald  again  and  then  drain  thoroughly, 
pressing  out  all  the  water.  Mash  the 
potatoes,  and  melt  about  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  mix  well  in  the 
potatoes.  Then  add  the  Codfish  and  mix 
thoroughly,  seasoning  with  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  a  dash 
of  Cayenne  to  taste.  Add  this  to  the 
cream,  and  again  mix.  Mold  the  Codfish 
into  round  or  oval  balls;  then  roll  in  the 
egg,  which  has  been  well  beaten,  and 
pass  through  the  bread  crumbs,  patting 
gently,  and  lay  them  In  a  frying  basket, 
If  you  have  one,  and  sink  into  the  boilin? 


lard,  having  tested  the  lieat  with  a  bit 
of  bread.  The  balls  must  swim  in  the 
lard.  Otherwise  drop  into  the  boiling 
lard.  When  a  golden  brown,  lift  out  the 
basket,  or  skim  out  the  balls  with  a 
skimmer;  drain  well  of  all  the  fat  by  lay- 
ing on  a  heated  brown  paper,  and  then 
serve  hot  on  a  dish  garnished  with  sprigs 
of  parsley.  This  quantity  will  make 
about  a  dozen  and  a  half  balls  or  cro- 
quettes. There  is  no  difference  between 
the  preparation  of  the  Codfish  Ball  and 
the  Codfish  Croquette,  the  only  differ- 
ence being  in  the  form  of  molding,  the 
croquette  being  oval  or  elongated,  in 
cylindrical  shapes,  and  the  ball  being 
molded  round  and  a  little  flattened  on 
tcp. 

Codfish   Bacalao. 
Bacalao  a  la  Vizcaina. 

1  Pound  of  Salted  Codfish. 
1    Large    Onion,    Chopped    Fine. 

1  Pint  of  Rich  Tomato  Sauce. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic,  Chonped  Fine.     Crou- 
tons. 
1  Red  Pepper. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 
Pepper    to    Taste.     6    Tomatoes. 

Thyme.     Bay  Leaf.     Parsley. 

Soak  the  Codfish  well  overnight,  and  in 
the  morning  boil  for  about  forty-five 
minutes,  until  very  tender.  WTien  you 
set  it  to  boil,  put  the  fish  first  in  cold 
water.  After  it  has  boiled  scald  again 
thoroughly,  and  pick  out  all  the  bones 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Then  prepare  a 
rich  Tomato  Sauce,  according  to  the  fol- 
lowing directions:  Take  six  large  fresh 
tomatoes,  or  a  half  can  of  toma- 
toes, and  add  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  four  sprigs  of  parsley, 
thyme  and  two  bay  yeaves,  all  chopped 
very  fine;  add  two  chopped  onions  ana 
a  clove  of  garlic,  chopped  fine,  and  which 
has  been  fried  in  a  little  butter.  Set 
the  saucepan,  with  the  sauce,  into  boil- 
ing water,  and  add  pepper  and  Cayenne 
and  a  pinch  of  salt  to  taste.  Stew  very 
gently  for  about  two  hours  or  longer, 
if  necessary.  Then  strain  the  sauce  and 
make  a  roux  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  two  of  flour;  stir  and  let  it 
brown  lightly,  and  stir  in  the  sauce.  Boil 
about  four  minutes  longer  until  rich  ana 
thick.  Then  fry  the  remaining  large 
onion  and  clove  of  garlic,  chopped  very 
fine,  in  a  gill  of  olive  oil,  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter  if  the  taste  of  the- 
oil  is  disliked,  apd  when  it  browns  add 
this  to  the  sauce  and  a  red  sweet  pepper, 
finely  chopped.  Cut  about  a  dozen  Crou- 
tons in  dice  or  diamond  shapes,  from 
thp  Fiift  part  of  the  bread,  and  fry  in 
boiling  iJrd.  Heat  a  dish,  put  the  Cod- 
fish into  it,  pour  over  the  Tomato  Sauce, 
border  the  dish  with  the  fried  Croutons, 
and  set  in  the  oven,  allowing  it  to  bake 
'  eu  or  fifteen  minutes  longer.  The  Span- 
ish red  peppers  are  the  best  fpr  this 
sauce.  Black  pepper  may  be  added  if 
desired. 

SALT   MACKEREL. 
Du„  Maquereau. 

Salt  Mackerel  is  either  boiled  or  broiled, 

and   either  method   of  cooking  according 

to    the    subjoined    recipes    makes    a   niost 

palatable  and  delicately  toothsome  dish. 

Boiled    Salt    Mackerel. 

Maquereau  Bouilli. 

2  tS'alt   Mackerel. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Butter. 

Chopped    Parsley    and    Sliced    Lemon    to 

Garnish. 


46 


Soak  the  Mackerel  overnight,  and  in 
the  morning  take  out  of  the  water,  wash 
thoroughly,  taking  off  every  portion  of 
salt,  and  wash  again.  Have  ready  a  deep 
pan  of  boiling  water;  place  the  Mackerel 
within  and  let  it  boil  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
ultes  until  done,  which  can  be  known  by 
the  flesh  beginning  to  part  from  the 
bones.  Serve  wKole  on  a  platter  gar- 
nished with  parsley.  Pour  over  the  Mack- 
erel melted  butter  and  chopped  parsley, 
and  bring  to  the  table  very  hot. 

Mackerel  boiled  or  broiled  is  a  very 
nice  breakfast  dish  on  fast  days.  Serve 
with  potatoes,  boiled  whole  or  made  into 
croquettes. 

Broiled  Mackerel. 
Maquereau  Grille. 

2   Salt   MaJckerel.    1   Cup   of   Milk. 
2   Tablespoonfuls   of   Butter   or   a   Cream 

Sliced    Lemon,    Olives    and    Parsley 
Sprigs  to  Garnish. 

Soak  the  Mackerel  and  wash  thorough- 
ly as  directed  above,  only  using  boiling 
water.  Have  ready  some  milk,  seasoned 
well  with  black  pepper,  a,nd  soak  the 
Ma;ckerel  in  the  milk  until  thoroughly 
impregnated.  Take  out  and  wipe  dry 
with  a  towel.  Then  dredge  the  Mackerel 
■with  butter,  and  place  between  a  double 
broiler,  over  a  slow  fire,  broiling  about 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  the  under  side 
being  allowed  to  broil  first.  WTien  done, 
take  off  and  pour  over  melted  butter  and 
chopped  parsley;  garnish  the  dish  with 
sprigs  of  parsley,  sliced  lemons  and 
olives,  and  serve  hot.  A  Cream  Sauce 
may  be  also  served  instead  of  the  butter, 
and  makes  a  very  delicious  dish. 

SALMON. 

Mayonnaise    de    Saumon. 

1     Can     of     Salmon.     2    Heads     of    Crisp 
Lettuce. 
1  Cup  of  Milk. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.    2  Tablespoon- 
fuls  of  Flour. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Sauce   a   la    Mayonnaise. 
A    Mayonnaise    of    Salmon    Is    a    very 
good    luncheon    dish,    and    is    frequently 
served    in   New    Orleans.     To   one   can   of 
Salmon    allow    two    good-sized    heads    of 
young  lettuce.     Make  a  bed  of  the   crisp 
hearts  of  the   leaves,  and  tear  the   other 
leaves    into    small    pieces    with    a    fork, 
making   very   delicate   shreds.     Drain   the 
oil  from  the  can  of  Salmon,  and  separate 
the    fish    into    flakes.     Take    a    cupful    of 
boiling  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter  and   two    of   flour,   and    stir  over   the 
fire    until    quite    siTiooth.     Add    to    this    a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  the 


Salmon.  Season  with  pepper  and  sajt, 
and  let  it  cook  about  ten  minutes.  Set 
aiway  to  cool,  and  then  place  on  the  bed 
of  lettuce  leaves.  Cover  with  a  Sauce  a 
la  Mayonnaise  (see  recipe),  and  garnish 
nicely  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs,  celery 
tips,  etc.,  and  serve. 

Salmon   Salad, 
Saumon  en  Sajade. 
1  Can  of  Salmon. 
1-3   the    Quantity    of   Chopped   Celery. 
2   Hard-Boiled    Eggs. 
Sliced    Lemon.     Olives.     1    Pickled    Beet 
A  Plain   French  Dressing. 
Canned    Salmon    may    be    made   into   a 
delightful    salad     for    luncheon    or    sup- 
per.    Flake  the  Salmon,  heap  into  a  salad 
bowl,  and  mix  with  chopped  celery,  using 
one-third    of   the   latter   in    proportion  to 
the    quaffitity    of    Salmon.     Add    a    Plain 
French      Dressing.     (See      recipe.)     When 
refidy    to    serve    turn    into    a    salad    dish, 
on  which  you  have  arranged  a  crisp  bed 
of    lettuce.     Garnish    with    sliced    lemon, 
olives  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  with  one 
daintily  sliced  pickled  beet. 
HEBBINGS. 
Des   Harengs. 
The   Salted   Herrings,   such   as  come  to 
New  Orleans,  must  first  of  all  be  soaked 
thoroughly   overnight,    or   longer,  to  take 
away    all    salt.    Then    they    are    cleaned 
nicely    and    broiled    and    served    with    a 
cream  sauce  or  drawn  butter  sauoe,  pref- 
erably the  former.     They  are  also  cut  into 
filets    and    eaten    without    further    cook- 
ing,  or  "Cru,"   as  we   say  here,  and  also 
as  an  hors  d'oeuvre. 

ANCHOVY. 
Des  Anchois. 
Anchovies  are  served  as  a  preliminary 
to  the  most  aristocratic  dinners,  being 
drained  of  the  oil  which  clings  to  them 
after  being  taken  from  the  can.  Three 
or  four  Anchovies  are  then  placed  be- 
tween delicate  soda  biscuits,  and  tied 
with  a  bit  of  ribbon  in  squares,  with  a 
dainty  bow  cut  short  in  the  center.  The 
effect  is  very  pretty.  The  Anchovies  are 
also  mashed  a,nd  placed  between  the 
crackers,  like  a  sandwich.  Either  way  is 
excellent  and  elegant. 

Anchovy  Salad. 
Salade  d'Anchois. 
This  salad  is  a  dainty  dish  for  lunch- 
eon or  supper.  Have  an  oval  dish  and 
arrange  the  Anchovies,  drained  of  oil, 
crosswise  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce,  or  of 
chopped  watercress.  Surround  with  a 
border  of  chopped  whites  of  eggs  and  a 
similar  border  of  chopped  watercresses, 
and  pour  over  all  a  sour  French  Dress- 
ing. (See  recipe.)  Anchovies  are  used 
as  an  elegant  hors  d'oeuvre. 


CHAPTER  Xn. 
MEATS. 

Des  Viandes. 


Meats  are,  of  course,  common  to  every 
clime  and  country,  but  not  every  people 
have  the  palatable  and  appetizing  meth- 
ods of  preparation  that  have  been  hand- 
ed down  to  the  Creoles  of  X^ouisiana  by 
their  French  and  Spanish  ancestors  and 
so  modified  and  improved  upon  that  it 
may  be  said  that  they  have  created  a 
new  school  of  cookery  in  the  choice  prep- 
aration and  serving  of  beef,  veal,  mutton, 
pork  and  venison.  Our  "roties"  or  roasts, 
our  methods  of  broiling,  our  delightful 
"ragouts,"  our  famous  "griUades,"  our 
unique   "daubes,"    in    a   word,    our    dozen 


and  one  highl>'  nutritious  and  eminently 
agreeable  combinations  of  nieats,  with 
"\'egetables,  and  our  unequaled  majiner  of 
seasoning,  have  given  to  the  Creole 
kitchen  a  fame  that  has  been  as  lasting 
as  well  deserved. 

The  Creoles  have  discovered  that  al- 
most any  portion  of  the  beet  from  the 
head  to  the  tail  may  be  delicately  and 
temptingly  prepared,  "so  as  to  please  even 
the  most  fastidious  p.Tlates,  They  have 
reduced  the  science  of  cooking  meats  to 
a  practical  system  that  works  the  most 
beneficial    effects    in    the    homes    of   the 


47 


poor,  and  which  enables  the  family  of 
modera,te  means  to  live  not  only  econom- 
ically, but  with  as  much  real  ease  and 
luxury  even  as  the  wealthy  classes. 

Bules  Which  the  Creoles  Follow  In   Cook- 
ingr  Meats. 

Always  remember  that  Beef  and  Mut- 
ton must  be  cooked  rare,  and  Pork  9.nd 
Veal  well  done. 

Beef  should  always  be  roasted,  broiled 
or   smothered. 

Mutton  may  be  roa,sted,  broiled,  boiled 
or  ste'wed. 

Veal  may  be  roasted,  stewed,  smoth- 
ered or  fried,  when  cut  into  chops. 

Pork  is  always  roasted  or  fried. 

Ham  is  broiled,  boiled  or  fried. 

Bacon  is  broiled,  fried  or  boiled,  the 
latter  when  cooked  with  vegetables. 

Venison  is  roasted  or  made  into  "rag- 
out," like  Beef  a  la  Mode,,  and  the  out- 
lets are  broiled.  The  meat  of  venison 
should  be  of  fine  grain  and  well  covered 
with  fat.  If  the  venison  is  very  young, 
the  hoofs  ate  but  slightly  opened;  if  old, 
the  hoofs  stand  wide  apart. 

With  this  preliminary  we  will  now  pre- 
sent the  various  Creole  forms  of  pre- 
paring meats. 

BEBF. 

Du  Boeuf. 

Boast    Beef. 

Boeuf  Roti. 

The  first  four  ribs  of  the  beef  are  al- 
ways the  best  for  a  roast.  The  tender- 
loin lies  here,  and  two  good  ribs  or  a 
"full  cut,"  as  the  butchers  term  it,  should 
be  enough  to  naake  a  fine  roaist  for  a 
family  of  six.  Always  remember  that  if 
the  roast  is  cut  too  thin  the  juices  dry 
too  rapidly  and  the  exquisite  flavor  is 
gone.  After  the  ribs  come  the  sirloin 
and  the  spine  bone  as  second  and  third 
choice.  Have  the  butcher  skewer  the 
roast  so  that  it  will  have  a  nice  shape 
when  it  comes  on  the  table,  apd  will  re- 
tain all  the  juice  of  the  beef.  Leave  the 
bones  in  the  roast,  as  the  meat  will  be 
far  sweeter  than  when  taken  out.  Rub 
the  meat  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  slightly  with  lard  and  set  in  a 
hot  oven.  The  heat  of  the  oven  at  once 
coagulates  the  blood  and  prevents  it 
from  escaping,  thus  rendering  the  meat 
nutritious.  Every  now  and  then  baste 
the  beef  with  its  own  juices  and  let  it 
cook,  a'ddirig  no  water,  as  sufficient  fat 
runs  from  the  beef  to  baste  with.  Al- 
low fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound  of 
meat  it  one  likes  the  meat  rare,  otherwise 
allow  twenty  minutes.  But  the  Creoles 
always  roast  beef  rare.  To  ascertain  the 
desired  state,  occasionally  stick  a  needle 
into  the  beef.  If  the  blood  spurts  up, 
the  meat  is  ready  to  serve,  and,  cooked 
to  this  point,  is  a  most  nutritious  dish. 
Watch  carefully  and  do  not  let  it  pass 
this  stage.  Serve  on  a  dish  in  its  own 
gravy. 

Filet   of   Beef   Larded. 
Filet  de  Boeuf  Pique. 

1    Filet    of   Beef. 

Lajrd  Sufficient  to  Lard  Thoroughly. 

1   Small   Onion.     1  Bay  Leaf. 

4  Cloves,  if  desired. 

1 1-2   Tablespoonfuls   of   Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Glace.     (See   recipe.) 

1   Glass    of   Madeira   or   Sherry    Wine 

(or    Water). 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Trim     the     filet     nicely,     removing    the 

outer  muscular  skin.     Lard  the  filot  well, 

using    larding    needles.     The    lard    must 


be  very  thin,  like  a  shoestring.  The  lard- 
ing is  done  by  filling  the  needles  with 
the  lard  and  pushing  them  through  the 
filet  as  far  as  they  will  go.  If  the  needles 
are  long  enough  they  will  come  out  on 
the  other  side  of  the  filet,  leaviag  the 
lard  within.  Repeat  this  process  all  down 
the  center  aJnd  along  the  sides  of  the 
filet,  about  an  inch  apa-rt,  and  have  the 
rows  neat  and  even.  If  you  have  not  a 
larding  needle,  make  incisions  with  a 
knife,  and  push  the  lard  in  with  your 
finger,  but  the  filet  is  never  as  juicy  and 
tender,  nor  does  it  look  so  clean  and 
even  when  baked.  Wlien  well'  larded, 
dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub- 
bing this  thoroughly  into  the  beef.  Cut 
up  one  small  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  and 
mash  four  cloves,  and  place  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  baking  pan.  Lay  the  larded 
filet  on  this  bed,  the  larded  side  being 
uppermost.  Put  small  bits  of  butter  equal 
to  a  half  taiblespoonful  on  top,  ajnd  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  thirty  minutes.  This 
dish  is  always  eaten_  rare.  To  ascertain 
if  sufficiently  done,  stick  a  fork  into  the 
filet;  if  the  blood  bubbles  out,  it  is  ready 
to  serve.  The  meat  when  done  is  always 
spongy   and   elastic  to   the  touch. 

In  the  meantime  prepajre  the  follow- 
ing brown  sauce:  Take  one  talalespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  one  of  Glace  (see  recipe 
under  chapter  "Sauces  for  Meats,  Fish, 
etc."),  and  three  of  water;  rub  smooth- 
ly and  melt  in  a  saucepan,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  burning.  When 
brown  add  one  glass  of  Madeira  or  Sher- 
ry wine  and  add  a  half  cup  of  water. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour 
over  the  filet,  which  must  be  placed  in 
a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

Filet    of   Beef    liarded    With    Mushrooms. 

Filet   de   Boeuf  Pique  aux   Champignons. 

1  Filet  of  Beef. 
1-2    Can    of    Mushrooms. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Trim  and  lard  the  beef  according  to 
the  directions  given  in  the  above  recipe, 
and  bake  in  the  saane  manner — rare. 
When  it  has  cooked  for  a  half  hour  in 
a  quick  oven,  it  wil  be  done.  Then  make 
a  sauce  as  follows:  Take  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  one  of  Glace  and  three 
of  water;  melt  the  butter  and  add  the 
Glace,  browning  nicely  without  burning, 
and  stirring  constantly.  When  brown 
add  one  glass  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  wine, 
if  desired,  and  one-half  pint  of  water. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
add  a  half  can  of  mushrooms,  chopped 
very  fine.  Stir  well  and  let  it  boil  about 
ten  minutes,  so  ais  not  to  be  too  thick 
nor  yet  too  thin.  The  intelligent  cook 
will  judge  by  tasting  to  see  that  it  is 
seasoned  properly.  Place  the  filet  in  a 
hot  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  and 
serve  hot. 

Filet    of  Beef    With   Truffles. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  Pique  aux  Truffes  ou  a  la 
Perigeux. 

1  Filet  of  Beef.    1-4  Can  of  Truffles. 

1-2  Glass  of  Sherry.    1  Pint  of  Broth  or 

Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the 
preparation  of  Filet  of  Beef  Larded. 
When  it  has  baked  for  a  half  hour  make 
a  sauce  as  follows:  One  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Glace  (see  recipe  under 
chapter  "Saueos  for  Meats,  Fish,  etc.") 
and  add  a  half  Tyineglass  of  Sherry  and 
one  pint  of  broth  or  water.  Let  it  boil 
slowly  for  ten  minutes,  and  add  one-half 


48 


can  of  truffles,  chopped  very  fine,  if  a 
la  Perigeaux;  it  aux  truffes,  cut  in  dice. 
Let  the  sauce  boil  slowly  twenty  min- 
utes longer,  and  then  pour  over  the  filet, 
serving  hot. 

Broiled    Beefsteak. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  Grille. 

3  Pounds  of  Steak  for  Broiling  Purposes. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.     The  Juice 

of   1    Lemon. 

Chopped  Parsley  and   Lettuce   Leaves   to 

Garnish. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

The  cut  known  as  the  "Porterhouse 
Steak"  is  unquestionably  the  best  for 
broiling.  The  next  in  order  is  the  sir- 
loin, where  there  are  always  choice  cuts, 
but  the  entire  sirloin  is  not  profitable 
for  broiling  and  the  coarse  ends  may  be 
used  in  making  stews,  gumbos,  etc.  There 
is  an  art  in  broiling  a  beefsteak  properly, 
and  the  Creoles  have  certainly  attained 
this  in  its  perfection.  The  broiler-  in  a 
well-regulated  household  is  always  put 
on  a  furnace  of  hot  charcoals  in  prefer- 
ance  to  the  open  front  of  the  stove.  The 
coals  not  only  render  the  meat  free  from 
any  deleterious  effects,  should,  by  an\ 
chance,  the  meat  not  be  from  a  perfectly 
healthy  animal,  but  the  broiling  over  the 
coals  gives  the  meat  a  flavor  one  vainly 
seeks  otherwise.  Dredge  the  meat  well 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  then  brush 
lightly  with  butter.  Place  it  on  the  hot 
gridiron  and  let  it  broil  quickly  for  four 
minutes;  then  turn  on  the  other  side  for 
four  minutes  longer.  When  done  take 
oft,  plajce  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  nicely  and 
sprinkle  chopped  parsley  over,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serve  immediately. 
Smothered  Beefsteak. 
Filet    Braise. 

Braising  or  smothering  meat  is  a  mode 
ot  cooking  little  understood  by  the 
Americans,  but  which  has  been  brought 
by  the  Creoles  to  a  high  state  of  per- 
fection. By  this  process  the  meat  is  Just 
covered,  and  no  more,  with  a  little 
water,  or  with  a  strong  broth  made  from 
anim£i  stock  or  the  juices  of  vegetables. 
The  pot  is  covered  with  a  closely-fitting 
lid  and  is  put  on  a  slow  fire  and  allowed 
to  simmer  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours, 
just  short  of  the  boiling  point.  By  this 
slow  process  of  cooking,  tough  meats  are 
rendered  juicy,  tender  and  very  agree* 
able  to  the  palate,  while  the  covered  pot 
enables  the  meat  to  retain  all  its  flavor. 

The  great  secret  in  smothering  meat 
is  to  let  it  cook  very  slowly,  simmering, 
however,  all  the  time,  so  that  the  heat 
may  thoroughly  penetrate  and  render 
tender  and  juicy  the  coarse  fiber  of  the 
meat.  When  tender,  put  the  beefsteak 
into  a  platter,  cover  with  the  onions  and 
gra\'y,  and  you  will  ha\'e  a  delicious  and 
delicately    flavored    dish. 

Beefsteak    Smothered    in    Onions. 
Filet  Braise  aux   Ognons. 

3  Pounds  of  Round   Steak. 

6  Onions,  sliced  fine.    1  Tablespoonful  of 

Lard. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

2   Tablespoontuls   of   Vinegar. 

2  Sprigs   Bach   of   Thyme  and   Bay   Leaf. 

3  Sprigs  ot  Parsley. 

1  Clove  ot  Garlic. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

Pepper  and  Salt  to  Taste. 

Beat  the  Round  Steak  well  with  the 
rolling  pin  or  steak  hammer;  cut  off  the 
outer  skin  and  press  the  meat  back  into 
shape.     Place    the    tablespoonful    ot    lard 


in  the  deep  trying  pan  ana  let  it  melt 
Then  lay  in  the  sliced  onions,  and  over 
these  the  beefsteak,  which  has  been  well 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
dredged  with  the  flour.  Cover  closely. 
Let  it  simmer  over  a  hot  fire  for  a  few 
minutes  and  then  turn  the  steak  on  the 
other  side.  After  three  minutes  add  two 
tablespoontuJs  of  vinegar,  chopped  pars- 
ley, thyme  and  bay  leaf  and  a  clove  of 
garlic.  Turn  the  steak,  letting  the  flour 
brown  well,  and  keep  the  pot  closely 
covered.  WTien  brown  pour  over  one  cup 
of  water,  or  a  pint,  which  will  be  suffi- 
cient to  cover  the  meat.  Bring  this  to 
a  brisk  boil  and  set  the  pot  back  where 
it  can  simmer  gently  for  about  two 
hours. 

Filets  of  beef  may  be  smothered  in  the 
same  manner,  only  these  will  require  no 
beating  with   the   steajc   hammer. 

Filet  of  Beef  Smothered  With  Mnshrooms 
or  Truffles. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  Braise  aux  Champignons, 
ou    aux    Truffes. 

1  Filet  of  Beef. 

1  Can     of    Mushrooms     or    1-2    Can    of 

Truffles. 
6   Onions,   sliced  fine. 
1   Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 
1  Tablespoonful  ot  Flour. 

2  Sprigs  Each   ot  Thyme  and  Bay   Leaf. 

1  Clove   ot  Garlic. 

1    Pint    ot    Hot    Water. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

Smother  the  Beef,  using  a  filet  for  this 
delicious  dish,  according  to  the  recipe 
given  for  Smothered  Beefsteak.  After  it 
has  cooked  about  a  half  hour  add  one 
can  of  mushrooms  and  let  it  continue  to 
simmer  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half 
longer.  When  ready  to  serve  add,  if  pos- 
siJble,  a  gill  or  a  smaiU  wineglass  of 
Sherry  or  White  AVine;  boil  ten  minutes 
longer.  Put  the  filet  in  a  dish,  place  the 
mushrooms  over  and  around  as  a  gar- 
nish, pour  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 

If  truffles  are  used  instead  of  the 
mushrooms,  add  one-half  can  and  pro- 
ceed in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  when 
using  the  mushrooms. 

Filet  of  Beef  With  Tomatoes. 

Filet    de    Boeuf   Braise   aux   Tomates. 

1  Filet  of  .Beef.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 
6     Onions,     sliced     fine.    1    Clove    of 

Garlic. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

2  Sprigs  Each   ot  Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf. 

3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1-2    Can   of    Tomatoes    or   6   Large   Fresh 

Ones. 

1  Pint  ot  Hot  Water. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

Smother  the  tilet  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  already  described.  When 
cooked  for  about  a  half  hour,  add  one- 
half  can  ot  tomatoes  and  their  Juice,  or 
six  large  fresh  tomatoes  sliced  in  their 
Juice.  Let  tlie  mixture  simmer  for  an 
hour  and  ai  halt  longer,  season  well  and 
serve,  pouring  the  gravy  over  the  filet 
Filet  of  Beef  With  Stuffed  Tomntoes. 
Filet    Braise    aux    Tomates    Farcies. 

1    Filet    of    Beef. 

1  Dozen  Uniform-Sized  Tomatoes. 

1  Cup  of  Mushrooms.     1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1-2   Cup   ot   Stale   Bread   Crumbs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Smother  the  filet  according  to  the  di- 
rections given  above,  adding  two  chopped 
tomajtoes   to   the   sauce.    Take  the   toma- 


49 


toes  and  cut  off  the  stem  end,  scoop  out 
the  soft  inside,  being  careful  to  retain 
the  sltins  in  proper  shape.  Then  take 
a  hall  cup  of  mushrooms,  one-half  cup 
of  stale  bread  crumbs,  which  have  been 
wet  and  squeezed,  one  clove  of  garlic, 
chopped  very  fine,  and  one  grated  onion, 
a  sprig  of  chopped  parsley.  Chop  the 
mushrooms  fine,  place  a  taiblespoonful 
of  butter  into  a  frying  pan,  and,  when 
melted,  add  the  bread  crumbs,  which 
'  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  Cayenne,  and  mixed  thoroughly  with 
the  chopped  onion  or  garlic  and  the  pars- 
ley. "VVhen  these  begin  to  fry  add  the 
chopped  mushrooms,  stirring  conrstantly 
for  aibout  five  or  eight  minutes.  Serve 
with  Stuffed  Tomatoes   (see  recipe). 

Beef   u   la   Mode. 

Daube. 

5  Pounds   of  the  Rump  or  the  Round  of 

Beef. 

1-4  Pound  of  Salt  Fat. 

Large  Onions.     2  Turnips.      5  Carrots. 

1  Tablespoonful   of   Liard. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1    Glass    of    Sherry,    Madeira    or    Claret 

(if    desired). 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  ta  Taste. 

2  Bay  Leaves. 

Sprigs  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

Cut  the  fat  of  the  salt  meat  into  thin 
shreds.  Chop  the  onion  and  ibay  leaf 
very  fine,  as  also  the  garlic,  thyme  and 
cloves.  Rub  the  shreds  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Take  the  rump  of  beef  and 
lard  thickly  by  making  incisions  aibout 
three  or  four  inches  in  length  and  in- 
serting the  pieces  of  salt  fat  and  spices. 
onion  and  thyme  and  garlic,  mixed  thor- 
oughly. Take  two  large  onions  and  cut 
into  quarters  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Let  the  slices 
brown  and  then  lay  on  top  the  rump  of 
beef,  well  larded.  Cover  closely  and  let 
it  simmer  very  slowly  till  well  browned. 
Then  add  the  chopped  bay  leaf  and  pars- 
ley. "WTien  brown  add  five  carrots  cut 
into  squares  of  an  inch,  and  two  turnips, 
cut  in  the  same  manner,  and  two  large 
onions,  chopped  fine.  Let  the  whole 
brown,  keeping  well  covered,  and  cooking 
.slowly  over  a  slow  but  regular  fire.  Be 
always  careful  to  keep  the  cover  very 
tight  on  the  pot.  When  it  has  simmered 
about  ten  minutes,  turn  the  daube  on  the 
other  side,  cover  closely  and  let  it  sim- 
mer ten  minutes  more.  Then  cover  with 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  the 
daube;  or,  better  still,  if  you  have  it, 
use  instead  of  the  water  boiling  "con- 
somme" or  "pot-au-feu,"  and,  if  possible, 
a  glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine;  or, 
if  you  have  neither  of  these,  which  are 
always  to  be  preferred  in  cooking  meats, 
a  glass  of  good  Claret.  Season  according 
taste  with  salt,  Cayenne  and  black  pep- 
per. Cover  the  pot  tight  and  set  it  back 
on  the  stove,  letting  it  smother  slowly 
for  about  three  hours,  or  until  tender. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Cold    Daube    a   la    Creole. 

Daube  Froide  a  la  Creole. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  excellent  dishes 
made  by  the  Creoles,  and  is  always  a 
great  standby  for  luncheons  in  winter. 
Take 

3  Pounds  of  the  Rump  or  Round   of  the 

Beef. 

2  Pounds   of  Veal   Rump. 

2  Pig's  Feet.  1-4  pound  of  Salt  Pat  Meat. 

5  Jjarge  Onions.     2  Turnips. 


5    Carrots.     2    Cloves    of    Garlic.    3    Bay 

Leaves. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

1  Glass  of  Sherry. 

3   Sprigs   of  Thyme   and  Parsley. 

Salt,    Pepper   and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

Cut  the  salt  meat  into  shreds,  roll  well 
in  Cayenne  and  black  pepper.  Chop  finely 
several  sprigs  of  thyme  and  three  bay 
leaves,  one  clove  of  garlic,  three  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  mash  well  three  cloves 
and  six  allspice.  Roll  the  strips  of  salt 
meat,  which  must  be  about  three  inches 
in  length  and  one-half  inch  thick,  in  this. 
Make  incisions  into  the  rump  of  meat 
and  force  in  the  strips  of  fat  meat  and 
the  spices.  Then  rub  the  whole  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  Judging  according  to 
taste  and  proceed  to  cook  according  to  the 
recipe  for  Beef  a  lai  Mode.  Let  the  Daube 
cook  about  four  hours  when  you  intend 
to   serve   it  cold. 

In  the  meantime,  in  another  pot,  place 
a  veal  steak  of  about  two  pounds,  and 
two  pig's  feet.  Season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  Cayenne,  and  cover  well  with 
four  quarts  of  water,  and  let  them  boil. 
Add  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  of  thyme, 
one-half  clove  of  garlic  and  one  onion, 
all  minced  very  fine,  and  two  cloves 
mashed  into  almost  a'  jelly,  and  one  glass 
of  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine.  Let  these 
boil  well  with  the  veal  and  pig's  feet. 
Then,  when  the  veal  and  pig's  feet  are 
cooked  very  tender,  take  them  out  of  the 
pot  and  mince  tb"  meat  of  eajch  very 
fine;  return  to  the  sauce,  and  again 
season  highly,  according  to  taste,  for 
the  flavor  depends  upon  the  piquant 
seasoning.  After  the  daube  has  cooked 
foiir  or  five  hours,  take  off  the  stove 
and  pour  over  the  sauce  and  set  all  in  a 
cool  plape.  Serve  the  next  day — cold, 
cutting  into  thin  slices.  It  will  all  have 
formed  a  jelly  that  is  most  delicious  and 
appetizing. 

Beef    Marine. 
Boeuf  Marine. 
4    Pounds    of    Beef,    froni    the    Round    oi 
Shoulder. 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 
3   Bay   Leaves.    1   Onion.     1  Lemon. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Vinegar. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  Each  of  Ground   Cloves, 
Mace  and  Allspice. 
Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
The   "brisket"    of   the   beef   is   excellent 
for  this,   as  also  the   "breast-plate."     Mix 
the    spices,    salt    and    pepper    thoroughly 
and  rub  we'll  into  both  sides  of  the  beef. 
Chop  the  onions  fine,  and  cover  the  meat 
with  them.     Then  mix  the  oil  and  vinegar 
and    the    juice    of    one    lemon,    and    pour 
this  over  the  meat.     Set  it  in  the  ice  box, 
or    a   cool    place,    and    let   it   stand   over- 
night.    Then  put  it  into  the  stewpan,  and 
be  careful  to  retain  all  the  juices  of  the 
spices.     Set  on  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer 
ten     minutes,     adding     the     bay     leaves, 
chopped    very    fine.     Then    add    a    table- 
spoonful   of   flour,    rolled    smoothly    in    a 
half  teaspoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  melted. 
Let  this  brown,  and  then  half  cover  the 
meat    with     boiling    water,     using     good 
judgment.     Cover  closely  and  set   on  the 
oven,    letting    the    beef    cook    two    hours, 
and  turning  once,  so  thart.  both  sides  may 
be    well    penetrated    by    the    heat.     Serve 
on   a   hot   dish,    pouring   the   gravy   over. 
This  is  a  very  old-fashioned  dish. 

Fried    Meat. 

La   Viande    Frite. 

Frying    among   the    Creoles    is    done    in 

several  ways.     The  first  and  the  method 

most  generally  adopted  in  households   Is 


50 


to  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  an 
ounce,  as  the  quajitity  of  meat  to  cook 
may  seem  to  require,  into  a  frying  pan. 
When  the  lard  has  reached  the  boiling- 
point  lay  in  the  meat  and  cook  first  on 
one  side,  then  on  the  other,  to  a  nice 
brown.  The  second  method  is  that  in 
use  among  the  Creole  chefs,  restaura- 
teurs, and  in  the  homes  of  the  wealthier 
classes;  the  meat  is  completely  immersed 
In  the  boiling  lard  as  in  frying  fish  or 
doughnuts.  The  intense  heat  quickly 
closes  up  the  pores  of  the  meat,  and  a 
brown  crust  is  formed;  the  heat  of  the 
lard  should  be  such  that  a  piece  of  bread 
dropped  into  it  becomes  brown  instantly. 
The  lard  should  never  be  smoking.  This 
ruins  the  meat  and  gives  a  burnt  flavor. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  smoke  remove 
the  frying  pan  to  the  side  of  the  stove, 
but  still  keep  it  at  the  boiling  point.  The 
half -frying  method  mentioned  aibove  is, 
however,  the  one  most  generally  in  use, 
and  if  foUoTved  properly,  excellent  re- 
sults are  obtained ;  indeed,  many  Creole 
chefs  prefer  it.  There  is  another  method 
that  is  very  generally  used,  and  w^hich 
imparts  a  flavor  similar  to  that  of 
broiled  meat.  This  is  to  lay  the  meat  in 
a  thick-bottomed  frying  pan  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Brown  the  meat 
quickly  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the 
other;  lay  in  a  hot  platter  and  season 
as  you  would  broiled  meat. 

Fried   Meat. 

Grillade. 

The  round  of  the  meat  is  always  se- 
lected for  Grillades,  and  one  steak  will 
serve  six  persons.  The  steak  is  cut  into 
pieces  of  about  six  or  eight  squa^res,  and 
each  piece  is  called  a  "grillade."  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  rubbing  these 
into  the  meat  thoroughly  atid  letting  It 
soak  well  into  the  fibers.  Have  ready  a 
hot  pan.  and  place  within  a  tablespoonful 
of  lard,  and,  when  hot,  a  sliced  onion  and 
one  clove  of  garlic,  chopped  very  fine. 
Let  this  brown,  and  then  add  one 
chopped  tomato.  Place  the  Grillades  In 
this,  letting  them  soak  thoroughly.  Cover 
with  a  tight  cover,  and  set  back,  letting 
them  fry  slowly,  so  as  to  absorb  all  the 
lard  and  juices.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish, 
when  brown,  with  garnishes  of  parsley. 
This  is  the  recipe  for  making  Grillages 
without  gravy.  Some  also  fry  simply  in 
the  boiling  lard,  using  only  a  half  ta- 
blespoonful, and  letting  it  soak  and  ab- 
sorb thoroughly  after  being  well  sea- 
soned.    This  is  a  matter  of  taste. 

Grillades    With    Gravy. 

Grillades  a  la  Sauce. 

1  Round  Steak. 

1  Tomato.     1  Large  Onion. 

Sajlt   and    Pepper. 

Select  a  nice  round  steak  and  bea\ 
well.  Cut  into  grillades"  of  about  four 
inches  square  and  season  highly  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  Cayenne.  Put'a  ta- 
blespoonful of  lard  into  the  frying  pan, 
and  when  it  heats,  add  a  chopped  onion, 
one  clove  of  garlic;  and  as  these  brown, 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  making 
a  Brown-  Roux.  (See  recipe  under  chap- 
ter "Sauces  for  Meats,  Fish,  etc").  Then 
add  two  tomatoes,  sliced,  with  their 
juices,  and  as  this  browns  lay  the  gril- 
lades upon  it.  Cover  closely,  and  a«  it 
browns  on  one  side,  turn  on  the  other. 
Then  add  a  half  tablespoonful  of  vinegar 
and  a  cup  of  water.  Stir  well  and  set 
back  on  the  stove  and  let  it  sinimer 
slowly  for  about  a  half  hour.  This  Is 
very   nice  served   with   hominy   at  break- 


fast,   or    with    red    or    white    beains    and 
boiled   rice   at   dinner. 

Again,  the  Grillades  a  la  Sauce  are 
made  by  frying  the  grillades,  after  sea- 
soning well,  pimply  in  half  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  boiling  lard.  The  lard  must  al- 
ways be  boiling,  so  that  the  meat  juices 
may  at  once  coagulate.  After  they  are 
browned  nicely  on  both  sides,  take  the 
grillades  out  of  the  frying  pan  and  set 
in  a  hot  dish  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water 
and  cover.  Have  an  onion  chopped  finCf 
put  half  a  tablespoonful  of  laffd  into  the 
frying  pan,  stirring  w^ell  to  detach  all 
particles  of  meat  that  may  have  ad- 
hered. Then  add  a  chopped  onion  and 
brown,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  or 
Glace  (see  recipe  under  cha,pter  "Sauces 
for  Meats,  Fish,  etc.")  and  let  this  brown. 
Pour  in  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and 
a  cup  of  water,  season  well  with  salt, 
pepper  and  Cayenne,  and  let  it  boil  till 
it  reaches  a  right  consistency,  which 
will  be  in  about  ten  minutes.  Pour  over 
the  grillades.  and  serve. 

Grillades  Breaded 

Grillades   Panees. 

1  Round   of  Veal. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

1  Beaten  Egg.     1-2  Cup  of  Bread  Crumbs. 

Salt.   Pepper  and  Cayenne. 

The  round  of  the  veal  is  always  used 
for  this.  Cut  the  veal  into  squares  of 
about  four  inches;  season  vrell  with  salt, 
pepper  and  Cayenne.  Beat  an  egg  well 
and  take  each  grillade  and  soak  well  in 
the  egg,  and  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs 
grated.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling 
grease,  sufficient  for  the  grillades  to 
swim  in  it ;  fry  to  a  nice  brown  and 
serve  very  hot. 

Left-Over     Meat. 

Left-over  meat  may  be  utilized  in  many 
delightful  ways,  such  as  "Boulettes,'* 
"Boulards,"  "Croquettes,"  "Rissoles," 
"Meat  Souffle"  and  various  forms  of 
Hash.  The  following  are  the  forms  of 
preparation  in  use  among  the  Creoles: 

Meat  Balls. 

Boulettes. 

1  Pound  of   Raw   or  Left-Over   Meat. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Butter.     1    Onion. 

The  Juice  of  a  Lenion. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Take  one  pound  of  steak  from  the  up- 
per round  and  mince  and  chop  very  fine. 
Add  to  it  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  one  onion  (well  grated),  one  table- 
spoonful of  melted  butter,  and  mixed 
salt,  black  pepper  and  Cayenne,  season- 
ing highly;  mix  all  thoroughly.  Form 
the  meat  into  balls,  using  about  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  for  each,  which  will  allow 
six  or  eight  balls  or  boulettes.  Have* 
ready  a  deep  frying  pan  of  lard,  suffi- 
cient for  the  boulettes  to  swim  and  fry 
to  a  nice  brown.  Take  out  and  drain  of 
all  grease,  place  on  a  hot  platter  and 
garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

The  same  directions  may  be  used  In 
making  croquettes  of  meat,"  only  the  lat- 
ter are  formed  into  cylindrical  shapes. 
If  fried  in  butter,  the  boulettes.  or  cro- 
quettes, are  very  delicious,  but  they  are 
nice  either  way  if  well  seasoned,  for  their 
success   depends   upon   this. 


51 


Meat  Balls. 

Boulardt. 

Several    Slices    of    Meat    (Raw    or    Cold 
>  Cooked). 

1    Tomato.     1    Onion.    1    Carrot. 

3    Hard-Boiled    Eggs. 

1   Stalk   of   Celery.    3   Sprigs    of  Parsley. 

1  Bay   Leaf.    1   Sprig   of   Thyme. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Cracker  Crumbs.    A  Pinch  of 

Ginger. 

1-2  CUp  of  Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Select  slices  of  beef  cut  very  thin  from 
the  round  of  the  cross  rib.  Take  one 
tomato,  one  onion,  one  carrot,  a  stalk 
of  celery,  several  sprigs  of  parsley,  one 
bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  chop  very  fine.  Mix 
this  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
half  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  and  a  pinch 
of  ginger.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Take  each  slice  of  meat,  and  make  a 
roll  of  it,  folding  the  dressing  within  and 
folding  over  the  edges  that  it  may  be  re- 
tained. Tie  each  with  thin  twine.  Have 
boiling  lard  or  suet  on  the  fire,  drop  in 
the  boulards  rolled  in  bread  crumbs,  set 
them  back  on  the  stove,  cover  well,  and 
let  them  simmer  gently  for  about  two 
hours,  adding  a  half  cup  of  water  to 
prevent  scorching.  Keep  the  pot  cov- 
ered. After  two  hours,  drain  the  bou- 
lards well  by  laying  them  on  heated 
brown  paper;  place  them  in  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  it  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs, 
parsley  and  olives,  and  serve.  Each 
Doulard  should  be  about  the  size  of  an 
egg. 

IJeft-OTer    Meat. 
Rissoles. 

4  Ounces  of  Cold  Roast  Beef  or  Veal,  ol 

Left-Over  Meat  of  any  Kind. 

2     Ounces     of     Stale     Bread,     Wet     and 

Squeezed  Thoroughly. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Minced  Parsley. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Flour. 

1 1-2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Milk    or    Water. 

1-4    Teaspoonful    Each    of    Salt    and 

Black  Pepper. 

A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 

1  Bay  Leaf,   Chopped   Fine,   With   Sprigs^ 

of   Parsley    and    Thyme. 

Mince  the  meat  finely  and  season  well. 
Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  with  it, 
adding,  if  you  have  it,  minced  Chaurii^e 
or  ^usage  meat,  or  a  little  cold  ham 
minced.  Form  it  into  balls,  using  two 
tablespoonfuls  for  each  ball.  Brush 
lightly  with  milk,  toss  in  a  little  flour, 
pat  to  get  off  all  superfluous  flour,  and 
brown  nicely  in  boiling  lard.  Drain  off 
all  lard  and  serve  on  a  platter,  garnished 
with   parsley   sprigs. 

Meat  Souffle. 

Souffle   de   Boeuf. 

1   Cup   of   Cold   Meat. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of   Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls     of    Flour.    1    Cup     of 

Cold  Milk. 

2    Eggs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Put  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
Into  a  frying  pan,  and  when  it  Is  hot 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  rubbing 
smoothly  and  letting  it  brown.  Then  add 
gradually  one  cup  of  cold  milk.  Stir  this 
until  it  boils.  Add  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  a  little  pepper  and  one  cupful 
of  chopped  meat,  or  fowl,  that  has  been 
left  over.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil, 
add   the   yolk   of   two   beaten   eggs.    Let 


it  cook  a  moment  longer  and  set  to  cool. 
Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
when  the  meat  mixture  is  cold,  fold  them 
in  carefully.  Turn  this  into  a  buttered 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  as  soon  as  removed  from 
the  fire.  A  little  grated  nutmeg  is  a 
great  addition. 

Beefsteak  Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent  de  Boeuf. 

1  Quart  of  Cold  Cooked  Meat. 

2  Slices  of  Breakfast  Bacon. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.    1-2    Dozen 

Potatoes. 

Thyme,  Bay  Leaf  and  Parsley. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Make  a  nice  pie  crust.  (See  Plain 
Paste.)  Line  a  baking  pan  with  thi3, 
and  bake  in  the  oven.  Cut  the  meat  very 
fine,  into  dice,  and  season  well,  rubbing 
with  the  minced  thyme,  parsley,  bay  leaf 
and  salt  and  pepper.  Stew  the  meat  as 
in  Ragout  de  Veau  a  la  Bourgeoise. 
Place  in  the  pan.  Dot  the  top  with  bits 
of  butter,  and  place  over  all  a  layer  of 
pie  crust,  decorating  the  edge  nicely. 
Bake  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  was  cooked,  with  any 
left-over  sauce  spread   over  the  slices. 

Potted  Beef. 

Terriue  de   Boeuf. 

2   Rounds    of   Beef. 

1   Slice  of  Suet   (Gros   de  Boeuf). 

1-2  Can  Mushrooms. 

4    Tolks    of    Eggs.    1    Dozen    Allspice.     4 

Cloves. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne. 

1  Glass  of  Brandy. 

Chop  the  slices  of  beef  very  fine  with 
the  suet,  and  season  with  the  mashed 
spices,  the  herbs,  minced  very  fine,  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  beaten  yolka 
of  the  eggs.  Pour  over  all  the  brandy 
and  mix.  Line  the  bottom  of  the  baking 
nan  with  strips  of  lean  bacon  and  dot  of 
beef  on  top  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  for 
two  hours  in  a  quick  oven. 

HASH. 

HACHIS. 

1   Quart  of  Cold    Meat.    1   Onion. 

1  Pint  of  Chopped  Potatoes    (Uncooked). 

2  CHard-Boiled   Eggs.     1-4   of  a   Clove 

of  Garlic. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  or  Lard. 

Salt,    Pepper   and    Cayenne   to    Taste. 

Take  the  remains  of  cold  roast,  stew, 
bouilli.  steaks  or  fowl,  and  mince  very 
fine.  To  every  quart  of  meat  allow  one 
onion,  a  quarter  of  a  clove  of  garlic, 
chopped  fine,  and  one  pint  of  chopped 
(uncooked)  potatoes,  and  two  hard-boiled 
eggs,  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  this  with  the 
minced  meat,  add  salt,  pepper  and  Ca- 
yenne to  taste;  put  into  a  stew  pan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  and  let 
it  simmer  gently.  After  ten  minutes  adil 
a  half  pint  of  hot  water.  Let  it  cook  ten 
minutes  longer  and  serve.  The  egg  may 
be  omitted. 

Dry  or  , Baked  Hash. 

Hachls    Sec. 

1  Pint  of  Chopped  Meat,  Left-Over. 

1-2   Pint   of   Water,    or    Left-Over   Broth. 

1  Pint  of  Cooked  Chopped  Tomatoes. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 

1    Large    Onion.    1    Clove    of    Garlic.     I 

Bay  Leaf. 

1  Sprig  of  Parsley.      , 


52 


Chop  and  mince  the  meat  very  fine- 
Chop  the  potatoes  fine,  or  in  square-inch 
pieces.  Mince  the  parsley,  bay  leaf,  onion 
and  garlic  fine;  mix  all  together  with 
the  meat  and  potatoes  and  season  highly 
with  pepper  and  Cayenne,  salting  to 
taste.  Add  the  tablespoonful  of  butter 
am"  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about 
on<    hour. 

Hash    on    Toast. 

Hachis   sur    Canapes. 

1  Quart  of  Cold  Meat. 

1  Pint  of  Boiling  Water  or  Milk. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Cut  the  left-over  roast,  bouilli  or  steak 
into  small  squares.  To  each  pint  of  these 
little  squares  allow  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 
a  half  pint  of  boiling  water.  Put  the 
butter  into  a  frying  pan,  and  as  it  melts 
add  the  flour,  being  careful  not  to  let  it 
burn.  When  browned  add  the  water,  or, 
preferably,  milk,  and  stir  until  it  begins 
to  boil.  Then  add  the  hashed  and  sea- 
soned meat,  and  season  again  to  taste. 
Set  the  hash  on  a  moderate  fire  and  let 
it  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes. 

In  the  meantime,  toast  slices  of  bread 
and  butter  them.  Set  them  in  a  hot  dish, 
spread  each  slice  with  the  hash  very 
thickly  and  pour  the  sauce  over  and 
serve.  The  hash  may  be  baked  and 
spread  on  the  toast  and  served  with  a 
sauce  a  I'Espagnole.     (See  recipe.) 

Corn   Beef. 

Boeuf   au   Mi-Sel. 

3  Pounds  of  Corned  Beef. 

2  Carrots.     2  Turnips.     1  Stalk  of  Celery. 
2   Onions.     1   Clove   of  Garlic. 

The  best  cut  for  this  is  the  lower  round 
of  the  beef,  which  is  perfectly  tree  from 
bone.  Put  the  corn  beef  on  to  boil  in 
a  large  pot  of  cold  water.  The  pot  should 
be  well  covered.  When  it  begins  boiling 
well,  set  it  back  to  cook  gently,  and  al- 
low twenty-five  minutes  to  each  pound 
of  beef.  When  within  two  hours  of  "be- 
ing cooked,  add  two  carrots,  two  turnips 
a  stalk  of  celery,  two  O'nions,  one  clove 
of  garlic,  chopped  fine,  and  let  these  boil 
with  the  beef.  Serve  with  the  vegetables 
ranged  whole  around  the  dish.  Corn 
beef  is  also  served  with  cabbage,  but 
never  boil  the  cabbage  in  the  beef  as 
both  will  become  indigestible.  It  should 
be  as  tender  as  a  spring  chicken  when 
done. 

Corn    Beef   Hash. 

iHachis    de    Boeuf   au    Mi-S'el. 

1  Pint  of  Corn  Beef,  Cooked,  and  1  Pint 

of  Left-Over  Potatoes. 

1    Grated    Onion.    1    Tablespoonful    of 

Butter. 

1  Cup  of  Broth  or  Water. 

1  Bay  Le:if.     1   Sprig  of  Parsley. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Mix  the  meat  thoroughly  after  mincing 
fine  together  with  the  chopped  potatoes 
Grate  the  onion  and  a  halt  clove  of 
garlic  if  desired,  and  chO'P  the  herbs  tine 
and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  beet, 
seasoning  highly.  Put  the  butter  into 
the  trying  pan,  add  the  meat  and  liic 
broth  or  water  and  stir  constantly  till  It 
boils.  Spread,  after  it  has  cooked  for 
about  twenty  minutes  on  slices  of  but- 
tered toast.  Pour  over  the  gravy  and 
garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  sliced 
lemon. 


Breaded   Ox   Tails. 

Queues   de   Boeuf  Panees. 
2    Ox    Tails. 

1  Cup   of  Grated   Bread   Crumbs. 
3  Sprigs   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

3  Sprigs  of  Thyme.  1  Bay  Leaf.  1  Egg. 
Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
Wash  the  tails  and  cut  them  at  the 
joints;  then  cut  again,  into  two  pieces  of 
about  four  inches  in  length.  Have  a  poi 
of  boiling  water;  season  this  well  with 
chopped  parsley,  thyme,  bay  leaf  and 
salt  and  pepper  and  Cayenne  to  taste. 
Boil  the  ox  tails  till  tender;  when  done 
remove  from  the  fire  and  let  them  cool 
in  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled. 
Beat  an  egg  well,  roll  the  bits  of  tail  in 
the  egg  and  then  roll  in  grated  bread 
crumbs.  Drop  into  a  pot  of  boiling 
grease  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Take 
out  and  drain  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  a 
la  Tartare,  Ravigotte,  Tomato  or  any 
sauce.     (See  recipe.) 

Ox    Tails    a   la   Bour^eoise. 

Queue  de   Boeuf  la  Bourgeoise. 
2  Ox  Tails. 

2  Onions.     2    Carrots.     1    Turnip. 

1-2  Can  of  Green  Peas. 
1-2  Inch  of  Ham.  1  Tablespoonful  of 
Butter. 
2  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 
1  Bay  Leaf.  1  Clove  of  Garlic. 
1  Pint  of  Consomme  or  Boiling  Water. 
1  Glass  of  Sherry  Wine  or  Water. 
Cut  the  ox  tails  into  pieces  of  three  or 
four  inches  In  length.  Chop  two  oniora 
tine,  and  put  the  whole  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Let  them 
brown  a  little  and  add  two  large  carrots, 
cut  into  dice,  and  one  turnip  cut  the 
same  way.  Brown  these  witli  the  ox 
tails.  Add  one-half  inch  of  ham,  well 
chopped,  and  let  it  brown,  and  then  add 
two  sprigs  of  thyme  and  one  bay  leaf 
and  one  clove  of  garlic,  chopped  verj' 
fine.  Let  these  ingredients  all  brown 
about  two  minutes  over  a  hot 
fire.  Then  add  one  glass  of 
Sherry  wine  or  water.  Let  all  brown 
two  minutes  longer,  and  add  one  pint  of 
consomme  or  boiling  water.  Season 
again  to  taste,  and  add  a  half  can  of 
green  peas.  Let  all  boil  until  the  ox  tails 
are  tender  to  the  touch,  and  serve  hot. 

Broiled    Kidneys. 

BrG<;hettes    de    Rognons. 

3    Kidneys. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Lemon    Juice.     Chopped    Parsley. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
The  kidneys  must,  first  of  all,  be  per- 
fectly  fresh.     "SVash   them  well   and   slice 
them;   cut  into  thin  pieces  of  about  three 
inches  long  and  two  inches  wide.    Run  a 
wooden  or  silver  ske^Yer  through  to  hold 
them  together,  and  season  well  with  salt 
and    pepper.     Brush    -tvith    a  little   butter, 
and  put  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for 
about    fiA-e    minutes,     turning    over    the 
broiler  to  allow  each  side  to  cook.    Place 
on  a  platter  and  pour  over  melted  butter 
and    chopped    parsley    and    lemon    juice, 
and     serve    hot,    as    you    would    broiled 
steak. 

Stewed  Kidneys. 

Rognons   Sautes   a   la   Creole. 

3   Kidneys.     1   Cup   of   Water. 

1-2    Spoon    of   Butter. 

1-2  Glass  ot  ■\\liite    Wine. 

1    Teaspoonful    ot    Sherry    Wine. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1  Sprig  Each  ot  Chopped  Parsley,  Thyme 

and  Bay  Leaf,  Very  Fine. 


53 


■Select  perfectly  fresh  kidneys ;  wash 
them  well,  and  then  slice  very  thin. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
into  the  saucepan;  when  melted  and  very 
hot  add  the  kidneys  and  chopped  herbs, 
being  very  careful  to  stir  constantly  and 
very  fast,  to  prevent  burning.  Add  a 
half  glass  cf  White  wine,  if  possible, 
and  one  cup  of  water  or  consomme.  Let 
it  iboil  up  once,  and  the  kidneys  are 
ready  to  be  served.  Kidneys  are  like 
eggs — they  do  not  require  long  to  cook, 
and  the  more  they  are  cooked  the  harder 
they  become.  Five  minutes  should  be 
sufficient  to  cook  them  well,  and  at  no 
time  should  they  be  allowed  to  boil.  By 
adding  Champagne,  instead  of  White 
wine,  you  will  have  Rognons  Saute  au 
Champagne. 

Broiled    Xjiver. 

Brochettes  de  Foie. 

1   Pound  of  Beef's  Liver. 

Tablespoonful    of   Melted    Butter. 

'S'alt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Chopped   Parsley  to    Garnish. 

Wash  and  slice  the  liver  into  thin 
pieces  c-f  about  three  inches  in  length 
and  one-quarter  inch  in  thickness.  Run 
a  skewer  through  to  prevent  from  curl- 
ing up.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, brush  lightly  with  butter,  and  place 
on  a  double  broiler,  stringing  on  the 
skewer  with  alternate  slices  of  bacon. 
Broil  as  you  would  a  tenderloin  st'^ak 
for  about  five  minutes,  and  serve  ^ith 
a  sauce  of  melted  butter  and  chopped 
parsley  po-ured  over. 

Fried    Liver    a    la    Lyonnaise. 

Foie   Sautees   a   la   Lyonnaise. 

1  Pound  of  Liver  of  the  Beef. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2    Large    Onions. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Slice  the  onions  nicely.  Put  one  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter  into  the  frying  pan 
and  add  the  onions.  When  brown,  takp 
the  liver  which  you  have  cut  into  slices 
of  about  three  inches  in  length  and  one- 
half  inch  in  thickness,  and  seasc-n  well 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  it  over  the 
onions.  Stir  well.  Cover  and  let  it  fry 
for  about  three  minutes,  and  then  turn 
over  and  let  it  cook  three  minutes  more 
Pour  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  on  top 
and  again  season  to  taste.     Let  it  simmer 


three   or   four   minutes   longer   and   serve 
hot.     Liver  does  not  require  long  to  cook. 

Jellied  Tongue. 

Langue   de   Boeuf   en   Genee. 

1  Beef  Tongue.    2  Calf's  Feet. 
4  Pints  of  Strong  Consomme. 

1  Glass  of  Sherry  Wine. 
Spices. 
Parboil  the  tongue  and  two  calf's  feet. 
Then  take  out  of  the  hot  water  and  skin 
an(J  clean  the  tongue  well,  and  take  the 
bones  out  of  the  calf's  feet.  Mince  two 
onions  very  fine,  and  fry  them  in  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter.  Let  them  brown, 
and  lay  on  these  the  well-seasoned 
tongue  and  calf's  feet.  Let  them  simmer 
ten  minutes,  and  then  add  one  pint  of 
i3onsoinme,  and,  five  minutes  after,  one 
glass  of  White  wine.  Let  these  smother, 
keeping  well  covered,  for  an  hour  and  a 
half.  Then  take  the  tongue  out,  and  let 
the  calf's  feet  cook  and  reduce  a  half 
hour  longer.  After  this  add  the  tongue 
for  two  minutes  longer.  Put  all  into  a 
bowl  or  dish,  and  let  it  cool.  Tou  will 
have  a   delicious  jelly. 

Smothered    Tongue. 

Langue  de  Bc-euf  Eraisee. 

1  Fresh  Tongue  of  Beef. 

1   Pint   of    Liquor   in   Which   the    Tongue 

Was  Boiled. 

2  Onions,    Minced   Very   Pine. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     2  Cloves. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Glass  of  White  Wine    (if  Desired). 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Parboil  the  tongue  for  abcut  ten  min- 
utes. Then  skin  and  clean  well. .  Chop 
an  onion  very  fine,  and  brown  this  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  brown , 
add  the  tongue,  which  you  will  have  ar- 
ranged by  fastening  the  thick  part  to  the 
tip  with  a  skewer,  as  for  roast  beef.  Let 
It  cook,  smothering  slowly,  for  fifteea 
m^inutes,  and  then  add  another  onion 
sliced  nicely.  Let  this  brown,  and  add 
one  square  inch  of  ham,  well  chopped, 
two  carrots  sliced,  and  a  bay  leaf,  and 
two  sprigs  of  thyme,  minced  fine.  Brown 
again,  and  add  a  pint  of  broth.  Season 
well,  and  add  a  glass  of  White  wine,  and 
then  let  it  smother  for  one  hour  and  a 
half  longer,  turning  every  quarter,  so 
that  every  part  may  cook  thoroughly. 
Serve  with  the  sauce  in  which  it  was 
cooked,  or  jvith  a  Sauce  Piquante.  (See 
recipe.,) 


CHAPTER   XIII. 
VEAL. 


Du 

The  loin  filet,  shoulder  and  breast  of 
the  veal  are  used  for  roasting.  Chops 
are  cut  from  the  loin,  and  the  leg  'S 
used  for  filets  and  cutlets.  The  filet  of 
veal  is  quite  different  from  the  filet  of 
beef,  and  does  not,  in  any  manner, 
correspond  to  the  latter,  being  a  solid 
piece  cut  from  the  legs  of  the  young  calf. 
The  knuckle  is  the  lower  part  of  the  leg 
after  the  cutlets  are  taken  off,  and,  with 
the  neck,  is  used  extensively  for  making 
Gtcws,  soups  and  veal  pies.  Indeed,  as 
far  as  stews  are  concerned,  the  Creoles 
never  make  a  "beef  stew"  or  very  rarely, 
the  meat  of  b6ef  being  con.sidered  too 
tough.  Never  buy  veal  that  is  very 
young,  for  young  meats,  as  a  rule,  are 
not  nutritious;  but  properly  cooked,  as 
the  Creoles  know  how,  they  need  never 
be  unwholesome  or  indigestible.  A  calf 
should  never  be  killed  until  it  is  at  least 
two  months  old,  and  then  the  meat  has 
a    pinkish    tinge,    and    is    firm    and    the 


Veau. 

bones  are  hard.  Calf  that  has  been 
killed  too  young  may  be  known  by  the 
bluish  tinge  and  the  soft,  flabby  flesh, 
and  small,  tender  bones. 

The  Creole  cooks  always  pound  the 
veal  almost  to  a  pulp.  This  renders  it 
very  tender  and  digestible.  Veal  must 
always  be  well  cooked,  and  cooked  very 
slowly,  else  it  will  be  hard,  tough  and 
unfit  for  food. 

Veal  furnishes  an  almost  endless  va- 
riety of  delightful  dishes.  The  following 
are  those  mc-st  important  in  use  in 
Creole    homes: 

Boast    Loin    of    Veal. 

Longe  de  Veau  Rotie. 

4  Pounds  of  Veal. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  or  Lard. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Sprigs    of   Parsley    and   Sliced   Lemon   to 

Garnish. 


54 


Trim  and  cut  the  veal  nicely  of  the 
heavier  portion  of  the  fat,  leaving 
enough,  however,  to  render  it  sweet  and 
juicy.  If  freshly  cut,  and  not  handled 
too  much  by  the  butcher,  merely  wipe 
the  loin  with  a  damp  towel.  Then  dredge 
it  thickly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sep- 
arate the  articlulations  or  Joints,  that 
the  meat  may  cook  thoroughly.  Rub 
well  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or 
lard,  and  place  in  a  very  quick  oven  for 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Then  raise  the 
damper  cf  the  stove  and  cover  the  veal 
with  a  piece  of  brown  buttered  pap^ir 
and  let  it  cook  slowly,  allowing  at  least 
twenty  m'nutes  to  each  pound  of  veal. 
Keep  the  oven  at  a  steady,  regular  heat. 
About  twenty  minutes  before  serving 
take  off  the  buttered  paper  and  let  the 
roast  brown  nicely,  augmenting  the  fire 
a  little.  Take  out,  place  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  nicely  with  sprigs  of  parsley 
and  sliced  lemcoi.  Serve  with  its  own 
gravy.  The  practice  of  making  a  gravy 
with  flour  for  roast  beef  and  roast  veal 
cannot  be  too  severely  condemned.  Meat 
Is  always  best  when  served  in  its  own 
Juice,  if  roasted  or  broiled. 

Roast    Veal    With   fine   Herbs. 

Carre    de   Veau    Roti   aux   Fines    Herbej. 

A  4-Pound  Filet  of  Veal. 

1    Cup   of   Broth    or   Water. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

1    Onion.    3    Bay    Leaves. 

2  Sprigs  of  Sweet  Marjoram. 

3  Sprigs    of   Parsley. 
3  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 

The  juice  of  1  Lemon. 

X-2  Teaspoonful  Each  of  Ground  Cloves, 

Mace  and  Allspice. 

Have  the  butcher  cut  the  filet  of  veal 
square,  wipe  with  a  damp  towel  anrl 
then  take  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  an'.l 
dredge  the  roast  nicely.  Season  well 
with  salt  and  Cayenne:  mince  the  onion, 
bay  leaf,  marjoram,  parsley  and  thyme, 
and  mix  these  with  the  ground  spiojs; 
add  the  Juice  of  a  lemon,  and  pour  all 
over  the  meat.  Place  in  a  quick  oven 
for  about  fifteen  minutes.  After  this, 
lessen  the  heat,  place  on  top  of  the  veal 
a  buttered  piece  of  brown  paper,  and  let 
it  roast  slowly,  allowing  twenty  minutes 
for  each  pound  of  veal.  When  almost 
done  take  off  the  paper  and  let  the  roast 
brown  nicely  for  twenty  minutes  longer. 
Then  take  the  roast  out  of  the  graw 
and  place  in  a  hot  dish  in  the  oven. 
Take  the  gravy,  stir  well,  mixing  all  the 
herbs  that  have  run  out  of  the  beef. 
Add  one  cup  of  broth  or  water  and  the 
Juice  of  one  lemon,  and  mix  this  thor- 
oughly. Grate  some  bread  crumbs,  beat 
well  in  one  egg,  and  pour  this  over  the 
veal,  let  it  brown  nicely  and  serve  with 
the  sauce. 

Filet    of    Veal    With    Mushrooms    or 
Truffles. 

Filet  de  Veau  aux  Champignons  ou  aux 
Truffes. 

1    Filet    of   Veal. 

1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms  or  Truffles. 

1   Small    Onion.     1   Bay   Leaf. 

4  Cloves    (if   desired). 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Glace  (see  recipe). 

1   Glass  of  Sherry   or  Madeira   Wine    (or 

Water). 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  Filet  of  Beef  Larded,  with  Mush- 
rooms or  Truffles,  only  do  not  lard  the 
veal>  Allow  ithe  veal  to  cook  much 
longer,  for  it  must  be  well  done,  twentv 
minutes  to  the  pound  being  a  good  guide 


always  in  roasting  veal.  (See  recipe  for 
Filet  of  Beef  Larded,  with  Mushrooms 
or  Truffles.) 

Stuffed    Boast     Shoulder     or    Breast    ot 
Veal. 

Fpaule    ou    Poitrlne   de   Veau   Farcie. 

1  Shoulder  of  Veal.    1-4  Pound  of  Ham. 

1   Herb   Bouquet. 

1   Hard-Boiled    Egg.     1    Tablespoonful   of 

Butter. 

1  Spoon  of  Flour. 

(If  the  shoulder  of  veal  is  used,  have 

the  butcher  remove  the  bone.) 

When  ready  to  cook,  wipe  well  with 
a  damp  towel,  and  then  dredge  with  salt 
and  pepper,  seasoning  highly.  Make  a 
dressing  by  taking  one  cup  of  stale 
bread,  wet  and  squeezed,  one-quarter 
pound  of  sliced  ham,  or  salt  pork,  pref- 
erably the  ham,  and  chop  very  fine.  Mix 
this  with  the  bread  and  season  highly 
with  hot  pepper,  according  to  taste;  1 
carrot,  1  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  1  hard-hoUed 
egg,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  of  parsley,  all 
minced  very  fine.  Add  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  and  place  In  a  frying  pan: 
let  it  fry  for  about  ten  minutes  and  then 
add,  if  you  have  it,  a  quarter  of  a  glass 
of  Wliite  "Wine,  or  two  tablespoonfuls, 
and  two  tablespoonfuis  of  beef  broth; 
stir  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes 
longer.  Then  stuff  the  shoulder  well  and 
skewer  the  filet  to  prevent  the  dressing 
from  falling  out  in  cooking.  It  is  well 
to  tie  the  veal  at  either  end  with  a 
piece  of  twine.  Take  one  tablespoonful 
of  lard  and  dredge  roast  according  to 
preceding  recipes. 

If  the  breast  of  the  veal  is  used,  make 
long  gashes  between  the  ribs  and  fill 
with  a  dressing  prepared  as  above;  place 
in  the  baking  pan  and  roast  slowly,  ac- 
cording to  directions.  When  finished 
cooking,  remove  the  shoulder  or  breast, 
and  stir  the  gravy  well,  adding  a  cup  of 
broth  or  water  and  the  Juice  of  one 
lemon  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
seasoning  to  taste.  Serve  with  the  roast. 
Some  like  the  addition  of  a  teaspoonf'jl 
of  prepared  mustard,  but  that  is  a  mat- 
ter of  taste. 

Veal   Cutlets   Breaded. 

Cotelettes    de    Veau    Panees. 

6    Veal    Cutlets. 

1  Egg.    1  Cup  of  Bread  Crumbs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Lemon    and   Parsley   to    Garnish. 

Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotei. 

Have  the  cutlets  cut  thin.     Season  well 

with  salt  and  pepper.     Beat  an  egg  well 

and  roll  the  outlets  in  the  egg,  then  roll 

in    bread    crumbs.     Drop    in    boiling  lard 

and   fry   to    a    nice    golden   brown.    TaUo 

out,  drain  off  the  lard,  place  on  a  heated 

dish   and    serve   with    garnish    of   parsley 

and  sliced  lemon  and  a  Sauce  a  la  Maitre 

d'Hotei.     (See  recipe.)     The  addition  of  a 

little  lemon  Juice  adds  to  the  flavor  when 

eating  the  cutlets. 

Veal   Cutlets   Brended   and   Broiled. 

Cotelettes    de    Veau    Panees    et    Grilleea. 

6  Veal  Cutlets.    1  Egg. 

1  Cup    of  Bread   Crumbs. 

Parsley    Sprigs. 

Melted   Butter  or   Sauce  a  la   Ravigotte. 

Have   the   cutlets    as    thin   as   possible. 

Season  well,   after  having  beat  with  the 

rolling-pin,  and  roll  in  a  well-beaten  egs 

and   then    in    bread    crumbs.     Pat   lightly 

with   the    hands    and    brush    with    melted 

butter.    Place    on    a    double    broiler   and 

broil    on   a   very   slow    fire   till    no   blood 

exudes.     Serve   with    drawn   butter   sauca 

poured   over  or  a  Sauce  a  la   Ravigotte. 


55 


(See     recipe.)     Garnish     the     dish     nicely 
with  parsley  sprigs. 

Cutlets  of   Veal  u  la   Milanaise. 

Cotelettes  de  Veau  a  la  Milanaise. 

6  Veal  Cutlets.     1  Egg. 
1    Cup    of    Bread    Crumbs. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 
A  Bed  of  Macaroni  or  Spaghetti. 
Tomato  Sauce. 
Prepare  as  above,  and  serve  the  cutlets 
on  a  bed  of  boiled  macaroni  or  spaghetti 
and     pour     over     the     vifhole     a     Tomato 
Sauce. 

Veal   Cutlets   en   Fapillotes. 

Cotelettes   de  Veau   en  Papillotes. 

6    Veal    Cutlets. 

A  Half -Pound  of  Pork  Sausage  Meat. 

1-2  Can  of  Mushro&ms.     1   Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

1    Clove    Garlic. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Use  for  this  young  and  tender  veal 
cutlets,  cut  very  fine.  Fry  the  chops, 
after  seasoning  well  in  butter,  very 
slowly,  and,  when  cooked,  take  out  of 
the  frying  pan  and  put  in  a  dish.  Take 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  put  in  a 
frying  pan.  Add  a  half  pound  of  sausage 
meat  and  a  half  can  of  mushrooms, 
chopped  very  fine.  Mix  well,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  minced 
clove  of  garlic,  and  let  it  all  cook  five 
minutes.  Take  pieces  of  white  foolscap 
paper  and  cut  in  cone  or  pyramidal 
shapes  of  the  size  of  the  cutlets.  Fold 
the  edges  over  the  other  -very  nicely, 
doubling  the  paper  to  form  the  half  dia- 
mond or  cone.  Then  oil  the  paper  well 
with  sweet  oil.  Take  the  stuffing  of 
sausage  meat  and  put  a  layer  on  one 
side  of  the  fold  of  each  cone.  Lay  the 
chop  diagonally  across  this,  so  that  the 
end  reaches  the  tip  of  the  cO'ne,  ana 
spread  over  this  another  layer  of  the 
stuffing.  Fold  the  paper  over  neatly 
around  the  edges,  and  then  oil  well  again 
on  the  outside.  Bake  in  an  oven  or  lay 
on  top  of  a  gridiron  and  broil  until 
brown.  This  will  be  in  about  five  min- 
utes. They  will  need  no  gravy,  the  oil 
having  slightly  permeated,  and  the  chops 
being  kept  delicate  and  juicy  by  the 
dressing.  Serve  hot  in  vhe  papers  or 
papillotes,  the  guests  removing  them  at 
the  table.  This  is  a  very  dainty  way  of 
serving  veal  cutlets,  and  the  only  way 
of  serving  them  in  papillotes. 

Veal    Cutlets    Smothered    a   la    Creole. 

Cotelettes   de   Veau   Btouffees   ou 
Braisees   a   la    Creole. 

6  Veal  Cutlets. 

6    Onions,    Sliced    Fine.     1    Tablespoo'nful 

of    L-ard. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

2   Tablespoonfuls   of  Vinegar. 

Pepper  and  Salt  to  Taste. 

Cut  off  the  outer  skin  of  the  cutlets, 
and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dredge  with  flour.  Place  the  table- 
spoonful of  lard  in  a  deep  frying  pan 
and  let  it  melt.  Then  lay  in  the  sliced 
onions,  and  over  these  lay  the  cutlets. 
Cover  closely.  Let  them  simmer  over  .a 
hot  fire  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  turn 
the  cutlets  on  the  other  side.  After  three 
minutes,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar, chopped  parsley,  thyme  and  bay 
leaf  and  a  clove  of  garlic.  Turn  the 
veal,  letting  the  flour  brown  well,  and 
keep  the  pot  closely  covered.  When 
brown,  pour  ever  one  cup  of  water,  or  a 
pint,  which  will  be  sufficient  to  cover 
the  meat.  Bring  this  to  a  brisk  boil 
and  set  the  pot  back,  where  it  can  sim- 


nier  gently  for  about  two  hours.  S'erve 
with  a  nice  garnish  of  parsley  or  rad- 
ishes. 

Veal  Daube   a  la   Creole. 

Daube  Froide  a.  la  Creole. 

i  Pounds  of  Veal   Rump. 

2    Pig's    Feet.     1-4    Pound    of    Salt    Fat 

Meat. 

5  Large  Onions.     2  Turnips. 

5    Carrots.     2    Cloves    of    Garlic.     3    Bay 

Leaves.        • 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

1  Glass  of  Sherry. 

3   Sprigs   of   Thyme   and   Parsley. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

Cut  the  salt  meat  into  shreds,  roll  well 
in  Cayenne  and  black  pepper.  Chop  fine- 
ly several  sprigs  of  thyme  and  three  bay 
leaves,  one  clove  of  garlic,  three  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  mash  well  three  cloves 
and  six  allspice.  Roll  the  strips  of  salt 
meat,  which  must  be  about  three  inches 
in  length  and  one-half  inch  thick,  In 
this.  Make  incisions  into  the  rump  of 
meat  and  force  in  the  strips  of  fat  meat 
and  the  spices.  Then  rub  the  whole  well 
with  salt  and  pepper,  judging  according 
to  taste,  and  proceed  to  cook  according 
to  the  recipe  fOT  Beef  a  la  Mode.  (Se."i 
recipe  Beef  a  la  Mode.)  Let  the  daube 
cook  about  four  hours  when  you  intend 
to  serve  it  cold. 

In  the  meantime,  in  another  pot,  place 
a  veal  steak  of  about  two  pounds  and 
two  pig's  feet.  Season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  Cayenne,  and  cover  well 
with  four  quarts  of  water,  and  let  them 
boil.  Add  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  of 
thyme,  one-half  clove  of  garlic  and  one 
onion,  all  minced  very  fine,  and  two 
cloves  mashed  into  almost  a  jelly,  and 
one  glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine. 
Let  these  boil  well  with  the  veal  and 
pig's  feet.  Then,  when  the  veal  and  pig'.= 
feet  are  cooked  very  tender,  take  them 
out  of  the  pot  anB  mince  the  meat  of 
each  very  fine;  return  to  the  sauce,  and 
again  season  highly,  according  to  taste, 
for  the  flavor  depends  upO'U  the  piquant 
seasoning.  After  the  daube  has  cooked 
four  or  five  hours,  take  off  the  stove  and 
pour  over  the  sauce  and  set  all  in  a  cool 
place.  Serve  the  next  day — cold,  cutting 
into  thin  slices.  It  will  all  have  formei 
a  jelly  that  is  most  delicious  and  appe- 
tizing. 

If  the  flank  is  used,  have  it  boned  by 
the  butcher,  removing  the  little  flat  bones 
and  all  the  gristle.  In  this  case,  trim  it 
evenly  and  make  a  forcemeat  of  sausage. 
1  cup,  grated  fine;  bread  crumbs,  1  cup, 
wet  and  squeezed;  1  clove  of  garlic  or  1 
grated  onion,  all  minced  very  fine;  1 
hard-boiled  egg,  1  sprig  of  thyme  and 
bay  leaf,  minced  fine.  Mix  all  thorough- 
ly with  the  sausage  meat  and  the  bread: 
fry  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  for  about 
five  minutes;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
Sherry,  stir  well;  stuff  the  flank  of  veal, 
and  then  proceed  in  exactly  the  sam3 
manner    as    above    indicated. 

Frlcandeau   of    Veal. 

Fricandeau   de   Veau. 

A  Rump  of  Veal  of  Two  Pounds  Weight. 

1  Pint   of  Broth. 

2  Onions.    2  Carrots. 
1-2  Dozen  Slices  of  Bacon. 

1-2  Can  of  Green  Peas  or  Mushrooms. 
Thyme,  Parsley,  Bay  Leaf. 
For  this  take  one  whole  piece  of  the 
rump  of  the  veal,  out  about  two  inches 
In  thickness,  and  about  the  size  O'f  a 
large  saucepan  or  frying  pan  in  length 
and  width.  Lard  the  beef  well  with  lard- 


56 


ing  needles,  and  rub  well  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Then  slice  two  onions,  two  car- 
rots, two  sprigs  of  thyme  and  two  bay 
leaves,  and  a  half  dozen  slices  of  thinly- 
sliced  fat  bacon,  two  inches  long  and 
about  the  thickness  of  a  dollar.  Place 
the  bacon  in  strips  in  the  bottom  of  the 
saucepan,  and  lay  over  this  a  layer  of 
the  sliced  carrots  and  onions.  Put  about 
a  dozen  little  dots  of  lard  over  this  at 
intervals,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Lay  the  veal  on  top  of  this,  and 
then  cover  up  with  a  layer  of  the  sliced 
onions  and  carrots,  and  lay  strips  o* 
bacon  on  top.  Cut  a  piece  of  paper  tha 
size  of  the  saucepan,  and  cover  it  up. 
Place  in  a  good  oven,  and  let  it  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  longer,  slowly. 
Watch  carefully.  When  done,  take  ou 
the  meat  and  place  it  in  a  dish.  Take 
the  sauce  and  add,  if  possible,  &ne-half 
glEUss  of  "White  wine,  and  let  it  boil  with 
the  vegetables  a  moment.  Then  add  one 
pint  of  broth  or  water,  and  let  it  cook 
well.  Strain  after  it  boils  fifteen  min- 
utes. It  will  have  become  a  very  fine 
gravy.  Add,  if  desired,  a  half  can  of 
mushrooms,  or  a  half  can  of  green  peas, 
and  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes  longer. 
Then  add  the  Fricandeau  of  Veal  and 
let  it  warm  well  for  about  ten  minutes 
and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  This  is  a 
most  excellent  family  dish. 

»  Stewed    Veal. 

Ragout    de    Veau    a    la    Bourgeoise. 

3    Pounds    of    Brisket    of    Veal.     2    Large 

Onions. 

2  Carrots.     2  Pints  of  Boiling  Water. 

1-2    Can    of    Tomatoes.    1    Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  of   Lard. 

1    Clove   of   Garlic.     1    Bay    Leaf. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme  and  Sweet  Mar- 

joram. 
Salt  and   Pepper   and   Cayenne  to   Taste. 

The  brisket  of  the  veal  or  the  neck 
is  best  for  stews,  preferably  the  brisket. 
Cut  it  into  pieces  of  about  1 1-2  inches 
square,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  in 
the  stew  pot,  and  when  hot  throw  in  the 
veal,  which  has  been  well  seasoned  with 
salt  and  black  pepper.  Let  it  brown,  and 
then  add  the  onions  and  carrots,  which 
have  been  chopped  fine,  and  one  clove 
of  garlic,  minced  very  fine.  Let  thi3 
brown,  and  then  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  sifted  well,  and  let  this  brown 
nicely;  add  two  pints  of  boiling  water 
and  1  can  of  tomatoes,  and  a  bay  leaf, 
chopped  very  fine,  and  salt  and  pepper 
again  to  taste,  adding,  if  desired,  a  dash 
of  Cayenne.  Many  of  the  Creoles  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  Set  the  stew 
back  on  the  stove  and  cover  closely.  Let 
it  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
or  until  the  meat  is  perfectly  tender. 
Then  serve  hot. 

Stewed    Veal    With    Potatoes. 

Ragout   de  Veau  aux  Pommes   de   Terre. 

1  Brisket  or  Knuckle  of  Veal. 

2    Small    Potatoes.    2    Large    Onions. 

2  Carrots.     1     Tablespoonful     of     Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 
1   Clove    of   Garlic.    1   Bay   Leaf. 
1    Sprig    Each    of    Thyme,    Parsley    and 
S'weet   Marjoram. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Proceed    In    the    same    manner    as    for 
Ragout   de   Veau    a    la    Bourgeoise.     Just 
before    adding    the    water    add    th<,    pota- 
toes,   which    have    been    peeied    and    cut 
into     quarters    or    halves,    according    to 
size.    Add    the    boiling    water    after    they 
are   in   the   stew  about   ten    minutes,   and 


set    back,   allowing   it   to   simmer   for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  or  until  very  tender. 

Stewed  Veal   With  Hnshrooms. 

Ragout    de    Veau    aux    Champignons. 

3    Pounds    of    Brisket    of    Veal.    2    Larg« 
Onions. 
2  Carrots.     2  Pints  of  Boiling  Water. 
1    Can    of    Mushrooms.    1    Tablespoonful 
Flour. 
1  Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 
1  Clove  of  Garlic.     1  Bay  Leaf. 
1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme  and  Sweet  Mar- 
joram. 
Salt  and  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

(Cut  the  veal  into  pieces  of  about  11-2 
Inches  square.) 

The  brisket  of  the  veal  or  the  neck  l.<i 
best  for  stews,  preferably  the  brisket. 
Cut  it  into  pieces  of  about  1 1-2  inches 
square,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  In  the 
stewpot,  and,  when  hot,  throw  in  the 
veal,  which  has  been  well  seasoned  with 
salt  and  black  pepper.  Let  It  brown,  and 
then  add  the  onions  and  carrots,  which 
have  been  chopped  fine,  and  1  clove  of 
garlic,  minced  very  fine.  Let  this  brown, 
and  then  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
sifted  well,  and  let  this  brown  nicely; 
add  2  pints  of  boiling  water  and  1  can 
of  mushrooms  whole,  and  a  bay  leaf, 
chopped  .very  fine,  and  salt  -and  pepper 
again  to  taste,  adding,  if  desired,  a  dash 
of  Cayenne.  Set  the  stew  back  on  the 
stove  and  cover  closely.  Let  It  simmer 
slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until 
the  meat  is  ^jerfectly  tender.  Then  serve 
hot.     This  is  a  very  delightful  dish. 

Cream  of   Veal. 

Creme    de   Veau. 

3  Cups     of     Chopped     Veal.      1    Cup    of 

Chopped  Ham. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to   Taste. 

1-2  Cup   of  Cream  Sauce. 

Utilize  in  this  the  left-over  filet  of  veal. 
Chop  very  fine  and  add  one  cup  of 
minced  ham.  Prepare  a  Cream  Sauce 
(see  recipe  under  "Sauces  for  Meats, 
PTish,  etc.")  in  the  proportions  to  make 
just  a  half  cup.  Season  the  chopped  veal 
with  this,  add  a  dash  of  Cayenne  and 
grated  nutmeg,  spread  upon  hot  buttered 
toast,  and  serve  at  breakfast.  Chicken 
and  mutton  may  be  prepared  in  tha 
same  way. 

Veal    en    Batatonllle. 

Ratatouille   de   Veau   a   la   Creole. 

4  Pounds  of  Brisket  of  Veal.     1-2  Pound 

of   Ham. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

1-2  Can  of  Tomatoes,   or  6  Fresh. 

4    Dozen    Fresh    Okra.     2    Large    Onions, 

2  Sweet  Potatoes.  1  Bay  Leaf. 
1  Sprig  of  Thyme.  2  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 
Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne. 
Cut  the  veal  into  pieces  of  about  three 
inches  in  length  and  two  in  width.  Cut 
the  ham  into  dice  shape,  and  the  sweet 
potatoes,  after  peeling,  into  cubes  of 
about  one  and  a  half  inches.  Add  a  half 
sweet  pepper  pod,  if  possible,  being  care- 
ful to  extract  all  the  seeds.  Season  the 
veal  highly.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard 
into  the  stew  pot  (butter  Is  nicer,  if  it 
can  be  afforded),  add  the  veal  and  let  it 
brown  nicely;  then  add  the  ham,  the 
sweet  potatoes  and  the  pepper  pod,  and 
let  them  simmer  gently  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.  In  the  meantime,  prepare  the 
following  sauce:  Place  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  It 
melts    add    the    chopped    onion,    and    an 


57 


they  brown  nicely,  the  minced  herbs 
and  garlic,  and  then  the  tomatoes  sliced 
and  chopped,  in  their  own  liquor.  Let 
this  stew  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  and 
then  add  this  to  the  stewing  veal;  mix 
thoroughly  and  set  back  on  the  stove, 
covering  tightly,  and  let  it  simmer  slow- 
ly and  constantly,  with  a  regular  fire, 
tor  about  two  hours.  Then  add  the 
okras,  which  have  been  tipped  and  sliced 
very  thinly;  let  the  mixture  simmer  for 
a  half  hour  longer,  and  serve. 

Veal  Fatties  or  Veal  Uoaf. 

Pate    de   Veau    ou   Pain    de   Veau. 

3    Pounds    of   Veal    Cutlets. 
3  Yolks  of  Eggs,  beaten  light.  6  Crackers. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Chopped  Parsley,   Thyme   and   Bay   Leaf. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

1  Pound  of  Lean   Ham.    The   Juice   of  1 

Lemon. 

Stew  the  veal,  aqd  then  powder  the 
crackers  very  fine.  Mince  the  cutlets, 
the  herbs  and  the  ham  very  fine.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  witD 
the  bread  crumbs  and  beaten  eggs.  Add 
a  clove  of  garlic  to  the  taste,  if  desired' 
add  juice  of  1  temon.  With  the  whole 
form  nice  little  loaves  of  pie  shape, 
smooth  over  the  top  with  butter,  brush 
with  egg,  beaten  well,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 
placing  a  buttered  paper  over  the  pat^^s. 
The  loaf  may  be  formed  whole  and  cut 
in  thin  slices  and  serve  cold. 

Blanquette    of    Veal. 

Blanquette    de   Veau. 

3    Pounds    of   Veal    Brisket. 

2  Onions.     1    Carrot.     1-2    Can    of    Mush- 

rooms. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Yolks  of  2  Eggs.     Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

1-2   Gallon   of   Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Take  the  brisket  of  veal  and  cut  into 
pieces  of  two  square  inches.  Put  in  a 
stew  pot  and  cover  with  a  half  gallon  of 
water,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  and  t'wo 
onions'  and  one  carrot,  chopped  fine.  Let 
it  boil  till  very  tender.  When  it  reaches 
this  stage,  take  the  meat  out  of  the 
saucepan,  and  keep  the  water  in  which 
it  was  boiled.  Take  another  saucepan 
and  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  It. 
and  as  it  melts  add  a  tablespoO'nful  of 
flour.  Mix  well,  continuing  to  dissolve 
till  it  becomes  a  smooth  cream;  do  not 
let  it  brown.  Add  one  pint  of  the  water 
In  which  the  veal  was  boiled.  Stir  well, 
making  it  very  light,  and  not  thick.  Add 
one-half  can  of  mushrooms,  and  let  the 
whole  boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  so 
as  to  be  very  light.  Then  put 
in  the  veal,  which  is  already  cooked. 
Let  it  simmer  for  about  fifteen  minutes 
longer,  and  take  off  the  fire  and  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  gravy  and  the  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Serve  hot. 
JeUied  Veal. 
Noix  de  Veau  a  la  Gelee. 

The    Filet    or    Part    of    Lower    Shoulder 

Blade  of  Veal. 

6    Peppercorns. 

2   Calf's   Feet.     1   Blade   of  Mace. 

2  Large  Onions.     2  Carrots. 
1  Gill  of  French  Vinegar. 

1  Dozen  Cloves  Mashed  Fine. 
4   Allspice    Mashed    Fine. 
3  Quarts  of  Beef  Broth. 


Cut  the  veal  into  fine  pieces,  season 
well,  and  put  it  in  a  kettle  with  the 
calf's  feet,  and  season  highly  with 
pepper,  Cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Add 
three  quarts  of  beef  broth,  or  "pot-au- 
feu."  Add  the  minced  vegetables,  herbs 
and  the  peppercorns,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  until  it  forms  a  jelly,  which  will 
be  in  about  two  and  a  half  hours.  Then 
take  out  the  veal  and  calf's  feet,  and 
carefully  remove  all  the  bones,  if  any, 
and  place  in  a  mold.  Let  the  liquor  in 
which  it  was  boiled  boil  until  it  is  re- 
duced to  about  a  quart,  adding,  in  tho 
meantime,  the  good  vinegar.  When  re 
duced,  pour  over  the  meat,  and  set  it  in 
a  cold  place  over  night.  When  cold,  turn 
out  of  the  mold  and  garnish  nicely  with 
sliced  lemon  and  parsley  sprigs  and  serve 
in  slices. 


Veal   With   Olives. 

Veau   aux    Olives. 

A  Flank  of  Veal. 

1   Slice   of   Cold   Boiled   Ham. 

1  Grated  Onion.     1  Hard-Boiled  Egg. 

1     Lemon.    1     Tablespoonful     of     Butter. 

1    Dozen    Stoned    Olives. 

This  is  a  very  old-fashioned  Creole 
dish.  Get  a  flank  of  veal  and  cut  It 
into  strips  of  about  tour  inches  in  length 
and  four  in  width.  Cut  off  sufficient 
to  make  a  half  cup,  and  chop  this  fine, 
with  a  slice  of  cold  boiled  ham.  Make 
a  mince  meat,  adding  chopped  herbs,  a;j- 
cording  to  taste,  1  grated  onion,  1  hard- 
boiled  egg,  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  naif  cup 
of  bread  crumbs.  Take  the  strips  of 
veal,  stuff  them  nicely  with  this  mixtures 
and  roll  over  the  ends,  tying  to  prevent 
the  farcie  from  escaping.  Place  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and, 
when  it  heats,  add  the  rolls  of  veal.  Let 
them  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning,  and 
then  add  soup  broth  sufficient  to  cover 
them.  Cover  closely  and  set  back  on  the 
stove,  and  let  thenx  simmer  steadily  but 
slowly  for  an  hour  longer;  then  place  in 
a  hot  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over,  season- 
ing highly;  add  about  two  dozen  stoned 
olives,  and  pour  over  the  rolls  and  serve. 


Veal  Pot  Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent  de  Veau. 

A   Veal    Brisket. 

2  Slices  of  Breakfast  Bacon  or  Ham. 

1    Tablespoonful     of    Butter.     1-2    Dozen 

Potatoes. 

Thyme,  Bay  Leaf  and  Parsley. 

Salt,    Pepper   and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

This  is  a  famous  dish  among  the  Cre- 
oles with  large  families.  For  a  family 
of  six,  get  a  veal  brisket,  and  allow  three 
parts  of  minced  veal  to  one  of  ham. 

Make  a  nice  pie  crust.  (See  Plain 
Paste.)  Line  a  baking  pan  with  this, 
and  bake  in  the  oven.  Cut  the  meat 
very  fine,  into  dice,  and  season  highly, 
rubbing  with  the  minced  thyme,  pars- 
ley, bay  leaf  and  salt  and  pepper  and 
Cayenne.  Stew  the  meat  as  in  Ragout 
de  Veau  a  la  Bourgeoise.  Place  in  tha 
pan.  Dot  the  top  with  bits  of  butter, 
and  place  over  all  a  layer  of  pie  crust, 
decorating  the  edges  nicely.  Bake  to  a 
nice  brown.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  was  cooked,  with  any  left-over  sauco 
spread   over  the  slices. 


58 


Veal  Croquettes. 

Croquettes   de    Veau. 

3-4  of  a  Pound  of  Cold  (Cooled)  Veal. 

1    Staall    Onion.     1   Bay    Leaf. 

4  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1   Large  Tablespoonful   of  Butter. 

1    Onion.     1    Cup   of    Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  S'alt. 

Cayenne  and  Pepper  tc  Taste. 
This  is  an  excellent  way  of  utilizint? 
left-o^•er  veal.  Remove  all  the  tough 
fibers  and  nerves.  Hash  the  veal  well 
and  season  with  the  minced  vegetables 
and  sweet  herbs,  mixing  all  thoroughly. 
Then  take  a  cup  of  the  soft  of  the  bread, 
wet  it  and  squeeze,  and  soak  in  milk, 
in  Which  you  have  beaten  two  eggs. 
Mix  all  this  with  the  meat  very  thor- 
oughly and  season  to  taste.  When  well 
mixed,  form  the  meat  into  cylindrical 
shapes  and  brush  with  a  little  butter. 
Then  rc'll  in  a  beaten  egg  and  roll  again 
in  powdered  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  boi'i- 
ing  lard  and  serve  hot  on  a  plate  gar- 
nished with  fried  parsley. 

Call's  Head  a  la  Poulette. 

Tete   de   Veau    a    la   Poulette. 

1    Call's    Head.     Yolk    of    1    Egg. 

1    Lemon.     2   Tablespoontuls    ol   Vinegar 

Sauce  a  la  Poulette. 

Clean  and  prepare  the  call's  head  aa* 
in  the  recipe  given  for  "Calf's  'Head 
Soup."  (See  recipe.)  Then  boil  it  ac- 
cording to  recipe.  Cut  one  lemon  fine 
and  add  to-  the  boiling  calf  head,  which, 
it  must  be  remembered,  is  boiled  simply 
in  water,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  good  vinegar  and  let  It 
cook  till  done.  This  is  either  used  to 
make  a  mock  turtle  soup  or  is  served 
with  a  Sauce  a  la  Poulette,  as  follows: 
Make  a  Sauce  a  la  Poulette.  (See  recipe.) 
Put  the  calf's  head  in  the  sauce  and  let 
it  boil  foT  a  half  hour.  Take  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  and  beat  it  as  you  would  an 
omelet.  Add  to  the  calf's  head  and  serve. 
This  will  give  the  sauce  a  fine  golden 
color. 

Calf's  head  may  also  be  served  with 
a    Sauce    Allemande.     (See    recipe.) 

Calf's  Head  a  la  Torture. 

Tete   de   Veau   a   la   Tortue. 

1    Calf's    Head.     2   Large    Onions. 

1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms.    1  Lemon. 

Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic.  1  Wineglass  oif  S'herry. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Butter. 

2  Eggs.     1   Pint  of  Consomme   or  Water. 

Slice  the  onions  and  mince  the  garlic. 
Put  the  butter  into  a  stew  pot,  and  as 
it  melts  add  the  onions  and  let  them 
brown;  then  add  the  garlic  and  let  H 
come  to  a  rich  brown.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  sifted  well,  and,  as  this 
becomes  brown,  add  one  pint  of  con- 
somme or  water  if  you  have  not  the 
broth.  Then  add  the  chopped  thyme  and 
bay  leaf  and  the  peel  of  O'ue  lemon,  cut 
very  fine,  and  the  juice.  Let  all  this 
simmer  for  about  ten  minutes  and  then 
cut  up  the  calf's  head  and  add  it  to  the 
mixture.  After  fifteen  minutes  add  a 
half  can  of  mushrooms,  and,  in  a  few 
minutes,  one  small  glass  of  Sherry  wine. 
Let  it  all  cook  about  ten  minutes,  and 
then  season  well,  according  to  taste.  Let 
all  cook  about  half  an  hour  lO'Uger,  and, 
when  ready  to  serve,  place  the  calf's 
head  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  pour  the 
gravy  over  and  range  the  mushrooms 
around.  Garnish  them  with  the  pieces 
of   a   flat   omelet,   which   you   have   made 


from  the  two  eggs,  and  cut  into  diamond 

shapes,    alternating    with    toast    butterel 

and  cut  into  diamond-shaped  Croutons. 

Calf's    Brains    Tried. 

Cervelles    de   Veau    Marinade. 

Calf's    Brains.     1    Onion. 

2  Sprigs  of  Parsley.     1  Bay  Leaf. 

Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 

Plunge   the    brains    into    cold    water   to 
disgorge   them    of   all    blood   and   remove 
the   fine   skin    and   blood   that   surrounds 
them.     Then  blanch  with  scalding  water 
In  five  minutes  take  tiiem  out  of  the  hot 
water  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Add  a  tiny  onion, 
sliced  fine;    parsley  and.  bay  leal,  whole. 
Let    them    simmer    gently    for    five    min- 
utes.    Then  take  from  the  fire  and  drain. 
When   cold,    cut  into    pieces   of  a  square 
inch  and  dip  in  a  batter  or  tomato  sauce, 
and  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  patting 
gently.     Drop    into    boiling   lard   and-fry 
to  a  golden  brown.     Take  out  and  drain 
of    grease    and    serve    on    a   bed   of    fried 
parsley.    A  garnish   of  boiled  green  peas 
is  also  very   pretty   and  palatable. 
Call's  Brains,  Brown  Butter   Sauce. 
Cervelles  de  Veau  au   Beurre  Noir. 
Calf's   Brains. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1   Small    Onion.     1  Bay   Leaf. 
1   Sprig   of   Thyme.     1   feprig   ol   Parsley. 
Sauce    aux    Beurre   Noir. 

Prepare  the  brains  as  menti&ned  above 
by  boiling,  and  then  place  in  a  saucepan, 
with  a  tablespoonlul  ol  butter.  Cut  up  a 
tiny  onion,  and  add  also  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  bay  leal  and  parsley,  all  minced 
very  fine.  Add  to  the  butter,  and  then 
add  the  brains  cut  in  slices  a  half  inch 
thick.  Season  again  to  taste.  Fry  for 
five  minutes,  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  aux 
Beurre    Noir.     (See    recipe.) 

Call's  Liver  Fried. 

Foie   de  Veau   Saut^  a   la  Lyonnaise. 
1  Pound  of  Liver.     2  Onions. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Lard    or    Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Slice  the  liver  very  fine  into  pieces  of 
about  three  inches  in  length  and  one  in 
width.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Slice  two  onions  very  fine  and  take  R 
tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter  and  put 
into  the  frying  pan.  \^'^heu  it  heats,  add 
the  onions,  and,  as  they  brown,  place  on 
top  the  slices  of  liver.  Let  them  brown 
on  one  side  about  two  minutes  and  a 
half,  and  then  turn  on  the  other.  Let 
this  side  brown  two  minutes  and  a  half 
longer  and  serve  with  the  onion  sauce,  to 
which  add  a  teaspoonful   of  vinegar. 

Call's    Liver    a    la    Bonr^eoise. 

Foie  de  Veau  Saute  a  la  Bourgeoise. 

1  Call's  Liver,     1   C  arret.     1  Onion. 
1  Turnip.     1  Tablespoonlul  ol  Butter. 
1    Bay    Leal. 
1  Pint  ol  Broth  or  ^Vatcr. 
1  Tablespoonlul   ol  Flour. 
S'alt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 
Wash   the   liver   and   lard    it   well   with 
needles.     Put  a   tablespoonlul   ol  lard   or 
butter    Into    the    Irying    pan.    and    whon 
hot,    add    immediately   the    onion,    carrot 
and  turnip,  all  sliced  very  fine,  and  then 
the  fine  herbs,  nicely  minced.     Let  these 
brown,  and  add  the  liver.     Pour  over  this 
about  two   spoons  of  WTiite  wine  or  one 
of    Sherry.     Add    about    a    pint    of    con- 
somme or  boiling  water.    Season  highly, 
cover  the  saucepan  well,  set  back  on  the 


59 


fire,  and  let  it  simmer  for  about  half  an 
hour,  and  serve. 

Fried    Ijiver    and   Bacon. 

Foie  de  Veau  Frit  au  Petit  Saie. 

1  Pound   of   Calf's    Liver. 
1-2  Pound  of  Brealtfast  Bacon. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   Salt. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Flour. 

Black  Pepper   to   Taste. 

Slice  the  liver  into  pieces  of  about 
three  inches  in  lengrth  and  one-quarter 
of  an  inch  in  thickness;  slice  the  bacon 
very  thin,  having  as  many  slices  of  the 
bacon  as  of  the  liver.  Put  the  bacon  in 
the  frying  pan  and  fry  brown;  then  place 
it  in  a  heated  dish  and  set  over  a, pot  of 
boiling  water  and  cover  to  keep  warm. 
Dust  the  liver  with  flour,  after  having 
seasoned  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
fry  it  in  the  bacon  fat.  When  it  cooks 
about  five  minutes,  allowing  two  minutes 
and  a  half  to  each  side,  take  out  and 
arrange  on  the  same  dish  with  the  bacon 
in  alternate  slices.  Garnish  nicely  with 
parsley  and  serve. 

Calf's  Feet,  Plain. 

Pieds   de  Veau   au   Naturel. 

3   Calf's   Feet. 
3  Quarts  of  Cold  Water.    1  Gill  of  Vine- 
gar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1  OniO'n.     1  Carrot. 

12   Whole   Pepper    Corns. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Salt. 

1   Herb    Bouquet. 

Split  each  of  the  calf's  feet  in  two. 
Then  carefully  remove  the  larger  bones, 
and  cut  the  meat  into  pieces  of  about 
one  inch  square.  Soak  well  in  fresh 
water  for  one  hour.  Then  wash  and 
drain  thoroughly.  Put  two  tablspoonfuls 
of  flour  and  three  quarts  of  cold  water 
into  a  saucepan;  SFtir  well,  mixing  thor- 
oughly; place  the  feet  in  the  mixture  and 
add  one  onion  (chopped  fine),  twelve 
whole  peppers,  one  carrot  cut  into  fine 
shreds;  the  herb  bouquet  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  salt.  Let  the  feet  boll 
briskly  for  about  one  hour.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  drain  well.  They  are  now 
ready  to  serve  with  any  sauce  thai  may 
be    desired. 

Calf's  Feet  a  la  Foulette. 

Pieds  de  Veau  a  la  Poulette. 

Calf's  Feet. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Sifted   Lard. 

1  Pint  of  Water.     1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

Tolk  of  1  Egg.    Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Boil  the  calf's  feet;  then  take  out  the 
larger  bones  and  cut  in  pieces  of  about 
an  Inch  square.  Prepare  a  Sauce  a  la 
Poulette  by  putting  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and,  as  it  melts, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour, 
add  about  one  pint  of  the  water  in  which 
the  calf's  feet  have  been  boiled.  Stir 
well  and  throw  in  the  calf's  feet,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and,  if  desired, 
about  a  quarter  of  a  can  of  chopped 
mushrooms.  Let  it  boil  about  five  min- 
utes, and  then  take  off  the  stove  and 
add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  (beaten  well), 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  serve. 

Calf's  Feet,  Xomato  Sance. 

Pieds    de    Veau,    Sauce    Tomato. 

3  Calf's  Feet. 
A  Sauce   a    la    Tomate    (1   Pint). 


Prepare  the  feet  as  in  the  recipe  "Calf's 
Feet,  Plain,"  and  pour  over,  when  ready 
to  serve,  a  Sauce  a  la  Tomate.  (See 
recipe.) 

Calf's  Feet,  Fiquante  Sauce, 

Pieds   de   Veau,    Sauce   Piquante. 

3  Calf's  Feet. 

1  Pint  of  Sauce  Piquante. 

Prepare  the  calf's  feet  as  in  recipe  for 

"Calf's  Feet,  Plain,"  and  add,  when  ready 

to    serve,    one    pint    of    Sauce    Piquante. 

(See  recipe.) 

Calf's    Feet,    Sauce    Bemoulade. 

Pieds  de  Veau  a  la  Sauce  Remoulado. 

3   Calf's  Feet. 

Sauce  Remoulade,  1  Pint. 

Prepare    the    feet   as   in   the   recipe    for 

Calf's    Feet   Plain,   and   pour   over,   when 

ready    to    serve,    one    pint    of    hot    Sauce 

Remoulade.     (See    recipe.) 

Calf's    Feet,    Italian     Sauce. 

Pieds   de  Veau   a  la   Sauce  Italienne. 

3  Calf's  Feet. 

1  Pint  of  Sauce  a  I'ltalienne. 

Prepare   the    feet   as   in    the   recipe    for 

"Calf's  Feet,   Plain,"  and  serve  with  one 

pint  of  Sauce  a  I'ltalienne.     (See  recipe.) 

SWEETBREADS. 

Ris   de  Veau. 

Sweetbreads  are  the  glands  in  the 
throat  of  a  suckling  calf.  "■  hey  are  found 
in  the  throat  of  all  very  young  suckling 
animals,  but  are  more  considerable  in 
the  throat  of  the  young  calf,  and  even 
then  at  the  largest  are  seldom  bigger 
than  a  man's  fist  doubled  over.  The 
sweetbreads  are  the  glands  used  by  the 
calf  in  sucking,  and  are  only  found  in 
the  young  calf  during  the  period  when  it 
is  fed  on  its  mother's  milk.  When  a  calf 
is  turned  out  to  grass,  the  sweetbreads, 
or  milk  glands,  begin  to  grow  smaller, 
and  in  three  or  four  days  disappear,  no 
longer  standing  out  in  a  mass  of  deli- 
cate flesh,  but  hanging  long  and  soft  and 
flabby.  On  account  of  their  delicacy, 
sweetbreads  have  always  been  the  object 
of  particular  attention  of  good  cuisin- 
teres,  because,  in  a  fine,  fresh  state  and 
with  proper  preparation  they  can  bo 
made  not  only  into  a  most  delightful  and 
palatable  dish,  but  are,  perhaps,  the  most 
recherche  of  all  meat  dishes.  At  least 
the  sweetbreads  have  always  been  so 
considered  by  the  French,  who  set  the 
world  the  lesson  of  good  eating  hundreds 
of  years  ago;  and  the  Creole  chefs  of 
New  Orleans,  improving  upO'U  old  French 
methods  of  cooking,  as  well  as  originat- 
ing their  own  delicious  combinations, 
sustain  the  verdict  of  the  gourmets  of 
the  ancient  mother  country. 

HoTV   to   Blanch    S^veetbreads. 

Select  three  fine  pairs  of  sweetbreads 
and  clean  and  trim  nicely.  Soak  them 
for  at  least  two  and  a  half  ho-urs  in  cold 
fresh  water,  pouring  off  the  water  from 
time  to  time  till  three  separate  waters 
have  been  used.  About  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  may  be  allowed  for  the  first  two 
waters.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  each 
water.  After  soaking  for  the  time  speci- 
fied, drain  the  sweetbreads  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water  and 
set  on  the  fire;  add  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  let  them  blanch  till  they 
come  to  a  boil.  Then  drain  and  set  them 
in  cold  water  to  freshen.  Drain  thor- 
oughly, press  them  into  shape  and  lay 
on  a  napkin  in  a  cool  place.  They  arc 
now  ready  for  general  use.  The  sweet- 
breads   should    be    pressed    down    gently 


60 


with  a  pound  weight,  in  order  to  flatten 
well. 

Sweetbreads      Larded,      With      Mushroom 

Sauce. 

Ris  de  "Veau  Pique  aux  Champignons. 

6   Sweetbreads.     1    Carrot. 

4    Thin    Slices    of    Bacon. 

1   Onion.     1-2  Can  of  Musnrooms. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour.    1  Tablespoon - 

ful   of  Butter. 

1     Whole     Sprig     of     Thyme.     3     Bay 

Leaves. 

1  Wineglass  of  Madeira  or  STierry. 

1   Pint   of   Consomme. 

Salt  and  Pepper.     Croutons. 

Soak  the  sweetbreads  in  clear,  cold 
water  as  soon  as  you  come  from  market, 
for  they  are  so  delicate  that  they  spoil 
very  easily.  Wash  well,  to  take  off  all 
the  blood;  wash  again  in  a  clear  cold 
water,  and  parboil  them  for  ten  minutes 
Then  drain  them  of  all  water,  press  them 
Into  shape  and  put  them  on  a  clean  clotn 
on  a  table  and  cover  with  a  plank  and 
put  a  weight  upon  them  to  flatten.  When 
cold,  clean  with  a  knife,  cutting  off  all 
the  outside  nerves,  veins  and  fibers, 
without  breaking  the  sweetbreads,  how- 
ever. Cut  fat  lard  into  little  strips  like 
matches,  and,  with  a  larding  needle. 
lard  the  sweetbreads,  slipping  the  needle 
in  on  one  side  and  bringing  out  on  the 
other.  Lard  each  sweetbread  eight  times. 
Then  slice  one  onion  and  one  carrot  very 
fine;  mince  three  bay  leaves  and  a  whola 
sprig  of  thyme.  Take  a  very  thin  slice 
of  very  fat  bacon,  cut  it  into  thin  strips 
and  cover  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan 
with  these.  Lay  the  sweetbreads  on  top 
and  put  on  tc-p  of  these  the  sliced  onion, 
carrot  and  finely  minced  herbs.  Salt 
and  pepper  by  sprinkling  nicely.  Cover 
this  with  a  few  fine  strips  of  fat  bacon. 
Cover  the  whole  with  a  brown  paper, 
which  has  been  well  greased  with  butter, 
and  put  the  pan  in  a  slow  oven  with  the 
paper  on  top.  Let  the  sweetbreads  bake 
for  about  twenty  minutes,  basting  occa- 
sionally. In  the  meantime  make  a 
Sauce  a  I'Espagnole  as  follows:  Chop  a 
few  pieces  of  beef  very  fine,  or  else  use 
good  stock.  If  meat  is  used  boil  in  about 
two  pints  of  water.  When  it  is  reduced 
to  about  one  pint,  take  off  and  strain. 
Take  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard, 
and  brown  lightly  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Then  add  the  water,  and  dis- 
solve well,  stirring  constantly  to  pre- 
vent being  lumpy.  Add  to  this  a  half  can 
of  mushrooms,  and  let  it  simnier  a  few 
minutes,  and  then  add  a  glass  of  Sherry 
or  Madeira  w^ine.  Let  it  coo-k  rapidly 
for  about  ten  minutes.  In  the  meantime, 
the  sweetbreads  will  have  been  cooked 
to  a  nicety.  Take  them  out  of  tl^e  pan 
and  put  one  by  one  into  the  sauce,  and 
let  them  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Serve 
with  buttered  Croutons  cut  in  dice 
shapes.  Sweetbreads  are  always  served 
with  fresh  young  green  peas.  This  is  a 
famous  Creole  dish. 

Sweetbreads    With    Green    Pens. 

Ris  de  Veau   Saute  aux   Petit  Pois. 

3    Pairs    of    Sweetbreads. 

1  Onion.    1  Carrot.    4  Slices  of  Fat  Bacon. 

1  Can  of  French  Petit  Pois,  or  1  Pint 

of   Fresh    Young   Green    Peas. 

3  Bay  Leave.^i. 
1    Sprig   of  Thyme,     3   Cloves. 
1-2   Pint    of   Fresh    Milk.     1   Pint   of   Con- 
somme. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Croutons. 


Prepare  the  Sweetbreads  in  exactly 
the  same  manner  as  indicated  in  th? 
above  recipe,  which  is  the  very  nicest 
way  in  which  they  can  be  served.  Make 
the  sauce  as  indicated,  letting  it  brown 
slightly,  and,  instead  of  the  mushroonas, 
add  a  can  of  French  Petit  Pois  or  a  pint 
of  fresh  young  green  peas  that  have  al- 
ready been  boiled  well  and  drained  from 
all  liquor.  Place  the  sweetbreads  in  one 
by  one  and  let  them  cook  for  ten  min- 
utes longer  and  serve  with  the  sweet- 
breads placed  in  the  center  of  the  dish, 
and  the  green  peas  around  them  as  a 
garnish. 

Sweetbreads    With    Truffles. 

Ris  de  Veau  aux  Truffes. 

3  Pairs  of  Sweetbreads. 

4    Slices    of    Fat    Bacon.     1-2    Can    of 

Truffles. 

1    Onion.     1    Carrot. 

1  Glass  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  Wine. 

1  Pint   of  Consomme  or   Water. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

3    Bay    Leaves.     1    Sprig    of   Thyme. 

Salt   and    Pepper. 

Croutons. 

Prepare  the  Sweetbreads  in  exactly 
the  same  manner  as  in  the  recipe  "Sweet- 
breads with  Mushrooms."  When  making 
the  sauce,  add  a  wineglassful  of  Ma- 
deira or  Sherry,  and  one-half  can  of 
truffles  cut  in  halves.  Serve  with  the 
truffles  as  a  garnish  about  the  sweet- 
breads. This  is  a  very  expensive  dish, 
very  recherche   and  very   elegant. 

Sweetbreads   a   la    Creme. 

Ris  de  Veau   it  la   Creme. 

3    Pairs    of    Sweetbreads. 

10    Mushrooms.     1  1-2    Tablespoonfuls    os 

Butter. 

1  1-2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1  Pint  of  Cream. 

Clean  and  parboil  the  Sweetbreads  for 
twenty  minutes.  Then  remove  all  veins 
and  nerves,  and  chop  the  meat  into 
pieces  of  about  an  inch  and  a  half.  Chop 
the  mushroc'ms  very  fine  indeed.  Put 
the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and,  when  it 
melts,  add  the  flour,  being  careful  not 
to  let  it  brown.  When  perfectly  smooth, 
add  the  milk  and  stir  constantly  until 
it  boils.  Then  add  the  chopped  mush- 
rooms and  let  them  simmer  for  five  min- 
utes. Season  well  to  taste  with  salt  and 
white  pepper.  Then  add  the  Sweet- 
breads and  cook  for  five  minutes  longer 
and  serve  hot.  At  luncheons  and  din- 
ners the  Sweetbreads  a  la  Creme  are 
served  in  small  silver  shells  or  fancv 
paper  cases. 

Sweetbreads   a    la    Financiere. 

Ris  de  Veau   a  la   Financiere. 

3    Pairs    of    Sweetbreads.     1-2    Pound    of 

Butter. 

3    Carrots.     2    Sprigs    of    Th>'me. 

3   Bay   Leaves. 

1  Pint   of   Beef   Consomme   or   Water. 

1  Pint  of  Rich  Chicken  Broth  or  Water. 

2  Truffles.     12     Mushrooms.     18     Stoned 

Olives. 
12  Godiveau  Quenelles. 

2  Blanched  Chicken  i^ivers. 

V   Half  Pint  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  Wine. 

A   Dash    of   Cayenne. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Croutons  Fried  in  Butter  to  Garnish. 

Select  fine,  fresh  Sweetbreads  and  pre- 
pare as  in  the  recipe  for  Sweetbreads 
Larded     AVith     Mushrooms.     Parboil     for 


61 


twenty  minutes;  then  (Jrain  of  all  wa- 
ter; press  them  into  shape,  lay  on  a  clean 
napkm  and  cover  with  a  plank  and  place 
a  weight  upon  them  to  press  and  make 
solid.  Take  a  piece  of  fine  salt  pork, 
and  cut  into  little  thin  strips  like  matches 
and  lard  the  Sweetbreads  with  this,  using 
a  very  fine  larding  needle,  and  following 
implicitly  the  directions  given  in  the  re- 
cipe for  Sweetbreads  Larded  With  Mush- 
room Sauce.  Lard  each  Sweetbread  eight 
times.  Then  take  a  shallow  saucepan 
and  put  within  a  half  pound  of  butter. 
When  the  butter  melts,  lay  in  the  Sweet- 
breads, one  by  one.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  very  lightly,  and  add  the 
three  carrots,  sliced  fine,  and  the  onion, 
sliced  very  fine.  Add  the  finely  minced 
thyme  and  bay  leaves.  Butter  a  piece 
of  brown  paper  and  cover  the  saucepan; 
then  set  in  the  oven  and  let  the  Sweet- 
breads cook  slowly  till  they  are  of  a 
bright  golden  brown.  Frcoi  time  to  time 
uncover  the  saucepan  *  and  turn  the 
Sweetbreads,  so  that  all  portions  of  them 
may  be  evenly  colored.  When  they  have 
reached  this  beautiful  color  add  one  pint 
of  good  beef  broth  (Consomme  or  Bouil- 
lon), and  let  them  simmer  for  a  half  or 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  WJien  near- 
ly ready  to  serve,  prepare  a  Sauce  a  la 
Flnanoiere,  as  follows:  Take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  melt  and  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  add  gradually  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour;  blend  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  till  very  smooth,  and 
moisten  with  one  pint  of  rich  chicken 
broth  and  set  on  the  fire.  Add  the  truf- 
fles, nicely  sliced;  a  dozen  and  a  half 
stoned  olives;  the  blanched  chicken  liv- 
ers, cut  in  pieces;  the  mushrooms,  nice- 
ly chopped;  a  half  pint  of  Madeira  or 
Sherry  wine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  dash  of  Cayenne  or  Tabasco.  Let 
the  sauce  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  It 
should  be  of  the  consistency  of  rich 
cream.  Place  the  sauce  in  a  round  dish, 
lay  the  Sweetbreads  over  it,  garnish 
with  the  Godiveau  Quenelles  and  Crou- 
tons fried  in  butter  and  send  to  the  table 
hot. 
SWEETBREADS  A  LA  POULETTE. 
Ris  de  Veau  a  la  Poulette. 

3   Pairs   of   Sweetbreads. 

The    Tolks    of    4    Eggs.     The    Juice    of    1 

Lemon. 

1-2  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Chopped   Parsley  to    Garnish. 

A  Sauce   a   la   Poulette. 

Parboil  the  sweetbreads  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  then  make  a  Sauce  a  la 
Poulette  (see  recipe),  adding  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  and  seasoning  to  taste.  But 
do  not  add  the  eggs  till  the  sauce  has 
been  taken  from  the  fire  or  it  will  curdle. 
When  the  sauce  is  made,  place  the  Sweet- 
breads in  it,  one  by  one,  and  let  it  come 
to  the  boiling  point.  Then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
that  have  been  well  beaten,  and  a  half 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Sprinkle  with 
finely-chopped  parsley,  pour  over  the 
Sweetbreads  and  serve. 

Sweetbreads  in  Casseroles. 

Riz    de    Veau    en    Casseroles,    ou   Vol-au- 
Vent. 

3   Pairs    of    Sweetbreads. 

1-4    Can    of    Mushrooms. 

1   Glass   of  Sherry   Wine. 

A  Sauce  a  la  Poulette. 

Parboil  the  Sweetbreads  in  exactly  the 
same  manner  as  in  the  above  recipe  for 
Sweetbreads  a  la  Poulette.  Six  Sweet- 
breads  will   suffice.     Cut   them   into    dice 


pieces  after  parboiling;  add  a  quarter 
of  a  can  of  finely-chopped  mushrooms 
to  the  sauce  and  a  glass  of  Sherhy  wine. 
Take  two  dozen  oysters  and  cut  in 
pieces,  taking  oft  all  the  hard  portions. 
Add  the  chopped  Sweetbreads  to  the 
sauce,  and,  after  ten  minutes,  add  the 
oysters.  Let  them  cook  for  five  minutes, 
have  ready  a  pan  filled  with  a  rich  Vol- 
au-Vent  crust,  pour  the  mixture  in  and 
serve.  Or  make  the  Vol-au-Vent  crust, 
which  is  very  difficult  (see  recipe),  into 
small  shells,  bake  and  fill  with  the 
Sweetbreads.  This  is  an  elegant  dish 
for  fashionable  luncheons,  but  quite 
above  the  ordinary  householder's  purse. 
The  Sweetbreads  are  generally  served  In 
casseroles   or   fancy   cases. 

Sweetbreads    Crepinettes. 

Crepinettes    de    Ris    de   Veau. 

3   Pairs    of  -Sweetbreads. 

1  Onion.    1  Bay  Leaf.     1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1-2  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1    Tablespoonful    Butter. 

1   Teaspoonful    of   Prepared   Mustard. 

Clean  and  parboil  the  Sweetbreads  as 
already  shown  in  recipe.  Chop  an  onion 
very  fine  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Let  them  sim- 
mer without  browning;  add  one  bay  leaf, 
one  sprig  of  thyme,  one-half  clove  or 
garlic,  a  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mus- 
tard, and  mix  well.  Then  add  a  pint  of 
water  and  stir  well;  then  add  the  Sweet- 
breads, which  have  been  chopped  very 
fine  and  formed  into  "Crepinettes,"  or 
little  fringed  balls,  by  patting  with  the 
hand;  let  them  simmer  for  about  fifteen 
minutes  longer.  Serve  with  any  sauce, 
preferably  a  Cream  Sauce.  (See  recipe 
under  chapter  "Sauces  for  Fish,  Meats 
etc.") 

Fried    Sweetbreads    Breaded. 
Ris   de   Veau  Panees. 

3    Pairs    of   Sweetbreads. 

1    Egg.     Grated    Bread    Crumbs. 

A  Cream  Sauce. 

■Wash  and  parboil  the  Sweetbreads  and 
then  trim  off  all  tendons  and  nerves. 
Cut  into  pieces  of  about  two  inches  long 
and  roll  first  in  a  well-beaten  egg  and 
then  in  bread  crumbs.  Drop  into  boiling 
fat  and  fry  till  a  golden  brown.  Servo 
with  a  Cream  Sauce. 

Broiled    Sweetbreads. 
Ris   de  Veau  Grillees. 

3    Pairs    of    Sweetbreads. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Melted  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Parboil  the  Sweetbreads  and  then  re- 
move all  nerves.  Cut  into  halves.  Brush 
with  melted  butter  and  place  on  the  grid- 
iron. Broil  nicely,  and,  when  well  col- 
ored, take  off,  pour  melted  butter  over 
them,  season  again,  and  serve  very  hot. 
This  is  a  delicious  breakfast  dish. 
Sweetbreads  Smothered 
Ris  de  Veau  Braisses. 

3  Pairs  of  Sweetbreads. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Carrot.     1  Onion. 

2  Sprigs  of  Thyme.     2  Bay   Leaves. 

1    Pint    of   Consomme    or    Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Prepare  the  Sweetbreads  as  in  the  re- 
cipe for  "Sweetbreads  Larded  With 
Mushrooms."  Put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
let  them  brown  slightly.  Add  a  finely- 
sliced   carrot  and   onion   and   the  minced 


62 


herbs.  Season  lightly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cover  the  saucepan  with  a  butteroi 
paper,  and  then  cover  closely.  Occasion- 
ally uncover  and  turn  the  Sweetbreads 
till  they  are  all  bro'wned  evenly  to  a  nice 
g-olden  brown.  When  they  have  reached 
this  color  add  the  pint  of  Consomme  or 
water  and  cover  again  and  let  them 
simmer  for  about  twenty  minutes.  They 
are  now  ready  to  serve  with  any  kind 
of  sauce  or  garnish  that  may  be  desired. 
In  serving  Sweetbreads  thus  prepared, 
always  place  the  sauce  on  the  dish,  first 
having  the  dish  very  hot;  lay  the  Sweet- 
breads over  the  ^auce,  garnish  nicely 
with  fried  Croutons  and  serve. 

Sweetbreads  thus  prepared  may  be 
served  with  a  Sauce  a  I'Oiselle,  Sauce 
Salpicon,  Sauce  a  la  Soubise,  Sauce  a  la 
Bearnaise,  Sauce  a  la  Duxelle,  Sauce  aux 
Gourmets,  with  a  Puree  of  Spinach,  or 
with  hot  Crepes. 

TBIFE. 

Tripe. 

Tripe,  which  is  the  large  stomach  of 
ruminating  animals,  is  generally  cleaned, 
scraped,  bleached  and  prepared  by  the 
butchers  before  it  is  sold.  It  is  nutri- 
tious and  digestible.  To  prepare  the  tripe 
properly  for  cooking,  wash  it  carefully 
in  several  waters.  When  thcTOUghly 
clean,  put  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one 
of  vinegar,  and  let  the  tripe  boil  for  five 
hours  at  least.  It  is  always  best,  if  tripe 
is  to  be  used  for  breakfast,  to  prepare  it 
and  give  the  long  boiling  the  day  before. 
Drain  thoroughly.  Then  it  is  ready  for 
preparation  according  to  any  of  the  fol- 
lowing  recipes: 

Stewed   Tripe. 

Tripe   Sautee. 

2  Pounds  of  Prepared  Tripe. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Flour. 

1  Sprig   cf  Parsley.     1   Bay    Leaf, 

1-2  Clove  of  Garlic.     1-2  Pint  of  Milk. 

Chopped  Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Take  the  prepared  tripe  and  cut  into 
strips  of  about*  one  finger  length  and  a 
half  inch  in  width.  Put  a  tablespoonful 
in  a  saucepan;  add  a  finely  sliced  onion, 
a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  bay  leaf,  minced. 
Stir  in  the  melted  butter  without  letting 
it  brown,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour.  Stir  well  and  add  a  pint  of 
milk.  Stir  constantly  till  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  seasoning  to  the  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Then  add  the  well-seasoned 
tripe  and  let  it  cook  over  a  moderate 
fire  for  about  five  minutes. 

Stewed   Tripe  a  la  liyonnaise. 

Tripe   Saute   a,   la   Loyinnalse. 

2  Pounds    of  Prepared   Tripe. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1   Sprig   of  Parsley.     1   Bay   Leaf. 

1-2  Clove  of  Garlic. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lenon,  or  a  Teaspoonful 

of  Vinegar. 

Chopped   Parsley  to   Garnish. 

Place  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  add  one  chopped  onion, 
one  carrot,  finely  sliced;  a  sprig  each 
of  thyme,  parsley,  bay  leaf  and  salt  and 
pepper.  Let  it  brown  slightly  and  place 
the  tripe  on  top,  and  add  a  half  clove 
of  garlic,  minced  very  fine.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley  and  add  the  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Let  it  all  simmer  for  a 
few  minutes  and  then  add  a  half  cup  of 
broth  or  hot  water.     Season  to  the  tasto; 


let  it  simmer  for  twenty  minutes   longer 
and    serve. 

Tripe    »    la    Foulette. 
Gras-Double  a  la  Pouiette. 

2  Pounds  of  Tripe. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1   Sprig  of  Parsley.     1   Bay   Leaf. 

The  Yolks   of  2  Eggs. 

A    Sauce    a    la    Poulette. 

Having  prepared  the  tripe  according 
to  the  directions  given  unfier  the  head- 
ing of  "Tripe,"  make  a  rich  Sauce  a  la 
Poulette,  always  omitting  the  eggs  till 
later.  (See  recipe.)  Take  eight  small 
white  onions  that  have  already  been 
boiled  in  plain  water  until  they  are  per- 
fectly tender,  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Let 
them  stew  for  about  five  minutes.  Then 
add  the  tripe,  which  has  been  cut  into 
pieces  of  three  inches  in  length  and  one- 
half  inch  in  width,  and  stew  the  whole 
gently  for  about  a  half  hour.  Take  otl 
the  fire  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs,   stirring   constantly,   and   serve   hoc 

Fried    Xripe. 

Tripe  Frite. 

2  Pounds  of  Tripe. 
1    Egg.     Grated    Bread    Crumbs. 
Parsley   and    Lemon   to    Garnish. 

Prepare  the  tripe,  boil  well,  and  cut 
into  pieces  of  three  inches  in  length  and 
one  in  width.  Roll  it  in  a  beaten  egg 
and  then  roll  in  grated  bread  crumbb. 
Drop  in  boiling  lard  and  try  to  a  gol- 
den brown.  (S'ee  directions  for  frying.) 
Take  off  the  fire  and  place  on  a  bed  of 
fried  parsley  and.  garnish  with  sliced 
lemon.  Serve  with  a  Sauce  Piquante  or 
a  Sauce  Poivrade.  (See  recipe  for  meat 
sauces.) 

Tripe  u  la   Creole. 
Oras-Double   a  la   Creole. 

2    Pounds    of    Tripe. 
12  Tomatoes,   or  a  2-Pound  Can. 
2  Onions.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1  Square  Inch  of  Lean  (Ham. 
2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 
3  Sprigs   Each  of  Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
A    Dash    of   Cayenne. 
Clean   the  tripe  well,  and  boil  till  ten- 
der. Cut  it  into  slices  of  about  two  inches 
long  and   half  an   inch   wide.     Take  two 
onions  and  slice  them  fine,  and  a  table- 
spoonful   of   butter.     Put   in    a    saucepan 
together  and  let  them  smother  well.  Then 
chop  about  one  inch  square  of  lean  ham 
very  fine,  and  add.     Take  two  cloves  of 
garlic,    chopped    fine,    with    three    sprigs 
each  of  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  minced  very 
fine.     Put    in    a    saucepan,    and    let    all 
brown.     Then    add    about    twelve    large, 
tresh  tomatoes,  or  the  contents  of  a  two- 
pound  can.     Season  all  to  taste  with  salt 
and  Cayenne  pepper.     Let  it  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  and  then  add    the  tripe,  and  let 
all     smother     for     twenty-five     minute3. 
Season  to   taste,   and   serve  hot. 

Tripe  a  la  Mode  de  Caen. 

Gras-Double  a  la  Mode  de  Caen. 

3  Pounds  of  Tripe.     3  Onions.    3  Carrots. 

1  Dozen  Whole  Bay  Leaves. 

1   Dozen  Whole   Cloves. 

1   Dozen    Whole  Allspice. 

3  Cloves    of    Garlic    (whole). 
1  Ounce  of  Thyme  (whole). 

2  Dozen  Pieces  of  Bacon,  2  Inches  Square. 

1-2  Bottle  of  White  Wine. 

1   Cup    of    Broth    or   Water. 

Salt,  Cayenne  and  Chili  Pepper  to  Taat^. 


63 


Take  three  pounds  o£  tripe.  Cut  the 
tripe  into  pieces  of  about  two  inches 
square.  Slice  three  onions  and  three 
large  carrots  very  fine.  Take  one  dozen 
whole  bay  leaves,  one  ounce  of  thyme. 
whC'le;  one  dozen  whole  cloves,  and  the 
same  number  of  allspice,  three  whole 
cloves  of  garlic,  two  dozen  pieces  of  very 
thin  bacon  cut  into  pieces  of  two  inches 
square.  Have  ready  a  two-gallon  earth- 
en jar  that  can  stand  baking  in  an  oven. 
Put  in  the  bottom  of  the  jar  a  thin  layer 
of  butter.  Place  on  top  a  thin  layer  of 
bacon,  then  a  thin  layer  of  onions,  car- 
rots, bay  leaves,  thyme,  garlic,  spicos, 
dividing  into  two  equal  portions  the 
whole  amount.  Sprinkle  over  the  whole 
salt,  Cayenne  and  Chili  pepper.  On  top 
of   this   lay    one-half   of   the   tripe.     Ove* 


the  tripe  place  a  layer  O'f  bacon;  then 
A^egetables,  seasonings,  etc.  Over  this 
place  another  layer  of  tripe,  and  rem- 
nants of  thyme,  bay  leaf,  vegetables, 
bacon,  etc.,  as  below,  this  being  the  last 
layer.  Pour  over  all  a  half  bottle  of 
White  wine  and  one  cup  of  broth  or 
water.  Cover  the  jar  closely  with  a 
layer  of  Pie  Paste  (Pate  Brisee — see  re- 
cipe), set  in  a  very  moderate  oven,  and 
let  it  cook  slowly  for  at  least  five  hours 
of  constant,  steady  cooking.  This  is  a 
very  recherche  old-fashioned  Creole  dish, 
and  very  excellent.  Some  add  to  the 
tripe  a  small  quantity  of  calf's  head  or 
feet.  In  making  this  dish  you  will  need 
little  else  for  dinner  besides  a  soup  or 
gumbo. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 
MUTTON 

Du  Mouton. 


The  leg,  shoulder  and  loin  of  the  mut- 
ton are  used  as  roasting  pieces.  The 
brisket  and  neck  are  used  for  soups  and 
stews,  and  from  the  loins  are  cut  the 
delicate  French  chops  or  cutlets  of  mut- 
ton. Mutton  is  so  susceptible  of  ele- 
gant seasoning,  and  so  easily  impreg- 
nated with  the  different  aromatic  herbs 
used  in  cooking  that  it  becomes  not  only 
most  agreeable  to  the  taste,  but  tender 
and  very  easily  digested. 

Something      to      Bemember      in      Cooking 

Mutton, 

Remember  that  mutton  must  never  be 
breaded,  and  mutton  chops  fried.  Tou 
will  hear  of  mutton  chops  en 
papilotte,  in  imitation  of  the  ways  m 
cooking  veal  chops,  but  the  Creoles  veiy 
wisely  and  very  sensibly  refrain  from 
cooking  mutton  in  any  other  ways  than 
those  given  in  this  book.  No  good  Creole 
cC'Ok  will  eat  a  fried  mutton  chop. 

Boast  Leg:  of  Mutton, 

Gigot   Roti. 

1   Leg   of  Mutton. 
iSalt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Select  a  fine,  tender  leg  of  mutton. 
Wipe  thoroughly  with  a  damp  towel  and 
dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  thoroughly 
rubbing,  so  that  the  meat  may  be  pene- 
trated by  the  seasoning.  Place  the  mut- 
ton in  a  baking  pan,  set  in  a  quick  oven 
and  bake,  basting  every  ten  minutes  or 
so,  allowing  twelve  minutes  to  every 
pound.  The  mutton  must  never  be  over- 
done, but  underdone.  The  Creoles  always 
serve  it  rare.  It  will  require  no  lard- 
ing, for  the  meat  is  rich  and  soon  makes 
sufficient  juice  to  allow  frequent  bast- 
ing. To  ascertain  if  done,  press  with  the 
fingers  or  stick  with  a  fork;  the  .juice 
will  spurt  out,  and  it  is  then  ready  to 
serve.  Decorate  the  bone  with  a  quilling 
of  white  paper,  and  serve  in  its  own 
sauce.  The  dish  on  which  mutton  is 
placed  must  always  be  very  hot,  as  also 
the  plates  on  which  it  is  to  be  served. 

A  very  nice  way  to  serve  it,  and  one 
generally  used  by  the  Creoles,  is  <-0  put 
a  circle  of  nicely-boiled  ana  browned 
turnips  around  the  dish,  and  serve  with 
the   gravy  of  the  mutton. 

Boast    Saddle    of    Mutton. 

Selle    de    Mouton    Rotie. 

A  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Currant    Jelly. 


A  Saddle  of  Mutton  is  two  loins.  Pro- 
ceed to  roast  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  for  a  single  leg.  S'erve  with  Currant 
Jelly. 

Boast  Loin  of  Mutton. 

Filet    de    Mouton    Roti. 
A  Filet  of  Mutton. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Garnish  of  Green  Peas. 
The    filet    of    mutton    is    a    square    out 
from   the    loin.     Proceed    to    dredge    with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  roast  in  exactly  the 
same  manner  as  leg  of  mutton.     The  Cre- 
oles   serve    the    filet    very    often    with    a 
garnish  of  green   peas    (Petit  Pois)    piled 
around. 

Bailed   Leg   of   Mutton,    Caper    Sauce. 

Gigot     de     Mouton     Bouilli,     Sauce     aux 
Capres. 

1    Leg    of    Mutton.     1  'Herb    Bouquet. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A    Caper    Sauce. 

Rub  the  leg  of  mutton  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  into  which  you  have  thrown  the 
herbs,  bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper,  allow- 
ing a  teaspoonful  each  of  the  two  latter 
ingredients.  Put  the  leg  of  mutton  into 
the  water  being  very  careful  to  have  it 
well  covered  with  water,  else  the  meat 
will  blacken.  Let  it  boil  gently,  but 
steadily,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to 
every  pound  of  meat.  When  done,  place 
on  a  dish  and  serve  with  a  Caper  Sauce. 
In  serving  slice  nicely  and  put  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  on  each  slice,  and  pour 
over  the  Caper  Sauce.  (See  recipe  Caper 
Sauce.)  Mutton  thus  prepared  is  also 
served  with  a  Puree  of  Turnips. 

Mutton  Stew. 

Ragout  de  Mouton  aux  Pommes  de  Terre. 

4  Pounds    of   the   Brisket   of   Mutton. 

6  Irish   Potatoes. 

3  Large  Onions.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

1-2  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1-4  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

2  Quarts  of  Water. 

1    Square    Inch    of    Ham,    Chopped    Very 

Fine. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Cut  the  mutton  into  pieces  of  about 
an  inch  square  and  season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  one-quarter  of  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  into  the  ^gtewpot,  and 
when  it  melts  add  the  thinlysliced  onions. 
Let  these  brown  for  a  few  minutes  and 
then  add  the  mutton  and  the  ham, 
chopped     very     fine.     Let    this     continue 


64 


browning,     and     when     slightly     browned 
add    one    tablespoonful    of    finely    sifted 
flour  and  stir  well.     Then  add  the  finely - 
minced  bay  leaf  and  a  half  clove  of  gar- 
lic,   minced    fine.     Brown    lightly,    for    a 
mutton   stew  must  never  be  dark.     After 
twenty  minutes,   add  two   quarts   of  boil- 
ing water   and   let  it  boil    for   about  ten 
minutes  longer,  seasoning  to  taste.     Then 
add  the  potatoes,  cut  into  halves,  and  let 
the  mixture  cook  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  longer,  making  one  hcur  and  a  half 
in  all.     Let  it  simmer  gently  all  the  time, 
so  that  the  meat  may  be  perfectly  tender. 
Mutton    Stew    With    Turnips. 
Ragouts  de   Mouton   aux  Navets. 
4   Pounds    of   the    Brisket    of    Mutton. 
6    Turnips.     3    Large    Onions. 
1  Bay  Leaf.     1-2   Clove   of  Garlic. 
1-4  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 
2  Quarts  of  Water. 
1    Square    Inch    of    Ham,    Chopped    Very 
Fine. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Cut  the  mutton  into  pieces  of  about 
an  inch  in  length  and  thickness,  and 
season  well.  Proceed  to  make  the  stew 
as  mentioned  above,  only  instead  of  ad- 
ding potatoes,  add  turnips  parboiled,  and 
cut  into  halves  or  quarters.  This  is  a 
very  delicious  stew.  The  neck  of  the 
mutton  may  also  be  used  for  stews,  but 
preferably  the  brisket. 

Shoulder     of     Mutton      Smothered     With 
Tamlps. 

Epaule  de  Mouton  Braisee. 

1  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 
1  Carrot.  1  Onion.  1-2  Stalk  of  Celery. 
4  Cloves.  1  Bay  Leaf.  6  Turnips. 
If  the  mutton  does  not  appear  very 
tender  the  process  of  smothering  it  will 
make  it  so.  It  is  well  to  beat  the  leg 
well  with  a  rolling  pin,  and  you  will  be 
sure  of  good  and  tender  eating.  Season 
well.  Slice  an  onion  and  one  carrot  very 
fine;  chop  fine  a  half  stalk  of  celery, 
and  put  these,  with  the  shoulder  of  mut- 
ton, into  a  deep  baking  pot.  Cover  weU 
and  let  the  mutton  juice  permeate  the 
vegetables  and  brown  them.  Then  add 
the  minced  bay  leaves  and  cloves;  cover 
and  let  these  brown,  and  after  ten  min- 
utes add  one  quart  of  boiling  water. 
Season  well  again,  and  set  on  a  steady 
fire,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  every 
pound.  An  hour  before  serving  add  six 
whole  turnips,  which  have  been  peeled 
and  parboiled,  and  let  these  remain 
smothered  with  the  mutton.  S'erve  wiiU 
the  turnips  as  a  garnish.  This  dish  is 
highly  recommended. 

Broiled     Mutton     Chops. 

Cotelettes   de   Mouton   Grillees   et  Panees. 

6   Mutton    Chops. 

Butter.     Salt  and  Pepper. 

In  selecting  mutton  chops  for  broilinfr, 
remember  that  the  smaller  French  chops, 
which  are  cut  from  the  breast  of  the 
mutton,  are  generally  served  at  dinner, 
and  the  loin  chops  for  breakfast.  The 
breast  chops  are  daintier  in  appearance, 
but  the  loin  chops  are  sweeter  and  the 
meat  is  niore  solid.  The  French  chop.s 
should  always  be  cut  thinner  than  the 
loin   chops. 

Season  the  chops  well  with  -salt  an'l 
pepper  and  brush  with  melted  butter  and 
a  few  bread  crumbs.  Have  the  grldtron 
very  hot  and  place  the  chops  upon  it 
In  a  few  seconds  turn  the  cho-p  and  let 
this  side  cook.  The  blood  will  be  run- 
ning out,  and  the  chop  is  done.  Place 
on  a  platter,  butter  thickly  and  sprinkle 


with    chopped    parsley    and    serve    very 
hot. 

Mutton    Cutlets. 

Cotelettes   de  Mouton, 

4  Mutton   Cutlets. 
Butter.     Salt  and  Pepper. 

The  cutlets  are  slices  from  the  thick 
part  of  the  leg  of  the  mutton  and  are 
very  excellent  eating.  Trim  off  the  outer 
skin  and  broil  in  the  same  manner  as 
mutton  chops.  They  are  very  delicious 
served  for  dinner  with  a  garnish  of  Puree 
of  Spinach.     (See  recipe.) 

Mutton    Chops,    Brewer's    Style, 

Cotelettes   de   Mouton   a.   la   Brasseur. 

6     Mutton     Chops.     2     Tablespoonfuls     of 

Butter. 

Juice    of   Lemon. 

3   Shallcts,   Chopped  Fine. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

iS'elect  six  thick  chops  from  the  loin  cf 
the  mutton.  Trim  neatly  and  season 
well  with  salt  and  black  pepper  and  a 
dash  of  Cayenne.  Rub  lightly  with  but- 
ter on  either  side  and  broil  on  a  hot 
charcoal  fire.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish  and 
pour  over  the  chops  a  sauce  of  melted 
butter,  seasoned  nicely  with  salt  and 
pepper,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  thrts 
minced  shallots.     Serve  hot. 

Mutton   Hash. 

Hachis  de  Mouton. 

3  Cups  of  Hashed  Mutton. 

6    Potatoes.     1   Herb    Bouquet. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Lard    or    Butter. 

This  is  a  splendid  way  of  utilizing  tUe 
left-over  mutton.  After  having  taken  off 
all  the  rough  edges  c-f  the  roast  and  cut 
out  the  gristle  and  hard  membrane,  hash 
the  mutton  into  pieces  of  about  one  inch 
in  size.  Take  six  left-over  tomatoes,  or 
freshly  boiled,  and  cut  into  quarters. 
Chop  fine  one  herb  bouquet.  Place  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  or  a  half  table- 
spoonful of  lard  into  the  stewpot,  and  as 
it  melts  add  the  mutton  seasoned  weU, 
and  a  few^  minutes  later  the  fine  herbs 
Mince  the  clove  of  garlic  if  the  flavor 
is  liked  and  add.  Stir  constantly  without 
browning  much,  and  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Let  this  brown  very  slightly 
and  then  add  the  tomatoes.  Cover  and 
let  all  simmer  for  about  twenty  minutes, 
and  then  pour  over  a  pint  of  boiling  wa- 
ter. Season  again  to  taste  and  set  back 
on  the  stove  and  let  it  simnaer  gently  for 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Cut 
some  Croutons  and  fry  them  in  butter; 
place  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  the  hash. 
The  Creoles  often  add  several  poached 
eggs  if  the  sauce  is  not  thick  enough. 
It  is  also  a  frequent  custom  to  add  a 
quarter  or  a  half  can  of  mushrooms  to 
the  hash,  but  this  is  always  a  matter  of 
taste    and    economy. 

Mutton    Fe«t    a   la   Ponlette. 

Pieds  de  Mouton   a  la  Poulette. 

12    Mutton    Feet. 

A    Sauce  a   la   Creme. 

The    Juice    of   1    Lemon. 

1-2  Tablespoonful  of  French  Vinegar. 

1    Gill    of  Water.     The   Yolks   of   2  Eggs. 

1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms   (if  desired). 

This  is  a  famous  Creole  dish.  Scald 
the  mutton  feet  in  boiling  water  and  re- 
move every  vestige  of  wool  that  may 
adhere,  cleaning  and  scraping  the  feet. 
Then  place  them  in  a  pot.  cover  well 
with  boiling  water,  add  half  a  lemon  (in- 


65 


eluding  peel  and  meat)  to  the  water,  and 
salt  well.  In  the  meantime,  prepare  a 
Sauce  a  la  Poulette  as  follows:  Make  a 
Cream  Sauce  (see  recipe  Meat  Sauces) 
and  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  or  halt 
a  tablespoonful  of  good  vinegar.  Take 
the  mutton  feet  out  of  the  water  in 
which  they  have  been  boiled,  take  out 
the  big  bones  from  the  feet.  Put  the 
mutton  feet  into  the  Sauce  a  la  Poulette, 
add  a  gill  of  water,  let  all  simmer  about 
five  minutes,  and  then  take  off  the  fire 
and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
well,  stirring  well  Into  the  sauce.  Serve 
hot.  Many  of  the  Creoles  add  a  half  can 
of  mushrooms  to  the  mutton  feet  before 
putting  in  the  sauce.  This  makes  the 
dish  very  delicious,  increasing  the  flavor. 

Mutton  Feet  a  la  liyonnaise. 

Pieds    de    Mouton    a.    la    Lyonnaise. 

12    Mutton    Feet. 

2  Onions.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

-     1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1    Pint    of    Broth.     Salt    and    Pepper    to 

Taste. 

Croutons. 

Clean  and  boil  the  mutton  feet  in  the 
same  way  as  indicated  in  the  above  re- 
cipe. -When  done  take  out  the  large 
bones  and  cut  the  feet  into  two-inch 
pieces.  Cut  two  onic'ns  very  fine,  minc- 
ing them,  and  brown  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  slightly 
brown  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Mix 
well,  making  a  nice  Brown  Roux  (see  re- 
cipe under  chapter  on  "Sauces  for  Meats, 
Fish,  etc.")  and  then  add  about  a  pint 
of  the  broth  in  which  the  muttO'U  feet 
have  been  boiled.  As  it  boils,  skim  off 
the  grease  and  let  it  simmer  for  about 
ten  minutes.  Then  add  the  mutton  feet 
and  let  them  simmer  ten  minutes  longer, 
and  serve  hot,  with  Croutons  of  bread 
fried  in  butter.  Mutton  feet  may  also  be 
served  with  a  Puree  of  Onions.  (See  re- 
cipe.) 

Stuffed   Mutton    Feet. 

Pieds  de   Mouton   Farcis. 

12  Mutton   Feet      1-2  Cup   of  Wet  Bread. 

1   Hard-Boiled   Egg.    1   Spoon    of    Butter. 

1   Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

3  Thin  Slices  of  Veal. 

1   Bay   Leaf.     1   Sprig   of  Thyme. 

3   Carrots.     2  Onions. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean'  the  mutton  feet  well,  according 
to  directions  given,  and  bO'il  and  take 
out  all  the  bones.  Take  a  half  cup  of 
wet  bread  and  squeeze  well.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  in  a 
little  butter  and  add  a  chopped  egg 
Stuff  the  feet  with  this,  splitting  down 
the  length  and  sewing  up  to  prevent  the 
dressing  escaping.  Take  a  saucepan  and 
put  in  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  lay 
over  it  thin  slices  of  veal,  well  seasoned, 
and  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  of  thyme 
and  geranium  (minced  very  fine),  three 
chopped  carrots,  and  two  onions 
(chopped  very  fine).  Pour  over  this  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  about  a  half  hour,  turning  the  veal, 
that  it  may  cook  well  and  be  thoroughly 
penetrated  by  the  juices.  Put  the  stuffed 
mutton  feet  on  top,  cover  closely,  and 
let  all  simmer  for  a  half  hour  longer. 
Then  unsew  the  mutton  feet,  lay  them 
on  the  slices  of  veal,  garnish  nicely  and 
serve  with  a  Sauce  a  I'Bspagnole,  Sauce 
aux"  Tomates,  a  S'auce  aux  Ognons,  or 
Sauce  a  la  Provencale.  The  latter  two 
are  highly  recommended. 


Sheep   Tongue   Smothered. 

Langues  de  Mouton  Braisees. 

6  Tongues.    1  Large  Onion,  Cut  Bline. 

2   Carrots,    Cut    Pine. 

1  Herb   Bouquet,   Minced   Very   Fine. 

3  Pickles.     1-4  of  a  Cup  of  Capers. 

1  Pint   of  Boiling   Water. 

2  Slices  of  Bacon. 

Scald  and  blanch  the  tongue,  remov- 
ing the  skins.  Throw  them  into  cold 
water.  Dry  and  pique  or  lard  very  deli- 
cately with  larding  needles.  Season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Slice  the  bacon 
into  fine  strips  and  lay  in  the  bottom 
of  a  saucepan;  place  the  lamb  tongues 
over  this.  Place  on  top  another  fine 
layer  of  bacon  in  very  fine  strips.  Add 
the  minced  carrots,  onion,  herbs,  and  salt 
and  pepper  again  to  taste.  Let  it  sim- 
mer for  about  fifteen  minutes,  a.nd  then 
moisten  with  about  a  pint  of  boiling  wa- 
ter or  broth.  Let  it  cook  over  a  slov/ 
fire-  about  three  hours.  Then  take  out 
the  tongues,  place  them  on  a  hot  dish, 
strain  the  sauce  through  a  sieve,  set 
back  on  the  stove  a  few  seconds,  and 
add  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  capers,  and 
three  pickles,  sliced  fine.  Stir  well  and 
let  it  boil  up  once.  Pour  over  the  tongues 
and  serve. 

Lamb  tongues  are  prepared  in  the  same 
manner   when   braised   or   smothered. 

Sheep    Brains. 

Cervelles   de  Mouton. 

1-2  Pound   of  Brains. 

1   Onion.     1  Bay   Leaf. 

Grated  Breadcrumbs. 

Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Plunge  the  brains  into  cold  water  to 
disgorge  them  of  all  blood  and  remove 
the  fine  skin  and  blood  that  surround 
them.  Then  blanch  with  scalding  water. 
In  five  minutes  take  them  out  of  the  hot 
water  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Add  a  tiny  onion, 
sliced  fine,  parsley  and  a  whole  bay  leaf. 
Let  them  simmer  gently  for  five  minutes. 
Then  take  from  the  fire  and  drain.  When 
cold  cut  into  pieces  of  a  square  inch  and 
dip  in  a  batter  or  tomato  sauce,  and  then 
in  grated  breadcrumbs,  patting  gently. 
Drop  into  boiling  lard  and  fry  to  a  gol- 
den brown.  Take  out  and  drain  off 
grease,  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  fried  par.'^- 
ley.  A  garnish  of  boiled  green  peas  is 
also  very  pretty  and  palatable. 

Sheep    Brains,    BroTvn    Sauce. 

Cervelles  de  Mouton,  au  Beurre  Noir. 

Prepare  the  brains  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  indicated  in  the  above  recipe 
and  serve  with  Brown  Butter  Sauce.  (See 
recipe.) 

Sheep    Kidneys. 
Rognons    en    Brochettes. 

6  Kidneys. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Slice  the  kidneys  very  thin  and  wash 
well,  then  scald  and  wipe  dry.  Pass  * 
skewer  thro-ugh  each  kidney,  after  sea- 
soning well,  and  brush  with  melted  but- 
ter. Place  on  a  double  broiler  and  cook 
for  five  minutes,  allowing  two  and  a  half 
minutes  to  each  side.  Place  on  a  hot 
dish  and  pour  over  melted  butter  and  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Garnish  nicely  with 
parsley  and  serve  hot. 

I.AMB. 
Agneau. 

Lamb  is  in  season  from  April  to  Sep- 
tember.    Like  very  yc-ung  veal,  it  is  un- 


66 


wholesome  and  tasteless  if  eaten  too 
young.  A  lamb  should  always  be  two 
months  old,  else  it  will  be  what  the  Cre- 
oles call  "une  viande  gelalneuse,"  or  a 
jelly  meat  not  fit  to  eat  and  very  diffi- 
cult to  manage.  The  best  way  to  cook 
lamb  is  to  roast  it  or  bake  it.  The  loin 
of  the  lamb  is  cut  into  chops;  the  brains, 
tongue,  cutlets,  tendons  and  feet  are 
cooked  in  the  same  manner  as  those  of 
sheep,  and  it  would  be  superfluous  to  re- 
peat the  recipes.  Stewed  Lambs'  Ton- 
gues, or  "Langues  d'Agneau  Saute," 
served  with  a  Sauce  Tomate,  or  a  Sauce 
a  la  Tartare,  is  an  excellent  entree,  or 
luncheon   dish. 

Boast    I^amb,    Mint    Sauce. 

Quartier    d'Agneau    Roti,    Sauce    Menthe 

The  (Hind  Quarter  of  a  Lamb. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Parsley  to   Garnish.     Mint  Sauce. 

This  is  the  standing  dish  for  the  Easter 
dinner  in  New  Orleans.  Select  a  fint*. 
fresh,  white  hind-quarter  of  lamb.  Roast 
in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  indicated 
In  "Roast  Leg  of  Mutton"  (see  recipe), 
only  allow  about  twenty  minutes  to  the 
pound  in  cooking.  Serve  with  garnish  of 
parsley  and  a  Mint  Sauce.  (See  recipe.) 
Roast  L/amb  is  always  served  with 
fresh,  young  green  peas  and  asparagus 
tips. 

Boast   Lamb    a   la   Bearnaise. 

Agneau   Roti   a.  la   Bearnaise. 

The  Hind  Quarter  of  a   Lamb. 

3    Sprigs    Each    of    Thyme,    Parsley    and 

Bay  Leaf. 

6  Minced  Shallots. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Cup    of    Grated    Bread    Crumbs. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Parsley    and    Sliced    Lemon    to    Garnish. 

Select  a  fine,  white  hind-quarter  of  the 
lamb;  lard  it  in  the  same  manner  as 
given  for  larding  "Roast  Filet  of  Beef." 
(See  recipe.)  Rub  well  with  butter  on 
top  and  sprinkle  over  thickly  with  the 
soft  of  bread  crumbs,  minced  parsley, 
thyme,  bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper  and 
minced  shallots.  Set  in  the  stove  and 
cover  with  a  buttered  brown  paper.  Let 
it  roast,  allowing  eighteen  or  twenty 
minutes  to  the  pound,  in  a  quick  oven 
and,  when  done,  take  off  the  paper, 
sprinkle  again  lightly  with  grated  bread 
crumbs;  let  it  brown  and  set  in  a  hot 
dish;  sprinkle  over  with  lemon  juice; 
garnish  the  dish  with  sprigs  o-f  parsley 
and  sliced  lemon,  and  serve,  carving  in 
slices  and  placing  a  quarter  of  a  lemon 
on   each   plate. 

Filet    of   Lanob    Boasted    and    Larded. 

Filet  d'Agneau  Roti  et  Pique. 

A  Filet  of  Lamb. 

Lard   Sufficient  to   Lard  Thoroughly. 

1    Small    Onion.     1    Bay    Leaf. 

4    Cloves,    if    desired. 

1 1-2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    GJace.     (See    recipe.) 

1   Glass   of   Madeira   or   Sherry   Wine,    or 

Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Trim  the  filet  nicely,  remO'ving  the 
outer  muscular  skin.  Lard  the  filet  well, 
using  larding  needles.  The  lard  must  be 
very  thin,  like  a  shoestring.  The  larding 
is  done  by  filling  the  needles  with  the 
lard  and  pushing  them  through  the  filet 
as  far  as  they  will  go.  If  the  needles 
are  long  enough  they  will  come  out  on 
the  other  side  of  the  filet,  leaving  the 
lard  within.  Repeat  this  process  all  down 


the  center  and  along  the  sides  of  tho 
filet,  about  an  inch  apart,  and  have  the 
rows  neat  and  even.  If  you  have  not  a 
larding  needle,  make  incisions  with  a 
knife  and  push  the  lard  in  with  your 
finger,  but  the  filet  is  never  as  juicy  and 
tender,  nor  does  it  look  so  clean  aiid 
even  when  baked.  When  well  larded, 
dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub- 
bing this  thoroughly  into  the  beef.  Cut 
up  one  small  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  and 
mash  four  cloves,  and  place  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  baking  pan.  Lay  the  larded 
filet  on  this  bed,  the  larded  side  being 
uppermost.  Put  small  bits  of  butter  equal 
to  a  half  teaspoonful  on  top,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  thirty  minutes.  This 
dish  is  always  eaten  rare.  To  ascertain 
if  sufficiently  done,  stick  a  fork  into  the 
filet;  if  the  blood  bubbles  out,  it  is 
ready  to  serve.  The  meat,  when  done, 
Is    always     spongy    and     elastic    to    the 

tOTICh. 

In  the  meantime,  prepare  the  follow- 
ing Brown  Sauce:  Take  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  one  of  Glace  (see  recipe 
under  chapter  "Sauces  for  Meats,  Fish, 
etc.")  and  three  of  water,  smoothly 
rubbed,  and  melt  in  a  saucepan,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  burning.  When 
brown,  add  one  glass  o<  Madeira  or 
Sherry  wine  and  a  half  cup  of  water. 
S'eason  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour 
over  the  filet,  which  must  be  placed  In 
a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  fresh,  young 
green  peas. 

Filet    of    Lamb    n    la    Bechamel. 
Filet   d'Agneau   a   la  Bechamel. 
A  Filet  of  Lamb. 
A   Sauce   a   la  Bechamel. 
Roast  the  lamb  as  in  the  manner  given, 
and    prepare    a    "Sauce    a    la    Bechamel." 
(See    recipe.)     Slice    the    lamb    and    pour 
over   the   sauce   and   serve.     This   is  con- 
sidered an  excellent  entree. 

Broiled   Lamb    Chops. 

Cotelettes    d'Agneau    Grillees. 

6    Lamb    Chops. 

Butter,   Salt  and   Pepper. 

Broil    in    exactly    the   same    manner   as 

Mutton    Chops,    only   let    them    remain   a 

little    longer    on    the    griddle,     until    the 

chops  are  firm  under  pressure  of  a  foric. 

Season    the    chops    well    with    salt   and 

pepper  and  brush  with  melted  butter  and 

a  few  bread  crumbs.     Have  the  gridiron 

hot   and   place   the    chops   upon   it.    In  a 

few   seconds  turn   the  chops  and  let  the 

other    sides    cook.     Place    on    a    platter, 

butter  thickly  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 

parsley,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Smothered    Breast    of    Lamb. 

Poitrine  d'Agneau  Braisee. 

Shoulder  and  Breast  of  a   Lamb. 

2   Sprigs    of   Parsley. 

1  Carrot.     2  Onions. 

1   Clove  of  Garlic,     1-2  Can  of  Tomatoes. 

A   Sprig  Each   of  Thyme  and  Bay   I*at. 

Bread  Crumbs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

Pepper  and  Salt  to  Taste. 

1  Pint   of   Water. 

Select  nice,  fresh  breast  and  shoulder 
of  lamb.  Have  the  butcher  remove  all 
the  bones;  wash  or  wipe  carefully  with 
a  damp  towel.  Take  one  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  which  have  been  wet  and 
squeezed,  and  season  well  with  one  grat- 
ed onion  and  clove  of  garlic,  and  choppcl 
parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf  and  spicea 
to  taste.  Put  in  a  frying  pan,  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  try  about 
five  minutes.  Place  this  dressing  info 
the  open  side  of  the  lamb,  and  roll  it  up 


67 


in  its  own  meat,  and  tie  it  securely  witn 
thin  strips  of  twine  tliat  the  dressing 
may  not  escape  In  baiting.  Slice  the  car- 
rot, onion  and  turnip  very  fine,  and  fry 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  deep 
pan.  When  brown,  add  the  lamb  and 
cover  and  let  it  simmer  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  let 
them  brown;  then  add  just  enoug-h  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  the  meat  (one  pint) ; 
set  the  pot  back  on  the  stove  and  let  H 
simmer  gently  and  steadily  for  about 
three  hours,  or  according  to  the  size  of 
the  roll.  SSrve  with  the  vegetables  dishud 
around  and  with  its  own  gravy. 

-Minced    Lamb. 

Agneau    Emince. 

2  Pounds   of   Cold   Minced   Lamb. 

1-2  Can  of  Mushroc-ms. 

4    Ounces    of    Butter.     1-2    Pint    of    Veal 

Stock. 
11-2    Gills    of    Cream.     Tolks    of   2    Eggs. 

Place  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  add 
one  chopped  onion  and  brown  slightly; 
add  the  mushrooms,  and  season  to  tast<-. 
Then  add  the  half  pint  of  veal  broth,  if 
you  have  it;  if  not,  boiling  water  or  milk, 
and  let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes;  thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  blended  flour; 
add  the  minced  lamb  and  a  gill  and  a 
half  of  cream;  let  all  simmer,  stirrinrj 
constantly;  and  when  done,  which  will 
be  in  about  ten  minutes,  take  off  the 
fire;  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten, 
and  stir  constantly.  Place  in  a  hot  dish 
garnish  with  Croutons  (buttered)  and 
serve.  This  is  a  very  nice  breakfast  dish 
from  the  left-over  lamb. 

^Epigram    of    Lamb. 

Epigramme  d'Agneau. 

2    Breasts    of    Lamb. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Salt. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper. 

3  TablespoonfHls   of  Butter  or  Olive  Oil. 

Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 

Take  two  breasts  of  Lamlj;  tie  them 
and  put  them  to  boil  in  soup  stock  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Then  drain  well  and 
extract  all  the  bones.  Press  them  down 
with  a  heavy  weight  on  top.  When  thor- 
oughly cold,  cut  each  breast  into  three 
triangular-shaped  pieces,  dip  them  irt 
olive  oil,  or  melted  lard,  or  butter,  and 
season  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Roll 
each  piece  in  fresh  bread  crumbs  grated, 
and  broil  on  a  slow  fire,  allc-wing  four 
minutes  to  each  side.  Serve  with  a  pint 
of  hot  Macedoine  or  any  garnish  that 
may  be  desired,  arranging  the  breast 
over  the  garnish.  The  epigram  may  be 
served  a  la  Soubise  with  a  hot  Soubise 
sauce,  or  a  la  Chicoree  with  a  hot  chic- 
ory sauce,  or  a  la  Louisianaise  with  a 
hot  Madeira  wine  sauce,  and  garnish  of 
fried  sweet  potatoes. 

Lamb    en   Blanquette. 

Blanquette   d'Agneau. 

3    Pounds    of    Brisket    of    Lamb. 

1  Onion.     2  Carrots. 

1-2  Dozen  Cloves.     1  L,eek. 

1    Bouquet    of    Thyme,    Parsley    and   Bay 

Leaf. 

1-4    Pound    of    Butter.    2    Tablespoonfuls 

Flour. 

The  Tolks  of  2  Eggs. 

1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms  or  Green  Peas. 

The  brisket  of  the  lamb  is  best  for  this 
disih.  Cut  into  pieces  of  two  square 
inches.  Put  in  a  stew  pot  and  cover  with 
a  half  gallon  of  water,  and  add  salt  and 
pepper  and  two  onions  and  one  carrot, 
chopped  fine.     L«t  it  boil  till  very  tender. 


When  it  reaches  this  stage,  take  the  meat 
out  of  the  saucepan  and  keep  the  water 
in  which  il  was  boiled.  Take  another 
saucepan  and  put  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter in  it,  and  as  it  melts  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  flour.  Let  it  brown  lightly, 
and  add  one  pint  of  the  water  in  which 
the  veal  was  broiled.  Stir  well,  making 
it  very  light,  and  not  thick.  Add  one- 
half  can  of  mushroo'ius,  and  let  the  whole 
boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  so  as  to  be 
very  light.  Then  put  in  the  veal,  which 
is  already  cooked.  Let  it  simmer  for 
about  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  take 
off  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  gravy,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Serve  hot. 

Lamb's  Brains. 

Cervelles  d'Agneau. 
The  recipes  given  for  the  preparation 
of  Sheep  Brains  may  be  followed  in  cook- 
ing Lamb's  Brains.  L,amb  Brains  are 
a  very  delicate  dish.  The  following  re- 
cipe. Lamb's  Brains  a  ta  Remoulade,  how- 
ever, is  a  famous  Creole  dish: 

Lamb's    Brains    a   la    Remoulade. 

Cervelles    d'Agneau    a.   la    Remoulade. 

6  Lamb's  Brains.     1  Pint  of  White  Wine. 

2    Quarts    of    Water.     2    Cloves    of 

Garlic. 

The  Yolks  of  4  Eggs. 

2    Shallots.    1    Herb    Bouquet.     6    Capers. 

3   Small  Vinegar  Pickles. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Parsley. 

4    Tablespoonfuls    of    Olive    Oil. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Vinegar. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Creole    Mustard. 

1-2   Tablespoonful    of   Chives. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Plunge  the  Lamb's  Brains  into  cold 
water,  and  let  them  stand  for  an  hour, 
changing  the  water  several  times.  Pre- 
pare in  exactly  the  same  manner  indi- 
cated for  the  preparation  of  Sheep"Erain5. 
After  removing  from  the  water  and  tak- 
ing off  the  skin,  drain  of  all  water.  Have 
ready  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper  and  an 
herb  bouquet  of  parsley,  bay  leaves  and 
thyme.  W^hen  the  herbs  begin  to  boil 
add  a  pint  of  White  wine  to  the  water, 
as  it  boils  up  again  drop  in  the  brains 
and  let  them  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Re- 
move the  herb  bouquet  and  strain  the 
brains  through  a  sieve. 

Place  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  the 
following  sauce:  Chop  the  shallots  very 
fine  mince  the  garlic  and  mash  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs.  Put  the  vinegar  into  a 
small  saucepan  and  add  the  shallots,  the 
garlic,  and  let  all  boil  till  the  vinegar 
is  reduced  about  one-half.  Then  mash 
the  yolks  of  eggs  in  the  sweet  oil  and 
cut  up  the  capers  and  add  all  to  the  vino- 
gar.  Add  the  parsley  and  the  vinegar 
pickles,  chopped  fine,  and  let  all  come  to 
a  boil.  Then  add  the  chives  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  Creole  mustard.  Mix 
well  and  pour  all  over  the  brains  and 
send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

Lamb's   Feet. 

Pieds  d'Agneau. 
The  various  delightful  ways  that  the 
Creoles  have  of  serving  Mutton  Feet  may 
be  used  in  preparing  Lamb's  Feet,  the 
latter  especially  making  many  delightful 
and  recherche  entrees.  We  have  Pieda 
d'Agneau  a  la  Poulette,"  etc.  (See  re 
cipe  for  cooking  Mutton  Feet,  "Pieds 
d'Agneau  au  Blanc,"  "Pieds  d'Agneau  a 
la  Bourgeoise,"  etc.) 


68 


Lamb's  Feet,  White  Sauce, 

Pieds   d'Agneau,   S'auce   Blanche, 

12   Lamb's    Feet. 

1  Pint  of  Broth.     The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

The  Tolk  of  1  Egg. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Clean  the  feet  well,  and,  after  boiling, 
take  out  all  the  bones,  cut  in  little 
pieces  of  about  two  inches  or  less,  season 
nicely  and  cook  in  a  pint  of  their  own 
water  over  a  slow  fire.  Add  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  then  throw  in  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg  to  bind  nicely,  and  serve 
hot. 

Lamb's  Feet  a  la  Bourgreolse, 
Pieds    d'Agneau   a   la   Bourgeoise. 

12  Lamb's  Feet.    1  Pint  of  Broth. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

2  Sprigs    of    Parsley.     The    Juice    of    1 

Lemon. 
Clean  tfie  feet  well  and  boll  in  the  man- 
ner above  indicated.  When  the  water  is 
reduced,  take  out  the  feet,  cut  in  pieces, 
taking  out  all  the  bones.  Put  back  in 
the  saucepan,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  blended  well  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Stir  well  and  add  two  sprigs 
of  parsley,  minced  very  fine,  and  the 
Juice  of  one  lenion.  Let  this  simmer  for 
ten  minutes  longer  and  serve  hot. 

Broiled    Lamb's    Kidneys. 

Rognons    d'Agneau    Grlllees. 

6  Kidneys. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
The  Juice  of  1  Lemon.     Parsley  to   Gar- 
nish. 
Prepare    in    exactly    the    same    manner 
as  in  the  recipe  for  broiling  Sheep  Kid- 
neys,  and   serve   with   melted   butter  and 


lemon  Juice  and  chopped  parsley,  thrown 
over.  In  all  these  recipes,  where  the  skew- 
er is  used  in  broiling  to  keep  the  kid- 
neys from  separating,  the  skewer  must 
be  drawn  out  before  buttering  and  serv- 
ing. 

Stewed     Lamb     Tongne. 

Langues   d'Agneau   Sautees. 

6   Tongues.     1   Onion. 
1-2   of  a   Small   Carrot,   Cut  Fine. 
1-2  of  a  Small  Turnip,  Cut  Fine. 

1  Pint  of  Broth  or  Water. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1    Bay    Leaf.    2    Sprigs    of    Thyme    and 
Parsley. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Clean  the  tongues;   wash  well  and  boll 
in   clear  water  for   an   hour  and  a  half. 
Then  throw  them  into  cold  water  and  re- 
move the  skins.     Cut  the  vegetables  fine, 
and    put    them    with    the    butter    into    a 
saucepan.    Add  a  pint  of  broth  or  water, 
and    then    add    the    finely-minced    herbs. 
Add    the    tongues    and    let    them    simmer 
gently    for    two    hours.    Serve    hot,    with 
the  gravy  poured  over. 

..Lamb    Xongues    With    Tomato    Sauce... 

Langues    d'Agneau    a    la    Sauce    Tomate. 
6   Tongues.    1    Onion. 

1  Pint  of  Broth  or  Water. 
2   Tablespoonfuls    of   Butter. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

2  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 
A  Tomato  Sauce. 
Cook  the  tongue  as  in  the  recipe  given 
above,  omitting,  of  course,  the  vegeta- 
bles. When  done,  place  the  tongues  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  over  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce 
(see  recipe)  and  serve. 


CHAPTER  XV. 
POBK. 
Du  Cochon. 


The  old  Creoles,  like  their  French  an- 
cestors, hold  that  every  portion  of  the 
hog  is  good,  from  the  head  to  the  feet, 
and  all  portions  are  utilized  in  the  va- 
rious dishes  which  are  so  delightfully 
prepared  in  New  Orleans.  For  roasting, 
the  Creoles  always  use  the  delicate 
"Cochon  de  Lait,"  or  suckling  pig,  if  not 
more  nor  less  than  four  or  five  weeks 
old,  when  the  pig  is  roasted  whole; 
otherwise  the  best  parts  of  the  grown 
hog  for  roasting  are  the  loin  and  the 
leg.  Pork  chops  or  cutlets  are  taken 
from  the  loin.  They  are  used  as  entrees, 
as  are  also  slices  of  cold  ham;  the  kid- 
neys, cooked  in  wine,  and  the  tails  brais- 
ees,  or  smothered. 

Pork  must  always  be  cooked  well  done, 
or  else  it  will  be  dangerous,  unwhole- 
some and  indigestible.  It  must  be  roast- 
ed or  fried.  The  Creoles  will  never  eat 
a  broiled  pork  chop. 

Boast    Loin    of    Pork. 

Longe  de  Pore  Rotle. 

A   Loin   of  Pork. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Parsley  to  Garnish.     Apple  Sauce. 

Score  the  loin  in  close  lines  across  and 
down.  The  lines  should  be  about  a  haif 
Inch  apart.  Dredge  well  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  place  in  the  oven,  letting  it 
cook  slowly  and  long,  allowing  at  leant 
twenty-five  minutes  to  every  pound,  anu 
basting  every  five  minutes  for  the  first 
half  hour  and  every  ten  minutes  there- 
after.   Pork   must   always   be   well   dono. 


When  cooked  thoroughly,  take  out  of  the 
baking  pan,  put  in  a  hot  serving  dish, 
and  garnish  nicely  with  parsley.  Serve 
with  Apple  Sauce  and  a  little  horse- 
radish. (See  recipe  "Sauces  for  Meats,"' 
etc.. 

Boast    Fork, 

Pore    Roti. 

The  leg  and  shoulder  may  be  roasted 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  loin,  allow- 
ing from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes 
to   a   pound   in   cooking. 

Boast    Pig    Stuffed. 

Cochon  de  Lait  Roti  et  Flarcl. 

1  Pig,   Four  or  Five  Weeks   Old. 

3  Large  Onions.  2  Cups  of  Bread  Oumbs. 

S  Sprigs  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

2  Ounces  of  Butter. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Powdered  Sage. 

3  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 
1  Herb  Bouquet. 

In  New  Orleans  the  pig  is  always  sold 
killed  and  cleaned  by  the  butcher.  Wash 
the  young  pig  well,  cleaning  again,  and 
scraping  thoroughly  and  taking  out  all 
remaining  hair  from  the  ears  and  nos- 
trils. Wash  again  thoroughly  in  cold 
water,  inside  and  out,  shaking  the  pig 
vigorously,  head  downward.  'Then  turn 
upwards  and  pour  cold  water  over  it. 
Wipe  dry  inside  and  out  with  a  coarse 
towel,  and  then  rub  well  Inside  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  minced  parsley,  thyme 
and  bay  leaf.    Prepare  a  dressing  as  fol- 


69 


lows:  Wet  the  bread  crumbs  and  squeeze 
thoroughly.  Then  add  the  sprigs  of 
minced  parsley  and  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
the  powdered  sage.  Mix  well.  Season 
all  highly  with  black  pepper  and  salt, 
using  about  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Place 
two  ounces  of  butter,  which  will  be  equal 
to  two  tablespoonfuls,  in  a  frying  pan 
on  the  stove,  and,  when  it  melts,  add 
the  minced  onions.  Let  them  brown,  and 
then  add  the  dressing,  stirring  well,  and 
letting  it  fry  for  five  minutes.  Take  o££ 
and  stuff  the  pig  and  sew  up  the  open- 
ing. Truss  the  fore  legs  forward  and  th3 
hind  feet  forward,  and  close  under  the 
body.  Wipe  the  pig  carefully  with  a 
damp  towel,  and  then  place  a  corn  cob  in 
its  mo'uth  to  keep  it  open.  Rub  the  pig 
all  over  the  outside  with  butter,  dredging 
lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  bake  steadily  for 
two  and  a  half  or  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  size  and  age.  Baste  frequently, 
and,  when  half  done,  rub  again  with  but- 
ter until  the  pan  is  saturated.  Continue 
basting  at  intervals.  When  done,  take 
out  of  the  oven  and  place  on  a  ho>t  dish. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  parsley.  Take  the 
corncob  out  of  the  mouth  and  place  in- 
stead a  nice,  rosy  apple.  Serve  very  hot. 
with  Apple  Sauce.  (S'ee  recipe  "Sauces 
for  Meats,"   etc.) 

Sweet  potatoes  are  a  nice  vegetable  to 
serve  with  roast  pig.  Boil  a  half  dozen 
first  and  then  peel  carefully  and  placa 
them  whole,  about  fifteen  minutes  be- 
fore serving  the  pig  in  the  pan  where  it 
is  roasting;  let  them  soak  in  the  gravy, 
brown  nicely  and  serve  on  a  separate 
platter  or  as  a  garnish. 

Roast    Spare   Bibs. 

Cotelettes    de    Pore    Roti. 

Spare    Ribs.     Salt   and    Pepper   to    Taste. 
A  Garnish  of  Parsley  and  Radish. 

Dredge  the  spare  ribs  lightly  with  salt 
and  pepper,  after  having  washed  well 
and  wiped  dry  with  a  coarse  towel.  Place 
them  in  the  baking  pan  and  dredge  with 
butter;  place  them  in  the  oven  and  cover 
with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper.  Allow 
twenty  minutes  to  every  pound  in  cook- 
ing. About  twenty  minutes  before  serv- 
ing take  off  the  buttered  paper,  dredge 
again,  with  melted  butter,  and  let  it 
brown  nicely.  Serve  with  a  garnish  of 
parsley  and  radishes. 

If  it  is  desired  to  stuff  the  spare  ribs, 
have  the  ribs  cracked,  crosswise,  the 
entire  length,  in  two  places.  Put  a  stuff- 
ing, as  for  roast  pig,  in  the  center,  or 
a  stuffing  made  of  mashed  potatoes  and 
three  hard-boiled  eggs,  mixed  thorough- 
ly. Close  the  ends  of  the  ribs  over  this, 
tie  well  and  roast  as  for  a  roast  pig. 
Serve  with  an  Apple  Sauce  or  a  Sauce 
Piquante.  (S'ee  recipes  "Sauces  for 
Meats,"   etc.) 

Pork  Tenderloins. 
Filet   de    Pore   Saute. 

4  Pork  Tenderloins. 
A    Tablespoonful     of     Lard. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Have  the  tenderloins  cut  thin  and  split 
lengthwise     without     separating.     Season 
well    with   salt   and   pepper.     Have   ready 
a    very    hot    frying    pan,    place    a    table- 
spoonful    of    butter    or    lard    within    and 
add  the  tenderloins.  Turns  every  two  min- 
utes,   not    leaving    them     very    long    on 
either    side    at    a    time.     Be     careful     to 
cook    through    and    throoigh,    smothering 
over    a    low    fire,    and    serve    with    Apple 
Sauce     or     Currant     Jelly.     (See     recipes 
"/Sauces   for   Meats,"   etc.) 


i^'ried    Pork    Chops. 

Cotelettes   de   Cochon   a   la   Poele. 

6  or  8  Pork  Chops. 

Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  pork  chops  and  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  in  grated 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  lard 
twenty-five  minutes,  rfhis  will  be  when 
they  have  reached  a  rich  brown.  Take 
out,  place  on  a  platter,  and  serve  with 
pickles  or  a  Sauce  aux  Cornichons.  (See 
recipe.) 

Piff's  Feet. 
Pieds   de   Cochon. 

6    Pig's    Feet.     2    Bay    Leaves.    ' 
3  Blades  of  Mace.    1  Dozen  WhoI%  Cloves. 
1  Whole  Red  Pepper  Pod. 
1    Pint    of    Good    Cider    Vinegar. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to   Taste. 

Select  young  and  tender  pig's  feet 
Clean  and  scrape  well  and  soak  in  cold 
water  several  hours.  Split  and  crack  the 
feet  in  several  places;  put  them  in  a 
stewpot;  cover  with  cold  water  and  le+ 
them  simmer  until  tender.  When  done, 
lay  in  a  crock.  Boil  the  vinegar,  mace, 
cloves  and  bay  leaves  and  pepper  pod 
together  a  few  minutes.  Season  the  feet 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  the  spiced 
vinegar  over  while  boiling.  Cover  the 
crock  and  set  to  cool.  The  feet  will  be 
ready  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours. 

Fig*B  Feet,   Sauce  Robert. 

Pieds   de   Cochon   a  la  Sauce  Robert. 

3   Pig's    Feet. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Butter   or    Olive    Oil. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Salt. 

1-2  Tablespoonful    of   Pepper. 

Grated  Bread  Crumbs.     1-2  Pint  of  Sauce 

Robert. 

Boil  three  good-sized  Pig's  Feet  in  a 
salted  water,  and  when  tender,  take  out 
of  the  water  and  drain  thoroughly.  Split 
the  feet  in  two  and  place  in  a  dish  and 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
rub  them  with  the  olive  oil  or  butter; 
roll  the  feet  in  grated  bread  crumbs  and 
put  them  to  broil,  allowing  four  minutes 
to  each  side  of  the  feet.  Prepare  a  hot 
Sauce  a  la  Robert  (see  recipe),, and  pour 
this  sauce  in  a  warm  dish.  Lay  the  feet 
nicely  over  it  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Pig's  Feet  Piquant  Sauce. 
Pieds    de    Cochon    a    la    S'auce    Piquante. 

Prepare  in  exactly  the  manner  directed 
above,  and,  after  broiling  the  feet,  serve 
with  a  half  pint  of  Sauce  Piquante.  (See 
recipe.) 

Pig's  Feet,  Tomato   Sauce. 

Pieds  de  Cochon  a  la  Sauce  Tomate. 

Boil  and  prepare  the  feet  as  in  recipe 
for  "Pig's  Feet,  Sauce  Robert,"  and 
serve  with  a  half  pint  of  hot  Tomato 
Sauce. 

Pig's   Feet,   Tartar    Sauce. 

Pieds  de  Cochon  a  la  Sauce  Tartare. 

'  Prepare  the  feet  as  indicated  in  the 
recipe  for  "Pig's  Feet,  Sauce  Robert," 
and  ^erve  with  a  half  pint  of  Sauce  a  la 
Tartare.     (S'ee   recipe.) 

Pig's  Feet,  St.  Hubert  Style. 
Pieds  de  Cochon  a,  la  St.  Hubert. 
Prepare  the  feet  as  in  the  recipe  for 
"Pig's  Feet,  Sauce  Robert."  and  serve 
with  a  half  pint  of  hot  Piquant  Sauce, 
to  which  has  been  added  a  teaspoonful 
of  Crec'le  mustard,  diluted. 


70 


Stuffed    Pig's   Feet   a   la    Perigueux. 

Pieds   de   Cochon   a   la   Perigueux. 

3    Pig's    Feet.     2    Minced    Truffles. 

1-2  Glass  of  Madeira  Wine. 

1  Pound  of  Boned  Turkey  Forcemeat, 

6  Pieces  of  Crepinette. 

1  Egg.     2  Ounces  of  Butter. 

1-2    Pint    of    Hot    Perigueux    Sauce. 

Boil  the  Pig's  Feet,  and  then  split  them 
in  two;  take  out  the  bones,  lay  the  flesh 
on  a  dry,  clean  cloth  and  wipe  well 
Make  a  forcemeat  of  boned  turkey  (see 
recipe  under  chapter  Stuffings  for  Fowls, 
etc.);  add  the  truffles,  which  have  been 
finely  minced,  and  a  half  glass  of  Ma- 
deira or  Sherry  wine.  Mix  this  well  to- 
gether. Crepinette  is  applied  to  a  skin 
found  in  the  stomach  of  the  pig.  Take 
six  pieces  of  this  crepinette,  which  you 
will  have  secured  from  the  butcher;  cut 
them  the  size  of  a  man's  hand  and  lay 
on  a  clean  biscuit  board;  place  on  each 
piece  of  skin  a  portio^n  of  the  forcemeat 
about  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  and  flatten 
out  well.  Place  one-half  of  a  pig's  foot 
on  top  of  this  farcie,  and  cover  with 
another  layer  of  the  stuffing.  On  either 
side  lay  three  thin  slices  of  truffle.-s. 
Wrap  the  crepinettes  up  in  some  fanciful 
shape,  such  as  an  envelope  or  card  case, 
and  dip  them  separately  in  a  well-beate.i 
egg,  and  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs. 
Put  two-  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  or  deep  frying  pan,  cover  close- 
ly, and  let  the  feet  cook  on  a  slow  fire 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  allowing  twelve 
minutes  and  a  half  to  each  side.  Serve 
with  a  pint  of  hot  Perigueux  Sauce.  (See 
recipe.)  Place  the  sauce  in  a  dish,  lay 
the  feet  neatly  over  it,  and  send  to  tli« 
table  hot. 

Stuffed   Pig's   Feet,   Madeira   Sauce. 

Pieds  de  Cochon   a  la   Sauce  Madere. 

Prepare  the  feet  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  indicated  in  the  recipe  given 
above,  and  serve  with  a  pint  of  hot  Ma- 
deira Sauce,  instead  of  the  Sauce  Peri- 
gueux. 

Hogshead   Cheese. 

Fromage  de  Cochon. 
1  Hog's  Head.  1  Lemon. 
1  Glass  of"  Sherry  or  Madeira.  2  Onions. 
1  Slice  of  Ham. 
Thyme,  Bay  Leaf,  Spices. 
Boil  the  whole  of  the  hog's  head,  which 
has  been  well  cleaned  and  scraped.  Add 
four  teaspc-onfuls  of  salt,  and  a  lemon 
cut  in  half.  After  four  hours,  when  the 
head  will  have  become  very  tender,  takfe 
out  of  the  water  and  set  to  cool.  Then 
skin  the  meat  from  the  head.  Preserve 
the  water  in  which  it  has  been  boiled. 
Cut  up  the  entire  head,  ears  and  tongue 
and  two  of  the  feet,  if  you  have  boiled 
them,  too,  into  pieces  of  about  one  inch 
in  length.  Take  two  large  onions  and 
chop  them  very  fine.  Put  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard  and  the  onions  into  a  pot. 
Don't  let  them  brown,  but  slightly  smoth- 
er. Season  well  with  minced  thyme, 
three  mashed  cloves,  a  dash  of  red  pep- 
per (Polvre  Rouge).  Add  a  teaspoonful 
of  water  taken  from  the  reserve  in  which 
the  head  was  boiled.  Let  this  simmer. 
gently;  then  add  one  pint  of  the  water, 
the  peel  of  a  large  lemon,  cut  fine,  and 
one  glass  of  STierry  or  Madeira.  Add 
hot  pepper  to  taste,  seasoning  highlv. 
Boil  well.  Then  add  the  head  and  'a 
slice  of  ham,  cut  into  pieces  of  about 
one  inch  long  and  a  half  inch  wide. 
Season  to  taste,  and  add  five  powdered 
allspice,  one  blade  of  chopped  mace  and 
three  mashed  cloves.  Let  it  boil  for  n 
half    hour    longer,    till    it    comes    to    the 


right  consistency.  When  cooked,  fill  a 
bowl  with  the  cheese  and  put  a  close- 
fitting  dish  on  top,  and  then  place  a 
piece  of  plank  over  this  and  set  a  big 
weight  of  about  fifteen  pounds  or  three 
or  four  flatirons  on  top.  When  the  cheese 
cools,  which  will  be  in  about  five  or  six 
hours,  turn  out  of  the  bowl.  It  will  have 
taken  the  shape  of  the  bowl  and  become 
a  fine  head  of  cheese,  ready  to  be  served. 
This  is  the  Creole's  way  of  making  ho-gs- 
head  cheese,  and  it  cannot  be  improved 
upon. 

Salt      Meat. 

Viande  Salee. 

Salt  pork  enters  so  largely  into  cook- 
ing that  it  will  be  unnecessary  to  devot2 
special  attention  to  it  here.  It  is  useJ 
in  cooking  cabbage  and  pork  and  beans — 
a  most  excellent  dish  for  children — and 
with  nearly  all  green  herbs  and  vegeta- 
bles it  serves  as  a  delightful  flavor.  In 
the  chapter  on  vegetables,  wherever  it  is 
advisable  to  use  salt  or  pickled  pork, 
this  subject  will  be  treated. 

Pickled   Pork. 

Petit  Sale. 

Coarse  Salt  Sufficient  to   Make  a  Brine. 

12    Bay    Leaves.     2    Dozen    Onions. 

25  Pounds  of  Pork.     1  Ounce  of  Saltpetre. 

12  Cloves.     6  Allspice. 

Pork  should  be  pickled  about  twenty 
hours  after  killing.  It  is  pickled  always 
in  sufficient  quantity  to  last  for  some 
time,  for,  if  proper  care  is  taken,  it  wiU 
keep  one  year  after  pickling;  but  it  may 
also  be  pickled  in  smaller  quantities,  of 
three  or  four  pounds  at  a  time,  reducing 
other  ingredients  in  the  recipe  according 
to  quantity  of  pork  used.  To  twenty- 
five  pounds  of  pcTk  allow  one  ounce  of 
saltpetre.  Pulverize  thoroughly  and  mix 
with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  salt  to  thor- 
oughly salt  the  pork.  Cut  the  pork  into 
pieces  of  about  two  pounds,  and  slash 
each  piece  through  the  skin,  and  then 
rub  thoroughly  with  the  salt  and  salt- 
petre mixture  till  the  meat  is  thorough- 
ly penetrated  through  and  through.  Mash 
the  cloves  very  fine  and  ground  the  all- 
spice. Chop  the  onions.  Take  a  small 
barrel  and  place  at  the  bottom  a  layer 
of  salt,  then  a  layer  of  coarsely  chopped 
onions,  and  sprinkle  over  this  a  layer  of 
the  spices  and  minced  bay  leaves.  Place 
on  this  a  layer  of  the  pork;  pack  tight- 
ly; then  place  above  this  a  layer  of  the 
salt  and  seasonings  and  continue  with 
alternate  layers  of  pork  and  seasonings 
till  all  the  pork  is  used  up.  Conclude 
with  a  layer  of  the  minced  herbs  and 
spices  and  have  a  layer  of  salt  on  top. 
Cover  the  preparation  with  a  hoard  on 
which  a  heavy  weight  must  be  placeii 
to  press  down  the  meat.  It  will  be  ready 
for  use  in  about  ten  or  twelve  days. 

HAM. 

Jambon. 

Ham  is  one  of  the  most  useful  articles 
of  supply  that  can  be  kept  in  any  house- 
hold. The  Creoles  generally  keep  a  nice- 
ly boiled  ham  on  hand.  In  case  of  un- 
expected company  for  lunch  or  supper, 
the  ham  is  always  ready  and  sure  to  be 
appetizing.  It  forms  combinations  in 
many  dishes,  and  is  in  itself  a  delightful 
breakfast  dish  and  dinner  entree. 

Fried     Ham. 

Jambon    Bouilll. 

A  tHam,     2  Blades  of  Mace. 

1    Dozen    Cloves.     4    Bay   Leaves. 

Black    Pepper    and    Parsley    to    Garnish. 


71 


Wash  the  ham  well  in  cold  water, 
scraping  off  all  portions  of  mold  or  salt. 
Have  a  large  boiler  of  water  on  the 
stove;  or,  better  still,  the  furnace.  Throw 
in  two  blades  of  mace,  a  dozen  cloves 
and  three  or  four  bay  leaves.  Put  the 
ham  in  the  water  and  let  the  fire  be 
slow,  allowing  the  water  to  heat  grad- 
ually. Do  not  permit  it  to  come  to  a 
good  boil  for  two  hours  at  least,  and  be 
Careful  to  skim  carefully,  so  that  all  re- 
jected substances  may  not  impregnate 
the  ham.  .  Keep  it  simmering  gently,  al- 
lowing twenty  minutes  to  every  pound. 
When  done,  let  the  ham  cool  in  its  own 
liquor,  and  then  put  the  ham  on  a  board, 
cover  with  another  board,  and  lay  a 
weight  over.  Leave  under  weight  sev- 
eral hours.  This  will  enable  you  to  cut 
the  ham  in  thin  slices  after  removing  the 
weight.  Then  carefully  remove  the  skin 
without  taking  off  the  fat.  Sprinkle  it 
in  patches  with  black  pepper  and  orna- 
ment the  shank  bone  with  quilled  paper, 
or  a  paper  frill.  Serve  it  cold  with  a 
garnish  of  parsley.  Cold  boiled  ham 
should  be  sliced  very  thin  and  served 
with  pickles  and  mustard. 

Fried    Ham. 

Jamb  on  Frit. 

8  Thin  Slices  of  Ham. 

Pepper   to   Taste. 

Parsley    to    Garnish. 

Slice  the  ham  thin.  Heat  the  frying 
pan  very  hot.  Lay  in  the  ham  in  its 
own  fat  and  fry  over  a  quick  fire.  Tbe 
Creoles  serve  eggs,  nicely  fried,  with 
ham.  Allow  an  egg  fo  every  slice  oi 
ham.  After  taking  the  ham  out  of  the 
pan,  drop  in  the  eggs.  If  you  do  not 
like  eggs  fried  on  both  sides  (many  pre- 
fer them  so),  baste  the  eggs  with  the  hot 
grease,  and  be  sure  to  cook  the  yolks 
whole.  When  they  are  well  set,  without 
being  hard,  take  the  eggs  out  and  lay  one 
on  each  slice  of  ham.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  Sprinkle  the  eggs  with  salt  and 
pepper  very  lightly  and  serve.  This  is  a 
very   p6-pular  Creole   breakfast  dish. 

If  eggs  are  not  served  with  the  fried 
ham,  and  a  gravy  is  desired,  make  one 
as  follows :  Take  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  add  to  the  remaining  fat  in  the 
pan.  Mix  well  until  smooth.  Add  a  hall 
pint  of  milk  and  stir  until  it  boils;  throw 
in  a  dash  of  black  pepper,  pour  over  the 
ham  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Broiled   Ham. 

Jambon    Grille. 

6  or  8  Thin  Slices  of  Boiled  Ham. 
6  or  8  Slices  of  Buttered  Toast. 
Always  use  boiled  ham  for  broiling. 
Slice  it  about  a  half  inch  thick,  accord- 
ing to  the  number  to  be  served,  and  trim 
off  the  rough  edges.  Have  the  broiler 
very  hot,  lay  the  slices  of  ham  upon  it 
and  brown  well.  Serve  with  buttered 
toast. 

Broiled    Ham     With     Cucumber     Garnish. 

Jambon    Grille    aux    Concombres. 

6  or  8  Slices   of  Boiled  Ham. 
Pepper.     Cucumbers. 

Cut  thin  as  many  slices  of  ham  as  de- 
sired and  broil  evenly  over  hot  coals. 
When  well  brown  butter,  add  pepper, 
sprinkling,  and  serve  with  slices  of  cu- 
cumber that  have  been  steeped  in  salted 
vinegar  several   hours   ranged  around    it. 


Ham    Croquettes. 

Croquettes    de    Jambon. 

2  Cups    of   Finely   Chopped   Boiled    Ham. 
2  Cups  of  Mashed  Potatoes. 

The  Yolks  of  3  Eggs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cream. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 

Chop  the  ham  fine  and  add  to  the 
mashed  potatoes.  Then  add  the  cream 
and  butter  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  well.  Beat  all  together  until 
smooth,  then  add  a  dash  of  Cayenne- 
Mold  the  ham  into  cylinder  shapes  of 
about  a  finger  in  length  and  roll  in  the 
beaten  egg  that  remains.  Then  roll  in 
bread  crumbs  grated  and  fry  in  the  boil- 
ing   fat. 

Ham  puffs  are  made  in  the  same  way, 
only  the  potatoes  are  omitted,  and  a 
stiff  batter  is  used  instead,  made  of  one 
pint  of  flo'ur  and  one  of  water,  three 
eggs  and  four  ounces  of  finely  chopped 
ham.  The  ham  is  placed  in  the  batter 
and  fried  in  boiling  lard  to  a  golden 
brown. 


Ham    Souffle. 


Souffle  de  Jambon. 


1  Cup  of  Minced  iHam. 

3    Eggs,    Beaten    With    the    Whites    and 

Yolks    Separate. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Finely    Chopped 

Parsley. 

Pepper  to  Taste. 

Mix  together  the  chopped  parsley,  ham 
and  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  dash  of  Ca 
yenne  pepper.  Beat  all  very  hard  till  it 
becomes  light.  Then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a 
froth.  Beat  together  sufficiently  to  mix 
well.  Fill  a  dish  and  bake  in  an  oven 
for  eight  or  ten  minutes  and  serve  with 
a  Cream   Sauce.     (See   recipe.) 

Boiled   Bacon. 

Petit  Sale   Bouilli. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the'  same  manner 
as  for  boiled  ham. 

Fried    Bacon. 

Petit    Sale    Frit. 

Cut  intC'  very  thin  slices,  put  in  the 
frying  pan  and  fry  to  a  nice  golden 
brown.     This   is   a   fine   breakfast   dish. 

Creole  Sausage. 

Sauoisses  a  la  Creole. 

It  has  been  said  by  visitors  to  New 
Orleans  that  the  Creoles  excell  ,all  other 
cooks  in  preparing  appetizing  sausages 
From  the  old  Creole  negresses,  who  go 
about  the  streets  in  the  early  morning 
crying  out  "Belles  Saucisses!"  "Belle 
Chaurice!"  tc  the  "Boudins"  and  "Sau- 
cissons"  so  temptingly  prepared  by  the 
Creole  butchers  in  the  French  Market, 
the  Creole  sausage  enters  largely  into 
domestic  cooking  and  forms  a  delightful 
flavor  for  many  dainty  dishes,  especial- 
ly of  the  vegetable  order,  while  in  the 
preparation  of  the  famous  "Jambalaya," 
the  "Chaurice"  is  one  of  the  mc-st  neces- 
sary   and    indispensable    ingredients. 


11 


Chaurice.  . 

4    Pounds    of    Lean,    Fresh    Pork. 

2  Pounds   of  Fat  Fresh  Pork. 

2  Large    Onions,    Minced    Very    Fine. 

1  Clove    of     Garlic,     Minced    Very     Fine, 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  Pepper  and 

Chili    Pepper    (very    hot). 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Red  Pepper. 

3   Teaspc'onfuls   of   Salt. 

2  Teaspoonfuls   of   Finely   Ground   Black 

Pepper. 
1   Sprig   of   Thyme,    Well   Minced. 

3  Sprigs    of    Parsley,    Finely    Minced. 

2    Bay    Leaves,    Chopped   or   Minced   Very 

Fine. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Allspice,    Very    Fine. 

Hash  the  pork  as  fine  as  possible — fat 
and  lean — and  mix  together.  Then  season 
highly  with  the  salt  and  black  pepper 
and  Cayenne,  Chili  and  red  pepper  (pi- 
mento) .  This  high  seasoning  distin- 
guishes the  Creole  sausage  frc-m  all  oth- 
ers. Chaurice  must  be  seasoned  very 
hot,  so  do  not  fear  to  have  too  much 
red  pepper.  Mince  the  onion  and  garlic 
as  fine  as  possible,  then  add  to  the  Chau- 
rice. Mince  the  herbs  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible, and  add,  and  then  mix  the  finely 
ground  spices  thoroughly  with  the  Chau- 
rice. Hash  all  together,  and  when  well 
mixed,  take  the  casings  (the  Creoles  al- 
ways use  the  entrails  of  the  sheep  for 
this  purpose)  that  have  been  well  cleaned 
by  the  butcher.  Scald  them  and  wash 
thoroughly  again.  Dry  them  and  fill 
with  the  mixture,  tying  them  in  the 
lengths  you   desire. 

Chaurice  is  fried  in  boiling  lard  for 
breakfast,  always  having  sufficient  to 
have  the  sausage  swim  in  it,  and  served, 
after  draining  of  all  grease,  on  a  hot 
dish  with  minced  parsley  thrown  over 
as  a  garnish.  It  is  used  most  extensive- 
ly in  making  "Jambalaya,"  and  a  few 
Chaurice  thrown  into  the  pc-t  of  boiling 
cabbage  or  beans  add  greatly  to  the 
flavor.  This  is  a  distinctive  Creole  sau- 
sage and  the  very  nicest  and  most 
highly  flavored  that  can  be  eaten. 

Chaurice    With   Puree    of   Potatoes. 

Chaurice  a  la  Puree  de  Pommes  de  Terre. 

2  Pounds  of  Chaurice. 
4    Irish    Potatoes.     1    Egg,    Well    Beaten. 

Prick  the  sausages  and  lay  them  in 
the  bottom  of  a  pan.  Make  a  soft  Puree 
of  Potatoes  (see  recipe)  and  pour  this 
over  the  sausage.  Then  spread  a  beaten 
egg  very  evenly  on  top,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  place  in  the  oven  and 
let  it  bake  a  half  hour.  This  is  a  nice 
breakfast  or  luncheon  dish. 

Chaurice  With  Creole  Sauce. 

Chaurice,   Sauce   a   la   Creole. 

2    Pounds    of    Chaurice     (about    6    to    a 

pound). 

1  Clove  of  Minced  Garlic. 

1-2    Can   of   Tomatoes.     1   Teaspoonful    of 

Salt. 

1   Teaspoonful    of    Black   Pepper, 

1    Large    Onion.     1-2    Spocn    of    Lard. 

Place  a  half  teaspoonful  of  lard  in  the 
frying  pan  or  stewpan,  and  when  it 
heats  add  the  chopped  onion.  Let  this 
'brown  slightly  and  then  add  the  minced 
garlic.  Then  add  the  half  can  of  toma- 
toes. As  this  browns  put  in  the  sausa^^e 
which  you  have  pricked  gently.  Cover 
and  let  them  simmer  for  about  five  min- 
utes, then  add  the  seasonings  to  taste. 
Add  about  a  half  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Cover  well  and  let  all  simmer  for  twenty 
minutes  longer.  This  is  very  nice  for 
breakfast. 


SauciBses. 

Saucisses,  unlike  Chaurice,  are  madd 
from   pork   and  beef  mixed.     Take 

2  Pounds    of    Lean    Beef. 
2  Pounds  of  Lean  Pork. 

1  Pound   of  Lean  Veal.     1   Pound  of  Fat 
Pork. 

2  Large  Onions  Minced  Very  Fine. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

1  Teaspoonful     of     Cayenne    Pepper. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Black  Pepper. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of   Salt. 

3  Bay  Leaves.  Minced  Very  Fine. 
1-2  Spoon  Each  of  Ground  Cloves,  Mace 

Allspice   and   Grated  Nutmeg. 

1  Teaspoonful    Each    of    Minced    Thyme 

and   Sweet   Marjoram. 

Chop  and  hash  the  meat  (fat  and  lean) 
very  fine,  mincing  it,  and  then  season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  Ca- 
yenne, mixing  well.  Add  the  minced 
onion  and  garlic,  mix  well,  and  then  add 
the  finely  minced  herbs  and  spices.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  fill  the  casings  which 
you  have  gotten  from  the  butcher  and 
washed  again  thoroughly.  Fill  them  with 
the  mixture,  in  lengths  of  about  two  feet 
or  one  foot  and  a  half,  stuffing  tightly. 
Tie  at  both  ends  and  let  them  stand  over- 
night in  a  deep  brine.  If  used  for  break- 
fast, take  out  as  much  as  desired,  wiDe 
dry  and  cut  into  slices  and  fry,  or  fry 
the  sausage,  the  whole  length,  in  boil- 
ing lard,  and  then  slice  nicely.  Garnish 
with  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 
Saucissons. 

Saucissons  are  sausage  made  from  the 
lean,  fine  flesh  of  the  pork  and  the  filet 
,  of   beef.     Take 

2  Pounds  df  Fresh  Pork,  Very  Lean. 

1   Pound    of   Fat. 

2  Pounds     of    Filet    of     Beef.    1    I^rge 

Onion. 
1  Teaspoonrul  of  Cayenne  Pepper. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Black  Pepper. 
3  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt. 
1  Bay  Leaf,  Chopped  Fine. 
1-4    Teaspoonful    Each    of    Ground    All- 
spice,   Cloves,    and    1-2    Nutmeg. 
1-2  Teaspoonful   Each  of  Fine  Herbs. 
1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

Mince  and  hash  the  meat  very  fine, 
mixing  the  beef  and  pork  and  fat.  Then 
season  highly  with  the  Cayenne,  salt  and 
pepper,  mixing  thoroughly.  Season  next 
with  the  minced  onion  and  garlic;  mix 
well,  and  then  with  the  minced  herbs 
and  spices,  mixing  all  thoroughly.  Fill 
the  casings,  which  are  never  very  large 
for  Saucissons.  Tie  them  in  sausages  of 
about  a  finger  in  length,  or  three  inches, 
and  they  are  ready  to  be  cooked.  Sau- 
cissons are  always  fried  in  boiling  lard 
and  served  whole,  placing  several  ou 
each  plate. 

Boudins. 

Boudins    are    blood    sausages    and    are 
much   affected   by   the   Creoles.     Take 
1  Pound   of  Hog  or  Beef  Blood   (1  pint). 

1-2  Pound  of  Hog  Fat.     2  Onions. 

Salt,     Pepper     and     Cayenne     to     Season 

Highly. 

1-2    Clove    of    Garlic. 

Mince  the  onions  fine  and  fry  them 
slightly  in  a  small  piece  of  the  hog  fat. 
Add  the  minced  garlic.  Hash  and  mince 
the  -remaining  fat  very  fine,  and  mix  it 
thoroughly  with  the  beef  blood.  Mix  the 
onions,  and  then  season  highly,  adding 
of  allspice,  mace,  clove  and  nutmeg  * 
half  teaspoonful  each,  finely  ground,  and 
a  half  teaspoonful  each  of  fine  herbs. 
When  all  mixed,  take  the  prepared  cas- 
ings, or  entrails,  and  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture,   being    careful    to    tie    the    sausage 


73 


casing  at  the  further  end  before  attempt- 
ing to  fill.  Then  tie  the  other  end,  mak- 
ing the  sausage  into  strings  of  about 
two  feet.  Wash  them  thoroughly  on  the 
outside  after  filling,  and  then  tie  again 
in  spaces  of  three  inches  or  less  in 
length,  being  careful  hot  to  make  too 
long.  Place  them  to  cook  in  a  pot  of 
tepid  water,  never  letting  them  boil,  as 
that  would  curdle  the  bloo'd.  Let  them 
remain  on  the  slow  fire  till  you  can  prick 
the  sausage  with  a  needle  and  no  blood 
will  exude.  Then  take  them  out,  let  them 
dry  and  cool. 

Boudins  are  always  fried  in  boiling 
lard.     Some  broil  them,   however. 

Boudin  Blanc. 

1  Pound  of  the  White  Meat  of  Fowl 
(left  over). 

1    Pound     of     Lean    Pork.    1    Pound    of 

Fat  Pork. 

1  Pint   of   Cream. 

1-2   Cup   of  Soft   of   Bread. 

The  Yolks   of  2  Eggs. 

1-4    Teaspoon    of   Ground    Spices. 

1-2    Clove    of    Garlic. 

1    Onion.     1    Teaspoonful    Cayenne. 

Salt   and   Pepper,   1  Teaspoonful   Each. 

Cut  the  meat  and  mince.  Season  high- 
ly with  the  salt  and  pepper  and  Cayenne. 
Add  the  minced  onion  and  garlic.  Mix 
well  with  half  a  cup  of  the  soft  of  bread, 
wet  and  squeezed  well.  Cook  all  tor 
about  fifteen  minutes  in  one  pint  of 
cream.  When  reduced  take  off  the  stove, 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  stir 
well  and  cool.  Fill  the  prepared  entrails 
and  tie  either  end,  and  place  them  in  a 
pot  containing  half  milk  and  half  water. 
Boil  them  for  about  twenty  minutes  and 
then  prick  gently,  place  in  buttered  pa- 
pers and  broil  gently.  The  left-over  of 
rabbit,  chicken,  turkey,  partridge  and 
other  birds  may  be  prepared  in  this 
manner,  as  also  the  left-over  of  crawfish 
or  crabs.     This  is  a  Creole  hors  d'oeuvre. 


Chitterlings. 

Andouilles. 

2  Pounds  of  Fat  Pork.     2  Pounds  of  Lean 

Pork. 

1  Pound  of  Inner  Lining  of  Stomach 

of    Hog. 

2    Cloves    of    Garlic.     3    Bay    Leaves.     2 

Large  Onions. 
1  Tablespoonful  Each  of  Salt  and  Pepper. 
1    Teaspoonful    of    Cayenne.     1    Tea- 
spoonful of  Chili  Pepper. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    Each    of    Mace,    Clovoa 

and  Allspice,  ground  fine. 

1  Tablespoonful  Each  of  Minced  Thyms, 

Sweet  Marjoram  and  Parsley. 

Select  the  largest  intestines  of  the  hog, 
wash  clean,  disgorge  and  thoroughly 
cleanse,  and  let  soak  for  twenty-four 
hours  in  fresh  water,  changing  the  water 
frequently.  Then  drain  and  dry  well. 
Cut  them  into  threadlike  pieces  of  about 
■once  inch  in  length,  and  hash  the  pork 
lean  and  fat,  together;  mix  thoroughly 
with  the  threads  of  intestines  or  inner 
stomach  of  the  hog,  and  season  highly 
with  the  salt,  pepper  and  Cayenne  and 
Chili  pepper.  Mince  the  onion  and  gar 
lie  and  herbs  as  fine  as  possible  anil 
add  to  the  meat.  Add  the  ground  spices 
and  mix  and  hash  all  together  very  fine. 
Take  six  or  eight  of  the  large  intestines 
that  have  been  thoroughly  soaked  and 
disgorged  and  fill  these  casings  with  the 
preparation,  after  scalding  and  drying 
the  casings  thoroughly.  Tie  into  the  de- 
sired lengths  and  use  as  desired.  This 
is  a  very  fat  sausage  and  entirely  too 
rich  for  delicate  stomachs.  When  tied 
into  large  sausages  about  the  size  of  the 
hand  they  are  called  "Andouilles."  When 
tied  into  small  sausages  they  are  styled 
"Andouillettes."  The  latter  arc  the 
more  delicate.  This  sausage  is  generally 
served  with  mashed  potatoes,  "a  puree  of 
peas  or  lentils.  The  chitterlings  are  first 
boiled  in  an  aromatic  water,  with  an 
herb 'bouquet,  or  in  milk;  they  are  then 
broiled,  or  baked  in  the  oven  for  eight 
or  ten  minutes. 


CHAPTER   XVI. 
POUIiTBT. 


De  la  Volaille. 


Poultry  of  all  kinds,  especially  chicken, 
furnishes  the  good  cook  with  an  infinite 
variety  of  delightful  dishes,  which 
are  dishes  that  may  grace  the  tabic 
of  the  people  from  the  simple  farmer  or 
the  Creole  in  his  humble  home  to  the 
rich  banker  who  can  afford  to  serve 
them  with   truffles   and  mushrooms. 

Roast  chicken,  roast  turkey,  roast 
goose,  roast  duck  are  welcome  dishes  on 
every  table.  The  entrees  that  are  made 
from  poultry  are  various,  such  as  Tur- 
key Daube,  Fricassees  of  Chicken,  with 
truffles,  mushrooms,  green  peas,  rice; 
Ragouts  of  Ducks,  Chapons  au  Gros  Sel, 
Poulardes  a  la  Sauce  Tartare,  Poulet 
Saute  a  la  Creole,  all  manner  of  cro- 
quettes and  salads,  and  goose  entre  a  la 
Chipolata.  Full-grown  poultry  always 
has  the  best  flavor. 

TURKEY. 

Dinde. 

The  turkey  hen  is  called  "dinde,"  the 
turkey  gobbler  ,"dindon."  The  prefer- 
ence in  eating  is  always  given  to  the 
"dinde,"  as  the  "dindons"  never  make 
quite  such  excellent  dishes. 

Turkey  may  be  roasted,  stewed  or 
made  into  gumbo.  Only  a  very  old  and 
lean  turkey  is  ever  stewed.    It  is  utilized 


in  this  way  as  a  home  dish,  never  on  tha- 
company  table.  The  boned  turkey  is  the 
triumph  of  the  New  Orleans  cuisine' 
when  serving  cold  turkey.  No  great  re-- 
ception  or  buffet  lunchon  is  complete 
without  it.  It  is  the  standing  dish  on 
New  Year's  Day,  when  the  Creole  ladies 
receive  tneir  gentlemen  friends,  and,  on 
occasions  of  marriages  in  the  family, 
every  father  will  insist  that  there  shall 
be  a  boned  turkey  for  the  wedding  feast. 
Boast  Turkey, 
Dinde    Rotie. 

1  Turkey.  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter, 
S'alt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Dressing  According  to  Taste. 
A  hen  turkey  is  always  best  for  roast- 
ing. Clean  and  prepare  the  turkey.  Make 
a  nice  stuffing  either  of  oysters,  egg. 
truffles  or  chestnuts  (see  Dressings  for 
Fowls).  Rub  the  turkey  well  with  salt 
and  pepper  inside  and  out,  and  then  rub 
the  inside  with  butter,  using  about  a 
half  tablespO'onful.  Stuff  first  the  space 
from  which  you  took  out  the  craw  and 
then  sew  up  the  slit  in  the  skin,  fasten- 
ing the  skin  by  a  piece  of  thread  tied 
around  the  neck  or  folding  it  over  and 
fastening  with  a  small  skewer.  Then 
stuff  the   body   of  the  turkey.    Push  th» 


74 


legs  under  the  skin  near  the  rump,  cros% 
them  and  fasten  them  with  a 
small  skewer  or  tie  with  a 
piece  of  twine.  Turn  the  wings  back, 
under  the  body  of  the  fowl.  Rub  the 
turkey  all  over  with  butter  or  lard,  and 
place  in  the  baking  pan  that  has  been 
greased  lightly.  Bake  the  turkey  in  a 
quick  oven,  allowing  about  fifteen  min- 
utes to  every  pound.  Baste  every  ten 
minutes  or  so  with  its  own  drippings. 
When  done,  remove  the  twine  and  the 
skewer  and  place  on  a  hot  dish,  gar- 
nished nicely  with  parsley,  and  serve. 
The  turkey  breast  should  always  be 
carved    in    delicate    slices. 

In  making  the  dressing  of  any  kind, 
always  take  up  the  liver  and  heart, 
which  you  have  seasoned  well  and 
minced  very  fine,  and  add  to  the  turkey 
dressing  and  mixing  thoroughly. 

Roast    Turkey    With    Truffles. 

Dinde    Truffee    Rotie. 

1  Fine  Young  Hen  Turkey. 

1  Pound  of  Lean  liTam,  Cut  into   Dice. 

2  Pounds  of  Truffles.     1-4  Nutmeg. 

1-4  of  a  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper. 

1  Bay  Leaf,  Minced  Fine. 
Clean  and  prepare  the  turkey  for  roast- 
ing as  directed  in  the  above  recipe.  Put 
a  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  put  in  the 
ham  cut  into  dice.  When  hot  add  two 
pounds  of  the  very  best  truffles  and  the 
grated  nutmeg,  the  pepper  and  a  mincei 
bay  leaf.  Stir  over  the  fire  tor  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Then  take  off  and  let 
cool.  When  it  is  cold  stuff  the  place  at 
the  neck  of  the  turkey  whence  you  tako 
the  craw,  and  sew  up  and  arrange  as  in- 
dicated in  the  directions  for  dressing  a 
turkey.  Stuff  the  body  of  the  turkey 
with  the  remainder  of  the  truffles  and 
sew  it  up  and  truss  it.  Set  it  in  the  even 
and  roast  according  to  the  above  recipe, 
serving  with  a  Sauve  aux  Truffles.  This 
is  a  very  exi>ensive  dish. 

Roast    Turkey    With    Mushrooms. 

Dinde    Rotie     Farcie     aux    Champignons. 

Proceed    in    the   above   manner,    substi- 
tuting mushrooms  instead. 
Turkey    With    Chestnuts    or    Oysters. 

Dinde  Rotie  Farcie  au  Marrons  ou  au> 
Haitres. 
Prepare  the  turkey  in  the  manner  indi- 
cated in  "Roast  Turkey";  stuff  accord- 
ing to  taste  with  either  a  Chestnut  or 
Oyster  Dressing  (see  recipes  under  chap- 
ter "Stuffings  and  Dressings  for  Poul- 
try, Game,"  etc.)  and  cook  as  in  recipe 
for  "Roast  Turkey."  Chestnut  and  Oys- 
ter Stuffings  are  favorite  Creole  dress  - 
ings  for  turkeys. 

Turkey  en  Daube. 

Dinde   en   Daube. 

1    Large   Turkey. 

1    Bunch    Each    of    Parsley,    Thyme    and 

Small   Celery    Leaves, 

Large  Slice  of  Salt  Pork. 

2  Onions  and  2  Carrots,  Sliced. 

10  Cloves.     1-2  Calf's  Foot. 

1    Clove    o-f    Garlic.     Bouquet    of    Sweet 

iHerbs. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Broth  or  Boiling  Water. 

2  Spoonfuls    of    Brandy. 
1  Pint  of  White  Wine. 

Clean  and  prepare  the  turkey  as  in  the 
above  directions,  then  stuff  either  with 
egg  dressing  or  oyster  stuffing.  Rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  at  thft 
bottom  of  a  deep  pot  slender  strips  of 
salt  pc-rk  and  half  of  a  calf's  foot,  well 
prepared.     Place  on  top  of  this  the  slices 


of  onions,  carrot,  fine  herbs,  minced 
nicely ;  garlic,  minced,  celery,  parsley, 
etc.,  and  lay  the  turkey  on  this  bed. 
Pour  over  it  one  pint  of  White  wine  and 
two  tableEjpoonfuls  of  Brandy,  and  ono 
pint  and  a  half  of  good  broth  or  boiling 
water.  Season  well  to  taste  and  cover 
tightly.  Set  on  the  stove  to  simmer  very 
slowly  for  at  least  five  hours  if  the  tur- 
key is  old.  Turn  it  once  very  carefully 
when  half  done  cooking.  After  five 
hours  lift  the  turkey  out  of  the  sauce, 
place  on  a  hot  dish.  Strain  the  sauce 
through  a  sieve,  and  if  the  turkey  is 
served  at  once,  serve  hot  in  a  separate 
dish.  If  not,  pour  it  over  the  turkey  and 
set  it  away  to  cool.  It  will  become  quite 
jellied  and  makes  an  excellent  luncheon 
dish. 

Boned   Turkey. 

Gelatine    Truffee    a    la    Gelee. 

1  Young  Turkey  Hen, 

2  Pounds  of  Young  Veal. 

1  Pound  cf  Fat  Fresh  Pork. 

1  Pound  of  Lean  Fresh  Pork. 

1-4   Pound    of   Cooper's    Gelatine. 

1-4  Can  of  Truffles. 

1  Tablespoonful  Each  of  Minced  Parsley 

and  Thyme. 

3  Minced  Bay  Leaves.    1   Lemon.     • 

3  Sprigs   E>ach  of  Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Glass  of  Brandy.  , 
1  Wineglass  of  Sherry.     2  Carrots. 

1  Turnip.     1  Stalk  of  Celery. 

2  Gallons  of  Water. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    Each    of   Grated    Cinna- 
mon and  Allspice. 

For  this  highly-prized  dish,  select  a 
young  hen  turkey.  It  must  be  hand- 
picked — that  is,  it  must  not  be  scalded, 
or  it  will  be  unfit  for  the  purpose  of 
boning.  Clean  it  thoroughly,  and,  when 
well  cleansed,  place  the  turkey  on  the 
table,  with  the  breast  down,  and  take  a 
sharp  penknife,  or  a  very  sharp-pointed 
knife,  and  cut  the  turkey  open  from  the 
neck  to  the  rump,  down  the  backbone. 
Then,  with  great  care,  run  the  knife  be- 
tween the  bones  and  the  flesh  to  the 
wings,  and,  on  reaching  the  joint,  un- 
joint  and  separate  the  bones  from  the^ 
body  without  breaking  the  flesh;  in  like* 
manner  remove  each  bone  as  you  reach 
the  joint,  except  the  small  bone  in  the 
tips  of  the  wings,  which  cannot  be  taken 
out  easily  and  which  are  generally  left 
on.  Carefully  slit  out  the  bones  of  the 
leg,  and  then  run  the  knife  between  the 
bones  and  flesh  till  you  come  to  the 
breast  bone.  Skillfully  separate  the  flesh 
from  the  bone  by  running  the  knife  be- 
tween, being  careful  to  pull  it  out  with- 
out breaking  the  flesh  of  the  turkey. 
After  removing  the  carcass,  spread  out 
the  turkey,  which  will  be  whole,  anrt 
wipe  inside  and  out  with  a  damp  towel, 
and  rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  in- 
side and  out.  Set  aside  in  a  cool  place 
and  prepare  the  following  dressing  or 
stuffing:  Take  two  pounds  of  young 
veal,  one  pound  of  young,  fat,  fresh  pork, 
and  one  pound  of  lean  fresh  pork.  Mince 
these  as  fine  as  possible,  and  then  sea- 
son as  follows :  One-half  of  a  nutmeg, 
finely  grated ;  tablespoonful  of  minced 
parsley;  one  of  minced  thyme,  three  of 
minced  bay  leaves,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one  of  black  pepper,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  grated  cinnamon,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful of  grated  allspice  and  the  juic3 
of  one  onion.  Mix  all  this  thoroughly 
in  the  stuffing.  Add  two  raw  eggs,  beat- 
en weU;  one  wineglass  full  of  Sherry  and 
one  of  Brandy ;  stir  well.  WTien  well 
mixed  add  one-quarter  of  a  box  of  truf- 
fles,   chopped,    but    not    too    fine.    Take 


75 


the  turkey,  lay  it  open  and  carefully  cut 
a  layer   of  meat   in   nice  slices   from  the 
inner  part.     Then  put  in  a  thick  layer  ot 
the  stuffing,  and  lay  over  this  a  layer  of 
the    meat,    using   the    whole    liver,    sliced 
in   strips,   also  as   alternate   layers;    then 
put  in  the  rest  of  the  stuffing  as  a  layer, 
and    bring    the    turkey     nicely    together 
and  sew  up  so  that  It  will  retain  its  orig- 
inal   shape.    'Have    ready    a    nice,    clean 
towel;   roll   the  turkey  in  the  towel,  and 
tie  it  securely  at  both  ends   and  around 
the  middle  in  a  solid  way.     Take  all  the 
bones    of    the    turkey,    the    skinned    feet, 
cleaned    head    and    all,    and    place    in    a 
large  pot.    Add  two  pounds  of  veal,   cut 
In    pieces,    and    two    calf's    feet.    Put    in 
two  carrots,  one  turnip,  several  sprigs  of 
thyme  and  parsley,  three  bay  leaves  and 
a  large  piece  of  celery.    Add  two  gallons 
of  water,  and  let  this  boil  very  hard  for 
an    hour.     Then    add    the    turkey,    which 
you  will  have  tied  in  the  towel,  and  let 
it  boil  for  two  hours.     After  two   hours, 
take  the  turkey  out  of  the  towel.    It  will 
have  shrunken  up  by  this  time  and   the 
towel   will  be  crinkled  greatly.    Roll  the 
towel  out  very  smoothly  again,  and  placa 
the  turkey  back  in  it  while  hot,  and  roll 
carefully  again.     Tie  it  at  both  ends  and 
across  the  middle,   and   then   place   on  a 
table  and  put  a  board  or  plank  on  top, 
and    over    this    a    fifteen-pound    weight. 
Leave  it  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  in  the 
ice    box,    as    it  must    cool    gradually   and 
naturally.    After    it    has    cooled    five    or 
six  hours  you  may  put  it  in  the  ice  box. 
In  the  meantime  you  will  have  left  on 
the   fire   the   pot    with    the   water,   bones, 
etc.,  in  which  the  turkey  has  been  boiled. 
Let  it  boil  for  two  hours  longer,  with  the 
bones  and  all.     Then  take  off  and  drain 
the   whole   through   a   strainer,    first   let- 
ting the  juice  fall  in  another  pan;   then 
strain    this    through    a    towel,    for    there 
must  be  no  pieces  of  cinnamon  or  herbo 
or  dregs   in  this  jelly.     Skim   off  all  the 
grease   that   floats   on  top,   being  careful 
not    to    leave    a    particle.     Put    it    on    the 
fire    again,    and    let    it    simmer.     Add    to 
the  boiling  mixture  one  lemon  and  skin, 
cut    in    four    or   five    pieces,    and    season 
with  salt   to   taste.     Put   in   a   bowl   one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  gelatine,  and  add 
one   pint   of   water   in   which   the   turkey 
has    been   boiled;    stir   well    and   let   the 
gelatine    melt.     When    well    melted,    pour 
into   the   boiling  mixture  and   beat   it  as 
you    would    a    cake,    mixing    thoroughly. 
Take  another  bowl,  and  break  three  raw 
eggs  in  it,  and  mash  the  shells  and  add; 
add   one   small    wineglass   of   water   and 
heat  well   again,   as   you   would   a   cake. 
Prepare  a  flannel  bag  of  size  sufficient 
to    hold    a    half    gallon.    Then    pour   the 
eggs    into   the   broth,   beating  very   thor- 
oughly and  rapidly  through  and  through 
for  ten  minutes,  while  it  remains  on  the 
fire.    The  moment  it  begins  to  boil  up  it 
will   curdle;    then   take   the   mixture   off 
and  strain  in  the  flannel  bag.    Let  this 
fall  into  a  few  tin  cups  or  cans,  for  they 
are  best,  and  set  on  ice.    The  next  morn- 
ing it  win  be  hard.    Then  unroll  the  tur- 
key and  put  it  in  a  dish;   cut  the  Jelly 
from  the  can  into  fancy  shapes  and  or- 
nament   the    turkey    with    it,    placing    a 
fancy  border  around  the  dish.    Tou  will 
have  a  dish  that  a  king  might  envy. 

Boned  chicken  may  be  prepared  in  ex- 
actly the  same  way. 

CHICKEN. 

Poulet. 

Chickens  may  be  broiled,  boiled,  fried, 

stewed,   baked   or  smothered.    For  broU- 

Ing,    always    purchase    spring    chickens. 

For  baking,  the  chicken  must  be  young 


and  tender.  For  invalids,  a  delicately 
boiled  spring  chicken,  with  Drawn  But- 
ter Sauce,  is  a  most  nutritious  and  easily 
digestible  dish. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

Poulet   Grille. 

A  Spring  CTiicken.  Melted  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Select  spring  chickens  for  broiling.  For 
a  family  of  six  several  will,  be  required. 
Clean  the  chickens  nicely,'  singe,  and 
then  split  down  the  middle  of  the  back, 
laying  the  chicken  open.  Break  the 
breastbone  with  a  mallet  and  flatten  out 
the  chicken.  Season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  brush  with  melted  butter. 
Have  the  broiler  ready  over  a  moderate 
fire,  and  place  the  chicken  between  (the 
double  broiler  is  best)  and  let  the  fowl 
broil  slowly  for  about  a  half  hour,  if  the 
chicken  is  very  tender,  otherwise  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  It  is  well  to  keep 
a  plate  over  it  all  the  time,  as  it  will  re- 
tain its  flavor  better.  Turn  the  chicken 
frequently,  so  that  it  may  be  broiled 
through  and  through.  It  should  be 
slightly  browned  on  the  skin  side.  When 
done,  place  in  a  heated  dish,  pour  over 
melted  butter  and  garnish  with  chopped 
parsley  and  serve  hot.  A  garnish  ot 
cresses  is  very  pretty.  The  dish  is  then 
called  "Poulet  Grille  aux  Cressons. 
Boiled  Chicken. 
Poulet  Bouilll. 

A  Spring  Chicken.  Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Select  a  nice  spring  chicken,  clean  and 
singe  and  split  down  the  middle  of  the 
back.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub- 
bing well  on  the  Inside  of  the  chicken. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  well  with 
water,  and  let  it  simmer  well  for  one 
hour  if  the  chicken  is  young.  If  the 
chicken  is  a  year  old  and  over,  let  it 
simmer  for  two  hours,  according  to  age. 
When  done  take  out  of  the  water  and 
place  in  a  heated  dish.  Pour  over  a 
Drawn  Butter  Sauce  (see  recipe)  and 
garnish  with  chopped  parsley. 

Creamed   Chicken. 

Poulet  a  la  Creme. 

1    Chicken.     Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 
A   Cream   Sauce. 

Select  a  fine  one-year-old  chicken,  and 
clean,  singe  and  boil  according  to  the 
above  recipe,  first  having  cut  in  joints, 
however.  In  boiling  always  simply  cOTTer 
the  chicken  with  water,  otherwise  you 
will  have  chicken  soup,  all  the  nutriment 
of  the  chicken  being  absorbed  by  the 
soup.  When  cooked  for  an  hour  or 
longer,  if  the  chicken  Is  now  very  ten- 
der, take  out  of  the  saucepan  and  place 
In  a  dish  and  pour  over  a  Cream  Sauca 
(see  recipe),  and  serve. 

Deviled    Chicken. 

Poulet  a  la  Diable. 

1    Chicken.    1    Tablespoonful    ot    Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1  Onion.    1  Bay  Leaf.    1  Sprig  of  Parsley. 

1-2  of  a  Clove   of  Garlic. 

1   Glass   of  White  Wine. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Prepared  Mustard. 

Salt   and   Pepper.    A   Dash   of   Cayenne. 

Boil  the  chicken  according  to  the  above 

recipe.    Mince    the    meat    fine.    Make    a 

sauce   by   putting   into    a    saucepan    one 

tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  as  it  melts 

add  one  onion,  minced  very  fine;  a  sprig 

of  minced  parsley,  one  minced  bay  leaf. 


76 


and  a  half  clove  of  minced  garlic.  L.?t 
it  simmer  gently  without  browning  and 
then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  well 
sifted.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  or  a  winegla.ss 
of  White  wine.  Stir  well  and  add  one 
pint  cf  the  water  in  which  the  chicke.i 
was  boiled.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  a  slight  dash  of  Cayenne. 
Then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  prepared 
mustard.  Let  it  simmer  three  mlnutea 
longer,  and  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour 
over  the  chicken  and  serve.  Any  re  - 
mains  of  cold  chicken  are  very  delicious 
served  with  this  "Sauce  a  la  Diable. 
(See  recipe   "Meat  Sauces.") 

Chicken   a  la   Tartare. 

Poulet    a-    la    Tartare. 

1   Spring  Chicken. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Butter. 

1   -tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Thyme. 

1  Bay  Leaf,  Minced  Fine. 

1   Chopped   Onion. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  chicken  according  to  the  above 
recipe,  adding  the  chopped  vegetables 
and  herbs.  Season  to  taste.  When  done, 
place  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  nicely  and 
serve  with  a  Sauce  a  la  Tartare.  (See 
recipe.) 

A  broiled  chicken  may  be  served  in 
the  same  manner,  but  either  broiled  or 
boiled,  the  chicken  must  be  cooked 
whole,   splitting  down   the   back. 

Stewed    Chicken,    Brown    Sauce. 

FTricassee    de    Volaille,    Sauce    Brune. 

1  Chicken.     1  Onion. 
1  Tablespoonful   of  j_<ai'd. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1  Sprig    Each    of    Thyme,    Parsley    and 

Bay   Leaf. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  cut  the  chicken  into  pieces 
at  the  joints.  S'eason  well  with  salt  and 
black  pepper.  Chop  the  onions  fine.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  of  lard  into  the  stewpot, 
and,  when  hot,  add  the  onion.  Let  it 
brown  slightly  and  then  add  the  flour 
which  has  been  well  sifted.  Let  this 
brown  and  add  the  chicken.  Let  all 
simmer  a  few  minutes  and  then  add  the 
■chopped  thyme,  parsley  and  bay  leaf. 
The  latter  must  be  minced  very  fine. 
;Stir  well  and  often.  When  every  piece  is 
■nicely  brow^ned,  add  one  pint  and  a 
half  of  boiling  water  or  soup  broth.  Stir 
until  it  begins  to  boil.  Season  again  to 
taste.  Cover  and  let  it  simmier  gently  for 
an  hour,  or  until  tender.  In  making  a 
fricassee,  the  liver,  heart  and  gizzard  of 
the  chicken  are  all  thrown  into  the  stew. 
Dish  up  the  chicken,  pour  over  the  hot 
sauce  and  serve  hot.  This  dish  is  vex'y 
nice  with  boiled  rice  or  potatoes.  It  is 
a  simple,  elegant  dish,  within  the  means 
of  everyone.     This  is  a  plain   fricassee. 

Stewed    Chicken,    White    Sauce. 

Fricassee  de  "Volaille,  Sauce  Blanche. 

1  Chicken.     1  Onion. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    Flour.     1    Pint    Fresh 

Milk. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  cut  the  chicken  into  joints 
and  clean  the  gizzard,  liver  and  open  the 
heart.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  put  all  into  a  stewpan  on  a  mod- 
erate fire.  Cover  well  with  boiling  wa- 
ter. Let  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half 
or  quarter  if  the  chicken  is  very  young; 
longer  if  the  chicken  is  old.  Add  tlie 
juice    of    two    large    onions.     Cook    until 


tender.  This  is  the  unvarying  rule  in 
stewing  or  cooking  chickens,  as  one  may 
be  tender  and  the  other  quite  tough, 
though  of  the  same  age.  When  th-> 
chicken  is  done,  blend  together  one  largo 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  of  flour  in  a 
frying  pan  without  browning;  add  a  pint 
of  milk  and  mix  well.  Add  this  to  the 
chicken,  mixing  and  stirring  constantly 
till  it  boils.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley.     Serve  hot. 

Chicken  Saute  a  la  Creole. 

Poulet  Saute  a.  la  Creole. 

2  Fine  S'pring  CTiickens. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  lablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

6  Large,  Fresh  Tomatoes,  or  1-2  Can. 

6    Fresh,    Sweet    Green    Peppers. 

2   Cloves   of   Garlic. 

3  Large  Onions. 

3    Sprigs    Each    of    Thyme    and    Parsley. 

2  Bay  Leaves. 
1  Pint  of  Consomme  or  Boiling  Water. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Take  two  spring  chickens  and  clean 
nicely  and  cut  into  pieces  at  the  joints. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and,  when  it  melts,  add  the  chicken. 
Let  this  brown  slowly  for  a  good  five 
minutes.  Have  ready  three  large  onions 
sliced.  Add  these  to  the  chickens  and  let 
them  brown.  Every  inch  must  be  nicely 
browned,  but  not  in  the  slightest  degree 
burned.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour; 
let  this  brown.  Then  add  a  half  dozen 
large,  fresh  tomatoes,  nicely  sliced,  or  a 
half  can  of  tomatoes,  and  let  these 
brown.  Cook  very  slowly,  allowing  the 
mixture  to  simply  simmer.  Add  chopped 
parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  and  two 
cloves  of  garlic  finely  minced.  Let  all 
brown  without  burning.  Cover  and  let 
it  smother  over  a  slow  but  steady  fire. 
The  tomato  juice  will  make  sufficient 
gravy  as  yet.  If  you  have  sweet  green 
peppers,  add  a  half  dozen,  taking  the 
seeds  out  before  adding  and  slicing  the 
peppers  very  fine.  Stir  well.  Let  all 
smother  steadily  for  twenty  minutes  at 
least,  keeping  well  co\'ered  and  stirring 
occasionally.  When  well  smothered,  add 
one  cup  of  Consomme,  if  you  have  it; 
if  not,  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Let  it 
cook  again  for  a  full  half  hour,  very. 
very  slowly  over  a  very  steady  fire,  and 
season  again  to  taste.  Cook  ten  minutfts 
more,  and  serve  hot. 

Chicken    With    MushTOoms. 

Poulet    Saute    aux    Champignons. 

1     Fine     Spring     Chicken.      1-2     Can     of 

Mushrooms. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Chopped  Onions.     1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1  Glass  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  Wine. 

1-2     Square     Inch     of     Ham     to     Season 

Thyme.  Parsley,  Bay  Leaf. 

Cut  into  joints  and  season  a  nicely 
cleaned  chicken.  Put  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
let  it  simmer  for  about  ten  minute?, 
browning  slightly,  A  mushroom  sauce  Is 
never  dark.  Add  two  nicely-chopped  on- 
ions, and  let  these  bro^m  slightly;  then, 
add  one-half  of  a  square  inch  of  ham. 
chopped  very  fine  indeed.  Add  thyma, 
parsley  and  bay  leaf,  following  carefuHy 
the  order  given  in  adding  the  ingredients. 
A  minute  later  add  the  garlic,  whioh 
has  been  minced  very  fine.  Let  all  brown 
together  for  ten  minutes.  Cut  the  mush- 
rooms into  halves,  put  them  with  thetr 
water    into    the    pot,    stirring    well.     Let 


77 


them  simmer  five  minutes.  Then  add  a 
wineglass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira,  stir  and 
cover  the  pot  closely,  so  that  it  can 
smother  well.  If  the  sauce  appears  too 
thick  add  about  a  half  cup  of  broth  or 
boilingr  water.  Season  to  taste,  and  let 
all  cook  very  slowly  for  an  hour  longer 
over  a  steady  fire.  The  secret  in  smoth- 
ering chicken  is  to  let  it  cook  slowly,  so 
that  the  seasoning  may  permeate  the 
flesh  and  the  heat  by  slow  degrees  ren- 
der it  tender  and  most  palatable. 

Chicken  With  Truffles. 

Poulet  Saute  aux  Truffes. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  in  the  above  recipe,  only  add  a  halt 
can  of  truffles  instead  of  the  mushrooms. 
This   is   an   expensive    dish. 

Chicken  and  Rice. 

Po'Ulet    au    Riz. 

1   Fine    Chicken. 

1-2  Square  Inch   of  Ham. 

2    Small    Turnips.     2    Carrots.     2    Onions. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1  Small  Piece  of  Lemon  Peel. 

1  Small  piece  of  Red  Pepper  Pod. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

2  Whole  Cloves,  Without  the  Seed. 

3  Sliced  Tomatoes. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

2    Quarts     of     Water.    2    Tablespoonfulg 

Butter. 

S'alt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  cut  and  season  the  chicken 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  but- 
ter into  the  saucepan  and  let  It  melt,  and 
add  the  seasoned  chicken.  Let  it  brown 
well,  and  add  the  vegetables,  all  chopped 
very  fine.  Then  add  the  minced  herbs 
and  garlic,  and  after  this  the  spices.  Let 
all  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes,  and 
pour  over  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  and  season  again  to  taste  and  s.=t 
back  on  the  stove  and  let  it  simm.-jr 
steadily  and  slowly  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  When  two-thirds  cooked, 
add  one  cup  of  well-washed  rice,  stir 
well,  seasoning  again  to  taste.  Do  not 
let  the  rice  become  mushy.  Let  the 
grains  stand  out.  Let  all  cook  for  twenty 
minutes  longer  and  serve,  taking  out 
first  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  ranging 
the  rice  around  as  a  garnish.  Serve 
with  the  sauce  poured  over. 

Chicken  Stewed  With  Green  Peas. 
Poulet  Saute  aux  Petit  Pois. 

1   Nice    Chicken    of   a    Year    Old. 

1  Pint  of  Green  Peas. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Chopped  Onions.     1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1  Pint  of  Fresh  Milk.     1-2  Square  Inch  of 

Ham. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay  Leaf. 

Cut  and  season  the  chicken  nicely.  Put 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  tv/o  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  and  let  it  simmer  nicely 
for  about  ten  minutes  without  brown- 
ing. Add  two  nicely-chopped  onions  and 
let  these  brown  slightly.  Then  add  a 
square  inch  of  ham,  chopped  very  fine, 
and  minced  thyme,  parsley  and  bay  leaf, 
one  sprig  each.  Add  the  garlic,  nicely 
minced.  Let  all  brown  together,  slightly 
simmering  all  the  time.  Then  pour  in 
one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  set  back 
on  the  stove  and  let  simmer  gently  for 
an  hour  and  a  quarter.  About  twenty 
minutes  before  serving  add  one  pint  of 
milk,  and  let  all  cook  for  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  the  green  peas  heaped  around 
the  chicken,  which  should  be  placed  in 
the  center  of  the  dish.  Pour  the  gravy 
over,  and  bring  to  the  table. 


Chicken   With  Dumplini^s. 

Poulet  aux  Echaudes. 

1   Fine  Year-Old   Chicken. 
1  Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

1  Tablespoonful   of   Flour. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 
Leaf. 

2  Dozen  Small  Dumplings. 

Prepare  a  Plain  Fricassee,  Brown  or 
White  Gravy,  and,  about  twelve  minutes 
before  serving,  add  the  dumplings,  drop- 
ping them  in  lightly,  and  bring  the  chick- 
en to  a  brisk  boil.  (See  recipe  for  Dump- 
lings.) Place  the  chicken  and  dumplings 
in  the  dish,  pour  the  hot  gravy  over  and 
serve. 

Chicken  a  la  Jardiniere. 

Poulet    a    la    Jardiniere. 

1    Fine    Chicken. 
6  Small  Onions.  1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1  S'prig  Bach  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 

Leaf. 

1-2  Head   of   Cauliflower. 

1-2  Cup  of  Green  Peas. 

3  Small  Artichokes. 
1-4    Can    of    Mushrooms. 

Cut  and  stew  the  chicken  as  in  Fricas- 
see Brown  Gravy.  After  adding  the  wa- 
ter add  a  half  dozen  small  onions,  and 
let  it  simmer  for  an  hour,  or  until  ten- 
der. Then  add  one-quarter  can  of  mush- 
rooms, a  small  half  Iread  of  cauliflower 
(nicely  chopped),  a  half  cup  of  green 
peas  and  several  cooked  artichokes.  Set 
upon  a  quick  fire,  mix  well  and  add  a 
pint  of  good  broth  or  water;  let  all  cook 
for  twenty  minutes  longer  and  serve  hot. 

Smothered    Chicken. 

Poulet    Braise. 

1  Chicken.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

This  is  a  most  delicate  and  palatable 
way  of  cooking  chickens.  After  cleanin? 
the  young  chicken,  split  down  the  back 
and  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  of  lard  into  the  frying 
"an,  and,  when  it  is  hot,  add  the  chicken. 
Let  it  simmer  gently  for  about  fifteen 
minutes,  then  add  a  halt  cup  of  water, 
and  set  back  on  the  stove,  and  let  It 
simmer  gently  and  steadily  for  about  an 
hour.  Serve  with  a  garnish  of  chopp'.-d 
parsley.  Some  smother  the  chicken  in 
butter,  but  this  is  according  to  taste. 
Butter  always  makes  a  greasier  dish 
than  lard  when  frying  or  smothering 
meats. 

Breasts    of    Chicken    Louisiana    Style. 

Supreme    de    Volaille    a    la    Louisianaise. 

The  Filets  of  2  Chickens.  ■ 
4    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
1     Small    Onion,    sliced.     1    Minced    Bay 
Leaf. 
1  Blade  of  Mace.     4  Cloves. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
The  filets  are  the  white  meat  on  either 
side  of  the  breast  bone.     In   one  chickpn 
you    will    have    four    filets.     Form    this 
white  meat  neatly  into   filets  by  patting 
and    flattening.     Then    season    well    with 
salt  and  pepper.     Put  the  butter  into  the 
stewpan    and    add    the    sliced    onion,    the 
bay  leaf   (whole)  and  the  spices.     Let  all 
simmer   without   browning.     Then   lay   In 
the  filets  of  chicken,  being  careful  not  'o 
let  them  brown.     Let  them  simmer  gent- 
ly and  add  one  cup  of  the  water  m  which 
you   have   broiled   the   dark   meat   of   the 
chicken.     Let    all    simmer    gently    for    an 
hour.     When     done,     arrange     the     fllels 
tastefully  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  parsley 


78 


sprigs  and  Croutons  of  bread  nicely 
shaped  in  diamond  form  and  fried  in 
butter.  The  dark  meat  may  be  utilized 
fn  making  salads,  croquettes-  or  boudins. 

Breasts    of    Chicken,    Queen    Style, 

Supreme    de    Volaille    a,    la    Reine. 

6   or   8  Breasts   of   Chicken.     2   Trouffles. 
4   Mushrooms. 

2   Ounces   of  Chicken   Forcemeat. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Gill  of  Madeira  Wine. 

2    Tablespoo'Ufuls    of    Mushroom    Liquor. 

1  Pint  of  Hot  Sauce  a  la  Reine. 
Under  the  breast  of  each  chicken  i.s 
found  a  small  filet.  Carefully  remove 
this,  and  set  aside  on  a  dish  for  further 
use.  Take  a  small,  sharp  knife  and 
make  an  incision  three  inches  long  and 
one  inch  deep  in  the  inner  side  of  each 
breast;  season  lightly  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  then  stuff  each  breast  in  the 
incision  made,  using  two  ounces  of  chick- 
en forcemeat  (see  recipe),  mixed  with 
two  truffles  and  four  mushrooms,  all 
finely  minced.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  stewpan;  lay  the  breasts  in 
gently.  Take  each  small  filet,  press 
gently  into  shape  and  flatten;  make  sev- 
eral small  incisions  and  place  within  a 
fine  slice  of  truffle,  about  an  inch  in 
diameter.  Carefully  lay  on  top  of  each 
breast  lengthwise.  Brush  lightly  with 
melted  butter.  Pour  into  the  pan,  but 
not  over  the  breasts,  the  wine  and  mush- 
room liquor.  Cover  tightly  and  set  in 
the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Send  to 
the   table   hot. 

Smothered  Chicken. 

Poularde    Etouffe. 

1  Young  Hen.     1-4  Pound  of  Nice  Bacon. 
1    Lemon.     2    Carrots.     2    Onions. 

1    Herb    Bouquet.     1 1-2    Cups    Broth. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

This  is  a  nice  way  to  utilize  young 
hens.  Clean  and  singe  the  chicken  nice- 
ly, and,  after  taking  out  the  entrails, 
truss  it  as  in  roasting  turkey.  Place  in 
the  frying  pan  small  pieces  of  fat  bacon, 
cut  in  very  slender  strips  of  about  the 
size  of  your  finger.  Place  over  thi.s 
slices  of  lemon,  very  fine,  and  cover 
again  with  slender  bits  of  bacon.  Moisten 
this  with  a  half  cup  of  water  and  lay 
over  two  carrots,  cut  In  thin  slices,  and 
two  onions,  cut  likewise,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  thyme,  parsley  and  one  bay 
leaf,  minced  fme.  Place  on  top  of  this 
the  chicken  and  cover  closely.  Liet  it 
cook  on  a  good  fire  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  or  a  half  hoUr,  if  the  chicken 
l9  exceedingly  tender.  When  done,  tako 
out  the  chicken,  add  one-half  cup  of 
broth  to  the  liquor  in  which  It  has  been 
boiling.  Stir  well  and  season  highly,  and 
pour  over  the  chicken  and  serve.  A 
sauce  of  tomatoes  may  also  be  made  and 
served  with  this  dish. 

Fried  Otilcken. 

.    Poulet    Frit. 

1   Spring  Chicken. 

3  Tablespoonfuls    of    Lard.    2    Eggs. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  cut  the  chicken  Into  Joints. 
Dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make 
a  nice  batter  with  the  eggs  and  flour 
and  roll  the  chicken  In  this,  patting 
lightly.  Place  in  the  hot  lard  In  the 
frying  pan  and  let  It  cook  for  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  watching  care- 
fully that  It  may  not  burn.  Serve  on  a 
platter  garnished  with  chopped  parsley 
and  cresses. 


Fried    Chicken,    Cream    Sauce. 

Poulet    Frit   a.   la   Creme. 

1  Spring  Ohlokeu. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lard. 

Salt     and     Pepper.     1     Tablespoonful     of 

Flour. 

1-2  Pint   of  Milk. 

Clean  and  cut  the  chicken  at  the  Joints. 
Dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  flour.  Put  the  lard  into  the  frying 
pan,  and,  when  hot,  add  the  chicken,  let- 
ting It  fry  slowly  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  until  done.  Be  careful  not  to 
burn.  When  done,  arrange  the  pieces 
on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  off  all  the  fat  that 
remains  in  the  frying  pan  but  one  table- 
spoonful. Add  to  this  a  tablespoonful 
of  sifted  flour.     Mix  thoroughly  and  then 

gour  in  a  half  pint  of  rich  cream  or  milk. 
eason  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  It 
come  to  a  slight  boil  and  pour  over  the 
chicken  and  serve. 

Boast     Chicken. 

Poulet  Roti. 

1  Chicken.     1-2  Tablespoonful  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  roasting  a  turkey.  (See  recipe.)  The 
chicken  must  bake  in  a  quick  oven, 
allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound. 
A  roasted  chicken  may  be  stuffed  or  not, 
according  to  taste,  with  a  stuffing  of 
oysters,  eggs  or  truffles  (see  Dressings 
for  Fowls)  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
turkey. 

Chicken  a  la  Beine. 

Poulet  a  la  Reine. 

2  Chickens  of  1  Tear  Old. 

1-4  Pound  of  Nice  Bacon.     1  Carrot,  cut 

fine. 

1   Onion,  cut  fine. 

1  Quart  of  Broth  or  Water. 

1   Herb   Bouquet. 

Clean  the  chickens  and  truss  as  for 
roasting.  Then  dredge  Inside  and  ooit 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  bacon  Into 
very  thin  strips,  about  the  width  of  a 
match,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  the  stew- 
pan.  Lay  over  this  the  carrots  and  on- 
ions, sliced  fine,  and  put  another  layer 
of  salt  meat  in  delicate  strips.  Put  the 
chickens  in  this  and  cover  well  and  set 
inside  of  a  hot  oven.  After  twenty  min- 
utes add  the  boiling  broth  or  water  and 
the  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Let  the  chick- 
ens cook  for  two  hours,  turning  them 
at  the  end  of  one  hour  and  basting  oc- 
casionally. Put  the  chicken  In  a  hot 
dish,  boll  the  gravy  down  to  a  half  quart, 
skim  off  all  the  grease  and  pass  through 
a  sieve  and  pour  over  the  chickens  and 
serve. 

Casserole  of  CMoken. 

Casserole  de  Volaille. 

1-2  Cup  of  Cream. 

3  Quarts  of  Cold  Water. 
1  Tablespoonful   of  Salt. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Cups  of  Louisiana  Rice. 
Salt  and   Pepper  to  Taste. 

A    White    Fricassee    of   Chicken. 

Make  a  Fricassee  of  Chicken,  Whits 
Gravy.  Boil  the  rice  according  to  recipe 
(see  Boiled  Rice)  and  then  mash  the  rlo9 
thoroughly  and  add  the  butter  and  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  a  ralsel 
pie  pan  or  casserole  and  press  the  rloe 
into  this,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When 
cool  cut  out  the  center  ot  the  rice  an* 
fill  the  wall  and  bottom  with  the  white 
fricassee  of  chicken.    Cover  the  top  wItt 


79 


the  rice  which  you  have  cut  out,  laying 
on  lightly,  so  as  not  to  press  the  chiclcen 
sauce  through.  Beat  an  egg  well  and 
brush  over  this.  Set  in  the  oven  and 
bake.     Serve  with  Mushroom  Sauce. 

Chicken  Souffle. 

Souffle  de  Poulet. 

1  Pint  of  Chopped  Left-Over  Chicken. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped   Parsley. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

3    Fresh    Eggs. 

1-2   Cup    of  Stale   Bread. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add 
the  flour,  and  mix  nicely  without  brown- 
ing. Then  add  the  milk  and  stir  con- 
stantly till  it  boils.  Add  the  bread 
crumbs  and  cook  for  one  minute  longer. 
Then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
chicken,  which  has  been  hashed  very  fine 
and  seasoned  well  with  salt,  pepper  and 
Cayenne,  judging  according  to  the  taste. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add,  mix- 
ing thoroughly.  Then  beat  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  stir  very  carefully  into 
the  mixture.  Grease  the  bottom  of  a 
baking  dish  with  butter  and  put  the 
mixture  in  this,  baking  for  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  immediate- 
ly while  hot,  or  it  will  fall. 

Chicken    Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent   de   Volaille. 

1  Chicken.    1  Onion. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1  S'prig  Each    of   Thyme,   Bay   Lieaf   and 

Parsley. 

Pie  Paste. 

Clean  and  cut  the  chicken  into  small 
pieces  of  about  two  inches  in  length  and 
make  a  plain  fricassee.  (See  Fricassee 
Brown  Gravy.)  Prepare  a  Vol-au-Vent 
Paste  (see  recipe),  and  fill  a  tin  pan  of 
about  two  quarts  with  the  Paste.  Pour 
in  the  chicken  gravy,  and  let  it  bake  in 
the  oven  till  the  top  crust  is  nicely 
browned.  Always  bake  the  under  crust 
first.  This  is  a  delightful  entree  at  any 
feast.  Vol-au-Vent  of  pigeons,  young 
veal  and  frog  legs  are  made  in  the  same 
manner.  A  Vol-au-Vent  of  Frogs  is  called 
"G-renouilles  a  la  Poulet."  The  Vol-au- 
Vent   Paste   is   difficult   to  make. 

Chicken    Fatties,    Queen    Style. 

Petites   Bouchees,  a  la  Reine. 

1    Small   Young   Chicken. 
12   Rounds    of   Puff   Paste. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1    Tablespoonful    of   Flour. 
1-2    Pint    of    Milk.      1-2    Can    of    Mush- 
rooms. 
A  Pinch  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Roast  or  broil  the  chicken  nicely.  Make 
a  Puff  Paste.  (See  recipe.)  Cut  a  dozen 
rounds  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  mark  a 
smaller  round  or  top  for  a  cover.  Brush 
with  a  beaten  egg,  and  mark  on  the  sur- 
face of  each  with  the  cutter,  dipping  It 
each  time  in  hot  water,  so  that  the 
marked  outline  may  remain  perfect.  Set 
in  a  brisk  oven  and  let  them  brown 
nicely  for  twelve  minutes.  Then  remove 
the  covers  gently  with  a  knife  and  fill 
with  the  following  garnishing:  Remove 
all  the  chicken  meat  from  the  bone  and 
chop  very  fine.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  sautoire  or  stewpan  and  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour.  Stir  till 
smooth.  Pour  in  gradually  a  half  pint 
of  hot  milk  till  the  same  reaches  the 
consistency  of  a  thick  cream.     Season  to 


taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  add  one-half  can  •of  mush- 
rooms finely  chopped  and  the  chicken. 
Stir  constantly  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil 
Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  fill  the 
patties.  Set  the  covers  on,  serve  on  a 
hot  dish.  Pork  tongues,  l)lanolied  sweet- 
breads and  all  other  "Bouchees"  are  pre- 
pared in  the  same  manner. 

Boned     Chicken, 

Galatine    Truffee    a,    la    Gelee. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  for  boned  turkey  and  serve.  ^See  re- 
cipe Boned  Turkey.) 

Chicken    Croquettes. 

Croquettes  de  Volaille. 

1  Young  Chicken. 

2   Small   Onions.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

4  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1  Large  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Cup  of  Milk. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

Cayenne  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  chicken  as  directed  in  the  re- 
cipe for  boiling.  Then,  when  cold,  re- 
move all  the  tough  fibers  and  nerves. 
Hash  the  chicken  well  and  season  with 
the  minced  vegetables  and  sweet  herbs 
mixing  all  thoroughly.  Then  take  a  cup 
of  soft  of  the  bread,  wet  it  and  squeeze 
and  soak  in  milk,  in  which  you  have 
beaten  two  eggs.  Mix  all  this  with  the 
chicken  very  thoroughly  and  season  to 
taste.  "When  well  mixed  form  the  meat 
into  cylindrical  shapes  and  brush  with 
a  little  butter.  Then  roll  in  a  beaten 
egg  and  roll  again  in  powdered  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  lard  and  serve 
hot  on  a  plate  garnished  with  fried  pars- 
ley. 

Remains  of  cold  turkey  or  cold  chicken 
may  be  utilized  in  this  way. 

Chicken  Balls,   Queen   Style. 

Boudins   u    la   Reine. 

1  Young  Chicken. 

2  Small  Onions.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

4   Sprigs  of  Parsley.    1  Cup   of  Milk. 

2  Eggs.     1-4   Grated   Nutmeg. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

Boudins  a  la  Reine  are  made  in  exactly 
the  same  manner  as  croquettes,  only  the 
mixture  is  placed  in  a  frying  pan  and 
fried  in  butter,  using  about  a  tablespoon- 
ful. To  this  is  added  about  one  pint  of 
milk.  Beat  the  chicken  thoroughly  in 
this,  add  a  grated  nutmeg,  then  take  off 
the  fire  and  add  two  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Fill  custard  cups  with  the  mixture,  place 
in  the  oven  setting  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  covering  with  paper.  Let 
them  bake  thus  as  ^ou  would  a  cup  cus- 
tard for  twenty  minutes,  and  take  off 
the  paper  and  let  them  brown.  Serve 
hot.  All  cold  roasts,  whether  of  turkey 
or  chicken,  may  be  thus  utilized. 
Bonlettes. 
Boulettes  are  prepared  in  exactly  the 
same  manner  as  boudins,  only  the  meat 
is  formed  into  boulettes,  or  small  balls, 
and  patted  on  either  side  to  flatten 
slightly. 

Chicken   Salad,   Mayonnaise   Sauce. 

Mayonnaise    de    Volaille. 

Remains    of    Cold    Chicken,    or    Freshly 

Boiled. 

3   Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

Celery.    1   Onion. 

Celery,  Asparagus  Tips  and  Boiled  Beets 

to  Garnish. 

A  Sauce  a  la  Mayonnaise. 


80 


The  remains  of  cold  chicken  are  used 
for  this.  '  But  it  is  always  preferable  for 
dinners  to  boil  the  chickens  nicely  and 
use  only  the  white  meat,  if  you  wish  the 
dish  to  be  recherche.  The  dark  meat, 
however,  is  equally  good,  thougrh  it  may 
not  look  so  pretty.  After  cooking  the 
chickens  very  tender,  pick  out  all  the 
white  meat  into  small  pieces  of  about  an 
inch  or  less,  and  add  cho-pped  celery  of 
the  whitest  fiber  and  very  tender.  Mix 
thoroughly,  using  good  judgment  in  ha^^- 
ing  partS'  of  the  celery  and  chicken  in 
the  proportion  of  one-third  celery.  Chop 
an  onion  very  fine,  and  add.  teeason  all 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Place  on 
a  dish  and  spread  over  a  nice  Mayon 
naise  dressing  (see  Sauce  a  la  Mayon- 
naise), and  garnish  prettily  with  celery 
tips,  asparagus  tips,  olives  and  very 
delicately  sliced  red  beets,  and  sliced 
lemon. 

Chicken    Xjivers. 

Foies  de  Volaille. 

Chicken  livers  may  be  prepared  as 
"Foie  de  Volaille  Saute,"  or  "Foie  de 
Volaille  en  Brochette."  They  are  pre- 
pared in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  in 
the  recipes  for  cooking  beef's  liver.  (See 
recipe.) 

CAPONS. 

Chapons. 

Capons  of  either  turkey  or  chicken  are 
cooked  in  exactly  the  same  manner,  gen- 
erally being  best  when  boiled  or  roasted. 

Chapon  Farcie  a  la  Crenie  corresponds 
to  Creamed  Chicken,  and  Chapon  a  la 
Poele  corresponds  to  Poularde  a  la  Poele, 
and  are  particularly  recommended.  (See 
recipes.) 

GUINEA    FOWL,. 

Pintade. 

The  Guinea  Fowl  is  only  eaten  when 
very  young,  and  then  it  makes  a  nice, 
palatable  dish.  All  the  preparations  giv- 
en for  cooking  turkey  may  be  followed 
in  preparing  this  fowl,  and  it  is  unneces- 
sary to  repeat  them  here.  (See  recipes  for 
Cooking   Turkey.) 

GOOSE. 

Oie. 

The  goose  is  a  much  tougher  fowl  than 
either  the  chicken  or  turkey,  and  re- 
quires longer  to  cook.  It  is  also  dryjr 
meat,  and  in  roasting  requires  to  have 
a  little  water  poured  over  it.  Never  roast 
a  goose  that  is  more  than  eight  months 
or  a  year  old,  and  never  eat  a  goose  over 
three  years  old.  The  happy  age  for  gen- 
eral cooking  is  when  the  goose  has 
reached  one  year  or  one  year  and  a  half. 
Young  wild  geese  of  not  more  than  one 
year,  and  yard  ducklings  of  similar  age, 
are  broiled  in  the  same  manner  as  spring 
chicken.  The  fatter  the  goose  the  more 
tender  and  juicy  the  meat. 

Roast    Goose. 

Oie   Rotie. 

1  Young  Goose.    4  Onions. 
1  Cup  of  Mashed  Potatoes. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Thyme. 
2    Sprigs    of    Parsley. 
4   Apples.     1 1-2   Tablespoo'ufuls    of   Lard. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A  roast  goose,  properly  prepared,  Is 
a  very  savory  dish,  whether  the  fowl  is 
wild  or  tame.  But,  as  mentioned  above, 
the  goose  must  be  tender.  If  the  breast- 
bone yields  easily  to  pressure  and  the 
pinions  are  very  tender,  the  legs  smooth 


and  yellow  and  free  from  feathers,  the 
goose  is  young.  In  picking  a  goosfe  never 
scald  it,  as  this  utterly  ruins  the  flesh. 
The  goose  must  be  hand  picked.  Then 
singe  and  clean,  and  season  well  and 
roast  as  you  would  a  turkey,  allowing, 
however,  twenty-five  minutes  to  every 
pound.  It  may  be  served  with  a  (Jiblet 
Sauce  as  roast  chicken.  Apple  Sauce  or 
Currant  Jelly  is  always  served  with  Roast 
Goose,  preferably  the  Apple  Sauce.  Any 
stuffing  used  in  baking  a  turkey  may  be 
used  for  roast  goose,  such  as  oyster  or 
egg,  etc.  But  the  following  is  an  excel- 
lent special  dressing  and  seems  to  bring 
out  more  than  any  other  the  flavor  of  the 
goose: 

Take  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  four 
apples,  peeled  nicely  and  cored,  and  four 
onions,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sage,  pow- 
dered well;  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
thyme,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Place  the  apples  and  onions  and  herbs 
in  a  saucepan  and  add  water  sufficiently 
to  cover  nicely.  Let  all  cook  together 
till  soft.  Then  mash  well  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Add  the  cup  of  mashed  pota- 
toes and  mix  well,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Stuff  the  body  and  craw, 
sew  up  and  truss  the  goose.  Put  into 
the  roasting  pan,  rubbing  a  half  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  over  it  and  souring  over 
a  half  cup  of  water,  boiling.  Baste  the 
goose  very  frequently,  say  every  ten 
minutes,  so  that  it  %^-ill  be  fine  and  juicy. 
It  generallv  requires  at  least  an  hour 
and  a  half  to  roast  well,  but  the  rule 
of  twenty-five  minutes  to  the  pound  Is  a 
good  one  to  follow.  A  "Green  Goose ' 
is  always  best  for  roasting,  "but  this  muijt 
be  covered  from  the  beginning  with  a 
piece  of  buttered  paper,  else  it  will  brown 
before  cooking.     Serve  with  Apple  Sauce. 

Goose  Daube. 

Oie  en  Daube. 

Prepare    in    exactly    the    same    manner 

as    Turkey   Daube   (see   recipe).     A  goose 

that  is  not  so  young  may  be  cooked  a  la 

Daube. 

Goose  u  la  Chlpolata. 

Oie  a  la  Chlpolata. 
1  Fine  Young  Goose. 
1-2  Pound  of  Chaurice.    1  Can  of  Mush- 
rooms. 
1   Dozen   Large   Chestnuts,  nicely 
roasted  and  skinned. 
1    Sprig   Each   of   Thyme   and  Bay   Leaf. 
3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 
The   Juice    of   2   Lemons. 
4  or  5  Bits  of  Lemon  Peel. 
2    Onions.     1    Pint    of    Boiling   Water. 
1-2  Tablespoonful  of  Lard  or  Butter. 

1  Spoon  of  Flour, 
Place  the  lard  or  butter  in  the  stewpot 
and  when  it  melts  add  the  onions,  which 
have  been  nicely  sliced.  As  they  brown 
add  the  goose,  which  has  been  cleaned, 
singed  and  nicely  cut  at  the  joints  into 
pieces,  and  well  rubbed  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  the  sausage,  which  must  be 
cut  in  halves.  Let  simmer  for  about  ten 
minutes,  until  every  portion  is  slightly 
browned,  and  then  add  the  minced  herbs 
and  garlic.  After  three  minutes  add  the 
spoonful  of  flour,  mixing  well,  and  let 
it  all  simmer  for  ten  minutes  longer, 
then  pour  in  the  can  of  mushrooms  and 
their  water,  and  add  immediately  the 
chestnuts.  Let  the  goose  cook  till  ten- 
der, and  serve  hot. 

rat  Hvers. 
Des   Foies    Gras. 
The    livers    of    geese    that    have    been 
caged  tightly,  so  that  they  can  make  no 


81 


movement,  and  which  have  been  kept  in 
a  very  high  temperature,  much  higher 
than  that  of  the  atmosphere — geese 
which  have  been  deprived  of  every  ray 
of  light— are  used  for  the  famous  dish, 
"Foies  Gras."  The  French  first  discov- 
ered tliis  manner  of  caging  geese,  do- 
ing it  at  their  ancient  stronghold  of 
Strasbourg.  At  Toulouse  the  livers  of 
tame  duclts  were  treated  in  the  same 
manner.  The  Creoles,  descendants  of  the 
French,  brought  over  the  custom  to  the 
old  French  colony  of  Louisiana,  whence 
it  has  spread  to  all  portions  of  the  United 
States.  While  the  livers  of  the  geese  or 
duclcs  become  soft  and  fat  under  this 
treatment,  the  rest  of  the  body  suffers, 
and  becomes  so  very  fat  that  the  goose 
flesh  is  good  for  nothing,  or,  as  the  Cre- 
oles say,  "Plus  bonne  a  rien."  Foies  Gras 
are  now  sold  in  cans  in  every  large  groc- 
ery establishment  in  the  United  States. 
They  come  already  coolced,  in  such  shape 
that  they  can  easily  be  made  into  any 
of  the  delectable  dishes  that  so  delight 
the  old  Creole  or  French  "bon  vivants." 
The  most  famous  of  tliese   dishes   is   the 

Ptitties  of  FoieB   Gray. 

Pates    de    Foie    Gras. 

1  Terrine   of   Foies   Gras. 

1  Pound  of  Fat  Pork. 
1    Pound    of    Goose    Fat. 

1-2  Can  of  Truffles. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A    Glass  of  Sherry  Wine. 

A  Puff  Paste. 

Procure  the  fat  livers  of  geese.  (They 
are  no  longer  to  be  bought  except  already 
prepared  in  cans,  Terrine  de  Foie  Gras 
aux  Truffles  du  Perigord,  Strasbourg.) 
To  this  allow  one  pound  of  fat  pork  and 
one  pound  of  the  fat  of  geese.  Chop 
these  and  the  livers  very  fine,  allowing 
pound  for  pound  of  the  fat  meat  and 
goose  fat  to  the  same  quantity  of  livers. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
moisten  it  well  with  Sherry  wine.  Chop 
a  half  can  of  truffles  and  mix,  and  put 
all  in  a  quart  or  pint  measure  baking 
pan,  which  you  will  have  lined  with  Puff 
Paste.  (See  recipe.)  The  pan  must  be 
about  two  and  a  half  or  three  inches 
deep.  Bake  this  paste,  and  then  fill  in 
with  the  foies  gras,  (Tover  with  a  light 
cover  of  the  dough,  and  decorate  around 
the  edges  with  the  clippings  of  dough 
that  remain.  Place  the  pie  in  the  oven, 
and  let  it  bake  for  about  an  hour  to  a 
nice  brown,  covering  for  the  first  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  with  a  piece  of  pa- 
per, to  prevent  burning.  When  done, 
serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 
This  is  the  real  Creole  Pate  de  Foie  Gras. 
Stewed  Foies  Gras 
Foies    Gras   en   Matelote. 

1  Terrine   of   Foies   Gras. 

Thin  Strips  of  Bacon. 

1  Carrot.     1  Onion. 

•    1  Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1  Wineglassful  of  WTiite  Wine. 

\  2    Spoonfuls    of    French    Brandy. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Get  the  prepared  Foies  Gras.  Cut  them 
into  slices  or  filets.  Lard  them  with  a 
larding  needle  and  then  place  at  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan  small  strips  of 
bacon,  cut  very  thin  and  fine.  Add  one 
carrot,  nicely  sliced;  one  onion,  nicel.v 
sliced,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley.  Cover  this  with  narrow  strips 
of  bacon,  and  moisten  with  sufficient 
White  wine  to  cover  well,  and  two  spoon- 
fuls of  Brandy.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
aifd  let  it  simmer  well  for  a  few  minutes. 


Then  add  the  livers,  and  let  them  sim- 
mer for  ten  minutes  longer.  Season  to 
taste,  cook  five  minutes  more  and  serve 
hot.  In  seasoning  the  livers  prepared  in 
this  manner  must  always  have  a  stimu- 
lating taste. 

Loaf  of  Foies  Gras 

Pain  de  Foie  Gras. 

Foies    Gras.     1-2   Can    of   Mushrooms. 

1-4   Can    of   Truffles.     2   Shallots. 
1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and 
Bay   Leaf. 
1  Leaf  of  Rose  Geranium. 
1-4  Teaspoonful  Each   of  Ground  Cinna- 
mon,  Allspice,   Cloves   and   Mace. 
1  Young  Sweetbread. 
1-2  Cup  of  the  Soft  of  Bread. 
The  Yolk  of  an  Egg. 
Grated  Bread  Crumbs. 

Choose  sufficient  livers  for  the  num- 
ber of  guests,  for  this  is  never  an  every- 
day dish,  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Let  them 
simmer  gently  and  add  a  half  can  of 
mushrooms  and  a  quarter  of  a  can  of 
truffles,  two  shallots,  nicely  minced;  a 
sprig  each  of  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  pars- 
ley, minced  fine;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mus- 
tard; the  leaf  of  one  geranium,  minced 
fine,  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  each  of 
ground  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves  and 
mace.  Mix  this  thoroughly  and  let  it 
simmer  in  the  juice  of  the  mushrooms 
for  about  twenty  minutes.  Then  take  a 
young  sweetbread  and  cook  according  to 
recipe  for  Plain  Fried  Sweetbreads,  and 
add  a  half  cup  of  the  soft  of  the  bread, 
well  moistened  with  milk.  Mix  this  witJti 
the  hashed  sweetbreads,  and  add  the 
yolk  of  an  egg.  Place  this  in  a  mortar 
with  the  foies  gras  and  mix  well.  Then 
turn  into  a  pan  and  brush  lightly  with 
the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  sprinkle 
grated  bread  crumbs  over.  Set  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water  (Bain-marie),  and  bake 
in  the  oven  for  about  a  half  hour. 

Foies    Gras   Loaf  Jellied. 

Pain  de  Foies  a  la  Gelee. 

Foies   Gras.     1   Slice   of  Fat  Fresh   Pork. 
1    Slice    of    Lean    Pork    (Grated). 
1-2    Can    of    Mushrooms. 
1-4  Can  of  Truffles. 
1  Calf's  Foot.     1  Bay  Leaf. 
Grated    Bread    Crumbs. 
1  Sprig  Bach  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 
1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Allspice,  Cin- 
namon, Cloves  and  Mace. 
1-2  Cup  of  the  Soft  of  Bread. 
The    Juice    of    1    Lemon. 
Bits  of  Lemon  Peel. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  French  Brandy. 
This   is   prepared   in   exactly    the   same 
manner    as    the    above,    only    the    sweet- 
breads   are    omitted,    and    in    their   place 
is  added  an  egg,  well  beaten,  and  a  piece 
of  grated  lean  and  fat  fresh  pork  meat. 
Add  a  half  can  of  mushrooms  again  and 
a    quarter    of    a    can    of    truffles,    and    a 
piece    of    calf's    foot.     Cook    into    a    mix- 
ture   of   the   consistency    of   gravy,   mash 
well  and  strain   in  a  sieve  after  season- 
ing very  highly;    add  the  juice.     Let  'this 
simmer  for   about  five  minutes  and   add 
the  pint  of  boiling  water.     Set  upon  the 
back    of   the   stove,    and    let    it    cook    for 
about  two  hours,  or  an  hour  and  a  half, 
according  to  the  age  of  the  goose,  throw- 
ing   in    the    bits    of    lemon    peel.     When 
done,    skim    carefully    of   all    grease,    and 
at  the  moment  of  serving  add  the  juice 
of   one -lemon  to   the  mixture   and  serve. 
This  is  a  very  rich  dish,  and  is  served  as 
an  entree. 


82 

CHAPTER  XVII. 
PIGEONS. 


Pigeons. 


Pigeons  are  of  two  kinds,  those  of  the 
dovecoat  and  those  that  are  shot  on  the 
wing,  commonly  called  doves.  The  latter 
are  always  broiled,  just  as  one  would 
broil  any  other  bird  or  a  tenderloin  beet- 
steak;  else  they  are  roasted  in  little 
bands  of  bacon.  The  former  are  prepared 
in  various  ways,  as.  Indeed,  the  latter 
may  be  also,  only  the  wild  taste  is  more 
apparent  when  broiled  or  roasted. 

Broiled    Pigeons. 

Pigeons    Grillees. 

6   or  8   Young   Squab. 

3   Tablespoonfuls   of   Melted   Butter. 

6   or  8  Pieces   of  Buttered  Toast. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Chopped  Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Squab  are  always  best  for  broiling. 
Pluck  and  clean  nicely  inside  and  out. 
Wipe  with  a  damp  towel.  Split  down 
the  back  and  spread  open  as  you  would 
a  broiled  chicken.  Have  the  gridiron  very 
hot.  Rub  the  pigeon  inside  and  out  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  brush  lightly  with 
butter.  Place  the  broiler  over  a  mod- 
erate furnace  fire,  from  which  all  the  gas 
has  been  exhausted,  and  let  it  broii 
slowly  ten  minutes  on  the  inner  side 
and  five  minutes  on  the  outer.  In  the 
meantime  toast  a  piece  of  bread  for  every 
pigeon  that  you  broil.  Moisten  well  with 
butter.  Place  the  squab  upon  the  toast, 
allowing  one  squab  for  each  piece  of 
toast,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and 
butter,  and  serve  hot.  It  is  always  well 
to  rub  the  pigeon  with  a  little  lemon 
juice,  as  that  renders  the  flesh  nice  and 
white. 

PigeonB    Broiled    a    la    Crapaudlne 

Pigeons    a    la    Crapaudlne. 

4  Pigeons.     The  Yolk  of  an  Egg. 

1  Cup  of  Milk.  1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A   Tomato   Sauce. 

This  is  a  famous  Creole  dish,  and  the 
object  is  to  so  dress  the  pigeons  that 
they  will  resemble  little  frogs,  hence 
the  name,   "Pigeons   a   la   Crapaudlne." 

Clean  the  pigeons  nicely,  inside  and 
out,  and  then  carefully  cut  the  breast 
from  the  loin  joints,  without  separating 
entirely.  Raise  the  breast  up  from  the 
shoulder  joints,  and  pass  it  over  the 
head  of  the  pigeon,  without  separating  it 
from  the  shoulders.  Then  press  it  down 
very  firmly  with  your  hands  or  a  masher. 
Have  ready  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  well 
beaten  in  a  cup  of  milk.  Season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Soak  the  pigeons 
in  it  well,  so  that  they  will  absorb  the 
milk  and  be  thoroughly  impregnated. 
Roll  over  and  over,  so  that  they  will 
gather  up  the  seasoning.  Then  pass 
them  through  bread  crumbs,  rolling  and 
then  patting  each  pigeon  with  your 
hands,  so  that  the  crumbs  will  hold. 
Brush  each  with  a  little  melted  butter. 
Have  ready  a  double  broiler,  well  heated, 
but  on  a  slow  fire.  Place  the  pigeons 
on  it,  broiling  very  slowly.  Broil  tor 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  allowing  from 
seven  to  ten  minutes  to  each  side,  and 
serve  with  Tomato  Sauce.     (See  recipe.) 


Roasted    Squab. 

Pigeons  Rotis  sur  Canapes. 

6  or  S  Young  Squab. 

6  or  8  Thin  Slices  of  Fat  Bacon. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

Truffles   (if  desired). 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water. 

6    or   8   Slices    of    Buttered   Toast. 

Use  squab  only  for  roasting.  Clean 
nicely,  and  then  truss  the  pigeon  as  you 
would  a  turkey,  only  use  wooden  skew* 
ers  to  hold  the  wings  and  legs  in  place. 
Take  a  slice  of  nice  fat  pork  and  fasten 
it  around  the  body  of  each  pigeon,  pass- 
ing over  the  breast.  Put  a  bit  of  butter 
about  the  size  of  a  pecan  in  each  bird, 
and,  if  you  can  afford  to  do  so,  you  may 
stuff  with  truffles.  But  this  is  a  matter 
of  taste.  Put  the  pigeons  in  the  roasting 
pan,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
The  oven  should  be  hot,  but  must  not  be 
scorching.  Baste  the  birds  frequently, 
and  let  them  roast  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  according  to  their  size.  Prepare 
toasted  bread,  one  slice  for  each  pigeon. 
Butter  well,  and  then  remove  the  fat 
pork  and  place  the  pigeons  on  the 
toast.  Pour  over  each  a  little  of  the 
gravy  which  has  been  made  in  the  roast- 
ing pan,  allowing  it  to  soak  into  the 
bread.  Serve  hot,  with  a  jelly,  prefer- 
ably Cranberry  Sauce.     (See  recipe.) 

Compote    of    Pigeons. 

Pigeons   en   Compote. 

6  Fine  Fat  Squab.    A  Half  Can  of  Mush- 
rooms. 
1  Clove  of  Garlic. 
2  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 
1  Bay  Leaf.     1  Onion. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  White  TiVine. 
1  Tablespoonful   of  Butter. 
1-2  Cup  of  Consomme. 

Clean  the  squabs  nicely;  singe,  draw 
and  truss,  with  their  legs  inside.  Rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  three 
cloves,  ground  very  fine,  and  three  all- 
spice, also  ground  very  fine.  Take  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter  and  melt  in  a 
saucepan.  Add  the  sliced  onion,  and  as 
it  browns  add  the  sliced  carrot.  Let  this 
simmer  gently  for  three  or  four  minutes, 
and  then  add  a  minced  sprig  of  thyme, 
and  parsley,  and  one  bay  leaf  and  the 
clove  of  a  garlic,  minced  very  fine.  Let 
all  this  brown,  and  then  place  on  top  the 
pigeons,  which  you  will  have  bound  in 
thin  strips  of  bacon  tied  around  th& 
body.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  White 
wine  and  cover  well.  Let  this  simmer 
for  about  fifteen  minutes,  till  the  pigeons 
are  nicely  browned,  and  then  add  a  half 
cup  of  consomme,  if  you  have  it;  if  not, 
a  half  cup  of  boiling  water.  After  ten 
minutes  add  a  half  can  of  mushrooms. 
Let  all  simmer  gently  for  an  hour  longer, 
being  careful  not  to  let  the  pigeons  go 
to  pieces.  Watch,  therefore,  very  care- 
fully. Place  each  pigeon  on  a  slice  of 
toasted  Crouton,  and  garnish  with  the 
mushrooms.  Pour  over  the  gravy,  and 
serve  hot.  This  is  a  most  excellent  com- 
pote. 


83 


Squab    With    Green    Peas. 

Pigeons  Etouffes  aux  Petit  Pols. 

3  Pigeons.    1  Pint  of  Green  Peas. 

1-4  Inch  of  Ham.    2  Onions. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  the  pigeons  nicely,  leaving  them 
whole,  as  you  would  a  fowl  that  is  to  be 
roasted,  and  truss  nicely.  Take  two 
onions  and  slice  well,  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Let  them  brown  slightly,  and 
lay  the  pigeons  that  have  been  rubbed 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  inside  and  out, 
on  top  of  the  onions.  Cover  closely  and 
let  them  smother.  Then  add  for  one 
pigeon  one-half  or  one-quarter  of  an 
inch  of  nice  ham,  minced  very  fine,  to 
give  a  good  seasoning.  Then  add  one 
sprig  of  thyme  and  one  bay  leaf,  and 
the  clove  of  a  garlic,  minced  very  fine. 
Let  this  smother  very  slowly  for  ten  oi 
fifteen  minutes.  When  well  browned 
moisten  with  a  cup  of  consomme  or 
broth,  and  add  one  pint  of  fresh  green 
peas,  or  one  can.  Cover  tight,  and  let  all 
simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  one  hour,  or 
more  if  the  pigeons  are  not  very  tender. 
Serve  on  a  platter,  placing  the  pigeons 
In  the  center  and  heaping  the  green  peas 
around.  This  is  delicious,  and  the  real 
Creole  method  of  cooking  pigeons  with 
green  peas. 

Pigreons    and    Crawfish. 

Pigeqns    a    la    Cardinale. 

3    Pigeons.     2    Dozen    Crawfish. 

1   Slice  of  Fat  Bacon.    1  Square  Inch  of 

Ham. 

1  Onion.    1  Carrot.     1  Herb  Bouquet. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

Clean  the  pigeons  nicely,  and  rub  in- 
side and  out  with  the  juice  of  a  lemou. 
Then  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  brush 
with  melted  butter.  Place  thin  strips  of 
fat  bacon  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan, 
lay  the  pigeons  on  this,  and  cover  with 
another  thin  layer  of  strips  of  bacon. 
Cover  with  butter  and  set  in  a  slow  oven. 


and  let  them  simmer  gently.  In  the  mean- 
time prepare  a  "Poele"  as  follows:  Take 
a  small  square  inch  of  ham,  chop  or 
mince  very  fine,  and  fry  in  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter.  Add  an  onion  ami 
a  carrot,  chopped  fine.  Let  these  brown, 
and  then  add  an  herb  bouquet,  minced 
very  fine.  When  brown  add  a  cup  of 
bouillon,  and  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Pour  this  sauce  over  the  baking  pigeons, 
and  let  them  cook  slowly  for  about  an 
hour,  or  until  done.  In  the  meantime 
boil  about  two  dozen  nice  crawfish,  ac- 
cording to  recipe  (see  Crawfish),  and, 
when  the  pigeons  are  done,  place  them 
on  buttered  Croutons  and  place  between 
each  a  garnish  of  crawfish.  Add  about 
a  half  cup  of  the  broth  in  which  the 
crawfish  have  been  boiled  to  the  gravy 
in  the  baking  dish.  Let  it  simmer  for 
five  minutes  till  reduced  slightly,  and 
pour  over  the  pigeons.  This  is  Creole  to 
the  letter. 

Pigeon  Pie, 

Vol-au-Vent  de  Pigeons. 

6  Young  Wiild  Pigeons. 
1  Onion.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 
1  Sprig  Each  Thyme,  Bay  Leaf  and  Pars- 
ley. 
Pie  Paste. 

Clean  and  cut  the  young  pigeons  into 
small  pieces  of  about  two  inches  in 
length  and  make  a  plain  fricassee.  (See 
Fricassee  Brown  Gravy.)  Prepare  a  Vol- 
au-Vent  Paste  (see  recipe)  and  fill  a 
tin  pan  of  about  two  quarts  with  the 
paste.  Pour  in  pigeons  and  gravy,  and 
let  bake  in  the  oven  till  the  top  crust 
is  nicely  browned.  Always  bake  the 
under  crust  first.  This  is  a  delightful 
entree  at  any  feast. 

Again,  the  pie  may  be  prepared  as  fol- 
lows: After  cleaning  the  pigeons,  stuff 
each  daintily  with  oyster  or  egg  dressing 
and  then  loosen  the  joints  with  a  knife 
without  separating  them.  Put  into  a 
stewpan  and  make  a  plain  fricassee  as 
above  indicated.  Let  them  cook  until 
tender,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fill  the  pie  dish  with  the  pie  paste;  put 
in  the  birds,  pour  over  the  gravy,  cover 
with  a  crust  and  bake. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 
GAME. 


Glbier. 


The  number  and  variety  of  the  game 
of  the  Louisiana  forests  have  been  the 
subject  of  many  a  magazine  and  news- 
paper article,  and  the  administration  and 
Joy  of  the  chasseurs,  or  hunters,  from 
earliest  days.  Our  birds  alone  are  so 
distinct  and  remarkable  that  the  great 
Audubon  devoted  his  life  to  their  study, 
and  his  volume  on  the  birds  of  Louisi- 
ana stands  out  as  the  greatest  work  ex- 
tant upon  birds.  The  fact  is,  that  all 
through  the  year,  from  January  to  De- 
cember, fancy  game  may  be  found  In  the 
New  Orleans  markets,  though  the  game 
laws  are  very  strict,  and  no  bird  is  al- 
lowed to  be  shot  out  of  season. 

Something    to    Remember   When    OooklnK 

Game. 

Game  should  never  be  fried.  This  Is 
horrible.  The  larger  game  is  roasted  or 
broiled,  or,  as  with  ducks  and  venison, 
squirrels  and  rabbits,  made  into  stews 
or  "salmis."  The  smaller  game  Is  roasted 
or  broiled. 


VENISON. 


Du  Chevreuil. 

The  meat   of  Venison   may   be   kept  in 

cold  weather  at  least  ten  or  twelve  days, 

if  hung  in  a  cold  place;  in  warm  weather 

for    much    less    time,    unless    dried.     The 

meat  of  fresh  Venison  is  of  a  fine  grain, 

and   is   always   nicely   covered   with   fat. 

The  age  of  the  deer  can  always  be  told 

by  examining  the  hoofs;    if  it  is  young, 

the   hoofs   will   be  very  slightly   opened; 

if    old,    they    will    stand    apart      Of    all 

meats,   Venison   cooks   the   most  rapidly. 

Venison   is    always    best   when   the    deer 

has    been    killed    in    the    autumn.     Wild 

berries  are  then  plentiful  and  the  animal 

has  then  abundant  opportunity  to  fatten 

upon  this  and  other  fresh,  wild  food. 

Boast    Haunch    of    Venison. 

Culssot  de  Chevreuil  Rotl. 

A  Haunch  or  Saddle  of     Venison. 

Melted  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Watercress    to    Garnish.    Currant    Jelly. 


Prepare  the  haunch  or  saddle  of  Veni- 
son in  the  same  manner  as  you  would  the 
roast  beef.  (See  recipe  Roast  Beef.)  Onl> 
pour  a  cup  of  water  over  the  venison 
when  putting  in  the  oven,  for  it  is  a 
dry  meat,  and  requires  a  little  moistening 
if  roasted.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  allow- 
ing ten  minutes  to  the  pound.  A  haunch 
of  Doe  Venison  will  require  in  the  ag- 
gregate half  an  hour  less  time  to  roast 
than  Buck  Venison.  To  prevent  the  hoof 
and  hair  just  above  changing  color  In 
cooking  always  bind  this  with  a  coarse 
piece  of  muslin,  in  four  or  five  pieces  of 
thickness,  covering  the  hoof  and  hair. 
Wet  with  cold  water,  and  bind  a  buttered 
paper  tightly  around  and  over  it.  Baste 
every  ten  minutes,  with  melted  buttei 
first,  and  then  with  the  drippings  of  thn 
Venison.  When  half  cooked,  turn  the 
Venison  over,  so  that  the  other  side  may 
cook.  Unbind  the  hoofs  and  garnish 
them  with  quilled  paper.  Place  the  Veni- 
son on  a  dish  garnished  with  Watercress. 
Serve  with  Currant  Jelly.     (See  recipe.) 

Saddle   of    Venison,    Currant   Jelly    Sauce. 

Selle    de    Chevreuil,    Sauce    GrOseille. 

A   Saddle  of  Venison   Weighing  About  5 

Pounds. 

1  Onion.     1  Carrot. 

1-2  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2   Glass    of   Madeira    Wine. 

1   Gill    of   Consomme. 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 

Skin  the  Venison  neatly  and  remove 
all  the  sinews  from  the  surface.  Take 
fine  larding  needles  and  lard  closely.  Tie 
the  saddle  around  four  times.  Slice  the 
carrot  and  onion  and  put  in  the  roasting 
pan.  Place  the  Saddle  of  Venison  on  top 
of  these,  sprinkle  lightly  with  a  pincli 
of  salt,  and  spread  a  half  tablespoonful 
of  butter  over.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  and 
roast  for  forty  minutes,  frequently  bast- 
ing the  Venison  with  its  own  gravy.  Be- 
fore takine  it  from  the  pan  remove  the 
cord  which  binds  it  and  place  the  sad- 
dle in  a  hot  dish.  Then  pour  the  Ma- 
deira wine  and  a  gill  of  veal  consomme 
into  the  pan,  set  on  the  stove  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil.  Then  skim  the  gravy  of 
all  fat  and  strain  over  the  Venison.  Serve 
with  a  hot  Currant  Jelly  Sauce  as  fol- 
lows: Take  a  half  pint  of  Currant  Jelly 
and  stir  till  it  is  thoroughly  dissolved. 
Then  put  in  a  saucepan  a  wineglassful  of 
good  old  Port  wine,  and  set  on  the  stove 
and  let  it  come  gradually  to  a  boll. 
Add  the  currant  Jelly  and  mix  till  thor- 
oughly dissolved;  then  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  Sauce  Espagnole  (see  recipe)  and 
let  it  again  come  to  a  boil.  Serve  with 
the  Venison,  sending  each  to  the  tabic 
separately. 

Venison  steaks  broiled  may  also  be 
served  with  this  sauce.  The  steaks  are 
placed  in  a  dish  one  overlapping  the 
other;  the  hot  sauce  is  poured  over  and 
thus  sent  to  the  table. 

Venison    Stcalis   a      la      Poivrade. 

Filet    de    Chevreuil    a    la    Poivrade. 

6  Filets  or  as  Many  Filets  as  Desired 

Salt     and     Pepper     to     Taste.     A     Sauoe 

Poivrade. 

The  filets  or  Venison  steaks  are  taken 
from  any  part  of  the  Venison.  The  best 
are  from  the  haunch  or  leg,  and  out 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness 
Rub  them  well  with  salt  and  pepper  a-^d 
then  fry  in  butter,  allowing  about  five 
minutes  to  the  steak.  Venison  must  bt 
served  on  a  very  hot  dish  and  eaten  hot 
Place  in  a  heated  dish,  and  garnish  with 
melted   butter   and    chopped   parsley,    and 


serve  with  a  Sauce  Poivrade  for  Venison 
(see  recipe),  pouring  the  sauce  over  the 
steaks.     This   is   a   delicious  dish. 

Venison    Outlets    Broiled. 

Cotelettes    de    Chevreuil    Grilles. 
6  Venison  Cutlets. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butter. 
CJhopped   Parsley. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Watercress  to  Garnish. 
Trim  the   cutlets   nicely,  rub   well  witt 
salt  and  pepper,  brush  with  a  little  but- 
ter,  and  broil  over  a  quick,  clear  fire,  al- 
lowing about  eight  minutes,   or  less;  ac- 
cording   to    size,     to    each    cutlet.    They 
must  always,  like  all  Venison,  be  under- 
done.    When  cooked,  place  in  a  very  hot 
dish,    pour    over    a    little    melted    butter 
and  chopped  parsley,  garnish  with  water- 
cress, and  serve  with  Currant  Jelly. 
Stewed  Venison  a  la  Creole, 
Salmi    de    Chevreuil    a    la    Creole. 

Venison  Steaks,   or  Rougher  Part  of  the 

Deer. 

2  Onions.     1  Square  Inch  of  Ham. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 
1    Herb    Bouquet,    Chopped   Fine 

1    Glass   of   Claret      1   Cud   of  Water. 
1   Can  of  Mushrooms. 

The  rougher  parts  of  Venison  are 
usually  used  for  stewing,  but  the  dish 
is  most  delicious  when  made  of  Venison 
steaks.  Cut  the  Venison  into  two-inch 
square  pieces,  and  rub  well  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Chop  two  onions  very  fine,  and 
put  them  in  a  stewpan  with-  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  melted  butter.  Let  them  brown 
slightly;  then  add  the  Venison  meat.  Let 
it  brown  slightly,  and  then  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  and  let  this  brown  a 
little.  Chop  the  square  inch  of  ham  very 
fine,  mincing  it,  and  add.  Then  add  the 
clove  of  garlic,  and  two  sprigs  each  of 
thyme  and  parsley  and  a  bay  leaf,  minced 
fine.  Let  this  brown  nicely,  and  pour 
over  one  glass  of  good  Claret.  L.et  this 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  it  Con- 
stantly, so  that  it  will  not  burn,  and  then 
add  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well, 
season  again  to  taste,  and  let  it  boil  for 
thirty  minutes,  and  serve  hot.  This  dish 
will  be  improved  beyond  estimation  If 
a  can  of  mushrooms  is  added  immediate- 
ly after  adding  the  water.  But  it  may 
be  made  without  the  mushrooms.  Serve 
very  hot. 

Venison,    Hunter's    Style. 

Chevreuil    a    la    Chasseur. 

3  Pounds  of  Venison  Meat. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Onion.     1  Square  Inch  of  Ham. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Flour. 

1    Clove    of    Garlic.     2    Sprigs    of   Thyme. 

2  Bay  Leaves. 

1-3    Fox    of    Mushrooms.     The    Zest   of   a 

Lemon. 

1    Glass    of   White    Wine. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Croutons  to  Garnish. 

Cut  the  Venison  into  pieces  of  about 
two  inches  square.  Salt  and  pepper  well. 
Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  Into  a 
saucepan  with  the  Venison  and  let  it 
brown  slowly.  When  nearly  brown,  add 
an  onion,  chopped  fine,  and  let  this  brown 
slightly;  then  add  the  ham,  minced  very 
tine,  and  the  clove  of  garlic  and  ba-/ 
leaves  and  thyme,  minced  verv  fine.  Stir 
In  with  the  Aenison,  and  let  these  brown 
for  about  two  minutes.  Then  add  a  ta- 
blespoonful   of    flour    and    brown    for   a 


85 


few  minutes  more.  Add  a  half  bottle  of 
White  wine  and  let  all  simmer  for  five 
minutes.  Then  add  a  quart  of  consomme 
or  water  and  let  all  cook  for  about  one 
hour.  Season  again  according  to  taste 
and  add  a,  half  can  of  mushrooms 
chopped  fine  and  the  zest  of  a  lemon  and 
season  again  to  taste.  Let  all  cook  a 
half  hour  longer  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish 
with  Croutons  fried  in  butter. 

Stewed    Venison,    French    Style. 

.Civet  de   Chevreuil   a,   la  Francaise. 

2 1-2  Pounds   of  Venison    (the   lower   and 

lean  part  preferable). 

A  Handful   of  Parsley.     1   Onion. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme.     2  Bay  Leaves. 

12     Whole     Peppers.     A     Half     Glass     of 

Vinegar. 

1 1-2   Glass   of  Claret. 

1  Pint  of  Veal  Consomme. 

1  Ounce  of  Salt  Pork.     12  Small  Onions. 

1  Dozen  and  a  Half  Mushrooms. 

1   Herb   Bouquet. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste.     Croutons. 

Cut  the  Venison  into  small  pieces  of 
about  two  inches  square.  Make  a  "Ma- 
rinade" by  placing  the  Venison  in  an 
earthen  jar  with  one  large  onion  sliced, 
a  handful  of  parsley,  the  chopped  thyme 
and  bay  leaf,  the  whole  peppers,  a  light 
seasoning  of  salt  and  black  pepper,  and 
the  vinegar.  Let  the  Venison  marinate 
for  twelve  hours.  Then  drain  it  from 
the  juice  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  the  best  but- 
ter, and  let  it  brown  over .  a  moderate 
fire.  After  ten  minutes  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  constantly. 
Then  moisten  with  the  consomme  and 
the  claret.  Season  again  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Then  add  the  small  onions 
which  have  been  nicely  peeled,  and  one 
ounce  of  salt  pork  and  the  herb  bou- 
quet. Let  all  cook  about  forty  minutes, 
and  about  five  minutes  before  serving 
add  the  mushrooms.  Take  the  herb  bou- 
quet from  the  preparation;  place  the  lat- 
ter on  a  hot  dish  and  decorate  nicely 
with  toasted  Croutons,  and  serve  hot. 

Venison  in   a   Chafing   Dish 

Chevreuil  au  Rechaud. 

8  or  10  Slices  of  Venison. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Currant  Jelly. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  VS^ater. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  way  of  pre- 
paring Venison.  The  old  Creoles  use,  if 
a  chafing  dish  is  not  available,  a  little 
alcohol  lamp  and  a  frying  pan.  Slice 
the  Venison  very  thin  in  pieces  about  t-^o 
inches  long  and  one  inch  wide,  and  about 
the  thickness  of  a  silver  dollar.  Have 
the  chafing  dish  or  alcohol  lamp  on  the 
dining  table,  as  you  sit  to  eat.  The  pan 
must  be  very  hot.  The  meat  must  be 
well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
ready  to  put  into  the  pan.  Put  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter  into  the  dish.  Let  it 
get  very  hot,  without  burning.  Put  the 
slices  of  Venison  in  the  dish.  In  one 
minute  turn  them  over.  Take  a  table 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  blend  well 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  Currant  Jelly 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  Spread 
this  over  the  cooking  Venison.  Turn 
again.  Let  it  cook  for  five  minutes  only, 
and  serve  very  hot.  This  is  one  of  the 
finest  old-fashioned  Creole  dishes,  and  is 
good  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or  supper. 
Bear  in  mind  that  to  be  effective  it  must 
be  made  at  the  table,  as  It  will  lose  half 


its  flavor  if  brought  from  the  kitchen  to 
the  table. 

Venison    Hash. 

Hachis  de  Chevreuil. 

3    Cups    of    Left-Over    Venison. 

6  Potatoes.     1  Herb  Bouquet. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard  or  Butter. 

This  is  a  splendid  way  of  utilizing  the 
left-over  Venison.  After  having  taken 
off  all  the  rough  edges  of  the  roast  and 
cut  out  the  gristle  and  hard  membrane, 
hash  the  Venison  into  pieces  of  about 
one  inch  in  size.  Take  six  left-over  to- 
matoes, or  freshly  boiled,  and  cut  into 
quarters.  Chop  fine  one  herb  bouquet. 
Place  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  a  half 
tablespoonful  of  lard  into  the  stewpot, 
and  as  it  melts  add  the  Venison,  seasoned 
well,  and  a  few  minutes  later  the  fine 
herbs.  Mince  the  clove  of  a  garlic  if  the 
flavor  is  liked  and  add.  Stir  constantly 
without  browning  much,  and  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  flour.  Let  this  brown  very 
slightly,  and  then  add  the  tomatoes. 
Cover  and  let  all  simmer  for  about  twen- 
ty minutes,  and  then  pour  over  a  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Season  again  to  taste 
and  set  back  on  the  stove  and  let  it  sim- 
mer gently  for  about  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Cut  some  Croutons  and  fry 
them  in  butter;  place  on  a  dish  -and  serve 
with  the  hash.  ^ 

WILD    TURKEY. 

Dinde  Sauvage. 
The  wild  turkey  abounds  in  Louisiana. 
It  is  roasted  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
domestic  fowl  (see  recipe)  and  always 
served  with  Cranberry  Sauce.  (See  re- 
cipe.) 

WILD    DUCKS. 
Canards  Sauvages. 

The  wild  duck?,  so  much  enjoyed  in 
Louisiana,  are  many,  but  the  most  fa- 
mous are  the  Canvasback  Ducks,  or 
"Cannards  Cheval,"  the  more  delicate 
"Teal  Ducks,"  or  "Sarcelles,"  and  the 
noted  Mallard  Ducks,  or  "Canards  Pran- 
eais."  Then  we  have  a  species  of  water 
fowl  called  the  "Poule  d'Bau,"  or  water 
chicken,  which  lives  exclusively  In  the 
waters  of  the  Louisiana  bayous  and 
marshes;  as  it  never  comes  on  dry  land, 
it  has  been  classed  by  the  ancient  Creoles 
among  the  fish,  and  is  eaten  on  Fridays 
and  fast  days,  when  flesh  meat  is  pro- 
hibited to  Catholics. 

In  the  following  recipes  given  be- 
low, it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  all 
tame  or  domestic  ducks  may  be  cooked 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  wild  ducks. 
For  this  reason  it  would"be  superfluous 
to  give  a  special  section  to  the  former. 
But  the  flavor  of  the  wild  duck  is  such 
that  it  is  always  preferred  on  Creole  ta- 
bles as  the  superior  bird.  Ducks  are 
stewed  or  roasted.  The  wild  goose,  or  "Die 
Sauvage,"  is  cooked  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  wild  duck  and  the  domestic  goose. 
The  "Duckling,"  or  "Canneton,"  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  delicate  "Teal  Duck" 
or  "Sarcelle." 

In  cleaning  all  game,  remember  that 
they  must  be  hand-picked,  and  never 
scalded,  as  scalding  utterly  ruins  their 
flavor.  Wild  duck  should  not  be  dressed 
too  soon  after  being  killed. 

Canvasback  Duck. 

Canatd    Cheval. 

Epicureans  declare  that  the  Canvas- 
back    Duck    is    the   King    of    Birds.     And 


S6 


as  it  feeds  mostly  on  wild  celery,  it  re- 
quires no  flavors  or  spices  to  make  it 
perfect.  The  bird  partakes  of  the  flavor 
of  the  celery  on  which  it  feeds.  This  de- 
licious flavor  is  best  preserved  when  the 
duck  is  roasted  quickly  with  a  hot  fire. 
And  so  also  with  the  dainty  Mallard  or 
French  Ducks. 

Mallard     Ducks     or     Ganvasback     Ducks 
Boasted. 

Canards   FYancais  ou   Canard   Cheval 
Rotis. 

1    Pair    of    Wild    Ducks. 

1     Tablespoonful     of     Butter.     Salt     and 

Pepper   to   Taste. 

Clean  the  ducks  as  you  would  a  chick- 
en, without  scalding,  however.  Rinse  out 
the  inside  and  wipe  well  inside  and  out 
with  a  wet  towel.  But  do  not  wash  the 
duck  unless  you  have  broken  the  gall 
bladder,  as  the  washing  destroys  their 
flavor.  Rub  the  inside  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  rub  outside  as  thorough- 
ly. Place  a  three-inch  lump  of  butter  on 
the  inside.  Truss  nicely  and  place  tha 
ducks  in  a  baking  pan,  and  brush  the 
tops  with  melted  butter.  Pour  over  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  set  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  and  allow  them  to  bak^ 
t^wenty  minutes,  if  they  are  not  very 
large,  and  thirty  minutes,  if  larger  than 
the  ordinary  size  of  Canvasback  ducks. 
A  wild  duck  is  never  cooked  dry.  It  must 
reach  the  point  where  the  blood  will  not 
run  if  the  flesh  is  pierced  with  the  fork 
in  carving.  When  done,  place  the  ducks 
in  a  very  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  their 
own  gravy  poured  over  them.  Garnish 
nicely  with  parsley  or  watercress.  Serve 
with  Currant  Jelly.  Always  have  the 
plates  very  hot  in  which  you  serve  the 
ducks  at  table. 

Broiled     Canvasback    Ducks. 

Canards   Cheval   Grillees. 

1  Pair  of  Ducks. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Olive  Oil. 

Salt  and   Pepper. 

Drawn  Butter   Sauce. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Minced  Parsley  to  Garnish. 

The  Canvasback  Duck  Is  very  excellent 
when  broiled.  Hunters  often  serve  it 
thus  when  on  long  hunts,  and  it  is  said 
the  taste  of  the  game  Just  bagged  is  be- 
yond estimate.  Broiled  Canvasbaoks  are 
served  as  follows  on  the  Creole  table: 
Clean  the  duck  nicely,  as  for  broiling  a 
chicken,  wipe  well  and  split  down  the 
middle  of  the  back  In  the  same  manner 
as  for  a  chicken.  Season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Rub  the  duck  well  witli 
olive  oil  of  the  best  quality,  and  place  on 
the  broiler.  Turn  It  over  at  least  twice, 
so  that  it  will  cook  thoroughly  through 
and  through  without  burning.  Let  it  cook 
from  seven  to  ten  minutes  on  either  side. 
Place  on  a  dish  that  is  very  hot,  pour 
over  a  Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  in  which 
you  will  have  squeezed  the  Juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  mixed  some  minced  parsley. 
Decorate  with  watercress  or  parsley 
sprigs.  Bring  to  the  table  covered  and 
very  hot,  and  serve  on  heated  plates. 
This  dish  Is  very  elegant. 

Stewed    Wild    Dnoks. 

Salmi  de  Canards  Sauvage  a  la   Creole. 

1  Pair  of  Ducks. 

1  Square  Inch   of  Ham.    2  Onions. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.    1    Clove    of 

Garlic. 

1  Herb  Bouquet,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

1  Glass  of  Claret.     1  Cup  of  Water. 


Clean  and  pick  the  ducks  nicely.  Cut 
Into  joints,  or  stew  whole,  as  desired. 
The  Creoles  generally  cut  them  into 
Joints.  Rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Chop  two  onions  very  fine.  Put  them 
into  the  stewpan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  and  let  them  brown  slight- 
ly. Then  add  the  well-seasoned  ducks. 
Let  these  brown  well  and  add  the  one 
square  inch  of  finely  minced  ham.  Add 
the  clove  of  garlic  and  two  sprigs  each 
of  thyme,  parsley  and  one  bay  leaf, 
minced  very  fine.  Let  this  brown  with 
the  ducks,  stirring  frequentlv,  and  then 
pour  over  one  good  glass  of  caret.  Let 
this  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
constantly,  so  that  it  will  not  burn,  and 
add  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Season 
well  to  taste,  and  let  the  ducks  simmer 
well  for  about  an  hour. 

Ducks    Stewed    With    Mushrooms. 

Salmi   de  Canards  aux  Champignons. 

1  Pair  of  Ducks.     1  Square  Inch  of  Ham. 
2  Onions.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1  Herb  Bouquet,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

1  Glass  of  Claret.     1  Cup  of  Water. 

1  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

Prepare  the  Ducks  for  cooking  exactly 
as  in  the  above  recipe  and  proceed  to 
cook  accordingly.  Immediately  after 
adding  the  boiling  water  add  a  can  of 
mushrooms,  and  continue  cooking  ac- 
cording to  recipe.  The  mushrooms  add 
a  delicious  flavor  to  the  dish.  Serve  hot, 
using  the   mushrooms   as   a  garnish. 

Wild    Dncks,    Honters'   Style. 

Salmi    de   Canards    Sauvages  a  la  Chas- 
seurs. 

2  Fine   Canvasback   Ducks. 

1-2  Pint  of  Veal  Broth  or  Water. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Dozen    Mushrooms,    Sliced. 

3  Fresh  or  Canned  Tomatoes. 

1  Onion. 

1-2    Gla^s    of    Madeira    Wine    or    Lemon 

Juice. 

1-2  Pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole. 

The  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 

Croutons. 

Pick  the  ducks;  singe,  draw,  and,  after 
rinsing  clean  within,  wipe  neatly  within 
and  without;  cut  off  the  wings,  legs  and 
breasts;  then  take  the  two  carcasses 
and  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  place 
in  the  oven  to  bake  about  six  minutes. 
Then  remove  the  carcasses  and  hash 
them  up.  Put  them  Into  the  saucepan; 
add  a  pint  of  veal  broth,  consomme  or 
water  In  lieu  of  either  of  these.  Add 
a  herb  bouquet  tied  together,  and  lot 
the  preparation  simmer  for  about  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  over  a  moderate  fire.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  Into  a  sauce- 
pan, and  lay  In  the  wings,  breasts  and 
legs  of  the  Ducks;  season  lightly  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  set  on  a  very  brisk 
fire  and  let  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  on 
either  side.  Now  add  a  half  glassful  of 
Madeira  wine  and  a  half  pint  of  Sauce 
Espagnole  and '  the  grated  zest  of  a 
lemon.  Take  the  gravy  from  the  car- 
casses and  strain  over  the  Ducks,  and 
allow  all  to  cook  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Then  place  on  a  hot  dish  and  dec- 
orate nicely  with  Croutons  fried  In  but- 
ter and  cut  in  dice  shape. 


87 


Ducks  a,  la   Bourgreoise. 

Salmi   de  Canards  a,  la   Bourgeoise. 

2    Fine    Canvasbaclc   Ducks 

1  Tablespoontul  of  Butter. 

3  Tomatoes  (fresh  or  canned). 

12  Onions.     2  Carrots. 

1-2  Glass  of  Madeira  Wine. 

The  Zest  of  1   Lemon. 

1-2  Pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole. 

1-2    Pint    of    Consomme    or    "Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Prepare  the  Ducks  and  cook  according 
to  above  recipe.  After  placing  finally  in 
the  saucepan,  add  twelve  small  onions 
which  have  been  nicely  glazed  (see  re- 
cipe "Glaze") ;  add  the  two  carrots  cut 
into  small  dice  and  which  have  been 
cooked  in  salted  water  for  two  minutes, 
before  adding  to  the  ducks;  also  add  a 
half  ounce  ■  of  salt  pork  cut  into  halt- 
inch  pieces  Let  these  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  with  the  ducks  and  serve  on  a 
hot  dish  with  Croutons. 

Stewed   Ducks   With   Turnips. 

Salmi   de    Canards    aux   Navets. 

1   Pair   of  Ducks.     6   Turnips. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Onions,  Chopped  Fine. 

1  Square  Inch  of  Ham,  Minced  Very  Fine. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste.     1    Clove    of 

Garlic. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  delightful  ways 
of  cooking  wild  ducks.  The  turnip  blends 
well  with  the  flavor  of  the  wild  ducks, 
and  a  nicer  way  of  serving  this  vegeta- 
ble in  combination  does  not  exist.  Clean 
the  Ducks,  and  cut  into  pieces  at  the 
joints.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
into  the  pot,  and,  as  it  melts,  add  the 
onions,  chopped  fine.  Let  this  brown, 
and  then  add  the  pieces  of  Ducks.  Let 
them  brown,  and  add  the  minced  ham. 
Immediately  after  add  the  turnips,  sliced 
or  cut  in  quarters,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sifted  flour.  Stir  well,  let  the  flour 
brown-  slightly  and  add  the  minced  thymt, 
parsley  and  bay  leaf,  and  one  clove  of 
garlic,  minced  very  fine.  Stir  well 
again,  and  let  it  smother  for  about  fif- 
teen minutes,  stirring  frequently,  so  that 
it  will  not  burn.  Then  add  water,  al- 
most sufficient  to  cover  the  Ducks,  and 
stir  well.  Cover  tight,  and  let  the  mix- 
ture smother  for  a  half  hour  longer. 

WUd    Ducks    With    Olives. 

Salmi  de  Canards  aux   Olives. 

3  Cups  of  Left-Over  Duck. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1    Onion. 

2  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

1  Cup  of  Broth  or  Water. 

1  Glass  of  Claret. 

2  Dozen    Spanish    Olives. 

Toasted    Croutons 

This  is  a  nice  way  to  utilize  the  left- 
over Duck;  take  all  the  remains  of  the 
Duck  and  select  the  good  parts,  and  cut 
them  into  pieces  of  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  square.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  into  the  stewpan,  and.  as  it 
browns,  add  one  onion,  chopped  fine.  Stir 
this  brown  and  then  add  the  Duck.  Stir 
well;  add  the  tablespoonful  of  sifted 
flour,  stir  again,  and  in  four  or  fivo 
minutes  add  two  sprigs  each  of  thyme 
and  parsley  and  one  bay  leaf,  minced 
very  fine.  Let  this  brown  well,  and 
smother    nicely    for    about    ten    minutes. 


Add  a  pint  of  good  broth  if  you  have 
it;  if  not,  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
well,  and  season  again  according  to  taste. 
Pour  in  a  half  glass  of  good  Claret,  and 
add  about  two  dozen  fine  olives,  stoned. 
Let  all  boil  for  thirty  minutes  longer, 
and  serve  hot,  with  garnish  of  diamond - 
shaped   toasted   Croutons. 

Stewed    Ducks,     Peasant     Style. 

Salmi    de    Canards    a .  la    Paysanne. 

1  Pair  of  Fine  Ducks,  French  or  Canvas 
back. 

1  Dozen    Glazed    Onions.     2    Carrots. 

1   Square    Inch    of    Ham. 

1  Cup  of  Green  Peas. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

2  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1    Clove    of    Garlic.     1    Tablespoonful    of 

Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Salt   and    Pepper   to    Taste. 

1  Glass   of   Madeira   or   Sherry  Wine. 

The  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 

Prepare  the  Ducks  exactly  as  in  the 
recipe  for  "Stewed  Ducks  With  Turnips  ' 
(see  recipe),  only  the  turnips  are  omitted. 
Add  two  carrots  cut  into  dice  pieces,  and 
twelve  glazed  onions  and  the  green  peas. 
A  quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving  add 
a  glass  of  Madeira  wine.  Serve  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  Croutons  fried  in  butter, 
using  the  onions  as  a  garnish  with  the 
Croutons. 

Stewed    Ducks,     French    Marshal     Style. 

Salmi  de  Canards  a  la  Marechale  Fran- 
caise. 

1  Pair  of  Fine  Ducks,  French  or  Canvas- 
back. 
12    Godiveau    Quenelles.     12    Mushrooms. 

2  Onions  Chopped  Fine.     1  Bay  Leaf. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic.    1  Square  Inch  of  Ham 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

1   Glass   of  Madeira  or  Sherry   Wine. 

Croutons   to   Garnish. 

Prepare  the  Ducks  exactly  as  in  the  re- 
cipe for  "Stewed  Ducks  With  Turnips," 
omitting  the  turnips.  Add  ten  minutes 
before  serving,  twelve  small  Godiveau 
Quenelles  (see  recipe)  and  the  wine.  Gar- 
nish the  dish  with  Croutons  (see  recipe) 
and  twelve  nicely-cooked  mushrooms,  cut 
in  two.     Send   to  the  table  hot. 

Cold    WUd    Duck. 

Canards   Sauvages  Froid. 

Remains  of  Cold  Duck. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2  Tumbler  of  Currant  Jelly. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of   Port   Wine. 

Cut  the  cold  "Wild  Duck  nicely  in  thick 
slices,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  as 
follows:  Take  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, one-half  tumbler  of  Currant  Jelly, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  Port 
wine.  "Warm  the  butter  in  the  saucepan, 
add  the  wine  and  .ielly,  thoroughly  blend- 
ed; mix  well,  and  serve  with  the  slices 
of  cold  duck.  The  duck  may  also  be 
served  very  deliciously  with  Currant  Jelly 
alone,   and   buttered   toast. 

Teal  Duck. 

Sarcelle. 
The  Teal  Duck  is  the  smallest  and  most 
delicate  of  the  wild  ducks.  It  is  prepared 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  Mallard,  pref- 
erence, however,  being  always  gIvSn  to 
roasting  and  broiling,  on  account  of  its 
size.  The  Teal  Duck  is  always  broiled 
whole,  without  splitting  on  the  back. 


88 


Teal    Ducks   Boasted. 

Sarcelles   Roties. 

3  Pairs  of  Teal  Ducks. 

6   Thin    Strips   of   Bacon. 

6   Truffles.     1  Tablespoonful   of  Butter. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Water. 

6   Slices   of  Toast. 

Currant    Jelly. 

Clean  the  duck  nicely  and  put  one 
truffle  and  a  lump  of  butter  about  the 
size  of  a  peanut,  with  salt  and  pepper, 
on  the  inside.  Rub  well  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  butter  melted.  Take 
a  thin  strip  of  bacon  and  bind  it  around 
the  body  of  the  duck,  fastening  .with  a 
skewer.  Place  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  the  roasting  pan,  and  pour  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water  in  it,  dropping 
slightly  over  each  bird.  Set  in  a  quick 
oven  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes,  or 
until  done.  The  bird  should  always  bo 
served  underdone.  Have  ready  a  hot 
dish,  garnished  with  parsley,  and  a  slice 
of  toast  buttered  for  each  bird.  Place 
the  birds  on  them,  sprinkle  over  chopped 
parsley,  and  take  the  juice  in  which  the 
birds  have  been  roasted,  pour  a  little 
over  each  bird,  so  that  it  sinks  down 
into  the  toast,  and  squeeze  a  little  lemon 
juice  over  each,  and  serve  hot. 

The  truffle  may  be  omitted,  but  it  lo 
considered  very  elegant.  The  bird  is  just 
as  good  without,  however,  and  it  is 
within  the  reach  of  the  poorest,  simply 
for  the  hunting.  Serve  with  Currant 
Jelly. 

Teal  Duck  Broiled. 

Sarcelle    Grlllee. 

3    Pairs    of    Teal    Ducks. 

6  Strips  of  Bacon. 

Melted    Butter.     Chopped    Parsley. 

Olives   and    Slices   of   Lemon   to   Garnish, 

6  Slices  of  Toast. 

Clean  and  prepare  the  duck  in  exactly 
the  same  manner  as  for  roasting,  bindinfr 
with  the  strip  of  bacon.  Place  on  a 
broiler,  turning  frequently,  and  let  it 
broil  for  about  thirty  minutes,  very 
slowly.  Serve  with  melted  butter  and 
chopped  parsley  spread  over,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  squeezed  in.  Garnish 
the  dish  nicely  with  sprigs  of  parsley 
slices  of  lemon  and  olives.  Serve  witli 
Currant   Jelly. 

Teal  Duck  a  la  Bigrarade. 

Sarcelle  a.  la  Bigarade. 

3    Pairs    of   Teal    Ducks. 

1    Bigarade    or    Sour    Orange. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A  Sauce  a  I'Bspagnole. 

Clean  the  ducks  and  take  the  liver^ 
and  fry  them  in  a  little  melted  butter. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
slight  pinch  of  ground  allspice  and  cloves 
and  the  zest  of  a  "bigarade,"  or  sour 
orange.  If  the  orange  is  not  availabl«, 
take  the  zest  of  a  lemon.  The  zest  is  the 
skin  of  the  orange  or  lemon,  scraped  off 
without  touching  the  inner  pulp,  or  white 
skin.  Place  this  in  the  interior  of  the 
ducks  (you  must  have  the  boiled  livers 
of  five  or  six  for  the  garnishment  of  two 
ducks),  and  then  rub  the  outside  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Bind  with  a'  strip 
of  bacon  and  place  on  the  broiler.  In 
about  thirty  minutes  It  will  he  done. 
Cook  over  a  slow  fire,  turning  frequent- 
ly. In  the  meantime  prepare  a  "Sauce  a 
I'Espagnole,"    and    as    soon    n<!    the    birds 


are  done  pour  off  from  the  broiler  all 
the  juice  that  has  fallen,  and  put  this 
into  the  sauce,  with  the  juice  of  two 
sour  oranges  or  citrons.  Let  it  waria 
without  boiling,  pour  over  the  birds, 
which  you  have  placed  on  buttered  toast, 
and  serve  hot.  This  is  an  ancient  Creole 
dish,  almost  lost  in  our  day,  but  which 
deserves   to    be   resurrected. 

Stewed    Babbit. 

Salmi   de    Lapins. 

A    Pair    of    Rabbits. 

2    Onions.     1    Square    Inch    of    Ham. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

I    Clove    of    Garlic,    Chopped   Very   Fine. 

1   Herb    Bouquet,    Chopped    Fine. 

1  Glass  of  Claret.    1  Cup  of  Water. 

1  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

Stewed  rabbit  is  a  great  dish  among 
the  Creoles.  They  say  that  this  is  the 
only  T)jay  to  cook  a  rabbit.  Proceed  as 
follows: 

Skin  and  clean  the  rabbit.  Wash  well 
and  cut  into  pieces  at  the  joints,  and  rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  two 
onions  very  fine,  and  put  them  In  tho 
stewpan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Let  them  brown  slightly:  then 
add  the  rabbit.  Let  it  brown  slightly, 
and  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flouir, 
and  let  this  brown  a  little.  Chop  the 
square  inch  of  ham  very  fine,  mincing 
it,  and  add.  Then  add  the  clove  of  gar- 
lic, and  two  sprigs  each  of  thyme  and 
parsley  and  a  bay  leaf,  minced  fine.  Let 
this  brcwn  nicely,  and  pour  over  one 
glass  of  good  Claret.  Let  this  cook  for 
ten  minutes,  stirring  it  constantly,  so 
that  it  will  not  burn,  and  then  add  one 
cup  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well,  season 
again  to  taste,  and  let  It  boil  for  thirty 
minutes,  and  serve  hot.  Green  peas  or 
potatoes,  boiled  or  mashed,  make  a  nice 
entree  for  this  dish. 

Babbit,    Hunters'    Style 

Lapin  a  la  Chasseur. 

A    Pair    of    Rabbits. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Onion.     1  Slice  of  Ham. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1    Clove    of    Garlic.     2   Sprigs    of    Thyme. 

2    Bay    Leaves. 

1-2    Box    of    Mushrooms.     The   Zest   of  a 

Lemon. 

1-2  Bottle  of  Claret  "Wine. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

Croutons   to    Garnish. 

Prepare  the  rabbit;  clean  and  draw, 
and  cut  into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter  into  the  saucepan  with 
the  rabbit  and  let  it  brown  slowly.  When 
nearly  brown,  add  the  onion,  chopped 
tine,  and  let  this  brown  slightly.  Then 
add  the  ham,  minced  very  fine,  and  the 
clove  and  garlic  and  bay  leaves  and 
thyme,  minced  very  fine.  Stir  with  the 
rabbit,  and  let  these  brown  for  about 
two  minutes;  then  add  a  tablespoon^l^ 
of  flour  and  brown  for  a  tew  minutes; 
add  a  half  bottle  of  Claret  wine  and 
let  all  simmer  for  five  minutes;  then 
add  a  quart  of  consomme  or  water,  and 
let  all  cook  for  about  one  hour.  Season 
according  to  taste.  Add  a  half  can  of 
mushrooms,  chopped  fine,  and  the  zest 
of  a  lemon,  and  again  season  to  taste. 
Let  all  cook  for  a  half  hour  longer  and 
serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  Croutons  fried 
in   butter. 


89 


Babbit    en    Matelote. 

Lapin    en    Matelote. 

A  Pair  of  Rabbits. 

2   Tablespoonfuls    of   Lard   or   Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

6  Fresh,  Large  Tomatoes,  or  a  Half  Can. 

1    Large    Onion,    Choooed    Fine. 
3    Sprigs    Each    of    Thvme.    Sweet    Mar- 
joram, Parsley  and  Bay  Leaf. 
1  Glass  of  Good  Claret,  or  the  Juice  of  3 
Lemon. 
1  Quart  of  Water  or  Consomme. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 

Skin,  clean,  wash  and  cut  the  rabbit 
into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Put  the  lard 
or  butter  into  a  deep  stewpan  or  kettle. 
When  hot,  add  gradually  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour,  stirring  constantly  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Throw  in  about  ten  or 
twelve  well-mashed  allspice,  and  three 
sprigs  each  of  chopped  thyme,  parsley 
bay  leaf  and  sweet  marjoram,  one  clove 
of  garlic,  and  one  large  onion,  chopped 
very  fine.  Add  six  fresh  large  tomatoes, 
chopped  fine,  or  one-half  can  of  toma- 
toes. Pour  in  one  glass  of  good  claret 
add  about  one  quart  of  water,  and  let 
it  boil  well.  Then  add  salt  and  Cayenne 
to  taste,  and,  when  this  has  boiled  about 
five  minutes,  add  the  rabbit,  putting  in 
piece  by  piece.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  let  all  boil  about  ten  minutes.  Serve 
with  French  Fried  Potatoes,  Mashed  Po- 
tatoes   or  Potato  Croquettes. 

HABE. 

Lievre. 

The  hare  and  the  rabbit  are  very  much 
alike,  the  closest  relationship  existing 
between  the  two.  The  principal  differ- 
ence is  that  the  rabbit  is  smaller  in  size 
than  the  hare,  and  its  ears  and  legs  are 
shorter. 

The  hare  m.ay  be  cooked  in  almost  any 
manner  in  which  rabbits  are  served. 
There  are,  however,  some  special  methods 
in  vogue  among  the  Creoles  which  are 
here  appended.  In  preparing  the  hare 
for  roasting,  it  should  be  first  skinned., 
and  then  washed  well  in  cold  water  and 
rinsed  thoroughly  in  tepid  water.  If  the 
hare  seems  a  little  musty  from  being 
emptied  before  being  hung  up,  rub  the 
insides  well  with  vinegar  and  again  wash 
thoroughly'  in  warm  water.  Prepare  for 
cooking  as  you  would  a  rabbit,  wipe  well 
with  a  soft  towel,  dress  nicely,  stew  the 
animal  up  and  truss  it,  and  allow  it  to 
roast  from  three-quarters  of  an  "hour  to 
one  hour,  according  to  size.  Baste  oc- 
casionally with  butter,  just  before  serv- 
ing. Of  late  the  hare  is  much  affected 
by  epicures.  Many  consider  the  meat  far 
more  tender  and  of  more  delicate  flavor 
than  the  rabbit.  It  is  generally  served 
with  Currant  Jelly. 

Hare,    Boasted    and     Stuffed. 

Lievre  Roti. 

2  Fine   Hares      3    Onions. 

1    Carrot.     3    Apples. 

2  Ounces  of  Sausage  Meat. 

6    Mushrooms.     1    Lemon. 

1    Sprig    of   Thyme.     1    Bay    Leaf. 

2  Cloves.    3  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1  Glass  of  "White  Wine  or  Cider. 

1   Pint   of  Consomme. 

ITablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Slices  of  Bacon. 

1-2  Tablespoonful   of  Pepper. 

1-2  Tablespoonful  of  Salt. 

Croutons. 


Select  two  fine  Hares  and  cut  them 
in  half.  Separate  the  hindquarters  from 
the  fore  and  then  bone  them  down  to 
the  legs.  Do  not  bone  the  legs.  Place 
the  Hares  in  an  earthen  dish  that  is 
quite  deep,  then  make  a  marinade  as 
follows:  Pour  in  a  glassful  of  White 
wine,  add  a  small  lemon  nicely  sliced, 
and  a  small  onion  minced  fine,  one  sprig 
of  thyme  and  one  bay  leaf,  all  minced 
very  fine.  Season  this  preparation  w^ith 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful of  pepper  and  two  mashed 
cloves.  Take  the  saddles  of  the 
Hares  and  roll  them  well  in  this,  and 
let  the  entire  Hares  steep  well  in  the 
marinade  for  twelve  hours. 

Chop  an  onion  very  fine  and  put  it  in 
a  .saucepan  on  the  stove,  and,  when  well 
heated,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, cook  for  one  minute,  and  then  add 
two  ounces  of  fine  chaurice  (sausage) 
(see  recipe),  chopped  very  fine;  six  mush- 
rooms, chopped  very  fine;  a  teaspoonful 
of  minced  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  pepper; 
mix  well  and  let  all  cook  for  about  five 
minutes.  Take  three  fine  apples  and  cut 
them  fine,  carefully  removing  the  cores, 
place  them  in  a  clean  saucepan  on  the 
fire,  with  a  half  glassful  of  good  White 
wine  or  the  best  Cider.  Let  this  boil 
about  five  minutes,  and  then  add  the 
stuffing  and  mix  well  together.  Then 
set  the  mixture  to  cool.  Take  the  Hares 
^'rom  the  marinade  and  stuff  the  boned 
saddles  very  carefully  and  evenly,  and 
give  a  nice  round,  even  shape;  tie  them 
to  keep  them  firm;  then  place  a  fine 
slice  of  bacon  over  each  saddle,  tying 
firmly.  Cut  up  a  carrot  and  onion  into 
fine  slices  and  place  in  the  bottom  of 
the  roasting  pan;  lay  the  Hares  over 
these  and  pour  one'  pint  of  consomme 
over  the  Hares.  Place  them  in  a  hot 
oven  and  roast  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  basting  frequently  with  their  own 
gravy.  Then  remove  from  the  oven  and 
untie.  Place  the  Hares  on  a  hot  dish 
nicely  decorated  with  dice-shaped  Crou- 
tons, and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  Hares 
and  serve  very  hot. 

Hare,   Creole   Style. 

Civet    de   Lievre   a   la  Creole. 
1   Fine,   Tender  Hare. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Flour. 
1    Large    Onion.     1    Dozen    Small    Onions. 
3  Tomatoes. 
1  Ounce   of  Minced  Ham. 
2  Sprigs  of  Thyme.     2  Bay  Leaves. 
1-2  Glass  of  White  Wine. 
1-2  Glass  of  Red  Wine. 
1    1-2    Teaspoonfuls    of    Salt 
1 1-2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Pepper. 
1    Pint    of    Consomme    or   "Water. 
Skin,  clean,  draw  and  thoroughl"  wash 
a    fine,    tender  Hare.     Preserve    the   liver 
and,  heart.     Cut  the  Hare   into   pieces  at 
the  joints.     Make   a  marinade   by   taking 
a    half    glass    of    White    wine,    one    largo 
finely-sliced    onion,    the    thyme    and   bay 
leaves    (finely    minced),    and    place    in    a 
stone    jar.  -Add    a    half    teaspoonful    of 
grated    nutmeg    and    a    tablespoonfhl    of 
salt,  and  place  in  this  mixture  the  cut-up 
Hare,    and    let    all    steep    for    six    hour:?. 
Then   lift  the   pieces   out  carefully;    have 
ready    a    saucepan    into    which    you    will 
have  placed  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and 
add  twelve  small  onions,   glazed    (see  re- 
cipe);   one    ounce    of   ham,    minced    fine: 
put    the    Hare    into    the    pan    and    let    all 
brown     nicely     for     about    ten     minutes. 
Then    add    the   flour,    finely   rubbed,    stir 
well   and   let   brown.     Add   the   tomatoes, 


90 


peeled  and  sliced  fine;  let  all  brown  ten 
minutes  longer,  and  add  the  Red  wine 
and  the  consomnie  or  water.  Stir  till  il 
begins  to  boil;  then  season  according  to 
taste,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  all 
cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and 
add  the  heart  and  liver,  which  you  will 
have  finely  chopped  and  thoroughly 
mixed  together.  Let  all  cook  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  longer  and  serve  with 
toasted  Croutons. 

Sewed  Hare   With   Onions 

Glbelotte  de  Lievre. 

1  Fine  Hare. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1    Tablespoonful    of   Flour. 

1  Large    Onion.     1    Dozen   Small    Onions. 

1  Ounce  of  Ham. 
2  Sprigs  of  Thyme.     2  Bay   Leaves. 

1  Glass    of    White    Wine. 
1-2  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

1  Pint  of  Consomme  or  Water. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Prepare  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
above  indicated,  only  do  not  use  the  to- 
matoes or  Red  wine;  use  instead  of  the 
Claret  one  pint  of  broth  or  consomme, 
and  add  a  half  can  of  mushrooms  about 
ten  minutes  before  serving. 

Filet   of   Hare    Sance   Poivrade. 

Filet   de   Lievre,   Sauce  Poivrade. 

2  Fine   Hares.    2   Onions. 

2  Carrots.     A  Half  Glass  of  WTiite  Wine. 
1    Tablespoonful    of    Lard    or   Butter. 

1  Cup  of  Broth  or  Water. 
Sauce  a  la  Poivrade. 

Take  two  fine  Hares,  clean  neatly  and 
cut  the  filets  neatly  from  the  rack.  Lard 
the  surface  carefully  with  fine  needles. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make 
a  marinade  with  half  a  glass  of  White 
wine,  one  onion  and  one  carrot,  minced 
very  fine.  Let  all  steep  together  for  two 
hours;  then  place  the  butter  or  lard  in 
a  baking  dish,  with  an  onion  and  carrot, 
sliced  fine.  Put  the  filets  of  Hare  over 
this  and  set  in  the  oven  and  let  it  cook 
for  a  half  hour.  Baste  frequently  with 
the  Hares'  own  juices.  Place  the  filets 
on    a    hot    dish,    add    a    tablespoonful    of 


broth  to  the  gravy  in  which  the  Hares 
were  cooked;  let  all  come  to  a  boil  on 
the  stove;  strain  the  gravy  and  pour 
over  the  filets.  Bring  to  the  table  hot 
and  serve  w\th  *»-  Sauce  a  la  Poivrade. 

Stewed    Squftrrel. 

Salmi    d'Ecureuil. 

A   Pair    of    Squirrels. 

2  Onions.     1  Square  Inch  of  Ham. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

1   Herb   Bouquet,    Chopped    Fine. 

1   Glass   of   Claret.    1   Cup   of   Water. 

1  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

Skin  and  clean  the  Squirrels;  wash  weil 
and  cut  into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Chop 
two  onions  very  fine  and  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Let  them  brown  slightly;  then 
add  the  Squirrel.  Let  it  brown  slightly, 
and  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  let  this  brown  a  little.  Chop  the 
square-inch  of  ham  very  fine,  mincing 
it,  and  add.  Then  add  the  clove  of  gar- 
lic, and  two  sprigs  each  of  thyme  and 
parsley  and  a  bay  leaf,  minced  fine.  Let 
this  brown  nicely,  and  pour  over  one 
glass  of  good  Claret.  Let  this  cook  for 
ten  minutes,  stirring  it  constantly,  so 
that  it  w^ill  not  bum,  and  then  add  one 
cup  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well,  season 
again  to  taste  and  let  it  boil  for  thirty 
minutes  and  serve  hot.  This  dish  will 
be  improved  beyond  estimation  if  a  can 
of  mushrooms  is  added  immediately  after 
adding  the  water.  But  it  Is  very  nice 
without  the  mushrooms,     serve  very  hot. 

Squirrel,    Hunters'    Style. 

Ecureuil    a,   la    Chasseur. 

Procure  two  fine  Squirrels,  and  prepare 
in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  in  the  re- 
cipe "Rabbit,  Hunters'  Style."  (See  re- 
cipe.) 

Squirrel    en    Matelote. 

Ecureuil  en   Matelote. 

Procure  two  fine  Squirrels,  and  pre- 
pare in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  in 
the  recipe  for  "Rabbit  en  Matelote."  (See 
recipe.) 


CHAPTER  XIX. 
BIBDS. 

Des  Ciseaux. 


As  already  mentioned,  Louisiana  points 
w^ith  pride  to  the  quality  and  variety 
of  the  Birds  found  in  her  forests.  Fine 
game  birds  are  always  heavy  for  their 
size;  the  flesh  of  the  breas*,  is  plump 
and  firm,  and  the  skin  clear.  To  be  sure 
that  the  bird  is  fresh  if  purchased  from 
dealers,  pluck  off  a  few  feathers  from 
the  inside  of  the  legs  and  around  the 
vent;  in  a  freshly-killed  bird  the  flesh 
■will  be  fat  and  fresh-colored ;  if  the 
game  has  been  hung  a  long  time  the 
flesh  will  be  dark  and  dis?olored.  These 
are  infallible  guides  in  selecting  game 
birds.  In  serving  birds,  remember  that 
young  Green  Peas,  or  "Petits  Pois  Fran- 
cais,"  as  they  are  generally  called,  are 
nice  entree  for  all  birds.  The  following 
are  the  recognized  Creole  rules  and  meth- 
ods of  preparing  our  delightful  "Fanc> 
Game": 

Invariable  Rule  for  Broiling:   Birds. 
Ciseaux  Grillees. 

Prepare  the  birds  by  hand  picking.  If 
of  the  very  small  variety,  such  as  gras- 
sets.  reed  birds,  robins,  etc.,  do  not^ick 


out  the  entrails,  for  there  will  be  little 
left  of  the  bird  but  a  charred  mass.  Rub 
the  bird  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
then  with  melted  butter.  Tie  a  strip  of 
very  finely-sliced  bacon  around  the  body 
of  the  bird,  joining  with  a  skewer,  and 
place  on  a  broiler  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
let  it  cook  for  ten,  fifteen  or  twenty 
or  even  thirty  minutes,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  bird.  Turn  frequently,  so  that 
it  may  cook  well  without  burning.  When 
done,  take  off  the  broiler.  Have  ready 
always  buttered  French  toasts,  and  place 
the  birds  upon  them,  allowing  a  slice  of 
toast  for  each  bird.  Trim  away  the 
rough  edges  of  the  toast.  It  is  a  matter 
of  taste  whether  the  strip  of  bacon  be 
removed  or  not.  But  in  the  most  ex- 
clusive homes  of  Creole  New  Orleans  It 
is  retained,  being  removed  at  the  table 
by  the  person  to  whom  it  is  served,  the 
hot  bacon  keeping  the  bird  hot,  juicy  and 
tender.  Always  pour  over  the  bird  a  little 
of  the  juice  that  has  run  from  it  in 
broiling,  and  let  it  soak  down  into  the 
toast.  Pour  over  a  little  melted  butter 
and  chopped  parsley,  and  lemon  juice  if 


91 


you  like.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and 
parsley  sprigs,  and  bring  to  the  table 
hot. 

Invariable  Rule  for  Boasting:  Birds. 

Oiseaux  Rotis. 
Prepare  the  birds  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  for  broiling,  cleaning  oul  tlie 
entrails  of  the  larger  birds,  and  leaving 
the  small  ones  untouched,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  Papabotte,  the  gizzards  of 
which  must  never  be  eaten,  for  the  Papa- 
botte is  a  very  rich  bird.  Rub  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  melted  butter.  In  the 
larger  birds,  if  you  can  afford  it,  put  a 
truffle  or  two,  for  stuffing,  and  in  all 
put  a  little  lump  of  butter  and  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  a  pinch  of  chopped 
thyme,  parsley  and  bay  leaf,  and  a  small 
pinch  of  the  four  spices,  but  very,  very 
small  indeed.  Bind  with  strips  of  bacon, 
and  place  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Let  them  bake  or 
roast  thirty  minutes  or  less,  according  to 
size,  and  serve  always  on  buttered 
French  toast,  over  which  you  will  pour, 
when  you  have  placed  the  bird  upon  it 
a  bit  of  the  gravy  made  when  cooking. 
Prepare  this  gravy  by  simply  adding  a 
tablespoonful  of  water,  letting  it  cook 
"two  minutes;  then  strain;  let  it  cook 
for  two  minutes  more,  and  pour  upon  the 
breast  of  the  bird,  so  that  it  will  soak 
down  into  the  toast.  Garnish  nicely  with 
sprigs  of  parsley  and  lemon,  and  serve 
hot. 

Bear  in  mind  that  all  large  game  should 
be  roasted;  the  small  may  be  roasted  or 
broiled,  according  to  taste. 

PAPABOTTE, 

The  Papabotte  is  one  of  our  most 
recherche  and  distinctive  birds.  The  Pa- 
pabotte is  a  summer  bird,  and  is  with 
us  from  the  latter  part  of  the  month  of 
June  to  September.  The  game  laws  are 
very  strict,  and  it  is  not  allowed  to  be 
killed  out  of  season.  The  first  Papa- 
bottes  in  the  market,  like  the  first  Pom- 
pano,  are  much  sought  after.  It  is  a  rich 
bird,  and  is  the  joy  of  the  ancient  Creole 
gourmets.  "Papabotte  a  la  Creole!" — 
"Ah!"  they  will  tell  you,  "you  have  a 
dish  that  is  enough  to  make  a  dead  man 
turn  alive!"  Thus  prepared,  the  dish  is 
sometimes  called  "a  la  Francais-Creole,'' 
not  because  the  bird  has  been  ever  cooked 
by  the  French  in  their  own  domains,  for 
Is  is  unknown  in  French  forests,  but  be 
cause  the  Creoles,  in  cooking  it  to  the 
best  advantage,  adopt  the  French  dress 
ing,  which  will  be  explained  in  stuffing 
the  bird,  according  to  the  subjoined  dis- 
tinctive Creole  recipe: 

Papabotte  u,  la  Creole. 

Papabotte   a   la   Creole. 

6  Papabottes.     6  Truffles. 
6  Thin  Slices  of  Bacon.     6  Slices  of  Toast. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water. 
The   Zest    of    a    Lemon.     The 'Juice    of    1 

Lemon. 
Olives  and  Sprigs  of  Parsley  to  GarrSish. 
Clean  the  Papabotte  as  you  would  a 
chicken,  and  take  out  the  entrails.  Sep- 
arate the  gizzards,  and  be  sure  to  throw 
them  away,  retaining  all  the  rest  of  the 
entrails  for  stuffing.  Chop  the  remain- 
ing entrails  very  fine,  and  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  them  iri  about 
a  quarter  of  a  spoon  of  butter.  In  the 
meantime  take  the  Papabotte  and  rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  about  the  size  'bt  a 
peanut,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  in 
the  Papabotte.     Place  in  the  Interior  one 


truffle.  Bind  a  strip  of  thin  bacon  around 
the  body.  Place  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter in  a  baking  dish,  and  set  the  Papa- 
botte in  it,  and  add  about  two  tfible- 
spoonfuls  of  water.  Set  the  dish  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  let  the  birds  roast  thirty 
minutes,  turning  over  once,  so  that  they 
may  be  perfectly  done.  When  the  en- 
trails are  done,  add  two  inches  of  the 
zest  of  the  lemon  and  a  little  juice.  Take 
slices  of  toast,  allowing  one  slice  for  each 
bird,  and  spread  over  each  a  coating  of 
the  entrails,  or  farcie.  Place  a  bird  on 
each  slice  of  toast,  after  taking  off  tho 
binding  of  bacon,  or  leaving  it  on,  ac 
cording  to  taste.  Add  one  spoon  of  water 
to  the  gravy  in  which  the  Papabottes 
have  been  cooking,  strain  it,  then  warm 
for  two  minutes,  and  pour  hot  on  top 
of  the  breast  of  the  bird,  allowing  it  to 
melt  down  into  the  French  toasts.  Gar- 
nish the  dish  nicely  with  sprigs  of  pars 
ley  and  olives,  and  serve  hot. 

Broiled    Papabotte. 

Papabotte    Grille. 

6  Papabottes.     6  Fine  Strips  of  Bacon. 

6   Slices   of   Buttered   French   Toast. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Melted    Butter.. 

Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 
Sliced  Lemon  and  Parsley  Sprigs  t6  Gar- 
nish. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  the  Papabotte  well,  removing 
the  entrails,  and  be  particularly  careful 
to  throw  away  the  gizzard.  Rub  the 
birds  with  salt  and  pepper  and  then  with 
melted  butter.  Tie  a  strip  of  very  finely- 
sliced  bacon  around  the  body  of  each 
bird,  joining  the  bacon  with  a  skewer, 
and  place  the  birds  on  a  broiler  over  a 
slow  fire  and  let  them  cook  fifteen, 
twenty  or  even  thirty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  birds.  Turn  fre 
quently,  so  that  they  may  broil  without 
burning.  Wlien  done,  take  off  the  broil- 
er; have  ready  the  slices  of  buttered 
French  toast,  and  place  a  bird  upon  each 
slice.  Trim  away  the  rough  edges  of  the 
toast.  Pour  over  the  bir^s  a  little  of  tht 
juice  that  has  run  from  them  in  broil  - 
ing,  and  let  this  soak  down  into  the  toast. 
Pour  over  a  little  melted  butter  and 
chopped  parsley,  and  add  a  little  lemon 
jnice,  if  desired.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
Icinon  and  parsley  sprigs  and  bring  to 
the   table    hot. 

Boast   Papabotte. 

Papabotte  Roti. 

6  Papabottes.    6  Truffles   (if  desired). 

3  Sprigs  of  Chopped  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1   Bay    Leaf,   Minced. 

6    Thin    Strips   of   Bacon. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Water. 

6  Slices  of  French  Toast. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

Sprigs    of    Parsley    and    Thin    Slices    of 

Lemon  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  the  Papabottes  as  indicated  in 
the  above  recipe.  Rub  with  salt  and  pep 
per  and  melted  butter;  put  a  truffle  'or 
two  into  each  Papabotte,  if  you  can  af- 
ford it,  and  put  in  each  bird  a  little 
lump  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  pea- 
nut, a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  a 
pinch  of  chopped  thyme  and  parsley  and 
bay  leaf.  Bind  the  birds  with  the  strips 
of'bacon  and  place  in  a  baking  pan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Let  them  bake 
or  roast  for  thirty  minutes  or  less,  ac- 
cording to  size.  When  done,  place  each 
bird  on  a  slice  of  buttered  French  toast, 
and,  when  you  have  placed  the  bird  thus. 


92 


pour  over  a  bit  of  the  gravy  which  you 
will  have  made  by  adding  to  the  birds 
while  cooking,  and  Just  four  minutes 
before  serving  add  a  lablespoonful  of 
water,  letting  It  cook  for  two  minutes; 
then  strain  this  gravy,  and  let  It  cook 
two  minutes  more.  Pour  a  little  over 
the  breast  of  each  bird,  so  that  it  will 
Boak  down  into  the  toast.  Garnish  nicely 
with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  sliced  lemon 
and  serve  hot. 

PABXBIDGES. 
Perdreaux. 

The  Partridge  may  be  roasted  or 
broiled;  being  a  large  bird,  if  roasted 
It  may  be  stuffed  with  truffles  or  any 
stuffing,  such  as  oysters  or  egg,  an! 
served  on  toast,  as  indicated  in  the  re- 
cipes for  broiling  and  roasting  birds. 

The  term  "Perdreaux"  is  applied  by  the 
French  to  young  Partridges,  and  "Per- 
drix"  to  the  older  birds.  In  the  young 
birds  the  tips  of  the  long  wing  feathers 
are  pointed;  in  the  old  birds  the  tips  of 
the  wing  feathers  are  round. 

Boast   Fartridgre. 

Perdreaux    Rotis,    ou    Perdreaux    Pidiues 
Sur   Canapes. 

6  Fine  Young  Partridges. 

6  Thin  Slices  of  Bacon. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 

2  Sprigs  of  Parsley.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Toasted    Bread. 

Parsley  or  Watercress  to  Garnish. 

Clean,  singe  and  draw  and  wipe  the 
birds  neatly;  rub  each  bird  well  witii 
salt  and  pepper,  and  then  with  melted 
butter.  If  it  can  be  afforded,  stuff  the 
bird  with  truffles,  placing  one  or  two 
in  each  bird,  and  place  within  the  bird 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  a  lump  of 
butter  about  the  size  of  a  peanut,  and  a 
pinch  of  chopped  thyme,  parsley  and  bay 
leaf,  all  minced  very  fine.  Bind  the  birds 
with  thin  strips  of  bacon,  and  fasten 
each  strip  with  .a  skewer.  Put  the  Part- 
ridges in  a  baking  pan  in  a  brisk  oven, 
and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
one  of  water.  Let  them  bake  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  according 
to  size,  basting  occasionally  with  their 
own  juice.  When  done,  have  ready  the 
buttered  French  toast;  place  the  birds 
upon  the  toast  and  pour  over  a  bit  of 
the  gravy  made  when  cookinp;.  Prepare 
this  gravy  by  adding  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water  to  the  Partridge  juice  after  re- 
moving the  birds;  let  it  cook  for  two 
minutes,  and  then  strain  and  let  it  cook 
two  minutes  more.  Pour  upon  the  breast 
of  the  birds,  so  that  it  will  soak  into  the 
toast.  Garnish  the  dish  nicely  with 
sprigs  of  parsley  or  watercress  and  servo 
hot. 

Boast    Partridge,    Bread    Sance. 

Perdreaux   Rotis,   Sauce   au    Pain. 

3  Pine  Young  Partridges. 

Slice  of  Toast  Bread 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Fresh  Bread  Crumbs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Cold  Water. 
1-2  Cup  of  Cream  or  Milk. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt.  6  White  Peppers. 
Prepare  the  Partridges  and  roast  ac- 
cording to  reoine  for  "Roast  Partridge." 
(See  recipe.)  Make  a  bread  sauce  as 
follows:  Crumble  one  and  a  half  ounces 
of  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  half  cup  of  cold  water; 
add,  when  the  water  heats,  a  tablespoon- 


ful of  butter,  six  whole  white  peppers  and 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cook  for  five 
minutes;  then  add  a  half  cup  of  rich- 
milk  or  cream.  Let  the  whole  cook  five 
minutes  more.  Remove  the  white  pep- 
pers. Place  the  Partridges  on  the  toasted 
bread,  and  garnish  the  dish  nicely  with 
parsley  sprigs  or  watercress.  Send  to 
the  table  hot  with  the  sauce  in  a  separate 
dish.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  Part- 
ridges when   serving. 

Broiled   Partridses. 

Perdreaux  Grilles, 

3  Fine  Young  Partridges. 
6   Slices  of  French   Toast 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
Salt   and   Pepper  to   Taste. 
The  Juice  of  a  Lemon. 
Parsley  Sprigs  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Gar- 
nish. 

Prepare  the  birds  as  in  the  above  re- 
cipe. Cut  them  in  two  by  splitting  down 
the  back,  as  in  broiling  a  chicken.  Ruo 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  melted  butter. 
Place  on  a  broiler  and  let  them  broil 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  allowing 
from  seven  to  ten  minutes,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  bird,  to  either  side  during 
the  broiling  process.  Turn  frequently  to 
avoid  burning.  Have  ready  the  buttered 
French  toast;  place  the  birds  upon  it  and 
pour  over  a  little  of  the  juice  that  ran 
from  the  bird  while  broiling.  Let  it  soak 
down  in  the  bread;  pour  over  melted  but- 
ter and  chopped  parsley,  and  add  a  little 
lemon  juice,  if  desired.  Garnish  the  di^ 
nicely  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or  water 
cress  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Partridge     With     Soar     Orange     Sance. 

Perdreaux    aux    Bigarades. 

3  Fine  Partridges. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

The  Juice   of  a  Sour  Orange. 

Toasted  Croutons. 

Watercress  or  Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Broil  the  Partridges  according  to  recipe 
for  "Broiled  Partridge."  (See  recipe.) 
Prepare  a  "Drawn  Butter  Sauce"  (see  re- 
cipe), and  add  the  juice  and  zest  of  a 
sour  orange.  Pour  over  the  birds  and  let 
it  soak  down  into  the  toast,  oerve  hot, 
with   garnishes   of  parsley  or  watercress. 

Partridges    Hnnters'    Style. 

Perdrix    Sautees    a    la    Chasseur. 

3  Fine  Partridges. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 
1  Finely  Chopped  Onion.  12  Whole  Mush- 
rooms. 
2  Sprigs' Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 
1    Bay   Leaf.     Salt  and   Pepper   to   Taste. 
1-2  Glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  Wine. 
1    Cup    of    Water    or    Consomme. 
Croutons. 

The  older  birds  are  used  for  stewing 
purposes.  Clean  the  Partridges;  singe, 
draw  and  wipe  well.  Cut  up  the  birds  as 
you  would  a  young  chicken.  Rub  well 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  in  a 
stewpan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter. After  letting  them  brown  well  on 
either  side,  about  three  minutes,  add 
the  finely-chopped  onion  and  carrot,  and 
the  minced  herbs.  Let  these  brown  tor 
two  minutes,  and  add  the  flour  and  let 
all  brown  nicely.  Then  add  a  cup  of 
water  or  consomme  and  the  wine  and  the 
chopped  mushrooms  Cover  closely  and 
cook  tor  fifteen  minutes  and  then  serve, 
using  toasted  Croutons  as  garnish. 


93 


Partridge,    Creole    Style. 

Perdrix  Sautees  a  la  Creole. 

3  Fine  Parti'idges. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

3  Large  Tomatoes. 

2  Sprigs  Bach  of  Tliyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

1-2  Glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  Wine. 

1  Cup  of  Water  or  Consomme. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Croutons  to  Garnish. 

Clean  the  Partridges;  singe,  draw  and 
wipe  well.  Cut  up  the  birds  as  for 
Fricasseed  Chicken.  Rub  well  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  place  in  a  stewpan,  and 
let  them  brown  well  on  either  side.  Then 
add  the  finely-chopped  onion  and  tne 
herbs,  minced  very  fine.  Let  these  brown 
and  add  the  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Let 
brown  nicely,  and  add  the  chopped  toma- 
toes and  their  juice;  cover  and  let  sim- 
mer about  five  minutes,  and  then  add  the 
wine  and  a  cup  of  water  or  consomme. 
Cover  closely  and  let  all  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  and  serve  hot,  using  toasted 
Croutons  for  a  garnish. 

Partridge   a  la   Flnanclere. 

Perdreaux   a  la   Financiere. 

3  Fine  Toung  Partridges. 

1   Carrot.    1  Onion.    1   Bay   Leaf. 

2   Sprigs   of  Thyme.    1   Tablespoonful   of 

Salt. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Pepper. 

A  Dash  of  Cayenne.     2  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1-2  Pint  of  Consomme  or  Water. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1   Tablespoonful    of    Flour.    3   Truffles. 

2    Dozen    Stoned    Olives. 

3  Blanched  Chicken  Livers. 

1  Dozen  Mushrooms. 

1  Dozen  Quenelles  of  Veal  or  Chicken. 

1  Pint  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  Wine. 
Clean  the  partridges  according  to  the 
recipe  given.  Singe,  draw,  wipe  well  and 
then  truss  neatly.  Rub  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Take  a  piece  of  fat  salt 
pork  and  cut  into  strips  and  lard  the 
partridges  with  these  thin  strips,  using  a 
larding  needle.  Then  put  two  tables^on- 
fuls  of  butter  into  a  shallow  saucepan, 
let  the  butter  melt,  add  the  onion  and 
carrot,  sliced  fine,  and  the  minced  pars- 
ley and  bay  leaf;  lay  the  partridges 
over  these,  cover  the  saucepan  and  let 
the  partridges  brown  till  they  reach  a 
nice  golden  color.  Then  add  a  half  pint 
of  chicken  or  veal  consomme,  or  if  these 
are  not  convenient  add  a  half  pint  of 
water.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  let  them 
simmer  down  for  twenty  minutes,  turn- 
ing occasionally,  so  that  they  may  be 
thoroughly  cooked.  Then  remove  the 
birds,  placing  them  on  a  hot  dish  in  the 
oven.  Make  a  Sauce  a  la  Financiere  by 
adding  to  the  gravy  in  which  the  part- 
ridges were  cooked;  one  tablesoonful  of 
flour;  let  it  brown  and  add  one  pint  of 
rich  chicken  broth,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  three  sliced  truffles,  two  dozen 
stoned  olives,  three  blanched  chicken  liv- 
ers cut  in  pieces,  one  dozen  mushrooms, 
one  dozen  small  balls  or  quenelles  (see 
recipe)  of  minced  veal  or  chicken  (may 
be  omitted),  and  a  pint  of  Sherry  or  Ma- 
deira wine.  Season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  a  dash  of  Cayenne.  Let 
all  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  using  a 
wooden  spoon  to  stir.  The  sauce  should 
be  of  the  consistency  of  rich  cream.  After 
twenty  minutes  place  the  partridges  back 
in  the  sauce  and  let  them  warm  for  about 
three  or  four  minutes.  Place  in  the  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  them  and  serve  hot 
with  garnish  of  toasted  Croutons. 


Partridge    and    Cabbage. 

Perdrix    aux    Choux. 

3  Fine  Partridges. 

A  Fine,  Tender  Head  of  Cabbage. 

12    Chaurice    (Sausage).     1-2    of   a    Pound 

of  Salt  Pork. 

1  Onion.     1  Carrot.     4  Cloves. 

1-2    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.     1   Herb 

Bouquet. 

1  Pint  of  Veal  or  Chicken  Broth  (White). 

1  Pint  of  Beef  Broth  or  Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Clean  the  partridges,  selecting  larg(> 
and  older  partridges  in  preference  to  the 
young.  Clean,  singe,  draw  and  wipe  well. 
Then  truss  them  neatly,  rub  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  butter  and  place  in  a 
roasting  pan.  In  the  meantime  take  a 
fine,  tender  head  of  cabbage,  clean  thor- 
oughly and  cut  into  four  parts.  Wash 
the  cabbage  well  in  cold  water  and  put 
into  boiling  salted  water  for  five  min- 
utes. Then  take  the  cabbage  out  of  the 
water  and  drain  well;  make  a  hollow 
in  the  center  of  each  piece  of  cabbage; 
place  within  the  partridges,  cover  with 
the  other  pieces  and  tie  together.  Put  in 
a  saucepan  the  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt 
pork  which  has  been  well  scalded  and 
washed  of  all  salt  and  cut  into  six  slices. 
Add  one  carrot  cut  into  four  pieces,  one 
whole  onion  into  which  you  will  have 
stuck  four  cloves,  the  herb  bouquet,  the 
sausage  and  one  pint  each  of  white  veal 
broth  or  chicken  broth,  and  one  pint  of 
water  or  beef  broth.  Season  with  a  small 
pinch  of  salt,  and  a  good  pinch  of  pepper, 
and  place  the  cabbage  in  this  prepara- 
tion. Put  the  partridges  in  the  oven  and 
let  them  roast  for  ten  minutes.  Then 
remove  and  take  the  cabbage  from  the 
mixture,  make  a  hollow  in  the  center  of 
the  cabbage,  place  within  the  partridges 
and  cover  with  the  remaining  portion  of 
cabbage;  tie  each  half  separately  to- 
gether; then  return  to  the  saucepan,  plac- 
ing a  piece  of  buttered  paper  over  to 
keep  all  air  from  escaping.  Put  the  lid 
on  the  saucepan,  set  in  the  oven  and  let 
the  partridges  cook  thus  for  an  hour. 
Remove  the  lid  and  paper,  skim  off  all 
that  may  adhere  to  the  surface,  drain  the 
cabbage  and  slice;  dress  neatly  on  a  hot 
dish.  Untruss  the  partridges  and  lay 
them  on  the  cabbage,  placing  on  each 
dressed  section  a  piece  of  sliced  boiled 
pork,  a  sausage  cut  in  half;  slice  the  car- 
rots nicely  in  round  pieces,  and  use  these 
as  a  decoration,  placing  them  artisti- 
cally around  the  dish.  Strain  the  sauce 
in  which  the  partridges  were  cooked  and 
let  it  reduce  slightly.  Serve  with  the  cab- 
bage and  partridge,  bringing  it  to  the 
table  in  a  separate  bowl  and  pouring 
over  the  cabbage  when  serving. 

Chartreuse   of   Partridge. 

Chartreuse  de  Perdrix. 

3  Fine  Partridges. 

A  Fine,  Tender  Head  of  Cabbage. 

12  Chaurice  (Sausasre).    1-4  Pound  of  Salt 

Pork. 

3    Small    Onions. 

2  Turnips.     2   Carrots.    4   Cloves. 
1 1-2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Green  Peas. 
1   Herb   Bouquet. 
1  Pint  of  Veal  or  Chicken  Broth. 
1   Pint   of  Consomme. 
1-2  Pint  of  Demi  Glace,  or  Madeira  Sauce. 
Prepare  the  partridges  and  cabbage  ex- 
actly  as   for   the   recipe   "Partridges   and 
Cabbage." 

Butter  a  three-pint  mold  lightly;  cut 
the  turnips,  carrots  and  onion  into  small 
even  pieces,  using  a  vegetable  tube;   put 


94 


a  layer  of  the  cut  vegetables  in  the  boU 
torn  of  the  mold;  lay  on  top  a  layer  of 
the  cooked  cabbage,  cut  the  partridges 
into  pieces  and- place  a  layer  of  them  on 
the  cabbage,  filling  in  the  hollow  spaces 
with  cabbage  chopped  fine  and  the 
chopped  vegetables;  fill  in  further  with 
the  sliced  sausage  and  lay  on  top  six 
slices  of  the  salt  pork;  then  place  another 
layer  of  the  partridges,  fill  in  the  hollow 
places  with  the  sliced  turnips  and  car- 
rots and  onions  and  the  sausage;  place 
on  top  another  layer  of  cabbage,  covering 
the  top  well  with  the  cabbage  and  press- 
ing down  very  carefully;  decorate  the 
mold  prettily  around  the  edges  with  the 
sliced  carrots  and  turnips  and  place  in  a 
tin  baking  pan  and  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Have  at  hand 
a  hot  dish,  turn  the  mold  upside  down 
and  carefully  draw  it  off  the  preparation. 
Send  to  the  table  hot,  and  serve  with 
Demi  Glace,  or  Madeira  Sauce.  (Se3 
recipe.) 

Breasts    of    Partridge    Truffle    Sauce. 

Supreme  de  Perdreaux,  Sauce  Perigueux. 

3  Fine  Young  Partridges.     3  Truffles. 

12  Mushrooms. 

1-2  Glass   of  Madeira  "Wine. 

2   Ounces   of   Chicken   Forcemeat. 

A    Pint    of    Sauce    a    la    Hollandaise. 

2  Gills  of  White  Wine. 

Clean,  singe,  draw  and  wipe  the  part- 
ridges carefully.  Then  remove  the  skin 
from  the  breasts.  By  a  delicate  manipu- 
lation with  a  very  sharp,  small  knife 
make  an  incision  on  the  top  of  each 
breastbone  from  end  to  end  and  _  cut 
off  the  entire  breast,  including  the  wing 
bone,  from  the  carcass.  Carefully  re- 
move the  small  filet  which  lies  under 
each  breast  and  place  on  a  dish  aside  for 
further  use.  Then  cut  an  incision  two 
inches  square  and  one  inch  in  depth  into 
each  breast,  on  the  inner  side.  Rub  well 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stuff  the  In- 
cision with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chicken 
forcemeat,  to  which  has  been  added  six 
finely-chopped  mushrooms  and  two  thin- 
ly-sliced truffles.  Butter  the  inside  of  a 
tin  saucepan  and  lay  the  six  breasts  very 
carefully  within.  Then  take  each  of  the 
six  small  filets  that  have  been  laid  aside; 
rub  them  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
make  a  small  incision  on  the  top  of  each 
and  place  within  a  thin  slice  of  truffle 
and  brush  lightly  with  melted  butter. 
Lay  these  filets  lightly  on.  top  of  each 
of  the  breasts,  and  again  brush  lightly 
with  melted  butter.  These  filets  and 
breasts  thus  arranged  constitute  su- 
premes.  Pour  into  the  pan  a  half  glass 
of  Madeira  wine  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  chicken  liquor,  cover  the  pan 
tightly  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  fif- 
teen minutes. 

Take  one  pint  of  Hollandaise  Sauce, 
add  one  finely-minced  truffle  and  a  half 
dozen  minced  mushrooms  and  two  gills 
of  Whiite  wine.  Place  the  sauce  In  a 
saucepan  of  hot  boiling  water  and  let 
the  sauce  heat  well  without  boiling.  Pour 
this  sauce  into  a  hot  dish  and  then  take 
the  pan  with  the  partridges  out  of  the 
oven,  remove  the  breasts  and  filets,  or 
"supremes,"  place  them  on  the  dish  with 
the  sauce,  garnish  nicelv  with  Croutons 
and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

QUAIL. 

Cailles. 

The  Quail  is  a  most  delicious  and 
tempting  bird.     It  delights  the  most  fas- 


tidious, and  that  famous  preparation, 
"Quail  on  Toast,"  or-  "Cailles  sur  Ca- 
napes," is  a  dish  that  no  great  dining  is 
considered  complete  without,  when  quail 
are   in   season. 

We  have  two  kinds  of  quail,  the  blue 
and  the  yellow  spotted,  or  pivele.  Both 
are  excellent.  If  purchased  in  the  mar- 
ket or  city  stores,  see  that  the  skin  is 
clear  and  the  breasts  full  and  tender. 
The  Quail  is  either  broiled  or  roasted, 
following  exactly  the  same  directions 
given  in  the  recipes  for  broiling  and 
roasting.  In  broiling,  allow  from  twelve 
to  fifteen  minutes.  In  roasting,  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five.  Always  cook  slow- 
ly on  a  slow  fire. 

Roasted    Quail. 

Cailles   Roties. 

6   Quails. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Water. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon.     6  Slices  of  Toast. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Sliced     Lemon    and    Parsley    Sprigs,    or 

Watercress    to    Garnish. 

Select  six  fine,  fat,  tender  Quail.  Pick, 
singe,  clean  and  wipe  them  well.  Butter 
the  inside  of  each  Quail  nicely  and  sprin- 
kle lightly  within  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Rub  lightly  on  the ,  "outside  with  butter, 
then  truss  the  bird  and  bind  the  body 
round  with  a  thin  strip  of  bacon.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  roasting 
pan  and  set  the  birds  in  the  pan  and 
cook  in  the  oven  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes,  according  to  size.  Have  ready 
the  buttered  toast.  Place  on  a  hot  dish, 
lay  a  bird  on  each  slice  of  toast.  Add  a 
little  butter  to  the  gravy  in  which  the 
Quails  have  been  roasted,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  water  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Let  this  cook  for  three  or  four  minutes, 
strain  and  set  on  the  stove  for  two  min- 
utes longer  and  pour  over  the  breast  of 
the  birds  so  that  it  will  soak  into  the 
bread.  Garnish  the  dish  nicely  with  pars- 
ley and  sliced  lemon  or  sliced  lemon  and 
watercress,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 
WTien  served  with  a  garnish  of  water- 
cress the  dish  is  called  "Cailles  aux  Ores- 
sons." 

Quail    Roasted    in    Grape    Leaves. 

Cailles  de  Laurier  aux  Feuilles  de  Vignes. 

6  Fine   Quails. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Water.     The  Juice  o^ 

1   Lemon 

6    Slices    of    Buttered    Toast.    12    Grape 

Leaves. 

Green  Grape  Jelly. 

Follow  the  directions  given  in  the  above 
recipe  for  roasting  Quails,  only  do  not 
wrap  the  Quails  in  strips  of  bacon.  In- 
stead, rub  the  bodies  well  with  butter 
and  then  envelop  the  birds  in  fresh  grape 
leaves;  set  in  a  baking  pan  and  proceed 
to  roast  according  to  the  directions  given 
above.  Garnish  a  dish  nicely  with  fresh 
young  grape  leaves,  place  the  Quails 
on  slices  of  toast  and  lay  upon  the  leavea 
and  send  the  dish  to  the  table  hot.  Serve 
the  Quails  with  Green  Grape  Jelly.  This 
is,  of  course,  a  rare  dish,  and  can  only 
be  served  at  the  season  when  the  grape 
vine  is  in  leaf.  It  is  much  affected  at 
such  times  by  epicures,  but  it  .is  a  dish 
within  the  reach  of  any  who  may  have  a 
grape  vine  near.  The  grape  leaves  im- 
part a  very  peculiar  and  grateful  flavor 
to  the  Quail. 


95 


Boasted    Qaall. 

Cailles  de  Laurier  Rottes. 

6  Fine,  Tender  Quails. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Water.    6  Truffles. 

S  Thin  Strips  of  Bacon.     The  Juice  of  1 

Lemon. 
Parsley  Sprigs  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Gar- 
nish. 

To  make  this  delicious  dish,  clean  the 
Quail  and  butter  inside  and  throw  in  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  with  truf- 
fles, and  bind  the  body,  after  rubbing, 
with  a  strip  of  bacon.  Set  in  the  oven 
in  a  baking  pan  in  which  you  have 
placed  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  let 
it  roast  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  size.  Have  ready  buttered  toast. 
Put  the  birds  on  the  toast.  Add  a  little 
butter  to  the  gravy  in  which  they  have 
been  roasted,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
water,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Let  this 
cook  for  three  or  four  minutes,  strain,  set 
on  the  stove  for  two  minutes  longer,  and 
pour  over  the  breast  of  the  bird,  so  that 
it  will  soak  into  the  bread,  and  serve 
with  a  nice  garnish  of  parsley  and  sliced 
lemon,  and  with  green  peas  as  an  efitree. 

Broiled    Quail    on    Toast. 

Cailles    Grillees    sur    Canapes. 

6  Fine,  Fat  Quaijs.     6  Strips  of  Bacon. 

2    Tablespoonfuls   of   Butter.     6   Slices    of 

Buttered  Toast. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Parsley  Sprigs  to  Garnish. 

Rub  the  bird  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  then  with  melted  butter.  Tie  a  strip 
of  very  finely-sliced  bacon  around  the 
body  of  the  bird,  joining  with  a  skewer, 
and  place  on  a  broiler  over  a  slow  fire, 
and  let  it  cook  for  ten,  fifteen  or  twenty, 
or  even  thirty  minutes,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  bird.  Turn  frequently,  so  that 
it  may  cook  well  without  burning.  When 
done  take  off  the  broiler.  Have  ready  al- 
ways buttered  French  toasts,  and  place 
the  birds  upon  them,  allowing  a  slice  of 
toast  for  each  bird.  Trim  away  the  rough 
edges  of  the  toast.  It  is  a  matter  of  taste 
whether  the  strip  of  bacon  be  removed  or 
not.  But  at  the  most  elegant  dinings  in 
Creole  New  Orleans  it  is  retained,  being 
removed  at  the  table  by  the  person  to 
whom  it  is  served,  the  hot  bacon  keep- 
ing the  bird  hot,  juicy  and  tender.  Al- 
ways pour  over  the  bird  a  little  of  the 
juice  that  has  run  from  it  in  broiling, 
and  let  it  soak  down  into  the  toast.  Four 
over  a  little  melted  butter  and  chopped 
parsley,  and  lemon  juice,  if  vou  like.  Gar- 
nish with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley  sprigs, 
and  bring  to  the  table  hot. 

Quails  Broiled  With  Bacon. 

Cailles  Grillees  et  Bardees. 

6  Fine,  Fat  Quails. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt.    1-2  Tablespoon- 

ful  of  Pepper. 
6  Slices  of  Bacon.     6  Slices  of  Toast. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Sauce   a   la    Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

Watercress  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Garnish. 
Clean  the  Quails,  singe  and  wipe  well. 
Split  them  through  the  back  without  sep- 
arating the  breast  and  break  the  leg 
bones.  Rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  little  melted  butter,  mixed  to- 
gether, and  put  the  Quails  on  a  broiler 
and  let  them  broil  on  a  moderate  fire  for 
fifteen  minutes,  allowing  seven  and  a 
half  minutes  to  either  side,  and  turning 
frequently     to     prevent     burning.     Have 


ready  a  hot  dish  with  six  slices  of  but- 
tered toast,  lay  the  Quail  on  top  and  pour 
over  a  little  melted  butter  (Sauce  a  la 
Maitre  d'Hotel) ,  and  then  decorate  the 
dish  with  parsley  sprigs,  on  which  lay 
six  nicely  broiled  slices  of  breakfast 
bacon. 

Smothered    Quail. 

Cailles    Braissees. 

6    Fine,    Fat   Quails.    1-2   Carrot. 

1-2  of  an  Onion.     1-2  Cupful  of  Water. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

6  Thin  Strips  of  Bacon. 

Select  fine,  fat  Quails,  clean,  singe  and 
wipe  well.  Truss  neatly  and  cover  with 
a  thin  layer  of  bacon.  Then  place  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan; 
place  the  Quails  in  the  pan;  add  half  of 
an  onion  and  carrot  minced  very  fine, 
cover  and  let  the  Quails  brown  to  a  nice 
golden  color.  Then  moisten  with  a  half 
cup  of  water  and  set  the  pan  in  the  oven. 
Cover  with  buttered  paper  and  let  the 
Quails  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish  nicely  garnished  with  pars* 
ley  sprigs  or  lettuce  leaves. 

Braised    Quails,    Celery    Sauce. 

Cailles  Braisees  a  la  Sauce  Celeri. 
Proceed   to    clean   and   cook   the   Quails 
as   in   the   recipe   given   above  and   serve 
with  a  pint  of  hot  Celery  Sauce   (see  re- 
cipe)  poured  over. 

Quails    Braised    a   la    Financiere. 

Cailles  Braissees  a  la  Financiere. 

Braise  the  Quails  as  in  the  recipe  for 
"Braised  Quails,"  and  serve  with  a  pint 
of  hot  Sauce  a  la  Financiere  poured  over. 

WOODCOCK. 

Becasse. 

The  "Becasse"  is  a  rare  bird.  It  is  in 
season  from  December  till  April.  In  pur- 
chasing see  that  the  skin  is  clear,  the 
breasts  firm  and  plump  and  the  wings 
tender  to  the  touch. 

Pluck  and  clean,  but  never  draw  these 
birds.  The  olden  epicurean  ideas  of  Cre- 
ole cookery  forbid  this.  If  you  were  to 
serve  the  Becasse  to  an  old  Creole  bon 
vivant  without  the  entrails  he  would  con- 
sider it  quite  shocking,  and  his  indigna- 
tion would  vent  itself  immediately  in 
unmistakable  terms.  The  "Becasse"  is  al- 
ways broiled  or  roasted  and  served  on 
buttered  French  toast.  If  roasted,  al- 
ways put,  if  you  can.  one  truffle  in  "the 
body  as  a  stuffing,  and  when  serving 
a  little  melted  butter  on  top  of  the  breast. 
Boast  Woodcock  on  Toast. 
Becasses  Roties  sur  Canapes. 

6  Fine  Woodcock. 
6  Slices  of  Buttered  Toast. 

6  Strips  of  Bacon. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

Sliced    Lemon    and   Sprigs   of   Parsley    or 

Watercress  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  the  birds  as  in  the  "Invariable 

Rule   for  Roasting  Birds."      (See  recipe.) 

Rub  with  salt  and  pepper  and  melted 
butter,  put  a  truffle  in  each  bird  for 
stuffing,  and  in  all  put  a  little  lump  of 
butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a 
pinch  of  chopped  thyme,  parsley  and  bay 
leaf,  and  a  small  pinch  of  the  four  spices, 
but  very,  very  small,  indeed.  Truss  neat- 
ly. Bind  with  strips  of  bacon,  and  place 
in  a  baking  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.     Let    them    bake    or    roast    thirly 


96 


minutes  or  less,  according  to  size;  remove 
from  the  oven  and  place  on  buttered 
French  toast  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  and  set 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  to  keep  warm. 
Prepare  gravy  by  simply  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water  to  the  gravy  made 
when  cooking  the  birds,  let  it  cook  for 
two  minutes;  then  strain;  let  it  cook  for 
two  minutes  more  and  pour  upon  the 
breast  of  the  bird  so  that  it  will  soaii 
down  into  the  toast.  Garnish  nicely 
with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  lemon,  and 
serve    hot. 

Broiled    Woodcock    on    Toast, 
Becasses  Grilles  sur  Canapes. 

6  Fine,   Fat  Woodcock.    6   Slices   of  But- 
tered French  Toast. 
6  Fine  Strips  of  Breakfast  Bacon. 
2      Tablespoonfuls      of      Butter.     Parsley 
Sprigs,  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Garnish 

Prepare  the  birds  by  hand  picking. 
Singe  and  wipe  well.  Rub  the  bird  well 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  then  with  melt 
ed  butter.  Tie  a  strip  of  very  finely- 
sliced  bacon  around  the  body  of  the  bird, 
joining  with  a  skewer,  and  place  on  a 
broiler  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  it  ?fook 
for  ten,  fifteen  or  twenty,  or  even  thirty 
minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  bird. 
Turn  frequently  so  that  it  may  cook 
well  without  burning.  When  done  take 
off  the  broiler.  Have  ready  always  but- 
tered French  toasts,  and  place  the  birds 
upon  them,  allowing  a  slice  of  toast  for 
each  bird.  Trim  away  the  rough  edges 
of  the  toast.  Always  pour  over  the  bird 
a  little  of  the  Juice  that  has  run  from  it 
in  tiroiling,  and  let  it  soak  down  into 
the  toast.  Four  over  a  little  melted  but- 
ter and  chopped  parsley,  and  lemon  juice, 
if  you  like.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon 
and  parsley  sprigs,  and  bring  to  the  table 
hot.  In  cooking,  and  in  serving,  follow 
the  "Invariable  Rule  for  Broiling  Birds." 
(See  recipe.) 

SNIPE. 

Becassine. 

The  Snipe  is  one  of  our  finest  birds, 
and  is  much  sought  after  by  epicures. 
But  the  glory ,  of  our  Louisiana  forests 
is  that  the  rich  gifts  of  nature  may  be 
had  by  the  poor  as  well  as  the  millionaire. 

The  Becassine  is  a  welcome  dish  at 
the  most  exclusive  tables.  It  is  a  winter 
bird,  and  is  with  us  from  December  till 
April,  as  also  the  "Becasse,"  or  "W^ood- 
cock."  If  you  tell  an  old  Creole  that  you 
are  going  to  treat  him  to  "Becassines"  or 
"Becasses,"  he  will  smack  his  lips  and 
say:  "Ah!  you  are  a  connoisseur." 

"Becassines"  are  either  roasted  or 
broiled;  follow  implicitly  the  directions 
given  in  the  rules  for  broiling  and  roast- 
ing birds.  Serve  in  the  same  manner, 
with  a  garnish  of  cresses  or  parsley,  and 
always  on  buttered  French  toasts.  In 
selecting  Snipe,  see  that  the  flesh  is  clear 
and  firm  and  the  breasts  full  and  ten- 
der. 

Roast    Snipe    on   Toast. 

Becassines  Roties  sur  Canapes. 

6  Fine  Snipe.    6  Slices  of  Buttered  French 

Toast. 

6  Strips  of  Bacon. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  or  Butter. 

1   Sprig  Each   of   Thvme   and   Parsley.     1 

Bay  Leaf. 

Sliced    Lemon    and    Sprigs    of   Parsley   or 

Watercress  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  the  birds  as  in  the  "Invariable 
Rule  for  Roasting  Birds  "  Rub  with  salt 
and    pepper    and    melted    butter.     If    you 


can  atford  it,  put  a  truffle  Into  each 
bird  for  stuffing,  and  in  all  put  a  little 
lump  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, a  pinch  of  chopped  tnyme,'  parsley 
and  bay  leaf,  and  a  small  plncli  of  the 
four  sptces,  but  very,  very  small,  indeed. 
Bind  with  strips  of  bacon,  and  place 
in  a  baking  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Let  them  roast  thirty  minutes 
or  less,  according  to  size,  then  remove 
and  place  always  on  buttered  French 
toast  on  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  ana  set 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  to  keep  warm 
and  juicy.  Meanwhile  prepare  a  gravy 
by  simply  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  wa- 
ter to  the  gravy  made  in  cooking  the 
birds;  let  it  cook  for  t'wo  minutes;  then 
strain;  let  it  cook  for  two  minutes  more 
and  pour  a  little  upon  the  breast  of  each 
bird,  so  that  it  will  soak  down  into  the 
toast.  Garnish  nicely  with  sprigs  of 
parsley  or  watercress  and  slices  of  lemon, 
and  serve  hot. 

Broiled    Snipe    on    Toast. 

Becassines    Grillees    sur    Canapes. 

6  Fine  Fat  Snipe. 

6  Slices  of  Buttered  French  Toast. 

6  Strips  of  Bacon. 

2     Tablespoonfuls      of     Butter,     Parsley 

Sprigs  and  Sliced  Lemon  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  the  bird  by  hand  picking,  sing* 
ing  and  trussing  neatly,  following  the 
"Invariable  Rule  for.  Broiling  Birds." 
(See   recipe.) 

Rub  the  bird  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  then  with  melted  butter.  Tie  a  strip 
of  very  finely-sliced  bacon  around  the 
body  of  the  bird,  joining  with  a  skewer, 
and  place  on  a  broiler  over  a  slow  fire 
and  let  it  cook  for  ten,  fifteen  or  twenty, 
or  even  thirty  minutes,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  bird.  Turn  frequently,  so 
that  it  may  cook  well  without  burning. 
When  done  take  off  the  broiler.  Have 
ready  always  buttered  French  toasts,  and 
place  the  birds  upon  them,  allowing  a 
slice  of  toast  for  each  bird.  Trim  away 
the  rough  edges  of  the  toast.  It  la  a 
matter  of  taste  whether  the  strip  of  bacon 
be  removed  or  not.  Always  pour  over 
the  bird  a  little  of  the  juice  that  has 
run  from  it  in  broiling,  and  let  it  soak 
down  into  the  toast.  Pour  over  a  little 
melted  butter  and  chopped  oarsley,  and 
lemon  juice  It  you  like.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon  and  parsley  sprigs,  and 
bring   to   the  table   hot. 

Grassets,     Kecd     Birds,      Koblns,     Larks, 
Broiled  or  Roasted 

Grassets,      Ortolans,      Grives,     Alouettes, 
Grillees   ou   Rotls. 

6  or  8  Birds.     6  or  8  Slices  of  Toast. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

6  or  8  Strips  of  Bacon.     Salt  and  Pepper 

to    Taste. 

Sliced    Lemon    and    Sprigs   of   Parsley  or 

Watercress  to  Garnish. 

Grassets,  Reed  Birds,  Robins  and  Larks 
are  delightful  small  game  that  come  in 
the  summer.  Thev  are  with  us  from  July, 
through  October.  The  Reed  Birds,  or 
Ortolans,  are  the  terror  of  the  rice  plant- 
ers of  Louisiana.  They  peck  at  the  rice 
and  spoil  the  growth,  and  are,  conse- 
quently, shot  in  this  season,  when  the 
rice  is  maturing,  in  order  to  rid  the  rice 
fields  of  their  presence.  They  are  deli- 
cate eating,  as  are  also  the  Louisiana 
Robins,  Larks,  and  the  Grassets,  which 
latter  are  fat,  plumpy  birds  of  the  Robin 
order.  The  name  Grasset  is  given  to  in- 
dicate fatness  and  plumpness.  These 
birds  are  always  broiled  or  roasted,  fol- 
lowing the  invariable  rules  laid  down 
above.  They  should  be  broiled  over  a 
clear  fire,  and  do  not  require  much  more 


97 


than  fiye  minutes  to  broil;  ten  minutes 
to  roast  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve,  whether 
broiled  or  roasted,  on  buttered  French 
toast,  and  garnish  with  cresses  or  pars- 
sprigs.  All  these  little  birds  should  be 
broiled  "en  brochette,"  that  is,  a  skewer 
should  be  run  through  the  body.  Salt 
and  pepper  after,  and  pour  melted  butter 
and  chopped  parsley  over  them.  If  roast- 
ed, they  may  be  served  with  a  brown 
gravy. 

POUIES   D'EAU. 

Poules   d'Eau. 

2  Pairs   of  Poules  d'Eau. 
6  Turnips.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

2  Onions,   Chopped   Fine. 

1  Square  Inch  of  Ham,  Minced  Fine. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

3  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

The  poule  d'Eau  is  a  species  of  water 
duck,  resembling  both  a  chicken  Etnd  a 
duck.  The  Creoles  gave  it  the  name  of 
"Poules  d'Eau,"  or  "Water  Chicken."  As 
it  lives  entirely  in  the  water  and  marsh- 
es, never  coming  on  dry  land,  it  is  classed 
by  the  Creoles  among  the  fish  and  served 
as  a  Friday  or  fast-day  dish.  It  makes  a 
very  delightful  entree,  either  stewed  plain 
or  with  turnips.  It  is  never  cooked  in 
any  other  way.  As  it  feeds  much  on  flsu, 
It  often  has  the  flavor  of  fish.  In  the 
hands  of  an  inexperienced  cook  it  is 
sometimes  unpalatable  on  that  account 
Before  cooking  parboil  a  few  minutes  if 
there  is  the  slightest  odor  of  fish;  add  a 
small  peeled  carrot  or  onion  to  the  water 
and  this  will  absorb  the  flavor  of  fish. 

Stewed    Poules    d'Eau. 

Poules  d'Eau  a  la  Creole. 

1  Pair  of  Poules  d'Eau. 

1  Square  Inch  of  Ham.     2  Onions. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.     1    Clove    of 

Garlic. 

1  Herb  Bouquet,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

1  Glass  of  Claret.     1  Cup  of  Water. 

1  Can  of  Mushrooms. 

Clean  and  pick  the  Poules  d'Eau  nicely. 
Cut  into  joints  or  stew  whole,  as  desired. 
The  Creoles  generally  out  them  into  joints. 
Rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  two 
onions  very  fine.  Put  them  into  the  stew- 
pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  but-, 
ter,  and  let  them  brown  slightly.  Then 
add  the  well-seasoned  ducks.  Let  these 
brown  well,  and  add  the  one  square-inch 
of  finely-minced  ham.  (Omit  the  ham  on 
fast  days.)  Add  the  clove  of  garlic  and 
two  sprigs  each  of  thyme,  parsley  and 
one  bay  leaf,  minced  very  fine.  Let  this 
brown  with  the  Poules  d'Eau,  stirring 
frequently,  and  then  pour  over  one  good 
glass  of  Claret.  Let  this  simmer  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  constantly,  so  that  it 
will  not  burn,  and  add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Season  well  to  taste,  and  let  them 
simmer  well  for  about  an  hour.  Serve 
hot  with  Croutons  for  a  garnish. 

Stewed  Poules  d'Eau  With  Turnips. 

Salmi    de    Poules    d'Eau   aux    Navets. 

1   Pair   of   Poules    d'Eau. 

6  Turnips. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Onions  Chopped  Fine. 

1  Square  Inch  of  Ham,  Minced  Very  Fine. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste.     1    Clove    of 

Garlic. 

S  Sprigs  Each  of  Thytne  and  Parsley. 


This  is  the  most  delightful  way  of  cook- 
ing Poules  d'Eau.  The  tui^nip  blends  well 
with  the  flavor,  and  a  nicer  way  of 
serving  this  vegetable  in  combination 
does  not  exist.  Clean  the  Poules  d'Eau 
and  cut  into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  the_  pot, 
and  as  it  melts  add  the  onions,  chopped 
fine.  Let  this  brown  and  then  add  the 
pieces  of  Poules  d'Eau.  Let  them  brown, 
and  add  the  minced  ham.  (Omit  the  ham 
on  fast  days.)  Immediately  after  add  the 
turnips,  sliced  or  cut  in  quarters,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour.  Stir  well, 
let  it  brown  slightly,  and  add  the  minced 
thyme,  parsley  and  bay  leaf,  and  one 
clove  of  garlic,  minced  very  fine.  Stir 
well  again,  and  let  it  smother  for  about 
fifteen  minutes,  stirring  frequently,  so 
that  it  will  not  burn.  Then  add  water  al- 
most sufficient  to  cover  the  Poules  d'Eau. 
and  stir  well.  Cover  tight  and  let  the 
mixture  smother  for  a  half  hour  longer. 
Tou  will  have  one  of  the  nicest  dishes 
that  ever  graced  a  table. 
Game  Pie. 
Pate  de  Gibier. 

1  Dozen  Small  Birds.  1  Dozen  Eggs. 
A  Rich  Pie  Crust.  1  Dozen  Hard-Boiled 
Eggs. 
2  Cups  of  Egg  Dressing. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Take  one  dozen  small  birds.  Snipe, 
Quail,  Woodcock,  etc.,  and  clean  well, 
inside  and  out.  Stuff  each  one  with  a 
dressing  the  same  as  for  turkey,  using 
either  egg  or  oysters  as  desired.  Loosen 
the  joints  with  a  knife,  but  do  not  sep- 
arate them.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan,  with 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  let  them 
cook  till  nearly  tender.  Then  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  again  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Thicken  the  gravy 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  let  cook 
for  ten  minutes  more  and  then  remove 
and  set  to  cool.  Butter  a  pudding  dish 
and  line  the  sides  with  a  rich  pie  crust 
(see  recipe).  Have  ready  the  hard-boiled 
eggs,  cut  in  slices.  Put  in  a  layer  of  tho 
eggs  and  a  layer  of  the  birds  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Pour  over  the  gravy  and 
then  cover  the  pie  with  a  crust  and  bake 
to  a  light  brown. 

The  pie  may  also  be  mad%  very  nicely 
by  stewing  the  birds  as  one  would  a 
chicken  (see  recipe),  and  then  line  a  pie 
pan  with  a  rich  pie  crust;  bake  lightlj-, 
fill  in  with  the  stewed  birds,  pour  over 
the  gravy,  place  a  cover  of  the  pie  crust 
on  top,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  to  a 
light  brown. 

Chand-EToid  of  Game. 
Chaud-Froid    de    Gibier. 
The    Breasts    of    3    Ducks,    or    1    Dozen 
Breasts    of    Small    Game. 
1  Cup  of  Chicken  Forcemeat. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
1  Pint  of  Aspic  Jelly. 
1  Pint  of  Poulette  Sauce. 
3  Truffles.     Watercress  to  Garnish. 
This   is   a  most  recherche   dish,   seldom 
made    in    these    days    on    account  rtf    the 
cost,    but    in    old    Creole    days    it    was    a 
standing    dish    at    every    great    feast.     It 
may     be     made     with      Canvasback      or 
French    or    Teal    Duck,    or    with    Wood- 
cock,  Snipe  and  other  small   game.    The 
dish    demands   such    beautiful    decoration 
that  it  requires  an  artist  to  make  a  real 
Creole    Chaud-Froid. 

Clean  the  ducks  or  game  or  spring 
chicken,  if  the  latter  is  used;  wash  ana 
truss  neatly.  Then  wrap  in  buttered  pa- 
per and  smother  according  to  recipe  for 
Smothered    Chicken    (see    recipe).     When 


98 


done  take  out  of  the  paper  and  separate 
the  breasts  of  the  game  or  chicken  from 
the  legs.  Trim  them  neatly  and  stuff 
the  portion  between  the  breasts  proper 
and  the  filets  with  a  chicken  forcemeat. 
(See  recipe.)  Mix  together  equal  parts  of 
Aspic  Jelly  and  Poulette  Sauce.  (See  re- 
cipes.) Stir  till  thick  and  surround  with 
crushed  ice.  Then  dip  the  breasts  of  the 
game  or  chicken  into  this  mixture.  Take 
a  fine  baking  sheet  or  dish  and  arrange 
the  breasts  in  fanciful  or  pyramidal 
figures  on  this  dish,  and  when  set  dec- 
orate them  nicely  with  sliced  truffles 
and  the  remaining  sauce  that  has  been 
poured  into  timbale  molds  that  have  been 


previously  lined  with  Aspic  Jelly,  and 
which  have  become  set.  Decorate  nicely 
with  these  timbales  of  Aspic  and  Foulettie 
Sauce,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  Crou- 
tons, on  which  you  will  have  placed  por- 
tions of  Aspic  Jelly.  Decorate  the  edges 
of  the  dish  with  watercress,  and  place  on 
the  table  cold.  Wlien  ready  to  serve, 
serve  a  portion  of  the  breast  of  the  duck 
or  the  entire  breast  of  the  small  game 
on  a  Crouton  of  Aspic  Jelly,  with  the 
timbale  turned  out  on  the  end  of  the 
chicken  or  game  and  the  other  end  gar- 
nished with  watercress.  If  chickens  are 
used  be  careful  to  have  spring  chickens 
of  one  and  a  half  pounds  in  "weight. 


CHAPTER   XX. 

(STUFFING    AND    DRESSING    FOB    POVI^TRY,    GAME,   FISH,    ETC. 

FOBOEMEAT. 

Des  Farcies — Des  Quenelles. 


The  Creoles  claim  that  oysters,  eggs, 
chestnuts  or  truffles  are  the  only  ele- 
gant dressings  for  poultry  or  game,  and 
oysters  or  egg  stuffing  for  fish.  The  fol- 
lowing are  the  methods  of  preparing  these 
dressings: 

Oyster    Dressing. 

Farci  aux  Huitres. 

2   Dozen   Oysters. 

1   Cup   of   Bread,   Wet   and  Squeezed. 

1  Onion,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

1-2    Square-Inch    Ham.     1    Tablespoontul 

Butter. 

1-2  Teaspoonful   of   Sage. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 

Leaf,   Minced   Very   Fine. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wet  the  soft  of  the  bread  and  squeeze 
thoroughly  till  you  have  one  cup,  judging 
the  quantity  of  stuffing  always  by  the 
size  of  the  tfiwl  to  be  stuffed,  and  adding 
more  in  proportion,  if  needed.  Season 
the  bread  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
add  the  minced  herbs,  mixing  well.  Take 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  put  in  the 
frying  pan.  As  it  melts  add  the  onion, 
which  must  be  chopped  very  fine.  Let 
this  brown  for  about  five  minutes,  and 
while  frying  add  the  bread  and  stir  well. 
Then  add  the  square  inch  of  ham,  minced 
very  fine.  Mix  well  and  let  all  fry  well. 
Season  again  to  taste.  Then  add  the  two 
dozen  oysters,  cut  in  two,  with  all  the 
hard  portions  taken  off.  Mix  all  well, 
and  fry  for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Then, 
if  you  prefer  a  dry  dressing,  place  the 
pan  in  the  oven  and  let  the  dressing  bake 
for  ten  minutes.  If  you  prefer,  as  many 
do,  the  moister  and  richer  dressing  stuff 
the  fowl  or  fish  immediately,  and  pro- 
ceed to  bake.  Arrange  and  bake  the  fowl 
as  in  the  directions  on  these  special  sub- 
jects. Twice  the  above  quantity  of  bread 
will  be  needed,  and  perhaps  a  little  more, 
in  stuffing  turkey.  Nothing  is  more  ele- 
gant or  recherche  than  an  oyster  dress- 
ing. The  flavor  of  sag©  Is  very  much 
liked  by  some  and  disliked  by  others. 
Ir  used — and  the  Creoles  always  use  it- 
add  a  teaspoonful  sifted,  and  mix  thoi- 
oughly  with  the  bread  before  putting  it 
in  the  frying  pan,  if  two  cups  of  dressing 
are  used,  and  less  for  one  cup,  in  pro- 
portion. 


Oyster    StQffins    for   Poultry, 

Farci    d'Huitres. 

All  depends  upon  the  size  of  the  fowl. 
For  the  ordinary-sized  fifteen  or  sixteen- 
pound  turkey  take 

3   Dozen   Oysters. 

1      Quart     of      Stale     Bread,      Wet     and 

Squeezed. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Parsley. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1    Bay    Leaf.     3    Tablespoonfuls   of   Sage. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Drain  the  oysters;  wet  the  stale  bread 
with  -  hot  water,  squeezing  thoroughly. 
Chop  fine  the  liver  and  gizzard  of  the 
fowl,  and  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  into 
the  frying  pan.  Mix  in  the  chopped  onions 
and  add  the  chopped  liver  and  gizzard. 
As  it  begins  to  brown,  throw  in  the 
chopped  herbs,  and  then  add  the  bread, 
which  has  been  mixed  well  and  seasoned 
with  the  chopped  sage.  Mix  well.  Add 
to  this  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
stir,  blending  all  thoroughly.  Now  add 
the  pint  or  so  of  oyster  water,  and  as  it 
is  reduced  mix  in  the  oysters.  Stir  for 
three  or  four  minutes  and  take  off  and 
dress  the  fowl.  This  dressing  is  highly 
recommended. 


Staffing  of  Trnffles. 

Farci  aux  Truffes. 

1-4    Can    of   Truffles. 
1   Cup    of   Bread,    Wet  and   Squeezed. 
1   Onion,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 
1-2  Square  Inch   of  Ham.     1  Tablespoon- 
ful  of  Butter. 
21-2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Sage. 
1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 
Leaf,  Minced  Very  Fine. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  M 
for  egg  or  oyster  stuffing,  using  a  quar- 
ter of  a  can  of  truffles  chopped,  instead 
of  the  oysters  or  egg.  But  bear  in  mind 
that  this  is  an  expensive  stuffing.  Some 
fastidious  epicures  stuff  the  fowl  entirely 
with  truffles,  but  this  will  make  the  disb 
of  turkev  dressed  In  such  manner  cost 
at   least  $10. 


99 


Farcls  aux  Oeufs. 

4  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 
1    Cup     of     Bread,     Wet    and     Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

1    Chopped    Onion.    1-2    Square    Inch    ut 

Ham. 

1  Teaspoonful   of   Butter. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   Sage. 

1  Sprig  Bach  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 

Leaf. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wet  the  bread  and  squeeze  thoroughly. 
Chop  the  eggs  fine  and  mix  with  the 
bread.  Mince  the  herbs  and  add.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  the 
onion  and  fry  it  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  As  it  browns  add  the  bread.  Into 
which  you  have  mixed  the  sifted  sage,  if 
desired.  Add,  as  it  fries,  the  half  square- 
inch  of  ham,  minced  very  fine.  Season 
again  to  taste,  and  let  all  fry  about  ten 
minutes.  Take  off  the  stove  and  stuff 
the  fowl  or  fish  and  proceed  with  the  ar- 
rangement for  baking.  Egg  dressing  Is 
a  very  nice  stuffing  for  fish,  if  oysters 
cannot  be  had. 

Stuffing    for    Ducks. 

Farci   Pour  les   Canards. 

2  Dozen   Oysters. 

1  Cup  of  Bread,  Wiet  and  Squeezed, 

1  Onion,  Chopped  Very  Pine. 

1-2  Square  Inch   of  Ham. 

1  Tablespoonful  -ot  Butter. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Sage. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 

Leaf,   Minced  Very   Fine. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

The  Creoles  generally  stuff  the  do- 
mestic duck  when  roasted,  using  an  oys- 
ter stuffing.  (See  recipe.)  But  many  hold 
that  the  flavor  of  the  wild  duck  is  finer 
when  not  stuffed.  This  is  a  matter  of 
taste.  The  wild  duck  stuffed  with  oys- 
ters is  a  most  delectable  dish. 

Ducks  may  be  stuffed  with  truffles. 
This  is  much  affected  by  epicures  _when 
serving  the  famous  Mallard  or  Canvas- 
back  Ducks  at  great  dinings.  But  a 
duck  stuffed  with  truffles  is  a  very  ex- 
pensive dish. 

The  domestic  duck  is  always  roasted 
and  stuffed.     Serve  with  Currant  Pelly. 

Stuffing  for  Goose. 

Farci  Pour  I'Oie. 

1  Cup  of  Mashed  Potatoes.     4  Apples. 

4      Onions.     1-2     Teaspoonful      Powdered 

Sage. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Thyme. 

Salt  and   Pepper  to   Taste. 

Any  stuffing  used  in  baking  a  turkey 
may  be  used  for  roast  goose,  such  as 
oyster  or  egg,  etc.  But  the  following  is 
an  excellent  special  dressing  and  seems 
to  bring  out  more  than  any  other  the 
flavor  of  the  goose: 

Take  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  four 
apples  (peeled  nicely  and  cored),  and 
four  onions;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sage, 
powdered  well;  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
thyme,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Place  the  apples  and  onions  and  herbs  in 
a  saucepan  and  add  water  sufficient  to 
cover  nicely.  I^et  all  cook  together  till 
soft.  Then  mash  well  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Add  the  cup  of  mashed  pota- 
toes and  mix  well,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Stuff  the  body  and  craw, 
sew  up  and  truss  the  goose,  and  bake 
according  to  recipe.  (See  recipe  for 
"Roast  Goose.") 


A  Simple  Bread  Stufflnc. 

Farci    do    Pain. 

1  Pint  of  Stale  Bread,  Wet  and  Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  Each  of  Chopped  Parsley 

and  Thyme. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wet  the  bread  and  squeeze.  Add  the 
minced  herbs  and  season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  fry 
in  butter. 

Onion    Staffing. 
Parol  aux  Ognons. 

1  Pint  of  Stale  Bread,  Wet  and  Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  Each  of  Chopped  Parsley 

and  Thyme. 
1   Bay   Leaf.     Salt  and   Pepper   to   Taste. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  for  bread  stuffing,  using  al^o  one 
large  onion,  chopped  very  fine,  and  mixed 
thoroughly.  This  is  a  very  nice  dressing 
and   cheap. 

FOBCEMEATS. 
Quenelles. 

Quenelles  are  small  balls  of  fowl,  fish 
meat  or  other  chopped  and  hashed  In- 
gredients rolled  nicely,  and  used  as  a 
garnish  for  poultry  and  fish,  and  fish 
or  meat  sauces,  often  adding  both  to 
the  taste  and  beauty  of  a  dish. 
Creole  Forcemeat. 
Quenelles  a  la  Creole. 

Calf's  Liver.     A  Slice  of  Pork  Fat. 
1  Onion.     2  Sprigs  of  Thyme. 
2  Sprigs  of  Parsley.     1  Bay  Leaf. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Grated    Nutmeg. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Take   calf's  liver  and   pork  fat,   in   the 
proportions  of  two-thirds  liver  and  one- 
third  fat.     Grind  both  together  very,  very 
fine.     Then    mince    an    onion,    and    two 
sprigs   each    of   thyme    and   parsley,   and 
one  bay  leaf,   and  mix  with   the   ground 
meat;    add   a  half  teaspoonful  of  grated 
nutmeg  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix 
well.     Put  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  but- 
ter   in    a    frying   pan    and    throw    In    the 
chopped    meat.     Let    all    blend    well    to- 
gether   without    cooking    for    about    two 
minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.     Take  tho 
mixture  off,  and,  when  it  cools,  form  into 
little  balls  about  the  size  and  shape  of  a 
pecan.     Roll  these  in  flour,  and  then  par- 
boil  in  boiling  water  that  has  been  well 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.     The  balls 
then  become  Quenelles,  and  are  used  as  a 
garnish  for  meats,  etc.     Place  around  tho 
meat  and  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve 
hot.     These  are  the  genuine   Quenelles. 
Sausage    Forcemeat. 
Quenelles  de  Sauclsses. 
1-4  Pound  of  Fresh  Pork. 

2  Square  Inches  of  Lean  Raw  Ham. 

1  Sprig  of  Thyme.    1  Bay  Leaf.    1  Sprig 
of  Parsley. 
A  Pinch  ot  Grated  Nutmeg. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Hash   the  pork;    season   well   with   salt 
and    pepper,    according   to    taste,    adding 
a     pinch     of     grated     nutmeg     and     the 
chopped    herbs    and   minced   ham.    Hash 
all  very  fine  and  make  into  small  balls 
and  use  as  desired.    This  is  a  nice  gar- 
nishing    for     meat     when     served     with 
sauces. 


100. 


OodiTeanx    Forcemeat. 

Quenelles   Godiveaux. 

1-4   Pound    of   Suet.     1-4   Pound    of    Lean 

Veal. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.    1-2    Gill    of 

Cold  Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful    Each    of    Minced    Thyme 

and  Parsley.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

2  Raw  Eggs.    A  Pinch  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Remove  all  the  stringy  tissue  from  the 
suet  and  pound  in  a  mortar;  hash  the 
veal  well  and  mix  with  the  meat.  Take 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  blend  well 
with  half  a  gill  of  cold  milk  and  a  table- 
'Spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  add  to  the 
suet  and  veal  and  blend  well.  Season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a 
pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Then  add  the 
yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  and  the  white  ot 
one  egg,  and,  when  well  blended,  strain 
all  through  a  sieve,  roll  into  balls  and 
■use  as  needed.  In  making  this  force- 
meat, poultry  or  game  may  be  used  in- 
.stead   of  veal. 

Chicken   Forcemeat. 
Quenelles   de  Volaille. 

2  Raw  Chicken  Breasts, 

The   Tolks  of  4  Eggs.     Bread   Soaked    in 

Water. 

1   Teaspoonful   of   Butter. 

1    Bay     Leaf.     1     Teaspoonful     Each     of 

Thyme    and    Parsley. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A  Pinch  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  pound  in  a 
mortar;  add  an  equal  quantity  of  bread 
soaked  in  milk  or  water  and  well 
squeezed;  add  the  butter  and  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs:  blend  well  and  season  high- 
ly with  salt  and  pepper  and  the  minced 
herbs,  and  add  a  pinch  of  grated  nut  - 
meg.  Mix  all  together  and  roll  into 
balls,   and   use   as   desired. 

Game   Forcemeat 
Quenelles  de  Gibier. 

The   Breasts    of  Any   Birds.     4   Eggs. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Butter. 

1  Bay  Leaf.    1  Sprig  of  Thyme.    1  Sprig 

of  Parsley. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

In  making  a  forcemeat  of  game,  use 
judgment  in  regard  to  quantity.  The 
partridge    is    the    best    bird    for    a    game 


forcemeat.  Take  two  breasts  of  partridges, 
cut  into  pieces,  and  pound  in  a  mortar. 
Add  the  same  quantity  of  bread  that  has 
been  wet  with  milk  or  water  and  squeezed 
well.  Add  the  butter  and  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  and  season  highly  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nut- 
meg. Mix  thoroughly  and  press  all 
through  a  sieve.  Two  well-pdunded 
truffles  may  be  added.     Use  as  desired. 

Fish  Forcemeat. 

Quenelles   de  Poisson. 

1-2   Pound  of  Firm  Fish. 
The  Whites  of  3  Eggs. 
1-4  Pint  of  Cream  or  Milk.    1  Bay  Leaf. 
1  Teaspoonful  Each  of  Minced  Thyme 
and  Parsley. 
Salt  and  White  Pepper  to  Taste. 
A  Pinch  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 
The   left-over  fish   may  be  utilized  for 
these  Quenelles,  or  take  a  half  pound  of 
any    firm    fish — Sheepshead,    Redfish    or 
Red  Snapper.     Take  out  all  the  bones  and 
remove  the  skin.     Pound  the  fish  well  in 
a  mortar,   and   add   gradually  the     well- 
whipped  whites  of  three  eggs.    Add  grad- 
ually the   cream   or  milk,  and  season  to 
taste   with   salt  and   pepper,   using  white 
pepper.     Add     the     grated     nutmeg     and 
minced     herbs.     Mix     thoroughly,     drain 
through    a    sieve,    form    into    little    balls, 
and  use  when  needed. 

Grab   Forcemeat. 

Quenelles   des  Crabes. 
The  Meat  of  12  Crabs.    1   Onion. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour.    1-2  Teaspoon- 
ful of  Salt. 
1   Teaspoonful   of   White   Pepper. 
A    Dash    of   Cayenne.    1   Clove  of  Garlic. 
12  Mushrooms,  if  desired. 
The  Tolks  of  3  Eggs. 
Chop    the    onion    very   fine   and   fry  in 
one  tablespoonful   of  butter  until  a  gol- 
den brown;   then  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour   and    moisten   with    a   quarter   of  a 
pint    of    water,    or    oyster    juice,    till    the 
sauce    begins     to     thicken    well;     season 
with  the  salt  and  pepper  and  a  dash  ot 
Cayenne.    Add  the  clove  of  garlic,  finely 
minced,    and    the    herbs.     Then    add    the 
crab  meat,  finelv  minced,  and  the  mush- 
rooms,  if  desired.     Cook  for  a  half  hour 
in   the   saucepan,    and   then   take  off  the 
fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.    Stir 
again   for  a  moment,   cool,  and  roll  into 
balls  and  use  as  desired. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 
SAUCES     FOB    FISH,     MEATS,    POULTRY,    GAME,    ETC. 

Des    Sauces    Pour    les    Poissons    des  Viandes,    la    Volaille.    le    Gibier,    etc. 


■  ■  The  Creoles,  like  therr  French  ances- 
tors, hold  that  the  three  mother  sauces, 
or  "Sauces  Meres,"  are  Brown  Sauce,  or 
"Sauce  Espagnole";  the  White  Sauce,  or 
"Sauce  Allemande,"  and  the  "Glace,"  or 
"Glaze."  These  are  the  foundation  of  all 
sauces,  and  upon  their  successful  making 
depends  the  taste  and  piquancy  of  the 
numberless  variety  of  fancy  sauces  that 
give  to  even  the  most  commonplace  dish 
an  elegatice  all  Its  own.  The  Creoles  are 
famous  for  their  splendid  sauces,  and  the 
perfect  making  of  a  good  sauce  is  con- 
sidered an  indispensable  part  of  culinary 
art  and-  domestic  economy.  The  fir.st 
thing  to  learn  in  making  sauces  of  ever>' 
kind  is  how  to  make  a  good  "Roux,"  or 
the  foundation  mixture  of  flour  and  but- 
ter, or  flour  and  lard.  We  have  tho 
Brown  Roux  and  the  White  Roux.  In 
making    a    Brown    Roux,    this    unfailing 


rule  must  be  the  guide;  Never,  under  any 
consideration,  use  burnt  or  over-browned 
flour. 

Brown  Bonx. 
Roux  Brun. 
1  Tablespoonful  Butter.  1  Tablespoonful 
Flour. 
In  making  the  roux.  which  is  the  foun- 
dation of  a  fancy  sauce,  melt  the  table- 
spoonful of  butter  slowly,  and  add  grad- 
ually the  flour,  sprinkling  it  in  and 
stirring  constantly,  till  every  portion  is 
a  nice,  delicate  brown.  Never  make  It 
too  brown,  because  it  must  continue 
browning  as  the  other  ingredients  are 
added  in  the  order  given  in  every  reclpo 
In  this  book.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to 
pile  ,all  ingredients,  one  after  anothel\ 
pell-mell,  into  a  dish,  in  the  course  of 
preparation.    The  secret  of  good  cooking 


101 


liea  in  following  implicitly  the  gradual 
introduotion  of  the  component  parts  in 
the  order  specified. 

■  In  making  a  roux  for  cooking  gravicb 
or  smothering  meats,  the  proportions  are 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  two  oi 
flour,  butter  always  making  a  richer 
gravy  than  lard,  and  sometimes  being  too 
rich  for  delicate  stomachs.  It  is  a  greai 
fad  among  many  in  our  day  to  use  notn 
Ing  but  butter  in  cooking.  The  Creoles 
hold  that  butter  should  be  used  in  its 
proper  place,  and  lard  in  its  own.  The 
lard  is  not  only  less  expensive,  but  is 
far  preferable  to  an  inferior  quality  or 
butter,  and  in  many  cases  preferable  to 
the  best  butter,  according  to  the  dish  in 
course  of  preparation.  Properly  made, 
the  taste  of  lard  can  never  be  detected, 
and  it  is  feared  that  butter  is  used  by 
many  to  cover  up,  by  its  taste,  the  de- 
ficiencies of  having  made  the  roux  im- 
properly. If  there  is  the  slightest  indi- 
cation of  burnt  odor  or  overbrowning, 
throw  the  roux  away  and  wash  the  uten- 
sil before  proceeding  lo  make  another. 
Remember  that  even  a  slightly  burnt 
sauce  will  spoil  the  most  savory  dish. 

White    Roux. 

Roux    Blanc. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.    1  Tablespoonful 
Flour. 

The  White  Roux  is  made  exactly  like 
the  BrOwn  Roux,  only  that  the  butter 
and  flour  are  put  simultaneously  into 
the  saucepan,  and  not  allowed  to  brown. 
It  is  then  moistened  with  a  little  broth 
or  boiling  water,  and  allowed  to  boil  a 
few  minutes  till  thick.  The  White  Roux 
is  the  foundation  of  all  white  sauces,  or 
those  containing  milk  and  cream.  It  id 
also  used  in  nearly  all  purees.  In  the 
Sauce  Veloute  it  should  be  colored. 

GI/AZi: 

Glace. 

5    Pounds    Rump    of    Beef.     5    Pounds    of 

Bones. 

2   Calf's   Feet. 

1  Large  Herb  Bouquet.     1  Stalk  of  Celery. 

3   Large   Carrots. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Glace  is  the  foundation  of  all  sauces 
for  roasts,  filets,  etc.  In  other  words, 
it  is  'LieWg's  Beef  Extract,  which  every 
housekeeper  may  make  and  keep  on  hand 
for  gravies  for  meats.  It  is  made  as  fol- 
lows: Roast  five  pounds  of  the  rump  of 
the-  beef.  Take  five  or  six  pounds  of 
bones  of  beef  and  two  calf's  feet.  After 
roasting  the  beef  well  and  brown,  but 
rare,  chop  it  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in 
a  pot  with  two  gallons  of  water.  Add  to 
this  the  bones  and  calf's  feet,  all  raw. 
Then  add  a  large  herb  bouquet,  and  one 
stalk  of  celery  and  three  large  carrots. 
Let  the  whole  come  to  a  boil.  As  the 
scum  rises  skim,  and  then  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  all  boil  til) 
reduced  to'  one  quart.  Strain  this,  and 
it  will  make  a  jelly  or  glace  whjai  cold: 
Do  not  add  any  flour  or  grease.  Tl^Jgoodi 
Creoles  cook  considers  it  little  short  of  a 
crime  to  add  flour  to  the  gravies  of  roast 
or  broiled  beef.  This  glace  is  then  used 
as  a  "demi-glace"  for  sauces  for  sweet- 
breads, when  they  are  prepared  in  sautes, 
filets  of  beef,  etc.  In  making  this  "demi- 
glace,"  take  one  tablespoonful  of  the 
glace,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  Madeira  or 
Sherry  wine.  It  should  always  be  a  light 
sauce.  Use  this  for  thickening  Sauce  Es- 
pagnole. .-  ■ 


Anchovy    Sauce. 
Sauce   auX    Beurre   d'Anchois. 

1  Tablespoonful    of    Anchovy    Butter. 

11-2  Tablespoonfuls  Flour. 
1 1-2   Tablespoonfuls   Butter. 

Make  a  White  Sauce  (see  recipe),  and 
add  to  this  a  tablespoonful  of  Anchovy 
butter,  "Which  comes  prepared.  Let  it 
melt,  season  to  taste  in  the  sauce,  and 
serve.  An  Anchovy  Sauce  may  be  either 
brown   or  white.     Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Apple  Saucce 

Sauce    JVIarmalade    de    Pommes. 

6  Large  Apples. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter.     4  Cloves. 
1  Stick  Cinnamon.     1  Cup  Water. 

Cut  the  apples  into  pieces,  peel  and 
let  them  boil  till  mashed  into  a  jelly, 
stirring  frequently,  to  prevent  burning-. 
Add  the  ground  cloves  and  the  stick  of 
cinnamon,  ground  fine.  Let  them  boil 
at  least  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  mash- 
ing as  they  become  tender.  Then  take 
off  the  fire  and  press  them  through  a 
coarse  sieve.  Add  sugar  to  taste,  add 
the  butter,  and  set  all  back  on  the  fire, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  five  minutes 
longer.  Set  to  cool  in  a  dish,  and  serve 
with  Roast  Pork  or  Roast  Goose.  The 
sauce  must  not  scorch,  or  the  taste  will 
be   spoiled. 

Bearnaise    Sauce. 
Sauce    Bearnaise. 

6  Shallots.  .  1-2  Clove   of  Garlic. 
1-2  Gill  of  French  Vinegar. 
1    Tablespoonful    Each    of    Flour   and 
Butter. 
Yolks  of  Four  Eggs. 
A    Grated    Nutmeg.     1-2    Lemon's    Juice. 
Glace. 
Chop  the  shallots  and  mince  the  garlic 
very    fine.     Blend    the    butter    and    flour, 
or    take    a    good    tablespoonful    of    Glace 
(see   recipe),    and    moisten    with   a   table- 
spoonful of  White  wine  and  good  white 
consomme,    till    you    have    about    a    pint. 
Set    on    the    stove,    in    a    porcelain-lined 
saucepan.    Add  the  pepper  and  salt  and 
butter,    and    a    quarter    of    a    teaspoonful 
of    grated    nutmeg.     Add    half    a    gill    of 
vinegar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  accord- 
ing  to    taste    and    acidity.     When    of    the 
consistency      approaching      starch,      take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,    beaten    well,    and    stirring    all    the 
time,   till  you   have  the   consistency   of  a 
thick     starch.     Serve     immediately,     with 
broiled  steak,  broiled  chops,  broiled  fish, 
etc. 

Bechamel    Sauce. 
Sauce   Bechamel. 

2   Ounce.'   of  Raw  Ham.     2  Fresh  Mush- 
rooms. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1    Pint    of    Veloute    Sauce.     2    Gills    Rich 
Cream. 
r.Sti^k  of  Celery,  Cut  Verv  Fine. 
L    JL-2  Carrot.  Cut  Very  Fine. 
1-Z  Onion,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 
1  Bunch  Sweet  Herbs.      2  Cloves.     4  All 
spice.     Blade  of  Mace. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  as  it 
melts   add   the  chopoed   onion,   and   let  it 
stew  until  very  tender,  but  do  not  let  it 
brown.     Mince  the  ham  and  cut  the  vege- 
tables verv  fine,  and   add  first  the  ham, 
letting  it  brown  a  minute,   and  then  the 
vegetables,     herbs     and     spices.     Let     ail 
simmer   gently   for   ten    minutes,   without' 
■browning.     Add   the  Veloutee   Sauce    (see 
recipe),,  stir   in  well,   and   bring   all   to   a 


102 


boll.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  and  be  sure 
to  stir  constantly.  Then  add,  by  gentle 
degrees,  the  cream,  which  should  not  be 
heated,  but  which  must  be  very  rich  and 
sweet  (if  not  perfectly  sweet  it  will  spoil 
the  sauce).  When  all  this  is  blended, 
the  sauce  is  of  a  velvet  smoothness,  and 
very  delicious.  Strain  and  set  on  the 
fire  a  minute  longer  to  heat,  and  serve 
hot.  It  is  served  with  fish,  chicken  and 
sweetbreads. 

Bordelaise    Sauce. 

Sauce  a,  la  Bordelaise. 

2  Shallots.     1-2  Glass  Claret. 

3-4   Pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole. 

A    Dash    of   Red    Pepper. 

Cut  two  shallots  very  fine;  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  half  glassful  of  Claret; 
reduce  one-half;  add  three-quarters  of  a 
pint  of  good  Sauce  ^Bspagnole  (see  re- 
cipe) and  a  dash  of  red  pepper.  Cook 
for  'twenty  minutes  and  serve  hot.  In 
serving'  this  sauce,  the  flavor  may  be  In- 
creased by  adding  a  dozen  round  slices 
of   blanched    Marrons. 

Bordelaise    Sauce,     Creole     Style. 

Bordelaise  Sauce  a  la  Creole. 

1  Onion  or  2  Shallots. 
1   Tablespoonful  of  Olive  Oil. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Peel    the    onion    or    shallots    and    chop 
fine.     Put  in  a  saucepan  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  olive  oil;  let  the  onion  saute 
well,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  tenderloin 
filets  or  sirloin  steaks  when  it  is  desired 
to  serve  these  a  la  Bordelaise     A  table- 
spoonful   of   Red   -wine  may  be   added   to 
the  sauce. 

Brown    Sauce 

Sauce  I^spagnole. 

1  Pound  of  Neck  or  Brisket  of  Veal. 

Bones    of    Beef. 
1  Gallon   of  Water.     2  Tablespoonfuls   of 

Lard. 
1-2  Can  Mushrooms  or  1-4  Can  Truffles. 

2  Carrots.     2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 
2  Cloves  Garlic.     1  Herb  Bouquet. 

1  Wineglass  of  Sherry. 

Take  a  good  quantity  of  bones,  place  in 
a  gallon  of  boiling  water,  and  make  a 
strong  consomme,  seasoning  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Take  a  piece  of  the 
brisket  or  neck  of  the  beef,  and  roast 
rare,  so  that  the  blood  spurts  out  when 
pricked  with  a  needle  After  roasting  cut 
it  in  pieces  of  about  one  inch  square. 
Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and 
three  of  flour,  and  brown  slightly,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  After  browning,  add 
the  water  of  the  consomme,  which  has 
been  reduced  to  about  half  a  gallon, 
pouring  it  in  slowly  and  stirring  con- 
stantly. Then  add  all  the  pieces  of  the 
roast  beef  which  you  have  cut.  Add 
three  carrots,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  one 
onion,  an  herb  bouquet  (tied  together  of 
thyme,  parsley  and  bay  leaf),  and  let  the 
whole  boil  well  two  hours,  stirring  every 
five  minutes  until  reduced  to  the  consis- 
tency of  starch.  Then  strain  well  through 
a  strainer  or  sieve,  season  to  taste,  and 
set  back  on  the  stove  to  cook  a  few  min- 
utes longer.  Taste,  and  if  sufficiently 
seasoned,  take  it  off  and  allow  it  W  get 
cool.  This  sauce  is  then  used  as  a  foun- 
dation sauce,  and  will  keep  for  at  least 
one  month  in  our  climate  of  New  Or- 
leans, if  put  in  a  cool  place  in  winter  or 
the  ice  box  In  summer. 

The  Brown  Sauce,  or  Sauce  Gspagnole 
is  made  by  taking  out  of  this  foundation 
sauce  one  tablespoonful  at  a  time,  and 
then  adding  one  wineglass  or  two  table- 


spoonfuls of  Sherry,  to  dissolve,  and  a 
half  pint  of  broth.  Set  it  to  boll  again, 
and  add  a  half  can  of  mushr6oms  or 
truffles,  as  desired.  It  is  used  for  all 
meats,  fish  or  fowl    served  hot. 

If  one  does  not  desire  to  keep  it,  and 
It  is  a  matter  of  economy  to  do  so,  It 
can  be  made  by  reducing  the  proportions 
for  the  dish  to  be  prepared,  simply 
browning  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
two  of  flour,  adding  at  the  right  ffme  a 
pint  of  boiling  broth,  and  Sherry  to  taste. 

Bro^n   Butter   Sauce. 

Sauce   aux    Beurre   Noir. 

1-4  Pound  of  Butter. 

2     Tablespoonfuls    of    Cut    Parsley     (not 

chopped). 

3   Tablespoonfuls   Juice  of   Lemon  or 

Vinegar. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and 
when  it  begins  to  smoke  it  is  browning. 
Then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cut  pars- 
ley, and  let  it  brown  half  a  minute 
longer.  Then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  Juice  of  a  lemon  or  Tarragon  Vine- 
gar, and  let  It  simmer  two  minutes  longer, 
and  serve  with  Stingaree  or  Rat  aux 
Beurre  Noir  (see  recipe),  calfs  brains 
or  crawfish  boiled. 

Bread   Sanoe. 

Sauce    de    Pain. 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Fresh  Bread  Crumbs. 
1-2   Cup    of   Cold    Water. 

1-2   Ounce    of   Butter. 
1  Cup   of  Cream  or  Milk. 

6  Whole  Peppers. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Crumble  the  bread  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  water;  add  the  butter, 
salt  and  peppers.  Cook  for  five  minutes 
and  add  the  milk.  Cook  five  minutes 
longer,  remove  the  peppers  and  serve  hot. 

Caper  Sauce. 

Sauce  aux  Capres. 

Make  a  White  Sauce,  as  above,  and  add 
a  half  cup  of  finely-cut  French  capers 
before  serving.  This  sauce  is  served  with 
boiled   mutton. 

Canliflower  Sauce. 

Sauce    aux    Choufleurs. 

For  this  sauce,  as  a  foundation,  first 
make  the  Cream  Sauce  (see  recipe),  and 
add  to  It  the  flowerets  of  the  cauliflower, 
which  you  will  have  previously  boiled 
till  tender,  and  cut  very  fine.  Serve  ^th 
boiled  fish,  veal  saute,  boiled  cauliflower, 
etc. 

Chambord   Sauce. 

Sauce  a  la  Chambord. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Large  Onion  Minced.  1  Sprig  of  Thyme. 

1    Bay    Leaf.     3   Large   Tomatoes. 

1   Truffle,   if  Desired. 

6  Thinly  Sliced  Mushrooms. 

1  Pint  Oyster  Water. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

2  Sprigs    of   Parsley.     2   Cloves,   Mashed. 

4  Allspice,  Ground. 
Brown  the  onion  In  the  butter,  but  do 
not  let  it  burn.  Add  three  largie  toma- 
toes, chopped  fine,  with  their  Juice  and 
the  finely-minced  herbs,  the  thinly-sliced 
truffles  and  mushrooms.  Let  these  brown 
well  for  about  ten  minutes.  Then  add 
the  pint  of  oyster  water,  and  season  to 
taste.  Add.  if  you  have  them,  three  or 
four  crawfish,  chopped  fine,  and  one 
dozen  oysters.     Let  all  bolt  twenty  min- 


103 


utes  longer,  and  season  to  taste.  Serve 
with  Baked  Red  Snapper  and  other 
baked   fish. 

Champagne  Sauce. 
Sauce  au  Champagne. 

1  Glass  of  Champagne.     2  Cloves. 

6  Whole  Peppers.    1  Bay  Leaf. 

3-4  of  a  Pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of    Powdered   Sugar. 

Put  the  Champagne,  cloves,  peppers, 
bay  leaf  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan;  set  on 
the  fire  .  and  reduce  for  five  minutes. 
Then  moisten  the  mixture  with  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole 
and  let  it  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  longer. 
Strain  well  and  serve. 

Chill  Sance. 

Sauce   au   Chili. 

6  Tomatoes.     4   Green  Peppers     1   Onion. 

1    Tablespoontul   of    Salt. 

1 1-2  Cups  of  Vinegar. 

Cayenne   and   Chili   Pepper   to   Taste. 

Boil  the  vinegar  and  add  the  chopped 

tomatoes    and     green     peppers     and     the 

minced  onion,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of 

sugar.     Let  all  boil  one  hour.     Season  to 

taste,  strain,  and  serve  with  any  ffsh  or 

meats. 

Cheetnut    Sauce. 
Sauce    aux    Marrons. 

1  Pint   of   Large    Roasted    Chestnuts. 

1  Pint  of  Boiling  Stock. 

1   Tablespoonful    Flour.     1   Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Roast  the  chestnuts,  and  peel  and  mash 
them  very  fine.  Make  a  Brown  Roux 
wltft  the  flour  and  butter,  and  add  the 
boiling  stock.  Let  it  boil  for  about  five 
minutes,  and  add  the  mashed  chestnuts; 
stirring  constantly,  and  seasoning  to 
taste.  Let  it  boil  for  two  minutes,  take 
off  and  serve  hot,  with  Broiled  Dindon- 
neau  (turkey  chicks).  This  is  a  great 
Creole  dish,  and  is  considered  a  most 
recherche  and  delicate  one.  The  sauce 
may  also  be  served  with  Roast  Turkey. 

Celery  Sauce. 

Sauce   au    Celeri. 

Mince  the  celery  well;  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  and  cover  with  boiling  water 
Let  it  boil  about  thirty  minutes,  until 
tender.     Then  make  a  Cream  Sauce. 

Colbert  Sance. 

Sauce    Colbert. 

1-2  Pint  of  Madeira  Sauce. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Consomme. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

The  Juice  of  Half  a   Lemon. 

Put  a  pint  of  very  thick  Madeira  Sauce 
(see  recipe)  in  a  saucepan,  add  gradually 
the  butter  and  consomme  and  mix  well 
without  allowing  the  mixture  to  boil 
When  ready  to  serve  add  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley. 

Cream    Sauce. 
Sauce    a    la    Creme. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.    1  Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

2  Gills   of  Fresh  Milk  or  Cream. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  saucepan,  and 
add  the  flour  gradually,  letting  it  blend 
without  browning  in  the  least.    Add  the 


boiling  milk  or  cream  and  stir  without 
ceasing.  Add  salt  and  white  pepper  to 
taste,  and  serve  immediately  with  boiled 
fish,  etc. 

Cranberry    Sauce. 

Sauce  aux  Airelles. 

Wash  the  cranberries  in  cold  water, 
and  pick  well,  rejecting  all  those  that 
float  on  top  or  are  in  any  manner  over- 
ripe and  spoiled.  Put  them  in  a  porce- 
lain-lined saucepan,  with  one  pint  of 
water,  and  let  them  boil  over  a  moderate 
fire,  stirring  occasionally  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  and  mashing  the  fruit  as  much  as 
possible.  Wihen  the  berries  have  cooked 
about  twenty  minutes,  remove  the  sauce- 
pan from  the  fire,  and  add  the  sugar, 
stirring  in  sufficient  to  sweeten  nicely. 
Let  them  cook  at  least  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  longer,  after  adding  the  sugar, 
and  put  Into  an  earthen  bowl,  and  let 
the  sauce  cool.  Never  strain  the  sauce. 
Many  do,  but  the  Creoles  have  found  out 
that  cranberry  Jelly  is  a  very  poor  and 
insipid  sauce,  compared  with  that  of  the 
whole  fruit,  when  formed  into  a  sauce 
in  an  earthen  mold.  Liquid  cranberry 
is  a  very  poor  apology  for  the  dainty 
crimson  mold   of  the  native   fruit 

Let  them  stand  at  least  overnight,  or 
twenty-four  hours,  in  a  cool  place,  before 
serving.  Serve  Cranberry  Sauce  with 
Roast  Turkey. 

Crapaudine    Sauce. 

Sauce    a    la    Crapaudine. 

1    Pint    of    Sauce    Piquante. 

8  Chopped  Mushrooms. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Dry    Mustard. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

Put  a  half  pint  of  very  light  Piquante 
Sauce  on  the  fire,  add  the  mushrooms, 
finely  chopped,  and  a  teaspoonful  oT  dry 
mustard,  which  has  been  well  diluted  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  Tarragon  vinegar. 
Let  the  sauce  boil  for  five  minutes,  and 
serve  hot. 

Creole    Sauce 

Sauce  a  la  Creole. 

2   Tomatoes.     6    Shallots. 

1  Chopped  Sweet  Pepper. 

1  Glass    Sherry.     Salt    and    Cayenne    to 

Taste. 
Make  a  Tomato  Sauce  quite  brown. 
(See  recipe.)  Add  the  chopped  shallots 
and  sweet  pepper,  and,  when  these  are 
browned,  add  one  wineglassful  of 
Sherry  wine,  seasoning  highly.  Serve 
with  meats. 

Cucumber    Sauce. 

Sauce    aux    Concombres. 

1  Nice,  Tender  Cucumber. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Prepared    Mustard. 
The    Tolks    of    One    Egg.     Seasoning 

to  Taste. 
Peel  and  grate  the  cucumber,  and  add 
the  mustard,  mixing  thoroughly.  Add 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  beaten  thoroughly.  This  is  a 
delicious   salad  dressing. 

Currant   Jelly    Sauce. 

Sauce   a    la    Gelee    de   Groseilles. 

1-2  Tumbler  of  Currant  Jelly. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter.     1  Gill  Water. 

1  Gill  of  Port  or  Madeira  Wine. 

Melt    the'   butter,    and    add    the    Jelly, 

blending  well,   and   then   add   the   gill   of 

wine   and   water.    Add   a   little   salt   and 

sugar  to  taste.     The  sauce  is  much  finer 


104 


when  made  of  wine  without  water,  but 
this  is  a  question  of  taste.  If  the  wine 
only  is  used,  double  the  proportions,  or 
according  to  taste.  This  sauce  is  servefl 
with  Venison  and  other  game. 

Drawn   Bntter   Sauce. 

Sauce    aux    Beurre. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter, 

1  Tablespoonful  Chopped  Parsley. 
Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
This  sauce  is  made  simply  by  melting 
,  butter  and  adding  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley.    Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  if  desired. 
It  is  used  as  a  garnish  for  broiled  meat 
fish,  chicken,  etc. 

Demi-'Glace. 

Demi-Glace. 

1    Pint    of    Sauce    Espagnole. 
1  Glass  of  Madeira  Wine. 

1  Glass  of  Mushroom  Liquor. 

1    Herb    Bouquet.    1    Teaspoonful    of 

Pepper. 

Salt  to   Taste. 

To  one  pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole  (see 
recipe)  add  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine  and 
a  glass  of  mushroom  liquor,  an  herb  bou- 
quet and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Care- 
fully remove  all  fat  and  set  on  the  fire 
and  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Strain  and 
use  when  needed.  This  sauce  is  used  in 
all  recipes  where  Madeira  Sauce  is  in- 
dicated as  a  foundation  sauce. 

Devil's   Sance. 

Sauce   a  la  Diable. 

1  Onion.     2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Pickle   a   Finger   Long.     1   Teaspoonful 

of  Mustard. 

2  Gills  of  Consomme.     Salt  and  Cayenne. 
1    Glass    of   Wihite   Wine.     Juice    of   a 

Lemon. 

Brown  the  onion  in  butter,  and  add  the 
two  cloves  of  garlic,  minced  very  fine. 
Wlien  brown,  add  one  pickle,  minced 
very  fine,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard prepared.  Then  add  two  gills  of 
consomme  and  one  glass  of  White  wine, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  allow  It  to 
cook  slowly.  Season  with  salt  and  hot 
pepper  (piment  fort),  and  serve  with  shell 
fish,  chicken,'  sweetbreads,  etc.  This  is 
a  hot  sauce. 

Duxelle  Sance 

Sauce  Duxelle. 

1  Pint  of  Madeira  Sauce. 
1-2  Glass  of  White  Wine. 
12    Mushrooms.     2    Shallots. 
1-2  Ounce  of  Beef  Tongue. 
1-2    Tablespoonful    of   Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Put  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  Sauce  and 
a  half   glass   of   White  wine   in   a  sauce- 
pan.    Add    the    mushrooms,    which    must 
be  chopped  very  fine.     Then  add  the  shal- 
lots,  which  will   have   also   been  chopped 
fine    and    browned    in    butter.     Let    this 
reduce  slightlv  and  add  half  an  ounce  of 
finely-chopped    cooked    beef   tongue.     Let 
all  boil  for  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 
Mee  Sauce. 
Sauce  aux   Oeuta. 

The  Yolks   of  3  Eggs. 

2  Chopped  Hard-Botled  Eggii. 

1  Bay  Leaf,  Minced  Pine.     1  Onion. 
6  Peppers. 
2     Tablespoonfuls     of  Flour.       2     Table- 
spoonfuls of  Butter; 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 
1  Pint  of  Veal  or  Chicken  Broth. 


Chop  the  onions  and  put  in  the  sauce- 
pan with  the  butter  and  bay  leaf.  Stir 
in  the  flour  to  thicken  and  moisten  with 
the  broth.  Mix  well,  and  add  the  nut- 
meg, and  salt  and  pepper  to  'taste.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately  with  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pour  gradually 
into  the  sauce,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after 
they  are  added.  Press  through  a  sieve, 
and,  when  ready  to  serve,  sprinkle  with 
two  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  minced  parsley. 

Ra.rd-'Egg    Sance. 

Sauce    aux    Oeufs    Durs. 

Make  a  "White  Sauce,  as  above,  and 
add  three  or  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped,  but  not  too  fine,  and  a  little 
finely-minced  parsley  as  a  garnish.  This 
sauce  is  served  with  boiled  fish  or  boiled 
chicken  or  other  fowl. 

Genoese  Sauce. 

Sauce    a   la    Genoise. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Flour, 

1  Glassful  of  Claret. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1-2  Pint  of  Water. 

Salt,    Pepper,    Nutmeg,    and    Allspice    to 

Taste. 

Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  stir  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  mis  - 
well  till  smooth.  Then  add  a  wlneglass- 
ful  of  Claret,  stirring  all  well.  To  this 
add  about  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little 
nutmeg  and  allspice.  Let  the  sauce  sim- 
mer and  reduce  to  about  one-half.  Add 
parsley  as  a  garnish  and  serve  with  boiled 
fish  or  boiled  meat. 

Oiblet  Sauce. 

Sauce   d'Abbattis. 

The  Turkey  Giblets.    1  Cup  of  Water. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Put  the  giblets  or  simply  the  gizzaid 
into  a  saucepan  and  cover  well  with  wa- 
ter. Let  them  simmer  as  long  as  the 
turkey  roasts,  then  cut  them  fine  and 
take  the  turkey  out  of  the  pan  on  which 
it  has  been  roasted.  Add  the  giblets  and 
stir  well,  and  then  add  a  cup  of  the 
water  in  which  the  giblets  have  been 
boiled.  Season  to  the  taste  and  serve  in 
a  sauce  dish,  pouring  over  the  dressing 
when  serving  the  turkey. 

Hollandaise    Sauce. 

Sauce   a    la   Hollandaise. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 

The   Juice   of  Half  a   Lemon.    Yolk  of  1 

Egg. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise  is  nothing  more 
than  a  Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  to  which  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  and  the  yolk  of  an  eg« 
have  been  added.  Melt  the  butter;  add 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  mix  well  and 
take  off  the  stove  and  add  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  well  beaten.  Add  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  beating  steadily. 
This  sauce  is  very  light,  and  as  soon 
as  removed  from  the  fire  is  served  hot 
with   the   fish. 

Horseradish  Sauce. 

Sauce  au  Raifort. 
3  Eggs.    1  Cup  of  Cream.     Grated  Horse- 
radish. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
%       1-2   Pint  of   Consomme   or  Broth 


105 


Grate  the  horseradish  in  sufficient 
quantity  for  use,  and  place  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  the  boiling  stoclt.  Let  it  boll 
about  ten  minutes,  or  less,  until  tender. 
Season  to  taste.  In  tho  meantime  rub 
the  eggs  in  a  bowl  with  the  cream,  beat- 
ing and  mixing  thoroughly.  Add  theie 
to  the  horseradish,  stirring  constantly, 
but  do  not  let  the  sauce  boil,  or  the 
horseradish  will  curdle.  Serve  with  roast 
meats  or  with  baked  fish. 

Hunters'    Sauce. 

Sauce  a  la  Chasseur. 

2   Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

3  Tomatoes.     2  Onions.     6  Mushrooms. 
1  Pint  of  Consomme. 

Put  the  flour  and  butter  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  blend  well;  then  moisten  with 
one  pint  of  consomme  or  water;  add 
the  chopped  tomatoes,  onions  and  mush- 
rooms and  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper;  add  an  herb  bouquet  and 
let  it  boil  for  an  hour;  before  serving 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  six  drops  of 
vinegar.  If  you  have  fresh  game  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  blood  may  be  added, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  this. 

Italian    Sauce. 

Sauce    a   I'ltalienne. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.     1  Tablespoonful 
Flour. 
8  Shallots,  Greens  and  White. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 
1-2  of  a  Lemon's   Juice.    1-2  Can  Mush- 
rooms. 
Consomme.     Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Cayenne  to  Taste. 

A  Sauce  a  I'ltalienne  may  be  either 
brown  or  white.  If  mushrooms  are  used, 
make  a  white  sauce — that  Is,  let  the  but- 
ter and  flour  blend  without  browning. 
Add  a  half  cup  of  consomme  and  a  half 
can  of  chopped  mushrooms,  the  white  of 
the  shallot  (chopped  very  fine),  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  If  a  brown  sauce, 
add  the  shallots  to  tho  butter  and  flour, 
which  you  will  have  browned,  using  the 
chopped  white  and  green  of  the  shallots. 
Then  add  a  half  pint  of  consomme,  and 
let  it  simmer  for  about  an  hour,  and 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  serve. 

The  white  sauce  is  used  for  fish,  the 
brown  for  meats.  Always  season  to 
taste. 

Financier   Sance. 

Sauce    a    la    Financiere. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

6    Stoned    Olives.     12    Mushrooms. 

1   Glass  of  Sherry   Wine. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

A  Dash   of   Cayenne. 

Melt  the  butter,  then  remove  from  the 
fire  and  add  the  flour.  Blend  with  a 
wooden  spoon  till  smooth.  Moisten  with 
one  pint  of  consomme  till  it  reaches  the 
consistency  of  cream.  Then  add  the 
.  chopped  mushrooms,  stoned  olives,  pep- 
per, salt  and  Cayenne.  Before  serving 
add  the  wine.     Serve  hot. 

Jolle    FUle    Sauce. 

Sauce  a.  la  Belle   Creole. 
The   Yolks   of   2   Hard-Bolled   Eggs. 

1-2  Cup  Bread  Crumbs: 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.    1-2  Cup  of 

Ore  3.111    "^^ 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 


Put  the  butter  into  the  saucepan,  and 
add  the  flour,  letting  it  blend  well,  with 
out  burning  or  browning,  for  this  is  a 
white  sauce.  When  it  becomes  a  deli- 
cate yellow  add  the  bread  crumbs,  stir 
for  one  minute,  and  add  the  half  ciip  of 
consomme  or  broth.  Stir  well,  and  a'dd  a 
half  cup  of  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Add  the  chopped  parsley  as  a 
garnish,  and  a  little  onion  juice.  Take 
off  the  fire  and  add  the  well-chopped 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  Serve  with  boiled  fish  or 
boiled  meats   of  any  kind. 

Lyonnaise    Sance. 

Sauce  a  la  Lyonnaise. 

1    Dozen    Tomatoes.     Equal    Parts    of 

Onions. 

1-2  Spoon  of  Butter.    -2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf, 

Minced    Fine. 

Sherry    to     Taste.      1     Tablespoonful    of 

Flour. 
Salt  and   Pepper  and   Cayenne   to   Taste. 

Make  a  good  Tomato  Sauce  (see  re- 
cipe) ,  and  add  to  this  the  equal  parts 
of  onion  browned  in  butter.  Stir  well, 
add  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  serve  wit!i 
any  meats. 

Madeira    Sance. 

Sauce    Madere. 

2    Gills    of    Espagnole    Sauce    or    Brown 

Sauce. 

1  Gill  of  Truffles,  Cut  in  Two. 

1  Gill  of  Mushrooms,  Cut  in  Two. 

1  Glass  of  Madeira  Wine. 

Make  a  Sauce  Espagnole  (see  recipe), 
and  let  it  boil  for  about  five  minutes. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  the 
mushrooms  and  truffles,  cut  in  pieces. 
3L«et  them  boil  for  ten  minutes,  and  then 
stir  in  the  wine.  If  you  have  not  the 
Madeira,  use  Sherry  wine.  Serve  witK 
Filet  of  Beef  Roasted,  etc. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Sance. 

Sauce    a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.     1  Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

The  Juice  of  1-2  a  Lemon. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley, 

1  Pint  of  Clear  Water. 

Put  the  butter  and  the  flour  in  the 
saucepan  and  let  them  blend  without 
burning.  Mix  well  over  a  slow^  fire,  and 
add  one  pint  of  consomme.  Add  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon  and  the  chopped  pars- 
ley, and  let  all  boil  about  fifteen  minutes. 
When  it  reaches  this  point  take  off  the 
stove  and  add  the  yolk  of  one  qse,  well 
beaten ;  mix  well,  stirring  round,  and 
serve  with  boiled  fish,  etc. 

Never  add  esE  while  the  sauce  is  on 
the  fire,  as  it  will  curdle  immediately. 

Mayonnaise   Sance. 

Sauce    Mayonnaise. 

Tolk  of  1  Egg. 
Sweet    Oil.     Lemon.    Vinegar, 
Pepper  and    Salt. 
Take   the   yolk   of  one  fresh   egg,   raw, 
and  put  in  a  bowl.     The  egg  and  the  oil 
must  be   cold,   and  in  summer  it  Is  well 
to    keep    the    soup    plate    in    which    you 
make   the   dressing   on    cracked   Ice   in   a 
pan,    so    that  the    oil   will    not  run.    Put 
the  yolk  in  a  plate;  add,  drop  by  drop,  a 
little    sweet    oil    from    the    bottle.     WTien 
you  have  dropped  about  a  spoonful,  be- 
ing careful   to  work   it  into   the   yolk  of 
the  egg,  drop  by  drop,  and  blend  all  the 
time,  take  a  lemon  and  drop  a  few  drops 


106 


into  the  mixture.  It  will  at  once  begin 
to  harden  as  you  stir  it  in.  Continue 
stirring  till  the  egg  grows  Hard,  and  then 
steadily,  drop  by  drop,  let  the  oil  fail, 
working  it  all  the  time  with  your  fork 
into  the  egg.  Have  another  spoon,  begin 
to  drop  in  the  lemon  juice,  working  it 
the  same  way  again,  till  it  hardens  the 
egg.  Then  begin  again  with  the  oil  and 
work  again,  and  again  drop  the  lemon  till 
you  have  the  juice  of  naif  a  lemon  and 
about  two  gills  of  oil,  finishing  with  the 
oil.  When  the  egg  begins  to  curdle,  add  a 
little  salt,  but  do  not  add  this  salt  till 
the  mayonnaise  is  complete.  Serve  very 
cold,  with  salads,  etc. 

Mushroom    Sauce. 

Sauce   aux   Champignons. 

1-2   Pint   of   Broth    (white)    or   Boiling 

Water. 

Lemon  Juice.     1  Can  of  Mushroms. 

1  Tablespoonful   Butter.     1  Tablespoonf  ul 

Flour. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Make  a  Brown  Roux,  melting  the  but- 
ter in  the  saucepan,  and  adding  the  flour, 
and  stirring  till  well  browned.  Then  stir 
in  the  boiling  stock,  or  water,  if  you 
have  not  the  stock;  add  the  mushrooms. 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  let  it  cook  for 
about  fifteen  minutes  longer.  This  is  a 
fine  sauce  for  Roast  Filet  of  Beef.  Pour 
the  sauce  over  the  filet,  and  serve  hot. 

Mint  Sance. 

Sauce    Menthe. 

1  Good   Handful   of   Mint,   Chopped   Very 

Fine. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Sugar. 

A  Pint  of   White   Beef   Stock. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Chop  one  good  handful  of  fresh  mint 
and  put  it  in  a  bowl;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  Tarragon  Vinegar  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  sugar.  To  this  add  one  pint  of 
good  white  beef  stock.  Mix  all  together 
and  place  in  a  bain-marie  or  hot-water 
bath — that  is,  stand  in  a  saucepan  of 
hot  water  on  the  fire  and  let  it  warm 
without  boiling.  If  the  mint  boils,  it  will 
be  very  bitter.     Serve  w^ith  roast  lamb. 

Norm^andy    Sauce. 

Sauce    <x    la    Normande. 

1  Pint  of   Sauce  Veloute. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Mushroom    Liquor. 

2   Tablespoonfuls    of   FisTi    Stock. 

The  Yolks    of  2  Eggs. 

The  Juice  of  Half  a  Lemon. 

Make  a  pint  of  Sauce  Veloute  (see 
recipe),  and  add  the  mushroom  liquor. 
Reduce  for  about  ten  minutes  and  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  Fish  Stock  or  Oys- 
ter Juice;  if  not  at  hand  add  hot  water. 
Let  it  all  boil  again,  and  then  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  fresh  butter  and 
serve  with  fish.  The  sauce  should  be  of 
the  consistency  of  cream. 

Onion    Sauce. 

Sauce    Soublse. 

8  Onions.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1  Tablespoonful   of   Flour.     Lemon  Juice. 

Boil  the  onions  until  quite  tender, 
adding  salt  and  pepper  When  soft  mash 
well  and  pass  throug  a  sieve.  Take  one 
spoon  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  and 
melt,  blending  together  without  burning 


or  allowing  to  brown,  in  this  cream  dis- 
solve the  puree  of  onions,  boiling  gently 
for  ten  minutes  and  stirring  well.  Add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  teaspoon  of  vine- 
gar, and  serve  with  cutlets  of  lamb, 
fried  sweetbreads,  etc. 

Oyster   Sauce. 

Sauce    aux    Huitres. 

2  Dozen  Oysters.     The  Oyster  Water, 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.     1  Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  oysters  in  their  own  water. 
Add  a  nice  herb  bouquet  while  boiling. 
Take  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one 
of  flour  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  and 
mix  well  without  browning;  water  this 
with  the  juice  of  the  oysters,  sufficient 
to  make  one  pint;  season  to  taste.  Let 
it  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  ana, 
when  it  reaches  a  thick  consistency,  servt 
with  freshly-added  oysters,  taking  Uie  old 
ones  out,  because  oysters  that  have 
boiled  more  than  three  minutes  are  unfit 
for  eating  being  hard  and  indigestible; 
or  the  sauce  may  be  served  without  the 
oysters.  This  is  a  sauce  for  boiled  fish, 
etc. 

Parsley   Cream   Sauce, 

Sauce    a    la    Creme    de   Persil. 

A    Tablespoonful    and    a    Half    of   Butter. 

A  Tablespoonful  and  a  Half  of  Flour. 

Half    a    Cup    of    Water    or    WTiite    Broth. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

To  the  recipe  for  White  Sauce  add  one 
tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  finely-minced 
parsley.  You  may  also  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  cream.  This  is  nice  with  boiled 
fish   or  boiled  chicken. 

Pepper  Sauce. 

Sauce   Poivrade. 

1  Carrot,  Minced  Fine. 
2  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1   Onion,  Minced  Fine 

1-2    Pint   of   Consomme.     1    Bay    Leaf. 

1  Wineglass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira. 

1-2     Grated     Lemon.      1     Small    Piece    of 

Celery. 

Salt  and   Black  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1  Tablespoonful   Butter.     1  Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

A   Dash    of    Cayenne. 

Put  the  butter  in  the  saucepan,  and,  as 
it  melts,  add  the  flour.  Let  it  brown 
slowly,  and  then  add  one  pint  of  Con- 
somme. Let  it  boil,  and  add  the  minced 
herbs  and  vegetables  and  the  zest  or 
outer  skin  of  half  a  grated  lemon.  (The 
zest  is  the  skin  of  a  lemon,  grated  off 
without  touching  the  inner  white  skin  or 
pulp.)  Let  all  boil  slowly  for  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Add  a  wineglassful  of  Sherry 
or  Madeira  and  season  with  salt  and 
black  pepper  (hot)  and  a  dash  of  Ca- 
yenne. Let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes  longer, 
take  off  the  stove  and  strain,  and  serve 
with  any  game. 

Pepper  Sauce  for  VenlBon. 

Sauce    Poivrade    pour   le   Chevreuil. 

1  Carrot,  Minced  Fine. 
2  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Onion,  Minced  Fine. 

1-2   Pint  of  Consomme.    1   Bay   Leaf. 

1  Wineglass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira. 

1-2     Grated     Lemon.     1     Small    Piece    of 

Celery. 

Salt  and   Black  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.     1  Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 


107 


This  sauce  Is  made  In  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  Sauce  Poivrade  (see  recipe) 
with  this  difference,  that  when  it  Is  to 
be  served  with  venison  a  half  glass  of 
Currant  Jelly  Is  added,  and  the  sauce  al 
lowed  to  boll  ten  minutes  longer. 

Pickle  Sauce. 

Sauce  aux  Comlchons. 

A  Tablespoonful  and  a  Half  of  Butter. 
A  Tablespoonful  and  a  Half  of  Flour. 
Half   a    Cup   of    Water   or   White    Broth 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
To  the  recipe  for  White  Sauce  (see  re- 
cipe) add  chopped  gherkins,  or  any  other 
vinegar  pickles,  using  about  two  or  three. 
Add,    just    before     serving.     Serve     with 
fish. 

Piquant    Sauce. 

Sauce    Plquante. 

2  Onions.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 

Leaf. 

2  Pickles,  2  Inches  in  Length. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Strong  French  Vinegar. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Cayenne  or  Hot  Pepper. 

Chop  two  onions  very  fine.  Smother 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  well 
cooked,  without  burning,  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  consomme  or  "water.  Add 
two  cloves  of  garlic,  minced  very  fine, 
and  the  herbs  minced  very  fine.  Season 
to  taste  with  hot  pepper.  Take  two 
pickles  about  two  inches  in  length,  and 
cut  into  thin  slices  of  about  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Put  this  into 
the  sauce,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  strong 
vinegar,  and  let  the  whole  boil  about  five 
minutes.  Serve  with  boiled  beef,  boiled 
beef  tongue,  boiled  porK  tongue,  of  any 
boiled  meats. 

Poulette   Sance, 

Sauce   a   la   Poulette. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.     1   Tablespoonful 
Flour. 
The  Tolks  of  2  Eggs. 
1   Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 
1-2  Pint  of  Consomme  or  Water. 
Juice   of  an    Onion.     Salt   and   Pepper   to 
Taste. 
The  Juice  of  Half  a  Lemon. 
Melt  the  butter  and  flour,  blending  well 
Without    browning.     Add   a    half    pint    of 
water,    or    consomme,    the    juice    of    one 
lemon,  and  let  it  simmer  twenty  minutes. 
Season  to  taste.    Take  from  the  fire,  add 
the   yolks    of    two    well-beaten    eggs   and 
the  juice    of   a   lemon,    and    serve   imme- 
diately. 

Kavlgote    Sance    (Cold). 
Sauce    Ra.vlgote. 

12  Shallots.     2  Cloves  of  Garlic.    1  Pickle. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Mustard. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  "Vinegar. 
The  Tolk  of  an  Egg. 

4  Sprigs  of  Chopped  Parsley. 
1  Sprig   Each    of   Thyme   and  Bay   Leaf. 

Chop  the  shallots,  greens  and  white, 
all  very  fine,  and  minbe  the  cloves  of  two 
garlics  very  fine.  Put  these  in  a  howl, 
and  add  one  pickle  of  about  three  Inches 
long,  chopped  very  fine;  drain  the  pickle 
first  of  all  water;  add  a  good  bunch  of 
parsley,  chopped  very  fine.  Mix  all  this 
together  in  a  bowl,  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  mustard.  Mix  well.  Add  a 
good  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an 
egg    and    mix    well    in.-  the    sauce.     This 


sauce    is    to    be    served    cold,    with    cold 
meats,  turkey  or  fowl. 

Bavlcote  Sance  (Hot). 

Sauce    Ravlgote. 

12  Shallots.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Vinegar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Chopped  ParslSV. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Chop  the  parsley  very  fine.  Have  ready 
a  "Sauce  Veloutee."  (See  recipe.)  Add 
the  other  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Place 
in  a  saucepan  and  set  In  boiling  water 
and  let  it  heat,  and  serve  hot  with  fish, 
white  meats  of  chicken,  etc. 

Sauee  Bemoulade. 

Remoulade  (Cold). 

3  Hard-Boiled  Eggs.     1  Raw  Yolk  of  Egg. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar. 
3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 

1-2  Clove  of  Garlic,  Minced  Very  Fine. 

1-2     Teaspoonful     of     Prepared     Mustard 

Salt    and    Cayenne   to    Taste. 

A  Remoulade  is  a  cold  sauce,  and  is  al- 
ways served  with  cold  me'ats.  Boil  tho 
eggs  till  hard.  Remove  the  shells  and 
set  aside  the  "white,  which  you  will  have 
crumbled  fine  for  a  garnish.  Put  the 
yolks  into  a  bowl,  mash  very  fine,  till 
perfectly  smooth,  add  the  mustard  and 
mix  well,  and  the  seasonings  of  vinegar 
and  salt  and  Cayenne  to  taste.  Then  add 
the  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop,  working  in 
the  egg  all  the  time,  and  then  add  the 
yolk  of  the  raw  egg,  and  work  in  thor- 
oughly, till  light.  Then  add  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Mix  well,  increasing  the 
quantities  of  oil  or  vinegar,  according  to 
taste,  very  slightly.  If  the  sauce  is  not 
thoroughly  mixed.  It  will  curdle.  It  is 
now  ready  to  be  served  with  cold  nieats, 
fish  or  salads. 

Green  Bemoulade. 

Remoulade  Verte. 
3  Hard-Boiled  Eggs.     1  Raw  Tolk  of  Egg. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 

1-2  Clove  of  Garlic,  Minced  Very  Fine. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  Prepared  Mustard. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
A  Green  Remoulade  is  made  in  exactly 
the  same  manner  as  the  above,  only  it  is 
colored  "with  the  juice  of  spinach  or  pars- 
ley, using  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
either. 

Robert    Sauce. 
Sauce  Robert. 

2  Onions.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 
1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and  Bay 
Leaf. 
2  Pickles,  2  Inches  in  Length. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Strong  F^nch  Vinegar. 
Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 
Cayenne  or  Hot  Pepper. 
Make    a    Sauce    Plquante    (see    recipe), 
and  add  a  teaspoonful  more  of  prepared 
mustard,  and  two  more  of  minced  pars- 
ley, the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let  it  boil 
up    once,    and    serve    with    steak,    pork 
chops,  liver  saute,  turkey  or  goose. 
Spanish  Sance. 
Sauce  Espagnole. 
1-4  Pound  of  Brisket  or  Veal. 
Bones  of  Beef. 
1    Quart    of    Water.     1    Tablespoonful    of 

Lard. 

1-2  Can  Mushrooms,  or  1-4  Can  Truffles. 

1  Carrot.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

2  Sprigs  Bach  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Lea. 

1  Wineglass  of  Sherry. 


108 


Take  a  good  quantity  of  bones,  place  In 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  make  a 
strong  consomme,  seasoning  well  witli 
salt  and  pepper.  Take  a  piece  of  tlie 
brisket  or  neck  of  the  beef,  and  roast 
rare,  so  that  the  blood  spurts  out  when 
pricked  with  a  needle.  After  roasting  cut 
it  in  pieces  of  about  one  inch  square. 
Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and 
three  of  flour,  and  brown  slightly,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  After  browning  add 
the  water  of  the  consomme,  which  has 
been  reduced  to  about  half  a  pint,  pour- 
ing it  in  slowly  and  stirring  constantly. 
Then  add  all  the  pieces  of  the  roast  beef 
which  you  have  cut.  Add  three  carrots, 
two  cloves  of  garlic,  one  onion,  an  herb 
bouquet,  tied  together,  or  thyme,  parsley 
and  bay  leaf,  and  let  the  whole  boil 
well  two  hours,  stirring  every  five  min- 
utes, until  reduced  to  the  consistency  of 
starch.  Then  strain  well  through  a 
strainer  or  sieve,  season  to  taste,  and  set 
back  on  the  stove  to  cook  a  few  minutes 
longer.  Add  one  wineglass  or  two  table 
spoonfuls  of  Sherry  to  dissolve,  and  a 
half  pine  of  broth.  Set  it  to  boil  agp,in, 
and  add  a  half  can  of  mushrooms  or 
truffles,  as  desired.  It  is  used  fSr  all 
meats,  fish  and  fowl,  served  hot. 
Sauce  Tartare. 
Sauce  a.  la  Tartare. 
A  Mayonnaise  Sauce.  6  Shallots. 
1-2  Clove  of  Garlic.  1  Pickle. 
A   Handful   of  Parsley,    Minced   Fine. 

1  Teaspoonful  Mustard. 
Prepare  the  Mayonnaise  as  directed 
above.  Put  in  a  bowl  a  half  dozen  shal 
lots,  greens  and  all,  and  chop  fine;  add 
a  handful  of  parsley,  chopped  fine;  and 
the  half-minced  clove,  and  one  whole 
pickle,  well  chopped.  Mix  all  this  to- 
gether and  put  in  a  cloth  and  strain  out 
the  juice  by  pressing.  Add  this  juice  to 
the  Mayonnaise,  and  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  mustard,  salt,  Cayenne  and  black  pep- 
per to  taste.  This  is  served  with  filet  of 
trout,    etc. 

ToDiato   Sauce, 

Sauce    aux    Tomates. 

1  Dozen  Tomatoes. 

1-2  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.     2  Cloves  of 

Garlic. 
1  Sprig  Each  of  Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf, 
Minced  Fine. 
Sherry  to  Taste. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 
Salt  and  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
Take  one  dozen  large  tomatoes,  or  one 
can,  and  put  in  a  pot  to  boil,  with  one- 
half  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  one  pint  of  wa- 
ter. Let  it  cook  for  about  ten  minutes 
and  add  minced  thyme,  parsley  and  bay 
leaf,  very  fine,  and  two  cloves  of  garlic, 
minced  fine.  Let  it  boil,  and,  when  well 
"boiled,  take  from  the  fire  and  mash 
through  a  sieve,  reducing  to  a  pulp 
Take  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  put  in 
a  saucepan,  and  add  a  half  spoon  of 
flour.  When  it  blends- and  browns  nice- 
ly add  the  tomato  juice,  season  nicely  to 
taste,  and,  when  ready  to  serve,  add 
chopped  parsley  as  a  garnish.  Serve  with 
meat,  fish  or  game. 

Veloute  Sauce. 

Sauce    Veloutee. 

8  Ounces  Butter,  or  1  Tablespoonful  and 

a    Halt. 

1  Tablespoonful  and  a  Half  of  Flour. 

2  Gills   of  Water. 

The   Well-Beaten   Tolks   of   2  Eggs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Juice  of  a  Lemon. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 


Blend  the  flour  and  butter  as  in  Wiite 
Sauce,  only  letting  it  become  sllghlly 
yellow.  Add  by  degrees  the  boiling  water 
and  season  to  taste.  A  Tablespoonful  of 
White  wine  is  a  fine  addition.  Add  the 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  chopped  parsley.  Let  it  simmer 
for  about  ten  minutes,  and  take  frona  the 
fire,  and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Serve  immediately  w^ith  any 
boiled   fish   or   meats. 

Vinaigrrette  Sance. 

Sauce   Vinaigrette. 

12  Shallots.     2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Vinegar. 

5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Oil. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Mix  all  together  as  in  a  Sauce  Ravi- 
gote,  cold  (see  recipe),  and  add  the  oil 
and  vinegar;  serve  cold,  with  cold  boiled 
meat,  cold  boiled  fish,  etc. 

White  Sance. 

Sauce    Blanche. 

A  Tablespoonful  and  a  Half  of  Butter. 

A    Tablespoonful    and    a   Half    of   Flour. 

Half  a  Cup  of  Water  or  White  Broth. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Blend  the  flour  and  butter  in  the  sauce- 
pan without  bro-wning  in  the  least.  Add 
by  degrees  the  boiling  water  or  White 
Consomme  of  veal  or  chicken,  stirring 
until  smooth,  and  boiling  three  minutes. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.  If  the  sauce  Is  to  have 
other  ingredients,  this  is  the  foundation 
for  them.  It  must  be  of  the  consistency 
of  thick  starch  to  begin  with,  in  the  lit- 
ter case. 

German    Sauce. 

Sauce  Allemande. 

4  Pounds  of  Raw  Veal. 
The  Bones   of  a  Chicken. 
1  Gallon   of  Water.    1  Carrot.    1  Turnip. 
Celery  Tops. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
2   Spoonsful   of   Lard. 
1  Herb  Bouquet  of  Thyme,  Parsley,  Bay 
Leaf. 
1  Stalk  of  Celery.     2  Long  Carrots. 
1    W^ineglassful    of    Madeira    or    Sherry 
Wine. 
Take    the    veal    and    the    bones    of    the 
chicken  and  put  into  a  pot  with  a  gallon 
of    water.     Add    the    herb    bouquet,    tied 
together,    and    one    chopped    carrot,    one 
turnip,    chopped,    celery    tops,    and    other 
ingredients   of  a   good  "pot-au-feu."    Let 
all  boll  slowly  for  three  hours  until  it  is 
reduced   one-half      Then  salt   and  pepper 
to  taste.     This  will  give  a  white  broth  or 
consomme    blanc.     When    boiled    to    this 
point    take    off    the    fire    and    strain   the 
broth   into    a   jar.    Now   take   two  table- 
spoonfuls   of   butter    and    three    of    flour, 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  together,  letting 
the     butter     and     flour     blend,     without 
browninsr.     Add    all    the    broth    to    this, 
stirring  slowly  while  on  the  fire.    Add  a 
good,    strong    bouquet    of    herbs,    thyme, 
parsley  and   bay  leaf,  all  tied  whole  to- 
gether.    Add    two    large    carrots,    and   let 
It    boil    till    reduced    to    one-half    again. 
After  it  has  reduced,  season  to  taste,  and 
when   It   has   reached   the   consistency  of 
starch  take  off  the  fire  and  strain,  and 
let  it  get  cool.    This  sauce  is  used  for  ail 
white    meats    and    fish.     WTien    used   for 
fish  take  one  tablespoonful  an^  moisten 
with    a    little    fish    broth.    Add    a   wine- 


109 


glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira,  and  set  on 
the  fire  to  heat,  and  add  a  pint  of  con- 
somme or  broth.  This  sauce  AUemande 
will  keep  at  least  one  month  in  our  clim- 


ate, in  the  ice  box.  If  one  prefers  to 
make  it  as  needed,  follow  the  propor- 
tions of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
of  flour,  and  one  pint  of  boiling  broth. 


CHAPTER  XXn. 
8AI,ADS. 

Des  Salades 


The  Creoles  have  always  been  famous 
for  the  excellent  salads  which  grace 
their  tables.  Salad,  like  soup,  or  gumbo, 
is  the  daily  accompaniment  of  dinner  in 
even  the  most  humble  Creole  home.  They 
hold,  one  and  all,  that  a  good  salad  is  a 
most  delightful  dish,  but  a  poor  one  is 
worse  than  none  at  all. 

The  old  Spanish  proverb  that  "to  make 
a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  miser 
for  vinegar,  a  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  wiss 
man  for  salt  and  a  madcap  to  stir  ail 
these  ingredients,  and  mix  them  well  to- 
gether," still  holds  as  the  unfailing  Cre- 
ole rule  in  making  a  good  salad.  The 
reason  is  clear.  For  the  dressing  of  the 
salad  should  be  saturated  with  the  oil. 
before  the  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  are 
added.  Results  have  proven,  however, 
where  the  salad  is  dressed  in  the  bowl, 
that  there  can  never  really  be  too  much 
vinegar,  for,  from  the  specific  gravity 
of  vinegar,  compared  to  the  oil,  what  is 
useless  will  fall  to  the  bottom  of  the 
bowl.  By  dissolving  the  salt  in  the  vine 
gar,  instead  of  the  oil,  too,  it  becomes 
more  thoroughly  distributed  throughout 
the  salad.  But  this  will  not  hold  where 
each  makes  his  own  salad  dressing  at  ta- 
ble, as  is  common  in  Creole  families. 

The  simple  French  Dressing  for  salads 
Is  always  the  best  for  daily  use,  and 
also  for  formal  dinners.  It  is  not  only 
lighter,  as  compared  to  the  Mayonnaise 
Dressing,  and,  therefore,  far  more  ac- 
ceptable at  dinners  where  the  courses 
are  many,  but  the  Creoles  hold,  like  the 
French,  that  it  is  the  only  dressing  for 
salads  that  are  not  intended  for  lunch- 
eons or  teas,  such  as  chicken,  shrimp  or 
crab  salads.  A  Mayonnaise  Dressing  for 
salad  should  never  be  used  at  the  family 
dinner  or  formal  dinings. 

Plain  French  DresBing   for   Salads. 

Assaisonment  Frapcais. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  the  Best  Olive  Oil. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Vinegar,  According  to 

1-4   Teaspoonful   of    Salt. 
1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Black  Pepper. 

First  put  the  oil  into  a  small  bowl. 
Then  add  gradually  the  salt  and  pepper 
until  all  are  thoroughly  mixed  Then  add 
gradually  the  vinegar,  stirring  contin- 
ually for  about  a  minute.  It  is  now  ready 
to  pour  over  the  salad,  and  remember 
that  it  must  be  mixed  thoroughly.  The 
proportion  of  vinegar  varies  according 
to  the  salad  to  be  dressed.  Lettuce  salad 
requires  but  little;  tomato  salad,  corn 
salad  or  Doucette  require  more.  Serve 
this  dressing  with  lettuce,  tomato,  onion, 
cucumber  and  other  vegetables  and  green 
salads. 

French  Dressing — No,  Z. 

Assaisonment    Francais. 

3   Tablespoonfuls   of   Oil. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

A  Saltspoon  Sach  of  Black  Pepper  and 

Salt. 

Chopped   Onion  and   Parsley.    ' 

The    juice    of    Half    an    Onion. 


Mix  these  in  the  order  given  above, 
adding  the  onion  juice  and  parsley,  well 
chopped,  last.  This  is  a  more  elaborate 
French  dressing.  Serve  with  the  same 
salads  as  above.  The  oil  may  be  omit- 
ted for  those  who  do  not  like  it,  but  it 
will  be  no  longer  in  either  of  these  re- 
cipes a  French  Dressing.  The  Creoles 
hold  that  the  oil  is  a  very  healthy,  di- 
gestible  and  essential  ingredient. 

Mustard  Dressing, 

Assaisonment   -a   la    Moutarde. 

1  Tablespoonful    of   Vinegar. 

1   Teaspoonful   of   Prepared   Mustard. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 
The   Tolk    of   1    Egg,    if   Desired. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Blend  the  mustard  and  the  oil,  adding 
the  latter,  drop  by  drop  at  first,  and 
then  proceeding  more  confidently.  When- 
ever the  dressing  appears  to  be  curdling, 
add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  and  work 
rapidly  till  it  becomes  smooth  again.  Add 
the  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  the  dress- 
ing is  finished,  use  it  for  celery  salad, 
fish,  tomatoes,  potatoes,  etc.  If  the  oil 
appears  to  separate  from  the  other  in- 
gredients, it  can  always  be  rubbed  into 
them  smoothly  again  by  adding  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar.  In  all  these  salads  the 
question  of  oil  and  its  measurements  can 
only  be  approximated.  Good  judgment 
must  always  be  the  final  test. 

Creole  French  Dressing. 

Assaisonment  a  la  Creole. 

3   Tablespoonfuls    of   the   Best    Olive    Oil. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Vinegar. 

1  Teaspoonful  Mustard. 

The  Tolk  of  a  Hard-Boiled  Egg. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Blend  the  oil  and  salt  and  pepper  in 
the  manner  above  indicated,  and  then 
add  these  to  the  mustard,  drop  by  drop, 
alternating  with  the  vinegar.  When  well 
blended  add  the  well-mashed  yolk  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg.  Stir  well,  and  serve  with 
lettuce,  celery  or  potato  salad. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Sauce  Mayonnaise. 

Tolk    of   1    Egg. 

Sweet    Oil.     Lemon.    Vinegar. 

Pepper  and  Salt. 

Take  the  yolk  of  one  fresh  egg,  raw 
and  put  it  in  a  bowl.  The  egg  and  the 
oil  must  be  cold,  and  in  summer  it  is 
well  to  keep  the  soup  plate  in  which  you 
make  the  dressing  on  cracked  ice  In  a 
pan,  so  that  the  oil  will  not  run.  Put 
the  yolk  in  a  plate;  add,  drop  by  drop,  a 
little  sweet  oil  from  the  bottle.  WTien 
you  have  dropped  about  a  spoonful,  be- 
ing careful  to  work  it  into  the  yolk  of 
the  egg,  drop  by  drop,  and  blend  all  the 
time,  take  a  lemon  and  drop  a  few  drops 
into  the  mixture.  It  will  at  once  begin 
to  harden  as  you  stir  it  In.  Continue 
stirring  till  the  egg  grows  hard,  and  then 
steadily,  drop  by  drop,  let  the  oil  fall, 
working  it  all  the  time  with  your  forlt 
into  the  egg.  Have  another  spoon,  begin 
to  drop  in  the  lemon  juice,  working  it  the 
same  way  again  till  it  hardens  the  egg. 


110 


Then  be^n  again  with  the  oil  and  work 
ag:ain,  and  again  drop  the  lemon  till  you 
have  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  about 
two  gills  of  oil,  finishing  with  the  oil. 
When  the  egg  begins  to  curdle,  add  a 
little  salt,  but  do  not  add  this  salt  till 
the  Mayonnaise  is  complete.  Serve  very 
cold,  with  salads,  etc. 

Mayonnaise  is  the  standing  sauce  for 
chicken  salad,  shrimp  salad,  crab  salad, 
etc.  When  making  for  these  large  salads, 
as  a  garnish  use  three  yolks  of  eggs  and 
other  ingredients  in  proportion. 

Bemonlade  Dressinff. 

Sauce     Remoulade. 

3  Hard-Boiled  Eggs.     1  Raw  Yolk  of  Egg 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oif. 
1-2  Clove  of  Garlic,  Minced  Very  Fine. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Prepared  Mustard.  - 

Salt    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

A  Remoulade  is  a  cold  sauce,  and  is 
always  served  with  cold  meats.  Boil  the 
eggs  till  hard.  Remove  the  shells  and  set 
aside  the  whites,  ■which  you  will  have 
crumbled  fine  for  a  garnish.  Put  the 
yolks  into  a  bowl,  and  mash  very  fine, 
till  perfectly  smooth.  Add  the  mustard, 
and  mix  well,  and  the  seasonings  of 
vinegar  and  salt  and  Cayenne  to  taste. 
Then  add  the  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop, 
working  in  the  egg  all  the  time,  and  then 
add  the  yolk  of  the  raw  egg,  and  work 
In  thoroughly,  till  light.  Then  add  the 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix  well,  in- 
creasing the  quantity  of  oil  or  vinegar, 
according  to  taste,  very  slightly.  If  the 
sauce  is  not  thoroughly  mixed  it  will 
curdle.  It  is  now  ready  to  be  served 
with  cold  meats,  fish  or  salads. 

Vinaigrette  Dressing. 

Sauce   Vinaigrette. 

12  Sha;llots.     2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Vinegar. 
5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Oil. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Mix  all  together,  as  in  a  Sauce  Ravi- 
gote,  cold  (see  recipe),  and  add  the  oil 
and  vinegar;  serve  cold,  with  cold  boiled 
meat,  cold  boiled  fish,  etc. 

Anchovy    Salad. 

Salade    d'Anchois. 

1   Box    of   Anchovies. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Cut  the  sardines  into  pieces  of  about 
an  Inch  in  length.  Season  nicely  with  a 
French  Dressing,  and  serve.  This  is  jl 
delicious    luncheon    dish. 

Artichoke    Salad. 

Artiohauts   en   Salade. 

I    Pint    of    Cold    Boiled    Jerusalem    Arti- 
chokes. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Vinegar. 
1  Teaspoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 
French   Dressing. 

Boll  the  Artichokes.  (See  recipe.)  When 
cold,  peel  them  and  cut  Into  quarters. 
Add  chopped  parsley  and  the  French 
dressing;  mix,  and  serve  very  cold. 

Tips  of  Asparagns   Salad. 

Polntes  d'Asperges  en  Salade. 

1  Pint  of  Asparagus  Tips. 

A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Boll  the  Asparagus  tips.  (See  recipe.) 
When  cold,  place  on  a  dish  and  ^rnlsh 
nicely.  Serve  very  cold,  with  French 
Dressing. 


Bean  Salad. 

Salade  d'Haricots. 

1  Pint  of  Cold  Beans. 
Vinaigrette  Sauce. 
This  Is  a  nice  way  of  utilizing  cold  left- 
over red    or   white   beans.     Serve   with   a 
Vinaigrette   Sauce.     (See  recipe.) 
Beet    Salad. 
Salade    de   Beteraves. 
4  Large  Red  Beets.     French  Dressing. 
Boil  the  beets  till  done,  and  then  peel 
and    slice    nicely.     Set   them   to   codl  and 
pour  over  them  a  French  Dressing  or  a 
plain   dressing  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pep- 
per.    This  is  a  nice  spring  or  winter  salad 
in  New  Orleans. 

Cauliflower    Salad. 

Choufleur  a   la  Vinaigrette. 

1   Pint  of  Boiled  Cauliflower. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1   Teaspoonful   of   Tarragon   Vinegar. 

A    French    Dressing    (plain). 

Boil  the  cauliflower  as  directed.  (See 
recipe.)  Then  separate  the  flowerets;  mix 
them  with  parsley,  and  cut  the  remain- 
der very  fine  and  mix  also.  Let  it  cool. 
Serve  with  a  French  Dressing,  after  add- 
ing first  an  extra  teaspoonful  of  Tarra- 
gon vinegar.  This  is  a  famous  and  very 
popular  Creole  way  of  serving  cauli- 
flower. 

Celery   Salad. 

Salade  de  Celeri. 
1  Pint  of  Crisp  French  Celery. 
2  Hard-Boiled  Eggs.  French  Dressing. 
Cut  the  celery  into  pieces  of  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch.  Chop  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  not  too  fine,  and  mix  well 
with  the  chopped  celery.  Blend  all  with 
French  Dressing  and  serve.  This  is  a 
delicious  salad. 

Celery     Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise  de  Celeri. 

1  Pint  of  Crisp  White  Celery. 
A  Mayonnaise  Sauce. 
Chop  the  celery,  or,  rather,  cut  fine,  aa 
Indicated  In  the  above  recipe.  Mix  the 
Mayonnaise  with  it.  Garnish  nicely  with 
celery  tips  and  serve.  The  mustard 
dressing  is  even  nicer  than  the  Mayon- 
naise for  this  salad. 

Chervil   Salad. 

Salade  de  Cerfeuil. 

1   Pint   of  Chervil. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Chervil  is  a  delicious  salad  herb,  much 
affected  by  French  and  Creole  gourmets. 
It  Is  served  cut  fine  between  bits,  In  the 
same  manner  as  Lettuce  Salad,  with  a 
French    Dressing. 

Chicken   Salad. 

Mayonnaise   de   Volallle. 

1  Pint  of  Cold  Boiled  Chicken. 

1-2  Pint  of  Mayonnaise  Sauce. 
1  Head  of  Crisp  Fresh  Lettuce. 
Cut  the  chicken  Into  small  dice.  Chop 
half  of  the  lettuce  very  fine,  and  sealon 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  bed 
of  the  remainder  of  the  lettuce  leaves, 
and  place  first  a  layer  of  the  chicken 
and  then  of  the  lettuce,  until  you  have 
used  all.  Spread  the  Mayonnaise  Sauco 
over  the  top  nicely,  and  garnish  prettily 
with  slices  of  cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 
beets,  celery  tips,  etc.  For  chicken  and 
celery    salad    follow    the    recipe    for   Vo- 


Ill 


lallle  en  Salade,  given  under  the  heading 
of  "Poultry."  (See  recipe.)  Left-over 
chicken  may  be  utilized  in  either  of  these 
salads. 

Grab   Salad  a  la  Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise  de  Crabes. 

1  Pint  of  the  Mteat  of  Crab    (hard  shell). 

Mayonnaise. 

Hard-Boiled     Eggs.     Garnishes. 

Boil  and  pick  crabs  sufficient  to  give 
a  pint  of  meat.  (See  recipe  for  Boiling 
Crabs.)  Season  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Place  in  a  dish,  on  a  bed  of  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  spreading  over  them  the 
Mayonnaise  Sauce,  and  garnish  nicely 
with  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  beets  and 
tips   of   celery. 

Crawfish    Salad. 

Mayonnaise   d'Ecrevisses. 

3  Dozen  Crawfish. 
A  Sauce  a  la  Mayonnaise. 

Boil  the  crawfish,  pick  the  meat  out 
of  the  shells,  heads  and  tails,  break  them 
into  pieces,  and  prepare  in  exactly  tiie 
same  manner  as  Shrimp  Salad. 

Cress  Salad. 

Salade  de  Cresson. 

Cress.     Vinegar.     Salt  and  Pepper. 

Prepare  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
lettuce,  washing  and  bringing  to  the  ta- 
ble firm  and  crisp.  In  this  salad  use  for 
dressing  only  Tarragon  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

Cucumber    Salad. 

Salade    de    Concombres. 

2  Fine  Cucumbers. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Wash  and  slice  two  nice  young  cucum- 
bers, and  use  a  plain  dressing  of  vinegar, 
salt  and, pepper.  This  is  a  very  delicious 
salad.  There  are  many  so-called  elegant 
novelties  introduced  lately  in  the  way  of 
serving  cucumbers,  such  as  stuffed  cu- 
cumbers, fried  cucumbers,  etc.  The  Cre- 
oles look  with  disdain,  and  justly,  on 
these  silly  innovations  in  the  serving  of 
a  vegetable  which  nature  Intended  to  be 
used  for  salad  purposes,  and  nothing  else. 

Corn   Salad. 

Salade    de    Maches,    ou    Doucette. 

1  Pint  of  Corn  Salad. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

This  is  an  excellent  salad,  and  is  pre- 
pared and  served  with  a  French  Dressing 
Take  one  pint  of  fresh  Doucette  and  pare 
off  the  outer  stale  leaves,  if  there  are 
any;  cut  off  the  roots.  Wash  the  Dou- 
cette well  in  two  waters,  drain  in  a  nap- 
kin and  place  in  the  salad  bowl.  When 
ready  to  serve  add  a  plain  French  Dress- 
ing, but  not  before.  Mix  well,  so  that 
every  portion  will  be  impregnated  with 
the  dressing.  Serve  very  cold.  A  gar- 
nish of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  or 
cut  in  quarters,  or  of  two  medium-sized 
beets,  which  may  be  added  both  for  taste 
and   effect. 

Bandelion    Salad. 

Salade    de    Dent-de-Llon. 

1  Pint  of  Fresh  White  Dandelion. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Cut  off  the  roots  and  green  portion  of 
the  leaves:  wash  and  steep  in  salt  and 
water.  When  they  become  crisp,  drain 
and  press  dry;    rub  the  salad  bo^wl  with 


a  clove  of  garlic  and  season  the  dande- 
lions with  French  Dressing.  This  salad 
may  also  be  served  with  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  quarters  or  sliced  and  laio 
over;  or  with  two  medium-sized  beets, 
sliced,  and  seasoned  with  a  plain  Frenc'i 
Dressing. 

Bndive   Salad. 

Salade    de    Chicoree. 

1  Pint  of  Endives.     French  Dressing. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Chervil,  Chopped  Very 

Fine. 

Prepare  the  endives  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  the  lettuce.  When  ready  to  serve, 
add  the  chervil  and  the  French  Dressing. 
If  endives  stand,  like  lettuce,  they  will 
wilt  after  being  dressed.  Serve  imme- 
diately. 

Fish   Salad. 

Salade   de   Poisson   a   la   Mayonnaise. 

1  Pint  of  Cold  Boiled  Fish. 

1    Head    of    Lettuce.     Mayonnaise    Sauce. 

Use  cold  boiled  left-over  fish,  picking 
nicely  into  bits  of  about  an  inch  and  a 
half  square.  Follow  the  same  directions 
as  in  the  above  recipes,  only  do  not  mix 
lettuce  and  fish  in  layers.  There  is  noth- 
ing nicer  than  a  fine  fish  salad. 

Green  Pepper  Salad. 

Salade  de  Piments  Doux  a  la  Creole. 

4    Tomatoes.     2    Green    Peppers.    1    Large 

Onion. 

French  Dressing,  Plain. 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  onion  and  green 
peppers  nicely  and  thin,  arrange  on  a 
dish,  placing  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  an  al- 
ternate layer  of  onion  and  green  pepper 
and  tomatoes  mixed.  Dress  either  before 
bringing  to  the  table,  or  at  the  table, 
with  French  Dressing.  This  is  a  great 
Creole  family  salad,  and  a  very  healthy 
one. 

Green    Peppers    a    rEspagrnole. 
Piments   Verts    en    Salade    a   I'Espagnole. 

6  Green  Peppers.     3  Tomatoes. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Parboil  the  peppers  so  that  they  will 
peel  easily,  and  scald  the  tomatoes.  Peel 
them,  removing  the  seeds  of  the  peppers. 
Cut  the  peppers  into  one-inch  pieces,  slice 
the  tomatoes,  and  serve  with  plain 
French   Dressing  as   a.  salad. 

Ijentil  Salad. 

Salade    de    Lentilles. 

1  Pint  of  Lentils. 
A  Viinaigrette  Sauce   fsee  recipe). 

Lentils  are  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  Bean  Salad  (see  recipe),  and 
served  with  Vinaigrette  Sauce.  They 
make  a  cheap,  excellent  and  healthy 
salad. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Salade  de   Laitue. 

3  Heads  of  Lettuce. 

French  Dressing.     2  Eggs. 

Take  fresh,  crisp  lettuce  of  sufficient 
quantity  for  the  number  to  be  served, 
three  young  heads  being  enough  for  six. 
Dip  in  cold  water,  examining  each  leaf, 
and  pick  over  carefully,  and  select  the 
fresh,  crisp  leaves.  Place  all  these  in  a 
salad  bowl,  and  garnish  nicelv  with  sliced 
hard-boiled  egg.  Never  dress  the  lettuce 
before  bringing  to  the  table.  The  vinegar 
causes  the  leaves  to  wilt  utterly,  and 
takes  away  all  the  relish  which  one  ex- 
periences  from  looking  at  a  fresh,   crisp 


112 


dish,  and  also  spoils  a  fine  table  garnish. 
Bring  to  the  table,  and  let  the  sauce,  al- 
ways a  plain  French  Dressing  or  Creole 
Dressing  preferred,  be  made  at  the  table. 
Generally  each  makes  the  dressing  to 
suit  himself  or  herself,  using  proportions 
of  greater  or  lesser  quantity  than  those 
mentioned  in  the  recipe.  If  one  person 
dresses  the  salad  for  the  table,  use  the 
proportions  given  above  in  any  of  the 
French  salad  dressings  for  this  amount 
of  lettuce.  This  is  one  of  the  nicest  and 
most  refreshing  as  -well  as  one  of  the 
healthiest  of  all  salads. 

Louisiana  Salad. 

Salade    Louisianaise. 

2    Lettuce    Heads.     6    Pickel    Cucumbers. 

2    Dozen     Pickled     Onions.    A    Plain 

French   Dressing. 

Use,  in  this  fancy  salad,  lettuce,  pickled 
cucumbers,    pickled    onions,    out    in    dice, 
and  serve   with   a   French   Dressing. 
Okra   Salad. 
Salade  de  Fevi. 

4  Dozen  Boiled  Young  Okras. 
French   Dressing. 

Boil  the  okra  as  directed.  (See  recipe.) 
When  cold,  dress  nicely  with  vinegar,  salt 
and  pepper,  or,  if  preferred,  the  plain 
French  Dressing,  and  serve  very  cold. 
This  is  a  most  delightful  salad,  the  okra 
being  very  cooling  in  our  tropical  climate. 

Spanish  Salad. 

Salade  a  I'EspagnoIe. 

4   Sliced   Tomatoes.     2   Dozen   Pickled 

Onions. 

1-2  Pint  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

This    is    a    very    much    affected    salad, 

made     of    sliced    tomatoes     and     pickled 

onions,  prettily  arranged  around  a  small 

bed  of  Mayonnaise  heaped  in  the  center. 

Strini:  Bean   Salad. 

Haricots  Verts  en  Salade. 

1  Pint  of  Cold  Boiled  String  Beans. 
French   Dressing    (plain). 

Only  very  young  and  tender  beanj 
should  be  used  for  this  salad.  Boll  as 
directed  under  the  heading  "Vegetables," 
and  put  the  beans  in  a  salad  bowl  and 
allow  to  cool  well.  Serve  with  a  plain 
French  Dressing  of  Vinegar  and  a  dash 
French  Dressing,  or,  better  still,  a  simple 
dressing  of  vinegar  and  a  dash  of  Cay- 
enne. 

Tomato    Salad. 

Salade  de  Tomates. 

4   Fresh,   Fine   Tomatoes. 
French   Dressing. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  nicely  and  place  on 
a  salad  dish.  Never  peel  or  scald  toma- 
toes intended  for  salad.  Serve  nicely 
with  a  plain  French  Dressing  or  any  of 
the  above  dressings.  Tomatdes  may  also 
be  served  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing.  In 
this  case  place  them  on  a  bed  of  crisp, 
fresh  lettuce,  whole,  and  serve  one  to 
each  person,  or  cut  them  in  halves.  To- 
matoes with  Mayonnaise  is  a  luncheon 
dish,  or  a  supper  dish. 

Iced   Tomatoes. 

Tomates    Frappe. 

6    Whole    Tomatoes.    1    Pint    Mayonnaise 

Sauce. 

A  Garnish  of  Chopped  Ice. 

Take  the  tomatoes  whole,  liay  on  a 
bed  of  lettuce  or  cress,  as  indicated  above. 
Garnish  with  chopped  Ice,  and  serve  very 


cold  with  Mayonnaise  Sauce.     This  is  de- 
licious and  very  elegant. 

Tomato,    Green  Pepper   and   Onion  Salad. 

Salade  a  la  Creole. 

4   Tomatoes.     2   Green    Peppers.    1   Large 

Onion. 

French   Dressing    (plain). 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  onions  and  green 
peppers  nicely  and  thin;  arrange  on  a 
dish,  placing  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  an  al- 
ternate layer  of  onion  and  green  pepper, 
and  tomatoes  mixed.  Dress  either  before 
bringing  to  the  table,  or  at  the  table, 
with  French  Dressing.  This  is  a  great 
family  salad  among  the  Creoles,  and  a 
very  healthy  one.  The  Creoles  follow 
the  old  adage,  that  the  taste  of  the  onion 
must  only  lurk  within  the  bowl  when 
using  it  for  salad.  More  than  this  ren 
ders  the  salad  disagreeable  and  coarse. 

Watercress     Salad. 

Salade  de  Cresson. 

1  Pint  of  Watercress. 
Minced  Potato,  if  desired. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

This  salad  is  made  of  watercress 
simply,  or  watercress  and  minced  pota- 
toes, mixed  In  equal  quantities,  and 
served  with  a  French  Dressing.  It  is  a 
most  healthy,  light  and  excellent  salad, 
especially  in  summer.  The  salad  Is  de- 
lightful without  the  potatoes.  They  may 
be  added  if  desired. 

The    Gardener's    Wife    Salad. 
Salade  a  la  Jardiniere. 

1  Carrot.    3  Beets. 

1-2    Cup    of    Green    Peas.     1    Cup    String 

Beans. 

A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Take  fine  strips  of  vegetables  of  dif- 
ferent colors,  cooked  and  cold,  with  green 
peas  and  string  beans,  and  dress  nicely 
with  oil  and  vinegar  and  serve. 

Sardine  Salad. 

Salade    de    Sardines. 

1  Box  of  Sardines. 
A  Plain  French  Dressing. 

Cut  the  sardines  into  pieces  of  about 
half  an  inch  in  length.  Season  nicely 
with  a  French  Dressing  and  serve.  This 
is  a  delicious  luncheon  dish. 

Potato     Salad. 

Salade  de  Pommes   de  Terre. 

3  Large  Cold  Boiled  Potatoes. 

2   Hard-Boiled    Eggs. 

6  Tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Vinegar.     1    Large 

Onion. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

4  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

This  is  a  nice  way  of  utilizing  cold  left- 
over potatoes.  But  the  freshly-boiled  po- 
tatoes always  make  the  nicest  "salad: 
Pare  and  peel  the  potatoes.  If  freshly 
boiled,  and  let  them  cool.  Prepare  the 
salad  dressing,  following  impliclty  the 
directions  given  for  plain  French  Dress- 
ing, only  here  the  quantities  are  larger  in 
proportion.  Add  the  vinegar,  stirring 
constantly.  A  dash  of  mustard  may  be 
added,  if  desired.  Mince  the  onion  very 
fine,  and  cut  the  potatoes  Into  difte  or 
slices,  and  mix  them  carefully  with  the 
onion.  Then  add  the  dressing,  turning  the 

gotatoes      into      It      without      breaking, 
prlnkle  all  with  parsley,  nicely  chopped, 
and  serve  cold. 


113 


Kussian    Salad. 

Salade  a  la  Russe. 

2  Carrots.     2  Parsnips. 

1  Cup  of  Cold  Minced  Fowl.    3  Anchovies. 

1    Dozen    Olives.     3    Caviares. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sauce  a  la  Tartare. 

1  Teaspoontul  of  MustafS. 

This  salad  is  made  of  cooked  carrots, 
parsnips,  beets,  cold  roast  beef,  cold  ham, 
a  truffle  (if  it  can  be  afforded),  all  cut 
into  fancy  or  dice-shaped  pieces.  Use 
one  ounce  of  each  of  the  meats,  or  simply 
one  cup  of  cold  minced  fowl,  as  it  may 
not  be  convenient  to  have  all  these  meats 
at  hand  in  households.  Add  six  boned 
anchovies,  and  one  dozen  olives  and  two 
caviares,  and  serve  with  Tartare  Sauce, 
or    with    a    French    Salad    Dressing,    to 


which   mustard   has   been  added.     It  is  n, 
heavy  salad. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

Salade  de  Chevrette  a  la  Mayonnaise. 

2  Pints  of  Cold  Boiled  Shrimp. 

1    Head    of    Crisp    Lettuce.     Mayonnaise 

Sauce. 

Take  Lake  Shrimp  and  Hiver  Shrimp 
combined,  if  you  have  them.  Cut  tha 
larger  Lake  Shrimp  into  two.  Season 
well  with*  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  some 
lettuce.  Season  well.  Place  first  a  layer 
of  shrimp  and  then  of  lettuce,  and  spread 
over  all  a  Mayonnaise  Sauce.  Garnish 
nicely  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 
beets  and  celery  and  lettuce  tips,  and 
serve  very  cold. 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 
SGGS. 

Des   Oeufs. 


A  chapter  on  eggs  would  be  super- 
fluous in  any  cook  book,  were  it  not  for 
the  fact  that  there  are  many,  many 
women  who  cannot  tell  for  a  certainty 
just  how  long  to  boil  an  egg  soft  or 
hard,  just  when  the  exact  point  is  reached 
when  the  omelette  is  cooked  to  a  nicety, 
and  how  to  send  to  the  table  in  all  the 
perfection  of  good  cooking  that  most 
delicate  and  palatable  dish,  the  "Scram- 
ble'a  Egg." 

The  Creoles  have  very  wisely  eschewed 
all  innovations  in  cooking  eggs  that  re- 
quire more  than-  five  to  eight  minutes  to 
cook  to  perfection.  They  cling  to  the  old 
fashioned  soft-boiled  egg,  the  hard-boiled 
egg,  fried  egg,  scrambled  and  poached 
eggs.  They-  have  retained  many  ancient 
French  and  Spanish  methods  of  cooking 
eggs,  but  none  of  these,  followed  prop- 
erly, according  to  the  time-honored  cus- 
toms, calls  for  more  than  five  or  eight 
minutes  at  the  most  in  cooking. 

The  first  and  most  important  point  to 
be  considered  in  preparing  eggs  for  the 
table  is  to  ascertain  whether  they  are 
perfectly  fresh.  The  fresher  the  egg  the 
better.  The  egg  which  appears  moldy  or 
in  the  least  bit  ancient  should  be  rejected. 
Never,  under  any  circumstances,  put  a 
tainted  egg  in  any  dish,  under  the  im- 
pression that  other  ingredients  will  hide 
the  flavor.  Never  put  such  an  egg  in  a 
cake.  The  presence  of  one  egg  that  is 
not  fresh  will  ruin  an  entire  dish.  As  a, 
matter  of  health,  above  all  other  consid- 
erations, such  eggs  should  be  rejected. 

The  old  Creole  dairkies,  in  common  with 
many  other  people,  have  a  way  of  find- 
ing out  whether  an  egg  is  fresh  by  in- 
closing it  in  the  hollow  of  the  hand  and 
looking  through  it  with  one  eye,  while 
shutting  the  other.  They  aver  that  if 
you  can  distinctly  trace  the  yolk  in  one 
solid  mass,  and  if  the  white  around  it 
looks  clear,  the  egg  is  good.  A  more 
simple  and  scientific  way,  and  by  far  a 
surer  one,  is  to  drop  the  eggs  into  cold 
water.  The  fresh  ones  will  sink  imme- 
diately to  the  bottom,  the  doubtful  ones 
will  swim  around  a  little  before  reach- 
ing the  bottom,  and  the  bad  ones  will 
float. 

Eggs  are  among  the  most  nutritious 
articles  of  food  substances.  They  are 
rich  in  albumen,  and  their  free  use  can- 
not be  too  highly  recommended  to  the 
delicate,  to  hard  brain  workers,  and  to 
families  generally. 


Boiled    Eggs. 

Oeufs  a  la  Coque. 

Have  ready  a  saucepan  of  boiling  wa- 
ter. Use  only  fresh  eggs.  Put  them  in 
the  boiling  water  without  cracking  the 
shells.  If  you  desire  soft-boiled  eggs,  or 
"Oeufs  Mollets,"  let  the  eggs  boil  from 
two  minutes  to  two  minutes  and  a  half 
by  the  clock,  keeping  the '  exact  time, 
minute  by  minute.  The  whites  will  then 
be  set.  If  you  desire  the  yolk  to  be  set 
also  in  the  soft-boiled  egg,  let  the  eggs 
boil  three  minutes,  but  not  a  second 
longer.  For  hard-boiled  eggs,  five  min- 
utes is  sufficient.  Bear  in  mind  always 
that  the  water  must  be  boiling  hard  be- 
fore you  put  eggs  into  it,  and  that  the 
exact  time  for  boiling  must  be  followed 
by  the  clock  or  with  the  watch  in  hand. 

Poached    Eggs. 

Oeufs  Poches. 

Have  the  frying  pan  filled  with  boiling 
water.  Add  salt.  Some  add  also  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  vinegar  ' 
ter  of  taste.  The  eggs  must  be  absolutely 
fresh.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer,  one 
by  one,  and  gently  slip  off  into  the  wa- 
ter, without  breaking  the  yolk.  Break 
another  and  another,  until  you  have  four 
in  the  pan,  and  allow  the  eggs  to  stand 
apart.  Let  them  boil  thus  on  the  water, 
till  the  white  forms  a  thin  veil  over  the 
yolks.  Then  the  eggs  are  done.  Take 
them  up  gently,  neatly  round  off  the 
ragged  edges,  sprinkle  the  top  with  a 
little  black  pepper,  place  on  buttered 
toast,   and   serve   immediately. 

Fried    Eggs. 

Oeufs  Frits. 

6  Eggs.     2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lard. 

The  lard  must  be  very  hot.  Break  the 
eggs  gently  into  a  saucer,  one  by  one, 
and  drop  gently  into  the  lard,  without 
breaking  the  yolks.  With  the  spoon  take 
up  a  little  of  the  hot  lard  and  drop 
gently  over  the  top  of  the  egg,  if  you 
wish  it  to  be  quite  done.  Otherwise 
simply  fry  till  the  yojk  is  set.  Slide  out 
on  a  batter  cake  turner,  and  place  in  a 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  black  pep- 
per, and  add,  if  you  wish,  a  little  pars- 
ley garnish,  and  serve  very  hot. 


114 


Ham    and    Vlgg». 

Oeufs  au  Jambon. 

6  Slices  of  Ham.     6  Eggs. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

The  ham  should  always  be  soaked  in 
hot  water  before  frying.  Cut  slices  of 
about  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  of  suffi- 
cient size  to  lay  an  egg  upon  them.  Lay 
the  ham  in  the  hat  frying  pan,  and  let  it 
fry  until  the  fat  becomes  transparent. 
Then  take  the  slices  out  and*  put  them 
on  a  hot  dish.  Break  the  eggs,  one  by 
one,  into  a  saucer,  and  slip  them  into  the 
frying  pan,  and  fry  in  the  same  lard  in 
which  you  have  fried  the  ham.  When 
the  yolks  are  quite  set,  take  them  out, 
and  lay  one  egg  on  each  slice  of  ham. 
Garnish  nicely  with  parsley,  and  serve 
hot.  This  is  a  great  Creole  breakfast 
dish. 

Scrambled    Eggs. 

Oeufs    Erouilles. 

6  Fresh  Eggs.  A  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt  and   Pepper  to  Taste. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer,  one  by 
one,  and  then  transfer  to  a  bowl.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  the 
frying  pan  very  hot.  Put  into  it  the 
butter,  and  add  immediately  the  eggs, 
and  keep  stirring  around  and  around 
and  across  for  about  three  or  four  min- 
utes, judging  by  the  consistency  of  the 
e&g.  which  must  be  like  a  thick  mush  as 
you  take  it  from  the  fire.  Keep  stirring 
a  few  seconds  longer  after  you  have 
taken  the  pan  off  the  fire,  and  put  the 
eggs  into  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  witn 
parsley  and  serve  immediately  with  but- 
tered toast  or  broiled  ham.  The  beauty 
of  the  scrambled  egg  is  that  the  whites 
and  yolks  are  delicately  blended.  The 
practice  of  beating  the  yolks  and  whites 
thoroughly  together,  as  for  an  omelette, 
before  scrambling  the  eggs,  is  to  be  con- 
demned as  against  the  best  ethics  of  Cre- 
ole cookery.  There  is  no  comparison  in 
the  taste  of  the  scrambled  egg  cooked  ac- 
cording to  the  above  method  and  the 
eggs  in  which  the  yolks  and  whites  have 
been  previously  beaten  together. 

"Eggs    Scrambled   In   Ham. 

Oeufs    Brouilles    au    Jambon. 

6    Eggs. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Finely  Minced 

Boiled  Ham. 

A  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Mince  the  ham  very  fine,  and  break 
the  eggs,  one  by  one,  into  a  saucer,  and 
add  to  the  bowl  in  which  you  have 
minced  the  ham.  Mix  all  together.  Place 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying 
pan,  add  the  eggs  and  ham,  stir  briskly, 
and  when  it  comes  to  the  consistency  of 
starch  take  off  the  fire,  and  serve  hot  on 
buttered  toast. 

In  the  same  manner  eggs  may  be 
scrambled  with  minced  truffles,  mush- 
rooms, onions,  celery  or  tomatoes. 

Eggs    Scrambled    With    Preserves. 

Oeufs  Brouilles  aux  Confitures. 

6    Eggs.    1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 
2    Tablespoonfuls     of    Fruit    Marmalade. 

Eggs  may  also  be  scrambled  with  mar 
malade  of  apricots  or  prunes,  in  which 
case  they  are  called  "Oeufs  Brouilles  aux 
Confitures."  Follow  above  recipe,  using 
the  marmalade  Instead  of  the  hatn. 


Eggs  Fondas. 

Oeufs  Fondus  au  Fromage. 

6    Eggs. 

4      Heaping      Teaspoonfuls      of      Gruyere 

Cheese,    Grated. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  saucepan,  add 
the  butter^  the  grated  cheese,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.  Place  the  saucepan  on  a 
hot  fire,  stir  the  mixture  around  and 
around  till  the  edges  begin  to  thicken, 
and  when  of  the  consistency  of  a  thick 
starch  take  off  the  fire  and  serve  imme- 
diately  on   buttered  toast. 

Eggs    With    Asparagus    Tips. 

Oeufs  aux  Pointes  d'Asperges. 

6    Eggs. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of   Asparagus   Tips. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Milk.     Salt    and 

Pepper. 

Buttered    Toast. 

Boil  the  asparagus  tips  (see  recipe), 
and  put  the  eggs  Into  a  saucepan,  with 
the  butter,  after  seasoning  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  mixing  the  milk.  Stir 
a  second,  and  throw  in  the  asparagus, 
and  proceed  to  scramble  as  in  preceding 
recipe.     Serve    on    buttered   toast. 

Cauliflower  may  be  prepared  with  eggs 
in  the  same  way. 

Shirred   Eggs. 

Oeufs  sur  le  Plat. 

6    Eggs.     1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  thin  dish,  in 
which  they  are  to  be  served,  having  first 
buttered  the  bottom  of  the  dish  or  pan. 
Sprinkle  them  w^ith  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
over  a  little  melted  butter,  place  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  let  them  bake  until  the 
yolks  are  set.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which 
they  have  been  cooked. 

Eggs    a    la    Ponlette. 

Oeufs    a.    la   Poulette. 
6  Eggs.    1-2  Pint  of  Sauce  a  la  Poulette. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard  and  slice.  Pour 
over  a  Sauce  a  la  Poulette  (see  recipe), 
and   serve  hot. 

Beauregard   Eggs. 

Oeufs    a    la    Beauregard. 

6   Eggs.     1-2   Pint   of   Fresh   Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1    Tablespoonful    o'f    Cornstarch. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  eggs  for  five  minutes,  till 
hard.  Then  take  out  of  the  water  and 
cool,  take  off  the  shells,  and  separate  the 
whites  from  the  yolks,  rubbing  the  lat- 
ter through  a  sieve,  and  chopping  the 
former  very  fine.  But  do  not  mix  them. 
Have  the  milk  ready  to  boil,  and  rub 
the  butter  and  cornstarch  together,  and 
add  to  the  boiling  milk.  Then  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Prepare  previous  to  this  some 
buttered  toast,  and  cover  It  now  with  a 
layer  of  this  white  sauce,  and  then  add 
a  layer  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Add 
another  layer  of  the  sauce,  and  another 
layer  of  the  yolks,  and  then  the  remain- 
der of  the  sauce.  St)rinkle  the  top  with 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  in  the 
oven  and  let  it  stand  two  minutes,  and 
serve   hot. 


115 


Plain  Omelet. 

Omelette. 

4    Fresh    Bggs.    1    Tablespoonful    of 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

II  you  wish  to  have  the  omelet  very 
nice,  break  the  whites  and  yolks  sep- 
arately, and  beat  the  former  till  they 
come  to  a  light  froth,  and  the  latter 
till  they  are  quite  lig-ht.  Then  beat  the 
whites  and  yolks  together.  Season  well. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  letting 
it  grow  hot,  but  not  by  any  means 
brown.  Pour  in  the  mixture  of  egg.  Let 
it  stand  about  two  minutes,  shaking  oc- 
casionally to  prevent  it  from  sticking  to 
the  pan.  Continue  shaking  over  a  quick 
fire  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Then  roll 
the  omelet,  folding  it  in  two  or  three 
rolls  and'  making  it  long  and  narrow. 
Take  a  hot  dish,  turn  the  omelet  into  it, 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  hot  im- 
mediately, or  it  will  fall.  It  Is  always 
easier  to  make  several  small  omelets 
and  have  them  pretty  and  sightly  than 
to  succeed  perfectly  in  making  a  large 
one. 

Creole    Omelet. 
Omelette    a   la    Creole. 

6    Fine,    Ripe    Tomatoes.     2     Onions. 
6    Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Minced  Ham. 

1-2    Clove    of    Garlic. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Scald  and  skin  six  fine,  ripe  tomatoes, 
and  chop  them  fine.  Chop  two  onions, 
and  mince  the  garlic  very  fine,  and  add 
a  large  spoonful  of  bread  crumbs.  Fry 
them  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan  till  quite  brown.  Then  add 
the  tomatoes,  and  salt,  pepper  and  Ca- 
yenne to  taste,  and  let  all  stew  for  an 
hour,  at  least.  .Prepare  the  eggs  as  for 
Ham  Omelet  (see  recipe),  and  when  the 
tomatoes  are  quite  done  have  ready  a 
heated  frying  pan  and  a  half  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter.  Pour  this  into  the  pan. 
As  they  become  set  pour  in  the  center 
the  tomatoes,  and  fold  the  omelet  over, 
and  cook  for  two  minutes  longer.  Roll 
gently  into  a  dish  and  serve  hot. 
Ham  Omelet 
Omelette  au  Jambon. 
4  Eggs.    1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Flour. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Milk. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Chopped  Ham. 

1-2  Grated   Onion. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Beat    the    yolks    to    a    cream,    and    add 
the     other     ingredients.    Rub     all     these 
smoothly    together,     and     then     add     the 
whites   of  eggs,   beaten   to   a  froth.     Beat 
all    thoroughly    together.     Put    a    table- 
spoonful   of    butter    in    the    frying    pan. 
When    it    melts    add    the    omelet.     Let    it 
stand,    shaking    occasionally    to    prevent 
from    sticking    to    the    pan,    till    the   eggs 
are    quite   set.     Then    fold    as    in    a   plain 
omelet,  turn  into  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 
Kidney    Omelet. 
Omelette    aux    Rognons. 
3    Kidneys.     6    Eggs. 
11-2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
Cut    the    fat    from    the    kidneys,    wash 
well,    and   -cut    into    small    pieces.    Mix 
these  with  the  eggs,  which  you  will  have 
prepared  as  for  a  plain  omelet,  and  pro- 
ceed   as    in    Ham    Omelet.    This    is    very 
^Ice  served  with  Tomato  Sauce. 


MuBhroom     Omelet. 

Omelette    aux    Champignons. 

6   Eggs.    1-4  Can   of   Mushrooms. 

1  1-2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

Stew  the  mushrooms  a  few  minutes. 
Then  chop  them  fine.  Make  a  plain  ome- 
let. When  it  is  ready  to  fold,  place  the 
mushrooms  across  the  center,  fold  twice 
over,  let  it  cook  two  minutes  longer, 
and    serve    hot. 

Onion   Omelet. 

Omelette    a    I'Ognon. 

4    Eggs.    1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 
1  Large  Onion  Minced  Very  Fine. 

Beat  the  eggs  as  for  a  plain  omelet. 
Then  stew  the  onions  in  the  butter  till 
quite  tender.  Stir  in  the  omelet  once, 
and  then  let  it  cook  as  in  a  plain  omelet. 
Roll  in  folds,  and  serve  hot. 

Omelet    Souffle. 

Omelette  Soufflee. 

The   Whites   of   6   Eggs.     The   Yolks  of  4 

£iggs. 
The  Juice  of  Half  a  Lemon,  or  a  Spoon 

of  Orange  Flower  Water  or  Kirsoh. 

4     Tablespoonfuls     of     Powdered     White 

Sugar. 

Have  a  baking  dish  ready,  greased 
with  butter,  and  be  sure  that  the  oven  is 
very  hot.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  the  yolks  and  the 
sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  or  a  tablespoonful  of 
orange  flower  water  or  Kirsch.  Add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Stir  carefully  and 
heap  all  quickly  into  the  baking  dish 
and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes,  till  the 
top  is  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  imme- 
diately, as  it  will  fall  if  allowed  to  stand. 
This  may  be  served  as  a  sweet  entremet 
or  as  a  dessert. 

Parsley   Omelet. 

Omelette  au  Persil. 

6    Eggs.     11-2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
1   Tablespoonful   of   Cut  Parsley. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  Plain  Omelet,  only  mix  a  tablespoon- 
ful ol  cut  parsley  in  the  omelet  before 
putting  in  the  frying  pan. 

Truffle    Omelet. 

Omelette    aux    Truffes. 

6    Eggs.    2    Truffles. 

11-2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

An  omelet  with  truffles  is  made  in  the 

same  manner  as  a  Mushroom  Omelet. 

Rum  Omelet. 

Omelette  au  Rhum. 

3    Eggs.     1    Glass    of    Jamaica    Rum. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Beat  the  yolks  well;  add  the  milk,  and 
then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  all  together.  The 
longer  the  eggs  are  beaten,  the  lighter 
will  be  the  omelet.  Make  a  plain  omelet. 
('See  recipe.)  Fold  and  turn  quickly  into 
a  hot  dish;  place  three  lumps  of  loaf 
sugar  on  top  of  the  omelet,  and  bring 
to  the  table  hot.  As  you  place  it  on  the 
table  pour  the  rum  over  the  omelet  and 
around.  Set  the  rum  on  fire  with  a 
match,  and  with  a  tablespoon  dash  the 
burning  rum  over  the  omelet  till  all  the 
sugar  has  melted  over  it  and  all  the  rum 
has  evaporated.  When  it  ceases  burning 
serve  immediately.  This  is  served  as  a 
sweet   entremet. 


116 


CHAPTER  XXrV. 

LOUISIANA  bice:. 

Le   Hiz   de  la  Louisia-ne. 


The  cultivation  of  rice  began  In  Lou- 
isiana nearly  a  hundred  years  after  It 
comnienced  in  Georgia  and  South  Caro- 
lina, but  Louisiana  now  produces  more 
of  this  beautiful  grain  than  both  these 
states  combined.  It  is  one  of  the  great 
Louisiana  staples,  and  New  Orleans  is 
the  distributing  point  of  the  immense 
crop  that  yearly  makes  our  immense  rice 
fields  of  iSouthwestern  'Louisiana  the 
wonder  and  admiration  of  tourists. 

In  no  section  of  the  world  can  rice 
be  grown  at  so  small  a  cost  as  in  Lou- 
isiana. The  cost  of  growing  the  grain 
in  our  matchless  clime  is  small,  and  it 
requires   but   little    capital    to   begin. 

The  following  recipes,  carefully  select- 
ed from  among  many  that  are  used  in 
this  old  Creole  city  of  New  Orleans,  will 
give  an  idea  of  how  rice  is  prepared  and 
made  such  a  delightful  article  of  food  In 
our   Creole   households: 

How    to    Prepare    Bice    for    Cooking. 

The  whiteness  of  the  rice  depends  in  a 
great  degree  upon  its  being  washed  thor- 
oughly. Pick  the  rice  clean,  and  wash  it 
well  in  cold  water  before  attempting  to 
cook,  rubbing  the  rice  well  with  the 
hands  to  get  all  the  dust  off.  Pour  off 
the  first  water,  and  add  fresh;  then  pour 
off  this,  and  add  fresh  again.  The  rice 
will  then  be  ready  to  cook. 

How  to  BoU  Bice. 

Wlien  properly  boiled,  rice  should  be 
snowy  white,  perfectly  dry  and  srnooth; 
and  every  grain  separate  and  distinct. 
To  attain  this  end,  put  a  quart  of  water 
on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  well,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wash  a  cup  of  rice 
well  in  cold  water.  When  the  water 
commences  to  boil  well  add  the  rice. 
The  boiling  water  will  toss  the  grains 
of  rice,  and  prevent  them  from  clinging 
together.  As  soon  as  the  grains  com- 
mence to  soften  do  not,  under  any  cir- 
cumstances, stir  or  touch  the  rice  again. 
Let  it  continue  to  boil  rapidly  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  grains  be- 
gin to  swell  out,  and  it  appears  to 
thicken.  This  is  easily  ascertained  by 
touching  one  of  the  grains  with  your 
finger.  When  it  has  reached  this  stage 
take  the  cover  off  and  pour  off  the 
water,  and  set  the  pot  in  the  oven,  so 
that  the  rice  may  swell  up.  Let  it  stand 
in  the  oven  about  ten  minutes.  Do  not 
let  it  brown,  but  simply  dry — that  is,  let 
the  water  which  rises  dry  out  of  the 
rice.  Take  it  off,  and  let  it  stand  a  few 
minutes.  Then  pour  out  into  a  dish. 
Every  grain  will  be  white  and  beautiful, 
and  stand  apart  because  the  drying  in 
the  oven  will  have  evaporated  the  mois- 
ture, leaving  the  rice  soft,  snowy  white 
and   perfectly   dry. 

Boiled  rice  is  delicious  served  with 
chicken,  turkey,  crab  or  shrimp  or  okra 
gumbo,  as  also  with  many  vegetables,  all 
daubes,  and  with  gravies  of  all  kinds.  It 
is  the  standing  dish  of  every  Creole  table. 

Creole  Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya    a    la    Creole. 

Jambalaya  is  a  Spanish-Creole  dish, 
which  is  a  great  favorite  in  New  Or- 
leans, and  is  made  according  to  the  fol- 
lowing recipe. 


One  and  a  Half  Cups  of  Rice 

1  Pound  of  Fresh  Pork.    1  Slice  of  Ham. 

1  Dozen   Pine  Chaurice    (Pork 

Sausage). 

2  Onions.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 
2  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

2  Bay    Leaves.     2    Cloves    Ground    Very 

Fine. 

3  Quarts    of   Beef    Broth    or    Hot   Water. 

(Broth  Preferred.) 
1-2  Spoonful  of  Chili  Pepper. 
Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 
Cut  the  pork  very  fine,  lean  and  fat, 
into  pieces  of  about  half  an  inch  square. 
Chop  the  onions  very  fine,  and  mince 
the  garlic  and  fine  herbs.  Grind  the 
cloves.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
into  the  saucepan,  and  add  the  onions 
and  pork,  and  let  them  brown  slowly. 
Stir  frequently,  and  let  them  continue 
browning  slightly.  When  slightly  brown 
add  the  ham,  chopped  very  fine,  and 
the  cloves  of  garlic.  Then  add  the 
minced  herbs,  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  pars- 
ley and  cloves.  Let  all  this  brown  for 
five  minutes  longer,  and  add  a  dozen 
fine  Chaurice,  cut  apart,  and  let  all  cook 
five  minutes  longer.  Then  add  the  three 
quarts  of  water  or  broth,  always  using 
In  preference  the  broth.  Let  it  all  cook 
for  ten  minutes,  and  when  it  comes  to 
a  boil  add  the  rice,  which  has  been  care- 
fully washed.  Then  add  to  this  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  Chili  pepper,  and  salt  and 
Cayenne  to  taste.  The  Creoles  season 
highly  with  Cayenne.  Let  all  boil  for 
a  half  hour  longer,  or  until  the  rice  is 
firm,  and  serve  hot. 

Crab    Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya    aux    Crabes. 
1    Dozen    Fine,    Large   Crabs. 
1 1-2    Cups    of    Rice.    3    Quarts    of   Broth. 
3    Tomatoes.     2    Onions. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1    Tablespoonful    of    Flour.     2    Cloves    of 
Garlic. 
2    Sprigs    of    Thyme.     2    Bay    Leaves. 
1-2   Teaspoonful   of  Chili   Pepper. 
Salt  and  Black  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Boil  the  crabs  according  to  recipe.  (See 
Boiled    Crabs.)     Then    cut   in    pieces,   cut- 
ting   the    bodies    into    quarters.     Proceed 
in   exactly  the   same  manner  as   in  mak- 
ing Shrimp  Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya  an  CongrL 

Jambalaya  au  Congri 

1    Cup    of    Rice. 

1    Pint    of    Cowpeas. 

1    Large    Onion. 

1-2   Pound   of  Salt   Meat.    1   Square  Inch 

of   Ham. 

Chop  the  salt  meat,  after  washing, 
into  dice,  and  mince  the  ham.  Boil  the 
cowpeas  and  the  salt  meat  and  ham 
together.  Add  the  onion,  minced  very 
fine.  Boil  the  rice  according  to  recipe 
for  boiled  rice.  (See  recipe.)  Chop  the 
meat  well.  After  the  peas  and  the  rice 
are  cooked,  pour  the  rice  into  the  pot 
of  peas,  which  must  not  be  drv.  but  very 
moist.  Mix  well.  Let  all  simmer  for 
five  minutes,  and  then  serve  hot.  On 
Fridays  and  fast  days  the  Creoles  boll 
the  peas  in  water,  adding  a  tablespoon- 
ful   of  butter,    but    no   meat.     It  is  again 


117 


buttered  according  to  individual  taste  at 
table.  The  jambalaya,  however,  is  much 
nicer  when  made  with  the  meat. 

Shrimp    Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya   aux    Chevrettes 

1 1-2   Cups    of   Rice.     3   Tomatoes. 

80   Lake   Shrimp. 

2   Onions.     Cayenne   to   Taste. 

1  Tablespoonful   Butter.     1   Tablespoonful 

Flour. 
1-2   Teaspoonful   of   Chili   Pepper. 
Salt.     Pepper.     2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

2  Sprigs  Bach   of  Thyme  and  Bay   Leaf. 

Chop  two  onions  very  fine,  and  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  to  brown  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  After  a  few 
minutes  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 
stir  well.  Then  add  chopped  thyme,  bay 
leaf  and  parsley,  and  two  cloves  of  gar- 
lic, minced  very  fine.  Let  all  of  this  fry 
five  minutes  longer,  and  be  careful  not 
to  let  it  burn  or  brown  too  much.  Add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  Chili  pepper,  and 
three  large  tomatoes,  chopped  fine,  and 
also  add  the  juice.  Let  all  brown  or 
simmer  for  ten  minutes  longer.  When 
cooked  add  three  quarts  of  broth  or  wa- 
ter, or,  if  on  Friday,  and  you  do  not  eat 
meat,  add  oyster  water  or  plain  water 
(the  former  preferred)  which  has  been 
heated  to  the  boiling  point.  Let  all  boil 
well,  and  then  add  the  lake  shrimp, 
which  you  will  already  have  boiled  ac- 
cording to  recipe.  (See  recipe  for  Boiled 
Shrimp.)  Let  the  mixture  boil  again  for 
five  minutes,  and  add  one  cup  and  a  half 
of  rice,  or  half  a  pound,  which  has  been 
well  washed.  Mix  all  well,  and  let  boil 
for  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
longer,  stirring  every  once  in  a  while, 
so  as  to  mix  all   together.     Serve   hot. 

A    French    Filon. 

Pllou    Francais. 

2  Chickens.    1-2  Cup  of  Rice. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

The    Tolks    of    2    Eggs.     Bread    Crumbs. 

Boil  the  fowls  according  to  recipe.  (See 
recipe  Boiled  Chicken.)  When  done,  take 
out  about  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which 
it  was  boiled,  and  put  the  rice  which 
you  will  have  washed  well,  into  the 
remaining  boiling  broth.  Let  it  cook 
well  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  the  rice. 
Butter  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  and  put 
upon  it  one-half  of  the  rice,  spreading 
out  nicely.  Lay  upon  it  the  chickens, 
which  have  been  disjointed  and  buttered. 
Add  the  remaining  chicken  broth,  pour- 
ing over  the  chickens.  Then  cover  the 
fowls  with  the  other  half  of  the  rice. 
Make  the  top  perfectly  smooth.  Spread 
over  It  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  which 
have  been  well  beaten.  Sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  dot  with  little  bits 
of  butter  here  and  there.  Set  in  the 
oven,    let    it    brown,    and    serve    hot. 

Chicken    With    Bice. 

Poulet  au  Riz- 
1  Young  Chicken.  1-2  Cup  of  Rice. 
This  is  a  most  delightful  Creole  way 
of  preparing  chicken  and  rice.  It  is 
highly  recommended.  Prepare  and  cook 
the  chicken  as  in  Poulet  au  Riz,  only 
do  not  cut  up  the  chicken,  but  stew 
whole.  When  three-fourths  done,  add 
the  rice,  and  in  serving  place  the  chicken 
In  the  center  of  the  dish  and  heap  the 
rice  around.  Young  chickens  are  best 
for  this  dish.  An  old  chicken  may  be 
cut    up    and    cooked    till    tender,    as    in 


Poulet    au    Riz.     (S'ee    recipe    Poulet    au 
Riz,  under  chapter  on   Meat  Soups.) 

Pilaff  of  Chicken 

Pilaff  de  Volaille. 

1    Chicken    About    Four    Pounds. 

1-2   Cup   of  Rice.     1  Tablespoonful   of 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Clean  and  cut  the  chicken  as  you 
would  for  a  fricasse.  Put  in  a  stewpan 
and  cover  well  with  water.  Add  salt 
and  pepper  again  to  taste,  having,  of 
course,  previously  rubbed  The  fowl  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Let  the  chicken  sim- 
mer gently  for  about  an  hour.  Then 
take  a  half  cup  of  fice  and  wash  it 
thoroughly.  Add  it  to  the  chicken.  Salt 
again  to  taste.  Cover  and  let  all  sim- 
mer for  about  twenty  minutes  longer. 
Then  make  a  Tomato  Sauce  (see  recipe). 
Dish  the  chicken  and  rice  together  set- 
ting the  chicken  in  the  center  of  the 
dish  and  the  rice  around  for  a  border. 
Serve  hot.  This  dish  can  be  nicely  made 
from  the  remains  of  cold  chicken  or 
mutton. 

How  to  Make  a  Bice  Border. 

Bordure    de   Riz. 

1  Cup  of  Rice.    1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 
Salt  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  rice  according  to  recipe  glvnn 
above,  using  one  cup  to  one  quart  of 
boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Pour  off  any  water  that  re- 
mains on  top.  Set  in  the  oven  to  dry  for 
about  ten  minutes,  then  drain.  S'easou 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  press  into  a 
well-buttered  border  mold.  Put  it  in  the 
oven  and  let  it  bake  ten  minutes.  Take 
out.  Place  a  dish  on  the  mold.  Turn  It 
upside  down,  and  remove  the  mold.  The 
.  hollow  space  in  the  center  can  be  filled 
with  a  White  or  Brown  Fricassee  of 
Chicken   or  Curry   or  Crawfish. 

Curry    of    Crawfish. 

Ecrevisses    au    Kari. 
1  Cup   of  Rice.    3  Dozen  Crawfish. 

2  Ounces    of   Butter.     1    Clove    of   Garlic 
2  Sprigs  of  Thyme.     2  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf.     Juice  of  Half  a  Lemon. 

1   Teaspoonful    of   Curry   Powder. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Flour.    1    Quart    or 

Water. 
Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste.    A    Dash    of 
Cayenne. 

Boil  the  crawfish  according  to  the  re- 
cipe given.  (See  Boiled  Crawfish.)  Clean 
and  pick  the  crawfish  the  same  as  for  a 
fricassee.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in 
the  frying  pan.  Cut  one  onion  iln  slices, 
add  it  to  the  butter,  letting  it  brown 
nicely.  Then  add  the  well-seasoned  craw- 
fish, and  fry  them  to  a  golden  brown 
Add  one  clove  of  garlic,  finely  minced, 
and  miniced  thyme,  parsley  and  bay- 
leaf.  Let  this  brown.  After  five  minutes 
add  a  quart  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 
dash  of  Cayenne.  Simmer  gently  until 
the  crawfish  are  very  tender.  When 
done  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
mix  one  even  tablespoonful  of  Curry 
Powder  and  one  of  flour  with  a  little 
water.  Bring  it  to  a  simooth  paste  by 
rubbing  well,  and  add  it  to  the  craw- 
fish. Stir  constantly,  and  let  It  boil 
five  minutes  longer.  Serve  wth  a  border 
of  boiled  rice  heaped  around  it.  Curry 
of  Chicken  is  made  in  the  same  manner, 
by  adding  the  Curry  Powder. 


118 


Boiled   Bice,   Italian    Style. 

Riz    BouilU   a   I'ltalienne. 

1    Cup    of    Rice.    A    Slice    of    Breakfa.sl 

Bacon. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Grated  Parmesan. 

1    Pincli    Saffron.    Salt    and    Pepper    to 

Taste. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Wash  one  cup  of  rice.  Take  boiling 
water,  using  about  a  quart.  Add  a  slice 
of  bacon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  a  pinch  of  saffron. 
Let  it  boil  well  for  five  minutes.  Then 
add  the  rice  gradually,  continuing  to 
cook  according  to  the  recipe  for  boiled 
rice.  When  done,  remove  the  bacon,  dot 
the  top  with  bits  of  butter,  set  in  the 
stove  to  dry  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
hot. 

GALAS. 
"Belle    Cala!     Tout    Chaud!" 

Under  this  cry  was  sold  by  the  ancient 
Creole  negro  women  in  the  French  Quar- 
ter of  New  Orleans  a  delicious  rice  cake, 
which  was  eaten  with  the  morning  cup 
of  Cafe  au  Lait.  The  Cala  woman  was 
a  daily  figure  in  the  streets  till  within 
the  last  two  or  three  years.  She  went 
her  rounds  in  quaint  bandana  tignon, 
guinea  blue  dress  and  white  apron,  and 
carried  on  her  head  a  covered  bo-wl,  in 
which  were  the  dainty  and  hot  Galas. 
Her  cry,  "Belle  Cala!  Tout  Chaud'" 
would  penetrate  the  morning  air,  and  the 
olden  Creole  cooks  would  rush  to  the 
doors  to  get  the  first  fresh,  hot  Calas 
to  carry  to  their  masters  and  mistresses 
with  the  early  morning  cup  of  coffee. 
The  Cala  women  have  almost  all  passed 
away. 

But  the  custom  of  making  Calas  still 
remains.  In  many  an  ancient  home  the 
good  housewife  tells  her  daughters  just 
how  "Tante  Zizi"  made  the  Calas  in  her 
day,  and  so  are  preserved  these  ancient 
traditional   recipes. 

From  one  of  the  last  of  the  olden  Cala 
women,  one  who  has  walked  the  streets 
of  the  French  Quarter  for  fifty  years  and 
more,  we  have  the  following  established 
Creole  recipe: 

1-2  Cup  of  Rice.    3  Cups  Water  (boiling). 
3    Eggs.    1-2    Cup    of    Sugar. 
1-2  Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    ot    Grated    Nutmeg. 
Powdered    White    Sugar.     Boiling    Lard. 

Put  three  cups  of  water  in  a  saucepan 
and  let  it  boil  hard.  Wash  half  a  cup  of 
rice  thoroughly,  and  drain  and  put  In 
the  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  till  very 
soft  and  mushy.  Take  it  out  and  set  it 
to  cool.  When  cold,  mash  well  and  mix 
with  the  yeast,  which  you  will  have  dis- 
solved in  a  half  cup  of  hot  water.  Set 
the  rice  to  rise  overnight.  In  the  morn- 
ing beat  three  eggs  thoroughly,  and  add 
to  the  rice,  mixing  and  beating  well. 
Add  a  half  cup  of  sugar  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  to  make  the  rice  ad- 
here. Mix  "well  and  beat  thoroughly, 
bringing  it  to  a  thick  batter.  Set  to  rise 
for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Then  add 
about  a  half  teaspoonful  of  grated  nut- 
meg, and  mix  well.  Have  ready  a  frying 
pan.  In  which  there  is  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  lard  boiling  tor  the  rice  cakes  to 
swim  in  It,  Test  by  dropping  In  a  small 
piece  of  bread.  If  It  becomes  a  golden 
brown  the  lard  Is  ready,  but  If  It  bums 
or  browns  Instantly  It  Is  too  hot.  The 
golden  brown  color  Is  the  true  test.  Take 
a  large  deep  spoon,  and  drop  a  spoonful 
at  a  time  of  the  preparation  Into  the 
boiling  lard,  remembering  always  that 
the  cake  must  not  touch  the  bottom  of 


the  pan.  Let  fry  to  a  nice  brown.  ,  The 
old  Cala  women  used  to  take  the  Calaii 
piping  hot,  wrap  them  in  a  clean  towel, 
basket  or  bowl,  and  rush  through  the 
streets  with  the  welcome  cry,  "Belle  Cala! 
Tout  Chaud!"  ringing  on  the  momine 
air.  But  in  families  the  cook  simply 
takes  the  Calas  out  of  the  frying  pan 
and  drains  off  the  lard  by  laying  in  a 
colander  or  on  heated  pieces  of  brown 
paper.  They  are  then  placed  in  a  hot 
dish,  and  sprinkled  over  with  powdered 
white  sugar,  and  eaten  hot  with  Cafe  au 
Lait. 

Bice   Waffles. 

Galettes    de   Riz. 

1 1-2  Cups   of  Softly  Boiled  Rice. 

2    Ounces    of   Butter.    1    Pint   of   Scalded 

Milk. 

3     Eggs.    1    Teaspoonful     of    Baking 

Powder. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   Salt. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Wheat  Flour. 

The  rice  must  be  cold  and  well  mashed. 
Melt  the  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
into  the  milk,  which  has  been  allowed 
to  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
the  whites  separately,  making  the  latter 
come  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  the  rice  and 
milk.  Beat  thoroughly,  and  then  add  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  bak- 
ing powder,  and  the  flour.  Put  the  yolks 
into  the  batter,  first  blending  well,  and 
lastly  add  the  whites,  and  beat  well 
again.  The  waffle  iron  should  be  very 
hot,  and  -well  greased  in  every  part. 
Always  have  a  little  brush  with  which 
to  grease  the  waffle  irons.  Pour  the  bat- 
ter into  a  pitcher,  so  that  you  may  more 
easily  fill  the  irons.  Open  Uie  irons,  pour 
the  batter  from  the  pitcher  and  fill  the 
iron  quickly.  Then  close  quickly  and  set 
on  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  edges  are 
set,  turn  the  iron  and  l>ake  on  the  other 
side.  Two  minutes  ^ould  be  all  the  time 
required  to  bake  a  waffle  nicely.  The 
■waffles  must  be  baked  evenly.  Always 
select  the  simple  waffle  baker  with  four 
compartments  in  preference  to  the  more 
elaborate  designs.  Better  results  will  be 
achieved.  When  the  waffles  are  baked, 
remove  them  carefully,  place  on  a  hot 
dish,  piling  them  in  double  rows,  and  but- 
ter them  generously.  Rice  waffles  are 
generally  served  with  ground  cinnamon 
and  sugar  mixed  and  sprinkled  over.  But 
this  is  a  matter  of  taste.  They  are  very 
delicious  when  served  -with  butter  and 
Louisiana  Syrup  or  Molasses. 

Bice    Griddle    Cakes. 

Gateaux    de    Riz. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.     1 1-2  Cups  of  Cold  Boiled 

Rice. 

1 1-2  Cups   of  Flour.     2  Eggs. 

2    iHteaping    Teaspoonfuls    of    Baking 

Po^rder. 

1  Large  Teaspoonful  of  Sajt. 

Scald  the  milk  and  set  it  to  cool.  Press 
the  rice  through  a  sieve,  and  then  add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then 
the  salt,  yeast  pcwder  and  flour,  blended, 
and  beat  well.  Then  add  the  milk,  blend- 
ing thoroughly,  and  finally  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 
Bice  Bread. 
Pain   de   RIx. 

1  Cup  of  Cold  Boiled  Rice. 

2  Cups  of    wihite  Indian   Meal.    3  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 
2   Heaping    Teaspoonfuls    of   Baking 

Powder. 
11-4  Pints  Milk.    1  Teaspoonful  Salt 


H9 


Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs 
together  until  very  light,  and  then  pour 
in  the  millt,  mixing  gradually.  Add  the 
well-prepared  meal,  into  which  you  will 
have  mixed  the  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Beat  well.  Then  add  the  melted  butter 
and  the  rice,  which  you  will  have  pressed 
through  a  sieve.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and 
beat  till  very  light.  Then  grease  the 
and  the  rice,  which  you  will  have  pressed 
bottom  of  a  shallow  pan  and  turn  the 
mixture  in  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
hot  oven.    'Serve  hot,  buttering  the  slices 

freely.  Tlhis'  lis  a  d'elicious  breakfast 
bread,  and,  as  in  any  of  the  above  re- 
cipes, cold  rice  left  over  may  be  utilized 

in   its  making. 

Rice    Croquettes     With    Parsley. 

Croquettes   de  Riz   au   Persil. 

1  Cup  of  Rice.    1  Quart  of  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of   Chopped   Parsley. 

The  Yolks  of  4  Eggs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  rice  well,  and  put  it  on  to 
boil  in  a  farina  boiler  with  the  milk. 
or  use  cold  boiled  rice,  and  set  it  to 
boil  with  the  milk,  after  pressing  through 
a  sieve.  If  the  rice  has  not  been  cooked, 
let  it  boil  about  an  hour.  If  it  has  al- 
ready been  cooked,  twenty  minutes  wi!' 
suffice.  When  very  thick  take  from  the 
fire  and  beat  until  very  smooth,  mashing 
all  the  grains.  Then  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  cook  for  about 
eight  or  ten  minutes  longer.  Add  the 
parsley  and  seasoning,  using  the  white 
pepper.  Take  from  the  fire  and  mix 
well,  and  turn  out  on  a  plate,  and  let  it 
cool.  When  cool,  form  it  into  pretty 
cylinders  of  about  three  inches  in  length 
and  one  and  a  half  in  thickness.  Roll 
these  in  a  beaten  egg,  to  bind,  and  then 
in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 
Drain  and  serve  with  any  daube,  or  with 
any  meat  cooked   with   gravy. 

Bice   Croquettes   With   Fruits. 
Croquettes     de     Riz     aux     Fruits. 

1-2  Cup  of  Rice.     1  Pint  of  Milk. 

2  Large  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 
1-4  Cup  of  Currants.     1-4  Cup  of  Raisins. 

1-4  Cup  of  Citron. 
1-2   Teaspoonful   of  Vanilla    Essence. 

The  Yolks  of  2  Eggs. 
Put  the  milk  into   a  farina  boiler,  and 
add  the  rice  which  you  will  have  washed 
well.     Boil     until     very    thick.     Seed    the 
raisins    and     prepare     the     other     fruits 
Beat  the  eggs  well  and  add  them  to  the 
rice,    and    then    stir    in    the    sugar.     Beat 
until   very  smooth.     Then  take   from   the 
fire,  and  add  the  essence  of  vanilla,  the 
rasi'ns     a,nd     currants,     and     the     citron. 
Turn   out  all   into   a   dish   to   oool.     Then 
form  into  pretty  pyramids,  and  dip  first 
In  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs.     Fry  in  boiling  lard.    Drain  well. 
When  about  to   serve,  put  a  small   piece 
of  Currant  Jelly  on  the  top  of  each  oro 
quette.     Then   dust   the   whole   with  pow- 
dered  sugar,   and   serve  with  'Sauce  a  la 
Vanille.     (Vanilla  Sauce,  see  recipe.) 
Bice    Flonr    Croquettes. 
Croquettes  de  Farine  de   Riz. 
1  Quart  Milk.     1-2  Split  Vanilla  Stick. 
6  Ounces  of  Ground  Rice.     1-4  Pound  of 
■Sugar. 
2  Ounces  Butter.     Yolks  of  8  Eggs. 
1    Ounce    of    Pitieapple.     2    Ounces    of 
Apricots. 
3   Ounces  of  Cherries. 
1  Ounce  of  Orange  Peel.    A  Cream  Sauce. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  and  add  to  i* 
while  boiling  the  split  vanilla  stick.    Take 


out  the  vanilla  after  you  have  cut  all  the 
fruit  and  orange  peel  into  small  dice, 
throwing  away  the  seeds.  Drop  the 
ground  rice  like  a  shower  of  rain  into 
the  boiling  milk,  stirring  it  continuously 
with  a  whisk  of  the  hand.  When  it  be- 
gins to  soften,  set  it  back,  and  let  it  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Then  mix 
in  the  cut  fruits,  and  add  the  butter, 
which  you  will  have  melted.  Add  the 
eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  very  light 
in  the  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  add 
the  orange  peel;  cut  into  quarter  dice. 
When  the  mixture  is  very  light,  set  it  to 
cool,  by  spreading  it  out  on  a  baking 
sheet,  covered  with  white  paper.  When 
cold,  divide  it  into  small  balls,  roll 
these  in  powdered  Macaroons  (see  recipe 
Macaroons),  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  then 
roll  in  white  'bread  crumbs.  Fry  in 
boiling  lard.  Drain  in  a  heated  colan- 
der or  on  a  piece  of  brown  paper.  Then 
dress  the  croquettes  nicely  on  a  dish, 
sprinkle  with  vanilla  sugar,  and  serve 
each  separately,  with  a  Cream  Sauce. 
(See  recipe.)     This  is  a  delicious  dish. 

Bice   Custard. 

Riz  au  L/ait. 

1  Cup   Rice.     3-4   Cup    Sugar.     1-2   GratoJ 

Nutmeg. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 
The  Peel  of  a  Quarter  of  an  Orange,  Cul 
in  Dice. 
Boil  the  rice  very  soft,  and  then  add 
the  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a  good  boil. 
Add  the  orange  peel,  cut  in  quarter  dice. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together 
till  very  light,  and  add  to  the  boiling 
custard.  Cook  for  one  minute  longer. 
Then  take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the 
vanilla  and  one-quarter  of  -  the  grated 
nutmeg.  Place  all  in  a  dish  to  cool. 
Sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  nutmeg, 
and  serve  cold.  This  is  a  famous  Creole 
dish. 

If  you  wish"  to  have  a  baked  custard, 
place  the  custard  in  a  pan  or  in  cups. 
Set  in  the  oven  to  brown,  and  serve  hot, 
with  a  Cream  Sauce.  The  above  amount 
will    fill   about  eight  cups. 

Bice    Dumplings. 
Echaudes  de  Riz. 

It  was  the  old  Creole  negro  cooks  who 
first  evolved  that  famous  Creole  dessert, 
Rice  Dumplings.  They  are  made  as  fol- 
lows: 

1-2  Cup  of  Flour.     3  Cups  of  Ground  Rice. 
8  Apples,  Tart  and  Not  Overripe. 

2  Quarts  of  Milk.     Sugar  and  Cinnamon. 

1-4  of  the  Peel  of  an  Orange. 
1-2  of  a  Grated  Nutmeg. 
Pare  the  apples  and  take  out  the  cores, 
leaving  the  apples  whole.  Take  the 
ground  cinnamon  and  sugar,  and  mix 
well,  and  fill  the  cores  with  this  mixture. 
In  the  meantime  boil  the  rice  in  milk  till 
it  comes  to  the  consistency  of  flour, 
having  added  the  grated  peel  of  an 
orange  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  grated 
nutmeg  and  a  half  cup  of  flour.  Take 
off  the  fire,  and  let  it  cool.  Then  coyer 
each  apple  all  over  with  a  very  thick 
coating  of  the  rice,  and  tie  each  dumpling 
in  a  cloth  very  tightly,  and  put  them  in 
a  pot  of  cold  water.  Bring  the  water  to 
a  quick  boil,  and  boil  the  apples  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When  done, 
untie  the  cloth  and  place  the  dumplings 
carefully  on  a  large  dish.  Sprinkle  each 
with  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  put  on  top 
of  each  a  dot  of  butter,  set  in  the  oven 
for  five  or  ten  minutes  to  brown,  and 
serve  with  a  Hard  or  Cream  Sauce. 
They    are    most    delicious    with    a    Hard 


120 


Sauce.  They  may  be  served  without  set- 
ting in  the  oven,  immediately  after  they 
have  been  taken  from  the  water,  or  they 
may  be  served  cold. 

Ag'ain,  in  large  families,  the  apples 
may  be  cut  in  halves  or  quarters,  and 
boiled  in  the  same  manner,  covering  with 
the  coating  of  rice,  as  in  the  folio-wing 
recipe: 

Apples    and    Bice. 

Riz    a,   la    Conde. 

Take  three  large,  fine  apples,  and  cut 
in  halves.  Pare  and  core.  Then  bake 
in  the  oven  until  quite  done  and  juicy. 
Make  a  Rice  Pudding  (see  recipe),  using 
only  one  cup  of  rice  and  other  ingre- 
dients in  proportion.  When  the  apples 
are  cold,  set  in  a  dish,  placing  each  apple 
over  a  small  bed  of  Rice  Pudding.  Plan 
the  same  quantity  on  top  of  the  apple, 
so  that  it  will  be  inclosed  between  the 
rice  as  in  a  ball.  Serve  in  saucers,  and 
pour  over  each  riced  apple  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Brandy  or  Cream  Sauce. 
OS'ee  Sauces  for  Puddings,  etc.) 

Bice    Merlngrue. 

Meringue  de  Riz. 

1    Cup   Rice.    6   Creole   Eggs.    2    Cups 

Sugar. 

1    Pint    Milk.    2    Tablespoonfuls    Butte-. 

The   Grated   Rind   of  a  Lemon. 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  and  boil 
it  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water.  When 
very  soft,  drain  the  rice  of  all  water  by 

?resslng  throiigh  a  colander,  and  add  it 
o  the  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  the  sugar  together  till  very  light 
and  add  the  butter.  Then  add  the  juice 
and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Place  the  whole  mixture 
into  a  baking  dish,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven.  Beat  the  whivCS 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  gradually  s.^x 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  suga,T 
(white),  beating  them  well  all  the  time. 
Continue  beating  till  the  whites  are  stiff 
enough  to  stand  alone.  Pour  this  over 
the  top  of  the  rice,  and  set  it  back  iu 
the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown.  It 
may  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

Bice  Sonftle. 

Souffle    de    Riz. 

1-4  Pound   of  Sice   Flour.     1-2  Pound   of 

Sugar. 

1-2  Pint  Cream.     6  Fresh  Creole  Eggs. 

1    Teaspoonful    Vanilla.    1-4   Teaspoonful 

Salt. 

The  Grated  Peel  of  Half  an  Orange. 

Boil  the  rice  well,  according  to  recipe, 
and  when  very  soft  add  the  half  pint  of 
cream,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Beat 
the  butter  and  sugar  and  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  together  until  very  light.  Then 
add  the  rice,  which  has  been  boiled  in 
the  milk.  Set  on  the  fire,  and  add  the 
grated  peel  of  a  half  orange,  and  stir 
continually  till  It  thickens.  Add  the 
salt.  Stir  well.  Then  take  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  vanilla.  Have  the  whites  or 
the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  thick  fioth 
Pour  this  over  the  rice.  Set  in  the  oven 
a  few  minutes  to  brown,  and  serve  im- 
mediately while  very  hot,  or  it  will  fall. 

Snowballs. 

Riz   a   la   Nelge. 

1  Cup  Rice.    1  Pint  Milk.     1-4  Cup  White 

Sugar. 

The  Whites   of  Six  Eggs. 

A    Cream    Sauce. 


Boil  the  rice  with  the  milk,  and  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten 
with  the  sugar.  Stir  well,  and  flavor 
with  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  The  mix- 
ture should  be  white  as  snow.  Take  from 
the  fire  as  it  thickens  well^  and  set  in  a 
dish  to  cool.  Form  the  rice  into  small 
balls  of  about  two  and  a  half  inches 
square  (little  "boulettes,"  as  the  Creoles 
call  them).  Have  the  rest  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  powdered  sugar.  Cover  the 
tops  of  the  balls  with  the  mixture  and 
place  in  the  stove  to  heat.  I^et  the  balU 
remain  about  four  minutes,  without 
browning.  Take  out,  and  serve  with  a 
Cream  Sauce  (see  recipe  Sauces  for  Pud- 
dings), or  just  as  they  are. 

Bice  Cream  Padding. 

Pending   de   Riz   a.  la  Creme. 

1  Cup  of  Boiled  Rice.    3-4  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1    Ounce    of   Pineapple.    2    Ounces    of 

Raisins. 

2    Ounces    of    Currants. 

1   Ounce   of  Grated   Orange  Peel. 

1   Quart  of   Milk.     The  Yolks  of  6  Eggs. 

1-4   of  a   Grated  Nutmeg. 

Boil  the  rice  well,  and  then  drain 
through  a  colander  and  set  to  boil  with 
the  milk.  When  it  has  cooked  for  twenty 
minutes,  add  all  the  fruits,  being  careful 
to  have  the  pineapple  cut  into  dice,  and 
the  raisins  seeded,  and  the  currants 
picked,  washed  and  dried.  Then  add  the 
orange  peel  and  grated  nutmeg,  and 
finally  the  eggs,  which  have  been  well 
beaten  in  the  sugar  till  very  light.  Liet 
all  sinimer  for  just  one  minute.  Then 
take  off  the  stove,  place  in  a  baklns  pan, 
and  set  to  brown  nicely  in  a  quick  oven 
for  about  twenty-five  minutes.  When 
well  browned,  have  ready  a  meringue, 
which  you  will  have  made  by  beating  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  froth  (reserve 
the  whites  of  two  eggs),  and  add  to  this 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  white 
sugar.  Spread  all  this  over  the  pudding. 
Let  it  brown  slightly  in  a  hot  oven,  or 
the  meringue  will  fall.  Serve  either  hot 
or  very  cold.  The  pudding  may  be  made 
without  the  addition  of  the  pineapple. 


Frozen  Bice   Castard. 

Creme  de  Riz  Glacee. 

1   Cupful   of   Rice.    1   Quart   of   Milk. 

A  Pint  of  Cream.    1  Cup  of  Sugar. 
1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt.    6    Oranges. 

Prepare  exactly  as  above,  as  far  as 
boiled,  but  omit  the  fruits  and  use  only 
the  grated  rind  of  an  orange  in  making 
the  pudding.  When  cold,  add  the  Jules 
of  an  orange  and  the  cream,  beaten  or 
whipped  to  a  troth.  Four  tablespoonfuls 
of  wine  or  lemon  juice  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  orange  juice,  according  to 
taste.  Then  freeze,  the  same  as  you  would 
ice  cream,  and  serve  with  an  Oranga 
S'auce,   prepared   as   follows: 

Boil  together  for  ten  minutes  one  cup- 
ful of  water,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  the 
grated  yellow  rind  or  zest  of  two  oranges. 
Add  to  this  the  strained  juice  of  four 
oranges.  Cool  and  set  to  freeze.  Boil 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  with  threa 
of  water  for  two  mlhutes.  Beat  this 
into  the  white  of  one  egg,  which  has  al- 
ready been  brought  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir 
this  meringue  into  the  frozen  mixture, 
and  the  sauce  w*'.l  be  ready  to  serve 
xvith  the  pudding  or  custard. 


121 


Bice    With    Compote  k)f   Oranges, 

Riz  a   la  CO'inpote   d'Orangres. 

3-4  Cup  of  Rice.     11-2  Pints  Millc.    1 

Quart  Cream. 

1 1-2   Cups    Sugar. 

Yollcs    of    8    Eggs.     1    Tablespoonful     of 

"Vanilla. 

Tlie    Grated    Peel    of   an    Orange. 

12    Sweet    Louisiana    Oranges.    1    Pound 

Sugar. 
1   Gill   Water.     1-4    of  a   Grated   Nutmeg. 

Wash  the  rice  clean,  and  boil  accord- 
ing to  recipe  in  about  a  pint  and  a  quar- 
ter of  water.  In  half  an  hour  take  off 
and  drain  of  all  water,  and  press  through 
a  sieve.  Then  add  it  to  the  milk,  and  let 
it  boil  slowly  a  half  hour  longer  without 
burning.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  add  the  drain  to  the  rice  or 
milk,  and  set  the  whipped  cream  to  cool 
until  it  is  needed.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  the  sugar  until  they  are  very 
light.  Add  them  to  the  boiling  rice,  stir- 
ring constantly  and  well,  and  let  it  cook 
for  two  minutes,  adding  in  the  meantime 
the  grated  peel  of  the  orange.  Take  the 
mixture  from  the  fire.  Then  add  the 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  and  the  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  set  out  to  cool. 
Remove  the  dasher  from  the  ice  cream 
freezer,  and  when  the  mixture  has  be- 
come very  cool,  turn  it  into  the  freezer 
and  let  it  set  packed  in  rock  salt  and  ice 
for  three  hours. 

In  the  meantime  take  a  dozen  sweet 
Louisiana  oranges,  and  peel  and  cut 
them  crosswise  into  halves.  Take  out 
the  cores  with  the  sharp  point  of  a  pen- 
knife, and  set  them  in  a  dish  ready  for 
use.  Put  a  round  of  sugar  to  boil  with 
one  gill  of  water,  and  after  ten  minutes 
add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Put  a 
few  pieces  at  a  time  of  the  oranges 
Into  this  boiling  liquid,  and  lay  thesm  lOut 
side  by  side  in  a  flat  dish.  Pour  over 
them  the  syrup  that  remains  from  the 
boiling,  and  set  the  dish  in  the  ice  box 
to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  wipe  thor- 
oughly the  outside  of  the  can  that  con- 
tains the  pudding,  and  all  around  the 
edges,  so  as  to  remote  any  traces  of  salt. 
Wet  a  towel  in  boiling  water  and  stand 
the  oan  upon  it.  Open  the  can.  Put  a 
round  dish  on  top,  and  then  turn  quickly 
upside  down,  and  remove  the  can.  If  the 
pudding  adheres,  repeat  the  applications 
of  the  hot  towel  at  the  bottom  and 
around.  Place  the  oranges  on  top  and 
all  around  the  pudding,  and  pour  over 
them  the  syrup,  which  has  become  cool, 
but  not  frozen.  Serve  immediately.  This 
is  one  of  the  most  delicious,  as  well  as 
one  of  the  most  typical  of  our  Louisiana 
methods  of  serving  rice  as  a  dessert. 
Left-Over  Bice. 
Enough  has  been  said  and  written  in 
these  recipes  to  give  an  idea  c-f  the  pos- 
sibilities  of   Louisiana  rice  under   proper 


methods  of  culinary  preparation.  It  en- 
ters into  many  different  combinations  ia 
cooking,  and  among  the  poorer  C'reo'les  of 
large  families  it  takes,  in  a  great  meas- 
ure, the  place  of  bread.  A  meal  of  boiled 
rice,  with  Grillades  a  la  Sauce,  and  Red 
Beans  or  White  Beans,  is  very  popular 
among  the  Creoles,  especially  those  of 
limited  means,  all  of  these  being  good, 
nourishing,  as  well  as  economical,  dishes, 
the  rice  not  only  saving  the  expenditure 
of  money  for  bread,  but  making  a  most 
welcome  and  palatble  substitute.  Tha 
family  that  uses  rice  daily  will  note  the 
economy  that  follOTvs  in  the  purchase 
of   bread. 

Left-over  rice  may  be  utilized  in  al- 
most any  of  the  above  dishes,  but  it  la 
more  generally  used  in  the  making  of 
rice  waffles  or  rice  cakes  for  breakfast, 
Calas,  etc.  It  is  also  fried  or  made  into 
rice    fritters,    as    follows: 

Fried  Bice, 

Riz  Frit. 

Take  the  left-over  rice  from  the  day 
before,  and  cut  it  into  slices  of  proper 
thickness,  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown,  turn- 
ing it  carefully,  to  avoid  breaking  the 
slices.  This  makes  an  excellent  break- 
fast dish,  with  Grillades  a  la  Sauce.  (Sea 
recipe.) 

Bice    Fritters. 

Beignets  de  Riz. 
Take  the  left-over  rice  and  mash  very 
fine.  If  you  have  only  a  cupful,  take 
three  eggs,  a  halt  cup  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  yeast  pcwder,  and  sugar  to 
taste,  and  beat  all  into  a  light,  thick  bat- 
ter. Cook  by  dropping  a  spoonful  at  a 
time  into  boiling  lard.  This  is  a  sweet 
entremet,  as  also  an  excellent  breakfast 
dish. 

Parched  Bice. 

Riz  Grille. 
Rice  may  be  parched  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  popcorn.  It  is  a  method  of  cook- 
ing rice  that  came  to  New  Orleans  from 
the  West  Indies,  and  was  brought  into 
general  use  by  the  San  Domingo  refu- 
gees, who  came  to  New  Orleans  in  num- 
bers after  the  great  insurrection.  When 
the  culture  of  rice  became  general  in  th4 
Southwestern  parishes  of  our  State,  these 
old  settlers  began  to  give  rice-parching 
parties,  and  they  became  very  fashiona- 
ble. The  Creole  children  and  the  belles 
and  beaux  of  eighty  years  ago  enjoyed 
parching  rice  just  as  much  as  Northern 
children,  youths  and  maidens  enjoy 
roasting  chestnuts  or  parching  corn.  Rice 
is  parched  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
Creoles  parch  popcorn.  The  parched 
grain  of  rice  becomes  a  beautiful  open 
ball,  which  is  eaten  with  salt  or  sugar, 
and  is  very  delicious. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 


CEBEALS. 


Under  the  heading  of  Cereals  are 
classed  Wheat,  Bye,  Barley.  Oats,  Corn, 
Maize  or  Indian  Corn,  Buckwheat  ano 
Rice.  Rice  being  one  of  our  great  Lou- 
isiana  staples,  and  the  proper  methods  of 
preparing  it  so  little  known,  has  been  sep- 
arately treated  in  the  preceding  chapter. 
The  other  Cereals  are  in  general  use  in 
every  section  of  our  country,  and  will 
require  less   amplification. 


WHEAT. 

Du    Froment. 

On  account  of  its  universal  consump- 
tion and  great  nutritive  qualities,  Wheat 
is  considered  the  principal  cereal.  In  the 
form  of  bread.  It  has  long  been  distin- 
guished as  the  "Staff  of  Life." 

The  structure  of  the  grain,  like  that 
of    other    cereals,    consists    of    a    gritty. 


122 


woody  center  covering,  which  is  indiges- 
tible, and  which  is  gotten  rid  of,  after 
the  grain  has  been  ground,  by  "sifting."' 
In  the  w^hole  wheat  grain  is  found  a 
perfect  food,  for  it  contains  all  that  is 
necessary  to  support  life — starch,  gluten 
sugar,  nitrogenous  and  carbonaceous 
matter,  water,  salts,  potash,  soda,  lime, 
phosphoric  acid,  magnesia,  etc. 

In  what  is  called  "whole  meal,"  the 
bran  and  pollards  derived  from  the  oute»' 
covering  are  retained.  From  this  wheat 
is  made  "Brown  Bread,"  and  though  this 
kind  of  bread  contains  far  more  nitro- 
genous matter  than  white  bread,  it  is  not 
in  general  use,  on  account  of  its  ind'- 
gestibility.  It  should  never  be  eaten  by 
persc-ns  of  weak  digestion. 

Wheat  contains  a  gluten,  which  is  a 
gray,  elastic,  tough  substance.  This  glu- 
ten is  especially  abundant  in  wheat 
grown  in  warm  climates.  From  this 
gluten  paste  Macaroni  and  Vermicelli  are 
made. 

Cracked    Wheat. 

Froment    Creve. 

1  CuT>  of  Cracked  Wheat. 

1   Quart  of  Water. 

1   1  easpoonful  of  Salt. 

Under  the  name  of  "Cracked  Wheat" 
there  is  sold  in  the  markets  whole  wheat 
grains,  which  are  cooked  by  boiling  in  a 
double  boiler  until  the  entire  envelope  of 
the  grain  bursts  open.  It  will  require 
four  h'ours  of  good  boiling,  therefore,  it 
is  best  to  soak  the  grain  over  night  i*i 
a  quart  of  cold  water.  In  the  morning 
set  the  kettle  containing  the  grain  In 
another  kettle  of  cold  w^ater,  add  the  salt, 
and  let  it  gradually  heat  and  boil  for  at 
least  an  hour  and  a  half.  It  should  be 
thoroughly  cooked.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream  for  breakfast. 

FARINA. 

Fecule. 

1-2  Cup  of  Farina. 

1  Quart  of  Water  or  Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Add  the  salt  to  the  milk  or  water,  and 
then  sift  in  slowly  sufficient  Farina  to 
make  a  thick  gruel.  Set  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  let  it  cook  for  about  a  half 
hour,  stirring  frequently  while  it  boils. 

Farina   Groel. 

Gruau    de    Fecule. 

1    Cup    o^    Boiling    Water. 

1  Cup  of  Fresh  Milk. 

1  Large  Tablespoonful  of  Farina. 

2    Tablesipoonfuls     of     White     Sugar. 

In  preparing  this  splendid  food  for  in- 
fants, take  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  one 
cup  of  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Slightly 
salt  the  water.  Set  one  boiler  within 
another,  the  latter  boiler  being  filled 
with  boiling  water.  iStir  the  Farina  into 
the  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil, 
stirring  constantly,  till  it  thickens.  Then 
add  the  milk,  stirring  it  gradually,  and 
let  It  boll  about  fifteen  minutes  longer. 
Sweeten,  and  when  it  is  cool  give  to  the 
child.  Enough  may  be  made  to  last  all 
day.  W^arm,  when  it  is  needed,  with  a 
little  boiling  milk. 

RYF. 

Selgle. 

Rye  meal,  once  such  a  common  article 
of  food  in  New  Orleans,  is  still  extensive- 
ly used  by  the  German  population,  both 
In  making  Rye  Bread  and  in  making  Rye 
Mush.  As  regards  nutritive  quality.  Rye 
ranks  slightly  less  than  flour. 


Bye  Mush. 

Bouille  de  Seigle. 

3-4   Cup   of  Rye   Meal. 
1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water. 

Sift  the  meal  Into  the  boiling  water, 
and  stir  constantly  while  doing  so.  Add 
the  salt,  and  continue  stirring  till  the 
mixture  begins  to  boil.  Then  cover  and 
let  it  cook  slowly  for  at  least  an  hour 
and  a  quarter.  Serve  hot  for  breakfast, 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

OATS. 

Avoine. 

From  Oats,  which  are  used  so  exten- 
sively as  food  for  beasts,  is  produced 
Oatmeal,  which  heads  the  list  of  flesh- 
producing  and  strengthening  grains,  be 
ing  far  richer  than  flour  in  nitrogen  and 
fat,  and,  therefore,  more  nutritious.  Witli 
oatmeal  porridge  for  breakfast,  oatmeal 
cakes  for  dinner,  milk,  potatoes  and  a 
few  vegetables,  the  hard-working  labor- 
er or  brain  worker  need  require  little 
else  for  sustenance  from  year's  end  to 
year's  end. 

Oatmeal. 

Gruau    d' Avoine. 

1  Cup  of  Oatmeal. 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

It  is  best  to  soak  the  oatmeal,  when  the 
coarse  Scotch  Oats  are  used,  over  night. 
Then  cook  for  a  half  hour  in  the  morn- 
ing, boling  constantly,  and  salt  to  taste 
If  the  oatmeal  is  not  soaked,  it  will  re- 
quire at  least  an  hour  to  cook.  It  bums 
very  easily,  and,  therefore,  it  is  always 
best  to  set  in  a  double  boiler.  Serve 
with  cream. 

Steamed   OatmeaL 

Gruau  d' Avoine  a   la  Vapeur. 

1   Teacupful    of  Oatmeal. 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

Add  the  oatmeal  to  the  water,  and  then 
add  the  salt,  and  set  the  steaming  vessel 
over  a  pot  of  cold  water,  and  let  it 
gradually  heat,  and  then  steam  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Keep  closely  covered. 
When  done,  serve  with  cream. 

Oat    Flakes. 

Flocons  d' Avoine. 

1   Teacupful    of    Oat   Flakes. 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

This  delicate  preparation  from  oatmeal 
is  prepared  by  putting  the  quart  of  wa- 
ter into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan,  and 
letting  it  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  salt, 
and  when  it  is  boiling  stir  in  gradually 
the  oat  flakes.  Keep  stirring  to  prevent 
burning.  Let  the  preparation  boil  for 
about  fifteen  cr  twenty  minutes,  and 
serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  simply 
cream  or  milk. 

CORN. 

Du    Mais. 

Under  this  heading  are  included  Com 
proper  and  our  own  Indian  Corn,  or 
Maize.  From  these  come  such  staple 
dishes  as  "Grits,"  "Big  Hominy,"  "UttJe 
Hominy,"    "Lye    Hominy"    or   "Samp." 

Corn  contains  far  greater  force-pro- 
ducing and  fattening  matter  than 
Wheat.  S'cientists  declare  that  cornmeal 
contains  six  times  as  much  oil  as  wheat. 
Corn  Bread  Is,  therefore,  an  excellent 
winter   diet,   as   also    the   delicate   "Grits* 


123 


and  "Big  and  Small  Hominy."  "Samp" 
or  "Lye  Hominy,"  is  used  throughout  the 
summer,  as  it  is  less  heating.  Prepara- 
tions of  Corn  are  among  the  cheapest.  If 
not  the  very  cheapest  articles  of  food,  and 
considering  their  high  nutritive  value, 
are  especially  recommended  to  the  fam- 
ilies of  the  poor.  But,  whether  rich  or 
poor,  there  are  few  Creole  families  In 
New  Orleans  who  sit  to  breakfast  with- 
out a  good  dish  of  Grits  or  Hominy. 

GRITS. 

Du    Gru. 

Under  the  heading  of  Corn  might  prop- 
erly be  classed  the  white  com  grits, 
without  which  no  breakfast  In  Louisiana 
is  considered  complete.  Grits  is  no[ 
only  used  for  breakfast,  but  may  ap- 
pear on  the  table  several  times  a  day, 
the  left-over  grits  from  breakfast  being 
utilized  either  in  dainty  cakes  or  entre- 
mets, or  else  warmed  over  and  served 
with  gravies.  Grits  is  the  ,^ound  dried 
com.  'We  have  yellow  grits,  or  grits 
from  which  the  outer  yellow  covering  of 
the  corn  has  not  been  removed,  and 
white  grits,  the  latter  considered  the 
daintier  preparation.  From  these  comes 
the  "Small  Hominy,"  or  corn  ground  to 
superfineness.  Grits  are  always  boiled. 
Left-over  may  be  fried  or  warmed  up 
again,  or  beaten  with  eggs  and  milk  and 
baked.     This  is  a  most  delicious  dish. 

BoUed    OritB. 

Du    Gru    Bouilli. 

2   Cups    of   Grits. 

2    Quarts    of    Water.     2    Teaspoonfuls    of 

Salt. 

Wash  the  grits  in  fresh  cold  water, 
and  throw  off  the  refuse.  Waan  again 
and  drain.  Into  two  quarts  of  cold  wa- 
ter put  the  grits.  Add  the  salt,  and  stir 
frequently  while  they  are  coming  to  the 
boiling  point.  Then  set  back  on  the 
stove  and  let  them  cook  slowly  for  about 
an  hour.  It  must  be  of  the  consistency 
of  a  very  thick  starch,  or  drier,  if  pre- 
ferred. For  invalids  it  may  be  cooked 
like  a  cornmeal  mush.  Serve  hot,  with 
any  meat,  with  gravy,  or  serve  with  milk, 
as  oatmeal,  as  a  preliminary  to  break- 
fast, or,  again,  simply  eat  with  butter. 
In  any  manner  in  which  they  are  served 
they  are  always  rellshable  and  palatable. 
If  half  imilk,  instead  of  water,  is  added 
in  cooking,  the  dish  is  all  the  more  de- 
licious. 

-Baked  Grita. 

Du  Gru  aux  Oeufs. 

1    Cup    of    Grits. 

1-2  Quart  of  Water.     1-2  Quart   of  Milk. 

2    Eggs.    Salt    to    Taste. 

Boil  the  grits  in  the  water  and  milk, 
mixed.  Season,  and  when  quite  dry,  take 
off  the  stove  and  let  it  cool  a  little.  Beat 
the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  and 
when  the  grits  is  cool  beat  in  the  yolks, 
and  blend  thoroughly.  Then  add  the 
whites,  and  beat  till  very  light.  Add  a 
gill  of  cream.  Set  in  an  oven  and  baka 
to  a  beautiful  brown,  and  serve  hot. 
This  Is  an  ideal  Creole  breakfast  dish. 
Cold  grits  may  be  thus  utilized. 

HOAUNir. 

Saccamlte. 

Hominy  is  called  by  the  Creoles  the 
older  sister  of  Grits.  It  was  the  Indians 
abound  Louisiana  who  first  taught  the 
use  of  hominy.  They  used  to  take  all 
thie  dried  Indian  corn  and  thrash  It  till 
alj    the  yellow,   hardened  outer   germ   or 


hull  came  off,  the  grain  being  left  white. 
Then  they  would  bring  the  large  whit- 
ened grains  into  the  city  to  sell.  Hominy 
became  a  great  industry,  and  was  exten- 
sively manufactured  and  sold  all  over 
the  South.  It  was  the  chief  food  of  the 
Southern  negroes.  But  it  was  also  a 
standing  dish  on  the  most  elegant  tables. 
The  little  Creole  children  were  reared  on 
"La  Saccamite."  The  hominy  was  boiled 
in  water  in  the  same  proportions  as  grits, 
but,  of  course,  allowed  to  cook  much 
lon:ger,  till  the  great  white  grains  of  com 
were  very  soft,  and  yielded  easily  to 
pressure.  It  is  still  cooked  in  the  same 
way,  and  eaten  with  milk  or  with  sugar, 
the  latter  being  a  favorite  dish  with  the 
Creole  children.  It  is  also  eaten  with 
meat  and  gravy,  or  simply  with  salt  and 
butter.  Left-over  hominy  is  utilized  in 
making  hominy  griddle  cakes. 

We  have  also  "Lye  Hominy,"  or  Hom- 
iny soaked  in  Lye  till  the  coarse  outer 
germ  comes  off.  This  is  the  great  sum- 
mer dish  of  the  city  and  parishes.  The 
hominy  is  made  in  the  parishes,  and 
shipped  to  New  Orleans.  It  is  also 
pounded  and  used  for  making  "Lye  Hom- 
iny Bread." 

BoUed    Hominy. 

La    Saccamlte    Boulllie. 

1  Pint  of  Hominy. 
2  Quarts  erf  Water.     Salt  to  Taste. 

Hominy  should  always  be  soaked  over 
night  in  cold  water.  Wash  the  hominy, 
and  put  into  two  quarts  of  water  to  soak. 
In  the  morning  turn  both  hominy  and 
water  into  a  saucepan,  and  let  it  boil 
slowly  for  three  or  four  hours.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  cream.  It  may  also  ba 
eaten  with  butter  and  salt  and  pepper. 

Hominy  Croquettes. 

La   Saccamite   en   Croquettes. 

These     are     made     from    the     left-over 

hominy.     They    are    prepared    in    exactly 

the     same     manner     as     rice     croquettes. 

(See    recipe.)     Grits    may    be    made    into 

croquettes  in  the  same  manner. 

Fried    Grits    or    Hominy. 

Gru    ou    Saccamite    Frlte. 

To  fry  .grits  or  hominy,  after  the  grain 
is  boiled,  let  it  cool.  Then  season  with 
sMt  and  pepper,  and  spread  on  a  biscuit 
board.  When  jperfectly  cold  cut  Into 
slices  and  dust  each  slice  with  a  little 
flour.  Brush  again  with  a  beaten  egg, 
and  try  in  lard  till  a  light  brown. 
Lye  Hominy  or  Samp. 
S'accamite  a.  la  Lessive. 

This  is  an  old-fashioned  Creole  way  of 
preparing  hulled  corn.  It  is  and  has 
been  much  in  vogue  for  many  genera- 
tions throughout  rural  Louisiana.  Th« 
corn  is  allowed  to  get  very  ripe,  put  to 
dry,  and  then  hulled.  It  is  then  allowed 
to  lie  for  many  days,  spread  out  upon  a 
cloth,  till  thoroughly  dried.  An  immense 
pot  -s  then  filled  with  water,  and  a  bag 
containing  at  least  a  quart  or  more  of 
hardwood  ashes  is  put  into  it.  A  good 
peck  of  the  old,  ripe,  dry,  hulled  com  is 
thrown  in,  and  it  is  allowed  to  soak  for 
at  least  twenty-four  hours.  The  com  Is 
then  put  to  boil  in  these  ashes  till  the 
husks  or  outer  germs  come  off  easily. 
Then  the  corn  is  thrown  into  the  cold 
water  and  divested  of  the  hulls  by  thor- 
ough rubbing  with  the  hands.  It  is  then 
washed  in  four  or  five  waters,  till  every 
taste  of  potash  disappears. 

Another  way  the  Creoles  of  rural  Lou- 
isiana   have    of    preparing    Lye    Hominy 


124 


is  to  dilute  the  strong  lye  in  water,  and 
then  boil  the  corn  in  this  till  the  hull 
comes  off.  After  thoroughly  washing, 
the  -com  prepared  after  either  way  Is 
sent  in  large  quantities  to  New  Orleans, 
as  well  as  used  for  home  consumption. 
In  cooking  Lye  Hominy,  it  is  either 
boiled  in  water  until  the  kernels  are 
soft,  as  in  other  recipes  for  Hominy, 
making  a  delicious  dish  when  served 
with  milk,  or  cream.,  or  it  is  ground  or 
pounded  into  a  flour,  from  which  is  made 
that  famous  Louisiana  breakfast  offer- 
ing, "Lye  Hominy  Bread."  (See  recipe 
under  chapter  on  Breads.)  This  flour 
also  finds  a  ready  sale  among  the  Cre- 
oles during  summer. 

Cornmeal     Mnsh. 
Bouillie  de  Farine  de  Mais. 

1 1-2  Cups  of  Cornmeal. 
2  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water. 
1 1-2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt. 

Set  the  water  to  boil  in  a  porcelain- 
lined  or  agate  stewpot;  add  the  salt,  and 
when  the  light  scum,  comes  on  top  skim 
it  C'ff.  Then  add  the  fresh,  sweet  white 
cornmeal,  putting  a  handful  at  a  time 
into  the  water,  and  stirring  with  a  spoon 
or  a  pudding  stick,  round  and  round,  a.^ 
the  meal  falls  lightly  from  the  hand. 
When  one  handful  is  exhausted,  refill  it. 
and  continue  stirring  and  letting  thp 
meal  fall  by  degl'ees,  until  the  puddim? 
stick  will  stand  in  it.  This  is  the  test. 
Continue  stirring,  and  when  sufficiently 
cooked,  which  will  be  in  a  half  hour,  as 
the  bubbles  begin  to  puff  up,  turn  into 
a  bowl,  bring  to  the  table  (either  hot  or 
cold)  and  eat  with  milk,  butter,  sugar, 
syrup  or  with  meat  and   gravy. 

In  preparing  this  as  a  gruel  for  in- 
fants, take  one-half  cup  of  cornmeal,  a 
quart  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  at  least 
one  hour,  stirring  often.  When  done, 
soften  with  boiled  new  milk,  sweeten  to 
taste  and  feed  the  infant  with  a  spoon. 

Graham  Meal  Mush  is  prepared  in  the 
same  manner  as  either  of  the  above  re- 
cipes. 

Milk    Porridge. 

Bouillie   de   Lait. 

2   Tablespoonfuls   of  Indian  Meal. 
1   Spoon    of   White   Flour. 


3    Cups    of    Milk. 

1 1-2    Cups    of    Boiling    Water. 

A   Pinch   of  Salt. 

Bring  the  flour  to  a  paste  with  a  little 
cold  water,  and  also  scald  the  meal  with 
a  little  hot  water.  Have  the  water  boil- 
ing in  the  proportion  given  above;  add 
the  meal,  and  then  add  the  flour,  stirring 
constantly.  Then  let  it  boil  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  and  add  the  pinch  of 
salt  and  the  milk,  stirring  almost  con- 
stantly; then  let  all  cook  for  ten  minutes 
more,  stirring  often.  Serve  while  hot, 
with  sugar  and  milk.  This  is  excellent 
for  little  children  and  invalids. 

BABLET. 

Orge. 

Barley  is  extensively  used  by  the  Cre- 
oles, especially  in  summer,  for  making 
soups.  A  good  barley  soup  is  consid- 
ered not  only  a  most  nutritious  dish,  but 
a  very  cooling  one,  and  especially  suited 
to  a  summer  diet.  A  half  cupful  U 
thrown  into  the  soup.  (See  recipe  for 
Barley  Soup.)  Barley  water  is  also  ex- 
tensively used  to  cool  the  system,  and 
also  for  delicate  infants,  with  whom  very 
often  even  sterilized  milk  does  not  agree, 
and  it  is  found  absolutely  necessary  to 
substitute  some  other  article  of  diet.  The 
Creole  mothers  first  soak  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  barley  in  a  little  cold  water  for 
about  an  hour,  and  then,  without  drain- 
ing, pour  this  into  the  boiling  water, 
which  has  been  very  slightly  salted.  This 
water  is  stirred  very  frequently  and  al- 
lowed to  simmer  for  at  least  an  hour. 
It  is  then  strained  and  sweetened  before 
it  is  used.  Barley  thus  prepared  is  used 
extensively  for  invalids.  Barley  must  al- 
ways be  picked  over  and  washed  thor- 
oughly in  several  waters  before  using, 
and  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water. 

BUCKWHEAT. 

PVoment   de   Sarrasin. 

Buckwheat  is  not  by  any  means  a  nu- 
tritive food,  being  far  inferior  to  wheat 
and  corn.  It  is  never  eaten  alone,  but 
in  combination  with  flour,  is  used  in 
making  that  delightful  breaKfast  ac- 
companiment, "Buckwheat  Cakes."  (See 
recipe,  under  Chapter  on  Breads.) 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 
MACABONI. 


Macaroni. 


Macaroni  is  a  general  article  of  food 
in  New  Orleans  among  the  rich  and  the 
poor.  It  is  very  cheap,  and  is  a  most  ex- 
cellent dish.  We  have  in  New  Orleans 
large  Macaroni  factories,  where  not  only 
Macaroni  is  made  by  the  Italians  them- 
•selves,  but  the  twin  sisters  of  Macaroni, 
■S'paghetti  and  Vermicelli,  are  also  manu- 
factured fresh  dailv.  While  there  Is  no 
city  in  the  United  States  in  which  Ma- 
caroni is  cooked  in  real  Italian  style  but 
New  Orleans,  which  has  long  been  a  fa- 
vored point  of  migration  for  the  sons  of 
sunny  Italy,  the  Creole  cooks  have  modi- 
fied and  improved  upon  the  Italian 
methods,  so  that  Macaroni  a  la  Creole  is 
just'  as  famous  a  dish  as  Macaroni  a 
ritalienne,  and  by  many  considered  far 
superior. 

How  to  Boil  Macaroni 

Avoid  breaking  the  macaroni  as  much 
as  possible.  Immerse  it  whole  In  a  large 
saucepan  of  boiling  water;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  butter.  Lot 
the  macaroni  cook  from  twenty  to  twen- 


ty-five minutes;  remove  from  the  fire 
and  drain  in  a  colander.  If  not  intended 
for  immediate  use,  cover  at  once  with 
cold  water.     AVhen  cool,  drain  and  use  as 

needed. 

Boiled    Macaroni,    Italian    Style. 

Macaroni  a  Tltalienne. 

1-2    Pound    of    Macaroni. 

1  Pound  of  Grated  Parmesan  Cheese. 

1    Tablespoonful    Flour. 

1     Tablespoonful     Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  convenient 
lengths,  and  set  to  boil  in  a  kettle  filled 
with  boiling  water  and  in  which  you 
have  thrown  a  spoonful  of  salt  and  black 
pepper.  Be  careful  to  keep  the  lengths 
of  macaroni  firm.  When  cooked  till  ten- 
der, take  off  and  strain  the  water.  Take 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour  and  put  them  on  the  fire,  blending 
well.  Have  one  pound  of  Parmesan 
cheese  grated;  add  one-half  of  it  to  tUs 
flour    and    butter,    and    one    pint    of    tbe 


125 


water  in  wJiich  the  macaroni  was  boiled; 
the  mixture  must  not  be  allowed  to 
brown;  stir  briskly.  Place  the  macaroni 
by  lengths  into  a  dish,  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  warm  a  few  min~ 
utes  in  the  oven.  When  warm,  take  out 
the  dish  and  sprinkle  over  it  one- 
quarter  of  the  pound  of  cheese  that  still 
remains;  pour  the  hot  sauce  over  this, 
and  sfirinkle  the  rest  of  the  cheese  on 
top;  serve  hot. 

Boiled    Spag-hettl,    Italian    Style. 

Spaghetti   a   I'ltalienne. 

1-2    Pound    of   Spaghetti. 

1  Pound  of  Grated  Parmesan  Cheese. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

Spaghetti  a  I'ltalienne  is  prepared  in 
the  sam.e  manner  as  in  the  above  recipe. 
S"pag[hetti  is  a  more  delicate  form  of  mac- 
aroni. 

The  Italians  in  New  Orleans  also  simply 
boil  the  macaroni  or  spaghetti  as  men- 
tioned above,  sprinkle  it  with  grated 
cheese  and  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
with  a  rich  tomato  sauce  (see  recipe), 
and  grated  cheese,  the  latter  served  in 
separate  plated.  This  latter  is  a  very 
rich  dish. 

Macaroni  or  Spaghetti  thus  cooked  is 
served  with  daube  and  is  a  very  palata- 
ble dish. 

Macaroni  With  Tomato  Sauce. 

Macaroni    a    la    Sauce    Tomate. 

1-2   Pound    of    Macaroni. 

1    Gill    of    Tomato    Sauce. 

1  Gill  of  Madeira  Sauce  or  Wine. 

1-4   Pound    of    Grated    Parmesan    Cheese. 

1  Onion.    1   Tablespoonful    of  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

A  Dash  of  Cayenne. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  salted  water  for 
twenty  minutes,  adding  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  an  onion,  wiith  two  cloven 
stuck  in  it.  Then  drain  the  macaroni  of 
all  water;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
gill  of  Tomato  Sauce  and  one  of  Ma  - 
deira  Sauce  or  Madeira  wine.  Add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper; 
add  a  dash  of  Cayenne,  and  let  the  mix- 
ture cook  slowly  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes, tossing  frequently  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Place  the  Macaroni  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  with 
•grated  Parmesan  cheese  passed  in  a  sep- 
arate dish.  Spaghetti  may  be  prepared 
and  served  in  the  same  manner. 

Macaroni,    Creole   Style. 

Macaroni  a.  la  Creole. 

1-2  Pound  of  Macaroni. 

1-2    Can    of    Tomatoes,    or    6    Fresh    Ones. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    Flour. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Bc'il  the  macaroni  according  to  the  re- 
cipe given  above.  WTien  done,  drain 
through  a  colander  without  breaking  the 
lengths.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
a  frying  pan  and  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour;  blend  well  and  as  it  browns  add 
the  tcmatoes,  which  have  been  chopped 
■fine  in  their  own  juice.  Let  this  stew, 
after  stirring  well  for  about  ten  minutes, 
and  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  the  mac- 
aroni   or   spaghetti,    mixing   well   without 


brcP/king  the  lengths.  Let  it  boil  up  once, 
an(^  then  serye  hot.  The  dish  may  be 
served   with  any  meats. 

Manaronl  or  Spaghetti,  Milanalse  Style. 

Macaroni    ou    Spaghetti    a,    la    Milanaise. 

1-2    Pound    of    Macaroni. 
1-4   Pound    of    Cold    Boiled   Ham. 

1  Pound  of  Grated  Parmesan  Cheese. 

1    Onion.     2    Cloves    of    Garlic. 
1   Can   Tomatoes. 

2  Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme  and  Parsley. 

1    Bay    Leaf. 
Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  water  and  salt 
as  in  the  recipe  given  for  Boiling  Mac- 
aroni. When  tender,  drain  well  through 
a  colander.  In  the  meantime,  while  it  is 
boiling,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  and  as  it  melts  add  the 
grated  onion.  Let  this  brown,  and  then 
add  the  ham  which  you  will  have  minced 
very  fine.  Let  this  brown;  add  the 
cloves  of  garlic,  minced  very  fine,  and 
the  herbs,  minced  very  fine.  Then 
add  almost  immediately,  as  these  begin 
to  brown,  for  bay  leaf  burns  quickly, 
a  half  can  of  tomatoes,  or  six  fresh  large 
tomatoes.  To  this,  as  it  stews,  add  a 
half  pound  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  let  all  stew  for  about  ten  minutes; 
then  add  the  macaroni  or  spaghetti,  and 
let  all  simmer  gently  for  about  twenty 
minutes  longer.  Serve  hot,  and  pass  at 
the  same  time  a  small  plate  of  grated 
Parmesan    cheese    to    each    person. 

Macaroni,    Neapolitan    Style. 

Macaroni    a    la    Napolitaine. 

1-2    Pound    of    Macaroni. 

1-4  Pint   of  Sauce   Espagnole. 

1-4  Pint  of  Tomato  Sauce. 

1-4    Pound    of    Grated    Parmesan    Cheese. 

6   Mushrooms.     2   Truffles. 

1  Ounce  of  Smoked  Beef  Tongue. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1-4  Bottle  of  Claret. 

1    Carrot.     1    Herb    Bouquet. 

2  Sprigs  of  Celery. 

Boil  the  macaroni,  and  cut  into  pieces 
of  about  two  inches  long,  after  draining 
thoroughly.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  half  pint  of  Tomato  Sauce  and  S'auce 
Espagnole  (see  recipe),  and  add  the 
cheese.  Add  the  herb  bouquet,  tied  to- 
gether; cut  the  truffles  and  mushrooms 
and  carrot  into  dice-shaped  pieces;  mince 
the  celery  and  add ;  then  add  the  beef 
tongue  cut  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces. 
To  this  add  the  Claret.  Let  all  cook  for 
about  fifteen  minutes,  tossing  frequently 
in  the  meantime.  When  ready  to  serve, 
remove  the  herb  bouquet  and  send  to  the 
table   hot. 

Macaroni    an    Gratin. 

Macaroni    au    Gratin. 

1-2   Pound   of  .Macaroni   or   Spaghetti. 

1    Pound    of    Parmesan    Cheese    (Grated). 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Flour. 

1     Tablespoonful     of    Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  macaroni  by  its  length  in  wa- 
ter until  soft.  Do  not  let  it  cook  too 
much,  but  just  enough  to  be  soft,  and 
lift  out  of  the  water  without  breaking. 
This  will  require  about  a  half  hour  of 
rapid  boiling.  When  done,  take  out  of 
the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  and 
season  well  with  salt  and  black  pepper. 
Put    a    tablespoonful    of    butter,    blended 


126 


well  with  flour,  Into  a  pint  of  milk.  Let 
it  boil  two  minutes.  PIa,oe  a  layer  of 
the  spaghetti  or  nriacaroni  in  the  pan  in 
which  it  is  to  be  baked,  seasoning  again 
to  taste,  and  mix  in  a  layer  of  the 
grated  cheese;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt;  then  put  in  alternately  a  layer  of 
the  macaroni  and  a  layer  of  cheese,  and 
so  on  until  three-fourths  of  the  cheese 
is  used.  Do  not  break  the  macaroni  or 
spaghetti.  Pour  over  this  the  boiling 
milk.  Take  the  remaining  quarter  pound 
of  cheese  and  sprinkle  thickly  on  top, 
dot  here  and  there  with  bits  of  butter, 
and  put  in  a  quick  oven  and  let  it  bake 
to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  was  baked.  In  cooking  mac- 
aroni or  spaghetti,  cream  or  milk  may 
be  used  always  instead  of  water,  using 
a  pint  of  either  in  the  above  proportions. 
If  you  have  not  the  milk,  a  pint  of  the 
water  in  which  the  macaroni  was  boiled 
will  answer  equally  well.  This  recipe 
is  highly  recommended  as  the  nicest  way 
of  i>reparing  macaroni. 


Macaroni    or    Spaghetti    With    Daube. 

Daube  au  Macaroni  ou  au  Spaghetti. 

1-2  Poun,d  of  Macaroni, 

A   Veal    or    Beef    Daube. 

1    Pint    of    Hot    "Water    or    Broth. 

This  is  a  popular  Creole  dish,  and  a 
very  good  one,  too.  Prepare  a  daube. 
(See  recipe,  "Boeuf  a  la  Mode  ou 
Daube").  After  it  has  cooked  about  an 
hour  and  a  salf,  and  is  about  two-thirds 
done,  add  the  macaroni  according  to  the 
number  to  be  served,  using  between  a 
quarter  and  a  half  pound  for  six,  and 
cutting  the  macaroni  into  lengths  of 
about  five  inches,  to  facilitate  serving, 
liet  it  boil  for  about  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  In  the  daube,  and  if  you  see,  on 
adding  It,  that  there  is  not  sufficient 
gravy  for  it  to  cook  well,  add  a  half  pint 
or  a  pint  more  of  hot  water  or  hot  broth, 
according  as  the  macaroni  appears  to 
absorb  after  it  has  been  in  the  pot  four 
or  five  minutes.  Cook  Ttntil  very  tender, 
and  on  serving  place  the  daube  in  the 
center  of  the  dish  and  heap  the  macaroni 
around. 

Chicken  and  macaroni  may  be  pre- 
pared In  the  same  way.  Both  are  excel- 
lent and  favorite  New  Orleans  ways  of 
serving  macaroni.  They  are  also  very 
healthy  and  nutritious  family  dishes. 

Spaghetti  may  also  be  cooked  in  either 
of  these  ways,  and  makes  a  more  deli- 
cate dish. 


Tlmbale  of  Macaroni. 

Macaroni  en  Timbale. 

1-4   Pound  of  Macaroni   or  Spaghetti. 

1    Head    of    Bdam's    Cheese. 

1-2    Pound    of    Grated    Parmesan    Cheese. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Nearly    every   family   keeps   a   head   of 
Edam's    cheese    for    general    use.     When 
you  have  finished  scooping  out  the  cheese 
do  not  throw  away  the  head,  but  keep  it 
to    make    a    Timbale    Macaroni.     Boil    a 
little    over    one-quarter    of    a    pound    of 
macaroni,    or   sufficient  to   fill  the   head, 
according  to  the  above  directions  (Boiled 
Macaroni).     Wlien  boiled,  take  out  of  the 
water    and    set    in    a    dish.    Take    about 
half   a    pint   of   the   liquor   in   which  the 
macaroni  was  boiled,  strain  It  and  set  it 
back    on    the    stove;    add    the    flour    and 
butter  blended,  and  three-quarters  of  the 
grated   cheese,    and   let   it  boil   five  min- 
utes.    Then     pour     this     sauce     over    the 
macaroni  in  the  dish  and  mix  well,  sea- 
soning   with    salt    and    pepper    to    taste. 
Fill    the    head    with     this    mixture,    and 
sprinkle    on    top    the    rest    of   the    grated 
cheese.     Set    In    the    stove    to    bake,    and, 
when  nicely  browned,  serve  hot  from  the 
shell    of   the    cheese.     The  macaroni   may 
also  be  baked   in  molds,  but  there  Is  no 
comparison    to    the    Timbale    when    mad<* 
in  the  empty  cheese  head.     This  is  a  gen- 
uine Timbale  of  Macaroni,  and"  the  only 
way  to  really  make  the  dish. 
Macaroni    Balls. 
Bouletfes  de  Macaroni. 
1    Cup   of  Cold    Boiled   Macaroni. 
1   Cup    Boiling   Milk'.     1    Tablespoonful 
Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    Flour. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Grated    Cheese. 

The  Tolks  of  4  Eggs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Put  the  butter  Into  a  saucepan,  and  as 
it  melts  add  the  flour;  do  not  let  it 
brown.  Add  the  cup  of  boiling  milk  and 
stir  well.  When  It  begins  to  thicken  add 
the  grated  cheese,  and  lei  It  simmer  for 
a  few  minutes  longer;  then  take  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs.  Have  the  macaroni  cut  Into  tiny 
bits  and  work  it  well  into  this  mixture. 
Then  set  It  aside  to  cool.  When  cold, 
take  a  little  flour,  rub  it  on  your  hands, 
and  form  the  macaroni  into  small  balls 
about  two  inches  in  length  and  one  In 
thickness.  Dip  the  balls  into  a  well- 
beaten  egg,  roll  well  and  then  roll  In 
grated  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling 
lard,   and   serve  hot. 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 
OHBESE. 

Du  Fromage. 


Cheese  is  one  of  the  most  nutritious  of 
all  food  substances,  being  not  only  sub- 
stantial, but  especially  rich  in  nitro- 
genous matter.  Among  scientists  it  ranks 
very  high  as  an  article  of  food.  The 
Creoles  hold  that  cheese  Is  a  good  aid  to 
digestion,  and  If  It  is  simply  the  Gruyere 
cheese  or  the  plain  "Fromage  a  I'Amer- 
Icaln,"  you  will  always  see  it  passed 
around  as  a  proper  finish  to  a  meal  Just 
before  the  coffee  Is  brought  In. 

So  much  for  the  cheese  in  Its  natural 
state.  In  cooking,  the  Creoles  use  some 
very  delightful  forms,  chief  among  which 
Is  that  old  French  preparation  known  as 


Cheese  Bamafcins. 

Ramequlns  de   Fromage. 

6  Tablespoonfuls  of  Grated  Cheese. 

1 1-2  Gills  of  Milk. 

The  Tolks   of  3  Begs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Butter. 

2  Ounces  of  Bread. 

1-2    Tablespoonful    of  Prepared    Mustard. 

The  Whites  of  3  Bggs. 

Cayenne  and  Salt  to  Toiste. 

Put   the   milk    on    to   boil,   and   add  the 

bread,   which  you  will  have  minced  fine. 

Stir     the     milk     and     brea^     until     very 

smooth,  and  then  add  the  butter,  stirring 


127 


well,  and  finally  the  gyrated  cheese.  Stir 
this  for  five  minutes,  letting  it  boil,  and 
then  take  off  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs.  Have  the  whites 
ready,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir 
them  in  very  gently.  Season  to  taste. 
Grease  a  baking  dish  with  butter  and 
pour  the  mixture  into  the  dish,  set  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  let  it  bake  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour.     Serve  hot. 

Cheese    Souffle. 

Souffle    de    Fromage. 

1-4  Pound   of  Grated  Cheese. 

1   Gill   of   Fresh    Cream    or   Milk. 

3  Creole   Eggs.     1    Teaspoonful    of   Flour. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1    Pinch    of    Grated    Nutmeg. 

1   Pinch   Cayenne.     Salt  to  Taste. 

Grate  the  cheese  very  fine  and  then 
add  to  it  the  boiling  milk;  add  grad- 
ually the  pepper,  Cayenne  and  salt.  Then 
add  the  butter  and  flour,  rubbed  well 
together.  When  the  cheese  is  well  dis- 
solved, take  the  mixture  off;  then  add 
nutmeg  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  three 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth;  stir  the  whole  well.  Place  all 
in  a  shallow  earthen  dl'sh,  add  a  little 
butter  that  has  been  well  melted  and  put 
in  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes  till  it 
begins  to  solidify  well;  then  take  out 
and  spread  on  top  the  white  of  one  egg, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Set  one  minute 
In  the  stove,  let  it  brown  slightly  and 
serve  immediately. 

Toasted'  Cheese. 

Fromage    sur    Canapes. 

1-2  Pound   of  Cheese.     6  Slices   of  Bread. 
Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Toast  the  bread  nicely  and  butter  it. 
Cut  the  cheese  into  very  thin  slices  and 
hold  to  the  fire,  letting  it  toast  nicely, 
first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 
Lay  this  upon  the  buttered  toast  and 
serve  hot.  This  is  a  very  nice  delicacy 
for  breakfast,  or  for  an  evening  in  win- 
ter when  seated  around  the  home  fire. 

Cheese    Straws. 

Failles    de    Fromage. 

1   Cup    of   Grated    Parmesan   or   Gruyere 

1     Cup    Flour.    1     Tablespoonful     Butter. 

Yolk  of  an  Egg. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Blend  the  flour  and  cheese  together 
and  add  at  the  same  time  the  salt  and 
Cayenne;  then  moisten  with  a  well- 
beaten  egg  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  and  work  all  gently  Into  a 
paste.  Roll  out  on  a  biscuit  board  into 
thin  strips  of  not  more  than  an  eighth 
of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and.  cut  into 
strips  of  four  Inches  in  length  and  one- 
eighth  of  an  inch  in  width.  Place  on 
buttered  sheets  of  paper  and  bake  in  a 
very  hot  oven  until  a  light  brown.  It  is 
very  pretty  to  make  little  rings  of  some 
of  the  strips  and  pass  the  others  through 
them  in  little  bundles  like  gathered 
bound  bits  of  straw.  This  Is  a  very 
dainty  dish. 

Welsh    Rarebit. 
Fromage    Fondu    a   la    Biere. 

2  Cups  of  Grated  Cheese  (Very  Eich). 

1-2  Cup  of  Milk.    The  Tolks  of  2  Eggs, 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Toast  the  bread  nicely  In  square  slices 
and  cut  off  the  crusts.  Butter  nicely 
while  very  hot  and  then  plunge  them  into 
a  bowl  of  boiling  milk.    Place  them  on  a 


heated  dish  and  stand  in  the  oven  to 
keep  hot  while  you  proceed  to  make  the 
"Rarebit."  Have  a  porcelain-lined  sauce- 
pan; and  set  a  half  cup  of  milk  in  it 
over  a  moderate  fire;  when  it  is  boiling 
hot  add  the  cheese  which  has  been  finely 
grated;  stir  unceasingly  till  the  cheese 
melts,  and  then  add  the  salt,  Cayenne 
and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  pour  over 
the  toasted  bread.  Serve  hot.  In  mak- 
ing this  "Delicatesse,"  the  cheese  must 
be  very  rich  or  it  will  be  tough  and 
stringy,  because  poor  cheese  will  not 
melt. 

Cheese  Biscuits.  • 

Biscuits   de   Fromage. 

1-4  Pound  of  Butter.    1-4  Pound  of  Flour. 

5  Ounces  of  Grated  Swiss  Cheese. 

1-2  Tablespoonful  of  Mustard. 

Tolks    of   5    Eggs.     A    Dash    of   Cayenne. 

Beat   the    butter   to    a    cream;    add    the 

yolks   of  the   eggs,  well   beaten,   and  mix 

well.     Then     add     gradually     the     grated 

cheese,    mustard    and    Cayenne.     Add    the 

flour    gradually,    beating    in    thoroughly, 

and  make  a  stiff  dough.     Roll  it  out  and 

cut  into  square  or  round  biscuits.     Bake 

in  a  rather  slow  oven  for  twenty  minutes 

and  serve. 

Cheese    Fondn. 

Fromage    Fondu. 
1    Cup    of    Grated    Parmesan    or    Gruyere 

0hG6S6 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sifted  Flour. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter.     3  Creole 
Eggs. 
1-2  Cup  of  Fresh  Milk  or  Cream. 
A   Pinch   of   Grated   Nutmeg. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Put    the    butter    into    a    saucepan    and 
melt,   and   add   the   flour,   blending  with- 
out   allowing    it    to    brown.     Add    imme- 
diately, the   boiling   milk,   and   let   It   boll 
tor  two  minutes.     Then  remove  from  the 
fire  and  stir  in   the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
well    beaten;    then    salt,    pepper,    nutmeg 
and    the     grated     cheese.     Mix     all    thor- 
oughly.    Have     ready     a     small     pudding 
dish,  or,  better  still,  several  small  souffle 
dishes.     Butter      these      well.     Have      the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
beat  them   into   the  mixture  and   fill   the 
dishes  about  two-thirds  full.     Then  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty-five 
minutes.     Serve  immediately,  or  He  mix- 
ture  which   has   risen    to   the   top   of   the 
dishes  will  fall. 

Cream       Cheese 

Fromage   a  la  Creme. 

Cream  Cheese  is  always  made  from 
clabbered  milk. 

The  clabber  is  placed  In  a  long  bag 
of  muslin  and  put  to  drain,  the  bag  be- 
ing tied  tightly  and  hung  out  over  night 
In  a  cool  place.  When  ready  for  use, 
the  bag  is  opened  and  the  cheese  is  taken 
out  and  beaten  till  light.  It  is  then 
placed  in  these  perforated  molds,  and 
when  the  time  comes  for  serving  it  is 
taken  out,  placed  in  a  dish,  and  sweet 
cream  is  poured  over  It.  It  is  eaten  with 
sugar  or  salt,  more   generally  sugar. 

Frozen  cream  cheese  is  a  very  delicious 
summer  dish  with  the  Creoles.  Some 
persons,  after  skimming  the  cream  from 
the  sour  milk,  stand  the  pan  on  the  back 
of  the  stove,  and  scald  the  clabber  with 
about  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  be- 
fore putting  in  the  bag  to  drain.  Again, 
some  use  only  the  perforated  tins, 
instead  of  the  muslin  bag,  but  the  best 
results  are  obtained  by  the  former  an- 
cient Creole  method,  ^ream  cheese  cor- 
responds to  the  German  "Schmler  Kase." 


128 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 
CANAPES. 

Canapes. 


No  book  on  Creole  cookery  would  be 
complete  without  reference  to  the  de- 
lightful "Canapes"  that  are  so  extensive- 
ly used  at  breakfasts,  luncheons,  dinners 
or  suppers,  and  whose  methods  of  prep- 
aration, distinctively  Creole,  have  added 
to  the  reputation  of  the  Creole  cuisine. 
"Canape"  is  a  French  term,  literally 
meaning  a  "couch"  or  "bed."  In  the  cu- 
•  Unary  sense  it  is  used  as  a  bed  on  which 
to  rest  Savory  foods.  Usually  the  Canape 
Is  the  form  of  sliced  bread,  or  toast,  or 
crackers,  covered  with  finely  minced 
meats,  pastes,  etc.,  and  handsomely  dec- 
orated. It  is  a  term  that  is  also  applied 
to  the  ordinary  "Sandwich." 

AnchoTy  Canapes. 

Canapes    d'Anchois. 

6  Slices  of  Dry  Toast. 

1    Ounce    of   Anchovy    Butter. 

2    Dozen    Anchovies. 

First  prepare  the  Anchovy  Butter  by 
adding  to  one  ounce  of  good  regular  but- 
ter one  teaspoonful  of  Anchovy  Bssence. 
Mix  well  and  set  on  ice  till  ready  to  use. 

Prepare  six  slices  of  bread,  slicing  them 
about  one-half  an  inch  thick  and  toast- 
ing to  a  golden  brown.  Trim  the  edges 
nicely  and  spread  over  each  a  little  An- 
chovy Butter,  and  then  cover  each  with 
four  Anchovies  cut  in  halves,  or  pounded 
to  a  paste,  according  to  taste.  Place  the 
toasts  on  a  tin  baking  sheet  in  an  oven 
for  one  minute,  and  then  arrange  neatly 
on  a  folded  napkin  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

Anchovy      Canapes      With      Hard-Bolled 

BgBS. 

Canapes    d'Anchois    aux    Oeufs    Durs. 

6   Slices   of  French   Toast. 

1  Dozen  Anchovies.    2  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

1    Ounce   of   Anchovy   Butter. 

Prepare  six  slices  of  French  toast  (see 
recipe),  spread  over  each  a  little  An- 
chovy Butter,  and  then  spread  over  this 
buttered  toast  the  Anchovies  and  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  which  have  been  finely 
minced  and  mixed  together.  Place  on  a 
folded  napkin  in  a  dish  and  serve. 

Anchovy    Canapes,    Creole    Style. 

Canapes    d'Anchois    a    la    Creole. 

6   Slices   of  French  Toast. 

1    Dozen    Anchovies.    1    Ounce    of   Grated 

Ham. 

6  Gherkins.    1-2  a  Truffle. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Salad   Oil. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Caper  Vinegar. 

1    Ounce    of   Aspic    Jelly. 

Prepare  the  French  toasts  (see  recipe) ; 
trim  the  edges  neatly.  Chop  the  An- 
chovies very  fine  and  mix  with  the  ounce 
of  grated  boiled  ham,  and  the  truffle 
and  gherkins,  all  minced  very  fine; 
moisten  this  with  the  salad  oil  and  vin- 
egar, which  have  been  well  mixed. 
Spread  over  the  toast  and  sarnish  nicely 
with  the  aspic  jelly,  ard  place  on  a  fold- 
ed napkin  and  serve.  The  Anchovy  prep- 
aration may  also  be  used  to  fill  very 
small  patty  cases;  in  this  case,  serve 
with  a  garnish  of  delicate  pieces  of  toast 
and   Aspic   Jelly. 


Anchovy   Canapes   With    Gruyere   Cheese. 

Canapes      d'Anchois      au      Fromage      de 
Gruyere. 

6  Slices  of  French  Toast. 

2  Ounces  of  Gruyere  Cheese. 

16    Anchovies. 

6  Minced  Gherkins.     1  Ounce  of  Anchovy 

Butter. 

Prepare  the  French  toast  (see  recipe); 
pound  the  Anchovies  to  a  paste  with  the 
Gruyere  cheese;  line  very  shallow  gem 
pans  with  a  pie  paste.  (See  recipe.) 
When  baked,  set  to  cool,  and  then  fill  in 
with  the  Anchovy  preparation.  Then  in- 
vert this  on  a  circle  of  nicely  buttered 
Anchovy  toast;  garnish  with  the  minced 
gherkins  and   serve. 

Cracker    AnchoTy    Canapes. 

Canapes    d'Anchois    aux    Biscuit. 

1     Dozen     Soda    Crackers    or    Butter 

Crackers. 

2    Dozen    Anchovies. 

1  Ounce   of  Anchovy  Butter. 

Cut  the  Anchovies  into  halves.  Butter 
one  side  of  six  crackers  with  the  An- 
chovy butter;  lay  on  this  four  Anchovies 
sliced  in  half;  cover  each  with  a  cracker; 
place  on  a  folded  napkin  on  a  dish  and 
serve.  A  very  pretty  conceit  at  lunch- 
eons is  to  tie  the  crackers  across  and 
around  with  narrow  green  ribbon,  mak- 
ing  a   delicate   knot  in  the  center. 

Swiss   Canapes. 

Canapes   a   la   Suisse. 
1    Ounce    of   Anchovy   Butter. 
3    Hard-Boiled    Eggs.     6    Stuffed    Olives. 
3  Minced  Green  Gherkins. 
6    Slices    of    Toast. 
Prepare   the   French   toast,   and  cut  six 
delicate   pieces    into    the   shape    of   a   tri- 
angle.    Spread    these    with   Anchovy  but- 
ter;    decorate    along    one    side    with    the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  finely  minced:   along 
the     second    triangular     edge    with    the 
minced    yolks    of    the    eggs    and    on    the 
third    with    the    minced    green    gherkins. 
Place  a   stuffed   olive    (see  recipe)   in  the 
center,    and    arrange    nicely    on    a    folded 
napkin  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

Caviar    Canapes. 

Canapes  de  Caviar. 

6    Slices    of   French    Toast. 

1-2    of    a    Box    of    Ru.ssian    Caviar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  (jream. 
Prepare   the   toast    and    cut   in    delicate 

circles.  In  the  meantime  put  half  the 
contents  of  a  small  box  of  Russian 
Caviars  into  a  sautolre  or  saucepan;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  heat 
one  and  a  half  minuter  on  the  stove. 
Be  careful  to  stir  constantly.  Pour  this 
over  the  toast;  pi. ice  on  a  dish  on  a  fold- 
ed napkin  and  ser\'e.  Again,  the  circles 
of  toast  may  be  used  as  a  foundation, 
the  edges  being  spread  with  Anchovy 
butter,  with  an  onion  ring  at  its  base. 
Fill  this  decorated  ring  with  the  Caviars, 
place  on  a  folded  napkin  on  a  dish  and 
serve. 

Canapes    Hunters*    Style 

Canapes   a.  la   Chasseur. 

6  Slices   of  Toast. 

1    Cup    of    Forcemeat    of    Gam«     (Wliite 

Meat!. 

1-2    Cup    of    Forcemeat    of    Game    (Dark 

Meat). 


129 


Prepare  triangular-shaped  pieces  ot 
toast,  butter  nicely  and  spread  over  with 
a  game  forcemeat  (Woodcock,  Snipe, 
Reed  Birds,  etc.).  Decorate  the  edges 
with  a  forcemeat  of  game  of  different 
color,  for  effect,  and  serve.  The  wild 
ducli,  the  meat  of  -which  is  darlc,  may- 
be utilized  in  this  garnish.  Left-over 
game  also  may  be  thus  nicely  utilized  at 
luncheon    or   supper. 

Grab    Canapes. 

Canapes  de   Crabes  au  Canapes  Lorenzo. 

6   Slices  of  Toast. 
8  Hard-SheHed  Crabs.    1  Ounce  of  Butter. 

1  .Small   Onion. 
2    Tablespoonfuls     of     Butter.     2     Table- 
spoonfuls  of  Flour. 
1  Gill  of  Broth  or  Water. 
2  Ounces  of  Grated  Parmesan  Cheese. 
2  Ounces  of  Grated  Swiss  Cheese. 

For  tliis  recipe  first  prepare  the  "Dev- 
iled Crabs"  as  follows:  Boil  the  crabs. 
(See  recipe  Boiled  Crabs.)  Then  picls 
out  all  the  meat  from  the  claws  and 
bodies,  and  season  nicely  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  one  ounce  of  butter  into 
the  saucepan,  and  add  a  finely  minced 
onion;  let  this  cook  on  a  slovsr  fire  for 
two  minutes,  but  by  no  means  allow 
either  butter  or  onion  to  brown.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  constant- 
ly for  a  minute  and  a  half,  and  then  add 
a  gill  of  broth  or  water,  if  the  broth  is 
not  convenient.  Stir  well  and  let  this 
mixture  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Now  add  the  crab  meat  and 
let  it  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
stirring  occasionally  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Turn  t"he  mixture  into  a  dish  and 
let  it  cool  for  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into 
a  saucepan,  and  add  immediately  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  flour  and  blend  well;  let 
this  cook  for  three  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time,  and  then  add  two  ounces  of 
grated  Parmesan  and  two  ounces  of 
grated  Swiss  cheese.  Stir  all  well  to- 
gether, blending  thoroughly,  and  then 
turn  into  a  vessel  to  cool.  Cut  six  slices 
of  bread  the  full  length  and  width  of  the 
loaf,  using  preferably  the  "Pan  Bread," 
or  delicate  French  loaf.  Let  the  thick- 
ness of  each  slice  be  about  a  quarter  of 
an  inch;  neatly  trim  off  the  crust,  and 
fry  the  bread  in  a  saucepan  with  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter  till  they  have 
reached  a  golden  brown.  Then  let  them 
cool,  draining  off  all  butter.  Divide 
the  crab  forcemeat  and  the  cheese  sep- 
arately into  six  equal  parts;  place  a 
layer  of  the  crab  forcemeat  one-quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  on  each  slice  of  toast. 
Take  the  six  portions  of  cheese  and  roll 
each  into  a  ball-shaped  form  about  two 
inches  ,in  diameter,  and  arrange  them  on 
each  portion  of  toast  nicely  and  equally; 
place  in  a  dish  and  brown  in  the  oven 
for  five  minutes,  and  send  the  Canapes 
to  the  table  hot  in  the  same  dish  In  which 
they    were    baked. 

Chicken    Canapes. 
Canapes  de  Volaille. 

6  Slices  of  Toast. 

1  Cup   of   Chicken    Forcemeat.     Ounce   of 

Butter. 

1   Gill    of   Cream. 

The    Whites    of   2    Hard-Boiled    Eggs. 

2  Ounces  of  Parmesan  Cheese. 
Prepare  a  Chicken  Forcemeat  (see  re- 
cipe), and  then  prepare  six  slices  of  toast, 
cut  square  or  in  circles.  Add  an  ounce 
of  butter  and  one  gill  of  cream  to  the 
chicken  forcemeat;  work  well  together, 
and   then    set   to    cool.     Spread    the    toast 


liglitly  with  butter,  and  spread  over  each 
slice  a  portion  of  the  chicken  forcemeat 
to  the  thiclcness  of  one-quarter  of  an 
inch;  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  five 
minutes,  and  then  decorate  in  the  center 
with  delicately  cut  pieces  of  the  white 
of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  serve. 

Canapes    of    Chichen    Ijivers. 

Canapes   de  Foies  de  Volaille. 

1    Dozen    Chicken    Livers.     1    Onion. 

6   Slices   of  Toast. 

Dash    of   Anchovy    Essence.     1    Ounce    of 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Red  Pepper  to  'Taste 

Pimentos   and    Red    Chili   to    Garnish. 

Saute  the  Chicken  Livers  (see  recipe) 
with  a  finely  minced  onion  till  tender; 
then  pound  them  to  a  paste,  adding  first 
a  dash  of  Anchovy  Essence,  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  salt  and  red  pepper 
to  taste.  Cut  the  bread  the  full  width  of 
the  loaf  and  trim  the  edges  nicely;  then 
fry  in  butter  to  a  golden  brown;  take 
out  and  drain,  and  place  in  a  silver  dish^ 
or  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be 
served,  and  pile  up  the  chicken  liver 
preparation  in  pyramidal  shape  on  top 
of  the  toast;  smooth  nicely  all  around 
with  a  Icnife  and  set  in  the  oven  for  two 
or  three  minutes;  then  decorate  the 
edges  of  the  bread  with  slices  of  Pimen- 
tos and  rings  of  Red  Chilis  and  serve 
hot. 

Creole    Canapes, 

Canapes   a   la   Creole. 

Cup    of    Grated    or    Minced    Boiled    Ham. 

1  Onion.    1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1   Peeled    Tomato.    1    Minced    Green  - 

Pepper. 

6  Slices  of  Buttered  Toast. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Butter.    2   Ounces   of 

Parmesan  Cheese. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Grate  and  mince  only  the  lean  portion 
of  ham  till  you  have  a  cupful.  Put  this 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  add  the  finely  minced  onion 
and  garlic.  Let  this  cook  for  three  min- 
utes, and  then  add  the  finely-cut  tomato 
and  minced  green  pepper.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  dash 
of  Cayenne,  and  let  the  preparation  stew 
down  dry:  then  spread  on  strips  of  but- 
tered toaM  and  dredge  with  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese.  Set  In  the  oven  In  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served  and  bake 
for  five  minutes  and  send  to  the  table 
hot. 

Cheese    Canapes. 
Canapes   de   Fromage. 

6   Slices   of  Swiss  Cheese. 

6  Slices  of  Toast. 
1  Gill  of  Sauce  Piquante. 
Take  six  slices  of  bread  cut  the  whole 
width  of  the  loaf,  one-half  inch  in  thick- 
ness, and  hollow  out  one-half  of  the  in- 
ner portion.  Toast  this  nicely  and  spray 
the  inner  part  with  Piquante  Sauce.  (See 
recipe.)  Have  ready  six  slices  of  toasted 
or  baked  Swiss  cheese:  fit  a  slice  into 
each  cavity  in  the  sliced  toast;  set  in  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve  very 
hot. 

Codfish   Canapes. 

Canapes    de   Cabillaud    ou    de    Morue. 

1  Cup  of  Boiled  Salt  Codfish. 

1  Green  Pepper.    3  Young  Onions. 

1    Teaspoonful    of   Tarragon   Vinegar. 

Capers  to  Garnish. 


130 


Boil  the  Codfish  (see  recipe),  or  utilize 
left-over  fish;  mince  finely  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  the  minced  green  pep- 
pers and  young  onions,  and  season  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon  vinegar. 
Spread  on  triangular-shaped  pieces  of 
toast  placed  on  a  dish  on  a  folded  nap- 
kin. Decorate  nicely  with  capers  and 
serve. 

Ham  Canapes. 

Canapes    de   Jambon. 

6  Slices  of  Lean  Ham. 

6  Slices   of   Toast. 

1  Tablespoonful    of    French    Mustard. 

1  Gill  of  Cold  White  Sauce. 
1  Boiled  Onion.    1  Cooked  Garlic. 

2  Ounces  of  Grated  Parmesan  Ch'eese. 
Prepare    the    toast    nicely,    cutting    the 

slices  the  full  width  of  the  bread,  paring 
the  edges  nicely  and  toasting  and  but- 
tering well.  Lay  on  each  piece  of  toast 
a  thin  slice  of  very  lean  ham,  which  has 
been  lightly  spread  with  French  mus- 
tard. S^pread  lightly  over  this  a  cold 
White  Sauce  (see  recipe  White  Sauce, 
Sauce  Blanche),  to  which  has  been  added 
while  cooking  a  finely-minced  onion  and 
clove  of  garlic,  and  a  dash  of  Parmesan 
cheese.  Dredge  the  top  of  the  Canape 
with  Parmesan  cheese,  then  sprinkle 
lightly  with  finely-grated  bread  crumbs. 
Set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  and 
bake  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Fish    Canapes. 

Canapes    de    Poisson. 

1  Cup  of  Minced  Left-Over  Fish. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    French    Mustard 

Dressing. 

1   Gill   of  Sauce  Piquante. 

2  Ounces  of  Parmesan  Choese. 

6  Slices   of  Toast. 

Utilize  in  this  form  of  Canape  any 
kind  of  white-fleshed  Fish,  Red  Fish, 
Red  Snapper,  Sheepshead  or  Trout,  etc. 
Prepare  a  forcemeat  (see  recipe)  and 
season  with  fje  French  Mustard  and 
the  Piquant  Sauce.  Spread  a  layer  one- 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick  over  delicate 
strips  of  toast,  dredge  with  grated  Par- 
mesan Cheese,  set  in  the  oven,  and  bake 
for  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

Canapes    of   Potted    Ham 

Canapes  de  Jambon  en  Conserve. 
1  Box  of  Potted  Ham. 

2  Ounces   of  Grated  Boiled  Ham. 
Thin    Slices   of   Green   Gherkins. 

6  Slices  of  Toast. 
Prepare  delicate  strips  of  Toast,  spread 
with  Potted  Ham  to  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  then  sprinkle  lightly 
with  grated  ham  and  decorate  the  edges, 
and  cover,  if  desired,  with  thinly-sliced 
Green  Gherkins.  The  grated  Boiled  Ham 
may    he   omitted. 

Indian   Canapes. 

Canapes  a  I'lndienne. 

1  Box    of    Potted    Ham.     1    Ounce    of 

Chutney. 
6   Slices   of  Toast. 

2  Ounces  of  Grated  Parmesan  Cheese. 
Cut    six    slices    of    brond    into    delicate 

circles,  and  fry  in  butter.  Spread  first 
with  Potted  Ham  and  then  with  Chutney. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  Cheese. 
Set  in  the  oven  to  brown  for  five  min- 
utes, and   serve  hot. 

Oyster  Canapes, 

Canapes  d'Huitres. 

3  Dozen  Oysters.     6  Slices  of  Toast. 

2    Tablespoontuls    of    Hollandaise    Sauce. 
Parsley  Sprigs. 


Blanch  the  oysters  (see  recipe)  and 
then  mince  very  fine.  Mix  with  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  Hollandaise  Sauce,  and 
then  spread  over  thin  strips  of  buttered 
toast.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  Parsley, 
which  has  been  grated  so  fine  as  to  be 
almost  a  dust.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  on 
top  of  each  Canape,  set  in  the  oven  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Olive    Canapes. 

Canapes   d'OIives. 

6    Stuffed    Olives.     6    Slices    of    Buttered 

Toast. 

6  Anchovies. 

Capers  and  Minced  Olive  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  the  toast  and  cut  into  delicate 
circles.  Place  on  each  circle"  a  coiled 
Anchovy,  and  set  a  Stuffed  Olive  in  the 
center  of  the  coil.  Decorate  lightly  with 
Olives  and  Capers  minced  very  fine,  and 
serve.  Again,  this  Canape  may  be  pre- 
pared by  frying  the  circles  of  toast  In 
butter,  and  spreading  them  with  An- 
chovies pounded  to  a  paste,  and  decorat- 
ing on  top  with  minced  Capers  or  Olives. 

Canapes   of  Potted   Tongue 

Canapes    do    Langue    de    Boeuf    en    Con- 
serve: 

1   Box   of  Potted  Tongue. 

Strips    of   Cooked    Pork    Tongue. 

6  Slices   of  Toast. 

Prepare  the  toast  and  cut  into  delicate 
circles.  Spread  with  a  layer  of  Potted 
Tongue  one-quarter  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness, and  decorate  with  strips  of  cooked 
Red  Tongue  in  lattice  forms — that  Is, 
with  strips  laid  one  over  the  other,  like 
a   lattice  work. 

Louisiana    Canapes. 

Canapes   a.   la   Louisiane. 

Two    Breasts    of    Chicken.     1-4   of   a  Red 

Tongue. 
2    Ounces    of    Grated    Lean    Boiled   Ham. 

A  Dash  of  Curry  Powder. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Thick  Veloute  Sauce. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Grated  Parmesan 

Cheese. 

Mince  very  fine  the  cooked  breasts  of 
the  chicken,  and  cut  the  ham  and  tongue 
into  small  dice  shapes;  mix  well  with  the 
chicken,  and  season  with  salt  and  a  dash 
of  Cayenne.  Add  a  dash  of  Curry  Pow- 
der, and  then  work  the  entire  forcemeat 
well  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick 
Veloute  Sauce.  (See  recipe.)  Spread  the 
mixture  in  layers  one-quarter  of  an  Inch 
thick  on  each  slice  of  delicate  circles  of 
toast,  dredge  lightly  with  Parmesan 
Cheese,  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes 
and  bake.     Pend  to  the  table  hot. 

Sardine    Canapes. 

Canapes   de   Sardines. 

6   Triangular  Slices   of  Toast. 

1   Box   of  Sardines.     3  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon.     6  Anchovies. 

A    Dash    of    Red    Pepper. 

Pound  the  sardines  and  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs  to  a  paste,  season  with  a 
dash  of  Red  Pepper  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  and  spread  the  buttered  toast  with 
the  mixture.  Decorate  in  the  center  with 
a  coiled  Anchovy.  Or,  simply  pound  the 
sardines  to  a  paste,  season  with  a  dash 
of  red  pepper  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  spread  on  the  slices  of  buttered 
toast. 


131 


Spanish    Canapes. 

Canapes  a  I'Espagnole. 
6  Circular  Pieces  of  Buttered  Toast. 

1  Cup    of    Finely    MBiced    White    Flesh 

Fish. 
3    Sweet   Piclcles. 

1  Tablespoonful   of   Madras  Chutney. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Hollandaise    Sauce. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Parmesan  Cheese. 

Prepare  circular  pieOes  of  .buttered 
toast,  make  a  mixture  of  a  cup  of  any 
white-flesh  fish,  the  Madras  Chutney 
moistened  with  the  Hollandaise  Sauce 
and  minced  pickles,  all  pounded  together. 


Spread  this  over  the  toast  and  dredge 
with  grated  Parmesan  Cheese.  Set  in 
the   oven  and  bake   for  five  minutes. 

CANNELiONS. 

Cannelon  is  a  term  applied  to  peculiar 
hollow  lengths  of  puff  paste  or  noodle 
paste,  made  by  taking  a  piece  of  piping 
or  tubing  and  cutting  the  paste  into 
strips  and  twining  around  the  tubing 
or  piping.  Bake  or  fry  this  preparation, 
remove  the  tubing  and  fill  in  the  canne- 
lons  with  a  forcemeat  of  sausage,  chick- 
en croquettes  mixture,  preserves,  jellies 
or  creams. 


CHAPTER  XXIX 
VEGETABIiES 

Des  Le  grumes 


Louisiana  is  peculiarly  favored  in  re- 
spect to  the  variety  of  vegetables  that 
can  be  grown  on  her  soil.  Almost  all  the 
sturdier  varieties  of  vegetables  and  all 
the  more  delicate  -land  recherche  are 
grown  here  in  abundance.  The  soil  is  so 
rich  and  fruitful  that  it  has  been  said 
that  if  you  simply  scatter  the  seed  over 
the  ground,  without  any  effort  at  culti- 
vation, it  would  still  take  root  and  a 
good  crop  would  follow.  Our  climate 
also  admits  of  two  seasons  of  planting, 
-SO  that  we  have  both  an  early  spring  and 
autumn  crop;  the  one  extends  far  into 
the  summer  and  verging  upon  the 
autumn,  and  the  other  till  late  in  the 
winter  and  verging  upon  the  early 
spring.  Consequently,  vegetables  are  al- 
ways to  be  found  in  abundance  in  our 
markets. 

ABTICHOKBS. 

Des    Artichauts. 

Artichokes  are  of  two  kinds:  The 
French  or  Green  Globe  Artichokes,  which 
have  large  scaly  heads,  like  the  cones  of 
a  pine,  and  the  Jerusalem  Artichokes. 
The  latter  are  little  esteemed  by  the  fas- 
tidious, the  preference  being  always 
given  to  the  former,  which  is  a  more 
delicate  and  tender  variety,  and  a  popu- 
lar favorite.  In  Louisiana  the  Jerusalem 
Artichoke  is  cultivated  principally  for 
its  tubers,  which  are  very  valuable  for 
stock  and  hog  feeding,  owing  to  their 
fattening  properties.  But,  if  boiled  or 
made  into  a  puree,  these  artichokes  will 
be  found  not  only  a  pleasant,  but  most 
nutritious  food.  French  Artichokes  may 
be  boiled  or  stuffed  or  fried. 

To  tell  if  a  French  Artichoke  is  ten- 
der, lift  up  one  of  the  scales  that  lie 
near  the  body  of  the  vegetable.  If  it 
breaks  without  effort,  the  vegetable  is 
young;  otherwise,  the  artichoke  will  be 
tough  and  disagreeable  to  eat. 

French     Artichokes     Boiled. 
Artichauts    Francais    Bouillis. 

6     Tender     Fresh     Artichokes.    1     Table- 
spoonful  of  Vinegar. 
1  Teaspoonful   of  Salt.     Sauce,  according 
to   Taste. 

Strip  off  the  coa^e  outer  leaves,  or, 
better  still,  cut  the  stalks  close  with  a 
pair  of  scissors,  and  trim  the  sharp 
points  from  the  leaves,  removing  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  each.  Cut  the 
stalks  about  an  inch  from  the  bottom. 
Throw  in  cold  water  and  wash  well, 
adding  a  little  vinegar  to  draw  out  any 
lurking  insects.  Have  on  the  stove  a  pot 
of  boiling  water,  and  add  a  teaspoonful 
of    salt.     Throw    in    the    artichokes    and 


boil  gently  until  it  is  possible  to  draw 
out  a  leaf  easily,  or  until  the  outer  leaves 
are  tender.  Take  from  the  fire  and  drain 
upon  a  dish,  placing  them  upside  down, 
so  that  the  water  may  all  run  off.  Stand 
on  their  stalks  in  another  dish  when 
thoroughly  drained,  and  serve  hot  with  a 
Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  Sauce  a  la  Maitre 
d'Hotel  or  a  Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise. 

The  time  for  boiling  an  artichoke  de- 
pends entierly  on  the  age  and  size  of 
the  vegetable,  and  requires  all  the  way 
from  twenty-five  minutes  to  an  hour. 

Jerusalem   Artichokes  Boiled. 

Topinambours    Bouillis. 

6  Jerusalem  Artichokes.  Sauce  a  la 
Maitre  d'Hotel  or  a  la  Creme. 
Wash  the  artichokes  in  cold  water, 
and  scrape  them.  Then  throw  them  into 
cold  water,  and  let  them  soak  for  an 
hour  or  so.  Take  out  and  drain.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan;  cover  With  boiling 
water,  and  let  them  boil  slowly  until 
tender;  watch  carefully,  as  they  will 
easily  harden  again.  Serve  with  a  Sauce 
a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel  or  a  Cream  Sauce. 
(See    recipes.) 

Puree    of    Jerusalem    Artichokes. 

Puree   de   Topinambours   a   la   Creme. 

6  Artichokes.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  and  skin  the  artichokes,  and  boll 
until  tender  in  a  pint  of  water.  Press 
them  through  a  colander,  and  return  to 
the  fire  in  a  saucepan  in  which  you  have 
placed  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Stir  well,  and  let  them  simmer 
for  five  minutes  longer,  and  serve  with 
a    Cream   Sauce.     (See   recipe.) 

Fried    Artichokes. 

Artichauts  Frits. 
6  Artichokes.  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
Pluck  off  the  coarse  scales  of  the  arti- 
choke, and  then  throw  the  vegetable  into 
cold  water.  Let  it  stand  for  an  hour. 
Then'  drain.  Cut  the  meat  into  delicate 
slices,  and  fry  in  butter,  just  as  you 
would  DOtato  chips.  Serve  with  Filet  of 
Beef,  Veal  Saute,  Smothered  Chicken, 
etc. 

Artichokes    Santes. 
Artichauts    Sautes. 
6  Fine  Tender  Artichokes.    2  Tablespoon- 
fuls  of   Butter. 
1   Tablespoonful   of  Vinegar.    Any  Sauoo 
Desired. 


132 


Take  six  fine  artichokes  and  cut  into 
quarters.  Remove  the  choke  entierly. 
Trim  the  leaves  neatly  and  parboil  in 
hot  water  for  five  minutes,  being  careful 
to  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  to  the  water.  After 
five  minutes  remove  the  artichokes  and 
drain  thoroughly.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
or  sautire,  with  two  good  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter.  Cover  the  pan  tight  and 
set  to  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twen- 
ty-five minutes.  Then  take  the  artichokes 
from  the  pan  and  place  in  a  deep  serving 
dish  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  a  la  Maitre 
d'Hotel,  a  Drawn  Butter  S'auce,  a  Hol- 
landaise  Sauce,  or  any  sauce  desired. 

Artichokes  a  la  Vinaigrette. 

Artichauts  a  la  Vinaigrette. 

fi    Fine,   Tender  Young  Artichokes.     3 

Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of   Vinegar.    1    Shallot. 

The   Yolk   of   a   Hard-Boiled   'Egg. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Prepare  and  boil  the  artichokes  as  In 
recipe  for  French  Artichokes  Boiled  (see 
recipe).  Serve  with  the  following  sauce: 
Take  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  di- 
lute it  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegan 
blend  well,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper;  chop  the  shallot  very,  very  fine, 
add  to  the  mixture,  and  then  add  grad- 
ually three  tablespoonfuls  of  Olive  Oil. 
Mix  all  together  well.  Place  the  arti- 
chokes on  a  folded  napkin  on  a  dish,  and 
send  to  the  table  with  the  sauce  in  a 
separate   dish. 

Staffed    Artichokes 

Artichauts    Farcis    a.    la    Barigoule. 

3    Quarts    of    Boiled    Artichokes. 
1   Onion,  Minced.    2  Cloves  of  Garlic. 

1-2  Square   Inch   of  Ham. 

1      Tablespoonful      Butter.     1-4      Can      of 

Mushrooms. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Clean  and  boil  the  artichokes  accord- 
ing to  recipe.  (Boiled  Artichokes.)  Wben 
the  leaves  begin  to  be  tender  and  it  Is 
possible  to  pull  out  a  leaf  without  diffi- 
culty, take  the  artichokes  off  the  fire. 
Pull  off  a  few  of  the  coarse  leaves,  and 
then  scoop  out  the  artichoke,  without 
touching  the  "fond,"  or  bottom  meat, 
and  without  breaking  Uie  outer  scales 
or  leaves  from  the  sides  and  around. 
The  artichoke  must  be  apparently  whole 
and  undisturbed.  Then  chop  an  onion, 
or,  rather,  mince  it  very  fine,  and  mince 
two  cloves  of  garlic  and  half  a  square 
inch  of  ham  very,  very  fine.  Take  a 
quarter  of  a  can  of  mushrooms  and 
mince  them  fine.  Mix  all  this  together 
as  a  stuffing,  and  season  well  with  salt, 
pepper  and  Cayenne.  Put  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  fry  the 
dreKsing  in  it  for  about  five  of  ten  'min- 
utes. Take  off  the  fire,  and  stuff  each 
artichoke  from  the  center,  which  you 
will  have  scooped,  beginning  just  above 
the  heart  or  "fond"  of  the  artichoke. 
Pour  over  each  a  spoonful  of  broth  or 
consomme,  or  water;  sprinkle  lightly 
with  bread  crumbs;  put  a  dot  of  butter 
on  e^ch.  and  set  in  the  oven  and  bake 
for  five  minutes,  till  the  crumbs  are 
nicelv  browned.  Serve  immediately, 
using,  if  you  wish,  a  Drawn  Butter 
Sauce  but  it  is  unnecessarv.  (See  Beurre 
a   la   Maitre  d'Hotel.) 

ASPARAGUS. 

Des    Asperges. 

Asparagus  is  a  vegetable  of  very  deli- 
cate flavor,  and  is  much  sought  after 
and    highly    esteemed    by    epicures.     It    is 


a     dainty    accompaniment    to    the    most 

elegant    feast. 

Boiled   Asparagus. 

Asperges    en   Branches. 

1    Can    of    Asparagus    or    2    Bunches    of 

Fresh   Asparagus, 

1-2    Pint    of    Hollandaise    or    1    Gill    of 

Drawn   Butter  Sauce. 

When  it  is  possible  to  get  fresh  as- 
paragus, carefully  wash  it  in  cold  water, 
and  cut  off  the  tough  white  ends.  Scrape 
the  white  part  well,  and  throw  it  into 
cold  water,  to  soak  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  tie  it  in  small  bundles,  and  put  it 
in  a  saucepan  lined  with  porcelain.  Pour 
over  boiling  water,  and  let  it  cook  for 
twenty  minutes.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Take 
the  asparagus  up  nicely.  Drain  off  all 
water.  Lay  on  a  folded  napkin,  and 
serve  with  a  Drawn  Butter  Sauce.  (See 
recipe.)  Asparagus  is  generally  bought 
in  New  Orleans  in  cans,  being  very  nice- 
ly prepared.  It  requires  simply  to  be 
set  on  the  stove  and  allowed  to  heat, 
as  it  is  already  cooked.  Take  out  of  the 
can  by  turning  it  downward  in  a  dish, 
letting  the  asparagus  slide  gently  out. 
Drain  off  all  water,  and  place  on  a  fold- 
ed napkin,  and  serve  with  a  Drawn  But- 
ter Sauce.     (See   recipe.) 

Asparagus   Vinaigrette  Sauce. 
Pointe  d'Asperges  a  la  Sauce  Vinaigrette. 
1    Can    of   Aspargus.    1-2   Pint   of  Vinai- 
grette   Sauce. 

Prepare  the  asparagus  as  In  the  above 
recipe.  Drain  and  set  to  cooL  Serve 
with  a  half,  pint  of  Vinaigrette  Sauce. 
(S'ee  recipe.) 

Asparagus    Tips   Wltli   Green   Peas. 

Pointes    d'Asperges   aux   Petit  Pols. 

1    Can    of    Asparagus    or    2    Bunches    of 

Fresh  Asparagus. 
1  Can  of  Green  Peas  or  1  Pint  of  Fresh 

Green    Peas. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.    6  Tablespoon- 
fuls of  Cream   Sauce. 
6  or  8  Buttered  Croutons. 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  the  asparagus 
into  pieces  of  about  one  inch  in  length. 
Take  the  asparagus  water,  in  which  they 
were  put  up,  and  set  on  the  stove  to  heat, 
and  add  the  canned  green  peas  to  the 
fresh  peas  that  have  already  been  boiled. 
Throw  in  the  asparagus  tips,  and  add 
water  sufficient  to  cover.  Boil  rapidly 
for  ten  minutes;  then  drain  very  thor- 
oughly and  return  to  the  fire,  having 
added  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  Cream 
Sauce.  (S'ee  recipe.)  Stir  carefully,  so 
that  you  may  not  break  the  tips,  and 
serve  on  neat  Croutons  of  buttered  toast, 
or  place  in  a  dish  and  bring  piping  hot 
to  the  table  as  an  entre.  The  coarse  ends 
of  the  asparagus  must  not  be  thrown 
away,  but  may  be  utilized  in  a  very  nice 
Cream   of  Asparagus  Soup.     (See  recipe.) 

BKANS. 

Des  Haricots. 
Beans,  whether  white  or  red,  are 
among  the  most  nutritious  of  food  sub- 
stances. In  all  the  ancient  homes  of 
New  Orleans,  and  in  the  colleges  and 
convents,  where  large  numbers  of  chil- 
dren are  sent  to  be  reared  to  be  strong 
and  useful  men  and  women,  several  times 
a  week  there  appear  on  the  table  either 
the  nicely  cooked  dish  of  Red  Beans, 
which  are  eaten  with  rice,  or  the  equally 


133 


wholesome  White  Beans  a  la  Creme,  or 
Red  or  White  Beans -boiled  with  a  piece 
of  salt  pork  or  ham.  String  Beans  a  la 
Sauce  de  Maitre  d'Hotel,  or  boiled  with 
a  piece  of  salt  pork  or  ham,  are  also 
classed  among  the  especially  nutritious 
beans.  The  Creoles  hold  that  the  boys 
and  girls  who  are  raised  on  beans  and 
rice  and  beef  will  be  among  the  strongest 
and  sturdiest  of  people. 

String    Beans    With    Butter    Sauce. 

Haricots    Verts    a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

2  Quarts   of  Fresh,  Tender  String  Beans. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter.     Salt  and 

Pepper  to  Taste. 

Always  select  tender  beans.  Break  the 
blossom  end,  and  pull  it  backward,  re- 
moving the  string.  Then  be  careful  to 
pare  the  thin  strip  from  the  other  end 
of  the  bean  pod.  It  is  only  in  this  way 
that  you  will  be  sure  that  every  inch  of 
string  is  removed.  Split  the  larger  beans 
down  the  pod,  and  let  the  younger  and 
more  tender  remain  whole.  Wash  them 
in  clear,  cold  water,  letting  them  stand 
about  ten  minutes.  Then  drain  off  the 
water,  put  the  beans  into  a  saucepan, 
cover  well  with  boiling  water,  and  let 
them  boil  for  forty  minutes  or  an  hour, 
according  to  the  tenderness  of  the  beans. 
Just  before  serving  drain  off  water,  put 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  the 
beans,  mix  well,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  serve  hot. 

String:    Beans    Witli    Cream    Sance. 

Haricots  Verts  a  la  Creme. 

2  Quarts  of  Fresh  String  Beans.  1  Table- 
spoonful  of  Butter. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour.  1-2  Cup  of 
Fresh  Milk  or  Cream. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
String  and  wash  the  beans  according 
to  the  first  recipe.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  them 
boil  for  an  hour.  Then  drain  off  the 
water.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  one  of  flour,  and  blend  well.  Add 
a  half  cup  of  fresh  milk  or  cream,  or 
one-half  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the 
beans  have  been  boiled.  Season  nicely 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  in  the  beans; 
set  them  back  on  the  stove  for  several 
minutes:  let  them  simmer  gently.  Season 
again  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
serve  hot.  The  flour  may  be  omitted, 
and.  Instead,  dilute  the  milk  with  the 
yolks  of. two  eggs,  but  do  not  boil  after 
adding  the  eggs. 

String  Beans,   Brittany   Style. 
Haricots  Verts  a  la  Bretonne. 

2  Quarts   of  Fresh  String  Beans. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Butter.     1  Table- 
spoonful of  Flour. 
1   Piiit   of   Chicken   Consomme    or   Water. 

1  Medium-Sized  Onion. 

Chopped    Parsley    to    Garnish.     Salt    and 

Pepper   to   Taste. 

Take  a  medium-sized  onion,  peel  and 
cut  into  small  dlce-sbaped  pieces.  Put 
the  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter 
and  let  it  saute  to  a  golden  brown.  Add 
the  flour  gradually,,  blending  well,  and 
moisten  with  the  consomme  or  -water. 
L.et  the  mixture  come  to  a  boil  and  skim 
the  bro'h:  then  add  the  string  beans, 
which  have  already  been  boiled  and 
drained.  I>et  them  simmer  for  ten  min- 
utes, adding  in  the  meantime  one  finely- 
minced  clove  of  garlic.  After  ten  rqin- 
utes  place  the  beans  in  a  hot  dish, 
sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve 
hot. 


String    Beans    a    la    Vinaigrette 

Haricots   Verts    cl   la   Vinaigrette. 

2  Quarts  of  String  Beans. 
A  Sauce  a  la  Vinaigrette. 
Boil   the   string  beans   according  to   re- 
cipe.    (See  recipe  String  Beans  with  But- 
ter Sauce.)     When  done,  drain  and  serve 
with    a    Vinaigrette    Sauce.     Garnish    the 
dish  with  sliced  lemon  dipped  in  parsley, 
which    has    been    chopped    very    fine,   and 
small  gherkins  cut  in  fan  shapes. 
String    Beans    a   la    Foulette. 
Haricots  Verts  a  la  Poulette. 

2   Quarts   of   String  Beans. 
A  Sauce  a  la  Poulette. 

Boil  the  beans  as  in  the  recipe  for 
String  Beans  with  Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 
Drain  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  a  la  Pou- 
lette  poured   over. 

String    Beans   Boiled    With   Ham. 

Haricots  Verts   au   Jambon. 

2    Quarts    of    String   Beans. 

1  Pound  of  Lean  Ham  or  Salt  Pork. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Proceed  to  prepare  the  beans  in  exactly 
the  same  manner"  as  mentioned  above. 
Throw  them  into  cold  water,  and  let 
them  stand  for  about  ten  minutes.  Have 
ready  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  water 
in  "which  you  will  have  placed  a  pound 
of  salt  pork  or  ham,  and  allowed  to  boil 
for  almost  an  hour.  Orain  the  beans 
and  put  them  into  this,  and  let  them  boil 
forty  minutes  or  an  hour  longer.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  only,  and  serve,  placing 
the  salt  pork  or  ham  in  the  center  of  the 
dish,  and  heaping  the  beans  around.  This 
is  an  excellent  "way  of  utilizing  the  ham 
bone  which  is  left  over  from  the  boiled 
ham.  The  Creoles  like  the  flavoring  of 
ham  or  salt  pork  in  vegetables.  A  bit 
of  fine  herbs,  nicely  minced,  and  one 
onion,  minced  fine,  greatly  add  to  the 
flavor  of  this  dish. 

String    Beans    Panaches. 
Haricots  Verts   Panaches. 

1  Pint  of  String  Beans. 

1  Pint  of  Lima  Beans.     2  Tablespoonfuls 

of    Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  string  beans  and  cut  them  into 
pieces  of  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
in  length;  mix  them  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  boiled  Lima  beans  (see  recipe); 
put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter;  let  them  saute  for 
five  minutes,  and  toss  continually  while 
cooking.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle 
with  finely-chopped  parsley  and  serve 
hot. 

BED    BEANS. 
Haricots   Rouges. 

Red  Beans  is  the  favorite  dish  among 
Creole  families,  the  great  amount  of  sus- 
tenance to  be  found  in  this  and  the 
White  Bean  commendins  it  especially  as 
a  food  for  growing  children  and  adults 
who  labor  hard.  The  beautiful  color  and 
excellent  flavor  of  the  Red  Bean  has  won 
for  it  a  place  among  the  most  highly 
esteemed  legumes. 

Red    Beans,    Plain    Boiled. 

Haricots    Verts    au    Naturel. 

1  Pint   of  Dried  Red  Beans. 

1-2   Spoonful    of   Lard   or  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 


134 


This  is  an  excellent  way  of  preparing 
Red  Beans  for  Fridays  and  fast  days. 
S'oak  the  beans  in  cold  water  over  night, 
or  at  least  five  or  six  hours,  and  drain 
off  the  water,  and  place  them  in  a  pot 
of  cold  water,  using  at  least  a  quart  of 
water  to  a  pint  of  beans.  l*et  them  boil 
for  at  least  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two 
hours,  and  then  season  nicely  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Add  a  half  tablespoonful  of 
lard  or  butter,  let  them  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  more,  and  serve  in  their  own 
juice.  This  dish  is  excellent  with  boiled 
rice. 

Bed  Beans^  Burgundy  Style. 

Haricots   Rouges   a,   la   Bourguigonne. 

1  Quart  of  Red  Beans. 

1    Ounce    of    Butter.    1    Onion.    2    Cloves. 

1   Herb    Bouquet. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1   Glass  of  Claret  Wine.     6  Small   Glazed 

Onions. 

Pick  and  wash  the  beans  and  let  them 
£oak  in  cold  water  for  six  hours.  Drain 
thoroughly,  and  put  In  a  saucepan,  with 
sufficient  fresh  cold  water  to  cover.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  medium- 
sized  onion,  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it. 
Boil  for  about  twenty  minutes,  and  then 
add  a  glass  of  Claret.  Stir  well,  and  let 
the  beans  cook  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  longer,  stirring  frequently  to  keep 
from  scorching.  Then  remove  from  the 
fire,  take  out  the  herb  bouquet  and  onion, 
pour  the  beans  into  a  hot  dish,  and  dec- 
orate the  edges  with  a  half  dozen  small 
glazed    onions.     (S'ee    recipe.)     Serve    hot. 

Bed    Beans    a   la    Conde. 

Puree  a  la  Conde, 
See  recipe  under  heading  "Soups."  This 
is  a  most  nutritious  dish. 

Bed   Beans    and   Bice. 

Haricots   Rouges   au   Riz. 

1  Quart  of  Dried  Red  Beans. 

1    Carrot.     1    Onion.     1    Bay    Leaf. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Pound    of   Ham   or   Salt   Meat. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  over 
night,  or  at  least  five  or  six  hours,  in 
fresh,  cold  water.  When  ready  to  cook, 
drain  off  this  water  and  put  the  beans  in 
a  pot  of  cold  water,  covering  with  at 
least  two  quarts,  for  beans  must  cook 
thoroughly.  Let  the  water  heat  slowly. 
Then  add  the  ham  or  salt  pork,  and  the 
herbs  and  onion  and  carrot,  minced  fine. 
Boil  the  beans  at  least  two  hours,  or 
until  tender  enough  to  mash  easily  un- 
der pressure.  When  tender,  remove  from 
the  pot,  put  the  salt  meat  or  ham  on  top 
of  the  dish,  and  serve  "hot  as~  a  vegetable, 
with  boiled  rice  as  an  entree,  with  Veal 
S'aute,  Daube  a  la  Mode,  Grillades  a  la 
Sauce,  etc. 

Puree   of   Bed    Beans. 

Puree  d'Haricots  Rouges. 

1  Quart  of  Dried  Red  Beans. 
1    Carrot.     1    Onion.     1    Bay    Leaf. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1-2  Pound  of  Ham  or  Lean  Salt  Pork. 
1-2  Pint  of  Cream   or  Milk. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Prepare  the  beans  as   In   the  preceding 
recipe    if   It    is    desired    to    make    a    puree 
(not    a    soup) .     Remove    the    beans    from 
the  fire  as  soon   as  they  will  mash  very 
easily  under  pressure.     Take  out  the  bits 
of  ham.     Press  the  beans  through   a  col- 
ander.    Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  as 
you  return  them  to  the  pot  in  which  they 
have    been    boiled,    and    a    half    pint    of 


cream  or  milk,  or  sufficieqt  according  to 
quantity  to  make  the  puree  of  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  starch  or  mashed  pota- 
toes. Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve. 

Bacon  and  Beans  a  la  Creole. 

Haricots  au  Petit  Sale  a  la  Creole. 

1    Quart    of    Dried    Red    Beans.    1   Pound 

of  Bacon. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  Drain  off 
all  water.  Place  in  a  pot  and  cover  well 
with  cold  water,  in  the  proportions  al- 
ready mentioned.  Add  the  bacon,  leaving 
it  in  a  single  square  piece.  When  both 
have  boiled  about  two  hours,  season  well 
with  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  if  neces- 
sary, and  place  the  bacon  in  the  center 
of  a  baking  dish.  Drain  the  beans  and 
put  them  around  the  bacon.  Fill  the  pan 
to  the  top  with  liquor  in  which  the  beans 
have  been  boiled,  arid  bake  one  hour  and 
a  half,  or  until  the  liquor  is  nearly  all 
absorbed.  Then  serve  hot.  White  beans 
may  also  be  cooked  in  this  fashion. 

Bean   Polenta. 

Polente   d'Haricots. 

2    Cups    of   Dried   Beans. 
1  Tablespoonful   of   Molasses.    1-2  Table- 
spoonful  of  Mustard. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.     1  Tablespoon- 

ful of  Vinegar. 

Juice    of    1    Lemon.     Salt    and    Pepper  to 

Taste. 

XJse  either  white  or  red-  beans.  Wash 
two  cupfuls  of  dried  beans,  having  pre- 
viously soaked  them  over  night.  Pour 
off  the  water.  Put  the  beans  in  the  stew- 
pan  and  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  and 
cook  the  beans  until  tender.  Pour  into 
a  colander,  and  press  the  beans  through. 
Put  this  pulp  into  the  stewpan,  and  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  ready-made  mus- 
tard, one  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  one 
of  butter,  one  of  vinegar,  the  juice  of 
an  onion,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Serve  very  hot,  as  a  vegetable. 

WHITE    BEANS. 

Des  Haricots  Blancs. 
W^hite  Beans  may  be  prepared  in  ex- 
actly the  same  manner  as  Red  Beans, 
using  any  of  the  above  recipes.  By  many 
the  WTiite  Bean  is  preferred  as  the  more 
delicate  bean. 

White    Beans     a    la     Maltre    d'Hotel. 

Haricots   Blancs  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

1   Quart   of  WTiite  Beans. 

2  Sprigs   of  Minced   Thyme   and  Parsley. 

1    Bay    Leaf. 
Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Prepare  the  White  Beans  and  cook  in 
exactly  the  same  manner  as  Red  Beans  a 
la  Maitre  d'Hotel.  Before  adding  the 
butter,  however,  add  a  minced  sprig  of 
thyme,  bay  leaf  and  parsley,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  them  simmer 
for  a  few  minutes  on  the  fire,  and  then 
take  off  and  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

DBIED     PEAS. 

Des  Pols  Sees. 
All  dried  peas,  whether  the  Black-eyed 
Peas.  Lady  Peas,  etc.,  may  be  cooked 
according  to  any  of  the  above  recipes. 
Be  careful  to  soak  them  over  night  m 
cold  water,  or  at  least  six  hours  from 
the  early  morning,  before  beginning  to 
cook. 


135 


COWPEAS. 

Pois    Congrris. 

These  peas  are  utilized  by  the  Creoles 
in  making  that  famous  dish,  "Jambalaya 
au  Congri."  (See  recipe  under  heading 
"Louisiana  Rice.")  On  Fridays  the  rice 
and  peas,  which  are  always  boiled  sep- 
arately, must  not  be  cooked  with  meat.  It 
tliis  day  is  kept  as  a  fast  day.  The  peas 
and  rice  are  mixed  well  together  and  are 
eaten  with   butter. 

BUTTBBBEANS. 

Feves    Plates. 
1  Pint  of  Butterbeans.     2  Pints  of  Water. 

1  Tablespoonful    (Heaping)    of  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

The  Butterbean  is  one  of  the  most  re- 
cherche and  delicate  of  our  Louisiana 
vegetables.  Soak  the  Butterbeans  for 
about  a  half  hour  in  water.  Pour  off 
this  cold  fresh  water,  and  then  put  them 
in  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan,  or  one  of 
agate,  and  cover  with  two  pints  of  water. 
Let  them  boil  well  for  about  an  hour,  or 
less,  if  they  are  very  tender.  As  soon  as 
they  crush  easily  under  pressure  take  off 
the  fire,  drain  off  water,  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  well  with 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  parsley,  minced  very  fine, 
and  serve  hot. 

LIMA  BEANS. 

Haricots  a  Rames. 

1  Pint  of  Lima  Beans.     3  Pints  of  Water. 

1  TablespaQjiful  of  Flour. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.     1-2    Pint    of 

Cream. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Soak  the  small  ones  over  night.  Drain 
the  water  when  about  to  cook,  and  put 
in  a  porcelain  or  agate  saucepan,  and 
cover  with  three  pints  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  them  until  very  tender,  which  will 
require'  at  least  two  hours.  After  they 
have  boiled  one  hour,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  or  salt  to  taste.  When  done, 
drain  the  beans  and  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan. Add  a  half  pint  of  cream  or  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  blended  well 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a 
sprig  each  of  thyme  and  parsley  and  bay 
leaf  minced  very  fine.  Let  all  simmer 
for  ten  minutes,  and  then  serve  hot.  Or 
the  beans  may  be  served  without  the 
cream,  simply  buttering  well  and  adding 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  All  shelled 
beans,  such  as  the  Kidney  and  the  small 
French  bean,  may  be  cooked  in  the  same 
way. 

Bean    Croquettes. 
Haricots  en  Croquettes. 

1  Pint  of  Beans.    1  Tablespoonful   of 

Butter. 

S'alt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Any  remains  of  left-over  beans  may  be 
nicely  utilized  in  this  way.  Mash  the 
beans  well  by  pressing  through  a  colan- 
der. Then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  table- 
spoonful of  melted  butter.  Form  into 
small  boulettes.  or  balls,  and  dip  in  a 
raw  egg,  well  beaten,  and  then  roll  in 
the  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  fat. 
and    serve    hot. 

BEETS 
Des  Betteraves. 

We  have  in  New  Orleans  two  crops  of 
beets,  the  winter  beet  and  the  summer 
beet.  Summer  beets  require  less  time  to 
boil  than  the  winter.  Good  Judgment 
must  always  be  the  guide. 


Beets  may  be  kept  several  days  when 
boiled,   and  make  a  beautiful  garnish. 

The  small  winter  beets  may  be  served 
aux  Beurre  Maitre  d'Hotel,  or  they  may 
be  sauted  in  butter  or  served  Sautees  a 
la  Creme  or  a  la  Bechamel.  Beet  roots 
are  generally  served  as  a  salad  or  gar- 
nish. Always  cut  off  .and  save  the  green 
tops  of  the  beets.  These  may  be  boiled 
with  salt  meat,  or  made  into  a  puree,  or 
used  in  the  famous  Creole  Gumbo  aux 
Herbes. 

Boiled    Beets. 

Betteraves    Bouillis. 

6    Beet    Roots.     2   Quarts   of    Water. 

A  Plain   French  Dressing  (if  served  as  a, 

salad) . 

Cut  off  the  beet  tops  and  save  for 
boiling  or  puree  or  gumbo.  Soak  the 
beets  in  cold  fresh  water,  and  wash  well, 
taking  off  every  particle  of  earth  that 
may  adhere.  Wash  them  carefully,  with- 
out scraping  them.  If  the  beet  is  very 
tender,  it  will  cook  in  an  hour.  Older 
beets  require  all  the  way  from  three  to 
four  hours  according  to  size.  If  the  beet 
is  wilted  or  tough,  no  amount  of  boiling 
will  ever  make  it  perfectly  tender.  If 
you  break  the  skins  of  the  beets  before 
cooking,  the  flavor  will  be  lost,  as  well 
as  the  color,  when  boiled.  Put  the  beets 
into  a  pot  of  cold  water,  covering  well, 
and  boil  until  tender.  Then  set  them  to 
cool.  When  cold,  slice  nicely  and  sprin- 
kle with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
add  vinegar,  and  set  aside  for  an  hour, 
for  the  vinegar  to  penetrate  thoroughly. 
Serve   as   a   salad. 

Buttered  Beets. 

Betteraves  au  Beurre. 
6  Beet  Roots.'  1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
The  small  winter  beets  may  be  served 
aux  Beurre  Maitre  d'Hotel,  by  cookmg 
very  tender  and  then  slicing  nicely,  and 
pouring  over  them  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  and  sprinkling  nicely  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Vinegar  may  also  be 
added  at  the  table,  according  to  the 
taste. 

Beet   Boots   Santed   in   Butter. 

Betteraves  Sautees  au  Beurre. 

6    Beets.     1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 

A  Pinch  of  Black  Pepper. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Boil  the  beet  roots  as  in  recipe  for 
Boiled  Beets.  (See  recipe.)  When  cooked, 
peel  neatly  and  cut  up  into  dice-shaped 
pieces.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a. 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  season  with  a 
little  pinch  of  black  pepper  and  salt  to- 
taste  and  sprinkle  the  powdered  sugar 
over  them.  Let  them  cook  for  five  min- 
utls.  tossing  them  lightly  and  almost 
coiista-^tly.  Send  to  the  table  hot  as  a 
vegetable. 

Beet  Boots  Saute  a  la  Bechamel  ou   a  la 
Creme. 

Betteraves    Sautees    a   la   Bechamel    ou    a. 

la   Creme. 

6  Beet  Rooits.     1  Ounce  of  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1-2  Pint  of  Bechamel  or  Cream  Sauce. 

Prepare  the  beets  exactly  as  in  the  pre- 
ceding recipe,  and  about  five  minutes  be- 
?ori  serving  idd  half  a  pint  of  hot  Becha- 
mel or  Cream  Sauce.  Serve  as  a  vege- 
table. 


136 


Borecole   or   Curled   Kale. 

Chou  Vert. 

This  is  a  vegetable  cultivated  by  Lou- 
isiana truck  farmers  principally  for  fam- 
ily use.  It  requires  frost  to  make  it  good 
for  the  table.  It  is  treated  and  served  in 
the  same  manner  as  cabbage:  all  recipes 
for  cooking  cabbage  may,  therefore,  be 
used  in  preparing  Chou  Vert. 

BBOCCOI.I. 

Chou  Broccoli. 

Broccoli  is  a  vegetable  of  the  same  or- 
der as  the  Cauliflower,  and  resembles  it 
very  much,  only  the  plant  does  not  form 
such  compact  heads,  and  is  not  quite  so 
white,  being  of  a  greenish  cast.  It  is 
prepared  and  served  in  all  ways  in  which 
Cauliflower  is  served.  (See  recipes  for 
Cauliflower.) 

BBUSSEIiS     SPEOUTS. 

Choux   de  Bruzelles. 

1   Quart   of  Brussels   Sprouts. 

1-2  Gallon  of  Water.     1  Tablespoonful  of 

Salt. 

Pick  the  sprouts  carefully,  rejecting  all 
loose,  dead  leaves,  and  then  throw  the 
sprouts  into  cold  fresh  waier,  so  that  any 
lurking  insects  may  be  drawn  out.  Wash 
and  pick  carefully  after  the  sprouts  have 
remained  about  twenty  min,utes  in  the 
water.  Then  put  them  into  half  a  gallon 
of  boiling  water,  and  add  immediately  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a 
spoon  of  bicarl)onate  of  soda  (cooking 
soda).  Let  the  sprouts  boil  (uncovered) 
for  twenty  minutes,  or  just  long  enough 
to  make  them  tender  all  through.  By  no 
means  must  they  be  soft,  or  go  to  pieces. 
Boil  rapidly.  Then  drain  in  a  colander, 
season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve  in  a  heated  dish  with  a  Drawn  But- 
ter Sauce  poured  over.     (See  sauces.) 

Brnseels   Sprouts   Sauted  In   Batter, 

Choux  de  Bruxelles  Sautes  au  Beurre. 

1    Quart   of  Brussels  Sprolits. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter.    1  Teaspoon- 

ful    of   Chopped    Parsley. 

S'alt  and  Pepper  *.o  Taste. 

Prepare  the  Brussels  Sprouts  carefully 
as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  After  wash- 
ing, drain  thoroughly  and  boil  them  In 
salted  water  for  ten  minutes.  Take  out 
of  the  hot  water,  drain  and  put  into  cold 
water.  Drain  again  and  put  them  in  a 
saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Season  according  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley.  Let  them  cook 
slightly  for  ten  minutes  more,  or  less  If 
very  tender,  and  serve  hot. 

Brussels   Sprouts  a  la  Creme. 

Choux  de  Brussels  a  la  Creme. 

1  Quart  of  Brussels  Sprouts. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1-2  Cupful  of  Cream  or  Milk. 

A  Pinch  of  Nutmeg. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Prepare  and  boil  the  Brussels  Sprouts 
as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  Drain  thor- 
oughly, and  put  In  a  saucepan,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg.  Add  a  half  cup  of  cream  or 
milk,  and  toss  lightly  for  five  or  ten 
minutes,  but  do  not  let  them  boil.  Place 
on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  nicely  and  serve 
hot. 


CABBAGE. 

Du    Chou. 

Cabbage  is  said  to  be  the  most  nutri- 
tious of  all  vegetables.  It  enters  largely 
into  the  daily  life  of  the  Creoles,  not 
only  in  the  boiled  and  creamed  and 
stuffed  states,  but  also  in  that  most  de- 
lightful Creole  dish.  Gumbo  Choux.  We 
have  two  crops  of  cabbage  in  New  Or- 
leans, the  summer  and  winter.  It  is  said 
that  when  cabbage  is  cooking  the  odor 
fills  the  house.  But  the  Creoles  over- 
come this  by  using  a  very  large  pot 
when  boiling  cabbage,  dropping  in  a  bit 
of  charcoal,  and  not  filling  it  too  near 
the  brim,  as  the  old  darkies  say  it  is  the 
boiling  water  that  forms  into  steam  and 
causes  the  odor.  Again,  they  tie  a  piece 
of  bread  in  a  very  fine  and  thin  white 
piece  of  cloth.  After  it  has  been  in  the 
pot  about  twenty  minutes  remove  it  and 
burn,  for  the  odor  of  the  cabbage  has 
clung  to  it.  Repeat  the  process  with  a 
fresh  piece  of  cloth  and  bread  for  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Boiled    Cabbage. 

Chou  Boullli. 

A    Fine    Head    of    Green    and    White 

Cabbage. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt.    1    Red    Pepper 

Pod. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Chill  Pepper. 

For  boiling,  select  a  fine  head  in  which 
the  green  and  white  are  prettily  mingled. 
The  white  makes  the  prettiest  dish.  Re- 
move all  the  outside  leaves  and  reject 
them.  Then  cut  the  cabbage  head  into 
quarters,  and  let  it  soak  in  cold  water 
for  about  an  hour.  Then  drain  well, 
and  pull  off  each  leaf  separately  to  dis- 
cover any  lurking  insects,  and  throw 
each  leaf  into  a  pan  or  fresh  water. 
Drain  thoroughly,  and  put  Into  a  large 
pot  of  boiling  water  with  a  pound  of 
ham  or  salt  pork,  and  let  it  cook  for  an 
hour  or  more,  until  render.  After  it 
has  been  in  the  water  ten  minutes  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  red  pepper 
pod,  cut  in  two.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of 
Chili  i>epper.  Cover  the  cabbage  and  boil 
for  one  hour,  if  the  cabbage  is  very 
young  and  tender;  boil  for  two  hours  or 
more  if  not.  W^hen  done  drain  well  of 
all  water,  and  place  in  a  dish  with  the 
salt  meat  or  ham  on  top,  and  serve  hot 
Cabbage  is  always  eaten  with  a  little 
vinegar.  The  Creoles  serve  boiled  cab- 
bage with  the  pepper  vinegar  which  they 
put  up  themselves. 

Cabbage    and    Corned    Beef. 

Chou  et  Boeuf  au  Mi-sel. 

1    Fine    Head    of    Cabbage.    1    Pound    of 

Corn  Beef. 

1  Red  Pepper  Pod. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Chill  Pepper. 

To  boll  corned  beef  and  cabbage,  wash 
the  meat  in  cold  water  and  put  it  in  a 
large  kettle;  cover  with  cold  water.  Let 
it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Then 
add  the  cabbage,  which  you  will  have 
prepared  according  to  directions  in  the 
above  recipe,  and  let  all  boil  for  two 
hours  longer.  When  done,  put  the  cab- 
bage in  a  dish,  with  the  meat  in  the 
center,  and  serve  with  tomato  catsup  or 
horseradish  or  mustard  sauce.  The  cab- 
bage may  be  put  in  the  pot  after  having 
been  cut  in  four  quarters  and  soaked, 
but  it  is  always  safer  to  pick  over  each 
leaf,    for   tear    of   insects. 


337 


Stewed    Cabbage. 

Chou   Etouffe. 

1  Head    of    Cabbage.     1    Pound    Ham    or 

Salt  Pork. 

Salt  to  Taste.     Pinch  of  Red  Pepper  Pod. 

1   Tablespoonful   of   Lard. 

Parboil  the  cabbage  after  cutting  into 
quarters.  Let  it  boll  well  about  half 
an  hour.  Then  take  it  out  of  the  water 
and  drain  nicely,  separating  the  leaves 
down  to  the  heart  as  it  cools.  Cut  the 
ham  into  pieces  of  about  two  inches 
long.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and 
put  in  a  stewing  pan,  which  must  be 
very  deep,  or  a  pot.  Put  into  this  the 
ham  or  salt  meat,  and  let  it  fry  well. 
Add  two  chaurioe,  Br  sausage.  As  these 
brown  well  moisten  witn  half  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  simmer  gently  for 
fifteen  minutes.  "When  well  browned 
add,  little  by  little,  the  cabbage,  stirring 
it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  an 
hour  and  a  half  or  longer,  covering  well, 
and  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Add  an  inch  of  red  pepper  pod,  cut 
fine,  and  salt  to  taste  if  you  use  ham, 
and  none  at  all  it  you  use  salt  meat. 
Serve  hot. 

Cabbage    Stewed    With    Sausage. 

Saucissons    aux    Choux. 

2  Dozen    Fine    Sausage.^    (Chaurice    Pre- 

ferred). 

1  Head  of  Cabbage. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard.     Salt  to   Taste. 

1  Inch  of  Red  Pepper  Pod. 

1  Pound  Fresh  Pork. 

This  is  a  famous  Creole  dish,  for  many 
generations  in  vogue  in  New  "Orleans, 
and  dearly  loved  by  the  little  Creole  chil- 
dren. Wash  the  cabbage  well,  after  hav- 
ing^ cut  it  into  quarters  and  allowed  it  to 
soak  half  an  hour.  Cut  the  cabbage  into 
shreds  of  aboijt  one  inch  in  width  and 
five  in  length,  according  to  the  leaf. 
Then  scald  the  cabbage  with  boiling  wa- 
ter for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Throw  off 
this  water,  and  cover  it  again  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  it  boil  for  twenty  min- 
utes. In  the  meanwhile  prick  each 
sausage  in  several  places,  and  cut  the 
meat  into  pieces  of  about  two  Inches  in 
length  and  one  in  thickness;  put  the 
lard  in  the  frying  pan  and  fry  the  saus- 
age and  meat  until  they  are  about  half 
done;  then  drain  the  cabbage  and  turn 
into  the  sausage  and  meat  and  the  fat 
drippings.  Cover  and  stew  gently  where 
it  will  not  scorch,  for  at  least  forty  min- 
utes; season  with  salt,  and  add,  imme- 
diately after  turning  in  the  cabbage,  an 
inch  of  red  pepper  pod.  Let  all  simmer 
till  the  cabbage  is  quite  done,  and  then 
put  in  a  dish  with  the  sausage  and  meat 
piled  in  the  center,  and  the  cabbage 
heaped  around  as  a  border. 

Creamed     Cabbage. 

Chou   a  la   Creme. 

1  Head  of  Tender  'White  Cabbage. 

A  Cream  Sauce. 

Take  a  fine  delicate  head  of  white 
cabbage;  cut  it  in  quarters  and  soak  in 
cold  water  for  an  hour.  Then  remove  all 
the  hard  parts,  and  cut  the  remainder 
into  fine  shreds.  Put  it  into  the  stewing 
pan  and  pour  over  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover;  season  with  salt  and  pepper: 
let  it  boil  at  least  thirty  minutes,  and 
then  drain  in  a  colander.  Have  ready  a 
heated  dish;  turn  the  cabbage  into  this 
and  pour  over  a  Cream  Sauce.  (See  re- 
cipe.) 


Cabbage     Sauted     With     Cream. 

Chou    Saute    a    la    Creme. 

A   Fine  Head   of  White  Cabbage. 
1  Cupful  of  Cream  or  Milk. 
2     Tablespoonfuls     of    (Butter.     ]     Table- 
spoonful of  Flour. 

A  Pinch  of  Black  Pepper.  -  Salt  to  Taste. 
Prepare  the  cabbage  according  to  re- 
cipe. Blanch  in  hot  water  for  ten  min- 
utes, then  drain  and  throw  into  cold 
water.  Drain  again,  and  chop  up  the 
cabbage  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  buiter;  add  the 
salt  to  taste,  and  the  black  pepper.  Take 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  blend  well 
with  a  little  milk,  and  then  mix  well 
with  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk.  Add  this 
to  the  cabbage  and  mix  well,  and  let  all 
cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  or 
an  hour,  till  done;  arrange  neatly  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

Stuffed    Cabbage. 

Chou    Farci. 

1  Head  of  Fine  White  Cabbage. 

1     Dozen     Fine     Chaurice.     2     Onions.    1 

Tomato. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1    Square    Inch    of    Ham.     1    Spoonful    of 

Butter. 

Thyme,   Parsley  and   Bay   Leaf. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Select  a  fine  head  of  cabbage.  Take 
away  the  big,  green  leaves,  and  select 
about  twelve  of  the  finest  a'ld  nicest  of 
the  large  white  leaves.  Put  them  in  cold 
water  for  about  an  hour;  then  parboil 
for  about  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  wa- 
ter. In  the  meantime  prepare  a  stuffing 
with  a  dozen  fine  chaurice,  one  onion 
(chopped  fine),  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  a  tomato.  Mince  the  sausage 
meat  very  fine  after  taking  out  of  the 
cases,  and  also  the  onion  and  tomato. 
Mince  fine  one  sprig  each  of  thyme,  pars- 
ley and  bay  leaf;  add  one  square  inch 
of  finely-minced  ham.  Put  the  butter  in 
the  frying  pan,  and  as  it  browns  add  the 
onions;  let  these  brown,  and  add  the 
sausage  meat  and  the  ham.  Mince  four 
or  five  of  the  tender  white  leaves  of  the 
cabbage  very  fine  and  add;  then  add  the 
minced  clove  of  garlic  and  onion;  let 
these  brown  for  five  minutes,  and  then 
let  all  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Take  out,  and  take  each  l.eaf  by  leaf  of 
the  cabbage  and  drain  dry;  lay  open  on 
the  table  and  put  in  each  leaf  equal 
quantities  of  the  stuffing;  fold  over  and 
close  nicely.  Then  take  slender  strips  of 
bacon  and  lay  at  the  bottom  of  a  wide 
and  deep  frying  pan;  place  the  stuffed 
leaves  on  top  of  these,  and  place  other 
strips  of  bacon  on  top;  cover  and  let 
them  cook  for  a  half  hour,  or  until  the 
cabbage  leaves  are  very  tender.  Take 
out  of  the  pan  and  lay  in  a  heated  dish 
and  serve  very  hot.  The  Creoles  also 
have  a  way  of  making  a  nice  sauce  to 
serve  with  these.  After  laying  the 
stuffed  cabbage  leaves  in  the  frying  pan, 
add  one  square  inch  of  ham,  minced 
very  fine;  two  carrots,  sliced  fine;  one 
onion,  chopped  very  fine,  and  sprigs  of 
thyme,  parsley  and  bay  leaf.  Moisten 
with  a  cup  of  good  bouillon  or  water,  a 
gill  of  White  wine,  and  cover  the  pan 
and  allow  all  to  simmer  well  with  the 
cabbage.  At  the  moment  of  serving  place 
the  cabbage-  in  a  heated  dish  and  allow 
the  sauce  to  reduce  for  five  minutes 
longer;  then  strain  it  through  a  fine 
sieve  and  pour  over  each  stuffed  leaf 
of  cabbage  as  it  is  serve^.  The  stuffed 
cabbage  leaves  may  also  be  thrown  into 


138 


boiling  water  for  thirty  minutes,  after 
being  tied  together  well,  and  served  with 
a   Cream   Sauce.     (See   recipe.) 

Staffed   Cabbage  With  Cream  Sauce. 
Chou    Parci   a   la    Creme. 

1    Fine    Head     Cabbage.    1    Dozen    Fine 

Chaurice.    1  Onion. 

3    Sprigs    Bach    of    Thyme,    Parsley    and 

Bay  Leaf. 

1  Square  Inch  of  Ham. 

1  Inch   of  a  Red  Pepper  Pod. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Select  a  fine  tender  head  of  cabbage. 
Pick  off  the  outer  leaves,  and  let  it  soak 
in  cold  fresh  water  for  an  hour.  Then 
throw  the  whole  head  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  for  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  In  the  meantime  make  a 
stuffing  by  taking  one  dozen  fine 
Chaurice,  or  sausage  meat,  one  onion, 
and  three  sprigs  each  of  thyme  and  pars- 
ley, and  one  bay  leaf.  Mince  the  herbs 
and  onion  very  fine,  and  add  to  them 
one  square  inch  of  finely  minced  ham. 
Chop  the  sausage  meat  over,  and  mingle 
this  with  the  ham  and  herbs,  and  then 
add  the  finely  minced  onion  and 
add  one  clove  of  finely  minced  garlic.  Mix 
these  well  together.  'Season  to  taste. 
Take  the  cabbage  out  of  the  water,  and 
open  carefully  to  the  very  heart,  and 
put  in  a  teaspoontul  of  the  dressing. 
Fold  over  this  two  or  three  leaves,  and 
then  insert  the  mixture  in  between 
another  layer  of  leaves,  and  so  continue 
until  each  layer  of  leaves  has  been  nicely 
stuffed.  Press  all  firmly  together,  and 
then  tie  in  the  large  leaves,  which  you 
will  have  boiled  with  the  cabbage  head. 
Put  it  into  the  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
and  add  a  little  salt  and  two  inches  of  a 
red  pepper  pod,  thyme,  parsley  and  bay 
leaf.  Let  it  boil  for  two  hours.  When 
done  carefully  untie  the  larger  leaves 
In  which  you  have  cooked  the  cabbage, 
and  lay  the  head  in  a  well-heated  dish. 
Pour  over  all  a  Cream  Sauce,  and  serve 
hot.     (See  Cream  Sauce.) 

SAUERKRAUT. 

Chou-Croute. 

1    Fine   Head    of   Cabbage.     1   Pint  of 

Vinegar. 

1   Bottle   of   White   Wine. 

1  Glass  of  Brandy  or  Whisky. 

Salt    in    Sufficient    Quantity    to    Allow    3 

Ounces  for  Each  Layer  of  Cabbage. 

To  prepare  Chou-Croute,  take  a  large 
head  of  cabbage,  and  take  off  the  green 
leaves.  Shred  the  cabbage  into  fine 
pieces,  of  about  five  inches  long  and  one 
"wide.  Then  get  an  earthen  vessel  or  a 
keg,  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  with 
the  green  leaves  of  the  cabbage.  Put  In 
a  layer  of  salt,  of  about  three  ounces 
and  lay  over  this  a  layer  of  cabbage 
leaves  of  about  three  inches  in  thickness. 
Cover  again  with  a  layer  of  salt,  and 
pound  down  well,  and  so  continue  until 
you  have  used  up  the  ctibbage.  Pour 
over  this  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover,  and 
also,  If  possible,  a  bottle  of  AVhite  wine 
and  a  glass  of  Brandy  or  WTiisky.  Take 
some  boards  or  the  cover  of  the  keg  and 
line  them  with  cabbage  leaves,  and  cover 
the  keg  closely.  Put  the  cover  on  the 
keg,  or  the  board  over  the  bowl,  with  a 
fifteen-pound  weight  on  top.  Set  it  In  a 
place  of  even  moderate  temperature.  Bore 
a  hole  in  the  bottom  of  the  keg,  and  In- 
sert a  piece  of  wood.  When  the  cabbage 
begins  to  ferment,  take  the  piece  of 
wood  out,  and  let  the  liquor  from  the 
fermentation  flow  through  this  canal. 
This  will   be  In  about  four  or  five  days. 


After  this  first  operation  open  the  keg 
and  renew  the  vinegar  and  wine,  skim- 
ming the  fermentation  from  the  top,  and 
so  continue  until  the  cabbage  Is  clear 
and  without  odor.  The  Chou-Croute 
should  be  placed  in  a  cool  place.  When 
ready  to  use  take  it  out  and  let  it  soak 
for  two  or  three  hours  in  cool  fresh  wa- 
ter, and  when  quite  fresh-looking  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  and  cook  as  you  would 
cabbage,  with  salt  meat,  pork,  sausage 
or  corned  beef. 

CAUMFI/OWEB. 

Choux-Pleurs. 
Cauliflower    may    be    either   boiled   and 
served  with  various  sauces  or  made  into 
that     delightful     dish,     "Cauliflower     au 
Gratin." 

Boiled    Cauliflower,    Cream    Sauce. 

Choux-Fleus   a  la   Creme. 

2   Medium-Sized  Cauliflowers. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

A    Cream    Sauce.    2    Lemons    Cut    in 

Quarters. 

To  boil  the  cauliflower,  pick  off  the 
outer  leaves,  leaving  only  the  one  deli- 
cate row  near  the  bottom  of  the  flower- 
ets. Cut  the  stem  close  to  the  flowerets. 
W^ash  the  cauliflower  well  in  cold  fresh 
water,  and  then  soak,  with  the  head 
downwards,  about  twenty  minutes,  to 
drain  off  all  possible  insects.  Have  ready 
a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Take  a  nice, 
clean  piece  of  cheesecloth,  and  tie  the 
cauliflower  in  It,  to  prevent  breaking 
while  boiling.  Put  the  cauliflower  in  the 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  with  the  stem 
downwards.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  cover  the  kettle.  Let  the  cauli- 
flower boil  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes, 
according  to  size,  or  until  the  vegetable 
is  tender.  When  cooked,  lift  it  gently 
out  by  the  cheesecloth,  untie  and  set  It 
in  a  dish,  stem  downward.  Pour  over  It 
a  Cream  Sauce  and  serve  hot.  Place  on 
each  plate,  when  serving,  a  quarter  of 
a  lemon,  nicely  cut. 

Cauliflower   Boiled    With   Butter. 

Chou-Fleur    Boullli    au    Beurre. 

2   Medium-Sized   Cauliflowers. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

A    Tablespoonful    of    Salt.    A    Pinch    of 

Pepper. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vinegar. 

Prepare  the  cauliflower  as  in  recipe 
Boiled  Cauliflower,  Cream  Sauce.  After 
picking  and  washing  thoroughly  put  in 
a  saucepan  and  cover  with  cold  water 
Add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  a  table- 
spoonful. of  butter.  Let  it  cook  for  a 
half  hour  and  then  take  the  cauliflower 
from  the  pan  and  drain  through  a  col- 
ander. Place  them  on  a  dish  and  add  a 
sauce  made  of  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  of  vinegar  and  a  dash  of  salt 
and  pepper,  all  mixed  thoroughly,  and 
serve  hot. 

Cauliflower    With    White    Sauce. 

Choux-Fleus   a   la    Sauce    Blanche   ou   au 

Jus. 

1   Large  or  2  Small  Cauliflowers. 

A  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

A   White  Sauce  or  Sauce  Allemande. 

S'eparate  the  cauliflower,  piece  by 
piece,  having  taken  oft  the  outer  leaves 
and  cut  off  the  rough  stalk.  Place  them 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  let  them  boll  rap- 
idly for  about  halt  an  hour,  till  the 
stalks  are  tender.  When  done,  take  them 


139 


out  gently  with  a  skimmer,  that  you  may 
not  break  them.  Place  in  a  bowl  and 
pour  over  a  Sauce  Blanche  or  Sauce  Al- 
lemande. 

Cauliflower  prepared  in  this  manner 
may  be  served  with  a  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Cauliflower  a  la  Vinaigrrette. 

Choux-Fleurs    a    la    Vinaigrette. 

1  Large  or  2  Medium-Sized  Cauliflowers. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vinegar. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  as  above,  and 
serve  "a  la  Vinaigrette,"  that  is,  with 
vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  This  is  a  com- 
mon and  pleasant  way  that  the  Creoles 
have   of   serving  the   vegetable. 

Cauliflower    a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

Choux-Pleurs    a   la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

1  Large  or  2  Medium-Sized  Cauliflowers. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

A  Sauce  a   la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  whole,  as  in  the 
first  recipe.  Bring  them  to  the  table 
whole,  like  blooming  flowerets,  in  a  dish 
nicely  garnished,  and  serve  with  a  Sauce 
a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel  and  lemon  cut  in 
quarters. 

Oanllflower    au    Gratin. 

Choux-Fleurs   au    Gratin. 

1    Ordinary-Sized    Head    of    Cauliflower. 

1  Pint  of   Cream. 
1-2      Pint      of      Grated      Parmesan      and 
Gruyere    Cheese,    Mixed. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.    1  Tablespoon- 
ful  of   Flour. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  as  in  the  first  re- 
cipe. When  boiled,  take  it  off  the  fire 
and  take  out  of  the  cheesecloth  in  which 
it  was  enveloped.  Let  it  cool.  Put  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter  into  the  frying  pan, 
and  as  it  melts  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour.  Let  these  blend  nicely,  without 
browning,  and  add  immediately  half  a 
pint  of  milk  and  half  a  pint  of  grated 
Parmesan  or  Gruyere  cheese.  Mix  this 
thoroughly  in  the  sauce,  and  let  it  cook 
well  Jor  about  ten  minutes.  Put  the 
cauliflower  in  a  pan,  or  the  dish  tn 
which  it  is  to  be  serired,  having  greased 
the  disb  with  butter.  Take  some  grated 
cheese,  sprinkle  well  over  the  cauliflower, 
and  then  cover  the  cauliflower  with  the 
sauce,  forcing  it  down  into  every  nook 
and  crevice.  "WTien  these  crevices  are 
full,  and  the  cauliflower  seems  to  have 
absorbed  all,  wipe  the  edges  and  all 
around  the  dish  with  a  napkin.  Then 
add  grated  bread  crumbs,  sprinkling 
them  over  the  cauliflower;  dot  it  in 
about  a  dozen  places  with  little  bits  of 
butter.  Set  it  in  the  oven,  let  it  brown, 
and  serve  hot.  Let  it  bake  about  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  brown. 

OABBOTS. 

Des    Carottes. 

Carrots  are  among  the  most  important 
of  the  vegetables  used  in  seasoning. 
They  enter  largely  into  the  making  of 
soups,  daubes,  stews,  etc.,  giving  to  all 
a  delightful  flavor,  which  no  other  vege- 
table can-  Eaten  "au  jus"  or  in  their 
natural  state,  they  may  be  stewed,  fried 
or  smothered.  Any  one  of  these  dishes 
makes  a  delightful  and  appetizing  entree. 


Stewed   Carrots 

Carottes   a    la   Creme. 

4  Carrots  of  Good  Size. 

1  Tablespoonful   Butter.    1  Tablespoonful 

Flour.    1-2   Pint   of  Milk. 

Salt    and   Pepper   to   Taste. 

Scrape  the  carrots  and  throw  them  Into 
cold  water  for  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Then  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  and 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Add  the  salt, 
and  let  them  cook  for  an  hour  and  a 
half,  boiling  steadily.  After  this  time 
expires  take  them  out  and  drain  off  all 
water.  Then  cut  neatlv  into  one-half 
inch  dice  pieces,  or  slice  thin.  Put  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan, 
and  add  the  flour,  blending  well,  but 
without  browning.  Then  add  the  milk, 
and  let  it  simmer  to  a  rich  cream  sauce. 
Add  the  carrots  to  this,  and  let  them 
simmer  gently  for  about  twenty  minutes. 
Then  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  and 
sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

Carrots    a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel, 

Carottes  a  la  Maitre   d'Hotel. 

4  Good-Sized  Carrots. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

3    Sprigs    Each    of    Thyme    and    Parsley. 

1  Bay  Leaf. 

Salt  and  Pepper. 

S'crape  the  carrots  and  boil  them  at  the 
same  time  that  you  are  making  your 
soup,  or  bouillon,  leaving  them  wnole. 
When  done  and  ready  to  serve,  skim  out 
of  the  soup,  and  place  in  a  dish.  Cut 
them  into  pieces,  more  or  less  large,  and 
then  place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  minced  parsley, 
thyme,  bay  leaf.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  when  they  have  cooked  for 
about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  pour  over 
a  Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel,  and  serve 
hot.  The  carrots  may  also  be  simply 
boiled,  seasoned,  and  served  with  a 
Drawn   Butter  Sauce. 

Carrots    a    la    Lyonnalse. 
Carottes   a    la    Lyonnaise. 

3  Carrots.     1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1    Onion,    Minced   Very   Fine. 
Salt,  Pepper,  Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf. 
Boil    the    carrots    according    to    recipe 
,  given     above,     and    then     cut    into     thin 
slices.     Fry   an   onion   in   butter,   add  the 
carrots.    Sprinkle     well     with     salt     and 
pepper,    and    add   minced    thyme,    parsley 
and    bay    leaf.     Fry    ten     minutes,     and 
serve  hot. 

Carrots    Sautes    »    la    Creole. 
Carottes   Sautees  a  la  Creole. 

9  Nice  Tender  Carrots.    1  Tomato. 
1     Square     Inch     Ham.    1     Tablespoonful 
Butter. 
6  Fine  Chaurice  or  Sausages. 
3  Shallots.    1  Onion.    1-2  Pint  of  Bouillon. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
1  Gill  White  Wine. 
Thyme,     Parsley,     Bay     Leaf.    1-2     Clove 
Garlic. 
Boil   the   carrots   for    one   hour   and   a 
half.     Then    cut   into   dice    or   nice   slices. 
Put  the  butter  in  the  saucepan,  and  add 
the    onions,    minced    very    fine,    and    the 
shallots,    greens    and    whites.     Let    these 
brown   for  a  few  minutes,   and  then  add 
the    half   square   inch    of   ham   and   three 
Chaurice    whole,     l^et    these    simmer    for 
three  minutes,  and  add  the  minced  herbs. 
Then  add  the  tomato  and  its  Juice,  minc- 
ing   it    well.     Let    all    simmer    for    three 
minutes      more,      till      the      tomato      has 


140 


browned,  and  add  a  half  pint  of  bouillon 
and  one  gill  of  White  wine,  if  you  can 
afford  it.  Let  all  this  simmer  for  ten 
minutes,  and  then  add  the  carrots,  nicely 
seasoned.  Stir  well.  Cover  and  let  them 
simmer  for  about  half  an  hour.  Serve 
hot.  This  is  a  true  dish  of  Carrots  a  la 
Creole.     Eat   with    Daube,    Roast,    etc 

CBtEBY. 

Du  Celerl. 

Celery  may  be  eaten  "au  naturel,"  that 
Is,  in  its  natural  state;  or  in  salad,  or  it 
may  be  cooked.  When  cooked,  it  is  best 
a  la  Creme,  or  in  a  Puree  of  Celery. 
(See  recipe.) 

Celery    an    Natnrel. 

Celeri   au    Naturel, 

Scrape  and  wash  the  celery  nicely. 
Then  cot  off  the  long  outer  leaves,  leav- 
ing the  tips  nice  and  crisp.  Set  in  a 
celery  glass  or  bowl,  with  about  one  inch 
of  salt  and  water,  and  serve  as  an  appe- 
tizer, or  hors  d'oeuvre,  at  the  beginning 
of  the  meal 

Celery  makes  a  pretty  decoration  for 
any  table.  The  leaves  that  have  been 
cut  off  should  be  saved  and  used  as 
garnishes,   and  also  for  seasoning. 

Creamed    Celery. 

Celeri  a  la  Creme. 

1   Pint   of   Cut   Celery. 

1  Cupful  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.    1  Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Cut  fresh,  crisp  celery  into  pieces  of 
an  inch,  until  you  have  a  pint.  Wash 
thoroughly,  and  put  in  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  tender,  which  will  be  in  about 
twenty-five  minutes  or  a  half  hour.  Then 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  add  the  flour,  blending  without 
allowing  to  brown.  When  perfectly 
smooth,  add  the  cream  or  milk  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil.  Then  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Drain  out  the  celery, 
and  add  it  to  the  sauce,  and  stir  gently, 
letting  it  cook  twenty  minutes  longer. 
Serve  hot.  The  dish  should  be  kept  cov- 
ered while  cooking. 

Celery  root  and  the  green  stalks  of  the 
celery,  which  you   do  not  serve  at  table, 
may  also  be  utilized  in  this  way,  making  , 
a  most  acceptable  and  palatable  dish. 

Celery   a   I'Cspagnole. 

Celeri     a     I'Espagnole. 

4   Stalks   of  Celery.    2  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

1    Onion. 

Salt  and  Pepper  and  1  Tablespoonful 

Vinegar. 

This  IS  a  form  of  celery  salad.  Wash 
and  scrape  the  celery  well,  and  then  chon 
it  fine.  Chop  an  onion  very  fine,  ana 
also  several  sprigs  of  parsley.  Take  a 
hard-boiled  egg  and  cut  fine.  Mix  all 
these  together,  pour  over  a  little  Tarra- 
gon vinegar  and  oil.  If  desired,  and  serve 
as  a  salad. 

Celery   Salad. 
Celeri   en   Salade. 

See   recipe   for  Celery  Salad. 
Celery  aux  Petit  Fota. 

Celeri   aux    Petit    Pols. 

6  Stalks  of  Celery.    1  Egg. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.    1  Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

1  Cup  of  Milk  or  Bouillon. 

Cut  the  celery  Into  pieces  and  blanch 
and  boll  for  about  thirty  minutes.    Then 


drain.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  Into 
a  saucepan,  and  add  the  flour,  blending 
without  browning.  Add  the  milk  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  it  begins 
to  boil  add  the  chopped  celery.  Let  all 
simmer  for  twenty  minutes  longer,  and 
then  take  off  the  fire  and  add  the  well- 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Season  again  to 
taste,  and  serve.  Bouillon  or  water  may 
be  substituted  for  the  milk. 

Celery    With    Beef's    Marrow 

Celeri  a  la  Moelle  de  Boeuf. 

3   Fine  Heads   of   Celery.    2  Dozen  Slices 

of  Beef's  Marrow. 

1  Pint  of  Madeira  Sauce. 

Cut  off  the  green  leaves  of  the  celery 
and  pare  nicely.  Wash  well  and  drain. 
Then  tie  each  head  near  the  end  where 
the  green  portion  has  been  taken  away. 
Put  them  Into  boiling  salted  water  and 
let  them  blanch  for  ten  minutes.  Take 
out  of  the  water  and  drain  -through  a 
colander.  Make  one  pint  of  Madeira 
Sauce  (see  recipe),  add  the  celery  to  this 
and  let  it  cook  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Then  take  the  celery,  place  on  a  dish 
and  untie.  Add  to  the  sauce  in  the  sauce- 
pan about  two  dozen  slices  of  beef  mar- 
row cut  half  an  inch  thick;  cook  for 
two  milnutes;  do  not  allow  the  marrow 
to  break,  put  in  the  dish  with  the  celery, 
pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve  hot. 
Celery  Patties. 
Pates    de    Celeri. 

The    Hearts    of    3    Heads    of    Celery.    1-2 

Cupful    of    Grated    Ham. 
1-2    Cupful    of    Cream.    1-2    Cup    of    Fine 
Bread  Crumbs. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt   and   Pepper   to   Taste. 
Boil   the  celery  hearts  till  tender,  then 
drain  and  pound  to  a  paste,  with  a  cup- 
ful each   of  grated  ham,  cream  and  fine 
bread   crumbs;    season  to  taste  with  salt 
and   pepper   and   add   a   tablespoonful  of 
butter.     Steam    the   mixture   till   it  thick- 
ens,  then    fill    small   patty    cases   with  It 
and  serve  hot. 

Celery  Fritters. 
Beignets   de  Celeri. 
3    Hearts    of    Celery.    1    Tablespoonful    of 
Butter. 
2    Ounces    of    Parmesan    Cheese. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Cut  the  celery  into  stalks  three  inches 
long,  tie   the   stalks   in  bundles,   allowing 
three  to  a  bundle:  boil  till  tender  In  salt- 
ed   water,    then    take    out:    remove    the 
strings   and   drain;    season   with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  the  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Dip    in    batter    and    fry    and    serve   as   a. 
vegetable. 

CEPS. 

Ceps. 
Ceps,  the  strongly  flavored,  flat-headed 
mushroom    preserved    in    cans    and    Im- 
ported to  this   country.    They  are  much 
affected    by    Creole    epicures.    They    are 
quite    expensive,    and    are,    therefore   not 
as   generally   used   In   household   cookery 
as  the  less  expensive  mushroom. 
Ceps  on  Toast. 
Ceps  sur   Canapes. 

S   Ceps.    The  Juice   of  1  Lemon. 
1  Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

6  Slices  of  Toast. 
Drain    the    Ceps    from    their    oil,    slice 
nicely   and   fry   lightly"  In   a   frying  pan. 


141 


When  thoroughly  heated  take  from  the 
pan,  sprinkle  lightly  with  chopped  pars- 
ley and  lemon  juice,  arrange  daintily 
on  slices  of  toast  and  send  to  the  taBle 
hot. 

Stewed  Ceps. 

Ceps  Sautees. 

3   Ceps.    1    Onion,   Minced    Fine.     1   Clove 

of  Garlic. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.    1  Tablespoon- 

ful  of  Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

1-2  Cup   of  Milk. 

Drain  the  Ceps  from  their  oil;  slice 
nicely;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
-a  saucepan,  add  the  minced  onion  and 
the  clove  of  garlic  minced  very  fine; 
moisten  with  a  half  cup  of  milk,  let  the 
mixture  simmer  gently  <or  twenty  min- 
utes, then  serve,  the  Ceps  op  slices  of 
toast  with  the  sauce  poured  around. 

Broiled    Ceps    on    Toast. 

Ceps  Grilles  sur  Canapes. 

3  Ceps.     1-2  Pint  of  Sauce  a  la  Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

Grated  Bread  Crumbs.    Sliced  Lemon  and 

Chopped   Parsley   to    Garnish. 

Drain  the  Ceps  from  their  oil;  season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper;  roll  in  fresh 
bread  crumbs  finely  grated,  broil  nicely 
on  double  broiler,  arrange  nicely  on 
toast.  Pour  over  each  slice  some  of  the 
Sa^uce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel,  garnish  nicely 
with  sliced  lemon  and  serve  hot. 

CHERVIIi. 

Cerfeuil. 

Chervil  is  an  aromatic  plant,  resem- 
bling parsley,  and  much  used  for  season- 
ings, especially  in  oyster  soux>s.  It  is 
also  considered  a  delightful  salad  herb, 
and  is  often  cut  and  mixed  between  let- 
tuce, and  served  as  a_salad.  It  is  found 
in  small  quantities,  chopped,  in  nearly 
all  salads  prepared  to  suit  the  taste  of 
epicures.  It  is  a  plant  little  known  in 
the  North,  but  in  this  section  there  Is 
scarcely  a  garden  where  it  is  not  found. 
It  is  especially  used  by  the  Creoles  as  a 
flavoring  for  breakfast  salads,  a  few 
leaves  imparting  a  delightful  flavor. 

CHESTNUTS 

Marrons. 

Chestnuts  are  much  used  by  the  Cre- 
oles in  stuffing  for  poultry  and  game. 
They  are  also  stewed,  'boiled  or  made 
into  purees.  (S'ee  recipe  Pure  de  Mar- 
rons.) 

Stewed    Chestnnts. 

Marrons    Sautees. 

1  Pint  of  Chestnuts.    1  Pint  of  Milk. 

1    Tablespoonful    Flour.    1    Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Shell  the  chestnuts,  and  then  throw 
them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water 
for  twenty  minutes.  Take  them  out,  and 
remove  the  dark  outer  skin.  Removo  the 
boiling  water  in  the  saucepan,  and  add 
the  chestnuts  and  let  them  cook  for 
twenty  minutes  more,  or  until  they  may 
be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork.  Then  take 
them  out  and  drain,  and  put  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter  In  a  saucepan.  Add 
the  flour.  Blend  gradually,  without 
browning.  Add  the  pint  of  milk  and 
then  add  the  chestnuts,  and  let  all  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  S'eason  to 
taste. 


Chestnnts    With    Brown     Sauce. 

Marrons    Sautes    a    la    Sauce    Espagnole. 

1  Pint  of  Chestnuts.     1  Pint  of  Brown 
Sauce. 

The  chestnuts  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  manner  as  Stewed  Chestnuts,  as 
far  as  boiling.  Then  make  a  Brown 
Sauce  (see  Sauce  Bspagnole),  add  the 
chestnuts  to  it,  saute  for  fifteen  minutes 
longer,  letting  all  simmer  gently,  and 
serve    hot. 

Boiled   Chestnuts. 

Marrons    Bouillis    a.   la    Sauce    Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

1   Pint   of   Chestnuts.    1   Pint   of  Sauce   a 

la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Prepare  and  boil  the  chestnuts  accord- 
ing to  above  directions.  When  done 
drain  and  press  throug  a  colander.  The 
chestnuts  must  be  cooked  very  soft  for 
this  dish.  Add  a  Drawn  Butter  Sauce, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  or  a 
Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel,  and  serve  as 
an  entree,  like  mashed  potatoes. 

CHIVES 

Clves. 

Chives  are  small  bulbous  plants  of  the 
onion  tribe.  The  leaves  are  long  and 
slender  and  impart  a  very  pleasant  flavor 
to  soups,  salads,  etc.  Chives  are  espe- 
cially used  in  seasoning  stews  of  rabbits 
and  hare,  hence  the  name  "Civet,"  ap- 
plied to  these  stews  in  particular,  on  ac- 
count of  the  high  seasoning. 
COI.I.ABDS. 

This  is  a  variety  of  cabbage  which  does 
not  head,  but  the  leaves  are  cooked  and 
served  in  the  same  manner  as  other  cab- 
bage. But  they  are  served,  principally, 
as  "greens."  boiled  with  a  piece  of  salt 
meat. 

COBN. 
Du   Mais. 

Corn  in  various  ways  is  served  on  the 
Creole  tables.  The  first  young  corn  in 
the  market  is  highly  prized,  but  in  a  few 
days  there  is  such  an  over-abundance 
that  it  can  be  had  all  summer  and  late 
in  the  fall  at  prices  within  the  reach  of 
all  There  is  not  a  healthier  or  more  nu- 
tritious vegetable.  The  following  are 
some  of  the  dainty  ways  of  preparing 
this  delightful  dish: 

Corn   on  the   Cob. 
Bpis  de  Mais  Bouillis. 

6  Bars  of  Corn.  2  Quarts  of  Boiline 
Water. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt. 
Only  young  and  tender  corn  should 
be  boiled.  Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling 
water.  Remove  the  green  outside  husks 
and  the  silk,  as  far  as  possible.  Put  the 
corn  into  the  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  boil  rapidly  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes,  if  the  ears  are  large.  More  than 
this  will  cause  the  corn  to  lose  its  sweet- 
ness. Serve  immediately  after  removing 
again  all  the  sillc,  which  easily  comes 
to  the  surface  in  boiling.  Heap  the  corn 
on  a  platter,  and  serve  to  each  person 
an  ear,  with  a  small  butter  plate  of  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt. 

Oreen    Corn,    Planters'    Style. 
Mais  Tendre  a  I'Habltant. 

6  Bars  of  Corn. 

2  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water. 

1   Tablespoonful   of   S'alt. 


142 


Husk  the  corn  and  pull  off  the  silk, 
leaving  one  layer  of  leaves  clo^e  to  the 
kernels;  put  to  cook  in  cold  water.  When 
the  water  begins  to  boil,  after  ten  min- 
utes, add  the  salt,  but  do  not  let  the  corn 
boil  longer  than  five  minutes  after  add- 
ing the  salt,  as  boiling  longer  will  harden 
it.  Corn  cooked  in  this  manner  pre- 
serves its  sweetness  and  is  most  palata- 
ble and  tender. 

Boasted    Com. 

Mais  Rotis. 

Place  the  ears  of  corn  which  have  not 
been  removed  from  the  husks  In  a  hot 
oven,  or,  better  still,  if  you  can,  In  hot 
ashes,  and  let  them  roast  for  a  half  hour 
or  more,  until  tender.  Then  take  out  of 
the  oven  or  hot  ashes  and  remove  the 
husks  and  silk  and  serve  In  the  same 
manner  as  boiled  corn. 

Creamed    Corn. 

Mais  a  la  Creme. 

8    Fine    Ears    of    Corn.     1    Pint    of    Milk 

Cream 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1-4  Spoonful  of  Black  Pepper. 

1   Dessertspoonful  Butter. 

Score  the  corn  down  the  center  of  each 
row  of  grains,  and  then  cut  from  the  cob. 
With  the  knife  press  out  all  the  pulp 
from  the  cob,  leaving  the  hull  on  the 
cob.  S'et  a  porcelain  or  agate  saucepan 
on  the  fire,  and  put  into  this  the  corn 
cobs,  which  you  will  have  cut  into  pieces. 
Cover  with  water,  and  let  them  boll 
until  you  have  extracted  all  the  juices. 
When  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  about  one 
pint,  add  the  corn,  and  let  it  boil  for 
about  twenty  minutes.  Then  stir  in  a 
quartei  of  a  pint  of  milk,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  butter,  and  serve  hot.  Or,  if  you 
can  afford  it,  boil  the  corn  in  the  milk, 
using  at  least  one  pint,  having  first 
added  a  half  cup  of  water  in  which 
the  corn  cobs  were  boiled.  Ijet  all  sim- 
mer gently  for  about  a  half  hour,  and 
then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  serve.  Some  like 
the  addition  of  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
but  this  is  a  matter  of  taste. 

Corn     Sauted    With    Butter. 

Mais    Tendrp    Saute    au    Beurre. 

8   Fine   Ears   of  Corn. 
1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 
1   Cup   of  Milk  or  Water. 

Boil  the  corn,  and  then  cut  the  grains 
from  the  cob  with  a  sharp  knife.  Put  in 
a  saucepan  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  add  the  milk,  and  season  nicely 
to  taste.  Let  the  corn  boil  for  about  ten 
minutes  and  serve  hot. 

Oorn  Pudding, 

Poudlng  de  Mais. 

1   D07en    Bars   of  Tender   Corn.    1    Quart 

Milk. 

4   Eggs.    2   Tablespoonfuls   of   Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  White  Sugar. 

iScore  the  corn  down  each  row  of  irrains, 
and  grate  it  from  the  cob.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  egg  and  the  yolks  sep- 
arately. After  beating  the  yolks,  add 
them  to  the  sugar  and  butter,  which  you 
will  have  rubbed  well  together.  Beat  all 
this  very  light,  and  then  add  the  milk 
and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Blend 
well,  and  add  the  grated  corn.  Beat 
again,  and  blend  thoroughly,  and  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.    Stir   In   well,   and   set   the  mixture 


in  the  oven  with  a  piece  of  brown  paper 
on  top.  Bake  slowly  for  about  an  hour, 
and  f.erve  hot.  Corn  thus  prepared  la 
delicious;  it  is  served  with  daube  or 
roast    filet   of   beef.   etc. 

Baked  Corn  a  la  Creme. 

Mais  Roti  a  la  Creme. 

1  Dozen   Large  Ears  of  Toung  Corn. 

1  Pint   of   Milk.    4  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Black  Pepper. 

1    Dessertspoonful    of   Butter. 

Score  the  ears  of  corn  down  each  row 
with  a  knife,  and  then  cut  from  the  cob. 
With  the  knife  press  out  all  the  pulp 
and  corn  juice,  leaving  the  hulls  In  the 
cob.  Beat  the  yollcs  of  the  eggs  well, 
and  then  add  the  corn.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  melted  but- 
ter, and  then  add  the  whites  o^  the  eggB 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  in  carefully 
and  place  the  whole  in  a  dish,  which  you 
will  have  buttered.  Set  in  the  oven  and 
bake  for  an  hour,  slowly  at  first,  more 
rapidly  towards  the  end  of  the  last  fif- 
teen minutes.  Serve  with  roast  beef,  veal 
or  lamb. 

Fried    Corn. 

Mais    Frit. 

1  Dozen   Ears  Toung,  Tender  Corn. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

1  Minced  Onion. 

Score  the  corn  along  each  row,  and 
then  cut  from  the  cob  with  a  knife.  Press 
out  all  the  pulp  and  corn  juice  from  the 
cob.  Mix  all  and  season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Mince  the  onion  fine,  and 
blend  with  the  lard,  which  you  will  have 
put  into  the  frying  pan.  Add  the  corn 
when  the  onions  begin  to  brown  slightly, 
and  keep  stirring  and  stirring  till  the 
grain  is  cooked,  which  will  be  in  about 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  This  is  a 
very  nice  breakfast  dish  or  dinner  en- 
tree. 

Corn    Soup. 

Puree    de    Mais. 
This    is    a    delightful    summer    soup    in 
New    Orleans.     (See    recipe    Creole    Sum- 
mer Soup.) 

Com  Fritters. 

Beignets  de   Mais. 

6  Ears  of  Corn.    1-4  Pint  of  Milk.    1  Egg. 

1-2    Cup    of    Flour.    1    Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Grate  the  corn.  Then  beat  the  egg 
well,  whites  and  yolks  together,  and  by 
degrees  add  the  corn,  beating  in  thor- 
oughly and  very  hard.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful of  melted  butter,  and  then  stir 
in  the  milk.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  or  just  sufficient  to  thicken  and 
bind,  and  then  fry  like  fritters,  In  boil- 
ing lard,  dropping  in  a  deep  spoonful  at 
a   time.     Serve   hot. 

Corn    Cakes. 

Gateaux   de   Mais. 

6  Ears  of  Corn.    1-2  Pint  of  Milk. 
1  Egg.    1-2  Cup  of  Flour:    1  Tablespoon- 
ful   of   Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Prepare  the  batter  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  above,  and  bake  on  a  griddle 
like  batter  cakes,  and  serve  hot,  with 
generous  layers  of  butter  between.  These 
cakes  are  delicious. 


143 


Corn    and    Tomatoes. 

Mais    Sautes    aux    Tomates. 

1  Pint   of  Corn,   Cut  from  the   Cob. 

1    Pint    of    Fresh    Tomatoes,    Peeled    and 

Chopped. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste. 

Sprigs  Each  of  Thyme,  i-arsley  and  Bay 

Leaf. 

Place  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and 
when  It  heats  well  without  browning  add 
the  tomatoes.  Let  them  simmer  for  about 
five  minutes,  stirring  well,  and  then  add 
the  minced  herbs.  Let  these  stew  for 
three  minutes,  and  add  the  corn,  which 
has  been  scored  and  cut  from  the  cob. 
Mix  all  thoroughly.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  or 
less,  according  to  taste.  Let  all  stew  or 
saute  for  about  twenty  minutes,  and  then 
stir  in  a  teaspoonful  more  of  butter. 
Serve  hot,  after  cooking  ten  minutes 
longer. 

Corn    Salad. 

Mache    ou    Doucette. 

This  Is  a  delicious  variety  of  corn,  and 
is  much  used  for  salads  during  the  win- 
ter and  early  spring  months  in  New  Or- 
leans. The  Corn  Salad,  for  that  is  the 
name  given  to  the  vegetable,  is  boiled 
and  then  served  "a  la  Vinaigrette,"  that 
Is,  with  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  or  with 
a  plain  French  Dressing;  or  with  beets, 
sliced.  Still  again,  it  is  served  with  hard- 
boiled  eges.     (See  recipe.) 

CBESS. 

Cresson. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  popular  Creole . 
winter  and  spring  salad  plants,  and  Is 
also  considered  a  great  appetizer,  being 
served  as  an  hors  d'oeuvre,  and  eaten 
simply  with  salt.  As  a  salad  it  Is  most 
cooling,  refreshing  and  healthy.  We  have 
two  varieties,  the  broad-leaved  winter 
"Curled  or  Pepper  Grass,"  and  the 
"Watercress."  The  latter  can  only  be 
planted  by  the  side  of  running  water,  or 
near  springs.  It  is  delicious.  It  Is  found 
all  through  the  Louisiana  forests,  along 
the  streams  especially  In  the  vicinity  of 
Abita   Springs   and   Covington. 

CtrCTTMBEB. 

Concombre. 

The  Creoles  hold,  and  justly,  that  the 
only  proper  way  to  eat  a  cucumber  Is 
"en  salade."  No  fashionable  method  of 
cooking  this  vegetable  can  ever  make 
up  for  the  delicate  flavor  that  has  been 
destroyed  by  submitting  it  to  heat. 

Cucumbers  are  best  when  freshly 
picked  from  the  vine.  When  they  are 
thrown  around  the  market  for  a  num- 
ber of  days  and  become  whited  they 
are  not  fit  for  table  use.  Cucumbers  are 
extensively  used  by  the  Creoles  for  salad 
and  pickling  purposes.  For  salad  prep- 
arations see  special  recipe  under  chapter 
on  Salads.  The  word  "Gherkin"  is  ap- 
plied to  all  kinds  of  pickled  cucumbers; 
properly,  however,  the  term  should  be 
applied  to  the  small  prickly  variety.  Cu- 
cumbers, besides  being  served  as  salads 
and  pickles,  are  used  as  relishes  and  as 
a  garnish. 

encumbers    as    a    Relish. 

Concombres    Comme    Hors    d'Oeuvres. 

4     Fine     Cucumbers.     A     French      Salad 

Dressing. 

Wash  the  cucumbers,  cut  off  the  bitter 
end,    and    pare    the    skin    to    a    sufficient 


depth  to  remove  the  green  portion.  Then 
score  them  lengthwise  with  a  table  fork. 
Put  them  into  a  salad  earthen  bowl  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Set  in  an  Ice  box 
for  three  hours;  then  cut  into  delicate 
slices  and  serve  with  a  French  Salad 
Dressing,  the  dressing  being  served  in 
a  separate  dish.  In  preparing  cucum- 
bers to  serve  as  a  relish  with  fish  this  Is 
the   proper  mode   of  preparation. 

encumbers  as  a  Garnish. 

Concombres    Comme     Garniture. 

3  Fine  Cucumbers. 

1     Tablespoonful     of     Vinegar.     1     Large 

Onion. 

Peel  and  slice  three  fine  cucumbers, 
and  then  make  a  marinade  of  one  lea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  black  pepper  and 
a  tablesl>oonful  of  vinegar.  Add  one 
fmely-sliced  onion.  Let  the  cucumbers 
marmate  In  this  for  an  hour,  and  then 
dram  and  use  as  a  garnish  for  cold 
meats,    especially    cold    Boullll. 

CUBBY. 

Karl. 

Curry  is  a  condiment  composed  of  pul- 
verized Cayenne  pepper,  coriander  seed, 
tumeric,  onions,  garlic,  ginger  root,  cloves 
cinnamon,  cardamon  and  salt,  all  pul- 
verized together  and  thoroughly  mixed 
It  IS  extensively  used  in  the  making  of 
stews  of  fish  meats  and  some  vege- 
tables. 

DANBBIiIOM. 

Dent-de-Llon. 

The  Creoles  long  ago  discovered  the 
possibilities  of  the  dandelion  under  cul- 
tivation. The  wild  dandelion,  as  all 
know.  Is  a  common  and  hardy  perennial 
plant.  It  is  found  in  luxuriance  in  the 
Louisiana  meadows  and  pastures,  the 
deeply-notched  leaves  closely  resembling 
chicoree,  so  extensively  used  as  a  salad 
and  as  a  green.  Through  cultivation  the 
dandelion  Is  now  numbered  among  the 
best  of  the  early  spring  salads.  (For 
recipe  for  Dandelion  Salad,  see  chapter 
on    Salads.) 

Dandelion  Greens. 

Dent-de-Lion    Bouilli. 

1  Quart  of  Dandelion  Greens. 

A    Ham    Shank. 

1    Tablespoonful     of    Butter.      Salt     and 

Pepper  to  Taste. 

Cut  off  the  coarse  roots;  wash  the 
leaves  thoroughly;  steep  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter for  five  hours  to  remove  the  bitter- 
ness. Boll  a  ham  shank  for  two  hours, 
throw  In  the  dandelions,  and  cook  gently 
for  forty-five  minutes;  then  drain,  chop 
fine;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Mince  the  ham  very  fine  and  sprinkle 
over  the  greens;  spread  over  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  serve  hot. 

EGGPLANTS. 

Des    Aubergines. 

This  is  one  of  our  most  esteemed  and 
useful  vegetables,  and  is  served  in  the 
following   delightful   ways: 

Staffed  Egrerplant. 

Aubergines  Farcies. 

6  Eggplants  of  Good  Size. 

1 1-2   Cups   of  Bread,    Wet  and   Squeezed. 

1     Tomato.      1     Onion.      1     Clove     of 

Garlic. 

Thyme,  Parsley,  Bay  Leaf. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 


144 


Cut  the  eggplant .  in  the  middle,  and 
put  to  boil  in  cold  water  for  about  half 
an  hour,  or  until  tender.  Then  take  out 
of  the  water  and  set  to  cool.  "Wlien 
quite  cool  take  out  the  seeds  and  throw 
away.  Then  scoop  out  carefully  the  soft 
meat  of  the  eggplant,  and  leave  the  skins 
unbroken.  Set  these  skins  carefully  aside. 
Chop  the  soft  eggplant  fine,  and  then 
wet  and  squeeze  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
bread.  Chop  the  onion  and  tomato  fine, 
and  mince  the  herbs  and  garlic  very  fine. 
Season  the  eggplant  well  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  the  butter  in  the  frying 
pan  (use  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  if  you 
have  not  the  butter),  and  brown  the 
onion  in  it  slightly.  Then  add  the 
chopped  tomato  and  its  juice,  and  let  this 
fry  for  four  or  five  minutes.  Then  add 
the  minced  herbs  and  the  clove  of  garlic, 
and  almost  immediately  the  chopped  egg- 
plant. Then  add  the  bread  at  once,  and 
mix  all  well.  Season  again  to  taste,  and 
let  all  fry  for  about  five  minutes.  Take 
off  and  fill  the  shells  with  the  stuffing, 
sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  bread 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  to  a  nice  brown. 

Fried    Eggplant. 

Aubergines   Frites. 

2   Young   Eggplants.    2   Eggs. 

Flour    to    Make    a    Light    Batter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lard. 

Slice  the  eggplants  very  thin,  paring 
them  If  large,  and  leaving  the  skin  on 
if  very  young  and  tender.  Make  a  light 
batter  with  the  eggs  and  flour.  Season 
the  eggplant  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Soak  the  slices  in  the  batter.  Lift  out 
and  fry  in  the  boiling  lard.  When  done 
on  one  side,  turn  on  the  other  with  a 
cake  turner.  Remove  the  eggplants.  Drain 
them  on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of 
the  oven,  and  serve  hot  on  a  flat  and 
open  dish  or  platter. 

Eggplant    Fritters. 

Aubergines    en    Beignets    ou    au    Naturel. 

2  Young  Eggplants.    1-2  Pint  of  Milk. 

Salt  and   Pepper.     Flour. 

Slice  the  eggplants  nicely  and  thin. 
Roll  them  in  milk  in  which  you  have  put 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pass  the  egg- 
plant in  flour,  dusting  lightly,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard.  The  eggplant  must  float 
In  the  lard.  Drain  on  brown  paper  in 
the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  serve  hot. 

Stewed   Eggplant. 

Aubergines   a   la   Creole. 

3  Eggplants.    1-2  Can  of  Tomatoes. 

1    Square    Inch    of   Ham. 

2  Cloves  of  Garlic.    2  Onions. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Butter.     Salt  and 

Pepper  to   Taste. 

Parboil  the  eggplant  for  about  thirty 
minutes.  Take  out  of  the  boiling  water 
and  let  cool  slightly.  Then  skin  and  out 
into  pieces  half  an  inch  square.  Chop 
■  two  onions  very  fine.  Take  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  and  brown  the  onion 
in  it.  As  it  browns  add  half  a  can  of  to- 
matoes, or  six  fresh,  chopped  fine.  Add 
the  square  Inch  of  ham,  chopped  very 
fine.  Add  then  two  cloves  of  garlic, 
minced  very  fine,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  this  simmer 
for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  then  add 
the  eggplant  sufficient  to  make  a  pound. 
Let  all  cook,  smothering  slowly  and  well, 
keeping  tightly  covered,  and  stirring 
often  to  prevent  burning.  Season  again 
to  taste.  After  it  has  oboked  tor  half  an 
hour  serve  very  hot. 


ENDIVES. 

De   la    Chicoree. 

Endive,  or  Chicoree,  is  served  both  as 
a  salad  plant  and  as  a  vegetable.  It  is 
very  popular  among  the  Creoles,  and  is 
much  cultivated  for  the  market,  espe- 
cially for  summer  use.  Chicoree  as  a 
salad  is  served  in  exactly  the  same  man- 
ner as  Lettuce  Salad.  (See  recipe  under 
chapter  on   Salads.) 

Endive    With    Cream    Saace. 

Chicoree,   Sauce   a   la   Creme. 

3  Heads    of    Chicoree.     4    Tablespoonfuls 

Butter. 

2  Glasses  of  Cream  or  Milk. 

A  Pinch  of  Nutmeg.  ,  Salt  and  Pepper  to 

Taste. 

Pick  nicely  three  heads  of  Chicoree 
casting  away  all  the  outer  green  leaves! 
Then  wash  the  heads  carefully  in  fresh 
cold  water;  drain  and  wash  again,  and 
blanch  for  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water;  remove  and  throw  into  cold  water 
to  cool.  Then  drain  off  411  the  water, 
and  chop  the  Chicoree  very  fine.  Put  in 
a  saucepan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  let  cook  Jor  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Pour  two  glassfuls  of  milk  or  rich 
cream  over  it;  add  a  pinch  of  grated  nut- 
meg, and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix 
all  thoroughly  together  for  five  minutes 
on  the  stove;  then  remove,  put  in  a  dish, 
garnish  nicely  with  Croutons  fried  in 
butter,   and   serve   hot. 

Endives   With   Gravy. 
Chicoree  au  Jus. 

4  Heads  of  Chicoree.    1  Onion.    1  Carrot. 

1   Herb   Bouquet. 

1-4  Pound  of  Bacon.    Salt  and  Pepper  to 

Taste. 

1  Pint  of  Veal  or  Chicken  Consomme. 

Clean  and  pick  the  Chicoree  well,  pare 
off  all  the  outer  leaves,  and  wash  the 
heads  well  in  several  waters.  Then  drain 
and  put  to  blanch  in  salted  water  for 
ten  minutes.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
throw  them  in  the  cold  water  to  cool; 
drain  and  cut  into  quarters.  Pnt  the 
piece  of  bacon  in  the  bottom  of  a  sau- 
toire  or  stewpan,  and  add  an  onion  and 
carrot  and  herb  bouquet,  minced  very 
fine.  Lay  the  Chicoree  on  top  of  this, 
season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per, and  cover  with  a  buttered  paper. 
Then  set  the  sautoire  in  the  oven,  and 
let  the  Chicoree  cook  for  ten  minutes, 
when  it  will  be  a  golden  brown.  Moisten 
with  half  a  pint  of  veal  or  chicken  con- 
somme, cover  and  again  set  in  the  oven 
for  thirty  minutes.  At  this  point  it  will 
be  ready  to  serve.  Arrange  the  Chicoree 
on  a  hot  dish;  strain  the  sauce,  pour 
over  and  serve. 

GARLIC. 

De   I'Ail. 

Garlic  is  a  great  Creole  vegetable,  a 
bulbous-rooted  plant,  with  a  strong  pene- 
trating odor,  and  highly  esteemed  as  a 
flavoring  for  soups,  stews,  roasts  and 
various  other  dishes.  Garlic  is  a  staple 
product  of  the  lower  Louisiana  parishes, 
and  is  raised  for  home  consumption  and 
tor  shipping.  More  garlic  is  grown  and 
used  in  Louisiana  than  in  all  the  other 
states  together.  It  is  cultivated  like  the 
onion.  In  the  spring  the  bulbs  are  taken 
up  and  plaited  together  in  long  strings. 
One  of  these  strings  contains  from  fifty 
to  sixty  heads  in  double  I'ows.  They  are 
then    hung   up    In    a    drv,    airy   place,   or 


145 


stored  away.  They  will  keep  from  six 
to  eight  months.  Great  strings  of  garlic 
adorn  the  stalls  of  the  French  Market 
daily. 

HORSERADISH. 

Raifort. 

The  roots  ot  the  horseradish  are  ex- 
tensively used  as  an  appetizer  on  Creole 
tables.  They  are  an  agreeable  relish, 
with  a  fine,  sharp,  pungent  taste. 
Scraped  and  grated  very  fine,  and  set 
on  the  table  in  small  cups,  they  are 
used  as  a  condiment.  In  cookery  the 
horseradish  is  used  in  the  preparation 
of  sauces  and  salads. 

KOHIiRABI,   OR   TURNIP-ROOTED 
CABBAGE. 

Chou-Navet. 
This  vegetable  is  used  in  making  soup 
purees  or  vegetable  purees,  and  is  also 
prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  cauli- 
flower. (See  recipes  Purees  and  also 
Cauliflower.)  The  finest  variety,  the 
"Early  White  Vienna,"  is  the  only  va- 
riety planted  and  sold  in  New  Orleans. 
It  is  an  excellent  table  vegetable,  very 
popular  among  the  Italian  and  other 
European  population  of  the  city  espe- 
cially,   and    very    largely    cultivated. 

I/EEKS. 

"Poireau. 
This   popular  vegetable   is   a   species   of 
onion,     highly     esteemed     for     flavoring 
soups,    etc.     It    is    used    altogether    as    a 
seasoning. 

LBNTIIS. 

Des    Lentilles. 

Lentils  are  among  the  most  nutritious 
of  all  vegetables.  They  may  be  made 
into  a  puree  (see  recipe  under  chapter 
on  Soups),  or  may  be  cooked  In  every 
manner  in  which  red  and  white  beans 
are  cooked.  On  Fridays  and  fast  days 
they  are  simply  boiled  over  a  slow 
fire,  with  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  a  bouquet  of  parsley,  and  an  onion 
cut  in  quarters.  Again,  the  Creoles  boil 
Lentils  with  sausage,  or  Chaurice.  Still 
again,  they  are  simply  boiled  in  salt  and 
water,  and  served  with  a  Sauce  a  la 
Vinaigrette,  Sauce  Soubise,  or  a  Sauce 
a  la  .Maitre   d'Hotel.     (See   redipes.) 

MUSHROOMS. 

Des   Champignons. 

Mushrooms  constitute  one  of  the  great- 
est flavoring  vegetables  known  to  the 
scientific  cuisinier.  They  are  used  in  all 
manner  of  sauces,  and  when  veal,  game 
or  fish  are  cooked  "en  braise,"  or  "en 
saute."  They  are  used  in  "matelotes," 
and  in  nearly  all  forms  of  farcies.  The 
Creoles,  like  the  French,  think  it  a  crime 
to  cook  this  vegetable  in  any  form  that 
would  destroy  its  own  peculiar  flavor,  or 
that  which  it  is  capable  of  imparting  to 
the  most   ordinary   dish. 

Stewed  Mushrooms   on  Toast. 

■  Champignons   Sautes  sur  Canapes. 

1  Pint  of  Mushrooms. 

i  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.     The  Juice  of 

1   Lemon. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 

6  Slices   of  Toast. 

Drain  the  mushrooms  of  their  liquor, 
and  place  in  a  stewpan  with  the  butter; 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper; 
cover  and  let  them  coolc  for  ten  minutes, 
tossing  almost  constantly.    Add  the  Juice 


of  a  lemon  and  the  chopped  parsley. 
Place  six  slices  of  toast  on  a  3ish,  gar- 
nish these  nicely  with  the  mushrooms 
and  serve.  The  toast  may  be  omitted  if 
it  is  desired  simply  to  stew  the  mush- 
rooms and  serve  as  a  vegetable. 

Mushrooms    With    Cream. 

Champignons  Sautes  a  la  Creme. 

1    Pint    Mushrooms.     1    Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Cream. 

The    Yolk    of    1    Egg.    1     Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Put  the  mushrooms  with  their  juice 
into  a  saucepan,  porcelain-lined  or  agate. 
Let  them  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Ihen  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Wended  well  with  the  same  amount  of 
tlour,  and  mixed  thoroughly  with  the 
cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Stir  well.  Bring  it  to  a  good  boil,  and 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the 
y°|f  °i  an  egg,  which  has  been  beaten 
with  Sherry  wine.  Serve  immediately  in 
a  very  hot  dish   or  bowl. 

To  stew  canned  mushrooms,  drain 
them  of  their  liquor.  Melt  the  butter  In 
a  porcelain-lined  saucepan,  and  grad- 
ually add  the  flour,  without  letting  it 
burn.  Blend  smoothly.  Add  the  boiling 
milk,  and  let  it  boil  for  about  two  min- 
utes. Then  add  the  mushrooms,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Remove  ffom  the  fire 
atter  five  minutes.  Serve  on  buttered 
toast  or  Croutons  fried  in  butter.  Again, 
the  milk  may  be  omitted,  and  the  mush- 
rooms stewed  in  their  own  liquor. 

Stewed  Mnshrooms,   Spanish    Style. 

Champignons    Sautes    a    I'Espagnole. 
1   Pint   or   1  Can    of   Mushrooms. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Olive  Oil 
1   Tablespoonful   of   Chopped   Parsley. 
1  Clove  of  Garlic. 
I  Teaspoonful  of  Chives.    1  Dozen  Whole 
Peppers. 
Salt  and   Black  Pepper  to   Taste. 
Drain    the  mushrooms    of   their   liquor; 
cut    them    in    lozenge-shaped    pieces,    and 
put  them  in  a  dish   and  sprinkle  with  a 
tablespoonful    of   olive    oil,    and   salt   and 
pepper  to  taste.  Let  the  mushrooms  soak 
in  this  marinade   for  two   hours.     At  the 
end   of  this  time  take  them  out  and  put 
in  a  saucepan  and  let  them  stew  for  ten 
minutes.     Make   a    sauce    of    three    table- 
spoonfuls   of  olive   oil,  the  clove  of  gar- 
lic, minced  very  fine,   a  tablespoonful  of 
minced  chives,  and  blend  well.    Add  this 
to  the  mushrooms  and  let  them  saute  for 
five  minutes  longer  on  a  very  slow  fire, 
without  boiling,   and   serve  hot. 

Fried   Mashrooms. 

Champignons  a.  la  Bordelaise. 

1    Pint    Mushrooms.     1    Table.spoonful 

Olive   Oil. 

6  Shallots,  Minced  Very  Fine. 

Thyme,    Parsley    and    Bay    Leaf.    Minced 

Fine. 

1    Clove    of   Garlic,    Minced    Fine. 

S'alt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Put  the  oil  into  a  frying  pan,  and, 
when  heated,  add  the  shallots,  minced 
very  fine.  Let  these  bt-own  slightly,  and 
add  the  minced  garlic  and  fine  herbs. 
Let  these  brown  for  three  minutes  or  so, 
and  then  add  the  mushrooms.  Stir  well 
and  fry  for  about  five  minutes.  Add  one 
tablespoonful  of  White  vpine  or  Sherry, 
and  serve  the  mushrooms  on  slices  of 
French  toast. 


146 


MUSTARD. 

De   la   Moutarde. 

Mustard  Is  grown  extensively  in  Lou- 
isiana, especially  the  large-leaved  or 
curled,  which  has  grcwn  to  a  distinct 
Louisiana  variety,  quite  different  from 
the  European.  The  seed  is  black,  and  is 
raised  in  Louisiana,  and  the  plant  is  be- 
ing more  extensively  cultivated  every 
year.  The  large  leaves  are  cooked  the 
same  as  Spinach  (see  recipe),  or  they 
may  be  boiled  with  salt  meat  and  served 
as   greens. 

Our  Creole  mustard  seeds  are  famous, 
not  only  in  making  sauces,  but  for 
medicinal  purposes. 

OKBA. 
Du  Fevi. 

Okra  is  a  great  summer  dish  with  the 
Creoles.  It  may  be  made  into  Gumbo 
(see  recipe  Okra  Gumbos),  or  boiled  and 
served  en  salade. 

Boiled    Okra. 

Fevi  Bouilli. 

1    Quart    Young    Okra.     1    Tablespoonful 

Vinegar. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  the  okra  well  in  cold  water,  and 
put  in  a  porcelain-lined  or  agate  sauce- 
pan. Add  a  pint  of  water  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Cover  the  pot,  and  let 
the  okra  simmer  for  about  half  an  hour. 
Take  from  the  pot,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  pour  over  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  Tarragon  vinegar  and  set  to  cool. 
Serve  as  a  salad,  and  with  all  meats, 
such  as  daube,  roast,  etc. 

Stewed    Okra,    Creole    Style. 

Fevi    Saute   a,    la    Creole. 

4  Dozen    Okras.     1  Tablespoonful  Butter. 

3   Nice   Potatoes. 

1    Onion.     1    Green    Pepper.    1    Clove    of 

Garlic. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

Wash  the  okras  and  pare  the  ends. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter;  add  a  finely-minced  onion 
and  clove  of  garlic  and  green  pepper. 
Let  all  cook  for  six  or  eight  minutes,  and 
then  add  the  three  tomatoes,  chopped 
fine;  also  add  the  juice  df  the  tomatoes. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepiwr;  add 
a  dash  of  Cayeiine  and  i%  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley.  Now  add  the  okras, 
and  let  all  simmer  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes.  Place  in  a  hot,  deep  serving 
dish,  and  cover  and  send  to  the  table. 

ONIONS. 

De  rOgnon. 

Onions  have  always  been  conceded  by 
the  Creoles,  as  also  by  all  scientists, 
among  the  healthiest  of  food  substances. 
The  onion  is  indispensable  in  the  kitchen. 
It  is  used  in  almost  every  kind  of  meat 
and  fish  or  vegetable  seasoning,  and  im- 
parts a  flavor  that  cannot  be  claimed  by 
any  other  vegetable.  Onions  are  also 
acknowledged  as  a  great  sedative.  The 
onion  juice,  mixed  with  sugar,  is  largely 
used  by  the  old  Creoles  in  coughs  and 
colds,  and  is  almost  an  Infallible  rem- 
edy. The  onion  is  used  as  a  salad,  or  It 
may  be  cooked  in  some  very  delightful 
ways.  There  are  those  who,  being  over- 
fastidious,  object  to  eating  onions  on  ac- 
count of  the  perceptible  odor  that  clings 
to  the  breath,  especially  in  eating  the 
raw  onion  In  salad.  This  should  never 
Interfere  in  the  consumption  of  a  vegeta- 
ble that  carries  within  it  such  important 


chemical  juices  that  operate  so'  largely 
in  the  upbuilding  of  the  general  system. 
A  glass  of  milk,  taken  after  eating  a  raw 
onion,  will  destroy  every  particle  of  odor 
or  taste  that  remains  in  the  mouth. 

Boiled    Onions. 

Ognons    Bouillis. 

1  Dozen  Nice,  Small  White  Onions. 

1    Tablespoonful    Butter. 

Salt  and   Pepper  to   Taste. 

Throw  the  oniQns  in  their  skins  into 
cold  water,  and  peel  them.  Then  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water. 
Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  let  them 
boil  about  forty  minutes,  or  until  you 
can  pierce  them  easily  with  a  fork.  Then 
put  into  a  dish,  and  drain  off  all  water. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  pour  over  a  Drawn  Butter  Sauce 
(see  Beurre  a  la  Maitre  d"Hotel),  and 
serve  hot.  The  large  Spanish  onions  will 
require  about  an  hour  longer  to  boil  ten- 
der. 

Creamed    Onions. 

Ognons   a    la    Creme. 

1  Dozen  Small,  White  Onions. 

1    Tablespoonful    Butter.    1    Tableaspoon- 

ful  Flour. 

1-2  Pint  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

Salt   and   Pepper  to   Taste. 

Boil  the  onions  as  directed  in  the  above 
recipe.  When  very  tender,  take  off  the 
fire  and  drain.  Pour  over  them  the  fol- 
lowing cream  sauce,  which  you  will  have 
prepared  when  almost  ready  to  serve: 
Put  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a 
saucepan,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Set  on  the  fire,  an'd  let  all  blend 
well  together,  rubbing  very  smooth,  with- 
out browning.  Then  add  half  a  pint  of 
milk.  Stir  continually  till  it  bolls.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
pour  over  the  onions,  and  serve  hot.  The 
young  Creole  onions  are  most  delicious 
when  prepared  in  this  manner. 

Fried  Onions. 

Ognons    Frits. 

1-2  Dozen  Nice,  Tender  Onions. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter.    1  Tablespoonful 

Salt. 

Pepper   to   Taste. 

Throw  the  onions  Into  cold  water.  Peel 
them,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices. 
Cover  tliem  w.ith  boiling  water,  and  let 
them  boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain 
off  the  water  thoroughly,  and  put  them 
into  a  frying  pan  with  a  large  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  and  season  to  taste 
and  let  them  fry  slowly  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Turn  frequently,  to  prevent 
them  from  burning.  Again,  the  onions 
may  be  fried  without  previous  boiling, 
some  preferring  this  latter  method,  as  it 
admits  of  the  onion  retaining  its  flavor. 
Simply  peel  and  pare  and  slice  into 
round-shaped  pieces.  Lay  the  pieces  in 
milk,  and  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs 
or  flour,  and  fry  them  In  boiling  fat  for 
about  ten  minutes.  Lift  them  out  of  the 
fat,  drain  well,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish 
with  fried  parsley  as  a  garnish.  Toung 
shallots  may  be  fried  by  washing  well  in 
cold  water,  cutting  off  the  rough  roots 
of  the  shallots,  and  then  cutting  the 
green  and  white  together  Into  half-Inch 
dice.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  fry  in  butter  for  aboiit  five  minutes. 
Garnish  a  dish  with  parsley  sprigs.  Lay 
the  shallots  on  these  and  serve  hot. 


147 


Smothered   Onions. 

Ognons  Sautes. 

1  Dozen  Small  Onions. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.    1    Quart    of 

Broth. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Put  the  onions  into  cold  water,  and 
remove  their  skins.  Then  put  them  into 
a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  a  soup  stock 
<pot-au-feu  or  bouillon),  if  you  have  it, 
otherwise  use  water,  and  let  them  stew 
slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  till  they 
are  almost  falling  to  pieces.  Then  drain 
the  onions  through  a  colander,  and  save 
the  stock.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
into  a  frying  pan,  and  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  and  make  a  Brown  Roux. 
(See  recipe.)  When  brown,  add  a  half 
pint  of  the  broth  in  which  the  onions 
were  boiled.  Season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  dash  of  Cayenne.  Put  the 
onions  into  this  and  let  them  simmer 
gently  for  about  twenty  minutes  longer. 
Serve  hot. 

Staffed   Onions. 

Ognons    Farcis. 

1-2  Dozen  Large  Spanish  Onions. 

A   Stuffing    of    Chaurice. 

Salt  and   Pepper   to   Taste. 

Take  a  half  dozen  fine,  large  St>anlsh 
onions,  and  put  them  in  hot  ashes  to 
roast.  When  they  are  sufficiently  cooked, 
which  will  be  in  about  half  an  hour, 
take  them  out  of  the  ashes,  dust  off  and 
peel  well.  Then  open  the  interiors  and 
fill  with  a  stuffing  made  as  follows: 
Take  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  put 
in  a  frying  pan,  and  add  three  Chaurice, 
which  you  will  have  taken  out  of  the 
casings  and  chopped  finely  again.  Add 
a  cup  of  bread,  which  has  been  wet  and 
squeezed,  and  mix  well.  Then  add  an 
Inch  of  ham,  finely  chopped,  and  a  sprig 
each  of  thyme  and  parsley  and  sweet 
marjoram,  and  one  bay  leaf,  all  finely 
minced.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  ITry  about  fifteen  minutes,  and 
then  stuff  the  onions  as  far  down  in  the 
center  as  possible,  and  between  the  folds. 
Sprinkle  the  top  with  powdered  bread 
crumbs,  and  put  a  Ifttle  dot  of  butter 
on  top  of  each.  Set  in  the  oven  and  let 
tbem  bake  for  about  thirty  or  forty 
minutes.    Serve  with  roast  beef. 

Another    nice    way^  of    stuffing    onions 
is  to .  peel  the  onion^  scooi»  out  the   cen- 
ters with  a  vegetable  scoop,  parboil  them 
for    ten    minutes,    and    then    fill    the    In- 
sides  with  the  sausage  forcemeat,  as  di- 
rected above.     Line  the  bottom  of  a  stew- 
pan  with  fine  strips  of  bacon.     Lay  over 
these  an  onion  and  a  carrot,  both  minced 
very    fine.     Place    the    onions    on    top    of 
this  and  moisten  with  a  pint  of  Chicken 
or   Veal    Consomme.     Set   in   the   oven   to 
bake  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
and    baste    frequently.    Serve    in    a    hot 
dish,  with  fEte  sauce  poured  over. 
Baked    Onions. 
Ognons   Rotis. 
1    D(teen    Large    Spanish    Onions. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Trim  the  onions  nicely,  but  do  not  peel 
them.  Then  put  them  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  rapidly 
for  about  an  hour.  Drain  in  a  colander. 
Then  put  them  in  a  baking  pan,  and  let 
them  bake  slowly  f(Jr  about  an  hour. 
Take  out  and  remove  the  skins,  and  place 
in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  Drawn 
Butter  Sauce.  (See  Beurre  a  la  Maitre 
d'Hotel.) 


After  taking  the  onions  out  of  the 
boiling  water,  if  you  wish  to  serve  with 
"Roast  Beef  aux  Ognons,"  peel  the 
onions  and  place  around  the  beef,  roast 
in  the  oven.  Baste  them  as  often  as  you 
baste  the  roast,  with  the  juices  that  come 
from  it.  Serve  with  the  roast,  using 
them  as  a  garnish  around  the  dish. 

Glazed    Onions. 

Ognons    Glaoes. 

1 1-2    Dozen    SVnall     Onions    of    Uniform 

Size. 

1  Tablespoonful  Sugar.    1  Cup  Water. 

i     Large    Teaspoonful    Butter. 

Salt  to   Taste. 

Select  small  Creole  onions  of  uniform 
size,  top  the  heads  and  the  stems,  and 
remove  the  skins,  but  not  too  closely, 
lest  they  should  break  up  when  boiling. 
Then  take  a  frying  pan,  large  enough  for 
the  onions  to  lie  in  it,  side  by  side.  Put 
the  butter  in  it  first,  and  when  melted 
add  the  onions.  Then  sprinkle  with  the 
sugar  and  water,  and  season  with  salt 
to  taste.  Set  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
where  they  can  simmer  gelilly  for  an 
hour.  When  nearly  done,  and  tender  all 
through,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
mixed  in  water,  blended  well.  Then  set 
in  the  oven,  with  a  paper  on  top.  Let 
them  stand  for  about  half  an  hour,  and 
use  as  a  garnish  for  beef,  veal,  etc.  The 
onions  will  be  nicely  glazed,  and  will 
make  the  dish   appear  very  beautiful. 

SHALIOTS. 

Bchallottes. 
Shallots  are  small-sized  onions,  grown 
in  clumps.  They  are  very  delicate  and 
mild  in  flavor,  and  much  used  In  soups, 
stews,  salads,  etc.  In  the  green  state 
they  are  also  chopped  and  fried  in  butter. 
(See    recipe    Fried    Onions.) 

PARSLEY. 

Persil. 

Parsley  is  one  of  the  most  Important 
of  all  vegetable  herbs,  entering,  as  It 
does,  into  the  seasoning  of  '  all  soups, 
meats,  fish  and  even  vegetables.  It  la 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  all  gar- 
nishes, and  gives  a  pretty  touch  to  the 
homeliest  dish.  The  "Plain-Leaved,  the 
"Double  Curled,"  or  the  "Beautiful  Gar- 
nish" varieties  are  always  to  be  found 
in   the   New    Orleans   market. 

Fried    Parsley. 

Persil    Frit. 
G   or  8  Sprigs   of  Parsley. 
1  Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

Pick      off      the      delicate      leaves      and 
branches    of    very   young    parsley,   wash 
well,   drain   and  put  in   a  frying  pan.   In 
which  you  will  have  placed  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard   and   allowed   to   reach  a  me- 
dium   hot    state.     Fry    slowly    and    drain 
and  use  as  a  garnish  or  as  needed. 
Chopped  Parsley. 
Persil   Hache. 
Wash   the    parsley   in    cold   water,    trim 
off   the    coarse   stems    and   branches   and 
leaves,  immerse  in  very  cold  water  again, 
drain,  press  dry  and  chop  very  fine.    Use 
as  needed. 

Parsley    Green. 

Persil    au    Jus. 

Take   young   parsley,    wash   well,   strip 

of  all  coarse  stems  and  branches,  plunge 

into    very    cold    water,    chop    very    fine. 


148 


squeeze    in    a    strong    kitchen    towel    and 
save    the    juice    for    coloring   xjnrpoaes. 

Parsley    for    Garnishing:    Purposes. 

Garniture  de  Persil. 

Take  several  bunches  of  fresh  parsley, 
trim  off  all  the  coarse  stems,  wash  in 
slightly  salted  water,  drain  and  place  in 
a  colander.  Set  over  a  watertight  ves- 
sel. Sliave  some  ice,  cover  the  parsley 
with  it  and  let  it  keep  fresh  and  cool  for 
table  garnishes.  Never  lay  parsley  that 
Is  intended  for  garnishing  purposes  in 
water,  as  the  freshness  will  be  quickly  de- 
stroyed, and  it  will  become  dark,  dis- 
colored, limp  and  slimy  and  devoid  of  all 
beauty    or    crispness. 

PARSNIPS. 

Des    Panais. 
6    or   8   Parsnips. 
1-2  Pint  of  Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 
To    boil    parsnips.    If    they    are    young, 
simply  scrape  them  and  lay  them  in  cold 
water.  If  the  parsnips  are  old,  pare  them 
and  cut  them  in  quarters,  or,  better  still, 
lengthwise.     Let  the  young  parsnips  cook 
in    salted    boiling    water    in    a    porcelain- 
lined    saucepan    for    forty-five    minutes; 
let  the  older  ones  cook  for  an  hour  and 
a  quarter.     When  done,  take  them  out  of 
the  saucepan,  and   drain  and   serve  on  a 
heated  dish   with   a  Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 
(See  Beurre  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel.) 

Boiled   Parsnips   With   Cream   Sauce. 

Panais    Bouillis    a   la    Creme. 

6  or  8  Parsnips.    A  Cream  Sauce. 

Proceed  exactly  as  above  in  peeling 
and  boiling  the  parsnips.  When  done, 
drain  and  put  into  a  heated  dish,  and 
serve  with  a  Cream  Sauce  poured  over 
them.  (See  recipe  Cream  Sauce.)  Serve 
the  parsnips  with  boiled  salt  or  fresh 
fish  or  boiled   corn  beef. 

Fried    Parsnips. 

Panais    Frits. 

5    Parsnips.    1    Tahlespoonful    Butter. 

2   Tablespoonfuls    of   Drippings    of   Roast 

Beef. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Chopped   Parsley   to    Garnish. 

Brush  and  scrape  or  peel  the  parsnips 
as  directed  above.  Then  boil  as  directed 
In  salted  water  till  tender.  When  done, 
drain  off  the  water  and  cut  the  parsnips 
into  slices  lengthwise  of  about  half  an 
Inch  In  thickness.  Put  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  the  drippings  of  the  roast  beef  In 
the  saucepan,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter.  WTien  hot  add  the  sliced  pars- 
nips. When  they  are  brown  on  one  side, 
turn  on  the  other  and  let  this  brown 
also.  Place  on  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley  and  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  serve  with  roast  meats. 

Smothered  Parsnips. 

Panais    Sautes. 

6    or    8    Parsnips.     2    Tablespoonfuls     of 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  lo  Taste. 

Chopped   Parsley   to   Garnish. 

Boil  the  parsnips  as  directed,  and  then 

cut    into     strips     of    the    length     of    the 

parsnip,  and  half  an  Inch  In  width.     Put 

a  big  cooklngspoonful  of  butter  into  the 

saucepan,  and  add  the  parsnips.  Sprinkle 

well    with    salt    and    pejSSer.    Cover    and 

let  them  fry,  but  Only  slightly  brown,  oi. 

either  side.    Serve   with   chopped   parsley 

as  a  garnish. 


Mashed  Parsnips. 

Puree    de    Panais. 

6     or     8     Parsnips.    1     Tahlespoonful     of 
Butter. 

1   Tahlespoonful   of   Flour.    1   Pint  of 

Milk. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  parsnips  until  so  tender  that 
they  break  easily  under  pressure.  Then 
mash  them  well,  after  draining  off  all 
water.  Put  a  tahlespoonful  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  and  add  a  tahlespoonful  of 
flour.  Blend,  without  browning,  and 
add  a  half  pint  of  milk  or  cream.  Stir 
well,  and  as  the  mixture  begins  to  boil, 
add  the  parsnips.  Mix  thoroughly,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  In  a 
dish,  heaping  up  the  parsnips  in  pyra- 
midal shape.     Serve  with  veal  cutlets. 

Parsnip  Balls. 

Boulettes    de    Panais. 

3    Large    Parsnips.    2   Eggs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil    the    parsnips    as    directed    above 

until  very,  very  tender.     Then  drain  and 

mash  through  a  colander.     Beat  two  eggs 

very   light,   and    add    the   parsnips,   using 

proportions    of    three    large    parsnips    to 

the    eggs.     Then    form    the    parsnips   into 

little  balls  or  boulettes,  and  fry  in  boiling 

lard,    or   make    into    little   cakes   and   fry 

on  a   griddle. 

Parsnip    Fritters. 

Beignets    de    Panais. 

5    Parsnips.     1    Tahlespoonful    of    Butter. 

1  Cup  of  Water.    2  Eggs. 

1-4    Pound    of    Flour.    1    Teaspoonful    of 

Salt. 

1   Teaspoonful  of  Pepper. 

Boil  the  parsnips  as  directed  above  till 
very  tender.  Then  cut  into  long,  narrow 
strips.  Make  a  batter  by  mixing  the 
flour  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
well.  Then  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and 
gradually  one  cup  of  water,  till  It  Is  ab- 
sorbed. Then  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  parsnips  to  the  batter 
Dip  out  one  at  a  time,  in  a  spoon  of 
butter,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Serve  as 
an    entree   at  dinner. 

PEAS. 

Des    Pols    Sees. 
All    dried,    split,    kidney    or    black-eyed 
peas  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner 
as    beans.     (See   recipe.) 

GKFEN    PBAS. 

Des  Pols  Verts. 

Green  peas  are  abundant  In  our  New 
Orleans  market,  with  but  a  short  respite, 
almost  all  the  year.  We  have  two  crops, 
the  spring  and  fall.  The  large  peas,  or 
older  ones,  are  called  "Des  Pols  Verts," 
and  the  smaller,  or  French  peas,  "Des 
Petits  Pois."  The  latter  are  great  deli- 
cacies when  boiled  and  served  with  but- 
ter; the  former  may  be  utilized  In  mak- 
ing that  most  delectable  dish,  "Puree  des 
Pols  Verts."  (See  recipe  In  chapter  on 
Soups.) 

To    Cook    Canned     Green    Peas. 

Petits  Pois  en  Conserve. 
The  delightful  preparations  of  French 
peas  that  come  put  up  Jn  cans  do  not  re- 
quire much  cooking,  being,  like  all 
canned  vegetables,  already  cooked.  To 
cook  these  drain  the  peas  from  all  liquor 


149 


after  opening  the  can,  and  put  them  in  a 
saucepan;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Set  on  the 
fire,  and,  when  thoroughly  heated,  serve 
immediately.  Green  peas  are  served  with 
all  roast,  and  broiled  and  sauted  meats, 
fowls  or  game.  There  is  scarcely  a  vege- 
table that  admits  of  such  various  uses 
with    entrees. 

Boiled   Green  Peas. 

Petit    Pois    au    Naturel. 

1    Pint   of    Fresh    Young   Green    Peas. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
Salt   and   Pepper   to    Taste. 

Shell  the  peas,  and  when  you  have  a 
pint  (sufficient  for  six),  put  the  peas  into 
cold  water,  drain  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  to  prevent  the  peas  from  crack- 
ing, and  let  them  boil  rapidly  for  at 
least  twenty  minutes.  To  ascertain  if 
they  are  done,  take  one  out  and  press 
with  a  fork.  The  great  art  in  cooking 
green  peas  properly  is  to  have  plenty  of 
water,  to  cook  the  peas  very  rapidly, 
and  not  to  let  them  boil  a  moment  longer 
than  necessary,  if  you  would  keep  them 
from  being  soggy  and  preserve  their 
fresh  color  and  sweetness.  Fresh  peas 
should  never  be  shelled  until  the  moment 
when  you  wish  to  cook  them.  When 
cooked,  they  must  be  eaten  immediately. 
As  soon  as  done,  drain  off  all  water; 
put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  Into 
the  saucepan  with  the  peas,  season  with 
pepper  to  taste,  pour  into  a  vegetable 
dish  and  serve  hot.  This  Is  the  very 
nicest  way  of  cooking  this  dainty  vege- 
table. 

As  the  peas  grow  older  and  larger,  they 
may  be  made  into  purees,  or  cooked  as 
follows: 

Green    Peas    a    la    Bourgeois. 

Pois    Vertis    Sautes    a    la    Bourgeoise. 

1  Pint  of  Peas. 

11-2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1  Ounce  of  Chopped  Onion. 

1  Herb  Bouquet,  Minced  Fine. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

1-2  Pint  of  Cream  or  Milk  or  W^ter. 

Shell  and  boil  the  peas  according  to 
the  above  recipe.  Add  sprigs  of  parsley, 
thyme  and  bay  leaf,  finely  minced.  When 
done,  which  will  be  in  about  forty  min- 
utes, if  the  peas  are  large,  or  perhaps 
a  few  minutes  longer  (easily  ascertained 
by  taking  out  a  pea  and  pressing  it  with 
a  fork),  drain  off  all  water  and  add  one 
tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  butter.  Then 
blend  the  flour,  and  add  the  milk, 
preferably,  mixing  together  and  stirring 
well,  to  prevent  browning  or  burning. 
S'erve  hot.  Some  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
well  beaten,  after  taking  the  peas  off  the 
tire,  but  this  is  a  matter  of  taste;  the 
flavor  of  the  peas  is  more  perceptible 
without  it. 

Green  Peas,   Oonntry   Style. 

Petits   Pois  Verts   a   la   Paysanne. 

1   Pint   of   Green   Peas.     3   Small   Carrots. 

1-8    of   a    Head    of    Green    and    White 

Cabbage. 

A  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2  Pint  of  Consomme  of  Veal  or  Chicken. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Shell  the  peas;  take  three  small  carrots, 

and    one-eighth    of    a    head    of    cabbage, 

and  one-quarter  head  of  lettuce,  and  cut 

into    small    dice-shaped    pieces.       Put    a 

tablespoonful    of    butter    in    a    saucepan 

and      let      the      dice-shaped      vegetables 


smother  for  about  fifteen  minutes  over  a 
slow  fire  without  browning.  Add  the 
green  peas  and  the  consomme,  and  let  all 
cook  for  a'  half  hour,  stirring  frequently 
to  prevent  burning.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  use  a  sprinkling 
of  chopped  parsley  as  a  garnish. 

Green  Peas,  Frencli  Style. 

Petit  Pois   Verts   a,   la   Francaise. 
1  Pint  of  Fresh  Green  Peas,  or  1  Can. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter.     1-2    Cup   of 

Water. 

1    Herb    Bouquet.     1    Lettuce    Heart. 

1    Onion. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Shell  the  peas  and  wash  and  drain 
them.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  the 
herb  bouquet,  the  onion  whole,  and  the 
lettuce  heart,  and  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  let  them  simmer  slowly  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Then 
drain  off  the  water,  remove  the  onion 
and  herb  bouquet,  lay  the  lettuce  heart 
on  a  dish,  and  add  another  tablespoonful 
of  butter  to  the  peas.  Let  them  cook  for 
five  minutes  longer.  Pour  the  peas  over 
the  lettuce  heart  and  send  to  the  table 
hot,  and  serve  with  chops  or  cutlets  as  a 
vegetable. 

Green  Peas,  Old  Creole  Style. 

Petits   Pois   Verts   a   I'Ancienne   Mode 
Creole. 

1  Pint   of  Young  Gtreen  Peas. 

3  Tablespoonfuls    of   Butter.     1-4    Cup   of 

Cream. 
The  Yolk  of  1  Egg. 
1   Teaspoonful   of  Powdered   Sugar. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
STiell  and  clean  the  peas  carefully.  Put 
them    in    a    saucepan    wit'h    three    table- 
spoonfuls   of    butter,    and    cover    with    a 
cup    of    water;    season    with    a    pinch    of 
salt,  and  let  them  cook  for  twenty  min- 
utes,   or   until    tender.     Take   three   table- 
spoofuls  of  cream  and  beat  with  the  yolk 
of    one    egg.    add    a    half   pinch    of   white 
pepper,    and    mix    thoroughly    with    the 
peas.     Add     a    teaspoonful     of    powdered 
sugar,  stir  well,  and  let  all  cook  together 
for  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

Puree  of  Green  Peas  a  la  Creole. 

Puree  de   Pois  Verts   a   la  Creole. 

1  Pint  of  Green  Peas.    1  Cup  of  Milk  or 

Cream. 

A  Pinch  of  Salt  and  White  Pepper. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Shell  and  clean  the  peas  well;  then  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  cream  and  a 
half  cup  of  water,  and  let  them  simmer 
till  they  become  quite  soft.  Then  remove 
the  pan  from  the  fire;  rub  the  peas 
through  a  fine  sieve;  season  well  with 
the  salt  and  pepper  and  sugar;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter;  beat  the  butter 
in  well  with  the  peas;  set  on  the  stove 
for  five  minutes  and  serve  hot.  Peas 
thus  prepared  are  served  as  a  vegetable 
with   entrees   and    other  meats. 

Puree   of   Green   Peas   a   la    St.    Germain. 

Puree  de  Pois  Verts  a  la  St.  Germain. 

1  Pint  of  Green  Peas.    1  Pint  of  Chicken 

Broth. 
1  Pint  of  Sweet  Cream.    1  Herb  Bouquet. 

2   Sprigs   of  Mint. 

A  Pinch  Each  of  Salt  and  White  Pepper. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Powdered  SHigar. 

8   Chicken    Quenelles    to    Garnish. 


150 


Shell  and  clean  the  peas  and  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  or  sautoire,  with  one  pint 
of  chicken  broth  and  one  pint  of  sweet 
cream.  Add  an  herb  bouquet,  in  which 
you  will  have  tied  two  sprigs  of  mint. 
Let  the  peas  coolc  for  twenty  minutes, 
or  until  very  tender,  and  then  remove  the 
herb  bouquet  and  mint;  take  from  the 
fire,  and  run  the  peas  through  a  sieve. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
powdered  sugar;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  set  on  the  fire  five  minutes 
longer,  and  then  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with 
Chicken  Quenelles  (see  recipe)  to  gar- 
nish. Make  the  quenelles  from  the  chick- 
en left  over  from  the  broth.  This  is  a 
very  recherche  dish.     Serve  as  an  entree. 

POTATOES. 

De    la    Pomme    de    Terre. 

Potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  a  greater 
variety  of  ways  than  any  other  vege- 
table. They  are  most  nutritious  and  are 
always  economical  as  well  as  a  palatable 
dish  on  the  table. 

Steamed    Potatoes. 
Pommes  de  Terre  a   la  Vapeur. 

8  Nice  Potatoes. 
A    Pot    of    Boiling    Water.     Salt. 

Wash  the  potatoes  well,  scrubbing 
thoroughly,  to  take  off  every  particle  of 
earth  that  adheres.  Then  put  them  in  a 
potato  steamer,  and  set  over  a  pot  of 
boiling  water.  Cover  tight  and  steam 
till  you  can  pierce  with  a  fork.  Potatoes 
should  never  be  boiled  if  you  can  steam 
them  conveniently,  as  they  are  naturally 
watery.  When  done,  remove  the  jackets, 
or  skin,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  In 
which  you  have  mingled  chopped  pars- 
ley; and  serve  immediately.  Or  they  may 
be  served  just  as  they  are,  in  a  covered 
dish.  A  potato  should  atwarys  be  mealy, 
and  not  sogged  with  water,  if  cooked 
properly.  In  cooking  potatoes  the  time 
depends  on  the  size  of  'the  potato.  An 
unfailing  test  is  to  cook  till  the  potato 
can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork. 

Boiled    Potatoes. 

Pommes  de  Terre  au  Naturel. 

6   Potatoes,   of  Uniform  Size,  if  Possible. 

Boiling  Water. 

Potatoes  should  always  be  boiled  In 
their  skins,  or  jackets,  if  possible.  Never 
be  guilty  of  paring  a  new  potato  before 
boiling.  Towards  the  close  of  winter, 
Just  before  the  new  crop  comes  in,  the 
potatoes  may  be  pared,  so  that  blemishes 
may  be  removed.  But  this  is  scarcely 
necessary  in  our  state,  unless  the  old  no- 
tatoes  have  sprouted   and  shriveled. 

Wash  and  scrub  the'iiotatoes  well,  and 
put  them  on  in  their  jackets  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  which  has  been  well  salt- 
ed. Let  them  cook  until  they  are  soft 
enough  to  be  pierced  with  a  fork.  Do 
not  let  them  remain  a  moment  longer, 
or  they  will  become  waxy  and  watery. 
Nothing  is  more  disagreeable  than  a  wa- 
tery potato.  When  done,  take  them  out 
and  drain  dry.  Put  into  steamer,  sprin- 
kle with  salt,  and  cover  and  let  them 
stand  over  the  kettle  (Hd  open)  on  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes  fof  the  water  to 
evaporate.  After  five  minutes  take  off 
and  peel  quickly,  and  serve  in  a  covered 
vegetable  dish. 

Potatoes  With  Drawn  Bntter. 

Pommes  de  Terre  aux  Beurre  Maltre 

d'Hotel. 

6  Potatoes. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Butter.     Salt   and 
Pepper. 


Boil  the  potatoes  according  to  the 
above  recipe.  Peel  and  pour  over  them 
a  tablespoonful  of  'Snelted  butter,  in 
which  you  have  mingled  chopped  parsley. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Potatoes  pre- 
pared in  this  way  are  delicious. 

Or,  if  you  wish  to  have  mashed  pota- 
toes, or  a  "Puree  of  Potatoes,"  as  a  vege- 
table, mash  the  potatoes  well,  and  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Place  in  a  dish,  mold 
prettily,  and  serve  hot  with  meals,  fish, 
poultry,  etc.  A  half  cup  of  milk  or  cream 
may  be  added  to  the  puree  with  very 
delicious  results.  (For  Puree  of  Potatoes 
as  soup,  see  recipe  under  beading  Soups.) 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Creme. 
6  Potatoes.  A  Cream  Sauce. 
Boil  the  potatoes  as  above,  and  pour 
over  them  (remembering  always  to  keep 
them  whole)  a  Cream  Sauce.  (See  re- 
cipe.) Serve  hot  with  fried  chicken.  Add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Potatoes  a  la  Maltre  d'Hotel, 

Pommes    de    Terre    a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

6    Potatoes.     Sauce   a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel. 

Boil    the    potatoes    whole,    according  to 

recipe,  and  serve  hot.  "with  a  Sauce  a  la 

Maitre  d'Hotel  poured  over  them. 

Potato   Puffs, 

Pommes  de  Terre  Souffle  a  la  Creole. 

2  Cups  of  Cold  Mashed  Potatoes. 

2    Eggs.     3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Cream    or 

Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter. 

S'alt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

This   is   a   nice  way  to   utilize  left-over 

potatoes.    Mash    the    potatoes    well,    and 

put    them    into    a    frying    pan    with    the 

butter.    Add    the    yolks    of    2    eggs    well 

beaten     and    stir    well,    and    almost   add 

Immediately   the   cream.     Let  it  get  very 

hot,  stirring  all  the  time.     Then  take  the 

potatoes     from    the     fire,     and    add    the 

whites    of    the    eggs,    beaten    to    a    stiff 

froth.     Butter    a    baking    dish    or    biscuit 

pan,    and    fill    with    the    mixture.    Let    It 

bake  In  a  quick  oven  till  brown. 

Potato    Snow. 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Neige. 

6  Potatoes.  Salt  to  Taste. 
Boil  the  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on; 
Then  peel  them  and  set  them  before  the 
fire,  to  allow  all  the  water  to  evaporate. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt.  Then  rub  than 
through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Let  the 
potato  fall  In  light,  flaky  drops,  like 
snow  flakes.  Do  not  touch  the  flakes  aa 
they  fall.  Serve  on  the  dish  in  which 
the  flakes  have  fallen. 

Potato  Croquettes. 
Pommes   de  Terre  en   Croquettes. 
2   Cups   of   Mashed   Potatoes. 
1   Tablespoonful   of  Chopped  Parsley. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cream. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Onion  Juice. 
1  Teaspoonful   of  Salt.    1  Ounce  of  But- 
ter. 
The    Tolks    of    2    Eggs.     A    Dash    of 

Cayenne. 
Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream  and  add 
them  to  the  potatoes.  Mix  well  and 
then  add  the  cream  and  all  the  other 
Ingredients.  Mix  well,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  until  the 
mixture  leaves  the  side  of  the  vessel. 
Take  off  the  fire,  and  set  to  cool.  When 
cold,  form  Into  cylinders  of  about  two 
and  a  half  inches  In  length   and  one  in 


151 


width.  Roll  first  in  a  beaten  egrg,  to 
bind,  and  tlien  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
to  a  golden  brown  in  boiling  lard.  (See 
general  directions  for  frying.)  When 
done,  lift  out  of  the  lard  with  a  skimmer, 
and  drain  on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth 
of  the  loven.  Serve  for  breakfast,  or  as  a 
garnish  for  meats.  Utilize  left-over  po- 
tatoes in  this  way.  Serve  with  fish, 
fried,    broiled    or    baked. 

Boulettes  are  prepared  in  exactly  the 
same  manner,  only  thyme  and  bay  leaf, 
minced  ver"*^  fine,  are  added,  and  the  po- 
tatoes are  formed  Into  balls,  or  boulettes. 
Boulettes  are  eaten  more  gejierally  at 
breakfast,  and  croquettes  at  dinner,  espe- 
cially with   fislh. 

Potatoes    au    Gratin. 
Pommes   de   Terre   au   Gratin. 

5  Oold  Boiled  Potatoes. 

1-2  Pint    of   Cream.    2   Tablespoonfuls    of 

Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Flour. 

Sl-2  Heaping  Tablespoonfuls   of  Gruyere 

or   Parmesan   Cheese. 

The  Tolks   of  4  Eggs. 

1-2  Pint  of  Consomme   or  "Water. 

Salt  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

Put  the  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  and 
as  it  melts,  add  the  flour,  and  let  it 
blend,  rubbing  smooth,  without  brown- 
ing. Then  add  the  consomme  or  water 
and  the  cream,  and  stif  constantly  tUl 
the  mixture  boils.  Then  take  the  sauce- 
pan from  the  fire,  and  add  the  cheese, 
well  grated,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat 
all  thoroughly  till  light.  Maslx  the  pota- 
toes well,  and  place,  first,  a  layer  of  the 
sauce  in  the  saucepan,  and  then  of  the 
potatoes,  and  so  on  till  the  sauce  forms 
the  top  layer.  Sprinkle  this  lightly  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  set  in  the  oven  and 
let  bake  ten  minutes.  When  it  comes  to 
a  nice  brown,  serve  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  was  baked. 

Potato  Souffle. 
Pommes   de  Terre   en   Souffle. 
2   Cups   of   Mashed   Potatoes. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Melted    Butter. 

2    Eggs. 

1-2    Cup    of    Cream. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Mash  tihe  potatoes  well,  pressing  them 
through  a  colander.  Then  add  the  but- 
ter, and  beat  till  smooth  and  light.  Add 
the  cream  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Then  add  the  whites,  which  must  be  beat- 
en to  a  stiff  froth.  Then  heap  this  into 
a  dish,  leaving  tlie  mound  rough  and 
uneven,  so  that  the  dish  will  look  pretty 
with  the  tips  nicely  browned.  Set  In  the 
oven  and  bake  to  a  beautiful  brown,  and 
serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

Scalloped  potatoes  are  cooked  in  the 
same  manner,  only  the  potatoes  are  out 
into  dice,  a  Cream  Sauce  is  made,  and  a 
layer  of  potatoes  and  a  layer  of  the 
sauce  is  put  into  a  pan  or  shells,  and 
then  alternate  layers,  with  a  layer  of 
sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  serve  in  the  shells  or  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

French    Fried    Potatoes. 
Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Francaise. 

6  Potatoes.     Boiling  liard. 
Chopped   Parsley  to   Garnish. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and,  then  cut  Into 
three-inch  dice,  or  sections  like  an 
orange.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan  of 
very  hot,  boiline  lard,  and  let  them  fry 
to    a    golden    yellow    or    brown.     Do    not 


burn.  Take  them  out  with  a  skimmer, 
and  drain  in  a  heated  colander.  Stand 
the  colander  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven 
while  you  fry  the  remainder  of  the  po- 
tato. When  done,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
garnish  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve 
hot. 

Julienne  Potatoes, 

Pommes   de   Terre  a  la  Julienne. 

4  Potatoes.     Boiling  Lard. 

Peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  into  long, 
thin  strips.  Then  fry  in  boiling  lard 
and  serve. 

Potato    Chips. 

Pommes   de   Terre   Frites. 

2  Potatoes.     Boiling  Lard. 
Parsley  Sprigs  to  Garnish. 

Have  two  medium-sized  potatoes,  and 
slice  them  just  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
fry  in  boiling  lard.  (See  directions  for 
frying.)  Use  a  vegetable  cutter,  if  you 
have  one,  for  slicing  the  potato.  Drop 
a  few  pieces  at  a  time  into  the  lard,  and 
be  sure  to  have  the  lard  about  three 
inches  deep.  Stir  the  slices  occasionally, 
to  keep  them  from  overlapping  the  oth- 
ers, When  a  light  brown,  take  out  of 
the  pan,  and  drain  on  a  piece  of  brown 
paper,  which  you  have  put  in  a  colander. 
Stand  in  the  open  oven,  and  continue 
frying.  As  you  finish  the  second  frying 
turn  the  first  from  the  colander 
into  a  heated  dish,  and  so  continue 
till  all  the  potatoes  are  fried.  Serve  hot. 
Garnish,  if  you  wish,  with  parsley  sprigs. 
Xiyonnalse  Potatoes. 
Pommes    de    Terre   a   la   Lyonnaise. 

2   Pints   of   Cold   Boiled  Potatoes,   Cut  in 

Dice. 

2     Onions.    2     Large     Tablespoonfuls 

Butter. 

S'alt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  cut 
them  into  slices.  Slice  the  onions 
fine.  Put  the  lard  into  the  frying 
pan  and  as  it  melts  add  the  onions.  Let 
them  fry  until  half  done,  and  then  add 
the  potatoes.  Fry  and  stir  gently  until 
the  potatoes  are  a  light  yellow.  They 
must  not  be  fried  brown  or  crisp,  but 
merely  sauted,  or  smothered,  in  the  on- 
ions. The  dish  is  really  Pommes  de 
Terres  Sautees  a  la  Lyonnaise.  When 
done,  turn  into  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve  very  hot. 
Brabant  Potatoes. 
Pommes   de   Terre   Brabant. 

3  Boiled  Potatoes. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1   Tablespoonful   of   Chopped  Parsley. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lard. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Vinegar. 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  sniall  dice-shaped 
pieces  and  fry  them  for  a  few  minutes 
in  the  lard.  When  half  brown  take  out 
of  the  lard  and  finish  frying  in  the  but- 
ter to  a  light  brown.  When  ready  to 
ter  to  a  light  brown.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  three  sprigs  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
salt  and  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and   serve  hot. 

Potatoes    a,   la   Bourgeoise. 

Pommes   de   Terre  a  la   Bourgeoise. 

6   Potatoes.    1    Pint    Gravy    or   Broth. 

1   Onion.    1  Leak. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  out  into 

quarters,  and  then  drain  and  put  Into  a 

saucepan,  and  cover  with  any  meat  gravy 


152 


or  soup  stock  that  may  have  remained, 
and  chopped  onion,  chopped  lealc,  pepper 
and  salt.  Set  on  the  stove  and  let  stew 
or  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  This  is  an 
excellent  family  dish,  that  can  be  made 
with  left-over  potatoes,  and  may  be  used 
for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

Potatoes  With  Butter. 
Pommes   de  Terre   au   Beurre. 

16  Small  New  Potatoes. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1   Tablespoonful   Parsley. 

Select  for  thi.=!  danlty  dish  small,  round 
new  potatoes,  about  the  size  of  a  marble. 
Boil  them  for  about  balf  an  hour  or 
twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  touch 
when  pierced  with  a  fork.  Then  drain 
off  water,  peel  quickly,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Let  them  brown  lightly,  and  serve  with 
Drawn  .Butter  Sauce,  in  which  you  have 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

Potatoes   a  la    Creole. 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Creole. 

8  Potatoes.    ]    Spoonful   of  Flour. 

Tolks   of  2   Eggs.     2   Teaspoonfuls   of 

Vinegar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

Salt   and   Pepper. 

Boil  the  potatoes  according  to  recipe. 
Then  take  out  of  the  water,  drain  and 
set  to  the  side  of  the  stove  for  five  min- 
utes, to  evaporate.  Then  take  off  and 
pour  over  the  following  sauce:  Blend  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  with  two  of  butter, 
and,  as  it  melts,  add  about  three  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  and  take  off  the  stove  and  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  which  has  been 
beaten  very  light.  Add  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  vinegar.  Beat  well,  and  pour  over 
the  potatoes,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold 
a   la  salade. 

FotatoeB    a    la    Diable. 

Pommes    de    Terre    a    la    Diable. 

2  Dozen  New  Potatoes,  About  the  Size  of 

Marbles. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Mustard. 

2  Large  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

A    Dash    of    Cayenne.     Salt   to    Taste. 

Take  nice,  fresh  new  potatoes  and  boil 
them.  (See  recipe  for  boiling  potatoes.) 
When  done,  take  off  and  let  evaporate, 
being  careful  not  to  have  cooked  them 
too  much.  Take  a  ^eep  frying  pan,  and 
heat  the  lard  to  the  boiling  point.  When 
it  begins  to  boil  drop  in  the  potatoes, 
and  let  them -fry  for  about  five  minutes. 
Lift  out  with  a  slcimmer,  drain  quickly, 
and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  Into 
wbich  you  have  rubbed  well  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  prepared  mustard.  Add  a  dash  of 
Cayenne  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar. Let  it  cook  for  three  or  four  min- 
utes, shaking  constantly,  and  then  take 
off.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well 
beaten,    and   serve 

Dnchess  Potatoes. 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Duchesse. 

1   Dozen  Boiled  Potatoes. 
The  Yolk  of  1  Egg. 

Take  one  dozen  boiled  potatoes,  mash 
them,  and  form  into  small  square  cakes. 
Criss-cross  them  gracefully  with  a  knife, 
brush  with  the  yolk  of  an  eg:g  beaten  in 
water  or  milk,  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
bake  to  a  delicate  brown. 


Potatoes  a  la  Parlslenne. 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Parisienne. 

8    Potatoes. 

1   Kitchenspoonful    of   Butter. 

1-2   Pint    of   Milk    or   W^ater.    2  Eggs. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  let  them  boil  till 
tender  in  salt  and  water.  Take  them 
out  of  the  water  and  grate  and  mash 
them  into  a  paste.  Put  this  potato  paste 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  kitchenspoonful  of 
butter  and  a  half  pint  of  milk  or  water, 
more  or  less,  according  to  the  dryness 
of  the  potatoes.  Season  lightly  with  salt, 
and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  flower 
water,  to  give  a  pleasant  taste.  Let  all 
boil  together,  stirring  constantly  until  a 
smooth  and  thick  paste  is  formed.  Then 
turn  the  mixture  into  another  pan,  in 
which  you  have  already  beaten  two  eggs 
until  very,  very  light.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  make  small  boulettes  or  balls  Qf  this 
paste.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  lard, 
place  the  boulettes  in  it,  and  when  they 
are  a  beautiful  golden  brown  take  them 
out,  drain  and  serve  hot.  The  orange 
flower  water  may  be  omitted.  The  bou- 
lettes may  also  be  sprinkled  with  fine 
■white  sugar,  according  to  the  true  Paris- 
ian style.  The  Creoles  serve  them  with 
or  without  the  sugar,  according  to  taste. 

Sweet  potatoes  may  also  be  prepared 
after  this  manner,  and  are  delicious.  The 
sweet  potatoes  are  always  sprinkled  with 
white  sugar. 

Potato   Balls. 

Pommes  de  Terre  en  Boulettes. 

8  Potatoes. 

1   Kitchenspoonful   of  Butter. 

1-2  Pint  of  Milk.     2  Eggs. 

Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Cook  the  potatoes  as  above,  or  use  cold 
left-over  potatoes,  for  this  dish.  Mash 
the  potatoes  well,  and  add  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  cold  left-over  meat  or  pork, 
minced  very  fine.  Sausage  may  also  be 
used,  with  or  without  the  meat.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  minced  parsley 
and  shallots  or  onions.  Mix  well  ■with 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  form  into 
balls  of  medium  size.  Brush  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Serve  with 
garnish  of  chopped  parsley  or  with  meat 
gravy. 

Potato    Quenelles. 

Quenelles    de    Pommes    de   Terre. 

6  Potatoes. 
1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.    2    Eggs. 

Boil  the  potatC'es,  peel  and  mash  very 
fine.  Add  the  butter  and  minced  parsley, 
and  a  half  onion  minced  very  fine.  Add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten  very  light, 
and  then  form  the  potatoes  into  balls  ana 
throw  them  for  two  minutes  into  boiling 
water.  Take  out,  brush  with  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  roll  lightly  in  powdered  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Drain 
and  serve  with  fish,  meat  or  any  sauce. 

Baked    Potatoes. 

Pommes  de   Terre  Roties. 

6    or   8    Potatoes. 

A    Drawn    Butter    Sauce,    or    Sauce    a    la 

Hollandaise. 

To  bake  potatoes  without  meat,  wash 
the  potatoes  well,  set  them  in  the  oven 
In  their  skins,  and  in  about  an  hour 
open  the  oven  slightly  and  take  the  po- 
tatoes out,  one  by  one,  in  a  cloth,  and 
press  lightly  to  see  if  they  are  quite 
soft  to-  the  touch.  Then  either  bring  to 
the  table  in  their  Jackets,  as  many  pre- 


153 


fer,  or  pare  and  serve  with  a  Drawn  But- 
ter Sauce,  or  with  daubes,  meats,  sautes, 
etc.,  or  with  any  fish  or  meats  with 
gravies. 

Stuffed    Fotatoeg    a    la     Creole. 

Pommes  de  Terre  Farcies  a  la  Creole. 

6     or     8     Potatoes.    Chaurice     (Sausage) 

Forceffieat. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

This  is  a  delightful  Creole  variation 
for  preparing  potatoes.  Select  fine  large 
potatoes,  and  have  ready  several  nice 
Chaurice.     Wash    and    peel    the    potatoes. 

Potatoes  may  also  t)e  stuffed  after 
washing,  by  peeling  carefully  and  scoop- 
ing out  the  insides  nicely  with  a  spoon 
or  sharp-pointed  knife.  Then  make  a 
sausage  forcemeat  (see  recipe),  and  heap 
up  lightly  on  top.  Butter  a  baking  dish 
nicely,  place  the  potatoes  upon  it,  and 
let  them  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  a  half 
hour  or  forty-five  minutes,  till  nicely 
browned,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Stuffed    Potatoes,    Lenten    Style. 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Creme. 

6  Large  Potatoes.     The  Tolk  of  1  Egg. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1   Tablespoonful   of   Chopped   Parsley. 

1-2  Cup  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Bake  the  potatoes  in  the  oven,  and, 
when  done,  cut  one  end  and  scoop  out 
the  meat  without  breaking  the  skin.  Add 
the  yolk  of  one  egg,  the  butter,  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
the  grated  nutmeg,  and  moisten  all  with 
the  cream  or  milk.  Mix  well  and  beat 
very  light.  Then  refill  the  skins  and 
return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes, 
till  very  hot  and  slightly  browned,  and 
serve. 

Stuffed  Potatoes,  Swisa  Style, 

Pommes    de    Terre    Farcies    a    la    Suisse. 

6   or  8   Potatoes.    1   Tablespoonful    of 

Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Hot  Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt.     Pepper  to  Taste. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

Bake  the  potatoes,  and,  when  they  are 
done,  cut  off  the  tops  and  scoop  out  the 
meat  into  a  hot  bowl;  mash  very  fine, 
and  add  the  butter,  the  milk  and  salt  and 
pepper.  Some  add  a  little  grated  Gruyere 
cheese;  this  is  a  matter  of  taste.  Beat 
all  till  very  light,  and  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  and  stir  lightly.  Fill 
the  potato  skins  with  this  preparation, 
heaping  the  flaky  potatoes  nicely  on  top. 
Brush  over  lightly  with  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  and  serve 
hot. 

Potatoes    as    u.    Garnish, 

Pommes  de  Terre  pour  Garniture. 

6  Potatoes. 
Beef,   Veal   or   Mutton   Drippings. 

Select  nice,  round  potatoes,  if  you  wish 
to  roast  them  with  beef.  Wash  them, 
clean,  boil,  or,  better,  steam  them;  peel 
and  lay  them  in  the  pan  with  the  beef 
or  mutton  or  veal,  and  let  them  brown 
awhile  before  the  meat  is  done,  basting 
them  when  you  baste  the  meat  with  the 
drippings  from  the  roast.  Place  as  a 
garnish  around  the  roast,  and  bring  to 
the  table  hot. 


SWEET    POTATOES. 

Des    Palates    Douces. 

Sweet  potatoes  may  be  boiled,  bak«d, 
fried  or  made  into  purees,  and  used  In 
puddings  and  pies.  The  sweet  potato  is 
one  of  our  most  common  vegetables.  Pos- 
sessing saccharine  properties,  it  is  es- 
pecially   nourishing   and    palatable. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Patates   Douces   Bouillis. 

6    Potatoes.     A    Drawn, Butter    Sauce. 

Wash  the  potatoes  well,  using  a  cloth 
or  brush,  and  removing  every  particle  of 
earth.  Clip  the  edges  of  the  roots  that 
adhere.  Put  them  to  boil  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  them  cook  till 
they  may  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork. 
Then  drain  off  the  water,  and  set  the 
kettle  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Cover 
and  let  the  potatoes  steam  a  few  minutes. 
Take  them  out  after  five  minutes  or  so, 
and  peel  and  serve  them  with  Drawn 
Butter  Sauce,  or  cut  in  slices  and  spread 
butter  over  them,  and  set  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  seconds,  and  serve  hot  with 
daubes,  fish,  grillades,  etc.  Sweet  pota- 
toes are  in  particular  the  vegetable  that 
is  served  with  roast  pork. 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Patates  Do'uces  Frites. 
4    Potatoes.     3    Tablespoonfuls    of   Butter. 

Cut  the  boiled  potatoes  lengthwise  In 
slices.  Fry  in  very  hot  butter  until 
brown,  and  serve  hot.  This  is  a  very 
nice  way  to   utilize  left-over  potatoes. 

To  fry  uncooked  potatoes,  the  great 
breakfast  dish  for  fast  days  among  the 
Creoles,  slice  the  potatoes  not  length- 
wise, but  by  rounds,  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard.  Bring  to  the  table  when  a  beauti- 
ful brown,  and  eat  with  butter,  spread 
generously  over. 

Sweet    Potatoes    an    Caramel. 

Patates    Douces    au    Caramel. 
4   Potatoes.     Boiling   Lard    or   Butter. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 
Boil  the  potatoes,  and  then  cut  them 
lengthwise  in  halves.  Fry  in  boiling  lard 
or  butter,  and,  ■while  frying,  sprinkle 
generously  with  sugar.  This  is  a  de- 
licious sweet  entree. 

Baked     Sweet     Potatoes. 

Patates  Douces  Roties. 

6   or   8   Potatoes.    1    Tablespoonful    of 
Butter. 

Wash  the  potatoes,  and  scrub  the  skins, 
but  do  not  peel  them.  By  rubbing  the 
skins  of  the  potatoes  lightly  all  over  with 
a  little  lard,  butter  or  fat  bacon,  it  will 
render  the  skins  soft  and  pliable  to  the 
touch  when  baked;  they  will  peel  read- 
ily, without  crumbling  from  dryness,  as 
baked  potatoes  often  do,  the  peeling  com- 
ing off  in  thin  strips,  leaving  the  potato 
intact.  Put  the  potatoes  in  a  baking  pan 
in  the  oven,  and  let  them  took  until  their 
centers  are  mellow  to  the  touch.  Serve 
in  their  jackets  immediately.  Serve  with 
roast  meats,  daubes,  grillades,  etc.,  or  as 
a  Friday  dish,  to  be  eaten  with  butter. 

To  roast  potatoes  with  meat  or  pork, 
wash  and  boil  the  potatoes  well,  and  a 
half  hour  before  the  roast  pork  or  beef 
is  done  pare  the  potatoes,  drain  well,  and 
place  in  the  baking  pan,  around  the  pork 
or  beef,  and  baste  frequently  with  the 
dripping  from  the  roasting  meat.  Or  put 
in   the   pan   without  boiling,    and   bake   a 


154 


half  hour  longer'.     The  former  is  the  best 
method. 

Sweet    Potato    Fritters. 

Patates    Douces    en    Beignets. 

4   Boiled   Sweet  Potatoes. 

1  Glass  of  Milk,  White  Wine  or  Brandy. 

1   Teaspoonful    of   Sugar. 

Juice  of   Lemon.     Powdered   Sugar. 

Cut  the  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  slen- 
der round  slices,  and  steep  them  for  a 
half  hour  in  a  little  White  wine  or 
Brandy  or  milk.  Then  make  a  light  bat- 
ter, to  which  you  will  have  added  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  to  the  soaking  potatoes.  Take 
each  slice  at  a  time,  dip  it  in  the  batter, 
and  let  it  drop  from  the  spoon  into  the 
boiling  lard.  When  fried  to  a  nice  golden 
brown  place  on  a  piece  of  brown  paper, 
and  drain  in  the  oven.  Then  place  in  the 
dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served. 
Sprinkle  with  powedered  white  sugar, 
and   serve   hot   as   a   sweet   entremet. 

Sweet     Potato     Padding:. 

Ponding    de    Patates    Douces. 

6    Sweet    Potatoes.     3-4    Pound    of    Fine 

Sugar. 

3-4  Pound  of  Butter. 

The  Zest  of  a  Lemon,  Grated  Fine. 

1  Wineglass  of  Good  Brandy. 

1-2    Grated    Nutmeg.     4    Ground    Allspice. 

1   Piece  of  Ground  Cinnamon. 

1  Pint  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

Boil  or  bake  the  potatoes,  peel  and 
press  them  through  a  very  fine  sieve,  the 
finer  the  better.  Add  to  them  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs,  and  beat  well.  Then  add  the 
butter,  beating  well  and  thoroughly,  and 
add  the  sugar  and  milk.  Beat  all  very 
light,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  add  the  grated  nutmeg,  ground 
spices,  and  blend  well  with  the  potatoes. 
Add  finally,  if  desired,  a  wineglassful  of 
good  old  Brandy  or  Whisky,  and  set 
the  pan  with  the  potatoes  in  an  oven, 
and  let  it  bake  for  an  houh.  Place  a 
brown  pa^er  on  top  for  the  first  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  and  take  it  off  at 
the  last  quarter  for  the  frangipane  to 
brown  nicely.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar,   and    serve   hot   or   cold. 

Sweet    Potato     Waffles. 

Gaufres  de  Patates  Douces. 

4   Left-Over  Potatoes. 
Other    Ingredients    in    Proportion    Given. 

This  is  a  good  way  to  utilize  left-over 
potatoes.  To  every  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  mashed  potatoes  add  one  of  butter, 
one  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Beat  all  well  to- 
gether, and  add  one  egg,  well  beaten. 
Bake  in  waffle  iron,  and  serve  with  but- 
ter spread  over. 

Sweet  Potato  Pone. 

Pain   de   Patates   Douces. 

4  Large  Sweet  Potatoes. 

1   Teacupful   of  Borwn  S'ugar. 

1    Teacupful    of    New    Orleans    Molasses. 

1  Teacupful   of  Milk. 

1    Teacupful    of    Butter.     4    Eggs. 

The  Zest  of  One  Lemon,  Grated. 

A  Small  Bit  of  Orange  Peel,  Grated  Very 

Fine. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cloves. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Ground     Cinnamon. 

Grate  the  potatoes  and  the  zest  of  the 
lemon    and    orange.     Beat   the   eggs  well; 


beat  the  butter  and  sugar  till  creamy, 
add  the  eggs,  beat  well,  then  add  the 
grated  potato  and  spices  and  milk;  beat 
all  well  together;  add  the  grated  zest  of 
the  orange  and  lemon,  put  the  mixture  in 
a  well-buttered  pan  and  bake  slowly  for 
about  an  hour.  It  may  be  served  hot 
or  cold  cut  in  slices.  It  is  delicious  when 
served  at  luncheon  cold  with  a  glass  of 
fresh   milk. 

PEPPISrtS. 

Du    Piments. 

More  peppers  are  raised  in  Louisiana 
than  in  any  other  section  of  the  country. 
The  hot  varieties,  or  "Pimentos,"  as  the 
Creoles  call  them,  "Chili,"  "Red  Pepper," 
"Cayenne,"  "Tabasco,"  etc.,  are  used  ex- 
tensively for  seasoning  and  for  making 
our  famous  Creole  pepper  sauces.  The 
mild  varieties,  "Sweet  Peppers,"  or 
"Green  Peppers,"  "Mangoes,"  etc.,  are 
highly  esteemed,  and  are  used  not  only 
in  making  salads,  but  in  other  delightful 
dishes.  The  Creoles  are  famous  for  the 
uses  to  which  they  have  adapted  all 
peppers. 

GREEN     PEPPERS. 

Des  Piments  Verts. 

Green  Peppers  may  be  used  in  salads, 
as  seasonings  for  various  dishes,  or  they 
may  be  stuffed  or  sauted.  For  Green 
Pepper  Salads  see  recipe  under  chapter 
on    'Salads." 

Stuffed    Green    Peppers. 
Piments  Verts  Farcis. 

2  Dozen  Fresh  Green  Peppers. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2  Onion,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

1-2     Inch     of     Boiled     Ham.     1     Clove     of 

Garlic. 

1-2  Cup  of  Bread,  Wet  and  Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

Parboil  one  dozen  of  the  i>eppers.  Then 
take  off  the  skins  and  cut  the  topmost 
tip,  and  clean  the  inside  of  the  peppers, 
throwing  these  seeds  away.  Then  take  a 
dozen  or  more  raw  pept^ers,  cut  off  the 
stalk  or  stem,  and  clean  the  insides  of 
all  seeds,  throwing  the  seeds  away.  Chop 
the  peppers  very  fine,  and  then  put  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  on  the  fire.  Add 
one-half  of  an  onion,  minced  fine,  and 
let  it  brown  slightly  in  the  butter.  Then 
add  the  peppers,  minced  very  fine,  al- 
most mashed  into  a  jelly,  and  the  half 
inch  of  ham,  minced  very  fine.  As  these 
brown  add  the  clove  of  garlic,  minced 
fine,  and  when  the  peppers  are  well 
cooked  add  one-half  a  cup  of  bread  that 
has  been  wet  in  water  and  squeezed 
thoroughly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  let  it  brown.  Add  a  dash  of 
Cayenne  pepper.  When  the  stuffing  is 
well  browned  and  well  seasoned  take 
from  the  stove  and  stuff  the  pepi)ers. 
Sprinkle  a  little  grated  bread  crumbs 
on  top,  and  a  dot  of  butter  on  each  pep- 
per top.  Put  it  in  the  stove,  let  it  brown, 
and  serve  hot  with  meats,  broiled  or 
roasted,   chicken,   etc. 

Green    Pepi»ei'=i     Saiit«d. 

Piments  Verts  Sautes. 

1  Do7en  Large  Green  Peppers. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2  Chopped  Shallots.     2  Sprigs  of  Parsley. 

A  Dash  of  Sweet  Paprika. 

Salt    to    Taste. 

Plunge  the  peppers  into  hc-t  boiling 
fat  and  rub  off  the'  skin.  Then  cut  them 
into    halves    and    cut    off    the    stem    and 


155 


take  out  the  seeds.  Carefully  out  away 
the  ribs  and  let  the  peppers  saute  for 
ten  minutes  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Then  moisten  with  a  pint  of  consomme; 
season  with  the  chopped  shallots,  parsley 
and  sweet  paprika,  and  let  all  cook  slow- 
ly for  a  half  hour,  or  until  done.  Pre- 
pare fancy  slices  of  toast,  and  serve  the 
peppers  on  these  with  a  delicate  garnish 
of  chopped  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

MANGOES. 

Mangos. 
This  is  a  bright,  waxy,  golden-yellow 
sweet  pepper,  very  brilliant  and  hand- 
some, and  exempt  from  fiery  flavor,  and 
may  be  eaten  as  readily  as  an  apple. 
Mangoes  are  generally  served  as  an  ap- 
petizer  (hors  d'oeuvres). 

PUMPKIN. 
Des    Citrouilles — Des    Giraumonts    ou 

Potiron. 
We  have  two  varieties  of  pumpkin  In 
Louisiana,  one  a  large,  immense  globa 
pumpkin,  and  the  other  a  more  delicate 
and  much  more  highly  appreciated  va- 
riety, called  the  Cashaw.  The  former  is 
called  by  the  Creoles  "Citrouille,"  and  the 
latter  "Giraumont,"  or  "Potiron."  Both 
are  cooked  according  to  the  following 
methods: 

Stewed  Pumpkin. 

Citrouille  a  la  Creole 

2   Pints    of  Pumpkin    or   Cashaw. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Ground    Mace. 

1  Teaspoonful    of   Ground    Cinnamon. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Ground   Cloves. 

2  Gills   of  Good   Whisky   or   Brandy. 
Cut  the  pumpkin  into  halves  and  then 

into  quarters,  and  pare.  Then  cut  it 
into  pieces  of  about  one  inch  square. 
Place  them  all  In  a  deep  pot,  and  add 
sufficient  water  to  cover.  Let  the  pump- 
kin stew  slowly  for  about  an  hour,  stir- 
ring frequently  to  prevent  burning.  Then 
take  out  of  the  pot,  press  through  a 
colander,  and  set  back  on  the  stove.  Add, 
for  every  pint  of  pumpkin,  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  one  of  ground  mace, 
one  of  ground  cinnamon  and  one  of 
ground  allspice.  A  gill  of  good  Whisky 
or  Brandy  may  be  added,  and  improves 
the  flavor.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  and  add 
sugar  to  taste.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  for 
half  an  hour  longer,  and  serve  hot  with 
daubes,  Grillades  a  la  Sauce,  etc.  If  the 
pumpkin  cooks  till  very  tender,  so  that 
it  mashes  easily,  it  need  not  be  pressed 
through  a  colander. 

If  the  Citrouille,  or  large  pumpkin,  is 
used,  never  cook  all  in  one  day.  Cut  it 
In  half,  and  save  the  other  half  for  some 
other  day  in  the  week.  The  Cashaw  will 
depend  on  the  size  Generally  one  Is 
cooked  at  a  time.  Left-over  pumpkin 
can  be  utilized  In  making  pumpkin  pie. 
(See  recipe.) 

Baked    Pumpkin. 
Giraumont    Rotl. 

2  Pints    of   Pumpkin    or  Cashaw. 
A  Dressing  of  Butter  or  Gravy. 

Cut  the  pumpkin  in  halves  and  then 
into  quarters.  Two  quarters  are  enough 
for  a  family  of  six,  if  the  pumpkin  Is 
large.  Remove  the  seeds,  but  do  not  peel 
tbe  rind.  Place  in  a  baking  pan  with 
the  rind  downwards,  and  bake  until  so 
tender  that  it  may  be  pierced  easily  with 
a  fork.  Serve  in  the  rind  at  the  table, 
helping  it  by  spoonfuls.  It  is  eaten  with 
butter  or  gravy. 


BADISSES. 

Des  Radls. 
Radishes  are  eaten  as  a  relish,  or  hors 
d'oeuvres.     They     are     great     appetizers, 
and  help  the  digestion. 

There  is  an  art  in  preparing  the  radish 
properly  for  the  table.  Cut  the  tops  and 
save  them  for  Gumbo  aux  Herbes.  Throw 
the  radishes  into  a  bucket  of  cold  water 
and  wash  well.  Have  at  hand  another 
bucket  of  water.  Cut  the  remaining  tops 
about  an  inch  from  the  body  of  the 
radish,  so  that  only  the  dainty  green  will 
appear.  Hold  the  radish  by  the  top  root, 
upwards,  and  cut  the  skin  downwards  in 
tour  or  six  parts,  without  detaching  the 
radish  from  the  stalk.  In  other  words, 
open  as  you  would  an  orange,  without 
breaking  to  pieces.  Throw  "the  radishes 
into  the  fresh  bucket  of  cold  water,  and 
in  about  fifteen  minutes  they  will  have 
opened  like  a  rose,  and  the  effect  of  the 
white  against  the  red  is  very  pretty.  Fill 
glass  bowls  with  these,  using  taste  in  ar- 
ranging, and  you  will  not  only  have  a 
very  dainty  dish,  as  far  as  a  relish  is 
concerned,  but  a  pretty  table  decoration. 
Another  way  is  to  scrape  the  radish 
in  spots  or  lengths,  alternating  so  that 
there  will  be  a  streak  of  red  and  one  of 
white.  The  radish  is  not  cut  open  In  this 
case.  Either  way  is  pretty  and  inviting, 
if  properly  done.  One  or  two  dainty 
leaves  may  be  left  near  the  stalk  to  im- 
prove the  appearance  of  the  dish. 

Radishes   may   be    served   at   breakfast, 
dinner    or    luncheon.     The    horseradish    Is 
used  as  an  appetizer,  and  also  in  sauces. 
BOQUEri'F. 
Roquette. 
This    is    a    salad    vegetable,    resembling 
Cress    in   taste.     It   is    served    as   a    salad 
in  the  same  manner,  and  is  very  popular 
with  the  Creoles. 

SAI.SIFr,  OB  OTSTEB  PLANT. 
Salsifis. 
All  recipes  given  for  cooking  parsnips 
may  be  applied  to  Salsify,  which,  by  the 
way,  is  considered  the  most  delicate  of 
the  two,  both  belonging  to  the  same  or- 
der. Salsify  partakes  somewhat  of  the 
flavor  of  oysters,  hence  the  name  "Oyster 
Plant."     (See  Parsnips.) 

Oyster  Plant  a  la  Creme. 
Salsifis  a  la  Creme. 
A  Bunch   of  Fresh  Oyster  Plant. 
1-2  Pint  of  Cream   Sauce. 
Wash  and  scrape  the  roots  of  the  plant 
thoroughly.     Then   throw    them   into    cold 
water    Immediately    as   you    scrape    them, 
or  they  will   turn   black   and   appear  un- 
palatable.   Have   ready   a   kettle   of   boil- 
ing   water,    and    cook    for    an    hour,    or 
longer,  till  tender.     Drain  and  serve  with 
a  Cream  Sauce  poured  over.     (See  recipe 
Cream   Sauce.) 

Oyster  Plant  a  la  roulette. 

Salsifis   a   la  Poulette. 

A  Bunch   of  Salsify  or  Oyster  Plant. 

1-2  Pint  of  Sauce  a  la  Poulette. 
Prepare  exactly  as  in  the  manner  Indi- 
cated above,  using  instead  of  the  Cream 
Sauce  a  Sauce  a  la  Poulette. 

Oyster    Plant    Sauted    In    Butter. 

Salsifis  Sautes  au   Beurre. 

A    Good   Bunch   of   Oyster  Plant. 

4   Tablespoonfuls   Of  Vinegar. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

A   Tablespoonful   of   Salt. 

The  Juice  of  1   L*mon. 

A  Teaspoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley. 

A  Pinch  of  Black  Pepper. 


156 


Scrape  the  oyster  plant  well  and  throw 
into  cold  water,  into  which  put  two  ta- 
blesp'Oonfuls  of  vinegar  to  prevent  the 
salsify  from  turning  black.  Take  from 
the  water,  drain  and  cut  into  pieces  one 
and  a  half  inches  in  length.  Put  into 
a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar  and  flour  well  mixed  and  cover 
with  a  quart  of  cold  water.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  cover  well  and  let  boil 
slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Drain  and  return  to  the  saucepan  and 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  but- 
ter, the  pepper,  chopped  parsley,  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  black  pepper. 
Mix  well  and  let  it  heat  for  five  minutes, 
tossing  almost  constantly.  Put  into  a 
deep  dish   and   serve  hot. 

Salsify    Fritter. 

Salsifis    en    Beignets. 

A  Bunch  of  Salsify. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Cup    of    Water.     2    Eggs. 

1-4    Pound    of    Flour.     1    Teaspoonful    of 

Salt. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Pepper. 

Clean  and  scrape  the  salsify  and  boll 
as  directed  in  recipe  Boiled  Parsnips  (see 
recipe)  till  very  tender.  Then  cut  into 
long,  narrow  strips.  .Make  a  batter  by 
mixing  the  flour  with  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  well.  Then  add  the  salt  and 
pepper,  and  gradually  one  cup  of  water, 
till  it  is  absorbed.  Then  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix 
thoroughly.  Add  the  salsify  to  the  bat- 
ter. Dip  out  one  spoon  at  a  time  of  the 
batter,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Serve  as 
an  entree  at  dinner. 

SPINACH. 

Des   Epinards. 

Spinach  is  one  of  the  healthiest  of  vege- 
tables, but,  unfortunately.  It  is  generally 
so  badly  prepared  by  the  majority  of 
cooks  as  to  be  not  only  most  unrelisha.- 
ble,  but  unsavory  as  well.  The  great  art 
In  cooking  Spinach  is  to  cook  it  just  long 
enough  and  no  longer,  to  drain  thor- 
oughly and  to  have  it  of  just  such  con- 
sistency as  will  enable  it  to  retain  a  neat 
shape  when  arranged  on  a  dish  in  mound 
shape.  The  most  importaTit  point  in  cook- 
ing Spinash  is  to  drain  it  perfectly  dry 
the  moment  it  is  taken  from  the  fire. 
It  allowed  to  cook  too  long,  it  loses  Us 
color.  If  it  stands  In  the  water  it  be- 
comes tasteless.  The  following  are  the 
Creole  methods  of  serving  Spinach.  It 
is  one  of  the  cheaipest  of  all  dishes  served 
among  the  Creoles,  and  a  very  go^od  dish, 
too. 

Spinach,  PIn.:n   Bolted. 

Epinards   au   Nature!. 

1-2  Peck  of  Fresh  Young  Spinach. 

1    Cupful    of   Water.     1    Tablespoonful    of 

Butter. 

Always  select  young  and  tender  spin- 
ach. Carefully  pick  it  over,  and  reject 
all  wilted  leaves  and  coarse  fibers  and 
nerves.  Cut  off  the  roots.  W^ash  and 
drain  it  well  in  cold  water,  and  press 
out  all  the  water.  It  will  take  about  halt 
a  peck,  or  four  pints,  to  make  a  good 
dish,  as  it  boils  down.  Put  the  spinach 
in  a  kettle,  and  add  one  cupful  of  water. 
Place  on  a  moderate  fire  and  let  it  utm- 
mer  tor  ten  minutes.  As  soon  as  it  ap- 
pears to  wilt  take  oft  the  tire,  for  that 
is  all  the  cooking  that  is  needed.  Then 
drain  the  spinach  of  all  water  through 
a  colander,  and  then  press  through  a 
^'ery   fine  sieve,  to  drain   off  the  remain- 


ing water  from  the  vegetable.  Chop  the 
spinach  very  fine.  Then  put  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and 
add  the  spinach  to  it.  Stir  well.  Add  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  water,  just  sufficient 
to  thin,  if  a  little  thick,  anfi  let  it  heat 
thoroughly.  Otherwise,  if  of  the  right 
consistency,  no  water  need  be  added. 
Good  judgment  must  here  prevail.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

At  this  point  the  spinach  may  be  served 
in  various  ways,  as  Spinach  a  la  Creme, 
Spinach  au  .Tus,  Spinach  with  Hard- 
Bolled  Eggs,  Spinach  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel, 
etc.  The  plain  boiled  spinach  may  be 
served  with  vinegar  as  a  salad.  (See  re- 
cipe under  chapter   on   Salads.) 

Spinach    a   la   Creme. 

Epinards  a  la  Creme. 

1-2  Peck  of  Spinach.     1  Cupful  of  Water. 
1    Tablespoonful   of    Butter.    1   Table- 
spoonful of  Powdered  Sugar. 
6  Croutons. 
A    Cream    Sauce. 

Prepare  the  spinach  as  above.  When 
ready  lo  take  from  the  saucepan,  have 
ready  slices  of  buttered  toast,  or  Crou- 
tons fried  in  butter.  Roll  the  Croutons 
in  sugar  before  frying.  Heap  the  spinach 
in  little  mounds  upon  them,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  sugar,  and  pour  over  a 
Cream  Sauce  (see  Cream  Sauce),  and 
serve    hot. 

Spinach    au    Jns    :*   la    Bourgeois^. 

Epinards  au  Jus  a  la  Bourgeoise. 

1-2   Peck   of   St>lnach. 

2   Hard-Boiled   or  Poached   Eggs. 

1  Cup  of  Gravy  or  Consomme. 

Boil  the  spinach  according  to  the 
above  recipe.  When  ready  to  take  from 
the  saucepan,  after  adding  the  butter  and 
seasonings,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  and 
pour  over  a  cup  of  roast  beef  gravy-*  or 
consomme,  let  it  cook  for  twenty  minutes, 
and   serve  hot. 

Spinach    With    Hard-Bolled    Eggi. 

Epinards  aux  Oeufs  Durs. 

1-2  Peck  of  Spinach. 

1    Cupful    of    Water.     1    Tablespoonful   ot 

Butter. 

3  Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

Boil  the  spinach  and  prepare  to  the 
point  indicated  in  recipe  for  Spinach 
(Plain  Boiled).  Then  take  the  spinach 
from  the  saucepan,  and  arrange  In  a 
mound  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Spinach  »  la   Mnltre  d'Hotel. 

Epinards  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

1-2  Peck  of  Spinach.     1  Cupful  of  Water. 

1    Tablespoonful    ot   Butter.     A    Sauce 
a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Prepare  the  spinch  as  directed  in  recipa 
Plain  Boiled  Spinach.  Pour  over  a 
Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel,  cook  a  few 
minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

Spinach    a   la    Cuisinlere. 

Epinards   a   la   Cuisinlere. 
1-2   Peck    of   Spinach.    1-2    Tablespoonful 

ot  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  ot  Flour.     1  Cup  of  Milk. 

6   Toasted  Croutons. 

Prepare  the  spinach  as  above,  hash 
fine,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
mixed   with   a   cup   ot  milk  and  a   spoon 


157 


of  melted  butter,  and  serve  with  toasted 
dice  Croutons  on  the  spinach. 
BEET    TOPS,    RADISH    TOPS,    TUItNIP 
TOPS,    ETC. 

Never  throw  away  any  beet,  turnip  or 
radish  tops.  They  may  all  be  coolced  in 
the  same  manner  as  spinafih  au  jus,  or 
they  may  be  coolced  with  salt  meat,  and 
malte  very  good  and  healthy,  dishes.  The 
humble  Creole  families  in  New  Orleans 
prepare  turnip  tops  and  beet  tops  in  such 
a  way  that  a  king  might  not  disdain  what 
is  commonly  held  as  kitchen  refuse. 

All  these  may  be  made  Into  nice  purees. 
(See  recipe   for  making  Purees.) 

SOBBEIi. 

De    I'Oseille. 

Sorrel  is  used  for  various  purposes  in 
the  kitchen.  It  is  made  into  soups  and 
purees,  served  as  a  salad,  or  cooked  in 
exactly  the  same  manner  as  in  the  recipe 
for  cooking  spinach.  (See  recipes  Spin- 
ach.) 

Puree   of    Sorrel. 

Puree  d'Oseille. 

In  preparing  S'orrel  after  this  recipe, 
make  a  puree,  to  be  served  as  a  vegeta- 
ble or  as  a  soup.  (See  recipe.)  A  vege- 
table puree  is,  of  course,  of  far  denser 
consistency  than  a  puree  intended  for 
soup. 

Sorrel    au    Gras. 

Oseille   au   Gras. 

Prepare  the  sorrel  in  exactly  the  same 
mianner  as  spinach,  or  "Epinards  au 
Jus."  (See  recipe).  Reject  all  fibrous 
portions.  After  you  have  scalded  it,  it 
is  important  to  drain  thoroughly.  Then 
chop  and  press  through  a  colander. 
Garnish  nicely  with  Croutons  fried  in 
butter. 

Sorrel  is  very  acid,  and  to  those  who 
do  not  like  much  acidity,  this  may  be 
modified  by  mingling  with  equal  parts  of 
spinach   or  lettuce. 

Sorrel  au  Maigre. 

Oseille  au  Maigre. 
Prepare  exactly  as  above,  only,  instead 
Tof   using   broth    or    gravy,   add   milk   and 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

SQUASH. 

Courge. 

3    Young    Squash.     2    Tablespoonfuls    of 

Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Cut  the  squash  into  quarters  and  pare 
and  remove  the  seeds.  Then  cut  into 
small  squares  of  about  an  inch.  "Wash 
in  cold  water,  and  then  put  into  a  por- 
celain-lined or  agate  saucepan,  and  half 
cover  with  water,  for  squash  is  a  watery 
vegetable.  Let  it  simmer  gently  for  about 
twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  Then 
drain  through  a  colander,  pressing  gent- 
ly. Mash  the  squash  very  fine  after 
draining,  and  return  to  the  saucepan; 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  stir  until 
thoroughly  heated,  and  it  begins  to  sim- 
mer gently.  Do  not  cease  stirring  or  it 
will   burn.    S'erve   hot. 

TOMATOES. 
Des   Tomates. 

Like  the  onion,  tomatoes  are  among  the 
indispensable  adjuncts  of  good  cooking, 
entering,  as  they  do,  so  much  into  the 
good  seasoning  and  delicate  flavoring  of 


various  dishes.  They  are  also  excellent 
in  salads.  (See  Salads.)  Tomatoes,  how- 
ever, form  very  dainty  dishes,  when 
cooked,  and  among  tliese  are  the  follow- 
ing: 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Tomates    Sautees. 

12  Tomatoes.     1  Tablespoonful   of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Sugar.    1  Onion. 
1-2    Cup    of    Bread    Crumbs.     1    Inch    of 

Ham. 

Salt   and   Pepper   and   Cayenne   to    Taste. 

1   Sprig  Each  of  Thyme,  Parsley  and 

Bay,  Leaf. 

Scald  the  tomatoes,  and  let  the  water 
remain  over  them  about  five  minutes. 
Then  peel  the  tomatoes,  slipping  the 
skins  off  easily,  and  cut  them  into  small 
pieces.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into 
a  saucepan,  and  as  it  melts  add  the 
onion,  which  you  will  have  chopped  very 
fine.  Let  it  brown,  and  add  one  inch  of 
ham,  chopped  very  fine.  Then  add  the 
tomatoes,  and  let  them  brown,  slowly 
adding  in  the  meantime  a  half  cup  of 
dry  bread  crumbs.  Let  all  simmer  gently 
and  add  one  sprig  each  of  thyme,  parsley 
and  bay  leaf.  Stew  gently  for  an  hour 
longer,  and  serve  hot. 

Broiled   Tomatoes. 

Tomates    Grillees. 

6  Tomatoes.     2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Chopped   Parsley. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Take  six  tomatoes  and  cut  them  In 
halves  on  the  cross.  Do  not  peel.  Put 
them  on  the  broiler  and  broil  on  a  slow 
fire  till  tender.  Turn  the  broiler  from 
one  side  to  the  other  often,  to  prevent 
burning.  In  about  ten  minutes  they  will 
be  done.  Put  on  a  hot  dish;  put  a  little 
melted  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  on  each,  and 
serve   hot. 

Fried    Tomatoes. 

Tomates    Frites. 

6    Nice,    Large,    Firm    Tomatoes. 

1    Egg.     1-2    Cup    of    Bread    Crumbs. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lard. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  very  thin,  and  then 
dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  egg 
very  light.  Dip  the  tomatoes  first  in 
this  and  then  in  the  bread  crumbs,  and 
drop  into  the  lard,  covering  the  bottom 
of  the  pan.  When  brown  on  'one  side, 
turn  on  the  other.  Turn  carefully  with 
the  cake  turner  into  a  heated  dish.  Keep 
warm  while  you  are  frying  the  rest,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

Tomatoes    au    Gratin. 

Tomates  au  Gratin. 

6  Tomatoes.     2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Butter. 

1   Cup    of   Grated   Bread   Crumbs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Scald  and  skin  the  tomatoes.  Then 
place  a  layer  of  them  at  the  bottom  of 
a  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  spread  very  thick,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dots 
of  butter  at  intervals.  Continue  in  this 
way  till  the  last  Jayer  is  reached,  finish- 
ing with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
sprinkle  with,  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with 
butter,  and  put  in  an  oven  to  bake  for 
an  hour  and  a  quarter.  (I!anned  toma- 
toes will  require  about  half  this  time. 


158 


Scalloped    Tomatoes. 

Tomates    en    Coquilles. 

6   Tomatoes.     1   Cup  of  Grated   Bread 

Crumbs. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Proceed  exactly  as  above,  only  bake 
the  tomatoes  in  layers  in  small  cups  or 
silver  shells. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Tomates    Farcies. 

6    Tomatoes.     1    Tablespoonful    of   Butter. 
1    Cup    of    Wet    Bread,    Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne  to  Taste. 

1   Clove  of   Garlic    (if   desired).    1   Onion. 

1-4  Tnch   of  Ham. 

Wash  the  tomatoes,  selecting  fine, 
large,  smooth  ones  for  this  purpose. 
Either  cut  the  tomato  in  two,  or  else 
cut  one  slice  from  the  stem  end.  Scoop 
out  the  inside  of  the  tomaio,  and  put  it 
In  a  dish  and  save  the  skins.  Take  one 
onion  and  one  quarter  of  an  inch  of  ham 
and  chop  very  fine.  Put  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  add  the 
onion,  letting  it  brown  nicely.  Then  add 
the  ham.  Let  it  brown.  Add  the  insides 
of  the  tomatoes,  and  then  add,  almost 
instantly,  a  cup  of  bread  that  has  been 
wet  and  squeezed.  Beat  all  well  together 
as  it  fries,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Let  it  cook  well,  and  then  take 
off,  and  stuff  the  tomatoes,  cut  in  halves 
or  whole.  The  former  is  the  daintier 
way.  Sprinkle  the  tops  with  bread  crumbs 
and  dot  with  butter.  Place  in  the  oven 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  till  brown, 
and  serve  hot  with  filet  of  beef  or 
chicken,   etc. 

Stuffed    Tomatoes    a    la     (Jroolo. 

Tomates   Farcies  a   la  Creole. 

1-4    Pound    of   the    White    Meat    of    a 

Chicken. 

2  Inches  of  Ham. 

1    Egg.    1    Tablespoonful    of    Parsley. 

1    Onion,    Minced    Fine.     1-2    Cup    Bread 

Crumbs. 

Thyme  and  Bay  Leaf. 

Salt,    Pepper    and    Cayenne    to    Taste. 

Chop  the  chicken  meat  very  fine.  Cut 
the  tomatoes  into  halves,  and  scoop  out 
the  insides  without  breaking  the  outer 
skins.  Take  the  inside  meat  and  chop 
fine.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into 
the  saucepan,  and  as  it  melts  add  the 
chopped  onion,  and  let  it  brown.  After 
a  few  minutes  add  the  ham  and  chicken, 
and  let  these  brown.  Then  add  the  to- 
matoes, and,  as  they  brown,  the  bread 
crumbs.  Add  the  minced  herbs  and  a 
clove  of  garlic,  if  desired.  (The  garlic 
must  be  added  before  the  tomatoes,  if  it 
be  used.)  Let  all  simmer  gently.  Season 
to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  Cayenne  When  well  cooked,  remove 
from  the  fire,  when  about  the  consistency 
of  thick  starch.  Let  it  cool  slightly,  and 
then  stuff  each  tomato  shell.  Sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  grated  on  top,  and  dot  with 
butter.  Place  in  the  oven  for  about  half 
an  hO'ur,  and  serve  as  an  entremet  with 
chicken    or  veal. 

Tomato    Salad. 

Tomates    en    Salade. 

See   recipe    under   chapter    on    Salads. 

Puree  of  Tomnvo. 

Puree  de  Tomates. 

See    recipe    under    chapter    on    Soups. 


TURNIPS. 

Des  Navets. 

Turnips  are  largely  used,  like  the  to- 
mato and  onion,  though  not  to  such  an 
extent,  in  seasoning  food  substances. 
They  are  indispensable  with  the  pot-au- 
feu,  the  bouillon,  or  the  well-made  con- 
somme. 


Mashed    Xurnti<s, 
Puree   de   Navets. 


6    Turnips.     2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Wash  and  pare  the  turnips,  and  cut 
them  into  quarters,  and  cover  with  boll- 
mg  water  and  boil  until  very  tender 
which  will  be  in  about  thirty  to  forty- 
five  minutes,  according  to  the  tenderness 
of  the  turnips.  If  you  boil  them  whole  It 
will  take  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  If  you 
cut  the  turnips  as  soon  as  tender  take 
out  of  the  water  and  drain  through  a 
colander  of  all  water.  Then  press  them 
lightly,  to  squeeze  all  remaining  water 
out,  and  hash  well.  Add  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
serve  hot. 

Turnips  may  be  mixed  with  equal 
quantities  of  potatoes,  mashed  and  but- 
tered. 

Plain   Boilel   Turnliis. 

Navets    Bouillis    au    Naturel. 

6    Turnii>s.     A    Drawn    Butter    Sauce. 

Boil  the  turnips  whole,  selecting  very 
tender  ones.  They  will  require  about  -an 
hour  of  boiling.  Always  use  hot  water 
in  putting  on  the  turnips.  Drain  off 
water,  when  tender,  and  serve  with  a 
Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  pepper  and  salt. 
Serve  with  roast  beef,  mutton  or  roast 
duck. 

Creamed  Turnliis. 

Navets  a  la  Creme. 
6  Turnips.  A  Cream  Sauce. 
Cut  large  turnips  in  quarters  for  this 
dish.  Small  ones  may  be  boiled  whole. 
When  tender,  drain  and  put  into  a  colan- 
der and  press  out  all  water.  Then  make 
a  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  recipe)  and  pour 
over  the  turnips.  Serve  with  boiled  leg 
of  mutton,  either  by  placing  the  turnips 
around  the  leg  of  mutton  on  the  dish 
and  pouring  the  sauce  over,  or  separate, 
as    a    vegetable. 

Turnips   Baked   With   Mutton. 

Mouton   Roti  aux  Navets. 

6  Turnips.     Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 
Roast   Mutton   Drippings. 

Boil  the  turnips  until  nearly  tender. 
Then  drain  in  a  colander.  If  very  large, 
cut  in  quarters;  if  small,  let  them  re- 
main uncut.  Lay  them  on  the  pan,  around 
the  roasting  leg  of  mutton,  and  let  them 
bake  about  an  hour,  basting  frequently 
with  the  drippings  from  the  mutton. 
When  done,  place  around  the  leg  of 
mutton  as  a  garnish,  and  serve. 

O  lazed    Turnips. 

Navets  Glaces. 

6  Turnips  of  Uniform  Size. 

1     Tablespoonful     of     Sugar.    1     Cup    of 

Water. 

1  Large  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Salt  to  Taste. 

Select  fine,  small  and  tender  turnips 
of  uniform  size,  top  the  heads  and  the 
stems,  and  remove  the  skins,  but  not  too 


159 


closely,  lest  they  should  break  up  when 
boiling.  Then  take  a  trying  pan  large 
enough  for  the  turnips  to  lie  in  It,  side 
by  side.  Put  the  butter  in  first,  and 
when  melted  add  the  turnips.  Then 
sprinkle  with  the  sugar  and  water,  and 
season  with  salt  to  taste.  Set  on  the 
back  of  the  stove,  where  they  can  sim- 
mer gently  for  an  hour.  When  nearly 
done,  and  tender  all  through,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  mixed  in  water,  blend- 
ed well.  Then  set  in  the  oven,  with  a 
paper  on  top.  Let  them  stand  for  about 
half  an  hour  and  use  as  a  garnish  for 
beef,  veal,  etc.  The  turnips  will  be  nice- 
ly glazed,  and  will  make  the  dish  ap- 
pear very  beautiful. 

Turnips   fried   Iji    Butter. 

Navets    Sautes    au    Beurre. 

6    Turnips.     2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  turnips  according  to  direc- 
tions, and,  when  very  tender,  drain  in  a 
colander.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter into  a  frying  pan,  and  when  it  is 
hot  add  the  turnips.  ■  Season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  ana,  wnen  nicely 
browned,  dish  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve 
with   roast   ducks. 

Boiled    Turnip   Tops   »   la   Creole. 

Navets  a  la  Creole. 

1-4  Peck  of  Turnip  Greens. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt  and  a  Pound   of 

Fresh  Pork  or  1  Pound  of  Salt  Pork. 

Pepper   to   Taste. 

Wash  the  turnip  tops,  and  put  into  a 
kStle  of  boiling  water  with  a  piece  of 
fresh  or  salt  pork.  Let  them  boil  slowly 
till  tender,  and  then  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  When  tender,  take  out 
and  chop,  but  not  too  fine,  or  leave  them 
just  as  they  are.  Drain  of  all  water, 
and  serve  as  you  would  boiled  cabbage, 
piling:  the  turnip  tops  around  the  dish, 
and  the  salt  meat  or  pork  in  the  center. 

Again,  the  Creoles  boil  the  white  tur- 
nips with  the  greens,  cutting  the  former 
portions  into  quarters  or  semi-quarters, 
according  to  their  size,  and  chopping  the 
greens  after  cooking.  Eat  with  pepper 
vinegar,  as  you  -would  boiled  cabbage. 

TBTTFirl^US. 

Des  Truffes. 

The  Truffle  is  a  most  expensive  vegeta- 
ble. It  belongs  to  the  family  of  Mush- 
rooms, and  is  a  subterranep,n  production, 
of  a  fishy,  fungous  structure  and  round- 
ish figure.  Its  aroma  is  particularly 
niarked,  and  it  is  much  esteemed  by  epi- 
cures, for,  when  mixed  in  proper  pro- 
portions, it  adds  a  zest  and  flavor  to  all 
sauces  for  Fish,  Filets  of  Beef,  Turkey, 
Chicken,  Game  and  Omelets  that  cannot 
be  found  in  any  other  plant  in  the  enk- 
tire  vegetable  kingdom.  The  name 
"Truffle"  is  supposed  to  bs  derived  from 
the  French  "Truffe,"  or  the  Spanish 
"Trufa,"  signifying'  deceit  or  imposition, 
the  growth  of  the  plant  underground 
seeming  to   accord  with  the  name. 

Truffles  come  prepared  in  cans,  being 
put  up  in  France,  those  of  "Perigord" 
being  the  brand  most  in  use;  The  Cre- 
oles use  Truffles  mostly  as  a  condiment 
for  fish,  meats,  stuffings  for  poultry, 
game,  etc.  They  are  very  expensive,  cost- 
ing as  much  as  $3  a  can,  and  a  small 
can  at  that.  In  cooking  filets,  they  are 
prepared  simply  "Truffee."  or  whole  or 
cut  in  halves,  or  "a  la  Perigueux,"  that 
is,  the  Truffles  are  cut  or  minced  very 
fine.     They     are    also     served     after    the 


following    manner    as    entremets    or    hors 
d'oeuvres; 

Truffles  in   Sp<inii*li  Style. 

Truffes  a  I'Espagnole. 

10  Truffles. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Salad   Oil   or  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Minced    Parsley. 

3  Finely  Minced   Shallots. 

3    Sprigs    of    Minced    Parsley. 

1-2  Glass  of  White   Wine.     Sauce   Espag- 

nole. 

Slice  the  Truffles  very  fine,  and  place 
in  a  saucepan  on  a  slow  fire,  with  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter  or  two  of  oil,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  the  minced  pars- 
ley and  shallots.  After  letting  them 
smother  for  a  few  minutes,  moisten  well 
with  the  White  wine  or  Champagne  and 
a  Sauce  Espagnole,  using  equal  propor- 
tions of  the  wine  and  sauce.  Quicken 
the  fire  slightly,  and  let  them  cook  slow- 
ly till  done.  Skim  off  all  grease,  and 
serve  hot  with  ragouts,  etc. 

Truffles  With  Olia^iiriasnc. 

Truffes  au  Vin  de  Champagne. 

6    Truffles.     1    Glass    of    Champagne. 

Make  a  "Marinade,"  that  is  a  liquor 
with  spices  and  vinegar;  set  to  cook,  and 
add  a  glass  of  Champagne.  Add  the 
Truffles,  and  season  again  to  taste.  Let 
all  cook  for  .upwards  of  half  an  hour. 
Then  take  the  Truffles  from  the  sauce. 
Let  them  cool,  and  serve  on  a  folded 
napkin  as  an  hors  d'oeuvre. 

Truffles    on    Minced    Toast. 

Truffes    en    Croustades. 

4    Truffles.     2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter 
1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

Prepare  the  Truffles  as  in  the  recipe 
"a  I'Espagnole,"  or  simply  "a  la  Proven- 
cale,"  that  is,  slice  them  very  fine,  let 
them  stew  or  saute  them  in  butter,  and 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
the  clove  of  a  garlic  minced  very  fine. 
When  dofte,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Take  some  slices  of  bread,  cut  in  fancy 
shapes,  and  fry  in  butter,  or  toast.  Cover 
each  piece  with  some  of  the  Ragout  of 
Truffles,  and  serve  hot. 

VEGETABLE    PEAR. 

,,,  Mirliton. 

The  Vegetable  Pear,  or  "Mirliton,"  as 
the  Creoles  have  named  this  vegetable, 
belongs  to  the  gourd  family.  It  is  known 
to  botanists  by  the  name  of  the  "One- 
Seeded  Cucumber."  Like  almost  all  the 
gourds,  the  plant  is  a  vine,  and  is  trained 
by  the  Creoles  upon  trellis,  fences  or 
arbors  around  their  homes.  It  is  not 
only  a  very  ornamental  vine,  but  an 
abundant  bearer.  The  fruit,  if  properly 
prepared,  as  the  Creoles  know  so  well 
how  to  prepare  it,  is  a  delightful  dish, 
and  is  of  a  very  viuch  finer  flavor  than 
eggplants,  squcishes  or  pumpkins.  It  may 
be  cooked  in  a  half  dozen  ways,  stuffed 
and  stewed  and  fried,  as  the  eggplant 
(see  recipes),  or  stewed  or  oaked,  like  the 
pumpkin,  squash  or  cashaw.  It  is  par- 
ticularly fine  when  prepared  like  stewed 
cashaw.  (See  recipe.)  It  may  also  be 
made  into  fritters,  like  eggplants,  or 
baked  cakes.  In  any  way  that  it  is 
served  it  is  delicious,  and  is  a  great 
favorite  with  the  Creoles,  especially  tha 
little   children. 


160 


MELONS. 

T>es    Melons. 

The  New  Orleans  market  cannot  be  ex- 
cellecl  by  any  market  in  the  world  in  the 
splendor  and  variety  of  the  Melons  found 
in  the  beginning  of  the  summer,  and  till 
late  in  the  fall,  in  its  great  market  stalls 
and  fruit  stalls,  which  intersect  every 
portion  of  the  city.  Especially  is  this 
the  case  with  the  .Muskmelon  or  Canta- 
loup. No  Northern  variety  of  melons 
can  compare  with  our  special  varieties, 
and  it  is  familiarly  said  that  it  requires 
Louisiana  sun  to  bring  the  seed  to  per- 
fection. Muskmelons  and  "Watermelons 
are  among  our  most  common  articles  of 
food,  and  are  within  the  reach  of  all 
classes,  rich  and  poor,  white  and  black, 
in  season.  The  Creoles  serve  Melons  both 
as  a   fruit  and  a  dessert. 

MUSKMELON. 

Cantaloup. 

Muskmelons,  or  Cantaloups,  are  cul- 
tivated extensively  in  the  vjcmity  of  New 
Orleans.  The  quality  is  fine,  and  the 
flavor  delicious.  They  are  served  by  the 
Creoles  both  as  a  fruit  and  as  a  dessert — 
as  a  fruit  at  the  beginning  of  breakfast, 
and  as  a  dessert  at  the  close  of  luncheon 
or  dinner.  The  melon  is  always  served 
very  cold,  being  kept  on  ice  several  hours 
before  serving,  and  when  cut  in  halves 
and  cleansed  of  seed,  crushed  ice  is 
placed  within  each  half,  and  it  is  brought 
to  the  table  and  served.  It  is  a  most  re- 
freshing accompaniment  to  breakfast,  at 
which  meal  it  is  more  generally  served. 

WATERMELON. 

Melon    d'Eau. 

The  "Watermelon  is  as  great  a  favorite 
among  the  Creoles  for  luncheon  and  din- 
ner and  supper  desserts  as  the  Musk- 
melon  is  a  general  breakfast  and  lunch- 
eon favorite.  Indeed,  at  all  hours  during 
the  summer,  except  in  the  early  forenoon, 
a  watermelon  is  considered  in  place  as  a 
mO'st  refreshing  and  welcome  summer 
offering.  "Watermelons  are  kept  on  ice 
continually  by  fruit  dealers,  and  when- 
ever a  family  chooses  to  have  a  "Melon 
on  ice"  they  have  simply  to  send  to  the 
fruit  stand,  within  a  radius  of  a  square, 
and  a  splendid  rosv-fruited  melon  is  to 
be  had,  cold  and  delicious,  and  just  ready 
to  be  c"t.  The  Creoles,  as  a  rule,  cut 
the  melon   in    great   round   slices,  so  that 


each  person  may  have  a  piece  of  "the 
heart"  of  the  fruit ;  or  it  may  be  cut 
in  lengthwise  slices,  according  to  taste. 
The  new-fangled  practice  of  "scooping 
the  melon  out  with  a  spoon,"  and  thus 
serving  it,  is  disregarded  by  the  Creoles. 
The  only  proper  way  to  eat  a  melon  and 
enjoy  it  is  in  the  good  old  Creole  style: 
Give  every  guest  a  fine  round  slice,  glow- 
ing with  "a  heart  of  red,"  and  thus  will 
the  fruit  be  enjoyed  as  it  deserves. 
GARDEN     HERBS. 

The  old-time  garden  herbs  are  part  of 
every  well-regulated  Creole  kitchen  gar- 
den. Thyme,  Sage,  Rosemary,  Mint, 
Sweet  Marjoram,  Basil,  Lavender,  Anise, 
Carraway,  Bene,  Borage,  Catnip,  Corian- 
der, Dill,  Fennel,  Horehound,  Pot  Mari- 
gC'ld,  Pennyroyal,  Rue,  Summer  Savory, 
Tansy,  Tarragon,  "Wormwood — all  these 
thrive  in  our  gardens,  ana  are  used  by 
the  Creole  housewives,  some  for  culinary, 
others  for  medicinal  purposes.  "The 
Bouquet  Garni,"  or  herb  bouquet,  has 
already  been  spoken  of  in  the  beginning 
of  this  book.  To  prepare  such  herbs  as 
Sage,  Thyme,  Summer  Savory,  Mint, 
Basil,  or  any  of  the  sweet  or  medicinal 
herbs,  for  winter  usft,  the  Creole  house- 
wife gathers  them  from  her  own  little 
garden  patch  when  they  are  fresh  in 
their  season,  or  she  procures  them  from 
the  markets.  After  examining  them  well, 
and  discarding  all  poor  or  sickly-looking 
sprigs,  she  washes  and  shakes  the  herbs. 
Then  she  ties  them  into  small  bundles, 
and  ties  an  old  piece  of  mosquito  netting 
about  them,  to  keep  them  from  picking 
up  any  dust.  The  herbs  are  then  hung, 
leaves  downwards,  in  a  warm,  dry  place. 
In  a  few  days  they  will  be  thoroughly 
dry  and  brittle,  ^e  then  picks  all  the 
leaves  off,  and  puts  them  in  clean,  large- 
mouthed  bottles,  and  corks  and  labels 
them.  "When  needed  for  use,  they  are 
rubbed  very  fine  between  the  fingers  and 
passed  through  a  sieve.  The  bottle  is  al- 
ways kept  corked,  as  exposure  to  the  air 
will  cause  the  herbs  to  lose  strength  and 
flavor. 

Herbs,  such  as  Pweet  Marjoram, 
Thyme,  etc.,  are  in  daily  use  in  our 
kitchens.  In  like  manner  the  Creole 
housewife  gathers  the  leaves  of  the 
Laurel,  or  Bay  Leaf,  and.  after  washing 
and  drying  thoroughly,  the  leaves  are 
bottled  for  use.  But  fresh  herbs  are 
nearly  always  to  be  found  in  our  gar- 
dens. 


CHAPTER  XXX. 
RELISHES. 

Hors  d'Oeuvres. 


Hors  d'Oeuvres  are  relishes  and  may 
be  served  either  hot  or  cold.  Ordinarily, 
!n  dally  household  life,  only  the  cold 
hors  d'oeuvres,  such  as  cress,  celery, 
olives,  radishes,  etc,  are  served;  they  are 
set  upon  the  tables  as  a  decoration  and 
passed  as  appetizers  or  relishes  between 
the  courses.  At  more  formal  affairs,  hot 
hors  d'oeuvres  are  served,  some  of  them 
being  most  elegant  and  recherche  dish- 
es. The  hot  hors  d'oeuvre  does  not 
preclude  the  cold  at  the  same  dining. 

Gold   Rolishes. 

Hors  d'Oeuvres  Froids. 

Radishes.  Celery,  Olives,  Cress,  Lettuce, 
Roquette,  Pickled  Onions,  Sliced  Cucum- 
bers, Sliced  Tomatoes,  Pickles,  Mangoes, 
Melons,  Anchovies,  Sardines,  Lyonnalse 
Sausage  (Saucissons  Lyonnalse),  Bread 
and     Butter,     Crackers,     Anchovy     Sand  - 


wiches.  Ham  Sandwiches,  Cheese  Sand- 
wiches. Bologna  Sausage  cut  and  sliced. 
Cold  Ham,  Pig's  Feet,  a  Crawfish  Bush 
(Buisson  d'Ecrevisses),  a  Shrimp  Bush 
(Buisson  de  Chevrettes).  Boiled  Craw- 
fish. River  Shrimp  on  Ice.  Oysters  on 
Half  Shell,  Raw  Oysters.  Sliced  or  Quar- 
tered Lem  on ,  Salted  Almonds,  Salted 
Peanuts,  Canapes  of  Caviar.  Ham.  Crab, 
etc. 

Hot   Relishes. 

Hors  d'Oeuvres  Chauds. 
Petits  Pates  au  Jus  (or  small  hot  pat- 
ties of  meats,  etc.),  Boudlns  Nolrs  et 
Blancs  (Boudin  Sausages,  white  and 
black).  Rissoles,  Sausages  with  or  with- 
out Truffles,  Rognons  a  la  Brochette  or 
Broiled  Kidneys,  PIg*s  Feet,  Bouchees 
d'HuItres  or  Oyster  Patties.  Fried  Brains 
(whether     of     mutton     or     veal),     Calf's 


151 


Feet,    Oxtail    with    Vinegar    or    Mustard 
Sauce. 

Almost  all  of  the  above  named  Hors 
d'Oeuvres,  whether  hot  or  cold,  have  been 
already  treated  in  the  special  depart- 
ments, whether  of  vegetables  or  meat&i 
to  which  they  pertain.  The  subjoined 
recipes,  however,  have  been  especially 
prepared,  the  number  and  variety  of  our 
Creole  Hors  d'Oeuvres  being  such  as  to 
warrant  a  special  chapter  on  the  sub- 
ject. 

AncboTies  in   Oil. 

Anchoix     a    I'Huile 

1  Pint  Bottle  of  Boned  Anchovies 

1  Hard  Boiled  Egg. 

Chopped    Parsley    to    Garnish 

Take  the  contents  of  one  pint  bottle 
of  boned  Anchovies;  drain  them  of  all 
oil  on  a  cloth  and  then  arrange  nicely 
in  a  flat  glass  or  china  celery  or  raaisn 
dish.  Take  a  hard-boiled  egg,  hash  or 
slice  daintily  and  decorate  the  dish  with 
this.  Sprinkle  over  some  chopped  pars- 
ley   and    serve. 

Sardines  in  Oii. 

Sardines   a  I'Huile. 

1  Box  of  Sardines. 
Parsley  to  Garnish. 

Take  the  sardines  carefully  from  the 
box  and  avoid  breaking  them.  Decorate 
a  dish  nicely  with  springs  of  parsley  or 
watercress  and  lay  the  sardines  upon  it 
and  serve. 

Coquilles    of    Chicken,     Creole    Stylo. 

Coquilles  de  Volaille  a  la  Creole 

The  Breast  of  a  Roasted  Chicken 

1  Ounce  of  Butter.  1  Truffle. 

4  Mushrooms.  1  Dozen  Godiveau 

Quenelles. 

1 1-2  Pints   of  Madeira  Sauce. 

Grated  Bread   Crumbs. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  dice-shaped 
pieces;  take  an  ounce  of  butter  and 
place  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  chicken, 
chop  four  mushrooms  and  one  truffle 
and  add.  Make  a  dozen  small  Godiveau 
Quenelles  (see  recipe),  and  add  to  the 
mixture  in  the  saucepan;  pour  over  a 
half  pint  of  Madeira  Sauce  (see  recipe), 
stir  well  and  let  all  cook  for  five  minutes. 
Take  a  half  dozen  table  shells  and  fill 
with  this  mixture.  Sprinkle  grated  fresh 
bread  crumbs  over  the  tops,  spread  a 
little  melted  butter  over  each  and  place 
the  shells  on  a  baking  dish.  Place  in  a 
very  hot  oven  and  let  them  brown 
to  a  beautiful  golden  color.  This  will 
require  about  six  minutes.  Place  a  folded 
napkin  on  a  dish,  set  the  shells  upon  it 
and    send   to   the    table   hot. 

Cromesquies  With  Truffles. 

Cromesquies   aux    Truffes. 

1  Roasted  Chicken.    2  Truffles. 

1    Pint    of   Veloute    Sauce. 

6  Pieces  of  Crepinette. 

Salt    and    Pepper    to    Taste.    A    Dash    of 

Nutmeg. 

Roast  the  chicken,  then  bone  and  hash 

the  meat.    Make  a  pint  of  Veloute  Sauce, 

chop    the    truffles    very    fine    and    place 

the   chicken    and    the   truffles    and    sauce 

in  a  saucepan  together.     Season  to  taste 

with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  dash  ot 

nutmeg.     Cover  and  let  all  cook  for  ten 

minutes,    occasionally,    however,    stirring 


to  prevent  burning.  Then  take  from  the 
fire  and  let  cool  by  pouring  into  a  flat 
dish.  Spread  out  to  about  an  inch  In 
thickness  and  divide  into  six  parts.  Pre- 
pare six  pieces  of  Crepinette  and  roll 
each  one  of  the  six  parts  of  chicken 
into  the  skin.  Have  ready  a  flour  batter 
and  dip  each  Crepinette  into  the  batter 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard  for  five  minutes, 
or  until  slightly  brown.  Drain  thorough- 
ly on  a  cloth,  place  a  nice  folded  nap- 
kin on  a  dish;  Set  the  comesquies  upon 
it;  decorate  with  fried  "arsley  and  serve 
hot. 

Cromesquies  of  game,  veal  or  any 
meats  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Creole    Timbales. 

Timbales    Creoles. 

2    Raw    Chicken    Breasts. 

1  Cup  of  Bread  Soaked  in  Milk. 

1-2   Tablespoonful    of    Butter. 

The  Tolks   of   Four  Eggs. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Veloute    Sauce. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste. 

6  Plain  Pancakes.  1  Gill  Madeira  Sauce. 

Cut  up  into  medium-sized  pieces  two 
raw  chicken  breasts;  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  with  the  same  quantity  of  bread 
soaked  in  milk,  a  half  tablespoonful  of 
fresh  butter  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  Cayenne;  mix  all  well  together,  and 
then  mix  in  a  bowl  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  Veloute  Sauce.  (See  recipe.)  But- 
ter the  half  dpzen  small  timbale  molds 
and  line  them  with  the  plain  pancake. 
(See  recipe).  Fill  the  molds  with  the 
chicken  mixture  and  cover  with  small 
round  pieces  of  pancake.  Steam  them  in  a 
modern  oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  Then 
take  out  of  the  oven  and  remove  the  tim- 
bales from  the  mold;  garnish  a  hot  dish 
nicely  with  springs  of  parsley,  place  the 
timbales  upon  it.  pour  over  a  grill  of 
hot  Madeira  Sauce  and  send  to  the  table 
hot. 

Queen  of  the  Carnival  Croustades. 

Croustades    a   la    Reine    du    Carnival. 

6      Quenelles      (Chicken      or      Godiveau). 

2    Truffles. 

1   Sweetbread.  6   Kidneys. 

1    Pint    of    Allemande    Sauce. 

1-2   Glass   ot   WMte   Wine. 

1-4  Pound"  of  Foundation  Paste. 

Cracker   Dust   for   Filling. 

Prepare  six  Quenelles,  either  Chicken  or 
Godiveau  (see  recipe)  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  half  glass  of  white 
wine.  Season  the  wine  first  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  mushrooms 
and  the  truffles  all  cut  Into  dice-shaped 
pieces.  Poach  for  six  or  eight  minutes, 
and  then  take  one  pint  of  hot  Alle- 
mande Sauce  and  put  all  this  mixture 
into  it.  Let  all  stand  on  the  hot  stove 
for  five  minutes  and  in  the  meanwhile 
spread  out  a  quarter  of  a  pound  ot 
Foundation  Paste  (Pate-a-Foncer,  see  re- 
cipe) to  the  thickness  of  an  eighth  of 
an  inch;  line  six  tartlet  molds  with  this 
and  fill  with  cracker  crumbs  that  have 
been  pounded  into  a  dust.  Cover  with 
a  buttered  paper  and  set  in  the  oven 
and  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Then  take 
out,  remove  all  the  cracker  dust  and  fill 
the  moulds  with  the  hot  mixture  of 
chicken,  etc.  Set  In  the  oven  for  three 
minutes,  dress  nicely  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve    hot. 


162 


Xamb  Sweet  Breads  in  Cases. 

Riz  de  Veau  d'Agneau  en  Petites 
Caisses. 

6     Lamb     Sweetbreads. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1  Glass  of  Madeira   Wine. 

1  Small  Onion.    1  Sballot.     6  Mushrooms. 

1-2  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1    Tablespoonful        of    Chopped    Parsley. 

1   Gill    of    Sauce    Espagnole. 

Clean  and  pare  and  blanch  the  sweet- 
breads. (See  recipe.)  Then  set  aside  to 
cool.  Lard  nicely  with  very  fine  larding 
needles.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  sweet- 
breads. Pour  over  one  glass  of  Ma- 
deira Wine,  cover  well  with  onion,  shal- 
lot, mushrooms,  clove  of  garlic  and  pars- 
ley, all  minced  very  fine.  Cover  with  a 
piece  of  buttered  paper  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  ten  minutes  or  until  they  are  a 
nice  golden  brown  color.  Then  take  out  of 
the  oven  and  lay  on  the  sweetbreads  on  a 
dish.  Set  the  saucepan  back  on  the  stove 
and  all  a  gill  of  Sauce  Espagnole  (see 
recipe) .  Let  all  cook  for  five  minutes. 
Have  ready  six  small  boxes  of  buttered 
paper;  pour  a  little  of  the  gravy  into  the 
bottom  of  each  case,  then  place  a  sweet- 
bread in  each  and  set  in  a  baking  dish; 
set  the  dish  in  the  open  oven  for  five 
minutes;  then  arrange  a  napkin  nicely  in 
a  dish,  set  tbe  cases  of  sweetbreads  upon 
it  and   send  to   the   table"  hot. 

Macaroni    Croquettes. 

Croquettes    de    Macaroni. 

1-4    Pound    of    Macaroni. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2    Tablespoonful    of    Grated    Parmesan 

Cheese 

1      Tablespoonful      of      Cooked      Smoked 

Tongue,     Cut     Very     Fine. 

1  Minced  Truffle.  1  Egg. 

3  Tablespoonfuls   of  Grated  Fresh  Bread 

Crumbs. 

Boil  the  Macaroni.  (See  recipe.)  Then 
drain  well.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter into  a  saucepan,  add  the  Macaroni, 
and  sprinkle  over  the  grated  cheese  and 
the  minced  smoked  tongue  and  truffle. 
Toss  all  together  nicely  and  then  spread 
out  evenly.  Then  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  cool,  cut  the  preparation  into 
six  equal  parts  and  roll  each  in  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  then  in  a  well-beaten 
egg,  and  afterwards  in  freshly-grated 
bread  crumbs.  Have  ready  a  pan  of 
boiling  lard,  fry  the  Croquettes  in  the 
lard  for  five  minutes,  then  drain  well, 
place  on  a  dish  on  a  folded  napkin  and 
serve    hot. 

Royal    Salplcon. 

Salpicon    Royale. 

Sweetbreads.      1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

12  Mushrooms.  2  Truffles. 

1   Pint   of   Sauce  Allemande. 

Clean,  pare  and  blanch  the  sweetbreads. 
Then  cut  into  very  small  pieces  and 
■  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  let  them  saute 
a  moment  and  then  add  the  mushrooms 
and  truffles  all  cut  very  fine.  Add  a 
pint  of  Sauce  Allemande  (see  recipe), 
and  let  the  mixture  cook  on  a  slow 
fire  for  six  or  eight  minutes,  tossing 
gently  all  the  while.  Add  a  teaspoontul 
of  butter,  stir  well  and  use  for  any 
garnishing    desired. 


Salplcon,    Hnnters'    Style. 
Salpicon  a  la  Chassetir. 

The  Breasts  of  Two  Fine  Partridges. 

1  Tablespoonful     of    Butter.    12    Whole 

Peppers. 

1  Glass   of   Madeira  Wine. 

1  Glass  of  Good  Sherry  Wine. 

6  Blanched  Chicken  Livers. 

1   Carrot  1-2   Onion. 

1  Ounce  of  Cooked   Beef  Tongue. 

2  Truffles.     6   Mushrooms.     1  Bay  Leaf. 
1     Spring    of    Thyme.       Square    inch    of 

Lean  Ham. 

1  Quart  of  Comsomme  or  Broth. 

Cut  the  Breasts  of  the  Partridges  into 
dice-shaped  pieces,  and  then  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Pour  over  a  glass  of  good 
Sherry  wine  and  set  on  a  hot  fire. 
Add  the  blanched  chicken  -livers,  the 
truffle  cut  into  dice-shaped  pieces  and 
the  mushrooms  cut  very  fine.  Have 
already  prepared  a  "Fumet  of  Game," 
made  by  placing  one  carrot,  one-half 
of  a  small  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one 
square  inch  of  ham,  one  spring  of  thyme, 
and  the  carcass  of  the  partridges  into  a 
covered  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Let  these  brown  well  and 
add  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine.  Let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  then  moisten  with  one 
quart  of  broth  or.  consomme,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  add  twelve  whole 
black  peppers.  I.et  all  cook  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  until  it  is  reduced 
to  a  pint,  and  strain  through  a  napkin. 
Add  this  to  the  salpicorn  and  let  all  cook 
for  five  minutes  longer.  Use  as  a  gar- 
nish for  any  dish  desired. 

Creole    Salpicon. 

Salpicon    a    la    Creole. 

2  Dozen  Crawfish.       3  Tomatoes. 

1    Dozen    Mushrooms. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1  Pint  of  Boiling  Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

1  Herb  Bouquet.  12  Wliole  Black  Peppers. 

Put  two  tablesponfuls  of  butter  into 
a  saucepan  and  add  the  flour;  stir  con- 
stantly for  abotit  five  minutes.  Then 
moisten  well  with  the  milk,  pouring  it 
in  gradually  and  then  whisking.  Add 
the  grated  nutmeg,  salt  to  taste,  and 
the  twelve  whole  peppers.  Add  an  herb 
bouquet,  minced  fine,  and  let  all  cook 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  rub  well 
through  a  sieve;  and  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  the  tomatoes,  skinned  and  chopped 
fine,  and  the  meat  of  the  crawfish  cut 
into  dice-shaped  pieces,  and  the  minced 
mushrooms.  Let  all  cook  for  five  min- 
utes  and   serve. 

Lonisinna     Salpicon. 

Salplcon    Louisianise. 

50    Lake    Shrimp.      1    Dozpn    Mushrooms. 

1    Truffle       2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1    Grated    Nutmeg.    1    Herb    Bouquet. 

1    Glass    of    White    "U'ine. 

3  Tomatoes. 

Clean  and  scale  the  Shrimp  and  boll 
according  to  recipe.  Then  follow  in 
all  particulars  the  recipe  given  above 
tor  Salpicorn  Creole,  with  the  exception 
that  'WTiite  Wine  is  used  instead  of  milk, 
and  a  truffle  is  added  to  the  mlncea 
vegetables.     Send  to  the  table  hot. 


163 


Salpicon    a    la    Montglas. 

Salpicon  a  la  Montglas. 

The  Breasts   ot  Two   Small   Chickens,    or 

Any  Game. 

1  Ounce  of  Lean  Ham. 

1   Gill   of   Madeira   Sauce. 

1    Gill    of    Tomato    Sauce. 

6    Mushrooms.  1    Truffle. 

Mince    the    breasts    of    the    chicken    or 

game  very   fine,   mince   the  ham   truffles 

and    mushrooms,     and     put     all     into     a 

saucepan  with    a   gill   of   Madeira   Saucu. 

and       one       gill       of       Tomato       Sauce. 

Let  all  cook  for  five  minutes,   and   then 

use  as  a  garnish. 

Salpicon,  Financier  Style. 

Salpicon  a  la  Financiere. 

The  Legs  and  Breasts  of  a  Chicken. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Dozen    Small    Godiveau    Quenelles. 

1   Square   Inch    of   Ham.       1    Truffle. 

8  Mushrooms.     1  Pint  of  Madeira  Sauce 

Cut  the  chicken  into  dice-shaped  pieces, 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  the  butter; 
add  the  square  inch  of  ham,  the  truffles 
and  mushrooms,  all  minced  fine;  then 
add  twelve  small  Godiveau  Quenelles. 
(See  recipe.)  Add  a  pint  of  Madeira  Sauce 
(see  recipe) ;  set  on  the  stove,  and  let 
all  cook  for  five  or  eight  minutes,  and 
the  Salpicorn  is  ready  to  be  served  as  a 
garnish  for  any  dish  desired. 

Reed  Bird  Patties. 

Pates    d'Ortolans. 

1  Dozen  Reed  Birds.       1  Salpicon  Royal. 
1-4    Pound    of    Foundation   "Paste. 

Pick  and  clean  the  birds  and  season 
well;  then  bind  each  with  a  thin  strip 
of  bacon.  Make  a  Foundation  Paste 
(Pate-a-Foncer)  and  line  six  patty  moldrf 
with  this.  Put  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  empty 
them  and  let  them  dry ^  well  in  the  open 
oven  for  five  minutes.  Let  them  cool. 
Then  fill  the  botton  of  each  mold  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  Salpicorn  Royal  (see 
recipe),  and  place  in  each  mold  two  or 
the  nicely  prepared  birds.  Lay  the  pat- 
ties on  a  baking  dish  or  roasting  pan  and 
set  in  the  oven,  whose  heat  must  be 
moderate,  and  let  them  roast  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes.  Then  remove  from 
the  oven,  moisten  each  patty  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  hot  Madeira  Sauce,  and 
send    to    the    table   hot. 


Tamales, 

Des   Tamales. 

1   Tender   Young   Chicken. 

1    Cup    Boiled    Irish    Potatoes. 

1   Large  Onion.  1   Clove  of  Garlic. 

2  Springs  of  Parsley.     1  Bav  Leaf. 

1  Spring  of  Thyme.         1  Spoon  of  Butter. 

1    Cup    of    Cracker    Crumbs. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to   Taste. 

A  Good  Dash  of  Cayenne. 
Boil  a  young  chicken  until  the  meat 
can  be  picked  off  the  bones.  Then  chop 
up  very  fine.  Mince  the  onion,  clove 
of  garlic,  thyme,  bay  leaf,  and  parsley, 
very  fine.  Put  the  onion  and  butter 
Into  a  saucepan  and  let  brown  slightly, 
and  add  the  minced  garlic,  thyme,  pars- 
ley and  bay  leaf.  Add  the  chicken  im- 
mediately and  one  cup  of  mashed  pota- 
toes and  grated  cracker  crumbs.  Stir 
well,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
Chili  pepper.  Add  a  good  dash  of  Cay- 
enne, for  this  is  a  ve'ry  hot  dish.  Mix 
all  well  by  stirring  and  let  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Have  ready  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  and  about  a  dozen  nice,  clean 
corn-shuck  leaves.  Cut  the  leaves  into 
nice  oblong  shapes,  and  divide  the 
chicken  mixture  into  equal  parts.  Roll 
each  of  these  parts  into  a  corn  leaf  and 
tie,  and  immerse  in  boiling  water  for 
five  minutes.  Then  drain  off  the  water, 
arrange  the  husks  on  a  dish  and  send  to 
the   table   hot. 

PlcMed    Tunny, 

Thon    Marine. 

In  New  Orleans  we  only  get  the  tunny 
in  its  pickled  or  other  prepared  states. 
Take  a  radish  or  flat  celery  dish; 
decorate  nicely  with  fresh  parsley 
springs,  or  cress,  or  asparagus  tips;  lay 
the  tunnv  upon  it,  and  serve  as  a  cold 
Hors  d'Oeuvres. 

Lyonnaise    Sausage. 

Saucissons    de    Lyonnaise. 

12    Thin    Slices    of    Lyonnaise    Sausage. 

Parsley  Springs  to  Garnish. 

Cut    from    a    medium-sized    Lyonnaise 

Sausage  twelve  nice  and  very  thin  slices; 

decorate  a  dish  nicely  with  parsley  leaves 

on  the   outer  edges.      Lay   the   Saucisson 

de    Lyons   in  the   center   and    serve   as    a 

cold     hors     d'oeuvres. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 
SWEET  ENTREMETS. 

Des  Entremets  Sucres. 


ffweet  entrees  and  entremets  are  not 
the  least  part  of  the  real  Creole  cuisine. 
The  ancient  French  colonists  brought  the 
custom  of  serving  sweet  entremets  and 
entrees,  such  as  Beignets,  Compotes,  Souf- 
fles, Gelees,  etc.,  from  the  old  mother 
country  to  Louisiana.  The  Creoles  ap- 
plied these  ,  to  the  various  delightful  and 
refreshing  fruits  which  abound  in  Lou- 
isiana. When  the  little  Creole  children, 
taking  a  peep  into  the  kitchen,  as  chil- 
dren will  do  in  every  clime,  saw  that  the 
fat  and  cheery  old  negro  cook  was  going 
to  make  Apple  Fritters,  Orange  Fritters 
or  cook  fried  bananas  for  dinner,  there 
was  always  some  very  endearing  term 
applied  to  the  old  Creole  cuisiniere,  and 
she  never  failed  to  respond  in  the  whole- 
some and  practical  way  that  the  Creole 
cooks  of  those  days  did,  by  handing  « 
beautiful  golden  beignet.  piled  with 
snowy  sugar,   to   the  expected  little  ones. 


FRITTERS. 


Des   Beignets. 

The  most  important  rule  to  be  observed 
in  making  fritters,  whether  of  fruit  or 
plain,  is  to  have  the  batter  of  the  proper 
consistency.  This  is  particularly  impor- 
tant in  making  fruit  fritters.  "La  Pates 
a  Beignets,"  as  the  Creoles  call  the  bat- 
ter, must  be  of  sufficient  consistency  to 
envelop  in  one  single  immersion  the  fruit 
or  other  substance  with  which  it  is  in- 
tended to  make  the  fritters. 

Fritter  Batter  a  la  Creole. 

Pate   a.   Beignets   a  la   Creole. 

1   Cup   Flour.     2  Eggs.     2  Tablespoonfuls 

Brandy. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Cold  Water.    1  Tablespoonful  Butter, 

Melted. 


164 


Beat  the  yolks  of -the  eggs  well,  and 
add  the  flour,  beating  very  Ughf.  Now 
add  the  melted  butter  and  the  Brandy, 
and  thin  with  water  to  the  consistency 
of  a  very  thick  starch.  Add  the  whites 
of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then 
dip  the  fruit  into  this,  immersing  well  at 
one  dipping.  Lift  out  with  a  large  cook- 
ing spoon,  drop  into  the  boiling  lard,  and 
fry  to  a  golden  brown.  The  batter  must 
be  thick  enough  to  coat  the  fruit  all 
around  in  one  immersion,  yet  it  must  not 
be  so  thick  as  to  be  over-heavily  coated 
or  tough. 

Many  of  the  Creoles  substitute,  accord- 
ing to  the  fruit  which  they  intend  to 
make  into  fritters.  White  wine  or  Sherry 
or  lemon  juice  for  the  Brandy.  A  fruit 
fritter  must  always  be  sprinkled  nicely 
and  lightly  with  powdered  sugar,  and, 
if  served  as  an  entremet,  it  must  be  hot. 
Fruit  fritters  often  take  the  place  of  des- 
serts among  the  poorer  Creole  families. 

French  Fritter  Batter. 

Pate   a   Beignets   a   la    Francaise. 

1  Cup  of   Sifted   Flour.     1-2   Cup   of   Cold 

Water. 

2  Eggs.     1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Best  Olive  Oil. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Brandy    or    Orange 

Flower  Water. 
1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
Beat  the  whites  well  into  a  stiff  froth. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  into  the  flour 
until  very  light,  and  add  the  sugar, 
blending  well.  Add  Brandy  or  orange 
(lower  water,  and  beat  light,  and  then 
add  the  water  and  oil,  making  the  batter 
of  the  consistency  of  a  very  thick  starch. 
Now  add  the  whites  of  the  egg,  beat 
well,  and  proceed  to  drop  in  the  fruit, 
as  in   above  recipe. 

Plain  Fritters. 
Beignets   de   Pate. 

1  Pint  of  Flour.  1  Pint  of  Milk. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 
4  Eggs. 
The  Zest  of  Half  a  Ijemon. 
1-4  Cup  of  Sugar.  Flavoring  to  Taste. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
whites  separate.  Sift  the  baking  pow- 
der into  the  flour,  and  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Beat  well,  and 
add  the  milk,  and  flavoring  of  orange, 
vanilla  or  Brandy  to  taste.  (The  flavor- 
ing may  be  omitted  altogether.)  Add  the 
zest  of  a  lemon,  grated  very  fine,  and 
salt  in  quantity  given  above.  Lastly, 
add  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  have  the  batter  of  such  consistency 
that  it  will  pour  from  the  spoon.  Drop 
it  in  the  boiling  lard  by  large  kitchen 
spoonfuls,  and  let  it  fry  to  a  golden  yel- 
low. (See  General  Directions  tor  Fry- 
ing.) Lift  out  with  a  skimmer,  and 
drain  and  place  on  a  heated  dish,  and 
sprinkle  freely  with  powdered  white 
sugar,  and  serve  hot.  In  arranging  them 
in  the  dish  make  the  fritters  rise  into  a 
pretty  pyramid  and  sprinkle  with  the 
sugar.  Never  pierce  fritters  with  a  fork, 
as  it  will  cause  the  steam  to  evaporate 
and  make  the  fritters  heavy.  A  fritter 
that  is  well  made  should  be  light  and 
puffy- 
Plain  Fritter  Batter  for  Meats,  Poul- 
try,   Etc. 

Pate    a    Beignets    pour    les    Viandes,    les 

Volalllcs,   etc. 

1   Cup   Flour.     1   Cup   of   Water.     2   Eggs. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   Salt. 

1   Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 


Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
flour  together,  and  add  the  melted  but- 
ter and  the  salt.  Then  add  the  water, 
and  beat  well,  and  finally  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Some  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  This  is  according  to  taste.  If 
the  eggs  are  well  beaten,  there  will  be  no 
need  for  the  baking  powder. 

This  batter  is  used  in  making  pork, 
kidney  or  chicken  fritters,  or  fritters,,  of 
left-over  meats,  and  also  for  all  meats 
or  fish  which  must  be  rolled  in  batter. 

Apple  Fritters. 

Beignets   de   Pommes. 

3    Fresh    Apples. 

1  Gill  of  Brandy  or  Rum  (if  desired). 

Grated  Peel  of  1-2  Lemon. 

Powdered   Sugar. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples,  which  will  be 
all  the  nicer  if  they  are  a  little  tart. 
Take  out  the  seeds  and  core.  (5ut  them 
into  slices,  more  or  less  thick  or  thin,  ac- 
cording to  taste.  The  thin  slices  are 
recommended.  Soak  them  in  Brandy  or 
"  good  Whisky,  or  Rum,  for  the  space  of 
two  hours,  sprinkling  with  the  grated 
zest  of  a  lemon  and  sugar,  according  to 
judgment.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
should  be  sufficient  for  the  zest  or  rind 
of  half  a  lemon.  Make  a  batter  a  la 
Creole  and  have  ready  a  deep  saucepan 
of  boiling  lard.  Drain  the  apples.  Dip 
the  slices,  one  at  a  time,  into  the  batter, 
lift  out  with  a  large  kitchen  spoon,  drop 
into  the  boiling  lard,  and  fry  to  a  golden 
brown.  Then  lift  out  with  a  skimmer, 
and  set  on  brown  paper,  in  the  mouth  of 
the  oven,  and  drain.  Sift  powdered  white 
sugar  over  them,  and  serve  hot,  piling 
high  in  pyramidal  shape,  and  sprinkling 
again  with  powdered  white  sugar.  Serve 
as  an  entremet  or  as  a  dessert.  The 
liquor  may  be  omitted,  and  the  apples 
simply  cut  into  very  thin  slices;  then 
proceed  with  the  dropping  in  batter  and 
frying. 

Apricot    Fritters. 

Beignets    d'Abricots. 

6   Fresh   or   a   Half  Can   of  Apricots. 

1  Glass  of  Madeira  Wine. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Sugar. 

Grated    Lemon    Peel. 

If  the  apricots  are  fresh,  peel  and  stone 
them,  and  cut  into  halves.  Then  sprinkle 
them  with  the  grated  zest  of  a  lemon  and 
sugar,  and  pour  over  them  sufficient 
Madeira  wine  to  thoroughly  saturate. 
Cover  and  set  aside  for  two  hours.  Then 
drain  off  the  liquor.  Make  a  Fruit  Frit 
ter  Batter  a  la  Creole,  and  have  ready 
a  saucepan  filled  deep  with  boiling  lard. 
Dip  the  apricots,  one  by  one,  into  the 
batter,  and  drop  from  the  spoon  into  the 
lard,  and  let  them  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 
In  serving,  proceed  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  in  the  directions  given  for 
Apple    Fritters.     (See    recipe.) 

Banana  Fritters. 

Beignets   de   Bananes. 

3    Bananas.     Fritter    Batter    a    la    Creole. 

Make  a  Fritter  Batter  a  la  Creole.  Peel 
the  bananas  and  then  cut  them  in  halves. 
Slice  them  nicely,  according  to  length. 
Dip  in  the  fritter  batter,  and  proceed 
to  cook  and  serve  as  in  the  recipe  for 
Apple  Fritters.  The  bananas  may  also 
be  cut  into  round  slices.  In  this  case 
two  or  three  slices  at  a  time  must  be  put 
in  each  fritter.  The  method  of  cutting 
by    lengths    is   recommended. 


165 


Banana    Fritters    With    Cognac    or    Bum. 

Beignets    de    Bananes    au    Cognac    ou    au 
Rhum. 

3    Bananas.     Fritter    Batter    a    la    Creole. 

If  "Beignets  de  Bananes  au  Cognac,"  or 
"au  Rhum,"  are  desired,  slice  the  banana 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  cover  with 
sufficient  Cognac  or  Rum  to  saturate 
well.  Set  them  aside  for  half  an  hour, 
then  drain,  and  proceed  as  in  Apple 
Fritters. 

Brioche   Fritters, 

Beignets  de  Brioches. 

3   Small  Brioches. 
1    Tablespoonful    of    Essence    of    Vanilla. 

liCmons  or  Orange  Flower  Water. 

Creole    Fritter    Batter.     Powdered    "WTiite 

Sjugar. 

Cut  the  Brioche  (.see  recipe  under  chap- 
ter on  Breads)  into  slices,  more  or  less 
thin,  and  soak  them  In  sweetened  milk, 
to  which  you  have  added  the  essence  of 
orange  flower  water,  vanilla  or  lemon. 
Drop  them  into  a  light  fritter  batter,  or 
simply  drop  them  into  boiling  lard,  fry 
to  a  golden  yellow,  sprinkle  with  white 
sugar,  and  serve. 

Cherry    Fritters. 
Beignets    de    Cerises. 

1   Pint   of   Fine   Cherries.     1   Egg. 

1    Pint    of    Milk. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Madeira    or    Malaga 

"Wine. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar. 

The  Zest  of  a  Lemon. 

Prepare  the  cherries  by  taking  out  the 
stones.  Make  them  into  a  thick  marma- 
lade, adding  a  tablespoonful  of  Madeira 
or  Malaga  wine.  Soak  nice  slices  of 
bread  in  milk  and  egg,  seasoned  well 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  the 
grated  zest  of  a  lemon.  Take  the  slices, 
when  well-soaked,  and  spread  the  mar- 
malade well  over  them,  making  it  adhere 
very  thickly  and  closely  into  the  meshes 
of  the  bread.  Then  fry  in  boiling  lard, 
sprinkle  nicely  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
serve  hot.  Or  mix  the  cherries  in  Creole 
Fritter  Batter,  drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
the  boiling  lard,  fry  to  a  golden  brown, 
drain  in  the  oven,  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  white  sugar  and  serve  hot. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Beignets    de    Farine    de    Mais. 

1    Pint   of    Cornmeal.     1    Pint    of    Boiling 

Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

3  Eggs.     1-4  Cup  of  Sugar.     Flavoring  to 

1-4   Spoonful    of  Salt. 

Beat    the    yolks    of    the    eggs    and    the 
cornmeal    together,    and    add    the    melted 
butter  and  the  milk,  stirring  and  beating 
well.    Add  the  .salt  and  any  flavoring  ex- 
tract preferred,  and,  lastly,  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Fry  in 
boiling    lard,    dropping    in    the    lard    by 
spoonfuls.  By  omitting  the  sugar  you  will 
have  nice  corn  cakes  to  eat  with  butter. 
In   this   case   do   not  use  the   same   quan- 
tity of  lard,  but  bake  on  a  griddle. 
Elderfiower  Fritters. 
Beignets    a    la    Fleur    de    Sureau. 
1  Cup  of  Tender  "WTiite  Elder  Flowers. 
1   Cup   of   Sugar. 
White   of  2  Eggs.     Creole   Fritter  Batter. 

Select   a   sufficient    quantity   of-  beauti- 
ful, tender  white  flowers,  and  soak  them 


in  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
snowy  froth,  and  well  blended  with  white 
sugar.  Dip  them  by  spoonfuls  into  the 
fritter  batter,  and  fry  according  to  direc- 
tions. 

Fig   Fritters. 

Beignets  de  Figues. 

1   Pint  of   Fresh  Figs. 

1-2  Cup   of  Sugar. 
Creole   Fritter  Batter. 

Pare  the  figs,  taking  off  every  particle 
of  the  skin.  Then  cut  up  nicely,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  let  them  stand  for  half 
an  hour.  Then  add  the  juice  to  fritter 
batter  and  proceed  as  in  Apple  Fritters. 
(S'ee   recipe.) 

Fritters   Souffle  a  la   Vanille. 

Beignets  Souffle  a,  la  Vanille. 

3    Ounces    of   Flour.    1    Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

1-2  Pint   of   Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar. 

The    Yolks    of   2    Eggs.     The    White    of   1 

Egg. 

1    Spoonful    of    Whipped    Cream. 

1  Vanilla  Bean.     Powdered  White  S'ugar. 

Put  the  milk  into  a  saucepan  and  In- 
fuse the  vanilla  bean,  and  let  the  milk 
reduce  to  -one-half.  Then  remove  the 
bean,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and,  when  it  comes  to  a  good  boil,  add 
the  flour,  well  sifted;  stir  briskly  till  a 
stiff  paste  is  formed  that  will  not  adhere 
to  the  saucepan.  Then  take  off  the  fire 
and  add  an  ounce  of  powdered  white 
sugar  that  has  been  beaten  well  with 
the  yolTts  of  two  eggs.  Have  ready  the 
white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  mix  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream 
with  this,  and  add  to  the  paste.  Mix 
well,  and  then  roll  the  paste  out  on  a 
flour  board  that  has  been  slightly 
sprinkled  with  flour,  and  sprinkle  lightly 
on  top  with  the  flour.  Cut  into  small 
cakes,  drop  into  very  hot  lard,  and  let 
them  cook  to  a  golden  brown.  Then  ar- 
range nicely  on  a  dish,  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  them,  and  send  to  the  table 
hot. 

Lemon  Fritters. 

Beignets  de  Citron. 

1    Pint    of    Creole   Fritter   Batter. 

The    Juice    of   1    Lemon. 

2-3  Cup   of  Sugar. 

Make  a  plain  Creole  batter  for  fruit 
fritters,  and  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  sugar  to  taste,  and  proceed  as  di- 
rected in  cooking  and  serving  Apple 
Fritters. 

Orange    Fritters. 

Beignets    d'Oranges. 

2  Large  Louisiana  Oranges. 

Creole  Fritter  Batter. 

Pare  the  oranges,  taking  off  every 
particle  of  the  white  inner  skin.  Then 
slice  nicely,  and  take  out  the  seeds. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  let  them  stand 
for  an  hour.  Then  add  the  juice  to  the 
fritter  batter,  and  proceed  as  in  Apple 
Fritters.  Or,  better  still,  place  the 
oranges  thus  sliced  over  a  slow  fire, 
add  a  little  water  and  several  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  let  them  cook  till 
you  have  a  light  marmalade.  Take  it 
off,  let  it  cool,  cover  the  slices  of  orange 
well  with  the  jellied  juice,  dip  in  the 
batter,  and  proceed  as  directed  in  recipe 
for  Apple  Fritters.     (See  recipe.) 


166 


Peach  Fritters. 

Beignets    de    Peches. 

6  Fresh  or  Canned  Peaches   (1-2  Can). 

Madeira       Wine.      3      Tablespoonfuls      of 

Sugar. 

Grated  Lemon  Peel. 

If  the  peaches  are  fresh,  peel  and  stone 
them,  and  cut  in  halves.  Then  sprinkle 
them  with  the  grated  zest  of  a  lemon 
and  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  sufficient 
Madeira  wine  for  them  to  be  saturated. 
Cover  and  set  aside  for  two  nours.  Then 
drain  cTf  the  liquor.  Make  a  Fruit  Frit- 
ter Batter  a  la  Creole,  and  have  ready  a 
saucepan  filled  deep  with  boiling  lard. 
Dip  the  peaches,  one  by  one,  into  the 
batter,  and  drop  from  the  spoon  into  the 
lard,  and  let  them  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 
Then  proceed  in  exactly  the  same  man- 
ner of  serving  as  in  the  directions  given 
for  Apple  Fritters.      (See  recipe.) 

Pear   Fritters. 

Beignets    de    Poires. 

3  Fresh  Pears  or  4  Canned  Pears. 

Brandy  or  Rum   (if  desired). 

■Grated     L.enion     Peel.     Powdered     Sugar. 

Peel  and  core  the  pears,  which  will  be 
all  the  nicer  if  they  are  a  little  tart. 
Take  out  the  seeds  and  core.  Cut  them 
Into  slices,  more  or  less  thick  or  thin,  ac- 
cording to  taste.  The  thii.  sltces  are 
recommended.  Soak  them  in  Brandy  or 
good  Wliisky  or  Rum  for  the  space  of 
two  hours,  sprinkling  with  the  zest  of  a 
lemon  and  sugar,  according  to  judgment. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  should  be 
sufficient.  Make  a  batter  a  la  Creole, 
and  have  ready  a  deep  saucepan  of  boil- 
ing lard.  Drain  the  pears.  Dip  the 
slices,  one  at  a  time,  into  the  batter;  lift 
out  with  a  large  kitchenspoon,  drop  into 
the  boiling  lard,  and  fry  to  a  golden 
brown.  Then  lift  out  with  a  skimmer, 
and  set  on  brown  paper,  in  the  mouth  of 
the  oven,  and  drain.  S'ift  powdered  white 
sugar  over  them,  and  serve  hot,  piling 
high  in  pyramidal  shape,  and  sprinkling 
again  with  powdered  white  sugar.  Serve 
as  an  entremet  or  as  a  dessert.  The 
liquor  may  be  omitted,  and  the  pears 
simply  cut  into  very  thin  slices;  then 
proceed,  dropping  in  batter  and  frying. 
Serve  as  directed  above. 

Pineapple    Fritters. 

Beignets    d'Ananas. 

1-2    a.    Pineapple.     Fritter    Batter. 
1-2    Cup    of    Sugar.    1    Gill    White    Wine. 

Slice  the  pineapple,  and  cut  the  slices 
in  halves.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
White  wine,  and  let  them  soak  for  an 
hour.  Then  proceed  as  in  Apple  Fritters. 
Or,  simply  sprinkle  with  sugar,  let  them 
stand  one  hour,  add  the  juice  to  the 
fritter  batter,  and  proceed  as  above. 

Pineapple   Cream   Fritters. 

Beignets   d*Ananas    a   la    Creme. 

1-2  a.  Pineapple.     1-2  Cup  of  Sugar, 

1  Gill  of  White  Wine. 

Cream  Puff  Paste. 

For  these  fritters  it  is  necessary  to 
make  a  Cream  Paste.  (See  recipe.)  Pre- 
pare the  pineapple  as  in  the  above  re- 
cipe; then  dip  in  the  Cream  Puff  Paste 
and  proceed  as  In  Apple  Fritters.  (See 
recipe.) 


Qneen  Fritters. 

Beignets   a   la   Heine. 

1  Cup  of  Cream  Puff  Filling 

A  Cream   Puff  Batter. 

1-4  Cup  of  Grated  Almonds. 

1   Glass   of   Sherry   Wine. 

Cold     Sherry     Wine     Sauce     or     French 

Sauce. 

Prepare  a  Cream  Puff  Batter  and  a 
Cream  Puff  Filling.  (See  recipe.)  If  the 
flavor  of  almonds  is  desired  add  a  few 
finely-grated  almonds  that  have  been 
steeped  in  Sherry  wine.  Have  ready  tho 
frying  pan,  with  boiling  lard.  Roll  the 
cream  batter  into  small  balls,  and  fry 
till  they  swell  to  the  size  of  an  egg.  Skim 
out  with  a  skimmer,  and  drain,  and, 
when '  cold,  split  one  side  with  a  very 
sharp  knife,  and  fill  with  the  filling; 
close,  and  continue  till  all  are  filled. 
Serve  cold  with  Slierry  Wine  Sauce  or 
Peach   Sauce. 

Bice  Fritters. 

Beignets   de   Riz. 

1  Cup  of  Cold  Rice. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.     Yolks    of  2 

Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Orange  or  Lemon 

Essence. 

A  Pinch  of  Cinnamon. 

Take  one  cup  of  cold  rice,  mash  it  well, 
and  then  pass  through  a  sieve.  Season 
with  the  orange  essence  or  lemon,  a 
pinch  of  cinnamon,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Then  make  the  rice  into  small  bou- 
lettes  or  balls,  roll  in  a  beaten  egg,  fry 
to  a  golden  brown,  sprinkle  with  white 
sugar  and  serve. 

Sago    Croquettes. 

Croquettes    de   Sagou. 

Equal    Parts    of    Sago    Jtfarmalade    and 

Rice    Croquettes. 

Creole  Fritter  Batter. 

Port  Wine  Sauce. 

Prepare  Croquettes  of  Rice  (see  recipe), 

adding  equal  parts   of  Sago   Marmalade. 

Dip  in  fritter  batter,  and  fry  to  a  golden 

brown,  and  serve  with  Port  Wine  Sauce. 

Strawberry  Fritters. 

Beignets    de    F*raises. 

1  Pint  of  Fine,  Large  Strawberries. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  White  Wine. 

Grated  Zest  of  1-2  Lemon. 

For  this  purpose  have  fine,  large  straw- 
berries. Make  a  Fritter  Batter  a  la  Cre- 
ole, only  just  before  adding  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  add  the  grated  zest  of  half 
a  lemon  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  White 
Wine.  The  batter  must  be  of  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream.  Stem  the  straw- 
berries, and  drop  them  into  the  batter. 
Proceed  to  fry  as  in  recipe  given  for 
Apple  Fritters  (see  recipe),  allowing  two 
or  three  strawberries  to  each  fritter.  Or 
make  a  marmalade  of  the  strawberries, 
keeping  them  whole,  and  proceed  as  tn 
Orange   Fi-itters.     (See  recipe.) 

Surprise  Fritters. 

Beigne^   en    Surprise. 

6  Nice,  Small  Ripe  Apples. 

1  Glass  of  Brandy. 

The    Zest    of   1    Lemon.     The   White   of  1 

Egg. 
1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cinnamon. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Allspice. 
Take  nice,  small,  ripe  apples,  and  peel 
them.  Cut  off  about  an  inch  at  the  top 
end,  and  then  scoop  out  the  interior, 
leaving    the     apple    frame    whole.    Take 


167 


out  all  the  seeds  and  cores  from  these 
cuttings,  and  mince  them  very  fine.  Then 
put  them  into  a  dish  and  put  also  the 
apple  frames,  and  cover  them  with 
Brandy.  Sprinkle  well  with  the  grated 
zest  of  a  lemon  and  ground,  cinnamon 
and  allspice,  and  add  to  the  minced  por- 
tion of  the  apples  a  few  apricots,  well 
minced.  After  an  hour,  take  the  frames 
out  of  the  marinade.  Then  drain  the 
apple  stuffing  of  the  Brandy  and  add  to 
it  the  white  of  an  egg,  well  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Mix  this  well,  and  then  fill 
the  interiors  of  the  apple  frames  with  it. 
Cover  with  the  pieces  of  apple  that  were 
taken  from  the  tops,  and  which  must  be 
immersed  in  the  marinade,  like  the 
frames,  covering  this  opening  well.  Take 
the  fritter  batter,  and  immerse  each  piece 
gently,  just  enough  for  the  batter  to 
cover,  and  place  in  a  frying  pan  of  boil- 
ing lard,  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 
Place  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  well  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  serve  hot.  Or  the  apples 
may  be  simply  placed  in  the  oven, 
sprinkled  with  sugar,  a  little  water 
added,  and  let  them  bake  till  a  beautiful 
golden  brown. 

Sweet  Omelet  Fritters. 

Beignets  3'OmeIette  au  Sucre. 

A  Plain  Omelet. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Brandy. 

Creole    Fritter    Batter.     Powdered    White 

Sugar. 

Make  an  omelet  (see  recipe),  and  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  good  Brandy.  Cook  it  nicely 
and  very  soft,  and  then  cut  it  into  small 
slices.  Plunge  these  into  the  fritter  bat- 
ter, let  them  fry  to  a.  golden  brown,  and 
then  drain  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven  on 
brown  pepper.  Place  in  a  heated  dish, 
sprinkle  well  with  fine  white  sugar,  and 
serve  hot. 

Stewed  Apples. 

Compote   de   Pommes. 

6  Apples,  Large  and  Firm. 

Sugar    to    Taste.     The    Zest    of    Half    an 

Orange. 

1    Blade    Mauc. 

1     Stick     Ground     Cinnamon.     4     Ground 

Allspice. 

Pare  the  apples  and  cut  into  quarters 
or  semi-quarters,  removing  the  cores  and 
seeds.  Add  half  a  cup  of  water.  Put 
them  into  an  agate  or  a  porcelain-lined 
saucepan,  and  strew  generously  with 
sugar.  Let  them  simmer  gently  for  half 
an  hour.  Then  add  the  zest  of  half  an 
orange,  grated,  and  the  ground  spices. 
Let  all  simmer  gently  till  they  form  a 
rich,  tender  compote,  that  is,  until  not 
the  least  semblance  remains  of  being  un- 
cooked. This  compote  may  be  served  hot 
during  the  meal,  or  it  may  be  used  as  a 
dessert,  with   cream  or  milk. 

Apples  may  be  stewed  whole  in  the 
same  manner,  only  remember  to  extract 
the  core  with  a  fine  knife. 

Baked  Apples. 

Pommes    Rotiea. 

6    Fine    Apples. 

6    Spoonfuls    of    Sugar.     1    Cupful    of 

Water. 

Cut  the  blossom  end  or  the  apple,  and 
wash,  but  do  not  peel.  Set  them  in  a 
.baking  pan,  heap  a  spoonful  of  sugar 
over  each  in  the  little  place  scooped  out 
at  the  blossom  end,  and  pour  a  cupful 
of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Set 
in    the    oven,    and    bake    till    very    tender. 


Place  in  a  dish,  pour  over  the  syrup,  and 
serve  either  hot  or  cold.     They  are  much 
nicer   served   cold,   with   a   glass   of  milk. 
They  are  then  used  as  a  dessert. 
Fried  Apples, 
Pommes    Frites. 

3  Fine  Apples.     Boiling  Lard. 
1-2    Cup    of    White    Powdered    Sugar. 

Pare  the  apples  and  cut  into  round 
slices.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  lard, 
and  fry  to  a  delicate  golden  brown.  Place 
in  a  colander,  heated,  and  in  which  you 
have  placed  a  piece  of  brown  paper. 
Drain  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  Place 
in  a  dish,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
serve  hot  with  roast  meat,  roast  pork, 
etc. 

Apple    Charlotte. 

Charlotte  de  Pommes. 

6    Large   Apples.     6   Apricots. 
3  Tablespoonfuls   of  Butter. 
1  Cup    of  Sugar,    or   Sugar   to   Taste. 

Pare  the  apples  and  then  cut  them  into 
slices,  taking  out  the  seeas  and  core. 
Then  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  three 
large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Add  a 
little  water  to  stew  gently,  and  add  the 
apricots,  if  you  have  them.  In  this  case 
use  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
ground  cinnamon,  and  allspice  to  taste. 
Let  all  cook  to  a  nice  marmalade.  Then 
take  off  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  grated 
nutmeg.  Then  cut  six  slices  of  bread, 
and  butter  well.  Butter  a  pan  and  gar- 
nish it  around  the  bottom  and  around 
with  the  slices  of  bread,  which  must  be 
very  thin.  Then  fill  with  the  apples,  and 
cover  on  top  with  the  bread.  Dot  with 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  put 
in  an  oven  and  bake  to  a  golden  brown. 
When  done,  carefiJlly  loosen  the  edges 
and  turn  into  a  dish.  Serve  it  hot,  with 
sugar  and  cream,  or  with  a  Custard 
Sauce,  flavored  with  good  Brandy. 
(See  recipe.) 

Cherry    Charlotte. 

Charlotte  de  Cerises. 
1  Pound  Cherries.    1  Pound  White  Sugar. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
The  Soft  of  Bread. 
Seed   the   cherries,   and   butter   the   bot- 
tom   of   a   pudding   dish.    Cover  the   bot- 
tom  with    a   layer   of   the   bread    crumbs, 
which   must    be    soft.     Then    add   a   layer 
of  the  cherries,  which  have  been   cookefl 
like     the      apples,      into      a      marmalade. 
Sprinkle    with    sugar,    and    add    another 
layer    of    cherries,    and   then    a    layer    of 
bread    crumbs,    alternating    till    the    dish 
is    filled,    letting    the    last    layer    be    of 
crumbs,  which  you  will  dot  with  bits  of 
butter.     Put  in  an  oven  and  bake  for  an 
hour.    Serve   cold  with  cream. 
Currant  Charlotte. 
Charlotte    de    Groseilles. 
1  Pound   of   Currants. 
1   Pound  of  White  Sugar. 
2    Tablespoonfuls    of   Butter. 
The  Soft  of  Bread. 
Proceed    exactly    as    for    Cherry    Char- 
lotte,   making    a  marmalade    of   the    cur- 
rants, and  using  the  same  proportion  as 
above. 

Kaspberry    or    Blackberry     Charlotte, 

Charlotte    de    Bramboises    ou    de    Mures. 

1   Pound   of  Raspberries   or  Blackberries. 

1  Pound  of  "White  Sugar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

The  Soft  of  Bread. 


168 


Stew  the  berries,  making  a  marmalade, 
and  proceed  exactly  as  in  tlie  recipe  for 
Cherry  Charlotte. 

Fruit    Toasts    With    Cherries,    Apricots    or 
Raspberries. 

Croutes  de  Fruites  aux  Cerises  aux  Abri- 
cots    ou   aux    Pramboises. 
6  Slices  of  French  Toast. 
1    Cup    of    Fruit    Marmalade. 
Cream    to    Serve. 
Prepare  thin  slices  of  very  dry  French 
toast,     and     butter    generously.     Take     a 
dish,  and  lay  on  each  slice  of  toast  gen- 
erous  allotments   of   the   fruits   you   wish 
to  serve.     The  fruit  must  be  made  into  a 
marmalade.     Pour    all    remains    of    syrup 
over   the   toast,    and   serve   with   cream. 
Fried    Bananas. 
Bananes    Frites. 
4  Bananas.     Boiling  Lard. 
White    Powdered    Sugar. 
Peel  the  bananas,  and  cut  them  In  two, 
lengthwise.     Then   slice   lengthwise  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.     Have 
ready    a    pan    of    boiling    lard.     Lay    the 
bananas    m    it,    and    fry   brown,    first    on 
one   side   and   then    on    the    other,   sifting 
with     a     little     powdered     sugar.     When 
done,   skim   out  of  the  pan,   place  neatly 
in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
agam,  and  serve  hot,  as  an  entree.     This 
IS    a    celebrated    and    cheap    Creole    dish, 
and   IS  seen   on  the  tables   of  all   classes. 
The  banana  stalls  in  the  French  Market 
are   famous,   and    at   every   corner   or  so 
here  and  there  throughout  the  city,  there 
are    fruit    stalls,    where    the    banana    is 
always    to    be    found    in    a    perfect   state, 
and    very    fresh    and    inviting.     Bananas 
are  also  served  in  their  natural  state,  as 
a  fruit  dessert. 

Stewed   Peaches. 

Compote   de  Peches. 

10   Medium-Sized  Peaches. 

1  Pint  of  Cold  Water. 

1-2   Pound    of   Granulated    Sugar. 

1    Gill    of   Kirsch    or   Brandy,    if   Desired. 

Peel  the  peaches  and  cut  them  into 
quarters,  carefully  removing  the  stones. 
Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint  of 
cold  water  and  a  half  pound  of  granu- 
lated sugar;  set  on  th<r  stove,  and,  when 
they  begin  to  boil,  skim  well.  Then  let 
them  cook  for  six  minutes  longer,  stir- 
ring slowly;  avoid  mashing  the  peaches. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  add,  if  de- 
sired, a  gill  of  Kirsch  or  Brandy;  mix 
well  and  p'our  the  peaches  into  a  dessert 
dish  to  cool.  Serve  cold,  either  plain  or 
with  cream.  The  peaches  may  be  boiled 
whole. 

Orange  Salad. 

Salade   d'Oranges. 

6    Fine    Lc'uisiana    Oranges. 

3-4  Pound  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1  Glass  of  Rum  or  Brandy. 

Peel   the    oranges   whole,    removing   the 

peel    entirely    down    to    the    tips    of    the 

stem  end.     Cut  in  slices,  and  cut  out  the 

seeds.    Pile   the   oranges    in    a   neat   heap 

in  a  dish.    Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Boil  some  sugar  to  a  syrup,  using  about 

half  a  pound  to  half  a  pound  of  oranges. 

Add  a  glass  of  rum  or  brandy,  and,  when 

cold,  pour  over  the  oranges  and  serve. 

Sweet   Omelet   Entremets. 

Entremets    d'Omelettes     au     Sucre. 

Rum  Omelet,  Omelette  Souffle,  Omelet 
aux   Confitures,    etc.,    are   also   served    as 


bweet  Entremets.  These  were  specially 
treated  under  the  chapter  on  "Eggs." 
(See    recipes.) 

Wine    and    Liquor    Xlntremets. 

Entremets  au  Vin  et  aux  Liqueurs. 

Roman  Punch,  Punch  a  la  Cardinale, 
Sorbet  a  la  Royale,  and  other  fancy  con- 
coctions of  ices  or  sherbets  and  liqueurs, 
are  also  served  as  entremets.  Indeed,  no 
elegant  feast  is  considered  complete  with- 
out a  Ponche  a  la  Romaine,  Ponche  a  la 
Cardinale,  or  a  Sorbet  a  la  Royale,  etc. 
(See  recipe.) 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Croxignolles. 

1-2  Cup  Sugar.     1  Pint  of  Milk.    3  Eggs 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1-2    Cake    of    Compressed    Yeast. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Flour   in   Sufficient  Quantity  to  Make  a 

Dough. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  then  add  the  but- 
ter, and  let  it  stand  and  cool.  When  it 
has  cooled,  add  the  yeast  and  the  sugar, 
and  beat  in  the  flour  gradually.  Beat 
well,  and  then  cover,  and  set  the  mix- 
ture in  a  warm  place  over  night.  But  be 
careful  to  have  the  warmth  only  mod- 
erate. In  the  morning  beat  the  eggs  till 
very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the  butter. 
Then  add  more  flour,  sufficient  to  make 
a  dough,  which  must  be  soft.  Knead 
this  dough  lightly,  and  stand  it  away 
to  rise.  When  it  has  risen  well  take  one- 
half  of  the  dough  and  roll  it  on  the 
biscuit  board,  and  then  cut  into  dough- 
nuts, using  a  large  cake  or  biscuit  cut- 
ter. Then  take  a  small  cutter  and  make 
a  small  hole  in  the  center  of  each  dough- 
nut. They  may  also  be  cut  into  square 
shar)e,  and  slashed  gently  with  the  cutter 
or  knife.  Spread  a  clean  towel  over  IJie 
table,  and  dust  it  lightly  with  flour,  and 
let  the  doughnuts  stand  upon  it  for  half 
an  hour,  being  well  covered,  either  with 
a  towel  or  some  other  cover.  Let  the 
frying  kettle  then  be  ready,  with  boiling 
fat  or  lard.  It  must  be  so  deep  that  the 
doughnuts  can  swim  in  it.  Put  the  dough- 
nuts into  the  boiling  lard,  and  let  them 
fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Do  not  stick  the 
doughnut  through  with  a  fork,  or  it  will 
fall  immediately.  "V^^hen  a  beautiful  dark 
golden  brown  drain  out  of  the  pan  with 
a  skimmer,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  hot.  You 
will    have   the   true   (Creole   "CroxIgnoUe." 

PANCAKES. 

Crepes. 

8  Eggs.     3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Cup  of  Milk. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs 
together.  Then  add  the  flour,  and  beat 
very  light.  Add  the  milk,  pouring  grad- 
ually, and  having  the  batter  no  thicker 
than  cream.  Add  the  salt,  and  mix  well. 
Now  comes  the  most  important  part,  the 
baking.  Unless  this  is  properly  done  your 
labor  has  fallen  to  naught.  Have  a  wide 
pancake  pan,  and  let  it  be  very  hot 
Grease  it  with  butter,  or.  better  still,  with 
a  piece  of  fat  bacon.  This  is  the  safest 
way,  as  you  will  not  have  a  pancake 
swimming  in  grease,  a  most  undesirable 
offering  at  anv  table.  Pour  in  batter 
sufficient  to  just  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
pan.  In  a  minute,  or  perhaps  less  time, 
the  cake  must  be  ready  to  turn  This  is 
the  critical  moment  that  the  old  Creole 
cooks  used  to  understand  so  well.  By  a 
peculiar  sleight  of  hand  that  comes  only 
by  experience,  the  cake  was  tossed  and 
caught   in    the   pan,    and   the   brown  side 


169 


was  brought  up  without  failure,  and  the 
cake  lay  just  as  smooth  as  thO'Ugh  un- 
touched. Those  who  wish  to  learn  the 
art  must  begin  slowly  at  first.  If  you 
have  never  tossed  a  pancake,  and  at- 
tempt to  do  It  before  you  have  caught 
the  trick,  as  the  old  Creoles  used  to  call 
it,  you  will  make  a  miserable  failure,  and 
have  only  a  mingled  heap  of  batter.  Go 
slowly,  and  learn.  The  old  darkies  used 
to  say,  when  one  of  their  number  could 
toss  a  "crepe"  to  the  top  of  the  chim- 
ney and  bring  it  down  again  slick  and 
smooth,  with  the  brown  side  up,  tossing 
minute  after  minute,  "like  lightning," 
that  the  woman  was  "for  sure  one  hoo- 
doo, and  the  old  devil  himself  had  taught 
her  to  toss  and  fry."  But  the  pancakes 
thus  tossed  savored  neither  of  fire  nor 
brimstone,  and,  when  rolled  up  with  in- 
finite art  and  ready  to  serve  hot  on  a 
dainty  china  dish,  many  were  the  en- 
comiums that  masters  and  mistresses  be- 
stowed upon  their  faithful  old  slaves. 
■  Crepes"  may  be  served  as  an  entree  at 
breakfast,  dinner  or  supper.  They  make 
an   excellent   luncheon    dish. 

French  Pancakes. 

Crepes  a  la  Francaise. 

8-4  Pound   of  Flour.     4  Eggs. 

1-2  Pint  of  Cold  Milk. 
4  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Sift   the    flour    into    a    bowl.     Break    in 
the   eggs;    beat  well,   and   add   one   ounce 


of  powdered  sugar.  Mix  thoroughlv  with 
a  spatula,  and  then  add  the  cold  milk* 
pouring  it  in  gradually.  Mix  well  for  six 
minutes.  Have  ready  a  clean  griddle; 
butter  lightly,  and,  when  hot,  drop  on  it 
about  two  large  spoonfuls  of  the  batter 
at  a  time.  Let  the  cakes  bake  two  min- 
utes on  each  side,  and  then  turn  and 
bake  two  minutes  on  the  other.  Turn 
the  pancake  on  a  dish ;  sprinkle  gener- 
ously with  powdered  sugar.  Continue 
baking  the  cakes  and  turning  on  the  dish, 
sprinkling  each  in  turn  with  the  pow- 
dered sugar  till  all  is  used.  The  above 
quantity  of  batter  will  make  one  dozen 
pancakes. 

French  Pancakes   With  Jelly. 

Crepes    Francaise    a    la    Gele. 

3-4  Pound    of   Flour.   4  Eggs. 
1-2  Pint  of  Cold  Milk.  • 
4    Ounces    of    Powdered    Sugar. 
1   Glass   of  Jelly. 

Prepare  the  batter  exactly  as  in  the 
above  recipe.  "When  the  pancakes  are 
nicely  cooked  arrange  them  neatly  on  a 
dish,  and  spread  over  each  a  half  table- 
spoonful  of  apple,  strawberry,  raspberry, 
currant,  peach  or  any  kind  of  jelly  de- 
sired; then  ro'll  them  up  nicely  and  dress 
on  a  dessert  dish  and  sprinkle  powdered 
white  sugar  over  them.  Send  to  the  ta- 
ble hot.  Some  glaze  the  surface  of  each 
pancake  with  a  red  hot  iron.  But  this  is 
a  matter  of  taste  and  decoration. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 
DESSERTS. 

Des  Desserts. 


Desserts  are  many  and  varied.  They 
comprise  Compotes,  Puddings,  Pies  and 
Pastry,  Cakes,  Ices,  Creams,  etc.,  all  of 
which  are  specially  treated  in  order.  Thb 
Creoles  are  famous  for  their  dainty  and 
delightful  desserts. 

COMPOTES. 
Des  Compotes. 

Compotes  are  fruits  preserved  in  very 
little  suger,  and  made  as  needed  in 
the  household.  The  fruits  are  always 
blanched,  and  a  little  sugar  is  added  for 
them  to  absorb,  and  then  they  are  put 
into  dishes,  and  the  syrup  is  poured  over 
them.  The  Creoles  often  cut  the  fruits 
into  many  pretty  shapes,  especially 
apples  and  peaches.  It  is  always  better 
to  blanch  the  fruits  in  thinned  syrup 
than  in  water.  To  preserve  the  white- 
ness of  the  peeled  fruits,  they  should  be 
peeled  as  rapidly  as  possible,  and  put 
Into  the  saucepan  with  the  water  or 
syrups  and  blanched  only  long  enough 
to  soften,  and  then  arranged  In  the  dish 
and  covered  with  the  syrup.  If  the 
fruits  are  not  ripe,  they  ought  to  be  put- 
into  syrup  over  the  fire  to  cook  a  little. 

All  Compotes  may  be  served  as  des- 
serts or  entrements. 

Gompote  of  Apples, 

Compote  de  Pommes. 

1  Dozen  Apples.    1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1-2  Cup   of   Water. 

Pare  the  apples,  cut  them  in  quarters, 
cut  out  the  cores,  and  pierce  them  sev- 
eral times,  to  drain  the  juice.  Boil  six 
apples  in  one  pound  of  sugar  and  half 
a  cup  of  water,  and  add  the  finely  cut 
peel  of  a  lemon,  together  with  the  lemon 
juice.  When  they  are  well  blanched, 
take  them  out,  without  letting  them  cook 
too    much,    and    place    them    in    a    dish. 


They  must  be  soft,  but  not  pithy.  Put 
the  apples  that  you  have  cut  into  quar- 
ters into  the  syrup,  and  let  them  boil 
to  a  jelly  in  the  juice.  Then  drain 
well,  and  pour  over  the  apples.  Sprin- 
kle with  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and 
powdered    sugar.     This    is    excellent. 

To  make  a  compote  of  whole  apples, 
first  remove  the  core  its  whole  length, 
by  inserting  a  long  tin  cutter  at  one 
end,  and  then  at  the  other  end,  and  with 
the  finger  force  the  core  out.  In  this 
way  you  will  not  split  the  apple.  Finish 
as     in    the    above    recipe. 

Stuffed    Apple,   Compote. 
Compote    de   Pommes   Farcies. 

1  Dozen  Apples.       1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1   Cup   of   Orange  or  Apricot  Marmalade. 

Cup   of   Water. 

1-4  Teaspo'Onful  of  Ground  Cinnamon. 
1-4    of   a    Grated   Nutmeg. 

Pare  fine,  large  apples,  take  out  the 
core,  and  be  careful  to  leave  the  apple 
entire.  Then  fill  the  opening  with  orange 
or  apricot  marmalade,  and  put  them 
together  in  a  pan  with  a  pound  of  clari- 
fied sugar.  Add  a  half  cup  of  water. 
Let  them  cook  soft  in  the  oven,  sprink- 
ling first  with  grated  cinnamon.  Add 
grated  nutmeg  when  done,  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold. 

Apricot    Compote. 

Compote  d*Abricots. 

1  Dozen  Apricots.  1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1-4  Pound  of  Apple  Jelly. 

Cut  the  apricots  in  two,  and  peel.  Rinse 
them  in  cold  water,  and  then  proceed  to 
cook  them  in  syrup  made  of  sugar  and 
a  little  water.  Add  a  little  Apple  Jelly 
to  the  sugar  after  you  have  taken  out 
the  apricots.  Mix  the  jelly  well  with  the 
syrup,  pour  over  the  apricots  and  serve. 


170 


Banana    Compote. 

Compote   de   Bananes. 

1  Dozen  Bananas.       1-2  Pound  of  Sugai. 

The  Juice  of  a  Half  a  Lemon. 

1-2  Cup   of   Water. 

Peel    the    Bananas    and    cut    them    Into 

halves.      Put    the    sugar    and    the    water 

on    to    boil,    and    after    ten    minutes    add 

the  lemon  juice.     Then  put  the  bananas, 

a  few  at  a  time,  into  the  hot  syrup  and 

let  them  stew  gently.     After  a  half  hour 

take  them  out,  lay  in  a  dish,  pour   over 

the    hot    liquid    syrup,    and    serve    either 

hot  or  cold. 

Compote   of  Banana   Cassa. 
Compote    de    Banane    Cassa. 

1    Banana    Cassa. 

1 1-4    Pounds    of    Granulated    Sugar. 

1   Quart   of   "Water. 

1-4  Teaspoontul  Each  of  Ground 

Allspice,  Cinnamon  and  Mace. 

1-4  Grated  Nutmeg. 

1     Teaspoonful     of     Vanilla     or     Lemon 

Extract. 

The  "Banana  Cassa"  Is  a  form  of  veg- 
etable fruit  that  is  very  much  used 
among  the  Creoles  in  making  compotes, 
etc.  It  grows  on  a  vine  similar  to  the 
gourd  of  "Mirllton,"  only,  unlike  the  lat- 
ter, it  is  considered  a  fruit,  and  is  served 
as  a  dessert.  It  is  a  long,  pear-shaped 
fruit,  resembling  the  banana  in  color  and 
odor  and  shape,  only  it  is  longer  and 
broader.  Hence  the  name,  "Banana 
Cassa."    It  is  prepared  as  follows: 

Take  the  ripe  fruit,  peel  It,  and  cut 
into  slices  of  about  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Remove  the  seeds  and  place  the  fruit  in 
a  bowl  of  water,  to  which  you  will  add 
a  small  piece  of  lime;  or  simply  Immerse 
in  lime-water.  Let  It  soak  for  three 
hours.  Then  remove  it  and  rinse  in  cold 
■water.  Prepare  a  syrup,  allowing  one 
and  a  quarter  pounds  of  granulated  su- 
gar to  one  quart  of  water,  and  when  it 
begins  to  boil  well  add  the  fruit, 
ground  spices  and  nutmeg,  and  let  all 
boll  until  the  fruit  becomes  transparent. 
If  flavoring  is  preferred  to  the  natural 
taste,  add,  according  to  taste,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Extract  of  Lemon  or  "Vanilla. 
Let  it  cool  and  serve  as  a  dessert.  It  Is 
delicious  with  "Whipped  Cream. 

Compote   of  Blackberries. 

Compote  de  Mures. 

1    Quart    of    Blackberries. 

1-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Select  tine  berries,  but  not  too  ripe. 
"Wash  them  in  cold  water,  and  drain 
through  a  sieve.  Boil  the  sugar,  and  ad4 
the  berries,  and  let  them  boll  up  once 
very  gently.  Pour  them  into  a  dish, 
pour  the  jelly  over  and  serve. 

Cherry    Compote. 

Compote  de  Cerises. 

1  Quart  of  Cherries.    3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1-4   Cup   of  Water. 

To  one  pound  of  stoned  cherries  allow 
the  above  amount  of  sugar.  Put  the 
sugar  and  water  into  a  saucepan,  and 
when  it  makes  a  syrup  add  the  cherries. 
Let  them  boil  up  several  times.  Then 
drain  them  with  the  skimming  spoon, 
and  put  them  in  a  dish,  and  add  to  the 
Juice  a  glassful  of  Currant  Jelly.  Let  it 
boil  to  a  thin  Jelly,  and  pour  It,  when 
half  cold,  over  the  cherries.  The  Currant 
Jelly  may  be  omitted  and  the  reduced 
cherry  syrup  used  alone. 


Compote  of  Cocoanut. 

Compote   de   Coco. 

1  Cocoanut,     The  Juice  of  1  Lemon 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1  Pound   of  Fine   "White   Loaf  Sugar. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  "Vanilla  Extract. 

Divide  the  cocoanut  into  quarters. 
Peel  off  all  the  brown  skin,  and  then 
soak  the  clean,  white  pieces  in  cold 
water,  with  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
a  little  salt.  Cut  them  in  thin  slices 
first,  and  then  in  thick  threadlike  shreds 
just  as  you  would  vegetables  for 
Julienne  soup.  This  must  be  done,  how- 
ever, before  soakifag  in  the  lemon  juice 
and  salt.  Then  drain  the  shreds  in  a 
clean  sieve,  and  wash  them  in  another 
water,  to  free  them  entirely  from  oil. 
Drain  well.  Boil  one  pound  of  the  finest 
white  loaf  sugar.  Then  remove  it  from 
the  fire,  and  throw  in  the  prepared 
cocoanut,  and  set  back  on  the  fire.  Let 
it  come  to  a  good  boil,  stirring  lightly 
with  a  silver  fork.  Then  lift  them  out 
with  the  fork,  after  they  have  boiled 
up  once,  and  place  the  cocoanut  shreds 
in  a  sieve.  Let  the  sugar  boil  up  well 
again.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  the 
syrup,  boil  it  very  thin,  and  then  throw 
in  the  cocoanut  shreds,  mixing  them  very 
lightly  in  the  syrup.  Separate  the  shreds 
carefully  with  two  silver  forks,  holding 
one  fork  in  each  hand;  dish  up  in  a 
raised  pile  in  a  dish;  when  cold,  pour 
over  the  clear  syrup,  flavoring  with  any 
extract  you  wish,  preferably  "Vanilla,  and 
serve. 

Compote  of  Cranberries. 

Compote  d'Airelles. 

1   Quart   of   Cranberries.     1 1-2   Pound  of 

Sugar. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon 

Wash  and  drain  the  cranberries.  Then 
boil  as  in  Cranberry  Jelly,  only  do  not 
let  the  cranberries  get  mashed.  Take 
them  out  with  a  skimmer,  and  add  a  half 
pound  of  sugar  to  the  syrup,-  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  to  a  syrup  and 
pour  over  the  berries  and  serve  cold. 

Compote  of  Currants. 

Compote  de  Groseilles- 

1  Quart  of  Currants.    3-4  Pound  of  Sugar 
1-2  Cup    of   Water. 

Select  nice  berries  and  pick  clean 
and  wash  well  in  cold  water  and  drain 
them  through  a  sieve.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  add  the  berries.  Let  them  boil  up 
once  very  gently.  Put  them  in  a  dish, 
pour    the    syrup    over    and    serve. 

Compote  of  Damsons. 

Compote  de  Prunes. 

1  Quart  of  Damsons. 
3-4  Pound  of  Sugar.       1-4  Cup  of  Water: 

Pick  off  the  stems  of  the  damsons 
and  prick  them  all  over  with  a  pin. 
Let  them  simmer  in  sugar,  which  you 
will  have  boiled  to  a  syrup  for  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Then  proceed  as  in 
a  Compote  of  Cherries.     (See  recipe.) 

Compote  of  Dried  Fruits. 

Compote    de    Fruits    Sees. 

1-2  Pound  of  Dried  Fruit. 
1-2  Pound  of  Sugar.  1-2  Cup  of  Water. 
The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
All  dried  fruits,  such  as  apples,  peaches, 
apricots,  crab  apples,  etc.,  are  prepared 
in  the  same  manner  as  compote  of  apples 
and  peaches.     Only  allow  the  dried  fruit 


171 


to  soak  In  cold  water  a  long  while, 
Bay  about  two  hours,  to  swell  up.  Then 
boll,  and  afterwards  pour  into  a  syrup  of 
boiling  sugar,  and  proceed  as  in  other 
compotes. 

Compote  of  Figs. 

Compote  de  Pigues. 

1   Quart    of    Figs.       1-2    Cup    of    TVater. 

1  Pound  of   Sugar. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Use  figs  that  are  not  quite  ripe.    Break 

off  the  stalks,   and  prick  them  all  over, 

and    let    them    simmer    in    a    syrup,    as 

above.    Then  proceed  in  exactly  the  same 

manner  as  for  Compote  of  Cherries.  (See 

recipe.) 

Figg  a  la   Creole. 

Figues  a  la  Creole. 

1  Quart  of  Ripe  Figs. 
1-2    Pound    of    Sugar. 

Stem  and  peel  and  cut  the  figs  in 
quarters^  Figs  are  always  abundant 
with  us  in  August  and  September.  Place 
in  a  dish,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  and 
serve  with  their  own  syrup,  ice  cold. 

Compote  of  liemons. 

Compote  de  Citrons. 

1-2  Dozen   Lemons. 
1  Pound  of  Sugar.       1  Cup  of  Water. 

A  Compote  of  whole  lemons  is  prepared 
in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  the  above, 
using  twice  the  amount  of  sugar,  or 
sugar  to  taste.  When  squeezed  thor- 
oughly and  boiled  they  make  an  excel- 
lent Creole  remedy  for  colds  and  coughs. 

Compote    of    Malaga    Grapes. 

Compote    de    Raisins    Blancs. 

1  Pound  of  Malaga  Grapes. 
S-4  Pound   of  Sugar.     1-2   Cup   of  Water. 

Wash  the  grapes,  then  cut  a  slit  in  the 
grape  on  one  side,  and  take  out  the 
seeds.  Put  the  fruit  in  cold  water,  and 
let  it  boil.  Take  off  the  fire,  and  let  it 
stand  uncovered  for  a  time,  and  then 
put  in  cold  water.  When  cold  lift  them 
out  with  a  skimming  spoon.  Put  the 
grapes  in  clarified  sugar,  which  you  will 
have  boiled  almost  to  a  thread,  and  let 
them  boil  up  once.  Skim  them  out  and 
put  in  a  dish.  Boil  the  sugar  to  half 
the  quantity  in  syrup,  and  poor  over, 
and   serve. 

Compote  of  Mespilns  or  Japan  Plums. 

Compote  de  Mespilus. 

1  Quart  of  Mespilus.    1 1-2  Cups  of  Water. 
3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 
Juice   of  1   Lemon. 

This  is  a  species  of  delicious  Japan 
Plum  very  common  in  our  State.  Peel, 
stone  and  proceed  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  for  Compote  of  Cherries. 
(See    Recipe.) 

Compote   of   Oranges. 

Compote  d'Oranges. 

1    Dozen    Louisiana    Oranges. 

1    Pound    of    Sugar.      The    Juice    of   Half 

a  Lemon. 

1-2  Cup   of   Water. 

Peel  the  oranges,  and  cut  them  into 
halves  crosswise,  and  take  out  the  seeds 
and  the  Inner  pulp.  Put  the  sugar  and 
the  water  on  to  boil,  and  after  ten  min- 
utes add  the  lemon  juice.  Then  put  a 
few  of  the  oranges  at  a  time  into  the  hot 
syrup,  and  let  them  stew  gently.  After 
a    half    hour    take    them    out,    lay    in    a 


dish,  pour  over  the  hot  liquid  syrup  and 
serve   either    hot    or    cold. 

Compote    of    Whole    Oranges. 

Compote    d'Oranges    Entieres. 

1    Dozen    Louisiana    Granges. 
1   Pound   of  Sugar. 

Boil  the  oranges,  with  their  peel,  gently 
in  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Turn  the 
oranges  very  thinly  and  spirally,  scoring 
out,  if  possible,  all  the  inner  pulp  and 
peeling.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the 
sugar,  and  add  the  oranges.  Let  them 
simmer  tor  twenty  minutes  longer.  Take 
off,  and  allow  the  oranges  to  remain 
in  their  juice  for  several  hours.  Dish 
them  up  in  a  compote  dish,  and  pour 
over  their  syrup  on  the  instant  of  send- 
ing to  the  table. 

Oranges  Creole  Style. 

Oranges    a    la    Creole. 

1    Dozen    Fine    Louisiana    Oranges', 
1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Peel  the  oranges  and  cut  in  slices,  and 
sprinkle  with,  sugar,  to  form  a  syrup. 
Let  them  stand  for  several  hours  in 
a  cool  place,  and  serve  either  as  a  pre- 
liminary to  breakfast  or  as  a  dessert. 
This  is  a  delightful  Creole  way  of  serving 
oranges. 

Compote   of  Peaches. 

Compote    de    Peches. 

1  Dozen  Peaches.    1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1-2  Cup  of  Water. 

Take  well-grown,  somewhat  unripe 
peaches.  Then  cut  them  in  two,  and  take 
out  the  stones;  Put  the  peaches  into 
boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  till 
they  are  soft,  and  then  throw  in  cold 
water  till  cold.  Peel  them  and  put  them 
into  the  sugar,  adding  a  little  water,  and 
let  them  boil  up  several  times.  Then 
drain  with  the  skimmer,  lifting  them  into 
the  dish  gently.  Pour  over  the  reduced 
syrup,  and  serve  with  milk  or  whipped 
cream. 

Conapote   of  Pears. 

Compote  de  Poires. 

7   Large,   Fine   Pears. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar,  The  Juice  of  a  Lemon. 

1-2  Cup  of  Water. 

'Scrape  the  pears  spirally  from  head  to 
stalk  with  a  tapering  tin  cutter,  to  take 
out  the  cores.  Then  put  the  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  of  water  on  the  fire,  and 
add  to  it  four  or  five  pears,  which  you 
will  have  cut  into  pieces.  As  this  formj3 
a  syrup  place  the  whole  pears  in  it,  and 
let  them  simmer,  adding  the  lemon  juice 
to  keep  them  white.  When  done,  place 
the  pears  in  order  in  a  dish.  Let  the 
syrup  stew  doTvn  to  a  nice  jelly,  and  then 
pour  over  and  serve.  Apple  jelly  may 
be  spread  over  the  pears  first,  and  the 
syrup  poured  afterwards.  This  increases 
the  flavor   of  this   delightful   compote. 

Compote  of  Plums. 

Compote    de    Prunes. 

1  Quart  of  Plums. 
3-4  Pound   of  Sugar,    1-2  Cup   of  Water. 

Pick  off  the  stems  of  the  plums  and 
prick  them  all  over  with  a  pin.  Let  them 
simmer  in  sugar,  which  you  will  have 
boiled  to  a  syrup  for  about  fifteen  min- 
utes. Then  proceed  as  in  a  Compote  of 
Cherries.     (See    recipe.) 


172 


Compote  of  Pineapple, 

Compote   d'Ananas. 
1  Pineapple.    1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1-2  Cup  of  Water. 
Peel    the    pineapple    and    cut    in    slices, 
very  thin.     Put  it  into  a  syrup  made   of 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  up 
once.     Take   out,   and   let  the  syrup  sim- 
mer a  few  minutes  longer,  poiir  over  the 
pineapple,  and  serve. 

Another  method  very  common  among 
the  Creoles,  and  O'ften  preferred  to  the 
former  by  many,  is  to  slice  the  pineapple 
nicely,  place  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  white  sugar,  let  the  pineapple 
form  a  natural  syrup  and  serve.  This  is 
delicious.  Some  add  Claret  or  White 
wine  to  this   compote. 

Compote    of    Plantain,    Creole    Style. 

Compote    de    Plantain    a    la    Creole. 

6  Plantains. 

1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 

The  Juice  of  iHalf  a  Lemon. 

1   Cup   of   Water. 

Peel  the  plantains  and  cut  into  halves 

or  quarters.     Put  the  sugar  and  water  on 

to   boil,   and,  after  ten  minutes,  add  the 

lemon     juice.    Then     put    the    pieces     of 

plantain,   a   few  at  a   time,   into   the   hot 

syrup,   and   let   them   stew   gently.    After 

half  an  hour,  or  forty-five  minutes,  if  not 

tender  take  them  out,  lay  in  a  dish,  pour 

over  the  hot  syrup,  and  serve  either  hot 

or  cold. 

The   plantain    is    a    variety    of   banana, 

and  may  be  prepared  in  every  manner  in 

■which  bananas  are  cooked,  such  as  fried 

bananas,    stewed    bananas,    banana    frit 

ters,  pudding,  cake  and  pie.     (See  recipe.) 

Unlike  the  banana,  however,  the  plantain 

is   never    eaten   raw,    as   it   is   a   fruit   of 

much    coarser    fiber;    but,    when    cooked, 

equals   the    banana   in    delicacy   of   taste. 

It  is  a  favorite  dish  on  Creole  tables. 

Compote  of  Plantain,   Old    Style. 

Compote  de  Plantain  a,  I'Ancienne  Mode. 

6    Plantains. 

1-2  Pound   of  Sugar. 

1    Pint    of    Rum. 

Kirsch  or  Maraschino  Sauce. 

The  following  is  a  famous  Creole  way 

of   cooking   plantains   that  has   fallen   in 

desuetude,     but    which     deserves     to     be 

resurrected  as  one  of  the  most  delightful 

methods    of    preparing    plantains:    Have 

ready   a   pile    of   hot    ashes    in   the    oven. 

Put    the    plantains     (unpeeled)     into    the 

ashes    and    cover    well    with    ashes.     Let 

them  roast  thus  for  half  an  hour;    then 

take    out,    peel,    cut    into    quarters    and 

sprinkle   with   sugar.     Set   in   the   oven   a 

few  minutes  and  serve  hot,  with  a  Rum, 

Kirsch  or  Maraschino  S'auce. 

Compote    of    Pomegranates. 

Compote  de  Grenades. 

1  Dozen  Pomegranates. 

3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1-2  Cup  of  Water. 

1     Tablespoonful     of     Orange     Juice     or 

Maraschino. 

Cut  a  circle  about  the  size  of  a  5-cent 

piece   out  of  a  peel   of  the  pomegranate, 

using  a   sharp-pointed   knife.    Then   split 


down  the  sides  of  their  skins,  and  care- 
fully remove  all  the  bright  ruby  plpa 
without  bruising  them.  Throw  these  into 
a  dish.  Make  a  syrup,  flavored  with 
orange  juice  or  Maraschino^  and  pour 
over   and   serve. 

Compote   of  Primes. 

Compote  de  Pruneaux. 

1  Pound  of  Prunes.    1-4  Pound  of  Sugar 

1  Glass  of  Claret. 

Soak  the  prunes  over  night  in  cold 
water,  and  drain.  Put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  water,  cover  the  saucepan,  ana 
let  them  boil  over  a  moderate  fire.  When 
they  begin  to  soften,  add  a  glass  of  Red 
wme  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
Let  it  boil,  stirring  frequently,  till  the 
prunes  are  cooked  well.  Then  take  them 
from  the  fire,  rub  a  niece  of  sugar  over 
an  orance  or  a  lemon,  and  when  it  is 
completely  saturated  with  the  zest  pu: 
into  a  dish,  pour  the  prunes  in  with  their 
ju;ce,  and  serve  cold. 

It  is  not  absolutely  necessary  to  soak 
the  prunes  over  night,  but  they  cook 
much  more  easily  if  you  do.  Prunes  are 
very  healthy  and  are  served  twice  a 
week  in  every  convent  in  New  Orleans. 

Stewed  prunes  are  prepared  in  exactly 
the    same    manner    as    above,    only    the 
sugar  is  put  on  with  the  prunes  and  the 
wine  is  omitted. 

Compote  of  Raspberries. 

Compote   de   Framboises. 
1    Quart    of    Raspberries.    3-4    Pound    o£ 
Sugar. 
Select    fine    Raspberries,    but    not    too 
ripe.     Wash    them    in    cold    water,    and 
drain    through    a    sieve.     Boil    the   sugar, 
and    add    the    berries,    and   let   them   boil 
up    once    very    gently.     Put    them   into   a 
dish,  pour  the  jelly  over,  and  serve. 
Strawberry  Compote. 
Compote   de   Fraises. 
1    Quart    of   Strawberries.    3-4   Pound   of 
Sugar. 
Select    fine    strawberries,    but    not    too 
ripe.     W^ash     them    in    cold    water,    and 
drain    through    a   sieve.     Boil   the   sugar, 
and  add  the  berries  and  let  them  boil  up 
once  very  gently.     Put  them  into  a  dish, 
pour  the  jelly  over  and  serve. 

HOW  TO  SERVI;  FRESH  FRUITS  AND 
DESSERTS. 

In  arranging  fruits  on  the  table,  the 
higher  they  are  elevated  the  prettier  the 
effect,  and  the  more  tempting  the  sight. 

It  is  out  of  taste  to  mix  fruits,  cakes 
and  bonbons  on  the  same  dish.  Serve 
each  in  its  own  dish,  and  these  alter- 
nating when  the  dessert  is  brought  on, 
tend  much  to  tempt  the  appetite  of  the 
guest.  Fruits  are  most  wholesome  when 
ripe,  and  form  a  part  of  the  well-regu- 
lated family  meal  for  breakfast,  as  a 
preliminary,  and  for  dinner  as  an  after 
dessert.  In  serving  the  desserts  that  are 
cooked,  always  be  careful  to  dish  them 
nicely   and    neatly. 

Always  serve  raw  fruits  ice  cold.  ThU 
end  is  easily  attained  by  placing  the 
fruit  in  an  ice  box  or  refrigerator. 


CHAPTER   XXXIII. 
PASTRY     AND   PIES. 


The  most  important  point  In  making 
pastries  of  all  kinds  is  to  make  the 
pastry  crust  of  the  proper  consistency. 
The  crust  of  pies  should  always  be  light, 
flaky  and  delicately  crisp.     To  attain  this 


Patisserie. 

end  only  the  best  flour  should  be  used. 
In  making  Puff  Paste,  always  use  Ice 
water.  In  making  pie  crust,  use  tepid 
water  if  you  wish  the  best  results. 
The    great    secret    of    all    pastry    depends 


173 


upon    the    proper    manipulation    witli   tua 
fingers. 

purr  PASTE. 

Pate    Feuilletee. 

1   Pint   of   Flour. 

1  Pound    of  Good   Butter,   or   Half   Lard 

and   Half   Butter. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

1  Cup   of   Ice   Water.     1  Egg. 

Have  the  flour  dry  and  fresh  and  the 
butter  of  the  freshest.  Wash  the  butter 
well,  till  it  becomes  clear  and  elastic  to 
the  touch,  and  cut  it  into  four  equal  parts, 
and  place  it  in  a  bowl,  which  you  will  have 
cooled  with  ice  water.  iSet  it  away  to 
cool  and  harden.  Have  your  flour  sifted 
and  ready,  and  the  egg  beaten  and  at 
hand.  Put  the  flour  into  a  bowl  and  add 
to  it  a  lump  of  butter;  work  it  with  your 
hand,  handling  always  as  lightly  as  pos- 
sible; add  the  egg,  then  salt,  and,  if  the 
paste  is  intended  for  cakes,  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar.  Work  all  well,  but  very  lightly 
with  the  fingers  and  thumb,  and  then 
gradually  add  the  ice  water,  working  It 
well  and  lightly  into  the  flour.  When 
all  is  worked  in,  knead  lightly  for  about 
five  minutes,  just  as  tho'Ugh  you  were 
making  bread.  Then  cut  the  dough  into 
halves;  sprinkle  the  board  lightly  with 
flour;  take  the  rollingpin  and  roll  the 
paste  out  very  thin,  rolling  each  half 
into  a  half  sheet.  Break  the  butter  into 
bits;  take  about  one-quarter  of  the  re- 
mainder, quickly  spread  this  over  the 
paste;  then  dredge  it  very  lightly  with 
flour  and  lay  over  it  the  other  sheet. 
Dredge  this  with  flour  lightly  and  pound 
with  the  rollingpin  lightly;  then  roll  this 
from  you  into  a  long  thin  sheet.  Spread 
a  thin  coating  of  butter  over  this,  and 
then  fold  the  paste  over  from  the  sides 
to  the  center,  and  then  back  again,  till 
you  have  three  folds.  Then  turn  and  roll 
this  again  till  quite  thin;  add  a  second 
quarter  of  butter  broken  into  bits;  dredge 
lightly  with  flour  and  fold  and  roll  as 
before,  always  in  the  same  direction — 
from  you.  Repeat  this  process,  folding 
and  rolling,  till  all  the  butter  is  used. 
Then  cut  the  paste  into  three  or  four 
parts,  according  to  quantity,  and  set  in 
the  ice  box  in  tin  plates  for  twenty  min- 
utes, or  until  you  are  ready  to  use.  It 
may  be  kept  for  several  days,  if  rolled 
in  a  napkin  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  This 
is  the  paste  used  in  making  Vol-au-Vents 
small  pates,  etc.  The  most  important 
point  is  the  baking.  The  oven  should  be 
very  hot.  If  you  have  used  all  the  best 
materials  that  wealth  can  procure,  and 
yet  do  not  have  the  oven  properly  heated, 
all  your  efforts  will  have  been  in  vain. 
Do  not  set  the  crust  too  near  the  inner 
fire  ,part  of  the  oven,  as  it  will  bake  un- 
evenly, and  one  side  will  be  higher  than 
the  other.  It  is  always  well  to  bake 
small  pates  with  a  strong  underheat,  thus 
allowing  them  to  rise  to  their  full  height 
before  ibrowning.  If  the  oven  be  too  hot, 
and  the  paste  begins  to  brown  as  soon  as 
put  in,  quickly  open  the  drafts  of  the 
stove  and  reduce  the  temperature. 

It  is  well  to  hake  the  under  crust  first 
before  putting  in  the  filling  In  meat  pies. 
In  baking  small  patties,  cut  the  dough 
out  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  leaving  the 
outer  rounds  distinct  from  the  center. 
Remove  the  center  and  cut  out  other 
little  rings,  and  place  these  one  on  top 
of  the  other,  above  the  bottom  crust, 
which  should  be  solid.  In  this  way  is 
iroduced  the  effect  of  each  section  being 
crisp  and  apparently  separate  from  the 
other.  Some  use  the  white  of  an  egg 
only;  others  omit  it  entirely.  It  is  op- 
tional. 


PIB    CRUST. 

Pate  Brisee. 

3  Cups  of  Sifted  Flour. 

11-2  Cups  of  Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Salt. 

Nearly    a    CUp    of    Tepid    Water. 

This  quantity  will  make  crusts  and 
coverings  for  three  ordinary  pies.  Rub 
the  ilour  and  butter  very  lightly  together, 
being  careful  not  to  allow  it  to  harden 
under  touch;  keep  on  kneading  a  littli 
butter  at  a  time  into  the  flour  till  you 
have  used  up  all  and  the  dough  feels 
greasy  to  the  touch.  Always  remember 
to  add  the  salt  before  putting  in  the  but- 
ter. iS'ome  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
but  the  sweetened  filling  will  be  gen- 
erally found  sufficient.  Then  add,  little 
by  little,  the  water,  kneading  gently,  till 
you  have  a  nice,  soft  dough,  lifting  out 
the  portion  that  is  wet  and  continuing  to 
knead  as  you  mix  the  flour  and  water. 
Always  be  very  careful  in  adding  the 
water,  and  never  wet  the  flour  twice  in 
the  same  place.  Mix  all  together  lightly 
with  your  hands  when  all  is  moistened, 
using  always  your  own  good  judgment 
in  adding  water.  Do  not  work  the  dough, 
simply  mix  lightly  and  thoroughly,  and 
then  dredge  the  board  lightly  with  the 
flour.  If  you  intend  to  make  two  pies, 
cut  the  dough  into  four  parts.  Turn  the 
paste  out  upon  the  board  and  roll  lightly 
and  quickly  into  long,  thin  sheets.  Use 
as  little  flour  as  possible  in  rolling,  as 
your  dough  will  grow  tough  the  more  you 
work  it,  and  the  more  you  add  flour  and 
roll  it.  Remember  always  that  the  less 
flour  used  in  rolling,  the  tenderer  will 
be  the  paste.  Therefore  always  cut  the 
dough  in  as  many  sections  as  you  intend 
to  make  pies,  allowing  for  an  upper  and 
an  under  crust;  this  will  obviate  the 
necessity  of  rolling  it  again.  Take  the 
pie  pans  immediately,  and  place  a  sheet 
of  dough  over  each,  and  trim  the  edges 
nicely.  Set  in  the  stove,  let  them  bake 
lightly,  and  then  add  the  filling  of  fruits. 
Place  a  light  thin  cover  of  crust  over 
them,  and  trim  the  edges;  decorate  the 
edges  prettily,  using  the  end  of  a  fork 
or  spoon,  and  set  in  the  hot  oven  to  bake 
quickly.  When  done,  set  to  cool.  Sprinkle, 
when  cool,  with  powdered  white  sugar, 
rolling  the  loaf  sugar  into  a  powder, 
rather  than  using  the  pulverized,  if  yoi- 
wish  an  elegant  taste. 

Paste  made  with  lard  may  be  used  for 
meat  pies  and  dumplings,  and  for  stews 
and  chicken,  when  cooked  with  dump* 
lings.  Only  roll  very  thin.  Some  person? 
use  lard  for  pie  crust.  This  is  to  be  dep- 
recated. The  crust  will  never  have  the 
same  flavor  as  when  made  with  butter. 
Others,  again,  mix  the  butter  and  lard. 
This,  too,  is  to  he  condemned  if  you  wish 
for  the  best  results.  ,  ,    , 

If  any  pie  crust  is  left,  do  not  think 
of  throwing  it  away.  Take  all  the  bits 
left  from  cutting  around  the  edges  of 
the  pie  pans;  roll  very  thin  into  small 
squares;  bake  lightly,  and  save  for  tea  or 
luncheon.  Put  a  spoonful  of  orange,  pine- 
apple, lemon  or  raspberry  jelly  on  each 
square,  and  they  will  be  found  delicious. 

FOUNDATION    PASTE. 

Pate    a    Foncer. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour.     1-2  Pint  of  Water. 

1    Ounce    of    Butter.     1-2   Teaspoonful 

of   Salt. 

Sift  the  flour  well;  mix  with  the  salt; 
then  rub  the  flour  and  butter  lightly 
together,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  hard- 
en    under     the     touch.     When     the     but- 


174 


ter  and  flour  are  well  kneaded,  add  the 
water  gradually,  kneading  little  by  little, 
till  well  kneaded.  Do  not  work  the 
dough;  simply  mix  lightly  and  tho''- 
oughly.  Flour  the  table  lightly,  turn  the 
paste  out  upon  it,  and  press  in  the  center 
and  around  the  edges,  repeating  this 
operation  three  or  four  times.  Then  flat- 
ten the  paste,  lay  on  a  dish  and  cover 
with  a  towel  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till 
ready  to  use,  which  should  be  in  about 
twenty-five  minutes,  at  least. 

PLAIN    PASTE    FOB    DUMPMNG8. 

Pate    a    Dresser. 

2    Cups   of   Sifted    Flour. 

1  Large  Heaping  Kitchenspoonful  of 

Butter    cr    Lard. 

3-4  Cup   of  Tepid   Water. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Blend  the  salt  and  the  flour,  and  then 
gradually  mix  In  the  butter,  if  for  apple 
dumplings  or  rolls.  Use  lard  if  intended 
for  dumplings  for  chicken  stews,  veal 
stewTs,  etc.  Follow  the  same  directions 
given  for  making  pie  paste.  Add  the  wa- 
ter by  degrees,  using  good  judgment  al- 
ways, and  lifting  the  dough  out  as  yc-u 
wet  it,  never  wetting  twice  in  the  same 
place.  Mix  and  knead  lightly,  and  then 
sift  a  light  coating  of  flour  on  the  board, 
and  roll  out  with  the  rolling  pin,  and  use 
for  all  purposes  in  this  book  where  Plain 
Paste  is  indicated.  If  necessary  to  keep 
the  paste  awhile,  place  in  a  napkin  in 
the  ice  box.  But  do  no-t  use  ice  water  in 
mixing  it,  or  you  will  have  a  tough 
dough.  To  attain  perfect  success  in  mak- 
ing all  pastes,  mix  quickly,  knead  slight- 
ly, roll  quickly  and  bake  rapidly,  using" 
always  as  little  flour  as  oossible  in 
rolling.     Never    beat    pie    crust    or    plain 

fiaste.  Tou  will  harden  it  and  make  it 
ust  the  reverse  of  the  light,  palatable 
paste  you  desire.  Use  above  paste  for 
chicken  dumplings,  meat  dumplings  and 
apple  dumplings,  rolling  out  the  dough 
exceedingly  thin  in  small  pieces  of  about 
two  and  a  half  inches  in  length,  one  in 
width,  and  at  least  one-eighth  of  an  inch 
in  thickness. 

Apple  Pie. 

Tarte    aux    Pommes. 

4  Large  Apples   (tart).    1  Cup  Sugar. 

1     Teaspoonful     Sweet     Spices,     Blended 

Equally. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water. 

1  Tablespoonful  Butter, 

Pare  and  slice  the  apples  nicely.  Then 
put  them  in  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan, 
and  let  them  stew  gently,  adding  the 
water  and  the  butter.  Season  well  with 
a  little  ground  cinnamon,  mace  and  all- 
spice. When  done,  take  off  and  allow  to 
cool  a  little.  Make  a  flaky  pie  crust  (see 
recipe),  and  line  the  tin  plates,  after 
greasing  slightly  with  butter,  and  bake 
the  bottom  crust  slightly  brown.  Take 
out  and  fill  in  with  the  apples,  and  then 
cover  the  top  with  a  thin  layer  of  crust. 
Decorate  the  edges,  and  set  In  the  oven 
to  bake.  When  a  nice,  delicate  brown, 
take  out  and  let  them  cc-ol.  Remove  from 
the  tin  plate  by  slightly  loosening  the 
outer  edge  with  a  knife.  Turn  over  into 
a  china  plate,  sprinkle  with  white  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  serve  cold  or  hot.  A 
pie  is  always  better  served  cold  when 
made  of  fruit. 

The  above  Is  the  general  rule  to  be  ob- 
served In  making  pies.  Sometimes  the 
pies  are  left  open,  being  covered  with 
tiny  strips  of  paste.  This  is  a  matter  of 
taste.  Utilize  odd  bits  of  paste  and  fruits 
thus. 


Apple  Tarts. 

Tartlettes    aux    Pommes. 

4    Ounces    of    Pie    Paste.    3    Ounces    of 

Apple  Marmalade.    3  Apples. 

2  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Water." 

Prepare  the  Pie  Paste  (see  recipe),  and 
line  six  tart  molds  with  it.  Peel  and 
core  the  apples  and  cut  Into  quarters, 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of 
cold  water.  Let  them  cook  on  a  hot 
stove  for  ten  minutes.  Then  remove  and 
drain,  and  let  cool  for  half  an  hour.  Then 
cut  the  quarters  into  three  slices  each" 
line  the  bottom  of  the  molds  with  the 
marmalade,  divided  evenly-;  arrange  tha 
sliced  apples  nicely  over  the  marmalade 
and  dredge  nicely  with  two  ounces  of 
powdered  sugar.  Set  in  a  baking  dish 
and  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  or  a  half 
hour  if  necessary,  in  a  moderate  oven 
Take  out  and  spread  nicely  with  apple 
marmalade  and  serve. 

A  simpler  way  is  as  follows:  Pare  and 
quarter  the  apples.  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  sugar.  Make  a  pie  crust;  roll  into 
small  bits?  place  the  apples  in  the  open 
crust,  fold  over,  fasten  by  pressing  In 
an  ornamental  way  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  apples 
are  very  tender. 

Apple    Meringue   Pie. 

Tartes  de  Pommes  Meringues. 
4  Large  Apples.     3-4  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Teaspoonful   of  Sweet   Spices,   Blended 
Equally. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water. 

Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  or  Lemon 
Essence. 

Peel,  slice  and  stew  ripe,  juicy  apples, 
and  mash  them  through  a  sieve.  Season 
with  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  using  the 
proportion  all  through  this  recipe  given 
in  Apple  Pie.  (See  recipe.)  Fill  the  pie 
plates  with  the  crust,  bake  and  fill  with 
the  stewed  apples.  L«t  them  bake  for 
about  twenty  minutes,  and  then  spread 
over  the  top  a  thick  meringue,  made  by 
beating  the  whites  of  three  eggs  for 
each  pie,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  if  you  desire  a  deep, 
rich  meringue;  otherwise,  allow  the  white 
of  one  e^g  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and 
continue  beating  till  it  will  stand  alone. 
Cover  the  pies  with  this  meringue  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  or  one-quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  according  to  quantity  used; 
set  in  the  stove  and  let  brown,  and  eat 
cold. 

Banana   Pie. 

Tarte  de  Bananes. 

4  Large  Bananas. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

t    Teaspoonful   of   Sweet   Spices,   Blended 

Equallv. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Water. 

Peel,  slice  and  stew  the  bananas  and 
mash  through  a  sieve.  Prepare  a  Pie 
Paste  and  pro<;eed  as  in  Apple  Pie.  (See 
recipe.) 

Banana    Meringue    Pie. 

Tarte  de  Bananes  Meringues. 

4  Large  Bananas. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Sweet  Spices. 

Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Vanilla   Essence. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 


175 


Peel,  slice  and  stew  the  bananas  and 
mash  through  a  sieve;  then  proceed  as  in 
directions  for  Apple  Meringue  Pie.  (See 
recipe.) 

Blackberry    Pie. 

Tarte  de  Mures. 

1  Quart  of  Blackberries.    1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1    Teaspoonful     of     Sweet    Bpices.     2 

Tablespoonfuls   of   Water. 

Stew  the  blackberries  and  proceed  in 
exactly  the  same  manner  as  for  Apple 
Pie,  using  the  same  proportions  for  two 
pies.     (See  recipe.) 

Cherry  Pie. 
Tarte    de   Cerises. 

1  Quart  of  Cherries.     1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of   Water. 

All  fruit  pies  are  best  when  the  fruit 
is  previously  cooked.  Stew  the  cherries 
gently,  as  for  a  marmalade,  and  prepare 
the  pie  crust  according  to  directions,  and 
porceed  as  in  directions  for  making  pies. 

Chocolate  Cream  Fie, 

Tarte   a   la  Creme   de   Chocolat. 

2  Quarts  of  Milk. 

1-4  of  a   Cake    of  Vanilla   or   French 

Chocolate. 

3-4   Cup   of  "WTiite   Sugar. 

6    Eggs.     2   Teaspoonfuls    of    Vanilla. 

First  dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  little 
milk,  and  then  stir  into  the  boiling  milk. 
Let  it  boil  a>bout  four  minutes.  Then  set 
to  cool.  When  almost  cool,  add  the  yolks 
of  all  the  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three, 
saving  the  remainder  for  the  meringue 
Stir  these  eggs  "well  into  the  chocolate, 
and  add  the  essence  of  vanilla.  Then 
put  Into  pie  pans,  in  which  you  will  al- 
ready have  baked  the  under  crust.  Set 
In  the  oven  and  let  the  custard  grow  to 
a  "set"  state.  When  half  done,  spread 
over  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  have 
been  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Let 
the  pies  brown  lightly,  and  serve  cold. 
By  baking  the  ahove  preparation,  with- 
out the  paste,  in  cups  set  in  boiling  wa 
ter,  you  will  have  a  Chocolate  Cup  Cus- 
tard. 

Cocoannt  Pie, 
Tarte    de    Coco. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.     1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Cup   of   Grated    Cocoanut.    2  Eggs. 

1-2  of  a   Grated  Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light.  Add  the 
sugar  and  beat  with  the  eggs  until  verj' 
light.  Add  the  grated  nutmeg,  and 
finally  the  cocoanut.  Make  a  pie  crust 
(see  recipe),  using  half  the  quantity,  a.s 
a  cocoanut  pie  is  always  an  uncovered 
pie.  Fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in 
the  oven  for  about  half  an  hour. 

Creole   Cocoanut   Pie. 

Tarte  de  Coco  a  la  Creole. 

1-2    Pound    of    Grated    Cocoanut. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Melted    Butter. 
1-4  Pound  of  White  Powdered  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  6  Eggs. 

1    Glass    of   White   Wine. 

1    Pint    of    Milk. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Vanilla. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  light 
cream,  and  then  add  the  wine  and  the 
essence  of  vanilla.  Gradually  add  the 
cocoanut,  beating  in  as  lightly  as  pos- 
sible. Add  the  scalded  milk,  which  has 
been  allowed  to  cool,  and  finally  beat  in 
lightly  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  have 


been  whipped  to  a  very  stiff  froth.  Do 
this  latter  with  a  few  swift  strokes,  so 
that  the  cocoanut  may  stand  out  fresh 
and  flaky,  like  snow.  Bake  in  pie  crusta 
which  have  already  been  set  in  the  oven. 
Serve  cold,  sprinkling  over  white  pow- 
dered sugar.  This  is  a  famous  Creole 
pie. 

Cream  Pie. 

Dariole. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.     The  Whites  of  Four 

Eggs. 

1    Tablespoonful    Flour.     1-2    Cup    Sugar 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Vanilla   Essence  or 

Lemon  Juice. 

Blend  the  flour  and  butter  well  to- 
gether, and  when  light  add  the  milk 
gradually.  Cornstarch  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  flour.  Add  the  essence  of 
vanilla  or  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  then 
^°i,'he  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Stir  them  well  into  the  hoU- 
mg  mixture,  and  then  fill  the  pie  pans 
which  you  have  filled  with  crust,  baked 
according  to  directions.  Place  in  the  oven 
and  bake  until  a  nice  brown.  A  cream 
pie  should  be  served  very  cold. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

Tarte    d'Airelles. 

11-2  Pints   of   Cranberries.    1   Cup   of 
S'ugar. 
Plain   Pie   Crust. 
Cook  the  cranberries  as  for  Cranberry 
Sauce.     (See   recipe.)     Do    not  strain   the 
berries.     Prepare  the  pie  crust.     Bake  the 
lower  crust,  and   fill  with  the  fruit,  and 
proceed  as  in  general  directions  for  mak- 
ing pies  given  under  the  heading  "Apple 
Pie.      A  cranberry  pie,  properly  made,  is 
one  of  the  most  delicious  of  all  pies. 
Custard  Pie. 
Plan. 

1    Pint    of    Milk.     3    Eggs.     1-4    Cup    of 

Sugar. 

Vanilla  or  Lemon  Extract. 

A  Pinch   of  Salt. 

Line  the  pie  pans  with  the  pie  crust. 
(See  recipe.)  Beat  the  eggs  llghtlv  in  a 
bowl.  Add  the  sugar  and  the  flavoring 
extract.  Set  the  milk  to  boil  in  a  farina 
boiler.  When  it  boils,  pour  it  gently  upon 
the  eggs,  and  stir  till  all  is  thoroughly 
blended.  Then  fill  the  pie  pans  with  this 
filling.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
bake   for  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes. 

Currant  Pie. 

Tarte  de  Grc-seilles  Rouges. 

1-2  Pint  of  Currants.     1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

Plain  Pie  Paste. 

Clean  and  pick  and  wash  the  currants 
well;  drain  nicely,  and  then  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  one-half  cup  of  sugar. 
Stew  nicely,  and  then  proceed  as  in  the 
directions  given  for  making  Apple  Pie. 
(See    recipe.) 

Frangipani. 
Frangipane. 

3    Ounces   of   Shelled  Almonds.     3   Table- 
spoonfuls of  Powdered  Sugar. 
2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Melted   Butter. 
2    Eggs. 
1-2    Spoonful    of    Ground    Cinnamon. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 
1-2   Gill   of  Rum. 

Prepare  a  pie  paste,  and  peel  three 
ounces  of  shelled  almonds  Then  put 
them  into  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste, 
with  the  powdered  sugar  and  a  raw  egg. 


176 


When  reduced  to  a  very  fine  paste,  add 
the  melted  butter,  ground  cinnamon  and 
the  orange  flower  water.  Beat  the  yolk 
of  an  egjr  well,  and  then  beat  the  white 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  mix  thoroughly.  Now 
add  the  rum  and  mix  again.  Line  the 
pie  pans  with  the  pie  paste,  and  fill  witli 
the  preparation  of  almonds.  iSet  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  thirty-five  or  forty 
minutes;  then  set  to  cool  for  a  half  hour. 
In  the  meantime  prepare  a  "Glace  a 
I'Eau,"  as  follows:  Put  one  ounce  of 
white  granulated  sugar  into  a  saucepan, 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water, 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Take  off  the 
fire  and  add  immediately  a  tablespoonful 
of  curacoa;  mix  thoroughly,  and  then 
glaze  the  surface  of  the  cake  with  this. 
Let  it  cool  and  send  to  the  table. 

Oooseberry    Pie. 

Tarte   de  Groseilles  Blanches. 

1    Quart    of    Gooseberries.    1 3-4    Cups    of 
Sugar. 
A  Plain  Pie  Paste. 
Top    and    tail    the    gooseberries.     Line 
two    deep    pie    dishes    with    a    plain    Pie 
Paste   (see  recipe);    fill  with  berries;   add 
nearly  one  cup  of  sugar  to  each  pie,  and 
proceed  as   in  recipe   for  Apple  Pie.    'S'et 
in    the    oven    and    let    the    pies    bake    for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.     If  the  goose- 
berries are  stewed  as  blackberries  it  will 
require  less  time  to  bake. 

Greengage    Pie. 

Tarte  de  Reine-Claude. 

8   Ripe    Greengages.     3    Ounces    of   Apple 

Marmalade. 

1-2   Pound    of   Feuilletage   Paste. 

Prepare  a  half  pound  of  Feuilletage 
Paste  (see  recipe)  and  line  six  tart  molds 
with  it.  Then  spread  nicely  on  the  bot- 
tom of  each  three  ounces  of  Apple  Mar- 
malade. (See  recipe.)  Take  the  green- 
gages, wipe  well  and  remove  the  stones; 
cut  into  quartered  pieces  and  lay  nicely 
over  the  marmalade.  Sprinkle  two  ounces 
of  powdered  sugar  evenly  over  them  in 
a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Remove;  let  cool;  spread 
apple  marmalade  nicely  over  the  top  and 
send  to  the  table. 

Huckleberry    Fie. 
Tarte  de  Mures  de  Ronce. 

1    Quart    of    Huckleberries.    1-2    Cup    of 

Sugar. 

A  Plain  Pie  Crust. 

In    making    this    delicious    pie,    proceed 

in    the    same    manner    as    in    the    recipe 

given  for  Cherry  Pie.     (See  recipe.) 

liemon    Fie. 

Tarte   de   Citron. 

11-2  Cups  of  Sugar.    1  Cup  of  Water. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Corn  Starch   or  2   of 

Flour. 

2  Eggs.    1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

The   Juice   and   Inner   Fruit   and  Zest   of 

Two  Grated  Lemons. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream: 
add  the  eggs,  the  yolks  and  the  white 
beaten  separately,  and  then  add  the  hot 
water  and  the  juice  and  meat  of  the 
lemon  and  the  grated  zest.  Moisten  the 
flour  or  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  wa- 
ter, and  stir  into  the  mixture.  Line  the 
pie  pans  with  plain  paste  or  pie  crust. 
(See  recipe.)  Bake  the  under  crust  a 
few  minutes.  Then  fill  the  pans  with 
the  mixture,  cover  with  an  upper  crust, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  half  an 
hour, 

Or  cook  the  custard   first,   as  many  of 


the  Creoles  do,  declaring  that  thus  they 
reach  better  results.  Boil  the  water,  ana 
then  wet  the  flour,  or  cornstarch,  with  a 
litle  cold  water,  blending  thoroughly.  Stic 
this  into  the  water,  and  let  all  come  to 
the  boiling  point.  Then  add  the  sugar, 
and,  if  you  wish,  the  butter.  Let  it  boil 
up  once.  Take  off,  and  add  immediately 
the  beaten  eggs,  and  set  to  cool.  Then 
add  the  lemon  juice  and  grated  lemon 
zest,  stirring  well.  Bake  the  under  crust 
of  the  pie  fill  with  this  mixture,  and  set 
in  the  oven  to  brown  nicely.  This  should 
be  an  open  pie.  Indeed,  all  lemon  pie9 
should  be  open,  as  custard  pies  always 
are.  The  above  measurements  will  make 
two  pies. 

Lemon  Meringue  Fie. 

Tarte    de    Citron    Meringuee. 

1 1-2  Cups  of  Milk  or  Water. 

1 1-2  Cups  of  White  Sugar.     3  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Flour  or  Cornstarch. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  White 

S'ugar. 

The  Juice  and  Grated  Zest  of  2  Lemons. 

Have  ready  the  pie  pans,  with  th» 
baked  crust.  Beat  the  sugar  and  the 
yolks  well  together,  and  add  the  juice 
and  grated  zest  of  the  lemons.  Blend 
the  flour  and  milk  gradually,  and  pour 
it  through  a  sieve  into  the  eggs.  Mix 
thoroughly.  Fill  the  lined  pans  with 
this,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Add  gradually 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar 
to  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beating  steadily 
all  the  time,  and  when  it  is  all  absorbed 
beat  it  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place  this  over 
the  top  of  the  pie  by  spoonfuls,  and  then 
smooth  lightly  with  the  spoon,  place  in 
the  oven,  and  let  it  brown.  This  is  a  de- 
licious pie. 

Mince  Fie. 

Pate   de   Noel. 

3  Pounds  of  Beef,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 

1  Pound  of  Beef  or  Mutton  Suet. 

4  Pounds  of  Apples,  Pared  and  Chopped. 

2     Jr-ounds     of    Raisins,    Seeded    and 

Chopped. 

1  Pound  of  Sultana  Raisins,  Picked  and 

Washed, 

2  Pounds      of     Currants,      Picked     and 

Washed. 

1  Pound  of  Citron,  Cut  Very  Fine. 
1-2   Pound    of   Lemon    Peel,    Grated  Very 

Fine. 

2  Pounds  of  Brown  Sugar. 

Pound  of  Candied  Lemon  Peel,  if  Desired. 

2  Grated  Nutmegs. 

1  Tablespoonful   Each   of  Ground  Cloves 

and  Allspice. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Ground  Mace. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Fine  Salt. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Ground    Cinnamon. 
1   Quart  of  Good   Sherrv  or  Madeira. 

1   Quart   of  the   Best   Brandy. 

The   Juice   of  2   Lemons. 

The   Juice    of   2    Oranges,   and   the   Rind, 

Grated    Fine. 

The  meat  should  be  good  and  lean,  and 
should  be  boiled  the  day  before  needed, 
or  early  in  the  morning,  and  allowed  to 
cool.  In  boiling  the  meat,  plunge  it  into 
boiling  (not  cold)  water,  for  the  boiling 
water  enables  it  to  retain  its  juices.  Boil 
steadily  till  tender.  Then  stand  away  to 
cool.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  and  clear 
away  all  gristle  and  skin.  Shred  the 
suet,  and  chop,  or,  rather,  mince  It  very, 
very  fine.  Then  pare  and  core  the  apples, 
and  chop  very  fine.  Stone  the  raisins, 
and  cut  the  citron  fine.  Many  prefer  to 
leave  out  the  candied  lemon.  That  is 
according  to  taste.  The  mince  meat  is 
heavier  with  it.    The  taste  is  much  more 


177 


delicate  and  the  pie  mucli  more  digestible 
without.  Grate  the  orange  and  lemon 
peel  very  fine.  Then  mix  the  meat  and 
sent  together,  chopping  again,  and  add. 
all  the  ingredients,  mixing  well  together. 
Add  the  juices  of  the  lemon  and  orange, 
and  the  grated  -  rinds,  and  then  mix  all 
well  again,  and  pack  in  a  stone  jar.  Pour 
over  this  the  quart  of  Brandy,  and  the 
wine,  and  cover  very  tightly,  and  set  in 
a  very  cool  place.  Mince  meat  made  in 
this  manner  should  keep  all  winter.  The 
Creoles  generally  begin  to  make  it,  like 
their  fruit  cakes,  just  before  Thanksgiv- 
ing time,  and  set  it  away,  having  re- 
course to  it  for  Christmas  and  New 
Year's  pies,  or  whenever  needed.  When 
ready  to  use  the  meat,  dish  out  the  quan- 
tity you  desire,  and  thin  to  the  desired 
consistency  with  good  Sherry  or  Madeira 
wine.  Be  very  careful  in  picking  the  cur- 
rants carefully,  seeding  out  all  grains  of 
sand  or  dirt  and'  pieces  of  twigs  of  trees. 
Wash  them  very,  very  carefully,  in  cold 
water,  separating  the  good  from  the  bad, 
and  the  great  quantity  of  refuse  that  al- 
ways lurks  in  bought  currants. 

The  Creoles  often  use  the  fresh  beef 
tongue  or  the  heart  of  the  beef,  well 
chapped  and  boiled,  in  making  this  mince 
meat.  The  filet  of  beef  is  best.  Mince 
meat  made  in  this  manner  never  need 
cause  dyspepsia.  If  the  housekeeper  is 
careful  in  using  it,  and  in  properly  keep- 
ing it,  it  need  not  be  made  more  than 
once  or  twice  during  the  winter.  I,t 
should  be  made  at  least  twenty-four 
hours  before  using. 

To  make  the  pies,  line  the  bottom  of 
the  pie  pans  with  the  pie  crust,  bake  the 
bottom  layer,  and  then  fill  with  the 
mince  meat.  Cover  the  pies  with  a  thin 
crust,  or  leave  open  if  preferred;  bake 
till  a  nice,  delicate  brown,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  white  sugar,  and  serve  hot.  Mince 
pies  kept  from  day  to  day  should  be 
warmed  over  before  serving. 

Plain    Mince   Pie. 

Pate   de  Noel   Simple. 

A  plain  mince  meat  for  every  day  use 
may  be  made  as  follows: 

2    Pounds     of    Meat.       2 1-2    Pounds     of 

Apple. 

2  Pounds   of   Seeded   Raisins. 

2  Pounds  of  Currants.    1  Pint  of  Brandy. 

1-2  Pint   of  'Good   Sherry. 

1  Teaspoonful  Each  of  Cinnamon,  Cloves, 

Nutmeg  and  Mace,  Grated. 

2  Pounds  .of  Brown  Sugar. 

The    Juice    and    Rind    of    1    Lemon.     The 

Juice  and  Rind  of  1  Orange. 

3-4  Pound  of  Mutton  or  Beef  Suet. 

1-2  Pound  of  Chopped  Citron. 

Proceed  to  prepare  the  meat  and  the 
pies  as  in  above  recipe. 

lienten    Mince    Pies. 

Pate  de  Noel  au  Careme. 

4  Pounds  of  the  Best  Apples,   Cored  and 
Minced. 

2  Pounds  of  Raisins,  Stoned  and  Minced. 

8  Hard-Boiled  Eggs,  Chopped  Fine. 
1  Teaspoonful  Bach  of  Ground  Spices,  as 
Above. 
Juice  and  Rind  of  2  Lemons,  Grated. 
The    Juice     of     an     Orange,     and     Rind, 
Grated. 
2  Pounds  of  Currants. 
2  Pounds  of  Sugar,  or  Sugar  to  Taste. 
1-2  Pint  Each  of  Brandy  and  Sherry. 
Mix  all  well  together  in  lesser  propor- 
tions,  according   to   the   number   of   nies 
you  wish  to  make,  and  proceed  as  above. 
(See  recipe  Mince  Pie.) 


Molasses    Fie. 

Tarte   de  Melasse. 

2  Cups  of  New  Orleans  Molasses. 

1-2  Cup  of  (Sugar. 

The  Juice  of  2  Lemons.     3  Eggs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    Each    of    Nutmeg    and 

Cinnamon. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Butter. 

Blend  the  lemon  juice  and  molasses 
well,  and  gradually  beat  in  the  flour, 
which  you  will  have  moistened  with  a 
little  water.  Then  add  the  spices  and 
the  butter,  melted,  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  very  light  with  the  sugar. 
Finally,  add  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Mix  well.  Line  the  pie  pans  with 
a  pie  crust  (see  recipe),  bake,  fill  with 
the  mixture,  and  bake  again  for  half  an 
hour.  One-quarter  of  a  cup  of  vinegar 
may  be  substituted  for  the  lemon  iulce, 
but  always  use  the  latter  if  you  have  It. 

Orange    Pie. 

Tarte   d' Oranges. 

2     Fine     Louisiana     Oranges     and     Their 

Juice. 

The    Rind    of   1    Orange,    Grated. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1   Tablespoonful   of   Cornstarch.    3   Eggs. 

1  Cup  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1-2    Teaeupful   of   Boiling   Water. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Then  blend  the  cornstarch  with  suffi- 
cient cold  water  to  moisten  and  mix  well, 
and  stir  into  the  teacup  of  water,  which 
should  be  boiling  in  a  saucepan.  Let  it 
cook,  stirring  constantly,  for  two  minutes 
only.  Then  add  the  butter  and  sugar, 
and  stir  well.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Line  the  pie  plates  with  pie  crust  (see 
recipe),  and  bake  the  under  crust.  Add 
the  custard,  and  let  it  get  slightly  brown 
in  the  oven.  Then  take  out,  and  spread 
over  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
fine  white  powdered  sugar.  Let  it  bake 
for  about  three  minutes  longer  in  a  quick 
oven,  and  serve  cold.  The  meringue  on 
top  must  be  slightly  browned. 

Peach  Fie. 

Tarte   de   Peches. 

1  Dozen  Larpre  Peaches.    1  Cup  of  Sugar. 
A  Plain  Paste. 

Pare  and  cut  the  peaches  into  slices. 
Stew  the  peaches  and  proceed  in  exactly 
the  same  manner  as  for  Apple  Pie.  (See 
recipe.)  Sprinkle  the  tops  of  the  covers 
with  fine  white  powdered  sugar  when 
ready  to  serve. 

Peach   Meringue   Fie, 
Tarte   de   Peches   Meringuees. 

1  Dozen  Peaches.     Sugar  to  Taste. 

Whites    of   6   Eggs.    6   Tablespoonfuls    of 

Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Pare  and  stone  the  peaches,  and  stew 
according  to  recipe.  (S'ee  recipe  Stewed 
Apples  or  Peaches.)  Line  the  bottoms  of 
two  pie  pans  with  a  rich  pie  crust,  and 
then  fill  in  with  the  peaches,  which  you 
will  have  sweetened  to  taste.  Bake  in  a 
quick  o%'en  twenty  or  twenty-five  min- 
utes. Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  the  sugar,  which  should 
be  fine  white  powdered.  Add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla.  When  the  meringue  ca?i 
stand  alone,  cover  the  tops  of  the  pies 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  after 
baking,  and  set  back  in  the  oven  to  bake 


178 


for  two  or  .three  minutes,  to  a  nice,  deli- 
cate brown. 

All  fruit  meringue  pies  are  made  In 
the   same   way. 

Pear   Pie. 

Tarte    de    Poires. 

6    Fine    Pears. 

1-2    Cup    of  tSugar.     2    Tablespoonfuls    of 

Water. 

A    Plain    Paste. 

Peel  and  core  and  slice  six  fine  pears. 
Put  them  in  a  vessel  with  the  sugar  and 
water,  and  stew.  Prepare  a  plain  paste, 
and  proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  for  Apple  Pie.     (See  recipe.) 

Pineapple  Fie. 

Tarte    d'Ananas. 

1  Fine  Pineapple.     1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 
A  Plain  Pie  Paste. 

Peel  and  slice  into  very  fine,  thin 
slices  one  pineapple.  Place  with  the  .1uice 
in  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar,  and  stew 
slightly.  Prepare  a  plain  pie  paste,  and 
proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  for  Apple 
Pie.     (See  recipe.) 

Plantain  Pie, 
Pate  de  Plantain. 

2  Plantains. 

1-2  C^p  of  Sugar. 

A  Plain  Paste. 

Peel,  slice  and  stew  the  plantains,  and 
proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  for  Apple 
Pie.     (See    recipe.) 

Plantain    Meringue    Pie. 

Pate    de    Plantain    Meringue. 

2  Plantains. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Sweet  iSpices. 

Whites   of  3  Eggs. 

1    Tablespoonful    o-f  Vanilla    Essence. 

Peel,  slice  and  stew  the  plantains,  mash 
through  a  sieve,  and  proceed  as  in  recipe 
for  Apple  Meringue  Pie.     (See  recipe.) 

Fnmpkin  Pie. 

Tarte  de  Citroullle. 

Use  the  delicate  Cashaw  for  this  pie. 
Take 

1   Pint   of   Mashed,   Stewed   Pumpkin. 

1     Pint     of     Milk.     3     Tablespoonfuls     of 

Butter. 

4  Eggs.     1   Cup   of  Sugar. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    Each    of   Ground    Mace, 

(Ilinnamon    and    Allspice. 

Boil  a  quart  of  pumpkin,  cut  into  dice- 
shaped  pieces,  putting  it  on  with  Just 
enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  say 
about  a  ouarter  of  a  cupful.  Let  it  stew 
slowly  for  an  hour,  at  least,  or  until 
tender.  Then  drain  and  press  through 
a  colander.  Add  a  good  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  well  and  let  It  cool.  When 
cool  put  the  pumpkin,  using  one  pint. 
Into  a  large  bowl,  and  add  the  pint  of 
milk,  the  ground  spices,  and  mix  all  well 
together,  and  add  the  above  amount  of 
sugar,  or  sugar  to  taste.  Then  beat  four 
eggs  well  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  Brandy,  if  desired.  Line 
the  pie  pans,  and  bake  the  under  crust. 
Fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  half  an  hour.  When  cold 
sprinkle  llirhtly  with  white  powdered 
sugar,  and  serve.  This  quantity  will 
make  three  pies. 


Baspberry  Pie. 

Tarte   de   Framboisea. 

1  Quart  of  Berries. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful   Sweet  Spices,   Blended 

Equally. 

1-2  Cup  of  Water. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Pick,  wash  and  stem  the  berries;  then 
put  them  in  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan, 
and  let  them  stew  gently,  adding  the 
water  and  the  butter.  Season  well  with 
a  little  ground  cinnamon,  mace  and  all- 
spice. When  done,  take  off  and  allow 
to  cool  a  little.  Make  a  flaky  pie  crust 
(see  recipe),  and  line  the  tin  plates, 
after  greasing  slightly  with  ibutter,  and 
bake  the  bottom  crust  slightly  brown. 
Take  out  and  fill  in  with  the  berries, 
and  then  cover  the  top  with  a  thin  layer 
of  crust.  Decorate  the  edges,  and  set  in 
the  oven  to  bake.  When  a  nice,  delicate 
brown,  take  out  and  let  them  cool.  Re- 
move from  the  tin  plate  by  slightly 
loosening  the  outer  edge  with  a  knife. 
Turn  over  into  a  china  plate,  sprinkle 
with  white  sugar,  and  serve  cold  or  hot. 

Strawberry    Pie. 

Tarte   de   Fraises. 

1  Quart  of  Berries. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar. 
1-2  Cup  of  Water. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful   Sweet  Spices,  Blended 

Equally. 

Proceed  in  exactlv  the  same  manner  as 
for  Raspberry  Pie.     (See  recipe.) 

It  might  be  remarked  that  all  the  above 
fruit  pies  may  be  made  into  meringue 
pies,  the  same  as  the  Peach  Meringue  and 
Apple  Meringue  pies. 

All  fruit  pies  are  delightful  eaten  with 
a   glass   of  fresh  milk  or  cream. 

Sweet    Potato     Custard    Pie. 

Flan   de   Patates  Donees. 

3  Boiled   Sweet  Potatoes. 
3  Eggs.     1  Cup  of  Milk.    1  (?up  of  Sugar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon. 

The  Grated  Zest  and  Juice  of  an  Orange. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Brandy,  if  Liquor 

is  Desired. 

Wash  the  potatoes  well,  and  boil  them 
until  tender,  but  not  overdone.  Thirty 
minutes  will  suffice.  When  cold,  peel 
and  grate  them,  and  then  beat  together 
the  butter  and  sugar  till  light.  Add  the 
volks  of  the  eggs,  beaten  till  light,  and 
then  beat  in  the  potatoes,  stirring  first 
gradually,  and  then  beating  lightly  and 
steadily.  Add  the  spices  and  the  orange, 
and  Brandv.  if  -desired,  and  then  line  one 
deep  pan  or  two  small  pie  pans  if  pre- 
ferred, with  the  pie  crust  (See  recipe.) 
Bake  lightly,  fill  in  lightly  with  the  po- 
tatoes, and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  a 
half  hour.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  troth,  and  while  beating  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  powdered 
sugar.  When  the  pies  are  baked,  heap 
the  meringue  on  the  top,  set  back  in  the 
oven,  and  let  them  bake  for  two  or  three 
minutes  only,  to  a  light  brown. 
ToI-an-Vent. 

1  Pound  of  Flour. 
1    Pound    of  Butter,    or  IHalf  Butter   and 

Half  Lard. 

1     Teaspoonful     of    Salt.     1    Cup    of    loe 

Water. 

1    Egg. 

Vol-au-Vent  Paste  is  always  difficult 
to  make,  and  should  never  be  attempted 


179 


toy  Inexperienced  housekeepers,  if  they 
are  expectine  company.  Pl-aotice  first  be- 
fore essaying  to  malce  others  eat  your 
efforts. 

Malte  the  Puff  Paste  as  directed  (see 
Puff  Paste),  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool 
place  at  least  six  hours.  Roll  the  paste 
out  very  thin,  and  then  line  the  deep  pan 
in  which  you  intend  to  cook  the  chicker. 
or  meat,  (jut  around  the  edge  nicely 
with  a  knife.  Then  take  another  small 
pan  and  cover  it  only  half  way  witli 
the  paste.  Cut  around  the  edges,  trim- 
ming off  all  strings  of  dough.  Then 
brush  the  paste  all  around  the  top  with 
a  beaten  egg.  Put  it  on  a  sheet  iron 
or  square  tin,  and  set  it  on  the  ice  till 
very  cold.  Then  set  it  in  a  very  hot  oven 
to  bake  for  about  half  an  hour.  Do  not 
let  it  burn  or  scorch.  When  done,  fill 
the  inside  with  chicken,  pigeon  or  other 
meat  (already  fricasseed),  with  which 
wou  intend  to  make  the  Vol-au-Vent,  and 
then  cover  with  tlie  top  crust.  Fill  around 


the  edges  with  strips  of  paste  left  over, 
and  piled  one  over  another  for  aboui. 
three  thicknesses,  set  in  the  oven  to  bake, 
and   serve  hot. 

This  is  the  true  Vol-au-Vent  paste, 
and  chicken,  pigeons,  small  birds,  veal 
or  meats  may  be  used  for  filling.  But 
the  best  chicken  pie  is  the  old-fashioned 
one,  made  by  filling  the  pan  with  Tiie 
crust  (see  recipe),  baking  it,  and  the 
edges  which  you  have  cut  around  lightly, 
and  then  fillmg  in  with  the  chicken  and 
strips  of  dough  between,  and  covering 
with  a  thin  cover  of  the  paste,  bailing 
brown  and  serving  hot. 

Oyster    Patties. 

Bouches    d'Huitres. 

Prepare  a  puff  paste,  and  proceed  in 
exactly  the  manner  outlined  under  the 
chapter  on  "Oysters."  (See  Oyster  Pat- 
ties.) 


CHAPTER  XXXrV. 
PUDDINGS. 

Des  Poudings. 


We  have  no  real  French  word  for  pud- 
ding. Puddings  are  essentially  English 
in  origin.  French  chefs  introduced  tliem 
into  France,  retaining,  with  a  slight 
modification  of  spelling,  the  expressive 
name  for  the  dish.  The  Creoles  adapted 
the  dish  to  many  of  the  delightful  fruits 
of  Louisiana. 

Puddings  may  be  either  boiled  or  baked 
One  rule  may  be  given  for  the  baked 
pudding,  and  one  for  the  boiled,  or  more 
properly,  the  "roll,"  and  these  will  be 
the  guides  of  the  intelligent  cook.  In  th-? 
boiled  puddings  It  is  generally  necessary 
to  make  a  dough,  using  the  Plain  Paste 
(see  recipe),  and  then  the  dough  is  rolled 
out,  and  the  raw  fruit  placed  within. 
The  dough  is  then  rolled  over  and  over, 
so  as  to  form  layers  first  of  dough,  and 
then  of  fruit.  Sew  up  in  a  clean  cloth, 
and  boil  till  done. 

Blackberry   Roll. 
Borurelet  aux  Mures. 

1  Quart  of  Blackberries. 
A   Plain    Paste,    Not   Too    Flaky. 

Make  a  Plain  Paste,  which  should  be 
rather  firm,  to  prevent  the  berries  from 
escaping.  Roll  this  out  to  about  one 
and  a  half  feet  in  length,  or  one  foot, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  family,  and 
the  number  of  guests,  one  foot  being 
ample  for  a  family  of  six.  Spread  the 
blackberries,  which  you  will  have  care- 
fully picked,  over  this  paste,  and  then 
'carefully  roll  over  and  over  until  the 
entire  paste  is  taken  up.  Then  sew  in 
a  clean  piece  of  white  muslin,  and  put 
into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Let  It  boil 
continuously  for  at  least  two  hours  and 
a  half.  Then  take  out,  let  it  cool  slightly 
rip  the  cloth  which  binds  it,  and  serve 
immediately  with  a  Hard  S'auce  or  Cream 
or  Brandy  Sauce.  (See  recipes  Sauces 
for  Puddings,  etc.) 

Peach  Rolls,  Apple  Rolls,  Banana, 
Strawberry,  Raspberry.  Cherry  and  Cur- 
rant Rolls,  and  Plantain  Rolls  are  made 
in  the  same  manner.  Always  slice  and 
peel  the  peaches  and  stone  them;  also 
stone  the  cherries,  and  peel  and  seed  the 
apples.  Peel  the  plantains  and  bananas 
and  slice  very  thin  before  rolling  in  the 
dough.  iSome  serve  the  roll  cold,  but  then 
it  is  always  a  little  tough,  for  the  boiled 
dough  hardens  easily.  A  boiled  puddin'< 
should  always  be  eaten  hot.  The  nud- 
ding  may  be  boiled  in  a  mold,  in  which 


case    it   should    be    well-covered,   and   the 
mold  first  buttered. 

The  fruits  may  be  mixed,  in  which  case 
excellent  results  are  produced. 

Boiled  Dumplings. 

Echaudes    a-    I'Anglaise. 

8    Large,    Fine,    Rosy   Apples.     Sauce. 

.Prepare  a  Plain  Paste  (see  recipe),  and 
cut  into  squares,  and  put  in  the  center 
of  each  a  fine,  juicy  apple,  pared  and 
cored,  or  a  half  apple,  pared  and  cored. 
Wrap  the  fruit  up  in  the  dough,  and 
place  these  in  small  dumpling  cloths  (the 
Creoles  sometimes  do  not  use  cloths),  and 
put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them 
boil  for  at  least  an  hour.  On  taking  out 
the  apple,  it  so  desired,  the  inner  core 
may  be  filled  with  some  delicate  jelly  or 
marmalade.  Serve  with  Hard,  Cream  or 
Brandy  Sauce.  (See  recipes  Sauces  for 
Puddings,  etc.) 

Dumplings  of  other  fruits  are  made  In 
the  same  way.  In  making  a  peach  dump- 
ling, cut  the  peach  in  half,  stone  It,  put 
together  again,  or  place  the  halves  each 
in  separate  pieces  of  dough  in  dumpling 
cloths.  Cut  bananas  and  plantains  into 
quarters. 

Always  dip  the  pudding  and  dumplins 
cloths  first  in  hot  water  before  sewing  up 
the  pudding  or  dumplings  in  them. 
Dumplings  must  be  served  as  soon  as 
done. 

Old-Fashloned    Creole    Apple    Dumplings. 

Echaudes  de  Pommes  a  I'Ancienne  Mode 
Creole. 

8  Large,  Fine,  Rosy  Apples. 

1  Large  Kitchenspoonful  of  Butter. 

2    Large   Kitchenspoonfuls    of   Sugar. 

1    Chip    of    Seeded   Raisins.      The    Grated 

Zest  of  1  Orange. 

An  old-fashioned  Creole  apple  dump- 
ling, much  to  the  taste  of  little  children. 
is  made  by  dropping  the  dumpling  into 
the  boiling  water  without  wraptjing  them 
In  cloths.  After  they  have  boiled  an 
hour,  beat  one  large  kitchenspoonful  of 
butter  and  two  of  sugar  to  a  thick 
cream,  and  stir  into  the  water  with  the 
dumplings.  Add  one  cup  of  seeded 
raisins,  and  the  grated  zest  of  one  oranga. 
Let  all  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  Put 
the  dumplings  into  a  dish,  pour  the  sauce 
over,    and    serve   hot   or   cold. 


180 


Baked   Dumplines. 

Bchaudes    Kotis. 

8  Large,  Fine,  Rosy  Apples. 
Sauce. 

Prepare  a  Plain  Paste.  (See  recipe.) 
Cut  into  squares  and  proceed  to-  prepare 
the  dumplings  In  exactly  tlie  same  man- 
ner as  in  the  recipe  for  Boiled  Dumplings 
(see  above  recipe),  only,  instead  of  boil- 
ing the  dumplings,  set  in  the  oven  in 
a  baking  dish,  and  bake  to  a  delicata 
brown.  Serve  with  a  Hard,  Cream  or 
Brandy  Sauce.  (See  recipes  Sauces  for 
Puddings.)  Dumplings  of  other  fruits 
are  made  and  baked  in  the  same  way. 
Bice  Dumplings. 
Echaudes   de  Riz. 

1-2    Pound    of    Mashed,    Cold,    Boiled 
Rice. 
1-2  Dozen  Apples. 
3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 
1  Egg. 
Pare  the  apples  and  take  out  the  cores. 
Fill  the  interiors  with  sugar  and   cinna- 
mon.   Beat  the  egg  and  the  rice  together, 
all    the    flour,    and    knead,  to    a    dough. 
Cover  the  apples  with  a  thick  coating  of 
rice,    and    then    tie    each    in    a    dumpling 
cloth,  and  put  them  in   a  pot  of  boiling 
water.     Let  them   boil   for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.     When  done,  turn  out  care- 
fully on  a  dish,   and  serve   with  a  [Hard 
or  Cream  Sauce.     Or  the  dumplings  may 
be  baked  in  the  oven. 

Boly    Poly 

Bourrelet. 

1-2   Pound    of   Flour.     5    Ounces    of  Suet. 

1  Pint  of  Fresh  Fruit,  Jam   or  Jelly. 

1-4  Teaspoonful   of  Salt. 

Cut  away  all  the  fibers  from  the  suet, 
and  then  mince  very  fine.  Add  the  flour 
and  salt  to  it,  and  mix  well  together,  and 
gradually  add  sufficient  water  to  make 
a  dough.  Roll  it  out  about  half  an  Inch 
in  thickness  on  a  baking  board,  and  then 
spread  over  thinly  with  minced  fresh 
fruits,  mingled,  or  with  fruit  Jam  or  pre- 
serves, singly  or  mingled.  Roll  It  up. 
and  put  in  a  cloth,  leaving  room  tor  It 
to  swell.  Then  plunge  into  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours.  Serve  with 
Hard,   Cream  or  Brandy  Sauce. 

An  Orange  Roly  Poly  is  made  by  seed- 
ing the  oranges  and  laying  them  thinly 
sliced  all  over  the  sheet  of  dough.  Sprin- 
kle lightly  with  white  sugar,  and  roll 
up  and  fasten  closely  in  the  pudding 
cloth.  Boil  for  one  hour,  and  eat  with 
Lemon  or  Orange  Sauce. 

Peaches  and  apples  and  other  fruits 
may  be  used  in  making  these  delightful 
roly    polys. 

Pltim  Pudding. 

Ponding  aux  Raisins. 

1  Pound  of  Raisins.    1  Pound  of  Currants, 

1-4  Pound  of  Citron. 

1-2  Pound  of  Butter.    1-2  Pound  of  Suet. 

1-2    Pound    of    Sugar.    1-4    Pound    of 

Flour. 

6  Eggs.     1-2  Pint  of  Milk. 

1-2    Cup    of    Brandy.    1    Grated    Nutmeg. 

1-4    (Junce    Each    of    Ground    Cloves, 

Mace,  Cinnamon  and  Allspice. 

The  Grated  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 

The  Grated  Zest  of  Half  an  Orange. 

Seed  the  raisins  and  chop  them  fine. 
Seed  the  currants,  after  washing  and 
picking  over  very  carefully.  Mince  the 
citron,  and  grate  the  zest  of  the  orange 
and  lemon.  Then  proceed  as  follows: 
Beat   the    butter   and    sugar   to    a    cream. 


and  then  beat  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
which  have  been  previously  beaten  to  a 
perfect  degree  of  lightness.  Then  add 
the  flour,  beating  in  by  degrees  till  very 
light,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which 
have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  AdJ 
the  spices  and  beat  in  well.  Mince  the 
suet  and  the  fruits  very  fine,  and  add, 
and  lastly  add  the  Brandy,  which  you 
will  beat  thoroughly  into  the  pudding. 
When  all  is  well  mixed,  have  ready  the 
pudding  cloth,  wet  with  hot  water,  and 
wrung  perfectly  dry.  Dredge  it  slightly 
with  flour,  and  wrap  the  pudding  In  it. 
Sew  it  up  and  put  into  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  it  boil  for  six  hours. 
Serve  with  a  Hard  or  Brandy  Sauce. 
Old-Fashioned  Creole  Flnm  Padding. 

Ponding  aux  Raisins  a   I'Ancienne  Mode 
Creole. 

2  Pounds   of  Beef  Suet.     11-2  Pounds  of 

Flour. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar.     The  Yolks  of  8  Eggs 

1  Pound   of  Raisins.    1  Pound  of 

Currants. 

1-4   Pound   of  Citron. 

1   Glass   of   Madeira   Wine.    2  Glasses  of 

Brandy. 

1   Nutmeg. 

A    Pinch    of    Cinnamon.    A    Hard    or 

Brandy  Sauce. 

Chop  finely  two  pounds  of  beef  suet. 
Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour, 
mix  with  suet;  add  to  this  one  pound  of 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  pound 
of  raisins,  stcoed  and  floured;  one  pound 
of  currants,  one-quarter  pound  citron, 
chopped  fine;  one  glass  Madeira  wine, 
two  glasses  Brandy,  one  nutmeg,  grated, 
and  a  little  cinnamon.  Beat  the  whole 
well  together,  adding  milk  till  of  proper 
consistency.  Wrap  in  a  cloth,  previously 
scalded  and  floured,  leaving  room  for  the 
pudding  to  swell;  boil  six  hours,  and 
serve  with  Brandy  or  Hard  Sauce. 

Baked  Paddings  and  DompUngs. 

Des  Poudings  et  des  Echaudes  au  Flour. 

In  baked  puddings  this  invariable  rule 
must  be  observed — the  whites  and  ths 
yolks  of  the  eggs  must  be  beaten  sep- 
arately, if  you  would  achieve  the  best 
results.  Custards  come  under  the  same 
class  as  puddings,  in  a  way,  and  when 
baked  both  should  be  put  into  the  oven 
the  moment  they  are  made,  and  baked 
instantly.  Once  done,  they  should  be 
taken  out,  and  if  to  be  eaten  hot,  should 
be  served  at  once;  if  cold,  they  should 
be  set  in  a  cool,  sweet,  fresh  place.  Noth- 
ing so  absorbs  as  milk,  and  when  this  in- 
gredient enters  into  the  composition  of 
any  dish,  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  care 
should  be  taken  to  keep  it  In  a  cool, 
fresh    place. 

Apple  Pudding. 

Pouding  de  Pommes. 

1    Pint    of   Apples. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Wliite  Sugar. 

1   Teaspoonful  of  Butter. 

1-4  Teaspoonful   Each   of  Nutmeg,  Mace, 

Allspice    and    Cinnamon,    Grated. 

1  Spoonful  of  Vanilla  Essence. 

Stew  the  apples  according  to  recipe 
(see  recipe),  and  while  the  apples  are 
boiling  stir  in  the  butter  and  the  spices. 
Then  take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Beat  all 
very  light.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  well  into  the 
pudding.  Put  into  a  buttered  dish,  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  the  oven. 
When  nicely  browned,  grate  nutmeg  on 
top,  and  serve  cold,  with  cream  or  milk. 


181 


Apple  Meringue  Pudding:. 

Pouding  Meringue  au  Pommes. 

1    Pint    of   Apples. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  White  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  Each  of  Nutmeg,   Mace, 

Allspice    and    Cinnamon,    Grated. 

1   Spoonful    of  Vanilla   Essence. 

Stew  the  apples  according  to  recipe 
(see  recipe),  and  while  the  apples  are 
boiling  stir  in  the  butter  and  the  spices. 
Then  talce  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Beat  all 
very  light,  and  put  into  a  buttered  dish, 
and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  the  oven. 
Then  cover  with  a  meringue  made  with 
tile  whites  of  the  eggs,  the  essence,  and 
the  white  powdered  sugar,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Bake  to  a  light  brown,  and 
serve  cold  with  fresh  milk  or  cream. 

Peach  Meringue  Pudding,  Cherry 
Meringue  Pudding,  Orange  Meringue 
Pudding,  Blackberry  Meringue  Pudding 
and  Fig  Meringue  Pudding  are  also  made 
in  the  same  way,  only  the  figs  must 
not  be  overripe  when  cooked. 

The  same  fruits  may  be  made  into  the 
plain  pudding  by  following  the  first  rec- 
ipe. All  are  most  excellent,  and  in  their 
season  these  fruits  are  so  cheap  in  our 
clime  that  there  is  no  reason  why  the 
poorest  may  not  enjoy  these  delightful 
desserts. 

Banana  Fnddlng. 
Pouding  de  Eananes. 

6    Bananas.  Stale    Cake. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.    3  Eggs.  1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

Cut  the  stale  cake  very  thin.  Peel 
and  slice  the  bananas.  Put  a  layer  of 
cake  at  the  botton  of  a  buttered  baking 
dish.  Place  over  this  a  layer  of  the 
sliced  bananas.  Pour  over  this  a  layer 
of  milk  custard,  made  from  the  above 
Ingredients,  and  boiled  very  thin.  (See 
Custard).  Add  another  layer  of  cake,  then 
one  of  banana  and  custard,  and  so  con- 
tinue till  you  have  used  up  all.  Make 
the  top  layer  of  the  custard.  Put  in  an 
oven,  cover  with  a  piece  of  paper  bake 
for  half  an  hour,  and  let  the  top  brown 
slightly,    and    serve    cold. 

Birds'    Nest   Pudding. 
Pouding  au   Nid  d'Oiseau. 

6  Apples.       1  Pint  of  Rich  Cream. 

2  Cups  of  Flour.      1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  and  then  put 
them  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish. 
Mix  the  cream  with  the  flour  until 
smooth,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  which  you  will  have  dis- 
solved well  in  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling 
water.  Mix  again  thoroughly,  and  pour 
over  the  apples.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  bake  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  Hard, 
Cream    or    Brandy    sauce.      (See    recipe.) 

Bread   Pudding, 

Pouding    de    Pain. 

Utilize  left-over  stale  bread  in  this 
pudding. 

1  Quart    of    Stale    Bread. 

3  Eggs.  1    Cup   Raisins.     11-2    Pints    of 

Milk. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  mix,  and 
then,  when  very  light,  add  the  milk. 
If  you  use  stale  cake,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  if  you  use  stale 
bread,  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Mix 
thoroughly.  Wet  the  bread  and  squeeze 
It.      Then    mix    in    it    a    cup    of    seeded 


raisins.  Beat  the  egg  mixture  thor- 
oughly into  this,  and  place  in  the  oven 
and  balce  for  an  hour.  Serve  with  Hard, 
Cream,  Brandy  or  Lemon  Sauce.  (Sea 
recipes.) 

Brown    Betty    Pudding. 

Pouding   a.    la    Mulatresse. 

1    Cup    of   Bread    Crumbs. 

2  Cups    of    Chopped    Apples.      1    Cup    of 

Sugar. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1-4  Spoonful   each   of  Ground   Spices. 

Utilize  stale  bread  crumbs  for  this 
pudding.  Butter  the  bottom  of  a  baking 
pan,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  apples, 
which  you  will  have  stewed  nicely.  Put 
over  this  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  dot  with  butter. 
Sprinkle  nicely  with  the  spices.  Con- 
tinue this  until  you  have  used  up  all 
the  apples.  Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
on  top.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  bake  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot, 
with  Cream  Sauce  or  Hard  Sauce. 

Cake   or   Bread  Pudding. 

Pouding  de  Gateau  ou  de  Pain. 

1  Quart  of  Stale  Cake. 

3  Eggs.      1     Cup     Raisins.       1 1-4     Pints 

Milk. 
1   Teaspoonful   of  Vanilla. 

Utilize  left-over  cake  in  this  pudding. 
Beat  the  eggs  well  and  mix  and  then, 
when  very  light,  add  the  milk.  If  you 
use  stale  cake,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar;  if  you  use  stale  bread,  add 
half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Spread  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  tlie 
raisins,  and  then  put  a  layer  of  cake 
over  them  sliced  very  thin.  Sprinkle 
this  with  raisins,  and  continue  adding  the 
cake  and  raisins  alternately  till  all  are 
used.  Add  a  little  essence  of  lemon  or 
vanilla  to  the  egg  mixture,  and  pour  all 
this  over  the  cake.  Set  in  the  oven  and 
bake  for  an  hour.  Serve  with  Hard  or 
Lemon  Sauce.  Some  add  a  little  Sherry 
Wine.  That  is  according  to  taste  and  the 
methods  of  the  family. 

Chocolate  Pudding, 
Pouding   au    Chocolat. 

3  Ounces  of  Grated  Chocolate. 

3   Eggs. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.       3-4  Cups  of  Powdered 

Sugar. 

3-4  Cups  of  Powdered  Crackers. 

3-4  Cups  of  Butter.    1  Pinch  of  Salt. 

Soak  the  cracker  crumbs  in  water  for 
a  few  minutes,  to  disolve  them,  and  then 
squeeze  out  thoroughly.  Dissolve  the 
chocolate  in  a  little  milk,  and  add  the 
other  ingredents.  Pour  all  into  a  buttered 
dish,  and  let  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 
Then  take  out,  and  let  it  cool  slightly 
Spread  over  the  top  a  meringue  made  of 
one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  th"- 
whites  of  three  eggs.  Set  back  in  the 
oven  to  brown  slightly  for  two  minutes, 
and    serve   cold. 

Cottage  Pudding. 
Pouding  de  Menage. 

1  Cup  of  Milk.     1  Cup  of  Sugar.     3  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter.    11-2  Cups  of 

Flour. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  then  add  ijie  miiK  and  the 
flopr.  Add  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Beat  carefully  Into  the  pudding. 
Add  the  baking  powder,  and  pour  Into  a 
buttered    pan,    and    cook   in    a   moderate 


182 


oven  for  three-puarters  of  an  hour.  Serve 
this  pudding  hot.  with  "Vanilla,  Cream,  ox" 
Lemon    Sauce. 

Cocoanut   Pnddingr, 

Pouding   de    Coco. 

1  Grated  Cocoanut.    1  Quart  of  Milk. 

1    Cup    of    Sugar.      1    Tablespoonful     of 

Vanilla. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cornstarch. 

Put  the  milk  in  a  boiler  and  add  the 
cornstarch  as  it  commences  to  boil,  first 
moistening  the  cornstarch  with  a  little 
■water.  Stir  until  very  smooth.  Then  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
then  the  sugar.  Lastly,  add  the  whites, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Then  add  the 
grated  cocoanut,  turn  into  the  baking 
pan,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour.  Serve 
cold,   with  Vanilla   Sauce.      (See   Recipe.) 

Cream   Padding. 

Pouding    a    la    Creme. 

6    Eggs.      1-2    Cup    of    Sugar. 
1    Pint    Flour.      1    Pint    Milk.      1    Grated 

Lemon. 

1    Pint    of    Rich    Cream.        A    Finch    of 

Salt. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  the  grated  lemon. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well,  and  add 
to  the  mixture.  Then  add  the  flour, 
well-sifted;  beat  light,  and  add  one  pint 
of  milk  and  one  'pint  of  rich  cream. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  an^  add. 
Bake  a  half  hour  In  a  buttered  dish. 
Serve   with    Lemon   Sauce.      (See   recipe.^ 

Creole    Fig    Fnddlngr. 

Pouding  de  Figues  a  la  Creole. 

1-2    Pound     of    Figs. 

1-4   Pound   of   Grated  Bread   Crumbs. 

1  Teacupf  ul  of  Milk.    2 1-2  Ounces  of 

Sugar. 

3  Ounces  of  Butter. 

3   Ounces   of  Butter.     2  Eggs. 

Chop  the  figs  fine,  and  beat  the  sugar 
and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  thick 
cream.  Add  the  meltea  butter  and  the 
bread  crumbs,  which  have  been  wet  and 
squeezed  thoroughly.  Add  the  milk  an1 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
thick  froth.  Butter  a  mold  and  sprinkle 
with  flour.  Steam  lightly  for  three  hours. 
Serve  with  Hard,  Cream  or  Brandy 
Sauce. 

Fig  Foddlngr. 

Pouding  de  Figues. 

1  Pint  of  Fresh  Figs.       1  Cup  of  Sugar, 

1    Cup    of   Milk.     1   Cup    of    Flour. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Baking    Powder. 

1-4    Teaspoonful    of    Grated    Nutmeg. 

1-2  Cup  of  Butter 

Peel  the  figs  and  cut  fine.  Then  make 
a  batter  of  the  eggs,  flour  and  milk, 
according  to  recipe  (Apple  Batter  Pud- 
ding). When  smooth,  add  the  fruit. 
Turn  Into  a  baking  pan,  and  bake  for  an 
hour.  Serve  with  Wine  Sauce.  (Sec 
recipe.) 

This  pudding  may  be  boiled  by  adding 
two  cups  of  flour  to  the  batter  ana 
rolling  and  sewing  in  a  well-floured 
dumpling  cloth  and  boiling  for  three 
hours.     (See  recipe.) 

Indian  Padding. 

Pouding   a   rindlenne. 

2  Cups  of  Indian  Meal. 

1-2    Cup   Butter.     1   Cup    Sugar.     2    Cups 

Milk.      1-2    Cup    of    Molasses. 

1    Cup    of   Seeded    Raisins. 


Pour  sufficient  boiling  water  on  the 
meal  to  wet  it  thoroughly,  and  then 
beat  in  the  butter.  Add  the  sugar, 
beating  thoroughly,  and  the  salt.  Then 
add  the  milk,  stirring  well,  also  the  mo- 
lasses with  the  raisins.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful of  extract  of  cinnamon,  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Bake  for  two  and  a  half  or 
three  hours,   and  serve   cold  -with  cream. 

Baked     Lemon     Pudding. 

Pouding    de   Citron    au    Four. 

3-4    Pound    of    Butter. 
3-4  Pound  of  Powdered  Sugar. 
1    Gill    of    Sherry    and    Brandy,    Mixed. 
1    Small    Stale    Sponge    Cake.        6    Eggs. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  oranges,  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice  after  removing  the 
seeds.  Grate  the  inner  meat.  Beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  thick  cream,  and 
then  add  the  wine.  Add  these  to  the 
oranges,  grated  with  the  rind.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  the  yolks  separately.  Add  them  in 
order  to  the  mixture.  Flace  in  a  mod- 
ern quick  oven,  and  let  it  bake  for  about 
a  half  hour.  When  done,  let  it  cool 
slightly.  Place  a  meringue  on  top,  as  In 
Apple  Meringue  Pudding  (see  recipe)  and 
set  back  to  bake  two  minutes  more. 
Serve    cold. 

The  pudding  may  be  baked  in  a  rich  pie 
crust,  set  in  a  deep  pan. 

Molasses    Pudding. 
Pouding  de  Melasse. 

1   Cup   of  New   Orleans   Molasses. 
1  Cup  of  Milk.  1-2  Cup  of  Melted  Butter. 

1-2   Cup    of    Sherry   W^ine. 

3  Cups   Flour.       1-2   Teaspoonful  Baking 

Powder.      1-2    Teaspoonful    Each    of    the 

Four  Spices. 

Dissolve  the  baking  powder  in  the  flotir, 
mixing  thoroughly.  Melt  the  butter  and 
add  it  to  the  molasses,  and  then  add  the 
milk,  mixing  thoroughly.  Add  the  flour, 
gradually  mixing  well,  and  then  add  the 
wine,  and  lastly  the  spices.  Blend  all 
well  together.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered 
pan,  and  let  it  bake  for  about  two 
hours.      Serve    with    Foamy    Sauce. 

This  pudding  may  also  be  boiled  by 
sewing  in  a  well-floured  dumpling  cloth 
and  boiling  for  three  hours. 

Nesselrode  Padding. 

Pouding  Nesselrode. 

1-2    Pint    of    Chestnuts. 
1-2   Pint   of  Almonds.     1   Pint   of   Cream. 

1  Pint  of  Boiling  Water. 
1-2   Pound    of   Mixed    French    Candles   of 

the    Finest    Kind. 

1-2    of   a    Grated    Pineapple,    or  1-2  of   a 

Can. 

The  Yolks  of  Three  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Essence. 

Shell  the  chestnuts  and  throw  them  into 
boiling  water  to  blanch.  Then  take  off 
the  brown  skin,  and  set  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
let  them  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Then 
drain  and  press  them  through  a  colander. 
Shell  the  almonds  and  blanch  them  for 
twelve  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Then 
take  them  out  and  pound  them,  and  cut 
the  fruit  into  very  small  pieces.  Put  the 
sugar  and  the  water  on  to  boil  together, 
and  let  the  mixture  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
then  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very,  very 
light,  and  add  them  to  the  boiling  syrup. 
Let  it  boil  up  once,  and  take  off,  and  then 
beat  very  lightly  with  an  egg  beater  till 
cool.  (Use  a  wire  beater.)  Add  all  the 
fruits,    the    almonds    and    chestnuts,   and 


183 


the  pint  of  cream,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  Vanilla  Essence.  Beat  well,  and  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  Sherry.  Put  the 
pudding  into  a  freezer  to  freeze  and  ri- 
pen, and  let  it  stand  covered  with  a 
carpet  for  four  or  five  hours,  or  till 
frozen,  renewing  the  ice  and  salt  and 
draining  off  water '  as  necessary.  Thi^^ 
will  serve  eight  persons  nicely.  Some  of 
the  cream  may  be  worked  in  with  Spin- 
ach greenery,  as  in  Pistachio  Ice  Cream 
(see  recipe),  and  a  delicate  coating  of 
green  given  to  the  pudding,  which  adds 
to  the  effect.  The  pudding  may  be  served 
with  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Orange   Pudding. 

Ponding   d'Orange. 

2  Large  Louisiana  Oranges. 

3-4  Pound  of  Butter. 

3-4  Pound  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1  Gill  of  Sherry  and  Brandy,   Mixed. 

1  Stale,   Small  Sponge   Cake.  6  Eggs. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  oranges,  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice  after  removing  the 
seeds.  Grate  the  inner  meat.  Beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  thick  cream,  and 
then  add  the  wine.  Add  these  to  the 
oranges,  grated  with  the  rind.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
the  yolks  separately.  Add  them  in  order 
to  the  mixture.  Place  in  a  moderatelj 
quick  oven,  and  let  it  bake  for  about 
a  half  hour.  When  done,  let  it  cool 
slightly.  Place  a  meringue  on  top,  as 
in  above  recipe,  and  set  back  to  bake 
two  minutes  more.     Serve  cold. 

Peach   Batter   Pudding. 

Pouding  de  Peches. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.       2  Cups  of  Flour 
3  Eggs.     8  Peaches. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of   Baking   powder. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 
2   Tablespoonfuls   of  Melter   Butter 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs 
till  very  light,  and  mix,  and  add  the  milk. 
Beat  steadily  until  smooth.  Then  add  the 
melted  butter,  the  salt  and  baking  pow- 
der. Have  the  peaches  stewed  till  almost 
cooked,  and  stir  them  into  the  pudding, 
after  cutting  fine.  Then  turn  the  pud- 
ding into  the  mold  or  pan  in  which  it 
is  to  be  baked.  Bake  for  an  hour,  and 
serve  hot,  with  Cream,  Brandy  or  Hard 
Sauce.  (See  recipes  Sauces  for  Puddings, 
etc.) 

Fruit  Batter  Pudding. 

Poudings    de    Fruits. 

Cherry  Batter  Pudding,  Apple  Batter 
Pudding  and  all  fruit  batter  puddings 
are  made  in  the  same  way  as  Peach  Bat- 
ter Pudding.     (See  recipe.) 

Pineapple  Pudding. 

Pouding   d'Ananas. 

1  Fine  Pineapple.    1  Pint  of  Milk. 

1-2    Pound    of    Flour. 

3    Eggs.        3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 

1-2   Cup    of   Sugar. 

A    Sauce    au    Kirsch. 

Boil  the  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  add 
the  butter.  Sift  the  flour  and  add  grad- 
ually to  the  mixture,  stirring  briskly 
for  three  minutes.  Take  off  the  fire,  and 
add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  very 
light.  Stir  well,  and  add  the  powdered 
sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  add  gradually  to  the 
milk.  Then  take  a  pudding  mold  and 
butter  well;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  put 
a  layer  of  the  milk-and-egg  preparation 
about  half  an   inch   thick  at  the  bottom. 


Put  over  this  a  layer  of  finely-sliced 
pineapple,  then  add  another  layer  of  the 
milk^and  eggs  and  a  layer  of  the  pine- 
apple, and  continue  till  all  the  pine- 
apple and  the  mixture  are  used  up.  Set 
the  mold  in  a  tin  pan  of  warm  water 
and  place  in  the  oven  and  cover  with 
buttered  paper.  Let  the  pudding  steam 
for  an  hour;  then  remove  from  the 
oven,  turn  into  a  pudding  dish,  and  serve 
with  a  Sauce  au  Kirsch.  (See  recipe 
Sauces  for  Puddings,  etc.) 

Raspberry  Pudding. 

Pouding    de    Framboises. 

1    Quart    of    Raspberries. 

3-4  Pound   of  Powdered  Sugar. 

3-4  Pound  of  Butter. 

1  Gill  of  Sherry  Wine  and  Brandy  Mixed. 

1    Stale    Small    Sponge    Cake.        6    Eggs. 

Stew    the    berries    and    proceed    in    the 

same    manner    as    for    Orange    Pudding. 

Bake  for   about   twenty  minutes   or   half 

an  hour  after  adding  the  fruit,  and  serve 

cold,  with  a  Cream  or  Hard  Sauce. 

These  fruit  puddings  are  the  most  de- 
licious   of   Louisiana  puddings. 

Sago  Padding. 

Pouding  au  Sagou. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.    1-4  Pound  of  Sago. 

1-2  Cup  of  Powdered  Sugar.     4  Eggs. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Vanilla   Essence. 

Boil  the  milk  and  add  the  sago,  and 
stir  briskly  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
Then  take  off  the  stove  and  set  to  cool. 
Add  the  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  eggs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Va- 
nilla Essence.  Mix  thoroughly.  Butter 
a  pudding  mold  or  pan  and  fill  with 
the  mixture.  Set  in  a  tin  pan,  and  fill 
the  latter  with  hot  water.  Place  in  the 
oven  and  let  it  steam  for  half  an  hour. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  dessert 
dish  and  send  to  the  table  hot.  Serve 
with  a  Cream  Sauce. 

Snow   Pudding. 

Pouding  a  la  Niege. 

1-2   Box    of   Gelatine.     1   Pint   of   Boiling 

Water. 

2    Cups    of    Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs.    The  Juice  of 

3  Lemons. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  boiling 
water,  and,  when  nearly  cold,  add  one 
cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
one  lemon.  Beat  well  and  lightly,  and 
strain.  When  cold,  beat  as  white  as 
snow,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  all  thor- 
oughly, and  pour  into  a  mold.  Stand  In 
a  cold  place  for  four  hours  to  harden. 
Then  make  a  Custard  Sauce  by  beating 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  together  with  a 
half  cup  of  sugar  till  very  light.  Stir 
them  into  the  milk,  which  should  be 
boiling.  Let  them  cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly, for  two  or  three  minutes.  Then 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  Vanilla,  and  set  to 
cool.  Serve  with  the  pudding,  pouring 
the  sauce  upon  it. 

Strawberry    Pudding. 

Pouding  de  Fraises. 

1    Quart   of    Strawberries.     1-2   Pound    of 

Sugar. 

1    Gill    of    Sherry    and    Brandy,    Mixed. 

1  Stale  Small  Sponge  Cake.    6  Eggs. 

Stew  the  berries  and  proceed  In  the 
same  manner  as  for  Raspberry  Pudding. 

Quince  Pudding  is  prepared  in  the  same 
manner. 


184 


Sweet    Potato    Fnddlnc 

Pouding    de    Patates    Deuces. 

1  Pint  of   Mashed   Sweet  Potatoes. 
1-2  Pound  of  Sugar.    1-2  Pound  of  Butter. 

8   Eggs. 

The   Juice    and   Rind    of   an   Orange    and 

Lemon. 

1-4  Spoon   of  Ground  Mace. 

The  Same  of  Cinnamon  and  Allspice. 

-1-4  Grated  Nutmeg. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Brandy.     1-2  Cup  of 

Sherry. 

Grate  the  potatoes  and  mash  them 
through  a  sieve,  if  you  use  them  raw. 
If  you  use  the  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
simply  mash  them.  Beat  the  butter  and 
the  sugar  to  a  rich  cream,  and  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  then 
add  the  grated  potatoes,  and  the  spices, 
and  finally  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat- 
en to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  all  well.  Add 
the  liquors.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking 
pan,  and  let  the  pudding  bake  in  a  moa- 
erate  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
The  addition  of  the  liquars  is  optional. 
Serve  hot  or  cold,  with  Cream  Sauce. 
(See    recipe.) 

Tapioca  Pudding:. 

Pouding  au  Tapioca. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.     1  Cup   of  Tapioca. 

1-2    Cup     of    Sugar.      1    Teaspoonful     of 

Vanilla. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Salt. 

Wash  the  tapioca  well,  and  then  add 
it  to  the  milk  and  let  it  soak  for  at 
least  two  hours  and  a  half.  Then  beat 
the  eggs  separately  until  light.  Add  them 
in  order  to  the  sugar,  beat  very  light, 
add  the  salt  and  the  tapioca,  and  bake 
for  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  The  pudding  may  be  served  either 
hot  or  cold. 

To  make  Tapioca  Fruit  Pudding,  add 
one  pint  of  preserved  raspberries  to  the 
above. 


The   Queen    of   All   Fuddines. 

La  Reine  des  Poudings. 

1  Pint  of  Bread  Crumbs. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.    1  Cup  of  Sugar.  4  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

The   Juice   of  a   Lemon. 

1-2   Pint    of   Seeded    Currants. 

1-2    Pint    of    Raisins. 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  water  for 
about  an  hour.  Then  squeeze  thoroughly. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar 
very  light,  and  then  add  the  milk  and 
the  bread  crumbs,  beating  all  light.  Add 
the  melted  butter  and  the  seeded  raisins 
and  the  currants,  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  and  the  grated  zest  of  half,  a 
lemon.  Beat  all  thoroughly  together,  and 
set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour. 
In  the  meantime,  beat  the  whites  to  a 
very  stiff  froth.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  thoroughly 
till  very  stiff.  After  half  an  hour  take 
the  pudding  out  of  the  oven,  if  it  is 
nicely  browned,  and  put  over  the  top  a 
layer  of  some  fruit  jelly,  and  then  a 
layer  of  the  whites,  and  then  another 
layer  of  the  jelly,  and  a  last  layer  of 
the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Set  it  back 
in  the  oven  to  brown  for  several  minutes, 
and  serve  cold  with  cream  or  Wine 
Sauce.  This  pudding,  however,  is  so  de- 
licious that  it  may  be  served  without  any 
sauce.  The  above  proportions  will  serve 
a  family  of  six  and  two  guests. 

Tipsy    Squire. 

Pouding  au  Bon  Camarade. 

Left  Over  Sponge   Cake. 

1   Glass  of  Sherry   Wine. 

A    Boiled    Custard. 

Saturate  left-over  sponge  cake  with 
Brandy  or  Sherry  Wine.  Then  take  a 
rich  Boiled  Custard  (see  recipe):  place 
the  cake  in  a  deep  glass  dish,  and  pour 
the  custard  over  it.  Decorate  with 
blanched  lemons,  and  serve  cold. 


CHAPTER  XXXV. 


CUSTARDS  AND  CREAMS,  AND  OTHER  DESSERTS. 

Des   Flans   Des   Cremes,   et   Autre   Desserts. 


Blanc  Manger. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar.     1-2  Ounce  of  Gelatine 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  water,  and  then 
mix    with    the    milk    and    cream.     Let    it 
come  to  a  Ijoil,  add  the  Vanilla,  pour  into 
a  mold,  let  it  harden  and  serve  cold. 
Cornstarch  Blanc  Manger. 

Blanc   Manger   a   la   Fecule   de    Mais. 

1   Quart  of  Milk. 

3   Tablespoonfuls    of    Conrstarch. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Extract. 

Dissolve  the  cornstarch  lightly  In  one 
pint  of  milk,  and  then  add  the  sugar  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Put  this  mixture  Into  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Flavor 
with  the  lemon;  pour  into  cups  to  cool. 
Then,  when  very  cold,  turn  out,  and  serve 
with  Jelly  and  cream.    This  will  serve  six 


persons.  Serve,  if  you  wish,  with  a  Cream 
Sauce. 

Neapolitan   Blanc   Manger. 

Blanc    Manger    a    la    Neapolitan. 

1   Quart  of  Milk. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Cornstarch. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 

The  Yolk  of  1  Egg.    The  White  of  S  Egg.-!. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Extract. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Grated  Vanilla  Choco- 
late. 
^\Tiipped   Cream. 

To  make  a  Neapolitan  Blanc  Manger, 
first  make  the  above  preparation,  and 
then  separate  it  into  four  parts.  Put  the 
first  into  a  mold,  and  then  stir  into  It. 
while  warm,  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  grated  vanilla  chocolate.  Pour  the 
white  preparation  into  the  same  mold,  on 
top  of  this.  Then  a  layer  of  the  choco- 
late, and  then  the  white.  Cover  the  last 
layer  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  set 
to  cool  and  harden.  Serve  cut  into  thin 
slices,  with  whipped  cream. 


185 


Velvet  Blane  Manger. 

Blanc    Manger    Veloute. 

2  Cups  of  Cream. 

1-2  Cup  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1-2  Cup  of   Gelatine,  Dissolved   in   Water 

(hot). 

1   Glass    of    White    Wine. 

Boil  the  cream,  sugar  and  gelatine  to- 
gether, stirring  until  smooth.  Take  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Almond  Extract.  Mix  well, 
and  pour  into  a  mold,  and  set  to  cool  and 
harden. 

Boiled    Custard. 

Oeufs    au    Lait. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.     4  Eggs. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Cornstarch. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Set  the  milk  to  boil.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  very  light. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir 
carefully  into  the  yolks  and  the 
sugar.  Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  a. 
little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Continue  to  stir  until  it 
commences  to  thicken.  Then  add  the 
sugar  and  the  eggs.  Stir  and  let  it  cook 
for  one  moment  longer,  and  take  from 
the  fire,  add  the  vanilla  and  turn  into  a 
dish  to  cool.    Serve  very  cold. 

The  cornstarch  is  added  to  thicken  the 
custard.  If  the  milk  is  rich,  it  may  be 
omitted.  The  custard  is  far  more  deli- 
cate without  it. 

Baked  custard  without  cornstarch  is 
made  in  the  same  manner;  the  custard  is 
put  in  a  baking  dish,  setting  in  the  oven, 
and  allowed  to  bake  till  quite  firm.  By 
adding  two  tablespoonfuls  more  of  corn- 
starch the  custard  may  be  thickened,  if 
desired. 

Cup  Custard, 

Oeufs  au   Lait. 

4  Eggs.    1  Quart  of  Milk. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Cornstarch     (if 

desired), 

1-2  Cup   of  Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  until  light,  and 
then  add  the  sugar,  and  ibeat  till  very 
light.  Now  add  the  milk  and  the  nutmeif, 
and  put  a  pan  into  the  oven.  Fill  the 
pan  with  boiling  water.  Pour  the  cwi- 
tard  into  cups  or  into  a  mailer  pan,  and 
set  in  the  boiling  water,  and  let  it  bake 
till  firm  in  the  center.  Set  to  cool,  and 
serve  in  the  cups  if  they  have  been  used. 
Otherwise  serve  in  dessert  plates. 

Custard  Souffle. 

Flan  S'ouffle. 

1    Cup    Milk.     4    Eggs.     2    Tablespoonfuls 

Butter, 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    S'ugar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  Vanilla, 

Boil  the  milk.  Blend  the  butter  and 
the  flour  nicely,  and  add  to  the  boiling 
milk.  Stir  constantly  over  the  fire  for 
ten  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  the  sugar  together,  and  add  these 
to  the  milk. '  Then  set  the  mixture  1  o 
cool.  When  cool,  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  the  mix- 
ture. Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  with  Cream  Sauce,  while 
hot,  otherwise  it  will  fall. 


Tapioca    Custard. 

Flan   au   Tapioca. 


1-2    Cup   of   Tapioca.     1-2   Cup    of    Sugar. 

4  Eggs.    1  Pint  of  Water. 

1     Tumbler     of    Currant    or     Strawberry 

Jelly. 

Wash  the  tapioca  well  several  times, 
and  then  soak  it  well  in  the  pint  of  water 
for  two  hours.  Add  it  to  the  jelly,  mix- 
ing thoroughly,  and  then  add  "the  sugar, 
and  mix  again  until  the  tapioca  is  very 
clear.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
very  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  to  the 
tapioca,  and  turn  it  into  a  mold  and  set 
away  to  harden.  Make  a  Vanilla  Cream 
Sauce  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 
serve  cold  with  the  custard.  (See  Vanilla 
Cream  Sauce.) 

Almond    Custard. 

Plan   d'Amandes, 

1  Pint  of  New  Milk.    1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1-4     Pound      of     Blanched     Almonds 

(scalded). 

The  Tolks  of  4  Eggs. 

Blanch  the  almonds  after  shelling,  and 
chop  very  fine.  iBlend  the  eggs  and 
sugar,  heating  thoroughly,  and  add  to 
the  boiling  milk.  Then  add  the  almonds. 
Stir  well,  set  into  cups  to  cool.  Place  on 
top  a  meringue  made  of  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  white  powdered  sugar  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  "beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  seconds  to 
brown,  and  serve  cold. 

Macaroon   Custard. 

Flan  de  Macarons. 

1  Quart  of  Milk. 

The  Tolks  of  6  Eggs.    1-2  Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

1-2   Cup    of   Sugar.    1   Dozen   Macaroons. 

Set  the  milk  to  boil.  Blend  the  butter 
and  the  flour,  and  stir  into  the  boiling 
milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  very  light,  and  add 
this  to  the  milk,  stirring  constantly  for 
one  minute,  and  take  from  the  fire  to 
cool.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice 
or  extract  of  orange.  When  cool,  crum- 
ble one  dozen  macaroons  over  the  top 
C'f  the  dish.  Make  a  meringue  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  powdered  white  sugar.  Beat  to  a 
stiff  froth,  pile  on  the  custard,  and  set 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 
Serve  very  cold. 

Bice  Custard. 

Riz    au   Ijait. 

See  Rice  Custard  under  chapter  on 
Louisiana  Rice. 

Charlotte    Busse. 
1   Quart  of  Good  Cream. 

3-4  Cup  of  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

1-2    Box    of    Gelatine.    1    Teaspoonful    of 

Vanilla. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sherry  Wine, 

1-2  Pound  of  Lady  Fingers. 

Line  a  glass  dish  with  the  lady  fingers, 
or  with  small  slices  of  cake.  Soak  the 
gelatine  in  cold  water,  just  covered,  for 
half  an  hour.  Whip  the  cream,  and  then 
dissolve  the  soaked  gelatine  with  the 
Sherry  Wine.  Add  the  Vanilla  Ex- 
tract. Add  the  sugar  to  the  cream 
carefully,  and  then  strain  in  the  gelatine 
very  carefully.  Stir  immediately,  and 
then  pour  the  cream  over  the  lady  fin- 
gers, and  set  away  to  harden. 


186 


Parisian  Charlotte  Rnsse. 

Charlotte   Russe   a   la   Parislenne. 

1-4  Pound  of  Stale  Lady  Fingers. 

1-4    Box    of    Gelatine.     1    Cup    Grated 

Cocoanut. 

1-4  Pound   of  Macaro'ons. 

4  Eggs.     2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  for 
about  half  an  hour.  Put  one-half  of  the 
cream  to  one  side,  and  whip  ithe  rest. 
Put  the  remaining  pint  to  boil,  and  stir 
into  it  the  sugar  and  eggs,  beaten  to- 
gether till  very  light.  Stir  about  one 
minute,  and  as  it  thickens  add  the  gela- 
tine, which  you  will  have  dissolved  either 
in  a  little  warm  water  or  Sherry  wine, 
.^hen  add  the  lady  fingers  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  vanilla;  add  the  maca- 
roons and  the  grated  cocoanut.  Turn  all 
this  into  a  bowl  or  tin  basin,  place  It  on 
ice,  and  stir  continually  until  it  begins 
to  harden.  Add  the  whipped  cream,  and 
stir  all  very  carefully.  WTien  well  mixed, 
wet  a  fancy  dish  of  glass  or  a  mold,  turn 
the  Charlotte  Russe  into  it,  and  stand  on 
the  ice  to  harden. 

Some  utilize  a  stale  sponge  cake  in 
making  Charlotte  Russe,  cutting  out  the 
inside  and  leaving  the  sides  and  bottom 
about  an  inch  in  thickness.  The  mixture 
is  poured  into  this  cake,  and  served  cold, 
with  sauce. 

Floating:    Island. 

Oeufs   a  la  Neige. 

1   Quart  of   Milk. 

4    Eggs.     4    Tablespoonfuls    of    Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla. 

1-2  Cup   of  Currant  Jelly. 

Put  the  milk  to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar 
till  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk 
as  it  begins  to  boil.  Let  it  thicken  one 
minute.  Then  take  from  the  fire,  and 
add  the  vanilla  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  when  the  mixture  is  cold  pour 
it  into  a  glass  dish,  heap  on  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  and  dot  here  and  there  with 
bits  of  Currant  Jelly.  Dust  these  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  very  cold. 
Some  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
to  the  boiling  milk,  if  it  is  desired  to 
thicken  the  preparation.  But  the  taste  of 
cornstarch  is  never  as  delightful  as  that 
of  the  mixture  pure  and  simple. 

Apple    Snow. 

Neige  aux  Pommes. 

6  Fine  Apples.     1  Cup  Fine  White  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  6  FIresh  Creole  Eggs. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Pare  and  core  and  cut  up  the  apples, 
and  steam  them  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
water,  with  a  little  grated  lemon  peel, 
till  quite  soft.  Then  press  them  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  the  sugar  and  the  lemon 
juice.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
very  stiff  froth,  and  add  two-thirds  to 
the  apples,  stirring  all  the  whites,  and 
when  the  eggs  and  apples  are  very  light 
beat  this  with  a  little  powdered  white 
sugar  to  form  a  meringue.  Place  the 
apples  in  custard  glasses,  heap  on  the 
meringue,    and   serve    immediately. 

This  preparation  may  be  improved  by 
putting  the  apples  into  a  dish,  heaping 
on  the  meringue  and  baking  for  one 
minute  in  the  oven,  and  serving  very 
cold. 


Pineapple    Snow, 

Neige  a  I'Ananas. 

1  Pineapple.    The   W^hites  of  4  Eggs. 
1   Pint  of   Whipped   Cream. 
1-2  Cup  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Pare  the  pineapple,  and  grate  it.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  foamy,  and 
then  add  by  degrees  the  sifted  sugar. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  of  Sherry.  Stir 
the  whipped  cream,  which-  must  be  very 
cold  from  standing  on  ice,  and  when  all 
is  very  stiff  beat  in  the  pineapple,  pulp 
and  iuice,  adding  as  much  as  the  cream 
and  the  meringue  will  hold  without  be- 
coming too  soft.  Place  in  glasses,  and 
serve  very  cold.  This  is  a  delightful 
summer  dessert. 

Orange  Snow. 

Neige    d'Oranges. 

6  Fine  Louisiana  Oranges.. 
A  Snow  Cream,  as  Above. 

Prepare  this  dish  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  above. 

First  slice  the  oranges,  and,  removing 
the  seeds,  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  be- 
fore adding  the  snow  cream. 

Lemon  Snow  may  be  made  in  the  same 
manner. 

Snow  Cream. 

Neige  a  la  Creme. 

The  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 

1    Pint    of    Cream.     1    Teaspoonful    of 

Vanilla. 

1-2  Cup  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sherry. 

Whip  the  cream  and  set  on  ice.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  foam,  and 
then  add  the  sifted  white  sugar,  and  beat 
steadily  till  the  mixture  becomes  very 
stiff  and  glossy.  Add  the  Sherry  and  Va- 
nilla. Stir  the  whipped  cream  carefully 
into  the  meringue,  and  set  it  in  small 
custard  glasses  to  get  cold.  The  Creoles 
often  add  a  few  blanched  almonds.  Serve 
very  cold,  as  a  summer  dessert. 

Strawberries,  blackberries,  peaches, 
pears,  figs,  etc.,  in  their  natural  state, 
may  all  be  made  into  "snows"  by  fol- 
lowing the  directions  given  in  Pineapple 
Snow;  only  the  peaches  and  pears  and 
figs  and  bananas  must  be  chopped,  and 
strawberries  and  other  berries  must  be 
served  whole  in  the  snow.  Grated  cocoa- 
nut  may  also  be  served  in  the  same  man- 
ner. 

A   Creole   Summer  Pnddinff. 

Pouding  d'Ete. 

1  Pint  of  Lemon  Jelly. 

1  Cup  of  Stoned  Cherries. 

1  Cup  of  Malaga  Grapes.     2  Oranges. 

2  Bananas.    1-2  Pineapple. 
1  Pint  of  Snow  Cream. 

Make  the  Lemon  Jelly  (see  recipe),  add 
stoned  cherries,  a  few  Malaga  grapes, 
and  the  meat  of  two  oranges,  two  ba- 
nanas and  half  a  pineapple,  sliced.  Pour 
a  little  Jelly  Into  each  custard  glass.  Put 
a  layer  first  of  one  fruit,  then  of  another, 
then  a  la>'er  of  snow  cream,  and  continue 
alternating  till  the  glass  is  filled  with 
the  snow  on  top.     Serve  ice  cold. 

Or  the  layers  may  be  made  in  a  dish, 
and  when  ready  to  serve  pour  over  a  thin 
custard,  made  of  the  yolks  of  four  eggn 
and  a  quart  of  milk  and  a  half  cup  of 
sugar.     Serve   very   cold. 


187 


Apple  Sponge, 

Souffle    de    Pommes. 

1  Pound  of  Apples. 

1    Pound    Sugar.     3     Eggs.     1-2    Box     of 

Gelatine. 

The  Grated  Zest  of  a  Lemon. 

1-2  Pint  of  Boiling  Water. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water,  and  when 
very  clear  skim  the  surface.  Have  the 
apples  pared  and  cored  and  sliced  nicely, 
and  place  them  in  the  syrup.  Let  them 
stew  until  very  tender.  Then  add  the 
gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold 
water,  to  the  mixture,  and  when  well 
done  press  all  through  a  sieve.  Then  add 
the  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemons,  using 
only  the  zest  of  the  rind  in  grating  the 
lemon.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  cool  and 
thicken.  Then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  stirring  and  beat- 
ing until  cool  and  thick.  Use  the  yolks 
for  a  Vanilla  Sauce  (see  recipe),  and  turn 
the  Apple  Sponge  in  a  dish  and  serve  with 
the   sauce   poured   over   it. 

Peach  Sponge  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Strawberry    Sponge. 

Souffle  de  Praises. 

1-2  Pint  of  Strawberries. 
1-2  Cup  of  iSMgar.  4  Eggs. 
1  Pint   of  Boiling  Water. 

Stew  the  strawberries  gently,  and  press 
them  through  a  sieve.  Soak  the  gelatine 
in-  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  an  hour,  and 
then  dissolve  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
Sherry  wine.  Pour  it  into  the  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  dissolve  well.  Add  the 
sugar,  and  let  it  thicken  gently.  Then 
strain,  and  add  the  strawberries,  and  set 
it  upon  ice  to  cool.  Occasionally  stir  to 
prevent  the  fruit  from  settling  at  the 
bottom.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  to  the  sponge 
beating  steadily  till  very  smooth.  Set  in 
a  fancy  bowl  to  harden,  and  serve  with 
Vanilla  Sauce  poured  over  it.  (iSee  Va- 
nilla Sauce.) 

Blackberry  Sponge,  Lemon  Sponge, 
Orange,  Raspberry,  Currant  and  Fig  and 
Pineapple  Sponge  are  made  in  the  same 
way. 

Apple  Sago. 

Pommes   au    Sagou. 

1   Cup   of  Sago.     8   Large  Apples. 

1    Quart    of    Boiling     Water.     Sweetened 

Cream. 

Soak  the  Sago  for  half  an  hour  in  cold 
water,  and  then  put  it  in  a  farina  boiler 
and  add  one  quart  of  toiling  water.  Pare 
the  apples,  and  add  to  the  Sago,  and  let 
all  boil  together  till  very  tender.  Sweet- 
en to  taste.  Then  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve 
with  cream. 

Tapioca  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
Sago,  and  you  will  then  have  Apple 
Tapioca.  Cherry,  Orange,  Peach  and 
other  fruit  tapiocas  and  sagoes  are  mada 
In  the  same  way. 

AMBBOSIA. 
Ambroisie. 

1    Dozen    Sweet    Louisiana    Oranges. 

1   Cup   of  White   Suear.    1   Cocoanut. 

Grate  tne  cocoanut  after  paring.  Then 
peel  and  slice  the  oranges,  taking  out  the 
seeds.  Have  a  nice  large  glass  dish.  Put 
first  a  layer  of  oranges  in  the  dish,  sprin- 
kle with  sugar,  and  then  a  layer  of 
cocoanut,  till  all  the  oranges  and  cocoa- 
nut  are  used,  the  layer  of  cocoanut  be- 
ing the  last.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
■white  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  about  two 


hours  before  serving.  This  is  a-  famous 
Creole   dessert. 

Pineapple    and    Orange    Ambroeia. 

Ambroisie    d'Ananas    et    d'Oranges. 

1  Large,   Ripe   Pineapple. 

6   Oranges.     1   Cup    of   Sugar. 

1  Glass  of  Sherry  or  White  Wine. 
Slice  one  large,  ripe  pineapple  and  six 

oranges.  Put  in  a  glass  bowl  one  layer 
of  oranges,  sprinkle  pulverized  sugar  over 
them;  then  one  layer  of  pineapples,  also 
sprinkled  with  sugar  and  continue  till 
all  the  fruit  is  used.  Pour  a  wineglass- 
ful  of  Sherry  or  White  wine  over  the 
top.  Let  it  stand  about  two  hours  before 
serving.     This  is  a  typical  Creole  dessert. 

Minute  Cake. 

Tot   Fait. 

6   Eggs.    5   Tablespoonfuls   of   Sugar. 
3    Tablespoonfuls    Flour.     2    Tablespoon- 
fuls Milk. 
The  Juice  and  Rind  of  a  Lemon. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  cream, 
and  then  add  the  sugar,  beating  thor- 
oughly till  very,  very  light.  Then  blend 
the  flour  and  milk  until  smooth,  and 
add.  Add  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and 
the  grated  zest,  and  beat  well  again. 
Then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  thick  froth,  turn  into  a  buttered  dish 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Strawberry    Short    Cahe. 

Pate  Brisee  aux  Fraises. 

1-2  Pound  of  Sifted  Flour.    3-4  Pound  of 
Sugar. 

2  Quarts   of  Strawberries. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

6    Eggs. 

1   Quart   of   Cream. 

1-2  Pound  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Stem  the  strawberries.  Sweeten  to 
taste,  and  slightly  mash.  Then  set  them 
aside.  Blend  the  sugar  and  butter  to- 
gether until  very  smooth,  and  add  the 
baking  powder,  and  blend  well.  Add  the 
salt.  Then  add  the  eggs,  breaking  them 
in  whole,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  all  well 
fcT  ten  minutes.  Add  the  grated  zest  of 
half  a  lemon;  by  degrees  add  the  flour, 
and  mix  all  together  very  gently.  Di- 
vide into  two  parts;  put  one  into  well- 
buttered  baking  tins  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  thirty  minutes.  When  done, 
remove  the  cakes  and  allow  them  to  cool. 
Detach  the  cakes  from  the  tins  by  pass- 
ing a  knife  gently  around.  Have  a  des- 
sert dish  ready  and  lay  one  of  the  cakes 
upon  it.  Spread  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
whipped  cream  over,  and  then  cover  lib- 
erally with  strawberries.  Cover  with 
another  cake  and  spread  as  before  with 
cream  and  then  with  strawberries.  Lay 
the  other  cake  on  top  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar.  Serve  with  "Whipped 
Cream  a  la  Vanille"  (see  recipe),  or  with 
rich  cream  or  milk. 

Peach  Shortcake,  Raspberry  Shortcake 
and  Blackberry  Shortcake  are  made  in 
the  same  way. 

CREAMS. 
Des  Cremes. 

General    Directions    for    Making     Cream 
Desserts. 

In  making  creams  for  desserts,  one  un- 
failing rule  must  be  observed.  In  mak- 
ing a  cream  to  serve  six  or  eight  persons, 
use  either  a  half  box  of  prepared  gela- 
tine, or  half  a  pint  of  home-made  gela- 
tine. The  latter.  If  properly  made,  is  al- 
ways the  best,  as  well   as  the  most  eco- 


188 


nomical.  The  gelatine  must  be  soakeJ 
for  about  half  an  hour  before  using  In 
water  just  sufficient  to  cover.  This  is  for 
the  purpose  of  softening  it.  Or  it  may 
be  moistened  with  a  little  iSherry  or  Ma.- 
deira  wine.  This  is  according  to  the  taste 
and  the  usages  of  the  family.  The  cream 
must  always  be  whipped,  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  must  be  beaten  separately  trom  the 
whites,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  must 
be  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  In  using  flav- 
oring extracts,  select,  according  to  taste, 
Essence  of  Vanilla,  Lemon,  Pineapple, 
Almonds,  Aromatic  Roses,  Orange  Flower 
"Water,  etc. 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly,  or  Gelatine. 

Gelee    de    Pieds    de   Veau. 

4  Calf's   Feet.     5   Quarts   of   Cold   Water. 

1  Pint  of  White  Wine  or  Sherry. 
Juice  of  2  Lemons.     Juice  of  2  Oranges. 

1-2  of  the  Zest  of  a  Lemon,  Grated. 

The    Whites    and    the    Crushed    Shells    of 

2   Eggs. 

1  Pound  of  White  Sugar. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

1  Stick  of  Grated  Cinnamon. 

W^ash  the  feet  well,  scrubbing  them 
thoroughly,  in  cold  water.  Then  put  them 
into  a  kettle  to  boil  with  the  five  quart.s 
of  cold  water  given  above.  Let  theia 
simmer  slowly  for  at  least  seven  or  eight 
hours,  till  the  liquor  is  reduced  one-half. 
Then  strain  the  liquid  into  an  earthen 
bowl,  and  set  it  away  for  at  least  twelve 
hours,  or  over  night.  Then  skim  care- 
fully every  particle  of  fat  from  the  sur- 
face, and  remove  all  sediment  or  dregs 
from  the  jelly.  Put  it  into  a  porcelain- 
lined  kettle,  and  set  over  the  fire,  and  let 
it  melt  slowly.  Add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  well  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  the 
crushed  shells,  the  ground  cinnamon,  the 
nutmeg,  the  sugar  and  lemon  and  orange 
juice,  and  the  zest  of  the  lemon.  Mix 
all  these  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  let 
the  jelly  boil  hard,  without  stirring  again, 
for  twenty  minutes.  Then  add  half  a  cup 
of  water,  and  let  it  come  again  to  a  boil. 
Set  it  back  on  the  stove,  where  it  cannot 
boil,  and  keep  it  closely  covered  for  half 
an  hour.  lETave  ready  a  flannel  bag,  and 
dip  it  into  boiling  water.  Hang  It  up 
with  a  bowl  underneath,  and  pour  the 
jelly  into  the  bag,  suspending  the  bag 
from  the  end  of  a  thick,  short  pole, 
where  it  can  drip  easily.  Tie  the  end  of 
the  bag,  and  let  the  jelly  drip  freely.  On 
no  account  squeeze  or  touch  it,  if  you 
wish  to  have  an  unclouded  jelly.  Then 
turn  the  drippings  into  a  bowl  or  mold, 
add  the  wine,  and  set  to  cool  in  a  cool 
place.  Tou  will  then  have  the  genuine 
Calf's  Foot  Jelly,  and  will  know  that  It 
has  not  been  made  of  the  horns  and 
hoofs    of   animals,   etc. 

Whipped    Cream. 

Creme    Fouettee. 

1  Pint  of  Sweet  Cream. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

6  Drops  of  Jamaica  Rum. 

In  whipping  cream  remember  that  the 
first  great  essential  is  to  have  good 
cream,  and  that  the  great  secret  of  whip- 
ping depends  upon  the  rights  steady 
stroke.  Always  set  the  cream  on  ice  for 
several  hours  before  using.  Then  sweeten 
it  to  taste,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  Ja- 
maica Rum.  Have  ready  a  second  bowl, 
beat  the  cream,  or,  rather,  whip  it,  as 
you  would  in  beating  eggs  to  a  froth, 
with  clear,  steady  strokes,  using  an  egg 
beater,  or,  if  you  have  a  small  crank 
churn,  which  is  better,  use  it,  pressing 
the  dasher  up  and  down  very  hard,  ana 


removing  the  cream  as  it  rises  around 
the  dashboard.  In  the  same  way  remove 
the  cream  as  it  rises,  while  beating  with 
the  egg  beater,  putting  the  whipped  por- 
tion into  the  second  bowl,  and  continuing 
the  process  of  whipping  until  all  the 
cream  is  drained.  Set  on  ice,  and  it  will 
keep  cool,  fresh  and  sweet  and  firm. 

The  above  process  is  intended  when  the 
cream  is  to  be  used  as  a  garnish  for  des- 
serts. Any  essence  may  be  used,  instead 
of  the  rum.  Wlien  whipping  cream  for 
coffee,  or  when  you  desire  the  plain 
whipped  cream,  do  not  use  sugar  or  es- 
sence, but  simply  proceed  to  whip  the 
cream  as  direcfted  above.  Good,  rich 
milk  may  be  whipped  into  the  cream. 

Having  given  the  above'  explicit  direc- 
tions, it  will  be  easy  for  even  the  veriest 
amateur  to  make  any  of  the  following 
delightful  Creole  cream  desserts: 

Whipped  Cream  and  Strawberries,  Basp- 
berries.   Blackberries,   etc. 

Creme   Fouettee   aux   Fraises   ou   aux 
Framboises   ou  aux   Mures,  etc. 

1   Pint    of    Berries. 

1  Pint  of  WTiipped  Cream. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

Stem  the  berries,  sprinkle  nicely  with 
white  sugar,  and  set  aside  for  several 
hours  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  with  the 
whipped  cream,  dishing  the  berries  first 
in  serving,  and  heaping  the  cream  pret- 
tily  on   top. 

Whipped   Cream   With   Peaches,   Cherrlea, 
etc. 

Creme  Fouettee,  aux  Peches,  aux  Cerises, 
etc. 

1  Pint  of  Fruit,   Peaches,   or  Cherries,  or 

Bananas,  or  Pears,  etc. 

1  Pint  of  Whipped  Cream. 

1    Cup    of    Sugar. 

Stone  the  peaches,  and  slice  or  cut 
them  nicely,  adding  sugar  to  taste.  In 
like  manner  stone,  but  do  not  cut  th'a 
cherries  if  this  fruit  is  used.  If  bananas 
or  pears  are  preferred  peel  and  slice 
nicely.  Seed  the  pears.  Sprinkle  the 
fruit  with  sugar,  and  set  it  aside  in  a 
cool  place  tor  two  hours;  and  serve 
with  the  whipped  cream,  heaping  it  in 
generous  measure  at  the  moment  of  serv- 
ing. All  fruits  that  may  be  eaten  with 
cream  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Whipped   Cream    With   Hqnors. 

Creme  Fouettee  aux  Liqueurs. 

1-2  Gill  of  Liqueur. 
1    Pint    of    Whipped    Cream. 

It  is  simply  necessary  just  before  whip- 
ping the  cream,  to  add  a  few  drops  of 
the  liqueur  with  which  you  wish  to  fla- 
^'or    the    cream. 

Whipped    Cretim    With    Vanilla,    etc. 

Creme  Fouettee  a  la  VaniUe,  etc. 

1    Pint    of    Cream. 

2  Ounces  of  Powdered   Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

Put  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  into  a  basin, 
add  the  sugar  and  the  essence  and  pro- 
ceed to  whip  according  to  the  directions 
given  in  "Whipped  Cream"  (see  recipe.) 
Always  remember  to  add  the  essence 
before  whipping  the  cream.  This  is  the 
unvarying  rule  to  be  observed  whenever 
you  wish  to  flavor  with  anv  extract. 


189 


Foamy  Cream. 

Creme   en   Mousse. 
1  Pint  of  Whipped  Cream. 

1  Gill   of  any   Liquor  desired. 

Proceed  exactly  as  in  tlie  above  recipe, 
using  a  gill  of  any  liquor  desired. 

Foamy   Cream    With   Rum. 

Creme  en  Mousse  au  Rhum. 

1    Pint    of    Whipped    Cream.      1    Gill    of 
Rum. 

2  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Whip  a  pint  of  fresh  sweet  cream,  ad- 
ding a  gill  of  rum  and  whipping  till  it 
reaches  a  stiff  froth.  Then  transfer  to 
a  china  bowl  and  set  on  ice  till  ready 
to  use.  Have  a  dessert  dish  ice  cold  when 
ready  to  serve  and  drop  the  cream  into 
this  spoon  by  spoon,  with  greatest  care 
so  that  it  will  not  fall,  and  pile  up  hign 
in  a  pretty  pyramid  shape  and  serve 
immediately. 

Whipped    Cream    With    Kirsch, 

Creme  Fouette  au  Kirsch. 

1    Pint    of    Whipped    Cream.      1    Gill    of 
Kirsch. 

Prepare  the  cream  exactly  as  in  above 
recipe,  only,  instead  of  the  rum,  substi- 
tute a   gill   of  Kirsch. 

Whipped  Cream   With  Maraschino. 

Creme  Fouette  au  Maraschino. 

1    Pint    of    Whipped    Cream.       1    Gill    of 
Maraschino. 

Prepare  exactly  as  in  the  direction  for 
Creme  en  Mousse  with  Rum,  substituting 
a  gill  of  Maraschino  instead  of  the  Rum. 

Whipped    Cream    With    Cognac. 

Creme   Fouette   au   Cognac. 

1    Pint    of    Cream.      2    Tablespoonfuls    of 

Powdered     Sugar. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  in  the  directions  for  Whipped  Cream 
with  Rum,  substituting  instead  a  gill  of 
good  old  Cognac.  Serve  in  the  same  man- 
ner directed. 

Whipped    Cream    With    Curacoa. 

Creme  Fouette  au  Curacao. 

1  Pint  of  Cream.     2  Ounces  of  Powdered 

Sugar. 

1   Gill   of   Curacoa. 

Proceed    in    exactly    the    same    manner 

as  in  the  directions   for  Whipped  Cream 

with   Rum,   adding,   instead   of   the   Rum, 

one    gill    of    Curacoa. 

Whipped  Cream  With  Coffee. 

Creme    Fouette    au    Cafe. 
1  Pint  of  Whipped  Cream. 
2  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 
3  Ounces  of  Extract  of  Coffee. 
Make     three     ounces     of     Creole     Cafe 
Noir.       (See    recipe.)     Take    three    table- 
spoonfuls    and    add    to    the    cream    and 
sugar.     Then  proceed  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as   in   Whipped   Cream  with  Va- 
nilla.     When    ready    to    serve,    heap    the 
cream  in  the  center  of  a  very  cold  dish, 
using    artistic    taste,    and    serve    immedi- 
ately. 

Iji£:ht    Cream. 

Creme    Legere. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.     1  Pint  of  Cream. 

4  or  5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  White 

Sugar. 

2   Fresh    Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 


To  one  pint  of  milk  add  the  same  quan- 
tity of  cream,  and  four  or  five  table- 
spoonfuls of  powdered  white  sugar.  Let 
it  boil  till  reduced  to  one-half  the  quan- 
tity. Take  off  the  stove,  and  whip  in  the 
whites  of  two  fresh  Creole  eggs,  and. 
when  it  is  as  white  as  snow,  add  a  half 
pint  of  whipped  cream.  Place  upon  the 
fire,  and  let  it  simmer  gently,  stirring 
continually.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of 
orange  -flower  water,  or  other  essence, 
take  off,  let  it  cool,  and  serve  when 
cold. 

Street  Almond  Cream. 

Creraie   d'Amandes   Douces. 

6    Nice    Almonds. 

1    Quart    of    Milk.      The    Whites    of    Twd 

Eggs. 

4  Ounces  of  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

Take  six  nice  almonds  and  shell  them. 
Then  blanch  them  by  throwing  into 
boiling  water,  and  letting  them  stand  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  for  five  minutes. 
Then  throw  into  cold  water,  and  take  out 
the  inner  skins  by  rubbing  them  to- 
gether with  the  hands.  Whip  in  one 
quart  of  milk,  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
and  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Let 
the  milk  boil  slowly  on  the  fire  till  it 
is  reduced  one-half,  and  then  add  the 
almonds,  which  you  will  have  chopped 
fine,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Orange 
Flower  Water,  and  let  the  mixture  boil 
for  three  minutes  longer.  Set  it  to  cool. 
Then  garnish  with  almonds  that  have 
been  passed  in  Caramel  or  melted  sugar 
and  allowed  to  cool. 

Burnt   Cream. 

Creme    au    Caramel. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.    1  Pint  of  Cream. 

4  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar.     The  Tolks 

of  3  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Caramel. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  pint 
of  cream  together.  Add  four  ounces  of 
powdered  white  sugar  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  nicely  beaten  together  till 
very  light.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  Cara- 
mel (see  recipe),  let  it  reduce  one-half, 
strain,  garnish  nicely  with  any  fruits, 
and  serve  cold. 

Creamed    Coffee. 

Creme  au  Cafe. 

2  Ounces  of  Finely  Ground  Coffee. 
1  Pint  of  Milk.     1-2  Pint  of  Cream. 

4  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 
The  Tolks  of  3  Eggs. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  finely  ground  and 
powdered  coffee  in  one  pint  of  milk.  Add 
one-half  pint  of  cream  as  it  begins  to 
boil.  Then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
which  have  been  well  beaten  with  four 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Let  it  reduce 
one-half,  take  off  and  strain  till  clear, 
let  it  cool  and  serve. 

White   Coffee   Cream. 

Creme    Blanche    au    Cafe. 

2    Ounces   of   Coffee.     1   Pint   of   Milk. 

1-2  Pint  of  Cream.     4  Ounces  of  Powdered 

Sugar. 

The  Yolks  of  3  Eggs. 

To  make  a  "Creme  Blanche  au  Cafe," 
parch  two  ounces  of  coffee,  and  throw 
the  grains,  while  hot,  into  the  boiling 
milk.     Then  proceed  exactly  as  above. 


190 


Chocolate   Cream, 

Creme  au  Chocolat. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.    1  Pint  of  Cream. 

Tollts  of  3  Eggs.     4  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

2  Ounces  of  Grated  Chocolate. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  pint  of 
cream.  Add,  while  boiling,  three  yolks 
of  eggs,  beaten  well  with  four  ounces  oC 
sugar.  Stir  constantly,  and  let  it  reduce 
one-half.  Add  two  ounces  of  grated 
chocolate.  Let  it  boil  three  or  four  min- 
utes, take  off,  and  serve  when  very  cold. 

Macaroon   Cream. 

Creme   au    Macarons. 

6  Macaroons.     1  Pint  of  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 

1-2  White   Praline. 

2   Ounces   of  Powdered   White   Sugar. 
The  Tolks  of  4  Fresh  Eggs. 

Crumble  six  macaroons  (a  macaroon  is 
a  small  cake,  made  of  almonds  and  sugar 
— see  recipe),  soak  them  in  a  pint  of 
milk;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  Orange 
Flower  Water,  in  which  you  have  put 
one-half  of  a  mashed  Praline  (see  recipe 
Pralines),  and  add  two  ounces  of  sugar, 
and  the  yolks  of  tour  fresh  Creole  eggs, 
well  beaten  till  light.  Set  on  the  stove 
and  let  It  simmer  constantly  till  reduced 
almost  one-half.  Let  it  cool,  and  serve 
In  the  glass  in  which  it  was  cooled. 

Chestnat  Cream, 

Creme  de  Marrons, 

2  Dozen  Chestnuts. 

Tolks   of  2   Eggs. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Butter.    1    Pint     of 

Cream. 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 

4  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Shell  the  chestnuts  and  blanch  them, 
and  pound  sufficient  quantity  to  make 
two  ounces  reduced  to  flour.  Or  roast 
two  dozen  chestnuts  and  peel  them 
(which  is  far  better),  and  pound  them  till 
very  fine,  and  blend  with  a  little  milk 
till  you  have  a  thick  paste.  Add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  butter. 
Beat  well,  and  add  four  ounces  of  pow- 
dered white  sugar.  Beat  all  this  very 
light,  and  put  into  one  pint  of  boiling 
milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  cream.  Let 
it  boil  for  about  ten  minutes,  and  then 
take  off,  strain,  decorate  in  a  glass  dish, 
and  serve  cold. 

Peanut    Cream, 

Creme    aux    Pistaches. 

4  Ounces  of  Fresh  Peanuts. 
The   Zest   of  1   Lemon.     1   Gill    of  Water. 

1-2  Pint  Each  of  Milk  and  Cteam, 

1 1-2   Ounces    of   Powdered    White   Sugar, 

1    Ounce    of    Gelatine. 

Peel  four  ounces  of  fresh  peanuts,  and 
pound  them  into  a  flour.  The  quantity 
must  equal  four  ounces  shelled.  Add  the 
grated  zest  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  wa- 
ter, sufficient  to  make  all  into  a  thick 
paste.  Boll  each  quantities  of  milk  and 
cream  to  equal  a  pint  and  a  half,  and 
add  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  white  pow- 
dered sugar.'  Let  it  cool,  and  add  a  pleca 
of  gelatine,  blended  with  one  spoon  of 
water.  Mix  well  and  then  strain  through 
a  sieve.  Put  the  cream  back  on  the  fire 
to  heat,  and  add  the  peanuts.  Let  all 
come  to  a  good  boil,  take  off  and  set  It 
to  cool  in  a  coiol  place,  and  serve  cold. 


Snow  Cream, 

Creme    a    la    Neige. 

1  Pint  of  Fresh,  Sweet  Cream. 

8  Tablespoonfuls  of  White  Powdered 

Sugar. 

The    Whites    of    2    Eggs. 

1  c'offeespoon   of  Orange  Flower  Water, 

Add  to  one  pint  of  fine,  fresh,  sweet 
cream  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  white  pow- 
dered sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  well 
beaten  to  a  froth,  one  coffeespooniul  of 
Orange  Flower  Water,  and  whip  all  to- 
gether steadily  till  the  cream  rises,  taking 
it  out  as  it  does,  and  putting  In  another 
bowl,  as  In  "Creme  Fouettee  (see  recipe, 
till  all  is  drained.  Place  it  in  a  little 
basket,  lined  with  a  fine  linen  napkin, 
and  serve  as  quickly  as  possible. 

The  cream  may  be  varied  by  coloring 
it  with  a  little  Saffron  Powder  to  make 
it  yellow,  with  carmine  or  cochineal  to 
make  it  pink  and  rosy,  only,  when  doing 
this,  add  a  little  aromatic  essence,  such 
as  vanilla,  lemon  or  pineapple. 

All  the  above  creams  may  be  served 
with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

Bavarian    Creams. 

Bavaroise. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

1-2  Pint  of  Gelatine,  or  1-2  Box. 

1  Gill  of  Cold  Water.     1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

The  Tolks  of  4  Eggs. 

1   Tablespoonful    of  Vanilla  or  Rum, 

First  of  all,  in  making  all  Bavarian 
creams,  follow  implicitly  the  general  di- 
rections given  for  making  Cream  Des- 
serts, viz:  Soaking  the  gelatine,  and,  be- 
fore whipping  the  cream,  cool  it  for  at 
least  an  hour  on  the  ice.  Then  put  one 
pint  of  fresh  cream  or  milk  in  a  farina 
boiler,  and  add  the  sugar,  and  bring  It 
to  a  boil.  As  it  boils  pour  in  the  gela- 
tine. Stir  constanly  till  the  latter  is  well 
dissolved  and  blended,  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a 
cream,  and  stir  them  in  the  cold  cream, 
blending  and  beating  vigorously.  Then 
add  the  Vanilla  or  Rum,  and  set  it  away 
on  the  ice.  \^'hen  the  boiled  cream  is 
quite  cold,  and  has  begun  to  thicken,  stir 
it  till  perfectly  smooth,  and  then  stir  in 
the  whipped  cream  ivith  a  few  light 
strokes.  Have  ready  the  mold  or  freezer, 
well  rinsed,  and  fill  with  the  cream.  Set 
it  away  to  cool  and  when  quite  firm  turn 
It  out,  and  serve  with  plain  cream  or 
whipped  cream. 

Apricot  Bavarian   Cream. 

Creme    Bavaroise    aux    Abrlcots. 

1  Pint  of  Fresh  Apricots  or  1  Pint  Can 

1-2  Box   of  Gelatine,   or  1-2  Pint. 
1  Pint  cf  Cold  Water.    1  Pint  of  Cream 

Soak  the  gelatine  and  whip  the  cream. 
If  the  apricots  are  fresh,  stew  them  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  If  canned,  press  them 
through  a  colander  or  sieve.  Proceed  to 
add  a  gelatine,  which  has  been  dissolved 
In  a  little  boiling  water,  and  then  turn 
into  a  bowl.  Stand  upon  cracked  ice,  and 
stir  constantly  till  it  begins  to  thicken, 
and  then  a,dd  the  whipped  cream,  stirring 
constanly  till  mixed  well.  Turn  Into  a 
mold  to  harden  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

Peajh  of  Plum  Bavarian  Cream  may 
be  made  In  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
the  above,  using  eight  or  nine  fresh 
peaches,  stoned,  or  a  one-pint  can  of 
fresh   ones.     Use   one   pint  of  plums. 


191 


Strawberry   Bavarian   Cream. 

Creme  Bavaroise  aux  Fralses. 

1  Quart  of  Fresh,  Stemmed  Strawberries. 
1-2  Box  of  Gelatine,   or  1-2  Pint. 
1  Pint  of-  Cream.     1  Cup  of  Sugar. 
3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Water. 
Soak    the     gelatine,     and    prepare    the 
whipped    cream.     Then   mash    the    straw- 
berries and  press   them  through  a  sieve. 
Add  the  white  powdered  sugar.     Melt  the 
gelatine  by  standing  over  boiling  water, 
and  then  add  it  to  the  strawberry  juice. 
Mix  thoroughly.     Then  turn  it  into  a  tin 
pan   or  mold,  set  the  basin  on  a  pan   of 
cracked   ice,   stir   constanly   till   it   begins 
to    thicken,    and    then    add    the    whipped 
cream,    stirring    it    gradually    till    all    is 
thoroughly     mixed.     Then     pour     into     a 
mold   and   stand   in    an    ice-cc'ld   place   to 
harden. 

Raspberry    BaTarian    Cream. 

Creme    Bavaroise    aux    Framboises. 

1  Pint  of  Raspberry  Juice. 
1  Pint  of  Cream.     1-2   Cup   of  Sugar. 

1-2  Pint  of  Gelatine. 
Proceed    in    exactly    the    same    manner 
as  for  Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream. 

Pineapple    Bavarian    Cream. 

Creme  Bavaroise   a   I'Ananas. 
1    Pint    of    Grated    Pineapple.    1    Pint    of 

1  Cup  of  Sugar.    1-2  Pint  of  Gelatine. 
1-2  Cup  of  Cold  Water. 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  the  water,  and 
let  it  soak  for  half  an  hc-ur.  Then  stand 
it  over  boiling  water,  and  let  it  melt. 
Grate  the  pineapple,  and  add  the  sugar, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  reduced  to  a 
liquid.  Then  stir  the  gelatine  into  the 
pineapple,  and  dissolve  thoroughly. 
Place  it  in  a  tin  vessel,  and  stand  over 
cracked  ice,  stirring  constantly.  When  it 
begins  to  thicken,  add  the  whipped  cream, 
and  set  away  to  harden,  after  turning 
into  the  mold.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

Lemon  Bavarian  Cream  is  made  in  the 
same  manner. 

Coffee    Bavarian    Cream. 

Creme  Bavaroise  au  Cafe. 

L  Strong  Cup  of  Cafe  No'ir.     (See  recipe). 
1  Teaspoonful  of  "Vanilla. 

1-2  Pint  of  Gelatine.    1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1-2    Cup    of    Water.     1    Pint    of    Whipped 

Cream 

The  Yolks  of  i  Eggs. 

Soak  the  gelatine  and  whip  the  cream 
After  half  an  hoiir,  pour  it  into  the  boil- 
ing coffee,  and  dissolve  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  sugar,  and  stir  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  milk.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Stir  stead- 
ily and  carefully  until  all  the  ingredients 
have  thoroughly  blended.  Then  set  it  on 
the  fire  to  thicken  slightly,  stirring  all 
toe  time,  but  be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil, 
or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Then  set  aside 
to  cool  slightly;  pour  it  into  a  basin,  and 
set  over  cracked  ice,  and  add  the  whipped 
cream  as  it  thickens.  Then  turn  Into  a 
mold,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Caramel  Bavarian   Cream, 

Creme  Bavaroise  au  Caramel. 

1-2  Pint  of  Gelatine. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar.     1-2  Cup  of  Water. 

1    Pint    of    Whipped    Cream.    1    Gill    of 

Sherry   Wine. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Caramel. 


^Proceed  exactly  as  above,  using  the 
same  ingredients,  except  the  eggs  and 
coffee,  substituting  instead  of  the  coffee 
a  gill  of  the  best  Sherry  wine  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  Caramel.  (See  recipe.) 
Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream. 
Creme  Bavaroise  au  Chocolat. 

2  Large  Tablespoonfuls  of  Chocolate. 

1    Pint     Milk.     1     Pint    Cream.     1-2    Cup 

■Sugar. 

1-2  Pint  of  Gelatine. 

Yolks  of  4  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful   of   Vanilla   or   Rum. 

2  Ounces    of   Best   French   Chocolate. 

Prepare  the  gelatine  and  cream  accord- 
ing to  general  directions.  (See  recipe.) 
Grate  the  chocolate  and  set  the  milk  to 
boil.  Then  add  the  grated  chocolate, 
stirring  slowly  until  all  is  dissolved.  Take 
the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  and  add  the 
sugar,  mixing  well,  and  the  vanilla  and 
Rum,  Turn  it  into  a  tin  vessel  to  cool; 
set  the  vessel  over  cracked  ice,  and  stir 
constantly  till  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then 
stir  the  whipped  cream  in  carefully,  and 
pour  the  mixture  into  a  mold,  and  se* 
in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Orange    Bavarian    Cream. 

Creme  Bavaroise  a  I'Orange. 
6  Louisiana  Oranges.  The  Yolks  of  5 
Eggs. 
1  Pint  of  Cream,  1  Pint  of  Milk. 
1  Cup  of  Sugar.  1-2  Box  Gelatine,  or  1-2 
Pint. 
Whip  the  cream  and  prepare  the  gela- 
tine according  to  general  directions.  (See 
recipe  Bavarian  Cream.)  Set  the  milk 
to  boil,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  add 
the  gelatine.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
very  light,  and  add  the  sugar,  beating 
very  light;  strain  the  milk  and  gelatine, 
and  add  the  sugar  and  yolks,  stirring 
constantly  till  well  mixed.  Set  over  the 
fire  for  two  minutes,  and  then  set  it 
away  to  cool.  When  cold,  stir  in  the 
orange  juice,  which  yC'U  will  strain 
through  a  sieve.  S'et  the  basin  in  a  pan 
of  cracked  ice,  and  stir  until  it  begins 
to  thicken,  and  then  stir  in  the  whipped 
cream  very  carefully,  and  proceed  to  turn 
into  a  mold  to  harden.  Always  wet  th« 
mold  first  with  cold  water  before  turn- 
ing in  the  cream.  When  cold,  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Velvet  Cream. 

Creme    Veloute. 

1  Pint  of  Cream.     1  Pint  of  Milk. 
5  Ounces  of  Sugar. 
Juice  of  1  Lemon.    3  Tablespoonfuls  Milk, 
1-2   Pint   of   Gelatine. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  water,  and  let 
it    dissolve    well.     Set    the    milk    to    boil, 
and  add  the  powdered  sugar.     Then  dis- 
solve the  gelatine  in  it.     Take  off  the  fire, 
and   add,    as   it   cools,   essence   of   vanilla 
or   orange,    using   about   two   tablespoon- 
fuls.    Mix   well.     Then    add    the   whipped 
cream,  set  over  the  fire  one  minute,  pour 
into  a  mold  to  harden,  and  serve  cold. 

Wlrie  Cream. 
Creme  au  Vin. 

The  Yolks  of  8  Eggs. 
1  Cup  Sugar. 
1  Quart  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  Wine. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  well  together, 
and  add  gradually  one  quart  of  Madeira 
or   Sherry   wine,   flavored  with  lemon   or 
vanilla.     Set    the    vessel    in    which    they 
were   mixed    in    another   containing    boil- 
ing water.     Let  the  mixture  simmer  until 


192 


the  cream   is  perfectly  formed,  and  then 
set  to  cool.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Spanish   Cream. 

Creme   a   I'Espagnole. 

1  Quart  of   Millc.     The  Tolks  of  5  Eggs. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar.     1-2  Pint  of  Gelatine. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  "Vanilla. 

Soak  the  gelatine  and  whip  one  pint 
of  cream.  Set  the  milk  to  boil,  and  add 
the  gelatine,  which  you  will  have  dis- 
solved in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
Have  the  eggs  and  sugar  beaten  very 
light,  and,  as  the  milk  boils  up,  add  the 
sugar  and  eggs,  but  do  not  let  them  boil, 


or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Stir  well,  and 
turn  the  gelatine,  which  you  will  have 
dissolved  well,  into  the  milk.  Then  ra- 
move  from  the  fire  and  strain,  and  add 
the  essence  of  vanilla.  Have  the  mold 
ready,  clean  and  well  rinsed,  and  turn 
the  cream  into  it.  Set  it  on  ice  to  hard- 
en, and,  when  ready  to  serve,  make  a 
cream  by  whipping  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  into  the  cream  which  has  been 
whipped  with  powdered  sugar.  Turn  the 
cream  into  a  dish,  heap  this  deliclmia 
meringue  cream  over  it,  and  serve  very 
cold. 

Italian  cream  is  made  in  exactly  the 
same  manner  as  above,  only  a  wlneglass- 
ful  of  Brandy  is  added. 


CHAPTER  XXXVI. 
PUDDING  SAUCES. 


Apple   Sance. 

Sauce  aux  Pommes. 


6   Apples.    1  Pint   of   Cold  Water. 

1-2   of   a   Lemon. 

1-2  Pound  of  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

A  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cinnamon. 

1  Gill  of  Brandy. 

Peel  and  quarter  and  seed  the  apples, 
and  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a 
pint  of  cold  water  and  a  quarter  of  a 
lemon.  Let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  press  the  cooked  apples  through  a 
sieve  into  a  bowl,  and  add  the  powdered 
sugar  and  the  cinnamon  and  Brandy, 
Set  back  on  the  stove  and  let  the  juice 
boil  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  with 
apple  puddings,  baked  apples,  dumplings, 
etc. 

Apricot  Sauce, 

Sauce   d'Abrioots. 

4   Ounces   of  Apricot  Marmalade 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Gill  of  Water.     1  Gill  of  Brandy. 

Take  four  ounces  of  Apricot  Marma- 
lade (see  recipe)  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan; add  the  butter  and  water,  and  set 
on  a  brisk  fire;  stir  constantly  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  and  then  add  a  gill  of 
good  Brandy.  Let  the  mixture  cook  tor 
two  minutes  more,  and  serve  with  baked 
apple  dumplings,  boiled  dumplings,  or 
apple  pudding,  as  desired. 

Brandy    Sance. 

Sauce  au  Cognac. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Cup   of  Powdered  Sugar.     Whites  of  2 

Eggs. 

1   Gill   of  Brandy. 

1    Gill    of  Boiling   Water. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together  to 
a  cream,  and  add  the  sugar,  beating  until 
light  and  very  white;  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  putting 
in  one  at  a  time;  whip  these  well  to- 
gether, and  add  the  boiling  water  and 
the  Brandy.  Set  over  the  fire  in  a  bain- 
marie  (boiling  water)  and  stir  till  creamy 
and  no  longer.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 
"P*,?"™®*-,'?:  ^°"-  This  sauce  is  excellent 
with    Blackberry    Roll,    Bread    Puddings, 

When  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  is  left  over. 
''■  ,!"^y  .°®  '^^^  ^""i  squeezed:  add  tbt 
yolks  ot  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a 
pint  of  seeded  raisins;  mix  well,  and  set 
to  bake  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  tho 
sauce  above.  This  makes  a  very  excel- 
lent and  economical  pudding. 


Sauces  de  Poudings. 

Hard  Brandy   Sance. 

fi'auce    Dure   au    Cognac. 


1  Cup    of    Powdered    Sugar.    1-2   Cup   of 

Butter. 

1  Wineglassful  of  Brandy. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cinnamon. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream; 
add  the  Brandy  and  the  powdered  cinna- 
mon and  serve  cold. 

Caramel    Sance. 

Sauce  au  Caramel. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar.    1  Cup  of  Water. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Sherry. 

2  Ground   Cloves.    1   Stick   of  Cinnamon. 

Grated  Zest  of  1-4  Lemon. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  saucepan  and  let  it 
melt  and  brown  to  a  golden  yellow;  add 
the  water  and  the  wine,"  or  essence  and 
spices,  etc.,  and  set  to  cool  after  it  has 
boiled  three  minutes. 

Chanfausen    Sance, 

Sauce  Chaufausen. 

1  Pint  of  Chaufausen  Wine. 
1  Pint  of  Cold  Water. 
3  Tablespoonfuls  ot  Powdered  White 
Sugar. 
6  Cloves.     The  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 
1   Inch   of  Cinnamon.    1   Ounce  of  Corn- 
starch. 

Put  the  sugar,  cinnamon,  zest  of  lemon, 
cloves  and  water  into  a  saucepan  and  set 
on  a  good  fire  and  let  them  come  to  a 
boil,  which  will  be  in  about  five  minutes. 
Then  add  the  cornstarch  diluted  in  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  cold  water  and  stir  it 
briskly  into  the  water.  After  three  min- 
utes of  stirring  add  one  pint  of  Chau- 
fausen wine,  let  it  cook  for  two  minutes 
longer,  and  then  take  off  the  fire,  drain 
through  a  sieve  and  serve  with  puddingj, 
especially  Apple  Pudding. 

Cream  Sance. 

Sauce  a.  la  Creme. 

1  Pint  of  Sweet,  Fresh  Cream. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1  Nutmeg,  Grated. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Vanilla,   or   Sherry  or 

Madeira. 

Add  the  sugar  essence  or  wine  to  the 
cream;  then  stir  constantly  till  thorough- 
ly dissolved.  Beat  vigorously,  and  then 
add  the  nutmeg  and  set  to  cool.  Serve 
with  stewed  apples  and  other  stewed 
fruits,  or  fruit  puddings. 


193 


Cream    of    Butter    Sauce. 

Sauce  a  la  Creme  de  Beurre. 

1-2  Cup  of  Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

i  Tablespoonfuls   of  Elilk   or   Cream. 

Tlie  Juice  and  Rind  of  a  Lemon. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  thick 
cream,  and  add  the  milk  or  cream  grad- 
ually. Then  place  the  mixture  in  a  bowl, 
and  stand  in  a  small  tin  of  boiling  water 
(bain-marie)  and  stir  slowly  till  the 
sauce  is  very  creamy,  but  do  not  allow 
It  to  simmer  or  boil.  It  will,  take  just 
three  or  four  minutes.  As  the  thick 
cream  forms,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the 
lemon  and  serve  with  any  pudding. 

Cream    of    Vanilla    Sauce. 

Sauce  a,  la  Creme  de  Vanille. 

1    Pint    of    Milk. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  White 

Sugar. 

The  Yolks  of  3  Eggs. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Vanilla    Essence. 

1-2  Gill  of  Maraschino   or   Good  Cognac. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  thn 
sugar  well  together,  and  add  the  vanilla 
essence.  Beat  thoroughly.  Boil  the  milk 
and  add  the  beaten  egg  to  the  milk  as  it 
comes  to  a  boil.  Stir  briskly  till  it  comes 
to  a  boil  once  more.  Then  take  from^  the 
fire  and  add  the  Maraschino  or  Brandy 
according  to  taste. 

Custard    Sauce. 
Sauce  Duchesse. 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 

1-2  Cup  of  Powdered  Sugar,     3  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

-  Set  the  milk  to  boil.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  to  a  thick  cream  and  very 
light,  and  then  stir  them  into  the  boiling 
milk.  Stir  over  the  fire  till  the  sauce 
begins  to  thicken,  and  no  longer.  If  you 
stir  too  long  the  sauce  will  curdle.  Take 
It  from  the  fire  and  add  the  Vanilla  and 
serve  cold. 

Foaming    Sauce. 
Sauce    a    la    Neige. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs.    1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1   Gill   of  Boiling   Water. 
1  Glass  of  Sherry  Wine  or  a  Tablespoon- 
ful   of    Vanilla. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to   a  stiff 

froth;  melt  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water, 

and  then  add  a  wineglass  of  Slierry.     Stir 

in  the  frothy  whites,  and  set  to  cool. 

Frnlt    Sance. 

Sauce    aux    Fruits. 

4  Peaches,  Apples,  Apricots  or  Pears. 

1  Cup  Sugar.    1-2  Cup  Water.     1  Pint  of 

Cream. 

Whites   of  2  Eggs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of   Brandy. 

Pare  the  fruit;  take  out  the  stones  or 
core;  slice  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
the  water  and  sugar,  and  let  it  stew 
gently  unil  very  tender.  Then  press 
through  a  colander  or  sieve.  Set  the 
cream  to  boil,  and  then  beat  It  into  the 
fruit  thoroughly.  Take  off  the  fire,  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  set  to  cool,  and  serve  with  fruit 
puddings  made  of  the  same  fruits. 
Golden  Sance, 
Sauce  d'Or. 

The  Yolks  of  2  Eggs.     Juice  of  1  Liemon 

1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  GUI  of  Brandy  or  Sherry. 


Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  until  creamy. 
Set  the  saucepan  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  over  the  fire;  add  the  eggs  that 
have  been  beaten  well  with  the  Brandy 
or  Sherry;  stir  until  the  sauce  becomes  a 
thick  cream;  then  take  from  the  fire,  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  serve  very  hot. 

Hard  Sance. 

Sauce  a   la   Creme   Dure. 

1-4  Cup  of  Butter. 

1  Cup  of  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream 
and  gradually  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  the  flavor- 
ing and  heap  on  a  small  butter  dish, 
sprinkle  with  grated  nutmeg,  and  serve 
cold. 

Hard   Sance   a  la   Creole, 

Sauce   Creole. 

1-4  Cup    of   Butter.    1    Cup   of   Powdered 
Sugar. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  rich 
cream,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
or  a  tablespoonful  of  good  Brandy,  and 
serve  cold.  This  is  a  very  excellent  sauce 
for  baked  dumplings,  etc. 

Kirsch   Sance. 

Sauce   au   Kirsch. 

1-2  Gill  of  Kirsch. 

1    Pint    of    Cold    Water.    1-2    Pound    of 

Sugar. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Cornstarch. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  set  on  the  stove  on  a  brisk  fire; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil;  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  cornstarch  which  has  been 
diluted  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  Stir 
well  for  three  minutes,  and  then  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  immediately  a  half 
gill  of  Kirsch.  Mix  well,  strain  through 
a  sieve  and  serve  with  puddings. 

liCmon   Sance. 

Sauce   au    Citron. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Cornstarch. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1    Pint    of    Boiling    Water.    1-2    Cup    of 

Sugar. 

1  Egg. 
The  Juice  and  Grated  Zest  of  a  Lemon. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream; 
add  the  well-beaten  egg,  and  then  add 
the  cornstarch,  which  you  will  have  dis- 
solved in  a  teaspoonful  of  water.  When 
well  blended  pour  in  slowly  the  boiling 
water,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  set  over 
the  fire  till  it  thickens;  stir  about  three 
minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
juice  and  rind  of  a  grated  lemon.  This 
Sauce  is  much  improved  by  adding  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
after  you  have  taken  it  from  the  fire. 
Madeira  Sauce. 
Sauce  au  Vin  de  Madere. 

2  Cups  of  Sugar.     1-4  Grated  Nutmeg. 

1-2    Cup    of    Butter.     1-2    Cup    of    Boiling 

Water. 

2  Wineglasses  of  Madeira. 

Beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar  to  * 
cream,  using  powdered  sugar,  and  then 
add  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Stir  In 
gradually  two  wineglasses  of  good  Ma- 
uelra  wine  or  Sherry,  and  add  one  tea- 
spoonful of  grated  nutmeg.  Put  into  » 
double  boiler  and  stir  until  the  sauco  Is 
hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Serve,  either 
hot  or  cold,  with  any  pudding. 


194 


Madeira    Sabayon    Sauce. 

Sauce  S'abayon  au  Madere. 

The  Tolks  of  4  Eggs. 

2     Tablespoontula     of     Powdered     White 

Sugar. 

2  <Jills    of    Madeira    Wine. 

The  Zest  of  Half  a  Lemon. 

Beat    the    yolks    of    the    eggs    and    the 

sugar  well  together,  and  when  they  come 

to    a    rich    cream    set    on    the    stove    and 

whip    well    for    two    minutes.     Then    add 

the  zest  of  a  lemon  or  one  tablespoonful 

of      a      lemon,      or      one      tablespoonful 

^r  lemon  essence,  and  drop  in  gradually 

the   Madeira  wine.     Stir  without   ceasing 

for    two    minutes    more,    and    then    serve 

very  hot  with  Fruit,  Bread  Puddings,  etc 

Orange  Sauce. 

Sauce    d'Orange. 

1    Cup    of    Sugar.     2    Tablespoonfuls    of 
Butter. 
1-2  Cup  of  Water. 
The  Juice  and  Grated  Zest  of  2  Oranges. 
2    Eggs.     1    Teaspoonful    Grated    Nut- 
meg. 

Beat  the  sugar,  butter  and  yolks  of  the 
eggs  to  a  cream.  Then  add  the  water 
and  the  Juice  and  grated  zest  of  two 
oranges.  Set  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler; 
add,  If  desired,  when  it  begins  to  sim- 
mer well,  one  tablespoonful  of  wine;  take 
off  the  fire  and  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth.  Serve  either  hot 
or  cold.  If  served  cold,  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  at  the  moment  of  serving, 
as  also  the  grated  nutmeg.  Serve  with 
Orange  Pudding,   Orange  Roly  Poly,  etc. 

Puncli   Sauce. 

Sauce  au   Ponche. 

1  Gill    of   Good   Cognac   or   Rum. 
5  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

The   Juice   of  3   Oranges. 

The    Zest   of    Half   a    Lemon. 

The  Grated  Rind  of  Half  an  Orange. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Essence. 

Put  the  rum  or  brandy,  the  sugar, 
orange  rind,  lemon  zest  and  vanilla  es- 
sence into  a  saucepan  and  set  on  the 
stove.  As  soon  as  the  ingredients  light 
into  a  flame  cover  tightly  with  a  lid  and 
let  all  infuse  tO'gether  for  two  minutes. 
Then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  juice 
of  three  Louisiana  oranges.  Serve  very 
hot  as  a  pudding  sauce. 

Bum   Sauce. 

Sauce   au   Rhum. 

1  Gill  of  Jamaica  Rum. 
6    Ounces    of    Granulated    Sugar. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Caramel.     1    Table- 
spoonful of  Cornstarch. 

1  Pint  of  Water.     The  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 

Put  the  sugar  and  caramel  (see  recipe) 
and  lemon  zest  In  a  saucepan,  and  when 
it  begins  to  boil  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch  diluted  in  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  cold  water.  Let  all  cook  for  three 
minutes,  and  then  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  rum.  Mix  well,  then  strain 
through  a  sieve  into  a  sauce  bowl  and 
serve  hot  with  fruit  puddings  especially. 

Silvery  Sauce. 

Sauce    Argentee. 

1  Cup     of     Sugar.     1     Tablespoonful     of 

Butter. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  or  Lemon. 

2  Cups     of     Milk.     1     Tablespoonful     of 

Brandy. 


Beat  the  sugar  and  the  butter  to  a 
cream.  Set  the  milk  to  boil,  and  as  It 
begins  to  simmer  add  the  sugar  and  but- 
ter. Let  it  simmer  gently  for  a  few  min- 
utes, and  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Add  the  essence,  stirring  till  thor- 
oughly mixed.  Add  the  Brandy  and 
serve,  either  hot  or  cold,  with  any  berry 
pudding. 

Strawberry    Sauce. 

Sauce  aux  Fraises. 

1  CuiJ  of  Cream.     The  Whites  of  2  Eggg. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar.     1-2  Cup  of  Butter. 

1  Cup  of  Fresh  Mashed  Strawberries. 

Mash  the  strawberries,  and  press  them 
through  a  sieve.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream;  whip  the  cream  and 
beat  in  the  strawberries;  then  add  the 
berry  juice  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  Sherry,  if  desired, 
or  Brandy,  anc  serve  with  strawberry 
pudding,  strawberry  shortcake,  or  straw- 
berry pie.  It  may  also  be  served  cold 
with  a  plain  bread  pudding.  Blackberry 
Sauce  may  be  made  and  served  in  the 
same  way.  Add  a  gill  of  Brandy  to  the 
Blackberry  Sauce. 

Vanilla  Sauce. 

Sauce  a  I'Essence  de  Vanille. 

1   Tablespoonful   cf  Vanilla.    4  Eggs. 

1    Pint    of    Milk.       2    Tablespoonfuls    of 

Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Set  the  milk  to  boil,  and  beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  sugar  very  light;  add 
them  to  the  boiling  milk;  stir  for  two 
minutes  over  the  fire.  Take  off  and  add 
the  Vanilla  and  the  whites  of  the  egga 
beaten  to  a  froth;  mix  thoroughly,  and 
serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Velvet   Sauce. 

Sauce   Veloute. 

1 1-2   Cups   of   Powdered    Sugar.    3-4  Cup 

Butter. 

A    Tablespoonful    of   Cornstarch. 

1   Gill   of   Boiling  Water. 

1  Gill  of  White  Wine  or  Maraschino. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
and  blend  the  cornstarch  with  a  little 
cold  water  to  form  a  paste.  Boil  the  gill 
of  water  and  add  the  cornstarch,  stirring 
constantly  as  it  thickens;  coninue  stir- 
ring till  transparent.  Then  add  the  but- 
ter arid  sugar,  stirring  well  till  perfectly 
blended,  being  careful  to  have  the  vessel 
containing  the  sauce  in  a  bain-marie,  or 
another  vessel  of  boiling  water.  Add  a 
gill  of  AVhite  wine  or  Maraschino,  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange,  or  vanlll* 
extract,  according  to  taste.  Serve  hot 
with  any  pudding. 

White   Wine   Sauce. 

Sauce  au  Vin  Blanc. 

1-2  Cup   of  Butter.     2 1-2   Cups  Powdered 

Sugar. 

1-2  Cup  of  Boiling  Water. 

2  Wineglasses  of  AVhite  Wine. 

1   Tablespoonful   Grated   Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 

and  add  the  boiling  water      Set  the  vessel 

containing  the  mixture  into  a  bain-marie 

or  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  in 

gradually  the  White  wine  and  the  grated 

nutmeg.     Let   the   sauce    get   hot,  but  do 

not  let   It  boil.     When    it   forms  a  thick 

cream   take   off,   and   serve  either  hot  or 

cold.    Stir  all  the  time  it  is  on  the  fire. 

Serve  with  anv  pudding. 


195 


CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

CAKES. 
Des  Gateaux. 


There  is  scarcely  a  ,  girl  who  can 
make  good  cake  who  does  not  pride  her- 
self upon  this  accomplishment,  and  "Ma 
Belle  Creole"  is  no  exception  to  this  rule 
She  may  not  be  able  to  make  a 
"Ratatonille,"  a  la  Creole,"  a  "Bisque 
d'Ecrevisses,"  or  turn  a  pigeon  "a  la 
crapaudine,"  but  if  she  knows  how  to 
make  a  "Gateau  a  I'Archange,"  or  a 
"Gateau  d'Amandes,"  it  will  not  'be  long 
before  she  will  treat  you  to  one  of  these 
dainty  Creole  cakes,  which  her  "maman" 
will  be  sure  to  tell  you  "Marguerite 
has  made  all  by  herself." 

The  mixing  and  baking  of  cakes  has 
always  been  held  a  very  important 
branch  of  cookery.  The  baking  is  the 
most  difficult  part,  but  good  cake  making 
depends  quite  as  much  upon  the  quality 
and  quantity  of  the  ingredents  used,  and 
the  manner  of  putting  them  together. 
Attention  to  the  most  minute  detail  in 
mixing  is  required  if  you  seek  success. 
Careless  mixing  will  spoil  the  most  per- 
fect recipe.  The  greatest  accuracy  must 
be  followed  in  proportioning  out  the  in- 
gredents, and  using  just  so  much,  and 
no  more.  Often  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
above  the  amount  specified  will  oaus» 
the  cake  to  crack  open.  The  cream,  th.? 
butter,  the  eggs,  must  be  of  the  best 
quality.  A  stale  egg  will  spoil  the  best 
cake,  as  also  rancid  butter.  No  cake 
should  be  flavored  with  a  poor,  cheap 
extract.  Care  must  be  exercised  in  the 
choice  of  all  the  materials,  care  in  the 
extract  weight  specified,  care  in  the 
proper  heat  of  the   oven.     The  following 

General     Directions     for     Making     Cakes 

should  be  ready  with  care  and  implicitly 
followed : 

A  large  earthen  bowl  is  the  best  for 
mixing  and  beating  the  cakes  and  for 
beating  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  as 
is  "required  in  making  rich  cakes,  such 
as    pound    cakes,    etc. 

The  hand  is  the  best  instrument  for 
working  the  calce,  although  a  wooden 
spoon  will  be  best  for  stirring  in  the 
ingredents.  The  spoon  may  be  used  also 
for  beating,  if  you  do  not  know  how  to 
use  the  hand  dexterously. 

Measure  all  ingredents  carefully  be- 
fore beginning  to  make  the  cake,  anJ 
have  alLat  hand,  within  reach. 

The  whites  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
must  always  be  beaten  separately  for 
fancy    cakes. 

Use  the  white  pulverized  sugar  in  pre- 
ference to  the  white  granulated  for  all 
cakes,  except  gingerbreads,  as  it  makes 
a  lighter  cake.  Sift  the  flour  as  often 
as  the  recipes  specify  and  measure  it 
again  after  sifting. 

If  you  use  cream  of  tartar  instead  of 
baking  powder,  sift  the  cream  of  tartar 
into  the  flour,  and  disolve  the  soda  that 
must  accompany  its  use  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  boiling  water,  and  always  add  it 
to  the  cake  before  you  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs. 
/  One-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  may  be 
used  instead  of  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing   powder    where    the    recipe    calls    for 

Raisins  should  always  be  picked  over 
and  divested  of  the  stems  and  seeded 
before   using. 

In  making  fruit  cake,  prepare  the  fruit 
the  day  before.  ,     , 

Currants  should  be  picked  over,  washed 
and   dried   before   using. 


Always  use  the  butter  thoroughly  and 
drain  of  water  before  making  the  cakt 
and  be  sure  that  it  is  fresh,  sweet,  and 
of  the  very  best  quality. 

Sift  your  flour  before  weighing.  All 
the  following  recipes  are  for  sifted  flour. 

If  you  use  cups  for  measurements  let 
them  be  of  the  same  size  for  all  ingre- 
dents for   the   same   cake. 

iSour  milk  will  make  a  spongy  cake 
and  sweet  milk  will  make  a  cake  wita 
a   close   grain. 

Never  mix  sweet  and  sour  milk  in  the 
same    cake.      Failure    will    be    the    result. 

Let  the  eggs  be  sound  and  fresh,  and 
beat  thoroughly  till  light,  if  you  wish 
your  cake  to  succeed.  Do  not  rely  en- 
tirely on  the  baking  powder  or  the  soda 
for  the  rising.  The  result  of  such  flimsy 
methods  will  be  apparent  in  the  cake. 

Rules   for   Mixing  Ingredients. 

Observe  implicitly  the  following  rules: 

Always  beat  the  yolks  and  the  whites 
separately  for  large  cakes.  Beat  th* 
yolks  in  an  earthern  dish  till  they  begin 
to  froth  and  thicken.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  froth  so  stiff  that  you  can  cut 
through  it  with  a  knife.  Beat  in  a  shal- 
low dish  with  an  egg  beater  or  silver 
fork,  preferably  the  egg  beater. 

Beat  or  stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  rubbing  both  together  steadily  un  ■ 
til  they  form  a  perfect  cream.  Then,  and 
not  till  then,  mix  the  yolks  with  the 
butter  and  sugar.  Beat  these  together 
till  very  light.  Then  add  the  milk,  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Sift  the  baking  powder 
with  the  flour,  and  add  a  little  at  a 
time,  stirring  in  well,  till  all  is  used  up. 
Then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat- 
ing them  in  thoroughly,  and  lastly,  add 
the  flavoring  extract. 

Follow  without  the  least  variation,  thfl 
exact  order  given  above  in  the  mixture  of 
ingredients.  When  the  cake  is  ready  to 
bake,  line  the  pan  with  a  piece  of  but- 
tered paper.  This  will  prevent  the  cake 
from  scorching.  Then  proceed  to  bake 
immediately,  following  the  subjoined  ex- 
plicit. 

Directions   for  Baking    Cake. 

Have  your  oven  ready.  This  is  most 
important.  The  oven  should  be  ready 
to  bake  the  cake  immediately  after  it 
is  well  mixed,  as  standing  makes  cake 
batter   heavy. 

Test  the  temperature  of  the  oven  be- 
fore putting  the  cake  within.  If  you 
can  hold  your  hand  in  the  hottest  part 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  the  temperature 
will  be  correct. 

It  you  have  a  Fahrenheit  thermom- 
eter, let  it  be  your  guide  as  to  the  bak- 
ing heat  of  the  oven — 450  degrees  is  the 
proper  heat  for  drop  cakes,  rolls,  buns, 
tea  cakes,  muffins,  puff  paste,  etc.  If 
you  have  not  a  thermometer  another 
good  test  is  to  throw  a  little  cornmeal 
or  flour  in  the  center  of  the  oven.  It 
the  flour  smokes  before  you  can  count 
ten,  the  oven  is  too  hot.  If  it  smokes 
at  ten,  the  oven  has  the  proper  heat 
for   the   above   cakes. 

As  soon  as  these  are  baked  the  heat 
will  be  reduced  to  400  degrees  Fahren- 
heit, and  then  the  oven  is  ready  to 
bake  cream  puffs,  sugar  cakes,  queen 
cakes,  jumbles,  lady  fingers,  jelly  rolls, 
etc.  When  these  cakes  are  baked  the  heat 
will  be  reduced  to  350  degrees  Fahren- 
heit,   and    the    oven   will   be    just   at    the 


196 


proper  temperature  to  bake  wine  cakea, 
cup  cakes,  ginger  snaps,  gingerbread, 
spice  cakes,  Madeira  cakes,  etc. 

Moderate  the  temperature  slightly,  and 
the  oven  will  be  ready  for  the  baking  ol 
large  cakes,  such  as  pound,  citron,  mar- 
ble, white,  raisin,  currant,  almond,  maca- 
roons, etc.  And,  after  all  these  cakes 
are  baked,  you  will  have  the  proper  tem 
perature  for  wedding  cake,  meringue, 
aniseed  cakes,  etc. 

Thermometers  are  so  cheap  that  it 
will  pay  the  young  housekeeper  to  have 
one  in  the  house,  rather  than  spoil  in- 
gredents  by  not  having  the  oven  at  the 
right    baking    heat. 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  above  that 
cakes  made  with  butter  "will  require 
a  moderate  oven;  cakes  without  butter 
will   require   a   quick   oven. 

In  baking  small  cakes  of  cookies  have 
a   moderately    quick    oven. 

Bake  Molasses  cakes  in  a  moderately 
quick  oven,  and  watch  carefully,  as  they 
burn    easily. 

A  large  cake  will  require  more  tinne 
to  bake  than  a  loaf  of  bread  of  the  same 
size.  From  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours  will  be  sufficient  for  a  pound 
cake. 

To  ascertain  if  the  cake  is  done,  take 
a  stiff  broom  straw  and  run  it  into  the 
center  of  the  cake.  When  it  comes  out, 
feel  with  your  fingers.  If  it  is  clean 
and  dry,  the  cake  is  done.  If  otherwise, 
the  cake  requires  a  little  more  laaking. 
Never  introduce  any  straw  until  you 
think  that  the  cake  is  done. 

A  thick  paper  (brown  paper  is  best) 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  cake  after 
it  begins  to  bake  will  prevent  R  from 
browning  too  much.  If  it  begins  to 
brown  as  soon  as  you  put  it  into  the 
oven,  it  is  an  indication  that  the  oven 
is  too  hot.  Cover  the  cake  with  paper, 
and  cool  the  oven  by  lifting  the  lid 
of  the  stove.  But  this  is  always  risky. 
Have  the  oven  of  the  right  temperature. 

Never  set  anything  else  to  cook  in  the 
oven  while  you  are  baking  a  cake.  The 
cake  will   surely  fall. 

Never  move  a  cake  when  you  have 
once  set  it  in  the  oven  till  the  center 
is  perfectly  firm  and  set.  If  you  do,  it 
will  fall.  If  one  side  seems  to  be  brown- 
ing faster  than  the  other,  have  recourse 
to  the  brown  paper  on  top. 

When  you  set  the  cake  in  the  oven 
shut  the  door  very  gently,  and  be  care- 
ful not  to  jar  the  cake,  or  it  will,  be 
heavy.  Do  not  open  the  door  for  about 
ten  minutes,  and  then  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, and  very  gently.  If  the  cake  Is 
browning  too  quickly,  cover  with  a  layer 
of  thick   paper. 

Watch  the  cake  while  baking,  but  never 
leave  the  oven  door  open.  When  nec- 
essary to  look  at  the  cake,  gently  do  it 
as  quickly  as  possible,  and  then  shut  the 
door  carefully,  without  jarring  the  cake. 

A  cake  should  rise  to  its  full  height 
before  the  crust  begins  to  form.  If  It 
hardens  too  fast,  have  recourse  Im- 
mediately to  covering  with  paper. 

Keep  the  oven  at  a  steady,  regular 
heat,  the  same  at  the  top  as  at  the  bot- 
tom. 

Never  take  the  cake  out  of  the  oven 
until  you  are  sure  it  Is  done.  The  broom 
splint,  clean  and  dry,  run  through  the 
center,   is   an   Infallible   test. 

Let  the  cake  cool  in  the  pan  in  which 
it  was  baked,  as  it  is  apt  to  become 
heavy  if  turned  while  hot.  Never  han- 
dle  the   cake   while   hot. 

If  the  cake  Is  streaky  It  shows  that 
It  was  not  mixed  properly,  or  that  the 
baking  was  rapid  or  unequal,  or  that  the 


oven's    temperature    suddenly    decreased 
before  the  cake  was  done. 

When  the  cake  is  cool,  if  you  wish 
to  ice  it,  proceed  as  follows: 

How   to   Ice  Cakes. 

Take  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar 
and  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Have  the 
eggs  set  in  the  refrigerator  for  about 
an  hour  before  using.  Beat  the  eggs  and 
the  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  rose  or 
orange  flower  water  or  vanilla  essence 
together  till  the  eggs  are  very  light 
In  commencing  to  beat  do  not  beat  the 
whites  separately.  Break  them  into  a 
cold,  shallow  dish,  and  throw  in  a  hand- 
ful of  sugar  at  a  time,  beating  mean- 
while, and  adding  at  short  intervals, 
till  you  have  used  up  all  the  sugar.  Or 
beat  the  whites  and  the  sugar  and 
essence  together.  When  the  mixture  Is 
stiff  and  smooth,  begin  to  lay  a  thin 
coating  of  the  ice  over  the  cake,  using 
a  knife  to  spread  it,  and  occasionally 
dipping  the  knife  into  the  lemon  juice, 
which  will  enable  you  to  smooth  it  nicely 
When  it  is  covered  with  this  first  coat, 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  harden — or  in  a 
moderate  oven,  where  you  may  let  it  re- 
main about  four  minutes,  or  in  the  sun- 
shine where  there  is  no  dust  around. 
When  it  is  hardened  it  will  be  ready  for 
the  next  coat.  Proceed  as  above.  This 
coat  will  be  much  smoother  and  whiter 
than  the  first.  Let  the  thickness  of  the 
icing  always  be  such  that  It  will  run 
very  slow.  If  the  Icing  is  well  prepared 
this  will  give  a  smooth,  glossy  surface. 
Instead  of  the  essence,  the  juice  of  a  lem- 
on (one  tablespoonful)  may  be  added  to 
the  icing.  If  you  wish  to  use  ornaments, 
secure  a  piping  tube,  and  place  the  or- 
naments around  the  cake  while  moist, 
running  a  plain  tube  around  the  edge 
of  the  cake,  and  then  covering  the  cake 
with  a  thin  icing  level  with  the  rim. 
Let  It  run  smooth,  and  dry  in  the  sun 
or  in  the  oven.  The  sun  is  always  best, 
if  you  are  not  in  a  very  great  hurry. 

The  above  recipe  is  for  plain  icing.  It 
may  be  varied  according  to  taste  by 
using  pineapple,  strawberry,  or  other 
flavoring.  In  using  strawberry  icing,  add 
a  few  drops  of  cochineal  to  color.  For 
further  particulars  as  to  different  icings 
for  cakes,  see  special  section  on  "Icing? 
and  Frostings  for  Cakes." 

The    Plcaynne    Cake. 

Gateau    Picayon. 

1    Cup    of   Finely-Sifted    Flour. 

1   Cup   of  Fine  White  Sugar.     Whites  of 

9   Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract 

1  Teasponful     Lemon. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stlU 
froth,  after  which  very  little  beating 
will  be  required.  Add  slowly  a  heaping 
cupful  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  one  cup 
of  flour,  both  of  which  have  been  sifted 
four  times  to  reach  this  measurement 
Then  add  one  teasponful  each  of  vanilla 
and  lemon  extract,  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  Just  before  putting 
Into  the  oven.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes. 

Almond   Cake. 

Gateau   d'Amandes. 

12  Eggs.    1  Pound  of  Sifted  Loaf  Sugar. 

8-4  Pound  of  Sifted  Flour. 
6    Ounces    Sweet    Almonds.      Zest    of   3 
Citrons.    Zest  of  1  Orange.    1-4  Teaspoon- 
ful Salt. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Orange  Flower  Watei. 


197 


Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
whites  separately,  beating  the  latter  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Blanch  the  almonds,  and 
peel  them  and  pound  them  to  a  fine 
flour  in  a  mortar.  Grate  the  zest  of  the 
oranges  and  lemons  or  citrons,  and  mix 
well.  Beat  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  add  one- 
half  of  the  flour,  beating  well.  Then 
add  the  almonds,  mixing  thoroughly,  and, 
after  beating  vigorously,  add  one-half 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Beat  well, 
add  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  and  then 
add  the  remainder  of  the  eggs.  Finally 
add  the  orange  flower  water,  and  mix 
lightly.  Butter  a  paper,  and  put  in  a 
cake  pan,  and  pour  in  the  mixture,  and 
bake   for   one   hour   in   a   moderate    oven. 

Angel  Cake. 

1 1-2   Cups    of    Granulated    Sugar,    Sifted. 

1  Cup   Sifted    Flour.      The    Whites    of   11 

Eggs. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Cream    of    Tartar. 

1  Teaspoonful   Vanilla.     1-4   Teaspoonful 

Salt. 

Sift  the  flour  four  times,  and  then 
put  in  the  cream  of  tartar,  mix  well,  and 
sift  a  fifth  time.  Sift  the  sugar  four 
times.  Have  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  so  stiff  that 
they  may  be  cut  with  a  knife  clearly. 
Then  add  the  flour  by  degrees,  beating 
all  the  time.  Lastly,  add  the  flavoring 
extract.  Do  not  butter  the  pan  for  this 
cake,  but  turn  the  mixture  quickly  into 
an  ungreased  Turk's  head  pan  (a  pan 
with  a  tube  in  the  middle),  and  bake  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Test  with  a  broom  wisp.  When 
done,  turn  the  cake  upside  down,  resting 
on  the  tube  of  the  pan,  and  let  it  cool. 
The  cake  will  fall  out  of  the  pan. 

Angel's  Food. 

Biscuit  d'Ange. 

11-2    Cups    of    Sifted,    Powdered    White 

Sugar. 

1   Cup    Sifted    Flour.      The   Whites    of   11 

Eggs. 

1   Teaspoonful    of    Baking   Powder. 

1   Teaspoonful  Vanilla.     1-4   Teaspoonful 

Salt. 

Put  the  baking  powder  and  the  salt 
(or  use  cream  of  tartar  instead  of  baking 
powder)  into  the  flour,  and  sift  it  seven 
times.  If  you  use  cream  of  tartar,  add 
it  in  the  last  sifting.  Sift  the  sugar  seven 
times.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  very  stiff  froth,  and  add  gradually 
the  sugar,  mixing  very  carefully.  Then 
add  the  flour,  gradually  beating  all  tlie 
while,  and  lastly  add  the  flavoring  ex- 
tract. Pour  the  mixture  into  a  Turk's 
head  baking  pan  (ungreased),  and  bak'3 
for  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Test  with  a  broom  wisp.  When 
done,  turn  the  cake  upside  down,  resting 
the  pan  on  the  tube  till  the  cake  falls 
off. 

Archangel  Cake. 

Gateau   d'Archange  ou  Gateau  de  I'Ange 
Gabriel. 

1  Cup  of  Butter,     2  Cups  of  Sifted  Flour. 
1  Cup  of  White  Pulverized  Sugar. 

The    Whites    of   8    Eggs. 

1   Teaspoonful   of   Lemon  Extract. 

Ir4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Add  the  baking  pSwder  to  the 
flour,  and  sift  it  three  times.  Sift  the 
sugar  three  times.    Beat  the  butter,  which 


has  been  well-washed,  to  a  cream  with 
sugar.  Then  gradually  add  the  flour, 
beating  all  the  while,  and  the  flavoring 
extract.  Lastly,  add  the  whites,  which 
must  be  very  stiff.  Mix  all  thoroughly, 
and  bake  for  about  half  an  hour  m 
a  moderately  quick  oven.  Use  a  Turk's 
head  tin.  (l'''ollow  directions  for  baking 
cake.) 

Banana  Meringue  Cake. 

Gateau  de  Bananes  Meringues. 

9    Eggs.      1    Pound    of    White    Pulverized 

Sugar.       1-2  Pound  Flour. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

3   Bananas.     1   Cup   of   Cream   Sauce. 

Whites   of   3   Eggs. 

Make  a  Sponge  Cake;  slice  in  two 
across  the  cake;  slice  bananas  length- 
wise very  nicely  and  lay  on  the  bottom 
layer  of  cake;  sprinkle  with  a  little  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  then  spread  over  a 
little  Cream  Sauce,  which  you  will  have 
made  to  the  consistency  of  Cream  Puff 
filling.  Put  over  this  the  second  layer  of 
cake,  and  then  repeat  the  process 
of  spreading  the  bananas  and  cream  on 
the  layer.  Make  a  meringue  with  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  spread  this  over 
the  whole.  Set  in  a  quick  oven  and  bak3 
to  a  delicate  brown,  and  serve,  either  hot 
or  cold,  with  a  Wine  Sauce,  preferably 
Sauce  au  Vin  de  Madere.     (See  recipe.) 

Black   Cake. 

Gateau  Noir. 

1    Pound    of   Brown   Sugar.     1   Pound    of 

Butter.      1    Pound    of    Flour.      2    Pounds 

Currants. 

2  Pounds  of  Seeded  Raisins. 

1-2  Pound  of  Citron,     Cut  Very  Thin. 

1-2    Pound    of    Chipped    Figs. 

1     Glass     of    Jelly.  1     Wineglass     of 

Brandy. 

1  Pound  Almonds,     Blanched  and 

Chopped.     12  Eggs. 

1   Teaspoonful    of   Extract   of    Cinnamon. 

1  Teaspoonful    Cloves.      2    Teaspoonfuls 

Nutmeg. 
Wash  and  cleanse  the  currants  thor- 
oughly. Seed  the  raisins.  Beat  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Then  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  lieaten.  Add  one- 
half  of  the  flour  and  the  spices.  Mix 
all  the  fruit  in  the  remaining  flour,  hav- 
ing first  sliced  the  citron  very  thin,  and 
add  to  the  mixture.  Then  add  the  jelly, 
which  should  be  homemade  and  of  the 
best  quality.  Otherwise,  add  one  cup 
of  the  best  Louisiana  molasses.  Mix: 
thoroughly.  Add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  the  brandy  last.  Divide  into  two- 
tins,  which  must  be  lined  with  well- 
greased  paper.  Bake  for  four  hours 
in  a  slow  oven.  Test  with  the  broom 
wisp.  If  not  done  through  cook  longer, 
watching  carefully,  and  using  the  test 
till  the  straw  is   dry. 

Bnttermllk    Cake. 
Gateau    au    Babeurre. 

2  Cups  of  Buttermilk.  3  Cups  of  Sugar. 
B    Cups    of    Flour.      1    Cup    of    Butter.      4 

Eggs.  1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  then 
add  the  sugar,  which  has  been  sifted 
fine.  Beat  to  a  cream.  Add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  continue  beating  till 
very  light.  Mash  the  soda  in  the  butter- 
milk, dissolving  thoroughly,  first  in  a 
half  cupful,  and  then  mixing  well  with 
the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Add  this  to  the 
eggs  and  butter.  Then  gradually  add 
the  sifted  flour,  and  beat  till  very  smooth. 


198 


Lastly  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  for  forty-five  min- 
utes   in    a    moderate    oven. 

Bride's  Cake. 

Gateau    de    Marie. 

3    Cups    of    "White    Pulverized    Sugar. 

1  Cup  of  Butter.     4  Cups  of  Sifter  Flour, 

1-2  Cup   of  Cornstarch. 

The    Whites    of    12    Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls   or  Baking  Powder. 

1    Cup    of    Sweet    Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Extract  of  Lemon. 
Beat  the  whites   of  the   eggs  to   a  stifi 

froth.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  pow- 
der. Sift  the  sugar.  Beat  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  till  very 
light.  Mix  the  cornstarch  with  the  sweet 
milk  and  add  to  the  sugar  and  butter, 
beating  well.  Then  add  gradually  the 
flour,  mixing  thoroughly,  and  beating 
light.  Add  the  extract  of  lemon,  and 
finally  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  using  the  broom  wisp  test. 
If  not  done,  bake  a  little  longer. 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake. 

Gateau    au    Chocolat. 

1    Cup    of    Sugar.      1    Tablespoonful    of 

Butter.      1 1-2    Cups    of    Sifted    Flour. 

3-4   Cup   of   Milk.       Yolks   of  8   Eggs. 

■White    of    1    Egg. 

1-4   Cake    of    Grated    Chocolate. 

2  Teaspoonfuls   of  Baking  Powder. 
Dissolve    the    chocolate    in    the    cup    of 

milk,  and  boil  till  thick.  Beat  the  butter 
to  a  cream,  and  gradually  add  the  sugar, 
beating  constantly.  Then  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  and  beat  till  very  light. 
Sift  the  flour,  and  add  the  baking  pow- 
der, and  sift  again.  Then  add  the  flour 
gradually  to  the  mixture,  beating  all  the 
while.  Now  add  the  chocolate,  and  beat 
very  vigorously.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eg:gs  to  a  stiff  froth,  xna  add  to  the 
mixture.  Then  add  the  essence,  beating 
lightly  again,  and  turn  into  a  greased 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  or  an  hour. 

Chocolate  Cake  a  la  Creole. 

Gateau   au    Chocolat  a   la  Creole. 

13-4  Cups  of  Flour.  11-2  Cups  of  Sugar. 

1-2    Cup    of   Butter.  4   Eggs. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Grated  Chocolate,  or 

2  Ounces. 
1-2  Cup  of  Milk.  1  Teaspoonful  of  Va- 
nilla. 1  Heaping  Teaspoonful  of  Baking 
Powder. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  grad- 
ually add  the  sugar,  beating  constantly. 
When  very  light,  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  beat  till  these  are  very  light. 
Then  add  the  milk  and  the  chocolate, 
which  you  will  have  dissolved  in  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  add  by  degrees  the  flour, 
beating  all  the  while.  Give  a  very  vig- 
orous beating  and  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  them 
very  carefully  into  the  batter,  and  add 
the  vanilla,  and  finally  the  bakins  pow- 
der. Mix  all  very  quickly  and  lightly, 
and  set  to  bake  in  buttered  pans  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  three-quarters  of 
an    hour. 

Citron    Cake. 

Gateau    au   Cedrat. 

1   Quart   of   Flour.     1   Cup   of  Butter. 

2  Cups   of   Sugar.     12  Eggs. 

1    Cup    of    Cream.  1    Glass    of    Wine. 

1    Cup    of    Chopped    Citron. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Almond  Extract. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
sugar,  and  beat  till  very  light.  Then 
add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  till 
very  light.  Add  the  cream,  and  mix 
thoroughly,  and  then  add  by  degrees  the 
citron,  mixing  thoroughly.  Now,  by  de- 
grees, add  the  flour,  well-sifted.  Beat 
well.  Then  add  the  wine,  and  lastly  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Mix  all  quickly  and  lightly;  add 
the  almond  extract,  mix  lightly,  and  then 
set  to  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  one  hour. 

Cocoanat   Loaf    Cake. 

Gateau    au    Coco. 

1-4    Pound     of     Butter.     2     Cups    Grated 

Cocoanut. 

5  Eggs.         1  Cup  of  Milk. 

1-2   Cup   Butter.   1-2   Pound  of   Flour. 

2    Teaspoonfuls    of    Baking    fowder. 

The  Juice  and   Grated  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  rich 
cream.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
beat  till  very  light.  Then  add  the  milk, 
and  the  flour  by  degrees,  beating  all  the 
while,  and  then  add  the  lemon.  Beat 
well.  Add  the  cocoanut,  and  stir  in 
carefully  and  well.  Sift  the  baking  pow- 
der over  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which 
you  will  have  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  add  these,  beating  lightly  and  thor- 
oughly. Have  ready  two  loaf  pans,  and 
line  them  with  very  thin  buttered  paper. 
Now  divide  the  batter  into  two  even 
parts,  filling  each  pan  about  three-quar- 
ters full.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
bake  for  forty-five  minutes.  When  done, 
cover  the  top  with  finely-grated  cocoa- 
nut,  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it. 
Set  it  to   cool. 

CloTe  Cake. 

Gateau  de  Girofles. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cloves. 
1  Cup   of  Sugar.     1  Cup  of  Sour  Cream. 

1    Egg.      1-2    Cup    of    Flour. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda.      A  Pinch  of  Salt 

Beat  the  sugar  and  the  yolk  of  the 
egg  to  a  cream.  Add  the  cream  and 
soda  blended.  Mix  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  cloves,  and  mix  well.  Sift  the 
flour  and  salt  together,  and  add  grao- 
ually,  beating  all  the  while.  Give  several 
vigorous  beats,  and  set  to  bake  in  a 
buttered  tin  in  a  moderate  oven  Cor 
forty-five  minutes. 

Coffee   Cake. 

Gateau    de    Cafe. 

1     Cup     of     Cafe     Noir     (Black    Coffee). 

4  Eggs.  4  Cups  of  Flour. 
1    Cup    of    Butter.      1    Cup    of    Molasses. 
1  Cup  of  Sugar.    1  Cup  of  Seeded  Rilsins. 
1    Cup    of    Currants,    "Washed   and   Dried. 

1    Grated   Nutmeg. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Ground    Cinnamon. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Cloves. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Soda,    Dissolved    in 

^Varm    M'ater. 

Wash  and  cream  the  butter.  Add  the 
sugar  and  beat  till  very  light.  Then 
add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Beat  them 
into  the  butter  and  sugar  till  very  light 
Add  the  molasses,  and  mix  thoroughly 
Then  take  the  seeded  currants  and  raisins 
and  blend  them  with  one-halt  of  the 
flour  and  add  gradually.  Now,  add  by 
degrees  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  beat- 
ing vigorously.  Then  add  the  coffee, 
and  mix  well.  Add  the  soda,  dissolved 
in  hot  water.  Add  the  spices,  mix  well, 
and  finally  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to   a  stiff  froth.     Mix  thoroughlT 


199 


.but  Ughtly,  divide  into  two  parts,  set  in 
two  greased  paper-lined  tins,  and  balce 
from  forty-five  minutes  to  one  liour  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Caramel  Cake. 

Gateau  tfu  Caramel. 

1   Cup    of    Butter.  2    Cups    of    Sugar. 

1    Cup    of    Milk.      11-2    Cups    of    Flour, 

Sifted. 

1    Cup    of    Cornstarcli. 

Whites    of    7    figgs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and 
beat  till  very  light.  Then  add  the  milk. 
Mix  well.  Sift  the  flour,  cornstarch 
and  baking  powder  together,  and  add 
gradually  to  the  mixture,  beating  vig- 
orously all  the  while.  Then  add  the 
Vanilla  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  all  quickly 
and  lightly,  turn  into  a  long  family 
pan,  and  bake  for  about  half  an  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Apply  the  broom 
wisp  test.  "When  done,  take  out  of 
the  oven  and  set  to  cool.  When  cool, 
take 

2  Cups    of    Brown    Sugar. 

1    Cup    Sweet    Cream.      2    Teaspoonfuls 
Vanilla. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Boil  all  together  until  it  sugars  and 
spread  over  the  top  and  sides. 

Or,  if  you  wish  something  much  nicer, 
make   the   following   mixture; 
1-2     Pound     brown     suger.       1-2    "Pound 
Chocolate.     1-2  Cup  Milk,     1  Tablespoon- 
ful Butter.     2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Vanilla. 

Grate  the  chocolate,  and  set  all  to 
boiling  together  until  thick  enough  to 
spread  over  the  top  and  sides  of  the 
cake. 

Gup  Cake. 

Gateau    Savoie. 

1  Cup  of  Butter.      2  Cups  of  Sugar. 

3  Cups  of  Flour.     4  Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls   of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  or  Rose  Extract. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually,  beating  all  the  while. 
Then  beat  the  yolks  until  they  are  very 
light,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Add  the 
milk.  Mix  well,  and  add  half  of  the  flour, 
which  you  will  have  sifted  with  the  bak- 
ing powder.  Then  add  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  the  remainder 
of  the  flour,  and  the  extract  of  Lemon 
or  Rose.  Finally  add  the  baking  powder, 
mix  quicqly  and  lightly,  turn  into  a 
Turk's  head  pan,  which  you  will  have 
lined  withgreased  paper,  and  bake  for 
forty-five    minutes    in    a   moderate    oven. 

One,    Two,     Three,     Four     Cup     Cake. 

Un,    Deux,    Trois,    Quatre. 

1  Cup  of  Butter.     2  Cups  of  Sugar. 
3  Cups  of  Flour.     4  Eggs. 

Beat  the  Butter  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
sugar.  Beat  till  very  light.  Beat  the 
eggs  (yolks  and  whites  together)  till 
very  light,  and  add  them  gradually  to 
the  butter  and  the  sugar,  beating  all  the 
while.  Beat  vigorously.  Add  the  sifted 
flour,  and  beat  thoroughly  until  very 
light.  Then  line  a  round  cake  pan  with 
the  buttered  paper,  and  fill  with  the  mix- 


ture.    Set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and   bake 
for  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Cake    Without    Mgga. 

Gateau    Sans    Oeufs. 

2  Cups   of   Sifted   Flour.     1   Cup   of   Milk. 
1 1-2  Cups  of  Sugar.    2  Tablespoonful.^ 

Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful   Baking   Powder. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Extract. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  the  butter  to  a 
cream,  and  then  add  the  milk,  stirring 
carefully.  Add  the  flour,  and  beat  well 
and  hard.  Then  add  the  salt,  flavoring 
extract  and  baking  powder.  Mix  all 
thoroughly,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  a  half  hour. 

Delicate    Cake. 

Delicatesse. 

11-2  Cups  of  Flour.    11-2  Cups  of  Sugar. 
1-2    Cup    of    Cornstarch,    Sifted    With 

the  Flour. 

1-2  Cup  of  Butter.     1-2  Cup  of  Milk. 

Whites  of  6  Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  Baking  Powder. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Extract    of    Lemon. 
1-4  Teaspoonful  Salt. 

Cream  the  butter  and  beat  it  and  the 
sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  milk,  and  stir 
carefully.  Then  add  gradually  the  flour, 
into  which  has  been  sifted  the  salt  and 
the  cornstarch,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  flavoring  extract,  and,  lastly,  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Sift  the  baking  powder  over  the 
whites.  Mix  quickly  and  lightly  with  the 
batter,  and  bake  forty-five  minutes  m  a 
moderate  oven. 

Dried  Fruit   Cake. 

Gateau  de  Fruits  Sees. 

3  Cups  of  Dried  Apples,  Peaches  or  Any 

Kind  of  Dried  Fruit. 

2  Cups  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 

1     Cup     of    Milk.    2    Eggs.     3-4    Cup     of 

Butter. 

1   Cup    of   Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cinnamon. 

1-2   Teaspoonful  Each   of   Ground  Clove3 

and  Mace. 

1-2  Pound  of  Stoned  Raisins. 

1-2  Grated  Nutmeg.     1-4  Teaspoonful  bar. 

The  Juice  of  a  Lemon. 

11-2  Teaspoonfuls   of  Baking  Powder   or 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

Soak  the  fruit  over  night.  Then  chop 
very  fine,  and  simmer  in  a  saucepan  witn 
the  molasses  for  two  hours  and  a  hair. 
Let  it  cool.  Seed  the  raisins.  Beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  until  very 
light.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 
blat  till  light.  Now  add  the  mUk  an'^ 
then  the  fruit  and  molasses,  stirring  care- 
fully. Beat  hard  for  five  minutes.  Now 
add  the  flour,  which  you  will  have  sifted 
with  the  baking  powder  and  l>eat  vig- 
orously for  five  minutes.  If  you  use  soda, 
dissolve  it  at  this  point  into  a  taWes^ocm. 
ful  of  boiling  water,  and  add,  mixing 
well.  Then  add  the  raisms,  and  beat 
vigorously,  and  the  spices  and  salt.  Adl 
thi  Juice  of  the  lemon,  and  finally  thj 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  The  batter  must  be  stiff,  but  of 
sufficient  elasticity  to  drop  from  thn 
spoon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ror  twi 
hours.  Use  the  broom  wisp  test,  if  It 
comes  out  clean  and  dry,  then  the  cake 
is  done. 


200 


Fig    Cake. 

Gateau  de  Figues. 

1  Cup  Butter.     2  Cups  Sugar.    1  Cup  Milk. 
3  Cups  of  Seeded  Raisins. 
1  Pound  of  Pigs,  Chopped  Very  Fine. 
1   Egg.     2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baiting  Pow- 
der. 
3  Cups   of  Flour. 
1-4    Teaspoonful    of    Salt.     1-4    Grated 
Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  and  add  the 
sugar.  Then  beat  very  light,  and  add  the 
egg.  Beat  well  and  add  the  milk;  care- 
fully and  gradually  add  the  flour,  into 
which  you  have  sifted  the  baking  pow- 
der. Add  the  raisins  and  the  figs,  and 
beat  thoroughly;  add  the  grated  nutmeg, 
and  bake  for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Bake  slowly,  and  use  the  broom  wigp 
test.  If  not  done,  bake  longer,  till  the 
straw  co'mes  out  clean  and  dry. 

Fruit   Cake. 

Gateau  de  Fruits. 

1-2  Pound  of  Grated  Lemon  and  Orani;e 
Peel  Mixed. 
3-4  Pound  of  Raisins. 
1-4  Pound  of  Preserved  Cherries. 
3-4  Pound  of  Sultanas. 
1-4  Pound  of  Preserved   Figs. 
1-4   Pound   of   Citron. 
1-4  Pound  of  Preserved  Apricots. 
1-2  Pound  of  Sifted  Flour. 
1-4   Pound   of  Preserved   Pineapple. 
1-2  Pound  of  Butter. 
1-4   Pound    of   Mashed   Almonds. 
1   Grated   Nutmeg. 
1-2  Pound  of  White  Pulverized  Sugar. 
1-4  Tablespoonful  of  Mace. 
8   Eggs.     1-4   Tablespoonful    Ground   Cin- 
namon. 
The  Juice  of  1  Orange. 
1-8  Tablespoonful  of  Cloves. 
The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
1-8  Tablespoonful  Ground  Allspice. 
2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1   Wineglassful    of  Good  Brandy. 

1    Wineglassful    of    Sherry    Wine    or 

Jamaica  Rum. 

Prepare  the  fruit  first.  Stone  the 
raisins,  picking  carefully.  Pick  over  the 
Sultanas  carefully,  and  wash  them  well. 
Then  cut  the  orange  and  lemon  zest  very 
fine,  almost  grating.  Cut  the  citron  very, 
very  fine.  Cut  all  the  remaining  fruit 
into  quarter-inch  dice,  or  very,  very 
small  pieces.  Tou  may  use  the  candied 
fruit,  but  the  preserved  is  recommended 
as  better  and  lighter  and  more  digestible. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  rich  cream,  and  then 
add  the  sugar,  and  beat  all  till  very,  very 
light.  Beat  the  yolks  and  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  together  till  very,  very  light,  and 
then  add  them  to  the  sugar  and  butter, 
and  then  beat  again  very,  very  light. 
Sift  the  salt  and  baking  powder  and  flour 
together,  and  gradually  add  it  to  the  mix- 
ture, beating  very  vigorously  till  light. 
Then  mix  all  the  fruit  together,  dredging 
with  flour,  so  as  to  keep  them  apart, 
and  then  add  the  spices  to  the  batter. 
Mix  well,  and  add  the  fruit.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  then  add  the  Brandy  or  Rum 
Beat  all  together  well  once  more,  and 
then  line  a  cake  pan  with  buttered  paper, 
and  turn  the  mixture  Into  it,  and  ibak4 
In  a  very  slow,  steady  oven  for  four  and 
a  half  hours.  Use  tile  broom  wisp  tesa. 
When  it  comes  out  clean  and  dry  tha 
cake  is  done.  Then  let  it  stand  over 
night  in  the  pan  to  cool.  In  the  morn- 
ing take  It  out  and  remove  the  paper. 
Take  one  pint  of  the  best  French  Brandy, 
and  one  pint  of  the  best  Champagne,  and 
one    gill    of   orange,   raspberry   or   straw- 


berry syrup,  mixed  with  the  wine.  Set 
the  cake  in  a  stone  pot  of  sufficient  size, 
and  pour  the  mixture  over  it.  Then  set 
the  cake  in  a  cool  place  and  cover  the 
top  of  the  jar  airtight  with  a  piece  of 
thin  linen,  and  set  the  cover  on  top.  Let 
the  cake  stand  for  three  weeks.  At  the 
end  of  that  time  remove  tie  cover  and 
paper,  and  turn  the  cake,  and  let  it  stand 
for  three  weeks  longer. 

Plain    Fruit   Cake. 

Gateau  de  Fruits. 

1  Pound    of   Brown    Sugar.    1   Pound   of 

Butter. 
10  Eggs.     2  Pounds  of  Seeded  Raisins. 

2  Pounds  of  Currants.    1  Pound  of  Citron. 

1-4  Pound  of  Almonds.    1  Nutmeg. 
1   Teaspoonful   Each   of   Ground   Allspice 

and  Cinnamon. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    Each    of    Ground    Mace 

and    Cloves. 

1-2  Pound  of  Sifted  Flour. 

The  Zest  Each  of  an  Orange  and  Lemon. 

1-4   Teaspoonful   of   Salt. 

The  Juice  of  1  Orange  and  1  Lemon. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1   Wineglassful  of  Good  French  Brandy. 

1    Wineglassful    of    Sherry    Wine    or 
Jamaica  Rum. 

Prepare  the  fruit  by  seeding  the  raisins, 
washing  and  drying  the  currants,  cutting 
the  citron  into  shreds  and  dice,  and  mash- 
ing the  almonds.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream  a-nd  add  the  eggs,  which 
you  will  first  beat,  without  separating 
whites  and  yolks,  till  very  light.  Beat 
these  into  the  sugUr  and  butter  till  very 
light,  and  then  add  the  flour  gradually, 
and  the  spices.  Sift  the  flour  with  the 
baking  powder  and  salt,  and  then  mix  the 
fruit  into  it  before  adding  to  the  cake. 
Beat  vigorously.  Then  add  the  grated 
zest  of  the  orange  and  lemon,  and  the 
juices  of  both.  Slir  well  and  add  the 
Brandy  and  Wine  or  Rum.  Mix  well. 
Divide  the  batter  into  two  pans,  which 
you  will  have  lined  with  greased  paper, 
and  bake  in  a  steadily  moderate  oven  for 
four  hours.  Use  the  brocon  wisp  test,  and 
if  it  comes  out  clean  and  dry  the  cake  is 
done.  If  not,  let  the  cake  bake  from  a 
quarter  to  a  half  hour  longer,  watching 
carefully.  This  will  make  a  nine-pound 
cake,  or  two  four-and-a-half-pound  cakei. 
When  done,  put  the  cake  into  an  earthen- 
ware bowl,  with  a  flat  bottom.  Pour 
over  a  pint  of  the  best  Brandy  and  half 
a  pint  of  Sherry  wine.  Make  the  vessel 
airtight  by  tying  around  a  linen  cloth, 
and  put  on  the  cover.  Set  the  cake  away 
for  about  three  weeks,  and  then  open  anl 
turn.  Let  it  remain  three  weeks  longer, 
and  the  cake  is  ready  to  cut.  If  you  wish 
to  use  it  sooner,  do  not  add  the  liquor 
after  baking,  but  set  the  cake  away  tJ 
cool  in  the  pan  in  which  it  was  baked 
Then  place  in  a  cool  place  after  taking 
out  and  removing  the  paper,  and  wait 
eight  days  before  cutting. 

Ginger   Cake. 
Gateau  au  Gingembre. 

3  Cups  of  Flour.       2  Eggs. 

1-2   Cup  of  Milk   or  Sour  Cream. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda  or  Baking  Powder. 

1-2  Cup  of  Butter  or  Lard. 
I  Tablespoonful   of  Ground  Ginger,  or  1 
Tablespoonful    Each    of   Ground  Cin- 
namon and  Ginger. 
1 1-2  Cups  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  cream 
and  then  add  the  melted  butter,  beating 
till    very    light     Sift    the   baking   powder 
and  the  flour  together,  and  add  the  gin- 
ger, mixing  well;   then  add  the  milk  and 
the  molasses  to  the  butter  and  eggs,  mix- 


201 


Ing  thoroughly.  When  well  blended,  add 
the  flour  and  gingrer.and  baking  powder 
(mixed),  and  beat  vigorously.  Finally 
add  the  whites  of  the  aggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  turn  Into  a  well-greased  tin, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty- 
five  minutes.  Use  the  broom  wisp  test 
before  taking  the  cake  out  of  the  oven. 

Ginger  Bread, 

Pain  d'Bpioes. 

1-2  Pound  of  Butter.     1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 

3   Pints   of   Flour. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Ground  Ginger. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cinnamon. 

1  Pint  of  Sweet  Milk  or  Sour  Cream. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda  or  Baking  Powder. 

i   Pint   of   Louisiana   Molasses. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  then 
add  the  sugar.  Beat  till  very  light,  and 
then  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  till  creamy 
and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat 
very  light.  Now  add  the  molasses  an! 
stir  well,  mixing  thoroughly;  then  add 
the  milk  and  mix  well  into  the  flour, 
with  which  you  will  have  sifted  the  bak- 
ing powder,  and  beat  till  very  smoota. 
Then  add  the  ground  ginger  and  cinna- 
mon; mix  well;  and  finally  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth: 
mix  well  and  pour  into  two  well-greased, 
shallow  tins.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  forty  minutes,  using  the  broom  wisp 
test  before  taking  out  of  the  oven.  Sprin- 
kle with  white  sugar  and  serve,  either  hot 
or  cold.  If  soda  is  used,  dissolve  it  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  and  add 
to  the  molasses;  then  add  to  the  butter 
and  sugar  before  adding  the  flour  anil 
milk.  Some  beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
together;  but  the  bread  is  much  lighter 
and  more  delicate  when  the  whites  and 
yolks  are  beaten   separately. 

Stage    Flanks,    or    Gingerbread    Withont 

Butter    or    Eggs. 

Estomac    Mulatre. 

1  Cup  of  Molasses.    1  Cup  of  S'our  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Ground  Ginger. 

1  Gill  of  Lard.     3  Cups  of  Flour. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Soda. 

Melt  the  molasses,  lard  and  ginger  to  ■ 

gether  and  blend  well.     "When  thoroughly 

melted  and   warmed,   beat   for  about  ten 

minutes.    Then    dissolve    the    soda    in    a 

tablespoonful    of   boiling   water    and    add 

to  the  molasses;   mix   it  thoroughly,  and 

then  add  the  flour,  using  good  judgment 

and  adding  just  enough  of  the  three  cups 

of   sifted    flour    to    make    a    stiff    batter; 

beat    thoroughly    and    vigorously.     Have 

ready  several  greased,  shallow  nans;  pour 

the  mixture  into  them  and  bake   for  ten 

minutes  in  a   quick   oven. 

French-Creole  Cake. 

Gateau    Francais-Creole. 

1  Pound  of  Sifted  Sugar   (White  Pulver- 
ized). 
The  Grated  Peel  of  1  Lemon. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 
12  Eggs.    1-2  Pound   of  Sifted   Flour. 
1-2  Pound  of  Mashed  Rice  (Dried). 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 
4  Ounces  Sweet  Almonds. 
1    Ounce    of   Bitter   Almonds. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff- 
froth,  after  having  blanched  and  peeled 
the  almonds  and  pounded  them  to  a  fine 
powder  in  a  mortar.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  gradually  add 
the  rice,  which  has  been  well  mashel. 
Mix  the  almonds  thorO'Ughly  with  the 
flour;  then  add  these  gradually  to  thj 
sugar,  beating  vigorously.    Add  the  grat- 


ed zest  of  the  lemon  and  the  essence, 
and  finally  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  mix  lightly  and  quickly.  Butter  a 
paper  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
the  pan,  and  bake  the  cake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  one  hour. 

Fruit    Gingerbread. 

Pain  d'Epices  aux  Fruits. 

1  Pound  of  Flour.     1-2  Pound   of  Butter. 
1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1  Cup  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 
1-2  Pound   of  Raisins. 
1-2     Pound     of     Currants,     Washed     and 
Dried. 
1-2  Cup   of  Sour  Ci-eam.     3  Eggs. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda  or  Baking  Powder 
(Level). 
1  Teaspo'onful  of  Ground  Ginger. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  Each   of  Ground  Cinna- 
mon  and   Cloves. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
and  warm  the  molasses  and  beat  with  the 
sugar    and    butter.     Then    add    the    well- 
beaten   yolks   of   the   eggs,    and   the   milk 
and  spices  and  ginger,  mixing  thorough- 
ly.   Add  the   soda,   dissolved   in   a   table- 
spoonful of  boiling  water;   mix  well,  and 
mix  the  seeded  raisins  and  currants  well; 
then    add    the    flour   by    degrees,    beatins 
vigorously.     Finally    add    the    whites    of 
the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat 
thoroughly.     Put    in    two    shallow    pans 
in    the    oven    for   about   two    hours.     Tho 
broom    wisp    test    must    be    used    before 
taking  the  cake  out  of  the  oven.     Sugar 
ginger  loaf  is  made  in  the  same  manner, 
simply    omitting    the    fruits    and    spioad 
ginger    loaf    and    adding    a    teaspoonful 
each    of   ground    cloves,    mace,    cinnamon 
and  allspice  to  the  ginger. 

Gold  Cake. 

Gateau   d'Orr. 

1 1-2  Cups   of  Sugar.    1  Cup  of  Milk. 

1-2  Cup  of  Butter. 

3   Cups   of  Flour.     The   Talks  of  6   Bggi?. 

2   Teaspoonfuls   of   Baking  Powder. 

Beat   the    butter   to    a    cream;    add    tha 

sugar  and  beat  till  very  light.     Then  add 

the  well-beaten   yolks   of  the   eggs;    beat 

vigorously   till   light,    and    gradually   add 

the  flour,  into  which  you  will  have  sifted 

the   baking  powder.     Bake   for   forty-five 

minutes    in    a    moderate    oven.    Save   the 

whites  of  the  eggs  for  Silver  Cake. 

Silver  Cake. 

Gateau   Argente. 

1-2  Cup-  of  Butter.     1 1-2  Cups   of  Sugar. 

1  (5up  of  Milk.    3  Cups  of  Flour. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

The  Whites  of  6  Eggs. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  then  add 
the  well-beaten  sugar  and  beat  well;  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  beat  till  very 
light.  Then  add  the  milk  and  mix  care- 
fully. Now  sift  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  together,  and  add  gradually  to 
the  mixture.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty- 
five  minutes. 

Honey  Cake. 

Gateau    de    Miel. 

1   Teaspoonful   of  Honey. 

1   Teaspoonful    of   Sugar. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Melted    Butter. 

1   Pint   of  Flour.     2  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Carraway  Seeds. 

This  is  a  very  popular  Creole  cake. 
Take  one  teacupful  each  of  honey  and 
sugar,  and  mix  well.  Add  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  melted  butter  and  the  yolks 


202 


of  two  well-beaten  eggs;  sift  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  into  a  pint  af 
flour  and  add.  Beat  all  together  till 
very  light,  and  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Finally, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  carraway  seed,  if 
desired,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
froon  half  an  hour  to  three-quarters  of 
an  hour. 

Imperial  Cake. 

Gateau   Imperial. 

1    Pound    of    Butter.     1   Pound    of   S'ugar. 

1  Pound  of  Flour. 

The  Juice  and  Rind  of  1   Lemon. 

1  Pound  of  Blanched  Almonds. 

1-2  Pound  of  Citron. 

1-2    Pound    of    Raisins.     9    Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

Blanch  and  peel  and  pound  the  al- 
monds in  a  mortar.  Seed  the  raisins, 
and  cut  the  citron  into  shreds  and  quar- 
ter-inch dice,  very  fine.  Grate  the  zest 
of  the  lemon.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream. 
Add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  till 
very  light.  Then  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  cream.  Beat  till  very 
light,  and  mix  the  sifted  flour  and  bak- 
ing powder  with  the  almonds,  and  add 
them  gradually  to  the  mixture,  beating 
i^igorously.  Add  the  raisins,  dredging 
with  flour,  and  the  citron.  Mix  well. 
Add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  finally 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  thick 
froth.  Turn  into  a  buttered  tin,  and 
bake  for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oveu. 
Use  the  broom-wisp  test  before  taking 
out    of    the    oven. 


Indian  Found  Cake. 

Gateau  I'lndienne. 
1-2  Cup  of  Flour.     1  Cup  oi  Indian  Meal. 
1-2  Pound  of  Butter. 
1-2  Pound  Sugar.    8  Eggs.    1   Grated 
Nutmeg. 
1    Teaspoonful    of   Cinnamon.     ' 
1-2    Glass    of   Sherry    Wine    and    Brandy, 
Mixed. 
Stir  the   butter  and  sugar  to   a  cream, 
and    add    the    well-beaten    yolks    of    the 
eggs.     Beat  till  very  light,  and  then  add 
the   meal   and   flour,   well    blended.     Beat 
light.    Add    the    spices    and    liquor,    and 
finally  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.     Beat  thoroughly,  but  light- 
ly,   and    turn    into    a    buttered    tin,    and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour  and 
a  half. 

Lady  Cake  (White). 

Gateau  Blanc  a  la  Dame. 
1 1-2  Cups  of  Flour.     1  Cup  of  Sugar 
„  1-2  Cup  of  Butter. 

The  Whites  of  4  Eggs.     1-2  Cup  of  Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Peach  Extract. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  eggs,  beating 
the   whites   to    a   stiff   froth,    and   mixing 
well.    Add   the   milk,   and   gradually  add 
the  flour,  blending  thoroughly,  and  beat- 
ing till  very  light.    Add  the  essence,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 
I-Dnch   Cake. 
Gateau  du  Gouter. 
4  Cups  of  Sugar.     3  Cups  of  Flour. 
1-2   Cup   of  Milk.     2   Eggs 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Peach  Extract. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  to  a  cream, 
fj"',,^'''^  "'^  ™'"^-  Then  add  gradually 
the  flour,  into  which  you  will  have  siftfd 
the  baking  powder.  Add  one  tablespoon- 
ful    of    Peach    Extract,    and    bake    In    a 


moderate    oven   for   three-quarters   of   an 
hour. 

Madame  John's   Cake. 

Gateau  de  Mme  Jean. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar.     7  Ounces  Butter 
The    Whites    of    16   Eggs,    Whipped   to   a 

Stiff  Froth. 
1  Pound  Sifted  Flour.  Juice  of  1  Orange. 
Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together 
till  very  light.  Then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  snow,  after 
which  stir  in  gradually  the  flour  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  the  juice  of  one  orange,  or  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  Orange  Extract,  and 
Dake  for  from  thirty  to  forty-five  mii- 
utes  in  a  quick  oven.  Use  the  broom- 
wisp  test. 

Marble  Cake. 

Gateau    Marbre. 


The  white  part: 

1-2  Cup  of  Butter.     1-2  Cup  of  Milk. 

1 1-2    Cups    of    TVhite    Pulverized    Suga.-. 

2  1-2  Cups  of  Flour.     The  Whites  of  4 

Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Extract  of  Lemon. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  grad- 
ually add  the  sugar,  beaten  thoroughly 
till  very  light.  Then  add  the  milk,  ani 
stir  carefully.  Add  one-half  of  the  flour, 
evenly  divided.  Beat  vigorously,  ani 
add  the  Lemon  Extract.  Mix  well,  ani 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
thick  froth,  and  the  remainder  of  the 
flour.  Then  stand  this  mixture  to  one 
side  while  you  make  the  dark  part  of 
the  cake. 

Dark  part: 

1-4    Cup    of     Butter.     1    Cup    of    Brown 

Sugar. 

The  Tolks  of  4  Eggs. 

1-2  Cup  of  Milk.     1 1-2  Cups  of  Flour. 

2  Ounces  of  Melted  Chocolate. 

1  Teaspoonful  Vanilla. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Cloves   (if  Desired). 

1  Teaspoonful  Baking  Powder. 
Beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar  to  a 
cream,  till  very  light,  and  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  till 
very  light.  Add  the  milk,  and  stir  care- 
fully. Then  add  the  flour,  and  blend 
and  beat  till  smooth.  Dissolve  the  choco- 
late in  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  add.  mix- 
ing well,  and  then  add  the  vanilla  es- 
sence and  the  baking  powder  to  the  mix- 
ture. Add  the  baking  powder  now  to  the 
first  mixture,  and  mix  thoroughly  and 
lightly.  Then  grease  a  piece  of  brown 
paper,  and  line  the  cake  pan,  and  put  In 
first  a  spoonful  of  the  white  mixture 
and  then  one  of  the  dark,  and  continue 
alternating  thus  till  all  is  used.  Set  In 
a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Try  the  broom- 
straw  test,  and  if  it  comes  out  clean  and 
dry  the  cake  is  done.  If  not,  bake  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  longer.  The  cake 
must  cool  in  the  pan  in  which  it  was 
baked.  "When  cut  you  will  have  a  beau- 
tifully marbled  cake. 

Chocolate    Marble    Cake. 

Gateau   Marbre   au   Chocolat. 

•  The  Whites  of  6  Eggs.    1  Cup  of  Butter. 

2  Cups  of  Sugar.     3  Cups  of  Flour. 

1-2  Cup  of  S-weet  Milk. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 
1-2  Cake  of  Grated  Chocolate. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
and    then    add   the   milk.    Sift   the   flour 


203 


and  baking  powder  together,  and  stir  into 
the  cake  gradually.  Then  add  the  vanilla 
essence  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  heat- 
en  to  a  stiff  froth.  Divide  the  cake  ut- 
ter in  two,  and  mix  the  grated  chocolate 
into  one  half.  Then  put  a  dark  layer  of 
cake  in  the  pan,  then  a  light,  and  con- 
tinue so  alternating  until  all  the  hatter 
is  used.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Motley   Cake. 

Gateau   Mele. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar.    1-2  Pound  of  Butter. 

3  Cups  of  Flour.    12  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Peach  Extract. 

1  Teaspoonful   of   Fruit   Coloring. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream 
and  then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  ot 
the  eggs.  Beat  until  very  light.  Then 
add  gradually  the  flour,  into  which  yoii 
will  have '  sifted,  in  the  second  sifting, 
the  baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly  ana 
beat  vigorously.  Then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Now 
divide  the  batter  into  two  parts,  and  put 
one  spoonful  of  Peach  Extract  into  ona, 
and  one  spoonful  of  fruit  coloring  into 
the  other.  Mix  well,  and  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls into  the  buttered  cake  pan,  first  a 
spoonful  of  the  white,  and  then  one  of 
the  pink,  until  all  the  batter  is  used  up 
Bake  from  forty-five  minutes  to  one  hoar 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Molasses    Cake. 

Gateau   a  la  Melasse. 

2  Cups  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 

1  Cup  of  Boiling  Milk  or  "Water. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder  or  Soda. 

31-2   Cups   of   Flour    (Sifted). 

4  Eggs.    1  Cup  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Ground  Ginger. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Cloves. 

Melt  the  butter.  Dissolve  the  soda  In 
the  boiling  water,  using  about  one  tabla 
spoonful,  and  add  it  to  the  molasses. 
Then  beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a 
cream,  until  very  light,  and  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Add  these 
to  the  molasses,  and  then  stir  in  the  cream. 
Beat  till  smooth,  and  then  add  grtid- 
ually  the  flour,  beating  .till  very  light  and 
smooth.  Now  add  the  ginger  and  cloves, 
or  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
J.  lace  in  a  shallow  cake  pan,  buttered, 
and  bake  'in  a  moderate  oven  from  thirty 
to   forty-five  minutes. 

A   Plain    Molasses    Cake. 

Gateau  -a.  la  Melasse. 

1  Cup  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 

3  Cups  of  Flour.     1  Cup  of  Boiling  Watei-. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Butter. 
1    Tablespoonful    Ginger. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  boiling  water,  and 
add  it  to  the  molasses.  Then  melt  tha 
butter,  and  add,  and  pour  in  gradually 
the  boiling  water,  iTiixing  well.  Now  add 
gradually  the  flour,  beating  well,  and  add 
the  ginger.  Beat  until  all  is  very  smooth, 
and  then  bake  for  a  half  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Manqne. 

The  Yolks  of  8  Eggs. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs  Beaten  to  a  Froth. 

1-2  Pound  of  White  Pulverized  Sugar. 

1    Tablespoonful     of    Butter.     1    Cup     of 

Flour. 

The  Grated  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 


Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  to  a  very  light  cream,  and 
then  add  the  grated  zest  of  the  lemon, 
gradually  add  the  flour,  which  you  will 
have  mingled  and  sifted  with  the  baking 
powder.  Then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  lightly  and 
quickly,  and  place  in  a  buttered  cake  pan, 
a.nd  bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erately quick  oven. 

Nut    Cake. 

Gateau    aux    Noix. 
1  Cup  of  Butter.    2  Cups  of  Sugar. 

3  Cups  of  Flour.     1  Cup  of  Milk. 
i  Eggs.     1  Cup  of  Nut  Meats,  Cut  Fine. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  Baking  Powder. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Extract  of  Almond. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add 
the  sugar,  and  beat  till  very  light.  Then 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
and  beat  till  very  light.  Add  the  milk, 
and  mix  carefully.  Then  sift  the  bakins 
powder  and  flour  together,  and  add  the 
flour,  beating  till  very  smooth.  Add  half 
the  beaten  whites,  which  must  be  of  a 
stiif  froth,  and  mix  well.  Then  add  the 
nuts  (pecans,  mashed  almonds,  peanuts 
and  Brazilian  nuts,  mixed,  and  cut  or 
mashed  very  fine).  Add  the  remainder  of 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  the  Almond  Ex- 
tract and  the  baking  powder,  and  mix 
well.  Pour  inter  two  square,  flat  pan?, 
lined  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Us? 
the  broom-straw  test.  If  the  straw  comes 
out  clean  and  dry  the  cake  is  dona; 
otherwise  bake  it  a  little  longer.  Keep 
the  heat  of  the  oven  steady  and  mod- 
erate. 

Orange  Cake. 

Gateau   d'Orange. 

4     Ripe     Oranges.     1     Pound     Pulverized 

Sugar. 

1  Pound  of  Butter. 

14  Ounces  of  Flour.    10  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

Wash  the  oranges.  Then  dry  and  roll 
them  under  your  hand  on  a  board  till 
very  soft.  Grate  the  zest  of  the  orange^, 
and  then  cut  up  the  fruit  fine,  and 
squeeze  through  a  strainer  till  all  the^ 
juice  is  extracted.  Wash  the  butter  till 
you  extract  all  the  salt,  and  then  beat  It 
to  a  cream.  Add  the  sugar,  and  beat 
thoroughly,  and  then  add  the  orange  ze'st 
and  Juice,  and  beat  till  very  light.  Adi 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
again  beat  the  mixture  till  light.  Then, 
by  degrees,  add  the  flour,  adding  alter- 
nately the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  fiioth.  Beat  the  whole  for  a  half 
hour,  and  then  ba,jke  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  forty-five  minutes  or  an  hour,  using 
the  broom-wisp  test.  If  you  ice  the  cake, 
add   orange  juice  to  the  icing. 

Pearl  Cake. 

Gateau  a  la  Perle. 

3-4  Pound  of  Butter.    1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1   Pint   of  Milk.    4  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  S'oda.    1  Pound  of  Flour. 

1-2  Grated  Nutmeg. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

Beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar  to  a, 
cream.  Beat  the  eggs,  whites  ajid  yolk? 
separately,  and  add  the  yolks.  Then  beat 
till  very  light.  Add  the  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water,  and 
then  add  the  milk  and  beat  carefully. 
Add  the  flour  gradually,  and  beat  vig- 
orously. Then  add  the  spices  and  essence, 
and  lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  for  an  hour  in  ». 
moderate  oven. 


2»4 


Premium    Oake. 

Gateau    Royal. 

The    Whites    of    14    Eggs.    1    Pound    of 

Sugar. 
3-4   Pound    of   Flour.     1-2   Pound    Butter. 

1   Wineglassful   of  Good  Whisky. 
The  Juice  and  Grated  Zest  of  1  L«mon. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
and  add  one-half  of  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Then  add 
the  flour  gradually,  beating  thoroughly 
and  well,  till  very  light.  Now  add  the 
Whisky  and  the  lemon  juice,  and  the 
grated  zest  of  the  lemon,  and  finally  add 
the  remainder  of  the  whites  and  the  bak- 
ing powder,  beating  till  very  light.  Bake 
In  a  moderate  oven  from  forty-five  min- 
utes to  an  hour. 

Pound   Cake. 

1  Poiund  of  Sugar.    1  Pou^d  of  Butter. 

1    Pound    of    Flour.     10    Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  Baking  Powder. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Lemon    or    Vanilla, 

Extract. 

Wash  the  salt  from  one  pound  of  but- 
ter. Then  take  a  tablespoon  and  take 
out  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter 
from  the  pound.  Experience  of  years  la 
baking  pound  cakes  has  laugh  that  a 
whole  pound  of  butter  will  make  a  greasy 
cake,  taeugh  many  use  a  pound.  if 
once  this  latter  method  is  tried  the  dif- 
ference will  be  apparent  in  the  superior 
quality  of  the  cake.  After  washing  th^ 
butter,  beat  it  with  the  white  pulverized 
sugar  to  a  thick  cream.  Have  the  bak- 
ing powder  and  the  flour  sifted  together. 
±>eat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well,  and  then 
add  them  to  the  sugar  and  butter,  beat- 
ing till  very  light.  Then  add  a  part  of 
the  flour,  and  beat  light.  Add  a  part  of 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  mix  thorough- 
ly. Then  alternate  with  the  flour  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  all  are  used 
up.  Add  the  essence  of  lemon  or  vanilla 
and  a  gill  of  Brandy,  and  continue  beat- 
ing vigorously  for  a  half  hour.  Put  the 
batter  in  a  cake  pan  (a  Turk's  head), 
lined  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  bake  for 
one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use  the 
broom-straw  test.  If  the  cake  is  not 
quite  done,  bake  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
longer.  Never  touch  or  move  a  pound 
«ake  in  the  oven  till  the  center  is  set. 

Found    Cake — No.    t. 

1  Pound  of  White  Pulverized  Sugar. 

10  Eggs.    1   Pound  Sifted   Flour. 

1  Grated  Nutmeg.    1  WineglassEul  of 

Brandy. 

1    Pound    of    Butter. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Vanilla,    Lemon    or 

Rose  Water. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

Wash  the  butter  and  drain',  and  take 
out  a  heaping  teaspoonful.  Then  beat 
the  remainder  to  a  rich  cream  with  the 
sugar,  and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs.  Beat  till  very  light,  and  add  a 
part  of  the  flour,  into  which  you  wIU 
have  sifted  the  baking  powder.  Then 
add  a  part  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  continue  al- 
ternating with  the  flour  and  the  eggs  till 
all  are  used  up.  Then  add  the  grated 
nutmeg,  the  Brandy  and  the  essence,  and 
continue  beating  steadily  for  a  half  hour. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 
Use  the  broow-wlsp  test.  If  It  comes  out 
clean  and  dry  the  oake  is  done;  other- 
wise continue  baking  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  longer. 


Some  of  the  Creoles,  in  making  pound 
cake,  use  sixteen  eggs,  leaving  out  the 
yolks  of  four;  others  use  twelve  eggs. 
The  above  measurements  will  be  founl 
exact,  and  if  the  cake  is  properly  made  it 
will  be  delicious. 

The  above  measurements  will  make  a. 
four-pound  cake. 

White  Pound  Cake. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar.     1  Pound  of  Flour. 

1  Pound    of    Butter.     The    Whites    of   16 

Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Extract. 

Wash  the  butter.  Then  beat  it  and 
the  sugar  to  a  fine  cream.  Add  one- 
quarter  of  the  flour,  well  sifted  with  the 
baking  powder.  Then  add  one-quarter 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  you 
will  have  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Con- 
tinue alternating  the  eggs  and  flour  till 
all  are  used.  Add  the  flavoring  extract, 
and  beat  steadily  for  a  half  hour.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

Plum     Cake,     or     Old— Fasliioned    Creole 
Wedding  Cake. 

Gateau  de  Noces  Creole  a  I'Ancienne. 

2  1-2   Pounds   Flour.     1 1-2  Pounds   Sifted 

Sugar. 

11-2    Pounds    Butter. 

1  Pound  of  Seeded  and  Chopped  Raisins. 

1  Pound  Chopped  and  Dried  Cherries. 

1   Pound   of  Currants,   Washed,  Cleansed 

and  Dried. 

12  Eggs.    1  Ounce  of  Salt. 

1 1-2  Pounds  of  Shredded  Orange,  Lemon 

and  Green  Citron  Peel,  Combined. 

1-2  Pint  of  French  Brandy. 

1-2    Gill     of    Caramel     or    Burnt    Sugar 

Coloring. 

8  Ounces  of  Ground  Almonds. 

The  Zest  of  4  Oranges.     ' 

1  Ounce  of  Ground  Cloves. 

Cinnamon,  Nutmeg  and  Coriander  Seed  in 

Equal  Proportions. 

Work  the  butter  until  it  becomes  very 
creamy,  using  a  wooden  spoon.  Then 
add  the  sugar,  working  to  a  thick  cream, 
and  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Beat  till  'light,  and  add  by  de- 
grees the  flour,  salt  and  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  working  the  bat- 
ter all  the  time.  Then  add  the  fruit, 
which  you  will  have  dredged  slightly  with 
flour,  working  them  well  Into  the  batter. 
Add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
thick  froth,  and  when  all  are  well  in- 
corporated, pour  the  mixture  into  a  hair- 
ing pan,  lined  with  double  sheets  of  but- 
-  tered  paper,  and  place  on  top  thick  sheets 
of  paper  which  you  set  in  the  oven.  Base 
in  a  moderate  oven,  and  keep  the  heat 
regular  and  steady  all  the  time,  beloc 
careful  not  to  increase  or  diminish  it 
during  the  baking.  Bake  for  two  hours 
and  a  half.  This  is  the  largest  wedding 
cake.  To  make  a  smaller  one,  use  half 
the  ingredients,  and  bake  half  the  time. 

To  ice  the  cake,  clear  it  of  the  papsr 
when  It  grows  cold.  Place  it  on  a  baking 
sheet,  and  cover  the  top  with  a  coating 
of  Orgeat  Paste  (see  recipe)  one  and  % 
half  inches  thick.  Let  it  drj'  for  an  hour 
and  then  cover  with  a  coating  of  Plain 
Icfng  (see  recipe)  about  half  an  inch  In 
thickness.  When  this  becomes  hard  dec- 
orate it  with  a  piping  around  the  edges 
in  tasteful  designs,  mingling  artificial 
buds  and  blossoms  In  the  decorations. 
Add  a  delicate  wreath  of  blush  roses. 
This  is  the  old-fashioned  Creole  wedding 
cake. 


205 


Baisln  Cake. 

Gateau   de  Kalslns   S'ecs. 

1 1-2  Pounds  of  Stoned  Raisins. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Sugar.     1 1-2  Pints  of  Flour. 

3-4  Pound   of  Butter.      1-2   Pint   of   Milk. 

6  Eggs. 

1-2  Gill  of  White  or  Sherry  Wine. 

1-2  Gill  of  Brandy. 

2  1-2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  to- 
gether. Then  heat  the  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
and  beat  till  very  light.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then  add  alternately 
the  whites  and  flour  to  the  mixture,  beat- 
ing vigorously  till  light.  Now  add  the 
Wine  and  Brandy.  Flour  the  raisins,  and 
shake  lightly,  till  each  becomes  slightly 
coated  on  each  side,  and  add  to  the  cake 
batter,  and  then  begin  to  stir  lightly, 
stirring  just  sufficient  to  mix.  Have 
ready  a  deep  baking  pan  or  two,  lined 
with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  slight- 
ly quick  oven  for  from  forty-five  minutes 
to  an  hour.  Have  a  thick  layer  of  papet 
over  the  cake  for  the  first  half  hour  ot 
baking. 

Spanish  Cake. 
Gateau  a  I'Bspagnole. 

1   Pound    of    Butter.    1    Pound    of    Sifted 

Flour. 

1  Pound  of  Good  Brown  Sugar. 

6   Well-Beaten    Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  egg's, 
and  then  alternately  the  flour,  with 
which  the  baking  powder  nas  been  sifted, 
and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Bake  in  a  buttered  cake  pan 
for  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Spice  Cake. 

Gateau   d'Epices. 

1  Pound  of  Flour. 

1  Pound  of  White  Pulverized  Sugar. 

S-4  of  a  Pound  of  Butter.    9  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful   of   Ground   Cinnamon. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  Ground  Allspice. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Grated    Nutmeg. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Mace. 

1  Wineglassful  Brandy. 

1  Wineglassful  ot  Sherry  or  Madeira. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

1   Cup   of   Sour    Cream.    1-4   Teaspoonful 

of   Salt. 

Beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar  to  a 
cream,  and  then  add  the  well-beatdn 
yolks  of  the  eggs.  Beat  till  very  light. 
Add  half  the  flour  gradually,  alternatmg 
with  half  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which 
you  will  have  beaten  to  a  thick  froth. 
Then  add  the  spices,  the  Brandy  and  thfl 
Wine.  11  ow  add  gradually  the  rest  of  the 
flour,  and  then  the  remainder  of  tn-J 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Finally  add  the  sour 
milk,  into  which  you  will  have  dissolved 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  tablespoor- 
ful  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well,  and  turn 
into  a  buttered  Turk's  head  tin,  and  bak-; 
for  one  hour  In  a  moderate  oven.  Une 
the  broom-straw  test. 

Spiced    Molasses    Cake. 

■Gateau  d'Epices  a  la  Melasse. 

1  Cup  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 

1   Cup   of   Sugar.    1-2   Cup   of  Butter.    2 

Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Vinegar. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  Soda. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  Each  of  Cloves,  Allspice 

and  Cinnamon    (Ground). 

1  Grated  Nutmeg.    3  Cups  of  Flour. 

1-4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 


Warm,  the  molasses  and  dilute  with 
vinegar.  Beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar 
to  a  cream,  and  then  add  the  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks,  well  beaten  together.  Then 
add  gradually  one-half  of  the  flour  and 
the  molasses.  Add  the  grated  spices  and 
salt.  Beat  well.  Add  the  soda,  dissolved 
in  two  tablespooufuls  of  boiling  wata.-. 
and  beat  well.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Gateau  Biscuit  de  Savoie. 

9    Eggs.     1    Pound    of    White    Pulverized 

Sugar. 

1-2  Pound   Flour. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light, 
and  then  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  till  very 
light.  Then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon, 
and  add  gradually  one-half  of  the  flour. 
Have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
very  stiff  froth,  so  clear  that  they  may 
be  cut  with  a  knife.  Add  one-half  to  the 
cake,  and  then  add  the  remaining  half  of 
the  flour.  Beat  well.  Now  add  the  ni 
maining  half  of  the  whites,  and  beat 
lightly.  Po-ur  into  a  cake  pan,  lined  at 
the  bottom  and  around  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  in  a  quick  over  from 
forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour,  using 
the  broom-straw  test.  Cover  the  cake 
with  a  layer  of  thick  brown  paper  when 
you  first  put  it  in  the  oven.  Keep  the 
heat  of  the  oven  steady.  The  Sponge 
Cake,  next  to  "Lady  Fingers,"  which  are 
a  species  of  sponge,  is  the  very  lightest 
of  cakes. 

Cream    Sponge    Cake. 

Biscuit  de  Savoie  a  la  Creme. 

2  Cups  of  Sugar.    1  Cup  of  Cream. 

2  Cups  of  Flour.    4  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Essence. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  cream,  ana 
gradually  add  the  flour  and  baking  pow- 
der, sifted.  Add  the  whites  of  the  eggM, 
beat  lightly,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
thirty  miuntes. 

Quick  Sponge  Cake. 

Vitement    Fait. 

3  Eggs.    11-2  Cups  of  Sugar. 

2  Cups  of  Flour.    1-2  Cup  of  Cold  Water. 

1  Teaspoonful  Lemon  Extract. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 
Beat  the   eggs   and   sugar   to   a  crCT.m, 

add  the  water,  and  mix  well.  Thfn 
gradually  add  the  flour,  alternating  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a,  thick 
froth.  Bake  from  thirty  to  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

White   Sponge   Cake. 

Gateau    Blanc. 

1 1-2  Cups  of  Pulverized  White  Sugar. 

1  Cup  of  Flour.     The  Whites  of  11  Eggi. 

1  Teaspoonful  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  tho 
sugar  to  a  thick  froth.  Mix  the  baking 
powder  and  the  flour,  adding  the  POWder 
after  the  fourth  sifting.  Then  add  the 
flour  gradually  to  the  eggs,  beating  light- 
ly and  thoroughly.  Add  the  essence,  and 
bake  for  from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 


206 


Tnttl-Frnttl    Cake. 

Gateau    Tuttl    Frutti. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar.     1  Cup  of  Butter. 

I  Teacup  of  Milk.    2 1-2  Teacups  of  Flour. 

2  Teaspoontuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Pound  of  Raisins.     1  Pound  of  Figs. 

1  Pound  of  Powdered  Almonds. 

Tlie  "Wliites  of  7  Eggs. 

Take  one  teacupful  of  sugar  and  ons 
of  butter  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  a 
teacupful  of  milk  and  two  and  a  half 
teaspoonfuls  of  flour  sifted,  with  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
add  one  pound  of  raisins,  well  seeded, 
and  one  pound  each  of  shredded  figs  and 
pounded  almonds.  After  mixing  all  these 
well,  add  the  whites  of  seven  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 
When  done,  make  a  light  syrup  and 
spread  over  the  top,  and  garnish  with 
pieces  of  finely-cut  preserved  citron, 
oranges,  preserved  currants  and  other 
candies. 

White    Mountain    Cake. 

Gateau  a  la  Montagne  Blanche. 

1  Pound  Sugar.     1 1-2  Pounds  Butter. 

1    Pound    of    Flour.       The    Whites    of   10 

Eggs. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Almond  Extract. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and 
heat  till  very,  very  light.  Add  the  flour 
alternately  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then  the  es- 
sence exartca.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oveu 
one  hour. 

White  Cream  Cake. 
Gateau  a  la  Creme. 

4  Cups  of  Flour.    1  Cup  of  Butter. 

1    Cup    of   Sweet    Cream. 

3  Cups  of  Sugar.     The  Whites  of  10  Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 
1    Teaspoonful    of    White    Rose    Extract. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  White  Mountain  Cake,  only  adding 
the  cream  just  before  adding  the  flour 
and  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Twelfth    Night,    or    King's    Cake. 

Gateau  de  Rol. 

2  Pounds  of  the  Best  Flour. 

12  Eggs.    1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1    Pound    of    the    Best    Butter. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Yeast. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Salt. 

Candies   to    Decorate. 

This  Is  a  Creole  cake  whose  history  is 
the  history  of  the  famous  New  Orleans 
carnivals  celebrated  in  song  and  stories. 
The  "King's  Cake,"  or  "Gateau  de  Roi," 
is  inseparably  connected  with  the  origin 
of  our  now  world-famed  carnival  balls. 
In  fact,  they  owe  their  origin  to  the  oil 
Creole  custom  of  choosing  a  king  and 
queen  on  King's  Day,  or  Twelfth  Night. 
In  old  Creole  New  Orleans,  after  the  in- 
auguration of  the  Spanish  domination 
and  the  amalgamation  of  the  French 
settlers    and    the    Spanish    into    that    pe- 


culiarly chivalrous  and  romantic  rac?, 
the  Louisiana  Creole,  the  French  prettily 
adopted  many  of  the  customs  of  their 
Spanish  relatives,  and  vice  versa.  Among 
these  was  the  traditional  Spanish  celebra- 
tion of  King's  Day,  "Le  Jour  des  Roia," 
ag  the  Creoles  always  term  the  day. 
King's  Day  falls  on  January  6,  or  the 
twelfth  day  after  Christmas,  and  com- 
memorates the  visit  of  three  Wise  Men  of 
the  East  to  the  lowly  Bethlehem  manger. 
This  day  is  even  in  our  time  still  the 
Spanish  Christmas,  when  gifts  are  pre- 
sented in  commemoration  of  the  King'd 
gifts.  With  the  Creoles  it  became  "La 
Petit  Noel,"  or  Little  Christmas,  and 
adopting  the  Spanish  custom,  there  were 
always  grand  balls  on  Twelfth  Night;  a 
king  and  a  queen  were  chosen,  and  there 
were  constant  rounds  of  festivities,  night 
after  night,  till  the  dawn  of  Ash  Wednes- 
uay.  From  January  6,  or  King's  Day, 
to  Mardi  Gras  Day  became  the  accepted 
Carnival  season.  Each  week  a  new  kin;^ 
and  queen  were  chosen,  and  no  royal 
rulers  ever  reigned  more  happily  than 
did  these  kings  and  queens  of  a  week. 

To  make  the  cake  take  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  the  above-mentioned  quality  of 
flour,  and  put  it  in  a  wooden  bread 
trough.  Make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the 
flour,  and  put  in  a  half  ounce  of  yeast, 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Adi 
milk  or  tepid  water  to  make  the  dougi, 
using  milk  if  you  want  it  to  be  very  rich 
and  delicate,  and  water  if  you  have  not 
the  milk.  Knead  and  mix  the  flour  with 
one  hand,  while  adding  the  milk  or  water 
with  the  other.  Make  a  dough  that  is 
neither  too  stiff  nor  too  soft,  and  when 
perfectly  smooth  set  the  dough  to  rise  in 
a  moderately  warm  place,  covering  with 
a  cloth.  Remember  that  if  you  use  milk 
to  make  the  dough  it  must  be  scalded, 
that  is,  must  be  heated  to  the  boiling 
point,  and  then  allowed  to  grow  tepid. 
Let  the  dough  rise  for  five  or  six  hou^^, 
and,  when  increased  to  twice  its  bulk, 
take  it  and  add  the  reserved  half  pound 
of  flour,  into  which  you  will  have  sifted 
the  salt.  Add  six  eggs,  beaten  very  light 
with  the  sugar  and  butter,  and  mix  all 
well  together,  kneading  lightly  with  your 
hands,  and  adding  more  eggs  if  tha 
dough  is  a  little  stiff.  Then  knead  the 
dough  by  turning  it  over  on  itself  three 
times,  and  set  to  rise  again  for  an  hour 
or  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Cover  wi*a 
a  cloth.  At  the  end  of  this  time  take  it 
up  and  work  again  lightly,  and  then  form 
into  a  great  ring,  leaving,  of  course,  a 
hole  in  the  center.  Pat  gently  and  flat- 
ten a  little.  Have  ready  a  baking  nac 
with  a  buttered  sheet  of  paper  in  it,  anil 
set  the  central  roll  in  the  middle.  Cover 
the  pan  with  a  clean,  stiff  cloth,  and  set 
the  cake  to  rise  for  an  hour  longer, 
"WTien  well  risen,  set  in  an  oven  a  few  de- 
grees cooler  than  that  used  for  bakms 
bread;  let  bake  tor  an  hour  and  a  ha?f; 
if  medium,  one  hour,  and  If  very  small, 
a  half  hour.  Glace  the  Brioche  lightly 
with  a  beaten  egg,  spread  lightly  over  the 
top  before  placing  in  the  oven.  Decorate 
with  dragees,  caramels,  etc. 


In  making  layer  cakes,  always  havo 
ready  three  or  four  jelly  tins,  and  baVe 
the  cake  in  layers  In  the  separate  tins  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Then  set  to  cool,  an<l 
make  the  fillings  and  place  alternately 
between  the  layers,  a  layer  of  cake  al- 
ways being  on  top,  to  admit  of  icing,  if 
desired. 


CHAPTER  XXXVni. 
LAYER   CAKES. 
General    Dtrectlons. 

These  directions  tor  arranging  the  fiU- 
ing  will  hold  for  almost  all  layer  cake. 

Layer  Cake, 

To  make  the  laver  cake,  use  any  good 
Sponge,  Pound  or  White  Cake  recipe», 
using  three-quarters  of  the  proportion* 
o-f  each  to  make  four  good  layers,  and  In- 


207 


creasing  In  proportion.  Balce  in  jelly  tins 
tor  fifteen  minutes,  and  set  to  oool  before 
adding  the  tilling. 

Almond   Cake; 

Gateau  d'Amandes. 

2  Cups  of  Sugar.     1  Cup  of  Milk. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Cups  of  Flour.     The  Whites  of  6  Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  Lemon  Extract. 

Proceed  to  cream  the  butter  and  sugar. 
Add  the  milk,  and  gradually  add  th'^ 
flour  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  alter- 
nately, and  beat  till  light.  Add  the  e'3- 
sence,  and  bake  in  jelly  tins  fifteen  min- 
utes.    Make  a  filling  as  follows: 

Take  two  pounds  of  almonds,  blanch 
them,  peel  and  pound  to  a  flour.  Beat 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  froth  with 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  and  spread  on  toD 
of  the  bottom  layer  of  cake  as  a  frost- 
ing. Place  over  this  a  layer  of  the  al- 
monds, and  then  a'nother  layer  of  frost- 
ing. Add  a  layer  of  cake,  and  then  go 
over  the  same  process  again  till  the  top 
layer  of  cake  is  reached.  Sprinkle  with 
white  sugar  or  ice  neatly,  according  to 
taste. 

Banana    Layer    Cake, 

Gateau  de  Bananes. 

9   Eggs.    1-2  Pound   of   Flour. 

1 1-2  Cups  of  Pulverized  Sugar. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Lemon    or   Vanilla 

Extract. 

3  Bananas. 

Prepare  four  layers  of  S'ponge  Cak3. 
(See  recipe.)  Slice  the  bananas  length- 
wise very  nicely  and  lay  on  the  bottom 
layer.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  powdered 
sugar,  and  then  spread  a  little  Crea'n 
Sauce  which  has  been  made  to  the  con- 
sistency of  Cream  Puff  Filling.  (See  re- 
cipe.) Over  this  put  on  the  second  layer 
of  cake;  cover  nicely  with  the  bananas 
and  the  Cream  Sauce,  and  proceed  thus 
till  the  top  layer  is  placed  over  the  ba- 
nanas. Then  sprinkle  with  white  sugar 
or  ice,  according  to  taste. 

Chocolate  IJayer  Cake. 

Gateau  au  Chocolat. 

A    Layer    Cake.     (See   recipe.)     1    Cup    of 

Powdered    Sugar. 

1    Cup    of   Milk    or    "Water.    4    Ounces    of 

Chocolate. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

Make  a  layer  cake.  Boil  four  ounces 
of  chocolate  in  one  cup  of  milk  or  water. 
Add  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  till 
thick.  Spread  between  the  layers  of  cake. 
Or  take  tour  ounces  of  chocolate,  melt 
with  a  little  boiling  water,  just  sufficient 
to  make  a  paste,  and  work  till  smooth. 
Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
sugar,  and  then  proceed  as  in  Almond 
Layer  Cake,  having  a  layer  of  chocolate 
on  top. 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake. 
Gateau   au   Coco. 

4  Layers   of   Cake.     (See  Layer  Cake 

Recipe.) 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

1    Cup    of   Powdered    Sugar.    2    Cups    ot 

Grated  Cocoanut. 

White  Sugar  to  Sprinkle. 

Make  a  good  layer  cake.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  till  very  frothy.  Add 
one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  till 
very  stiff.  Grate  the  cocoanut,  and  then 
proceed   as   in   filling   the  Almond   Cake, 


having  a  layer  at  the  cocoanut  on   top, 
sprinkled  with  white  sugar.     (See  recipe  ) 

Cream  Layer   Cake. 

Gateau  a  la  Creme. 
4   Layers   of  Sponge   Cake.     (S'ee   recipe.) 

The  Yolks  of  2  Eggs. 
1  Cup  of  Pulverized  Sugar.    2  Teaspoon- 
fuls ot  Cream. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  "Vanilla. 
Make  a  layer  sponge   cake.     Prepare  a 
tilling  by   beating  togetlier  the   yolks   of 
two    eggs,    one    cup    of    pulverized    sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful    of     "Vanilla.       Beat     and     mix 
thoroughly  to  a  thick  cream,  and  spread 
between  the  layers,  with  a  layer  of  calce 
on  top. 

Fig    Layer    Cake. 

Gateau  aux  Figues. 

4   Layers   ot  Sponge   Cake.     (See   recipe  ) 

1  Pound  of  Chopped  Figs. 

1   Cup   ot  Sugar.     1-2   Cup   ot   Water. 

Make    a    layer    cake — any    good    white. 

sponge     or    cream.     Bake    in    jelly    tins. 

Boil  one  pound  ot  chopped  figs,  one  cup 

of  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  of  water,  till 

the  figs  form  a  jelly.     Spread,  when  oool. 

between    tne    layers    of   cake,    while   they 

are  still  hot,   and  proceed  as  in  Almond 

Layer  Cake. 

Jelly   Layer    Cake. 

Gateau  a  la  Gelee. 

4    Layers    ot    Cake.     (See    Recipe    LaytT 

Cake.) 

1  Cup  of  Pineapple,  Peach,  Raspberry  or 

Any  Jelly. 

Make  a  layer  cake,   and   spread,  whije 

hot,  with  any  kind  of  jelly,  peach,  lemon, 

raspberry,  apple,  strawberry  or  the  like. 

Lemon  Layer  Cake. 

Gateau   au  Citron. 

The  Grated  Rind  and  Juice  ot  1  Lemon. 

4  Layers  of  Cake.  (See  recipe.) 
1  Cup  of  Sugar.  1  Egg.  1  Teaspoonful 
of  Water. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Flour. 
Make  a  good  layer,  sponge  or  cup  cake. 
Prepare  a  good  layer  filling  of  creamed 
lemon  by  taking  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
egg,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  water  and  one 
of  flour.  Blend  the  sugar,  water  and 
flour,  and  add  the  well-beaten  egg.  Add 
the  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon.  Boll  In 
a  bain-marie  (a  kettle  set  in  a  kettle  of 
hot  water),  and  let  it  thicken.  Spread 
between  the  layers,  and  ice,  or  sprinkle 
with   sugar. 

Orange   Layer   Cake. 

Gateau  a  I'Orange. 

4    Layers    ot    Pound   or    Cup    Cake.     (See 

Recipe.) 

The  Whites  ot  2  Eggs. 

3  Cups  ot  Sugar. 

The  Grated  Rind  and  Juice  of  1  Orange. 

Juice   of  Half  a    Lemon. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Orange  Extract. 

Make  a  good  layer,  pound  or  cup  cake. 

Then  make  a  filling  ot  the  whites  of  two 

eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind 

and  juice  ot  one  orange,  half  a  lemon's 

juice,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  orange  extract. 

Mix  all  thoroughly,   and  spread  between 

the  layers  of  the  cake. 

Pecan  Layer  Cake. 

Gateau   aux   Pecanes. 

4  Layers  of  Cup  or  Sponge  Cake. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs.    1  Cup  of  Minced 

Louisiana  Pecans. 
3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar.    1  Teaspoon- 
ful of  Lemon  Extract. 


208 


Make  a  good  Layer  Cake  or  Cup  Cakn. 
(See  recipe.)  Beat  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  cup  ot 
minced  and  pounded  pecans.  Add  one 
teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon,  and  fill 
the  cake,  leaving  a  layer  of  the  filling  on 
tcp.  This  is  a  typical  Creole  cake.  In- 
stead of  mincing  the  pecans  for  the 
layers,  some  cooks  shell  them  in  halves 
This  is  a  matter  of  taste. 

Pineapple  Layer  Cake. 

Gateau  a,  TAnanas. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

1 1-2  Cups  of  Pulverized  Sugar. 

9    Eggs. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Lemon    or    Pineapple 

Extract. 

1    Pineapple. 

Prepare  four  layers  of  sponge  cake. 
Pare  the  pineapple,  being  careful  to  cut 
out  all  the  eyes  and  the  core.  Grate  the 
fruit  very  fine.  Place  a  layer  of  the 
fruit  over  the  bottom  layer  of  the  cake, 
sprinkle  with  a  little  powdered  sugar  and 
then  spread  over  this  a  little  Cream 
Sauce,  which  has  been  made  to  the  con- 
sistency of  Cream  Puff  Filling.  (See  re- 
cipe.) Put  a  second  layer  of  the  cake 
over  this,  cover  nicely  with  the  grated 
pineapple,  sugar  and  Cream  Filling,  and 
proceed  thus  till  the  top  layer  is  placed 
over  the  pinea/pple.  Then  ice  or  sprinkle 
with  white  sugar. 

Balsln   Cake. 
Gateau   aux    Raisins    Sees. 

4    Layers    of   Pound    or    Cup    Cake.     (See 

Recipe.) 

1-4  Pound   of  Raisins.     1-4  Pound  of 

Citron. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  Each  of  Ground  Cloves, 

Cinnamon,  Allspice  and  Nutmeg. 

Frosting  to   Cover. 

Make  a  good  Pound  or  Cup  Cake.  (See 
recipes.)  Bake  in  tins,  taking  out  enough 
to  fill  three  tins.  Then  add  to  the  re- 
maining batter  one-half  teaspoonful  each 
of  ground  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg,  and  one-quarter  pound  each  of 
raisins,  seeded,  and  citron,  chopped  very 
fine.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  two 
layers.     Place    between   the    other   layers. 


alternating    with    a    frosting,    as    in    Al- 
mond Layer  Cake.     (See  recipe.) 

Balnbow    Cake. 

Gateau  a  I'Arc-en-Clel. 

6   Layers    of   Sponge   or   of  Pound  Cake. 

3  Ounces  of  Pink  Icing. 

3  Ounces  of  Violet  Icing. 

3  Ounces  of  Chocolate  Icing. 

3  Ounces  of  Vanilla  Icing. 

3  Ounces  of  White  Icing. 

Make  a  good  layer  cake,  either  Pound 
or  Sponge.  Prepare  the  Cream  Icing<* 
(see  repices  under  chapter  Icings  for 
Cakes).  Place  these  between  the  alter- 
nate layers  in  the  order  above  given.  Ice 
the  cake  nicely.  This  is  a  very  pretty 
cake. 

Layer   Cake   of  Fresh   Fruits. 

Gateau  aux  Fruits. 

4    Layers    of   White    or   Gold   Cake.     (Set 

Recipes.) 

3  Apples.     2-3  of  a  (jup  of  -Sugar. 

1    Tabiespoonful    of    Orange    or    Lemon 

Extract. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs.    4  Tablespoonfuls 

of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Make  a  good  White  Cake  or  Gold  Cake. 
(See  recipes.)  Pare  and  grate  three  ap- 
ples, and  cook  them  with  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  sugar.  When  they  come  to  a  thic't 
jelly,  take  off  the  stove  and  flavor  with 
Lemon  or  Orange  Extract.  Take  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  till  very  light, 
and  then  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  sugar,  and  beat  till  very  stiff,  so 
stiff  that  the  whites  can  stand  alone. 
Spread  a  layer  of  this  on  the  top  of  the 
bottom  layer  uf  cake,  add  a  layer  of  ap- 
ples, spread  another  layer  of  frosting, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  cake,  and  so  con- 
tinue till  all  is  used  up. 

'Strawberry  layer  cake,  peach,  rasp- 
berry, apricot,  orange,  pineapple  and  all 
fresh  fruit  layer  cakes  may  be  made  in 
the  same  manner.  Only  in  the  orange 
and  pineapple  do  not  cook  the  pinappl? 
or  orange.  Simply  grate  four  or  five 
oranges,  or  one  pineapple,  and  spread 
the  pineapple  in  layers  between  the  frost- 
ing. These  cakes,  properly  made,  are 
most   delicious. 


CHAPTER  XXXrX. 
DFSSEBT   CAKES. 

Patisserie  Fine  Pour  Dessert. 


Des     Bonchees,      Macarons,      Massepains, 
Meringues,     Melees,    Creoles. 

Biscuits  aux  Amandes   et  aux  Pistaohe^, 
Amandes    Souffles,    etc. 

Perhaps  no  cuisine  can  boast  of  such 
a  number  of  delicious  small  cakes  that 
may  serve  for  desserts,  both  elegant  and 
choice,  as  the  Creole  cuisine.  The  native 
ingenuity  of  the  Creole  chefs  adapted 
many  of  the  nuts  and  fruits  of  Louisian.x 
to  various  forms  of  sweetened  batter,  and 
the  result  of  their  efforts,  handed  down 
from  generation  to  generation,  is  given 
in  the  following  carefully  compiled  rs- 
cipes,  which,  perhaps,  after  our  unique 
"Gumbos,"  "Courtbouillons,"  "BouiUa- 
baise,"  "Ragouts"  and  "Jambalayas,"  will 
serve  better  than  any  other  recipes  to 
give  a  true  idea  of  the  Infinite  variety 
and  delight  of  the  properly  conducted 
Creole  kitchen.  They  will  also  give  » 
glimpse  Into  the  interior  life  of  the  Cre- 
ole household,  some  of  them,  especially, 
being  associated  with  pleasant,  simple 
forms   of  "soirees,"   that,   alas!    have   al- 


most passed  away  since  the  intercourst 
of  the  old  French  quarter  with  the  Amer- 
ican city  above  Canal'  street  has  become 
so  general. 

Advice      and      Instructions     for     Bakinff 
These  Cakes. 

Use  the  best  materials.  It  always  pays 
in  the  delicate  and  perfect  taste  of  the 
cake. 

Soda,  if  not  properly  dissolved,  wlU 
give  to  cakes  and  biscuits  a  bad,  greer- 
ish   color. 

Keep  the  cake  out  of  the  draft  while 
beating  and  baking.  All  the  following 
cakes,  as,  indeed,  all  cakes,  should  be 
baked  in  their  own  steam,  that  is,  keep 
the  door  and  damper  shut  till  the  cakes 
have  finished  spreading.  Then,  if  the 
oven  is  hot  enough,  you  may  open  th« 
damper.  This  gives  the  cake  a  light, 
bright  color.  Remember  meringues  and 
other  large  cakes  are  not  intended  In 
these  Instructions.  For  meringues  the 
oven  must  never  be  very  hot. 

If  you  are  expert  at  baking,  you  may 


209 


test  the  heat  of  the  oven  simply  by 
touching  the  handle  of  the  oven  door, 
but  a  sure  test  for  beginners  is  to  thronv 
a  little  cornmeal  or  flour  in  the  center 
of  the  oven,  count  ten,  and  if  the  flour 
begins  to  smoke  before  you  count  the 
full  number  the  oven  is  too  hot,  it  il 
smolces  at  ten  the  oven  has  the  proper 
heat. 

Never  put  flavoring  extracts  directly 
into  the  flour,  or  they  will  form  lumos. 
Always  put  them  in  the  wet  part  of  the 
mixture. 

BOUCHEBS. 

These  are  a  delicious  form  of  dessert 
cakes,  and  are  considered  both  elegant 
and  recherche.  Great  care  must  be  taken 
to  trim  the  cakes  evenly  and  of  equal 
size  before  attempting  to  finish  them. 
Bouchees  are  made  with  batter  and  also 
•  with  alraC'St  all  our  Louisiana  fruits. 
As  the  name  indicates  Bouchees  are 
simply  "a  mouthful." 

Bouchees  de  Dames. 

9    Eggs.    1    Pound    of    White    Pulverized 

Sugar. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

1    Cup    of    Currant    or    Other    Jelly    for 

Pilling. 

Transparent  Icing  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  a  sponge  or  cup  cake  batter. 
(See  recipe  under  chapter  "Cakes.")  Have 
ready  a  baking  sheet,  which  you  will 
cover  with  white  writing  paper,  i^ay  the 
batter  out  on  the  paper  by  forcing  ii 
through  a  biscuit  cutter  in  rounds  that 
will  measure  one  inch  and  a  half  In 
diameter.  They  will  spread.  Dredge  the 
surface  with  white  sugar  very  lightly, 
and  bake  them  for  about  fifteen  minutes 
or  less,  until  they  are  a  light  color.  Then 
trim  nicely  and  place  them  upon  a  wire 
drainer.  Place  circular  pieces  of  currant 
or  other  preserves  on  top,  and  garnish 
with  a  meringue  or  Transparent  Icing. 
(See  recipe.)  Set  in  the  stove  or  the  sun 
to  dry,  and  in  ten  minutes  they  will  be 
ready  to  serve. 

Bouchees   With    Oranses. 
Bouchees  aux  Oranges. 

9   Eggs.    1    Pound    of    Pulverized    Sugar. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

The  Juice  of  1  Orange  or  1  Tablespoonful 

of  Extract. 

1   cup   of  Orange   Marmalade. 

Transparent  Icing  to  Garnish. 

Prepare    the     cake    drops    as     directed 

above,   with   sponge   or   cup   cake   batter. 

Then  place  thin  slices  of  oranges  cooked 

in    syrup    on    the    Bouchees    (see    Orange 

Marmalade),    and    gloss    them    over   with 

Transparent  Icing.     (See  recipe:)     Flavor 

the    batter    of    these    Bouchees    with    the 

zest    of     an     orange     or     with     Curacoa 

Liqueur.     (See  recipe.) 

Bouchees  With  Peaches. 
Bouchees  aux  Peches. 

9    Eggs.     1    Pound    of    White    Pulverized 

fl'ugar. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Noyau  Extract. 

1  Cup  of  Preserved  Peaches. 

Transparent  Icing  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  the  drop  cakes  as  directed  In 
"Bouchees  de  Dames."  Place  halves  of 
peaches,  preserved  in  syrup,  over  th'2m 
(home-made  preserves),  and  gloss  over 
with  Transparent  Icing,  flavored  with 
Noyau,  and  slightly  tinged  with  Carmine. 
(See  retipe.) 


In  preparing  all  these  bouchees,  do  not 
allow  any  excess  of  moisture  from  the 
preserves.  The  syrup  should  become  ei- 
tirely  absorbed  into  the  bouchee  befors 
you  attempt  to  gloss  it  with  ihe  icing. 

Bouchees  with  apricots  or  cherries  arc 
prepared  in  the  same  way,  using,  in  the 
former  case,  a  flavoring  of  Cedratl 
liqueur,  and  in  the  latter  Maraschino. 

In  making  bouchees  with  preserves  use 
any  kind  of  marmalade  to  stick  two 
bouchees  together,  and  ice  the  surface. 

Bouchees   With   Pineapples. 

Bouchees  aux  Ananas. 

9    Eggs.     1    Pound    of    Pulverized    Sugar. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

1  Cup  of  Preserved  Pineapples. 

Transparent  Icing  to  Garnish. 

Prepare  the  drop  cakes  one  inch  and  a 
half  in  diameter.  Pl3,ce  smaller  slices  of 
thin,  preserved  pineapple  upon  each,  and 
gloss  or  glace  over  with  Transparent 
xcing  (see  recipe),  flavoring  with  pine- 
apple  syrup. 

MACAROONS. 

Macarons. 

1    Pound    of   Sweet   Almonds. 

1  Ounce  of  Butter. 

2  Pounds  of  Sifted  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  6  Eggs. 

Blanch  or  scald  the  almonds  by  throw- 
ing them  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and 
letting  them  remain  on  the  fire  until  you 
can  take  one  of  the  almonds  between 
your  fingers  and  easily  push  off  the  skin 
by  pushing  it  between  the  finger  and 
thumb.  Then  drain  and  cool  the  almonds 
in  cold  water,  and  drain  again.  Rub  the 
almond  skins  or  hulls  off  with  your 
hands  in  a  cloth,  throw  the  almonds  in 
cold  water  with  a  little  salt,  wash  clean, 
drain  and  dry  them  in  another  cloth. 
The  almonds  must  be  cold  before  you  put 
them  into  a  mortar.  Then  pound  them 
to  a  pulp  that  will  be  as  smooth  as  flour. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Add  a  little  of  the  sugar  and  a 
little  of  the  eggs  as  you  pound,  to  pre- 
vent the  almonds  from  becoming  oily. 
Remember  always  that  the  paste  muf^t 
be  kept  firm  as  you  add  the  remainder  of 
the  sugar  and  the  eggs.  Have  ready  a 
baking  sheet,  on  which  you  will  have 
placed  a  buttered  piece  of  wafer  paper. 
Lay  the  macaroons  out  on  this,  by  drop- 
ping them  from  the  spoon,  in  the  form  of 
a  guinea  fowl's  egg.  Be  very  careful  to 
place  the  macaroons  about  an  inch 
apart,'  so  that  the  balls  will  not  touch  one 
another.  When  the  sheet  is  full,  pass  » 
■wet  paste  brush  gently  over  their  surface. 
Put  them  in  the  oven,  and  bake  at  a  very 
moderate  heat  till  they  are  a  light,  deli- 
cate browTi  or  fawn  color.  When  donf?, 
take  out  and  set  to  cool,  and  take  away 
any  excess  of  wafer  paper  that  may  cling 
to  the  edges.    Keep  in  a  dry  place. 

Chocolate    Macaroons. 

Macarons    au    Chocolat. 

12  Ounces  of  Ground  Almonds. 

1 1-2  Pounds  of  Sifted  White  Sugar. 

4    Ounces    ot    Grated    French    Chocolate. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Sugar. 

Mix  all  the  Ingredients  together  in  .-» 
bowl,  and  let  it  form  a  stiff  paste.  Then 
lay  the  macaroons  out  upon  the  wafer 
sheet  in  the  form  of  lady  fingers.  Bake 
at  a  very  moderate  heat  till  a  light 
brovsm. 


210 


Creole    Macaroons. 

Macarons  a  la  Creole. 

12  Ounces   of  Shredded  Almonds. 

4  Ounces  of  Ground  Almonds. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

2  Eggs.     4  Ounces  of  Wheat  Flour. 

The  Zest  of  2  Oranges. 

Blanch  and  wash  and  dry  the  almonds. 
Then  grind  (not  pound)  four  ounces. 
Shred  twelve  ounces,  that  is,  after  skin- 
ning, cut  the  almonds  lengthwise  into 
thin  shreds  by  dividing  each  almond 
into  at  least  five  or  six  long  shreds,  or 
cut  them  crosswise,  and  the  shreds  will 
be  shorter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  the  whites  separately,  and  then  beat 
them  together  with  the  sugar,  rubbing 
till  very  light  and  smooth.  Add  the  grat- 
ed zest  of  two  Louisiana  oranges  thf»-t 
has  been  rubbed  on  sugar,  and  then  in- 
corporate all  the  other  ingredients.  Roll 
tne  paste  out  into  balls  about  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Place  them  on  buttered  wafer 
paper  on  a  baking  sheet,  set  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  and  bake  to  a  light  color. 

Pistachio   Macaroons. 

Macarons   aux   Pistaches. 

4   Ounces   of   Bitter  Almonds. 

6   Ounces  of  Shredded   Pistachio   Kernels 

or  Peanuts. 

12  Ounces  of  Sifted  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  S'ugar. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  then  pound 
them  well.  Mix  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  till  thoroughly  pulverized.  Then 
mix  with  the  shredded  pistachio  kernels 
or  peanuts,  and  stir  well.  Fill  a  biscuit 
forcer  with  the  preparation,  and  drop 
the  macaroons  in  round  balls  about  the 
size  of  a  hickory  nut  upon  a  wafer  sheet 
of  paper,  and  spread  upon  a  baking 
sheet.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  very 
slightly  colored. 

Spanish    Macaroons. 

Macarons   aux   Pistaches. 

8  Ounces    of   Sweet  Almonds. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Yolks  of  12  Eggs. 

Grated  Zest  of  2  Oranges. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Boil  the  sugar  almost  to  a  syrup,  and 
then  add  the  pounded  almonds,  and  leC 
them  simmer  gently  for  five  minutes,  add 
the  flavoring  and  let  them  simmer  five 
minutes  longer  over  a  slow  fire  of  smoth- 
ered charcoal.  Stir  occasionally,  and  at 
the  end  of  ten  minutes  add  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  very  light.  Then  stir 
the  paste  over  the  kitchen  fire  with  a 
quickened  heat  until  it  becomes  firm  and 
compact.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and 
when  it  is  cool  roll  it  in  your  hands, 
which  should  be  slightly  greased  with 
oil  of  sweet  almonds.  Lay  them  out  In 
small  cakes  on  wafer  paper,  spread  on  a 
baking  sheet,  and  bake  at  a  quick  heat. 

CBOQUIGNOLES. 

8  Ounces  of  Sweet  Almonds. 
4  Ounces  of  Bitter  Almonds. 

Whites  of  4  Eggs. 
1 1-2  Pounds  of  Fine  Sugar. 

Scald,  skin  and  wash  and  dry  the  al- 
monds, as  directed  in  'Macarons,"  and 
then  pound  them  into  a  pulp,  adding  th« 
whites  of  the  eggs  gradually,  remember- 
ing always  that  they  must  be  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Then  work  in  the  suga'-, 
and  you  will  have  a  firm  paste.  Drop 
these  in  small  balls  upon  wafer  papo*', 
spread  upon  a  baking  sheet  of  tin  or  iron, 


in  distinct  and  separate  rows.  Pass  a 
little  brush,  moistened  with  water,  light- 
Iv  on  their  surface,  and  bake  in  a  very 
slack  oven  till  a  very  light  color. 

PETIT8    rOUBS. 

1  Pound  of  Sweet  Almonds. 

1  Ounce  of  Butter. 
2  Pounds  of  Sifted  Flour. 

The  Whites  of  8  Eggs. 
Royal  Icing  to  Garnish. 
Prepare  the  paste  as  above  directed, 
keeping  it  somewhat  stiffer  and  firmer, 
however.  Add  two  whites  of  eggs  of 
Royal  Icing  (see  recipe),  and  work  botli 
together  till  thoroughly  incorporated.  Fill 
the  biscuit  forcer,  and  push  the  maca- 
roons through  upon  buttered  wafer  paper, 
as  directed. 

Petits  Fours  must  be  baked  in  a  very 
moderate  oven.  Otherwise  the  excessive 
heat  will  cause  the  macaroons  to  run 
into  one  another  and  produce  a  useless 
mass.  The  Royal  Icing  necessitates  the 
moderated  oven.  The  Petits  Fours  are 
tEen  put  in  pretty  plaited  paper  cases. 

MASSEPAIN8    (Plain). 
Massepains    (Simple). 

12  Ounces  of  S'weet  Almonds. 
1    Ounce    of   Bitter  Almonds. 

The  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 
1 1-2  Pounds  of  Sifted  Sugar. 
Scald,  skin,  wash  and  dry  the  almonds. 
Then  pound  them  to  a  flour  m  a  mortar 
with  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  When  well 
pulverized,  beat  well.  Mix  in  the  sugar 
by  pounding  it,  and  then  .take  up  the 
paste  and  put  it  in  a  bowl.  Beat  well, 
keeping  it  very  firm.  If  soft,  add  sugar, 
to  render  firmer.  Strew  the  wafer  sheet, 
spread  on  a  baking  sheet,  with  white 
pulverized  sugar.  Cut  the  massepains 
into  lengths  of  two  or  three  inches,  and 
twist  them  into  fancy  shapes,  diamonds, 
hearts,  rings,  triangles,  etc.,  on  the  wafer 
sheet.  Then  set  in  the  oven,  and  bake 
to  a  very  light  color. 

Massepains    Sontfles. 

12  Ounces  of  Sweet  Almonds. 

1  Ounce  of  Bitter  Almonds. 
11-2  Pounds  of  Sifted  Sugar. 

1  Ounce  of  Vanilla  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

1  White  of  Egg  Royal  Icing. 

Prepare  the  paste  exactly  as  above, 
and  when  you  take  it  up  in  the  bowl 
add  the  Royal  Icing,  keeping  the  pasta 
firm.  Spread  the  massepains  upon  wafer 
sheets,  using  only  the  ring  shape,  and 
bake  in  a  slack  oven  till  a  very  light 
col'or. 

Strawberry    Massepains. 

Massepains    a   la   Fralse. 

1    Pound    of   Sweet  Almonds. 

8    Ounces    of    Sugar. 

6   Ounces   of   Crushed  Strawberries. 

Pound  the  almonds,  and  then  proceed 
as  in  plain  Massepains,  adding  the  straw- 
berries after  you  will  have  strained  them 
through  a  sieve. 

Any  kind  of  fruits  or  marmalades  may 
be  used  in  this  manner  for  Fruit  Masse- 
pains. 

SOTTFFiES. 

2  Pounds  of  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 
1  Ounce  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 

To  two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar  add 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  ounce  of 
Orange    Flower    Water.     Make    o€    all    a 


211 


firm,  consistent  paste,  adding  more  sugar, 
if  necessary.  Roll  out  on  a  sheet  of  pa- 
per, sprinkled  with  sugar,  and  cut  Into 
little  pieces,  which  you  will  form  into 
balls  about  the  size  of  a  nut.  Place  them 
on  a  wafer  sheet  on  a  halting  sheet  at  a 
distance  of  two  inches,  so  that  they  will 
not  touch  one  another,  should  they  run. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Almonds   Souffles. 

Amandes  Souffles. 

1   Pound   of   Sweet  Almonds. 

The  White  of  1  Egg. 
12  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Blanch,  skin,  wash  and  dry  one  pound 
of  sweet  almonds,  and  then  cut  them 
into  very  small  pieces.  Add  the  white  of 
one  egg,  beaten  to  a  thick  froth,  and 
twelve  ounces  of  pcwdered  sugar.  \Vhen 
well  mixed  drop  upon  sheets  of  white 
paper,  and  bake  to  a  very  light  color  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Pistachio  Souffles. 

Souffles  aux  Pistaches. 

10  Ounces   of  Pistachio   Kernels  or   Pea- 
nuts. 
1 1-2  Pounds  of  Fine  Sugar. 

Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

4  Drops  Essence  of  Roses. 

2  Whites  of  Eggs  of  Royal  Icing. 

(See  Recipe  Royal  Icing.) 

If  you  cannot  procure  the  Pistachio 
Kernels  use  Peanuts,  which  are  called 
"Pistaches"  by  the  Creoles. 

Scald,  skin,  wash  and  dry  the  nistachios 
or  peanuts.  Pound  them  with  two  ounces 
of  sugar,  adding  occasionally  some  of  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  until  reduced  to  a 
pulp.  Then  add  all  the  sugar,  gradually 
working  it  into  the  paste  on  a  marble 
slab,  being  careful  to  have  the  slab  and 
the  hands  very  clean.  Roll  out  paste 
with  sugar  to  the  thickness  of  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  on  the  slab.  Spread  the 
Icing  evenly  over,  and  cut  into  various 
fanciful  shapes.  Place  the  cakes  on  the 
sheet  wafer  or  lay  on  baking  sheet,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  heat  to  a  very  light  color. 

Bose    Souffles. 

Souffles  a  la  Rose. 

2  Pounds  Powdered  White  Sugar. 
The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

1  Ounce  of  Orange  Flower  W^ater. 
A  Pinch  of  Carmine  Powder. 
To  two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar  add 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  ounce 
of  Orange  Flower  Water  and  a  little 
pinch  of  Carmine  Powder.  Make  of  all 
a  firm,  consistent  paste,  adding  more 
sugar,  if  necessary.  Roll  out  on  a  sheet 
of  paper,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  then  cut 
the  paste  into  little  pieces,  which  you  will 
form  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  nut. 
Place  them  on  a  wafer  sheet  on  a  baking 
sheet  at  a  distance  of  two  inches  apart, 
so  that  they  will  not  touch  one  another, 
should  they  run.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Almond  and  Peanut  Biscuit. 

Biscuits  aux  Amandes  et  aux  Pistaches. 

4  Ounces  of  Sweet  Almonds. 
4  Ounces  of  Pistachio  Kernels  or  Peanuts. 
4  Eggs.  8  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 
Blanch,  peel  and  pound  the  almonds 
and  pistachio  kernels  or  peanuts  in  a 
mortar  till  finely  pulverized,  adding  the 
white  of  an  egg,  to  keep  the  almonds 
from  turning  oily.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  then  add  the 
yolks,  beaten  separately  to  a  cream  with 
the    sugar.      Beat    well,    and    incorporate 


thoroughly.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  sifted  well,  and  mix  well.  Place 
in  small  cakes  on  wafer  sheets  of  paper, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  a  very 
light   color. 

Chocolate  Biscuits. 

Biscuits  au  Chocolat. 

6  Fresh  Creole  Eggs. 

1   Ounce   of   Powdered   French    Chocolate. 

4  Ounces   of  Flour. 

10  Ounces  of  Pulverized  Sugar. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  chocolate, 
and  mix  well.  Then  add  the  flour,  al- 
ternating with  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract,  and  bake 
upon  wafer  sheets  in  small  cakes  to  a 
light  color. 

Cinnamon  Biscuits. 

Biscuits  a  la  Canelle. 

6  Fresh  Creole  Eggs. 

1   Ounce   of  Powdered   French   Chocolate. 

4  Ounces   of  Flour. 

10  Ounces  of  Pulverized  Sugar. 

Ground   Cinnamon. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon  Extract. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
cinnamon  to  a  cream.  Add  the  chocolate, 
and  mix  well.  Then  add  the  flour,  al- 
ternating with  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract,  and  bake 
upon  wafer  sheets  in  small  cakes  to  a 
light  color. 

Citron   Biscuits. 

Biscuits  au  Citron. 

6  Fresh  Creole  Eggs. 

The  Zest  of  1  Citron. 

4  Ounces  of  Flour. 

12  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  the  flour  gradually,  and  the  juice 
of  the  lemon  and  citron  zest,  and  beat 
well.  Bake  on  paper  sheets  in  the  form 
of  small  wafers,  very  thinly  spread,  in  a 
moderate  oven  to  a  light  color. 

Creole    Biecnlts. 

Biscuits  a  la  Creole. 

4    Ounces    of    Grated    Lemon. 

4   Ounces   of  Orange   Flower  Marmalade. 

4  Ounces  of  Apricot  or  Peach  Marmalade 

The  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 

Mix  the  fruits  and  lemon  thoroughly 
together,  and  then  add  three  ounces  of 
white  pulverized  sugar  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place 
the  mixture  in  small  cakes  on  white 
paper,  and  bake  lightly.  Then  cover 
■with  sugar  beaten  with  the  white  of 
an  egg,  in  meringue  form,  and  bake  to  % 
light  brown. 

Filbert    Biscuits. 
Biscuits  aux  Avelines. 

4    Ounces    of    Sweet  Almonds. 

4   Ounces   of   Filberts. 

The-  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 
8  Ounces  of  Powdered   Sugar. 

Blanch,  peel  and  pound  the  almond 
and  filbert  kernels  in  a  mortar  till  finely 
pulverized,  adding  the  white  of  an  egg, 
to  keep  the  almonds  from  turning  oily. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  froth, 
and  then  add  the  yolks,  beaten  separately 
to  a  cream  with  the  sugar,  incorporate 
thoroughly,  and  beat  well.  Add  four 
tablespoonfuls   of   flour,   sifted   well,   and 


212 


mix  well.  Place  in  small  cakes  on  wafer 
sheets  of  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  a  very  light  color. 

liemoiL    Biscuit. 

Buscuit  au   Citron. 

6  Fresh  Creole  Eggs. 
The  Zest  of  1  Lemon. 
4  Ounces  of  Flour. 
12  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 
The  Juice  of  1  Lemon  or  1  Tablespoonful 
of  Lemon   Extract. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  the  flour  gradually,  and  the  juice 
and  zest  of  a  lemon,  and  beat  well. 
Bake  on  paper  sheets  in  the  forffi  of 
small  wafers,  very  thinly  spread,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  to  a  light  color. 

Orange   Biscuits. 

Biscuits  a  I'Orange. 

6  PYesh  Creole  Eggs. 

The  Zest  of  1  Orange. 

4  Ounces  of  Flour. 

12  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

The  Juice  of  1  Orange. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  the  flour  gradually,  and  the  juice 
and  zest  of  the  orange,  and  beat  well. 
Bake  on  paper  sheets,  in  the  form  of 
small  wafers,  very  thinly  spread,  in 
a  moderate  oven,  to  a  light  color. 

Vanilla   Biscuits. 

Buscuits  a  la  Vanille. 

6  Fresh  Ci-eole  Eggs. 

1  Ounce  of  Vanilla  Sugar. 

4  Ounces  of  Flour. 

10  Ounces  of  Pulverized  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  chocolate, 
and  mix  well.  Then  add  the  flour,  al- 
ternating with  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful of  Vanilla  Extract,  atfj  bake 
upon  wafer  sheets  in  small  cakes  to  a 
light    color. 

FrascatI  Oroqnantes. 

Croquantes  Frascati. 

8  Ounces  of  Flour. 
6  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

2  Ounces  of  Ground  Almonds. 
2  Whole  Eggs  and  3  Yolks. 
1    Ounce    Aniseed. 
Break   the   eggs   into  a  bowl,   and   beat 
light,   and   add   the   sugar  and  beat  very 
light;     add     the     almonds,     pounded     to 
a    powder,     and    the    aniseed.      Beat    all 
together  till  well  incorporated.     Add  the 
flour  and  beat  thoroughly.     Have  a  mar 
ble   slab   clean   and    dry.     Roll   the   pasts 
out   on   the   slab   in   the   form   of  a   long, 
thick   rope.     Then   take   a  knife   and   cut 
it  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  guinea 
egg.      Roll    each    between    the    palms    of 
your    hands,    and    shape    them    into    oval 
balls.      Have   a    buttered    sheet   of    paper 
on    a    baking   sheet.      Make    a    slight    in- 
cision   into    each    cake    by    pressing    the 
back    of    the    knife    across    the    surface. 
Brush   the    egg   over   them,    and   sprinkle 
lightly  with   granulated  sugar,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  heat  to  a  light  color. 
Creole    Wafers. 
Gaufres   a  la   Creole. 

9  Ounces  of  Flour. 

4  Ounces  of  Sifted   Sugar.     8  Eggs. 
1  Wine-glassful  of  Noyau. 

1  Pint  Whipped  Cream. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla. 

A   Pinch    of  Salt. 


Beat  the  sugar  and  yo'lks  of  the  eggs  to 
a  cream.  Add  the  Noyau  and  salt.  Va- 
nilla and  flour,  and  incorporate  thor- 
oughly till  light.  Then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  the  cream.  Mix  all  lightly 
together,  taking  great  care  that  all  ar* 
well  mixed.  Bake  very,  very  light  in 
wafer  irons.  The  irons  should  be  heated 
over  a  clear  charcoal  fire,  and  when  hot 
brush  inside  with  a  little  clarified  butter. 
A  large  spoonful  of  butter  should  be 
poured  into  the  undersheet  of  the  wafer 
irons,  then  close  in,  and  bake  to  a  golden 
brown  color.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar. 
These  wafers  are  delicious,  handed 
around  with  ices. 

Ginger    Wafers. 

Gaufres  au  Gingembre. 

1  Large  Spoon  of  Ground  Ginger. 

4  Ounces  of  Molasses. 

8  Ounces  of  Flour. 

8  Ounces  of  Sifted  Sugar. 

Whites  of  4  Eggs. 

1-2    Pint    of    Cream. 

1  Wineglassful  of  Brandy. 

1  Tablespoonful  gf  Vanilla  Sugar. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  cream 
and  add  it  to  the  flour  and  milk,  salt  and 
sugar,  molasses  and  ginger.  Work  all 
well  together  very  light  in  a  bowl  until 
you  have  a  smooth  batter.  Add  tha 
Brandy  and  Ginger  Extract  and  beat  vig- 
orously ten  minutes  longer.  Have  ready 
the  wafer  irons  and  a  ctear  charcoal  fire. 
Brush  the  irons  with  butter  and  place  tha 
wafers  within  and  bake  on  both  sides  to 
a  light  fawn  color. 

French    Wafers. 

Gaufres    Francalses. 

8  Ounces  of  Flour. 

8  Ounces  of  Sifted  Sugar. 
Whites  of  4  Eggs. 
1-2  Pint  of  Cream. 

1  W^ineglassful  of  Brandy. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Sugar. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a,  crea<n 
and  add  to  the  flour,  milk,  salt  and 
sugar.  Work  all  together  very  light  In 
a  bowl,  until  you  have  a  very  smooth 
batter.  Add  the  Brandy  and  beat  vigor- 
ously ten  minutes  longer.  Have  ready 
the  wafer  irons  and  a  clear  charcoij 
fire.  Brush  the  irons  with  butter  and 
place  the  wafers  within  and  bake  on  both 
sides  to  a  light  brown  color.  If  desired, 
the  wafers  may  be  rolled  into  fancy 
shapes. 

Spanish   Wafers. 

Gaufres  Espagnoles. 

9  Ounces  of  Flour. 

2  Ounces  of  Sifted  Sugar. 
1-2  Pint  of  Chocolate  Water. 

12  Drops  of  Essence  of  Vanilla.     2  Eggs. 
2   Gills    of   Cream. 

Prepare  the  chocolate  water  by  dis- 
solving well  two  ounces  of  French  choc- 
olate in  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Place  the  sugar,  vanilla,  eggs  and  cream 
in  a  pan,  work  all  vigorously  into  a 
smooth,  light  batter,  add  the  cold  Choc- 
olate Water,  beat  all  together  well  for 
ten  minutes  longer.  Then  bake  the 
wafers,  as  directed  in  recipe  for  French 
Wafers,  and  curl  in  the  form  of  cornu- 
copias while  still  warm  and  able  to 
retain    impression. 

Cream    Puffs. 

Choux  a,  la  Creme. 

1    Cup    of    Flour. 

1-2   Cup   of  Butter. 

4  Eggs.       1  Cup  of  Water. 


213 


Set  the  water  to  boil,  and  while  boil- 
ing, stir  in  the  butter.  Then  add  the 
flour,  and  stir  continually  till  the  paste 
leaves  the  sides  of  the  saucepan.  Set  the 
mixture  to  cool.  When  cool,  stir  one 
after  another,  the  three  eggs  in,  with- 
out beating  them.  After  adding  the 
last  egg,  beat  very  vigorously  for  about 
four  minutes;  then  drop  by  tablespoon- 
fuls  on  buttered  tins,  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 
Watch  carefully  so  that  they  will  not 
burn.  Wlien  cold  make  an  opening  in- 
side, through  the  side  of  the  paste,  with  a 
sharp  knife,  and  fill  it  with  the  follow- 
ing   custard: 

1    Cup    of    Milk. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Milk. 

3  Eggs.  1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Cornstarch. 
Rub  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  water 
and  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk.  Let 
It  boil  three  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Beat  the  eggs,  without  separating,  and 
the  sugar  till  light,  and  add  to  the  boil- 
ing milk.  Add  the  vanilla,  stirring  all 
well.  Fill  the  cakes  and  set  away  to 
cool. 

Chocolate   Sclairs. 

Eclairs   du  Chocolat. 

1    Cup    of    Flour.  1    Cup    of    Water. 

4  Eggs.       1-2  Cup  of  Water. 

2  Ounces  of  Chocolate. 
4  Ounces  of  Powdered  Sugar. 
Make  a  Cream  Puff  Paste  as  above. 
Put  into  a  tube  or  a  pastry  bag  and 
press  out  upon  well-buttered  tins  in 
the  shape  of  lady  Fingers.  This  will 
give  the  Eclairs  the  right  shECpe,  making 
them  about  five  inches  long.  Set  them  to 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes.  If  the  oven  is  of  the  right  tem- 
perature, and  the  cakes  are  properly 
baked,  they  will  be  hollow  within  and 
very  daintily  crusted  without.  Fill  in 
with  a  mixture  made  by '  melting  two 
ounces  of  chocolate  and  four  ounces  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Tou  may  ice  by  dipping  one  end  into 
the  icing,  and  then  setting  away  to  dry 
The  Eclairs  may  be  filled  with  pre- 
served fruits,  Orange  Icing,  Whipped 
Cream,    or   any    Marmalade. 

Pineapple    Eclairs. 

Eclairs  a  I'Ananas. 

1  Cup  of  Flour.       1  Cup  of  Water. 

4   Eggs.       1-2   Cup   of   Water. 

2  Ounces  of  Preserved  Pineapple  or 

Pineapple   Mousse. 

Pineapple  Eclairs  are  made  in  the  same 
manner  as  Chocolate  Eclairs  (see  re- 
cipe), only  they  are  filled  in  with  pre- 
served pineapple  or  Pineapple  Mousse. 

Cup  Cake. 

Petits    Gateaux. 

1  Cup  of  Butter.     2  Cups  of  Sugar. 
4  Cups  of  Flour.     1  Cup  of  Sour  Cream. 

3  Eggs.     1    Tablespoonful    of   Brandy 
1     Tablespoonful     of     Rose     or     Vanilla 

Extract. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
and  then  add  the  cream.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  sift  in  gradually  the  flour, 
beating  thoroughly.  Add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the 
brandy  and  rose  water.  Now  dissolve 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  In  a  little 
sweet  milk  and  add,  being  careful  that 
there  are  no  lumps  in  the  soda.  Beat 
well    for    a    few    minutes    and    bake    at 


once,  in  small  tins  or  cups,  which  you 
will  grease  well  with  butter  and  only 
half  fill  with  the  cake  batter. 

Jelly    Calie. 

Gateau   aux   Confitures. 

1  Cup  of  Butter.     2  Cups  of  Sugar. 

4    Cups    of    Flour. 

1  Cup  of  Sour  Cream. 

3  Eggs.      1  Tablespoonful  of  Brandy. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

3  Ounces  of  Currant,  Grape  or  any  Jelly 

Desired. 

Prepare  the  batter  exactly  as  for  Cup 
Cake  or  Sponge  Cake,  butter  the  small 
tins  and  pour  in  the  batter  in  such 
thin  layers  as  to  allow  the  cakes  to 
be  just  a  half  inch  thick  when  baked. 
Let  them  bake  for  a  few  minutes  to  a 
light  brown,  and  as  they  are  taken  from 
the  oven  lay  them  on  the  table  and 
spread  a  layer  of  Currant  or  Grape  Jelly 
between;  then  add  alternate  layers  of 
cake  and  jelly,  reserving  the  prettiest 
cakes  for  the  top  layers.  Do  not  put 
Jelly  on  this.  Ice  or  powder  with  sifted 
sugar. 

Queen   Cake. 

Gateau  a  la  Reine. 

1   Pound   of   Flour. 

4  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

1  Pound  of  Currants.    1  Pound  of  Butter. 

1  Teacupful   of  Cream.     8  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Rose  Water. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream, 
and  then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs.  Now  add  the  cream,  and  then 
one-half  of  the  flour,  and  next  one-half 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  the  remainder  of  the 
flour,  into  which  you  will  have  dredged 
the  currants  that  have  been  well-'washed 
cleansed  and  picked  and  dried.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  add  the  remainder  of  the 
whites  and  the  rose  water.  Beat  as  you 
would  a  pound  cake.  Then  pour  Into 
small,  buttered  tins  and  bake  immediately 
to  a  light  brown. 

Tea   Cakes, 

Gateau    de    The. 

1   Pound   of  Flour. 

1-2    Pound    of    Butter. 

4   Eggs. 

6  Ounces  of  Powdered   Sugar. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sour  Milk. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and  incorpor- 
ate thoroughly.  Add  the  milk,  and  then 
gradually  add  the  flour,  making  a  light 
soft  dough.  Mix  all  well  together,  and 
roll  the  paste  out  very  thin.  Cut  into 
rounds  or  squares,  and  put  into  a  slightly 
buttered  baking  pan.  Bake  to  a  bright 
yellow,  and  serve  as  needed.  Some  brush 
the  tops  of  the  cakes  with  beaten  eggs, 
and  sprinkle  the  tops  with  raisins  or 
currants,  well  seeded  and  washed  and 
dried. 

Cocoannt    Ftngerg. 
Biscuits   a   la  Cuiller  au   Coco. 

4  Ounces  of  Butter. 
4  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

3  Eggs.       2   Ounces   of  Floui'. 

4  Ounces  of  Grated  Cocoanut. 

Beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  to- 
gether for  five  minutes,  blending  thor- 
oughly. Then  add  the  flour,  and  im- 
mediately after  the  grated  cocoanut. 
Beat  well,  and  have  ready  buttered  tins. 
Divide  the  mixture  into  fingers  of  about 


214 


four  or  five  inches  in  length,  bake  In  a 
moderately. quick  oven  for  thirty  minutes, 
and  when  cool  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

l^ady    Fingers. 

Biscuits    it    la   Cuiller. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

4     Ounces     of     Powdered     White     Sugar. 

5   Eggs. 

Put  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
into  a  bowl  and  beat  thoroughly  till  very 
light.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  add  the  flour.  Mix  well 
and  add  immediately  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Beat  all  together  gently  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  the  preparation  is  ready 
for    baking. 

Have  ready  a  long  sheet  of  paper, 
spread  on  a  baking  tin.  Take  a  table- 
spoon and  drop  the  batter  along  the 
paper,  in  lengths  of  four  or  five  inches, 
being  careful  to  leave  an  empty  space 
of  an  inch  between  each  cake;  set  to 
bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  The  cakes 
niust  not  spread  or  rise.  If  they  rise, 
the  oven  is  too  hot,  and  if  they  spread, 
you  may  be  sure  the  oven  is  too  cool. 
Bake  to  a  very  light  brown,  for  twenty 
minutes,   in   a  moderate   oven. 

Ginger   Nnts. 

Petits  Gateaux  au  Gingembre. 

2   Pounds    of   Flour.     2   Eggs. 

1  Pint  of  Molasses. 

1-2    Pound    of    Brown    Sugar. 

1-2   Pound   of  Butter.       A  Pinch   of  Salt 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Ginger. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Soda. 

1-2    Pint    of    Milk    or    Water. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream; 

work  in  the  flour  and  mix  well;  add  the 

molasses    and    mix    well.      Then    add    the 

milk,   into  which  you  will  have  dissolved 

the  soda  thoroughly,  and  beat  well;   add 

the  ginger  and   continue  working  lightly 

till  thoroughly  mixed.    Then  roll  out  and 

cut  in  various  fanciful  shapes  and  bake 

to    a    light    brown. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

Gateaux    Sees    au    Gingembre. 

2  Cups  of  Molasses. 

1   Cup   of   Lard    or  Butter. 

1    Cup    of    Sugar. 

1-2   Cup   of   Sour  Cream. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Ground  Ginger. 

2  Eggs.  21-2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Soda. 

Flour  Sufficient  to   Roll   Thick. 

Mix   all   the   ingredents   as   above,   only 

making    the    batter    slightly    stifter,    and 

cut    into    fancy    shapes    and    bake    in    a 

quick    oven. 

Jumbles, 

Malee-Creole. 

1  Pound  of  Butter. 
3-4  Pound   of   Flour.     4   Eggs. 
1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1    Tablespoonful    of    Rose    Water. 
1-2  Grated  Nutmeg. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Add    the    eggs,    thoroughly    beaten,    and 
then  add  the  Rose  Water  and  the  nutmeg. 
Gradually  add  the   flour,   and   beat  weli 
Beat    till    very    light    before    adding    tho 
flour.   Dust  a   paper   on   a   baking  sheet 
with  sugar,  instead  of  flour,  and  roll  out 
the    paste    to    about    one-eighth    of    an 
inch  in  thickness.     Then  use  a  small  cut- 
ter  with    a    round    center,    and    take    the 
centers    out,    thus    forming    pretty    rings. 
Bake    in    a    moderate    oven    till    a    light 
brown.  Take  them  out  and  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  them. 


Madeleines. 

5   Eggs.     1-2  Pound   of  Powdered   Sugar. 

1-2  Pound  of  Sifted  Flour. 

1-2   Pound    of    Butter,    Washed   and 

Drained. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Grated    Rind    of    a    Lemon. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream 
and  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  lemon 
rind  and  the  vanilla,  and  beat  till  very, 
very  light.  Then  add  tne  flour,  beating 
constantly,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Turn  into  but- 
tered tins,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till 
a  delicate  brown.     Serve  cold. 

Pop-Overs. 

Vitement     Fait. 

1    Pint    of    Milk. 

1   Pint   of   Flour.     3  Eggs. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately 
till  very  light  and  frothy.  Stir  in  the 
unskimmed  milk  and  the  flour  that  has 
been  twice  sifted  with  the  baking  pow- 
der. Add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth;  pour  the  mixture  into 
buttered  cake  tins;  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
till  a  light  brown,  and  serve  either  hot 
or    cold. 

Anise    Drops, 

Gateau    d*Anis. 

3    Cups    of      Sugar.      6    Eggs. 

1    Quart   of   Flour. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Essence  of  Anise. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  for  about 
half  an  hour.  Add  the  flour  graduallj, 
and  the  essence.  Beat  well.  Have  ready 
buttered  sheets  of  tin,  and  drop  the  mix- 
ture from  the  spoon,  and  bake  to  a 
delicate  brown. 

Spice   Drops. 

Biscuits    d'Eplces. 

The  Yolks  of  3  Eggs. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sweet  Milk. 

3    Cups    of    Flour.      1    Cup    of    Molasses. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1   Ground  Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Add  the  molasses  and  the  milk.  Blend 
well,  add  the  spices  and  the  nutmeg  and 
lemon  extract,  and  then  add  the 
flour,  sifted  with  the  baking  powder. 
Beat  well  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  then 
drop  on  tins  lined  with  buttered  paper. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  a  delicate 
brown. 

Creole    Cookies. 

Biscuits  a  la  Creole. 

1  Teaspoonful  each  of  Ground  Cloves  and 

Cinnamon. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Extract. 

2    Cups    of    Powdered    Sugar. 

1  Cup  of  Sweet  Milk. 

The  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Lemon  Extract. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

Flour  Sufficient   to   Make  a   Soft  Batter. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream; 
add  the  milk  ahd  the  baking  powder, 
and  gradually  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  the 
batter  hard  for  ten  minutes,  after  adding 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  nice  soft 
batter.  Pour  into  baking  tins,  and  bake 
to  a  delicate  brown.  Wlien  cold  lee 
with    Plain    Icing.       (See    recipe.) 


215 


Lemoii    Cookies. 

Biscuits  au  Citron. 

6    Eggs.      1    Cup    ot    Butter. 
3    Cups    of    Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful    of    Lemon    Extract. 

Beat  tile  yollcs  of  tlie  eggs  and  butter 
to  a  cream.  Add  tlie  sugar,  and  beat 
weli.  Add  tlie  extract  of  iemon,  and 
tlien  tile  wliites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  frotJi.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  malce 
a  nice  dougii,  just  stiff  enougli  to  mold, 
and  tlien  roll  tliin,  and  bake  in  a  quiclc 
oven   to   a   very   light  brown. 

Molasses    Cockles. 

Biscuits  a  la  Melasse. 

2  Cups  of  Molasses. 
1    Cup    of    Butter. 

2  Eggs.       2  Teaspoonfuls   of   Soda. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Ginger. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Cloves. 
Melt  the  molasses.  Beat  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add,  mixing 
in  the  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  boiling  water.  Add  the  ginger  and 
the  ground  cloves.  Take  off  the  fire, 
and  beat  till  cool.  Then  add  the  eggs, 
beaten  well,  and  flour  sufficient  to  make 
a  nice,  stiff  dough,  just  stiff  enough  to 
roll.  Cut  into  small  cakes,  and  bake 
in   a    quick    oven   to    a   delicate    brown. 

MERINGUES. 

In  order  to  make  meringues  properly 
one  should  have  a  meringue  board  of 
well-seasoned  hard  wood.  This  board 
should  be  cut  with  rounded  corners, 
and  of  a  size  convenient  to  the  oven. 
It  ought  to  be  about  one  and  a  half 
inches  in  thickness.  While  baking.  Mer- 
ingues must  always  remain  soft  under- 
neath. To  accomplish  this,  dampen  the 
board  thoroughly  with  water  before  plac- 
ing the  bands  of  paper  upon  it.  In 
this  way  the  Meringues  are  prevented 
from  receiving  heat  in  sufficient  volume 
to  render  them  hard  underneath. 

Creole  Merlngraes. 

Meringues  a  la  Creole. 
1  Pint  of  Sifted  White  Sugar. 
The  Whites  of  12  Eggs. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff,  snowy  froth, 
and  then  gradually  add  the  sugar  and 
vanilla,  beating  until  the  mixture  is  stiff 
enough  to  cut  with  a  knife.  Then  cut 
some  stout  sheets  of  foolscap  paper  into 
strips  measuring  at  least  two  inches  in 
width,  or,  if  you  wish  to  make  the 
meringues  larger,  simply  place  the  sheet 
of  paper,  slightly  buttered,  on  the  table 
Take  a  tablespoon  and  gather  up  the 
meringue  mixture  as  nearly  as  possible 
in  the  shape  of  an  egg,  and  working  it 
towards  the  side  of  the  bowl  to  give 
It  this  shape,  and  then  drop  sloplngly 
from  the  spoon  upon  the  strips  of  paper 
at  a  distance  of  at  least  an  inch  apart. 
Draw  the  edge  of  the  spoon  very  sharply 
around  the  edge  of  the  meringue,  to 
give  it  a  smooth,  round  siiape,  resembling 
an  egg.  When  all  the  rows  are  filled, 
sprinkle  sifted  sugar  over  them,  and 
let  them  remain  in  this  state  for  about 
three  minutes.  Then  take  hold  of  the 
strips  at  either  end,  and  shake  lightly, 
to  remove  all  excess  of  sugar.  Place  the 
strips  in  rows  about  one  inch  apart  on 
the  wet  board  or  baking  tin  (the  board 
Is  much  better),  and  as  soon  as  the 
sugar  begins  to  dissolve  slightly  on  their 
surface,  push  them  into  the  oven,  whioli 
must  be  at  a  very  moderate  heat,  and 
bake     them     a     very     light    fawn     color. 


Watch  constantly,  that  tKey  may  not 
burn.  When  the  meringues  are  done, 
remove  each  one  very  carefully  and 
separately  from  the  paper.  Then  use  a 
small  dessert  spoon,  if  you  desire  to  fill 
the  meringues,  scoop  out  the  soft  white 
part,  and,  with  the  outer  side  of  the 
bowl  of  the  spoon,  smooth  the  interior  of 
the  meringues.  Then  place  them  with  the 
rounded  side  downward  on  the  baking 
tin  in  the  oven  to  dry  for  a  few  min- 
utes. When  thoroughly  crisp,  without 
browning,  place  them  between  sheets  of 
paper  in  a  dry  place.  When  using 
meringues  for  desserts,  etc.,  garnish  the 
interior  with  whipped  cream,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  flavored  with  vanilla, 
orange,  lemon,  orange  flower  water,  or 
any  kind  of  fancy  liqueur;  stick  the  two 
halves  together  lightly  and  serve.  Merin- 
gues may  be  kept  for  some  time  In 
their  dry  shell  state,  and  filled  when 
ready  to  use.  In  making  them  for  im- 
mediate family  use,  simply  drop  the 
mixture  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  paper, 
dust  with  the  sugar,  wait  for  three  min- 
utes, fan  or  blow  off  all  excess  of 
sugar,  and  then  place  them  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 
When  dry,  carefully  remove  the  meringue 
from  the  paper,  after  they  have  cooled, 
brush  the  bottoms  slightly  with  the  white 
of  an  egg,  beaten  to  a  froth,  stick  two 
meringues  together,  put  away  to  dry,  and 
serve  when  needed. 

Cream-Iced    Meringues. 

Meringues  a  la  Creme  Glacee. 

1    Pound    of    Sifted    Wliite    Sugar. 

The    Whites    of   12    Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Vanilla   Essence. 

3  Ounces  of  Stiff  Whipped  Cream. 

1-2  Cup  of  Transparent  Icing. 

Cream-Iced  Meringues  should  be  mad< 
much  smaller  than  the  ordinary  Mer- 
ingues— about  the  size  of  a  bird's  egg. 
Proceed  as  above,  and  fill  with  stiff, 
whipped  cream,  taking  great  care  when 
filling  that  none  of  the  cream  shall 
ooze  from  between  the  two  halves  of 
the  Meringues  after  they  have  been 
stuck  together.  If  it  should,  wipe  it 
off  very  carefully.  Wlien  well-filled, 
hold  each  Meringue  separately  on  a 
silver  fork,  and  dip  them  all  over  in 
"Transparent  Icing"  (see  recipe),  and 
let  them  dry.  These  Meringues  are  de- 
licious   desserts. 

Cream-Iced  Meringues  With  Preserves. 

Meringues  Glacees  aux  Confitures. 

1    Pound    of    Sifted    White    Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  12  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Essence. 

3    Ounces    of    Currant,    Orange    or    Any 

PrcscrvGS. 

1-2   Cup    of   Transparent  Icing. 

Prepare  as  in  Meringues  a  la  Creole, 
or  as  above,  only  spread  some  preserves 
thinly  inside  the  Meringues  before  gar- 
nishing them  with  the  cream,  and  then 
ice  with  Transparent  Icing.  (See  recipe 
Transparent  Icing.) 

Biscuits    Glaces    aux    Confitures. 

9    Eggs.      1    Pound    of    White    Pulverized 
Sugar. 

1-2    Pound    Flour. 

The    Juice    of    1    Lemon. 

1    Cup    of    Jam    of    Any    Kind    Desired. 


216 


These  are  elegant  cakes  and  enhance 
the  most  fashionable  dessert.  Make  a 
strong-  cake  or  cup  cake  (see  recipes), 
and  bake  on  a  baking  sheet  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  When 
cold,  cut  up  into  fanciful  shapes,  trim 
the  edges  neatly  with  a  very  sharp  knife, 
and  be  careful  to  brush  off  the  last 
particle  of  crumbs  that  may  adhere; 
carefully  spread  the  upper  part  and 
sides  of  the  biscuit  with  apricot,  peach, 
raspberry  or  any  jam.  Then  hold  one 
at  a  time  on  a  silver  fork,  very  care- 
fully, and  with  a  spoon  pour  over  Trans- 
parent Chocolate  Icing,  around  sides  and 
over  the  surface  of  the  biscuit.  Then 
carefully  lay  it  upon  a  wire  tray,  resting 
upon  a  baking  sheet.  Dry  the  biscuit 
in  a  very  moderate  oven  for  about  five 
minutes. 


Marbled    Glacees. 

Biscuits    Panaches    aux    Confitures, 

9    Eggs.      1    Pound    of   White    Pulverized 

Sugar, 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

1   Cup   of   Mixed   Preserved   Fruits. 

Prepare  the  cake  as  directed  in  the  pre- 
ceding recipe.  Then  place  on  the  baking 
sheet.  Drop  different-sized  small  bits 
of  fine  preserves,  orange,  apricot,  dam- 
son, red  currant,  etc.,  on  the  biscuit, 
and  spread  smoothly,  so  as  to  form  a 
beautifully  marbled  pattern.  Then  cut 
out  the  cakes  in  any  fanciful  design. 
Proceed  as  above  to  cover  with  Trans- 
parent Icing,  and  dry  in  a  moderate 
oven    for    five    minutes. 


CHAPTER  XL. 
ICINGS  FOB    CAK£S. 


Glaces  pour 

Read  carefully  the  directions  given  for 
icing  cakes  in  the  beginning  of  the 
chapter  on  "Cakes."  (See  recipe.)  Then 
proceed  to  make  icings  according  to  taste, 
as   follows: 

Plain    Icing:. 

Glace. 

The    Whites     of    2    Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lemon  Juice. 

1     Pound     of     White     Pulverized     Sugar. 

Essence  of  Rose,  Orange  or  Lemon. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  sift 
in  gradually  the  sugar,  beating  all  the 
while,  using  good  judgment  as  to  suf- 
ficient quantity,  and  adding  in  the  be- 
ginning a  tablespoonful  of  Rose  or  Lem- 
on Essence  or  Orange  Flower  Water 
Beat  very,  very  light,  till  sufficient  almost 
to  stand  alone.  Have  ready  in  another 
bowl  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  begin 
to  lay  on  the  icing  in  a  thin  coa», 
over  the  cake  with  a  knife,  occasionally 
dipping  the  knife  into  the  lemon  juice, 
to  make  a  nice,  smooth  icing.  When  it 
is  covered  with  this  coat,  set  In  the 
oven  or  in  the  sun  to  harden,  when 
it  will  be  ready  for  the  next  coat. 
Add  another  coating  as  before.  This 
coat  will  be  much  smoother  and  whiter 
than  the  first.  If  you  wish  to  make 
ornamental  icing  it  will  be  necessary 
to  have  piping  tubes.  (See  General  Di- 
rections   for    Icing.) 

Almond  Icing. 

Glace  aux  Amandes. 

3    Cups    of    Sugar. 

1     Pound     of    Almonds,      Blanched     and 

Pounded,    to    a    Paste. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs,  stir  in  the  almonds 
and  sugar,  and  then  proceed  to  Ice  ac- 
cording to  general  directions.  (See  above 
or  recipe.) 

Ghocolate   Iclngr. 

Glace  au  Chocolat. 

2  Ounces  of  Chocolate. 

2    Cups    of    Sugar. 

The  Whites  of  3  Eggs. 

1    Teaspoonful   of  Vanilla   Extract. 

Melt  two  ounces  of  chocolate  In  a 
little  boiling  water.  Add  two  cups  sugar 
and  stir  till  smooth.  Stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  "Vanilla  Extract,  and  pro- 
ceed  as   In   Plain   Icing.      (See  recipe.) 


Gateaux. 

Oranere    or    Lemon    Iclngr. 

Glace  a  I'Orange  ou  au  Citron. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

1     Pound     of     Wliite     Pulverized     Sugar. 

The  Juice   of  1  Lemon   or   Orange. 

For  Lemon  and  Orange  Icings  make 
a  Plain  Icing,  stirring  in  at  the  start 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  or  one  orange, 
and   proceeding  as   in   Plain   Icing.      (See 

recipe.) 

Orange   Transparent   Icing. 

Glace  Transparente  a  TOrange. 

1-2   Pound    of    Fine    WTiIte    Sugar. 

Half    the    White    of    1    Egg. 

The  Zest  of  1  Orange. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Orange    Essence    or 

Orange    Juice. 

An  Orange  Transparent  Icing  Is  made 
by  flavoring  with  a  little  orange  sugar, 
rubbing  against  the  zest  of  the  orange,  or 
tinging  with  Saffron  and  flavoring  with 
Curacoa. 

Colored   Transparent  Icing. 

Glace     Transparent     a     la     Rose,     a     la 

VIolette,    Etc. 

1-2    Pound    of    Fine    White    Sugar. 

Half  the  "V^Tiite  of  1  Egg. 

Flavoring    and     Coloring     According     to 

Taste. 

Green  Icing  is  made  by  using  the  Ex- 
tract    of    Spinach     and     flavoring    with 
Cedrati;    a  Rose  Pink  by  flavoring  with 
the    Essential    Oil    of    Roses    and    adding 
a  few   drops   of   Cochineal,  and  a  Violet 
Icing  by  flavoring  with  Syrup  of  Violet. 
Proceed  as  in  Plain  Icing. 
Wine   Icing. 
Glace    au    Vin. 
The  WTiItes  of  2  Eggs. 
1  Pound  of  White  Sugar. 
1    Gill    of    Sherry    or    Madeira    Wine. 

Proceed  exactly  as  in  Lemon  or  Orange 
Icing,  only  adding  instead  one  gill  of 
good  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine.  Then 
proceed  as  in  Plain  Icing. 

Water   Icing. 

Glace   a   I'Eau. 

2    Cups    of    Sugar. 

A  Pinch   of  Cream  of  Tartar. 

1    Tablespoonful     of    Vanilla,    Peach    or 

Strawberry  Extract. 

Take   two   cups   of   sugar   and   a  small 

pinch    of    Cream    of    Tartar.      Stir    with 


217 


Just  enough  water  to  make  a  thick  paste, 

and    Flavor    with    Peach    or    Strawberry 

Extract.      If    Strawberry    is    used,    add    a 

teaspoonful  of  Cochineal.    Beat  well,  and, 

if  not  stiff  enough,  add  more  sugar,  and 

proceed   as   in   Plain  Icing. 

FROSTING. 

Glace    Neigeuse. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

2    Cups    of    Pulverized    Sugar. 

1-2  Cup  of  Cornstarch. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Milk. 

Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  cups 

of  pulverized  sugar,  and   one-half  a  cup 

of  cornstarch.  Blend  the  cornstarch  with  a 

little  milk,  to  make  a  thick  paste,  add  the 

whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  light,  and  the 

pulverized    sugar.      Beat    all    to    a    stiff 

froth,     and    frost    the     cake     while     hot. 

Cream   Frosting. 

Glace    Neigeuse    a    la    Creme. 

The    Whites    of    2    Eggs. 

2   Cups    of   Pulverized    Sugar. 

4    Tablespoonfuls    of    Rich    Cream. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Vanilla  Extract. 

For  a  Cream  Frosting,  proceed  exactly 

as  above,  only   omit   the  cornstarch,  and 

add    an    equal    measure    of    rich    cream, 

and    flavor    with    Vanilla    Extract.    Boil 

the  cream. 

Orgeat    Paste    or    Icin?. 
Orgeate. 
1   Pound    of   Peeled   Almonds. 
1  Pound  of   Sugar. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Orange  Flower  Watei. 
To    one    pound    of    skimmed    altnonds 
add    one    pound     of    sugar.      Pound     as 
directed  to  a  pulp  In  a  mortar,  occasion- 
ally adding  a  few  drops  of  water  to  pre- 
vent  the    almonds    from    running    to    oil 
Use    Orange    Flower    Water.      Add    fine 
white    sifted    sugar    till    you    have    suf- 
ficient   to   make    a    paste,    and    work   till 
well-amalgamated    and    elastic.      It    will 
now  be  ready  for  any  use  designated  in 
this    book. 

Boyal    Icing. 

Glace  a  la  Royale. 

The    Whites    of    2    Eggs. 

1  Pound  of  Fine  White  Sugar. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Lemon    Juice. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Any  Kind  of  Essence 

Desired. 


A  Royal  Icing  is  made  of  the  finest 
possible  white  loaf  sugar,  sifted  and 
mixed  or  worked  into  a  paste  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  lemon  juice 
in  the  proportions  given  for  the  Plain 
Icing,  only  the  paste  must  be  softer. 
Flavor  with  any  kind  of  essence,  ac- 
cording to  fancy.  This  icing  is  used  to 
produce  fanciful  effects.  It  is  not  nec- 
essary to  purchase  ornamental  piping 
tubes.  With  a  little  taste  and  dexterity 
a  piece  of  white  writing  paper,  made 
into  the  shape  of  a  cornet,  may  be  uti- 
lized. Dry  the  paper  by  sticking  to- 
gether and  rubbing  with  the  white  of 
an  egg,  to  render  stiff.  Allow  at  the 
pointed  end  only  a  half  inch  opening, 
and  with  a  little  practice  and  good  ar- 
tictic  taste,  the  prettiest  effects  in  ele- 
gant ornamentation  may  be  produced 
by  even  an  amateur. 

Transparent    Icing. 

Glace  Transparente. 

1-2  Pound  of  Fine  White  Sugar. 

Half   of  the   White   of  1  Egg. 

The   Juice   of   Half   a   Lemon. 

1   Tablespoonful  of  Any  Fancy   Liqueur. 

Take  a  half  pound  of  the  finest  whitfl 
clarified  sugar,  and  clarify  again  by 
boiling  it  with  half  of  the  white  of 
an  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Clear  off 
the  skum  as  it  rises,  and  continue  skim- 
ming till  the  sugar  is  perfectly  clear. 
Then  add  to  the  sugar  half  a  gill  of 
clarified  sugar,  boiled  to  a  syrup,  and  to 
which  you  will  have  added  the  juice 
of  a  quarter  or  half  a  lemon.  Strain 
and  add  to  the  sugar  enough  liqueur, 
Curacoa,  Noyau,  Cedrati  or  Maraschino, 
to  flavor  the  icing  to  taste,  and  beat 
or  whip  it  to  the  proper  consistency. 
Then  take  a  silver  tablespoon  and  stir 
the  sugar  well  together,  rubbing  up  and 
against  the  sides  of  the  pan  till  it  ac- 
quires an  opaline  appearance.  Then  take 
a  silver  fork,  lift  one  of  the  cakes  in- 
tended to  be  iced,  dip  in  the  sugar, 
or  else  hold  it  on  a  fork  and  with  a 
spoon  pour  the  icing  over.  Take  another 
fork,  lift  off  the  cake  and  place  it  on 
the  baking  sheet,  and  so  on  till  all  the 
small  cakes  are  iced.  Then  dry  in  the 
sun  or  in  the  oven  for  about  ten  min- 
utes. 


CHAPTER    XLI. 
ICE    CREAMS,    BISCUIT,     SHERBETS. 


Des  Cremes  a  la  Glace, 

In  making  ice  creams,  always  use  th*? 
best,  fresh,  sweet,  rich  milk  or  cream. 
Sweeten  it  with  finely-powdered  sugar, 
and  flavor  with  the  best  quality  of  ex- 
tracts, such  as  lemon,  vanilla,  etc.,  whicii 
should  be  procured  from  first-class,  re- 
liable druggists.  These  are  the  simplest 
means  of  flavoring.  Sometimes,  how- 
ever, the  old  Creoles  boil  the  Vanilla 
Bean  until  the  aroma  is  extracted,  and 
when  cool  they  add  it  to  the  sweetenel 
cream.  Always  avoid  setting  the  cream 
near  the  fire,  especially  in  warm  weather, 
as  it  sours  easily.  Keep  it  in  the  refrig- 
erator till  ready  to  freeze. 

How    to    Make    Ice    Cream. 

Some  persons  boil  the  milK  and  eggs, 
thus  making  a  custard  ice  cream.  This 
is  the  cream  that  the  old  Creoles  prefer 
best.  But  there  are  others  who  prefer 
the  cream  unboiled.  In  either  case  it  Is 
absolutely  necessary  to  have  rich,  fresh 
cream,    and   In   the   latter   case   to   sca'd 


Biscuits,    Glacees,    Sorbets. 

the  cream,  if  you  wish  to  have  a  good  lc<" 
cream. 

The  following  is  the  approved  Creole 
method  of  making 

Ice    Cream. 

Creme  a  la  Glace. 

1  Quart  of  Milk  or  Cream.     6  Eggs. 

3-4   Pound    of   Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Any  Extract. 

Put  the  milk  or  cream  on  to  boil.  If 
cream  is  used,  six  eggs  will  be  sufficient; 
if  milk,  use  eight.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  the  sugar  very  light,  and  then 
heat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Take  th« 
milk  off  the  fire  and  pour  it  over  the 
sugar  and  the  yolks,  stirring  it  ail  the 
while.  Then  add  the  whites,  mixing  thor- 
oughly, and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ex- 
tract of  either  Lemon  or  Vanilla.  S'«t 
to  cool,  and  then  turn  into  the  freezer, 
pack  and  stir  around  in  the  ice  for  about 


218 


ten  minutes,  and  finish  as  in  recipe  for 
making"  and  freezing  cream.  (See  re- 
cipe.) 

How    to    Freeze    the    Cream. 

Before  putting  the  mixture  into  the 
freezer,  see  that  the  dasher  is  right  side 
up  and  that  everything  is  in  proper  con- 
dition and  adjustment.  Have  the  Ico 
pounded,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
rock  salt.  Put  a  three-and-a-half  inch 
layer  of  ice  into  the  bc-ttom  of  the  freezer, 
and  then  a  layer  of  salt,  fully  an  inch 
and  a  half  deen  Then  put  in  the  can 
and  continue  to  fill  around  it  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  ice  and  salt  till  the  freezer 
is  full.  Then  turn  the  crank  slowly  un- 
til it  is  som.ewhat  difficult  to  turn  it.  Let 
off  the  water  that  has  accumulated,  and 
refill  with  ice,  and  then  cover  with  a 
thick  piece  of  bagging  or  carpet.  Then 
let  it  stand  aside  in  a  cool  place  to  ripen, 
till  you  are  ready  to  serve.  Then  proceed 
as  above. 

Fruit  puddings  and  custards  may  be 
frozen  in  the  same  manner. 

How    to    Mold    Ice    Cream. 

When  ready  to  serve,  if  you  wish  to 
take  the  cream  out  of  the  mold  whole, 
have  ready  a  dish  with  a  flat  bottom, 
and  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Then  roll  the 
tin  mold  for  an  instant  only  in  the  water, 
and  wipe  it  quickly,  holding  the  top 
downwards.  Remove  the  lid,  and  quicklv 
turn  it  right  side  up,  setting  the  plate  on 
the  table  and  removing  the  mold  care- 
fully. Or  you  may  wring  out  cloths  in 
scalding  water  and  wrap  them  an  instant 
around  the  mold,  and  proceed  as  above. 
This  is  a  very  delicate  way  of  serving  the 
cream,  and  admits  of  it  being  brought 
to  the  table  in  all  its  beauty  and  fresh- 
ness and  perfection  of  molding. 

The  cream  may  also  te  molded  Into 
a  single  brick  by  having  a  brick-shapsd 
mold  and  filling  it  with  the  cream.  When 
well  filled,  press  down  closely  and  cover 
the  mold  carefully,  so  that  no  pieces  of 
salt  or  any  salt  water  can  enter  it  o*- 
penetrate  it.  Fill  the  bottom  of  a  pail 
with  ice,  mingled  with  rock  salt;  lay  the 
mold  upon  it,  surround  and  cover  with 
the  broken  pieces  of  ice  and  mingled  rock 
salt;  cover  and  let  freeze  for  about-  half 
an  hour.  When  frozen,  set  mold  in  luke 
warm  water,  wash  off  portions  of  ice 
and  salt,  lift  the  mold  out  gently,  un- 
cover, turn  into  a  dessert  dish  and  serve 
immediately. 

Apricot    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  aux  Abricots. 

1   Quart  of  Cream. 

3-4    Pound    of   Sugar. 

1  Quart  of  Apricots  or  1  Pint  Can. 

Prepare  the  cream  as  in  recipe  Ice 
Cream  (see  recipe),  and  let  cool  for  half 
an  hour.  Pare  and  mash  the  apricots, 
being  careful  to  remove  the  stones.  Then 
mash  them  Into  the  cream,  mixing  thor- 
oughly for  five  minutes,  till  well  dl^ 
solved  in  the  cream.  Then  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve  into  a  freezer,  pressing  the 
fruit  down  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and 
when  well  packed  proceed  to  freeze  as  ii> 
the  directions  for  Plain  Ice  Cream.  (See 
directions.) 

Banana   Ico   Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  aux   Bananes. 

6   Large   Bananas. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

The  Tolkg  of  3  Eggs. 

3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 


Peel  the  bananas  and  slice  and  maqh 
them.  Boil  the  milk,  and  add  the  sugar, 
stirring  till  well  dissolved.  Then  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  and 
let  cool  for  an  hour.  Stir  in  the  bananas, 
which  you  will  have  previously  beaten  to 
a  smooth  paste,  and  proceed  as  directed 
above. 

Chocolate     Ice     Cream. 
Creme   au   Chocolat. 

1  Quart  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

1-2  Pound  of  the  Best  French  Chocolate. 

1-4   Pound   of   Sugar. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Vanilla    Extract. 

Boil  the  milk,  and  add  to  it  a  half 
pound  of  the  best  French  chocolate,  grat- 
ed. Let  it  boil  and  thicken,  beating  till 
smooth.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
white  pulverized  sugar.  When  cool  ad«l 
half  a  quart  of  cream  and  the  Vanilla 
Extract.  Pour  into  the  freezer,  after  mix- 
ing well,  and  proceed  as  in  directions  for 
making  and  freezing  cream. 

Chocolate     Ice     Cream     With     Eggs. 

Creme   Glacee   au  Chocolat. 

4  Ounces  of  Chocolate. 

6  Ounces  of  Sugar.    1  Pint  of  Milk. 

8  Yolks   of  Eggs. 

1  Pint  of  Whipped  Cream. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Vanilla. 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  little  water, 
and  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk.  Take  off, 
and*  pour  over  the  eggs  and  sugar,  which 
you  will  have  beaten  to  a  thick  cream. 
Add  the  Vanilla,  and  set  to  cool.  Then 
add  the  remaining  cream,  and  freeze  aa 
directed. 

Coffee    Ice    Cream, 

Creme    Glacee    au    Cafe. 

1   Pint   of   Cream. 

1    Pint   of   New   Milk. 

6  Eggs.    1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1-2    Cup     of    Strong    Cafe    Noir     (Black 

Coffee). 

Boil  the  milk.  Take  from  the  fire. 
Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add 
the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  thoroughly 
beaten,  to  the  milk  and  coffee,  sweeten- 
ing to  taste.  Set  aside  to  cool,  and  add 
the  whipped  cream,  and  proceed  to  freeae 
as  directed. 

King    of    the    Carnival    Ice    Cream. 

Creme    «.   la   Glacee   au    Rex. 

1  Quart  of  Milk  or  Cream.     6  Eggs. 
1'  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1  Tablespoonful  Each  of  the  Coloring  Ex- 
tracts Given  Below. 

This  cream  was  originated  by  a  famous 
New  Orleans  confisseur  in  honor  of 
"Rex,"  the  King  of  the  world-famed  New 
Orleans  Carnivals.  It  was  first  served 
at  a  Carnival  luncheon  in  St.  Charles 
avenue.  The  King's  colors  are  purplft, 
green  and  gold.  The  cream  represents 
these  colors,  and  is  made  according  to  the 
following    directions: 

Make  a  Plain  Ice  Cream.  Divide  into 
three  distinct  and  equal  portions.  Color 
one  with  Spinach  Greenery,  to  obtain  the 
green  effect;  flavor  another  with  Essence 
of  Vanilla,  and  tinge  with  orange  juice 
or  a  bit  of  saffron,  to  obtain  the  golden 
yellow,  and  the  third  with  a  deep  Creme 
de  Violettes,  to  obtain  the  royal  purpln. 
Freeze  in  separate  molds.  Then  pack  into 
one  freezer,  and  when  frozen  remove,  ac- 
cording to  directions  for  taking  Ice  cream 
whole  from  a  mold.  Cut  in  slices  and 
serve.     Molds     now    come    made    in    the 


219 


shape  of  tiny  flags,  and  the  effect  of 
freezing  thus  is  very  beautiful,  and  sug- 
gests at  once  Rex  and  his  merry  reign. 

Liemon    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  au  Citron. 

1  Quart  O'f  Cream  or  Milk. 

6  Eggs.     3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Lemon    Extract. 

Put  the  millc  or  cream  on  to  boil.  If 
cream  is  used,  six  eggs  will  be  sufficient: 
if  millt,  use  eight.  Beat  the  yollcs  of  the 
eggs  and  the  sugar  very  light,  and  then 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Taks 
the  milk  off  the  fire,  and  pour  it  over 
the  sugar  and  yolks,  stirring  all  the 
while.  Then  add  the  whites,  mixing  thor- 
oughly, and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  extract 
of  lemon.  Set  to  cool,  and  then  turn  into 
the  freezer,  pack,  and  stir  around  in  the 
ice  for  about  ten  minutes,  and  finish  as 
in  recipe  for  making  and  freezing  Cream. 
(S'ee  recipe.) 

Liiqneur    Ice    Cream. 

Creme    Glacee    au    Liqueurs. 

1  Quart  of  Milk.    1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

The  Yolks  of  8  Eggs. 

A  Gill   of  Any  Kind   of  Liqueur. 

Boil  the  milk  and  take  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  sugar  and  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  thick  cream.  Add  a  gill  of  any  kind 
of  fancy  liqueur,  and  then  turn  into  a 
mold  and  freeze  as  above  directed. 

Mandarin   Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  a  I'Oranges. 

1  Quart  of  Cream  or  Milk. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

The  Yolks   of  6  Eggs. 

The  Grated  Zest  of  2  Mandarins. 

The  Juice  of  1  Dozen,   With   the   Grated 

Pulp. 

Peel  the  mandarins,   grate  the  rind   or 

zest  of   two   very  fine,   extract  the  juics 

of  twelve,  and,  after  taking  out  the  seeds, 

mash  the  inner  fruit  or  pulp  through  a 

sieve.    Put  the  milk  or  cream  on  to  boil. 

Beat    the   yolks    of   eggs    and    sugar    til! 

very  light,  and  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 

froth.     Take  the  milk  from  the  fire  and 

pour  it  over  the  sugar  and  yolks,  stirring 

all  the  while.     Set  to  cool,  then  add  the 

whites  of  the  eggs,  and  finally  the  grated 

mandarin   pulp,  zest   and  juice,   and  mix 

well.     Turn  all  into  a  freezer  and  proceed 

as    in    the    directions    given    for    making 

Ice  Cream.     (See  recipe.) 

Maraschino    Ice    Cream. 
Creme  Glacee  au  Maraschino. 

1   Quart   of   Milk. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar.     8  Eggs. 

A  Gill  of  Any  Kind  of  Maraschino. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
Boil  the  milk  and  take  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  thick  cream.  Set  to 
cool.  Add  a  gill  of  Maraschino  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  then  turn  into  a  mold  and  freeze  as 
above  directed. 

Neapolitan     Ice     Cream. 

Creme  Neapolitaine. 

1  Pint  of  "Vanilla  Cream. 

1  Pint  of  Pistache  Ice  Cream. 

1     Pint     of     Strawberry     or     Raspberry 

Cream. 

Prepare  the  ice  cream  according  to  re- 
cipes. (See  recipes.)  Have  at  hand  a 
brick  form  or  mold  that  will  hold  three 
pints.  LEiy  at  the  bottom  of  the  mold 
Pistache  Ice  Cream;   place  over  this  the 


Vanilla  Cream,  and  on  top  of  this  the 
Raspberry  or  Strawberry  Cream.  Cover 
the  mold  tightly  and  set  to  freeze  for  two 
hours.  Then  plunge  the  mold  into  warm 
water,  wash  oft  all  the  salt  and  dry. 
Then  carefully  uncover  and  unmold  tlie 
cream  in  a  cold  dessert  dish  or  on  a  piece 
of  paper.  Take  a  long,  sharp  knife,  dip 
Into  warm  water,  cut  the  brick  of  cream 
through  the  center,  and  then  divide  the 
pieces  into  three  or  four  parts,  each  be- 
ing perfectly  square.  Arrange  daintily 
on  a  cold  dessert  dish,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

Xectarine    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  aux  Poires. 

1  Quart  of  Cream  or  Milk. 

1    Pound    of    Sugar. 

1  Quart  of  Nectarines  or  1  Pint  Can. 

6    Eggs. 

Peel  the  nectarines,  stone  and  mash 
well,  with  half  of  the  sugar.  Let  them 
stand  for  an  hour  or  more,  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Set,  the  milk  to  boil; 
beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  re- 
maining half  of  the  sugar  to  a  cream, 
and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Take  the  milk  off  the  fire  and 
pour  it  over  the  sugar  and  yolks,  stirrinc 
all  the  while.  Set  to  cool.  Then  add  the 
mashed  nectarines  and  sugar,  and  mix 
well;  mix  all  thoroughly,  turn  into  a 
freezer  and  proceed  as  in  the  general  d'.- 
rections  for  making  Ice  Cream.  (See 
recipe.) 

Nougat    Ice    Creanu 
Creme  Glacee  au  Nougat. 

1  Pint  of  Nougat. 

8  Eggs.     3-4  Pound  of  S'ugar. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

3  Drops  of  Essence  of  Peach  Kernels. 

Make  some  Nougat  (see  recipe),  using 
about  a  pint.  Bruise  and  mash  it,  and 
blend  with  one  gill  of  orange  flower 
water.  Add  to  this  the  sugar  and  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  thick 
cream.  Set  the  milk  to  boil.  Then  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  above  ingred- 
ients, stirring  well,  and  adding  at  the  end 
the  Essence  of  Peach  Kernels,  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Then  freeze  in  the  manner  above  di- 
rected. Left-over  Nougat  may  be  utilized 
in  this  way. 

Noyau    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  au  Noyau. 

1   Quart  of   Milk. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

The  Juice   of  1   Lemon.    8   Eggs. 

A  Gill  of  Noyau. 

Boil  the  milk   and   take   from   the   fire, 

and  then  add  the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of 

the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  thick  cream.    Add 

a  gill  of  Noyau  Extract  and  the  whites 

of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Set 

to   cool,   and  then  turn   into  a  mold  and 

freeze  as   above   directed. 

Orange    Ice    Cream. 
Creme  Glacee  a  I'Orange. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

The  Juice  of  12  Oranges. 

xhe   Grated   Rind   of  2   Oranges,   Rubbed 

on   Sugar. 

Boil  the  milk  or  cream  in  a  farina 
boiler.  Take  off  the  fire,  and  while  hot 
pour  this  over  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
which  have  been  beaten  to  a  thick  creain, 
with  the  sugar;  add  orange  juice  and 
rind   of  the   oranges.    Stir  till  all  begin.« 


220 


to  thicken.  Then  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Set  to  cool. 
Turn  Into  the  freezer,  and  proceed  In  the 
manner  above  indicated. 

Orang:e    Flower    Ice    Cream. 

Creme    Glacee    a.   la    Fleur   d'Orangea. 

1  Quart  of  Cream.     3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1  Ounce  of  Candied  Orange  Flowers. 

The  Tollts  of  3  Eggs. 

Bruise  the  orange  flowers,  and  mix 
and  stir  them  with  the  boiling  milk.  Then 
take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  sugar, 
and  dissolve  well,  and  then  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  mix  well.  Freeze  In 
the  manner  above  indicated. 

Peach    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  aux  Peches. 

8  Ripe  Peaches  or  1  Can. 

6    Eggs.    1    Pound    of    Sugar. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

Put  the  milk  to  boil,  and  when  hot 
take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a 
thick  cream  with  the  powdered  sugar. 
Then  set  to  cool  for  thirty  minutes.  Then 
add  the  peaches,  which  you  will  have 
pared,  stoned  and  mashed,  and  stir  them 
quickly  into  the  cream.  Now  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Mix  all  thoroughly  together  and 
turn  into  the  freezer.  Turn  the  crank 
rapidly  for  a  few  minutes,  till  thorough- 
ly mixed,  and  then  cover  and  let  stand 
for  two  hours. 

Pistachio   Ice   Cream, 

Creme   Glacee   aux   Pistaches. 

1  Quart  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

3-4  Pound    of    Sugar. 

1-4  Pound  of  Shelled,  Scalded  and  Cleaned 

Pistachio    Nuts. 

The  Yolks  of  3  Eggs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Spinach  Greening,  or 

5   Drops   of   Spinach   Green. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Orange  Flower  Water 

or  Almond  Extract. 

Wash  and  boil  the  Spinach  for  five 
minutes,  and  then  drain  through  a 
colander.  Reduce  it  to  a  pulp,  and  then 
squeeze  out  the  juice  through  a  piece  o( 
fine  muslin.  One  quart  of  Spinach  wiil 
furnish  the  proper  amount  of  juice  when 
boiled  and  squeezed.  Then  wash,  scald, 
clean  and  pulverize  the  pistachios  to  a 
pulp.  Set  half  the  milk  to  boll  In  a 
farina  boiler.  Add  the  siigar,  and  stir 
tin  well  dissolevd.  Take  off  and  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten  very,  very  light. 
Stir  and  add  the  nuts,  and  stir  till  II 
thickens.  Then  stand  away  to  cool.  When 
cool,  add  the  flavoring  extract  and  the 
remaining  cream,  reserving  a  small  por- 
tion to  work  Into  the  Spinach  which  you 
will  add,  and  blend  smoothly.  When  the 
color  Is  a  light  green  turn  Into  a  freezer 
and  proceed  as  directed  above. 

Pineapple    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  a  I'Ananas. 

1  Large,   Ripe  Pineapple. 

1  Quart  of  Cream  or  Milk.     6  Eggs. 

1    Pound    of    Sugar. 

The   Juice   of   1   L^mon. 

Peel  the  pineapple,  and  then  grate  and 

pound  and  mash  the  pulp  with  one-half 

of  the  sugar.     Press  through  a  sieve.  Put 

the  milk   or  cream  on  to   boll.     Beat  the 

yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  remaining  half 

of  the   sugar  very  light,   and   then   beat 

the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Take  the  milk 

off  the  fire,  and  pour  it  over  the  sugar 

and   yolks,   stirring  all   the   while.    Then 

add  the  whites,  mixing  thoroughly.    Add 


the  pineapple  and  juice  and  mix  well. 
Set  to  cool  and  then  turn  into  the  freezer, 
pack  and  stir  around  In  the  Ice  box  for 
about  ten  minutes,  and  proceed  as  in  the 
recipe  for  making  and  freezing  Cream. 

Pineapple   Mousse. 

Mousse    a    I'Ananas. 

1  Pineapple. 

3   Teaspoonfuls  of  Vanilla. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Jamaica  Rum. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

1  Pound  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

Peel  the  pineapple,  and  cut  one-half 
into  slices.  Lay  them  in  a  bowl  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  one- 
third  of  the  rum.  Cover  and  set  aside 
till  needed.  Grate  the  remainder  of  the 
pineapple  into  an  earthen  vessel,  and  adj 
sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
pour  the  vanilla  and  the  rest  of  the  rum 
over  it.  Then  mix  carefully  with  the 
cream,  which  should  be  at  least  three 
times  the  weight  of  the  pineapple.  Turn 
all  into  an  ice  cream  mold  and  proceed  to 
freeze  as  directed  above.  Serve  with  slices 
of  pineapple  and  Its  syrup  around  the 
frozen  composition,  which  should  be 
turned  out  of  the  mold  according  to  di- 
rections given  for  making  and  freezing 
cream. 

Raspberry  Ice  Cream. 

Creme    Glacee    aux    Frambolses. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 
1  Quart  of  Raspberries  or  2  Tablespoon- 
fuls of  Raspberry  Extract. 
1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
The  Tolks  of  6  Eggs. 
The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Set  the  milk  to  boil,  add  the  sugar,  and 
when  well  dissolved  take  from  the  fire, 
add  the  eggs,  well  beaten  to  a  cream, 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  Then,  when  cool, 
add  the  remaining  half  of  the  sugar, 
which  you  will  have  blended  with  the 
berries,  which  have  been  mashed  well, 
and  allowed  to  stand  for  several  hours, 
and  then  press  through  a  sieve.  Mix  well 
with  the  milk,  add  the  lemon  juice,  turn 
Into  the  freezer,  and  freeze  as  above  di- 
rected. If  the  berries  are  too  pale  to  Im- 
part a  sufficient  rosy  tinge  to  the  cream, 
add  a  few  drops  of  Raspberry  Extract. 
It  Is  only  possible  to  make  the  Rasp- 
berry Cream  with  the  fruit  when  rasp- 
berries are  In  season.  Otherwise  use  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  Raspberry  Extract,  and 
proceed  as  in  recipe  for  Vanilla  Cream. 

Rice    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  au  Riz. 

21-2  Pints  of  Milk.     3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 

The  Tolks  of  3  Eggs. 

4   Ounces  of  Boiled  Rice. 

1  Gill  of  Curacoa. 

1-2  Pint  of  Milk  of  Almonds. 

A   Compote  of  6  Oranges. 

Boll  the  rice  in  the  milk  till  very  soft- 
Do  not  mash.  Set  the  pint  and  a  half 
extra  milk  to  boll,  and  add  the  rice  and 
the  milk  of  almonds  and  the  sugar  and 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  cream.  Make  a  custard. 
Take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  Curacoa, 
and  mix  well.  Set  to  freeze  as  above  di- 
rected, and  when  cold  turn  out  of  the 
mold  (see  recipe),  place  In  a  dish,  gar- 
nish around  with  the  oranges  (see  Com- 
pote of  Oranges),  pour  the  syrup  over  all. 
and  serve. 


221 


Rose   Ice   Cream. 

Creme  Glacee   a  la  Rose. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Red  Rose  Extract  and 

Vanilla. 

Prepare    exactly    as    in    recipe    for    Ice 

Cream,   using   the   same   ingredients,   and 

flavor    with    two    tablespoonfuls    of    Red 

Rose  Extract  and  Vanilla. 

Strawberry    Ice    Cream. 

Creme  Glacee  aux  Fraises. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 
1  Quart  of  Strawberries  or  2  Tablespoon- 
fuls of  Strawberry  Extract. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
6  Eggs.  The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
Set  the  milk  to  boil;  take  from  the  fire. 
add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten  to 
a  cream,  with  half  the  sugar,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Then,  when  cool,  add  the 
remaining  half  of  the  sugar,  which  you 
will  have  blended  with  the  strawberries, 
mashed  well,  and  allowed  to  stand  for 
several  hours,  and  then  press  through 
a  sieve.  Mix  well  with  the  milk,  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  turn  into  the 
freezer,  and  freeze  as  above  directed.  If 
the  strawberries  are  too  pale  to  Impart 
a  sufficiently  rosy  tinge  to  the  cream 
add  a  few  drops  of  Cochineal.  When  not 
in  season  flavor  with  the  Extract. 

Tnttl-Frnttl. 

1  Pint  of  Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 

1-2  Pint  of  Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

1-2  Pint  of  L*mon  Sherbet. 

2    Ounces    of    Candied    Cherries. 
1  Ounce  of  Candied  Orange. 

2  Ounces  of  Candied  Apricots. 
1  Ounce  of  Candied  Currants. 
Prepare  the  Vanilla  and  Strawberry  Ice 
Cream  and  the  Lemon  Sherbet  according 
to  recipes  given  (see  recipes).  Have  ready 
six  or  eight  tutti-frutti  molds.  Cut  the 
candied  cherries  into  halves  or  quarters, 
and  the  candied  OTanges  and  apricots 
into  small  pieces.  Open  the  tutti-frutti 
molds  and  fill  in  the  bottom  with  Vanilla 
Cream.  Lay  side  by  side  in  the  covers 
of  the  molds  a  spoonful  of  Lemon  Sher- 
bet and  a  spoonful  of  Strawberry  Cream; 
mix  the  candied  fruits  together  and  di- 
vide them  into  equal  parts,  and  lay  these 
on  the  Vanilla  Cream  in  the  bottom  of 
the  molds.  Then  press  the  covers  tightly 
on  each  mold,  and  after  seeing  that  they 
are  ffrmly  closed,  lay  the  mold  in  a  pal!, 
the  bottom  of  which  has  been  filled  with 
broken  ice  and  rock  salt.  Cover  the  mold 
with  more  rock  salt  and  ice  and  proceed 
to  lay  each  mold  one  over  the  other,  al- 
ternating with  the  ice  and  rock  salt. 
When  all  are  covered,  fill  in  the  pail 
with  broken  pieces  of  ice  and  rock  salt 
cover  and  let  freeze  for  one  hour.  Have 
ready  a  vessel  with  warm  water  and  six 
or  eight  very  cold  dessert  plates  on  which 
you  will  have  arranged  dainty  paper 
cases  fancifully  cut.  Lift  up  the  molds 
gentlv  and  wash  them  off  very  quickly 
with  "the  warm  water,  being  careful  to  see 
that  no  salt  adheres.  Then  open  the 
molds  and  lay  the  tutti-frutti  in  the  paper 
cases  and  serve  immediately. 

Tuttl-Frutti    a    la    Creole. 
1  Quart  of  Orange  Sherbet.    (See  Recipe.) 

1-2  Pint  of  Cherries,  Seeded. 

1-2   Pint    of    Stoned   Apricots. 

1-2  Pint  of  Stoned  Peaches. 

1-2  Pint   of  Figs.    1-2  Pint  of  Pineapple. 

1-2   Pint   of   Watermelon. 


Cut  the  watermelon  and  the  pineapple 

into  very  small  square  lozenges,  first 
seeding  the  watermelon.  Cut  the  rest  of 
the  fruits  very  fine.  Then  put  a  layer 
of  the  watermelon  into  the  freezer,  and 
sprinkle  generously  with  white  powdered 
sugar.  Then  put  a  layer  of  the  mixed 
fruits,  sugar^abundantly,  pour  in  a  little 
of  the  sherbet,  and  proceed  in  this  way 
until  the  whole  form  is  nearly  filled  with 
the  mixture  in  alternate  layers.  Then  set 
in  a  double  boiler  just  long  enough  for 
the  sugar  to  melt.  Take  out,  pour  over 
the  orange  sherbet,  close  tightly,  and  set 
to  freeze. 

Vanilla   Ice   Cream. 

Creme  Glacee   a.  la  Vanille. 

1  Quart  of  Milk  or  Cream. 
6  Eggs.  3-4  Pound  of  S'ugar. 
2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Any  Extract. 
Put  the  milk  or  cream  on  to  boil.  If 
cream  is  used,  six  eggs  will  be  sufficient; 
if  milk,  use  eight.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  the  sugar  very  light,  and  then 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Take 
the  milk  off  the  fire,  and  pour  it  over  the 
sugar  and  yolks,  stirring  all  the  while. 
Then  add  the  whites,  mixing  thoroughly, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  extract  of 
either  Lemon  or  Vanilla.  Set  to  cool, 
and  then  turn  into  the  freezer,  pack,  and 
stir  around  in  the  ice  for  about  ten  min- 
utes, and  finish  as  in  recipe  for  making 
and  freezing  cream.     (See  recipe.) 

Variegated    Ice    Cream. 

Creme   Panachee. 

1  Quart  of  Milk  or  Cream. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar.     6  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Essence  of  Strawberry. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Essence  of  Vanilla. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Chocolate. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Cream  of  Violets. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Spinach    Greenery. 

Prepare  a  Plain  Ice  Cream.  (See  re- 
cipe "Ice  Cream.")  Divide  it  into  por- 
tions. Color  one  with  Essence  of  Straw- 
berry, another  with  Spinach  Greenery, 
another  with  Vanilla,  to  obtain  yellow, 
another  with  Creme  de  Violettes,  another 
with  chocolate,  etc.  Freeze  all  these  in 
separate  molds,  that  come  specially  pre- 
pared for  this  purpose,  and  which  may  be 
obtained  from  any  dealer.  When  frozen, 
take  from  the  individual  molds  and  pack 
in  a  large  ice  cream  freezer  in  a  beautiful 
order  of  arrangement,  so  that  the  colors 
may  blend  well.  Freeze  again,  and  then 
remove  from  the  mold  according  to  direc- 
tions given  above  for  unmolding.  Cut 
into  slices  and  serve.  The  effect  of  the 
various  colors  is  very  pretty. 

BISCUIT     GLACES. 

1  Quart  of  Cream. 

The  Yolks  of  6  Eggs. 

1  Tablespocnful  of  Vanilla. 

3-4   Pound    of    Sugar. 

1  Gill  of  Maraschino  or  1  Gill  of  Kirsch. 

Set  one-half  the  cream  to  boil.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  till 
they  are  exceedingly  light.  Take  the  boil- 
ing milk  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in, 
while  still  very  hot,  the  sugar  and  eggs 
Then  set  to  cool.  When  cool  add  the 
Maraschino  or  Kirsch,  and  set  to  freeze 
as  Ice  Cream.  In  the  meantime,  whip  the 
remaining  cream  to  a  very  thick  froth, 
as  in  Whipped  Cream  a  la  Vanille,  add- 
ing the  Vanilla,  and  stir  it  into  the  freez- 
ing cream.  Cut  paper  cases,  or  use  the 
specially  prepared  molds  that  come  for 
Biscuit  Glace,  and  fill  with  the  mixture, 
and  then  fill  the  top  one  inch  high  witn 


222 


a  little  of  the  cream,  which  you  will  have 
colored  with  a  teaspoonful  of  Strawberry- 
Extract  and  a  few  drops  of  Cochineal. 
Pack  these  molds  or  cases  in  salt,  and 
freeze  for  two  hours  longer,  until  they 
can  be  turned  out  whole. 

Biscuits  Glaces  a  la  Creole. 

1   Pint    of    Milk. 

The  Tolks  of  6  Eggs. 

1-2  Pound  of  Pulverized  S'ugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  or  Ijemon 

Extract. 

Set  one  pint  of  milk  to  boil.     Beat  the 

yolks   of  six  eggs   with  a  half  pound   of 

white    pulverized   sugar   until   light.     Stir 

in  the  milk.     Take  from  the  fire,  and  let 

cool.     Flavor    with    vanilla    and     freeze. 

Whip  one  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth, 

and   stir   in.     Fill   molds    or   fancy   paper 

cases  with  the  mixture,  pack  in  salt  and 

Ice  for  two  hours,  and  serve. 

BOMBE    Gr,ACX!. 

1    Pint   of   Milk. 

The  Tolks  of  6  Eggs. 

1-2  Pound  of  White  Pulverized  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

1-2  Pint  of  Strawberry  Sherbet. 

For  this  purpose  you  must  have  Bombe 
Glace  molds.  Line  the  molds  about  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  thick  with  Straw- 
berry Water  Ice  (see  recipe),  and  then 
fill  the  center  with  the  Biscuit  Glace,  pre- 
pared as  above.  The  biscuit  must  be 
freezing  cold  when  put  into  the  mold. 
Pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  set  to  freeze 
several  hours. 

SHEBBET. 
Sorbets. 

Sherbets  are  delightful  water  ices,  dif- 
fering from  ice  creams  in  this,  that  n ) 
milk  or  eggs  are  used  in  the  making,  the 
juice  of  the  fruit  or  extract  of  fruit  or 
essence  flavoring  and  sugar  and  water 
being  prepared  and  frozen  together.  Sher- 
bets are  among  the  most  pleasant  of  the 
Creole  summer  desserts;  they  are  exten- 
sively served  of  a  hot  summer  evening  in 
Creole  families  and  are  both  for  the 
family  and  guests,  who  may  drop  in  f jr 
a  social  half  hour.  The  sherbet  is  served 
in  glasses.  Water  ices  are  made  in  ex- 
actly the  same  manner  as  sherbets,  only 
the  water  and  sugar  are  not  boiled;  they 
are  mixed  together  and  the  flavoring 
or  fruit  juice  added  and  frozen,  and  are 
served  immediately. 

Apple    Sherbet. 
Sorbet   aux   Pommes. 

1  Pound   of   Sugar. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Apple  Juice. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Take  about  a  dozen  apples,  pare,  core 
and  quarter,  and  cock  till  very  tender 
Put  the  sugar  and  water  to  boil,  add  the 
apples,  and  when  very  tender  strain  *ll 
through  a  sieve.  Add  the  juice  of  the 
lemon  and  set  to  freeze  as  in  Ice  Cream. 
(See  recipe  for  Freezing  Ice  Cream.) 
Serve  as   needed. 

Apricot    Sherbet. 

Sorbet   aux   Abricots. 

1-2  Pint  of  Apricot  Juice. 

1  Pound  of  S'ugar. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  to  boil.  Take 
about  one  dozen  apricots,  pare,  press 
them    through    a    sieve,    and    add    to    the 


boiling  syrup.  Let  all  boil  for  five  or  tan 
minutes.  Then  press  through  a  sieve 
again;  add  the  lemon  juice,  mix  well  and 
set  to  freeze  as  in  general  directions  for 
freezing  Ice  Cream. 

Banana   Sherbet. 

Sorbet  aux  Bananes. 

1  Dozen  Bananas.     1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

The  Juice  of  2  Oranges. 

Peel  and  mash  the  bananas.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  water  together  for  five  min- 
utes. Take  from  the  fire,  and  let  cool. 
Then  add  the  bananas  and  the  orange 
juice,  and  press  all  through  a  sieve.  Set 
to  freeze  as  directed.  This  Is  a  favorite 
Creole  Sherbet. 

Cherry    Sherbet. 
Sorbet  aux  Cerises. 

1  Pound  of  Cherries.    1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1  Quart  of  Water. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for 
five  minutes.  Stone  the  cherries  and  add 
them  to  the  syrup.  Then  set  to  cool. 
Press  through  a  sieve  till  all  the  juice  is 
extracted  from  the  cherries.  Set  to  freeze 
and  serve  as  directed. 

Currant    Sherbet. 

Sorbet  aux  Groseilles. 

1  Pint  of  Currant  Juice. 
1  Quart  of  Water.  1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
Mash  one  quart  of  currants.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  water  for  five  minutes.  Add 
the  currants  and  strain  through  a  napkin 
or  sieve,  being  careful  to  press  very  hard 
to  extract  the  juice  of  the  currants.  Set 
to  freeze  as  directed. 

Grape    Sherbet. 
Sorbet  aux  Raisins. 
1   Pint   of   Malaga   Grapes. 
1  Pound  of  S'ugar. 
1  Quart  of  Water. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  five  minutes. 
Mash  the  grapes  and  add  all  to  the  sugar 
and     water.    Set     to     cool.    Then     pre™ 
through    a    fine    cloth,    pressmg   hard   to 
extract   all   the  juice   of   the   grapes.    Set 
to  freeze  and  serve  as  directed. 
Lemon    Sherbet. 
Sorbet  aux  Citron. 
The  Juice   of  10  Lemons. 
The  Grated  Zest  of  3  Lemons. 
1   Pint   of   Sugar. 
1  Quart  of  Water. 
Put  the  sugar  and  water  to  boil.    Grata 
the  zest  or  yellow  rind   of  three  lemon3, 
and  add  to  the  syrup,  and  let  it  boil  for 
five    minutes.     Then    set    away    to    cool. 
Extract   the   juice   from   the  lemons,   ana 
grate  the  fruit.     Mix  this  with  the  syrup, 
and   then    strain   through   a   thm   muslin 
cloth.     Turn    into    the    freezer,    and    pro- 
ceed as  in  Ice  Cream. 

Orange    Sherbet. 

Sorbet  a  I'Orange. 

12  Large  Louisiana  Oranges. 

1   Quart  of  ^Vater. 

The   Juice   of   2   Lemons. 

The  Zest  of  3  Oranges. 

1  Pint  of  Sugar. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  to  boil.  Grate 
the  zest  or  yellow  rind  of  three  oranges 
and  add  to  the  syrup,  and  let  it  boil  for 
five  minutes.  Then  set  away  to  cool.  Ex- 
tract the  juice  from  the  oranges  and 
lemons,    and    grate    the    fruit.     Mix    thl« 


223 


with  the  syrup,  and  then  strain  all 
through  a  thin  muslin  cloth.  Turn  Into 
the  freezer,  and  proceed  as  in  Ice  Cream. 

Peach    Sherbet. 

Sorbet    aux    Peches. 

1  Dozen  Fine  Peaches. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

The   Juice   of   2    Lemons. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

Pare  and  cut  the  peaches  in  halves,  re  • 
move  the  stones.  Cut  the  peaches  up 
very  fine  and  sprinkle  virith  a  half  poun^ 
of  sugar,  mash  well  together  and  set 
aside  for  an  hour.  Then  set  the  water 
and  the  remaining  half  of  the  sugar  to 
boil.  After  five  minutes  remove  from  the 
fire  and"  let  cool;  add  the  peaches  and 
mix  well.  Then  press  all  through  a  fine 
cloth  sieve,  extracting  all  the  juice  from 
the  peaches.  Set  to  freeze  and  serve  as 
directed,  in  glasses.  This  is  a  delicious 
sherbet. 

Pineapple    Sherbet. 

Sorbet  a.  TAnanas. 

1  Pound  of  Grated  Pineapple. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

1  Pint  of  Sugar. 

The    Juice    of   1    Lemon. 

Peel  and  slice  and  pound  the  pineapple 
to  a  pulp.  Then  rub  through  a  strainer. 
Put  the  sugar  and  water  to  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Then  set  away  to  cool.  Ex- 
tract the  Juice  from  the  lemon  r.nd  mix 
this  with  the  syrup,  add  the  pineapple 
and  juice,  and  then  strain  all  through  a 
thin  muslin  cloth.  Turn  into  the  freezer 
and  proceed  as  in  ice  cream.  This  sher- 
bet is  also  made  by  using,  instead  of 
the  pineapple,  fruit  and  juice,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Pineapple  Extract. 

Pomeerranate    Sherbet. 

Sorbet  aux   Grenades. 

8  Ripe   Pomegranates. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

1  Pound  of  S'ugar. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Essence    of    Vanilla. 

3  Drops  of  Cochineal. 

The  pips  of  six  or  eight  ripe  pome- 
granates, pressed  with  a  wooden  spoon 
through  a  strainer,  will  produce  a  pint  of 
juice.  Mal^e  a  syrup  by  boiling  one  quart 
of  water  and  one  pint  of  sugar.  Add, 
when  cooling,  the  pomegranate  ]uice,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  Essence  of  Vanilla, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  few  drops  oC 
Cochineal.  Proceed  to  freeze  as  above  di 
rected. 

Raspberry    Sherbet. 

Sorbet  aux  Framboises. 

1 1-2   Pints   of   Raspberry   Juice   or   Pulp. 

11-2  Pints  of  Picked  Raspberries. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

3  Drops  of  Cochineal. 

The  Juice   of  1-2  Lemon. 

Stem  the  berries,  and  add  the  sugar 
and  lemon,  &,nd  stand  aside  in  their 
juice  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  the  re- 
served juice.  Turn  into  the  freezer,  and 
proceed  to  freeze  according  to  directions 
given  under  heading  "Ice  Cream."  This 
,  sherbet  is  also  made  by  adding  to  the 
sugar  and  water  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Raspberry  Extract,  instead  of  the  fruit, 
when  not  available. 


Strawberry    Sherbet. 

Sorbet  aux   Fraises. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Strawberry  Juice  or  Pulp. 

1 1-2   Pints    of    Picked    Red    Strawberries. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

3   Drojps  of  Cochineal. 

The   Juice   of  1-2   Lemon. 

Stem  the  strawberries  and  add  the 
sugar  and  lemon,  and  stand  aside  in  their 
juice  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  the  re- 
served Juice.  Turn  into  the  freezer  and 
proceed  to  freeze  according  to  directions 
given  under  the  heading  "Ice  Cream." 
Strawberry  Sherbet  is  also  made  by  add- 
ing one  tablespoonful  of  Strawberry  Ex- 
tract to  the  sugar  and  water,  when  the 
fruit  is  not  available. 


Watermelon     Sherbet. 

Sorbet    de    Melon    d'Eau. 

1    Ripe    Watermelon. 

1-2  Pound  of  Pulverized  Sugar. 

6    Teaspoonfuls    of    Sherry    Wine. 

Split  a  ripe  watermelon  in  half.  Scoop 
out  the  center,  rejecting  the  seeds.  Put 
the  scooped  fruit  in  a  bowl;  take  a  silver 
fork  and  pick  it  in  small  pieces.  M'x 
with  a  half  pound  of  pulverized  sugar; 
turn  the  mixture  into  a  freezer  and  turn 
slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  In 
glasses,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  Sherry 
to  each  glass. 

WATER     ICES. 

Water  ices  are,  as  mentioned  above, 
made  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
sherbets,  only  the  sugar  and  water  are 
not  boiled.  In  this  case  always  mash  the 
fruit  with  the  sugar  and  set  aside  to 
grow  juicy.  Then  press  through  a  fine 
muslin  cloth,  to  extract  all  the  juice,  aud 
add  to  the  water.  Mix  well  for  a  few 
minutes  and  freeze.  In  case  peaches  or 
apricots  or  cherries  are  used,  pound  the 
fruit,  to  extract  all  the  juice,  and  mix 
well  with  the  sugar;  strain  through  a 
fine  sieve  or  muslin  cloth,  and  add  to 
the  cold  water,  and  proceed  to  freeze. 

To  make  Water  Ices,  follow  the  direc- 
tions given  for  making  Sherbet,  with  th« 
exception  of  boiling  the  water. 


MIDDLE      COURSE      DRINKS. 

Coup    de   Millieu. 

From  earliest  Creole  days  no  elegant 
dinner  or  luncheon  or  supper  was  con- 
sidered complete  without  a  "Coup  de  Mil- 
lieu,"  or  a  middle  course,  consisting  of 
a  form  of  iced  sherbet  or  punch,  into 
which  fruit  Juices  or  fancy  liqueurs  were 
added.  As  the  name  "Coup  de  Millieu" 
indicates,  these  fancy  punches  were 
brought  to  the  table  in  the  middle  of  the 
feast,  just  before  the  roasts  were  served. 
The  custom  was  a  survival  of  the  ancient 
French  and  Spanish  usage,  that  in  our 
day  has  been  adopted  by  all  leading 
Northern  caterers.  The  following  are  the 
most  famous  "Coup  de  Millieus,"  the  re- 
cipes for  which  are  traditional  among  the 
old  Creole  families  of  New  Orleans.  The 
"Coup  de  Millieu"  is  always  frozen,  but 
it  must  be  remembered  that  it  is  never 
possible  to  freeze  it  entirely,  on  account 
of  the  alcohol  in  the  liquors  that  enter 
into    its  composition. 


224 


Cardinal   Panch. 

Ponche    Cardinal. 

4  Fine  Louisiana  Oranges. 

1   Pint   of   tlie    Best    Claret   or  Any   Fine 

Red  Wine. 

1  Pint  of  Old  Port  Wine. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

2  Tablespocnfuls  of  Cloves. 

1    Pint   of    Gelatine    or    the    Whites    of   10 

Eggs,  Beaten  to  a  Froth. 

2  Pounds  of  White  Sugar. 

3   Tablespoonfuls   of   Raspberry   Juice   or 
a  Few  Drops  of  Cochineal. 

Select  fine  Louisiana  oranges,  when  in 
season,  otherwise  fine,  ripe  oranges.  Set 
them  on  a  plate  in  the  oven,  and  let 
them  bake  till  very  tender,  without  let- 
ting the  juice  exude.  Make  a  boiling 
syrup  of  the  sugar,  water  and  the  cloves. 
Drop  the  roasted  oranges  into  the  syrup, 
add  a  pint  of  the  best  Claret  or  any  good, 
red  wine,  and  set  the  mixture  to  cool, 
letting  the  oranges  steep  in  the  wine  9,nd 
syrup.  When  it  grows  cold,  cut  the 
oranges  and  press  out  all  the  juice,  mash- 
ing them  Into  steeped  syrup,  and  then 
strain  all  through  a  fine  sieve  into  the 
ice  cream  freezer.  Now  add  the  gelatine 
(Calf's  Foot  Jelly)  or  the  whites  of  ten 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  well 
and  add  the  raspberry  juice,  if  raspber- 
ries are  in  season,  otherwise  co-lor  with  a 
few  drops  of  Cochineal,  so  that  the  nunch 
will  be  of  a  bright  cardinal  color.  Cover 
immediately  and  set  to  freeze  as  hard  as 
possible  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Then 
take  a  wooden  spoo'U  and  detach  the 
frozen  punch  from  the  bottom,  mix  in 
with  the  inner  liquid  mixture,  and  cover 
and  freeze  again  for  three  or  four  min- 
utes. Repeat  this  four  or  five  times. 
Serve  in  punch  glasses. 

A  simpler  and  quicker  way  of  making 
this  punch  is  to  prepare  a  Raspberry 
Sherbet,  using  half  the  quantity  of  In- 
gredients given.  (See  recipe.)  Strain 
this  preparation  through  a  sieve  into  a 
freezer,  and  add  a  half  a  gill  of  red  Cu- 
racoa  and  half  a  gill  of  Maraschino; 
cover  the  freezer  and  proceed  to  freeze 
according  to  general  directions  given 
above.  Serve  in  punch  glasses.  This  is 
a  very  pleasant  middle  course  drink,  but 
the  first  recipe  given  is  the  true  Cardinal 
Punch,  and  there  is  no  comparison  be- 
tween this  and  the  latter,  or  more  simple 
recipe. 

Cardinal  Punch  is  an  old-time  Creole 
punch.  The  French  used  to  make  a  fa- 
mous spiced  wine,  which  they  called 
"Vin  de  I'Eveque,"  or  "Bishop's  Wine." 
When  the  spiced  wine  was  made  of 
Claret,  it  was  called  "Vin  de  Cardinale," 
or  "Cardinal's  Wine."  These  wines  w©ra 
served  during  the  feast.  The  "Coup  de 
Millieu,"  or  the  frozen  punches,  are  sur- 
vivals of  the  old  French  custom  of  serv- 
ing spiced  wines,  and  "Ponche  a  la  Car- 
dinale"  is  a  survival  of  the  ancient  "Vin 
a  la  C'ardinale."  The  Creoles  adapted 
oranges  to  the  punch,  baking  them  to 
better  extract  all  the  juices,  and  steepinfi 
them  in  wine  and  adding  the  touch  of 
C!ochineaI  to  obtain  brilliancy  of  color- 
ing and  still  further  to  carry  out  the  Idea 
of  a  Cardinal's  colors. 

Creole    Fnnch, 

Ponche  a  la  Creole. 

3  Cupfuls  of  Orange  Juice. 

1  Cupful  of  Water. 

1  Cupful  of  Fin©  Old  Port  Wine. 

1-2  Cupful  of  Brandy. 
2  Small   Cupfuls   of  Sugar. 

2  Ripe,  Delicate-Skinned  Lemons. 


Wash  the  lemons  and  dry,  and  then 
slice  them  very  thin,  without  grating  or 
sqeezing  into  a  bowl.  Take  the  sugar 
and  water  and  make  a  boiling  syrup, 
and  pour  over  the  lemons,  and  let  the 
whole  mixture  cool.  Then  add  the  orange 
juice.  Take  out  the  slices  of  lemon, 
and  save  Ihem  for  later  use.  Strain  the 
punch  into  an  ice  cream  freezer,  add  the 
slices  of  lemon  and  liqueurs,  and  freeze 
as  hard  as  possible  for  three  or  four 
minutes.  Then  take  a  wooden  spoon  and 
detach  the  frozen  punch  from  the  sides 
of  the  freezer  and  from  the  bottom,  mix 
in  with  the  inner  liquid  mixture,  and 
cover  and  freeze  again  for  three  or  four 
minutes.  Repeat  this  four  or  five  times. 
Serve    in    punch    glasses. 

Frozen     Champagne     Punch. 

Ponche  Glace  au  Vin  de  Champagne. 

6  Lemons.     2  Oranges. 

1  Pound  of  White  Powdered  Sugar. 

1  Pint   of  Water. 

1-2  Pint  of  Champagne. 

1-2  Gill  of  Brandy. 

Extract  all  the  juice  from  the  oranges 
and  lemons.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  boil- 
ing water,  and  when  cold  add  the  juice. 
Freeze  very  hard  for  four  or  five  min- 
utes, and  when  firm  add  the  liquors, 
turning  long  enough  to  mix  well,  and 
then  proceed  to  freeze  as  in  Creole  Punch. 
(See  recipe.)     Serve  in  punch  glasses. 

The  above  recipe  may  be  varied  by 
adding  any  fruit  juices  in  season,  always, 
as  in  Strawberry  Punch,  putting  in  two 
dozen  or  more  whole  stemmed  berries 
for  the  above  quantities  of  ingredients. 

Imperial    Fnnch. 

Ponche    a    I'lmperial. 

1  Ripe  Pineapple. 

4    Oranges.     2   Pounds   of    Sugar. 

The  Finely-Grated  Zest  of  2  Lemons. 

1     Pint     Equal     Parts     of     Maraschino 

Noyeau,  Kirsch  and  Curaco. 

1  Grated  Nutmeg. 

1  Pint  of  Champagne. 

The    Whites    of   8    Eggs. 

3  Pints  of  Water. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  water  and  the 
syrup.  Peel  and  grate  the  pinapple  very 
fine.  Grate  the  zest  of  two  lemons  very 
fine,  and  mix  with  the  pineapple.  Add 
the  juices  of  the  oranges  and  lemons. 
Mix  thoroughly,  and  pour  over  all  the 
boiling  syrup.  Let  it  stand  till  cold. 
Then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  the 
ice  cream  freezer,  pressing  out  all  the 
juice  of  the  pineapple  as  you  strain 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  add,  mixing  well.  Add  the 
liqueurs,  stir  well,  and  then  proceed  to 
freeze  as  in  "Creole  Punch."  When  yo»i 
have  detached  the  frozen  punch  from  the 
sides  and  bottom  of  the  freezer  for  the 
third  time  add  the  champagne.  Let  It 
continue  freezing  for  several  turns  mora, 
and   serve  immediately  in  punch  glasses. 

Kirsch  Funch. 

Ponche  au  Kirsch. 

1  Dozen  Fine  Louisiana  Oranges. 

1   Gill   of  Kirsch. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Pineapple  SVrup. 

2  Lemons.     2  Dozen  Strawberries. 
Take    fine,     fresh     Louisiana     oranges, 

and  press  out  all  the  juice,  and  mash  the 
pulp  and  srtain  through  a  sieve.  To 
each  pint  of  juice  allow  one  gill  of  Klrsrh 
and  the  Juice  of  two  lemons.  Sweeten  to 
taste.  Flavor  with  Pineapple  Syrup,  add 
whole  strawberries  when  in  season,  and' 
freeze  as  in  Creole  Punch.  Serve  In 
glasses. 


22J 


Lioulsiana  Punch-. 

Ponche   a    la    Louisianaise. 

The  Juice  of  1  L.arge  Louisiana  Orange. 

The  Juice  of  4  Lemons. 

1-2  Pound  of  Pulverized  Sugar. 

1-2  Pint  of  Water. 

1  Gill  of  Kirsch.     1  Gill  of  Fine  Rum 

1  Gill   of  Champagne. 

Put  the  sugar  into  a  bowl  and  squeeze 
over  the  juices  of  the  orange  and  lemons. 
Mix  well  till  all  the  sugar  is  impregnated 
with  the  juices.  Add  a  half  pint  of  cold 
water,  and  then  add  the  Kirsch,  and  stir 
for  five  or  six  minutes.  Strain  all  through 
a  fine  sieve  into  the  ice  cream  freezer. 
Then  remove  the  sieve  and  pour  into  the 
freezer  the  Rum  and  Champagne.  Cover 
well,  and  let  the  mixture  freeze  for  about 
five  minutes.  Then  remove  the  cover 
and  detach  the  mixture  from  the  sides 
and  bottom,  and  cover  again  and  proceed 
as  in  "Ponche  a  la  Creole."  (See  recipis.) 
Serve  in  punch   glasses. 

Roman    Punch. 

Ponche  a  la  Romaine. 

1  Quart  of  Lemon  Sherbet. 

1-2  Pint  of  Champagne. 
1-2  Pint  of  Jamaica  Rum. 

1  Gill   of  Maraschino. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Make  a  Lemon  S'herbet,  and  freeze  It 
very  hard.  Then  add  the  liquors  slowly, 
and  beat  well.  Turn  into  a  freezer,  pack 
and  cover  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  for 
four  or  five  hours.  The  punch  will  not 
freeze  perfectly  on  account  cf  the  al- 
cohol. The  correct  way  to  serve  it  is  tn 
a  rather  liquid  state,  in  glasses. 

Or  take  half  a  pint  of  lemon  juice,  the 
zest  of  two  lemons,  grated  on  sugar,  one 
pint  of  Rum,  one  and  a  half  pints  oE 
Brandy,  two  quarts  of  water,  and  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  freeze  as  above. 
This  is   a. cheaper   recipe. 

Still  another  way  to  make  this  punch 
is  to  take  the  juice  of  eight  lemons  and 
five  oranges,  three  pints  of  sugar,  and 
three  pints  of  water.  Add  one  wineglass- 
ful  of  Jamaica  Rum,  and  two  of  Cham^ 
pagne,  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Freeze  and  serve  in 
glasses. 

Royal    Sherbet. 

Sorbet    a    la    Royale. 

1   Dozen    Fine    Louisiana    Oranges. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Brandy. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Orange    Syrup. 

Take  fine,  fresh  Louisiana  oranges, 
and  press  out  all  juice,  and  mash  the 
pulp  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  To  each 
pint  of  juice  allow  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Brandy  and  two  of  orange  syrup. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze  and  serve  ac- 
cording to  the  directions  given  for  Cre- 
ole Punch. 

FROZEN     TBUITS. 

Des  Fruits  Glacees. 

The  variety  of  fruits  always  to  be 
found  in  the  New  Orleans  markets  is 
the  pleasure  and  surprise  of  visitors  to 
the  city,  as  well  as  a  delight  to  the  resi- 
dents. No  manner  of  serving  fruits  in 
summer  is  more  acceptable  than  the 
methods  of  freezing  them  in  vogue  among 
the  Creoles. 

Remember  that  in  freezing  fruits  they 
must  always  be  mashed  or  cut  very  fine, 
for  fruit  freezes  more  quickly  than  liquid. 
Fresh  fruits  are  always  more  delicious 
than  canned  fruits.  The  latter  are  rarely 
used    for    freezing    in    Creole    homes,    as 


fresh   fruits    in   season   are   always    to   be 
found  in  our  markets. 

Tlie  following  recipe  for  freezing  fruits 
will  serve  for  almost  all  kinds  of  fruit: 

How    to    Freeze    Fruits. 

Take  one  pound  of  fruit,  or  one  can. 
two  cups  of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  water. 
Cut  fine,  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether. Then  freeze  in  the  ice  cream 
freezer,  according  to  directions  already 
given   for  freezing. 

The  proportions  of  ingredients  used 
in  freezing  fruits  are  generally  one  pint 
of  fruit,  one  pint  of  water  and  half  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Increase  in  proportion. 
Peaches  and  such  fruits  as  are  watery 
may  often  be  frozen  without  addition  of 
water.     Serve  with  rich  cream  or  milk. 

Frozen    Apricots. 

Abricots  Glacees. 

2  Fine,  Ripe  Apricots. 

2  Cups  of   Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Water  or  Cream. 

Pare  the  apricots,  cut  them  in  two,  re- 
move the  stones,  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Mash  the  fruit  and  the  sugar  together, 
add  the  water  or  cream,  and  turn  into 
the  freezer  and  proceed  to  freeze  as  in 
Ice  Cream.     (See  recipe  Ice  Cream.) 

Frozen    Bananas. 

Bananes   Glacees. 

1  Dozen  Mne  Bananas. 

3-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Sugar  or  Cream. 

The  Juice   of  2   Oranges. 

Peel   the   bananas,   cut  them   very   fine 

and  mash  well;   add  the  cream  or  water 

and  the  orange  juice,  turn  into  the  freezer 

and  pack  away  in  ice  and  rock  salt.     Set 

to    freeze    according    to    directions    given 

for  freezing  Ice  Cream.     (See  recipe.) 

Frozen    Cherries. 

Cerises    Glacees. 

1   Pound   of   Cherries. 
1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1    Quart    of    Water. 

Stone  the  cherries,  mix  them  with  the 
sugar  and  add  the  water.  Mix  well  and 
turn  into  the  freezer  and  proceed  to 
freeze  as  in  directions  for  Ice  Cream. 
(See  recipe.)  Serve  with  Whipped  Cream 
or  rich   milk. 

Frozen     Oranges. 
Oranges   Glacees. 

6  Fine  Oranges. 

1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

Pare  the  oranges,  and  grate  or  out 
them  into  fine  pieces.  Mix  well  with  the 
sugar  and  set  aside  for  an  hour.  Add 
the  water  and  mix  thoroughly.  Turn  mto 
a  freezer  and  proceed  to  freeze  as  in  Ice 
Cream.     (See  recipe.) 

Another  delightful  way  is  to  cut  off  the 
tops  of  the  oranges,  about  two  inches 
deep;  then,  with  a  small  and  very  sharp 
knife,  remove  the  orange  skin  whole, 
being  careful  not  to  break.  Set  the 
orange  covers  to  one  side.  Scoop  out  the 
inside  of  the  oranges,  being  careful  not 
to  break  the  outer  skin.  Take  these 
oranges  and  arrange  nicely  in  a  square 
Biscuit  Glaeee  mold,  and  set  in  a  tub. 
the  bottom  of  which  has  been  filled  with 
broken  pieces  of  ice  and  rock  salt.  Pre- 
pare a  Champagne  Punch  (see  recipe), 
fill  the  interiors  of  the  oranges  with  this, 
set  the  orange  covers  on,  and  place  the 
cover   on    the   mold,   covering   very   tight. 


226 


Cover  well  with  broken  pieces  of  ice  and 

rock  salt  and  set  to  freeze  for  an  hour. 

Then  take  from  the  mold,  place  on  a  very 

cold  dessert  dish  and  serve  inamediately 

Frozen    Peaches. 

Peches    Glacees. 

12  Large  Peaches. 

2  Cups  of  Sugar. 

1   Pint   of   Water. 

Take  twelve  large  peaches  or  one  can, 

two  cups  of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  water. 

Cut    the    peaches    fine,    and    mix    all    the 

ingredients  together.     Then  freeze  in  the 

ice  cream  freezer  according  to  directions 

already  given. 

Peaches,  if  very  juicy,  may  often  be 
frozen  without  addition  of  water.  Serve 
with    rich   cream   or   milk. 

Frozen    Pineapple. 
Ananas    Glacees. 
1  Large  Pineapple. 
1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1   Pint   of  Water. 
Pare  the  pineapples.     Cut  out  the  eyes, 
and  then   grate   the  fruit,   or  cut  it  very 
fine.    Add  the  sugar  and  water  and  stir 
well.     When  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved,  turn   the   mixture   into    a   freezer, 
and   proceed   to   freeze   as   in   Ice   Cream. 
(See   recipe.) 

Frozen    Strawberriee. 

Fraises    Glacees. 

1    Quart   of   Strawberries. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1   Pint   of  .Water. 

Mash    the    berries    with    the   sugar    and 

set    aside    for    an    hour.       Add    the    water 

and  mix  well  with  the  SFtrawberries.    Turn 

the  mixture  into  the  freezer  and  proceed 

to    freeze   as    in    Ice    Cream    (see    recipe). 

Serve  with  rich  milk  or  Whipped  Cream. 

Macedoine    of    Frnits. 

Macedoine  de  Fruits. 

1  Quart  of  Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

The  Juice  of  3  Lemons. 


1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla  Extract. 

2  Ounces  of  Stoned  Cherries. 

2  Ounces  of  Pineapples,  Cut  in  Dice. 

2  Ounces  of  Strawberries. 

2  Ounces  of  Grapes.    2  Ounces  of  Peache^s. 

2   Ounces   of  Apricots. 

2    Ounces    of    Oranges. 

1  Ounce  of  Candied  Cherries. 

1  Ounce  of  Angelica. 

1  Ounce  of  Candied  Pieapple, 

1  Gill  of  STierry  Wine. 

Prepare  a  quart  of  Lemon  Ice  Cream 
(see  recipe.)  Add  to  this  a  half  teaspoon 
ful  of  vanilla,  2  ounces  each  of  stoned 
cherries,  pineapple  cut  into  dice  shape, 
2  ounces  of  strawberries,  2  ounces  of 
grapes,  apricots,  peaches  and  grapes  cui 
into  small  pieces,  and  the  candied  fruits 
in  equal  proportions.  Add  a  gill  of  Sher- 
ry wine,  mix  all  the  fruits  lightly,  turn 
into  a  freezer  and  proceed  to  freeze  as 
in  Ice  Cream.     (See  recipe.) 

Again,  this  Macedoine  may  be  prepared 
by  using  instead  of  the  Lemon  Cream  a 
pint  of  syrup  made  of  sugar  and  water 
to  which  has  been  added  the  juice  of 
three  lemons. 

A  very  delightful  and  pretty  way  of 
freezing  this  Macedoine  is  to  prepare  the 
cream,  mix  the  candied  fruits  and  fresh 
fruits  together;  have  ready  a  square  ice 
cream  mold,  and  place  one-fourth  of  the 
lemon  cream  at  the  bottom;  divide  the 
fruits  into  three  parts,  and  i>lace  one 
portion  on  top  of  the  cream.  Cover  this 
w^ith  another  portion  of  cream,  and  lay 
on  top  the  fruits.  Again  cover  with  the 
cream,  and  lastly  with  the  fruits.  Fill 
up  the  mold  with  the  remaining  portion 
of  the  cream,  cover  closely,  pack  in 
broken  ice  and  rock  salt,  and  set  to  freeze 
for  two  hours.  Just  before  serving  have 
ready  a  vessel  with  warni  water,  lift  the 
mold  and  wash  off  rapidly,  being  very 
careful  to  remove  all  salt  and  ice.  Care- 
fully take  the  Macedoine  of  Fruits  from 
the  mold,  turn  into  a  cold  dessert  dish 
and  serve  immediately. 


CHAPTER   XLn. 
FBUIT    SYKUPS.     CORDIALS,     ETC. 


Des  Sirops,  des 
No  book  on  Creole  cookery  would  be 
complete  without  reference  to  those  de- 
lightful fruit  syrups  which,  under  the 
names  of  "Sirops,"  "Ratafias,"  "Granits," 
etc.,  enter  so  largely  Into  the  home  and 
social  life  of  the  Creoles.  Again,  the 
ancient  Creole  housekeepers  are  famous 
for  the  delicious  "Cordials"  or  "Liqueurs'" 
that  they  put  up  each  year.  Anisetto 
as  grateful  to  the  palate  as  that  manu- 
factured by  the  famous  French  distil- 
leries is  made  at  home  by  the  Creoles, 
as  also  various  kinds  of  domestic  wines, 
than  which  a  better  quality  could  not 
be  purchased  from  professional  man- 
ufacturers. 

Before  intering  into  a  discussion  of 
these  "Sirops"  and  "Liqueurs,"  we  will 
refer  to  the  ancient  custom  the  Creoles 
have  of  serving  sweetened  water  after  a 
hearty  meal,  and  which,  under  the  name 
of 

EAU    SUCBEE. 
has   been   handed   down   from    generation 
to   generation  as  an   integral  part  of  the 
life    of    the    Creole    household. 

To  one  glass  of  fresh  water  allow  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  or  to  a  half  glass 
allow  a  half  tablespoonful;  stir  till  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  and  drink  after  a 
hearty  meal.  Every  old  Creole  clings 
to  his  glass  of  "Eau  Sucree."  He  claims 


Liqueurs,    Etc. 

that  this  custom  accounts  for  the  sin- 
gular freedom  that  the  Creoles,  as  a 
rule,  enjoy  from  that  distressing  com- 
plaint, becoming  so  common  in  America 
— Dyspepsia.  It  is  the  rarest  thing  In 
the  world  to  hear  a  Creole  complain  of 
any  stomachic  trouble,  notwithstanding 
heavy  dinners,  numbers  of  courses,  and 
richest  viands  and  wines.  The  Eau  Su 
cree  is  passed  around  the  table  at  the 
close  of  the  meal,  and  the  children,  as 
well  as  their  elders,  enjoy  the  drink. 

Again  the  "Eau  Sucree"  is  used  by 
all  Creole  mothers  as  a  sedative  for  their 
little  ones.  Just  before  kissing  her  ba^ 
bies  "Good-night,"  the  Creole  mother 
will  give  them  a  small  glass  of  "Eau 
Sucree."  It  is  claimed  that  it  insures  di- 
gestion   and    perfect   sleep. 

STRUPS. 

Sirops. 

Under  this  heading  are  classed  those 
delightful  beverages  of  fruits  or  nuts, 
served  by  the  Creole  housewives  during 
the  summer  season.  Of  a  hot,  sultry  day, 
if  you  enter  la  well-regulated  Creole 
household,  the  first  thing  Madame  will 
do  will  be  regale  you  with  a  glass 
of  Lemonade,  or  "Iced  Orgeat,"  or  "Iced 
Pineapple,"    etc.    The   syrups    are   put  up 


227 


and  bottled  by  Madame  herself,  and  are 
always  at  hand. 

General    Directions    for    Making    Syrnps. 

The  Plain  Syrup,  that  is  the  basis  of  all 
fruit  syrups,  is  simply  sugar  and  water 
boiled  together  in  the  proportion  ot 
two  pounds  of  sugar  to  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  water.  Cook  the  sugar  and  water 
till  it  forms  the  syrup  called  "L,e  petit 
Casse"  (see  recipe  under  heading  "Sugar 
as  Employed  in  Candy-Making"),  or 
crack,  that  is,  cook  it  till  it  instantly 
snaps  asunder  when  placed  between  the 
fingers  after  dipping  them  in  cold  water 
to  enable  one  to  test.  Then  add  the 
Fruit  Syrup,  and  nrtx  thoroughly.  Let 
It  boil  for  about  five  minutes;  take  off 
the  fire  and  let  it  get  almost  cold,  then 
bottle  very  tight.  This  is  the  unvariable 
rule  to  be  followed  in  making  syrups  of 
fruits. 

One  quart  of  fruit  when  mashed  and 
pressed  will  make  a  pint  of  Fruit  Syrup, 
to  be  added  to  the  Plain  Syrup  given 
above. 

Apricot    Syrup. 

Sirop    d'Abrlcots. 

12    Pints    of    Apricot    Syrup. 

1  Gallon    of   Plain   Syrup. 

1  Ounce  of  Essence  of  Apricots. 

Pare  and  stone  the  apricots,  then  cut 
them  into  pieces,  pound  and  masli  well 
and  set  them  aside  for  thirty-six  hours 
in  a  cool  place.  Then  strain  through  a 
bag,  pressing  out  all  the  juice.  Cook 
the  sugar  and  water  till  it  forms  the 
syrup  called  "Le  Petit  Casse."  (See  gen- 
eral directions  for  Making  Syrups).  Then 
add  the  apricot  juice  and  mix  thorough- 
ly; let  it  boil  for  five  minutes,  take 
off  the  fire,  let  it  get  almost  cold,  add 
the  essence,  and  then  bottle  for  use. 

Banana    Syrup. 

Sirop    de   Bananes. 

2  Pints    of   Banana   Juice. 
1   Gallon    of   Plain    Syrup. 

1-8  Ounce  of  Banana  Essence. 
The  Juice  of  a  Lemon. 
Peel  the  bananas,  then  out  into  small 
pieces  and  pound  and  mash  well  and 
set  side  in  a  cool  place  for  thirty-six 
hours.  Then  strain  through  a  bag  and 
proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  Apricot  Syrup  (see  recipe),  and  add 
the  essence  and  lemon  juice  when  about 
to   bottle. 

Blackberry    Syrup. 

Sirop    de    Mures. 

1-2   Pint  of  Blackberry   Juice. 

1   Gallon  of  Syrup. 

Pick,  stem  and  wash  the  blackberries, 
then  pound  and  mash  them  well,  set  aside 
In  a  cool  place  for  thirty-six  hours. 
Then  strain  through  a  bag.  pre^ssing  out 
all  the  juice,  and  proceed  in  exactly  the 
same  manner  as  for  Apricot  Syrup.  (See 
recipe.) 

Cherry     Syrnp, 

Sirop    de    Cerises. 

12  Pints  of  Cherry  Juice. 

1  Gallon  of  Plain  Syrup. 
Seed  the  cherries,  and  stem,  pound  and 
mash  them  well,  and  let  them  stand 
for  thirty-six  hours  in  a  cool  place.  Then 
strain  through  a  bag.  Cook  the  sugar 
and  water  till  it  forms  the  syrup  called 
"Le  Petit  Casse,"  or  crack  (see  recipe 
under  chapter  on  Creole  candies),  that 
Is,  till,  it  instantly  snaps  asunder  when 
placed    between    the    fingers,     after    dip- 


ping them  in  cold  water,  to  enable  you 
to  test.  Then  add  the  fruit  syrups  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Let  it  boil  for  about 
five  minutes,  take  off  the  fire,  let  It 
get  almost  cold,  and  then  put  up  In 
bottles. 

Cranberry    Syrup. 

Sirop    d'Airelles. 

2    Pints    of   Cranberry   Juice. 

1  Gallon    of   Plain   Syrup. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Soluble  Essence  of  Lemon 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  for  Currant  Syrup  (see  recipe  below), 
adding  twice  the  quantity  of  sugar,  and 
adding  the  essence  after  the  syrup  has 
somewhat  cooled  and  you  are  about  to 
bottle    it. 

Currant     Syrnp. 

Sirop  de  Groseilles. 

2  Pints   of  Currant  Juice. 
1    Gallon   of   Plain    Syrup. 

Pick,  seed,  wash  and  dry  the  currant* 
carefully.  Then  pound  them  well  and 
set  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  thirty-six 
hours.  Make  a  Plain  Syrup  (see  recipe), 
and  proceed  as  in  the  General  Directions 
for  Making  Fruit  Syrups.  (See  direc- 
tions.) 

Currant    Syrup    With    Baspberriea. 

Sirop  de  Groseilles  Frambolsee. 

1    Pint    of    <5urrant    Juice. 

2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

6  Pounds  of  Currants. 

1  Pound  of  Sour  Cherries. 

1    Pound    of    Raspberries. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  .Water. 

The  cherries  and  raspberries  are  not 
necessary,  but  they  give  the  syrup  a 
most  delightful  flavor  and  aroma.  Pick, 
wash,  seed  and  dry  the  currants  care- 
fully. Seed  the  cherries,  and  stem  them 
and  the  raspberries,  pound  and  mash 
them  well,  and  let  them  stand  for  thirty- 
six  hours  in  a  cool  place.  Then  strain 
through  a  bag.  Cook  the  sugar  and 
water  till  it  forms  the  syrup  called  "Le 
Petit  Casse,"  or  crack,  that  is,  till  it 
instantly  snaps  asunder  when  placed  be- 
tween the  fingers,  after  dipping  them  In 
cold  water,  to  enable  you  to  test.  Then 
add  the  fruit  syrups,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Let  it  boil  for  about  five  minutes,  take 
off  the  fire,  let  it  get  almost  cold, 
and   then   put   up   in   bottles. 

Grape   Syrup. 

Sirop    de    Raisins. 

1  Gallon  Plain  Syrup. 

2  Pints   of  Grape   Juice. 

1-2  Pint  of  Grape  or  Catawba  "Wine. 

Pick,  wash,  stem  and  seed  the  grapes; 
then  pound  and  mash  well,  and  set 
aside  in  a  cool  place  for  thirty-six  hours. 
Then  strain  through  a  bag,  pressing  out 
all  the  juice;  make  a  Plain  Syrup,  and 
proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  Currant  Syrup,  and  add  the  wine 
when    you    are    about   to    bottle. 

Lemon     Syrnp. 

Sirop    de    Citron. 

8  Ounces  of  Lemon  Juice. 

15  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Extract  of  Lemon. 

Press    the   juice    from    the    lemons    and 

grate    the    zest    of    four    into    the    syrup, 

set  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  six  or  eight 

hours.     Then   strain   carefully  through  a 

bag.      Make    a    Plain    Syrup,    using    the 

proportions  of  fifteen  ounces  of  sugar  to 


228 


a  pint  and  a  half  of  water.  Prepare  a 
srallon  of  syrup,  and  then  proceed  as 
in  the  General  Directions  for  Making 
Syrups  (see  directions).  Add  the  essence 
when   about  to   bottle. 

Lime    Synip. 

Sirop    de    Limons. 

2  Pints  of  Lime  Juice. 

1  Gallon  of  Plain  Syrup. 

1-2   Ounce    of   Soluble   Essence   of   Limes. 

Proceed    in    exactly    the    same    manner 

as  for  Lemon  Syrup,  and  add  the  es- 
sence   when    about    to    bottle. 

Orange     Syrup. 

Sirop     d'Orange. 

2  Quarts  of  Orange  Juice. 
1  Gallon  of  Plain  Syrup. 
1    Ounce    of    Lemon    Juice. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  for  Lemon  Syrup,  and  bottle  when 
almost  cold.  This  is  a  standing  Creole 
Syrup. 

Orgeat     Syrup. 

Sirop     d'Orgeat. 

1    Pound    of    Sweet    Almonds. 

4    Ounces   of    Bitter  Almonds. 

2  Pounds   of   Sugar.     1   Quart   of  Water. 

2    Ounces    of    Orange    Flower    Water. 

The  Zest   of^a   Lemon. 

r>o  not  throw  the  Almonds  into  hot 
water  and  blanch  them,  as  in  other 
recipes  for  almonds,  but  throw  them  into 
cold  water,  after  shelling  them,  uTTlU 
the  peeling  or  skin  comes  off  easily. 
Then  mash  them  and  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  till  they  are  reduced  to  a  fine 
powder,  adding,  from  time  to  time,  a 
little  water  and  the  well-grated  zest  of 
the  lemon.  When  this  paste  is  perfectly 
made,  moisten  it  with  one-half  of  the 
water,  and  then  squeeze  it  hard  through 
a  linen  cloth,  each  end  of  which  is  held 
by  some  one,  when  you  will  have  drained 
thoroughly  of  all  milk.  Then  return  the 
paste  to  the  mortar,  throw  over  the  rest 
of  the  water,  mix  thoroughly,  pounding 
well,  and  then  squeeze  again  through 
the  towel.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  farina 
boiler,  and  let  it  boil,  to  the  degree  of 
"Le  Petit  Casse,"  or  crack,  that  is,  till 
it  forms  a  thich  syrup  that  will  not 
cling  to  the  teeth  in  tasting,  or  instantly 
snaps  asunder  between  the  fingers  after 
testing  in  cold  water.  Then  take  the 
syrup  off  the  fire  and  add  the  milk 
of  almonds,  stirring  well.  Return  it  to 
the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  until 
it  begins  to  boil.  Let  it  boil  for  several 
minutes.  Then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let 
it  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  orange 
flower  water,  and  mix  well.  Then  drain 
all  through  a  cloth  or  bag,  and  fill  and 
seal    the    bottles.  -' 

Orgeat,  being  made  of  the  milk  of 
almonds,  easily  decomposes  or  sours,  be- 
cause the  oil  of  almonds,  being  lighter 
than  the  other  ingredients,  rises  to  the 
top.  For  this  reason,  it  is  well  to  IooIt 
at  the  bottles  frequently,  and  shake  them 
daily.  This  will  preserve  the  exact  ming- 
ling of  the  mixture,  and  also  preserve  the 
Orgeat  for  use. 

Use  only  the  finest  white  loaf  sugar 
in  making  Orgeat  Syrup. 

Peach     Syrup. 

Sirop    de    Peches. 

2  Pints  of  Peach  Juic«. 

1  Gallon  of  Plain  Syrup. 

1-2    Ounce   of    Peach    Essence. 


Pare  and  stone  the  peaches,  then  pound 
and  mash  well  and  set  aside  in  a  cool 
place  for  thirty-six  hours.  Strain 
through  a  bag,  pressing  out  all  the 
juice,  then  proceed  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  for  Apricot  Syrup,  and  add 
the  essence  as  the  syrup  cools  and  you 
are  about  to  bottle  it. 

Pineapple    Syrup. 
Sirop     d'Ananas. 

2    Pints    of    Pineapple    Juice. 
1  Gallon  of  Plain  Syrup. 
1    Ounce    of   Lemon   Juice, 

Pare  the  pineappjes,  cutting  out  the 
eyes  and  the  core.  Then  cut  into  very  fine 
pieces  and  mash  and  pound  well,  or- 
grate  the  pineapple,  which  is  better.  Set 
aside  for  thirty-six  hours  in  a  cool  place." 
Then  strain  through  a  fine  muslin  bag, 
pressing  out  all  the  juice.  Then  make 
a  Plain  Syrup  and  proceed  as  in  the 
General  Directions  for  Making  Fruit 
Syrups.     (See  directions.) 

Plum    Syrup. 

Sirop    de    Prunes. 

2  Pints  of  Plum  Juice. 
1    Gallon   of   Plain   Syrup. 

Stone  the  plums,  pound  and  mash  well 
and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  thirty- 
six  hours.  Then  proceed  in  exactly  the 
same  -manner  as  in  the  recipe  for  Apri- 
cot  Syrup.      (See   recipe.) 

Strawberry    Syrup. 
Sirop    de    Fraises. 

2   Pints   of   Strawberry   Syrup. 

1    Gallon    of   Plain    Syrup. 
1  Ounce  of  Raspberry  Essence. 

Pick,  stem  and  wash  the  strawberries, 
then  pound  and  mash  them  well,  and  let 
them  stand  for  thirty-six  hours  in  a 
cool  place.  Then  strain  through  a  bag. 
Cook  the  sugar  and  water  till  it  forms 
the  syrup  called  "Le  Petit  (jasse,"  or 
crack,  that  is,  till  it  instantly  snaps  asun- 
der when  placed  between  the  fingers, 
after  dipping  them  in  cold  water,  to 
enable  you  to  test.  Then  add  the  fruit 
syrups,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Let  it 
boil  for  about  five  minutes,  take  off 
the  fire,  let  it  get  almost  cold,  and  then 
put  up  in  bottles. 

Raspberry    Syrup. 

Sirop    de    Framboises. 

2  Pints    of   Raspberry    Syrup. 
1   Gallon    of   Plain    Syrup. 

1  Ounce  of  Raspberry  Essence. 

Pick,  stem  and  wash  the  berries  and 
proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  Strawberry  Syrup,  adding  the  essence 
when    about    to    bottle. 

Vanilla    Syrupp. 

Sirop    de    Vanille. 

1  Gallon    of   Plain    Syrup. 

3  Ounces  of  Extract  of  Vanilla. 

1-4    Ounce    of    Caramel. 

Boil  the  syrup  and  add  the  Caramel. 
(See  recipe.)  Drain  and  then  add  the 
essence   of  vanilla.     Stir  well   and  bottle. 

Blackberry    Vinegar. 

Vinaigre     de     Mures. 

2  Quarts    of    Blackberries. 

1   Quart   of   Good    French   Vinegar. 
Put    one     quart     of     blackberries    into 
a    jar    or    deep    vessel,    and    pour    over 
the  vinegar.     Let  them  stand  for  twenty- 
four    hours    longer.      Strain    them   again, 


229 


and  again  add  the  fruit,  repeating  tliis 
operation  and  letting  stand  twenty-four 
hours  three  times.  Then  strain  through 
a  mustard  bag,  and  add  one  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  every  pint  of  the  liquor, 
and  boil  the  whole  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
for  half  an  hour.  When  cold  bottle  it 
and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  Blackberry 
Vinegar  made  after  this  manner  will 
keep  for  years,  improving  with  age. 

Currant  Vinegar  and  Cherry  Vinegar 
are  prepared  in  the  same  manner  a^ 
above. 

Orang:e    Vinegar, 

Vinaigre  d'Oranges. 

36   Oranges. 

1   Quart  of   Good  French   Cider. 

Sugar    in    proportion    of    Two-Thirds    of 

a   Pound    to    1    Quart    of    Orange    Syrup. 

Peel  the  oranges.  Slice  them  very  thin 
and  cover  with  pure  cider  vinegar,  and 
let  them  stand  for  three  or  four  days. 
Then  mash  them  through  a  cloth,  strain- 
ing as  long  as  the  juice  runs  clear. 
To  every  quart  of  juice  allow  one  and 
two-thirds  pounds  of  fine  white  sugar. 
Then  boil  all  together  for  about  ten 
minutes,  and  skim  very  carefully,  until 
no  scum  rises .  upon  the  surface.  Then 
take  the  mixture  from  the  fire,  and  when 
it  cools  somewhat,  bottle  it.  Put  a 
tablespoonful  of"  this  extract  in  a  glass 
of  cold  ice  ^^ter  -in  warm  weather, 
and  you  will  Have  one  of  the  most  re- 
freshing   of    the    Creole    summer    drinks. 

Pineapple    Vinegar. 
Vinaigre    d'Ananas. 

3    Pineapples. 

1    Quart    of    Pure    Cider    Vinegar. 

Sugar    in   the    Proportion    of   Two-Thirds 

of  a   Pound   to    One   Quart   of   the   Juice. 

Cover  with  pineapples,  which  you  will 
have  nicely  sliced,  with  pure  cider  vin- 
egar, and  let  them  stand  for  three  or 
four  days.  Then  mash  them  through 
a  cloth,  straining  as  long  as  the  juice 
runs  clear.  To  every  quart  of  juice 
allow  one  and  two-thirds  pounds  of 
fine  white  sugar.  Then  boil  all  together 
for  about  ten  minutes,  and  skim  very 
carefully,  until  no  scum  rises  upon  the 
surface.  Then  take  the  mixture  from 
the    fire,    and    when    it    cools    somewhat 


bottle  it.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  this 
extract  in  a  glass  of  cold  ice  water  in 
warm  weather,  and  serve  as  a  summer 
drink. 

Raspberry    Vinegar. 

Vinaigre  de  Framboises. 

2    Quarts    of    Raspberries. 

1    Quart    of   Good    French   Vinegar. 

Put  one  quart  of  raspberries  into  a 
jar  or  deep  vessel,  and  pour  over  the 
vinegar.  Let  them  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  and  then  strain  through  a 
jelly  bag,  and  add  the  other'  quart  of 
raspberries,  and  let  them  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours  longer.  Strain  them 
again,  and  again  add  the  fruit,  repeating 
this  operation  of  straining  and  letting 
stand  twenty-four  hours  three  times. 
Then  strain  through  a  muslin  bag,  and 
add  one  pound  of  white  sugar  to  every 
pint  of  the  liquor,  and  boil  the  whole  in 
a  porcelain  kettle  for  half  an  hour.  WTien 
cold,  bottle  it  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 
Raspberry  Vinegar  made  after  this  man- 
ner will  keep  for  years,  improving  with 
age.  The  Creoles  always  keep  it  with 
Strawberry  Vinegar  or  Blackberry  Vine- 
gar on  hand,  simply  putting  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  it  in  a  glass  of  sweetened  ice  water. 
It  is  a  most  refreshing  summer  bever- 
age, and  is  especially  grateful  to  the 
sick  and  delicate. 

strawberry    Vinegar. 

Vinaigre  de  Fraises. 

2  Quarts  of  Strawberries. 
1  Quart  of  Good  French  Vinegar. 
Put  one  quart  of  strawberries  into 
a  jar  or  deep  vessel,  and  pour  over  the 
vinegar.  Let  them  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  and  then  strain  through  a 
jelly  bag  and  add  the  other  quart  of 
the  strawberries,  and  let  them  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours  longer.  Strain  them 
again,  and  again  add  the  fruit,  repeating 
this  operation  of  straining  and  letting 
stand  twenty-four  hours  three  times. 
Then  strain  through  a  muslin  bag  and 
add  one  pound  of  white  sugar  to  every 
pint  of  the  liquor,  and  boil  the  whole  in 
a  porcelain  kettle  for  half  an  hour. 
Vi^hen  cold,  bottle  it  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place. 


CHAPTER    XLIII. 
DOMESTIC     WINES,     CORDIAI-S    AND     DRINKS. 

Vins,   Liqueurs   et    Boissons   de  Menage. 


Under  this  heading  are  comprised  a 
great  variety  of  fruits  distilled  in  wine, 
or  alcohol,  or  brandy,  and  sweetened  or 
flavored  with  aromatic  substances.  These 
preparations  are  called  according  to  their 
mode  of  preparation,  "Ratafias,"  "Gran- 
its,"  "Liqueurs,"  or  "Fruits  a  I'Eau-de- 
Vie."  The  Creoles  always  make  their 
own  anisettes,  cordials  and  other  liqueurs. 

RATAFIAS. 

These  are  pleasant  beverages  much 
affected  by  the  Creoles,  and  are  very 
easily  prepared  by  the  infusion  of  the 
juices  of  fruits  or  of  the  fruits  them- 
selves, nuts  and  odorous  flowers,  in  good 
French  Brandy.  To  these  are  often  add- 
ed various  aromatic  substances  capable 
of  imparting  a  delightful  flavor  to  the 
liqueur. 

A  Ratafia  Liqueur  is  much  more  easily 
prepared  than  a  cordial:  the  preparation 
requires  far  less  time,  and  there  is  no 
necessity  of  a  distilling  apparatus.  Our 
Louisiana    fruits     are     very    juicy,     and. 


therefore,  no  other  liquor  than  good 
French  Brandy  is  or  should  ever  be  used 
in  preparing  a  fruit  Ratafia.  The  berries 
should  always  be  well  bruised,  to  ren- 
der the  Ratafia  aromatic,  and  the  seeds 
should  be  well  pounded.  If  flowers  are 
used,  thev  should  be  just  withered  and 
steened.  Water  should  be  used  very  spar- 
ingly and  only  in  sufficient  quantity  to 
aid  in  the  diffusion  and  dissolving  of  the 

su2-ar.  ,     .     .  .      T 

The  length  of  time  that  is  required 
for  the  infusion  must  always  be  in  pro- 
portion to  the  nature  of  the  aroma.  Gooa 
judgment  must  be  the  final  test.  If  the 
infusion  is  too  short,  the  flavor  will  be 
weak  and  sometimes  insipid;  if  too  long, 
you  will  have  a  bitter  and  acrid  liquor. 

In  order  to  separate  the  Ratafia,  the 
liquor  must  be  decanted  after  infusion 
and  strained.  It  should  always,  however, 
be  allowed  to  stand  long  enough  to  settle 
well  before  the  Ratafia  is  bottled,  or 
there  will  be  a  quick  deposit  of  sediment, 
or  the  liquor   will   be  turbid  and  murky. 


230 


All  Ratafias  must  be  bottled  and  very 
closely  sealed.  It  is  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance that  they  be  kept  in  cool,  shady 
places,  else  the  spirits  will  evaporate  and 
the  liqueur  itself  will  slowly  but  surely 
decompose. 

Proportions    of    Ingredients    for    Batafia 
Liqueurs. 

In    making    Ratafias    observe    the    fo-l 
lowing     proportions     in     mixing     the     in- 
gredients: 

To  three  parts  of  the  filtered  juice  of 
any  kind  of  fruits  or  berries  add  one 
quart  of  feood  old  French  Cognac,  three 
pounds  of  white  loaf  sugar,  clarified, 
with  three  pints  of  water,  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  Essence  of  Cloves,  "Vanilla 
and    Cinnamon. 

These  should  be  thoroughly  mixed  and 
amalgamated ;  then  the  Ratafia  should 
be  bottled  and  sealed  and  labeled.  D  > 
not  use  until  the  end  of  six  months; 
twelve  months'  standing  will  produce  a 
far  finer  cordial.  The  Creoles  prepare 
their  Christmas  and  New  Tear  cordials  a 
year  in  advance,  and  also  the  Ratafias, 
which  are  served  with  crushed  ice  in 
summer. 

Use  filtered  Mississippi  river  water  in 
making  all  cordials  and  Ratafias,  and 
only  the  finest  clarified  white  loaf  sugar. 
How     to     Filter     Cordials    and     Ratafias. 

The  filtering  Is  of  the  utmost  impor- 
tance. A  good  home-made  filter  may 
be  improvised  by  fitting  a  piece  of  felt 
into  a  funnel,  very  closely.  Some  use 
flannel,  but  the  felt  is  far  better.  Filter- 
ing paper  is  sold  by  all  druggists.  Put 
the  funnel  in  the  mouth  of  the  bottle, 
fit  in  the  paper,  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
let  It  filter  slowly.  Again,  others  usd 
the  ordinary  brown  or  white  paper,  but 
this  allows  the  aroma  to  escape,  and 
the  taste  of  the  paper  clings  to  the  cor- 
dial. If  you  wish  the  cordial  to  be  very 
transparent,  take  very  dry,  clear,  trans- 
parent isinglass,  and  cut  it  very,  very 
thin.  Then  dissolve  it  with  White  win3 
until  it  is  perfectly  liquid.  Put  it  Into 
bottles  and  preserve  for  use.  When  need- 
ed, coat  the  inside  of  the  strainer  wifi 
this,  using  a  light  brush  or  sponge.  It 
will  form  a  glue  around  the  funnel.  Pour 
the  cordial  or  liqueur  through  this, 
straining  several  times,  again  and  again, 
until  it  becomes  perfectly  transparent. 
Strain  it  the  last  time  into  bottle,  and 
seal  very  tight.  Tou  will  then  have  a 
clear,  limpid  cordial  or  liqueur  that  will 
not  have  lost  its  aroma  by  evaporation. 

This  simple  method  may  be  understood 
by  even  a  child,  and  home-made  cor- 
dials are  not  only  very  delightful,  but 
far  less  expensive  than  the  imported  ones. 
Always  have  the  Cognac  as  old  as  pos- 
sible. 

Absinthe    or    Wormwood    Ratafia, 

Ratafia  d'Absinthe. 

4  Pounds    of   Wormwood. 

8   Ounces    of   Juniper   Berries. 

2    Ounces    of   Ground    Cinnamon. 

4  Drams  of  Angelica  Rum. 
4  Pints   of  Good  French  Brandy. 

Bruise  and  pound  the  wormwood  and 
Juniper  berries,  and  steep  them  with  four 
pints  of  Brandy  and  the  Angelica  Rum 
for  twenty  days.  Then  distill  the  mix- 
ture till  it  is  reduced  to  three  pounds,  and 
re-distill  till  this  is  reduced  to  two  pounds 
or  two  pints.  Then  add  two  and  a  half 
pounds  of  fine  white  powdered  sugar 
and  two  pints  of  water,  filtered,  and 
eight  ounces  of  do-ubly-distilled  orange 
flower   water.     Filter   and   bottle. 


Aniseed    Batafia. 

Ratafia  d'Anis. 

4  Ounces  of  Aniseed. 

2  Pints   of   Good   French  Cognac. 

1  Pint   of   Water. 

11-2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

Bruise  the  aniseed  and  steep  them  for 
one  month  in  the  Brandy.  Then  pass 
them  through  a  sieve.  Add  a  syrup  made 
of  one  pint  of  water  and  one  pound  and 
a  half  of  sugar.     Filter  and  bottle. 

If  you  wish  to  make  it  in  larger  quan- 
tities, take  two  ounces  of  green  aniseed, 
four  ounces  of  star  aniseed,  and  after 
bruising  and  pounding  the  seeds  well 
steep  them  in  seven  quarts  of  good 
Brandy  for  one  month.  Then  strain  and 
add  a  syrup  niade  of  six  pounds  and  & 
half  of  sugar  and  two  quarts  of  river 
water,  filtered.  Mix  well  and  then  filter 
and  bottle. 

Angelica  Ratafia. 

Ratafia  d'Angelique. 

4  Ounces  of  Angelica  Stalk  or  Ijeaves. 

1  Ounce  of  Angelica  Seed. 

1  Drachm  of  Nutmeg. 

1-2   Drams   of  Ceylon   Cinnamon. 

1  Dram   of   Coriander  Seed. 

1-2  Dram  of  Cloves. 

Bruise  the  seeds  and  leaves  well  by 
pounding,  and  steep  for  two  months  in  an 
earthen  pitcher,  well  covered,  having 
added  all  the  spices,  etc.  Then  take  out, 
strain  and  add  a  syrup  made  of  four  and 
a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar  and  two  and 
a  half  pints  of  water.  Filter  and  bottle. 
and   keep  in  a  cool   place. 

If  you  wish  to  make  it  in  smaller  quan- 
tities, to  four  ounces  of  Angelica  allow 
one  pint  of  good  Brandy,  one-half  pint 
of  water,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  spices 
in   proportion.  f 

Orange    Flow^er    Ratafia. 

Ratafia  a  la  Fleur  d'Oranges. 

2  Pounds  of  Orange  Blossoms. 

10  Pints  of  Brandy. 

4  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1 3-4   Pints   of   Water. 

Steep  two  pounds  of  orange  blossoms, 
well  bruised  and  pounded,  in  ten  and  a 
half  pints  of  good  Brandy  for  fifteen 
days,  and  then  add  a  syrup  made  of  four 
pounds  of  sugar  and  one  and  three-quar- 
ters pints  of  water.     Filter  and  bottle. 

Or  take  a  half  pound  of  orange  flower 
blossoms,  and  infuse  them  in  four  pints 
of  good  Brandy  for  five  days.  Strain 
through  a  sieve,  add  a  syrup  made  of 
three  pounds  of  sugar  and  two  pints  of 
water,   filter   and   bottle. 

FRUIT    RATAFIAS. 

Ratafia  de  Fruits. 

In  all  Fruit  Ratafias,  whether  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  blackberries,  dam- 
sons, cherries,  plums,  red  and  black  cur- 
rants, use  the  proportions  given  above 
for  "Raspberry  Ratafia,"  if  large  quan- 
tities are  desired,  and  the  proportions 
given  in  "Proportions  of  Ingrredients  for 
Ratafia  Liqueurs"  if  less.  Always  mix 
thoroughly  and  amalgamate  well.  Bottle 
in  pint  bottles,  well  corked  and  sealed, 
and  do  not  use  for  at  least  six  months. 

Orange   Ratafia. 

Ratafia  d'Oranges. 

3  Oranges. 

The  Zest  of  3  Oranges. 

1  Pint  of  Brandy.     1  Pound  of  Sugar. 


231 


Grate  the  zest  of  three  fine  Louisiana 
oranges  very,  very  fine.  Place  this  oil 
or  zest  which  you  will  have  rubbed  on 
one  po-und  of  powdered  sugar  in  a  jar, 
add  one  pint  of  good  Brandy  or  Alcohol, 
and  the  fuice  of  three  fine  oranges,  from 
which  you  will  have  taken  out  the  seeds. 
Let  the  infusion  stand  for  three  days, 
then   filter   and   bottle   for  use. 

Peach  Kernel  Ratafia. 

Ratafia    aux    Noyau    de    Peches     cu 

d'Abricots. 

1-2    Pound    Bach    of    Peach    or    Apricot 

Kernels. 

4  Pints  of  Brandy. 

21-2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

2  Pints  of  "Water. 

Pound  the  peach  or  apricot  kernels — 
some  also  pound  the  peach  stones — steep 
them  for  cne  whole  month  in  four  pints 
of  Brandy  in  an  earthen  jar,  and  at  the 
end  of  that  time  add  a  syrup  made  of 
two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  and  two 
pints  of  water.  Mix  well  together,  and 
laen  filter  as  directed  above,  and  bottle 
and  seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  shady  place. 

Pomegranate  Ratafia. 

Ratafia   de    Grenades. 

IB  Ripe  Pomegranates. 

4   Quarts    of   Good   French    Brandy. 

3  Po'unds  of  Sugar. 

Cut  the  pomegranates  in  slices  and 
steep  them  for  fifteen  days  in  the  Brandy. 
Then  squeeze  through  a  cloth,  add  a 
syrup  made  with  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
and  filter  and  bottle  for  use. 

Raspberry   Ratafia. 

Ratafia  de  Framiboises. 

8  Pounds  of  Raspberries. 

2  Gallons   of   Brandy. 

7  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

3   Quarts  of   Water. 

Steep  the  berries,  which  you  will  have 

mashed  well,  for  one  month,  or  at  least 

fifteen  days,  in  the  Brandy,  and  then  add 

a  syrup   made    of   the    sugar   and   water 

Filter  and  proceed  to  bottle  as  directed. 

If  smaller  proportions  are  desired,  us-s 
the  quantities  given  in  general  "Propor- 
tions of  Ingredients  for  Ratafias."  The 
larger  proporticms  are  also  given,  because 
the  longer  the  Ratafia  stands  the  better 
it  is,  and  it  is  much  easier  to  make  a 
quantity  at  a  time  that  will  last  several 
seasons. 

Ratafia    of   Four    Fruits. 

Ratafia  des  Quatre  Fruits. 

12  Pounds  of  Fine,  Ripe  Cherries. 

3  Pounds  of  Sour  Cherries. 

3  Pounds   of  Currants. 

3  Pounds   of  Raspberries. 

1  Pint  of  the  Best  French  Brandy. 

4    Ounces    of    S'ugar    to    Every    Pint    of 

Fruit  Liquor. 

Stone  the  fruit  and  stem  the  berries. 
Put  all  together  in  a  bowl,  and  mash 
well.  Let  the  fruit  stand  for  two  hours. 
Then  press  out  the  iuice  through  a  cloth 
or  sieve.  Add  one  pint  of  the  best  French 
Brandy  and  four  ounces  of  sugar  to 
every  pint  of  liquor  cbtained.  Put  in  a 
stone  jar.  cover  tight,  and  let  it  stand 
for  a  month.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
strain  and  filter.  Then  bottle  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place. 

Strawberry  Ratafia. 

Ratafia  de  Fraises. 
8  Pounds  of  Strawberries. 
2  Gallons  of  Brandy. 
7  Pounds  cf  Sugar. 
3  Quarts  of  Water. 


Steep  the  berries,  which  you  will  have 
mashed  well,  for  one  month,  or  at  least 
fifteen  days.  In  the  Brandy,  and  then  add 
a  syrup  made  of  the  sugar  and  water. 
Filter  and  proceed  to  bottle  as  directed. 

If  smaller  proportions  are  desired,  use 
the  quantities  given  in  general  "Propor- 
tions of  Ingredients  fcr  Ratafias."  The 
larger  proportions  are  also  given  because 
the  longer  the  Ratafia  stands  the  better 
it  is,  and  it  is  much  easier  to  make  a 
quantity  at  a  time  that  will  last  severa! 
seasons. 

FRUIT    WATERS. 

Eau   de  Fruits   Glaces. 

These  are  famous  Creole  summer  bev- 
erages, and  are  always  served  to  friends 
when  visiting  of  an  evening,  or  at  eve- 
ning receptions  and  reunions  in  summer. 
They  are  made,  for  the  most  part,  of 
fruit  juices  and  syrups,  but  they  are  also 
made  of  different  kinds  of  punch,  and 
from  coffee. 

The  Orangeade,  the  Orgeat  and  tha 
Lemonade,  with  the  Claret  Cup,  are  the 
principal.  Unlike  the  Ratafias,  they  are 
served  soon  after  concoction.  In  freez- 
ing, the  Creoles  put  the  mixture  into 
water  bottles  or  earthen  jugs.  These  are 
set  on  ice  and  twirled  arooind.  As  the 
contents  become  frozen  a  wooden  spatula 
is  thrust  into  the  jar  for  the  purpose  nf 
scraping  down  the  portion  that  is  froze'i 
into  the   liquid    center. 

Aromatic    Water. 

Eau   Aromatique 

The  Zest  of  3  Limes. 

The  Zest  C'f  4  Lemons. 

4    Ounces   of   Orange    Flowers. 

1    Ounce   of  Sweet   Basil. 

6  Ounces  of  Hoarhound. 

7  Pints  of  Brandy  or  Alcohol. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1  Quart  of  Distilled  Water. 

Take  the  grated,  macerated  zests  of  the 
limes  and  lemons  and  the  bruised  fresh 
orange  blossoms,  Basil  and  White  Hcar- 
hou.id,  and  steep  it  in  seven  pints  of  fiiie 
French  Brandy  or  Alcohol  for  ten  days. 
Then  distill  the  liquor  by  heating  in  a 
water  bath  and  covering  the  saucepan 
with  a  piece  of  kid,  in  which  you  have 
made  small  holes  Add  a  syrup  made 
of  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  quart 
of  distilled  water;  strain  after  mixing 
well,   and   bottle   for   use. 

Cherry  Water. 

Eau    de    Cerises. 

2  Pounds   of  CTierries. 
1   Lemon.     8   Ounces  of  Sugar. 

Stone  the  cherries  and  press  the  juice 
from  the  pulp  into  a  porcelain  vessel,  and 
then  add  a  little  water  and  the  juice  ot 
one  lemon.  Stir  well,  and  let  stand  for 
two  hours.  Then  wash  the  stones  well 
and  pound  them  fine,  and  add  to  the 
Ciierries,  and  add  eight  ounces  of  sugar. 
Let  all  stand  one  hour.  Then  strain 
the  mixture  and  stir  well  and  filter.  Set 
on  ice  till  ready  to  use  Serve  in  glasses 
with   crushed   ice.  ■ 

LEMONABE. 
Limonade. 

Lemonade  is  among  the  most  delight- 
ful and  most  commonly  used  of  all  fruit 
waters.  There  are  few  homes  in  New 
Orleans  in  which  it  is  not  a  standing 
offering  for  family  use  and  for  visitors 
during  the  hours  of  the  long  summer 
day.  Lemonade  is  always  served  very 
cold  in  summer,  but  there  is  a  hot  lem- 


232 


onade,  which  is  extensively  used  by  the 
Creoles  during  winter  days  for  various 
purposes,   mostly  medicinal. 

Iced    Lemonade. 

Limonade  Glacee, 

1   Dozen   Lemons.     1  Pound   of  Sugar. 
2   Quarts  of  Water.     Cracked  Ice. 

Choose  the  finest  and  freshest  ripe 
lemons.  Rasp  the  rind  with  white, 
crushed  sugar,  in  order  to  extract  tho 
fine  aromatic  oil  that  lurks  in  the  zest. 
Then  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  lemon, 
and  strain  it,  and  add  the  sugar  and  the 
necessary  quantity  of  water.  In  making 
lemonade  never  use  the  rinds  of  the 
lemons,  except  to  slice  one  daintily  and 
place  in  the  glass  when  about  to  serve 
the  lemonade.  The  rind  simply  put  in  o 
the  lemonade  does  not  add  to  the 
strength,  but  imparts  a  bitter  and  often 
disagreeable  flavor.  Extract  the  fine  oils 
in  the  rind  by  rasping,  as  indicated,  on 
crushed  sugar.  In  making  cold  lemonade 
for  six  persons,  allow  six  ounces  of  sugar 
to  five  lemons,  and  one  quart  of  water. 
Increase  the  quantity  in  proportion  to 
number  to  be  served.  Serve  with  crushed 
ice. 

Hot  Lemonade. 

Limonade   Chaude. 

6    Lemons.     2    Quarts    of    Water. 
1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Boil  tne  lemons  whole  and  unpeeled 
till  the  water  is  reduced  to  one  quart. 
Sweeten  and  serve.  Or  proceed  in  ex- 
actly the  same  manner  as  above,  using 
hot  water  instead  of  cold.  The  Creoles 
sometimes  boil  the  lemons  when  used  for 
medicinal    purposes. 

Frog:    Lemonade. 

2   Dozen    Lemons. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

2  Quarts   of   Water.     1   Pineapple. 

2  Bottles  of  Seltzer  Water. 

3  Dozen  Fine  Strawberries. 

Take  a  large  punch  bowl.  Put  Into  it 
one  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, the  juice  of  two  dozen  lemons,  the 
juice  of  one  pineapple,  two  bottles  ot 
seltzer  water.  Mix  all  well.  Add  three 
dozen  fine,  large  strawberries,  and  dec- 
orate with  slices  of  pineapple  and  lemon 
sliced  very  thin.  In  case  there  is  no'; 
sufficient  sugar,  sweeten  again  to  taste. 
Put  a  large  piece  of  ice  in  the  bowl. 
When  ready  to  sterve,  fill  glasses  one- 
quarter  full  of  crushed  ice,  and  fill  up 
with  the  lemonade  (being  careful  to  have 
several  strawberries  and  a  slice  or  two 
of  lemon  and  pineapple  in  each  glass » 
This  lemonade  is  delicious. 

]>rilk    of    Almonds. 
Orgeat. 

6   Ounces   of  Almonds. 

1  Ounce  of  Bitter  Almonds. 

8  Ounces  of  Loaf  Sugar. 

3  Pints    of    Filtered    River    Water. 
1-2  Gill   of  Orange  Flower  Water. 

Blanch  and  peel  the  almonds,  and  soak 
them  in  cold  water  for  several  hours. 
Then  pound  them  thoroughly  into  a  pulp, 
adding  as  you  pound  a  half  gill  of  orange 
flower  water.  Put  this  into  an  earthen 
vessel  with  eight  ounces  of  the  finest 
and  whitest  loaf  sugar.  Add  three  pints 
of  clear,  filtered  water,  and  then  stir  all 
well  together.  Return  to  the  mortar. 
Ir'ound  well  and  strain  Stir  well  and 
set  the  vessel  on  ice.  At  the  end  of  an 
hour  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  This  Is  a 
delightful  summer  drink. 


Orange    Water. 

Eau   d'Orange. 

The  Zest  of  6  Louisiana  Oranges. 
4  Ounces  o^  Orange  Blossoms. 

7  Pints  of  Brandy. 
4  Pounds  of  Fine  White  Sugar. 

3  Quarts  of  Water. 

Macerate  the  zests  of  the  oranges  and 
orange  blossoms  and  orange  juice  in  the 
Brandy  for  eight  days.  Then  distill  In 
a  "bain-marie,"  or  water  bath,  as  indi- 
cated. Add  a  syrup  made  of  four  pounds 
of  sugar  and  three  pints  of  water,  strain 
and  filter,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Strawberry  Water, 

Eau  de  Fraises. 

1-2   Pint   of  Strawberry   Juice. 

1  Quart  of   Water. 

8    Ounces    of    Sugar. 

Choose  fine  ripe  strawberries,  9tem  and 
bruise  them  in  a  little  water,  and  let 
them  stand  for  an  hour  or  so.  Then 
squeeze  them  in  a  cloth  and  pour  the 
juice  off  clear.  To  half  a  pint  of  the 
juice  add  one  quart  of  water  and  eight 
ounces  of  sugar.  Stir  well,  strain,  and 
put  it  on  ice,  and  serve  as  needed  during 
the  sultry  summer  days. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  water  may  be 
made  in  the  same  way,  as  also  Pineapple 
and    Orange. 

ORANGEADE. 

3  Oranges. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

4  Ounces  of  Sugar. 
1  1-2   Pints    of   Water. 

The  oranges  must  be  ripe,  juicy  Lou- 
isiana oranges.  Peel  one  orange  and  cut 
it  in  thin  slices  lengthw^ise,  and  then  put 
it  into  a  vessel  with  four  ounces  of  sugar 
and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water.  Squeeze 
the  juice  of  the  lemc-n  and  two  more 
oranges  into  another  vessel,  and  stir  well. 
Then  pour  it  on  the  sliced  orange.  Let 
it  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  and  it  is 
ready   to   use.     Strain  if  you  desire. 

CREAM    SYRUPS. 

Sirops  a  la  Creme. 

Cream  Syrups  are  distinctively  French, 
and  were  introduced  into  America  by  the 
French  settlers  of  Louisiana.  The  early 
Creole  Settlers  of  New  Orleans  applied 
the  French  methods  of  making  syrups  to 
our  fruits,  flowers,  herbs,  etc.,  and  thus 
we  have  distinctive  Creole  Cream  Syrup.«:. 
Cream   Syrups  are  lighter  than  Ratafia:?. 

Absinthe    Cream. 

Creme   d'Absinthe. 

7  Pints  of  Brandy. 

1-2   Pound   of   Wormwood  Heads. 

The  Zest  of  2  Lemons. 

2   Oranges,  Thinly  Sliced. 

6  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

3  Pints  of  Water. 

?ound  the  wormwc-od  and  infuse  it  for 
two  days  in  the  Brandy  with  the  zest  of 
the  lemons  or  the  sliced  oranges.  Then 
distill  the  liquor  to  one-half  the  quantity. 
Dissolve  six  pounds  of  the  finest  white 
sugar  in  three  pints  of  water,  let  it  cot>l 
and  mix  thoroughlv  with  the  Brandy  and 
wormwood.  Then  strain  it  and  put  in 
tightly   corked   bottles. 


2J3 


Bay   Leaf   Cream. 

Creme   de   Laurier. 

3  1-2  Ounces  of  Laurel  Leaf. 

2 1-2   Ounces    of   Myrtle    Flowers. 

1  Gallon  of  Brandy. 

6  Pounds  of  White  Sugar. 

3  1-2  Pints  of  Water. 

12   ClO'Ves.     1-4    of   a    Nutmeg. 

Bruise  or  pound  the  bay  leaves,  the 
myrtle  flowers,  the  coarsely-grated  nut- 
meg and  the  cloves,  and  pour  over  them 
one  gallon  of  Brandy.  Then  reduce  ov-^r 
a  gentle  fire  the  sugar  and  water  till 
well  dissolved.  Let  it  cool.  Then  mix  the 
whole  with  the  bay  leaves  and  Brandy, 
mix  well,  filter,  put  into  tightly  corked 
bottles,   and   preserve. 

Cacao   Cream. 

Creme  de  Cacao. 

1  Pound  of  Cacao  Beans. 

2  Quarts  of  Brandy.     1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Quart  of   Water. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vanilla. 

The  Cacao  bean  may  be  purchased  from 
the  druggists  or  first-class  grocers.  Roast 
the  beans  to  a  light  brown  and  grind  as 
you  would  grind  coffee.  Infuse  in  two 
quarts  of  Brandy  for  six  days.  Then 
make  a  syrup  with  the  sugar  and  water; 
reduce  to  one-half  and  let  it  cool.  Then 
add  the  Cacao  and  Brandy.  Flavor  with 
Vanilla.     Strain  and  bottle  for  use. 

Cherry     Water     Cream. 

Creme  de  Cerises, 

7  Pints  of  Cherry  Water. 

4  Ounces  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 

4   Founds   of   Sugar.    1   Quart   of   Water. 

Take  seven  pints  of  Cherry  Water  and 
distill  it  to  nearly  one-half.  Then  add 
four  ounces  of  Orange  Flower  Wate". 
Let  it  stand-  for  four  or  five  hours.  Dis- 
solve four  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  quart 
of  distilled  and  filtered  Mississippi  river 
water  and  set  it  over  the  fire  till  well 
blended  and  dissolved.  Take  it  off,  and  let 
it  cool.  Then  add  the  Cherry  Water,  strain 
and  bottle.  This  is  a  most  delicious  sum- 
mer beverage,  and  if  kept  in  very  tightly 
corked  bottles  it  will  keep  a  very  long 
time. 

Cream    of    Boses, 

Creme  de  Roses. 

3  Pounds  of  Rose  Leaves. 

2  Quarts  of  Brandy. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

Pound  the  rose  leaves  in  a  stone  ves- 
sel, and  then  pour  over  the  Brandy  and 
infuse  for  six  days.  Distill  the  liquor 
.^by  boiling  to  one-half  in  a  "bain-marie." 
liien  mix  it  thoroughly  with  one  pound 
of  sugar,  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  water 
or  in  rose  water.  Color  with  a  few  drops 
of  Cochineal,  and  filter  and  bottle  for 
use. 

Elixir    of    Violets. 

Elixir  de  Violettes. 

10   Ounces  of  S^rup  of  Violet. 

4  Ounces  of  Filtered  Raspberry  Juice. 

4  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

Z  Quarts  of  the  Best  Brandy  or  Alcoho'. 

2  Pints  of  Water. 

Make  a  syrup  with  the  sugar  and  wa- 
ter, and  let  it  cool.  Mix  the  violet  syrup 
and  the  Raspberry  Juice,  and  add  it  to 
tne  alcohol.  Add  the  sugar  syrup,  when 
cool,  mix  all  thoroughly,  strain  and  bot- 
tle tightly. 


,  Mint    Cream. 

Creme  de  Menthe. 

1  Pound   of   Freshly-gathered   Mint. 

The  Zests  of  5  Lemons. 
7   Pints   of   Fine   Old   French   Cognac. 

2  Drams  of  Essence  of  Peppermint. 

4  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
2  Quarts  of  Water. 

Gather  the  mint  very  fresh,  and  wash 
lightly  in  fresh  water.  Cut,  it  very  fine, 
and  add  the  grated  zests  of  the  lemons. 
Jround  well  in  a  stone  jar,  and  macerate 
or  steep  for  eight  days  in  seven  pints  of 
good  Brandy.  Then  distill  it,  or  boil  to 
one-half,  covering  the  spout  of  the  boiler 
with  a  piece  of  kid  in  which  you  have 
cut  small  holes.  Then  add  a  half  dram 
of  essence  of  pepperminc.  Dissolve  to^r 
pounds  of  sugar  in  three  pints  of  water, 
ahd  let  it  cool.  Then  mix  it  thoroughly 
with  the  mint  infusion  and  let  it  stand 
for  a  half  hour.  Then  filter  and  bottle 
it,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  shady  place. 

Mocha  Cream. 

Creme  de   Mocha. 

1  Pound  of  the  Best  Mocha  Coffee. 

The  Zest  of  1  Orange. 

7  Pints  of  Brandy. 

4  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

3  Pints  of  Water. 

Roast  the  coffee  to  a  light  brown,  with- 
out the  least  trace  of  burning.  Then 
grind  it  quickly,  while  it  is  hot,  and  in- 
fuse immediately  in  seven  pints  of  good 
Brandy.  Add  the  zest  of  the  orange, 
cut  very  fine,  and  let  it  remain  thus  for 
six  days.  Then  place  in  a  vessel  in  a 
"bain-marie,"  and  distill  till  reduced  to 
one-half.  Dissolve  the  sugar  and  water 
over  a  slow  fire,  then  let  it  cool,  and  mix 
it  with  the  coffee  mixture.  Filter  it,  bot- 
tle and  preserve  in  a  cool,  shady  place. 

FRUIT    GBANITS. 

Fruit  Juice  Granits. 
Des  Granits. 
All  manner  of  summer  fruit  beverages 
which  have  been  given  in  this  chapter,  or 
which  will  be  given,  may  be  served  as 
"Granits,"  by  simply  freezing  them  ac- 
cording to  the  recipes  given  above. 

A  Granit  is  only  half  frozen,  tho 
thought  being  to  make  it  resemble  snow- 
frosted  water;  it  must  always  be  suffi- 
ciently liquid  to  admit  of  being  poured 
out  into  glasses  and  passed  around  to 
guests.  The  liquid  may  also  be  frozen  In 
a  freezer,  but  the  Creoles  cling  to  the  old- 
fashioned  water  jugs. 

Granits  are  favorite  drinks  in  France, 
the  custom  having  been  adopted  from  the 
Italians,  who  served  them  under  the  name 
of    "Granitii." 

The    Granits    which    are    extemporized 
from  fruits  are  the  most  delightful  of  all 
but  they  must  be  used  at  once,   or  they 
will  become  insipid,  when  not  made  into 
Ratafias  or  Liqueurs.     The  following  re- 
cipe   for    Orange    Granit    will    serve    for 
almost  any  kind  of  Fruit  Granit: 
Orange    Granit. 
Granit    d'Orange. 
12  Oranges. 
1 1-2  Pints  of  Orange  Juice. 
1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1  Quart  of  Water. 
Peel   six   oranges,,  removing  every  par- 
ticle of  pulp.     Slice  nicely  and  place  in  a 
dish,  and  sprinkle  over  them  the  granu- 
lated sugar.     Set  aside  for  several  hour? 
to  make  a  syrup.     Squeeze  the  juice  from 
the  remaining  six  oranges  and  add  to  the 
syrup    formed    from    the    other    oranges, 


234 


which  must  be  carefully  drained  of  all 
syrup.  Add  the  water;  mix  well  and 
strain.  Then  turn  into  a  freezer  and 
freeze  till  a  light  frosting  appears.  Serve 
in    small    glasses. 

Strawberry    Granit. 

Granit  de  Fraises. 

1    Quart  of  Strawberries. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Strawberry    Extract. 

1 1-2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

Mash  the  berries  and  cover  with  the 
sugar,  and  set  aside  to  form  a  syrup. 
Then  drain  and  press  through  a  sieve, 
extracting  all  the  juice.  Add  the  extract. 
Mix  all  with  the  water,  and  turn  into  a 
freezer  and  freeze  till  light,  snowy  frost- 
ing appears.  Then  serve  in  long,  thin 
glasses. 

Raspberry    Granit. 

Granit  de  Framboises. 

1  Quart  of  Kaspberries. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Raspberry    Bxtract. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Mash  the  berries  and  proceed  in  ex- 
actly the  same  manner  as  for  Strawberry 
Granit. 

Champagrne   Punch. 

Ponche  au  Vin  de  Champagne. 

1  Quart  Bottle  of  Champagne. 

1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 

1   Quart   of  Rhine   Wine. 

3-4  of  a  Pint  of  Brandy. 

1-8  of  a  Pint  of  Curacoa. 

2  Quarts  of  Seltzer  Water. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Large  Piece   of  Ice. 

Take  a  large  punch  bowl  and  dissolve 
in  it  the  above  quantities  of  sugar,  lemon 
juice,  Rhine  wine,  Champagne,  Seltzer 
Water  and  Curacoa.  Mix  well,  and  sei 
to  cool  and  serve  in  small  punch  glasses. 
The  above  quantity  will  serve  twenty- 
five  persons.  Reduce  or  increase  the 
quantity  of  ingredients  In  proportion  ac- 
cording to  the  number  of  persons  to  De 
served. 

The  above  punch  may  be  served  "Frap- 
pe,"  by  putting  it  into  a  large  ice  cream 
.freezer  and  freezing  soft. 

Champagne    Punch    n    la    Creole. 

J?onche  au      in  de  Champagne  a  la  Creole. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 
r  1  Quart  Bottle  of  Champagne. 

1  Quart  of  Best  White  Wine. 
1-8  of  a  Pint  of  Curacoa. 

2  Quarts    of    Seltzer    Water. 
1-2  of  a  Grated  Pineapple. 
1-2  of  a  Sliced  Pineapple. 

3  Dozen  Strawberries. 
1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

Take  a  large  punch  bowl,  and  dissolve 
In  it  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
lemon  juice,  one  quart  of  White  wine, 
one  quart  bottle  of  Champagne,  two 
quarts  of  Seltzer  water,  one-eighth  of  a 
pint  of  Curacoa  and  one-half  of  a  grated 
pineapple.  Mix  well.  Put  in  a  large 
piece  of  ice,  decorate  with  strawberries 
and  sliced  pineapple,  let  it  cool,  and  serve 
In  small  cup  glasses.  The  above  quantity 
will  serve  twenty-five  people. 

Champagne    frappe. 

Champagne  Frappe  Is  made  by  putting 
the  above  mixture  into  an  ice  cream 
freezer  and  freezing  it  soft. 


Claret     Pnnch. 

Ponche    au    Vin. 

1  Quart  of  the  Best  Claret. 

1-2  Pint  of  Ice  Water. 

1-2  Cup  of  Powdered  White  Sugar. 

2  Lemons,  Sliced  Thin. 

Slice  the  lemons  and  let  them  stand  for 
ten  minutes  with  the  sugar.  Add  the  wa- 
ter and  wine.  Mix  well  and  serve  in 
glasses  with  crushed  ice  or  freeze  as  di- 
rected above. 

Claret   Punch,    Creole   Style. 

Ponche  au  Vin  a  la  Creole. 

2  1-2  Quarts  of  Claret. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1 1-4    Quarts    of    Seltzer    and    Apollinaris 

Water. 

1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 

1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

2  Lemons,  Sliced  Very  Thin. 

Slice  the  lemons  very  thin.  Mix  all  the 
above  ingredients  together.  Add  the 
sliced  lemons  as  a  garnish,  stir  well,  set 
to  cool,  and  serve  in  small  glass  cups  or 
punch  glasses.  The  above  quantity  wUl 
serve  twenty-five  persons.  Reduce  or  in- 
crease quantities  in  proportion  to  the 
number  to  be  served.  Claret  Punch  may 
be  frapped  by  putting  into  an  ice  cream 
freezer   and    freezing   soft. 

Hot    Claret   Pnnch. 

Ponche  au  Vin  Chaud. 

2  Quarts  of  Claret. 

1 1-4  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

6  Oranges.     3  Lemons. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Cinnamon  (Whole  Stick). 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  oranges  and 
lemons.  Take  the  peeling  of  the  oranges 
and  lemons  and  boil  with  one  quart  of 
water  and  the  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Strain,  and  then  add  the  claret  and  lemon 
juice  and  orange  juice;  let  all  come  to  a 
boil   again  and  serve  hot. 

Louisiana   Punch. 

Ponche   a  la   Louisianaise. 

2  Quarts  of  White  Burgundy  Wine. 
2   Quarts  of  Seltzer  Water. 

1  Pint  of  Brandy. 

1  Pint  of  Good  Old  Cognac. 

1  Pint  of  Curacoa. 

1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 

2  Dozen  Cherries.     2  Dozen  Strawberries. 

1-2  of  a  Sliced  Pineapple. 

2  Lemons,  Sliced  Very  Thin. 

1 1-2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

Mix  the  Seltzer  'W'ater  and  the  sugar, 
add  the  Wine,  Brandy,  Curacoa  and 
lemon  juice;  stem  and  wash  the  straw- 
berries  and  the  cherries,  add,  and  dec- 
orate the  punch  with  thin  slices  of  lemoa 
and  pineapple.  Set  to  cool  and  serve  in 
small  punch  glasses.  The  punch  may 
be  frapped  by  putting  in  an  ice  cream 
freezer  and  freezing  soft. 

MUk   Pnnch. 

Ponche    au    Lait. 

A  Glass  of  Good  Rich  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Brandy  or  Whisky. 

A  Small  Quantity  of  Crushed  Ice. 

Dissolve  the  Whisky  or  Brandy  and 
sugar  together,  mix  well,  and  pour  over 
tne  milk.  Add  a  small  quantity  of  crushed 
ice  and  serve. 


235 


Orange  Punch,   New  Orleans   Style. 

Ponche  d'Oranges  a  la  Nouvelle  Orleans. 

6   Louisiana    Oranges. 

1  Glass   of  Rum. 

1-2  Glass  of  Best  Brandy. 
2    Quarts    of    Boiling    Water. 

1  Pound   of   Loaf   Sugar. 

1  Small  Glass  of  Cherry  Bounce. 
1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water,  and  the  Rum 
and  Brandy.  Add  the  Juice  of  six  oranges, 
and  the  grated  peel  of  three,  and  let  all 
infuse  for  one  hour.  Then  set  to  cool. 
Vv  hen  ready  to  serve  add  cne  small  glass- , 
ful  of  Cherry  Bounce.  Serve  in  small 
glass  cups. 

Rum  Punch. 

Ponche  au  Rhum. 

11-2  Pints  of  Best  Jamaica  Rum. 

1-4  of  a  Pint  of  Brandy. 

2  Quarts  of  Apollinaris  or  Seltzer  Water. 

1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 
1    Pint    of    White    Wine. 

2  Lemons,  Sliced  Thin. 
11-4  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water,  add  the 
liquors,  stir  well,  add  the  lemon  duloe 
and  the  bits  of  sliced  lemon;  set  to  cool 
and  serve  in  small  punch  glasses.  This 
quantity  will  serve  twenty-five  persons. 
Reduce  or  Increase  according  to  the  num- 
ber to  he  served.  Frappe  hy  turning 
into  an  ice  cream  freezer  and  freezing 
soft. 

Strawberry    Punch. 

Ponche  aux  Fraises. 

1 1-4  Quarts  of  Best  Champagne  or  Claret. 

1  Quart  of  Strawberry  Juice. 

2  Quarts  of  Seltzer  Water. 
1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 

1  Pint  of  Pineapple  Juice. 

1 1-4  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

!  Dozen  Fine,  Ripe  Strawberries. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  water  and  add 
the  liquor,  using  either  Claret  or  Cham- 
pagne. Add  the  fruit  Juices  and  then  the 
whoje  strawberries.  Set  to  cool  and  serve 
In  small  punch  glasses.  Frappe  by  turn- 
ing into  a  freezer  and  freezing  soft.  The 
above  quantity  will  serve  twenty-five 
persons.  Reduce  or  increase  quantity  in 
proportion  to   guests. 

White    Wine   Pnnch. 

Ponche  au  Vin  Blanc. 

21-2  Ouarts  of  Sauternes. 

2  Quarts   of    Best    Sauternes. 

1    Pint    of    Old    French    Cognac. 

1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 

1  Pint  of  Pineapple  Juice. 

1  Quart  of  Seltzer  Water. 

1-2  Grated  Pineapple. 
1-2  of  a  Sliced  Pineapple. 

2  Dozen  Cherries. 

1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water,  add  the 
liquors  and  the  fruit  Juices  and  the  grated 
and  sliced  fruit.  Stir  well,  "feet  to  cool 
and  serve  in  small  glass  cups.  The  above 
quantity  will  serve  twenty-five  persons. 
Reduce  or  increase  the  quantity  of  in- 
gredients in  proportion  to  the  number  of 
persons  to  be  served.  This  punch  may  b» 
trapped  by  simply  turning  into  an  ice 
cream  freezer  and  freezing  soft. 


White    Wine    Punch,    Creole    Style. 
Ponche  au  Sauternes  a  la  Creole. 

21-2  Quarts   of  S'auterne. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Lemon  Juice. 

1-2  Pint  of  Brandy. 

1  Quart  of  Seltzer   Water. 

1-2  of  a  Grated  Pineapple. 

1-2  of  a  Sliced  Pineapple. 

2  Dozen  Cherries. 
Sprigs  of  Fresh  Young  Mint. 

Talte  a  large  punch  bowl,  and  put  one 
pound  of  sugar  into  it,  with  one  pint  ol 
lemon  Juice,  two  and  a  half  quarts  of 
Sauterne  (White  wine),  half  a  pint  of 
Brandy,  two  quarts  of  Apollinaris  or 
Seltzer,  one-half  of  a  grated  pineapple. 
Decorate  with  sliced  pineapple  and  whole 
cherries  and  sprigs  of  fresh  young  mint: 
put  in  a  large  piece  of  ice,  and  let  it 
cool,  and  serve  in  small  glass  cups. 

Tea  Punch. 

Ponche  au  The. 

1  Quart  of  Strong  Tea. 

French  Brandy  or  Wine  or  Rum  to  Tast«. 

6  Lemons.     1 1-2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

Squeeze  the  Juice  from  the  lemons  and 
grate  the  zest.  Add  this  to  one  quart  of 
boiling  tea,  and  add  the  sugar.  Dissolve 
well.  Let  it  boil  up  three  times,  talte  off 
the  fire,  and  add  Rum,  Brandy  or  Wine 
to  taste.  It  may  be  served  hot,  or  bottled, 
and  kept  for  future  use,  in  which  caao 
it  is  served  with  crushed  ice. 

CUPS.  ■ 

Ponchea. 

Cups  are  a  form  of  punch  that  are- 
frequently  used  when  a  smaller  quantity 
is  desired  or  when  it  is  wished  to  maiie 
a  refreshing  drink  for  delicate  members 
of  the  household.  One  quart  cup  will 
serve  six  persons.  A  pint  cup  v/ill  servo 
three.  The  Cup  is  served  In  a  very  deli- 
cate, thin  tumbler. 

Burgundy    Cup. 

Ponche  au  Vin  de  Bourgogne. 

1  Pint  of  Good  Old  Burgundy. 

1  Sliced  Lemon.    1  Orange. 

A  Dash  of  Old  French  Cognac. 

1-4  Pint  of  Seltzer  Water. 

1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  lemon  and 
orange  Juice  and  add  the  liquors  ani 
water.  Decorate  with  the  sliced  lemon 
and  sprigs  of  green  mint. 

Claret  Cup. 

Ponche  au  Vin. 

1  Pint  of  Good  Claret. 

1  Pony  of  Curacoa.    1  Orange,  Sliced. 

A  Dash  of  French  Cognac. 

1-2  Cup  of  Loaf  Sugar. 

1  Large  Piece  of  Ice. 
The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  lemon  Juice. 
Add  the  Claret,  Curacoa,  Brandy  and 
sliced  orange  and  lemon  Juice.  Put  to 
cool.  When  ready  to  serve  pour  into  a 
thin,  small  tumbler  and  decorate  the  top 
with  a  sprig  of  fresh  green  mint. 

This  "Claret  Cup"  is  also  made  by 
preparing  one  quart  of  "Orangeade"  (sea 
recipe),  and  adding  one  quart  of  Claret. 
FreezS  as  directed,  or  serve  with  crushed 
ice,  having  the  glasses  half  full  of  the 
pounded  ice. 


236 


Champagne    Gup. 

Ponche  au  Vin  de  Champagne. 

1  Pint  of  Champagne. 

1  Lemon,  Sliced.     1  Sliced  Orange. 

A    Dash    of   Old   French    Cognac. 

1-4  Pint  of  Seltzer  Water. 

A  Dash  of  Curacoa, 

1   Large   Piece   of  Ice. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water;  add  the 
liqueurs,  and  the  sliced  orange  and 
lemon,  and  the  ice.  Stir  well  and  let 
coo-l.  Serve  in  small,  thin  tumblers,  and 
decorate  with  a  piece  of  fresh  green  mint 
on  top. 

MoHelle  Cup. 

Ponche  au  Vin  de  Moselle. 

1  Pint  of  Moselle  Wine. 

1   Sliced   Lemon.     1    Sliced   Orange. 

A  Dash   of  Good   Brandy. 

A  Dash  of  Maraschino. 
1-4  Pint  of  Seltzer    Water. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 
1-4  of  a  Grated  Pineapple. 

1   Large   Piece  of  Ice. 
1-4  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water,  add  the  wine 
and  the  liqueurs,  and  the  juice  of  the 
lemon  and  sliced  orange  and  lemon,  and 
the  grated  pineapple.  Stir  well.  Let  cool, 
and  serve  in  small  thin  tumblers.  Dec- 
orate the  top  with  sprigs  of  fresh  green 
mint. 

Military  Cup. 

Ponche   Militaire. 

1  Bottle  of  Claret. 

2  Quarts  of  Water. 

1  Bottle  of  Seltzer  Water. 

The  Juice  and  Rind  of  3  Lemons. 

1    Cordial    Glass    of    Benedictine. 

1-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1  Cordial  Glass  of  Cherry  Bounce. 
A  Few  Strawberries  or  French  Cherries. 
Take  one  bottle  of  Claret  and  pour  into 
a  punch  bO'Wl  with  two  quarts  of  water. 
Add  one  bottle  of  Seltzer  water  and  a 
half  pound  of  sugar  and  the  juice  and 
rind  of  three  lemons.  Stir  all  well  and 
add  a  dash  of  old  French  Cognac,  a  cor- 
dial glass  of  Benedictine  and  of  Clierry 
Bounce,  and  put  sufficient  ice  in  the 
"bowl  to  make  the  Punch  very  cold.  Serve 
"With  a  few  Strawberries  or  French  Cher- 
Ties  in  each  glass  and  place  a  sprig  of 
fresh  young  mint  on  top. 

White   Wine   Cup. 

Ponche  au   Sauternes. 

1   Pint   of   Best    Sauterne. 

1-2  of  a  Sliced  Lemon.     1-2  of  a  Sliced 

Orange. 

A  Dash  of  Old  French  Cognac. 

A  Dash  of  Maraschino. 

1  Cup  of  Pineapple  Juice. 

1    Large   Piece   of  Ice. 

1-4  Pint  of  Seltzer  Water. 

1-4  Cup   o'f  Sugar. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  the  Seltzer  wa- 
ter, add  the  wine  and  fruit  Juices  and 
liquor.  Add  the  cherries  and  sliced  lemcn 
and  orange.  Stir  well.  Let  cool  ani 
serve  in  small,  thin  tumblers.  Decorate 
the  top.s  with  sprigs  of  fresh  green  mint, 
with  two  or  three  cherries  laid  on  top. 

Hot   Wlliwkey  Punch. 

Ponche  au  Whisky  Chaud. 

2  Tablespoontuls  of  Best  Old  Bourbon. 

3  Lumps  of  Loaf  Sugar. 

1-4    of   a    X^emon. 

iHot  Water  to  Fill  One  Tumbler. 


Squeeze  the  juice  from  a  quarter  of  a 
lemon  and  dissolve  with  the  sugar.  Add 
the  Whisky  and  let  all  dissolve  well. 
Fill  with  hot  water;  stir  well,  and  add  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  if  desired,  and  serve 
hot. 

Brandy  Stew. 

Cognac  Chaud  a  la  CreO'le. 

1   Glass   of  Fine   Old   French  Cognac 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Best  Butter. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cloves. 

1-4    Teaspoonful    of    Grated    Nutmeg. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cinnamon  and 

Allspice. 

Have  a  nice  porcelain-lined  saucepan. 
Melt  the  butter  and  sugar  over  a  clear 
fire,  blending  well,  and  adding  almost 
immediately  the  ground  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  allspice.  Let  it  stew  slowly  and  add 
the  Brandy  or  good  old  Bourbon  or  Rye 
W^hisky  very  carefully,  so  that  it  will  not 
take  fire.  Stir  well,  and  let  it  bubble 
up  once  or  twice,  and  then  take  off  tht- 
fire  and  add  the  grated  nutmeg. 

This  is  a  very  delicate  stew,  and  ts 
offered  to  the  sick  and  those  suffering 
from  severe  cold.  It  is  held  as  an  infalli- 
ble cure  for  a  cold  in  twenty-four  hour.s 

Hot  Stews  of  Whisky,  Rum,  Gin,  Claret 
Sherry,  Madeira  or  Port  W^ine  may  also 
be  prepared  according  to  the  above  an- 
cient formula. 


Hot    Spiced    Port. 

Vin   d'Oporto  Chaud  a  la   Creole. 

1  Lump  of  Sugar. 

2   Cloves.     3   Allspice. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Old  Port  Wine. 

A  Dash  of  Grated  Nutmeg. 

A  Bit  of  Lemon  Peel. 

Take  a  small  mixing  glass  and  dissolve 
the  sugar  in  a  little  warm  water.  Add 
the  Allspice  and  Cloves,  ground  well 
Add  the  Port  Wine.  Fill  with  hot  water 
and  add  a  bit  of  lemon  peel.  Stir  well. 
Grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  top  and  serve 
very  hot. 

Hot  Spiced  Sherry,  Madeira,  Brandy. 
Whskv,  Rum  or  Claret  may  be  prepared 
according  to  the  above  recipe. 

AVine    Cobblers. 

1    Wineglassful    of   Sherry   or   Any   Other 

Wine. 

A  Small  Piece  of  Lemon  Peel. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar  or  Syrup. 

Cobblers  may  be  made  with  Port,  Sher- 
ry, Rhine,  Moselle,  Catawba  or  Musca- 
dine wine  or  Vin  Muscat.  Take  a  glass, 
put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  or  syrup, 
a  small  piece  of  cut  lemon  peel,  one  wine- 
glass of  Sherry  or  any  other  of  the  above 
wines,  and  then  fill  the  glass  with 
crushed  ice.  Stir  well.  Decorate  the  mix- 
ture with  sprigs  of  fresh  mint  or  straw- 
Derries  or  sliced  pineapple,  and  serve. 

Sherry    Cobbler. 

1  Duart  of  Lemonade. 

1-2  Bottle  of  Sherry  or  Any  Other  Wine. 

Small  Bits  of  Lemon  Peel. 

To  one  quart  of  lemonade  add  half  a 
bottle  of  Sherry  and  proceed  to  freeze  as 
directed  above,"  or  hand  around  in  glasses 
half  full  of  crushed  ice.  .\dd  a  little 
lemon  peel. 


237 


Siii8rar«e,  Hot  or  Gold. 

Sangaree,  Chaud  ou  Froid. 

1   Cup   of   Claret. 
1   Cup   of  Boiling   Water. 

6   "Whole   Cloves. 
3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar. 

12  Whole  Allspice. 

2  Inches  of  Stick  Cinnamon. 

Grated  Nutmeg  to  Taste. 

Boil  the  water  and  spices  for  fifteen 
minutes,  till  the  water  is  thorouglily 
flavored  with  the  spices.  Then  remove 
from  the  fire  and  dissolve  the  sugar  In 
it.  Put  the  Claret  into  a  pitcher.  Strain 
the  water  and  sugar  into  it.  Flavor  with 
the  nutmeg,  and  add  more  sugar,  if  neces- 
sary, to  taste.     Serve  hot  immediately. 

This  is  a  winter  drink.  It  is  served 
cold  in  summer  simply  by  mixing  the 
wine  and  water  and  sugar  and  adding 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange,  a  little 
lemon  peel  and  grated  nutmeg. 

Mint  Julep   a,  la   Creole. 

1  Large  Cut  Glass  Filled  With  Water, 

■    3  Lumps  of  Sugar. 

1   Tablespoonful    of   Good    Brandy    or 

Whisky. 

The  Juice  of  Half  a  Lemon. 

A  Bit  of  Lemon  or  Orange  Peel. 

6  Sprigs  of  Fresh  Young  Mint. 

A  Few  Ripe  Strawberries. 

Take  one  large  cut  glass,  half  fill  with 
water,  add  six  sprigs  of  fresh  mint,  three 
lumps  of  sugrar.  Stir  well,  till  the  sugar 
is  absorbed.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  good 
Brandy  or  Whisky,  and  stir  well.  Add 
a  little  lemon  and  orange  peel,  and  the 
juice  of  halt  a  lemon,  if  desired.  Fill  the 
glass  with  crushed  ice,  and  decorate  on 
top  with  sprigs  of  mint.  Place  a  few  ripe 
strawberries  on  top  of  the  mint,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  crushed  sugar,  and  servo. 
This  ji^i^ep  was  a  famous  offering  at  the 
ancient  plantation  homes  of  Louisiana. 
Sliced  orange  or  sliced  pineapple  is  fre- 
quently added. 

EGG-NOG. 

10  Fine,  Fresh  Creole  Eggs. 

1   Quart   of   Milk. 

1  Pound  of  White  Granulated  Sugar. 

1  Gill  of  Fine  French  Cognac. 

1  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream,  add  the 
sugar,  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Blend  all 
thoroughly,  beating  till  very,  very  light. 
Now  pour  over  the  boiling  milk,  stirring 
well.  When  thoroughly  blended  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  the  liquor,  and  serve  hot. 
This  egg-no'g  is  also  served  cold  by  the 
Creoles  at  New  Year's  receptions.  At 
the  famous  Christmas  and  New  Year  re- 
veillons  it  is  served  hot.  The  liquor  may 
or  may  not  be  added,  according  to  taste. 

Bgg    and    Wine. 

Oeuf  au  Vin. 

1   Egg. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  STierry  or  Port  Wine. 

1   Tablespoonful   or   Teaspoonful   of 

Sugar. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg  to  a  cream 
in  a  tumbler,  and  add  the  sugar,  and  beat 
till  very  light.  Then  add  the  Sherry  or 
Port,  according  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then  beat  it  into  the 
yolk  and  wine.  Add  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg. This  is  excellent  for  invalids,  and 
is  offered  to  them  by  the  Creoles  as  a 
morning  or  evening  tonic. 


FRAPPCE8. 

Any  Liqueur  or  Beverage  may  be 
served  "au  Frappee"  by  filling  a  glass 
with  crushed  ice,  pouring  the  beverage 
over  and  serving  very  cold,  in  almost 
a  freezing  state. 

Absinthe  Frappee. 

A    Small    Glass    Filled    With    Finely- 
Chopped  Ice  and  Water. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Absinthe. 
A    Dash    of   Anisette. 

Mix  the  Absinthe  and  Anisette  to- 
gether, strain  into  small,  thin  glasses, 
with  crushed  ice  and  water;  let  the  mix- 
ture get  very  cold  and  serve  immediately. 
The  Absinthe  may  be  served  without  the 
Anisette.  Some  add  the  white  of  an  eggr. 
But  this  is  according  to  taste. 

The  abo^e  is  the  recipe  that  used  to  b» 
used  in  old  Creole  days  at  the  famous 
old  Absinthe  House,  in  Bourbon  street. 

Creme   de   Menthe   Frappee. 

A   Small   Sherry   Glass   Filled   With 

Crushed  Ice. 

Two  Tablespoonfuls  of  Creme  de  Menthe 

(White  or  Green). 

Fill  a  glass  with  finely-crushed  ice  pour 
over  the  Creme  de  Menthe,  and  serve  very 
cold. 

Creme  de  Noyau  Frappee. 

1  Claret   Glass   Filled   With   Crushed  Ice, 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Creme  de  Noyau. 
Put    two    tablespoonfuls    of    Creme    de 

Noyau  in  a  glass  of  finely-crushed  lea 
and  Seltzer  and  serve  at  almost  freezlnr 
point. 

Creme  de  Violettee,  Creme  de  Cacao. 
Creme  de  Curacoa  may  all  be  served  m 
the    same    manner. 

Coffee  Frappe. 
Cafe    Frappe. 

2  Tablespoonfuls    of    Coffee    (Black    and 

"Very  Strong.) 
A    Dash    of    Old    French    Cognac. 
2    Teaspoontuls   of    Sugar. 
Take    a    large    glass,    mix    the    above 
ingredents      together,      fill      with      finely 
crushed  ice,  and  pour  into  a  small  Bur- 
gundy glass,  and  serve  very  cold. 
Pousse   Cafe, 
1     Teaspoonful     of    Anisette. 
1    Teaspoonful     of    Curacoa. 
1    Teaspoonful    of    Benedictine    or 
Chartreuse. 
1    Teaspoonful    of    Good    Old    Burbon    or 
Cognac. 
Mix     all     the     above    ingredents    in     a 
small    glass,    and    serve    cold,    or    other- 
wise,   as    preferred. 

A  Pousse  Cafe  is  also  made  by  putting 
a  teaspoonful  of  Chartreuse,  Benedictine 
or  aid  Cognac  or  Burbon  into  the  after- 
dinner  cup  of  Cafe  Noir. 

Vermouth   Frappe. 

1   Teaspoonful   of   French   "Vermouth. 

1    Dash    of    Orange    Bitters. 

A   Dash   of   Syrup. 

A    Bit   of   Lemon   Peel. 

Finely  Crushed  Ice. 

Mix     all     the     above     ingredients     well 

together,     stir    well    and    strain    into     a 

small  Punch     glass,  and  serve  very  cold. 

Appetizer. 

A  Dash  of  Absinthe. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    "Vermouth. 

1   Dash    of   Pepsin. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Seltzer    Water. 

Finely  Crushed  Ice. 


238 


Fill  a  glass  with  finely-crushed  ice, 
and  add  the  above  ingredents;  shake 
well  together,  pour  into  a  small,  del- 
icately thin  tumbler,  and  serve  cold. 

Old-Fashioned    Creole    Cocktails. 

1  Tablespoonful    of    Good    Old    Burbon, 
Cognac,    Gin,     Sherry    or    Vermouth. 

2  Lumps  of  Loaf  Sugar. 

A    Piece    of    Ice    About    the    Size    of    an 

Egg. 

A    Bit    of    Lemon    Peel. 

The  Juice  of  1  Orange. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Lemon    Juice. 

Take  a  large  glass,  put  the  lump  sugar 
in,  and  mix  with  about  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  Seltzer,  dissolving  the  sugar  well. 
Now  add  the  lemon  peel  and  the  juices 
of  the  orange  and  lemon.  Add  one 
tablespoonful  of  good  old  Burbon  or 
Sherry  or  any  of  the  above  mentioned 
liquors,  according  to  the  cocktail  desired 
Stir  well,  and  serve  with  delicate  sprigs 
of  freshly-gathered  mint  on  top.  Some 
add  a  few  cherries;  these  tend  to  im- 
prove the  flavor. 

CORDIALS     AND     DOMESTIC     WINES. 

Liqueurs    de    Menage. 

Cordials  are  made  by  distilling  brandy, 
rum,  alcohol,  etc.,  with  aromatic  sub- 
stances, and  then  diluting  with  water  and 
sweetening  with   sugar   or  syrup. 

Cordials  should  always  be  soft,  mellow, 
light  and  transparent.  Only  the  best 
white  clarified  loaf  sugar,  the  best  fil- 
tered river  water,  and  the  best  Cognac 
or  Brandy  or  alcohol  should  be  used  in 
making  them.  The  sugar  should  always 
be  boiled  to  a  syrup. 

The  cordials  should  be  filtered.  The 
spirits  should  always  be  rectified  In  ad- 
vance. It  is  quite  possible  to  purchase 
the  rectified  spirits,  and  a  great  deal  of 
trouble  is  saved  to  those  who  do  not 
understand  home  methods  of  distillation. 

ANISETTE. 

10  Drops  of   Oil   of  Aniseed. 
3  Pints   of  Alcohol. 

2  Pounds    of   the   Finest   White   Clarified 

Loaf  Sugar. 
1 1-2  Pints  of  Water. 

Make  a  syrup  with  the  water  and 
sugar,  and  clarify.  (See  recipe.)  When 
cold,  add  the  aniseed  oil,  which  has 
been  well-dissolved  in  the  alcohol.  Mix 
all  well,  filter  and  bottle  tightly. 

Anisette    de    Bourdeaux. 

10    Ounces    of    Green   Aniseed. 

4    Ounces    of    Star    Aniseed, 

1  Ounce  of  Coriander. 

2  Ounces    of    Hyson    Tea. 
1     Ounce     of     Fennel. 

3  1-2    Gallons    of   Alcohol. 

10  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
7  Pints   of   Water. 

The  above  ingredents  may  be  purchased 
from  first-class  druggists  and  grocers. 
Take  the  aniseed  coriander,  fennel,  Hy- 
son tea.  and  pound  well.  Then  macerate 
or  steep  for  fifteen  day^  In  three  and  a 
half  gallons  of  the  finest  rectified  alcohol. 
After  this  distill  in  a  "bain-marie,"  or 
water  bath,  acording  to  directions  already 
given.  Then  make  a  syrup  with  the  ten 
pounds  of  sugar  and  seven  pints  of  water. 
Mix  well  with  the  aniseed  liquor  and 
filter.  Then  bottle  and  keep  in  a  cool, 
shady  place.  Several  large  bottles  of 
Anisette  will  be  the  result  of  the  above 
quantities  after  distillation.  The  quan- 
tities may  be  reduced  or  increased  In 
proportion  to  the  amount  It  Is  desired 
to    make. 


Blaclcberry    Cordial. 

Liqueur  de   Mures. 

2  Quarts  of  Blackberry  Juice. 

2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1-4    Ounce    of   Ground   Cloves. 

1-4    Ounce    of   Allspice, 

1  Pint  of  the  Best  French  Brandy. 

Boil  eight  quarts  of  blackberries  in  a 
porcelian-lined  pot  till  the  juice  is  all  ex- 
tracted. Then  take  off  the  fire  and 
press  out  all  the  juice  through  a  flannel 
bag.  This  quantity  will  m.ake  about  two 
quarts.  Add  the  sugar,  allowing  one  glass 
of  sugar  always  to  two  glasses  of  black- 
berries, if  you  wish  to  m.ake  larger 
quantities  than  the  above  measurements. 
Add  the  cloves  and  the  allspice,  and 
set  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  come  to  a 
good  boil.  Let  it  boil  up  several  times. 
Then  take  off,  strain  and  add  the  brandy. 
Bottle  while  hot.  Cork  well  and  seal, 
and  set  away  in  a  cool  place,  to  be  used 
after  two  months.  The  longer  this  ex- 
cellent cordial  is  kept,  the  better  it 
will  be.  It  is  very  grateful  to  the  sick, 
and  can  be  supported  by  the  most  del- 
icate stomachs. 

Citronelle. 

The  Zest  of  30  Lemons. 

The   Zest   of  4   Oranges. 

3 1-2    Quarts    of    Alcohol. 

2  1-2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1--2   Dram    Each    of   Cloves   and   Nutmeg. 

Grate  the  zests  of  the  lemons  and 
oranges,  and  grate  the  nutmeg  and  grind 
the  cloves.  Mix  well.  Then  pour  over 
the  alcohol,  and  steep  for  fifteen  days. 
Distill  in  a  "bain-marie,"  or  water  bath, 
and  add  the  syrup  made  with  two  and 
a  half  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of 
water.  Bottle  and  keep  in  a  cool  shady 
place. 

Cnracoa. 

The    Zest    of    1     Dozen    Fine    Louisiana 

Oranges. 

3    Fine    Lemons. 

3  Quarts  of  Fine  Old  French  Cognac. 

31-8  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1  Quart  of   Water. 

Grate  the  zests  of  the  fruit  as  care- 
fully as  possible,  so  as  to  preserve  the 
fine  aromatic  oils  and  without  touching 
the  white  pulp.  Then  put  the  zests  in  a 
large  glass  bottle  or  vessel  that  can  be 
closed  tightly,  and  pour  over  the  brandy. 
Shake  well  and  let  it  stand  for  fifteen 
days,  each  day  shaking  the  bottle  well, 
to  agitate  the  juices.  Make  a  syrup 
with  the  sugar  and  water,  .first  beating 
into  the  sugar  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
to  make  the  infusion  very  clear.  Then 
mix  witii  the  water  and  strain.  Add  It 
to  the  syrup  of  brandy  and  lemons,  bot- 
tle and  cork  well.  Shake  the  bottlts 
and  let  them  stand  for  fifteen  days  lon- 
ger, agitating  each  day.  At  the  end  of 
this  time  filter  the  liquor  and  bottle 
tightly  for  use. 

A  more  simple  Curacoa,  but  not  so 
excellent,  is  made  by  taking  the  zest  of 
one  dozen  oranges,  three-quarters  of  a 
dram  of  cinnamon  and  one-quarter  of 
a  dram  of  mace.  Blend  these  well 
together,  and  steep  in  three  pints  of  al- 
cohol for  fifteen  days.  Then  distill  in 
a  water  bath,  and  add  a  syrup  made  of 
two  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar  and 
three-fourths  of  a  quart  of  w^ater.  Mix 
well,  color  lightly  with  Caramel,  and 
bottle   for  use. 


2J9 


TBUIT    COBDIAI^S 

Liqueurs   de   Fruit. 

2   Quarts   of  Juice. 

2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1-4  Ounce   of  Ground  Cloves. 
1-1  Ounce  of  Allspice. 
1   Pint   of   the    Best   French    Brandy. 
Strawberry  Cordial,  Raspberry  Cordial, 
Cherry  and  Grape  Cordial,  etc.,  are  made 
In  the  same  manner  as  Blackberry  Cor- 
dial.     (See   recipe.) 

Kununel. 

1  Quart    of    the    Best    Rectified    Alcohol. 

30  Drops  of  Kummel  Oil. 
1    Quart    of    Boiling    "Water. 

2  Pounds     of     the     Finest     White     Loaf 

Sugar. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  sugar 
and  stir  till  dissolved.  Bring  to  a  boll, 
and  let  it  continue  boiling  from  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes.  Strain,  and  when 
luke  warm,  add  the  oil  and  the  alcohol. 
Bottle  and  keep  for  at  least  two  months 
before  using.  The  oil  m  obtained  from 
druggists. 

Nectar. 

Nectar. 

4    Ounces    of    White    Honey. 

2  Ounces   of   Coriander. 

6  Ounces  of  Fine  White  Pulverized  Sugar. 

3  Quarts  of  Water. 

1  Ounce  of  the  Fresh  Zest  of  Lemon. 

1  Ounce  of  Cloves. 
1  Ounce  of  Benzoine. 

1  Ounce    of   Storax    Calamite. 
1-2  Dram  of  Tincture  of  Vanilla. 

4  Ounces  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 

5  Quarts  of  Highly  Rectified  Spirits. 

Pound  to  a  powder  all  the  ingredents 
which  require  it,  mix  with  the  honey, 
benzoin,  etc.,  pour  over  the  alcohol,  and 
steep  for  fifteen  days.  Then  distill  the 
liquor  till  it  is  reduced  to  four  quarts,  us- 
ing a  water  bath,  or  bain-marie,  for  the 
distillation.  Make  a  syrup  of  six  pounds  of 
fine  white  sugar,  add  the  Vanilla,  color 
a  deep  red  with  Cochineal,  and  add  to 
the  liquor.  Blend  and  shake  well,  bottle 
and   keep   in   a   cool   place. 

Parfait    Amour. 

2  Ounces  of  Zest  of  Lemons. 
4  Ounces  of  Zest  of  Limes. 

2  Drams  of  Cloves. 

3  Sprigs  of  Rosemary  Leaves. 
A   Handful   of   Orange   Blossoms. 

21-2   Gallons   of  Alcohol. 

10  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

5    Quarts    of    Water. 

Grate  the  zests  of  the  lemons  and  limes 

carefully,    without    touching    the    white 

inner  pulp.    Bruise   the   rosemary  leaves 

and    orange    blossoms    and    steep    in    the 

alcohol  fifteen  days.    Then  make  a  syrup 

with     the     sugar     and     water,     add     the 

liqueur,    distill    and    filter,    color    lightly 

with    Cochineal,    and    bottle    for   use. 

"  Persioot. 

10  Ounces  of  Bitter  Almonds. 

1  Ounce  of  Cinnamon. 

21-2  Gallons  of  Alcohol  or  Fine  Brandy. 

6  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

3  Quarts  of  Water. 

Peel  the  almonds  and  pound  and  mix 
with  the  cinnamon,  and  steep  for  fifteen 
days  in  the  alcohol.  Then  distill  in  a 
water  bath,  add  the  syrup,  color  with 
Cochineal  or  Caramel,  and  bottle  for  use. 


Sassafras    Mead. 

Bolsson  au  Sassafran. 

4  Bunches  of  Sassafras  Roots. 
11-2  Pints  of  Honey. 

•■  %r'?,  ^ints  o'  Louisiana  Molasses. 
,  i  Tablespoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Carbonate    of   Soda. 

This  is  a  noted  Creole  summer  drink 
and  is  prepared  as  follows:  Take  th» 
roots  of  sassafras,  and  make  about  two 
i^">^  K°?,  Sassafras  Tea.  Strain  wri° 
Set  to  boil  again,  and  when  it  boils  add 
one  and  one-half  pints  of  honey,  and 
^l,?^  and  one-half  pints  of  Louisiana 
Syrup  or  Molasses.  Add  a  tablespoonful 
?^  ^""^  w.?^  Tartar.  Stir  well  and  set 
to  cool.  When  cool  strain  it.  Take  about 
a  dozen  clean  bottles  and  fill  with  the 
mixture.     Cork  very  tight,  and  put  in  a 

?,=»'  PJ&£^-  ^"^  ^  -^^y  "  ^"1  *>e  ready  for 
use.  When  servmg  this  Mead,  take  a 
glass  and  fill  half  full  with  lie  water. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  the  Mead  and  stir 
a„.q«  half  teaspoonful  of  Carbonate  of 
Soda.  It  will  immediately  foam  up.  Drink 
while  effervescing.,  This  is  a  cheapv 
Pleasant  and  wholesome  summer  bever- 
age in  our  clime.  The  above  recipe  haj 
tiolfs  "^^  "^  Creole  homes  for  genera- 
Blackberry    Wine 

,  Vin    de    Mures. 

4  Quarts  of  Currant  Juice. 
„  11-3    Quarts    of   Cold    Water. 
3   Pounds    of   Granulated   Sugar. 

Mix  all  the  above  ingredients  well  to- 
gether, and  then  let  them  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours,  having,  of  course,  ob- 
tained the  currant  juice  by  cleanly  pick- 
ing, washing  and  drying  and  pressing 
the  berries.  Then  let  it  stand  lor  tw5 
days.  After  this  skim  well,  and  set  In  a 
cool  place  to  ferment  slowly  for  at  least 
SIX  days.  At  the  end  of  this  time  remove 
any  froth  that  has  collected,  and  add  a 
half  teacupful  of  the  best  French  Brandy, 
and  close  tightly.  In  two  days,  when 
it  is  well  settled,  draw  off,  without  dis- 
turbing the  sediment,  and  bottle  tightly 
and  seal.  This  wine  improves  with  age 
Always  have  the  bottles  very  clean  and 
dry  before  bottling,  and  if  larger  propor- 
tions are  used  and  a  cask  is  necessary, 
remember  that  an  old  cask  is  more  desir- 
able than  a  new  one,  on  account  of  the 
taste  of  the  wood,  and  that  the  cask  must 
be  perfectly  fresh  and  sweet-smelling,  or 
ine  wine  will  sour. 

Currant    Wine. 

Vin  de  Groseilles. 

4  Quarts  of  Currant  Juice. 

1 1-3  Quarts  of  Cold  Water. 

3    Pounds    of    Granulated   Sugar. 

Prepare  in  exactly  the  same  manner  a^f 
Blackberry  Wine. 

[Elderberry  Wine. 

Vin  de  Fleurs  de  Sureau. 

1  Peck  of  Elderberries. 
2 1-2  Gallons  of  Water. 

1-4  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1-2  Pint  of  Hop  Yeast. 

Bruise  the  Elderberries,  and  then  dilute 
with  the  water  and  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Then  strain  well  and  press  out  the  juice 
from  the  berries.  Measure  the  whole, 
and  add  the  sugar,  and,  while  half  warm, 
the  yeast.  Let  the  whole  ferment  for  ten 
days.  Then  cork  well.  After  three  month* 
draw  off  the  wine  and  bottle  for  use. 


240  > 


In  making  large  quantities  of  this  wine, 
which  is  used  by  the  Creoles  for  many 
medicinal  purposes,  allow  four  pecks  of 
elderberries  to  every  ten  gallons  of  wa- 
ter, and  to  every  quart  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  half  pint  of 
yeast. 

Muscadine   Wine. 
Vin   de   Muscades. 

4  Quarts  of  Muscadine  Juice. 

1 1-3  Quarts  of  Cold   Water. 

,3    Pounds    of    Granulated    Sugar. 

Prepare  in  exactly  the  same  manner  a.' 
Blackberry    Wine. 

XfOuisiana    Orange    Wine. 

Vin  d'Oranges  de  la  Liouisiane. 

3   Pounds    of   Sugar   to    Every   Gallon    of 

Juice. 

1-3  of  a  Gallon  of  Water. 

The  White  of  1  Egg. 

1   Cake   of  Compressed  Yeast. 

Take  fine  Louisiana  oranges,  and  was^i 
tjiem  well.  Then  dry  with  a  cloth,  an.l 
peel  off  the  yellow  outer  rind  very,  very 
thin,  and  strain  all  the  juice  through  a 
hair  sieve,  three  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar,  the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg,  to 
clarify,  and  one-third  of  a  gallon  of  wa  ■ 
ter.  Put  the  sugar,  the  crushed  eggshell 
and  white  of  the  egg,  beaten  to  a  froth, 
in  a  pcrcelain-lined  saucepan,  and  add 
the  water,  and  boil  to  a  syrup,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  the  egg  from  hard- 
ening. Let  the  syrup  boil  till  it  looks 
clear  when  seen  through  the  froth  of  the 
egg,  which  will  rise  to  the  srrface.  Then 
strain  the  syrup,  and  pour  it  over  the 
grated  orange  zest,  and  let  it  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours.  Then  add  the  orange 
juice,  and  strain,  and  put  it  into  a  cask 
with  a  small  cake  cf  compressed  yeast, 
allowing  half  a  cake  to  five  gallons  of 
wine.  Close  tightly,  but  leave  the  bung 
out  of  the  cask  until  the  wine  ceases  to 
ferment.  As  long  as  fermentation  is  pro- 
gressing there  will  be  a  hissing  sound. 
When  this  ceases  the  fermentation  has 
ceased.  Then  add  a  glass  of  good  Brandy 
for  each  gallon  of  Wine,  close  the  cask, 
drive  in  the  bung,  and  let  the  wine  stand 
for  at  least  nine  months.  Then  bottle 
It,  and  about  four  months  after  it  has 
been  bottled  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  This 
is  an  excellent  Louisiana  wine,  and  can 
be  made  with  little  expense. 

Scuppernong    Wine. 

Vin  de  Muscades. 

4  Quarts  of  Scuppernong  Juice. 

1  1-3   Quarts  of  Cold  Water. 
3    Pounds    of    Granulated    Sugar. 

Prepare  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
Blackberry  Wine.     (See  recipe.) 

Strawberry   Wine. 

Vin    de    Fraises. 

4  Quarts  of  Strawberry  Juice. 

1 1-3  Quarts  of  Cold  Water. 

3    Pounds    of    Granulated    S'ugar. 

Follow  in  every  respect  the  recipe  given 
for  Blackberry   Wine. 

BOOT    BEER. 

Biere    Creole. 

1-2    Pint    of    Root    Beer    Extract    (Hire's 

Solution). 

10   Pounds    of    Sugar. 

10    Gallons   of    Lukewarm,    Filtered    Mis- 
sissippi   River    Water. 


1   Pint  of  Yeast,   or  1 1-2   Cakes   of  Com- 
pressed  Yeast. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  thoroughly  in  the 
water,  and  then  add  the  Root  Beer  Ex- 
tract and  the  yeast.  If  you  use  the  cake 
yeast,  dissolve  it  first  in  a  little  water, 
so  that  it  will  mix  well  with  the  beer. 
Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and  then 
bottle  in  strong  bottles  or  in  jugs,  cork- 
ing and  tying  the  corks  very  securely, 
so  that  the  gas  may  not  escape  from  the 
solution.  Then  set  the  beer  away  in  a 
place  of  even  temperature.  It  will  be 
ready  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours  after 
bottling,  or  even  ten,  but  will  be  far  more 
effervescing  if  allowed  to  stand  three  or 
tour  days.  Always  place  the  bottle  on 
ice  or  in  a  very  cool  place  just  before 
opening  it,  if  you  wish  it  to  be  cod), 
sparkling  and  delicious. 

SPBUCE     BEER. 

Biere  de  Sapin. 

Take  sprigs  of  spruce  and  boil  until 
you  have  an  ounce  of  strong  essence. 
Take  one  ounce  of  hops  and  a  spoonful 
of  ginger,  and  put  them  into  a  gallon  of 
water.  When  well  boiled  strain  the  mix- 
ture, and  add  a  pint  of  lH)ulsiana  Mo- 
lasses or  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  an.3 
then  add  the  extract  of  Spruce.  Whe,i 
cool  add  a  teacupful  of  yeast  (home- 
made), and  put  all  into  a  clean,  tight 
cask,  and  let  it  ferment  for  twenty-four 
hours  or  two  days.  Then  bottle  for  use. 
Essence  of  Spruce  may  be  purchased  and 
used  instead  of  the  sprigs  of  spruce,  or 
the  Spruce  Gum  may  be  boiled.  The  Cre- 
oles always  use  the  sprigs,  or  spruce  bark 
rich  with   gum. 

GIXGER    BEER. 

Biere  de  Gingembre. 
2  Ounces  of  Bruised  Ginger  Root. 
2  Ounces  of  Cream  of  Tartar. 
4  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water. 
The  Juice  and  Rind  of  1  Lemon. 
1 1-2  Pounds  of  Granulated  Sugar. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Yeast,  or  1-4  of  a  Cake. 
Bruise  and  pound  the  ginger  well,  anfl 
put  it  into  a  bowl  with  the  boiling  water. 
Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  the  well- 
grated    zest.    Add    the    Cream    of    Tartar 
and  the  sugar,  mixing  and  stirring  con- 
stantly.    When    it   is    lukewarm    add   the 
yeast,    dissolved    in    a    little    water.    Mix 
well   and   cover   tightly,   and   let  it  stand 
for  six  hours.     Then  strain  it  and  put  It 
Into  bottles  with  patent  tops  and  keep  Ic 
a  cool  place.     It  effer\-esces  rapidly  if  not 
kept  most  securely  corked. 

DOMESTIC     BEVER.4GES. 
Boissons   de    Menage. 
Under   the   heading   of  "Domestic   Bev- 
erages" might  properly  be  classed  Coffee, 
Tea,    Chocolate    and    Cocoa,    daily   drinks 
in  almost  every  Creole  household. 
TE.V. 
Du   The. 
Tea    has    a    stimulating    and    grateful 
effect  when  not  taken  in  excess,  and  pro- 
motes digestion. 

The  Creoles  use  most  exclusively  th« 
black  and  green  tea  mixed,  preferring  the 
flavor  always  of  the  Hyson,  Oolong,  Bo- 
hea.  Gunpowder  or  Heno.  Like  Coffee, 
Tea  should  never  be  boiled.  It  should  al- 
ways be  made  from  fresh  boiling  watpr, 
and  never  in  any  but  an  earthen  or  a^ate 
teapot.  Tea  made  in  earthen  tea  urn<! 
requires  longer  to  draw  than  if  made  in 
bright  metal  pots.  Tea  should  never  be 
suffered  to  stand  long,  as  it  acquires  an 
unpleasant  taste  and  loses  its  delightful 
aroma  and  fragrance. 


241 


The  spout  of  the  teapot  should  always 
be  closed  by  a  cover,  secured  by  a  chain, 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  aroma,  an.l 
the  urn  itself  should  be  closed  at  the 
top  with  a  tightly-fitting  cover. 

To  make  good  tea,  first  see  that  the 
teapot, is  perfectly  clean.  Then  pour  boil- 
ing water  into  it,  and  let  it  stand  for 
five  minutes,  so  that  the  metal  or  earthen 
urn  may  become  thoroughly  heated.  Then 
throw  out  this  water,  a  nd  drain  the  urn 
well.  Allow  a  teaspoonful  of  tea  for 
each  cup  of  boiling  water,  or,  if  you  de- 
sire stronger  tea,  allow  two  teaspoonfuis. 
Put  this  tea  into  the  hot  pot,  and  pour 
over  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  if  you 
wish  to  make  a  quart,  or,  according  ti> 
the  quantity  desired,  one-half  a  cup  oi: 
water  to  each  cup.  L.et  this  solution 
draw  for  five  minutes  in  front,  not  on 
top,  the  stove  or  range,  as  tea  that  has 
the  least  indication  of  boiling  is  con- 
demned by  the  best  ethics  of  Creole  Cook- 
erv.  After  five  minutes  add  the  other 
pint  of  water,  or  water  in  proportion  ^o 
the  number  of  cups  desired,  allowing  a 
half  cup  more  for  each  person.  Serve  at 
once,  very  hot. 

In  serving  the  tea,  put  the  cream  or 
milk  or  sugar  into  the  cups.  The  milk 
should  be  cold  and  unboiled,  as  the 
boiled  milk  destroys  the  flavor  of  the 
tea.  Cream  is  far  preferable  to  milk. 
Have  the  tea  very  hot,  and  pour  over 
the  milk,  allowing  twc  teaspoonfuis  or 
four  of  milk  to  each  person,  or  suiting 
individual  tastes. 

Always  have  a  pitcher  of  very  hot  wa- 
ter at  hand  when  about  to  serve  the  tea 
Pour  a  little  into  each  cup  to  warm  it, 
and  then  empty  before  putting  in  the 
milk  and  tea.  Pour  the  tea  through  n 
strainer,  so  as  to  avoid  the  possibility  of 
leaves  or  dregs  passing  into  the  cup. 


The  tea  leaves  that  have  been  infused 
in  an  earthen  teapot  may  be  used-  again, 
as  all  the  aroma  has  not  been  extracted 
by  the  first  infusion.  The  tea  brewed  in 
a  metal  pot  must  never  be  used  a  sf^nnn'^ 
time,  as  by  standing  it  absorbs  tne  acid 
of  the  tin.  Indeed,  metal  teapots  are  cor- 
demned   by  the  best  Creole  housekeepers. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Du  Chocolat. 

1  Cake  of  Srated  French  or  German 

Chocolate. 

1  Quart  of  New  Milk. 

Set  the  milk  to  boil;  in  the  meantime 
mix  the  grated  chocolate  with  a  little  hot 
water,  to  blend  thoroughly.  Stir  this  in 
the  milk  as  it  begins  to  simmer,  and  let 
it  boil  up  once,  and  serve  hot,  each  one 
sweetening  to  taste,  or  allow  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  entire  mixture. 
Serve  hot,  with  or  without  Whipped 
Cream. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  allow  chocolate  to 
boil  a  long  time.  The  basis  of  Chocolate 
is  sugar  and  cocoa,  and  the  first  gains 
nothing  by  boiling,  and  the  second  loses 
its  fragrant  perfume  by  evaporation. 

In  economical  households  one-half  a 
cup  of  water  is  sometimes  allowed  to 
three-"uarters  of  a  cup  of  milk  in  mak- 
ing Chocolate. 

COCOA. 

Du  Cacao. 

1   Quart   of  Milk. 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cc-coa. 

Set  the  milk  to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler, 
and  moisten  the  Cocoa  with  a  little  milk, 
and  pour  it  into  the  milk  just  as  it  begins 
to  simmer,  stirring  all  the  while.  Let  it 
boil  up  once,  and  serve  hot,  with  or 
without  "Whipped  Cream. 


CHAPTER  XLIV. 
JSLLIES,    MARMALADES,    PKBSEBVES. 

Des    Confitures,    des    Marmalades    et    des    Conserves. . 


In  making  jellies,  marmalades  or  pre- 
serves, use  only  perfectly  sound  and  fresh 
fruit.  Do  not  cook  them  long  enough  to 
destroy  their  natural  flavor,  and  seal 
them  while  boiling  hot  in  airtight  jars, 
and  be  careful  to  fill  these  even  to  over- 
flowing, so  as  to  preclude  the  possibility 
of  the  least  air  entering  the  bottle.  Then 
seal  quickly.  Heat  the  jars  before  filling, 
and  use  a  wide-mouthed  funnel  during 
tlie  process  of  filling.  The  large-mouthed 
jars  that  now  come  with  porcelain-lined 
glass  tops  are  the  best.  When  once  the 
jars  are  filled,  immediately  screw  on  th? 
tops,  and  put  them  in  a  dry,  warm  olace, 
where  there  is  not  the  least  possibility  of 
the  air  striking  them.  After  twenty-four 
hours  turn  the  tops  on  still  more  tightly, 
so  as  to  be  sure  to  exclude  the  entrance 
of  all  air,  and  set  them  away  in  a  cool, 
dark  storeroom  or  closet.  The  room  must 
not  be  cold.  After  six  days  examine  ih'i 
jars  carefully.  If  there  is  not  the  least 
si"-"  of  any  air  bubbles  O'n  the  surface, 
and  the  liquid  seems  to  have  settled  per- 
fectly, the  fruit  is  keeping  properly.  If, 
on  the  contrary,  there  is  the  least  sign 
of  an  air  bubble,  the  fruit  is  beginning 
to  ferment,  and  if  the  bottle  is  not  opened 
.  immediately-  it  will  burst  shortly.  Take 
out  the  fruit,  recork  it,  and  prepare  the 
jars  again,  and  return  the  fruit  to  them, 
takingr  extra  precautions  to  prevent  the 
entrance  of  any  particle  of  air.  In  pre- 
serving large   fruits,   always   throw  them 


into  cC'ld  water  as  soon  as  they  have 
been  pared.  Then  have  ready  a  pot  of 
clear,  boiling  syrup  and  proceed  as  di- 
rected below. 

Use  all  surplus  juices  that  exude  from 
berries  to  make  jellies. 

Never  make  preserves  on  a  damp,  rainy 
day,  and  never  use  fruits  that  are  over- 
ripe, or  that  have  been  picked  in  wet 
weather-     They  will  sour. 

Always  have  the  jars  exposed  several 
days  in  the  air  in  a  dry  place,  so  that 
they  may  be  perfectly  dry. 

In  all  cases  the  jars  must  be  entirely 
full,  so  as  to  leave  no  room  for  air,  and 
must  be  sealed  as  hot  as  possible. 

Set  the  jars  in  warm  water  before  fill- 
ing^ and  let  them  gradually  heat  before 
introducing  the  hot  preserves  else  they 
will  crack- 
Let  all  bubbles  rise  to  the  top,  and  if 
you  see  any  in  the  lower  part  of  the  jar, 
insert  a  silver  fork,  which  will  cause 
them  to  rush  to  the  top.  Then  have 
ready  a  strong  piece  of  muslin,  large 
enough  to  tie  over  the  mouth,  and  with 
a  spoon  spread  over  a  thick  co'at  of  ce- 
ment made  of  one  pound  of  rosin  and 
two  ounces  of  mutton  suet,  well  mixed 
and  melted.  Take  up  the  cover  quickly, 
place  it  on  the  jar,  with  the  cement  side 
downward,  and  press  it  down  closely  over 


242 


the  sides.  Tie  It  down  with  twine,  and 
finish  with  a  good  coat  of  cement  over 
the  whole.  Set  the  jars  in  a  large  pan 
of  hot  water,  to  cool  gradually,  on  no  ac- 
count attempting  to  cool  them  out  of 
the  water  or  they  will  crack.  When 
they  are  cold  the  tops  will  be  found 
sunken  in.  This  may  be  taken  as  an 
evidence  that  all  the  air  has  been  ex- 
cluded most  effectually.  The  regular  fruit 
Jars,  made  fo-r  preserving,  do  not  require 
any  muslin,  as  the  lids  are  tight-fitting. 
But  pour  the  cement  around  the  groove 
in  the  top,  so  as  to  seal  tightly. 

If  tin  cans  are  used,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  have  a  man  ready  at  hand  to 
solder  up  the  can  as  soon  as  full. 

If  open  jars  are  used,  cover  first  with 
brandied  paper,  and  then  with  white  na- 
per,  fastened  on  with  a  thick  flour  paste. 
Liabel  and  set  the  jars  away. 

These  directions  for  sealing  will  hold 
in  making  all  preserves,  marmalades  and 
jellies.  Fruit  put  up  in  this  manner  will 
rarely  spoil.  The  one  great  thing  to  be 
remembered  is  to  expel  all  air. 

Apple    Jelly. 

Gelee   de   Pommes. 
1  Pound  of  Sugar  to  Every  Pint  of  Juice. 

Take  pippins  or  other  tart  apples,  pare 
them  and  cut  into  quarters,  put  Into  a 
preserving  kettle,  cover  with  water,  and 
add  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  lot 
them  boil  to  a  marmalade.  Then  strain 
the  juice,  without  squeezing,  through  a 
clean  jelly  bag  made  of  flannel,  and  for 
every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  fine 
sugar.  If  the  apples  are  not  very  tart, 
add  the  juice  also. 

Apricot  Jelly. 
Gelee    d'Abricots. 

To  Every  Pint  of  Fruit  Juice  1  Pound  of 
Sugar. 

Choose  apricots  that  are  just  ripe,  and 
no  more.  Pare  and  cut  In  two,  and  take 
out  the  stones.  Boil  them  in  water  suf- 
ficient to  cover  well,  strain  through  a 
hair  sieve,  and  pour  the  decoction  into 
earthen  dishes.  To  every  pint  of  liquid 
add  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  on  the  fire, 
let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  skimmlnE^ 
while  on  the  fire.  Pour  immediately  into 
cups,  glasses  or  preserve  jars,  and  pro- 
ceed to  seal  as  directed  above.  This  Jelly 
has  a  most  exquisite  flavor  if  the  grated 
rind  of  an  orange  is  added. 

To  make  apricot  juice,  after  pressing 
out  the  juice  put  into  glass  bottles,  and 
add  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  juice,  and  a  little  cinna- 
mon. Shake  the  bottle  well,  until  the 
sugar  is  melted.  Let  it  stand  eight  days. 
Then  filter  the  juice,  pour  it  into  bottles, 
fasten  securely,  and  keep  in  a  cool  placf. 

Cherry    juice    and    all    fruit    juices    are 
prepared  in  the  same  manner. 
Blackberry   Jelly. 
Gelee   de   Mures. 

1    Pound    of    Blackberries.    1    Pound    of 
Sugar. 

To  every  pound  of  blackberries  allow 
a  half  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  berries 
In  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  cover 
them  with  the  sugar  and  let  them  stand 
for  two  hours.  Then  set  over  a  moderate 
fire  and  bring  the  mixture  to  the  boillnn 
point.  Skim  while  boiling;  pour  Imme- 
diately into  cups  and  glasses,  and  cover 
tightly  and  place  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

For  Strawberry  and  Blackberry  Jelly 
combined,  allow  equal  parts  of  the  fruits 
and  proceed  as  above. 


Blue  Plum  and  Damson  Jelly. 

Gelee   de  Prunes. 

1  Pound  of  Fruit. 

3-4  of  a  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Stone   the    fruit,    whether    damsons   or 

plums,    and    allow    three-quarters    of    a 

pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 

Proceed   in   exactly  the   same  manner  as 

for  Blackberry  Jelly. 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly. 

Gelee   de   Pieds   de  Veau. 

S'ee  recipe  under  chapter  on  Compotes. 

Cherry  Jelly. 

Gelee   de   Cerises. 

1  Pound  of  Cherries. 
1-2  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Stone  the  cherries  and  allow  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  cher- 
ries if  the  cherries  are  ripe  and  sour, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  otherwise.  Set 
over  the  fire  until  the  heat  causes  the 
juice  to  flow  freely,  and  proceed  in  ex- 
actly the  same  manner  as  for  Strawberry 
or  Blackberry  Jelly. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Gelee  de  Groseilles. 

To  Every  Pint  of  Juice  1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

Take  currants  that  are  fully  ripe; 
clean,  pick,  wash  and  boll.  To  everv  pint 
of  juice  add  one  pound  of  fine  white 
sugar.  Let  it  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
always  skimming  it  while  on  the  fire. 
Do  not  let  it  remain  longer  than  twenty 
minutes,  or  It  will  grow  dark.  Pour  Im- 
mediately into  cups. 

Some  boil  the  currants  without  the 
sugar,  and  then,  for  every  pint  of  juice, 
after  taking  off  the  fire,  they  add  the 
sugar  In  the  proportions  given,  stirring 
briskly  till  all  is  absorbed  and  dissolved, 
then  the  jars  are  filled  as  quickly  as 
possible,  for  the  preparation  jellies  at 
once. 

Jellies  made  in  this  way  are  of  much 
lighter  color  than  when  the  sugar  Is 
boiled  into  them. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Jelly. 

Gelee  de  Groseilles  Framboisee. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Fruit  Juice. 

Take  equal  parts  of  currants  and  rasp- 
uerries  and  strain  the  juice,  and  proceed 
as  above,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  to 
every  pint  of  berry  juice. 

To  every  quart  of  large  red  raspberries 
allow  a  half  pint  of  currant  juice;  place 
in  a  kettle,  add  the  sugar  and  bring  to 
a  boil,  and  proceed  as  directed  above. 

Lemon  Jelly. 

Gelee   de   Citron. 
4   Lemons.    1-2   Can   of   Gelatine. 
1  Quart  of  Water. 
Grate  three  or  four  lemons  Into  a  pound 
of  refined  sugar,  and  press  out  the  juice. 
Then    boil    one-halt   a    can    of   Gelatine — 
(see   Calf's   Foot  Jelly) — in   one   quart  of 
water,  and.  when  reduced  to  one-half  the 
quantity,  add  the  juice  and  sugar;  set  all 
to  boil  on  a  very  hot  coal  fire^  and  then 
Dour  immediately  into  a   glass  or  porce- 
lain  dish;    fill   the   glasses   and  set  in  a 
cool  place. 

Orancre  Jelly. 

Gelee    de    Citron. 

6  Oranges. 

1-2  Can  of  Gelatine. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 

for   Lemon   Jelly. 


243 


Orangre    Jelly,    Creole    Style. 

Gelee  a  I'Orange  a   la   Creole. 

6  Louisiana   Oranges. 

1-2  Box  of  Gelatine.     1-2  Gill  of  Curaooa. 

Sugar  to  Taste. 

Extract  the  juice  of  the  oranges.  Soak 
the  gelatine,  if  prepared,  and  set  the 
bowl  in  boiling  water  till  the  gelatine 
melts.  Then  add  the  juice  of  the  orange, 
and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Add  a  wine- 
glassful  of  the  best  Curacoa,  and  strain 
the  jelly  through  a  coarse  piece  of  Swiss. 
Set  in  a  mold  to  harden. 

The  Creoles  have  a  pretty  way  of  mak- 
ing baskets  out  of  the  oranges  and  serv- 
ing the  jelly  in  them.  Every  little  Creole 
child  knows  how  to  make  these  baskets. 
With  a  sharp  knife  they  trace  out  a  bas- 
ket in  the  skin  of  the  orange,  and  then 
gradually  loiasening  the  pulp,  they  out 
out  the  orange,  without  breaking  the 
skin.  The  orange  meat  is  then  used  for 
the  jelly,  and  the  baskets  are  thrown  into 
ice  water  for  an  hour.  This  makes  them 
stiff.  When  the  jelly  is  hard,  it  is  cut 
into  little  squares,  and  gradually  made  to 
fit,  like  blocks,  into  the  baskets.  These 
baskets  are  placed  in  a  dish,  beautifully 
garnished  with  delicate  buds  and  green- 
ery, and  the  effect  ia  very  charming. 
Again,  the  oranges  are  cut  open  in  tliig 
manner.  The  peel  is  marked  off  into 
eighths  and  pulled  from  the  upper  end 
of  the  stem,  without  separating  the 
orange  peels,  -which  open  like  a  beauti- 
ful flower.  The  jelly  is  piled  into  this 
■when  cool,  whipped  cream  is  heaped  on 
the  top,  a  few  luscious  strawberries  are 
placed  in  the  cream,  and  this  is.  not  only 
a  most  beautiful  picture  on  the  table,  bat 
a  delicious  dessert.     Try  it. 

Peach    Jelly. 

Gelee  de  Peches. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar  to  Every  Pint  of  Fruit 
Juice. 
Choose  peaches  that  are  just  ripe,  and 
no  more.  Pare  and  out  in  two,  and  take 
out  the  stone.  Boil  them  in  water  suffi-, 
cient  to  cover  well,  strain  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  pour  the  decoction  into  earthen 
dishes.  To  every  pint  of  liquid  add  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Set  on  the  fire,  let  It 
boil  twenty  minutes,  skimming  while  on 
tne  fire.  Pour  immediately  into  cups, 
glasses  or  preserve  jars,  and  oroceed  aj 
directed  above. 

Pear    Jelly. 

Gelee  de  Poires. 

1  Pound   of   Sugar   to   Every  Pint   of 
liiquid. 

Choose  pears  that  are  just  ripe,  and 
no  more.  Pare  and  cut  in  two,  and  take 
out  the  stones.  Boil  them  in  water  suf- 
ficient to.  cover  well,  strain  through  a 
hair  sieve,  and  pour  the  decoction  into 
earthen  dishes.  To  every  Dint  of  liquid 
add  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  on  tho  fire, 
let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  skimminij 
while  on  the  fire.  Pour  immediate'^'  into 
cups,  glasses  or  preserve  jars,  and  pro- 
ceed as  directed. 

Pineapple   Jelly. 

Gelee  d'Ananas. 
3-4  Pound  of  White  Sugar  to  Every 
Pound  of  Grated  Pineapple. 
Pare  the  pineapple,  take  out  the  eyes 
and  grate  carefully,  or  pick  into  fine 
pieces.  To  every  pound  of  pineapple  al- 
low three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  white 
sugar.  Put  the  pineapple  and  the  sugar 
to  boil  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  ar,d 
cook  over  a  moderate  fire  for  ten  or  fif- 


teen   minutes,    as    directed    above.     Then 

proceed  to  pour  into  jelly  glasses  or  jara, 

cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Quince   Jelly. 

Gelee   de   Coings. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar  to  Every  Pint  of  Fruit 

Liquid. 

Pare  and  cere  the  quinces,  and  cut  into 
slices.  Boil  until  well  done,  which  may 
be  determined  by  running  a  fork  through 
them.  Then  strain  the  liquor  through  a 
flannel  bag,  and  measjire  it,  allowing 
one  pound  of  white  sugar  to  every  pint 
of  juice.  Place  the  whole  on  a  fire  in 
the  preserving  kettle,  and  watch  closely. 
Do  not  let  it  boil  o-ver.  Try  occasionally 
on  a  saucer.  When  it  begins  to  grow 
solid  it  is  done.  Then  proceed  to  bottle 
as  directed  above. 

Raspberry   Jelly, 

Gelee    de   Framboises. 

To  Every  Pound  of  Berries  1-2  Pound  of 

Sugar. 

To  every  pound  of  raspberries  allow  a 
half  of  a  pound  of  sugar.     Put  the  ber- 
ries in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  cover 
them  with  the  sugar  and  let  them  stand 
for  two  hours.     Then  set  over  a  moderate 
fire   and  bring  the  mixture   to   a  boiling 
point.     Skim   iwhile    boiling;    pour    imme- 
diately into  cups  and   glasses,  and  covor 
tightly  and  place  in  a  cool  dry  place. 
Strawberry  Jelly. 
Gelee   de  Praises. 
To     Every     Pound     of     Berries     a     Half 
Pound  of  Sugar. 

To  every  pound  of  strawberries  allow 
a  half  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  har- 
ries in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  cover 
them  with  the  sugar  and  let  them  stand 
for  two  hours.  Then  set  over  a  moderate 
fire  and  bring  the  mixture  to  a  boiling 
point.  Skim  while  boiling;  pour  imme- 
diately into  cups  and  glasses,  and  cover 
tightly  and  place  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
JAMS. 
Des    Marmelades. 

Marmalades  are  a  mixture  of  fruits 
that  have  been  reduced  to  a  paste  of  such 
consistency  that  they  may  be  preserved. 
Ripe  fruits,  which  cannot  bear  the 
process  of  blanching  required  in  preserv- 
ing whole  fruits  are  used  for  this  pur- 
pose. Tlie  beauty  and  the  taste  of  a 
marmalade  will  depend  on  the  fruits  that 
are  used  and  the  quality  of  sugar,  as  also 
the  care  bestO'wed  on  the  preparation. 
The  Creoles,  like  their  ITrench  ancestors, 
are  noted  for  their  delightful  ^irepara- 
tions  of  marmalades. 

Directions   for  Making   a   Marmalade. 

Always  choose  ripe,  beautiful,  luscious 
fruit.  Cut  the  fruit  into  small  nieces, 
and  then  add  the  sugar  and  fruit  in  al- 
ternate layers  in  the  preserving  kettle, 
with  a  layer  of  fruit  on  the  bottom.  Set 
the  kettle  over  the  fire.  If  the  fruit  ia 
not  very  juicy  add  a  small  quantity  of 
water  to  set  it  to  boiling  and  to  extract 
the  juices.  As  the  fruit  boils,  shako  the 
kettle  occasionally  by  lifting  it  from  the 
fire,  and  turn  the  whole  briskly  to  pre- 
vent it  from  burning  at  the  bottom. 
Never  stir  with  a  spoon,  as  it  will  be 
sure  to  burn.  When  the  whole  mixture 
begins  to  look  very  clear,  and  you  see, 
by  testing  a  portion  on  a  plate,  that  it  Is 
growing  thick,  it  is  done.  Then  take 
from  the  fire  and  put  into  jars  at  once. 
This  mode  of  cooking  distinguishes  the 
marmalade  from  preserves  an_d  jellies. 

Follow  these  directions  implicitly  in  th» 
subjoined   recipes: 


^44 


Apple     Marmalade. 

Marmelade  de  Pcmmes. 

3  1-2    Pounds    of    Fruit    to    2    Pounds    of 
Sugar. 

Peel  the  apples  and  cut  them  into  quar- 
ters, extracting  all  the  seeds.  Then  throw 
them  into  fresh  water,  sufficient  to  half 
cover,  and  set  them  on  the  fire.  When 
they  begin  to  grow  soft,  mash  them  with 
a  wooden  spoon;  then  add  the  sugar;  add 
the  grated  rinds  of  several  lemons;  mix 
well,  and  then  set  all  back  upo-n  the  fire. 
Stir  the  mixture  while  boiling  until  it  's 
of  the  proper  consistency,  and  then  pour 
it  into  jars  or  glasses.  Allow  three  and 
a  half  pounds  of  fruit  to  two  pounds  of 
sugar. 

Cherry  Jam. 

Marmelade  de  Cerises. 

For    Every    Pound    of    Cherries    3-4    of    a 
Pound   of  Sugar. 

Select  fine,  ripe  cherries.  Stc-ne  them, 
but  be  careful  not  to  allow  them  to  lose 
their  juice.  Allow  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  fruit. 
Arrange  in  layers  as  directed  above,  sot 
on  the  fire,  and  boil  till  the'  syrup  is 
very  clear  and  begins  to  form  a  jelly 
when  a  portion  is  turned  upon  a  niate. 
Then  bottle  as  directed. 

Orange    Marmalade. 

Marmelade  d'Oranges. 

To  Everv  6  Oranges  Allow  2  Lemons. 

To  Every  Pound  of  Fruit  3-4  of  a  Pound 

of  Sugar. 

Select  fine,  ripe  Louisiana  oranges. 
Remove  the  rind,  grate  it,  and  grate 
the  pulp,  preserving  carefully  every  par- 
ticle of  juice.  Extract  the  seeds.  To 
every  six  oranges  and  juice  allow  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Then  weigh  the  whole,  and  allow  for 
every  pound  of  fruit  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Cook  the  whole,  adding. 
of  course,  the  grated  rind  of  the  oranges, 
and  when  done  turn  into  jelly  tumblers. 
Test  by  turning  a  portion  on  a  plate. 
When  it  begins  to  jelly,  which  will  he  in 
about  twenty-five  minutes,  the  mixture 
is  readv  to  be  turned  into  the  tumblers 
and  sealed. 

A  marmalade  of  orange  and  lemon  peel 
may  be  made  by  putting  the  rinds  into  a 
jar  of  water,  and  letting  them  stand  for 
several  days.  Then  drain  and  grate  or 
pound  soft.  Allow  a  half  pound  of  sugar 
for  every  pound  of  pulp.  Mix  a  little 
water  to  start  the  boiling,  and  let  all 
cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Then 
proceed  to  turn  into  jelly  glasses. 

Pear    Marmalade. 

Marmelade   de  Poires. 

2  Pounds  of  Sugar  to  Every  31-2  Pounds 
O'f  Pears. 

Peel  the  pears  and  cut  them  into  quar- 
ters, extracting  all  the  seeds.  Then  throw 
them  into-  fresh  water,  sufficient  to  half 
cover,  and  set  them  on  the  fire.  When 
they  begin  to  grow  soft,  mash  them  with 
a  wooden  spoon;  then  add  the  sugar;  add 
the  ^rated  rinds  of  several  lemons;  mix: 
well,  and  then  set  all  back  upon  the  fire. 
Stir  the  mixture  while  boiling  till  It  ^s 
of  the  proper  consistency,  and  then  pc-ur 
it  into  jars  or  glasses.  Allow  three  and 
a  half  pounds  of  fruit  to  two  ijpunds  of 
sugar. 


Peach  Marmalade. 

Marmelade  de  Peches. 

To    Every    Pound    of    Peaches    3-4    of    a 
Pound    of  Sugar. 

Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  every  pound  of  fruit.  Take  ripe  fruit; 
pare  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  Dlace 
in  the  preserving  kettle,  with  a  layer  of 
fruit  and  a  layer  of  sugar,  and  so  alter- 
nate till  all  is  in.  Cook  over  the  fire  a-a 
directed.  Watch  carefully  that  they  do 
not  burn.  When  they  begin  to  form  a 
jelly  take  off  the  fire  and  put  away  in 
stone  jars  or  glasses.  Apricot  and  Plum 
Marmalade  are  made  in  the  same  man- 
ner. 

Pineapple  Marmalade. 
Marmelade   d'Ananas. 

To    Every   Pound    of   Pineapple   3-4   of  a 
Pound    of   Sugar. 

Pare  the  pineapple,  and  remove  the 
eyes.  Grate  carefully,  preserving  the 
juice.  Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  the  grated 
fruit,  and  proceed  as  directed  above. 

Quince    Marmalade. 

Marmelade   de  Coings. 

For  Every  Pound  of  Quince  Add  3-4  of  a 

Pound  of  Sugar. 
Take  ripe  quinces;  cut  them  into  small 
pieces;  steam  them  in  sufficient  water  to 
cover  them,  and  let  them  cook  till  they 
can  be  mashed  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
When  well  mashed  in  the  water,  pour 
in  the  sugar,  allowing  three-fourths  of 
a  pound  for  every  nound  of  fruit.  Then 
proceed  to  arrange  in  layers  as  directed 
.above.  Add  the  mixture;  cook  until  it 
assumes  a  bright  red  color.  Test  by 
pouring  on  a  saucer  just  sufficient  to  see 
if  it  will  jelly:  when  it  reaches  this  de- 
gree of  consistency,  proceed  to  run  into 
jars  or  glasses.  When  cold  it  will  be 
quite   solid. 

Raspberry    Jam. 

Marmelade  de  Framboises. 

To  Every  Pound  of  Raspberries  1  Pound 
of   Sugar. 

Select  fine,  ripe  fruit,  and  weigh,  and 
allow  equal  weights  of  fruit  and  sugar. 
Proceed  to  boil  as  directed.  When  they 
begin  to  jelly,  they  are  ready  to  be  turned 
into  glasses. 

Raspberrv  Jam  is  very  much  improved 
by  the  addition  of  a  ?lass  of  currant 
juice,  cooking  all  together. 

Strawberry    Jam. 

Marmelade  de  Fraises. 

To    Every   Pound    of   Berries   1   Pound   of 

Sugar. 

Select  fine,  ripe  strawberries,  and 
weigh,  and  allow  equal  weights  of  fruit 
and  su^ar.  Proceed  to  boil  as  directed. 
When  they  begin  to  jelly,  they  are  ready 
to  be  turned  into  the  jelly  glasses. 

Conserve  of  Grapes. 

Marmelade  de  Raisins. 

To  Every  Pint  of  Fruit  Juice  1-2  Pound 
of    Sugar. 

Boil  the  grapes  for  one  hour,  and  then 
press  them  through  a  sieve.  Add  a  half 
pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  liquid, 
and  proceed  as  directed  above. 


245 


Orangfe    Flower    and    Rose    Gonserves. 

Conserve  de  Fleur  d'Oranger  et  de  Roses 

8   Ounces   of  Rose   Water. 

2  Ounces  of  Powdered  Orange  Petals. 

1 1-2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

This  is  a  delicious  and  recherche  Creole 
Conserve  Take  two  ounces  of  powdered 
orange  flower  petals,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  eight  ounces  of 
rose  water.  Steep  the  petals  in  distilled 
water,  and  then  add  the  sugar,  and  set 
to  heat  over  a  moderate  fire.  Add  the 
rose  water.  When  it  begins  to  jelly  turn 
into  a  jelly  glass. 

Violet   Conserve. 

Conserve  de  Violettes. 

2   Ounces  of   Freshly-Gathered  Violet 

Petals. 

1 1-2  Pounds  of  Sugar, 

This  conserve  is  made  by  pounding  two 
ounces  of  freshly-gathered  violet  petals, 
with  great  care,  into  a  paste,  after  steep- 
ing in  distilled  water  sufficient  to  make 
a  paste.  Then  add  the  sugar,  in  propor- 
tion of  one  and  a  half  pounds,  and  boil 
to  a  flake. 

PRBSEBVES. 

Des  Conserves. 

General     Directions     for     Making 

Preserves. 

Preserving  fruits  is  very  much  on  the 
same  order  as  the  making  of  Jellies,  only 
in  preserving  equal  quantities  of  fruit 
and  sugar  are  used.  Use  only  the  best 
quality  of  sugar. 

Fruits  may  be  preserved  either  whole 
or  otherwise.  In  preserving  fruits  whole, 
it  is  best  to  prick  such  fruits  as  pears, 
plums  and  peaches  with  a  needle,  so  as 
to  give  vent  to  the  juice,  which  would 
otherwise  escape  and  burst  the  skin.  This 
mode  of  preserving  looks  very  beautiful, 
but  the  best  way  is  the  old-fashioned 
one  of  paring  the  fruit  carefully,  either 
in  halves  or  whole,  simply  removing  the 
skins  and  cores.  Then  make  a  syrup  of 
one  pound  of  white  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  fruit.  Set  the  kettle  on  the  fire,  and 
let  the  syrup  boil  till  the  fruit  looks  quite 
clear.  Or  make  the  syrup  by  putting  it 
on  the  fire  with  water,  allowing  a  half 
pint  of  fresh  water  to  a  pound  of  the 
best  white  sugar.  Stir  well  and  brine 
to  a  boil  Let  it  boil  five  ininutes,  when 
it  will  begin  to  bubble  and  froth.  As 
the  froth  rises  the  syrup  will  become 
clear.  Skim  and  set  to  one  side  of  the 
stove  to  settle,  and  it  is  now  ready  to 
receive  the  fruit.  ,    ,    , 

If  the  former  method  is  used,  take  the 
fruit  carefully  out  of  the  syrup  as  soon 
as  possible,  so  as  to  take  up  as  little 
of  the  syrup  as  can  be  helped,  and  then 
place  the  fruit  in  the  jars.  Let  the  syrup 
continue  to  boil  till  it  becomes  very  thicc, 
and  inclined  to  run  into  a  jelly.  Then 
fill  the  jars  up  with  it,  and  when  cool 
tie  with  muslin  or  paper  around  the 
mouth  before  sealing.  But  the  new  jars 
that  come  with  close-fitting  covers  are 
the  best,  as  well  as  the  most  economical 
finally. 

Use  in  preference  a  porcelam-lmed  ket- 
tle If  you  use  a  copper  kettle,  never 
allow  the  preserves,  jams  or  marmalades 
to  cool  in  the  kettle,  on  account  of  the 
virdigris  which  will  be  sure  to  form. 

Examine  the  preserves  from  time  to 
time,  and  change  the  paper  covers  when 
they  are  discolored.  ,     ,  , , 

If  the  slightest  sign  of  air  bubbles  is 
detected,  open  the  jars  immediately  and 
boil    the    fruit    again,    but    this    will    also 


destroy  some  of  the  flavor  and  excellent 
quality. 

It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  keep  all 
preserves,  marmalades  and  jellies  in  a 
cool  (not  cold)  place,  that  is,  perfectly 
free  from  dampness  or  possibility  of  heat. 
Heat  will  excite  fermentation,  and  the 
preserves  will  quickly  sour.  Dampness 
will  cause  them  to  decompose  and  mold. 

Follow  implicitly  the  above  directions, 
and  you  will  be  sure  to  succeed  in  mail- 
ing  preserves,   etc. 

Fig:  Preserves. 

Take  the  weight  in  sugar  of  the  quan- 
tity of  figs  to  be  preserved;  the  figs 
must  be  ripe.  Cover  the  figs  with  cold 
water  for  twelve  hours;  then  simmer  in 
water  enough  to  cover  them  until  ten- 
der, and  spread  out  upon  a  sieve  to  cool 
and  harden.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar, 
a  cup  of  cold  water  being  allowed  for 
every  pound.  Boil  until  clear  of  scum, 
put  in  the  figs,  and  simmer  for  ten  mi.i- 
utes.  Take  them  out  and  spread  upon 
the  dishes  in  the  sun.  Add  the  lemons 
and  the  ginger;  boil  the  syrup  thick,  give 
the  figs  another  boil  of  fifteen  mnutes 
and  fill  the  jars  three-quarters  of  the 
way  up  to  the  top.  Then  fill  up  with 
boiling  syrup,  cover,  and,  when  cold, 
seal  up. 

Lemon  Preserves. 
Conserve  de  Citron. 

1   Pound    of   Sugar   for   Every   Pound    of 

Lemons. 
The  Juice   of  1   Lemon  for  Every  Poun'i 

of  Fruit. 
A  Tablespoonful  of  Alum  for  Bveiy 
Quart  of  Water. 
Cut  the  lemon  in  halves,  after  paring, 
and  remo've  the  seeds.  Then  cut  it  up 
into  a  number  of  thin  slices,  and  put 
them  into  a  vessel  with  cold  water,  add- 
ing a  tablespoonful  of  alum  to  every 
quart  of  water,  or  a  little  salt.  After 
several  hours  put  the  lemon  into  cool, 
fresh  water,  and  let  it  remain  an  hour, 
and  drain.  Then  put  it  into  a  kettle  and 
cover  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Add  the  rinds  of  the  lemon  or  citron, 
and  a  few  pieces  of  ginger  root.  Let  all 
boil  till  perfectly  clear.  Then  take  out 
the  fruit  and  drain  dry.  Then  prepare  a 
syrup,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  for 
every  pound  of  fruit,  and  add  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  for  each  pound  of  fruit.  Put 
the  citron  or  lemon  in  without  the  gin- 
ger and  allow  it  to  boil  for  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  It  will  become  a  beau- 
tiful, clear  amber  color.  Proceed  to  bot- 
tle or  seal  in  jars  immediately. 
Peach  Preserves. 
Conserves  de  Peches. 

To  Every  Pound  of  Fruit  One  Pound  of 
Sugar; 

Prepare  the  syrup  as  above  directed. 
Then  peel  the  peaches  and  cut  them  into 
halves,  removing  the  stones.  Skim  the 
syrup  and  drop  in  the  peaches,  one  at  a 
time  and  let  them  boil  till  tender,  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  They  should 
be  so  tender  that  they  may  be  pierced 
with  a  broom  straw.  This  is  the  test. 
Then  remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire, 
carefully  drain  out  the  peaches  and  put 
them  in  the  jars.  Then  boil  the  syrup 
twenty  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  forma 
a  thick  syrup,  removing  the  scum  as  it 
rises.  Pour  off  any  remains  of  thin  syrup 
that  may  have  adhered  to  the  peaches 
in  the  jar,  and  fill  in  with  the  syrup,  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  screw  the 
tops  of  the  jars  on.     Label  and  set  away. 


246 


Fruit    Preserves. 

Conserves   de    Fruits. 

To  Every  Pound  of  Fruit  Allow  1  Pound 

of  Sugar. 

Apple,  Plum,  Damson,  Grape,  Straw- 
berry, Raspberry,  Currant,  Scuppernong. 
Muscadine,  Pumpkin,  Sweet  Potato  and 
other  preserves  are  prepared  in  the  san:e 
manner  as  in  the  directions  given  foi 
Peach  Preserves,  only  the  berries,  such. 
as  Strawberries,  Blackberries  and  Rasp- 
berries, do  not  require  much  cooking. 
Preserve  Cherries  whole,  stoning  and 
stem.ining. 

Pineapple   Preserves. 

Conserves    d'Ananas. 

To    Every    Pound    of    Fruit    1    Pound    of 
Sugar. 

Pare  the  pineapple  and  remove  the  eyes. 
Then  slice  it  nicely  and  weigh  it.  Al 
low  equal  quantities  of  fine,  powdered 
sugar.  Place  the  fruit  in  a  deep  dish 
and  then  sprinkle  the  sugar  over  it,  be- 
tween the  slices,  in  alternate  layers,  and 
let  it  remain  over  night.  Drain  off  the 
syrup  in  the  morning,  and  put  it  In  a 
kettle,  and  when  it  gets  very  hot  put  in 
the  fruit.  Let  it  cook  slowly  till  the 
slices  look  very  clear,  and  then  skira 
them  out  and  put  them  in  the  jars.  Fill 
to  overflowing,  and  then  seal. 

Qaince  Preserves. 

Conserve    de    Coings. 

To    Every    Pound    of    Fruit    1    Pound    of 

Sugar. 

Pare  the  ripe  quinces,  and  then  cut 
them  into  slices  or  rings.  Weigh  them 
and  put  them  into  the  preserving  kettle 
and  cover  with  water.  When  they  are 
quite  tender,  pour  off  the  superfluous 
water,  leaving  about  half  a  pint  to  everv 
pound  of  fruit,  and  adding  sugar,  pound 
for  pound.  Let  the  whole  boll  till  the 
fruit  is  tender.  Then  carefully  drain  out 
the  fruit  and  lay  it  in  the  jars.  Now  re- 
turn the  kettle  to  the  fire,  and  let  the 
syrup  boil  to  a  jelly.  Then  fill  the  jars 
with  it.  The  jelly  will  grow  clearer  and 
brighter  as  time  goes  on,  and  quinces 
preserved  in  this  way  will  keep  for  years. 

Orange  Preserves. 

Conserve    d'Orange. 

To  Every  Pound  of  Oranges  1  Pound  of 
Sugar. 

Peel  the  oranges.  Then  slice  nicely 
and  weigh.  Allow  equal  quantities  of 
fine  white  powdered  sugar.  Place  the 
fruit  in  a  deep  dish,  and  then  sprinkle 
the    sugar    over    it.    between    the    slices. 


in  alternate  layers,  and  let  it  remain  over 
night.  Drain  off  the  syrup  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  put  it  in  a  kettle,  and  when  ii. 
gets  very  hot  put  in  the  fruit.  Let  It 
cook  slowly  till  the  slices  look  very  clear, 
and  then  skim  them  out  and  put  them 
in  the  jars.  Fill  to  overflowing  and  then 
seal. 

Smali    Oranges    Preserved    Whole. 
Conserves   d'Oranges. 

To  Every  Pound  of  Oranges  1  Pound  of 

Sugar. 

Take  small,  green,  sweet  oranges,  and 
pierce  them  several  times  with  a  pen- 
knife till  very  soft.  Let  tliem  stand  for 
three  days  in  water,  which  must  be  re- 
newed fresh  every  day.  Put  them  in  a 
dish  after  the  third  day,  pooir  thin  clari- 
fied sugar  over  them,  and  then  prepare  a 
syrup  as  above  directed.  Add  the  oranges 
when  it  begins  to  boil,  cook  till  they  are 
tender,  and  proceed  in  the  usual  way. 
Or  the  oranges  may  be  taken  out,  placed 
on  a  sieve  after  the  first  ebullition  of  the 
syrup,  and  drained  and  glazed  or  can- 
died,  as   crytallized   fruit. 

Watermelon    Bind    Preserves. 
Conserve  d'Ecores  de  Melon  d'Eau. 

To   Every  Pound   of  Watermelon  Rind  1 
Pound    of   Sugar. 

Cut  the  watermelon  rind  into  thin 
slices,  and  throw  into  a  bucket  of  fresh 
water,  into  which  you  have  dissolved  a 
teaspoonful  of  alum  for  every  quart  of 
water.  Let  it  remain  for  several  hours. 
until  they  grow  crisp,  and  then  proceed 
in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  in  the 
recipe  for  Citron  preserves. 

Brandy   Peaches. 

Peches  a  I'Eau  de  Vie. 

1-2   Pint    of   Fruit  Water  to  1  Pound  of 

Granulated  Sugar. 

Equal  Parts  of  Brandy  and  Sugar. 

Select  fine  freestone  peaches,  yellow 
or  white,  not  overripe.  Scald  them  with 
boiling  water,  cover  well,  and  let  them 
boil  till  tender.  Then  take  them  out,  and 
drain  on  a  platter,  and  put  in  the  jars 
and  cover  with  Brandy,  and  let  them 
stand  one  week.  Then  make  a  syrup,  al- 
lowing a  half  pint  of  the  water  in  which 
the  peaches  were  boiled  to  one  pound  of 
granulated  sugar.  Take  out  the  peaches, 
drain  them,  and  put  into  glass  jars,  i^et 
the  syrup  cool,  and  mix  equal  parts  of 
this  with  equal  parts  of  the  Brandy,  in 
which  tue  peaches  were  put  up,  pour  over 
the  peaches,  and  seal. 

All  brandied  fruits  are  put  up  In  the 
same   manner. 


CHAPTER  XLV. 
CREOLK  CANDIES. 


Bonbons  et  Sucreries  Creoles. 


Creole  Candies  occupy  a  unique  posi- 
tion among  confections  In  the  United 
States,  and  it  has  often  been  said  that 
the  old  French  Quarter  could  apply  for  a 
patent    for    its    delicious    "Pacanes    a    la 


Creme."  "Praline  Blanc,"  'Pistaches  Pra- 
linees,  "La  Colle,"  "Mais  Tactac,' 
"Dragees,"  "Guimauves,"  "Pastilles," 
"Nougats"  and  other  exclusive  products 
of  the  Creole  cuisine.  The  term  "Pra- 
line" is  not  of  Creole  origin,  being  a  com- 
mon enough  word  in  the  vocabulary  of 
the  French  nation,  with  the  mother  coun- 
try   of    Louisiana    it    simply    means    "su- 


gared," and  has  no  reference  whatever 
to  the  delightful  confections  that  had 
their  origin  in  the  old  Creole  homes  of 
New  Orleans.  There  is,  indeed,  a  tradi- 
tional recipe  of  the  great  Viart,  "Homme 
de  Bouche,"  as  he  called  himself,  who 
tickled  the  palate  of  Charles  X,  in  the 
jocund  days  of  the  Bourbon  restoration, 
and  another  old  tradition  that  the  Praline 
was  a  species  of  Dragee,  which  derived 
its  name  from  the  Marechal  de  Plessin- 
Pralin,  who  was  very  fond  of  almonds, 
and  whose  butler  one  day  advised  him 
to  have  them  coated  with  sugar  to  avoid 


247 


indigestion.  Again,  there  is  an  old  French 
rhyme  of  Gresset's  which  has  become  in- 
corporated in  the  banquette  games  of  the 
littie  Creole  children  of  New  Orleans, 
and  which  runs  thus: 

"Soeur  Rosalie  au  retour  de  matlnes, 
Plus   d'une   fois    lui    porta    des    pralines." 

But  all  these  songs  and  stories  simply 
refer  to  any  sugar-coated  'nut.  It  was 
reserved  for  the  gentle  descendants  of 
these  old  French  ancestral  homes  to 
evolve  from  the  suggestiveness  of  the 
word  "Praline"  dainty  and  delightful  con- 
fections that  have,  for  upwards  of  one 
hundred  and  fifty  years,  delighted  the 
younger  generations  of  New  Orleans,  and 
the  older  ones,  too. 

White    PrallneB. 

Pralines  Blanches  de  Coco. 
1  Pound   of   Fine   White   Sugar    (Granu- 
lated). 
1  Freshly-Grated   Cocoanut    (Small  Size). 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water. 

Use  a  farina  boiler  or  a  porcelain-lined 
saucepan.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  sauce- 
pan with  the  water  and  let  it  boll  well. 
When  it  begins  to  form  a  syrup,  take 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  freshly- 
grated  cocoanut.  Mix  thoroughly  and  re- 
turn to  the  fire,  and  let  It  boil  until  you 
can  draw  it  like  a  thread  between  your 
finger  and  thumb.  Be  careful  to  stir 
constantly  from  the  time  you  add  the 
cocoanut.  When  it  begins  to  bubble,  take 
from  the  stove,  for  it  will  have  reached 
the  above-mentioned  state  in  two  or  three 
minutes.  This  will  be  sufficient  if  you 
wish  the  praline  to  be  light  and  flaVy. 
Have  ready  a  cleanly  washed  and  some- 
what wet  marble  slab  or  buttered  dish. 
Take  a  kitchen  spoon  and  drop  the  mix- 
ture into  cakes  on  the  slab,  spreading 
them  out  with  the  spoon  and  rounding 
with  a  fork  till  they  form  a  neat  round 
cake  of  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in 
thickness  and  four  or  five  inches  in  di 
ameter.  Let  them  dry;  and  then  take  a 
knife  and  gently  raise  them  from  the 
slab.  Tou  will  have  the  -  dainty  while 
pralines  that  are  such  peculiar  Creole 
confections  and  which  are  also  much 
sought    after   by    strangers    visiting   New 

Increase  the  quantity  of  sugar  in  pro- 
portion to  the  size  of  the  cocoanut,  using 
three  pounds  of  finest  white  sugar  for  a 
very  large  cocoanut,  and  never  boil  the 
cocoanut  more  than  a  few  minutes  in  the 
sugar. 

Fink    Pralines. 
Pralines  Rose  de  Coco. 

1    Pound    of   Fine   WTiite    Sugar    (Granu- 
lated) . 
1  Freshly-Grated  Cocoanut    (Small  Size). 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Cochineal. 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  mailner 
as  above,  only  add  about  a  tablespoonful 
of  Cochineal  to  the  pralines.  Just  before 
taking  oft  the  fire.  Proceed  to  drop  on  a 
marble  slab,  as  above. 

Pecan    Pralines. 
Pralines  aux  Pacanes. 

1  Pound  of  Brown  Sugar. 

1-2  Pound  of  Freshly-Peeled  and  Cut 

Louisiana  Pecans. 

1  Spoon  of  Butter. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water. 

Set  the  sugar  to  boil,  and  as  it  begins 
to  boil  add  the  pecans,  which  you  will 
have    divested    of    their    shells,    and    cut 


some  into  fine  pieces,  others  into  halves 
and  others  again  into  demi-halves.  L'3t 
all  boil  till  the  mixture  begins  to  bubble, 
and  then  take  off  the  stove  and  proceed 
to  lay  on  a  marble  slab,  as  above,  to  dry. 
These  pecan  pralines  are  delicious. 

Be  careful  to  stir  the  mixture  in  the 
above  recipe  constantly  till  the  syrup 
begins  to  thicken  and  turn  to  sugar.  Then 
take  from  the  stove  and  proceed  to  turn 
on  the  marble  slab.  One  pound  of  un- 
shelled  pecans  will  make  a  half  pound 
shelled.  In  using  water,  add  just  suffi- 
cient to  melt  the  sugar. 

Cream   Pecans. 

Pacanes  a  la  Creme. 

1  Pound  of  Pecans. 

The  White  of  an  Egg. 

1-4  Pound  of  Finest  White  Confectionery 

Sugar. 

Under  this  suggestive  term  is  known  a 
species  of  confection  that  is  much  used 
by  the  Creole  as  an  addition  to  the  most 
fashionable  and  recherche  feast,  i-eel  the 
pecans  in  halves,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  meat.  Then  take  the  white  of 
an  egg  and  beat  well  with  its  weight  in 
water  till  it  forms  a  cream.  Then  wOTi 
in  with  your  fingers  the  finest  white  con- 
fectionery sugar  till  it  forms  a  smooth 
paste.  Take  a  small  piece  of  this  paste, 
roll  it,  and  put  it  between  two  halves  of 
the  pecans,  and  then  lightly  roll  in  the 
paste,  flattening  the  pecan  somewhaL 
The  coating  outside  must  be  very,  very 
light,  so  that  the  delicate  brown  of  the 
pecan  meat  shows  through.  Set  the  pe- 
cans to  dry,  and  serve  on  dainty  china 
saucers,  setting  a  saucer  to  each  guest. 

Almond   Pralines. 

Amandes  Pralinees. 

1   Pound   of  Beautiful  New  Almonds. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1-2    Glass    of    Water. 

A  Pinch  of  Carmine. 

Peel  the  almonds  whole,  and  then  rub 
them  well  with  a  linen-  cloth,  to  take  off 
any  dust.  Put  them  into  a  skillet  with  a 
pound  of  the  finest  white  sugar,  and  a 
dash  of  Carmine,  if  you  wish  to  tinge 
them  to  a  beautiful  rose.  But  they  are 
very  beautiful  when  a  snowy  white. 
Place  the  skillet  on  the  fire,  stirring  all 
the  time  until  the  almonds  crackle  hard. 
Then  take  off  the  fire  and  worlc  until 
the  sugar  becomes  sandy  and  well- 
detached  from  the  almonds.  Then  sep- 
arate one  part  of  the  sugar,  and  again 
put  the  almonds  on  he  fire,  stirring  them 
lightly  with  a  spoon  as  they  again  pick 
up  the  sugar,  paying  strict  attention  to 
the  fire,  that  it  be  not  too  quick.  WTien 
the  almonds  have  taken  up  this  part  of 
the  sugar,  put  in  that  whicli  you  have 
reS'erved,  and  continue  to  parch  until 
they  have  taken  up  all  the  sugar.  Then 
take  a  piece  of  paper  and  put  it  in  a 
sieve,  and  throw  the  almonds  upon  it, 
shaking  around  so  as  to  separate  those 
which  still  cling  together.  Bach  almond 
must  be  separate  and  incrusted  with 
sugar. 

Peanut   Pralines. 

Pistaches  Pralinees. 

1  Pound  of  Peanuts. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1-2    Glass    of    Water. 
A  Pinch   of  Carmine. 

Peanuts,  which  have  been  dubbed  "Pis- 
taches" by  the  Creoles,  may  be  made  into 
delightful  confections  by  procedure  as 
outlined  above  for  "Amandes  Pralinees."' 


248 


Peanut    Praliiie§. 

Praline  aux  Pistaches. 

1   Pound   of   Peanuts. 

1  Pound  of  Brown  Sugar. 

4    Tablespc'onfuls    of    Water. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Shell  the  peanuts  and  break  into  bits 
Then  set  the  sug-ar  and  water  to  boil, 
and  as  it  begins  to  simmer  add  the  pea- 
nuts and  the  butter.  Stir  constantFy  and 
as  it  bubbles  up  once  take  from  the  fire, 
pour  from  he  spoon  on  the  marble  slab 
or  a  buttered  plate,  and  set  away  to 
harden. 

Alolasses    Candy. 

Oandi  Tire  a  la  Melassee. 

Louisiana  is  rightly  the  home  of  Mo- 
lasses Candy,  for  it  was  right  here,  in 
this  old  city,  in  the  environments  of 
which  sugar  was  first  raised  in  the 
United  States,  and  molasses,  sweet  anl 
health-giving,  was  first  given  to  the 
world,  that  Molasses  Candy,  or  "Candi 
Tire,"  as  the  Creoles  call  it,  first  had 
birth.  "Candi  Tire"  parties,  or  Molasses 
Candy  Pullings,  were  among  the  pleasur- 
able incidents  of  life  among  the  early 
New  Orleans  belles  and  beaux.  Take 
1    Quart    G'f    Louisiana    Molasses. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1   Pound   of   Granulated    Sugar. 

2   Tablespoonfuls   of   Vinegar. 

1-2  Teaspoonful   of  Soda. 

The  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Boil  the  sugar  until  it  becomes  quite 
thick  when  dropped  into  water.  Add  the 
molasses  and  the  vinegar  and  butter.  Boil 
tin  it  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold 
water.  Then  stir  in  a  small  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  and  pour 
into  buttered  tins,  and  as  soon  as  it  be- 
gins to  co-ol  sufficiently  pull  till  white. 
Moisten  the  hands  while  pulling  with  ice 
water  or  butter.  The  sticks  may  be 
single,  twisted,  braided  or  flattened,  ac- 
cording to  taste. 

La    Colle. 

2  Pounds  of  Bro'wn  Sugar. 

Or  1  Pint  of  Molasses. 
2  Cups  of  Louisiana  Pecans. 

"La  Colle"  is  a  delightful  kind  of  mo- 
lasses praline  cake  that  the  old  negro 
cake  and  candy  vendors  make  out  of 
black  molasses  and  pecans  or  peanuts. 
These  cakes  are  placed  in  dainty  white 
paper  cases  and  dried,  and  sold,  to  the 
delight  of  the  little  Creole  children,  and 
older  folks,  too,  for  that  matter.  They 
are  made  by  taking  two  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  and  boiling  it  down  to  almost  one 
pint  of  syrup.  To  this  dark  syrup  add 
two  cups  of  pecans,  cut  or  mashed  in 
various  irregular  sizes.  Then,  when  it 
becomes  so  thoroughly  boiled  that  It 
passes  like  a  thread  between  the  fingers, 
they  pour  it  into  small  white  paper  cases 
about  four  inches  long  and  two  inches 
wide,  making  the  cake  about  a  half  or 
quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  They  set 
these  to  dry,  and  always  find  a  ready 
sale  for  them.  The  cases  are  made  out 
of  white  foolscap  paper,  folded  neatJy 
like  the  light  cover  of  a  box. 

Or,  take  one  pint  of  Molasses  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  Throw  in  the  peanuts,  and 
then  fill  the  little  paper  cases.  Either 
way,  "La  Colle"  is  always  in  demand 
from  the  faithful  old  vendors. 

Pop-Corn    Candy. 

"Tac-Tac." 
1  Cupful  of  lYhite  Sugar. 


,  1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

3    Tablespoonfuls    of    Water. 
,    3  Quarts   of  Nicely-Popped  Corn. 

Put  the  butter,  water  and  sugar  into  a 
boiler,  and  boil  till  it  begins  to  almost 
run  to  candy;  then  throw  in  the  nicely- 
popped  corn;  stir  vigorously  over  the  fire 
until  the  sugar  is  evenly  distributed  over 
the  corn ;  then  take  the  kettle  from  the 
fire  and  stir  until  It  cools  a  little.  In 
this  way  you  will  have  each  grain  or 
kernel  separate  and  coated  with  sugar. 
If  you  wish,  pile  it  into  mounds  and  roil 
into  balls  while  still  hot.  enough  for  the 
grains  to  adhere.  These  are  put  into 
dainty  rolls  of  tissue  paper  and  sold 
along  the  streets  of  New  Orleans. 

Mais    "Tac-Tac." 

1  Pint  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 
3-4  Pound  of  Indian  Corn   (Parched). 

Boil  one  pint  of  Louisiana  molasses, 
and,  as  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point, 
throw  in  about  hree-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  parched  Indian  corn,  parched  to  a 
blossom ;  stir  w^ell,  and  then  pour  into 
little  paper  cases,  about  five  or  six  inches 
in  length,  three  in  width  and  one  and  a 
half  in  depth.  Let  these  cool  before 
touching.  This  is  another  of  the  peculiar 
forms  of  candies  sold  by  the  old  Creole 
negroes  of  New  Orleans. 

CABAM£LS. 

Caramels. 

1  Pound  of  Clarified  Sugar. 

Sufficient  Water  to   Melt. 

Take  one  pound  of  clarified  sugar  and 
add  just  sufficient  water  to  melt;  boil 
it  till  it  is  very  brittle  and  has  the 
slightest  odor  of  begrinning  to  burn: 
then  pour  it  on  a  buttered  slab  or  plaie 
and,  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  to  re- 
ceive an  impression  from  the  finger,  cut 
it  out  with  a  cc-mmon  case  knife  Into 
small  squares  of  about  an  inch  in  size, 
after  which  glace  with  another  coating 
of  sugar.  Let  them  dry  and  keep  them 
tightly  closed,  as  they  are  easily  injured 
and  become  soft  by  contact  with  the  at- 
mosphere. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

Caramels  au  Chocolat. 

1-2  Pound  of  Chocolate.    2  Cups  of  -Sugar. 

1-2    Cup    of   Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

Set  the  sugar  to  boil;  scrape  the  choco- 
late in  the  milk,  and  add  it  to  the  boil- 
ing sugar,  and  stir  in  the  butter;  then 
boil  till  it  forms  a  syrup.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  turn  upon  a  greased  slab  or 
upon  a  buttered  dish  or  pan  that  is  quite 
square.  When  it  begins  to  cool  suffi- 
cient to  receive  an  impression  from  the 
finger,  cut  into  small  squares  with  th*; 
case  knife  and  set  in  a  cool,  dry  place  to 
harden.  A  good  test  as  to  whether  the 
mixture  is  done  is  to  drop  a  little  from 
the  end  of  a  spoon  into  a  cup  of  coid 
water.  If  it  begins  to  harden  instantly, 
it  is  ready  to'  take  from  the  stove. 

The  Cream  Chocolate  Caramel  is  made 
In  the  same  way,  only  cream  is  used  in- 
stead of  milk.  Again,  the  Chocolate  Car- 
amel may  be  made  simply  by  dissolving 
four  ounces  of  chocolate  in  a  little  water 
and  adding  to  a  syrup  made  of  one  pound 
of   sugar. 

To  any  of  the  above  recipes,  essence  of 
vanilla,  orange  or  lemon  may  be  added, 
in  which  case  you  will  have  Vanilla  or 
Orange  or  Lemon  or  Cream  Caramels. 
In  making  the  Lemon  Caramels,  however, 
grate  the  zest  of  the  lemon  with  a  lump 


249 


of  sugar,  and  then  add  to  this  the  lemon 
juice  and  water  enough  to  dissc'lve  the 
sugar.  Stir  the  whole  into  the  boiled 
Caramel  a  few  minutes  before  taking 
from  the  fire  Orange  and  Lime  Caramel 
may  also  be  made  from  the  fruits  In  this 
manner. 

Caramel   Orang:e$. 

Oranges  au  Caramel. 

6  Oranges. 

2  Cups   of   Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Peel  and  quarter  the  oranges  in  theil 
natural  divisions,  being  careful  not  to 
break  through  the  pith  or  allow  the  Juice 
to  escape.  Then  string  them  on  fine  wire, 
or  take  up  on  the  point  of  a  hatpin  and 
dip  into  the  Caramel.  When  sufficiently 
coated,  place  them  in  the  stove  for  a  few 
minutes  to  dry  and  "Glacee,"  or  Glaze. 
(See  recipe  under  Icings  for  Cakes,  etc.) 

Caramel  Chestnuts. 

Marrons   au   Caramel. 

1  Pound  of  Chestnuts. 

2  Cups  of  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Take  fine,  large  Chestnuts,  and  trans- 
fix them  on  a  hatpin  or  on  small  pointed 
sticks.  Dip  them  in  the  Caramel,  and 
then  dry  and  Glacee  them.  (See  Glacee 
under  heading  Icings  for  Cakes,  etc.) 

BONBONS. 

Candy     Drops, 

Pastilles. 

1   Pound   of   Sugar. 
Water  to  Dilute. 
Flavoring  Extract  to  Taste. 

These  are  favorite  candies  with  the 
Creoles,  and  very  easy  to  make.  They 
may  be  of  any  size,  a  lozenge,  a  tablet 
or  a  drop,  and  they  may  also  be  of  any 
color.  Pound  and  sift  a  pound  of  sugar 
that  has  been  doubly  refined,  first 
through  a  coarse  and  then  through  a 
fine  sieve.  Put  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and 
add  the  flavoring  extract,  whether  of 
lemon,  orange,  cinnamon,  cloves,  rose  or 
violet  or  vanilla  or  carmine.  Dilute  the 
sugar  with  a  little  water  and  the  liquid. 
It  must  not  be  too  thin,  or  it  will  run. 
nor  too  thick,  or  it  cannot  be  poured 
easily,  but  a  nice  rather  stiff  paste.  Set 
the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  being  careful 
to  select  a  saucepan  that  has  a  spout. 
As  soon  as  the  mixture  begins  to  bubble 
up  about  the  sides  of  the  saucepan  stir 
it  once  well  and  take  from  the  fire,  and 
drop  it  in  small  lumps  through  the  spout 
of  the  saucepan  upon  sheets  of  tin,  and 
let  it  stand  two  hours  to  dry.  Then  put 
in  the  stove  a  few  seconds  to  finish  dry- 
ing. As  they  become  hard  and  brilliant, 
take  them  out,  else  they  will  lose  their 
flavor. 

Cream    Pastilles. 

Pastilles  a  la  Creme. 

1  Pound  of  Fine  W^hite  Confectionery 

S'ugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Vinegar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Extract. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Cream    of    Tartar. 

4    Tablespoonfuls    of    Water. 

Moisten  the  sugar  with  the  water  and 
set  to  boil.  Add  vinegar  and  Cream  of 
Tartar.  Let  it  boil  till  brittle.  Then  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  Lemon  Ex- 
tract. Turn  quickly  on  a  wet  slab  or 
buttered  plates.  When  it  begins  to  cool, 
pull  till  very,  very  white,  and  then  cut 
into  small  squares  of  about  a  halt  inch. 


Orang:e   Pastilles. 

Pastilles  a  I'Orange. 

The   Strained  Juice   of  2  Oranges. 
1-2    Ounce    of    Orange    Sugar. 
3  1-2  Ounces  of  Coarse  Sugar. 

To  make  the  orange  sugar,  rub  the  rind 
of  the  oranges  on  the  sugar  and  dry. 
Then  proceed  to  add  the  water  and  three 
and  a  quarter  ounces  of  sugar  and 
flavoring.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  dis- 
solve in  the  pan  take  a  small  wooden 
spoon  and  stir  it  for  a  few  minutes. 
Then  remove  it  from  the  fire,  stirring 
continuously,  and  drop  the  pastilles  upon 
a  sheet  of  paper,  cutting  them  off  in 
drops  about  the  size  of  a  pea  with  a 
curved  piece  of  wire  or  a  hairpin.  When 
they  are  quite  dry  turn  the  paper  upside 
down,  brush  the  reverse  side  with  a  paste 
brush  slightly  moistened  with  water,  and 
shake  off  the  pastilles  with  the  point  of 
a  knife  upon  a  dry  sieve.  Then  move 
the  sieve  to  and  fro  over  a  very  slow  fire, 
so  that  all  the  moisture  may  be  removed 
from  the  drops,  and  keep  them  in  well- 
bottled   jars. 

The  above  recipe  will  serve  as  a  guide 
for  all  Fruit  and  Liquor  or  Essence  Pas- 
tUles. 

Fruit    Pastilles. 
Pastilles  de  Fruits. 

3  1-2  Ounces  of  ^ugar. 
1-2  Ounce  of  Any  Fruit  Juice. 

All  pastilles  with  fruit  juices  may  be 
made  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
Orange  Pastilles.  Use  one-half  an  ounce 
of  juice  and  three  and  a  half  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  add  a  little  more  sugar  if  it 
appears  liquid  after  taking  from  the  fire. 
Ginger  Pastilles. 
Pastilles    de    Gingembre. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Lemon  Juice. 

3  1-2  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

1    Teaspo'onful    of    Essence    of    Jamaica 

Ginger. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
Orange    Pastilles. 

Health    Pastilles. 
Pastilles  pour  la  Sante. 
6  Grains  of  Saffron.     6  Grains   of  Musk. 
6  Grains  of  Ambergris. 
1-2  Dram  of  Basil  Seed. 
1-2  Dram  of  Orange  Peel. 
18  Grains  of  Mace. 
18  Grains   of  Nutmeg. 
1-2  Dfam  of  Storax  Calamite. 
Pound  the  Musk,  Storax  and  Ambergris 
to  a  sugar,  so  as  to  extract  all  the  resin- 
ous   properties.     Make    the    whole    into    a 
paste  with  a  half  pound  of  sugar  and  just 
enough  Gum  Tragacanth  to  give  it  suffi- 
cient   consistency.     Mix    the    paste    thor-' 
ouglily    and   then    cut    into    small    tablets 
that  will  weigh  about  a  dram  each.  Many 
of    the    old    Creoles    take    these    pastilles 
three  or  four  times  a  day,  as  they  facili- 
tate digestion  and  create  an  excellent  ap- 
petite.    They   are   also   excellent   for   per- 
sons suffering  from  debility. 
Lemon    Pastilles. 
Pastilles  au  Citron. 
1-2  Ounce  of  Water. 
3  1-2  Ounces  of  Sugar. 
1-2  Ounce  of  Lemon  Juice. 
Proceed    in    the    same    manner    as    i')r 
Orange  Pastilles. 

Liqueur  Pastilles, 

Pastilles    a    la    Liqueur. 

A    Small    W^ineglassful    of    Any    Kind    of 


250 


Cordial  or  Liqueur. 

3  1-2  Ounces  of  Coarse  Sifted  Sugar. 

Cocaineal  or  Carmine  to  Color,  if  Desired. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
Orange  Pastilles. 

Pastilles    to  Believe    Tlilrst. 

Pastilles  pour  la  Soif. 

8  Grains  of  Tartaric  Acid. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

20  Drops  of  Lemon  Essence. 

Sufficient    Gum    Tragacanth    to    Make    a 

Paste. 

Take  eight  grains  of  Tartaric  Acid,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  twenty  drops  of  i.iemon 
Essence,  and  make  a  paste  with  all,  add- 
ing a  sufficient  quantity  of  mucilage  or 
Gum  Tragacanth  to  make  a  paste.  Cut 
out  into  tablets  and  dry  in  the  open  air. 
These  tablets  are  excellent  In  hot  sum- 
mer months. 

Bose  Pastilles. 

Pasitilles  a  la  Rose. 

1  Ounce  of  Water. 

3  1-2  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

4  Drops  of  Essence  of  Roses. 

3  Drops  of  Cochineal. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
Orange  Pastilles. 

Marshmallow    Drops. 

Tablets  de   Guimauve. 

1-2  Pound  of  White  Gum  Arabic. 

1   Pint   of   Water. 

The  Whites  of  4  Eggs. 

1   Teaspoonful  of  Extract  of  Vanilla. 

DissO'lve  the  Gum  Arabic  in  one  pint 
of  water  and  strain,  and  add  one-half 
pound  of  the  finest  white  sugar,  and 
place  over  the  fire,  stirring  constantly 
all  the  time  until  the  syrup  is  dissolved. 
Then  gradually  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  in  the 
mixture  until  it  becomes  thin  and  does 
not  adhere  to  the  fingers.  Then  flavor 
with  the  Vanilla  Extract,  and  drop  in 
tablets  of  about  the  size  of  a 
B-cent  piece  upon  a  sheet  dusted 
with      powdered      starch.  Make      the 

shape  of  the  tablets  slightly  convex, 
and  in  two  hours  remove  from  the  pa- 
pers, dry  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  stove 
and  put  away  for  use. 

Peppermint   Drops. 

Pastilles  a  la  Menthe. 
1  Cupful  of  Sugar. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Essence    of    Pepper- 
mint. 
A  Pinch   of  Cream   of  Tartar. 
Crush  the  sugar  very  fine,  and  boil  for 
five   minutes    with    water    just    sufficient 
to    moisten.     Then    take    from    the    fire, 
and  add  the  Cream  of  Tartar,  and  after 
mixing  well  add  the  Essence  of  Pepper- 
mint.    Beat  briskly  until  the  mixture  be- 
gins to  whiten  well,  and  then  drop  upon 
white  paper  and  dry  in  the  open  air.    If 
It  sugars  before  all  is  dropped  add  a  little 
water  and  boil  again  for  two  minutes. 
NOUGAT. 
Nougat. 
10  Ounces  of  Sifted  Sugar. 
1  Pound  of  Shredded  Almonds,  Dried. 
A  Few  Drops  of  Essence  of  Vanilla. 
Put  the  almonds  on  a  baking  sheet  or 
plate   at   the    entrance    cf   the    oven.     Let 
them  heat  through  and  through.     In  the 
meanwhile    put    the    sugar    In    a    pan    or 
porcelain-lined    saucepan,    and    set    on    a 
moderate     stove.     Keep    stirring    with    a 
wooden    spoon    until    it    begins    to    melt. 
Then    quicken   the   stirring,    and   as   soon 


as  the  sugar  begins  to  form  upon  the  sur- 
face In  small  white  bubbles,  like  pearls, 
immediately  throw  in  the  almonds.  Stir 
all  gently  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and 
then  pour  out  on  a  wet  marble  slab,  and 
flatten  to  one-sixth  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness. As  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken, 
cut  into  pieces  of  about  three  inches  long 
and  two  wide,  or,  better  still,  if  you  have 
fancy  molds,  line  them  thinly  with  the 
Nougat,  having  previously  slightly  but- 
tered them  on  the  inside.  Cut  the  edges 
of  the  Nougat  even  and  level  before  it 
becomes  cold,  for  then  it  is  brittle,  and 
breaks  easily. 

A  very  charming  and  elegant  Creole 
dessert  is  to  take  a  dozen  or  so  of  the 
Nougats,  form  into  small  baskets  with  an 
ornamental  Caramel  handle,  fill  the  lit- 
tle basket  with  whipped  cream  and  one 
or  two  strawberries  on  to^.     Serve  cold. 

Again,  the  young  Creole  girls  have  a 
pretty  way  at  Christmas  and  New  Tears 
of  making  dainty  boxes  of  Nougat  and 
sending  them  to  their  friends,  lining  the 
boxes  about  the  edges  with  fresh  leaves 
and  rosebuds  or  violets,  or  simply  tying 
them  in  white  tissue  .paper  with  pink  or 
baby  blue  ribbon. 

Parisian   Nong^ats. 

Nougats  a   la  Parisienne. 

8  Ounces  of  Scalded  or  Split  Pistachio 

Kernels. 

6  OiTnces  of  S'ugar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla. 

A  Few  Drops  of  Prepared  Cochineal. 

Boil  the  sugar  till  brittle,  and  then  adu 
the  Pistachio  Kernels  or  Peanuts  and  the 
Cochineal.  Add  the  flavoring  and  mix 
gently.  Then  pour  the  Nougat  out  on  a 
marble  slab,  slightly  buttered.  Flatten 
out  the  Nougat  by  means  of  a  hard  lemon 
slightly  rubbed  with  butter  to  prevent 
sticking.  Roll  to  about  one-sixth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  and  before  it  cools 
sprinkle  all  over  with  small  bits  of  gran- 
ulated sugar,  free  from  dust,  and  seeded 
raisins  or  cleaned  currants.  Press  these 
lightly  in  with  the  fingers,  and  then  di- 
vide the  sheets  of  Nougat  while  hot  into 
small  diamond  shapes  about  two  and  a 
half  inches  Ic'ng  and  one  in  width.  This 
is  a  very  graceful  form  of  dessert,  as 
well  as  an  inexpensive  and  elegant  offer- 
ing to  friends  at  the  holiday  season. 

DBAGEES. 

Almonds  enter  very  largely  into  the 
composition  of  Dragees,  as  also  Gum 
Arabic.  Dissolve  the  Gum  Arabic  in  a 
saucepan  with  enough  water  to  color  it, 
and  then  set  the  saucepan  o^'e^  a  mod- 
erate fire.  Stir  in  the  mixture  of  candy 
a  drop  preparation,  whether  of  Vanilla, 
Peppermint,  Lemon,  etc.,  and  then  mix 
thoroughly  till  the  solution  is  complete. 
Strain  through  a  sieve,  and  then,  with 
a  wire  shaped  like  a  hairpin,  cut  the 
candy  preparation  into  the  tiniest  pieces 
of  various  sizes  and  shapes,  and  pour  on 
a  marble  slab  which  has  been  oiled  with 
butter  or  wet,  to  cool,  and  after  an  hour 
or  so  set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 
In  case  they  are  not  beautifully  polished, 
give  them  another  light  coating  with  the 
solution  of  Gum  Arabic.  The  next  dav 
give  them  a  finer  polish  by  putting  them 
Into  a  basin  with  a  little  solution  of 
sugar  and  rose  water  and  a  little  starch, 
allowing  one  part  of  starch  to  six  of 
sugar.  Swing  the  basin  back  and  for- 
wara  over  a  very  moderate  fire,  and 
continue  until  the  Dragees  are  quite  dry. 

In  making  the  Dragees  use  the  propor- 
tions given  for  Pastilles. 


251 


Snffar   Plums. 

Des   Dragees   Sucrees. 

2   Pounds    of   Best   Confectionery    Sugar. 

Sufficient   Water   to   Dissolve. 

1  Pound  of  Any  Fruit. 

Sugar  Plums,  or  crystallized  fruits,  are 
among  the  daintiest  preparations  of  the 
Creole  cuisine.  They  are  the  real  "Bon- 
bons" so  highly  prized  hy  the  Creole 
girls. 

To  crystallize  fruits  or  candies  in  small 
quantities,  take  two  pounds  of  the  best 
sugar,  and  add  sufficient  water  to  dis- 
solve It  or  to  start  it  boiling.  Let  it  boll 
to  a  syrup.  Place  the  fruit  to  be  crys- 
tallized in  a  pan,  and  pour  over  the 
syrup.  Turn  the  fruit  lightly  by  shaking 
the  pan  till  every  side  is  coated,  and  set 
to  cool.  When  cool,  drain  off  the  syrup 
ana  set  the  pans  on  their  sides,  so  that 
remaining  particles  may  be  drained  off, 
and  every  side  be  coated  with  the  crys- 
tallized mixture.  It  is  always  best  to 
to  pour  the  syrup  over  the  fruit  while  11 
is  warm,  as  it  takes  a  firmer  hold  and 
makes  a  brighter  crystal,  but  it  will  not 
hurt  the  fruit  if  the  crystal  warms  them 
enough  to  make  them  very  soft,  as  they 
will  be  all  right  when  the  syrup  and 
fruits  cool.  A  small  batch  of  crystallized 
fruit  may  be  prepared  at  noon,  and  be 
ready  for  a  6  o'clock  dining. 

Fruits  and  almond  paste  bonbons 
should  always  be  softened  by  the  hot 
syrup,  and  it  Is  always  best  to  prepare 
the  fruits  two  days  in  advance  when  they 
will  be  sufficiently  soft  for  a  light  crystal 
to  form  on  them. , 

Chocolate  and  other  bonbons  may  be 
crystallized  in  the  same  way. 

Crystallized   Oranges. 

Oranges    Cristallisees.  ^ 

6  Oranges. 
2  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
Sufficient  Water  to  Dissolve. 
Crystallize    oranges    in    quarters,    keep- 
ing    the     skins     from     being     punctured. 
Cherries,  Strawberries   and   other  berries 
are  crystallized  whole.  Peaches  and  Apri- 
cots in  halves,  and  so  on. 

Crystallized  Orangre  Blossoms. 
Fleurs  d'Oranger  Cristallisees. 
Pick  the  petals  one  by  one  from  the 
flowers,  and  put  them  into  water.  Drain 
this  off,  and  then  squeeze  the  flowers 
with  your  hands  to  bruise  them,  and 
drain  on  a  sieve.  Make  a  fine  syrup, 
equal  in  bulk  to  the  flowers,  clarify  it 
and  add  the  flowers.  Let  the  syrup  boil 
up  about  seven  times.  Then  remove  it 
from  the  fire  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
sugar  forms  a  coating  all  around  the 
petals.  Then  drain  them,  separate  them 
on  a  paper  for  an  hour  or  so,  till  perfect- 
ly dry,  and  then  put  in  boxes  lined  with 
white  paper,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

Crystallized    Violets. 
Violettes    Cristallisees. 
1    Pound    of    Violet    Petals,     ITreshly 
Gathered. 
1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
for  Orange  Blossoms,  only  do  not  squeeze 
the     petals     in    your    hands.     These    are 
among  tlie   daintiest   of   confections,   and 
■rtrhile    they    cost    very    high    when    pur- 
chased,  they   may   be   easily   prepared   at 
home. 

Crystallized    Rose    Petals. 

Feuilles  de  Roses  Cristallisees. 

Pound  of  Rose  Petals. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 


Select  beautiful  red  or  pink  rose  petals 
that  have  been  freshly  gathered,  and  pro- 
ceed in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  for 
Crystallized  Violets. 

Crystallized   Watermelon. 

Melon    d'Eau    Cristallise. 

Take  the  bright  red  heart  of  the  water- 
melon. Cut  into  dainty  and  fanciful 
forms,  and  place  in  a  dish  in  the  sun 
to  dry.  Make  a  syrup  as  directed  above 
tor  Crystallized  Fruits  and  with  the  point 
of  a  long  hatpin  or  hairpin  immerse  the 
watermelon  in  it.  Hang  to  dry  from 
these  points  and  you  will  have  a  beauti- 
ful crystallized  fruit,  the  dainty  pink  and 
red  of  the  melon  showing  through  the 
transparent  crystal  icing.  This  is  a  beau- 
tiful confection  for  "red  teas,"  "pink  din- 
ners," etc.,  where  red  or  pink  predomi- 
nates in  the  decorations. 

liiquenr  Bonbons. 

Bonbons  a  la  Liqueur. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

Essence  or  Liquor  to  Taste. 

Liqueur  Bonbons  are  made  of  Boiled 
Sugar,  flavored  with  some  kind  of 
liqueur.  They  are  also  flavored  with  the 
juice  of  fruits.  Boil  the  sugar.  Then  ra- 
move  the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  and 
immerse  it  in  a  pan  containing  cold  wa- 
ter, so  that  the  sugar  may  cool  quickly. 
Place  a  lid  over  the  pan,  to  prevent  the 
sugar  forming  a  crust  on  top  by  com' 
tact  with  the  air.  Then  roll  the  sugar 
into  balls  or  pellets,  flatten  out  and  work 
the  flavoring,  whether  of  any  kind  of 
liqueur,  fruit  or  essence,  or  Essence  of 
Coffee,  into  them.  Then  set  them  in  a 
box  or  mold  and  thinly  cover  their  sur- 
face with  a  little  starch  powder  to  pre- 
vent forming  lumps,  and  dry  in  a  moder- 
ately warm  closet  for  about  fifteen  hours. 
As  you  remove  the  bonbons  place  them 
on  a  dry  sieve  and  brush  off  any  remains 
of  starch  with  a  long-haired  soft  brush, 
for  if  any  powder  adheres  it  spoils  the 
beauty  of  the  bonbons. 

Cream   Bonbons. 
Bonbons   a,   la   Creme. 
Bonbons  a  la  Creme  are  famous  Creole 
holiday  candies.     There  is  scarcely  a  Cre- 
ole girl  who  does  not  pride  herself  upon 
her  ability  to  make  these  dainty  luxuries. 
Cream   Bonbons. 
Bonbons   a   la   Creme. 
2    Pounds     of    the    Finest    White    Icing 
Sugar. 
2   Ounces   of   Gum   Arabic. 
The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 
1  Gill  of  Any  Essence  Desired. 
These    delicious    bonbons    are    prepared 
by  soaking  two  ounces  of  the  finest  Gum 
Arabic  in   a   gill   of  hot  water,  and  then 
Using    two    pounds    of    the    finest    icing 
sugar,   the   whites   of  2   eggs,  and   a   few 
drops  of  essence,  and  any  cream,  whether 
of     Chocolate,     Coffee,     Cognac,     Orange 
Flower,   Maraschino   or  Lemon,  which  it 
is  desired  to  use.     The  soaked  gum  mufit 
be    strained    through    a    piece    of    muslin 
bag  Into  a  bowl,  and  the  essence   added 
to  it,  and  then  it  must  be  filled  in  wi'h 
as  much  icing  as  it  will  hold,  till  it  form.? 
a  stiff  yet  elastic  body.    Then  fill  a  bis- 
cuit  forcer  with  the  vanilla  praparation 
mentioned    above,    and    push    it    throng's 
upon  a  sheet  of  paper,  well  dredeed  witft 
sugar.     As      the      contents,      are      foPced 
through,  with  a  small  knife,   cut  off  the 
cream,    as    it   is    pressed    out,    into    pieces 


252 


of  about  the  size  of  a  filbert.  Place  them 
in  the  baking  pan  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes,  merely  to  dry  their  surfaces,  and 
then  dip  these  white  balls  into  the  choco- 
late iciag,  holding  one  at  a  time  on  the 
tip  of  the  fork,  so  as  to  be  able  to  turn  it 
all  arcund,  and  ice  each  part.  Then  m-t 
on  a  wire  tray,  set  to  dry  in  the  oven 
for  about  ten  minutes. 

Chocolate     Cream     Bonbons. 
Bonbons  a  la   Cieme   de   Chocolat. 

2  Pounds  of  Finest  White  Icing  Sugar. 

2  Ounces  of  Gum  Arabic. 

The  A^Tiites  of  2  Eggs. 

4  Ounces  of  French  Chocolate. 

Soak  two  ounces  of  the  finest  Gum 
Arabic  in  a  gill  of  hot  water,  and  then 
add  two  pounds  of  the  finest  icing  sugar, 
the  whites  of  two  eggs.  The  soaked  gum 
must  be  strained  through  a  piece  of  mus- 
lin bag  into  a  bowl,  and  the  essence  add- 
ed to  it,  and  then  it  must  be  filled  in 
with  as  much  icing  as  it  will  hold,  till 
it  forms  a  stiff,  elastic  body.  If  it  is  de- 
sired to  make  Chocolate  Creams,  dis- 
solve four  ounces  of  French  Chocolate 
with  about  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  and 
incorporate  this  with  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  of  Royal  Icing.  (See  recipe.)  Then 
fill  a  biscuit  forcer  with  the  vanilla  prep- 
aration mentioned  above  and  push  it 
through  upon  a  sheet  of  paper,  well 
dredged  with  sugar.  As  the  contents  are 
forced  through,  with  a  small  knife  cut 
off  the  cream,  as  it  is  pressed  out  into 
pieces  of  about  the  size  of  a  filbert. 
Place  them  in  the  baking  pan  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes,  merely  to  dry  their 
surfaces,  and  then  dip  these  white  balls 
into  the  Chocolate  Icing,  holding  one  at 
a  time  on  the  tip  of  the  fork,  so  as  to  be 
able  to  turn  it  all  around,  and  ice  each 
part.  Then  put  on  a  wire  tray,  set  to  dry 
in  the  oven  for  about  ten  minutes. 

Coffee    and    Cognac    Cream    Bonbons. 

Bonbons  a  la  Creme  de  Cafe  et  Cognac. 

2    Pounds    of    Finest    White    Icing   Sugar. 

2  Pounds  of  Gum  Arabic. 

2  Ounces  of  Essence  of  Mocha  Coffee. 

1-2  Gill  of  Fine  Old  Cognac. 
Coffee  and  Cognac  Cream  Bonbons  are 
made  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  the 
above,  only  instead  of  the  Chocolate  a 
half  gill  of  fine  old  Cognac  and  two 
ounces  of  the  essence  of  Mocha  Coffee 
are  used.  Then  gum.  Brandy  and  icing 
sugar  are  worked  into  a  paste  and  then 
covered,  as  ii.  Chocoiate  Creams,  with 
the  Royal  Icing,  flavored  with  Essence 
of    Coffee. 

Cherry     and     Noyeau     Cream     Bonbons. 

Bonbons    a    la    Creme    de    Noyau    et    de 

Cerises. 

2  Ounces  of  Soaked  Gum  Arabic. 

2  Pounds   of  Sugar. 

1  Gill  of  Cherry  Juice. 

1-2  Gill  of  Noyeau. 

The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

Work   the   gum,   Noyeau    and    sugar    to 

an  elastic  paste,  and^use  the  cherry  juice 

and  whites  of  the  eggs  and  some  of  the 

sugar  for  the  Royal  Icing.     Then  proceed 

as  in  Chocolate  Cream  Bonbons,  the  white 

Noyeau    Cream    forming    the    inside    and 

the  cherry-colored  icing  the  outside. 

Lemon    and   Maraschino    Cream   Bonbons. 

Bonbons    a    la    Creme    de    Citron    et    de 

Maraschino. 

2  Ounces  of  Soaked  Gum  Arabic. 

1  Ounce  of  Lemon  Sugar. 

1-2  Gill  of  Maraschino. 

Use   the   same   amount   of  soaked    Gum 


Arabic,  icing  sugar,  whites  of  eggs  and 
one  ounce  of  lemon  sugar,  made  by  rasp- 
ing the  lemon  on  the  sugar,  and  half  a 
gill  of  Maraschino. 

Follow  the  same  directions  as  for 
Orange  Bonbons,  the  Maraschino  term- 
ing the  cream  for  the  inside,  and  the 
lemon   sugar  for  the  outside. 

Orang:e    Cream    Bonbons. 
Bonbons  a  la  Creme  d'Orange. 

1  Ounce  of  Orange  Sugar. 
The  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

1-3  Gill  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 
For  Orange  Flower  Bonbons  work  the 
orange  sugar,  using  one  ounce,  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  make  a  Royal 
Icing.  (See  recipe.)  Then  work  the  gum. 
Orange  Flower  Water,  using  half  a  g'll. 
and  the  icing  sugar  into  a  stiff  pastC; 
and  proceed  as  in  Chocolate  Creams, 
finally  covering  with  the  Royal  Icin^", 
the  white  cream  forming  the  interior  of 
the  Bonbons  and  the  orange  or  ^ellow 
the   outside. 

Cream    Peanuts. 
Pistaches    a.    la    Creme. 

1  Pound  of  Fine   White  Sugar. 

1  Teacupful  of   Water. 

1    Tablespoonful    of    Extract    of   Vanilla. 

1-2  Pound  of  Peanuts,  STielled. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  till  it  comes 
to  a  thread.  Flavor  highly  with  extract 
of  vanilla.  Then  take  from  the  fire  and 
stir  until  it  is  a  creamy  white.  Throw  in 
the  peanuts.  Drop  in  a  little  white  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Then  put  them  on  a  table 
on  a  piece  of  white  paper,  and  shake  well 
till  each  stands  apart.  Roll  again  lighi- 
ly  in  white  powdered  or  granulated 
sugar,  and  let  them  dry. 

LOZENGES. 

Des   Pastilles. 

1  1-2  Pounds  of  Finest  W^hite  Icing  Sugar. 
2    Ounces   of   Any   Essence   Preferred. 

1  Ounce  of  Gum  Tragacanth. 

2  Ounces  of  Tepid  Water. 

In  making  lozenges  take  one  ounce 
of  Gum  Dragon  or  Gum  Tragacanth,  and 
soak  it  in  two  ounces  of  tepid  water  for 
about  six  hours.  Then  squeeze  and 
wring  out  through  a  cloth,  and  add  about 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  icing  sugar 
and  the  desired  essence  and  flavor  the 
lozenges  in  the  proportion  of  about  two 
ounces  of  essence  to  the  quantities  abova 
given.  If  peppermint  flavor  is  desired, 
use  one  teaspoonful.  Then  work  this 
prepared  gum  on  a  marble  slab,  as  you 
would  knead  dough,  until  It  is  firm  an.l 
white,  yet  elastic.  Gradually  work  in  the 
sugar  and  add  the  essence  and  work  till 
smooth  and  very  elastic.  Then  roll  the 
paste  out  with  fine  sugar  dredged  on  the 
slab,  and  cut  into  10-cent  size  pieces,  and 
also  into  diamond  shapes.  Place  them 
in  rows  upon  sugar-powdered  baking 
sheets  and  dry  in  the  oven.  They  must 
be  ivept  in  a  well-stopped  jar  in  a  cool 
place.  Orange,  Clove,  Lemon  and  Cinna- 
mon Pastilles  are  all  made  in  the  same 
way  Every  mother  can  thus  make  the 
candy  that  her  children  use,  and  know 
that  there  will  he  no  deleterious  effects. 

Coug^h    Lozenges. 
Pastilles  pour  la  Toux. 
This  book  would  not  be  complete  with- 
out giving  this  famous  old  Creole  Cough 
Lozenge.     Take 

1   Ounce  of  Gum  Dragon, 
2  Ounces  of  Orange  Flower   Water. 

2  Pounds  of  Fine  Sugar  Icing. 


253 


50  Drops  of  Paregoric. 

20  Drops  of  Ipecacuanha. 

1 1-2  Ounces  Syrup  of  Squills. 

Work  the  gum  on  the  slab  with  about 
one-third  of  the  sugar,  and  then  work  in 
gradually  the  syrup  of  squills.  After 
working  well  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar 
and  again  work.  Lastly  add  the  Para- 
goric  and  the  Ipecacuanha.  Then  pro- 
ceed to  finish  these  old-fashioned  loz- 
enges in  the  manner  directed  in  the  gen- 
eral recipe  given. 

SufJTar    as    Employed    in    Candy    Alakinsr. 

Du   Sucre. 

As  mentioned  above,  always  select  the 
best  granulated  loaf  sugar  for  making 
candies.  Beware  of  glucose.  As  a  gen  ■ 
eral  rule,  loaf  sugar  will  do  for  all  candy 
making  without  clarification.  Brown  or 
yellow  sugars  are  used  fc-r  Caramels, 
dark  Pralines  and  pulled  Molasses  Candy 
generally. 

Sugar  is  boiled  more  or  less,  accordin;? 
to  the  kind  of  candies  one  wishes  to 
make.  It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  ui  - 
derstand  the  proper  degree  of  boiling  if 
you  wish  to  be  successful  in  your  efforts 
in  making  fine  candies  at  home.  The  de- 
grees are,  respectively,  "The  Small 
Thread,"  "The  Large  Thread,"  "Blow, ' 
"Soft  Ball,"  "Hard  Ball,"  "Crack  anl 
Caramel.'  The  following  carefully  pre- 
.parer  recipes  will  prove  invaluable  to  the 
amateur: 

Sugar  Boiling, 

Le  Cuisson  du  Sucre. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 

To  every  three  pounds  of  sugar  allow 
a  pint  of  water.  Put  to  tioil  on  a  brisk 
fire,  and  skim  carefully  and  wash  on  the 
sides  with  a  hair  brush  dipped  in  water, 
to  prevent  the  sugar  from  graining. 

Small  Thread. 

Le  Petit  Lisse. 

3  PC'unds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 

Dip  the  forefinger  into  iced  water,  and 
then  into  the  boiling  sugar,  and  instantly 
again  into  the  iced  water,  to  prevent 
burning  the  finger.  Then  pinch  between 
the  index  finger  and  thumb.  If  a  small 
thread  forms,  which  breaks  when  the  at- 
tempt is  made  to  pull  apart  through  the 
fingers,  the  proper  degree  is  reached. 

Large   Thread. 

Le  Grand  Lisse. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 

Boil  the  sugar  a  little  longer,  and  then 
try  as  before;  if  a  thread  forms  that 
can  be  pulled  two  inches  without  break- 
ing, this  degree  is  reached.  This  is  the 
best  degree  for  preserves,  etc. 

The   Pearl. 

Le   Grande   et  la  Petite  Perle. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 
Let  the  sugar  boil  a  little  longer.  If 
you  find  that  on  drawing  it  out  to  a 
thread  it  snaps  quickly,  and  also  that 
while  boiling  the  sugar  presents  the 
form  of  large  pearls  or  globules  on  its 
surface,  it  will  then  have  reached  the 
small  pearl  degree.  When  the  pearls 
become  closely  connected  on  the  surface 
of  the  sugar,  it  will  have  reached  the 
large  pearl  degree. 


The    Blow. 

Le  Souffle. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 

Continue  boilling,  and  after  a  few  min- 
utes dip  the  skimmer  in  the  boiling 
sugar.  Strike  it  on  the  edge  of  the 
boiler.  Blow  through  the  holes,  and  you 
will  find  that  if  the  sugar  is  of  the  right 
degree,  it  will  form  intc  small  globules  or 
air  bubbles  on  the  other  side.  This  is 
the  best  degre  for  creams,  and  also  gives 
a  rich  flavor  to  Preserves. 

The   Feather. 

La  Plume. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 

Boil  up  the  sugar  a  little  longer,  dip 
the  skimmer  in  it,  and  on  finding  that  it 
shivers  into  a  thready  fringe  from  the 
edge,  it  will  have  reached  the  degree 
called  the  "Feather."  If  large  and  ele- 
vated, the  degree  is  the  "Large  Feather" 
or  "La  Grande  Plume."  In  a  few  min- 
utes more  they  become  small  and  flaky, 
and  the  next  degree,  the  "Small  Feather," 
or  "La  Petite  Plume,"  is  reached. 

The   Soft  Ball. 

Le  Petit  Boulet. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 

Keep  the  sugar  boiling.  Dip  the  finger 
into  iced  water  and  then  into  the  boiling 
sugar  and  immediately  into  the  water 
again.  If  the  sugar  has  enough  consis- 
tency to  form  a  small  ball  when  rolled 
between  the  finger  and  the  thumb,  the 
degree  is  reached. 

The  Hard  BaU. 

Le  Grand  Boulet. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 

Continue  the  test,  and  if  a  firmer  ball 
is  formed,  this  degree  is  reached. 

The   Crack  or  Snap. 

Le  Casse. 

3  Pounds  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

Continue  boiling,  and  dip  the  finger 
after  a  few  moments  in  iced  water  and 
then  in  the  boiling  sugar,  and  instantly 
in  the  water  again.  The  proper  degree 
is  reached  when  the  sugar  is  placed  be- 
tween the  fingers,  and  will  not  stick,  or 
when  distended  it  snaps  hard  and  dry. 
The  first  degree  is  called  "Little  Crack," 
or  "Le  Petit  Cas.'re,"  and  the  second  is 
called  "The  Big  Crack,"  or  "Le  Grand 
Casse."  This  is  a  good  degree  for  Fruits 
Glace,  etc. 

Caramel. 

Caramel. 

3  Pounds  of  S'ugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 
Continue  boiling  till  the  sugar  reaches 
a  light  brown  color.     Then  take  the  ves- 
sel off  immediately,  or  it^ill  burn.     Any 
degree  beyond  this  renders  the  sugar  cal 
cined    and    barely    fit    for    cooking    pur- 
poses.    On    taking    the    vessel    from    the 
fire,   insert   the   bottom   in    cold   water    to 
prevent  the  sugar  from  burning. 
To   Clarify   Sugar. 
Du  Sucre  Clarifie. 
8  Pounds  of  Sugar. 
1  Pint  of  Water. 
The   White   of  1   Egg. 


254 


In  clarifying  sugar  for  Candles,  take 
the  whole  white  of  an  egg  for  brown 
sugar  and  half  the  white  for  refined 
sugar.  Beat  to  a  froth  in  a  dish  with 
about  a  cupful  of  water,  adding  It  by 
degrees.  Then  put  about  eight  pounds 
of  sugar  into  a  kettle,  and  dilute  It  with 
the  half  of  the  beaten  egg.  Let  it  be- 
come very  thick.  Set  it  over  the  fire, 
and  let  it  boil  up  twice  before  you  skim 
it.  Then  skim  and  continue  to  add  the 
egg  by  degrees,  until  the  scum  Is  per- 
fectly white.  Take  the  skimmer  from 
the  sugar,  add  another  cup  of  cold  wa- 
ter, to  carry  off  any  remaining  scum, 
take  it  from  the  fire  and  strain.  The 
sugar  is  then  kept  for  use. 

COIiOBING   FOK   CANDIES. 

Candies  may  be  colored  beautifully 
with  such  harmless  preparations  as 
Cochineal,   Carmine    (when   properly   pre- 

gared).  Spinach,  Indigo,  Saffron  or  Burnt 
ugar. 

Cochineal. 

Cochenille. 

1  Pound   of  Powdered  Cochineal. 

1   Ounce   of  Burnt  Alum. 
2  Ounces   of   Salts   of   Tartar. 

2  Ounces    of    Cream    of    Tartar. 

12  Ounces  of  Sugar. 
2  Quarts  of  Water. 

Cochineal  is  an  extremely  harmless  col- 
oring matter,  which  is  used  extensively 
by  the  Creoles.  It  is  made  from  the  Cn- 
cus  Cacti,  an  insect  indigenous  to  Mex- 
ico, and  which  is  found  on  several  spe- 
cies of  fig  trees.  The  color  Is  crimson, 
and  when  diluted  in  water  it  has  a 
deep  reddish-brown  color,  and  makes 
a  beautiful  coloring  for  Pralines  and 
other  preparations  which  demand  it. 
ii  is  sold  by  confectioners  and 
druggists  in  preparations  for  the  pur- 
pose of  coloring  candies,  liqueurs  and 
bonbons. 

Take  one  ounce  of  powdered  Cochineal, 
one  ounce  of  salts  of  tartar,  one 
ounce  of  burnt  alum,  two  ounces  of 
Cream  of  Tartar,  twelve  ounces  of  sugar, 
and  two  quarts  of  soft  water.  Boil  the 
water  in  a  porcelain-lined  vessel,  and 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  and  then  strain  at  once  througrh 
a  sieve  or  cloth,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Carmine. 

Carmin. 

2  Gallons  of  "Water. 

3  Drams  of  Powdered  Alum. 

2   Drams   of   Bismuth. 

2  Drams  of  Nitro-Muriate  of  Tin. 

2   Drams    of  Nitric  Acid. 

Carmine  is  made  by  pulverizing  Cochi- 
neal in  a  stone  mortar  and  putting  it  into 
water  at  nearly  a  boiling  point.  One 
ounce  of  Brazil  wood,  obtained  from  the 
druggist,  and  one  ounce  of  powdered 
Cochineal  are  put  into  separate  vessels 
with  one  quart  of  TVater  each.  The 
Cochineal  is  always  put  in  the  water  in 
a  linen  bag. 

To  make  half  a  pound  of  the  Carmine 
used  so  extensively  In  Creole  homes, 
simply  pound  the  Cochineal  in  a  mor- 
tar, add  two  gallons  of  water,  and  let 
It  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Then 
add  about  three  drams  of  nitro-muriate 
of  tin,  made  by  taking  two  drams  of 
nitric  acid,  two  drams  of  muriatic  acid 
and  one  dram  of  bismuth,  and  dissolving 
under  p  gentle  heat.  Continue  boillnpr 
the    Cochineal    ten    minutes    longer,    an^l 


strain  the  mixture  through  a  fine  cloth, 
and  let  it  stand  for  eighteen  hours.  Pour 
off  the  water,  and  add  the  solution  of 
tin,  in  three  pints  of  water,  and  let  It 
stand  for  five  days  longer,  changing  the 
water  every  twenty-four  hours.  When 
free  from  any  taste  or  smell  the  Carmine 
uas  been  sufficiently  washed,  and  h 
ready  for  use.  Put  into  china  saucers 
and  dry  in  the  stove. 

It  is  exceedingly  dangerous  to  pur- 
chase Carmine,  and  often  it  is  nothing 
more  than  a  red  lead  mixture,  and  pois- 
onous. The  Creoles  always  make  their 
own  preparations  of  Carmine, 

Green    < Spinach). 

Vert    (Bpinards). 

1  Pound  of  Toung  Spinach. 
A  Few  Grains  of  Powdered  Alum. 

Pound  one  pound  of  young  Spinach 
to  a  pulp,  and  then  carefully  squeeze  all 
the  juice  out  of  it.  Set  to  boil,  and  tie 
moment  it  begins  to  curdle  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  strain  all  the  juice  from  it. 
Then  add  to  the  curd  the  same  weight  In 
sugar,  a  few  grains  of  powdered  alum, 
and  a  little  alcohol,  and  bottle  for  use. 
Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Yellow    (Saffron). 

Jaune    (Saffran). 

3  Ounces  of  Saffron. 

1  Ounce  of  Alum. 

20  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Water. 

Take  three  ounces  of  Saffron,  one 
ounce  of  powdered  alum,  twenty  ounces 
of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  wate**, 
and  boil  all  together.  Strain  and  add 
a  little  alcohol,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Orange. 

Orange. 

1   Ounce   of  Yellow    (Saffron). 
1  Ounce  of  Cochineal. 

This  color  is  obtained  by  mixing  equal 
quantities  of  yellow  and  red  (0>chineal). 

Blue. 

Bleu. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of   Water. 

1   Ounce  of  Indigo. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Alcohol. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
water  and  boil  to  a  syrup.  Add  ona 
ounce  of  Indigo,  powdered  very  fine. 
Let  all  boil.  Then  add  a  little  alcohol, 
and   strain   and   bottle. 

Burnt  Sugar. 

Sucre    Brule. 

1  Pound  of  Granulated  Sugar. 
1  Quart  of  W^ater. 

Take  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  dissolved 
and  burnt  black.  Add  one  quart  of  wa- 
ter, and  let  it  boil  until  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Reduce  to  half  the  quantity  and 
strain  and  bottle  for  use.  To  make  col- 
ored sugar,  add  a  little  coloring  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Then  dry  in  an  oven,  and 
keep  in  a  jar. 


255 


Vanilla  Su£:ar. 

Sucre  a.  la  VanlUe. 

2  Pounds  of  Loaf  Sugar. 
3  Vanilla  Beans. 

Take  three  vanilla  beans  and  cut  them 
into  shreds.  Let  them  dry,  and  then 
pound  them  with  about  two  pounds  of 
tine  loaf  sugar.  When  reduced  to  a  very 
fine  powder,  sift,  put  In  a  jar  and  cork 
tight. 


Lemon  Sugar. 

Sucre   au   Citron. 

The  Zest  of  3  Lemons. 
1   Po-und   of   Loaf   Sugar. 

Grate  the  zest  or  outer  rinds  of  the 
lemons  on  pieces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  then 
set  to  dry.  When  dry,  pound  very  fine, 
sift,  and  put  in  a  jar  and  cork  tight. 
Orange  Sugar  is  prepared  in  the  same 
manner. 


CHAPTER  XLVI. 
CANNING    OB   PICKLING. 


Conservation    des    Substances 

The  best  method  of  pickling,  and  the 
surest,  is  to  put  the  substance  to  ba 
pickled  in  a  glass  bottle  or  a  tin  can 
that  has  been  hermetically  sealed,  and 
subject  it  to  a  temperature  ranging  from 
80  to  100  degrees,  in  a  water  bath,  or 
"bain-marie,"  always  taking  the  pre- 
vious precaution  to  eliminate  all  air 
from  the  vessel  before  sealing  it. 

The  great  success  of  canning  and  pre- 
serving is  to  exclude  the  air  and  to  can 
while  hot,  filling  the  vessel  to  the  brim. 
Have  your  jars  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water 
on  the  stove.  Roll  them  in  the  hot  wa- 
ter, and  then  fill  immediately  to  the  top 
with  the  hot  boiling  fruit  or  vegetables. 
Have  the  tops  of  the  jars  ready  and  heat- 
ed, and  seal  quickly,  screwing  down 
every  few  moments  a  little  tighter,  as  the 
ingredients  cool  and  the  glass  conse- 
quently contracts.  Keep  the  jars  in  a 
cool,  dark  place. 

Attention  to  a  few  rules  will  make  it 
possible  for  each  housekeeper,  especially 
the  Louisiana  country  housewife,  to  put 
up  all  her  own  goods,-  whether  of  vege- 
tables or  fruits  or  pickles. 

Canned     Corn. 

r>u  Mais  en  Conserve. 

8  Quarts  of  Corn. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard  to  Each  Quart 

of   Corn. 

Boil  the  com  on  the  cob  until  no  milk 
will  exude  if  the  grains  are  pricked  with 
a  needle.  Then  cut  the  corn  off  the  cou 
and  pack  into  cans  or  stone  jars,  putting 
first  a  layer  of  salt  half  an  inch  deeo 
and  then  a  layer  of  corn  two  inches  deep, 
and  continuing  with  these  alternate  lay- 
ers until  the  jar  is  nearly  filled.  The 
top  layer  must  be  of  salt,  and  about  ao 
Inch  thick.  Pour  over  all  this  melted 
lard  in  proportion  of  about  a  tablespoon- 
ful to  a  quart  at  the  corn.  Set  on  the 
firei  in  a  bain-marie,  and  let  all  the 
bubbles  come  to  the  surface.  Take  off 
stick  a  silver  fork  down  into  the  jar,  to 
see  that  all  bubbles  have  ceased  to  form. 
Seal  hermetically,  and  then  set  in  a  bain- 
marie,  at  a  temperature  |0f  from  80  to 
100  degrees,  and  let  it  cool.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place,  and  use  as  wa-nted. 
Canned  Tomatoes. 
Des  Tomates  en  Conserves. 

8  Dozen  Tomatoes. 
A  Bain-Marie. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  Tomatoes 
to  loosen  the  skins.  Then  skin  the  To- 
matoes, and  brine  to  a  hard  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Then  drain  and  can  as 
quickly  as  possible,  excluding  all  air. 
Set  in  a  bain-marie  to  cool,  and  keep  ii 
a  cool,  dark  place. 

Canned  Mnshrooms. 

Des  Champignons  en  Conserve. 


Alimentaires    et    Vegetales. 

8   Quarts   of   Mushrooms. 

Cook  the  mushrooms  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  salted  water,  drain  lightly 
and  can  them,  excluding  all  air.  Sub- 
mit to  the  "bain-marie,"  letting  them 
cool  gradually.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. 
Canned    Green   Peas. 

Des   Petits   Pols   en   Conserve. 
1   Dozen    Quarts    of   Green   Peas. 

Select  the  youngest  and  most  tender 
peas,  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  let 
them  cook  for  about  thirty  minutes. 
Drain  lightly,  and  can  Immediately,  ex- 
cluding all  air. 

Other  vegetables  may  be  canned  in  al- 
most the  same  identical  manner. 
PICKLES. 
Des    Cornichons. 

Pickles  should  not  be  made  in  vessels 
of  brass,  copper  or  tin,  and  should  al- 
ways be  put  up  in  glass  bottles  or  hard 
stone"ware.  Only  the  best  vinegar  should 
be  used.  All  vinegar  should  be  scalded 
before  using  with  pickles,  otherwise  it 
will  not  keep  well.  This  is  a  fact  that 
must  be  remembered  if  you  wish  tor  suc- 
cess. 

In  sour  pickles  use  only  the  best  cider 
vinegar.  Never  boil  it,  but  simply  bring 
it  to  the  boiling  point,  before  you  pour 
it  over  the  pickles.  Always  add  a  small 
piece  of  alum  to'  Cucumber  or  Gherkin 
Pickles,  if  you  wish  them  to  be  a  beauti- 
ful green  and  crisp. 

Never  use  any  but  a  wooden  spoon  in 
putting  up  pickles,  and  be  careful  in  the 
use  of  spices,  so  that  no  one  flavor  will 
predominate,  but  that  all  will  unite  in 
a  most  agreeable  whole. 

Pickles  must  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dark 
place,  and  always  well  covered  with  vine- 
gar. 

The  jars  should  be  examined  at  fre- 
quent intervals.  If  white  specks  make 
their  appearance  in  the  vinegar,  draw  it 
off,  scald  and  add,  if  the  pickles  are 
sweet,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
a  few  cloves. 

Sweet   Pickles. 

Cornichons  S'ucres. 

100  Small  Cucumbers. 

3  Dozen  Black  Peppers. 

1  Dozen   Allspice. 

1  Dozen   Blades  of  Mace. 

3   Dozen    Cloves. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1   Gallon   of  Boiling  Vinegar. 

Wash  the  Cucumbers,  selectine  nice 
small  ones,  of  about  a  finger  in  length. 
Cover  them  with  a  strong  brine,  suffi- 
ciently strong  to  bear  an  egg.  Put  a 
cover  on  the  jar.  and  let  them  stand  for 
about  three  days.  Then  take  them  out 
and  throw  awav  the  brine,  rejecting  all 
the  pickles  that  have  become  soft  undei 


256 


pressure.  Put  into  a  kettle  c-f  fresh  wa- 
ter, and  add  a  little  powdered  alum,  al- 
lowing about  a  quarter  of  a  tcaspoonful, 
or  a  piece  about  half  the  size  of  a  bird's 
egg,  to  one  gallon  of  liquid.  Put  a  close 
lid  over  all  the  boiler,  and  steam,  without 
letting  them  boil,  for  about  four  or  five 
hours.  To  one  hundred  small  cucumbers 
or  a  gallon,  allow  three  dozen  black  pep- 
pers, one  dozen  blades  of  mace,  three 
dozen  cloves,  one  dozen  allspice,  all 
whole,  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  five 
minutes.  Place  the  pickles  in  clean  jars, 
and  pour  over  the  boiling  vinegar.  These 
pickles  must  then  be  corked  closely. 
Three  days  after  take  or  draw  off  th:<j 
vinegar,  boil  again,  and  again  pour  over 
the  pickles.  Repeat  this  operation  tnree 
times,  at  about  intervals  of  three  or  four 
days.  Then  cover  with  a  stout  cloth, 
cork  with  a  wooden  or  cork  stopper,  and 
In  about  two  months  they  will  be  ready 
for  use.     Examine  from  time  to  time. 

Sour  Pickles. 

Cornichons    au   Vinaigre. 

100  Small    Cucumbers. 
A    Boiling    Brine. 
24    Whole    Spices. 
1  Ounce  of  Mustard  Seed, 
12  Small  Red  Peppers. 
6  Blades  of  Mace. 
8   Cloves.     2    Onions. 
Take   about  100   small   Cucumbers,   and 
place   them    in    a   jar.     Cover   them   with 
boiling  brine  that  will  be  strong  enouga 
to  bear  an  egg.     Let  them  stand  for  sev- 
eral   days.     Then    take    them    out    of   the 
brine,  wipe  them  well,  and  place  them  in 
clean  jars.    Add  two  dozen  whole  spices, 
one     ounce     of    mustard    seed,     and     six 
blades  of  mace,  eight  cloves,  two  chopped 
onions  and  the  red  peppers.     Cover  them 
with   boiling   vinegar   and    cork.     In   sev- 
eral weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

If  you  wish  the  pickles  to  be  very 
green,  put  them  into  cold  vinegar,  and  set 
on  the  stove,  and  let  them  heat  slowly 
over  a  moderate  fire  till  they  are  green; 
or,  after  the  fourth  day  in  which  they 
have  stood  in  the  brine,  pour  this  off 
and  take  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and 
line  the  bottom  with  fig  and  grapevine 
leaves,  put  the  cucumbers  in,  with  a 
small  piece  of  alum,  cover  them  closely 
with  the  vine  leaves,  and  then  pour  cold 
water  sufficient  to  almost  fill  the  kettle. 
Cover  closely  with  an  inverted  pan  or  a 
dish,  and  let  them  steam  slowly  for  four 
or  five  hours,  till  they  are  green.  "When 
a  beautiful  green,  take  out  of  the  kettle, 
drain,  season  as  above,  pour  over  boiling 
vinegar,  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  they 
will  be  ready  to  be  bottled  for  future 
use. 

Home-Made    C how-Chow. 

Varientes    a   la    Moutarde. 

1  Head   of  Cauliflower. 

1-2  Head  of  Cabbage,  Cut  as  for  Slaw. 

1  Quart    of    Tiny    Cucumbers,    the    Very 

Smallest   Kind. 
1   Quart  of   Small   Button   Onions. 

2  or  3  Pods  of  Green   and   Red  Peppers, 

Chopped  Fine. 

1-2  Pound  of  French  Mustard. 

1-2  Teacupful  of  Celery  Seed. 

1  Teacupful  of  Horseradish. 

1  Whole  Garlic,  Mixed  Very  Fine 

1    Pint    of    String    Beans. 

1   Gill   of  Salad  Oil. 

3-4  Gallon  of  Vinegar. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   o-f   IVIustarcl    Seed. 

1  Cupful  of  Brown  SuE^ar. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Tumeric. 

S'hred  the-  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw,  and 

cover  the  bottom  of  a  stone  jar  with  the 


cucumbers  a-nd  the  cabbage.  Then  cover 
with  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  strong 
enough  to  float  an  egg.  Let  them  stand 
for  twenty-four  hours.  At  the^  end  of 
that  time  boil  the  cauliflower,  the  onions 
and  the  beans  in  separate  pots  till  tender. 
Then  drain  off  all  water.  Mix  them  with 
the  cucumbers  and  the  cabbage.  Put  the 
vinegar  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and 
let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  mustard 
seed,  the  celery  seed,  the  grated  horse- 
radish, the  minced  garlic  and  the  pepper 
pods,  cut  fine.  Let  all  boil  for  about 
five  minutes,  and  stir  constantly  till  It 
begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  the  sugar 
and  make  a  paste  of  the  Tumeric,  the 
mustard  and  the  salad  oil,  moistening 
with  a  little  cold  vinegar,  and  pour  into 
the  ^mixture.  Stir  well  and  pour  while 
boiling  hot  over  the  vegetables.  Put  It 
away  In  stone  jars,  and  in  about  ten  day^ 
it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Mixed  Pickles. 

Variantes. 

1  Head  of  Cauliflower. 

1-2  Head  of  Cabbage,  Cut  as  for  Slaw. 

1  Quart    of    Tiny    Cucumbers,    the   Very 

Smallest  Kind. 

1  Quart  of  Small  Button  Onions. 

2  or  3  Pods  of  Green   and  Red  Peppers, 

Chopped  Fine. 

1-2  Pound  of  French  Mustard. 

1-2    Teacupful    of    Celery    Seed. 

1  Teacupful  of  Grated  Horseradish. 

1  Whole  Garlic,  Minced  Very  Pine. 

1  Pint  of  String  Beans. 
1  Gill  of  Salad  Oil. 

3-4    Gallon    of    Vinegar. 

2  Tablespconfuls  of  Mustard  Seed. 

1  Cupful  of  Brown  Sugar. 
1-2  Ounce   of  Tumeric. 

Take  young  cauliflower  heads,  small 
onions,  peppers,  cucumbers  cut  in  dice, 
nasturtiums  and  string  beans,  in  the 
proportions  given  above,  and  boil  till 
tender.  Drain  very  dry,  and  pack  in 
wide-mouthed  bottles.  Boil  in  one  pint 
of  cider  vinegar,  one  tablespoo>uful  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed  and 
spices.  Pour  over  the  pickles,  mix  well, 
and   seal    carefully. 

Pickled   Cauliflow^er. 

Choux-Fleurs     Confits     au     Vinaigre. 

3  Dozen  Cauliflowers. 

To   Each    Quart   of  Vinegar   2  Teaspoon- 

fuls  of  Mustard  and  a  Half  Cup  of 

^^^lite  sugar. 

Boil  the  Cauliflower  for  about  twenty 
minutes  in  salt  and  water;  then  remove 
and  drain,  and  break  carefully,  and  le; 
them  get  cold.  Pack  in  a  jar  and  pour 
oyer  them  hot  Spiced  Vinegar  (see  re- 
cipe), which  you  will  have  strained,  hav- 
ing first  stirred  into  each  quart  of  vine- 
gar two  leaspoonfuls  of  French  mustard 
and  a  half  cup  of  white  sugar.  Cover 
the  Cauliflower  well  with  the  mixture 
and  bottle  tight. 

Green   Pepper  Pickles. 

Piments    Vertz    Confits    au    Vinaigre. 

2  Dozen  Green  Peppers. 
1  Dozen  Red  Peppers. 

1-2    Large   Head   of  Cabbage. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Mustard  Seed. 
1  Teaspc'onful  of  Ground  Cloves. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Ground  Allspice. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of   Salt. 

Cut  the  tops  from  the  peppers  and  re- 
move the  seeds.  Then  put  a  teaspoont'tl 
of  salt  into  each  pepper,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  soak  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Chop  the  cabbage  very  fine,  and  mix 
well     with    the     ground    spices,    mustard 


257 


seed  and  salt.  When  thoroughly  blended 
stuff  the  poppers  with  this  mixture.  Then 
put  on  the  tops,  and  stand  upright  Id 
stone  jars,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 
In  handling  the  peppers  use  a  napkin  or 
gloves,  as  they  will  blister  the  hands. 
Green  Tomato  Pickles. 
Tomates  Verts   Confites   au  Vinaigre. 

1  Peck  of  Green   Tomatoes. 

1  Dozen  Onions.    1  Ounce  of  Cloves. 

1  Ounce  of  Mustard  Seed. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  White  Mustard  See  J. 

1  Cupful  of  Salt. 
1-2    Teaspoonful    of    Red    Pepper,    or   the 
Pods   Cut  Into   Strips. 
1  Ounce  of  Cloves. 
1  Ounce  of  Black  Peppers. 
Slice    the    tomatoes    and    the    onions. 
Then  put  a  layer  of  tomatoes  and  a  layer 
of   onions,    and    sprinkle   with    salt,   and 
continue  till   all   are  used  up.     Let   them 
stand  over  night.    In  the  morning  drain 
off  all  the  liquor  that  has  accumulated, 
and  put  the  vegetables  into  a  porcelain- 
lined  pot  with  all  the  other  ingredients, 
and    cover   with    two    quarts    of   vinegar. 
Let  all  simmer  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  then  put  away  in  stone  jars, 
letting  the  vinegar  cover  the  pickles,  and 
boiling  while  hot.  ' 

This  recipe  is  for  S'our  Green  Tomato 
Pickles.  The  Sweet  Green  Tomato  Pickles 
are  made  by  adding  one  cup  of  sugar  to 
the  above  ingredients. 

Pickled   Mansoes. 
Mangos  Confits   au   Vinaigre. 
24    Pepper     Mangoes     or    Toung    Melon 
Mangoes  or  Muskmelons. 
A  Piece  of  Alum  the  Size  of  a  Pecan. 
1-2  Pound  of  Ginger. 
1-2  Ounce   Bach  of  Black  Pepper,   Mace. 
Allspice,  Tumeric. 
1-4  Pound  of  Garlic. 
1-2   Pint   of   Grated    Horseradish. 
1-2  Pint  Each  of  Black  and  White  Mus- 
tard S'eed. 
1-2  Teacupful  of  the  Best  Olives. 
1-2  Head  of  Fine  Toung  Cabbage. 
4  Green  Tomatoes. 
Take    two    dozen    Pepper    Mangoes    or 
young    Muskmelons    that    are    no    larger 
than    an    orange.     Let   them    lie    for   two 
weeks  in  a  brine  strong  enough  to  float 
an   egg.     Then  soak  them  in  pure  water 
for  two  days,   changing  the  water  every 
day.    Remove  the  seed  by  cutting  a  slic 
down    the    side    of  the    Mangoes,    but    do 
not    take    the    meat    out.     Rinse    in    cold 
water.     Put  a  layer  of  green  grape  leaves 
in  a   kettle,   and   lay   on   this  a  layer  of 
Mangoes,  and  then  a  layer  of  leaves,  and 
so  continue  till  all  are  used  up.     Let  the 
top  layer  be   of   grape   leaves.    Now  add 
a    piece    of    alum    about    the    size    of    a 
pecan,    and    pour   vinegar    over   the   mix  ■ 
ture,  and  let  all  boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.     Then  take  out  the  leaves,  and 
let  the    Mangoes   remain   in   this  vinegar 
for  five  or  six  days.     Prepare  a  stuffing 
of    half    a    pound    of    ginger,    which    has 
been  soaked   in   brine   for  two   days   and 
which  you  will  have  cut  into  small  dice; 
one-half  an  ounce  each  of  black  pepper, 
mace,    allspice,    Tumeric;    one-quarter    of 
a  pound  of  garlic,  which  has  been  soaked 
In  brine  for  twenty-four  hours  and  dried; 
a    half    pint    of    grated    horseradish,    and 
a  half  pint  each  of  black  and  white  mus- 
tard seed.     Bruise  all  the  spices  well  till 
fine,  and  mix  them  with  a  half  teacupful 
of  the  best  olive  oil.     Take  a  half  head 
of    fine    solid    cabbage,    and    chop    fine; 
add  a  half  pint  of  finely-chopped  onions, 
a  few  small  cucumbers,  and  a  few  green 
tomatoes,    which    have    lain    in    a    brine 
overnight.    Drain    all    well    arid    then    se- 


lect any  Imperfectly  shaped  mangoes,  or 
any  that  have  become  too  soft  to  stuff, 
and  chop  these  fine  with  the  spices;  mix 
all  this  stuffing  well  together,  and  stuff 
the  mangoes.  Tie  them  with  pieces  wf 
twine,  or  sew  them  up,  put  in  a  stone 
Jar,  and  pour  over  them  the  very  be»t 
cider  vinegar.  Set  them  in  a  dry  place 
and  cover  well.  At  the  end  of  a  month 
add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar, 
and  bottle  for  use.  This  preparation  will 
keep  for  two  years. 

Pickled    Onions. 

Ognons   au   Vinaigre. 

100  Small   Onion  Buttons. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Allspice. 

1   Tablespoonful   of  Black  Pepper  and  1 

Red    Pepper    Pod    to    Each    Pint    of 

Vinegar. 

1  Dozen  White  Pepper  Corns. 

1  Dozen  Cloves. 

4  Blades  of  Mace. 

Select  the  smallest  white  button  onions. 
Remove  the  outer  skin,  and  then  remova 
the  inner  skin  with  a  silver  knife.  Steel 
will  blacken  the  onions.  Pack  them  in 
well- washed  and  carefully  dried  jars. 
Then  pour  over  the  onions  a  strong 
brine,  and  let  them  stand  for  twenty-four 
hours.  At  the  end  of  this  time  pour  off 
this  brine  and  add  another,  and  let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours  longer. 
On  the  fourth  day  make  another  stronK 
brine,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and 
throw  in  the  onions,  and  let  them  boil 
just  five  minutes.  Then  throw  them  into 
cold  water  for  several  hours.  At  the  end 
of  three  hours  drain  off  all  water  and 
pack  closely  in  Jars,  allowing  one  table- 
spoonful of  black  pepper  and  a  red  pep- 
per pod  to  every  pint  of  vinegar.  Whila 
packing  the  onions,  intersperse  them  witn 
white  pepper  corns  and  the  spices,  with 
an  occasional  piece  of  mace  or  cloves. 
Fill  this  up  with  the  scalding  vinegar, 
and  cork  or  bottle  while  very  hot. 

If  you  desire  the  pickles  to  be  slightly 
sweet,  allow  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to 
every  pint  of  vinegar.  After  three  weeka 
they  will  be  ready  for  use,  but,  like  aU 
pickles,  will  be  better  if  allowed  to  stand 
a  month  or  two. 

Pickled   String  Beans. 

Haricots    Verts    Confits. 

To    Every    7    Pounds    of    Beans    Allow    1 

Quart   of  Best   Cider  Vinegar. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Alum. 

1  Ounce  of  Cloves. 

6    Red    Pepper   Pods. 

Take  young,  tender  beans,  and  cut  the 
two  extremities  lightly,  and  string  care- 
fully. Throw  them  into  fresh  water  for 
several  hours.  Wash  "well  and  drain,  and 
put  them  into  earthen  jars.  Pour  over 
boiling  vinegar,  spiced  as  for  Tomato 
Pickle,  and  allow  one-quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  powdered  alum  to  each  quart 
of  vinegar.  Cover  and  cork  well.  Three 
days  after  pour  off  this  vinegar  and  boil 
again  and  pour  over  the  pickles,  and  let 
them  stand  again  for  three  days.  Add  a 
few  cloves  and  pieces  of  red  pepper  pods, 
and  hottle  closely. 

Toung  cauliflower,  radishes,  white  and 
red;  young  corn  and  melons  that  have 
just  begun  to  form  may  be  pickled  ac- 
cording to  the  above  recipe. 

Pickled   Watermelon   Bind. 

Ecorces   de  Melon  d'Eau   Confites  au 

Vinaigre. 

4  Pounds  of  Watermelon  Rind. 


258 


1-2  Pint  of  Best  French  Vinegar. 

1  Pound  of  Brown  Sugar. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Mixed  Ground  Cloves. 

Mace,  Cinnamon  and  Allspice, 

Cut  the  watermelon  rind  into  strips, 
coolt  in  clear  water  and  drain.  To  four 
pounds  of  rind  take  one  pound  of  brown 
sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  and 
make  a  syrup,  to  which  add  the  ground 
spices.  Boil  the  watermelon  rind  in  thl^ 
syrup  till  quite  tender.  J:*ut  in  jars  while 
hot  and   seal.     This  is  a  sweet  pickle. 

Pickled  rruits. 

Fruits  Confits  au  Vinaigre. 

6  Pounds  of  Fruit. 

3  Pounds  of  White  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Best  Cider  Vinegar. 

1    Ounce   Each    of  Cloves,   Allspice,   Mace 

and  Cinnamon. 

1  Nutmeg. 

In  pickling  fruits,  whether  peache", 
pears,  plums,  damsons  or  cherries,  allow 
six  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  of 
white  sugar  and  one  pint  of  the  best 
vinegar,  and  spices  and  mace,  cinnamon 
cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg  in  propor- 
tion. Put  the  fruit  into  a  kettle  with 
alternate  layers  of  sugar  and  spices,  and 
add  the  vinegar.  Let  all  boil  for  about 
five  minutes,  and  then  skim  out  the  fruit 
and  pack  in  glass  jars  as  it  begins  to 
cool.  Let  the  syrup  boil  till  thick,  and 
then  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over.  Bottlo 
tight,  and  examine  from  time  to  time. 
If  they  sho'W  signs  of  fermenting  open 
the  jars  or  set  thenj  uncovered  in  a  ket- 
tle of  boiling  water,  and  heat  the  con- 
tents till  they  begin  to  bubble  and  cork 
again. 

In  pickling  cherries,  always  leave  the 
stems  On  the  cherries,  and  to  every  quart 
allow  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  two  large 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  dozen  cloves  an-l 
allspice,  and  five  or  six  blades  of  mace. 
Let  the  vinegar  and  spices  boll  together 
for  about  five  minutes,  and  then  turn 
Into  an  earthen  jar  and  let  them  coo'. 
Then  strain  and  fill  the  pickle  jars  with 
the  cherries  about  three-quarters  full, 
and  pour  the  cold  vinegar  over  them. 
Bottle  tight,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickles  are  put  up  by 
using  the  ingredients  mentioned  above, 
allowing,  however,  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
vinegar  to  the  above  quantities  of  sugar 
and  fruit.  Stew  the  tomatoes,  vinegar 
and  spices  together  for  about  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour,  and  then  bottle  f<Tr  use. 
Tomato  Catsnp. 
Sauce  de  Tomates. 

4  Pecks  of  Ripe  Tomatoes. 

2   Quarts   of  Vinegar. 

1-4  Pound  of  Salt. 
1-2   Pound    of   Sugar. 
3-4  Ounce  of  Black  Pepper. 
3-4  Ounce  of  Allspice.     1  Ounce  of  Mus- 
tard.    1  Ounce  of  Ginger,  Ground. 
1-3   Ounce   of  Cloves,    Ground. 
1-8   Ounce   of   Garlic,   Minced   Very   Fine, 
A  Good  Dash  of  Cayenne. 
1-2    Pint    of   Alcohol. 

Set  the  tomatoes  to  boil  in  a  porcelain- 
lined  pot,  and,  after  half  an  hour,  press 
them  through  a  sieve,  to  remove  all  the 
seeds  and  skin.  Then  return  the  liquid 
obtained  to  the  pot,  and  let  it  reduce  to 
three-quarters.  Now  add  the  vinegar,  an.l 
let  all  reduce  to  about  one  and  a  quarter 
quarts.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the 
spices,  garlic,  ground  mustard,  pepper, 
etc.,  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil,  stirring 
continually.  Then  take  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  alcohol.  Bottle  while  the 
mixture  is  very  hot,  and  seal  well.     Thi9 


is  an  excellent  recipe,  and  the  abovo 
sauce  is  very  good,  served  with  cold 
boiled  fish,  oysters,  etc.  The  Creoles 
often  add  a  half  bottle  of  Port  Wine,  In- 
stead of  the  vinegar. 

Chervil    Vinegar. 

Vinaigre  au  Cerfeuil. 

1  Pint  of  Dried  or  Fresh  Chervil  Leaves, 
1  Quart  of  Best  French  Vinegar. 
Take  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  half 
fill  it  with  either  fresh  or  dry  Chervil 
leaves.  Fill  the  bottle  with  the  best 
vinegar,  and  set  it  in  hot  water  till  it 
reaches  the  boiling  point.  Then  remove 
from  the  fire.  When  cool  cork,  and  in 
about  two  weeks  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 
The  Creoles  use  this  vinegar  to  add  a 
flavoring  to  sauces  for  salads. 

Pepper    Vinegar. 

Vinaigre  Pimente. 
1-2  Pint  of  Small  Cherry  or  Chili  Peppers. 
1-2  Pint  of  Best  French  Vinegar. 
Every  Creole  housewife  keeps  on  hand 
a  bottle  of  Pepper  Vinegar.  It  is  made 
by  filling  a  pint  bottle  about  half  full  of 
small  Cherry  Peppers  or  Chili  Peppers, 
red  and  green,  and  then  filling  up  with 
the  best  French  vinegar  or  cider.  Bottle 
well,  and  in  about  a  week  it  will  be  ready 
for  use.  A  peculiarity  about  this  Pepper 
Vinegar  is  that  the  bottle  may  be  filled 
again  and  again  as  it  diminishes,  with- 
out adding  new  peppers.  It  is  very  strong 
and  hot,  and  a  few  drops  in  one's  soup 
or  salad  will  be  found  quite  sufficient. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. 
Vinaigre  a  I'Estragon. 

1-2  Pint  of  Tarragon  Iieaves. 

1  Quart  of  Best  Cider  or  White  Wine. 

The  best  French  Vinegar  is  made  from 
the  Tarragon  leaves.  The  French  g;aUier 
the  leaves  and  expose  them  to  the  heat 
of  the  sun  for  several  days.  Then  they 
throw  them  into  the  best  Cider  or  White 
Wine  and  steep  for  about  ti^o  weeks.  The 
liquor  is  then  carefully  strained,  a  flan- 
nel bag  being  generally  used,  and  It  la 
afterwards  bottled,  corked  and  sealed, 
and  kept  in  a  cool  place  for  exportation. 

Tarragon  Vinegar  may  also  be  made 
by  purchasing  Tarragon  leaves  from  any 
druggist,  and  allowing  a  half  pint  of  the 
leaves  to  a  quart  bottle  fUled  with  the 
best  Cider  or  WTiite  Wine,  and  follow 
the  directions  given  above. 

Spiced    Vinegar. 

Vinaigre  Aromatlse. 

1  Pound  of  Sugar. 
1 1-2  Gallons  of  the  Best  Cider  or  White 

Wine. 
1  Ounce  Each  of  Cloves,  Allspice,  Mace, 

Celery  and  Mustard  Seed. 

1 1-3     Ounces     Each     of     Black    Pepper, 

Tumeric  and  White  Ginger. 

Mix    all    the    spices    together    with    the 

vinegar  and  the  bits  of  ginger,  and  place 

in  an  earthen  Jar  and  cover  closely. 

For  smaller  proportions  take  one  quart 
of^  cider  vinegar,  and  put  it  into  one- 
third  of  an  ounce  each  of  dried  mint, 
dried  parsley,  one  grated  garlic,  two 
small  onions,  two  cloves,  one  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  corns  of  grated  nutmeg,  salt 
to  taste,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  good  Brandy.  Put  all  Into  a  Jar. 
and  let  It  stand  for  three  weeks;  then 
strain  and  bottle. 

Tabasco. 

Tabasco  a  la  Creole. 
3  Dozen  Large  Red  Peppers, 


259 


1  Clove  of  Garlic. 
1-4  Pint  of  Hot  Spiced  Vinegar. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  famous  of  our 
Creole  sauces.  It  is  made  from  cele- 
brated Louisiana  Tabasco  Peppers,  whose 
flavor  is  unsurpassed.  The  hot  peppers 
are  much  sought  after.  The  following 
method  of  preparing  this  famous  Sauco 
a  la  Creole  is  the  one  used  in  all  the 
ancient  Creole  homes  of  Louisiana.  Take 
three  dozen  large  red  Tabasco  peppers 
or  Chili  peppers,  and  one  clove  of  garlic, 
chopped  very  fine,  and  scald  them  until 
very  tender.  Then  mash  the  peppers  and 
garlic  together,  and  press  them  through 
a  sieve.  Take  the  paste  thus  formed 
and  dilute  it  with  spiced  vinegar  till  it 
reaches  the  consistency  of  rich  cream. 
Bottle  and  seal  for  use.  The  garlic  ma/ 
be  omitted. 

Bed   Pepper   Catsup   a  la   Creole. 

Sauce   de  Poivre  Rouge  a   la   Creole. 

4  Dozen  Pepper  Pods. 

2  Quarts  of  Best  French  Vinegar. 
8  Tablespoonfuls  of  Grated  Horseradish. 

5  Onions.    1    Garlic. 

Take  four  dozen  pods  of  ripe  grean 
peppers,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  of 
water,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
horseradish,  five  onions,  sliced,  and  one 
garlic.  Boil  all  together  till  the  onions 
are  very  soft.  Then  mash  all  together  to 
a  paste  and  strain,  rubbing  through  the 
sieve  till  nothing  remains  but  the  seeds 
and  skins.  When  cold,  bottle  and  cork 
tightly  for  use. 

Maunsell-White. 

This  is  a  famous  Creole  preparation, 
and  it  bears  the  name  of  the  family  that 
originated  it.  In  Maunsell-White  the  in- 
fusion of  Cayenne  is  so  hot  that  only  a 
few  drops  suffice,  but  the  taste  Is  most 
pungent  and  stimulative  to  the  palate, 
and  is  especially  agreeable  when  eating 
oysters  with  Oyster  Bread,  or  "Hard 
Tack." 

Creole  Mustard. 

Moutard   Creole. 

1  Pound  of  Creole  Mustard. 

1  Pint  of  White  W^ine. 

1  Teaspoonful   of  Ground  Cloves. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Celery  Seed. 

1    Tablespoonful    of   Ground   Allspice. 


2  Blades  of  Ground  Mace. 

1  Clove  of  Garlic. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Put  a  pint  of  White  wine  into  a  clean 
saucepan,  add  the  mixed  ground  spica, 
crushed  clove  of  garlic,  celery  seeds  ana 
salt.  Steep  on  the  rear  part  of  the  stove 
for  one  hour.  Mix  the  mustard,  ground 
to  a  flour,  into  a  smooth  paste,  with 
equal  parts  of  cider  and  Tarragon  Vine- 
gar. Strain  out  the  spices  from  the  Winn 
and  add  to  the  paste  while  boiling  hot. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  bottle  for  use. 

Salted    Almonds. 

Amandes  Salees. 

1  Pint  of  Almonds. 
1   Tablespoonful    of   Salt. 

Take  about  a  pint  of  almonds,  shell 
them,  and  then  blanch  or  scald  them  in 
boiling  water  till  the  skin  comes  off 
easily.  Dry  well,  and  place  in  a  flat  tin 
dish;  add  about  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
set  the  plate  In  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  almonds  are  a  golden  brown.  Then 
take  them  out  of  the  oven,  add  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  salt,  stir  them  round 
and  round,  or  according  to  the  way  In 
which  the  almonds  pick  up  the  salt, 
dredging  quickly  with  the  salt,  and  turn 
them  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Pick  out  the 
almonds,  and  throw  aside  the  extra  salt. 
When  cool,  place  in  a  box  for  use,  cover- 
ing tightly.  The  salt  may  be  added  when 
the  almonds  are  first  put  in  the  oven. 
Be  careful  to  turn  frequently  while  they 
are  in  the  oven,  so  that  they  may  be 
equally  browned  on  all  sides.  Almonds 
prepared  after  this  manner  are  delicious. 

Another  way  to  prepare  Salted  Al- 
monds is  to  take  the  whole  blanched  al- 
monds and  put  them  on  a  baking  sheet 
and  roast  m  a  hot  oven  to  a  slight 
brown.  Then  make  a  solution  of  Gum 
Arabic  and  water  and  wet  the  almonds 
with  it.  Dust  over  them  very  finely 
powdered  and  sifted  table  salt,  and  stir 
well   but  gently  till   dry. 

Salted    Peanuts.  ? 

Des  Pistaches   Salees. 

1  Pint  of  Whole  Peanuts. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt. 

Take  blanched  whole  peanuts,  and  pro- 
ceed in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  in 
the  last  recipe  given  for  Salted  Almonds. 


CHAPTER  XLVn. 
CBEOiE .  BREADS. 


Perhaps  no  branch  of  Creole  cookery 
so  interests  visitors  to  New  Orleans  as 
our  Creole  Breads.  While  in  breakfast 
relishes,  such  as  batter  cakes,  flannel 
cakes,  waffles,  buckwheat  cakes,  biscuit, 
etc.,  we  have  much  in  common  with  other 
sections,  there  is  a  distinctiveness  about 
our  "Brioches,"  "Babas,"  "Calas,"  "Saca- 
mites,"  "Sweet  Potato  Bread,"  French 
Loaves,  French  Rolls,  etc.,  which  are  pe- 
culiar to  ourselves  alone.  Our  "Baker .? 
Bread,"  or  "Pain  de  Boulanger,"  of  itself 
stands  unique  among  the  breads  of  thn 
United  States,  and  has  been  the  subject 
of  more  than  one  interesting  newspaper 
and  magazine  article.  It  has  this  pe- 
culiarity, that  one  never  tires  of  it,  as 
they  do  of  other  breads,  and  the  reason 
for  this  is  that  it  is  of  exquisite  light- 
ness, white  and  tender,  Qf  an  even  porous 
character,  with  a  thin,  crisp  crust,  and. 
best  of  all,  is  .lust  such  a  bread  as  is 
required  in  our  climate.  Made  into  toast.3. 


Des  Pains   a,  la  Creole. 

it  is  the  most  delightful  of  all  breads, 
no  home-made  light  bread  or  bakers 
bread  in  any  other  part  of  the  United 
States    standing    comparison    with    it. 


How  to    Make   and   Bake   Bread. 

Bread,  to  be  perfect,  should  be  light 
and  sweet,  with  a  rich,  nutty  flavor  of 
the  wheat-  To  obtain  this  result,  only 
the  best  flour  and  the  best  dough  must 
be  used.  While  the  bread  is  rising  the 
temperature  of  the  oven  should  be  at 
about  75  degrees  Fahrenheit,  and  the  heat 
of  the  oven  in  baking  should  be  about 
360  degrees,  or  hot  enough  to  raise  tho 
Inside  of  the  bread  to  about  220  degrees. 
This  is  necessary  to  cook  the  starch, 
expand  the  carbonic  gas,  steam  and  air, 
and  also  to  drive  off  the  alcohol  whicS 
is  used  In  the  yeast.  The  bakers  In  New 
Orleans  have  a  way  of  testing  the  tem- 
perature of  the  oven  by  putting  a  piece  of 
white   paper   in   it.    If   it   turns   dark   in 


260 


five  minutes  the  oven  is  of  tlie  rigrht 
temperature.  If  it  bums,  tlie  oven  is 
too  hot,  and  must  be  cooled  before  put- 
ting the  bread  in,  and  if  the  paper  ia 
only  a  light  brown  at  the  end  of  five 
minutes,  the  C'Ven  must  be  made  hotter. 
Again,  they  sprinkle  flour,  and  If  it 
browns  or  smokes  before  you  can  count 
ten,  the  oven  is  too  hot;  if  it  browns  at 
ten,  the  oven  is  of  the  right  temperature. 

Brick  ovens  are  used,  and  the  loaves 
of  bread  are  shoved  into  the  oven  gen- 
erally on  baking  boards. 

Rolls  are  always  baked  first;  then  the 
bread,  and  afterwards  the  pies  and  cakes. 
It  is  best  to  have  the  oven  heated  in  time 
and  closed  for  one  hour  at  least  before 
beginning  to  bake. 

Bread  should  be  in  the  oven  about  ten 
minutes  before  it  begins  to  brown.  When 
done,  remove  carefully  from  the  pan,  and 
tip  it  against  a  bread  board,  just  as  they 
do  in  New  Orleans  bakeries.  This  allc^vs 
the  air  to  circulate  freely  around  it. 
Never  cover  bread  that  has  been  freshly 
baked,  if  you  wish  it  to  be  fresh  and 
sweet  and  crisp.  When  cool,  place  in  a 
clean  bread  box,  without  using  a  "bread 
bag,"  as  is  so  common  among  many  fam- 
ilies. This  bag  absorbs  the  moisture  from 
the  bread,  and  causes  it  to  sour  quickly. 

The  New  Orleans  bakers  always  use 
Compressed  Teast  for  leavening  bread,  as 
it  does  not  necessitate  making  a  ferment 
or  setting  sponge  before  mixing  the 
dough. 

Bakers'    Bread. 
Pain  de  Boulanger. 

1  Ounce  of  Compressed  Teast. 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Salt. 

2  Quarts  of  Water. 

Flour    Sufficient   to    Make    a    Smooth 

Dough. 

Allow  one  ounce  of  Compressed  Yeast 
to  one  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  and  mix 
well  in  a  wooden  bread  trough.  Then 
add  flour  enough  to  make  a  nice  smooth 
dough  of  medium  degree,  not  too  stiff, 
nor  yet  too  soft.  Work  it  well,  and  then 
let  it  stand  for  about  five  hours  In  a 
warm  place,  so  as  to  rise  well.  When  It 
drops,  or  begins  to  fall  (you  can  tell  this 
by  watching  the  sides  of  the  dough),  add 
the  same  amount  of  water  that  was  used 
in  making  the  dough,  putting  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  into  the  water  before 
adding  it.  Work  this  well,  and  then 
throw  down  on  the  table,  cut  and  mold 
the  dough  into  loaves  of  whatever  len^ta 
is  desired,  and  take  a  smooth  stick  and 
press  lightly  down  across  the  loaf  about 
two  inches  from  the  edge.  The  bakers 
put  the  loaves  into  the  oven  without  set- 
ting in  a  pan.  Watch  carefully,  and  see 
that  the  oven  Is  of  the  temperature  men- 
tioned   above. 

The  above  quantity  will  make  about 
five  loaves. 

French  Bread. 

Pain  Francais. 

1  Ounce  of  Yeast. 

1 1-2    Ounces   of   Salt. 

2  Quarts  of  Water. 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Sugar. 

Flour    Sufficient   to    Make   a    Smooth 

Dough. 

Dissolve  the  yeast,  salt  and  sugar  into 
the  water  and  mix  in  flour  sufficient  to 
make  a  nice  smooth  dough  of  medlmo 
degree,  not  too  stiff,  nor  yet  too  soft. 
Work  until  it  no  longer  adheres  to  the 
hand  or  bowl,  and  then  cover  with  a 
cloth  and  set  to  rise  until  It  has  doubled 
its  size.  This  will  be  in  about  four  or 
five  hours.     When  It  begins  to  sink,  work 


it  well  again  and  set  to  rise  anew.  When 
well  risen  divide  the  dough  into  equal 
pieces,  and  mold  into  round  ball  shapes, 
or  into  long  loaves  of  about  two  inches 
in  thickness.  Lay  the  loaves  on  a  board 
previously  sprinkled  with  flour  and  at 
sufficient  distance  apart  not  to  touch  one 
another,  and  set  to  rise  again.  Let  them 
rise  to  nearly  double  the  previous  size. 
Have  the  oven  heated,  transfer  the  loaves 
into  it,  wash  over  with  eggs  mixed  with 
water,  make  diagonal  cuts  half  way 
across  on  each  loaf,  half  way  through, 
and  close  the  oven.  WTien  baked 
brush  off  the  flour,  wipe  the  tops  with 
a  damp  cloth  and  the  bread  is  ready  to 
serve. 

Fan  Bread. 

Pain   de    Plaque. 

1  Ounce  of  Compressed  Teast. 

1-4  Pound  of  Lard. 

2    Quarts    of    Water. 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Salt. 

Flour    Sufficient   to    Make   a    Smooth 

Dough. 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Su^ar,  if  Desired. 

This  is  a  nice,  large-loafed  bread,  with 
a  dainty  crust,  that  is  somewhat  glu- 
tinous, and,  as  the  name  indicates,  is 
baked  in  a  pan  by  our  bakers.  It  Is  re- 
markable for  the  daintiness  of  grain  of 
the  bread  after  baking.  Make  the  same 
dough  as  for  Bakers'  Bread,  only  work 
the  loaves  twice  over;  then  put  them  in 
the  oven  and  dredge  lightly  with  flour. 
As  they  begin  to  rise  make  a  light  paste 
of  flour  and  water  or  egg  and  water  and 
spread  very  lightly  over  them.  This  la 
brushed  lightly  with  lard,  to  keep  from 
getting  too  crusty.  Bake  in  a  rather 
hotter    oven    than    the    other    bread. 

French    LoaTes. 

Des  Petits  Pains  Francais. 

1  Ounce  of  Compressed  Yeast. 

2  Quarts  of  Water. 

1 1-2    Ounces   of  Salt. 

Flour    Sufficient   to    Make   a   S"mooth 

Dough. 

These  are  the  dainty  little  loaves  so 
generally  used  in  our  New  Orleans  res- 
taurants and  hotels.  Make  the  dough 
as  in  Bakers'  Bread,  and  after  it  has 
risen  and  begins  to  drop,  scale  the 
dough  off,  and  cut  and  mold  them  into 
little  loaves  of  about  the  length  of  a 
nian's  hand.  Mold  them  round  and  set 
them  to  rise  again.  When  they  are  very 
light,  which  will  be  in  a  few  minute.^, 
take  them  up  and  work  them  well  sep- 
arately, and  then  mold  them  again  an.! 
gently  press  in  the  center  with  a  smooth 
stick.  Lay  them  in  a  box  with  a  stiff 
cloth  over  them,  and  let  them  lie  for  a 
few  minutes.  Take  off  the  cloth  and  set 
them  in  the  oven  to  brown  nicely.  Sot 
to  cool   as  above  indicated. 

Twist  Loaves. 

Pain  Tresse. 

1  Ounce  of  Compressed  Yeast. 

2    Quarts    of    Water. 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Salt. 

Flour   Sufficient   to   Make   a  Smooth 

Dough. 

Make  t^ie  identical  dough  as  in  "Bak- 
ers' Bread."  After  the  first  rising  and 
throwing  in  of  water  and  working  tlio 
bread  cut  the  dough,  and  divide  each 
portion  Into  three  pieces  of  dough.  Dust 
this  dough  well  with  parched  flour  and 
roll  the  pieces  into  lengths  of  about  two 
feet,  or  a  foot  *nfl  a  half,  and  plait 
them.  Then  lay  them  In  a  long  box  or  on 
a  board,  and  cover  with  a  stiff  cloth,  as 


26X 


in  French  Loaves,  and  let  them  lie  till 
they  begin  to  rise.  Place  in  the  oven 
and  bake  to  a  nice  brown. 

Bye   Bread. 

Pain  de  Seigle. 

1  Ounce  of  Compressed  Teast. 

2  Quarts  of  Water. 

1 1-2  Ounces  of  Salt. 

Rye    and    Flour    Sufficient    to     Make    a 

Smooth  Dough. 

A    Few    Kummel    Seed. 

Make  the  dough  a  little  stiffer  than 
for  White  Bread,  allowing  one-half  of 
wheat  flour  and  one-half  rye.  Allow  the 
same  amount  of  yeast,  and  add  a  few 
Kummel  seeds  and  a  little  more  salt  than 
tor  White  Bread.  Set  to  rise.  After  ons.- 
rising  work  again  as  in  Bakers'  Bread, 
divide  it  into  loaves,  and  set  it  to  rise 
again.  When  about  twice  its  original 
size  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Home-Made    Creole    Light    Bread. 

Pain   de   Menage  a  la   Creole. 

2  Quarts  of  Flour. 

1-2  Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 

1 1-2    Pints    of    Milk    or    Water. 

Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1  Tablespoonful  fi-f  Lard. 

Sift  the  flour.  Then  put  into  a  wooden 
bread  trough  or  a  pan,  and  make  a  hole 
in  the  center  of  the  flour.  Add  warm 
water  or  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  nic*?, 
smooth,  rather  stiff  batter.  Mix  the  veast 
with  a  little  tepid  water  till  well  dis- 
solved, and  add.  Then  set  to  rise  over 
night  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  mornin>| 
take  up  and  again  make  a  hole  in  the 
center  of  the  dough,  and  add  half  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  melted  lard  or  butter,  oiie 
and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and 
one  and  one-halt  pints  of  warm  milk  or 
water.  Then  add  the  flour  and  kneal 
well  about  ten  times.  When  it  forms  a 
smooth  dougli  form  into  a  cake,  and  set 
to  rise  again.  When  risen  to  about  twice 
its  size  take  up  and  knead  again  about 
five  times,  that  is,  work  one  piece  of 
dough  over  the  other  about  five  times, 
and  set  to  rise  again.  Always,  when  set- 
ting to  rise,  sprinkle  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  with  a  little  flour.  After  an  hour 
take  up  the  bread  and  knead  for  about 
ten  minutes,  till  you  .have  a  nice  dough, 
that  can  be  worked  without  sprinkling 
the  biscuit  board  with  flour.  Then  form 
the  dough  into  two  loaves.  Place  -them 
side  by  side  in  the  baking  pan,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Milk  Bread. 

Pain  au   Lait. 

2  Quarts  of  Flour. 

1-2    Teacupful    of   Teast    or   1-2    Cake    of 

Compressed  Teast. 

1  Pint  of  Flresh  Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

2    Ounces    of    Butter. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  then  turn  it  into 
the  bread  trough  or  pan.  Add  imme- 
diately the  butter  and  the  salt.  When  it 
becomes  tepid  add  the  yeast  and  about 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  or  half  a  pint 
of  flour,  using  always  good  judgment  in 
addinsr  sufficient,  more  or  less,  to  make 
a  thick  batter.  Then  beat  thoroughly 
'■■'1  qir  bubbles  accumulate  all  over  the 
surface  of  the  batter.  Then  cover  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  Very 
earlv  in  the  morning  work  in  the  rest 
of  the  ilour,  and  take  it  out  of  the  paTi 
and  put  on  a  board  and  knead  quickly 
and   lightly  until  the  dough  Is  perfectly 


smooth  and  does  not  cling  to  the  hands 
or  the  board.  Then  put  it  back  in  the 
trough  or  pan  and  cover  with  a  cloth, 
and  set  to  rise  again  in  a  warm  place. 
\Vhen  it  has  increased  to  twice  its  bulk 
turn  again  upon  the  board,  and  then  dl- 
viu^  the  dough  into  two  parts.  Mold 
these  lightly  and  gently  into  small  loaves, 
and  stand  away  to  rise  for  about  half  an 
hour.  Then  set  in  the  oven,  which  should 
be  moderately  quick,  and  bake  for  three- 
quarters   of  an  hour. 

The  famous  Vienna  Bread,  now  so 
much  sought  after,  is  nothing  else  than 
this  ancient  Milk  Bread,  or  Creole  "Pain 
au  Lait,"  that  has  been  used  for  genera- 
tions  in   Creole  homes. 

Buttermilk  Bread. 

Pain  au   Babeurre. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 
1  Pint  of  Buttermilk. 
1  Dessertspoonful  of  Soda. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1-4    Pound    of    Powdered    Sugar. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
Warm  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  butter 
and  soda,  the  latter  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water.     Then  add  the  flour  and  set 
to   rise.     When   well   risen   knead   lightly, 
place   in  a   baking  pan,   let  it  rise  again 
for  half  an  hour,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.     This    makes    an    excellent,    nutri- 
tious and  very  white  bread,  and  is  much 
used    by    the    Creoles    in    making    French 
Toasts. 

Buttermilk  Rolls  are  made  by  simply 
pinching  off  the  above  dough  into  pieces 
abO'ut  the  size  of  a  walnut  or  egg, 
shaping  into  little  balls,  and  proceeding 
as  above. 

Bice    Bread. 

Pain  de  Riz. 

1  Cup  of  Cold  Boiled  Rice. 

2   Cups    of   White   Indian   Meal.     2   Eggs 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 

2    Heaping    Teaspoonfuls    of    Baking 

Powder. 

1 1-4  Pints  of  Milk. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs 
together  until  very  light,  and  then  pour 
in  the  milk,  mixing  gradually.  Add  the 
well-prepared  meal,  into  which  you  will 
have  mixed  the  salt  and  Baking  Powder. 
Beat  well.  Then  add  the  melted  butter 
and  the  rice,  which  you  will  have  pressed 
through  a  sieve.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  and 
beat  till  very  light.  Then  grease  the 
bottom  of  a  shallow  pan  and  turn  the 
mixture  in  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a. 
hot  oven.  Serve  hot,  buttering  the  slices 
freely.  This  is  a  delicious  breakfast 
bread,  and,  as  in  any  of  the  above  re- 
cipes, cold  rice  left  over  may  be  utilized 
in  its  making. 

Sweet   Potato   Bread. 

Pain    de    Patates. 

1  Quart  of  Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Flour. 

1  Pint  of  Milk  or  Warm  Water. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1-2    Teacup    of    Fresh    Teast,    or    Half    a 
Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 

This  is  a  delicious  Creole  Bread.  The 
potatoes  must  be  baked,  peeled  and 
mashed.  Put  the  milk,  or  water,  and  the 
yeast  and  salt  into  a  bowl  or  pan;  add 
the  butter,  which  must  be  melted.  Beat 
thoroughly,  and  set  over  night  in  a  warm 
place.  In  the  morning  add  the  potatoes, 
mashed  and  pressed  through  a  sieve,  and 


262 


gradually  add  the  flour,  which  must  be 
sifted  three  times.  Beat  to  a  light  sponge; 
then  cover,  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place  till  it  doubles  its  size.  Then  turn 
out  on  a  bread  board  and  mold  into 
loaves;  put  in  a  slightly  greased  pan  and 
let  rise  till  light.  Then  bake  In  a  mod- 
erate oven  forty-five  minutes. 

Bourrelet. 

1   Quart   of   Milk. 

1  Quart  of  Water. 
3-4    Ounce    of   Yeast. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

1-4  Pound  of  L.ard. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar  (it  Desired). 

Dissolve  the  sugar  (if  desired),  tha 
yeast  and  salt,  with  the  milk  and  the 
water.  Then  add  flour  sufficient  to  make 
a  nice  dough  of  medium  firmness.  Add 
the  lard,  and  work  the  dough  until 
smooth.  Then  form  into  a  round  mass 
and  set  to  rise.-  When  the  dough  has 
doubled  its  size  work  anew  and  mol^ 
into  small  round  balls  and  set  into 
greased  baking  pans  at  a  little  distance 
apart  from  one  another.  Set  to  rise 
again,  and  when  they  have  doubled  their 
size  bake  in  a  brisk  oven. 

French     Bolls. 

Bourrelets  a.  la  Francaise. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Fresh  Milk. 
2  Quarts  of  W^hite  Flour.     2  Begs. 

2  Ounces  of  Butter. 
Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Sugar   (WTiich  May  be 

Omitted,  According  to  Taste). 

3-4  Cake  of  Compressed  Yeast,  Dissolved 

in    Warm  Water. 

Boil  the  milk,  take  off  the  stove,  and 
add  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt.  Then 
add  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Stir  in  about 
one  and  a  half  pc-unds  of  flour,  more  or 
less,  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  beat 
till  air  bubbles  accumulate  all  over  i.he 
surface.  Then  cover  with  a  close  cloth 
and  set  to  rise  over  night  in  a  warm 
place.  Then  take  up  the  dough  and 
knead  lightly  with  the  remaining  flour  to 
make  a  nice,  soft  dough,  and  shape  with 
your  hands  into  nice,  small  rolls  or  balls. 
Set  them  together  in  the  baking  pan, 
which  you  will  have  lightly  sprinkled 
with  flour.  Then  set  to  rise  for  an  hour 
longer.  S'et  in  the  oven,  and  bake  about 
a  half  hour.  These  rolls  are  delicious 
for  breakfast,  or  for  luncheon  or  supper. 
They  may  be  set  to  rise  in  the  early 
morning,  and  served  hot  at  luncheon. 

Tea    Rolls. 

Bourrelets  pour  le  The. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 

1-2  Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

1  Gill  of  Warm  Water. 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt  together.  Scald 
the  milk,  and  when  tepid  add  the  yeast, 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  to  one- 
half  of  the  milk.  Add  one-half  of  the 
flour,  and  make  a  thin  batter,  stirring 
very  smooth.  Set  it  to  rise  in  a  warn 
place,  and  at  the  end  of  three  hours  make 
it  into  a  dough  with  the  remainder  of  the 
milk  and  flour,  and  knead  well  till  the 
dough  no  longer  adheres  to  the  board  or 
to  your  hands.  Then  shape  it  with  your 
hands  into  small  balls,  set  to  rise  for 
a  half  hour  longer,  or  an  hour,  and  bake 
In  a  moderate  oven  for  a  half  hour. 


BUSKS. 

Echaudes  Sees. 

1  Pint  of  W^arm  MUk. 
1-2  Cup  of  Butter. 
1  Cup  of  Sugar.    2  Eggs. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
1  Cake  of  Compressed  Yeast. 
Flour    Sufficient    to    Make    a    Batter. 
Dissolve   the   yeast   in  the   wamx  milk, 
and  then  add  flour  sufficient  to  make  a 
thin    batter.     Set  to  rise   over   night.    In 
the  morning  beat  the  sugar  and  the  but- 
ter to   a   cream,   and   add  the   eggs,   well 
beaten.    Add    these    to    the    batter,    beat 
well,   add   the   salt,   and   sufficient   flour 
to   make    a   soft    dough.     Then   mold   the 
dough  Into  balls  with  your  hands,  or  into 
small  loaves.     Set  to  rise  until  they  have 
reached    about    twice    their    bulk.     Then 
place    in    the    oven    and    bake    for   thirty 
minutes.     If  sweet  rusks  are  not  desired, 
omit  the  sugar. 

TOAST. 

Pain  Roti. 

6  Slices  of  Bread. 

Butter  to  Taste. 

Slice  the  bread,  neither  too  thick  nor 
too  thin.  Cut  off  the  rough  edges  of 
the  crust.  Hold  on  a  fork  before  burn- 
ing coals  till  nicely  toasted  on  one  side. 
Then  turn  on  the  other,  and  proceed  as 
before.  If  dry  toast  is  desired,  the  bread 
is  not  uuttered.  If  buttered  toast,  butter 
nicely,  set  in  the  oven  a  second  and  send 
to  the  table  hot. 

Some  cooks  toast  bread  by  simply  set- 
ting the  slices  in  the  oven  and  letting 
them  brown  on  either  side.  But  there  is 
no  comparison  in  lightness  to  the  toast 
prepared  in  the  above  old-fashioned  way. 
Cream  or  Milk  Toast. 
Rotis  a  la  Creme  ou  au   Lait. 

6   Slices   of   Bread. 

1  Pint  of  Hot  Cream  or  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Toast  the  bread  nicely,  and  butter  well 
on  both  sides.  Lay  in  a  dish,  and  pour 
over  hot  milk.    Serve  hot. 

Or,  heat  one  pint  of  Cream,  add  one 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  poor 
over  the  hot  toast.  Slightly  stale  bread 
may  be  utilized  in  this  way. 

Soda  crackers  may  be  toasted  and 
served  in  the  same  way.  This  Is  a  great 
suppel*  dish  among  the  Creole  plantation 
homes  of  Louisiana. 

liOSt  Bread  or  £gg  Toaat. 

Pain  Perdu. 

B  Eggs. 

2    Tablespoonfuls    of    Orange    Flower 

Water. 

1-2  Cup   of  Sugar. 

Slices  of  Stale  Bread. 

The  Finely-Grated   Zest  of  a  Lemon. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Brandy  (if  Desired). 

The  Creoles  utilize  left-over  stale  bread 
in  that  delightful  breakfast  relish  known 
as  "Pain  Perdu."  Break  the  eggs  Into  a 
bowl,  beat  them  till  very  light,  add  the 
Orange  Flower  Water  and  the  Brandy,  If 
desired,  and  then  add  the  sugar,  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Add  the  grated  zest  of 
a  len\on,  mix  well,  and  then  cut  the  bread 
into  slices  or  round  pieces,  taking  off  the 
crust,  or  still  again  into  diamond  shapes, 
and  soak  them  well  for  a  half  hour  in 
the  mixture.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan 
of  boiling  lard  (see  General  Directions 
for  Frying),  lay  in  the  bread,  and  fry  tP 
a  golden  brown.  Lift  the  slices  out  with 
a  skimmer,  and  drain  on  brown  paper  In 


263 


the  mouth  of  the  oven.  Then  place  on  a 
hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugrar, 
as  you  would  fritters,  add  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  if  desired,  and  serve  hot. 

Spanish    Toast, 

Rotis   a    I'Espagnole. 

1    Egg.     1    Cup    of    Milli. 

1  Gill  of  Brandy  or  Rum  (if  Desired). 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  Sugar. 

1-2  Ounce  Each  of  Powdered  Nutmeg  and 

Cinnamon. 

6    Slices    of   Stale    Bread. 

Lard   for   Frying. 

Beat  the  egg  and  sugar  well,  and  add 
the  milk  and  the  Rum  or  Brandy,  if 
desired.  Have  ready  the  slices  of  stale 
bread,  cut  in  diamond  shapes  or  square, 
and  let  them  soak  for  about  a  half  hour 
in  the  mixture.  Then  lay  into  a  pan  of 
boiling  lard,  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 
Skim  out  and  drain  on  brown  paper  in 
the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  place  on  a 
hot  dish.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
and  grated  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and 
serve  with  milk  or  cream. 

BRIOCHES. 

2  Pounds  of  the  Best  Flour. 

1-2    Ounce    of    Yeast. 

1   Cup    of   Sugar. 

1-2   Ounce   of  Salt. 

1  Pound  of  the  Best  Butter. 

12   or   8   Eggs. 

To  make  "Brioches,"  take  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  the  best  quality  of  flour,  and 
put  it  in  a  wooden  bread  trough.  Make 
a  hole  in  the  center  of  ihe  flour,  and 
put  in  a  half  ounce  of  yeast,  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  water.  Take  milk  or 
tepid  water  to  make  the  dough,  using 
milk  if  you  want  it  to  be  very  rich  and 
delicate,  and  water  if  you  have  not  the 
milk.  Knead  and  mix  the  flour  with  one 
hand,  while  adding  the  milk  or  water 
with  the  other.  Make  a  dough  that  is 
neither  too  stiff  nor  too  soft,  and  when 
perfectly  smooth  set  the  dough  to  risa 
in  a  moderately  warm  place,  covering 
with  a  cloth.  Remember  that  if  you  use 
milk  to  make  the  dough,  the  milk  must 
be  scalded,  that  Is,  it  must  be  heated  to 
the  boiling  point  and  then  allowed  to 
grow  tepid.  Let  the  dough  rise  for  five 
or  six  hours,  and  when  increased  to  twice 
Its  bulk  take  it  and  add  the  reserved 
half  pound  of  flour,  into  which  you  will 
have  sifted  the  salt.  Add  six  eggs,  beat- 
en very  light,  with  the  sugar  and  butter, 
and  mix  all  well  together,  kneading 
lightly  with  your  hands,  and  adding  more 
eggs  if  the  dough  is  a  little  stiff.  Then 
knead  the  dough  by  turning  it  over  on 
itself  three  times,  and  set  to  rise  again 
for  an  hour  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Cover  with  a  cloth.  At  the  end  of  this 
time  take  it  up  and  work  again  lightly 
and  then  form  into  "Brioches,"  that  i?, 
work  the  dough  gently  with  your  hands, 
and  then  break  it  into  pieces  about  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Pat  these  gently,  forming 
them  into  neat  rolls,  a  little  flattened, 
and  then  make  one  roll  about  twice  the 
size  of  the  others.  This  roll  will  form  the 
head  of  the  Brioche.  Have  ready  a  bak- 
i«t&  nan  with  a  buttered  sheet  of  paper  In 
ij  and  set^Jje  central  roll  in  the  middle. 
«tange~a?<ja%d  the  other  rolls,  having 
at  least  six,  or  eight,  to  form  a  perfect- 
looking  cake.  Cover  the  pan  with  a 
clean,  stiff  cloth,  and  set  the  cake  to  rise 
for  an  hour  longer.  When  well  risen,  set 
In  an  oven  a  few  degrees  cooler  than  that 
used  for  baking  Bread.  If  the  rolls  arc 
large,  let  them  bake  an  hour  and  a  hair; 
if  medium,  one  Tiour,  and  if  very  small, 
a    half    hour.    Some    bakers    and    cooks 


glace  the  Brioche  lightly  with  a  beaten 
egg,  which  is  spread  lightly  over  the  top, 
before  placing  in  the  oven.  This  gives 
the  rich,  glossy  surface  so  often  seen  on 
the  Brioche.  Again,  if  you  cannot  afford 
butter,  use  lard,  or  half  butter  and  lard, 
but  the  Brioche  made  with  butter  and 
milk  is  the  most  delicate  and  refined, 
and  the  true  Creole  Brioche,  peculiar  to 
New  Orleans.  After  the  Brioches  are 
baked,  set  them  to  cool,  if  you  do  not 
wish  to  eat  them  hot.  When  serving, 
whether  hot  or  cold,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
powdered  white  sugar. 
BABA. 

2  Pounds  of  the  Best  Flour. 
1-2  Ounce  of  Yeast. 

1  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Salt. 

1  Pound  of  the  Best  Butter. 

12  or  14  Eggs. 
1-2  Pound  of  Seeded  Raisins. 
1-2  Pound  of  Currants. 
1-2  Glass  of  Sweetened  Water. 
A  Tinge  of  Saffron. 
The  Sough  for  the  "Baba"  is  exactly 
the  same  as  that  for  the  Brioche.  Pro- 
ceed in  exactly  the  same  manner,  only 
at  the  moment  of  adding  the  reserved 
flour  to  the  leavened  add  a  half  pound  of 
raisins  seeded,  and  a  half  pound  of  cur- 
rants, washed,  picked  and  dried.  Adii 
also  a  half  glass  of  sweetened,  tepid  wa.- 
ter,  in  which  you  will  have  put  a  little 
saffron.  Be  careful  to  keep  this  dough 
much  softer  than  that  for  the  Brioche, 
adding  more  eggs,  if  necessary,  to  insure 
the  proper  degree  of  consistency.  Th3 
dough  must  rise  at  least  six  or  seven 
hours.  When  it  has  increased  to  twice 
its  volume,  after  the  third  rising,  cook 
as  you  would  the  Brioche,  in  an  oven  a 
few  degrees  cooler  tlian  that  used  in  bak- 
ing Bread.  The  "Baba"  is  made  into  a 
round  cake.  Just  like  a  Pound  Cake  or 
Sponge  Cake,  and  is  formed  Into  this 
round  shape  with  the  hands.  After  bak- 
ing let  cool  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
white  sugar.  This  is  the  cake  that  tha 
Creole  bakers  of  New  Orleans  send  as  a 
"Christmas"  or  "New  Year's  Offering" 
to  their  customers. 

The  German  bakers  of  New  Orleans 
took  up  the  cuslom,  and  make  the 
"Baba"  by  adding  to  the  raisins  and 
currants  a  little  Aniseed,  Instead  of  the 
Saffron. 

BTJIiliFBOGS. 
Grenouilles. 

1-2  Pound   of  the  Best  Flour. 

1-2    Ounce    of    Yeast. 

1-4  Cup  of  Sugar.    1-2  Ounce  of  Salt. 

1   Pound    of   the   Best   Butter. 

12  or  8  Eggs. 

Under  this  amusing  name  are  sold  the 
delicious  small  rolls,  so  dainty  and  fine, 
and  which  are  served  in  all  our  Creole 
homes  and  restaurants.  The  rolls  are 
joined  together  lightly  in  long  rows  of 
about  eight  inches  in  length  and  three  in 
width.  They  are  brought  to  the  doors 
bv  the  bakers  every  morning  in  this  old 
ITrench  city.  The  dough  for  "Bullfrogs 
Is  lust  the  same  as  that  for  the  Brioche, 
only  a  half  pound  of  flour  is  used,  in- 
stead of  a  pound,  and  a  cup  of  butter. 
Bake  in  the  same  manner.  They  t.re  de- 
lightful accompaniments  to  the  most  re- 
cherche breakfast. 

CHBBSE    CAKES. 
\    '  '  '^^mo^lses. 

1-4  Pound  of  Flour. 
1  Glass  of    Water. 


264 


A  Pinch  of  Salt. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

6  Eggs.    2  Cream  Cheeses. 

A  Brioche  or  Plain  Paste  (See  Recipe 

Plain  Paste). 

Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  add 
the  water  and  the  salt.  Let  all  come  to 
a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Then  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  eggs,  beaten 
well,  and  the  cream  cheese.  Mix  all  well. 
Then  take  small  molds  or  tins  and  line 
wita  the  Plain  Paste,  or  Brioche  Paste, 
rolled  very  thin.  Place  within  the  prep- 
aration of  cream  cheese  in  quantity  equal 
to  an  egg  in  size.  Then  cover  the  cakes 
with  a  piece  of  rolled  dough,  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven.  These  are ,  delicious 
breakfast  cakes,  and  much  in  vogue  in 
ancient   Creole   homes. 

FELLIiASO. 

2  Pounds  of  Flour. 

1   Pound   of   Butter,   or   Half   Butter  and 

Lard. 

12  Eggs.    1-2  Ounce  of  Yeast. 

1  Gill  of  Brandy. 

1  Tablespoottful  of  Orange  Flower  Water. 

Milk    or   Tepid   W^ater  to   Form   a 

Dough. 

1  Pound   of  Figs  or  Stoned  Cherries. 

Make  the  same  dough  as  for  the 
Broiche.  At  the  moment  of  adding  the 
leavened  flour  and  the  reserved  flour, 
add  the  stoned  cherries  or  peeled  figs, 
the  latter  cut  in  halves.  Then  proceed  as 
for  "Brioches,"  and  at  the  last  knead- 
ing add  the  orange  flower  water  and 
the  Brandy.  Bake  as  you  would  th» 
"Brioche." 

WINE    OAKK. 

Savarin. 

2  Pounds  of  the  Best  Flour. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Teast. 

1   Cup   of   Sugar. 

1-2  Ounce  of  Salt. 

1  Pound  of  the  Best  Butter. 

12    or    8    Eggs. 

Miake  the  same  dough  as  for  the 
"Brioche,"  and  at  the  last  kneading  place 
It  in  a  cake  pan  lined  with  a  buttered 
paper.  Set  it  to  rise  for  an  hour  longer. 
Then  place  it  in  the  oven,  and  brush  over 
lightly  with  a  beaten  egg.  Let  it  bake 
for  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  according 
to  the  size,  and  then  take  from  the  ovr 
and  soak  in  a  syrup  made  of  one  pound 
of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water,  and  boiled 
to  a  syrup,  and  into  which  you  will  add 
ft  wineglass  of  Brandy  or  Jamaica  Rum. 

These    delicious    cakes    may    be    formed 

Into  small  cakes,  like  the  "Brioche,"  only 

they  must  not  be  joined  together  around 

a    central    cake.     But    the    "Savarin"    is 

nearly  always  baked  in  small  cake  tins. 

BISCUIT. 

Des  Biscuits. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 

1  Heaping  Teaspoonful    of   Lard. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Teast  Powder 
1  Pint  of  Water  or  Sweet  Milk. 

Sift  the  flour  well,  and  add  the  salt 
and  yeast  powder,  rubbing  in  thoroughly 
with  your  hands.  Then  rub  in  the  lard 
rubbing  the  flour  between  your  hands  tilt 
every  portion  is  permeated  by  the  lard, 
and  there  are  no  lumps.  Gradually  add 
water  or  milk,  using  about  a  pint,  more 
or  less,  mixing  In  with  your  hands.  Then 
knead  the  dough  until  smooth  and  elas- 
tic. Form  into  molds,  and  lay  on  the  bis- 
cuit board,  and  roll  out  till  about  a  quar- 
ter   of    an    inch    in    thickness.     Cut    into 


rooind  cakes  with  the  biscuit  cutter.  StlcK 
lightly  with  a  fork  here  and  there  over 
the  surface,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
for  about  five  or  six  minutes.  By  adding 
four  or  five  eggs,  and,  instead  of  the 
lard,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  to  the 
above,  you  will  have  egg  biscuit. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

Biscuit    Battu. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 

1  Teaspoonful  ol  Salt. 

1   Heaping  Teaspoonful   of  Lard. 

1    Pint    of   Milk    or    Water,    or   Half   and 

Half. 

Sift  the  flour  and  add  the  salt,  mixing 
thoroughly.  Then  add  the  la^d,  and 
blend  by  rubbing  through  the  hands  till 
not  a  lump  remains  in  the  flour.  Now 
add  gradually  the  water  or  milk,  or  the 
milk  and  water  combined,  using  half 
and  half  of  each,  and  knead  all  the  whole 
till  the  dough,  which  must  not  be  too 
sort,  but  rather  stiff,  is  formed.  Then 
lay  the  dough  on  a  biscuit  board  on  a 
block,  and  beat  for  a  half  hour  with  a 
rolling  pin.  Knead  lightly,  and  belt 
again  for  a  full  ten  minutes,  till  from 
every  portion  of  the  surface  and  sides 
the  air  bubbles  or  "blisters"  form.  Then 
roll  out  and  cut  into  round  biscuits  with 
the  cutter,  or  square  ones  with  a  kniTe, 
and  stick  here  and  there  with  a  fork. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  al30Ut  ten  or 
tuteen  minutes,  till  a  delicate  brown 
d.bove  and  below. 

Stewed    Biscuits. 

Biscuits  Sautes. 

6   Left-Over  Biscuits. 

1-2  Pound  of  Butter. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  MUk. 

Left-over  biscuits  may  be  thus  utilized. 

Take  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan,  cut  the 

biscuit   in   halves,   lay    in   the   bottom   of 

the  saucepan,  place  a  layer  of  butter  over 

this,  and  then  a  layer  of  biscuit,  and  go 

on  till  all   are  used  up.     Pour  milk  over 

the  wrhole,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  servo 

hot. 

Soda    and    Milk    Biscait. 

Biscuit  au   Lait  et  a  la  Soude. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 

1   Heaping  Teaspoonful   of  Lard. 

2  Cups  of  Sour  Milk. 

1-2   Teaspoonful   of  Soda. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Sift  the  flour  and  add  the  salt  and  lard, 
rubbing  them  in  thoroughly  with  your 
hands,  as  above  indicated.  Then  dis- 
solve the  soda  in  a  little  warm  -water  and 
add  to  the  milk,  and  work  rapidly  and 
lightly.  Then  l^y  on  a  biscuit  board  or  a 
block  of  wood,  and  beat  till  the  surface 
of  the  dough  is  full  of  air  bubbles,  or 
"blisters,"  as  the  old  Creole  cooks  call 
them.  Roll  the  dough  out  to  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  into 
round  biscuits  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  or 
square  ones  with  a  knife.  Stick  here  and 
there  over  the  surface  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  for  about  six  minutes  in  a  quiCK 
oven.  If  too  much  is  used.  It  not  only 
imparts  a  bitter  taste,  but  gives  the  flour 
an  ugly  yellowish  green  color,  that  is 
neither  tempting  nor   inviting. 

The  Graham  Biscuit  is  made  by  usin? 
three  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of 
white  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  Baking 
Powder,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  or  molasses,  and  two  cups  of  luke- 
warm water,  mixing  the  batter  until  It 
reaches  the  eonslstenoy  of  oatmeal  por- 
ridge, and  then  pouring  into  buttered 
tins.     Let    It  rise   till    light,   and   bake   In 


265 


'i  moderate  oven.     Milk  may  be  used  In- 
stead of  water,  if  you  have  it. 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuit. 

Biscuits  de  Patates  Douces. 

6  Potatoes. 

4    Tablespoonfuls    of   Butter   or    Lard. 

1    Pint    of   Millc. 

1-2  Calce  of  Compressed  Yeast. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  White  S'ugar. 
Sufficient  Flour  to  Make  a  Batter. 

Boil  the  pclatoes,  pare  and  mash  them 
very  fine  through  a  ,  sieve.  Scald  the 
milk  and  add  the  salt  and  sugar.  Then 
beat  till  perfectly  smooth.  Add  these  to 
the  potatoes  and  mix  well.  Then  add 
about  half  a  cup  of  flour,  well  sifted  sev- 
eral times,  so  that  it  will  be  very  light. 
"When  the  mixture  grows  tepid,  add  the 
yeast,  which  you  will  have  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  and  beat  well  till  you  have 
a  good  batter.  Then  cover  the  mixture 
with  a  thick  cloth,  and  put  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place.  After  three  or  four  hours, 
when  it  is  well  risen,  add  flour  sufficient 
to  make  a  nice,  soft  dough.  Knead  very 
lightly  and  quickly  for  about  ten  or  fif 
teen  minutes.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
take  up  and  knead  lightly  several  times, 
and  roll  the  dough  out.  Cut  into  little 
biscuits,  place  them  in  a  slightly-buttered 
OT  greased  pan,  about  two  inches  apart, 
let  them  stand  for  half  an  hour  in  a 
warm  place  and  then  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Tea  Blacnlts. 
Biscuits   de    The. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 
1-2  Pint  of  Milk.     3  Eggs. 

2  Ounces   of  Butter   or   Lard. 
1  Teaspoonful   of  Sugar. 

1-4  Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  butter.  Set 
to  cool,  and  then  add  the  salt  and  the 
sugar  and  yeast.  Add  one-half  of  the 
flour.  Mix  well,  and  then  beat  rapidly 
for  about  five  or  ten  minutes.  Cover  up 
the  pan  with  a  cloth,  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  for  about  two  hours.  Then  take 
up,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour.  Make  a  soft  dough, 
and  knead  lightly  but  constantly  for 
about  twenty  minutes.  If  the  dough  l9 
then  elastic,  form  into  loaves  and  set  to 
rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  it  has  in- 
creased to  twice  Its  bulk,  which  will  be 
In  about  two  hours^  pinch  off  into  small 
pieces  about  half  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg, 
and  mold  into  a  small  ball.  Place  all  in 
a  pan  about  two  inches  apart,  and  cover 
again  for  half  an  hour.  Then  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  They  must  be  baked  to  a  nice 
brown. 

Soda  Orackers. 

Biscuits  de  Soda. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 

3  Tablespoonfuls    of   Butter. 

2  Cups  of  Sweet  Milk  or  Water. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Soda, 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Sift  the  flour  several  times  and  add  the 
salt.  Mix  well.  Then  rub  In  the  butter 
thoroughly.  Add  the  soda,  which  you 
will  have  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  the  milk,  and  mix  all  well  to- 
gether. Then  knead  well  and  put  upon 
the  biscuit  board  and  beat  with  a  rolling 
pin  for  upwards  of  half  an  hour,  fre- 
quently rolling  the  dough  over,  and 
beating  hard  until  the  air  bubbles  cover 
every  part,  above  and  below.    Then  roll 


out  into  a  nice  square  even  sheet  of 
dough,  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  and  cut  into  nice  square  cakes. 
Stick  through  and  through  with  a  fork 
here  and  there  over  the  surface  in  even 
rows,  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven 
till  they  are  hard  and  crisp,  uut  not 
brown.  Then  hang  in  a  muslin  bag  for 
about  two  days  to  thoroughly  dry,  and 
they  are  ready  to  be  served. 

WAFERS. 

Gaufres. 

1  Pint  of  Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   S'alt. 

1-2  Pint  of  Sweet  Milk. 

Sift    the     flour     very,     very     fine,     and 
then  add  the  salt,  and  mix  well.     Add  tho 
milk   and   make   into   a   nice,  rather  stiff 
dough.     Place    on    a    biscuit    board    and 
beat  for  fully  a  half  hour,  and  then  turn 
the  dough  over  and  beat  for  fifteen  min- 
utes more,  the  lightness  depending  upon 
the    beating.     Roll    them    out    into    cakes 
that  are  almost  transparent  in  thinness, 
but  which   can  also   be   handled  without 
losing  their  shape.     Lay  them   gently   in 
the  pan,  or  better  still,  roll  them  out  on 
a  baking  sheet  which  has  been  sprinkled 
with    flour;    then    they    will    not    require 
handling.     Bake  quickly  in  a  hot  oven. 
SHOBT    CAKE. 
Gateau    de    Pate    au    Beurre. 
1  Pound  of  Flour. 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  or  2  of  Lard, 

1-2   Teaspoonful   of  Salt. 

A  Pinch  of  Soda,   or  1-2  Teaspoonful   of 

Teast  Powder. 

Sift  the  flour  and  yeast  powder  togeth- 
er, if  you  desire  it  instead  of  soda.  Other- 
wise sift  the  flour,  add  the  salt,  and  mil 
the  lard  or  butter  thoroughly  together," 
rubbing  between  your  hands  till  there  Is 
not  a  lump  left.  Then  add  sufficient 
tepid  water  to  make  a  nice,  rather  stiff 
dough.  Roll  out  into  a  thin  sheet,  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  criss-cross  with 
a  knife  lightly  in  diamond  shapes.  Set 
in  the  oven  and  bake  for  about  fifteen 
minutes  to  a  light  brown.  This  is  brought 
to  the  table  split  open  and  buttered,  and 
eaten  while  hot. 

The  short  cake  for  fruits  is  made  in 
exactly  the  same  manner,  only  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter  is  used,  and  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  instead  of  water 
sour  milk  or  buttermilk  is  used  to  mix. 
if  you  use  soda,  and  sweet  milk  If  you 
use  yeast  powder.  This  dough  is  divided 
In  two,  one  for  the  upper,  and  the  other 
for  the  lower  crust,  and  is  sprinkle^l 
thickly  between  with  such  fruits  as 
strawberries,  raspberries,  etc.  The  dougn 
should  be  soft  and  crisp. 

OOBN   BREAD. 

Pain  de  Mais. 
It  has  been  said,  and  justly,  that  th<» 
only  people  who  know  how  to  make  corn 
bread  are  the  Southern  people,  and  that 
the  further  you  go  south  of  Mason  and 
Dixon's  line  the  better  the  corn  bread, 
corn  cakes,  corn  muffins,  that  will  be 
offered  you.  Throughout  Louisiana  tie 
dainty  "Egg  Breads,"  Corn  Cakes,  Muf- 
fins, "Crackling  Bread,"  etc.,  are  tho 
gracious  offerings  that  typical  Creole 
planters  place  before  the  guests  who 
have  been  invited  to  partake  of  morn- 
ing hospitality.  As  In  these  ancient 
Southern  manors,  so  also  is  the  olden 
Creole  homes  of  New  Orleans.  The  Cre- 
ole planters  of  the  ancient  regime  had 
their  plantation  and  city  homes,  and  life 


266 


gravitated  between  tlie  one  and  the  other 
with  pleasing  and  infinite  variety.  And 
so  the  cookery  of  the  Creole  New  Orleans 
is  the  cookery  of  Creole  Louisiana,  and 
in  mis  cookery  Corn  Bread  occupies, 
with  "Potato,"  "Hominy,"  "Rice"  and 
"Wheat  Breaas,"  its  unique  and  inter- 
esting  place. 

It  may  be  added  here  that  the  Creoles 
like  all  true  Southerners,  never  use  the 
yellow  corn  meal  for  making  bread,  but 
always  the  whitest  and  best  meal.  In  the 
South  the  yellow  meal  is  only  used  to 
teed  cliickens  and  cattle. 

Plain    Corn    Bread. 
Pain   de   Mais. 

1  Quart  of  the  Finest  Indian  Meal. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

A     Heaping    Tablespoonful     of     Lard     or 

Butter. 

1   Pint  of   Water. 

Pour  just  enough  boiling  water  over 
the  meal  to  scald  it  through  and  through, 
without  making  a  dough  or  batter.  Stir 
it  well,  and  let  it  grow  tepid.  It  will  then 
be  quite  dry.  Add  a  melted  teaspoonful 
ot  lard  or  butter.  Mix  this  well,  and  add 
water,  and  beat  till  the  batter  is  very 
smooth.  Dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
in  a  little  boiling  water,  and  add  to  the 
mixture,  and  grease  a  baking  pan.  Turn 
the  mixture  in  and  bake  in  a  quick  ovea 
for  about  thirty-five  minutes,  till  a 
goiden  brown.  Take  the  bread  from  the 
pan  whole,  and  place  on  a  hot  platter, 
and  serve,  cutting  it  at  the  table  into 
slices  about  two  inches  long  and  three 
wide,  and  serving  with  butter. 
Egg  Corn  Bread. 
Pain  de  Mais  aux   Oeufs. 

1  Quart  of  Cornmeal.    4  Eggs. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  or  Lard. 

1  Pint   of  Milk    (Buttermilk   if  Possibloi. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Scald  the  meal  with  boiling  water  suf- 
ficient to  melt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  very,  very  light.  Add  the  corn  meal 
and  melted  butter,  and  the  salt,  and  beat 
till  very  light,  moistening  with  the  miU^. 
Then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat'in 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  all  well  together. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  or  greased  pan,  or 
Into  shallow  tins,  and  bake  quickly.  This 
is  the  real  Creole  Corn  Bread,  so  highly 
-praised  by  all  tourists  through  Louisiana. 
'The  secret  of  the  exquisite  flavor  depends 
Tipon  the  proper  beating  of  the  eggs,  as 
■well  as  on  the  rising  of  the  com  bread 
Itself.  If  the  eggs  are  well  beaten,  the 
corn  bread  will  need  neither  soda  nor 
yeast  to  make  it  rise  properly.  Some  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  when  they  wish 
to  have  sweetened  corn  bread.  Corn 
bread,  to  be  delicious,  should  always  be 
served  hot  aJid  generously  buttered. 

Nonpareil  Com  Bread. 

Pain   de   Mais   Nonpariel. 

2  Cups  of  Indian  Meal. 

1  Cup   of  Flour.     3  Eggs. 

2  1-2  Cups  of  Sweet  Milk. 
1  Tablespoonful   of   Lard. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of    Sugar    (if    Desired). 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  very,  very  light,  the 
whites  and  yolks  separately.  Melt  the 
lard  or  butter,  and  sift  the  Baking  Pow  - 
der  into  the  sifted  meal  end  flour.  S  .ir 
this  into  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
milk.  Blend  thoroughly.  Add  the  whites, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  well  to- 
gether,   and    bake    quickly    and    steadily 


in   a   quick   oven   for  about   a   half  hour. 
Serve  hot,  with  butter. 

Risen   Corn  Bread. 
Pain  de  Mais  au   Levain. 

1   Quart   of   Cornmeal. 
1  Pint  of  Milk  or  Water.     3  Eggs. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Teast. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  use  boiling 
water  or  milk  to  blend  the  cornmeal,  eg^3 
and  salt  together.  Then  add  the  yeasit, 
which  you  will  have  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water.  Set  the  bread  to  rise  for  thres 
or  four  hours,  and  then  bake  in  tins  or 
in  a  greased  pan,  like  a  pone  of  bread, 
or  make  it  into  loaves. 

Again,  the  risen  corn  bread  can  be 
made  much  more  quickly  by  simply  add- 
ing two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast  powder 
to  the  batter,  or  a  half  teaspoonfuA  of 
soda,  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  milk.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  bake  in  buttered  tins  or 
a  pan.  Always  scald  the  meal  with  boil- 
ing   water    first. 

Steamed    Corn   Bread. 

Pain  de  Mais  a  la  Vapeur. 

1   Cup    of    Fllour. 
1  Cup  of  Louisiana  Molasses. 

2  Cups  of  Sweet  Milk. 

2   Teaspoonfuls    of   Baking  Powder. 

Scald  the  meal.  Beat  the  eggs  very 
light,  and  beat  the  milk  into  them  till 
very  light.  Add  the  molasses  and  yeast 
powder,  and  blend  well.  Then  add  the 
flour,  mixing  and  beating  till  thoroughly 
blended.  A  half  cup  of  sugar  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  molasses.  Tie  in  a 
cloth,  as  you  would  roll  a  pudding,  and 
place  in  a  steamer,  on  top  of  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  and  cover  first  with  a  close 
cloth,  and  then  with  the  steamer  cover, 
and  steam  for  three  hours.  Then  turn 
into  a  hot  dish,  and  eat  as  a  plain  des- 
sert, with  a  Brandy  or  Hard  or  Cream 
Sauce.     (See  Pudding  Sauces.) 

Cornmeal    Pone, 

Pain  de  Mais  Creole. 

1  Quart  of  the  Finest  Indian  Meal. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

A    Heaping    Teaspoonful    of   Lard    or 

Butter. 

1  Pint  of  Sour  Milk  or  Buttermilk. 

3  Eggs. 

Pour  Just  enough  boiling  water  over 
the  meal  to  scald  it  through  and  through, 
without  making  a  dough  or  batter.  Stir 
it  well,  and  let  it  grow  tepid.  It  will  be 
then  quite  dry.  Beat  two  eggs  very  light, 
and  add  to  the  meal,  and  add  a  melted 
tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter.  Mix  thiS 
well,  and  add  the  milk  or  buttermilk,  and 
beat  till  the  batter  is  very  smooth.  Dis- 
solve one  teaspoonful  of  soda  In  a  little 
boiling  water,  and  add  to  the  mixture, 
and  grease  a  baking  pan.  Turn  the  mix- 
ture in  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for 
about  thirty-five  minutes,  till  a  golden 
brown.  Take  the  pone  from  the  pan 
whole,  and  place  on  a  hot  platter,  and 
serve,  cutting  it  at  the  table  into  slices 
about  three  Inches  long  and  two  wide, 
and  serving  with  butter. 

A  Plain  Pone  may  be  made  by  uslns 
hot  water  and  lard,  instead  of  milk  and 
butter,  making  a  thick  dough,  and  form 
into  loaves  and  bake.  But  It  bears  no 
comparison  to  the  real  Oeole  Pone,  ai 
made  above.  Nevertheless,  this  is  a  very 
good  and  nutritious  white  corn  bread. 
In  the  rural  districts  of  Louisiana  the 
lard  is  often  omitted,  and  the  pone  made 
simply  of  the  hot  water  and  cornmeal. 


267 


Corn  Dodgrers. 

Petits  Pain  de  Mais. 

1  Quart  of  Indian  Meal. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Lard. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Scald  the  meal  with  boiling  water.  Add 
the  melted  lard  and  the  salt.  Use  suffi- 
cient boiling  water  to  make  a  very  stiff 
batter  or  so'ft  dough.  Then  take  up  a 
handful  of  the  mixture,  and  mold  it  with 
your  hands  into  oval  mounds,  tossing  the 
cake  of  dough  lightly  between  your  hands 
in  a  dexterous  manner,  and  leaving  the 
impression  of  your  fingers  across.  Bake 
the  pones  thus  formed  in  a  quick  oven. 
They  may  be  served  at  dinner,  and  a;-e 
delicious  when  properly  made. 

Ash    Cake. 

Petits  Gateaux  Cuits  dans  la  Cendre. 

1  Quart  of  Indian  Meal. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  I^rd. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

This  is  a  real  old  Southern  darky  cake. 
The  ancient  Creole  negroes  of  Louisiana 
excelled  in  making  and  baking  it,  so  that 
no  ashes  clung  to  the  clean  white  cake. 
An  ash  cake,  as  the  name  suggests,  is 
always  baked  in  the  ashes,  on  the  open 
hearth,  and  wood  ashes  must  be  used. 
The  darkies  had  a  roaring  fire  and  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  hot  ashes.  They 
swept  a  clean  place  on  the  hearth  and 
drew  out  a  pile  of  hot  ashes  and  placed 
the  pone  of  bread,  shaped  like  the  Com 
Dodgers,  on  top  of  the  ashes.  This  was 
covered  with  hot  ashes,  and  let  bake  to 
a  nice  brown.  Then  the  cake  was  drawn 
out  of  the  ashes,  wiped  clean  with  a  cloth 
till  every  particle  of  ashes  that  adhered 
in  'the  crevices  disappeared,  and  served 
hot  with  butter  or  molasses. 

Again,  the  old  Creole  darkies  wrap 
the  cake  in  a  layer  of  fig  leaves,  to  bake 
more  neatly,  but  the  real  Ash  Cake  is 
baked  as  above. 

Fried   Corn   Cakes. 
Gateau  de  Mais  Frits. 

1   Quart   of  Indian  Meal. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Make  the  dough  as  above,  adding.  If 
you  wish,  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  milk  In- 
stead of  water.  Beat  till  very  light,  and 
drop  the  stiff  batter  in  large  spoonfuls 
on  a  frying  pan  that  you  will  have 
greased  well  with  fat  bacon  skin.  These 
cakes  are  very  delicious  when  properly 
made.  They  must  be  fried  to  a  golden 
brown.  After  each  cake  is  taken  from 
the  skillet,  the  latter  must  be  wiped  off 
and  regreased  with  the  fat  bacon  before 
putting  the  next  cake  upon  it.  Serve 
hot  at  breakfast  or  dinner. 
HOECAKE. 
Gateau  a  la  Houe. 

1   Pint   of   Flour. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Boiling  Water   Sufficient  to  Make  a. 

Batter. 

These  cakes  may  be  baked  on  a  grid- 
dle, just  as  you  would  a  griddle  cake, 
and  served  with  butter.  But  the  old 
Southern  cooks,  of  which  the  Louisiana 
Creole  plantation  cooks  were  not  the 
least,  always  baked  these  cakes  on  a  hoe 
on  hot  coals  in  front  of  a  wood  fire,  right 
out  in  the  open  air,  before  their  cabin 
doors,  or  in  their  cabins  before  the  roar- 
ing hearth  fire.  Hence  the  name  Hoe- 
cake.  The  Hoecake  was  made  of  flour, 
with  sufficient  water  to  moisten  It  well. 


A  teaspoonful  of  butter  or  lard  was 
added. 

The  term  Hoecake,  so  extensively  used 
by  the  field  hands,  was  taken  up  by  mas- 
ters and  mistresses,  and  applied  to  a  bis- 
cuit bread  made  of  one  pint  of  flour, 
one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
yeast  powder,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  but- 
ter or  one  of  lard,  kneaded  well  to- 
gether, rolled  out  with  a  rolling  pin,  and 
cut  criss-cross,  like  diamonds,  with  a 
knife,  and  baked  in  the  oven. 

This  delightful  refinement  of  the  an- 
cient Hoecake  is  served  at  dinner  with  a. 
glass  of  milk  or  cream,  as  an  accompani- 
ment to  Compotes  of  Fruits. 

JOHNNY    CAKE. 

11-2   Pints    of   Indian   Meal.    3   Eggs 
A   Pint   of  Sweet   Milk   or   Buttermilk   or 

Hot  Water. 

2  Tablespoonfuls   of  Melted   Butter,   or  1 

of   Lard. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Soda   (May  be 

Omitted). 

Beat  the  eggs  till  very  light,  and  add 
the  cornmeal,  and  beat  till  light.  Add 
the  melted  butter  and  the  milk  or  water. 
If  buttermilk  is  used,  you  may  use  the 
soda,  dissolving  it  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  boiling  water.  Do  not  use  the  soda 
with  the  sweet  milk.  Make  a  dough  or 
batter  thick  enough  to  be  spread  into 
cakes  a  half  inch  in  thickness  and  about 
five  inches  in  diameter,  the  cakes,  of 
course,  being  formed  round.  Place  in 
buttered  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  about  a  half  hour,  frequently 
brushing  across  while  baking  with  melt- 
ed butter.  Do  this  about  four  or  five 
times. 

In  the  olden  days,  Johnny  Cake  was 
baked  on  a  clean,  sweet  board,  before 
a  hot  coal  fire.  The  board  had  to  be 
made  of  oak  wood.  The  cake  was  formed 
and  placed  on  the  board,  and  the  board 
was  inclined  at  an  angle  before  the  hot 
coal  fire,  with  a  piece  of  wood  or  a  flat- 
iron  to  hold  it  up,  and  the  cake  "was 
placed  at  such  an  angle  that  it  could 
harden  without  slipping  off.  WTien  quite 
hard  it  was  stood  upright  and  baked  to 
a  nice,  crisp  brown  on  both  sides,  turning 
as  needed,  and  frequently  basting  with 
butter.  The  Johnny  Cake  was  served  hot 
for  lunch  or  tea,  being  sent  to  the  table 
hot,  split  and  buttered,  or  served  with 
fresh,  sweet  butter  and  buttermilk. 

CRACKLING    BREAD. 

Gratons. 

Cracklings  are  the  bits  of  fat  meat 
left  after  all  the  lard  has  been  rendered 
from  the  fat  pork.  They  are  eaten  ex- 
tensively throughout  rural  Creole  Lou- 
isiana. The  fat  pork  is  cut  into  small 
bits,  about  the  size  of  a  man's  hand, 
and  then  fried  till  every  bit  of  grease 
has  been  extracted.  This  grease  is  then 
clarified  and  used  as  lard.  The  cracklings 
are  saved,  and  eaten  from  time  to  time 
within  the  next  two  weeks,  simply  beln.5 
warmed  over  again.  Again,  they  may  ba 
made  at  any  time  by  frying  small  bits  of 
fat  pork.  These  cracklings,  to  use  he 
country  parlance,  "Go  very  well  witn 
Corn  Bread,"  and  are  not  only  eaten  with 
it  "au  naturel,"  but  also  made  into  that 
typical  rural  bread  of  the  country  par- 
ishes, "Crackling  Bread,"  or  "Gratons. ' 

To  make  this,  take  one  pint  of  meal,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  cold  water 
enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Mix  the 
cracklings,  already  fried,  of  course,  in  a 
batter,  and  pour  a  large  tablespoonful  at 
a  time  on  a  griddle.  Fry  to  a  golden 
brown.     Crackling    bread    is    very    crisp. 


268 


and  if  properly  made  Is  a  very  palatable 
bread,  requiring  no  butter  or  other  ac- 
companiment to  make  it  toothsome. 

MUFFINS. 

Galettes. 

No  breakfast  cake  admits  of  greater 
variety  than  the  Muffin.  We  have  Plain 
Muffins,  Egg  Muffins,  Cornmeal  Muffins, 
Rice,  Hcminy  and  Cream  Muffins,  besides 
several  fancy  Muffins,  and  that  de- 
licious breakfast  accompaniment,  "Muffin 
Bread." 

Muffin  Bread. 

Pain   Leve  a  la  Pate   de   Galette. 

3   Cups   of   Flour. 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 

1-2    Cake    of    Compressed    Teast. 

4  Eggs.     1-4  Pound  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  butter. 
When  it  grows  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast, 
dissolved  in  about  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  warm  water.  Add  the  salt  and  floxir. 
and  beat  well  tor  about  ten  minutes. 
Then  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night. 
In  the  morning  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
well,  and  then  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth; 
add  the  yolks  and  beat  well,  and  then 
add  the  whites,  and  mix  all  thoroughly. 
Beat  till  very  light,  let  it  stand  for  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  bake  in 
a  buttered  pan  for  about  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Bread    Muffins. 

Galettes   de  Pain. 

Left-over  bread  may  be  utilized  in  this 
way: 

2   Pints   of    Stale   Bread   Crumbs. 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 
1-2  Cup  of  Sifted  Flour.    2  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful    of    Melted    Butter. 
2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

Soak  the  stale  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk 
for  a  half  hour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  th.j 
eggs  till  very  light,  and  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
to  the  bread,  and  then  pour  in  the  melted 
gutter,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  th9 
flour,  into  which  you  will  have  sifted  the 
baMng  powder,  and  beat  well.  Liastl>, 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  put  the 
muffins  into  the  muffin  rings  or  gem 
pans,  and  bake  for  about  a  half  hour  in 
a  quick  oven. 

Cornmeal  Muffins. 

Galettes  de  Plarlne  de  Mais. 

2  Cups  of  Cornmeal. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sifted  Flour.     2  Eggs. 

1 1-2  Cups   of  Buttermilk  or  Sweet  Milk. 

2  Spoonfuls  of  Butter. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1-4   Teaspoonful   of   Salt. 

S'cald  the  meal.  Scald  the  milk,  and 
add  the  butter.  When  lukewarm  add  to 
the  cornmeal  and  beat  well.  Add  tha 
well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat 
well.  Add  the  flour,  into  which  the 
yeast  powder  must  previously  be  sifted. 
Mix  well  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  steadily  for 
about  ten  minutes,  and  then  pour  into 
greased  muffin  rings  or  gem  pans,  and 
bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
If  buttermilk  Is  used,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

In  making  Muffins,  if  milk  Is  not  avail- 
able, use  lukewarm  water,  or  half  milk 
and  half  water.  If  possible. 


Cream    Muffins. 

Galettes    a-    la   Creme. 

1    Pint    of    Cream. 

1  Pint  of  Flour.     3  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1 1-2   Teaspoonfuls    of   Yeast   Powder. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs 

separately.     Then  add  the  cream  and  sau, 

and  finally  the  flour,  into  which  you  will 

have    blended     the    yeast    powder.    Beat 

well  and  fill  the  muffin  ring  or  gem  pans 

one-half  full.     Place  in  a  quick  oven  and 

bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

Egg   Muffins. 

Galettes  aux  Oeufs. 
3  Cups  of  Flour. 
1  Pint  of  Milk. 
1-4  Cake  of  Compressed  Teast,  or  2  Tea- 
spoonfuls of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Large  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Prepare  the  Muffin  batter  as  above, 
ind  set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing prepare  the  eggs  as  above  indicated. 
Blend  and  beat  till  light.  Then  turn  the 
Tiuffin  batter  into  greased  muffin  rings, 
and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot 
:)ven.     The  Muffins  must  be  eaten  hot. 

Graham  Muffins  are  made  in  exactly 
:he  same  manner,  only  the  Graham  flour 
iH  used  instead.  Sometimes  the  Graham 
flour  is  mixed  with  the  plain  flour  in  the 
proportion  of  two  cups  of  the  former  tj 
one  of  the  latter.  In  Plain  Muffins  tha 
eggs  are  omitted. 

Hominy   Muffins. 

Galettes  de  Saccamite. 

2  Cups  of  Fine  Hominy.    3  Eggs. 

1-2  Cup  of  Melted  Butter. 

3  Cups  of  Fresh  Milk  or  Sour  Milk. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  White  Sugar. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt. 

L    Teaspoonful    of   Soda,    if   Sour  Milk   is 

Used. 

3-4  Cup   of  Flour. 

Mash  the  hominy  through  a  sieve,  and 
then  stir  in  the  milk,  salt,  yeast  powder 
and  sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  very  light,  and  then  the  flour, 
well  sifted.  Lastly,  add  the  whites  of 
llie  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

If  buttermilk   is   used,   add   a  half  tea- 
spoonful   of    soda,    instead    of    the    yeast 
powder.  These  muffins  may  also  be  made 
out  of  the  left-over  cornmeal. 
Qneen    Muffins. 
Galettes  a  la  Relne. 
1  Cup  of  Sugar. 
3  Cups  of  Flour.     3  Eggs. 
1  Pint  of  Sweet  Milk. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Ilfelted  Butter. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  or  1-2 
Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 
If  yeast  is  used,  set  the  batter  to  rise 
over  night,  as  In  Egg  Muffins,  and  then 
proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner,  add- 
ing  the   eggs   In   the   morning.     Beat  the 
eggs  separately  till  very  light,  add  to  the 
batter,  and  pour  into  muffin  rings  or  gem 
pans  and  let  the  mixture  rise  a  half  hour 
longer.    Then    bake    for    twenty    minutes 
in    a    quick    oven.     If    yeast    powder    is 
used,    beat    the   yolks    of   the   eggs   to   a 
cream,  add  the  scalded  milk  and  butter, 
and  add   the   flour.    Beat  till   very  light, 
and    add    the    yeast    powder,    and    finally 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.    Turn    into    gem    pans    or    muffin 
rings,  and  hake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a 
hot    oven. 


269 


Quick    Mnfflng. 

Galettes  a.  la  Vitesae.  , 

3   Cups   of  Flour. 
1  Pint  of  Milk. 
1-4  Cake  of  Compressed  Yeast,  or  2  Tea- 
spoonfuls    of    Baking    Powder. 
1  Large  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  add  the  butter. 
When  it  grows  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast, 
the  flour  and  salt,  and  beat  all  well  for 
about  ten  minutes.  Then  set  the  bowl 
in  a  warm  place,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and 
let  the  mixture  rise  for  about  two  hours. 
When  very  light,  beat  well  again,  and 
add  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Turn  Into 
muffin  rings  or  gem  pans,  and  let  them 
rise  a  half  hour  longer.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  place  them  in  the  oven  and 
bake  for  about  twenty  minutes.  If  yea.st 
powder  is  used,  beat  into  the  batter,  and 
proceed  to  bake  immediately.  The  Muf- 
fins may  be  baked  in  muffins  rings,  on  a 
griddle,  or  as  above  indicated. 
Bice  Mnffins. 
Galettes  de  Riz. 

2  Cups  of  Boiled  Rice. 

1  Cup  of  Flour.     3  Eggs. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Lard  or  Butter. 

2   Tablespoonfuls    of    Sugar    (May   be 

omitted.) 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Mash    the    rice    through    a    close    sieve 

and  beat  the  yolks  very  light,   and  add. 

Add   the   milk   and  butter,   and   then   sil't 

in    the   flour   and    half   a   teaspoonful   of 

baking  powder.     Add  the  sugar  and  the 

whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Add  the  salt,  and  bake  in  muffin  rings 

in    a    quick    oven,    for    about    fifteen    or 

twenty  minutes. 

GEMS. 

Petits  Bijoux. 
Prepare  the  same  batter  as  for  Quick 
Muffins.  Pour  into  gem  pans,  and  bake 
for  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Graham 
Gems  are  made  by  using  two  cups  of 
Graham  meal  to  one  cup  of  boiled  rice 
or  cornmeal,  or  two  cups  of  Graham 
flour  to  one  of  wheat  flour,  and  the  other 
ingredients  in  the  same  proportion  as  for 
Quick  Muffins. 

Corn    Gems. 
Petits  Bijoux  a  la  Blarine  de  Mais. 
2   Cups   of  Cornmeal. 
1  Cup  of  Flour. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
4  Eggs.     1  Pint  of  Sweet  Milk. 
2   Tablespoonfuls   of  Baking  Powder. 
Boil   one-half   of  the  milk  and  pour  it 
over   the    cornmeal.    Add    the    butter    in- 
stantly, and  stir  well.     When  thoroughly 
mixed  add  the   cold  milk   and  the  well- 
beaten  yolks   of  the  eggs.    Add  the  aa,U 
and  then  the  flour.  Into  which  you  wt'.l 
have  sifted  the  baking  powder.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  then  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.    Pour  into 
greased  or  buttered  gem  pans,  and  bake 
about  a  half  hour  in  a  hot  oven.    Always 
remember  to  fill  the  pans  only  half  full, 
leaving  room  for  the  batter  to  rise. 
CBUMPEXS. 
Emietes. 
1  Pint  of  Milk. 
3  Cups  of  Flour. 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 
1-2   Cake    of   Compressed   Teast. 
1   Tablespoonful   of  Salt. 
Scald   the    milk    and    set   to    cool.    Add 
the  salt,  and  gradually  beat  in  the  flour. 
Beat  till  very  smooth,  and  add  the  yeast. 


Beat  continuously  for  ten  minutes  and 
then  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  After 
several  hours  beat  well  again,  and  add 
the  melted  butter.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
then  turn  into  greased  muffin  rings  and 
bake  till  a  beautiful  brown,  turning  first 
on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  Send 
to  the  table  very  hot.  Break  open  with 
your  fingers,  and  butter  nicely. 

SALLiY  LUNN. 

Pain  a  la  Vielle  Tante  Zoe. 
Sally    Lunn   is   nothing   more   than   the 
old  breakfast  dish  known  to  the  Creole*^ 
for  generations   as   "Pain   a   la   Vielle  de 
Tante  Zoe."     Take 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 

11-2   Pints    of   Flour. 

1-2   Cupful    of   Butter. 

4   Eggs.    1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1-4  Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 

Warm  the  butter  in  a  pint  of  milk  till 
the  milk  reaches  the  boiling  point.  D-> 
not  let  it  boil.  Simply  scald.  Then  aid 
the  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Let  it  cool.  When  tepid  add  the  flour, 
well  sifted,  and  beat  thoroughly  into  the 
mixture.  Lastly  add  the  yeast,  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  milk  or  water.  Beat  it  con- 
tinuously for  at  least  five  minutes.  Then, 
when  the  batter  begins  to  break  into 
blisters,  cover  it  and  set  to  rise  for  the 
night.  In  the  morning  add  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  till  very  light,  and  the 
whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  care- 
fully, and  dissolve  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
soda  in  the  mixture,  if  it  seems  anyway 
sour.  Turn  the  whole  into  a  shallow  but- 
tered dish,  and  set  to  rise  for  fifteen  min- 
utes longer.  Bake  about  twenty  or 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderateJy 
quick  oven,  till  it  is  a  light  brown. 

This  cake,  like  all  muffin  batter,  should 
not  be  cut  with  a  knife,  but  torn  apart 
with  your  hands.  It  cut,  all  muffin  bat- 
ter at  once  becomes  heavy.  The  cake 
may  be  also  made  much  more  quickly 
by  mixing  in  the  morning,  using  the 
above  ingredients,  only  adding  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  instead  of 
the  yeast.  Beat  quickly  and  thoroughly, 
and  turn  into  a  buttered  tin,  and  set  to 
bake  at  once.  Send  to  the  table  hot,  and 
eat  with  a  generous  endowment  of  but- 
ter. 

WAFFLES. 

Gaufres. 

Waffles  are  delightful  accompanimentii 
of  breakfast,  lunch  or  tea,  and  may  be 
made  of  flour,  rice,  hominy  or  cornmeal. 
In  all  recipes  for  Waffles,  if  you  have 
not  the  milk,  substitute  lukewarm  water, 
and  if  you  have  no  butter,  use  instead  a 
half  spoon  of  lard,  but  certainly  the  taste 
of  the  W^affles  is  much  improved  by  the 
butter  and  milk,  especially  the  butter. 
Half  milk  and  half  -water,  boiled  and 
grown  tepid,  may  also  be  used  in  the 
proportions  indicated  in  the  recipes. 

Plain    Waffles. 

Gaufres   de   Froment. 

3  Cups   of  Flour. 
2  Eggs.    2  Cups  of  Milk. 
1 1-2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 
1  Large  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 
Sift  the  flour  and  salt  and  baking  pow- 
der together.    Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egs 
till  very  light.    Add  the  melted  butter  to 
the   milk,   which   should   be   scalded   and 
grown   lukewarm,    and    then    mix    in   the 
whites   of  the   eggs.    Now  add  the   flour 
gradually,    making   a   nice,   light   batter. 


270 


If  it  appears  at  all  stiff,  add  a  little  mora 
milk.  Have  your  waffle  irons  readv, 
thoroughly  heated.  Have  at  hand  a  small 
brush  or  a  stick  with  a  piece  of  clean, 
fringed  cloth  wrapped  around  the  end. 
Dip  this  in  a  little  melted  lard,  and  brush 
over  the  interior  of  the  irons,  till  every 
part  is  greased.  Pour  the  batter  into  a 
pitcher,  so  that  you  may  the  more  easily 
fill  the  irons.  Fill  until  the  elevations 
are  lightly  covered,  and  then  close  tl'.e 
irons  quickly  and  turn  it  over.  Bake  the 
Waffle  about  two  minutes,  or  till  a  nice, 
delicate  brown.  Carefully  remove  from 
the  irons,  place  in  a  hot  plate  or  waifle 
dish  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  pro- 
ceed with  the  baking.  Send  to  the  table 
very  hot. 

Cornmeal  Waffles. 

Gaufres    de    Farlne    de    Mais. 

2   Cups   of    Cornmeal. 

1  Cup  of  Flour.    3  Eggs. 

1  Pint  of  Milk. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 
1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Soda,  Dissolved  in  Hot 

Watei*. 
1  Teaspoonful   of  Salt. 

Scald  the  milk  and  then  add  the  wcU- 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Add  the  milk 
and  the  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water,  and  then  add  the  melted  butter 
and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Now  add  the  flour,  gradually 
making  a  nice  batter,  not  too  thick,  nor 
yet  too  thin.  Beat  till  all  is  very  smooth 
and  proceed  to  bake  as  above. 

Rice  may  be  substituted  for  the  flour. 
If  you  desire  rice  and  cornmeal  muffins; 
add  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  lu 
bind. 

Waffles  of  left-over  grits  may  be  pro- 
pared  by  adding  one  cup  of  grits  to  two 
of  flour,  and  proceeding  as  aibove. 

Potato    Waffles. 

Gaufres  de  Pommes  de  Terre. 

1  Pint  of  Irish  Potatoes. 
4    Eggs.    1   Pint    of   Flour. 

11-2  Pints  of  Milk. 
1-2  Cake  of  Compressed  Yeast. 

Mash  the  boiled,  left-over  potatoes 
through  a  sieve,  and  then  add  the  milk 
and  the  sifted  flour.  Add  the  yeast, 
which  you  will  have  dissolved  in  a  litUa 
warm  water,  and  set  the  whole  to  rise 
for  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
add  the  eggs,  beaten  separately,  and  mix 
well.  Set  to  rise  again  for  a  half  hour, 
till  light,  and  then  proceed  to  bake  as  In 
Plain  Waffles. 

Sweet    Potato    Waffles. 

Gaufres    de   Patates   Douces. 

2  Cups  of  Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

1  Cup    of   Melted   Butter. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.    2  Eggs. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour. 

Mash  the  potatoes  through  a  sieve,  and 
add  the  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Mix 
well,  and  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  tli: 
very  light.  Then  add  the  butter  and  beat 
again,  and  add  the  milk,  mixing  thor- 
oughly. Now  add  the  flour,  using  suffi- 
cient to  make  a  thin  batter  that  will 
bind  the  potatoes.  Grease  the  waffls 
irons  well,  and  proceed  to  bake  as  above 
Indicated.  Properly  made,  these  waffles 
are  delicious.  Left-over  potatoes  may 
be  thus  utilized.  The  eggs  may  be. 
omitted. 


Rice  Waffles. 

Gaufres    de    Riz. 

1  Cup  of  Boiled  Rice. 

1 1-2  Pints  of  Milk.     2  Eggs.      _ 

1  Cup  of  Flour  or  2  Cups  of  Rice  Flour. 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 

Mash  the  rice  through  a  sieve.  Beat  the 
yolks  light,  and  add,  and  then  add  ths 
salt,  the  baking  powder  and  the  milk. 
Beat  well,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Now  add  the  rice 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  proceed 
to  bake  as  above.  Be  careful  to  grease 
the  irons  very  well,  so  that  the  rice  may 
not  adhere.  If  white  flour,  rather  thaa 
the  rice  flour,  is  used,  use  in  proportioa 
iwo  cups  of  boiled  rice,  instead  of  one. 
BIsen  Waffles. 
Gaufres  au  Levain. 

1  Quart  of  Flour. 

1 1-2  Quarts  of  Milk. 

1-2  Cake  of  Compressed  Yeast. 

3    Eggs. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butter. 

1  Tablespoonful   of  Salt. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  butter,  and  let 
It  grow  tepid.  Sift  the  flour  and  salt 
together,  and  add  the  milk  and  butter, 
and  finally  the  yeast.  Beat  all  contin- 
uously for  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  then 
cover  well  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for 
about  two  hours.  Beat  the  whites  and 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately,  and  add 
first  the  yolks  to  the  batter,  after  It  hajj 
risen  well,  and  then  add  the  whites.  Beat 
m  thoroughly,  and  set  to  rise  again  for 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  beat 
lightly  and  pour  Into  a  pitcher.  Prepare 
the  waffle  irons  as  indicated  above,  and 
proceed  to  bake  in  the  same  manner. 

These  Risen  Waffles  may  also  be  made 
by  mixing  the  flour,  milk  and  salt  and 
yeast  together,  and  setting  to  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  the  melted 
butter  and  the  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
set  to  rise  fifteen  minutes  lomger,  and 
proceed  as  above. 

Other    Breakfast    Cakes. 
Autres    Gateaux   de  Dejeuner. 

In  addition  to  Muffins,  Waffles,  etc., 
"Batter  Cakes,"  "Flannel  Cakes,"  "Buck- 
wheat Cakes,"  "Griddle  Cakes,"  etc.,  form 
pleasing  and  toothsome  varieties  for  the 
morning  meal,  and,  it  might  be  added, 
not  only  for  the  morning  meal,  but  for 
luncheon  and  tea  as  well. 

BATTEK    CAKES. 

Galettes  de  Fate. 

2  Cups  of  Flour,  Finely  Sifted. 

2  Cupfuls  of  Sweet  Milk. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder. 
3   Eggs. 

Beat  the  whites  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  separately,  the  former  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Add  the  flour  to  the  yolks,  and 
beat  till  very  light.  Add  the  yeast  pow- 
der and  bake  again.  Then  add  the  sweet 
milk  and  beat  well.  Now  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  mix  all  to  a  very  smooth, 
light  batter,  as  thick  as  a  batter  that 
will  run  In  a  stream  from  the  mouth  of  a 
spoon.  Have  ready  the  hot  grlddl&J, 
which  you  will  grease  with  lard  lightly, 
or,  better  still,  with  a  piece  of  fat  bacon. 
Drop  the  cakes  on  the  griddle  from  a 
large  spoon,  and  bake  about  two  minutes 
to  a  nice  brown,  turning  first  on  one  sidu 
and  then  quickly  on  the  other.  Pile  the 
cakes  on  a  plate  In  the  mouth  of  ths 
oven,  buttering  each  generously  as  soon 


271 


as  baked,  and  send  to  the  table  almo-it 
as  fast  as  you  bake.  These  are  the  moat 
delicate  and  delightful  of  all  Griddle 
Cakes. 

They  may  also  be  made  with  sour  milk, 
instead  of  sweet,  in  which  case  use  a 
half  teaspoontul  of  soda,  instead  of  the 
baking  powder. 

BUCKWHEAT    CAKES. 

Galettes  de  Sarrasin. 

S    Cups    of    Buckwheat    Flour    (Perfectly 

Pure). 

1  3-4  Pints  of  Sweet  Milk  or  Water. 

1-2  Cake  of  Coimpressed  Yeast. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   Salt. 

Take  a  small  earthen  crock,  or  a  pitch- 
er, and  put  the  warm  milk  or  water,  or 
half  milk  and  water,  into  It,  and  then 
add  the  salt  and  the  buckwheat  flour. 
Beat  till  perfectly  smooth,  and  then, 
when  you  have  a  stiff  batter,  add  the 
yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Beat 
this  till  smooth,  and  then  cover  well  and 
set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  salera- 
tus,  to  remove  any  sourness  that  may 
have  accrued  during  the  night,  and  this 
addition  will  also  increase  the  lightness 
of  the  cakes.  Bake  on  a  griddle,  like 
Batter  Cakes.  * 

Buckwheat  Cakes  are  also  often  made 
by  taking  two  cups  of  buckwheat  flour, 
one  cup  of  "wheat  flour,  one  and  three- 
quarters  pints  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  mixing  all  together  till  very 
light,  and  baking  immediately  on  grid- 
dles. Many,  indeed,  prefer  them  com- 
bined with  the  flour.  This  mixture  may 
also  b"  made  as  in  the  above  recipe,  by 
using  compressed  yeast,  and  setting  to 
rise  over  night.  A  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter may  also  be  added  if  desired.  Serve 
with   Louisiana  Syrup. 

FliANNEt    CAKES. 

Galettes  de  Pate  au  Levaln. 

1  Pint   of   Milk.     2   Eggs. 

1-4  Cake  of  Compressed  Teast. 

3   Cups   of  Flour. 

1-2   Teaspoonful   of   Salt. 

"Heat  the  milk,  and  when  it  grows  tepid 
add  the  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
milk  or  water,  and  flour  sufficient  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  S'et  to  rise  ovsr 
night,  or  for  at  least  three  hours  In  the 
morning.  In  the  morning  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  liffht,  and  the  meltoJ 
butter,  and  mix  well.  Then  add  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat 
well,  and  then  bake  on  a  griddle,  as  In 
the  above  recipe  for  Batter  Cakes. 

Be  sure  to  make  the  batter  stiff  enough 
at  the  start  to  allow  for  the  admixture 
of  the  eggs  and  butter  in  the  morning. 
When  once  the  cakes  have  risen,  no 
flour  must  be  added,  unless  the  cakes  are 
set  to  rise  for  an  hour  again. 

Sweet  Flannel  Cakes  are  made  by  add- 
ing a  half  cup  of  sugar.     These  are  nice 

f  €1 1*     f  P  3, 

Aeaiii.  Flannel  Cakes  may  be  made 
without  yeast,  by  using  one  pint  of  but- 
termilk and  rme  teasnoonful  of  soda.  Tiie 
batter  Is  then  made  In  the  morning, 
without  setting  to  rise  over  night,  ana 
Is  baked  on  the  griddle  Immediately  after 
mixine-.  Omit  the  butter  in  these  but 
termilk  cakes  They  will  be  very  light 
and  spongy  without  the  butter. 

GRIDDLE   CAKES. 

Gateau   a   la  Plaque. 

3   Cups   of  Flour. 

S  Cups  of  Sour  Milk  or  Warm  Water. 


1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

3  Eggs,  Beaten  Very  Light. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Mix  the  flour  and  meal,  and  pour  on 
the  milk  or  warm  water.  Make  a  batter 
somewhat  stiffer  than  for  Buckwheat 
Cakes,  and  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten, 
the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  and 
finally  add  the  soda,  dissolved  in  a  littla 
warm  water.  Bake  on  a  griddle,  making 
the  cakes  large  and  generous.  Serve  with 
Louisiana  Syrup. 

Bread  Griddle   Cakes. 

Gateau  de  Pain  de  la  Plaque. 
Utilize    stale,   left-over   bread   for   these 
cakes.     Take 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Milk. 
2    Cups    of    Fine    Bread    Crumbs. 

3  Eggs. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  boiling  milk,  and 
as  it  cools  beat  it  to  a  very  smootti 
paste.  Then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  very  light,  and  the  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  water.  Finally  add  thfs 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  a  half  cupful  of  sifted  flour  to  bind 
well.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  and  butter 
and  serve  ."with  Louisiana  Mo-lasses  or 
Syrup. 

Cornmeal   Griddle   Cakes. 

Gateau  de  Farine  de  Mais  a  la  Plaque. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

2  Cups  of  Cornmeal. 

1    Cup    of   Flour. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

3  Eggs. 

3  Cups  of  Sour  Milk  or  Warm  Water. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda. 

S'cald  the  meal  and  mix  with  the  milk. 
Add  the  flour,  into  which  you  will  ha*,  e 
mixed  the  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light 
and  add,  and  when  all  has  been  beaten 
very  light  add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Bake 
on  a  griddle  to  a  nice  brown.  If  sweet 
milk  is ,  used,  be  careful  to  use,  instea-i 
of  the  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  oi  baking 
powder. 

Graham  flour,  virhich  is  now  used  so 
much,  may  be  made  into  griddle  cakes, 
using  two  cups  of  the  flour  to  one  of 
wheat  flour,  and  adding  also  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter.  Cook  as 
other  Griddle  Cakes  on  a  hot  griddle. 
Hominy  Griddle  Cakea. 
Gateau  de  Saccamite  a  la  Plaque. 

2  Cups  of  Hominy. 

1  Cup  of  Flour. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Salt. 

3   Eggs. 

3  Cups  of  Sour  Milk  or  Warm  Water. 

1    Teaspoonful    of    Soda. 

Boil   and   mash   the   hominy,    or   utilize 

left-over    hominy.    Add    the    flour,    into 

which    you    will    have    mixed    the    salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,   and  add,  and 

when  all  has  been  beaten  very  light  add 

a    teaspoonful    of    soda,    dissolved    In    a 

little  warm  water.    Bake  on  a  griddle  to 

a  nice  brown.     If  sweet  milk  is  used,  bo 

careful   to   use,   instead  of  the   soda,  two 

teaspoonfuls    of    baking    powder.    Serve 

with  Louisiana  Molasses  or  Syrup. 

French  Griddle  Cakes. 

Gateau  de  Plaque  a  la  Francalae. 

11-2  Pints  of  Sifted  Flour. 

6   Eggs. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter. 


272 


1   Ounce  of  Sugar. 
1  Cup  of  Milk. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
sugar  very  light;  then  add  the  flour  an.l 
melted  butter,  and  then  add  the  warm 
milk.  Beat  aJl  till  very  light.  Add  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and 
then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  all  till  very  smooth. 
Drop  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  upon  the 
hot  griddle;  turn  quickly  and  bake  on 
the  other  side,  allowing  about  two  min- 
utes in  all;  place  on  a  hot  platter,  but- 
ter well  and  spread  with  jelly,  then  roll 
up,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve 
very    hot. 

GreeH   Corn   Griddle  Cakes. 

Gateau  de  Mais  Tendre  a  la  Plaque. 

1  Quart  of  Finely-Grated  Green  Corn. 

1  Pint  of  Milk.     4  Eggs. 

1-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

1   Cup    of   Flour. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Melted  Butter. 

Beat  the  eggs  separately,  and  then  add 
the  yolks,  well  beaten,  to  the  corn.  Add 
the  salt,  melted  butter  and  the  milk,  anC 
mix  well.  Then  add  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter,  and  finally  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake 
on  a  hot  griddle,  butter  generously,  and 
serve  very  hot.  This  is  a  great  Creole 
cake,   and  very  delicious. 

Bice    Griddle    Cakes. 

Gateau  de  RIz  a  la  Plaque. 

2  Cups  of  Boiled  Rice. 

1  Cup  of  Flour.     2  Eggs. 

1  Pint  of  Milk  or  Water. 

1-2   Teaspoonful    of   Salt. 

1 1-2  Teaspoonful   of  Baking  Powder. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Sugar. 

Mash  the  rice  through  a  sieve.  Sift 
the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  to- 
gether, and  add  the  sugar  to  the  milk. 
Add  this  to  the  flour  and  mix  In  tha 
rice  till  free  from  any  lumps.  Then  add 
the  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  and  mix  into  a  very  smooth 
batter.  Have  the  griddle  well  heated. 
Bake  the  cakes  to  a  nice  brown,  and 
serve  with  Louisiana  Syrup. 

PUFFS. 

Souffles. 

1  Pint  of  Sweet  Milk. 

1-2  Pound  of  Flour. 

2    Ounces    of    Butter. 

4   Eggs. 

Beat  the  whites  and  the  yolks  sep- 
arately till  very,  very  light.  Warm  the 
milk  and  add  the  melted  butter.  When 
cold,  mix  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 


add  the  flour  and  salt,  beating  till  very 

light.     Now  add  the  whites   of  the  eggs, 

beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Stir  lightly,  turn 

into  buttered  tins,  filling  each  about  half 

full,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 

CBACKNEL,S. 

Craquelins. 

2   Cups   of  Rich   Milk. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter. 

1  Gill  of  Yeast. 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt. 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  butter,  and 

let    it    grow    tepid.     Then    add    the   yeast 

and  dissolve  well.     Add  the  salt,  and  now 

add  the  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  light 

dough.     Set   to   rise,    and   when   twice  its 

bulk  work  lightly,  and  roll  out  very  thin, 

and  cut  into  pieces  about  two  and  a  half 

inches    square.     Stick    well    with    a    fork 

through  and  through,  and  bake  in  a  slow 

oven,  as  you  would  soda  crackers. 

HOME-MADi;     TEAST. 

Levain  de  Menage. 

'  6  Large  Potatoes. 

A    Handful    of   Hops. 

3  Pints  of  Water. 

1-2  Cup  of  Sugar. 

1-2  Cup   of  Teast. 

Flour  Sufficient  to  Make  a  Batter. 

Cornmeal  to  Blend. 

Take  six  large  potatoes,  and  pare  them, 
and  then  boil  in  about  three  pints  of 
water.  Take  a  handful  of  hops,  and  tie 
them  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  boil  with  the 
potatoes.  When  these  are  thoroughly 
cooked,  drain  the  water  on  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  good  batter,  and  set  the 
mixture  on  the  stove  for  a  few  mlnutei, 
till  the  flour  is  well  scalded.  Do  not  let 
it  boil  or  simmer  under  any  considera- 
tion. Take  It  from  the  fire,  and  let  It 
cool.  Then  mash  the  potatoes  and  add 
them  to  the  flour,  and  add  a  half  cup  of 
sugar  and  a  half  cup  of  yeast.  Let  It 
stand  in  a  warm  place  till  It  has  thor- 
oughly risen.  Then  add  cornmeal  that 
has  been  sifted  and  dried,  and  knead 
well,  until  you  have  a  dough  thick 
enough  to  roll  out,  and  that  will  crumble 
when  dry.  Cut-  this  dough  Into  cakes, 
and  spread  on  a  board  and  place  In  the 
shade  to  dry.  Then  keep  in  a  box  in  a, 
dry  place. 

This  mixture  may  be  also  kept  and  used 
as  a  liquid  by  simply  stopping  when  you 
have  come  to  the  point  where  you  must 
add  the  cornmeal.  Let  the  mixture  thua 
stand  in  a  warm  place  till  it  has  thor- 
oiighly  risen.  Then  scald  a  large  jar, 
wipe  dry,  and  put  in  the  yeast.  Cover 
tight,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  One- 
third  of  a  cupful  of  yeast  will  make  two 
loaves  of  bread. 


CHAPTER  XLVm. 
SUGGESTIONS    TO    HOUSBKEiBPERS. 


The  following  suggestions  will  be  found 
of  interest  to  all  housekeepers,  especially 
to  the  young  and  Inexperienced.  They 
have  been  carefully  prepared,  with  espe- 
cial reference  to  the  needs  or  the  house- 
hold, and  bear  in  every  respect  upon  the 
recipes  given  in  The  Times-Picayune's 
Creole  Cook  Book: 

Conriparatlve       Table    .of    .Weights    .and 

Measures  Used  In  The  Times-Ploa- 

ynne's  Creole  Cook  Book. 

Every  housekeeper  should  have  for  her 
own    convenience    and    for    the    correct 
measurement  of  ingredients  used  In  mak- 
ing any  dish,  where  exact  measurements 


are  absolutely  necessary  to  success,  a  pair 
of  scales,  and  a  set  of  tin  measures  wifl 
small  lips  or  spouts;  these  measures 
should  range  from  one  gallon  to  a  half 
gill.  But  as  so  few  housekeepers  think  of 
the  necessity  of  having  such  measures 
until  they  set  to  making  preparations 
where  measurements  must  be  exact,  the 
following  carefully  prepared  table  may  be 
referred  to  with  absolute  reliance  upon 
the  comparative  quantities  given: 

Twenty-five  drops  of  thin  liquid  equal 
half  a  teaspoonful. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  solid  or  liquid 
equal  one  tablespoonful  of  solid  or  liquid. 


273 


Pour  tablespoonfuls  equal  one  wine- 
glassful  or  one-half  gill. 

One  wineglassful  equals  half  u  gill  or 
a  quarter  of  a  cup. 

Two  wineglassfuls  equal  one  gill,  or 
half  a  cup. 

Two  gills  equal  one  teacupful,  or  six- 
teen tablespoonfuls. 

One  teacupful  or  one  kitchen  cupful 
equals  half  a  pint. 

Two  teacuptuls  or  two  kitchen  cupfu.'a 
equal  one  pint. 

Two  pints  equal  one  quart. 

Four  quarts  equal  one  gallon. 

One  tablespoonful  of  liquid  equals  half 
an  ounce. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  equal  one  ounce. 

One  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  equals 
half  an  ounce. 

Two  level  tablespoonfuls  solid  equal  one 
ounce  liquid. 

Sixteen  ounces  equal  one  pound. 

One  pound  of  solid  is  equal  to  one  pint 
of  liquid. 

One  quart  of  unsifted  flour  equals  one 
pound. 

Four  teacupfuls  of  sifted  flour  equal 
one   pound. 

Three  cups  of  cornmeal  equal  one 
pound. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  cornmeal 
equal  one  pound. 

One  pint  or  two  cups  of  granulated 
sugar  equal  one  pound. 

One  pint  or  two  cups  of  brown  sugar 
equW  one  pound. 

Two  and  one-half  oupfuls  of  white  pul 
verized  sugar  equal  one  pound.  , 

One  well-rounded  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter equals  one  ounce. 

One  tablespoonful  of  salt  equals  one 
ounce. 

One    teacupful    of    cold,    hard    butter, 
pressed  down,  equals  half  a  pound, 
equal  one  pound. 

Two  cups  of  cold  butter,  pressed  down. 

One  pint  of  finely-chopped  meat,  solid- 
ly packed,  equals  one  pound. 

An  ordinary-sized  tumblerful  is  equpl 
to  half  a  pint,  or  one  teacupful. 

Ten  eggs  equal  one  pound. 

A  dash  of  pepper  Is  equal  to  one-elgh'i 
of  a  teaspoonful. 

Rules    to    be    Observed    In    Mixing 
Ingredients. 

In  every  recipe  given  in  this  book  fol- 
low Implicitly  the  exact  order  given  for 
the  mixing  of  ingredients.  This  mixing 
has  been  systematically  arranged,  and 
any  deviation  will  fail  of  success.  Do 
not  think  that  you  can  put  all  your  in- 
gredients together  pell-mell  and  succewi 
in  making  any  Ci'eole  dish.  Whether 
mixing  the  Ingredients  in  a  "Roux,"  pre- 
paratory to  adding  the  ingredient  which 
constitutes  the  dish'  proper,  or  whether 
making  desserts,  cakes,  etc.,  add  every 
Ingredient,  even  though  It  be  only  a  dash 
of  pepper  or  a  flavoring  extract,  in  the 
exact  order  and  proportion  given.  On 
the  strict  observance  of  these  rules  fol- 
lowed by  Creole  cuisinieres,  depends  the 
success  of  Creole  Cookery. 

Ontting,    Chopping,    Slicing   and   Mincing. 

Observe  implicitly  the  directions  given 
in  regard  to  cutting,  chopping,  slicing 
and  mincing,  whether  applied  to  vegeta- 
bles, meats  or  seasonings. 

When  the  Times-Picayune  Creole  Cook 
Book  says  to  chop  an  Ingredient,  it  means 
to  chop  in  the  strict  sense  of  the  word. 
WTien  it  directs  that  vegetables,  etc.. 
shall  be  cut.  It  means  to  cut,  in  the 
proper  acceptation  of  that  term  in  coolc- 
ery.  When  it  says  to  slice.  It  means  thJ.t 
the  Ingredient  shall  be  sliced,  and  not  cut 


or  chopped;  and  so  when  the  terra 
"mince"  is  used,  it  means  that  the  in- 
gredient shall  be  minced,  or  hasiied,  or 
grated,  as  fine  as  possible. 
The  Use  of  Wines  and  Liiquorg  in  The 
Times-Picayune's    Creole    Cook    Book. 

In  regard  to  the  use  of  Wines  and 
Liquors  in  cooking,  it  may  be  said  that 
wine  enters  frequently  into  the  prepara- 
tion cf  Creole  dishes,  such  as  meat,  stewa, 
courtbouillons,  etc.  In  all  recipes,  how- 
ever, where  its  use  is  indicated  in  this 
book,  it  may  be  omitted,  according  to 
taste,  without  detriment  to  the  dish,  ex- 
cept in  "Courtbouillon  a  la  Creole,"  the 
famous  "Bouilliabaisse,"  and  in  all  Mate- 
lotes, in  Salmi  of  Venison,  and  in  certain 
preparations  of  meats  and  poultry  and 
game  in  which  the  success  of  the  dish 
depends  greatly  upon  the  flavoring  given 
by  a  small  addition  of  wine.  But,  as  a 
general  rule,  wine  may  be  used  or  omit- 
ted according  to  the  taste.  This  explana- 
tion is  given  because  there  are  naany 
lamilies,  Creole  and  otherwise,  who  ob- 
ject to  the  use  of  wine,  even  In  cooking. 

As  regards  Wine,  Brandy  and  Hum  in 
Sauces  for  Puddings,  etc.,  a  variety  of 
recipes  that  are  equally  recherche  and  in 
which  liquors  of  no  kind  are  used,  are 
specified  in  this  book.  The  intelligent 
housekeeper,  therefore,  will  find  a  varied 
and  pleasing  selection  with  or  without 
wine  or  liquors. 

The    Use    of    Broth,    Bonlllon     or     Oon- 
sonune  in   Cooking. 

What  has  been  said  in  regard  to  Wines 
and  Liquors  holds  good  with  regard  to 
the  use  of  Broth,  Bouillon  or  Consomme, 
indicated  in  many  of  the  recipes  for  fish, 
meats,  poultry,  etc.  While  the  infusion 
of  Broth,  Bouillon  or  Consomme,  or  oys- 
ter water  in  lieu  of  plain  water,  adda, 
where  indicated,  a  delightful  flavor  to  the 
dish,  the  use  of  any  of  these  Is  not  im- 
perative in  making  the  dish,  and  w'ater, 
in  the  proportion  given  for  Broth  or  Con- 
sonime,  may  always  be  used  Instead,  ex- 
cept in  special  recipes.  For  Instance,  if 
you  wish  to  have  a  real  "Jambalaya  a  la 
Creole,"  the  use  of  Broth  or  Consomme 
Instead  of  water,  where  the  Jambalaya 
is  made  of  meats,  and  the  use  of  oyster 
water  where  it  is  made  of  oysters,  will 
impart  a  flavor  that  is  far  superior  to  a 
dish  prepared  with  water.  Nevertheless, 
In  hundreds  of  households  water  is  used 
almost  exclusively,  even  in  making  a 
jambalaya,  because  it  is  not  every  family 
that  chooses  to  make  a  pot  of  Broth  or 
Consomme  just  for  the  purpose  of  using 
it  as  an  ingredient  for  a  dish,  and  In  our 
climate  It  Is  not  possible  to  always  keep 
a  quantity  of  meat  or  tish  stock  on  hand 
for  culinary  purposes. 

Never  be  afraid,  therefore  to  undertake 
a  dish  because  it  calls  for  Wine  or  Bouil- 
lon or  Consomme.  Just  proceed  with  the 
cooking,  using  water  Instead,  and  If  your 
seasoning  is  good,  and  other  directions 
implicitly  followed  in  the  preparation  and 
cooking,  the  absence  of  either  Wine  or 
Consomme  will  scarcely  be  detected  by 
even  the  most  experienced  cook  or  epi- 
cure. 

Explanation    of    French    Terms    Used    in 
Cooking   and   Serving  Dishes. 

In  preparing  the  Creole  Cook  Book  The 
Times-Picayune  has  sought  to  overcome 
the  great  difficulty  that  the  majority  of 
people  outside  of  Louisiana  experience  In 
understanding  French  terms,  as  applied 
to  various  dishes  and  orders  of  service. 
Discussions  have  been  going  on  in  all 
parts  of  the  country  of  late  as  to  the  de- 


274 


sirability  of  abolishing  all  French  terns 
on  bills  of  fare,  one  celebrated  newspa- 
per declaring:  "What  is  the  use  of  call- 
ing a  dish  'Canard  Canvasback,'  wheu 
there  is  no  French  name  for  the  famous 
Canvas-back  Duck?"  All  this  is  very 
amusing  down  here  in  Louisiana,  where 
the  Canvas-back  Duck  has  been  always 
known  as  the  "Canard  de  Cheval."  And 
so  with  other  dishes.  The  use  of  French, 
however,  continues  in  bills  of  fare  pre- 
pared for  all  distinguished  banquets,  etc., 
critics  tc  the  contrary  notwithstanding, 
and  will  continue,  because  the  French  or- 
der of  service  is  the  one  accepted  the 
world  over,  in  all  state  and  official  gath- 
erings, and  the  pretty  touch  given  to  a 
dish  called  by  a  French  name  is  one  that 
ladies  especially  will  be  slow  to  give  up. 
An  air  of  distinction  is  conferred  upon 
even  a  homely  dish  by  calling  it  by  its 
French  name,  and,  as  remarked  above, 
all  criticisms  against  the  practice  will  not 
do  away  with  the  usage. 

The  Times-Picayune  has  sought  to  over- 
come the  difficulty  experienced  by  those 
who  are  not  acquainted  with  the  French 
language  and  French  terms  in  cooking  by 
giving  with  each  recipe  not  only  the  cor- 
rect English  name  of  the  dish,  but  the 
French  one  also.  It  now  proposes  to  fur- 
ther assist  housekeepers  and  caterers 
generally  by  giving  the  definitions  of  a 
few  additional  French  terms  used  in 
cooking  and  serving  dishes: 

Assaissonement — A  Seasoning;  a  salad 
dressing. 

Assaissonnement  Aromatique — ^An  aro- 
matic seasoning,  such  as  parsley,  chervil, 
etc. 

Aspic — This  is  a  meat  jelly  or  savory 
for  cold  dishes.  Boned  Turkey,  Gala'i- 
tine,  Calf's  Foot  Jelly,  Cold  Tongue,  Cold 
Daube,   are  all  termed  "En  Aspic." 

Au  Gratin — All  baked  or  roasted  dishes 
that  are  prepared  with  crumbs  grated 
and  sprinkled  over  are  called  "Au  Gra- 
tin." 

Bouchees — A  Bouchee  indicates  a 
mouthful,  and  is  from  the  French  "Bou- 
che,"  the  mouth.  It  is  applied  in  cook- 
ing to  all  very  thin,  small  patties  or 
cakes,  as  "Bouchees  d'Huitres,"  "Bou- 
chees a  la  Reine,"  etc. 

Bonne  Booiche — ^A  good  mouthful. 

Baba — A  peculiar  Creole  sweet  cake, 
made  of  yeast,  flour,  milk  and  eggs. 

Bisque — ^A  soup  made  of  shellfish.  It 
Is  red  in  color,  such  as  "Crawfish  Bis- 
que," the  shells  of  which  are  boiled  and 
mashed  and  pounded  and  strained  and 
added  to  the  soup  stock.  A  "Lobster 
Bisque"  may  be  prepared  after  the  same 
manner  as  the  "Crawfish  Bisque"  in  lati 
tudes  where  lobsters  may  be  obtalnej 
fresh.  The  Bisque  then  becomes  "Bisque 
d'Homard." 

Bisque  d'Ecrevlsse — A  Crawfish  Bisque 
or  soup. 

Blanchair — To  blanch.  To  blanch  an 
article  set  it  on  the  fire  till  It  bolls,  and 
then  plunge  in  cold  water.  This  rule 
applies  to  vegetables,  poultry,  nuts,  al- 
monds, etc.  The  skin  is  thus  removed 
and  the  article  is  blanched.  Blanchlnr 
also  means  simply  to  scald,  as  blanching 
oysters. 

Bouillon — A  bouillon  Is  a  clear  soun, 
much  stronger  than  broth,  and  yet  not 
quite  so  strong  as  Consomme. 

Boudins — A  form  of  sausage. 

Boulettes — A  small  ball  of  meat,  fish, 
etc.,  hashed  and  formed  in  balls  and 
fried. 

Bouillabaisse — ^A  famous  Hrench-Creole 
way  of  cooking  fish,  the  French  using  tiie 
Sturgeon  and  Perch;  the  Creoles  the  Rad- 
flsh  and  Red  Snapper.  The  fish  Is  cooked 


to  the  point  where  It  begins  to  boll;  then 
you  must  stop  on  the  instant.  IHence  the 
word  "Bouilliabaisse,"  from  "BouillU*/* 
to  boil,  and  "Baisse,"  to  stop.  (See  recipe 
for  Bouilliabaisse.) 

Braise — To  smother.  All  meats,  fish, 
vegetables,  etc.,  cooked  in  a  closely-cov- 
ered stewpan,  so  as  to  retain  not  only 
their  own  flavor,  but  those  of  all  other 
ingredients  entering  into  the  dish,  arc 
termed  "Braise,"  or  "a  la  Braise." 

Brioche — This  is  our  delightful  Creole 
breakfast  cake,  made  of  slightly  sweet- 
ened egg  and  milk,  batter  and  yeast,  set 
to  rise  over  night,  and  formed  into  a 
"Brioche,"  or  cake,  with  a  central  caka 
for  a  head,  and  the  other  cakes  arranged, 
to  the  number  of  six  or  eight,  around, 
and  sprinkled  with  sugar. 

Canapes — On  toast.  Anything  served 
on  toast  is  called  "sur  Canapes." 

Canelle — Cinnamc-n. 

Canneton  (masculine);  Canette  (femi- 
nine) Duckling. 

Canneton — Meat  stuffed  and  folded  up; 
forcemeat  balls. 

Charcuterie — The  term  for  all  sausages. 

Civet — A  stew  made  of  hare  and  so 
called  because  of  the  flavor  of  chives 
(cives)  that  enters  into  its  composition. 

Consomme — A  clear  soup  that  has  been 
boiled  down  to  almost  a  jelly-broth,  and 
which  is  very  rich. 

Consomme  Dore — ^A  gilded  or  golden 
yellow  consonune. 

A  la  Creme — With  Cream,  as  "Sauce  a 
la   Creme,"    etc. 

Creme  a  la  Glace — Ice  Cream. 

Coup  de  Millieu — A  middle  drink  or 
course  served  in  the  middle  of  the  meal, 
just  before  the  roasts,  as  "Ponche  a  la 
Cardinale,"  "Romane  Ponche,"  "Sorbet  a 
ia  RoyaJe,"  etc. 

Crapaud — A  toad;    bullfrog. 

A  la  Crapaudine— ^'rapaudlne  meap.s 
like  toadstool,  or  stone,  as  "Pigeons  a  la 
Crapaudine,"  which  means  pigeons  cooked 
and  dressed  to  resemble  little  toadstools 
or  frogs  on  a  stone.  (See  recipe  Pigeons 
a  la  Crapaudine.) 

Courtbouillon — A  fish  stew,  generally 
made  of  Redflsh. 

Courtbouillon  a  la  Creole — ^A  stew  of 
Redflsh,  to  which  wine  is  added. 

Croutons — Crusts  of  bread  cut  like  dice 
or  in  any  fancy  shape,  and  toasted  or 
fried  In  butter. 

Croustades — Pieces  of  bread  larger  thaa 
Croutons  toasted  or  fried  In  butter  or 
lard,  and  used  to  serve  minces  or  meats 
upon. 

DIndonneau — ^A  turkey  chick. 

Dariole — A  custard  pie. 

Diable— The  devil. 

A  la  Diable — According  to  the  devil. 
Generally  applied  to  hot,  fiery  orepara- 
tlons  of  meats,   sauces,   etc. 

Entree — ^A  side  dish,  served  between  the 
courses  at  dinner. 

Entremet — A  small  by-dlsh.  Entremets 
are  sweet  or  otherwise. 

Bau  de  Vie — Brandy  or  WTilsky.  Eau 
de  Vie  properly  mfeans  "water  of  life." 

Entremet  Sucre — A  sweet  by-dlsh.  Sweet 
entremets  are  generally  served  towards 
the  close  of  the  meal.  Just  before  the 
roasts. 

Flan — ^A  custard. 

Fondue — To  melt.  Generally  applied  to 
a  light  t>reparation  of  melted  cheese,  such 
as  "Welsh  Rarebit." 

Fondant — Sugar  boiled  and  beaten  to 
a  cream  paste. 

Grnnits — Aromatized  fruit  waters. 

Grille — Broiled. 

Hors  d'Oeuvre — A  bv-dlsh;  an  outwork, 
a  digression.  Under  this  term  Is  classed 
all    dishes    that    are   regarded   simply   as 


275 


accessoTies  to  a  meal,  and  designed  to 
excite  the  appetite,  but  not  to  satisfy.  It 
is  undoubtedly  because  they  are  placed 
on  the  table  outside  or  apart  from  other 
dishes  that  they  have  been  so  called. 

A  la  Jardiniere — According  to  the  grar> 
doner's  wife. 

Matelots — A  rich  fish  stew,  made  with 
wine. 

Mayonnaise — A  rich  salad  dressine, 
made  with  eggs,  oil,  vinegar,  etc.,  and 
served  with  chicicen,  shrimp,  fish  salad 
generally. 

Meringue — The  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to 
a,  stiff  troth  with  sugar. 

Meringuees — Covered  with  a  Meringue. 

Marinade— A  rich  liquor  of  spices,  vine- 
gar OT  wine,  etc.,  in  which  beef  or  fish 
are  steeped  for  several  hours  before  cook- 
ing. 

A  la  Mode — After  a  mode  of  fashion. 

Mironton — Cold  boiled  meat;  hashed 
and  warmed  over,  and  served  in  various 
ways.  X 

iNeige — Snow. 

A  la  Neige— Snowy;    like  snow. 

Pate — ^A  batter;   a  pie  dough. 

Pates — Small  pies  or  patties  of  oysters, 
meats,   fruits,   etc. 

Panache  —  Mottled,  variegated.  As 
"Creme  Panaohees,"  or  "Variegated  Ice 
Cream." 

Poulet — A   chicken. 

A  la  Poulette— As  a  chicken;  for  in- 
stance, a  "Sauce  a  la  Poulette,"  always 
has  eggs  added,  the  eggs  giving  the  dis- 
tinctive name  "a  la  Poulette." 

Praline — ^A  distinctive  Creole  sugar 
cake  made  of  ooooaiiut  and  sugar  or 
pecans  and  sugar.  (See  recipes  "Pra- 
line.") 

Pralinee — ^Sugared,  or  sugar-coated. 

Pijnent — Pepper. 

Pimente — Peppered. 

Piquante — ^A  sauce  of  piquant  flavor, 
vinegar  or  acid  predominating,  and  high- 
ly seasoned  with  pepper. 

A  la  Plaque — ^A  "Plaque"  is  a  flat 
baking  pan  or  griddle.  Articles  baked  in 
It  are  called  "a  la  Plaque,"  as  Pan  Bread, 
or  "Pain  a  la  Plaque." 

Quenelles — Meat,  liver,  fish  or  potatoe.'? 
chopped  and  highly  seasoned  an3  rolled 
Into  balls  or  boulettes  and  boiled  and 
served  as  a  garnish.  We  have  also  "Po- 
tato Quenelles." 

Ragout — A  rich  stew  of  meat  or  poul- 
try, generally  made  with  vegetables,  such 
as  mushrooms,   green   peas,  truffles,   po- 

Ratafia-^A  kind  of  liqueur  or  wine  cor- 
dial. .  ,    ^ 

Remoulade — A  dressing  for  salads, 
somewhat  like  the  Mayonnaise,  but  dif- 
fering in  this,  that  the  eggs  are  all  hard- 
boiled  and  rubbed  in  a,  mortar  with  mus- 
tard, vinegar,  minced  garlic,  etc. 

Releves — A  side  dish;  a  term  applied 
when  it  IS  desired  to  serve  another  dish 
beside  an  entree. 

Rissoles — ^Minced  meat  or  fish,  rolled  in 
thin  pastry  and  fried. 

Roux — A  mixture  of  flour  and  butter, 
or  flour  and  lard,  used  as  a  foundation 
for  sauces  or  as  a  foundation  for  stews, 
salmis,  etc. 

Roti — ^A  roast. 

Tarte — ^A  pie. 

Tartelette — A  tartlet. 

Sauter — To  smother  and  toss  meats, 
fowl,  vegetables,  etc.,  over  the  fire  in 
butter  or  fat. 

Savarin — ^A  wine  cake. 

Salmi— A  rich  stew  of  venison,  duck 
or  other  game,  cup  up  and  dressed  gen- 
erally with  wine. 

Saimigondis — ^A  hotch-potch  of  game, 
such  as  venison,  etc. 


Saucissons  de  Lyons — Bologna  Sausage. 

Salade   d'Anchois — ^Anchovy  Salad. 

Souffle — An  omelet,  pudding  or  custard, 
thoroughly  beaten  and  whipped  up  until 
it  becomes  so  light  that  when  cooked  it 
must  be  eaten  imniediately,  or  else  it  will 
tall. 

Talmouse — ^A  cheese  cake. 

Tanine  d'Anohcis — Anchovy  Tartines; 
circles  of  brown  bread,  spread  with  An- 
chovy Paste,  yolks  and  whites  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  also  chopped 
pickles,  all  arranged  in  alternate  rows. 

Timbale — A  pie  cooked  in  a  mold.  In 
"Macaroni  en  Timbale"  the  macaroni  Is 
cooked  in  the  cheese  head. 

Vinaigrette — ^A  sauce  or  salad  dressing, 
made  of  salt  and  pepper,  vinegar  predom- 
inating. 

Vol-au-Vent — ^A  chicken,  meat,  fish  or 
game  pie,  baked  in  a  light  Puff  Pastp, 
and  served  as  an  entree. 

BREAKFAST. 
Dejeuner. 

The  home  breakfast  is  generally  a 
modest  repast,  consisting  generally  of 
such  hors  d'oeuvres  as  Cress,  Radishes, 
etc.,  with  some  cereal  (served  with  millt), 
beefsteak  or  fish,  with  potatoes,  and 
numerous  forms  of  breads  or  griddle 
cakes,  waffles  or  muffins. 

In  Creole  households  fruits  are  always 
served  first  at  breakfast,  and  generally 
raw. 

Cereals  for  Breakfast. 

Grits,  Hominy,  Oatmeal,  Cracked 
Wheat,  Cornmeal  Mush,  Farina,-  Cereal- 
Ine,  Wbeatena,  etc.  All  these  may  be 
served  with  cream,  milk,  milk  and  sugar, 
or  with  gravies. 

Vegetables  for  Breakfast. 

Radishes,  Cress,  Sliced  Cucumbers,  Let 
tuoe.  Sliced  Raw  Tomatoes,  Celery,  Pota 
toes  in  any  of  the  various  forms  of  cook- 
ing given.  Stewed  Tomatoes,  Fried  Sweet 
Potatoes,    are    all    served    at    breakfast, 
the  raw  vegetables  as  hors  d'oeuvres. 
Warm  Breakfast  Dishes. 

Broiled  Tenderloin,  Sirloin,  Brplle.i 
Chops,  Chicken,  Ham,  Fish,  Small  Fancy 
Game,  Quail  on  Toast,  Snipe,  Woodcock, 
Fried  Liver  and  Bacon,  Fried  Pork,  Ten- 
derloin or  Chops,  Fried  Pigs'  Feet,  Gril- 
lades,  Flried  Soft-Shell  Crabs,  Veal  Cut- 
lets Breaded,  Sausage,  Stewed  Tripe, 
Stewed  Kidneys,  all  kinds  of  Hash  (tur- 
key, chicken,  mutton,  veal,  beef,  corn- 
beef  or  otherwise),  all  kinds  of  Meat, 
Fowl  and  Fish  Croquettes,  Codfish  Balls, 
Creamed  Codfish,  Creamed  Chicken, 
Stewed  Meats,  Eggs  in  every  variety  of 
cooking  (such  as  boiled,  fried,  scrambled, 
poached,  on  toast),  Fried  Ham  and  Eggs, 
Omelets,  etc. 

Breakkfast    Breads    and    Cakes. 

Any  of  the  numberless  varieties  of 
Breads  and  Cakes,  besides  the  Bakers' 
Bread,  so  generally  used  in  New  Orleans, 
such  as  Rolls,  Biscuit,  Muffins,  Waffles, 
Corn  Cakes,  Griddle  Cakes,  Batter  Cake^, 
Corn  Bread,  Muffin  Bread,  Sweet  Potato 
Bread,  Fritters,  etc. 

Breakfast    Beverages. 

C'o<fee    (Cafe  Noir  and   Cafe  au   Lait), 
Chocolate,   Cocoa  and  Tea    (if  preferred) 
may  all  be  served  as  breakfast  beverages. 
Hors    d'Oeuvres    for    Breakfast. 

These  include  Celery,  Olives,  Radishes, 
Cress,  Pickles,  Canapes,  Sliced  Cucum- 
hers.  Sliced  Raw  Tomatoes,  Lettuce,  Raw 
Oysters  (when  In  season),  and  in  general 
any  hors  d'oeuvres  that  may  be  served  at 
dinner. 


276 


IiUNCHEON. 

Gouter. 

Perhaps  no  meal  admits  of  such  Infi- 
nite variety  as  luncheon.  Almost  anything: 
may  be  served  for  luncheon,  from  cold 
left-over  meats,  fish,  etc.,  and  all  hors 
d'o-euvres  and  salads  to  desserts.  Tea, 
coffee,  cocoa,  chocolate,  iced  lemonade, 
and  almost  all  iced  summer  drinks,  a.i 
well  as  fruits,  are  served  acceptably  at 
luncheon.  Hot  or  cold  bread  may  be 
served,  as  also  forms  of  breakfast  cakes 
and  syrups. 

The  order  of  service  varies.  For  in- 
stance, fruits  may  be  served  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  meal,  or  as  a  dessert  at 
the  close,  and  so  also  with  watermelons 
and  muskmelons. 

DINNEB. 

Diner. 

The  Creoles  divide  dinners  into  threa 
classes:  The  dinner  of  one  course,  of  two 
courses,  and  of  three  courses.  The  first 
they  have  appropriately  named  "Am- 
bigu,"  because  it  admits  of  all  dishes 
being  brought  to  the  table  at  the  same 
time,  from  the  soups  to  the  desserts,  and 
dishes  are  confo-unded.  Among  wealthy 
classes,  the  "Ambigu"  is  a  dinner  served 
hastily  at  night,  after  a  theater  or  oper* 
party,  or  otherwise,  coming  in  from  a 
soiree,  but  among  the  poorer  classes  the 
"Ambigu"  is  made  a  very  pleasant  meal. 
Hors  d'oeuvres  and  such  desserts  as 
cakes  and  fruits  are  placed  on  the  table 
before  the  family  is  seated,  and  the  soup 
is  served  as  a  "Releve,"  all  the  other 
dishes,  from  the  roasts  to  the  entrees 
and  entremets  and  entremets  sucres  and 
salad,  being  placed  on  the  table  at  tha 
same  time.  Jellies,  fruits  and  cake  com- 
pensate for  the  absence  of  elaborate  dei- 
serts,  and  the  vegetables  and  sauces  are 
few.  Properly  served,  as  is  done  dally 
in  many  a  Creole  home,  an  "Ambigu' 
may  become  an  elegant  and  distinguished 
repast,  though  the  viands  are  plain  and 
simple. 

In  dinners  of  two  courses  the  soup 
is  again  the  "Releve,"  and  the  fish  or 
meats  and  all  the  vegetables,  entremets 
anu  entrees,  and  also  the  salad,  constitute 
the  first  course.  Salads,  as  a  rule,  should 
always  be  served  with  the  roasts.  The 
desserts  constitute  the  second  course. 

In  dinners  of  three  courses,  following 
always  the  French  order  of  arrange- 
ment, which  has  always  been  observed 
m  elegant  Creole  homes,  the  following 
la  the  order  of  service: 

First  Course — Soup  or  Gumbo,  Hors 
d  Oeuvres. 

Second  Course— Fish  (and  with  fish  are 
always  served  potatoes  in  any  form),  Re- 
leves  (where  another  dish  Is  desired). 
Entrees,  Coup  de  MUlieu  (a  middle  iced 
drink),  Rotis  or  Roasts,  Vegetables,  B.i- 
tremets.  Salads,  Entremets  S'ucrea. 

Third  Course — Desserts,  Compotes,  Pui- 
dings,  Pies,  Cakes,  Pieces  Montees,  Ices 
Fruits,  Petit  Fours,  Cheese,  Coffee. 
Suitable       DisheB       for       These  *  Various 
Oonrses. 

The  following  constitutes  the  list  o' 
suitable  dishes  for  these  various 

Hors    d'Oenvrea. 

Relishes. 

These  may  be  either  hot  or  cold,  bui 
ordinarily  only  cold  hors  d'oeuvres  are 
used,  and  are  passed  as  appetizers  or 
relishes  between  the  courses. 

Cold  Hors  d'Oeuvres — Radishes,  Celery, 
Olives,   Cress,   Lettuce,  Roquette,  Pickled 


Onions,  Sliced  CTucumbers,  Sliced  Toma- 
toes, Pickles,  Mangoes,  Melons,  An- 
chovies, Sardines,  liyonnaise  Sausage 
(Saucissons  Lyonnaise),  Bread  and  But- 
ter, Crackers,  Anchovy  SandwicheSj^Bo- 
logna  Sausage  cut  and  sliced.  Cold  OAm, 
Pigs'  Feet,  a  Crawfish  Bush  (Buisson 
d'Ecrevisses),  a  Slirimp  Bush  (Buisson  de 
Chevrettes),  Boiled  Crawfish,  River 
Shrimp  on  Ice,  Oysters  on  Half  Shell, 
Raw  Oysters,  Sliced  or  Quartered  Lemon, 
Salted  Almonds,  Salted  Peanuts,  Canapes 
of  Caviar,  Ham,  Crab,  etc. 

Hot  Hors  d'Oeuvres — Petits  Pates  au 
JUS  (or  small  hot  patties  of  meats,  etc.) 
Boudins  Noirs  et  Blancs  (Boudin  Saus- 
ages, white  and  black) ,  Rissoles,  Sausages 
with  or  without  Truffles,  Rognons  a  la 
Brochette  or  Broiled  Kidneys,  Pigs'  Feet, 
Bouchees  d'Huitres  or  ovster  patties. 
Fried  Brains  (whether  o*  mutton  or 
veal).  Calves'  Feet,  Oxtail  with  Vine- 
gar or  Miistard  Sauce. 

Entrees.  . 

Entrees  are  side  dishes,  and  are  served 
between  the  courses,  immediately  follow- 
ing the  fish,  and  alTvays  preceding  the 
roast.  Entrees  comprise  all  Stews,  Ra- 
gouts, Salmis,  Matelotes,  Vol-au-Vents, 
Cutlets,  Sweetbreads,  Rissoles,  Compotes 
of  Meats,  Fowl  or  Fish,  FSlets  of  Veal 
or  Beef  Saute,  etc.;  all  Daubes,  wheth>;r 
of  Meat,  Fowl  or  Pigeons;  Poulet  au  Riz, 
Poulet  Saute  aux  Champignons  ou  aux 
Petits  Pols. 

Releves. 

Releves  are  side  dishes  added  to  a 
course  when  it  is  desired  to  serve  another 
dish.  They  comprise  Filets  of  Beef  or 
Veal,  Boiled  Meats  served  with  garnish, 
Brochettes  of  Kidneys,  Liver,  etc.;  Ca- 
pons and  Poulardes  cooked  with  Rice, 
Poulet  au  Riz,  Pates  de  Foies  Gras,  Loin 
of  Veal,  Knuckle  of  Veal,  Sirloin  Steals, 
etc.;   Soft-Shell  Crabs,  Stuffed  Crabs,  e'c. 

Entremets. 

These  are  of  two  kinds.  Vegetable  En- 
tremets and  Sweet  Entremets.  The 
former  comprise  all  vegetables,  and  one 
or  two  are  always  served  with  an  en 
tree,  and  the  remainder  are  brought  on 
with  the  roasts.  Potatoes  are  always 
served  with  fish,  and  are  goo>d  with  all 
meats.  With  fowls  they  are  best  mashed. 
Sweet  potatoes  are  served  with  all  roasts, 
especially  Roast  Pork,  Onions,  Squash, 
Cucumbers.  Asparagus,  Eggplants  are  ex- 
cellent with  roast  meats.  Carrots,  Pars- 
nips, Turnips,  Pumpkin,  Greens,  Ca\>- 
bage,  are  good  with  boiled  meats.  Com, 
Green  Peas,  Beets,  Peas,  Beans,  mar 
be  served  with  either  boiled  or  roast 
meats.  Mashed  Turnli>s  are  very  appro- 
priate to  Roast  Duck,  Roast  Pork  and 
Mutton,  and  boiled  meats,  such  as  Boiled 
Mutton,  Tomatoes  and  Green  Peppers 
are  served  with  every  kind  of  meats. 
Green  Peas  are  especially  nice  served 
with  Young  Spring  Lamb,  Sweetbreads, 
Filets  of  Veal  or  Beef,  Spring  Chicken, 
etc.  Spinach  is  a  very  proper  accompanl> 
ment  to  veal.  Lemons  cut  Into  dice  miay 
be  served  with  all  fowls  and  fish. 

Sweet   Entremets. 

These  comprise  all  kinds  of  Fritters  or 
Belgnets,  various  sweet  Omelets,  and 
Fruits  cooked  in  divers  manners.  (Se» 
chapter  on  Sweet  Entremets.)  Fritters, 
etc.,  are  served  In  the  middle  of  the 
course,  often  Just  before  the  Coup  de  Mil- 
lieu,  with  the  entrees.  Sweet  Entremets 
such  as  Omelette  Souffle,  Rhum  Omelette, 
etc.,  always  precede  the  dessert,  being 
served  immediately  after  the  roasts. 


277 


Boasts. 

These  comprise  all  manner  of  Roast 
Meats,  Poultry,  Game,  etc.  The  Salads 
are  always  brought  to  the  table  and 
served  with  the  Roasts. 

Desserts. 

These  comprise  all  manner  of  Com- 
potes, Pies,  Puddings,  Cakes,  Jellies  and 
ftiarmalades,  Preserves,  Fruits,  Ices, 
Petits  Fours,  Bonbons,  etc.  Cheese  and 
Nuts  are  brought  to  th6  table  with  the 
Desserts.  Coffee  is  served  as  a  finale  tc 
all  dinners,  banquets  and  suppers. 

How  to  utilize  lieft-Over  I'ood. 

Never  throw  away  scraps  of  bread  or 
broken  crusts  or  stale  bread.  Take  all 
the  broken  pieces  and  brown  them  In 
the  stove,  and  roll  them  on  the  bread 
board  till  grated  fine,  and  sift  through 
a  coarse  sieve.  Again  roll  the  crumbs 
that  remain  in  the  sieve,  and  sift  as  be- 
fore. Put  them  all  into  a  jar  and  cover, 
and  keep  ,them  for  use  In  cooking.  A 
box  of  bread  crumbs  for  dishes  prepared 
*'au  Gratin"  is  indispensable  in  a  kitchen. 

Left-over  stale  bread  is  also  used  in 
making  Bread  Paddings,  Bread  Muffins, 
Queen  Pudding,  etc. 

Use  all  broken  pieces  of  cakes  in  mak- 
ing puddings,  such  as  Banana  Souffle, 
9,nd  all  Cake  Puddings. 

All  Gold  left-over  mashed  potatoes  may 
be  used  for  making  Croquettes  or  Puffs 
or  Quenelles  of  Potatoes.  Cold  boiled 
potatoes  left  over  may  be  utilized  in  pre- 
paring Lyonnaise  Potatoes  or  Frencn 
Fried  Potatoes. 

Left-over  Greens  may  be  used  in  mak- 
ing Salads.  Left-over  fish  and  chicken 
may  be  used  in  making  Fish  or  Chicken 
Salad  a   la   Myonnaise. 

Left-over  meat,  whether  veal,  mutton 
or  beef,  may  be  used  in  making  Hash 
Croquettes  or  Boulettes. 

Save  all  fat  drippings  and  bits  of  fat 
meat  and  bacon  skin.  The  former  are 
excellent  for  frying  fritters  and  dough- 
nuts and  pancakes;  the  latter  for  greas- 
ing the  griddle  for  com  cakes,  etc. 

Keep  all  coarse,  rough  ends  of  beef- 
steak or  sirloin,  or  the  ends  of  tenderloin 
steaks.  They  make  excellent  stews  or 
croquettes  of  meat  balls. 

The  remains  of  yesterday's  roast  beef 
or  mutton  may  be  utilized  In  croquettes 
for  breakfast,  or  cecils  or  cold  meat  for 
luncheon. 

Remains  of  turkey  or  chicken  or  rabbit 
may  be  used  in  making  Gumbos. 

Save  all  left-over  rice  for  Riz  au  Lait, 
griddle  cakes,  Calas,  Jambalaya,  etc. 

All  left-over  cold  boiled  meat  from  sojp 
may  be  used  for  Beef  Hash. 

When  you  have  finished  with  the  ham 
bone,  do  not  throw  it  away,  but  after 
chipping  all  the  meat  off  for  "Frizzled 
Ham,"  boil  the  bone  with  cabbage  or 
turnip  or  other  vegetable  greens,  or  witn 
red   or   white    beans    or   lentils.    It   gives 


a    flavor   to    these    dishes   that   they   wiU 
not  otherwise  have. 

Keep  all  the  green  parts  of  the  Celery 
tips  that  do  not  miake  a  beautiful  dec- 
oration at  the  table  when  celery  Is  served 
and  use  for  flavoring  for  soups,  salads, 
stews,  etc. 

Turnips  and  beans  left  over  from  yes- 
terday may  be  made  into  a  puree  for  din- 
ner next  day. 

Keep  all  pieces  of  Plain  or  Puff  Pas+e 
that  are  trimmed  from  the  pies  or  pat- 
ties. Roll  them  over  again,  cut  into 
pretty  squares,  and  serve  at  supper  with 
preserves  spread  over  them.  Or  simply 
put  in  the  ice  box  and  use  the  next  dd.y 
in  making  Rissoles  with  left-over  meat. 

When  making  Gold  Cake,  save  the 
Whites  of  the  eggs  for  Silver  Cake.  Or 
they  may  be  used  for  making  Angel  Cake. 
Apple  Snow,  and  all  other  forms  of  des- 
serts in  which  Meringues  are  called  for. 

Finally,  do  not  waste  anything  in  the 
kitchen.  Our  grandmcthers  scrupulous- 
ly saved  every  piece  of  bone  or  fat,  and 
these  were  utilized  in  making  soft  soap. 

The  careful  housekeeper  -will  manage 
to  keep  out  of  debt  and  set  a  good  table, 
with  much  variety,  on  a  small  allowance, 
Oy  faithfully  saving  and  utilizing  the 
left-overs. 

Invalid    Cookery. 

It  has  not  been  thought  necessary  to 
add  a  chapter  on  "Invalid  Cookery"  in 
this  book,  as  all  Creoles  know  how  to 
prepare  dainty  articles  of  diet  for  the 
sick.  Invalid  cookery,  moreover,  does 
not  differ  much  from  the  general  house- 
hold cookery,  and  all  recipes  given  In 
this  book  for  Bouillons,  Oyster  S'oups, 
delicate  Purees,  Chicken  Broth,  Toasts, 
Broiled  Chicken  and  Birds,  Broiled  Ten- 
derloin Steak,  delicate  Custards,  such  as 
Milk  Custards,  Riz  au  Lait,  Blano 
Mange,  Jellies,  Gruels,  Porridge,  Egg 
Toasts,  Fruit  Waters,  Mint  Julips,  Coh- 
blers.  Egg  Nogg,  Blackberry  Cordials, 
etc.;  delicate  ways  of  serving  oranges 
and  other  fruits — in  fact,  almost  anything 
that  may  be  ordered  by  a  physician,  from 
a  Beef  Broth  or  Oyster  Soup  to  Milk 
Toast  or  Charlotte  Russe,  may  be  found 
in  The  Times-Picayune  Creole  Cook  Book. 
Reference  has  only  to  be  made  to  the  in- 
dex, and  with  a  slight  reduction  of  quan- 
tity in  all  proportions,  say  about  one- 
lourth,  for  a  dish  intended  for  one  per- 
son, -where  Custards,  etc.,  are  indicated, 
the  dish  may  be  prepared. 

The  serving  is  the  most  important  point 
after  cooking.  Never  crowd  a  dish  in- 
tended for  an  invalid.  Spread  a  dainty 
napkin  on  the  salver.  Arrange  the  food 
in  a  most  appetizing  way,  lay  a  rosebud 
or  a  flower  fresh  from  the  garden  on  the 
salver,  and  bring  in  the  dainty,  tempting 
morsel  with  a  happy,  cheery  smile, 
though  your  heart  may  be  sinking.  The  ' 
dish,  in  nine  oases  out  of  ten,  will  not  fall 
to  please,  Tvhile  your  sunny  smile  will  en- 
courage the  patient,  and  make  him  or  her 
feel  that  recovery  is  certain.  Then  the 
battle  is  half  won. 


CHAPTER  XlilX. 


VARIETIES     OF     SEASONABLE    FOODS     FOUND     IN     THE     NEW     ORLEANS 
MARKET    DURING    THE    TEAR. 


How  often  is  the  complaint  heard  from 
the  busy,  tired  housekeeper:  "My  hu'i- 
band  and  children  are  so  tired  of  eating 
the  same  things,  day  in  and  day  out;  I 
really  do  not  know  what  to  give  them 
for  a  change  in  diet!" 

This  is  a  complaint  that  shOTiId  never 
be  heard  in  the  latitude  of  New  Orleang, 


where  nature  is  so  prolific;  where  at  all 
seasons  of  the  year  some  dainty  bit  of 
game,  poultry  or  meat  is  to  be  had  at 
wonderfully  low  prices;  -where  our  rivers 
and  lakes  are  stocked  with  the  finest  fish 
from  January  to  December,  and  where 
our  spring  and  autumn  crops  of  vegeLa- 
bles   and   fruits,   the   former   running  all 


278 


through  the  summer,  the  latter  to  the 
verge  of  the  succeeding  spring,  make  jt 
possible  for  even  the  poorest  family  to 
enjoy  variety  and  delicacy  of  viands  at 
each  daily  meal. 

The  Creoles  have  an  old  adage  that 
"Nature  itself  tells  us  what  to  eat,''  in 
the  various  vegetables  and  fruits  of  each 
season,  and  in  the  varieties  of  fish  and 
flesh  meat  that  are  particularly  adapted 
to  each  season.  As  the  months  wane, 
and  a  new  season  dawns,  the  good  Creole 
housekeeper,  even  of  unlimited  means, 
far  from  trusting  entirely  to  servants  to 
do  the  marketing,  makes  it  her  duty  to 
take  a  leisurely  stroll  through  the  French 
Market,  where  all  the  first  fruits,  vegeta- 
bles, fish  and  game  of  the  season  are 
to  be  found,  and  she  takes  her  own  men- 
tal notes,  and  knows  just  what  to  order 
when  her  cook  comes  for  the  daily  inter- 
view. Again,  many  of  the  most  famous 
housekeepers  do  their  own  marketing  en^ 
tirelv.  and  it  is  not  an  uncommon  thing 
to  see  Madame  or  Mademoiselle  going  to 
market  every  morning,  followed  by  some 
faithful  old  domestic  who  may  still  ad- 
here to  the  fortunes  of  the  family. 

For  the  convenience  of  housekeepers 
generally,  however,  we  will  close  this 
Creole  Cook  Book  by  giving  for  each 
month  in  the  year  the  varieties  of  season- 
able foods  to  be  found  In  our  latitude. 
By  a  simple  daily  reference  to  this  list, 
the  housewife  may  at  once  make  her  se- 
lections for  the  daily  menu.  With  slight 
modifications    Incident    to     climate    and 

firoductions,  the  list  may  be  useful  In  a.ny 
atitude.  Again,  to  facilitate  the  choice 
of  the  housekeeper  as  to  viands,  a  daily 
menu  is  given  for  one  week,  as  also  for 
great  festivals,  such  as  Christmas,  New 
Year's,  Easter  and  Thanksgiving  Day. 
Seasonable  Foods  From  Jannary  to 
December. 

JANUAKT. 

Meats. 
Des  Viandes. 
Beef,    Mutton,    Pork,    Lamb. 
Poultry. 
De  la  Volallle. 
Turkey,    Chicken,    Capons,    Geese,    D  >- 
mestlc  Ducks,  Pigeons,  Guinea  Fowl. 
Game. 
Glbler. 

Canvas-back  Ducks,  Mallard  Ducks, 
Squab,  Becasslne  or  Snipe,  Becasse  or 
Woodcock,  Partridge,  Quail,  Venison,  and 
a  variety  of  small  birds.  Rabbit,  Haie, 
Squirrel  and  Poule  d'Eau. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 
Redfish,  Redsnapper,  Flounder,  Sheepf- 
head,  Spanish  Mackerel,  Pompano, 
Grouper,  Green  Trout,  River  Trou*. 
Speckled  Trout,  Croakers,  Blueflsh,  Sa- 
calalt,  Patassas,  Green  Turtle,  Diamond- 
back  Terrapin,  Frogs,  Oysters,  Hard- 
shell Crab,  Soft-shell  Crab,  Lake  Shrimp. 
River  Shrimp,   Crawfish. 

Vegetables. 

Des  Legumes. 

Fresh  Vegetables  may  be  had  as  foi 
lows:  Beets,  Cabbage,  Carrots,  Chervil, 
Celery,  Cress,  Corn  Salad,  Cauliflower, 
Endive  or  Chlcoree,  Spinach,  Salsify,  Sor» 
rel.  Lettuce,  Parsley,  Parsnips,  Radish, 
Roquette  for  salad.  Mustard  for  salad. 
Turnips,  Leeks  and  Rutabaga. 


Fruits. 

Des  Fruits. 
Fresh    fruits:    Bananas,    Pears,   Apples, 
Oranges,     Grapes,     Lemons,     Pineapples, 
Cherries,   Cranberries. 

FFBBUABY. 

Meats. 

Des   Viandes. 

Beef,  Mutton,  Pork,   Lamb. 

Poultry. 

De  la  Volallle. 

Turkey,  Capons,  Chickens,  Guinea 
Fowl,  Geese,  Domestic  Ducks  and 
Pigeons. 

Game. 
Gibier. 

Canvas-back  Ducks,  Mallard  Ducks, 
Teal  Duck,  Squab,  Becasslne  or  SUpe, 
Becasse  or  Woodcock,  Partridge,  Quail. 
Wild  Turkey,  Wild  Geese,  Rabbit,  Hare. 
Squirrel,  Poule  d'Eau,  Venison. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 

Redfish,  Redsnapper,  Flounder,  Span- 
ish Mackerel,  Sheepshead,  Green  Trout, 
Speckled  Trout,  Croakers,  Blueflsh,  Gresn 
Turtle,  Diamond-back  Terrapin,  Frogs, 
Oysters,  Hard-shell  Crab,  Soft-shell  Crab, 
Lake  Shrimp,  River  Shrimp,  Crawfish. 

Vegetables. 

Des   Legumes. 

Beets,  Carrots,  Cabbage,  ChervU,  Celery, 
Cress,  Cornsalad,  Cauliflower,  Endive  or 
Chicoree,  Spinach,  Salsify,  Sorrel,  list- 
tuce.  Parsley,  Parsnips,  Radish,  Roquette, 
Mustard,  Turnips,  Leeks,  Rutabaea. 
Fruits. 
Des    Fruits. 

Bananas,      Pears,      Apples,      Oranges, 

Grapes,  Lemons,  Pineapples,  Cranberries. 

MAKCH. 

Meats. 

Des   Viandes. 

Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Lamb,  Pork. 

Poultry. 

De    la    Volallle. 

Turkey,  Ducks  and  Pigeons  (domestic). 
Geese,   Chickens,  Capons,  Young  Pullets. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

All  the  game  common  to  February. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 

The  first  Pompano  of  the  season  rjsed 
to  appear  in  March.  It  was  much  sought 
after.  Of  late  years  It  has  become  so 
abundant  that  it  is  now  shipped  during 
every  month  of  the  year  to  every  part 
of  the  Union.  In  February  we  have  also 
Redfish,  Redsnapper,  Spanish  Mackerel. 
Flounders,  Trout,  Croakers,  Blueflsh, 
Grouper,  SS.ccalait,  Patassas,  Sheepshead, 
Perch,  Hard-shell  Crab,  Soft-shell  Crab, 
Oysters,  Green  Turtle,  Terrapin,  LaKe 
and  River  Shrimp,  Crawfish. 

Vegetables. 

Des  Legumes. 

All  the  above-mentioned  Vegetables  for 
February  are  to  be  found  In  the  market 
In    March,    with    the    addition    of    Green 


279 


Peas.  The  large  Marrowfat  Green  Peas 
are  hardy,  and  are  planted  from  October 
to  the  end  ot  March,  while  the  little 
French  Pea  (Petit  Pois)  is  more  subject 
to  damage  from  freeze,  and  is  planted 
during  January,  and  until  April,  ripeningr 
a  crop  in  from  forty  to  sixty  days,  ac- 
cording to  weather  and  cultivation. 

The  vegetables  for  the  month  stand  as 
follows:  New  Green  Peas,  Beets,  Cab- 
bage, Carrots,  Chervil,  Celery,  Cress, 
Cornsalad,  Cauliflower,  Endive,  Spinach, 
Salsify,  Sorrel,  Lettuce,  Parsley,  Parsnips, 
Roquette,  Mustard,  Turnips,  Leeks,  Ruta- 
baga. 

Fruits. 

Des    Fruits. 

The  first  Strawberries  appear  early  In 
March,  and  have  oeen  ripened  at  the 
end  of  February,  when  the  blossom 
escapes  the  freezes  that  begin  regularly 
in  February.  Oranges,  Bananas,  Pine- 
apples,   etc.,    are    plentiful. 

APRIL 


Des   Vlandes. 

Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Pork,  Lamb,  Spring 
Lamb.  (This  is  Lamb  born  during  the 
winter  and  reared  under  shelter,  and  fed 
almost  entirely  on  milk.  It  is  killed  in 
the  spring,  generally  at  Easter  time,  and 
is  a  regular  accoonpaniment  to  the  Creole 
Easter  dinner.  It  is  a  great  delicacy,  but 
Lamb  that  is  not  over  six  months  ol-l 
makes'  good  eating.) 

Poultry, 

De  la  Volaille. 

Chicken,  Young  Guinea  Fowl,  Green 
Geese,  Young  Ducks,  Capons. 


Poisson. 

Pompano,  Spanish  Mackerel,  Red- 
snapper.  Redfish,  Bluefish,  Grouper,  Sea 
Trout,  Brook  Trout,  Croakers,  Perch,  Sao- 
calait,  Patassas,  Green  Turtle,  Progs* 
Legs,  Hard-shell  Crab,  Soft-shell  Crab, 
Poule  d'Eau. 

Oysters  begin  to  grow  milky  in  the 
latter  part  of  April,  when  kept  standing 
for  any  length  of  time,  and  are,  conse- 
quently, not  eaten  by  the  Creoles,  unless 
they  are  ajt  the  lakeside,  where  the  tooth- 
some bivalve  is  taken  directly  from  the 
waters.  From  April  till  September,  fol 
lowing  the  old  adage  that  Oysters  are 
good  in  every  month  in  -which  an  "R" 
occurs,  the  Oysters  will  disappear  from 
this  list  of  seasonable  fish.  Nevertheless, 
in  nearly  all  the  large  restaurants  of  New 
Orleans  they  are  served. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

Mallard  Ducks,  Canvas-back  Ducks, 
Spring  Teal  Ducks,  Squabs,  Snipe,  Wood- 
cock, Partridge. 

Vegetables. 

Des   Legumes. 

This  is  a  most  interesting  month  In  the 
New  Orleans  markets.  "We  have  all  the 
staple  articles  from  the  open  ground,  but 
besides  Green  (sweet)  Peppers,  Tomatoes 
and  Eggplants,  sown  in  November,  and 
kept  under  glass  until  late  in  March, 
make  their  appearance  in  the  marke*. 
The  general  crop  of  Green  Peas  is  now 
in  the  market,  and  within  the  range  of 
everybody's  purse  New  Potatoes  are 
quite  plentiful  Snap  Beans  are  grad- 
ually  getting  cheaper,   and  thousands   o^ 


bushel  boxes  go  by  express  every  day  to 
Northern  points.  Early  Corn  and  Arti- 
chokes, from  the  Lower  Coast  of  Louisi- 
ana, arrive  with  every  boat.  The  market 
stands:  New  Potatoes,  New  Green  Peas, 
Early  Corn,  Sweet  Green  Peppers,  New 
Tomatoes,  Eggplants,  Hot  Peppers,  Snap 
Beans,  and  all  the  vegetables  mentioned 
in  the  list  for  March.  (See  March  Vege- 
tables.) 

Fruits. 

Des  Fruits. 
The  Japan  Plum,  also  called  the  Med- 
lar, or  Loquet,  and  in  familiar  Creole 
Mespilus,  ripens  in  the  beginning  of 
April,  while  the  Mariana  Plum  comes  in 
towards  the  15th  of  April,  if  the  weather 
is  favorable.  S'trawberries  are  now  plen- 
tiful and  cheap.  Dewberries  and  Black- 
berries are  brought  in  by  the  negroes  iu 
large  quantities,  and  the  cry  fills  tie 
streets.  "We  have  also  a  continued  abun- 
dance of  Apples,  Oranges,  Bananas,  Pine- 
apples, etc. 

MAT. 

Meats. 

Des  Viandes. 
Beef.  Veal,  Mutton,  Lamb,  Pork. 
Poultry. 
De  la  Volaille. 

Spring  Chickens,  Young  Ducks,  Chick- 
ens, Capons,  Green  Geese,  Young  Turkey. 
(Dindonneau,     considered    a    great    dell 
cacy;. 

Fish. 

Poisson. 

The  same  as  for  the  month  of  April. 

Vegetables. 

Des    Legumes. 

During  the  month  of  May  the  New  Or- 
leans markets  are  fairly  glutted  with 
Snap  Beans,  Green  Peas,  Peas,  Lentils, 
Cucumbers,  Young  Onions,  Potatoes,  etc. 
Tomatoes  and  Eggplants  that  have 
ripened  in  the  open  ground  fill  the  stalls. 
Cabbage,  which  does  not  resist  much 
heat  or  drought,  grows  scarce,  as  also 
celery.  Otherwise  the  vegetables  con- 
tinue in  abundance,  the  same  as  found  in 
the  list  for  March.  (See  March  Vege- 
tables.) 

Young  Squash  makes  its  appearance 
this  month,  and  is  plentiful.  The  first 
Muskmelons  arrive  in  New  Orleans  from 
the  parishes  and  gardens  around  the  city 
towards  the  middle  of  May,  and  Water- 
melons come  in  fine  and  tempting  at  the 
close  of  May,  Carloads  of  Creole  Oniop;? 
and  New  Potatoes  are  shipped  North. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

The  game  laws  new  begin  to  be  en- 
forced, and,  with  the  exception  of  Sand 
Snipe  and  Reed  Birds,  we  have  little 
game  until  the  1st  of  September,  when 
the  hunting  season  opens. 

Frnlts. 

Des  Fruits. 

The  first  peaches  ripen  together  with 
the  large-fruited  Plums.  In  a  week  or  so 
these  fruits  overrun  the  market.  Figs 
begin  to  ripen  towards  the  end  of  the 
month,  providing  the  weather  was  warm 
during  April.  Oranges,  Bananas,  Pine- 
apples, etc.,  continue  plentiful. 


280 


JUNE. 

Meats. 

Des   Viandes. 

Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Lamb,  Pork  Is 
eschewed  in  New  Orleans  from  June  to 
the  beginning  of  October  and  November, 
as,  from  hygienic  principles,  it  should 
never  be  eaten  In  warm  weather. 

Poultry. 

De  la  VolalUe. 

S'pring  Chickens,  Chickens,  Geese, 
Young  Turkeys,  Pigeons. 


Glbler. 

The    famous    Pababotte    makes    Its    ap- 
pearance this  month,   and  remaliis  a  de- 
lightful article  of  food  till  the  middle  of 
October.     In  the  months   of  August  and 
September  they  are   very   fat  and   excel- 
lent and  a  game  much  prized  by  epicures 
and   connoisseurs.     Reed   Birds,   Grasseta, 
Robins,   Larks,   which   are   the   terror   or 
the   rice    planters,   appear   in   abundance, 
and  overrun  the  market. 
Pish. 
Poisson. 
The  same  as  for  the  month  of  April. 
Vegetables. 
Des  Legumes. 

Melons  are  gradually  gaining  the  first 
place  in  the  market,  and  are  shipped  to 
all  points.  Peas  are  beginning  to  get 
scarce.  Celery  is  now  supplied  by  the 
Northern  markets  and  is  found  in  abun- 
dance. Butterbeans  and  Lima  Beans  ap- 
pear in  the  market,  and  are  in  great  de- 
mand, especially  the  Butterbeans.  The 
market  stands:  Butterbeans,  Snap  Beans, 
Green  Peas,  Celery,  Lima  Beans,  Bests, 
Carrots,  Chervil,  Cress,  Cornsalad,  Cauli- 
flower, Corn,  Endive,  Spinach,  Salslf.v, 
Sorrel,  Lettuce,  Parsley,  Parsnips,  Rad- 
ish, Roquette,  Mustard,  Turnips,  Ijeeks 
and  Ruta'baga. 

Fruits. 

Des  Fruits. 

Peaches    and    Plums    arrive    In    large 
quantities.       The     Lecomte     Pears     and 
Grapes  ripen  quickly  under  the  hot  r*ys 
of   the    June   sun,    and    are   soon   within 
reach  of  everyone's  purse.    Pigs  are  plen- 
tiful,   aBd    are  being  bought    up   by   the 
canning    establishments,    but    almost    all 
the  ancient  homes  of  New  Orleans  have 
fig  trees  In  their  gardens  or  yards,  and 
the  luscious  tropical   fruit  is  within  the 
reach  of  all.    Strawberries,  Blackberries, 
Dewberries,    Bananas,    Oranges,    Plneai>- 
ples,    Muskmelons,    Cantaloupes,    Water- 
melons,   which   may  be   properly    classed 
under  the  heading  of  fruits,  because  they 
are   eaten   as    such   for  desserts   In   New 
Orleans,  are  everywhere  in  abundance 
JUI.T. 
Meats, 
Des  Viandes. 
Beef,  Mutton,  Lamb,  Veal. 
Poultry. 
De    la    Volaille. 

Chickens,  Young  Geese,  Spring  Chick- 
ens,   Plgreons. 

Game, 
Glbler. 
Pababotte,  Reed   Birds,   Grassets,  Rob- 
ins, Ijarks,  Quail. 


Poisson. 

The  same  supplies  as  for  the  month  of 
April.     (See  April  Fish.) 

Vegetables. 

Des   Legumes. 

To  use  the  familiar  saying  of  the  New 
Orleans  dealers,  "The  "Watermelon  is  now 
the  boss  of  the  market."  It  is  placed  on 
ice  and  eaten  at  any  hour  of  the  day,  be- 
ing most  cooling  and  refreshing.  Vege- 
tables produced  with  much  hard  work 
cannot  now  compete  with  the  popularity 
of  the  Watermelon,  which  is  a  favorite 
with  all  classes,  and  is  put  on  the  market 
in  such  enormous  quantities  that  they  are 
almost  given  away.  Carloads  arrive  each 
day  from  the  parishes  and  from  the  truck 
farms  around  New  Orleans,  and  they  are 
bought  up  as  fast  as  offered.  One  famous 
specimen,  recently  called  the  "Triumph,'* 
weighing  from  ninety  to  one  hundred 
pounds,  was  found  to  be  as  sweet  as 
honey.  Other  vegetables  are  the  same  as 
in  June.     (See  June.) 

Fruits. 

Des  Fruits. 

Pears,  Grapes  and  Peaches  continue  in 
abundance.  The  Fig  Is  everyTvhere,  and 
Strawberries,  Blackberries,  Oranges  and 
Pineapples  are  cheap.  Lemons  are  in 
great  demand,  the  Creoles  using  large 
quantities  of  tills  cooling  Iced  Lraionade 
all  during  the  summer  months. 

AUGUST. 

Meats. 

Des  Viandes. 

Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Liamb. 

Poultry. 

De  la  VolaUle. 

Chicken,  Young  Geese,  Young  Guinea 
Fowl,    Pigeons. 

Game. 

Glbler. 
Papabotte,   Reed  Birds,   Grassets,   Rob- 
ins, Larks,  Squab. 


Poisson. 

The  same  supplies  as  for  the  month  of 
June.     (See  June  Fish.) 

Vegetables. 

Des  liegumes. 

Snap  Beans,  Peas,  Eggplant,  Squash, 
Cucumber,  Corn,  Liettuce,  Carrots,  Beets, 
Parsnips,  Spinach,  Potatoes,  Tomatoes, 
Butterbeans,  Lima  Beans,  Onions,  Shal- 
lots, Green  Peppers,  Broccoli,  CaullflowCT 

August  Is  the  poorest  of  all  months  for 
vegetables.  The  Snap  Beans  begin  to  get 
hard  and  stringy;  and  the  lettuce  soft 
under  the  rays  of  the  sun.  But  people 
are  quite  content.  Melons  continue  In 
abundance,  and  the  markets  are  stockel 
with  fruits,  so  grateful  In  our  clime,  and 
all  know  that  in  a  month  there  will  he  a, 
new  crop  of  autumn  vegetables. 

Frnits. 

Des  Fruits. 

Peaches,  Pears,  Plums,  Grapes,  Figs, 
Mespllus,  Oranges,  Bananas,  Pineapples, 
Lemons,  Grape  Fruit,  are  all  In  abun- 
dance. 


281 


SEPTEMBER. 
Meats. 

Des    Viandes. 
Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Lamb. 
Poultry. 
De    la    Volaille. 
Sprinfr  Chicken,  Young  Turkeys,  Geese, 
Guinea  Fowl,  Pigeons,  Domestic  Ducks. 

Game. 

Glbler. 

Woodcock,  Snipe,  Liarks,  Wild  Ducks, 
Canvas-back  Ducks,  Partridges,  Quail, 
Squab,  Mallard  Ducks  and  Teal  Ducks 
are  rare. 

rish. 

Poisson. 

Pompano,  Redsnapper,  Redtish,  Span- 
ish Mackerel,  Flounder,  Grouper,  Blue- 
fish,  Sheepshead,  Trout,  Croakers,  Green 
Turtle,  Terrapin,  Frogs,  Hard-shell  Crab, 
Soft-shell  Crab,  Lake  Shrimp,  Rlvor 
Shrimp,  Crawfish.  The  Oyster  is  with  us 
again,  and  remains  a  delightful  article  of 
food  till  the  latter  part  of  April. 

Vegetableg. 

Des  Legumes. 

Potatoes,  Turnips,  Artichokes,  Peas, 
Beans,  Carrots,  Onions,  Tomatoes,  Sal- 
sify, Mushrooms,  Lettuce,  Sorrel,  Celery, 
Brussels  Sprouts,  Cauliflower,  Sweet  Po- 
tatoes, S'quash,  Eggplant,  Cucumber, 
Green  Pepper,  Parsnips,  Cress. 
Frnitg. 
Des  Fruits. 

Fruits  throughout  September  continue 
the  same  as  in  August,  with  still  mora 
generous  supplies  of  Oranges,  Bananas 
and  Pineapples. 

OCTOBER. 

Meats, 

Des   Viandes. 
Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Lamb,  Pork. 
Poultry. 
De  la  Volaille. 

Turkey,  Chicken,  Spring  Chicken,  Geess, 
Guinea  Fowl,  Domestic  Duck,  Pigeons. 

Game. 

Glbier. 

Venison,  Canvas-back  Duck,  Woodcock, 
Snipe,  Partridge,  Quail,  Reed  Birds, 
Larks,  Grassets,  Robins, .Squab,  Mallard 
and  Teal  Ducks  continue  to  be  rare  till 
November. 

Fish. 
Poisson. 

Pompano,  Redsnapper,  Redfish,  Span- 
ish Mackerel.  Sheepshead,  Flounder, 
Grouper,  Bluefish,  Trout,  Croakers,  Green 
Turtle,  Terrapin,  Poule  d'Eau,  Frogs, 
Hard-shell  Crab,  Soft-shell  Crab,  Lake 
and  River  Shrimp,  Crawfish,  Oysters. 

Vegetables. 

Des    Legumes. 

'Snap  Beans  and  Green  Corn  sotto  in 
the  end  of  August  and  early  In  Septem- 
ber, are  with  us  again  in  abundance. 
Radishes  are  juicy  and  brittle.  Turnips 
are  young  and  tender,  and  appear  on 
time,  to  serve  with  "Salmi  of  Wild 
Ducks."  Blood  Beets  and  Toung  Carrots 
add  to  the  assortment  of  vegetables, 
which    gradually   increases   and   assumes 


Che  diversity  of  the  crops  of  the  early 
spring.  All  the  vegetables  that  are  found 
under  the  lists  for  March  and  April  are 
again  with  us  in  October.  (See  lists  fop 
March  and  April.) 

Frnlts. 

Des  Fruits. 

The  first  Louisiana  Oranges  from  the 
spring  budding  appear  in  the  market  this 
month,  the  Creole  and  the  S'atsumas  be- 
ing the  first  to  ripen.  Other  fruits  are 
Peaches,  Pears,  Plums,  Grapes,  Oranges 
Bananas,  Pineapples  and  some  late  Figs. 

NOVEMBER. 

Meats. 

Des  Viandes. 

Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Lamb,  Pork. 

Poultry. 

De    la    Volaille. 

Turkey,  Chickens,  Spring  Chickens, 
Domestic  Ducks  and  Pigeons. 

Game. 

Gibier. 

Canvas-back  Ducks,  Wild  Ducks  of 
many  varieties,  Woodcock,  Snipe,  Part- 
ridges, Robins,  Larks,  Reed  Birds,  Quail, 
Rabbits,  Hares,  Squirrel,  Venison,  Teal 
Ducks  and  Mallard  Ducks  are  abundant. 
Poule  d'Eau  appears  in  November. 
Fish. 
Poisson. 

All  varieties  found  under  the  list  for 
October  hold  good  for  November.  (See 
list  for  October.) 

Vegetables. 

Des    Legumes. 

The  market  is  now  splendid  with  a 
variety  of  vegetables,  principally  Snap 
Beans,  New  Corn,  Butterbeans,  Beets, 
Cabbage,  Carrots,  Chervil,  Celery,  Cress, 
Cornsalads,  Cauliflower,  Endive,  Spinach. 
Salsify,  Sorrel,  Lettuce,  Parsley,  Parsnips, 
Roquette,  Mustard,  Turnips,  Leeks,  Ruta- 
baga, Brocoli. 

In  new  vegetables  we  have  now  the 
second  crop  of  New  Potatoes,  that  were 
planted  by  the  farmers  in  August.  The 
Crooked-neck  Pumpkin,  or  Cashaw,  Is 
with  us,  and  is  in  demand,  as  also  the 
Globe  Pumpkin.  The  Sweet  Potatoes  con- 
tinue to  'arrive  in  abundance.  The  fi^•^t 
New  Cabbage  reaches  the  market,  as  also 
New  Lettuce,  Spinach,  Turnips,  Kohl- 
rabi, so  much  eaten  by  the  Italian  popu- 
lation, and  other  vegetables  are  most 
plentiful  and  cheap. 

Fruits. 
Des  Fruits. 

The  Louisiana  Orange  has  now  con- 
quered the  fruit  market,  and  reigns  su- 
preme over  all  other  fruits.  Thousands 
of  trees  planted  since  the  terrible  freeze 
of  1899,  it  may  be  incidentally  mentioned, 
are  now  bearing  fruit,  and  if  spared  for 
a  few  years  will  bring  abundant  returns 
to  the  Louisiana  orange  growers.  It 
would  seem  that  no  fruit  tree  offers  such 
inducements  to  the  planter,  and  even  If 
a  freeze  should  kill  the  trees  every  six 
or  eieht  years,  it  still  pays  to  grov? 
oranges  in  Louisiana.  Among  other  fruits 
are  Bananas,  Pears,  Pineapples,  C^ierries, 
Grapes,  etc. 

Nuts. 

Noix. 

The    Louisiana    Pecan    now    makes    Its 


282 


appearance  in  the  market.  Pecans  are 
now  being  planted  on  a  large  scale,  for 
the  demand  for  Louisiana  nuts  has  never 
been  supplied.  The  owners  of  pecaa 
trees  have  the  nuts  gathered  up  and  sent 
to  market  against  the  great  demand  sure 
to  follow  in  the  approaching  Christmas 
holidays. 

DECEMBEB. 

Meats. 

Des   Viandes. 

Beef,  Veal,    Mutton,   Pork. 

Poultry. 

De  la  Volaille. 

Turkeys,  Chickens,  Spring  Chickens, 
Capons,  Geese,  Domestic  Ducks,  Guinea 
Fowl. 

Game. 
Gibier. 

Venison,  S'nipe,  Woodcock,  Partridge, 
Robins,  Grassets,  L,arks,  Squab,  Canvas- 
back  Ducks,  Mallard  Ducks,  Teal  Ducks, 
Quail,  Rabbits,  Hare,  Squirrel  and  a 
number  of  game  of  good  varieties. 
Fish. 
Poisson. 

All  fish  common  to  the  New  Orleans 
markets  in  the  months  of  January  and 
November  hold  for  December.  Fish  now 
has  a  most  excellent  flavor,  and  is  found 
daily  on  our  tables. 

Vegetables. 

Des  Legumes. 
All    vegetables    common    to    November 
(see  list)  are  plentiful  in  December. 

rrults. 

Des  Fruits. 

All  fruits  common  to  November  (see 
lists)  are  common  to  December.  It  is  the 
holiday  season  and  the  markets  are  abun- 
dantly supplied. 

In  the   Groceries   at   All    Seasons. 

Meats. 

Canned  Beef,  Corned  Beef,  Chipped 
Beef,  Canned  Beef  and  Pork  Tongui, 
Ham,  Salt  Pork,  Deviled  Ham,  Breakfast 
Bacon,  Pigs'  Feet,  Sausage,  Lyonnalse 
Sausage,  Hogs'  Head  Cheese,  Extract  of 
Beef.  Canned  meats  are  not  generally 
used  In  New  Orleans  in  summer,  but 
they  are  much  used  as  luncheon  aii4 
supper  dishes  in  winter. 

Fowl. 

Canned  Turkey,  Chicken,  Ducks,  Pig- 
eons,  Foies  Gras,  etc.  All  these  are  used 
more  generally  in  winter. 

FlBh. 

Salt  Codfish,  Salt  Mackerel,  Herrings, 
Salt  Roe,  S'moked  Salmon,  Smoked  Hail- 
but,  Canned  Lobster,  Canned  Shrimp, 
Canned  Salmon,  Canned  Oysters,  Sar- 
dines, Anchovies,  Anchovy  Butter,  Cav- 
iars. 

Game, 

Dried  Venison,  Buffalo  Tongue,  Wild 
Meats,  etc. 

Vegetables. 

Canned  Corn,  Green  Peas,  Asparagus, 
Tomatoes,  Cauliflower,  Cabbage,  BrocoU, 
Cucumbers  (pickles),  Lima  Beans,  Dried 
White  and  Red  Beans,  Split  Peas,  Kidney 
Peas,  Carrots,  Parsnips  and  Horseradish. 
Frnlts. 

Lemons,   Canned   Peaches,  Pears,   Pine- 


apples, Cherries,  Grapes,  Plums,  Dam- 
sons, Grapefruit,  Cranberries,  Strawber- 
ries, Raspberries,  Blackberries,  Currant*. 
All  the  above  canned  fruits  made  into 
jellies,  marmalades  and  preserves.  All 
manner  of  Preserves,  Confitures,  Dried 
Apples,  Dried  Peaches. 

Pickles    and    Sances. 

Chow-chcTV,  Mixed,  Sweet  Cucumber, 
Gherkins,  Green  Tomatoes,  Sweet  Toma- 
to, Cauliflower,  Pickled  Onions,  etc.  All 
kinds  of  Sauces  and  Salad  Dressings  gen- 
erally. 

Nnts. 

Pecans,  Peanuts,  Filberts,  Hickory 
Nuts,  Brazilian  Nuts,  English  Walnuts- 
Walnuts,  Chestnuts  (in  season),  Louisi- 
ana Pecans. 

MENUS. 

The  Times-Picavune  will  now  proceed 
to  give  several  forms  of  daily  menus,- 
which  will  greatly  assist  the  housekeep-3r 
in  forming  the  individual  "Menu"  that 
w^ill  suit  her  purse  and  the  taste  of  her 
household. 

The  following  Menus  are  Intended  as 
weekly  suggestions  for  Breakfast,  Lunch 
eon  and  Dinner.  Two  sets  are  given — one 
for  families  whose  means  will  permit  of 
a  more  elaborate  expenditure  of  money, 
the  other  for  families  of  limited  means. 
A  set  of  Menus  intervene  -which  is  intend- 
ed as  a  special  suggestion  for  holiday 
feasts.  These  Menus  have  been  prepared 
with   especial   care. 

W^ith  modifications,  as  regards  fish 
and  game,  especially,  the  folio-wing  HenU9 
may  be  adapted  to  any  section: 

WEEKLY     SUGGESTIONS. 

Menn    for   Monday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced   Oranges. 
Boiled  Grits.     Milk  or  Oeam. 
Fried    (jroakers.     Olives. 
Broiled   Spring  Chicken.     Potajto  Cro- 
quettes. 
Radishes.     Watercress. 
Batter  Cakes.     Butter.     Louisiana  SjfTup. 
Cafe  au  Lait. 
The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oysters  on   Half  Shell.     Oyster  Crackers. 

Pickles. 

Thin    Slices   of  Cold  Ham. 

Lettuce   Salad,    French   Dressing. 

Brie    Cheese.     Lemon    Jelly    Wafers. 

DINNER. 

Okra  Gumbo. 
Celery.     Olives.     Salted   Almonds. 
Boiled    Sheepshead,    Cream    Sauce. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Roast  Filet  of  Beef,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Boiled  Rice.    (Jreen  Peas. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes.     Asparagus. 

Beet   S'alad.   French   Dressing. 

Queen's    Pudding,    'Wine    Sauce. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

Roquefort.     Fruit.     Louisiana  Nuts. 

Cafe  Nolr. 

Menu  for  Tuesday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Small  Hominy,  Sugar  and  Cream. 

Boiled  Trout.  Sauce  a  la  Creme. 

Broiled  Tenderloin  Steak. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. 

Celery.    Radishes. 

French  Rolls.     Butter.     Cafe  au  Lalt. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 


28J 


LUNCHEON. 

River  Shrimp  on  Ice. 

Cold  Roast  Veal. 

Tomato  Salad,  Mayonnaise  Dressing:. 

Hominy  Croquettes.     Celery. 

Cup   Cake.    Raspberry  Jelly.    Cheese. 

Tea   or  Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Cream   of   Tomato  Soup,   with   Croutons. 
Celery.     Olives.     Mangoes. 
Oyster   Patties   a   la   Reine. 
Noyau  of  Beef  With  Mushrooms. 
New  Potatoes  a  la  Parislenne. 
Louisiana  Rice. 
Roast   Canvas-baclc   Duck,   Mashed   Tur- 
nips. 
Cauliflower  au  Vinaigrette. 
Cnarlotte    Russe.     Orange    Sherbet. 
Wafers.    Neufchatel. 
Strawberry    Jam.     Fruits.     Nuts. 
Cafe  Nolr. 

Menu  for  Wednesday, 

BREAKFAST. 

Prunes  or  Iced  Figs   (In  Season). 

Wheatena.     Milk. 

Broiled    Tenderloin    Trout,    Sauce    a,    la 

Tartare. 

Potato   Chips.    Olives. 

Broiled  Ham.    Scrambled  Eggs. 

French  Toast.     Butter. 

Cafe  au  Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 
Caviars  sur  Canapes. 
Cold   Duck.    Lettuce  S'alad.    Rice   Cro- 
quettes. 
White  Mountain  Cake. 
Compote  of  Peaches.    Cheese. 
Tea.     Milk. 

DINNER. 

Bayou  Cook  Oysters. 

Spanish   Olives.     Celery. 

Consomme  de  Volaille. 

Broiled    Sheepshead,    Sauce   a    la    Faitre 

d'Hotel. 

Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse. 

Lamb   Cutlets    Breaded,    Sauce   Soublsse. 

String   Beans.    Stuffed   Cabbage. 

Spinach   with   Hard-Boiled  Eggs. 

Roast    Leg    of    Mutton,    Mint    Sauce. 

Roquette  Salad,  IVench  Dressing. 

Lemon   Pudding. 

Roquefort. 

Strawberry  Ice.     Fruit.    Nuts. 

Cafe  Noir. 

Menu  for  Thursday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Oatmeal.    Cream. 

Broiled  Patassas.    Potato  Croquettes. 

Cress.     Salt.     Olives. 

Fried   Liver   and   Bacon.     Staall  Hominy. 

Poached   Eggs   on   Toast. 

Waffles.     Louisiana  Syrup.     Butter. 

Cafe   au   Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

River  Shrimp  on  Ice. 

Fish    Croquettes.     Olives. 

Cold    Mutton.     Potato    Salad.     French 

Rolls. 

Brioche.     Orange  Marmalade.     Fruit. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Green  Turtle  Soup.     Croutons. 

Radishes.    Celery.    Olives.    Pickles. 

Vol-au-Vent  o*  Oysters 

Veal  Saute  aux  Champignons. 

Rice.    Squash. 

Potatoes  a  la  Creme. 


Roman  Punch. 

Roast  Mallard  Duck.     Green  Peas. 

Banana   Fritters. 

Watercress  Salad.    Asparagus. 

Pea^h  Pie.    Roquefort. 

Biscuit   Glace.    Assorted    Cakes.     Fruit 

Cafe  Noir. 

Menu  for  Friday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries  and   Cream. 

Oatmeal,    Cream. 

Broiled  Oysters  on  Toaat. 

Olives.    Celery. 

Fried  Perch.    Small  Hominy. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

Corn  Batter  Bread.    Butter.    Louisiana 

Syrup. 

Cafe  au   Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell. 
Fish   Croquettes.    Crackers.    Pickles. 

Chicoree  Salad. 
Apple   Float.     Sponge   Cake.     Fruit- 
Cheese. 
Tea  or  Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Oysters  on  Ice. 
Bisque  d'Ecrevisse  (Crawfish  Bisque). 

Radishes.    Cress.    Celery.    Olives. 

Broiled  Fompano,  S'auce  a  la  Maltre 

d'Hotel. 

Julienne  Potatoes. 

Baked  Redsnapper  a  la  Creole. 

Butterbeans.     New  Corn   on   the  Cob. 

Boiled  Young  Creole  Onions. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

Macaroni  or  Spaghetti  a  la  Creole. 

Salad  a  la  Louisianaise. 

Riz  au  Lait.    Angel  Cake. 

Assorted  Fruit. 

Lemon   'Wafers.     Neufchatel. 

Raisins.     Nuts. 

Cafe  Noir. 

Menn    for    Saturday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Muskmelon  on  Ice. 

Grits.     Milk. 

Stewed   Tripe.     Omelette   a  la   Creole. 

Olives. 

Snipe  on  Toast. 

Flannel  Cakes.     Louisiana  Syrup. 

Cafe   au   Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Anchovies. 

p^sh    Salad,    Mayonnaise   Dressing. 

French   Bread.     Deviled    Ham.     Crackers. 

Blackberry   Pie.     Cheese    Straws. 

Watermelon  on  Ice. 

Tea  or  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Cream  c*  Asparagus  Soup. 

Celery.     French    Olives.    Pickles. 

BouilHabaisse  (Redfish  and  Red-snapper). 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel, 

Chicken   Saute  aux   Petits   Pols. 

Boiled  Rice. 

Parsnips.     Carrots  a  la  Creole. 

Roast  Venison,  Currant  Jelly. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Green  Pepper  and  Tomato  Salad,  French 

Dressing. 

Peach  Meringue  Pie.     Roquefort.     Fruit. 

Cafe  Noir. 

Menu  for  Sunday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Peaches  and  Cream. 

Cracked  Wheat,  Milk. 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel. 


284 


Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Julienne  Poitatoes. 

Radishes.     Cress.     Olives. 

Creamed  Chicken.     Small  Hominy. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

Broiled  Woodcock  (Becasse)  on  .-.oast. 

Rice   Cakes.       Butter.       Louisiana  Syrui4= 

Cafe   au   Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Gumbo  File. 
Radishes.     Cress.     Olives. 

Salted  Almonds. 

Courtbouillon  a  la  Creole. 

Potato    Puffs. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Creole. 

Green    Peas. 

Ponche  a  la  Cardinale. 

Roast   Turkey,    Cranberry   Sauce. 

Broiled   Tomatoes,     Stuffed  Artichokes. 

Celery  Salad,  French  Dressing. 

Broiled  Quail  on  Toast.     Asparagus. 

Nesselrode  Pudding. 

Almond  Macaroons.     Pineapple  Ice. 

Assorted   Cakes.     Fruit.     Assorted   Nuts. 

Edam  Cheese. 

Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Oysters  o^i  Half  Shell. 

Cold  Turkey.     Tomato  Salad.     French 

Toast. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Cheese.     Fig  Preserves.     Fruit. 

Tea.     Milk. 

MENUS    FOB    HOLIDAY   PEA8T8   AND 
BANQUETS. 

A  New  Year's  Menu. 

Menu  Pour  le  Jour  de  I'An. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 
Oatmeal,   Cream. 
Radishes.     Cress.     Olives. 
Broiled  Trout,  Sauce  a  la  Tartare. 
Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse. 
Creamed    Chicken.     Omelette    aux    Con- 
fitures. 
Salade  a  la  Creole. 
Batter  Cakes,  Louisiana  Syrup. 
Fresh  Butter. 
Cafe   au   Lait. 
The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 
DINNER. 
Oysters  on  Half  Shell 
Spanish    Olives.     Celery.     Pickles 
Salted  Almonds. 
T3     •,   ?''?,^°  Turtle  Soup,  Croutons. 
Broiled    Spanish    Mackerel,    Sauce    u    la 
Maitre  d'lHotel. 
Julienne   Potatoes. 
Lamb  Cutlets  Breaded,  Sauce  Soublse. 
Green  Peas. 
Sweetbreads  a. la  Creole. 
Ponche  a  la  Romaine. 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce. 
Baked  Tams.    Cauliflower  au  Gratln 
Asparagus  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel 
Lettuce,  Salad  Dressing. 
Broiled    Snipe    on    Toast. 
Ponding  a  la  Relne,  Wine  Sauce 
Mince  Pie. 
Cocoanut  Custard  Pie. 
Biscuit    Glace.     Petits    Flours.     Fruits 
Nuts.     Raisins. 
Cheese.     Toasted  Crackers. 
Cafe   Noir. 
SUPPER. 
Cold  Turkey,  Currant  Jelly. 
Celery  Salad. 
French  Rolls.     Butter.     Assorted  Cake:i. 
Fruits.     Nuts. 
Tea. 


A    More    Economical    New    Year's    Menu, 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced    Oranges. 
Oatmeal  and  Cream. 
Broil  jd    Spring   Chicken.     Julienne   Pota- 
toes.    Radishes.     Celery. 
Egg    Muffins.     Fresh    Butter.     Louisiana 
Syrup. 
Cafe   au   Lait. 
The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Consomme. 

Radishes.     Celery.     Olives.     Pickles. 

Boiled  Sheepshead,  Cream  Sauce. 

Mashed   Potatoes. 

Vol-au-Vent  of  Chicken. 

Salmi  of  Wild  Duck.     Green  Peas. 

Banana  Fritters. 

Roast   Turkey,   Cranberry   Sauce. 

Baked    Yams,    Sliced   and   Buttered. 

Green  Pepper  and  Tomato  Salad,  French 

Dressing. 

Pointes    d'Asperges    au    Beurre. 

Mince  Pie.     Roquefort, 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream.     Sponge  Cake. 

Assorted  Fruits.     Nuts.  Raisins. 

Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Cake.     Fruit.     Tea. 

A    New    Year's    Decoration. 

On  New  Tear's  Day,  no  matter  how 
humble  her  circumstances,  the  Creole 
housewife  will  .have  freshly  bloomlnis 
roses  on  her  table.  In  our  delightful 
climate,  where  flowers  bloom  the  year 
round,  and  where,  in  winter,  especially, 
roses  are  in  their  zenith  of  glory,  there 
are  tew  homes,  indeed,  in  which  a  patdi 
of  ground  is  not  set  aside  for  the  cultiva- 
tion of  flowers;  while  in  the  lovely  open 
gardens  in  the  "Garden  District  of  New 
Orleans"  roses  in  exquisite  bloom  over- 
run the  trellises  and  arbors  and  smlJe 
upon  you  from  the  fancifully  lald-om 
garden  beds.  It  is  wonderful  how  a  bit 
of  green,  with  a  few  roses  nestling  be- 
tween, will  brighten  up  the  homeliest 
table. 

Menu    for    Easter    Sunday. 
BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries   and   Cream. 

Small  Hominy,  Milk. 

Boiled   Tenderloin   Trout,   Sauce  a  la 

Creme. 

Potatoes  a  la  Parislenne. 

Cress.       Radishes.       Olives. 

Breakfast  Bacon.     Scrambled  Eggs. 

Broiled  Woodcock  on  "Toast. 

Flannel  Cakes.     Louisiana  Syrup. 

Cafe  au   Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Caviars  sur  Canapes. 

Oysrter  Soup.     Crackers. 

Mangoes.     Olives.     Salad  Almonds. 

Broiled  Pompano,  Sauce  a  la  Haitre 

d'Hotel. 

Pigeons  Slautes  aux  Champignons. 

Ponche  a  la  Cardinale. 

Roast    Lamb.     Mint   Sauce.     Green    Peas. 

Cauliflower  au  Beurre. 

Asparagus. 

Salade  aux  Laitues  et  aux  CerfeuUs. 

Teal  Duck  sur  Canapes. 

Angel    Cake.     Brandled    Peaches.     Lemon 

Ice.    Bouches  Glacees. 

Fruit.     Nuts.     Raisins.     Roquefor» 

Cafe  Noir. 


285 


SUPPER. 

Warmed-over  Lamb.     Currant  Jelly. 

Celery  Salad. 

Waffles.     Louisiana   Syrup.     Fruit. 

Tea. 

An   £aster    Decoration. 

On  Easter  Sunday  the  dinner  table 
should  always  be  decked  with  flowers,  or 
at  least  some  bit  of  green  indicative  not 
only  of  the  resurrection  of  all  nature,  but 
also  of  the  most  glorious  festival  of  the 
year.  A  beautiful  decoration  for  those 
who  can  afford  it  is  to  arrange  a  cut- 
glass  bowl  on  a  mirror  and  fill  it  with 
Maiden-hair  Fern  and  Calla  Lilies.  Fill 
the  center  of  the  Calla  Lilies  with  sprays 
of  Maiden-hair  Fern;  garnish  the  edges 
of  the  mirror  with  bits  of  fern  and 
smilax,  and  the  effect  of  all  will  be  a 
miniature  pond,  with  the  lilies  reflected 
within  and  the  banks  overrun  wl'ih 
smilax. 

If  this  decoration  is  beyond  your 
means,  the  home  gardens  are  filled  at 
this  season  with  hyacinths,  and  violets, 
and  narcissus.  Smilax  runs  wild  in  our 
Louisiana  woods,  especially  around  New 
Orleans,  and  is  to  be  had  for  the  gath- 
ering. A  bowl  of  hyacinths  or  violets, 
or  sprays  of  roses,  mingled  with  Maiden- 
hair fern  or  even  a  simple  bowl  of  smilax, 
young  mint  and  rose  leaf  greenery,  will 
make  the  table  beautiful,  and  whisper  the 
Saster  message  to  the  heart. 

A    ThankBgriving    Menn. 

Henu   Pour  le  Jour   d'Action   de    Graces. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Oatflakes  and  Milk. 

Oysters  on  Toast. 

Broiled  Tenderloin  Steaks.     Potato  Chips. 

Milk  Biscuits.     Butter. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes.     Louisiana  Syrup. 

Cafe  Noir. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

■    DINNER. 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell. 
Crea;m  of  Asparagus  Soup. 
Spanish    Olives.     Celery.     Mixed    Picklea. 
Radishes.     Salted  Almonds. 
Baked  Redsnapper  a  la  Creole. 
Mashed  Potatoes. 
Lamb  Chops  au  Petit  Pols. 
■        Chicken  Saute  aux  Champignons. 
Cauliflower,  S'auce  Blanche. 
Pineapple   Fritters    au   Rhum. 
Pates  de  Foies  Gras. 
Stuffed  Tomatoes. 
Turkey    Stuffed    W^ith    Chestnuts,    Cran- 
berry Sauce. 
Endive  Salad,  French  Dressing. 
Pababotte  a  la  Creole. 
Plum  Pudding,  Hard  or  Brandy  Sauce. 
Pumpkin   Pie. 
Lemon  Sherbet.    Assorted  Cakes. 
Assorted  BVuits.    Assorted  Nuts.    Raisins. 
Neufchatel. 
Quince  Marmalade.     Crackers. 
Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold    Turkey.     Tomato    Salad. 

Crackers. 

Cake.    Fruit.    Tea. 

A     More     Economical     ,Thank8plvliiE 
Dinner. 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell. 

Shrimp  Gumbo. 

Radishes.    Celery.    Olives.    Pickles. 

Soles  a  la  Orly.    Julienne  Potatoes. 

Chicken  Croquettes  With  Mushrooms. 

Banana  Fritters. 

Roast  Turkey,  Oyster  Stuffing, 


Cranberry  Sauce. 

Young  Squash.     Macaroni  au  Gratin. 

Small   Onions,   Boiled  Sauce  a  la   Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

Cauliflower  au  Vinaigrette. 

Plum  Pudding.     Mince  or  Pumpkin  Pie. 

Pineapple  Slierbet. 

Assorted    Cakes.     Nuts.     Raisins.     Fruit. 

Cheese. 

A    ThaQksg:ivine:    Decoration. 

For  the  Thanksgiving  table  nothing  Is 
more  appropriate  in  the  way  of  decora- 
tions than  autumn  leaves  and  berries. 
The  woods  at  this  seasc-n  are  full  of  beau- 
tiful trailing  vines,  of  bronze  and  red; 
brilliant  boughs,  leaves,  cones  and  ber- 
ries, all  of  which  are  most  appropriate  on 
this  day,  suggesting,  by  their  wild  lux- 
uriance and  freedom  of  growth,  the  spirit 
of  American  liberty,  which  gave  birth  to 
the  day.  If  it  is  cold,  in  lieu  of  the  usual 
coal  fire,  light  a  blazing  fire  of  pine 
knot,  and  you  will  have  a  glorious 
American  illumination. 

The  favors  may  consist  of  tiny  Amer- 
ican flags,  resting  amid  a  cluster  of 
autumn  leaves  and  Maiden-hair  Fern,  Jf 
a  formal  dinner  is  given,  the  syra.- 
bol  at  our  country  may  also  be  suggested 
in  festoons  of  narrow  red,  white  and  blue 
streamers  of  ribbon,  gracefully  dropping 
from  the  chandeliers. 

Menu   for   Christmas. 

Menu  Pour  la  Noel. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  Oranges. 

Boiled   Grits   and   Cream. 

Celery.     Olives.     Radishes. 

Fried  Croakers,  Sauce  a  la  Tartare. 

Potato  Chips. 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops.     Small  Hominy. 

Corn  Cakes.    Butter.    Louisiana  Syrup. 

Cafe  au  Lait. 

The    Christmas    Times-Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Bayou  Cook  Oysters. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

Spanish  Olives. 

Celery.    Toung  Onions,  Pickled. 

Radishes.     Salted  Almonds. 

Bouilliabaisse   (Redsnapper  and  Redflsh). 

Louisiana  Rice. 

Potatoes  au  Beurre  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Vol-au-Vent  of  Pigeons. 

Green  Peas,  Buttered. 

Souffle    of    Bananas,    au    Rhum,    or 

Maraschino.     Punch. 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Artichokes  on  Beurre  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Sliced  Cucumbers  au  Vinaigrette. 

Asparagus. 

Broiled  Snipe  on  Toast. 

Pouding  a  la  Reine,  Wine  Sauce. 

Mince  Pie.     Apple  Pie. 

Strawberry     Ice.     Bouchees.     Massepains. 

Petits  Fours. 

Assorted  Fruits.    Assorted  Nuts.     Raisins. 

Bonbons  a  la  Creole. 

Edam     Cheese    or    Roquefort. 

Water  Crackers. 

Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold  Turkey.     Tomato  Salad. 

Crackers.     Cake. 

Marmalade    of    Apricots.     Cheese.     Fruit. 

Tea. 

A    More    Economical    Christmas    Menn. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Grits  and  Milk. 

Broiled  Chicken.     Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse. 


286 


Omelette  a  la   Creole. 
Batter    Cakes.     Louisiana   Syrup. 

Cafe  au  Lalt. 
The  Christmas  Times-Picayune. 

DINNER. 

River  Shrimp  on  Ice. 

Celery. 

Radishes.     Spanish  Olives. 

Salted  Almonds. 

Julienne  Soup. 

Broiled    Green    Trout,    Sauce   Eemoulade 

Potatoes  au  Brabant. 

Old-Fashioned    Chicken    Pie,    or    Vol-au- 

Vent  o*  Chicken. 

Green  Peas. 

Orange   Salad   or  Peach   Cobbler. 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce. 

Baked   Yams,   Buttered.     "Winter   Squash 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Lettuce   S'alad,   French   Dressing. 

Plum  Pudding.     Mince  Pie  or  Apple  Pie. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 

Pound  Cake  or  Jelly  Cake.    Fruits.    Nuts. 

Raisins. 

Roquefort.     Crackers.    Currant  Jelly. 

Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce. 

Potato  Salad. 

French   Toast.     Cheese  and   Jelly.     Fruit. 

Tea. 

A    ChriBtmas   Decoration. 

On  Christmas  Day  what  is  more  beau- 
tiful and  appropriate  as  a  decoration 
than  the  holly?  The  woods  are  full  of 
the  beautiful  Christmas  offering  of  na- 
ture at  this  time  of  the  year.  Fill  the 
vases  and  bowls  with  holly;  hang  a 
wreath  above,  the  mantel,  and  set  a  great 
clustering  bouquet  in  a  low  cutglass 
bowl  in  the  center  of  the  table.  The 
brip-ht  red  berries  against  the  dark  green 
speak  of  the  Christmas  glow  and  cheer 
that  fill  the  heart. 

An    Old-Fashloned    Creole   Sn^sestion    for 
Holiday    Menus. 
The      following      old-fashioned      Creole 
holiday  menu,    in   vogue   for   generations 
among     Creole      families      of     moderate 
means,   may  be   used   by   families   whose 
means  are  very  limited,  but  who,  never- 
theless,  with   all  the  world,   wish   to   en- 
Joy  themselves,  and   give  to  those  about 
them    a    little    Christmas    cheer.     With    a 
little  modification,   such  as  Roast  Gloose 
with  Apple   Sauce,  it  may  be  within  the 
means    of   the    poor,    and   may    serve    for 
the  Christmas,  New  Tear  or  Thanksgiv- 
ing   Dinner.       Mutton    is    always    wiUiln 
the  reaf'h  of  the  poor  in  our  market,  and 
those    families    who     cannot    afford    the 
traditional      "Quarties      d'Agneau      Rotl, 
Sauce    Menthe,"    at    Easter,    can    always 
enjoy   a    good    piece    of    Roast    Lamb    or 
Mutton  from  the  brisket  or  shoulder. 
BREAKFAST. 
Sliced  Oranges 
Small   Hominy  and   Milk. 
Broiled    Tenderloin    Steak,   Potatoes   a   la 
Creole. 
Omelette   a  la  Creole. 
Rice  Cakes.     Louisiana  Syrup. 
Cafe   au   Lalt. 
The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 
DINNER. 

Gumbo  File. 

Radishes.     Cress      Pickled    Onions. 

Conrtbouillon.     Mashed    Potatoes. 

(This  Course  May  Be  Omitted.) 

Belgnets  d'Oranges. 

Roast  Turkey,  Oyster  Stuffing,  Cranberry 

Sauce. 

Baked  Yams,  Sliced  and  Buttered. 


Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Lettuce   Salad,   French   Dressing. 

Old-Fashioned  Chicken  Pie    (May  B« 

Omitted). 

Plum    Pudding. 

Mince   Pie   or  Apple  Pie. 

Pineapple  Sherbet  (iMay  Be  Omitted). 

Home-Madfi    Sponge,    Jelly    and    Pound 

Cakes. 

Apples,  Oranges,  Bananas,  Grapes. 

(Or  Simply  One  or  Two  Fruits.) 
An  Assortment  of  Nuts  and  Raisins. 
Home-Made  Creole  Bonbons. 
Cheese.    Crackers.    Raspbjerry    Marma- 
lade. 
Cafe  Nolr. 

SUPPER. 

Cold   Turkey,   Cranberry   Sauce. 

Cheese. 

Jelly.    Small  Cakes. 

Tea. 

8PECIAI.   MENUS. 

Sagreestlons   for   Banqnets  or  Formal 
Dinners. 

In  giving  banquets,  whether  breakfasts, 
dinners  or  suppers,  there  is  generally  a 
tendency  to  overdo  the  menu.  It  should 
be  borne  in  mind  that  to  the  Intelligent 
and  refined  nature  there  always  conies  the 
thought,  "Man  does  not  live  by  bread 
alone,"  and  any  attempt  to  over-feed  by  a 
too-lavish  expenditure  or  number  ot 
dishes  not  only  displays  a  lack  of  elegant 
taste,  but  is  positively  vulgar.  Too  many 
courses  spoil  a  feast,  and  what  is  In- 
tended to  be  an  enjoyable,  delightful  re- 
union. It  Is  too  often  forgotten  that  all 
the  guests  are  not  gourmands,  and  that 
it  does  not  require  fifteen  or  twenty 
courses  to  satisfy  all  appetites. 

Again,  too  much  wine  is  served,  as  a 
general  rule.  Where  wines  are  served, 
remember  that  three  kinds  are  sufficient 
for  even  the  most  costly  and  elegant 
menu — White  wine  (Sauternes),  or  Sherry 
with  the  soup;  Sauternes  With  the  fish: 
Claret  with  the  entrees  and  roasts ;  Cham- 
pagne just  before  the  dessert  is  brought 
to  the  table. 

The  following  menus  will  serve  as  sug- 
gestions for  the  most  elegant  feasts: 

Dinner. 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell. 

Amontillado. 

SOUPS  OR  POTAGES. 

Soupe  a  la  Julienne  or  Consomme  Royale. 

HORS  D'OEUVRES    (SIDE  DISHES). 

Celery,    Radishes,    Queen    Olives,    Young 

Onions,   Salted  Almonds. 

POISSON   (FISH). 

Broiled  Pompano   (in  season)   or  Spanish 

Mackerel,  Sauce  a  la  Maltre  d'Hotel. 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Duchesse 

(Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse). 

Sliced  Cucumbers. 

Sauternes. 

RELEVES. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  Truffee  aux  Perigneux.  or 

Saute  aux  Champignons. 

ENTREE. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Creole. 

LEGUMES. 

Green  Peas. 
Stuffed    Artichokes.     Asparagus. 

ROTI. 

Turkey  Stuffed  With  Oysters  or  Chest- 
nuts. 


287 


Snipe  on  Toast,  or  Pababotte  a,  la  Creel*. 
Watercress 
Champagne. 

SALrADE. 

\>  -lOle   Tomatoes    Frappe,   or   Lettuce 
Salad.     French   Dressing. 

DESSERTS'. 

Nesselrode    Pudding.     Variegated    Ice 

Cream. 
Chocolate  Layer  Cake  or  Petits  Fours. 
Assorted  Fruits.    Assorted  Nuts.    Raising. 
Edam  of  Roquefort  Cheese. 
Cafe  Noir. 
It  must  be  remembered  right  here  that 
it   is   no   longer   elegant   to    give   the   dis- 
tinctive    names     of     courses     in     printed 
menus.     They  are  merely  suggested,  as  in 
the  following: 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell. 

Consomme. 

Sauterne. 

Soft-Shell  Crabs  a  la  Creole. 

New  Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Sweetbreads  a  la   Creole. 

Petits  Pois    (Green  Peas). 

Sorbet  a  la  Royale. 

Claret. 

Filet    Mlgnon    de    Boeuf   aux    Truffes    ou 

aux  Champignons. 
Artichokes  a  la  Barigouls.    Asparagus. 

Whole   Tomatoes   Frappe. 

Pigeons    a    la    Crapaudine,    or    Quail    or 

Woodcock  on  Toast. 

Cress. 

Fancy  Variegated  Ice  Cream  or  Pineapple 

Sherbet. 

Assorted   Cakes.    Fruits.    Nuts.    Bonbons. 

Coffee.    Tea. 

Menu    for    Buffet    Luncheon. 

Consomme    Dore    en    Tasse     (Gllt-Edged 

Consomme  in  Cups). 

Sandwiches     Caviar  on  Toast. 

Radishes.    Celery.    Olives.    Mixed 

Pickles.    Salted  Almonds. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Boned  Turkey  (Galantine  Truffe)  or  Cold 

Roast    Turkey. 

Mayonnaise  of  Chicken  or  Shrimp. 

Biscuit    Glace   or  Variegated   Ice   Cream. 

Assorted   Cakes.    Assorted   Bonbons. 

Crystallized  Fruits. 

Tea.     Coffee.     Cream.     Chocolate. 

Iced  Lemonade. 

Champagne  Punch  Frappe  (if  Desired). 

Menu  for  Suppers. 

A  supper  is  always  a  more  elaborate  a*- 
fair  than  a  dinner.  It  admits  of  an  ap 
petizer,  Oysters  on  Half  Shell,  served  as 
an  hors  d'oeuvre,  cr  Anchovies,  Caviar-?, 
etc.;  a  Soup  or  Gumbo;  the  usual  hors 
d'oeuvres  of  Celery,  Radishes,  Cress, 
Pickled  Onions,  Mangoes,  Salted  Al- 
monds, etc.;  Fish,  broiled,  baked.  Court- 
bouillon  or  Bouilliabaisse;  vegetable  at- 
tachments; entrees  of  various  kinds,  to 
suit  the  taste  and  alsc  to  correspond  with 
the  course  of  the  feast;  sweet  entremets; 
a  roast,  vegetables,  to  be  served  with  it, 
and  salad;  game  of  any  variety,  from 
Venison,  Canvas-back,  Mallard  and  Teal 
Ducks,  to  Pababottes,  Snipe,  Woodcock, 
etc.,  on  toast;  Desserts,  Fruits,  Jellies, 
Cheese,  Coffee. 

The  menu  should  always  be  varied  ac- 
cording to  the  season,  selecting  always 
the  first  and  most  elegant  fish,  game, 
vegetables,  fruits,  etc.,  of  the  season 
to  set  before  your  guests. 

As  a  rule,  any  elegant  dinner  menu 
may  serve  also  for  a"  supper,  except  In 
case  of  a  state  dining,  and  even  then  the 
rule  given  above  should  be  observed. 

Do  not  overload  vour  table,  and.  above 
all,  do  not  fatigue  your  guests  with  lonif- 


drawn-out  affairs  of  eighteen  and  twenty 
courses.  Observe  the  happy  medium,  ten 
and  even  less,  and  you  and  they  will  be 
the  more  satisfied,  the  more  delighted, 
the  more  comfortable  for  your  thoughtful 
and   refined   consideration. 

SOIREES. 

"Soirees"  are  pleasant  forms  of  enter- 
tainments that  have  come  down  from  ear- 
liest Creole  days  in  Louisiana.  While 
elaborate  entertaining  was  also  done,  the 
Creole  character  being  naturally  gay  and 
happy,  and  inheriting  a  French  fondness 
for  the  dance,  for  music  and  song  and  so- 
cial intercourse,  the  young  folks  hal  a 
way  of  giving  weekly  soirees,  at  which 
their  parents  served  simple  light  refresh- 
ments, such  as  a  famous  "Sirops,"  given 
in  the  preceding  chapter,  ices  of  various 
kinds,  lemonades  and  Petits  Fours,  or 
small  cakes,  waters  and  fruits.  These 
refreshments  were  passed  around  by  the 
old-time  servants,  decked  in  gay  ban- 
dana tignon,  guinea  blue  dress  and  wihite 
apron,  and  kerchief  pinned  across  the 
bosom.  Later  in  the  evening  tea  was 
serveu.  and  as  the  "Soiree"  advanced  to 
the  wee  hours,  coffee,  chocolate  and  con- 
somme in  cups. 

Fathers  took  the  greatest  interest  in  the 
"Soirees"  in  their  homes,  and  did  the 
honors  with  distinguished  courtesy,  in- 
viting the  older  gentlemen,  who  acted  as 
escorts  for  their  daughters,  to  take  a 
glass  of  wine  or  champagne,  but  liquors 
were  never  offered  to  the  young  people, 
a  custom  that  might  well  be  adopted  in 
our  day  generally.  Ice  Cream,  Lemonade 
and  Cakes,  with  a  cup  of  Consomme  or 
Cafe  Noir,  as  the  evening  advanced,  were 
considered  sufficient  refreshment. 

Again,  at  these  "Soirees"  the  simple 
"Eau  Sucre"  was  served  (see  "Eau  Su- 
cre," under  chapter  on  Domestic  Drinks, 
Cordials,  etc.)  in  the  homes  of  families  of 
most  limited  means.  Lack  of  mc^ey  has 
never  debarred  a  Creole  to  the  manor 
born  from  what  is  called  the  best  society. 
These  old-time  "Soirees"  still  continue, 
though  the  "Eau  Sucre"  parties  have 
passed  away  with  changing  conditions. 

The  Creole  "Soirees"  are  pleasing  forms 
of  entertainment  that  might  be  adopted 
with  profit  generally. 

ECONOMICAL    MENUS. 

The  following  economical  menus  are  in- 
tended as  suggestions,  showing  how  a 
family  of  six  may  live  comfortably  and 
witxi  variety  on  from  a  dollar  to  a  dollar 
and  a  half  a  day.  In  all  these  recipes  the 
left-over  from  one  meal  is  utilized  m 
another  dainty  form  for  the  next,  thus 
equalizing  expenses  from  day  to  day: 
Menu  for  Monday. 
BREAKFAS'T. 

Sliced  Oranges. 

Small  Hominy.     Milk. 

Broiled  Beefsteak.     Julienne  Potatoes. 

Batter   Cakes.     Louisiana   Syrup. 

Cafe   au   Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Muskmelon. 
Saucisses   a   la   Creole.     Hominy   Cro- 
quettes. 
French  Rolls.     Raspberry  Jam. 
Tea. 

DINNER. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Baked  Redsnapper. 

Potatoes   a  la  Maitre  d*Hotel. 

Roast  Beef,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Boiled  Rice.    Butterbeans.    Lettuce  Salad. 


288 


Apple  Dumplings  a  la  Creole.     Cheeseu 
Cafe  Noir, 

Mena  for  Tuesday, 

BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Grits  ana  Milk. 

Meat    Rissoles.    Potato    Croquettes. 

Biscuit. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes.     Louisiana  Syrup. 

Cafe   au   L.alt. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Thin  Slices  of  Boiled  Ham. 

Compotes  of  Apples. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Gumbo  File. 

Fish  Croquettes.     Hominy  Fritters. 

Roast  Pork,  Apple  Sauce. 

Baked   Sweet  Potatoes.     String   Bean 

Salad. 

Banana  Cake.    Cheese. 

Cafe  Nolr. 

Menu  for  Wednesday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  Prunes. 

Oatmeal  and  Milk. 

Fried  Ham.     Scram'bled  Eggs. 

Sweet    Potato    Waffles.     Butter. 

Cafe  au  Lait. 

The  Dally  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold  Roast  Pork. 

Oatmeal   Cakes.     Salade  a  la  Jardiniere. 

Ginger  Snaps.     Tea. 

DINNER. 

Vermicelli   Soup. 

Courtbouillon.     Potatoes  a  la  Duchessa. 

GriUades  a  la  Sauce.     Red  Beans.     Rice. 

Green  Pepper  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Pumpkin  Pie.     Cheese.     Fruit. 

Cafe  Nolr. 

Menu    for    Thursday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Peaches   and   Cream    (in  Season). 

Ragout    of    Mutton.     Small    Hominy. 

Cornmeal  Cakes.     Louisiana  Syrup. 

Cafe   au   Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fish  Croquettes.     Potato  Salad. 

Fried  Liver  'With  Onions. 

French  Toast.     Tea. 

DINNER. 

Cream    of   Tomato    Soup. 
Boiled  Sheepshead,  Sauce  a  la  Creme. 
Potato  Snow. 
Veal   Saute  aux   Petits   Pols,  Stuffed  To- 
matoes. 
Lettuce  Salad. 
Riz   au    Lait.     Cheese. 
Cafe  Nolr. 

Menu    for    Friday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Pears  (in  Season). 

Boiled  Hominy.     Milk. 

Broiled   Trout. 

Julienne  Potatoes.     Pain   Perdue. 

Cafe  au    Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

River  Shrimp  on  Ice. 

Codfish  Balls. 

Cheese   Fondue.     Dry   Cakes.     Orange 

Jelly.     Tea. 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  Red  or  White  Beans. 

Spanish  Courtbouillon.     Potatoes  a  la 

Duchesse. 

Jambalaya  au  Congri. 

Stewed  Cashaw. 

Blackberry  Roll,  Hard  Sauce. 

Cafe  Nolr. 

Menu  for   Saturday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Cracked  Wheat.     Milk. 

Grlllades   Panees. 

Apple  Fritters.     Milk  Toast. 

Cafe   au  Lait. 
The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fish  Croquettes. 

Cold  Boiled  Tongue.     Sliced  Cucumtier 

Salad. 

Orange  Short  Cake.    Tea. 

DINNER. 

Vermicelli  S'oup. 

Daube  or  Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Macaroni  au  Gratln. 

Spanish  Jambalaya.     Turnips  a  la  Crema. 

Lentils  or  Peas. 

Beet  Salad,  French  Dressing. 

Sweet   Potato   Pudding,    or   Custard   Pts. 

Cheese. 

Cafe  Noir. 

Menu  for  Sunday. 

BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries    (in   Season).     Milk. 

Oatmeal,  Milk. 

GriUades   Panees.     Lyonnaise   Potatoes. 

French  Rolls. 

Cafe   au    Lait. 

The  Daily  Times-Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Corn  Soup  (in  Season). 

Radishes.     Cress.     Home-Made  Picldea 

Bouilllabaisse.     New    Potatoes,    Buttered. 

Fricasseed  Chicken  With  Dumplings, 

or  Poulet  au  Riz. 

Salmi  of  Wild  Duck  With  Turnips. 

Green  Peas.     Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Lettuce    Salad,    French   Dressing. 

Lemon  Sherbet.     Cake. 

Cafe  Nolr. 

SUPPER. 

Warmed-Over  Duck.     Potato  Salad. 
Blackberry    Jam.     Cake. 
Tea- 
How    to     Vary    These    S}conoinical    Daily 
!Menus. 

These  Menus  may  be  varied  with 
Gumbo  aux  Herbes,  Gumbo  Choux, 
STirimp  Gumbo,  Bisque  d'Ecrevisses,  all 
manner  of  Purees,  when  vegetables  are  in 
the  height  of  the  season:  all  kinds  of 
vegetables  in  the  height  of  the  season; 
various  compotes  and  Jellies  and  jams 
put  up  thriftily  when  fruits  are  selling  at 
such  rates  as  elg-ht  peaches,  or  six  apples 
or  pears,  or  a  dozen  bananas  for  5  cents, 
etc.;  fried  bananas;  all  manner  of  sweet 
entremets,  with  the  exception  of  the  ex 
pensive  omelets  and  fritters,  and  nearly 
all  kinds  of  puddings  and  pies  and  des- 
serts. 


ESTABLISHED    IN    1837 


The  Times-Picayune  is  the  "Home"  or 
"Family"  newspaper  of  New  Orleans,  because 
it  enjoys  the  confidence  and  esteem  of  the 
people.  It  stands  for  good  government,  the 
advancement  of  education,  and  protection  for 
the  home — for  everything  that  is  good — and 
is  therefore  popular  with  the  women. 

Women  active  in  civic,  religious  and 
philanthropic  movements  depend  upon  this 
newspaper  for  support,  which  they  receive 
without  stint.  Its  Sunday  features  include 
pages  devoted  to  the  activities  of  women  in 
social,  literary,  religious,  philanthropic  and 
club  work. 

It  numbers  among  its  regular  daily  feat- 
ures, appealing  especially  to  women-federated 
and  non-federated,  organized  and  un-organ. 
ized — a  page  devoted  to  women  with  articles  of 
interest  to  them.  It  is  popular  with  women  of 
Louisiana  and  Mississippi  because  it  is  clean 
and  fearless,  and  sustains  them  in  their  en- 
deavors to  attain  higher  standards  in  life  and 
make  living  conditions  better. 


®1|?  ^r^uUBt  NFtuBpap^r  i'outli. 


.  .  INDEX  .  . 


BEEF    (Du  Boeuf)    47 

Guides  In  Choosing  Meats  46 

Unfailing  Rules  Which  the   Creoles 

Follow 47 

BEEF    (Du  Boeuf) 47 

Beef  a  la  Mode  49 

Beefsteak,    Broiled    4S 

Beefsteak,  Smothered  48 

Beefsteak,   Smothered   in   Onions. .  4S 

Beef    Marine    49 

Beefsteak  Pie  51 

Bouilli    15 

Corned  Beef 52 

Dauhe,  Cold,  a  la  Creole 49 

Filet   of  Beef,  Larded 47 

Filet      of      Beef,      Larded,      With 

Mushrooms 47 

Filet      of      Beef,      Larded,      With 

Truffles    47 

Filet    of    Beef,     Smothered,    With 

Mushrooms  or  Truffles  48 

Filet    of    Beef,    With    Stuffed  To- 
matoes      48 

Filet  of  Beef,  with  Tomatoes 48 

Fried    Meat    49 

Grillades 60 

Grillades,    Breaded    50 

Grillades,  With  Gravy    50 

Hash 61 

Hash,  Dry  or  Baked 51 

Hash,  of  Corned  Beef 52 

Hash    on   Toast    62 

Kidneys,   Broiled    52 

Kidneys,    Stewed    62 

Left-Over  Meat   50 

Left-Over  Meat  (Rissoles) 51 

Liver,  Broiled  63 

Liver,  Pried  a  la  Lyonnalse   53 

Meat  Balls  (Boulettes) 50 

Meat  Balls  (Boulards) 61 

Ox  Tails  a  la  Bourgeolse 62 

Ox  Tails,  Breaded 62 

Potted  Beef  61 

Roast   Beef    47 

Souffle    61 

Tongue,   Jellied    63 

Tongue,   Smothered   53 

BEVERAGES,      CREOLE      HOUSE- 
HOLD— Bolssons  de  Menagre itV 

DOMESTIC         CORDLA.LS  AND 

DRINKS 229 

General  Directions  and  Proportions 

for 229 

How  to  Filter  230 

BEER,  Creole  (Bierre  Creole) 240 

Ginger  Beer 240 

Root  Beer 240 

Spruce  Beer 240 

CUPS    (Pouches)    235 

Burgundy  Cup    285 

Claret  Cup  285 

Champagne  Cup 236 

Military  Cup     238 

Moselle   Cup    238 

White  Wine   Cup      236 

Brandy  Stew 236 

Egg-Nog    237 

Eggs  and  Wine      ZoJ 

Hot  Spiced  Port  ^6 

Mint  Julep  a  la  Creole  237 

Sangaree,  Hot  or  Cold 237 

Sherry   Cobbler    236 

Wine  Cobbler 286 


CORDIALS   (Liqueurs)    238 

Anisette  28S 

Anisette    de    Bordeaux    238 

Blackberry  Cordial 238 

Citronelle    238 

Curacoa  238 

Fruit  Cordials 239 

Kummel     239 

Nectar    239 

Orangeade    232 

Parfait    Amour       239 

Persicot    239 

Sassafras    Mead    239 

BREAD  S—Des    Pains 259 

BAKERS'   BREAD    260 

Bread,  Buttermilk 261 

Bread,  French    260 

Bread,  French  Loaves 260 

Bread,   Light  Home-Made   Creole..  261 

Bread,  Milk  261 

Bread,  Pan    260 

Bread,    Rice    261 

Bread,  Rye    261 

Bread,   Sweet  Potato    261 

Bread,  Twist  Loaves    260 

How  to  Make  and  Bake  Bread 259 

BAB  A 263 

BISCUIT    264 

Biscuit,  Beaten 26*4 

Biscuit,  Soda  and  Milk  264 

Biscuits,  Stewed 264 

Biscuit,   Sweet  Potato   265 

Biscuits.  Tea 26f5 

BRIOCHES    263 

BULLFROGS    263 

CORNBREAD     265 

Corn  Dodgers 267 

Corn  Bread,  Egg 266 

Corn  Bread,  Nonpareil   266 

Corn  Bread,  Plain 266 

Cornmeal  Pone 266 

Corn  Bread,  Risen  266 

Corn  Bread,  Steamed  266 

Corn,  Ash  Cake  267 

Corn  Cakes,  Fried  267 

CRACKLING  BREAD    267 

Cracknels    272 

Crumpets    269 

PEILLARO    264 

WINE  CAKE   264 

BREAKFAST     CAKES- 
BATTER       CAKES       (Gaieties       de 

Pate)     270 

Buckwheat  Cakes  271 

Flannel  Cakes 271 

CHEESE    CAKES 263 

GEMS  (Petits  Bijoux) 269 

Corn    Gems    269 

GRIDDLE      CAKES       (Gateau   a  la 

Plaque)     271 

Griddle    Cakes,    Bread    271 

Griddle   Cakes,    Cornmeal 271 

Grldde  Cakes,  French 271 

Griddle  Cakes,  Hominy  271 

Griddle  Cakes,  Green  Corn  272 

Griddle  Cakes,  Rice 272 

HOECAKB     267 

JOHNNY    CAKE 2S7 


290 


MUFFINS    (Galettes)    268 

Muffins,   Bread    268 

Muffins,    Cornmeal    268 

Muffins,  Cream  268 

Muffins,   Egg    268 

Muffins,   Hominy    268 

Muffins.     Queen 268 

Muffins,  Quick 269 

Muffins,     Rice 269 

PUFFS     272 

ROLLS   (Bourrelet) 262 

Rolls,    Frenoli 262 

Rolls,  Tea 262 

RUSKS  262 

TOAST   262 

Cream  or  Milk  Toast 262 

Lost  Bread,  or  Egg  Toast 263 

Spanish    Toast 263 

SALLY   LUNN    269 

SHORT    CAKE    265 

SODA  CRACKERS 265 

WAFERS    265 

WAFFLES    (Gaufres) 269 

Waffles,  Cornmeal 270 

Waffles,  Plain   269 

W^affles,  Potato  270 

Waffles,  Rice 270 

Waffles.    Risen    270 

Waffles,   Sweet  Potato    270 

OTHER  BREAKAST  CAKES 270 

YEAST,    HOME-MADE 272 

BIRDS — Des   Oiseaux — 

BIRDS    90 

Chaud-Froid   of  Birds 97 

Bird  Pie  97 

Invariable  Rule  for  Broiling  Birds.  90 

Invariable  Rule  for  Roasting  Birds.  91 

GRASSETS,   Broiled   or   Roasted    96 

LARKS       (Alouettes),       Broiled       or 

Roasted    96 

PAPABOTTE     91 

Papabotte  a  la  Creole  91 

Papabotte,  Broiled 91 

Papabotte,  Roasted  91 

PARTRIDGES   (Perdreaux) 92 

Partridge    a    la   Creole    93 

Partridge   a  la  Financiere    93 

Partridge    and    Cabbage    93 

Partridge,       Breasts       of.       Truffle 

Sauce     94 

Partridge,    Broiled    92 

Partridge,       Broiled       with       Sour 

Ora  ngre     Sauce 92 

Partridge,  Chartreuse  of    93 

Partridge,    Hunters'    Style 93 

Partridge,    Roast    92 

Partridge.       Roast,       with       Bread 

Sauce     92 

PIGEONS              82 

Broiled     •   82 

Broiled  a  la   Crapaudine    82 

Compote    of    82 

Squab,    Roasted    82 

Squab,   with   Green  Peas    83 

Vol-au-Vent    of    83 

With    Crawfish    83 

POULES     D'EAU     97 

Poule   d'Eau,   Stewed    97 

Poule   d'Eau,   with   Turnips    97 

QUAIL    (Cailles)    94 

Quail,   Broiled    on   Toast    95 

Quail,   Broiled    with   Bacon    95 

Quail,     Roasted     94 

Quail    (Cailles   de  Laurler),   Roast- 
ed       95 

Quail,  Roasted  In  Grape  Leaves...  94 

Quail.    Smothered     95 

Quail,  Smothered,  a   la   Financiere.  95 
REED     BIRDS     (Ortolans),     Broiled 

or    Roasted    96 

ROBINS    (Grives),  Broiled  or  Roast- 
ed       96 

SNIPE    (Becasslne)     96 

Snipe,   Broiled   on   Toast    96 

Snipe.    Roast    on   Toast    96 


WOODCOCK     (Becasse)     95 

Woodcock,    Broiled    on    Toast    96 

Woodcock,    Roast    on   Toast    95 

CAKES — Dee     Gateaux — 

General   Directions  for  Making 195 

Directions    for    Baking    195 

Rule  for  Mixing  Ingredients   195 

How  to   Ice   196 

CAKES     196 

Almond     196 

Angel     J 197 

Angel's   Food        197 

Archangel   197 

Banana  Meringue    197 

Black    197 

Buttermilk    197 

Bride's     198 

Chocolate    Loaf     198 

Chocolate    a   la   Creole    198 

Citron   198 

Cocoanut   Loaf        198 

Clove    198 

Coffee      198 

Caramel    199 

Cup    Cake     199 

One,  Two,  Three,  Four  Cup  Cake.  199 

Cake   without  Eggs    199 

Delicate   Cake    199 

Dried    Fruit    Cake     199 

Fig  Cake    200 

Fruit     200 

Fruit    Cake.    Plain     200 

Ginger    Cake     200 

Ginger    Bread    201 

Ginger    Bread    witliout    Butter    or 

Eggs     (Stage    Planks) 201 

French     Creole     201 

Fruit    Ginger    Bread    201 

Silver    Cake       201 

Gold  Cake    , 201 

Honey  Cake    -01 

Imperial   Cake    -02 

Indian   Pound    202 

Lady  Cake    (WTiite)    202 

Lunch    102 

Madame    John's    Cake    202 

Marble    Cake     202 

Marble    Chocolate     202 

Minute    Cake        187 

Motley    203 

Molasses      203 

Molasses,    Plain    203 

Manque        203 

Nut  Cake    203 

Orange     203 

Pearl    Cake     203 

Picayune    Cake       196 

Premium    Cake     204 

Pound    Cake    204 

Pound   Cake    (No.   2)    204 

Pound    Cake,    White    204 

Plum  Cake,  or  Old-Fashioned  Wed- 
ding   Cake     204 

Raisin    Cake    205 

Spanish   Cake       205 

Spice  Cake   205 

Spiced    Molasses    Cake    205 

Sponge    Cake    205 

Sponge   Cake,  Cream    205 

Sponge  Cake,  Quick   205 

Sponge   Cake,   White    205 

Tutti-Frutti     Cake     206 

Twelfth  Night,  or  King's  Cake 206 

WTiite    Cream    Cake     206 

White    Mountain    206 

CAKES,    L,A\'ER — Des    Gateaux — 

LAYER    CAKES     206 

Almond     Cake     207 

Banana    Layer    Cake       207 

Chocolate    Layer    Cake    207 

Cocoanut    Layer     ,...  207 

Cream  Layer   207 

Fig    Layer    207 

Jelly   Layer  Cake 207 


291 


Lemon    Layer     207 

Orange    Layer    207 

Pecan    Layer    207 

Pineapple    Layer    207 

Eaisin   Cake    207 

Rainbow    Cake        207 

Layer  Cake  of  Preah  Fruits    207 

CANAPES— Canapes — 

CANAPES     128 

Anchovy  Canapes      128 

Anchovy      Canapes,      with      Hard- 

Boiled   Eggs    128 

Anchovy  Canapes,  Creole  Style 128 

Anchovy  Canapes,  Cracker  128 

Anchovy     Clanapes     with     Gruyere 

Cheese    128 

Caviar   Canapes    128 

Canapes,  Cheese      129 

Canapes,   Chicken    129 

Canapes  of  Chicken  Hvers  129 

Canapes,    Codfish    129 

Canapes,    Creole    129 

Canapes,  Crab    129 

Cannelons 131 

Canapes,  Fish 130 

Cannelons-  131 

Canapes,  Fish    130 

Canapes,   Ham      130 

Canapes   of  Potted  Ham   130 

Canapes,    Hunters'    Style    128 

Canapes,  Indian   130 

Canapes,     Louisiana     130 

Canapes,    Olives       130 

Canapes,   Oysters    130 

Canapes  of  Potted  Tongue   130 

Canapes,    Sardine    130 

Canapes,    Spanish    130 

Canapes,     Swiss     128 

CBBEALS— 

CEREALS    121 

Barley 124 

Buckwheat 124 

Corn     122 

Cornmeal    Mush      124 

Farina       122 

Farina  Gruel 122 

Grits    123 

Grits,   Boiled    123 

Grits,  Baked      123 

Hominy,    Boiled    123 

Hominy,   Cl'oquettes    123 

Hominy,  Fried  123 

Hominy   Lye,   or   Samp    123 

Milk   Porridge    124 

Oats   122 

Oatmeal       122 

Oatmeal,   Steamed    122 

Oat  Flakes      122 

Rye      122 

Rye    Mush    122 

Wheat        121 

Wheat,  Cracked    122 

CHEESE — Du     Frontage — 

CHEESE    156 

Biscuits     126 

Cream    126 

Fondue         126 

Rarebit,   Welsh    126 

Ramakins      126 

Straws    127 

Souffle     J^l 

.Toasted        126 

COMPOTES — Des     Compotes — 

COMPOTES    169 

Apple         169 

Apple,    Stuffed        169 

Apricot   l°» 

Banana        iVi 

Banana  Cassa   4^'" 

Blackberries    ;J^'X 

Cherries     "" 


Cocoanut    170 

Cranberries    '  170 

Currants , . .  170 

Damsons     .'.    '. .  170 

Dried  Fruits      170 

Pigs  171 

Figs  a  la  Creole  171 

Lemons    171 

Malaga  Grapes    '...'.','.'.  171 

Mespilus     171- 

Oranges 171 

Oranges,    Whole     171 

Oranges,     Creole     171 

Peaches        171 

Pears     '.'.'.'.'.  171 

Plums        '.',,',  171 

Pineapple     172 

Plantain,  Creole  Style    172 

Plantain,  Old  Style   172 

Pomegranates    172 

Prunes    172 

Raspberries        ..'.  172 

Strawberry 172 

COFFEE,       CHOCOLATE,       COCOA, 

TEA — Cafe,     Chocolat,     Cacao,     du 
The — 

CREOLE      COFFEE       (Cafe      a.      la 

Creole   1 

Cafe  au  Lait  2 

Cafe    Noir    1 

Best   Ingredients   for    1 

How   to   Parch    1 

How    to    Make    1 

The   Creole  Rule   for    2 

Chocolate     23fl. 

Cocoa        .    241 

Tea     241 


COUPS 

Course 


Drinks — 


MILIEU— Middle 


COUPS    DB    MILIEU    223 

Cardinal   Punch    224 

Creole    Punch    224 

-     Frozen    Champagne    Punch     224 

Imperial   Punch    224 

Kirsch    Punch     224 

Louisiana  Punoh    225 

Roman  Punch 225 

Royal    Sherbet    225 

CBEAM     DESSERTS- Des     Cremes — 

CREAM   DESSERTS    187 

GENERAL        DIRECTIONS        FOR 

MAKING     187 

Almond    Cream,    Sweet    189 

Burnt    Cream    189 

Chestnut   Cream    190 

Chocolate    Cream    190 

Creamed     Coffee     189 

Foamy    Cream    1|9 

Foamy  Cream,   with   Rum    189 

Gelatin   1|| 

Light    Cream    189 

Macaroon    Cream    190 

Peanut  Cream    190 

Snow  Cream    190 

Whipped    Cream    188 

White    Coffee    Cream    189 

WTiipped  Cream,  with  Curacoa   . . .  189 

Whipped    Cream,    with    Coffee    . . .  189 

Whipped   Cream,   with   Cognac    . . .  189 

Whipped   Cream,   with   Kirsch    189 

Whipped  Cream,  with  Liquors   188 

Whipped       Cream,       with       Mara- 
schino      189 

Whipped     Cream,     with     Peaches, 

Cherries    188 

Whipped       Cream       and       Straw- 
berries,    Raspberries,    Blaokbep- 

ries    188 

Whipped      Cream,      with      Vanilla, 

etc    188 


292 


CBKAM  DESSERTS,  BAVAR- 

IAN— Bavaroise— 

BAVARIAN    CREAMS    (Bavaroise) .  190 

Apricot  Bavarian  Cream  190 

Caramel    Bavarian    Cream    191 

Chocolate  Bavarian   Cream    191 

Coffee    Bavarian    Cream    191 

Orange  Bavarian  Cream   191 

Pineapple  Bavarian   Cream   191 

Raspberry   Bavarian   Cream    191 

Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream   191 

Spanish  Cream 191 

Velvet   Cream    191 

Wine  Cream  191 

CREAM  CUS'X'ABDS  AND  OTHER 
DESSERTS^Des  Elans,  et  Autre 
Desserts — 

CUSTARB      AJ^D       OTHER       DES- 
SERTS       184 

AMBROSIA    187 

Ambrosia,   Pineapple   and   Orang-e.  187 

Apple    Sago       187 

Apple   Sponge    187 

Blanc     Manger         184 

Blanc    Manger,    Cornstarcli    184 

Blanc   Manger,   Neapolitan    184 

Blanc    Manger,    Velvet    185 

Charlotte   Russe    185 

Charlotte    Russe,    Parisian    186 

Custard,    Almond    185 

Custard,     Boiled     185 

Custard,   Cup    185 

Custard,    Souffle     185 

Custard,    Macaroon    185 

Custard,    Rice    185 

Custard,    Tapioca    185 

Floating   Island    186 

Snow,    Apple    186 

Snow,    Cream    186 

Snow,  Pineapple     186 

Snow,   Orange    186 

Strawberry  Shortcake   187 

Strawberry     Sponge     187 

CREOLE    CANDIES — 

CREOLE    CANDIES    216 

Coloring  for  Candies    -o4 

Carmine    254 

Cochineal      254 

Blue    254 

Green     25* 

Orange     254 

.      Yellow        254 

SUGAR  AS  EMPLOYED  IN  CANDY 

MAKING    253 

Caramel    263 

Burnt    Sugar     254 

Lemon    Sugar    255 

Vanilla  Sugar      255 

Sugar  Boiling      253 

The  Small  Tihread     253 

The    Large    Thread    253 

The   Pearl    253 

The   Blow    253 

The  Feather   253 

The    Soft    Ball       253 

The  Hard  Ball   253 

The  Crack  or  Snap    253 

To  Clarify  Sugar   253 

BON-BONS    251 

Bon-Bons,    Cream    251 

Bon-Bons,   Chocolate  Cream    252 

Bon-Bons,      Cherry      and      Noyau 

Cream    252 

Bon-Bons,      Coffee      and      Cognac 

Cream 252 

Bon-Bons,  Lemon  and  Maraschino 

Cream 252 

Bon-Bons,  Liqueur 251 

Bon-Bons,  Orange  Cream 252 

Candy  Drops 249 

Cream  Peanuts 252 

Crystallized    Oranges       251 

Crystallized  Orange  Blossoms 251 


Crystallized  Rose  Petals   251 

Crystallized  Violets 251 

Crystallized  Watermelon   251 

DRAGEES  250 

LOZENGES  252 

Lozenges,  Cough     252 

CARAMELS 248 

Caramel,   Chestnuts      249 

Caramel,  Chocolate    248 

Caramel,   Oranges    249 

Cream  Peanuts 252 

Marshmallow   250 

MOLASSES  CANDY 248 

La  Colle 248 

Pop-Corn  Candy 248 

Mais  "Tac-Tac"    248 

NOUGAT    250 

Nougats,  Parisian     250 

PASTILLES     249 

Pastilles,  Cream 249 

Pastilles,    Fruit    249 

Pastilles,  Ginger     249 

Pastilles,  Health 249 

Pastilles,  Lemon 249 

Pastilles,  Liqueur 249 

Pastilles,  to  Relieve  Thirst 250 

Pastilles,  Marshmallow  Drops   ....  250 

Pastilles,   Peppermint  Drops    250 

Pastilles,  Rose   250 

Pastilles,  Orange 249 

PRALINES   247 

Almond  Pralines     247 

Cream   Pralines      247 

Peanut  Pralines   249 

Pecan  Pralines 247 

Pink  Pralines 247 

White    Pralines    247 

Sugar  Plums 251 

DESSERT  CAKES     208 

Advice  and  Instructions  for  Baking 

These  Cakes   208 

Des  BouQheses,  Macaroons,  Masse- 
pains,  Meringues,  Melees»  Cre- 
oles      208 

BOUCHEES    209 

Bouchees  de  Dames  209 

Bouchees  with  Oranges 209 

Bouchees  with  Peaches  209 

Bouchees  with  Pineapples    209 

CROQUIGNOLES    210 

MACAROONS    209 

Chocolate   Macaroons    209 

Creole   Macaroons    210 

Pistachio    Macaroons    210 

Spanish  Macaroons 210 

MASSEPAINS    210 

Simple 210 

Souffle    210 

Strawberry 210 

MERINGUES    215 

Bisque  Glace  aux  Confitures 215 

Cream  Iced ^ 215 

Cream  Iced  with  Preserves 215 

Creole   215 

Marbled  Glaces 216 

PETITS  FOURS     210 

SOUFFLES   210 

Almond    and    Peanut    Biscuit    ....  211 

Almond  Souffles 211 

Anise 211 

Chocolate    Biscuits       211 

Chocolate   Eclairs    213 

Cinnamon  Biscuits 211 

Citron  Biscuits 211 

Coooanut  Fingers    213 

Cream  Puffs   212 

Creole  Biscuits    211 

Creole  Cookies   214 

Creole  Wafers   212 

Cup  Cake 213 

Filbert  Biscuits     211 

Frascati  Croquantes  212 

French  Wafers 212 

Ginger  Nuts    214 

Ginger  Snaps      214 

Ginger  "Wafers  212 

Je'ly  Cake    213 

Jumbles   214 


293 


Lady   Fingers    214 

Lemon  Biscuit   212 

Lemon  Cookies 215 

Madeleines    214 

Molasses    Cookies     215 

Orange  Biscuits 212 

Pineapple  Eclairs  213 

Pistachio  Souffles   211 

Pop-Overs    214 

Queen  Cake 213 

Rose   Souffles    211 

Spanish  Wafers   212 

Spice   Drops    214 

Tea  Cakes  213 

Vanilla    Biscuits     212 

EGGS — Des   Oenfs — 

EGGS    113 

A  la  Poulette 114 

Beauregard     114 

Boiled    lis 

Creole  Omelet 115 

Fried   113 

Fondue    114 

Ham  Omelet  115 

Kidney  Omelet 115 

Mushroom  Omelet   115 

Onion  Omelet 115 

Omelet  Souffle 115 

Parsley  Omelet 115 

Plain  Omelet 115 

Poached    113 

Rum  Omelet   115 

Scrambled    114 

Schambled,  with  Asparagus  Tips..  114 

Scrambled  with  Ham    114 

Scrambled   with  Preserves    114 

Shirred    114 

Truffle  Omelet  115 

With  Ham   114 

FRAPPES— 

FRAPPES    237 

Absinthe  Frappe 237 

Appetizer  237 

Creme  de  Menthe  Frappe  237 

Creme  de  Noyau  Frappe   237 

Coffee  Frappe   237 

Old-Fashioned  Creole  Cocktails 238 

Pousse  Cafe    237 

Vermouth  Frappe    237 

FISH — Du  PoisBon — 

FISH    20 

Au  Gratin 21 

Balls    30 

Canned  44 

Chowder   30 

Cutlets    29 

Fresh    20 

General  Rule  for  Baking  21 

General  Rule  for  Boiling 21 

General  Rule  for  Broiling   21 

General  Rule  for  Frying    22 

General   Rule  for  Stewing    22 

How  to  Tell  Good  Fish  21 

Methods    of   Cooking    21 

Short    Resume    of    Louisiana    Var- 
ieties      22 

ooit                                                44 

Wen::::::::::::::.:: 33to44 

Soups ^  '°  ii 

ANCHOVY   (Des  Anchois)    46 

Anchovy    Salad     ™ 

Anchovy  Canapes   . .    •■■■■• ^J| 

BLUEFISH     (Poisson     Bleu) ^» 

Bluefish,   Broiled    • ■;= 

CODFISH   (De  la  Morue) 44 

Codfish   Balls    *| 

Codfish,  Bacalao *" 

Codfish,    Boiled       J* 

Codfish,    Creamed    *| 

Codfish,  Fried    JJ 

Codfish,  Stewed  J? 

CRABS  (Des  Crabes)    *o 


Crabs,    Hard-SheU     40 

Crabs,  Hard-SheU,  Boiled 41 

Crabs,   Hard-Shell,   Croquettes    42 

Crabs,    Hard-SheU,    Deviled 4» 

Crabs,  Hard-Shell,  Fried 41 

Crabs,  Hard-SheU,  How  to  Eat 40 

Crabs,  Hard-Shell,  Pie  of 42 

Crabs,  Hard-SheU,  Salad  of 42 

Crabs,  Hard-Shell,  Salad  Noo.  2 42 

Crabs,    Hard-Shell,    Scalloped 41 

Crabs,    Hard-SheU,    Stewed 42 

Crabs,  Hard-Shell,  Stuffed 41 

Crabs,  Hard-SheU,  Salad  No.  2 52 

Crabs,    Soft-SheU    i...  43 

Crabs,    Soft-Shell,    Broiled    43 

Crabs,   Soft-SheU,  Fried 43 

CRAWFISH     (Des    Ecrevisses) 43 

Crawfish,  Baked   a  la  Creole 43 

Crawfish,    Boiled    43 

Crawfish  Bush    44 

CROAKERS    (Des    Grognards) 30 

Croakers,    Fried     30 

EELS,  LOUISIANA  (De  I'AnguiUe) .  30 

Eels,  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel 31 

Eels,  a  la  Poulette   31 

Eels,    Broiled    31 

Eels,    Fried    31 

Eels     (Stewed)     en    Matelotte 30 

FLOUNDER    (Sole) 27 

Flounder,  a  la  Nouvelle   Orleans..  27 

Flounder,  a  la  Normande 27 

Flounder,  a  la  Orly 27 

Flounder,  a  la  Tartre 27 

Flounder,  Baked 27 

GROUPER    26 

Grouper,  au  Gratin   26 

Grouper,  Baked    26 

Grouper,  Boiled  27 

HERRING   (Des  Harengs)    46 

MACKEREL— Salt    45 

Mackerel,  Salt,  Boiled 45 

Mackerel,  Salt,  Broiled   46 

OTSTERS   (Huitires  a  la  Creole) 33 

Oysters,   a   la  Poulette    36 

Oysters   au   Parmesan 37 

Oyste  's  and  Bacon    -.  -  ■  35 

Oysters,    en    Brochette 34 

Oyster  Balls    38 

Oysters,    Baked    (au    Gratin) 36 

Oysters,    Broiled    34 

Oysters,   Broiled  in   Shells    35 

Oysters,  Broiled,  on  Toast 34 

Oysters,    Broiled,    with    Sauce    Es- 

pagnole  34 

Oysters,    Coddled    35 

Oyster  Croquettes      37 

Oyster  Croquettes  a  la  Creole ......  38 

Oysters,  Curried   |6 

Oysters,    Deviled ■ .  36 

Oyster  Dressing 98 

Oysters,  Fried    85 

Oysters,  Fried  a  la  Creole    8b 

Oyster   Fritters    37 

Oyster   Loaf    39 

Oysters,   Minced      36 

Oyster    Pan    Roast    37 

Oyster  Patties    38 

Oyster  Pie   38 

Oysters,  Pickled      39 

Oysters,   Raw,   in   Block   of   Ice 34 

Oysters,  Raw,  on  Half  Shell    34 

Oysters,    Roasted    37 

Oyster  Salad   39 

Oysters,    Sautees     35 

Oysters,    Scalloped     37 

Oysters,  Steamed 37 

Oysters,   Stewed    35 

Oyster  Stuffing,  for  Poultry,  Fish, 

etc ^3 

Oyster  Soups   10  and  11 

PATASSAS     30 

PERCH    (De  la  Perche)    29 

Perch,  Boiled    29 

Perch,  Broiled    30 

POMPANO       28 

Pompano,   a  la   Maitre  d  Hotel....  28 

RBDFISH  (Poisson  Rouge) 23 

Redfish,  Baked 26 


294 


Redfiish,    Boiled     25 

Redfiish,  Bouillabaisse    24 

Redflsh,    Courtbouillon    a    la    Cre- 
ole    24 

Redfish,    Courtbouillon    a    I'Espag- 

nole   24 

Redfish,  withh  Tomato  Sauce   (See 

Red     Snapper)      26 

RED  SNAPPER   23 

Red    Snapper,   Baked,   a   la   Cliam- 

bord    26 

Red  Snapper,  a  la  Creole   25 

Red  Snapper,  a  la  Sauce  Tomates.  26 
Red  Snapper,  Baked,  Simple,  Every 

Day  Recipe     25 

Red  Snapper,  Boiled 25 

Red  Snapper,  Bouillabaisse   24 

Red    Snapper,    Courtbouillon,    a   la 

Creole    24 

Red  Snapper,  Courtbouillon,  a  I'Es- 

pagnole    24 

ROE   (Oeufs  de  Poisson)    32 

SACALAIT     30 

SALMON    (Saumon)     46 

Salmon,    Mayonnaise    of    46 

Salmon  Salad   46 

SHBEPSHEAD    (Casburgot)    22 

Sheepshead,   a  la  Creole    22 

Sheepshead,  Baked 23 

Sheepshead,  Baked,  a  la  Creole  ....  23 

Sheepshead,  Boiled   22 

Sheepshead,    Broiled    (See    General 

Rule  for  Broiling  Fish) 21 

SHRIMP  (Des  Chevrettes)   39 

Shrimp,  Baked 40 

Shrimp,  Boiled 89 

Shrimp,   Bush       40 

Shrimp,  Fried    40 

Shrimp    Gumbos     19 

Shrimp  Pie  40 

Shrimp  Salad  40 

Shrimp,  Stewed 89 

Shrimp  in  Tomato  Catsup    40 

SPANISH     MACKEREL      (Macque- 

reau  Espagnole 28 

Spanish  Mackerel,  Broiled    28 

STINGAREE  (De  la  Rale)   31 

Stingaree   au  Beu'rre.  Noir    81 

Stingaree,  Fried   81 

Stingaree,  "With  Caper  Sauce 31 

STINGARBTTBS    (Rations)    82 

TERRAPIN  (De  la  Tortue) 9 

TROUT    (De  la  Truxte) 28 

Trout,   Green,   Boiled    29 

rout,    Green,   Broiled    29 

Trout,  Speckled  29 

Trout,   Speckled,   Fried    29 

Trout,    Tenderloin    of 29 

TURTLE    (De   la  Tortue) 44 

Turtle,  Green,  Steaks  of 44 

Turtle,    Green,    Stewed    44 

Turtle,  Green,  Soups  8  and  9 

FKOGS— Des    GrenoviiUes — 

FROGS    82 

Frogs,  a  la  Creole     82 

Frogs,    a    la    Poulette 32 

Frogs,  Broiled   83 

Frogs,  Fried   32 

Frogs,   Saute,  a  la  Creole 32 

Frogs,    Stewed    83 

FROZEN       FRUITS    —    Des       Fruits 
Glaces — 

FROZEN  FRUITS 225 

How    to    Freeze    Fruits 225 

Apricots,    Frozen    225 

Cherries,  Frozen  225 

Bananas,  Frozen 225 

Macedoine    of    Fruits 226 

Oranges,  Frozen   225 

Peaches,  Frozen   226 

Pineapple,  Frozen   226 

Strawberries,    Frozen    226 

FRUIT    GRANITS    283 

Orange  Granlt   283 


Strawberry  Granit 234 

Raspberry  Granit      234 

How    to    Serve    Fresh    Fruits    and 

Desserts 172 

GAME— Glbier— 

GAME     83 

Chaud-Froid  of     97 

Game  Pie      97 

Something     to     Remember     When 

Cooking  Game  83 

DUCKS,   Wild    (Canards   Sauvages..  85 

Canvasback  Duck   85 

Canvasback  Duck,  Broiled   86 

Canvasback  Duck,  Roasted 86 

Ducks  a  la  Bourgeoise  87 

Ducks,  Stewed   87 

Ducks,     Stewed,     French     Marshal 

Style 87 

Ducks,    Stewed    with    Mushrooms..  86 

Ducks,    Stewed    with    Turnips    ....  87 

Ducks,   Stewed,  Peasant  Style    87 

Mallard  Ducks,   Roasted    86 

Wild  Ducks,  Cold  87 

W^ild  Ducks,  Hunters'   Style    86 

Wild  Ducks,  with  Olives   87 

DUCKS— TEAL    (Sarcelle)    87 

Teal  Duck,  a  la  Bigarade  88 

Teal  Duck,  Broiled 88 

Teal  Duck,  Roasted 88 

HARE  (Lievre)     89 

Hare,  Creole  Style  . . 89 

Hare,  Filet  of.  Sauce  Poivrade 90 

Hare,  Roasted  and  Stuffed  89 

Hare,  Stewed  with  Onions   '90 

RABBIT    (Lapin)    88 

Rabbit,  Hunters'   Style    88 

Rabbit,  en  Matelote   89 

Rabbit,  Stewed 88 

SQUIRREL   (Ecureuil)    90 

Squirrel,  Hunters'  Style 90 

Squirrel,  en  Hatelote   90 

Squirrel.    Stewed    90 

VENISON   (Du  Chevreuil)    83 

Venison,   Cutlets   of.  Broiled    84 

Venison,  Hash   85 

Venison,  Hunters'  Style  84 

Venison,  in  Chafing  Dish  85 

Venison,  Roast  Haunch  of  83 

Venison,    Saddle    of.   Currant   Jelly 

Sauce    84 

Venison  Steaks,  a  la  Poivrade 84 

Venison,  Stewed,  a  la  Creole    84 

Venison,  Stewed,  French  Style  ....  85 

WILD  TURKEY   (Dinde  Sauvage) . .  85 

GARDEN  HERBS— Des  Herbes— 

Anise     160 

Bay    Leaf    160 

Bene       160 

Borage     160 

Caraway      160 

Catnip    160 

Coriander    160 

Dill    160 

Fennel    160 

Geranium   -. 160 

Horehound   160 

Laurel    160 

Lavender     160 

Marigold   160 

Marjoram    160 

Mint    160 

Pennyroyal     160 

Pot  Marigold   160 

Rosemary    160 

Rue     160 

Sage    160 

Summer  Savory   160 

Sweet  Basil    160 

Sweet  Marjoram   160 

Tansy    160 

Tarragon  160 

Wormwood    160 

The  Herb  Bouquet  (Bouquet  Garni)  3 


295 


Gl'MBO— 

GUMBO,  a  la  Creole  IS 

Cabbage    20 

Crab  19 

Green,   or  Herb    20 

Gumbo  Filet   18 

Okra    Gumbo    19 

Oyster    19 

Shrimp    19 

Shrimp  Gumbo,  File  19 

Squirrel  or  Rabbit  18 

Turkey    18 

HOBS    D'OEUVBBS — Relishes— 

HORS    D'OEUVRBS    160 

Anchovies  In  Oil  161 

Cold  Hors  d'Oeuvres    160 

Coquilles  of  Chicken,  Creole  Style. .  161 

Creole    Timbales     161 

Cromesqules  with  Truffles    161 

Hot  Hors  dOeuvress    160 

Lamb   Sweetbreads  in  Cases   162 

Lyonnaise  Sausage   163 

Macaroni   Croquettes    162 

Queen  of  the  Carnival  Croustades. .  161 

Pickled  Tunny 163 

Reed  Bird  Patties    163 

Salpicon,    Financiere    Style    163 

Salpicon  a  la  Montglas  163 

Salpicon,    Creole     162 

Salpicon,  Hunters'   Style    163 

Salpicon,  Louisiana    162 

Salpicon,   Royal    162 

Sardines  in  Oil 161 

Tamales  163 

ICE      CREAMS — Des     Cremes     a     la 
Glace — 

BISCUITS  GLACBS   221 

Biscuit  Glaces,  a  la  Creole   223 

BOMBE   GLACES    222 

ICE  CREAMS    217 

Ice  Cream,  Observations  on   217 

How  to  Make  Ice  Cream  217 

How  to  Freeze  the  Cream 218 

How  to  Mold  Ice  Cream 218 

Apricot   Ice   Cream    218 

!^anana   218 

Chocolate      218 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  with  Eggs 218 

Coffee   218 

King  of  the  Carnival  Ice  Cream 218 

Lemon   219 

Liquor  Ice  Cream  219 

Mandarin    219 

Maraschino      Wia 

Neapolitan    219 

Nectarine 219 

Nougat    219 

Noyau  219 

Orange   219 

Orange  Flower   220 

Peach  220 

Pistachio   220 

Pineapple        220 

Pineapple  Mousse   220 

Raspberry     220 

jjiQe    ZZO 

Rose    2^ 

Strawberry SSJ 

Tutti-Fruttl 221 

Tiitti-Frutti   a  la   Creole    221 

Vanilla  221 

Variegated   ;J;?i 

WATER    ICES     223 

ICINGS    FOR    CAKES— Glaces   pour 

Gateanx —  „. 

Almond  Icing 216 

Chocolate  Icing    ^6 

Orange  or  Lemon  . . ^o 

Colored  Transparent  Icing ^b 

Orange  Transparent  Icing   ^o 

Orgeat  Paste,  or  Icing  217 


Plain    Icing    216 

Royal    Icing    217 

Transparent  Icing     217 

Water  Icing    216 

Wine  Icing    216 

FROSTING— 

Cream   Frosting    217 

JAMS,    JELLIES— Dps    Confitures— 

JAMS,  JELLIES 241 

General  Directions  for  Making. . . .  241 

Apple  Jelly 242 

Apricot 242 

Blackberry  Jelly   242 

Blue  Plum  and  Damson  Jelly 2 '2 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly   242 

Cherry  Jam 244 

Cherry  Jelly      242 

Currant  Jelly 242 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Jelly 243 

Lemon  Jelly    243 

Orange  Jelly    242 

Orange  Jelly,  Creole  Style    243 

Peach    Jelly    243 

Pear    Jelly    243 

Pineapple  Jelly 243 

Quince  Jelly    243 

Raspberry   Jam    244 

Raspberry  Jelly      243 

Strawberry  Jam   244 

Strawberry  Jelly  243 

IiAMB     Agneau' — 

LAMB    65 

Lamb's  Brains   67 

Lamb's  Brains  a  la  Remoulade. . . .  67 

Lamb,  Breast  of,  Smoothered 66 

Lamb  Chops,  Broiled 66 

Lamb's  Feet   67 

Lamb's  Feet  a  la  Bourgeoise  68 

Lamb's  Feet,  White  Sauce   68 

Lamb,  Filet  of,  a  la  BecTiamel   66 

Lamb,  Filet  of,  Roasted  and  Lard- 
ed      66 

Lamb,    en   Blanquette    67 

Lamb,  Epigram  of     67 

Lamb,  Kidneys  of.  Broiled   68 

Lamb,  Minced    67 

Lamb   Roast,   a  la  Bearnaise 66 

Lamb  Roast,  with  Mint  Sauce   66 

Lamb  Tongues,  Stewed  68 

Lamb  Tongues,  with  Tomato  Sauce  68 

I,OTTISIANA     BICE— Le    Riz     de    la 

liOuisiane — 

RICE    116 

Boiled  Rice,  Italian  Style  118 

Bread    118 

Calas     118 

Croquettes  of,  with  Fruit  119 

Croquettes   of,  with  Parsley    119 

Curry   of  Crawfish    117 

Custard    119 

Custard    of.    Frozen     120 

Dumplings    119 

Fried    121 

Fritters    of    121 

Flour.    Croquettes    of    119 

Griddle  Cakes    118 

How  to   Boil    116 

How  to  Make  a  Border  of  117 

How  to  Prepare  for  Cookinsr 116 

•     Jambalaya   au    Consri    116 

Jambalaya,  Creole  116 

Jambalaya,  Crab • 116 

Jambalaya,  Shrimp   llj 

Left    Over    121 

Meringue      j20 

Parched    121 

Pilaff  of.  with  Chicken  117 

Pilou,   French    IW 

Pilou  au  Riz  (Chicken  with  Rice) . .  117 

Pudding   of  Cream    120 

Snowballs   120 

Souffle       120 


296 


Things  to   Remember   in  Boiling. .  116 

Waffles    118 

With   Apples    120 

With   Chicken    117 

With  Compote  of  Oranges   121 

MACARONI,    SPAGHETTI- 
MACARONI    124 

Macaroni,  How  to  Boll  124 

Macaroni  Balls 126 

Macaroni,  Boiled,  Italian  Style 124 

Macaroni,  Creole  Style   125 

Macaroni,  with  Daube   126 

Macaroni,  au  Gratin 125 

Macaroni,    Milanese   Style    125 

Macaroni,    Neapolitan   Style    125 

Macaroni,  with  TomsLto  Sauce   ....  125 

Macaroni,  Timbales  of  126 

Spaghetti,  Boiled,  Italian  Style 125 

Spaghetti,  with  Daube   126 

Spaghetti,    Milanese    Style    125 

MABMAIiADES — Des  Marmalades — 

Directions    for   Making    a    Marma- 
lade    243 

Cherry    Marmalade    244 

Orange   Marmalade    244 

Peach  Marmalade    244 

Pineapple    Marmalade    244 

Quince  Marmalade 244 

Raspberry   Marmalade    244 

Strawberry  Marmalade    244 

Conser^'e    of    Grapes    244 

Orange  Flower  and  Rose  Conserves  245 

Violet  Conserve  245 

MELONS — Des    Melons- 
Cantaloupe     160 

Muskmelon      160 

Melon  on  Ice   160 

Watermelon  160 

MENUS— 

Creole  Home   Dining    286 

A  Suggestion  for  Each  Day  in  the 

Week    282 

Suggestions  for  Ecbnomical  Menus  287 
Suggestions  for  Holiday  Feasts  and 

Banquet    284 

Suggestion    for   Christmas    285 

Suggestion  for  Easter 284 

Suggestion  for  New  Tear's 284 

Suggestion  for  Thanksgiving  Day. .  285 
Old-Fashioned        Creole        Holiday 

Menus 286 

Special  Menus  for  Luncheons,  Buf- 
fet Luncheons,  Dinings,  Suppers, 

etc.,  for  Soirees 286 

Special  Suggestions  for  Table  Dec- 
orations   ..     ..     .* 284 

Table  Decorations  for  Christmas. .  286 

Table  Decoration  for  Easter   285 

Table  Decoration  tor  New  Tear's. .  284 
Table  Decoration  for  1  hanksgiving 

Day    285 

The  Dailj  Economical    Menu,  How 

to   Vary    288 

MUTTON- Mouton— 

MUTTON      63 

Mutton  Chops,  Broiled    64 

Mutton    Chops,    a    la    Brasseur....  64 

Mutton    Cutlets    64 

Mutton   Feet,   a  la  Lyonnaise    ....  65 

Mutton   Feet,   a   la   Poulette    64 

Mutton    Feet,    Stuffed    65 

Mutton    Hash    64 

Mutton,  Leg  of,  Boiled  with  Caper 

Sauce   63 

Mutton,    Leg    of.    Roast    63 

Mutton,    Loin    of.    Roast    63 

Mutton,    Saddle    of.    Roast 63 

Mutton,    Stew    6." 


Observations    on     63 

Sheep   Brains    65 

Sheep   Brains,    Brown    Sauce    65 

Sheep    Kidneys    65 

Sheep    Tongues,    Smothered 65 

Shoulder  of.   Smothered  with  Tur- 
nips      64 

Something  to   Remember  in  Cook- 
ing   Mutton    63 

Stew,  with  Turnips    64 

PASTRY    AND    PIES— Patisserie — 

PASTRT  AND  PIES   172 

Pastry,    Points    in    Making 172 

Paste,  Foundation  173 

Paste,    Plain,    for   Dumplings 174 

Paste,   Puff    173 

PIES    ■'74 

Pie    Crust    173 

Apple    Pie    174 

Apple   Tarts    174 

Apple  Meringue    174 

Ba;nana    174 

Banana    Meringue    174 

Blackberry     175 

Cherry   175 

Chocolate  Cream   175 

Cocoanut  175 

Creole  Cocoanut  175 

Cream   175 

Cranberry    175 

Custard    175 

Currant    ; 175 

Frangipanni     175 

Gooseberry    176 

Green   Gage    176 

Huckleberry    176 

Lemon     176 

Lemon    Meringue    176 

Mince    176 

Plain    Mincemeat    177 

Lenten    Mince    177 

Molasses     177 

Orange     177 

Peach     177 

Peach    Meringue    177 

Pear    178 

Pineapple    178 

Plantain     178 

Plantain    Meringue    178 

Pumpkin    178 

Raspberry    178 

Strawberry    178 

Sweet   Potato    Custard    178 

Vol-au-Vent    178 

Oyster  Patties   179 

PICKLING  .4ND  C-VXXIXG— Con- 
servation, des  Substances  .\Ii- 
mentaires    et    Vegetales — 

PICKLING    AND    CANNING    256 

Methods    of    255 

Canned   Corn    255 

Canned    Green    Peas    255 

Canned    Mushrooms     255 

Canned    Tomatoes     255 

CATSUPS    258 

Catsup,  Tomato    258 

Catsup,  Red  Pepper,  a  la  Creole. .  259 

CREOLE    MUSTARD     259 

MAUNSELL-WHITE 259 

PICKLES     255 

Home-Made    Chow-Chow    256 

Green    Pepper    Pickles    256 

Green   Tomato   Pickles    257 

Pickled    Fruits    258 

Mixed  Pickles    256 

Pickled    Cauliflower    256 

Pickled     Mangoes     257 

Pickled    Onions    257 

Pickled    String    Beans     257 

Pickled   Watermellon   Rind    257 

Sweet    Pickles     255 

Sour   Pickles    256 

VINEGARS     258 

Chervil     Vinegar     258 


297 


Pepper  Vinegar    258 

Spiced   Vinegar    258 

Tarragon    Vinegar    258 

SALTED     NUTS     259 

Salted  Almonds      259 

Salted   Peanuts    259 

TABASCO     258 

PIGEONS— 

Broiled    82 

Broiled,  a  la  Crapaudine  82 

Compote   of   Pigeons    82 

Pigeons   and   Crawfish 83 

Pigeon    Pie    83 

Roasted    Squab    82 

Squab    with    Green    Peas    83 

POBK — Du    Cochon — 

PORK    68 

Guides    In    Choosing    68 

BACON     (Petit    Sale) 71 

Bacon,    Boiled     71 

Bacon,    Fried     71 

HAM     (Jambon) 70 

Ham,   Boiled    70 

Ham,  Broiled    71 

Ham,  Broiled,  with  Cucumber  Gar- 
nish    71 

Ham,    Croquettes     v  •  ■  71 

Ham.  Fried      71 

Ham,   Souffle    71 

HOGSHEAD     CHEESE     70 

PIG    (Cochon    do    Lait) 68 

Pig,   Roasted   and   Stuffed    68 

Pigs'    Feet 69 

Pigs'  Feet,  Piquant  Sauce 89 

Pigs'    Feet,    Sauce    Robert    69 

Pigs'  Feet,  St.  Hubert  Style   69 

Pigs'  Feet,  Madeira  Sauce   70 

Pigs^    Feet,    Stuffed,    a    la    Peri- 

gueux 70 

Pigs'   Feet,   Tartar   Sauce 69 

Pigs'    Feet,    Tomato    Sauce 69 

PORK    (Du  Cochon)    68 

Pork    Chops,    Fried 69 

Pork.    Pickled     70 

Pork,    Roast     68 

Pork,    Roast,   Loin    of 68 

Pork.     Salt     Meat 70 

Pork,    Spare    Ribs    of 69 

Pork,    Tenderloin 69 

POULTRY— De  la    VolalUe— 

POULTRY     73 

Guides  in  Buying      73 

CAPONS      80 

CHICKEN    75 

Chicken,    a    la    Reine 78 

Chicken  Balls,   Queen's  Style 79 

Chicken,    Boned     79 

Chicken,     Boiled     75 

Chicken,   Boulettes    79 

Chicken,    Broiled    75 

Chicken,    Creamed    75 

Chicken,    Croquettes    of 79 

Chicken,    Casseroles    of 78 

Chjoken,     Deviled     75 

Chicken,     Fried     ,. . .  78 

Chicken,  Fried  with  Cream  Sauce.  78 

Chicken  Livers    80 

Chicken,  Patties,  Queen's  Style 79 

Chicken    Pie     79 

Chicken,     Roasted 78 

Chicken    Salad,    with    Mayonnaise 

Sauce    79 

Chicken,  Saute,  a  la  Creme 75 

Chicken,  Saute,  a  la  Creole 76 

Chicken,  Saute,  with  Green  Peas..  77 

Chicken,  Saute,  a  la  Jardiniere 77 

Chicken,    Saute,    a   la    Tartare 76 

Chicken,    Smothered    77 

Clhlcken.    Souffle    79 

Chicken,      Stewed,      with      Brown 

Sauce    76 

Chicken,      Stewed,      with      White 

Sauce    76 


Chicken,  Supreme,  de  Volaille,  a  la 

Louisianalse     77 

Chicken,  Supreme,  de  Volaille,  a  la 

Reine     78 

Chicken,  with  Dumplings 77 

Chicken,    with    Mushrooms 76 

Chicken,    with    Rice    77 

Chicken,    with    Truffles 77 

GUINEA    FOWLS    (Pintade) 80 

GOOSE     (Oie)      80 

Goose,    a    la    Chipolata 80 

Goose,   Daube    80 

Goose,    Roast    80 

Goose,  Fat  Livers  (Des    Foies  Gras)  80 

FOIBS  GRAS,  Patties  of 81 

Foies  Gras,  Loaf  of 81 

Foies   Gras,    Loaf,   Jellied 81 

Foies    G  ras.    Stewed 81 

TURKE1     (Dinde)     73 

Turkey,    Boned    74 

Turkey,     en     Daube 74 

Turkey,    Roast    73 

Turkey,    Roast,   with   Chestnuts    or 

Oysters     7i 

Turkey,   Roast,  "with  Mushrooms..  74 

Turkey,   Roast,  with  Truffles 74 

PKEST5RVBS — Des     Conserves — 

PRESERVES    245 

General  Directions  for  Making  Pre- 
serves       245 

Brandy    Peaches    246 

Fig    Preserves     245 

Fruit    Preserves     246 

Lemon  Preserves    245 

Orange    Preserves     246 

Oranges    (Small)    Preserved   Whole  246 

Peach    Preserves    245 

Pineapple    Preserves    246 

Quince  Preserves    246 

Watermelon    Rind    Preserves 246 

PUDDINGS.       DUMPLINGS    —    Des 

Poudingrs,   Des   Echaudes — 

DUMPLINGS     179 

Apple    Dumplings,     Old-Fashioned 

Creole        179 

Blackberry    Roll     179 

Boiled    Dumplings    179 

Baked  Dumplings   180 

Rice    Dumplings     180 

Boly  Poly    180 

PUDDINGS     180 

Baked   Puddings   and  Dumplings. .  179 

Apple    180 

Apple    Meringue    181 

Banana    181 

Birds'    Nest    181 

Bread    181 

Brown    Betty    181 

Cake    or    Bread    181 

Chocolate    181 

Cottage    181 

Cocoanut    182 

Cream     182 

Creole  Fig   182 

Creole   Summer  Pudding   18(5, 

Fig  182 

Indian     182 

Baked    Lemon     182 

Molasses       s 182 

Nesselrode    182 

Old-Fashioned   Creole   Plum    180 

Orange    183 

Peach   Batter    183 

Plum     180 

Fruit    Batter     183 

Pineapple    183 

Raspberry 183 

Sago    183 

Snow    183 

Strawberry   183 

Sweet   Potato    18* 

Tapioca  184 

The  Queen  of  all  Puddings   184 

Tipsy    Squire    184 


298 


PUDDING       SAUCES— Sauces       des 
Poudings — 

PUDDING   SAUCES    192 

Apple        192 

Apricot     192 

Brandy     192 

Hard  Brandy  192 

Caramel    192 

Chaufausen    192 

Cream    192 

Cream    of    Butter    193 

Cream  of  Vanilla    193 

Custard    193 

Foaming     193 

Fruit   193 

Golden    193 

Hard    193 

Hard  Sauce,  a  la  Creole    193 

Kirsch    193 

Lemon    193 

Madeira       193 

Madeira  Sabayon    194 

Orange     194 

Punch    194 

Rum    . .   - 194 

Silvery     : 194 

■'      Strawberry     194 

Vanilla     194 

Velvet    194 

Wihite  "Wine    194 

PUNCH— Ponche— 

PUNCH    234 

Champagne    Frappe     234 

Punch,   Champagne    234 

Punch,  Champagne,  a  la  Creole. .. .  234 

Punch.     Claret     234 

Punch,   Claret,    Creole    Style    234 

Punch,     Claret,    Hot     234 

Punch,    "Whiskey,    Hot    236 

Punch,     Louisiana     234 

Punch,    Milk     234 

Punch,       Orange,       New       Orleans 

Style     236 

Punch,    Rum     235 

Punah,   Strawberry    235 

Punch,    "White    "Wine     235 

Punch,  "White  Wine,  Creole  Style..  235 

Punch.     Tea     235 

QUENELLES — Foroemeats- 

QUENELLES     99 

Chicken    Quenelles    100 

Crab    Quenelles     100 

Creole  Quenelles 99 

Game    Quenelles     100 

Godiveaux  Quenelles    100 

Fish     Quenelles     100 

Sausage    Quenelles    99 

B-\T.4riAS— 

RATAFIAS     229 

How  to  Filter   230 

Proportions   of  Ingredients   for 230 

Ratafia,  Absinthe  or  "Wormwood..  230 

Ratafia,  Angelica  230 

Ratafia,   Aniseed    230 

Ratafia,    Fruit    230 

Ratafia,   of  Four  Fruits    , 231 

Orange    Ratafia     230 

Orange  Flower  Ratafia 230 

Peach  Kernel  Ratafia 231 

Pomegranate    Ratafia     231 

Raspberry  Ratafia    2S1 

Strawberry    Ratafia     231 

S.'VLADS — Des     Salades — 

SALADS   109 

Anchovy     110 

Artichoke       110 

Asparagus,    Tips    of    110 

Bean   110 

Bean     (String)     112 


Beet    110 

Cauliflower     U" 

Celery  JJO 

Celery     Mayonnaise     110 

Chicken    110 

Chervil     110 

Corn   Ill 

Crab,  a  la  Mayonnaise   Ill 

Crawfish    Ill 

Creole,  French  Dressing  for 109 

Cress    Ill 

Cucumber    Ill 

Dandelion    Ill 

Endive    Ill 

Fish    Ill 

French  Dressings  for  109 

Gardener's  "Wife  Salad   112 

Lentil   Ill 

Lettuce     Ill 

Louisiana    112 

Mayonnaise    Dressing     109 

Mustard    Dressing     109 

Okra    112 

Peppers,    Green     Ill 

Peppers,  Green,  a  I'Espagnole   tu 

Potato    112 

Remoulade   Dressing    110 

Russian    113 

Sardine     112 

Shrimp      113 

Spanish     112 

Tomato   Frappe    112 

Tomato.  Green  Pepper  and  Onion.  112 

Tomato   Salad       112 

Vinaigrette    110 

"Watercress    ni 

S.WCES  FOR  FISH,  MEATS. 
POULTRY,  GAME.  ETC. — Des 
Sauces  Pour  les  Poissons,  des 
\'iandes,  la  Volaille,  le  Gibier, 
etc. — 

SAUCES    100 

AUemande   108 

Anchovy         101 

Apple     101 

Bearnaise    , 101 

Bechamel     101 

Bordelaise    102 

Bordelaise,    Creole    Style    102 

Bread     102 

Brown     102 

Brown    Butter       102 

Caper    102 

Cauliflower     102 

Celery    103 

Chambord    102 

Champagne    103 

Chestnut     103 

Chili    103 

Colbert     103 

Cranberry    103 

Crapaudine 103 

Cream    103 

Creole     103 

Cucumber    103 

Currant   Jelly    103 

Demi-Glace    104 

Devil's    104 

Drawn    Butter     104 

Duxelle    10* 

Egg    104 

Financiere    105 

Genolse     104 

Giblet    104 

Glaze    101 

Hard   Egg   Sauce    104 

Hollandaise    104 

Horseradish    104 

Hunters'  Sauce   105 

Italian    106 

Jolie  Fille lOB 

Lyonnaise      105 

Madeira 106 

Maltre    d'Hotel    105 

Mayonnaise   lOB 

Mint     lOfi 


299 


Mushroom    106 

Normandy    106 

anion     . .     . . ; 106 

Oyster    106 

Parsley    106 

Pepper   106 

Pickle    107 

Piquant    107 

Poivrade     106 

Poulette    107 

Ravigote    107 

Remoulade  . . 107 

Robert    107 

Roux,  White  and  Brown   100 

Spanish    107 

Tartare     108 

Tomato     108 

Veloutee   108 

Vinaigrette     108 

White    108 

SAUSAGE— Sawcisses — 

SAUSAGE     71 

Boudtns    72 

Boudins    Blancs    73 

Creole    Sausage     71 

Chaurice     72 

Chaurice,   with    Creole    Sauce 72 

Chaurice,  with  Puree  of  Potatoes . .  72 

Chitterlings    73 

Saucisse    72 

Saucissons     72 

Sausages,    a   la    Creole    71 

STUFFINGS  AND  DRESSINGS 
FOB  POULTRY,  GAME,  FISH, 
ETC. — Des    Farcis — 

STUFFINGS   AND   DRESSINGS....  98 

Bread     ?5 

Egg      99 

Onion    99 

Oyster    (for    Fish    or    Game) 98 

Oyster     (for    Poultry) 98 

Stuffing    (for    Ducks) 99 

Stuffing    98 

Stuffing     (for    Geese) 99 

SHERBETS — Sorbets — 

SHERBET    222 

Apple    Siherbet     22^ 

Apricot         222 

Banana         222 

Cherry    222 

Currant     222 

Grape   222 

Lemon     222 

Orange     222 

Peach    , 223 

Pineapple   223 

Pomegranate       223 

Raspberry    223. 

Strawberry     223 

Watermelon    , 223 

sorp.s— 

SOUPS     2 

General   Directions   for   Making    . .  2 

Boiling     2 

Bouillon     5 

Bouillon,    to    Clarify    » 

Caramel,     for     Coloring     4 

Colorings    for     * 

Consomme     * 

Fish     Soups     '•  ° 

Herb    Bouquet     ° 

Lenten   Soups    ij 

Meat     Soups     ,• J 

Pot-au-Feu,   a  la  Creole    .••■.■ g 

Soup   Meat    (See    "Le  Bouilh  )....  15 

SOUPS— Fish     ,» 

Crab    IJ: 

Crawfish  Bisque    1" 

Crawfish    Soup    i" 

Fish     " 


Oyster    10 

Oyster,  Without  Milk    11 

Terrapin    9 

Turtle     (Green),    No.    1 8 

Turtle     (Green).    No.    2 9 

Turtle.    How   to    Serve    9 

Turtle,  Mock,  Eggs  for  9 

SOUPS — Lenten     (Potages     Maigre) .  11 

Carrot     13 

Chestnut     15 

Cocoanut      15 

Creani    of    Asparagus 14 

Cream    of    Barley 14 

Cream    of    Celery    14 

Cream    of   Corn    14 

Cream   of   Onions      13 

Cream    of    Rice    1* 

Cream    of    Tomato    14 

Cream    of   Spinach    14 

Dried  Pea    12 

Fast   Day   Broth    11 

Green    Pea     12 

Lentil    12 

Lettuce      13 

Okra    13 

Onion    13 

Potato    13 

Red   Bean    12 

Rice.   Without    Meat    15 

Sorrel     12 

Split    Pea    12 

Summer    Fast    Day     11 

Vegetable,    Without    Meat    12 

White    Bean     12 

Winter    Fast    Day     11 

W^inter  Okra  Soup    13 

SOUPS     —     MEAT  —  Consommme, 

Chicken    7 

Consomme,    Gilt-Edge     7 

Consomme,    with    Poached    Eggs..  7 

Chicken    Broth    7 

Corn     o 

Giblet   * 

Julienne     4 

Macaroni     5 

Mock     Turtle         6 

Mock  Turtle,  Forcemeat  Balls  for.  7 

Mushroom      5 

Mutton    Broth     7 

Noodle        I 

Okra    I 

Oxtail     I 

Pepper    Pot     = 

Potage    Crout,   au   Pot    6 

Queen    J 

Rabbit   | 

Rice     g 

Sago I 

Savory    ° 

Squirrel   ■ ° 

Tapioca     | 

Tomato     Consomme     ^ 

Vermicelli    ° 

SOUP     MEAT — TjCi    Bonilll — 

SOUP    MEAT    (Le    Bouilli) 15 

SOUP— Meat        (Bouilli)        Possibili- 
ties       15 

A  la  Bordelaise    16 

A  la  Bruxelloise   1° 

A  I'Indienne   16 

A  la  Lyonnaise  17 

A    la    Marseillaise     17 

A    la    Paysanne     16 

F.n    Papilottes     1° 

Bouilli    Gros    Sel    17 

Croauettes     17 

Hash,  a  Good  Every  Day    17 

Mirontons    15 

Sausage     17 

Saute,  a  la  Lyonnaise    16 

Saute,   with   Onions    17 

With    Carrot    Sauce     16 

With  Egg  Toast 17 

W^ith  Lettuce    16 

With     Tomatoes     16 


300 


SUGGESTIONS    TO    HOUSEKEEP- 

EKS— 

SUGGESTIONS    TO    HOUSEKEEP- 
ERS      272 

Comparative  Table  of  Weights  and 

Measures    272 

Cutting,    Chopping,    Slicing,    Minc- 
ing      273 

Directions    for    Serving    Meals 275 

Explanation    of    French    Terms    . .  273 

Foods.  Seasons  When   Procurable.  277 

Invalids.    Cookery    for    277 

Left-Over   Food.   How  to   Utilize..  277 
Rules    for    Mixing    Ingredients....  273 
Use    of   Broth,   Bouillon    and   Con- 
somme in   Cookery    273 

Use    of  Wines   and    Liquors    273 

SWEETBREADS— Bis    de    Vean— 

sw:eetbreads    59 

Sweetbreads    a    la    Creme 60 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Financiere 60 

Sweetbreads    a    la    Poulette 61 

Sweetbreads,  Broiled    61 

Sweetbreads    Crepinettes 61 

Sweetbreads.    Definition    of 59 

Sweetbreads,  Fried  and  Breaded . .  61 

Sweetbreads.    How   to    Blanche....  59 

Sweetbreads    in    Casseroles 61 

Sweetbreads,    Liarded,    with    MusCi- 

room     Sauce     60 

Sweetbreads,   with   Green    Peas....  60 

Sweetbreads.    Smothered    61 

Sweetbreads,    with    Truffles    60 

SWEET    ENTREMETS— I)<?s    Entre- 
mets   Sucres — 

FRITTERS    (Des  Beignets) 163 

Apple    Fritters     164 

Apricot    Fritters     164 

Banana    Fritters    164 

Banana    Fritters,    with    Cognac    or 

Bum      165 

Brioche    Fritters     165 

Cherry    Fritters    165 

Corn    Fritters     165 

Elderflower    Fritters    165 

Fig  Fritters   165 

Fritter  Batter,    a  la   Creole 163 

French  Fritter  Batter 164 

Fritters,  Souffle,  a  la  Vanille 165 

l^mon   Fritters    165 

Orange   Fritters    165 

Peach  Fritters   166 

Pear    Fritters    166 

Pineapple    Fritters    166 

Pineapple    Cream    Fritters    166 

Queen    Fritters    166 

Plain    Fritter    Batter,    for    Meats, 

Poultry,    etc 164 

Plain    Fritters     164 

Rice    Fritters 166 

Sago    Croquettes     166 

Strawberry  Fritters    166 

Surprise  Fritters 166 

Sweet   Omelet   Fritters    167 

Apples,    Baked    167 

Apples,    Charlotte    167 

Apples,    Fried     167 

Apples,    Stewed    167 

Bananas,  Fried  ' 168 

Blackberry     Charlotte,      or     Rasp- 
berry      167 

Cherry   Charlotte    167 

Currant  Charlotte    167 

Doughnuts     168 

Fruit    Toast,    with    Cherries,    Apri- 
cots   or    Raspberries    168 

Orange    Salad    168 

Stewed  Peaches    168 

Sweet  Omelet  Entremets   168 

Wine   and    Liquor   Entremets 168 

PANCAKES    (Crepes) 168 

French    Pancakes    168 

French   Pancakes,   with   Jelly 168 


SYRUPS — Des    Slrops — 

SYRUPS    (Des   Slrops) 226 

General      Directions     for     Making 

Syrups    226 

CREAM      SYRUPS      (Slrops      a      la 

Creme) 232 

Absinthe    Cream    232 

Bay  Leaf  Cream 233 

Cocoa  Cream   233 

Cherry  Water  Cream    233 

Cream    of    Roses    233 

Elixir  of  Violets  233 

Mint    Cream    233 

Mocha  Cream    233 

EAU    SUCRE        226 

FRUIT    SYRUPS    226 

Apricot    Syrup     227 

Banana   Syrup    227 

Blackberry  Syrup 227 

Cherry  Syrup 227 

Cranberry  Syrup   227 

Currant    Syrup    227 

Currant      Syrup,      with      Raspber- 
ries      227 

Grape  Syrup  227 

Lemon  Syrup  227 

Lime   Syrup    228 

Orange   Sjrup    228 

Orgeat    Syrup    228 

Peach    Syrup    228 

Pineapple   Syrup    228 

Plum  Syrup 228 

Strawberry    Syrup    228 

Raspberry   Syrup    228 

Vanilla  Syrup    228 

Blackberry  Vinegar   228 

Orange    Vinegar    229 

Pineapple  Vinegar 229 

Raspberry  Vinegar   229 

Strawberry  Vinegar  229 

FRUIT    WATERS     (Eau    de    Fruits 

Glaces)   231 

Aromatic  Water 231 

Cherry  Water      231 

Orange  Water   232 

Orgeat  Water    232 

Strawberry    Water    232 

LEMONADE    231 

Iced    Lemonade    232 

Hot  Lemonade    232 

Frog  Lemonade    . .    .          232 

ORANGEADE    232 


TRIPE — Double-Gras- 


TRIPE  

Tripe,   a  la  Creole 

Tripe,  a  la  Lyonnaise 

Tripe,  a  la   Mode    de   Caen. 

Tripe,  a  la  Poulette 

Tripe,   Pried    

Tripe.    Stewed    


VE.VL — Dn   Veau — 

VEAL    

Gnides    in    Choosing    

Veal,   Blanquette   of 

Veal.    Breast   or   Shoulder,    Stuffed 

and  Roasted   

Calves'  Brains,  with  Brown  Butter 

Sauce  

Calves'  Brains,  Fried  

Calves'  Head,  a  la  Poulette 

Calves'  Head,  a  la  'Tortue 

Calves'  Liver,  a  la  Bourgeoise 

Calves'    Liver.    Fried    

Calves'  Feet,  a  la  Poulette 

Calves'  Feet,  Italian  Sauce 

Calves'  Feet,  Piquant  Sauce 

Calves'  Feet,  Plain  

Calves'  Feet,  Sauce  Remoulade 

Calves'  Feet,  Tomato  Sauce 

Veal,    Cream    of 

Veal,    Ch-oquettes   of 

Veal    Cutlets,   a  la   Milanaise 

Veal    Cutlets.    Breaded 


62 
62 
62 
62 
62 
62 
d2 


53 
S3 
57 

54 

58 
58 
58 
58 
58 
58 
59 
59 
59 
59 
69 
69 
56 
58 
55 
64 


301 


Veal  Cutlets,  Breaded  and  Broiled.  54 

Veal   Cutlets,   en   Papilottes 55 

Veal  Cutlets,  Smothered,  a  la  Cre- 
ole   55 

Veal  Daube.  a  la  Creole 55 

Veal,    en    Ratoutille 56 

Veal,  Filet  of,  witli  Mushrooms  or 

Truffles  54 

Veal.    Fricandeau    of 55 

Veal,    Jellied     57 

Veal,    Liver    of.    Fried,    with    Ba- 
con      59 

Veal   Loaf    57 

Veal.  Loin  of,   Roasted    53 

Veal    Patties    57 

Veal  Pot  Pie   57 

Veal,    Roast,    -with   Fine    Herbs....  54 
Veal,      Shoulder      of.    Stuffed    and 

Roasted    54 

Veal.    Stewed    56 

Veal.  Stewed,  with  Mushrooms....  56 

Veal.    Stewed,    with    Potatoes 56 

Veal,    with    Olives 57 

VEGETABLES — Des    liegumes— 

VEGETABLES    131 

ARTICHOKES     131 

Artichokes,   a  la  Vinaigrette 132 

Artichokes     (French),    Boiled 131 

Artiiihokes  (Jerusalem) ,  Boiled  ....  131 

Artichokes.    Fried     131 

Artichokes,    Puree    of 131 

Artichokes,     Sautees     131 

Artichokes.     Stuffed 132 

ASPARAGUS     132 

Asparagus,    Boiled    132 

Asparagus,  Tips,  with  Green  Peas.  132 

Asparagus,   Vinaigrette    Sauce 132 

BEANS    (Des  Haricots) 132 

Bacon  and  Beans,   a  la  Creole....  134 

Beans     (Red) 133 

Beans    (Red),  a  la  Conde 134 

Beans    (Red),   Boiled    133 

Beans    (Red),    Burgundy    Style 134 

Beans,    Croquettes 135 

Beans    (Lima.)    135 

Bean   Polenta    134 

Beans    (Redj,    Puree    of 134 

Beans    (Red) ,   and   Rice 134 

Beans   (String),  a  la  Poulette 133 

Beans  (String),  Boiled  with  Ham..  133 

Beans   (String),  Brittainy  Style 133 

Beans   (String),  Butter  Sauce 133 

Beans   (String),  Cream  Sauce 133 

Beans    (String),   Vinaigrette    Sauce  133 

Beans   (String) ,  Panaches 133 

Beans    (White) 134 

Beans    (W^hite),  a  la  Maitre   d'Ho- 

tel   134 

BTUTTERBEANS    (Feves   Plates) 135 

BEETS    (Des  Bettraves)    135 

Beets.    Boiled    135 

Beets.  Buttered    135 

Beets.    Sauted,    in    Butter 135 

Beet  Roots,   a  la  Bechamel 135 

Beet  Roots,  a  la  Creme 135 

Beet  Tops    157 

BORECOLE.    OR    CURLED    KALE 

(Chou    Vert)     136 

BROCCOLI    (Chou   Brocoli)    136 

BRUSSELS     SPROUTS      (Choux  de 

Bruxelles)    136 

Brussels  Sprouts,  a  la  Creme 136 

Brussels   Sprouts,    Sauted,    in  But- 
ter      136 

CABBAGE    (Du  Chou)    136 

Cabbage,    Boiled    136 

Cabbage    and    Corned    Beef 136 

Cabbage,  Creamed 137 

Cabbage,    Sauted,   with   Cream 137 

Cabbage,    Stewed    137 

Cabbage,    Stewed,    with    Sausage . .  137 

Cabbage,   Stuffed    ..    ■■■■■■■■■ 137 

Cabbage,      Stuffed,      with      Cream 

Sauce    13" 

CAULIFLOVS^ER    (Chau   Fleurs) 138 

Cauliflower,   Boiled,   with  Butter. .  138 


Cauliflower,  Boiled,  Cream  Sauce.  138 

Cauliflower,    au    Gratin 139 

Cauliflower,   a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel..  139 

Cauliflower,  a  la  Vinaigrette 139 

Cauliflower,  with  White  Sauce 138 

CARROTS    (Des   Garrottes) 139 

Carrots,    a    la   Creme 139 

Carrots,    a    la    Lyonnaise 139 

Carrots,   a   la   Maitre   d'Hotel 139 

Carrots,  Sautes,  a  la  Creole 139 

Carrots,    Stewed    189 

CELERY    (Du  Celeri) 140 

Celery,    with    Beef's    Marrow 140 

Celery,    Creamed    140 

Celery,    a    I'Bspagnole 140 

Celery    Fritters    140 

Celery  Mayonnaise    110 

Celery    Patties     140 

Celery,    au    naturel 140 

Celery,   aux  Petits  Pols 140 

Celery   Salad    140 

CEPS    (Ceps)      140 

Ceps,  Broiled,  on  Toast 141 

Ceps  on  Toast 140 

CHERVIL     (Oerfeuil) 141 

Chervil  Salad   110 

Chervil    Vinegar    . .     . ,' 258 

CHESTNUTS     (Marrons) 141 

Chestnuts,   Boiled    141 

Chestnuts,    with    Brown    Sauce....  141 

Chestnuts,  Stewed 141 

CHIVES    (Cives)     141 

COLLARDS    141 

CORN    (Du    Mais)     1ft 

Corn.  Baked,   a  la  Creme 142 

Corn    Cakes    142 

Corn.    Creamed        142 

Com.    on    Cob    141 

Corn,   Fried    142 

Corn.    Fritters     142 

Corn    (Green),   Planters'    Style 141 

Corn    Pudding     142 

Corn.   Roasted    142 

Com    Salad    143 

Corn,    Sauted,    with    Butter 142 

Com    Soup     142 

Com   and   Tomatoes li'i 

COWPEAS     135 

CRESS    (Cresson)     143 

Cress.   Salad    Ill 

CUCUMBER         143 

Cucumber,    as    a    Garnish 15/3 

Cucumber,    as    a   Relish 143 

Cucumber    Salad    HI 

CURRY    (Karl)    143 

DANDELION  (Dent-de-lvlon) 143 

Dandelion,     Greens,    Boiled 143 

Dandelion.    Salad    Ill 

EGGPLANT    (Des    Aubergines)...,,.  143 

Eggplants,    Fried     143 

Eggplant,    Fritters    143 

Eggplant,     Stewed     143 

Eggplant,    Stuffed     143 

ENDIVES    (De    la    Chiooree) 144 

Endive,   with   Cream    Sauce 144 

Endive,    ■with    Gravy    144 

Endive.   Salad    Ill 

GARLIC    (De    I'AJl) 144 

HORSERADISH     (Raifort) 145 

KOHL-RABI.     OR    TURNIP-ROOT- 
ED   CABBAGE    (Chou    Navet) . .  145 

LEEKS    145 

LENTILS    (Des    Lentiles)     145 

Lentil.    Salad    Ill 

MANGOES     (Mangos)     155 

MUSHROOMS    (Des   Champignons) .  145 

Mushrooms,  with  Cream   145 

Mushrooms.    Fried    145 

Mushrooms,  Stewed,  Spanish  Style  145 

Mushrooms,    Stewed,    on   Toast 145 

MUSTARD     (Moutarde) 146 

OKRA    (Du    Fevi) 146 

Okra,    Boiled    146 

Okra,   Stewed,   a   la   Creole 146 

ONIONS     (De    I'Olgnon) 146 

Onions,   Baked    147 

Onions,    Boiled    146 

Onions,    Creanxed     146 


302 


Onions,   Fried      116 

Onions,    Glazed     I'l^ 

Onions,     SmoUiered     147 

Onions,   Stuffed    1« 

PARSLEY     (Persil) 147 

Parsley,    Chopped    147 

Parsley,    Fried    147 

Parsley,   Green    147 

Parsley,   for  Garnishing  Purposes.  148 

PARSNIPS     (Des     Panais) 148 

Parsnip    Balls     148 

Parsnips,    Boiled    148 

Parsnips,   with   Cream    Sauce 148 

Parsnips,  Fried   148 

Parsnips,     Fritters     1^8 

Parsnips,    Mashed     148 

Parsnips,     Smothered     148 

PEAS    (Des    Pols    Sees) 148 

Peas    (Dried) 134 

Peas    (Kidney,    or   Black-Eyed) 148 

Peas    (Split)    148 

GREEN  PEAS    (Des  Pols  Verts) 148 

Green    Peas,    Boiled     149 

Green  Peas,  a  la  Bourgeoise 149 

Green  Peas,  a  la  Paysanne 149 

Green  Peas.  Canned,  How  to  Cook  148 

Green  Peas,  French  Style 149 

Green  Peas,  Old  Creole  Style 149 

Green    Peas,    Puree    of,    a    la    Cre- 
ole      149 

Green  Peas,  Puree  of,  a  la  St.  Ger- 
main      149 

PEPPERS,  Hot   (Du  Piments) 1591 

Cayenne    154 

Chili     154 

Pimentos      154 

Tabasco    154 

PEPPERS,      Green       (Des      Piments 

Verts)     154 

Peppers   (Green),  Sauted    154 

Peppers    (Green) ,   Stuffed    154 

POTATOES      (De      la      Pomme      de 

Terre)     150 

Potatoes.    Baked     151 

Potato  Balls   152 

Potatoes,    Brabant    151 

Potatoes,    Boiled     150 

Potatoes,   a   la   Bourgeois 151 

Potatoes,   a   la   Creme 150 

Potatoes,   a   la   Creole 152 

Potatoes,  a  la  Diable 152 

Potatoes,    a    la    Duchesse 152 

Potatoes,   a  la   Francaise 151 

Potatoes,  a  la  Lyonnaise 151 

Potatoes,   a  la  Julienne 151 

Potatoes,    a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel 150 

Potatoes,    a    la    Neige 150 

Potatoes,    a    la    Parisienne 152 

Potatoes,  au  Gratin 151 

Potatoes,   as   a  Garnish 153 

Potatoes,  with  Drawn  Butter 150 

Potato    Chips    151 

Potatoes.    Creamed    150 

Potato    Croquettes     150 

Potatoes.   French   Fried 151 

Potatoes.  New,  with  Butter 152 

Potato    Puffs    150 

Potato   Quenelles    152 

Potato    Snow    150 

Potatoes.   Souffle    151 

Potatoes.     Steamed     150 

Potatoes,    Stuffed,    a   la    Creole 153 

Potatoes,    Stuffed,   I^nten   Style...  153 

Potatoes,    Stuffed,    Swiss    Style 153 

PUMPKIN  (Des  Citrouilles,  des  Gir- 

aumonts    ou    de    Potiron) 155 


Pumpkin,    Baked    155 

Pumpkin,    Stewed    155 

RADISHES    (Des    Radis) 155 

Radish    Tops    157 

ROQUETTE    155 

SAXSIFT,      OR      OYSTER      PLANT 

(Salsifls)     155 

Salsify,  or  Oyster  Plant,  a  la  Creme  155 
Salsify,  or  Oyster  Plant,  a  la  Pou- 

lette   155 

Salsify,  or  Oyster  Plant,  Fritters..  156 
Salsify,    or    Oyster    Plant,    Sauted, 

in   Butter    155 

SAUERKRAUT     (Chou-Croute) 138 

SHALLOTS    (Eschallottes)     147 

SORREL    (De    I'Oseille)     157 

Sorrel,    au    Gras    157 

Sorrel,    au    Malgre    157 

Puree  of  Sorrel    _ 157 

SPINACH    (Des    Epinards) 156 

Spinach,     Boiled     156 

Spinach,  a  la  Creme   156 

Spinach,   a  la  Cuisiniere    156 

Spinach,  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel 156 

Spinach,  with  Hard-Boiled  Eggs . .  156 

Spinach,  au  Jus,  a  la  Bourgeois..  156 

SQUASH    (Courge)     157 

SWEET    POTATOES     (Des    Patates 

Douces)     153 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Baked   153 

Sweet    Potatoes,    Boiled 153 

Sweet   Potatoes,    au    Caramel 153 

Sweet   Potatoes.   Fried    153 

Sweet   Potato   Fritters    154 

Sweet  Potato  Pone   154 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding    154 

Sweet   Potato   Waffles    154 

TOMATOES    (Des  Tamates)    157 

Tomatoes.  Broiled  157 

Tomatoes.    Fried    157 

Tomatoes,    au    Gratin    157 

Tomatoes.    Puree    of    158 

Tomato    Salad     158 

Tomatoes,    Scalloped    158 

Tomatoes,    Stewed    157 

Tomatoes.    Stuffed    158 

Tomatoes.   Stuffed,  a  la  Creole 158 

TURNIPS    (Des  Navets)    158 

Turnips.   Baked    158 

Turnips.    Boiled    158 

Turnips.    Creamed     158 

Turnips,  Fried  in  Butter   159 

Turnips,    Glazed     158 

Turnips.     Mashed     158 

Turnip  Tops   157 

Turnip  Tops,  a  la  Creole 159 

TRUFFLES    (Des   Truffes) 159 

Truffles,    with    Champagne 159 

Truffles,    on    Minced    Toast 159 

Truffles.    Spanish    Style 159 

VEGETABLE  PEAR   (Mirliton) 159 

WATERCRESS     143 


WIN  E  S — Domestic — 

WINES,    DOMESTIC     (Liqueurs    de 

Fruits)     239 

Wine,   Blackberry    239 

Wine.  Currant     239 

Wine.    Elderberry    239 

Wine,  Louisiana  Orange   240 

Wine.  Muscadine    240 

Wine,  Sassafras  Mead   239 

Wine,    Souppernong    240 

Wine,    Strawberry    240 


