
THE 
MANILA COOK BOOK 




3 1924 059 639 21 



COMPH ID 
CENTKAL 1 lei'i-IODlfT CHURCH 



^>' .iMAN'S AUXILl \ Mt 'JNiOiM 

CltURi *; OF M >M i^ 







£:«^: 




ir/*^* 



|IL1P"'..C 11, viTON COMPAf V, [N.r. 



^ 



^ 




^ 



K 






^ 

•^:^ 



\ 



X 



CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 




SCHOOL OF 

HOTEL ADMINISTRATION 

LIBRARY 

Gift of THOMAS BASS 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924059639215 



THE 
MANILA COOK BOOK 



COMPILED BY THE GUILD 

OF THE 

CENTRAL METHODIST CHURCH 



REVISED BY THE 

WOMAN'S AUXILIARY OF THE UNION 
CHURCH OF MANILA 

CGiSj.\iiLL OiViv _A^i_i. 

LIBRARIES 
ITHACA. N. Y. 14833 



THIRD EDITION 





Hotel Admin irrratioa Library 

Static, 'all 



AUQ 2 8 2002 



MANILA 
I9I9 



fJ-^4^ 



7Z^ 



COPYRIGHT 

PHILIPPINE EDUCATION CO., Inc. 

MANILA 

1919 



CONTENTS 



Bread ... . 77 

Cake - - . - 91 

Candy . , . - 157 

Cold Pack Method of Canning 179 

Cheese -- -61 

Cookies .... . . . 105 

Curries . 66 

Desserts - 119 

Eggs 73 

Entrees - ... .... 66 

Fireless Cooker .... ... . 177 

Fish ... . . ' . . - - 11 

Fish, What to Serve With - - - 163 

Frozen Dainties ... . ....134 

Hot Breads .... .... 77 

Meats .... ... .24 

Meats, What to Serve With ... - . 163 

Menus - 168 

Pastry - - . - ... .112 

Pickles - - - - 146 

Poultry .... ... . - 32 

Preserves - - ..... j46 

Puddings .... ... . 119 

Punches ... . - - . - - 143 

Saladi - - 52 

Sandwiches ..... -. 86 

Sauces for Fish and Meat .... ....2I 

Sauces for Puddings and Desserts .... . 130 

Shell Fish - ... - ... 17 

Soups ...-.-- .... 6 

Suggestioni * - 183 

Vegetables .... 37 



'We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks". 



^mp2 fnr a iag 




AKE a dash of water cold, 
And a little leaven of prayer, 
A little bit of sunshine gold, 
Dissolved in the morning air. 
Add to your meal some merriment. 
And a thought for kith and kin. 
And then as a prime ingredient 
Plenty of work thrown in. 
But spice it all with the essence of love 
And a little whiff of play. 
Let a wise old Book and a glance above 
Complete the well spent day". 



SOUPS 



Consomme, or stock, forms the basis of all meat soups. Fresh, uncooked 
beef, with the addition of cracked bones, makes the best stock, as the gluti- 
nous matter contained in them renders it important that they should be boiled 
with the meat to add to the strength and thickness of the soup. 

Meats for soup should be put to cook in cold water, in a covered pot, 
and allowed to simmer slowly for several hours, and should be carefully 
skimmed to prevent them from becoming turbid. Never boil fast, and add hot, 
not cold water. Do not salt until meat is tender. Allow a quart of water 
to a pound of meat and bone, and a teaspoon of salt. Strain. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 



BOUILLON 

1 pound of beef 1 turnip 

1 carrot cabbage leaf 

celery parsley 

Makes one quart. One pound of beef, upper part of round. Cut ve- 
getables in small pieces and let lie in cold water. Cut meat in cubes, no fat, 
wash and put on stove in three quarts of cold water with vegetables. Season 
to taste. Cook ten hours. Strain. 



BLACK BEAN SOUP 

Mrs. 0. M. Shuman. 

1 pint black beans ^ saltspoon cayenne 

1 quart cold water 1 lemon 

1 small onion 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 quart beef stock 

1 saltspoon pepper 
Soak the beans over night in cold water. In the morning, drain off and 
put in a sauce pan with cold water. Add the onion and cook until soft. 
Mash through colander, add the beef stock, salt and pepper. Slice hard-boiled 
eggs and lemon. Place one slice lemon and eggs as desired, to each plate of 
soup. 



CHICKEN SOUP 

stock from 1 chicken 2 tablespoons parsley 

2 tablespoons rice 2 tablespoons celery 

Stock from fricasseed chicken. Skim off grease. Take 1 quart of stock. 
Put in rice, parsley, celery. Cook one hour. Season. 

BASIS FOR CREAM SOUP 

1 cup milk Vi teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter Va teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour 1 to 2 cups vegetable pulp 

Cook vegetables until soft. Strain. To one quart of soup, add from 
one to two cups of vegetable pulp. Add salt and pepper. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 
2/3 can asparagus 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint scalded milk 1 tablespoon flour 

salt and pepper to taste 
Cook asparagus until very tender. Rub through strainer. Add this to 
scalded mOk. Eub flour and butter together and stir into the milk. Cook 
up. Season with salt and pepper. Serve. 



SOUPS 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Mrs. Ben. F. Wright. 

1 can asparagus 1 cup evaporated cream 

2 cups boiling water butter, size of walnut 
1 tablespoon flour or corn starch salt and pepper 

The canned asparagus makes delicious soup this way: — First cut off the 
tender ends and press the pulp from the fibrous stems by rubbing through 
a sieve. Add this pulp to the juice from the can. Have ready the boiling 
water, in which the corn starch or flour has been thoroughly cooked. Then 
add the cream, the juice, and the pulp, and let it just reach the boiling point. 
Add the tender tips, salt, pepper, and butter. Serve. 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Sirs. C. H. Smith. 
1 pint of cooked celery 1 tablespoon flour 

1 quart of milk 1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon celery salt 

% saltspoon white pepper 
Add stewed and sifted celery to the following foundation. Milk, butter 
and flour creamed, onion juice, celery salt, white pepper and a dash of cayen- 
ne or little slices of sweet pepper. 



MARROW BALLS FOR ABOVE 

Mrs. C. E. Smith. 
1 tablespoon marrow 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs salt and pepper to taste 

part of raw egg 

Mix together cooked marrow, bread crumbs, parsley, salt and pepper. 
Add enough raw egg to this mixture to insure the balls not coming to pieces 
in cooking. Form into balls the size of filberts. Roll in raw egg and fine 
bread crumbs or flour. Simmer in soup a few minutes before serving. 



CORN SOUP 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 
1 pint or 1 can corn 1 teaspoon flour 

1 pint water 2 teaspoons butter 

1 quart milk 1 slice onion 

salt and pepper to taste 
Cook the corn in the water thirty minutes. Scald the milk with the 
onion, and when it boils add the butter and floor, creamed. Cook for a few 
minutes. Add the corn. Cook a little longer. Strain and serre. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 



MONGO SOUP (Very nutritious) 

1 cup mongo salt, pepper and 

l-Vz quarts water other seasoning 

Wash mongo. Cover with water and let it stand in water all day. Drain. 
Add water, salt, pepper, and any other desired seasoning, and simmer until 
the mongo is tender (about two hours). Press through a sieve. Add onion. 
Serve. 

If desired, some coeoanut mUk may be added in place of some of the 
water, but if the mUk is used, add after the milk is ready to serve, as boiling 
coeoanut milk causes it to separate. If the mongo is ground (put through 
a coffee mill), it will be much more nourishing, as much of the nourishment 
clings to the skins. 



PUREE OF PEAS 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 

1 can or pint of shelled peas 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups white stock 2 tablespoons flour 
(made of veal or chicken) 

2 cups milks salt and pepper to taste 

Proceed as with corn soup. 



POTATO CHOWDER 

Mrs. G. A. Miller. 
Into a stew pan put some slices of bacon. When hot put in sliced pota- 
toes. Add enough water to cover. After the water has boiled down add 
crackers. Cover with diluted cream and simmer until done. 



TOMATO SOUP 

12 tomatoes 5 tablespoons flour 

2 teaspoons sugar 3 tablespoons butter 

14 teaspoon soda I-V2 teaspoons salt 

4 cups ginetan % teaspoon pepper 

Place tomatoes in boiling water. RemoTa skins. Cook them for fifteen 
minutes, with sugar and soda. Run through a siere. 

Mix the ginetan (obtained by pouring hot water through grated co- 
eoanut) and flour well together. Heat until thickened, stirring constantly. 
Add butter, salt and pepper. Combine tha mixtures and reheat. 



10 SOUPS 



TOMATO SOUP 

Mrs. F. W. Van Buskirk. 
1 quart stewed tomatoes V2 teaspoon soda 

1 medium size onion 1 quart milk 

butter size of an egg 1 cup cooked rice 

Slice onion. Fry in butter until it begins to brown. Add tomatoes and 
stir together. Cook untU onion is thoroughly done. Strain. Add soda, then 
milk. Let it boil up and serve. The addition of cooked rice makes it very 
nice. 



PUREE OF TOMATO SOUP 

Mrs. F. W. Van Buskirk. 
1 can tomatoes % teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup canned cream 

I-V2 teaspoons butter 1% tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon salt 
Boil tomatoes twenty minutes. Strain. Mix together flour and butter. 
While tomatoes are boiling stir in flour and butter. Add soda and cream, 
diluted with half water, salt and sugar. Serve almost immediately. Six 
people. 



QUICK TOMATO SOUP 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 
1 can tomatoes 2 tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon sugar 
some celery 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 1 saltspoon pepper 

1 saltspoon soda 
Put tomato, onion and celery into a sauce pan. Cover. Bring to a 
boiling point. Add flour and butter rubbed together. Stir carefully until 
mixture boils and thickens. Add sugar, salt, pepper and soda. Press through 
a sieve. Reheat and serve. 



FISH 



We have received numerous requests for information regarding edible 
&h of the Philippine Islands. "We can give nothing definite concerning the 
seasons for special fish nor the cost in different parts of the Islands, but 
we give as follows, from the Philippine Journal of Science: 

"There are four different species of anchovies in these waters, called 
Dilis by the Filipinos. This fish is almost transparent with very thin deci- 
duous scales. It is a delicate little fish with a fine flavor in oil or spice, or 
if made into a paste. 

"The Herrings consist of thirteen distinct species and abound in almost 
all the Islands. They are commonly called Silinasi. These are generally 
dried by the natives, but when fresh are gray blue on the back and sides 
and white underneath. They are small fish. 

"The Silverside, called "Guno" in Tagalog and Moro, and "Ti-i" in 
Ilocano, is without doubt the most abundant in the Philippines. They grow 
to a length of from ten to twelve centimeters and have a greenish tint on 
the back, and a bright silvery band on both sides. 

"There are eight species of the Mackerel Family found in the Islands, 
the most important of which is the "Tanguingue" which is a true Spanish 
Mackerel, and is regarded by many as the finest food fish in the Philippine 
waters. This species is fairly abundant and sells from one to four pesos 
a fish. It has a blue stripe on the back and dark blue stripes across the 
sides, and is white underneath. 

"Red Snappers, getting their name from their bright, red color, are 
among the most delicious of the island fish. When full grown they range 
from twenty-five to ninety centimeters in length. They can be found in 
nearly all of the markets and especially in Zamboanga, where a large one 
may be bought for forty centavos. In Manila however they are much more 
expensive. 

"The Pompanos called "Talakitok" in Tagalog are very abundant in 
almost all markets. They range from thirty-two to thirty-six centimeters 
in length and are a greenish yellow color with brown stripes across the back. 

"The Basses are composed of thirty-three different species weighing 
from twenty-five to thirty-five kilos. The largest branch of this family is 
called "Lapo-lapo" in Tagalog, "Garopa" in Visayan and "Kukkut" in 
Moro. These fish bring a high price in the Manila market and are a favor- 
ite sea food for many Americans. They are brown with darker brown spots 
all over them. 

"The Mullets can always be found in the market, and when quite fresh 
and properly cooked are most delicious. They are about forty centimeters 
in length and are of an almost uniform silver gray color. 

"The mUk fishes are called "Bangos" by the natives and resemble the 
Mullet, but have only one fin on the back while the Mullets have two. These 
sometimes reach the size of a meter in length. The milk fish is the most 
abundant fish in the Manila market. Frequently during protected rough 
weather it is the only variety obtainable." 

In selecting fish, choose those only in which the eye is full and pro- 
minent, the flesh thick and firm, the scales bright, and fins stiff. They 
should be thoroughly cleaned before cooking. 

11 



12 FISH 

BAKED FISH 

Fill the fish with a nicely prepared stuffing of rolled cracker or stale 
bread crumbs, seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, sage, etc. Sew up. Bake 
fish slowly, basting often with butter and water. 



FISH STUFFING 

1 eup bread crumbs 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

14 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

% teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon capers 

^ cup melted butter 1 teaspoon pickle 

mix well 



BAKED FISH 

Dressing Sauce 

4 hard boiled eggs, chopped fine 4 eggs, hard boiled 

1 cup bread crumbs % cup vinegar 

salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon butter 

pinch of parsley salt and pepper to taste 

chopped onion 
Clean, dry well, and fill with dressing. Tie well with cord to keep the 
dressing in. Put in baking pan with a little water; keep moist while cook- 
ing by basting. When done put on a platter and clip the string. Make a 
sauce of eggs, vinegar, butter, pepper and salt. Let it cook until thick and 
then pour over the fish. 



BOILED FISH 

Put fish into cold water and set on the fire to cook gently, or the outside 
will break before the inner part is done. When boiling fish add a little 
vinegar and salt to the water, to season and prevent the nutriment from 
being drawn out. The garnishes for boiled fish are parsley, sliced beets, 
lemon, or sliced boiled eggs. 



CREAMED FISH 

Cream Sauce 
2 cups cold fish 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup cream sauce 1 tablespoon flour 

salt and pepper to taste 1 cup milk or cream 

squares of buttered toast 

Shred any left OTer fish, taking out bones and skin ; then mix with hot 
sauce. Stir until smooth. You can serve on squares of buttered toast, or 
put in a deep dish, cover with bread crmnbs, and brown. 

Sauce : — Mix butter and flour into smooth paste. Add milk or eream. 
Cook until thick and smooth. Poor over fish. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 13 

CREAMED FISH 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
1 tablespoon butter 1 level teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour 1 salt spoon pepper 

% pint milk 1 pint cooked fish 

Rub together butter and flour. Add milk. Stir until boiling. Take 
from fire. Add salt and pepper and cold cooked fish picked into flakes. 
Stand this over hot water until thoroughly heated. Serve on toast, in pate 
shells, potato cases, or in a potato border. 



FRIED FISH 

Season with salt and pepper. Dredge with flour. Brush over with 
beaten egg. Roll in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard or drippings suf- 
ficient to cover. If the fat is very hot, the fish will fry without absorbing 
it, and it will be palatably cooked. When browned on one side, turn it over 
in the fat and brown the other; draining when done. Serve with tomato 
sauce, garnished with sliced lemons. 



SCALLOPED FISH IN RAMEKINS 

Mrs. J. B. Bodgers. 

1 medium can fish-flakes V2 onion 

2 hard-boiled eggs white sauce 

Pick over can of fish-flakes. Chop onion and eggs. Miz all together 
with rich white or cream sauce. Bake in ramekins. Dust top of each 
with buttered bread or cracker crumbs. 



CREAMED CODFISH 

1/2 pound salt codfish dash of pepper 

1 tablespoon butter 1 egg yolk 

1 tablespoon flour % teaspoon salt 

% pint of milk 

Pick apart codfish. "Wash thoroughly in two waters. Soak over 
night in cold water. Next morning, drain, cover with boiling water and 
cook below the boiling point for five minutes. Drain and press. Rub but- 
ter and flour together. Add milk. Stir until boiling. Add a dash of pepper 
and the codfish. Cover and stand over hot water ten minutes. Add the 
beaten yolk of an egg adn salt, and serve with plain boiled potatoes. 



14 FISH 

SALT CODFISH WITH MACARONI 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
2 ounces macaroni 1/2 pint strained tomato 

1/2 pound boneless codfish \i tablespoon grated onion 

1 tablespoon butter I/2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour 1 saltspoon white pepper 

Break macaroni into two inch lengths. Throw them into boiling water 
and boil rapidly for thirty minutes. Drain. Blanch for fifteen minutes in 
cold water; then cut in piee&s half inch long. Wash codfish, cut into dice 
and cover with cold water. Bring just to the boiling point. Drain. Cover 
again with boiling water, and let it stand for five minutes, then drain. Rub 
together butter with flour. Add strained tomato, onion, salt and pepper. 
Stir until boiling. Add macaroni and fish. Stand over hot water five 
miutes and serve in a heated dish. 



CODFISH BALLS AND CODFISH SOUFFLE 

% pound salt cod 1 saltspoon pepper 

1 pint mashed potatoes 2 egg yolks 

1 rounding tablespoon butter bread crumbs 

Pick apart salt cod, cover with cold water, bring to boiling point and 
drain. Cover with boiling water again and let stand five minutes; drain 
and press; add hot mashed potatoes, butter, pepper and the yolk of eggs; 
mix thoroughly and form balls, dip in beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs and 
fry in deep, hot fat. Serve plain with tomato sauce. 

Persons who do not eat fried foods may change the recipe into codfish 
souffle by adding the well beaten whites of the eggs and baking the mixture 
a golden brown. 



FISH CHOWDIER 

1 pound of white fish salt 

3 medium size potatoes pepper 

1 large onion celery seed 

1 pint boiling water tomatoes 

1 pint of milk 
1 tablespoon butter 
powdered thyme 

Wash and cut in squares any white fish. Pare and cut into dice 
potatoes. Chop fine the onion. Put in the bottom of the kettle a layer 
of the potatoes, then a layer of fish, then tomatoes. Add a teaspoon of 
onion, 1/2 teaspoon thyme, a saltspoon of salt, a dash of pepper, 1/2 tea- 
spoon celery seed, and so continue until the materials are all used. Have 
the top layer potatoes. Pour over a pint of boiling water, cover the kettle 
and cook over a moderate fire, without stirring, for twenty minutes. 
Meantime heat milk in double boiler, take the chowder from the fire and 
cover the top with crushed water crackers, pour over the milk, add butter, 
cut in bits, and serve. 



THEMANILACOOKBOOK 15 



FISH 


(Hawaiian Style) 








Miss A. L. Ide. 




3 pound haddock 




1 large onion 




4 tablespoons butt€r or 


olive oil 


1 clove of garlic 




2 potatoes 




1 saltspoon ground cloves 


% can tomatoes 




1 bay leaf 




1 sweet chili pepper 




1 level teaspoon salt 








1 rounding tablespoon 


butter 



Clean, wash and dry haddock, dust it with salt and pepper. Pour 
butter, or olive oil, into a shallow baking pan. When hot drop in the fish, 
brown on both sides, then put in hot oven and cook slowly for thirty minu- 
tes, turning once. While this is cooking put potatoes that have been peeled, 
tomatoes, grated onion, clove of garlic, mashed, cloves and bay leaf in sauce 
pan; cook for five minutes, press through a sieve. Add a level teaspoon 
of salt, a dash of cayenne, sweet chili, chopped fine, and butter. Place the 
fish on heated dish, pour over this mixture, and send to the table with a 
plate of plain boiled potatoes. 



SALT MACKEREL 

Wash the fish and soak over night with the skin side up. Next morn- 
ing dry, put in wire broiler and broil, flesh side down, until a golden brown. 
Turn and broU the skin side quickly. Put on heated platter, moisten with 
butter that has been rubbed with an equal quantity of lemon juice, and 
serve. 



SALMON LOAF 

Loaf Sauce 

1 can salmon 1 cup milk 

1 egg 2 tablespoons flour 

% cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

% cup bread or cracker crumbs 
salt and pepper 
Mix well and steam one hour. Turn on platter and pour over the 
sauce made of milk, flour, and butter. 



SALMON LOAF 

Loaf Sauce 

1 can salmon liquor from salmon 
4 eggs 1 tablespoon flour 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 
1 cup bread crumbs \ egg 

salt and pepper a little salt 

Drain off the liquor for the sauce, pick out the bones, mash salmon 
fine with a spoon, add the eggs well beaten, melted butter, grated bread 
crumbs, and salt and mix well. Steam three-quarters of an hour either in 
a mould or a bag, serve with the sauce below : — 



16 r I S H 

Add to the liquor from salmon milk, flour, egg, a little salt, and boil 
tin it thickens. Sliee the loaf, pour the sauce over slices, and garnish 
■with bits of parsley and slices of lemon. 



STEAMED SALMON 

Mrs. Quinan. 

Salmon loaf Sauce 

1 can salmon oil from can salmon 

1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup water 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon catsup 

1/2 cupful cracker crumbs 1 teaspoon corn starch 
salt, pepper and parsley 

Remove bones and skin from salmon and rub butter into it. Beat up 
eggs and mis with salmon. Add cracker crumbs with salt, pepper and 
parsley. Pack in buttered mould and steam one hour. 

Sauce for above : — Cook until thick the oil drained from salmon, one- 
half cup water, the catsup and corn starch. Serve hot. 



WHITE FISH IN PIMIENTO CASES 

Rosamund Lampman. 
1/2 pound of white fish or halibut Suuce 

dash of cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon onion juice 1 tablespoon flour 

whites of 4 eggs .1 cup hot water 

pimientos 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 egg yolk 
1/2 cup shrimps 
1 saltspoon salt 
pepper 
Cook white fish, or halibut, in salted water, then drain and rub through 
a sieve. Season with a few grains of cayenne pepper and lemon juice, 
then add cream sauce. Blend thoroughly, and fold in the beaten whites 
of eggs. Butter individual moulds and line with pimientos. Fill with the 
mixture, and stand moulds in pan of hot water. Cover tops with buttered 
paper, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Unmould on a 
hot platter. Garnish with parsley and serve with shrimp sauce. 

To make the sauce : — Melt butter, add flour, and gradually hot water. 
Stir and cook until smooth. Season with salt, a dash of pepper, lemon 
juice. Then add the yolk of an egg. Reheat and stir in shrimps, mashed 
and cut into pieces. 



SHELL FISH 



CRAB WITH RED PEPPERS 

From Philippine Education. 
4 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 cup crab meat 
1% tablespoons pimientos % teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons butter or lard 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

a bit of nutmeg 
BoU the crabs and take the meat from the shells. BoU 4 eggs hard. 
Chop the -n^hites and mash the yolks. Mix with fine soft white bread 
crumbs and chopped red peppers (the canned pimientos). Melt but do 
not brown butter or lard ; stjr in the eggs, add slowly milk, and lastly cral) 
meat. Whan hot, put in salt, nutmeg, and lemon juice. Serve at once 
on toast or with rice. 



DEVILED CRABS 

6 crabs _ juice of 1 lemon 

bread crumbs butter, size of walnut 

3 hard boiled eggs salt and pepper to taste 

Pick the meat from boiled crabs and cut into fine bits. Add one-third 
as much bread crumbs, chopped eggs, the juice of one small lemon, salt and 
pepper, and butter the size of a walnut. 

Clean the shells well and fill with the mixture; place bits of butter 
over the top and brown in the oven. 

Snow potatoes made by pressing hot boiled potatoes through a potato 
strainer, are nice to serve with the above for either luncheon or dinner. 



OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Mrs. E. P. Kincaid. 
1 pint raw oysters 1 teaspoon grated horse-radish 

1 cup tomato ketchup juice of 1 lemon 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce tobasco sauce to taste 
Take oysters, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce and grated horseradish, 
the juice of a lemon and enough tobasco sauce to make very hot. Put in 
glasses and place on ice to cool. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS IN PEPPERS 

as many peppers as needed dash paprika 

oysters shredded cabbage 

1 tablespoon tomato catsup French dressing 

1 teaspoon horseradish 

1 teaspoon prepared mustard 

6 drops Worcestershire sauce 
Selected bullnosed peppers, one for each g^est, slice off stem end and 
remove all seeds and white membrane. Fill with oysters and a sauce made 
of catsup, horseradish, mustard, Worcestershire sauce, ajid a dash of 
paprika. Set each pepper in a wreath of shredded cabbage with French 
dressing. 17 



18 SHELL FISH 



DEVILED OYSTERS 

50 oysters 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint liquor and milk 2 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon celery 

salt and cayenne pepper 

Wash and drain oysters. Shake them over the fire until the giUs cur!. 
Drain, saving the liquor. Chop the oysters fine. Rub together flour and 
butter. Add enough oyster liquor and milk to make a pint. Stir until 

boiling. Add the oysters, the yolks of eggs shghtly beaten, salt, a dash 
of cayenne, and chopped celery. Turn into a baking dish, cover thickly 
with soft bread crumbs, and bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. 



FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS 

50 oysters 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pint liquor and milk cayenne pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 2 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons cream 

parsley 

Drain and wash oysters. Cook until the gills curl. Drain, saving the 
liquor. Add to it sufficient milk to make a pint. Put butter and flour 
in a saucepan. Mix. Add liquor and milk, and stir until boiling. Add 
salt, cayenne pepper and the oysters. Heat over hot water. Beat the 

yolks of eggs with cream. Stir them quickly into the oysters. Take from 
the fire, and serve on toast, or in a dish, garnished with triangular pieces 
of toast. Sprinkle finely chopped parsley over the top. 



OYSTER GUMBO 

1 chicken 1 quart chicken stock 

1 sliced onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1% pints water 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 quart young okra dash cayenne 
50 oysters 

Prepare a chicken as for fricassee. Put in baking pan. Add onion, 
half pint of water and bake until tender. Wash and cut okra into thin 
slices; put in a saucepan, add pint of water and cook slowly for half hour. 
Lift the chicken to a soup kettle. Add chicken stock or boiling water. 
Simmer gently for twenty minutes. Add salt, cayenne, paprika. Add 
okra and oysters, Cover the saucepan, cook for five minutes, and send 
to the table. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 19 



OYSTER STEW 

50 oysters salt and pepper 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons butter 

Drain, wasb and drain again, good, fat oysters. Shake over the fire 
until the gills curl. Heat milk in double boiler. Add hastily to the oys- 
ters. Take from the fire. Add salt, pepper and butter. Serve with oys- 
ter crackers. If thickening is liked, rub one tablespoon of butter and one 
of flour together and add to the milk. 



NEW ORLEANS JAMBALAY 

36 fresh shrimps thyme 

1 onion bay leaf 

1 tablespoon lard parsley 

1 cup rice pepper and salt 

Boil shrimps. When cold peel. Cut onion fine. Fry in lard. Add 
rice well washed to the onion. Let it fry brown, stirring constantly. 
Flavor with thyme, bay leaf, parsley, pepper and salt. When brown, add 
enough water to cover. Let boil until the rice is well cooked. Mix with 
the shrimps and serve. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



20 



SAUCES for FISH and MEAT 



DRAWN BUTTER 

% pound fresh butter % cup ^o^ water 

1 tablespoon flour 

Cut up butter and mix with flour. Place in saucepan and add hot water. 
Cover the pan and place in boiling water. Move pan around continually 
in the same direction, tiU butter is entirely melted and begins to simmer. 
Then let pan rest till it boils up. If set on too hot a fire, contents will be 
oily. K not well mixed, the butter and flour will be lumpy. Avoid too 
much water. 



EGG SAUCE 

2 tablespoons flour 2 hard-boiled eggs 

% eup warm water 1 piut boiling water 

Stir flour and butter together. Gradually add the boiling milk, then 
chopped eggs. Do not let sauce boU, but keep just under boUiug point. 
Pour a little over fish and serve rest separately. 



FISH SAUCE 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 
1 pint drawn butter 6 hard-boiled eggs 

1 tablespoon pepper sauce sliced lemon 

or Worcestershire sauce salt 

To drawn butter add pepper or Worcestershire sauce, a little salt and 
hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. Pour over boiled fish and garnish with 
sliced lemons. 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE FOR FISH 

% juice leman cayenne pepper 

2 egg yolks % teaspoon salt 

juice % lemon % cup boiling water 

Cream the butter and the yolks, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Place 
the bowl in a dish of hot water on the stove, and beat the mixture with an 
egg beater one minute. Add the boiling water, beating all the time. When 
of consistency of custard, it is done. 

21 



22 SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEAT 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

12 mushrooms % tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon salt 

% tablespoon chopped onion 1 cup hot water or stock 

1 tablespoon flour 

Melt the butter, and stir into it the flour and onion. Then pour in the 
hot water or stock, a little at a time. Put through a strainer and add salt 
and mushrooms. Stir and cook long enough for the mushrooms to become 
thoroughly heated, and jii.st before .serving add lemon juice. 



OYSTER SAUCE 

1 pint oyster.^ 2 tablespoons cold butter 

1 cup milk or cream cayenne and salt 

1 tablespoon flour 

Heat oysters in their own liquor until they begin to ruffle. Skim out 
the oysters into a warm dish. Add to the liquor the milk or cream, butter, 
pinch of cayenne and salt. Thicken with flour stirred to a paste. Boil up 
and add to the oysters. Served with fish, boiled turkey or white meats. 



TOMATO SAUCE 

1 quart tomatoes 1 ounce butter 

1 slice onion 1 talilespoon flour 

2 cloves 

pepper and salt 

Boil together for twenty minutes tomatoes, onions, cloves, salt and 
pepper. Strain through a sieve. Melt butter in another pan. As it melt.s. 
stir in flour until mixture browns and froths a little. Mix the tomato pulp 
with it, and it is ready for the table. Excellent for mutton chops or roast 
beef. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



23 



MEATS 



If meats, poultry, flsh or any other articles of food, when found frozen, 
are thawed by putting into warm water or placing before the fire, they wUl 
be spoiled and rendered unfit to eat. Immerse them in cold water. This 
should be done as soon as they are brought from market, so that they may 
have time to be well thawed before they are cooked. If meat that is to be 
boiled has been frozen, put in cold water. 



24 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 25 

TO MAKE TOUGH MEAT TENDER 

1 large onion 1/3 cup vinegar 

Yi pound bacon or pork 2/3 cup water 

salt pepper 

butter flour 

Place in the bottom of kettle, slices of onion and thin slices of bacon 
and pork. Pound the meat well, sprinkling it with salt and plenty of pepper. 

Lay on onions and bacon. Cover closely and cook until brown on both 
sides. Add water and vinegar. Keep closely covered and cook until tender, 
one and a half to two hours. When first placed in kettle, spread butter 
over the meat. After removing the meat, add a little water and thicken 
slightly with flour. 



ROAST BEEF 

beef flour 

salt and pepper 1 cup boiling water 

Best cuts for roasting are: — tip or middle sirloin (for small family); 
back of rump (for large family) ; or first three ribs. 

One essential point in roasting beef is to have the oven well heated when 
the meat is put in, as this prevents the escape of the juices. 

Place your rib or loin roast in a dripping pan and baste it well with 
butter or suet fat. Set in the oven. Baste frequently with its own drip- 
pings. When partly done, season with salt and pepper; then dredge with 
sifted flour to give it a frothy appearance. Remove when done. Skim the 
drippings from all fat. Add a tablespoon of sifted flour, a little pepper and 
teacupful of boiling water. Boil up once and serve hot in a gravy boat. 
Seven or eight pounds require about two hours. 



POT ROAST 

3 cups boiling water flour 

3 pounds beef rump or topside salt and pepper to taste 

1 small onion 
The beef must not be too fat. Wash and put it into a pot with barely 
sufficient water to cover it. Set over a slow fire and after it has been 
stewed an hour, salt and pepper. Then stew slowly until tender, adding 
a little onion if liked. Do not replenish the water at the last, but 
let it nearly boil away. When tender, pour the gravy into a bowl; put a 
large lump of butter in the bottom of the pot; then dredge the meat with 
flour and return it to the pot to brown, turning it often to prevent burn- 
ing. Remove the fat from the gravy and pour it in with the meat. Stir 
in a large spoonful of flour, wet with a little water. Let it boil up 10 or 15 
minutes and pour into a gravy dish. Serve hot. 



26 MEAT 



BEEF A LA MODE 

Mrs. Agatha Cook. 
4 pounds round of beef 2 bay leaves 

% pound fat salt pork ^4 teaspoon mace 

6 small fresh carrots 2 small onions 

6 peppercorns 2 tablespoons cider vinegar 

%, pound suet 
Have butcher skewer beef and tie the roll with stout twine. Make 
five or six incisions and thread them with salt pork, carrots, peppercorns, 
mace, onions and bay leaves. Pour over all two tablespoons cider vinegar. 
Cover the vessel and let stand all night in a cool place. (On top of refri- 
gerator may do, but not inside, as it will affect milk and butter.) By 
morning the seasoning will have permeated the meat. Then cook as a pot 
roast. Pour off the juice that has drawn during the night and start roast- 
ing with small piece of suet. When this is sizzling hot, put in meat with 
more suet, and after the meat has browned on both sides, add little by little 
the juice. Simmer slowly until the meat is tender and let it cool in re- 
maining juice. Hominy boiled very dry goes well with this meat, which is 
better served cold. 



BEEFSTEAK 

beef salt and pepper 

butter 
The best cuts for beefsteak are porterhouse, sirloin, and second and 
thii'd cuts from round. 

Have the frying pan very hot. Rub over the bottom with a rag dipped 
in butter. Place your steak in pan. Turn, season with salt, pepper and 
butter. 



BEEFSTEAK WITH ONIONS 

beefsteak drippings or butter 

1 dozen onions 

Have ready in a frying pan a dozen onions cut in slices and fried 
brown in a little beef drippings or butter. Dish your steak and lay the 
onions thickly over the top. 



BEEFSTEAK WITH OYSTERS 

beefsteak 3 ounces butter 

1 quart oysters 1 tablespoon sifted flour 

Put oysters with very little of the juice into stew-pan. When they 
come to a boil, remove the scum. Stir in butter mixed with flour. Let 
boil one minute until it thickens. Pour over the steak. Serve hot. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 27 

ROAST STEAK 

Mrs. Fox. 

beefsteak II/2 teaspoon salt 

1 pint boiling water 1 onion 

1 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon butter 

Put a very thick piece of steak into the baking pan in boiling water. 

Add pepper and salt, onion and butter. Roast one hour if wanted well 
done, or less time if preferred rare. 



SCALLOPED STEAK 

Mrs. G. A. Miller. 
beefsteak onions 

potatoes butter 

Alternate layers of steak chopped fine with layers of potatoes and 
onions. Season each layer and add a piece of butter. Over all pour stock 
or water. Bake. 



STUFFED STEAK 

Mrs. F. W. Van Buskirk. 
round steak 1 teaspoon butter 

2 cups dry bread % teaspoon mixed herbs 

11/2 cup boiling water 1 egg yolk 

salt and pepper 

Make stuffing by pouring over bread V2 cup boiling water; mash; add 
butter, herbs, yolk of egg; beat together; salt and pepper; put in 
steak. Put in pot to brown as for pot roast; add one cup boiling water;, 
let it simmer one and one half hours ; then roast in oven one half hour. 
Round steak not essential but preferable. 



BEEFSTEAK PIE 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 

sirloin salt and pepper 

1 onion few slices bacon 

mushrooms, or oysters, or kidneys 

Chop the flank end of the sirloin rather coarsely. t'o\-er with cold water 
and simmer until the juice is extracted, adding more water if necessary. 
Cut the tenderloin into thin slices crosswise. Rub the slices with the cut 
side of an onion, if desired, and dust with a very little pepper. Roll the 
slices and put a layer of them into a small buttered baking dish. Add some 
tiny pieces of bacon and a few mushrooms. Pour some of the broth around 
the meat. Add pepper and salt; then another layer of beef rolls and the 
rest of the broth. (Oysters may be used with this if desired.) Cover 
with crust. 



28 MEAT 

This pie can be made with kidneys in the place of mushrooms and 
bacon by preparing the kidneys as for any stew and using them with the 
beefsteak. The English always use them with their famous beefsteak pie, 
making the crust of suet, flour, salt, water and egg; and steaming for two 
hours or more. 



CRUST 

2 cups flour Vi cup butter 

% teaspoon salt % cup cream 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
Sift together flour, salt and baking powder. Chop into this the but- 
ter. Mix lightly with enough cream to make a moist dough (less than one 
half cup will be needed). Turn onto a board, and pat out to fit baking dish. 
Puncture top and bake 45 minutes. 



LIBERTY STEAK PIE 

Mrs. Ryan. 

3 eggs 
1% pounds beefsteak salt 

1 pint milk onion 

2 tablespoons flour parsley 

Chop beefsteak. Add a little salt, onion, parsley, milk, flour and eggs. 
Bake one hour in a quick oven. 



MEAT BALLS 

beef (topside or sirloin) salt 

Select a thick piece of topside or sirloin, and with a dull knife scrape 
with the grain of the meat, leaving all the stringy white fibre behind. Roll 
this pulp into balls about the size of small marbles. Have a clean, smooth 
frying pan. Sprinke a little salt in it ; shake until brown ; then lay in four 
balls at a time, and with a spoon keep them rolling and turning for just a 
minute or two. The salt gives them a delicious flavor, while they will be 
rare inside and delicately brown outside. Prepared in this way they can 
be digested by the weakest stomach. 



BEEF LOAF 

3 pounds lean beef 1 tablespoon black pepper 
1 dozen butter crackers 1 tablespoon salt 

4 eggs butter size of an egg 

Chop beef finely. Add crackers, eggs beaten, pepper, salt and butter. 
Mix thoroughly, mould into two bricks, and bake like a roast. Sliced cold 

this makes a very nice dish for tea. A. very little sage may be added, if 
desired. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 29 

KIDNEY STEW 

1 kidney chopped parsley 

1 onion salt and pepper to taste 

Wash kidney thoroly, pulling off the thin skin and removing all mem- 
brane. Cut into pieces the size of a walnut. Wash again and squeeze out 
the blood. More than cover with hot water and simmer slowly in a covered 
stew-pan two or three hours, until nearly done. Take off the scum. Add 
boiling water when necessary to keep the meat covered, and salt about fif- 
teen minutes before removing from the fire. Let the kidney cool in the 
juice and stand over night if convenient. Take kidney from juice and cut 
into small pieces the size of lima beans. Return to juice, add chopped 
onion, salt and pepper to taste, and boil slowly until thoroly done. Thicken 
with a little flour mixed with water or milk. Add chopped parsley and 
serve with rice. 



ROAST MUTTON 

four salt and pepper 

mutton butter 

Wash and dry with a clean cloth; lay in dripping pan and add a little 
water to baste it with at first; afterwards baste with its own gravy. Allow 
in roasting about 12 minutes to a pound, if fire is strong as it should be. 
When it begins to roast well, salt and pepper. Baste often; and about a 
quarter of an hour before you think it will be done, dredge with flour and 
baste with butter. Skim the gravy well and thicken very slightly with 
brown flour. Serve with currant jelly or other tart sauce. 



LAMB STEW 

3 pounds lamb (fore-quarter) 3 raw potatoes 

salt pork salt and pepper 

2 onions milk 

flour short biscuit dough 

Cut up the lamb into small pieces removing the fat. Wash it well and 
put it over the fire, with just enough cold water to cover it well, and let it 
heat gradually. It should stew gently until partly done; then add a few 
thin slices of salt pork, one or two onions sliced, salt and pepper and 
two or three raw potatoes, cut up into inch pieces. Cover it closely and 
stew until the meat is tender. Drop in a few dumplings, made like short 
biscuit, cut out very small. Cook fifteen minutes longer. Thicken the 
gravy with a little flour moistened with milk. 



30 



MEAT 



VEAL LOAF 



11/2 pounds veal 
1% pounds pork 
2 eggs 
% cup cream 



Mrs. G. A. Miller. 
3 crackers 



salt to taste 
pinch of sage 

Use less pork and more veal if preferred. Put veal and pork through 
food chopper. Add eggs, cream, cracker crumbs, little onion, salt, and 
sage. Mould into a loaf and bake. 



BREAKFAST SAUSAGE 



1 pound lean veal 
%^ pound Swift premium bacon 
14 teaspoon pepper 
1/2 teaspoon powdered sage 



Mrs. C. H. Smith. 

Cream sawie 

■1 teaspoon butter 

■1 tablespoon flour 

cream 

bacon grease 

Grind veal and bacon in a beef chopper. Add salt, pepper and sage. 
I'orm into balls and fry in bacon grease. Serve with cream sauce made by 
adding butter, flour and cream to the bacon grease. Delicious when used 
with flannel cakes for breakfast. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



31 



POULTRY 



FRIED CHICKEN 

Mrs. Ben F. Wright. 
1 chicken 1 teaspoon butter 

1 teaspoon lard salt 

flour 
Wash the chicken thoroughly before cutting. Afterwards lay in a pan 
to cool. Have a thick, iron, frying pan piping hot. Put in a spoonful 
each of lard and butter. Fry the chicken very quickly until brown, then 
add .just enough hot water to moisten and steam. Set back on the stove, 
cover very tighly and steam until tender an hour or more as required. 
Add salt just in time to let it penetrate well before serving. The top may 
be dredged with flour just before adding the water. 



FAVORITE CHICKEN STEW 

From Philippine Education. 
2 small chickens 1 cup ripe tomatoes 

1 cup rice salt and pepper 

% pound fat pork 
Cut up chickens. Cover with cold water and bring slowly to a boil. 

Drain that water off and cover well with more. When boiling, and the 
meat is getting tender, add washed rice and pork cut into small dice, and 
tomatoes pared and cut into pieces. Add salt and pepper to taste and 
boil until the rice is well done. This stew should be thick enough to dip, 
not to pour. 



ARROZ A LA VALENCIANA 

1 chicken 1 small can peas 

2 cups rice 1 small can pimiento 
1 cup stewed tomatoes 3 hard-boiled eggs 

1 large onion 6 tablespoons lard 

a few cloves of garlic if liked 
salt and pepper to taste 
Sort, wash and soak the rice in water for one hour. Dress and joint 
chicken with salt and pepper and fry until light brown. Remove the 
chicken from frying pan, saute minced onion and bruised garlic until 
clear and tender. Add the tomato, fried chicken and just enough boiling 
water to moisten and steam the rice. Add the rice, and chopped pimiento 
ajid cook slowly until the rice is done. Watch closely to prevent burning. 
Add peas ten minutes before dishing. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Serve the mixture on a hot platter, garnished with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs. 
32 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 33 

BONED CHICKEN 

1 chicken 14 teaspoon black pepper 

% kilo fresh pork 1 teaspoon sage, crushed and sifted 

% kilo beef or chicken meat % cup bread crumbs 

1% teaspoons salt stock or milk 

Select a young chicken. Use a board and sharp pointed knife. Singe 
and remove the pin feathers, head, tendons and feet. Loosen the skin 
around the end of the leg bone. Lay the chicken on the board, breast 
side down. Cut the skin on the middle of the back half way down from 
the neck. 

Find the backbone. With the back of the knife or the fingers, scrape 
the meat from the backbone down to the free eaid of the shoulder blade. 
Free the shoulder blade from flesh. Keep pushing the flesh away until 
you reach the joint connecting the wings and body. Remove the tip of 
the wing at the joint. Push the meat away from the bone in the wing, 
being careful not to tear the skin. Repeat this process with the other 
wing and shoulder blade. Push the flesh away from the collar bone down 
to the breastbone. Be careful not to tear the skin on the breastbone. 

Separate the crop from the flesh- Scrape the flesh off the ribs. Be 
careful not to puncture the membrane lining the body cavity. Push the 
flesh away from the bone in the second joint, then from leg. PuJl it off 
just as a glove finger when it fits tightly. Do this with the other leg. 
Free the skin from the backbone. Lift the skeleton away from the meat. 

To make the forcemeat grind the meat, mix the seasoning with the bread 
crumbs, mix all the ingredients and moisten them with stock or milk. 

Wipe the fowl inside and out and turn the legs and wings so that 
the skin side is out. Fill the wings and legs with forcemeat. Pill very 
full because forcemeat does not expand in cooking. 

Sew up the slit in the skin from the neck down. Then fill the body 
full of forcemeat. Truss and skewer the wings and legs in shape just 
as in preparing a fowl for roasting. Fasten strips of pork over the legs. 

Roast as any fowl. Allow two and a half to three hours, according 
to size of fowl. A long time is required if pork is used in the filling. 
Cook all the bones for stock. 

Serve the fowl with giblet gravy. To carve, remove the wings and 

legs anr! then slice the fowl straight across. It may be served cold or 

hot. 

GIBLET GRAVY 

Place giblets and neck in a small stewpan, cover with cold water and 
bring to boiling point. Let cook until tender. Remove from stewpan, 
and chop. Save water in which they were cooked. 

Pour off the liquid in paai in which chicken was roasted. Skim off 
three tablespoons of fat from this liquid, add three tablespoons flour, and 
cook until brown. Add a cup of the broth in which giblets were cooked. 
Cook five minutes, season with salt and pepper to taste. 



34 POULTRY 



ROAST TURKEY 

turkey salt and pepper 

stuffing lard or butter 

Stuff the breast first, but not too full, or it will burst in cooking. 
The body should be stuffed rather fuller than the breast. Sew the open- 
ings with strong thread. Rub thoroughly with salt and pepper, then 
lard it or butter it over the breast. Place in a hot oven at first, then 
graduate to a moderate heat until the turkey is done, allowing about 
twenty minutes for each pound and twenty minutes additional. Boil the 
giblets until tender in a separate vessel. Chop fine and add to gravy. 



PLAIN STUFFING 

bread melted butter 

1 egg onions 

Use bread at least a day old. Crumble fine, mixing in one egg and 
enough melted butter to have it crumble and be moist in the hands. Sea- 
son highly with salt and pepper. 

or Additional flavoring of powdered sage or chopped raw liver, onion and 
a little thyme is delicious. 

or Mushrooms and oysters, chopped fine and added to the dressing, are 
good. 

or A seasoning of chopped celery, apples, raisins and parsley may be 
substituted. 



CHESTNUT STUFFING 

2 quarts large roasted chestnuts salt and pepper 

1 ounce butter 1 teaspoon olive oil 

Mash chestnuts, add melted butter, pepper and salt, and, if desired, 
one teaspoon olive oil. 

or 

1 pint chestnuts 1 pint sausage meat 

1 teaspoon powdered sage 



ROAST DUCK 

1 duck butter 

flour 

Pick, draw, clean thoroughly, and wipe dry. Cut the neck close to 
the back; beat the breastbone flat with a rolling pin; tie the wings and 
legs securely and stuff. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 35 

STUFFING 

3 pints bread crumbs 2 onions, chopped 

6 ounces butter or 1 teaspoon sage 

part butter and part 1 teaspoon black pepper 

salt pork 1 teaspoon salt 

Do not stuff very full; sew up the openings firmly to keep the flavor 
in and the fat out. Place in a baking pan with a little water; baste fre- 
quently with salt and water; turn often that it may be nicely browned. 
When nearly done baste with butter and a little flour. Young ducks take 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes ; full grown, an hour or more. Serve 
with jelly or tart sauce. 



ROAST GOOSE OR ROAST DUCK WITH CHESTNUT 

STUFFING 

goose 1 teaspoon butter 

1 onion 1 tablespoon currant jelly 

1 orange 
Select a young plump or duck; mince the giblets with a spoonful of 
fresh butter and a small onion. 

Add to gravy a tablespoon of currant jelly and juice of an orange. 

STUFFING 

1 pint large Spanish chestnuts fresh butter 

2 teaspoons milk salt and pepper 

Boil chestnuts; peel and mash with fresh butter, pepper and salt and 
milk. Stuff the goose with this. 



TURKEY AND OYSTER PIE 

Elimbeth W. Morrison. 
biscuit crust turkey 

brown sauce onions 

oysters turkey dressing 

gi'een parsley and sliced lemons 

For the day after Christmas this will be found a delicious substitute 
for the usual cold turkey. Use only the roughest pieces, reserving ths 
best for luncheon some other day. 

Make a rich biscuit crust; roll out one-quarter inch thick and line an 
earthen dish. Have ready a thick brown sauce seasoned well. Put a layer of 
parboiled onions cut very thin, turkey dressing, if there is any left, and 
sauce. Cover with dough and bake. When done slip spatula under pie, 
slide onto a hot dish, garnish with green parsley and sliced lemons. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



VEGETABLES 



BAMBOO SHOOTS 

Select a fresh crisp shoot; cut into thin slices, then into small pieces. 
Soak in cold water four hours, changing the water twice. Put into cold 
water and allow it to come to a boil. Pour off the water and boil for 
ten minutes. Change the water again and boil until tender. Unless the 
water is changed many times, the bamboo is bitter. 



SAUCE FOR BAMBOO 

.1 cup hot milk salt and pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup water in which bamboo 

% tablespoon flour was boiled 

Boil until thick, milk, butter, flour, salt and pepper, and one cup of 

water in which the bamboo was boiled. Beat until smooth, then pour 

over the bamboo and serve hot. 



BAMBOO GULAY (greens) 

Eduviges Medina. 

Take bamboo sprouts from a few inches to a foot high and remove 
the outside. Take the inside and scrape very fine or cut into very thin 
slices. Put into boiling water or eocoamit milk and boil thirty or forty 
minutes. If liked, bacon or any dry meat can be boiled with it, or it can 
be served with butter, salt and pepper. 



FRIED BANANAS 

Juan Cabrera. 

3 bananas 4 tablespoons milk 

% cup flour salt 

Use the banana called "Saba" for frying. For four persons use 
three bananas. Cut in slices the long way. Dip in a batter made of 
flour, milk and a little salt. Fry in hot fat. Pour over the fried bananas 
a syrup made of sugar and water. 



BAKED BANANAS 

6 bananas 3 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon lime or lemon juice 

Peel and cut bananas into halves lengthwise. Place slices in a shallow 
granite pan. Melt the butter and stir in sugar and lime or lemon juice. 
Pour one-half of this mixture over the bananas. Place the pan in a slow 
oven and bake twenty minutes. While baking, baste the bananas occa- 
sionally with the remainder of the syrup mixture. 

37 



38 VEGETABLES 



BEAN AND POTATO PUFF 

1% cups bean pulp 1/2 cup bread crumbs 

1 cup mashed potato 1 beaten egg 

salt and pepper to taste % small onion 

Blend all the ingredients, season with pepper and salt and drop by 
spoonfuls on a greased tin. Bake in a moderately quick oven until puffy 
and brown. Turn on a platter and garnish with parsley. 



LIMA AND KIDNEY BEANS 

Put in boiling water, a little more than enough to cover them, and boil 
until tender, from half an hour to two hours. Serve with butter. 



BAKED KIDNEY BEANS 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 

'/a kilo kidney beans 2/l0 kilo fat salt pork 

Yz cup molasses 1 small onion 

Wash thoroughly kidney or red beans. Soak over night. Drain and 
cover with boUing water and boil thirty minutes. Drain and season to 
taste with salt, molasses, and one small onion if desired. Add fat salt 
pork, and enough boiling water to come to top of beans but not to cover. 
Place in tireless with two very hot disks and bake from four to six hours. 



BOILED BEETS 

Wash carefully. Do not cut or pierce. Put in boihng water, and 
boil until tender, from one to two hours. When done, put into cold water 
and slip off the outside skin. Cut into thin slices and while hot, serve 
with butter, salt, pepper and vevy sharp vinegar. 



BOILED CABBAGE 

cabbage salt 

Clean the cabbage thoroughly. The large drum head cabbage requires 
an hour to boil ; the green savory cabbage will boil in about thirty minutes. 
Add considerable salt to the water when boiling. Do not let cabbage boil 
too long or it will become watery. When done, drain and serve. Boil 
with bacon if liked. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 39 

LADIES' CABBAGE 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 

1 firm white cabbage 3 tablespoons rich milk or cream 

2 eggs salt and pepper to taste 
1 tablespoon butter 

Boil cabbage fifteen minutes, changing the water from the boiling tea- 
kettle. When tender set aside to cool. When cold, chop fine and add 
two beaten eggs, butter, pepper and salt, and rich mUk or cream. Stir 
all well together, and bake in buttered pudding dish until brown. Serve 
very hot. This dish resembles cauliflower and is very digestible and palat- 
able. 



SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

cream sauce bread blocks 

cabbage butter 

Chop any bits of cabbage that are not used, or use left-over stewed 
cabbage. Make a cream sauce and mix with the cabbage. Put a layer 
of bread blocks in the bottom of a baking dish, then a layer of cream 
cabbage. Repeat, having the top layer bread. Place bits of butter over 
the top and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. No odor. 



CABBAGE PUDDING 

Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 
1 cabbage 2 eggs 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon butter 

salt and pepper to taste 

Boil the cabbage until tender and chop fine. Place in a baking pan 
with milk, eggs and butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix well and 
bake one-half hour. 



CABBAGE WITH TOMATOES 

Maria Magno Alvarez. 
1 cabbage 2 small onions 

3 tomatoes bit of garlic 

Let a cabbage boil until tender, then cut into small pieces. Pry to- 
gether until cooked, two or three sliced tomatoes, two smaU onions sliced 
and a bit of garlic. Add salt. When cooked tender, spread over the 
cabbage and serve. 



40 VEGETABLES 



STEWED CARROTS 

carrots 2 tablespoons butter 

salt and pepper flour 

milk 

Wash and scrape the carrots and divide them into strips. Place in 
water enough to cover them. Add a spoon of salt. Boil slowly until 
tender. Drain and replace in pan, with two tablespoons of butter rolled 
in flour, salt and pepper. Add enough milk to moisten the whole, let it 
come to a boil and serve hot. 



BOILED GREEN CORN 

Prepare the corn and put into boiling water. If not entirely fresh, 
add a tablespoon sugar to the water, but no salt. Boil fast about twenty 
minutes and serve. 



CORN PUDDING 

Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 

1 pint corn 1 tablespoon butter 

2 eggs salt and pepper to taste 
1% cups milk 

Mix well together corn, well beaten eggs, milk and butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Bake one-half hour. 



SCALLOPED CORN 

1 can corn 1 pint Tnillr 

cracker crumbs butter 

salt and pepper to taste 
Cover the bottom of buttered baking dish with crackers rolled fine. 
Add layer of com with bits of butter, salt and pepper. Alternate layers of 
cracker crumbs and com until material is> used up. Let the last layer be 
cracker crumbs with plenty of butter. Pour over it one pint of milk and 
bake one hour. 



CORN CAKES 

1 cup corn 1/2 cup flour 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

pinch of salt 1 teaspoon butter 

Mix well com, milk, flour, egg, salt and butter into thick batter and 
fry in small cakes in very hot butter or substitute. Serve with plenty 
of butter and powdered sugar, if so desired. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 41 

CREAMED CUCUMBER 

Mrs. Marvin Bader. 



Use large cucumbers. Remove seeds. Cut ipto small pieces. Boil 
in water until tender, then serve with a cream dressing. 



BAKED EGGPLANT 

1 large eggplant % cup cooked rice 

1 cup bread crumbs 1 beaten egg 

3 large ripe tomatoes salt and pepper to taste 

Pare the eggplant, cut into slices and steam until soft. Scald and 
peel tomatoes, press them through a sieve. Mix all the ingredients to- 
gether, season and bake in a well greased dish. 



FRIED EGGPLANT 

eggplant 1 egg 

cracker or bread crumbs butter 

Take fresh, purple eggplant; cut into slices a quarter of an inch 
thick and soak for half an hour in cold salt water. Dry; dip in cracker 
or bread crumbs; then in beaten egg, more crumbs, and fry to a light 
brown. Do not remove from the water until ready to cook. 



STUFFED EGGPLANT 

Maria Magna Alvarez. 
1 eggplant 2 tablespoons grated crumbs 

minced ham 1 tablespoon butter 

% minced oinion 
salt and pepper to taste 
Out eggplant in two; scrape out all the inside and put it in a 
saucepan with a little minced ham; cover with water and boil until soft; 
drain; add crumbs, butter, onion, salt and pepper; stuff each half of the 
hull ; add a small lump of butter to each and bake fifteen minutes. Minced 
veal or chicken is equally as good as ham, and many prefer it. 



STUFFED EGGPLANT 

1 eggplant % cup nuts 

% cujp bread crumbs % teaspoon salt 

% small onion pinch of parsley 

Put the whole egg-plant into boiling water; boil twenty minutes or 
until tender. Cut in two and scoop out the center, leaving a wall one-half 
inch thick. Chop the center, mixing it with bread crumbs, nuts, salt, 
parsley and a little onion. Stuff the eggplant and bake in a moderate 
oven for about an hour, basting a few times with butter. 



42 VEGETABLES 



GREENS (all kinds) 

Clean carefully through several washings of salt water. Allow to 
stand in salt water a half hour or so. Put in boiling water with a hand- 
ful of salt ; boil until the stalks are tender. Long continued boiling wastes 
the substance, therefore cut away any tough stalks. When tender, drain, 
chop them a little, and return to the fire lo,ng enough to season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Vinegar may be added if it is liked. Serve while hot. 



THE LANCA (bread fruit) 

A Filipino Friend. 

Take the fleshy covering from the lanca seeds and boil forty or fifty 
minutes. Put on in boiling water. Season with salt and butter before 
serving. This is a good substitute for cabbage and tastes much like it 
if eaten with a little vinegar. 



LANCA SEEDS 

A Filipino Friend. 

The seeds of the lanca are rich and palatable, either cooked alone as 
a vegetable or used in a dressing for fowl the same as chestnuts. They 
improve a vegetable salad when chopped and mixed in well. 



MACARONI A L'lTALIENNE 

macaroni soup stock 

cheese 

Divide the macaroni into four-inch pieces. Simmer fifteen minutes 
in plenty of boiling water, salted. Drain. Put the macaroni a sauce- 
pan and turn over it a strong soup stock, enough to prevent it burning. 
Strew over it some grated cheese; when the cheese is melted, dish. Put 
alternate layers of macaroni and cheese; then turn over it the soup stock 
and bake half an hour. 



MACARONI AND TOMATO SAUCE 

Pi-epare as above; drain; arrange neatly on a hot dish, pour tomato 
sa\ice over it and serve while hot. See "Sauces" for the tomato sauce. 



BOILED OKRA 

Put young tender pods in salted boiling water in granite, porcelain 
or tin-lined pan (iron will discolor it). Boil fifteen minutes; remove stems 
and serve with butter, pepper, salt and vinegar if preferred. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 43 

BOILED ONIONS 

onions salt 

butter 

Peel off the outside ; cut off the ends ; put into cold water and let 
them scald two minutes. Pour off water; add cold water with a little 
salt; boil slowly until tender, thirty or forty minutes. When done drain 
quite dry ; pour a little melted butter over them and season to taste. 



STEWED ONIONS 

onions salt and pepper to taste 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon flour 

butter size of an egg 

Cook as boiled onions ; drain. Add milk, butter, pepper and salt, flour 
stirred to a cream. Let all boil up at once. Serve. 



SCALLOPED ONIONS 

8 or 10 good sized onions milk or cream 

bread crumbs butter 

salt and pepper 

Take onions, slice and boil until tender. Cover bottom of buttered 
baking dish with onions. Add layer of bread crumbs with bits of butter, 
pepper and salt. Add more onions and more bread crumbs until dish is 
almost full. Add milk and cream until full. Bake twenty minutes or half 
an hour. 



FRIED ONIONS 

onions salt and pepper 

butter or lard 

Peel, slice and fry onions brown in equal quantities of butter, lard, or 
nice drippings ; cover until partly soft ; remove the cover and brown them ; 
salt and pepper. 



CREAMED GREEN ONIONS 

Mrs. Marvin Eader. 
Cut tops and all into small pieces. Boil until tender; make a rather 
thick cream dressing. Serve on toast. 



44 VEGETABLES 



SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Mrs. Ben F. Wright. 
raw potatoes salt and pepper 

hot mOk flour 

1 onion 

Peel and slice raw potatoes thin. Butter a deep dish ; put in a layer 
of potatoes; season with salt, pepper and butter, also onion if liked; 
sprinkle in a little flour, another layer of potato and seasoning, and so 
proceed until the dish is filled. Pour over enough hot milk to cover; put 
into oven and bake until tender, about three-fourths of an hour. 



OLD FASHIONED POTATO PUDDING 

Mrs. W. A. Kineaid. 
4 medium sweet potatoes l/3 cup butter 

1 pint rich milk. pinch of salt 

3 eggs cinnamon, cloves, or nutmeg 

Grate potatoes on a coarse grater. Add milk, eggs well beaten, but- 
ter and salt; flavor with cinnamon, cloves or nutmeg. Put into a hot 
buttered baking dish and cook until done. 



BROWNED POTATOES WITH ROAST 

potatoes 1 onion 

salt and pepper flour 

Peel, cook and mash the required amount; adding while hot, salt, 
pepper and a very little chopped onion. Form into small balls; dredge 
with flour; place around roast and bake about twenty minutes before 
serving. 



STUFFED POTATOES 

4 large potatoes salt and pepper 

1 pint chopped meat 1 tablespoon grated parsley 

1 tablespoon grated onion i/2 cup stock 

Wash potatoes and cut them in halves crosswise; with a scoop 
take out the centers leaving a wall at least half an inch thick. Bake 
these shells in a hot oven twenty minutes. Chop sufficient meat to make 
a pint; add salt, pepper, onion, parsley; add sufficient stock to make 
the mixture moist (about % cup). Remove the potatoes from the oven; 
fill with this mixture, rounding it up. Dust with bread crumb^and bake 
until brown. A luncheon or supper dish. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 45 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
1 pint mashed potatoes salt and pepper 

4 tablespoons milk or cream granting of nutmeg 

1 teaspoon onion juice 2 eggs 

bread crumbs 

Put cold mashed potatoes in a saucepan; add mjik or cream, 
salt, pepper, onion juice and nutmeg; stir and beat untU smooth and hot. 
Take from the fire ; add yolks of two eggs ajid form into cyhnder-shapped 
croquettes. Beat the white of one egg and to it add a tablespoon 
water; roll the croquettes in this, then in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. 



POTATO PANCAKES 

Mrs. Agatha Cook. 
4 or 5 large potatoes 1 egg 

1 small grated onion salt to taste 

Wash, peel and grate four or five large potatoes with a small grated 
onion, one beaten egg and salt to taste. Stir well. Fry in thin pan- 
cakes in lard, covered up, as this will make them nice and crisp and 
prevents the fat from being all over the stove. Always stir the batter 
again before taking out for the next panful. 



POTATO PUFF 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
1 pint mashed potatoes 2 egg whites 

% cup milk 

Put cold mashed potatoes in a saucepan; add milk; stir and beat 
until the potatoes are hot and smooth. Take from fire; fold in the well- 
beaten whites of two eggs ; heap in a baking dish and brown quickly in a 
hot oven. Serve with roast or broiled beef. 



CREAMED/ OR HASHED POTATOES 

Mrs. Agatha Cook. 

potatoes milt 

salt and pepper 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather fine; season with salt and pepper; 
put them in a baking dish; pour over sufficient good milk to just cover 
and put in a quick oven until nicely browned. 



46 VEGETABLES 



HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Mrs. J. J. Peterson. 

% pint boiled potatoes salt and pepper 

3 tablespoons cream 1 tablespoon butter 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather fine; to each half pint add three 
tablespoons cream, salt and pepper; mix; put a tablespoon butter into 
a shallow frying pan, and put in the potatoes ; flatten them in a perfectly 
smooth layer; cook slowly until a golden brown; fold one half over the 
other and turn out on a heated dish. 



POTATOES AU GRATIN 

cold boiled potatoes cream sauce 

salt and pepper cheese 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather fine; season with salt and pepper; 
put them in a baking dish; pour over sufficient cream sauce to just cover; 
dust the top with grated plain or Parmesan cheese, and put in a hot 
oven until nicely browned. 



LYONNAISE POTATOES 

potatoes butter 

1 onion salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon minced parsley 

Dice potatoes. Heat butter in a frying pan : fry in it one small onion 
until it begins to change color ; put in the potatoes ; sprinkle well with salt 
and pepper; stir and cook about five minutes, taking care not to break 
them. They must not brown. Just before taking up, stir in a tablespoon 
minced parsley. Drain dry by shaking in a colander. Serve very hot. 



RUSSIAN FRIED POTATOES 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 

Pare potatoes, and keep on paring in curls. Fry these curls. Very 
pretty if nicely done. It is necessary to have fat very hot and plenty of it. 



POTATO STRAWS 

Mrs. H. E. Stafford. 

Cut potatoes in slices, then lengthwise to thickness of straws ; put 
into co'd water for an hour; wipe dry in a towel. Fry in hot fat. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 47 

SARATOGA CHIPS 

Slice potatoes as evenly as possible; drop into ice water; have a 
kettle of hot lard; put a few at a time into a towel, shake dry and then 
drop into the holing lard. Stir occasionally and when a light brown 
remove with a skimmer and they will be crisp, not greasy. Sprinkle salt 
over them while hot. 



BAKED SWEET POTATOES 

Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 
3 sweet potatoes 1/2 cup boiling water 

sugar butter 

Have boiled three large sweet potatoes with their jackets on; when 
done, remove the skins and slice into a baking dish. Sprinkle sugar and 
small pieces of butter over the potatoes and pour over all one half cup 
boiling water. Bake a light brown. 



FRIED SWEET POTATOES 

Maria Magna Alvarez. 
potatoes 1 coconut 

Slice the sweet potatoes one fourth of an inch thick. Then fry with 
coconut oil, or other fat, until brown. Pour over them a thick syrup 
and serve. 

To make the coconut oil, grate a coconut and put it in a frying 
pan. Let it remain until it curdles, and the curds brown. Separate the 
curds from the oil. 



BAKED CAMOTES 

Boil until soft ; mash with a fork ; then beat until light and creamy. 
Add a little hot milk in which a small piece of butter has been melted, salt 
and pepper; turn lightly into a dish and brown in the oven. 



TO BOIL RICE 

1 cup rice salt 

Pick over the rice carefully; wash it in warm water, rubbing it be- 
tween the hands and rinse in several waters; then let it remain in cold 
water until ready to be cooked. Have saucepan of water, slightly salted; 
when boiling hard, sprinkle rice into water by degrees to keep particles 
separated. Boil steadily for twenty minutes ; take from fire ; drain. Place 
the pan, with lid off, on the back of the stove, where it is only moderately 
warm, to allow the rice to dry. Each grain will be separate. 



48 VEGETABLES 



BAKED RICE 



Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 



2 cups cooked rice 2 

% cup cheese 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint milk i/2 tablespoon salt 

Mix well rice, cheese in small bits, milk, eggs, butter and salt. Place 
in baking dish with cheese and a little butter on top. Bake half an hour. 



SPINACH 



To retain its fresh appearance do not cover while cooking. Pick over 
carefully, and wash through several waters; drain and put into boiling 
water. Fifteen to twenty minutes are generally enough to boil spinach. 
Be careful to remove the scum. When quite tender, drain and squeeze 
well; chop fine and put into pan with a piece of butter, salt and pepper. 
Stew five minutes, stirring all the time until quite dry. Turn into dish, 
shape into a mould and serve with hard-boiled eggs over the top. 



LUNCH EGGS WITH SPINACH 

6 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 cups of cold spinach 4 tablespoons grated cheese 

pepper, salt and butter bread crumbs 

Boil eggs verj' hard; cool and cut lengthwise. Heat spinach in a 
few tablespoons of hot water, and rub thru a colander; mix with pepper, 
salt and butter; put in bottom of baking dish. Lay the halves of egg 
about on the spinach and pour over them a sauce made from the milk 
thickened and seasoned with salt, pepper and cheese. Cover with bread 
crumbs and set in oven. Serve when slightly brown. 



BOILED SQUASH 

Pare squash; take out the seeds; cut it in pieces and stew slowly 
from twenty to forty minutes until quite soft, in a very little water. 
Drain, squeeze and press well. Season, when mashed, with salt, pepper 
and a very little butter. 



BAKED SQUASH 

Cut open the squash; take out the seeds and without paring cut into 
large pieces. Place in a moderately hot oven and bake about an hour. 
When done, serve the pieces hot, to be eaten with butter like sweet pota- 
toes. Squash retains its sweetness this way better than when boiled. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 49 

TOMATOES— FRENCH FASHION 

6 small solid tomatoes % pint milk 

1 rounding tablespoon butter salt and pepper to taste 

1 tablespoon flour bread crumbs 

Scald and peel small solid tomatoes. To each six, allow cream sauce 
made by rubbing togetber butter and flour. Add milk, stir imtil boiling, 
season with salt and pepper. Put a tablespoon of sauce in the bottom 
of a custard cup ; put in a tomato and cover with another tablespoon sauce ; 
dust top with bread crumbs ; stand the cups in a pan of boiling water and 
bake in moderate oven for half an hour. Serve in the cups. 



SHIRRED EGGS IN TOMATOES 

6 eggs 6 tablespoon cream sauce 

6 small solid tomatoes 6 slices toast 

Peel small solid tomatoes and scoop out centers. Break an egg into 
each tomato; stand them in a baking dish, and bake slowly ten or fifteen 
minutes until the eggs are set. Add a tablespoon of cream sauce to each 
and serve on slices of toast. 



TOMATO OMELET 

4 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 

Yz cup chopped tomato dash of cayenne pepper 

salt to taste 

Beat eggs without separating until well mixed. Add tomato, salt 
and cayenne. Put butter into omelet pan; when hot add egg mixture; 
shake until set ; fold and turn the omelet out on a platter. 



STUFFED TOMATOES 

Mrs. George Meyer. 

tomatoes 1 level teaspoon salt 

1 pint bread crumbs pepper to taste 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 tablespoons melted butter 
1 tablespoon grated onion 

Cut off a slice from the stem end of the tomatoes; scoop out seeds 
and a portion of hard centers. Mix bread crumbs, parsley, onion, salt, 
pepper and butter; stuff into tomatoes, heaping slightly. Stand them 
in a baking pan ; add half a cupful of water and bake in a slow oven for 
three quarters of an hour, basting once or twice with a little melted butter. 



50 VEGETABLES 



STUFFED TOMATOES 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 

4 large solid tomatoes 1 teaspoon onion juice 

% cup rice bread crumbs 

1/2 pint pecan nuts 

Cut tomatoes into halves. Scoop out the centers and seeds. Boil 
rice twenty minutes; drain and add nuts, salt and onion juice. Mix and 
stuff into tomatoes. Dust the tops with bread crumbs and bake very 
slowly for an hour. Do not allow them to cook to pieces. Serve with 
brown sauce made in the pan. 



BOILED TOMATOES 

small solid tomatoes butter and salt to taste 

Select small solid tomatoes; throw into a pan of boiling water; boil 
five minutes and serve. To eat, open, add butter and salt and dip out 
with a spoon. Boiled tomatoes are nice with toast for breakfast. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



51 



SALADS 

MAYONNAISE DfRESSING 

Mrs. G. A. Miller. 
Yolks of two eggs; beat constantly; add olive oil drop by drop, until 
enough to stand alone. As the mixture becomes thick drop in slowly a little 
vinegar or lemon juice; thicken again with oil. So proceed until the re- 
quired amount of dressing is obtained. Season to taste with salt, black 
and cayenne pepper and mustard. 



FRENCH DRESSING 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
% teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons olive oil 

1 saltspoon pepper 1 tablespoon vinegar or 

lemon juice 

Put salt and pepper in bowl, add slowly the oil, stirring all the time. 
When salt is dissolved add vinegar. When well mixed, serve. 



ITALIAN DRESSING 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 
% teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons olive oil 

1 tablespoon tomato catsup 1 clove of garlic 

dash of cayenne 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Put salt, cayenne and catsup in a bowl; gradually add the oil, mixing 
aU the time. Add garlic that has been mashed to pulp and vinegar. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon flour 21/2 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon water 1 tablespoon sugar 

3 tablespoons cream dash celery salt 

Rub together butter, flour, salt, mustard and sugar; add the egg and 

mix well; add vinegar and water, cook over slow fire, stirring all the time 

until thick. When almost cool add cream. 



SALAD DRESSING 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon mixed mustard 

3 teaspoons oil 2 teaspoons powdered sugar 

% teaspoon salt 3 teaspoons cream 

Boil eggs until hard; pound yolks to a smooth paste; add oil little by 
little, and all other ingredients, stirring until all are thoroughly incorporated. 
52 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 53 

MUSTARD DRESSING 

Mrs. Quinan. 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons sugar 4 tablespoons vinegar 
2 teaspoons mustard 

Take yolks of eggs, salt, sugar, mustard, pepper and butter, mix 
thoroughly and stir in slowly the vinegar. Cook in double boiler, stirring 
occasionally until thickness of cream. 



BANANA SALAD 

bananas chopped nuts 

peas chopped parsley 

mayonnaise 
Peel large bananas; scoop out centers, making them boat shaped, and 
fill with the following mixture : 

Small peas, chopped nuts, chopped parsley and the banana which was 
taken from the center. Mix with stiff mayonnaise. Place half kernels of 
walnuts and sprigs of parsley on top. 



BANANA AND PEANUT SALAD 

4 bananas salted peanoits 

1 egg 

Peel bananas. Dip in white of egg and roll in chopped salted nuts. 
Serve on lettuce. 



CHERRY SALAD 

Gertha Lockard. 

maraschino cherries english walnuts 

Mil maraschino cherries with English walnuts, sprinkle nuts around 
cherries and pour dressing over all — 
Dressing : — 

2 egg yolks 1 cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon dry mustard 1 pint cream 

1 teaspoon butter salt, red and black 

pepper to taste 
Beat yolks of eggs, butter, mustard, salt, red and black pepper toge- 
ther. Add vinegar and cook until thick. When cold add the cream, beat- 
ing it in well. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



54 SALADS 



CHERRY SALAD 

1 can cherries hazelnuts 

Take large cherries, stone and put hazelnuts in place of stones. Serve 
on lettuce with any kind of dressing. 



LANZONE SALAD 

Mrs. Quinan. 
lanzones mayonnaise 

Carefully peel lanzones and divide into sections, removing all the inner 
skin. Chill and dress with mayonnaise made with lemon instead of vinegar. 
Serve in orange shells. If the oil is objectionable butter may be used with 
the other ingredients. 



PAPAYA COCKTAIL 

(for four people) 
Papaya cut in small pieces, juice of one large lemon, two tablespoon- 
fuls of Heinz tomato catsup, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 
Serve with cracked ice. 



GREEN PAPAYA SALAD 

Mrs. M. A. Rader. 
2 small green papayas 3 tablespoons chopped walnuts 

1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons grated cheese 

dash of pepper 

Peel papayas, cut into cross sections, remove seeds, and boil until tender. 
Shave enough fine to mix with nuts and cheese. Place in center of papaya, 
decorate with pimiento, and serve with mayonnaise. 



PINEAPPLE SALAD 

1 pineapple % cup mayonnaise 

1 apple 18 green grapes 

cream cheese 
Cut out inside of pineapple in small pieces, being careful not to break 
the shell, cut apple into small pieces. Mix grapes, apple and pineapple 
with mayonnaise and replace in pineapple shell. 

Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with cream cheese balls size of 
marbles. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 55 

PRUNE SALAD 

prunes walnuts mayonnaise 

An excellent salad may be made by stewing prunes until they are soft, 
without any sugar. Cut carefully on the side and remove the pit. Place 
a piece of English walnut inside and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 



CHEESE SALAD 

cheese sliced lemon 

lettuce mayonnaise dressing 

Arrange crisp, tender lettuce for individual serving; sprinkle freely 
with grated cheese; dress with mayonnaise and garnish with sliced lemons. 



NUT SALAD 

1 lb. English walnuts mayonnaise 

celery 

Crack nuts, blanch and set aside to cool. Chop and mix with celery 

cut into small pieces. Serve on lettuce. Dress with mayonnaise. 



NUT SALAD 

1 cup apples 1 cup walnuts 

1 cup celery mayonnaise 

Cut apples, celery and nuts in small pieces. Blend lightly with mayon- 
naise. Take hollowed out shells of perfect red apples and fill with mixture. 
Place a teaspoon of mayonnaise on top of each and serve with a border of 
crisp, bleached celery tops. 



BAMBOO SALAD 

Eduviges Medina. 

bamboo sprouts 3 potatoes, cooked 

1 onion mayonnaise 

Scrape the inside of bamboo sprouts very fine. Put in boiling water 
and cook half an hour. When it is done remove and drain. Have ready 
three or four potatoes sliced or diced and some minced onion. Mix all to- 
gether and add mayonnaise, if desired, or other salad dressing. 



56 SALADS 



BOLIVIA SALAD 

2 cups potatoes 2 tablespoons red peppers 

4 eggs 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Boil potatoes ; when cold cut in cubes ; add bard boil eggs chopped fine, 
chopped peppers and salt, and mix all together. Serve with any dressing. 



CABBAGE SALAD 

Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 

1 head cabbage % cup vinegar 

2 eggs ^/2 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon mustard 2 tomatoes 

salt and pepper 

Take a firm head of cabbage, cut fine, add hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine, vinegar, sugar, mustard, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix well. 
Garnish with sliced tomatoes. 



COLD SLAW DRESSING 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon butter pepper 

Beat up eggs with sugar, add butter, mustard, pepper, and lastly 
vinegar. Cook like a soft custard. 

Some like to add a cup of cream; in that case use less vinegar and 
add cream when dressing is cold. 



HOT SLAW 

% head cabbage 1 tablespoon butter 

% cup vinegar 

Cut cabbage fine, cook in salt water slowly one hour. Drain off water. 
Let simmer in one cup of vinegar and water fifteen minutes, add butter 
and seasoning to taste, and serve. 



MONGO BEAN SPROUT 

1 quart niongo bean sprout french dressing 

1 onion 

Cook mongo bean sprout in salt water only a few minutes, pour off 
water and set to cool. When ready to serve, slice onion over top and serve 
with French dressing. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 57 

PERFECTION SALAD 

Knox Gelatine Co. 
1 envelope Knox gelatine 1 cup finely shredded cabbage 

1/2 cup cold water juice 1 lemon 

% cup mild vinegar % cup sugar 

1 pint boiling water 2 cups chopped celery or tomatoes 

1 teaspoon salt % can sweet red peppers 

Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes; add vinegar, lemon juice, 
boiling water, sugar and salt. ' Strain and when beginning to set add re- 
maining ingredients. Put on ice for twenty-four hours, and serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. (If cabbage is seaded, drain that and tomatoes be- 
fore using, or use less water., 



POTATO SALAD 

3 potatoes 1 onion 

1/2 cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Boil potatoes in salt water. When cool, peel and dice. Cut onion very 
fine and mix with potato; sprinkle vinegar over the potato and set away 
to get cold. 

Just before serving add mayonnaise. Celery and pimiento add to 
the salad. 



RUSSIAN SALAD 

Mrs. C. M. Smith. 
Russian salad is a vegetable salad made of all the pretty colors you 
can get, the canned sweet pepper here making a bright spot in this salad. 
Cut all the larger cooked vegetables such as potatoes, carrots, beets, etc., 
into pretty forms. Then use peas, string beans, mushrooms, etc. Alternate 
all these with French dressing and serve with mayonnaise. It is very pretty 
to put the mayonnaise in the bottom of the salad dish and arrange the 
vegetables, each into a section by itself, alternating the pretty colors. 



SOMERSET SALAD 

tomatoes green peppers 

cucumber french dressing 

lettuce 

Peel medium sized tomatoes; chill; cut in halves crosswise. Tor each 
portion arrange one-half tomato on a nest of lettuce leaves and garnish top 

of each with slice of cucumber (fluted edges) and a sinaller slice of green 
pepper. Serve with French dressing. 



58 SALADS 



STRING BEAN SALAD 

string beans Frencli dressing 

Select young, tender beans; string and cut each one in three pieces 
lengthwise. Cover with boiling salted water; boil twenty minutes and drain. 
Throw them into cold water for ten minutes; then put them in boiling un- 
salted water, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Drain and cool. Ar- 
range them neatly on a small platter; cover with Freneli dressing. 



TOMATO AND CHEESE SALAD 

tomatoes red peppers 

cream cheese French dressing 

Peel the tomatoes after scalding them and slice thickly. Wipe each 
slice dry and cover with a layer of cream cheese mixed with chopped red 
pepper and garnished with small rounds of the pepper. Serve with French 
dressing. 



TOMATO AND MUSHROOM SALAD 

4 tomatoes 1 onion 

1 cup mushrooms % cup celery tops 

mayonnaise lettuce 

Scald tomatoes and chill. Mince onion, chop mushrooms and celery, 
moisten with mayonnaise. Cut a slice off the top of the tomatoes, take 
out seeds and fill with mixture. Put mayonnaise on top and serve on 
lettuce. 



TOMATO JELLY 

Hannah Kallum. 
1 slice onion 

3 cloves 1/2 teaspoon thyme 

1 bay leaf 1 teaspoon salt 

14 box gelatine 1 teaspoon sugar 

mayonnaise % teaspoon pepper 

Boil tomatoes and spices together. When done strain and add gelatine 
which has been soaked in one half cup water. Place on ice and serve with 
mayonnaise. 



THE M ANILA COOKBOOK 59 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 
1 large chicken 1/2 pint pickles 

6 eggs 1 tablespoon mustard 

1 pint green celery 1 teaspoon pepper 

or white cabbage 

Boil chicken in salt water; when cold, skin, take from bones and chop 
fine. Hard-boil eggs, cut celery in small pieces (tender white cabbage, 
shredded, will answer if no celery) chop pickles, add mustard and pepper. 
Mix thoroughly. 



FISH SALAD 

2 lemons mayonnaise dressing 

I-V2 pint fish capers and anchovies 

Take cold cooked fish and break into flakes. Pour juice of lemons 
over this. Arrange crisp lettuce leaves to form a bed on round plate. 
Lay fish upon it and over the top put a few capers and some fillets of 
anchovy. Dress with mayonnaise and garnish with sUced leman. 



SALMON AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Mrs. Trowbridge. 
1 can salmon mayonnaise 

1 green cucumber 

Drain oil from salmon, pick it apart, remove skin and bones. Select 
a green, crisp cucumber; pare and cut in thin slices and soak in salt ice 
water one hour. Drain dry and mix with salmon. Serve with mayonnaise. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



60 



CHEESE 



CHEESE CRACKERS 

6 crackers 

6 teaspoons grated cheese 
pinch cayenne 

Cover crackers with cheese seasoned with cayenne pepper. Heat in 
oven until cheese melts. 



CAYENNE CHEESE STRAWS 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 

1 cup of flour 

2 ounces butter 

2 ounces grated cheese 
1 egg yolk 
pinch of salt 
few grains of cayenne 
Mix all into paste. Roll out to the thickness of silver quarters, four 
or five inches long; cut into strips an inch wide; twist as you would a 
paper squill and lay on baking sheet, slightly floured. Bake in moderate 
oven until crisp, but not the least brown. Serve cold. 



CHEESE STRAWS 

Mrs. Miller. 
1 cup grated cheese 
1 cup flour 
% cup butter 
Mix cheese, butter and flour together, moisten with a little cold water. 
Roll thin, cut into strips and bake in medium oven. 



CHEESE CUPS 

1 cup cheese 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
salt and pepper 

In a saucepan melt cheese, add milk slowly. When mixture begins to 
thicken, add eggs slightly beaten, stir until the consistency scrambled eggs; 
add seasoning. 

Take rolls cut in half, scoop out soft portion and butter surface, 

crisping them in oven. Till with mixture. 

61 



62 CHEESE 



CHEESE CUSTARDS 

4 eggs 
% cup milk 

3 tablespoons grated cheese 
salt, pepper and paprika to taste 

Beat up eggs, add boiling milk and grated cheese, seasoning of salt, 
pepper and paprika; pour into small buttered moulds, stirring all the time 
so as not to let cheese settle. Cover with buttered paper and steam gently 
untU set. Cut thin slices of bread and stamp out rounds a little larger 
than the moulds, fry in hot melted butter to a golden brown. Turn out 
the custard on the bread; put a little pile of grated cheese on top of each 
and brown in oven. Serve garnished with cress. 



CHEESE FONDU 

Mrs. Barre. 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup milk 

1 cup fine bread crumbs 

2 cups grated cheese 

1 saltspoon dry mustard 

2 eggs 

pinch of cayenne 

Melt butter and whisk it into the boiled milk; add the dissolved bread 
crumbs; let cool. Beat the yolks of eggs; put in seasoning, add cheese, 
mix all together. Add whipped whites of eggs; pour into deep tin hned 
with buttered paper. Allow for rising. Bake about twenty minutes and 
serve immediately on taking from oven. 



CHEESE OMELET 

2 eggs 

1 tablespoon gTated cheese 
Yz teaspoon meat extract 
1 tablespoon hot water 
1 tablespoon butter 

salt, pepper and grated nutmeg 

Beat up the whites of eggs ; add the yolks, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, 
cheese and meat extract dissolved in the hot water; stir lightly. 

Melt the butter in omelet pan; pour in the mixture and fry very care- 
fully till light brown; then put in oven to brown top. Fold over and serve 
on hot dish. 



THE MANILA CO OK BOOK 63 

CHEESE PATTIES 

pie crust grated cheese 

currant jelly 
Make patties of rich pie crust and bake. Fill with layer of jelly, a 
layer of grated cheese, another layer of jelly and last the cheese. Put in 
oven to brown. Good served with meat or fowl. 



CHEESE PUDDING 

1/2 lb. grated cheese 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

1 teaspoon flour 
1 teaspoon butter 

1 tablespoon bread or cracker crumbs 
salt, pepper and paprika to taste 
Mix together grated cheese, flour, bread crumbs, salt, pepper and pa- 
prika to taste; then add the milk, boiling hot, butter, the yolks of eggs and 
the whites stiffly beaten. Mix gently; pour into buttered pudding dish 
and bake twenty minutes, in moderate oven. Serve hot. 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 ounce butter 
1 ounce flour 
% pint milk 
3 ounces finely grated cheese 
3 eggs 
pinch of salt and cayenne pepper 
Melt butter, mix smoothly with it the flour and seasoning, add to the 
mUk and simmer over fire, stirring continually till as thick as melted but- 
ter; add cheese, turn into bowl and add the well beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Whisk three whites of eggs to stiff froth and just before souffle is baked 
put in these whites and pour into round tin. Souffle will rise very high. 
Bake twenty minutes and serve immediately. Sufficient for six people. 



ENGLISH MONKEY 

2 tablespoons butter 
1 cup minced cheese 
1 cup bread crumbs 
1 pint milk 
1 egg 
salt and pepper 
Soak bread crumbs in milk, add cheese, butter, egg and seasoning. Stir 
together until well cooked. Serve on hot crackers. 



64 CHEESE 



FOR THE CHAFING DISH 

Mrs. Ratheway. 
3 cups Eastern or California cheese 
3 cups bread crumbs 
3 cups milk 
3 eggs 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 

salt to taste 

paprika 

Soak bread in milk one hour before using. Cut cheese in small pieces. 
Let the cheese melt, cover with paprika, add bread and mUk, then the eggs 
well beaten. Serve on crackers or toast. 



WELSH RAREBIT 

3 ounces grated dry cheese 

2 egg yolks 

4 ounces grated bread 

3 ounces butter 

1 dessert spoon made mustard 
pinch of salt and pepper 

Mix cheese with the yolks of eggs; add the grated bread and butter 
and seasoning. 

Toast slices of bread cut thin into shapes and spread the paste thick 
upon them and put in oven. Let them become hot and slightly browned. 
Serve hot. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



65 



ENTREES including CURRIES 

All the so-called "French Entrees" are simply re-warmed meats. Re- 
heat white meats in white or yellow sauce ; dark meats in tomato or brown 
sauce. 

The meat from soup may be used for curries, bobotee, or any dish 
calling for high seasoning. Cold mutton may be made into pilaf, stewed 
mutton with rice, or hash, or a casserole, etc. 



BRAISED CHOPS 

chops of pork, mutton or veal 
3 tablespoons melted butter 

3 tablespoons flour 

4 cups water 

salt and pepper 

Take any kind of chop; put butter in skillet, when hot lay in chops. 
When well brow.ned place in stew kettle and prepare it with a sauce made 
from three tablespoons melted butter, flour, salt and pepper to taste, 
and warm water; cook this to a boiling point, stirring all the time. Turn 
over chops and cook slowly till tender. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

1 large chicken 
5/8 cups flour 
1% cups broth 

1 tablespoon butter 

Melt butter. When hot add flour and broth and cook until very thick 
Stir in minced chicken and make into shape. 

Dip into beaten egg and then into cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 
If no broth on hand, use milk. 



CHICKEN ENTREE 

Mrs. Ingalls. 
2 chickens 
2 eggs 

1 tablespoon butter 
18 sticks macaroni 

2 cans mushrooms 
salt and pepper 

Remove meat from bones. Chop fine. Boil the bones m water 
enough to cover them, for half an hour. 
66 



THE MA NILA COOKBOOK 67 

Add to the chopped chicken the eggs well heaten and sufficient of the 
stock to make a smooth paste. Season with salt and pepper, add butter. 
Boil macaroni until tender, being careful not to break. Line a buttered 
porcelain bowl with the macaroni and fill with mixture. Set in saucepan 
of boiling water and cook for half hour, or until chicken is tender. Re- 
verse in circular chop dish, surrounded with mushrooms and serve hot. 



CHICKEN IN RICE CASSEROLE 

1 cup rice 
2% cups milk 

3 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon salt 

% teaspoon pepper 
1 pint cold chicken 
1 eup peas 
salt and pepper 

Wash rice; put in boiling water and cook twenty minutes, then drain. 
Add one half cup milk, one tablespoon butter, salt and pepper. Stir into 
rather smooth paste. Brush custard cups with butter and line to the . 
depth of one inch with rice mixture. Put two tablespoons butter and two 
of flour together; add one pint milk, stir until boiling, add salt and pepper 

and chicken nicely seasoned and blocked. Fill this mixture in center of 
cups, cover with rice, stand in pan of boiling water and cook in oven 
twenty minutes. Turn carefully on to heated dish, garnish with nicely 
seasoned peas and serve. 



CROQUETTES 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt 

1 quart cold chopped meat 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons butter % teaspoon white pepper 
4 tablespoons flour dash cayenne 

1 pint hot milk 1 saltspoon grated nutmeg 

1 egg 1 tablespoon onion juice 

bread crumbs 2 tablespoons parsley 

This recipe will answer for all kinds of meat croquettes. Chop 
sufficient cold meat to make one quart; rub together butter and flour; 
add them to a pint of hot milk; stir and cook until a smooth thick paste, 
then take from fire. Add to meat, salt and pepper, nutmeg, parsley and 
onion juice. Mix thoroughly; add cream sauce; mix again and turn out 
to cool. When cold form into croquettes ; dip in egg, roll in bread crumbs 
and fry in hot fat. 



68 ENTEEES INCLUDING CURRIES 

JAMBALAY 

Mrs. M. H. Crawford. 
1 cup rice % pound ham, chopped 

1 large green pepper % pound sausage or 

1 small red pepper V2 pound shrimp or 

1 onion % pound chicken 

2 tomatoes 1 pint boiling water 

3 tablespoons tomato catsup sprig parsley 

Wash rice and soak in cold water for one hour. Pry the other 
ingredients in Crisco, then add the boiling water. Stir in the rice and 
meat. Cover the pot and cook slowly for thirty minutes. Add salt. 

If it boils too low, add boiKng water. 



MEAT SOUFFLE 

Mrs. Barre. 
1 cup minced meat 
1 egg 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley or celery 

pinch cayenne pepper 
1 saltspoon salt 
1 lemon 

Beat egg separately. Mix the meat, yolk of egg and seasoning and 
beat thoroughly. When ready for oven, fold in the white of egg and 
sprinkle with cracker crumbs. Bake fifteen minutes. Garnish with slices 

of lemon. 



MINCED LAMB 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 

1 pint chopped lamb 
V2 ■ pint milk 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon chopped mint 
% teaspoon salt 
dash of cayenne 

6 slices toast 

6 eggs 

Rub butter and flour together and the milk and seasoning. Cook 
until boiling. Add the mint and lamb. Place over hot water while you 

make the toast. Trim toast, butter and cover each slice with a thick layer 
of minced lamb, leaving a hole in center. Poach six eggs. Put one in 

each center. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 69 



MOCK TERRAPIN 

Mrs. G. E. Seybo'lt. 

1 pint fowl % pint milk 

2 tablespoons butter 3 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon flour 1 teasphoon Worcestershire sauce 

salt and pepper 

Rub together butter, flour and seasoning, add milk; stir until boiling. 
Add this to the hard boiled yolks of eggs, rubbing all the while. When 
you have a smooth yellow sauce, add the cold cooked fowl, which has 
been cut in cubes of an inch. Serve very hot. 



MONGOS AND RICE 

% cup mo,ngos 2 tablespoons lard 

% cup rice 1 onion 

1/2 cups stewed tomatoes salt and pepper to taste 

Wash mongos, cover with cold water and bring to a boil. Drain, rub 
off husks, cover with boiling water and cook until tender. Boil rice in a 
separate stewpan. 

Shee onion and saute in hot lard until clear and tender, but not brown. 
Add boiled rice, boiled mongo and stewed tomato. Season with salt and 
pepper. Heat thoroly and serve while hot. 



REMNANTS 

cold meat 
1 egg 
cracker 
stock or gravy 

Take remnants of cold meat, grind or chop very fine, salt and pepper 
to taste; add one well beaten egg, one third as much cracker crumbs as 
chopped meat, and stock or gravy enough to moisten. Steam in well 
buttered cups until thoroughly heated. 



RICE AND CHEESE 

Jacinto Johes. 
2 cups water 

% cup grated cheese 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce i/^ cup cream 

dash of red pepper 
Cook rice for twenty minutes. Take grated cheese, salt, Worcester- 
shire sauce, red pepper and cream and make a sauce. 

Place alternate layers of rice and cheese in dish and bake. 



70 ENTREES INCLUDING CURRIES 

TONGUE OR HAM ON TOAST 

1 cup minced tongue or ham 

2 egg yolks 

Stir eggs over fire until creamy. Serve on buttered toast. 



TURKEY PATTIES 

1 cup cold turkey 
1 cup cream 
3 tablespoons flour 
3 tablespoons butter 

1 pint oysters 
salt and pepper 
Mix butter and flour. Add the cream, salt and pepper, and cook until 
thick. Then add turkey; let simmer five minutes. Stir in oysters ajid 
cook until they are plump. Pill patty shells and serve. 



INDIAN CURRY MADE FROM CURRY POWDER 

Mrs. W. F. Oldham. 
1 onion 

1 tablespoon curry powder 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 pint cold meat 

1 cup cream or 

1 coeoanut 
Chop onion very fine and mix with curry powder, working it up to 
smooth paste. Brown this in butter till golden brown. Add the meat cut 
in small cubes, and simmer slowly for a few minutes. When curry is ready 
to serve, season with salt, lemon or vinegar. Lastly, add the miilk, or eream, 
bring to boil. If cocoanuts are obtainable, grate coeoanut, pour half 
pint boiling water on it and press out all the milk. You can use this 
instead of milk or eream. Meats to be curried should be cooked tender 
before putting in curry. 



CHUTNEY 

juice 3 lemons " 8 pounds tomatoes 

1 pound raisins, stone 4 pounds onions 
21/2 pounds brown sugar 1 pound figs 

1/2 pound prunes 1 pound red peppers 

1/2 pound salt 6 pounds apples 

2 ounces ground ginger 5 quarts vinegar 

Pound these ingredients witb pestle and mortar, and boil in vinegar 
till it is the consistency of chutij 
Pass with curried dishes. 



THE MAN ILA COOKBOOK 71 

CHICKEN CURRY 

Mrs. Stunts. 
1 chicken 

1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup rice 
salt and pepper 
Prepare chicken for frying, brown in butter, then cover with boiling 
water and simmer till tender. Season with salt and pepper. Add to the 
curry made from "Indian Curry" recipe. Serve with boiled rice. In 
serving curry and rice, Indian Eelish, chutney, pickles or tart jam should 
be used. 



INDIA CURRIED ONION 

anions 

1 tablespoon butter » 

2 eggs 
1 lemon 

Fry sliced onions in butter, salt well. Add one teaspoon curry pow- 
der and stir in two raw eggs. Add a few drops of lemon juice just before 
removing from Are. 



VICTORY STEAK CURRY 

1/2 pound victory steat 1 green mongo 

1 small onion 3 small green peppers 

2 tablespoons butter % cup cream 

% tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon curry powder 

Take the steak and roll in balls size of hickory nuts. If firmly 
rolled, they will not separate. Pour sufficient hot water over to cover. 
Simmer for half hour. Slice onion fine, fry in butter till rich brown. The 
onion may be left in or taken out. Take curry powder and flour, mix 
and put into hot butter. Take the meat balls from liquid and fry in 
curry for a few minutes, then add liquid. A few slices of green mongo 
stewed in the curry is nice. It gives tartness to the curry ; if used, simmer 
long enough to cook tender. If you like a hotter curry, two or three small 
green peppers may be added. After ""j liquid let simmer few minutes. 

A half cup cream added just before removing from fire makes a richer curry. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



12 



EGGS 



CREAMED EGGS ON TOAST 

8 slices of bread 1 tablespoon butter 

5 hard boiled eggs 1 teaspoon com starch 

1% cups milk 1 saltspoon salt 

Toast the bread and arrange on a platter; cut around the eggs so 
as to remove the yolks. Butter the toast, on which lay the whites cut in rings, 
and upon this grate the yolks. Have ready a cream sauce made with 
milk, butter, corn starch (dissolved in a little milk) and salt; bring this 
to a boil; pour over the prepared toast and sprinkle with a little pepper. 
Serve. 



EGGS A LA CARACAS 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
% pound dried beef 2 tablespoons grated cheese 

1 can tomatoes 1 teaspoon onion juice 

eggs salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon butter 
Mix shaved dried beef with thick part of canned tomatoes, grated 
cheese, onion juice, salt and pepper. Pour into a pan in which the butter 
has been melted. After all is well blended and thick, beaten eggs are 
stirred in and the whole is cooked just long enough to set the eggs. 



EGG CUTLETS OR CROQUETTES 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 
4 hard boiled eggs 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cupful mUk 1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon salt dash pepper 

Rub butter and flour into a ball and stir into the hot milk untU dis- 
solved. Cook well, adding aU other ingredients, parsley last. Let stand 
until thoroughly stiff, then form into outlets or croquettes; dip into egg 
and crumbs. Fry in wire basket, in very hot fat. For cutlets, add paper 
squill to end, to look like well served chop. 



DEVILED EGGS 

Mrs. M. O. Fox. 

6 boiled eggs vinegar 

1 teaspoon melted butter salt and pepper 

1 teaspoon celery seed mustard to taste 

Boil eggs ; cut in halves, remove yolks ; mash the yolks and add melted 

butter, celery seed, a little vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard to taste. 

Mix well and put back in the white cup of the eggs. 

73 



74 EGGS 

FORCED EGGS 

Mrs. H. E. Stafford. 
eggs bread crumbs 

Worcestershire sauce salt and pepper to taste 

Hard boil; cut in halves; remove yolks; season with salt, pepper, 
Worcestershire sauce; replace in the holders; paste together with white 
of raw egg. Roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in hot lard to amber 
brown. Serve on nest of potato straws. 



LUCAUIAN EGGS 

Mrs. Hathaway. 
5 hard boiled eggs 1% cups white sauce 

1 cup cooked macaroni salt and pepper 

% cup grated cheese onion juice 

anchovy essence 

Cut eggs in eighths lengthwise. Add cooked macaroni, cheese, and 
white sauce seasoned with salt, pepper, onion juice and anchovy essence. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish; cover with buttered crumbs and set in 
the oven long enough to bake crumbs. 



OMELET 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 
mUk eggs butter 

Beat separately yolks and whites of required number of eggs. To 

the yolks add salt and pepper and one tablespoon of milk for each egg. 
Mix well and add stiffly beaten whites. Mix well and cook in hot well- 
buttered frying pan. When brown, fold and serve. 



PICNIC EGGS 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 
2/3 cupful milk 1/3 teaspoon dry mustard 

y2 cupful bread crumbs 1 raw egg 

1 cupful cooked ham 6 hard boiled eggs 

Put milk on the fire with bread crumbs until bread has absorbed milk. 
Take from fire and add finely chopped ham, dry mustard and raw egg. 
Put this mixture around each hard — boiled egg, place in wire basket and 
fry ; wrap in paraf fine paper ajid take to picnic. 



THE M ANILA COOKBOOK 75 

SCALLOPED EGGS 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
12 eggs 1 cup milk or cream 

2 cups bread crumbs 

Hard boil eggs ; slice thin in rings ; place in well buttered baking dish 
a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of eggs, etc. Have crumbs on top. 
Over the whole pour a large cup of cream or mUk, and brown nicely in a 
moderately heated oven. 



SPINACH AND EGG 

Mrs. H. E. Stafford. 
eggs cooked spinach 

Hard boil eggs, cut lid off the tops, take out yolks, stuff with boiled 
spinach. Press yolk through sieve, and dust over the top. Serve. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



76 



BREAD and HOT BREADS 



POTATO YEAST 

2 medium sized white potatoes 2 teaspoons salt 
3% cups water 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon hops 

Cook potatoes in two and a half cups water. Take the potatoes from 
the water, mash them very fine and return them to the water in which they 
were boiled, which should be about two cups. While the potatoes are cook- 
ing, boil one level tablespoon of hops (they may be purchased from grocery 
firms in Manila) in a cup of water and strain the water. Add one cup of 
the hop water to the potatoes, and stir into the mixture two teaspoons of 
saJt and two tablespoons of sugar. 

Put this mixture into a jar, cover it, and let it stand until the potatoes 
rise to the top, which will be in about two days. The yeast is then ready 
for use. 



YEAST BREAD 

2 medium sized potatoes 4 tablespoons sugar 

4% cups water 4 tablespoons lard 

2 teaspoons salt 2 cups boiling water 
4 tablespoons sugar flour 

In the evening, boil two potatoes of medium size in four and a half 
cups of water. Take the potatoes from the water, mash them fine, and 
return them to the potato water. 

To the potato water add two teaspoons of salt and four level table- 
spoons of sugar. When the mixture is lukewarm add the potato yeast. 
Cover it and set it aside until morning, when it should be light and foamy. 

In the morning put four tablespoons of sugar and four tablespoons of 
lard into a large mixing bowl and pour over the ingredients two cups of 
boiling water. When this liquid has cooled to lukewarm, stir the potato 
yeast into it, reserving about one and one-fourth cups for a start for the 
next baking. Stir into the liquid enough sifted flour to make a stiff sponge 
and beat it well. Cover this sponge and set it in a warm place. When it 
is light, which should be in about one hour, stir into it enough sifted flour 
to knead. 

Knead this dough for about twenty minutes, return it to the mixing 
bowl and set it in a warm place to rise. When it has doubled in size, which 
should be in about one hour, mould into loaves or rolls and put into greased 
pans. Cover and set aside to rise. When the dough has again doubled in 
size, put into a well regulated oven and bake. 

77 



78 BREAD AND HOT BREADS 

SALT RISING BREAD 

Mrs. C. J. McKee. 
1 tablespoon com meal 2% pints warm water 

^2 cup scalding milk 1 teaspoon salt 

pinch of soda 
Stir com meal into scalded milk at night. Set in warm place; in the 
morning take a pint of warm water, a pinch of soda, and make a stiff 
batter. Stir in the mixture that has stood over night; beat well; set in a 
kettle of warm water at an even temperature. It should be light in two 
hours. Then add one and a half pints of warm water, salt and sufficient 
flour to work into loaves. Knead until smooth; put into bread pans and 
set over warm water or in some warm place to rise. Then bake. A pinch 
of soda, or a teaspoon of lime water mixed with the com meal and milk 
will prevent souring over night. 



BRAN BREAD 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
1% cups graham flour 1 pint sweet milk 

1 cup wheat bran 1% teaspoons soda 

1 cup commeal 1 teaspoon salt 

% cup molasses 
Stir all together and steam in flreless three hours and a half, or bake 
in oven forty minutes. 



BAKED BROWN BREAD 

2 eggs 1% cups bran or graham flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup white flour 

5 tablespoons molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sweet milk II/2 cups seeded raisins 

Sift together bran or graham flour and white flour. Add flour mixture 
to liquid. Sift soda into raisins; add raisins to 'bread mixture. Bake in 
moderate oven fifty-five minutes. A good change can be made by using one 
cup of raisins and one-half cup of chopped nuts instead of one and a half 
cups of raisins. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
lYz cups grahajn flour 1 pint sweet milk 

S cups com meal 1% teaspoons soda 

% cup molasses 1 teaspoon salt 

Stir all together and steam in flreless three hours and a half, or bake 
in oven forty minutes. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 79 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

1 eup com meal y^ teaspoon salt 

% cup flour 1 cup sour milk 

1/2 teaspoon soda y2 cup molasses 

Sift meal, flour, soda and salt together; add the sour milk and mo- 
lasses. Steam three hours if cooked in one loaf. Empty baking powder 
cans which have been tested for leakage may be used for small loaves. 



CORN BREAD 

Mrs. Warren Smith. 

1 cup cornmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 1 eup milk 

4 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter 

9 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. 

Add milk, eggs well beaten, and butter. Bake in shallow buttered pan 
in hot oven twenty minutes. 



BOILED CORN BREAD 

Mrs. Quinan. 
Yz cup sweet milk 2 cups corn meal 

1/3 eup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

V2 cup flour 1 cup sour milk 

Mix sweet milk, molasses, flour, com meal and soda, dissolved in 
sour milk. Pour into a greased mould (a small lard pail answers the 
purpose), cover and boil for two hours. 

The canned cream will sour if allowed to stand and may be reduced 
to the consistency of milk, or add one tablespoon of vinegar to a cup of 
sweet milk to sour it. 



NUT BREAD 

Mrs. Hartford Beaumont. 
2 cups graham flour % cup molasses 

1 eup white flour 2 cups sour milk 

2 cups English walnut meats 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups seedless raisins 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

% eup sugar 2 teaspoons hot water 

large pinch of salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add nuts and raisins. Add molasses, 
milk, and soda dissolved in water. Bake forty five minutes in slow oven. 



80 BREADANDHOT BREADS 

PILI NUT BREAD 

Mrs. John H. Lamb. 

4 eups flour 1 cup pili nuts, broken in 

6 teaspoons baking powder fourths 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

Mx together flour, baking powder, salt and sugar; sift; add nuts. 
Add milk and eggs beaten together. Put in buttered pans two loaves, and 
let stand twenty minutes. Bake half an hour. 

The batter is very stiff, but do not knead; if necessary add very 
little more milk to wet any dry flour if the batter is not smooth. 
Walnuts may be used in place of pili nuts. 

Raisins may be used instead of nuts, but in that case use only one half 
cup sugar, or bread will be too sweet. 

Very good if half cup raisins and half cup nuts used, with three- 
fourths cup sugar. 



CINNAMON ROLLS 

1 liter bread sponge 3 tablespoons butter 

1 egg flour 

2 teaspoons sugar powdered cinnamon 

To bread sponge add well beaten egg, sugar and butter. Stir into 
the sponge enough sifted flour to knead. 

Knead the dough for about ten minutes, put it into a mixing bowl, 
and set it in a warm place to rise. When it has doubled in size, pour 
it out on a well-floured board, roll it to a thickness of about one centi- 
meter, spread it with butter, sprinkle it with sugar and dust with pow- 
dered cinnamon. Roll up the dough like a jelly roll, cut it into pieces 
about five centimeters thick and put the slices, cut-side down, into a 
greased pan. Let them rise to double in size, and bake them in a quick 
oven. 



FRENCH ROLLS 

1 cup yeast 1 teacup hot water 

1 quart milk 1 mashed potato 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons lard or butter 

% teaspoon soda salt and sugar to taste 

Mix together yeast, milk and flour. When this is light add soda in 
hot water, potato, butter or lard, and flour enough to make a soft dough. 
Add salt and sugar to taste. Let rise four hours or until light; make 
it into rolls; let rise again and bake. Half the quantity is enough for the 
average family. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 81 

RUSKS 

3 cups sifted flour % nutmeg (grated) 
3 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 

3 tablespoons sugar 4 eggs 

Take sifted flour, baking powder, salt, sugar, nutmeg and cinnamon, 
mix these together; add milk and well beaten eggs. Mix into a soft dough 
with floured hands; make into round balls; rub the tops with sugar and 
water, and sprinkle with dry sugar and cinnamon. Bake immediately. 



APPLE JOHNNY CAKE 

Mrs. E. J. Pace. 
1 cup sour milk 2/3 cup flour 

1 tablespoon melted butter 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup cornmeal 4 apples 

Sift together dry ingredients, add butter and milk, and apples cut 
finely; stir well and bake quickly. 



CORN MUFFINS 

1 cup corn meal 3 eggs 

1 cup sweet milk ^/^ cup sugar 

1 cup flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Yi cup butter 
Mix together cornmeal, milk, flour, butter, eggs and sugar, and add 
baking powder just before baking. 



MUFFINS 

Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 
2 eggs 1% teaspoons baking powder 

1% cups sweet milk 1 tablespoon butter or lard 

salt flour 

Beat eggs and milk with sufficient flour to make a moderately stiff 
batter. Add baking powder, melted butter or lard, and salt. Bake 
quickly. 



MUFFINS 

Mrs. G. E. Seybo-lt. 
1 egg 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter 3 cups flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 



82 BREAD AND HOT BREADS 

To the beaten egg add butter, sugar and salt, all beaten until light. 
Then add milk, flour, and baking powder. One-half graham and one-half 
rye meal may be used instead of wheat flour, or two eups com meal 
and one of flour. Drop on well greased patty pans and bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. 



ROLLED OAT MUFFINS 

2/3 cups rolled oats 3 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup scalded milk 34 teaspoon salt 

1% cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons shortening 1 egg 

Turn scalded milk on oats, let stand five minutes; add sugar, salt and 
melted shortening; sift in flour and baking powder, mix thoroughly and add 
egg well beaten. 



GOLDEN CREAM TOAST 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon butter 3 hard boiled eggs 

salt, pepper and mace 

Cut slices of stale bread diamond shaped and toast to a pale brown. 
Make a rich white sauce of milk, butter, flour, salt to taste. Cook until 

smooth and add the grated yolks of hard boiled eggs and pour over the 
toasted bread. Add pepper and mace if the flavor is desired. 



BISCUITS 

Mrs. M. 0. Fox. 
1 quart flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon salt 

cream 

Take flour, baking powder, salt and butter. Mix up soft dough with 
one part cream to two of water. Roll out to the desired thickness, kneading 

as little as possible. 



BRAN BISCUIT 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
1 quart wheat bran 2 teaspoons soda 

1 pint flour 1 tablespoon lard 

3 cups sour milk 6 tablespoons molasses 

salt to taste 

Mix dry ingredients; add molasses mixed with sode dissolved in little 
water, lard and mUk. Stir well and bake in gem tins. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 83 

MASHED CAMOTE BISCUIT 

2 cups sifted flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons shortening 

1 cup mashed camote liquid to make a soft dough 

Sift all dry ingredients. Cut or rub fat into dry ingredients. Eub the 
camote into this mixture. Add just enough milk or water to make the 
mass cling together. Do not knead. Place on floured board, roll to 
about two centimeters thickness; cut with round biscuit cutter, place on 
a lightly floured biscuit tin and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a moder- 
ately hot oven. 



FRITTERS 

Mrs. G- A. Miller. 
2 eggs 4 apples or bananas 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
1% cups flour 

Beat eggs, add milk, flour, baking powder. Chop either apples or 
bananas, add to the batter. The sugar may be added if desired. Fry 
in smoking hot lard. 



JAPANESE FRITTERS 

Mrs. G. E. Smith. 
2 effffs stale bread or cake 

1 cup milk powdered sugar or jelly 

Beat eggs; add milk. Cut stale bread into fingers about one inch 
square and three inches long, free from crust. Put these slices into the 
milk and egg, and let soak until they have absorbed the milk. Drain 
carefully; roll in bread crumbs. Place in wire basket and fry in hot fat. 
Serve with powdered sugar or with sauce or jelly. Stale cake can be 
used in the same way. 



BREAD PANCAKES 

4 slices bread V2 pint of milk 

1 egg salt and pepper 

Break stale bread into small pieces; pour over a little boiling water. 
When soft beat in egg; add milk, a pinch of salt and a little sugar. Add 
prepared flour enough to make a batter. 



84 BREAD AND HOT BREADS 

RYE PANCAKES 

Mrs. E. J. Pace. 
1 cup rye 2 level teaspoons soda 

1/2 cup wheat flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Sift together dry ingredients and add enough buttermilk to make 
batter. 

Or use 11/2 cups wheat flour, 

Or use % cups rye flour, % cups wheat flour, 

Or use 1/2 cup eommeal, 1 cup wheat flour. 



WAFFLES 

Mrs. Hartford Beaumont. 
2 eggs 1 cup flour 

% cup water % teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Enough to make two round waffles. 





WAFFLES 


Mrs. C. H. Smith. 


2 cups milk 




% cup butter and lard mixed 


3 eggs 




2 teaspoons baking powder 


1/2 teaspoon salt 




flour 



Take milk, eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), melted butter 
and lard mixed, baking powder, flour enough to make a batter as stiff 
as pancake batter. Add baking powder and the whites of eggs the last 
thing before cooking. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



85 



SANDWICHES 



CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
1 hard boiled egg % teaspoon mustard 

% pound grated cheese 1 teaspoon melted butter 

% teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar or 

% teaspoon pepper cold water 

Crumble the yolk of the egg, put in the butter and work smooth; add 
other ingredients, mixing all well. Spread between biscuits or oat cakes. 
If too highly seasoned, season to taste. Extremely nice and easily made. 



DATE SANDWICHES 

In preparing dates for tea sandwiches, clean them and cover with cold 
water for three minutes; then drain and lay on a plate, and put in hot 
oven for five minutes; remove stones, cut in slices and place between thin 
buttered slices of bread. 



EGG SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
eggs salt and pepper nutmeg 

Hard-boiled eggs, cut moderately thin, and placed between some bread 
and butter cut as thin as possible, and seasoned with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 
Preferable to hard-boiled eggs on picnic parties. 



FUDGE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
1 cup sugar % tablespoon butter 

% cup milk 1 square chocolate 

Make fudge as usual, beat until almost stiff, and before it hardens 
spread on thin buttered bread for sandwiches. 



GREEN PEPPER SANDWICH 

2 green peppers 
% cup grated cheese 
mayonnaise 

Scald peppers and put on ice to chill. When chilled, cut up fine and 
mix with grated cheese and mayonnaise. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 87 

HAM SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
chopped ham pinch red or white pepper 

% cup butter pinch of salt 

1 tablespoon mixed mustard yolk of one egg 
1 tablespoon salad oil 

Rub the butter to a cream, add other ingredients and mix thoroughly; 
then stir in as much chopped ham as will make it consistent, and spread 
between thin slices of bread. 

Omit salad oil and substitute melted butter if preferred. 



HAM SANDWICHES 

(A Provincial Invention) 

1 can deviled ham butter the size of an egg 

6 pickled cucumbers % teaspoon dry mustard 

little onion if desired 

Mince the pickles and onions and mix all together thoroughly. Spread 
thinly on thin slices of bread. 



MUSHROOM SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
tongue French mustard mushrooms 

Mince beef tongue and mushrooms together, add French mustard and 
spread between bread. 



NUT SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
peanuts jelly 

Apricot jelly or any tart jelly mixed with chopped peanuts makes a 
nice sandwich. 



NUT AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
grated cheese salt 

English walnuts cayenne pepper 

Mix equal parts of grated cheese and chopped English walnut meats, 
season with salt and cayenne and spread on thin slices of bread. Especially 
good with brown bread. 



88 SANDWICHES 



OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
1 quart olives (stoned) 1 dozen hard boiled eggs 

mayonnaise dressing 

Chop together olives and eggs and moisten with mayonnaise. Spread 
between thin slices of bread. 



PINEAPPLE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. C. W. Edmunds. 
bread pineapple 

Cut white bread into thin slices, remove the crust, and butter well. 
Chop pineapple very fine, drain off the juice, and sprinkle the minced fruit 
over the bread, press down firmly and cut in squares. 



RAW BEEF SANDWICHES (For invaUds) 

beef salt and pepper 

Cut juicy, lean beef into thin strips. Scrape the pulp from them, 
season highly with salt and pepper, and spread between very thin slices of 
bread. 



RIBBON SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. V. Powers. 
green olives 
cheese 
pimientos 
cream or salad dressing 

For first filling, cut green olives from the stones and put through food 
chopper. Tor second filling, put cheese and pimientos in equal amounts 
through food chopper and mix; if not sufficiently moist add cream or 
salad dressing. 

Cut the desired amount of graham bread and white bread into thin 
slices as for ordinary sandwiches. Beginning with the graham bread, put 
first the olive filling, then a slice of white bread, then the cheese filling, 
alternating the kinds of bread and fillings until five slices of bread have 
been used. Press the bread together and cut down through all the slices 
of bread, making sandwiches about three-fourths of an inch thick, the 
width of the slice and five layers high. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 89 

SARDJNE SANDWICHES 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
2 cans sardines salt and pepper to taste 

tiny pieces of lettuce or few drops lemon juice 

Take sardines and throw into hot water, having first drained off the 
oil. A few minutes will free the sardines from grease. Dry in a cloth; 
scrape off the skin and reduce to a paste, add salt, pepper and tiny pieces 
of lettuce, which adds to the flavor. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

Or chop sardines iine and squeeze over them a few drops of lemon 
juice. Spread on bread or cold biscuit. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



90 



CAKE 



All ingredients should be properly prepared before commencing to 
mix any of them. 

Eggs beat up much lighter and sooner by being placed in a cold place 
some time before using. Flour should always be sifted before using, and 
cream of tartar or baking powder should be thoroughly mixed with the 
flour; butter should be placed where it will become moderately soft, but 
not melted. 

Eggs should be well-beaten, whites and yokes separately. Always stir 
the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the beaten yolks, the milk, the 
beaten whites, and lastly the flour. If fruit is used, dredge with sifted 
flour, and stir in gradually and thoroughly. Never stir cake after the 
butter and sugar is creamed, but beat it down from the bottom up, and 
over; this laps air into the cake batter and produces little air cells which 
cause the dough to puff and swell when in contact with the heat. To as- 
certain when cake is done, run a broom straw into the middle of it; if it 
comes out clean and smooth, the cake will do to take out. 



FROSTINGS— ICINGS— FILLINGS 

Allow, for the white of one egg, one small teaoupful of powdered 
sugar. Break the eggs and throw a small handful of the sugar on them 
as soon as you commence beating; keep adding it at intervals until it is all 
used up. The eggs must not be beaten until the sugar has been added this 
way, which gives a smooth tender frosting, and one that will dry much 
sooner than if made the old way. Add flavoring. 



BOILED ICING 

To white of one egg allow one small teacupful of sugar, and just water 
enough to moisten well. Boil your sugar and water until the syrup spins 
a thread, then beat slowly into well beaten whites of eggs, beating steadily 
until all is thoroughly mixed and light. Add flavoring. Eor chocolate stir 
your ground unsweetened chocolate into the boiled icing. 



BOILED FROSTING 

1 pint granulated sugar 
3 tablespoons water 

2 eggs (whites only) 

Boil sugar and water until it spins threadlike when slowly dropped 
from tip of spoon. Have the whites of eggs beaten stiff and pour hot 
syrup over, beating hard all the time. Flavor with any preferred extract. 

91 



92 CAKE 

ALMOND FROSTING 

3 eggs 3 cups sugar 

1 pound almonds 

Blanch almonds, pound them in a mortar with a little sugar, till a 
fine paste. 

Beat eggs and fine white sugar to stiff icing, then add almond paste, 
mixing thoroughly. Cover cake with thick coating of this and afterward 
with plain icing. 



MAPLE FROSTING 

% cup maple syrup 
2 tablespoons Karo com syrup 
2 egg whites 

Boil maple syrup and Karo corn syrup to 240 degrees P., or to the 
soft ball stage. Pour in a fine stream on the whites of eggs, beating con- 
stantly meanwhile; beat occasionally until cold. If the frosting does not 
hold its shape, set the bowl in a double boiler (over boiling water) and keep 
moving it from the bottom until it thickens perceptibly. Leave it rough 
on cake. 



TUTTI FRUITTI ICING 

1 ounce chopped citron 1 ounce candied cherries 

1 ounce seedless raisins 1 ounce candied pineapple 

1 ounce blanched almonds 

Mix with boiled icing. 



BANANA FILLING 

Cut fine the desired amount of bananas, mix thoroughly with sufficient 
sugar to make paste that will spread well, and place between the layers. 
Cover the cake with boiled icing, and if to be served soon, lay long pieces 
of banana on top. 



CARAMEL FILLING 

1 cup brown sugar 
% cup cream 
1 tablespoon butter 

Boil until it starts to string from spoon.- 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 93 

CHOCOLATE FILLING 

Mrs. Gibson. 
1 eup sugar 3/4 cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter 2/5 cake chocolate 

pinch of salt 
Boil together until it' thickens, stirring constantly. 



CREAM FILLING 

% cup hot water 1 egg white 

1 cup powdered sugar 1/2 eup chopped walnuts 

1 tablespoon grated coeoanut % cup raisins 
Put water on sugar, let them simmer. Beat white of egg and mix with 
syrup. When cold add nuts, raisins and coeoanut. Place between layers. 



FIG FILLING FOR CAKE 

1 cup chopped figs 1 cup sugar 

% cup water 
Place in double boiler and boil until thick. 
Dates may be used in same way. 



FRUIT FILLING 

4 tablespoons citron 4 tablespoons raisins 

% cup almonds ^4 pound figs 

3 eggs % eup sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs to stiff froth, add sugar. Then thoroughly 

mix into this the whole of the chopped ingredients. Put between layers 
of cake while it is hot. 



FRUIT AND NUT FILLING 

1 cup seeded raisins 1 eup chopped nuts 

Make a boiled icing and add the chopped raisins and nuts. Save out 
a few nuts to sprinkle over top of cake. 



ORANGE FILLING 

3 cups powdered sugar 1 orange 

2 egg whites " % lemon 

Mix sugar with beaten whites of eggs, the juice and grated rind of 
orange and juice of lemon, flavoring with orange extract. Spread between 
layers. Ice top with boiled icing and decorate with sections of mandarin 
oranges. 



94 CAKE 

SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. C. A. Gunn. 
6 eggs, beaten separately 1/3 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1% cups sugar pinch of salt 

1% cups flour (after sifting) 1 lemon or orange 

(juice and rind for flavoring) 



SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. C. Sullivan. 
3 eggs 1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon water 1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat eggs very light, add sugar and beat. Add water, and flour with 
baking powder sifted into it. 



SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. N. E. Thompson. 
3 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar % cup hot milk 

1 teaspoon butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Beat the eggs five minutes by the clock, add sugar one tablespoon at 
a time and continue beating. Add the hot milk with the butter melted in 
it. Sift flour three times; add baking powder at last sifting and use any 
flavor desired. 

This batter may seem too thin, but if receipe is foHowed strictly, a de- 
licious cake will be the result. 



VELVET SPONGE CAKE 

Mrs. Peterson. 
1% cups flour 4 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1% teaspoons baking powder 

% cup boUing water % lemon 

>Beat yolks of eggs, add sugar, and beat fifteen minutes. Flavor with 
vanilla and the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, pinch of salt. Add 
two beaten whites, flour and baking powder just before the boiling water 
and flavoring. Bake in pan one foot square. Cover with boiled icing, place 
half nuts on top, and cut in squares. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 95 

PLAIN CAKE 

Mrs. C. Sullivan. 
3 cnps flour % cup butter 

2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

3 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream butter and eggs. Add the well beaten yolks and milk. Sift 
flour three times, sifting baking powder the last time, and add. Lastly, 
fold in the well beaten whites. 



PLAIN CAKE 

3 eggs y^ cup cream 

1 cup sugar % cup water 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon butter 3 cups sifted flour 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat eggs separately. Add the yolks, then 
milk and flour, baking powder sifted in flour, and whites of eggs. 
Bake in one pan. 



L 



IL 



BLACK ANGEL CAKE 

Mrs. G. H. Smith. 

1 cap brown sugar 2 cups flour 

% cup butter 3 eggs 

% cup milk 2 scant teaspoons soda 

1/2 cup milk 1 cup grated chocolate 

1/2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

While this is warm, stir in first mixture. 



APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

Mrs. G. A. Gunn. 
1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

% cup butter V2 teaspoon cinnamon 

or other shortening Yz teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup cold apple sauce 2 cups flour 

1 cup chopped raisins 



96 CAKE 

BROWN STONE FRONT 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
Part I. 

1 egg yolk 1 cup sugar 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 squares chocolate (unsweetened) 
Grate chocolate, mix with milk and yolk of one egg and sugar, boil until 
thick. When cool add vanilla. 
Part II. 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

% cup butter 1/2 cup milk 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda 

Cream butter and sugar, add the egg yolks well beaten, and milk. Then 
add flour and soda. Mix in Part I, and, lastly, fold in well beaten white. 
Bake in layers and put together with boiled icing. 



BURNT LEATHER CAKE 

Mrs. 0. M. Shuman. 
1% cup sugar 3 eggs 

% cup butter 1 cup water 

2% cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Bum syrup. One-half cup sugar stirred in a pan until it burns. Add 
one half cup boiling water and boil until thick syrup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add the yolks of eggs well beaten, water and 
two cups of flour, sifted three times. Beat for five minutes, then add three 
teaspoons of burnt syrup, baking powder stirred into one half cup of flower, 
whites of eggs well beaten. 



ICING 

1 cup sugar white 1 egg 

14 cup water 

Boil sugar and water until it balls in water; pour over the stiffly beaten 
white of egg, and color with burnt syrup. 



COCOANUT CAKE 

5 eggs y2 cup boiling water 

3 cups sugar 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 orange 

1 cup grated cocoanut 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 97 

Beat together until thick and light colored, the yolks of five eggs, whites 
of three, and two cups of sugar. Add the grated rind and juice of orange; 
then, in succession, boiling water and stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
flour mixed with baking powder, and cocoanut. Make a boiled icing of 
two whites of eggs, a heaping cup sugar, half cup water and juice of one 
orange. 

Bake in sheet about an inch thick, in moderate oven. When cool, spread 
with jelly and cover with icing. 



COFFEE CAKE 

Mrs. C. A. Gunn. 
butter, melted, size of an egg 2 cups flour (before sifting) 
% cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake twenty minutes. 



COFFEE CAKE 

Mrs. Peterson. 
! 1 cup brown sugar 1/2 cup butter 

t 1 cup molasses 4 cups flour 

1 cup strong cold coffee 1 teaspoon soda 

2 pounds raisins % pound citron 

1 J tablespoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup walnuts 2 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar. Add coffee and molasses, then eggs well 
beaten. Next fruit, spices and nute, and flour. Bake in one pan. 



EGOLESS LOAF CAKE 

3 cups flour 2 cups sugar 

1 tablespoon baking powder % cup butter 

2 cups milk lemon or vanilla extract 

Cream sugar and butter. Sift together four times flour and baking^ 
ponder. Mix all together with milk. Flavor. 

When cold, ice with Eggless Icing — 1 cup sugar, five tablespoons milk. 
Stir until it boils, then boil five minutes without stirring, and beat until 
smooth and creamy. 



98 CAKE 

FEATHER CAKE 

% cup butter 1 cup milk 

2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 3 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar. Add milk and yolks of eggs well beaten. 
Sift flour three times, add baking powder last sifting. Add flour and lastly, 
the well beaten whites. 

Bake in three layers, put together with any good frosting or jelly. 



ICE CREAM CAKE 

Mrs. F. F. Van Bushirh. 
Filling Cake 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup powdered sugar 

yolk 1 egg % cup butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla whites 3 eggs 

1 cup prepared flour 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Mix ingredients for filling well and place on ice. 

For cake cream butter and sugar, add flour and well beaten whites and 
lemon juice. Bake twenty minutes in two layers. 



MAPLE SYRUP CAKE 

Mrs. P. P. Herrich. 
% cup shortening 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon soda 

1 cup maple syrup % cup hot water 

2 eggs % cup ginger 
2% cups flour % cup hot water 

Beat shortening to a cream; beat in one half cup of sugar, eggs, well 
beaten; then add alternately, flour, baking powder, soda and ginger sifted 
together, and hot water. 

Bake in a pan about thirty-five minutes. Use a pan about ten and one 
half by seven inches. When cold, invert and cover the surface with maple 
icing and decorate with halves of nut meats. 



MARSHMALLOW CAKE 

Bake angel cake in two layers. Make boiled icing of one large cup 

sugar to whites of two small eggs. Cut marshmallows in halves and put 

on coating of icing, then more icing. Flavor with two-thirds vanilla and 
one-third almond. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 99 



NUT CAKE 




Mrs. C. H. Smith. 


1 cup butter 


1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 


V/2 cup sugar 


3 tablespoons hot water 


3 cups flour 


4 eggs 


1 pound dates, chopped 


1 pound English walnuts, chopped 


POUND CAKE 




Mrs. Agatha Cook. 


% lb. fresh Holland butter 




1 cup sugar 


6 eggs 


% teaspoon nutmeg 


1 teaspoon baking powder 


2 cups flour 


1 tablespoon brandy 



Cream sugar and butter. Add the egg yolks (seven, if small) well 
beaten, flour sifted three times, baking powder sifted in last sifting. Have 
whites beaten very stiff and fold in; lastly, add brandy. Bake thirty-five 
to forty minutes in moderate oven — if coal stove, take forty-five minutes. 



SUSAN B. ANTHONY CAKE 

1 cup sugar 2/3 cups milk 
1/3 cup butter 2 1/3 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

Cream sugar and butter with the yolks of eggs. Add milk and well 
sifted flour. After the other ingredients have been well stirred, sift baking 
powder into batter. Lastly, fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 

Bake in loaf, flavor to taste. 



WALNUT LAYER CAKE 

walnuts boiled icing 

Chop nuts fine and mix small cupful with cake batter. Put boiled icing 
between layers, and sprinkle thickly with chopped nuts. Around the top 
place halves of nuts on icing. 



WHITE CAKE 

1% cups sugar 2V^ cups flour 

% cup butter 6 eggs 

1 cup water 4 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream sugar and butter thoroughly. Add one cup flour, stir thoroughly 
and add the rest of the flour and water, alternately. Then stir in the whites 
of eggs, well beaten. Stir aU three minutes and bake in three layers. 

Filling — Two cups sugar, one-half cup water. Boil until it threads 
and pour over stiffly beaten whites of four eggs. 



100 CAKE 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE 

2 cups sugar 21/2 cups flour 

% cup butter 2 tablespoons baking powder 

1 cup milk 4 eggs 

Cream sugar and butter. Add milk, flour and baking powder. Have 
whites of eggs well beaten and fold in batter. 

Bake in layers or loaf. A little more flour is used for loaf. 

For hut cake add one and a half cup chopped nuts to loaf cake batter 
and bake slow in oven. 



CINGERBREAD 

Mrs. 0. M. Shuman. 

2 cups molasses 3% cups flour 

1 eup butter 1 cup boiling water 

3 eggs 2 teaspoons ginger 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon cloves 
3 teaspoons soda (heaping) 

Cream butter, add well beaten eggs, molases and spices — dissolve soda 
in water and add — stir in flour. 
Bake in one pan. 



MOLASSES CAKE 

Mrs. Barre. 
1 egg % eup molasses 

1/2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

% eup butter 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

% cup cold tea 1 cup flour 

pinch salt 
Bake in shallow pan. 



MOLASSES CAKE 

Mrs. C. Sullivan. 
1 cup butter % cup molasses 

1 cup sugar 1 cup mUk 

1 egg 3 cups flour 

21/2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream sugar and butter; add beaten egg, molasses and milk; stir in 
flour sifted with baking powder. Bake twenty minutes. 

Baked in layers and filled with boiled icing is very delicious. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 



101 



WAR CAKE 



2 cups brown sugar 
2 cups water 

2 tablespoons cocoanut oil 
or any melted shortening 

2 cups raisins 

3 cups flour 



1 heaping teaspoon soda 
1 heaping teaspoon salt 
1 level teaspoon cloves 
1 level teaspoon cinnamon 
1 level teaspoon nutmeg 



Boil sugar, water, shortening and raisins together for five minutes. 
When cool add flour, salt, soda and spices, sifted together. Bake in sheet 
in moderate oven. 



FRUIT CAKE 



12 eggs 
4 pounds raisins (whole) 
4 pounds currants 
1 pound citron 
1 pound sugar 
1 pound butter 
1 pint molasses 
1 pint brandy 



Mrs. 0. M. Shuman 
1 pint sherry 
1 bottle vanilla 
1 tablespoon mace 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 
1 tablespoon cloves 
3 nutmegs 
1 pound flour 



Cream butter and sugar, add spices and yolks of eggs, well beaten, and, 
molasses. Stir in flour and whites of eggs, well beaten, alternately. 

Just before adding fruit and brandy, take out enough batter to cover 
top of cakes. Use extra flour to flour fruit thoroly, before adding to batter. 

Add brandy and sherry and bake in two pans for three hours, in 
moderate oven. 



FRUIT AND NUT CAKE 



Yz cup butter 

1 cup sugar 

1 cup nuts 
% cup citron 

3 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs and milk. Chop nuts 
and citron; flour fruit before adding to mixture. Flour enough to make 
thick batter. Bake in slow oven. 



1 cup milk 

1 cup raisins (seeded) 

1 cup currants 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
flour 



102 CAKE 



AUNT LIZZIE'S SPICE CAKE 




Mrs. C. V. Powers. 


1 cup sugar (half brown) 


1 teaspoon allspice 


% cup butter 


% teaspoon nutmeg 


% cup molasses 


14 cup strong coffee (if wisbed) 


(black, full cup) 


3 eggs (leave out 1 white) 


1 teaspoon cinnamon 


% cup sweet milk 


1 teaspoon cloves 


3 rounding teaspoons baking powder 


1 cup raisins 


% teaspoon soda 




2% cups flour 



OLD FASHIONED POTATO DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs. P. P. Merrick. 

1 tablespoon butter 4 eggs 

2 cups sugar 5 cups flour 

% cup milk 5 teaspoons baking powder 

Cook potatoes, mash dry and add other ingredients. Sift baking powder 

with the flour. Use cinnamon or nutmeg to flavor. Roll, fry in lard, and 

sprinkle with sugar. 
"EAT PLENTY". 



DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup sugar 3 1/3 cups flour 

3 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk % teaspoon cinnamon 
IV2 teaspoon salt % teaspoon nutmeg 

2 tablespoons shortening 

Beat the eggs untU light. Add sugar and shortening (creamed) and 
milk. Sift the flour, add baking powder, spices and salt, and sift again. 
Add this gradually to mixture, stirring constantly. If necessary add more 
flour, enough to roll, but remember too much flour makes doughnuts tough. 
Knead one half mixture, and pat to one fourth inch thickness ; cut out dough- 
nuts with floured cutter. 

Test fat, when hot enough, put in two or three gently. When brown 
turn with a fork, once only. When done, pick one up with a fork (without 
piercing doughnut) and immerse quickly in pan of hot water, and drain. 
Reheat fat and test before using again. If fat is too hot, the doughnuts 
will sear over and not rise. Just before serving, roll in powdered sugar. 

If desired, add teaspoon grated ginger to dough and small piece of 
ginger root to hot fat. The doughnuts will be less greasy, less fat will be 
needed and the taste of ginger be scarcely perceptible. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 103 

ENGLISH DIlOP CAKES 

Mrs. C. A. Gunn. 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour (before sifting) 
% cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs flavoring 

Drop from teaspoon into pans. A walnut on top of each drop cake 
is a pleasing addition. 



EGG KISSES 

Mrs. W. A. R. Tenny. 
8 eggs, whites 1 pound granulated sugar 

Beat egg whites very light, add sugar; mix quickly, and bake from 
thirty to forty minutes in very moderate oven. Before mixing the kisses, 
place paper (not buttered) on a pan turned upside down. Drop the mix- 
ture in spoonfuls, placed well apart. When baked, slip paper off pan on 
to table, slip knife under kisses and take at once off paper. These are fine 
filled with whipped cream, prepared as for Charlotte Russe. 



TEA CAKES 

Mrs. G. H. Smith. 
1 cup sugar % cup milk 

1 cup flour 4 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon baking powder 3 eggs 

vanilla 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



104 



COOKIES 



PLAIN COOKIES 

1 cup butter 1 orange 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs flour enough to roll 

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs well beaten, juice of orange, bak- 
ing powder and enough flour to roll out nicely. Bake in moderate oven. 



CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

Mrs. C. W. Edmunds. 
1 cup light brown sugar II/2 cups flour 

V2 cup shortening 2 squares chocolate 

1 egg i'2 cup walnuts 

% cup milk vanilla 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
Beat the egg; add the sugar and melted or soft shortening; cream 
throughly; add the milk; sift flour and baking powder, add slowly; stir 
in the melted chocolate, walnuts and vanilla. Drop for small cookies. 



FROSTING 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 2 squares chocolate 

Make like fudge, being careful not to cook too much. 



CHOCOLATE MACAROONS 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 
butter size of an egg 2 eggs 

2 ounces Baker's chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Melt butter, stir in grated chocolate until smooth. Add sugar, eggs 
not beaten, vanilla, flour, baking powder. Flour board and fingers; form 
dough into little balls and bake in greased pans, leaving room to spread; 
bake slowly. 



COCOANUT DROP COOKIES 

] % cups flour % cup sugar 

1 rounded teaspoan baking powder % cup grated cocoajiut (dry) 

1 egg grated lemon rind 

1/2 cup sweet cream 

105 



106 COOKIES 



Sift together flour and baking powder. Beat egg and sugar until 
light; add grated coeoanut and a little lemon rind, then alternately flour 
and cream. Drop in little pats on buttered pans, dusted with flour, allow- 
ing room to spread. Sprinkle a little grated cocoajiut over each cake and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



COCOANUT MACAROONS 

3 eggs 3 cups shredded coooanut (dry) 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

To the unbeaten whites of the three eggs add sugar and beat until 
thick and light; add coeoanut and vanilla. Drop from end of oven until 

firm. Cheap and delicious. 



EGOLESS FIG COOKIES 

Mrs. C. W. Edmunds. 
1 cup sugar 6 level teaspoons baking powder 

% cup shortening 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup figs 1 teaspoon salt 

Yz cnp milk 2 cups flour 

Cream the sugar, shortening and the figs, which have been put through 
a food chopper; add the milk slowly, then the nutmeg and the salt; sift 
together baking powder and flour and add. Roll a quarter of an inch 
thick. Bake in a hot oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. 



FRUIT COOKIES 

Mrs. Peterson. 
3 eggs 1 teaspoon cloves 

1% cups sugar 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 large cup raisins flour enough to roll 

(stoned and chopped) 
Mix ingredients in order named. Bake in moderate oven. 



ENGUSH GINGER SNAPS 

Mrs. Agatha Cook. 
1 cup butter 1 teaspoon hot water 

or 1/2 butter, 1/2 lard 3 level teaspoons ginger 

11/2 cups granulated sugar y^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1% cups molasses flour to roll 

% teaspoon soda 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 107 

Cream the butter; beat in the sugar, then the molasses. Stir in a 
little flour, then add the soda dissolved in the hot water with the rest o^ 
the flour, being careful to keep the dough from getting too stiff. Maks 
of a consistency to allow you to shape it with floured hands into small 
baJls the size of a walnut. Place on greased baking sheet about two 
inches apart to allow for spreading. Flatten out slightly and bake in 
moderate oven. 



RHODE ISLAND GINGER SNAPS 

Mrs. S. E. Kennedy. 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoan ginger 

2 teaspoons butter 1 teaspoon saleratus 
1 tablespoon hot water flour 

BoU the molasses, add butter, ginger and saleratus. Dissolve the 
saleratus in tablespoon hot water and put into molasses while boiling. Stir 
in the flour when it is hot, roU thin and bake quickly. 



HERMITS 



1% cups sugar % teaspoon oinnanon 

1 cup butter 1 cup sour milk 

3 eggs 1 cup chopped raisins 

V^ teaspoon cloves 1 cup currants 

1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

Mix soda and flour, add other dry ingredients and sift; add butter, 
eggs slightly beaten and milk. Mold in enough more flour to roU out. 



LEMON COOKIES 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 

1 cup butter and lard mixed % cup milk 

2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
2 eggs 2 teaspoon lemon extract 

flour (about 2 cups) 

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs well beaten and milk; add flour 
and baking powder sifted together, and extract. Use flour enough to 
make stiff, roll thin, cut out and bake. 



108 COOKIES 



MARSHMALLOW MARGUERITES 

thin unsweetened crackers 

1 small box marshmallows 

Take any variety of thin, unsweetened cracker, spread lightly with 

butter and set in a baking pan; on the center of each cracker put a 
marshmallow with a bit of butter above (the butter may be omitted). Put 

the pan into a hot oven untU the marshmallow is softened and browned 
a little, then serve at once. 



NUT CdOKIES 

1 tablespoo.a butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 cup sugar pinch of salt 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons milk 

1 cup flour 1 cup ground hickory nuts 

vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs, flour, baking powder, salt, nulk 
and nuts ; flavor with vanilla. Drop a teaspoonf ul on buttered pans about 
two inches apart; if too thick, add a little more mUk. 



OATMEAL COOKIES 

Quaker Oats Co. 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 eggs 21/2 cups uncooked Quaker Oats 
2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon butter 

Cream butter and sugar. Add yolks of eggs. Add Quaker Oats, to 
which baking powder has been added, and add vanUla. Beat whites of 
eggs stiff and add last. Drop on buttered tins with a teaspoon, but very 
few on each tin as they spread. Makes about sixty-five cookies. 



ORANGE COOKIES 

% cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup granulated sugar 4 level teaspoons baking powder 

1 orange 1 egg 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually and grated rind of orange, 
add without separating yolk and white, one fourth cup of orange juice and 
flour and baking powder sifted together. A little more flour may be 
needed to roll into a sheet, cut into squares, set in baking pan, dredge with 
granulated sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 109 

PEANUT COOKJES 

Mrs. C. W. Edmunds. 
2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

% cup sugar 14 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 21/2 tablespoons milk 

% eup flour % cup chopped peanuts 

% teaspoon lemon juice 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually; add well beaten egg. Mix- 
and sift baking powder, salt and flour; then add milk, peanuts, and lemon 
juice. Drop on buttered sheets an inch apart. Bake twelve to fifteen 
minutes in a slow oven. 



PEANUT COOKIES 

1/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs % teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons milk 1V2 cups ground peanuts 

Cream butter; mix well with sugar; add eggs and milk; then flour, 
baking powder and salt sifted together. Add nuts and flavoring. Bake 
in little drop cakes. 



ROCKS 

11/2 cups brown sugar 21/2 cups flour 

1 scant cup butter 1 level teaspoon soda 

3 eggs 14 cup hot water 

1 cup raisins 1 cup nuts 

Mix sugar and butter, add eggs, flour, soda dissolved in hot water, 
raisins and nuts; flavor; drop off the spoon' on to buttered tins. 



SAND TARTS 

% cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar white 1 egg 

1 egg blanched almonds or pUi nuts 

1% cups flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

14 teaspoon cinnamon 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and egg well beaten ; then flour 
mixed and sifted with baking powder. Chill, toss on floured board and 
roll one eighth of an inch thick. Shape with a doughnut cutter. Brush 
over with white of egg and sprinkle with sugar mixed with cinnamon. 
Split nuts and arrange three halves on each at equal distances. Place 
on buttered sheet and bake eight minutes in slow oven. 



110 COOKIES 



SOUR CREAM COOKIES 

Mrs. C. A. Gunn. 
2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sour cream 1 cup sour cream 

Sour the cream by adding one tablespoon vinegar to each cup of 
cream. Mis soft; roll thin; sift granulated sugar over and roll gently in. 
Cut and bake. 



SUGAR COOKIES 

Mrs. S. J. Kennerly. 
2 cups sugar 1 scant teaspoon baking powder 

% cup butter 4 eggs 

Vg cup sweet milk flour enough to roll 

Beat eggs very light, add sugar, beat again, add butter melted anB 
sweet mUk. Have flour and baking powder in bowl, pour the above mix- 
ture in the middle and mix in gradually with a spoon. Eoll on a well 
floured cloth until very thin, sprinkle with granulated sugar, pass roller 
over lightly and cut. Bake in a moderately quick oven. 



ILLA WAFERS 






Mrs. Q. 


W. Wright. 


2 


cups flour 


2 


teaspoons 


baking powder 


V2 


teaspoon 


salt 


2 


teaspoons 


vaniUa 



1/3 cup butter 

(or part lard) 
1 cup sugar 
1 egg 
% cup milk 

Cream the butter, add sugar, egg well beaten, milk and vaniUa. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients and add to first mixture. ChUl thoroughly, roU as 
thin as possible on floured board, place near together on buttered sheet 
and bake in moderate oven. 



WHITE COOKIES 

Mrs. Peterson. 
5 eggs % teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup butter % teaspoon lemon extract 

5 cups flour 2% cups sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream the butter and sugar; beats yolks and whites of eggs sepa- 
rately. All the ingredients must be fresh and of the best. Keep mixture 
cool until placed in oven. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



/ 



^c.'i;-- 



/- C 



'.'^ >-' / 









--C't:^-, 















A/s ' -""i '^ '' * *«&*■ y' '^ ■, ^..-vw f ' ■ inf., J i-i 

i h '•' ■' ^ * /' ■' .'^ 'L ^ < 



111 



PASTRY 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Great care is requisite in heating an oven for pastry. If you can hold 
your hand in the oven while you count twenty, the heat is just right, and 
should be kept that way whUe the pastry is in. This heat will bake to a 
light brown, and will give the pastry a fresh flaky appearance. If the heat 
abates, the lower crust will become heavy, and the upper crust will fall in. 
Pie crust can be kept in a tightly covered dish in the ice chest for some days, 
and thus a fresh pie every day can be made without much trouble. 

In baking custard, pumpkin or lemon pies, partly bake the crust first 
so that it will not absorb the filling. 

Stewed fruits should be cold when put in the pie, or the crust will 
become sodden. 



PLAIN PIE CRUST 

2-1/2 cups sifted flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

% cup butter 1 large teaspoon baking powder 

% cup lard % cup cold water 

Rub the shortening into the flour, sifted with baking powder and salt, 
and mix with water. Mix as little as possible and handle very lightly. 



FINE PUFF PASTE 

1 quart sifted flour 1 cup butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup lard 

1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup ice water 

white 1 egg 

Mix baking powder and salt with sifted flour and then sift again. 
Have ready butter and lard, hard and cold; rub the lard smoothly into the 
flour, and add ice water with which the white of an egg has been mixed, 
and make a very stiff dough. Roll into a thin sheet and spread on it one 
fourth the butter, dusting it with flour; roll up like a scroll, double the ends 
over to meet, flatten and roll again. Repeat this until all the butter is used. 
Put in an earthern dish and set in a cold place for an hour or more before 
making the pies. 



PATTIES 



Roll out puff paste thin and cut with a biscuit cutter. Cut center 
out of two of every three, put the two rings on the third and bake at 
once. If the cutters are dipped in hot water, it will make the patties rise 
higher in baking. This recipe may be used for either patties or tarts. 
112 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK U3 

APPLE PIE 

1 can apples uinnamon 

2 tablespoons sugar butter 

One can of apples for two pies. Slice into lower crust, sprinkle a 
tablespoon of sugar over each, a little cinnamon and some slices of butter, 
a very little juice. Cover with upper crust and bake. 



APPLE CUSTARD PIE— No. 1 

3 cups milk 2 cups thick stewed apple 

4 eggs nutmeg or cinnamon 
1 cup sugar 

Strain thick stewed apples through a colander, add sugar. Beat yolks 
lightly and mix with apple; flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. Beat into 
this the mUk, and lastly the well beaten whites. Bake with one crust and 
let that bake before putting in the filling. 



APPLE CUSTARD PIE— No. 2 

4 eggs sugar to taste 

1 quart milk seasoning to taste 

apples 
Lay a crust on your pie plates, slice apples thin, and half fill plates; 
pour over them a custard made from eggs and mUk, sweetened and seasoned 
to taste. 



APRICOT MERINGjUE PIE 

White Mouse Gook Book. 
1 can apricots 1 egg 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoon sugar 

A canned apricot meringue pie is made by cutting the apricots fine 
and mixing them with half a cup of sugar and the beaten yolk of an egg; 
fill the crust and bake. Take from the oven; let stand a few minutes, 
cover with meringue made from white of egg and one tablespoon of sugar; 
bake in a slow oven until golden brown. Can be made into a tart by omit- 
ting meringue and adding crisscross strips of pastry when the pie is first 
put into the oven. 



BANANA PIE 

Mrs. W. J. Scott. 
3 eggs 3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup sugar 1 pint milk 

1 tablespoon butter vanilla 

2 bananas 3 tablespoons sugar 



114 PASTRY 



Put milk into vessel to boU. Mix egg yolks, cup of sugar, butter and 
flour; beat mixture well and add to boiling milk. Cook until real thick. 
Set off to cool and flavor with vanilla. Make a rich crust and bake. Then 
slice bananas in the crust and pour custard over them. Beat the egg whites 
untU stiff with three tablespoons sugar. Spread on the pie and brown. 



CHOCOLATE PIE^No. 1 

Mrs. Gha/rles E. Gordon. 
1 pint milk 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar Yi oup chocolate, melted 

1 heaping teaspoon cornstarch 
Mix sugar, cornstarch, egg yolks and chocolate and stir into boiling 
milk. Beat white for meringue. Bake in half set pie crust. 



CHOCOLATE PIE— No. 2 

1 egg chocolate 

sugar custard pie 

Put some grated chocolate into basin and pla«e on back of stove, let 
it melt but do not add any water. Beat egg with some sugar in it; when 
melted spread this over custard pie. Lovers of chocolate will like this. 



COCOANUT PIE 

1 pint milk meringue 

1 greated cocoanut 3 tablespoons sugar 

3 eggs yolks white 3 eggs 

1 cup sugar 

Mix cocoanut with well beaten yolks and cup of sugar; stir in the 
milk, filling the pan even full and bake. Put over top mering-ue made of 
whites of eggs and three tablespoons sugar. Brown quickly. 



MOCK CREAM PIE 

3 eggs pinch salt 

1 pint milk small piece butter 

1 cup sugar nutmeg 

3 tablespoons flour 

Beat sugar, flour and egg yolks together. After the milk has come to 
a boil add the mixture, salt and butter. After it has cooled, place in baked 
crust and sprinkle over it a little nutmeg. Place meringue over top and 
brown in oven. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 115 

CUSTARD PIE 

White House Cook Booh. 
4 eggs nutmeg or vanilla 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 quart milk 

pinch salt 
Beat together until very light egg yolks and sugar; flavor with nutmeg 
or vanilla; then add beaten whites, salt and, lastly, a quart of milk; mis 
well and pour into tins lined with paste. Bake until firm. 



LEMON PIE 

Mrs. Peterson. 

1 small cup sugar 1 lemon 

2 tablespoons flour 4 eggs 

1 small tablespoon butter pinch of salt 

1 cup hot water 4 tablespoons sugar 

Mix together sugar, butter, flour, juice and one half grated yellow rind 
of lemon, egg yolks, salt and hot water; cook until thick. Put in baked 
crust; cover with whites of eggs beaten stiff with four tablespoons sugar. 
Brown quickly and serve cold. 



MANGO PIE^No. 1 

Mrs. J. S. Day. 

3 mangoes, rather green 1 teaspoon vinegar 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon spices 
2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon butter 

Pare and slice fine mangoes, add sugar, flour, vinegar, spices and butter. 
Bake with two crusts. 



MANGO PIE— No. 2 

8 green mangoes spice 

iy2 cups sugar (or more) 
Peel and boil mangoes until tender; pour off water; slice mango from 
seed. Mix with plenty of sugar, at least a cup and a half; add spice and 
fill into crust; cover and bake. 



MINCE PIE 

Mrs. W. S. Harris. 
1 can Heinz mince meat %, box raisins 

Yz can S & W apples % pound citron 



MINCE PIE A LA MODE 

Serve mince pie with vanilla ice cream on top of each piece. 



116 PASTRY 



PINEAPPLE PIE 

1 cup sugar 5 eggs 

% cup butter 1 pineapple 

1 cup cream 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add beaten yolks, tben grated pine- 
apple and cream, and lastly the beaten whites whipped in lightly. Bake 
with under crust only. 



PRUNE MERINGUE PIE 

% pound prunes 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

% cup sugar white 2 eggs 

cinnamon 

Soak, stew and stone prunes. Sweeten and flavor with lemon juice; 
add a little cinnamon. Line the pan with good paste, fill with prunes and 
bake until done. Draw the pie to the mouth of the oven and spread with a 
meringue made with well beaten white of eggs and one spoon of sugar. 
Brown. 



PUMPKIN PIE— No. 1 

Mrs. Momer Stuntz. 

1 egg % pint rich milk 
% cup sugar salt 

2 tablespoons stewed pump- cinnamon or nutmeg 

kin 

Stew pumpkin, cut into small pieces, in half pint of water, and when 
soft mash fine with potato masher; let the water dry away, watching closely 
to prevent scorching or burning. For each pie take one well beaten egg, 
half cup sugar, two tablespoons pumpkin, half pint rich milk, little salt; 
stir well together, and season with nutmeg or cinnamon; bake with under 
crust in hot oven. Some steam pumpkin instead of stewing. 



PUMPKIN PIE— No. 2 

Mrs. Charles S. Smith. 
1 cup pumpkin or squash 2 eggs 

% cup sugar 1 large teaspoon flour 

1 tablespoon molasses pinch salt 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Mix well pumpkin or squash with sugar, molasses, beaten eggs, flour, 
salt, cinnamon and about two cups of milk; place in crust and bake. 



THE MANILA. COOK BOOK 117 

RAISIN PIE 

1 cup seeded raisins 1 cup water 

1 cup sugar juice V^ lemon 

1 tablespoon cornstarch pinch salt 

Boil all together five minutes; put in crust and bake. 



VINEGAR PIE 

1 egg 1 tablespoon sharp vinegar 

1 heaping tablespoon flour 1 teacup cold water 

1 teacup sugar nutmeg 

Beat well together egg, flour and sugar; add vinegar and water; flavor 
with nutmeg and bake with two crusts. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



118 



PUDDINGS and DESSERTS 



COMMON BATTER 

For boiled puddings, fritter^ etc., 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup milk 1 cup flour 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs 

Mix in very smooth batter, a little thicker than batter cakes. 



AN<1EL PUDDING 

Mrs. C. H. Smith, 
y^^ cup butter 2 tablespoons com starch 

y^ cup flour 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup scalded milk 1 cup boiling water 

2 eggs 1/2 cup jelly or jam 
Vi cup bread crumbs % cup sugar 

Cream butter and flour, stir into scalded milk. Cook until mixture 
boils. Beat eggs and sugar lightly and when well mixed add to the first 
mixture. To this add sifted bread crumbs, and flavor with any desired ex- 
tract. Bake in well buttered patty pans. This is sufficient for five per- 
sons. Bake until the mixture is well set and browned. Place on serving 
dish, dust with powdered sugar, and serve with royal sauce as follows: — 
Mix corn starch and butter, add gradually boiling water and jeUy, or jam, 
and a little lemon juice if desired. If you use jam and the seeds are ob- 
jectionable, strain before serving. 



BAKED APPLE DUMPUNGS 

Make a rich, short biscuit dough. Take piece of dough, roU out thin 
as pie crust. Put in each piece of dough four quarters of an apple ; sprinkle 
on a spoonful of sugar, a pinch of cinnamon ; turn in the ends of the dough 
over the apple and lap tight. Lay dumplings on dripping pan, well but- 
tered, the smooth side up. When the pans are filled, put small piece of 
butter on top of each; sprinkle over a large handful of sugar; turn in 
cupful of boiling water; then place in moderate oven for three-quarters 
of an hour. Baste with liquor once while baking. Serve with hard sauce. 





APPI.F. 


PUDDING 


Mrs. Quinan. 


Cake Batter 




1 


teaspoon baking powder 


1 cup flour 




1 


can apples 


% cup sugar 






cinnamon 


% cup milk 






sugar 


1 ^gg 






butter 


1 tablespoon butter 







119 



120 PUDINGS AND DESSEETS 

Place canned apples -with their juice or partly cooked fresh apples in 
baking pan. Sprinkle with cinnamon, sugar, and dot with butter. Make 
cake batter; pour over apples and bake half an hour. Serve with any 
desired sauce. 



APPLE PUFF 

Mrs. Ben. F. Wright. 

1 cup sugar 1 can apples 

1 tablespoon butter cinnamon or 

1 cup milk nutmeg or 

2 teaspoons baking powder sliced lemon 
flour for stiff batter 

Canned apples are good for this. Put them over the fire in a pudding 
dish, and wash, sweeten and flavor to taste. Cinnamon, nutmeg or sliced 
lemon are good. Let them cook while the oven heats, and while you are 
getting together sugar, butter, milk, enough flour to make a nice, ordinary 
cake batter, and lastly the baking powder. Be sure the apples have quite 
an amount of juice. Spread the batter over the boiling apple sauce. Bake 
and serve with any kind of pudding sauce. 



BACHELOR'S PUDDING 

Mrs. Ryan. 

1 pound stale bread 1% cups sugar 
% pound beef suet 1 lemon 

2 large apples 4 eggs 
2 teaspoons baking powder 

Take grated stale bread, suet chopped fine, apples cut fine, baking 
powder, sugar, the juice and grated rind of lemon, and well beaten eggs; 
mix well, adding eggs last. BoU four hours in a well buttered and sugared 
bowl. 



BANANA PUDDING 

Mrs. G. Sullwan. 
stale cake thin boiled custard 

sliced bananas 

Cut cake in thin slices and line a dish with slices. Cover the cake with 
bananas sliced very thin. Over this pour a cupful of thin, boiled custard. 
Make another layer of cake, banana and custard. Set away to cool. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 121 

BREAD PUDDING 

1 pint bread crumbs 2 lemons 

1 quart milk % cup cocoanut 

butter size of egg whites 2 eggs 

yolks 2 eggs tart jelly 

salt and nutmeg 
Soak bread crumbs until soft, add other ingredients and bake one hour. 
Serve with tart jelly on top. 

The grated rind of lemons and cocoanut added to the above is very de- 
licious. Frost top with meringue of whites of eggs, sprinkle with cocoanut 
and brown. ■ 



COTTAGE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

2 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 egg lemon or nutmeg 

1 cup milk 
Mix ingredients ; bake in small dripping pan and serve hot with creamy 
sauce. Fruit added to the above is very nice. 



BOILED FIG PUDDING 

Mrs. Ryan. 
1 pound figs % pound beef suet 

1 pound bread crumbs 4 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon 

Have figs and suet chopped fine and bread crumbs grated, add eggs, 
sugar, the juice and rind of lemon; mix well, adding eggs last. Place in 
a well buttered and sugared bowl and tie in a pudding bag. Boil four 
hours. Do not permit water to get into bowl. 



MOCHA PUDDING 

Mrs. G. E. Seyholt. 
1 cup coffee 6 eggs 

1 pint milk 6 tablespoons sugar 

Ys teaspoon salt 
Put strong, clear coffee with milk in double boiler. Beat yolks of 
eggs, sugar and salt. Mix well, then add milk. Turn back into boiler and 
stir ten minutes, till thick like cream. Cool quickly. 



ORANGE PUDDING 

3 large oranges % teaspoon salt 

1% cups sugar 1 pint boiling milk 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon com starch 



122 PUDINGS AND DESSERTS 

Peel the oranges; cut in thin slices, removing the seeds. P^it in a pud- 
ding dish and sprinkle over one cup of sugar. Beat egg yolks with corn 
starch and two tablespoons of sugar; add salt and stir into boUing milk. 
When it thickens remove from the Are and when cold spread over oranges. 
Beat the whites of the eggs with two heaping tablespoons of sugar and 
put over pudding. Serve cold. 



ORANGE SHORTCAKE 

Mrs. Bader. 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons butter or lard 
% cup sugar 1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder nutmeg 

1 ^gg 

Mix dry ingredients and sift well; work in shortening with fingers, egg 
well beaten and mUk. Bake in layer cake pan; split, spread with butter 
and cover with oranges which have been cut in small pieces and have stood 
an hour with plenty of sugar. Serve with orange sauce. The "dalanghita" 
is the best orange. 



RICE SNOWBALLS 

Mrs. W. W. Barre. 
boiled rice 1 pint of milk 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon corn starch 

lemon flavoring 

BoU rice and mould in a cup uutU cold. Make a custard of eggs, milk 
and cornstarch. Flavor with lemon. When cold pour over rice balls half 
an hour before using. 



STEAM PUDDING 

Mrs. George W. Dunlap. 
2 cups grated raw potato 1 cup walnuts 

1 teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon butter (heaping) 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup flour 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup raisins 1 nutmeg, grated 

Grate potato and add soda; let stand a few minutes. Mix other in- 
gredients and add. Steam three hours and serve with cocoanut sauce. 



THE MAN ILA COOKBOOK 123 

STEAMED PUFFS 

Mra. C. E. Smith. 
Puffs Sauce 

Yz cup sngar 1 cup fruit juice 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons corn starch 

% cup butter 1/2 cup sugar 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon butter 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
flour 
Take sugar, eggs, butter, milk, baking powder and enough flour tO' 
make thick batter. Grease as many cups as you desire puffs. Fill each 
one about one quarter full; add any desired fruit; put in another spoonful 
batter; steam forty-five minutes. Serve hot with any good pudding sauce, 
or a sauce made from fruit juice as follows: — fruit juice, corn starch, 
sugar and butter. 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Miss E. J. Hannan. 
1 box Baguio strawberries 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 pint flour % tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt cold milk 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
Select firm clean berries. Wash in boiled or distilled water. Place 
in colander and deluge with boiling water quickly, turn out on platter or 
flat dish, mash, sweeten to taste and put on ice. Add salt, baking powder 
and sugar to flour, mix throughly, rub in butter and wet to a soft dough 
with cold milk. EoU out like biscuit; spread lightly with butter; fold once; 
bake; unfold; and spread mashed berries between layers and on top. 



SUET PUDDING 

Mrs. C. Sullivan. 
1 cup suet, chopped 2 cups graham flour 

1 cup molasses 1 cup wheat flour 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup raisins seeded 
Mix ingredients; steam three hours. 



GULAMAN OR FRUIT JELLY 

Filipino gelatine, called "gulaman", is found in the native markets. It 
is easily prepared and makes delicious jelly. "Wash carefully after break- 
ing into small pieces. To one cup gulaman take three cups water. BoU 
ten minutes, strain through cloth and add sugar and fruit juice. By adding 
the juice of tomatoes and a little salt, a jelly which is nice for salads or 
for garnishings may be made, as it cuts easily into any shape desired. 

It also makes a good custard by adding sugar, milk, eggs and flavor- 
ing. Whipped cream may be served with "gulaman" or any sweet sauce 
desired. 



124 PUDINGS AND DESSERTS 

APPLE FLOAT 

Mrs. G. A. Miller. 

4 eggs 2 grated apples 

4 tablespoons sugar custard 

Beat the whites of eggs until very light. Add powdered sugar and 
beat until fine and dry. Into this grate two apples, beating carefully un- 
til the meringue wiU hold no more apples. Spread this over a soft enstard 
or whipped cream and serve at once. 



APRICOT DELICATE PUDDING 

Mrs. C. H. 
Pudding Sauce 

1 cup apricot juice 2 cups milk 

1 cup water yolks 4 eggs 

% cup sugar 3 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons corn starch flavor to taste 

4 eggs (whites) 

One cup of any kind of fruit juice — either apricots, peaches, oranges, 
cherries, one cup of water, — one cup sugar (more according to fruit) ; place 
on stove, and when hot, add corn starch dissolved in cold water. Stir until 
entirely cooked. Add a pinch of salt. Add stiff froth of whites of eggs; 
stir up well from the bottom, place on back of stove and turn over and 
over to make the whites of the eggs a little solid. Put some of this mixture 
in the mould then a layer of the solid fruit and so on until the mixture is 
used. Place on ice. Serve with yellow sauce, made of mUk, eggs yolks, 
sugar and flavoring to taste. 



BANANA CUSTARD 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
4 ripe bananas lemon flavoring 

1 pint cold custard whipped cream 

Wash very ripe bananas; rub through a sieve; add to a pint of cold 
custard, and flavor with lemon. Serve in glasses with a tablespoon of 
whipped cream on top of each. 



CAKE CUSTARD 

3 cups custard 2 tablespoons peach jelly 

6 sponge cakes or marmalade 

whipped cream 

Make a sweet boiled custard, about three cupfuls. While this is hot 
stir into it sponge cakes broken up very small, and jelly or marmalade. 
Beat hard and when cool set on the ice to get very cold. When ready to 
serve, heap on top of each dish a tablespoon of whipped cream, and in the 
center of the cream put a very little of the peach jelly. 



THE M ANILA COOK BOOK 125 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

Mrs. C. E. Smith. 
4 eggs V/z cups milk 

8 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat eggs thoroughly; add four tablespoons of sugar, milk, and va- 
nilla. Make custard. Make a caramel of four tablespoons sugar browned. 
Have ready little tin moulds and put in each one teaspoon of hot caramel; 
turn quickly in your fingers so as to coat the sides of the mould with caramel 
as evenly as possible. Then fill the moulds about three-fourths full of the 
above custard, place them in a pan of hot water, and bake in the oven until 
the custard is set. Turn out of the moulds while wann, and serve cold. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Mrs. Stafford. 

1 ounce gelatine 2 cups orange Juice 

Yz cup cold water 4 eggs 

1 cup sugar lady fingers 

% cup lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in cold water half an hour. Make syrup of sugar, lemon 
and orange juice. Turn slowly into the beaten egg yolks; beat aU the 
time. Put into double boiler and cook until thick. Add dissolved gelatine, 
strain and beat until cold. Add whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
In place of orange any flavor may be used. Line a mould with lady fingers, 
pour in the mixture and put on the ice to harden. 



MOCK CHARLOTTE 

Mrs. G. A. Miller. 
Custard 
Yz pint boiling water % pint milk 

1 cup sugar yolks 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 teaspoons sugar 

3 tablespoons com starch vanilla 

white 4 eggs 
Take boiling water, sugar and vanilla, thicken with moistened corn 
starch. Pour this over the beaten whites of four eggs. Set on ice. 

For the custard: — Take milk, yolks of eggs, sugar and vanilla. Pour 
the boiling milk gradually over the eggs, bring to a boil, but remove imme- 
diately from the fire to prevent curdling. 



COCOANUT CUSTARD 

3 eggs 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup sugar 2 cocoanuts 

Mrs eggs, sugar and flour. To this add one pint of eocoanut milk, 

obtained by grating, washing and squeezing well the meat of cocoanuts. 

Bake either in crust or in pudding dish without crust. 



126 PUDINGS AND DESSERTS 

COCOANUT-MEAT DULCE 

A Filipino Friend. 
3 coeoanuts 4 pounds brown sugar 

To the grated meat of coeoanuts add dark sugar and when dissolved 
cook until it is a thick preserve. 



COCOANUT PUDDING 

Mrs. W. W. Barre. 

1 cocoanut 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Yz cup cocoanut milk % oup sugar 

yolks 3 eggs whites 2 eggs 

2 cups sugar 

Fresh cocoanut, grated, cocoanut milk mixed with it to make juice. 
Add beaten egg yoLks, sugar and vanilla. Mis and bake ten or fifteen 
minutes. Boil sugar and a little water until it threads, add to the beaten 
whites of eggs and spread over pudding. Put in oven and brown. Make 
in morning for evening dinner. 



COCOANUT PUDDING 

4 tablespoons minute tapioca 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup grated cocoanut 1 quart milk 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar 4 eggs 

Put tapioca in the milk and cook in a double boiler at least ten minu- 
tes. Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar together; add them to the milk and 
half of the cocoanut. Cook five minutes longer; take from the fire, and 
when cold turn into a shallow glass dish. 

Beat the whites of eggs until light; add powdered sugar and beat 
again; spread this over the top and sprinkle over the remaining cocoanut. 
Place a few maraschino cherries over the top. 



CORN STARCH PUDDING 

Mrs. C. H. Smith. 

2 cups milk whites 4 eggs 

3 tablespoons com starch vanilla flavor 

% cup sugar % cup grated cocoanut 

Dissolve com starch into a little of the milk. Stir sugar into the re- 
mainder and bring to a boil, add starch; stir constantly a few minutes 
then add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs; and cook a little longer. Flavor 
with vanilla and mould, or add % of a cocoanut, grated, before putting 
into a mould, serve with cream or a yellow sauce. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 127 

DATE TAPIOCA 

6 tablespoons tapioca 4 cups scalded milk 

12 tablespoons sugar 1 cup chopped dates 

pinch salt 

Soak tapioca in cold water; mix with sugar, salt, add hot milk; cook 
fifteen minutes, add yolks of eggs; cook three minutes. Beat whites of 
eggs stiff, heap on top; place in oven to brown. Serve cold with lemon 
sauce or whipped cream. 



FRUIT GELATINE 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
y^ pound dates cherries or 

Yi pound figs pineapple or 

bananas or 

orange 

GELATINE 

1 box gelatine 1 quarter boiling water 

Yz pint cold water 2 lemons 

1 cup sugar 1 orange 

Stone and chop dates, mix with equal amount of chopped figs; add 
candied cherries, or pineapple, or the pulp of orange, or sliced bananas. 
The mixture must be sufficient to fill a quart and a pint mould. Cover a 
box of gelatine with cold water and let it soak for half an hour. Add to 
it the sugar and boiling water and stir until gelatine is dissolved; add le- 
mon and orange juice. Strain into the mould over the fruit and stand it 
aside to harden. When cold and quite firm, turn it out upon a glass dish 
and serve with or without whipped cream. The fruit must be put loosely 
into the mould or the jelly will not penetrate. 



ITALIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. Stafford. 
1 pint milk 1 ounce gelatine 

3 eggs flavoring 

3 tablespoons sugar dash of salt 

Make custard of milk, egg yolks, sugar and salt. When cooked en- 
ough to coat the spoon, add ounce of gelatine, which has soaked half an 
hour in some of the cold milk. As soon as dissolved, remove from the fire, 
and when it begins to stiffen fold in carefully the whites of eggs whipped 
to a froth. Turn into a mould to set. 



128 PTJDINGS AND DESSERTS 

ITAUAN CUSTARD 

6 eggs currant jelly 

sugar lemon juice 

Beat yolks of eggs to a cream, and while beating add sugar and lemon 
juice to taste. Beat until quite thick. Pour into glass cups. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, whip in enough currant jelly to give it color. Heap 
the glasses with this and place on ice to chill. 



MANGO SAUCE 

Pare green mangos and slice from the seed. Boil in plenty of water 
for a few minutes; pour off the water and boil again, being careful that 
the fruit is not broken by boiling too long and hard. After the last par- 
boiling add a little water and sugar sufficient to sweeten. If the parboiling 
is carefully done so that sufficient acid is removed, the result will be like 
a delicious green apple sauce. 



MARSHMAJLLOW DESSERT 

Mrs. Hartford Beaumont. 
pineapple 1% cups whiped cream 

marsh mallows maraschino cherries 

Mix equal parts of diced pineapple (no juice) and quartered marsh- 
mallows, and let stand in ice box twelve hours to swell. When ready to 
serve add halved maraschino cherries. Mix well and add whipped cream. 
If the cream is not stiff enough add white of one egg beaten stiff. 



MARSHMELLOW PUDDING 

Mrs. Quinan. 
% tablespoon gelatine Custard 

1 tablespoon cold water 1 cup milk 

3 eggs 
1/2 cup sugar 
% teaspoon vanilla 

Soak gelatine in water. Beat the whites of eggs stiff and dry; beat 
slowly into them one fourth cup of sugar and the gelatine which has been 
dissolved over boiling water. Add flavoring that is desired and mould in 
small cups. Stand on ice, and unmould at serving time by dipping the 
outside of the cup in hot water. Serve with whipped cream, or a spoonful 
of crushed fruit, or a custard made from the yolk of two eggs, milk and 
one fourth cup of sugar, cooked in double boiler. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 129 

ORANGE JELLY 

V^ box gelatine 3 cups boiling water 

% cup cold water 3 oranges 

1 cup sugar whipped cream 

Soak gelatine in cold water half an hour; add sugar and boiling water 
and stir until dissolved. Grate the peel of two oranges and squeeze the 
juice of three on the peel. Let stand for half an hour, while gelatine is 
dissolving, and then strain into jelly. Turn into halved orange skins as 
moulds. Serve in skins with whipped cream on top of each. 



PAPAYA "APPLE" SAUCE 

Mrs. C. Sullivan. 
A delicious "apple" sauce can be made from green papayas. Select 
large green papayas in the market. Peel and cut in small pieces as with 
green apples; cook until very soft; remove from stove and put in a very 
little sugar and the juice of one lemon. Beat until very soft and smooth. 
Put in the ice box to cool and serve with roast pork or roast goose. 



PINEAPPLE AND SAGO PUDDING 

From The Philippine Education. 
1 tablespoon sago 1 tablespoon sugar 

1/3 cup boiling water % cup shredded pineapple 

Soak sago over night; stir soft sago with boiling water, cook twenty 
minutes; add sugar, and stir until dissolved. Shred the pineapple with 
a fork and pour sago over it. Then cover with a meringue and brown 
slightly in the oven. 



STEAMED AND BAKED PRUNES 

Mrs. Townsend Wood. 
Take a quantity of California prunes, pour scalding water over them, 
then wash in cold water. Add cold water enough to cover them. Cover 
closely and cook slowly until tender. If rich syrup is desired uncover and 
boil briskly. Turn into a baking pan, sprinkle a little sugar over the top 
and bake a few minutes. Serve with cream. 



PRUNE PUDDING 

Mrs. F. Seymour. 
1 dozen large prunes whites 5 eggs 

1 cup powdered sugar % teaspoon cream tarter 

pinch of salt 
Take stewed prunes, run through a colander. Beat eggs and whip in 
powdered sugar, with salt and cream tarter; bake twenty minutes in pan 
of hot water; serve with whipped cream. 



130 PUDINGS AND DESSERTS 

PRUNE SOUFFLfi 

Mrs. G. E. Seybolt. 
% pound stewed prunes 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

yolks 3 eggs whites 6 eggs 

Remove the stones from prunes, press through a sieve; add to them 
the yolks of three eggs slightly beaten with powdered sugar. Fold in the 
beaten whites of six eggs; turn into a baking dish; dust the top with powd- 
ered sugar; bake in a quick oven for five or six minutes, then send imme- 
diately to the table in the dish in which it was baked. Serve with whipped 
crejun. 



SNOW PUDDING 

Mrs. Quinan. 
2 tablespoons com starch 1 lemon 

1% cups boiling water 1% cups sugar 

whites 2 eggs 

Dissolved cornstarch in boiling water, add lemon juice and sugar, and 
boU in double boiler twenty minutes. When perfectly cold beat in the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs and continue to beat ten miuutes. Serve with 
any desire sauce. 



TAPIOCA CREAM 

1 cup tapioca 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 quart water 1 pint canned peaches 

Soak tapioca in cold water two hours; add sugar. Put peaches in a 
two quart pudding dish pour the tapioca over, cover securely and bake 
forty minutes. 



TAPIOCA CUSTARD 

Mrs. G. B. Johnson. 
% eup tapioca 2 eggs 

% can sweet condensed milk 1 teaspoon vaniUa 

2V2 cups cold water 

BoU tapioca twenty minutes with two cups of water. Beat the eggs 
with the milk which has been dissolved in half cup of water, and add to 
the boiling tapioca. Cook together a few minutes until thick and smooth. 
Add flavoring when done. 



SAUCE 

yolks 3 eggs vanilla 

1 pint of milk pinch of salt 

sugar 

Beat the eggs and add milk sweetened to taste, and cook in a dish of 
hot water; when nearly cold add vanilla and a pinch of salt. Set on ice 
to cool. 



THE MANILA COOKBOOK 131 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

Mrs. C. E. Smith. 
1 cup sugar butter size of egg 

1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon flour 

pinch of salt 

Brown sugar (being careful not to bum), add boiling water, butter, 
salt and flour. Cook carefully, be sure the flour is smooth. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Mrs. Gibson. 
1 cup sugar water 

% cake chocolate chopped nuts 

Mix sugar and chocolate with enough water to make a thick syrup. 
Chopped nuts may be added when cold. 



COCOANUT SAUCE 

Mrs. George W. Dunlap. 
2 cocoanuts 11/2 cups sugar 

2 cups hot water V2 cup cream 

Grate two cocoanuts, pour over it two cups hot water and let stand one 
hour; strain through a cloth. To this cocoanut mUk add sugar and boil 
to a thick syrup; add cream, beat well and remove from the stove without 
boiling. 



COCOANUT SYRUP 

Mrs. Kate Heath. 
3 cocoanuts 1 pint water 4 pounds brown sugar 

Grate cocoanuts and to the grated meat add water. Wash thoroughly 
and squeeze out. To the liquid obtained add brown sugar — the caramela 
is good — and boil to the consistency of honey, skimming frequently. 



CREAMY SAUCE 

1 cup powdered sugar 4 tablespoons fruit juice 

% cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

% cup cream 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add fruit juice, vanilla and cream. 
Place the bowl in hot water and stir until creamy. 



132 PUDINGS AND DESSERTS 

LANCA SAUCE 

A Filipino Friend. 

The seed coverings of the lanca, when boiled tUl tender and sweetened, 
make a nice sauce similar to peach sauce. 
Spices may also be added. 



LATIK 

2 cocoanuts 4 lumps native sugar 

Extract milk from the meat of two cocoanuts. Place four lumps of 
native brown sugar in a stew-pan, (use the brown sugar that is molded in 
the coconut shells), add a little water place over the fire until sugar is 
melted, strain thru cotton cloth. This process cleans the sugar. Pour the 
sugar into the coconut milk. Cook this mixture in a deep stew-pan, stir- 
ring occasionally, until thick enough to spread when cool. 



ORANGE SAUCE 

whites 3 eggs 2 oranges 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 lemon 

Beat whites of eggs until stif; add sugar gradually; then add grated 
rind of orange (if American oranges) and fruit juices. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



133 



FROZEN DAINTIES 



The iee should be crushed until fine and mushy. Mix three parts of 
ice to one part coarse rock salt before putting around can. The melted 
ice and salt should surround can, and not be drawn off as fast as melted. 
The contents of the can should be thoroughly chilled before freezing. 

Turn the crank continuously and steadily at a medium pace, until 
you can turn no longer, then remove the beater, scrape off the cream 
from the slides, pack down closely in the can. Put on the cover and 
throw a. piece of old carpet or burlap over the freezer. 

All ice creams are richer and of better body, flavor and texture, if 
allowed to remain in the ice and salt at least an hour to ripen. 



ICE CREAM 



Mrs. W. W. Barre. 



3 eggs 

1%. cup sugar 1 large cup water 

Vanilla to taste 
A fine foundation for various flavors of iee cream. To unbeaten eggs 
add sugar, slowly mix in cream, add water and flavor with vaniUa to 
taste. Freeze. 



PLAIN ICE CREAM (Foundation) 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup sugar 1 pint cream 

2 ggs 
(or it may be made with 3 eggs and na cream, the even half a cup 
of cream is a great improvement) 

Scaid the milk; mix the sugar, flour and eggs together and make a 
soft custard. When cold stir in the cream and freeze. 

Vanilla flavor — add 1 tablespoon vanilla, just before freezing. 
Chocolate Iee cream — add 4 ounces of melted unsweetened chocolate. 
Strawberry Ice cream — add one box berries crushed, or one can of ber- 
ries crushed. 

Peach Ice Cream — Add one small can peaches, mashed. 



FROZEN APRICOTS OR PEACHES 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
1 can apricots 3 or 4 cups distilled water 

1% cups sugar 

Drain apricots and cut in small pieces. To the syrup add enough 
water to made four cups, and cook with sugar five minutes. Strain, add 
apricots and freeze. 
134 



THE MANILA CQOK BOOK 135 

BANANA ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Beardsley. 
2 cans cream 5 large cups water 

5 eggs vanilla 

4 cups sugar bananas 

2 tablespoons flour 
Boil flour in water. Beat together eggs and sugar. Mix with cream 
and when cool add vanilla and bananas cut fine. Freeze. 



BISCUIT GLAC£ 

1 pint sweet cream 1 cup powdered sugar 

yolks 4 eggs vanilla 

Beat cream stiff; beat egg yolks, then cream with sugar and pour into 
tm. Flavor with vaniUa and freeze. 



CARAMEL CREAM 

Mrs. Kincaid. 
2 cups sugar 4 eggs 

1 can cream 1^/2 cups nuts 

vanilla to taste 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

2^4 cups water 
Boil one cup of sugar with one fourth cup water until a thick syrup. 
Brown, but be careful not to burn. To one half can of cream add two 
parts of water. Place on the fire and when it boils, add heaping teaspoon 
of cornstarch. When done, add the yolks of four eggs, weU beaten, with 
one cup of sugar. Remove from the fire and add the boiling hot syrup; 
stirring until all has been dissolved. Flavor with vanilla, and add nuts, 
finely chopped. When half frozen, add half a can of cream and the whites 
of the eggs well beaten. A most excellent cream. 

CATAWBA PUDDING 

1/2 package gelatine 1/2 cup boiled rice 

1 pint whipped cream % cup chopped figs 

1 cup pulverized yugar % cup chopped dates 

1 cup grape juice % cup cold water 

Soak gelatine in half a cup of cold water and melt over hot water. 
Mix with other ingredients. Freeze. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

3 tablespoons cocoa 1 tablespoon hot water 

Place cocoa in pan to heat (without burning) with one tablespoon 

of hot water. Wh«i the consistency of paste, add to plain ice cream and 

freeze. 



136 FROZEN DAINTIES 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Gibson. 

1 cup sugar chopped nuts 

Vs cake chocolate 

Boil together sugar and chocolate with enough water to make a thick 
syrup. When cold, chopped nuts may be added. Pour over ice cream 
when serving. Delicious. 



HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

Urs. C. E. Smith. 

2 ounces Baker's chocolate % cup milk 

2 cups light brown sugar butter size of walnut 

1 inch length cinnamon bark vanilla 

Melt chocolate over hot water; add sugar, cinnamon, milk and butter; 
cook until it wiU form a soft ball when dropped on ice. Remove the 
cinnamon and add a little vanilla. Serve hot, pouring a little sauce on 

each dish of vanilla ice cream. 



COCOANUT ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Sullivan. 
Add grated coeoanut to vanilla ice cream. Very delicious. 

FIVE-THREE 

Mrs. Sullivan. 

3 lemons 3 cups sugar 

3 oranges 3 quarts water 

3 bananas whites 3 eggs 

Preserved cherries or pineapple 

Mix the juice of lemons and oranges with the fine banana. Put in 
freezer with water and sugar. Mix thoroughly. When half frozen beat 
the egg whites to stiff froth and stir into the sherbet. Finish freezing 
and serve with preserved cherries or pineapple. 



GRAPE AMBROSIA 

4 cups water jnice 3 lemons 

2 cups milk 2 cups sugar 

1 cup grape juice whites 4 eggs 
% can grated pineapple 

Mix milk with water, sugar and fruit; partly freeze; add the beaten 
white of eggs and continue to freeze until hard. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 137 

LEMON ICE 

Mrs. H. C. Btunts. 
juice 4 lemons 3 cupg sugar 

3 cups milk 2 eggs 

Freeze milk and sugar; add lemon juice and well beaten whites of 
eggs just before you finish freezing. Very delicious. 



LEMON SHERBET— No. 1 

Mrs. Trowbridge^ 

1 pound sugar 6 lemons (juice of 6, grated 

1 quart water rind of 1) 

whites 5 eggs 

Add grated rind of one lemon to sugar. Add water and let boil five 
minutes. When cold add juice of six lemons. When partly frozen add 
well beaten whites of eggs. 



LEMON SHERBET— No. 2 

Mrs. Sullivan. 

2 cups sugar 4 lemons 

% cup water 2 oranges 

whites 2 eggs 2 quarts water 

Boil sugar in one half cup of water until the syrup threads ; beat the 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth; stir into this the thick syrup and put in 
freezer with the juice of lemons and oranges and two quarts of water. 
Freeze. 



LEMON SHERBET— No. 3 

Mrs. Seybolt. 
4 lemons whites 4 eggs 

1 pint sugar 1 quart boiling water 

Shave off the peel from two lemons in thin wafer like shavings, being 
careful not to get the white part. Put parings in a bowl, add the boiling 
water a.nd let stand ten minutes, closely covered. Add the juice and sugar 
to the water. (More sugar if necessary). Mix well, and when cold, 
strain into the can and freeze. The addition of beaten whites of two 
eggs when half frozen adds to the recipe. 



138 FROZEN D A I N T I E S 

FROZEN MANGOES 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
6 large mangoes 4 cups distilled water 

11/2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

Peel mangoes and cut pulp from seeds; cut in small pieces and mash; 
make syrup of sugar lemon juice and water, add mangoes and freeze. 
If desired add well beaten whites of two eggs when almost frozen. 



MANGO ICE CREAM 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 

6 large mangoes 2 cups cream 

iy2 cups sugar 2 cups distilled water 

Peal mangoes, out from seeds in small pieces and mash. 

Make syrup by boiling sugar and water fifteen minutes, strain, add 
mashed mangoes, cool and freeze. When partially frozen add beaten 
cream. 



MERINGUE 

Mrs. Mercer G. Johnston. 
white 3 eggs 2 tablespoons Highland cream 

3 level tablespoons granulated sugar 

Beat egg whites until thoroughly stiff but not dry; add gradually thc- 
sugar beating the while. Set this on the ice until thoroughly chilled, not 
less than half an hour. 

Just before serving, add cream, as you would oU in mayonnaise dressing. 
The ingredients must be cold. This is a delicious meringue to whip into 
cold custard or to serve dropped into iced chocolate. This quantity is suf- 
ficient for half a gallon of chocolate. 



MUSKMELON FRAPPfi 

Mrs. Odlin. 
1 small melon gelatine 

sugar to taste water 

Cut small melon in half. Remove the seeds, membrane and as much 
pulp as may be removed easily, cutting it into small pieces. Put seeds 
and membrane in sieve to drain and to this add sugar to taste, a little 
gelatine prepared in the usual way and a little water. Freeze and at; 
serving time fill the melon shells, which should be ice cold, with alternate 
layers of the pulp and frappe. 



FROZEN DAINTIES 139 



NUT ICE CREAM 

1 cup English walnuts, chopped fine 
1 dozen cherries, chopped fine 
3 tablespoons cherry juice 
Mix and add to plain ice cream, omitting vanilla. Freeze. Delicious. 



ORANGE SHERBET 

Mrs. Sullivan. 

6 oranges 1 pint sugar 

2 lemons 2 tablespoons gelatine 

1 pint cold water 1 teaspoon orange extract 

Mix juice with one pint of cold water; add sugar; stir in the gelatine 
soaked in cold water, and flavor with extract. Freeze. 



A DELICIOUS WAY OF SERVING PAPAYA 

Mrs. J. F. Craig. 

Pare and take out seeds, cut fruit in small dice shaped pieces, and 
serve very cold with the juice of a lemon or lime and a very little sugar. 



PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM— No. 1 

Mrs. SeyboU. 

% can grated pineapple 2 tablespoons orange juice. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Sugar to taste 

Drain off the juice from half a can of grated pineapple, mix witli 
it lemon and orange juice. Mash the pineapple pulp through a strainer, 
taking only what wiU go through easily. Mix the sifted pulp with the 
juice and add sugar to taste. Mix this with partly frozen plain ice cream 
and finish freezing. 



PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM— No. 2 

Mrs. SeyboU. 
1 ripe pineapple juice 1 lemon 

% cup to pint of fruit 
Pare a fresh, ripe pineapple, remove the eyes and core, then chop 
fine and sprinkle with half a cup of sugar to a pint of fruit. Let it stand 
for half a.n hour, then press through a strainer. Add lemon juice and 
more sugar if needed. Mix with half frozen ice cream (plain) and finish 
freezing. 



140 FROZEN DAINTIES 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM— No. 3 

1 quart of cream Sugar 

1 large pineapple 
Pare and grate the pineapple. Place in a deep dish and sprinkle with 
sugar. Cover and let stand three hours. Then press through a sieve. 
Stir into the cream and beat well. Freeze. 



PINEAPPLE PARFAIT 

Rosamond Lampman. 
% hox gelatine 2 cups pineapple juice and 

1 cup powdered sugar pulp 

2 cups cream whites 4 eggs 
SUced pineapple, whipped cream and maraschino cherries. 

Soften gelatine in a little cold water, then dissolve over hot water. 
Mix sugar and pineapple and add dissolved gelatine; blend thoroughly; 
then fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Beat until mixture begins to thick- 
en, then add cream beaten stiff. Turn into a mould and pack in ice. 
When ready to serve, unmold and garnish with slices of pineapple, whipped 
cream and cherries. 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET— No. 1 

Mrs. Sullivan. 

1 can grated pineapple 1 tablespoon gelatine 

or 1 quart fresh fruit 1 tablespoon extract lemon 

1 pint sugar 1 pint water 

Mix well pineapple, sugar, water, gelatine dissolved in hot water, and 
lemon extract. Freeze. 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET— No. 2 

1 pint grated pineapple cup water 

juice 1 lemon II/2 cups sugar 

whites 2 eggs 

To juice and pulp of pineapple add lemon, water and sugar. Dis- 
solve the sugar in water, add lemon juice, let it boU up and strain clear. 
When cold, stir in the pineapple and freeze. When partially frozen stir 
in the well whipped whites of two eggs. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET— No. 3 

Mrs. Hartford Beaumont. 
1 quart sugar 1 quart shredded pineapple 

1 quart hot water 4 lemons 

whites 4 eggs 

Boil sugar and hot water to syrup. Add pulp and juice of pineapple 
and juice of lemons. Add water enough to make a gallon freezer two- 
thirds full. When half frozen add the well beaten whites of eggs. Freeze 
with plenty of salt and ice. 



THE M ANILA COOKBOOK 141 

STUFFED PINEAPPLE 

1 large pineapple 1 dozen Maraschino cherries 

orange 4 teaspoons Maraschino liquor 

bananas 

Select a fine large pineapple and cut the top off smoothly. Scoop 
out the inside, taking care not to break the sides; cut the pulp into dice 
and put with it half as much orange; also cut as much banana as you 
have orange and cherries each halved; add liquor and mix. Return all 
to the pineapple shell; set this in a very cold place and leave until well 
chilled. If possible put stuffed pineapple into a pail and pack in ice and 
salt for an hour. Place the top, with its tuft of leaves, on the stuffed 
pineapple when it is sent to the table. 



SORBETE FAVORITA 

Jacinto Jobes. 

1 can plums (juice) 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

4 cups boiling water whites 3 



2 cups sugar 
Mix juice from can of plums with water, sugar, cornstarch mixed 
with a little water and freeze; when half frozen add egg whites stiffly 
beaten. 

STRAWBERRY FRAPPfi 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
1 can Cross and Blaekwell strawberry jam 

1 quart boiling water 

2 teaspoons lemon juice 
whites 2 eggs 

Pour boiling water over contents of one can of strawberry jam (any 
other flavor if preferred). When cool, add lemon juice and freeze. When 
almost frozen add well beaten whites of two eggs. 



TUTTI FRUTTI CREAM 

Serve plain unflavored ice cream in deep glasses and pour over each 
a combination of minced fruits in syrup, and last a tablespoon of chopped 
walnut meats. Pineapples, bananas, oranges, peaches or any kind of berries 
are delicious served this way. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Mrs. Kincaid. 

1 can cream 4 eggs 

2 cans hot water II/2 cups sugar 
1 tablespoon cornstarch vanilla 

Add hot water to cream, place in fire and when it boils, add cornstarch 
dissolved in a little water; after stirring briskly let it boil; then add the 
yolks of eggs, beaten well with the sugar. Place to cool and flavor with 
vanilla. When half frozen add the well beaten whites. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



142 



PUNCHES 



EGG LEMONADE 

Good Housekeeping. 

2 cups sugar 3 lemons 

3 cups water 1 egg 
1 bottle Tansan 

Boil water and sugar ten minutes; add the grated rind of one lemon, 
juice of three. Allow this to cool and at serving time add the egg, well 
beaten and the Tansan, poured from height in order that the mixture may 
foam. 

Serve with cracked ice. 



FRUIT PUNCH 

Good Housekeeping. 
2 cups sugar 1 lemon 

1 pint water 2 bananas 

1 cup Maraschino cherries 1 pineapple 

2 quarts mineral water 

Make syrup by boiling sugar, water and the grated rind of lemon ; while 
hot, dice into it two bananas, grated pineapple and cherries. 

When ready to serve, put a block of ice in punch bowl and pour over 
it the mineral water, and add prepared juices. 



FRUIT PUNCH 

1 cup water 1 quart mineral water 

2 cups sugar 1 can grated pineapple 

1 cup tea 5 lemons 

2 cups straberry juice 5 oranges 
1 cup Maraschino cherries 

BoU water and sugar to a syrup. Add tea, strawberry juice, lemon 
juice, orange juice pineapple. Let stand for half hour. Strain and add ice 
water to make one and one-half gallons. Add cherries, mineral water and 
ice just before serving. 



GINGER ALE PUNCH 

Mrs. Hartford Beaumont. 
2 dozen lemons, large 2 dozen pints ginger ale 

2 large cans pineapple 
Mix lemon juice with both pulp (chopped very fine) and juice of 
pineapple. Fifteen minutes before serving put large piece of ice in punch 
bowl and pour punch over it. Use no water. 

143 



144 PUNCHES 



PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

1 pineapple 2 cups sugar 

4 lemons 2 cups water 

Pare and grate pineapple. Add the juice of lemons and syrup. 
Mix and add one quart of water. When quite cold strain and ice. 



PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

1 cup grated pineapple 2 cups sugar 

3% quarts water i^ cup tea 

3 oranges 3 lemons 

1 cup grape juice 

Take pineapple and one pint of water and cook for fifteen minutes. 
Strain through cheese cloth. Boil sugar and one pint water for ten minutes. 
Add freshly made tea, lemon juice, orange juice, grape juice and two and 
one-half quarts water. Place in punch bowl with large block of ice. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



145 



PICKLES and PRESERVES 



CATSUP 

Mrs. Warren Smith. 
12 ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

4 green peppers 1 tablespoon grated nutmeg 

2 onions 2 tablespoons ginger 

4 cups vinegar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon mustard. 

Follow same directions as for making cbili sauce. 



CHILI SAUCE I 

Mrs. Warren Smith. 
8 quarts ripe tomatoes 1% tablespoons allspice 

2/3 cup salt 1 teaspoon mace 

% cup celery 1 tablespoon pepper 

1 cup brown sugar 4 red peppers 

1 quart vinegar 3 large onions 

Peel and cut up tomatoes. Chop the celery, red peppers and onions 
fine. Mix all the ingredients together in the flreless cooker kettle and allow 
it to boil twenty minutes and place in the cooker from eight to twenty four 
hours. To put in one morning and seal the next is often the most con- 
venient. Remove from the cooker, bring again to a brisk boil and seal in 
glass bottles or earthemwaxe jars with wax or paraffin. 



CHILI SAUCE 


II 




Mrs. P. P. Merrick. 


2 cans tomatoes 


1 teaspoon cinnamon 


4 large onions /,-. / ) put thru 


1 teaspoon cloves .- 


6 green peppers ^"^ chopper 


2 teaspoons ginger - 


6 table spoons sugar- ' . "■;' 


% teaspoon salt — >- 


2 cups vinegar 


% cup mustard seeds; 


Cook slowly two and one half hours 


CHILI SAUCE III 


2 dozen ripe tomatoes 


1 onion (cut fine) 


3 small green peppers or 


% cup sugar 


% teaspoon cayenne pepper 


2 cups vinegar 


1 tablespoon salt 


1 teaspoon allspice 


1 teaspoon ginger 


1 teaspoon cloves 




1 teaspoon cinnamon 



Boil all together until thick; then add vinegar; strain and set on the 
stove >. add salt and spices : boU all together five minutes and remove. 
146 



THE MANILA C OOK BOOK 147 

CRAB APPLE PICKLES 

1 quart Chinese crab apples 3 pints sugar 

Sjrrup in proportion as 1 quart vinegar 

follows : 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon cloves 

Carefully look over a quart, or more, of Chinese crab apples to be 
sure there are no wormy ones. Removing the blossom will generally disclose 
any flaw in the apple. Leave the stems on. Put in cold water, and bring 
to a boil, cooking until the fruit is tender, being careful it does not cook 
to pieces. Prepare and have ready a sjrrup. In making sweet pickles tie 
spices up in small bags, leaving them in the S5rrup. Place the fruit, a 
little at a time, in the syrup, and let boil slowly a few minutes, then put 
into a jar or large necked bottle. Pour the syrup over the fruit and have 
sufficient to cover. Let stand a few days before using. If fermentation 
begins, reboil the syrup, or if this does not stop fermentation heat all the 
pickles to a boiling point. Make small quantity at a time, because in the 
Philippines they do ferment quickly. 



CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Mrs. J. B. Bodgers. 

1 quart sliced cucumbers 20 whole cloves 
1 onion 1 teaspoonful tumeric powder 

1 green pepper 1 teaspoon mustard seed vinegar 

1 cup brown sugar to cover 

Slice cucumbers, onion and pepper, cover with water and salt and let 
stand three hours. Drain. Add sugar, spices and vinegar to cover. Scald 
fifteen minutes but do not boil. 



RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Mrs. Stuntz. 

3 or 4 large ripe cucumbers syrup as for crab apple pickles 

Select large ripe cucumbers. Cut lengthwise and remove the seeds. Pare 
and cut in strips three inches long and one and one half inches wide. Put 
into sauce pan and cover with cold salted water, place on slow fire and 
bring to a boU; be careful not to cook too long. Remove from the water 
and let drain. When quite dry, have ready a syrup as for crab apple pickles 
and place cucumber pieces in a jar and pour the boiling syrup over them. 
Let stand a few days before using. Watermelon pickle may be made the 
same way, using only the white part of the rind. 



148 PICKLESAND PRESERVES 

EGG PLANT RELISH 

Mrs. J. F. Boomer. 

2 good sized onions salt and pepper 

6 baked egg plants sugar to taste 

vinegar 

Chop onions very fine; mix with it the mashed pulp of egg plants. 
Season with salt, pepper, sugar and vinegar. 



GINGER PEARS 

Mrs. J. B. Badgers. 

8 pounds hard Chinese pears juice 4 lemons 

6 pounds sugar 2 ounces native green ginger 

Peel, core and slice thin the pears. Scrape the ginger and pass through 
the meat chopper. Let all stand a short time to start the juice and then boil 
slowly about an hour. 



PEACH PICKLES 

Mrs. Stuntz. 

(3 pints sugar 
1 quart vinegar 
2 teaspoons cinnamon 
1 teaspoon cloves 

Wash peaches well, let soak over night; place over a slow fire and cook 
until tender. Have a syrup as for crab apple pickles, and place the peaches 
in the syrup, let them come to a boil and bottle or put in jars. If syrup 
is not sweet enough, add sugar to taste. 



PEPPER HASH 

Mrs. J. B. Badgers. 

12 green peppers 1% pints vinegar 

12 red peppers 2 cups sugar 

12 onions 4 tablespoons salt 

Remove seeds from peppers; chop peppers and onions fine; cover with 
boiling water and let stand a few minutes; drain. Add vinegar, salt and 
sugar. Boil up thoroughly once and it is finished. 



THE MANILA C OOK BOOK 149 

PICKLE 

(Very similar to Indian Eelish) 

1 green papaya ginger root, small piece 

2 small green peppers garlic, small piece 
2 green tomatoes 1 cup vinegar 

1 small onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vinegar 

Chop fine, or better still, put through a meat chopper, papaya, pep- 
pers, tomatoes, onion, ginger root and garlic. Boil fifteen minutes or until 
terder, in vinegar, salt and sugar. When cooked, cover and let cool in its 
own steam. 

This same mixture, boiled in water which is then drained off, may be 
cooled and used £is a salad. Serve with any desired salad dressing. 



RHUBARB SAUCE 

Select tender stalks of rhubarb. Wash carefully. Cut off the green 
tops with a knife and throw them away. Cut the stalks into pieces about 
two centimeters long. Place in a double boiler and barely cover with cold 
water and simmer untail tender. When you think the rhubard is tender 
try it with a fork. Add one cup of sugar to each liter of rhubarb and boil 
hard for two minutes. Pour into a dish to cool. Some rhubarb is grown 
in Benguet. 



SPICED CAMIAS (IBA) 

Mrs. C. H. Sleeper. 

7 pounds fruit 3 tablespoons cloves 

5 pounds brown sugar 1 pint (scant) vinegar 

3 tablespoons cinnamon 

Clean fruit, cut stem ends, put in preserving kettle. Add sugar, vine- 
gar and spices tied in bag. Heat to, boiling point and cook slowly until 
fruit is dark reddish brown in color and the juice thick. 



SWEET PICKLED CAMIAS 

Mrs. C. H. Sleeper. 

May be made by following rule foi' sweet cucumber pickle. 
Roselle may be spiced the same way. 

Camias put down in strong brine may be used in place of cucumber 
pickle in sauces and salads. 



150 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

SPICED MANGOES 

Mrs. Warren Smith. 

5 cups mangoes 2 cups vinegar 

4 cups sugar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon cloves 

Tie cinnamon and cloves in a thin cotton cloth. Boil them in vinegar 
and sugar until it becomes a syrup. Peel the mangoes and cut the meat 
from the seeds in lengthwise strips. Drop into syrup and boil ten minutes. 

Place in cooker two hours. Then put in cans. 



SPICED PRUNES 

Mrs. Mary Weisendanger. 

1 pint prunes 2 cups sugar 

1 cup cider vinegar Clove and cinnamon to taste. 

Wash prunes and soak over night in water enough to cover well. Stew 
until the skins are soft, then pour off the water, and add vinegar, cloves 
and cinnamon to suit taste. 



SWEET PICKLES 

3 pints sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 quart vinegar 1 teaspoon cloves 

Any fruit, melon rind or cucumbers 

Sweet pickles may be made of any fruit that can be preserved, includ- 
ing the rinds of ripe melons and cucumbers. The proportions are as above 
for the syrup. Sweet pickles may be made of any preserve by boiling over 
the syrup and adding spices and vinegar. Examine frequently and re- 
scald the syrup if there are signs of fermatation. Plums and other smooth 
skinned fruits should be well pricked before cooking. 



TOMATO FIG 

Mrs. J. B. Badgers. 

6 pounds green tomatoes 11/2 cups vinegar 

3 pounds brown sugar 1/2 pound raisins 

Pare the tomatoes and boil two minutes in salt and water. Drain in 
colander. Add raisins and vinegar, cook slowly untU thoroughly done. 
Add sugar when nearly done. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 151 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

Mrs. StunU. 
8 pounds green tomatoes 1 teaspoon mace 

4 pounds brown sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 quart vinegar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Chop the tomatoes fine; add sugar and boU down three hours; add 
vinegar and spices, boU about fifteen minutes; let cool and put in jars 
or other vessel. In the Philippines, use halE recipe only, unless for a 
large family, as it ferments of kept long. Nice with curry and rice. 



DRIED APPLE JELLY 

Mrs. M. A. Rader. 
^ kUo dried apples 10 kalamansi 

6 cups water sugar 

Wash apples, soak in water until soft, cook, drain in jelly-bag. To 
four cups of juice, use four cups of sugar and juice of kalamansi. Make 
as any jelly. Jam can be made of apple pulp, if it is not drained too dry. 



CRAB APPLE JELLY 

Mrs. C. SulUvan. 
Chinese crab apples 1 cup sugar to 1 cup juice 

Wash well Chinese crab apples, cover with water and cook until soft. 
Strain through a thin cloth. To one part of juice take one part of sugar. 
Boil until it "jells"- The most delicious jelly that can be made in the 
Philippines. 



DUHAT JELLY 

Annie G. Darley. 
duhats, not quite ripe 
sugar, equal parts with juice 
lemon juice, 2 tablespoons to 4 cups juice of duhats 

Select the fruit when it is not perfectly ripe. Sort and wash. Add 
just enough water to barely cover the fruit and cook until the fruit becomes 
soft and the juice well started. Put the juice into a thin cotton bag, letting 
the juice drip through it into a porcelain or enamel receptacle. Let it drain 
for eight or twelve hours. Do not squeze the bag or the jelly wiU be cloudy. 
Measure your juice and an equal amount of sugar. Place the juice only on 
the fire and let boil thirty minutes. Add sugar and lemon juice, two table- 
spoons lemon juice to four cups of duhat juice. Stir until the sugar is 
thoroughly dissolved, and let boil ten minutes. Test it by dropping a 
spoonful on a saucer and allowing it to cool quickly. As soon as it will 
"jell", pour into glasses and set aside to cool. After twenty four hours, 
seal with paraffin. If the fruit is quite ripe, it wiU be necessary to boil 
the juice and sugar for thirty minutes. The time, from ten to thirty minu- 
tes, will depend upon the ripeness of the fruit. Juice which is overcooked 
loses its jellying quality. 



152 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE 

Mrs. J. B. Bodgers. 

1 grape fruit sugar 

1 orange water 

1 lemon 

Slice the fruit very thin, and add three times as much water as fruit. 
Let stand for twenty four hours. Boil ten minutes. Let stand again twenty 
four hours. Then add sugar pound for pound (Ipint equals 1 pound). 
Cook from one and a half to three hours. This is not intended to be very 
stiff. Lemon peel may be omitted. 



GUAVA JELLY 

From Philippine Education. 

Guavas 

lemon or lime juice to taste 

1 cup of sugar for 1 cup of juiee 

Take ripe guavas, pare in quarters and drop into enough cold water to 
just cover them. BoU until the fruit is thoroughly cooked. Skim and add 
white sugar cup for cup — i.e. one cup of sugar for each cup of juice. Let 
this cook slowly until the jelly is clear. Add lemon or lime juice to taste; 
simmer one half hour longer. Skim frequently, pour into wide necked bot- 
tles and seal when cold. 



MANGO BUTTER 

mangoes 
white sugar 
brown sugar 

Select ripe mangoes and pass through a sieve. Allow equal weight of 
sugar and mango, using half white and half native brown sugar. Boil for 
three hours. 



PRESERVED MANGOES 

5 cups mangoes 
4 cups sugar 
1 cup water 

Carefully peel ripe mangoes and cut from seed in lengthwise strips. 
Boil sugar and water until it threads from the spoon, then drop in the 
mangoes, and boil until they become waxy in appearance. 



THE MANILA CO OK BOOK 153 

PRESERVED MANGOES (SPICED) 

Mrs. Warren Smith. 
5 cups mangoes 1 tablespoon allspice 

4 eups sugar 1 tablespoon cloves 

1 cup water 1 tablespoon nutmeg 

Carefully peel ripe mangoes and cut from the seed in lengthwise strips. 
BoU sugar and water till it threads from the spoon, then drop in the man- 
goes and the spices tied in a cotton bag. When a fireless cooker is not 
used, cook the mangoes in the syrup from thirty to forty-five minutes or 
until they become thoroughly cooked and assume a waxy appearance. 



ORANGE MARMALADE No. 1 

Annie G. Darley. 
small yellow oranges 
sugar 
Take small yellow oranges the size of limes. Peel and cover with water, 
letting them stand all night. In the morning pour off the water. Take 
out every seed if you desire sweet marmalade; if you like it bitter, leave 
some seeds. Be careful to save aU the juice. To every cup of the fruit 
add three cups of water. Then to every cup of this mixture add one cup 
of sugar and boil until it jellies. In any jelly, put a little in a saucer on 
ice and don't boU beyond the jeUy point, if you want it clear. 



ORANGE MARMALADE No. 2 

Mrs. C. E. Else. 
6 oranges 10% pounds white sugar 

3 grape fruit 4 quarts water 

3 lemons 
Cut all fruit very fine ; soak in water over night. Cook two hours ; add 
eugar, and cook until stiff. 

ORANGE MARMALADE No. 3 

Mrs. J. B. Rodgers. 

1 dozen sour oranges 5 pounds sugar 

2 lemons, juice 'W2 pints water 

Pare the oranges without cutting through the white skin. Prick them 
and boil untU tender. Also boil separately the yellow peel until tender. 
Then shred peel with scissors. Chop the oranges, carefully removing the 
seeds and hard bits of skin. Boil the water and sugar to a thick syrup. 
Put in the oranges and the juice of lemons and shredded peel. Boil one 
half hour. 



154 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

PINEAPPLE CONSERVE 

Mrs. J. B. Badgers. 

1 pint chopped pineaple 1 orange rind, candied 

3 oranges, juice 1 teacup English walnuts, chopped 

Chop pineapple in meat chopper with medium knife. Add sugar and 
orange juice. Let simmer over a slow fire until the consistency of jam. 
When nearly cold, add candied rind and nut meats, also passed through 
meat chopper. 

(This may be colored a delicate green with Leaf Green Vegetable Paste.) 



PINEAPPLE PRESERVES 

Mrs. C. Sullivan. 

Pineapples Sugar 

Peel and cut into very thin slices fresh pineapples. Cover with sugar 
and let stand an hour or two. Add more sugar and cook until the preserves 
are thick and waxy. 



CHINESE PLUM JELLY 

Annie G. Barley. 

Made like Santol Jelly. The plums come in May or June, the santols 
later. In all these jellies, let the fruit appear above the water, for if too 
much water is put in, it has to boU away, and jelly is dark and thick. Seal 
tight, as jellies in this climate ferment even if covered with paraffin. 



ROSELLE JELLY (a) 

Wash the calyxes well, put them into a saucepan of granite ware with 
just enough water to cover the calyxes; boil until soft. Strain the mass 
thru a jelly bag. Measure the juice and add an equal amount of sugar. 
Cook until jelly is formed which will be in ten or twenty minutes. 



ROSELLE JELLY (b) 

Wash the calyxes well, add one liter of water to two heaping liters of 
calyxes and boil until soft. Strain thru a jelly bag. To each liter of juice 
add one-half liter of sugar. Dissolve the sugar in the juice, then cook over 
a slow fire about twenty minutes or until the sirup jellies. Do not stir the 
sirup while boiling. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 155 

ROSELLE SAUCE 

Use one liter of water to four liters of seeded calyxes. Cook to a jam, 
cool and sweeten to taste. 



SANTOL JELLY 

Annie G. Barley. 
santols 
sugar, equal parts with juice 

"Wash the fruit thoroughly. Cut up without paring into eighths, taking 
out the seeds. Barely cover the fruit with water and boU until the fruit is 
soft. Squeeze the fruit through a cloth. Take equal parts of juice and 
sugar. When measured, put the juice on the stove to come to a boU and 
put the sugar in the oven to heat through, being careful not to scorch it. 
When both are hot, put in the sugar. This process makes it jelly faster 
and gives a clearer jelly. Barely cover the seeds and boU, but be careful 
as the pulp bums to the bottom readily. Squeeze through a cloth and treat 
the seed juice in the same way as the fruit juice. The seed jelly will be 
lighter' than the fruit jelly. Do not cook after it jellies. 



SANTOL PRESERVES 

Mrs. Nicolas Zamora. 
santols 

lime (Yz cents worth) 
sugar 

Boil the fruit in water. Peel, cut up and take out the seeds. Put in 
water again and mix in half a cent's worth of litne for every fifty santols. 
Leave in the lime water one day, and then wash through two waters. Dry 
in the sun untU the water all disappears. Make a syrup of sugar and 
water. When it has boiled to the consistency desired, put in the santols. 



TAMARIND MARMALADE 

1 pint tamarinds To each cup cooked tamarinds 

3 cups sugar 

Shell tamarinds, cover with boiling water and boil one hour. Then pass 
through a sieve. For every cup of tamarind, add three of white sugar, then 
boU one hour. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



156 



CANDIES 



FONDANT 

1 cup granulated sugar i/^ cup water flavoring 

Put sugar and water in sauce pan and stir on stove until sugar melts. 
Remove grains of sugar around edges. Boil without stirring. Try in 
water. When it makes a firm but not crisp ball, set in cold water tiU you 
can bear your fingers in it.. Stir and beat — ^knead as it begins to harden. 
Put flavor in while creamy. To this can be added chopped nuts, cocoanut 
or candied fruits. 

Shape fondant into rolls and dip into melted chocolate for chocolate 
creams. Handle rolls of fondant with tongs. 



BEST CANDY EVER 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs 

3/^ cups golden color com syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla 

y^ cups water % cup walnuts 

1/2 cup dates or figs 
BoU sugar, .syrup and water until it becomes crisp when dropped in 
water. Beat the whites of eggs very stiff. Pour the syrup slowly into 
the eggs and beat until it begins to harden. Add vanilla, nuts and dates or 
figs which have been cut in small pieces with sharp scissors. Spread rather 
thick upon a buttered platter, and cut into squares. 



BUTTER SCOTCH 

1 cup sugar 1 cup butter 1 cup molasses 

•Boil all together until it hardens when dropped into cold water. 
Spread thinly on buttered pans and mark in little squares. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 cup grated chocolate 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup molasses 1 cup milk 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon glycerine 

Put all but the chocolate in a kettle and boil fast. When it will almost 
thread, add chocolate. Pour in buttered tins. Cut when cold. 

COCOANUT CANDY 
Cut the cocoanut meat very thin. Prepare a thick syrup, then put in 
the meat and let it boil until it is very thick — enough to make a candy. 
The pour into drops on a very thick paper. 

157 



158 CANDIES 



COCOANUT CANDY 

1 eocoanut 2 pounds sugar 

Put the milk of the eocoanut and sugar on fine. When it begins to 
boil add the grated meat of eocoanut and cook until meat is tender. 

Pour into buttered pans to cool and cut in squares before it hardens. 



COCOANUT PULL CANDY 

1 eocoanut 2 cups sugar 

2 cups hot water 1 lime 

Grate eocoanut and pour over it the hot water. Stir untU it becomes 
quite creamy. Strain through a piece of gauze, squeezing to get aU the 
cream. Take the eocoanut mUk and sugar, put on to boil. Peel the lime 
without breaking pulp and drop into candy. Boil without stirring until 
it thickens in water. Take out lime and pour on buttered plates. As soon 
as cool enough pull untU creamy. 



CREAM DATES 

Eemove the pits from dates and fill cavities with fondant. 

CREAM WALNUTS 

Crack English walnuts carefully so as to preserve the halves in perfect 
shape. With fingers slightly moistened with water or butter, form un- 
cooked fondant into small balls and press two pieces of the nut tog'ether 
on either side of the balls, flattening them to the desired shape. Lay on 
waxed or buttered paper. 



DjIVINITY FUDGE 

Mrs. T. A. Street 

2i/^ cups sugar 2 eggs, whites 

1^ eup karo syrup 1 cup nut meats 
1/2 cup water pinch salt 

flavoring 

Boil sugar, syrup and water till it forms a firm but not hard ball when 
dropped in cold water. Pour slowly about half of this into the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs, into which have been put a pinch of salt and 
desired flavoring. Put other half of syrup back on stove untU iLhoUs well 
again, then add slowly to the beaten mixture. Add the nuts ancFpJl' ' ito 
buttered platter. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 159 



FIG CANDY 

1 cup sugar y^ teaspoon cream of tarter 

1/3 cup water 1 pound figs 

Foil sugar and water until a light brown color. Then stirr in cream 
of tarter and take from fire. 

Wash and cut open figs, spread them on platter and por over them the 
mixture. 

Set to cool until covering has hardened. 



FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk y^ cake Baker's chocolate 

2 teaspoons butter 
After milk and sugar are boiling, add chocolate. Cook until it forms 
a soft ball in water. 

Set out until cooled ; then add vanilla and beat until creamy. Pour into 
buttered tins. When set, cut into squares. Peanuts or pUi nuts may be 
added, less butter with pUi nuts. 



CANDIED GRAPE FRUIT PEEL 

Mrs. W. A. B. 

grape fruit peel lemon or orange juice sugar 

After dividing the fruit into two parts, scrape pulp from skins, and 
cut each piece of peel into six pieces. Cover with cold water and let come 
to a boil. Pour water off. Cover with cold water again and let come to a 
boU and boil twenty minutes; four off water. Cover again with cold water 
and let boil twenty minutes; repeat this once more; each time press the 
water out after boiling. Then cook measure for measure of peel and sugar 
with enough water to make a syrup. BoU untU all the water is taken up 
in peel. Add lemon or orange juice before taking out of kettle; then place 
on buttered platter or waxed paper, expose to air several hours. Then cut 
in slices. 



MARSHMALLOWS 

Mrs. T. A. Street. 
2 cups sugar 1 envelope gelatine 

14 cup water 1 teaspoon flavoring 

Boil sugar and water until it forms a firm ball when dropped in water. 
Let the gelatine soak in two thirds of a glass distUled water for about 
ten minutes, then add to boiling sugar as it is taken from the stove. Add 
flavoring and beat until spongy and light. Pour into slightly buttered 
platter and let stand until next morning. Cut into cubes and roll in pow- 
dered sugar or cornstarch to prevent stickiness. Nuts, raisins, chocolate 
or ^nd of flavoring may be used. If native gelatine is used boil until 

dissolved. 



160 CANDIES 



PEPPERMINTS 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
1 Clip granulated sugar 1 pinch cream tartar 

% cup cold water peppermint to taste 

BoU sugar, water and cream of tartar three minutes, or untill it begins 
to thread. Remove from fire. Add peppermint to taste,. Beat it until it'' 
begins to thicken, drop on waxed paper. This may be varied for any dif- 
ferent flavoring or coloring; chocolate peppermints may be made by add^^ 
a square of chocolate to the sugar and water. 



STUFFED PRUNES 

Mrs. G. W. Gray. 
prunes chopped walnuts 

powdered sugar dates ; 

Soak the prunes in water about an hour, then pit them and fill ^h prune 
with one fourth teaspoon powdered sugar, some nicely chopped w^kuts and 
half a date. Shape the prunes nicely and sprinkle with sggar. '^hese are 
richer if made some time before eating. 



POP CORN 

pop corn 1 table spoon lard % teaspoon salt 

Into a large deep frying pan put a tablespoon of lard or butter and ^If 
a steaspoon salt. Heat pan and when very hot throw in a handfuil U)f» 
pop corn and cover. Shake pan gently whUe corn is popping. When com 
is all popped the fat will be gone. 



POP CORN BALLS 

bowl of popped com 4 tablespoons water 1/2 cup granulated sugar 
Put sugar and water in saucepan and place on hot part of stove. Boil 
until the syrup hardens when tested in cold water. Place pan where syrup 
will keep warm but not boil. Pick up pop com one by one and dip into the 
syrup and stick together, adding more and more until a ball is formed. 
Harden in a cool place. 



PUFFED WHEAT BALLS 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. 
6 tablespoons syrup 2 tablespoons butter 

4 tablespoons sugar pinch of soda 

1 box puffed wheat 
Boil syrup, sugar and butter together until brittle in water. Add 
pinch of soda. Pour over puffed wheat and quickly form into balls, like 
pop corn balls. 



r'»^ 1 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 161 

-■. " ' I^UFFED WhI^T brittle 



cup sugar ^ box puffed wheat 



Put sugar in Gmooth granite sauce pan, place ori%|^ve, and stir con- 
stantly until melted to a syrup, keeping it away from sifllnf pan. Spread 
puffed wheat on buttered tin and pour syrup over it. CanSq^^ made into 
balls if desired. Like candied pop com. 




SEA FOAM KISSES 

Mrs. G. W. Wright. , "!*J 

2 cups brown sugar ' 1 teaspoon mapleine \ 1", 

1/2 cup water 1 egg, white 



BoU together until they begin to hair. Cool a little. Feat white oL 
one egg stiff and add gradually to syrup. Beat all to gether until readw- 
to drop on waxed paper. ' 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



162 



WHAT TO SERVE WITH 
FISH, MEAT, Etc. 



WITH SOUPS 

With all clear soup : — ^grated cheese. 

With oyster, clam or lobster soups: — flight flaky crackers. 

With chowder: — hardtack or hard water crackers. 

With purees, like tomatoes, peas, lentils or beans :— small croutons. 

With fish soups : — large croutons. 

With rice soups, mock turtle, black bean, or oxtail: — hard boUed egg 
cut in thin slices and lemon cut in quarters. 

Serve also with soups either tender celery, radishes or olives; one or all 
may be used. 

WITH SHELL FISH 

With oysters or clams, cold, in the deep under-shell: — ^horse-radish, 

lemon or vinegar, long oyster crackers or brown bread and butter. 

With broiled oysters : — toast and brown sauce. 

With fried oysters: — cabbage salad with French dressing. 

With broiled lobster: — lettuce, French dressing, chUi sauce. 

With cold boiled crabs: — lettuce, French dressing, brown bread and 
butter. 

With deviled crabs : — ^tartar sauce, bread and butter. 

WITH FISH 

With boiled fish: — sauce Hollandaise, boiled potatoes, parsley sauce, 
cucumbers or lettuce with French dressing. 

With baked fish: — fried or plain boUed potato balls, cucumbers or let- 
tuce, with French dressing. 

With broUed or planked fish: — same as bakeQ fish. 

With small fried fish, such as smelts: — ^tartar sauce, light crisp bread 
and butter. 

With creamed or deviled fish: — crisp bread and butter. 

With plain mackerel: — fried mush or com bread. 

With plain cod: — boiled potatoes, parsnips, sour milk biscuit or brown 
bread. 

With creamed cod: — for breakfast, baked potatoes; for luncheon or 
supper, plain boiled potatoes. 

With halibut steaks: — for luncheon, cucumbers with French dressing, 
graham bread and butter; for dinner, the same with plain boiled potatoes. 

163 



164 WHAT TO SERVE WITH FI SH, MEAT, Etc. 

WITH MEATS 



PORK 



With plain fat pork: — ^beans, lentils, boiled cabbage and apple sauce. 

With roasted fresh pork: — apple sauce, boiled potatoes or baked pump- 
kia with ladies' cabbage, stewed kale or spinach. 

With cold roasted pork: — apple sauce, cabbage or lettuce salad. 

With hot boiled ham: — potatoes, apple sauce and any delicate cabbage. 

With baked ham: — an acid sauce, such as currant jelly, sweet potatoes 
or baked squash, spinach, Brussels sprouts or cabbage. 

With cold boUed or baked ham: — cabbage salad with French dressing. 

With broiled bacon, for breakfast: — poached eggs. 

LAMB 
With spring lamb: — ^mint sauce, boiled rice, cucuu.bers with cream sauce, 
new peas or asparagus tips. 

With cold Iamb : — ^lettuce and mint salad, French dressing. 

MUTTON 

With broiled chops: — creamed potatoes, peas. 

With breaded chops : — ^tomato sauce, potatoes au gratin. 

With boiled leg of mutton: — caper sauce, boiled rice, stewed cabbage 
or turnips. 

With baked or roasted leg of mutton: — ^brown sauce, rice croquettes, 
creamed turnips or Brussels sprouts. 

With braised leg of mutton: — brown sauce, surround with plain boiled 
rice. 

With shoulder of mutton, boiled or roasted : — ^boUed rice, stewed turnips. 

With saddle of mutton: — baked macaroni without cheese, French peas 
or asparagus tips. 

With roasted loin of mutton: — rice, either croquettes or boiled, scalloped 
or baked tomatoes. 

With cold mutton: — sliced tomatoes with French dressing. 

With Irish stew: — dumplings, stewed onions. 

VEAL 

With veal cutlets : — tomato or paprika sauce, rice balls, peas. 

With stewed veal: — dumplings, baked tomatoes. 

With fricandeau of veal: — rice, spinach or cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, 
peas or asparagus. 

With cold veal: — sorrel salad or mayonnaise of celery. 

With cold veal loaf, for supper or luncheon: — celery, lettuce or Wal- 
dorf salad, or plain tomato salad with French dressing. 



THE MANILA COOKBOOK 165 

BEEF 

With rolled steak or roulettes : — brown or tomato sauce, potato puff or 
potato croquettes, stewed carrots or string beans. 

With Victory steaks for dinner: — ^brown or tomato sauce, baked pota- 
toes, stuffed swefet chilis. 

With sirloin steak for breakfast : — French fried or baked browned pota- 
toes; for luncheon, lettuce or celery salad with French dressing. 

With broiled sirloin steak for dinner: — stuffed white or sweet potatoes, 
or potato croquettes, string beans, baked tomatoes, broiled or baked mush- 
rooms. 

With plain boiled beef: — boiled potatoes, string beans or browned 
parsnips. 

With brown stew of beef: — brown sauce, dumplings, baked string beans 
or stewed carrots. 

With braised beef or beef d la mode: — brown sauce and macedoine of 
vegetables. 

With filled of beef: — ^mushroom sauce, sweet or white potato croquettes, 
peas. 

With broiled fillet: — sauce Beamaise, mashed creamed potatoes, cold 
asparagus with French dressing. 

With baked or roasted ribs of beef: — mashed or plain boiled potatoes, 
or mashed and browned potatoes, string beans, cucumberss, lima beans, green 
corn, baked tomatoes or stewed cabbage. 

With sirloin: — stuffed white or sweet potatoes, baked white potatoes, 
baked squash, corn, tomatoes, spinach, or lima beans. 

With a pot roast or boiled beef: — cream horseradish sauce, boiled 
potatoes, stewed turnips or any of the delicate cabbage dishes. 

With cold roast beef: — cream horseradish sauce, aspic jelly, salad with 
French dressing. 

With creamed chipped beef: — com bread. 

With boiled corned beef: — cabbage, kale or dandelions, turnips, boiled 
potatoes. 

With hot plain boiled tongue: — raisin sauce, boiled rice, stewed carrots. 

With stuffed beef's heart: — mashed potatoes, stewed carrots, plain 
buttered beets, or browned parsnips. 

With stuffed and baked calves' heart: — ^roulettes of potatoes, peas or 
asparagus tips. 

With broiled sweetbreads : — peas, dainty rolls. 

With stewed sweetbreads: — mushrooms, peas. 

With baked or braised sweetbreads: — brown sauce, peas. Serve with 
any meat course one starchy and one green vegetable. Where a short 
service is required the green vegetable may be a salad, and this may bfl 
placed on the table before dinner is announced. 



166 WHAT TO SERVE WITH FISH, ME AT, Etc. 

WITH ENTRIES 

With croquettes: — peas. 

With boudins: — peas, cream or Bechamel sauce. 

With timbales: — cream sauce, peas, truffles or mushrooms, crips bread. 

With brown entrees : — brown sauce. With light entrees : — white sauce. 

With fish or oyster croquettes or cutlets : — sauce HoUandaise, or tart 
sauce, crisp rolls, potatoes either creamed, au gratin or in roses. 

With fish timbales : — cream or oyster sauce, tiny potato balls. 

Pates are served alone because they contain both meat and bread 
material. 

WITH POULTRY 

With broiled chicken : — cream sauce, waffles or tea rolls. For lunch- 
eon: — peas, guava jelly. 

With boiled chicken: — ^rice with egg sauee, boiled onions. 

With fricasseed chicken: — dumplings or boiled rice, baked tomatoes or 
baked onions. 

With panned chicken: — brown sauee, baked dumplings or com pudding 
or plain boUed rice, baked or fried tomatoes. 

With roasted chicken : — rice, white or sweet potato croquettes, stewed 
or boiled chestnuts, guava or crab-apple jelly. 

With roasted capon: — chestnut stuffing, boiled rice, baked sweet pota- 
toes, stewed celery, spinach, cranberry or guava jelly. 

With cold chicken: — Mayonnaise of celery or lettuce salad. 

With hot boned chicken: — sauee supreme, stewed chestnuts. 

With boned chicken : — ^lettuce, celery,, or Waldorf salad with mayonnaise. 

With turkey: — ^plain boiled rice, white potato or chestnut croquettes, 
baked onions or stewed celery, an acid jelly. 

With cold turkey : — tomato aspic, Waldorf salad. 

With guinea fowl: — crisp rolls, broUed bacon, hominy, stewed celery, 
currant jelly. 

With tame ducks :— walnut or potato stuffing, brown sauce, browned 
turnips or parsnips, green peas or asparagus. 

With unstuffed duck: — ^macaroni, browned sweet potatoes, hominy cro- 
quettes, stewed celery, currant or grape jelly. 

With cold duck: — aspic, chicory with French dressing. 

With goose: — potato or hominy croquettes, sauerkraut, apple sauce or 
barberry jelly. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 167 

WITH BIRDS AND GAME 

With squabs : — peas, asparagus tips. 

With pigeons: — rolls of broiled bacon, stewed celery, or lettuce salad 
with French dressing. 

With small birds on toast : — creamed onions, baked sweet potatoes. 

With broiled birds, quail or grouse: — fried hominy or mush, chicory, 
lettuce or celery salad with French dressing. 

With woodcock: — baked macaroni, lettuce with French dressing. 

With pheasants or prairie hens : — ^bread, horsesradish sauce, French 
fried sweet potatoes, lettuce or celery salad, French dressing. 

With rabbit, stewed or roasted : — sweet potatoes and parsnips, or baked 
squash and stewed turnips, currant or cranberry jeUy. 

With Belgian hare : — Hominy or rice, stewed celery or Brussels sprouts, 
spinach, acid jelly. 

With vension: — ^baked sweet potatoes or squash, cauliflower or Brussels 
sprouts, cranberry or currant jelly, salad with French dressing. 



MENUS ECONOMICAL 



Mrs. Chas. H. Smith. 



"Conversation is but serving: 
Give no more to every guest 
Than he is able to digest; 
Give him always of the prime 
And but little at a time; 
Give to all but just enough, 
Let them neither starve nor stuff, 
And that each may have his due. 
Let your neighbor carve for you." 



Scott. 



BREAKrAST 

Fresh Fruit. 

Oatmeal with Dates, Cream. 

Broiled Bacon served on Toast. 

Sliced Tomatoes. Pulled Bread. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON 
Cheese Sandwiches. 
Egg Cutlets. 
Sponge Cake. Pineapple Sliced. 

Tea. 

DINNER 

Cream of Celery Soup with Marrow Balls. 

Baked Chicken, Brown Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. 

Fruit and Nut Salad. 

Cheese Wafers. 

Apple Charlotte Cake 

Coffee. 

BREAKFAST 

Boiled Rice. Stewed Figs with Cream. 

Eggs cooked in the shell. 

Sweet Potatoes Boiled. 

Muffins. Coffee. 

LUNCHEON 

Boudins of Salmon with Tomato Sauce. 

Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 

Margarites. 

Tea. 

168 



THE MAN ILA COOK BOOK 169 

DINNER 

Tomato Soup. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Potatoes Creamed Peas in Timbales. 

Lobster Salad made with cabbage first boiled in clear salted water until 

tender, then put on ice. 

Wafers. 

Eaisin and Tapioca Jelly with Cream. 

Coffee. 



BREAKFAST 

Fruit. 

Fried Cold Boiled Rice. 

Cod Fish Balls garnished with Frizzled Baoon. 

Toast. Coffee. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed Baked Potatoes. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. 

Sliced Tomatoes. 

Ginger Bread. Tea. 



DINNER 

Cream of Lima Beans. 

Beefsteak Pie with Bacon and Mushrooms. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Olives. Radishes. 

Russian Salad. Cheese Wafers. 

Fruit Sherbet. Cake. 

Coffee. 



BREAKFAST 
Wheatlet. Dates. Cream. 

Dried Beef Frizzled. 

Fried Potatoes. Russian Com Cakes. 

Coffee. 



LUNCHEON 

Clam Chowder. 

Egg in Cream Sauce. Toast. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

Tea. 



170 MENUS ECON OMICAL 

DINNER 

Puree of Peas. 

Fish Turbot. 

Broiled Beefsteak with Mushroom Sauce. 

Hashed Frowned Potatoes. Spinach with Eggs. 

Russian Salad. Angel Pudding. 

Coffee. 



THREE MENUS A LITTLE MOEB ELABORATE 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit in Season. 

Oatmeal moulded with Almonds and Raisins served with pulverized Sugar, 

and Cream. 
BroUed Freshened Salt Mackerel with Fancy BoUed Potatoes and Lemon 

for garnish. 

Fried Chicken. Creamed Potatoes. 

Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Doughnuts. 



LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon. 

Chinese Fish served in Ramkins or shells. 

Chicken, Mushroom Patties. 

Potatoes Creamed. 

Baked Tomatoes. Brown Sauce. 

Salad Rolls. 

Asparagus Salad garnished with strings of Sweet Red Peppers. 

Cheese Souffle. 

Lemon Ice. 

Chocolate and Cocoanut Macaroons. 



DINNER 

Cream of Mushroom Soup. 

Shrimp Cutlets. Sauce Tartare. 

Quail d la Cendre served with English Bread Sauce. 

Fillet of Beef a la Bearnaise served on narrow Toast. 

Potato Croquettes. String Beans. 

Pickles, etc. 

Fruit and Nut Salad. 

Caramel Ice Cream. Angel Food. 

Coffee. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 171 



DINNER 

Caviar Toast. 

Olives. Salted Almonds. 

Salmon Croquettes. Sauce Tartare. 

Cucumbers. 

Creamed Sweetbreads in paper eases or silver shells. 

Roast Rack of Lamb. Mint Sauce. 

Green Peas. Creamed Potato Balls. 

Fillets of Squabs. 

Salad of Pomelo, Apples, and English Walnuts with Mayonnaise. 

Ice Cream Meringues. Cocoanut Cream Cake. 

Mangoes, Peppermints, Chocolates. 



DINNER 

Anchovies on Toast. Salted Almonds. 

Stuffed Olives. 

Clear Soup. Parmesan Cheese. 

rUlets of Fish, Garnished with Lemon and Parsley. 

Creamed Potatoes in Balls. 

Sweetbread Croquettes. French Peas. 

Fillet of Beef. 

Potatoes Scalloped. 

Cheese and Mushrooms in green Peppers. 

Lemon Ice. 

Wild Duck. Wardorf Salad. 

Cheese Straws. 

VaniUa Ice Cream. Hot Chocolate Sauce. 

Almond Cream Cake. 

Fruits. Candy. 

Coffee. 



BREAKFAST 

Native Oranges cut up and sugared. 

Panipig with Cocoanut MUk. 

Poached Eggs on toast. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Batter Cakes and Coffee. 

(Panipig may be bought in the markets and is to be browned in the oven.) 



DINNER 

Tomato Bisque Soup. 

Fried Fish Cutlets, white Potatoes and Cucumbers with 

French Dressing. Olives 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef, baked Sweet Potatoes, Spinach. 

Currant Jelly. 



172 MENUS ECONOMICAL 

Salad, whole Beets stuffed -with Peas and Mayonnaise. 

Pineapple Gelatine. Cake. 

Mangoes. Coffee. 



DINNER 

Caviar Toast. 

Morgan Oysters. Wafers. 

Cream of Spinach Soup. 

Frogs' Legs. Dressed Cucumbers. 

Ham Mouss6. Cream Sauce. 

Roast Wild Duck. Creamed Onions. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Grape Fruit Sherbet. 

Tomato and Bread Salad with Mayonnaise. 

Mango Ice Cream. 

Coffee. 



DINNER 

Anchovy Toast. 

Mutton Broth with Barley. 

Clam Croquettes. 

Cheese Fondu in Ramikins. 

Roast Fillet of Beef. Browned Potatoes. 

Spinach in Egg Baskets. 

Salad, Beets filled with new Carrots, French Dressing. 

Cafe Frappe. 

Cheese. Toasted Biscuits. 



LUNCHEON 

Grape Fruit (Pomelo). 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Mushrooms in Potato Ramikins. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. Green Peppers stuffed with Cauliflower. 

Banana and Peanut Salad. 

Orange Sherbet. 

Chocolate. 



LUNCHEON 
Shredded Pineapple mixed with Cherries, Bananas, Lemon Juice. Served 

in Pineapple. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Sweet Bread Croquettes. Rolls. 

Turkey Cutlets. Creamed Trimmed Celery. 

Grape Fruit and Walnut Salad. 

Gelatine Fruit Pudding. 



THE MANIL A COOKBOOK 173 

ELEVEN O'CLOCK BREAKFAST 

Orange, Pineapple and Maraschino Cherries in Orange Cups. 

Clam Cocktails. 

Fried Fish and Tartar Sauce. 

Lamb Chops. Green Peas. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Waffles. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 

ELEVEN O'CLOCK BREAKFAST 

Papaya. 

Morgan Oysters. Cocktails in Lemigj Cups. 

Broiled Chicken. Beets filled with Green Peas. 

Hot Cakes. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



SIMPLE FAMILY DINNERS 

Chicken and Rice Soup. 

Boiled Ham with Raisin Sauce. 

Boiled Potatoes. Creamed Turnips. 

Cold Slaw Salad with Cooked Dressing. 

Chocolate Blanc-mange with Whipped Cream. 

Plain White Cake. 

Coffpe, Fruits, Nuts. 



Soup with Croutons. 

Chicken Curried with Rice. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 

Lettuce with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Cornstarch Pudding with a Circle of Canned Fruit, Peaches or Pears 

around it. 



THE FOLLOWING MENU FOR A NEW YEAR'S DINNER TOOK 

A PRIZE IN A MENU CONTEST 

Caviar Tartlets. 

Blue Points on Half Shell, Celery Sticks. 

Chicken a la Reine. 

Bread Sticks, Salted Almonds. 

Baked Whitefish, Sliced Cucumbers. 

Roast Wild Turkey, Currant Jelly. 

Baked Potatoes, Asparagus with Drawn Butter. 

Orange Sherbet. 

Mayonnaise of Shrimps. 

Pumpkin Pie, Baked Apple Dumpling. 

Cream Sauce. 



174 MENUS ECONOMICAL 

DINNER 

Caviar on Toast. 

Consomme with Mushrooms. 

Baked Frogs' Legs. Potatoes. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef. Currant JeUy. 

Baked Potatoes. Spinach. 

Fruit Sherbet. 

Roast Pheasant. Potato Balls. 

Beet and Green Pea Salad. 
Nesselrode Pudding. "* Coffee. 



LUNCHEON - 

Grape Fruit. 

Fish Jelly. Rice Croquettes. 

Braised Sweetbreads. Creamed Artichokes. 

Orange Sherbet. Fried Chicken. 

Potato Chips. French Peas. 

Roman Salad. Toasted Crackers. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Coffee. 



DINNER 

Anchovy Toast. 

Clear Soup. Vienna Rolls. 

Baked Fish. Mushroom Sauce. 

Sweetbread Patties. 

Artichokes with Mayonnaise. 

Roast Turkey and Boiled English Ham. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Sweet Potato Cakes. 

Rice Birds. 

Vegetable Salad in Tomatoes, with Cheese Souffld. 

Chocolate Cream Puddiog. 

Caramel Ice or Cream with Hot Sauce. 



DINNER 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

Cold Fish garnished a la Salade. 

Cucumbers stuffed with Chicken and Olives. 

Fillet of Beef. 

Potato Balls. Creamed Celerj'. 

Roman Punch, 

Snipe and Jelly (currant). 

Pomeloes and Walnut Salad, with Cream Cheese Balls. 

Coffee Ice Cream. Fruit. 

Coffee. 



THE MANIL A COOKBOOK 175 

DINNER 

Oyster Canapes. Duchess Consomme. 

Lobster in Casserole. 

Boiled Stuffed Chicken. Riced Potatoes. 

Creamed Cauliflower. 

Roast Wild Duck. Currant Jelly. 

Tomatoes with Mayonnaise. 

Pear Ice Cream. Cake. 

Coffee. 



BREAKFAST 

Iced Mangoes. 

Oatmeal or Grapenuts. 

Chops and Creamed Potatoes. 

Eggs to Order. Popovers. 

Hot Cakes. Coffee. 



BREAKFAST 

Iced Pomeloes. Breakfast Food. 

Fish Balls. French Toast. 

Hot Waffles. Tea or Coffee. 



LUNCHEON 

Iced Grapefruit. 

Bouillon. 

Frogs' Legs. 

Chops and French Peas. 

Wild Pigeon and Asparagus Salad. 

Pistachio Ice Cream. 

Angel Cake. 



LUNCHEON 

Oranges. 

Cream of Clams. 

Fish Cutlets. Cucumbers. 

Eggs a la Reine. Deviled Chicken. 

French Peas. 

Cheese Straws. Shrimp Salad. 

Gateau St. Honore. 

Fruit. 



176 MENUS ECONOMICAL 

LUNCHEON 

Orange Baskets with Orange and Maraschino Cherries, served very cold. 

Bouillon in Cups. Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Chicken Croquettes served on Potato Straws. 

French Peas. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Breast of Snipe on Toast. Banana Salad, Chip Potatoes. 

Caramel Pudding. 

Coffee. 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 



Principle of fireless cooking. "The principle of flreless cooking is 
merely retaining the heat by insulation, just as cold is retained in ice box 
or refrigerator by insulation. Ordinarily we heat food to the boiling 
point and then leave it over the fire or in the oven to keep it at a cooking 
degree of heat, and to do this, on account of radiation, we must keep on 
supplying heat. 

When cooking in a flreless cooker, the insulation retains all the heat, 
thus maintaining a cooking temperature without adding more heat. Herein 
lies the economy of fuel. For things requiring long cooking, a fireless will 
save three fourths of the gas, wood or coal used in a kitchen range." 

Advantages of fireless cooking. Economy of fuel, space on stove, 
effort, utensils, food materials and flavor. It takes away the necessity 
of staying in kitchen to watch fire or food, food can be prepared hours 
before serving and still be hot without being dried up. Utensils are easier 
to clean because does not dry or burn on them. Absence Of heat and 
odors in kitchen are another advantage. 

Buying a flreless. If possible, buy cooker of good make, with closely 
fitted lids, and provided with tubes or valves for escape of steam. With 
flreless be sure to get Book of Directions for that particular make and 
Recipe Book. 

Home made fireless. A good flreless may be made at home out of a 
milk or soap box, one or two pails or kettles with tight covers, and some 
hay or excelsior. An old ice box, if not too large, is very good. Put cover 
on hinges and add a hasp to keep cover tight. The box should be from two to 
five inches larger in every dimension than the utensil used. For packing 
use excelsior, hay, straw, paper, wool, cork, sawdust or any good non- 
conductor. Line box with several thicknesses of newspaper, pack bottom 
with firm layer of insulating material not less than three or four inches. 
Set utensil in middle of space and pack around it, very tightly, until level 
with top of kettle. Make a cushion, like a small mattress, four inches 
thick and large enough to flU up of box. The packing will retain its shape 
better if a cylinder that loosely fits the utensil is made of pliable cardboard. 
Make a cloth lining of heavy unbleached muslin, one piece one inch or 
more larger than top of box, with hole in center one inch less than dia- 
meter of vessel, second piece an inch more in width than the vessel is high 
and long enough to make cylinder around vessel; third piece round and 
an inch greater in diameter than vessel used. Form cylinder of straight 
piece, and stitch; add bottom round piece and fit other end of cylinder 
to center hole of top piece. This lining should fit snugly to packing; turn 
in edges and tack to box, about four inches below top, so that when cushion 
is placed on top of vessel, the cover fits tightly. 

177 



178 THE FIRELESS COOKER 

General Directions for Use. 

Clean and dry cooker carefully after each use, air it in sun often. 

Metal radiators heat more quickly than soapstone and also cool more 
quickly. 

A small amount of food cools more quickly than a large amount. 

Radiators should be hot enough to brown a sprinkle of flour. 

Food is put in vessel and cover fastened tightly until thoroughly 
heated thro, then placed in fireless with hot radiators without being opened. 

THE COLD-PACK METHOD OF CANNING. 

The cold-pack method is considered better than the hot-pack method 
and is being used in most domestic science schools and in the homes of 
progressive housekeepers in the United States. In the hot-pack method 
there is always danger that germs may be introduced on spoons, in jars 
or through exposure to the air. If such germs are introduced the result 
is spoilage through working. Such vegetables as corn, peas, and beans 
are very difficult to keep by the hot-pack method. 

A home made outfit for cold-pack canning: — 

A vessel to hold the jars or cans. This vessel should have a tight- 
fitting cover. Provide a false bottom of wood or a wire rack to allow a 
free circulation of water under the jars. The wood bottom may be of 
perforated boards or of strips of bamboo woven together. This cold-pack 
process consists mainly of subjecting the filled jars to the heat or steam 
of boiling water for a prescribed length of time. The process of removing 
the jars from the sterilizer may be made less difficult by using a jar lifter. 
A very convenient lifter may be made from a pan-cake turner. Bend the 
blade until it is at right angle to the handle. The upturned portion of the 
blade should be about seven centimeters long. To use, slip the upturned 
blade under the bottom of the jar and lift straight up. 

Jars. — All types of jars that seal perfectly may be used. Glass jars 
may be used indefinitely, but new rubbers should be used each time. Be 
sure that no jar is defective.. Test jars, using the same methods that was 
used in the hot-pack method. 

Blanching. — Blanching is important with vegetables and many fruits. 
It consists of plunging them into boiling water for a short time. Spinach 
and other greens should be blanched in steam. To do this place them in 
an ordinary steamer, or suspend them in a tightly closed vessel above boil- 
ing water. 

Blanching should be followed by the cold dip or plunging into cold 
water after removal from the hot water. Blanching removes strong flavors 
and odors. It also causes shrinkage so that a larger quantity may be pack- 
ed in a jar. Cold dipping hardens the pulp and causes retention of original 
coloring. After blanching and cold dipping, the surface moisture should 
be removed by placing the vegetables or fruits between two clean cloths 
or by exposure to the sun. 



_ THE MANIL A COOKBOOK 179 

Directions for Cold-pack Method. 

1. Select sound vegetables and fruits. (If possible can them the 
same day they are picked.) Wash, clean and prepare them. 

2. Have ready o nthe stove a kettle of boiling water. 

2. Have ready on the stove a kettle of boiling water, 
dipping and blanching them in the boiling water. 

4. Put them into the boiling water. (See timetable for blanching.) 
After the water begins to boil begin to count the blanching time. 

5. The blanching time varies from two to twenty minutes. When 
the blanching is complete, remove the vegetables or fruit from the boiling 
water and plunge them a number of times into cold water to harden the 
pulp and check the flow of coloring matter. Do not let them stand in cold 
water. 

6. The jars should be thoroughly clean. It is not necessary to ster- 
ilize them in boiling water before filling them for the reason that in the 
cold-pack process both the inside of the jars and the contents are sterilized. 
Heat the jars slightly before filling them to avoid breakage. 

7. Pack the product into the jars leaving about one half centimeter 
space at the top. 

8. With vegetables, add one level teaspoon of salt to each quart jar 
and fill with boiling water. With fruits use syrups. (See syrup propor- 
tions for cold-pack method.) 

9. With glass jars use new rubbers. Fit on the rubber and put the 
lid in place. If the jar has a screw top do not screw up as tight as pos- 
sible, but use only the thumb and little finger in tightening it. This makes 
it possible for steam generated within to escape and prevent breakage. 
If a glass top jar is used, snap the top bail only, leaving the lower bail 
loose during sterilization. Tin cans should be completely sealed. 

10. Place the filled and capped jars on the rack in the sterilizer. 
Enough water should be in the sterilizer to come at least two centimeters 
above the jars, and the water in boiling out should never be allowed to 
drop to the level of these tops. Begin to count processing time when the 
water begins to boil. 

11. Consult the table for the sterilizing period. At the end of this 
period remove the jars from the sterilizer. Fasten covers on tightly at 
once, turn the jars upside down to test for leakage, leave in this position 
until cold then store in a cool, dry, dark place. Be sure that no draft is 
allowed to blow on the jars while cooling, as it may cause breakage. 



180 THE FIREL ESS COOKER 

Vegetable Canning in Cold-pack. 

Vegetable Greens.- — Spinach, all other leaves used for greens, and 
cabbage should be carefully sorted, and trimmed, the old leaves and coarse 
stems removed, and the greens then blanched in steam from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. After blanching, they should be plunged into cold water. They 
are then packed tight in cans. Add hot water to fill up the crevices and 
sterilize two hours. 

Boot or Tuber Vegetables. — This class includes carrots, turnips, rad- 
ishes, beets, and sweet potatoes. After being thoroughly washed and scrub- 
bed, they should be scalded long enough to loosen the skin. Plunge them 
immediately into cold water for a moment then scrape or pare off the 
skin. They may be packed in the jars whole or cut into cubes. Fill the 
jars with boiling water, adding one teaspoon of salt to the quart. Screw 
on the tops lightly and sterilize for ninety minutes. Remove from the 
sterilizing kettle, fasten covers tightly, cool, and store. 

Tomatoes. — Scald the tomatoes enough to loosen the skin. Then plunge 
them into cold water, core and skin them and pack them whole. Do not 
put any hot water in the jars, but add one teaspoon of salt to each quart 
jar. Loosely seal and sterilize thirty minutes. Tighten covers, invert jars 
to cool and test, store. 

Corn off the cob. — After blanching, slice the corn from the cob with 
a thin sharp knife. Pack the sliced com in jars, add a teaspoon of salt 
to each quart, fill with hot water and sterilize for three hours. 

Squash. — Cut squash into small pieces, blanch for ten minutes, dip 
into cold water, pack in jars, fill each jar with boiling water and add one 
teaspoon salt to each quart. Sterilize for ninety minutes. 

Pod Vegetables. — Such vegetables as lima beans, string beans, peas, 
and okra should be blanched in boiling water from two to five minutes, 
plunged into cold water and packed. Fill jars with boiling water, adding 
a teaspoon of salt to each quart. Sterilize two hours. Remove from kettle, 
screw on tops securely, invert jars to cool and test, then store. 

Fruit-canning in cold-pack. 

Fruits may also be canned by this method. Not all fruits are blanched. 
Sugar syrups are poured over the fruits instead of hot water. Different 
grades of syrups are mentioned in the directions. In making these syrups 
use three cups of sugar to two cups of water, the various densities being 
gained by shorter or longer boiling. 

Thin syrup is sugar and water boUed so that all the sugar is dissolved 
but the syrup is not sticky. 

Medim thin syrup is that which has begun to thicken and is sticky 
when cooled on a spoon. 



THE MANILA COOK BOOK 181 

Fruit-canning Directions for the Cold-pack Method. Soft Fruits. 
These are fruits such as ripe mangoes, pineapples, lanzones, and Benguet 
strawberries. Pare, peel, seed or stem as the case requires and pack them 
immediately in jars. Then fill with boiling thin syrup and screw covers 
on lightly. Sterilize sixteen minutes, remove from the sterilizing kettle, 
tighten covers, invert jars, to cool and test for leakage, wrap in paper and 
store in a cool, dry, dark place. 

Note. — Remove the outside skin of lanzones, separate the fruit into 
sections, remove all membrane and seeds. 

Hard fruits, santols, Chinese pears, and other hard fruits should be 
blanched for two minutes. Plunge them quickly into cold water, core, pit 
or remove skins as necessary and put them up quartered or sliced. Fill 
the cans with boiling medium thin syrup. Put on tops and sterilize twenty 
minutes, remove, tighten covers, invert to cool and test, wrap in paper 
and store. 

Sliced oranges. — Divide into natural sections or slice with a knife. 
Do not blanch. Pack jars closely and fill with boiling thin syrup. Sterilze 
the partially sealed jar ten minutes. Remove, tighten covers, invert to 
cool and test, wrap in paper and store. 

Some Precautions. 
Care must be used in sealing. Mold is apt to develop if the sealing 
is defective. It is unsafe to keep jars in a damp place where the rubbers 
may decompose. Another thing to guard against is improper or inade- 
quate blanching and cold dipping. Care should be taken to follow the 
instruction on this point. 

Careless packing should be avoided. Vegetables and fruits should be 
packed closely in jars and after this has been done, the jars should be fiUed 
with hot salted water in the case of vegetables and syrup in the case of 
fruit. If the packing is not carefully done shrinkage may take place during 
sterilization. 

In canning green vegetables like spinach, it is important that the 
mineral salts and volatile oils should not be lost. Tor this reason the 
greens should never be blanched in hot water. The blanching must be in 
steam. 

It is important that vegetables and fruits should not be allowed to 
remain too long in the sterilizer. If sterilization is allowed to continue 
too long the product will shrink. Watch the time and follow the schedule 
as given in the table. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



182 



SUGGESTIONS 



Tour heaping tablespoonfuls make one gill. 
Eight heaping tablespoqnfuls make one cupful. 
Tour cupfuls of flour make one quart or pound. 
Two cupfuls of solid butter make one pound. 
Two cupfuls of granulated sugar make one pound. 
Two and one-half cupfuls of powdered sugar make one pound. 
One pint of milk or water equals a pound. 
One teaspoonful of extract to one-quart of custard. 
Two rounding or four even teaspoonfuls of baking powder to one quart 
of flour. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one cup of molasses. 
One scant measure of liquid to three full of flour for bread. 
One scant measure of liquid to two full for muffins. 
One scant measre of liqid to one full of flour for batter. 
One salt spoonful of salt to one quart of milk for custard. 
One salt spoonful of white pepper to one quart of soup stock. 
One tablespoonful of salt to one-quart of soup stock. 
One tablespoonful of each chopped vegetable to one quart of soup stock. 
One teaspoonful of extract to one loaf of plain cake. 
The metric system of weights and measures is used in the Philippines. 
Our kilogram equals two and one fifth pounds. 

One liter, dry measure, is a little less than a quart; liquid measure a 
little more. 

One ganta (rice etc.) equals three liters. 25 gantas equal one eavto. 

Never pierce meats while cooking if you would have the best flavor. 

Where the word milk is used in the recipes, remember that it means 
the evaporated cream diluted to the consistency of milk — one part of cream 
to two parts of water. 

Lemons may be kept for a long time, indefinitely, in fact, by keeping 
them under glass. If laid on a flat surface and covered with a goblet they 
will neither mold nor dry up. It is said that they can be preserved in this 
way even for six months. 

Cocoanut milk may be obtained by grating the eocoanut and squeezing 
the pulp. After thoroguhly squeezing add water, and squeeze again. After 
all the juice seems to have been extracted, strain and use as milk. This is 
very good for custards and all forms of dessert, for which milk is desired. 
Must be used immediately after being prepared as it sours very quickly. 

To remove mildew rub common yellow soap on the damaged spot and 
stiff starch on that. Rub it in well and lay out in the sun. 

183 



184 



SUGGESTIONS 



Ink and iron mold may be taken out by wetting the spots in milk, then 
covering them with common salt. It should be done before the garment is 
washed. Another way to take out ink is to dip the spot in melted tallow. 

Scorch from a hot iron can be taken out by laying the garment in the 
sun. 

A little lump of camphor kept in the plate chest or silver drawer will 
prevent the contents from tarnishing. Lump camphor, placed in closed book 
cases, will prevent molding of books : placed under cover of sewing machine 
or typewriter will prevent rusting. 

Many people in the Philippines consider it unsafe to eat lettuce and 
cabbage raw. Some always scald all vegetables and fruit bought in open 
market before using. 

One of the things to be avoided with canned beans, peas and com is the 
development of what is known as "flat sour" The canned goods may show 
no signs of spoiling and yet be found on opening to be in this condition. 
It may be avoided by making use of vegetables that have not been gathered 
more than five or six hours. Blanch, cold-dip, and pack one jar at a time, 
placing each jar in the sterilizer as it is packed. Do not overlook this 
precaution in canning vegetables. 

Time table for Blanching and Sterilizing. 



Vegetables. 



Vegetables Greens 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Beets 

Turnips 

Radishes 

Sweet potatoes . . 

Tomatoes 

Green com 

Lima Beans 

String Beans .... 

Peas 

Okra 

Squash in cubes . 

Fruits. 
Ripe Mangoes . . . 

Lanzones 

Pineapple 

Strawberries .... 

Santols 

Chinese Pears . . . 
Oranges (sliced) . 



Blanching. 


Sterilizing. 


minutes 


minutes 


15 to 20 


120 


15 to 20 


120 


5 to 8 


90 


3 to 8 


90 


5 to 8 


90 


5 to 8 


90 


5 to 8 


90 


To loosen skin 


30 


5 to 15 


180 


2 to 5 


120 


2to5 


120 


2 to 5 


120 


2 to 5 


120 


10 


90 


None 


16 


None 


16 


None 


16 


None 


16 


2 


20 


2 


20 


None 


10 







,„;2,:^--. 



or 



the 



Librar y 



Of Flhcient Housekeepers 



La'iiea who take honest pride in maniigiBg^tlreir establi^-bments 

efficjfcntly ifhoul(f provHle fotne. of *&« Jt'llc^'f i? '^'orks for the'.'T:-; 
home libr.irieti. Theae books ooiitfeinpractically ail the inforn a 
ti'in tji^ wiil ever need— in c<>n.gji^si ape, ready for im /lediats 
refer^nre. "' 

Bo'Jt.on Ciiokiiiif Spl O'J Cook Bock-^'urinGr Ti.^(- 
Bostcn Cook B-jck I incoln - - - 1 -ni' 

Foods and Hou-^ehdld Manairtr.i'int— i )tie 

an'J Cooicy - - ■ - - - 2 

How to Live i.nii^-^Howarti 2 

S^:^r.'"t I'f Home Making — I'ij e - - - 2 
7he A.m3>-ican Woman's Cook K'"Ok — Klaekstonc 2; 
Iht White Hr.ust Cook JBook - .4 

' rf. GilleUe's <"'.-ok Br ok - - - - . "> 

Domt^tii Scien"- Prjrjciplei! and Application 

— Brilev 
Thousan''. \''>.-s < ''1* t.r« 
V'ersonaf Hyc;ioni> r.nd Hm 
Fond aad H<"i,thi- nii.i'P 
Pore F'oof a- Olm.' 
fond Problems - Fr 
A Study 'J FooiH--''v di'-:^ 



f and— Weaver 
" 'iflg — Lipf'ltt 

■ H';n"iinij;tiir 
pnd White - 



8;.- 
00 
40 
.60 
;50 
,50 

7.^ 
.30 
.5« 



A/a^c V mr Selectic^^ Tr,Jay 

1 TTc are roany new fottr . ^inn .'p boolis fa "le subject of 
t'.. >ri<fni'> Hi- ^flieeping-. We am t i hiv^ the b'st alwa^o :n 
ill^i-,(.. ..vt us Biip^ily your nf". 1... 




i^'" 



IICA1 
coMPANT-lMc 




Vf%:X^\\\e. Service ii-ill pkese ijou 
and the G^'^ u.-'li satisfa uou ' 



mLt 



