
924 059 630 735 




HOTEL ADMINISTI 
LIBRARY 

AT CORNELL UNIX 



THE GIFT O 

Mr. & Mrs. Carl / 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924059630735 



INDIAN COOKERY 

AND 

CONFECTIONERY 



{ 407 RECIPES 



By 

Mrs. I. R. Dey. 



HOTEL ADMINIST.7ATIUN 
5 JUL 1969 

uaRM 



Sole AgentSfe<£ 



pt^ice Rs. 4/- only. 



Published by : — 

D. C. Dey, B. A. 



/37^6 



Printed by : — 
Kishori Mohon Mondal, 
at the Naba Gouranga Press 
104, Amherst Street, Calcutta. 



PREFACE 

Human beings are social animals and they more or 
less love to indulge in some sorts of pleasures and to 
■give the same pleasures to their friends. Cooking gives 
them the opportunity to indulge in various pleasures of 
tastes and whenever any one of them tastes something fine 
he longs to enjoy it along with his friends. In this respect 
cooking is a fine art and we ought to treat it as one 
rather than as a means anyhow to fill up the stomach 
-every day, although the vast majority of men and women 
take the latter view in their daily preparations of food. 
If by using the same materials or by using a few others 
in addition which cost but little we can prepare a food 
more tasteful and at the same time more health-giving, 
then is there any reason why we should not do so ? I 
have even noticed in some cases that a preparation 
■would have been better bad a lesser quantity of spices, 
fats or some other materials been used. 

The present system of cooking in many provinces of 
India has lost its old reputation having fallen into the 
hands of some who do not regard cooking as a 
fine art and of illiterate and stupid professional cooks 
of different' provinces who having failed in every 
sphere of life resort to cooking as the only source of 
livelihood. They follow some stereotyped and defective 
methods in the preparation of every food. They do not 
and cannot understand that a different proportion or a 



( 2 ) 

different combination gives a better result. Cooking is- 
not a thing to be neglected in this way and it requires 
as much intelligence and experience as is required to 
master any other fine art. In some families, though 
rarely, we find such a good cook in the housewife of the 
family who maintains a very high standard of cooking 
and feels heavenly pleasure in feeding her friends and 
relatives. 

Cooking cannot be taught up to the exact details, 
only the procedure can be given. Every cook should, 
use his or her intelligence and discretion in the prepara- 
tion of food. None can be a good cook at once and it 
ought not to dishearten any cook if he, fails to prepare 
any food rightly at first. Varieties of proportions and 
combinations should be tried and it will generally be 
found that more than one preparation will suit the taste. 
The weights given in the book can be increased or 
decreased in the same proportion. It will generally be 
advantageous to read the whole chapter before trying 
any one preparation. 

Dhai and chhana are both rendered in English by 
curd. Therefore to avoid confusion chhana is written 
chhana in this book and curd means dhai. 

Curries taste better if the spices used are fried with- 
out oil or any other fat till their scents come out before 
they are pasted or powdered for use. Care should be 
taken that they are not burnt up. The properties and. 
scents of the spices are also lost to some extent if they 
are powdered and bottled for a long time or if they 
are once pasted and used for several days. The best 



( 3 ) 

thing would be to powder or paste them immediately 
before their use. Spices are pasted with a little water 
on what is known as a "Curry-stone". Ghee is also 
extensively used in cooking It is prepared by melting 
butter and boiling it for about five minutes till the liquid 
becomes perfectly clear. The impurities in the butter 
are thus burned up and the ghee is then strained through 
a clean piece of linen. Syrup of sugar is used in the 
preparations of nearly all the swests for which Indian 
Cookery is most famous. To prepare the syrup, boil 
2^ powas of water with a seer of sugar and when it boils 
add a little diluted milk and remove the scum that 
floats on the surface. Add milk in this way till the 
liquid is perfectly clear and scum no longer appears on 
the surface. Generally one powa of milk is enough to 
clarify a syrup of three or four seers of sugar. 

Indian Cookery is regarded by a foreigner as an 
indivisible whole and it is true to some extent. Cookery 
practised in the different parts of India e. g. Bengal, 
Orissa, the United Provinces, Madras, Bombay or the 
Punjab is the same in the sense that one method is 
followed. But they differ as to details and therefore 
produce foods having different tastes. Of all the different 
parts of India, Bengal is most advanced in the art of 
cooking. This opinion is shared by nearly all Indians and 
foreigners, and doubtless all will give the same verdict 
that the Bengal cooking is worthy of its reputation when 
they share the foods prepared by a really good cook. 

This book is specially meant for the English-speaking 
people living in or outside India and I shall consider 



( 4 ) 

that my labour is not lost if they can, with the help of 
this book, prepare and enjoy the recipes, the details of 
which are given here. If some of the ingredients men- 
tioned in this book are not available outside Bengal or 
outside India, the preparations requiring them may be 
dropped altogether and if they are of little importance 
the preparations may be tried without them. This will 
not hamper one in his attempt to learn the art of Indian 
cooking as such ingredients and the preparations 
requiring them form a very jmall minority. Nearly all 
the ingredients mentioned here are produced in nearly 
all parts of the world or are imported by them. 

This is my first attempt in this line and therefore 
I do not venture to insert the details of such artful 
preparations as that of a fish which tastes hot on one 
side and sour on the other. These are so difficult that 
even experienced and old housewifes often fail to 
prepare them. I shall try to give the details of such, 
preparations in the next edition. 

Thanks are due to my brother-in-law Mr. P. C. Dey 
M. A. who has rendered my versions into English as. 
I am almost ignorant of the language. 

Mrs. I. R. Dey. 



I MEASURE OF AVEIGHT. 

i6 Annas=i tola or bhari ( the weight of a rupee ). 

i6 Annas=6^ drams ( avoir, )=I75 grains. 

5 Tolas=i chhatak=2 oz ( avoir. ). 

4 Kanch-chas=i chhatai<. 

4 Chhataks=i powa=|- lb. ( avoir. ). 

4 Powas=i seer=2 lbs. ( avoir. ). 

8o Tolas=i seer. 

40 Seers=i Maund. 



ON COOKING. 

It is widely held among most of the Indians that all 
things should be cooked in earthenwares. Tastes, colours 
and other qualities of the fcods are not damaged, when 
cooked in them. Iron pots are also widely used but 
foods cooked in them become blackish in colour. Alumi- 
nium and brass vessels are used on account of their durabi- 
lity but oil, ghee and other fats make a compound with 
them which is not beneficial for health. Therefore it is 
advisable to remove the foods from them as soon as they 
are cooked. Specially sour foods should never be kept 
in any metal container. Dishes made of glass, porce- 
lain, marble, stone, earth, silver and tinned or plated 
iron should be extensively used for keeping food. Lastly, 
it should be remembered that foods must always be 
kept covered. 

Indian cooking consists essentially of four parts, 
namely :— ( i ) Browning ( 2 ) Boiling ( 3 ) Seasoning 
( 4 ) Finishing. 

Nearly all vegetables except only a very few are 
browned by frying them for a short while in boiling oil, 
ghee or any other fat before regular cooking is begun. 
Browning is necessary to kill the objectionable odours 
peculiar to the particular vegetables, e. g. onions, etc. 
where browning fails to kill the odour, it at least removes 
the excesses and thus makes the things pleasing to the 
taste. The distinction between browning and frying is 



( 7 ) 

-only a question of degree. When anything is browned 
in oil for a sufficiently long time to make it soft, and 
salt and other spices are added to it, it is fried and is 
ready for the plate. All sorts of Saks and a few others 
are not browned before cooking unless they are specially 
intended for frying. It is expressly written in the body 
•of the book wherever browning is necessary. 

Little need be said about boiling except that there is 
a tradition that items cooked on wood and dung cakes 
are superior in quality than those cooked on coal, gas or 
electricity. It is held that the former method is more 
beneficial for health- The explanation for this lies in 
the fact that some vitamins contained in the items 
decompose at the high temperatures of coal-fire while 
many of them remain intact at the comparatively low 
temperatures of wood-fire. Rut everywhere and specially 
in big cities the conveniences we enjoy in the regular 
and cheap supply of coal, gas or electricity are the 
deciding factors in discarding the idea of wood fuel. 
Wood-fire is better than coal-fire in making som.e prepa- 
rations, e. g. Sandesh, etc. which require slow heating. 
However, any oven or stove can be used whose heat 
can be regulated. In case a coal-fire is used it is some- 
times necessary to remove the pot from the oven at 
■intervals in order that its contents may not be 
destroyed. 

Seasoning is the most important of the four stages 
of cooking. Success in cooking depends entirely upon 
it. The process of seasoning is as follow? : Take the 
jiecessary quantity of mustard oil ( cocoanut oil is used 



( 8 ) 

in the Madras Province, and in all cases ghee is a better- 
substitute for oil ) in a pan and boil it till the bubbles 
die out. Then fry some spices in it and when the bubbles 
have again subsided fry the materials to be cooked in 
tbe oil till slightly brown if they are not browned before. 
Then water with ground or pasted spices is added for 
boiling. Browning and seasoning are thus sometimes- 
combined together, and seasoning may be made either 
before or after boiling. When seasoning is made after- 
boiling, as in the case of Dal when boiled Dal is added 
to the boiling oil with spices fried in it, it is called 
"Sambhar". Otherwise it is called "Foron". Various- 
spices, and in variety of combinations, are used, of which 
the most common are red chillies, mustard seeds, cassia 
leaves, cumin, etc., and the most common combination 
is "Panch-foron" ( Panch means five ) consisting of 
cumin, aniseed, mustard, black cumin and fenugreek, five 
in all. 

Before taking down a finishing touch is given by 
adding ghee and "gai'am-masalla", which consists of 
cinnamon, cloves and cardamom, in the entire, ground 
or paste condition. In cooking dal, curries, fish, meat,, 
etc., these must necessarily be added. 



CONTENTS. 





Page 


Page 


Preface 


r'olao of wheat 


i8 


Measures of weight 


Siddha Rice 


I 


On cooking 


Simple Ghee Bhat 




Contetits 


(boiled rice) 


6 



Rice 

Atap rice 2 

Cabbage and cauliflower 

boiled with rice 4 

Chhola, khesari and Peas 

boiled with rice 4 

Lau shoots boiled 

with rice 5 

Moog-dal boiled with rice 4 
Polao with anaras 

( pine- apple ) 6 

Polao with chhana 1 1 

Polao with curd 10 

Polao with eggs 14 

Polao with fish 12 

Polao with fowls (simple) 16 
Polao with fowls 

(alternative) 16 

Polao with meat 13 

Polao with milk 8 

Polao with Orange 7 



Vegetables boiled in rice 3. 



Pulses (dal) 

Arahar and Mash-kalai 25 
Chhola or Ghana (grams) 23, 

Dal with vegetables 27 

Kancha Moog 25 

Khechuri Badshahi 33 

Khechuri Bhuni 29 

Khechuri with chinre 32 

Khechuri with eggs 3 1 
Khechuri with ful-kapi 

(cauliflower) 33' 

Khechuri Golapi 32 

Khechuri with meat 30- 

Khechuri with peas 28 

Khechuri simple 28 

Masur dal ( lentils ) 24 

Masur dal (alternative) 24 

Moog dal 21 

Moog dal (alternative) 22: 



( lo ) 



Page 




Page 


Peas 


26 


Pani-fal 


45 


Sour dal 


27 


Potato with patol 


45 


■Ghugni 


34 


Sukta 


36 


Vegetable Currie 


s 


Fries 




Chhana and dhonka 


48 


Bara of Brinjals 


54 


Cocoa-nut 


42 


Bara of Chhana 


54 


Dam with karola 


46 


Bara of Cocoa-nut 


55 


Dam with Mocha 


47 


Bara of dal 


55 


Dam with Potato 


47 


Bara of Kancha til 


55 


Fulkapi chach-chari 


38 


Bara of mun or ol 


54 


■Ghanta ^vith kachu-sak 


3S 


Bara of onions 


55 


Ghanta with Lau 


39 


Bara of palta 


54 


■Ghanta with Mocha 


39 


Bara of potatoes 


56 



■Ghanta with Mula 

(raddish) 40 

Ghanta with Palang sak 40 

Ghanta with Peas 41 

Ghanta with Thor 41 

Ghee-Champa 43 

Enchor (green jack-fruit) 48 

Kulia with Mun-leaves 44 

Kulia with Patol 45 

Lau Posta 42 

Mocha dalna 43 

Mocha paturi 44 

Mukhi kachu 37 

Narikel-kumri 42 

■Ol-curry 37 



Bara of sweet potatoes 56 

Beans 5 [ 

Brinjals 5 1 

Cauliflowers 52 

Cocoa-nut 52 

Cucumber 52 

Dal or dhonka 52 

Flowers of sweet gourd 53 

Karola 50 

Mun or ol 50 

Mira chach-chari 5 1 

Neem leaves 50 

Potatoes with onions 53 

Sweet potatoes 53 

Turnip and carrot 53 



( II ) 



Page 



Eggs 




Amrit 


57 


Amritti 


57 


Bara 


58 


Bara with soup 


58 



Bara with green banana 58 

Barfi 58 

Boiled eggs 59 

Chhanch 59 

Chop 60 

Cutlet 60 

Dalna 60 

Devil 61 

Dhonka 61 

Dhonka with bananas 62 

Dolma 62 

Egg with meat 62 

Fry of eggs 63 

Fry with brinjals 63 

Fry with cauliflowers 63 

Fry with cocoa-nut 63 
Fry with flowers of gourd 64 

Fry with mun leaves 64 

Fry with patol 64 

Ghugni 64 

Halua 65 

Kulia 65 

Kopta t6 

Malida 66 



Page- 
Milk with eggs 66 
Milk-bread with eggs 66 
Neck-tie 6^ 
Omeletes 6^ 
Poach 6j 
Proleha 68 
Rasa-bara 68 

Fishes 

Arum stalks with 

hilsa fish 87 

Bara with fishes 73 
Bara with fishes and eggs 74 

Bara with roes of fish 74 

Bara with shrimps 73 
Bara with shrimps and 

cocoa-nut 74 

Bharta 78 

Chach-chari 88 

Chhanchra 87 
Climbing fish with 



cabbage 



90 



Cocoa-nut with shrimps 75 
Curry with crabs and 

pumpkin 86 

Cutlet of hilsa fish 84 

Cutlet of other fishes 84 

Cutlet of shrimps 84 

Dal with fish 72 



( 12 ) 



Page 
Dalna of shrimps and 

cocoa-nut yj 
Dhonka of shrimps and 

cocoa-nut y6 

Dolma of patois 8 5 
EngHsh curry with crabs 86 
Engh'sh curry with 

rohit fish 92 

-Fish boiled 71 

Fish bread 82 

Fish cake 82 
Fish curry with 

cocoa-nut 78 

Fish fuluri 74 

Fish jhal 89 

Fish kulia 97 

Fish paturi 80 

Fish preserved 98 

Fish puri 82 

Fish soup 94 

Fish sweets 75 

Fish with cream of milk 86 

Fish with eggs 8 1 

Fish with flattened rice 89 

Fry European 70 

Fry of fishes 69 

Fry of fish roes 70 
Fry of the intestines 

of fish 70 



Page 
Fry of lobsters and 

shrimps 69 

Guti-kabab 81 

Hilsa fish boiled in rice 72 
Hilsa fish roasted with 

meat 80 
Hilsa fish unfried with 

soup 95 

Hilsa fish with cocoa-nut ^J 

Jhuri 71 

Kabab 80 

Kopta 83 

Kopta of chitol fish 83 

Kopta of shrimps 83 

Malai curry 96 

Mayarani of shrimps 76 

Proleha 79 

Rasa 90 

Rasa-bara of shrimps 75 

Scorched fish 78 

Shoal fish with pumpkin 90 
Soup with Magura or 

singi fish 93 

Sour fish 97 

Shrimps boiled in rice 71 

Shrimps powdered 98 

Shrimps roasted 79 
Shrimps with gourd 

leaves 88 



( '3 ) 





Page 




Page 


."Shrimps with green 




Meat chenchki 


III 


jack-fruit 


92 


Meat chop 


"5 


-Shrimps with turnips 


91 


Meat chop with 




Tel-jhol 


95 


vegetables 


n6 


■Umarani of shrimps 


76 


Meat curry 


99 






Meat cutlet 


"3 


Meat 




Meat Dhonka 


lOI 


Amritti with meat 


116 


Meat Dopenaji 


103 


-Coorkits 


115 


Meat Dry 


109 


Fowl cutlet 


"3 


Meat Galantine 


107 


Fowl Dopenaji 


105 


Meat Halua 


lOI 


Fowl juice 


105 


Meat kabab with 




Fowl kabab 


108 


condensed milk 


108 


Fowl roast 


no 


Meat kulia 


100 


French cutlet 


114 


Meat korma 


102 


Fry of meat 


no 


Meat Toast 


109 


Fry of mutton fat. 




Mutton Breast 


III 


heart, etc. 


112 


Mutton Elajadimiar 


103 


■ German cutlet 


"3 


Mutton neck 


104 


• Ghugni of meat 


III 


Puri 


io5 


Italian cooking of 




Sour meat 


117 


mutton 


114 






Kabab 


108 


Sweets and Pas 


itries 


JCachuri 


106 


Adarsha 


161 


Kopta 


112 


Akwari 


158 


Livers 


104 


Amritti 


144 


-Meat bharta 


102 


Am-sandesh 


130 


Meat bread 


107 


Aska Pitha 


126 


JMeat chapati 


no 


Badshahi-bhog 


i65 



( 14 ) 





Page 


J 


I'age- 


Badshahi-roti 


126 


Golap jam 


136 


Balls of kalai 


167 


Golla sandesh 


-131 


Balusai 


'34 


Gopal bhog 


132 


Banana cakes 


122 


Gop chop 


161 


Barfi of almonds 


146 


Govdnda bhog 


162 


Barfi of chhana 


147 


Gujia 


135 


Barfi of cocoa-nut 


148 


Halua of e*gs 


163. 


Barfi of grams 


147 


Halua of ginger 


153 


Barfi of kheer 


148 


Halua of milk 


155 


Barfi of mangoes 


146 


Halua of moog 


■54 


Barfi of moog 


1 45 


Halua of papaws 


'54 


Barfi of oranges 


148 


Halua of raisins 


153 


Barfi of pistachios 


147 


Halua ordinary 


153 


Beshmi 


169 


Halua papri 


167 


Bonde 


139 


Harira 


162 


Cakes of ginger 


157 


Jhal bara 


128 


Chamcham 


138 


Jhuri bhaja 


128 


Chandra-prova 


141 


Jilapi 


144 


Clihana-bara 


142 


Kachuri 


119 


Dai-bara 


127 


Kachuri with asafoetida 


119 


Dal bhaja 


128 


Kasturo sandesh 


131 


Darbesh 


140 


Khasa monda 


169. 


Dedomonda 


164 


Kheerela 


15^ 


Dilkhush 


162 


Kheer joshi 


159 


Dugdha kupika 


163 


Kheer mohan 


137 


Fruits of kheer 


160 


Kheer of grapes 


156 


Gagan panthia 


166 


Kheer of tal 


156 


Gaja 


135 


Kheer ordinary 


157 


Gokul pith a 


168 


Kheer with oransjes 




160 



( 15 ) 



Page 

Lady Canning 142 

Luchi 120 

Luchi Radhaballavi 121 
Luchi with khowa kheer 122 
Luchi with Sweet 

Gourd 1 2 1 

Madanamritti 166 

Madhuramla-khanda 129 

Malpoa 143 

Malpoa with chhana 143 

Malpoa with kheer 143 

Manik bhog 167 

Manthak 163 

Methai of Kumra 1 57 

Mihidana 138 

Monohara 140 

Monoranjan of kheer 133 

Moog Samli 122 

Mowa of khai 165 

Murki of chhana 170 

Nankhatai 155 

Nawab bhog 164 

Nikhuti 165 

Nimki 119 

Nimki Patnai 120 

Pampar 127 

Pantoa 141 

Parota 1 1 8 

Parota Dhakai 118 



Page 

Patisapta 125 

Payesh 149 

Payesh of Cabbage 151 

Payesh of chhana 150 

Payesh of chinre 1 50 
Payesh of Juice of 

Date Palm 150 

Payesh ofmun 152 

Payesh of nalen gur 149 

Payesh of poppy seeds 152 

Payesh of sago 152 

Payesh of sweet potatoes 1 5 1 

Peraki 158 

Pudding of loaf 129 
Pudding of middlings 

(suji) 128 

Pudding of rice 128 

Puli cakes of moog 124 

Puli cakes, varieties of 123 
Puli Pitha of sweet 

potatoes I S3 

Rabri 170 

Rajbhog 137 

Rasabara 145 

Rasa golla 136 

Rasa madhuri 145 

Sakarpara 159 
Sandesh with Date 



sugar 



131 



( i6 ) 





Fage 


l-age 


Sandesh with kheer 


132 


Marmalade of pine- 


Sarachakra 


168 


apples 172 


Sarpuria 


13s 


Marmalade of white 


Saruchakli 


124 


gourd 174 


Singara 


120 




Sitabhog 


139 


Pickles and Sauces 


Solid curd 


129 




Sweets of cocoa-nut 


133 


Achar of Amlaki 178 


Sweets of flattened rice 


133 


Achar of arums 185 


Tal bara 


125 


Achar of brinjals 177 


Tawa puri 


126 


Achar of ginger 177 


Tenti 


161 


Achar of Lemons 180 


:Tikar shahi 


168 


Achar of mangoes 179 


Tilua 


155 


Achar of mangoes 180 



Jams and Jellies 

Am-satta 171 

Barfi of various fruits 175 
Jelly of green mangoes, 

etc. 175 

Jelly of pine-apples 174 
Marmalade of bel fruits 

(green) 173 

Marmalade of ginger 173 
Marmalade of green 

mangoes 172 
Marmalade of myro- 

• ^balans 174 



(French preparation) 

Achar of onions 177 
Achar of Plums or 

Kul-achar 1 76 

Achar of sajina flowers I78 

Achar of tamarind 176 

Amsi or Amchur 180 

Chatni of Alubokhara 181 
Chatni of green 

mangoes 183 

Chatni of papaws 182 

Chatni of pine-apples 181 

Chatni of potatoes 182 

Chatni of pudina leaves 182 

Chatni of pumpkin 183 



( 17 ) 



Page 
Halua of green mangoes 184 
Halua of green papaws 184 
Kasundi 178 

Mango soup 183 

Cold Drink 

Sarbat Lurki 188 

Sarbat of Bel fruit 186 

Sarbat of Black-berries 188 

-Sarbat of chhana 187 

-Sarbat of falsa 188 





Page 


Sarbat of Green 


186 


mangoes - 




Sarbat of lemon-juice 


187 


Sarbat of milk 


187 


Sarbat of water-melon 


186 


Syrup 




Lemon-syrup 


189 


Orange-syrup 


189 


Rose-syrup 


189 


Glossary 


190 



INDIAN COOKERY 

AND 

CONFECTIONERY 

RICE 

Siddha Rice 

( Rice husked from pre-boiled paddy ) 

Three seers of watet are required for one seer of 
rice. Heat water in a pan and when it begins to boil pour 
the rice, washed clean, in it and close the lid. After a 
few minutes when the boiling water becomes practically 
unmanageable it is necessary to let the surplus steam 
escape from the pan either by removing the lid entirely 
or by pushing it to one side. After about fifteen 
minutes pick a few grains with a spoon and feel if they 
are soft and well-boiled. When they are so, take the pan 
down from the oven and remove the excess whitish 
starchy water either by placing the pan upside down 
upon the lid or by tilting it on one side and carefully ' 
decanting the water out keeping the rice within. It should 
then be re-heated for a very short time to dry up the 
sticking moisture. Washing the boiled rice on a seive 
with water to render the individual grains separate and ■ 



2 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

non-sticky, as is often the practice with the Europeans, 
is not proper. It appreciably spoils the taste and food- 
value of the rice. 

It is the practice with the Bengalis to drain off the 
excels starchy water from the- boijed rice but it will 
certainly be a better practice to take the rice along with 
the starchy water, as it is rich with nourishing compounds, 
even though- the taste differs a little. 

We may note here that the vitamin contents in rice 
reside entirely on the bright brownish skin of the grains. 
This skin is entirely removed to give a whitish look to the 
grains when the paddy is husked in the rice mills. But it 
is not so 'wheii the paddy is husked in an indigenous 
implement called "Dhenki". Therefore rice husked in 
Dhpnkis are superior in quality to those husked in mills:.; 
But nowadays it is very difficult to find any rice husked 
in Dhenkis in the market. On the other hand Atap Rice 
are richer in vitamin contents than Siddha Rice as they 
are neither boiled before nor the skins are removed. 

ATAP RICE 

( Rice husked from sun-dried paddy ) 

Atap rice and specially those husked from the new 
corn in the early months of winter are very tasteful and 
possess a characteristic flavour. They are, of course, not so 
easily digested as the old rice, and cannot, therefore, be 
recommened for patients and those of ill health in 
general. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 3 

In this case two seers of water are required for every 
•seer of rice. The procedure is the same as in the case of 
the Siddha Rice. These rice are more apt to get over- 
T^oiled at the least delay than the "Siddha" quality. The,' 
excess water may be removed but it is better not to 
remove, it. To avoid the rice becoming pasty, the 
minimum amount of water should be taken which will be 
•enough for boiling them properly and yet not in excess 
to be removed. If in the middle of the preparation the 
water runs short a little more water should be added to 
prevent the rice from being scoi-ched. With a little care, 
aind practice, however, this becomes quite easy.- Slow 
(heat should be used in this method. 

VEGETABLES BOILED IN RICE 

Most of the vegetables, e. g., potato, brinjal, patol, 
"Uch-chhe, karala, beans, mun, sweet potato, sweet gourd, 
-green banana, lady's fingers, seeds of jack fruit, radish, 
carrot, cauliflower, olkochu, jhinga, and rnany others, and 
•eggs taste better when boiled in rice than when boiled 
in water. They are to be washed clean, peeled and cut in 
suitable pieces, where necessary, before boiling. If need 
be they should be tied in a clean piece of cloth. Unpeeled 
■entire ones taste better and are more health-giving. There- 
fore it is better to peel the potatoes after boiling. 
-Mun, ol and olkochu must, however, be peeled before 
toiling, otherwise the irritability is increased. 

Take the boiled things out of the rice with a spoon. 
-"Squeeze and rab them into a smooth paste separately. Add' 



4, INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

some salt, mustard oil, and a few fragmented pieces oF 
green chillies, if liked, and mix thoroughly. These can be 
taken together with rice. Mun, ol and olkochu should be 
mixed with powdered mustard and a few drops of lemon, if 
irritability be suspected. If vegetables are to be boiled with 
rice some extra amount of water will be necessary than, 
usual. 

CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER 

Take only the interior tender portion of the cabbage- 
and tie it in a clean piece of cloth. As it takes only a 
short time to be boiled di-op it into the boiling rice only 
a few minutes before taking down from the oven. Treat 
the boiled cabbage as before with salt, mustard oil, and 
powdered mustard if desired.- '"The same is the tnethod 
with cauliflowers. 

MOOG DAL 

Moog dal, after washing them thoroughly, should be- 
tied very loosely in a piece of clean cloth as they increase 
four or five times in volume when boiled. Then the bundle 
should be dropped into the rice when the latter start 
boiling. Mix salt and mustafd oil with the boiled moog 
dal, pressed to a paste, before eating. 

CHHOLA, KHESARI AND PEAS 

Wash cleanly and keep any of the dais moist under 
water for about two hours. Grind them. into a paste when 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 5 

"they are soaked with water and tie the paste loosely in a 
piece of cloth. Drop it into the rice when the latter start 
boiling. Mix salt and mustard oil as before. 

TENDER SHOOTS OF LAU ( Pumpkin ) 

Green tender ends of lau plant with leaves, tied 
■together with a thread, may be boiled in rice and taken 
in a paste condition with salt and mustard oil. They taste 
better if a little pasted posta ( poppy-seed ) is added. Posta 
•are to be pasted after keeping them moistened in water for 
•some time. 

Other green vegetables may be boiled similarly. 

The spices to be mixed with the boiled vegetables may 
be varied according to taste. The vegetarians hold that 
ghee^ preparations from milk and vegetables boiled in rice 
have enough body building elements in them. In fact, these 
•simple preparations, being not too rich in spices, do 
not tax the stomach. Too much spices should not be taken 
SLS they decrease the digestive capacity. 



POLAO OR SPICED RICE 

Simple Ghee Bhat ( boiled rice ) 
Wash thoroughly any quantity of Peshwari or 
fc)adkhani rice and dry them in the sun. Then fry the rice 
slightly with the necessary quantity of ghee in a pan and 
add the fried rice in a sufficient quantity of boiling water. 
When the rice are well boiled and at the same time tough 
enoiigh, decant off the extra water. Again heat a sufficient 
quantity of ghee in a pan and fry in it a little pasted' 
turmeric and some cassia leaves, cloves, srrtall cardamoms, 
cinnamons, pistachios, almonds and raisins, all entire. 
Pistachios and almonds should be ■ peeled, and cut into- 
pieces if desired, after moistening them in water for some- 
time. Then pour down the boiled rice over it^ add salt 
and stir the mass for a few minutes. Then take it down, 
from the oven. Ghee bhat is now ready. 

POLAO WITH ANARAS ( Pine apple ) 

Required : — Meat i seer, rice i seer, pine-apple peeled, 
and cut into medium pieces i|- seer, lemon juice |- powa, 
or more if desired, sugar ^ seer, ginger 3 tolas, coriander- 
seeds i|- tolas, black cumin seeds i tola, cloves ^ tola, 
cinnamon |- tola, cardamom ^ tola, saffron 5- tola, salt 4. 
tolas, ghee ^ seer, and water 4 seers. 

Method : — Make a saturated solution of the sugar and 
boil the pieces of pine-apple in it with the lemon-juice 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 7 

after seasoning them for about an hour or rnore with one 
tola of salt. Then boil the meat in about 4 seers of watet 
until the latter reduces half, to less than. Heat,, about :^ 
powa of ghee in a pan and season it by frying |- tola of 
black cumin, and then fry the boiled meat in the ghee after 
separating them from the water, till they are slightly browrj 
and do not stick to one another, Then add the water again 
and allow the whole thing- to boil. In the meantime heat 
on another oven about |- powa of ghee in another pai) and 
slightly fry the remaining |- tola of black -cumin, cloves^ 
cinnamons and cardamoms, all entire, in it. A few cassia 
leaves may also be fried. When the flavour of the spices 
fill your nose, add the rice, washed, dried and smeared 
with saffron, ginger and coriander seeds, all pa:sted, and 
stir till some, of the rice begin to burst. Then add the 
Ijoiling meat with the water to the rice, add salt and 
allow the whole thing to boil under cover after stirring it 
well. About 10 minutes before taking it down from the^ 
oven add the pieces of pine-apples with the sugar solution. 
When the water dries up, pour about one powa of hot ghee 
and stir to render the whole mass non-sticky. Polao is now 
ready for the dish. Always be careful to add hot water 
if at any time during the preparation water runs short in • 
the pan. This preparation and also the following ones in" 
this chapter must be made on slow heat. 

T 

ORANGE POLAO 

Required S^Rice'i seer, peeled oran^^es |- seer, orange J 
juice ^ seer, ghee I powa or more, sugar |- powa, cloves ■ 
-^ tola, cinnamon | tola, cardamom | tola, almands ^ powa,.- 



8 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECnONERY 

pistachios i chhatak, raisins ^ powa, saffron ^ tola^ milk 
condensed |- powa, salt i tola, water i seer. 

Method % — Fry the raisins, after washing them 
cleanly, in some" ghee, and then fry the pistachios and 
almonds peeled and cut in pieces. The raisins brown 
earlier than the almonds and pistachios, so they must 
be fried separately. Then take ^ powa of ghee more 
and fry the cloves, cinnamons and cardamoms, all entire, 
in it. When the flavour comes out, add the rice and 
stir constantly on slow heat till the rice begin to be fried. 
Now add the orange juice and hot water little by little 
along with salt and saffron, and allow the mass to boil 
under cover. When the rice are half-boiled add the 
fried raisins, pistachios, almonds, condensed milk, sugar, 
peeled oranges and |- powa of hot ghee. Stir the mass 
and allow it to simmer under closed cover on slow heat. 
Take down when the rice are completely boiled and the 
juice in thick. 

MILK POLAO 

Required ° — Fine rice i seer, pure cow-milk i^ seers, 
ghee |- seer, meat i seer, cloves ^ anna, cinnamon i anna, 
cardamon i tola, cardamom, big quality, 8 in number. 
Mace 1 1 tola, coriander ^ chhatak, cassia leaves i tola, 
white pepper |- tola, cubebs ^ tola, pepper with cumin 
seeds |- tola, raisins i|- chhatak, pistachios i chhatak, 
almonds ^ powa, sugar i chhatak, curd ^ powa, milk 
condensed j- powa, salt i chhatak, saffron -j- tola, water 
4^ seers, ginger ^ powa. 



' INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY • 9 

Method ;— rWash the rice in water and dry them up, 
"Then keep the rice in the milk for about i^ hours till 
they absorb the milk to the maximum. Then tie the 
swelled rice loosely in a piece of clean cloth and allow 
the excess milk to drip off. When the dripping ceases 
•spread them in air to dry up the moisture on the sur- 
face of the rice. Then smear the rice with ginger- 
Juice, saffron, the seeds of the 8 big cardamoms. A little 
"water may be necessary. 

In the meantime boil the meat in about 4^ seers of 
Avater till the latter reduces to less than half Then 
separate them from the water and brown them in |- powa 
•of ghee after mixing them with maces, coriander seeds, 
white peppers, cubebs, and peppers with cumin seeds, all 
powdered or pasted. 

Now boil i|- powa of ghee in a deep pan and take it 

down from the oven. Then make in it a layer of cassia 

leaves, then one of meat, then one of rice, and lastly 

one of raisins, almonds and pistachios, washed, peeled 

-and cut in pieces. Then make another series of the layers 

in the same order as before, and on the uppermost layer 

add the water in which meat was boiled and the milk 

along with salt. Now- allow the mass to simmer under 

closed cover on v^ry slow heat. When the rice have 

been boiled add the condensed milk, curd, sugar and 

the rest of the ghee with fragmented cinnamon, eard- 

-amom and cloves, all entire, fried in it. Then stir the 

-vyhole mass vfgorously to blend the ingredients. Allow ■ 

the mass to simmer again under cover for a few minutes 



TO -INDIAN. COOKERY AND" CONFECTIONERY 

on glowing charcoal or siny "other fire producing mildT 
heat. When no juice is left the polao is ready for the 
table. 

POLAO WITH CURD 

Required :— Rice i seer, tender meat i seer, ghee- 

■I powa, curd i powa, lemon i in nutnber, ginger 2 tolas^ 

coriander , seeds 2 tolas, pepper ^ tola, saffron -j- tola^. 

salt 4 tolaSj cinnamon ^ tola, cardamom -j- tola^ cloves ^- 

tola, cassia leaves 2 .tolas^ black cumin seeds |- tola, water- 
4^ seers. 

Method S^Boil the meat as before in water and 
then brown them in I chhatak of ghee after separating 
them from . the water. This water in which the meat, 
has been boiled is called akhni water. Make a paste 
of the juice of the lemon, ginger, coriander seeds, pepper^ 
saffron, and salt. Then heat some ghee in a cookings 
pot and ' rhake in order the layers of cassia leaves and 
black curhin seeds, meat, pasted spices, rice, and again 
those of cassia leaves, meat, spices and rice. Add the> 
akh'rii water on the topmost layer, cover the pot witb- 
itslid, and cook On charcoal fire or any other fire produ- 
cing gentle heat. When the rice are half boiled add. 
the -Whole of the curd and the rest of the ghee with cinna-, 
itiotl,' cardamoms and cloves, all entire,' fried' in it. Stir 
the mass thoroughly, close- the ' lid and allow it to simmer 
oh charcoal fire. You may put some pieces of glowing^ 
charcoal on the lid so that heating is uniform. Takes 
dow'ii from the'oven whfen the .mass is properly boiled andi 
whfcn no juice is left. ^ ;; ■:; , ■, r':.:-.R- > t 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 11?. 

CHHANA POLAO 

Required % — Rice i seer^ chhana i|- seer, ghee i^ 
powa, sugar '^ powa, seeds of the big quality cardamoms- 
\ tola, pistachios ^ powa, almonds ^ powa, raisins 4- powa, 
saffron -I- tola, white pepper \ tola, cassia leaves i6 in . 
number, ginger 2 tolas, cinnamon ^ tola, salt 4 tolas, 
water 3 seers. 

Method % — Drain off the water from good and fresh- 
chhana by high pressure, and cut it with a knife in pieces 
of medium size. If the chhana is too soft to take any- 
form, mix it with about |- powa of flour. Then brown 
the pieces of chhana in hot ghee. Heat some ghee in a 
boiler, cover its bottom with a layer of the cassia leaves ; 
and on them add the rice, washed and dried, along with 
the cardamom seeds, pistachios, almonds and raisins^, 
peeled and cut in pieces where necessary. Make a paste 
of or powder the white peppers and the ginger and mix 
them with the 3 seers of water with saffron and salt 
dissolved in it. Pour this water on the rice, close the lid' 
and apply a gentle heat. When it begins to boil add the- 
browned chhana. When the. rice have almost softened' 
add sugar, the rest of the ghee and powdered cinnamon. 
Shake the boiler or stir its contents thoroughly so that, 
the rice undergo complete turning. Boil for sometimet 
again and take off the fire when the mass is fully" 
boiled. 



.1 2 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

FISH POLAO 

Required : — Fish 3 lbs. rice I lb. ghee |- lb, ginger 
-J lb. cassia leaves |- tola, pepper i tola, a few red peppers, 
coriander seeds ^ lb., garam-masalla i tola, salt 4 tolas. 

Method % — Take off the scales and intestines of a 

fresh fish and cut it into big pieces. It will be the best 

: if only the middle portion of a fish weighing 6 or 7 lbs 

betaken. Wash the pieces of fish thoroughly with clean 

water. Wash the ginger, coriander seeds and peppers, 

and make a paste of the ginger. Tie the paste of ginger 

and the entire corianders and peppers loosely in a clean 

piece of cloth. Now drop the pieces of fish and the 

bundle of spices along with the salt in 4 lbs of boiling 

water and put the lid on. After about 1 5 minutes take 

■ out the pieces of fish excepting the head which is to be 

: taken out when properly boiled. Take down the pot 

when the juice is only 2 lbs. If you like you may brown 

the pieces of fish in ghee or oil without boiling them but 

' the head whether fried or not must be boiled. 

Heat about ^ lb. of ghee in a boiling pot and put the 
' cassia leaves and the garam-masalla, all entire, and a 

few red peppers broken in two, in it. When the smell 
• of the spices evolves, put the rice, washed and dried, in it 

and stir. After 6 or 7 minutes when the rice are properly 

fried add the akhni water ( i. e, the juice of the fish and 
r spices ) and cover with the lid. The boiled peppers may 

ibe pasted and added with the akhni water. Apply gentle 
"heat and take down when the rice are fully boiled. Then 
itnake a hole in the boiled rice, put a few pieces of fish 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 13 

in it and cover it up with rice again. Do this till all 
the pieces of fish are buried in the rice. Lastly add the 
rest of the ghee after heating it. Keep the polao hot 
for about an hour before serving. Fried onions may be 
taken with the palao. 

MEAT POLAO 

Required : — Tender meat i|- seers, rice i seer, ghee 
|- seer, curd i powa, lemon-juice ^ chhatak, ginger ^ powa, 
raisins l chhatak, pistachios ^ chhatak, almonds ^ powa, 
pepper 2 tolas, cumin seeds 5- tola, cassia leaves 16 in 
number, red peppers a few, if desired, salt i chhatak, 
onions i powa, garlic a few pieces, if desired, cardamoms 
10 or 12 in number, 6oriander seeds 1 tola. 

Method t — Peel and cut the almonds and pistachios 
in pieces after keeping them under water for about half 
an hour. Cut the onions also in pieces. 

Make a paste of the gingers and bind it with cori- 
ander seeds, and garlics if desired, in a clean piece of 
cloth. Boil this bundle of spices, and meat with half 
the salt in about 4^ seers of water till the water is halved. 
Take the boiled meat out of the juice and mix them with 
powdered peppers and powdered cumin seeds. 

Now take about i|. powa of ghee in a pan and put 
the cassia leaves and the seeds of the cardamoms in it,^ 
and heat. A few red peppers broken in two may be 
added, if desired. After about 4 or 5 minutes put th^ 
pieces of onions, almonds and pistachios, and fry them 
in the ghee. When the onions are half fried add the 



fl^ INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

- raisins. When the onions are fully fried add the boiled 
meat and stir continually. When the meat begin to 

. stick to the sides of the pan add the curd and stir till 
the meat are red. It takes about 15 minutes to make 
the meat red. Water may be added little by little if 
necessary. When the meat are red add the rice, washed 

- and dried, and stir for about 2 minutes. Then pour the 
akhni water in the pan with lemon-juice and the rest 

-of the salt. When the mass is boiled and the juice is 
dried up pour the rest of the ghee after heating it. Stir, 
the contents for 2 or 3 minutes and take down 
the pan. 

EGG POLAO 

Required % — Rice i seer, egg about 20 in number,, 
potato I seer, pure cows' ghee ^ powa, ordinary ghee 

. i^ powa, salt 3 to 4 tolas, one tablespoonful of milk, saffron 
■^ tola, cloves i tola, cardamom | tola, cinnamon | tola, 
cassia leaves ^ tola, turmeric ^ chhatak, ginger ^ chhatak," 
coriander seeds 2 tolas, cumin seeds |- tola, pepper |- tola, 
pistachios | chhatak, almonds i chhatak, raisins i chhatak.' 
Method ;— Pulverize half the cloves, cardamoms, 
turmerics and all the cinnamons, gingers, coriander seeds, 
cumin seeds and peppers, and boil them with a few 

' cassia leaves and i tola of sal: in about 4 seers of water. 
Put the lid on and take down when the water is halved. 
Strain off the coloured water with a strainer in another 
pot and throw away the refuse. This is akhni water and 
keep it covered. 



INDIAN COOKEkY AND' CONFECTIONERY I5 

In the meantime boil fully about 16 eggs, cut into 
-Ihalves, smear them with the rest of the turmeric and 
I tola of salt, both powdered, and brown them in ghee, 
A small quantity of powdered peppers may also be 
; smeared on the boiled eggs. Peel the . potatoes, cut into 
thick circular disks and brown them also in a similar 
way. Brown also the pistachios, almonds and raisins, 
■peeled and cut into pieces where necessary. 

Dissolve the saffron in one tablespoonful of milk and 
mix it thoroughly with the rice, washed arid dried, witb 

- J powa of pure cow's ghee and the rest of the salt, till 
the rice are coloured. Fry this rice with ghee for about 

' 6 or 7 minutes. 

Now heat the rest of the ghee in a boiler and take 
half of it out. Then make the layers of the following in 

■ order on the ghee in the boiler : cassia leaves ; rice ; 
pistachios, almonds, raisins and the rest of the cloves and 
cardamoms, all of them mixed together ; eggs j potatoes ; 

. and then again another series of layers in the same order, 

-Sprinkle the heated ghee which was taken out of the 
boiler on the uppermost layer. Then add the spiced 
water and see whether it stands at least 2 inches above 
-the uppermost layer. If it does not, add sufficient water 
again. Cover up the boiler and boil on mild heat. 
When the water almost dries up, add the contents of 

_3 or 4 fresh eggs and stir. Heat the mass for a few 

jninutes more and take down. 



l6 INDIAN. COOKERY AND COOFECTIONERV 

POLAO WITH ENTIRE FOWLS (Simple) 

Required : — Rice |- seer, ghee i powa, onions ^ powa,, 
a few cassia leaves, cloves, and cardamoms, cinnamon 
■|- tola^ salt 2 tolas, fowl i in , number, water i seer, tur- 
meric |- tola. 

Method :— Wash the rice thoroughly and keep them 
moist with a small quantity of water. Cut the onions- 
in pieces and fry them in ghee and take out. Then take 
about ^ powa of ghee in the same pan and when it is . 
liot, roast the fowl, cleaned and washed and smeared with, 
a paste of the turmeric, a few rav/ onions and half thd 
salt, in it for 7 or 8 minutes till all the water comings 
out of the fowl dries up. Take the fowl out of the pan.. 
Now take the rest of the ghee in the pan and add the. 
cassia leaves, cloves, cardamoms and cinnamons, all entire^ 
in it; When the smell of the spices comes out, pour the 
mbist rice in it and stir for about 5 -minutes. Then add 
the roasted fowl and the fried onions, stir them for 2 or 
■3 minutes, and after that pour water with the restofthe^ 
salt in the pan. Lower the temperature of the fire when 
the mass begins to boil and allow it to simmer for quite 
A long time. Take down when the water dries up, and' 
thei fowl and the rice are non-sticky. Add a little of 
hot water if water runs short at any time. 

POLAO WITH FOWLS ( Alternative ) 

Required : — Rice I seer, ininced meat -I- seer, ghee". 
■I seer, onions i|- powa, almonds ^- powa, raisins ^ powa, 
salt 4 tolas, curd | powa, ginger ^ chhatak, coriander seeds- 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I 7 

I tola^ cloves ^ tola, cardamoms ^ tola, cinnamon -^ tola, 
pepper |- tola, saffron | tola, garlic i in number, lemon 
I in number, a few cassia leaves, i tablespoonful of rose- 
water, eggs 5 or 6 in number, fowl i in number. 

Method : — Make a paste of a few pieces of raw onions, 
a few pieces of garlic, half the ginger, all the coi-iander 
seeds and a few cloves. Boil this paste with some salt, 
half the saffron and half the cassia leaves in about 3 seers 
of water till it is halved. Strain the akhni water out and 
keep it covered. 

Make a paste of a few cloves, cardamoms, almonds 
and mix it with the curd, the juice of the lemon and 
the rose-water with the rest of saffron dissolved 
in it 

Cut the onions into pieces and fry them, excepting 
only some pieces, in about |- powa of ghee and keep them 
with the ghee in another pot. Again take about |- powa 
of ghee and fry in it the raisins and almonds, peeled and 
cut into pieces and take them out of the ghee. Now fry 
the minced meat in the same ghee. Fry for 2 or 3 minutes 
more after the water coming out of the meat dries up. 

Make a paste of -|- of the meat, some fried onions, 4 or 
5 cloves, 2 or 3 cardamoms, a piece of cinnamon, a pinch 
of salt, and the minced liver of the fowl, if desired. 
Mix some fried almonds and raisins, a few drops of lemon- 
juice and a pinch of powdered pepper with the paste and 
stuff it into the bowls of the fowl, and stitch it up. Then 
make 4 paste qf the rest of the ginger, garlic, the pieces 
of raw onions, |- chhatak of ghee and some salt, and smear 
this; paste oil the -body of the fowlv 
2 



1 8 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

Now roast the fowl in i chhatak of ghee. When the 
water coming out of the fowl dries up^ roast it by 
constantly sprinkling the curd with spices mixed in it till 
the fowl is fully boiled. Take down after adding some 
powdered garam-masalla. 

Make a paste of the fried minced meat and half the 
fried onions, and mix it with salt^ some powdered garam- 
tnasalla, the rest of the powdered peppers and the white 
of the eggs Make 8 or lo round thick balls of this mass 
and fry them in ghee. Also make 2 big omelettes with 
the yolks of the eggs after mixing them with thin slices 
of ginger, raw onions, some powdered peppers and salt. 
Cut the omelettes in long stripes. 

Take about ^ powa of ghee in a pan and heat with 
some entire garam-masalla. Add rice when the smell 
evolves and stir till the rice become white and begin to 
burst. Then add the akhni water. Take down after 
about 25 minutes when the water dries up and the rice 
are boiled. 

Now arrange the layers of, in a boiler as follows : 
cassia leaves, fried onions with the ghee, rice, fried almonds 
and raisins, rice, roasted fowl with its juice, rice, fried balls 
of meat, rice, pieces of omelettes, and rice. Shut the 
mouth of the boiler and heat very slowly for about three 
quarters of an hour. Then it is ready for the dish. 

WHEAT POLAO. 

Required : — Meat i seer, wheat i seer, ghee 2^ powa, 
curd ^ powa, almonds ^ powa, raisins ^ powa, pistachios i 
chhatak, pepper 2^ tolas, ginger i^^ tola, coriander seeds 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 9 

C5^ tola, garam-masalla | tola, black cumin seeds | tola, a 
few cassia leaves, salt 3 tolas and onions ^ powa. 

Method : — Take all the coriander seeds, half the 
ginger and peppers and a few pieces of raw onions ; 
break them into pieces in mortar with pestle and bind 
them carefully and loosely in a piece of clean cloth. Boil 
this bundle of spices with meat and 2 tolas of salt in 
about 4 seers of water till it reduces to half Take the 
akhni water out and keep it covered. 

Now mix the curd, the rest of the powdered peppers, 
pasted ginger, salt, and half the garam-masalla, powdered, 
with the boiled meat. Take about ^ powa of ghee in a 
•pan and "heat it with half of the black cumin seeds and 
■cassia leaves. After about 4 or 5 minutes add the onions, 
peeled and cut in pieces, and stir till they are fully fried. 
Then add the boiled meat and stir for about 15 minutes 
.till they are red. Then take down. 

Take ^ powa of ghee again in the pot and brown the 
pistachios and almonds, peeled and cut in pieces after 
keeping them under water for about half an hour. Add 
the raisins when they are slightly browned and take them 
•out when they are fully browned. Take a little more ghee 
in the pan, if necessary, and fry the rest of the garam- 
masalla in it. When the smell of the spices evolves add 
the wheat, washed and dried, and stir for about 7 or 8 
minutes. Then add the akhni water and boil. Take down 

when the water dries up. 

Now heat the rest of the ghee in a boiler and take 

lialf of it out. Then make a layer of cassia leaves in the 

iboiler and sprinkle the rest of the black cumin seeds on 



20 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

them. After this make a layer of the boiled wheat and' 
on it one of all the fried pistachios, almonds and 
raisins, mixed together. Then on them make as many- 
alternate layers of meat and wheat as possible. Pour the 
rest of the hot ghee on the uppermost layer, shut the 
mouth of the boiler and apply very gentle heat for about 
an hour or more, when the polao will be ready to be- 
served. Wheat is only a substitute for rice in. 
this polao 



PULSES. 
MOOG-DAL. 

Required : — Fried moog-dal |- seer, ghee i chhatak, 
turmeric ^ tola, pepper with cumin seeds ^ tola, coriander 
.•|- tola, a few cassia leaves, red chillies 3 or 4, salt i|- tola, 
sugar I tola, water i seer, and panch-foron i pinch. 

Method : — Entire moog pulses are generally heated 
in a pot for a few minutes and then they are grinded and 
husked. These are called fried moog-dal. This makes 
the dal more tasteful. Such process may be applied to 
other pulses also but this is generally done only in the case 
of moog pulses. Raw or unfried moog dal which are called 
in Bengali "Kancha moog-dal" are also taken with 
relish. 

Heat water in a pan. Wash the moog-dal thoroughly 
and add them in the water when it boils. Put the lid on 
keeping a small opening. Clear off the scum formed on the 
surface from time to time throughout the entire run. Add 
the powdered turmeric and the sugar when the pulses 
are soft. Add the pepper with cumin and the coriander, 
,all pasted or powdered, when the pulses melt. Add salt 
-and then take the pot down from the oven. 

Take the ghee in another pan and heat with the 
-cassia leaves, red chillies broken in pieces, and the panch- 
foron. Pour the boiled liquid dal when the red chillies 
rturn black. Care should be taken that the hot liquid 



22 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

may not splutter off the pan and injure the cook. BoiF 
it for a few minutes more and take down This is a- 
simple preparation of moog-dal. 

MOOG-DAL ( Alternative )- 

Required t — Fried moog-dal |- seer, ghee i powa,. 
pepper with cumin ^ tola , coriander |- tola, cloves |- tola, 
ginger i tola, saffron | tola, turmeric ^ tola, salt i tola, 
panch-foron i pinch, a few cassia leaves, water J seer. 

Method :— Make separate pastes or powders of the- 
mixture of pepper and cumin, coriander, ginger and 
turmeric. Dissolve the salt and turmeric in the water. 
Take half the ghee in a pan and heat with half the 
cloves. Add the moog-dal, washed and dried, when the 
smell comes out, and stir. After frying for a few minutes^ 
add the water with turmeric and salt. After boiling for 
about 5 minutes add the juice of the ginger, ether pasted' 
or powdered spices, and saffron dissolved in a little water.. 
Stir for a while and put the lid on. Take the pan down 
after a short time. 

Heat the rest of the ghee in another pan with the- 
rest of the cloves, the panch-foron and a few cassia leaves. 
Pour in the boiled dal when the smell comes out. Boil till 
the dal is thick. Extra water may be added wherever 
necessary. The preparation usually takes about 20 
minutes. 

The dal should not be melted in this preparation. 
They should be well boiled but at the same time they 
should remain entire. This is a delicate and tasteful 
preparation. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 23; 

CHHOLA or GHANA ( Gram ). 

Required % — Chhola-dal ^ seer, ghee i powa, 
coriander i tola, pepper ^ tola, cumin | tola, turmeric ^ 
tola, ginger | tola, sugar |- tola, salt i tola, cloves \ tola, 
cardamom ^ tola^ cinnamon ^ tola, a few cassia leaves and 
red chillies, panch-foron i pinch, water f seer, a handful 
of chhatoo of grams. 

Method I — Heat half the ghee in a pan and when the 
bubbles die out add a few red chillies broken in two, 
ginger and half the cloves, cinnamon, and cardamom^ all 
of them ground. Stir for about a minute and add the dal, 
washed and dried, in it. After frying for about 5 minutes 
add the specified amount of hot water. Add the sugar, 
half the cassia leaves and powdered or pasted turmeric, 
coriander, pepper and cumin when the pulses are half 
boiled If the water becomes unmanageable some of it 
may be taken out to be added later on. Add salt and the 
chhatoo when the pulses are fully boiled. Always take 
care that the pulses do not melt. 

Heat the rest of the ghee in another pot with the 
panch-foron and the rest of the cassia leaves, cloves, 
cinnamons and the seeds of the cardamoms, all entire. 
When the smell of the spices comes out add the ghee 
in the boiling dal. Stir the dal for a few minutes and take 
down when it is moderately thick. This is a very tasteful 
preparation and it is served in nearly all the feasts given 
by Bengalees. 

This becomes more tasteful if fried lobsters are added 
when the dal begins to boil. The lobsters are to be fried 



24 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

with oil after removing all the crusts excepting only those 
covering the brains and smearing them with powdered 
or pasted turmeric and salt. Pasted onions may also 
be added along with turmeric and salt in frying the 
lobsters. Fried onions may be added with fried lobsters 
instead of frying the latter with pasted onions. 

MASUR DAL (Simple). 

Required % — Masur dal ^ seer, ghee i chhatak, curd 
I chhatakj ginger i tola, pepper |- tola, cumin ^ tola, 
turmeric -j- tola, cassia leaves 4 in number, panch-foron 
I pinch, salt i|- tola, water i-j- seer, fenugreek i pinch. 

Method % — Boil the washed dal in water. Add 
powdered turmeric and cassia leaves when it starts 
boiling. Add ginger, pepper and cumin, all of them 
pasted or powdered, and curd and salt when the pulses 
are boiled. Churn the liquid so that the pulses melt 
thoroughly. Then take the pan down. 

Heat the ghee in another pan with the panch-foron 
and fenugreek in it. When they are fried pour in the 
liquid dal. Boil for a few minutes more and take down. 

MASUR DAL ( Alternative ). 

Required s— Masur dal ^ seer, ghee | powa, curd 
I chhatak, ginger-juice i tola, pepper ^ tola, cumin 
^ tola, turmeric ^ tola, a few cassia leaves, salt i| tola, 
cardamom, cinnamon and clove \ tola altogether, panch- 
foron I pinch, water i seer^ a few green chillies. 

Method I— Wash the dal and l<eep them under water 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 25 

for about 20 minutes, and then drain off the water. 
Heat half the ghee in a pan with the cassia leaves. Add 
the dal when the ghee is sufficiently hot and stir till 
they become light brown. Then add hot water with 
salt and powdered turmeric. Add curd, ginger-juice and 
powdered pepper and cumin when the pulses are well 
boiled. The pulses must be thoroughly melted. Then 
take the pan down. Heat the rest of the ghee in another 
pan with the panch-foron and the green chillies cut 
lengthwise. Pour in the liquid dal when the ghee is 
.sufficiently hot Boil for a few minutes more. Add 
powdered cardamom, cinnamon and clove, and stir before 
taking off the fire. Keep it covered. 

Masur dal is very tasteful, easily digestible and nutri- 
tious Green leaves of coriander plants are often added 
to give an aroma to the preparation 

ARAHAR and MASH KALAI. 

The required materials and the methods are the same 
in the preparations of both arahar and mash-kalai as in 
the case of masur dal Arahar dal should be cooked 
with plenty of ghee and mash-kalai with powdered or 
pasted aniseed and ginger for making the preparations 
more tasteful. 

KANCHA-MOOG. 

Moog dal when husked aftef drying them in the sun 
instead of frying them are called "kancha moog-dal". 
They are richer in vitamin than' the fried quality arid 
are easier to digest. Raw entire moog "'give Up shoots 



26 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

when kept moistened with water for about 20 hours, 
and when cooked with shoots without rich spices they 
can be assimilated even by patients who cannot usually 
digest vegetable protein. The requisites and the methods- 
are almost the same as in the case of the fried moog-dal. 
The seasoning is only a bit different. 

Heat ghee or oil in a pan and when it is sufficiently 
hot add a pinch of mustard seeds some pasted ginger 
and sliced pieces of karela or uch-chhe, if desired, and 
stir till they are fried. Then pour in the boiled liquid 
dal and boil it again for a few minutes more. Add some 
hot ghee and stir before taking down. 



PEAS. 

Required : — Peas, husked and broken in two, i seer,, 
ghee ^ powa, ginger 2 tolas, cumin i tola, coriander 2- 
tolas, salt |- chhatak, pepper |- tola, garam-masalla ^ tola, 
water 2 seers, a few cassia leaves. 

Method % — Make a paste of the ginger, cumin, cori- 
ander and pepper and dilute it in the water with salt. 
Brown the dal in half of the ghee and pour in the spiced 
water. Take down when the dal are thoroughly boiled. 

Heat the remaining ghee in another pan with the 
cassia leaves and the powdered garam-masalla. Pour 
in the boiled dal when the smell of the spices evolves, 
and stir. Take down when the desired degree of thick- 
ness is obtained. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 27 

DAL with VEGETABLES, 

Pieces of vegetables, such as potatoes, brinjals, gourds, 
cauliflowers, tender shoots of lau, gourd, etc., and many 
others may be added to the varieties of dais. The 
method is quite simple. While seasoning, brown the 
required spices in ghee or oil along with the pieces of 
vegetables, and then add the boiled liquid dal. Brinjals 
do not require much browning. Shoots of lau, gourds, 
coriander, etc., do not require any browning. They are 
to be dropped into the boiling dal. 

SOUR DAL. 

Sour or acid preparation of dal is cooked with any 
kind of pulse but specially with masur and moog. Green 
mangoes, green or ripe tamarinds, olives, amra, am-ada, 
karamcha, chalta, etc. are generally used. The method, 
of cooking is quite simple. Ghee or spices are not to 
be used. Boil dal with turmeric and salt as usual. Heat 
some oil and slightly brown the pieces of the sour things, 
peeled and thrashed where necessary, in it. Then pour 
in the boiled liquid dal and stir. Boil it for a few minutes- 
and take down. Sugar may be added if desired. 



KHECHURI. 
SIMPLE KHECHURI. 

Wash equal weights of fine rice, atap or siddha, and 
fried moog-dal, and drop them in boiling water. After a 
few minutes add sliced onions and potatoes^ fried or raw, 
if desired. When the rice are half boiled add 2 tolas of 
powdered turmeric, i tola of powdered cumin and 2^ tolas 
■of salt for every seer of rice. Take the cooking-pot off 
the fire when the khechuri is fully boiled and is tolerably 
thick. Fry a few cloves, the seeds of a few cardamoms, 
some red chillies, broken in two, and cassia leaves in 
ghee in another pot. Pour in the khechuri when the 
smell of the spices comes out, and stir. Take down after 
a few minutes. Serve while hot with plenty of ghee, 
prepared from cow-milk, on the khechuri. 

Slow heat and constant stirring are essential specially 
at the finishing time in the preparation of khechuri as 
was in the case of polao, otherwise a portion of the boiling 
mass may get scorched, and the whole thing may 
thereby be absolutely spoiled 

KHECHURI with GREEN PEAS- 

Required :— Rice ^ seer, dal prepared from fried 
golden-coloured moog i seer, green pea-grains i seer, 
ghee I seer, saffron I tola, salt 3 tolas, turmeric ^ tola, 
coriander i tola, pepper i tola, cumin i tola, garam- 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 29 

masalla |-tola, a few cassia leaves and red chillies, a little- 
milkj onion ^ seer. 

Method s — Wash the rice and pulse, and dry them 
separately. Dissolve the saffron in a little milk and mix 
it with the rice. Heat half the ghee in a pan, and fry the 
rice and pulse together in it for about 5 or 6 minutes. 
Then pour in water so that it stands 2 or 3 inches above 
the mixture of rice and pulse. Put the lid on and cook on 
slow heat. Add salt, turmeric, coriander, pepper and 
cumin, all powdered or pasted, and the green pea-grains 
when the rice are half-boiled. Add water if necessary. 
Take the pan down when the mass is fully boiled. 

Heat the rest of the ghee in another pan, and fry the 
cassia leaves and the red chillies, broken in two, in it. 
Add the finely chopped onions when the red chillies turn, 
black. Pour in the mass when the onions are properly 
browned, and stir. Add powdered or pasted garam- 
masalla when the mass is thick. Stir and take down_ 
Serve while hot. 

BHUNI-KHECHURI. 

Required t — Fine atap rice i seer, fried moog-dal i 
seer, potato i seer, ghee f seer, onion i powa, turmeric 

1 tola, salt 3|- tolas, pepper i tola, cumin ^ tola, coriander 

2 tolas, aniseed ^ tola, cloves -j- tola, cardamom -g tola, 
cinnamon -j- tola, a few red chillies and cassia leaves. 

Method ? — t'ulverise the coriander, aniseed, half the 
pepper and half the cloves, bind them in a piece of clean 
cloth, krid boil with some cassia leaves in 4 ^eers of water 



30 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

till it is reduced to 2^ seers. Throw away the boiled 
spices and keep the akhni water covered. 

Wash and dry the rice and pulse, and brown them in 
half the ghee for 5 or 6 minutes. Then add akhni water 
.and put the lid on. Do not stir much. Apply slow heat. 
Brown the pieces of potatoes and onions in another pan 
and drop them with turmeric, pepper and cumin, all 
powdered, and salt in the boiling rice when they are 
half boiled. Take down when the mass is fully boiled. 

Boil the rest of the ghee with the cassia leaves and 
red chillies, and pour the mass in. Finish by adding the 
powdered cloves, cardamoms and cinnamon. 

Try to keep the grains of rice and pulse entire. If 
meat is to be added, boil the meat while preparing akhni 
water, brown the boiled meat and drop them in the 
khechuri with the browned potatoes. 

KHECHURI with MEAT. 

Required : — Rice i seer, fried moog-dal i^- seers, 
ghee f seer, saffron -I- tola, meat i|- seers or more, onions 
|- seer, curd i powa, salt 5 tolas, turmeric i tola, ginger 
2^ tolas, coriander i tola, pepper i tola, cumin i tola, 
garam-masalla i tola, a few cassia leaves and red 
chillies. 

Method ; — Wash and dry the rice and dal, and mix 
them with saffron dissolved in a little milk. Fry them in a 
third of the ghee and pour in boiling water. Add half the 
5alt and stir. 

Mix powdered coriander, pasted ginger and curd with 
the meat. Fry the pieces of onions in another third of th e 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 3 1 

ghee, add the meat, and stir. When the water coming out 
from the meat dries up add powdered turmeric, salt and 
^ater. Pour in the boiled rice and pulse when the meat 
are fully boiled. Add powdered pepper and cumin, and 
stir thoroughly. 

Boil the rest of the ghee with the cassia leaves and 
J-ed chillies and pour it into the boiling mass with 
powdered garam-masalla. Stir, and boil on gentle heat. 
Take down when tolerably thick. 

KHECHURI with EGGS. 

Required : — Rice |- seer, fried moog dal ^ seer, ghee 
I powa, onion i powa, a dozen eggs, salt 2^ tolas, pepper 
.f tola, coriander i tola, aniseed ^ tola, ginger i tola, 
■garam-masalla ^ tola, turmeric |- tola, cumin f tola, a few 
•cassia leaves and red chillies. 

Method : — Wash and dry the rice and pulse, and brown 
them lightly in |- powa of ghee. Then pour in 2 seers of 
akhni water prepared by boiling the pepper, coriander, 
aniseed and a few cloves and cassia leaves. Fry the pieces 
of onions and add them with salt, pasted or powdered 
ginger, turmeric and cumin when the rice begin to boil. 
Add a little saffron if desired. Slow down the fire. Add 
the contents of several fresh eggs and stir incessantly so 
that they may not coagulate. Boil |- powa of ghee with 
cassia leaves and red chillies, and pour it in the khechuri 
when the boiling nears completion. Add powdered garam- 
masalla before taking down. Sprinkle some finely chopped 
onions while serving on the khechuri in every dish. 



32 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

If potatoes ai'e to be added, cut them in pieces, brown 
a little, and add to the khechuri with the spices. 

KHECHURl with CHINRE (Flattened rice). 

Required % — Chinre |- seer, fried moog-dal |- seer, curd 
I powa, adequate quantities of ghee, spices, salt and 
vegetables, and a little tamarind 

Method : — Wash chinre and mix them with curd, 
tamarind and powdered garam-masalla. Prepare moog- 
dal as in the alternative method, only do not make it so 
thick. Heat sufficient ghee and add cassia leaves, red 
chillies and a pinch of entire cumin. Add pieces of 
cauliflowers, potatoes, green peas and other vegetables 
according to taste when the red chillies turn black, and 
brown them. Then add powdered turmeric, salt and the 
boiled dal. Add chinre when the vegetables are boiled, 
and boil for a few minutes more. Add ghee and garam- 
masalla before taking down. Fried fish may be added 
if desired along with the boiled dal. 

GOLAPI KHECHURI. 

Required % — Rice ^ seer, fried moog-dal ^ seer, potato 
|- seer or more, onion i powa, ghee ^ powa, salt 2 tolas, 
ginger i tola, turmeric ^ tola, cumin \ tola, pepper 
^ tola, garam-masalla ^ tola, a few cassia leaves and red 
chillies. 

Method s— Heat the cassia leaves and red chillies 
with half the ghee and when the chillies turn black drop 
rice and pulse, washed and dried, and stir for about. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 33 

5 minutes. Then pour in water and cover the boiling pot. 
Add salt, turmeric, cumin, pepper and ginger, all pasted 
or powdered^ when the rice are half-boiled. Brown pieces 
of potatoes and onions in ghee or oil and drop them in 
the khechuri. Add ghee and powdered garam-masalla 
before finish. Almonds, pistachios and raisins, peeled and 
cut in pieces, may be added if desired after browning 
them in ghee. Mix adequate quantities of rose-water with 
the khechuri in every dish before serving. 

KHECHURI WITH FUL-KAPI (cauliflower). 

Required : — Same as those required in the previous 
case plus cauliflower. 

Method % — Prepare khechuri exactly in the same 
process as in the case of Golapi-khechuri. Only add 
browned pieces of cauliflowers instead of onions or along 
with onions. Entire grams, after keeping them under 
water for a few hours, are generally browned and added 
to the khechuri along with the cauliflowers. 

BADSHAHI KHECHURI. 

Required % — Fried moog-dal i seer, rice |- seer, ghee 
I powa, potato \ seer or more, onion |- seer, raisins ^ powa, 
almonds i chhatak, ginger 1 chhatak, pistachios ^ 
chhatak, salt h chhatak, cumin i tola, turmeric i tola, 
pepper I tola, garam-masalla -^ tola, a few cassia leaves 
and red chillies, and one ripe cocoa-nut if desired. 

Method % — Drop, rice when the water boils. Drop 
pulse when, the rice are half boiled.' Then add salt and 

3 



34 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

browned pieces of onions and potatoes. After this add 
browned pieces of pistachios^ almonds and raisins. The 
pasted kernel of a ripe cocoa-nut or its milk may be added 
now if desired. Add pepper, cumin^ turmeric and some 
red chillies, all powdered, when the boiling is almost 
complete. Then heat the ghee with broken red chillies^ 
seeds of cardamoms, pieces of cinnamon, entire cloves and 
cassia leaves. Add this to the khechuri when the smell 
evolves. Pour in the juice of the ginger just before taking 
the boiling pot off the fire. Stir continually after adding 
the spices. 

In all the above preparations of khechuri both masur 
dal and moog-dal may be taken in equal proportions 
instead of simply moog-dal. Other pulses may be used 
if desired, but in general they are not used. 

GHUGNI (Simple), 

Required : — Entire grams ^ seer, potato ^ seer, ghee 
I powa, poppy-seed ^ powa, garam-masalla ^ tola, pepper 
I tola, cumin i tola, coriander i tola, some red chillies, 
a ripe cocoa nut, ginger i chhatak, turmeric i tola, salt i 
tola, a pinch of aniseed, almonds and pistachios if 
desired. 

Method I — Keep the grams under water for about 6 
hours and then boil them in water till they are quite 
soft. Take the husks out that come out easily and drain 
off the water. 

Heat the garam-masalla, pepper, cumin and coriander 
in a pot without ghee or oil for a few minutes and then 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 35 

powder them with turmeric. Similarly heat the poppy-seed 
and pulverize them. Mix them together. 

Brown the pieces of potatoes and those of the kernel 
of the cocoa-nut in half a powa of ghee or oil and then 
add the boiled grams. Stir for 5 minutes, add the pow- 
dered spices, and stir for 5 minutes more. Then add a 
little water and salt, and stir. Take down when the 
water dries up and the mass is quite soft. 

Now heat half a powa of ghee ( not oil ) with the 
aniseed and red chillies. Brown the pieces of almonds and 
pistachios in it. Then add the boiled mass and stir. 
Cut the ginger in very small pieces and mix them with 
the mass before taking down. Eat while warm. 
Peas and barabati may be used instead of grams. 



VEGETABLE CURRIES- 

In preparing vegetable curries it is not always possible- 
to mention the exact weights or volumes of the ingredi- 
ents required — vegetables, spices^ salt, water, etc. — a 
little experience is needed in judging the requisite- 
quantities. 

SUKTA. 

Required t — Varieties of vegetables, as jhinga, potato,, 
patol, brinjal, radish, beans, figs, green bananas, bori 
( dried cakes of pasted pulse ), the kernel of a ripe cocoa- 
nut scratched out, sajina khara, kachu, etc. Use several 
of them with something bitter like tender jute leaves and 
neem leaves, uch-chhe, karala, palta, etc. Pieces of 
peeled green bananas are to be kept in water for some- 
time otherwise the curry will be very black. 

Method : — Brown the boris in oil first and keep 
them aside. Fry the bitter vegetables in sufficient oil 
and add the other pieces of peeled vegetables. When 
everything is properly browned by constant stirring, add 
water with very little powdered turmeric and pasted 
ginger, and sufficient quantities of salt, powdered mustard, 
pepper and cumin. Add the browned boris when the 
mass is boiled. Season it with some ghee heated with a 
few mustard seeds. A little milk or sugar may be added 
now if desired. Take down with a quantity of soup. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 37 

A little thin solution of flour niay be added if the soup 
is too thin. Serve this curry first amongst others. As 
a general rule bitter curries are to be served first. 



OL-CURRY. 

Peel the skin thickly off the ol, Cut the ol and 
-potatoes in big pieces. Boil the pieces of ol in water 
with a few drops of lemon-juice and drain off the water. 
Then brown the ol and take down. Similarly brown the 
■potatoes in oil and then add water with powdered turme- 
ric, coriander, pepper, cumin, red chillies and salt. 
When it boils add browned ol. Season the curry when 
it is fully boiled with oil or ghee heated with a few panch- 
foron, cassia leaves and red chillies. Add ghee and pow- 
dered garam-masalla before taking down. The soup 
■jnust be thick and scanty. 

MUKHIKACHU. 

First boil the kachu and then peel it off. Peel some 
potatoes and cut into small pieces. Brown the vegetables 
in ghee and add ground turmeric, red chillies, coriander, 
pepper, cumin, minced onions, ginger-juice, salt and 
water. Season the curry with ghee boiled ^\•ith a few 
cassia leaves, red chillies and minced onions. Add pow- 
•dered garam-masalla when the .^oup thickens, and take 
down. Kachu may be peeled and cut in big pieces 
without boiling first and browned with the pieces of 
potatoes. 



38 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIGNERV 

FUL-KAPI CHACH CHARI. 

Ghach-chari is a fried preparation of vegetables with- 
out soup. Bengalees favour it much. It is served with 
dal and its preparation is quite simple. 

Required : — Cauliflower i seer^ potato i powa, green: 
peas -g- powa, bori |- powa^ oil i powa^ ground turmeric 
i tola, red chillies |- tola, pepper -I- tola, cumin |- tola, 
coriander i tola, cinnamon i tola, salt 2 tolas, and a 
few cloves, cardamoms, cassia leaves and panch-foron,. 
water about ^ seer. 

Method t — Brown the bori in oil and keep them: 
aside. Brown all the vegetables, peeled and cut in pieces, 
and add water with all the powdered spices except the 
panch-foron, cassia leaves and a few red chillies. Add! 
bori and salt when it boils. Season the curry with the 
rest of the oil heated with the remaining spices. Take 
down when the water dries up, 

KACHU-SAK GHANTA. 

Take some tender stalks of arum ( available only in 
the rainy season ), skin them and cut into pieces an inch 
long. Boil them and drain off the water. Add grounct 
pepper, cumin, coriander, turmeric, red chillies and salt, 
and beat thoroughly. Fry this with a handful of 
moistened grams in oil heated with a few cumin seeds. 
Add some minced kernel of cocoanut and stir. Take- 
down when the soup dries up. A little milk and a pinch. 
of sugar may be added if desired. 

Tender leaves of amrita mun, available all the year 
round, may also be prepared in the same way. 



..INDIAN. COOKERY AND-'CONFEGTIONErY 39 

LAUGH ANTA. 

Peel and chop a very tender pumpkin into fine pieces, 
arid boil them with a little water. Now add suitable 
quantities of cumin, coriander, mustard and a little 
pepper, ginger and garam-masalla, all pasted together, 
with salt. Also add some milk with a little flour and 
sugar mixed in it, and stir the mass thoroughly. Heat 
a little ghee in a pan with a few cassia leaves in it and 
pour in the mass and boil. Browned broken bori may 
be added if desired. Take down when a little or no 
soup remains. 

MOCHAGHANTA. 

It is a bit difficult and requires a little experience to 
prepare the mocha for cooking. Remove the sepals i. e. 
the cap-like covers of the undeveloped bunches of bananas 
as far as possible, other cap-like white substances at the 
end of each banana and the thin stick-like hard subs- 
tances in the same position. Then chop the rest throw- 
ing away the extreme ends of the bananas and the 
central stem. When these things can no longer be 
separated chop the remaining solid white mass. 

Chop one or two banana flowers into very fine pieces 
and keep them in water for a few hours. Then boil 
them in fresh water and drain the water off. Now add 
adequate quantities of salt, cumin, coriander, and a little 
pepper, ginger and turmeric, all pasted or powdered, plus 
a little milk, sugar and flour. Rub the mass thoroughly. 
Also mix. some browned bori broken in pieces. Season; 



40 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

the mass with a little ;^hee heated with a few cassia 
leaves, add a little water and boil gently for a few 
minutes. Mix a little powdered garam-masalla when the 
soup is scanty, and take down. This is one of the 
most delicious preparations. 

MULA-GHANTA. 

Peel and chop a few radishes into small pieces and 
boil them in water. Drain off the water and again 
wash them with cold water to weaken the disagreeable 
smell. Now brown the boiled pieces in some oil heated 
with a few cassia leaves. Then add some til and a little 
pepper, cumin and coriander, all powdered, with water 
and a little milk. When it begins to boil add salt, 
sugar and browned broken bori, and mix thoroughh". 
Add some ghee before taking down. 

PALANG SAK GHANTA. 

Of all the varieties of vegetables and salads palang 
sak, specially when on the [joint of budding, is particularly 
suited for ghanta. Tender leaves of pumpkin are usually 
mixed with them to make the curry more tasteful. Chop 
the sak fine and wash thoroughly. Boil them and drain 
off the water. Then mix flour, salt and powdered 
turmeric, pepper, cumin and red chillies in suitable 
quantities. Boil some fried fishes in water, pick up the 
bones and add the mixture of flesh and water, if 
desired. 

Boil some ghee with a few cassia leaves . and cumin, 
and add the mass. Stir constantly so that the mass may 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 4I 

■not be scorched. Add green peas and some pieces of 
beans, potatoes and brinjals if you like. Add browned 
broken bori after a while. The curry is ready when the 
•soup is thick and the mass is completely boiled 

PEA GHANTA. 

Required ; — Green peas -g- .seer, potatoes i seer, ghee 
I powa, pepper i tola, ginger 2 tolas, salt 2 tolas, cori- 
ander 2 tolas, sugar 2^ tolas, flour i tola, water i seer, 
a little milk, garam-masalla ^ tola, a few cassia leaves. 

Method 5 — Brown the pe&s and pieces of potatoes 
separately in two thirds of the ghee. Add the pasted 
pepper, ginger and salt in the water and boil. Then 
add the peas and potatoes. When well boiled season 
them with the rest of the ghee heated with a few cassia 
leaves. Then mix the powdered coriander, sugar and 
flour with the milk and pour in. Boil for a few minutes 
-more. Finish by adding the powdered garam masalla. 
This is a very tasteful preparation 

THOR GHANTA. 

Peel and chop about a foot of the tender solid white 
-stem in the core of a banar.a plant, called thor, into 

very fine pieces removing every time the thread-like 
■substances that come out. Mix them thoroughly with 
-salt and turmeric. Wait for an hour or so till water 

trickles out. Remove the water by squeezing. Boil 

them and drain off the water. Then the preparation 

is the same as in the case of mocha-ghanta. 



42 INDIAN COOK'ERY AND' CONFECTIONERY 

LAU POST A. 

■ \t . ■ , , ' 

Peel and chop, a very tender pumpkin into finepieqes-^ 
Pieces of tender . shoots and leaves of pumpkin may, also 
be used. Boil them and drain off the water. Boil some 
mustard oil with a few red chillies and pour in the boiled 
mass with i powa or more of poppy seed and 2|- tolas or 
more of ginger, both pasted. Add a little water if 
necessary. When it boils add salt and browned broken 
bori. Cooking finishes when the soup dries up. 

NARIKEL KUMRI. 

Peel and cut a small ripe sweet gourd into small' 
and thin pieces throwing away the interior portion. 
Scrape out a ripe cocoanut kernel. Brown ij seer of 
the pieces of gourd in oil and add cocoanut, i powa or 
more of milk, sugar 2^ tolas, salt 2 tolas, powdered cori- 
ander 3 tolas and cumin i tola. ' When no soup remains, 
season the curry with ^ powa of ghee heated with a, 
few cassia leaves, red chillies and powdered garam- 
masalla. Take care that the curry may not turn black 
at the slightest delay or over-heating. 

COCOANUT. 

Take out the kernel of a ripe cocoanut, peel off the 
skin, and cut in small pieces. Mix turmeric and salt^ 
and brown a little with oil. Then add an equal quantity^ 
of browned pieces of peeled potatoes. Also add pow- 
dered pepper, cumin, coriander, ginger, salt and water- 
in adequate quantities. Seaspn the curry when it is 



INDIAN COOKERY AND' CONFECTIONERY 43: 

boiled with ghee, or oil heated with .a few red chiUies- 
and cassia leaves. Add powdered garam-masalla and- 
itake down- when no soup is left. 

GHEE-CHAMPA, 

Required S— Champa-note sak i seer, ghee i powa^. 
garam-masalla ^ tola, minced ginger i chhatak, coriander 
I tola, salt I tola pepper | tola, a pinch of panch-foron. 

Method t — Dissolve salt in a tea-cup of water and 
boil the sak in it. Boil ghee in a pan with the minced 
ginger and parich-foron, and add into it the boiled sak 
and powdered coriaiider and pepper, and stir thoroughly 
for a few minutes till the sak are non-sticky. Add pow- 
dered garam-maSalla and take down. Other saks also- 
may be prepared in the same way. 

MOCHA DALNA. 

Chop one or two banana flowers into very fine pieces,, 
boil them and drain off the water. Then mix powdered. 
coriander, red chillies, pepper, cumin, turmeric and salt 
in adequate quantities with the boiled mass. Boil some 
ghee or oil with a few cassia leaves and a pinch of cumin, 
and add pieces of potatoes and a handful of moistened 
grams. Add the mocha when the potatoes are slightly 
browned, stir for a few minutes, and pour in water. 
When it boils add scraped out cocoanut kernel, browned 
broken bori, a little milk and sugar. Take down aftef 
adding powdered garam-masalla. 



44 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

MOCHA PATURI. 

Required t — Chopped mocha ^ seer, poppy seed 
1 powa, mustard oil |- powa, sesame i chhatak, salt i.|- 
-tolas, a few green chillies: ' ' ' 

Methods — Keep the chopped mocha foi- a couple 
-of hours in water. Then boil them in fresh water and 
squeeze off the water. Mix pasted poppy seed, oil, 
entire sesame, salt and pieces of chillies with them. 
Place this mass in a flat round shape, one inch thick, 
•on 3 or 4 layers of banana leaves and co\"er it also in 
the same way. Bind it, place it on a frying pan and 
apply mild heat alternately on both sides of the cake 
for about half an hour. Excessive heat will burn the outer 
:surfaces, the interior remaining uncooked, in spite of the 
several layers of banana leaves which are placed to 
prevent the burning of the cake. This cake is very 
palatable. 

KULIA with MUN LEAVES, 

Make a thick solution of pasted pulses of peas or 
grams and dip pieces, i or i-J- inch square, of very 
tender leaves of amrita mun into it, and fry them in 
ghee or oil. Boil some ghee with a few cassia leaves 
.and pour in water with powdered coriander, ginger, 
pepper, cumin and turmeric. When it boils add the 
fried pieces and salt. Take down after adding powdered 
garam-masalla when no soup is left. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 45; 

KULIA with PATOL. 

Required : — Patol ^ seer^ ghee -j- powa^ coriander 
I tola, pepper, cumin, garam-masalla, and turmeric ^ tola 
each, salt i tola, curd i chhatak, a few cassia leaves. 

Method : — Skin the patois very thin and cut both 
ends longitudinally and vertically to one another to a 
quarter of their lengths so that salt ar d spices may enter 
into them. Brown them in ghee. Boil some ghee in 
another pan with a few cassia leaves and then pour in. 
water with powdered turmeric, pepper, cumin, coriander 
and salt. When it boils add patol and curd and cover 
the pan. Add powdered garam-masalla and take down, 
when the soup is thick 

POTATO with PATOL. 

Skin the vegetables very thin and cut the patois in 
two and the potatoes in big pieces. Brown the pieces of 
vegetables and some green peas in ghee or oil and then, 
pour in water with powdered turmeric, coriander, pepper, . 
cumin, red chillies and salt. Cover the pan. Season the 
curry with ghee boiled with a few cassia leaves and red 
chillies when the vegetables are boiled. Add powdered 
garam-masalla and take down when the soup is thick. 
Pieces of sweet gourd may be used as a substitute for 
patol and moistened grams for green peas when a pinch 
of sugar should be added. 

PANIFAL ( Water-chestnut ). 

Required : — Panifal i seer, potato 1^ powa, a ripe 
eocoanut, a handful of grams, bori i chhatak, ghee- 



4-6 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

4" powa^ coriander i tola, salt i tola^ turmeric, pepper, 
cumin and garam-masalla ^ tola each, a few cassia leaves, 
a pinch of sugar, water about i powa and a little milk. 

Method : — Peel the vegetables, cut the potatoes in 
medium pieces and half the kernel of the cocoanut in 
small pieces. Slightly brown the panifal, potato, cocoanut 
.and moistened grams in ghee and then add water with 
powdered turmeric, coriander, pepper, cumin and salt. 
After a time add browned bori, a little milk and a pinch 
of sugar. Season the curry when it is boiled with ghee 
heated with a few cassia leaves and cardamom seeds. 
-Add powdered garam-masalla and take down when the 
soup is thick. 

DAM with KAROLA 

Required : — -Karola |- seer, pepper, cumin and garam- 
masalla ^ tola each, coriander i tola, salt i tola, ginger 
■| tola, turmeric ^ tola, curd ^ powa, sugar -J powa, ghee 
■I powa, a ripe cocoa-nut and a few cassia leaves. 

Method % — Scrape out the kernel of the cocoanut, mix 
them with sugar, pasted ginger and garam-masalla and 
fry them with ghee. Then remove the seeds from the 
tender karolas by cutting off one end of each, fill the 
hollows with this stuff and close the ends with a little 
flour paste. Fry them in ghee. Boil some ghee in 
another pan with the cassia leaves and powdered pepper, 
cumin, coriander and turmeric. Then add the curd, 
sugar and a little hot water. Add the karolas and salt 
when it boils. Take down when the soup is thick after 
^adding powdered garam-masalla. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 47 

DAM with POTATO. 

Required t — Potato ^ seer, ghee i chhatak, curd 
I chhatak, almonds 2^ tolas, coriander i tola, salt i tola, 
-pepper, turmeric, sugar and garam-masalla ^ tola each, 
a little lemon-juice. 

Method % — Boil ghee in a pan and brown the pieces 
•of potatoes in it. Then add to them almonds, coriander, 
pepper, turmeric, salt and lemon-juice, all pasted together, 
and stir for a few minutes more. Then add curd and 
sugar and stir for two minutes more. Add water. Add 
powdered garam-masalla when the soup is thick. Then 
take down, 

DAM with MOCHA. 

Required ; — Chopped mocha ^ seer, ghee i chhatak, 
-curd I chhatak, salt i tola, coriander, cumin, ginger, 
poppy- seed, garam-masalla and sugar ^ tola each, pepper 
^ tola, turmeric -j- tola, a few cassia leaves. 

Method : — Keep the chopped mocha in water for a 
few hours. Bind them with a few cassia leaves in a 
•clean piece of cloth and suspend the ball in a pan half 
full of water so that it does not touch the bottom. Cover 
the lid and boil for half an hour. Then boil some ghee in 
a pan, add ground poppy-seed, ginger, coriander, pepper, 
■cumin and last of all the boiled mocha in it, and stir 
for a few minutes. Add turmeric, salt, curd, sugar and 
a little water Cover the lid and boil on mild heat. 
Boil some ghee and fry the powdered garam-masalla 
in it, and season the curry with this. Stir thoroughly 



48 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

and take down. A paste or pieces of onions may be- 
added with the spices if desired. 

ENCHOR. 

First rub the hands with a little oil so that the gum- 
may not stick. Peel the skin thickly off one or two- 
tender green jack-fruits and cut in small pieces throwing 
away the central stem. Boil them with water. Boil some 
oil and brown pieces of peeled potatoes ( half the quantity 
ofenchor or more) in it. Then add the boiled enchor 
and stir for a minute. Add water with powdered 
coriander^ pepper, cumin, turmeric, red chillies and salt 
in adequate quantities. Add browned bori when it boils 
and put the lid on. Season the curry with ghee boiled 
with a few cassia leaves, red chillies and panch-foron. A 
little milk and sugar may be added. Take down when a 
little soup remains after adding a little more ghee and- 
powdered garam-masalla. 

CHHANA and DKONKA. 

Take some chhana and drain off the water under high 
pressure. Then cut the chhana in rectangular pieces half 
inch thick and brown them in ghee or oil. Mix some 
flour with the chhana if it fails to take the form. Brown 
some medium pieces of peeled potatoes in oil or ghee 
and add pasted coriander, pepper, turmeric, ginger and salt 
in adequate quantities. Add a little curd and water after 
a time. Add browijed chhana when it boils. Season the 
curry with a little ghee boiled with a few cassia lea\es.. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 49 

and red ".chillies. Add some more ghee and powdered 
garam-mavalla before taking down. Keep a little thick 
soup. 

A paste of moistened pulses ( without husks ) of grams 
is a good substitute for chhana. This paste may be 
mixed with pressed chhana if desired. Mi.x; this paste 
with salt and beat thoroughly, otherwise it will be stiff. 
Cut this paste in pieces, brown them and cook with 
potatoes as described above. This curry with pulses is 
called dhonka. 



FRIES. 
KAROLA or UCH-CHHE. 

Cut the karolas in thin slices and rub powdered 
turmeric and a Httle salt. Heat some oil in a pan till 
the foams die out. Then add the slices a few at a time so 
that they may remain merged in oil. Brown the other 
side by turning the slices over with any flat utensil like 
the wrong end of a spoon when one side is browned. The 
heat should be slow, or the slices will parch in the surface 
while the interior will remain uncooked, especially if the 
slices are thick. Slices of karolas may be first boiled in 
water and then fried. This will make them soft and not 
crisp. 

NEEM LEAVES. 

Fry tender neem leaves in boiling oil as before with 
salt. If you like you may add pieces of brinjals after a 
time and fry along with them. Tender leaves are available 
and should be taken during the change of season after 
winter, when small-pox breaks out in an epidemic form, 
as they are preventive of the malady. 

MUN or OL ( Arum ). 

Peel the arum thickly and cut in big pieces. Dry 
them in the sun and boil in a solution of tamarind or 
other acidic substance so that the)' ma\' not irritate the 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 5 1 

mucous membranes of the mouth and throat due to the 
presence of the microscopic needle-like crystals called 
raphides in them. Then smear the boiled pieces with 
ground turmeric and salt, and fry in boiling oil. 

MIRA CHACH-CHARl. 

A tasteful preparation is made of the peelings of 
potato, sweet gourd, jhinga, green banana, tender 
pumpkin, etc., and is generally taken with fried rice. 
Cut them in small pieces, wash thoroughly, and boil in 
water. Drain the water, which contains vitamin, in a cup 
when the peelings are boiled. Fry them with oil. Then 
a.dd the water in which they were boiled with salt, ground 
turmeric, red chillies, and mustard or cumin Stir and 
.take down when no soup is left. 

BEANS. 

Cut the two ends and peel off the hard fibres from the 
two edges, if there are any. Boil in saline water, smear 
-ground turmeric, and fry with oil. 

BRINJALS. 

Cut a few tender brinjals in very big pieces, smear 
salt and ground turmeric, and fry in oil. 

Or cut the brinjals in thin slices, dip them in a thick 
solution of pulse-meal ( besam ) thoroughly beaten, with 
salt some poppy-seeds, a few black-cumin and aniseeds, 
all entire, and fry them in plenty of boiling oil or ghee till 
brown. Pieces of sweet gourd, potato, patol, etc. may be 
fried in the same way. Eat while hot. 



52 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERV 

CAULIFLOWERS. 

Cut them in medium pieces, wash and boil in water, 
mear ground turmeric and salt, and fry them in oil. 

Or, dip them, boiled or not, in a thick solution of 
esam as before, and fry in oil to crispness. Serve while 
hot. 

COCOANUT 

Break the stone of a ripe cocoarnut and bring out the 
kernel with a knife. Remove the brown skin of the 
kernel and cut it in small pieces. Smear ground turmeric 
and salt, and brown them in oil. 

CUCUMBER. 

Peel and cut into two halves a well developed 
cucumber. Remove the seeds and cut into slices. Smear 
with ground turmeric and salt, fry in oil. Sprinkle water 
from time to time to make them soft. 

FRIED DAL or DHONKA. 

Pulses of grams, peas and khesari are particularly 
suited for this purpose. Keep them moistened under 
water for a few hours. Grind them to a paste. Mix salt 
and bind it in a clean piece of cloth. Drop it in boiling 
rice or boiling water. Remove it when boiling is complete. 
Mix some entire aniseeds and black cumin, and press it 
irito a flat disc half inch thick. Cut into small pieces cind 
fry them in ghee or oil. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 53 

FLOWERS of SWEET GOURD. 

Remove the stalks and sepals of the flowers. Dip them 
in a thick solution of pulse-meal or rice-flower mixed 
with a little salt and some black-cuiiiin. Fry them one by 
one or a few at a time in excess of oil. 

POTATOES and ONIONS. 

Peel and chop some potatoes and onions in thin 
pieces and fry them in oil with salt. They will be crisp. 
Sprinke water several times when they are turning brown 
if softness is desired. 

Or^ mi.x ground turmeric, salt and a few minced green 
■chillies with the chopped vegetables and fry them in oil. 
Stir the vegetables .so that they may brown uniformly. 

Potatoes and onions can be fried separately in the 
same manner. 

SWEET POTATOES 

Peel and cut ir.to thin slices, and fry with salt as 
usual in oil. 

TURNIP and CARROT. 

Peel, slice and boil them in water mixed with ground 
turmeric and salt. Then fry the boiled pieces in ghee or 
oil or dip them in a thick solution of pulse-meal or 
beaten contents of eggs, with salt, and fry in excess of 
oiJ. Slices of sweet green chillies," melons, etc., may be 
fried in a siniilar way without previous boiling. 



BARA 
with PALTA- 

"Bara" is a general name for fried preparations in the 
form of small cakes. Make a paste of some moistened pulse 
of khesari nr peas with some palta leaves. Mix salt and 
beat. Form cakes of it and fiy. They will taste very 
bitter if too many leaves are used. Alternatively, dip the 
leaves in a very thick solution of pulse-meal with salt and 
fry to crispness in plenty of oil. They are very tasteful to 
one suffering- from loss of appetite. 

with OL or MUN. 

Peel and dry them in the sun for 2 or 3 days. Boil 
in water with a little lemon juice and grind them to a 
paste. Add powdered red chillies, aniseeds, salt and 
powdered rice or flour, beat thoroughly, form into cakes 
and fry. 

with BRINJALS. 

Boil a few tender brinjals in water or in rice, remove 
the stalks and peel. Mi.x- with minced green chillies, 
onions, salt and rice-flour and beat. Form into cakes- 
and fry in oil. 

with CHHANA 

Drain off the water from the chhana by pre -sure. Mijc 
powdered turmeric, salt and a little flour, form into cakes. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 55 

and fry. If some pasted pulses of khesari are mixed 
instead of flour and thorough!)- beaten, the cakes will 
swell and be very crisp. 

with COCOA-NUT. 

Break the stone of a ripe cocoa-nut and scrape out the 
kernel with a toothed iron grater. Grind them again into 
a paste. Add powdered turmeric, salt, a few entire black- 
cumin and aniseed. Mix thoroughly. Form cakes of 
the paste and fry. 

with DAL. 

Wash and keep some pulse of khesari, peas or grams 
under water for a few hours. Then grind the moistened 
pulse into a paste with red chillies and onions. Add 
entire aniseed, salt, and powdered turmeric. Beat well, 
form cakes of it and fry in plenty^if oil , 

with KANCHA-TIL. 

Wash and keep them under water for a while. Grind 
into a paste. Add either powdered rice or flour or pulse- 
meal, and salt and entire aniseed. Beat thoroughly, form 
into cakes and fry. The black skin may be removed by 
drying them after they are moistened and then rubbing 
them with the hands. Then proceed as before with the 
husked sesames 

with ONIONS. 

Make a paste of pulse-meal, salt and ground red 
chillies. Add some onions chopped into fine pieces and 
beat thoroughly. Form cakes and fry them in plenty of oil. 



56 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

with POTATOES. 

Boil the potatoes and then peel them.. Rub them into 
a paste and mix powdered pepper^ red chillies and salt. 
Powdered turmeric also may be used. Form thin cakes 
and dip them into a thick solution of besam with salt or 
into the contents of eggs beaten with salt^ and fry them 
in plenty of oil. Or slice the boiled potatoes and dip them 
into either of the two and fry them similarly. Slices of 
gourd, brinjal, patol, etc., without boiling, may be dipped 
and fried similarly. Or slice the boiled potatoes into thin 
discs, smear salt and turmeric, and fry in a little oil. 

Or heat some ghee with a few red chillies and brown 
a little in it pieces of some raw potatoes. Then add 
powdered pepper, turmeric and salt. Stir a little and add 
water. Add a little more ghee when the water dries Up, 
stir for a while and take down. This is called alu 
chach-chari. 

with SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil them in water, peel and rub into a paste Add 
some powdered rice or flour, salt, sugar and powdered 
black-cumin and aniseed, and mix thoroughly. Form 
cakes and fry in oil. A little khowa kheer mixed with 
sugar may be put inside each cake. 

Fried cakes can be made similarly with many other 
vegetables. Any of them may be attempted along the 
lines already explained, and variations in the combination 
of spices may be tried to suit the taste. 



EGGS- 
AMRIT. 

' Mix equal weights of sugar and water, and boil. If 
^ little milk is added the impurities will rise to the surface 

in the form of scum, which is to be removed from time to 
"time, and the syrup will be clear. Take down when the 
syrup is a bit sticky. 

Take the yolks of some eggs in a cup, add powdered 
garam-masalla, a little saffron and sugar, and beat 
thoroughly. Put the liquid in a clean thick linen piece 
with a small round hole in the middle and tie it up into a 
bag putting a thumb under the hole. Remove the thumb, 
press the bag with the lingers and allow the liquid to fall 
in a thin stream on plenty of boiling ghee. Any beauti- 
ful design may be made by the proper manipulation of 
the hand which requires some practice. Take them out 
as soon as they are fried hard on both sides and put them 
in the syrup of sugar. They are ready to be served when 
sufficient syrup is absorbed by them. The whole of the 
contents of eggs may be used when a little more saffron 
will loe necessary but the food will not be so tasteful as 
with the yolks only. 

AMRITTI. 

Keep some rice -flour moistened with water for seyeral 
liours. Mix it with double its quantity of the contents c^f 



58 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

eggs and beat thoroughly. Add a little saffron for colour- 
ing and proceed as before. 

EGG-BARA. 

Take the contents of a few fresh eggs in a pot, add 
fried and powdered garara-masalla and cumin^ finely" 
chopped onions, minced ginger and a little besam, and 
beat thoroughly. Form small thin cakes of it and fry in 
boiling ghee. Take them out with a spoon when they 
are brown. 

EGG BARA with SOUP. 

Brown some pieces of potatoes in ghee and add: 
powdered pepper, cumin, turmeric, ginger and salt with 
water. Add fried egg-baras prepared as before, on boiling. 
Season the curry with boiling ghee with minced onions, 
red chillies and cloves fried in it. Boil for some time more. 
Add ghee and powdered garam-masalla, and take dowrL 
with some soup. 

EGG BARA with GREEN BANANA. 

Boil a developed green banana and peel it. Now 
make a muddy paste with the boiled banana, the contents 
of 3 eggs, minced onions, a little besam, salt, ginger- 
juice, powdered turmeric, aniseed and black-cumin by 
beating them thoroughly. Form small cakes of it and fry 
to crispness in ghee or oil. Serve while hot. 

BARFI- 

Mix some sugar with the contents of a few eggs and 
beat thoroughly. Smear the interior surface of an. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 59^ 

enamelled pot w ith ghee and pour the liquid into it. Place 
this pot on hot water to coagulate the liquid. Then cut 
it into cubes and immerse in a syrup of sugar. 

BOILED EGGS 

Drop a few eggs, after washing them, in boiling rice- 
Pick out when the rice is ready, shell and serve them 
with powdered pepper and salt. They may be mixed' 
with similarly boiled potatoes and taken with rice. 

The less the eggs are boiled the more assimilable they 
are. Unboiled eggs should be washed with hot water 
before taking as they may be contaminated by germs- 
of disease. Half boiling requires 3 to 3^ minutes of light 
boiling, 4 minutes lightly coagulate the white while 5 
minutes set it firmly. Hard boiled eggs, used for curries, 
require 10 minutes, Eggs may also be half boiled by 
removing a pot of boiling water from the oven andi 
keeping the eggs in it for about 5 minutes. 

CHHANCH 

Fry a half cap of khowa kheer in ghee and grind it 
finely. Mix it with two cups of the contents of eggs 
some sugar, cardamom seeds, raisins, pasted almonds- 
and a little rose water, and beat thoroughly. Take a few 
casting moulds for shaping and .';mear their interior 
surfaces with a little ghee. Stuff them v\ ith the mixture, 
close them with a little flour-paste and boil in water for 
about 15 minutes. Then open the joints of the moulds: 
and the food is ready to be served. 



•6o INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFFXTIONERY 

EGG-CHOP 

Boil some potatoes, peel and rub them to a paste. Mix 
with an equal quantity of egg-contents. Add minced 
■onions, a little besam, ginger-juice, salt, powdered pepper 
and red chillies. Mix thoroughly. Form cakes, dip them 
into a cup containing beaten egg-contents, roll on 
powdered biscuits or bread crumbs, and finally fry in 
plenty of boiling ghee. 

EGGCUTLETS. 

Shell and slice some hard boiled eggs into four pieces. 
Dip them into a very thick solution of besam with a little 
powdered turmeric and salt, and fry in plenty of ghee till 
they are brown. Again dip them into a cup containing 
egg-contents beaten with powdered turmeric, ginger-juice 
and onion-juice, and then roll on powdered biscuit or 
suji ( middlings), and fry as before. 

DALNA with EGGS 

Shell some hard-boiled eggs and brown them, entire 
■or- halved, with ghee. Then brown some big pieces of 
potatoes and add to them powdered pepper, cumin, 
coriander, turmeric and salt. Stir a little and add water. 
Add eggs on boiling. Fry chopped onions, red chillies 
and cassia leaves in some ghee and season the curry with 
these. Boil for some time more. Add powdered garam- 
:masalla before takine down. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONER V 6t\ 

DEVIL with EGGS. 

Shell some hard-boiled eggs and bring o.ut the yolks by- 
cutting a little on one side. Boil some ghee and add a 
few cassia leaves, cloves and cardamom seeds. When the 
smell of the spices evolves add some minced meat mixed 
with some minced onions, ginger-juice, powdered 
turmeric, coriander, garam-masalla and .salt. Singe the 
meat till the water evaporates. Mix with a little .sugar 
before taking down. Then stuff the hollows of the boiled 
eggs with this spiced meat and close the openings with a 
little flour paste. Brown the eggs in ghee and serve 
with pasted mustard, pieces of cucumber, sliced onions,, 
boiled potatoes, etc. 

DHONKA with EGGS. 

Smear the interior .surface of a cup with ghee and' 
pour into it the contents of some eggs. Place the cup. 
on hot water covered with a lid and take it down when 
hard boiled. Cut in small squares and fry in ghee or 
oil. Cut the kernel of a ripe cocoa-nut in small pieces,_ 
smear ground turmeric and .salt, and fr)-. After this 
brown some pieces of potatoes and add water with corian- 
der, pepper, cumin, turmeric, ginger, onions and salt, 
all ground to a paste. Add the pieces of cocoa-nut and 
eggs on boiling. Fry cassia leaves, minced onions and red 
chillies in ghee and season the curry with them. Add 
powdered garam-masalla before finish. It is very taste- 
ful and gives the wrong impression ofchhana to taste,, 
hence its name 'Dhonka' meaning illusion. 



•62 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

DHONKA with EGGS and BANANAS. 

Prepare egg-baras with green bananas as before. 
Browp. pieces of potatoes in ghee or oil, and cook as 
''Dhonka with Eggs' without ginger. 

DOLMA with EGGS 

Shell a few hard-boiled eggs, mince finely and add 
to them salt, ginger-juice, miiiced onions, powdered tur- 
meric, red chillies, pepper, almonds, raisins and a few 
-entire aniseeds and cardamom seeds. Mix thoroughly. 
Boil ghee with a pinch of sugar and fry this in it. 

Skin some patois by rubbing against the blunt edge 
-of a knife. Cut off one or both ends and remove the 
seeds with a pin. Then fill up the hollows with the egg 
■already prepared. Close the ends with a little flour- 
paste Dip them into liquid beaten egg-contents, roll 
on bread crumbs or powdered biscuits, and hy in plenty 
■of ghee. 

EGG with MEAT. 

Wash some big pieces of meat and mix with them 
salt, curd, turmeric, pepper, cumin, coriander, red-chillies, 
garam-masalla, ginger, onions, all ground to a paste. 
Boil some ghee and add the meat. Allow it to simmer 
till the water evaporates. Now beat the contents of a 
few eggs with salt, powdered turmeric, pasted onion and 
ginger juice, dip each piece of meat into it, roll on pow- 
■ dered biscuit and fry in plenty of ghee. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 63 

EGG FRY 

Shell a few hard-boiled eggs and cut them length- 
"wise and crosswise on both ends. Smear with powdered 
or pasted turmeric and salt. Dip them into a very thick 
solution of flour or powdered rice mixed with salt, and 
fry in plenty of ghee. The eggs may also be halved 
and fried. 

EGG FRY with BRINJALS. 

Cut tender brinjals in slices of medium thickness and 
Tub with salt and powdered turmeric. Leave them for 
some time till they are soft. Then dip them into contents 
of eggs beaten with salt, roll on middlings and fry in 
plenty of ghee or oil. 

EGG FRY with CAULIFLOWERS. 

Cut the flowers in small pieces and boil them in 
"water with salt and ground turmeric. Dip them into 
the contents of eggs beaten with salt and ground turmeric, 
roll on powdered bread or biscuit and fry in plenty of 
ghee or oil. Poppy seeds, minced onions and green 
■chillies may be mixed with egg-contents if desired. 

with COCOA-NUT. 

Scrape out the kernel of a ripe cocoa-nut and mix with 
salt, turmeric, red chillies, raisins, almonds and moistened 
pulses of grams, all powdered or pasted. Beat thoroughly, 
form cakes, dip into beaten egg-contents and fry. 



64 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

with FLOWERS of GOURD. 

Remove the stalks, placentas and sepals of the flowers^ 
-dip them into the contents of eggs beaten with salt^ 
minced onions, ground turmeric and a little besam or 
rice-flour, and fry. Serve while hot and crisp, 

with MUN LEAVES. 

Cut very tender leaves of amrita mun in big squares, 
and boil in water. Then dip them into a thick solution 
of besam beaten with salt, powdered red chillies and 
turmeric, and fry in ghee or oil. Again dip them into 
contents of eggs beaten with salt and ground turmeric 
and fry. 

Kulia, as will be described later, may be prepared 
with these and potatoes. 

with PATOL. 

Dip skinned patois into liquid egg-contents beaten 
with powdered turmeric, ginger-juice and salt, roll on 
powdered bread or biscuits and fry in ghee. Thin slices, 
of peeled potatoes may be fried in the same way. 

GHUGNI. 

Shell some hard-boiled eggs and cut in small pieces. 
Also cut some potatoes in small pieces. Smear powdered 
turmeric and salt with them separately. Brown the 
potatoes fully and the eggs slightly in ghee. Again boil 
ghee with a few red chillies and add full}- moistened big; 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 65 

sized peas. Add ground red chillies, turmeric, pepper 
and cumin, and stir. Add water and salt after a time. 
Add potatoes and eggs on boiling. Add powdered garam- 
masalla and take down when no soup is left. Serve 
while hot. There are no fixed, proportions of the 
ingredients. 

HALUA or MOHON-BHOG with EGGS. 

Brown i powa of middlings with ^ powa of ghee and 
cool them a little. Then add the liquid contents of 8 ducks' 
eggs beaten with i powa of sugar and very little saffron, 
and heat on mild charcoal fire. Add powdered garam- 
masalla and very little camphor when the mass is thick, 
and stir on till the desired thickness is reached, Egg- 
halua is now ready to be served. 

KULIA with EGGS. 

Required : — 8 eggs, potatoes ^ seer, onions i powa, 
peas, green or moistened, |- powa, ghee or oil ^ powa, 
coriander, ginger and salt i tola each, turmeric, pepper 
and cumin |- tola each, garam-masalla ^ tola, a few 
cassia leaves and red chillies. 

Method % — Shell 8 hard-boiled eggs and cut in halves. 
Cut the potatoes in big pieces and the onions in small 
ones after peeling them. Brown the eggs and onions 
separately. Then brown potatoes and peas together, 
and add turmeric, coriander, pepper, cumin, ginger, red 
chillies and salt, all pasted together, with water. Add 
eggs ^^"^^ onions when the curry is half-boiled. Season 
it with ghee or oil with a few cassia leaves, red chillies 

5 



66 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

and cloves fried in it. Add ghee and powdered garam- 
masalla and take down while a little soup remains. 

KOPTA with EGGS. 

Take the contents of a few eggs and mix salt, ginger- 
juice, onion-juice, powdered red chillies, turmeric, pepper, 
cumin and cardamom, and fried pieces of almonds. Add 
a little flour, if necessary, and beat thoroughly to make 
it a muddy paste. Form cakes, dip them into beaten 
egg-contents and fry in plenty of ghee. Serve while hot 
with mustard, chopped onions, pieces of cucumber, etc. 

MALIDA. 

Add the contents of 3 or 4 fresh eggs to ^ seer of 
flour and rub thoroughly Add some water and knead 
the flour into a dough. Form small balls of it and roll 
them into very thin and round discs. Heat them a little 
in a shallow pan 2 or 3 at a time and then bake them 
on charcoal fire. Smear ghee and again heat them a 
little in a pan. Serve with honey or sugar. 

MILK with EGG. 

Pour the contents of a fresh egg in a cup of hot milk 
and mix thoroughly. Add a little sugar to taste. This 
diet is an excellent body-builder and should be taken 
every morning. 

MILK-BREAD with EGGS. 

Boil about 3 seers of milk with i^ powa of sugar till it 
is Mlved, Th?n ^dd a loaf weighing ^ seer, the content^ 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 67 

of a few fresh eggs and a little rose water, and mix 
thoroughly. Heat it on charcoal fire till thick when 
milk-bread will be ready to be served. 

NECK-TIE ( Egg with fish ). 

Boil a few pieces of fresh fish in water mixed with 
ground turmeric and salt. Remove the bones and rub 
some boiled and peeled potatoes with the fish. Add salt, 
powdered pepper and turmeric, juice of ginger and onion, 
fried pieces of almonds and raisins, and the contents of a 
few eggs. Also add a little rice-flour, if necessary, and 
beat thoroughly. Form flat cakes, dip into beaten egg- 
contents, roll on middlings or powdered biscuit, and fry 
in plenty of ghee. Serve while hot. 

OMELETTES 

Mix minced onions, green chillies, powdered turmeric, 
pepper and salt thoroughly with the contents of an egg 
and pour it on a little hot ghee in a pan. Tilt the pan 
so that it spreads evenly thick and fry both sides till 
light brown. Roll it up, press flat and fry till golden 
brown. 

EGG POACH. 

Pour the contents of an egg on hot ghee or oil in a 
pan so that the yolk falls entire and in the centre. 
Trim the sides, if necessary, round the yolk. Take 
it out instead of turning over when the lower side is 
browned. Serve with ground pepper and sa]t;, 



68 'INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

- Or/drop* tfie contents of an egg keeping the yolk 
entire on boiling water. Tilt the pan to give it a plump 
appearance. Take the egg out as soon as the white is 
set. Serve with ground pepper and salt. 

PROLEHA. 

: .-;: Sheila few hard-boiled eggs and cut them into 4 or 
^ slices each. Boil some ghee with a few cloves and 
■singe' the eggs in it a little. Then add curd^ pasted 
gih^er^ pepper and coriander. Add salt and water a 
little later. Add ghee and garam-masalla, and take 
down when the soup is thick. 

RAS-BARA. 

Mix almonds, raisins, cardamom seeds, aniseeds and 
bread crumbs, all powdered or pasted, with the contents 
of a few eggs and beat thoroughly. Form balls, fry in 
plenty of ghee and drop them into a syrup of sugar. 
Keep them there for half an hour or so till the syrup 
reaches its centre. Then serve. 



FISH. 
FRIES of FISHES. 

Remove the flakes, fins, gills, etc. from the body of 
the fish. Cut it near the head and bring out the intes- 
tines keeping the gall-bladder intact, otherwise the fish 
will taste bitter. Then cut the fish in big pieces and 
wash them thoroughly. Smear powdered turmeric and 
salt. Heat mustard oil ( oil is good for cooking fishes 
whereas ghee is for meat ) in a pan till the bubbles die 
out and the vapour of the oil arises. Then drop the 
pieces of fish in it and fry to crispness. They must not 
be turned over till one side is thoroughly browned, other- 
wise they will be broken to pieces. Make deep cuts 
lengthwise on both sides in cases of climbing fishes, 
Fries of scaleless fishes are not generally very tasteful. 
Small fishes are very tasteful as fries. Hilsa is a very 
oily fish and does not require much oil for frying, as oil 
comes out from the pieces of fish while frying. This oil 
may be used for frying other pieces, it is also taken with 
rice with sufficient salt. 

FRY of LOBSTERS or SHRIMPS. 

Shrimps are of difierent sizes. The biggest ones are 
called galda chingri. Remove the scales except that on 
the head and wash thoroughly. Then remove that on 
the head, make a deep cut lengthwise and stuff' it with 



^O iiMDIAiM COOKERY ANd CONFECTIONERY 

powdered pepper, salt and minced potatoes. Dip it into 
the liquid contents of eggs beaten with salt and powdered 
turmeric^ roll on flour and fry on mild heat. 

FRY of FISH ROES. 

Take out the roes of the fish and wash gently with 
water without damaging them. Smear powdered turme- 
ric and salt, and fry them entire or piecemeal. Or, dip 
the pieces into egg-contents beaten with powdered 
turmeric and salt, roll on bread crumbs and fry. Roes 
ofhilsa fish are very tasteful when thus fried. They 
may also be beaten with salt, powdered turmeric and a 
little besam, and fried in cakes like bara. Roes of clim- 
bing fish and other small fishes should not be taken out. 

EUROPEAN FRY. 

Smear big pieces of fish with minced or ground 
ginger, onion, turmeric and salt, dip them into egg-con- 
tents beaten with powdered turmeric and salt, roll on 
bread crumbs and fry in hot ghee or butter. 

FRY of the INTESTINES of FISH. 

The intestines of only big and quite fresh fishes are 
to be taken. Remove the dark portions containing the 
undigested -foods and wash, Mix with powdered turmeric 
and salt, and fry in oil. This is taken with rice or used 
to season sak chach-chari of every kind. Or, cut in 
big pieces, mix with salt and turmeric, dip into a well- 
beaten paste of besam and fry. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 7 1 

JHURI. 

Smear powdered turmeric and salt with big pieces 
of fish and fry a little with oil. Break the pieces in 
small fragments while frying and remove the bones. Add 
ginger-juice, minced chillies and onions. Fry to crispness. 
Or, boil the pieces, remove the bones, mix with powdered 
or pasted chillies, onions, ginger, turmeric and salt, and 
fry in oil. 

BOILED FISH 

Rub powdered turmeric and salt on pieces of fish and 
boil in the minimum quantity of water. Remove the boned 
and mix to a paste with powdered mustard, mustard oil 
and a little more salt, if necessary. Serve with slici^ 
onions. 

SHRIMPS BOILED in RICE. 

Required ; — Shrimps ^ seer, salt, mustard and cori- 
ander I" tola each, a few red chillies, a little turmeric and 
mustard oil. 

Remove all the scales and the tips of the heads, and 
wash. Smear them with salt, oil and all the spices pow- 
dered, and wrap up a bit loosely with a few pieces of 
tender banana leaves making water-tight with a little 
flour-paste, if necessary. Drop it gently in boiling rice 
and take out when rice are boiled. They are delicious 
and extremely soft, but difficult to digest. 



72 iNDtAN C06KERV AND cOnPECTIONErY 

HILSA FISH BOILED in RICE. 

Hilsa fish must not be washed after cutting it to 
pieces^ it is to be washed after flaking. Rub the pieces 
of fish with salt, powdered mustard, turmeric, a quantity 
of mustard oil and a few green chillies cut lengthwise. 
Wrap them up with banana leaves and boil as before. 
Tender leaves of gourd or pumpkin may be substituted 
for banana leaves and may be eaten with fish. It is a 
delicious curry. 

Or, break the stone of a half-ripe cocoa-nut in two 
and drain off the water. Stuff it with the pieces of fish 
rubbed with the spices, etc. Join the two parts with 
flour-paste and heat uniformly on all sides on charcoal 
fire. 

Or, wrap the pieces, after rubbing them with spices, 
etc., with banana leaves and put the bundle in the middle 
of a mass of hot boiled rice whose starchy water has just 
been drained off. Take out after 1 5 or 20 minutes. The 
fish may also be boiled in a cooker pan with advantage. 

Or, put the pieces in a shallow pot after preparing 
them in the same way. Close it with a lid and place on 
boiling water. The fish will be boiled within a short 
time. 

DAL with FISH. 

Pulses of both grams and moog are prepared 
with fishes. Big sized shrimps and fishes of the higher 
classes are used for this purpose. Shrimps are to be 
prepared keeping the scales on the heads and fried in 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERV 73 

oil. Pieces of big fish and its head, entire or divided, 
preferably that of Rohit, Katla or Bhetki fish, are also 
to be fried and the head is to be broken in small frag- 
ments. Salt and powdered turmeric are to be smeared on 
the pieces before frying. 

Wash fried moog-dal or chhola-dal and boil with 
water. Chhola-dal may be fried a little before boiling. 
Add cumin i^ tola, pepper i tola, turmeric i tola and 
salt 2 tolas, all powdered, for every seer of raw pulse 
when they are half-boiled. Then add the fried shrimps 
or pieces of fish or the broken head with the bones or 
both fish and head. Stir thoroughly. Then fry a few 
cassia leaves and red chillies with some ghee and pour 
these into the boiling dal. Boil till the dal is moderately 
thick. Add ghee and powdered garam-masalla, and stir 
before taking down. This is a very tasteful preparation. 

BARA with FISHES. 

Boil pieces of hilsa, chitol or any other big fish in 
water with a little powdered turmeric, and remove the 
bones. Add some besam or rice-flour, a little powdered 
turmeric, red chillies, ginger, salt and some minced onions, 
if desired, and beat thoroughly. Form cakes and drop 
them in boiling oil or ghee after the bubbles die out and 
the vapour arises. Fry till golden-brown. 

BARA with SHRIMPS. 

Scale the shrimps and shred off the flesh portions. 
Grind them to a paste with some rice or husked grams 



74 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

left moistened for several hours. Add powdered chillies 
and salt, mix thoroughly, form cakes, and fry in ghee or 
oil. Kulia or curry can be prepared .with these. 

BARA with SHRIMPS and COCOA-NUT. 

Make a paste of the flesh portions of a few big- 
sized shrimps with the kernel of a half-ripe cocoa-nut. 
Add some bread crumbs, minced onions, a little powdered 
turmeric, red chillies, salt and the contents of a fresh egg, 
and beat thoroughly. Form cakes and fry. These are 
very tasteful. 

BARA with ROES of FISH. 

Beat the roes of fishes with some besam, a little 
powdered turmeric, pepper or chillies, and salt. A little 
onion-juice or minced onion may be added. Form small 
balls or flat cakes and fry them in oil. 

BARA with FISH and EGG. 

Boil pieces of fish and remove the bones. Mix boiled 
and pasted potato about a third of the quantity of fish, 
proper quantities of powdered pepper, chillies and salt 
with the boiled fishes. Form cakes, dip into beaten egg- 
contents, roll on bread crumbs and fry in ghee. 

FISH-FULURI. 

Remove the bones from pieces of boiled fish and mix 
with a third of its quantity of boiled and minced potatoes, 
adequate quantities of salt, powdered almonds, pepper. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 75 

butter and eggs Beat thoroughly. Form cakes, roll on 
bread crumbs and fry with butter. Serve with lemon- 
juice. 

RAS-BARA of SHRIMPS. 

Make a paste of only the flesh portions of shrimps 
and add some flour, a little turmeric, lemon-juice, salt and 
mustard oil. Beat thoroughly. Make small balls of it 
and fry in plenty of ghee taking care that they do not 
get scorched. Drop the fried balls in a syrup of sugar. 
Serve when they are saturated with syrup. These baras 
are very soft and tasteful. 

FISH SWEETS. 

Required : — Fish ^ seer, potato i^ powa, milk and 
butter I chhatak [each, 3 or 4 hen's eggs, flour about 
I powa, salt I tola, syrup of sugar. 

Method s — Boil pieces of a big fish and remove the 
bones. Add boiled and pasted potatoes, then all the 
other ingredients and lastly flour little by little while 
beating the mass thoroughly. Form small balls and fry 
in ghee. Serve while hot. Or, prepare as above with 
only half the amount of salt and keep the fried balls 
immersed in a syrup of sugar till they are saturated. 
Then serve. 

COCOA-NUT with SHRIMPS. 

Remove the tips of the heads and all the scales of a 
few big sized lobsters or shrimps and wash. Rub them 
with powdered turmeric, chillies, pepper, cumin, ginger, 



76 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONPECTIONERV 

mustard, salt and mustard oil in small quantities. Minced 
onions may be used if desired. Stuff them into a half- 
ripe cocoa-nut stone broken in two with the kernel inside 
and the water drained off. Close the two parts with a 
little flour paste and boil in water for an hour or more. 
When opened the mass will be found to be a round ball 
and completely mixed up with the cocoa-nut kernel. It is 
a delicious food. 

DHONKA of SHRIMPS and COCOA NUT. 

Prepare a ball of cocoa-nut and shrimps as above, cut 
it in small cubes and fry in ghee or oil. Then brown 
some big pieces of potatoes and minced onions, and then 
add ground turmeric, coriander, pepper, cumin, ginger, 
salt and just enough water to cover the potatoes. On 
boiling add the fried pieces of cocoa-nut and shrimps. 
Season the curry with ghee boiled with a few cassia 
leaves and red chillies. Add powdered garam-masalla 
before taking down. 

MAYARANI of SHRIMPS. 

Prepare a ball of cocoa-nut and shrimps as before, cut 
it in rectangular pieces and brown them in ghee. Dip 
the browned pieces into liquid egg-contents beaten with 
salt, roll on bread crumbs and fry to crispness in ghee. 

UMARANI of SHRIMPS- 

Brown some big pieces of potatoes and minced onions 
in ghee or oil, add turmeric, cumin, pepper, chillies 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 77 

coriander^ all powdered, and salt and water. On boiling 
add the fried pieces called "Mayarani". Season the 
curry after a time with ghee boiled with a few cassia 
leaves and red chillies. Add ghee and powdered garam- 
masalla when the soup is thick and take down. 

DALNA of SHRIMPS and COCOA-NUT. 

Take the flesh portions of some shrimps and the kernel 
of a ripe cocoa-nut in the proportion 2 to i respectively 
and grind them to a paste. Add some pasted onions, a 
little powdered turmeric, chillies, salt and besam or flour 
in a quantity such that when beaten the mass forms a 
very thick paste. Spread the mass on a flat dish making 
uniform thickness and cut it in squares. Fry the pieces 
in ghee. 

Brown some big pieces of potatoes and patois or 
cauliflowers with oil and add water with powdered cumin, 
pepper, coriander, turmeric and salt. Add the fried 
pieces on boiling. Season the curry when it is fully 
boiled with some ghee boiled with a few cassia leaves 
and red chillies. Add ghee and powdered garam-masalla 
before finish. Keep a little thick soup 

HILSA FISH with COCOA NUT, 

Smear some pieces of hilsa fi.sh with adequate quanti- 
ties of salt, mustard, turmeric, chillies, all powdered, and 
sufficient mustard oil. Stuff the stone of a half-ripe 
cocoa-nut breaking it in two and join the two parts water- 
tight with a little paste of flour. Boil it for an hour, 
Then open it, take the lump out and serve. 



7S INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

FISH CURRY with COCOA NUT. 

Make a paste of the kernel of a ripe cocoa-nut, add 
hot water and strain out the vegetable milk. Fry pieces of 
fish in oil. Then fry some pieces of onions, a few pieces 
of garlic and red chillies with ghee, and add the milk of 
cocoa-nut with fried pieces of fish and pasted almonds. 
Add vinegar, pasted ginger, pepper and salt. Take down 
when the soup is thick. 

Or, mix the pieces of fish with powdered turmeric, 
egg and bread crumbs, fry in ghee and boil with milk of 
cocoa-nut. Add salt, pasted ginger and pepper. Make 
the soup thick. 

SCORCHED FISH. 

Fishes with scales and particularly shol fishes are best 
suited for scorching. Remove the scales, wash and scorch 
them equally on both sides till they are soft. Remove 
the black crusts and the bones Mix them with chopped 
onions, green chillies, mustard oil and salt, and serve. 

BHARTA. 

Flake a fish of medium size, remove its intestines and 
wash. Wrap it up with a clean linen piece, coat with 
fine mud and burn on fire to a brown colour. Remove 
the earth and the linen piece carefully. Remove the 
bones, mix with ginger, cumin, pepper, chillies, cardamom, 
pasted or powdered, a little flour, salt and ginger-juice, 
and fry with ghee, 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 79 

PROLEHA. 

This preparation is rather costly and laborious, bwt is 
an excellent curry for a Bengali dish. 

Required :— One entire fish i or i-|- seers, ghee i 

powa, besam i powa, garam-masalla ^ tola, pepper i tola, 

coriander 2 tolas, curd |- powa, salt 2 tolas, a few cassia 
leaves. 

Method : — Flake the fish and remove the fins and 

intestines. Wrap with a linen piece and give a coating 

of clay all over its surface. Burn it with a sand-bath in 

a pan. Then remove the clay, etc., wash the fish, remove 

the bones, mix thoroughly with besam and powdered 

garam-masalla and form small cakes. Heat water in a 

pan covering its bottom with banana leaves, put the 

cakes carefully on them and boil till the cakes harden a 

little. Boil ghee with cassia leaves, cloves and panch- 

foron and brown the cakes in it. Add salt, water, curd, 

powdered coriander, pepper. Add almonds and a little 

flour when boiled. Take down after adding ghee and 

garam-masalla. 

SHRIMPS ROASTED, 

Scale a few big sized shrimps, and smear them with 
salt, mustard oil, powdered turmeric and chillies, Fix 
them to an iron stick, hold on fire and heat all the sides 
till deep brown. Drop oil from time to time on the fishes. 

Alternative method i — Scorch the shrimps on charcoal 

fire. Then scale them and wash. Smear them with 

minced green chillies, onions^ mustard ojl and salt, then 
serve. 



8o INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

HILSA FISH ROASTED with MEAT. 

Mix pasted ginger, chillies, turmeric, garam-masalla 
and salt with some minced meat and fry with oil. Pieces 
of boiled potatoes mixed with powdered pepper and salt 
may be used instead of meat. Never use onions with 
hilsa fish. 

Flake a big sized hilsa fish, preferably without roes, 
wash and remove the head, entrails and tail. Cut deep 
lengthwise on both sides of the fish. Smear it well 
with a paste of mustard oil, powdered turmeric, mustard, 
green chillies and salt. Stuff it full with the meat and 
stitch the opening. Wrap it up 8 or lo fold with green 
banana leaves and roast both sides alternately on glowing 
charcoal till the outermost leaves are burnt up. Then 
remove the leaves and the fish is ready to be served. 

FISH PATURI. 

Rub some thick pieces of a fish weighing i or 2 seers 
with powdered turmeric, mustard, salt, enough chillies 
and mustard oil. Arrange them in one layer on a piece 
of banana leaf smeared with mustard oil, cover with 
another and bind with a thread. Heat it in a frying 
pan on charcoal fire and turn it over when one side is 
cooked. Use plenty of oil. 

KABAB. 

Required :— Fish i seer, ghee ^ powa, curd ^ powa, 
ginger 2^ tolas, coriander 2^ tolas, a few chillies, cloves 
and cardamoms, 2 lemons, i or 2 handfuls of bes£^m, 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 8 1 

Method: — Prepare the middle portion of a big fish, 
make holes with a sharp point in it and cut in pieces. 
Rub them with besam and wash. Make a mixture of all 
the other ingredients after pasting or powdering them 
where necessary, and smear the pieces offish with it. 
Fix the pieces closely at the tip of a pointed iron stick, 
with thread if necessary. Roast them till golden-brown 
keeping about a foot above the flame. Rotate the stick 
slowly and drop the mixture oh them at intervals. Only 
big fishes and lobsters are suited for Kabab. ' 



GUTIKABAB. 

Boil some pieces of a big fish and remove the bones. 
Add curd, ginger, coriander, chillies, cloves, cardamoms, 
lemon juice, in proportions used in kabab, some besam of 
grams and a little water. Mix to a paste. Fry it in 
ghee till dry. Then grind it and make a muddy paste 
by adding curd, salt and powdered garam-masalla, Form 
balls of it, dip them into a cup containing beaten yolks 
of eggs, roll on bread crumbs or middlings and fry in 
ghee. Serve while hot. 

FISH with EGGS 

Mix salt I tola, a table-spoonful of oil, powdered 

mustard and pepper i tola each, a pinch of sugar, vinegar 

I chhatak with the yolks of a few boiled eggs and then 

mix it with ^ seer of boiled fish after removing the bones. 

6 



.82 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFEGTIONERY 

Form rectangular blocks of it ^ inch thick, dip them into 
beaten eggs and fry in ghee. 

FISH-CAKE. 

Boil pieces of fish and remove the bones. Add salt, 
powdered pepper, minced onions, boiled and pasted 
potatoes equal in quantity with the fish, and eggs. Mix 
them to a thick paste. Spread it on a plane with a 
uniform thickness of |- inch. Cut it in small squares and 
fry with ghee. 

FISH-BREAD. 

Remove the bones from boiled pieces of fish. 
Mince an equal quantity of boiled potatoes. Mix salt, 
pepper, cumin, ginger and garam-masalla, all powdered, 
with both of them separately. Knead the fish and make 
thin circular discs of it. Arrange the discs of fish and 
potatoes in alternate layers in a baking pan with some 
butter in it and bake on very mild heat with the lid on. 
Fried onions add zest to their taste. 

FISH-PURI. 

Boil I seer of the pieces of a big fish with salt and 
turmeric, and remove the bones. Add gihger, turmeric, 
cumin, pepper, coriander, garam-masalla, salt and a pinch 
of sugar, all powdered, beat thoroughly and brown a little 
with ghee. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 83 

Mix ^ powa of ghee with 2 seers of ilour, then add 
■water and knead it to a moderately soft lump. Form 
-small balls of it, flatten them a little and stuff with a 
little of the spiced fish. Press these stuffed balls into 
thick round discs and fry in plenty of ghee. Serve 
•while hot. 

KOPTA. 

Boil pieces of a big fish with pasted ginger, onions, 
•turmeric and salt. Take out the boiled pieces and remove 
the bones. Add raisins, pieces of almonds, powdered 
turmeric, chillies, ginger-juice, salt, minced onions and a 
little paste of moistened grams, and beat thoroughly. 
Heat it with a little ghee to evaporate some water so 
that small balls may be made of the paste. Dip the 
balls into eggs beaten with salt and powdered turmeric, 
iroll on bread crumbs and fry in plenty of ghee. 

KOPTA of CHITOL FISH. 

Flake and skin a big sized chitol fish. Cut in pieces 
and boil some of them with turmeric and salt. Drain 
off the water. Remove the bones and mix powdered 
turmeric, pepper, cumin, ginger-juice, salt and a little 
flour. Form balls and fry them till deep brown in ghee. 
It is a simple yet delicious preparation, 

KOPTA of SHRIMPS. 

Remove the scales, etc. from .1 powa of shrimps and 
;make a paste of them. Add i chhatak of powdered 



$4 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

biscuit, -^ tola of powdered pepper, a pinch of powdered! 
mace, -^ tola of salt, a little pasted green chillies and |^ 
chhatak of ghee. Mix thoroughly and prepare small 
balls of it. Dip them into eggs beaten with salt, roll oa 
powdered biscuit and fry in plenty of ghee. 

CUTLET of HILS A FISH. 

t Rub some big pieces of hilsa fish with pasted giiiger,. 
onions and salt. Keep them merged in a sufficient quan^- 
tity of curd for 3 or 4 hours. Then dip them into eggs 
beaten with salt, roll on bread crumbs and fry till brown 
in ghee. The numerous small bones will be found soft 
'andedible. Serve while hot. '1 

CUTLET of SHRIMPS. 

Remove the scales except those at the ends of the- 
tails, also remove the heads and the black threads at 
the backs of a few shrimps of medium size. Flatten 
them- with a hammer and, wash. Add ginger- juice, onion- 
juice, powdered turmeric and salt. Keep them covered 
for some time. Dip them holding the tail into eggs- 
beat^n with turmeric and salt, roll on bread crumbs and 
fry in plenty of ghee. Serve while hot. 

CUTLET of OTHER FISHES. 

'•''■■Mix a little ginger-juice, onion-juice and salt with a 
fe\i' pieces of fish of big-size. Boil in water and remove 



.INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTION&RY 85 

the bones keeping the pieces intact. Again add ginger- 
juice, onion- juice and salt, and leave them for some time. 
Then dip them into eggs beaten with salt and turmeric, 
roll on bread crumbs and fry in plenty of ghee. Serve 
with mustard while hot. 

DOLMA of PATOLS. 

Scale some lobsters, wash, rub with salt and powdered 
turmeric, and fry. Make a paste of them on a curry- 
stone. Mix ginger-paste and again fry with some 
browned pieces of onions. Then mix powdered garam- 
masalla, pepper and lemon-juice with them. Pieces of 
■other big fishes may be used, only the bones are to be 
removed. Minced meat may also be substituted but it 
must be boiled first. 

Remove the soft skin off some patois by rubbing with 
a knife, cut one of their ends, and remove the seeds with 
a pin. Stuff them with the pasted spiced fish or meat 
and close the ends with a little flour-paste or stitch them 
up. Dip them into eggs beaten with a little besam, rice- 
flour, cream of milk and salt, and fry to crispness in plenty 
■of ghee. 

Dolma of Karolas may be made in the same ivay, 
only their skins are to be completely removed and they 
•should be fried before stuffing. Boiled and fried entire 
pulses of grams and fried and powdered chillies, coriander 
and cumin are to be mixed with the powdered and fried 
■fishes along with the other spices. 



86 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

FISH with CREAM of MILK. 

Smear butter on both sides of a big piece of paper 
and wrap the middle portion of a big fish, after washing- 
it, with the paper and fix it with pins. Boil it for about 
an hour on mild heat in a covered pan with i or l-j- powa. 
of water mixed with -j- chhatak of butter. Take care 
that the paper does not get scorched. 

Drop a pinch of soda in a cup containing ^ powa or 
more of cream of milk and heat it on boiling water. 
Add to it a pinch of flour, salt, a little butter and pow- 
dered pepper. Then take off the paper and pour this 
cream of milk on the fish. Milk mixed with egg may be 
substituted for cream of milk. 

ENGLISH CURRY with CRABS. 

Shell a few crabs and keep their fleshes aside for a 
while after mixing with salt. Keep the brains in a pot 
and thoroughly clean the shells. Cut the fleshes in small 
pieces and fry them in butter with slices of onions, ginger- 
juice, lemon-juice, powdered pepper, salt and the brains. 
Add a little water and take down when boiled. Stuff 
the shells with this mass, bread crumbs and butter, and- 
apply heat under the shells for some time. 

CURRY with CRABS and PUMPKIN 

Shell a few crabs of big size, cut their fleshes in pieces 
and thrash their edible legs. Rub them with powdered 
turmeric and salt, and fry in oil. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 8'/ 

Peel and chop a very tender pumpkin into very fine ■ 
pieces. Fry them with the brains of the crabs in some 
oil. Add saltj and water will come out of the vegetable." 
When this water dries up add a little more water with 
powdered pepper, cumin, miustard and the fried crabs. 
Afier boiling for some time season the curry with some 
oil boiled with a few cassia leaves, red chillies and panch- 
foron. Take down when the curry is moderately thick. 
Fried shrimps may be used instead of crabs. 

ARUM STALKS with HILSA FISH. 

This item is very favourite to some and repulsive to , 
others. The portions of hilsa fish that are wasted, e. g. 
heads, tails, gills, entrails, are used in this curry. They 
are broken or cut piecemeal, thoroughly washed, and 
then fried after smearing with powdered turmeric 
and salt. 

Peel fresh and tender arum stalks, cut in pieces an 
inch longj boil and drain off the water. Boil ghee or oil 
with a few entire cumins. Then add salt, powdered 
cumin, pepper, coriander and chillies, and stir for 2 or 3 
minutes. Then add the boiled vegetable and stir for a 
few minutes more. Add water and on boiling add fish. 
Take down when no soup is left. Chichingas ( snake 
gourds ) are good substitutes for arum stalks. 

CHHANCHRA. 

It is a common and excellent item in the menu of a 
Eengali . dish. It is taken with rice. As in the above; 



88 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

curry the waste portions of big fishes are generally used 
in this curry. The better portions may aUo be used. 
They are fried in the same way. 

All kinds of saks and varieties of vegetables, &. g. 
potato, patol, brinjal, bean, radish, gourd, cauliflower, 
squash, jhinga, chichinga, bori, etc., ai'e used. Prepare 
I or 2 kinds of saks. Cut some other unpeeled vegetables 
ip pieces, wash and mix with powdered turmeric. After 
some time brown them in oil, add sak and fish, and stir. 
A little later add water, powdered mustard, chillies, 
coriander, pepper, cumin and saltr Take down when no 
soup is left. Ghee and powdered garam-masalla may be 
added if desired. 

SHRIMPS with GOURD LEAVES. 

Prepare some lobsters, cut in pieces and fry. Fishes 
are always to be smeared with powdered turmeric and 
salt before frying. Then brown some potatoes and onions 
peeled and cut in pieces. Add water, salt, powdered 
turmeric, cumin, pepper, chillies, coriander and some 
chopped and thoroughly washed tender gourd leaves. 
When fully boiled season the curry with ghee or oil 
boiled with a few cassia leaves and panch-foron. Garam- 
masalla may be added. Leave little soup. Saks and 
fishes in general are cooked in this way. 

CHACH-CHARI. 

Prepare fishes and fry them entire if small or cut in 
suitable pieces. Then brown some pieces of potatoes. 



INDIAN. COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 89 

patois, brinjals, tender legumes of barabati or cauliflowers 
or any combination of them with salt. Add fish, pow- 
dered turmeric, pepper, cumin, mustard and sliced green 
■chillies. Stir a little and add water. Last of all season 
the curry with oil with cassia leaves, chillies and minced 
•onions fried in it. Leave a little thick soup if desired. 



FISH JHAL. 

Slightly brown pieces of any kind offish and add 
water covering them, with powdered chillies, cumin, 
pepper, coriander and turmeric. Add a little more salt 
and fried pieces of onions if desired. The soup must be 
thick and scanty. Jhal of small fishes is also very taste- 
ful. They are to be kept entire but their entrails must 
be removed, otherwise the curry will taste bitter. 

FISH with FLATTENED RICE. 

Required. : — fish 3 powas, fiattened rice i powa, oil 
-^ powa, ghee ^ powa, curd |- powa, onions |- powa, ginger 
|- chhatak, salt 2 tolas, turmeric I tola, a few chillies. 

Method. ; — Rui fish is the best for this purpose. Wash 
thoroughly the pieces of fish and the flattened rice, mix 
powdered turmeric and salt with both, and fry the fish 
with oil and the flattened rice with half the ghee. 
Again boil the remaining ghee, add ginger, onions and 
chillies, all pasted, and stir till deep brown. Add curd and 
■stir a few minutes more. Pour in water and on boiling 



90 If^DIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

add the fish and the flattened rice. Dry up the soup. Add- 
a little powdered garam-masalla if desired. Try to keep 
the ingredients entire. 



SHOAL FISH with PUMPKIN. 

Throw away the heads of the shoal fishes as they are- 
not edible. Prepare the flesh portions and fry with oil. 

Peel a tender pumpkin and chop it in pieces Heat 
oil, fry cassia JeaveSj .chillies and a pinch of entire cumins- 
in it, add the chopped pumpkin and stir. A few minutes- 
later add salt, powdered chillies, coriander, cumin, pepper 
and water. On boiling add fish. Add a little ghee when 
the soup is scanty and take down after stirring . a 
litt e. 

RASA. 

Peel some potatoes and cut them in big pieces. Smear 
with turmeric and salt, and brown in oil. 

All kinds of fishes may be used. Prepare them and fry 
in sufficient oil. Add turmeric, coriander and a good- 
number of chillies, all pasted, and water. On boiling add 
salt and the potatoes. Fried bori may be added if desired. 
Take down when the soup is quite thick. The 
characteristic of this curry is its pungency. 



CLIMBING FISH with CABBAGE. 

Required. % — One medium sized cabbage or 2 to 2-j 
seers of chopped cabbage, potato ^ -''^sr, gi-een legumes of 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 9P 

peas I seer, climbing fish i seer, ghee ^ powa, oil ^ powa,. 
salt 4 tolas, ginger i chhatak, turmeric 2^ tolas, coriander 
|- tola, pepper i tola, cumin 3 tolas, garam-masalla i tola,, 
chillies and cassia leaves. 

Method. ; — Prepare the climbing fishes, keep entire 
and fry in oil. Take out the green peas from its legumes 
and fry them with pieces of potatoes and cassia leaves- 
in ghee or oil. Chop the tender white portion of the 
cabbage and fry it with ghee or oil till light brown. 
Then add the. potatoes, peas, fishes, all the spices pasted.- 
together and salt. Water will come out of the vegetables- 
when salt is added but a little more water may b&- 
necessary to boil them. Season the curry with ghee boiled- 
with a pinch of panch-foron, cassia leaves and chillies.. 
Add pasted garam-masalla before taking down. 

SHRIMPS with TURNIPS. 

Required : — Turnips ^ seer, potatoes i powa, smalF 
shrimps ^ seer, oil |- powa, ginger ^ chhatak, turmeric, 
cumin, pepper i tola each, salt |- tolas, panch-foron,. 
cassia leaves, chillies, ghee and garam-masalla. 

Method ; — Peel the turnips and potatoes, cut in small 
pieces and brown them. Prepare the shrimps and fry 
them. Add water and the spices pasted together to the- 
fried shrimps. On boiling add salt and the browned 
vegetables. When fully boiled season the curry with ghee 
boiled with panch-foron, cassia leaves and chillies. Add 
pasted garam-masalla and boil a few minutes more. Keep' 
a little very thick soiip. 



92 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

SHRIMPS with GREEN JACK-FRUIT. 

Required :— Pieces of jack-fruit i seer, potatoes 
I- seer, shrimps i seer, oil i powa, onions i chhatak, 
ginger and salt 2^ tolas each, coriander ^ tola, cumin 
2 tolas, pepper | tola, turmeric 1^ tola, ghee, garam- 
masalla, chillies and cassia leaves. 

Method : - Prepare a green and tender jack-fruit, * 
• cut in small pieces, boil in water mixed with a little 
pasted turmeric and drain off the water. Prepare the 
shrimps, cut in suitable pieces ( keep entire if small ) and 
fry. Paste together the onions, ginger, coriander, cumin, 
pepper, turmeric and a few chillies. 

Brown some pieces of potatoes and then add the 
boiled pieces of jack-fruit and stir for a few minutes. 
Add the pasted spices, stir again for a time and add a 
little water. On boiling add fish. Season the curry 
with ghee boiled with chillies and cassia leaves. Add 
ghee and pasted garam-masalla. Keep a little very 
thick soup. 

ENGLISH CURRY with ROHIT FISH. 

Required i — Fish ^ seer, 4 eggs, molten butter 
I chhatak, milk i powa, bread crumbs and fine flour 
^ chhatak each, powdered pepper and mace 2 tolas each, 
salt I tola. 

* For preparation of jack-fruit see page 48. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 93 

Method s— A piece, of any big fish will do. Cut it in 
small pieces and mix half the butter with them. Then 
mix eggs, bread crumbs, pepper and 'salt. Boil with so- 
much water that no water is left after half an hour. 

On another stove boil the milk with flour. Take 
down when the milk is somewhat thick. Add to it butter, 
mace and the boiled fishes, and stir to mix. 

SOUP with MAGURA or SINGI FISH. 

It is easily digested and hence a diet for patients. 
Prepare the fishes, cut in pieces and rub them against a- 
flat stone to remove the skins as much as possible. 

Boil water with a few cassia leaves, some entire garam- 
masalla and a little pasted turmeric. When the scent of 
the spices will come out add fish, salt and pieces of vege-. 
tables as potatoes, green banana, mun, fig, patol, brinjal. 
Add a little thin solution of flour after boiling for about 
20 minutes. Boil a little more and takedown. Remove 
the entire spices and serve. The soup must be very 
thin. 

The vegetables and fishes may be browned with ghee 
or oil before cooking, pasted , pepper, cumin, coriander, 
etc. may be used and the soup may be seasoned with 
ghee, chillies, etc., but by so doing the soup is not easily 
digested though it tastes better. 

Alternative Method : — This soup is not meant for 
healthy persons, it is special for patients. Boil the pieces 
of fish with a little pasted turmeric, a few pieces of 
onions, ginger and a cassia leaf. Add' salt and a little 



■94 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

thin solution of flour after boiling for 20 minutes. Then 
make a paste of the fishes in the soup, strain out the 
liquid soup and throw away the spices and fishes. Brown 
a few pieces of onions, a cassia leaf and some entire 
■garam-masalla in a very little ghee and pour in the 
50up. Take down before boiling. Remove the spices 
.and serve. 



FISH SOUP. 

Any kind of fish may be used. Prepare them and 
fry in oil. Brown all the vegetables, peeled and cut in 
■iDig pieces, except brinjals and add water with coriander, 
cumin, pepper, turmeric, chillies and onions, all pasted 
together. On boiling add salt, brinjals and fried fishes. 
Fried bori maj' be added now. When the vegetables 
are boiled season the soup with boiling oil with a few 
■cassia leaves, chillies and a pinch of panch-foron browned 
in it. Keep the soup thin. 

Soup with Milk of Cocoa-nut ; — Scrape out the kernel 
-of a ripe cocoa-nut, make a paste of it, add sufficient 
boiling water and churn. Strain out the milk and throw 
-away the refuse. 

Fry the pieces of fish in oil and add the vegetable 
milk, a little solution of flour and .cassia leaves. Add salt 
when the fishes are boiled. Season the soup with boiling 
•ghee with cardamom seeds,, minced ginger, chillies and 
<;loves fried in it. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 95 

TEL-JHOL ( Soup rich in oil ). 

Brown some big pieces of fish in oil. Again boil 
■sufficient oil in a new pot and add coriander, chillies, 
-turmeric, cumin, pepper and onions, all pasted together, 
and cassia leaves. Stir for about 5 minutes. Then add 
-a. quantity of water, fish and salt. Take down when 
.fishes are boiled and the soup is moderately thick. 

Second variety i — Brown some pieces of fish in oil 
and remove them from the pan. Again boil sufficient 
■oil, slightly brown pieces of vegetables in it and add 
coriander, turmeric and chillies, pasted together. Stir 
for about 5 minutes and add water. On boiling add salt 
-and fish. Season the soup with some boiling oil with 
•cloves and panch-foron fried in it. Boil a little more and 
iake down. Keep the soup thin. 

HILSA FISH UNFRIED with SOUP. 

Flake a fresh hilsa fish, remove the fins and wash clean 
^o that it does not require any more washing after being 
-cut in pieces. Smear the pieces with salt, pasted tur- 
meric and enough pasted mustard. Boil water with 
cassia leaves, green chillies cut in halves and pasted 
ginger, and add the fish mixed with spices. Take down 
after properly boiling. Keep thin soup. 

Alternative Method- S^Mal^e - a paste of turmeric, 
-green chillies and sufficient mustard. Boil oil and fry 
Ihe pasted spices in it for a couple of minutes and, add 



g6 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

water. On boiling add the pieces of fish and salt. Take-, 
down when properly boiled. 

A Second Variety % — Make a paste of turmeric,, 
chillies and enough mustard. Put it in a deep pot, add 
salt, vinegar' and sufficient mustard oil, and stir. Add a. 
little water if necessary. Add green chillies cut length- 
wise if desired. Arrange the pieces of fish in this soup,, 
cover the pot and heat without boiling on mild charcoal- 
fire for lo or 12 minutes. This soup is very palatable. 

MALAI CURRY. 

Required : — Fish i seer, i or 2 cocoa-nuts, cumin. 
I tola, pepper \ tola, coriander \ tola, turmeric 2 tolas,, 
ginger 2\ tolas, onions I chhatak, oil 1 powa, ghee i. 
chhatak, garam-masalla \ tola, flour \ chhatak, chillies 
and cassia leaves, salt i\ tola. 

Method % — Lobsters and big fishes are only used.. 
Prepare them and cut in big pieces. Lobsters are to be 
kept entire. Fry them in oil. Bring out the vegetable 
milk from the cocoa-nuts as done in Fish Soup. Make a, 
paste of all the spices. Make a paste of the garam.- 
masalla separately. 

Boil oil and fry cassia leaves and the pasted spices 
in it for about 5 minutes adding water little by little if 
necessary. Then add the vegetable milk. On boiling 
add salt, the fishes and a little thin solution of flour. 
When properly boiled season the curry with boiling ghee, 
with chillies and a few entire cumins fried in it. Add. 
garam-masalla and take down when the soup is fairly- 
thick. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY g'j 

FISH KULIA. 

Required % — Fishes weighing between 3 to 8 seers 
are the best for this purpose. Big pieces of such a fish 
I seer, potato ^ seer, onions ^ povva, oil 3 chhataks, ghee 
^ powa, curd | powa, salt 2 tolas, ginger |- chhatak, tur- 
meric 1 1- tola, cumin 2 tolas, pepper i tola, coriander 
^ tola, garam-masalla ^ tola, chillies, cassia leaves. 

Method : — Make a paste of all the spices including 
onions except half the turmeric and garam-masalla which 
are to be pasted separately. 

Smear the pasted turmeric and half the salt with the 
pieces of fish. Cut the potatoes in big pieces. Brown 
them separately in oil. 

Boil half the ghee, add the pasted spices and stir 
constantly. Add curd when the spices turn reddish 
brown and stir again adding water little by little when- 
ever necessary. This will take about 15 minutes. Then 
add the potatoes. Add sufficient water after stirring 
the potatoes for a couple of minutes, and when it boils 
add fish and .salt. Season the curry when it is boiled 
with ghee boiled with cassia leaves. Add garam-masalla 
before taking down. Keep a little fairly thick soup. If 
onions are not used make a paste of some boiled potatoes 
and add to make the soup thick. 

SOUR FISH. 

Required : — Fish i seer, oil ^ powa, salt i^ tola, ripe 
tamarind |- powa, turmeric i tola, mustard f tola, chillies, 
and sugar i chhatak. 



pS INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

Method ; — Make pastes of turmeric and mustard 
separately. Mix the tamarind as far as possible in about 
3 powas of water, strain out the acidulated water and 
throw away the refuse. 

Mix half the turmeric and half the salt with the 
fishes and fry them in oil. Boil a little more oil in 
another pan with the chillies broken in two and pour in 
the tamarind water. Add turmeric, mustard and salt. 
On boiling add fish. Add sugar, if you want to, a little 
before taking down. Keep soup as desired. 

FISH PRESERVED. 

Wash the pieces of fish, wipe them with a clean piece 
of linen, smear with powdered ( not pasted ) turmeric and 
salt, fry in molten butter and remove the bones as far as 
possible. Mix molten butter, salt, powdered garam- 
masalla and pepper to a paste and mix it with the pieces 
of fish. They can be preserved long, ready for eating, 
if kept air tight in a dry and cool cellar. 

SHRIMPS POWDERED. 

Wash some dried shrimps which have been flaked 
before drying. Fry them a little without any kind of fat. 
Powder them with saffron, pepper and salt. Strain through 
a sieve, bottle it and serve with bread and butter. 



MEATS AND FOWLS- 
MEAT CURRY. 

Required : — Meat i seer, onions, ghee and curd 
^ powa each, turmeric, pepper, cumin and garam-masalla 
^ tola each, ginger 2 tolas coriander 2 tolas ( if pepper 
and cumin are not added, otherwise i tola ), salt i^ tola, 
a few chillies and cassia leaves. 

Tender mutton is the best kind of meat, except those 
-of certain game birds. Goats not more than one year 
old give the best meat. The addition of a little milk- 
like gum of green papaw fruits, garlic-paste, sodium 
bicarbonate, vinegar, etc. accelerate the boiling of stiff 
:meat. Meat is boiled when the bones are easily separa- 
ted from it. Over-boiling of meat should always be 
avoided. Meat should be washed before cutting it to 
pieces. 

Method ; — Make a paste of chillies, ginger, turmeric, 
coriander and onions. Also mince some onions. Boil ghee, 
slightly brown the minced onions ( andpiepeg<,of ,9,lmonds, 
if desired ) in it and then add the pasted spices and ciird. 
Stir for about 5 minutes and add the pieces ofiineat. 
Brown the meat for about half an hour adding WAter Jitljle 



lOO INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

by little at intervals. A dd some water or milk and a fe-^ 
cassia leaves when the meat is properly browned. Add 
powdered garam-masalla at the end. Keep a little soup 
if milk is added, otherwise ordinarily no soup should be 
left in the curry. Use cumin and pepper if desired along^ 
with the other spices and do not use curd if milk is to be 
added. Milk of cocoa-nut. may be used- instead- of cow's 
milk, but in this case lemon-juice is to be added at the 
end. 

MEAT KULIA. 

Required % — Meat i seer, potato |- seer^ ghee ^ powa, 
oil I chhatak, curd i powa, salt 2^ tolas, turmeric i tola,, 
ginger 2^ tolas, cumin . i tola, pepper i tola, coriander 
I tola, onions |- powa, a few pieces of garlic, chillies, cassia 
leaves, garam-masalla i tola, a pinch of sugar. 

Method % — Make a paste of all the spices including 
onions and garlics. Garam-masalla is to be kept entire 
or pasted separately. Mix thoroughly some oil, a little 
salt and a part of the pasted spices with the meat cut in 
big pieces, and keep aside. Peel the potatoes, cut in big- 
pieces and brown them with oil. Boil ghee, fry cassia 
leaves and a few cloves in it and add the rest of the 
pasted spices with curd. Stir for a few minutes and add 
the meat. Stir thoroughly and cover up the pot. Add 
hot water when the « ater coming out of the meat dries 
up. On boiling add potatoes and salt. Add sugar,, 
garam-masalla, and ghee before taking down. Keep a 
little thick soup. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY lOI 

MEAT HALUA. 

Fry some khovva kheer in ghee and powder them. 
Make a paste of onions, ginger, coriander, turmeric and 
garam-masalla. Mix this paste and salt with minced 
meat. Heat some ghee and slightly brown some raisins 
and pieces of almonds. Then add to them minced meat 
and fry till dry. Besam of grams about ^ of the meat in 
quantity is to be added 2 or 3 minutes before the dryness 
is reached. Add water and boil for about 15 minutes 
at the end of which add the fried and powdered khowa 
kheer, the white of eggs and sugar to taste. Boil a few 
minutes more and take down before too dry. This is 
meat halua. 

With Cocoa-nut : — When the meat is fried to dryness 
with the besam of grams, add the khowa kheer, sugar, 
the white cf eggs and a little water if necessary to make 
a muddy paste of theni. Stuff this paste into the stone 
of a half ripe cocoa-nut broken in two with the kernel 
inside. Join the two parts with a little paste of flour 
and boil in water for about an hour. Then bring out the 
lump, cut in pieces and serve with boiled potatoes, 
mustard and chopped onions. 

MEAT D HONK A. 

Prepare meat halua as before, press it flat on a plat?, 
cut in pieces, dip into beaten egg and fry in ghee. 

Brown some big pieces of potatoes and add to them 
■onions, ginger, cumin, pepper, turmeric and chillies. 



I02 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

all pasted together. Stir for a few minutes and addl 
curd or a little asafetida solution. A few minutes later 
.add sufficient water and on boiling add salt and the fried- 
meat. Finish with garam-masalla. Keep a little very 
thick soup. 

MEAT BHARTA, 

Heat enough ghee, fry cassia leaves, cloves and 
chopped ginger in it and add pieces of meat without 
bones. Stir till the meat turns reddish brown. Then 
add salt, pasted coriander, and sufficient water. On 
softening add pasted poppy seeds, almonds, fried and 
powdered khowa kheer, curd and sugar. Boil till the 
soup is very thick. Finish by adding boiling ghee and 
powdered garam-masalla. 

MEAT KORMA. 

Required : — Meat i seer, onions i|- powa, curd |^ 
powa, ghee |- powa, ginger i chhatak, salt i|- tolas, poppy 
seeds i tola and chillies. 

Method t — Make a paste of ginger, poppy seeds, 
chillies and half of the onions. Mix this paste and the 
curd with big pieces of meat. Chop the other onions. 

Heat ghee, slightly brown the chopped onions in it 
and add the meat. When the water coming out of the 
meat completely dries up, add a little more water and 
boil under cover on very mild heat. Take down whea 
this water dries up. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I03 

MEAT DOPENAJI. 

Powder cumin, pepper, coriander and chillies all 
together. Also make a paste of turmeric, onions, ginger 
and chillies. Cut S'^me other onions in slices. 

Heat enough ghee, slightly brown the slices of onions 
in it and then add the pasted spices. Add meat and salt 
when the spices are fried. Fry the meat to a reddish 
brown colour for about half an hour adding water little 
by little. Then add curd and powdered spices. Add 
water after stirring for a few minutes. Add a little 
lemon-juice and pasted garam-masalla in the end. Take 
down when the soup is very thick. 

With almonds, etc. : — Make a paste of the almonds, 
etc., mix it with some milk and condense it if necessary. 

Add this milk along with curd and powdered spices. 

MUTTON ELAJADIMIAR. 

Required : — Mutton i seer, onions |- powa, i carrot, 
I turnip, cumin 2 tolas, pepper i tola, garam-masalla 
I tola, butter 3 chhataks, salt i^ tola, a little flour. 

Method : — Mince the meat and fry it with butter 
till brown. Then add water and boil under cover for an 
hour. Add all the spices pasted together, salt and flour 
mixed with a Uttle water when the meat is boiled. 

Meanwhile cut the carrot, turnip and onions in small 
cubes and boil in water. Heat the rest of the butter in 
another pan and brown the boiled vegetables in it. Then 



I04 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

add the boiled meat with soup in it. Boil a few minutes 
more Take down with soup as required. 

MUTTON NECK. 

Required :— Mutton i seer, curd ^ powa, butter |- 
powa^ bread crumbs |- powa, 5 eggs, garam-masalla i tola, 
cumin 2 tolas, pepper i tola, salt i| tola. 

Method : — Make pastes of cumin, pepper and garam- 
masalla separately. Cut the meat in small pieces and 
mix with curd and parts of pepper, cumin and salt. 
Boil sufficient water and boil the meat in it under cover. 
Add the liquid contents of the eggs, bread crumbs, salt 
and all the pasted spices when the meat is boiled and 
stir thoroughly. Add hot butter and take down after 
boiling a little more. Keep a little soup. 

LIVERS ( Mete ). 

Livers are always to be washed and boiled before 
cooking. Cut the boiled livers in small cubes. Fry 
them with minced onions in sufficient butter and add 
water, salt, powdered cumin and pepper. Add a little 
flour solution to make the soup thick if it is too thin. Add 
a little lemon-juice and pasted garam-masalla in the end 
and take down. Serve with bread. 

Alternative Method ; — Cut potatoes, onions and the 
boiled livers in slices. Brown the potatoes in ghee. Again 
■heat ghee and fry the onions with powdered (not pasted) 
pepper, salt, pieces of ginger and green chillies. After a 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 05 

lime add the livers and fry for about 10 minutes. Then 
add a little water and when it boils add the browned pota- 
toes and salt. Take down when this water dries up. A 
little more powdered pepper may be added now. 

Dopenaji of Livers s — It is to be prepared in the same 
■way as Meat Dopenaji. Only the pieces of livers are 

■to be fried for 10 minutes only and practically no soup 

■should be left. 

FOWL DOPENAJI. 

Required % — Fowl |. seer, ghee ^ powa^ onions i 
powa^ a few pieces of garlic, salt i tola, cassia leaves, 
turmeric and garam-masalla -j- tola each, pepper, cumin 

.and coriander \ tola each. 

Method :— -Cut the fowl in big pieces and mix with 

•salt. Make a paste of all the spices together and mix 
with ■!■ seer of water. Cut the onions in slices, fry half of 
them with a little salt and keep aside. Boil ghee and 
fry a few cloves, cassia leaves and garlic in it, add the 
other half of onions and brown them slightly. Then add 
the fowl and stir constantly for about 20 minutes adding 
the spiced water little by little if necessary. Then add 
the whole of the spiced water and cover the pan. Take 

•down when no soup is left. Place the fried onions on the 

fowl. 

FOWL JUICE. 

Kill any fowl, domestic or wild, prepare it and cut in 
.big pieces. Chickens are the best for this purpose. Cut 



Io6 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

a chicken in 4 or 5 pieces. Boil the pieces in about i-^ 
seer of water with salt^ a few pieces of onions, a little- 
powdered turmeric and pepper under cover. If the juice 
is to be made thick add a little powdered arrowroot. Take 
down when the soup is only i|- powa, and strain it out. 
Fry a few cassia leaves, cloves and aniseeds in a little 
ghee, and add the soup. Take down when it boils. 
Strain the soup out through a clean piece of linen. This- 
soup is given to patients on medical advice. The fowl 
may be utilised in preparing chops and cutlets. 

PURL 

Mix ghee with flour at the rate of one chhatak to one 
seer, add water and knead. Mix a little ghee with some- 
besam of grams and fry. Mix together this fried besam, 
ginger-juice, powders of pepper, cumin, garam-masalla, salt 
and minced meat and fry with ghee. Form medium balls 
of the kneaded flour, flatten, stuff with a little meat and 
make balls again. Press these balls into flat and round discs 
of moderate thickness and roast them with a little ghee or 
heat them 2 or 3 at a time in a pan, roast on fire without 
ghee, and then smear with ghee to make soft. They are 
called luchis if the discs are made small and thin and are 
fried in plenty of ghee. 

KACHURI. 

Mix salt, a pinch of sodium bicarbonate, powders of 
fried pepper, cumin, garam-masalla and coriander with- 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY ioy 

minced meat and fry with ghee, adding a little water if 
necessary to boil the meat. 

Knead some flour into a dough, make small balls, of it,, 
flatten, stuff with a little meat and make balls again. 
Press them into small, round, flat discs of moderate thick- 
ness and fry in plenty of ghee. Boiled and pasted green, 
peas and cauliflowers may be mixed with the meat. 

MEAT BREAD. 

Prepare a rabbit or hare, cut in big pieces and keep- 
them immersed in saline water for half an hour. Then 
boil the pieces of salted meat in fresh water. Tak& 
out the boiled pieces and remove the bones. Mix them 
with 2 or 3 eggs, sugar, powdered pepper, ginger-juice, a 
few drops of lemon-juice, a small quantity of flour, salt 
and a little water in which meat had been boiled, if nece- 
ssary. Form rectangular cakes of moderate thickness, 
cover with white paper and fry with butter on mild heat 
for about half an hour. 

MEAT GALANTINE 

Mix thoroughly f seer of small pieces of meat without 
bones, ^ powa of bread-crumbs and pepper, salt, chopped 
onions and beaten eggs as required to make a stiff paste. 
Smear a pudding-bag or a thick piece of cloth with butter 
and flour respectively. Tie the mass in it and boil for 
2 hours. Then keep the mass pressed between two larg& 



lo8 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

plates till cold. Remove the cloth when set firmly, cut in 
suitable pieces, decorate with pieces of parsley or pista- 
chios, and serve. 

KABAB. 

Mix salt, pastes of ginger, onions, garlic and chillies 
"with minced mutton and keep aside for some time. Then 
mix it thoroughly with a little ghee and besam of grams 
to a stiff mass. Form balls of it, attach them at the end 
■of a pointed iron stick and roast on charcoal flame till 
brown dropping ghee on them at intervals. 

MEAT KABAB with CONDENSED MILK. 

Mix together to a stiff paste |- seer of minced meat, 
-J- powa of slightly fried khowa kheer ( dry condensed 
milk ), -J- powa of besam of grams or powdered rice, 
I chhatak of ghee, powders of pepper, cumin and garam- 
masalla i tola each, salt ^ tola, sugar, ginger-juice, fried 
and powdered almonds and raisins as desired, and water. 
Beaten eggs may be added if desired. Make balls of it 
and roast on slow heat on an ii-on fork adding ghee at 
intervals. It is a rich and delicious preparation. 

FOWL KABAB. 

Prepare a fowl and thrust the neck, legs, etc. into the 
body to make it a single lump of flesh. Make a paste of 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY IO9. 

onions, ginger, chillies, coriander, cumin and garam- 
masalla, and mix with it curd, ghee and salt. Smear the 
lump with the pasted spices and keep aside for half an 
hour. Then stuff its bowels with these spices or with 
minced meat fried with salt, powdered pepper, pieces of 
almonds, boiled potatoes and the white of boiled eggs. 
Pass a thin iron rod through the lump lengthwise and 
roast all the sides on charcoal fire dropping ghee at inter- 
vals till deep brown. All domestic fowls and game-birds- 
can be prepared thus. 

MEAT DRY. 

Boil pieces of meat without bones in water. Add this- 
juice to besam, powdered or pasted poppy-seeds, almonds, 
chillies, garam-masalla, coriander, ginger, turmeric, salt 
and the white of eggs, and beat thoroughly to a thick 
paste. Dip the boiled pieces of meat into this paste and- 
fry in enough boiling ghee. 



MEAT TOAST. 

Smear a lump of tender meat with pasted onions,, 
ginger, chillies, garam-masalla and cumin. Thrust the 
sharp end of an iron rod into the meat and roast on 
charcoal fire turning round and round till deep brown 
dropping a mixture of curd and ghee at intervals. Cut 
it, when prepared, into pieces and serve with chopped, 
onions, powdered pepper and salt. 



1 10 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

FOWL ROAST. 

Prepare a fowl, domestic or wild, and thrust the neck, 
legs, etc. into the body. Smear it with curd, salt and a 
paste of onions, ginger, chillies, coriander, cumin and 
garam-masalla. Its bowels may be stuffed, if desired^ 
with these spices or with minced meat fried with salt, 
powdered pepper, pieces of almonds, boiled potatoes and 
the white of boiled eggs. Boil some ghee, fry a few pieces 
of onions and cassia leaves in it and then the fowl till 
deep brown. Then add a little hot water and cover up. 
Take down when the meat is soft and the soup is very 
ithick. 

FRY of MEAT. 

Mix curd, salt, pastes of turmeric, cumin, chillies, 
onions, ginger and garam-masalla with minced meat. 
Boil some ghee, fry a few pieces of garlic and cassia 
leaves in it and then the meat till the water coming out 
of it completely dries up. A little water may be added 
once or twice, if necessary, to boil the meat to softness. 

MEAT CHAP ATI. 

Make a paste of turmeric, pepper, cumin, ginger, 
onions and garam-masalla, and mix it with curd and salt. 
Smear slices of meat 3 inches by 2 inches by ^ inch with 
this mixture. Place them in a layer on hot ghee in a pan 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 1 1 

-and heat slowly placing some weights on them so that 
they may not shrink. Sprinkle water at intervals to make 
■them soft. 

MEAT CHHENCHKI. 

It is a very tasteful preparation. Mix salt and a paste 
•of turmeric, onions and •< garlics with small cubes of meat 
-and fry them with ghee. 15 or 20 minutes later add 
-ginger-juice, powdered pepper and garam-masalla, and 
more ghee if necessary. Sprinkle water at intervals to 
make them soft. Take down when deep brown. 

MUTTON BREAST. 

1 ie up some big pieces of meat from the breast in a 
piece of cloth and boil. Mix the boiled pieces with bread 
■crumbs, salt, powdered pepper, cumin and garam-masalla, 
and fry them with butter. Stir constantly till brown. 
.Serve with mustard. 



GHUGNI of MEAT. 

It is prepared in the same way as with eggs. Mix 
;garam-masalla, pepper, cumin and onions, pasted together, 
with small cubes of meat and fry to crispness with ghee or 
■oil. Add art equal quantity of small pieces of potatoes 
fried with cassia leaves and very small pieces of ginger. 
Soil with a little water, add salt and take down when 



I I 2 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

no soup is left. Barabatees and peas, moistened, boiled: 
to softness and fried, may be added in place of or along, 
with fried potatoes. 

KOPTA. 

Boil some minced meat with a little water, add in 
adequate quantities of ginger-juice^ onion-juice, salt, curd^ 
powders of chillies, cumin, coriander, garam-masalla,. 
fried almonds and raisins, pasted garlics, eggs and besam; 
of grams about ^ of the weight of raw meat, and beat- 
thoroughly to a stiff paste. Form balls of it, dip into- 
beaten eggs, roll on bread crumbs and fry in plenty of 
ghee till brown. 

Or, mix ground almonds, raisins, garam-masalla, a 
pinch of sugar and salt with boiled minced meat. Add a 
little fried and powdered khowa kheer or besam, if nece- 
ssary, to make a stiff paste. Make thin oblong forms of 
it, dip into beaten yolks of eggs, roll on bread crumbs and 
fry in plenty of ghee till brown. 

FRY of MUTTON FAT, HEART, etc. 

Cleanse some fat, mix it thoroughly with powdered or 
pasted turmeric, ginger, onions, chillies and salt, form 
balls, dip into a moderately thick solution of besam, and 
fry in plenty of oil or ghee. 

Boil small pieces of livers and hearts i.i' r. Mix 

onions, turmeric, chillies, ginger, ground to a paste, and 
salt with the boiled pieces, and fry with oil or ghee. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY II3 

MEAT CUTLET. 

Keep 3 or 4 slices of loaf immersed in water for i or 
2 minutes. Squeeze the water out and make a paste of 
these with eggs, powdered pepper.^alt, pasted onions and 
green chillies. 

Cut I seer of meat into 10 or 12 slices. Thrash both 
sides of all the slices with a stone and keep them mixed 
up with the pasted spices for about an hour. Then roll 
them on powdered biscuits and fry in plenty of ghee. 
Serve with mustard, slices of boiled potatoes and 
onions. 

FOWL CUTLET. 

Prepare the fowl and cut it in 5 or 6 slices. Remove 
the bones as far as possible and thrash both sides of the 
slices with a stone. Mix them w.ith salt, powdered 
pepper, pasted onions and the yolks of eggs, roll on pow- 
dered biscuits and fry in plenty of ghee. Cutlets of all 
domestic fowls and game birds are prepared in this 
fashion. 

GERMAN CUTLET. 

Take slices of tender meat without bones weighing 
about 3 chhataks each and thrash them with a stone 
taking care that each piece remains entire. Keep them 
mixed up for about an hour with a mixture of curd, salt, 
eggs, pastes of onions, ginger and garlic. Fry both sides 



I I 4 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

of them with ghee on slow heat keeping stretched with 
something heavy placed on them. Serve with mustard, 
slices of onions, boiled potatoes and cucumber. 

FRENCH CUTLET. 

Make a paste of some big boiled and peeled potatoes 
and mix thoroughly with powdered pepper, the white of 
eggs and salt. 

Mix eggs, ginger-juice, onion-juice, powdered turme- 
ric, chillies, pieces of almonds and raisins with minced 
meat, and keep aside for an hour. Fried and powdered 
khowa kheer, curd, sugar, lemon-juice, powders of garam- 
msisalla and cumin may be added if desired. Then fry 
the spiced meat with ghee, form flat oval cakes of it, 
dip into beaten eggs and fry in plenty of ghee. ( These 
chops may be eaten thus fried ). Then give a thick 
coating of the pasted potatoes over these chops, dip again 
into beaten eggs, roll on bread crumbs and fry in plenty 
ofghee. 

ITALIAN COOKING of MUTTON. 

Meat containing enough fat should be used. Mix 
curd, salt, ghee, pastes of ginger, onions, garlics, chillies, 
coriander and garam-masalla with pieces of meat, prefe- 
rably from the thighs, weighing about i powa each, and 
keep covered for 2 or 3 hours. Then boil enough ghee 
and fry some entire cumins, garam-masalla, broken 
chillies, cassia leaves and sufficient pieces of onions in 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERy II5 

it. Then add the meat to these and fry for some time. 
Add hot water so that the meat is just boiled while no 
soup is left. Add a little ghee before taking down. 
Serve with fried pieces of almonds and onions. 

MEAT CHOP. 

Make a paste of some boiled and peeled potatoes and 
mix thoroughly with salt, powdered pepper and the white 
of eggs. 

Mix ginger-juice, salt, minced onions, powdered 
■chillies, eggs or a little pasted grams with minced meat. 
Ground almonds and raisins, or fried and powdered khowa 
kheer, or both equal in quantity with the minced meat 
may be added instead of pasted grams. Fry the spiced 
meat with ghee adding a little water to make soft. 

Take a handful of the paste of potatoes, make a flat 
disc of it with the hands, put some meat at the centre, 
dose the disc over the meat and give the shape of an 
almond. Make as many cakes as possible. Dip them 
into beaten eggs, roll on bread crumbs or powdered bis- 
cuits and fry in plenty of ghee till deep brown. 

COORKITS. 

Fry minced onions and cassia leaves with enough 
ghee. Then fry ^ seer of minced meat with these for 
about 10 minutes and add ^ seer of water. When the 
water dries up add ^ powa of loaf pasted with |- povva of 
milk, 3 or 4 eggs, salt, powders of pepper and garam^r 



Il6 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

masalla. Stir thoroughly and take down when the mass- 
is a stiff paste. Make about 25 coorkits of round and 
long shape, dip into beaten eggs and fry in plenty 
of ghee. 

Shrimps and other fishes may be used as a substitute 
for meat in which case the bones, should be removed after 
frying them. 

MEAT CHOP with VEGETABLES. 

Boil pieces of green jack-fruit or cauliflowers or an)r 
other vegetable equal in quantity with the minced meat, 
and make a paste of it 

Mix pastes of ginger, onions, pepper, chillies, garam- 
masalla, almonds, raisins and salt with the minced meat 
and fry with ghee. Add a little water to boil the meat. 
When the water dries up, add the pasted vegetable and 
eggs. Stir thoroughly. Take down when the mass is a 
stiff paste. Form oval shaped cakes of it, dip into beaten 
eggs, roll on powdered biscuits and fry in plenty of 
ghee. 

AMRITTI with MEAT. 

Make pastes of ^ powa of almonds and ^ seer of 
tender minced meat after boiling it. Mix these wilh 
1 powa of fried and powdered khowa kheer, i seer of 
besam of grams, ginger-juice -g- chhatak, a little powderedi 
cardamom seeds, salt, a pinch of saffron and about 3- 
-powas of wafer. Beat thoroughly. Put this semi-liquid 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY II 7 

mass in a pot or linen-bag with a small hole at the bottom 
shutting it with a thumb. Bring it above a pan of boiling 
■ghee and let the liquid fall in a stream in the pan in 
round spirals making any design. Fry both sides by 
turning them. Then drop them in a syrup of sugar. 
Serve after about an hour when they are saturated with 
the syrup. 

SOUR MEAT. 

Keep I chhatak of ripe tamarind without seeds 
immersed in i powa of water for about 15 minutes, then 
■ squeeze them in the water and throw away the refuse. 

Mix salt, powdered turmeric, ginger-juice, onion-juice, 
a little powdered pepper and mustard oil with -^ seer of 
-small pieces of meat. Fry broken chillies and cassia 
leaves in enough ghee and then the meat in it for about 
1 5 minutes. Add about ^ seer of water and when this 
"water nearly dries up add the tamarind solution. Browned 
pieces of vegetables maybe added now if desired. Add 
sugar as desired about 5 minutes before taking down. 
Keep thick .soup. 



PASTRIES AND SWEETS 
PAROTA 

Mix thoroughly i chhatak of ghee and a little salt 
with I seer of fine flour. Add about ^ seer of water and 
knead to a stiff dough. Rub and beat it continually with 
the hands for at least half an hour till it is softened to 
some extent. Make i6 balls of the mass, press each ball 
with a little ghee to a round fiat disc on a polished flat 
piece of marble and a handy roller of wood. Smear the 
upper surface with ghee and fold it, again smear with 
ghee and fold. Press it again with the roller to a trian- 
gular form of uniform moderate thickness and fry both 
sides on mild heat with ghee added little by little 
till it is crisp and properly browned. Serve while hot. 

DHAKAI PAROTA. 

Prepare the mass as before and make only 4 balls of 
it. Press each ball to a round disc and fold it twice, 
smearing ghee at each fold. Repeat the process 10 or 12 
times till the disc is very soft. Then fry both sides one 
after the other with enough ghee on very mild heat till 
it is crisp and brown. Serve while hot. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I I9 

KACHURL 

Keep some pulses of grams moist under water for two 
hours. Fry them with ghee and grind to a paste. Mix 
entire aniseeds, black cumin and salt with it. Fish, meat, 
green peas, almonds, fried with spices may also be 
mixed with it. 

Mix a pinch of soda, one of salt, and ghee with flour 
and then knead it to a dough with water. Make small 
balls of it, press each ball with the fingers, stuff with a 
little of the above preparation and make balls again. 
Press these stuffed balls into flat discs of moderate thick- 
ness and fry in plenty of boiling ghee. 

KACHURI with ASAFOETIDA (Hing). 

Keep some husked pulses of kalai under water for two 
hours and grind them to a paste. Mix thoroughly with a 
little asafoetida melted with water, entire aniseeds, black 
cumin and salt. Fry this mass with ghee for 1 5 to 20 
minutes. 

Prepare kachuri as before stuffed with this new pre- 
paration. 

NiMKI. 

Mix thoroughly f powa of ghee, a little salt, a half- 
pinch of soda, and a few entire black cumins with |- seer 
of fine flour, and knead into a stiff dough with water. 
Make small balls of it and roll them into very thin discs. 



I20 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

Fold the discs twice and fry in plenty of ghee till brown. 
Or^ make big balls^ roll into big d 
pieces of parallelogram shape and fry. 



Or^ make big balls^ roll into big discs, cut them into 



PATNAINIMKI 

Make a stiff dough of fine flour ^ seer, middlings 
|- powa, besam |- powa, a little salt, some entire black 
cumins and sesames with water. Cut it in rectangular 
pieces half inch thick and fry in plenty of ghee. 



SINGARA. 

Break some boiled and peeled potatoes and mix with 
salt, a few entire black cumins, powders of ch'llies, garam- 
masalla and aniseed. 

Mix I chhatak ghee and a little salt with half seer 
of fine flour and prepare a stiff dough with water. Make 
very small balls of it so that when rolled make discs of 
diameter 3 to 4 inches. Form hollow cones of these, stuff 
each with a little spiced potato and close up. Fry in 
plenty of ghee. Small pieces of meat fried with spices may 
be substituted for potatoes. 

LUCHI. 

Mix I chhatak of ghee and a pinch of salt with I seer 
of flour, and knead into a dough with about ^ seer of 
water. Make small balls of it, roll into thin round discs 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I 2 1 

and fry in plenty of ghee till they expand. Fry also the 
other sides. It takes about half a minute to fry a luchi. 
They are not at all browned. 



RADHABALLAVI LUCHI. 

Fry some moistened pulses of kalai with powders of 
;aniseed, ciimin^ turmeric and salt with ghee or oil. Then 
make a stiff paste of them. 

Prepare flour dough as in the preparation of Luchi, 
make big balls of it^ flatten them a little, put some spiced 
pulse in each and close up again in the form of a ball. 
Roll them into big dies of moderate thickness and fry in 
plenty of ghee. 



LUCHI with SWEET GOURD. 

Cut a ripe sweet gourd in two, remove the seeds, etc., 
-and close it again as before binding with a thread. Give 
-a very thick coating of mud all round it and burn well 
on charcoal or wood fire so that the interior portion is 
made a pulp. Break the fruit when cold, take out the 
pulp, add salt and prepare a stiff dough with it and flour 
without adding water. Now proceed as usual with the 
making of Luchi. Luchi with the pulp of ripe "tal" fruit 
is prepared in the same way. This pulp is to be boiled a 
little before use. For preparation of the pulp see 
Tal-kheer. 



122 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

LUCHI with KHOWA KHEER. 

Make a stiff paste with almonds and pistachios of 
khowa kheer without adding water. One or two drops 
of essence of rose may be added. Make very small balls 
of it and roll them into thin discs. 

Prepare a bit bigger discs of flour as in the preparation^ 
of luchi. Place a disc of kheer between two of flour and 
close the ends of the flour discs. Fry as luchi in plenty oF 
ghee. 

Similarly hard chhana from which whey has been 
removed may be pasted with almonds and pistachios and 
used as a substitute for kheer in which case it is called 
Luchi with chhana. 

BANANA CAKES 

Required. = — Flour i|- powa, bananas i powa, milk 
I powa, sugar ^ powa, cardamom seeds and a little ghee; 
or oil. 

Mix thoroughly flour or powdered rice, ripe bananas, 
milk, sugar and a pinch of powdered cardamom seeds to- 
a thick paste. Heat a little ghee or oil in a round 
bottomed pan, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls o( the paste and 
cover the pan up completely. Remove the cakes when 
they are solid and boiled after about i or i|- minutes. 
Continue in this way. 

MOOG SAMLI or MOOG PITHA. 

Make a preparation of scraped cocoa-nut kernel and- 
sugar as in Chandrapuli ( .see later ). 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 121 

Keep some pulses of moog under water for 2 hours- 
Then fry them with ghee and make a stiff paste of them 
without water. Make medium balls of it^ press a little- 
flat, stuff each with a little of the above preparation and- 
make balls again. Fry them in plenty of ghee. 

PULI PITHA of SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil sorrie sweet potatoes^ peel and make a paste of 
them. Mix with salt and some powdered rice so that the 
paste is stiff enough to make balls of it. Press the balls 
flat. Stuff with a preparation of cocoa-nut and sugar as in 
Chandrapuli or with khowa kheer and sugar boiled in 
equal quantities with a little water till the paste is sticky 
and stiff. Give them a flat elongated shape when closing 
up. Fry 4 to 6 at a time with a little ghee or oil till deep 
brown. 

VARIETIES of PULI CAKES 

These cakes are prepared with powdered rice or flour,^ 
but those made of powdered rice are much softer. Make 
a stiff dough of powdered rice with boiling water. ( Try 
to add the necessary amount of water at a time ). Make- 
medium balls, stuff them as in the above recipe with kheer 
or the preparation of cocoa-nut and give them the shape 
of an almond. Now, if these cakes are fried as before, 
they are called Fried Puli. If they are fried and immersed 
in a syrup of sugar till they are saturated, they are called 
Rasa Puli. If they are placed on a thin linen cloth 



124 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERy 

Stretched over the boihng water in a deep pan with the 
Jid on and are. thus boiled by steam only, they are called 
Vapa ( steamed ) Puli. If they are boiled in boiling 
water till they all float, they are called Siddha ( boiled ) 
Puli. If they are made small in size and are boiled in 
milk with sugar, they are called Sweet Puli. 



PULI CAKES of MOOG. 

Keep some husked pulses of moog under water for 
two hours. Then fry them, if you like, with a little ghee 
for a few minutes. Make a paste of them. Add salt and a 
httle flour, if necessary, to make the paste stiff. Prepare 
Puli cakes as before stuffing them with kheer or the 
preparation of cocoa-nut and fry till reddish brown with 



ghee. 



SARU-CHAKLI. 

Keep some husked pulses of kalai under water for 2 
hours and make a paste of them. Add powdered rice 
ua to half the quantity of pulses. Scraped and pasted 
Icernel of cocoa-nut may be added if desired up to half the 
quantity of pulses. Add salt and make a thick solution 
water. Pleat a frying pan, smear with a little ghee 
and pour in two table-spoonfuls of the paste at a time. 
Spread it in a thin circle with a small thin rectangular 
olate of iron. Bake the other side when it is hard 
enough to be turned. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 25 

PATI-SAPTA. 

Make a paste of khowa kheer, the kernel of a half 
ripe cocoa-nutj almonds,, aijd, pistachios in any quantity 
and mix with the necessary amount of sugar. Fry it with. 
a little ghee on mild heat. . Add 2 or 3 drops of essence 
of rose when sticky and take down. 

Make a thick solution of flour or a paste of moistened- 
pulses of kalai^ sugar and rOilk. Heat a frying pan, smear 
with a little ghee and add two table-spoonfuls of the flour 
solution. Tilt the pan spreading it in a thin circle. 
When sufficiently baked put a little of the preparation of 
kheer shaped like a cig^r a^^one - end and roll the disc 
around it. Fry a little with ghee and take down. Conti- 
nue in this way. 

TAL-BARA. 

Tal fruits may taste bitter . though rarely. Mix the 
pulp of a ripe sweet tal fruit with salt and powdered rice 
or fine flour so that the mass becomes a thick paste. 
Chopped almonds and drops of essence of rose may be 
added now. Heat a round bottomed pan with a little 
ghee or oil, add a.table-spodnful of the p^ste and bake till 
it', is solid. Bake the other side also. 

Another Variety : — Mix sugar and powdered rice 
with the pulp of a ripe tal fruit so that the paste is just 
stiff to be made a big ball. Press the ball flat and cover 
it ail round with a few layers of banana leaves. Bum it 



126 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECnONERY 

on mild heat till well boiled. Remove the burnt leaves 
when cold and serve. 

ASKA PITHA. 

Make a thick paste of powdered rice, salt and some 
scraped kernel of cocoa-nut, if desired, with water. Heat 
an earthen frying pot, smear with a little oil, add a small 
tea-cupful of the paste and cover up. A little later the 
cake will smell. Take out when properly boiled. The. 
lieat should be mild. 

TAWA PURL 

Make a paste of ^ powa of almonds and ^ powa of 
pistachios and mix thoroughly with i powa powdered 
su^ar candy and i tola of powdered cardamoms. 

Mix thoroughly ^ seer of fine flour, |- seer of besam of 
grams and i chhatak of ghee, and knead to a stiff paste 
with water. Make balls, stuff them with the above prepa- 
ration, press into round thin dies and fry in plenty of ghee 
like Luchi. 



BADSHAHI ROTI. 

Half boil 1 1 powa of husked pulses of kalai and fry 
them with ghee. Bind them with a clean piece of linen 
and boil in steam above boiling water in a pot with the 
lid on. Make a paste of them when they are soft and 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I 27 

mix with curd |- powa, pasted ginger | chhatak, powdered 
^aram-masalla ^ tola, a little powdered pepper and salt. 
-Again boil a little in steam as before. 

Mix I chhatak of ghee with i seer of flour and make 
a stiff paste with water. Make medium balls, stuff them 
with the spiced paste of pulses, roll into discs of medium 
thickness and fry both sides of each on mild heat 
-sprinkling ghee little by little. Take down when 
browned. 



DAI-BARA. 

Grind some moistened pulses of kalai to a paste. 
-Add salt* and beat thoroughly. Prepare cakes of it and 
"fry in ghee or oil till brown. 

Boil a little ghee with a few mustard seeds and add 
■some curd. Stir and take down. Keep the fried baras 
immersed in the curd for several hours, and then serve. 



PAMPAR 

Boil 3 powas of husked pulses of moog, peas or grams 
lill saturated with water. Grind them to a paste, mix with 
I powa of fine besam and beat till the mass is sticky. 
Then mix with entire aniseeds^ black cumin and powdered 
pepper. Make balls of it and roll into thin discs. Fry 
in enough ghee or oil. Raw discs of pampar can also be 
boii^ht from" the market. 



128 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

JHURIBHAJA. 

Prepare a thick solution of besam and water, add salt 
and powdered chillies, and beat thoroughly. Then drop- 
it on boiling oil or ghee through a finely perforated ladle- 
and fry till brown. 

DAL-BHAJA. 

Keep some husked pulses of grams under water for 
2 or 3 hours. Then fry the moistened pulses with salt 
and powdered chillies with sufficient ghee or oil on gentle- 
heat, stirring all the while, till they are brittle to eat. 

JHAL-BARA. 

Moisten i powa of husked pulses of grams'for about 
6 hours and grind them to a paste. Add a handful of 
pulses of grams, some chopped onions, salt and minced 
green chillies, and beat thoroughly. Form small flat 
cakes and fry in plenty of boiling ghee or oil. 

PUDDING of RICE. 

Boil ^- powa of rice in water till quite soft. Beat- 
thoroughly two eggs in a pot, add i^ powa of milk, 
^ powa of sugar and the boiled rice, and stir thoroughly. 
Heat on charcoal fire for about an hour. 

PUDDING of MIDDLINGS ( Suji ). 

, Beat thoroughly the white portions of two eggs and 
rhix thoroughly with i powa of middlings, milk |- seer,. 



INDIAN GQOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY; 129 

sugar I- powa, the yolks of the two eggs' and ja. pinch of 
salt. Heat on charcoal fire for about an hour. 

PUDDING of LOAF. 

Heat ^ seer of milk and as soon as it boils add 5- powa 
of a loaf of bread broken into fragments, and take down. 
When cold add the yolks of two eggs, ^ powa of sugar, 
some jelly of any fruit and a little powdered mace, and 
mix up. Heat for about half an hour. 

Second Variety : — Smear the bottom and sides of a 
pan with some butter and arrange slices of a loaf of bread 
and raisins in alternate layers up to the brim. Then add 
milk minced with ade'cjuate 'quantities of sugar, the yolks 
of eggs and a pinch of salt. Heat for about an hour. 

SOLID CURD. 

Boil milk till it is reduced to half Pour it in an 
earthen, stone or porcelain pot. Add sugar and a little 
sour curd when slightly warm and mix up. Place the 
pot on another , containing hot water. The milk will be 
transformed into solid curd in about twelve hours if kept 
undisturbed. 

MADHURAMLA KHANDA. 

( Pieces tasting sweet and sour ) 

Mix /^ powa of curd with |- seer of besam of moog and 
add water making- a thin paste. Beat the paste for about 

9 



130 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

15 minutes. Boil it and stir continuously till the paste 
is very thick. Then place the paste on an wooden plate 
and stir till stirring is quite difficult. Press the paste flat 
about ^ inch thick. Cut it in cubes with a knife when 
cold. Fry the cubes with sufficient ghee and immerse 
in a syrup of sugar. 

Mix -I" tola of powdered garam-masalla^ ^ tola of 
powdered pepper and a little salt with about i g- powa of 
curd and heat. Drop the cubes in the curd when it is 
warm, continue heating and take down when the curd is 
thick and sticks to the sides of the cubes. 



AM-SANDESH. 

Prepare a syrup of one seer of brownish powder-like 
sugar ( kasir chini ) and cool it. Drive out the whey from 
chhana keeping it under high pressure for a few hours. 
Make a fine paste of one seer of hard chhana without 
whey. Note that chhana is always pasted with the hands 
on an wooden plate. 

Now heat the syrup in a thick iron pot and when it is 
warm add the pasted chhana. Stir constantly and 
vigorously with an wooden ladle for the whole sandesh 
will taste bitter if only slightly burned. When the mass 
is sticky, take the pot off fire, place on a circular stand 
of straw and stir as before, adding cardamom-seeds, pieces 
of almonds and pistachios if desired, till cold. 

Then smear the interior of a mango-shaped cast with 
the juice of a kind of ginger scented like green mangoes- 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 131 

each time as a ball of the sandesh is pressed into the cast 
to give the desired shape. 

In preparing sandesh always use iron pot and wooden 
ladle and as soon as it is prepared transfer it on an 
wooden plate when moulded into shapes. Then keep 
Ihem in earthen pots. 

KASTURO-SANDESH. 

Mix pastes of hard chhana i seer and almonds |- powa 
with syrup of white sugar 3 powas, and heat on fire. Stir 
<;ontinuously and vigorously till sticky when taking off the 
fire add pieces of pistachios i chhatak and 4 drops of 
essence of rose, and stir as before till cold and hard. 
Make balls of it and give any shape with the help of 
casts. 

GOLLA-SANDESH. 

Heat syrup of sugar i^ seer and when slightly warm 
add a paste of hard chhana i seer. Stir continuously and 
-vigorously till sticky. Then take it off fire and stir as 
before till cold. This sandesh is generally not so hard 
as to take any definite arid durable shape. So make 
tialls of it and serve. 

SANDESH with DATE SUGAR. 

Prepare a syrup of i^ seer of solid date-sugar ( khejuri 
gur ) and when it is slightly warm add a paste of t seer 



152 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERy 

jof hard chhana. Stir vigorously. When it is sticky and 
boiling take it off fire, add about ^ powa of ordinary^ 
sugar and mix thoroughly which will render the mass- 
thick very quickly. Remove the mass on an wooden 
plate. Add pieces of pistachios and 6 or 7 drops of 
essence of rose and rub thoroughly. Make balls and press- 
in casts. 



SANDESH with KHEER. 

Heat syrup of 3 powas of sugar and when slightly 
warm add a paste of ^ seer of hard chhana. Stir 
vigorously till sticky when add pastes of khowa kheer i 
powa, almonds i chhatak, pistachios ^ chhatak and 
powdered cardamom seeds ^ tola, and mix thoroughly. 
Take off the fire, mix a handful of sugar and stir as- 
before. Make balls and press in casts when cold. 



GOPAL-BHOG 

Take fioebesam'of moog ^ seer, fine flour i powa, 
sugar I powa, middlings | powa, §eraped and pasted 
cocoa-nut kernel | powa, entire black sesames i chhatak, 
powdered garam-masalla 4 tola and a liajf ppinch of 
camphor, and mix together. Make a stiff paste with hot 
water, make balls of it, fry in ghee or oil and keep 
immeked in a' syrup of sugar - for 12 to -24 h^urs. ^ ( -jsj 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY [ 1 33 

SWEETS of FLATTENED RICE. 

Wash I powa of flattened rice and keep moistened 
-with milk for 15 or 20 minutes. Take the moistened 
flattened rice out and make a paste of them with I- seer of 
hard chhana. Mix with middlings up to ^ powa in weight. 
Make balls of it, stuff them with a mixture of khowa 
■kheer, pieces or a paste of almonds and pistachios, 
powdered sugar-candy and a few entire seeds of carda- 
mom, form oval cakes, fry in ghee and immerse in a 
syrup of sugar. 

MONORANJAN of KHEER. 

Heat I seer of khowa kheer and i^J- seer of white 
sugar in a brass pot and stir continuously and vigorously 
till perfectly blended together when mix with powdered 
■cardamom seeds, pieces of almonds and pistachios and 
4 or 5 drops of essence of rose, and take down. Make 
balls of it and give a flat semi-circular or any other form 
to them through casts. 

SWEETS of COCOA NUT. 

The simplest preparation is to heat equal quantities 
•of scraped and pasted cocoa-nut kernel and a syrup of 
sugar, stirring vigorously with a ladle till the mass sticks 
to the sides of the pot and the ladle, when the mass is to 
be taken off the fire, made, into balls and pressed in 
^casts. ■ 



134 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

A better preparation : — Heat together scraped and 
pasted cocoa-nut kernel i powa, khowa kheer or pasted 
hard chhana I powa, pasted almonds i chhatak and a 
syrup of sugar 5 powas in a brass pot. Stir continuously 
and vigorously till the mass sticks to the sides of the pot 
and ladle, taking care that it does not burn even very 
slightly in which case it becomes very unpleasant to taste. 
Then take it off fire and mix with pieces of pistachios- 
and powdered cardamom seeds. Make balls of it when 
slightly warm and press in flat semi-circular or other 
shapes. 

Another variety :— Fry raisins 2 tolas, pieces of 
almonds 2 tolas, pieces of pistachios I tola, cardamom 
seeds |- tola and powdered aniseed ^ tola with a tea-spoon- 
ful of cows' ghee, and mix with khowa kheer I chhatak, 
crystals of sugar-candy i chhatak and very little- 
camphor. 

Boil a syrup of three powas of sugar in a brass pot and 
add 3 powas of scraped and pasted kernel of not-so-ripe 
cocoa-nut and i powa of pasted hard chhana. Stir 
vigorously on mild heat till the mass sticks to the sides of 
the pot and ladle when taking off the fire mix thoroughly 
with 4 or 5 drops of essence of rose. Make balls of it 
when slightly warm, stuff with the spiced kheer and press 
in casts. Eat them up within a week for after that they 
give out a bad smell. 

BALUSAI. 

Mix thoroughly i powa of butter, i seer of fine flour, 
a little powdered cardamoms and very little camphor or 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 35 

essence of rose. Make a stiff paste with water or milk 
and heat thoroughly. Make balls of it, press them in the 
middle with a thumb, fry hard in plenty of ghee and keep 
immersed in a very concentrated syrup of sugar for a few 
hours. 



GAJA. 

Mix together fine flour i seer, ghee i powa, entire 
black sesames |- chhatak and some entire aniseeds. Make 
a very stiff" paste with as little water as possible. Make 
balls of it or cut with a knife in cubes, fry hard in plenty 
of ghee and keep immersed in a very concentrated syrup 
of sugar till saturated. Then take them out and dry in 
the air. 

GUJIA. 

Heat ^ seer of kheer and 3 chhataks of sugar and stir 
till the mass is non-sticky when it is to be taken down 
and mixed with powdered cardamoms ^ tola, powdered 
sugar-candy |- powa and pastes of almonds and pistachios 
Y chhatak each. Make small balls of it, stuff with minced 
almonds and pistachios and immerse in a syrup of sugar 
coloured with saffron. 

SARPURIA, 

Boil fiV^e seers of undiluted milk in two pans and stir 
for a few minutes. Then make the: heat very mild and 



1 36 -INDiAN -COOKER Y' AND CONFECTIdNERY 

cease stirring' altogether wken creams will form, Wheu 
the creams are quite tliick remove one on the other 
in the other pans Cream \i^ill again appear on the milk 
from which it is^ removed. Remove this again on the 
other. Continue in this way 4 or 5 times when remove 
one fourth of the milk from the pan contaming the cream 
to the other, and again proceed in the same way till the 
cream is quite thick. Then remove it on a plate and cut 
in big squares. Boil some pure cows' ghee in another 
pan with some powdered sugar -candy and a little 
powdered cardamom seeds. Smear the squares with this 
spiced ghee and arrange one on another till the desired 
thickness is reached. Then bake both sides of them for 
a little while with a little milk. The heat must be very 
mild, otherwise the cream will melt into ghee. 

Krishnagore in Bengal is famous for this delicacy. 

GOLAPJAM. 

Make a paste of ^ seer hard chhana and mix 
thoroughly with f seer of sabeda ( powdered atap rice ) 
with a little Water if necessary. Make medium balls of 
it and boil in a syrup of sugar till stiff. Then take them 
but and smear with dry sugar. 

RASA-GOLLA. 

Make a paste of i seer of hard chhana and mix with 
the seeds of a few cardamoms and 4 drops of essence 
pf rose. One powa of sabeda may also be mixed but 



INDIAN. COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 137 

•Tasagolla without sabeda is better to. taste. Make bills of 
It, stuff each with a piece of sugar candy to make them 
hollow and drop into a boiling syrup of kasir chini. Boil 
till they are brownish ,iij ^colour. If a syrup of white 
sugar is used they will be white and are to be boiled till 
-5tiff. Keep them in the syrup till they are served. Eat 
,them up within 3 or 4 days. 



RAJ-BHOG. 

Make a paste of ^ seer of hard chhana and mix 
thoroughly with khowa kheer |- seer, middlings |- powa, 
a paste of i chhatak of almonds, powdered aniseeds ^ 
tola and a little powdered cardamom seeds. Make a paste 
soft but stiff enough to be made into balls with a little 
milk if necessary. Make big balls ( 10 or 12 in number ), 
stuff them with a mixture of broken pieces of sugar-candy 
|- powa, raisins one chhatak and 2 or 3 drops of essence of 
rose. Drop them into a boiling syrup of sugar. They 
will float at first but will sink down as soon as well boiled. 
Then take the pan off fire. Serve a few hours late. 

KHEER MOHAN. 

Make a paste of i seer of hard chhana and make balls 
■of it. Stuff each of them with a drop of essence of rose, a 
pinch of powdered cardamoms and a little khowa kheer 
-and slightly flatten them. Drop them in a boiling syrup 
•pf sugar. Take them out when they are a little brownish. 



T38 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

in colour and roll on white sugar crystals. Serve whert 
cool. 



CHAMCHAM. 

Make a paste of ^i seer of hard chhana and mix 
thoroughly with i chhatak of middlings or sabeda, seeds- 
of a few cardamoms^ a tea-spoonful of rose-water and a 
little milk if necessary to make a mud-like paste. Make 
round and long finger-like cakes of it and drop them in a- 
boiling syrup of sugar. Pick them out when a little 
brownish in colour and roll on crystalline sugar. 

With kheer : — Make a muddy paste of i seer of khowa 
kheer with milk and 2 or 3 tea-spoonfuls of rose-water 
and then mix with the seeds of a few cardamoms, a little 
powdered aniseeds, some pieces of pistachios and very- 
little camphor. Prepare cakes as before and boil in a 
syrup of sugar on mild heat till hard and well boiled 
when pick them out and roll on crystalline sugar. Serve 
when cool. 

MIHIDANA. 

Make a moderately thick paste of besam 2^ powas 
and sabeda i^ powas with water and mix with very little 
saffron if desired to give a reddish colour. Hold a finely 
perforated iron ladle over a pan of boiling ghee. Pour 
some of the solution in the ladle and shake it up and 
down when the solution will fall in the ghee in very fine 
drops. Take them out when they are fried and keej>' 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 39" 

them in a concentrated syrup of sugar ( preferably of 
kasir chini ) till saturated with it. Then take them out 
and mix with cardamom seeds, raisins, pieces of pistachios 
and almonds and a little hot ghee. Make balls of it if 
desired. 

SITABHOG. 

Mix thoroughly ^ powa of ghee with 3 powas of flour 
of superfine quality and make a thin paste of it with 
I seer of hard chhana or khowa kheer pasted with the 
hands and sufficient quantity of milk or water. Hold a 
finely perforated ladle over a pan of boiling ghee ( pre- 
ferably cow's ghee ) of excellent quality. Pour the 
solution in the ladle and shake it up and down when the 
solution will fall in the ghee in broken streams. • Then 
take them out before they are even slightly browned and 
keep them in a syrup of sugar ( preferably of kasir chini ) 
previously prepared till saturated. 

Burdwan in Bengal is famous for Mihidana and; 
Sitabhog. 

BONDE. 

Make a thin paste of i seer of middlings and i seer 
of sabeda with water. It may be coloured with a pinch 
of saffron. Boil ghee in a pan and hold on it a ladle with 
big perforations. Pour the solution in the ladle and shake 
it up and down that big drops may fall in the ghee. 
Take them out when fried hard and red, and keep in a. 
syrup of sugar till saturated. - 



1 40 INDIAN COOKERY AND -CONFECTIONERY 

With Mangoes : — Peel some sweet ripe mangoes of 
the best qualities and strain the juice in an enamelled pot 
up to 1 1- seers. Mix^ with it middlings I- powa, sabeda 
4 powa, besam | powa and a little powdered cardamom 
seeds, and beat thoroughly. Fry big Bonde wjth it as 
before and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar till 
;saturated. .'< ■ ' )i : ■' '■ ' ' 

DARBESH. 

Make a thin paste of equal quantities of besam and 
middlings with water. Take half of the solution in 
another pot and mix with saffron. Fry bonde of medium 
size separately with the two solutions. Take them out of 
the ghee before they are hard and keep immersed in a 
syrup of sugar till saturated. Mix the red and yellow 
bonde thoroughly and take them out. Mix with raisins, 
pieces of almonds and a little hot ghee, and make balls 
-of it. 



MONOHARA. 

Mix thoroughly i chhatak of ghee with flour i powa, 
powdered rice 3 chhataks and middlings i chhatak. Then 
add moistened and pasted pulses of kalai ^ powa, husked 
sesame ^ powa and adequate quantities of salt, aniseeds, 
cardamom seeds, ginger-juice, powdered pepper and water 
to make a not-so-stiff paste. Beat thoroughly. Make 
small squares of it about ^ inch th^ck and fry in ghee. 



fNDI AN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERy 141 

Keep them in a very concentrated syrup of sugar for say 
half an hour: Then • take them out and roll on dry- 
sugar. 

Keep the sesames moist under water for a few hours 
and then dry them in the sun. Rub them with the hands- 
when they are dried and the. husks are removed. 

t ' 

CHANDRA-PROVA. 

The ingredients and the preparation are practically 
the same as in Monphara. Only double the quantity of 
husked sesame is taken. Pasted almonds also may be 
added. Make squares as before and fry in ghee. Don't 
roll on sugar. 

Boil say 2^ seers of milk till it is less than half and 
add sugar as desired, a little rose water, 'very little cam- 
phor and the fried squares. Boil a few minutes more and 
serve in cups when cool. 

PANTOA. 

■■ Make a fine paste of i seer of Hard chhana and mix: 
thoroughly with i chhatak of sabeda. Make slightly 
elongated balls of it with one cardamom seed at the- 
centre of each. Boil |- seer of ghee till the bubbles die 
out and then fry the balls in it till reddish brown. Then 
pick them up and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar till 
saturated with it. 

; ; With kheer :— Mix ^chhatak of ghee thoroughly with- 
c chhataks of sabeda and make a stiff paste with a little 



T42 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

<old water. Mix this again with i seer of khowa kheef 
and make a fine paste with the hands. Then proceed 
exactly in the same way as before. 



CHHANABARA. 

Mix I seer of chhana ( not hard ) with 2^ powas of 
sabeda and make a moderately stiff yet fine paste of the 
mixture adding a little water if necessary. Make spheri- 
cal bajls of it, fry them in ghee and keep immersed in a 
-syrup of sugar till saturated. 



LADY CANNING. 

Mix ^ chhatak of ghee with i powa of middlings and 
mix this again with 3 powas or more of hard chhana. 
Make a fine paste with the hands. Make big spherical 
balls of it and stuff each with a little pasted khowa kheer. 
Fry them in boiling ghee till red. Then pick them out 
and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar till saturated 
when taking them out smear all over with dry crystalline 
white sugar. 

The name has a history behind it. A famous sweet- 
meat dealer of Bengal, it is said, prepared a special big- 
sized sweet and made a present of it to Lady Canning, 
then.vice-reine of India. Hence the sweet-meat derived 
the name. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 43 

MALPOA. 

Make a thick paste with fine flour ^ seer^ curd i powa, 
entire seeds of big cardamoms i tola, and an adequate 
-quantity of water. Boil ghee ( or oil ) i powa or a little 
more till the bubbles die out. Fry in it ^ powa of the 
paste at a time till light brown and keep immersed in a 
Tsyrup of sugar till saturated. Malpoas are of flat circular 
shape of moderate thickness. 

MALPOA with CHHANA. 

Make a thick paste with |- seer of hard chhana, pasted 
with the hands, |- seer of sabeda, powdered pepper, 
powdered cubebs, entire seeds of big cardamoms, entire 
aniseed i tola each and adequate quantity of water. Fry 
as before ^ powa of the paste at a time in plenty of 
boiling ghee and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar till 
saturated. Solid curd from which water has been 
squeezed out through a bag of a piece of linen may be 
substituted for chhana in which case it is called Malpoa 
Tvith curd, 

MALPOA with KHEER. 

Mix I powa of milk with i|- powa middlings and keep 
^aside for about an hour. Then mix it with ^ seer of 
"thofoiighly pasted, khowa kheer and adequate quantity 
-of niilktto make the mass a moderately thick paste. Also 



144 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

mix powders of aniseed,^ (jardanjom and pepper. Thert 
fry as before and drop into a syrup of sugar. 

JILAPI. 

Mix I ppwa of water with i powa of middlings and 
keep aside for 5 or 6 hours. Then mix with i seer oF 
sabeda, a pinch of saffron and an adequate quantity of 
water making a thick paste. Boil ^ seer or 3 powas of 
ghee in a pan till vapour rises. Then put the paste in a 
cocoa-nut shell or a linen bag with a small hole at the 
bottom and d'rdp it in the pan in a thin stream. Suitable 
designs may be made by manipulating the hand^ the 
common one being a spiral of two circumferences crossed 
by one straight line; Fry both sides till hard and red. 
Then take them out and keep immersed in a syrup or 
sugar till saturated. 

AMRITHI. 

Mix ^ seer of sabeda and ^ seer of middlings with 3- 
powas of water and a tea-spoonful of lime-water, and keep- 
aside for 10 or 12 hcurs. Add a pinch of saffron and a 
little more water if necessary to make a thin paste. 
Then fry as before in ■ ghee in suitable designs, the 
common one being a big circle with a continuous spiral 
rings round its circumference, and keep immersed into a 
syrup of sugar. 

With chhana : Mix i|- powa of sabeda and i chhatak 
of middlihgsl with i' powa "of water and "keep; aside, for 10 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I45 

or 12 hours. Then mix with a fine paste of^ seer of 
hard chhana, a pinch of saffron if desired and an adequate 
quantity of water making a thick paste. Fry Amritti or 
Jilapi with this paste as before and keep immersed in a 
syrup of sugar till saturated. 



RASA-MADHURI. 

Make a fine paste of |- seer of hard chhana and mix 
with Y seer of s^bedfi apd, a, little jvyAter making a dough. 
Make small balls of it and boil in a syrup of sugar. Then 
take them out and roll on white sugar. When cold roll 
again on crystals of sugar-candy after dipping them 
for a moment, if necessary, into a cold syrup of sugar. 

RASA-BARA, 

Make fine pastes of ^ seer of pulses of Kalai, mois- 
tened for a few hours, and i powa of hard chhana 
separately. Then mix them together adding a few 
entire cubebs and seeds of a few ' big cardamoms, and 
beat thoroughly. Fry this paste in medium balls till 
deep brown in ghee or oil and keep them in a syrup of 
sugar till saturated. They taste better than fresh if taken 
after 1 4 or 15 hours. 

BARFI of MOOG. 

Keep 2 seers of pulses of moog moistened for 2 or 3 
hours and then make a paste of them. Beat i seer of 
10 



146 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

ghee till very white when mix it with the pasted 
moog, pieces of almonds r| tolas, raisins 2 tolas, pieces 
of pistachios i tola, powders of pepper 2 tolas, coriander 
I tola, aniseed ^ tola and saffron ^ tola. Heat the mass 
in a pan and stir constantly till red when pour in a syrup 
of 2 seers of sugar. Continue stirring till the mass is 
very thick. Then pour it in a flat plate and cut it in 
cubes when cold. 



BARFI of MANGOES. 

Peel some sweet ripe mangoes and strain off the juice 
through a clean piece of linen. Boil the juice in an 
enamelled pot ai^d stir constantly adding cow's ghee little 
by little till very thick when take it off fire and mix with 
an adequate quantity of very concentrated syrup of sugar 
and powdered cardamoms. Pour it in a flat plate. It 
will be solid after some time. Then cut in cubes. 



BARFI of ALMONDS. 

Keep I seer of shelled almonds moist for about an 
hour. Then skin them and make a paste of them. Mix 
the paste with i powa of khowa kheer and -J- tola of pow- 
dered cardamom seeds. Boil i chhatak of ghee in a pan, 
add the paste and stirring a little add a concentrated 
syrup of Y seer of sugar. Continue stirring till thick. 
Then smear a flat plate with a little ghee and pour the 
mass in it. Cut in cubes when solid. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERV I47 

BARFI of CHHANA. 

Heat a syrup of 1 seer of sugar and when warm add 
I seer of a paste of hard chhana. Stir constantly and 
vigorously. Add pieces of almonds and pistachios i tola 
•each and a pinch of powdered cardamoms when thick. 
Take the pan off fire when the mass is very thick and 
stir as before. Transfer the mass in a wooden plate when 
a little cooled. Cut in cubes when solid. 

BARFI of PISTACHIOS. 

Skin I powa of pistachios after keeping them mois- 
tened for about an hour and make a paste of them. Fry 
the paste with i chhatak of ghee till reddish brown and 
add ^ powa of pasted khowa kheer, a little powdered 
cardamoms and a syrup of i|- powa of sugar. Stir cons- 
tantly till thick when transfer it in a flat plate and cut 
in cubes when cold. 

BARFI of GRAMS. 

Keep Y seer of pulses of grams moist for 5 or 6 hours 
and make a paste of them. Fry the paste with i|- powa 
of ghee to a reddish brown, colour. Then add a pinch of 
saffron, another of powdered cardamoms and syrup of 
sugar ^ seer. Stir incessantly till quite thick when 
transfer it in a flat plate smeared with ghee and cut in 
cubes when congealed. 



148 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

BARFI of KHEER, 

Mix I tola of powdered cardamoms and 4 or 5 drops- 
of essence of rose with i seer of khowa kheer. Boil a 
syrup of I seer of sugar^ add ^ powa of broken pieces of 
sugar-candy and the kheer^ and stir till very thick 
when transfer it in a ilat plate and cut in cubes 
when slightly warm. 

BARFI of COCOA NUT. 

Scrape a few half-ripe cocoa-nut kernels and make 
a paste of them. Mix 4- seer of this paste with |- seer 
of khowa kheer and fry the mixture a little without 
ghee or oil. Then add i tola of powdered carda- 
moms and a syrup of i seer of sugar. Stir constantly 
till very thick and gluey. Then take the pan off 
fire and transfer the mass in a flat plate. Cut in 
cubes when cold. 

BARFI of ORANGES. 

Peel some oranges and further skin them separating" 
the grains. Eoil i^ seers of milk till it reduces ta 
only 3 powas and then add i|- seers of the grains 
of oranges. No fear that the milk will turn into whey 
if the oranges are sweet and very ripe. Boil on mild 
heat and stir constantly till the mass is very thick. 
Then remove the pan off fire and mix thoroughly 
with a very concentrated syrup of 3 powas of sugar. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I 49 

.4 drops of essence of rose, a little powdered carda- 
moms, pieces of almonds, pistachios and raisins i tola 
■each. Boil again if necessary till very thick and 
gluey when remove it in a flat plate and cut in cubes 
■when solid. 

If the oranges are not so sweet and ripe, then boil 
them in the syrup of sugar, instead of milk, and then add 
the condensed milk. Of course the sweets prepared thus 
are not so palatable. 



PAYESH. 

Boil some milk for a few minutes and then add 
1;horou,5hly washed finest atap rice at the rate of i 
chhatak per seer of milk. Cook on mild heat and stir 
constantly. When the rice are boiled to softness in about a 
half hour add i powa of sugar for every seer of milk and 
pieces of almonds, pistachios and raisins as desired. Take 
-down when the desired thickness is reached after mixing 
with a little powdered cardamom and very little 
camphor. 

Adequate quantity of fresh and pure honey may be 
substituted for sugar in which case it is called Payesh of 
Honey. If it is eaten in excessive quantities a little 
burning sensation is felt on the body. 

PAYESH of NALEN GUR. 

Fry |- powa of rice with i chhatak of ghee and drop 
them in i seer of boiling milk. Stir constantly. When the 



150 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

rice are fully boiled add i powa of finest nalen gur ( i|- 
powa if liquid ) prepared from the juice of date palm. 
Then add raisins, pieces of almonds and pistachios as- 
desired. Take down when thick and mix with a pinch of 
powdered cardamoms and very little camphor. 

PAYESH of JUICE of DATE PALM. 

Boil 2 seers of the juice of date palm and constantly 
remove the scum formed on the surface. When scum 
no longer appears add i powa of rice. Add i seer of 
milk when the rice are fully boiled and stir incessantly 
till thick when take down after mixing with a little 
nalen gur and very little camphor. 

PAYESH of CHINRE. 

Boil I seer of milk till it is reduced to half. Then add 
I or i|- chhatak of chinre, after washing it, |- powa of 
sugar, powders of cardamom seeds and cubebs i pinch 
each, raisins, pieces of almonds and pistachios as desired. 
Stir continually and take down when it is a thick mass. 
Crops like bhura, bajra, cheena, etc. which are grown in 
various parts of India outside Bengal are used as a 
substitute for chinre in their respective places of origin. 

PAYESH of CHHANA. 

Heat a syrup of 1.^ powa of sugar. When it is warm 
add |- seer of pasted fresh chhana and stir constantly. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 151 

Take down when they are perfectly blended together 
and keep covered. Boil 2 seers of milk till it is reduced 
to half and then add the mixture of chhana and sugar. 
Boil on mild heat and stir constantly. A little later add 
I chhatak of raisins, pieces of almonds ^ chhatak and 
pieces of pistachios i^ tola. Take down when thick 
after mixing with half a table-spoonful of rose water or 
3 or 4 drops of essence of rose. It is very tasteful 
preparation. 



PAYESH of CABBAGE. 

Remove the upper leaves of a cabbage till the tender 
white leaves appear. Then chop it in small very fine 
pieces. Boil 2 seers of milk till it is reduced to i|- seers. 
Then add 2^ or 3 powas of the pieces of cabbage. When 
well boiled add i|- powas of sugar^ raisins, pistachios and 
almonds as desired. Take down when thick and mix 
with very little camphor. The pieces of cabbage may be 
boiled in water and then dropped in boiling milk. 

PAYESH of SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil I seer of sweet potatoes, skin them, rub to a 
pulp and remove the fibres, if any. Boil ^ powa of ghee 
with a pinch of aniseeds and fry the pulp with the ghee. 
Then add i seer of milk, i^ powa of sugar, raisins, 
almonds and pistachios as desired. Stir constantly all the 
while. Mix with very little camphor when thick and take 



152 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

down. Ordinary potatoes may be substituted for sweet 
potatoes, only a little more sugar is required. 

PAYESH of MUN. 

Peel thickly a non-irritating mun ( arum ) and cut 
in very small and very thin pieces. Boil i seer of them 
in water mixed with the juice of a lemon. Then drain 
out the water and wash again with fresh water. Fry 
them with |- powa of ghee heated with a few cassia leaves, 
cloves and cardamoms, all entire. Then add i|- seer of 
milk. Stir constantly. Add sugar 2^ powas, raisins, 
almonds and pistachios as desired when the milk is 
reduced to i seer. Take down when thick and mix with 
very little camphor. 

PAYESH of POPPY SEEDS. 

Keep I powa of poppy seeds moist in water for an 
hour and then make a paste of them adding water little 
by little. Fry a few cassia leaves and cardamom seeds 
in I chhatak of ghee and then fry the pasted poppy seeds 
till light brown. Add i seer of milk, i powa of sugar, 
raisins, pistachios and almonds as desired. Stir 
constantly and take down when thick. 

PAYESH of SAGO. 

Boil a seer of milk and when it is reduced to half add 
I chLatak of sago, after washing with water. Stir 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 53 

incessantly. A little later add |- povva of sugar-candy, 
raisins, almonds and pistachios as desired. Take down 
when thick and mix with a pinch of powdered cardamom 
seeds and very little camohor. 

HALUA ORDINARY. 

Heat |- powa of ghee with a few cassia leaves and 
when the bubbles die out fry i powa of middlings and 
-g- powa of raisins with the ghee till brown. Then add i 
powa of sugar and stirring for about a minute pour in 
I -g- powa of water. Add pieces of almonds and pistachios 
if desiied. Stir constantly and take down when thick. 

HALUA of RAISINS. 

Remove the stems of |- seer of raisins and wash them. 
Heat 3 chhataks of ghee with a few cassia leaves and 
when the bubbles die out fry the raisins with the ghee 
till they begin to melt when pour in a syrup of |- seer of 

■sugar and stir constantly. Take down when thick and 
mix with the seeds of a few cardamoms and very little 

•camphor. 

HALUA of GINGER. 

Skin ^ seer of ginger, cut them in pieces and boil in 
about I" seer of water till the water is reduced to ^ powa 
•or less. Then make a paste of the boiled pieces and mix 
with Is- powa of flour and the water in which they were 



154 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

boiled. Fry this mass with about |- seer of ghee and' 
then pour in a syrup of 3 powas of sugar. Stir constantly 
and take down when thick. 



HALUA of MOOG. 

Keep y seer of pulses of moog in water for 3 or 4 
hours and then make a paste of them. Heat i powa of 
ghee with a few aniseeds and when the bubbles die out 
fry the paste with it stirring constantly to prevent the 
mass becoming hard. Then add 1^ powa of milk, i powa 
of sugar, pinch of powdered cardamom, raisins, pieces of 
almonds and pistachios. A little khowa kheer may be 
added if desired. Take down when thick and mix with 
very little camphor. If besam of moog is used in-tead of 
pasted moog and prepared as ordinary Halua with these 
ingredients it will be a more tasteful preparation. 



HALUA of PAPAWS 

Peel a few ripe papaws, remove the seeds, etc., and 
make a liquid-like paste of them. Strain it through a very 
fine piece of linen if necessary. Heat a little ghee and 
when the bubbles die out add the paste of papaws and 
stir constantly. A little later add adequate quantities of 
milk, sugar, pastes of raisins, almonds and pistachios. 
Take down when the mass begins to cr_vstallise when 
properly thick. Similarly halua of boiled and pasted 
pumpkin may be prepared. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 55 

HALUA of MILK 

Required % — Miik i seer, a syrup of i povva of sugar- 
candy, ghee ^ powa and a paste of |- powa of almonds. 
It is also prepared without ghee. 

Boil the milk on mild heat. Add the syrup and ghee 
to it in four instalments at intervals. Last of all add the 
pasted almonds. Take down when thick. Stir all along 
to prevent the formation of cream. 

NANKHATAI. 

Mix I chhatak of ghee with i seer of flour or 
middlings and again mix with |- seer of sugar. Then 
make a very stiff paste with about 2^ powas of water. 
Make balls of it, press them a little flat and fry in plenty 
of ghee till brown. 

TILUA. 

Prepare a very thick syrup of i seer of sugar and beat 
thoroughl)' adding i powa of very fine flour and a hand- 
ful of sesames. Pour it in a round flat dish to half 
inch thickness. Sprinkle a few more sesames on the 
surface if you like. Take the mass out when cold and 
solid in the form of a big disc. 

KHEERELA. 

Boil 2 seers of milk. Add a table spoonful of suga 
when half reduced. Stir the more carefully and vigorously 



156 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

the more it is thick. Take down when the milk becomes 
a stiff paste. Scrape together the paste that sticks to the 
sides of the pan and beat thoroughly to a fine muddy one. 
Prepare finger-like round and long forms stuffed with a 
few seeds of cardamom and fry in plenty of ghee till 
reddish brown. 

KHEER of TAL. 

Skin a sweet and ripe tal fruit and separate the seeds. 
Beat each a little with the hands and rub against a sieve 
or a small basket of bamboo or iron placing a plate 
beneath it. The pulp of the fruit will be collected on the 
plate. The pulp may be used now as it is but it tastes 
better if it is mixed with a little water and held high in 
a bag of linen till the whole of the water is drained off in 
drops. 

Heat I seer of milk on very mild heat till it is 
reduced to 3 powas when add ^- seer of the pulp and stir 
constantly. Take down when the mass is thick and 
gluey after mixing with raisins, pieces . of almonds and 
pistachios, powders of cardamoms and aniseeds -^ tola 
each and very little camphor. Serve when cool with 
bread. 



KHEER of GRAPES. 

Wash I seer of grapes, remove the stems and boil with 
a little water. Then crush them with the hands in the 
water bringing out the juice. Throw away the skins and 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 157 

seeds. Heat the juice. Add i powa of sugar when it 
boils. A dd the heated yolks of 3 or 4 eggs when much 
reduced. Take down when thick and mix with 4 or 
5 drops of essence of rose. Serve when cool. It increases 
strength, intellect and memory. 

KHEER ORDINARY. 

Make a paste of ^ seer of khowa kheer and drop it 
into I seer of boiling milk. Add i^ powa of sugar and 
stir constantly till the piass is thick when taking down 
mix with some pasted almonds, some pieces of pistachios 
and 3 or 4 drops of essence of rose. Serve when cool. 

METHAI of KUMRA. 

Peel a big ripe white gourd, cut in big pieces and 
remove all the seeds. Make perforations all over the 
pieces with an iron pin. Boil them in a syrup of i|- seer 
till it is very thick and scanty. Then take the pan off fire- 
and shake it till the syrup is mixed up with the pieces. 
Arrange the pieces on a plate and fan them to cool. 
They are very tasteful and yet easily digested. 

CAKES with GINGER. 

Make a paste of I powa of besam ofm og with some 
water and fry it in small cakes in boiling ghee till very 
hard. Then powder them. Mix the powder with' fried. 



158 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

and powdered asafoetida -j- tola, powdered cumin and 
pepper ^ tola each, pasted ginger i chhatak and a 
rtable-spoonful of lemon^juice. 

Make a stiff paste of further ^ seer of besam of moog 
with water, make balls of it, press them flat, stuff with 
the above spiced preparation and close them again 
making a. little flat and elongated cakes. Fry them in 
plenty of ghee and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar 
till saturated. 



AKWARI. 

Beat ^ seer of ghee vigorously till it is perfectly 
white when mix with i seer of coarse flour ( atta ), i 
powa of curd and ^ tola of cardamom seeds, and knead 
the mass to a dough. Make balls of it, press them a 
little flat and fry in plenty of boiling ghee to a light 
brown colour. Keep them immersed in a very 
concentrated syrup of sugar till saturated. Then take 
them out in a dish and dry them in air. 

PERAKI. 

Fry |- powa of khowa kheer with a little ghee and 
powder it. Also fry ^ powa of raisins and pieces of 
almonds and pistachios i chhatak each with a little more 
ghee. Mix all with i tola of cardamom seeds, powdered 
cloves and cinnamon ^ tola each and a little syrup of 
sugar . 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 59 

Mix I powa of ghee with i seer of fine flour and 
:knead 10 a stiff dough with water. Make balls of it, 
prepare hollow cones of them, stuff them with the above 
spiced i<heer and close up the base. Fry them in ^ seer 
of boiling ghee and keep immersed in a very concentrated 
syrup of sugar for about half an hour. Then take them 
out and roll on dry crystalline sugar. 



SAKARPARA. 

Keep I powa of almonds moist for a couple of hours, 
then peel them, cut in pieces and make a paste of them 
with the necessary amount of water. Mix this paste, 
with I powa of cream of milk and ^ powa of ghee with 
I seer of fine flour. Beat to a stiff dough adding a little 
water if necessary. Prepare small cubes of it, fry in 
plenty of boiling ghee to a light brown colour and smear 
them with a very concentrated syrup of i powa of 
sugar. 

KHEER JOSHI, 

Mix ^ powa of fine flour -vdth ^ seer of khowa 
kheer, prepare threads of it as fine as possible rolling 
it little by little with th^ liands, adding a little water 
if necessary, and cut them in pieces of i inch in 
length. Fry them in plenty of ghee. Boil 2 seers of 
milk till it is r^fiijced to half and then drop the fried 
pieces into it. Add raisins, pasted almonds and i^ powa 



l6o INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

of sugar. Stir at intervals and take down when thick 
after mixing with cardamom seeds and 3 or 4 drops of 
essence of rose. 

KHEER with ORNAGES 

Peel half a dozen sweet and ripe oranges and further 
skin them separating the grains. Squeeze the grains 
in a bag of linen bringing out ,,the juice. Boil i seer of 
milk till it is reduced to i ^ powa when mix with the 
juice of the oranges^ some pasted almonds and |- powa of 
sugar. Take down when thick and mix with 2 drops of" 
essence of rose. 



FRUITS of KHEER. 

Mix thoroughly khowa kheer ^ seer, sugar |- powa, 
milk I powa, powdered cardamom i tola, a pinch of 
powdered aniseed, ghee i chhatak, pasted almonds and 
pistachios I chhatak each, together, heat the mass and stir 
till it is a stiff paste. Then take down and scrape together 
the paste sticking to the sides of the pan. Mix with 2 or 
3 drops of essence of rose and beat the ma«s to a verj' 
fine paste. Make balls of it, give them the colour of 
the fruits to be made and press them in its cast. Fix a 
clove in the place of the stalk. In the case of mangoes 
smear the balls also with the juice of mango-scented 
ginger. In the case of lichies, fry some entire poppy- 
seed without ghee or oil and then give them a deep red 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY l6l 

colour. Sprinkle them on the lichies of kheer giving the 
look of real fruits. The fruits may be decorated with 
their respective leaves and branches. 

ADARSHA. 

Boil a syrup of 3 powas of sugar, add a seer of besam 
of any kind of pulse and stir vigorously till it is a very 
stiff dough when take the pan down. Prepare cakes of 
the mass and fry in plenty of ghee till brown. 

TENTI. 

Boil 3 powds of ghee. Add to it besam of kalai ^ 
seer, besam of grams i powa, sugar i seer, powdered 
ginger i tola and half a pinch of camphor previously 
mixed together. Stir till the mass is a very stiff dough 
when take it off fire. Prepare balls of it and" serve 
when cool. 

GOPCHOP, 

Mix together fine flour i seer, a syrup of |^ seer of 
sugar, ghee | seer and 3 or 4 drops of essence of rose. 
Prepare balls of the mass and arrange them in a big 
metal dish. Cover it by another of the same size and 
close the join with some flour paste. Place the whole 
thing on burning coals and surround it on all sides and 
above with more burning coals. Remove the ashes when 
the coals are burnt up and serve the balls when cool. 

II 



l62 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

DILKHOSH. 

Boil 3 or 4 seers of pure milk and then make the 
heat very mild so that the milk may no longer boil. 
Fan the surface of the milk with a small hand fan when 
creams will form. Remove the creams constantly to 
the sides of the boiling pan with a thin stick till the 
formation of creams ceases. Then remove the pan off 
fire, transfer the creams on a plate and beat thoroughly 
adding requisite quantities of crystalline sugar, cardamc m 
seeds and essence of rose. Form balls of the paste and 
serve. 

GOVINDABHOG. 

Make a moderately thick paste of khowa kheer ^ seer, 
sabeda ^ seer, besam ^ powa, powders of pepper and 
cardamom ^ tola each and very little .'^affron with water, 
and beat thoroughly. Fry this paste in very fine drops 
in plenty of boiling ghee till reddish brown in the same 
way as Mihidana. Then take them out with the same 
perforated ladle and drop in a syrup of sugar. Take 
them out again when saturated and form into big balls 
like Mihidana. 

HARIRA. 

Fry ^ seer of fine flour with ^ seer of ghee till brown. 
Then add a seer of milk and when it boils add a very 
concentrated syrup of 2^ powas of sugar, a pinch of 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 63 

powdered cloves and very little saffron. Raisins, pieces 
of almonds and pistachios may be added as desired. 
Take down when very thick. Constant ttirring is 
necessary throughout the whole preparation. 



DUGDHAKUPIKA. 

Boil 2 seers of milk with i powa of sugar stirring 
constantly till it is a stiff paste. Scrape together this 
kheer from the pan and beat thoroughly. 

Make a paste of i seer of hard chhana and mix it 
thoroughly with 3 powas of fine flour, and further make 
a stiff dough of them with milk. Prepare elongated 
cakes of it stuffed with the previously prepared kheer, 
fry them in plenty of ghee and drop them in a syrup 
of sugar. Serve when saturated with syrup. 

MANTHAK. 

Mix thoroughly i chhatak of ghee with ^ seer of 
ffne flour and make a moderately stiff dough of it with 
water. Prepare a little flattened balls of it, fry them in 
plenty of ghee and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar, 
mixed with i or 2 pinches of powdered cardamoms and 
very little camphor, till saturated. 

HALUA of EGGS. 

1 1 is better prepared with the yolks of eggs only than 
with the whole liquid contents of eggs. However, mix 



164 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

sugar and ghee in equal and each being double of the 
quantity of eggs, a little powdered garam-masalla and 
very little saffron. Heat the mass stirring constantly 
till it begins to form red crystals when take it 
down and serve. 



NAWAB-BHOG. 

Make a paste of ^ seer of khowa kheer and drop it 
into a boiling syrup of i powa of sugar. Stir on mild 
heat. Add raisins, pieces of almonds and pistachios, a 
handful of broken sugar-candy and a pinch of powdered 
cardamoms when the mass is thick. Take down when 
it is stiff. Scrape the paste together, mix with 2 or 3 
drops of essence of rose and a few entire cardamom seeds, 
and form small balls of it. 



DEDO-MONDA. 

Prepare sandesh with hard chhana i seer, khowa 
kheer ^ to i powa and a syrup of i seer of sugar. When 
it is prepared mix with 4 or 5 drops of essence of rose 
and a little powdered cardamom seeds. Pieces of 
pistachios may also be added. ■ Form balls of it, throw 
them with, force on aflat plate and join two together on 
the flattened sides while they are yet warm. They will 
stick to each other when cold. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY iS^ 

NIKHUTI. 

Keep ^ seer of middlings moist with i|- powa of 
water and a little lime-water for about 1 2 hours. Then 
mix it with i seer of sabeda, |- seer of fine flour and i 
seer of hot water. Fry Bonde with this paste. Take 
them out when they are fried but yet soft^ and drop 
them in a syrup of sugar. Take them out again when 
saturated, make a paste of them, mix with a little ghee 
and make balls of it. 

MOWA of KHAI. 

Keep 2 seers of dried paddy out on a cold moist floor 
for 2 to 3 hours. Then heat a quantity of sands in a pan 
till they are very hot. Throw a handful of the paddy 
•on the hot sands and stir them. The paddy will burst 
into khai in half a minute. Remove them immediately, 
otherwise they will be burned. Fry the whole quantity 
of paddy in this way and then remove the chaffs. Khai 
are very tasteful to eat and being very light they are 
also taken by the sick. They can also be had of from 
the market. 

Boil a syrup of i seer of sugar, add I seer of fresh 
khai and stir constantly. When the khai are powdered and 
mixed up with the syrup add seeds of small cardamoms 
^ tola, powdered cinnamon ^ tola, powdered pepper i 
tola dried and powdered ginger i tola and very little 
camphor. Pasted almonds and pistachios may also be 
added. Stir till the mass is gluey when taking down 



i66 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

mix with |- powaofpure cows' ghee. Make balls when 
it is yet warm, otherwise they cannot be made into balls. 
Roll the ball on powdered sugar and serve when cold. 

BADSHAHI-BHOG. 

Take the whites of 1 5 to 20 eggs in a deep pan and 
churn the mass with a churn-staff till the pan is filled 
with white foams. Then add a syrup of 3 powas of 
sugar-candy and churn again till thoroughly mixed up. 
Heat the mass on mild heat and stir constantly. Take 
down when broken pieces of the whites of the eggs float 
on the surface, mix with a table-spoonful of rose water 
and ^ tola of musk, and keep covered till it is served. 

GAGANPANTHIA 

Mix together thoroughly |- seer of besam of gram, 
powders of pepper, white cumin and coriander i tola 
each and salt |- tola, and make a stiff dough with water. 
Form finger-like thick and long sticks, fry them in 
plenty of oil or ghee and keep immersed in a sj'rup of 
sugar. 

MADANAMRITHU 

Keep I powa of pulses of moog in water for 3 or 4 
hours and then make a paste of moistened moog. Beat 
the paste with |- powa of curd with the hands or churn 
with a staff till a drop of the mass when thrown on water 



Indian cookery and confectionery 167 

float on it. Fry Jilapi with this paste in plenty of gheeJ 
on mild heat and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar till 
saturated. 

MANIK-BHOG. 

Make a paste of i|- powas of khowa kheer and drop 
it into a boiling syrup of i^ powas of sugar. Stir 
constantly on mild heat. On boiling again add pastes of 
almonds and pistachios as desired and a drop or two of 
essence of rose. Take down when the mass is a very 
stiff paste. Scrape it together and when cool make balls 
of it stuffed with 5 or 6 raisins, 5 or 6 cardamom seeds 
and 8 or 10 drops of rose water after smearing the hands 
with ghee. Roll them on sugar and serve. 

HALUA-PAPRU 

Mix 5" seer of fine flour with ^ seer of boiled milk and 
heat. Stir constantly. After a time add a concentrated 
syrup of 2 seers of sugar. When partly thick add a seer 
or more of ghee little by little. La.st of all add a pinch of 
saffron, tlie seeds of a few cardamoms, raisins and a 
paste or pieces of pistachios as desired. Take down 
when very thick, pour in a flat dish and cut in cubes 
when cold and solid. 

BALLS of KALAI 

Keep I seer of pulses of mash-kalai under water for 
7 or 8 hours and then make a paste of them. Mix with 



l'6^ INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

the whites of 2 or 3 eggs if desired, and beat the paste 
thoroughly. Fry small balls of it in plenty of ghee and 
keep immersed in a syrup of sugar till served. 

GOKUL-PITHA. 

' Make stiff dough of ^ seer of khowa kheer and i or 
1^ powa of sabeda with a little hot milk if necessary. 
Make small balls of it, press them flat and round like 
luchi. Dip them into a thick paste of flour i powa sugar 
^ powa and milk about 3 chhataks, fry in plenty of ghee 
and keep immersed in a syrup of sugar. 

SARA-CHAKRA. 

Boil ^ seer of fried moog dal in water till saturated 
with it and then make a paste of them with the scraped 
kernels of 2 ripe cocoa-nuts. Mix this paste with khowa 
kheer 3 powas, fine flour ^ powa, sugar i powa and water 
|- seer. Heat the mass and stir till it is a stiff gluey 
paste. Then take it down, scrape together the paste and 
beat thoroughly after mixing with i tola of powdered 
cardamoms. Prepare round and long finger-like cakes of 
it, fry in plenty of ghee and drop them while hot in a 
syrup of sugar. Serve while cold after mixing with 6 or 
7 drop? of essence of rose. 

TIKAR-SAHI. 

Mix ^ powa of ghee thoroughly with ^ seer of fine 
flour and then make a stiff dough with about 3 chhataks 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 169 

■of milk. Prepare about 20 balls of it, stuff them with a 
mixture of powdered poppy seeds 3 chhataks, powdered 
pepper ^ tola, a pinch of powdered cinnamon and about 
I chhatak of milk, roll them into thin and round discs, 
fry them in plenty of ghee and keep immersed" in a syrup 
of sugar. A mixture of khowa kheer ^ powa, pastes of 
raisins, almonds and pistachios ^ chhatak each, a pinch of 
powdered cardamom seeds, i cr 2 drops of essence of 
rose and a little milk, if necessary, may be substituted 
for the previous stuffing. 

BESHMI. 

Mix I powa of ghee thoroughly with i seer of besam 
of grams and heat. Stir constantly. Add I seer of ghee 
more in 2 or 3 instalments. Last of all add i powa of 
sugar when the besam is fried red, and take down when 
it is thoroughly mixed up. Mix with 1 tola of powdered 
pepper. Powdered garam-masalla may also be added if 
■desired. Make balls while the mass is yet warm, other- 
wise it will not take the shape of balls. 

KHASA MONDA. 

Make a paste of i seer of hard chhana and drop it 
into a boiling syrup of |- seer of sugar. Stir vigorously. 
After a time add khowa kheer 2 chhatak. Take down 
when the mass is very thick and gluey. Mix with |- to i 
chhatak of pieces of pistachios. Make balls of it when 
■cold and serve. 



170 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

MURKI of CHHANA. 

Remove the whole quantity of whey from any quantity 
of chhana by very high pressure. Cut the chhana when 
very hard In very small cubes of say -5 Inch at each side 
with a sharp knife. Boll them in a syrup of sugar for 
say half an hour. Then take them out^ spread on a flat 
surface and serve when dry. 

RABRI. 

Mix half a table- spoonful of lime water with 5 seers 
of milk and boil it. Then make the heat very mild so 
that the milk may no longer boil. Fan the surface of 
the milk and remove the creams constantly as they are 
formed to the sides of the pan with a very thin stick. 
Stir the milk from time to time and continue the process 
till the milk is reduced to one seer. Then take the pan 
down. Sci ape the creams together from the sides of the 
pan and mix with the milk. Also mix powdered sugar- 
candy I powa^ powdered cardamoms i tola and 4. or 5 
drops of essence of rose with the milk. Serve when 
cold. 



JAMS AND JELLIES. 
AM-SATTA. 

Wash any number of ripe and sweet mangoes^ peel 
them and squeeze the juice from them. Strain the juice 
through a fine piece of linen and collect in several 
fiat, stone or porcelain dishes smeared with ghee, each 
containing as much of the juice as can be dried on the 
same day. Tilt the dishes so that the juice .spreads 
evenly over the whole surfaces and dry them in the sun. 
Repeat the same process every day till the layer of dried 
mango juice in each dish i;i as thick as is desired. Then 
scratch the extreme ends of each layer with the tip of a 
knife holding it against the centre of each dish, and slowly 
remove the layers intact from the dishes. Place them 
on a clean piece of linen and dry them perfectly in the 
sun. Smear them with a little ghee. Cut them in pieces 
and serve. They can be preserved for several months 
if they are kept on clean pieces of linen in an airtight 
pan which should be heated in the sun at least once a 
week. Similarly layers of dried juice of ripe jack-fruit, 
which are known as "Kanthal-Satta" may be prepared 
and preserved. 



172 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

MARMALADE of GREEN MANGOES. 

Peel some full sized green mangoes and cut them in 
big pieces. Keep them in lime water for about half 
an hour. Then wash them with fresh water and keep 
aside for a little while more after smearing them with 
salt. Then boil them in water for a few minutes and 
then drop them in a hot syrup of sugar. Apply mild 
heat. Take down when the syrup being thick sticks to 
the sides of the pieces of mangoes. If they are meant 
for immediate use the pieces need not be kept in lime 
water. All jams, jellies, pickles, etc. should be preserved 
in earthen, glass or porcelain jars. 

MARMALADE of PINE-APPLES. 

Peel thickly a few not-very-ripe pine-apples, cut in 
very big pieces and remove the eyes and the central 
stems. Equal weights of sugar and pieces of pine-apples 
are necessary. 

Cover the bottom of a pan with cassia leaves and a 
few pieces of cinnamon. Put half the sugar on them 
and on the sugar put the pieces of pine-apples in a layer. 
Above all sprinkle the rest of the sugar. Continue to 
heat the pan on mild heat. The sugar will melt and 
the pieces of pine-apples will change colour after 
some heating. Take down when the thick syrup sticks 
to the sides of the pieces. 

Alternative Method :— Cut the pine apples in small 
pieces. Fry a few cassia leaves, cloves, cardamom seeds 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 173: 

and a little powdered coriander with a little ghee. 
Then add the pieces of pine-apples and the sugar. Stir 
from time to time. Take down and preserve when the- 
syrup is very thick and sticks to the sides of the pieces, 
Whenever the juice appears to ferment heat the prepa- 
ration again and preserve afresh. 



MARMALADE of BEL FRUITS. 

Remove the shells of a few green bel fruits, cut 
into thin circular or semicircular pieces, remove the seeds 
with a pin and keep in water for an hour. Then wash 
them with plain water, boil in a syrup of sugar till soft,, 
take them out and serve when cold. If they are to be 
preserved for a long time, instead of boiling them at once, 
boil them each day in degrees ranging over 5 or 6 days. 
It is an excellent medicine for constipation as well as 
for looseness. 

MARMALADE of GINGER. 

Peel I seer of ginger and perforate them all over 
vi^ith an iron pin. Keep them immersed in lime water 
for 3 days and then wash them with plain water. Boil 
them with i chhatak of pasted leaves of Indian black 
berry ( kala jam ) in about 2 seers of water till fully 
boiled. Wash them 3 or 4 times with plain water and 
drop them in a boiling syrup of i seer of sugar. Mix 
powders of cardamoms, cinnamon and camphor i pinch 
each and 5 or 6 drops of essence of rose with the mass 



I 74 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

when the syrup is very thick. Then take down, 
serve one small piece to each when cold and preserve 
in bottles. 

MARMALADE of WHITE GOURD. 

Peel a ripe and old white gourd, cirt in big pieces, 
remove the seeds, perforate them a'l over with an iron 
pin and keep i seer of such pieces in cold water for 
.about an hour. Then smear them with i chhatak of 
sabeda and i tola of powdered alum, and boil in water. 
Then wash them with plain water and drop in a boiling 
.syrup of I seer of sugar. Mix with i tola of powdered 
cardamoms when the syrup becomes very thick. Then 
take down. 

MARMALADE of MYROBALANS. 

Boil I seer ofmyrobalans with water till quite soft 
and drop them in a boiling syrup of ] j- seer of sugar. 
Take down when the s)Tup is very thick. It is an 
•excellent medicine of dyspepsia. 

JELLY of PINE-APPLES. 

Peel a few very ripe pine-apples, cut in pieces, 
thrash them and strain the juice through a clean piece 
•of linen. Mix with i^ times its weight of sugar, or 
-make a thick syrup of the sugar and pour in the juice. 
Boil and stir till the mass is thick. '1 hen take down 
and if desired mix with a little powder of any spice. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I 75 

JELLY of GREEN MANGOES and 
OTHER FRUITS. 

Remove the stalks of a few mature yet green mangoes, 
wash and hoil them. Squeeze the boiled mangoes and 
strain the pulp through a clean piece of linen. Mix it 
with i^ times its weight of sugar or add it to a boiling 
thick syrup of the sugar. Stir constantly till the mass 
is thick when taking down mix with a little lemon-juice. 
Jellies of ripe tomatoes, ripe plums and ripe guavas can 
be prepared exactly in the same process. Never use 
iron utensils in the preparation of jellies, aluminium or 
enamelled ones are the best for this purpose. 

BARFI of VARIOUS FRUITS. 

Prepare a jelly of any of the above mentioned fruits 
and boil it till very thick when pour it on a flat enamelled 
or wooden plate, level upper surface and allow it to cool. 
Cut in cubes with a knife when sufficiently hard. 



PICKLES AND SAUCES- 
KUL-ACHAR. 

Wash 2 seer of ripe plums, rub with a cloth to soak 
the water, remove the stalks and crack each of them a 
little. Mix with ^ powa of salt and dry them in the sun 
for several days till thoroughly dried. Put the dried 
plums with pieces of ginger, powders of pepper, mustard 
and aniseed and i^ powa or |- seer of mustard oil in an 
airtight jar. Shake the jar to mix them thoroughly. 
Keep it in the sun for 3 weeks. 

With sugar : Remove the stalks from some ripe- 
plums and dry them in the sun. Boil the dried plums 
in a thick syrup of sugar till fully boiled and preserve 
them with the syrup in an airtight jar. 

Or remove the stalks from some ripe plums, crack 
them and dry them in the sun after smearing with salt. 
Then put them with some broken green chillies in a jar 
and pour in treacle to cover them. Put the lid on and 
keep the jar in the sun at intervals. 

ACHAR of TAMARIND 

Shell some ripe tamarinds, mix with salt and dry 
them thoroughly in the sun. Mix with enough mustard 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 77 

oil, powders of chillies, mustard, aniseed and any or every 
other spices except turmeric, and put them in an earthen 
pot. Put the pot in the sun at intervals of 2 or 3 days 
with the lid . open allowing the sunbeams to fall directly 
into it. 

ACHAR of BRINJALS. 

Remove the stalks of a few brinjals weighing i seer 
and make hollows within them by removing the cores 
with a knife. Stuff them with thrashed green mangoes 
i|- powa mixed with pasted ginger, powdered mustard and 
salt I chhatak each and powdered black cumin |- chhatak. 
Close the openings with the stalks with a little flour-paste 
and dry them in the sun till the natural colour of the 
brinjals fades away and the surface becomes rough. 
Then keep them immersed in oil. They will be ready 
for eating after a few weeks. 

ACHAR of GINGER. 

Peel I seer of ginger and wash them. Then cut them 
in pieces, smear with r powa of salt and ^ chhatak of 
powdered pepper and keep aside for a few hours. Then 
keep them immersed in lemon-juice for a week, keeping 
all the while in the open atmosphere. Then pick the 
pieces out and keep covered in a stone or earthen pot. 

ACHAR of ONION. 

Peel some onions and half boil them. Then smear 
them with pasted ginger, salt, powdered black cumin and 

12 



. I 78 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

- broken chillies in adequate, quantities, and keep them 
immersed in vinegar in a covered jar. 

ACHAR of SAJINA FLOWER- 

Make a thick paste of i|- powa of seedless ripe 
tamarinds with a little water and mix it with i powa of 
washed and perfectly dried sajina flowers. Also mix 
with -I" powa of salt and a paste of i powa of mustard 
and keep in an airtight jar for a day. Then mix with 
^ chhatak of powdered chillies and i powa of mustard 
oil, dry them in the sun for a whole day and keep in the 
jar. Pieces of green chillies and dried pieces of brinjals 
may be added if desired. 

ACHAR of AMLAKI. 

Make a few deep cuts on each of some ripe and fresh 
amlaki fruits and remove the seeds if you can. Boil them 
in plenty of water till soft. Then drain out the water 
and wash with fresh cold water. Drop them in a boiling 
syrup of sugar and boil for 20 or 25 minutes. Then make 
a paste of powders of chillies, pepper, aniseed, cardamom 
seeds, pasted or powdered ginger in adequate quantities 
with little mustard oil, smear the boiled fruits with it 
and preserve in an airtight jar. 

KASUNDI. 

Peel some mature yet green mangoes and cut them 
in thin long pieces throwing away the seeds if possible. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CpNFECTIONERY 1 79 

Mix I powa of salt ;with,.j i seer of such pieces and keep 
in the sun for a day or two till the' pieces are quite soft 
and some juice is gathered at the bottom. Then drain out 
the juice and mix the pieces with pasted ginger i 
chhatak, powdered chiUies |- chhatak, powdered mustard 
3 chhataks, seedless ripe tamarind i chhatak and salt i 
chhatak. Heat i powa of mustard oil in an aluminium 
■pan^ add the spiced pieces, mix thoroughly and take 
down. Preserve them when cold in an airtight stone, 
porcelain, glass or earthen jar. They may be preserved 
without oil but in that case they must be mixed with 
■double the amount of powdered mustard. 



ACHAR of MANGOES. 

Remove the stalks of a few green mangoes and cut 
them in halves. Throw away the seeds, mix i powa 
of salt with I seer of the pieces and dry them perfectly 
in the sun. Then mix them with powders of chillies 
mustard and salt i chhatak each and enough mustard oil 
to saturate them, and keep in an airtight jar. Keep the 
jar in the sun for several days. 

With sugar : Cut the mangoes in halves and dry 
them in the sun as before after smearing with salt. Then 
mix them with powders of chillies and pepper and enough 
treacle or concentrated syrup of sugar to saturate them. 
Keep them in an airtight jar and keep the jar in the sun 
for several days. 



l8o INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

AMSI or AMCHUR. 

Remove the stalks of some mature yet green mangoes- 
and cut them in four pieces without peeling them. 
Remove the seeds and smear i chhatak of pasted 
turmeric with i seer of the pieces. Wash them after a 
few hours and again mix i powa of salt with them and' 
dry them perfectly in the sun for several days. They 
can be preserved for about a year. Chatni is prepared of 
these like that of mangoes after fully boiling them and 
without adding any more salt. 

ACHAR of MANGOES (French Preparation). 

Peel a few green mangoes and cut them in such a. 
way that the seeds are easily removed keeping the 
mangoes entire. Smear them with salt and dry them in 
the sun for 2 or 3 days. Then fill up their interiors witL 
a mixture of powders of aniseed, chillies, cloves and 
cinnamon, a paste of ginger and cardamom seeds. Bind. 
them with pieces of thread and keep immersed in vinegar 
with a little mustard oil at the top in an airtight glass 
jar. 

ACHAR of LEMON. 

Rub some lemons ( pati or goura pi-eferable ) against a. 
piece of blanket till all the minute oily particles on thfr 
skin of the lemons are completely removed. It is a 
tedious job which nevertheless must be done. Then make 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY l8l 

a few cuts on each, smear i powa of salt on i seer of the 
lemons and keep in an airtight glass jar. Keep the jar 
in the open atmosphere. Achar will be ready after about 
-a month and can be preserved for about a year. 



CHATNI of ALUBOKHARA. 

Wash alubokharas, raisins and dates i powa each and 
keep the raisins and alubokharas under water for about a 
•quarter of an hour in an enamelled pot. Then heat ^ 
powa of oil and fry a generous pinch of panch-foron and 
some broken chillies in the oil and then fry a little the 
alubokharas, raisins and dates in it. Add 3 powas of 
water and when it boils add 1 powa of sugar, a generous 
pinch of salt and a little pasted turmeric. Takedown 
■when the desired thickness of the soup is reached. 



CHATNI of PINE-APPLE. 

Peel thickly a ripe pine-apple, remove the eyes, cut 
in thin and small pieces and keep ^ seer of the pieces in 
lime water for a few minutes. Wash with fresh water 
and boil them with |- powa of raisins with a little water. 
On softening remove the pan off fire. Heat a little ghee- 
in another pan and fry a few panch-forons, mustard and 
■cardamom seeds in it. Then add the mass, sugar i powa, 
a pinch of salt and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Boil 
for some time and take down when the juice is thick. 



1 82 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

CHATNI of PUDINA LEAVES. 

Make a paste of a handful of pudina leaves with 2 or 
3 green chillies. Mix with tamarind pulp, salt and sugar 
adequate quantities, and serve. 

CHATNI of POTATOES. 

Mix I chhatak of seedless ripe tamarind thoroughly 
with I powa of water and throw away the refuse. Peel' 
and cut some potatoes in round and thin slices. Fry 2 or ■ 
3 broken chillies, a pinch of mustards and another of 
panch-foron in i chhatak of mustard oil and then fry i 
powa of the slices of potatoes in it. When the slices are 
half browned add the tamarind water and a generous 
pinch of salt. Take down when the soup is thick after 
mixing with a little sugar. 

CHATNI of PAPAW. 

Mix I chhatak of seedless ripe tamarind thoroughljr 
with ly powa of water and throw away the refuse. Peel 
a big and green papaw and cut in thin and long slices 
after removing the seeds. Boil i powa of the slices in 
water and drain out the water when thej' are fully boiled. 
Fry a few mustard, panch-forons and broken chillies in 
^ chhatak of oil. Then add the boiled pieces of papaw, 
I chhatak of cleansed raisins, the tamarind water and a 
generous pinth of salt. Mix with a table-spoonful of the 
juice of mango-scented ginger and a little sugar when.' 
the soup is thick, and take down. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 183 

CHATNI of PUMPKIN. 

Mix ^ powa of seedless ripe tamarind with |- seer of 
water and throw away .the refuse. Peel a tender 
pumpkin and cut in very small thin and long pieces. Fry 
a few mustard, broken chillies and panch-forons in 5 
chhatak of oil and pour in the tamarind solution. Add 
^ seer of the pieces of pumpkin, ^ powa of cleansed 
raisins and a generous pinch of salt. A little later add |- 
powa of sugar and take down when the soup is thick. 
Similarly chatni of gourds and other non-sour vegetables 
can be prepared. 

CHATNI of GREEN MANGOES. 

Remove the stems of a few mature yet green 
mangoes and cut them in two or four pieces without 
peeling them. Throw away the seeds. Fry some 
mustards, panch-forons and broken chillies in i chhatak 
of oil and then add i|- seer of water. When it boils 
add I seer of the pieces of mangoes, i powa of cleansed 
raisins and |- powa of salt. Add i|- powa of sugar 
when the pieces are well boiled and take down when 
the soup is thick. 

MANGO SOUP. 

Small and tender mangoes which are not yet very 
sour are required for this purpose. Peel them and cut 
in small thin pieces throwing away the seeds. Fry a 



184 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

small pinch of mustards and panch-forons with a little 
oil and pour in 2^ powas of water. Add a paste of 
^ chhatak of mustard, f powa of the pieces of mangoes 
and a generous pinch of salt, Tal<e down when the 
pieces are boiled. Keep the soup very thin. The soup 
has a very pleasant taste. 

HALUA of GREEN PAPAWS. 

Peel one or two big green papaws and cut in pieces 
throwing away the seeds. Boil ^ seer of the pieces in 
water and when fully boiled drain out the water. Make 
a paste of the boiled pieces as far as practicable. Fry 
a few aniseeds and cardamom seeds in about ^ powa of 
ghee and then add the paste, |- powa or i chhatak of 
cleansed raisins and salt as required. A little later add 
3 chhataks of sugar and the juice of a lemon. Take 
down when the mass is like a stiff dough. All chatni 
preparations, mango soup and this one are meant for 
immediate consumption. 

HALUA of GREEN MANGOES. 

Peel a few mature yet green mangoes, take out the 
edible portions and throw away the stones. Thrash 
them thoroughly with a stone and keep in water for 
about half an hour. Then mix them thoroughly and 
drain out the water. Wash them again with fresh 
water. Now boil them with a little water. Add 
deaiised raisins and salt as required. When they are 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1 85 

Iboiled add sugar equal to half the quantity of mangoes. 
Take down when the mass is like a stiff dough. Serve 
-after a day. It can be kept only for a few days. 

ACHAR of ARUM. 

Peel an arum and cut in big pieces. Boil i seer of 
the pieces with i seer of green tamarind leaves or ^ seer 
of tamarinds till soft. Then wash them with fresh 
water, smear with i chhatak of salt and a paste of ^ powa 
of mustards, and dry them in the sun for 2 or 3 days. 
Then keep them immersed in plenty of mustard oil. 
At least a week must elapse before it is taken. AIL 
schars can be preserved for several months. 



COLD DRINKS. 

SARBAT of GREEN MANGOES. 

Burn or boil 4 or 5 big green mangoes till they are~ 
sbft. Then peel them and strain the pulp through a 
clean piece of linen. Mix it with i seer of water, 
I powa of sugar, a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of rose 
water and fragments of ice as required. 

SARBAT of WATER MELON. 

Place a big very ripe water-melon on an enamelled', 
pot and cut it in two with a knife. Then bring out the 
red pulp of the fruit with its juice and squeeze the pulp- 
with the hands. Remove all the seeds and then mix 
it with I or l|- powa of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of 
rose water, half a table-spoonful of lemon-juice and. 
fragments of ice as required. 

SARBAT of BEL FRUIT. 

Break a big very ripe bel fruit and bring out the- 
whole of the pulp. Squeeze it with a little water, strain 
out the pulp with a clean piece of linen and throw away 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 1^7 

the seeds and other refuses. Mix the pulp with curd' 
and sugar ^ powa each, a pinch of salt, half a table- 
spoonful of rose water, a little lemon juice or tamarind 
pulp, fragments of ice and water as required. 

SARBAT of CHHANA. 

Make a very fine paste of i^ powa of fresh chhana. 
Dissolve ^ seer of sugar in i seer of water and strain it 
through a clean piece of linen. Now mix the pasted 
chhana thoroughly with the sugar solution and churn 
with the hands till nearly all the particles of chhana 
float. Then mix with a little lemon-juice, i or 2 table- 
spoonfuls of rose water and fragments of ice as 
required. 

SARBAT of LEMON-JUICE. 

Thoroughly mix together ^ powa of lemon-juice,. 
^ seer of sugar, i seer of water, a generous pinch of 
salt and fragments of ice as required. Use pots and 
glasses of porcelain, glass or enamel. 

SARBAT of MILK. 

Peel pistachios and almonds ^ powa each after 
keeping them moistened in water for a few hours, cut 
them is pieces and make a paste of them. Then mix 
the paste with fresh unboiled milk i seer, water i powa, 
I or 2 table-spoonfuls of rose water, sugar ^- seer ani 
fragments of ice as required. 



l88 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

SARBAT of BLACKBERRIES. 

Make a paste of the soft pulp of i seer of very ripe 
blackberries and strain it through a clean piece of linen 
throwing away the seeds. Then mix it with i seer of 
water, a little salt, i or i^ powa of sugar and fragments 
•of ice as required. 

SARBAT of FALSA. 

Falsa is a very small fruit and is black when ripe. 
Squeeze -I seer of these very ripe fruits with the hands, 
mix with i powa of water and strain through a clean 
piece of linen. Then boil fully 3 or 4 green legumes of 
tamarind and as before squeeze with the hands, mix with 
I powa of water and strain out the juice. Now mix the 
two together with |- seer of water, i|- powa of sugar, a 
pinch of salt, 3 or 4 tea-spoonfuls of rose water and 
fragments of ice as required. 

SARBAT LURKi. 

Beat I seer of curd thoroughly with the hands or 
churn with a churn-staff, and strain through a clean piece 
-of linen. Then mix it with i seer of water, i^ powa of 
orange-juice, | seer of sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of rose water 
-and fragments of ice as required. 



SVRUPS 
LEMON-SYRUP. 

These syrups are used in preparing cold drinks very- 
easily. Take some fragments of ice in a rather big-sized 
glass, add a table-spoonful of any of the syrups, fill the 
glass with water and it is an excellent cold drink. It 
tastes better if a little diluted curd is added. 

Boil I chhatak of lemon skin in 9 chhataks of lemon 
juice on mild heat and throw them away when they are 
fully boiled. Now add i seer of sugar. Boil a few 
minutes more after the sugar is dissolved and take down 
when a little gluey. Strain the syrup through a fine 
strainer and bottle it. 

ORANGE-SYRUP. 

Prepare any quantity of concentrated syrup of sugar 
and mix |- powa of tincture orange with every seer of the= 
syrup. 

ROSE-SYRUP. 

Boil I chhatak of rose petals in 2^ powas of water. 
Throw away the petals when they are fully boiled and 
add I seer of sugar. Take down when the syrup is- 
prepared. 



GL.OSSARV 

-A char — sauce. 

Ada — ginger. 

Akhni water — the juice left after boiling meat ot 

spices or both in water. 
Alubokhara — a sort of prune, brought chiefly from 

Bokhara. 
Am — mango. 

Am-ada — mango-scented ginger. 
Amlaki — myrobalan. 
Amra — hog plum. 
Amrita-mun — a sort of arum. 
Am-satta — inspissated mango juice. 
Anaras — pine-apple. 
Arahar — a kind of pulse. 
Atap rice — rice husked without boiling. 
Atta — coarse flour. 

Bajra — a kind of crops resembling millet. 
Bara — Cake ( of any shape and size ). 
Barabati ~i 

> a sort of kidney-bean 
Barabatee ) 

Barfi — rectangular or parallelogram shaped pieces. 
Bel— wood-apple, bael, a kind of fruit with a harc^ 
crust and sweet when ripe. 



INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY I91 

Besam — meal of any kind of unfried pulse. 
Bhaja -\ 

> fries. 
Bhaji 3 

Bhat — boiled rice. 
Bhetki — a kind of big fish. 
Bhura — a kind of crop. 

Bori — dried cakes of paste of any kind of pulse. 
Chalta — an acid fruit. 
Champa note sak — a kind of pot herb. 
■ 'Ghana— gram. 
Chatni — pickles. 
Cheena — a kind of crop. 

Chhana— solid curd left after removal of whey. 
Chhatoo — meal of any kind of fried pulse. 
Chhola — grams. 
Chichinga — snake-gourd. 
Chingri — shrimp, prawn. 
Chini — sugar. 

Chinra ^ 

> flattened rice. 
Chinre j 

Chitol — a kind of big fish. 
Climbing fish— a kind of fish, the biggest of which 

weigh 7 or 8 to the seer, known as Koi fish in 

Bengal, 
Dadkhani rice — a fine variety of rice. 
Dal— pulse, cooked or uncooked, 
Dhenki — an indigenous pedal for husking rice. 
Dugdha — milk. 
Enchor— green jack-fruit. 



192 INDIAN COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY 

Falsa— a kind of very small fruit. 

Fulkapi — cauli-flower. 

Galda chingri — lobsters. 

Garam-masalla — a mixture of cinnamon^ cloves anc£ 

small cardamoms. 
Ghee — clarified butter. 
Golapi — rose scented. 
Goura — a kind of lemon. 
Gur — molasses. 
Hard chhana — chhana from which all the whey has. 

been drained off by high pressure. 
Hilsa fish — a kind of fish rich in oil like cod fish,, 

big ones weighing about i|- seers. 
Hing — asafoetida. 
Jhinga — a kind of kitchen fruit. 
Kabab — roast. 
Kachu — a sort of arum. 
Kachu sak — the tender leaf or its stem of the kachu 

plant. 
Kagji — a kind of lemon with strong smell. 
Kala-jam — black-berry. 
Kalai — a kind of pulse. 
Kancha moog dal— pulses husked from unfrieA 

moog seeds. 
Kancha til — raw entire sesames. 
Kanthal — ripe jack-fruit. 
Karamcha — a kind of small acid fruit. 
Karola— a longish fruit of very uneven surface and 

of a bitter taste. 
Kasir chini— a reddish powder-like sugar. 



-,^...., ^v^^Jl^.liKY AND CONFECTIONERY 193 

Katla — a kind of big fish, salmon. 

Khai — parched or fried paddy. 

Khechuri — a preparation of rice and pulse. 

Kheer — inspissated milk. 

Khejuri gur — molasses prepared from juice of date 
palm. 

Khesari — a species of pulse. 

Khowa kheer — kheer inspissated to practically 

dryness. 
Kumra— pumpkin-gourd, or in short, gourd. 
Kul — plum. 
Lau — pumpkin, it is a fruit of the gourd family, also 

known as long or bottle gourd. 

Maguira fish — a kind of sheat fish, 
Mun "^ 

> edible arum. 
Mun-kachu ) 

Masalla— spices. 

Mash-kalai — a kind of pulse with black skin of the 

kidney-bean variety. 
Masur-dal — lentil, a kind of pulse. 
Mete — liver. 
Mocha — plantain flower. 
Moog-dal— a kind of pulse having two varieties, one 

with black skin and the other with golden skin, 

the latter being better than the former ; moog 

is the most tasteful of all pulses. 
Mukhi kachu — the bulbous root of the ka'chu. 
Mula — raddish. 
Nalen gur — the finest variety of khejuri gur, to be had 

in the market in both solid and liquid state. 

13 



194 INDIAN COOKERY A 



LyLJ K^\JL-^i.-. 



Narikel — cocoa-nut. 

Neem leaves — leaves of neem, a kind of big tree 
bitter in taste, the red tender leaves only are used 
in cooking, available in the month of March. 

01 -^ 

> a kind of esculent arum. 
Ol-kachu 3 

Palang sak — a kind of pot-herb, also called Indian 

beet, it is the best of all pot-herbs. 
Palta — the patol plant, bitter in taste. 
Panch-foron — a combination of mustard, cumin, 

fenugreek, black cumin and aniseed — the most 

common one for seasoning curries. 
Panifal — water-chestnut. 
Papaw — a kind of big sized fruit, red and sweet when 

ripe, the juice of the green ones or of the tree 

renders tough meat tender. 
Pati — a kind of lemon. 
Patol — a small species of cucumber extensively used as 

kitchen vegetable. 
Peshwari rice — a fine variety of rice. 
Pitha — a sort of cake. 
Polao — rice cooked with ghee and spices. 
Posta — poppy-seed. 
Pudina leaves — leaves of mint plant. 

Rohit 

a kind of delicious big fish, salmon. 



} 



Rui 

Sabeda-^meal of rice, rice-flour. 

Sago— a kind of starch produced from the stem of 



., V.WWIV11KV AND CONFECTIONERY I95 

several palms of the East Indies, forming light, 

wholesome nutritious food. 

-Sajina flower — flower of the Morunga tree. 

Sajina khara — the stick-like fruit of the Morunga tree. 

Sak — any kind of pot-herb. 

Satta — inspissated juice of anything. 
Shoal ^ 

> a kind of fish, black in colour, 
Shol J 

Siddha rice — rice husked after drying paddy which is 

boiled once. 
Singi fish — a kind of sheat fish. 
Sona moog dal — that kind of pulses of moog which 

has golden-coloured skin. 
Suji — middlings. 

Sukta — a sort of vegetable curry, bitter to taste. 
Tal — the fruit of the fan-palm or palmyra tree. 
Thor — the spathe of a plantain tree which 

forms when it blooms ; the stem of the banana 

flower which remains inside the trunk. 
Til — sesames. 
'Uch-chhe — a small sort of edible bitter gourd with a 

rough surface, a smaller variety of karola. 



\ 



