




l>lltn IW 



Bf^Elizatietli © 



ALBERT R.. MANN LIBRAHY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^^^'. ~ :^ - - 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco. 1912. 






'3ji924_090_14S-_Q29 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924090143029 



^s 



<"'' "- ■'"■' 



I 



3^^^^^g> 



^^ ^"^ 



'■■■^>""'r^ / 



ar 



SU'KDAY 
DINNERS 





.i.^SWii3-.4*ta- ^— 







Arranged on a unique plan, combining helpful suggestions 

for appetizing, well-balanced menus, with all the newest 

ideas and latest diseoveries in the preparation of tasty, 

wholesome cookery 





Wrillen and Compiled by 

MRS. ELIZABETH O. HILLER 

Founder and Principal of the Chicago Domestic 

Science School, and a noted writer and 

lecturer on culinary subjects 



Published by 

THEN. K. FAIR BANK COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK ST. LOUIS 

NEW ORLEANS MONTREAL 




tkjuvritihted 1913, by The M. £. Fairbauk Company 



And the passage of years shall not dim in 
the least 

The glory and joy of our Sabbath-day feast. 

— Eugene Field 



PRICE, $1.00 



INTRODUCTION 



O the modern wide-awake, twentieth-century woman effi- 
ciency in household matters is quite as much a problem 
1 as efficiency in business is to the captains of industry. 

How to make pure food, better food and to economize on the cost 
of same is just now taxing the attention and ingenuity of domestic 
science teachers and food experts generally. The average housewife 
is intensely interested in the result of these findings, and must keep 
in touch with them to keep up with the times and run her home in 
an intelligent and economical as well as healthful routine. 

The eternal feminine question is, "What shall we have for dinner 
to-day? " It is not always the easiest thing in the world to think of 
a seasonable menu, nor to determine just the right combination that 
will furnish a meal appetizing and well-balanced in food values. 
Furthermore, both the expense and the afnount of work entailed in 
preparation must be considered. 

This Cook Book is especially designed to meet just that pressing 
daily need of the housewife. It presents for her guidance a menu for 
every Simday dinner in the year; It suggests dishes which are season- 
able as well as practical; it tells in a simple, intelligent manner just 
how these dishes can be made in the most wholesome and econom- 
ical form; and the recipes have all been especially made for this book 
and tested by that eminent expert, Mrs. Elizabeth O. Hiller. 

The title of "52 Sunday Diimers" has been given the book be- 
cause Simday dinners as a rule are a little more elaborate than the 
other dinners of the week, but from these menus may be gleaned 
helpful hints for daily use. 

While climatic conditions differ somewhat in various sections of 
the country, we have tried to approximate the general average, so 



that the suggestions might be as valuable to the housewife in New 
England as to the housewife in the "West or South, or vice versa. 

Simplicity, economy and wholesomeness have been given pre- 
ferred attention in the preparation of these recipes, many of which 
are here presented for the first time. 

In the interest of health and economy a number of the recipes 
suggest the use of Cottolene— a frying and shortening medium of 
unquestioned purity — ^in place of butter or lard. Cottolene is a 
vegetable shortening, pure in source and manufactured amid cleanly 
favorable surroundings. It is no new, untried experiment, having 
been used by domestic science experts and thousands of housewives 
for nearly twenty years; to them Cottolene for shortening and frying 
is "egual to butter at half the price, better and more healthful than 
lard — and more economical than either." We, therefore, offer no 
apologies for the small proportion of recipes specifying the use of 
Cottolene, and suggest that a trial will convince any housewife that 
Cottolene makes better food than either butter or lard, and is prefer- 
able from the standpoints of efficiency, economy and healthfulness. 

We commend this book to your critical inspection and test, believ- 
ing you will find it convenient, helpful, unique and pointing the way 
to better and more economical living. 

THE N. K. FAIRBANK COMPANY. 



4 > 

$2 Sunday Dinners s 

For All Shortening and Frying Use COTTOLENE 



HEARS ago nothing but butter or lard were used for shorten- 
ing and frying; to-day the visible supply of these two prod- 
ucts is insufficient to supply the demand, taking into con- 
I sideration the amount of butter required for table use. 
Furthermore, as the demand increased it outgrew the supply of 
butter and lard, with the result that prices were materially advanced; 
and, incidentally, the quality has been lowered. Naturally, under 
such conditions scores of substitutes have been offered as shortening 
and frying mediums-^-s6me meritorious, but mostly inferior. 

Cottolene is not offered the housewife as a cheap imitation of 
either butter or lard, but as a vegetable product which is superior 
to either for cooking purposes. Because it happens to be about half 
the price of butter, or less, is but an additional reason, from a purely 
economical standpoint, for its use. The main argument for the use 
of Cottolene is the purity of its ingredients and the wholesomeness of 
the food prepared with it. 

There isn't an ounce of hog fat in Cottolene, and from cotton- 
field to kitchen human hands never touch the product. It is pure and 
absolutely free from taint or contamination from source to consumer. 
Packed in our patent, air-tight tin pails, Cottolene reaches you as 
fresh as the day it was made. Lard and Ijutter are sold in bulk, and 
do not have this protection. 

Cottolene is always uniform in quality, and because of its freedom 
from moisture it goes one-third farther than butter or lard, both of 
which contain about 20% of water. It is much more economical 
than lard; about 50% more so than butter. 

Cottolene contains no salt, and is richer in shortening properities 
than either butter or lard. Two-thirds of a pound of Cottolene will 
give better results than a pound of either butter or lard. 

Because Cottolene is made from sweet and pure oils, refined by 
our own special process, it makes food more digestible. Its use in- 
sures light, flaky pie-crust; it makes deliciously crisp, tender dough- 
nuts; for cake-making it creams up beautifully and gives results equal 
to the best cooking butter; muffins, fritters, shortcake and all other 
pastry are best when made with Cottolene; it makes food light and 
rich, but never greasy. Cottolene heats to a higher temperature than 
butter or lard, and cooks so quickly the fat has no chance to soak in. 

You can fry fish in Cottolene and use the remaining fat for fry- 
ing potatoes or other food. The odor of fish will not be imparted to 
the other food fried in the fat. Cottolene is just as pure and healthful 
as olive oil, and is unqualifiedly recommended by leading physicians, 
domestic science authorities and. culinary experts as wholesome, 
digestible and economical. The use of Cottolene in your frying and 
shortening will both save you money and give you better results. 



52 Sunday Dinners 



HOW TO USE COTTOLENE 



The General Care of Cottolene 

Exercise the same care and judgment with Cottolene as you 
would with butter, lard or olive oil; keep it in a moderately cool place 
when not in use, just as you would butter — ^so that its best qualities 
may be preserved. 

Moreover, just because you occasionally buy strong butter or 
rancid lard which yoiir grocer has kept in too warm a place, you do 
not denounce all butter or lard and give up their use; neither would 
it be fair to condemn Cottolene simply because your grocer may 
not have kept it properly. No fat will keep sweet indefinitely without 
proper care. 

The Use of Cottolene for Shortening 

Of course, the recipes in this book indicate the exact amount of 
Cottolene to be used. In your other recipes, however, a general, 
and important, rule for the use of Cottolene is: 

Use one-third less Cottolene than the amount of butter 
or lard given in your recipe. 

For cake-baking, cream the Cottolene as you would butter, 
adding a little salt ; Cottolene contains no salt. For other pastry handle 
exactly the same as directed for either butter or lard, using one- 
tblrd less. 

The Use of Cottolene in Frying 

In satdSihg, browning or "shallow frying" (as it is sometimes 
called) use only enough Cottolene to grease the pan. The Cottolene 
should be put into the pan while cold and, after the bottom of the pan 
is once covered with the melted Cottolene, more can be added as 
desired. Add more fat when you turn the food. 

Cottolene can be heated to a much higher temperature without 
burmng than either butter or lard, but — ^unless allowed to heat gradu- 



52 Sunday Dinners 



ally — ^the Cottolene may burn and throw out an odor, just as would 
any other cooking-fat. 

For deep frying, have Cottolene at least deep enough to cover, 
or float, the article lt)eing fried, heating slowly. , For uncooked 
mixtures, such as doughnuts, fritters, etc., test with one-inch cubes 
of stale bread. The cubes of bread should brown a golden brown in 
one minute; or test with a bit of dough, which should rise at once 
to the top with some sputtering. Make this test always, — ^never 
trust your eye. The fat should be kept at an even temperature. 
For cooked mixtures, such as croquettes, fish balls, etc., the cube of 
bread should brown a golden brown in 40 seconds. 

Uncooked fish and meat are better when covered with bread 
crumbs, to keep the crisp crust desired in frying food (see note on 
Egging and Crumbing under Culinary Hints, Page 12). The fat 
should be hot at first, that it may not penetrate; then reduce the 
heat, that the food may cook till done, without burning. 

Crumbed food is usually arranged in a croquette basket before 
placing it in the hot fat. This prevents the food from moving 
about, which sometimes causes the crust to loosen from the food, 
allowing it to absorb the fat. 

Never let the fat heat to smoking point, for then it is burning hot, 
and the food will burn on the outside while the inside remains raw 
and uncooked. Cook only three or four pieces at once, for more will 
chill the fat and prevent perfect frying. 

After the food has been cooked by this frying method it should 
be carefully removed at once from the fat and drained on brown paper. 

Care of Cottolene After Frying 

After the frying is done, the fat should be allowed to stand in a 
cool place to permit any sediment to settle. When cool, pour the 
fat carefully through a double fold of cheesecloth, or through a 
fine strainer. It is then ready for use. 

Cottolene does not retain the taste or odor from any article 
whatever that may be fried in it, and it may be used over and 
over again. You may from time to time, add fresh Cottolene to it 
as your quantity diminishes, but the frying qualities of the Cotto- 
lene are not pflfected by the shrinkage of the fat. 



$2 Sunday Dinners 



What Noted Cooking Experts Tliink 
ot Cottolene. 



D 



HE high regard in which Cottolene is held by all those who 
have made a careful study of food preparation and food 
values is conclusively shown by the following testimonials 
received from famous authorities on Domestic Science : 

Mrs. Sarah Tyson Rorer 

Principal Philadelphia Cooking School and Culinary Editor "The Ladies' 
Home Journal." 

" / tise Cottolene in every and all the ways that one would use lard, also in the preparaium 
of sweet cakes. I consider it an important frying medium and a much more healthful prod- 
uct than lard." 



Marion Harland 

Author of the famous "Marion Hariand Cook Book." 

"Many years ago I discontinued the use of lard in my kitchen and substituted for it — 
as an experiment — Cottolene, then comparatively a new product. Since my first trial of 
it I can truly say that it has given complete satisfaction, whether it is used alone, as ' shorten- 
ing,' or in combination with butter in pastry, biscuit, etc., or in frying. I honestly believe 
it to be the very best thing of its kind ever offered to the American housekeeper." 



Mrs. Janet M. Hill 

Editor "Boston Cooking School Magazine." 

"For several years I have used Cottolene in my own kitchen and find it very satisfactory. 
I am glad to commend it." 

Miss Jennie Underwood 

Superintendent The New York Cooking School. 

" Wt have used Cottolene for some time in our dasses here and are more than pleased 
with the results, all agreeing that it is a very valuable article. As a shortening agent in 
pastry, biscuit, etc., it has proved all that you claim for it, and as a frying agent it is entirely 
satisfactory." 

Miss Mary Arline Zurhorst 

Principal National School Domestic Arts and Science, Washington, D. C. 
"Not only have we found Cottolene invaluable as a frying agent, no matter how delicate 
the composition of the article to be cooked, but also as a substitute for the shortening in pas- 
tries arid sweets it has no equal." 

These are but a few. Other well known authorities who have 
tested Cottolene and recommend its use are: 

Mrs. F. A. Benson Mrs. Emma P. Ewing 

and Mrs. Christine Terhune Herrick 



52 Sunday Dinners 



Eminent Physicians Endorse the 
Wholesomeness of Cottolene 



^vg INE-TENTHS of all human ailments are due primarily to 
1^1 indigestion or are aggravated because of it. The chief 
I^J caiise of indigestion is food prepared with lard. The fol- 

' lowing are but brief extracts from letters received, showing 

the high esteem in which Cottolene is regarded as a cooking medium 
by physicians ranking among the highest in the profession. 

_ J, Hobart Egbert, A. M., M. D., Ph. D. 

From an article in the "Medical Summary." entitled, "Available Pacts for Consump- 
tives and Others with Wasting Diseases." 

"Ill cooking food, we vmuld recommend the preparation known aa 'Cottolene,' a whole- 
some combination of fresh beef suet and purest cottonseed oil. This preparation is both 
economical and convenient, free from aduUeration and impurities, and dietetic experiments 
conclusively show that incorporated in food it yields to the body available nourishment." 



R. Ogden Doremus, M. D., LL. D. 

Professor of Chemistry, Toxicology and Medical Jurisprudence, Bellevue Hospital 
Medical College, New York. 

" As a substitute for lard, which is its purpose, Cottolene possesses all the desirable 
qvulities of lard vnthout having the objectionable features inherent in all products obtained 
from swine." 



Dr. James Page Emery 

From an ?irticle in the "American Housekeeper" entitled "The Most Healthful of All 

Cooking Fats." 

"Cottolene, being essentially a vegetable product, forms the most healthful and nutritious 
cooking medium known to the food experts and medical profession." 



Wm. Jago, F. I. C, F. C. S. 

That eminent chemist, William Jago, than whom there is no higher authority on cook- 
ing fats, reports as follows from Brighton, England: 

"I find Cottolene to consist practically of 100 per cent pure fat, the following being the 
actual results obtained by analysis: Percentage of Pure Fat, 99.982. I found the 'short- 
ening ' efect of 12 ozs. of Cottolene practically equal to that of 1 lb. best butter. For hygienic 
reasons, Cottolene muy be used vnth safety as a perfectly harmless and innocuous substitute 
for other fats employed for dietetic purposes." 



Other eminent physicians who have endorsed and recoilimended Cottolene 
are: Henry Seffmann, M. D., Professor of Chemistry, Woman's Medical College 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia; Prof. Jesse P. Battershall, Ph. S., F. C. S., 
Chemist U. S. Laboratory, New York; Dr. Allen McLane Hamilton, New 
York, N. Y.; Dr. Edw. Smith, Analyst New York State Board of Health. 



10 ^2 Sunday Dinners 

HOW TO MEASURE 

NE cup, or one tablespoon, or one teaspoon, means a full 
measure — all it will hold of liquid, and even with the rim, 
or edge, of dry material. All measurements in this book are 

' level unless otherwise stated, and the quantities indicated are 

designed for a family of six persons. 

Stir up all packed materials, like mustard in its box, and sift 
flour before measuring. Fill cup without shaking down, and dip 
spoon in material, taking up a heaped measure, then with a knife 
scrape off toward the tip till you have level measure. Pack butter 
or Cottolene in cup so there will be no air spaces. A scant cup 
means one-eighth less and a heaped cup about one-eighth more 
than a level cup. 

Divide a level spoon lengthwise for a half measure, and a half 
spoon crosswise for quarters or eighths. A pinch means about 
one-eighth, so does a saltspoon; less means a dash or a few grains. 

A rounded tablespoon means filled above the rim as much as the 
spoon hollow below, and equals two of level measure. It also equals 
one ounce in weight, and two rounded tablespoons if put together 
would heap a tablespoon about as high as would an egg, giving us 
the old-time measure of "butter size of an egg," or two ounces, or 
one-fourth the cup. 

Except in delicate cake, or where it is creamed with sugar, and 
in pastry — where it should be chilled to make a flaky crust, Cot- 
tolene or butter may be most quickly and economically measur,ed 
after it is melted. Keep a small supply in a granite cup, and when 
needed, stand the cup in hot water, and when melted, pour the 
amount desired into the spoon or cup. For all kinds of breakfast 
cakes, it is especially helpful to measure it in this way. 

Soda, baking powder, spices, etc., are generally measured with 
a teaspoon, level measure, for this gives the proportional amount 
needed for the cup measure of other materials. 



STANDARD TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

(AH measurements are made level) 

Liquids 

60 drops =1 teaspoon 2 gilla =1 cup 

3 teaspoons =1 tabWapoon 2 oups = 1 pint 

1 tablespoon = ^ ounce 2 cups milk or water. . . = 1 pound 

4 tablespoons = H cup or H gill 

Solids 

2 tablespoons flour =1 ounce 2H cups powdered sugar =1 pound' 

4 cups flour =1 pound or 2 solid cups chopped meat =1 pound 

, , , 1 quart 2 tablespoons butter (solid and 

2 solid level cups of butter or level) = 1 ounce 

Cottolene =1 pound 4 tablespoons butter (solid and 

}i solid level cup butter = M pound level) = JjJ cup 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar = 1 ounce 4 tablespoons coffee = 1 ounce 

2 oups granulated sugar =1 pound 9 large eggs = X poimd 



52 Sunday Dinners 



11 



Time Tables for Cooking 



Baking Bread, Cakes and 
Puddings 

Loaf bread 40 to 60 m. 

Rolls, Biscuit 10 to 20 m. 

Graham gems 30 m. 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 m. 

Sponge-cake 45 to 60 m. 

Plain cake 30 to 40 m. 

Fruit cake 2 to 3 hrs. 

Cookies 10 to 15 m. 

Bread pudding 1 hr. 

Rice and Tapioca 1 hi. 

Indian pudding 2 to 3 hrs. 

Plum pudding 2 to 3 hrs. 

Custards 15 to 20 m. 

Steamed brown-bread 3 hrs. 

Steamed puddings 1 to 3 hrs. 

Pie-crust about 30 m. 

Potatoes 30 to 45 m. 

Baked beans 6 to 8 hrs. 

Braised meat 3 to 4 hrs. 

Scalloped dishes 15 to 20 m. 

Baking Meats 

Beef, sirloin, rare, per lb 8 to 10 m. 

Beef, sirloin, well done, per lb . 12 to 15 m. 
Beef, rolled rib or rump, per 

lb , . 12 to 15 m. 

Beef, long or short fillet 20 to 30 m. 

Mutton, rare, per lb 10 m. 

Mutton, well done, per lb 15 m. 

Lamb, well done, per lb 15 m. 

Veal, well done, per lb 20 m. 

Pork, well done, per lb 30 m. 

Turkey, 10 lbs. wt 3 hrs. 

Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. wt 1 to Iji hrs. 

Goose, 8 lbs airs. 

Tame duck 40 to 60 m. 

Game diick 30 to 40 m. 

Grouse, Pigeons 30 m. 

SmaU birds 15 to 20 m. 

Venison, per lb 15 m. 

Pish, 6 to 8 lbs.; long, thin fish Ihr. 

Ksh, 4 to 6 lbs.; thick Halibut 1 hr 

Fish, smaU , 20 to 30 m. 

Freezing 

Ice Cream SO m. 



Boiling 

Coffee 3 to 5 m. 

Tea, steep without boiling ... 5 m. 

Commeal 3 hrs. 

Hominy, fine 1 hr. 

Oatmeal, rolled 30 m. 

Oatmeal coarse, steamed .... 3 hrs. 

Rice, steamed 45 to 60 m. 

Rice, boiled 15 to 20 m. 

Wheat Granules 20 to 30 m. 

Eggs, soft boiled 3 to 6 m. 

Eggs, hard boiled 15 to 20 m. 

Ksh, long, whole, per lb 6 to 10 m. 

Fish, cubical, per lb 15 m. 

Clams, Oysters 3 to 5 m. 

Beef, corned and k la mode . . 3 to 5 hrs. 

Soup stock 3 to 6 hrs. 

Veal, Mutton 2 to 3 hrs. 

Tongue 3 to 4 hrs. 

Potted pigeons 2 hrs. 

Ham 5 hrs. 

Sweetbreads 20 to 30 m. 

Sweet com 5 to 8 m. 

Asparagus, Tomatoes, Peas . . 15 to 20 m. 
Macaroni, Potatoes, Spinach, 

Squash, Celery, Cauliflower, 

Greens 20 to 30 m. 

Cabbage, Beets, young 30 to 45 m. 

Parsnips, Turnips 30 to 45 m. 

Carrots, Onions, Salsify 30 to 60 m. 

Beans, String and Shelled 1 to 2 hrs. 

Puddings, 1 quart, steamed. . 3 hrs. 

Puddings, small 1 hr. 

Frying 

Croquettes, Fish Balls 1 m. 

Doughnuts, Fritters 3 to 5 m. 

Bacon, Small Fish, Potatoes. 2 to 5 m. 

Breaded Chops and Fish 5 to 8 m. 

Broiling 

Steak, one inch thick 4 m. 

Steak, one and a half inch thick 6 m. 

Small, thin fish 5 to 8 m. 

Thick fish 12 to 15 m. 

Chops broiled in paper 8 to 10 m. 

Chickens 20 "i- 

Liver, Tripe, Bacon 3 to 8 m 



12 ^2 Sunday Dinners 

HELPFUL CULINARY HINTS 

On Methods of Cooking 

Water boiling slowly has the same temperature as when boiling rapidly, and will do 
just the same amount of w6rk;'there is, therefore, no object in wasting fuel to keep 
water boiling violently. 

Stewing is the most economical method of cooking the cheaper and tougher cuts of 
meats, fowl, etc. This method consists in cooking the food a long time in sufficient 
water to cover it — at a temperature slightly below the boiling point. 

Braising. In this method of cooking, drippings or fat salt pork are melted or tried 
out in the kettle and a bed of mixed vegetables, fine herbs and seasoning placed therein. 
The article being cooked is placed on this bed of vegetables, moisture is added and the 
meat cooked until tender at a low temperature. The last halt hour of cooking the 
cover is removed, so that the meat may brown richly. 

In broiling and grilling, the object is first to sear the surface over as quickly as 
possible, to retain the rich juices, then turn constantly until the food is richly browned. 
Pan-broiling is cooking the article in a greased, hissing-hot, cast-iron skillet, turning 
often and drawing oS the fat as it dries out. 

SavUing is practically the same as pan-broiling, except that the fat is allowed to 
remain in the skillet. The article is cooked in a small amount of fat, browning the 
food on one side and then turning and browning on the other side. 

Frying. While this term is sometimes used in the sense of sauteing it usually con- 
sists of cooking by means of immersion iq deep, hot fat. . When frying meats or fish it 
is best to keep them in a warm room a short time before cooking, then wipe dry as 
possible. As soon as the food has finished frying, it should be carefully removed from 
the fat and drained on brown paper. 

Egging and Crumbing Food 

Use for this dry bread crumbs, grated and sifted, crackers rolled and sifted, or soft 
stale bread broken in pieces and gently rubbed through croquette basket; the eggs 
should be broken into a shallow plate and slightly beaten with a fork to mix the white 
thoroughly. Dilute the eggs in the proportion of two tablespoons cold milk or water 
to every egg. The crumbs should be dusted"on the board; the food to be fried should 
be lighdy crumbed all over, then dipped into egg so as to cover the article entirely, then 
rolled again in bread crumbs. Sometimes, as in cooking fish, flour is used for die first 
coating in place of the crumbs, the article being then dipped into the egg mixture, then 
with crumbs and then fried. 

Larding 

Consists of introducing small strips of fat, salt pork or bacon through uncooked meat. 
To lard, introduce one end of the lardoon (the small strip of fat) into a larding needle 
and with the pointed end take up a stitch one-half inch deep and one-half inch wide. 
Draw the needle through carefully so that the ends of the lardoon may project evenly 
over the surface of the meat. Oftentimes, however, thin slices of fat, salt pork or 
bacon are placed over the meat as a substitute for larding, although it does not give 
quite the same delicious flavor or look so attractive. 

Marinating 

Consistsofaddingapickle, composed of vinegar and oil, to the ingredients of some 
combination used in salad making. 

Cleaning Cooking Utensils 

For washing dishes and cleaning pots and pans use a solution made by dissolving 
a teaspoonful or so of Gold Dust Washing Powder in a dish-pan full of water. If the 
cooking utensils have become charred or stained in cooking, sprinkle some Polly 
Prim Cleaner on a damp cloth and rub utensil thoroughly. After scouring, rinse 
the article well in hot water, and wipe dry. Use Polly Prim Cleaner also, for 
cleaning cutlery and for keeping the refrigerator clean and sweet. 



^ o^/^tTo^rpj 



\y 



Hail! hail! the New Year, ring 

the bells 
Till music echoes o 'er the dells, 
Play merry tunes, sing merry songs. 
For joy to this New Year belongs. 

— Raymond. 



V/, 





* % > 



if f 



14 52 Sunday Dinners ^r^w,. 

EDITOR'S NOTE: 

This menu — the first of the year — has been prepared rather more elaborately than 
the customary Sunday menus, viith the thought that it might serve also as sugges- 
tion for a New Year's Dinner. 

(YKlenu 

Oysters on the Half Shell 

Mangoes Salted Nuts Olives 

Consomme Duchess — Imperial Sticks 

Crab Meat in Timbalb Cases 

"Green" Goose Roasted — Potato and Nut Stuffing 

Chantillt Apple Sauce 

Onions au Gratin 

Endive, Celebt and Green Pepper Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream — Chocolate Sauce 

Cocoanut Cubes — Chocolate Nut Cake 

Fruit Raisins Nuts 

RpQUEFORT Cheese — Water Biscuit 

Cafe Noir 

A 1. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL 

3 dozen oysters. Salt, pepper, Tobasco, horse> 

2 lemons cut in quarters. radish and Tomato catsup. 

Process: If possible, have the little Blue Points. Open, loosen, 
and leave them on the lower shell. Fill soup plates with shaved ice 
and arrange shell on ice having the small end of shells point toward 
center of the plate. Wash lemons, cut in quarters, remove seeds 
and serve one-quarter in center of each plate. Garnish with sprays 
of parsley arranged between the shells. Pass remaining ingredients 
on a small silver tray, or a cocktail dressing may be made and served 
in a small glass dish and passed to each guest. 



iZTunday S^ Suitday Dinners is 

CONSOMMi: DUCHESS 

Consomme served with a meringue, prepared as follows: Beat 
the whites of eggs very stifiE and drop by heaping tablespoonsful into 
milk heated to the scalding point in a shallow vessel (a dripping pan 
is the best), using care that milk does not scorch. Turn each spoon- 
ful, allowing it to cook, until it sets. Place one of these individual 
meringues on the top of each service of consomme, and sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley. Serve with Imperial Sticks. 

IMPERIAL STICKS 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices, remove the crusts. 
Spread thinly with butter. Cut slices in one-third inch strips, put 
on a tin sheet and bake until a delicate brown in a hot oven. Pile 
"log cabin" fashion on a plate covered with a doily, or serve two 
sticks on plate by the side of cup in which soup is served. 

CRAB MEAT IN TIMBALE CASES 

8 Timbale cases. 1 tablespoon onion finely chopped. 

2 cups crab meat. Salt, pepper, paprika. 

3 tablespoons butter. Few grains each cayenne, mustard 
3 tablespoons flour. and nutmeg. 

Yolks 2 eggs. 2 cups hot thin cream. 

Pbocess: Melt butter in a sauce pan, add onion and cook five 
minutes without browning, stirring constantly. Add flour and 
stir until well blended. Add hot cream gradually, continue stirring, 
add seasoning to taste. Remove from range and add egg yolks 
slightly beaten. Reheat crab meat in sauce (over hot water). Serve 
in Swedish Timbales. 

SWEDISH TIMBALES 

1 cup flour. 1 egg. 

' y^ teaspoon salt. ^ cup milk. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 1 tablespoon olive oil. 

Process: Mix and sift flour, salt and sugar, add milk slowly, 
stirring constantly, add well beaten egg and olive oil. Mixture 
should be very smooth, strain and let stand over night. Heat a 



16 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



First Sunday 



timbale iron in hot Cottqlene, drain and dip iron into batter, (having 
batter in a small pitcher), place in hot Cottolene and fry until crisp 
and delicately browned. Remove from iron and invert on brown 
paper. These dainty cases are for all kinds of creamed mixtures. 
They are used instead of patty shells or croustades. 

ROAST GOOSE 
PREPARING THE GOOSE FOR THE OVEN 

Singe, and remove all pin feathers. Before drawing the bird 
give it a thorough scrubbing with a brush, in a warm Fairy soap 
solution. This is very necessary for it cleans off all dirt that becomes 
mixed with the oily secretions, and opens and cleanses the pores that 
the oil may be more readily extracted. Draw and remove every- 
thing that can be taken out, then rinse thoroughly and wipe inside 
and out, with a clean crash towel; sprinkle the inside lightly with 
salt, pepper, and powdered sage. (The latter may be omitted.) 

Stuff with the following mixture and truss as turkey. 

POTATO AND NUT STUFFING 
(For Roast Goose or Duck) 
4 cups hot mashed potatoes. }/2 teaspoon paprika. 

2H tablespoons jSnely chopped Ij^ teaspoon salt. 

onion or chives. J^ cup cream. 

1 cup English Walnut meats 2 tablespoons butter, 
chopped moderately. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon sweet herbs if the flavor is desired. 

Process: Mix the ingredients in the order given and fill the 
body of the goose. 

ROASTING THE BIRD 

After trussing, place the goose on a rack in a dripping pan, 
sprinkle with salt, cover the breast with thin slices of fat salt pork, 
and place in the oven. Cook three-quarters of an hour, basting 
often with the fat in the pan. Then remove pan from oven and 
drain off all the fat. Remove the slices of pork and sprinkle again 
with salt and dredge with flour and return to oven. When the flour 
is delicately browned, add one cup of boiling water and baste often; 



ilZ'sunday S^ SuTtday Dinners 17 

add more water when necessary. Sprinkle lightly with salt and 
again dredge with flour. Cook until tender, from one and one-half 
to three hours, according to the age of the bird. If you have a very 
young ^oose it is infinitely better to steam or braise it until tender, 
then dredge it with salt and flour and brown it richly in the oven. 
Serve on a bed of cress, garnish with Baked Snow or Jonathan 
apples. 

CHANTILLY APPLE SAUCE (WITH HORSERADISH) 

Pare, core and cut in quarters, five medium-sized Greenings. 
Cook with very Uttle water; when quite dry, rub through a fine 
puree strainer. To the pulp add one-half cup granulated sugar, 
five tablespoons grated horseradish, then fold in an equal quantity 
of whipped cream. Serve at once with roast goose, ducks or goslings. 

ONIONS AU X^RATIN 

Cook one quart of uniform-sized, silver-skinned onions in boiling 
salted water. When quite tender, drain and turn into a baking 
dish; cover with Cream Sauce (see Page 15 1), sprinkle the top with 
fine buttered cracker crumbs and finish cooking. Brown crumbs 
deUcately. 

ENDIVE, CELERY AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

Select crisp, well-bleached heads of endive, separate the leaves, 
keeping the green leaves separate from the bleached; wash and dry. 
Dispose the leaves on individual plates of ample size. Arrange the 
green leaves first, then the bleached leaves until a nest has been 
formed; fill the centers with the hearts of celery cut in one-half inch 
pieces. Cut a slice from the stem end of crisp red and green peppers, 
remove the seeds and veins and cut in the thinnest shreds possible, 
using the shears. Strew these shreds over each portion and, just 
before serving, marinate each with French Dressing. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

5^ cup sugar. 1 quart cream. 

3^ cup water. \y% tablespoons vanilla. 



18 5^ Sunday Dinners Fi"rsu«day 

Pbocess : Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water three minutes. 
Cool slightly and add to cream, add vanilla and freeze in the usual 
way. Pack in a brick-shape mold. Bury in salt and ice, let stand 
several hours. Remove from mold to serving platter and pour 
around each portion Hot Chocolate Sauce. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Melt two squares chocolate in a sauce-pan, add one cup sugar, 
one tablespoon butter and two-thirds cup boiling water. Simmer 
fifteen minutes. Cool slightly and add three-fourths teaspoon 
vanilla. 

COCOANUT CUBES 

Use recipe for Bride's Cake (see recipe on Page 175). Bake in a 
sheet. When cool cut in two-inch cubes and cover each cube with 
Boiled Frosting; sprinkle thickly with fresh grated cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE 

l/i cup Cottolene. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 
2 cups sugar. 34 teaspoon salt. 

4 eggs. 2 squares chocolate melted. 

1 cup milk. % cup English walnut meats broken 

2J^ cups flour. in pieces. 

J^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Pbocess: Cream Cottolene, add gradually one cup sugar, stirring 
constantly. Beat egg yolks thick and light, add gradually remain- 
ing cup of sugar; combine mixtures. Add melted chocolate. Mix 
and sift flour, baking powder and salt; add to first mixture alternately 
with milk. Add nut meats and vanilla, then cut and fold in the 
whites of eggs beaten stiff. Turn into a. well-greased tube pan and 
bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Cool and spread with 
boiled frosting. 



JTcZ'suniay $2 Suitduy Dinmrs 19 

QUenu 

Consomm6 with Egg Balls 

Celekt Olives 

Bkeaded Sea Bass — Sauce Tartare 

Norwegian Potatoes Stewed Tobiatoes 

Cabbage Relish 

Lemon Pie Cheese 

Cafe Noir 

4 V 

CONSOMMfi WITH EGG BALLS 

To six cups of hot Consomme add egg balls, serving three or 

four in each portion. 

EGG BALLS 

I hard cooked egg. Few drops onion juice. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon thick cream. 

Few grains pepper. J^ teaspoon finely chopped 

parsley. 

Process: Mash yolk, rub through a sieve, add finely cnopped 
white, seasonings, parsley and cream. Moisten with some of -the 
yolk of a raw egg until of the consistency to handle. Shape with the 
hands in tiny balls and poach two minutes in boiling water or a 
little consomme. Remove with skimmer. Serve at once. 

BREADED SEA BASS 

Remove the skin from a sea bass, bone and cut fillets in pieces 
for serving. Rub over with the cut side of a lemon, sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, dredge with flour. Dip in egg (diluted with two 
tablespoons cold water) then in fine cracker crumbs; repeat. Place 
in croquette basket and fry in deep, hot Cottolene. Drain, arrange 
on hot serving platter. Garnish with Norwegian Potatoes, parsley 
and slices of lemon. Serve Sauce Tartare in a sauce boat. 

(For recipe for Sauce Tartare see page 84.) 



20 ^2 Sunday Dinners it^sunday 

NORWEGIAN POTATOES 

Wash, scrub and pare six medium size potatoes. Cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Drain, pass through ricer. Add 
six anchovies drained from the oil in bottle and cut in one-fourth 
inch pieces, one-half teaspoon finely chopped parsley, one-half 
teaspoon French mustard, salt if necessary, one-eighth teaspoon 
pepper, a few grains nutmeg, two tablespoons butter, and yolks two 
eggs slightly beaten. Beat thoroughly, place on range and cook 
slowly three minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from range, 
spread mixture on plate to cool, then mold like small eggs. Roll 
in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Arrange in croquette basket and fry 
a golden brown in deep, hot Cottolene. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

To one can of hot tomatoes add two-thirds cup toasted bread 
crumbs. Season with salt, few drops Tobasco sauce, two table- 
spoons sugar, and one-fourth cup butter. Heat to boiling point and 
turn into hot serving dish. 

CABBAGE RELISH 

Chop crisp, white cabbage very fine (there should be two cups). 
Chop one green pepper and one medium-sized Bermuda onion the 
same. Mix well and season with one teaspoon, salt, one-eighth 
teaspoon black pepper, one teaspoon celery seed and three table- 
spoons sugar. Dilute one-fourth cup vinegar with two tablespoons 
cold water; add to relish. Chill and serve in crisp lettuce leaves. 

LEMON PIE 

^ cup sugar. 2 egg yolks slightly beaten. 

1 cup boiling water. 4 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. Grated rind one lemon. 
2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Few grains salt. 
Process: Mix sugar, cornstarch, flour and salt, add boiling 
water gradually, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water until 
mixture thickens; continue stirring. Add lemon juice, rind, butter, 



s^^'sunday 5^ Sufiduy Dififiers 21 

and egg yolks. line a pie pan with Rich Paste, wet edges, and lay 
around a rim of pastry one inch wide; flute edge. Cool mixture 
and turn in lined pan. Bake in a moderate oven until crust is well 
browned. Remove from oven, cool slightly, spread with meringue, 
return to oven to bake and brown meringue. 

MERINGUE 

Whites 2 eggs. 34 teaspoon lemon or orange 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar. extract. 

Process: Beat whites until stiff and dry; add sugar by the tea- 
spoonful; continue beating. Add flavoring, drop by drop. Spread 
unevenly over pie and bake fifteen minutes in a slow oven; brown 
the last five minutes of baking. 

CAFfi NOIR (AFTER-DINNER COFFEE) 

To prepare after-dinner coffee, use twice the quantity of coffee 
or half the quantity of water, given in recipe for Boiled Coffee (see 
Page 30). This coffee may be prepared in the Percolator, following 
the directions given in the foregoing. Milk or cream is not served 
with black coffee. Serve in hot after-dinner coffee cups, with or 
without cut loaf sugar. 



22 ^2 Sunday Dinners S°5««Aiy 

QVlenu 

Noodle Soup 

Boiled Beef — Hobsekadish Sauce 

Baked Potatoes 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

Chiffonade Salad 

Steamed Cottage Pudding 

Banana Sauce 

Coffee Tea 



NOODLE SOUP 

2 quarts Chicken Consomme. 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 
1 recipe noodles cut very fine (see below). 

Process: Cook fowl same as for Boiled Fowl (do not tie in 
cheese cloth). Draia fowl from stock, and strain. When cold, 
remove fat, and clear. Reheat, add noodles, and simmer twenty 
minutes. Sprinkle with parsley and serve very hot. 

NOODLES 

1 egg. Flour. 

]/2 teaspoon salt. Few grains nutmeg. 

Process: Beat egg sKghtly, add seasonings, add flour enough to 
make a stiff dough. Knead on a floured board until smooth and 
elastic. Roll out on a sheet as thin as paper, cover and let stand 
for half an hour. Roll loosely and cut the desired width, either in 
threads or ribbons, unroll and scatter over board; let lay half an 
hour. Cook in boiling, salted water flfteen minutes, drain and add 
to soup. Noodles may be cooked in Consomme twenty minutes but 
the soup will not be as clear as when noodles are cooked previously. 



ThMlunday 5^ Sufiday Dinners 23 

BOILED BEEF 

Have five pounds of beef, cut from the face of the rump. Wipe 
meat, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dredge with flour. Brown 
richly in an iron skillet in some of- its own fat tried out, turning 
often. Remove to kettle and cover with boiling water. Add one 
tablespoon salt, one-half teaspoon peppercorns, a bit of bay leaf, 
one carrot shced, one turnip sliced, and one-half onion sliced. Add 
two sprays each of parsley and thyme and one of marjoram. Cover 
and heat to boiling point. Skim when necessary. Reduce heat and 
simmer until meat is tender (four or five hours). Remove to serving 
platter. Strain stock and use for soup or sauces. Serve meat with 
hot -Horseradish Sauce. (For recipe see page 51.) 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook one cup macaroni, broken in inch piieces, in boiling salted 
water twenty minutes. Drain, and pour over cold water to 
separate pieces. Mix with one and one-half cups Tomato Sauce. 
Add one-half cup grated cheese. Turn into a buttered baking dish, 
cover with buttered crumbs, bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

1 half can tomatoes. Bit of bay leaf. 

y^ teaspoon soda. J^ teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon sugar. Few grains cayenne. 
6 peppercorns. 4 tablespoons butter. 

2 cloves. 3 tablespoons flour. 
SUce onion. 1 cup Brown Stock. 

Pkocess: Heat tomatoes to boiling point; add soda and the 
seven ingredients following. Cook twenty minutes. Rub through a 
puree strainer, add stock. Brown butter in a sauce-pan, add flour 
and continue browning, stirring constantly. Add hot tomato 
mixture slowly, mix well, and pour over Macaroni. 

CHIFFONADE SALAD 

Cut the hearts of celery in one-inch pieces, cut pieces in straws 
to fill one cup. Remove the pulp from grape fruit, leaving each 



24 52 Sunday Dinners ThMLmay 

half-section in its original shape. There should be one cup. Peel 
and chill four medium-sized tomatoes (Southern or hot-house at this 
season), cut in shces. Cut the bleached leaves of Chicory in pieces 
for serving, arrange in nests on serving dish, and arrange other 
ingredients in separate mounds in the nests. Marinate with French 
Dressing, and garnish each with chopped parsley, green and red 
sweet peppers cut in thread-like strips, and sprays of pepper-grass 
or parsley. Pass Mayonnaise Dressing. 

STEAMED COTTAGE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups flour. 

2 eggs. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

34 teaspoon salt. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly, add yolks of eggs beaten very light. Mix and sift flour, 
baking powder and salt, add to first mixture alternately with milk; 
cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn in a well- 
buttered tube mold, and steam one and one-half hours. Serve 
with Vanilla, Strawberry, or Banana Sauce. 

BANANA SAUCE 

1 cup water. 3 tablespoons lemon juice. 

J^ cup sugar. 2 eggs well beaten. 

Pulp 3 bananas. Few grains salt. 

Few gratings lemon rind. 

Process: Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar ten minutes. 
Rub bananas through a sieve, add remaining ingredients and beat 
until well blended and light. Pour on hot syrup slowly, beating 
constantly. Serve hot. Pulp of peaches or apricots may be used 
in place of bananas. 



Fm7h Sunday , 5^ Sufiday Dtfiners 2S 

Qfjflenu 

Corn Chowdeb 

Crisp Soda Crackers 

Ox Joints EN Casserole 

Boiled Rice Parsnips Sauted in Butter 

Cheese and Pimento Salad 

Ambrosia Anise Wafers 

Coffee 



CORN CHOWDER 

2 cups cooked com cut from 3 cups water. 

cob, or 2 cups scalded ntilk. 

1 can of corn. 1 tablespoon butter. ^ 

1 cup salt pork cubes. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup potatoes cut in cubes. % cup cracker crumbs. 

3^ onion sliced. Salt, Pepper. 

Process: Cut salt pork in one-fourth inch cubes and try out in 
a frying pan; add onion, and cook until yellow. Pare and cut 
potatoes in one-half inch cubes, parboil five minutes. Add to onion, 
with corn and water; cover and cook twenty minutes or until pota- 
toes are soft. Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add flour, stir to a smooth 
paste, pour some of the milk on slowly, stirring constantly. Com- 
bine mixtures; add crumbs and seasonings. Serve for dinner in 
cups or in small "nappies." 

OX JOINTS EN CASSEROLE 

Separate ox-taUs at joints, parboil five minutes; then rinse thor- 
oughly. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dredge with flour. Melt 
one-fourth cup butter in frying pan, add three slices onion and 



26 ^2 Sunday Dinners FZ"rsvnday 

joints, saute until joints are well browned. Remove joints and 
onion; to fat add one-fourth cup flour, brown slightly, stirring con- 
stantly. Add slowly two cups of Brown Stock, or water and a 
large can of tomatoes. Add one-half tablespoon salt and one-fourth 
teaspoon pepper. Turn iuto an earthen casserole, or Dutch oven, 
cover, place in oven and simmer slowly three to four hours. Add 
more moisture if necessary. Remove joints, strain liquor, return 
joints to liquor, add one cup each carrot and turnip cut in straws 
and parboiled in boiling, salted water ten minutes, and set in oven 
to complete cooking. Serve in Casserole or in a deep platter sur- 
roimded with a border of boiled rice. 

BOILED RICE 

Wash one cup of rice, drain and add slowly to three quarts 
boiling salted water so as not to stop water boiling. Boil rapidly 
until rice is tender (twenty to twenty -five minutes). Drain in a 
sieve, pour over cold water to separate kernels. Turn into double 
boiler, and cover with a crash towel; keep hot over hot water. 

PARSNIPS SAUTED in BUTTER 

Wash parsnips, cover with boiling water, add salt to season. 
Cook imtil tender — thirty-five to fifty minutes. Drain and cover 
quickly with cold water; rub oflp skins with the hands. Cut in one- 
fourth inch slices, sprinkle with salt, pepper; dip in flour and saute 
a golden brown in hot butter. Brown on one side, then turn and 
brown on the other. 

CHEESE AND PIMENTO SALAD 

Mix two cream cheeses with one-half cup finely chopped pimen- 
tos. (Drain pimentos from Uquor in can, and dry them on crash 
towel.) Add one tablespoon finely chopped chives or onion, one- 
half teaspoon finely chopped parsley, season with salt and cayenne. 
Moisten with thick cream, and pack sohdly in prepared green pepper- 
cups. Set aside in a cold place for several hours. With a sharp 
knife cut in thin slices crosswise. Arrange two slices on crisp 
lettuce leaves; serve with French Dressing. 



iZZsunday 5^ Sufiday Dinners 27 

AMBROSIA 

6 sweet Florida oranges. J^ cup fine table Sherry wine. 

1 cocoanut grated. J^ cup lemon juice. 

4 plantains (red bananas). Bar sugar. 

Process: Peel the oranges, separate the sections, remove the 
tough membrane and seeds. Dispose a layer of orange pulp in bot- 
tom of shallow, glass, serving-dish, sprinkle with wine and lemon 
juice and sugar, strew with cocoanut and a layer of thinly sliced 
banana. Repeat until all ingredients are used, having a thick layer 
of cocoanut on top. The fruit should be piled in cone shape. Chill 
and serve with dainty cakes, macaroons, Anise wafers, etc. 

ANISE SEED WAFERS 

J^ cup Cottolene. 3 teaspoons anise seed. 

1 cup granulated sugar. J^ teaspoon nutmeg. 
3 eggs. J^ teaspoon salt. 

2 cups flour. Flour. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, add e^g yolks, 
one at a time, beating constantly. Beat whites of eggs stiff, add to 
first mixture alternately with flour mixed and sifted with anise seed, 
nutmeg and salt. Add just enough extra flour to dough to roll 
very thin. Shape with small, fluted cutter, and bake in a quick oven. 



28 ^2 Sunday Dinners ptflhsunday 

QVlentt 

Otsteks on the Half Shell 

Consomme with Rice Balls 

Braised Beef Tongue — Savory Sauce 

Bakk) Potatoes Bermuda Onions, Buttbe Sauce 

Creamed Celery 

Florida Salad 

Yankee Plum Pudding — Vanilla Sauce 

Coffee 

-i J- 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL 

(For recipe see Page 14.) Serve small cress or cucumber sand- 
wiches with this course. 

CONSOMME WITH RICE BALLS 

To six cups of hot Consomme, (for recipe see Page 149), add 
Rice Balls. 

RICE BALLS 

1 cup cold, cooked rice. 1 teaspoon finely chopped pars- 

2 tablespoons flour. ley. 

1 teaspoon grated onion. 1 egg slightly beaten. 

Salt, pepper, cayenne. 

Process: Warm rice slightly and rub through a sieve, add flour, 
seasonings, and bind together with egg. Measure mixture by the 
teaspoonful. Roll in small balls. Poach until firm on outside in 
boiling salted water. Remove with skimmer and drop into clear, hot 
soup. 



JmTunaay 52 Sunday Dinners 29 

BRAISED BEEF TONGUE 

Order a fresh tongue. Wash and put tongue in a kettle, cover 
with boiling water; cook slowly two to three hours. Remove tongue 
from water, peel off skin, and trim off roots. Place in Dutch oven or 
deep earthen dish, and surround with one-half cup each carrot, 
turnip, celery and onion, cut in half-inch dice, one green pepper 
(seeds and veins removed) cut in shreds, and two sprays parsley. 
Pour over one quart of Brown Sauce seasoned with one-half table- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce. (Stock in which tongue was cooked may 
be used for making sauce.) Cover closely and simmer slowly (do 
not allow sauce to boil) two hours or until tongue is tender. Serve 
on hot platter. Surround with auce. 

BAKED POTATOES 
(For recipe see Page 140.) 

BERMUDA Onions with butter sauce 

Peel the desired number of Bermuda onions. Cover with 
boiling water. Heat to boiling point, boil five minutes, drain ; repeat. 
Then cover with boiling salted water, and cook until tender (from 
forty-five minutes to one hour). Drain well. Dot over with bits 
of butter, finely chopped parsley, and pepper. Serve hot. 

CREAMED CELERY 

Wash, scrape and cut celery in one-half inch pieces. Cook in 
boiling salted water until tender; drain. (There should be two 
cups.) Cut a slice from the stem end of one green or red pepper, 
remove the seeds and veins. Parboil pepper eight minutes; drain and 
chop half the pepper fine. Add to celery, and reheat in one cup of 
White Sauce. 

FLORIDA SALAD 

Remove the peel from six large Florida Navel oranges. Separate 
the sections, and peel off the membrane, keeping the pulp in its 
original shape. Cut each section crosswise once. Dispose the 
orange cubes equally in nests of lettuce-heart leaves. Arrange the 



30 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



January 
Fifth Sunday 



halves of English walnuts over these and marinate with French 
Dressing, using lemon and orange juice, also some of the fine orange 
pulp, in place of vinegar. Sprinkle with paprika. 

YANKEE PLUM PUDDING 

^ cup Cottolene. J^ teaspoon cloves. 

1 cup N. O. molasses. J^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

3 cups flour. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

IJ^ teaspoons soda. 1 cup sweet milk. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 1 cup seeded shredded raisins. 

1 cup English Walnut meats broken in pieces. 
Process: Cream Cottolene, add molasses; mix and sift flour, 
soda, spices and salt; add alternately with milk, reserving enough 
flour to dredge raisins and nut meats; mix well and turn in buttered 
molds. Steam three hours. Serve with Brandy or Vanilla Sauce. 
(For recipe Vanilla Sauce see Page 136.) 

BOILED COFFEE 

1 cup medium ground coffee. 6 cups boiling water. ■ 
White 1 egg. 1 cup cold water. 

Process: Scald a granite- ware coffeepot. Beat ^gg slightly 
and dilute with one-half cup cold water, add to coffee and mix thor- 
oughly. Turn into coffeepot and add boiling water, stir well. 
Place on range; let boil five minutes. If not boiled sufficiently, 
coffee wiU not be clear; if boiled too long, the tannic acid will be ex- 
tracted, causing serious gastric trouble. Stuff the spout of pot 
with soft paper to prevent the escape of aroma. Stir down, pour 
off one cup to clear the spout of grounds, return to pot. Add re- 
maining half-cup cold water to complete thie clearing process. Place 
pot on back of range for ten minutes, where coffee will not boil. 
Serve immediately. If coffee must be kept longer, drain from the 
grounds and keep just below boihng point. 



^G£ruarp!^ 



Variety 's the very spice of life. 
That gives it all its flavor. 

— Cowper. 







_.^:SiM2 




t-£isi*<!*L^i«iSE: 



32 ^2 Sunday Dinners Itstsuniay 

(YUenu 

Geape-Feuit Cocktails 

Tomato Bouillon 

Lake Teotjt Baked in Papee Bag 

Sauce k I'Italienne 

Phbnch Feied Potatoes Bbussels Spbouts 

Feench Endive — Feench Deessing 

Egoless Rice Pudding — Haed Sauce 

Coffee 

4 K 

GRAPE-FRUIT COCKTAIL 

Select heavy grape-fruit (weight means more pulp than rind). 
Chill, cut in halves, and remove the sections of pulp, preserving the 
shape of sections if possible. Remove the skins from Malaga 
grapes, cut in halves lengthwise, remove seeds (there should be 
equal quantity of both grape-fruit pulp and prepared grapes). 
Reserve the juice. Chill fruit thoroughly, serve in tall stem glasses, 
add a little juice, sprinkle each with a tablespoon bar sugar, and just 
before serving pour over each portion one tablespoon Sloe Gin or 
"Sweet" Sherry Wine. 

TOMATO BOUILLON 

To five cups of Standard Broth add one cup of thick tomato 
puree. Reheat and serve in bouillon cups. 

STANDARD BROTH 

(Beef, Veal, Lamb, Chicken ob Game) 

4 pounds meat. 2 sprays thyme. 

1 pound marrow bone. 2 sprays parsley. 

2j/^ quarts cold water. )/^ bay leaf. 

J^ teaspoon peppercorns. J^ cup each diced carrot, onion, 

4 cloves. and celery. 

1 spray marjoram. J/^ tablespoon salt. 



ftTway 52 Sunday Dinners zz 

Process: Remove meat from bone and cut in inch cubes; browii 
richly one third of meat in some of the marrow taken from bone. 
Cover remainder of meat with cold water, let stand thirty minutes, 
then add browned meat and rinse the pan in which meat was browned 
with some of the water. Bring to boiling point and skim. Reduce 
heat and boil gently five hours; stock should be reduced to three 
pints. Add seasonings the last hour of cooking. Strain, cool, 
remove fat, and clear. 

LAKE TROUT BAKED IN PAPER BAG 

Clean a four-pound lake trout. Sprinkle inside with salt and 
pepper. Fill with stuffing (recipe next page); sew. Spread 
with soft butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay fish carefully 
in a well greased paper bag, add one-fourth cup white wine, one- 
half onion finely chopped, six fresh (or ten canned) mushrooms, cut 
in small pieces, and one-fourth cup water. Press air from bag, 
fold open end over three times, fold sides and corners close to 
fish, first moistening the bag on corners and edges; lay in a dripping- 
pan and place in a hot oven. When bag is browned evenly (not 
burned) reduce heat, and bake fish one hour. (Bag will brown in 
ten minutes.) Remove from bag to serving platter and pour con- 
tents of bag over fish. Serve with the following sauce: 

SAUCE A L'lTALIENNE 

23^ tablespoons butter. ' 3 cloves. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped onion. 2 sprays marjoram. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped carrot. 3 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped lean im- 1 cup Brown Stock. 

cooked ham. Ij^ cups white wine. 

J^ teaspoon peppercorns. 1 clove garliq. 

2 teaspoons finely chopped parsley. 

Process: Brown butter in a sauce-pan, add onion, carrot, ham, 
peppercorns, cloves and marjoram, and cook five minutes. Add 
flour and stir until flour is well browned; add gradually stock and 
wine, strain, add garlic and simmer five minutes. Remove garlic 
and pour around Baked Lake Trout. Sprinkle with parsley. 



34 ^2 Sunday Dinners Fts"sunday 

STUFFING FOR FISH 

1 cup cracker crumbs. 1 teaspoon salt'. 

2 teaspoons finely chopped parsley. 1 teaspoon grated onion. 
1 tablespoon finely chopped pickles. 3 tablespoons butter. 

}£ to 3^ cup boiling water. 

Process: Melt butter in hot water; add remaining ingredients 
in the order given. Mix hghtly with a fork. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

Look over, remove wilted leaves from sprouts, cover with cold 
water, let soak one-half hour. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender when pierced with a wooden skewer. Drain thoroughly, 
serve with melted butter, salt (if needed), and pepper, or reheat in 
thin Cream Sauce, allowing one cup Sauce for each pint of sprouts. 

FRENCH ENDIVE 

Remove the imperfect outer stalks from the desired number of 
heads of French Endive. If heads are large, cut them in halves 
lengthwise; if small, Separate the stalks. Wash, drain and chill. 
Serve with French Dressing (see Page 83). 

EGOLESS RICE PUDDING 

4 cups milk. J^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

^ cup rice. 1 tablespoon butter. 

}/£ cup molasses. 3^ cup seeded raisins. 

Salt. 

Pbocess: Wash rice; mix ingredients in the order given and 
pour into a buttered baking dish; bake three hours in a slow oven, 
stirring three times during first hour of cooking to prevent rice 
from settling. When stirring the last time, add butter. Serve with 
Hard Sauce. (For recipe see Page 161.) 



Second Sunday ff2 Sufldciy DtnTlBrS 35 

QYlenu 

Chicken Consomme with Maoakoni Rings and 

Pimentos 

Breast op Lamb Stuffed and Roasted 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern Style 

Buttered String Beans 

Cabbage Salal 

Apple Cake with Lemon Sauce 

Boiled Coffee 



CHICKEN CONSOMME WITH MACARONI RINGS AND 

PIMENTOS 

2 quarts Chicken Consomm^. ^ cup cooked macaroni. 

1 tablespoon pimentos. 

Process: Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender. 
Drain and pour over one cup cold water. With a sharp knife cut 
in thin rings. Drain pimentos from the liquor in can, dry on a 
crash towel. Cut in strips, then cut strips in small diamonds. Add 
both to Consomme, heat to boiling point and serve in cups. 

BREAST OF LAMB STUFFED AND ROASTED 

Peel oflf the outer skin from a breast of lamb, remove bones, 
stuff, (see Page 36), shape in a compact roll and sew. Spread with 
salt pork fat, sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. 
Sear the surface over quickly in hot salt pork fat, then place in the 
oven. Let cook one hour and a half, basting often with fat in pan. 
Serve with French Fried Sweet Potatoes and Currant Jelly Sauce. 
Garnish meat with sprays of fresh mint. 



36 ^2 Sunday Dinners sfZds»nday 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

To Brown Sauce (for recipe see Page 82) add one-half cup 
black or red currant jelly whipped with a fork, one teaspoon lemon 
juice and a few gratings of onion. Heat to boiling point, boil three 
minutes and serve in sauce boat. Onion may be omitted. 

STUFFING FOR LAMB 

2 cups soft bread crumbs. 1 tablespoon poultry seasoning. 
}i cup butter. 1 tablespoon finely chopped onion. 

li cup hot water. 3^ tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

Salt, Pepper. 
Process: Melt butter in hot water, add to bread crumbs, 
toss lightly with a fork. Add remaining ingredients in the order 
given. If desired moister, increase the quantity of hot water, 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Peel cold, boiled sweet potatoes and cut lengthwise in slices one- 
half inch thick. Arrange in layers in a well-greased quart baking 
dish. Cover each layer generously with brown sugar and dots of 
butter, a sprinkle of salt and pepper. Continue until dish is full. 
Add one cup hot water and bake in hot oven until liquor is "syrupy" 
and potatoes are brown on top. 

BUTTERED STRING BEANS 

Remove the strings and cut beans diagonally in one-half inch 
pieces. Wash and cook in boiling water from one to three hours, 
adding salt the last half hour of cooking. Drain and rehdat in 
White Sauce or dress with melted butter, pepper and more salt if 
needed. If canned beans are used (and they would be in some 
localities at this season of the year) turn them from the can into 
sauce-pan and reheat them in their own liquor. Drain and dress 
them with melted butter, salt, and pepper. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Use only the center of a firm head of white cabbage. Shred 
it very fine and cover with ice water until crisp. Drain thoroughly 



Febntary 

Second Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 37 



and mix with one medium-sized, thinly sliced Spanish onion. Mix 
with either French or Cream Salad Dressing (for recipe see Page 105). 

APPLE CAKE WITH LEMON SAUCE 

2 cups flour. 1 egg well beaten. 
]/2 teaspoon salt. ^ cup milk. 

]/2 teaspoon soda. 4 tart, fine flavored apples. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 3 tablespoons granulated sugar. 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. 34 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Process: Mix and sift the dry ingredients in the order given; 
rub in Cottolene with tips of fingers; add beaten egg to milk and 
add slowly to first mixture stirring constantly, then beat until 
dough is smooth. Spread dough evenly in a shallow, square layer 
cake pan to the depth of one inch. Core, pare and cut apples in 
eighths, lay them in parallel rows on top of dough, pressing the 
sharp edge into the dough half the depth of apples. Sprinkle 
sugar and cinnamon over top. Bake in hot oven twenty-five to 
thirty minutes. Serve hot with butter as a luncheon dish, or as 
a dessert for dinner with Lemon Sauce. 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 teaspoons arrowroot. Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

2 cups boiUng water. Few grains salt. 

Pkocess: Mix arrowroot, sugar and salt, pour on boiling water 
slowly, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water twenty minutes, 
stirring constantly the first five minutes, afterwards occasionally. 
Remove from range. Add lemon juice, rind, and butter in small 
bits. Beat well and serve hot. 



38 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



February 
Third Sunday 



QYli 



lenu 

Scotch Potato Soup 

Roast Shoulder of Pork 

Spiced Apple Sauce 

Erin Potatoes Boiled White Beans 

Celery Salad 

Squash Pie Neufchatel Cheese 

Coffee 

-I -t- 

SCOTCH POTATO SOUP 

1 bunch leeks or 2 cups onion. 3 cups potato cubes. 

1 head celery. 2 tablespoons flour. 

5 tablespoons butter. 3^ tablespoon finely chopped 

1 quart milk. parsley. 

Salt, pepper. 
Process: Cut leeks and celery in thin slices crosswise and saut6 
in two tablespoons butter eight minutes (without browning), stirring 
constantly. Turn milk into double boiler, add leeks and celery; 
cover and cook until vegetables are tender (about forty -five minutes). 
Parboil potato cubes in boiling salted water ten minutes. Melt 
remaining butter in a sauce-pan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste, 
remove from range and pour on slowly some of the milk until mix- 
ture is of the consistency to pour. Combine mixtures, add season- 
ings, and cook in double boiler until potatoes are tender. Turn into 
hot soup tureen and sprinkle with parsley. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF PORK 

Have meat cut from "little pig." Wipe and follow directions 
for roasting Loin of Pork. (See Page 173.) 

SPICED APPLE SAUCE 

Wipe, pare and core six or eight tart apples. Place them in 
sauce-pan, add just enough water to prevent burning; add three or 



February ^^ Suuday Dlnmrs 39 



Third Sunday 



four cloves and half a dozen Cassia buds. Cook to a mush. Pass 
through a sieve; return to sauce-pan, add three-fourths cup sugar 
and cook five minutes, stirring constantly. Cool and serve. 

ERIN POTATOES 

Remove seeds and veins and parboil one mild green pepper 
eight minutes. ■ Chop fine, add to Mashed Potatoes. 

BOILED WHITE BEANS 

Pick over and wash two cups white beans; cover with two quarts 
cold water and let soak overnight; drain and place them in a stew-pan, 
cover with two quarts cold water, add one small carrot cut in quarters, 
one medium-sized onion cut in half, two sprays parsley and one- 
quarter pound of lean salt pork, one-half tablespoon salt; cover and 
cook slowly until beans are tender (about two hours). Remove 
vegetables, drain 'beans. Chop the pork and mix with beans. 

CELERY SALAD 

Scrape and wash the tender hearts of crisp celery, cut in one- 
inch pieces; cut pieces in straws lengthwise; there should be two cups. 
Add one cup blanched and shredded almonds, mix well and marinate 
with French Dressing and let stand one hour. Drain and arrange 
in nests of heart lettuce leaves, sprinkle with the rings of Spanish 
onion thinly sliced (using the heart rings). Mask with Mayonnaise 
or with Boiled Salad Dressing. 

SQUASH PIE (ECONOMICAL) 

Bake the half of a Hubbard squash, scoop out the pulp, rub 
through a strainer. (There should be one and one-half cups.) Add 
one cup hot milk, one-half cup sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one- 
half teaspoon ginger, one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg and one egg well 
beaten. Mix well. Line a pie pan with Plain Paste, put an extra 
rim of pastry around edge of pie, flute rim and turn in mixture. 
Bake thirty minutes in a moderately hot oven. 



40 S2 Sunday Dinners F^TLnday 

Qfaenu 

Tomato Soup 

Roast Guinea Fowl — Giblet Sauce 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Potato Souffles — Egg-Plant With Fine Herbs 

Dressed Head Lettuce 

Orange Ice — Chocolate Jumbles 

Coffee 



TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes, or 1 quart 4 cloves. 

tomatoes peeled and cut in J^ teaspoon peppercorns, 

pieces. Few gratings nutmeg. 

2 slices onion. 3 tablespoons butter. 
2 sprays parsley. 2 tablespoons flour. 
Bit of bay leaf. Salt, pepper, cayenne. 

Process: Cook the first six ingredients together twenty minutes. 
Rub through a puree strainer, keep hot. Melt butter in a sauce- 
pan, add flour and stir to a smooth paste, let cook one minute; dilute 
with tomato mixture to the consistency to pour. Combine mixtures 
and season with salt, a few grains cayenne and a grating of nutmeg. 
Reheat and serve with crisp, toasted Saratoga Wafers. 

ROAST GUINEA FOWL 

Clean, singe, draw and truss in the same way as for roasting 
chicken. Stuff if desired. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay 
very thin shoes of fat salt pork over the breast, wings and legs. 
Place in a covered roasting pan, pour in one-half cup water, set 
in oven and roast from forty-flve minutes to one hour (continue 
cooking if liked well done), turning so as to brown evenly. (When 
the roasting pan is used there need be no basting.) If roasted in 



^F^Ts^niay $2 Sunduy Dinners 4i 

an open dripping-pan, baste every ten to fifteen minutes. The flesh 
of this bird is dry and is therefore best cooked rare. Serve as roast 
chicken. Prepare sauce same as Giblet Sauce. (See Page 154.) 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

The young, tender stalks of rhubarb need only be washed, tops 
and root cut off, then cut in one-inch pieces (without peehng). 
Put in a sauce-pan, add just enough water to prevent burning. 
Cook slowly until soft. Add sugar to sweeten to taste, cook five 
minutes, cool and turn into serving dish. 

POTATO SOUFFLES 

Select six medium-sized, rather flat potatoes. Wash, pare and 
trim them square, then cut lengthwise in slices one-eighth of an 
inch thick (no thic^^er). Wash and dry them on a towel. Drop a 
few at a time into hot Cottolene (not smoking hot), fry them four 
minutes, turning them occasionally. Remove with skimmer to a 
croquette basket, let stand five minutes while the fat is heating. 
When hot enough to brown an inch cube of bread in forty seconds, 
place the basket containing potatoes into fat, shake constantly and 
fry two minutes. Drain on brown paper. Repeat process until 
all potatoes are used. Sprinkle with salt and dispose around roasted 
Guinea Fowl. 

EGG-PLANT SAUTE (With Fine Herbs) 

Pare a medium-sized egg-plant, cut in very thin sUces, sprinkle 
with salt and pile in a colander. Cover with a plate and weights 
to press out the acrid juice; let stand two hours, sprinkle with 
pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in hot butter until crisp and 
a golden brown. Mix together one-half teaspoon each finely chopped 
parsley and chives, one-fourth teaspoon very finely chopped chervil 
and sprinkle lightly over egg-plant as soon as crisp. Arrange on hot 
serving dish and serve at once. 

DRESSED HEAD LETTUCE 

Remove the outer green leaves from two medium-sized heads of 
crisp head lettuce. Wash carefully, without separating the leaves; 



42 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



February 
Fourth Sunday 



drain dry in a wire basket or on towels. Cut heads in halves length- 
wise and arrange in salad b,owl. Set aside in a cool place, and, just 
before serving, pour over French Dressing. Serve at once. 

ORANGE ICE 

4 cups water. 2 cups orange juice, 

23^ cups sugar. 3^ cup lenron juice. 

Rind of two oranges. 

Process: Pare the rind as thinly as possible from two oranges; 

add to water and sugar, and cook twenty minutes. Remove rind, 

add fruit juice, strain, cool and freeze. Serve in stem glasses. 

CHOCOLATE JUMBLES 

}/i cup Cottolene. ^ 2 eggs beaten thick and hght. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

2 squares chocolate grated. 2 cups flour. 

1 tablespoon milk or water. J^ teaspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly, add chocolate, milk and eggs. Mix and sift flour, baking 
powder and salt; add to first mixture. Add more flour if necessary. 
Dough should be soft. Toss on a floured board, roll out to one-half 
inch thickness, shape with a doughnut cutter, sprinkle with gran- 
ulated sugar and bake ten to twelve minutes in a hot oven. 



d^arefh 



What and how great the virtue and 

the art 
To live on little with a cheerful 

heart. — Pope. 




44 ^2 Sunday Dinners ^Zsunday 

Qflflenu 

Spring Soup — Crusts 

Breast of Veal Roasted — Brown Sauce 

Spanish Rice Mashed Parsnips 

Pineapple Fritters 

Red Cabbage, Celery and Onion Salad 

Steamed Currant Pudding 

Dried Apricot and Hard Sauce 

Small Cups Coffee 



SPRING SOUP 

3 bunches chopped watercress. 3^ cup thin cream. 

1 bunch young onions. Yolk 1 egg slightly beaten. 
3 tablespoons butter. Salt, pepper. 

2 tablespoons flour. Parsley finely chopped. 

Process: Pick off the leaves of cress and chop fine. Cut onions 
in thin slices. Cook watercress and onions in butter five minutes 
(without browning), add flour and salt, stir until smooth, then pour 
milk on gradually, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water twenty 
minutes. Add beef extract, stir until dissolved; season with Wor- 
cestershire sauce and a few grains cayenne. Strain into hot soup 
tureen, add whipped cream and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

CRUSTS 

Cut stale sandwich bread lengthwise in one-inch thick slices 
and remove crusts. Cut slices in bars one inch wide and six inches 
long. Bake in a hot oven until delicately browned. Turn them so 
that crusts may brown evenly on all sides. Serve hot and crisp. 



Tfsunday S^ Suitday Dtfimrs 45 

BREAST OF VEAL ROASTED 

Six pounds of veal cut from the breast. Wipe, and skewer meat 
into shape, sprinkle with salt, pepper, dredge with flour and cover top 
with thin slices of fat salt pork. Lay in a dripping pan and strew 
cubes of pork around meat. Place in a very hot oven for the first 
half hour, basting every ten minutes with fat in pan, then reduce heat 
and cook meat slowly until tender, allowing twenty minutes to pound; 
continue basting. The last half hour of cooking remove salt pork, 
dredge meat again with flour, and brown richly. Remove meat to 
hot serving platter, surround with Spanish Rice and prepare a Brown 
Sauce from some of the fat in pan. (See Page 82 for Brown Sauce.) 

SPANISH RICE 

Cover one cup of rice with cold water; heat to boiling point 
and boil two minutes. Drain in a strainer, rinse well with cold 
water and drain again. Cut four slices of bacon in shreds, cross- 
wise, and cook until crisp. Remove bacon, add to rice. Cut one- 
half of a green or red pepper in shreds and cook in bacon fat until 
soft, then add pepper and bacon fat to rice. Cover with three cups 
of well-seasoned chicken broth, season well with salt, cover and let 
cook until rice has absorbed broth and is tender, then add one cup 
of thick tomato puree and two-thirds cup of grated cheese. Mix 
well with a fork and let heat through over boiling water. Serve 
with roast veal or breaded veal cutlets. 

MASHED PARSNIPS 

Wash and cook in boiling water, drain and plunge into cold water, 
when the skins may be easily rubbed off. Mash and rub through a 
sieve. Season with salt, pepper, butter and moisten with a little 
cream or milk. Reheat ov^r hot water and serve. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 

Drain sliced pineapple from the liquor in the can. Dry on a 
crash towel. Dip in batter and fry a golden Drown in deep hot 
Cottolene. Drain on brown paper, sprinkle" with powdered sugar 
and serve with some of the liquor from which it was drained. This 



46 ^2 Sunday Dinners ^'"way 

may be slightly thickened with arrowroot, allowing one teaspoon 
arrowroot to each cup of liquor. 

BATTER FOB FRITTERS 

1 cup bread flour. ^ cup milk. 

1 tablespoon sugar. J/^ teaspoon melted Cottolene. 

34 teaspoon salt. White one egg beaten stifiP. 

Pkocess: Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add milk slowly, stirring 
constantly until batter is smooth; add Cottolene and white of egg. 
Batter must be smooth as cream. 

RED CABBAGE. CELERY AND ONION SALAD 

Select a small, solid head of red cabbage; remove the wilted 
leaves. Cut in quarters and cut out the tough stalk and the coarse 
ribs of the leaves. Cover with cold water and let soak until cabbage 
. is crisp; drain, then shave in thin shreds, and mix with the hearts 
of two or three heads (according to their size) of crisp celery, cut 
in small pieces crosswise. Add one medium-sized Spanish onion, 
finely chopped, and dress with Boiled Salad Dressing. Serve in 
lettuce heart leaves or in nests of cress. 

STEAM CURRANT PUDDING 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. J^ teaspoon salt. 

J^ cup sugar. 1 egg well beaten. 

2J^ cups floiu*. 1 cup milk. 

3^/^ teaspoons baking powder. J^ cup currants. 
Pbocess: Mix and sift the dry ingredients (reserving two table- 
spoons flour), rub in Cottolene with tips of fingers. Sprinkle two 
tablespoons flour over cleaned currants, add to first mixture; add 
milk gradually, beat well and turn into a buttered mold; cover 
and steam two hours. Serve with Dried Apricot and Hard Sauce. 

DRIED APRICOT SAUCE 

Wash and pick over dried apricots, soak over night in cold water 
to cover. Cook until soft and quite dry, in the water in which they 
were soaked. Rub through a sieve and sweeten to taste. Reheat, 
and drop a spoonful on each portion of pudding, place a small star 
of Hard Sauce in center and serve. 



seZnd Sunday 5^ SuTiday DiTiners 47 

(menu 

Chicken Stew with Dumplings 
Onions in Cheam Stewed Corn 

Watercress and Egg Salad 

Rhubarb Pie Gbeam Cheese 

Coffee 



STEWED CHICKEN 

Dress, clean and cut up a chicken (a year old). Put in a stew- 
pan, cover with "boiling water. Add one small onion sliced, two 
stalks celery cut in pieces, two sprays parsley and one-haH teaspoon 
peppercorns. Cover and cook slowly until tender. Add one table- 
spoon salt the last hour of cooking. Remove chicken, strain liquor 
and remove some of the fat if necessary. Thicken the stock with 
two-thirds cup of flour diluted with sufficient cold water to pour 
readily. Return chicken to "gravy," heat to boiUng point. Drop 
dumplings on top of chicken, cover stew-pan with a towel, replace 
the cover and steam dumplings twelve minutes. Arrange chicken 
on hot serving platter, surround with dumplings, sprinkle lightly 
with finely chopped parsley. 

DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 1 teaspoon Cottolene. 
% cup milk. 

Process: Sift together twice, flour, baking powder and salt, 
rub in Cottolene with tips of fingers. Add milk gradually, mixing 
it in with a knife. Drop from tip of spoon on top of meat, an inch 
apart; cover closely and steam twelve minutes. 



48 S2 Sunday Dinners seZd Sunday 

ONIONS WITH CREAM 

Select silver-skin onions of a uniform size; peel and cover with 
boiling water, bring to boiling point, drain and repeat. Then cover 
with boiling water, season with salt and cook until onions are tender 
(from forty-five to sixty minutes). Drain and add one-half cup 
hot cream (to eight onions). Sprinkle with black pepper and serve. 

STEWED DRIED CORN 

Soak two cups dried sweet corn overnight, in cold water to cover. 
In the morning place on range and simmer slowly until corn is 
tender and water is absorbed, add more water if necessary. Add 
one-fourth cup butter, two teaspoons sugar, one-fourth cup cream 
or milk, salt and pepper. Be careful that corn does not scorch. 

WATERCRESS AND EGG SALAD 

Wash thoroughly, trim off roots, drain, and chill watercress. 
Arrange nests of the cress on individual salad plates. Cut four 
hard-cooked eggs in halves crosswise, in such a maimer that tops 
of whites will be notched. Remove yolks, rub through a sieve, 
season with salt, pepper and moisten with Boiled Salad Dressing to 
the consistency to handle. Shape in balls the original size, dip in 
finely chopped parsley and replace in whites. Dispose one "cup" 
in each nest, and just before serving marinate with French Dressing. 

RHUBARB PIE 

2 cups rhubarb. 2 tablespoons flour. 

^ cup sugar. ~ Few grains salt. 

1 egg shghtly beaten. Few grains nutmeg. 

Process: If rhubarb is young and tender it need not be peeled. 
Cut the stalks in half-inch pieces before measuring. Mix sugar, 
flour, egg, salt and nutmeg. Add to rhubarb, toss together until 
ingredients are well mixed. Turn into a pie pan lined with paste, 
heap rhubarb well in center, cover with a top crust and bake thirty- 
five minutes in a hot oven. (When rhubarb is older it may be 
scalded before using.) 



ThM Sunday ^2 Suiiday Dinncrs 49 

(menu 

Oyster Cocktails in Grape Fruit 

Planked Whitefish 

Mashed Potatoes Fricasseed Tomatoes 

Buttered Beets 

Alabama Salad 

Raisin Pie , Edam Cheese 

Boiled Coffee 

-« •- 1- 

OYSTER COCKTAIL IN GRAPE FRUIT 

Prepare the grape fruit in the usual way. Chill; just before 
serving place five Blue Point oysters in the cavity made by re- 
moving the tough portions in each half grape fruit. Season with 
lemon juice, salt, paprika and one or two drops of Tobasco sauce. 
Serve on beds of shaved ice. Garnish with foliage. 

PLANKED WHITEFISH 

Clean and split a three-pound whitefish. Lay, skin side down, 
on a hot, well-greased oak plank (one and one-half inches thick 
and two or more inches longer and wider than the fish). Brush 
fish over with soft butter and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Sur- 
round fish with a border of coarse salt to prevent plank from burning. 
Bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven, or place plank on broiler 
and broU twenty minutes under the gas flame. Remove to table 
covered with a sheet of brown paper, scrape off salt, wipe the edges 
of plank with a piece of cheese cloth wrung from hot water; spread 
fish with Maltre d'Hdtel Butter; surround with a border made of 
hot mashed potato, passing it through pastry bag and rose tube. 
Garnish with sprays of parsley and sliced lemon. Serve immediately. 



so 5^ Sunday Dinners ^""^ 



Third Sunday 



FRICASSEED TOMATOES 

Select firm, not over-ripe tomatoes. Cut in halves crosswise. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and a grating of onion; dredge with flour 
and saute in melted butter; brown first on cut side, then turn and 
finish cooking on the other. When soft, but not broken, pour over 
thin cream to almost cover. Let simmer until cream is slightly 
thickened. Remove to hot serving dish an4 pour cream around. 

ALABAMA SALAD 

Cut the hearts of celery in one-fourth inch pieces, there should, 
be two cups. Add one cup of Alabama pecan nut meats broken in 
quarters and one cup white cabbage cut in very fine shreds. Moisten 
with Crefim Dressing. Serve on a bed of cress. 

CREAM DRESSING > 

3 hard cooked egg yolks. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

1 teaspoon salt. Few drops onion juice or 

Few grains cayenne. 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

1 teaspoon mustard. chives. 

\)/2 cups thick cream. 
Process: Mash and rub the egg yolks through a sieve, add 
seasonings (except cayenne), then vinegar and chives. Whip cream 
until stiflf, and add a little at a time to first mixture, beating con- 
stantly. When all is used, sprinkle in a few grains cayenne or 
paprika. 

RAISIN PIE 

Ij^ cups seeded raisins cut in 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 halves. Juice and grated rind 1 lemon. 
J^ cup sugar. 1 cup water in which raisins were 

2 tablespoons flour. cooked. 

Few grains salt. 

Process: Cook raisins in boiling water to cover, until tender, 
drain, and mix with sugar, grated rind, flour and salt. Cool slightly. 
Turn mto pie-pan hned with Plain Paste, dot over with butter and 
pour over water. Cover with top crust made of Rich Paste and 
bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 



March 
Fourth Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 51 



(m( 



Cream of Lettuce 

Baked Ham — Hot Hoesekadish Sauce 

Sweet Potato Croquettes — Spinach with Eggs 

Grape Fruit Sa;lad 

Cheese Balls 

Rhubarb Tart — Cheese 

After Dinner Coffee 

H !► 

BAKED HAM 

Select a lean ham, weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds, 
cover with cold water or equal parts of water and sweet cider and 
let soak (skin side up) oyer night. Drain, scrape and trim off all 
objectionable parts about the knuckle. Cover flesh side with a 
dough made of floui: and water. Place in a dripping pan, skin side 
down. Bake in a hot oven until dough is a dark brown; reduce heat 
and bake very slowly five hours. Ham enclosed in dough needs no 
basting. Remove dough, turn ham over and peel off the skin. 
Sprinkle ham with sugar, cover with grated bread crumbs and bake 
twenty to thirty minutes. Remove from oven and decorate with 
cloves; place a paper frill on knuckle, garnish with sprays of parsley 
and lemon cut in fancy shapes. Serve hot or cold. 

HOT HORSERADISH SAUCE 

yi cup freshly grated horseradish^ J^ teaspoon salt. 
yi cup fine cracker crumbs. ]/i teaspoon pepper. 

Ij^ cups milk. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

3 tablespoons butter. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

^2 tablespoon grated onion. 
Process: Cook crumbs, horseradish and milk twenty minutes in 
double boiler. Add seasonings, vinegar and lemon juice slowly, 
stirring constantly. Add grated onion, reheat and serve. 



52 5 2 Sunday Dinners fZIi, Sunday 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 cups hot riced sweet potatoes. Few grains pepper. 

3 tablespoons butter. J^ cup chopped wahiut meats. 
J^ teaspoon salt. 1 egg well beaten. 
Process: Mix ingredients in the order given. If mixture is too 

dry add hot milk. Mold in cork-shape croquettes, roll in crumbs, 
then in egg, again in crumbs, and fry in deep hot Cottolene. Drain 
on brown paper and arrange around Baked Ham. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Cut three large grape fruit in halves crosswise, remove the pulp 
and keep in its original shape. Arrange in nests of white crisp 
lettuce heart leaves, dividing pulp in six portions. Strew one cup 
of English walnut meats, broken in fourths, over grape fruit. Mar- 
inate with French Dressing, but with less salt' and using paprika in 
place of cayenne, and lemon and grape fruit juice in place of vinegar. 

CHEESE BALLS 

Ij/^ cups grated cheese. H teaspoon mustard. 

1 tablespoon flour. Few grains cayenne. 

J^ teaspoon salt. Whites 3 eggs beaten stiff. 

I Process: Add flour and seasonings to cheese, fold in whites of 
eggs, shape in small balls. Roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry a 
golden brown in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper. 

RHUBARB TARTS 

If rhubarb is pink, young and tender, simply wash and cut in 
one-half inch pieces; there should be two and one-half cups. 
Cover with boiling water and heat to boiling point; boil five minutes. 
Do not allow it to lose its shape. Drain off all the juice, sprinkle 
rhubarb with three-fourths cup sugar. Sift over two tablespoons 
flour and one-fourth teaspoon salt, dot over with one tablespoon 
butter and a grating of orange rind. Mix well and turn into a 
pie pan lined with Rich Paste. Arrange strips of pastry, lattice- 
work fashion, across the top of pie and bake thirty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



cV^r// 



Let hunger move thy appetite, 
And not savory sauces. 

— Shalcespeare. 





*. 







54 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



April 

First Sunday 



QUenu 

Strawberry Cocktails 

Chicken Bouillon Chantillt 

Fricassee of Chicken with Waffles 

Spinach with Eggs 

Prune and Pecan Nut Salad 

Apricot Marmalade Mold 

CocoANUT Cake 

Coffee 



CHICKEN BOUILLON CHANTILLY 

Pour six cups of hot, , well-seasoned Chicken Bouillon into hot 
bouillon cups. Drop on top of each portion one tablespoon whipped 
cream deKcately seasoned with salt, pepper and a few grains cayenne. 
Sprinkle cream with paprika or finely chopped chives. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

Dress, singe, clean and cut two young chickens in pieces for 
serving. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour, 
brown richly in equal parts of Cottolene and butter, turning often 
that pieces may be evenly browned. Then cover with boiling water 
to which add a bit of bay leaf, one-half teaspoon peppercorns, a 
spray of parsley, six slices carrot and three slices onion. Cover and 
simmer until chicken is tender (from one to one and one-quarter 
hours). Remove chicken from stock, cover and keep warm; strain 
stock; there should be two cups. Melt four tablespoons butter in a 
sauce pan, add four tablespoons flour, stir to a paste, then gradually 
pour on the two cups hot stock, stirring constantly; let simmer ten 
minutes. Remove from range, add one cup of hot cream and the 
yolks of two eggs slightly beaten. Reheat chicken in sauce (do not 
allow sauce to boil after adding yolks). Serve with WaflBies. 



-*— 1> 

First Sunday 5 ^ Sufiday Dtfiners 55 

SPINACH WITH DEVILED EGGS 

1 peck spinach. y^ teaspoon salt. 

yi pound bacon. J^ teaspoon pepper. 

Salt, pepper. 3^ teaspoon finely chopped pars- 
H cup butter. ley. 

Few grains nutmeg. J^ teaspoon grated onion. 

5 hard-cooked eggs. J/^ cup minced ham. 
Cream Salad Dressing. ' 

Process: Cook spinach in the usual way. Cook the bacon with 
spinach to give it flavor. When spinach is tender, remove bacon, 
drain spinach and chop fine. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 
Add butter, mix well and pack into 'an oval mold. Keep hot over 
hot water, cut eggs in halves lengthwise, remove yolks and rub 
through a sieve. Add ham, salt, pepper, parsley and onion. juice. 
Moisten with Cream Salad Dressing to bind mixture together. Re- 
fill halves of eggs with this mixture, heaping it pyramid-like. Turn 
mold of spinach on hot serving dish and surround with stuffed eggs. 

PRUNE AND NUT SALAD 

Buy very select prunes for this purpose (tins holding one or two 
pounds are best), cook prunes in the usual way, letting the liquor 
evaporate during the latter part of cooking. Prunes should not 
be as weU done as when serving them as sauce. Drain prunes from 
the liquor and chill them. Remove the stones carefully, cut prunes 
in five pieces lengthwise. Cut pecan nut meats in four pieces 
lengthwise. Mix prunes and nut meats, sprinkle with salt . and 
paprika. For one-half pound prunes and one-fourth pound shelled 
nut meats allow one cup whipping cream. Whip cream until solid, 
season with one-half teaspoon each salt and paprika; add two table- 
spoons lemon juice and one and one-half tablespoons Sherry wine 
slowly, while beating constantly. Mix two-thirds of the cream with 
the pinines and nuts. Arrange the heart leaves of lettuce on cold, 
individual salad plates, pile some of the mixture in each and mask 
with remaining whipped cream. Arrange three pieces of prunes on 
top of each portion, radiating from center, and place a cherry or 
strawberry on top of each. 



56 5^ Sunday Dinners F.>7/s»«rfay 

STEAMED SNOW BALLS 

(For recipe, see page 16S.) 

COCOANUT CAKE 

yi cup Cottolene. 5 teaspoons baking powder. 

2 cups sugar. J^ teaspoon salt. 

3 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

3 cups flour. y^ teaspoon each lemon and va- 

nilla. 
Process: Cream Cottolene, add one cup sugar gradually, stirring 
constantly. Beat yolks thick and light, add remaining cup sugar 
gradually, continue beating. Combine mixtures. Mix and sift 
flour, baking powder and salt. Add to first mixture alternately 
with milk. Add vanilla and fold in the whites of eggs beaten stiff 
and dry. Turn into two well-greased, square cake pans and bake 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Spread one layer thickly with 
Boiled Frosting, sprinkle heavily with fresh grated cocoanut, cover 
with remaining layer. Spread top and sides with frosting, and 
sprinkle with cocoanut before frosting glazes. 

BOILED FROSTING 

2 cups sugar. . 3^ cup water. 

J^ teaspoon cream of tartar. Whites 2 eggs. 

Process: Mix sugar, cream of tartar and water in a sauce pan. 
Place on range and stir until mixture begins to boil. When syrup 
drops from the wooden spoon thick like honey, remove from range 
and add eight tablespoons of the syrup to the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs, beating constantly. Return remaining syrup to range, con- 
tinue cooking until syrup spins a thread at least five inches in length. 
Pour syrup in a thin stream onto first mixture and beat until cool 
and sHghtly glazed on side of bowl. Spread thickly on cake. 



st^ Sunday 5^ SuTiduy Dinncrs 57 

QUetttt 

Smoked Sturgeon CanapI! 

Clam Broth Buttered Wafers 

Broiled Finnan Haddie 

Potatoes on the Half Shell 

' Peggy's Sour Cabbage 

Cheese Souffle 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Coffee 

H -^ 

SMOKED STURGEON CANAPE 

Cut stale white bread in one-third inch slices, trim off crust and 
cut slices in crescents or triangles — then saute a golden brown in 
butter. Spread with Anchovy paste or with French mustard, then 
arrange flaked smoked sturgeon' over canapes. Sprinkle thickly 
with finely chopped oUves and pimentos. Garnish each with a 
rolled fillet of Anchovy. Dispose each canap6 on a bread and butter 
plate covered with a paper doily and garnish with sprays of parsley. 

CLAM BOUILLON 

1 peck of clams (in the shells). Salt, pepper. 

3 cups cold water. Whipped cream. 

Process: Wash and scrub clams with a stiff brush, changing the 
water until no sand is seen in bottom of vessel. Put in a kettle, add 
cold water, cover closely and bring water gradually to boiling point, 
steam until all the shells are opened. Remove clam with shells, 
strain broth through double cheese-cloth, season and serve hot in 
hot bouillon cups. Drop a spoonful of whipped cream on top of 
each service and sprinkle with paprika. 



58 52 Sunday Dinners ■■ ifJJL 



Second Sunday 



BROILED FINNAN HADDIE 

Wash the fish thoroughly; lay in a dripping pan, flesh side down; 
cover with cold water and let soak one hour. Drain; cover with hot 
water, let soak fifteen minutes. Drain again and wipe dry; brush 
over with soft butter and broU fifteen minutes over a slow fire or 
some distance from the flame if cooked with gas. Remove to hot 
serving platter and spread with Maltre d'Hdtel Butter. 

POTATOES ON THE HALF SHELL 

Select smooth, large, uniform sized potatoes; wash and scrub 
them carefully with a brush. Bake and cut them in halves length- 
wise; scoop out the pulp from shells, being careful not to break them. 
Press pnlp through a ricer; season with salt, pepper, butter and hot 
cream. Add one teaspoon finely chopped parsley (to five potatoes), 
whip mixture until fluffy, refill shells with mixture, using pastry bag 
and rose tube. Place in oven until heated through. Dispose 
around Finnan Haddie, interspersed with sprays of parsley. 

PEGGY'S SOUR CABBAGE 

Select a small, firm head of white cabbage; cut in quarters, re- 
move the tough stalk and shave crosswise as fine as possible. Put 
cabbage in a large frying pan, cover with water, cover closely and 
cook until cabbage is tender (from forty to eighty minutes). Season 
with salt the last fifteen minutes of cooking. Draia and add one- 
third to one-half cup of butter, toss cabbage until well buttered, 
saute until some of the cabbage is delicately browned. Season with 
pepper, and add vinegar to taste. Serve hot. 

' CHEESE SOUFFLfi 

2 tablespoons butter. J^ teaspoon paprika. 

S tablespoons flour. J^ cup scalded milk. 

3^ teaspoon salt. J^ cup grated American cheese. 

}4 teaspoon ground mustard. Yolks 3 eggs beaten thick and light. 

Whites 3 eggs beaten stiff. 
Process: Melt butter in a saucepan; add flour mixed with sea- 
sonings, stir to a smooth paste and add gradually scalded milk. 



sf^md Sunday 5^ Sutiday Dinmrs 59 

stirring constantly. Add grated cheese and when cheese is melted 
remove from range; add yolks of eggs and continue beating, then cut 
and fold in the whites of eggs. Turn mixture into a well-greased, 
one-quart baking dish and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 
Serve at once. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

2 cups flour. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

^ teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons Cottolene. 

1 cup thin cream. 

Process: Sift together flour, salt and baking powder. Rub 
shortening in with tips of fingers. Add cream, mix with a knife to a 
soft dough. Turn on a floured board, knead slightly and divide the 
dough into two equal parts. Pat and roll each piece to one-half 
inch thickness; lay one piece in a buttered jelly cake pan, brush over 
with soft butter and place remaining piece on top. Bake in a hot 
oven fifteen minutes. Remove from oven; invert cake on a hot 
serving platter. Remove bottom layer (which is now the top). 
Spread with soft butter and add a layer of berries prepared as 
directed hereafter. Sift generously with bar sugar, replace remain- 
ing cake, cover with berries, sprinkle with sugar, mask with whipped 
cream sweetened and flavored with orange extract. 

STRAWBERRY MIXTUBE 

Wash two quarts strawberries; hull and cut each berry in half. 
Prepare a syrup by boiling together two cups sugar and one-half cup 
water four minutes, cool and pour syrup over berries, or sprinkle 
raw sugar over berries and let stand one hour. Lift the berries from 
syrup and place between layer and on top of short cake. Strain 
syrup into a pitcher or bowl and pass with each portion of short cake. 



60 ^2 Sunday Dinners mrd Sunday 

QTlenu 

Cream of Asparagus 

Breamed Mutton Chops — Sauce Signora 

Baked Bananas — Sultana Sauce 

Fried Whole Potatoes Lettuce Hearts 

Steamed Graham Pudding — Sherry Sauce 

Cafe Noir 

H— K 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS 

Wipe and trim chops, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dredge with 
flour. Dip in egg diluted with cold water or milk (allowing two 
tablespoons to each egg), then in fine bread crumbs, repeat if not well 
coated with crumbs. Fry in deep hot Cottolene about ten minutes. 
Drain on brown paper and serve in a border of hot Mashed Potatoes 
with Green Pepper, or in a nest of Green Peas dressed with Mattre 
d'H6tel Butter. 

SAUCE SIGNORA 

Cook two tablespoons of chopped, lean, raw ham in one-fourth 
cup butter until Ughtly browned, add one-fourth cup flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, and stir until well blended, then add one and one- 
half cups of Brown Stock and one cup of Chili Sauce. Heat to 
boiling point, stirring constantly. Reduce heat and simmer ten 
minutes. This sauce may be strained or served without straining. 
Care must be taken that ham is not overcooked. 

BAKED BANANAS WITH SULTANA SAUCE 

6 bananas. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup Sultana raisins. Few grains salt. 

2^ cups boiling water. 34 cup Sherry wine. 

1 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon cornstarch or two teaspoons Arrowroot. 



TMrd Sunday 5^ Sunduy Dtnuers 61 

Process: With a sharp knife open and peel down one section of 
each banana, carefully loosen the pulp from the rest of the skin; 
remove pulp and scrape lightly with a silver knife, removing all the 
coarse threads. Replace the pulp in its original shape in the skins. 
Arrange the bananas in an agate dripping pan and bake in a moderate 
oven until the skins are black and the pulp is soft (from ten to 
fifteen minutes). Remove pulp from skins to serving platter, being 
careful to preserve their shape. Curve them slightly and pour over 

SULTANA SAUCE 

Pick over raisins, cover them with water and cook until raisins 
are tender. Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt, add slowly to raisins 
and water, stirring constantly. Cook slowly twenty minutes; add 
butter, lemon juice and wine. Reheat and serve. 

FRIED WHOLE POTATOES 

Select small potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and parboil 
in boihng salted water ten minutes. Drain dry and fry a golden 
brown in deep hot Cottolene (time required about twelve minutes). 
Fat should not be hot enough to brown potatoes until the last five 
minutes of cooking, otherwise potatoes will not be cooked throughout. 
Drain on brown paper, sprinkle with salt and serve at once. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. 3^ teaspoon soda. 

3^ cup N. O. Molasses. 1 teaspoon salt. 

J^ cup milk. J^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 egg well beaten. J^ teaspoon cloves. 

13^ cups Graham flour. J^ teaspoon mace. 

1 cup dates stoned and cut in pieces. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add molasses, milk and egg. Mix 
and sift the dry ingredients, add dates and stir into first mixture, 
beat thoroughly. Turn into a buttered tube mold, cover and steam 
two and one-half hours. Serve with Sherry Sauce (recipe Page 130). 



62 ^2 Sunday Dinners j^J,, 



Fourth Sunday 



Qfaenu 



Spanish Soup 

Baked Halibut 

Potatoes a l'Aukoka 

CoKN Fritters Cabbage Relish 

Stewed Rhubarb with Pineapple and Raisins 

Old Fashioned Marble Cake 



SPANISH SOUP 

4 cups Brown Stock. 5 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups tomato pulp 2 tablespoons freshly grated 

1 large, green, finely chopped , horseradish. 

pepper. J^ tablespoon Worcestershire 
1 medium-sized onion, finely Sauce. 

chopped. Salt, pepper and cayenne, or 

4 tablespoons butter. A few drops Tobasco Sauce. 
3^ cup hot cooked rice. 

Process: Cook pepper and onion in butter five minutes. Add 
flour, stir until well blended and delicately browned, then add 
gradually stock and tomato pulp; let simmer twenty minutes. Rub 
through a sieve and season highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne or 
Tobasco. Before serving add Worcestershire, horseradish and rice. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

I Wipe a two-pound slice of halibut. Arrange six or eight thin 
slices of fat salt pork in bottom of dripping pan, slice an onion thinly 
over pork, add a bit of bay leaf and arrange halibut over onion. 
Spread halibut evenly with a butter paste made of four tablespoons 
butter worked to a cream with three tablespoons flour. Season with 
one-half teaspoon salt and a few grains cayenne. Over butter paste 



ptilL Sunday $2 Suftclay Dttiners 63 

sprinkle thickly-butterpd cracker crumbs, and arrange alternately 
strips of pimento and thin slices of bacon over crumbs. Cover with 
a buttered paper and bake slowly one hour in a moderate oven. 
Remove paper the last fifteen minutes of cooking to brown the 
crumbs and bacon delicately. Remove to hot serving platter and 
garnish with shredded potatoes, sliced lemon and parsley. 

POTATOES AURORA 

Cut cold, boiled potatoes in one-fourth inch cubes. There 
should be sufficient to fill three cups. Reheat potatoes in two cups 
of thin white sauce, turn into hot serving dish. Remove the shells 
from four hard-cooked eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, remove 
the yolks .^ Cut whites in rings and arrange rings around edge of po- 
tatoes; press the yolks through a ricer over potatoes. Sprinkle the 
rings with finely chopped parsley. Serve at once. 

CORN FRITTERS 

1 can corn, chopped fine. 1 teaspoon sugar, 

1 cup flour. 2 teaspoons salt. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 34 teaspoon white pepper. 

2 eggs. 

Process: Add dry ingredients, sifted together, to corn; add 
yolks well beaten; then fold in whites beaten until stiff. Fry as 
griddle cakes; or dip a tajblespoon into deep hot Cottolene, drain 
well, then take up a spoonful of the corn mixture, drop into hot 
Cottolene, pushing it off spoon into hot fat with a spatula. Fry a 
golden brown. Drain on brown paper and serve immediately. 

CABBAGE RELISH 

Remove the wilted and coarse outside leaves from one small, 
soHd head of white, new cabbage (Southern), cut off stalk, cut head 
in quarters, cut out stalk from each quarter and chop cabbage very 
fine. Add one medium-sized Bermuda onion, finely chopped. 
Cover with ice water and let stand until crisp. Drain thoroughly 
and mix with Relish Dressing. Serve in lemon baskets, sprinkle 
with finely chopped chives, green pepper or parsley. 



64 5 2 Sunday Dinners FouMSu«day 

RELISH DRESSING 

1 teaspoon mustard. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

13^ teaspoons salt. 1 egg yolk. 

3^ tablespoon flour. }/3 cup hot vinegar. 

1 tablespoon sugar. y^ teaspoon celery seed. 

Few grains cayenne. % cup thick cream. 

Process: Mix the ingredients, except celery seed, in the order 
given. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
coats the spoon; strain and add celery seed. Chill and add to 
cabbage. 

STEWED RHUBARB 

Wash and trim off ends of two pounds tender rhubarb; do not 
peel. Cut rhubarb in one-inch pieces. Put into baking dish and 
sprinkle generously with sugar, add just enough water to prevent 
rhubarb from burning. Cover and bake in oven very slowly until 
tender but not broken. (Slow cooking preserves its color.) One 
cup of Sultana raisins may be cooked with rhubarb. They must, 
however, be first picked over, stems removed, then covered with 
boiling water, drained, then covered again with boiling water and 
cooked until soft. Arrange a layer of rhubarb in baking dish, then 
a sprinkle of raisins and sugar and thus continue until all are used. 
Finish cooking as directed in the foregoing. Serve very cold. 

MARBLE CAKE 

}/^ cup Cottolene. J4 teaspoon nutmeg. 

1 cup sugar. J^ teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. 1^ cups flour. 

}/^ cup milk. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

3^ teaspoon cinnamon. 1 tablespoon molasses. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, yolks of eggs 
beaten until thick and light, flour sifted with baking powder, alter- 
nately with milk. Fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn 
one-third of this batter into a bowl and add to it molasses and spices. 
Pour into well-greased pan, alternating light and dark mixtures to 
give it the "marbled" appearance. 

Bake forty to forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 










^ If you are an artist in the kitchen 
you will always be esteemed. ' ' 
— Elizabeth in Her German 
Garden. 



i C- 







I 5 






66 5-^ Sunday Dinners fm Sunday 

AsPAKAGus Soup — Saltines 

Baked Bluefish a la Creole 

Chateau Potatoes Steingless Beans with Bacon 

Cheese and Pimento Salad 

Frozen Strawberries 

Corn-Starch Loaf Cake with Maple Frosting 

CAFfi NoiR — Tea Frappe 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

3 cups White Stock. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 bunch (or 1 can) asparagus. 4 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups cold water. IJ^ cups scalded milk. 
2 slices onion. J/^ cup hot cream. 

Process: Wash, scrape and cut asparagus in one-inch pieces, 
reserve the tips. Cover with boiling salted water, cook ten minutes; 
drain, add stock and onion and cook until tender, rub through a 
sieve. Melt butter in a sauce pan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste; 
remove from fire and add first mixture slowly, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper, add hot rmlk and cream, continue 
stirring. Cook tips in boiling salted water until tender, drain. 
Turn soup into hot soup tureen, add tips and serve. If canned 
asparagus is used, drain from liquor, rinse, reserve tips and follow 
directions given in the foregoing. 

BLUEFISH A LA CREOLE 

Remove bones from a fresh, three-pound bluefish. Place on a 
well-buttered fish sheet, laid in a dripping pan. Sprinkle with salt 
and paprika. Cook in a hot oven twenty-five minutes, basting often 
with melted butter or sweet dripping. Remove to hot serving 
platter and pour a Creole Sauce around fish. Sprinkle fish with 



fZ Sunday $2 Sunday Dinners 67 

buttered crumbs, set platter on a board and place in oven to brown 
crumbs. Garnish with slices of lemon dipped in chopped parsley. 

CREOLE SAUCE 
(For recipe see Page 122.) 

CHATEAU POTATOES 

Wash, pare and cook (almost soft) one-half dozen medium-size 
potatoes. Drain perfectly dry, cool and cut them in quarters, trim 
them in the shape of small gherkins Wash them in cold water, 
then put them in a frying pan, reheat in boiling water. Drain and 
add four tablespoons butter; shake the pan until potatoes are well 
buttered and a golden brown color. Remove carefully with a 
skimmer to hot serving dish, and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

STRINGLESS BEANS WITH BACON 

Cut three thin slices of bacon in shreds crosswise, try out in a 
frying pan. Cook until tender two cups green, stringless beans and 
three or four small new onions, in boiling salted water. Drain and 
add to bacon, mix well, add salt (if necessary) and pepper; turn into 
a hot serving dish. - 

CHEESE AND PIMENTO SALAD 

(For recipe see Page 26.) 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 

4 cups thin cream. Few grains salt. 

3 cups thick cream. 2 cups strawberry juice and 

2 cups milk. pulp. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

}/i cup water. Strawberries. 

Process: Cook water and sugar together three minutes. Cool 
and add to cream and milk. Add a sprinkle of salt. Turn into 
freezer and when half frozen add lemon juice and strawberry pulp. 
Finish freezing. Let stand an hour or two to ripen. Serve in cone 
shape and place a large, unhuUed strawberry in top of each cone. 



68 



52 Sunday Dinners 



May 

First Sunday 



CORN STARCH LOAF CAKE 

^ cup Cottolene. 2 cups flour. 

2 cups fine sugar. 13^ tablespoons baking powder. 

1 cup milk. Whites 5 eggs beaten stiff. 

1 cup corn starch. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Mix and sift flour, corn starch, baking powder and salt; 
add alternately to first mixture with milk, add vanilla, then cut 
and fold in whites of eggs. Turn mixture into two well-greased, 
brick-shaped bread pans and bake forty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. Spread with Maple Frosting (see Page 103) and stick with 
blanched and shredded almonds slightly toasted. 





seZd Sunday 5 2 S ufiday Difimrs 69 



(m< 



Cream of Spinach Croutons 

Young Pigeons (Stall Fed) Stuffed and Braised 

Mashed Potatoes Asparagus with Butter Sauce / 

Spinach Salad 

Cottage Pudding with Strawberries 

Coffee 

^ : ^ 

CREAM OF SPINACH 

y^ peck spinach. 2 cups milk. 

6 cups cold water. 2 slices onion, 

Yi small bay leaf. 3 tablespoons flour. 

IJ/^ teaspoons salt. 3^ ctip heavy cream. 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. Cayenne pepper and celery salt. 

Process: Cook spinach in water thirty minutes. Drain, chop, 
and rub through sieve. Scald milk with onion and bay leaf. 
Melt Cottolene in sauce-pan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste, pour 
on slowly scalded milk (first removing onion and bay leaf), stirring 
constantly. Add seasonings, spinach pulp; cook five minutes and 
serve with cream, whipped stiff. Sprinkle each portion with finely 
chopped parsley. 

YOUNG PIGEONS STUFFED AND BRAISED 

.Clean, stuff and truss six young pigeons. Arrange them in a 
stew pan or Dutch oven. Add one quart boiling water; add three 
blades celery, cut in pieces, and three slices of onion, a small bit of 
bay leaf and one-half teaspoon peppercorns. Cover closely and 
simmer (in the oven if Dutch oven is used) slowly, until birds are 
tender (about two hours according to age of birds). Remove from 
casserole, cool and spread with soft butter. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, and dredge with flour. Strain liquor from casserole. Try 
out fat salt pork in vessel, and brown birds richly in the pork fat, 
turning often that they may be evenly browned. Make a sauce 



70 52 Sunday Dinners 'JeLdSumay 

of the strained stock. Make shallow, boat-shape croutons of stale 
bread, fry them a golden brown in deep hot Cottolene, drain on 
brown paper and arrange a bird in each boat. Garnish with parsley. 

STUFFING FOR PIGEONS 

1 cup hot, riced potato. 1 tablespoon butter. 

J^ teaspoon salt. J^ cup soft stale bread crumbs 

yi teaspoon pepper. soaked in water then 

1 teaspoon finely chopped wrung in a napkin, 

chives. 1 egg yolk. 

Few grains poultry seasonings. 
Process: Mix ingredients in the order given and fill body of 
pigeons. 

ASPARAGUS WITH BUTTER SAUCE 

Untie the bunches, wash and remove scales. Cut off the hard 
part of spears as far up as they will snap. Retie, and cook in boiUng 
salted water until tender (about fifteen minutes), leaving the tips 
out of water the first ten minutes of cooking. Drain, remove istrings. 
Arrange in hot serving dish and pour over two tablespoons melted 
butter (for each bunch), sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

SPINACH SALAD 

Pick over and wash in several waters or until no sand is left in 
bottom of bowl, one-half peck spinach. Drain and cook in its own 
juice and the water that clings to the leaves (if spinach is old, cook 
it in plenty of water), until soft. Drain dry as possible and chop 
finely. Season with salt, pepper and Tarragon vinegar. Cut 
bacon in shreds crosswise, then cut shreds in small bits. Saute 
them until delicately browned and crisp, skim them from the fat, 
add them to spinach, add one tablespoon of bacon fat. Butter 
lightly small Dairole molds and pack solidly with spinach. Chill, 
unmold and arrange on thin slices of cold, boiled ham, tongue or 
Bologna sausage, trimmed in circular pieces a trifle larger than 
mold of spinach. Arrange each portion in a nest of parsley or 
cress, and fill depression on top of spinach with Mayonnaise or 
Sauce Tartare (for recipe see Page 84). 



ThM Sunday S^ Suitduy Dintier s 7i 

(menu 

Ckeam of Aspabagus 

Bhaised Calf's Liver 

Rice au Gratin Carrots and Turnips in Cream Sauce 

Asparagus Salad 

Custard Pie Edam Cheese 

Coffee 

Iced Tea 
4 _ ^ 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS 

(For recipe see Page 66.) 

BRAISED CALF'S LIVER 

Wipe liver and skewer into shape, if necessary. Draw small 
lardoons through the liver, in parallel rows, leaving each lardoon 
extend one-half inch above surface. Place liver in a casserole or 
Dutch oven, surround with remnants of lardoons. Sprinkle with 
salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Surround with one-third cup 
each of carrots, onion and celery, cut in small cubes; add one-half 
teaspoon peppercorns, six cloves, one spray parsley, a bit of bay 
leaf and two cups hot Brown Stock or water. Cover closely and 
cook in a slow oven two hours. Remove cover the last half hour of 
cooking that liver may brown richly. Remove liver to serving 
platter, set aside in a warm place. Strain liquor in casserole and 
use for making a BroAvn Sauce. Pour sauce around liver and serve. 
Braised liver may be served cold, thinly sliced. 

RICE AU GRATIN 

IJ^ cups steamed or boiled rice. J^ lb. grated cheese. 

1 tablespoon salt. Cayenne. 

13^ tablespoons butter. Milk. 

Buttered cracker crumbs. 



72 , 5 2 Sunday Dinners jhld Sunday 

Process: When steaming or boiling the rice, allow one table- 
spoon of salt for seasoning. Butter a baking dish and cover with a 
layer of rice, dot over with some of the butter. Sprinkle with a thin 
layer of cheese and a slight sprinkle cayenne; repeat alternate layers 
until rice and cheese are used. Pour on milk to half the depth of 
baking dish, cover with buttered cracker crumbs and bake in oven 
until cheese melts and crumbs are brown. 

CARROTS AND TURNIPS IN CREAM SAUCE 

Scrub, scrape and cut carrots in small cubes. Wash, pare and 
cut purple-top turnips the same. (There should be one and one- 
half cups of each.) Cover each (in separate vessels) with boiling 
water and cook until tender; add salt the last half hour of cooking. 
Drain well, toss together and reheat in one and one-half cups Thin 
White Sauce. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Cook asparagus in the usual way, drain and slip three or four 
spears through an onion ring just large enough to hold them. Ar- 
range these fagots in nests of crisp lettuce heart leaves. Just before 
serving pour over French Dressing to which has been added one 
tablespoon of finely chopped chives. A band of red or green pepper 
may be used in place of the onion ring. Canned asparagus should 
first be drained from the liquor in the can then rinsed with cold 
water. Chilled and served as directed in the foregoing. 

CUSTARD PIE 

Line a deep, perforated pie tin with Plain or Rich Paste. For 
filling, beat three eggs slightly, add one-fourth cup sugar, pne-eighth 
teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon nutmeg, and pour over slowly 
two cups scalded milk, stirring constantly. Bake in a hot oven at 
first, to set the crust or rim, then reduce the heat afterwards; as this 
is a combination of eggs and milk it should be finished in a slow oven. 



Fmrth Sunday 5^ Sunduy Dinfiers ■ 73 

QfTlentt 

Consomme — Bread Sticks 

Boiled Corned Beef with Vegetables 

Dandelion Salad 

Frozen Strawberries 

Spanish Layer Cake 

Cafe; Noir — Iced Tea 
H J- 

CONSOMME WITH BREAD STICKS 

(For recipe see Page 149.) 

BOILED CORNED BEEF WITH VEGETABLES 

Select five or six pounds from the plate or the brisket; wash 
carefully in cold water, drain; place in kettle and cover with boiling 
water, let boil five minutes and — if very briny — drain, rinse off 
scum with hot water and again cover with boiling water; heat to 
boiling point |and simmer until meat is tender (about six hours). 
Remove beef from liquor, keep covered in a warm place. Skim 
off some of the fat from hquor. Add carrots washed, scraped and 
cut in quarters. Let cook fifteen minutes, then add small white 
onions and turnips pared and cut in quarters, one head white cab- 
bage cut in quarters (stalk cut out). Wash, pare and cut uniform- 
sized potatoes in quarters, parboil five minutes, then drain afid add 
to other ingredients. Cook beets in a separate vessel. When 
vegetables are soft, arrange meat in center of hot serving platter and 
surround with carrots, turnips, onions and cabbage. Sprinkle 
vegetables with finely chopped parsley, serve beets in separate dish. 
Pass horseradish, mustard and vinegar. 

DANDELION SALAD 

Gather the dandelion when young and tender. That which is 
cultivated is well bleached and very tender. Wash thoroughly in 



74 $2 Sunday Dinners ""'' 



Fourth Sunday 



several waters, cut oflF the roots and outside leaves. Drain dry on 
a cloth or in a wire basket. Arrange in salad bowl. Cut thin sweet 
bacon in tiny shreds crosswise and saute in frying pan until crisp; 
sprinkle bacon over dandelion. To the fat in pan (there should 
be one-third cup), add one-fourth cup vinegar diluted with two 
tablespoons water. Heat to boiling point and pour over dandelions; 
toss leaves with a fork until well mixed with dressing; serve at once. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES— No. 2 

2 quarts cream. Few grains salt. 

2 cups sugar. 2 cups strawberry juice and 

pulp. 
Process:- Wash and hull strawberries (about three boxes); 
sprinkle with one; cup sugar, cover closely and set aside in a cool 
place for two hours." Mash and squeeze berries through cheese 
cloth. Mix remaining cup sugar and salt with cream; turn into 
freezer and, when half frozen, add strawberries and finish freezing. 
Serve with Strawberry Sauce. 

STRAWBEERY SAUCE 

1 cup sugar. ]/i cup water. 

2 cups strawberry pulp. 
Process: Make a syrup by boiling water with sugar three 
minutes (after mixture begins to boil), cool slightly and add straw- 
berry pulp. Chill thoroughly and serve. 

SPANISH LAYER CAKE 

3^ cup Cottolene. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Yolks 2 eggs. J^ teaspoon cloves. 

14, cup milk. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

V/i cups pastry flour. Whites 2 eggs. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, spices and salt; add to 
first mixture alternately with milk. Cut and fold in stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in two well-greased, square, layer cake pans. 
Spread with a thick layer of raspberry between layers. Cover top 
with frosting or dredge with powdered sugar. 



May 

Fifth Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 75 



Qflflentt 



Cbeam of Rice Soup 

Flank Steak Stuffed and Braised 

Boiled Rice Dandelion Greens with Bacon 

Asparagus Salad 

Strawberry Short Cake 

Cafe Noir 



CREAM OF RICE SOUP 

1 cup rice, well washed. 2 cups hot cream or milk. 

1^2 quarts cold water. J^ cup butter. 

1 onion sliced. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 green pepper cut in shreds. Salt, cayenne and nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

Process: Heat water to boiling, season with salt and add rice, 
onion and green pepper (discarding seeds and veins). Cook until 
rice is soft; rub through a sieve. Melt butter in a saucepan, add 
flour, stir to a smooth paste, add cream slowly, stirring constantly. 
Add seasonings and cook over hot water ten minutes. Combine 
with rice mixture, continue cooking five minutes. Turn into hot 
soup tureen and sprinkle over with parsley. 

FLANK STEAK STUFFED AND BRAISED 

Select a flank steak weighing about two and one-half pounds. 
Have the butcher peel off the superfluous fat and tissue and score 
both sides diagonally in opposite directions. Remove the steak 
from paper when it cpmes from market and lay it flat on meat board, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spread over it a thin layer of stuflBng, 
(see Page 154), roll lengthwise, very compactly, sew the overlapping 



76 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



May 

Fifth Sunday 



edge securely, also the ends. Sprinkle roll with salt, pepper and 
dredge with flour. Place meat in pan with enough Cottolene to 
brown it richly, turning roll until it is richly browned all over. Then 
remove to Dutch oven or casserole; rinse dripping pan with a little 
boiling water, pour over meat and surround with two cups stewed 
and strained tomato pulp, one onion thinly sliced, one green pepper 
shredded (after removing seeds and veins), two sprays parsley, the 
half of a small bay leaf and two tablespoons Worcestershire sauce. 
Cover closely, place in oven and cook meat very slowly about three 
to four hours. Remove meat to serving platter. Dilute four table- 
spoons flour with cold water to the consistency to pour, add to sauce 
in pan, stir until well blended, season with salt and pepper; let 
simmer ten minutes, then strain around meat. Garnish with sprays 
of parsley or cress. 

DANDELION GREENS 

Remove the roots, carefully pick over (discarding all tough and 
wilted leaves) and wash dandelion leaves in several waters; to the 
last water add salt to free leaves from insects and vermin. It 
will require one peck of leaves to serve a family of six. 
Cook leaves in plenty of boiling salted water until tender; drain 
at once and chop fine. Dress with butter and pepper; cut thin 
slicesiof bacon in shreds crosswise, try it out and pour over dande- 
lions. (There should be one-third cup bacon fat.) The shreds of 
bacon are an attractive garnish; hard-cooked eggs may also be used 
as a garnish. Cut them in eighths or rings. Vinegar is sometimes 
added. Serve hot. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 



(For recipe see Page 59.) 



cJ^^^T^ 



Nothing lovelier can be found 
In woman, than to study house good. 
— Milton. 




MM&^ 







.' ^f'^^i 




78 ^2 Sunday Dinners fIZ Sunday 

Consomme Browned Cka.ckers 

Lamb Chops Bbeaded — Maitke d'Hotel Butter 

New Potatoes Chive Sauce 

Green Peas 

June Salad 

Cherry Pie 

Iced Tea — Cafe Noir 



CONSOMMfi PRINCESS 

Add to Consomme small green peas and tiny cubes of cold 
cooked breast of chicken. (For recipe for Consomme see Page 149.) 

BROWNED CRACKERS 

Split crackers, arrange them in a dripping pan, place in a moder- 
ate oven until crisp and delicately browned. 

LAMB CHOPS BREADED 

Prepare loin or French chops as for broiling. Dip in crumbs, 
egg (diluted with cold water, allowing two tablespoons water to 
each egg), and in crumbs, and fry in deep hot Cottolene six to eight 
minutes. Drain on brown paper and spread with Mattre d'H6tel 
Butter. 

NEW POTATOES WITH CHIVE SAUCE 

Scrape ofiF the skin, remove the "eyes" with a sharp pointed 
knife and scrub them with a vegetable brush, rinse thoroughly and 
put in sauce pan, add boiling water to cover; season with salt, cover 
and cook until soft, drain. If small, serve whole; if large, cut them 
in one-half inch cubes and reheat in Chive Sauce. 



ilZ Sunday 52 Sunday Dinners 79 

CHIVE SAUCE 

To Cream Sauce (see Page 151) add one tablespoon finely chopped 
Chives. 

GREEN PEAS 

Cook peas in boiling water. Use just enough water to pre- 
vent them from burning. Add salt fifteen minutes before removing 
them from fire. Season with butter and pepper. 

JUNE SALAD 

Remove stones from red and pink Ox-heart cherries and cut 
them in halves lengthwise. Remove the pulp from oranges and 
cut in inch cubes; peel bananas and cut in one-half inch cubes. Use 
equal quantities of each and marinate with French Dressing No. 2. 
Serve in nests of heart lettuce leaves and mask with Mayonnaise. 

FRENCH DRESSING No. 2 

34 teaspoon salt. Y% teaspoon paprika. 

4 tablespoons Olive oil. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Process: Put seasoning in small bowl, add oil slowly, stirring 
constantly; add lemon juice slowly, continue beating until all is 
used. Chill, beat again and turn over fruit. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

J^ teaspoon salt. 1}^ tablespoons lemon juice, or 

Few grains cayenne. 5€ tablespoon each of vinegar 

Yolks 2 eggs. and lemon juice. 

y^ cup Olive oil. 

Pbocess: Put seasoning in bowl, add egg yolks and mix thor- 
oughly, add oil drop by drop, until four tablespoons have been added, 
after which larger quantities may be added. Stir constantly. As 
mixture thickens, add a teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar. Continue 
adding oil and lemon juice or vinegar alternately until all is used, 
stirring constantly. All ingredients should be very cold. Set bowl 
in which dressing is made in a bowl of crushed ice. 



80 



^2 Sunday Dinners 



June 

First Sunday 



CHERRY PIE 

Pick over, stem and pit cherries (there should be two cups when 
pitted). Heat to boihng point in their own juice, then chill them. 
Line a perforated pie pan with Rich Paste, moisten the rim with cold 
water and lay around a strip of pastry one inch wide, press lightly. 
Brush the pastry over with slightly beaten white of egg. Sweeten 
cherries to taste, add a few grains of salt and turn into lined pie pan. 
Sift over two tablespoons flour, moisten rim and cover with top 
crust, flute the edges and bake in hot oven for the first ten minutes, 
then reduce heat, continue baking for twenty-five minutes. Serve 
hot with cheese, cut in strips one-fourth inch thick and wide by two 
and one-half inches long. 

ICED TEA 

Make tea and chill. Serve in glasses filled with crushed ice, 
adding (if desired) one tablespoon lemon juice to each glass. Pass 
fine granulated (Bar) sugar. Place each glass on a small plate. 




s"Z.dsu«d,,y S2 Sunday Dinners 8i 

QYlentt 

Cheese Canapes 

Hamburg Roast — Bbown Sauce 

Roast New Potatoes 

Green Peas with New Carrots in Cream Sauce 

Garden Cress with Oranges — French Dressing 

Currant Pie 

Coffee Cherry Punch 

4 K 

CHEESE CANAPES 

Cut stale bread in one-quarter inch slices, shape with small 
biscuit cutter (2 inches in diameter). Spread lightly with French or 
German mustard, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, sprinkle 
cheese with finely chopped olives. Place a small stuffed olive in 
center of each. Dispose on a small plate covered with a paper 
doily. Garnish with sprays of parsley and serve as an "appetizer. " 

HAMBURG ROAST 

Remove the fat and stringy parts, also marrow-bone, from two 
pounds round steak. Pass through the meat grinder twice; add the 
marrow taken from bone, one tablespoon green pepper finely chopped, 
one tablespoon onion finely chopped, season well with salt and the 
beaten yolks of two eggs or one whole egg slightly beaten; add one- 
half cup of soft bread crumbs that have been soaked in cold water 
thirty minutes and wrung dry in a double cheese cloth. Mix in- 
gredients thoroughly with the hand. _ Shape in a compact roll of 
uniform thickness. Lay thin slices of salt pork or bacon in the 
bottom of a dripping pan, set the roast on them; lay thin slices of 
salt pork over-the meat and place in a hot oven. After the first eight 



82 ^2 Sunday Dinners i'Znd sundry 

minutes reduce the heat and baste with the hot fat in the pan; let 
cook about thirty minutes, basting every ten minutes. The roast 
should be richly browned on the outside and a delicate pink inside. 
Serve surrounded with Tomato, Brown or Creole Sauce. 

BROWN SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter. \}/2 cups Brown Stock. 

1 slice onion. 34 teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons flour. 3^ teaspoon pepper. 

Process: Melt butter in sauce pan, add onion and cook imtil 
delicately browned; remove onion, and cook butter until richly 
browned, stirring constantly; add flour sifted with seasoniags, stir to 
a paste and continue browning. Then pour on stock, slowly stirring 
until smooth and glossy. Onion may be omitted. ' 

ROAST NEW POTATOES 

Select uniform-sized new potatoes, wash and scrub them with 
a brush, pare and parboil ten to fifteen minuted (according to the 
size) in boiling salted water. Drain and place them around rack ifl 
dripping pan in which meat is roasting and cook until tender. Baste 
occasionally with fat in pan when basting roast. 

GREEN PEAS AND NEW CARROTS IN CREAM SAUCE 

Cook one and one-half cups of peas in just enough water to 
prevent them from burning. Add salt fifteen minutes before re- 
moving them from range. 

Wash, scrub and scrape new carrots and cut them in one-fourth 
inch cubes (there should be one and one-half cups); cook in boiling 
salted water untU tender. Drain and mix with peas. Reheat them 
in one and one-half cups of Cream Sauce (for recipe see Page 151). 

GARDEN CRESS WITH ORANGES 

Arrange individual nests of Garden Cress on six chilled salad 
plates. Cut eight oranges in halves, remove the pulp, discarding 
veins and sections. Leave the pulp in the original shape as taken 
from the sections; divide the pulp evenly between the six nests. 



s"Zd Sunday S^ Sufiday Djiiners 83 

Serve with French Dressing and sprinkle each portion with paprika 
and a few grains cayenne. Omit the garlic when using fruit. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

3^ teaspoon salt. 6 tablespoons olive oil. 

3^ teaspoon pepper. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

3^ teaspoon paprika. Garhc. 

Pbocess: Rub the mixing bowl with a bruised clove of garlic; 
add salt, 'pepper, paprika and oil; beat until ingredients are thor- 
oughly blended, adding vinegar slowly meanwhile. A piece of ice 
put into bowl while stirring will aid in chilling the mixture. 

CURRANT PIE 

2J^ cups cleaned currants. Y% teaspoon salt. 

2 cups sugar. 2 eggs shghtly beaten. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Process: Mix the ingredients in the order given. Turn in a 
lined pie pan, heaping currants in center; cover with top crust, press 
and flute the edges. Bake as other berry pies. Serve hot. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. 

CHERRY PUNCH 

BoU two cups sugar and one cup water until a rich syrup is 
formed. Add one cup of lemon juice and two cups of Cherry juice, 
left over when canning cherries. (This left-over juice may be 
brought to the boiling point, skimmed and turned into sterilized 
fruit jars, sealed and stored as canned fruit and may be used for 
punch or pudding sauce.) Add two cups cold water. Fill a claret 
pitcher with cracked ice; add mixture. When serving, place a thin 
slice of orange, three or four strawberries and three pitted California 
cherries in each glass, fiU three-fourths full with mixture. Serve 
very cold. 



84 5"^ Sunday Dinners 'xZd Sunday 

QfUenu 

Chicken Consomme with Poached Egg Yolks 

Fried Pekch — Sauce Taktabe 

Sheedded Potatoes Asparagus on Toast 

Lettuce with Cream Dressing 

Cherry Roly-Poly Cherry Sauce 

Coffee 

-I *> 

CHICKEN CONSOMMfi WITH POACHED EGG YOLKS 

Heat six cups of Chicken Consomm6 to the boiling poiat. Poach 
the yolks of six eggs in hot water until firm; remove from water with 
a skimmer. Place one yolk in each Bouillon cup and pour on hot 
consomme. Sprinkle slightly with finely chopped chives or parsley. 

FRIED PERCH 

Select fresh perch of medium size. Clean, bone and wipe dry 
as possible. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs 
(be sure fish are well coated with crumbs). Lay three at a time in a 
croquette basket and fry a golden brown in deep hot Cottolene. 
Cottolene should not be so hot as to brown fish at once, as fish will 
not be cooked through. (Time required for frying small fish is from 
four to six minutes.) Drain on brown paper and serve with Sauce 
Tartare. Garnish with parsley, lemon slices and radishes cut to 
imitate roses. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

Tc one cup of Mayonnaise Dressing add one finely chopped 
shallot, one tablespoon each finely chopped capers, sweet gherkins, 
olives, and one-half tablespoon each finely chopped parsley and 
fresh tarragon. Mix well and keep coel until ready to serve. 



iZrd Sunday $2 Sufiduy DtHncrs 85 



SHREDDED POTATOES 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-eighth inch shoes. Cut 
slices in tiny straws. Wash carefully in cold water until water 
ceases to be cloudy. Let stand one b our in cold water. Drain and 
dry on towels. Fry a golden brown in deep h^t Cottolene. Drain 
on brown paper, sprinkle with salt and serve around fried perch. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS IN CROUSTADES 

Prepare the asparagus in the usual way, cut off the tops one 
inch in length. Cook in as little boiling salted water as possible. 
Drain and dress with a Bechamel Sauce. Serve in Bread Croustades 
(small round, square, or diamond-shaped molds cut through thick 
slices of bread). 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter. 3^ cup hot thin cream. 

4 tablespoons flour. Yolk 2 eggs. 

1 J^ cups highly seasoned chicken Salt, pepper, few grains nutmeg, 
stock. 

Process: Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour, stir to a smooth 
paste; add stock slowly, stirring constantly; add cream and con- 
tinue stirring. Bring to boiling point, remove from range and add 
egg yolk slightly beaten. Add seasonings. Beat until smooth and 
glossy. Keep hot over hot water. Do not allow sauce to boil after 
adding yolk of egg. 

LETTUCE WITH CREAM DRESSING 

Pick over, wash thoroughly young tender lettuce; cut off the 
roots and drain. Beat one-half cup heavy cream until solid. Add 
two tablespoons vinegar diluted with one tablespoon cold water. 
Add one tablespoon finely chopped chives, one-half teaspoon salt 
and one-eighth teaspoon pepper. Pour over lettuce, mix well and 
serve cold. 

CHERRY ROLY-POLY 

Make a baking powder biscuit dough as for Cream Fruit Rolls. 
(See Page 180.) Roll to one-half inch thickness. Drain pitted 
chfime&Jn^^JlMiiiiiWfaiiBriJMiiHiiiiiaiough, sprinkle with sugar 



86 



^2 Sunday Dinners 



June 

Third Sunday 



and dredge lightly with flour. Roll like a jelly roll, moisten and 
press the overlapping edge and close the ends as securely as possible. 
Bake in a hot oven, twenty-five minutes, basting three times with 
some of the cherry juice sweetened to taste, or tie loosely in a floured 
cloth and cook in boiling water two hours, or steam in a steamer one 
hour. Serve on a hot platter with Cherry Sauce. 



CHERRY SAUCE 



2 cups pitted cherries. 
1 cup claret. 

2^ 



}/2 glass red currant jelly. 
Juice 1 lemon, 
cup sugar. 3^ dozen Cassia buds. 

Process: Mix the ingredients in the order given, cook slowly 
until reduced to a syrup. Strain through a sieve and serve hot with 
Cherry Roly-Poly or Dumplings. 




■1 4 — !► 

iZ'm Sunday 5^ Sutiduy DifinBrs 87 



QYlenu 



Cbeam of Asparagus Soup — Croutons 

Radishes Green Onions 

Roast Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb — Mint Sauce 

New Potatoes with Peas 

Swiss Chard with Bacon and' "Hard Boiled" Eggs 

Cherry Duff Cherry Sauce 

Coffee 

4 -K 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

(For recipe see Page 66.) 

CROUTONS 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices; remove crusts and cut 
in one-third inch strips, cut strips in one-third inch cubes. Fry 
them a golden brown in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper 
and sprinkle lightly with salt. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF LAMB 

Order a shoulder and fore-leg of lamb, boned. Wipe, stuff and 
truss in shape. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. 
Place on rack in dripping pan, put in hot oven and baste with dripping 
melted in one cup hot water, as soon as flour begins to brown; con- 
tinue basting every fifteen minutes until meat is done, which will 
require about two hours; add one cup of stock to pan while meat is 
cooking. When richly browned cover closely, and finish cooking. 

To carve a boned leg of lamb, cut in thin slices across the grain, 
beginning at top of shoulder. When trussed in shape meat looks 
like a goose without wings or legs. 

STUFFING FOR LAMB 

(See recipe Page 154 for stuffing, adding ^ teaspoon poultry 
seasoning.) 



88 5 2 Sunday Dinners ''pZthSu«day 

MINT SAUCE 

1 bunch of mint finely chopped. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

3^ cup vinegar. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Process: Dilute vinegar with cold water, add sugar and stir 
until sugar is dissolved, pour over mint (there should be four table- 
spoons of mint), place on back of range and infuse for one-half hour. 

NEW POTATOES WITH NEW PEAS 

Prepare potatoes as for New Potatoes with Chive Sauce (see 
recipe Page 78), omitting the Chives. Cook one cup of new peas 
until tender, in as little boiling salted water as possible. Drain; add 
to potatoes. Reheat potatoes and peas in Cream Sauce. 

SWISS CHARD WITH BACON 

Wash and pick over Swiss Chard. Cook in boiling salted water, 
using just enough water to prevent Chard from burning. Drain and 
chop fine. Arrange in a mound oh a chop platter, surround (crown 
fashion) with "hard-boiled" eggs cut in halves lengthwise, having 
cut side out. Cut a slice off the large end of each egg so that they 
will stay in place. Cut five slices of bacon iu narrow strips crosswise. 
Try out one-third cup. Add one-fourth cup vinegar, diluted with 
one-fourth cup hot water, pour while hot over the Swiss Chard, 
scattering the scraps of bacon over top of mound. 

CHERRY DUFF 

4 cups pitted cherries, 2 cups flour. 

2 cups sugar. 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

13^ tablespoons Cottolene. ^ cup milk or thia cream. 

Process: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub 
Cottolene in lightly with the tips of fingers; add milk and mix to soft 
dough. Put sugar, cherries, drained from juice, and lemon juice in 
bottom of well-greased bakiag dish. Cover with dough, place in 
steamer, set over kettle of boiling water, lay a crash towel over steam- 
er, replace cover, and steam pudding forty-five minutes. Serve with 
cherry juice, thickened with arrow root and sweetened. 









;i 




I'm quite ashamed — 'tis mighty 

rude 
To eat so much — but alVs so good! 

—Pope. 




90 ^2 Sunday Dinners if^sts^nday 

Qfjfletttt 

Cold Consomme 
Veal Loaf (Hot) — Tomato Sauce 

OR 

Cold — with Stkeng Bean Salad 

Saratoga Chips Beets in Drawn Butter 

Figs in Sherry Jelly with Whipped Cream 

Nut and Raisin Cake with Caramel Frosting 

Iced Coffee 

H i h 

CHICKEN CONSOMME (COLD) 

Place a four-pound fowl in stock pot and a small knuckle of veal; 
add four quarts of cold water and heat slowly to boiling point. 
Skim, reduce heat and let simmer five hours. Do not allow liquid 
to boil as it will destroy its gelatinous properties, and the stock will 
be turbid. The last hour of cooking add one-third cup each celery, 
carrot and turnip cut in small dice, one-third cup sKced onion, one 
teaspoon peppercorns, one tablespoon salt, three sprays thyme, one 
spray marjoram, two sprays parsley, one-half bay leaf. Remove 
fowl and knuckle; strain soup through double cheese cloth, cool 
quickly, and remove all fat; clear. Fill Bouillon cups three-fourths 
full and chill. This should be a clear, savory jelly. 

TO CLEAR SOUP STOCK 

After straining the stock through double cheese cloth, remove 
all fat and put the stock into a four-quart stew-pan. Place on range 
and allow the white and shell of one egg for each quart of stock. 
Beat the eggs slightly and crush shells in small bits, add slowly to 
stock, stirring constantly but slowly until the boiling point is reached; 



itst Sunday ^2 Sufiday Dinmrs 91 

let boil two minutes. Reduce the heat so that stock barely simmers 
twenty minutes, skim and strain through double cheese cloth placed 
over fine soup strainer. If stock to be cleared is not sufficiently 
seasoned, add more seasoning before clearing. 

VEAL LOAF 

Wipe three pounds of lean veal, discarding all skin and tissue. 
Pass meat through the meat-chopper twice, with one-half pound of 
salt pork; add six crackers rolled, one-fourth cup cream, juice of one 
small lemon (about two tablespoons), one tablespoon salt, one-half 
tablespoon black pepper, onion juice to taste. Mix thoroughly and 
pack solidly in a granite, brick-shaped bread pan, spread top evenly 
and brush with slightly beaten white of egg. Bake in a moderate 
oven three hours, basting often with one-fourth cup of pork fat or 
dripping diluted with one-fourth cup boiling water. Prick surface 
with a fork that fat may penetrate meat. Chill, remove to serving 
platter, surround by any good vegetable salad. If served hot, 
surround with Tomato, Creole or Espagnole Sauce. This may be 
prepared Saturday. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

Marinate cold, cooked, stringless beans with French Dressing. 
There should be enough beans to make a generous border around 
a cold veal loaf. Sprinkle beans thickly with small onions thinly 
sliced and the rings separated. Garnish edge of dish with sprays of 
parsley and Nasturtium blossoms. The finely chopped seed-cells 
may also be sprinkled over beans and is quite an addition. 

SARATOGA CHIPS 

Wash and pare the desired number of uniform-sized potatoes. 
Slice thinly (using slaw cutter) into a bowl of cold water. Let 
stand several hours, changing the water often or until it is quite clear. 
Drain and drop them into a kettle of boiling water; allow them to 
boil just one minute. Drain quickly and cover with cold water. 
Drain from cold water and tiry between towels. Fry a few at a time 
in deep hot Cottolene, keeping them moving with the skimmer. 
Drain on soft brown paper and sprinkle with salt. 



92 52 Sunday Dinners itl Sunday 



BEETS IN DRAWN BUTTER 

Wash the small new beets and cook in boiling salted water until 
tender. Drain and cover with cold water. Rub off the skins and 
slice them or cut them in cubes. Reheat them in 

DRAWN BUTTER (SOUR SAUCE) 

Melt two tablespoons butter in a sauce-pan; add three table- 
spoons flour, stir to a smooth paste and add gradually, while stirring 
constantly, one cup boiling water. Boil two minutes, then add four 
tablespoons hot cream and four tablespoons vinegar (if vinegar is 
too acid use two tablespoons each of vinegar and water), season with 
salt and pepper. 

FIGS IN SHERRY JELLY 

1 tablespoon granulated gela- ^ cup best table Sherry wine. 

tine. Juice of 1 small lemon. 

34 cup cold water. J^ dozen washed figs. 

^ cup boiling water. Whipped Cream. 

3^ cup sugar. 

Process: Soak gelatine in cold water, then dissolve it in boiHng 
water; add sugar and stir occasionally until mixture begins to 
thicken, then add wine and lemon juice. Chill a pint mold in ice 
water (a fancy mold is attractive for this purpose). Separate the 
figs, slice them thinly and dip some of them in the jelly and use them 
for decorating the mold; then fill the mold with alternate layers 
of sliced figs and the mixture, allowing the jelly to "set" each time 
before adding the slices of figs. Chill thoroughly. Unmold jelly 
on serving dish and surround with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored as desired. Use pastry bag and rose tube for this purpose. 

NUT AND RAISIN CAKE 

J^ cup Cottolene. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup fine sugar. % cup milk. 

3 eggs unbeaten. Grated rind of half an orange. 

1 cup pecan nut meats. J^ teaspoon cinnamon. 
^ cup raisins. 34 teaspoon mace. 

2 cups pastry flour. 34 teaspoon salt. 



Fir'si Sunday 5^ SuTiday DtTiners 93 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly; add eggs, one at a time and beating each in thoroughly 
before adding another. Pass nuts and raisins through meat chopper, 
then mix with flour sifted with baking powder, salt and spices; add 
alternately to first mixture with milk, beating constantly. Turn 
mixture into a well-greased tube pan and bake thirty-five to forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Spread with 

CARAMEL FROSTING WITH NUTS 

\}4c cups soft brown sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 
M cup granulated sugar. J/^ teaspoon almond extract. 

J^ cup boiling water. 3^ cup pecan nut meats broken in 

pieces. 

Process: Boil sugar and water together as for Boiled Frosting 
(see recipe Page 56). Pour slowly onto beaten whites of eggs, 
beating constantly, continue beating until frosting is nearly cool. 
Put pan containing frosting in a larger vessel of boiling water, place 
on range and cook until mixture granulates around sides of pan, stir 
constantly while cooking. Remove from hot water and beat until 
frosting will keep its shape when dropped from spoon. Add nut 
meats and flavoring. Spread on cake, using wooden spoon to give 
surface a wave-like appearance. 

ICED COFFEE 

Follow directions for making Boiled Coffee, using four cups 
boihng water. Chill and serve in tall glasses filled with cracked 
ice; add cream and sugar. 



94 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



July 

Secofid Sunday 



(Wletttt 

Consomme with Vegetables 

Baked Stuffed Black Bass — Egg Sauce 

Paksley Potatoes Cauliflower with Cheese Sauce 

Thin Coen Bread 

Tomato and Onion Salad 

Steamed Blueberry Pudding — Foamy Sauce 

Iced Tea CAFfi Noir 

^ : i, 

CONSOMME WITH VEGETABLES 

To six cups Consomm^ (for recipe see Page 149) add French string 
beans cut in diamonds, carrots cooked and cut in tiny fancy shapes 
(using French vegetable cutters), and French peas. Serve with 
toasted Cheese Crackers. 

BAKED BLACK BASS 

Clean a four-pound Black Bass, pickerel or haddock, sprinkle 
with salt, stuff and sew with No. 8 cotton thread. Cut four or five 
diagonal gashes on each side of backbone and lay in strips of fat 
salt pork. Have the gashes on one side come between gashes on the 
other. The fish may be skewered in the shape of the letter S, or 
placed in an upright position on a well-greased fish sheet, laid in 
the bottom of a dripping-pan. Brush over with melted butter and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and strew small 
pieces of fat pork around fish. Bake one hour in a hot oven, basting 
every ten minutes, first with melted butter or dripping, then with 
fat in dripping-pan as it is tried out. Dispose on hot serving platter, 
pour around Egg Sauce and garnish with sprays of parsley. 

STUFFING FOR FISH 

J^ cup cracker crumbs. }/^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup stale bread crumbs. }/g teaspoon pepper. 

5 tablespoons butter. 3^ cup hot water. 

Onion juice. 



stLd Sunday S^ SuTiday Dinners 95 

Peocess: Mix crumbs, add seasoning, melt butter and hot 
water, add to crumbs, toss lightly with a fork and add onion juice to 
taste. 

EGG SAUCE 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add one-half teaspoon Anchovy Esspnce 
and two hard-cooked eggs cut in thin slices. Sprinkle all with finely 
chopped parsley. (For Drawn Butter Sauce see Page 92.) 

THIN COBJSr BREAD 

^ cup yellow corn meal. ^ teaspoon salt. 

IM cups flour. 1 cup thin cream. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg well beaten. 

5 teaspoons baking powder. 2- tablespoons Cottolene. 

Process: Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add cream, beaten 
egg and Cottolene, beat thoroughly; bake in a well-greased, shallow 
pan, in a hot oven, twenty-five minutes; five minutes before re- 
moving from oven, brush over with melted butter or milk to give it 
a richer color. Serve w^th baked or broiled fish. 

PARSLEY POTATOES 

Select smooth, uniform-sized new potatoes; wash, scrape and 
cover with cold water. Let stand one hour; drain and place in 
steamer, cover closely and steam until soft. Remove to serving 
dish; dot over with bits of butter and sprinkle at once with coarse 
salt and finely chopped parsley. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CHEESE SAUCE 

Select a medium-sized, firm cauliflower. Trim ofl' leaves, cut 
off stalk, and soak one hour (head down) in cold salt water to cover. 
Cook (head up) until soft but not broken (about thirty minutes) 
in boiling salted water. Drain and place carefully in a buttered, 
shallow baking dish, pour over one and one-half cups of Cheese 
Sauce, sprinkle with buttered crumbs and place in oven until crumbs 
are browned. Serve in baking dish. 



96 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



July 

Second Sunday 



CHEESE SAUCE 

3 tablespoons butter. y% teaspoon pepper. 
2 tablespoons flour. Few grains cayenne. 
J^ teaspoon salt. Ij^ cups hot milk. 

y^ cup cheese cut in small pieces. 
Process: Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add flour, mixed with 
seasonings, stir to a smooth paste; let cook one minute, stirring 
constantly. Pour on gradually hot milk and beat until smooth and 
glossy. Add cheese and when melted pour over cauliflower. 

TOMATO AND ONION SALAD 

Arrange a nest of heart lettuce leaves in salad bowl; place in 
center three peeled and chilled tomatoes, cut in quarters; thinly 
slice a mild onion, separate the rings and strew them over tomatoes, 
sprinkle all with green and red peppers finely chopped. Serve with 
French Dressing. 

STEAMED BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

2J/^ cups bread flour. 2 tablespoons Cottolene. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspQon salt. 1 cup blueberries. 
Process: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub in 

Cottolene with tips of fingers, add milk gradually, stirring constantly; 
turn on a fioured board, knead sHghtly, then roll out to one-half inch 
thickness; place berries in center mixed with one-half teaspoon salt 
and two tablespoons sugar; fold dough over, pinch the edges together 
to form a large ball; lift carefully into a well-greased, two-quart pail, 
cover closely and steam one and one-half hours. Serve with 

FOAMY SAUCE 

2 egg whites. ^ cup thin hot cream. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon Sherry Wine. 

Nutmeg. 
Process: Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, add sugar gradually, 
beating constantly. Add hot cream slowly, continue beating. Add 
Sherry wine and a sprinkle of nutmeg. Milk may be used in place 
of cream, if the latter is not available. 



Jitly 

Third Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 97 



(menu 



Tomato Bouillon — Cheesed Butter Thins 

Radishes Pickles 

Cold Boiled Tongue Chili Sauce 

Potato Salad — Bkoiled Tomatoes 

Bluebehey Pie — Cheese Balls 

Iced Cafe au Lait 

Iced Cocoa 



TOMATO BOUILLON 

Prepare a tomato sauce; there should be two cups. Strain this 
while hot through one thickness of cheese cloth into six cups of hot 
Bouillon. Reheat and serve in Bouillon cups with 

CHEESED BUTTER THINS 

Sprinkle Butter Thins lightly with grated cheese, seasoned with 
salt and a few grains cayenne. Place in the oven until crackers are 
crisp and cheese is melted. 

BOILED TONGUE 

Wash and clean the tongue, cover with boiling water, to which 
add one-third cup each carrots, turnips and onion cut in dice; two 
sprays each parsley and thyme, one-half teaspoon peppercorns and 
one-half dozen cloves. Simmer until tongue is tender. Let cool 
in liquor in which it was cooked, remove the skin and brush with 
melted butter. Cover with fine, buttered bread crumbs, after 
arranging in dripping pan. Bake twenty minutes, basting often 
with hot stock or port wine. Chilly and slice thinly; garnish with 
triangles of buttered toast sprinkled with finely chopped parsley. 



98 5^ Sunday Dinners '"'" 



Third Sunday 



CHILI SAUCE 

2 dozen ripe tomatoes. 1 cup brown sugar. 

1 dozen onions finely chopped. 4 cups cider vinegar. 

1 dozen peppers finely chopped. 4 tablespoons salt. 

Process: Scald, peel and chop tomatoes; then add remaining 
ingredients in the order given. Place on range, bring to boiling 
point and cook slowly until thick. Add more salt and sugar if 
necessary. Turn into sterilized fruit jars, seal and store. Serve 
with meats, fish, etc. 

POTATO SALAD 

Cut balls from raw potatoes, using a French vegetable cutter. 
There should be three cups. Cook potato balls with three slices of 
onion in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, chill and marinate 
with French Dressing, then cover with Boiled Dressing. Arrange 
in a mound on serving platter, surrounded with a border of nasturtium 
blossoms and leaves. Sprinkle top with finely chopped chives. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

J^ cup butter. Yolks 4 eggs. 

IJ^ teaspoons salt. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 teaspoon mustard. J^ cup vinegar diluted with 

14: teaspoon paprika. 2 tablespoons water. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 cup cream. 

Process: Melt butter in sauce-pan; add flour mixed with season- 
ings, add egg yolks slightly beaten and vinegar and water. Cook 
over hot water until mixture thickens. Cool. Whip cream and 
fold into mixture. Beat well, chill and serve with potato salad. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut firm, ripe tomatoes in halves, crosswise. Rub each half 
lightly with a clove of garlic, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and fine, 
buttered bread crumbs mixed with a tablespoon of sugar. Place 
in a well-buttered broiler and broil five minutes. Remove care- 
fully to a well-buttered shallow ramekin, dot over with bits of butter, 
finish cooking in the oven, and serve. 



nL Sunday 5^ SuTiday Dinners 99 

BLUEBERRY PIE 

Line a deep, perforated pie tin with Plain Paste; brush over with 
white of egg slightly beaten. Fill with three cups blueberries mixed 
with one cup sugar, two tablespoons flour, one tablespoon butter 
cut in bits., one-eighth teaspoon salt, one tablespoon lemon juice. 
Wet edges, cover with crust, flute the rim and bake thirty-five min- 
utes in a hot oven at first to set th^ crust, then reduce the heat and 
finish baking. 

CHEESE BALLS 

Rub to a paste one roll Neufchatel cheese; to this add one-half 
cup chopped pecan meats and one-half teaspoon finely chopped, mild 
red pepper; season with salt and roll with the "butter paddles" in 
small balls the size of Queen olives. Serve with berry or cherry pies. 

ICED CAFf: AU LAIT 

1 cup medium ground coffee. 3 cups boiling water. 
White 1 egg. 3 cups scalded milk. 

1 cup cold water. 

Process: Scald enameled coffee pot. Beat white of egg slightly. 
Dilute with one-half cup cold water, mix with coffee, turn into 
coffee pot and add boiling water, stir until well mixed. Place on 
range and let boil five minutes. Stir down and pour some into a 
cup to clear the spout of grounds. Return to pot and add remain- 
ing half cup of cold water. Place on back of range for ten minutes, 
where it will keep hot but not boil. After removing coffee to back of 
range, put milk into double boiler and, when scalded, pour the two 
together in another scalded coffee pot. Chill and serve. 



100 5^ Sunday Dinners p'^rth Sunday 

(menu 

Watermelon with Sherry Sauce 

Consomme Printaniere — Imperial Rings 

Stuffed Hearts with Vegetables 

Potato Puff 

Cabbage Salad 

Raspberry Whip — White Nut Cake 

Iced Coffee 



WATERMELON WITH SHERRY SAUCE 

Scoop balls out of the center of watermelon using French potato 
cutter. Pour over Sherry Sauce and place them carefully in a 
freezer, packed in salt and ice, let stand until thoroughly chilled 
(about one and, a half hours). Serve with Sherry Sauce in taU 
champagne glasses. 

SHERRY SAUCE 

Cook one cup sugar with one-fourth cup of water three minutes. 
Cool slightly and add one-half cup Sherry, three tablespoons Sloe 
gin and a sprinkle of salt. Chill and pour over watermelon balls. 

CONSOMMfi PRINTANIERE 

To one quart of Chicken Consomme add one tablespoon each 
of cooked carrot and turnip, cut in small fancy shapes (using French 
vegetable cutter for this purpose), small peas, French beans and 
asparagus tips. Heat these vegetables in a small quantity of hot 
consomm^; drain, place them in hot soup tureen and pour over boil- 
ing consomme. 

IMPERIAL RINGS 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices. Stamp out circles three 
inches in diameter; with a smaller cutter (size of top of pepper shaker) 



i'^rth Sunday ^2 SuTiday Dtuners loi 

cut oxlt center, leaving rings about one-third inch wide. Brush with 
melted butter, sprinkle lightly with salt and paprika, and brown 
delicately in the oven. Serve in a circle overlapping each other on a 
plate covered with a doily. 

STUFFED HEARTS WITH VEGETABLES 

Clean and wash three calves' hearts; stuff and skewer into shape. 
Draw small strips of salt pork (lardoons) through edges of hearts. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and brown well in 
hot Cottolene, with two slices onion, four slices carrot, one blade 
celery cut fine, two sprays parsley, two small bits bay leaf, three 
cloves and one-half teaspoon peppercorns. When hearts are richly 
browned, remove to Dutch oven, casserole or deep baking dish. 
Add two cups Brown Stock, cover closely and cook slowly in the qven 
until tender (about two hours), basting six times while cooking. 

Cut three slices of stale bread one-third inch thick, shape with 
^arge round cutter; with a small cutter remove centers to form rings: 
brush with melted butter and brown delicately in the oven. Ar- 
range them on hot serving platter, set a heart in each ring and sur- 
round with new carrots and turnips cut Julienne style and cooked 
in boiling salted water until tender. There should be one and one- 
half cups each. Drain and dress with Maitre d'H6tel Butter. 

STUFFING FOR HEARTS 

}/2 cup cracker crumbs. J^ teaspoon finely chopped 

3^ cup stale bread crumbs. parsley. 

2 inch cube fat salt pork 1 tablespoon onion finely 

finely chopped. chopped. 

2 blades celery finely chopped. Salt, pepper. 

Process: Mix ingredients iii the order given and season well 
with salt and pepper. 

POTATO PUFF 

Prepare two and one-half cups hot mashed potatoes. Add two 
and one-half tablespoons butter, one-half teaspoon baking powder, 
season with salt and pepper and moisten with one-half cup hot cream 
or milk, beat thoroughly. Add the whites of two eggs beaten until 



102 52 Sunday Dinners rZihsund^ 



stiff. Pile lightly in a buttered baking dish and bake until well 
puffed and browned. 

NEW CABBAGE SALAD 

Mix two cups of new cabbagt, finely shredded, with one-half 
cup of celery cut in small pieces and one mild onion finely chopped. 
Add one-half tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce to one cup of boiled 
salad dressing and mix thoroughly with cabbage. Chill. Serve 
in onion cups or in nests of crisp lettuce leaves. 

RASPBERRY WHIP 

ly^ cups red raspberries. 1 cup powdered sugar, 

White 1 egg. 

Process: Mix sugar with berries and turn into bowl in which 
white of egg is slightly beaten, then mash berries and sugar and mix 
thoroughly with egg. Beat with a wire whip until mixture is stiff to 
stand. Pile lightly on a chilled serving dish ^nd surround with 
macaroons. Serve with 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

1 egg. powdered sugar. 

3 tablespoons Sherry wine. 

Process: Beat yolks until thick and light, add one half the sugar 
gradually, beating constantly: beat whites until stiff, graduaUy 
adding the remaining half cup sugar. Combine mixtures, add wine 
and beat thoroughly. 

WHITE NUT CAKE 

J^ cup Cottolene. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

13^ cups fine sugar. J^ teaspoon salt. 

^ cup cold water. Whites 4 eggs beaten until stiff. 

2M cups pastry flour. 3^ teaspoon Almond extract. 

1 cup Enghsh walnut meats broken in pieces. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, beating con- 
stantly. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt, add alternately 
to first mixture with water, add nut meats and extract; cut and fold 



July 

Fourth Sunday 



52 Sunday Dimiers 



103 



in whites of eggs. Bake in a sheet thirty-five minutes in a moderate 

oven. Spread with 

MAPLE FROSTING 

1 cup maple sugar. White 1 egg. 

]/2 cup boiHng water. 3^ teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Process: Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar together until 
it spins a thread from tip of spoon. Pour slowly in a fine stream on 
the beaten white and continue beating until of the consistency to 
spread over cake. (To get the exact proportion of sugar, weigh one 
level cup of granulated sugar to ascertain by weight how much 
Maple sugar is required for this amount of water and white of one 
egg. It will weigh about one-half pound.) 




104 5 2 Sunday Dinners mh Sunday 



(YKlentt 

Cream of Lettuce Soup 

Pressed Chicken Tomato Salad 

Lattice Potatoes — Green Corn Pudding 

Peach Ice Cream — Rich Chocolate Cake 

Spiced Ice Tea 



*-»- 



CREAM OF LETTUCE SOUP 



2 cups White Stock. 1 teaspoon finely chopped onion. 

2 heads lettuce. J^ cup hot cream. 

2 tablespoons rice. 1 egg yolk. 

2 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper. 

Few grains nutmeg. 
Process: Cook the onion in butter five minutes (without brown- 
ing), add rice, lettuce finely chopped, and stock, cover and cook 
until rice is soft; add hot cream, slightly beaten yolk of egg and 
seasonings. Do not allow soup to boil after adding egg yolk. Dis- 
card outer leaves of lettuce, using only the hearts for soup. 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

Disjoint a four- or five-pound fowl, cover with boiling water 
and let simmer until tender, with one carrot sliced, one onion sUced, 
a blade or two of celery broken in inch pieces, two sprays parsley 
and one-half teaspoon peppercorns. Add one tablespoon salt the 
last hour of cooking. Drain chicken from liquor, remove the skin 
and bones; strain Uquor, return to range and let simmer until re- 
duced to one cup, strain and reserve. When the meat is nearly 
cold, cut it in small cubes or chop fine; remove all fat from liquor, 
reheat and add chicken, stirring it slowly, season with salt and pepper 
if necessary. Decorate a granite, brick-shaped bread pan with 



i% Sunday 5^ Suitday Dinners los 

"hard boiled" eggs cut in rings or faiicy shapes, over these pack the 
chicken mixture very carefully so as not to disturb the decorations. 
Cover with a buttered paper, place a weight over paper and let stand 
over night in a cold place. Serve with Tomato Salad. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Wash garden cress and shake dry, arrange a bed on large oval 
platter, discarding all coarse leaves and stems. Peel and chill five 
uniform-sized tomatoes, cut a slice from the stem ends and scoop 
out the pulp, invert tomato cups on a plate and set aside in a cool 
places Chop fine the solid pulp of the tomato with one chilled and 
pared cucumber, add two tablespoons finely chopped chives, stir 
in one cup of Cream Dressing and refill tomato cups with mixture 
heaping them in pyramids. . Dispose these tomato cups at intervals 
in cress border and place mold of pressed chicken in center. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

\Yt teaspoon salt. 1 egg slightly beaten. 

}^ tablespoon mustard. %}/% tablespoons melted butter. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % cup cream. 

4 tablespoons vinegar. 

Process: Mix ingredients in the order given, adding vinegar 
very slowly, beating constantly. Cook in double boiler imtil mixture 
thickens; continue beating, strain at once and chill. 

LATTICE POTATOES 

Wash and pare potatoes of a uniform size. Slice on a corrugated 
vegetable slicer, which is made for this purpose. Wash slices in 
cold water, changing the water several times; then let stand several 
hours in cold water. Drain and dry with crash towels. Fry a few 
at a time in deep hot Cottolene, drain on brown paper, sprinkle 
with salt. Pile on a lace paper doily in a fancy basket. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING 

To two cups of cooked green corn, cut from the cob (or one can 
of com) chopped fine, add two eggs slightly beaten, one teaspoon 



106 §2 Sunday' Dinners' mu Sunday 

salt, one-eighth teaspoora peppier, one teaspoon. sugar, two table- 
spoons melted butter,' and two cups scalded milk. Mix well and 
turn into a buttered pu^dding diSh; bake untif firm in moderate oven. 

• PEACH ICE CREAM NO. 1 

\)/2 cups peach pulp. Juice one lemon. 

IJ^ cups granulated sugar. 1 quart thin cream. 

Pbocess: Pare and stone choice, ripe peaches and r b the pulp 
through a puree strainer; add su^ar and lemon juice, ti n into the 
can of freezer packed in ice and salt (using three measure of crushed 
ice to one of rock salt) ; add cream and freeze in the usual way. 

RICH CHOCOLATE CAKE 

J^ cup Cottolene. 3^ cup hot water. 

13^ cups sugar. J^ cup milk. 

4 eggs. 2 cups flour. 

4 squares chocolate. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. }€ teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Melt chocolate over hot water, add hot water specified in 
recipe and beat immediately into creamed butter and sugar; add 
yolks of eggs beaten until thick and light. Mix and sift floiu", cin- 
namon, baking powder and salt; add to first mixture alternately 
with milk, add vanilla. Cut and fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of 
eggs. Bake in a shallow pan forty to forty-five minutes. Cover 
with Boiled Frosting (for recipe see Page 56) . 

SPICED ICED TEA 

4 teaspoons tea. 2 cups boiUng water. 9 cloves. 

Process: Follow recipe for making tea. Strain into pitcher 
over cloves, chill, then pour into glasses filled with cracked ice. 
Sweeten to taste. The flavor of tea is preserved and is much finer 
by chilling the infusion quickly, before pouring over ice. Allow three 
cloTOB for each glass. The large Fenang cloves are the best. 




Hunger is the best seasoning for meat, 
And thirst for drink. 

— Cicero. 




W 




^ it 



108 52 Sunday Dinners ilTsu»day 

(YKlentt 

Nova Scotia CAi*APi:s 

Pan Broiled Fillets of Beef — Sultana Sauce 

Carlsbad Potatoes Peas and Onions French Style 

Lettuce, Peppergrass and Onion Salad 

Peach Ice Cream — Cocoanut Cake 

Coffee 

^ ^ 

NOVA SCOTIA CANAPfiS 

Cut white bread in one-third inch slices; stamp out with heart- 
shaped cutter; spread both sides thinly with butter, brown them 
delicately in the oven. Mince Nova Scotia smoked salmon and 
moisten with Mayonnaise or Boiled Salad Dressing, Spread each 
heart with mixture, dispose a dainty border of finely chopped white 
of egg around each and tip it off with a sprinkle of the yolk pressed 
through a sieve. Do not cover the salmon entirely with the egg. 
Arrange canapes on small plates covered with a lace paper doily; 
garnish each with a spray of parsley and serve as first course. 

PAN BROILED FILLETS OF BEEF 

Have fillets of beef cut one and one-half inches thick; shape in 
circular forms. Broil ten mifiutes in a hissing, well-buttered frying 
pan, turning every ten seconds for the two minutes, that the surface 
may be seared thoroughly, thus preventing the loss of juices. Turn 
occasionally afterward. When half done season with salt, pepper, 
reduce heat and finish cooking. Arrange on hot serving platter and 
spread generously with soft butter. Pour over Sultana Sauce. (For 
recipe see Page 61.) 

CARLSBAD POTATOES 

Wash and pare one dozen small, uniform-sized potatoes; soak 
one hour in cold water to cover. Drain, put in stew-pan and cover 
with one quart of boiling water. Add two tablespoons butter and 



Fir^L«d<iy 52 Sunday Dinners 109 

two teaspoons salt. Cook until soft (but not broken), then drain. 
Return to stew-pan. Add one-third cup butter, one and one-half 
tablespoons lemon juice, and one-eighth teaspoon paprika. Cook 
four or five minutes, shaking the pan occasionally. Place in hot 
serving dish and sprinkle with one tablespoon chopped parsley. 

PEAS AND ONIONS — FRENCH STYLE 

Cut one slide bacon in shreds crosswise, using the shears for 
this purpose. Cook bacon with one-fourth cup butter about ten 
minutes, without scorching bacon." Remove scraps of bacon, add 
two cups fresh peas, one dozen small onions and a sprig of mint. 
Cook until peas and onions are soft, adding one-fourth cup boiling 
water to prevent scorching. Beat one egg yolk slightly, add one- 
third cup cream and one head of lettuce cut in quarters (use lettuce 
hearts), season with salt and pepper. Let boil up once and serve. 

LETTUCE, PEPPERGRASS AND ONION SALAD 

Separate the heart leaves of two solid heads of lettuce. Wash, 
drain and chill; arrange them in a nest in salad bowl. Sprinkle 
between and over leaves four tablespoons finely chopped pepper- 
grass and small, thinly sliced onions, separating the rings. Marinate 
with French Dressing; chill and serve. 

PEACH ICE CREAM No. 2 

4 cups milk. 1 tablespoon lemon extract. 

3 cups heavy cream. 34 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup sugar. 2 cups fresh peach pulp. 

Pkocess: Pare and pit peaches; stew until soft, rub through 
a sieve, Then mix ingredients in the order given. Add peach pulp 
and freeze. Let stand two hours before serving. 

COCOANUT CAKE 

(For recipe see Page 56.) 



no S2 Sunday Dinners iS 



Second Sunday 



QYlenu 

Consomme (Cold) 

Bkoiled Chicken — Sauce Viennaise 

Potato Roses Corn Fritters 

Cauliflower a la Bechamel 

Dressed Head Lettuce 

Salad Rolls 

Blackberry Roly-Poly Creamy Sauce 

Coffee 



COLD CONSOMME 

(For recipe see Page 90.) 

BROILED CHICKEN 

Singe, wipe and with a sharp pointed knife (a boning knife) 
split the broiler down the back the entire length, beginning at back 
of neck. Lay open and remove entrails, etc., remove ribs and breast- 
bone, then cut the tendons at joints. Rub bird over with soft butter, 
sprinkle with salt and place on a well-greased broiler or in a well- 
greased wire broiler. Cook twenty-five minutes under a gas flame 
or over glowing coals, turning often. Baste bird over several times 
with melted butter if it appears dry. When evenly browned, remove 
to well-greased dripping pan, spread again with soft butter, cover 
closely, and bake until tender at the joints. Serve with 

SAUCE VIENNAISE 

Reduce one small can of tomatoes by slow cooking to a thick 
pulp; when strained there should be two tablespoons. To three- 
fourths cup Mayonnaise Dressing add three-fourths tablespoon 
finely chopped capers, one teaspoon finely chopped parsley, two 



i:'::! Sunday 52 Sunday Dinners m 

teaspoons each finely chopped gherkins and ohves, one teaspoon 
finely chopped .onion or chives. Add tomato pulp, mix well and 
keep in a cool place until ready to serve. 

MASHED POTATOES (FOR ROSES) 

To three cups of hot need potatoes add three tablespoons butter, 
one teaspoon salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs and enough hot 
milk to allow the mixture to pass readily through the pastry-bag 
with rose tube attached. Shape as roses on a buttered tin sheet, 
brush over hghtly with egg slightly beaten and diluted with one 
tablespoon milk, and brown delicately in oven. 

To Shape Roses 
Fill pastry bag with potato mixture. Hold the bag upright 
with tube pointing downward. Guide tube with left hand and 
press out potato with the right, making a circular motion. When 
roses are the desired size press the tube gently into mixture and 
withdraw it quickly to stop the flow and give the pyramid a pointed 
finish. Sweet potatoes may be prepared in the same manner. 

CORN FRITTERS 
(For recipe see Page 63.) 

CAULIFLOWER A LA BECHAMEL 

Select a firm, white cauliflower, remove leaves and cut off the 
stalk. Soak (head down) in cold salt water to cover. Drain and 
cook (head up) in boiling salted water to cover until tender but not 
broken apart. Drain well and dispose on shallow serving dish. 
Pour over one and one-half cups Bechamel Sauce (see Page 85). 
Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

DRESSED HEAD LETTUCE 

Select a large, firm head of lettuce. Remove all wilted leaves. 
Separate the heart leaves sufficiently to wash them thoroughly. 
Drain, arrange leaves on shallow serving plate, keeping them in their 
original shape if possible. Sprinkle over all finely shredded red and 
green prepared peppers. (To prepare peppers, plunge them into 



112 5 2 Sunday Dinners fJZ Sunday 

boiling water, then quickly rub off the glazed outer skin, drop peppers 
into cold water until crisp. Cut a slice from the stem ends, remove 
seeds and veins, then cut in thread like rings.) Serve with French 
Dressing, to which add one tablespoon Roquefort cheese. Blend 
well before pouring over Salad. 

BLACKBERRY ROLY-POLY 

2 cups blackberries. J^ teaspoon salt. 

34 cup water. 4 tablespoons Cottolene. 

1 cup sugar. Yolk 1 egg. 

}/i teaspoon salt. White 1 egg slightly beaten. 

2 cups pastry flour. Granulated sugar. 
4 teaspoons baking powder. Ground cloves. 

Process: Cook blackberries in water and salt until berries are 
soft. Rub through a sieve and add sugar to pulp ; return to range and 
cook until mixture thickens, stirring occasionally. Sift flour with 
baking powder and salt, work in Cottolene with tips of fingers, and 
mix to a soft dough with yolk of egg mixed with one-half cup of milk. 
Turn onto a floured board, knead slightly and roll out in a rectangular 
sheet one-fourth inch thick. Divide this into four pieces, longer 
than wide. Spread each with the blackberry sauce and roll up like 
jelly roll; wet the edges, press lightly to prevent unrolling. Lay on 
buttered sheet and brush tops with white of egg, sprinkle with sugar 
and a few grains cloves. Bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 
Serve hot with remaining sauce kept hot over hot water or with 

CREAMY SAUCE 



]4: cup butter. 2 tablespoons milk. 

% cup powdered sugar. 2 tablespoons Sherry wine. 

Few grains nutmeg. 

Process: Cream butter, add sugar gradually, stirring ^con- 
stantly, add milk and wine very slowly, continue beating. Add a 
sprinkle of njitmeg. To avoid having sauce curdle, milk and wine 
must be added drop by drop. 



TtZ%u»day 52 Sunday Dinners 113 

QVlentt 

Cantaloupe a la Mode 

Consomme au Riz — Cheese Balls 

Spiced Beef — Whipped Ceeam Hobsebadish Sauce 

Potatoes Italian Style — Succotash 

Peab Salad 

Peach Cottage Pudding with Ceeam 

Coffee 



CANTALOUPE A LA MODE 

Wash small ripe cantaloupe (Rockyfords) with a brush, and chill 
thoroughly. Cut in halves lengthwise and fill with Pineapple or 
Raspberry Ice. Arrange on a bed of cracked ice; serve one-half 
melon to each guest. 

RASPBERRY ICE 

4 cups water. 2 cups raspberry pulp. 

1^ cups sugar. J^ cup orange juice. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 
Process: Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar twenty 
minutes. Mash berries and rub through a fine sieve, add orange 
and lemon juice, combine with syrup, strain and freeze. Shape 
with a cqne mold and place in seed cavities of halves of canteloupe. 

CONSOMME AU RIZ 

8 cups consomme. 6 cups cold water. 

3^ cup washed rice. J^ tablespoon salt. 

Process: Add salt to boiling water, then add rice slowly and 
let cook imtil rice is soft; drain. Pour over rice six cups cold water 
to separate kernels. Add rice to hot consomme and serve with 
Cheese Balls. 



114 5 2 Sunday Dinners T^rd Sunday 



CHEESE BALLS 

4 tablespoons butter. Few grains cayenne. 

^ cup flour. 3 eggs. 

J^ cup water. 34 cup grated Edam Cheese. 

34 teaspoon salt. Cottolene. 

Process: Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add water, cook one 
minute; add flour mixed with seasonings. Cook until mixture leaves 
the sides of pan, stirring constantly. Cool slightly, add unbeaten 
eggs one at a time, add cheese. Mix well and drop from tip of 
teaspoon into deep hot Cottolene. Drain and serve immediately. 

SPICED BEEF 

Wash and wipe six pounds of beef cut from the flank. Cover 
with boiling water; bring to the boiling point and skim. Eeduce 
heat and simmer until meat is tender (time required about five hom-s), 
adding the last hour of cooking one-half cup each of carrot, onion and 
celery cut in dice, two sprays each of parsley and thyme, one of 
marjoram, six cloves, one-half teaspoon peppercorns and one table- 
spoon salt. Remove meat and reduce liquor to one and one-half 
cups; strain. Shred the meat, mix with the liquor and press in a 
granite, brick-shaped bread pan, packing soUdly. When thor- 
oughly cold, serve, cut in thin slices, with Whipped Cream Horse- 
radish Sauce (for recipe see Page 120). 

POTATOES A L'lTALIENNE 

To two cups hot riced potatoes, adti one tablespoon finely chopped 
chives, one egg yolk well beaten, whites four eggs beaten until stiff, 
one-half cup grated cheese. Season with salt, pepper and a few 
grains cayenne. Pile lightly in a well-greased baking dish and bake 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Turn dish around several times 
carefully that mixture may puff evenly. 

SUCCOTASH 

Shell lima beans, wash and cover with boiling water; heat to 
boiUng point and drain; throw away water and rinse beans, drain 
again. Cook in boiling, salted water until tender. Drain and add 



Thirdsunday $2 Sutiday Diniters lis 

to an equal quantity of hot boiled corn cut from the cob. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter. Reheat before serving. ' 

FEAR SALAD 

Wipe, pare and re^aove the cores from the desired number of 
ripe (early) pears. Cut in eighths lengthwise. Arrange on beds 
of crisp cress, or lettuce heart leaves. Bestrew with prepared red 
peppers cut in very fine rings. Serve with French Dressing, using 
lemon juice in place of vinegar. Canned red peppers may be used 
when fresh peppers are not available. To prepare peppers, plunge 
them into boiling water for a moment, cut a slice from stem ends, 
remove seeds and veins, cover with cold water until crisp; drain dry, 
and cut in fine shreds. 

PEACH COTTAGE PUDDING 

J^ cup Cottolene. 2 cups pastry flour. 

1 cup sugar. ' 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 egg. J^ teaspoon salt. 

y% cup milk. J^ teaspoon almonfl extract. 

Fresh peaches sliced. 

Process : Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly; add egg well beaten. Mix and sift flour, baking powder 
and salt; add to first mixture alternately with milk. Add extract 
and beat thoroughly. Turn into a well-greased shallow pan, and 
bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Cut in three-inch 
squares; pile thinly-sliced fresh peaches on top of each portion, 
sprinkle thickly with powdered sugar and serve with rich cream. 



116 52 Sunday Dinners JZrl 



Fourth Sunday 



(menu 



Boiled Halibut (Cold) — Vinaigrette Sauce 

Cucumber Baskets Radishes 

French Fried Potatoes — Boiled Sweet Corn 

Frozen Apricot's — Sultana Cake 

Demi Tasse 

Iced Tea 



BOILED HALIBUT — COLD 

Have a piece of HaKbut cut weighing two and one-half pounds. 
Tie in a square of cheese cloth (to prevent scum from settling on the 
flesh of fish). Cover with boiling water to which add salt and 
vinegar or lemon juice; the acid preserves the whiteness of the fish. 
Boil until the flesh leaves the bones (about thirty-five minutes). 
Drain and remove from cheese cloth. Pick out bones and remove 
skin. Place in a vessel that will preserve the shape of fish, chill and 
dispose fish on a cold serving platter on a bed of garden cress. Set 
a cucumber basket at intervals Tone for each guest), and serve with 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon chopped olives. 

}/s teaspoon black pepper. 1 tablespoon chopped pickle. 

Few, grains cayenne. 1 tablespoon chopped green or 

1 tablespoon Tarragon vinegar. red pepper. 

2 tablespoons Malt vinegar. 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 
J^ cup Olive oil. IJ^ teaspoons chopped chives. 

Process: Put salt, pepper and cayenne in bowl, add oil slowly 
stirring constantly, add remaining ingredients and blend thor- 
oughly. Chill and pour over Boiled Halibut. 



fZhI Sunday 52 Sufiduy Dtfiners 117 



CUCUMBER BASKETS 

Select long cucumbers of uniform thickness (three cucumbers 
will make six baskets), cut a slice from both the stem and blossom 
ends, pare and cut in halves crosswise; cut from each piece a section 
so as to form a handle crosswise of cucumber. Scoop out the soft 
pulp and seeds, brush each basket over lightly with olive oil and 
sprinkle with finely chopped garden cress or parsley. Fill the 
baskets with Mayonnaise Dressing or Sauce Tartare (see recipe 
Page 84). Chill and serve in nests of peppergrass or lettuce heart 
leaves. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes, cut them lengthwise in 
eight pieces of a imiform size. Soak them in cold water two hours, 
changing the water several times. Drain from water and dry 
between towels. Then fry a few at a time in deep hot Cottolene. 
Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with salt. This is an easy 
method of preparing potatoes in hot weather. The potatoes may 
be prepared beforehand and the process of cooking is both simply 
and quickly done. Be sure the Cottolene is not too hot as the 
potatoes must be cooked through, as well as browned. 

BOILED SWEET CORN 

Have the water boiling. Remove the husks and silk from the 
com and drop them at once into the boiling water; bring water quick- 
ly to boiling point and let boil rapidly five to ten minutes (depending 
somewhat on age of corn). Drain from water and arrange in a 
napkin-covered platter; serve at once. 

FROZEN APRICOTS 

Drain the apricots from the liquor in the can. Reserve liquor 
and cut fruit in one-fourth inch cubes. To the syrup add sufficient 
water to make four cups; add one cup orange juice; add one and one- 
half cups sugar. Cook five minutes, strain and pour over apricots; 
chill and freeze. Fresh apricots or peaches may be used when in 
season. The fresh fruit should be cooked until clear, in a syrup 



118 52 Sunday Dinners 1ZnLuna.y 

made of four cups of water and two cups sugar. When this mixture 
is frozen to a mush, two cups of Whipped Cream may be added, if 
one desires a richer dessert. 

SULTANA CAKE 



yi cup Cottolene. J^ cup milk. 

1 cup sugar. 2j^ cups pastry flour. 

2 eggs. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 6gg yolk. J^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup Sultana raisins. J^ teaspoon mace. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly; add well-beaten eggs and yolk. Mix and sift flour (except 
one tablespoon), baking powder and salt and mace; add to first 
mixture alternately with milk. Dredge raisins with tablespoon 
flour, add to mixture and beat thoroughly. Turn mixture into a 
well-greased, brick-shaped bread pan and bake forty minutes in a 
moderate oven. Frost if desired. 



Fm'Lnd<.y 52 Sunday Dinners 119 

QUenu 

Tomato Canape 

Cold Veal Loaf — Whipped Cream Horseradish Sauce 

Creamed New Potatoes Steamed Summer Squash 

Lettuce, Garden Cress and Onion Salad 

Sliced Peaches — Chocolate Later Cake 

Iced Coffee Lemonade 

H K 

TOMATO CANAPfi 

Fry circles of bread, cut one-third inch thick, in deep hot Cotto- 
lene. Saute slices of tomato in hot butter. Drain both on brown 
paper. Cover each circle of bread with a slice of tomato, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and a few grains cayenne. Garnish each with a 
slice of cucumber and the white of "hard boiled" eggs, cut in the 
shape of petals to represent field daisies. 

COLD VEAL LOAF 

Have the bone of a knuckle of veal sawed in three pieces at the 
market. Wash, wipe, and put in kettle with two pounds of lean 
veal, one onion sliced, six slices carrot, one blade celery broken in 
pieces, one spray parsley and one-half teaspoon peppercorns; cover 
with boiling water and cook slowly until meat is tender. Drain; 
chop meat finely and season well with salt, pepper and a few grains 
cayenne. Reduce liquor to one cup, strain and reserve. Garnish 
the bottom of a granite, brick-shaped bread pan with the white 
of "hard boiled" egg cut to resemble three daisies; put a dot of the 
yolk in center of each and arrange sprays of parsley between each 
daisy. Put a layer of meat, then a layer of thinly sliced eggs sprinkled 
with parsley, finely chopped. Cover with remaining meat; pour 
over* strained liquor, press and let stand until cold and jellied. 
Remove to serving platter, garnish with parsley and small roimd rad- 
ishes cut to resemble tulips. Slice thinly and serve with 



120 ^2 Sunday Dinners mhsunday 

WHIPPED CREAM HORSERADISH SAUCE 

4 tablespoons freshly grated Few grains cayenne. 

horseradish. 1 J^ tablespoons vinegar. 

Few drops onion juice. 34 cup heavy cream whipped. 

34 teaspoon salt. 
Process: Mix the first five ingredients thoroughly, then fold in 
the whipped cream. Chill and serve. 

CREAMED NEW POTATOES 

Cut two and one-half cups cold, boiled new potatoes in one-half 
inch cubes. Add one and one-half cups White Sauce. Season 
highly with salt and white pepper, and reheat in double boiler. 
Remove to hot serving dish and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

STEAMED SUMMER SQUASH 

Wash and cut in quarters. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender. Drain through double cheese cloth. Pass through ricer 
or mash with potato masher, and season with butter, salt and a little 
black pepper. Reheat and serve. 

LETTUCE, GARDEN CRESS AND ONION SALAD 

Separate the crisp heart leaves of two heads of lettuce; arrange 
them on a shallow serving dish to represent a full-blown rose. Pick 
over, wash and dry a bunch of garden cress, chop finely and sprinkle 
over lettuce leaves. Chop one small onion very fine and miy with 
French dressing. Pour over lettuce. Serve at once. 

SLICED PEACHES 

Scald fine, ripe peaches; remove skins, cut in halves and remove 
stones. Slice lengthwise and arrange in serving dish in layers. 
Sprinkle each layer with sugar and lemon or orange juice. Chill 
and serve with cream and sugar. 



S<3p^ofnl)e:t 



The kitchen is a country in which 
there are always discoveries to be 
made. — La Reyniere. 







JMam^^/j/mi££SM^i^kt 



122 52 Sunday Dinners ^'""^" 



First Sunday 



(m 



cnu 



Cream of Pea Sottp — Crisp Saratoga Wafers 

Braised Shoulder Veal Stuffed — Creole Sauce 

Potato Balls Spinach with Cream 

Lettuce, Radish and Onion Salad 

Apple Pie Cottage Cheese 
Cafe Noir 
H K 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP 

2 cups Marrowfat peas (or one can). Ij^ tablespoons butter. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups water. J^ cup hot cream. 

13^ cups scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 slice onion. 3^ teaspoon pepper. 

Process: Peas that are too hard to serve as a vegetable may be 
used for soup. Cover them with the cold water and cook until soft. 
Rub through sieve, reheat pulp and thicken with butter and flour 
cooked together. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, add milk 
slowly to pea mixture, stirring constantly. Add hot cream and 
seasoning. Serve with Crisp Saratoga Wafers. 

BRAISED SHOULDER OF VEAL 

Have the bones removed from five pounds of the shoulder of 
veal (reserve bones). Stuff with bread stuffing, truss in shape and 
foUow directions for Braised Beef (see Page 139). Add two sprays 
of thyme and marjoram. Serve with 

CREOLE SAUCE 

4 tablespoons Cottolene. 1 can small button mush- 

4 tablespoons flour. rooms. 

34 cup green pepper cut in 1)^ cups thick, well-seasoned 

shreds. tomato pulp. 

1 small clovegarlic. 134 cups Brown Stock. 

1 truffle cut in thin shreds. Salt, pepper and cayenne. 



ftlttLy 52 Sunday Dinners 123 

Process: -Cook pepper, onion and butter together five minutes 
without browning; add flour and cook two minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Add truffle, tomato pulp and gradually Brown Stock; con- 
tinue stirring until ingredients are well blended. Heat mushrooms 
in their own liquor, drain, and add mushrooms to sauce. Stick a 
tooth-pick through the clove of garlic, drop it into sauce and let it 
simmer fifteen minutes. Remove garlic before serving. 

POTATO BALLS 

Add to five hot mashed potatoes, one-fourth teaspoon celery 
salt, one teaspoon finely chopped parsley or chives, salt, pepper and 
three tablespoons butter, and enough hot milk to make of the con- 
sistency to handle. Shape into smooth, round balls, roll in flour, 
egg and crumbs. Fry a golden brown in deep, hot Cottolene. Dis- 
pose around Veal. 

SPINACH WITH CREAM 

Discard aU wilted leaves, remove the roots and pick over and 
wash one-half peck of spinach in several waters, to rid it from all 
sand. If young and tender, put in a stew-pan and heat gradually; 
let boil twenty-five minutes, or until soft, in its own juices and the 
water that clung to the leaves. Old spinach should be cooked in 
boiling, salted water (it vrfU require about two quarts of water to one 
peck spinach). Drain thoroughly, chop finely in a wooden bowl. 
Melt three tablespoons butter in an omelet pan; add spinaCh and cook 
four minutes, stirring constantly, sprinkle with one and one-half 
tablespoons flour, continue stirring and pour on gradually three- 
fourths cup hot, thin cream; simmer five minutes. 

LETTUCE, RADISH AND ONION SALAD 

Remove the leaves from the stalk, discarding all wilted and 
unsightly leaves. Wash and keep in cold water until crisp. Drain 
and dry on a crash towel or cheese cloth. Place between leaves thin 
slices of round, red radishes, sprinkle with finely sliced young green 
onions. Garnish with radishes cut to resemble tulips. Serve with 
French Dressing. 



124 $2 Sunday Dinners %'Zt:^ 



APPLE PIE 

5 tart apples. J^ teaspoon salt. 

J^ cup sugar. IJ^ tablespoons butter. 

yi teaspoon nutmeg. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Grated rind J^ lemon. 
Process: Line a pie pan with Plain Paste. Wipe, pare, core 
and cut apples in quarters, then in slices lengthwise. Pile them in 
lined pie pan, heaping them well in center, leaving a half-inch space 
around edge of pie. Mix sugar, nutmeg, salt, lemon juice, grated 
rind and turn over apples. Dot over with bits of butter; wet edges 
and cover with top crust; press and flute edges. Bake forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN PASTE 

\}/2, cups flour. y^ teaspoon baking powder. 

}/% teaspoon salt. J^ cup Cottolene. 

Ice Water. 
Phocess: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder. Rub in 
Cottolene (reserving one and one-half tablespoons), with tips of 
fingers. Add just enough ice water to form a soft dough, mixing 
it in with a knife. Turn on a floured board and roll out in a thin 
sheet, spread lightly with remaining Cottolene. Roll like jelly 
roll and cut in two pieces, having one piece a trifle larger than the 
other. Chill. Then stand rolls on end, press down with the hand 
and roll in circular piece to fit pie pan. The larger piece is for the 
top crust. This recipe makes the exact quantity of pastry for one 
medium-sized pie with two crusts. If desired, omit baking powder. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

Put two quarts thick sour milk in a milk pan, place it on the back 
of range where it will not boil or simmer; allow it to remain there 
until the curd has separated from the whey. Lay a double square of 
cheese cloth over a bowl, turn in the milk, lift the edges and corners 
of cloth, draw them together, tie with a piece of twine and hang it up 
to drain. When quite dry, turn into a bowl; season with salt and 
mix with a silver fork, add sweet cream until of the desired con- 
sistency. Serve very cold with hot gingerbread. 



gw5^,day 52 Sunday Dinners 125 

QVlentt 

Summer Sausage with 

Ripe Olives and Dill Pickles 

Roast Fillet Beef — Mushroom Sauce 

Parsley Potatoes Broiled Tomatoes 

Banana Fritters 

Pepper and Onion Salad 

Mock Mince Pie . Cheese 

Iced Tea 

Buttermilk 



SUMMER SAUSAGE (APPETIZER) 

Cut summer sausage in very thin slices. Dispose them on a nar- 
row platter overlapping one another. Garnish with sprays of 
peppergrass or parsley. Arrange thinly sliced dill pickles on either 
side of sausage, placing a ripe olive here and there; radishes cut to 
resemble roses may also be used. Serve as an appetizer. 

ROAST FILLET OF BEEF 

Trim a small fillet of beef weighing about four pounds into shape. 
Lard the upper side and sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with 
flour. Sprinkle small cubes of fat salt pork thickly over the bottom 
of a dripping pan, set a wire trivet or rack on pork and lay meat on 
trivet. Place in a very hot oven at first, to sear over surface. Baste 
every five minutes for the first fifteen minutes, then several times 
after during the cooking. If liked rare, it should cook thirty min- 
utes; if medium, allow thirty-five to forty minutes. Serve with 
Brown Mushroom Sauce (see Page 167) using fat in dripping pan. 

PARSLEY POTATOES 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-half inch cubes; there should 
be three cups. Blanch by parboiling five minutes in boiling salted 



126 52 Sunday Dinners I'^Lnday 

water; drain. Melt one-third cup of butter in a frying-pan, add 
potatoes, and cook over a slow fire imtil potatoes are soft and deli- 
cately browned. Melt two tablespoons Cottolene in a sauce-pan, 
add a few drops onion juice, one and one-half tablespoons flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper; stir to a smooth 
paste and pour on slowly one cup hot milk, stirring constantly. 
Remove from range and add one egg yolk slightly beaten. Pour 
sauce over potatoes and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Select four firm, smooth, ripe tomatoes. Wipe them and cut 
out the hard center around the stem ends; then cut them in halves 
crosswise. Rub the cut sides lightly with a clove of garlic and dip 
cut side in soft butter. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and buttered 
crumbs, pressing the crumbs into tomato with a broad knife. Ar- 
range them in a well-greased wire broiler and broil with skin side 
down over glowing coals or under a gas flame until soft, using care 
that they do not scorch. Remove to hot serving platter, drop a bit 
of butter on each and serve immediately. Onion juice may be used 
in place of garlic. 

BANANA FRITTERS 

3 bananas. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 cup bread flour. 34 cup cream or milk. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 egg beaten very lightly. 
14: teaspoon salt. J^ tablespoon lemon juice. 

}/2 tablespoon Sherry wine. 

Process: Sift dry ingredients together twice. To beaten egg 
add cream and combine mixtures. Force bananas through a sieve 
and mix pulp with lemon juice and sherry wine; add to batter, beat 
thoroughly, and drop by tablespoonfuls into deep, hot Cottolene. 
Drain, sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve with 

ORANGE SAUCE 

Make a syrup by boiling one cup sugar with one-fourth cup water 
and two shavings of orange rind, four minutes. Remove from 
range, lift out orange peel, add one-half tablespoon butter and one 
tablespoon each of orange and lemon juice and Sherry wine. 



lltoZfunday 52 SuTiday Dinners, 127 

PEPPER AND ONION SALAD 

Plunge a bright-red bell pepper (Ruby Eing) into boiling water, 
remove immediately and rub off the outer "shiny" skin. Cover 
with ice water to chiU and become crisp. Cut a sUce from the stem 
end and remove the seeds and veins, then cut in rings as thin as 
possible. Cut one small Spanish onion in very thin slices, separate 
the rings and "crisp" in ice water. Drain and toss together both 
onion and pepper rings. Season with salt, pepper, and pour over 
two tablespoons oil and one tablespoon vinegar. Crush the pepper 
and onion into the dressing, then pile it in nests of crisp lettuce heart 
leaves. 

MOCK MINCE PIE 

* 

% Uneeda biscuits, rolled fine. 1 cup raisins seeded and 
13^ cups sugar. shredded. 

1 cup molasses. ^ cup butter. 

J4 cup lemon juice. 2 eggs well beaten. 

2 tablespoons brandy. Cinnamon, Cloves, and 

Nutmeg. 

Process: Mix ingredients in the order given. Add spices to 
taste. Line a pie pan with Plain Paste, turn in mixture, wet edges 
and cover with top crust made of Rich Paste; press and flute edges. 
Bake thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

RICH PASTE 

\}/2 cups flour. ^ teaspoon salt. 

3^ cup Cottolene. J^ teaspoon baking powder. 

Ice water. 

Process: Mix salt with flour, cut in Cottolene (except one 
tablespoon) with a knife, moisten with cold water. Turn on a 
floured board, pat and roll out, spread with tablespoon of Cottolene 
and dredge lightly with flour, then roll sheet like a jelly roll; divide 
in two equal parts. Roll out a trifle larger than pie tin. 



128 52 Sunday Dinners nwfsZr^ 



Third Sunday 



QVlenu 

Veal, Spanish Style, (In Casserole) 

STtTFFED Potatoes — Turnips in Ckeam Sauce 

Stewed Corn and Tomatoes 

Dressed Endive 

Peach Dumplings — Sherry Sauce 

Coffee 

Cider 

-4- ^ 

VEAL, SPANISH STYLE, (IN CASSEROLE) 

2 pounds veal, cut from leg. 2 cups cooked and strained 

}4 cup fat salt pork or bacon. tomato pulp. 

5^ cup fine, soft bread crumbs. 3^ green pepper finely chopped 

1 teaspoon salt. J^ onion finely chopped. 

}/s teaspoon black pepper. 1 egg slightly beaten. 

Few grains cayenne. Soda. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. Worcestershire Sauce. 

Process: Remove all fat tissue and skin from veal; remove 
skin from pork. Pass both through meat grinder twice, add crumbs 
and seasonings, except tomato, onion and green pepper; mix thor- 
oughly and bind together with egg. Shape in balls the size of a small 
egg. RoU in flour and saute a rich brown in Cottolene made hot in 
an iron frying pan. Heat tomato pulp, add one-eighth teaspoon 
soda, one-half teaspoon salt and one-half tablespoon Worcestershire 
Sauce. Turn into a warm casserole, add chopped pepper and onion. 
Dispose balls over sauce, rinse frying pan with a little boiling water 
or Brown Stock and pour over balls. Cover and let simmer in a 
moderate oven two hours. Serve from casserole, or arrange on a 
hot platter and surround with a border of boiled rice sprinkled with 
finely chopped parsley; place a spray of parsley in each meat ball. 



ThmlZniay 52 Sunduy Dinners 129 



STUFFED POTATOES 

Wash six medium-sized, smooth potatoes. Bake, and cut off a 
lengthwise slice from each; scoop out potato with a spoon using care 
that the shells are not broken. Pass through ricer, add two table- 
spoons butter, season with salt and pepper, one-half cup hot milk 
or cream. Add two egg yolks well beaten, then fold in the stiflBy 
beaten whites. Refill shells with this mixture, using pastry bag 
and rose tube or pile it lightly with spoon (do not spread smoothly). 
Bake in a hot oven until potatoes are well puffed and browned. 

TURNIPS IN CREAM SAUCE 

Wash, pare and cut purple-top turnips in one-fourth inch cubes. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender (from forty minutes to 
one hour). Drain well and reheat in White Sauce using cream in 
place of milk in sauce. (For Cream Sauce see Page 151.) 

STEWED CORN AND TOMATOES 

Cut the corn from six ears of tender, sweet, green corn; scrape 
the cobs with back of knife. Cook until tender in as little water 
as possible, then add an equal quantity of stewed tomatoes. Add 
one-third cup butter and one tablespoon sugar. Season with salt 
and pepper, heat to boiling point and turn into hot serving dish. 

DRESSED ENDIVE 

Marinate the bleached leaves of crisp endive with French Dress- 
ing, adding one and one-half tablespoons finely chopped chives and 
one-half tablespoon Nasturtium seed cells finely chopped, to the 
dressing just before pouring over Endive. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons Cottolene. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 1/% cup cream. 
J^ teaspoon salt. Peaches. 

V/i cups granulated sugar. 23^ cups cold water. 
Pkocess: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub in 
Cottolene with tips of fingers, add cream gradually, cutting it in with 



130 



S2 Sunday Dinners 



September 
Third Sunday 



a knife. Turn on a floured board, knead slightly, pat and roll out to 
one-half inch thickness. Shape with a large biscuit cutter. Pare 
juicy, ripe peaches, cut in halves lengthwise, remove stones, cut in 
quarters and place three-quarters of a peach on each circle of dough, 
enclose them, pressing the edges together. Place in a buttered, 
granite dripping pan one and one-half inches apart, sift sugar around 
dumplings and pour cold water over sugar. Bake in a hot oven 
twenty minutes, basting three times. Serve with Hard or 

SHERRY SAUCE 

3 tablespoons butter. 34 cup cream. 

}/2 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons sherry wine. 

2 egg yolks well beaten. Few grains salt. 

}/s teaspoon nutmeg. 

Process: Cream butter, add sugar, egg yolks, salt and gradually 
the cream, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water until mixture 
coats the spoon; add sherry and beat again. Turn in a sauce boat 
and sprinkle with nutmeg. 




September 
Fourth Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners I3i 



(menu 

Tomato Soup 

Fried Chicken — Cheam Gbavy 

Baked Potatoes Corn Fritters 

Cauliflower Salad 

Peach Cake with Cream 

Coffee 



TOMATO SOUP 
(For recipe see Page 40.) 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Dress, clean and disjoint two chickens. Rub chicken over with 
a half lemon cut in half lengthwise, sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
dredge with flour. Saute in hot Cottolene until richly browned, 
turning often. Reduce heat, cover and let cook slowly until tender. 
It may be necessary to add a little moisture (about J^ cup of hot 
stock or water). Remove to serving platter and surround with 
Corn Fritters. Pass Cream Gravy. 

CREAM GRAVY 

yi cup butter. IJ^ cups well-seasoned chicken stock. 

1 slice onion. 3^ cup hot cream. 

/€ cup flour. l^ teaspoon salt. 

y^ teaspoon pepper. 

Process: Cook butter in a sauce-pan with onion until onion 
is delicately browned. Remove onion, add flour mixed with sea- 
sonings; stir to a smooth paste and brown lightly. Add hot stock 
gradually, stirring constantly. Add hot cream and beat until 
smooth and glossy. The color of this sauce is that of Caf6 au Lait. 



132 5^ Sunday Dinners IZmsu 



Fourth Sunday 



CORN FRITTERS 

2, cups grated corn. 3^ cup melted butter. 

3^ cup milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

IJ^ cup flour. }/g teaspoon pepper. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 3 eggs well beaten. 

Process: Mix corn, milk, flour, sugar and salt, add eggs. Drop 
by tablespoonfuls on a hot well-greased griddle and cook as griddle 
cakes until browned on one side; then turn and brown the other side. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

Marinate a prepared cauliflower (see recipe on Page 95) with 
French Dressing, to which add one tablespoon finely chopped 
chives. Dispose in a nest of peppergrass, water cress, endive or 
lettuce heart leaves. Sprinkle with grated Edam cheese. 

PEACH CAKE WITH SWEETENED CREAM 

2 cups flour. ^ cup rich milk. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 5 peaches. 

}^ teaspoon salt. Sultana raisins. 

^ 3 tablespoons Cottolene. Mace and sugar. 

Process: Mix and sift the flrst three ingredients. Rub in 
Cottolene with tips of flngers, add milk, mixing it in with a knife. 
This dough must be soft enough to spread in a shallow, well-buttered 
pan to the depth of one inch. (Add more milk if necessary.) Pare 
ripe, juicy peaches; cut in halves lengthwise, remove stones and 
press halves into dough (cut side up) in parallel rows, leaving a little 
space between rows. Brush peaches over with melted butter, 
sprinkle with raisins, granulated sugar and lightly with mace. 
Serve hot with Hard Sauce, or with cream sweetened and flavored 
with nutmeg. 



"■■\ 



Ov^oin^^^ 



Oh! You who have been a-fishing 
will endorse me when I say. 

That it always is the biggest fish 
you catch that gets away. 

— Eugene Field. 










,f/"'Vh, ,^'-. 



t ,_ _ 



134 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



October 
First Sunday 



QUenu 

Shrimp Cocktails 

Potato Soup — Croutons 

Boiled Cod — Egg Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes — Scalloped Tomatoes 

Pickled Beets 

Steamed Peach Pudding — Vanilla Sauce 

After— Dinner Coffee 



SHRIMP COCKTAILS 

Allow one-fourth cup shrimps broken in pieces for each Cocktail. 
Season with two tablespoons each tomato catsup, Sherry wine, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, a few drops Tobasco Sauce, one-fourth 
teaspoon finely chopped chives and salt to taste. Serve thoroughly 
chilled in Cocktail glasses. 

POTATO SOUP 

4 cups potatoes. 34 cup butter. 

1 large purple-top turnip. J^ cup flour. 

3 cups boiling water. 2 teaspoons salt. 

33^ cups scalded milk. 3^ teaspoon pepper. 

1 onion sliced. 3^ cup hot cream. 

Parsley. 

Process: Wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-fourth inch slices. 
Wash, pare and cut turnip the same. Cover with boiling water and 
cook ten minutes; drain, add onion and three cups boiling water. 
Cook until vegetables are tender; drain and reserve water. Rub 
vegetables through strainer, add water, add nulk. Reheat and bind 
with butter and flour cooked together. Add hot cream and season- 
ings. Turn into hot tureen and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 



October 
First Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 135 



BOILED FRESH COD 

Wash and wipe a four-pound cut of fresh cod. Tie it loosely 
in a piece of cheese cloth just large enough to cover fish. Place on a 
trivet in a kettle, cover with boiling water, and add three slices onion, 
three slices carrot, one spray parsley, a bit of bay leaf, three cloves, a 
tablespoon salt and one-half cup vinegar. Bring quickly to the 
boiling point, then reduce heat and simmer gently from twenty to 
thirty minutes. Hard boiling breaks up the flakes of fish and 
toughens the fibre. Drain from liquor, place fish on serving platter, 
remove the skin and pour a few spoonfuls of Egg Sauce over the fish 
and the remainder around it. Sprinkle finely chopped parsley over 
all, and garnish with hard-cooked eggs cut to resemble pond lilies. 

EGG SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter. J^ teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons flour. J^ teaspoon pepper, 

1 cup boiling water. 4 hard-cooked eggs. 

J^ cup hot cream. Parsley finely chopped. 

Peocess: Melt one-half the butter in a sauce-pan, add flour 
mixed with seasonings, pour on slowly hot water, stirring constantly. 
Boil five minutes, then add remaining butter in small bits. Continue 
stirring. Add hot cream and two eggs chopped moderately. Gar- 
nish with remaining eggs. Pour sauce around fish and sprinkle with 
parsley. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Wash, scrub and pare one dozen medium-sized potatoes. If old, 
let them stand in cold water for several hours before paring, to 
freshen them. Cover with cold water, heat to boiling point, cover 
and boil fifteen minutes, then add salt, replace cover and cook until 
potatoes are soft (about fifteen minutes longer). Drain perfectly 
dry and shake the potatoes in a current of cold air. Place sauce-pan 
in a warm place, cover with a crash towel until ready to serve. Serve 
as soon as possible, if you would have a mealy potato. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Season one quart of canned tomatoes with one and a fourth 
teaspoons salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, two tablespoons sugar, 



136 52 Sunday Dinners "plf/sumay 

one-half tablespoon grated onion and a few grains cayenne. Moisten 
one and one-half cups of soft bread crumbs with one-half cup melted 
butter. Butter a deep baking dish, sprinkle with a thick layer of 
crumbs. Pour in tomato mixture and cover with remaining crumbs. 
Bake in the oven until cooked throughout and crumbs are browned. 

PICKLED BEETS 

Prepare beets as for Buttered Beets (see Page 143). Cut them in 
slices and lay them in a stone or glass jar. Allow one shce of onion 
for each beet, one tablespoon grated horseradish, eight cloves and 
vinegar enough to cover. Let stand twenty-four hours and they 
will be ready for use. Beets thus prepared will not keep longer than a 
week. If vinegar is too strong, dilute with one-fourth part cold water. 

STEAMED PEACH PUDDING 

Fill a two-quart mold two-thirds full of pared, stoned and 
sliced peaches. Butter the inside edge of mold, also the inside of 
cover. Cover with a soft dough made by mixing and sifting two 
cups flour, one-half teaspoon salt and four teaspoons baking powder. 
Rub one tablespoon Cottolene into flour mixture with tips of fingers, 
add sufficient rich milk to make a soft dough. Sprinkle peaches 
with one-half cup sugar, one-fourth teaspoon salt and dot over with 
one tablespoon butter cut in small bits. Spread soft dough over all, 
cover closely and steam one hour. Serve at once with 

VANILLA SAUCE 

1 tablespoon corn-starch. 2 cups boiling water, 

1 cup sugar. Ij^ teaspoons vanilla. 

J/^ teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Process: Mix corn-starch, sugar and salt, add water slowly, 
stirring constantly. Boil gently eight minutes, remove from range, 
add vanilla, and butter in small bits; stir until well blended. 



October 
Second Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 137 



(menu 



Vegetable Soup 

Feied Chicken — Bechamel Sauce 

Browned Sweet Potatoes Stuffed Tomatoes 

KoLE Slaw 

Baked Apples Stuffed with Figs 

Coffee 



VEGETABLE SOUP 

J^ cup carrot. Ij^ quarts beef broth. 

J4 cup turnip. J/^ cup butter. 

J^ cup celery. 3^;tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

2 cups potato. IJ^ teaspoons salt. 

y^ cup onion. J^ teaspoon pepper. 

Process: Wash and scrape carrot, cut in tiny cubes; wash and 
pare turnip, cut same as carrot; wash, scrape and cut celery in thin 
slices; wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-fourth inch cubes; peel 
and cut onion in thin slices, mix vegetables, except potatoes, and 
cook ten minutes in butter, stirring constantly. Add potatoes, cover 
and cook three or four minutes, add beef broth which was previously 
strained and all fat removed. Cover and simmer one hour. Put 
parsley, salt and pepper in bottom of soup tureen and turn in hot 
soup. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Separate two young chickens in pieces for serving; dip in milk, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with flour, or dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs and fry in deep hot Cottolene. Cottolene should 
not be too hot the latter half of cooking chicken. Drain on brown 
paper; serve on hot buttered toast \yith Bechamel Sauce. Double 
the recipe for Bechamel Sauce (see Page 85.) 



138 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



October 
Second Sunday 



BROWNED SWEET POTATOES 

Boil sweet potatoes, remove skins and cut lengthwise in one-half 
inch slices. Cool. Dip each slice in melted butter, sprinkle with 
salt, pepper and thickly with brown sugar. Lay in a well-greased 
dripping pan and brown in a hot oven. Dispose around rim of 
platter containing Fried Chicken. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Select six firm, smooth tomatoes. Cut a thin slice from the 
blossom end. Carefully scoop out the pulp and mix it with an equal 
quantity of cooked corn, rice or bread crumbs. Season with salt, 
pepper, a few grains cayenne, three tablespoons melted butter and a 
few drops of onion juice. Refill tomato cups, replace the tops, place 
them in a buttered baking dish and bake thirty minutes. 

KOLE SLAW 

Shred half a head of cabbage very fine. Soak in cold, acidulated 
water to cover (add one tablespoon vinegar to one quart water). 
Drain and mix thoroughly with Cream Dressing. (See Page 50.) 
Chill and serve in lemon cups arranged in nests of cress or parsley. 

BAKED APPLES STUFFED WITH FIGS 

Select fine-flavored, tart apples, wipe, core and pare. Fill 
cavities with washed figs cut in pieces. Bake until tender in a hot 
oven, basting with hot sugar syrup. Serve cold with thick cream 
sweetened, and flavored vrith nutmeg. 

SUGAR SYRUP 

Cook one cup sugar and one and one-half cups water ten min- 
utes. Add two thin shavings of orange rind to syrup while 
cooking. 



°TMrdsunday 52 Sunduy Dtfiners 139 

Qfaenu 

Tomato Soup — Toasted Wafers 

Pickles Celery 

Braised Beef — Brown Gravy 

Baked Potatoes — Fried Egg Plant 

Scalloped Cabbage 

RoMAiNE — French Dressing 

Cheese Fingers 

Peach Duff — Foamy Sauce 

Cafe Noir 



TOMATO SOUP 

(For recipe see Page 40). 

BRAISED BEEF 

Select five pounds of beef from the round or rump. Sprinkle 
-with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Brown richly in a hot 
frying-pan in some of its own fat; or with fat salt pork tried out, 
turning often. Place meat in a Dutch oven or an earthen casserole 
on three tliin slices of salt pork, surround with two-thirds cup each 
of fat salt pork cut in small cubes, carrot, onion and celery, a spray 
each of parsley, thyme and marjoram. Add two cups Brown Stock 
or water, the half of a small bay leaf, two small red pepper-pods, or 
one-half teaspoon pepper-corns, four cloves. Sprinkle all with salt 
and strew top of meat with cubes of salt pork. Cover closely and 
cook in a slow oven from four to five hours, basting occasionally. 
Remove meat and strain the liquor. Rinse the vessel in which meat 
was browned with stock or water, reserve the liquor. Prepare a 
Brown Sauce with this liquor following recipe for Plain Brown Sauce 
(see Page 82). 

Serve in a sauce-boat, or turn around meat after placing on hot 
serving platter. A cup of hot, stewed and strained tomatoes may be 



140 ^2 Sunday Dinners °''°'" 



Third, Suniay 



added to the sauce, also one and one-half tablespoons of freshly 
grated horseradish root and one tablespoon of Worcestershire Sauce; 
all of which improves the flavor. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Wash and scrub with a vegetable brush eight uniform-sized 
potatoes. Place in dripping pan, and bake in hot oven forty-five 
minutes, turning when half done. Take up each potato with a towel 
and press gently to crack the skins. Put a half teaspoon butter in 
each potato and serve at once. 

FRIED EGG PLANT 

Pare a medium-sized egg plant, cut in one-fourth inch slices and 
soak in cold salt water over night. Drain and cover with cold 
water one hour, drain again and dry between towels. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in batter and fry in deep, hot Cottolene. 

FRITTER BATTER 

1 cup bread flour. ^ cup milk. 

y^ teaspoon salt. ' 2 eggs well beaten. 

Few grains white pepper. 2 teaspoons olive oil. 

Process: Mix and sift flour, salt and pepper; add milk slowly, 
stirring until batter is smooth; add olive oil and well beaten eggs. 

SC ALLOPED CABBAGE 

Cut one-half large head or one small head boiled cabbage, in 
pieces. Cover with one cup White Sauce, sprinkle with one-third 
cup grated cheese, two tablespoons finely chopped pimentos; season 
with salt, pepper, mix well. Turn into a well-greased baking dish 
and cover with buttered crumbs; place on grate in oven and bake 
until heated throughout and crumbs are browned. 

ROMAINE WITH FRENCH DRESSING 

Remove the wilted leaves from two heads of romaine, trim off 
the stalk and cut the heads in halves lengthwise (if heads are large. 



ntdsunday 5^ Sufiduy Dtfimrs i4i 

they may be cut in quarters) ; lay in cold water, cut side down, until 
crisp. Drain well, dispose on salad plates and pour over French 
Dressing. Serve two Cheese Fingers with each portion of Salad. 

CHEESE FINGERS 

Mix one Cream Cheese with an equal quantity of finely chopped 
English walnut meats; season with salt, black pepper and a few 
grains cayenne. Moisten with Cream Salad Dressing. Spread 
between thin slices of white bread and cut in strips the width of 
fingers. 

PEACH DUFF 

1 quart thinly sliced peaches. 2 cups flour, 

2 cups sugar. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 tablespoon Cottolene. 1 teaspoon salt. 

^ cup milk. 

Process: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub in 
Cottolene with tips of fingers, add milk gradually, mixing ingredients 
with a knife. Turn on a slightly floured board, knead slightly, pat 
and roll to fit top of pudding dish. Butter bottom and sides of 
dish, put in peaches and sugar in layers. Cover with dough; press 
edges over edge of dish and steam one hour. Serve in dish in which 
it was steamed. Serve with 

FOAMY SAUCE 

y^ cup butter. 2 tablespoons sherry wine. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

Yolk 1 egg. Nutmeg. 

Process: Cream butter; add sugar gradually, stirring constantly, 
yolk of egg and sherry; continue stirring. Cook over hot water 
until mixture thinly coats wooden spoon. Remove from range and 
pour over stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn in serving pitcher and 
sprinkle with nutmeg. 



142 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



October 
Fourth Sunday 



(menu 



Walnut and Olive Canape 

Clam and Tomato Consomme 

Browned Crackers 

Sweet Gherkins Piccalilli 

Veal Pot Pie with Baked Dumplings 

Buttered Beets Baked Squash 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Mock Cherry Pie Cheese 

Coffee Cider 



NUT AND OLIVE CANAPf! 

Cut stale white bread in crescents. Fry a delicate brown in 
deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper. Mix equal parts of 
finely chopped olives and English walnuts, season with a few grains 
cayenne and moisten with Mayonnaise or Boiled Salad Dressing to 
the consistency to spread. Spread fried bread with mixture and 
garnish with very thin strips of pimentos; set pimolas in center of 
each canap6. 

CLAM AND TOMATO CONSOMMfi 

To four cups of Consomme add two cups each clam water and 
tomato pulp. Clear, and add soft part of clams. Heat to boiling 
point and serve in Bouillon cups. 

TO PREPARE CLAMS 

Wash and scrub (in several waters) with a stiff vegetable brush 
two quarts of clams. Place in an agate stew pan, add one-half 
cup cold water, cover and let simmer until shells open. Remove 
clams from shells and strain liquor through a napkin. Use only the 
soft parts of clams. 



°P^rl Sunday 52 S uitday Difimrs 143 



BROWNED CRACKERS 

Spread one dozen Saltines with butter; sprinkle with a few 
grains cayenne. Brown delicately in a hot oven; serve at once. 

PICCALILLI 

3 quarts green tomatoes. 1 cup salt. 

2 heads celery. \\^ quarts cider vinegar. 

4 mild red peppers. 2 pounds brown sugar. 

2 mild green peppers. J^ cup white mustard seed. 

2 large white onions. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

2 large ripe cucumbers. \\^ teaspoons black pepper. 

Process: Chop the vegetables, sprinkle with salt and let stand 
over night. In the morning drain and press in a coarse crash towel 
to remove all the acrid juice possible. Add vinegar, sugar and spices 
and simmer until vegetables are tender and clear. Sterilize fruit 
jars and fill to overflowing. Seal and store. 

VEAL POT PIE WITH BAKED DUMPLINGS 

Cut two pounds of veal from the leg in one-inch cubes. Add a 
fourth-inch thick shce of salt pork, cut in very small cubes. Cover 
with boiling water. Add one small carrot sliced, one stalk celery 
bi-oken in pieces, and two slices onion. When half done add one- 
half tablespoon salt. Cook until meat is tender. Remove the meat 
and strain the broth; thicken broth with flour diluted with cold 
water. Put meat into a baking dish and pour over enough of the 
thickened broth to barely cover the meat. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Make a soft dough by mixing and sifting one and one-half 
cups pastry flour, one-half teaspoon salt, two and one-half teaspoons 
baking powder; rub in three tablespoons Cottolene with tips of 
fingers, then add milk enough to make a soft dough and drop by 
tablespoonf uls upon meat — (dumplings should set upon the meat 
and not sink into gravy) close together to cover the surface. Bake 
thirty minutes in a hot oven. Serve remaining gravy in a sauce- 
boat. 

BUTTERED BEETS 

Wash and scrub beets with a vegetable brush, being careful not 
to break the skin. Cook in boiling water to cover (about an hour 



144 S2 Sunday Dinners °Ms.ni.y 

for small young beets, and old beets until tender). Drain and rub 
off the skins at once; slice, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot over 
with bits of butter. Serve hot. 

BAKED SQUASH 

Cut Hubbard squash in pieces for serving. Remove seeds and 
stringy portion. Put one-half teaspoon molasses in each portion 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bake in a hot oven until tender. 
Put a piece of butter on each portion and serve in the shell, 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Select six smooth, ripe tomatoes. Scald quickly and remove 
skins. Cut a slice from stem ends, scoop out pulp and chill tomato 
cups. Drain the pulp and add an equal quantity of crisp celery cut 
in small pieces, cucumber cut in small dice, and shrimp broken in four 
pieces. Moisten with Mayonnaise Dressing. Refill tomato cups, 
put a rose of Mayonnaise on top of each, using pastry bag and rose 
tube. Serve in lettuce heart leaves. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

Mix one and one-half cups cranberries chopped moderately, 
three-fourths cup seeded and shredded raisins, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon flour and a sprinkle of salt. Pile this mixture in a pie 
pan lined with Plain Paste. Dot over with one tablespoon butter. 
Add two tablespoons orange juice. Cover with Rich Paste and 
bake as other pies. 




\oj^e/y7j^e/^ 



A n odor rich comes stealing, 
From out the oven bright, 
That sets my pulse a-reeling. 
And gives my heart delight. 
—R. R. 



146 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



November 
First Sunday 



(menu 



Oysters on the Half Shell 

Consomme Ditchess — Imperial Sticks 

Cucumber Pickles Celery 

Rolled Rib Roast of Beep — Brown Gravy 

Franconia Potatoes Baked Tomatoes 

Spiced Crab Apples 

EscABOLLE Salad 

' Graham Plum Pudding with Brown Sugar Sauce 

Coffee 



CONSOMME DUCHESS 

(For recipe see Page 15.) 

ROLLED RIB ROAST OF BEEF 

Have the ribs removed, meat rolled and skewered in shape, from 
a five-pound rib roast of beef, at the market, (have ribs and trim- 
mings sent with roast). Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
dredge with flour and arrange on rack in dripping pan. Place in a 
hot oven and, when slightly brown, reduce heat and baste every ten 
minutes for the first half hour with fat in pan, afterwards every 
fifteen minutes during cooking. (If cooked rare it will require one 
hour aud fifteen minutes.) 

BROWN GRAVY 

Drain and strain fat in the pan — return three tablespoons to 
dripping pan, add four and one-half tablespoons flour and brown 
richly (do not burn flour), add slowly one and one-half cups of Brown 
Stock or boiling water, stirring constantly. Season with salt, pepper, 
and one-half teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet. 



No^en^er ^^ Sufiduy Dinmrs 147 



Fir si Sunday 



FRANCONIA POTATOES 

Wash and pare six medium-sized potatoes; parboil five minutes. 
Drain dry. Place on grate around roast beef. Baste with fat in 
pan when basting roast. Bake from thirty to thirty-five minutes, turn- 
ing often or when basting roast. Sprinkle with salt and serve sur- 
rounding rolled roast, alternating with Stuffed Tomatoes. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Select six smooth, firm, ripe tomatoes. Wash, wipe and cut a 
slice from the stem end; scoop out the seeds and soft pulp. Mijj 
with the pulp an equal amount of corn cut from the cob, one table- 
spoon finely chopped green pepper, half tablespoon finely chopped 
onion. Season with salt and pepper, add one and one-half table- 
spoons melted butter and a teaspoon salt. Mix well and refill to- 
mato cups; sprinkle tops with buttered crumbs. Place tomatoes in a 
granite dripping pan and bake until tomatoes are soft and crumbs 
are brown. Remove to serving dish with a broad knife and serve. 

SPICED CRAB APPLES 

Pick over, wash and drain firm crab apples, do not remove the 
stems. (Apples must not be too ripe). For eight pounds of fruit 
allow four pounds of sugar, one quart vinegar, one-fourth cup whole 
cloves, one-foiuth cup stick cinnamon broken in pieces. Boil sugar, 
vinegar and spices ten minutes. Strain and tie spices loosely in a 
piece of cheese cloth. Put fruit in strained liquor, also bag of spices, 
and cook slowly until fruit can be easily pierced with a small wooden 
skewer (tooth-pick). Remove fruit and fill a sterilized stone jar. 
Simmer liquor slowly until reduced to half the original quantity; 
pour over fruit. Lay bag of spices on top; seal and store. 

ESCAROLLE SALAD 

Marinate the bleached leaves of two heads of escarolle with 
French Dressing. Chill one hour before serving that it may be crisp. 
Sprinkle thickly with finely chopped chives and a sweet, red, bell 
pepper chopped very fine or cut in fine thread-like rings. 



148 



S2 Sunday Dimiers 



November 
First Sunday 



GRAHAM PLUM PUDDING 



IJ^ cups Graham flour. 
1 cup N. O molasses, 
}/2 cup milk. 
1 cup seeded raisins. 
1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Process: Sift flour, spices, salt and soda; add raisins, molasses, 
milk and eggs, beat thoroughly, then add melted Cottolene. Turn 
into well-greased brown bread molds and steam four hours. Serve 
with 

BROWN SUGAR SAUCE 



34 teaspoon cloves. 

2 eggs well beaten. 

^2 teaspoon soda. 

}/2 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons Cottolene, 



5 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup soft brown sugar. 



'/2 tablespoon vanilla. 
I's cup thick cream. 



Process: Roll sugar, sift and add gradually to cream, stirring 
constantly. Cream butter and add first mixture slowly, continue 
stirring. Add vanilla and beat thoroughly with a whip. 




s^oZ Sunday 5^ Sufiday Dt/iners 149 

(YKlenu 

Consomme — Bread Sticks 

Celery Hearts Mustard Pickles 

Roast Venison Wine Sauce 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes Creamed Celery 

Spiced Peaches 

Pepper and Grape Fruit Salad 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Nut Bread Sandwiches 

Frozen Rice Pudding 

CoiiS'OTE Pineapple 

Stuffed Dates Salted Nuts 

Cafe Noir 



CONSOMME 

4 lbs. thickest part of hind 3 tablespoons butter. 

beef shin. 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 lb. marrow-bone. 1 teaspoon peppercorns. 

3 lbs. knuckle of veal. 3^ dozen cloves. 

4 cups chicken stock. 1 small bay leaf. 

1 / u i • 2 sprays parsley. 

yh cup each, cut m „ '^ f. 

cubes. ^P'"*^^ thyme. 

2 sprays marjoram 
1 medium-sized onion sliced. 4 quarts cold water. 

Process: Wipe the meat and bone with a piece of cheese-cloth 
wrung from cold water. Remove the meat from beef shin and cut 
it in one-inch cubes. Remove the marrow from bone and brown 
one-half the meat in the marrow, stirring constantly. Put remain- 
ing half in stock pot with cold water, add veal cut in small cubes, 
browned beef and bones. Let stand thirty-five minutes. Bring 
slowly to boiling point, skim and let simmer — closely covered — for 



Carrot 
Celery 
Turnip 



150 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



November 
Second Sunday 



three hours. Add chicken stock and continue simmering for two 
hours. Melt butter in frying pan, add the vegetables and cook 
five minutes, stirring constantly; then add to soup with remaining 
ingredients. Cook one and one-half hours. Strain, cool, remove fat 
and clear. 

BREAD STICKS 

1 cup scalded milk or water. 1 yeast cake dissolved in 

}4 cup Cottolene. 34 cup lukewarm water. 

1 teaspoon salt. White 1 egg well beaten. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 3^ to 4 cups of flour. 

Process: Put butter, salt and sugar in mixing bowl. Add milk. 
When lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake, white of egg, and flour, 
reserving one-half cup. Knead until smooth and elastic; cover and 
set to rise until light, then shape first in small balls, then roll in the 
board (without flour) with the hands until about seven inches in 
length, using care that they are of a uniform size, rounding the ends. 
They should be about the size of a lead pencil. Cover and let rise. 
Just before putting them in the oven, brush them over lightly with 
melted butter and sprinkle thiem with salt. Bake in a slow oven, 
browning them dehcately. 

ROAST VENISON 

Wipe meat with a piece of cheese-cloth wrung from cold water, 
spread meat generously with soft Cottolene and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Place on rack in dripping pan, and dredge meat and 
bottom of pan with flour. Add three slices of onion, six slices of 
carrot, three stalks of celery cut in inch pieces. Bake one hour in a 
hot oven, basting every ten minutes for the first half-hour, after- 
wards occasionally. Serve with the following Wine Sauce. (Mut- 
ton may be prepared in same manner). 

WINE SAUCE 

Put four tablespoons butter in a sauce-pan, brown richly; add 
five tablespoons flour and continue browning, stirring constantly. 
Pour on slowly one and one-half cups Brown Stock. Heat to boiling 
point and add one-third cup Madeira Wine and one-third cup cur- 



November 
Second Sunday 



S2 Sunday Thinners 151 



rant jelly previously whipped. When jelly is well blended with 
sauce, strain and serve piping hot. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash, pare thinly sweet potatoes, cover with boiling salted water 
and cook until soft. Press them through potato ricer. There 
should be two cups. Add four tablespoons butter, salt if necessary, 
and two tablespoons hot cream or milk. Beat with a slotted spoon 
until very light. Press again through potato ricer into hot dish. 

CREAMED CELERY 

Wash, scrape and cut celery in one-half inch pieces ;'th9re should 
be two cups. Cover with boiling salted water and cook until tender. 
Drain and reheat in one and one-fourth cups of 

CREAM SAUCE 

2 tablespoons Cottolene. Y^ teaspoon pepper. 

23^ tablespoons flour. V/i cups hot milk or 

J^ teaspoon salt. thin cream. 

Peocess: Melt Cottolene in a sauce pan, add flour, salt and pep- 
per, stir to a smooth paste and pour on slowly hot milk or cream, 
stirring constantly. Beat with a wire whip until smooth and glossy. 

PEPPER AND FRUIT SALAD 

Select the desired number of uniform-sized peppers, having half 
red and half green. Cut a slice from the stem ends, remove the seeds 
and veins; arrange them on beds of water cress, pepper grass, chicory 
or lettuce. Fill peppers with the pulp of grapefruit cut in large 
cubes, Malaga grapes skinned, seeded and cut in halves lengthwise, 
and butter nut meats broken in pieces, allowing twice the quantity 
of grapefruit as grapes and one cup of nut meats. Moisten with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. Fill peppers. Place a rosette of Mayon- 
naise on top of each pepper, using pastry bag and rpse tube. Sprinkle 
the green peppers with finely chopped green peppers, and the red 
peppers with chopped red peppers. Garnish top of each with the 
half of a butternut meat. 



152 5^ Sunday Dinners '"""^'' 



Second Sunday 



NUT BREAD SANDWICHES 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 yeast cake dissolved in 

1 tablespoon Cottolene. J<£ cup lukewarm water. 
13^ teaspoons salt. 1 cup white flour. 

2 tablespoons sugar or molasses. Entire wheat flour. 

1 cup pecan meats broken in pieces. 

Process: Put Cottolene, salt and sugar (or molasses) in a large 
mixing bowl and pour on scalded mil k; when lukewarm add dis- 
solved yeast cake, white flour, two cups entire wheat flour and 
nut meats. Mix well and turn on a well-floured board. Add more 
flour and knead until dough is smooth and elastic. Return to bowl, 
cover with a cloth; set to rise in a warm place. When more than 
double its bulk, turn on slightly floured board, knead and shape in a 
loaf. Place in a well-greased, brick-shaped pan (pan should be 
half full). Cover, let rise again to top of pan and bake in a moderate 
oven fifty minutes to one hour. When twenty-four hours old, cut 
in thin slices, remove crusts, spread one-haK the slices generously 
with cream cheese, cover with remaining slices and cut in triangles. 

FROZEN RICE PUDDING WITH COMPOTE OF 
PINEAPPLE 

3^ cup rice well washed. Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 cup cold water. '^ cup sugar. 

13^ cups milk. 2 cups whipping cream. 

J^ teaspoon salt. 

Process: Add cold water to rice and cook in double boiler thirty 
minutes. Drain, return to double boiler, add milk and cook until 
rice is tender, then rub through puree strainer. Beat egg yolks very 
light, add sugar and salt, then pour slowly on hot rice. Cook until 
mixture thickens, cool and half freeze. Then fold in the cream, 
whipped until stiff. Fill a round mould, pack in salt and ice, let 
stand two or three hours. Drain sUces of canned pineapple; add 
one-half cup sugar to liquor and two shavings orange peel. Place 
on range and reduce slowly to a thick syrup. Cut slices of pine- 
apples in half crosswise, lay them in syrup for two hours. Unmould 
pudding and garnish with the pineapple, placing cut side down. 



TMrdsZnday $2 Sufiduy Dinmrs 153 



EDITOR'S NOTE: 

This menu would also prove very acceptable for a Thanksgiving Day Dinner. 



{m( 



Oyster Soup 

Crisp Oyster Crackers 

Celery Pepper Mangoes 

Roast Turkey 

Bread Stuffing Giblet Sauce 

Cranberry Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes — Baked Hubbard Squash 

Sweet Corn, New England Style Creamet) Onions 

Spiced Pears Hot Slaw 

Thanksgiving Pudding Drawn Butter Sauce 

Pumpkin Pie Apple Pie 

Fruits — Nuts — Raisins — Stuffed Dates 

Water Biscuit — Cheese 

Cafe Noib 

H 1. 

OYSTER SOUP 

(For recipe see Page 162.) 

ROAST TURKEY 

Select a plump, ten-pound young turkey; dress, clean, stuff and 
truss in shape; place it on thin slices of fat pork laid in the bottom 
of dripping pan; rub the entire surface with salt, sprinkle with pepper 
and dredge with flour. Place in a hot oven and brown delicately. 
Turn and brown back of turkey; then turn breast side up; continue 
browning and basting every ten minutes until bird is evenly and 
richly browned. Add two cups water to fat in pan; continue basting 
every fifteen minutes until bird is tender, which may be determined 
by piercing leg with small wooden skewer. It will require from three 
to three and one-half hours, depending upon the age of the bird. If 
the turkey is browning too rapidly, cover with a piece of heavy paper 



154 5^ Sunday Dinners '"""^" 



Third Sunday 



well-buttered, placed over turkey buttered side down. Remove the 
skewer and strings before placing it on serving platter. 

GIBLET SAUCE 

Drain the liquid from the pan in which the turkey was roasted. 
Take six tablespoons of the fat, strain the latter through a fine 
sieve. Return the strained fat to the dripping pan and place on the 
range. Add seven tablespoons of flour, stir to a smooth paste and 
brown richly, bein^ careful not to burn the mixture. Then pour on 
slowly while stirring constantly, three cups of stock (in which the 
neck, pinions and giblets were cooked). Briag it to the boiling pr>iat, 
and season to taste. Chop the giblets very fine, first removing the 
tough parts of the gizzard; then reheat them in sauce, and serve. 

GRA?fDMA'S BREAD STUEFIKG 

Remove the crust from two small baker's loaves; slice and pick 
in small bits; season with one-half teaspoon pepper, two and one- 
half teaspoons salt, one-half teaspoon powdered sage, and one medi- 
um-sized onion finely chopped; mix well, using two "forks; melt 
two-thirds cup of butter in three-fourths cup boUiag water; add to 
first mixture; toss lightly with forks; add two eggs slightly beaten, 
mix well, and fill well the body and breast of turkey. If bread is 
very stale, more moisture may be added. If a crumbly stuffing is 
desired, omit eggs. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Pick over and wash one quart cranberries. Seed two-thirds 
cup raisins; add to cranberries; add one cup boiling water and boil 
twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve, and add to pulp two cups 
sugar and two-thirds cups scalded seeded raisins; cook five- minutes, 
stirring constantly. Turn into a mold previously wet with cold 
water. Chill and serve. 

SWEET CORN NEW ENGLAND STYLE 

Chop one can of corn or two cups of green com fine. Add three 
eggs slightly beaten, one-half tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, 
one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon melted butter and two 
cups scalded milk. Turn into a buttered baking dish or into in- 



TMTsZnday $2 Suficlay Difiners 1S5 

dividual ramekins, and bake in a slow oven until solid or custard- 
like. Serve in baking dish. 

CREAMED ONIONS 

Remove the skins from one dozen medium-sized onions, under 
water — to prevent the odor from penetrating the fingers — or grease 
the fingers before beginning to peel them. Drain, place them in a 
sauce-pan, and cover with cold water; bring quickly to the boiling- 
point and boil five minutes. Drain and cover with boiling salted 
water; let cook uncovered until tender (about one hour), but not 
broken. Prepare a thin cream sauce made as follows: 

CREAM SAUCE 

Melt three tablespoons butter in a sauce-pan; add three table- 
spoons flour; stir to a smooth paste. Add one and one-half ciips 
hot thin cream or milk; season with salt and pepper. Reheat onions 
in sauce; turn in hot serviag-dish, and sprinkle with one-half tea- 
spoon finely chopped parsley. 

HOT SLAW 

Shave one-half head white cabbage as fine as possible, using a 
sharp knife. Serve with a dressing made of yolks of two eggs 
slightly beaten; add one-fourth cup each of hot water and hot vinegar, 
slowly beating constantly, four tablespoons butter, a few drops onion 
juice, one-half teaspoon salt, and sift in one-half teaspoon groimd 
mustard and one-eighth teaspoon pepper. Stir this mixture over 
hot water until it thickens to the consistency of cream; add to cab- 
bage; mix well; place on range, stirring constantly until mixture is 
heated throughout. Two tablespoons of sugar may be added. 

THANKSGIVING PUDDING 

y% cup Cottolene creamed. 34 teaspoon cloves. 

1 cup molasses. J^ teaspoon allspice. 

1 cup buttermilk. 3^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

3 cups flour. Ij^ cups seeded and shredded raisins. 

1 teaspoon soda. M cup currants. 

IJ^ teaspoons salt. 3 tablespoons flour for dredging 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. fruit. 



156 $2 Sunday Dinners ^°""^'' 



Thiri Sunday 



Process: Cream Cottolene. Add molasses and milk. Sift 
flour, soda, salt and spices together; add gradually to first mixture; 
beat thoroughly. Mix raisins and currants; dredge them with flour 
and add to batter; mix well. Turn into a well-buttered tube mold; 
fill two-thirds full; place on buttered cover; set on trivet; surround 
with boiling water and steam three hours. Serve with 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE 

}4 cup butter. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons flour. J^ cup sugar. 

IJ^ cups boiling water. M cup brandy. 

J^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

Pbocess: Divide the butter into two equal parts. Melt one 
part in a sauce-pan; add flour, and stir to a smooth paste; add boiling 
water slowly, stirring constantly; let come to boiling point. Re- 
move to side of range, and add remaining butter in small bits; con- 
tinue beating. Then add salt, sugar, brandy and nutmeg. Beat 
again, and serve very hot. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1J4 cups steamed and strained pumpkin. Grated rind J^ lemon. 

2 tablespoons flour. }/2 teaspoon ginger. 

1 cup soft brown sugar. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon rose water. J^ teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 tablespoon brandy. 2 eggs slightly beaten. 

Juice 1 lemon. 1}/^ cups milk. 

I Process: Mix ingredients in the order given. Turn in pie-pan 
lined with pastry. Bake in a hot oven for the first five minutes to 
set pastry; then reduce heat and bake slowly twenty-five minutes. , 



pZihsunday 5^ SuTiday Dinners 157 

Qflflentt 

Cream of Onion Soup 

Celery Mixed Pickles 

Stewed Chicken — Tea Biscuit 

Mashed Potatoes 

Spiced Watermelon Rind 

November Salad 

Squash Pie — Whipped Cream 

Coffee Sweet Cider 



-k- 



CBEAM OF ONION SOUP 

6 medium-sized onions sliced. 3 tablespoons butter. 

1 quart cold water. 4 tablespoons flour. 

1 green pepper chopped. 1 egg yolk. 

2 cups scalded milk. Parmesan cheese. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Process: Cook onion and pepper in two tablespoons butter 
five minutes, without browning; add water and cook until onions 
are soft (about forty minutes). Rub through a sieve. Melt re- 
maining butter, add flour and stir to a paste; add gradually scalded 
milk, stirring constantly. Combine mixtures, add seasonings. 
Heat to boiling point, remove from range, add yolk of egg slightly 
beaten. Pass Parmesan cheese and hot, crisp crackers. Two 
tablespoons cheese may be added to soup when adding egg yolk. 
Serve very hot. 

CHICKEN STEW WITH TEA BISCUIT 

Dress, clean and cut up a fowl. Place in stew pan, cover with 
boiling water. Add three slices onion, one gtalk celery broken in 
pieces, six slices carrot, spray of parsley, one-half teaspoon pepper- 
corns and a small bit bay leaf. Heat to boiUng point, skim, cover 



158 52 Sunday Dinners '^'""^'' 



Fourth Sunday 



and simmer slowly until meat is tender; the last hour of cooking add 
one tablespoon salt. Remove chicken, add one cup thin cream, 
strain stock and thicken with flour diluted with cold milk or water. 
Add one-half tablespoon finely chopped parsley. Serve with Tea 
Biscuit. If a richer sauce is desired, butter may be added to stock. 

TEA BISCUIT 

2 cups flour. ^ teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons Cottolene. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

^ cup milk. 
Process: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder, add 
Cottolene and rub it in lightly with tips of fingers. Add milk and 
mix to a soft dough with a knife. Toss on a floured board, pat and 
roll to one-half inch thickness. Shape with a small biscuit cutter, 
place close in buttered pah and bake 15 minutes in hot oven. 

NOVEMBER SALAD 

Arrange thin sKces of crisp Spanish onion in nests of bleached 
chicory leaves. Pile on onion Jonathan apples pared and cut in 
one-half inch cubes, celery hearts cut in small pieces and fresh 
English walnut meats cut in quarters. There should be an equal 
quantity of apples and celery, and one cup of nut meats to two cups 
each of the others. Moisten with Mayonnaise, sprinkle each portion 
with finely chopped green pepper. 

SQUASH PIE 

1 cup squash steamed and 4 tablespoons brandy or 

strained. Sherry. 

1 cup cream or rich milk. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 cup sugar. IJ^ teaspoons nutmeg. 

3 eggs sHghtly beaten. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

Salt. 
Process: Mix the ingredients in the order given, stir until 
ingredients are well blended. Line a deep, perforated pie pan with 
Rich Paste; brush over with shghtly beaten white of egg. Turn in 
squash mixture and bake in a moderate oven. Serve cold with 
whipped cream sweetened and fiavored with mace. 



''Merry Christmas to friends! 
Merry Christmas to foes! 
The world' s bright with joy , so 

Forget all your woes. 
The earth's full of beauty , of 

Love and good cheer. 
Merry Christmas to all and a 
Happy New Year. ' ' 

— Ayion. 





>'A>^..9m<».s 




160 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



December 
First Sunday 



Qfjflenu 



Scotch Potato Soup 

PoKK Tenderloin Lyonnaise 

Baked Apples 

Scalloped Potatoes Fried Egg Plant 

Bermuda Salad 

Apricot Dumplings — Hard Sauce 

Coffee 
H 1- 

SCOTCH POTATO SOUP 

(For recipe see Page 38.) 

PORK TENDERLOIN LYONNAISE 

Wipe and split two large pork tenderloins in halves lengthwise; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Melt two table- 
spoons each of Cottolene and butter in an iron frying pan, and brown 
tenderloin richly on both sides in the hot fat. Remove to well- 
greased dripping pan and add to fat three onions thinly shced; cook 
until delicately browned, stirrir^g often. Sprinkle over onions two 
tablespoons flour, stir well. Put two tablespoons vinegar into one- 
half cup hot water, add slowly to onions, mix thoroughly.. Lay 
tenderloins over onions, cover closely and cook in the oven until 
' meat is tender. Dispose tenderloin on hot serving platter and pour 
over contents of frying pan. Vinegar may be omitted and more 
water added. 

BAKED APPLES 

Wipe and core eight tart apples; arrange them in a granite drip- 
ping pan. Fill cavities with sugar and drop one-fourth teaspoon 
butter on top of each, sprinkle with cinnamon, sprinkle round one- 
half cup sugar and pour on one cup cold water. Bake in a slow oven 
until soft, basting often with syrup in pan. Dispose on serving dish 
and sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Wash, pare and slice six medium-sized potatoes. Butter a 
quart baking dish, lay in a layer of potatoes, sprinkle with salt, 



P^Z,iay 52 Sunday Dinners I6I 

pepper, and dot over with bits of butter, dredge with flour and 
sprinkle lightly with chives. Repeat until potatoes are used and 
two tablespoons each of butter, flour and chives. Pour over one 
and one-half cups milk. Cover and bake one hour in the oven. 
Remove cover and brown top. Serve in baking dish. 

BERMUDA SALAD 

Slice thinly three or four Bermuda onions. Sprinkle with one 
tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt and cover with ice water. Let 
stand three hours. Drain and serve with French Dressing. 

APRICOT DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour. 1 tablespoon Cottolene. 

}/^ teaspoon salt. 1 cup thick cream. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. Apricots. 

Process: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder, rub in 
Cottolene with tips of fingers, add cream, cutting it into flour mixture 
with a knife. Mix well. Turn on a floiu-ed board, knead slightly 
and roll out to one-half inch thickness. Shape with a large biscuit- 
cutter and place two halves of peeled apricots (drained from the 
syrup in the can) on each circle. Enclose them, pressing edges of 
dough together. Place them in a well-buttered granite dripping 
pan, one and one-half inches apart; sprinkle round them one cup 
granulated sugar, pour around two and one-half cups cold water. 
Bake ^ in a hot oven twenty minutes, basting three times during 
cooking. Serve with 

HARD SAUCE 

Yi cup butter. 1 cup powdered sugar. 

Sherry wine, brandy or vanilla. Nutmeg. 

Process: Cream butter, add sugar slowly, stirring constantly 
(this gives sauce a fine, smooth grain). Flavor as desired and pass 
through pastry bag and rose tube onto serving dish. Sprinkle with 
nutmeg. 



162 52 Sunday Dinners ^""^^ 



Second Sunday 



(menu 



Oystek Soup 

Boiled Leg of Mutton — Capek Sauce 

Savory Rice — Steamed Squash 

Stuffed Egg Plant 

Lima Bean Salad 

Graham Bread Sandwiches 

Fig Pudding ' 

Cafe Noir 



OYSTER SOUP 

1 quart select oysters. J^ cup butter. 

4 cups scalded milk. ^ teaspoon salt. 

1 stalk celery broken in pieces. J^ teaspoon pepper. 

Process: Place oysters in a colander; pour over one cup cold 
water. Take up each oyster with the fingers to remove bits of 
shells, reserve the liquor. Heat to boiling point and strain through 
double cheese cloth, set aside. Scald milk with celery, remove 
celery and add strained oyster liquor to milk. Plump oysters in 
their own liquor, take up with a perforated skimmer and lay over 
butter and seasonings, place in a hot soup tureen. Strain liquor into 
milk mixture and pour the latter over oysters. Serve at once with 
crisp, hot oyster crackers. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON 

Wipe meat; pound gently all over with a cleaver. Place in a 
kettle and cover with cold water, add one small carrot sliced, one 
turnip sliced, four sUces onion, two sprays parsley, a bit of bay leaf 
and one-half teaspoon peppercorns. Cover and bring quickly to 
boiling point; boil five minutes. Skim. Reduce heat and simmer 



°"""'" 52 Sunday Dinners 163 



Second Sunday 

until meat is tender (from two to three hours). Add one tablespoon 
salt the last hour of. cooking. Serve with 

CAPER SAUCE 

3 tablespoons butter. J^ teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons flour. J^ teaspoon pepper. 

Ij^ cups strained mutton broth J^ cup capers, 
(or hot water). 

Process: Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add flour mixed with 
seasonings. Stir to a paste and pour on slowly broth in which 
mutton was boiled, first removing fat. Beat until smooth and glossy, 
add capers and heat to boiling point. Serve in sauce-boat. 

SAVORY RICE 

Cook one cup well-washed rice in three quarts of boiling water 
until .partially softened. Drain; add to rice two cups of well-sea- 
soned White Stock; turn into double boiler and steam until rice is 
soft and stock absorbed. Stir in one-fourth cup butter, one table- 
spoon finely chopped chives or parsley. Mix well with a fork and 
turn into hot serving dish. Sprinkle with pepper. 

STEAMED SQUASH 

Cut a marrow squash in slices, remove the seeds and stringy 
portions, pare and lay in a steamer. Cook over boiling water until 
tender. Drain perfectly dry. Mash and season with butter, salt, 
pepper and a little sugar. Serve hot with tiny dots of butter over 
top. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Cut a slice from the stem end of a large egg plant. Remove 
the inside, leaving a shell-one-eighth inch thick. Cut pulp in one- 
half inch cubes, and cook in boiling salted water until tender; drain. 
Cook two tablespoons butter with one onion finely chopped, until' 
delicately colored (not fcrown), add one tablespoon finely chopped 
parsley. Mix with egg plant, season with salt and pepper, and refill 
shell. Cover with one-half cup buttered crumbs and bake in the 
oven until heated throughout and crumbs are brown. Serve in shell. 



164 52 Sunday Dinners s^Zisumay 

LIMA BEAN SALAD 

2 cups or Cream Dressing. 

1 can lima beans. 2 hard-cooked eggs. 
French dressing. 1 tablespoon finely chopped 

cjiives. 

Process: Cook beans in boiling salted water until tender; drain. 
If canned French lima beans are used, drain from liquor in can and 
rinse in cold water. Cover beans with French Dressing, let stand 
one hour. Drain and sprinkle with chives (onion juice may be 
used). Mix with Cream Dressing and arrange in nests of lettuce' 
heart leaves. Garnish with eggs cut in quarters lengthwise; dip 
sharp edge in French Dressing, then in finely chopped chives or 
parsley. 

GRAHAM BREAD SANDWICHES 

Rub one cream cheese to a paste, add six olives finely chopped 
and one-half cup finely chopped pecans. Spread thin sUces of 
graham bread with chive butter. Spread an equal number slices of 
bread with cheese mixture. Lay one of each together, press edges, 
trim ofiE crusts and cut diagonally across in triangles. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

4 cups boiling water. 1 yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tablespoons sugar. J^ cup lukewarm water. 

1 taljlespoon salt. 8 cups Graham flour, 

2 tablespoons Cottolene. 6 cups white fiour. 

Process: Put sugar, salt and Cottolene in large mixing bowl. 
Pour on boiling water; when lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake. 
Sift together Graham and white flour, reserving one cup' white floui . 
'for kneading. Add flour gradually to water mixture, stirring con- 
stantly; beat as mixture becomes stiff. Turn on a well-floured 
board and knead until dough is smooth and elastic. Rteturn dough 
to bowl, cover and set to rise in a warm place. When dough has 
doubled its bulk, cut it down with a knife without removing from 
bowl; cover and set to rise again. When double in bulk, knead 
slightly, weigh dough and divide into one-pound loaves. Shape 
loaves, place two loaves in each well-greased, brick-shaped bread 



December 
Second Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 



165 



pan, brush between loaves with melted Cottolene. (Thete will be 

six loaves.) Cover and set to rise; when light, bake one hoiir in a 

"bread oven." 

CHIVE BUTTER 

Cream one-fourth cup butter; add two tablespoons very finely 
chopped chives. Season with a few grains salt and cayenne. 

FIG PUDDING 



}/^ cup milk. 1 

1 cup soft brown sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Grated rind of half an orange. 



1 cup chopped washed figs. 

J^ cup Cottolene. 

3 eggs well beaten. 

2J^ cups soft bread crumbs 

Process: Cover bread crumbs with milk. Mix Cottolene with 
figs. To the milk mixtiu-e add eggs, sugar, salt and orange rind; 
combine mixtures. Beat thoroughly and turn into a well-greased 
tube mold; cover and steam three hours. Serve with Brandy 
or Vanilla Sauce. 














166 ^2 Sunday Dinners 



December 
Third Sunday 



QVlentt 



Cream of Carrot Soup 

Pot Roast of Beef — Mushroom Sauce 

Browned Potatoes Parsley Onions 

Parsnip Fritters 

Cream Cold Slaw 

Steamed Snow Balls — Sauce Souffle 

Coffee — Tea 



CREAM OF CARROT SOUP 

2 cups chopped carrots. 2 cups scalded milk. 

1 small onion sliced. J^ cup hot cream. 

2 sprays parsley. J4 cup butter. 

J4 cup washed rice. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 cups water. Salt, pepper, 

, Process: Cook carrots in water until tender. Rub through 
sieve, reserving the liquor. Cook rice in milk in double boiler until 
soft. Saute onion a delicate brown in butter, add flour and stjj 
to a paste. Add carrot mixture to milk and pour slowly over flour 
paste, stirring constantly; heat to boiUng point and add cream. 
Strain into hot soup tureer. and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

POT ROAST 

Wipe five pounds beef cut from top of round; put bits of fat in an 
iron frying pan, shake over fire until tried out (there should be about 
one-fourth cup fat). Rub meat over with salt, dredge with flour 
and sear quickly over in hot fat turned into the pot in which meat is 
to roast. Add one cup boiling water, cover closely and cook slowly 
until meat is tender (about four or five hours), turn occasionally, 
add only suflBcient water to prevent meat burning. The last hour of 



Th:Ti:«day 52 Sunday Dinners 167 

cooking sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Serve with brown ' 
gravy made from liquor in pot. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter. 1 egg yolk slightly beaten. 

5J^ tablespoons flour. 2 teaspoons butter. 

2 cups brown stock. J/^ tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce. 

3^ can small mushrooms. 3^ teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet. 

Salt, pepper. 
Process: Brown butter richly (without burning) in a sauce-pan; 
add flour and continue browning, stirring constantly. Pour on 
stock slowly, continue stirring until sauce is smooth. Drain mush- 
rooms from the liquor and saute them delicately in butter. Remove 
from range, add egg yolk and Worcestershire Sauce; add Brown 
Sauce slowly, stirring constantly. Reheat over hot water and 
season with salt, pepper and Kitchen Bouquet. ' 

BROWNED POTATOES 

Pare the desired number of medium-sized potatoes; parboil ten 
minutes in boiling salted water. Drain, dry and place in pan around 
roast beief, veal or pork, fifty minutes before meat is done. Baste 
with the Uquor in pan and turn often to brown evenly. 

PARSLEY ONIONS 

Select the desired number of silver skin onions, medium size. 
Peel and cover with boiling water, bring to boiling point, boil five 
minutes. Drain and cover again with boiling salted water. Cook 
until tender, drain and remove to serving dish. Melt one-third cup 
butter (for one dozen onions) in same sauce-pan, add one teaspoon 
finely chopped parsley. Pour butter over onions and sprinkle with 
black pepper. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS 

Wash and scrub parsnips. Cover with boiling water and cook 
mitil tender. Drain, plunge in cold water and rub off skins with the 
hands. Mash and rub them through a coarse sieve. Season with 
salt and pepper, moisten with a little cream and butter. Flour the 



168 52 Sunday Dinners '"""^'' 



Third Sunday 



hands and shape mixture in small, flat, oval cakes. Dredge them 
with flour and saut6 a golden brown in melted butter, turning them 
as griddle cakes. Serve very hot. 

CREAM COLD SLAW 

Cut a firm, crispi small head of cabbage in quarters. Cut out 
the stalk and shave in very thin slices crosswise. Cover with ice 
water and when crisp drain dry. Mix with the following Cream 
Dressing. Pile pyramid-like in a glass serving dish, and serve very 
cold. If cabbage is large, use half a head. 

CREAM DRESSING 

One cup thick sour cream (not old sour cream). Chill and stir 
in one teaspoon salt, a few grains cayenne, three tablespoons fine 
sugar and three tablespoons vinegar, diluted with one tablespoon 
cold water. Beat well and pour over cabbage, toss lightly with a 
fork and sprinkle with one teaspoon finely chopped parsley. 

STEAMED SNOW BALLS 

J^ cup Cottolene. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup fine sugar. Whites 4 eggs beaten until stiff. 

J4 cup milk. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

2J^ cups pastry flour. 3^ teaspoon orange extract. 

> 
Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; add to first 
mixture alternately with milk. Add extract. Cut and fold in whites 
of eggs. Fill buttered pop-over cups two-thirds full, place in steamer, 
cover steamer with a folded crash tea towel, cover closely and steam 
forty-five minutes. Serve with orange sauce or in nests of Whipped 
Cream, sweetened and flavored with Vanilla. 



Fourthsunday $2 S unduy Dinners 169 

EDITORS NOTE: 

This toiH (dso he found a very acceptahk menu for a Christmas Dinner. 



Qflflenu 



Oyster Cqcktails 

Cbeam of Almond Soup en Tasse — Bread Sticks 

Celery Ripe Olives 

Brace of Ducks — Stuffing 

Olive Sauce 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes — "Thorn" Apples 

Hawaiian ^alad 

Plum Pudding — Brandy Sauce 

Chocolate Cake 

Bon Bons — Nuts and Raisins — Fruits 

Cafe Noib — Water Biscuit — Cheese 



OYSTER COCKTAILS 

1 tablespoon fresh grated horse- 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
radish. Sauce. 

1 tablespopn vinegar. 3 tablespoons tomato catsup. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Few drops Tobasco Sauce. 
Process: Mix ingredients in the order given. Chill thoroughly 
and pour over oyster cocktails. Place six small oysters in each 
cocktail glass, add sauce and serve very cold. This sauce is suffi- 
cient for six cocktails. Oyster Cocktails may be served very at- 
tractively in tomato cups. 

CREAM OF ALMOND SOUP 

2 quarts chicken or white stock. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 
1}^ tablespoons butter. 1 cup hot cream. ■ 

% cup blanched almonds. Salt, pepper. 

Few grains nutmeg. ; 
Process: Cook the butter and flour together in a sauce-pan; add 
gradually hot stock until of the consistency to pour; then add remain- 



170 $2 Sunday Dinners 



December 
Pourtif Sunday 



ing stofck, let cook gently twenty minutes. Chop almonds fine, then 
pound them to a paste, add to first mixture and beat until thoroughly 
blended. Add hot cream and seasoning. Serve en tasse; sprinkle 
each portion with finely chopped parsley. 

ROAST BRACE OF DUCKS 

Dress and clean a brace (two) young domestic or wild ducks. 
Truss same as goose. If domestic ducks are used they may be 
stuffed. In the wild ducks place in each a head of celery; this is 
thought to improve their flavor. Domestic ducks should always 
be cooked "well done" and twice as long as wild ducks. Place the 
ducks on rack in dripping pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover 
breast and legs with very thin slices of fat salt pork. Place in a hot 
oven and roast one and one-quarter hours, basting every five minutes 
(with fat in pan) for the first half hour, afterwards every ten minutes. 
Domestic ducks require a hotter oven than wild ducks or fowl. 
When tender, remove string and skewers. Place on hot serviug 
platter, surround with Thorn Apples and serve with Olive sauce. 

STUFFING 

2 cups cracker crumbs. 1 onion finely chopped. 

1 cup English walnut meats 1 teaspoon finely chopped pars- 

broken in small bits. ley. 

1 cup thick cream. J^ teaspoon celery salt. 

J^ cup butter. J^ teaspoon salt. 

J^ teaspoon black pepper. 
Prochbs: Crush crackers with the hands, not too fine. Add 
nut meats, butter melted, cream, onion and parsley; mix -well with 
a fork; add seasonings. If stuffing appears too dry add more cream 
(a cup of chopped apple or celery may be added). This is sufficient 
stuffing for one duck. 

OLIVE SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter. 2 cups Brown Stock. 

1 slice onion. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

53^ tablespoons flour. J^ teaspoon pepper. 

1 dozen olives. 
PBOGfBBs: Melt butter in sauce-pan, add onion and cook imtil 



FmX'sunday $2 Sufiday Dinncrs I7i 

delicately browned; remove onion and stir butter until well browned; 
add flour sifted with seasonings, stir to a smooth paste and continue 
browning. Add stock gradually, beating constantly. Pare the 
meat from olive pits, leaving it in one continuous curl. Cover with 
boiling water and cook six or seven minutes. Drain and add to 
Sauce. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash and pare six medium-sized sweet potatoes. Parboil ten 
minutes in boiling salted water; drain and cut lengthwise in halves. 
Arrange them in a well-buttered granite dripping pan. Make a 
syrup by boiling one cup sugar with one-half cup water and two 
tablespoons butter three or four minutes. Dip each piece of potato 
into syrup and arrange in dripping pan. Bake until potatoes are 
tender (about forty minutes) basting two or three times with re- 
maining syrup. Oven should not be too hot as these potatoes will 
scorch easily. 

"THORN" APPLES 

Prepare a syrup by boiling two cups sugar and one ^and three- 
fourths cups water ten minutes. Wash, wipe, core and pare the 
desired number of apples (about eight for this quantity of syrup). 
Drop apples into syrup when pared, to prevent discoloration. Cook 
until tender, skimming syrup when necessary. Use a deep sauce-pan 
for this purpose, as apples cook better when covered with syrup. 
Better cook four apples at a time. Drain from syrup and fill £he 
cavities with quince jelly and stick apples thickly with blanched and 
shredded j^lmonds slightly toasted. Cut the almonds lengthwise in 
three pieces, then divide, making six "thorns." It is best to toast 
them in the oven until they are a golden brown. 

HAWAIIAN SALAD 

Arrange slices of canned Hawaiian pineapple, drained from the 
liquor in the can, in nests of crisp lettuce heart leaves. Pile on these 
Malaga grapes peeled, cut in halves lengthwise and seeds removed, 
mixed with an equal quantity of Enghsh walnut meats broken in 
pieces. Sprinkle thickly with candied cherries, cut in fine shreds or 
chopped. Moisten with French Dressing No. 2. -• 



■i — , K 

172 S2 Sunday Dinners ""ZTsur^y 

FRENCH DRESSING NO 2 

J^ teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons lemon juice or 

]4: teaspoon paprika. 1 tablespoon Tarragon vinegar 

Few grains cayenne. and 

6 tablespoons olive oil. 1 of lemon juice. 

Process: Put dry ingredients in bowl, add oil, mix well, then 

add lemon juice slowly while stirring constantly. Chill thoroughly 

and use on Fruit Salad. 

PLUM PUDDING 

J^ lb. stale bread crumbs. ^ cup figs chopped fine. 

1 cup scalded milk. J^ cup citron cut in thin shreds. 

5^ cup soft brown sugar. ^ cup Cottblene. 

5 eggs. 34 cup brandy. 

1 cup raisins seeded and J^ grated nutmeg, 

shredded. 1 teaspoon ciimamon. 

^ cup English currants. 3^ teaspoon mace. 

J^ cup English walnut meats J^ teaspoon cloves. 

chopped. \]/^ teaspoons salt. 

Process: Add crumbs to milk and let soak one or more hours. 

Add sugar, yolks of eggs beaten very light, fruits mixed with nut 

meats and citron. Cream Cottolene and add to first mixture, then 

brandy and spices sifted together. Fold in whites of eggs beaten 

stiff; mix thoroughly and turn into a well-greased tube mold and 

steam five to six hours. Remove from mold to hot serving platter. 

Garnish with sprays of holly, pour around brandy, light with a taper 

and send to table en flambeau (in a flame). Serve with Brandy 

Sauce. 

BRANDY SAUCE 

, J^ cup butter. % cup heavy cream whipped stiff. 

1 cup confectioners' sugar. 2 tablespoons brandy. 
Whites 2 eggs beaten stiff. 1 tablespoon Jamaica rum. 
}/^ teaspoon salt. Grating nutmeg. 

Process: Cream butter, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. 
Place over hot water, add eggs and beat with a Gem whip until 
evenly blended, cool slightly and add brandy, rum and salt. Fold in 
cream and sprinkle with nutmeg. 



December 

Fifth Sunday 



52 Sunday Dinners 173 



Qfaenu 



Consomme with Barley 

Roast Loin oi' Pobk — Brown Gravy 

Apple Rings 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Spiced Peaches 

Apple and Date Salad 

Cranberry Tarts — Cheese 

Coffee 



CONSOMME WITH BARLEY 

2 quarts consomme. 2 quarts boiling water. 

2 tablespoons pearl barley. Salt. 
Chives or Parsley. 

Process: Soak barley in cold water over night; drain and cook 
in boiling salted water untU soft. Drain and reheat in consomme. 
Sprinkle in one-half tablespoon finely chopped chives or parsley. 
Serve with crisp crackers. 

ROAST LOIN OF PORK 

Wipe a five-pound loin of pork (little pig if possible); sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, powdered sage and dredge with flour. Place in 
dripping pan, surround with some of the fat cut in small cubes. Set 
to cook in a moderate oven for four hours, basting every ten minutes 
for the first half hour and afterwards every fifteen minutes, with 
dripping in pan. Remove to serving platter, surround with Apple 
Rings and make a gravy same as for other roast meats. 

APPLE RINGS 

Pare, core and cut apples that are not too sour, in rings one-half 
inch thick. Sprinkle them with lemon juice. Make a syrup by 



174 52 Sunday Dinners mT'sunday 

cooking one cup sugar with one cup water, ten minutes. Drop in 
tkree or four Cassia buds or pieces of stick cinnamon. Cook three 
or four apple rings at a time in syrup imtil soft, turning often to pre- 
serve their shape. Drain and arrange them around roast loin of 
pork. The syrup may be used for stewing apples or prunes. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES 

Select smooth sweet potatoes of uniform size. Wash and scrub 
with a vegetable brush. Bake same as white potatoes. When soft, 
break the skiosj put into each a teaspoon butter and serve hot. 

APPLE AND DATE SALAD 

Pare and core three Jonathan apples. Cut them Julienne style 
(in straws); there should be two cups. Sprinkle apples with lemon 
juice to prevent discoloration. Clean one-half pound of dates, re- 
move skins and stones; let them dry off in the oven. When cold 
cut each date in strips, same as apples. M^ apples and dates and 
marinate them with French Dressing. Let stand one hour. Then 
add one-half cup almonds cut in shreds lengthwise. Mix well and 
serve in nests of lettuce heart leaves. Mask with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

CBANBERRY TARTS 

Roll Rich Papte one-eighth inch thick; cut in three-inch squares. 
Put one or two teaspoons Cranberry mixture on one side of square, 
moisten the edges with water, fold in triangle shape. Crimp the 
edges and prick over top with fork. Bake same as pies. Sprinkle 
with fine sugar. Serve hot with cheese. 

CRANBERRY MIXTURE 

2 cups cranberries chopped moderately. J^ cup water. 
}^ cup raisins seeded and chopped. Few grains salt. 

13^ cups sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Process : Mix ingredients in the order given (except butter). 
Cook until soft, stirring constantly. Add butter, chill mixture. 
Use for pie with one crust and decorate, when baked, with pastry 
cut in fancy shapes and baked on a tin sheet, or use for filling tarts. 



Supplementary Recipes 

Including recipes for a few cakes for special 
occasions, a variety of cookies suitable for use at 
any time, together with a selection of breakfast 
cakes, muffins, rolls, etc., that would not usually 
come within the compass of a dinner menu. 



BRIDE'S CAKE 

J^ cup Cottolene. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

% cups fine granulated sugar. }/2 teaspoon salt. 

}/2 cup milk. 1 teaspoon orange extract. 

23^ cups pastry flour. Whites of 8 eggs. 

Peocess: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, beating con- 
stantly. Mix and sift flour with baking powder and salt; add alter- 
nately to first mixture with niilk, continue beating. Add extract, 
and cut and fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Fill 
a tube cake pan well-greased with Cottolene, two-thirds full, and 
bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven. When slightly cool, spread 
with Ornamental Frosting. 

TWELVE POUND FRUIT CAKE 

"Groom's Cake" 

J^ pound Cottolene. 2J^ pounds seeded raisins. 

1 pound brown sugar rolled. 3 pounds currants. 

Yolks 12 eggs well beaten. 1 pound citron thinly sliced 

2 cups N. O. Molasses. and cut in shreds. 

1 pound flour. H pound candied cherries cut 

J/^ tablespoon cinnamon. in quarters. 

1 teaspoon cloves. M pound carldied orange peel 

3^ tablespoon mace. finely chopped. . 

1 teaspoon salt. M pound candied lemon peel; 

1 teaspoon soda. finely chopped. 

Whites 12 eggs beaten stiff. }/i cup brandy. 

175 



176 Supplementary Recipes ' 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
, stantly; add egg yolks, continue stirring and beating, add molasses, 
flour mixed and sifted with spices, salt and soda; fold in the whites 
of eggs and lastly add the fruit except citron. Turn mixtiu-e into a 
well-greased pan lined with' several thicknesses of heavy paper, put 
citron into mixture in layers, having a layer of batter on top. Divide 
the mixture equally in two tube pans, eight inches in diameter, filling 
pans two-thirds full. Bake two and three-quarter hours. 

NEW ENGLAND ELECTION CAKE 

1 cup bread dough slightly rounded. 6 large figs chopped fine. , 
J^ cup Cottolene. Ij^ cups flour. 

2 eggs. J^ teaspoon soda. 

1 cup soft brown sugar. J^ teaspoon cloves. 

J^ cup sour milk. J^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

^ cup seeded and shredded raisins. J^ teaspoon cinnamon. 
1 teaspdon salt. 

Process: Cream Cottolene and work it in the dough with the 
hand. Add eggs well beaten, sugar, soda dissolved in milk, fruit 
dredged with one-fourth cup flour, remainder flour mixed and sifted 
with spices and salt. Beat thoroughly with the hand. Turn mixture 
into a well-buttered, brick-shaped bread pan, cover and let rise for 
one and a quarter hours in a warm place. Bake one hour in a moder- 
ate oven. Spread with 

MILK FROSTING 

Ij^ cups granulated sugar. 1 teaspoon butter. 

J^ cup rich milk. 34 teaspoon each vanilla 

and lemon extract. 

Process: Melt butter in sauce-pan; add sugar and milk. Stir 
constantly that sugar may not stick to saucepan, bring to boiling 
point and cook without stirring twelve to fourteen minutes. Remove 
from range and beat until of the consistency to spread; add flavoring 
and pour over cake, spread evenly with spatula. When frosting is 
firm, crease at once with the dull edge of a silver knife. When eggs 
are high in price, this frosting will prove very acceptable. 



Supplementary Recipes 177 



CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

4 squares chocolate. % cups pastry flour. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

M cup Cottolene. J^ teaspoon salt. 

IJ^ cups sugar. 3 eggs. 

J^ cup milk. . J^ teaspoon Vanilla. 

Process: Melt chocolate over hot water, add boiling water 
and cook over hot water until smooth, stirring constantly. Cream 
Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly; add chocolate 
mixture. Add yolks of eggs well beaten. Mix and sift flour, baking 
powder and salt, add alternately to first mixture with milk. Add 
flavoring, and cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn 
into buttered layer cake pans and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 
Spread with Boiled Frosting (for recipe see Page 56) and sprinkle 
(vith shredded toasted almonds before frosting sets. 

VALENTINE CAKES 

% cup Cottolene. 3J^ cups flour. 

2 cups sugar. 4J^ teaspoons baking powder. 

4 eggs. 1 teaspoon rose water. 

1 cup milk. 3^ teaspoon mace. 

J^ teaspoon salt. 
Process: Cream Cottolene, add gradually one cup sugar. Beat 
egg yolk thick and light, add gradually remaining cup sugar. Com- 
bine mixtures. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, mace and salt. 
Add alternately to first mixture with milk, add rose water. Then 
cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in small 
heart-shaped individual tins. CoV^er with frosting and outline the 
edge with tiny red candies. 

SEED CAKES 

% cup Cottolene. 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 cups sugar. Flour. 

2 eggs well beaten. IJ^ tablespoons caraway 

1 teaspoon soda. seeds. 

1 cup buttermilk. Raisins. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, add well beaten 
egg, soda dissolved in milk, salt, seeds, and flour to make a soft 



178 Supplementary Recipes 

dough. Chill the dough and shape as other cookies. Place a seeded 
raisin or the half of a pecan nut meat in center of each before baking. 

CHOCOLATE NUT AND FRUIT COOKIES 

3^ cup Cottolene. 1 cup nut meats chopped. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup raisins seeded and 
J^ cup grated chocolate. shredded. 

2 extra tablespoons sugar. 23^ cups flour. 

2 tablespoons boiling water. 3 tablespoons baking powder. . 
2 eggs well beaten. J^ teaspoon salt. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Melt chocolate over hot water, add tiie two extra table- 
spoons sugar and boiling water. Cook one minute; when cool add 
to first mixture. Add beaten eggs. Mix and sift flour (reserving 
one-fourth cup), baking powder and salt. Add to cake mixture. 
Add fruit and nut meats dredged with remaining flour. Chill 
mixture. Drop from spoon onto a well-greased baking sheet one 
and one-half inches apart; press a raisin or the half a nut meat in 
center of each cake and bake in a moderate oven. 

RAISIN CAKELETS 

J^ cup Cottolene. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup fine sugar. 34 teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs well beaten. 1 cup raisins seeded and cut in 
Yolk 1 egg. pieces. 

J^ cup milk. 1 tablespoon flour. 

2 cups flour. Blanched and shredded almonds. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Add beaten egg yolk and eggs. Mix and sift flour, baking 
powder and salt. Add to first mixture alternately with milk; add 
raisins dredged with tablespoon flour. Beat thoroughly and fill 
small, buttered individual tins two-thirds full. Strew tops with 
almonds, sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake twelve to fifteen 
minutes in a moderate oven. 



Supplementary Recipes 179 

PLAIN GINGER CAKES 

1 cup N. O. molasses. 4 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons soda, 1 teaspoon salt. 

3^ cup Cottolene. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

y^ cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

J^ teaspoon cloves. 
Pkocess: Add soda to molasses. Melt Cottolene in boiling 
water; combine in mixing bowl. Mix and sift flour, salt and spices, 
add to first mixture and beat thoroughly. Chill dough and roll a 
small portion at a time to one-half inch thickness, shape with a 
round cutter. Press a seeded raisin in top of each, sprinkle with 
coarse granulated sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. It may be 
necessary to add more flour, as flour varies in thickening properties. 

BROWNIES 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. J^ cup N. O. molasses. 

1 egg well beaten. % cup pecan nut meats 

J^ cup powdered sugar. broken in small bits. 

3^ cup bread flour. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

J^ teaspoon ginger. 
Process: Cream Cottolene and sugar gradually, add molasses, 
beaten egg, flour sifted with salt, ginger and nut meats. Bake in 
very small well-greased, iron gem or brownie cups. Place one-half 
pecan nut meat on top of each cake. 

BRANDY SNAPS 

J^ cup molasses. M cup granulated sugar. 

yi cup Cottolene. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

y^ cup flour. }/i teaspoon nutmeg. » 

)/% teaspoon salt. 
Process: Put molasses in sauce-pan, bring to boiling point; 
add Cottolene and, when melted, add flour sifted with sugar, ginger, 
nutmeg and salt. Drop from tip of spoon in small portions on a 
buttered tin sheet, about three inches apart. Bake in a slow oven. 
When slightly cool, remove from sheet with a spatula and roll over 
the handle of a wooden spoon. Lay on cake cooler until crisp. 



180 Supplementary Recipes 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

2 cups pastry flour. \^ teaspoon salt. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 2 tablespoons Cottolene. 
5^ cup milk or water. 

Process: Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Add 
shortening and rub into flour with tips of fingers, using a light touch. 
Add milk or water, mix with a knife to a soft dough. Turn on a 
lightly floured board; knead slightly. Pat and roll to one-half inch 
thickness. Shape with small biscuit cutter. Place close together 
in a buttered pan and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. 



CREAM FRUIT ROLLS 

2 cups pastry flour. 1 tablespoon Cottolene. 

^2 teaspoon salt. 1 cup cream. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. Dates. 

Process: Sift together flour, salt and baking powder; add 
shortening and rub in with tips of fingers. Add cream, mix with 
knife to a soft dough. Turn on a lightly floured board; pat and roll 
to one-third inch thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter, place one-half 
of a stoned date on half of biscuit, brush edged with milk and fold 
as Parker House Rolls. Press edges together, brush top of rolls with 
milk and place one-half date on top of each. Bake on a buttered 
sheet in a hot oven fifteen minutes. 

LITTLE CREAM BISCUIT 

2 cups pastry flour. % teaspoon salt. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 1 tablespoon Cottolene. 
^ cup of rich cream. 

Process: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder. Rub in 
Cottolene with tips of flngers. Cut the cream into mixture with a 
silver knife. When well mixed, toss on a well-floured board, pat 
and roll one-half inch thick. Shape with very small biscuit cutter 
(size of silver dollar), brush the top over with milk and bake twelve 
to fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 



-t- 



Supplementary Recipes I8i 



WHEAT MUFFINS 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 
yi cup sugar. 2 cups flour. 

^ cup thin cream or milk. ^ teaspoon salt. 
1 egg beaten very light. 
Process: Cream the Cottolene with a wooden spoon. Add 
sugar gradually, then alternately cream and flour sifted with baking 
powder and salt. Add well-beaten egg. Bake in hot, well-buttered 
gem cups. A cup of blueberries may be added to this mixture for 
blueberry tea cakes or one-fourth pound dates may be stoned, 
chopped and added to the butter and sugar for date muffins. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 cup Graham flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup white flour. 1 egg beaten very light. 

J^ cup sugar or molasses. 2 tablespoons Cottolene. 

1 teaspoon salt. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

Process: Sift together flours, sugar, salt and baking powder. 
Add milk gradually, egg beaten very light and melted Cottolene. 
Beat mixture thoroughly. Bake in hot, buttered, iron gem cups 
twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 

CORN MUFFINS 

1 cup corn meal. 3^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup white flour. 1 cup thin cream or milk. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 2 eggs beaten very light. 
yi cup sugar. 2 tablespoons Cottolene. 

Process: Sift together corn meal, flour, baking powder, sugar 
and salt. Add cream or milk and stir to a smooth batter. Add well 
beaten eggs and melted butter. Beat thoroughly and bake in hot 
buttered gem cups in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

POPOVERS 

1 cup flour. Vi cup milk. 

yi teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon melted Cottolene. 

2 eggs beaten very light. 



182 Supplementary Recipes 

Process: Sift flour and salt together, add milk gradually, beating 
continuously. Add melted Cottolene and beaten eggs. Beat batter 
with a Dover egg beater three or four minutes until it is perfectly 
smooth, creamy and full of bubbles. Pour into hissing-hot, well- 
greased gem cups and bake in a hot oven thirty to thirty-five min- 
utes. They may also be baked in earthen custard cups. When 
baked in the latter vessel they will have a glazed appearance. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

2J^ cups flour. 2 cups rich sour milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. IJ^ teaspoons soda. 

1 tablespoon Cottolene. 1 egg lightly beaten. 
Peocess: Mix and sift flour, salt and soda. Add sour milk and 

beat to a smooth batter. Add Cottolene and well-beaten egg; 
continue beating until ingredients are thoroughly blended. Batter 
should be smooth and creamy. Drop by spoonsful on well-greased, 
hot griddle; grease griddle with melted Cottolene. Cook on one side 
and, when light and covered with bubbles, turn and cook on the 
other side. 

WAFFLES 
33^ cups flour. % cups milk. 

2 tablespoons baking powder. Yolks 4 eggs. 
1 teaspoon salt. Whites 4 eggs. 

1 tablespoon melted Cottolene. 
Pbocbss: Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually, 
beating constantly. Add Cottolene, yolks of eggs well-beaten and 
whites of eggs beaten stiff. Beat mixture thoroughly. Cook in 
well-greased, hot waffle iron (use melted Cottolene for greasing 
waffle iron), browning first on one side, then turn iron and brown 
on the other. Serve with maple or lemon syrup. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 compressed yeast cake dissolved in 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. 34 cup lukewarm water. 
}/i cup sugar. 1 egg well beaten. 

}^ teaspoon salt. . ^^ cup seeded and shredded raisins. 

Flour. 



Supplementary Recipes 183 

Process: Put Cottolene, sugar and ^alt in mixing bowl; add 
scalded milk. When lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake, beaten 
egg and sufficient flour to make a very thick batter. Beat thor- 
oughly tmtil mixture is smooth. Add raisins, cover closely and set 
to rise. When light, spread dough in buttered dripping pan one 
inch in thickness; cover and let rise again. Before placing in the 
oven, brush over with beaten egg and cover with the following mixture : 

Melt one-third cup butter in a sauce-pan, add one-half cup sugar, 
mix with one and one-half teaspoons ciim^mon. When sugar is 
partially melted add one and one-half tablespoons flour. Mix 
well and spread on cake, strew top with blanched and shredded 
almonds, bake twenty-five minutes in a moderalte oven, 

SALAD ROLLS 

1 cup scalded milk. V/i cups flour. 

3 tablespoons sugar. J^ cup melted Cottolene. 

1 teaspoon salt. % eggs well beaten. 

1 compressed yeast cake dis- ^ teaspoon grated lemon rind, 
solved in Flour. 

J^ cup lukewarm water. 
Pbocess: Put sugar and salt in mixing bowl, pour on scalded 
milk. When lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake and one and one- 
half cups flour, beat thoroughly; cover and let rise; when light add 
melted Cottolene, well beaten eggs, grated lemon rind and just 
enough flour to knead. Cover and set to rise again; when light 
turn on a floured board, knead slightly; roll to one-half inch thick- 
ness, shape with very small biscuit cutter, then roll each biscuit in 
the shape of a finger roll. Place on a buttered sheet an inch and 
one-half apart; set to rise, and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 
Five minutes before removing from oven, brush over tops with white 
of one egg slightly beaten, diluted with one tablespoon milk. 

CINNAMON ROLLS 

2 cups scalded milk. % cup sugar. 

1 compressed yeast cake in 1 teaspoon salt. 

y2 cup lukewarm water. 4 tablespoons granulated sugar. 

3 eggs lightly beaten. J^ teaspoon cinnamon. 
yi cup Cottolene. Flour. • 



184 Supplementary Recipes 

Process: Prepare a sponge when scalded milk is lukewarm by 
adding two cups flour and dissolved yeast cake; bea,t thoroughly; 
cover and set to rise. When light, add well beaten eggs, Cottolene 
worked to a creamy consistency, sugar, salt and flour enough to 
knead (about six and one-half cups). Knead until smooth and 
elastic. Roll out to one-fourth inch thickness, spread generously 
with soft butter, sprinkle thickly with sugar and cinnamon, mixed 
and sifted. Roll like jelly roll; cut. off slices one-half inch thick; 
set them close together, cut side down, in a greased dripping pan. 
Brush between rolls with melted Cottolene, cover and set to rise. 
When light, bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven, remove from 
oven and brush over with white of egg diluted with two tablespoons 
cold milk. Return to oven to brown; repeat, to make them glossy. 

BLUEBERRY TEA CAKE 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. 4 teaspoons baking powder 

J^ cup sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 egg. 1 cup milk. 

2% cups bread flour. ^ cup berries. 

Process: Cream Cottolene, a4d sugar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Add egg beaten thick and light. Mix and sift flour 
(except three tablespoons), baking powder and salt; add to first 
mixture alternately with milk. Spriukle remaining flour over 
berries and fold them in quickly. Bake in well greased shallow 
pan thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve hot with Hard Sauce 
or cream, or with butter. 

DOUGHNUTS 

3 eggs. 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

V/i cups sugar. % teaspoons salt. 

3 tablespoons Cottolene. IJ^ cups sour cream. 

5 cups bread flour. IJ^ teaspoons soda. 

Process: Beat eggs very light without separating the whites 
and yolks; add sugar gradually, beating constantly; add Cottolene 
and continue beating. Mix and sift flour, nutmeg, salt, and soda, 
add alternately to first mixture with sour cream. Chill dough, then 
toss on a slightly floured board, roll to one-half inch thickness; shape 



Supplementary Recipes 185 



with cutter and fry in deep, hot Cottolene. Drain on soft brown 
paper. When cool, sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

CRULLERS 

4 tablespoons Cottolene. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

V/i cup sugar. l^ teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. ^/i cup milk. 

4 cups flour. 34 cup Sherry wine. 

J^ teaspoon nutmeg. Cinnamon and powdered sugar. 

Process: Cream the Cottolene, add sugar gradually, beating 
constantly. Add yolks beaten thick and light, and whites beaten 
stiff and dry. Mix and sift flour, salt, nutmeg and baking powder, 
add to first mixture alternately with milk; add Sherry wine. Turn 
onto a well-floured board and pat and roll to one-eighth inch thick- 
ness. Cut in pieces three Laches long by two and one-half inches 
wide, make four parallel gashes lengthwise of each cruUer, at equal 
distances apart; lift each by running fingers through gashes and 
drop carefully into hot Cottolene; turn when they rise to top of fat. 
When cooked, drain on brown paper and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar mixed with a little cinnamon. 

(FRIED OYSTERS IN CRACKER MEAL) 

Wash the desired number of New York Counts, using one cup 
cold water to a quart of oysters. Drain and dry them between crash 
towels. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and dip 
them, one at a time, in egg, diluted with two tablespoons cold water 
to each egg. Then dip in fine cracker meal. It is very important 
that each oyster is well covered with crumbs. Fry in deep hot 
Cottolene to a golden brown. Drain on brown paper, garnish with 
stuffed olives and sprays of parsley. 

FRIED OYSTERS (IN BATTER) 

FoUow directions in the foregoing recipe, and dip oysters in 
batter (see next page). Fry in deep hot Cottolene, turn occasion- 
ally. Drain and serve on folded napkin, garnished with curled 
celery and shoes of lemon rind dipped in finely chopped parsley. 



186 Supplementary Recipes 

Batter 

1 cup bread flour. ^ }/% teaspoon pepper. 

3^ teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

J^ teaspoon celery salt. ^ cup milk. 

Process: Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk slowly, beating 

constantly until batter is smooth. Beat eggs thick and light, cut and 

fold them into batter. Beat thoroughly and dip the drained and 

dried oysters into batter, one by one, and fry in deep, hot Cottolene. 

COD FISH BALLS 

1 cup "picked up" codfish. 1 egg well beaten. 

2^ cups potatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Few grains pepper. 
Process: Wash fish and cover with cold water; let stand several 
hours, "pick up" in small pieces. Wash, pare and cut potatoes 
in small cubes, measure them, soak in cold water for an hour; cook 
with fish in boiling water until potatoes are soft. Drain through 
a sieve until quite dry; return to sauce-pan in which they were 
cooked, mash thoroughly that there may be no lumps left in potatoes. 
Add butter, egg and pepper. Beat with a slotted wooden spoon until 
very light. Season with salt if necessary. Take up by rounded 
tablespoons, place in croquette basket and fry one minute in deep 
hot Cottolene (frying six fish balls at a time) ; drain on brown paper. 
Allow fat to reheat between fryings. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

Process: Cream four tablespoons butter with a wooden spoon; 
add one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper and a. few 
grains cayenne, in the order given; also one-half tablespoon finely 
chopped parsley, and three-fourths tablespoon lemon juice, drop by 
drop, beating constantly. This is used as a dressing for certain 
kinds of fish. 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Alabama Salad so 

Ambrosia , 27 

Anise Seed Wafers 27 

Apple, Baked 160 

Baked and Stuffed with Figs 138 

Cake with Lemon Sauce 37 

Crab, Spiced 147 

and Date Salad 174 

Pie (Plain Paste) 124 

Rings 173 

Sauce, Chantilly 17 

Sauce, Spiced 38 

Thorn 171 

Apricot Dumplings 161 

Erozen 117 

Sauce, Dried 46 

Asparagus, Cream of 66 

Salad 72 

Tips in Croustades 85 

with Butter Sauce 70 

Banana Baked (Sultana Sauce) 60 

Fritters 126 

Sauce 24 

Beans, Boiled, White 39 

String, Buttered 36 

String, Salad 91 

Stringless, with Bacon 67 

Bechamel Sauce 85 

Beef, Boiled 23 

Corned, boiled with Vegetables. ... 73 

Braised 139 

Fillets, Pan Broiled 108 

Fillet Roast 125 

Pot Roast 166 

Rolled Rib Roast 146 

Spiced 114 

Tongue, Braised 29 

Beets, Buttered 143 

in Drawn Butter 92 

Pickled 136 

Biscuit, Baking Powder 180 

Little Cream 180 

Tea 158 

Blackberry Roly-Poly 112 

Blueberry Pie 99 

Steamed Fiidding 96 

TeaCake 184 

Bluefish k la Creole 66 

Bouillon, Chicken 54 

Clam 67 

Tomato 32,97 

Brandy Snaps 179 

Sauce ^ 172 

Bread, Biscuit Tea 158 

■ Corn, Thin 95 

Croutons 87 

Crusts 44 

187 



PAOS 

Bread, Graham 164 

Rings, Imperial loO 

Sandwiches (Nut Bread) 152 

Sticks 15, 150 

Broth, Standard 32 

Brussels Sprouts 34 

Cabbage, Cream Cold Slaw 168 

New Salad 102 

Peggy's Sour 58 

ReUsh 20,63 

Salad 36 

Scalloped 140 

Cakes, Anise Seed Wafers 27 

Apple Cake 37 

Bride's Cake 175 

Chocolate Jumbles 42 

Chocolate Layer 177 ^ 

Chocolate Nut ig 

Chocolate, Rich 106 

Cocoanut 55 

Cocoanut Cubes ^ Ig 

Coflfee Cake, German 182 

Corn Starch Loaf 68 

Fruit Cake, Twelve Pound 175 

Griddle (Sour Milk) 182 

Marble 64 

New England Election 176 

Nut and Raisin 92 

Peach, with S*eetened Cream . . . 132 

Raisin Cakelets 178 

- Seed Cakes 177 

Spanish Layer 74 

Strawberry Shortcake 69 

bultana 118 

Tea Cake, Blueberry 184 

Twelve Pound Fruit 175 

Valentine Cakes 177 

White Nut 102 

Cake Frostings (see Frostings) 

Canapes, Cheese gi 

Nova Scotia 108 

Nut and Olive 142 

Shrimp Cocktail 134 

Smoked Sturgeon 57 

Tomato 119 

Caramel Frosting with Nuts 93 

Carrot, Cream of leo 

Carrots in Cream Sauce 72 

Cauliflower a la BSchamel Ill 

Salad 132 

with Cheese Sauce 95, 132 

Celery, Creamed 29, 151 

Salads (See under Heading Salad) 

Cheese, Balls 52, 99, 114 

Butter Thins 97 

Canap€ .- 81 

Cottage 124 

Fingers 141 



188 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Cheese, and Pimento Salad 26 

Sauce 96 

Souffle S8 

Cherry, Duff 88 

Pie 80 

Punch 83 

Roly-Poly 85 

Sauce 86 

Chicken Bouillon Chantilly 54 

Broiled 110 

ConsommS (See under Heading 
CoDSunini6) 

Dumplings 47 

Fricassee 54 

Fried 131,137 

Pressed 104 

Stewed 47 

Stew with Tea Biscuits 157 

Chili Sauce 98 

Chive Sauce (See under Heading Sauce) 
Chocolate Cake (See under Cakes) 

Hot Sauce (Ics Cream) 18 

Chowder, Com 25 

Clam, Bouillon 57 

and Tomato ConsommS 142 

Cocktail, Grape Fruit 32 

Oyster 49,169 

Shrimp 134 

Cocoanut Cake 56 

Cubes 18 

Cod, Boiled Fresh 135 

Fish Balls 186 

Coffee, Boiled 30 

Cake, German 182 

Caffi au Lait (Iced) 99 

Iced 93 

Noir 21 

ConSOmm^, Chicken (Cold) 90 

Chicken, with Macaroni 

Rings and Tomatoes .... 35 
Chicken, with Poached Egg 

Yolks 84 

Clam and Tomato: 142 

Clear 149 

Duchess 15 

with Barley 173 

with Egg Balls 19 

Princess 78 

Printanifire 100 

with Rice Balls 149 

au Riz 113 

with Vegetables 94 

Cookies 178, 179 

Com, Bread, Thin 95 

Chowder 25 

Fritters 63, 132 

Green, Pudding 105 

Stewed Dried 48 

Stewed with Tomatoes 129 

Sweet, Boiled 117 

Sweet, J^evr England Style 154 

' Corned Beef, with Vegetables 73 

Cottage Cheese 124 

Peach Pudding 115 



PAGE 

Cottage Pudding, Steamed 24 

Cottolene, How to Use 6, 7 

What It Is 5 

Crab Meat 15 

Cranberry Jelly 154 

Tarts 174 

Cream Biscuit 180 

Dressing 50. 168 

Fruit Soils 180 

Gravy 131 

Salad Dressing ...._. 105 

Sauce 151, 155 

Croquettes, Sweet Potato 52 

Croutons 44,87 

Crullers 185 

Cucumber Baskets 117 

Culinary Hints 12 

Currant Jelly Sauce 36 

Pie 83 

Pudding, Steamed 46 

Custard Pie 72 

Dandelion, Greens 76 

Salad 73 

Desserts (See under Heading Fruits) 

Doughnuts 184 

Drawn Butter Sauce 92, 156 

Dressing, Cream 50, 168 

French 79, 83, 172 

Mayonnaise 79 

Relish , 64 

Salad (Boiled) 98 

Salad (Cream) 105 

Duck, Roast (with stuflSng) 170 

Dumplings, Apricot 161' 

Chicken 47 

Peach 129 

Egg Balls 19 

Sauce 95, 135 

and Watercress Salad. . .' 48 

Egg Plant, Fried 140 

Sautfi with Fine Herbs 41 

Stuffed 163 

Endive, Celery and Green Pepper Salad. 17 

Dressed 129 

French 34 

Fig Pudding 165 

Figs in Sherry Jelly 92 

Fish, Bass, Black, Baked 94 

Bass, Sea, Breaded 19 

Blue, k la Creole 66 

Cod, Boiled, Fresh 135 

Codfish Balls 186 

Finnan Haddie, Broiled 58 

Halibut, Baked 62 

Halibut, Boiled (Cold) 116 

Lake Trout, in Paper Bag 33 

Perch, Fried 84 

Sauce, a I'ltalienne 33 

Sauce, Tartare 84 

White, Planked 49 



INDEX 



189 



PAGE 

French Dressing 79, 83, 172 

French Fried Potatoes H7 

Fricassee of Chicken 54 

Tomato 50 

Fritter, Banana 126 

Corn 63, 132 

Batter (Egg Plant) 140 

Parsnip 167 

Pineapple 45 

Frostings, Boiled 56 

Caramel with Nuta 93 

Maple 103 

Milk 176 

Fruits, Ambrosia 27 

Apples (See under Heading Apples) 

Apricots, Frozen 117 

Cauteloupe & la Mode 113 

Crab Apples, Spiced 147 

Cranberry Jelly 154 

Figs in Sherry Jelly 92 

Grape Fruit Cocktail 32 

Peaches (Sliced) 120 

Pineapple Fritters 45 

Raspberry Whip 102 

Rhubarb, Stewed 64 

Rhubarb Tarts 52 

Strawberries, Frozen 67, 74 

Watermelon with Sherry Sauce ... 100 

Ginger Cakes, Plain 179 

Goose, Roast 16 

Graham Bread and Sandwiches 164 

Muffins , 181 

Plum Pudding 148 

Pudding, Steamed 61 

Grandma's Bread Stuffing 154 

Grape Fruit Cocktails 32 

Salad 52 

Gravy, Cream 131 

Brown 146 

Griddle Cakes 182 

Guinea Fowl, Roast 40 

Halibut, Baked 62 

Boiled (Cold) 116 

Ham, Baked 5i 

Hamburg Roast 81 

Hard Sauce 161 

Hints, Culinary 11, 12 

Horse-Radish Sauce 51, 120 

Ices, Orange 42 

Raspberry 113 

Ice Cream, Peach 106, 109 

Sauce, (Hot Chocolate) .... 18 
VanUla •. 17 

Imperial Rings 100 

Sticks 15 

Introductory 3, 4 

Lake Trout in Paper Bag 33 



PAQB 

Lamb, Breast of. Stuffed and Roasted . . 35 

Chops, Breaded 78 

Shoulder of, Roast 87 

Stuffing 36 

Lemon Pie 20 

Sauce ' 37 

Lettuce, Head, Dressed 41, 111 

Cream of 104 

Garden Cress and Onion Salad . 120 

with Cream Dressing 85 

Peppergrass and Onion Salad. . . 109 

Radish and Onion Salad 123 

Liver, Calf's, Braised 71 

Loaf Cake, Com Starch 68 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 23 

Maltre D'H6tel Butter 186 

Marble Cake 64 

Mayonnaise Dressing 79 

Measure, How to 10 

Mint Sauce 88 

Meats, Beef (See under Heading Beef) 

Calf's Liver Braised 71 

Ham, Baked 51 

Hamburg Roast 81 

Hearts Stufied with Vegetables. . 101 
Lamb (See under Heading Lamb) 

Mutton Chops, Breaded 60 

Mutton, Boiled Leg 162 

Ox Joints en Casserole 25 

Pork (See under Heading Pork) 
Poultry (See Poultry) 

Sausage, Summer (Appetizer) . . . 125 

Steak, Flank, Stuffed and Braised 75 

Tongue, Braised Beef 29 

Tongue, Boiled 97 

Veal (See under Heading Veal) 

Venison, Roast 150 

Meringue, (Lemon Pie) 21 

Muffins, Corn 181 

Graham 181 

Popovers 181 

Wheat 181 

Mushroom Sauce 167 

Mutton,Leg, BoUed 162 

Chops, Breaded 60 

Noodle Soup 22 

Nut and Olive Canap4 142 

and Prune Salad 55 

Bread Sandwiches 152 

Cakes 18, 92, 102 

Olive and Nut Canapfe 142 

Sauce 170 

Onion, Bermuda with Buttered Sauce. . . 29 

Cream of 157 

Creamed 155 

and Pepper Salad 127 

au Gratin 17 

with Cream 48 

Parsley , 167 



190 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Orange ice 42 

Sauce 126 

Ox Joints en Casserole 25 

Oysters, CocktaU 49, 169 

Fried (in Batter) 185 

Fried (in Cracker Meal) 185 

on Half Shell 14 

Soup 162 

Parsnip Fritters 167 

Mashed 45 

Sauted in Batter 26 

Paste, Plain 124 

Rich 127 

Pea, Cream of 122 

Green, and Carrots in Cream Sauce 82 

Green 79 

and Onions, French Style 109 

Peach Cake with Sweetened Cream 132 

Cottage Pudding 115 

Duff 141 

Dumplings 129 

Ice Cream 106, 109 

Pudding, steamed 136 

Sliced 120 

Pear Salad 115 

Perch, Fried 84 

Picallilli 143 

Pie, Apple 124 

Blueberry 99 

Cherry 80 

Cranberry Tarts 174 

Currant 83 

Custard 72 

Lemon 20 

Mock Cherry 144 

Mock Mince 127 

Plain Paste • 124 

Pumpkin. . .'. 156 

Raisin 50 

Rhubarb 48 

Rich Paste 127 

Squash 39, 158 

Pigeon, Young, Stuffed and Braised. . .69, 70 

Pineapple Fritters 45, 46 

Plum Pudding 172 

Pudding, Graham 148 

Pudding, Yankee 30 

Popovers 181 

Pork, Roast 173 

Shoulder of. Roast 38 

Tenderloin, Lyonnaise. 160 

Potato, Aurora 63 

Baked 140 

Balls 123 

Boiled 135 

Browned 167 

Carlsbad 108 

Chateau 67 

Erin 39 

Franconia 147 

French Fried 117 

Fried Whole 61 



page: 

Potato, on Half Shell 58 

& r Italienne 114 

Lattice 105 

New, Creamed 120 

New, with Chive Sauce 78 

New, with New Peas 88 

Norwegian 20 

Parsley 95, 125 

Puff 101 

Roast, New 82 

Roses Ill 

Salad 98 

Saratoga Chips 91 

Scalloped 160 

Shredded 85 

Sou«a« 41 

Soup 38,134 

Stuffed 129 

Potatoes, Sweet, Baked 174 

Browned 138 

Croquettes 52 

Glazed 171 

Mashed 151 

Southern Style 36 

Poultry, Chicken (See under Heading 
Chicken) 

Duck, Roast 170 

Goose, Roast 16 

Guinea Fowl, Roast 40 

Pigeon, Young (Stuffed and 

Braised) 69 

Turkey, Roast 153 

Prune and Nut Salad 55 

Pudding, Apricot Dumplings 161 

Blackberry, Roly-Poly 112 

Blueberry, Steamed 96 

Cherry Duff 88 

Cherry Roly-Poly 85 

Cottage Pudding, Steamed ... 24 

Currant, Steamed 46 

Fig 165 

Graham, Steamed 61 

^ Green Corn 105 

Peach (See under Heading 

Peach) 
Plum(See under heading Plum) 

Raspberry Whip 102 

Rice, Eggless 34 

Rice, with Pineapple, Frozen . 152 

Steamed Snow Balls 168 

Thanksgiving .' . 155 

Pumpkin Pie 156 

Punch, Cherry 83 

Haisin Cakelets 178 

and Nut Cake 92 

Pie 50 

Raspberry Ice . .- 113 

Whip 102 

Relidl, Cabbage 20, 63 

Dressing 64 

Rhubarb Pie 48 

Sauce 41 

Stewed 64 



INDEX 



191 



PAOB 

Rhubarb T^ 52 

Rice, Balls ^ 28 

Boiled 26 

Cieam of 75 

Pudding, Eggless 34 

au Gratin 71 

Frozen, with Pineapple 152 

Savory 163 

Spanish 45 

Rich Paste 127 

Rolls, Cinnamon 183 

Cream Fruit 180 

Salad 183 

Romaine with French Dressing 140 

Salads, Alabama 50 

Apple and Date 174 

Asparagus 72 

Bean (String) 91 

Bermuda 161 

Cabbage 36 

Cauliflower 132 

Celery 39 

Cheese and Pimento 26 

ChifEonade. 23 

Dandelion 73 

Endive, Celery and ' Green 

Pepper .• . 17 

Escarolle , 147 

Florida 29 

Garden Cress with Orange 82 

Grape Fruit 52 

Hawaiian 171 

June 79 ■ 

Lettuce (See under Heading 
Lettuc£j 

Lima Bean 164 

New Cabbage 102 

November 158 

Pear : 115 

Pepper and Fruit 151 

Pepper and Onion 127 

Potato 98 

Prune and Nut 55 

Hed Cabbage, Celery and Onion 46 

Rolls 183 

Spinach 70 

Stuffed Tomato 144 

Tomato. 105 

Tomato and Onion 96 

Watercress and Egg 48 

Salad Dressing (see Dressing) 

Sandwiches, Graham Bread 164 

Nut Bread 152 

Saratoga Chips 91 

Sauce, Apple, Spiced 38 

Apricot, Dried 46 

Banana 24 

Bechamel 85 

Brandy 172 

Brown Gravy 146 

Brown 82 

Brown Sugar -. 148 

Caper 163 



Sauce, Cheese 96 

Cherry 86 

Chili 98 

Chive 79 

Chive Butter 165 

£ream Gravy 131 

Cream 151, 155 

Creamy 112 

Creole 122 

Currant Jelly 36 

Drawn Butter 92, 156 

Egg 95,135 

Foamy 96, 141 

Giblet 154 

Golden 102 

Hard 161 

Hot Chocolate (Ice Cream) 18 

Hot Horse Radish 51 

Horse Radish (Whipped Cream) . 120 

Italienne 33 

Lemon 37 

Mint 88 

Mushroom ^ 167 

Olive 170 

Orange 126 

Rhubarb. . 41 

Sherry 100,130 

Signora 60 ■ 

Strawberry 74 

Sultana 61 

Tartare..... 84 

Tomato 23 

Vanilla 136 

Viennaise 110 

Vinaigrette ^ 116 

Wine '. , 150 

Sausage, Summer (Appetiser) 125 

Sherry Sauce , 100, 130 

Short Cake, Strawberry'. .......... 58 

Shrimp Cocktails :...... 134 

Slaw, Hot 155 

Kole 138 

Cream, Cold 168 

Snow Balls, Steamed 168 

Souffle, Cheese 58 

Potato 41 

Soups, Almond, Cream of ... , 169 

Asparagus, Cream of 66 

Carrot, Cream of 166 

Chicken Bouillon, Chantilly .... 54 

Clam Bouillon 57 

Consommes (See under Heading 
ConsommSs) 

Corn Chowder 25 

Lettuce, Cream of ld4 

Noodle 22 

Onion, Cream of 157 

Oyster 162 

Pea, Cream of 122 

Potato 131 

Potato, Scotch 38 

Rice, Cream of 75 

Spanish 62 

Spinach, Cream of 69 



192 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Soups, Spring 44 

Tomato Bouillon 32, 97 

Tomato 40 

Vegetable 137 

■ Spmach Cream of 69 

with Cream 123 

with Deviled Eggs 55 

Salad 70 

Squash, Baked 144 

Pie 39, 158 

Steamed 120, 163 

Steak, Flank, Stuffed and Braised . 75 
Stew, Chicken, with Te£ oiscuits. . 157 

Strawberries, Frozen 67, 74 

Sauce 74 

Shortcake 59 

StufiSng, Bread, Grandma's 154 

Black Bass 94 

Fish 34 

Hearts 101 

Lamb 36 

Pigeon 70 

Potato and Nut 16 

* Roast Duck 170 

SturgeoifJ Canap6, Smoked 57 

Succotash 114 

SultanaCake 118 

Sauce 61 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern Style 36 

Croquettes 52 

Swiss Chard, w'th Bacon ^88 

Table of Measje* 10 

Time-,-(,i qJooldng 11 

Tartare Sai,.;e- / 84 

Tarts, Cran'erry' 174 

Rhu' arb i 52 

TeaBisouit ^ 158 

Iced 80 

Spiced (Iced) 106 

Thanksgiving Pudding 153 

Timbales, Swedish is 

Time-tables for Cooking, Baking, 

Frying, et^..... 11 

Tomato, Baked 147 

Bouillon 32, 97 

Broiled 98, 126 

CanapS 119 

and Clam Consomm6 142 

Fricassee 50 

Salad (See Heading Salad) 

Sauce 23 

Scalloped 135 

Soup 40 

Stewed 20 

Stuffed 138 

Tongue, Boiled 97 

Braised Beef 29 

Turkey, Roast 153 

Turnips in Cream Sauce 129 



PAGE 

Valentine Cake ; 177 

Vanilla Ice Cream 17 

Savice 136 

Veal Breast of. Roasted 45 

Loaf ;..91, 119 

Pot Pie with Baked Dumplings .... 143 

Shoulder, Braised 122 

Spanish Style 128 

Vegetables, Asparagus 70. 85 

Beans (See Heading Beans) 
Beets (See Heading Beets) 

Brussels Sprouts 34 

Cabbage (See'tmder Head- 
ing Cabbage) * 
Carrots an^ Turnips- in 

Cream Sauce 72 

Cauliflower (Cheese Sauce) . 95 
Cauliflower4la Bechamel. . Ill 

Celery, Creamed 29, 151 

Corn (See under Heading 
Com) 

Cucumber Baskets 117 

Dandelion Greens 76 

. Egg Plant (See under Head- 
ing Egg Plant) 

Endive 34,129 

^ Garden Cress with Orange.. 82 

Lettuce with Crgam IJress- 

ing 85 

Lettuce, Dressed, H^ad. .41, 111 
Onions (See under Heading 
Oni ns) 

Pars' ips, Mashed 45 

Parsnips, S^t^d in Butter. 26 
Peas (See Heading Peas) 

PicalliUi 143 

Potatoes (See under Head- 
ing Potatoes) 
Rice (See under Heading 

Rice) 
Romaine with French Dress- 
ing 140 

Slaw (See Cabbage) 

Soup 137 

Spinach (See Spinach) 
Squash (See Squash) 

Succotash 114 

Swiss Chard, with Bacon ... 88 
Tomatoes (See under Head- 
ing Tomatoes) 
Turnips in Cream Sauce ... 129 

Venison, Roast 150 

Wafers, Anise Seed 27 

WaflBes 182 

Watermelon with Sherry Sauce.. . . 100 

Wheat Muffins isi 

Whitefish, Planked 49 

Yankee Plum Pudding 30 



. H. DONNELLEY A SONS CO., CHICAQO 



