
i»C03K 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Heiiidon, Jr. 

PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
Administration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



Cornelf University Library 
TX 715.C29 

Tw/entieth century home cook book, 



3 1924 000 673 255 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000673255 



TWENTIETH CENTURY 




By 

Mrs. Francis Car rut hers 

The Celebrated Authority on the 
Science and Art or 

COOKING 





CHICAGO 

THOMPSON & THOMAS 
1905 




TWENTIETH 

IL Century Collection 
of Practical Recipes 
and Suggestions, embrac- 
ing every branch in the 
Art of Cookery, including 
special departments for the 
Sick-room, Nursery; also 
Recipes for the Chafing Dish, 
etc. All Recipes have been 
thoroughly tested and used 
by Chefs and other Expert 
Cooks. This work also con- 
tains valuable Household 
Information for the Kitchen, 
Pantry, Dining Room, Parlor 
and Library, and the Home 
generally, including House- 
hold Economy, with Rules 
for Etiquette, Dress, etc. 



COPYRIGHT 

I0MP30N A. Thomas 

AH, moHTw H-rsicBvirD 





HERE never was a time when there was less excuse for 
ignorance in any branch of human progress than there is 
now. The days have ended when one must guess at how 
to do something, or experiment along unknown lines. 



The dawn of the Twentieth Century shows the light of 
knowledge shining on all great achievements, but the most brilliant light 
is in the advancement of the Science and Art of Cookery and the Culture 
and Economy of the Home Beautiful. 

The Twentieth Century Home Cook Book is not only a collection of 
the newest and best recipes for cooking, but covers also every matter per- 
taining to the Home. 

Arranged in Departments, and Indexed with a perfect Cross-reference 
Index, will be found just the right thing to do at the right time, and how 
to do it right. There is not an article used, nor a recipe given, without 
also telling how to do it and why you do it that way, thus explaining the 
principles as well as the process. 

The Twentieth Century Home Cook Book is a work for the use of 
every housekeeper; it is written in a clear and simple way, avoiding 
technical terms, so that everything in it can be easily understood by any 
person of ordinary intelligence. 

For every reader of the pages of this book there is good, reliable, use- 
ful information, and such as will give confidence to any woman in the 



PREFACE 

Control and Management of her own Home. Possessing the Twentieth 
Century Home Cook Book, she holds the magic key to the Home Beauti- 
ful, the power to make it healthy yet economical, cultured yet simple; 
a home she and hers will be proud of a home that can be truly called by 
that beautiful word "Home." 

The study of the Science and Art of Cookery is not a matter of read- 
ing books, but the collecting together of the experiences of thousands 
upon thousands of ladies who have learned by themselves how to do cer- 
tain things and how to do them in the best way, with the least outlay of 
time, trouble and expense. The Author has been aided by hundreds of 
friends and contributors in many of the most useful and practical sugges- 
tions contained in these pages and begs here to express her grateful 
thanks and appreciation of same. 

In laying these pages before the Public, we do so with full assurance 
that they are full of common-sense, practical wisdom, of certain benefit to 
whoever reads them. 

The Publishers. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Preface 7 



CHAPTER I 

BREAD MAKING 

Selecting the Flour — Some Things to be Remembered — Yeast and Yeast Making — Bread of Fine 
Flour — Heating the Oven — Milk Bread, Potato Bread and Cream Bread — Rye Bread — 
Graham Bread — Boston Brown Bread — Various Recipes for Bread — Biscuits, Rolls, Gems, 
etc., Oatmeal Breakfast Cakes — Rusks and Rolls 17 



CHAPTER II 

PASTRY AND PUDDINGS 

Digestible Pastry — Pies for Dyspeptics — Mince Pies — Rhuljarb Pie — Some Every-day Pies — 
Tarts and Tart Crusts — Fruit Short Calte — Puddings and their Sauces — Devonshire Cream 
— English Plum Pudding — Oatmeal Pudding or Porridge — Four Puddings of Potatoes — 
Brown Betty — Some Good Puddings — Dumplings — "A Hen's Nest" and Sauce — Fruit 
Puddings — Puddings of Grain — Miscellaneous Puddings — Custards and Creams — Frozen 
Custard 25 



CHAPTER III 

CAKE MAKING 

Cake an Economical Food — General Rules for Making Cake — Icing, Glazing and Ornamenting — 
Recipes for Frosting — Ornamental Cake — Special Preparations — Fruit Cake, Dark — Piich 
Pound Cake — Miscellaneous Cakes — More Good Cakes — Gingerbread, etc. — The Housewife's 
Table of Equivalents 38 



CHAPTER IV 

BEVERAGES, ICES AND CANDIES 

Pure Water as a Beverage — Tea and Coffee — How to Make Tea — Tlie Tea Making of Various 
Countries — A Cup of Coffee — Chocolate — Refresliing Driiilcs — Summer Drinks — Tomato 
geer — Ice Cream and Water Ices — Candy-making — Candied Fruit 47 



10 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER V 
PRESERVING, DRYING AND CANNING FRUIT 

PAGE 

Old and New Ways of Preserving— Canning Fruit— How to Preserve Fruit — Canning Whole 
Fruit, Peaches — Canning Tomatoes — Canning Vegetables — Preser\-ing in Sugar — Marma- 
lade—Jam of Apples and Other Fruits— Jellies— Syrups— Blackberry, etc.— Drying Fruits 
— Miscellaneous Recipes for Preserving — Brandy Peaches and Other Brandied Fruits. . . 55 

CHAPTER VI 

SOUPS 

Mixed Stock for Soups, etc. — White Stock — Soup from Stock — Coloring for Soup — Noodles — 
Croutons — Caramel — Egg Balls — Force Meat Balls — Curry Powder — Mignonette Pepper — 
French Mustard — Glaze — Puree — Various Kinds of Soups — How to Make Soup, etc 63 

CHAPTER VII 

FISH, OYSTERS, Etc. 

Selecting Fresli Fish — Montlis for Different Fisli — Fisli for Invalids — How to Prepare Fish — How 
to Cook — Fish k la Creme — Baked Fish — How to Bake Shad — Shad Roe — Bas.3 — Blue Fish 
— Baked Shad Stuffed with Oysters — Baked Gurnet — Red Mullet — Black — Trout — Sheep's- 
head — Sturgeon — Fish Stew — Broiled Fish — How to Fry Fish — Lobster Cutlets — Crabs — 
Clams — Eels — Frogs, Terrapin — Oysters in Various Styles — Delmonico's Recipe for Oyster 
Stew — Scalloped Oysters 78 

CHAPTER VIII 

MEATS 

How to Select Beef, Grain, Color and Fat — Choicest Cuts — Veal — Lamb — Pork — Venison — How 
Long to Hang — Rules for Boiling Meats — Roastiag — Frying and Broiling — Beef k la Mode — 
How to Spice Beef — To Corn Beef — Beefsteal-c Cooked in Various Ways — Pressed Beef — 
Minced Beef — Beef Heart — Tongue — Rules for Cooking Veal — Sweetbreads — Oxtails — 
Mutton and Lamb — Pork — How to Salt it — Cooking Pork — Sausag&s — Ham — Bacon, etc. . 95 

CHAPTER IX 

POULTRY 

Cleaning — Singeing — How to Remove Tendons — How to Roast a Turkey — Curing Hams — Curing 
Pork — Curing Meats — Steamed Turkey — Boned Turkey — Jelly — Roast Goose — Duck — 
Chicken — Chicken Pie — Giblets, etc., etc 125 

CHAPTER X 

GAME 

Wild Turkey — How to Cook it — Hauncli of Venison Braised — Partridges — Quails — Quail on 
Toast — Pigeons and Squabs — Rabbit — Curry of Hare — Prairie Chicken — Canvas Back 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 11 

PAGE 

Duck — Plover — Woodcock and Snipe — Pheasants — Reed Birds — Snow Birds — Guinea 
Fowls — Venison Pie — Squirrel Pie — Salmi of Game — Uncle Tony's Recipe for Cooking 'Pos- 
sum 138 



CHAPTER XI 

SAUCES 

Tomato — HoUandaise — White — French White — Caper — Mint — Mint Sauce with Oil — Butter — 
Anchovy — Lobster — Oyster — Celery — Champagne — Tartare — Bread — Maitre D' Hotel — 
Drawn Butter — Mushroom — Nasturtium — Onion — Dutch Sauce for Fish — Horseradish — 
Egg — Parsley — Sauce Elegante — Shrimp — Wine — Chili — Bordelaise — Cream Bechamel — 
Gherkin — Lemon — Wild Fowl Sauce — Piquante — AUemande — Herring, etc 147 



CHAPTER XII 

SALADS 

Salad Dressing — Another Kind — Royal — French — Mayonnaise — Celery — Cabbage — Lettuce 
Dressing — Chicken Salad, Four Kinds — Lobster, Three Kinds — Slirimp — Salmon — Potato — 
Lobster k la Newburg — Cucumber — Whole Tomato — Imperial — Russian — Veal — Herring — 
Water Cress — Fish Salad, etc 155 



CHAPTER XIII 
VEGETABLES 

Get them Fresh — How to Prepare — Care in Cooking Important — How to Cook Potatoes in All 
Styles — Tomatoes — Onions — Corn — Green Corn — Peas — Lima Beans — French Beans — 
Summer and Winter Squash — Cymbhngs — Succotash — Beets — Pork and Beans — Boston 
Baked Beans — Hominy — Rice — Cauliflower — Cabbage — Greens — Hot and Cold Slaw — 
Sour Krout — Radishes — Spinach— Asparagus — Carrots— Parsnips— Celery — Salsify— Egg 
Plant — Mushrooms — Artichokes — Okra — Turnips— Cucumbers — Macaroni— Puree of Dif- 
ferent Kinds, etc 164 



CHAPTER XIV 
FRITTERS 

Plain Bell — Apple — Potato — Tomato — Parsnip — Spinach — Corn — Rice — Hominy — Cream — 

Banana — Clam — Oyster — Wine — Apricot — Peach — Orange and Pineapple 189 

CHAPTER XV 

CROQUETTES, Etc. 

Four Kinds of Chicken Croquettes — Coquilles de Volaille— Rice — Ham— Potato— Egg— Corn — 

pigh Lobster — Westphalia — Oyster — Salmon — Cliicken Quenelles — Iced Savoy Souffle 

Savage Club Canapes — Allumettes — Patties — Oyster — Chicken, Lobster and Veal Patties 

— Welsh Rarebit— Cheese Foudu— Veal Cheese 194 



12 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER XVI 
FANCY DISHES 

PAGE 

A Grand Trifle— French Cliestnuts with Coffee Sauce— Snow Eggs— Cheese Ramakins — Cheese 
Straws — Ambrosia— Salted Pecans and Ahnonds— Roast Cliestnuts— Frozen Fruits — Sylla- 
bub—Souffle—Moonshine—Angels' Food— Raspberries— Biscuit Glaze— Ratafias — Petits 
Choux— Watermelon Tea— Orange Salad— Fruit Compote— A California Dish 202 

CHAPTER XVII 

CREAMS, CUSTARDS, Etc. 

Whipped Cream — Genoese — Pineapple Bavarian — Devonshire — Cocoanut — Velvet — Choco- 
late — Apple — Almond — Hazelnut — Walnut — Russian — Banana — Persian — Pink — Lemon 
— Italian — Orange — CofTee — Floating Island — Boiled and Baked Custard — Charlotte Russe 212 

CHAPTER XVIII 
ICE CREAMS, Etc. 

How to Make it — Fruit Ice Cream — Chocolate — Cocoanut — Apricot — Strawberry — Crushed 
Strawberry — Coffee — Tea — Peach — Banana — Nessehode — Vanilla — Lemon — French — Ital- 
ian — TuttiFrutti — Pistacliio — Caramel — Bisc-juc — Strawberry Sherbet — Pineapple — Pink — 
Watermelon — Milk — Lemon Ice — Orange and All Kinds of Fruit Ices, etc 218 

CHAPTER XIX 

SOME USEFUL RECIPES 

Utensils to be Used — Vegetable Soup — Clear Beef Soup — Soups of Various Kinds — Fish Soups — 
Boiled Dishes — Stewing — How to Make Stock — To Clarify Stock or Soup — Roasted and 
Baked Meats — Beef h la Mode — Preparing tlie Roast — Roast Saddle of Venison — Fowl 
and Turkey — Baked Ham — Baked Beans — Broiling and Frying — Prepared Dishes Baked 
— Pastry for Meat Pies — Ingredients for Meat Pies — Dishes of Eggs — Steamed Dishes .... 226 

CHAPTER XX 
SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS 

Sauces and Gravies — Salads and their Dressing — Various Made Dishes — Pickles, Catsups and 
Condiments — Leaves for Flavoring — Sour Pickles — Cucumbers — Chow-Chow — Piccalilli — 
Sweet Pickles — Catsups — Condiments — Flavored Vinegar — Strawberry Acid 243 

CHAPTER XXI 

THE CHAFING DISH 

How to Use it — Supplies for the Chafing Di.sh — How to Cook Quail — Bouillon — Salmi of Wood- 
cock — White Sauce — Frog Saddles — Chicken Croquettes — Creamed Chicken — Blanquette 
of Chicken — Cream of Clam Soup — Recliauffe of Turkey — Scrambled Eggs with Tomato — 
Eggs in Various Styles — Craljs a la Creole — Loljster on Toast — Terrapin a la Philadelpliia — 
Pigs ui Blankets — Pan Roast — Oysters Cooked in Various Ways — Fish — Lobster a la New- 
burg — Grilled Sweet Potatoes — Welsh Rarebit, etc 259 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 13 

CHAPTER XXII 
NTTRSERT AND SICK-ROOM 

PAGE 

How to Preserve Health and Save Doctor's Bill — Care of Children — Nursery Bathing — Duration 
and Proper Time for Bathing — Exercise of Children — Study and Relaxation — The Sick-room 
— Cookery for Invalids — Table of Foods and Time of Digestion — Some Animal Foods in 
■; ■ their Order of Digestibility — Time Required to Cook Various Articles — Cooking for Convales- 
cents — Recipes and Directions — Jelly of Meat — Other Simple Dishes — Gruels — Teas and 

" Other Refreshing Drinks — Remedies for the Sick — Doses and their Graduation — Disinfection 
■ — Simple Poisons and their Antidotes — Virulent Poisons and their Antidotes — Disinfect- 
ants 273 



CHAPTER XXIII 
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY 

Origin of Household Recipes — Economy in the Kitchen — Washing Dishes — Regulating Coal 
Fires — Use of Waste Paper — Cleaning Soiled Marble, etc. — Verminous Insects — Cloth and 
Fur Moths — Book-destroying Insects — Kerosene — The Laundry, Some Helps in Washing — 
Starching and Ironing — Bleaching Linens, etc. — To Clean Silver — Sweeping — Papering, 
Kalsomining and Painting — Spring House-cleaning — Household Hints — Toilet Recipes — 
Home-made Wines — Recipe for Glue — The Dyer's Art — Coloring Dress and Other Fabrics 
— Walnut Coloring — Coloring Carpet Rags 292 



CHAPTER XXIV 
MENUS 

Menus for One Week during the Four Seasons of the Year — Spring — Summer^Autumn — -Win- 
ter — New Year's Day — Fourth of July — Thanksgiving — Christmas 318 



CHAPTER XXV 

THE LARDER AND KITCHEN 

The Meat Room — Hanging, Testing and Preserving Pork, etc. — Mutton and Lamb — Calves and 
their Edible Parts — Beef — The Kitchen — The Floor, Walls and Furniture — Cleanliness In- 
dispensable — Kitchen Utensils — Chemistry of the Kitchen — Component Parts of Meat — 
A Famous Cook on Broiling — Boiled and Stewed Dishes — How to Stew 327 



CHAPTER XXVI 
HOUSEHOLD ART AND TASTE 

Beautifying the Home — Furnishing the House — The Parlor Furniture — The Dining Room — 
Kitchen — Bedrooms — Cellar — Water Supply — Soft Water Cisterns — Laying down Car- 
pets — Painting and Kalsomining — Arrangement of Furniture — House Cleaning — Sweeping 
and Dusting — Renovating Carpets, etc 341 



14 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER XXVII 
THE PARLOR AND LIBRARY 

PAGE 

The Rooms for Company— Guests of the House— Etiquette of the Parlor— Entertaining Visitors 
and Guests— Daily Duties Not Interruptedby Guests— Going to Bed— Servants and Parlor 
Service— Duty to Children— What Constitutes Vulgarity— Parlor Decoration — Decoration 
Not Necessarily Costly— A Rocking Chair— A Practical Family— Ingenious and Useful . . 353 

CHAPTER XXVIII 

THE DINING ROOM AND ITS SERVICE 

Dining Room Furniture and Decoration — Table Etiquette— Carving at Table— Carving Four- 
footed Game— Carving Birds and Fowls— Carving Fish— The Service of the Table— Some 
Dishes for Epicures— Queer Facts about Vegetables— The Use of Napkins 362 

CHAPTER XXIX 

DRESS AND TOILET ART 

Dress, Ancient and Modern — The Real Purposes of Dress — Clothe according to Circumstances — 
Mending Clothes— Altering— Kind of Clothes to Wear— Taste in Ladies' Dress— Something 
about Color— Toilet-room and Bath— Garments next to Skin — Care of Clothes — Care of 
Brushes and Combs 370 

CHAPTER XXX 

DEPORTMENT AND SOCIETY 

The Philosophy of Etiqi^ette — Etiquette an Aid to Success — What it Inculcates — Etiquette of 
Dining — How Many to Invite — Dinner Costumes — Informal Dinners — How to Receive 
Gu'ests — At the Table — How to Serve a Dinner — Family Dinners — Useful Hints — Table 
Usages — Wliat to Do and What to Avoid — Wines at a Formal and Official Dinner — Sensible 
Hints for Dinner Givers — After Dinner — Breakfast and Supper — Luncheon, Invitations 
and Service — Eticiuette of Dress and Conversation — The Golden Rule — Things to Avoid 
— Calls — General Etiquette of Calls — Evening Calls — Visiting Cards — New Year's Calls. 379 

CHAPTER XXXI 

ETIQUETTE OF THE STREET, BALL, CHURCH, Etc. 

Street Deportment — Rules of Street Deportment — Eticjuette of Introductions — Salutations — 
Riding and Driving — Ball and Party Etiquette — Tlie Supper — Dressing Rooms, etc. — Gen- 
eral Rules of Party Etiquette — Evening Parties, the Conversazione — Concerts, Theat- 
ricals, Parlor Lectures — Eticjuette of Church — Visits — Funerals, etc 395 

CHAPTER XXXII 

ETIQUETTE OF WEDDINGS. TRAVELING. AT WASHINGTON 

Etiquette of Engagements — The Wedding — Ceremony in Church — Wedding Receptions — Trav- 
eling — Ladies Traveling — The Escort — Etiquette in Washington — Etiquette of Shopping — 
Washington's One Hundred Rules of Life Government 408 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 15 

CHAPTER XXXIII 
FORMS, LETTERS, FRENCH PHRASES, Etc. 

PAGE 

Written Invitations to Dinner and Social Parties — Otlier Invitations — Evening Party — Accept- 
ances and Regrets — Friendly Invitations — Friendly Acceptances and Regrets — Letters of 
Introduction and Recommendation — Directing a Letter — Suggestions — Styles of Cards — 
French Words and Phrases — Treatment of Children — Seventy-five Cardinal Rules of Eti- 
quette — Alphabet of Etiquette 421 

CHAPTER XXXIV 

MISCELLANEOUS 

FOOB PRODUCTS OF COMMERCE 

Flour and its Manufacture — Rye and its Products — Barley and its Products — Oats and their 
Products — Maize or Corn and its Products — Beans and Peas and their Products — Potatoes 
and Products — Sago and Tapioca — Chocolate and Cocoa — Coffee — Tea — Cotton-seed Oil 
— Spices and their Adulteration — Pepper — Cinnamon, How to Know if Pure — Cloves and 
Allspice — Nutmegs and Mace — Ginger and its Preparations — Capers, True and Spurious 
Kinds— The Tamarind 437 



CHAPTER XXXV 
GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS 

The Flower Garden — How to Cultivate Flowers — Select List of Flowers for General Cultivation 
■ — Biennial and Perennial Flowers — Summer Flowering Bulbs — Flowering Plants and Vines 
— Roses — Flowering Shrubs — Climbing and Trailing Shrubs — Flowering Trees — Everlasting 
Flowers and Ornamental Grasses — Water Plants — Trellises 447 

The Index 477 



CHAPTER I. 
BREAD-MAKING. 



I. SELECTING THE FLOUB. II. SOME TIIIXGS TO BE REMEMBERED. III. TEAST AND YEAST-MAKIXG 

IV. BREAD OP FINE FLOUR. ^'. HEATING THE OVEX. VI. MILK BUEAD, POTATO BKKAU AMI 

CREAM BREAD. VII. RYE BREAD. VIII. GRAHAM BREAD. IX. BOSTON BROWN BItKAD. X, 

VARIOUS RECIPES FOR BREAD. XI. BISCUITS, ROLLS, GEMS, ETC. XIL OATilEjiL BREAKFAST 

CAKES Xm. RUSKS AND ROLLS. 

I. Selecting the Flour. 

||N selecting flour, if it is a dead white, or bluish white, refuse it. If it has a 
'^*^ yellowish tinge, it should be good. If, upon being squeezed in the hand, and 
then thrown against a smooth surface, it falls like powder, it is bad; if, on the 
contrary, it sticks, and what falls does not disintegrate, it should be good. In 
wetting and kneading the flour between the fingers, if it is sticky, refuse it. If it 
moulds kindly it is good. Squeeze some of the flour in the hand; if it retains the 
shape given it, it is a good indication. If flour stands the tests here given, there 
should be no difiiculty in making good bread from it. 

II. Some Things to be Remembered. 

Certain rules are necessary to be observed in making bread. In cold weather, 
the flour should not be chilled, and the sponge should be kept moderately warm. 
The kneading should be thorough; the bread should be baked with a uniform, rather 
quick heat; when just done (a splinter thrust in and coming out dry is a good test), 
remove at once and cover with a light cloth where it will not cool too quickly. 

Experience is a good teacher, but with this, one must have good flour, good yeast, 
and care must be observed in the making. A pint of finely mashed potatoes to each 
loaf, will keep bread moist. 

Rolls and Biscuit. — Rolls and biscuit should bo baked quickly ; they should 
be brushed with warm water before being put in the oven. If a glaze is desired, 
brush lio-htly with a mixture of milk and sugar. Baking powders should always be of 
the best, and when used, get the dough into the oven as quickly as possible after 
being moulded. 

Gems, Fritters, etc. — The pans for what are called gems, should always be 
hot, and be well buttered before the gems are put in. Bake quickly. 

In makino- fritters, use haste, but beat the batter thoroughly, and cook at once. 
Pancakes should also be well beaten, and if eggs are used, these should be beaten 
separately, and added the last thing. 



18 TWENTIETH CENTURY IIOilE COOK BOOK. 

Sponge. — To make sponge, sift the flour, and in tlie middle of it pour the yeast, 
mix thorouo'hly, adding kikewarni water, from time to time, as needed, so the whole 
will be like thick batter. Pour this slowly on flour. If made at night, work the first 
thing in the morning, using flour enough to make the dough of the proper consistenc}^ 
Some persons mould once and liake, and others work the dough the second time. 
When risen, put in the oven at once, and bake an hour for ordinary sized loaves. 

III. Yeast and Yeast-making. 

Within the last few years, grocers in cities and principal towns keep compressed 
yeast, in its natural and moist state. This is made from the superfluous yeast of brew, 
eries and distilleries, and also, by brewing, directly, as an article of commerce. Dried 
yeast or yeast-cakes are also universally sold. They are not always good. The 
working principle of all yeast is a plant — a microscopic fungus — and to the ordinary 
observer, yeast is simply a thick, creamy froth, which causes bread to rise, and beer 
and other liquids to ferment. If the fermentation goes too far, the bread or liquid 
becomes sour. The next stage is mold. The purer the yeast, the less liable are sub- 
stances to run into acid fermentation and mold. 

The recipes which we give will fully provide for all that is necessary for 
household purposes. 

Hop Yeast and Yeast-Cakes. — To a handful of good hops, add a quart of 
water; boil until reduced one-half; strain, wipe out the vessel, return the liquid, and 
set over the fire again. While the hops are boiling, mix enough flour with a little 
cold water to make it as thick as stiff starch. When it begins to boil after returning 
it to the vessel, stir in the dissolved flour. Let it boil a few minutes, then set it to 
cool. When cool enough stir in some good j-east or a dissolved yeast-cake, and a 
tablespoonful or a httle more of sugar. Pour into a jug, cork, and let it woi-k. It 
is best to set it in something suitable, in case it should work and run over before you 
are awai-e, and _vou lose a good deal. After it works, cork tight, and keep in a cool 
place. To make the cakes, sift into a pan one-third of flour and two-thirds of meal, 
as fine as you can, that there may be as little meal as possible in your bread; pour in 
the yeast, and work well into a stiff dough. Make off into cakes the size of a small 
teacup, and about three-quarters of an inch thick; dry in the shade. From this 
start 3'ou may have perpetual yeast by taking off a piece of dough after it has risen 
for bread, and working it with your hands in water enough to make a thick batter, 
and then sifting in meal enough to make the cakes as before stated ; or a piece of 
the risen dough will raise another batter of dough the same as the yeast. 

Hop Yeast, No. 2. — One and one-half pounds of grated raw potato, one 
quart of boiling water in which a handful of hops have been boiled, one teacup of 
white sugar, one-half teacup of salt. When almost cold put a little good yeast to 
start it, say about half a pint. One pint of this yeast makes four good-sized loaves 
of excellent bread. 



. ^ BREAD-MAKING. 19 

Potato Yeast — Take five or six potatoes; grate fine. Then add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and one of salt. Take one quart of water and a handful of hops. 
Boil a few minutes, strain and stir into potatoes. Set on the stove and stir until 
thick. When cool add one cup of yeast. 

Salt Hop Yeast. — Put a gallon of cold water on the fire; let it come to a boil, 
and then put into it eight good potatoes and boil until well done, when they must be 
mashed fine, together with one teacupful of salt and one of white sugar. Directly 
after taking out the potatoes, put a handful of hops into the water, and let it boil 
while you are preparing the potatoes. Mix these with the hop-water, which must be 
boiling hot when added, and unstrained. When nearly cold, add one cup of lively 
3''east, stir well and set aside to rise in a warm place for twenty-four hours. Then 
strain, bottle and cork it up tightly. Strain through a sieve so that as much potato 
as possible may pass through. Allow half a teacup of this yeast to a quart of good 
flour in cold weather; in the summer a less quantity is required. Keep the bread 
warm while rising. 

Bread Without Yeast— Salt-Rising. — In the morning set a sponge in a 
pitcher, by taking one teaspoonful of sugar, two-thirds teaspoon of salt, one-half as 
much saleratus, and one coffee-cup of new milk. Pour on this one pint of boiling 
water; let it stand until it is only blood-warm, and stir in flour to make a stiff batter. 
Keep it warm by setting it in warm water, and in five hours it will be a foam — if not, 
stir in a little flour. Then mix soft in your bread-pan with about a pint of milk and 
water, salt, and cover lightly with flour. This will rise again in about an hour; then 
mix rather firm and put in your tins. 

IV. Bread of Fine Flour. 

In making any bread the mixer must know the strength of the yeast and the 
quality of the flour, for flour varies in its rising qualities just as yeast does in 
strength. The rule is that more yeast is required in cold weather than in warm, and 
closer watching of the sponge is required in warm than in cold weather. The "good 
old-fashioned way," when bread was only made once a week and baked in a brick 
oven, was to take from five to six gallons of flour, put it in the kneading-trough and 
make a hole in the center of the flour, into which was poured a pint or more of yeast 
— according to strength — well mixed with a pint of milk-warm water. With a spoon 
this was stirred' into a smooth batter and sprinkled over with all the dry flour left. 
Then the plan was to cover with a cloth and in summer set it in a rather cool place, or 
in winter in a warm place. When the sponge has risen, scatter over it two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, add warm water by degrees as you mix all thoroughly together. Work and 
knead the whole until it will no longer stick to the hands. Cover the mass with flour 
and set it under a cloth, where it is warm, to rise. When risen, divide into suitable 
loaves, mould them hghtly upon the pastry-board, place in floured tins or pans and 
bake as quickly as possible, but not to brown the crust too much; that is, the oven 
must be of such a temperature that a large loaf will bake in from one hour to one 



20 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

hour and a half. This is the best way to make bread where hirge quantities are baked, 
as, where many hands are kept. Then a brick oven is economical. 

V. Heating the Oven. 

To heat a brick oven requires judgment. The fuel should be hard wood, quite 
dry, and cut fine. Then the oven may be heated in an hour. The oven is cleaned by 
drawing out the coals and sweeping with a broom, having the brush on the handle simi- 
lar to the teeth of a rake. If, upon throwing a little dry flour into tiie oven, it turns 
dark, the oven must be cooled a little. The bread once in the oven, shut and close 



tight. 



VI. Milk Bread, Potato Bread and Cream Bread. 



These are made with milk and water, instead of clear water, or with cream and 
water, if the bread is liked a trifle short. This also makes excellent rolls. Potato 
bread is made by adding a little warm mashed boiled potato to the sponge, the man- 
ipulation of the whole being otherwise identical with the operations for bread prev- 
iously given. 

Eice bread is also made by adding laoiled rice, crushed fine, to the sponge. A 
little fine corn-meal is sometimes added to the sponge, under the supposition that it 
keeps the bread moist. 

The intelligent housewife may modify her bread-making in many ways. In 
fact, hardly two persons make bread exactly alike. 

VII. Rye Bread. 

Take as much flour as you wish for one liaking of bread : make a hole in the 
center of the flour and stir into it a teacupful of good hop yeast and a pint of new milk. 
Stir the batter a little stiff er than for griddlc-cakes, salting the batter to the taste. 
Then cover closely, and let it rise over night. In the morning, add more new milk, 
and knead up your bread very stiff. Then make a hole through the center of the 
dough, and let it rise until it is even on the top. Your bread is then ready to put in 
'the pans for the third rising, which will take about half an hour. Bake as you Avould 
wheat bread. It is also good if mixed with two-thirds wheat flour to one of rye. 

VIII. Graham Bread. 

Make a sponge as for white bread, as a (Iraham sponge is apt to sour, or use 
pai't of the sponge to make a soft dough. If liked, a little sj^rup or sugar may be 
added. Let it rise only once before putting into the pans. If you proceed as you do 
with white bread, you will not fail. If you wish all Graham bread, for a change, 
you can make the " gems" by stirring the Graham flour into cold water, so as to 
form a stiff batter, and bake in gem pans, in a quick oven; or puffs may be made 
by taking one cupful of sweet milk, one egg and one cupful of Graham flour, and 
bake as above. 



BREAn-MAKING. 



21 




KNEADING -PAN. 



IX. Boston Brown Bread. 

The rule is two parts of Indian meal to one of rye. Wheat flour is sometimes 
used, and sometimes wheat and rye. To three quarts of mixed meal, add a gill of 

molasses (not glucose syrup), two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, one of saleratus and 
a half-teacupful of good j^east. Water, 
or better, skimmed milk enough may 
be used to make a very thick batter. 
Put in a baking-pan covered, and set 
in a warm place to rise. When it 
cracks on the top, smooth it over with 
the wet hand and place it in the warm 
oven (not hot) until risen. Then bake 
with a brisk heat for three or four 
hours; it may even take five or six 
hours if the loaf is large, for the oven 
must not be very hot at any time. 
When baked let it cool in the oven, and 
serve either warm or cold. It is good toasted, as an accompaniment to vegetables at 
dinner, and may be used with butter, soup, or the gravy of meat. At breakfast it 
is often eaten with butter and syrup. 

X. Various Recipes for Bread, 

Potato Bread. — Take six good-sized potatoes, boil and mash very fine. Add 
three pints of boiling water. Stir flour in till it makes a stiff batter. When lukewarm, 
add yeast ; set it in a moderately warm place. In the morning add the salt and knead 
in flour as stiff as you can. Set in a warm place to rise ; knead again, adding as little 
flour as possible. Let it rise again, and then put it into your pans, making them 
half full. When the loaves have risen to the top of the pans, bake them to a nice 
rown. 

Corn and Rice Bread. — Take one pint of well-boiled rice, one pint of corn- 
meal, one ounce of butter, two eggs, one pint of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Beat the eggs very light, then add the milk and melted butter, beat 
the rice until perfectly smooth, and add to the eggs and milk. Lastly add the corn- 
meal. Beat all together until very light. 

Kentucky Corn Bread.— To one and a half pints of corn-meal, use a pint of 
buttermilk, one egg, a small teaspoonful of soda, one of salt, and one tablespoonful 
of lard or butter. Mix thoroughly and bake in a quick oven. 

Corn Pone. — Mix thoroughly five teacupfuls of corn-meal, two of Graham flour, 
one of New Orleans molasses, and two teaspoonfuls of soda with one quart of butter- 
milk. Put in a tin or porcelain kettle, buttered, and flaring at the top; fasten the 



22 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



top securely, plunge into another kettle so it is submerged, till with boiling water and 
boil hard for six hours ; then slip it from the kettle to a pan and bake slowly for two 
hours. 

Corn Dodger. — Take a scant quart of meal, one teaspoonful of soda, half as 
much salt, and a j^int of buttermilk ; mix well and bake in a moderately heated oven. 

Western Corn Bread. — Take one pint of meal, pour boiling water on it, and 
stir until it is about as thick as griddle-cakes. Add one small tablespoonful of salt, 
about three-fourths of a cup of brown sugar 
or molases ; then stir in wheat flour until it 
is quite stiff. When cool enough, add one- 
half cup of lively yeast. Put it in a warm 



place to rise, and when light mould it into a 




COBN-CAKE PANS. 



loaf with flour, mixing as soft as possible; 

when light so it fills the basin, bake in a moderate oven two hours. 

Buttermilk Bread. — Take one quart of buttermilk, set it over the fire until it 
is scalded (but not boiling), then stir in flour enough to m.ake it thick as for o-riddle- 
cakes, and set it in a warm place to rise ; when it is light, put in one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, and as much salt, stir or knead it again and let it rise. When lio-ht, knead 
and put into loaves, and when it has come up again, bake. 

Steamed Corn Bread. — One and a half cups of sweet milk, a tablespoonful of 
molasses, half a teaspoonful of soda, and a pinch of salt. Make a thick batter of 
one-third flour and two-thirds corn-meal. Steam an hour and a half in a basin. 




WOOD ROLLING-PIN. 

XI. Biscuits, Rolls, Gems, etc. 

Breakfast Biscuit. — Take a piece of risen bread dough, and work into it one 
beaten egg and a teaspoonful of butter; when all is thoroughly worked together, 
flour your hands and make it into balls the size of an egg; rub a tin over with cream, 
put in the biscuits and set in a quick oven for twenty' minutes, and serve hot for 
breakfast. When eaten, break them open— to cut would make them heavy. 

TMn Biscuits, or Notions.-Take one pint of flour, and make into dou-h as 
soft as can be rolled, with sweet milk, a saltspoonful of salt, and two ounces of 
butter. Roll into large, round cakes, and of wafer-like thickness. Stick well with a 
fork. In baking do not allow them to In-own, but remove from the oven while they 
retain their whiteness, yet are crisp, and will molt in the mouth. 

Raised Biscuit.— One pint of milk, one egg, one gill of butter, half-pint, or 
less, of sugar, two potatoes baked quite dry and mashed through a colander. Mix 



BREAD-MAKING. 23 

together over night, with rather less than half a pint of yeast, and flour in propor- 
tion. In the morning mould them by hand, with as little tiour as possible. These 
quantities will make three dozen biscuits. 

Breakfast Puffs. — Take two eggs well beaten, and stir into a pint of milk, a 
little salt, a piece of butter, and a pint and a half of flour. Beat the eggs, and stir 
the milk. Add the salt, melt the butter, and stir in. Then pour all into the flour, 
so as not to have it lumpy. Stir up thoroughly, and luittcr the cups into which the 
batter is poured, fiUing them two-thirds full. Eat with sauce. 

Bread Cake. — Three cups of dough, very hght; three cups of sugar, one cup 
of butter, three eggs, a nutmeg, raisins, one teaspoonful of pearlash dissolved in a 
little hot water. Eub the butter and sugar together, add the eggs and spice, and mix 
all thoroughly with the dough. Beat it well and pour into the pans. It will do to 
bake immediately, but the cake will be lighter if it stands a short time to rise, before 
putting it into the oven. 

Graham Gems. — Take one quart of sweet milk. Stir in Graham flour until 
the batter is a little thicker than for griddlc-cakcs. Add salt. Bake in gem-pans in 
a quick oven. The gems are better if the batter is stirred up an hour before needed. 
The above will make gems as light as can be made with baking powder. If you wish 
them very nice, add one egg and a tablespoonful of sugar. Make the gem-pans very 
hot before the batter is put in. 

Coffee Bread. — Take two teacups of hop-yeast dough, and add two eggs well 
beaten up, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two of butter. Mix them well. Eoll out and 
place on a buttered tin. Spread a little butter on the top, sprinkle with white sugar, 
add cinnamon. Set to rise and bake quite slowly. This is nice for lunch, dipped in 
hot coffee and cream. 

XII. Oatmeal Breakfast Cake. 

Take partly cooked oatmeal, sold by all grocers, add water enough to saturate 
it, and a very little salt. Pour it into a baking tin half an inch or three-quarters 
deep, shake it down level, and when this is done it should be so wet that two or three 
spoonfuls of water should run freely on the surface. Put it in a quick oven and bake 
twenty minutes. Eat warm. It will be as light and tender as the best "Johnny 
cake," unless you have wet it too much or baked it too long. If you have only the 
ordinary oatmeal, that requires long cooking, it may be partly cooked the night 
before. Scarcely any wholesome thing in the bread line can be prepared more read- 
ily. It can be made still thinner and baked quicker. It is good, either crisp or 
moist. For emergencies every housekeeper will find it convenient to be able to make 
the breakfast cake. Many use partly cooked oatmeal mixed with buckwheat, wheat or 
corn-meal mush for griddle-cakes. Take one-half pint of the porridge or the mush, 
diffuse it in one quart of water and add the wheat or buckwheat meal, sifting it in 
and stirring slowly. 



24 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 




XIII. Rusks and Rolls. 

Thkee-fourths of a pound of .sugar; one-half pound of butter; one pint of 
sweet milk: rive eggs; three and a half pounds of flour. Beat the eggs very light. 
put milk, sugar and butter to- 
gether over the fire till the butter 
is melted; when cooled, add one- 
half pint of yeast, then the eggs 
and ilour. Mix quickly and set to 
rise. Mould by hand in round 
cakes, about half an inch in thick- 
ness. The cakes should be placed 
in the pan in a double layer — one 
cake on top of another. 

Split Rolls.— One egg well beaten; one tablespoonful of sugar; one yeast-cake 
dissolved in a cup of warm milk; two teasj^oonfuls of salt; flour enough to make a 
stiff batter; set to rise; when risen, work in a large spoonful of butter, and flour 
enough to roll; roll out an inch thick, spread over with butter or lard ; fold in half; 
cut with biscuit-cutter, and let it rise and bake. 

Cinnamon Rolls. — Take some of the dough you make bread of. Work in 
shortening and sugar. Then make a paste of butter, sugar and cinnamon. Eoll 
your dough out thin, spread in this paste and roll up, putting it in your pans. Let 
them stand until they become light, and bake. After they are done, eat them with 
your coffee or tea, just as you like. 



BAKE -PANS FOR BOLLS. 




~^ -=WW./' ~' A lie ^ 



■/// 



i£.J/i/,/, ' All^ 



LAKESIDE COTTAGE OF EIGHT ROOMS.— COST, $1,100. 



CHAPTER II. 
PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 



DIGESTIBLB PASTRY. II. PIES FOR DYSPEPTICS. III. MINCE PIES. IV. RHUBARB PIE. V. 

SOME EVERYDAY PIES. VI. TARTS AND TART CRUSTS. VII. FRUIT SHORTCAKE VIII, PUD- 
DINGS AND THEIB SAUCES. IX. DEVONSHIRE CREAM. X. ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. XI. 

OATMEAL PUDDING OR PORRIDGE. XII. FOUR PUDDINGS OF POTATOES. XIII. I!1!(JWX BETTY. 

XIV. SOME GOOD PUDDINGS. XV. DUMPLINGS. XVI. A HEN'S NEST AND THE SAUCE. 

XVII. FRUIT PUDDINGS. XVIII. PUDDINGS OF GRAIN. XIX. MISCELLANEOUS PUDDINGS. 

XX. CUSTARDS AND CREAMS-FROZEN CUSTARD. 



I. Digestible Pastry. 



|feipINE Puff Paste. — To make fine puff paste take one pound of flour, half a 
iMi pound of butter and half a pound of lard. Cut the hard butter and lard in thin 
ll' shelly pieces through the cold sifted flour. Mix the whole with enough ice- 
water to make it roll easily. There must be no kneading, and the warm hands 
should come as little in contact with the dough as possible. 

Plain Paste. — This may be made with rather less butter and lard than the 
above. Mix all together, roll out into thin sheets and fold over and over into a roll. 
Cut from the end of this for your crust, and roll out to a proper thickness. 

German Puff Paste. — Take one pound of butter and one of flour. Mix the 
butter into one-half of the flour, using a knife; mix the remainder of the flour with 
the volk of one egg and half a cup of milk ; no salt; roll it out and divide it into four 
parts. Then divide the other portion in four parts; roll out one of the quarters with- 
out shortening; place one of the quarters, which has the butter in, on it, and fold 
over; then roll out; repeat this three times; do the same with the other quarters. 
This is enouo-h for eight pies, for covers ; the under crust can be made of the follow- 
ino- : Three cups flour, one cup lard, one-half cup butter, one-half cup water ; stir 
lightly with a knife. 

II. Pies for Dyspeptics. 

Some persons will eat pies, when they know they disagree with them. If so, let 
them stick to the pies mentioned in this section, and if they must eat the crust, let it 
be made by taking equal quantities of Graham and white flour, wet with thin sweet 
cream, bake in a hot oven, as common pie-crust. Or take a piece of bread dough, 
after it has risen, and roll in a small piece of butter; roll out as pie-crust. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Stew, sift, add as much boiling milk as will make it about one- 
third thicker than for common pumpkin pie ; sweeten with sugar or molasses, bake in 

[25] 




26 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

a hot oven. Or add rolled cracker or flour to the sifted pumpkin ; add milk to the 
thickness of common pumpkin pie. Squash and sweet-potato pies are made in the 
same way. 

Peach Pie. — Take small juicy peaches ; fill the pie-disli : sin-inkle sugar, a little 
flour, a tablcspoonful of water; cover, and bake one hour. 

Cranberry Pie. — Stew the cranberries, strain through a sieve, add sugar; bake 
on under crust. 

Apple Pie.— This is made in the same way as cranberry pie, with cream crust. 
None of these will hurt weak stomachs if moderately indulged in. 

III. Mince Pies. 

Everybody likes mince pie. The mince-meat is generally made in quantities to 
last five or six weeks, and is used as wanted. If it is to be rich in fruit, add to the 
raisins (which should be stoned and choj^ped) a few 
Zaute currants and some citron sliced thin. The fol- 
lowing are good formulas for preparing the filling for 
the pies: 

Pies with Cider. — Three pounds of good beef, 
lean and fat together; nine quarts of green apples scalloped pie-plate. 

quartered ; three pounds of good raisins ; nine cups of 

good hard cider, or five cups of good vinegar and four cups of water; six pounds 
of sugar, or twelve cups pressed full and rounded; one and one-half cups suet cut 
fine, or the same of butter ; one and a half ounces of cinnamon and three-fourths 
ounce of cloves ground together. Put all into a kettle and simmer until well 
heated through, then jiack into a jar for use. 

Pies without Cider. — Take four pounds of boiled lean beef ; one-half pound 
suet; four ounces cinnamon ; two ounces mace or nutmeg; one ounce cloves; four 
pounds raisins ; one pint molasses ; one quart brandy ; sugar to make it very sweet. 
To the above add an equal weight, nearly twelve pounds, of tart apples, chopped fine. 
This will keep for months. Before baking, add a tablespoon of strong cider vinegar 
to each pie. 

We prefer making the mince-meat with sound cider; or put in half the pre- 
scribed quantity of boiled cider, and just before bringing the pies to the table, cut 
around the top crust with a sharp knife, remove it, and pour equally over the filling, a 
tablcspoonful of brandy, or a wineglassful of wine to each pie. 

IV. Rhubarb Pie. 

Pkepare the stalks by peeling off the thin, reddish skin, and cutting in half or 
three-quarter inch pieces, which spread evenly in your crust-lined tins. Sift on a 
little flour, to which add a bit of butter and a teacup of sugar, if for a large pie. 
However, when it is desirable to economize sugar, or when a very sharp, sour taste 
is not relished, a pinch of soda may be used to advantage, with less sugar, as it goes 




PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 27 

far toward neutralizing the acid. If you live in a new country without fruit, raise a 
good patch of rhubarb, save all your surplus, prepare as for use, and dry in the sun, 
as stove heat turns it dark colored. Soak and stew for winter use, with sugar and 
soda as above for pies. It makes, also, a nice sauce for tea. All tart fruit pies may 
be made in the same manner as directed for rhubarb pies, simply varying the pro- 
portions of sugar according to the fruit, and omitting the flour. 

V. Some Bvery-Day Pies. 

Good Lemon Pie. — Take one lemon, one cup of water, one cup of brown 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour, five eggs, three tablespoonfuls of white sugar. 

Grate the rind of the lemon ; squeeze 
out the juice, put all together and add 
the. water, brown sugar and flour, 
working the mass into a smooth paste. 
Beat the eggs and mix with the paste, 
OBLONG piE-PL.vTE saving the whites of three of them. 

Make two pies, baking without top 
crust. While these are baking, beat the whites of the three eggs saved for that pur- 
pose to a stiff froth, and stir in the white sugar. When the pies are done spread this 
frosting evenly over them and set again in the oven and brown slightly. 

Lemon Pie without Lemon. — Take one-half a teaspoonful of tartaric acid 
dissolved in half a cupful of cold water, half a teaspoonful of extract of lemon, one 
of sugar, yolk of egg, one soda cracker. After dissolving the acid stir the yolk and 
sugar together, and mix with the acid and water, then the extract, then cracker 
crumbled in. Bake in crust as for custard pie, and cover with the white of an egg 
and brown. Many pi'efer this to pie made with the lemon. 

Kaisin Pie. — Take one pound of raisins, turn over them one quart of boiling 
water and boil one hour. Keep adding water, so there will be a quart when done. 
Grate the rind of one lemon into one cup of sugar, three spoonfuls of flour and one 
ecr<T. Mix well together. Turn the raisins over the mixture, stirring the while. This 
makes three pies. 

Peach Pie. — Line a dish with a good crust. Then place in it a single layer of 
peaches, cut in halves; sprinkle sugar over them, and pour on enough sweet cream to 
fill the dish, and bake. Use no upper crust. 

"Homely" Pie, — Take one cup of molasses, one cup of good vinegar, one cup 
of water, one small spoonful of extract of lemon and a piece of butter the size of a 
hen's egg. Let it all come to a boil and thicken it with corn starch. This makes two 
pies. Don't put on a top crust, but lay strips of the paste on, as there is danger of 
its foaming over. 

Cream Pie. — Beat two eggs well, in a coffee-cup of sugar and one of thick sour 
cream. Stir until thoroughly mixed. Add a teaspoonful of extFac| of lemon or 
vanilla. Bake with two crusts. This quantity will make two pi<!^ 



28 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Apple Custard Pie. — Peel sour apples and stew until soft, and there is not 
much water left in them. Then rub through a colander. Beat three eggs for each 
pie to be baked ; and put in at the rate of one cup of butter and one of sugar for 
three pies. Season with nutmeg. 

Plain Pumpkin Pie.. — Cut the pumpkin in pieces oi convenient size to handle. 
Grate with a common grater, and add milk enough to make it a little thinner than 
common stewed jiumpkin. To enough pumpkm for three pies, add one egg. Season 
with cinnamon. Bake a little longer than if the pumpkin was stewed. 

Potato Pie.— Take one cupful of mashed potatoes, one cupful sugar, half a cup- 
ful of butter, half a cupful of sweet cream, two eggs, flavor to the taste with nutmeg. 
Bake in an under crust. 

VI. Tarts and Tart-Crusts. 

The Crust. — Tarts may have a rather firm crust if they are to be filled with 
watery or semi-liquid material. For tarts of this kind a crust may be made of one 
cup of lard, one tablespoonful of white sugar, white of an 
egg, three tablespoonfuls of cold water, and flour added to 
knead stiff. 

For- jellies, etc., only the finest puff paste should be 
used, as directed for pies. In fact, however, no tart-form 
can be really good unless it is made of the best puff paste. 

C1J. l." m... -n . , ,/,, SCUXOPED PATTY-P.VX. 

strawberry Tarts.— For strawberry tarts the crust 
should be made into a puff paste. Then make a syrup of one pound of sugar and one 
teacupful of water; add a little white of an egg, put it into a kettle, let it boil, and 
skim it until only a foam arises; then put in a quart of berries, free from hulls and 
stems; let them boil until they look clear, and the syrup is quite thick. This, put into 
the puff paste, when warm, makes a most dehcious tart for tea. This recipe is also 
good for tarts of other acid fruits. 

VII. Fruit Short-Cake. 

Strawberry Sbort-Cake.— Make a nice paste for the crust; roll out in thin 
cakes about the size of a breakfast-plate; put in a layer of strawberries with a lio-ht 
sprinkle of sugar, then another cake of dough, another layer of strawberries and 
sugar, with a top layer of dough; bake it slowly in an oven or stove, and eat for 
lunch or dessert, with sugar and butter sauce. This is the simple way to make straw- 
berry short-cake; any other acid berry may be treated in the same manner. The 
usual way for other fruits is to make them into tarts; but try cherries, stoned and 
made into a short-cake, and after the recipe for Grandmother's Short-cake. 

Grandmotlier's Strawberry Short-Cake.— Take a coffee-cup of cream or 
sour milk, beat into it a little salt and a small teaspoonful of soda, and bef ore-it stops 
foaming stir in enough flour to enable you to roll it out, but be sure not to get it very 
stiff. Roll into three circles, spread butter on top of each, and place one on top of 




PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 29 

the other. Bake until well done, then pull the three layers apart, butter one and 
cover with struv/berries, then butter the second and lay, crust downwards, over the 
first; thea another layer of strawberries, and cover with the third crust. Set in the 
oven a few minutes, and then, before serving hot, with cream, cover the top crust 
with large fresh strawberries. Before making the crust, stir into three pints of ripe, 
rich strawberries a coffee-cup of granulated sugar, and leave it covered over until the 
crust is done. If cream or sour milk is not plenty, use sweet milk, and sift into the 
flour two teaspoonfuls (scant) of baking powder, and as you roll out spread on three 
tablespoonfuls of ice-cold butter. Pounded ice is excellent eaten on top of a saucer 
of sugared berries. Wi'ap the ice in a clean, coarse towel, and pound fine with a 
potato-masher. 

Pineapple Short-Cake. — A couple of hours before bringing the cake on the 
table, take a very ripe, finely-iiavored pineapple, peel it, cut it as thin as wafers, and 
sprinkle sugar over it liberally ; then cover it close. For the short-cake take sufiicient 
flour for one pie-dish, of butter the size of a small egg, a tablespoonful or two of 
sugar, the yolk of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a very little salt, and 
milk enough to make a very soft dough. Do not knead the dough, but just barely 
mix it, and press it into the pie-plate. The baking powder and butter, sugar and 
salt, should be rubbed well through the flour, and the other ingredients then quickly 
added. When time to serve, split the cake, spread the prepared pineapple between 
the layers, and serve with nothing but sugar and sweet cream. 

VIII. Puddings and their Sauces. 

Puddings are either steamed, baked or boiled, and are made with and without 
fruits. Bread, flour, rice, tapioca, corn starch, and various other gelatinous sub- 
stances ai-e used. Pudding sauces are made hard or liquid, and generally somewhat 
acid. 

White Sauce. — White sauce may be made with the whites of two unbeaten 
eo-fs, and one cupful of white sugar, beaten together; add a teaspoonf ul of white 
wine vinegar or other light-colored vinegar; beat well; just before carrying to the 
table, add two-thirds of a cupful of cream and a tablespoonful of wine. 

Wine Sauce. — This is made of three measures of sugar, one of butter and one 
of wine. 

Boiled Pudding Sauce. — The following is good : Beat a coffee-cupful of sugar 
and one of butter thoroughly together. Then add a whisked egg. Mix well, place 
on the fire and stir until melted ; add a tablespoonful of wine or brandy, and serve 

at once. 

Plain Sauce. — To each wineglassful of thick paste, made of corn starch, add a 
teacupful of butter and one of sugar. Work these together, with the yolk of an egg, 
until thorouo-hly blended. Add the paste and the white of the egg beaten to a froth. 
Mix thoroughly, and add any flavoring you like. 



30 



TWENTIETH -CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



IX. Devonshire Cream. 

An excellent dish, to be eaten with puddings, some pies, fruits, r^tc., and one of 
the noted luxuries of the West of England, is "Devonshire cream,'' or "clotted 
cream." It is prepared as follows : From six to eight quarts of milk are strained 
into a thick earthenware pan or crock, which, when new, is prepared for use by stand- 
ing in clear cold water for several days, and then scalded three or four times with 
skimmed milk. Tin pans may be used if they are scalded in hot bran and left to 
stand with the bran in them for twenty-four hours. The milk being strained into the 
pans is set in a cool room, from nine to fourteen hours, according to the temperature. 
It is then carefully moved to the top of the stove or range, or j^laced over a bright 
fire, not too near it, and slowly heated, so that at the end of half an hour the cream 
will have shrunken away from the sides of the pan and gathered into large wrinkles, 
the milk at the sides of the pan commencing to simmer. The pan is then carefully 
returned to the cool-room and left about ten hours. Then the cream is skimmed oif. 
This cream is very delicious to use on fruit or preserves, and is esteemed a great 
luxury — selling for about the price per pound of the best butter. 

X. English Plum Pudding. 

The mgredients arc : One and a half pounds suet, one and a half pounds of dry 
light brown sugar, one and a half pounds currants, washed and dried thoroughly, 
one and a half pounds raisins, four nutmegs sifted through a small tea-strainer and 
thoroughly mixed, so they will not be lumpy; one-quarter pound candied lemon-peel, 
one-quarter pound citron, a heaping spoonful of fine salt, mixed in the same way as 
the nutmegs, baker's bread enough to make a quantity equal in bulk to the suet. 
Use only the crumb of the loaf, rejecting the crust, (it will take nearly a loaf and a 
half of ordinary size) a half pint of flour, nine eggs beaten very light, and milk 
enough to wet the mixture. Chop the suet first, then add the bread-crumbs, sliced 
citron and peel, raisins and currants. Then sift the salt and nutmegs in, stirrino- 
thoroughly. Then add the sugar, and next sieve the flour in. Then pour in the 
eggs, mixing thoroughly as before. You only need sufficient milk to moderately 
moisten the pudding. Butter your tin basin well, put in your pudding, only leaving 
room for a stiff batter of flour and water which must be spread over the whole top 
of the pudding to exclude the air and water. Then take stout, unbleached cotton, 
tie it firmly over the top, round the rim of the basin, and bring the corners that hang 
down back again over the top, pinning them securely. Put the pudding into boiling 
water, tied in a pudding bag, and let it boil steadily at least ten hours. The best way 
is to make a pudding, in cool weather, two or three days before needed, and then put 
on again the day it is to be eaten, and boil three to four hours. Use cold sauce 
made of sugar, butter and wine, or hot brandy sauce. 

XI. Oatmeal Pudding or Porridge. 
Oatjieal mush, like corn-meal, requires long boiling to cook it fully; but it is 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 



31 




FAETNA AXD PORRIDGE BOILER. 



now prepared by partly cooking at the manufactories, so that from five to fifteen 

minutes' boihng makes it ready for the table. It 
should be cooked in a porcelain or enameled pipkin. 
If the raw oatmeal is used, cook as directed : Have 
the pipkin two-thirds full of boiling water, into which 
put a half teaspoonf ul of salt. Into this drop the oat- 
meal with one hand, stirring with a wooden spatula 
held by the other. When it is the thickness of mush, 
cover it and set it where it will keep boiling slowly for 
an hour, beating it up occasionally to keep it well 
mixed, and free from lumps. Dish and eat it hot, 
with cold milk or cream. Butter and sugar melted upon 
it destroy its fine diuretic qualities, and make it really 
less palatable. Porridge, gruel, thin cakes and a sort of 
crackers, are the principal methods of using oatmeal. 
As a breakfast dish, the porridge made in the way 
described above has no superior. It stimulates the action of the liver, and, in con- 
junction with cranberries, eaten with a sauce, will restore a torpid liver to healthful 
activity, if used for the morning meal, to the exclusion of fried meats, broiled ham, 
and th.e like. 

XII. Pour Puddings of Potatoes. 

1. Mix together twelve ounces of boiled mashed potatoes, one ounce suet, one 
ounce (one-sixteenth of a pint) of milk, and one ounce of cheese. The suet and 
cheese to be melted or chopped as fine as possible. Add as 
much hot water as will convert the whole into a tolerably 
stiff mass ; then bake it for a short time in an earthen dish, 
either in front of the fire or in an oven. 

2^ Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of 
milk, and one ounce of suet, with salt. Mix and bake as 
before. 

3. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of 
suet, one ounce of red herring, chopped fine or bruised in a mortar. Mix and bake. 

4. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of suet, and one ounce of hung 
beef, grated or chopped fine. Mix and bake. 

XIII. Brown Betty. 

One cup of bread-crumbs, two cups of chopped tart apples, half a cupful of 
suo-ar, one teaspoonf ul of cinnamon, and two teaspoonf uls of butter cut into small 
pieces. Butter a deep dish, and put a layer of the chopped apples at the bottom; 
sprinkle with sugar, a few bits of butter and cinnamon; cover with bread-crumbs, 
then more apple. Proceed in this order until the dish is full, having a layer of crumbs 
at the top. Cover closely, and steam three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven; 




DEEP PUDDING-PANS. 



32 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

then uncovei- and brown quickly. Eat warm with .sugar and cream or sweet sauce. 
Servo in the dish in which it is halved. 

XIV. Some Good Puddings. 

Suet Pudding. — Take one teacupful of chopped suet, one of sour milk, one of 
molasses ; also a teaspoonful of saleratus. Add flour to make it stiff. Use one tea- 
cupful of raisins, one of currants, one teaspoonful of each kind of spice, and three 
eggs. Boil three hours. 

Steamed Pudding. — Take one cupful of suet, chopped very fine, and one cup- 
ful of molasses, one cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a teasj^oon- 
f ul of cloves, one teaspoonful of soda; beat up three eggs, one cupful of chopped 
raisins, four cupfuls of flour. Steam two hours. Eat with sugar and butter, or sugar 
and milk. 

Quaker Pudding. — Lay slices of light bread, cut thin and spread with butter, 
in a pudding-dish, alternating the layers of bread with raisins until near the top. 
Beat five eggs up well, and add to them a quart of milk, salted and spiced according 
to taste. Pour this liquid over the contents of the dish. Bake the pudding half an 
hour, and eat with sweet sauce. It will be necessary to boil the raisins in a very little 
water so as to make them tender, and add the water with the rest. 

Yorkshire Pudding.— Beat up four eggs, nine tablespoonfuls of flour, one 
pint of milk, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Put it in the pan under beef which is 
being roasted. Bake half an hour. Serve with the beef. 

Hominy Pudding. — Prepare as for batter cakes, adding one egg to each pint, 
some cinnamon, a few raisins, sugar to suit the taste. Then bake just as you would 
rice pudding. A little butter or chopped, suet can be added. Serve hot, with or 
without sauce. 

" Every-Day Pudding."— Take half a loaf of stale bread soaked in a quart of 
milk; four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour; a little fruit, dried or fresh, is a great 
addition. Steam or boil three-fourths of an hour. Serve with the foUowino- sauce : 
Butter, sugar and water, thickened with a little corn-starch, and flavored with lemon 
extract or lemon juice and rind. 

XV. Dumplings. 

Oxford Dumplings.— Mix well together two ounces of grated bread, four 
ounces of currants, four ounces shred suet, a tablespoonful sifted sugar, a little 
allspice, and plenty of grated lemon-peel. Beat up well two eggs, add a little milk, 
and divide the mixture into five dumplings. Fry them in butter to a light-brown 
color, and serve them with wine sauce. 

The following is one form of dumpling for apples or other fruit, and is easily 
prepared. The proportions are: One quart of flour, one egg, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one pint of buttermilk, or enough to mix your flour, and a little salt. Have 
ready plenty of boiling water. Roll vour dough about three-fourths of an inch thick. 




PASTRY AND TUDDINGS. 33 

cut out as for biscuit, and drop into tiie boiling water. Boil ten minutes. Do not let 
them remain after they are done, or they will fall, on taking them from the water. 
Have apple-sauce or other fruit previously prepared, and spread it on the 
dumplings in your plate and pour sweetened cream over it. 

Apple DuraplingS. — Pare and core as many apples as you wish and 
enclose them in puff paste, after putting half a clove and a little lemon- 
peel, and a triHe of mace, into the hole made by taking out the core. Wrap 
Apple in bits of linen, or put into a net, and boil an hour. Before serving cut 
corer. ^^^^ ,^ plug of the paste, put a teaspoonful of sugar and a little butter in- 
side and replace the plug. Strew powdered sugar over all and serve with sauce. 

XVI. A Hen's Nest, and the Sauce. 

Take half a dozen eggs, make a hole at one end and empty the shells, fill them 
with blanc-mange; when stiff and cold take off the shells; i^are lemon-rind very thin, 
boil in water until tender, then cut in thin strips to resemble straw, and preserve in 
sugar; fill a deep dish half full of jcll}^ or cold custard, put the eggs in and lay the 
straws, nest-like, around them. To make sauce for the pudding, take one cupful of 
butter, one cupful of sugar, yolk of one egg; beat together and stir in one cup of 
boiling water. Let it come to a boil, and when ready for use, flavor to taste. 

A nice dish to go with this is made by filling coffee-cups loosely with straw- 
berries, and pouring over them Graham flour mush, or instead, thicken sweet boiling 
milk to a consistency which is thin enough to rill the interstices between the berries, 
and yet thick enough to be firm when cool. Turn out and serve up with cream and 

sugar. 

XVII. Fruit Puddings. 

Make a crust of Graham flour, sour cream, soda, and a pinch of salt. Pass the 
flour through a coarse sieve, so as to relieve it of the coarser bits of bran. For a 
family of six persons line a quart basin with the crust, a quarter of an inch thick. 
Fill the basin thus lined, with fruit — plums or peaches are best. Let the fruit be of 
the choicest variety. Cover the whole with a rather thick crust, and steam until the 
crust is thorouo-hly cooked. Serve with white sugar and thick, sweet cream. This 
has been called Queen of puddings, and can be eaten with a comparatively clear 

conscience. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. — One coffee-cupful tapioca, covered with three pints 
of cold water, and soaked over night. In the morning set it on the side of the range, 
or stove, stirring it often until it becomes transparent. If too thick, add more water, 
until it is as thin as good, clear starch. Stir in a small teaspoonful of salt. Pare 
and core, without breaking, as many good apples as will lie close on the bottom of a 
medium-sized pudding-dish. Fill the holes full of sugar, and a very little nutmeg 
and cinnamon; then pour over the tapioca, and bake slowly until the apples are soft 
and well done. To be eaten with hard sauce, which is made as follows: One cup 
sugar, two-thirds of a cup butter, beaten together until perfectly smooth and white. 



34: TWENTIETIJ" CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Boiled Gr'>,pe Pudding. — Pare rich, tart apples, and cut to the size of a chest- 
nut by cutting cacli quarter in four i)ieccs, and add an equal measure of grapes, say 
one pint of each, and stir into it two spoonfuls of wheat meal. Then make a scalded 
wheat-meal crust, roll to one-third of an inch thick, place in it the prepared fruit, 
close it over the fruit, sev/ up in a napkin, put into boihng water and boil an hour. 
Grape dumplings may be made with the same materials; wrapping up half a teacupful 
of the fruit in a crust, and, for convenience, placing it in a patty-pan, and setting in 
the steamer. Cook until the ai)ples are rather soft. Serve warm with sauce. 

Plain Apple Pudding. — Pare, quarter and core apples to fill a small dish 
rather more than half, and pour in water two inches deej). Make a crust of one pint 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and baking powder enough to make it light. 
Add a level teaspoonful of lard, and flour enough to make a wet dough, and roll out 
quickl}', put over the pudding-dish, and set on a hot stove. Cover tightly with a tin 
cover, on which put a flat-iron. The steam produced cooks the pudding quickly. 
Fifteen minutes will bo found long enough. Serve hot, with hard sauce made of but- 
ter and sugar. 

Sweet-Apple Pudding. — One pint of scalded milk, half a pint of Indian meal, 
one small teacupful of flnely-chopped suet, two teaspoonfuls of salt, six sweet apples 
cut in small })ieces, one great-spoon of molasses, half a teaspoonful of ginger, nutmeg or 
cinnamon — whichever is most desirable — two eggs well beaten, and half a teaspoonful 
of soda. Beiit all well together, put into a i^udding-mould, and boil two hours. 

Dried-Peach Pudding. — Cut in small pieces one pint of dried peaches, wash 
them, and boil in just enough water to cover them. When the}^ are tender, add two 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, and boil a few minutes longer, and then they will 
resemble cooked raisins. i\Iake a stiff batter of three eggs, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one teacupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar, 
sifted in a quart of flour. You may not have to use all the flour — just enouo-h to 
make a stiff batter. Stir }-our peaches in the batter and bake in a buttered pan, and 
you will have a delicious pudding, which no one can tell from one made of raisins. 
Any other dried fruit may be rsed in the same way. Serve with butter sauce 

Fig Pudding. — Take one pound of figs, six ounces of suet, three-quarters of a 
pound of flour, and milk. Chop the suet finely, mix it with the flour, and make in to a 
smooth paste with milk. PtoU it out about half an inch thick, cut the figs in small 
pieces, -and stew them over the paste. EoU it up, make the ends secure, tie the pud- 
ding in a cloth, and boil from one and a half to two hours. 

Cherry Pudding.— A nice pudding can be made by boiling one-half pint of 
rice half an hour in five times as much water, and pouring it boiling hot into one pint 
of wheat meal. Mix thoroughly, and place it in small spoonfuls in a nappy — a round 
earthen dish with flat bottom and sloping sides— interlaying it with a pint of cherries. 
Steam half or three-quarters of an hour. Serve warm, trimming it with melted 
sugar, or sweetened cherry-juice, or some other sweet sauce. This recipe can be used 
for such other small fruits in their season as will bear cooking enough to do the 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 



S5 



wheat-meal. Half an hour is the least that will answer for that purpose ; three- 
quarters of an hour is better. 

Apple Souflle. — Stew the apples and add a little grated lemon peel and juice, 
omitting butter ; line the sides and bottom of a bakinjj-dish with them. Make a boiled 



custard 



o 
with one 



of milk and two 




OVAL PUDDING- PAN. 



pmt ot milli ana two eggs, 
flavoring with lemon and sweetening it to taste. 
Let it cool and then pour into the center of the 
dish. Beat the whites of two esss to a stiff froth, 

DO ' 

spread them over the top; sprinkle white sugar 
all over them, and brown in the oven. The 
stewed apple should be about half an inch thick 
on the bottom and sides of the pudding-dish. 
Bird's Nest Pudding — Take sour apples, peel, quarter and core enough to 
cover the bottom of a common square tin. Make a batter of one cup of buttermilk, 
one-half cupful of cream, two eggs, a little salt, one teaspoonful of soda, and flour 
enough to thicken about like fritters. Pour this over the apples and bake in a quick 
oven. Eat while hot, with butter or cream sauce. 

XVIII. Puddings of Grain, etc. 

Rice Pudding. — Rice pudding is eaten by everybody, even the most delicate. 
A good way to make it is as follows : In a quart bowl, take two eggs and two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, well beaten together; fill the bowl half full of cooked rice, 
bits of butter, and a handful of raisins; stir all well together, and then fill the bowl 
with new milk. After the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, bake in a hot oven half 
an hour. "When set away to cool, take a spoon and stir it up, so as to mix in the 
melted butter on the top and the raisins in the bottom. Eat with cream, slightly 
sweetened. Season with nutmeg, or whatever j'ou like. 

Rice Pudding without Eggs. — A pudding without eggs can be made by 
taking one cup of rice to one-half gallon milk and one cup of sugar. Bake until the 
rice is done. Flavor to youv taste. 

Corn Pudding. — Take canned corn (in the season, green corn scraped from 
the cob) and add to one can of corn a quart of cold milk, three eggs well beaten, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and one teaspoonful of salt. If not sweet enough, add sugar; 
if too thick, more milk. Pour this into buttered dishes and bake. It is delicious 
for tea. 

Rizena Pudding. — Eizena is a food preparation of rice. A pudding of this is 
made by mixing four large spoonfuls of rizena with half a pint of cold milk, and stir 
it into a quart of boiling milk until it boils again; then remove, stir in butter the size 
of an egg and a little salt; let it cool, and add four eggs, well beaten, two-thirds of a 
cup of white sugar, grated nutmeg, and half a wineglassful of brandy, or other flavor- 
in^ if preferred ; bake in a buttered dish twenty minutes. To be eaten hot, with 
Bauce. It can hardly be said to be superior to rice. 




36 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XIX, Miscellaneous Puddings. 

Floating Island. — Take the j^olks of seven eggs to one quart of milk, one cup- 
ful of sugar, a little salt, and flavor with lemon. Beat all together, and set in a kettle 
of water other than the kettle it is boiled in. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and pile in heaps on top of the boiled milk, after it has been put in the float 
glasses. This will make twelve glasses full. They look very pretty set in a circle 
round a bouquet of flowers, in the center or at each end of the table. 

Charlotte Russe. — Take a box of sparkling gelatine and pour on it a scant 
pint and a half of cold water; when it has stood ten minutes add the same quantity 
of boiling water, and stir until the gelatine is dissolved; stir 
in half a pound of white sugar; have ready six eggs, well 
beaten sei^arately, and then together, and when the jelly is 
cool, but not congealed, beat it into the eggs; whip very 
lightly three pints of rich cream, flavored with vanilla or 
almond, or both, and when the eggs and jelly begin to con- chaelotte eusse pak. 
geal, beat it in as rapidl}^ as possible, and pour the mixture in 
a bowl lined with lady-fingers or sponge-cake 

Spice Pudding. — Take one cupful of butter, one cupful of molasses, and one 
cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, one 
of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of soda, one egg, and 
plenty of raisins. Steam three hours. A liquid sauce for spice pudding is made by 
taking six tablespoonfuls of sugar, four tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, one tablespoonful of flour, ten of boiling water, and a small lump of 
tartaric acid ; flavor with lemon. Mix thoroughly and boil. 

Delicate Pudding. — Take one quart of milk, and while boiling stir in one pint 
of sifted flour, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one spoonful of butter, 
the grated peel and juice of two lemons. All the ingredients must be well beaten 
together before they are stirred into the milk. Stir one way without stopjDing for a 
minute or two, take it off, and turn into your pudding-dish. It is to be eaten cold, 
with sugar and cream if you like. 

Orange Pudding. — Take four fair-sized oranges, peel, seed, and cut in small 
pieces. Add one cup of sugar, and let it stand. Into one cup of nearl}^ boiling 
milk stir two tabespoonfuls of corn starch, mixed with a little water and the yolks of 
three eggs. When done, let it cool, and mix with the orange. Make a frosting of 
the whites of the eggs and half a cup of sugar. Spread over the tojo of the jjuddino-, 
and put it into the oven for a few moments to brown. 

Eve's Pudding. — Take half a pound of apples, half a pound of bread-crumbs, 
a pint of milk, half a pound of currants, six ounces of sugar, two eggs, and the 
grated rind of a lemon. Chop the apple small; add the bread-crumbs, currants, 
sugar and lemon-peel, then the eggs, well beaten; boil it three hours, in a buttered 
mould, and serve with sweet sauce. 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 37 

Bachelor's Pudding. — Three eggs, well beaten, (the white of one beaten sepa- 
rately until firm enough to cut with a knife), two teacupfuls of milk, one teacupful 
of sugar, one soda cracker broken in six pieces, a slice of peeled orange laid on each 
piece and sprinkled with sugar ; put them in the dish and they will float ; bake in a 
very hot oven, and, when half done, put a spoonful of the white of beaten egg on 
each piece; return to the oven and bake five minutes, and you have a splendid dish. 

Cocoanut Bread Pudding. — Boil one quart of milk submerged in a boiler. 
When hot, add a teacupful of grated cocoanut, and boil two hours. Add a cup of 
bread-crumbs, two eggs well beaten, and half a cup of sugar. Currants or raisins 
may be added. Boil one hour, and eat cold. 

XX. Custards and Creams. , 

Frozen Custard. — This is a nice dish for dessert, and very easily prepared: 
Boil two quarts of rich milk. Beat eight eggs and a teacupful of sugar together, and 
after the milk has boiled, pour it over the eggs and sugar, stirring all the while. 
Pour the whole mixture into }'our kettle, and let it come to a boil, stirring it con- 
stantly. Then take it off the tiro, and let it become cold. Flavor it with whatever 
essence you prefer. Then freeze it. 

Chocolate Custard. — Scrape half a cake of good chocolate, and put it into a 
stew-pan, and moisten by degrees with a pint of warm milk and cream ; when well 
dissolved, mix with the yolks of eggs, and finish the same as for other custards. 

Bohemian Cream. — Take four ounces of any kind of fruit, stone it, and 
sweeten. Pass it through a sieve, adding one ounce and a half of melted or dissolved 
isinglass to each half pint of fruit. Mix well, then whip a pint of rich cream, and 
add the isinglass and fruit gradually to it. Pour all into a mould, set it on ice or 
where it is very cool, and when set, dip the mould a moment into water, and then 
turn it out ready for the table. 

Whipped Cream. — Sweeten one pint of sweet cream, and add essence of 
lemon. Beat up the whites of four eggs until they are very light, adding them to the 
cream. Whip both together. As fast as the froth rises, skim it off, put in glasses, 
and continue until they are full. 



CHAPTER III. 
CAKE-MAKING. 




CAKE AN ECONOMICAL FOOD. II. GENERAL KULES FOR MAKING CAKE. III. ICING, GLAZING AND 

ORNAMENTING. IV. RECIPES FOR FROSTING. V. ORNAMENTING CAICE. VI. SPECIAL PREP- 
ARATIONS. VII. FRUIT CAKE, DARK. VIII. RICH POUND-CAKE. IX. MISCELLANEOUS CAKES. 

X. MORE GOOD CAKES. XI. GINGERBREAD AND OTHER "HOMELY" CAKES. XXL THE 

HOUSE-WIFE'S TABLE OF EQUIVALENTS. 

I. Cake an Economical Food. 

E have known jiersons begrudge their families cake, on the ground that it was 
J expensive. This is a mistake. Milk, eggs, butter, flour and sugar are the 
ingredients of most cakes. The three first all farmers have, or should have 
^ plenty of, and sugar is no longer costly. As a condensed food, cake is 
cheaper than the best beefsteak, even in the country, and more than twice as nour- 
ishing. Eggs are more nourishing, pound for pound, than fresh meat, and a quart 
of good milk contains as much nourishment as a pound of fresh beef. 

II. General Rules for Making Cake. 

There are some general rules for making cake that must be observed : 

1. The ingredients must be of the best, for the best are most economical. 

2. Never allow butter to get oily before mixing it in the cake. 

3. Always have an earthen or other enameled dish to mix and work the materials 
for cake. Tin, if not new, is apt to 

discolor the material. Eemember that 
ego; Avill tarnish even silver. Hence 
always use a clean wooden spoon. 

4. As a rule, in mixing cake, first 
beat the sugar and butter together to a 
cream ; then add the yolks of the eggs. 
If spices or liquors are used, these 
come in with the yolks of eggs ; then 
comes milk ; and last, the thoroughly 
whisked whites of the eggs and the 
flavor. If fruit is a portion, this is put 
in with the flour. 

5 . For small cakes the oven should be pretty hot ; for larger cakes only moder- 
ately so. If a broom-straw, pushed through the thick part of the cake, comes out 
clean and free from dough, the cake is done. 

[38] 




BEATING BOWL. 



CAKE-MAKING. 39 

6. When you take the cake from the oven, do not remove from the pans until 
it is somewhat cool — not sooner than fifteen minutes. When you take it from the 
pans, do not turn it over; set it down on a clean cloth, on its bottom, and cover with 
another clean cloth. 

These directions have as many parts as an old-fashioned sermon. Fortunately 
they are not so long. 

III. Icing, Glazing and Ornamenting. 

1. A GLAZED shallow earthen dish should be used in making the icing. 

2. Allow a full quarter of a pound, or more, of the finest white sugar to the 
white of each egg. 

3. Lemon-juice and tartaric acid whiten the icing. If used, more sugar Avill 
be required. 

4. Sjirinkle the egg with part of the sugar, and beat, adding more sugar from 
time to time. If you use flavoring, add it last. 

5. Dredge the cake thoroughly with flour after it is baked; then wipe it care- 
fully before icing or frosting. It will then spread more kindly. 

6. Put the frosting on in large spoonfuls. Begin in the center and spread with 
a thin-bladed knife or spatula, dipped from time to time in ice-water. 

7. Let the frosting dry in a cool place. 

IV. Recipes for Frosting. 

Take the whites of eight eggs; beat to a stiff and perfect froth. Add pulverized 
white sug£.r, two pounds; starch, one tablespoonful ; pulverized gum Arabic, one-half 
ounce, and the juice of a lemon. Sift sugar, starch and gum Arabic into the beaten 
eggs, and stir until perfectly firm. 

Beat the white of an egg until you can turn the plate over without the egg run- 
ning off, then add five heaping tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar and one of starch. 
This quantity will frost one small cake. Flavor to taste. 

Glazing. — Put into a porcelain or other glazed vessel, with a little water, the 
white of one eo-g well beaten, and stirred well into the water; let it boil, and whilst 
boilino-, throw in a few drops of cold water. Then stir in a cupful of pounded sugar. 
This must boil to a foam, then be used; this makes a nice glace for cakes. 

V. Ornamenting Cakes. 

For figures or flowers, beat up two eggs, reserving a third (white) till the cake 
has become dry after icing. Then insert a clean glass syringe into the renuiinder, 
and direct as you choose over the iced cake. Dry again. Ripe fruit may be laid on 
the icino- when about half dry, with a very pretty effect, such as berries, etc. Save 
a little icino- out, dilute with rosewater, and put on when that first done is dry. It 
gives a smooth, gloss. 

The ornamentation may be colored pink by mixing a very little carmine or straw- 
berry juice in the eo-g. The yellow rind of lemons, put in a bag and squeezed hai'd 



40 



TWENTIETH CENTirRY HOME COOK BOOK. 



into the icino- will o;ive a yellow. So will a little buttci-color, or preparation of anatto. 
For raised figures formed of frosting, a cone of strong white paper, rolled, with a 
proper orifice at the botttnn, answers well, since it may be held upright, and easily 
directed to make the desired figures. 

VI. Special Preparations. 

Chocolate prepaiation is made as directed for other frosting, with the whites of 
two eggs, one and a half eupfuls of best white ground sugar, six tablespoonfuls of 
grated chocolate and two tablespoonfuls of vanilla. Spread between the layers and 
on top of the cake, and serve while fresh, or when not more than one day old. 

Ice-Cream Icing for Cake. — This is used for white cake : Take two cups of 
white sugar boiled to a thick S3'rup ; add three teaspoonf uls of vanilla, and when 
cool, the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth; flavor with two teaspoonf uls of 
citric acid. 





OCTAGON CAKE-MOULD. 



WAl/ 



TUEK'S-HEAD CAKE-MOULD. 



VII. Fruit Cake— Dark. 

The quantity of fruit is according to how rich the cake is to be made. The pro- 
portions for a rich, dark cake may be : Two pounds of raisins (stoned), two pounds 
of currants, one pound of almonds (blanched), one pound of citron or candied peel 
and fruit, one pound of moist sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of flour, one 
dozen eggs, one teaspoonful of mace, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, 
one wineglassful of brandy, and one of wine. The fruit should be cut up rather 
coarse, and the almonds in not more than three pieces. Roll the fruit in flour to sepa- 
rate it, reserving some almonds and citron for sticking in the top of the cake, but 
entirely out of sight. Beat the fruit into the eggs after they have been perfectly 
whisked ; also the butter and sugar after they are creamed together. Let the rest of 
the flour be lightly stirred in just before putting the cake to rise. Put embers under 
it, and let it rise for three hours. Bake slowly for three hours, or until, by trying with 
a straw, 3'ou find it cjuite done. When taken from the oven, let the cake stand in the 
pan at least two hours, or if it is very large, leave it in a warm place all night. It 
will then be ready for frosting, and will keep indefinitely in a dark, cool place. The 
pan in which it is baked nnist be lined with buttered Avhite jDaper. The white paper 
is also used for pound cake. 



CAKE-MAKING. 41 

VIII. Rich Pound-Cake. 

Take one pound each of white sugar, butter, and tiour; ten eggs, a wineglassful 
of brandy, half a nutmeg, and a teaspoonfu] of vanilla or essence of lemon. Beat 
the sugar and butter to a cream, whisk the eggs to a froth, and beat all the ingre- 
dients together until perfectly light. Bake in a moderately heated oven an hour. 
Turn the cake out of the tin, invert it, and set the cake on the bottom to cool. Put 
on the frosting when cold. 

Cocoanut Pound-Cake.— This is made with one pound of sugar, half a pound 
of butter, one teacupful of fresh milk, one pound of flour, one cocoanut grated, four 
eggs, the peel of half a lemon grated, or half a teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and 
a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Make as directed for pound-cake, but put in 
the cocoanut last. Bake in buttered tins, the cake-batter being put in an inch deep. 
The heat should be rather quick, and the cake is to be iced as directed for fruit 
cake. 





SPONGE-CAKE PjVNS. DEEP JELLY-CAKE PANS 

IX. Miscellaneous Cakes. 

Roll Jelly Cake. — Take one cupful of white sugar, one-half teacupful of sweet 
milk, two eggs, one cupful of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one-fourth of a 
teaspoonful saleratus, apinch of salt, and such flavoring as you like. This will make two 
cakes in a square tin. Have the oven read}^ put the cakes in, and while they are baking, 
get a cloth and the jelly ready on the table. As soon as they are baked, take them 
out and turn them one at a time on the cloth, spread quickly with jelly or marmalade, 
and roll up tightly in the cloth and lay them where they will cool. Handle them 
carefully or they may fall. Cut them with a sharp knife in slices. 

Sponge Cake. — Take one pound of granulated sugar beaten with the yolks of 
ten eggs. Grate into this the yellow rind of two lemons, and add the juice of one; 
then beat the whites of the ten eggs separately, very light, and add the same, stirring 
lightly together. To this add three-fourths of a pound of flour, and stir lightly with- 
out beating. This will make three good-sized loaves. Care must be taken in baking 
not to put the pans in too hot an oven. 

French Cream Cake. — Take three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one and a half 
cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. This is enough for two pans. Split the cakes while warm and spread the 
custard while hot between them. 

To make the custard, boil nearly one pint of sweet milk. Take two tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch. Beat up with a little milk to this. Add two well-beaten eggs. 



42 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

When the milk has boiled up stir this in slowly with nearly a teacupful of sugar. 
When almost clone add half a cupful of butter and flavor to taste. 

Delicate Cake. — Take one and one-half cupfuls of white sugar, half a cupful 
of butter; rub these to a cream. Add half a cupful of sweet milk, in which dis- 
solve half a teaspoonful of soda, and two cupfuls of flour, in which rub one teaspoonfu] 
of cream of tartar; add a little salt and flavor with vanilla or lemon. Beat the 
whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and add last. Bake slowly an hour in a moderate 
oven. This recipe will make a two-quart basin loaf, and if the proportions are fol- 
lowed exactly, a beautiful cake will be the result. 

Marble Cake.— The white part is made with one-half cupful of white sugar, 
one-half cupful of butter, half a cupful of sweet milk; whites of four eggs, two and 
one-half cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Flavor with lemon. 

For the spiced part take one cupful of brown sugar, one-half cupful of molasses, 
one-half cupful of butter, one cupful of sour milk. Take the yolks of five eggs, 
and the white of one egg, two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of 
cloves, one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

Orange Cake. — Use one cupful of butter, one of sweet milk, two of sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, five eggs, reserving the whites of three, to be 
beaten to a stiff froth to go between the cakes. The remainder of the five eggs must 
go in the batter. Three and a half cupfuls of flour; grate two oranges (picking out 
the seeds and large pieces) into the batter. Take two cupfuls of pulverized sugar, 
beat with the reserved whites as frosting ; then put between cakes as you would jelly 
cake. 

Drop Cakes. — Take one pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter and three eggs. Beat the butter and flour to a cream, beat the eggs separately, 
add the yolks and part of the flour, then the whites and the remainder of the flour. 
Stir in half a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of citron, and a teaspoonful 
of mace or cinnamon. Drop with a spoon upon flat tins, and sift sugar over them. 

Lady Fingers. — Beat the yolks of four eggs with a quarter of a pound of 
sugar until smooth and light; whisk the whites of the eggs and add to these, and sift 
in a quarter of a pound of flour. Make into a smooth paste, and lay it on buttered 
paper, in the size and shape the cakes are I'equired. Bake quickly. While hot, press 
two of the cakes into one on the flat side. 

Newport Cake. — Sift one quart of flour; add three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of white sugar, three of butter, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda, one 
cupful of sweet milk, or sufiicient to make a stiff batter. Bake quick and eat warm 
or cold. This is a superior tea cake. 

A Nice Cake. — Take two and one-half pounds of flour, one and one-fourth 
pounds of pulverized white sugar, ten ounces of fresh butter, five eggs, well beaten, 
one-eighth ounce of carbonate of ammonia, one pint of water; milk is better if you 
have it. Eoll out, cut into cakes and bake, While yet hot, dredge over with coarse 
sugar. 



CAKE-MAKING. 43 

X. More Good Cakes. 
Children's Party Cakes. — Take three lieaping tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, two of butter, one of maizena or corn starch, one egg; put with this two cup- 
f uls of flour, half a cupful of sweet milk, a teaspoonf ul of cream of tartar, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, a pinch of salt, and Zante currants. Roll this out in powdered 
sugar, cut the dough in strips, and twist round a thimble-sized pin. Sprinkle over 
this candied caraway-seeds, and bake in a brisk oven on flat tins. These are called 
children's party cakes, and also "goody" cakes. 

Scotcll Cake. — Take one pound of fine flour, a half-pound of fresh butter, a 
half-pound of finely sifted loaf sugar; mix well in a paste, roll out an inch thick in a 
square shape, pinch the edges so as to form small points ; ornament with comfits and 
orange-peel chips; bake in a quick oven until of a pale lemon color. 

Rice Cake. — Take about four ounces of rice flour, sift three ounces of wheat 
flour into it, add eight ounces of granulated sugar, the rind of a lemon grated fine, 
six eggs, using all the yolks, and but half the whites. Beat the whole together for 
about twenty minutes, and bake about three-quarters of an hour. 

Tea Cake. — Break one egg into a teacup. Fill the cup 
with sweet milk. One cupful of sugar, one-ht;lf cujiful of 
butter, a little nutmeg, one teaspoonful each of saleratus and 
cream of tartar. Flour to make it the consistency of common 
sponge cake. 

Christmas Cake. — Two eggs, one-half cupful of butter, 
CAKECUTTEE. ^^^ cupful of molasscs, one cupful of raisins, two cupfuls of 

flour, and various spices. Mix and bake in a rather brisk oven. 

Taylor Cake. — Two and one-half cupfuls of flour, one and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one-half cupful of milk, one egg, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and with or without fruit. 

Silver Cake. — Take one half coffee-cupful of butter, one and one-half cupful of 
sugar, two cupfuls flour, one-half cupful milk, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful soda and the whites of eight eggs. 

Gold Cake. — Use the same ingredients, and proceed in the same manner, only 
substituting the yolks of the eggs. 

" Widow's Cake." — A palatable cake to be eaten as bread or rusks at tea is 
made with two cupfuls flour, one of meal, teaspoonful soda; one cupful molasses, two 
eo-gs, salt. Mix with warm milk. Bake in a quick oven. 

Spice Cake. — One cupful of sugar, one cupful of sour milk, one cupful of 
raisins, one ego-, a nutmeg, one teaspoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of soda and three cupfuls of flour. Bake slowly but steadily until 

done. 

Another. One cupful butter, one of brown sugar, one and one-half of sour 

milk, one pint molasses, one tablespoonful saleratus, three eggs, cinnamon, cloves, 
allspice, nutmegs, citron, currants, raisins. Stir stiff with flour. 





44 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Hickory -Nut Cake.— Take a half cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar ami 
four eggs beaten separately ; then three cupfuls of flour, one-half cupful of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two cupfuls of hickory-nut meats cut fine, 
with one teaspoonful extract vanilla. 

XI. Gingerbread and Other " Homely " Cakes. 

Ginger Snaps. — One cuj)ful of brown sugar, one cupful of molasses, one cup- 
ful of lard, two eggs, a small teacup half full of boiling water, two teaspoonfuls of 
ginger, two of cinnamon, a teaspoonful of saleratus. Roll thin, cut out, and bake in 
a quick oven. 

Ginger Cookies. — One cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of sugar, two-thirds 
cupful of butter, one-half cupful of water, 
one egg, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus, 
one-half teaspoonful of alum, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, flour enough to roll 
out soft. Bake quick. cookie-pans. 

Sponge Gingerbread. — Sift two 
teaspoonfuls of soda and a dessert-spoonful of ginger, in two cupfuls of molasses. 
Stir thoroughly, and add four well-beaten eggs, one cupful of butter, melted, one 
cupful of sour milk or buttermilk, in which is dissolved one teaspoonful of soda. 
Add flour until the whole is of the consistency of a pretty thick batter. Make into 
two loaves and bake. 

Soft Gingerbread. — Take one cupful of molasses, one cuj^ful of sugar, one 
cupful of sour milk, half a cupful of butter, five cujofuls of sifted flour, and some- 
what more than half a teaspoonful of soda. Melt the butter in the molasses and 
sugar, with the soda, add the ginger, and, if you like, a little cloves, the sour milk and 
flour. The cake should be just stiff enough (a thick batter) to rise nicely in baking 
and not fall afterwards. 

Ginger Cake. — Two cupfuls molasses, one cupful butter, one and a half cup- 
fuls sour milk, three and a half cupfuls flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls saleratus, 
one tablespoonful ginger, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful cloves. 

Cookies. — One cupful of white sugar, rolled fine, and mixed with a half-cupful 
of butter; a half cupful of sour cream, mixed with a half teaspoonful saleratus. 
Add two eggs thoroughly beaten. Season with caraway-seeds or nutmeg. Eoll thin, 
sprinkle sugar on. Roll lightly once, cut them out in a circular shape and bake them 
in a quick oven. 

Soda Cakes. — Take one quart of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, and one of cream 
of tartar, dissolved in hot water; one tablespoonful of lard and one of butter, rubbed 
into the flour; a little salt, mix soft with sour milk or buttermilk, and cut with a tin 
in round cakes; bake in a quick oven. 

Short-Cake. — Mix with a pint of flour a lump of butter the size of an egg, rub 
up well with baking powder, or use two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in flour; 



CAKE-MAKING. 45 

powder fine one teaspoonful saleratus. Add one cupful of cold water. Make a stiff 
batter ; add flour if needed. Bake on tin for tea. If you use buttermilk you will 
not need cream of tartar, nor as much butter. 

Custard Cake. — Two cupfuls powdered sugar, one-half cupful sweet milk, six 
tablespooufuls melted butter, one teaspoonful baking powder, two and one-half cup- 
fuls flour; bake as for jelly cake, and when cool, add the following custard: One 
pint milk, three eggs, sugar and flour to suit the taste, and prepare as for boiled 
custard. 

Drop Johnnies,— One cupful sugar and two eggs well beaten together, one 
cupful cream, three cupfuls buttermilk, one large heaping teaspoonful of saleratus. 
Salt and spice to suit your taste. Thicken with flour to a stiff batter. Drop in hot 
fat, a spoonful at a time. Fry the same as fried cakes. 

Virginia Apple Cake.— One cupful of bread- dough, one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar. When ready, roll an inch thick, put it in a long pan, then slice good baking 
apples thin, and put smoothly over the dough; sprinkle sugar, butter and cinnamon 
over, and bake. 

Pork Cake. — Chop one pound fat pork very fine. Stone and chop one pound 
raisins. Pour a pint of boiling water over the pork. Use one cupful of molasses, 
two of sugar, eight of flour, one tablespoonful ground cloves, one of cinnamon, one 
of saleratus, one egg — the white to be added last. 

Yankee Doughnuts, Raised. — Heat a pint of milk just lukewarm, and stir 
into it a small cu2:)ful of melted lard, and sifted flour until it is a thick batter; add a 
small cupful of domestic yeast, and keep it warm until the batter is light; then work 
into it four beaten eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, rolled free from lumps, a teaspoonful 
of salt and two of cinnamon. When the whole is well mixed, knead in wheat flour 
until about as stiff as biscuit dough. Set it where it will keep warm until of a spongy 
lio-htness; then roll the dough out half an inch thick and cut it into cakes. Let them 
remain until light, then fry them in hot lard. 

Pried Cakes. — Take four cupfuls of white sugar, four of buttermilk, one of 
butter, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of soda. Season with cinnamon, mix quite hard, 
roll half an inch thick, cut in rings. They will fry much nicer than when twisted. 

Griddle-Cakes. — To one quart of flour add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
and one three-fourths full of soda, mix with sour or butter milk, and bake on a grid- 
dle; season t«j taste. Buttermilk cakes made the same way, adding two eggs, are 

very — -f- 

Coffee Cake. — One teacupful of brown sugar, one of molasses, one of lukewarm 
strono- coffee, one egg, one cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one pound of 
raisins. Use plenty of spice. This cake is much nicer for dipping in coffee if it is 
not cut until it is several days old. 

XII. The Housewife's Table of Equivalents. 
Often in giving recipes — cup, wineglass, spoon, etc., are mentioned. It is the 



46 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

usual way in which ladies measure, and the majority of the recipes we have given 
"eTe Wished by ladies who are excellent cooks. The following table is one of 
equivalents that will be found approximately correct. 

. . One quart. 

Wheat flour-one pound IS One quart. 

Indian meal— one pound two ounces are ^^^ ^ ^^^^^^^ 

Butter, when soft>— one pound is ^^^ ^ ^^^.j.' 

Loaf sugar, brolien— one pound is ^^ _^^,^' 

White sugar, powdered-one pound one ounce are One quart 

Best brown sugar— one pound two ounces are ^^^ pound. 

Ten eggs are ....■• ■ One-half pint 

Sixteen large tablespoonfuls are ^^^ ^.^^ 

Eight large tablespoonfuls are One-half gill. 

Four large tablespoonfuls are One-half pint. 

Two gills are ^ One quart. 

Two pints are One gallon. 

Four quarts are • • • • • _ One-half pint. 

A connnon-sized tumbler holds One-half gill. 

A common-sized wuieglass holds ^^^^^^^ ounces 

A large .vineglass equal to ■ Q^^.j^^^jf ^'^^ee. 

A tablespoonful equal to ^^^ 

A teacup holds ' ' " one o-iu' 

A large wineglass holds One teaspoonful 

Forty drops are equal to One tablespoonful. 

Four teaspoonfuls are equal to 




ENGLISH COUNTKT HOUSE.— BRICK WITH STONE THIMMINGS. 



CHAPTER IV. 
BEVERAGES, ICES AND CANDIES. 



I. PURE WATER AS A BEVERAGE. II. TEA AND COFFEE. ni. HOW TO MAKE TEA. IV. THE 

TEA-JVIAiaNG OP VAlilOUS I'EOPLES. V. A CUP OP COFFEE. VI. CHOCOLATE. VII. REFRESH- 
ING DRINKS. VUI. SUiMMER DRINKS IX. TOMATO BEER. X. ICE CREAM AND WATER ICES. 

XI. CANDY-MAEING. XU. CANDIED FRUIT. 

j^^ I. Pure Water as a Beverage. 

fiil^O person, now-a-days, can altogether get along without some beverage other 
^mM than pure water. Not that the water drunk by man is pure; none of it is, for 
^^^ the minerals contained in the purest spring water, from the chemist's stand- 
point render it impure, but not, on this account, unhealthful. In fact, the 
lime, soda, magnesia, and other minerals of spring and well water, if it is in no way 
impregnated by leachings of the house or barn-yard, or uncontaminated with sewage, 
is more healthful than chemically pure water. But if impregnated with these last- 
named impurities, it is more deadly than the miasma of Roman 
marshes in the dog-days. 

Impurities in Well-Water. — The water of a well may 
be bright, sparkling and most pleasant to the taste, and yet 
contain the deadly typhus and noxious germs, bringing diph- 
theria, meningitis, and other diseases that so mysteriously 
appear in neighborhoods apparently good in sanitary surround- 
ings. How, then, do these germs reach a well, sunk in strong 
clay to a living stream of water, deep in gravel below? They 
come in by the surface water. The roots of the willows and 
most other trees go to water if they can. Every insect bur- 
rowing in the soil must have water, and they invariably burrow 
there, especially in great droughts, and seek the water of the 
well. Their burrows convey water from cesspools, house- 
drains, barn-yards, etc., for considerable distances, through 
the otherwise impervious clay. In digging or boring a well, 
the section down to, and partly into, the impervious clay 
should be larger than the rest, and strongly cemented with the 
best water lime at the back, and the stone or brick laid with 
the same material. But, after all, the only safe way to escape 
impurities is to boil all the water that is used for drinking. 
If the water is muddy, or has other mechanical impurities, it may be improved by 
filtering But water is not, never has been, and never will be, the exclusive beverage 

^' [47] 




WATER-FILTER AND 
COOLER. 



48 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



of Civilized man. It is not so of even the most stivage nations. Let us, therefore, 







V / 

' ,. V 




TEA LEAVES, NATURAL SIZE. 

give some of the more innocent and pleasant of the artificial bevera<^es. 



BEVERAGES, ICES AND CANDIES. 49 

II. Tea and Coffee. 

Tea, to be good, must be fresh, unadulterated, and be kept dark, and away from 
the air. 

Roasting Coffee. — Coffee when roasted, and especially when ground, loses its 
aroma. If roasted too fast or too much, it is little better than so much charcoal. 
Hence it should be roasted in an implement made for the purpose, or else in a closed 
vessel slowly and with constant motion. If a little butter and sugar be beaten together 
and added to the coffee after it becomes hot, it will assist in holding the aroma, the 
essential part of coffee. 

III. Hq-w to Make Tea. 

The old-fashioned rule, and a good one, is a heaping teaspoonful for each person 
and an exti-a one for the pot. For, unlike the Chinese, we drink tea strong, and with 
milk or sugar, or both. Tea should be made with soft water. Filtered rain-water is 
good. One way is to scald a metal teapot, put in the tea, pour in half the required 
quantity of boiling water, cover the pot with a "cosey," (a quilted cover to slip over 
the pot to keep it hot), and at the end of ten or fifteen minutes add the other half of 
the water. It is then ready to be poured into hot teacups. 

Serve by filling the cups half full. Then add more water to the pot and fill the 
cups, not too full. 

Another way of making tea is to scald the pot, again fill it with boiling water, 
then put in the proper quantity of tea and let it stand, covered, until the leaves settle 
to the bottom of the pot, or about ten minutes. 

IV. The Tea- Making of Varioua Peoples. 

The Chinaman puts his tea in a cup, and pours hot water upon it, and drinks the 
infusion of the leaves without addition. The Japanese triturates the leaves before 
puttino- them into the pot. In Morocco, they put green tea, a little tansy and a great 
deal of sugar in the teapot, and fill up with boiling water. In Bokhara, every man 
carries a small bag of tea about with him, a certain quantity of which he hands over 
to the booth-keeper whom he patronizes, who concocts the beverage for him. The 
Bokhariote tea-toper finds it as difficult to pass a tea-booth as our dram-drinker does 
to go by a whiskey-shop. His breakfast beverage is Schitschaj, that is, tea flavored 
with milk, cream or mutton fat, in which bread is soaked. During the daytime, 
suo-arless green tea is drunk, with the accompaniment of cakes of flour and mutton 
suet. It is considered an inexcusable breach of manners to cool the hot cup of tea 
with the breath ; but the diflSculty is overcome by supporting the right elbow in the 
left hand and giving a circular movement to the cup. How long each kind of tea 
takes to draw is calculated to the second ; and when the teapot is emptied it is passed 
round amonc the company for each tea-drinker to take up as many leaves as can be 
held between the thumb and finger — the leaves being esteemed by these people an 
especial dainty. 



so 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 




COFFEE-EOASTEK. 



V. A Cup of Coffee. 

Shekbaddin, an old Arab author, asserts that the first man who drank coffee was 
a Mufti of Aden, who lived about A. D. 1500, or, as he puts it, in the ninth century 
of the Hegira. Even Arab authors should always 
leave room for a proviso. Perhaps some obscure 
person whose name has never come down to pos- 
terity, may have seen goats get "skittish" from 
eating the berries, as is related of a certain Der- 
vish who is also credited with thus having discov- 
ered the virtue of cahui, as it was originally 
called. Coffee is good enough English, though 
an ex-alderman of Chicago is said to have spelled 
it without using a single correct letter, "kawphy." 
He did, however, get in two letters of the original 
name. He spells the name of his adopted city 
"Shecawgow." 

How to Make Coffee. — There are many ways of making it. It is brewed, 
boiled, filtered and generally baked, not roasted. We have shown that it should be roasted. 
Good coffee is made by taking freshly ground coffee (or if cold, warm the ground 
coffee), at the rate of four heaping tablespoonfuls for each three cups, on the prin- 
ciple of one for the pot. Scald the pot, put in the coffee, pour on boiling water, let 
it steep five minutes, strain, and then let it just boil up. If you have a filtering 
machine, patent digester, etc., use if you like. 

When coffee is made it should be drunk at once. The cups should be hot, the 
cream thick, well stirred, and the sugar white. If you have bought whole coffee, of 
good quality; and if you have dried, roasted, and ground it yourself, there is no 
reason why you, the farmer's wife, with cream at home, should not have coffee of 
the best. 

Artificial Cream for Coffee. — Beat well one egg, with one spoonful of sugar ; 
pour a pint of scalding hot milk over this, stirring it briskly. Make it the night 
previous. 

VI. Chocolate. 

The rule for chocolate is, two ounces of the cake, grated or thinly sliced, to 
each pint of boiling milk. Put the chocolate into a pot fitted with a " muller," pour 
on the boiling milk by degrees, mulling it as you proceed, over a slow heat, until it is 
hot and frothy. Or it may be frothed, fairly, with any of the modern whiskers for 
beating eggs. 

When chocolate is used every day, a cake of chocolate is dissolved in a pint of 
boiling water by mulling it, but not on the fire. When mulled, set it on the fire until 
it boils up. It will keep ten days or more in a cool place. When used, mix in proper 
proportion with milk, and mull as heretofijre directed. 



BEVERAGES. ICES AND CANDIES. 51 

VII. Refreshing Drinks. 

Most persons drink too much, and, especially in hot weather, too much at a time. 
To drink a httle slowly, is the way to quench thirst. Ice-water, especially, should be 
drunk sparingly. A most excellent substitute for it is pounded ice, taken in small 
lumps in the mouth, and allowed to dissolve upon the tongue. This will prove refresh- 
ing, and much more enduring in its effects. 

To Make Lemonade. — Roll the lemons until they become soft. Grate the 
rinds, cut the lemons in slices, and squeeze them into a pitcher (a new clothes-pin will 
answer for a squeezer in lieu of something better) ; pour in the required quantity of 
water, and sweeten according to taste. The grated rinds, for the sake of their aroma, 
should be added to it. After mixing thoroughly, set the pitcher aside for half an 
hour; then strain the liquor through a jelly-strainer, and put in the ice. 

Travelers may carry a box of lemon sugar, prepared from citric acid and sugar, 
a little of which in a glass of ice-water will furnish quite a refreshing drink, and one 
that oftentimes averts sick-headache and biliousness. Citric acid is obtained from the 
juice of lemons and limes. 

Clierry Syrup. — Take six pounds of cherries, and bruise them ; pour on a pint 
and a half of hot water, and boil for fifteen minutes ; strain through a flannel bag, 
and add three pounds of sugar; boil half an hour or more, or until the liquid will 
sink to the bottom of a cup of water (try it with a teaspoonful of the liquid) ; then 
turn into jelly-cups, and cover with paper dipped in the white of an egg. A syrup 
may thus be prepared of any fruit. 

To Prepare the Drink. — Put a spoonful of the jelly in a goblet of water, and 
let it stand about ten minutes ; then stir it up, and fill it with pounded ice. Cun-ants 
and raspberries made into "shrub," furnish a pleasant and cooling drink when mixed 
with ice-water. Pounded ice is also an agreeable addition to a saucer of strawberries, 
raspberries or currants. Pound it until it is almost as fine as snow, and spread it 
over the berries. With fruit it is also an excellent substitute for cream. 

VIII. Summer Drinks. 

Spruce Beer. — Allow an ounce of hops and a tablespoonful of ginger to a 
gallon of water. "When well boiled strain it, and put in a pint of molasses and half 
an ounce or less of the essence of spruce ; when cold add a teacupf ul of yeast ; put it 
in a clean, tight cask (a jug will do), and let it ferment for a day or two; then bottle 
it for use — you will find it good after three days. 

Beer of Sulphuric Acid. — Take of dilute sulphui-ic acid and concentrated in- 
fusion of orange-peel, each twelve drachms; syrup of orange-peel, five fluid ounces. 
This quantity is added to two imperial gallons of water. A large wineglassful is 
taken for a draught, mixed with more or less water according to taste. This beer is 
entirely harmless, even if taken in considerable quantities, and is refreshing in hot 
weather. 

Cream of Tartar Beer. — Mix two ounces of cream of tartar, three pounds of 



62 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



brown sugar, three quarts of }'east. To bo mixed and allowed to work. This makes, 
ten gallons, and should be drunk as soon as worked. A strong syrup of pie-plant 
stalks makes an excellent beer prepared as above, but without the tartaric acid. 

Beer of Various Fruits. — Have two quarts of water boiling, split six figs. 
and cut two apples into six or eight slices each ; boil the whole together twenty 
minutes; pour the liquid into a basin to cool, and pass through a sieve, when it is 
ready for use. The figs and apples may be drained for eating with a little boiled rice. 
A delicious beverage ma}' be made from currants, cherries or blackberries b}'' this recipe. 

Cream Beer. — Two and one-fourth pounds white sugar, two pounds of tartaric 
acid, and the juice of two lemons and three pints of water. Boil together five minutes. 
When nearly cold, add the whites of three eggs well beaten, half a cupful of flour 
well beaten, one-half ounce of wintergreen essence. Bottle and keep in a cool place. 
Use two tablespoonfuls of the s^yrup in a tumbler of ice-water. Add one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of soda just at the moment you wish to drink, but shake the bottle of syrup 
before usius;. It is cool and refreshin<'-. 



IX. Tomato Beer. 

Gather the fruit, stem, wash and mash it; strain through a coarse linen bag, 
and to every gallon of the juice add three pounds of good brown sugar. Let it stand 
nine days, and then i:)our it off from the pulp which will settle in the bottom of the 
jar. Bottle it closely, and the longer you keep it the better it is. Take a pitcher 
that will hold as much as you want to use, fill it nearly full of fresh sweetened water, 
add a few drops of essence of lemon. To every gallon of sweetened water add a half- 
tumblerful of beer. This is a favorite drink in the Southern States of America, and 
is healthful. 

Home-Made Bitters. — Take half 

an ounce of the yolk of fresh eggs care- 
full}' separated from the whites ; half an 
ounce of gentian-root; one and a half 
drachms of orange-peel, and one pint of 
boiling water. Pour the water hot upon 
the ingredients mentioned, and let them 
steep in it for two hours; then strain, and 
bottle for use. 

X. Ice Cream and Water Ices. 

Ice cream is a preparation of milk or 
cream, with egg, suo-ar and flavoring, and 
frozen in an ice cream freezer. Water ices 
are the juices of fruits sweetened with su- 

1 , , n Ti . ICE CREAM FREEZER-INTERNAL ARRjVNGEMENT. 

gars, syrup, and then frozen like ice cream. 

Ices are often made with fruit flavors chemically prepared. They should never 




BEVERAGES. ICES AND CANDIES. 53 

be swalloAved unless you know that they are made of the juices of real fruits. 
The ice cream of cheap restaurants, also, is often made of the most horrible com- 
pounds, including French clay and poisonous colorings. It is often, like the lemon- 
ade sold by circus-men, without a i)article of what should constitute it — excej^t the 
water — but much that should not be there. Ice cream and water ices are easily made 
b}'- any family having ice. > 

Ice Cream. — In every quart of cream mix six ounces of crushed white 
sugar, and flavor with extract of vanilla, strawberry, pineapple, lemon or other flavor 
you may like. Add the white of an egg, frothed. Mix the whole together by thor- 
oughh' Vieating it, and stir in an ice cream freezer, until fully congealed. 

Water Ice. — Water ices are made by making a syrup of white sugar of the 
proper sweetness. Then add the fruit-juice, the whites of eggs, dilute and freeze in 
the ice cream freezer. A few trials will enable you to make it to your taste. Try 
the syrup of a strength, first, sufiicicnt to bear up a fresh egg, so that a section of the 
egg the size of a ten-cent piece shows above the surface, and you will soon learn how 
to vary it. 

XI. Candy-Making. 

Candy can, probably, be bought more cheaply than it can be made at home. 
Home-made candy, however, is pure. Candy sold at, or near, the price of sugar is 
not pure. 

Molasses Candy. — We give two excellent recipes: 

1. Take two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
vineo-ar, and a piece of butter the size of a hickory-nut. Boil briskly twenty minutes, 
stirrino" all the time. When cool, pull until white. 

2. Take one large coffee-cupful of molasses and two very large tablespoonfuls 
of suo^ar, and boil as rapidly as possible for twent}^ minutes. Try if it is brittle by 
dropping into cold water. When done, rub one-half teaspoonful soda smooth, and 
stir dry into the boiling candy. Mix it thoroughly and pour into buttered pans. Stir 
while boilino- to keep it from burning. Do not pull. If you like pop-corn balls, pop 
it fresh, and stir into a part or whole of it. 

Sugar Candy. — Six cupfuls sugar, one of vinegar, one of water, one spoonful 
of butter, and one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water; boil all together 
without stirrino-. When it becomes hard, not brittle (test by dropping a little into 
cold water), flavor with lemon, wintergreen or peppermint, and turn out on buttered 
plates to cool. It is nice pulled, or left on the plate and cut in squares. 

White Sugar Candy. — Two cupfuls of white sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, a cupful of cold water, and teaspoonful of butter. Boil without 

stirring. 

Chocolate Caramels. — One cupful of molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, 
one cupful of milk, one-half cujjful of grated chocolate, butter the size of an egg. 
Boil half an hour. 



54 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Cocoanut Candy. — Two cupfuls of white sugar, one-fourth cupful of water; 
boil; put the pan in a larger pan of water, and stir until cool; when it begins to get 
somewhat stiff and cool enough, stir in the grated cocoanut, and stir until cold. Cut 
into cakes. The meats of any nuts, chopped or grated, may be used. The name of 
the candy coming from the nuts. 

XII. Candied Fruit. 

After peaches, plums, citrons or quinces have been preserved, take the fruit 
from the syrup and drain it in a sieve. To a pound of loaf sugar put half a teacupful 
of water; when it is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire; when boiling-hot, put in 
the fruit ; stir it continually until the sugar is candied about it ; then take it upon a 
sieve, and dry it in a warm oven or before a fire. Repeat this two or three times, if 
you wish. 




A SHOWY HOUSE OF SEVEN KOOMS. 



CHAPTER V. 
PRESERVING. DRYING AND CANNING FRUIT. 




OLD AXD NEW WAYS OF PEESEEVING. II. CANNING FRUIT. III. HOW TO PRESERVE FRUIT. 

IV. CANNIXCi WHOLE FRUIT— PEACHES. V. CANNING TOMATOES. VI. CANNING VEGETABLES. 

Vn. PRESERVING IN SUGAR. VIII. MARMALADE. IX. JAM OP APPLES AND OTHER FRUITS. 

X. JELLIES. XI. SYRUPS— BLACKBERRY, ETC. XII. DRYING FRUITS. XIII. MISCELLANEOUS 

RECIPES FOB PRESERVING. XIV. BRANDY PEACHES AND OTHER BRANDIED FRUITS. 

I, Old EDd New Ways of Preserving. 

^^^^ANY persons, not much past middle age, can remember the time when preserving 
meant cooking the articles in sugar, pound for pound, making a conserve rather 
than a preserve. The other plan of preserving was to dry the fruit in the 
sun, having first cut it into thin strips, or other sections. Since then, the 
Avorld has moved. Very little preserving, in the old-fashioned way, with sugar, 
" pound for pound," is now done. The fruits are either dried, put up in self-sealing 
cans or made into jelly. 

Rules for Preserving. — A flannel bag is the best for straining jelly. If pos- 
sible, avoid putting jelly in any stage in a metal vessel, unless silvered. For every 
pint of strained juice allow a pound of sugar. Granulated sugar is the best. 

In all cases it is best to boil the juice fifteen minutes before adding the sugar, 
thus insuring the necessary evaporation, and avoiding the liability to burn it. 

It is well also to heat the sugar before it is added, as in so doing the boiling pro- 
cess will not be interrupted. 

All jelly should be made over a moderate fire, and be carefully watched and 
skimmed. 

In making preserves, there must be no economy of time and care, and the fruit 
must be fresh. 

Boil without covering, and very gently. 

Jellies and jams must not be covered and put away until cold. 

Marmalades require constant stirring. 

In making jams, boil the fruit fifteen minutes before adding the sugar. 

Mash the fruit before cooking. 

Jellies. In making jellies, from half to three-quarters of a pound of sugar is 

allowed for each pint, or pound, of strained juice; currants require a pound to 
a pint. 

II. Canning Fruits. 

In canning fruits only enough sugar is used to suit the taste. One quarter of a 

[55] 



66 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



pound to a pound of fruit is enough; but many use half a pound. None but the 
finest white sugar is to be used. 

If put in glass, the cans must be kept in a perfectly dark place, and kept as cold 
as possible without freezing. The larger fruits, such as peaches, pears, etc., may be 
placed in a steamer, Over a kettle of boiling water to cook. Then drop) the fruit into 
a syrup of the right consistency, fill from there into the cans, pour over all the boiling 
syrup, and seal immediately. 

Fruits, and How to Can. — Fruits for canning should be of the best quality, 
and not over ripe. Berries and all that kind of fruits are to be cooked in the syrup 
and then ladled into cans. The cans should always sit in a hot-water bath whilst 
being filled. Fit on the cover and pour the wax around the cover of the lid. The 
wax must cover every crevice. Set the cans carefully awa}', and in three or four 
days examine them to see that they are perfectly tight. Those that are not so must 
be reheated and rewaxed. Examine again in a week or ten days for signs of 
ferment. 

If these directions are carefully observed, tin is as good as glass, provided it is 
clean and bright, and again thoroughly cleaned and dried the minute the fruit is taken 
out. Then, if put away in a perfectly dry place, the fruit will remain perfect for 
years. 

III. How to Preserve Fruit. 

We give a table of the time different fruits should be boiled, and the amount of 
sugar per quart, can or jar. Thus any person by observing the foregoing rules may 
can any of the articles named: 



TIME OF BOILING FRUIT. 

Cherries, moderately, 5 minutes. 

Raspberries, moderately, 6 

Blackberries, moderately, .... 6 

Plums, moderately, 10 

Strawberries, moderately, .... 15 

Whortleberries, moderately, ... 5 

Pie plant, sliced, 10 

Small sour pears, whole, 30 

Bartlett pears, in halves, 20 

Peaches, in halves, 8 

Peaches, whole, 15 

Pineapples, sliced, 15 

Siberian or crab-apples, whole, . . 25 

Scur apples, quartered, 10 

Kipe currants, . 6 

Wild grapes, 10 

Tomatoes, 20 



AMOUNT OF SUGAR TO A QUAUT CAN OR JAR. 

For Cherries, 6 ounces. 

" Raspberries, 4 " 

" Blackberries, 6 " 

" Field blackberries, 6 " 

" Strawberries, 8 " 

" ^Vhortleberries, 4 " 

" Quinces, 10 " 

" Small sour pears whole, .... 8 " 

" Wild grapes, 8 " 

" Peaches, 4 " 

" Bartlett pears, 6 " 

" Pineapples, 6 " 

" Siberian or crab-apples, .... 8 " 

" Pie plant, 10 " 

" Plums, 8 " 

" Sour apples, 6 " 

" Ripe currants, 8 " 



All stone fruits should be pitted, and pip fruits— apples, pears, etc., should be 
peeled and have the core removed. Berries are cooked in their natural state. 



PRESERVING, nRYING AND CANNING FRUIT. 57 

IV. Canning Whole Fruit— Peaches. 

The directions for canning peaches will serve for all fruits that arc to retain their 
shape. Select fruit of firm and good quality. It is nonsense to suppose that inferior 
fruit is good enough to can. Pare and place in a steamer over boiling water. Put a 
dish under the fruit to catch the juice, afterwards to be strained and added to the 
syrup. Let them steam accoi-ding directions in the table, or until they may be i)ierced 
with a broom straw. Make a syrup of the best sugar, have it boiling hot, dip the 
fruit into the syrup and put it into the cans or jars. Then pour over the boiling 
syrup to fill the vessel. Seal immediately over the steam. 

When Glass is Used. — If glass is used the jars should be set in the water 
bath on straw or folded cloth, and come to a boiling heat gradually, or they will break. 
Another thing to be remembered, is, that syrup should be well skimmed before 
being poured over the fruit. 

V. Canning Tomatoes. 

Pour scalding water over tomatoes that are ripe, but not too ripe. Remove the 
skins, slice, cook in a porcelain-lined kettle, with a little salt, pour hot into the cans 
and seal. Those that are to be used during the winter may be put into wide-niouthed 
jugs of one gallon each, since in cold weather they will keep for some time after being 
opened. 

VI. Canning Vegetables. 

The difficulty in keeping vegetables prevents their being canned in the country. 
They really should be sealed hermetically in a dense cloud of steam, and when boiling 
hot. The directions for canning corn will suffice for the kitchen. Cut, or better, 
pare and scrape the corn from the cob, and when it comes to a boil fill it into tin cans 
and solder hermetically — air tight. Puncture the top of each can with a small hole 
for the escape of steam. Set the cans in a vessel of water and boil hard for two 
hours. Then, while the steam is rising, drop a little solder over the hole. Keep in a 
cool place. 

VII. Preserving in Sugar. 

Very little fruit is so preserved nowadays. This plan is generally used for rinds, 
like citron, melon, etc. The directions for watermelon will answer for all: After 
cutting your rind properly, boil it it clean water, with vine leaves between each layer; 
a piece of alum, the size of a hickory nut, is sufficient for a kettleful. After boiling 
it, put it into ice-water to cool; then repeat this a second time, each time putting it 
to cool; each time boiling one hour. Prepare the syrup with one and one-fourth 
pounds of sugar to each pound of fruit; green ginger boiled in the water you make 
your syrup with flavors it, or three lemons to six pounds of fruit. If the syrup 
thickens too fast, add a little water; the rind should be boiled in the water until clear 
and green. 



58 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

VIII. Marmalade. 

This is a kind of preserves that is much liked. Quince, peach and apple mar- 
malade are the kinds mostly prepared, though any fruits may be used. Marmalade 
should be put away in jars covered with oiled paper, and made perfectly aii'-tight. 

Quince Marmalade. — Select ripe yellow quinces, wash clean, pare and core 
them and cut them into small pieces. To each pound of quinces allow half a pound 
of white sugar; put the parings and cores into a kettle, with enough water to cover 
them, and boil slowly until quite soft. Then, having put the quinces with the sugar 
in a porcelain kettle, strain over them, through a cloth, the liquid from the parings, 
and cover; boil the whole over a clear tire until it becomes quite smooth and thick, 
keeping it covered, except when you are skimming it, a.nd watching and stirring 
closely, to prevent sticking at the bottom. When cold, put in glass jars. 

Peach Marmalade — Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit ; boil the pits until the water is well flavored; peel and quarter the peaches, and 
add to the water boiling, half an hour before adding the sugar ; stir constantly ; boil 
an hour after adding the sugar. 

Apple Marmalade. — Select four pounds of cooking apples; pare and core 
them, put them in an enameled saucepan with about a quart of sweet cider and two 
pounds of white sugar. Boil them until the fruit is quite soft. Squeeze it through 
a colander, and then through a sieve. 

Strawberry Marm.alade. — Pick ripe strawberries free from hull ; to a pound 
of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of sugar; mash them together in a smooth 
mass; put them in a kettle over a gentle tire; stir with a wooden spoon, and cook 
until it is jelly-like and thick; cool a little, and if it thickens up like jelly, it is done. 
Then put in small jars or tumblers, and cover with paper as directed above. 

Plum Marmalade. — Simmer the plums in water until they become soft, and 
then strain them and pass the pulp through a sieve. Put in a pan over a slow fire, 
together with an equal quantity of powdered loaf sugar; mix the whole well together, 
and let it simmer for some time until it becomes of the proper consistence. Then 
pour it into jelly-pots, and cover the surface with powdered loaf sugar. 

Orange Marmalade. — Boil small oranges in water until they can be easily 
pierced with a straw, and then cut in quarters. Allow half a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit, and make a clear syrup ; put in the fruit and cook over a slow fire 
until the fruit is clear; then stir in an ounce of isinglass and let it boil again; first 
take out the oranges and strain the jelly over them. 

IX. Jam of Apples and Other Fruits. 

The apples should be ripe and of the best eating sort. Pare and quarter, put 
into a pan with just water enough to cover them, and boil until they can be reduced 
to a mash. Then for each pound of the pared apples, a pound of sifted sugar is 
added, sprinkled over the boiling mixture. Boil and stir it well until reduced to a 



PRESERVING. DRYING AND CANNING FRUIT. 



59 



juiii. Then put it into pots. The above is the simple way of making. To have it 
of the best possible clearness, make a thick syrup with three pounds of sugar to each 
pint of water and clarify it with an egg. Then add one pint of this syrup for every 
three pounds of apples, and boil the jam to a proper thickness. This recipe will 
answer for all the pip fruits. Sour stone fruits require up to half a pound of sugar 
to a pound of fruit, according to taste. 

Gooseberry Jam.— Boil the fruit until perfectly tender, then add three-quar- 
ters of a pound of white sugar to every pound of fruit, and cook an hour. 

Spiced Jam. — A nice relish for cold meats is as follows: Take five pounds of 
gooseberries, or other acid fruit, three pounds of sugar, well-cooked. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of pepper, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of allspice and 
a little mace, if you like it; cook as above. 

Strawberry or Raspberry Jam. — To one pound of berries allow one and 
one-quarter pounds of sugar; heat an earthen bowl hot on the stove, then remove it 
from the stove and put into it the berries and sugar, and beat them hard with a 
wooden spoon for as much as an hour and a half; do not cook at all, but put in jars 
with egg papers. 

X. Jellies. 



Jelly making is not difficult. It simply requires exactness and care. 

1. The fruit for jellies requires to be ripe, but not dead ripe, for if much over- 
ripe the juice is not so rich. 

2. The fruit must be gathered when dry; it must not be wet with rain and dew. 

3. It should not lie long in bulk after being picked. 
Here is where those who raise their own fruit have the 
advantage, for any purpose, over those who buy their 
fruit: it is always fresh. 

4. Weigh the fruit, if currants without removing 
the stems, and allow half a pound of loaf or pure gran- 
ulated sugar to each pound of fruit 

5. If the fruit requires rinsing do so quickly and 
let the fruit dry again. 

6. Use only a porcelain-lined kettle for preserving. 
There is really no objection to a brass kettle but it must 
be thoroughly cleaned both Ijefore and after using. 

7. In making jelly, pound a portion of the fruit, 
to get some juice for the bottom of the kettle, to prevent burning. Then add the 
remainder and boil freely for twenty minutes or more, stirring often enough to pre- 
vent burning. 

8. Let your straining-bag be three-cornered and of strong material and long, so 
it may be properly twisted to get pressure. Strain the juice into a porcelain-lined 
pan. 




FKUIT AND JELLY PRESS. 



60 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

9. Keturn the liquid to the kettle, and when it has boiled up add the sugar, 
previously weighed. 

10. When the sugar has thoroughlj^ dissolved, the jelly will be done, and should 
be put into the jelly-glasses or forms. If you have j)roperly observed the directions, 
it will coagulate upon the side of the dipper as it is taken out. So there can be no 
doubt of the result. 

11. The general rules for making jellies may be slated as follows: In making 
jeUies of apricots, quinces, i>eaches, apples or plums, peel, remove the stones or 
cores, cut in pieces, cover with water, and boil gently until well cooked; then strain 
the juice gently through a jelly bag, and add a half pint of sugar to a pint of juice. 
For berries, a pound of sugar to a pint of juice; boil until it ropes from the spoon, or 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. In making raspberry jelly use one-third currants 
and two-thirds raspberries. 

12. To keep jellies from molding : Pulverize loaf sugar as fine as flour if pos- 
sible, and cover the surface of the jelly with this to the depth of one-fourth of an 
inch. This will prevent mold, even if the jellies are kept for years. 

By the rules we have given, jelly may be made of any of the fruits, but some 
fruits require strong pressure. In fact, the jelly bag may always be profitably 
twisted by means • of a stick in the hands of two persons, the stick having been 
entangled in the end of the jelly bag. 

Currant Jelly Without Cooking.— Press the juice from the currants, and 
strain it; to every pint put a pound of fine white sugar ; mix them together until the 
sugar is dissolved; then put it into jars; seal them and expose them to a hot sun for 
two or three days. 

Crab- Apple Jelly. — Select fresh, sound fruit, not more than fully ripe. Place 
one gallon of the fruit in an earthen or porcelain kettle and add one pint of water. 
Heat slowly until it boils. Continue to cook slowly until the fruit begins to come to 
pieces, then turn off the juice immediately, pressing the fruit gently back in the 
kettle as long as the liquor will run off clear. Then strain twice through a fine cloth 
strainer. Add one pound of the best white sugar for every pound of the juice. 
Boil ten or fifteen minutes. Skim carefully while boiling. 

Grape Jelly. — Grapes for jelly should be used before they are ripe, or when 
just turning. Stem the grapes and slightly cook them ; then strain and use a pint of 
sugar to a pint of juice. It makes the jelly of a light-red color, and much finer 
flavored than ripe grapes. 

Pig Jelly. — Wash the figs, and add water enough to cover the fruit. Boil twenty 
minutes, strain, then add sugar, and boil ten to twenty minutes. 

XI. Syrups. 
Syeups are used principally for their medicinal qualities. Blackberry and elder- 
berry are generally used, but all fruits have more or less cooling, anti-febrile qual- 
ities. The directions here given will apply as well to any other berries of which the 

extract can be gotten, as to blackberries. 

59 



PRESERVING, DRYING AND CANNING FRUIT. 61 

Blackberry Syrup. — Make a simple syrup of a jwund of sugar to each pint 
of water, and boil it until it is rich and thick. Then add to it as many pints of the 
expressed juice of ripe blackberries as there are pounds of sugar; put half a nutmeg, 
grated, to each quart of syrup; let it boil fifteen or twenty minutes; then add to it 
half a gill of fourth-proof brandy for each quart of syrup; set it by to become cold, 
then bottle it for use. A tablespoonful for a child, or a wineglassful for an adult, is 
a dose. 

XII. Drying Fruits. 

Fruits are dried in four ways : 

1. By slicing thin, and exposing the natural fruit, spread on cloth or frames 
of silvered wire to the heat of the sun, taking them under cover in the event of 
rain, and at night. When dry they are placed loosely in paper bags and hung in a 
dry place. 

2. The fruit is cured after slicing by being kept in a wai*m oven until dry. 

3. They are cooked sufficiently to make them soft and then dried by fire heat. 

4. They are also dried in dry-houses, more or less simple, by continuous fire 
heat. This plan is altogether the most economical when a considerable quantity is 
dried each year. In all fruit neighborhoods these houses may be found where the 
fruit is dried either on shares or at a given price per pound. 

Pip fruits are pared, cored and sliced. Stone fruits may or may not have the 
stones removed. Peaches alwaj's should, and it is better to pare and slice them. 
Plums are generally halved, and cherries have the pits removed. 

To Dry Currants. — Berries and other fruits are sometimes dried with sugar 
and heat. The directions for currants will also serve for other fruits : Take equal 
weights of stemmed currants and sugar. Let them boil together for one minute, then 
carefully skim the currants from the liquor, and spread on dishes to dry. Dry them 
in the oven. The remaining syrup may be used for jelly. 

To Dry Plums. — Split ripe plums, take the stones from them, and lay them 
on plates or sieves to dry, in a warm oven or hot sun; take them in at sunset, and do 
not put them out again until the sun will be upon them; turn them that they may be 
done evenly; when perfectly dry, pack them in jars or boxes lined with paper, or 
keep them in jars ; hang them in an airy place 

XIII. Miscellaneous Recipes for Preserving. 

Preserved Plums Without the Skins. — Pour boiling water over large egg 
or other suitaljle plums; cover them until cold, then pull off the skins. Make a syrup 
of a pound of suo^ar and a teacupful of water for each pound of fruit, and pour it 
over- let them remain for a day or two, then drain off and boil again; skim it clear 
and pour it hot over the plums. Let them remain until the next day, then put them 
over the fire in the syrup ; boil them very gently until clear ; take them from the syrup 
with a skimmer into the pots or jars ; boil the syrup until rich and thick ; take off 
any scum which may arise, then let it cool and settle, and pour it over the plums. 



62 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Grapes Preserved, wittl Honey.— Take seven pounds of sound grapes on the 
stems, the branches as perfect as i^ossible, and pack them away snugly, without 
breaking, in a stone jar. Make a syrup of four pounds of honey and one ]3int of 
good vinegar, with cloves and cinnamon to suit, (about three ounces of each is the 
rule). Boil them well together for twenty minutes, and skim well, then turn boiling- 
hot water over the grapes and seal immediately. They will keep for years, if you 
wish. Apples, peaches and plums may be done in this way. 

Pigs of Tomatoes. — Pour boiling water over the tomatoes in order to remove 

the skins; then weigh them and place '^' "" ~ "^ "~" '"'"'' "^ much sugar as you 

have tomatoes, and let them stand twi and boil and skim 

it until no scum rises. Then pour it over the tomatoes, and let them stand two days, 
as before, then boil and skim again. After a third time they are fit to dry, if the 
weather is good ; if not, let them stand in the syrup until drying weather. Then 
place on large earthen plates or dishes, and put them in the sun to dry, which will 
take about a week, after which, pack them down in small wooden boxes, with fine 
white sugar between each layer. Tomatoes prepared in this manner will keep for 
years. 

Syrup of Lemons. — Clarify three pounds lump sugar; then pour mto this, 
while at weak candy height and boiling, the juice of eighteen lemons, and the peel of 
three, grated. Boil together four minutes, strain through lawn and bottle. When 
cold, cork tight for use. This syrup is then ready for lemonade, punch, ices, 
jellies, etc. 

XIV. Brandy Peaches and Other Brandied Fruits. 

All the stone fruits, and also strawberries, rasp))errios and blackbeiries are 
sometimes preserved in brandy. Choke cherries, and other wild cherries, and any of 
the small fruits, are also preserved, by filling a vessel, that may be sealed tight, with 
the fruit, and filhng up with brandy, or equal parts of strong proof spirits, and soft 
filtered water. The liquid is then used, properly diluted, as a warming medicine or 
stomachic. When preserved by heat and by the addition of brandy, the following 
recipe for peaches will apply to the preserving of all stone fruits with brandy as one 
of the preservative integers : 

Recipe for Brandying.— One pound of sugar to each pound of fruit ; boil 
the fruit until soft, make the syrup with as little water as possible. Take the 
peaches and lay separately on a dish, boil the syrup again until of the right consist- 
ency; put the peaches in the jar, then add one part brandy to two parts of syrup, 
stir and fill up the jar. 



CHAPTER VI 



Special Department on Cooking. 



SOUP. 



To make good soup, properly flavored and palatable, requiies much 
practice. The besi foundation for soup is lean uncooked meat. A quart 
of water to a pound of meat is the usual quantity. When soup is made 
from fresh meat, it should always be put to cook in cold water. Beef is 
more generally used as soup-meat ; to this may be added mutton and veal 
bones broken up; also bits of chicken, turkey, and ham make a well- 
flavored soup, much better than any one meat. 

Grease should always be skimmed from all soups, and slow boiling is 
very important, in order to extract the strength from the meat. When 
meat is boiled very fast over a hot fire it retains its juice and becomes 
tough and hard. A soup-pot should always be kept on hand for soups, 
into which bits of meat, bones from a rib-roast, gravies left from roast 
meats, and all fragments, may be thrown. Put on the fire and cook until 
done, strain, and put in an earthen vessel for use. If kept in a cold place, 
it will be good for several days ; remove all fat that may rise. Vegetables 
should not be cooked in stock, as they will cause it to sour. 

CONSOMME. 

Take about fifteen pounds of veal, and about the same quantity of knuckles 
of veal, together with two rabbits if you can get them, put the whole into 
a stock-pot which has been previously spread with butter and broth 
enough to nearly cover the meat. Let the meat cook until reduced to a 
light-colored glaze ; then fill it up with the remainder of the stock, and 
after it has boiled and been well skimmed, garnish it with carrots, turnips, 
leeks, onions, celery, a few peppercorns, a small piece of mace and cinna- 
mon. Let the broth simmer slowly six hours. Pass through a sieve, salt 
to taste, and put in a cool place for future use. 

[63] 



64 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

MIXED STOCK FOR SOUPS, ETC. 

Rub the bottom of a large stewpan well with butter, cover the bottom 
with two large onions sliced ; place over the sliced onions two slices of 
ham ; put the pan over a good fire when the contents are well browned ; 
pour in a pint of water, little at a time • the meat must then be added, and to 
every two pounds of meat and bones put one quart of water. As soon as 
it begins to boil skim and place on the stove, where it will only simmer for 
about six hours ; then add a bouquet of sweet herbs, ten or twelve pepper- 
corns, and half a dozen cloves to ever}' gallon of stock. Cook at least two 
more hours, then strain and put in a cool place. Next day take off all the 
fat very carefully. Keep in a very cool place. This is fine for common 
soups, sauces, etc. 

WHITE STOCK. 

Take five pounds of a sliin of veal, a large fowl, four tablespoonfuls of 
butter, two good-sized onions, four stalks of celery, a small piece of mace, 
and a stick of cinnamon, eight quarts of water, using salt and pepper. 
Place the butter in the bottom of the soup-pot, then the meat and fowl cut 
into small pieces. Cover the pan, and let it cook slowly thirt}'-five min- 
utes, stirring often ; the water must then be added, and when it boils, 
skim well and place where it will boil gently for six hours. You may 
then add vegetables and spice and boil about another hour. Strain and 
cool as quickly as possible ; next day take off every particle of fat, turn the 
jelly into a dish, and with a knife remove all the sediinent from the bot- 
tom. Put into a stone jar and put in a verj' cold place. With care it will 
keep a week in cold weather and two or three dajs if very warm. As 
stock keeps so much better without vegetables, it is better not to add them 
until ready to make soup. 

There are two kinds of stock, brown and white, from which almost any- 
kind of soup may be made, by adding vegetables and seasoning to taste. 
Vegetables should just cook long enough in soup to be well done, as too 
much cooking is injurious. 

TO MAKE SOUP FROM STOCK. 

Put on as much stock as required ; remove all sediment ; add water, 
vegetables and seasoning to suit the taste. Prepare the vegetables, cutting 



SOUP. 65 

tnem nne, Doil until well done, then strain through a sieve and serve at 
once. 

In making white soups nothing but white vegetables should be used. 
For thickening use pearl barley, macaroni, rice, etc. 

For flavoring soups, use bay leaves, thyme, celery, parsley, sweet mar- 
joram, mint, sage, onions, cloves, and mace. As to seasoning soup, no 
particular rule can be given, as the soup-maker must be a good taster, and 
exercise judgment. Catsups and sauces are a great addition to soups. 
Spicing should alwayi be used sparingly. 

SOUP COLORING. 

For making Red Soup. Use the juice and pulp of ripe tomatoes. 
For making Green Soup. Spinach leaves pounded, or green leaves of 
celer}^ or parsley, will produce the desired color. 

For making Brown Soup. Use scorched flour or caramel. 
For making Amber Soup. Use grated carrot. 

NOODLES. 

Work into two eggs a sufficient amount of flour to make a stiff dough, 
salt to season, then roll out into sheets as thin as possible ; let dr)^ before 
cutting. Then roll up as you would jelly cake and cut very fine ; noodles 
added ten minutes before serving the soup. 

CROUTONS. 

Remove the crusts from stale bread, cut into small squares, and brown 
in the oven or fr}^ in boiling fat, and put into pea soup. 

CARAMEL. 

Place in a saucepan over the fire two large tablespoonfuls of sugar, a 
pinch of salt. Stir constantly until it is of a very dark brown, then pour in 
two teaspoonfuls of water. Continue to stir, adding slowly two small tea- 
cups of water, being very careful to see that the sugar is all thoroughly dis- 
solved. This makes a very pretty coloring. 

Half of this quantity may be made. 



GG6 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

EGG BALLS. 

Mix the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with raw yolk of one egg, a little 
flour ; roll the size of a hazel nut. 

BROWNED FLOUR. 

Put a pint, or more, of flour in a skillet over a slow fire. Stir constant- 
ly, being careful that it does not scorch, use a wooden paddle, and when 
a dark brown, remove from the fire, put in a covered vessel, and use for 
sauces, soups, gravies, etc. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Mince cooked meat or fowl very fine, one onion, a few bread or cracker 
crumbs, pepper, salt, cloves, mace and marjoram. Bind together with 
one egg, make into small balls and fry in butter. 

FOR ROUX. 

Put on the fire a half pound of fresh butter and let it melt slowly. Skim 
it, and when it settles, stir into it (very slowly) half pound of flour, cook 
until of a light brown, stirring all the time. Put away in a jar for use. 

CURRY POWDER. 

Pulverize and mix well together the following : — Two ounces of tur- 
meric, one ounce of ginger, one ounce of black pepper, two ounces of 
coriander seed, half an ounce of cummin seed, a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne pepper and one quarter ounce of cinnamon. Keep in a wide- 
mouthed bottle closely corked. 

HERBS FOR WINTER. 

In preparing herbs for winter use they should be gathered when fresh. 
Mint, thyme, suiumer savory, etc., should be washed and well picked, then 
put in a cool oven and dried very slowly. Put the leaves and tops in a 
wide-mouthed bottle ; when needed rub and sift. Keep from the air, 
as exposure will cause them to lose strength. 



Soup. 67 

TO MIX MUSTARD. 

To half a cup of ground mustard add one tablespoonful of sugar, five of 
vinegar, pepper and salt to suit the taste ; little water or olive oil may be 
added. 

MIGNONETTE PEPPER. 

A preparation from either black or white peppercorns, when ground 
coarse, resenibles mignonette seed, and should be sifted in order to re- 
move the dust. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Work together (until smooth) three tablespoonfuls of mustard and one 
of sugar, then add one egg which has been beaten, one teacupful of good 
vinegar, putting in a small quantity at a time to prevent its being lumpy. 
Beat all together until ver}' sinooth ; place on the stove and cook only a 
few moments, stirring all the time; as soon as it becomes cool add one 
tablespoonful of olive oil, which must be worked in ver}' smooth. 

GLAZE. 

Take some strong meat soup or jelly (when fresh) , boil it down until 
thick and quite brown, but not burnt. Put the glaze into a jar for use. 
When needed set it in boiling water ; when the glaze softens sufficiently, 
brush over your meat with a glazing brush ; this gives it the necessary 
brown. Ham or tongue is very nice varnished over with this. Glaze 
adds inuch to the appearance of many dishes and should be kept on hand. 

PUREE SOUP. 

This soup Is a puree of carrots and easy to prepare. Prepare six fine 
carrots, a large onion, cut them in fine slices, put a lump of butter the 
size of an egg in a small pan, then add the minced vegetable. Shake this 
over the fire until the vegetables are colored well but not brown. Add 
three pints of water and season. AVhen the vegetables are cooked press 
them through a sieve, then return them to the same pan and add hot water 
or stock to giA^e the desired consistency. Cut a number of small squares 
of bread at least half an inch thick, melt a tablespoonful of butter in a 
frj'ing pan, put the pieces of bread in the butter when hot, and shake over 
the fire until brown. Pour the soup over the sruares of bread and serve. 
If a ver}' rich soup is desired use rich stock. 



68 TWENTIETH CENTURY I'OME COOK BOOK. 

ECONOMICAL SOUP. 

Take bits of beef or mutton left over, also bones of same broken. Put 
in a kettle with a few nice Irish potatoes ; to this add four pints of cold 
water, two small onions cut up fine, one dessertspoonful of rice. Boil the 
ingredients one and a half hours ; strain and add one and a half pints of 
milk when boiling, into which a lump of butter size of an egg and a table- 
spoonful of flour has been stirred. Season with salt, pepper and bits of 
celery finely chopped ; also small squares of bread or cracker fried brown in 
butter. 

RICE SOUP. 

To half a teacup of rice put one quart of water and boil slowly one hour. 
To this add half an onion, two stalks of celery and two or three cloves; 
boil another hour, adding three gills of cream, a dessertspoonful of butter 
rolled in a little flour, with pepper and salt. When it comes to a boil it 
is ready for the table. — Mrs. Robert Wayne. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. 
Boil the uncooked breast of a fowl and a cup of rice in chicken broth until 
itissoftenough to rub through a sieve. Thin the paste thus formed with 
boiling milk. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg to the consistency of 
cream. Excellent. — Mrs. E. A B. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart ripe tomatoes. 

One pint water. 

Boil twenty minutes ; add one teaspoonful baking soda and one quart of 
sweet milk, a piece of butter size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste. Thick- 
en with a little flour and strain before serving. Delicious. — Mrs. E. A. B. 

CREAM SOUP (GREEN PEAS). 

Pour off the water from a can of green peas, put the peas in a pot with 
enough water to cover them, season with salt, let them cook a few min- 
utes and mash through a fine sieve. 

Take a tablespoonful of butter and two of flour, melt them together and 
let cook until they look frothy and bubble ; then pour in one pint of sweet 
milk and one pint of water; season with Tabasco pepper and salt. Let it 
boil a minute and add the peas which have been put through the seive, and 
let all boil just a minute and sei-ve, — Ah-s. E. A. B. 



SOUP. 69 

CREAM SOUP (TOMATOES). 

Make a cream soup the same as the above. Take a small can of toma- 
toes, rub through a seeve, then put them on to cook with two blades of 
mace, a grate or two of nutmeg, salt and red pepper and a verj^ small pinch 
of soda. Let boil for trve or ten minutes, and while boiling hot pour in the 
creamsoup that has been prepared. Let come to a boil and then serve. 
Ver}- nice. 

ANOTHER TOMATO SOUP. 

Take a rich bone of beef and have it broken. Put into a vessel with 
about five quarts of cold water. Let it boil steadily for one and a quarter 
hours. Then put in two dozen tine ripe tomatoes. Boil until the soup 
is reduced to two quarts. Wash the tomatoes, season to taste with salt and 
pepper, remove the meat and bones, then serve. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Three dozen tender okra pods sliced ; add to them a few tomatoes and a 
shin of beef. To this add four quarts of water. Let it boil three hours 
and season highly. A tablespoonful of rice improves this soup. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Into a kettle put one good spoonful of butter ; stir while melting. Fry a 
light brown three small onions. Add three quarts of rich stock, three 
chopped carrots, two small chopped turnips, three gills of dried peas that 
have been soaked nine or ten hours. Add salt, pepper, little mace and 
celerj' seed. Boil for two hours. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Soak two quarts of black beans over night; in the morning put them on 
the stove to boil ; when they are becoming soft add pieces of corn beef large 
enouo-h to salt soup ; boil until the beans are quite soft, strain through a 
colander, pour back into the soup kettle, and if too thick, add warm water 
to make it the proper consistency ; season with pepper and ground cloves. 
Before sending to the table, add four or five eggs, boiled hard and chop- 
ped in small pieces. It is nice to add a sufficient quantit}^ of anj^ kind of 
wine, to give the soup a flavor of the wine. The soup is verj^ good with- 
out the wine. 

Two quarts of beans will make enough soup for any ordinarj^-sized 



70 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

family for two days. If wanted for an early dinner, better begin boiling 
the beans the day before the soup is wanted. — Mrs. Clarcjicc Shcpard. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak well one and a half pints of good beans for about ten hours. Place 
them over the fire with five quarts of water and one pound of salt pork. 
Boil slowly three or more hours and add a little pepper. Strain and 
serve with slices of lemon. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Boil half a peck of green peas in one and a half gallons of water till 
quite done. Then strain the peas from the liquor, returning liquor to the 
pot. Rub the peas through a sieve, chop an onion fine, fr}'ing in a little 
lard, not too brown ; add this with chopped thyme, parsley, pepper and 
salt. Then stir a small dessertspoonful of flour into boiling soup ; serve 
with cubes of toasted bread. 

PEA SOUP. 

For one-half peck of peas, if fresh, boil shells in two quarts of water one 
half hour. Strain off and put in half of the peas, boil one half hour; then 
put in the remainder. When tender take out one cup of the peas, and 
put the rest through a sieve or colander, then put back on the stove and 
add two ounces of butter with one tablespoonful of flour. Stir into it 
pepper and salt and one half pint of creain or rich milk. Serve with 

croutons or fried bread. Mrs. Atncy Fallon, Wayne, Pa. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Earl}' in the morning wash a beef shank in several waters. Break the 
bone and put it in a large kettle of cold water. Let it boil steadily until 
an hour before dinner. Skim off the impurities of the meat as soon as 
they begin to rise. Before adding vegetables strain the stock; then 
put in equal quantities of the following: Potatoes, cabbage, tomatoes, 
grated corn ; also one onion, three carrots, one large turnip, a little pars- 
ley, thj'me and small piece of garlic if liked, one ver}^ small pepper pod, 
three tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of black pepper. 
Boil an hour and pour in thickening of milk and flour and sers'e. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Make a good strong stock of veal or beef, having about three quarts of 
stock to one bunch of asparagus. Boil until tender, strain and return to 



- SOUP. 71 

the lire, adding another bunch of asparagus, chopped very fine, and boil 
twenty minutes. Mix a cup of milk with a tablespoonful of flour; add to 
the soup. Let it come to a boil and serve. Season to taste with pepper 
and salt. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Four dozen oysters. 

Half teaspoonful sa-lt. 

One teaspoonful black pepper. 

Piece butter size of a large egg. 

One pint fresh milk. 

One tablespoonful flour. 

Put in the liquor to boil ; when it comes to a boil add salt, pepper and 
butter, lastly the flour, after it has been made into a batter. Stir contin- 
ually. As soon as it begins to boil add yolk of an egg well beaten, then 
the milk. As soon as the mixture boils up well put in the oysters. Let 
them remain two minutes. Stir all the time or the milk will curdle. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Pour one quart of cold water over one quart of oysters if solid ; if not 
solid, one pint of water ; drain through a colander into a soup kettle, and 
when it boils, skim, add pepper and then the 03'sters ; season with butter 
and salt ; then add one quart of rich new milk, brought to boiUng point in 
a tin pail set in a pot of boiling water; let boil up and serve at once. Or, 
instead of adding milk, place it boiling hot in tureen, pour the soup over 
it, then serve. — Mrs. W. H. Smithy Jr., Parkersburg, West Va. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Put on two gallons of water and a slice or two of bacon, with a fat hen. 
Let it boil until very tender. Remove the fowl, mincing all the white 
meat and a small portion of the dark. Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a 
tablespoonful of butter, pepper, salt and celery seed to taste. Mix these 
ino-redients into the meat and return to the liquor, at which time it should 
have boiled down to about two quarts. Stir all together, and as soon as it 
comes to a boil add one pint of milk and a teaspoonful of flour made into 
a batter. When it comes to a boil remove from the fire, as the milk is 
apt to curdle if allowed to boil too long. This is a very rich soup. 



'72 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Prepare a calf's head, take out the brains. To this add one gallon of 
water. Boil until it comes to pieces, take out all the bones, return this to 
the vessel, adding one tablespoonful of butter, one small teacup of browned 
flour, one teacup of tomato catsup, one tablespoonful of allspice, one nut- 
meg grated. Season with salt and pepper to the taste. When soup is 
nearly ready for the table, fry and add the brains. A few minutes be- 
fore serving add one teacup of wine, one small teaspoonful of cloves and 
same of mace. When placed in tureen, slice lemon thin and lay on top 
of soup, or hard-boiled eggs are an addition. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Six eggs, break into flour to make stiff dough ; little salt. Roll out 
into sheets as thin as paper ; let dry before cutting. Roll up ; cut very 
fine ; noodles added ten minutes before serving the soup. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Make the stock in the usual manner, by boiling shanks of beef or 
bones of beef, mutton, turkey or chicken all day. Strain, and next 
morning skim the grease carefully off. Cut up whatever vegetables you 
wish to flavor your soup with — cabbage, carrots, onions, and celery; 
brown these slowly in some of the dripping taken from the stock. Boil 
the vegetables for three hours in the stock and strain again. Then add 
vermicelli. Flavor with Worcester Sauce, and boil about fifteen minutes. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Twenty-five large clams chopped fine ; stew one hour in their own liquor 
and two quarts of water ; strain and put over the fire ; as soon as it boils 
add one pint of milk, thicken with a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
mixed well with flour; beat three eggs light and pour into the tureen, then 

stir hot soup in very carefully. — Mrs. Shefhard. 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 

Cut four apples, three or four nice onions, two carrots, two turnips, and one 
head of choice celery into three quarts of liquor, in which one or two fowls 
have been boiled, allow it to come to a good boil and then place it where 
it will simmer for about one-half pour ; add four tablespoonfuls of currie 
powder and one of flour ; mix all well together and let it boil for three or 



SOUP. 



73 



four minutes, pass through a colander, and serve with small pieces of roast 
chicken and boiled rice in a separate dish, or small squares of toasted or 
fried bread. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

One pint of water, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful flour, a little pep- 
per, two lobsters. Boil water and milk together, add flour, then lobsters. 
Let it boil up once and put a bit of butter in. Serve ver}- hot. 

SCH\A/AMMICHEN SOUP. 

Make soup strong and rich and flavor with any kind of vegetables liked, 
then strain, and just before serving, beat one egg, and into this add cracker 
crumbs enough to stick well together. Form into balls lightly, and put 
into soup. Let boil a few minutes and serve. 

CELERY WHITE SOUP. 

Boil a small cup of rice in three pints of milk until it will pass through 
a sieve. Grate the white parts of two heads of celery on a coarse grater; 
add this to the rice-milk after it has been strained, put into it one quart of 
strong white stock, either of veal or chicken, let it boil until the celery is 
perfectly tender, season with salt, caj'cnne pepper and ser\'e. If cream is 
obtainable, substitute one pint of it for the same quantity of milk. It is a 
perfect success. — Miss Owen. 

HARE SOUP. 

Cut up a pair of hares mto neat, small pieces ; take all the nicest bits 
and fr}' them a light brown. Have a pot of stock, and into it put the infe- 
rior pieces of the hare, two onions, a carrot, a head of celery, some parsley 
and thyme, a blade of mace, a clove or two, salt and pepper. Let this all 
boil till the meat falls off the bones, then pass it through a sieve. Put the 
soup back into the pot, use some of it to make gravy over the bits of hare 
in the frj-ing pan, then turn the contents of the frying pan into the soup pot, 
let it simmer until the meat is tender, then slightly thicken the soup with 
a little browned flour. 

SWISS SOUP. 

Make a stock of lamb or chicken, season with butter, pepper and salt; 
add a little rice ; cook it until tender. Just before taking it up add a cup 
of cream. — Mrs. J. C. Cottrill. 



74 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

HALIFAX SOUP. 

Put a o-ood meat bone on at 6 o'clock and boil until ii, in about 
three quarts of water. Skim occasionally the impurities which arise. Then 
put in one half dozen tomatoes, three carrots, one onion and four Irish 
potatoes, all chopped fine. Season with salt and pepper to taste. When 
vegetables are done, strain the soup and replace on the lire. Allow it to 
boil up and then thicken with a little flour. Before sending to the table, 
drop in a few parsley leaves. — Mrs. R. M. S. 

STANLEY SOUP. 

Make a rich stock of lamb, and season well with pepper, salt and a lump 
of butter. To this add green peas, corn, and okra in equal quantities, also 
a little rice. Cook until vegetables seem tender, and then thicken with a 
little flour. Serve with sauce, and do not strain. This is a very delicate, 
nice soup. 

GENUINE TURTLE SOUP. 

For a turtle weighing thirty to thirty-five pounds, use five pounds of 
beef, five pounds of veal, and one pound of ham ; butter the bottom of the 
soup-pot; arrange the meat in the pot in layers, with four onions, one 
carrot, eighteen cloves, one teaspoonful of pepper, and one full pint of 
water ; put the pot upon a brisk fire, stirring frequently until the entire pot 
is covered with a brown glaze ; then fill the pot with the water in which the 
turtle was boiled ; if this does not fill the pot add more water ; then put the 
pot on a slow fire, and let it cook very slowly for two hours ; skim well, 
thenstrain off this liquor, adding one quart of water to the meat, boil it 
another hour, and then strain into the other liquor. 

TO MAKE THE SOUP. 

Put a half pound of butter into a large soup pot, with a bouquet of the 
following herbs : Five sprigs of savory, five of thyme, four of basil, five of 
marjoram, and four bay leaves ; place it for a few minutes over a moder- 
ate fire ; be careful that it does not change color ; then stir in very gradually 
one half of a pound of fiovir to form a roux, which keep stirring over the 
fire until it becomes tinged lightly ; remove it from the tire and stir now 
and then until nearly cold ; then add the stock, which should be at least 
six quarts ; place it again over the fire and stir it until boiling ; it must 
then simmer two hours. Pass it through a colander into a clean stewpan j 

60 



SOUP. 



75 



zidd the turtle meat (which has been cut into squares) ; place the pan on 
the fire, where it will simmer until the moat is very tender; then add the 
green fat, and salt to taste ; let it stew ten or fifteen minutes longer. When 
ready to ser\'e add a very small teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and two gills 
of Madeira wine to each tureenful. Serve lemon cut in slices, separate. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Take a cait's head, pluck, and feet with skin on ; put into a pot with 
about a pail of water; add two onions and skim well when boiling. Boil 
until the meat falls from the bone ; then strain and turn the soup back 
in the pot; add a full tablespoonful of cloves, salt pepper, mace, nutmeg, 
and a little red pepper. Cut up half the meat and add to the soup, just 
heating it through. Then set it away; next day add more spice and a 
little butter, with flour rubbed in ; one pint of port wine, lemon slices, eggs, 
and force meat balls. — J/iss Chaffee. 

FRENCH OX TAIL OR MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Yry some ham, onions, butter, and ox tail together. Add to this as 
much hot water as you will need, and boil for one hour. Then add toma- 
toes, spices tied up in a bag, skin of one lemon. Boil well ; mash a hard- 
boiled egg and place in the bottom of your tureen before pouring in the 
soup. Just before serving add one wine glass of sherr}^ and one lemon, 
sliced. — Mrs. John Durst. 

BOUILLON. 

Take two pounds of lean beef, two pounds of veal, and an old chicken. 
Cover it well with cold water. Place the soup kettle on the back of the 
stove where it will boil very slowly ; as it does so, the fibers of the meat will 
enlarge. If cooked too rapidly, the meat hardens so that the water can not 
penetrate it. Boil three hours or until the meat is tender. Remove every 
particle of scum as it rises. When thoroughly tender, remove from the 
fire and let it stand in a cool place all night. Carefully remove every par- 
ticle of fat from the stock ; strain and return to the fire to boil, adding the 
following vegetables : One head of celery, a sprig of parsley, one turnip, 
three carrots, two onions, half teaspoonful of pepper corns, four whole 
cloves, a few tomatoes, and a bunch of sweet herbs. The vegetables must 



76 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

be sliced very thin before adding. Boil about one hour, and just before 
straining a second time, add salt. The 3-olks of four eggs well beaten is 
sufficient for three quarts of bouillon. A few drops of cold water should be 
added to the egg, pouring upon it the boiling bouillon. Serve in cups. 

MACCARONI SOUP. 

Three ounces of maccaroni ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; salt 
to taste ; two quarts of clear stock. 

Throw the maccaroni into boiling water, with a pinch of salt, and sim- 
mer for half an hour ; when it is tender, drain and cut it into thin rings 
and drop into boihng stock. Stew gently for fifteen minutes and serve. 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

The day before the soup is wanted, take three ox tails, cut them in 
pieces, and put on to frj^ in butter, first taking off all the fat ; let them 
brown well, then set away till next day. Take off all the grease that may 
be about them, and put to boil in about three quarts of water; some salt, 
pepper and allspice to taste; from two to four onions, one carrot, one 
turnip and one head of celerj^ Boil four or five hours ; lift out the meat ; 
strain ; choose some of the best of the meat, return it to the soup, and 
serve. 

PEPPER POT. 

Take fish flesh, and chicken or other fowl, as nearly equal parts as possi- 
ble. Add to this one pound of beef or mutton cut in ver}- small pieces. 
Put into a soup pot ; cover with sufficient quantity of water ; add a red 
pepper, boiling the whole until tender. Skim the liquid, and if not suffi- 
cient in quantity, add boiling water. Then add one large onion, sliced; 
salt to taste. Sliced potatoes and small dumplings made of tiour and 
butter. Boil until the ingredients are all tender. Serve hot. 



CREOLE GUMBO. 

Into a saucepan put a lump of butter, or lard, and some small pieces 
of bacon, chopped fine. After the bacon is browned, slice in okra, ver}' 
fine ; then stir constantly, adding hot water by degrees. To this add crab 



SOUP, 77 

and shrimp, cut veiy fine, and a small piece of ham if desized. If you have 
not crab or shrimp, use chicken and veal or beef. Served with boiled rice. 

— Madame Laura, 

FRENCH GUMBO. 

Fry one nice chicken. While this is frying slice three quarts of okra 
with a little green pepper (or red, if no green is to be had). Salt and 
flour as you would the chicken. When chicken is brown, take out and 
throw okra into the same lard; fry until brown. Have ready one gallon 
of boiling water ; pour over okra. Let it boil one-half hour, then put in 
chicken, and set back to simmer until it is cooked down enough for use. 
Serve with boiled rice in the center of each plate (one spoonful). 

— Mrs. John Durst. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Cut up in small pieces four squirrels and one chicken, cook until the 
flesh falls from the bones. To each gallon of soup add a handful of green 
or dried sassafras buds, put in a bag. One quart of okra, one large onion 
cut fine, half dozen medium-sized Irish potatoes cut in cubes, one carrot 
grated, and a small quantity of cabbage. Season with pepper and salt. 
When the soup is done take out the bag, and, after removing the buds, 
squeeze the bag into the soup. Add red pepper and thicken with browned 
flour. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Prepare two good-sized chickens as for a fricassee ; flour the chickens 
and fry in butter until a light brown. Put the chickens in a soup pot, and 
pour over them three quarts of hot water, allowing the whole to simmer 
slowly for two hours. Braid a little flour and butter together for thicken- 
ing • and salt to suit the taste. After straining three pints of oysters, add 
the iuice to the soup ; also a few slices of cold ham. Let the contents boil 
gently for ten or twelve minutes. Just before removing the soup from the 
fire stir into it two spoonfuls of powdered sassafras leaves. Leave it on 
the fire to simmer a few minutes, then add the oysters. Season with 
pepper, serve in deep dish and garnish with rice. 



CHAPTER VII. 

FISH, OYSTERS, KTC. 

SELECTING, PREPARING, AND COOKING. 



All fish lose their flavor in a short time after being taken from the water ; 
hence it is necessary to purchase those recently caught. Fish, when fresh 
caught, are hard when pressed by the finger, the eyes full and the gills red. 
If the flesh is flabby and the eyes sunken, the fish are stale. They should 
be carefully cleaned, washed, and salted. In preparing they are often 
spoiled by improper judgment. Fish should remain only a short time in 
water, as it causes them to become soft and flabby. If the fish be frozen, 
the frost should always be taken out in cold water, or it will be soft and 
fall to pieces. 

The earthy taste often found in fresh water fish may be extracted by 
soaking in salt and water. 

All fish are better if allowed to take salt an hour or so before cooking. 

Most kinds of salt fish should be soaked in cold water for twenty-four 
hours. The fleshy side turned down in the water. 

Fish should be well cleaned preparatory to cooking ; they may be readily 
scaled by plunging them for an instant in hot water, then washing and 
scraping away all coagulated blood. 

It injures fish to wash them too much, as it destroys their flavor. 

Nearly all kinds of fish are better in cold weather. Mackerel in July, 
August, September, and October. 

Shad are good from April to June. 

For invalids, white fish are considered the best. 

Fish, unless good, are very inferior eating. Cooks should consider what 
fish they have and cook accordingly. Some varieties when boiled or 
baked are fine, but tasteless if fried or broiled: 

Large fish are generally baked or boiled. Small ones, fried or broiled. 

Trout should always be boiled or baked. 

Red Snapper always boiled. 

White fish, best when broiled. 

Fresh mackerel should always be broiled. 

[78] 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 79" 

Fish should always be boiled very gently. Sew them in a cloth and drop 
in cold water with a sufficient quantity of salt. Boil about thirty minutes. 

For broiling fish, the gridiron must be rubbed with a piece of fat, to pre- 
vent its sticking. Lay the skin side down first. Fish should never be 
turned with a knife and fork, but hold a tin-sheet upon it with one hand 
and turn over the gridiron with the other. Fish will break if not turned 
in this way. 

All fish should be eaten immediately after being cooked. 

FISH A LA CREME. 

Boil a fish, pick out all the bones, and mince well. Mix a pint of cream, 

one tablespoonful of flour, one onion chopped fine, salt, and a half pound 

of butter ; set it on the fire and stir until it thickens. Put in a deep dish 

alternately fish, cracker crumbs, and cream. Bake in a moderate oven 

until brown. 

BAKED FISH. 

Take any kind of nice fish large enough to bake ; when clean, dry with 
a cloth and fill with a dressing made of four or five hard-boiled eggs 
chopped fine, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, a little parsley and onions, if 
liked; tie it up well with cords to keep dressing in, put in a baking pan 
with a little water, and bake. Be sure to keep quite moist while cooking 
by basting often ; when well cooked put on a platter, clip tlie strings, and 
pull them off, and cover fish with a thick sauce made of four or five hard 
boiled eggs, mashed, one half cup of vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, pepper, salt, and a few white mustard seed ; 
let this cook till stiff, pour over fish on platter, over this arrange the chopped 
whites of eggs, and garnish around with curled parsley. 

—Mrs. y. P. Hird. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Prepare a stuffiing of fine bread crumbs, a little salt pork chopped very 
fine ; season highly with sage, parsley, pepper, and salt. Fill the fish with 
the stuffiino-, sew it up, sprinkle the outside with salt, pepper, and pieces of 
butter • dredge with fiour, and bake one hour. Baste quite often. Serve 
with HoUandaise sauce. 

WHITE FISH A LA POINT. 

After cleaning the fish lay it open, remoye the back bone, placing it in a 
buttered baking pan, skin next to the pan. Season freely with pepper, salt, 



80 



TWENTIETH CEXTURV HOME COOK BOOK. 



little lemon juice, and butter. Put two cups of water in the pan around 
the sides of fish. Bake in a hot oven ; a four pound fish should cook fifteen 
minutes. Large white fish are superior to small ones. 

— H. AI. Kinsley^ Chicago. 

TO BAKE SHAD. 

Split the shad down the back, wash, and salt well, wipe well with a 
cloth, rub inside and out with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Prepare 
a dressing of bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, thyme, celery seed, 
some chopped onions, and a spoonful of butter. Tie the fish well in order 
to keep in the stuffing, place in a baking pan with water enough to bake 
it, and a large spoonful of butter. Dust a little flour over the fish. Baste 
well while cooking Cook slowly until well done. 

TO FRY SHAD 

Cut up and sprinkle well with pepper and salt, roll in flour and fry in 
hot lard. 

TO COOK SHAD ROE. 

Drop into boiling water for a few minutes, take out, drain, season them 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and fry a nice brown. 

TO BROIL SHAD. 

Split and wash the shad, then dry it on a cloth. Season with salt and 
pepper. Grease your gridiron well ; when hot, lay the shad upon it, the skin 
side down, in order that it may retain the juice ; when done, butter it and 
send to the table. 

BOILED BASS. 

Clean the fish well, put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it 
add salt, place the saucepan over the fire ; after boiling a few minutes 
see if the fins are loose and can be removed readily ; if so, take it from the 
pan, place on a platter, surrounding the fish with hard-boiled eggs. Serve 
with sauce. 

BOILED BLUE FISH. 

This may be prepared the same as bass. 

BAKED BLUE FISH. 

Prepared in the same manner as baked shad. 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 81 

BAKED SHAD STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. 

Select a large shad. Clean, dry, and rub thoroughly with salt, inside and 
out. Make a dressing of grated bread crumbs and oysters, season it well 
with pepper and salt and plenty of butter. Put the fish in a baking pan 
with enough water to keep it from burning ; bake about one hour basting 
often with butter and the essence from the fish. When brown place the 
fish on a platter where it will keep hot ; cover the fish over while you pre- 
pare the gravy. 

Add a spoonful of catsup and the juice of half a lemon to the gravy. Gar- 
nish the fish with water cresses or curled parsley. The sauce should be 
served in a sauce boat. 

BAKED GURNET. 

Clean and dry the gurnet ; make a stuffing of bread crumbs, a little suet, 
minced parsley, sweet herbs, pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egg; stuff 
the fish, put into a baking dish with pieces of dripping and a little water; 
bake in a quick oven for about an hour, basting constantly. Serve with 
shrimp sauce. 

RED MULLET, BAKED. 

Clean the fish, take out the gills, but leave the inside ; fold in oiled paper, 
and bake them gently ; when done take the liquor that flows from the fish, 
add a thickening of butter and flour ; add half a teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, one glass of sherry, cayenne and salt to taste ; let boil two minutes ; 
serve the sauce in a tureen, and the fish on a dish, after having removed 
the paper. 

MULLETS DRESSED WITH FINE HERBS. 

Trim and place the mullets on a saucepan, buttered, season with pepper 
and salt, strew over them chopped mushrooms, shallot and parsley, moist- 
en with two glasses of sherry, and a large spoonful of brown sauce. Mix 
with the herb sauce a little essence of anchovy and the juice of half a 
lemon • one spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Pour over the 
mullets and send to the table. 

BAKED BLACK FISH. 

Rub a handful of salt over the surface to remove the slime peculiar to the 
fish. For the stuffing two ounces of beef drippings, one ounce salt pork, two 



82 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley ; fry brown in a saucepan ; then add 
one teaspoonful of chopped capers, half saltspoonful of white pepper, half 
teaspoonful salt, one gill of broth ; stir until boiling hot, place inside of the 
fish, cut several slices of pork in thin pieces, and lay on either side of the 
fish, tie it well with a twine, sprinkle with salt and pepper, then serve with 
a sauce made of stock seasoned with one tablespoonful each of Walnut and 
Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of chopped capers, and one table- 
spoonful of parsley. 

BAKED TROUT. 

Clean, wash, and wipe the fish, which should be large ; prepare a stuffing 
of fine bread crumbs, salt, pepper and herbs, add with this a beaten egg. 
Stuff the fish and sew it up ; place in a baking pan with about two gills of 
water, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Baste with water and butter 
until don and well browned. Place the fish on a hot dish ; then add to 
the gravy a tablespoonful of browned flour ; wet with cold water a spoonful 
of catsup, little lemon juice and a glass of wine. Pour the gravy around 
the dish. 

STUFFED AND BAKED FISH. 

Clean and wipe the fish dry, rub salt inside, and pepper; then salt and 
flour the outside well ; take grated bread crumbs and add a teaspoonful of 
pepper and salt to one beaten egg, also a litde sage and onion ; stuff the 
fish and bake until thoroughly done. Serve with cream or tomato sauce. 

BAKED SHEEPSHEAD. 

Prepare the fish for cooking, gash the sides in several places, use salt and 
pepper freely. Mix with one pint of stale bread crumbs some finely chopped 
meat, thyme, some salt, cayenne pepper, the yolk of two or three eggs ; mix 
the ingredients well together, then stuff the gashes and inside. Sprinkle 
well with flour and black pepper ; place in a pan the proper size with one 
quart of water ; bake fully two hours. Serve with any kind of sauce 
desired 

TO BAKE STURGEON. 

The skin must be well washed. Place in a pan and bake for one hour. 
Place it on a dish, make several incisions with a sharp knife, then make a 
stuffing of bread crumbs, meat, onions, salt, pepper, parsley and thyme, 



' ' FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 88 

all mixed well together. Stuff the holes well with these ingredients and 
place the remainder around the fish ; return to the oven and bake 

BAKED ROCK. 

Boil until well done. Then remove the bones. Season with butter, 
pepper, salt and cream. Sprinkle stale bread crumbs over the top. Bake 
in a flat dish. 

FRESH COD, BAKED. 

Get the fish vender to dress it clean, but not cut it entirely open. Pre- 
pare a rich forcemeat made of bread crumbs, fat pork, parsley, sweet mar- 
joram, salt and pepper; then fill the fish with this preparation, and con- 
fine the openings with small skewers ; put four or five cuts on each side of 
the fish ; dredge well with flour and salt ; put in a dripping pan, with 
water enough to cover the bottom ; bake until thoroughly done ; baste with 
butter and tomato catsup. Stir little flour and butter into the liquor for 
gravy, and sen-e hot. 

TURBOT A LA CREME. 

Procure a nice fresh fish, boil done, and pick out the bones ; season with 
pepper, and salt ; to one quart of milk, add a good teacup of flour ; put 
with this a sprig of thyme, small bunch of parsley, four or five small 
onions, salt, a small quantity of white pepper. Place this on the fire ; 
make into a paste ; then remove, and add half pound of butter and yolks 
of two eggs. Mix well and pass through a sieve ; pour some of this sauce 
into a baking dish, then a layer of the fish alternating until it is all used. 
Pour some of the sauce on the top, and lastly put a layer of grated cheese 
and bread crumbs. 

Bake thirty-five or forty minutes. 

TO STEW FISH. 

Season with salt and pepper. To a fish weighing four pounds, add very 
near a pint of water. When about half done, add half a pound of butter, 
two large spoonfuls of flour, salt, pepper, and a little thyme, and parsley. 

Serve with the gravy several hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 

BOILED FISH. 

Wash the fish, then wrap in a cloth and put into a pan of hot water, 
witli a tablespoonful of salt ; there should be a slow movement of the water 



84 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

for about thirty-five minutes, at the expiration of which the fish will gen- 
erally cook sufficiently. When done, remove the cloth, and serve with 
drawn butter. 

BOILED FISH WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

A pike is good for boiling. Wrap the fish in a cloth ; place over the 
fire and boil slowly until done. The length of time for cooking will de- 
pend much upon the size of fish. 

For Sauce — Beat half a teacup of butter to a creain, add the yolks of two 
eggs, juice of half a lemon, salt, and a very little cayenne pepper, put in a 
saucepan of boiling water, beat with an egg-beater, until it begins to 
thicken ; then add a half cup of boiling water, beating continuall}/. When 
to the consistency of stiff custard, it is clone. It will not take more than 
five to seven minutes to cook, if the water boils hard. 

FRESH MACKEREL, BOILED, 

Clean a large mackerel, tie it in a cloth, and cook about twenty minutes. 
Serve with nasturtiuin sauce. 

TO COOK SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak well over night in water, next morning drain well and drop in 
boiling water for three minutes ; take it up veiy carefully, place it on a dish 
and pour over the fish melted butter. 

The mackerel may be prepared in the same manner, and placed on a 
gridiron, broiled nicely, put on a dish and pour melted butter over it. 

BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL. 

Remove the backbone, first opening the fish on the back ; dry the fish well 
with a towel after washing it ; salt the fish and put it on a gridiron over a 
clear fire, turning the flesh side down, until it is brown ; then turn it 
over. This mackerel is very fine with most any of the fish sauces. It should 
be served while hot. 

FRESH MACKEREL, BROILED, 

Split through the back, dredge with salt and pepper, grease the broiling- 
iron, and broil quickly, lay the flesh side to the fire first ; when browned, 
turn without breaking it, and brown the other side; pour melted butter 
over it, and serve hot. 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 85 

FRESH MACKEREL, FRIED. 

Score and salt the fish, roll in Indian meal, and hy in hot fat. If you 
put the fish into fat that is not very hot, it will fall in pieces before it 
crisps. 

Haddock and scrode may be cooked in the same manner. 

TO FRY PERCH. 

Skin, salt, and roll in Indian meal (leaving the head on) ; fiy in hot 
pork fat until a golden color. 

TO FRY SILVER FISH. 

This is a verj' dehcate fish, and found principally in the south. Dress 
the fish nicely, roll the body in beaten egg and then in cracker crumbs, 
and fry in butter. 

TO FRY PIKE AND PICKEREL. 

These fish should be fried in the same manner as mackerel. They are 
verj' nice served with 03-ster sauce or drawn butter. Garnish with sliced 
lemon and curled parsley. 

TO FRY SMELTS. 

Clean nicely, handle as little as possible ; dip in milk, then in cracker 
dust, then in beaten egg, then in dust again ; continue this until well 
coated ; fry some salt pork in lard, remove the slices of pork, and put in 
the smelts and fiy a light brown. Serve upon a napkin, and garnish with 
fried parsley. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Take a trout or any large fish, skin it and cut the meat in nice thin 
slices ; take some slices of salt pork and fry it quite brown ; slice two 
medium-sized onions and fry with the pork ; slice some potatoes — then put 
in a layer of potatoes, fish, onions, cracker dust. Continue until ingredi- 
ents are all used ; add to it red and black pepper, place bits of butter on 
the top, then pour on milk enough to cover it, and cook until well done. 

RED SNAPPER WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

This is a delicious fish when well prepared. Scale the fish, rub well 
with pepper, inside and out. Let the the fish be wrapped in a cloth and 



86 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

kept on ice several hours. Cut up two onions, a carrot, and a celery root ; 
let this boil in a quart of water ; then put in the fish, whole or in pieces ; 
the water should almost cover the fish ; add a piece of butter, size of an 
eggj and three large tomatoes. (Three spoonfuls of canned tomatoes may 
be substituted.) Boil the fish until the fins will fall out easily if taken hold 
of — turn frequently wliile cooking. Put the fish upon a platter when done, 
handling it very carefully. Strain the sauce • let it boil. Mix with a cup of 
fresh cream one teaspoonful of flour. Garnish the fish with chopped pars- 
ley, pour the sauce over the fish, mixing it well with the parsley. 

The yolks of eggs may be used instead of cream for the sauce. 

This fish is very nice fried. 

SOLES LA GRATIN. 

Spread some fresh butter on a dish, and place the soles, head and tail, 
on it ; season with pepper and salt ; sprinkle little chopped parsley over them, 
and inoisten well with white wine ; half an hour before dinner put them in 
the oven to bake ; when they have been in about twenty minutes take them 
out, and, after saucing them over with brown sauce, shake some raspings 
of bread crumbs over the whole, and put the soles back in the oven for a 
few minutes ; just before sending to table pass the red-hot salamander over 
them and serve. 

SOLES A LA COLBERT. 

Clean and trim the soles ; wash and wipe them dry with a clean cloth ; 
then flour them over and iry them, after which cut them open at the back, 
and carefully take out the back bone ; fill the inside with some cold Maitre 
d' Hotel butter, turn the soles on their back in a dish, pour round them an 
essence of fish or of anchovies and serve quite hot. 

FRIED SOLES, WITH SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Clean the soles thoroughly, pull off the brown skin, cut off the head, and 
with a pair of large scissors trim away the fins close up to the fillets ; then 
wash and wipe the soles dry and roll in little flour ; dip them first into 
beaten egg, and then into fine bread crumbs ; place the fish on a dish in a 
cool place until within twenty minutes of dinner time ; then fry them in 
hot fat; when done, drain them on a napkin, and dish them up with 
some fried parsley. Serve with a sauce boat full of shrimp or anchovy 
sauce . 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 87 

FRIED HALIBUT. 

Select choice slices, wash and dry nicely, then remove the skin. Dip 
the slices of the fish in beaten egg, then in fine cracker dust (first salt and 
pepper well) , have ready a pan half full of lard boiling hot, drop in the 
lard, and fry a pretty brown on both sides. Drain and serve hot. 

BROILED HALIBUT. 

_ Broil just as you would other fish, upon a gridiron ; season with pepper 
and salt. Put on a hot dish and butter freely, serving in a covered dish. 

SALMON IN A MOULD. 

One can of salmon, four eggs beaten light, four tablespoonfuls melted 
butter (not hot) , half cup of fine bread crumbs ; season with salt, pepper, 
and minced parsley ; chop the fish fine, rub the butter in till smooth ; beat 
the crumbs with the eggs, and season before working together. Put in a 
buttered bowl and steam one hour — Mrs. Ferris. 

FRESH SALMON, BOILED. 

Take several pounds of salmon, wash carefully, rub the inside with salt, 
tie it up in a cloth, and boil forty minutes ver}' gently ; when about half 
done turn it over. 

Serve with egg-sauce. 

FRESH SALMON, FRIED. 

Cut the slices very near an inch thick, dredge with flour ; or dip in egg, 
then in crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Cut the slices an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, butter a sheet 
of white paper, lay each slice on a separate piece ; enclose them in it with 
their ends twisted. Broil over a bright fire, and serve with anchovy or 

caper sauce. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

After removing all the bones from the fish (which has been previously 
soaked and boiled to pieces), pick into shreds, and then let it drain. To 



88 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

one pound of fish, allow one dozen Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed very 
fine ; season with pepper, salt, and a teacup of sweet milk ; break one 
e^g: : then mix all together, make into rolls and bake a light brown. 

FISH BALLS. 

One cup chopped codfish, whites of two eggs, the yolks of same ; beat 
and mix well with two cups of mashed potatoes, and a spoonful of butter; 
work well and form into balls ; iry in hot fat. 

LOBSTERS. 

Some lobsters require longer boiling than others ; this depends upon 
their size. Pick the meat from the shell, cut into pieces of equal size, put 
them into the spider with the liquor which comes out of the shell, two 
tablespoonfuls of celery vinegar, a little cayenne pepper, a pinch of sugar, 
and two tablespoonfuls of butter ; dredge with flour, cover, and let it stew 
ten minutes ; stir it, when cooked, and serve. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Two lobsters, medium size ; one cup of bread crumbs, one small onion 
chopped fine, a pint of butter, little mace, add little cayenne pepper and 
salt, form into cutlets, spread out, let cool and form them in shape of 
chops, dip in egg, and roll in bread crumbs, and fr}' in boiling fat. 

CRABS. 

Crabs may be prepared as lobsters. Take the meat from the shell, put 
into a pan, with butter, pepper, salt, and pinch of mace, and very small 
quantit}7 of water; dredge with flour and cook slowly a few minutes. 
Serv'e hot. Break off the small claws, and lay in rows around the outer 



edge of the dish. 



FRIED CRABS. 



Dip soft shell crabs in beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs and fry in salt 
pork gravy. 

CLAMS. 

Boil the long clams, and the small round clams (with their shells on) 
in water enough to prevent their burning ; they will boil in about five 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 



!^9 



minutes ; then turn into a colander ; save the Hquor ; pour as much of the 
clear liquor in a stewpan as needed ; put the clams from the shells into 
the stewpan with the clear liquor, adding little pepper ; place on the fire, 
and as soon as boiling hot, add butter and flour braided together ; let it 
come to a boil, and serve on sippets of toast. 

EELS, PLAIN BROILED. 

In order to kill eels pierce the spinal marrow, near the back part of the 
skull, with a sharp instrument. Skin, and remove the head and tail ; cut 
into pieces about three inches long ; season with pepper and salt, lemon 
juice and two spoonfuls of oil ; few minutes before dinner, broil them of a 
light color, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve with 
tomato or Tartare sauce, in a sauce boat separately. 

MATELOTE OF EELS. 

Cut the eels in three or four inch lengths, or truss them into an oval or 
round shape, place in a stewpan with sliced carrot, onion, parsley, mush- 
rooms, thyme, baj' leaf, mace, two or three cloves, etc., season with claret 
wine and set the eels on the fire to s.ew. When done drain, trim, and 
glaze with some lobster coral in the glaze ; pile the eels in a pyramidal 
group on a dish, with some good brown sauce made with the liquor in 
which the eels have been stewed ; garnish round with alternate groups of 
button mushroons and crawfish tails and send to table 

EELS A LA TARTARE. 

Cut the eels in three-inch lengths or truss them whole, in a circular 
form ; put into a stewpan with sliced carrot, onion, parsley, bay leaf and 
thyme, a few pepper corns and salt; moisten with a gill of vinegar and 
little water; put on the fire to boil, and when done, set aside to cool in 
their Hquor; then drain, trim, roll in egg and bread crumbs ; fry a pretty 
color dish with fried parsley, and send to table with some Tartare sauce 

in a sauce boat. 

FROGS. 

The green frog is the only kind used for the table. Peel off the skin 
from the hind-quarters, sprinkle with salt and pepper, grease the gridiron 



90 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

well with lard, place the hind-quarters on the irons over a good fire, and 
broil gently to a nice brown ; pour butter over them, and serve hot. 

TERRAPIN. 

Cut up the head and put on in a pot to boil with the shell on ; when 
sufficiently done, remove the under shell, and pick to pieces. The top 
shell should be well cleaned ; add some crackers, butter, onion, parsley, 
black pepper, allspice, and wine. 

Put in the shell, and bake it. 

TURTLE OR TERRAPIN STEW. 

Parboil the meat, mince it, and season very highly with cayenne pep- 
per, black pepper, salt, spices, lemon, hard-boiled eggs and champagne. 
Stew until thoroughly done. Very fine. 

STEWED TERRAPIN, WITH CREAM. 

Mix together in a saucepan, one small teacup of butter and one table- 
spoon of flour; put it on the fire and stir until it is well mixed and hot. 
Stir into this two teacupfuls of cream, one-fourth teaspoonful white pep- 
per, half nutmeg grated, salt to taste, also a small quantity of cayenne. 
Then put in about a pint of the meat ; stir until it is very hot. Then 
place the pan where it will keep the stew hot, but should not boil ; stir 
into it the yolks of five eggs, well beaten ; stir well, and pour the stew 
into a tureen at once (as the terrapin should not boil after adding the eggs) 
over a gill of good Madeira and a spoonful of lemon juice. Serve while 
hot. Season with salt and pepper. 

OYSTERS. 

Oysters are good in any month having an R in its name. The largest 
oysters should be used for frj'ing and boiling; the next larger size for raw 
and soup, the smallest for croquettes, scallops, etc. It is a very important 
matter to examine very carefully each 03'ster before cooking and see that 
no bits of shell adhere to them. 

Many persons prefer olive oil in the place of butter with oysters, but it 
only requires half the quantity that you would of butter. 

61 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 91 

ROAST OYSTERS IN THE SHELL. 

Select large oysters ; wash and wipe them ; place with the upper shell 
clown in order to catch the juice over the hot coals. When they open their 
sliells, remove the shallow one; save the juice in the other; place both 
oysters and shells on a hot dish — send while hot to the table, allowing each 
person to season with butter and pepper to suit the taste. 

OYSTERS STEWED. 

Let the liquor first come to a boil, skim it, and add about the same 
quantity of milk. Let these boil together a very short time, then put in 
the oysters and cook a few minutes only ; add pepper, butter, salt ; put a 
little finely rolled crackers in the dish, and pour the soup over it. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Put the liquor in a stewpan, when it comes to a boil, skim well ; then 
pour in two quarts of fresh milk; when it boils add three scant pints of 
oysters, after looking over carefully and removing all the shell. When 
the oysters begin to curl remove from the fire, and add salt to suit taste. 
■Use butter generously, and serve hot. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Put the juice into a saucepan and let it simmer, skimming it carefully ; 
then rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and one large spoonful of flour 
well together, and stir into the juice. Cut in small pieces quarter of a 
pound of butter, half a teaspoonful of whole allspice, a little salt, a little 
cayenne, and the juice of a fresh lemon ; let all simmer ten minutes, and 
just before dishing add the oysters This is for two quarts of oysters. 

VIRGINIA OYSTER STEW. 

Strain the liquor from one quart of oysters and put it over to boil ; take 
the 5^olk of four hard-boiled eggs and very little mustard ; mix into a paste 
with one large tablespoonful of salad oil ; then add a cup of the boiling 
liquor ; stir well and keep warm. Add the oysters to the remaining liquor 
and cook until the edges begin to curl. Pour part of the liquor from the 



92 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

oysters over some nicely prepared toast, leaving the remainder with the 
oysters. Add to the oysters the egg salad; season with salt and pepper to 
taste. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Pick large select oysters ; remove all the pieces of shell ; drain in a col- 
ander. Roll the crackers fine ; season with white pepper and salt ; dip the 
oysters well in rolled cracker; lay them on platters. Have your griddle 
hot, and fry a golden color in boiling lard and butter mixed. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters, and cover well with very fine cracker crumbs ; season 
with salt and pepper. Let the oysters stand half an hour, dip, and roll 
again in the meal ; fry brown in plenty of lard and butter. 

Do not let them stand, but serve hot. 

TO FRY OYSTERS, 

Wash tnem and dry on a napkin ; dip in beaten egg, and then in the 
cracker crumbs ; repeat this once. Add pepper and salt to taste, and fry 
in butter and laid. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain select oysters in a colander. Dip each oyster into melted butter, 
to prevent sticking, and then place upon a wire gridiron. Broil very 
carefully over a good fire. When well browned on both sides, season with 
salt, pepper, and a generous quantity of butter, and lay on hot buttered 
toast, just a little moistened with hot water. These are very nice served on 
broiled beefsteak ; not good unless served very hot. 

BROILED OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

Procure large oysters; open and drop in boiling water a few moments, 
then put each oyster in a half shell, with the juice, which has been retained. 
Put on a gridiron over a hot fire ; season with butter, pepper and salt 
Serve on the half shell. 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 93 

OYSTERS ON ICE. 

Take a large square of ice ; hollow it out in the middle sufficiently to 
form a bowl large enough to contain the number of oysters required. Put 
the oysters on the ice, place on a flat dish and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Choose the finest and largest oysters, being careful to see that no par- 
ticles of shell remain among the oysters. Dry with a clean linen cloth ; 
sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and roll in finely-sifted cracker. Put 
on a gridiron over a bright quick fire, and as soon as they plump, plunge 
each one into a bowl of melted butter ; place on a hot dish and garnish 
with curled parsley. 

ROASTED OYSTERS. 

Take oysters in the shell ; wash the shells nicely and place them on a 
bed of hot coals ; as soon as they begin to open they are sufficiently done. 
Remove the upper shell, and serve the oysters in the lower shell ; pour a 
little melted butter over each one and serve. 

OYSTERS ROASTED. 

Select large oysters in the shell, and put them with the rounded side 
down upon a gridiron over a sharp fire. They will roast in a few minutes. 
Serve in the shell, w^ith coffee, bread, butter, and pickled cauliflower. 

OYSTERS SAUTE. 

Take as many oysters as you desire using ; chop fine ; to each dozen add 
one tablespoonful of butter, two of fine cracker dust, salt and pepper to 
taste • let them be well drained ; season and roll in the dust. Have the 
butter very hot, filling the bottom of the frying pan; fry the oysters a 
pretty brown, but do not let them burn. Serve on hot toast. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Choose the best oysters ; place in a vegetable dish ; season well with 
salt pepper and butter. Steam over boiling water, where they should re- 
main until they begin to curl. 



94 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

OYSTERS A LA CREME. 

Wash the oysters from the Hquor ; place them in a saucepan ; season 
with salt, pepper, very little butter; when the edges of the oysters are 
curled, dust with little flour. Have ready some hot cream (not boiled), 
about one pint of thick cream is sufficient for quart of oysters. When 
oysters are done, add to them the cream, and pour over slices of toasted 
bread. Serve at once, and very hot. 

BROILED OYSTERS A LA CREME. 

One pint of fine oysters, one small tablespoon of butter, one egg, finely- 
powdered cracker, very little flour ; beat the egg ; season the 03'ster with 
pepper and salt. When the oysters have been well drained dip each one 
in the egg, and roll in crumbs and broil over a brisk fire ; scald the milk ; 
mix a little cold water with the flour, having it smooth, and add it to the 
milk. As soon as the milk comes to a boil, pour it over the oysters and 
serve very hot. 

DELMONICO'S RECEIPT FOR OYSTER STEW. 

Take one quart of liquid oysters ; put the liquor (a teacupful for three) 
in a stewpan ; add half as much more water, salt, good bit of pepper, tea- 
spoonful of rolled crackers for each. Put on the stove and let it boil ; have 
your oysters ready in a bowl ; the moment it begins to boil, pour in all 
your oysters — say ten for each person. Now watch carefull}'. As soon as 
it begins to boil, take out your watch, count just thirty seconds ; take your 
oysters from the stove ; have a large dish ready with one and a half table- 
spoons of cold milk for each person • pour your stew on this milk and serve 
immediately. Never boil an oyster in milk. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters ; butter the dish in which you expect to bake them ; 
scatter cracker crumbs, well seasoned with pepper and salt; then drop in 
a few pieces of butter, next a layer of oysters, then a layer of cracker 
crumbs, again bits of butter ; continue this until the dish is filled — the last 
layer should be crackers. Strain the oyster liquor — pour on the top. — 
Jtfrs. B. Ferguson. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

MEAT'S. 



GENERAL REMARKS ON SELECTING, PREPARING, COOKING AND 

CURING MEATS. 

When necessary to wash meats, it should be done as hurriedly as possi- 
ble, as the water will extract the juices of the meat. Beef, when just cut 
from a quarter, should not be washed : it is only necessary to wipe it with a 
clean, dry cloth. 

When meat is frozen, it should be put in cold water to thaw, and cooked 
as soon as possible, or it will lose its sweetness. 

In selecting beef, choose that of a fine grain, smooth, bright red color, 
and white fat. The sixth, seventh and eighth ribs are the choicest cuts for 
roasting. The bones must be removed and the meat rolled, and use the 
bones for soup. Veal, when fresh and good, is firm and dry, joints stiff, 
with kidneys ccvered with fat. Veal should be dressed as soon as practica- 
ble after killing. 

The flesh of good mutton or lamb is of a dark red, with the fat firm and 
white. Lamb, when fresh killed, is pale red ; if the neck veins are not of 
a blueish tint, the meat is not good. When roasted, the meat should be 
covered with the caul, as the fat that drips from that in roasting preserves 
the moisture of the meat. 

Pork is not considered wholesome, particularly in warm weather; it is 
much better in winter. Pork and veal should be well cooked. If the meat 
of pork is young, the lean will break on being pinched ; the skin will be 
smooth and thin. If kernels should be found in the fat, reject the meat. 

Venison is a delicious and healthful dish when properly cooked ; it should 
always be a little underdone, using few spices and herbs. Venison is not 
good until it hangs fully one month in order to ripen, 

RULES FOR BOILING. 

All kinds of meat should be boiled very slowly. All fresh meats should 
be put to cook in boiling water, over a slow fire to concentrate its juices. 

'^ [95] 



96 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Salt meats should be put on in cold water, in order to extract the salt in 
cooking. In boiling meats, it is proper to keep the pot gently boiling, but 
should never cease ; if so,the ineat will absorb the waterandcause it to be flat 
and insipid. Remove the scum when it first begins to boil. Always have 
at hand a kettle of boiling water to replenish the meat pot as the water 
boils away. To every pound of fresh meat allow fifteen minutes to boil, 
and to salt meat allow twenty minutes to the pound. The more gently 
meat boils the more tender it will be. Fresh meat should be kept covered 
with water while boiling, and requires close attention in boiling ; if boiled 
too hard, the meat is toughened and juices extracted. Meat should not 
boil too long ; if so, their nourishing properties are transferred to the water 
in which they are boiled. Good judgment and close attention are very 
necessary in order to boil meat just right. 

ROASTING. 

There are no definite rules for roasting meat ; some require meat quite 
rare or underdone, others like it cooked dry. In order to retain the juices 
and flavor of meat, when cooked, cover the surface of the roast with a rich 
glaze, put into a hot oven, so that, as the gravy exudes, it congeals on the 
outside, thus confining or seaUng up the pores. If the meat is lean, a 
small quantity of water must be added ; if it is fat, the water should be 
left out entirely. Meat, when roasting, should be turned so that it may 
blown equally. When done, remove from the pan and place on a dish 5 
carefully pour off all the fat from the pan ; the thick sediment in the bot- 
tom of pan will make sufficient gravy by adding a little boiling water ; no 
flour is needed to thicken the gravy — place the pan on the stove and boil 
two or three minutes, and serve with Ihe roast. 

It is a better plan to add neither salt nor pepper to the meat before 
cooking, as salt draws out the gravy, which it is your purpose to keep in, 
and pepper, when used on the surface of meats, becomes parched, and 
leaves a bad taste. When preparing the gravy, add pepper and salt. 
Lardering moistens meat while cooking, and adds richness to its flavor. 
To larder meat or poultry is simply introducing, into the surface of the 
flesh, by means of a larding needle, the clear fat of pork or bacon, cut 
into strips two inches long and not quite half an inch thick. Place the 
strips, one at a time, into the cleft end of the larding-pin, draw through, 



MEATS. 97 

leaving half an inch or so each side of the stitch. The whole surface may- 
be arranged in rows, or any fanciful forms desired. 

Fowls and game should be lardercd on the breast only. - 

ON FRYING AND BROILING. 

In frying meat a failure is always very apparent. In frying, a deep 
enameled or iron pan should be used, with sufficient fat to thoroughly 
cover the article ; it is best to be very generous with the fat, as it is quite 
as economical as to use less, for it can be used again if put aside in a clean 
vessel, being careful to pass it through a fine strainer, in order that no 
sediment may be found in the next frying. There are two very important 
rules to observe in frjang — your fat must be boiling hot, and the crumbs 
fine and even. Bread crumbs should be thoroughly rolled and finely 
sifted. 

It is well to keep on hand a good supply of bread crumbs. Cut slices 
of baker's bread, dry them in the oven, having the pieces almost colorless : 
when perfectly drj-, roll very fine, sift and put away for use. 

Broiling is a simple mode of cooking, and requires but little care and 
attention. A brisk, clear fire is essential; if the fire should be too heavy, 
the gridiron may be carefully raised a little and placed on two bricks, in 
order that the meat may not scorch; the gridiron must be very hot before 
the meat is placed upon it ; as soon as the gravy begins to show, turn it 
over ; if allowed to remain without turning until the gravy stands on the 
top, when turned it is lost in the fire ; but when turned quickly and at the 
proper time, the pores are at once sealed, and the gravy is retained in the 
meat. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Take a round of beef, remove the bone from the middle, also all the 
gristle and tough parts about the edges. Have ready half a pound of fat 
salt pork ; cut into strips as thick and long as your finger. 

Prepare a nice dressing, the same as for stuffing a turkey. With a sharp 
knife make incisions in the meat, about half an inch apart, thrust into them 
the pork and also some of the dressing. Proceed thus until the meat is 
thoroughly plugged. Put into a baking pan with a little water at the bot- 
tom • cover tightly and bake slowly four hours ; then uncover and spread 



98 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

the rest of the dressing over the top, and bake until nicely browned. After 
taking up, thicken the gravy and pour over the beef. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Take six or eight pounds of sirloin ; w^ipe, trim, and skevi^er into shape. 
If there be much flank, cut it off and use it for soups or stew. Lay the 
meat on a rack in the pan, and dredge all over with salt, pepper and flour ; 
put it in a verj^ hot oven with two or three tablespoonfuls of dripping or 
pieces of the beef fat placed in the pan. Place a rack under the pan or 
turn the heat off from the bottom of the oven. Put the skin side down first, 
that the heat may harden the juices in the lean part. When the flour is 
brown, baste the meat and reduce the heat. Baste often and dredge twice 
with salt and flour. When seared all over, turn the skin side up for the 
final basting and browning. Bake fifty minutes, if liked very rare ; an 
hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, if liked well done. Serve with 
Yorkshire pudding. 

BOUILLI BEEF. 

Get a piece of the rump, from twelve to thirteen pounds ; let the butcher 
take outthe bone and have an onion inserted ; rub it all over with different 
spices ; let it stand for a couple of days to become tender. Remove the 
onion when 5'ou put it over to boil ; skim carefulty all grease that will rise 
to the top. It must boil slowly for three or four hours. Add about six or 
eight cloves, two blades of mace, a few celerj^ tops ; in about two hours 
before dinner add two carrots, cut in thin, round slices, one onion, some 
allspice, whole peppers. Short time before serving, take out about a pint 
of the grav)' — add to it the same quantity of claret wine ; thicken with some 
browned flour, adding a few capers ; pour over the beef and serve. 

— Afrs. C. Uamilton. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Four to six pounds from the middle cut of the shin. Wash the meat on 
the outside and cut off any part of the skin which is not sweet and clean. 
Pick off all the fine fragmeuts of bone. Cut the meat into several pieces ; 
cover with boiling water. Skim carefully as it boils and then simmer 
until the meat falls to pieces and the liquor is reduced to half a pint. Re- 



MEATS. 99 

move the meat ; season the hquor highly with salt, pepper, sage and thyme, 
add it to the meat, and mix with the fork until the meat is all broken. 
Pack in a pan. When cold, cut in thin slices. 



BRAISED BEEF. 

Take six or eight pounds of round or a piece of the rump. Lard with 
salt pork. Put a few slices of pork in the braising pan ; when the pork 
begins to fr}^, add two onions, two slices carrot, half a turnip, all minced 
or chopped fine. As soon as they begin to brown nicely, draw to one side 
of the pan, and put in your beef. Dredge well with pepper, salt and 
flour. Brown the meat well on all sides, then add one quart of boiling 
water and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Cover the pan and cook slowly 
three and a half hours. Baste often ; take up and add to the gravy half 
can of tomatoes and cook ten minutes. Strain, pour around beef and 
serve 

RIB ROAST OF BEEF. 

Procure a second cut of rib roast of beef, remove the bones with a sharp 
knife, roll and skewer it. Before roasting takeout the butcher's skewers, 
unroll, season highly with salt and pepper and a few herbs, if liked ; roll 
again tightly, fastening securely with skewer pins. Place in a pan on a 
little iron griddle, made for the purpose to keep it just over the water in 
the pan. Pepper and salt freely, also dredge with flour, and baste every 
ten or fifteen minutes. Just before the beef is done pour over it haif a teacup 
of vineo-ar. To the gra\y put parsley, thyme and minced onion, which 
should be browned. 

TO COLLAR A FLANK OF BEEF. 

Procure a well corned flank of beef. After washing it, remove the inner 
and outer skin with the gristle. Make a seasoning of parsley, thyme, pep- 
per and cloves. 

Place the meat upon a board, and after rubbing with a little pepper, 
spread the mixture over the inside. Roll the beef very tight, fasten it with 
small skewers, place a bandage around the beef and tie with a strong tape ; 
place in a pot, and cover with water to the depth of an inch ; boil slowly 



100 TWENTIETH CENTURY PIOME COOK BOOK. 

six hours. When done remove without undoing it; lay a board on top of 
the beef, place a very heavy Vi^eight on top of the board, and let it remain 
twent}^-four hours. Remove bandage, garnish with curled parsley, and 
serve with tomato sauce, 

TO SPICE A ROUND OF BEEF. 

To a round of beef mix together four tablespoon fuls brown sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls saltpetre ; with this rub your beef well. Two teacups of 
salt, one teacup of cloves, one teacup of allspice (the spice must be ground 
fine). 

Rub the beef thoroughly with these ingredients. Put it into a tub just 
large enough to hold it well; turn it every day in the pickle it makes. In 
four weeks it will be ready to eat. For forty pounds use two and a half 
pounds of beef suet. When beef is cooked place sticks across the bottom 
of the pot to prevent its burning 

FRENCH BEEF. 

Take a circular piece of beef from the round, and after removing the 
bone, trim it nicely from the fat skin, etc. Then lard it all over with long 
slips of fat pork or bacon. The place from whence the bone was taken 
must be filled with a force-meat made of minced suet, grated bread crumbs, 
sweet marjoram rubbed fine and grated lemon peel ; add a little salt and 
pepper, and mix in the beaten j^olk of one egg, to bind together the other 
ingredients. Tie twine or tape closely round the outside of the beef, to 
keep it compact and in shape. 

Put it into a broad earthen jar with a cover, or into an iron bake oven. 
Add some whole pepper, a large onion stuck over with a dozen cloves, a 
bouquet of sweet herbs, three bay leaves, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
divided into small bits (each piece rolled in flour), and a pint of claret or 
port wine. Bake or stew it thus in its own liquor for five, six or seven 
hours (in proportion to its size), for it must be thoroughly done, quite ten- 
der, and brown all through the inside. Serve it hot, with the gravy round 
it. It is also very good when cold. 

RULE FOR CORNED BEEF. 

Take a very nice ten-pound roast of beef , add three coffee cups of salt ; 
cook until tender — good when hot, and delicious when cold. Better if 



MEATS. 101 



pressed when cold. It is to be boiled with the salt water, enough to cover 
it. Any less salt will greatly diminish its goodness. — Mrs. L. F. Hodges 



TO CORN BEEF. 

To every fifty pounds of beef, take : 

Three pounds of salt. 

One pound of brown sugar. 

One ounce of saltpetre. 

Two ounces of soda. 

One-half ounce of red pepper. 

This must be dissolved in two gallons of water. Pack the beef closely 
in a barrel, and cover it over with the inixture. Let it stand a week, or 
longer if the weather is cold, then pour off the brine, boil it, and skim off 
all the blood. Let it cool, and pour back over the beef. It will keep well. 

BRINE FOR BEEF. 

Sixteen quarts of salt. 

Thirty-four gallons of water. 

Four pounds of brown sugar. 

One pound of saltpetre. 

Boil and skim. Let the beef get entirely cold, and drain off as much of 
the blood as possible before it is put into the brine. Sometimes it is neces- 
sary at the expiration of a few months to boil and skim the brine a second 

time. 

The above quantity is sufficient for an ordinary sized beef. 

ROLY POLY. 

Procure a good round steak, and after beating thoroughly well, lay flat 
on a board ; make a dressing of Irish potato, mashed fine, bread crumbs, 
a small piece of butter, some minced parsley, minced onion, salt and pep- 
per. Spread this mixture on the steak, roll over and over like jelly cake, 
and fasten with skewers or sewing. Place in a baking tin with a little 
water, place in a hot oven, and baste every few minutes. Sift over the 
top browned cracker crumbs — serve with tomato or Hollandaise sauce- 



109 

TWENTIETH CENTrRY HOME COOK BOOK. 

BEEFSTEAK FRIED WITH ONIONS. 

Prepare a nice steak ; pepper, salt, and roll in flour ; fry in hot lard ; 
take the steak from the pan when done ; add onion chopped fine, pepper, 
salt, and water enough to make a good gravy. Cook a short while, re- 
turn the steak to the pan — let it stand in the gravy a few minutes. Serve 
while hot. Very nice. — Mrs. Morehead. 

BEEFSTEAK BROILED. 

Cut your steak one-half inch thick ; beat it well with a steak beater. 
Have your griddle over some fresh coals ; put the steak on the griddle, 
and when it becomes seared, turn it ; when seared on both sides put in a 
stewpan, season well with salt, pepper, and butter; put it in the pan and 
keep well covered without placing it on the fire. If your heat is strong, 
four or five minutes will be sufficient to cook it. — Mrs. J. P. Calhoun. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

Is made of round, chopped or grated very fine, then season with pep- 
per, salt and grated onion. Fry in hot fat. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH OYSTERS. 

Broil a sirloin or tenderloin steak ; season ; take a quart of oysters and 
drain off the liquor ; put them into the stewpan with half of a cupful of 
butter; a little less butter if you can add a few teaspoonfuls of cream. 
Salt and pepper to season it; when this comes to a boil, pour over the 
steak on the platter. Serve while hot. 

FRENCH BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut your steak two-thirds of an inch thick from a fillet of beef ; dip into 
melted butter, lay them on a hot gridiron and broil over fresh coals. 
When very nearly done sprinkle pepper and salt. Have ready some 
parsley, chopped fine and mixed with softened butter. Beat them to a 
cream and pour in the middle of the dish. Dip each piece of steak in the 
butter, turning them over, and lay them round on the platter. Very nice 
with the juice of lemon. Serve very hot. 



MEATS. 103 

SAVORY BEEF. 

Three and a half pounds of round beefsteak, chopped fine; three 
eggs, twenty oyster crackers, rolled fine ; four tablespoons sweet cream 5 
butter size of an egg ; salt and pepper to taste ; little nutmeg. Thin with 
milk to consistency of biscuit dough ; put in a buttered pan ; bake one 
and one-half hours. Eat when cold. Sliced for tea or lunch. — Mrs. W.P. 
Lynde. 

STAFFORDSHIRE BEEFSTEAK. 

Beat them a little with a rolling pin, flour, and season, then fry with a 
sliced onion ; lay the steaks into a stewpan and pour as much boiling 
water over them as will serve for sauce ; stew them gently about half an 
hour, and add a little catsup before serving. 

PRESSED BEEF. 

Cure a piece of brisket with salt and pulverized saltpetre for five or six 
days ; boil slowly until quite done and tender ; press until perfectly cold. 
Slice thin and serve with toinato sauce. 

BEEF OMELET. 

Three pounds of beefsteak, one light pound of suet chopped fine, salt, 
pepper, and a little sage, three eggs, seven crackers rolled fine ; make 
into a roll and bake. 

TO FRIZZLE BEEF. 

Shave off very thin pieces of beef, put them mto a spider and pour a little 
warm water over them, stir up and turn off the water, add a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg ; to a pound of beef, put the whole over the fire ; 
beat up two eggs with three tablespoonfuls of cream, dredge with flour, 
pour over it the beaten eggs and cream ; season with parsley, pepper and 
salt, to taste. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Take four pounds of the best sirloin steak, cut thin. Season with black 
pepper, and a very little salt. Put four tablespoonfuls of butter into a fry- 



104 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

ing pan, and put it over the fire. When it is quite hot, lay in the steaks 

and let them brown. 

Have ready a quart of mushrooms, stemmed and skinned, and moisten 
with a pint of water, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, and thickened 
slightly with a good dredging of flour. Pour it over the steaks in the fry- 
ing pan, and then let them cook till thoroughly done. 

Venison steaks will be found excellent dressed in this manner, but the 
venison must be fresh. 

MINCED BEEF. 

Take the lean of some coid roast beef. Chop it very fine, adding a small 
minced onion, and season it with pepper and salt. Put it into a stewpan 
with some of the gravj' that has been left from the day before, and let it stew 
for a quarter of an hour. Then put it (two-thirds full) into a deep dish. 
Fill up the dish with mashed potatoes, heaped high in the center, smoothed 
on the surface, and browned. Veiy nice with Chili sauce. 

Cold roast mutton or lamb may be minced as above, adding some sweet 
marjoram to the seasoning, and filling up the dish with mashed turnips 
instead of potatoes. 

Also cold roast pork, flavoring the seasoning with a little chopped sage. 
Cover the top with sweet potato, boiled and mashed, or with apple sauce 
that has been stewed as thick as possible. 

FRICASSEED BEEF. 

Take a piece of beef from the forequarter and cook it very tender, using 
only water enough to cook it. When about half done season well with 
salt, pepper, etc. If the water does not' boil away soon enough, turn it off, 
and let the beef fry ten minutes — it is excellent when well prepared. 

Take two tablespoonfuls flour, adding the fat; when mixed, pour on the 
hot ]uice of the meat Serve with sauce. 

TO COOK CORNED BEEF. 

Put the beef on in boding water, and when done, do not remove it from 
the pot, but let it remain in the same water until cold — this makes it juicy 
and delightful. 



MEATS. 105 

TO COOK A CORNED ROUND OF BEEF. 

Wash it well when taken from the brine. Secure it well in a piece of 
heavy cloth, or a thick coarse towel. Let the meat cook six or seven 
hours. Do not remove the cloth until next day — it is nice to place in a 
round mould, as it gives it a good shape. When the meat is thoroughly 
cold, trim and cut in thin slices across the grain. 

Nice with salad dressing. 

TO ROAST A BEEF HEART. 

Open the heart sufficiently to remove the ventricles, then soak it in 
water until the blood is discharged. Parboil the heart until nearly tender. 
Prepare a force-meat of bread crumbs and salt fat pork chopped fine ; 
season the force-meat with pepper, sweet marjoram, parsley, salt and a 
littte chopped onion ; stuff the heart witli the force-meat, and secure the 
opening with small skewers ; cut thin slices of fat ham and lay in the pan 
with about two tablespoonfuls of hot water ; then put the heart in the pan 
and baste with the gravy until done. Serve with currant jelly, or horse- 
radish grated, and a few slices of lemon. 

ESCALLOPED TONGUE. 

Chop the tongue when cold, and to one pint add one teaspoonful chopped 
parsley, one of salt, one of capers, one of bread crumbs ; three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Mix tongue and seasoning well together, butter your dish, 
cover the bottom with bread crumbs, and then put the meat on it, pouring 
over this one-half cup of stock and one tablespoonful of onion juice. 
Sprinkle a few bread crumbs on the top, with bits of butter, and bake fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Take a loin of veal ; prepare a stuffing as you would for roast turKey ; 
fill the flat with the stuffing ; secure it firmly on to the loin ; rub the veal with 
salt, pepper and a little butter ; put it into a pan with a little water. Let 
it cook until thoroughly done, basting often. When done, remove the 
threads before sending to the table. Thicken the gravy with a little flour, 

62 



106 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

VEAL STEAKS. 

Beat them until tender ; then broil over clear, hot coals until well browned 
on both sides ; season with salt, pepper and butter. Send to the table while 
hot. A gravy made by stewing in a little hot water with some bits of veal, 
with a few oysters or mushrooms, seasoned, and poured over the steak, is 
very nice. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

The cutlets should be cut three-quarters of an inch in thickness ; beat 
them well, dip in the yolk of beaten egg, and roll in bread crumbs, fr}'ing 
in hot lard until brown. Garnish with parsley and rolls of thin-sliced fried 
bacon. 

FILLET OF VEAL TO ROAST. 

Remove the bone. Prepare a stuffing of bread cruinbs and fat salt pork ; 
or, if you prefei it, butter and egg ; salt, pepper and sweet herbs, minced 
fine and well mixed. Stuff the place whence the bone was taken, and 
skewer the flap over the stuffing at one end. Fasten the other end with a 
skewer. Larder the outside of the ineat with fat ham or salt pork. Put a 
little water mto the pan with a little salt. Let the meat be well basted 
while cooking and see that it is thoroughly done. When cooked, baste it 
with butter, and serve it with sliced lemon. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. 

Take equal quantities of fat bacon and lean veal. Season with sage, 
salt and pepper, to the taste, and if convenient, an anchovj^ Chop well 
and mix together ; make into cakes and fry. 

VEAL OLIVES. 

Cut up a slice of a fillet of veal, about half an inch thick, into squares of 
three inches. Mix up a little salt pork chopped with bread crumbs, one 
onion, pepper, salt, sweet marjoram and cloves, with a well beaten egg ; put 
this mixture upon the pieces of veal, fasten the four corners together with 
skewers ; lay them in the pan with veal gravy or light stock enough to cover 



MEATS. 



107 



bottom of pan ; dredge with flour, and when well browned on top, drop a 
bit of butter on each, and let them remain about twenty-five minutes, at 
which time they will be nice and tender. Serve with horseradish. 

FILLET OF VEAL BOILED. 

Secure it with tape, put it into a cloth well floured, and in cold water; 
let the meat simmer at least four hours. 
Serve with Bechamel or oyster sauce. 

VEAL CHOPS. 

Beat the chops until quite tender, and then put in a pan and slightly 
cover them over with water. Simmer till tender, keeping the pan well 
covered. When almost done season with salt and pepper. Remove from 
the pan, dry with a cloth, butter, and drop in beaten egg and roll well in 
cracker crumbs. Put on a dish, and set in the stove to brown. 

Serve with HoUandaise sauce 

ESCALLOPED VEAL. 

Use baked or boiled veal ; cut or chop the veal, not very fine. Soak 
the bread. Put a layer of veal, then bread; season with butter, pepper, 
and salt ; add a little of the liquor that the meat is cooked in. Use fine- 
rolled crackers for top layer. Bake like oysters. 

VEAL CUTLETS BROILED. 

Broil them on a moderate fire, basting them with butter often, and 
turning frequently. Serve with tomato sauce. 

TO FRY CALF'S LIVER. 

Cut the liver into thin slices. Roll in flour and fry brown with lard. 
Season with pepper, salt and a little parsley. Keep the pan covered till 
well done. 

BROILED CALF'S LIVER, WITH BACON. 

Wash and cut the liver in thin slices ; broil over a brisk fire, with thin 
slices of breakfast bacon. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 



108 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

VEAL STEAK, WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Broil a steak in the usual wa)- — take the liquor from a can of oysters ; 
mix togther five ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, stir into the 
liquor; as soon as it boils, put in the oysters. Let it come to a good boil, 
then pour on the steak, and serve verj' hot. 

BAKED CALEBS HEAD. 

Boil the head till veiy tender, then cut up, putting into a deep dish. 
Rub together a spoonful of butter and flour, adding salt, pepper, cloves 
and thyme. Then add a wineglass of wine, and some of the water in which 
the head was boiled. Mix well through the meat; sprinkle the top with 
cracker crumbs and bake nicely. Garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. 

FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. 

Take a four-pound fillet of veal; trim to a nice shape and lard on top. 
Put thin slices of pork in a saucepan, lay over the pork sliced carrots, a 
stalk of celery, some parsley and an onion. Put the meat on top of the 
vegetables ; sprinkle over pepper and salt. Fill the saucepan with boil- 
ing stock to cover the meat. Cover with a light lid and bake in moderate 
oven two hours and a half. 

Baste several times. 

STEWED KIDNEYS. 

After soaking the kidneys for several hours, parboil them until very ten- 
der. Flour them, put in a stewpan a good spoonful of butter, two spoon- 
fuls of tomato or walnut catsup ; pepper and salt. Stew well. 

BEEF TONGUE. 

Soak in cold water all night ; wash and boil four or five hours ; when 
done take off the skin and cut in thin slices, and serve with salad dressing. 

BOILED TONGUE. 

Soak the tongue until it becomes soft. Put it into a stewpan with suffi- 
cient water, add a bouquet of herbs ; as soon as it boils, skim and then 



MEATS. 109 

simmer slowly until quite done, peel off the skin and garnish with parsley 
and lemon. 

BRAINS (FRIED). 

Prepare j-our brains with great care, taking out all the fiber. Place in 
cold water and soak for two hours. 

Then throw them into boiling water with salt and a little vinegar, and 
let boil fifteen minutes ; take out and throw them into cold water, drain 
well, and fry in hot lard (but not too hot). After the brains are fried put 
them on a white cloth, form a pyramid and dress with parsley. 

— Mrs. Granlees. 

BRAINS OMELET. 

Prepare the brains in the same manner as for frj^-ing, only after having 
been boiled, cut in pieces like oysters and throw the pieces in the eggs which 
have been prepared for omelet. Cook in the usual manner, not for- 
getting salt and pepper. 

BRAINS AND TOMATOES. 

Cook the brains, as said before, in water. Have good tomatoes, well 
seasoned with salt, pepper and veiy finely cut parsley, and a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut. AVhen the tomatoes are well cooked, throw in 
the brains and cook ver}^ few minutes. 

CALF'S BRAINS. 

Beat the brains nicely, adding a little thyme, parsley, nutmeg and few- 
drops of lemon juice. Mince the yolk of an egg and roll in flour. Make 
into small cakes and iry in hot fat. 

SWEETBREADS. 

put them in cold water ; remove the pipes and membranes. Cook them 
in boilino- salted water, with one tablespoonful of lemon juice, twenty min- 
utes and plunge into cold water to harden. They may then be cooked in 
either of the following ways : 



] 110 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK, 

LARDED SWEETBREADS. 

Lard and bake until brown, basting with brown stocii. Serve with 
peas. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS. 

Roll in fine bread crumbs, egg, and a second time in crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat or saute in a little fat. — Mrs. Grantees. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Cut in small pieces and serve in a white sauce, on toast or on toast pat- 
ties, or in puff paste or as a vol-au-vent. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS. 

Rub with butter, salt and pepper ; wrap in buttered paper, and broil ten 
minutes. Serve with Maitre d' Hotel butter. 

BECHAMEL SWEETBREADS. 

One pair sweetbreads. 
One tablespoonful of flour. 
One gill of cream. 
One-half teaspoonful of salt. 
One gill of stock. 
Six mushrooms, in quarters. 
Yolks of two eggs. 

Wash and parboil sweetbreads, cut with a silver knife in small pieces. 
Make the sauce just as before, only use two yolks instead of one. 

— Mrs. Atney Fallon, Wayne, Pa. 

SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Parboil sweetbreads, allowing eight medium-sized ones to a can of 
mushrooms ; cut the sweetbreads about half an inch square, stew until 
tender ; slice mushrooms and stew in the liquor one hour, then add to the 
sweetbreads a teacup of cream, a tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pep- 
per to the taste, — Mrs, George C. 



MEATS. Ill 

STEWED SWEETBREAD WITH CHAMPIGNON. 

Parboil one set of sweetbread; take all the skin and fat from them. 
Cut them up in a saucepan with a can of champignon also cut up, and the 
liquor added, one-fourth pound butter and a little red pepper. Let the 
champignon cook half hour before adding sweetbread. Just before taking 
them off, add one-half teacup of Madeira; thicken with a little flour and 
brown with burnt s;.^.ir. — Mrs. Granlees. 

TO PREPARE TRIPE. 

Put the tripe in cold water after it has been weu cleaned, adding little 
salt ; wash it well and change the salt water every day for several days ; 
when the tripe gets to be very white, boil in a vessel of salt water. Drop 
the tripe in vinegar until wanted. Cut in any shape desired, and fry in 
batter. 

When preferred, tripe is very nice cut in squares, dipped in beaten egg, 
and rolled in cracker crumbs and fried in hot fat. 

TRIPE A LA LYONAISE, WITH TOMATOES. 

Take two pounds of dressed and boiled tripe ; cut into strips about two 
inches long and put into a saucepan. Drain off the water in which the 
tripe has been parboiled ; chop a small onion fine, and let all stew twenty- 
five minutes ; add a little thickening, and then stir in half a can of good 
tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper. Very fine. 

TO FRY BEEF HEEL. 

Cut the feet into any shape desired, pour vinegar over them, and fry in 
hot fat. 

CALF'S HEAD A L'ANGLAISE. 

Procure a fine, fat, white, scalded calf's head ; bone it in the manner 
described for prepai-ing mock-turtle soup ; then put in a large panful of 
cold water, in order that it may be thoroughly cleansed, after which, put 
on fire in a large stewpan with cold water, and as soon as it boils, skim it 
well • then let it boil five minutes ; take up and put into cold water to 
cool. Next, drain it on a napkin, cut the ears out, leaving sufficient base 



113 ' TWENTIETH CENTURY IIO.ME COOK BOOK. 

around them to allow them to stand up; cut the checks, etc., into pieces 
two inches square, and pare off any rough cuticles there may be about 
them. Rub each piece of calf's head with lemon juice ; place the whole, 
including the tongue, in a large stewpan, with carrot, onion, cclerj', pars- 
ley roots, sweet basil, a garnished fagot of parsley and four cloves, and 
two blades of mace ; moisten with half bottle of sherr}' or Madeira, and 
two ladlesful of good white stock, and set the whole to braize gently on a 
moderate lire for two hours. When the pieces of calf's head are ck)ne, 
drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle round the 
tongue, which has been trimmed, glazed, and placed in the center of dish. 
Then cut the brains into scollops, and place them in the flanks, and at 
each end place the ears, trimmed and curled; pour some parsley and but- 
ter over the remove, and send to table. 

BRAIZED OX TONGUE. 

Scald a fresh ox tongue in boiling water upon the fire for ten minutes ; 
then immerse into cold w^ater, remove root and superfluous fat, Then 
place the tongue in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion, one head of celery, 
a garnished fagot, four cloves, and a blade of mace ; add a glass of brandy 
and enough good stock to cover the whole, and set it to braize gently for 
two hours and a half upon a slow fire. When the tongue is done, take it 
out of the braize, trim and put into a stewpan with its own liquor, which 
■ has been divested of all the grease, strained through a sieve, and boiled down 
to half its quantitj'. 

About half hour before sending to the table, set the tongue on a slow fire 
to simmer until warmed through ; roll it in its glaze, dish it up with cherry 
sauce under it, and send to table; garnish around with a border of potato 
quenelles. 

STEWED OX TAIL. 

Two ox tails cut in pieces three inches in length ; to it add three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one large onion, half carrot, three slices of turnip, two 
stalks of celer}', two cloves, pint and a half of stock, salt and pepper to suit the 
taste; cut the vegetables in small pieces, heat the butter, then add the vegeta- 
bles, and when it begins to brown, add little flour and stir three minutes. Put 
in the tails, adding the seasoning and stock. Simmer gently three hours, 
serve on hot dish, and pour strained gravy over them. 



/ 

MEATS. 113 

OX TAIL A LA TARTARE. 

Three ox tails cut in pieces three inches long ; to this add one quart of 
stock and a bouquet of sweet herbs, salt and pepper. Let the ox tails sim- 
mer two hours in this, then take up, drain and cool. When cold, dip in 
beaten egg, rolled in fine cracker crumbs and then fried a golden color in 
hot lard. Pour tartare sauce on middle of cold dish, arrange ox tails on 
this and garnish ■with parsley. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

The saddle is considered the finest piece, and is composed of the back 
or loin and upper part of the hind legs. The hindquarter and loin make 
a fine dish. The forequarter is often cut by taking off the shoulder and 
using the ribs or brisket, and great many persons look upon it as a choice 
part of the mutton. Before cooking mutton, the outside skin should be 
taken off entirely. The oil of the wool penetrates through the skin, and it 
is this which causes the meat to have that strong woolly taste which is ex- 
ceedingly unpleasant. 

Boiled mutton is very nice, but this mode of cooking will not apply to 
lamb. There is nothing better than lamb when nicely cooked. Lamb, 
when roasted, should be covered with the caul, as the dripping from this 
keeps the meat moist. Lamb should not be eaten until four and a half 
months old. 

The flesh of good mutton or lamb is a bright red, with the fat firm and 
white. 

A LEG OF MUTTON TO ROAST. 

Require your butcher to take off the shank and the skin ; wrap the flank 
nicely around, and secure the skewers; cut a gash in the joint and turn up 
the bone close to the fillet; secure it with skewers; dredge well with flour 
and salt ; put your meat to roast over a good fire and baste often . 

Serve with currant jelly. 

A SHOULDER OF MUTTON TO ROAST. 

Remove the bone, and fill the space with a force-meat made of bread 
crumbs, salt pork, chopped fine, pepper, sak, sweet marjoram and thyme; 
baste and dredge well. Serve with lenion or pickle. 



lltt TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put in boiling water with a little salt ; boil two hours or more ; make a 
sauce of melted butter, a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; stir this into 
a tablespoonful of flour well, then stir mto a pint of boiling water, with a 
tablespoonful of capers. Put into a gravy dish on the table, and garnish 
the dish with boiled cauliflower and parsley. 

BONED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Remove the bone ; wipe inside and out with a wet cloth ; sprinkle the 
inside with salt ; stuff and sew. Put on a rack in dripping pan with some 
of the kidney suet on the meat and in the pan. 

Dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and bake in a hot oven. 

Baste as soon as the flour is brov/n, and repeat this often. 

Bake one hour, if liked rare ; one hour and a quarter, if well done. 

STUFFING FOR SAME. 

One cup of cracker or stale breadcrumbs. Season with one salt spoon- 
ful each of salt, pepper, thyme or marjoram, and moisten with a quarter of 
a cup of melted butter. Add hot water if a moist stuffing be desired. 

BREAST OF MUTTON AND GREEN PEAS. 

Select a breast of mutton, and cut it into small pieces, dredge it with 
fionr, and fr^' a nice brown in butter. Cover it with water and add pep- 
per and salt ; put the pan over a moderate fire to stew, until the meat is 
very done and tender. Take out the meat, take off all the fat from the 
gravy, and just before serving add a quart of tender young peas which 
have been boiled with the strained gravy, and let the whole boil gently 
until the peas are done. Very nice. 

MUTTON CUTLETS BRAISED. 

Prepare the cutlets, having them an inch thick; insert five pieces of fat 
bacon through the lean of each cutlet ; trim off the ends and cover the bot- 
tom of a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, and lay the cutlets, say ten or a 
dozen, on top of bacon; cover them with stock ; to this add an onion, a few 
cloves, and a bunch of parsley; cover them and let them simmer over a 



MEATS. 115 



slow fire for two hours ; when found to be tender, put upon an oval dish 
with a Httle of their stock. Lay a dish upon top of this, with eight-pound 
weight ; when cold, trim them nicely, warm them with their stock, dress 
with mashed potatoes, and serve with onion sauce. 



MUTTON CHOPS. 

Have them trimmed well from all fat and skin ; dip each one into beaten 
egg, and then in rolled cracker ; fry in hot fat — and they are even better if 
baked slowly in the oven. Serve with sliced lemon. 

MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

Cut chops from the loin, take all the fat from the under side, place them 
on a gridiron over a good fire, let the gridiron be placed in a slanting posi- 
tion to prevent the fat from dropping into the fire ; when the chops are 
done put them in a hot dish ; season with pepper, salt and butter. Serve 
with brown mushroom sauce or currant jelly. 

CUTLETS A LA DUCHESSE. 

Cut the neck of lamb, about two pounds, into cutlets ; trim them and 
scrape the top of bone clean ; fry in butter and let them cool. Put into a 
pan three mushrooms and a sprig of parsley, chopped fine, a piece of but- 
ter size of an egg ; stir over the fire until very hot ; then pour over a cup- 
ful of white sauce — the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Stir constantly 
until about the consistency of thick cream, being very sure that it does not 
scorch, nor boil. Dip each cutlet into it, covering well with the sauce; 
again set away to cool. Then dip in egg, and roll in crumbs and fry a 
pretty brown. Elegant. 

BRAISED BREAST OF LAMB. 

Have your butcher remove the bones from a breast of lamb ; season the 
meat with salt and pepper ; roll up and tie securely. Chop fine one onion, 
one slice of carrot and one of turnip ; put two good tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the braising-pan ; when a little warm add the chopped vegetables. Stir 
a few minutes, then put in the lamb, well dredged with flour. Cover the 
pan and place where it will cook slowly for about thirty-five minutes ; then 



116 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

add one quart of good stock; put in the oven, allowing it to cook mod- 
erately for about one hour. Baste the meat quite often; take it from the 
pot, skim all the fat from the gravy, and then place where it will boil very 
rapidly six or eight minutes. Remove the string from the meat. Strain 
the gravy and pour over the dish. Serve with brown mushroom sauce. 

FOREQUARTER OF LAMB, A L'HOTEL. 

Take a forequarter of lamb and cover with the caul ; when the meat is 
done, it will be a light gold color, then put a quarter of a pound of Maitre 
d'hotel butter into a pan, and as it melts add about half a pint of cream, 
stir well until hot, but not near boiling, and the moment you serve pour it 
upon the dish, and dress the forequarter upon it. 

A SADDLE OF LAMB. 

Prepare as you would a saddle of mutton ; it is not necessary, however, to 
saw the backbone ; as in carving, the joints should be cut through both sides 
of the chine. Salt the meat and dredge well with flour ; baste often until 
done. Serve with mint sauce. 

BREADED LAMB CHOPS. 

Grate some stale bread, season with salt and pepper ; prepare some eggs 
well beaten, have your pan with hot fat ready ; dip 3'our chops into the 
beaten egg and then roll over in the bread crumbs ; repeat dipping in egg 
and rolling in the crumbs, as it is a great improvement ; then lay each one 
into the boiling lard ; fry a nice brown. Serve with currant jelly or grape 
catsup. 

TO FRY LAMB STEAKS. 

Dip the steaks into well beaten egg, cover with cracker crumbs and fry in 
hot lard or butter. Mashed potatoes and boiled rice are a great improve- 
ment. Thicken your gravy with flour and butter ; add little lemon juice 
and pour hot upon the steaks. Garnish the dish with spoonfuls of rice, here 
and there. 



MEATS. 11'^ 

LAMB'S HEAD TO FRICASSEE. 

Parboil the head and haslet; when done enough, cut in nice slices; also 
slice the tongue and heart, and fricassee as for chicken. Fry the sweet- 
breads and liver together, also some nice slices of bacon and a few bunches 
of parsley. Place the fricassee on a dish and garnish with the fried pieces. 

DELICIOUS FLAVOR TO LAMB. 

Put in the water in which the lamb is boiled some whole cloves and sticks 
of cinnamon; to one leg of lamb put a small handful of cloves and two long 
sticks of cinnamon. This gives a delicious flavor to cold lamb ; in roasting 
lamb, boil cinnamon and cloves in water and baste the meat. 

BREAST OF LAMB, WITH PEAS. 

Braise a breast of lamb in any kind of white broth ; when done, take up 
carefully and remove all the bones, and reserve these for the purpose of 
making cutlet bones with ; put the breast in press between two dishes, and 
when cold cut them into pieces in the form of a heart, or a cutlet ; stick a 
small bone in at the narrow end and spread a coating of white sauce over 
them ; when cool roll in bread crumbs and then dip in beaten egg, and 
bread crumb them over again. When about to send to the table fry the 
cutlets in boiling fat, dish them up, garnish them with stewed peas, pour 
some glaze around the base and serve. 

]SfoTE. — Breasts of lamb may also be served with spinach, cucumbers, 
asparagus-peas, endives, etc. 

BREAST OF LAMB. WITH NEW POTATOES. 

Trim and prepare them in the same way as the foregoing ; bread crumb 
the cutlets, first dipped in beaten egg, and then in clarified butter; bread 
crumb them the second time ; put them in shape with the blade of a knife, 
and put in pan with a little clarified butter. When about to send to the 
table, fry the cutlets of a light color, drain them on a sheet of paper and 
glaze lightly ; dish them up and serve some white sauce under them. 
They may be served with all kinds of vegetable garnishes. 



Ills TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. ' 

BLANQUETTE OF LAMB'S SWEETBREADS. 

Take about eight throat sweetbreads ; steep them in water, scald them, 
and then braise them in a small stewpan with very little moisture ; they 
will be done in about a quarter of an hour ; put them on a dish to cool j 
cut them into scollops, and put into a stewpan containing pure white sauce, 
toss the whole together till warm, then dish up the blanquette in a conical 
form, garnish it round with a border of potatoes cut in pretty shapes, and 
serve. 

Note. — Mushrooms, cucumbers, truffles or asparagus-peas may be 
added. 

PORK. 

The most choice pieces for roasting are the chine and sparerib. 

FILLET OF PORK. 

Cut a fillet nicely and evenly from a fine leg of fresh pork. Take out 
the bone. Make a force-meat or stuffing of grated bread, or cracker 
crumbs and butter ; mince together a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram and 
sage, each, or enough to make a tablespoonful when rubbed. Mix well 
together, and season with salt and pepper. Add the beaten yolk of two 
eggs to bind the ingredients together ; then stuff firmly into the place from 
whence the bone was taken. 

Score the skin of the pork in circles all around the fillet. Rub into 
them a little sage (powdered) . Put the pork on the fire and roast slowly 
for several hours, or until quite done. 

Baste the meat at first with little lard, to make the skin crisp, and after- 
ward baste with its own gravy. 

When done, take the fat from the grav}', and thicken with little flour. 

Send the pork to the table with the gravy in a boat ; and a little dish of 
apple sauce, made very thick, flavored with lemon, and sweetened well. 

ROAST PORK. 

The loin, leg, shoulder, or fillet are nice for roasting. Prepare a stuffing 
as for fowl, seasoned with onion and sage. Cut the skin into small 
squares ; or should the skin be taken off sprinkle with little fine sage. 

Baste often. 



MEATS. 119 

PORK STEAKS TO BROIL. 

Cut the steaks from the chine about half an inch thick ; trim off the 
thick part of the bone; salt the steaks and broil over a moderate fire, 
having them to brown on both sides. When done, season with butter and 
pepper, and serve hot. 

BAKED CHINE. 

Rub the chine well with salt. Place into a dripping-pan with a large tea- 
cup of water. Put around the meat several medium-sized sweet potatoes. 
Keep the pan well covered, and cook until thoroughly done. Place the 
chine on a platter with the potato around it. 

SPARERIBS. 

When the ribs are closely cut, and spare, it is weil to dress with bread 
crumbs. Put the ribs in a pan ; spread over them a dressing of crumbs, 
nicely seasoned with pepper, salt and sage ; then put another layer of 
sparerib, and seasoning, with little water in the pan. Cook until well 
done ; drain off the top ; add little water, and thicken the gravy. 

BROILED SPARERIBS. 

Sprinkle salt and pepper ovei the ribs ; place on a broiling iron over 
good hot coals ; turn often, and when done place on a platter and send to 
the table. Very delicate and nice. 

LEG OF PORK STUFFED. 

Make deep incisions in the meat ; boil some potatoes done, mash fine, 
and add an onion chopped, little sage, pinch of cayenne, and salt. Mix 
with this a piece of butter and fill the incisions ; pull the skin down and 
skewer over to keep the dressing from falling out. Roast slowly ; when the 
meat is done pour the gravy in a pan, take off the fat, add a little browned 
flour ; as soon as it boils up once, remove from the fire. 

Serve with cranberry sauce. 

ROAST PIG. 

A pig to be roasted whole should not be over six or seven weeks old. 
As soon as the pig is killed, put it in a vessel of cold water (as this makes 



120 TWEXTIETTI CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

it tender) ; when cold throw into hot boiUng water, but do not let it re- 
main any time ; whirl it over quickly and draw out by the hindlegs ; 
shake well and rub the hair off by the handful. Then scrape and wash 
until very white ; take out the entrails ; wash well, and let the pig remain 
hanging an hour or more. Wrap the pig in a large towel or cloth and 
put on ice in summer, or in a very cool place ; it should not be cooked the 
same day that it is killed. Stew the liver and haslets of the pig and chop 
fine ; to this add equal quantity of bread crumbs, a large spoonful of butter, 
two or three hard-boiled eggs ; chop fine and season with parsley, thyme, 
pepper, salt and a very little sage. Mix. together well, rub the inside of the 
pig with a little pepper and salt, and fill with the dressing, sewing up 
securely. Bend the forelegs under the bod^', the hindlegs forward, under 
the pig, and skewer to keep in place. Put the pig in a baking pan and 
pour over it a quart of hot water. Rub the pig all over with butter, then 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, putting in the pan a bouquet of herbs and a 
piece of butter ; turn a pan over the pig and let it cook slowly until done. 
Remove the pan, rub with butter and baste often. When nicely browned, 
sift over the pig powdered cracker ; place the pig kneeling in a large dish, 
garnished thickly with curled parsley. Place in its mouth an orange. If 
eaten hot, serve with grav}', but makes a better dish eaten cold, with graced 
horseradish. 

SOUSE CHEESE. 

Put the meat in cold water, let it stand several days, changing the water 
ever}^ day. Scrape well each time the water is changed. If the weather 
is warm use a little salt in the water. Scraping the meat often will make 
it white. Boil the meat in sufficient water to cover it ; as soon as it is ten- 
der drop it in :nilk-warm water, and when thoroughly cold, in salt water, 
The head should be boiled until the bones are about to leave the meat. 
Put in a few ears scraped very white and boil also. Chop the whole very 
fine and season to taste with pepper and salt ; put the ineat in a bowl and 
place a weight on top. When ready for use slice and serve with vinegar. 

—Mrs. R. G. Fay ton. 

FRIED PORK TENDERLOINS. 

Split the tenderloins. Rub well with salt and pepper, fry in lard a nice 
brown, and serve hot. 
63 



MEATS. 121 

SALT PORK. 

Salt pork requires longer boiling than salt beef. Serve with mustard 
and horseradish. 

TO BARBECUE SHOAT. 

The shoat should be kept in water until time to put it on to cook, then 
place in the oven with half a gill of water, rubbing it over with a little lard ; 
dredge with flour; cook slowly, and when about done enough to remove 
from the fire, put a spoonful of butter to the gravy and pour over it half a 
cup of Walnut catsup. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

To fifteen pounds of meat add four ounces of fine salt, one and a half 
ounces of pepper, one small teacup of sage, half a teacupful of summer 
savory. 

ANOTHER RECIPE FOR SAUSAGE. 

Fifteen pounds of choice lean pork, seven pounds of fat, seven table- 
spoonfuls of salt, seven of sage, two and one-half of thyme, six of pepper 
and four of sweet marjoram. Mix the meat well with the seasoning ; keep 
in a cool, dry place. 

BACKBONE PIE. 

Take the small end of the backbone, cut in pieces two or three inches 
long, wash well and boil in water until done. Have ready a nice pastry ; 
line a baking dish with some of the pastry, lay the bones into this dish with 
some of the water in which they were boiled. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper, adding butter and a few pieces of pastry dropped here and 
there in the pie. Cover the top of the dish with pastry ; place in stove ; 
bake nice and brown. 

This is a o-reat Southern dish, and delicious when nicely prepared, 

TO RENDER LARD. 

Cut in small pieces ; wash well ; put in a large pot with water enough to 
start it well to cooking. Boil quite rapidly until nearly done. When the 
cracklins beo-in to brown the lard should cook slowly to prevent burning. 
The crackUnsof leaf lard will be of a light brown when sufficiently cooked, 
and will sink to the bottom. The fat of the backbone is very nice pre- 



122 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

pared in the same way. If you use the fat from the entrails it must be 
well washed and soaked for several days, changing the water often, using 
salt in the water to draw out the impurities. 

When soaked very nice and white, wash in two or three warm waters ; 
boil as you would leaf lard, only using mor„ water. The cracklins are fine 
and soft and will fall to the bottom when done. Use them for making 
soap. 

HOW TO COOK PIG'S FEET. 

Clean the feet well and soak until very white. Wrap each foot in a 
piece of cloth — tieing it well with a cord. Boil tliem three or four hours ; 
let them remain in the cloths till needed. When cooked in this way they 
will be found very delicate and tender, and are nice for frying, broiling or 
pickUng. 

HAM WITH MADIERA. 

Put a ham that is not very salt into your boiler, with water sufficient to 
cover it ; let it warm gradually over the fire ; when the water has become 
scalding hot, turn it off ; take out the ham, scrape it clean, wash it well and 
return it to the boiler with two quarts of cold water, one onion, one carrot, 
cut in slices ; put this over a moderate fire, and when it boils, add a few 
bay leaves, a bunch of parsley, a dozen cloves and one bottle of Madeira ; 
let the whole simmer three hours, turn off the liquor, take off all the fat, 
thicken some of the liquor for gravy, trim off the skin nicely, put a rufHe on 
the bone and serve. 

WESTPHALIA HAM A L'ESSENCE. 

Trim and remove the thigh bone from a Westphalia ham, soak in cold 
water two or three days, then boil it in water for an hour ; after washing in 
cold water put in a large braising pan, with two carrots, two onions, a head 
of celery, a bouquet of herbs, namely : parsley, green onions, thyme, 
sweet basil, bay leaf, also four cloves and two blades of mace ; moisten 
with two glasses of brandy, half a bottle of sherry, and enough broth to float 
the ham, then set the ham to simmer very slowly five or six hours. When 
the ham is braised sufficiently tender, and allowed to remain in its liquor 
an hour or more, drain it on to a dish, divest it of the rind, trim off the fat 
smooth, to give it a neat appearance. 



MEATS. 123 

Glaze the ham, replace it in the oven again for five minutes ; glaze it 
once more, and place it on its dish ; garnish it round with asparagus-peas, 
carrots, or spinach, with Espagnole sauce mixed with a glass of sherry, and 
about a pint of the liquor in which the ham has been braised ; place a ruffle 
on the bone and send to table. 

HAM TO FRY. 

Cut the slices quite thin, remove the skin, put them into a hot spider and 
turn frequently until a little brown ; be very careful not to burn the slices ; 
when donf" serve in hot dish, 

HAM TO BROIL. 

Cut the slices thin, take off the skin, place on a gridiron over a hot fire ; 
turn them in one minute ; the ham will cook sufficiently in two or three 
minutes. Serve with Picalilli. 

HAM TO BOIL. 

Put a ham on the fire (weighing about twelve pounds) in a large quan- 
tity of water, and let it be an hour coming to a boil ; let it boil slowly three 
hours, and as the water in the pot diminishes, replenish with boiling water; 
at the end of three hours take the ham from the pot; remove its skin, cover 
the ham with fine cracker crumbs and place before a moderate fire to 
brown ; when browned, cover the outside of the ham with spots of pepper 
in diamonds, place a clove into each of these spots ; put a ruffle of cut 
paper around the knuckle and serve with horseradish or sharp sauce. 

BRAISED HAM, WITH SPINACH, ETC. 

When about to dress a ham, care must be taken to see that it has been 
well trimmed, and the thigh bone removed ; then put it to soak in a large 
pan filled with cold water ; the length of time a ham should remain in soak 
depends much upon the size and whether it be new or seasoned. The 
water should be changed often ; it is necessary also to scrape off the slimy 
surface from the ham previously to placing in the water in which it should 
boil. Let the ham boil foi one hour, then take it out, scrape, and wash in 
cold water; place in a braising pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a 



124 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



head of celery, garnished fagot, two blades of mace, and four cloves, moisten 
with common broth sufficient to float the ham, then set it on the stove to 
braise for two hours. To obtain tenderness and sweetness in a well dressed 
ham, it must never boil, but simmer gently by a slow fire. This rule ap- 
plies to the braising of all salted or cured meats. When the ham is done 
take the pan in which it was braised away from the fire and set to cool in 
the open air, allowing the ham to remain in the braise ; by this means it 
will retain all of its moisture — for when the ham is taken out of the braise 
as soon as done and put on a dish to keep cool, all its richness exudes from 
it. After the ham has partially cooled in its braise 5 take out and trim, 
placing it in a braising pan with some of its own stock; and about one hour 
before dinner put in the ovenj when warmed through, place the ham on a 
baking dish in the oven to dry the surface, then glaze it; replace in the 
oven again three minutes, to dry it, and glaze it again • by that time the ham 
will have a bright appearance. Put it now on its dish and garnish it with 
well dressed spinach, placed round the ham in tablespoonfuls, shaped like 
so many eggs ; pour some bright Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. 

VIRGINIA MODE OF CURING HAMS. 

Put a teaspoonful of saltpetre on the fleshy side of each ham, salt not too 
heavily for five weeks ; if the weather is freezing cold, six weeks ; then 
brush the hams well and rub them with hickory ashes. Let them stay for 
one week, then hang and smoke them for six weeks with green hickory 
chips. After brushing, pack them in hickory ashes in a bulk. 

— Mrs. P. C. M., in ^^ Housekeeping in Old Virginia." 

TO CURE PORK. 

First sprinkle little salt over the pork, then lay it in a vat four or five days, 
then put the pork in a barrel and cover each layer with salt. The barrel 
must be kept well covered. Next make a brine strong enough to float a 
potato, and add to two hundred pounds of meat, two ounces of saltpetre. 

FOR KEEPING CURED MEATS. 

Procure a large box, cover the bottom with a layer of common field 
corn (shelled) ; put a layer of the meat, another of corn, alternately, in this 
way until the box is nearly filled, having a thick layer of the corn on top. 
This is an excellent remedy for keeping hams, shoulders, or side meat. 
The corn can be used for fattening hogs and other purposes after the meat 
has all been used from the box. All who try this plan will like it. 

— Mrs. Dan Rogers, Grand Cane, La, 



CHAPTER IX. 



POULTRY. 



TO CLEAN AND TRUSS POULTRY. 

The practice of sending poultry to the market undressed is one that de- 
mands as earnest opposition from housekeepers as that of the adulteration 
of food. The meat is rendered unfit for eating ; is sometimes infected with 
poison and the increase in weight makes poultry a very expensive food. 
All poultr}' should be dressed as soon as killed. The feathers come out 
more easily when the fowl is warm, and when stripped .off toward the 
head. If the skin be very tender, pull the feathers out the opposite way. 
Use a knife to remove the pin feathers. Singe the hairs and down by 
holding the fowl over a gas jet, or over a roll of lighted paper held over 
the fire. Cut off the head, and if fowl is to be roasted, slip the skin back 
from the neck and cut the neck off close to the body, leaving skin enough 
to fold over on the back. Remove the windpipe ; pull the crop away from 
the skin on the neck and breast, and cut off close to the opening into the 
body. Be careful not to tear the skin. Always pull the crop out from 
the end of the neck, rather than through a cut in the skin, which, if made, 
has to be sewed together. Cut through the skin about two inches below 
the leg joint ; bend the leg at the cut by pressing it over the edge of the 
table, and break off the bone. Then pull, not cut, out the tendons. 
If care be taken to cut only through the skin, these cords may be pulled 
out easily, one at a time, with the fingers. Or take them all out at once 
by putting the foot of the fowl against the casing of a door, then shut the door 
tio-htly and pull out the leg. The tendons will come out with the foot ; but if 
once cut, they can not be removed. The drumstick of a roast chicken or 
turkey is greatly improved by removing the tendons, which always become 
hard and bony in baking. There is a special advantage in cutting the leg 
below the joint, as the ends of the bones afford more length for tying, and 
after roasting, this is easily broken off, leaving a clean, unburned joint for 

the table. 

TO ROAST A TURKEY. 

When the turkey is prepared as above, fill the place from which the crop 
was taken with a force-meat of bread crumbs, salt pork, sweet marjoram, 

[125] 



126 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

pepper and salt ; mix well, draw the skin down over it, securing well with 
a small skewer. Dredge with flour, and if the turkey is not very fat, use 
bits of butter about the breast Turn the fowl frequently until the flour 
begins to brown ; baste often with salt and water from the dripping pan ; 
when half done, dredge it again with flour; if the breast seems to be 
browning too fast, place a piece of paper over it. Fifteen or twent}' min- 
utes before you wish to serve it drip a little melted butter over it. For 
gravy, boil the neck, heart, liver and gizzard in a pan, adding a pint of 
water • when very tender, remove from the water, chop all fine, rejecting 
the neck, and return same to liquor in which they were cooked ; add to this 
the liquor in the dripping pan of the roaster; skim all the fat from the 
surface of the stewpan ; set the pan over the fire, boil a- few minutes, thicken 
gravy with a little browned flour. Serve with Cranberry sauce. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

The turkey is without doubt the most savory and finest flavored of all 
our domestic fowls, and is justly held in the highest estimation by all good 
livers. A dressing made of bread crumbs, butter, sweet herbs rubbed 
fine, moistened with eggs and seasoned with pepper, salt and grated nut- 
meg. Sausage meat or forced meat made of chicken meat, boiled ham 
grated fine, chopped oysters, roasted or boiled chestnuts, rubbed fine, 
stewed mushrooms, or last, but not the least in estimation, a dozen fine 
truffles, cut into pieces and sauted in the best of butter, and adding part to 
the stuffing and part to the sauce, which" is made from the drippings. 
(Made into a good, brown gravy by the addition of a cupful of cold water 
thickened with a Httle flour, with the giblets boiled and chopped fine in it.) 

A turkey of ten pounds will require two and a half hours roasting and 
frequent basting. Currant jelly, Cranberry jelly or Cranberry sauce, 
should always be on the table with roast turkey. 

ROAST TURKEY, WITH OYSTER DRESSING. 

After washing turkey thoroughly, wipe dry and rub with a little salt. 
Have ready some bread cut in dice, salt, pepper, sage and one tablespoonful 
of butter, two dozen raw oysters. 

Mix all together and stuff the turkey. Sew or skewer it ; put in an oven 
and bake two and a half hours, basting frequently. 



POULTRY. ^^" 

TO BRAISE A TURKEY. 

First prepare the following vegetables by peeling and washing: two 
onions, two small carrots, one turnip ; cut them in thin slices, with a little 
celery, two bay leaves and a few sprigs of parsley. Lay the vegetables 
on clean sheets of paper and pour over two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 
The turkey must be trussed. Cover breast with thin slices of bacon and 
lay the back of the bird on the vegetables; cut a few slices of lemon and 
place on the breast, to keep it white ; tie the paper round with a stout 
string; then place it to roast three hours. In the regular braise pan, or 
oven roaster, it will not need the paper, but must have the vegetables 
under it and the lemon on the breast, as above. 

ROAST TURKEY, WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Prepare the turkey in the usual way for roasting ; for dressing take 
some bread cut in dice ; season with salt, pepper, sage and sweet marjoram 
one dozen chestnuts which have been previously boiled and chopped. 
Mix all well together and stuff the bird. Roast and baste in the usual 
manner. Serve with currant jelly. 

BOILED OR STEAMED TURKEY. 

Clean, rub well with salt, pepper and lemon juice, and stuff with oyster 
or bread stuffing. It is better without the stuffing, as the same flavor may 
be obtained from an oyster sauce served with the turkey. Truss the leg 
and wings close to the body, pin the fowl in a cloth, as it keeps it whiter 
and preserves the shape. Plunge into boilmg, salted water. Allow twenty 
minutes to the pound. Cook slowly till tender, but not long enough for it 
to fly apart. Turkeys are much nicer steamed than boiled. Serve with 
oysters, celery, lemon or caper sauce. Garnish with a border of boiled 
rice or macaroni, and pour a part of the sauce over the fowl. Fowls are 
delicate and nice stuffed with boiled celery cut in pieces an inch long, 
or with boiled macaroni seasoned with salt and pepper. 

A BONED TURKEY. 

For this purpose you must have a fine, large, tender turkey ; and after 
it is drawn and washed and wiped dry, place it on a table, take a very 
sharp knife, with a narrow blade and point. Begin at the neck ; then go 



128 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

round to the shoulders and wings, and carefully separate the flesh from 
the bone, scraping it down as you proceed. Next, loosen the flesh from 
the breast and back and body, and lastly from the thighs. Use great care 
and patience, to avoid breaking or tearing the skin. Be careful that the 
knife always penetrates to the bone, sci^aping loose the flesh carefully. 
After you have finished your Mork with the knife, and the flesh has been 
well loosened, take a firm hold on the neck, pulling it gently, and the 
whole skeleton will come out from the flesh with the greatest ease. After 
this process the flesh will fall. With a needle and thread sew up any 
holes that may have been torn in the skin. Make a stuffing as follows: 
Take three small loaves of bread ; grate the crumb, and soak the crust in 
water. When very soft mix it with the bread crumbs, and a pound of 
butter, cut into pieces. Two bunches of sweet marjoram, same of basil, 
one bunch of parsley (mince parsley very fine), and rub to a powder the 
leaves of the marjoram and basil. Two large spoonfuls of each will not 
be too much. Chop two onions, mixing with the herbs. 

Beat fine a quarter of an ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of cloves 
and one large nutmeg. Mix spices together, adding a teaspoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of black pepper. Then mix herbs and spice well into 
the breadcrumbs, and add by degrees three or four beaten eggs, to hold the 
ingredients together. Proceed to stuff the turkey, beginning at the wings • 
next do the body, and then the thighs. Stuff very tightly, form the turkey 
into its natural shape by filling out properly the wings, breast and body. 
When you have stuffed the body, sew and skewer the bird into the usual 
shape in which they are trussed ; so that, if skilfully done, it will look as 
natural as if it had not been boned. Tie it well with tape and bake at least 
three hours, basting frequently with fresh butter. Make a gravy of the 
giblets, chopped and stewed in a little water. When done, add to it the 
gravy that is in the dish about the turkey (having first skimmed off the 
fat), and just before you remove from the fire, add two beaten yolks of 
eggs, with a glass of white wine stirred into the gravy. If turkey is to be 
eaten cold, drop tablespoonfuls of cranberry jelly (or currant) in the dish 
over and around it. A young roasting pig is very nice prepared in the 
same manner 

JELLIED TURKEY. 

With a sharp knife cut the skin down the center of the back and raise the 
flesh carefully on either side until the legs and wings are reached, when 



- . POL'LTRY. 12f> 

extra care is necessary to remo^•e the bones without cutting the skin. 
Care is again required when detaching the breast bone fi-om the skin. 
When this is done the whole body may be easily taken out entire. Restore 
the turkey as nearly as possible to its original form by filling the legs, 
wings and body with force-meat. Sew up, truss and put on to roast. 
Make little stock of the bones and giblets, to be used in the jelly. 

TO MAKE THE JELLY. 

Take one cow heel, one large shank of beef, five pounds of knucKle of 
veal, two onions, a bouquet of sweet herbs ; put all on to boil in six quarts 
of water, with salt and spices. Carefully remove the scum as it rises ; let 
it boil seven hours ; strain and set away to cool. When cold remove the 
fat; turn the jelly into the stewpan, being careful to leave the sediment; 
add the stock from the turkey bones, also the gravy which came from the 
turkey while roasting ; the whites and shells of six eggs. Set on the fire ; 
when it boils draw it aside and let it stand fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Run through a flannel jelly bag, and season with Worcester sauce. 
Place the turkey in a mould in which you have previously put a small 
quantity of the jelly to form ; pour in the rest and set away to cool. 
When required, turn out on a platter. 

GALANTINE OF TURKEY. 

Procure a fat young turkey. Bone in the same manner as directed for 
boned turkey. Turn the legs and wings inside out, and draw them inside 
the turkey. Bone a young chicken ; dredge both with salt and pepper. 
Put the chicken inside the turkey. Mix one pound of lean ham chopped 
fine one cup of fine cracker crumbs and three eggs. Season with herbs ; 
make into a roll and put inside the chicken. Pull the skin of the turkey 
together and sew up; then form the mass into an even roll. Wrap 
securely in a cloth and tie. Put the fragments of turkey and chicken in a 
soup kettle, with one small onion, one carrot sliced, few cloves, a little 
parsley thyme and sweet marjoram. Cover with cold water; let it boil 
gently a short time, and then let it simmer for at least four hours. Re- 
move from the fire and let remain in liquor until it cools ; then place on 
a large dish, put a weight on the top and let it stand all night. In the 
mornino- remove the cloth, brush the galantine with beaten egg and 



130 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

cracker crumbs, and put in a hot oven to brown. Let it stand until very 
cool. Garnish with aspic jelly. 

MARBLED TURKEY, PRESSED. 

Prepare the turkey in the usual way for pressing. Keep the dark and 
white meat separate, putting first a layer of dark meat and then light in the 
mould. Cut into slices with a sharp knife and serve with currant jelly. 

BROILED TENDERLOIN OF TURKEY. 

Cut slices from the breast of a raw turkey, sprinkle a small quantity of 
salt over the slices, place on a double broiler and broil slowly until of a light 
brown, basting veiy often with butter while cooking. When done it is as 
tender as a partridge. 

TO ROAST A GOOSE. 

Singe, remove the pin feathers, and before it is cut or drawn, wash and 
scrub thoroughly in soap suds, to open and cleanse the pores and render the 
oil more easy to be extracted. Then draw, wash and rinse the inside in 
clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff with mashed potatoes, highly seasoned 
with onions, sage, salt and pepper, or with equal parts of bread crumbs, 
chopped apples and boiled onions ; season with salt, sage and pepper. 
Sew and truss ; put on a rack in a pan and cover the breast with slices of 
fat, salt pork. 

Place it in the oven for three quarters of an hour. The pork fat is quickly 
drawn out by the heat, flows over the goose and aids in drawing out the 
oil. When considerable oil is extracted, take the pan from the oven and 
pour off all the oil. Remove the pork and dredge the goose with flour, and 
place again in oven. When the flour is browned, add a little hot water 
and baste often. Dredge with flour after basting. Cook until brown and 
tender. Make a gravy. Garnish with water cresses and serve with apple 
sauce. 

ROAST GOOSE, WITH CHESTNUT DRESSING. 

Prepare the goose as above and stuff with a dressing made as follows : 
Take some stale bread cut in dice, salt, pepper, sage and a spoonful of but- 
ter. Add to this twelve chestnuts, boiled and chopped. Stuff the goose 
and bake nice and brown, basting frequently. Very nice. — Mrs. Grantees. 



Poultry. 131 

, - CAPONS AND CHICKENS. 

Capons and chickens are prepared in the same manner for roasting or 
boihng as turkey. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

SpHt your chicken in the back, !;eason well with salt, pepper and butter. 
Put water enough in the pan to cook the chicken and have sufficient gravy. 
Baste often, turning the chicken so as to let it brown on all sides. When 
done, take up the chicken, thicken with flour and serve in a gravy dish. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Only j^oung chickens are nice broiled Split down the back ; wipe dry, 
season the chicken with salt and peppei . Have ready a gridiron placed 
over hot coals ; place your chicken inside down on this. Broil until nicely 
browned and well cooked thiough, turning, and being careful that the 
chicken does not burn. Broil with the chicken some salt pork cut in thin 
slices. After removing from fire, rub in plenty' of butter, and serve, gar- 
nished with the pork, slices of lemon and parsley. 

VIRGINIA FRIED CHICKEN. 

Dice and fry one-half pound of salt pork until it is well rendered. Pre- 
pare a young chicken ; cut into pieces for frying ; soak well in salt and 
water; wipe dry; season with pepper; dredge well with flour, and fry in 
hot lard until a rich golden color. Take up and keep warm. Pour into 
the gravy one cup of milk^it is better to use half cream if convenient ; 
thicken with little flour, adding a spoonful of butter and chopped parsley ; 
pour over the chicken as soon as it comes to a boil ; or, if preferred, serve 
without the cream gravy, with bunches of parsley fried. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Prepare as you would a turkey. Wrap the chicken in a clean, white 
cloth and put in a pot with enough water to cover it ; keep the pot closely 
covered so that no steam can escape ; boil slowly until done. If young, 
will cook in one hour ; if old, in two hours. Make a gravy from the liquor 
in which the chicken has been boiled, adding butter, pepper, salt and flour. 
Serve with pickled cauliflower. 



132 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK UOOK. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Skin the chickens (two), cut them up and boil. Take a quart of milk, 
add a little parsle}-, onion and pepper, boil and strain it, then return to the 
fire. Rub a tablespoonful of butter with a tablespoonful of flour thoroughly 
tof^ether and stir into the milk, and let it boil until the consistency of 
soft custard. Beat the yolks of two eggs and pour the milk into it, stirrmg 
all the time, then add a wine glass of sherry wine. The dressing must not 
be boiled after the eggs and wine are added, or else it will curdle. 

— Mrs. Trotter^ New York City. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Stuff the chicken as if to boil ; put in a pot, but do not quite cover with 
water ; put on two hours before dinner ; chop a small onion, some pars- 
ley, and very little mace ; rub a piece of butter size of a walnut with flour 
and stir it all in. Before dishing, beat yolks of three eggs and stir in 
carefully; cook four or five minutes. 

ANOTHER MODE TO FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Cut the joints separate. Stew in water enough to cover until the meat 
is tender. Mix with a cup of milk, a heaping teaspoonful of flour, and let 
boil up once. Season with salt and pepper, and place on a platter. If the 
flavor is liked, a little salt pork may be added, cut in thin slices, a few 
minutes before serving. For a brown fricassee pour off the larger part of 
liquor before the chicken is done, adding a piece of butter, and letting the 
chicken fry brown in the pot. 

CHICKEN A LA TARTARE. 

Split the chicken in the back, wash and wipe well with a cloth ; season 
with salt and pepper ; rub the chicken well with softened butter and roll 
on both sides in fine bread crumbs. Put in a baking pan inside down, 
and cook in a hot oven twenty-five minutes — being careful that it does not 
burn. 

Serve with Tartare sauce. 



POULTRY. 133 

CHICKEN CURRIED. 

Prepare chicken as for fricassee. When chicken has stewed a few min- 
utes stir into it while on tlie tire a mixture of half a tablespoonful of currie 
powder, braided into a tablespoonful of butter and seasoned with pepper 
and salt to taste. Let it boil a minute and serve with boiled rice on a 
separate dish. 

VOL AU VENT OF CHICKEN. 

Make rich puff paste and stand on ice all night. The next morning roll 
out a third of an inch thick. Cut out as many cakes as are required, with 
a tin circular cutter, Take^ second cutter an mch smaller, press into the 
tops of the little patties, allowing it to sink half way through the crusts ; 
brush the tops with beaten egg. Put on ice and let stand until very cold, 
then put in a hot oven and bake. When done remove the pieces marked 
out with a sharp pen knife. Scrape out the center, and fill with nicely 
cooked chicken, seasoned as you would for chicken salad. Set away until 
ready to serve. 

ESCALOPED CHICKEN. 

Boil large, tender chickens until done ; remove the skin and gristle and 
cnop the meat. Butter a large dish, put a layer of pounded crackers in the 
bottom of a dish and some bits of butter, and moisten with cream. On 
this put a layer of chicken, seasoned with white pepper, salt, grated lemon 
peel and nutmeg ; add bits of butter and a few chopped oysters ; put over 
this more of the cracker, butter and cream, and then a layer of chicken. 
Cover the top with the cracker and butter. Bake in a hot oven. 

FRITOT OF CHICKEN. 

Cut up a young chicken (raw), put it in a bowl with salt, pepper, two 
spoonfuls of olive oil, juice of a lemon ; let it stand for an hour; add two 
raw eggs, two spoons of flour ; mix all well together. Fry in lard, not too 
hot, for ten or twelve minutes. Serve with orange or tomato sauce. 

— Miss Winnifred Stuart. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Cook a pair of chickens very tender, so that the meat will leave the 
bones. Chop fine and season to taste with salt and pepper; pack in a 



J ■ r TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

jelly mould. Have the liquor boiled down and pour a cupful over the 
meat. Put a weight on the top, having a plate that fits inside the mould, 
so that your meat is nicely covered before your weight is put on. If you 
want to make chicken salad, with white meat, use the dark for pressed 
chicken. In this case you will only need a half cup of liquor. An earthen 
mould is the best. — Mrs. Parkhurst, N. y. 

BAKED CHICKEN PIE. 

To make the crust, one and one-half pounds of butter to every pound of 
flour, and three teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; chop one-half of butter 
into the prepared flour until it is well mixed in ; add a little ice-cold water, 
and work it into a stiff dough ; roll it into a thin sheet, and spread on one- 
half of the remaining butter ; fold it up butter side in, and re-roll it ; then 
spread on all the butter ; fold again as before and roll out thin ; cut it the 
size required for the pie. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered 
earthen cake pan or pudding dish with the crust. Then to a large, tender 
chicken, add almost half a pound of salt pork. Have the pork chopped 
fine and lay on one layer of pork ; pepper it, using no salt, and cover with 
pieces of chicken ; then another layer of pork, and so on until the chicken 
is used up. Have three hard-boiled eggs chopped up and added with the 
chicken. Before laying on the top crust, place a few lumps of butter 
about the top and add water enough to make enough gravy as may be de- 
sired. Cut a star or other ornament on the top and bake for an hour in 
a slow oven. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Pound the white flesh of a chicken to a pulp in a mortar, pass it through 
a sieve, again place into a mortar and work into it the yolks of four eggs, 
a little shallot and mix well. Butter a plain mould well, cut some truffles 
into shapes and arrange on the bottom and sides of mould, by making them 
stick on the butter. Then put in the pounded chicken, half fill the mould, 
tie a piece of paper over the top, and put the mould into a saucepan half 
full of hot water and steam one hour and a half. Serve hot with tomatoes. 

CHICKEN A LA REINE. 

Prepare a nice pair of chickens as for roasting. Dredge well with salt, 
pepper and flour. Cut three or four slices of pork and put half in the bot- 



POULTRY. 135 

torn of stewpan ; also two slices of carrot, one large onion cut fine. Stir 
the whole over the fire until it begins to color, and then put in the chickens, 
and lay rest of the pork over them. Put the saucepan in a hot oven for 
about twenty minutes, add white stock to half cover chickens, a bunch of 
sweet herbs ; dredge well with flour. Cover pan and return to the oven. 
Baste every few minutes and cook one hour, then turn over the chickens. 
Cook in all about two hours, and serve with HoUandaise sauce. 

FRENCH GIBLET PIE. 

Clean very nicely the giblets of four chickens. Put them into a stew- 
pan with a sliced onion and a small bouquet of sweet herbs. Add little 
water ; cover the pan closely and let them stew until the giblets are tender. 
Then take them out and strain all the gravy from the seasoning articles. 
Make a rich paste, and roll it out into two sheets. With one sheet cover 
the sides and bottom of a deep dish. Put m the giblets — mixing among 
them a small quantity of boiled potatoes sliced, the chopped yolks of some 
hard-boiled eggs, and some bits of butter rolled in flour. Pour the gravy 
over the giblets. Cover the pie with the other sheet of paste, and notch 
the edges. Bake it brown, and serve hot. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Prepare the chickens as for fricassee; put your chicken in the pot; 
place over a slow fire ; just before it comes to a boil, skim it well ; turn 
over the chicken in order that all the scum may rise, boil 
up quite hard — season with pepper and salt to your taste. A tender 
chicken does not require long boiling, therefore you must put your crust 
into the pot as soon as the chicken boils hard, remembering that the crust 
will absorb much of the Hquor and seasoning. Cut your crusts in pieces 
of equal size, but do not mould or roll them ; lay them on top of the meat 
so as to cover it ; drop bits of butter here and there. Put the lid on the 
pot closely, in order that no steam will escape — and by no means allow 
the pot to stop boiling. Boil one hour and serve. 

CHICKEN FILLETS BRAISED. 

Place half-dozen pieces of salt pork on the bottom of braising pan. On 
this put two slices of onion ; dredge the fillets well with salt, pepper and 
flour ; put pork and onion on fire, cover pan and cook slowly twenty-five 



130 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

minutes, then add a pint of good stock, bones of one chicken, cover pan 
and cook moderately one hour. Baste often with the gravy ; if necessary 
for more gravy add Httle more stock. Remove the fillets from fire and 
drain until quite dry. Cover with soft butter and dredge well with flour. 
Broil until a pretty brown and serve with Maitre d'hotel butter. 

CHICKEN FILLETS LARDED AND BREADED. 

Lard the fillets and have three strips of pork for each one ; season with 
salt and pepper to the taste ; dip in beaten egg and roll in cracker or bread 
crumbs. Fry in boiling fat. Serx^e with tartare sauce. 

CHICKEN SAUTES, WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Cut up in the ordinary way, and after being well trimmed, place in a 
saucepan with some clarified butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and 
fried of a light brown color. Pour off the butter, add three dozen par- 
boiled oysters with their liquor (previously reduced in quantity by boiling) , 
and two large gravy-spoonfuls of drawn butter sauce, a piece of glaze, and 
juice of half a lemon ; set the whole on fire to simmer five minutes, and 
dish up entree with fried croutons of bread round it. 

CHICKEN, A LA LYONNAISE. 

Cut up and fry in butter, as directed for the chickens with oysters ; when 
they are done pour off all the grease, add some Lyonnaise sauce, simmer 
the whole together on the fire for ten minutes, and serve. 



'5 



MINCED CHICKEN, AND POACHED EGGS. 

Cut up all the white meat of a roast or boiled fowl into mince or shreds, 
and put into a small stewpan, with a gravy-spoonful of Bechamel sauce; 
when about to send to table warm the mince, dish it up, and place the 
poached eggs round it with a scallop of glazed tongue or of ham, and a 
fried crouton of bread in between each egg ; pour a little white sauce round 
the entrde, and serve. 

MINCED CHICKEN, WITH MACARONI. 

Prepare the chicken or fowl in small, thin scallops, and add to them 
some Bechamel sauce ; when about to dish them up, first place some 

64 



POULTRY. • 137 

t 

macaroni (dressed with grated Parmesan cheese and a spoonful of Bec- 
hamel sauce) round the bottom of the dish in the form of a border, and put 
the mince in the center, piled up like a cone ; pour a little white sauce round 
the entrde, and serve. 

MINCE, OR SCALLOP, OF FOWL AU GRATIN. 

Cut the meat off the breast and other white parts of a roast of fowl with 
about a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce ; cut the meat into shreds or scal- 
lops ; add to it a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, a small piece of glaze, and a half gill of cream ; toss the 
whole together over the fire until well mixed, and then place the scallops 
in a dish, piled up in a dome ; cover this entirely with a coating of fried 
bread crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, in the proportion of two- 
thirds of the former with one-third of the latter ; sprinkle a little clarified 
butter over the surface, place round the entree a border of fancy-cut croutons 
of bread, or of potatoes (previously fried) , and then put into the oven for 
about ten minutes, being careful that the}' do not burn. Next pour Bec- 
hamel sauce round the entree, and serve. 

« 
GIBLET PIE, WITH FINE HERBS. 

Procure two sets of goose giblets (cleaned), scald them, then immerse 
in cold water, and drain upon a napkin. Then cut the giblets into pieces 
about two inches long. Trim them neatly, and place in a stewpan with a 
carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a garnished fagot of parsley, and 
season with pepper and a little salt ; moisten with a quart of good broth 
and a glass of sherry, and set them to stew gently over a slow fire. When 
done remove the carrot, onion, and fagot of parsley ; drain the giblets 
into a sieve, skim off all the grease from the broth, and after having put it 
back in a stewpan, thicken it with a little roux, and boil the sauce over a 
fire for fifteen minutes, stirring the whole time with a wooden spoon. Re- 
duce the sauce to about one pint, then remove it from the fire. Next cover 
the bottom of the dish with scallops of fillet of beef, season with fine herbs, 
mushrooms, parsley, a httle sweet hasil, and two shallots, adding cayenne 
pepper, and salt ; over these pour half the sauce, then fill the dish up with 
the giblets, which place in neat order ; sprinkle some fine herbs upon them, 
and pour the remainder of the sauce over the whole. Cover the pie with 
puff paste, bake it for an hour and a quarter, and send to table. 



CHAPTER X. 

GAME. 



WILD TURKEY BRAISED. 

Cover the turkey twentj^-four hours before cooking with sweet herbs 
and spice, and put in a bath of wine and vinegar. On the day it is to be 
cooked, cover it with a complete coating of sweet herbs and slices of fat 
pork, well spiced and tied firmly over the bird. To be cooked in a large 
stewpan, with a bed of pork, herbs and seasoning at the bottom before 
putting in the turkey. Pour over it a little wine, cover well and let it cool 
for several hours. When nearly done, remove the pork, etc., and brown 
in the oven, basting with the liquor from the pan. 

Baste a turkey as you would a pig, with cold lard, as it makes the meat 
crisp and brown. 

WILD TURKEY PLAIN. 

> 

Wash and wipe the turkey very carefully ; wipe the cavity with a dry, 
soft cloth before you stuff. Have a rich force-meat, bread crumbs, some 
bits of fat pork cliopped fine, pepper and salt. Moisten with milk, beat in 
an egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter ; baste with butter and water 
for the first hour ; then three or four times with the gravy ; lastly, five or 
six times with melted butter. Dredge with fiour at the last ; with butter 
when it is of a nice brown ; serve — skim the gravy, add a little hot water, 
pepper; thicken with the giblets chopped fine and browned flour ; boil up 
and pour into tureen, or put giblets, one under each wing, when the 
turkey is dished. Garnish with sliced lemon or parsle}^ — and send around 
currant jelly or cranberry sauce with it. 

HAUNCH OF VENISON BRAISED. 

Trim and remove the spine bone from a small haunch of venison ; place 
in a braising pan with four carrots, four onions, two heads of celery, a 
garnished fagot of parsley, six cloves and two blades of mace ; moisten 
with a bottle of red wine and enough broth to cover the surface of the ven- 

[138J 



GAME. , 139 

ison; after allowing it to bou over a brisk fire, place it in the oven on a 
moderate fire to continue braising very gentl)^ for about five to six hours — 
taking care to moisten the surface frcqucntl}^ with its own braise. When 
the venison is done, take it up on a deep baking dish ; put about a pint of 
its own broth under it, trim it neatly, and mask it all over with a thick 
coating of the following preparation ; Bake some slices of bread of a light 
brown color, and afterw^-ird pound and sift them ; put one pound of this 
into a basin, and add thereto half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, four 
ounces of fine sugar, and as much port wine as will moisten the whole into 
a thick paste ; use this to cover the haunch of venison, smooth it over with 
the blade of a knife, and put it into the hot closet to dry the surface of the 
crust. When about to send to the table, place the venison on a dish, pour 
over it some cherry sauce, garnish with alternate layers of prunes stewed in 
wine, and potato quenelles. 

VENISON STEAK. 

Heat the gridiron over a clear, hot fire. Butter the bars before putting 
on the steaks. Broil rapidly, turning often in order to keep in the juices. 
Have a warm dish at hand, with a spoonful of butter incited to dip your 
steaks in when done ; salt and pepper ; cover to keep warm ; then heat a 
little claret, add a few spoonfuls of currant jelly to it, and pour over steak 
just before serving. Fry steaks as 3-ou would beef, omitting the wine. 
Use onions with it; ser\'e with slices of lemon. 

BROILED VENISON STEAK. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire, and when sufficiently done pour over two 
tablespoonfuls of currant jelly melted with a piece of butter. Pepper and 
salt to season. Eat while hot, on hot plates. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Prepare partridges as you would chickens, but leave the feet on, scald- 
ing them and drawing off their skin ; skewer up the feet, crossed over the 
vent, larder the breast with boiled fat ham, roast over a moderate fire forty 
minutes, and baste with butter before you take them up. Make a gravy 
from half a pint of stock (white) and one spoonful of flour and two of but- 
ter, braided together, or serve with bread sauce. Garnish with slices of 
lemon. 



140 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

QUAILS. 

Quails are dressed like patridges, with the exception that instead of lard- 
ing you may skewer a thin slice of pork to the breast, allowing it to cover 
the whole breast. Roast over a good fire twenty minutes ; sen^e with apple 
sauce and toast. 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

Split the bird down the back ; clean nicely, wash well, and wipe very 
dry, salt and pepper them and dredge with flour ; pound down the breast 
bone so as it will lie flat, place m a buttered pan closely covered, with a 
little hot water, and roast until nearly done ; then heat some butter in a 
spider and fry each piece a nice brown Have the toast well buttered, and 
laid upon a platter. Place a quail upon each piece of toast. Thicken the 
sauce and pour over the quails. 

BROILED PIGEONS OR SQUABS. 

Split down the back and broil as you would chickens ; seasoning with 
salt, pepper, and butter. Broil slices of pork and place over each bird and 
serve. 

ROAST PIGEONS. 

Prepare and roast the same as chickens. Pigeons should not be kept 
more than six hours after being killed, as they lose their flavor by being 
kept too long. 

TO STEW PIGEONS. 

Prepare as for roasting them ; cut strips of salt pork an inch long and 
half an inch wide, roll the strips in pepper, placing a strip in the body of 
each bird, also a piece of bread of the same size ; then fill the bodies with 
bits of sour apples: lay the pigeons in a stewpan, breast down, dredge 
with flour, pour in just water enough to cover them ; season with salt and 
pepper, stew over a moderate fire one hour ; serve with the graw around 
them in a dish. 

FRIED RABBIT. 

Clean and wash well ; let it boil a few minutes ; when cold cut it into 
joints, dip into beaten egg, then roU in cracker crumbs, season with salt and 



GAME. 



141 



pepper ; fry in butter and lard mixed until a nice brown. Remove the 
pieces of rabbit, thicken the gravy with little flour, pour in a cup of milk or 
ci-eam, let it come to a boil and pour over the rabbits. Serve hot with 
onion sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

STEWED RABBIT. 

Skin and clean nicely ; cut into pieces ; put a generous piece of butter 
into a stewpan and brown the rabbit nicely ; remove the meat, add one pint 
of boiling water to the butter, one tablespoonful of flour stirred to a paste in 
cold water, salt to taste, and a little grated onion ; let it boil up and then 
put in the meat ; stew slowly till tender. Serve hot. 

ROAST RABBIT. 

After the rabbit has been thoroughly washed put it in salted water for an 
hour or more ; stuff with bread crumbs and sausage meat, season well 
with salt and pepper, and a well-beaten egg ; stuff and sew up ; then put 
in the roasting pan one onion, one carrot cut up, a few cloves, whole pep- 
per corns, and a bay leaf. Rub well with salt and pepper, and lay upon 
the dressing, putting bits of butter here and there over the rabbit. Sift 
little flour over the top, pouring in a little hot water. Coyer closely and 
roast, basting very often. When done, place on a hot platter and garnish 
with slices of lemon and wine. 

A CURRY OF HARE OR RABBIT. 

To three pounds of dressed hare, half a cupful of butter, two large onions, 
one tablespoonful of curry powder, cayenne pepper, salt, one cupful of 
wine. Put the butter and the hare (which has been cut in small pieces) 
on the fire, stir until brown ; add to it a teaspoonful of flour, the onions, 
chopped fine, curry powder, salt, cayenne, a bay leaf, and the wine ; stir 
well, cover, and let the whole simmer for about an hour. To be eaten with 
boiled rice. , — Mrs. Granlees. 

BROILED RABBIT OR SQUIRREL. 

Clean well, and put in salted water for at least one hour — then wipe dry. 
Have a hot fire, heat your gridiron, have the rabbit wiped veiy dry and 



142 ' TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

broil, turning often. When done, place on a platter with melted butter; 
season with salt and pepper, and garnish with slices of lemon. Serve when 
first cooked. 

PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 

Clean and wash thoroughly in water with a little soda thrown in it, then 
rinse in clear water several times, wipe dry and fill with a good dressing ; 
tie the legs and wings down with a cord, and stew ; cover closely and use 
plenty of butter; cook until tender, and then place in a pan, with butter, 
and brown. Serve with a tart jelly. 

DUCKS — CAN VAS-BACK — ROASTED. 

Having trussed the ducks put into each a thick piece of soft bread that 
has been soaked in port wine. Place over a quick fire and roast from three- 
quarters to an hour. Before sending to the table squeeze over each the juice 
of a lemon or orange, and serve them up ver^' hot with their own gravy 
about them. Eat them with currant jelly Have ready, also, a gravy 
made by stewing slowly in a saucepan the giblets of the ducks in butter 
rolled in flour and as little water as possible. Serve up this additional gravy 
in a boat. 

TO STEW CANVAS-BACK DUCKS. 

Place the giblets in a saucepan with the yellow rind of a lemon pared 
thin, a very little water, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a very 
little salt, and cayenne. Let them stew gently, keeping the saucepan 
covered. Half roast the ducks, saving the gravy that falls from them. Then 
cut them up, put in a large stewpan with the gravy (having first skimmed 
off the fat) and just water enough to keep them from burning. Place the 
pan over a moderate fire and let them stew gently till done. Toward the 
last (having removed the giblets) pour over the ducks the gravy from the 
small saucepan, and stir in a large glass of port wine and a glass of currant 
jelly. Send them to table as hot as possible. 

Note. — Any ducks may be cooked as above. The common wild ducks, 
teal, etc., should always be parboiled with an onion or large carrot in the 
body, to extract the fishy taste. On tasting you will find the carrot or 
onion to have imbibed that disagreeable flavor. 

Wild ducks should be a little underdone, stuffed with force-meat and 
chopped onions, and served with sharp sauce and cold slaw. 



GAME. 143 

Canvas-back ducks are in season from November to February They 
should be dressed with the heads on, and in other respects treated in the 
same manner as wild ducks. 

PLOVER. 

Clean and truss. Season with salt and pepper. Rub well with butter ; 
place in a pan and cook in a quick oven. Toast some bread, and when the 
birds are nearly done, place a piece of toast under each bird. Baste well 
with butter. Serve each bird on a piece of toast. 

WOODCOCK AND SNIPE. 

Some epicures say that the woodcock should never be drawn, but that 
they should be fastened to a small bird-spit, and should be put to roast be- 
fore a clear fire ; a slice of toast put in a pan below each bird in order to 
catch the trail ; baste them with melted butter ; lay the toast on a hot dish, 
and the birds on the toast. They require from fifteen to twenty minutes to 
roast. 

Snipe are dressed in the same manner, but require less time to cook. 

PHEASANTS. 

Roast two pheasants, and as soon as they come off the spit, cut the meat 
from the breasts by making an incision in the shape of a heart ; then cut 
the meat in small dice and mix with it two gravy-spoonfuls of reduced Bec- 
hamel sauce and two dozen mushrooms ; a couple of black truffles and a 
small piece of red tongue should be also cut into dice and mixed with the 
pheasants. With this preparation fill up the breasts of the pheasants, 
smooth them over with the blade of a knife, and then cover them with bread 
crumbs fried of a light brown color ; set the pheasants in the oven to keep 
warm, and when about to send them to the table place them in a dish side 
by side, pour round them a white ragout of cockscombs, mushrooms and 
truffles, and serve. 

PHEASANTS, WITH PUREE OF CELERY. 

Truss the pheasants for boiling, braise them in some good stock, gar- 
nished with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a garnished fagot 
of parsley ; when done, drain them upon a napkin, dish them up, and pour 



144 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

over them a white puree of celery ; garnish round with a border of potato 
croquettes and serve. 

REED BIRDS. 

Prepare very carefulty, secure them to a wooden skewer by strings, 
salt, dredge with flour and roast with a quick heat fifteen minutes. Serve 
on toast, with butter and pepper. 

Reed birds may be broiled on a gridiron, seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and serve on a dish with tomatoes. 

SNOW BIRDS. 

Stuff each bird with an oyster, place in a dish, add little boiled pork, and 
oyster liquor, season well with butter, pepper and salt. Cover the dish with 
a rich crust and bake in a moderate oven. 

GUINEA-FOWLS. 

Two of these are generally served for a dish, one of which should b 
larded, and the other covered with a layer of fat bacon ; roast them before a 
brisk fire for about forty-five minutes ; glaze and dish them up with water 
cresses ; pour some gravy under, and serve bread sauce separately, in a boat. 

VENISON PIE. 

Cut the meat into small pieces ; put them into a stewpan with one onion ; 
add salt, pepper and nutmeg, and just enough cold water to cook until ten- 
der Have ready a good pie crust ; roll and line a deep pie plate with this 
and fill with the meat ; before putting this in the pie crust roll some flakes 
of butter in flour and put over the pie ; cover with a thick layer of pastry, 
and make a hole in the center of the top crust ; bake slowly. Heat some 
port wine, into which you have thrown some cloves and mace. When the 
pie is nearly done, pour this mixture into the pie through the hole of the top 
crust ; brush the top with beaten egg ; return to the oven and bake a light 
brown. 

PARTRIDGE PIE. 

Dress nicely and divide in halves, rub with pepper, salt and flour, drop 
in a little parsley and thyme, also mushrooms, if you can get them. Put in 



GAME. 



145 



a few slices of ham and a pound of veal, cut in slices and placed in bottom 
of dish. Add the partridges and pour over them a pint of broth or gravy. 
This will be sufficient for five birds. If you find that there is not enough 
gravy, add water with a large piece of butter. Place over the dish a good 
pie crust and bake one hour. 

QUAIL PIE. 

After the quails have been cleaned, salt and pepper them and stuff with 
bread crumbs or oyster dressing, and stew a few minutes, keeping them well 
covered. Cover a dish with rich puff paste, put in your birds, sprinkle in 
some minced parsley and hard-boiled eggs cut up fine, also flakes of butter 
rolled in flour ; add the gravy which the birds were stewed in ; cover with 
paste and bake in a moderate oven about one hour. A little lemon juice is 
an addition to this pie. 

SQUIRREL PIE. 

Carefully skin and clean a pair of squirrels, cut in small pieces, put in 
a stewpan and cook, adding two slices of salt pork, with sufficient water to 
stew them about half done. Season and thicken the gravy. Put into a 
deep dish, cover with a nice pie crust and bake in a moderate oven until 
done. 

A NICE WAY OF COOKING GAME. 

Partridges, quails, plovers, pheasants, etc., are very nice stuffed with 
chestnuts — boiled, and mashed or pounded. Cover the birds with thin 
slices of cold ham ; lay in a deep dish, and when done remove the ham and 
dish the birds, pouring the gravy over them, 

SALMI OF GAME. 

For a salmi the birds must be about half roasted. Cut into joints, re- 
move all gristle and skin, also the bones ; put the bodies well bruised in a 
clean stewpan — the bones, skins and trimmings into another ; add to this 
two sliced onions, one carrot, a blade of mace, a bay l^af, a sprig of pars- 
ley, pepper, salt and a few pepper corns. Fry these a light brown in one 
ounce of butter ; then pour in a pint or more of good gravy or broth ; boil 
briskly until reduced to nearly one-half; strain, season and pour into the 
saucepan with the meat ; let the game heat very gradually in the gravy, 
but do not let them boil ; dish the birds ; arrange nicely in the middle of 



146 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

dish ; pour the sauce over it and serve with sippets of bread round the 
dish. 

A very nice sahni can be made from meats that have been already 
cooked — if not cooked too much. In this case the sauce must be made 
very rich. 

UNCLE TONY'S RECIPE FOR COOKING POSSUM. 

Go out in de woods and catch a nice fat 'possum and take 'im home, put 
on a pot o' wattah an heat it jis hke you wus gwine to clean a pig, an 
when it git hot fling in a shovel o' ashes an dip 'im in it an den you scrapes 
all de ha'r an fur off 'im and fix it jist like a little pig, 'cept you splits 'im 
open an spreads 'im out flat. Den you hangs 'im in a tree two or three 
nights an he's reddy fur de oven. When you goes to cook 'im, lay 'im flat 
on de bottom and fill 'im wid slices o' sweet 'tater and put mo' all round 
'is sides. Den you sets 'im over de coles and kivers 'im wid a hot lid 
and cook's 'im mity slo' till he dun good an tender. De flavor of de 'pos- 
sum goes inter de 'tater, an de flavor of de 'tater goes inter de 'possum, an 
it's jis good 'nuff to make you lick yo' fingers. 

Compliments Uncle Tony. 



CHAPTER XL 

SAUCKS 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter. 

Two tablespoonfuls flour. 

Warm butter in a frying pan, adding slowly the flour. To one quart of 
tomatoes (canned), five or six cloves with a large slice of onion. Cook 
about ten minutes, and as soon as flour and butter seem perfectly smooth 
and brown, stir in the tomatoes. Cook three minutes. Salt and pepper to 
suit the taste. Put this through a sieve fine enough to keep the seed from 
passing through . This sauce is delicious with fish and macaroni. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Beat half a teacup of butter m a bowl to a cream ; add yolks of two 
eggs, one by one; then juice of half a lemon, pinch of cayenne pepper, 
half teaspoonful salt ; place this in a saucepan of boiling water ; beat with 
an egg beater for a minute or two, until it begins to thicken ; then one-half 
cup of boiling water, beating all the time. When like a stiff custard, it is 
done. It will take five minutes to cook if the bowl is thin and the water 
boils all the time. — Mrs. S. R. Kane, 

WHITE SAUCE. 

One-quarter pound butter. 
One tablespoonful flour. 
One-half gill of water. 
One-half spoonful vinegar. 
A very little nutmeg. 
Salt to taste. 

Mix flour and water to a smooth paste. Put all in a saucepan ; do not 
let it boil but simmer until it thickens. 

FRENCH WHITE SAUCE. 
Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan, with two table- 

[147] 



148 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

spoonfuls of flour ; cook slowly, but do not let it brown. Stir constantly 
and add a very little water, salt and pepper to taste. When it has thickened 
remove from the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg well beaten, three table- 
spoonfuls of cream and a few drops of vinegar, which have been thorough 'y 
mixed together. — Airs. Granlces. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

To white sauce No. i add three tablespoonfuls of capers and one table- 
spoonful of their liquor. Served with boiled mutton. For fish add to this, 
pepper salt and anchovy essence. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Four dessertspoonfuls of chopped mint, two dessertspoonfuls of sugar, 
and half a pint of vinegar. Use only young, fresh leaves, pick them all off 
the stalk, mince very fine and pour over them the sugar and vinegar. 
Make two or three hours before serving. Add more sugar if liked. 

MINT SAUCE WITH OIL. 

Chop fine one bunch of choice mint ; mix with a tablespoonful of white 
sugar, a pinch of salt and pepper each, six tablespoonfuls of strong vinegar 
with half a teaspoonful of olive oil. Stir well and serve with roast lamb, 
veal or pork. —Mrs. Granlees. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Work two tablespoonfuls of flour and one-half cup of butter until light ; 
to this add gradually one-half pint of boiling water ; stir constantly until it 
comes to a boil. Take from the fire immediately and serve. A large 
tablespoonful of lemon juice and a pinch of cayenne may be added if you 
desire it. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

To butter sauce, stir in eight tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovy and 
two of lemon juice. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

To the " white sauce " (already given), add square-cut pieces of boiled 
or canned lobster, three tablespoonfuls of cream, cayenne to taste. One 
tablespoonful of anchovy sauce improves this. 



SAUCES. 149 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Make a nice drawn butter with half cupful butter, one tablespoonful 
flour, one cupful milk, a little salt ; when boiled and thickened, add 
oysters — as many as you please. Let cook until the oysters curl at the 
edges. Serve with boiled turkey or chicken pie. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Make drawn butter same as for oyster sauce, add four heads of celery 
that have been boiled in salted water until tender and chopped very fine. 
Add mace ; salt and pepper to taste, 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

Use one tablespoonful of butter. Mix thoroughly with same of flour ; 
place on the fire in a saucepan and stir constantly until the ingredients are 
an amber brown. Pour into this half a pint of boiling gravy, the liquor 
in which pieces of lean meat have been boiled, it being quite rich. Add 
this gravy slowly and stir all the time. As soon as it boils up season with 
pepper and salt, then strain. To this add half a cupful of champagne and 
erve. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

Chop three olives, one gherkin and a tablespoonful of capers. Add 
them to one-half pint of mayonnaise dressing ; thin with a tablespoonful 
of Tarragon vinegar. This is served with cold meats or fish. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

One pint of milk, three-fourths of a pound of dry bread crumbs, one 
onion one ounce of butter, mace, salt and cayenne to taste. Cut up the 
onion and boil tender in the milk ; strain the milk over the bread crumbs ; 
cover and let stand long enough to soak up milk, then beat thoroughly ; 
add salt, butter, pepper (cayenne) and mace. Boil up and serve. If too 
thick, thin with cream after the sauce is made. Serve with roast turkey, 
fowl, game, etc. Add oysters for oyster sauce. 



150 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

To one cup of melted butter, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the 
juice of one lemon, salt and a small pinch of cayenne. Let this simmer 
on the back of the stove, but not boil. 

DRAWN-BUTTER SAUCE. 

To one-half cup of butter, add a very little flour (not a large spoon quite 
full), with two or three tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Shake the sauce- 
pan continually over the fire ; allow it to simmer, but not boil, until it 
thickens. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Mix two ounces of butter and one teaspoonful of flour smoothly together ; 
put it into a lined saucepan, and pour in one-third pint of milk ; keep 
stirring it one way over a brisk fire ; let it boil gently for a minute or two ; 
add half a pint of mushrooms to the melted butter; let them simmer 
gently for about ten minutes and season to taste. 

NASTURTIUM SAUCE. 

Make a drawn butter (about one teacupful), add to it half a cup of 
pickled nasturtiums ; season with salt and pepper. Let them simmer 
gently and then serve. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Peel and boil until tender four large onions. Drain and chop them very 
fine ; add a cup of new milk, a small lump of butter, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Heat, but do not boil, and serve. 

DUTCH SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Half a teaspoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, same of water, yolks of two eggs, salt to taste. Put all on 
together, keep stirring until it thickens, don't let it boil or it will curdle. 
Good for salads made of hard-boiled egg or cold fish. 



SAUCES. 151 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

To four tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish put one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, one half teaspoonful of pepper, two of mixed 
mustard and vinegar, three or four tablespoonfuls of cream. When served 
with hot beef put in a jar, which jar place in a saucepan of boiling water ; 
cook slowly 5 do not let the mixture boil or it will curdle. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce and add to it hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. This 
is nice with fish. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

After washing a bunch of parsley boil for five minutes in salt and water. 
Drain well and cut the leaves from the stalks and chop them fine. Have 
ready some melted butter and stir the parsley into it. A pinch of cayenne 
is an addition. Serve with boiled fowls and fish. 

SAUCE ELEGANTE. 

Make a " drawn-butter sauce " and add to it one teaspoonful of mustard, 
one tablespoonful of good catsup, one-fourth teacup of vinegar, one-fourth 
teacup of port wine, a bunch of parsley chopped fine, two pickled cucum- 
bers chopped fine. After mixing ingredients, boil and pour it hot over the 
meat. This is excellent with stewed meats. 

SAUCE FOR CALF'S HEAD. 

Add to "drawn-butter sauce" the brains mashed fine, a teaspoonful of 
powdered sage, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt. To this add one glass 
of Madeira wine. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

To a "drawn-butter sauce" (about one-half pint), add one pint of 
shrimps cut in small pieces, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful 
of anchovy sauce. Let this simmer for a few minutes — serve hot. This is 
nice for salmon or turbot. 
65 



162 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

WINE SAUCE FOR MEAlS. 

To three-fourths of a pound of butter, add one and a half pints of jelly, 
three-founhs cupful of sugar (brown is the best), and a tablespoonful of 
ground allspice, one quart of port wine ; stew until thick. This is very 
nice v/ith venison— 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes. 
Eight onions. 
Six peppers. 

Eight coffee-cups vinegar. . 
Eight tablespconfuls sugar. 
Eight tablespoonfuls of salt. 
One tablespoonful cinnamon. 
One tablespoonful allspice. 
One tablespoonful cloves. 
One tablespoonful nutmeg. 

Boil all together well, and seal while hot. Superior to tomato catsup. 

— Mrs. James Short. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Nine large ripe tomatoes (peeled) . 

Two small green peppers. 

Three onions. 

Two cups vinegar. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar. 

One tablespoonful salt. 

Ginger, mustard, cloves and nutmeg to taste. Boil twenty minutes. 

— Mrs. Charles Lester- 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twelve large tomatoes. 

Three large green peppers. 

Half cup sugar. 

One tablespoonful salt. 

Half tablespoonful black pepper. 

Three large onions. 

One teacup vinegar, 

Chop all fine and cook over a slow fire for three hours. 



SAUCES. 153 

SAUCE BORDELAISE. 

Take one onion, not too small, chopped very fine and browned in fat or 
butter ; add to this a cup of strong gravy (beef) and a cup of claret or 
white wine. Season highly with pepper, salt, and a little parsley chopped 
ver).' fine Allow this to simmer and then thicken with a little browned 
flour. This is very nice with boiled fish. 

CREAM BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Put into a stewpan six ounces of fresh, sweet butter, add four ounces of 
sifted flour, two or three pepper corns, salt, and a very little nutmeg; 
knead the whole well together, then cut an onion and a carrot into rather 
thin slices, throw them into the stewpan, and also a bouquet of parsley, 
thyme, and half a bay leaf tied with a twine. Moisten these with a quart 
of white broth and almost one pint of rich cream ; having stirred the sauce 
over the fire for about one-half hour pass it through a sieve into a bowl. 

GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Cut six green gherkins into very thin slices ; place them in a small stew- 
pan with a little Tarragon vinegar and pepper. Let these simmer briskly 
for a few minutes on the fire, then add a small quantity of white sauce and 
a bit of veal. Stir the sauce until it boils, then set aside until it clears itself. 
Skim and pour it into a dish for use. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Boil some soup stock with a few slices of lemon, a very little sugar and 
grated nutmeg. Add to this some chopped parsley, a few nasturtiums, 
and a very small taste of pepper. Thicken with a little flour or the yolks 
of eggs. This is nice with stewed poultry. 

WILD-FOWL SAUCE. 

The following exquisite sauce is applicable to all wild fowl : Take one 
saltspoon of salt, half to two-thirds saltspoon of cayenne, one dessert- 
spoonful of lemon juice, one dessertspoonful of powdered sugar, two 



154 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

dessertspoonfuls of Han^ey sauce, three dessertspoons of port wine, well 
mixed and heated; score the bird and pour the sauce over it. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

Cut up about half an ounce of onions and fry in a couple of spoonfuls 
of cood vinegar. Cook dry, but great care must be used to see that it does 
not'brown too much or scorch. Add to this three gills of brown sauce a 
half cup of broth, then put in one tablespoonful of cucumber and a little 
less of parsley, both chopped and cooked slowly twenty minutes. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Put one ounce of butter into a pan. Stir into it one ounce of flour, add 
to it half a pint of white stock or broth. Stir constantly and as soon as it 
boils remove from the fire ; stir into it the yolks of four eggs well beaten ; 
use o-reat care or the hot liquid will cook the eggs. Season with salt and 
pepper to suit the taste. Return the pan to the fire, stirring constantly and 
allowino- the mixture to reach boiling point, when it must be removed at 
once, as" if allowed to boil the eggs will curdle. Add a piece of butter the 

size of an egg. 

HERRING SAUCE. 

Chop a few herring fine, add to it some soup stock, a spoonful of flour 
browned in hot fat, also an onion chopped very fine. (The herring should 
be washed in cold water before adding to the stock.) Place on the fire to 
boil a few minutes, then add a little vinegar and sugar; strain the sauce 
through a fine sieve and add a few capers and one wineglass of white wine. 
When it comes to a boil, thicken with the yolk of two eggs. 

SAUCE FOR BARBECUES. 

Mix together one-half pound of fresh butter, one tablespoonful of mus- 
tard, half'^a teaspoonful of red pepper, the same of black pepper, salt to suit 
the taste, and very strong vinegar. When the meat has become heated 
through, begin to baste, and baste very often until the meat is sufficiently 
cooked.' If the sauce does not seem to be ver}^ hot, add another pinch of 
red pepper. 



CHAPTER XII. 

SALADS 



SALAD DRESSING. 



Yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. 



Half bottle best olive oil. 

Stir together until it thickens. Add one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoon- 
ful pepper, one cup mvxed mustard. When well mixed, add one-half cup 



of vinegar. 



SALAD DRESSING. 



One egg. 

Two tablespoonfuls olive oil or melted butter. 
One and one-half teaspoonfuls mustard. 
. Three teaspoonfuls salt. 
A verj' little white pepper. 
Two tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

Mix the oil with the yolk gradually ; slowly add the other ingredients, 
stirring in last the white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth. 



A ROYAL SALAD DRESSING. 

Boil three eggs hard and let them get cold. Take the yolks and mix 
with two or tlirec tablespoonfuls of rich cream. Then mix together one 
tablespoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
salt and a little black pepper. Add these to the cream and yolks, and 
lastly add gently vinegar enough to make it about as -thick as cream. Pour 
over the lettuce (or other raw salad) and garnish with the whites of the eggs, 
sliced in rings. Cream is, in my opinion, better than olive oil for salads. 
These proportions can be increased to meet needs. The yolks and cream 
must be mixed smooth and free from lumps. To secure this boil the eggs 
until they are mealy — turning them dark does not matter, so they crumble. 
A little anchovy added is liked by some. — Mrs. Sallie Gotten, North Carolina. 

[155] 



156 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, one 
dessertspoonful olive oil, one teaspoonful of salt, one dessertspoonful of 
mixed mustard. 

Mash all fine ; mix thoroughly ; then add three tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar. A little dust of cayenne pepper adds to the flavor. 

— Mrs, Horace Fletcher. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Five tablespoonfuls oil. 
Half pint strong vinegar. 
Two teaspoonfuls mustard. 
One teaspoonful salt. 
Half teaspoonful pepper. 
A little cayenne. 
Four eggs well beaten. 

Put vinegar on the stove in a kettle of hot water and let it come to a 
scald ; add the rest of the ingredients and stir till it thickens. 

* 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

One teaspoonful mustard. 

One teaspoonful powdered sugar. 

Half teaspoonful salt. 

One-quarter saltspoonful cayenne. 

Yolks of two eggs. 

One pint olive oil. 

Two tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

Two tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

Mix the first four ingredients in a small bowl ; add the eggs ; stir well 
with a wooden spoon. Add the oil, a few drops at a time, stirring until 
it thickens. When the dressing is thick, thin it with a little lemon, then 
add oil and lemon alternately, and lastly the vinegar. When ready to 
serve, add half a cup of whipped cream if desired. 

Mix half of the dressing with the salad, and spread the remainder over 
the top. —Mrs, B. A. B,, Toronto, Canada. 



SALADS. 157 

A SIMPLE MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolk of one raw egg, one level teaspoonful of dry mustard, one salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, a small pinch of cayenne pepper, juice of half a 
lemon. Mix these ingredients with a wooden spoon until they have a 
creamy white look, then add drop by drop three gills of salad oil, stirring 
constantly. If it thickens too fast add a little of the juice of the second 
half of lemon, then add gradually four tablespoonfuls of strong vinegar. 
Keep cool until used. This is easily made and very nice. 

CELERY DRESSING. 

Two eggs beaten light. 
Lump butter size of egg. 
One teaspoonful of made mustard. 
One teacup vinegar. 
One saltspoonful salt 
One cup fresh nice cream. 

Put ingredients on the fire and boil until proper consistency. Serve 
when cold. —Mrs. B. B. V. 

CABBAGE DRESSING. 

Two eggs. 

Two small teaspoonfuls of mustard. 

Two teaspoonfuls flour. 

Piece of butter size of an egg. 

Vinegar, salt and pepper. 

When thoroughly mixed, pour over the cabbage when hot, 

—Mrs. J. Cottrill. 

LETTUCE DRESSING. 

* One raw egg. 
One saltspoonful of salt. 
Half teaspoonful mustard. 
A little sugar. 
A little cayenne. 
One-quarter teacup olive oil. 
One tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Mix thoroughly and do not put on the lettuce until ready to serve. 



158 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. 

One egg beaten light, one small teaspoonful of mustard, one table- 
spoonful vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Cook over hot water till thick, then put into a bowl and stir in half a 
bowlful of whipped cream. Set on ice. — Mrs. E. A. Boice. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Choose a medium-sized fowl, boil it until tender and let it remain until 
cold. Then remove all skin, bones and gristle; cut up the meat, do not 
chop it. To the cut meat add a little salt and the white part of a bunch of 
celery. Toss up the ingredients with a fork until light, then set away on 
ice or in a cool place until the dressing is made. For the dressing use an 
ordinary egg beater. Ingredients for dressing are : yolks of three eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful of dry inustard, one-half spoonful of sugar, a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, one-half spoonful of salt, one teacup best olive oil, juice 
of one large lemon. Mix mustard, sugar, pepper, and salt with the yolks of 
the eggs, then add oil, one tablespoonful at a time ;• just before the last table- 
spoonful of oil, beat in the lemon juice ; it will then turn white and creamy. 
Beat it thoroughly and add the remaining oil, beating well again. Spread 
dressing over the chicken and celer}^ If wished, chopped capers and 
olives can be added to the salad. If put on ice this dressing can be made 
some hours before using. — Mrs. E. A. Boice. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two large fowls. 

Yolks of twelve eggs. 

Half pint sweet oil. 

Half pint vinegar. » 

One gill of mixed mustard. 

One small teaspoonful cayenne. 

Salt to taste. 

Add two large heads of choice celery, or three small ones. After dress- 
ing is mixed thoroughly, and stirred until very smooth, pour over the 
fowls and celery, which have been previously minced fine. Do not add 
the dressing until ready to serve. 



SALADS. 159 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil one nice chicken. When thoroughly done chop very fine. BoU 
twelve eggs. Rub the yolks to a smooth paste. Add to this two table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, one spoonful of all kinds of sauces, one tea- 
spoonful of red pepper and one of black, one large onion chopped fine, 
one teacup of mashed Irish potato made soft with vinegar. Skim off water 
in which the chicken was boiled, add one cup of celery chopped fine. Put 
on ice in a flat pan so as to cut into squares. Serve with water cresses. 

— Mrs. John Durst. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 
One chicken. 

One cabbage, chopped very fine. 

Two eggs. 

Half pint vinegar. 

One teaspoonful mustard. 

Half teaspoonful pepper. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar. 

One tablespoonful butter. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Stir salt, pepper, sugar, eggs, mustard and butter together; pour into 
boiling vinegar, After having minced the nice parts of the fowl, add the 
chopped cabbage. Then pour dressing over the whole. Dress the top 
with whites and yolks of hard-boiled eggs. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Boil two lobsters. When perfectly cold take out the meat, cut in small 
squares and put in a cold place until wanted. Make half a pint of mayon- 
naise dressing, mix well with the lobster and put in the dish. Garnish 
the dish with lettuce leaves. Mash coral fine and sprinkle over the whole 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

The meat of two lobsters, three-quarters the same bulk of celery, yolks 
of five eggs, two teaspoonfuls of mustard, one teaspoonful pepper, half 
teaspoonful salt, one-third cupful vinegar. One small bottle of sweet oil, 
stirred gradually into the egg, a few drops at a time. After it begins to 
thicken, add the other ingredients, well mixed in the vinegar. 



160 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

LOBSTER A LA TARTARE. 

If you procure fresh lobsters, boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Cut into 
small square pieces and place in a bowl. Make half a pint of tartare sauce 
and pour over the lobster. Garnish the dish with lettuce leaves. Do not 
mix until about ready to serve. — Mrs. L. B., Canada, 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

To one can of shrimps, well washed and broken, add six small sticks of 
celery. The ma5fonnaise sauce is made of the raw yolks of two eggs, 
well beaten ; a teaspoonful of salt and half as much mustard powder, 
worked well into the egg. Add a pint of good oil, pouring in a few drops 
at a time ; when the sauce is very stiff, add a small pinch of cayenne pep- 
per and the juice of one lemon ; pour over salad just before serving. 

—Mrs. D. L. Wells. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Remove the bone and parts of the skin from one can of salmon. Mince 
very fine, and add to it one pint of finely chopped cabbage, one cupful of 
chopped pickle, three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. To one pint of boil- 
ing vinegar add salt, pepper, sugar and mustard to taste. Pour this over 
the salmon and cabbage and garnish the dish with curled parsley or lettuce 
leaves. 

MAYONNAISE OF SALMON. 

To one can of salmon minced fine mix a dressing made as follows : 
Yolk of one raw egg, spoonful of mustard, four tablespoonfuls of oil, one 
tablespoonful vinegar, pinch of salt, very little cayenne pepper. Put mus- 
tard in with the egg, stir one way, and add oil drop by drop. Then beat 
until creamy. When stiff add the vinegar, then pepper, and lastly salt. 
Garnish the dish with parsley or celery tops. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil and mash six large potatoes. Mash with butter, salt, and a little 
milk, and beat until light. Add seven tablespoonfuls of chopped celery, 
six tablespoonfuls of cucumber pickle, four chopped onions. Boil five eggs 
hard and mash the yolks with one tablespoonful of mixed mustard with a 



SALADS. 



161 



little vinegar, one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half pint of vinegar, pepper 
and salt to taste. Cut up the whites of the eggs and mix all well together ; 
add a little more vinegar if too stiff. — Mrs. R., Kentucky, 

POTATO SALAD. 

One quart mashed potato. 

One pint cabbage, chopped fine. 

Two or three apples, scraped. 

One good-sized onion, chopped fine. 

One tablespoonful mustard. 

Two teaspoonfuls pepper. 

One cup melted butter. 

Eight eggs (six will do), yolks mashed with butter, whites chopped fine, 
part mixed with salad and rest spread over the top when made. Add 
enough vinegar to make a pleasant acid, and salt and sugar to taste. 

— Mrs. Maria L . Stuart. 
LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 

Half pint of cream. 

Half pint of sherry. 

Half cup of butter. 

Three eggs. 

Salt, white pepper, cayenne to taste. Let cream come to a boil, then 
stir in the eggs well beaten ; add salt and pepper to taste — then sherry. 
Have the lobster cut into small pieces ; put into sauce ; let come to a boil 
and serve. —Mrs. A. F., New Tork. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Pare the cucumbers rather thickly and lay them in ice water tor 
about an hour and a half. After wiping them very dry, slice very thin, 
adding an onion, which must be sliced also. Make a salty water and allow 
the cucumber and onion to remain in this for another hour. After squeezing 
every drop of water from them place in a salad bowl — sprinkle pepper and 
bits of parsley over the whole. Cover with vinegar and set on ice until 

ready for use. 

WHOLE TOMATO SALAD. 

Select fine, ripe tomatoes of equal size, scald and skim and then set on 
ice until time for serving. Previous to the time for using, line a salad dish 



162 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

with lettuce leaves and pile tomatoes in the center, forming a mound. 
Serve on individual dishes with mayonnaise dressing made by previous 
recipe. This is very nice. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Six fresh tomatoes. 
Two cucumbers. 
One onion. 
One head of celery. 
Three hard-boiled eggs. 

Slice thin, and place by layers in a salad bowl,omitting the onion if not 
liked ; add a dash of cayenne pepper, salt to taste and vinegar. 

IMPERIAL SALAD. 

One-half head cabbage. 
Two cucumbers. 
Two small onions. 
Two heads crisp lettuce. 
Three small gherkins. 

Salt, pepper and cayenne to taste. Chop all together, and cover with 
mayonnaise dressing. Very nice. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

First soak six herrings in water for twenty-four hours ; skin and take 
out all bones, and cut them up fine. To this add some anchovies and 
about half pound of smoked salmon (lobster may be used instead of salmon 
if desired), chopped fine. Cold roast turkey, chicken or veal may be 
added and is an improvement. Add to the above a liberal amount of 
pickled cucumbers, capers and olives ; make a rich mayonnaise dressing 
and pour over all. Line a salad bowl with fresh lettuce leaves, fill in the 
salad and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. —Mrs. Charles A. Wilson, N. C. 

YY.PiL. SALAD. 

Boil a veal cutlet with a little salt until tender; pick to pieces. Make 
a dressing of three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful sugar, one- 



SALADS. 163 

half saltspoonful salt, a little cayenne and made mustard ; put this on the 
fire and let come to a boil, then pour gradually over the yolks of two well- 
beaten eggs ; let this cook until thick, stirring all the time ; when cool, 
beat in two tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix half of the dressing with the 
veal and put in a cool place. Have ready some nice lettuce torn in shreds, 
and jv;st before serving mix with the veal, and put in a dish with some 
nice, crisp lettuce leaves. Pour over the salad the remainder of the dress- 
ing. Delicious. —Mrs. E. H. Boice, 

HERRING SALAD (GERMAN). 

Four pounds of roasted veal ; boil five large beets, let them get cold ; 
boil six good-sized potatoes, allow them to get cold. One dozen German 
herrings, put them in cold water for twelve hours. These ingredients to 
be prepared the day before. Cut veal into small pieces, do not hash it; 
same with beets, potatoes and herrings. Mix well, having sliced up a 
hard apple and one small onion, to be put into the salad; season to taste 
with salt and pepper, serve with oil and vinegar ; decorate with hard-boiled 
eggs, beets and potatoes. — Mrs. Langston. 

WATER CRESSES. 

.Wash the clusters carefully and put aside all leaves that are discolored. 
Place in a salad bowl and pour over it a French dressing, which has had 
a very little bit of toasted herring, picked into small pieces, added to it. 
Only enough to give it a flavor. This dressing is also very nice for field 
lettuce. — Mrs. A. FaircMld^ New York, 

FISH SALAD. 

Take a pound of cold boiled lake trout; shred into pieces an inch in 
length. Make a dressing of the yolks of three eggs, rubbed to a smooth 
paste with salad oil ; add one teaspoonful of salt, one of pepper, one table- 
spoonful of made mustard, one of sugar, and lastly six tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar. Beat the mixture until light, and just before pouring it over the 
fish, stir in lightly the frothed white of a raw egg. Put in your dish with 
SIX tablespoonfuls of vinegar and half the dressing stirred in with it; 
spread the remaming over the top, and lay blanched lettuce leaves around 
the edges, to be eaten with it —Mrs. S. S. Roddis. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

VKGKTABLBS. 



Have your vegetables fresh as possible. Gather them early, as they are 
so much better with the dew on them. If in the habit of gettmg your veg- 
etables from the market, do so as early as convenient in the morning, pick, 
wash, and put in cold water until ready for use. Fresh vegetables are 
more easily cooked than those that have been gathered for some time. 
Vegetables are much more easily cooked in soft water than in hard ; they 
should always be put on in hot water, but not boiling. If put to cook in 
cold water their flavor will be lost, owing to the slow heating process which 
goes on ; while on the other hand too rapid heating toughens the vegeta- 
bles. Too much cooking will destroy vegetables ; they should never be 
put on too early, but each in their time. When vegetables show that they 
have been nearly cooked tender, they should be seasoned with salt. Never 
let them stand after coming off the fire. Put them at once into a colander, 
well drained, over a pot of boiling water until needed. Then put on a hot 
dish and pour fresh butter over them. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes well and allow them to stand in water for at least one 
hour and a half, to remove the black liquor with which they are impreg- 
nated and a brackish taste they would otherwise have. Never pare the 
potatoes before boiling, as they lose the starch by so doing and are made 
insipid. Put them into a kettle of cold water with a. little salt, cover closely 
and boil rapidly, using no more water than will just cover them, as they 
produce a considerable quantity of fluid themselves while boiling, and too 
much water will make them heavy. Just as soon as they are done, in- 
stantly pour off the water, set them back on the stove, and remove the 
cover of the saucepan till the steam has evaporated. They will then be 
delicious and mealy. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Slice raw potatoes thin ; place in a pudding dish ; after each layer, pep- 
per, salt and butter; \lV;en the dish is full, pour in a cup of cream or milk; 

[1G4] 



VEGETABLES. 



165 



bake nearly an hour a nice brown. Dredge flour over each layer except 
the top one. Butter the dish well before using. —Mrs. E. R Persons. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select large potatoes and see that theyhave no bad spots; wash them 
and bake in a quick oven until soft. To be eaten with butter and salt. 
This is the most wholesome way of cooking potatoes, and especially nice 
for invalids. 

HOW TO COOK NEW POTATOES. 

After scraping them well, boil for twenty-five or thirty minutes in salted 
water. Drain them well and allow them to dry for a few minutes — then 
pour melted butter over them and serve. A little chopped parsley is an 
addition. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Peel and slice as thin as possible with a very sharp knife or a slaw 
cutter. Drain them and dr}' in a cloth. Have lard boiling and drop in a 
few at a time. Salt as you take out and lay them on a blotting pad to 
absorb the grease. These are nice for lunch or picnics. 

— Airs, yohn Fletcher. 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Boil the potatoes until tender, then peel and cut into slices ; put them 
into a stewpan with fresh butter, parsley and cives chopped up ; salt, pep- 
per and a very little vinegar; warm them up and serve. Oil may be used 
in place of butter. If the potatoes are very small they need not be sliced. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes or thin slices ; put them into a shal- 
low pan covered with milk, and cook until the potatoes have absorbed 
nearly all the milk ; to one pint of potatoes add a tablespoonful of butter, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper and a little chopped 

parsley. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil until tender, drain dry, season with salt, and mash until not a lump 
remains • then add enough hot milk to make the right consistency, and a 



166 TWENTIETH , CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

piece of butter. Mix lightly with a fork, heap in a dish and serve imme- 
diately. Do not place in an oven unless unavoidable, and do not smooth 
over with a knife or spoon. The delicacy of mashed potatoes is their 
lightness. —E. J. M. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut the potatoes in any way desired. Drain and dry in a cloth. 
Have lard boiling hot and fry them to a very light brown • salt as you 
take out, and drain well of all grease. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Boil potatoes and allow them to get cold. To one-half pound of the 
sliced potato, two ounces of onion, a heaping teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, butter the size of an egg. Put the butter in a saucepan, and when 
hot throw in the onion (minced) and fry to a light color ; add the pota- 
toes ; stir until hot and light brown; then mix the parsley and serve hot. 

KENTUCKY POTATOES. 

Pare and slice thin, put in a pan, with bits of salt pork among them, 
and season with salt and pepper. Pour over them one cup each of sweet 
milk and boiling water, and bake in a hot oven. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

One cup of cold mashed potato, mix with one egg, shape and cook in 
boihng lard. 

POTATOES A LA PROVENCALE. 

Mash and pass through a sieve two pounds of potatoes, season with 
pepper and salt. Grate two ounces of Swiss cheese, pound it with enough 
butter to make a paste, add a gill of milk and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley; put this in a sautd pan, add the potatoes, mix all well together and 
stir until the mixture is a pale brown Serve as a pyramid. 

TIMBALE OF POTATOES. 

Boil, drain, wash and pass through, a fine sieve two quarts of Irish pota- 
toes, place in a saucepan with six ounces of butter, two whole eggs, the 



, VEGETABLES. 167 

yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little sugar ; have a plain two- 
quart copper timbale mould, well buttered, and sprinkled with fresh bread- 
crumbs, and bits of butter on top ; bake for half an hour in a moderately 
hot oven ; before serving pass the blade of a knife between the potatoes 
and the mould, turn over carefully, and in a few minutes take the mould 
off and serve. 

POTATOES A L'ANGLAISE. 

Boil some potatoes very dry ; mash until perfectly smooth, season well 
with salt and pepper, warm them with an ounce of butter to every pound 
of potatoes, and a few spoonfuls of thick cream ; let them cool a little ; roll 
into balls, sprinkle over them some crushed vermicelli or macaroni, and 
fry them a light brown, 

QUIRLED POTATOES. 

Peel, boil, mash, and season a few mashed potatoes, then put them into 
a colander, pressing them through into the dish you wish to serve them in ; 
set in the oven and brown. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Two pounds of mashed potatoes, two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
little salt, two pounds of flour, and milk enough to make a batter, one-half 
cup of yeast; set it to rise and when light bake in cakes size of a muffin. 

SWEET POTATOES SLICED. 

Steam until done, remove the skin carefully, cut them in longitudinal 
slices quarter of inch thick, and pour over each slice, as it is put into the 
dish, a sj-rup made of butter and sugar, equal parts and boiled together. 

—Mrs. A. F. Aikens. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and dry the potatoes, place them in the oven and bake until done. 
Very nice with roast pork or beef. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Parboil the potatoes until nearly done. Slice and sprinkle with sugar. 
Fry in hot fat and send to the table hot. 



168 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

TOMATOES A LA CREME. 

Peel and slice fine ripe tomatoes, one quart of fresh ones or a pound 
can, stew until perfectly smooth, season with salt and pepper, and add a 
piece of butter the size of an egg ; just before taking from the fire, stir in 
one cup of cream, with a tablespoonful of flour stirred smooth in a part 
of it; do not let it boil after the flour is put in. Have ready in a dish 
pieces of toast, pour the tomatoes over this and serve. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Select nice tomatoes good ripe, slice and cover a dish with them. Have 
ready some grated bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, butter and a 
very little sugar. Place alternate layers of the tomatoes and bread crumbs, 
having a layer of the crumbs on top. Bake for about one hour and a 
half. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Wash but do not peel them. Cut each in two parts (around the tomato) 
and take out the pulp and seeds. To six tomatoes, take half a pint of 
bread crumbs, one large onion finely chopped, one ounce of butter, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Fill the cells of each piece with this dressing ; 
put two halves together and tie with a thread. Put them in a pan with an 
ounce of butter and gill of water, and set them in a moderate oven ; bake 
them until they are soft. Cut off the threads and serve on a hot dish. 

— Mrs. Albert Conro. 
STEWED TOMATOES. 

After skinning the tomatoes cut them up and put in a stewpan and cook 
rather slowly for a few minutes. Season with salt, pepper and butter; 
sugar can be added if liked, also a small bit of onion, which gives a very 
nice flavor. Some prefer the stewed tomatoes thickened with bread 
crumbs, which, when used, must be added a short while before removing 
from the fire. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Peel the tomatoes by pouring hot water over them, cut in slices about 
one-half inch thick, dip each slice into white flour and into beaten eggs, 
sprinkle salt and pepper over each slice and fry in hot lard. These make 
a very pretty garnish. 



VEGETABLES. 169 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Take large, round tomatoes, wash and wipe dry, and put them on a 
gridiron over Hvely coals, the stem side down. When brown, turn them 
and let them cook till quite hot through. Place them on a hot dish and 
send quickly to the table, when each one may season for himself with salt, 
pepper and butter. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

After taking off the outer skin let them soak in cold water for a couple 
of hours, or longer if you like them mild ; let them be cooked in boiling 
water, which should be pretty strongly salted ; drain off the water as soon 
as they are almost done, then let them simmer in milk until quite tender ; 
add a good bit of butter, pepper and salt. —Mrs. P. L. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Wash and skin very large onions ; parboil half an hour ; drain, push out 
the hearts, chopping them fine with a Httle bacon, add bread crumbs, 
season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a little cream. Fill the 
onions with this, put into a dripping pan with very little water, and cook 
until tender in a slow oven, basting often with melted butter. 

STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS. 

Parboil a Spanish onion, take out the center and fill with force-meat, 
cover with a thin slice of sweet, fat pork, sprinkle with a teaspoonful of 
salt and the same of sugar, add four teaspoonfuls of stock, cover closely 
and cook over a good fire. When tne onion is done remove the pork, 
strain and skim the gravy and pour it over and serve. The best force-meat 
is made of cold chicken, a shred of ham, a little chopped parsley, half a 
dozen mushrooms, all chopped well and mixed with a tablespoonful of 
butter, pepper and salt. Delicious. —Mrs E. A. B. 

STEWED ONIONS. 

Select small ones of the same size. Skin and throw into cold water. 
After an hour put on to boil ; when half done drain, again cover with water. 
When tender turn off the water and add a cup of milk, a piece of butter, 
and season with pepper and salt. 



170 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Peel and slice the onions in cold water, drain and then fry in boiling fat 
or butter. Stir constantly to prevent burning and do not allow them to get 
too brown. Season to taste and serve hot. 

CORN TO BOIL. 

Always select young and tender corn for boiling, and drop into boiling 
water which has been a little salted ; boil until done, which will require 
about twenty-live or thirty minutes. Some prefer it served on the cob, 
and it is also very nice cut off and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Select young corn ; draw a sharp knife through each row lengthwise and 
scrape out the pulp. To a pint of the pulp, add a quart of milk, three 
beaten eggs and a lump of butter. Put into a moderately hot oven and 
stir until it begins to thicken ; then add salt to season and bake until 
lightly browned. Time — about one hour and a half in a moderate oven. 

GREEN-CORN PUDDING. 

Grate the corn from the cob, and add to it enough milk to make it 
rather thin ; add butter, salt, pepper and a very little sugar Bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Six ears of new corn ; grate and scrape them well ; beat one egg very 
light; add one tablespoonful of flour, one of sweet cream, pepper and salt 
to taste. Mix well together. Make into small pats the size of an oyster. 
Fry them in hot butter till a light brown. —Mrs. L. McKnight. 

GREEN-CORN PATTIES. 

Six ears of corn grated. 

Three eggs — little salt. 

One and one-half cups fresh milk. 

One teaspoonful baking powder. 

Beat all well together and drop by the spoonful in boiling fat. 



VEGETABLES. 171 

PEAS. 

In shelling green peas great care should be used that no dirt or bits of 
pod mix with them, as peas lose so much of their sweetness by washing. 
Put the peas in warm water, only enough to keep them from burning, 
season with salt to taste ; then cook slowly ; if young they will be tender in 
twenty minutes. When done, stir in enough butter to make them quite 
rich, and serve with roast lamb. 

STEAMED PEAS, 

The most delicious way of cooking green peas is to put them in a basin 
without any water, and place in a steamer. It will require half as long 
again as for boiling. When tender season well with butter, salt, pepper 
and hot milk. Serve when hot. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Put the peas into boiling water with some salt and a bunch of green 
mint; boil briskly twenty minutes, and when done, drain them in a col- 
ander, dish them up with chopped boiled mint on the top, and send some 
small pats of very fresh butter separately on a plate. 

DRIED PEAS. 

Peas should be put to soak. In the morning, put them on and parboil. 
Drain, and put into fresh water, with a piece of ham or middling, and 
boil until thoroughly done. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Boil the beans until tender, then season with butter, pepper, salt and 

cream. 

DRIED LIMA BEANS. 

The beans should be soaked over night. Put in a covered vessel next 

day, and cook slowly, at least two hours. Season with salt, pepper and 

butter. 

STRING BEANS. 

Break off the ends and string on either side of the bean, break into 
pieces an inch long, and boil them in soft water. If quite tender they 



172 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

will cook done in one hour ; when tender, add salt to taste, and drain 
through a colander, and serve with butter. 

FRENCH BEANS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Pick, string, and cut up the beans, shred each bean into three or four 
strips, wash well, drain in a colander, then throw thein in a stewpan con- 
taining boiling water, and a handful of salt, boil briskly until quite tender. 
They must be drained in a colander, plunged in cold water for five minutes, 
then drained upon a napkin to absorb all moisture. Put a gravy-spoonful 
of Bechamel sauce into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, a 
tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, little nutmeg, mignonette 
pepper, salt and the juice of half a lemon ; stir these well together over 
the hot fire, when well mixed throw in the beans, and toss the whole to- 
gether over the fire until quite hot j then dish them up with a border of 
croutons round them and serve. 

FRENCH BEANS, WITH FINE HERBS. 

Boil the beans as above ; put two pats of fresh butter into a stewpan, 
with a tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, two shallots chopped 
fine, very little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon ; 
simmer over a fire until melted, and then throw the beans in, toss the whole 
together, and dish them up with croutons round them. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

When the skin is tender they are nice for cooking. Cut up and cook 
in very little water ; do not cover, as the evaporation will be more rapid ; as 
they cook down, be very careful that they do not scorch. Stir often ; 
when well cooked, season with salt, pepper and butter, also little cream, 
if desired. 

SUMMER SQUASH FRIED. 

Slice the squash, dip in beaten egg, season well with pepper and salt, 
roll in flour, and fry in hot butter or lard. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

The best kind of winter squash is the small marrow squash. Pare them, 
cut them in pieces of nice size, put in a stewpan, and stew over a slow fire 



VEGETABLES. 173 

with just a little water ; mash the squash in the pan very smooth ; add 
butter and salt to it. 

TO COOK CYMBLINGS. 

Put the cymblings in boiling water, or in a steamer over boiling water; 
boil until tender — then mash well and stew in cream and butter. Season 
with salt and pepper. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Use double the quantit)^ of corn that you do beans. Cook the beans ^or 
at least three hours; put in corn and let it cook one hour, having just 
enough water to cook them in, being very careful not to let it stick. 
Season with salt, pepper and butter. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take one dozen ears of sweet corn ; cut off the kernels ; boil the cobs in 
about three pints of water. Wash a quart of Lima beans and put in water 
with the cobs. Scald one pound of salt pork and add to the beans and 
cobs ; boil all together very nearly one hour ; remove the cobs and add 
the kernels of corn. Let corn, beans and pork boil well fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; when done, there should be only water enough to keep them 
from burning in the pot. Ser\'e the pork on a flat, and the succotash in a 
covered dish. 

BEETS. 

The turnip blood-beet is considered the best, and next to that the long 
blood-beet. 

Wash the beet well, and great care should be used not to prick the skin 
or break the little fibers about them ; if broken, the beets will lose their 
color by boiling. Drop into boiling water, and boil five or six hours ; if 
served hot, season with butter, pepper and salt; if cold, cover with vin- 
egar. 

BAKED PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak one quart of beans in cold soft water over night; the next 
morning wash the beans in fresh water, then put them in the pot with 
two quarts of cold water, place over a slow fire, and cook slowly two 



174 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

hours. Then score one and a half pounds of salt pork, put it into the cen- 
ter of the beans, in a dripping pan. Bake very slowly and until well 
browned. 

Lima and kidney beans are often dried and baked as above. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak one quart of beans twelve hours ; put on one pound of fat salt 
pork in plenty of water to cover the whole ; put in the beans with a little 
salt and one large spoonful of molasses. Bake in a slow oven six or eight 
hours ; the beans must be kept covered with hot water. 

RICE. 

To boil rice : Wash the rice until the water is clear ; then add to two 
cups of rice, four of boiling water, boil it ten minutes, adding a little salt; 
then boil five minutes more, and if all the water has not boiled away re- 
move the cover and place the dish by the side of the fire, where the rice can 
dry ; as soon as all the water disappears the rice should be dished. Rice 
should never be stirred while boiling, as stirring will cause it to stick or 
adhere to the dish. 

TO BOIL HOMINY. 

Soak in water over night, wash well next morning,' and boil until thor- 
oughly done. Season and send to the table hot. 

LARGE HOMINY. 

Put one pint of hominy to a gallon of water ; let it cook very slowly an en- 
tire day ; after it cooks slowly two or three hours, put it to boil gently, but 
do not stir it When you wish to serve it, throw a little butter in a pan 
well heated, season with salt and pepper, and send to table. 

LYE HOMINY. 

Make a lye strong enough to eat a feather. Take good sound corn, 
wash and drop into the hot lye. As soon as you discover that the hull is 
coming off and the eyes falling out, remove and throw into cold water. 



VEGETABLES. 175 

Wash well and put the corn in a pot, allowing room for the corn to swell. 
Boil until thoroughly done, add salt. It is very nice fried in butter, or 
pork gravy, and makes a good breakfast dish. 

CABBAGE A LA CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut the cabbage very fine, put it in a stewpan, cover with water, and 
keep closely covered ; as soon as tender drain off the water, drop in a 
small piece of butter, and salt to taste, half cup of cream, or one of milk. 
Serve while hot. 

CABBAGE. 

Much care should be used in preparing cabbage for boiling, as insects 
are frequently found within its leaves. The drum-head cabbage requires 
a good hour to boil ; the green Savoy cabbage will boil in half the time. 
Cabbage should not boil too long, as too much boiling makes them watery 
and insipid. Drain the cabbage through a colander, and serve with drawn 
butter, or butter poured over it. 

Red cabbage is used for slaw, also the white winter cabbage. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

Shred or chop fine. Have a frying pan at hand with some salt pork 
gravy, and a small quantity of water, season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Cook slowly, keeping well covered. When done serve with or without 
vinegar. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Take a large, firm head of cabbage ; wash well ; take a sharp knife 
and cut out the center, being careful not to disfigure the shape of the cab- 
bage ; chop the heart of cabbage very fine, and add to it some force-meat, 
a Httle made mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, onion, and a piece of butter; 
mix all together and put into the cabbage ; then confine it in a bag closely, 
in order that it may hold together and retain its shape ; boil until done ; 
bring to the table hot, and slice with a sharp knife. 

—Mrs. F. A. Fair child. 

CREAM CABBAGE. 

Slice the cabbage, and cook in just water enough to prevent scorching; 
season to taste with salt and pepper. When done, drain off the water, 



^'^^ TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

and pour over it a small cup of cream, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
and a small quantity of flour, made smooth in a little milk. Let it boil 
and serve. 

CABBAGE AND ONIONS. 

Peel and slice four onions ; fry them brown in a saucepan, with two 
tablespoonfuls of drippings from salt pork or bacon ; meantime slice a 
small white cabbage ; put it with the browned onions, teaspoonful of salt, 
little pepper ; cover the saucepan tight, and cook its contents until the 
cabbage is tender. 

SPICED CABBAGE. 

Quarter a nice cabbage ; put into a saucepan with half a cup of vinegar, 
a large teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of whole pepper, and the 
same of cloves, salt. Cover very closely and steam slowly until tender. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, one raw egg, one cup of vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls butter, one and a half teaspoonfuls of mustard, one teaspoon 
black pepper, same of salt. Mix flour and butter, add egg and above in- 
gredients ; cook until thick ; chop cabbage fine ; add the dressing when 
cold ; mix well ; add one cup of sweet cream. 

TO BOIL CABBAGE WITH BACON. 

Cut a head of hard white cabbage into quarters, pick well, put in salted 
water two or three hours. About an hour before dinner, drain the cabbage 
and put in a pot in which a pound and a quarter of bacon has been boiling ; 
a little red pepper is an improvement. 

TO BOIL SNAPS WITH BACON. 

Pick tender snaps, string carefully, put in water an hour or two, drain well 
and put in a pot with bacon which has been boiling. Boil gently until 
very tender. 

GREENS. 

Wash, and pick carefully, throw into a pot of boiling water with salt. 
Boil without covering until tender, then press through a colander all the 



VEGETABLES. 17T 

water you can ; place on a dish and cut each way, seasoning with pepper, 
salt, and a very liberal amount of butter. Greens are nice boiled with 
ham. Turnip tops, spinach, mustard, cabbage sprouts, beet tops, dande- 
lions, etc., are used for greens. 

TO PREPARE SLAW. 

One-half head of good cabbage, chopped finely, the yolks of two eggs, 
beat and put in a little vinegar, salt and pepper to taste ; boil thick and 
pour over the slaw. 

DRESSING FOR SLAW. 

Yolks of two eggs well beaten, one third of a teacup of vinegar, one tea- 
cupful of new milk or cream, and a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, black or 
cayenne pepper, salt to the taste, butter size of an egg. Stir over the fire 
until thick, and then pour over cabbage. 

TO DRESS CABBAGE. 

If intended to be eaten by itself with bread, this sauce is very delicious. 
Take two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, a pint of milk, three ounces 
of grated cheese, half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pep- 
per ; mix all carefully together with the yolk of an egg, and stir them fre- 
quently, continuously as it begins to thicken and simmer ; after pouring 
this sauce over the cabbage, strew bread crumbs over the top and brown 
in the oven. Very fine. 

HOT SLAW. 

Shave the cabbage fine ; put it on in just water enough to cook it ; when 
done put a little milk in, salt and pepper; then rub a little flour in some 
butter and stir in. An egg may be stirred in in the place of the flour. 

WARM SLAW. 

Cut the cabbage by shaving down the head in very thin strips with a 
sharp knife ; a hard red cabbage is best for this ; then put into a saucepan 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, two gills of water, three gills of vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne (and if liked little garlic) , cut 



^"^^ TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK EOOIC 

up very fine ; when the whole comes to a boil, pour it over the cabbage 
and cover closely five or ten minutes. It is then ready for the table. 

SOUR KROUT. 

Select solid, sound cabbage, and with a very sharp knife, shred or shave 
very finely. The cabbage should then be packed in a barrel in layers six 
inches deep ; between the layers strew a handful of salt and a small tea- 
cup of carroway seeds ; contmue this until the barrel is filled ; have it pressed 
very hard with a weight, put a very thick, strong cover over it, and a 
weight on the cover. Let the barrel remain in this way four weeks in 
winter, and not quite two in summer; about this length of time the cab- 
bage will be in a state of fermentation, but not fit to use until fermentation 
has entirely ceased. 

No vinegar used at all with this preparation. Some like mace, and all- 
spice, and I think it a good addition. The Germans are exceedingly fond 
of this dish, and write Souer kraut, or sauer kohl, which is sour herb, or 



sour cabbage. 



RADISHES. 



As soon as taken from the ground throw into cold water. Red and 
white radishes are very pretty arranged fancifully in a dish, ornamented 
with curled parsley. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Wash carefully, so as not to break off the sprouts ; trim all the outside 
leaves and put into boiling water well salted ; boil until tender, and then 
serve with a white sauce or with cream. 

CAULIFLOWERS WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Prepare and dish up the cauliflowers. Put a large spoonful of Bechamel 
sauce into a stewpan with four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two 
ounces of fresh butter, the j'olks of four eggs, a small piece of glaze, some 
lemon juice, nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir over a fire until it be well 
mixed without boiling ; then pour over the cauliflowers so as to mask 
them entirely with it. Smooth over with the blade of a knife, and cover 
the top with a coating of grated Parmesan cheese ; place them in the oven, 



VEGETABLES. 179 

and as soon as they have acquired a bright yellow color, put a border of 
croutons of fried bread round the base and serve, 

CREAM CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil in salted water only — enough to cook it ; then add a cup of cream 
and season with pepper and salt 

SPINACH. 

Spinach requires good washing and close picking. Boil with little salt; 
let it boil about twenty minutes ; drain, season with butter, pepper and 
salt ; garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Spinach is very nice covered with nicely poached eggs. 

SPINACH WITH CREAM, 

Pick the stalks from the spinach; wash well, and boil well in a stewpan 
with a little salt ; boil until very tender ; season with nutmeg and two 
ounces of fresh butter ; stir it over a fire until quite warm, then add a gill 
of cream, two pats of butter and a dessertspoonful of pounded sugar; 
work the whole over the fire, and dish up the spinach, putting it in the 
center of dish. Garnish with croutons, and serve. 

Sorrel may be treated as spinach, above. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cook only the tender, green stalks ; Cut them of equal lengths and boil 
in water with a little salt till tender. While the asparagus is cooking prepare 
some nicely toasted bread, lay the asparagus on the toast and season with 
butter, salt and pepper, or pour over it a little cream which has been scalded. 
This is a favorite way for serving this vegetable. 

ASPARAGUS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Pick the loose leaves from the heads, and scrape the stalks clean ; wash 
well in very cold water; tie them up in bundles of about twenty in each, 
keeping all the heads turned the same way ; cut the stalks even, leaving 
them about eight inches long. 



180 



TWENTIETH CENTUR i' HOAIE COOK BOOK. 



Put the asparagus in hot water witli a small handful of salt in it to boil 
about twenty minutes, and when done, drain carefully upon a napkin, to 
avoid breaking off the heads ; dish them up on a square thick piece of 
toasted bread dipped in the water they have been boiled in. Cover with 
white sauce and serve. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut the stalks of equal length as possible. Tie in a bunch. Boil in 
salted water twenty-five minutes. 

Pour drawn butter over it. 

Asparagus makes a nice dish cut into small pieces, and cook as you 
would green peas. 

CARROTS. 

Boil, without peeling, two hours ; remove their skin ; cut them in slices, 
and serve with butter and salt on them. 

SPRING CARROTS. 

Scrape well and boil in salted water until tender. Pour over them white 
sauce, addmg a little chopped parsley and lemon juice. 

TO STEW PARSNIPS. 

Peel the parsnips and slice them ; boil in a covered vessel until tender 
with thin slices of pork ; salt and pepper to taste. 

TO FRY PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips are very nice cut lengthwise and fried in butter until brown. 

TO COOK PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips when large require at least one and a half hours to boil. When 
done, peel off the skin, split them in halves, and ser\'e with butter and 
cream ; or the parsnips may be mashed and mixed with an egg batter, 
and seasoned. 

Parsnips are better when left in the ground all winter. 



VEGETABLES. 181 

CELERY. 



Clean and wash the heads , cut in nice pieces ; stew them in httle water 
for twentj'-five minutes ; serve on toast, and pour butter over. 



STEWED CELERY. 

Clean the heads nicely. Take off all the outer leaves. Cut in small 
pieces and stew ; when tender, add some rich cream, butter and very little 
flour. Season with pepper, salt and a very little nutmeg if preferred. 

SALSIFY. 

Scrape and wash the roots, cut them in slices, and stew in water enough 
to cover them 3 keep thein well covered, as they will turn dark if exposed 
to the air ; twenty minutes is sufficient to cook them ; when done add but- 
ter, pepper, salt, and thicken with a little flour. Serve hot in a covered 
dish. 

TO COOK SALSIFY. 

Wash the roots, scrape well, cut in line pieces. When boiled very ten- 
der, mash and season with pepper, salt, cracker crumbs, butter and milk. 
Pour into a dish and bake nicely. 

SALSIFY FRIED IN BATTER. 

Cook the salsify until tender, drain and cut into pieces three inches long; 
drop in a basin with two tablespoonfuls oil, one of vinegar, little mignon- 
ette pepper, and salt ; let the salsify steep in this until about ten minutes 
before sending to the table ; they must then be drained on a napkin, dipped 
in some light made batter, and fried in hot lard ; when done drain them on 
a cloth, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley and serve. 

SALSIFY, OR VEGETABLE OYSTERS. 

Wash and scrape thoroughly, and throw into a pan of cold water. Cut 
into pieces half an inch long, boil until tender, then pour off the water, 
season with pepper and salt, a lump of butter, and enough cream to almost 
cover them ; thicken gravy with very little flour. This dish is nice served 
on toast. 



182 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

FRIED OYSTER PLANT. 

Parboil the plant, scrape off the outside, cut in slices, dip in egg, roll in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

MACARONI AS A VEGETABLE. 

Throw into plentj' of water one-half pounJ of macaroni, simmer until 
tender, being careful that the pieces are not broken ; drain off all the water. 
Take the j-olks of five and the whites of two eggs, half a pint of cream, 
white meat and ham chopped very fine, three spoonfuls of grated cheese ; 
season with salt and pepper, heat and stir constantly. Mix with the maca- 
roni, put into a buttered mould and steam one hour. 

TRUFFLES. 

TrufHes should be well brushed and cleansed ; they belong to the family 
of the mushrooms and are used principally as a condiment for fish, game, 
beef, etc. 

When truffles are well cleansed and brushed they may be sliced thin, 
put in a baking dish and seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, parsley, garlic 
and a little mace. Bake nicely, and serve while hot with lemon juice. 

EGG PLANT. 

Pare and slice them ; put in salted water, where it shouid remam xong 
enough to extract all bitterness ; then wipe each piece dr}', and dip first in 
beaten egg, then in fine cracker crumbs ; sprinkle over each piece very 
little pepper, and fry in hot fat. Serve while hot. 

You must not remove them from the water until ready to cook, as the 
air will turn them black. 

TO BAKE EGG PLANT. 

The egg plant should be well parboiled ; remove the meat carefully, 
and mix it with butter, pepper, salt and bread crumbs ; then put this mix- 
ture into the hulls ; place in an oven and bake. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Mushrooms are very rare in this country. It is very important to be 
able to distinguish those which are wholesome from the poisonous. The 



VEGETABLES. 183 



gills of the mushroom are of a pinky red, changing to hver coior ; the flesh 
is white, the stem white, soHd and cyUndrical. In order to test mushrooms, 
sprinkle salt on the gills, if they turn yellow they are poisonous ; if they 
turn black they are good. 



STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Put them in a saucepan, season nicely with pepper and salt, add a 
spoonful of butter, and a spoonful or two of gravy from roast meat, or the 
same quantity of good rich cream ; shake them about over the fire, and 
as soon as they boil will be done. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Take the large flat mushrooms, and with a knife remove as much of the 
outside skin as you can without breaking the mushrooms ; then lay them 
on a double-wire broiler, well greased to prevent them from sticking ; place 
them on the fire and broil, first on one side and then the other ; a few 
minutes will broil them ; when they steam out sprinkle them with pepper 
and salt ; lay them on a very hot dish and pour melted butter liberally over 
them. They are nice served on buttered toast in the same way. 

MACARONI WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Take one pound of macaroni, break into small pieces and let it cook 
until tender ; drop in with it a little salt. Put one-half cup of mushrooms 
(dried) to soak in a little water. When done, drain, then fry two or three 
slices of bacon, cut some onion fine and put with the gravy, and let it 
come to a light brown ; remove from the fire and put in three small ppoon- 
fuls of chopped tomatoes, also the mushrooms, put on the stove and cook 
slowly twenty minutes. Grate some cheese on a platter, then put a layer 
of macaroni, then a layer mushrooms ; alternate until ingredients are all 
used. Serve hot. 

MUSHROOMS, AU GRATIN. 

Large mushrooms must be used for this purpose. Cut the stalks, trim 
the edges and remove the skin, filling each mushroom with the following 
preparation : Chop up four shalots, two ounces of fat bacon, a little lean 
ham grated, or chopped very fine ; put these into a stewpan, season with 



184 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

salt and pepper, also a little chopped thyme. Fry over the fire about five' 
minutes ; then mix in the yolks of four eggs, fill the mushrooms with this 
preparation, shake some raspings of bread over them, place in a pan thickly 
spread with butter ; then put into the oven for about one-quarte-r of an 
hour and then dish them up in a pyramidal form ; pour some brown sauce 
round them and serve. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A LA SAUCE. 

Wash well in plenty of water, peel or turn them in the form of large 
olives or small pears ; boil them in water, with a piece of butter and a little 
salt, for fifteen minutes ; when done drain them upon a cloth, dish them 
up carefully, pour some butter sauce over them, and serve. 

OKRA. 

Pick tender okra and boil in salted water. Drain well, add a large table- 
spoonful of butter, half cup of cream, salt and pepper to the taste, and 
serve hot. 

TURNIPS. 

Turnips are a very watery vegetable. They should be put into boiling 
water and boiled thoroughly until well done, adding a little salt to the 
water. Then drain off water, mash fine through a colander, season with 
cream, butter, black pepper, and more salt, if necessary. Keep them 
very hot until you dish your dinner. 

PORK AND TURNIPS. 

Boil the turnips until done ; mash well ; season with salt and pepper, 
have ready some pork gravy ; mix it with the turnips and place it inside 
the oven a few minutes. Serve hot. 

TO DRESS CUCUMBERS. 

Cucumbers should be gathered very early in the morrimg, and put in 
cold water, where they should remain until about an hour before needed, 
having been peeled. Then slice the cucumber as thin as possible and 
drop into ice water ; let them remain in this until ready to be eaten ; then 



VEGETABLES. 



185 



drain off every particle of water, till a dish with alternate layers of the 
cucumber and white onion sliced thin. Season with salt and pepper. 
Pour a cup of vinegar over it, and place a lump of ice on top. 

CUCUMBERS, A LA L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Cut the cucumbers into lengths of two inches ; remove all the seeds, 
pare off the skins, and trim them round and smooth at the ends ; parboil 
them in water and salt a few minutes, and then drain them upon a napkin. 
Fill each piece of cucumber with some quenelle force-meat of chicken ; 
then place thein in order in a deep pan, lined with thin pieces of fat bacon ; 
cover the cucumbers with the same ; moisten with consomme, and let 
them siinmer over a slow fire for half an hour ; when very tender drain 
them upon a cloth ; dish in a pyramidal shape ; pour some Espagnole 
sauce over them, and serve. 

TO FRY CUCUMBERS. 

Peel the cucumbers ; cut in lengthwise slices ; put in cold water for 

about one hour. Wipe dry with a cloth; season with salt and pepper; 

dip the slices in well-beaten egg, then in fine cracker, and fry a light 
brown on both sides. 

MACARONI, AU GRATIN. 

Boil one pound of macaroni, and when done cut into three-inch lengths, 
put into a stewpan with three-quarters of a pound of grated Parmesan 
cheese, four ounces of fresh butter, and a good large spoonful of Bechamel 
sauce ; season with pepper and salt, tossing the whole together over the fire 
until well mixed ; then pile it up in the center of a border of fried croutons 
of bread (previously stuck round the bottom of the dish) ; strew the surface 
with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions ; 
drop a little melted butter over the top of the macaroni, and then put it in 
the oven and bake it a bright yellow, and serve very hot. 

MACARONI, WITH OYSTERS. 

Boil the macaroni in salted water until tender, then draw through a 
colander; take a deep earthen dish, using first macaroni, then oysters, 
alternating in this way until the dish is nearly filled. Sprinkle each layer 



186 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

of macaroni witli grated cheese before putting on the oysters. Bake until 
brown. This makes a verj' nice dish. 

MACARONI, WITH CHEESE. 

Throw into boiling water soine macaroni, with salt, let it boil gently 
until a little inore than half clone, then drain off all the water, place the 
macaroni in a saucepan with just milk enough to cover it, boil till done. 
Butter a deep dish, sprinkle the bottom with grated cheese, then a thin 
laj-er of macaroni, little white pepper, plenty of butter, sprinkle on more 
cheese, cover them with a thin layer of bread crumbs, brown in a quick 
oven • serve hot. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Put into a saucepan about half pound of macaroni, broken in pieces 
an inch in length, with water sufficient to boil tender, add a little salt; 
when done drain and put into a well-buttered dish in layers, with grated 
cheese sprinkled very liberally over each layer, using pepper, salt and but- 
ter. When the dish is full pour over one cup of sweet cream. Bake in a 
moderate oven about twenty-five minutes, and serve hot. Excellent. 

PUREE OF PEAS. 

Boil a quart of marrowfat peas in the usual manner, with mint, a few 
green onions, and a small bunch of parsley ; strain off the water, and 
pound the whole in a mortar; then put into a stewpan, add a little sugar, 
one spoonful of white sauce ; make it hot ; pass it through a sieve ; place 
in a stewpan and warm before using it ; mix in a small piece of glaze and 
a piece of fresh butter. 

PUREE OF SPINACH. 

Pick, wash and boil a small dish of spinach; refresh it m cold water; 
free it entirely from all water by squeezing it; pound in a mortar ; put 
into a saucepan with a ladleful of white sauce, little nutmeg, salt, and only 
a pinch of sugar; reduce the puree over a brisk fire to preserve its color; 
pass through a colander, then put into a stewpan just before using it to get 
warm, and add two spoonfuls fresh butter and a small piece of glaze. 



VEGETABLES. 187 

PUREE OF POTATOES. 

Peel, wash and cut seven or eight good potatoes into sUces, put them into 
a pan with two ounces of butter, some mignonette pepper, salt, and small 
quantity of nutmeg ; mix with them a pint of white broth, cover the pan and 
place on the fire to boil. By the time the broth is reduced the potatoes will 
be about done; then add a teacup of cream, then mash the potatoes on the 
fire, having them the consistency of mashed potatoes ; rub the pur(^e through 
a hair sieve on a dish, then put into a small stewpan ; before using add a 
s-poonful of butter. 

PUREE OF TOMATOES. 

Cut three ounces of nice raw ham into small pieces, put into a stewpan 
with three shallots, a bay leaf, a piece of th3'me, small blade of mace, and a 
few pepper corns ; to this put a piece of butter size of a walnut, frj^ all to- 
gether until a li^ht brown ; then squeeze one dozen ripe tomatoes and add a 
small teacup of white sauce ; reduce the purc^e on the fire, rub through a 
ver}^ fine sieve, and put into the stewpan, and when about ready to send to 
the table add to it a small piece of fresh butter, and a little glaze 

PUREE OF ONIONS. 

Peel, then slice seven large onions, put on to parboil in water for a very 
few minutes, drain them through a colander or sieve, then plunge into 
cold water, press in a cloth in order to extract all the water ; then put into 
a stewpan with salt, mignonette pepper, little nutmeg and one spoonful of 
white broth ; then place on a slow fire to simmer slowly about thirty-five 
minutes (keep the stewpan covered), pour the onions into a pan and moisten 
with a small teacup of white sauce, and the same of cream. Reduce the 
puree huriedly over a quick fire, rub through a hair sieve on to a dish, then 
put into a pan. Just before using add one small teaspoonful of sugar. 

PUREE OF TURNIPS. 

Wash and cook about one dozen turnips, cutting them into small pieces, 
first drain them on a clean napkin, then put into a stewpan with two pieces 
of butter the size of a small egg, salt, and a pinch of sugar ; they should 
stew very slowly, turning them occasionally, being very careful that they do 
not change their color. When very nearly cooked add a very small cupful 



188 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

of Bechamel sauce ; stir the pur^e while on the fire, and reduce to a thick 
consistency ; lastly, add a teacup of rich cream, reduce the puree still more, 
then pass through a fine sieve, put into a small stewpan, and just before 
using heat it, adding a small spoonful of butter, and serve. 

PUREE OF CUCUMBERS. 

Chop fine two large slices of lean ham ; put it into a stewpan with a 
large slice of butter, few peppercorns, little nutmeg; add to this four 
cucumbers, trimmed and cut up ; place the stewpan on the fire, letting it 
cook slowly for twenty minutes ; then add one teacup of white sauce ; re- 
duce the puree quickly over a brisk fire, and when about the consistency of 
paste, add to it half a pint of cream, and one small teaspoonful of sugar; 
reduce the purde five or six minutes longer over the fire ; then pass through 
a sieve, and put into a pan for use. 

PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. 

Clean a pottle of clean white button mushrooms ; chop, adding the juice 
of a lemon to keep them from turning black ; chop fine and put into a pan 
with a piece of butter size of an egg ; stir them on the fire a few minutes ; 
mix with this a small teacup of good white sauce ; reduce the puree, then 
add a good teacup of rich cream ; stir the puree over the fire again for 
about four minutes ; rub through a fine sieve on to a dish ; then put into a 
stewpan until needed. 



CHAPTER XIV. 



FRITTERS. 



PLAIN FRITTERS. 

One pint of fresh sweet milk, two eggs, beaten separately, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar (or use baking powder), 
add a little salt. Fry in hot lard ; drop in a crust of bread to soak the 

brown part of lard. 

BELL FRITTERS. 

Boil one pint of water in a kettle, add to it one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter, mix one pint of flour with cold water, making into a paste ; then 
pour boiling water over this, little at a time, keeping the paste smooth. 
Return it to the kettle and stir carefully to prevent lumping. Have well 
beaten, six eggs, then add to them a spoonful of the mixture at a time until 
it is all well mixed. Beat rapidly, in order that the eggs may not cook in 
lumps. When beaten very light, drop the fritters in the shape of an egg 
into boiling hot lard. To be eaten with molasses or maple syrup. 

DELICIOUS APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core good tart apples, not too mellow. Cut in round slices 
about half an inch thick. Dip each slice in sugar and ground cinnamon, 
mixed. Then take on the end of the forefinger and whirl around in the 
following batter till thickly covered with it. Then drop in hot drippings 
and fry a light brown. To one pint of milk add three lightly beaten eggs, 
a pinch of soda and a pinch of salt, and flour enough to make a batter 
about as stiff as ordinary light-cakes. Dust powdered sugar over the fritters 
before serving. Chopped apples stirred into this batter and fried by spoon- 
fuls make a nice fritter, but not as handsome a dish as the first way of 
making them. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 

Grate six cold potatoes that have been boiled, add to them one pint of 
cream or new milk, and flour enough to make as stiff a batter as for other 

[189] 



190 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

fritters, the yolks of three eggs, then the beaten whites, salt and fry in nice, 
sweet butter. 

RAW POTATO FRITTERS. 

Peel and grate eight large potatoes. Make a batter of three eggs and 
flour enough to work the potatoes sufficiently for fr}''ing. Salt to taste. 
After thoroughly mixing drop in boiling lard and fry until done. These 
are very nice when properly prepared. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

Leave the skins on the tomatoes for fritters, as it serves to hold it 
together ; slice in rather thick slices ; then dip each slice in beaten egg and 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot butter. This is a nice breakfast dish. 

—Mrs. E. A. B. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil tender; mash smooth and fine, picking out the woody bits. For 
three large parsnips allow two eggs, one cup rich milk,^one tablespoonful 
butter, one teaspoonful salt, three tablespoonfuls of flour. Beat the eggs 
light; stir in the mashed parsnips, beating hard ; then the butter and salt; 
next the milk. Fry as fritters. 

SPINACH FRITTERS. 

Boil the spinach until tender ; drain ; press and mince fine ; add half 
the quantity of grated stale bread, one grate of nutmeg and a small tea- 
spoonful of sugar ; add a gill of cream and as many eggs as will make a 
batter, beating the whites separately; pepper and salt to taste. Drop a 
little from the spoon into boiling lard ; if it separates, add a little more 
crumbs of bread. When they rise to the surface of the fat they are done ; 
drain and serve quickly. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Grate six ears of corn and mix with one tablespoonful of flour, two eggs, 
salt and pepper to taste ; drop spoonfuls in hot lard and fry like oysters till 
brown. —C. M. B. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

To four eggs well beaten add one and one-half pints of sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and flour enough 



FRITTERS. 191 



to make a nice batter. Peel and cut apples in rather thin slices, drop in 
the batter, see that they are well covered, and then fry in boiling fat. 
Sprinkle thickly with powdered sugar. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

One and a half cupfuls of cold boiled rice, two-thirds of a pint of fresh 
sweet milk, three eggs well beaten, and flour enough to make a rather stiff 
batter. Add a full teaspoonful of baking powder. Fry in boiling fat. 
Very nice with maple syrup and butter. 

HOMINY FRITTERS. 

Prepare the hominy as for rice fritters, and serve with syrup or jam. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

One and one-half pints of flour, yolks of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, shortening of lard and butter together the size of a hickory- 
nut, milk enough to make a rather thick batter; drop in hot lard and fr^\ 
Eat with butter and sugar, or dip pieces of apple into the batter before 
fr^'ing. 

A great deal of lard is required to fry fritters properly ; the lard may be 
strained and used again. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

One-half pint of flour, yolks of three eggs beaten light, one teacup of 
milk and a small lump of butter about size of a walnut, a pinch of salt. 
Beat the whites until very stiff. Stir the batter well. Peel the bananas, 
cut in strips lengthwise ; dip them in the batter and fry a very light brown. 
Sprinkle powdered sugar over the top and serve. These are nice eaten 
either hot or cold. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Put into an earthen dish three spoonfuls of flour, a tablespoonful of yeast 
powder and two whole eggs ; mix this with a little clam juice. Mince a 
pint of clams, and mix this with nice sweet butter. Put two or three 
spoonfuls of lard into a shallow frying pan ; when very hot drop your mix- 
ture therein by spoonfuls to fry ; turn them over after three or four min- 
utes ; let them fry a moment longer ; then take them out, and after drain- 



192 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

ing them on a cloth, serve. Clam fritters should not be cooked in large 
masses. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Select nice oysters, wipe them dry, have ready a batter made of five 
eggs, five tablespoonfuls of flour, and milk enough to make a pretty stiff 
batter. Beat until very smooth, put in a pan equal quantities of butter and 
lard. As soon as it begins to froth well, put a large spoonful of batter in 
the pan, laying a large oyster in the middle of it. If the batter is too thin, 
add flour, if too thick more milk can be used. Very fine. 

WINE FRITTERS. 

Beat six eggs light, and gradually stir into them six tablespoonfuls of 
sweet wine and six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Have ready a suffi- 
cient number of large, fresh milk biscuits, split in two, soak in a bowl of 
sweet wine for about five minutes, and drain on a sieve. Dip each piece 
in the batter and fry them in hot butter until a light brown. When done 
sift powdered sugar over them and serve in a napkin. 

APRICOT FRITTERS. 

Mix a pound of sifted flour in a bowl with a pint of sweet milk (or water 
will do) ; mix until it becomes perfectly smooth, and stir in two ounces of 
melted butter, and the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Dip 
twelve or fourteen apricots in this batter, previously cut in halves and 
sprinkled with white sugar ; fry in hot lard to a light brown ; drain them 
upon a cloth ; sift white sugar over them and serve hot. Delicious. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Remove the skins of the peaches and cut into quarters. Drop them in a 
little sweetened wine and let them remain for a few minutes ; make a bat- 
ter as for apricot fritters, and after dipping each piece in, fry a pretty brown. 
Large plums may be prepared in the same way. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Peel the oranges and slice thin, then dip in a batter made of one egg, 
one heaping tablespoonful of sugar, a little milk, and flour enough to make 



FRITTERS. 193 

a thin batter; try in butter or nice, sweet lard, which should be very hot 
indeed, for the oranges are not good unless cooked quickly. When nice 
and brown put in a dish and sprinkle with powdered sugar. When prop- 
erly prepared these are delicious. — Mrs. J. P. Hird. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel the pineapple without any waste and slice ; canned pineapple is 
just as nice for the purpose ; fry them in a batter made as for orange frit- 
ters, or a very nice way of preparing this dish is to first steep the fruit in a 
glass of wine and then dip in the batter and fry a pretty brovn. Sprinkle 
sugar over the top and serve. Very nice for luncheon or tea. 



CHAPTER XV. 

CROQUETTES, ETC. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One large chicken boiled very soft; two or three sets of brains boiled in 
a muslin bag (previously soaked in salt v^ater) tied up ; when cooked chop 
the chicken and brains until they are as fine as you can get them ; season 
well with salt, pepper, parsley chopped fine, the juice and little of the 
grated rind of one lemon. Add one cup of suet minced fine. I use butter, 
as I do not like suet, one cup three-quarters full. If too stiff add a little 
cream ; make into shape ; have plenty of lard boiling hot. Dip them in 
cracker crumbs and fry like an oyster. The softer and more creamy they 
are the better, just so they can be luade without falling to pieces. A sauce 
made with tomato sauce, with mushrooms sliced, or mushrooms and truffles, 
served with croquettes is nice; with sweetbreads, also. You can have 
them without this sauce if you like. —Mrs Bickham, New Orleans. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One chicken boiled and chopped ; two sweetbreads. Take two tea- 
spoons of flour, two and a half of butter. Mix these thoroughly and stir in 
half a pint of boiled milk — cooking it until it becomes thick. Mix this 
with the chicken, adding pepper and salt, a teaspoon of grated onions, 
small quantity of celery seeds, and nutmeg. Form your croquettes, dip 
them in an egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

COQUILLES DE VOLAILLE. 

Boil your chicken the same as for salad. Pull the meat from the fowl, 
cutting in pieces the size of the end of j^our finger. Take the top of the 
water that the chicken was boiled in — say half a cup. In this have an 
onion minced fine and boiled in it; take fiour ; wet it with cold water and 
stir in boiling water. It must be like paste ; stir all the time to prevent 

[194] 



CROQUETTES, ETC. 195 

lumping or burning. Take from the fire when well cooked and add a cup 
o,f butter, a box of mushrooms sliced thin and a few truffles, one cup of 
cream ; season highly with cayenne pepper and salt ; when cold add a 
large wine glass of sherry wine ; put your chicken in the sauce and let it 
stand for several hours. Place in the shells ; sprinkle bread crumbs on top 
and brown in the oven just before serving. - Mrs. Bickham, New Orleans, 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Three-fourths of a pound of chicken cut fine, half a can of mushrooms 
cut fine, one teaspoonful of grated onion, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, 3'olks of two raw eggs and a glass of sherry. Put 
onion and butter over the fire and brown ; add flour, add liquor from mush- 
rooms ; then the chopped chicken and mushrooms, salt, pepper and sherry ; 
stir the mixture over the fire until it begins to boil ; take off the fire and 
stir in the j'olks and place on a dish to cool ; shape and roll in egg and 
crumbs and fry in very hot lard. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Boil a half pound of rice until very soft, then mix two tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, one small teaspoon of raacc, and enough butter to moisten it. 
Mince very fine six tablespoonfu'.s of white meat of chicken or turkey, the 
soft part of six large oysters, a lew s:irigs of parsley, a grated nutmeg, 
and the yellow rind of a lemon ; mix well and moisten with cream. Take 
a portion of the prepared rice, about tlie size of an egg, flatten it and put 
in the center a dessertspoonful of the mixture ; close the rice round it and 
form in the shape of an egg ; dip in egg and roll in pounded cracker, and 
cook in boiling hot lard. 

HAM CROQUETTES. 

One cup of cold boiled rice, one cup of lean ham chopped very fine, mix 
with one egg and a little Worcester sauce, dip in egg, and roll in fine 
cracker crumbs and fry in boiling hot lard. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil, and mash fine six large potatoes, one tablespoon of butter, two- 
thirds of a cup of cream, whites of two eggs, beaten light, season with 



196 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

salt and pepper. Let the mixture cool a little, shape nicely, dip in egg, 
then in crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

Boll ten or twelve eggs until hard. Cut the 3'olks and whites in shapes. 
Mix with white sauce and fine bread crumbs sufficient to form with the 
hand. When cold, season with pepper and salt, make into cakes, roll in 
crumbs. Let the cakes stand one hour, and fry in hot butter and lard 
mixed . 

GREEN CORN CROQUETTES. 

To one quart of grated young corn add one teacup of flour; pepper and 
salt, one cup of sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls of butter. Warm the milk 
and butter, then add the corn ; when cold, add three eggs beaten very 
light, adding the whites last. Make into balls, and fry in very hot lard. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

Take any kind of boiled fish, remove all the bones, chop fine, with little 
parsley, season with pepper and salt ; make a little batter of flour and egg, 
also little inilk ; make into balls, roll into egg and cracker crumbs. Fiy a 
pretty brown. Serve with a mayonnaise, or any sauce preferred. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Chop very fine about two pounds of lobsters, one egg, salt and pepper, 
and two tablespoonfuls of butter ; cook the butter and flour together ; to it 
add a very small teacup of cream, also lobster and seasoning ; the egg 
should be well beaten and added while the ingredients are hot. One good 
half tablespoonful of flour is sufficient to mix with the cream. Set in a 
cool place, then shape, and dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs and 
fry in hot lard. 

Veal, beef, mutton, lamb, and turkey may be prepared the same as you 
would chicken croquettes. 

WESTPHALIA CROQUETTES. 

Four ounces finely chopped ham, one pound of mashed potatoes, one- 
half gill of sweet cream, two ounces of butter, half teaspoon pepper. Beat 



CROQUETTES^ ETC. 197 

the potatoes and cream together, add the other ingredients, mould into 
round balls, dip in beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs, and fry in lard. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

One pint of raw oysters, half a pint of cooked veal, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, five spoonfuls of cracker crumbs, the yolks of four eggs, two 
srriall tablespoons of onion juice . Chop the oysters and veal very fine. 
Soak the cracker in the oyster liquor, mix well all the ingredients and then 
shape. Dip in egg, and roll in cracker crumbs, fry in hot lard. The but- 
ter should be melted before mixing with the above ingredients. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Chop fine two pints of salmon, one and a half teacupfuls of cream, 
three large tablespoons of butter, two of flour, four eggs, five gills of 
bread crumbs ; pepper and salt to the taste. 

Braid butter and flour together. When the cream begins to boil, stir in 
the flour, butter, salmon and seasoning. Boil up for two minutes, then stir 
in two eggs well beaten, take from the fire, and as soon as cold shape, and 
prepare the same as you would other croquettes. 

CHICKEN QUENELLES. 

Take one chicken, weighing at least three pounds, six tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a tablespoonful of chopped salt pork, four eggs, one gill of white 
stock, two gills of fresh milk, one small cupful of stale bread crumbs, about 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, and the same of onion juice, salt and pep- 
per. Cut the chicken from the bones ; first remove the skin ; pound the 
meat very fine. Mix pork with chicken and rub through a sieve. The 
bread and milk should be put on the fire and cooked together, stirring it 
all the time, being careful to have it smooth. Mix the chicken with the 
cooked bread and milk, adding the seasoning and the stock ; if the stock 
is not convenient the same amount of cream may be substituted. Add 
yolks of eggs, and lastly the whites beaten very light. 

Rub the sides of your pan well with butter, also the bottom. Have 
ready two tablespoons and a pan of boiling water. Dip one spoon in the 
water and then heap it full with the force-meat ; dip the other spoon in hot 
water and turn the contents of the first into it. This process gives the 

68 



198 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



quenelles the right shape ; then slip at once into the frying pan. Carry on 
this until all the meat is shaped. Cover the quenelles with white stock, 
boiling, with little salt and cook very slowly about twenty minutes. Re- 
move from pan and drain, then serve with mashed potatoes or fried bread. 
Pour a spoonful oi Bechamel sauce on each and ser\'e hot. 

CHICKEN QUENELLES, BREADED. 

After having prepared the quenelles as above, boil them and drain well. 
When cold dip in beaten egg ; roll in bread crumbs and place in a frying 
pan with very hot fat. Cook three minutes. Serve with fried parsley. 

VEAL QUENELLES. 

Veal quenelles are prepared in the same manner as chicken quenelles. 

ICED SAVORY SOUFFLE. 

Cut up crab into small pieces, let it soak in mayonnaise sauce for two 
hours. Have soine aspic jelly, half liquid, whip it until it is verj' frothy, 
put some of it in the dish it is to be served in ; then place a layer of crab 
well seasoned, and fill it up with aspic and crab alternately until the dish 
is nearly full ; place a band of stiff paper around and fill in with whipped 
aspic. Set on ice for two hours, take off tlie paper and serve. This can 
be made of fish, chicken or game. 

TOMATO SOUFFLE. 

Prepare some tomato pulp, taking care to boil it down if too liquid; stir 
in the j^olks of three eggs, then the whites, well beaten, salt to taste. Fill 
either a large souffle case or several small ones, baking m a hot oven until 
it rises very high and is set in the center. Serve instantl}^ 

COLD CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Grate one and a half ounces of Swiss cheese, the same of Parmesan ; 
whip one-half pint of cream and a gill of aspic jelly to a froth ; stir in the 
cheese, season with salt, cayenne and made mustard to taste. Fill little 



CROQUETTES, ETC. 199 

baskets, grate cheese over the top and set in ice to get firm. This mixture 
may be frozen Hke ice cream, but very firm, cut in little cubes and serve on 
canapes of fried bread. 

SAVAGE CLUB CANAPES. 

Cut slices of stale bread into circles the size of fifty-cent pieces ; brown 
in a little hot butter; lay on paper to absorb the grease. Stone some 
olives ; fillet half as many anchovies ; wash them ; dry them and roll each 
one up as small as possible and insert it in an olive in place of the stone ; 
trim one end of the olive so that it will stand. Then put a drop of thick 
mayonnaise on the center of each one of the rounds of bread, which must be 
quite cold ; stand the stuffed olive on it and put a drop of mayonnaise on 
the top to cover the opening in the olive. 

CANAPES A LA BISMARCK. 

Fry small cubes of stale bread in butter until brown, spread over each 
when cold a layer of anchovy butter, curl around each an anchovy well 
washed, boned and trimmed ; sprinkle very finely shredded olives over them. 
Anchovy butter is made of two parts butter and one of anchovy paste. 

ALLUMETES. 

Have some anchovies preserved in oil, wipe them from scales and oil, 
cut each into long strips. Have ready some plain paste rolled very thin ; 
envelop each strip of anchovy in pastry and fry in very hot lard until crisp 
and yellow ; serve log-house fashion ; put fried parsley in the corners and 
serve very hot. 

PATTIES. 

Have ready some fine puff paste, put in the ice chest to get firm, then 
roll about three-quarters of an inch in thickness. Have the pastry rolled 
equally thick ; cut with a round cutter three and a half inches in diameter, 
and put in the pans ; use another cutter two and a half inches in diameter, 
dip it in hot water, place in the center of the patty, and cut about two- 
thirds through. The center pieces are to form the covers, and separate 
very easily from the rest when baked . Put in a very hot oven ; after 
baking ten minutes reduce the heat, then bake fifteen minutes longer. 



200 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Remove from the oven and take out the center pieces, and scrape out the 
uncooked paste with a knife or spoon. Fill with the meat, put on the 
covers and serve. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Take as many oysters as you have patties, stew them in their own liquor, 
cut in pieces, add a teaspoonful of flour, salt and pepper, butter the size of 
a large walnut, little grated lemon peel, to about one dozen. Add to the 
oysters three spoonfuls of good cream, little mace, mix well, fill the patty 
shells, and serve. 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 

To one-half pint of cream add half a pint of cold chicken ; boil four min- 
utes ; fill the shells and serve. All poultry and game may be served in 
patties the same way. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. 

Cut one pint of lobsters into small pieces, half a pint of white sauce, very 
little mustard, a small pinch of cayenne. Put on the fire and stir together 
until hot. Place in shells and serve. 

VEAL PATTIES. 

Cut one pint of cooked veal into dice, and put into a stewpan with one- 
half pint of white sauce and one small teaspoonful of lemon juice. Place 
on the fire and stir until well heated. Fill the shells and serve. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

One-quarter of a pound of rich cream cheese, one fourth cup of cream 
or milk, one teaspoonful of mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt, a few 
grains of cayenne, one egg, one teaspoonful of butter, four slices of toast. 
Break the cheese in small pieces or if hard grate it. Put it with the milk 
in a double boiler. Toast the bread and keep it hot. Mix the mustard, 
salt and pepper ; add the egg and beat well. When the cheese is 
meltea stir in the egg and butter and cook two minutes, or until it 
thickens a little, but do not let it curdle. Pour it over the toast. Many 
use ale instead of cream. This is a delicious dish. 



. CROQUETTES, ETC. 201 

WELSH RAREBIT, 

Half pound of cheese, one tablespoon made mustard, little cayenne 
pepper, one tablespoon of very tine bread crumbs soaked in milk. Rub 
bottom of heated pan with butter; put in cheese, stirring fast; when 
melted, put in butter, next mustard, pepper, lastly crumbs pressed dry. 
Spread, smoking hot, on toast. 

Serve at once. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

One cup of fine bread crumbs, two cups of sweet milk, half pound of 
grated cheese, three eggs whipped light, one small teaspoonful of butter, 
pepper, salt and a pinch of soda dissolved in hot water, then stirred in 
the milk ; add butter, eggs, seasoning and last the cheese. Butter a nice- 
looking baking dish ; pour the mixture into it ; strew over the top some 
fine, stale bread crumbs. Bake in a quick oven. Serve at once. 

VEAL CHEESE. 

Pound separately in a mortar equal quantities of veal and tongue, boiled 
and sliced ; pack in a jar in alternate layers, moistening each layer with 
butter. Begin with a layer of veal, then tongue, etc., so that when the 
cheese is cut it will look variegated. Press it in jar until very solid, then 
pour over the top melted butter. Keep well covered in a dry place. This 
makes very nice sandwiches. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

FANCY DISHBS. 



A GRAND TRIFLE. 

The day before you wish to use it make two or three quarts of boiled 
custard (according to your needs) ; bake some thin sponge cakes as for 
jelly cake ; whip some cream, with sugar and wine to flavor, and blanch 
and chop a pound of almonds. 

Place in a large glass bowl first a layer of cake, then a thin layer of 
almonds, then a thick layer of whipped cream (one-half inch thick), then 
another cake, then more almonds, then more cream, then another cake. 
Pour over all this plenty of custard, then put on more whipped cream, as 
a float, and decorate it with small pieces of red jelly (apple, currant, or 
strawberry jelly) , and slender leaves of preserved orange peel. This is 
delicious and highly ornamental, but some trouble to prepare. Not suita- 
ble for warm weather unless one has ice to keep all the parts in good 
order. Have plenty of the custard — the cake soaks it up, and should 
stand in it all night, if possible. — ]\Irs. Sallie Gotten, North Carolina. 

FRENCH CHESTNUTS WITH COFFEE SAUCE, 

Peel three dozen chestnuts, boil them in their skins (not their shells) for 
five minutes in salted boiling water ; peel off their skins, put them in a 
saucepan on the fire, with enough water to cover them, and two ounces of 
sugar ; boil them until quite soft, without breaking. Put into another 
saucepan over the fire four yolks of egg, three ounces of sugar, a teacupful 
of black (offee, and half a glass of cream. Stir until it begins to boil, then 
strain it. Allow it to become cold, pour it over the chestnuts, and serve. 

SNOW EGGS. 

Put over the fire a quart of rich milk, sweeten and flavor it with orange- 
flower water. Separate the yolks and whites of six fresh eggs, then beat 

[203] 



FANCY DISHES. 203 

the whites to a stiff froth. Drop one spoonful at a time into the boiling 
milk ; turn as quickly as possible, and lift out of the milk with a skimmer ; 
place them on a sieve ; beat up the yolks and stir them into the milk ; let 
them have one boil up and put them in a glass dish. Arrange the whites 
around the edges, and serve cold. This is a pretty dish. 

CHEESE RAMAKINS. 

Take very light puff paste and roll it out evenly. Then grate over it 
Parmesan cheese, or any other kind having a good flavor. Fold the paste 
in three ; roll it out again and grate more cheese over it ; fold the paste ; 
roll it out and cut in any shape desired. The ramakins must be baked with 
a quick heat; fifteen ininutes is sufficient to cook them. Dish on a hot 
n.'ipkin and serve at once. The ramakins look much nicer if brushed over 
with yolk of egg before putting them in the oven to cook. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Take one-quarter of a pound of puff paste and half an ounce of Parmesan 
clieese grated very fine ; add a little salt ; sprinkle the cheese and salt over 
the paste and roll it two or three times ; then cut into narrow strips and 
about five inches long. Bake in a slow oven and send to the table hot. 

AMBROSIA. 

Peel and slice fresh oranges, round, one pineapple sliced thin ; put in a 
deep stand alternate layers of orange, pineapple and grated cocoanut. 
Begin with the oranges, using cocoanut last. Spread between each layer 
finely-powdered sugar. Add sugar to the cocoanut milk and pour over the 

dish . 

SALTED PECANS. 

Prepare the pecans by breaking the shells carefully, so as to have the nut 
in two pieces only ; parch in a pan as you would coffee, stirring briskly 
until of a light brown color. Moisten with a little butter ; after removmg 
from the oven sprinkle with little salt. Place on small individual dishes 
before each guest. —Mrs. P. F Pescud. 



204 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Pour boiling water over shelled almonds and let them stand a short time. 
When the dr}^ brown husk can be easily nibbed off and the almonds are 
"blanched," then stir into melted butter ; let them stand; add salt and 
brown in the oven. When taken from the oven place them upon soft, 
porous paper to prevent their being "buttery." If this is not sufficient 
dry them on a towel. The above is a splendid addition to a luncheon or 
dinner. — Mrs. yohn Fletcher. 

ROAST CHESTNUTS. 

Peel the raw chestnuts and scald them, in order to remove the inner 
skin ; put them in a frying pan with a little butter and toss them about a 
few minutes ; add a little salt and the least sprinkle of cayenne. Serve 
them after the cheese. 

Peanuts may be roasted in the same waj'. 

FROZEN BANANAS. 

Cut six large, ripe, red bananas crosswise, in very thin slices; add half a 
pound of powdered sugar to them, let them stand an hour, then add a quart 
of water and the grated peel of a lemon. When the sugar is dissolved put 
the fruit in the freezer, and freeze as you would ice cream. Pineapples, 
oranges, and berries maybe frozen in the same manner. A pint of cream, 
whipped stiff, may be added if liked. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

Add to one quart of milk eight eggs, leaving out the whites of four; stir 
into this five ounces of sugar ; put a shallow pan of hot water in the oven and 
set the dish of custard in it ; bake until thick, then put aside to cool ; beat 
the four whites solid, add half a pound of sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. When the custard is cold lay the whites over the top in heaps, but 
do not let them touch. 

CAKE SYLLABUB. 

Moisten well a thin sponge cake with sherry wine ; then rub off on 
pieces of loaf sugar the yellow rind of two lemons ; dissolve this sugar in 



FANCY DISHES. 205 

one pint of sweet cream ; add the juice of the lemons to a Uttle more 
sugar ; then add gradually to the cream. Whip the cream until solid ; then 
pile it on the cake, which has been put in a glass bowl. Pile the cream 
until it stands high above the edge of bowl. Ornament the top with straw- 
berries or bits of solid fruit jelly. 

This makes a verj' pretty as well as a delicious dish. 

SYLLABUB. 

Mix with one quart of very sweet cream one-half pound of fine white 
sugar; put it aside a few minutes, then add six wineglasses of best Madeira 
or sherry wine ; whip to a stiff froth with an egg beater. Serve in glasses. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Stew the apples, add a little lemon peel and juice ; line the sides and 
bottom of the dish two inches thick ; make a custard of one pint of milk 
and three eggs ; when cold pour it in the middle of the dish. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth and spread over the top ; Sprinkle a little sugar 
over it and brown in the oven. 

LEMON SOUFFLE. 

The yolks of six eggs, six ounces of sugar, grated rind of one lemon ; 
beat well, then add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, also the juice of a 
lemon. Put into a pudding dish and bake twenty minutes. Serve with a 
sauce made of three eggs, the juice of one lemon, and half of the rind 
grated. 

MOONSHINE. 

Take a glass of tart jelly and beat up until easy to work with. Beat the 
whites of six eggs to a stiff froth ; add six level tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
flavor to taste ; add the jelly and beat until stiff enough to stand in a pretty 
erect way on a flat dish. Make a sauce of one and a half teacupfuls of 
sweet cream and the whites of two eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
adding sugar and flavoring to taste ; add the cream and beat briskly until 
the whole mixture is brought to a stiff froth. Stir a little lemon or vanilla 
into the eggs before mixing with the cream. Serve "the moonshine in 
pretty dishes and pile the sauce on top. If made of some rich colored jelly, 
moonshine is a very ornamental dish. —Mrs. Judge Halley, 



206 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 
Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, a tablespoonful of sugar to each 
white (powdered), into which beat a little red jelly to give it color. Whip 
a pint of cream, seasoned and sweetened to taste. Pour the preparation 
over it and serve with cake. — Mrs. Gov. lioss, Austin, Texas. 

RASPBERRIES AND STRAWBERRIES, 

Cap the fruit ; wash before capping. They should not lay in the water 
long, neither should the fruit be washed too much. Strawberries wilt verj 
soon after the sugar is put upon them ; if to be kept any length of time it 
is better not to cap and sugar them until a couple of hours before serving ; 
then put alternate layers of sugar and fruit in a glass dish, and put in a 
cool place until wanted. 

Pineapples inay be sliced very thin, mixed wi::h powdered sugar, and 
placed on ice until ready to serve. Pineapples should always be sliced 
lengthwise, in order to avoid the hard cores in the center, 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES. 

Mash fine ripe berries, make some sweeter than for the table ; as soon 
as the juice is drawn out, freeze, and serve with cream or ice cream. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

Mix well together two quarts of fresh, rich milk, two teacupfuls of 
good sugar ; put it into the freezer with ice and salt packed closely around 
it. When the milk is very cold, stir into it one quart of peaches, mashed 
and sweetened ; mix together well and freeze, 

FROZEN PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Peel and slice ripe peaches, perfectly fresh and sound. When sliced 
mix with cream and sugar to taste ; freeze. 

BISCUIT GLACE A LA CHARLES DICKENS. 

One pint of sj^rup (32 deg.), fifteen yolks of eggs, three gills of peach 
pulp, colored pink with cochineal, one gill of noyeau, half a pint of thick 
cream and a little chocolate water-ice, made with half a pmt of syrup and 
four ounces of the best chocolate smoothly mixed and frozen ready. 



FANCY DISHES. 207 

Mix syrup, yolks, peach pulps, noyeau and a few drops of vanilla ; whip 
high ; mix with the whipped cream and set in ice for one hour and a half 
in brick-shaped moulds ; then turn out (if very firm) and cut in slices an 
inch thick and coat them all over, or on top and sides, with the chocolate 
ice, smoothing with a knife dipped in cold water. 

Serve in paper cases. —Catherine Owen. 



MELANGE GLACE. 

Take the juice and grated rind of four oranges, the juice and grated rind 
of four lemons, four bananas broken in pieces, being careful not to use a 
knife about the bananas, and mix with a liquid made of two quarts of 
water, very hot; four cups of sugar or more, as the taste may demand, 
one-half box of Cox' gelatine ; all the ingredients of the liquid brought to 
a boil on the stove. Set on the ice until thoroughly chilled, and then 
freeze. When about half frozen add one quart of sweet cream, whipped to 
a stiff froth with the whites of six fresh eggs. Then freeze till very hard, 
pack in ice and leave for several hours to ripen. Some regard the addition 
of grated pineapple a great addition. Other fruits may be added or substi- 
tuted. The juice of ripe raspberries that have stood in sugar for several 
hours is a great addition. Of course, when you use the raspberry juice 
you must decrease the amount of the water by the amount of juice used, 
the addition of the cream and eggs is entirely optional, some preferring 
the " melange" without it. Be careful to use only earthen vessels in the 
preparation of this dainty. — Mrs. Judge Halley, Newton, Illinois. 

JELLIED FRUITS. 

Take one box of Cox' gelatine ; dissolve in hot water ; add four lem- 
ons, sugar to taste. One can of fruit sweetened to taste and heated through. 
When thoroughly mixed, put the mixture on the stove and allow to stay 
there about five minutes, stirring with a steady motion all the time. Put 
in a pretty mould and set aside to congeal. When ice-cold dip the mould 
in boiling hot water and turn out on a flat dish. This makes a delicious 
dessert served with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. Judge Halley, Newton., Illinois. 



208 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Select some fine ripe bananas and slice them lengthwise the thickness ol 
a silver dollar ; lay in a dish and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Have 
ready some thick creain, which must be whipped to a froth. Pour over the 
bananas one pint of sherry wine and then the whipped cream. Set on the 
ice and allow it to remain for several hours. This is dehcious. 

— Mrs. jfohn Fletcher. 

FRIED PLANTAINS. 

Peel and slice the plantains, sprinkle with sugar and fry in very hot but- 
ter. When served, sprinkle a little more sugar over them. 

BAKED PLANTAINS. 

Peel and put in a baking dish, either whole or cut in squares, then 
sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, and add a large lump of butter. Put in 
the stove and bake, basting several times while cooking, to prevent being 
dry. —Mrs. P. F. Pescud. 

RATAFIAS. 

Blanch two ounces each of bitter and sweet almonds, put the almonds 
into a mortar with half pound of lump sugar, pound until fine and pass it 
through a wire sieve, then add the whites of five eggs, mixing on*^ at a 
time. Continue to pound and mix with the pestle until it is formed into a 
stiff paste ; then drop this paste on white letter paper about the size of a 
dollar (each drop) at equal distances from each other, put slips of blanched 
almonds on each drop, dust with white sugar and bake until they are 
browned throughout. 

PETITS CHOUX. 

Put in a stewpan over the fire two ounces of fine white sugar, six ounces 
of fresh butter, half stick of vanilla, little salt, and half a pint of water ; as 
it begins to boil stir into it three tablespoons of sifted flour \ stir it con- 
stantly until it forms a tough paste ; remove from the fire and stir into it 
seven eggs, one at a time, mixing them well with the paste. Lay upon a 
buttered sheet the paste in pieces about the size of an English walnut, &^<g 



FANCY DISHES. 



209 



them over and dust with white sugar. Bake in a moderate oven, and when 
cold open the top of each and fill it with jam or marmalade. Put on the 
lid and serve upon a napkin. 



WATERMELON FOR TEA. 

Take a fine ripe watermelon, put it on ice until it becomes very cold ; 
cut the melon, removing the seeds, then cut into fancy shapes pieces suffi- 
cient in size for one mouthful. Place the melon into glass dish, sprinkling 
a little fine sugar over the first layer, then another layer of the fruit, then 
sugar, and so on until you fill the dish. Sprinkle sugar on top, return to 
refrigerator. Dish and eat as any other kind of fruit. Delightful. 

Melons. — Melons are much nicer if kept on ice until time for serving. 
A bright red watermelon looks very pretty if cut through the middle cross- 
wise, in points. Cut a piece off each end so as to stand level on the platter. 
Cantaloupe melons should have the seeds removed before sending to the 
table. Cut the melon in half, and place a piece of ice on each piece. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Peel soft ripe peaches, quarter the fruit; put a layer of peaches in dish, 
then sprinkle thick with sugar, alternate in this way until the desired quan- 
tity is prepared. Sprinkle a very heavy coat of fine sugar on top of fruit; 
set the dish on ice an hour or two before using ; serve in small dishes and 
and eat with sweet, rich cream. 

BANANAS AND CREAM. 
Peel, slice and pile in a glass dish. Serve with sugar and cream. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Take half a dozen sweet oranges ; peel, then cut into thin slices ; lay 
the slices in a glass dish ; sprinkle with sugar, then oranges again, alter- 
nating, until all have been used. Squeeze over this the juice of three 
oranges, pouring over the whole a glass of good wine, being very generous 
with the sugar. 



210 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

ORANGES. 

Slice and mix with powdered sugar ; place on a dish and strew grated 
cocoanut over the top. Another pretty style of preparing oranges : quarter 
the skins, leaving the pulp whole, leaving the rind attached at the stem 
end, turning each piece into points. Form in a pyramid with bananas 
and white grapes. 

PEACH COMPOTE. 

Pare the fruit ; let it remain whole ; put in a porcelain-lined kettle, with 
sweetened water ; boil until quite tender ; add to the fruit some cinnamon 
bark and a few cloves. When tender remove from the kettle with a per- 
forated skimmer and place on your fruit dish. When the syrup has boiled 
thick pour over the fruit. Little wine added to the peaches while cooking 
is an improvement. When cold serve with sweet cream. 

APPLE COMPOTE. 

Take twelve "Greenings;" pare, quarter and core them; drop in cold 
water. Put the apple parings in a pan, adding one pint of water and the 
same of white wine ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes ; pass the contents 
through a sieve ; place on the fire again with half pound of white sugar 
and some lemon peel ; drop the apples in and stew them slowly for a few 
minutes or until tender. Place each piece of the fruit on a dish to cool ; 
boil down the syrup to about half the quantity you had after taking out the 
apples, and add the juice of half a lemon. Pour the syrup over the fruit 
and serve. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

One and a half pints of clear stock ; if amber jelly is made beef must be 
used, and for white jelly use chicken or veal. Soak half a box of gelatine 
one and a half hours in half a cupful of cold water ; add salt, a stalk of 
celery, one dozen pepper corns, two shoes of onion, three cloves ; beat the 
white of one egg with a spoonful of the cold stock Put all of the mixture 



FANCY DISHES. 211 

over the fire, and when it begins to boil, remove from the fire, putting it 
where it will slightly simmer twenty-five minutes. Strain the jelly through 
a cloth and put into a mould and set in a cold place to get hard. 



A CALIFORNIA DISH. 



One fresh tongue. 



One bottle of olives. 

T-wo dozen large bright red peppers. 

Squeeze the juice of two large lemons in a teacup and fill up with vin- 
egar, one teaspoonful of powdered summer savory, two tablespoonfuls of 
finely-chopped onion and olive oil. Dissolve half teacupful of salt in 
enough boiling water to cover the tongues and cook until done ; skin and 
cut into very thin slices. Cut open the peppers the long way ; take out 
every seed and vein ; cut off the stem end ; drop the skins into an agate 
kettle of boiling water and keep at boiling heat for two hours ; it must not 
even simmer or the flaver will be lost. Skim into a chopping bowl and be 
sure to press out all the water. Chop to a pulp and pass through a sieve ; 
then add oil and vinegar by spoonful ; cut the olives off the stones and put 
in last. Dip each slice of tongue in the sauce and pile in a dish, rather 
deep, and pour over the remaining sauce. Serve next day. This is good 
with roast turkey, cold ham or fried oysters. 

VEAL PIE. 

Boil a knuckle of veal with little salt until it drops from the bone, then 
take out all the meat and boil the bone and gristle until the liquor will turn 
to jelly when cold. Next morning have some sliced hard-boiled eggs 
and some very small pieces of breakfast bacon. Then take a deep 
dish and put in a layer of veal, then a layer of the hard-boiled eggs, 
and a layer of the breakfast bacon, then a layer of the veal, and so on until 
the dish is full. Then melt the jelly from the liquor, season with pepper 
and salt and pour all over the pie, then put on a top of puff paste, and 
leave one or two vents for the steam to escape, and bake in a rather quick 
oven. As soon as the paste is done take it out and let get stone cold before 
eating. This is most delicious for a supper or luncheon. Also much used 
for " picnics." —Mrs. E. A. B. 



CHAPTER XVIL 

CRKAMS, CUSTARDS, KTC. 



WHIPPED CREAM. 

To one pint of sweet cream, add the whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, live tablespoonfuls of sweet wine, three of pulverized sugar, one 
teaspoonful of lemon extract. Mix all together and whip until it stands 
solid ; remove the froth as it rises with a spoon and put it on an inverted 
sieve with a dish under it to catch that which ma}^ drain through, and whip 
that which drains through again. Keep on ice or in a veiy cool place. 

GENOESE CREAM. 

One tablespoon of flour, one of powdered sugar, yolks of three eggs bit 
of butter the size of half an egg. Rub together the flour and sugar ; add 
one pint of milk and mix it well; set it over a slow fire ; when warm, add 
(without beating) the eggs and butter and stir constantly until it thickens. 
Drop pieces of sponge cake in wine ; lay them in the dish and pour the 
cream over them. Have some pistachio nuts and citron chopped fine and 
stir some in the cream while boiling and spread some thickly over the cake 
just before the cream is poured on it. Flavor with little essence of lemon. 
Eat it cold. ' —Mrs. J. C. Spencer. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One pint of fresh or canned pineapple, one cup of sugar, one pint of 
cream, half a package of gelatine, half a cup of cold water. Soak gelatine 
until thoroughly dissolved. After chopping the pineapple fine, put in a 
kettle with the sugar, and simmer twenty minutes. Add the gelatine and 
strain at once into a pan. Rub the pineapple through the sieve. Beat it 
until thick enough, then the cream may be added, well whipped to a stiff 
froth. After mixing it thoroughly pour into a wet mould, place in a very 
cold place to become hard. Serve with whipped cream. 

[213] 



CREAMS, CUSTARDS, ETC. 213 

DEVONSHIRE CREAM. 

Have a large round tin pan that will fit in the top of a pot in such a way 
that it will be about three inches from the water. Pour three or four quarts 
of fresh milk from the cow into the pan ; put in a very cool place and let it 
stand twelve hours ; have water boiling in a pot, and set the tin of milk 
carefully on top. Do not touch the milk ; the water must boil all the time, 
until a line of bubbles half an inch wide form all around the pan of milk. 
The milk must not boil. Take it off and set in a cool place for a few 
hours ; then skim off the cream with a skiinmer. This is delicious on fresh 
fruits, preserves, pies, or anything that milk is suited to go on. The luilk 
is good for any kind of cooking. 

COCOANUT CREAM. 

Grate a fresh cocoanut and mix with it an ounce of sugar ; melt in as 
little water as possible three-fourths ounce of gelatine, whip the whites of 
three eggs, mix with them one-half a pint of milk, stir over the fire until 
the custard thickens. Sweeten with six tablespoonfuls of sugar, stir the 
gelatine and a full half pint of grated cocoanut, with the cocoanut milk, into 
the custard ; whip half a pint of cream (solid) and stir it very carefully into 
the custard. When the batter is quite cold (but before it sets) flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. Mould and place on the ice. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Two tablespoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in half a tumbler of water, one 
pint of rich cream, four tablespoonfuls of sugar ; flavor with sherry, vanilla, 
extract of rose water. Put in moulds and set on the ice. This is a deli- 
cious dessert; it can be made in a few minutes. Serve with or without 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Add to one quart of fresh cream or milk one ounce of the best chocolate ; 
sweeten to the taste; stir well while boiling. Have ready the whites of 
six eggs beaten well ; pour the chocolate over the beaten eggs ; stir thor- 
oughly and quickly ; strain through a sieve. 

Flavor with vanilla. Serve cold. 

69 



214 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Peel and core six large apples ; boil in a small quantity of water until 
they can be strained or pressed through a sieve. Sweeten to taste and beat 
the whites of six eggs ; mix with the apples ; put in a glass dish and serve 
with cream poured over them. 

ALMOND CREAM. 

Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds ; pound in a mortar ; add 
six ounces of white sugar and mix them well with the yolks of four eggs 
beaten light. Dissolve one ounce of Cox' gelatine in a quart of boiling 
milk ; strain and pour it into the other ingredients ; stir it all over a mod- 
erate fire until sufficiently thick and smooth. Pour into your mould and 
keep until needed. When ready to serve, plunge the mould in warm 
water; wipe the mould and turn out the cream carefully upon your dish. 

HAZELNUT CREAM. 

Put a pint of hazelnut kernels into a warm oven to dry ; when dry 
(while warm) rub them between two coarse towels, to get rid of as inuch 
as possible the skins from the nuts. Pound the nuts to a paste, with a little 
white of egg. Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs and half a pint of 
milk. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a gill of water; mix it with six 
ounces of powdered sugar and add to the custard when nearly cold. Stir 
in the nut paste, taking care that it is well mixed with the custard. Then 
add half a pint of cream whipped solid. Flavor with vanilla. Mould and 
set on the ice. 

WALNUT CREAM. 

Pound one pint of these nuts, after rubbing them well in a cloth. Make 
the same custard as for hazelnut cream. Stir in the walnut paste until 
smooth ; add whipped cream ; color a pale pink with cochineal, and flavor 
with vanilla. Mould and set on ice. Serve with whipped cream, flavored 
with wine. 

RUSSIAN CREAM. 

To six pints of fresh milk add one full cup of sugar, half box of gelatine, 
four eggs well beaten, vanilla to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in part of the 



CREAMS, CUSTARDS, ETC. 215 

milk ; then add eggs and sugar. When it begins to boil remove from the 
fire. When cream is quite cold, add the whites of eggs. Pour into mould 
and ser\^e with cream, if liked. 



BANANA CREAM. 

Get fresh bananas ; after peeling, mash them verj^ fine, allowing equal 
quantities of bananas and sweet cream ; to every quart of the mixture use 
one-fourth pound of sugar. Beat very hard all together until light. 

PERSIAN CREAM. 

Dissolve one ounce of Cox' gelatine in a pint of sweet milk, then stram, 
place in a saucepan with three ounces of sugar. When it comes to a boil 
stir into it one-half pint of fresh sweet cream ; then add this mixture, at 
first very slowly in a small quantity to eight ounces of jam or preserved 
fruit; mix until smooth, and stir until cold, in order that the fruit may not 
sink to the bottom of mould ; when the liquid is added to the fruit and 
stirred until quite cold, beat briskly together, lastly add the strained juice 
of a lemon. Put in a mould and let it remain twelve or fourteen hours in 
a cool place before serving. 

PINK CREAM. 

Mix with half a pound of fine powdered sugar three gills of strawberry 
or currant juice, half pint of fresh cream ; whisk until thoroughly mixed ; 
serve in a glass dish. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Squeeze the juice of three lemons into a quart of fresh milk ; add the 
peel • cut up ; cover it over for an hour or two ; then add six eggs beaten 
very licrht and very nearly a pint of water sweetened. Strain and simmer 
very slowly until it becomes thick, being very careful that it does not boil. 
Serve cold. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Soak one box of Cox' gelatine in a pint of cold water. Sweeten one 
quart of fresh cream ; add to gelatine and season with lemons. Put in a 
cold place. When firm eat with cream, seasoned with wine. 



216 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Whip a pint of cream until there will be but one-half the quantity left 
when skimmed off. Soak half a package of gelatine with half a cup of 
cold water; grate into it the rind of two oranges, one cup of sugar; then 
put the half pint of unwhipped cream into a double boiler ; pour the yolks 
of six eggs, well beaten, into it; stir constantly until it begins to thicken, 
then add the gelatine. Remove from the fire and after it stands a couple 
of minutes add the orange juice and sugar. Beat all together until about 
as thick as boiled custard ; then add the whipped cream. After mixing 
thoroughly, put into moulds to harden. Serve with sweetened cream. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in a little cold water half an hour ; then place 
over boiling water and add one gill of strong Coffaroma coffee and one gill 
of sugar. When the gelatine is dissolved take from the fire ; stir in three 
gills of cream and put into moulds. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

One-half package gelatine, one pint of water ; soak twenty minutes ; 
add two cups of sugar; set on the stove and let it come to a boil; when 
nearly cold add the whites of four eggs beaten stiff, the juice and rind of 
two lemons and pour into a mould ; turn over the form. Make a custard 
of the yolks of four eggs, a quart of milk and a small tablespoon of corn 
starch ; sweeten to taste, 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, yolks of five eggs and the whites of seven (two for 
the meringue), six tablespoonfuls of sugar; flavor with vanilla ; heat the 
milk almost to boiHng ; beat the yolks very light, then stir in the sugar. 
Add the milk as follows : Remove the milk from the fire ; add a spoonful 
or two of hot milk to the eggs at a time ; beat hard ; add more and more 
milk as you mix ; stir in five whites whipped solid ; return to the fire and 
stir constantly until thick, but not until it breaks. Pour into glass cups; 
whip the whites of two eggs to a meringue with a heaping tablespoonful 
of sugar. When the custard is cold, pile a little of this upon the top of 
each cup. You may lay a little bright jelly upon each cup or a preserved 
cherry. 



CREAMS, CUSTARDS, ETC. 217 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Beat the yolks of four fresh eggs at least twenty-five minutes, then add five 
ounces of pulverized white sugar ; then stir into the sugar and eggs one quart 
of rich milk; when cold, one teaspoonful of rose water, or any extract pre- 
ferred. Fill the custard cups and place in a stone pan half filled with water, 
little warm at first — not hot. Put the pan in a rather cool oven, gradually 
increase to a moderate heat. In about twenty mmutes dip a teaspoon into 
one of the custards to see if it is firm. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Three ounces Baker's chocolate, three pints milk, four tablespoons white 
sugar, two tablespoons of brown sugar ; prepare a soft custard of the milk 
and the yolks of five eggs, the whites of one ; dissolve the chocolate in a cup 
of warm milk ; heat it to a boiling point ; when cool sweeten with brown 
sugar and flavor with the extract of vanilla, pour into a dish, cover with 
whites of five eggs beaten stiff, with a little sugar ; brown slightly ; serve 
cold. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, WITH PINEAPPLE. 

Peel and cut a pineapple in slices ; put with the slices in a stewpan half 
a pound of fine white sugar, half an ounce of patent gelatine and half a 
teacupful of water ; stew slowly until very tender ; carry through a sieve ; 
put upon ice ; stir it well. Just as it is upon the point of setting, add a 
pint of cream well whipped ; mix it well and pour into a mould lined with 
sponge cake or lady fingers. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Dissolve one-fourth package of gelatine in enough water to cover it, then 
make a custard of one quart of milk and yolks of four eggs and enough 
sugar to sweeten, stir in the gelatine and mix all together on the stove until 
it thickens ; then turn into a bowl to cool, adding a little vanilla and sherry 
wine to flavor to suit your taste. When cool, stir in the whites of four 
eggs, after they have been beaten to a stiff froth ; line the moulds with 
slices of sponge cake after dipping it into a mixture of sherry wine and 
suo"ar and water, just enough to moisten the cake ; fill the moulds with the 
mixture, and set one side to get stiff, then turn out on a dish to eat. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ICK CRKAMS, KTC. 



For family use select the best patent freezer, have plenty of ice and rock 
salt, which is much better than common salt. If you desire rich cream, 
and good cream, none but the purest article should be used. You can not 
expect to make rich ice cream of milk. When the cream is ready to freeze 
rinse the can with cold water, also the paddle. Before packing see that 
the pail rests on the pivot, and cover well. The ice should be cracked in 
pieces not quite as large as a guinea egg. Pack the ice closely around the 
pail to the height of the freezer, putting alternate laj-ers of ice and salt 
several inches higher than the creaiu is in the freezer. Pack firmly, 
allowing two pounds of coarse salt to six pounds of ice. Turn the crank 
slowly and evenl}', as this is the way to insure smooth, velvety cream. 
When you can not turn the crank, examine, and you will see that the water 
has reached the hole in the freezer, if so your freezing is complete. Then 
pour off all the water, wipe off yery carefully the top of the freezer, as great 
care must be used in order that no salt should get into the cream ; as Pve 
known whole freezers of cream spoiled in this inanner. The cream should 
be firmly packed after removing the paddle. Cover \'ery closely, put a 
cork into the hole of the cream pail. Cover over with a woollen blanket ; 
set the tub in a cool place until servdng time. Dip the can in water slightly 
warm, let it remain a few seconds, wipe it dry and turn on the dish. 

There are a great many good freezers in use. In making cream great 
care should be observed in seeing that every part of the freezer is nicely 
washed and dried before putting it away. The cogs on freezers should be 
kept well oiled. 

You will find that it takes much more time to freeze water ices than 
cream, and more salt is required. 

FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of milk, six eggs, about one and a half pounds of sugar, one, 
and a half tablespoonfuls of Bennuda arrowroot. Cook as a custard. 
When cold flavor with vanilla. Then add one pound of figs, one-quarter 
pound citron, and other fruits cut fine. Freeze like ice cream. 

■[218] 



ICE CREAMS, ETC. 219 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

To two heaping tablespoons of best grated chocolate add one quart of 
thick cream, one cupful of sugar; mix the chocolate into a thin paste, using 
about three-fourths cup of milk ; then mix all together ; season with vanilla 
and freeze. 

COCOANUT ICE CREAM. 

Take a fresh cocoanut ; grate it fine, one cupful and a half of sugar, rind 
and juice of a lemon ; mix this with one quart of sweet cream. Freeze, 
and during the process keep the cream well stirred from the bottom and 
sides. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM. 

Cut in halves and stone one and a half dozen of ripe apricots ; take the 
meats out of the stones ; blanch them in hot water and put them with the 
apricots into a porcelain pan, with one pound of white sugar and one glass 
of water ; let the whole boil to a soft pulp ; rub through a sieve and let 
stand until wanted. When ready for freezing, add gradually to the apricots 
one quart of the best sweet cream. Mix thoroughly and freeze. Clear the 
sides often and continue freezing until the cream assumes a stiff, smooth 
mellow substance. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

To one quart of the juice of fresh strawberries add two pounds of fine 
white suo-ar and two quarts of cream ; mix well and freeze. Raspberries, 
pineapple and other fruits may be made in the same manner. 

CRUSHED STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

To three pints of sweet cream, twelve ounces pulverized sugar, twc 
whole eo-o-s, one spoonful vanilla. Mix, place over the fire, stirring con- 
stantly until it reaches a boil; remove from the fire, strain, and pass it 
throuo-h a hair sieve into the freezer. Crush to a pulp one quart of ripe 
strawberries, with six ounces pulverized sugar. Mix this pulp well with the 
frozen cream, and give the freezer a few more turns to harden. Very fine. 



220 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

One quart of good cream, half a pint of strong coffee, fourteen ounces of 
pulverized sugar, yolks of six eggs ; mix well sugar, eggs and cream ; put 
into the freezer. Stir thoroughly; when half frozen, add the coffee. Beat 
very hard and freeze . 

TEA ICE CREAM, 

To one pound granulated sugar put one pint of strong green tea, one 
and a half pints of cream, two quarts of milk and ver}^ little cinnamon 
water. Let the whole simmer one minute, not stirring, but keeping mix- 
ture in motion by gently moving round the pan. Freeze in the usual way. 
This makes quite a large quantity. One-fourth of the quantity will suffice 
for a small family. 

Chocolate and coffee ice creams are very fine made in this way. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Make the cream as for "vanilla ice-cream." Procure nice soft peaches 
and chop in small pieces ; sweeten to taste, mix with yorr cream, and 
freez . 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

To three pints of rich cream add one pound of pulverized sugar. Grate 
six large bananas into the cream and freeze. 

NESSELRODE ICE CREAM. 

Take one pound of chestnuts, boil until tender, peel and grate, then mix 
well with a pint of milk. Beat until light the yolks of thirteen eggs, add 
to them one and a half pounds of pulverized sugar, also three pints of boil- 
ing cream, in which you have boiled a vanilla bean and four ounces of 
chocolate. Strain and stir until quite cold. Add apricot marmalade, and 
any kind of candied fruits that maj^ be preferred, chopped fine. Then 
freeze very gently. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Cut a vanilla bean into small pieces, boil it in a teacup of fresh milk; 
when it cools add to two quarts of sweet thick cream (first strain the boiled 
milk) ; sweeten with two heaping cups of powdered sugar ; beat it to a 



« ICE CREAMS, ETC. 221 

stiff froth. Put the cream into the freezer and when it begins to freeze stir 
from the sides with a large spoon or paddle, beating very hard. Beat every 
time the freezer is opened. When frozen put in a dark place and throw a 
blanket over it until needed. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Take one quart of sweet rich cream, eight ounces of pulverized sugar, 
three whole eggs, one teaspoonful extract of lemon ; put on the fire and 
stir constantly until it begins to boil ; then remove and strain into the 
freezer. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

To one gallon of rich cream add six lemons ; sqeeze the juice from the 
lemons ; first grate the yellow rind off, and put in a piece of thin cloth. 
After straining the lemon juice soak the bag of peel in it, squeezing the bag 
often till it becomes colored by it. Add two teacups of sugar. 

ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of good cream, one-half pint of milk, fourteen ounces of 
white sugar, two eggs ; beat the eggs and sugar together, as for cake, before 
mixing with the cream ; flavor to suit the taste. Place the can in the 
freezer, then put in alternate layers of pounded ice and salt; use freely of 
salt in order to make the cream freeze quickly ; stir immediately and con- 
stantly ; stir rapidly as it begins to freeze, to make it perfectly smooth ; stir 
slower as it gets pretty stiff. As the ice melts draw off the water, fill up 
with fresh layers of ice and salt. 

FRENCH VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One quart of very rich sweet cream, half a pound of granulated sugar, 
and the yolks of six eggs. Put the cream and sugar in a porcelain kettle 
over the fire ; when they come to a boil strain through a hair sieve, then 
add the eggs, well beaten, slowly to the cream and sugar while hot; stir 
rapidly. Place on the fire again ; stir a few minutes ; pour into the freezer, 
and flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. 



223 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. • 

PURE ICE CREAM. 

Take pure sweet cream ; to two quarts of cream add one pound of sugar ; 
beat up, flavor to taste, and freeze. 

ITALIAN ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

To one pint of the best cream add twelve ounces of pulverized sugar, the 
juice of six oranges, rind of three grated, and put in a muslin bag, soaked 
in the orange juice after it has been strained ; squeeze the bag often, giving 
color to the juice. Add the j'olks of eight eggs well beaten; extract of 
orange, one teaspoonful ; then put in the freezer and freeze. 

FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

Procure well ripened fruit ; when well picked put into an earthen bowl ; 
mash the frviit with a wooden spoon, pass it through a hair sieve, sweeten 
to taste, and to one pint of fruit juice allow the same of sweet fresh cream, 
well whipped. Mix the cream and juice, beating again for three or four 
minutes. Freeze and serve. 

In sweetening the cream, put a teacup of sugar to each quart. Add the 
juice gradually, stirring carefully. Froth and freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Add to one pound of pulverized sugar two quarts of pure rich cream ; 
beat four eggs very light and add to the above, after mixing well ; put the 
whole on the fire and stir constantly until it begins to boil ; remove from 
fire and stir two minutes ; season with vanilla ; put into a freezer and when 
about half frozen, add to it one pound of preser\'ed fruits (in equal parts 
cut in small pieces), cherries, peaches, pineapples, apricots, etc. Mix well 
with the cream and freeze. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

Blanch and grate one pound pistachio nuts. Put one quart of spinach 
in a kettle and boil, drain and pound until reduced to a pulp. Squeeze the 
juice out through a flannel cloth. Put half a gallon of cream and a pound 
of sugar on to boil ; scir until sugar dissolves, then set aside to cool. When 



ICE CREAMS, ETC. 223 

cold add the nuts, flavoring, and half gallon more of rich cream. Mix in 
the spinach juice to color. Turn into the freezer and freeze. When hard 
remove the dasher from the freezer ; beat the cream and set aside to 
harden. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Three pints of sweet cream, one pint of good brown sugar; put in a 
saucepan and stir constantly until dissolved. Stir well or it will burn. 
While the sugar is melting, stir into it half a pint of milk. Strain the mix- 
ture, and when cold pour it into the cream, which has been well beaten. 
Mix well and freeze. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM. 

Three pints of ver^' rich cream, one quart of fresh clabber; boil in a tea- 
cup of sweet inilk one vanilla bean ; sweeten to taste ; one can of con- 
densed milk. Churn three minutes and freeze. 

BISQUE. 

To one gallon of very rich boiled custard add three and a half pounds 
of macaroon almonds ; the latter must be put in before removing custard 
from fire. When cold, freeze. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Select sweet fresh strawberries, one quart; mash the fruit smoothly; 
three pints of water, the juice of one lemon added to it and strained over 
one lio-ht pound of white sugar ; squeeze the cloth well, and after mixing 
thoroughly, strain and place in ice three hours before needing it. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Grate two pineapples. Boil together one quart of granulated sugar and 
two quarts of water ; when thick, pour it over the grated pineapple. Add 
the whites of four eggs beaten very stiff and the juice of two lemons. Put 
in a freezer and freeze. 



1^24 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

INIix with the juice of six lemons, one and three-fourths pounds cf good 
white sugar. Pour over the rinds of lemons two quarts of water (while 
boiling). Stir the water into the sugar and juice; ber>t five eggs to a stiff 
froth (the whites). Put the whole into the freezer, and when slightly 
frozen add one pint of good cream, whites of eggs stirred well together. 
Then freeze. 

PINK SHERBET. 

Take one pint of currant jelly and dissolve in one quart and a half of 
boiling water; two cups of sugar, juice of three lemons, dissolve well and 
strain through a fine cloth, and freeze. 

If you have not the currant, either plum or grape jelly is very nice. 
When almost well enough frozen the whites of four eggs, well beaten, must 
be added. 

For parties or receptions, where a larger quantity is needed, it is verj' 
nice to make one freezer full of white and another of pink sherbet, and 
serve both white and pink on each dish. This arrangement is very pretty 
and gives variety. — Mrs. yudge Dills., Sherman, Texas. 

WATERMELON SHERBET. 

Boil down pale sherry with loaf sugar until quite a thick syrup. When 
cold mix with fine sweet melon chopped very fine (using only the heart of 
the melon). Freeze as 3'ou would ice, but should not be too hard. Serve 
in glasses. 

MILK SHERBET. 

One quart of rich milk sweetened to suit your taste ; flavor with vanilla 
and freeze. When nearly frozen, squeeze the juice of one lemon into the 
sherbet and stir well with a large spoon, and continue to freeze until solid. 

—Mrs. P. F. Pescud, New Orleans, La. 

LEMON ICE. 

One quart of water, juice of four lemons, one pound of sugar ; strain the 
syrup, and when ready to freeze beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth 
and add. 



ICE CREAMS, ETC. 225 

ORANGE ICE. 



Squeeze the juice of six good oranges and two lemons ; pour over the 
broken peel and pulp five gills of boiling water, let it cool ; strain and add 
the water to the orange and lemon juice. Sweeten to suit the taste with 



loaf sugar. Freeze. 



PINEAPPLE ICE. 



Grate fine one pineapple, strain through a sieve, add the juice of two 
lemons, one cup of water, sweeten to taste. Strain into the freezer and 
freeze it as ice cream. 

RASPBERRY ICE. 

Mix with the juice of one quart of ripe raspberries half pint ripe currants, 
one and three-quarter pounds of fine white sugar, three pints of water, juice 
of two lemons ; strain, mix well, and freeze. In this manner all juicy 
fruits may be frozen. 

CURRANT ICE. 

To one pint of currant juice add one pound of sugar, one pint of water ; 
when partly frozen add the whites of two eggs well beaten, and freeze. 

APRICOT ICE. 

Take two dozen apricots, pare and grate, blanching a few of the kernels ; 
when well pounded add to the fruit which has been grated. Pour over this 
a pint of water, also the juice of one lemon. When it has stood for about 
one hour, strain, adding a pound of sugar as you begin to freeze. 

APRICOT ICE. 

Over one box of gelatine put enough cold water to cover, let stand half 
an hour, then add one quart of boiling water, the juice of six or eight 
lemons and sugar enough to please the taste. Stir well, strain through a 
clean cloth and set aside to cool. To the above add one can of apricots — 
fresh fruit is better in season — that have been peeled- and run through a 
sieve. Mix well together and freeze. When the ice begins to harden add 
the beaten whites of four eggs. If canned fruit is used, the juice, of course, 
is used. -Mrs. y. P. Hird. 



CHAPTER XIX. 
SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 



VEGETABLE sour. II. CLEAR BEEF SOUP. 11 F. SOUPS OF VABaOUS MEATS. IV. FISH SOUPS. 

V. BOILED DISHES. VI. STEWINCi. VII. HOW TO JLVIvE STOCK. VIII. TO CLAEIFY STOCK OR 

SOUP. IX. TO COLOU SOUPS. X. ROASTED AXD BAKED MEATS. XI. BEEF A LA MODE. XII. 

PEEPAB.IKG THE BOAST. XIII. EO.VST SADDLE OF VENISON. XIV. FOWL AND TDEKEY. XV. 

BAKED HAM. X\l. BAKED BEANS. XVII. BKOILINU AND FEYING. XVIII. PKEPAEED DISHES 

BAKED. XIX. PASTRY Foil MEAT PIES. XX. INGEEDIENTS FOE MEAT PIES. XXI. DISHES OF 

EGGS. XXII. STEjVjMEI) DISHES. 

I. Vegetable Soup. 

p-HIS is the soup most commonly made in the United States; it is excellent with 
the family dinner. Take a beef shanlv, crush the bone and put into cold water. 
Bring it to a boil and skim. Cook four hours, so that when done there shall 
ii. be about two cjuarts of soup to each three or four pounds of meat. If turnips 
and carrots are used, put them in sliced as soon as the liquid is first skimijied. When 





SOUP OR STEW POT AND LID. 



SKILLET AND LID. 



the soup is half done, add a pint of peeled tomatoes for each gallon of soup, and in 
an hour more half a pint of young okra sliced. Half an hour before it is served, 
add a quarter of a pound of sliced potatoes, and the same of green corn grated from 
the cob. The season of the year and the opportunities for getting vegetables will 
readily suggest substitutes. If okra or tomatoes cannot be had, thicken with a little 
flour and rice. If onions are liked, flavor with them, but lightly, and also with salt 
and pepper. 

II. Clear Beef Soup. 

Only the flesh of young animals should be used for soup. The flesh of very 
old animals will not make really good soup. T;dve four pounds of lean beef and a 
knuckle of veal; put into a suitable quantity of water; when it has been skimmed 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 227 

add two or three thin strips of porlv and a tablespoonful of butter, two onions, stucii 
with six cloves each, and a blade of mace. Continue to skim as may be necessary, 
and then let it just simmer for at least live hcnirs more. Drop in a small l)unch of 
parsley half an hour before it is done, lief ore sending to the table strain through a 
clean cloth, and color suitably with burnt sugar. 

III. Soups of Various Meats. 

SoiT is made of various meats, of chicken, and also of fish. Broths are thin 
soups, and the meat from which they are made is also to be eaten separately; yet 
most cooks are in the habit of calling them soups. Thus vermicelli, macaroni, noodle and 
okra soups are thickened with these ingredients, and are made with chicken, beef or 
veal. 

Mutton Broth. — To six pounds of neck of mutton take three quarts of water, 
carrots, turni2Ts and potatoes. Soak the mutton in cold water for an hour; cut off the 
scrags and all the fat, and put into the st«w-pan with three cjuarts of water. It must 
be simmered three hours, skimming thoroughly. The carrots, turnips and onions, 
cut into suitable pieces, are added after the first skimming, and also four tablespoon- 
fuls of pearl barle\'. Half an hour before taking from the fire add a little chopped 
parsley and serve hot. Serve the meat separately, divided into cutlets of two bones 
each. 

Okra Soup. — Take two chickens, three strips of sweet bacon, or a quarter of a 
pound of ham, one quart of tomatoes, four pints of okra and two onions. Fry the 
chicken, bacon and onions in a skillet. AVhen done, pour on water and rinse into the 
soup-kettle, with plenty of water ; put in the tomatoes. Cook the okra in a sauce-pan. 
When the meat has cooked so it may be pulled from the bone, pour through a col- 
ander, add the bacon or bam, and the tomatoes from the colander; put back the soup 
ao-ain to boil, pull the chicken from the bone, add the okra and let it cook until thick 
enouo-h. If the chicken is chopped fine before being put in, and the whole stewed 
down pretty thick and ladled upon rice, boiled just so the grains are separate and 
distinct, it makes an excellent gumbo, which is still better if a little sweet cream is 
added to the boiling rice, and the soup seasoned with cayenne pepper, black pepper 
and salt. But it is generally made by adding the rice and cream to the soup. 

Cabbage Soup. — Take a large cabbage, three carrots, two onions, five slices 
lean bacon, salt and pepper to taste, two quarts of medium stock. Scald the cabbage, 
cut it up and drain it. Line the stewpan with the bacon, put in the cabbage, carrots 
and onions. Moisten with skimmings from the stock. Simmer very gently until the 
cabbage is tender. Add the stock, stew softly for half an hour, and carefullv skim 
off every particle of fat. Season and serve. It takes one hour and a half to cook. 
This is a splendid soup for cool weather, and this quantity is sufficient for eight 
persons. 

Corn Soup. — Take eight large ears, cut off the grains and scrape the cobs. 
Cover this with water, (not too much) and boil until perfectly done. Add two quarts 



228 



TWENTIF/ril CEXTl'RY IIOilE COOK BOOK. 



of milk, let it come to a boil; stir in two tablcspoonfuls of buttei' rolled in a taMc- 
spoonfiil of flour, let the whole boil ten minutes; have ready the yolks of three egg.' 
well beaten, pour the soup on them, stirring hard all the time. Serve immediately 
after seasoning to taste. 

Pea Soup. — This may be made Avith any meat. It is generally made with a 
fowl. Take half of a fried or broiled chicken and simmer for two and a half hours 
in a gallon of water and with a quart of clean shells of green peas. Strain through a 
colander and thicken with t\vo tablespoonfuls of flour, one cu^) of cream ; to be cooked 
half an hour before serving. A quart of green peas may be cooked with the soup, 
and wdicn done, mashed and returned to the soup. 

Bean Soup. — One teacupful of beans soaked over night is to lie used with 
each quart of water and half a pound of meat. Simmer for four hours. Take out 
the beans, mash, and strain through a colander with the soup, leaving out the bits of 
meat and bone ; return to the soup-pot and simmer a little longer, with stirring. 
Season to the taste. Pea soup may be made by using peas instead of beans. 





POECELAra-LIKED KETTLE— FOR FISH. 



BEASS ICETTLE. 



IV. Fish Soups. 

Sour may be made of anj' hard-fleshed fish. They should be carefully cleaned, 
skinned and cut into fillets Then cut out of the fillets, with a cutter, as many round 
pieces, an inch in size, as possible. Put the head, bones, and all the trimmings into a 
saucepan, with one quart of stock, a large handful of parsley, a piece of celery, one 
onion stuck with two cloves, a Idade of mace, and pepper and salt to taste. Let 
this boil slowly from three to four hours, skim and strain the liquor, put it on the 
fire again, and when it boils, put in the cut pieces. When they are cooked, take 
them out, put them into the soup tureen with a little chopped parsley (blanched) ; 
then strain the soup into the tureen, and serve at once. 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 229 

Eel Soup. — This may be made of two pounds of eels, one pound of other hard- 
fleshed fish, a bunch of celery, one onion, six cloves, a bunch of parsley and sweet 
herbs. Season with a blade of mace, and pepper and salt to the taste. The fish must 
be skinned as well as the .eels, and well cleaned. Cover with a quart of water in the 
stew-pan, add the pepjier and salt, the onion with the cloves stuck in it, the bunch of 
herbs, the celer}'' cut up and the parsley minced. Let it simmer for an hour and a 
half, covered close. Then strain. This is stock, and may be thinned as desired. If 
brown soup is wanted, fry the fish in butter before boiling. 

Rich Oyster Soup.— Take two (]uarts of the fish stock. Beat the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, and the hard parts of two quarts of oysters in a mortar, and add 
this to the stock. Let it sinnner for thirty to tiiirty-five minutes, add the rest of the 
o^^sters, and simmer five minutes. Then beat the yolks of six fresh eggs and add to 
the soup, stirring all one way until it is thick and smooth, keeping it hot, but not 
quite boiling, say at atiout 11*7 to 200 degrees. Then serve at once. 

A Good Oyster Soup. — To every four dozen oysters, freshly opened, allow 
one quarter of a pound of butter, six ounces of flour, two quarts of veal or chicken 
soup, a quart of milk and seasoning, including a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, 
more or less, to suit the taste. Put the butter in a stew-pan, and, when fully melted, 
add the flour and stir until smooth. Then add the liquor from the oysters that have 
been just blanched in their liquor, but not boiled, and })our in the soup. Season with 
a little cayenne and a blade of mace, with black pepper and salt. When ail is well 
-mixed, strain and boil ten minutes. Put the oysters that have been blanched and a 
gill of cream into a tureen, pour the boiling soup over them and serve immediately. 

Clam Soup. — Wash four dozen clams, open them and let them lie on the half- 
shell until the water has run out. Chop them fine with celery, mace and pepper, and 
an onion if you like it. Put the liquor and all in a saucepan and thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour. Simmer twenty minutes and then stir in the 
beaten yolks of five eggs. Serve in a tureen with slice of toasted bread 

Plain Oyster Soup. — Take one quart of oysters to one quart of milk. Boil 
the milk and liquor from the oysters together. When it has fairly boiled, add a table- 
spoonful of butter and let it boil up again, using powdered crackers or flour to thicken 
while boiling. Put in the 03'sters and serve immediatel_y. The butter is often, and, 
we think, joreferably, added with the seasoning of pepper and salt, for butter when 
boiled loses its fresh and pleasant flavor. 

Oyster Stew. — Oj^sters are stewed with milk, cream or water. 'V'VTien the 
liquor of the oysters is used, and this is stewed down considerably, it is called a dry 
stew. The ordinary stew is made as follows: Pick the oysters out of the juice Avith 
a fork, as dry as possil)le; stew the juice, thickening the milk or water of which the 
soup is to be made, and let it stand until thoroughly cooled; then drop the oysters in, 
and just as the cooled soup begins to show signs of simmering, empty out all together, 
and you will have a rich soup and plump oysters. 



230 TWENTIETH CEICTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

V. Boiled Dishes. 

Fish Chowder. — The ingredients are: Cod, haddock, or any other firm-fleshed 
fish, and salt pork. Fry three or four slices of salt pork in a deep kettle. When 
crisp take it out and put into the kettle, first, a laj^er of sliced potatoes, tiien one of 
fish, and then one of onions, alternating with a la3^er of_ fish until all is used. Peppei 
it well, add lioiling water enough to cover the whole, and boil half an hour. Put in 
half a jjint of milk, and cook it five minutes longer, gently, to j^revent burning. A 
brass kettle is often used when there is a large party. 

Steamed Turkey. — Cleanse the fowl thoroughly; then rub pepper and salt well 
mixed into the inside of it. Fill up the body with oysters mixed with a small cupful 
of bread-crumbs. Sew up all the apertures; lay the turkey into a large steamer and 
place over a kettle of boiling water ; cover closely, and steam thoroughly for two 
hours and a half. Now take it up; set the platter in a warm place, and turn Avhat- 
ever grav}^ there is in the steamer, straining it first into the oyster sauce which you 
have prepared, in the following manner: Take a pint of oysters, turn a pint of boil- 
ing water over them in a colander. Put the liquor on to boil, skim off whatever 
rises on the top. Thicken it with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed into two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; season well with pepper and salt. Add two or three table- 
spoonfuls of cream or milk to whiten it ; and pour it over the turkey and platter ; 
serve boiling hot. This sauce must be made while the turkey is still in the steamer, 
so that it can l^e poured over the turkey as soon as it is taken up. 

Boiled Turkey and Fowl. — Select a fat, young fowl ; prepare the dressing 
of cracker or broad crumbs, made fine; chop bits of raw salt pork very fine; sift in 
sage, savory, thyme, or any other sweet herbs you prefer; add to this pepper, salt, 
and considerable butter ; mix with hot water. An egg is sometimes added. After 
the turkey is stuffed, wrap closely in cloth. Put in cold water to boil, having all 
parts covered. Boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises. A small turkej' will boil 
in less than two hours. If you use oysters for the dressing, it is better to steam the 
turkey instead of boiling. When tender, take it up, strain the gravy found in the 
pauf thicken with flour; stew the oysters intended for the sauce, mix this liquor with 
the gravy, add butter, salt and pepper to suit the taste; a trifle of cream improves 
the color. 

Boiled Corned Beef. — If the piece is very salt, let it soak over night. If young 
beef and properly corned, this is unnecessary. For boiling, put it in the pot, pour 
cold water over it after rinsing, letting the meat be well covered. The rule is 
twenty-five minutes to a pound for boiling meats, but corned beef should never be 
boiled ; it should only simmer, by being placed where the simmering can be uninter- 
rupted from four to six hours, according to the size of the piece. If it is to be 
served cold, let the meat remain in the licjuor until cold. Tough beef can be made 
tender by letting it remain in the liquor until the next day, and then bringing it to 
the boiling point just before serving. For rump pieces this is a superior method. 
A brisket or plate piece may be simmered until the bones can be easily removed; 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 



231 



then fold over the brisket piece, forming a square or oblong piece; tie over it a piece 
of muslin, place sufficient weight on top to press the parts closely together, and set 
it where it will become cold. This gives a firm, solid piece for cutting from when 
cold. 

A Boiled Dinner. — Select a good piece of fresh beef, not too fat, rub over it 
sufficient salt to "corn" it, but not to make it very salt; let it stand two or three 
days, judging of the time by the size of the meat ; then wash thoroughly in cold 
water, put in the pot, cover with cold water and boil gently till quite tender. Add 
such vegetables as are desired, judging the quantity by the strength of flavor desired 
in the thick soup to be made from the water in which the whole is boiled; when done 
dish beef and vegetables, and serve hot. 

Boiled Lamb, Mutton or Veal. — Wrap the joint, quarter or piece of meat 
in a wet cloth. Dust it with flour and let it remain so half an hour. Have the pot 
ready boiling; dip the joint in, first one end and then the other — then put it in the 
pot and cover closely. Let it boil gently but steadily, an hour and a half for lamb, 
and two hours for veal and mutton. 

Sauce for Boiled Meats. — Drawn butter, with chopiied parsley and sliced car- 
rots, and pickled cucumbers. Boil carrots for a dish to eat with the lamb, etc. Slice 
into it some potatoes, parsley and onions, and with a little thickening, you have a 
good soup. 

To Boil Rice. — Rice when done should have every grain perfect. It should 
not be a gluey mass. The way to do it is to drop the rice into plenty of boiling 
water, boil fast and with the lid off, and when just done drain into a colander before 
serving. This is the way to boil rice for serving with gumbo. 

To Wash and Boil Rice. — Wash in several waters, rubbing gently between 
the fino-ers ; drain, drop it into boiling water only suflicient to cook it hy the time the 
water is boiled off, and so when done each grain will preserve its shape. This is the 
Chinese method. 

VI. Stewing. 

Stewixg is the basis of all made dishes, and a most economical and savory man- 
ner of cookino-. Its perfection depends upon the slowness with which it is done. A 
stew should never boil, nor even simmer. Two hundred degrees is the greatest heat 
admissible; 190 degrees is hot enough. Hence it is most safely performed by placing 
the stew-pan in another vessel of water — a Bain-marie. Stews should never be greasy 
nor very hio-hly seasoned. The pot lid should be kept close, and an occasional shak- 
ing of the contents will save stirring. 

Irisll stew. — Take a neck of mutton, trim off some of the fat, and cut into as 
many cutlets as you have bones; shape them, and sprinkle them with pepper. Peel 
six moderate-sized onions, and for every pound of moat take one pound of potatoes. 
Blanch the vegetables separately. Take a clean three-quart stew-pan, and add half a 
pint of water or stock. Arrange a layer of potatoes at the bottom of the stew-pan, 



232 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



then cutlets, then onions; then potatoes, then cutlets, then onions, and so proceed 
until you have the whole in. Stew at least two hours if you want it rich ; or one 
hour if the meat is to be more solid. 

Beef Stew. — Cut cold beef into small pieces, and put into cold water ; add one 
tomato, a little onion chopped fine, pepper and salt, and cook slowly; thicken with 
butter and flour, and pour over toast. Or chop fine, cold steak or roast beef, and 
cook in a little water; add cream or milk, and thicken with flour; season to taste, 
and pour over thin slices of toast. 

Onion and Meat Stew. — Slice some onions and fry brown. Pound the meat, 
fry it over a hot fire until it browns a little, turning each piece as soon as it has been 
a few seconds in the pan, to keep 
in the juice. Put it into a sauce- 
pan, pour water into the frying- 
pan, and put this brown liquor, 
with the fried onions, to the beef. 
Let it simmer slowly for an hour. 
Other seasoning may be added, 
according to taste, or to vary the 
dish, such as tomatoes, fresh or in 
catsup, sage and summer savory, 



or a grated carrot. 



Young green 




CONVEX STEW-PAN. 



onions, such as must be thinned 
out, are good cut up in it; pepper 
and salt, and a teas^^oonful of 
curry powder are a great improve- 
ment. If onions are not liked they may be left out, and the stew made brown with 
other fried vegetables, or the meat itself may be first fried. 

Beef Steak Stew with Jelly. — Take rump or round steak and pound it well, 
to make it soft, and lard it thoroughly. Put it in. a stew-pan, in equal parts of white- 
wine and water, and add some slices from a leg of veal. Season it with spice, salt, 
garlic, thyme and parsley. Simmer all over a steady fire four or five hours. When 
suflSciently done, remove the meat, and strain the broth through a sieve; then pour it 
into another pan, and boil it down until it becomes a jelly. If it is wished that the 
jelly should be clear, the whites of two eggs may be beaten up in a tablespoonful of 
stock broth and added to it, and well mixed. It must then be boiled for seven or 
eight minutes. Some lemon is then to be added, and the contents of the stew-pan 
strained through a fine cotton strainer; taking care not to squeeze the cloth, or the 
dregs may l^e forced through the pores of the material. The filtered jelly is then put 
in a cold place to set. When it has l)econie perfectly solid it is to be cut into nice 
pieces, which should be tastefully arranged on the dish, around the piece of meat. 
Sometimes the jelly is colored before being strained by the addition of a little 
cochineal powder. 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 233 

Hotch-Potch. — The ingredients arc: Neck or scrag of mutton, made into cut- 
lets, cauliflower, carrots, green peas, onions, stock and turnips. This is something 
like the New England boiled dinner already described. 

VII. How to Make Stock. 

Stock is the foundation of all meat-soups, sauces and purees. It is prepared as 
follows: To make three quarts of good beef stock, put into a saucepan or stock-pot 
one and a half pounds fresh shin of beef, half-pound of bones broken into pieces, 
with seven pints of clean, soft water. Let the contents come slowly to the, boil, then 
remove all the scum b^y skimming. The addition of a little cold water at intervals 
will facilitate the I'ising of the scum by altering the specific gravity of the water; if 
the scum be not removed it will partially redissolvc and spoil the clearness and flavor 
of the stock, and you will have the trouble of clarifying. After skimming well, add 
the following: one ounce of salt; one onion, with two or, at most, three cloves stuck 
in it; two leeks, say five ounces ; half head of celery weighing half -ounce ; turnip cut 
into quarters, weighing five ounces ; carrot sliced, weighing five ounces ; parsnip 
sliced, weighing one ounce ; one teaspoonful of white pepper. The contents must 
now simmer at 180 to 200 degrees for four or five hours; then remove the fat by 
skimming, it can be used when cold for frying and other purposes. 

Take out the meat, vegetables and bones, and strain the stock into a glazed 
earthenware vessel and keep it in a cool place free from dust; a piece of muslin 
gauze may be placed over it. Any remaining fat can be removed in a solid state 
when the liquor is cold. Stock, soup, broth, or stew should always be kept in earth- 
enware vessels. The vegetables should not remain longer in the stock than is neces- 
sary to properly cook them, as they afterwards absorb the flavor. In spring and 
summer, when vegetables are young, they cook in less time, but a stock may be and 
often is prepared without vegetables. 

A stock may also be prepared from previousl}" cooked meat and bones, but the 
stock will not be so good or rich in flavor as when prepared from fresh meat and 
bones. The idea which must be ever present in preparing a stock or soup is absolute 
freedom from fat. Spare no pains in skimming, and a little kitchen-paper or blot- 
ting-paper laid on the surface will remove specks of fat which evade the spoon. 

VIII. To Clarify Stock or Soup. 

Sometimes stock will not clarify itself. To clarify stock or a soup, take the 
white and clean shell of an egg for every quart of soup ; crush the shell in a 
mortar, and mix the shell and white of egg with a gill of cold water. Whisk the 
mixture well, and then add about as much of the boiling soup, still beating [up all 
too-cther. Pour the mixture to the remainder of the stock in the saucepan, still stir- 
rinc briskly till the whole comes to the boiling point. Eemovo from the fire, and let 
the stock remain ten minutes, or until the white of the egg or albumen sejiarates ; then 
strain carefully, and the broth is clarified. The albumen and egg-shells entangle the 



234 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOilE COOK BOOK. 



small solid particles floating in the soup. If care be taken in the preparation of a 
stock or soup it will not often require clarifying. 

IX. To Color Soups. 

It is sometimes desirable that stock should be of a bright golden color, although 
it is no better on that account. The point to remember in coloring, is not to alter the 
flavor of the stock or soup; burnt onions or carrots should never be used; they 
impart a disagreeable taste. The only proper coloring substance is caramel or burnt 
sugar, which may be prepared as follows: 

Take a clean stew-pan or saucepan and put in half pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
and constantly stir it over the lire with a wooden spoon. When the sugar is thoroughly 
melted, let it come to the boiling point, and then boil slowly for fifteen minutes, with 
occasional stirring. When the sugar is of a dark-brown color add one quart of cold 
water, then boil for twenty minutes on the side of the fire. Let it cool; then strain 
it, and keep it in clean well-stoppered bottles, and it is ready for use. Caramel 
should be of a dark-brown color; if it boil too quickly it will become black, and will 
spoil the color and flavor of the broth. When you use caramel, jmt it into the soup 
tureen just before serving. 

X. Boasted and Baked Meats. 

In the United States, very little meat is roasted before the fire. This method is 
undoubtedly better than baking, but few families have facilities for roasting. The 
cook stove is now supreme,- and no person will object either to a joint or a bird nicely 
roasted in an oven. But roasting before the open fire undoubtedly exalts the flavor 
of meat more than any other way of cooking. Only the best pieces can be used for 
roasting. The neck, tops of the ribs, shanks and tail make soup, all the odds and 
ends come in well for stewing, while the best roasting pieces are the ribs, the fillet, 
the sirloin and rump. 

How to Roast. — To roast meat properly, the fire must be hot and steady. 
About two hours will be required for a roast of seven pounds of beef, and somewhat 
less for a leg of mutton. No time, however, can be given exactly, though fifteen 
minutes for each pound will be near the mark. Beef is usually liked rare, mutton 
often somewhat so, but pork and fowls should be thoroughly cooked. 

Basting. — The meat should be basted from time to time, and if you wish the 
meat frothed, just after the last basting, dredge it very lightly with well-dried flour 
and give it time to crisp. The imperative rule for baking meats is to have a quick 
fire and baste frequently. Never parboil meat that is to be roasted. If it is frozen 
thaw it out in cold water before putting it in the oven, always wiping it dry after tak- 
ino; it from the water. 

There is another thing that should be observed with all meats that are to be 
roasted, broiled or fried. They should be kept in a cool place after being killed, 
until ready for cooking. This breaks down the fiber and renders the flesh tender. 




FLESH-FORK. 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 235 

XI. Beef a la Mode. 

This is a fillet or round of beef Avitli rich stuffing, whether stewed or baked. 
A round of beef is prepared as follows: Cut out the bone and fill with rich stufling 
of bread-crumbs seasoned with i)epi)er, salt and onions; mix together a teaspoonful 
each of pepper, salt, cloves, mace and nutmeg. Make incisions in the beef and place 
thereon strips of salt fat pork rolled in the spices. Sprinkle the remainder over the 
beef, and cover the whole with strips of fat pork. Tie it all round with tape, and 

skewer it well, put in the oven in 

a dripping-pan containing plenty 

of water, say three quarts, and 

bake from four to six hours, 

according to the size of tlie piece, 

basting it well with butter or nice beef drippings mixed with a little flour. When 

nearly done skim the fat from the gravy and thicken to serve with the meat. The 

gravy may be seasoned with AVorcester sauce, catsup or wine. 

XII. Preparing the Roast. 

EiBS of beef may have the bones cut out, the meat i-ollcd compactly together 
and projierly skewered. A loin should have the spine properly cut for convenience 
in carving. Fowls should be properly skewered, and the roasting should be done 
with only water enough to properly baste. The roast should be covered with a but- 
tered paper to prevent burning until such a time as it may be ready to finish by 
browniniT. With these directions any cook should be able to do a plain roast. 

XIII. Roast Saddle of Venison, 

The side which is to come upi)crmost at table should be placed next the pan in 
baking. When half done, turn it over in the jian, and cut into it in several places on 
eacli side of the bone, nearly three inches deep, and fill with a stufiing of bread 
crumbs highly seasoned with pei)per and salt. Pour over the meat half a teacupful 
of catsup, covering equally. Stir into lialf a teacupful of black molasses a table- 
spoonful of whole allspice, and a teaspoonful of brown sugar. Spread this equally 
over the meat. Then crumble stale bread over all, keeping the meat well basted all 
the while. Bake slowly until finished, for it burns easily. When taken from the 
oven, garnish with bits of jelly, and serve. 

XIV. Fowl and Turkey. 

Roast Fowl. — The dressing for roasted fowl should be of bread toasted crisp, 
spiead Nvith butter, and moistened with water; or if plain dressing, pound in a 
mortar. It should be rather highly seasoned. Add if you like, sage, thyme and 
parsley, and have the whole soft enough so it will fill the cavity compactly. The 
o;iblets, chopped fine, should always be served with the gravy. 



236 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Roast Turkey. — Turkey or other fowl having been well drawn, washed and 
dried with a towel, rubbed with salt and pepper, stuffed and sewn up, the legs and 
wings carefully skewered in place, put it in the oven, with the giblets, and about a 
quart of water in the pan. Bake until done, basting often, being careful not to burn 
it. The browning is done at the last. It will require three hours to roast a large 
turkey or a goose, and not much less for a brace of large ducks. 

XV. Baked Ham. 

The ham is first boiled. Very few persons know how to boil a ham. Wrap the 
ham in clean straw, or fill in around it in the pot with clean oat-straw. Add a clove 
or two of garlic (not a whole garlic), cloves, mace, allspice, thyme and pepper to the 
water in the pot. Add also a quart of cider and boil until done. If the water in 
which the ham is boiled is one-half old sound cider so much the better. Let it stand 
in the liquor until cool. If it is to be served without baking, skin and garnish with 
whole cloves stuck in the fat, and such other garnishing as may suit the taste. But a 
ham is better if baked after boiling. 

How to Bake a Ham. — Skin the ham after boiling. Lay two flat pieces of 
wood in the bottom of the bake pan; lay the ham on them, and cover with a batter 
of flour and water spread equally. Bake two or three hours slowly, according to the 
size of the ham, remove the crust of batter, garnish and serve. It is excellent hot 
or cold, and all the better for having a half-pint of claret poured over it; or it may 
be eaten with a sauce of which wine is the basis. 

XVI. Baked Beans. 

The marrow beans are really best, but the small navy beans are generally used. 
Put them to soak earlj^ in the evening, change the water before going to bed, and 
again in the morning. Parboil for two hours, or until they are tender, but will not 
break up. Pour off nearly all the Avater. Place the beans in a bean-pot — a deep pan 
will do if unsoldered. Score a piece of salt pork. Sink it into the middle of the 
beans, so it is just level with the surface, and add a very little molasses. Bake six 
hours, raising the pork toward the last so it may be well brow'ned. 

To cook beans in the canq), after boiling, a hole is dug at the foot of the fire, 
filled with hot coals, the bean-pot is filled around with coals and covered with hot 
ashes, where it remains from supper-time in the evening until breakfast the following 
morning- — about fourteen or fifteen hours. This, in fact, is the perfection of art in 
cooking beans for imparting a fine flavor. 

XVII. Broiling' and Prying. 

In broiling and frying the same principle is carried out as in roasting, but it is 
somewhat different from that of baking. In baking, heat is applied to all sides of the 
meat during the whole operation. In roasting before the fire, heat is ai^plied alter- 
nately to every side of the meat; the same thing is done in broiling and fryino-. 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 



237 



Frying corner nenrer to baking than broiling does, wlien the frying is done in a skillet 
with little fat. In broiling the meat comes into direct contact with the heat of the 
fire and is altogether preferable, exeei)t for ham, pork, bacon and fish, which are 
generally fried. The thing to do, in both broiling and frying, is to have a strong, 
clear fire, without smoke — hard coal, charcoal, or the coals of hard wood, are indis- 
pensable for broiling. 

Now that so many excellent and cheap implements for broiling are manufactured, 
so that the steak, cutlets, fish, etc., may be clasped between the leaves, thus saving 
the handling, frying is pretty much discontinued. In fact, in frying now, the articles 




BROILEU AKU COVEK. 

are o;enerally seethed in very hot fat, a preferable plan to frying, unless it be dry 
fryinc. If the fat is hot enough the meat will not absorb the fat, but come out 
exceediflgly savory. 

In broilino- or frying, a fork should never be used. It pierces the meat and 
allows the juices to escape. With the modern broiler, turning with a fork is unneces- 
sary ; but every cook should have a pair of meat-tongs for turning and handling 
steaks, cutlets, etc., when necessary. 

The Thickness for Broiling. — Beefsteaks should never be less than half an 
inch thick, and if a rich, juicy broil is desired the steak should be three-quarters of 
an inch thick. Pork and mutton chops, veal cutlets, and lamb chops should never be 
more than half an inch thick, and less is better. Salt pork, ham and bacon should 
be cut thin. Youn"' chickens and other birds for broiling, should be cut down the 
back, pressed out, and pounded or broken down perfectly flat. Flat fish and all 
small fish are fried whole ; round fish are slit down the back. No broiled or fried 
meat, except beef, must be rare enough to show the blood. Mutton is often liked 



238 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK, 



slightly rare. All other meats must be thoroughly cooked through, especially fowl, 
pork and fish. All these meats are apt to contain germs, that unless destro^'cd by a 
seething heat, may bo <l;ingerous, as for instance, trichinae in jjork, fowls and fish. 

Prying in Boiling Fat. — AVhat we have said will fully cover the ground of 
boiling and dry frying. Frying, however, is nicely done in boiling fat, using enough 
to comijletely cover the article cooked. It 
must be very hot, so as to brown the sub- 
stance properly. Meat or fish need not be 
entirely covered up if it be turned, but it is 
better to frj^ without turning. The fat — 
sweet drippings — may be used over and over 
again, but that used for fish should never 
again be used for other dishes, but the oil that 
meat has been fried in may be used for fish. oyster broiler. 

Fried Oysters. — Select large, freshly shelled oysters, dry them in a towel, 
dip into egg that has been slightly whisked, and then roll in bread-crumbs or pow- 
dered cracker. Let them dry, and cook in boiling lard until a light brown; or they 
may be fried in a little butter by turning. 

Oyster Fritters. — Make a stiff batter of eggs beaten, bread-crumbs, flour and 
milk, or cream; season with i:)epper and salt. Fry in a pan with butter or lard by 
dropping in a spoonful of Ijatter, then an oyster or two according to size, and cover 
with more batter. Cook both sides brown by turning. 





IMPROVED FRYING-PAN— HANDLE ALWAYS OVAL. 



XVIII. Prepared Dishes Baked. 

Oysters. — This is a nice breakfast dish. Separate the oysters from the liquor, 
and put some of them in a baking platter, or pan. ]\Iake a seasoning of grated 
bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, celery-seed and small bits of butter. Put this over the 
oysters, add some seasoning and ao'ain oysters until you have enough. Pour a o-jnss 
of wine or sound cider over all, and add the liquor of the oysters, as much as may 
be necessary. Bake until hot throughout and serve immediately. 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 239 

Meat Pot-Pie. — The old-fashioned way of making a pot-pie, and the only way 
in which the lower crust can be properly browned, is to use a thick round-bottonied 
pot over an open fire. The bottom and sides of the pot are lined with thick crust, 
and just before the pie is done the fire is increased until the crust is well browned. It 
cannot be made in a flat-bottomed or tliin kettle. The modern way of making a pot- 
pie in the oven is to brown the top crust. It is the next best thing to a browned 
bottom crust. Chicken, game, beef and veal are the meats used. 

XIX. Pastry for Meat Pies. 

Maxt prefer a crust that is firm enough to be raised around the meat. Care 
must be taken that the tiour is dry, and it must be sifted. Boil water with a very 
little lard and an equal quantity of sweet drippings or butter. While hot, mix this 
with as much flour as you want, making the paste very smooth and stiff, by beating 
and kneading. When ready, place it in a cloth or under a pan until cold. To make 
the form, place the left hand on the lump of crust, and with the right keep working 
it up the back of the hand until the proper shape is obtained. It must be thick 
enough to support itself. 

When worked into the desired form, the meat is put in with the necessary dress- 
ino', and the cover cemented on with the white of an egg, leaving vent holes for the 
escape of steam. You will have diflicuity in forming the paste without practice, and 
in reality these raised pies are more fanciful than practical. Before putting into the 
oven the whole must be glazed with white of eggs. 

Another Way. — Take a tin, half the height of the required pie, roll the paste 
of a proper thickness, cut out the top and bottom, and a long piece for the outside. 
Butter the dish, mould the side, lay on the white of an egg where the bottom is to join 
the sides, drawing it down over the bottom of the dish. Lay on the bottom, pressing 
all firm so it may not leak. Fill the pie, put on the cover, and pinch well together. 
The usual way is to press the paste into a buttered tin form, take the pie carefully out 
when firm enough, and again put it into the oven to brown. 

Brioche Paste.— Seven fresh eggs are required for ten pounds of dried and 
warmed flour and one pound of sweet butter; also a little compressed yeast. Put 
the yeast into a portion of the flour, add warm water and mix to form the leaven. 
Set it to rise after making a slit in the top. The leaven being ready, take the remain- 
inf flour, make a hole in the middle, put in a saltspoonful of salt and the same 
•quantity of powdered sugar, with a little water to melt it. Slightly whisk the eggs, 
break the butter small, and work the whole well together by kneading and spreading 
alternately. Spread again, lay the leaven evenly over all, and knead and work until 
the whole is evenly and thoroughly mixed. When finished, flour a towel, wrap the 
paste in it, and put in a cold place in hot weather, or a warm place in cold weather, 
to have it ready for the next day. 

This makes the most delicate dumplings for soups or stews, cut in shapes and 
fried- it is nice with braised dishes. It makes the best case for lobster or other 



240 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

joattics, and is au excellent side-dish, cut and fried in shapes. It may be boiled in cup 
shapes and served with asparagus, cut small and heaped on top with white sauce 
around it. In fact, there is an endless variety of uses to which the cook may put this 
paste; the only drawback is, it is troublesome to make. 

Light Plain Paste. — Take one pound of flour, six ounces of lard and ten ounces 
of butter. Rul) the lard into the flour, which must be thoi'oughly dry, work into a 
smooth paste with only a little water. Roll out thin, press the butter in a cloth to 
absorb the moisture, put the butter in the center of the paste, fold and press lightly 
down and roll very thin, dredging the board with a little flour. Fold in three laps 
and roll and set it in a cool place for a short time. Give it two more workings at 
intervals; fold again and it should be ready for use. This will make a good light 
paste for almost any purpose. 

Crusts with Melted Pat. — These are made by pouring the melted fat into the 
flour and mixing until all is fine, using one egg to each pound of flour. The propor- 
tions are: Flour one pound, drippings of lard or butter, six to twelve ounces — accord- 
ing to how short it is wanted — and one egg. 

Potato Crust. — An excellent crust is made with potatoes. Peel, boil and pass 
through a sieve, twelve potatoes. The other ingredients are : A gill of cream, two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and enough flour to form the 
paste. 

XX. Ingredients for Meat Pies. 

For meat pies take a dozen slices of fried pork cut in pieces, together with the 
beef, veal or chicken, and stew all together in only water enough to form the srravy. 
Peel and slice potatoes and add them to the stew. Let the crust foi^m the bottom, 
top and sides of the dish. Then form alternate laj'ers of meat and crust, until the 
whole is finished, seasoning each layer of meat properly. Then pour on the liquor 
the meat was cooked in, until it just covers all ; put on the top crust, and bake until 
the bottom crust is done and the top brown. If the liquor dries down, more must be 
added, or else water, in either case, boiling hot. 

Pot-Pie of Fowl. — A pie may be made of chicken or wild fowl. The yolks of 
six hard-boiled eggs to each fowl may be stirred in. 

Chicken Pie with Rice. — This maybe made with or without crust. If with- 
out crust, line the dish with slices of boiled ham ; cut up the boiled chicken, pour 
over it the gravy or melted butter, and fill in the interstices with boiled rice. Cover 
the top thickly with the same. Bake about three-quarters of an hour. 

Giblet Pie with Oysters. — Take the giblets of two chickens or of a turkey; 
stew until nearly done, and cut into inch pieces. Line the pan with a rich paste, mix 
the giblets with a quart of oysters, adding liquor enough to make the pie juicy. Add 
flour or rolled cracker enough to thicken it somewhat; also butter, j^epper and salt; 
cover with crust, and bake until the top is brown. 

Pish and Oyster Pies. — Fish, eels and oysters are made into pies. The 



SOME USEFUL RECIPES. 



241 



seasoning for these is generally high, and includes various spices, parsley, thyme, 
basil and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. A modification by which these are baked in 
rich gravy or stock, is generally preferred by American palates. Any fish may be 
used, but the hard-fleshed fish are preferred. 



Many dishes are made of eggs. 



XXI. Dishes of Eggs. 

Broken in water just simmering, they are called 
poached eggs. 

Fried Eggs. — They are fried in hot lard or oil, first being broken into a dish 
and carefully turned into the frying-pan. While cooking, turn the hot fat over the 
tops of the eggs with an iron spoon to cook the tops, or turn them and fry both sides 
if this way is liked. They are nice boiled in the shell, three minutes by the watch, 
or somewhat less if wished very soft. 




VEGETABLE OR EGG BOILEES. 





STEAMER. 



OMELET-PAN. 



Scrambled Eggs. — They are scrambled by breaking them into a hot frying-pan, 
containino- only enough butter to thoroughly grease it, and constantly stirring the 
eggs until done. Of course, whatever the way of cooking, they must be properly 
seasoned with pepper and salt. 

Baked Eggs. — Break the eggs carefully into a dish, so the yelks will not be 
broken. Turn them into a granite-ware pan well buttered, season with pepper and salt, 
and drop a small piece of butter on each egg. Set in a hot oven and bake until the 
whites are set. 

Omelettes. — Eggs are not to be beaten for an omelette. If a soufile is desired, 
they are beaten. For an omelette, they are stirred until the yolks and whites are 
properly mixed, one teaspoonful of cold water being used to each egg. The omelette 
takes its name from the flavoring used, parsley, ham, cheese, etc., either of which 
must be chopped fine ; the material in which they are fried must be the sweetest 
butter. The butter being hot, pour the stirred eggs, and other material if used, 
into the omelette-pan, shaking the pan occasionally, as the mass sets, so it will not 



242 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



burn. If desired browned on both sides, turn; or wlien done, if fried only on one 
side, fold or roll together lightly, and garnish the top with bits of parsley. 

XXII. Steamed Dishes. 

Oysters, many vegetables, especially potatoes, puddings and various prepared 
dishes are steamed. This is simply utilizing the action of steam instead of hot water 
to break down the tissue and render the substance palatable. The articles are placed 
in a vessel with a perforated bottom, and lifting tight upon a pot. The lid must also 
be tight so as to allow some pressure of steam. An excellent form of steamer 
wherein the cover tits down upon a projection instead of over the side is shown in 
the illustration. 




NINE-KOOM EESIDENCE. 



CHAPTER XX. 
SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 



I. SAUCES AND GRAVIES. II. SALADS AKD THEIR DRESSING. III. VARIOUS MADE DISHES. IV. 

PICKLES, CATSUPS AND CONDIMESTS. V. LEAVES FOR FLAVORING. VI. SOUR PICKLES— CUCUM- 
BERS. VII. CHOW-CHOW. VIII. PICCALILLI. IX. SWEET PICIiLES. X. CATSUPS. XI. 

CONDIMENTS. XII. FLAVORED VINEGAR. XIII. STRA\VEERRY ACID. 



hM 




I. Sauces and Gravies. 



J|HE French have a saying that the English have but one sauce — melted butter. 
This may have been measurably true once, but now the English and the Americans 
draw upon the products of every climate to please their palates. Our sauces 
are numerous, and it must be confessed, many of them are of little account; 
others are expensive and troublesome to prepare. The most costly and elaborate are 
now sold by grocers and purveyors, and are bought ready-made in sealed cans. How- 
ever the sauce is prepared, the utensils must be clean, and a wooden spoon should be 
used for stirring. Melted butter, stock, bread sauce, white sauce and brown sauce 
are the bases of the principal sauces. 





SOUP OR SAUCE STRAINER. GRAVY STRAINER. 

Melted Butter. — It is made in the relative proportions of two ounces of but- 
ter, two tablespoonfuls of water, and a httle flour dredged in, prepared over a hot 
fire, and shaken back and forth. Another good way of making is to rub two table- 
spoonfuls of flour into a quarter of a pound of butter, adding five teaspoonfuls 
of water ; set the sauce-pan containing it in a vessel of water kept boiling until it 
simmers. 

Sauce for Pish and Fowl. — The melted butter sauce makes a good condiment 
for fish by adding hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, and for boiled fowl, by adding 
chopped oysters when it is simmering. 

Egg Sauce. — This may be made either with melted butter or with white sauce. 
Five or six hard-boiled eggs, cut into small slices, using only half the whites, are put 
into a sauce-pan, to half a pint of melted butter or white sauce, with a httle cream, 
all poured onto the eggs hot. 

[243] 



244 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Good White Sauce. — This is made by taking stock or the liquor in which the 
fish, flesh or fowl has been cooked, a little flour, pepper and salt. Turn in two 
beaten eggs, and let the whole come to a boil, stirring constantly. Or it may be 
made with one pint of milk, a small onion, a small head of celery and a little parsley, 
white pepper and salt, and two ounces of butter. The butter is melted in a sauce- 
pan; dredge the flour slowly in until mixed. Previously, the milk, herbs, pepper 
and salt, must have been cooked together in a " bain marie," or some vessel placed in 
another of boiling water. Stir the milk slowly in, then the well-whisked egg, stirring 
all the while. When it simmers it is done. 

Another Good White Sauce. — Boil in a sauce-pan, half-pint of water, two 
cloves, fifteen pej^per-corns and a blade of mace. Add two anchovies chopped fine, 
a quarter of a pound of butter, a little flour and a pint of cream. Let it boil three 
minutes, stirring it constantly. 

Brown Sauce. — Put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan, with a quarter of a 
pound of lean bacon or ham cut fine, and two pounds of lean beef cut into strips. 
Add a little water, two cloves, pepper, salt and one bay-leaf. Set it over the fire, 
stirring constantly, until it is brown and rich. Then add two quarts of water, and 
when it boils, let it simmer slowly for an hour and a half. Strain through a sieve, 
and it is ready for use. 

Sauce for Roast Meat. — A good sauce for roast meat may be made in ten 
minutes, with a quarter of a pint of water, the juice of a lemon strained, a sprig of 
parsley chopped fine, an ounce and a half of butter, all seasoned with white pepper 
and salt. Set the whole over the fire in a glazed sauce-pan and keep it there until it 
is just ready to boil; then serve. This may be varied by adding two tablespoonfuls 
of nasturtiums or capers. It may also be made with white vinegar, in place of the 
lemon ; or the flavoring may be used with the gravy sauce usually served with the meat. 

Wine Sauce, for Roast Game. — Take a pint and a half of jelly, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of butter, three tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, and half as much 
ground allspice, and a quart of port wine. Stew together until thick. This may be 
used for any roasted meats. 

Onion Sauce. — Many people are fond of a sauce of onions, which are healthy, 
and to most palates agreeable. If it were not for the unpleasant odor they give the 
breath, onions would be uiniversally used both as food and flavoring. A sauce is 
made by boiling the onions, until tender, in milk and water. Drain and chop the 
onions fine, adding pepper and salt. Pour drawn butter over them, and add milk or 
cream. When the whole comes to a boil, the sauce is ready. 

Cold Meat Sauce. — -A good sauce for cold meat is made by beating the yolks 
of three eggs, and adding a wineglassful of jelly cut up. The seasoning is made 
with a tablespoonful each of flour and mustard, softened with vinegar. Put the 
whole in a sauce-pan with a tablespoonful of butter and half a teacupful of vinegar. 
Boil, stirring constantly until thick. Any solid pickle, like cucumber, may be 
chopped fine, and stirred thoroughly in when the sauce is cold. 



SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 246 

Another Sauce for Cold Meat.— Take equal quantities of ripe tomatoes and 
young okras; chop the okras tine, skin the tomatoes, and slice one onion. Stew all 
together very slowly until tender, and season with half a tablespoonful of butter and 
a little cayenne pepper and salt. 

Sauce of Many Names. — A sauce that goes by the name of the flavoring 
added, as caper, mushroom, chopped cucumber, hard-boiled eggs, and various herbs, 
is made by mixing together two large tablespoonfuls of butter and a tablespoonful of 
flour: put into a sauce-pan, and add two cups of broth or water; set on the fire, and 
when thick add of the articles mentioned to suit the taste; salt; take from the 
fire, add the yolk of an egg, beaten, and serve. Thus you have cucumber, egg, herb, 
or mushroom sauce. 

Sauce for Fowl. — Put half a pint of veal or chicken broth into a stew-pan, 
with a wineglassful of port wine, the juice of a lemon and the juice of an orange. 
Season with pepper and salt, boil for five minutes, pour over the fowls and serve. 



t 



II. Salads and their Dressing. 



The value of a salad is said to be in the dressing. However this may be, most 
people like salads ; and yet very few know how to prepare them . Salads may be 
called purely luxuries. They certainly are elegant additions to any table, and most 
appetizing. 

Proverbial Salad. — The Spanish have a proverb that four persons are necessary 
to make a good salad : A spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a barrister for salt, 
and a madman to stir it up. Vegetables for a salad must be fresh 
and crisp. Those kept fresh by soaking in water are always ruined. 
If they must be kept, lay them between folds of damp cloth. 
They should be young and well blanched. After washing, dry in 
a cloth before putting them in the salad bowl. They should be 
eaten soon after being prepared. Lettuce, cabbage, endive, celery, 
water-cress and cucumber are the principal vegetable ingredients 
for salads; beet-root, hard-boiled eggs and tomatoes are used for 
the garnishing. Mayonnaise sauce is necessary for all elaborate 
salads of meat or cooked vegetables. It is also a good foundation 

SALAD WASHER. „ ,, , -. „„„„ 

for all cold sauces. 
Mayonnaise Sauce. — For half a pint of sauce, put the yolk of an egg in a 
basin, with half a tablespoonful of tarragon or other flavored vinegar, and a table- 
spoonful of pure vinegar, with a little salt and pepper. Mix these thoroughly with a 
wooden spoon. Then add oil, droj^ by drop, mixing thoroughly. Never add more 
until the first is well mixed. When about forty drops are mixed, the quantity added 
may be a teaspoonful at a time, until four ounces are added. Then taste, and add 
more vinegar, pepper and salt, if necessary. If you like it, a little eschalot, or onion 
and parsley, thoroughly mixed, may be added. 




246 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

French Vegetable Salad. — Boil equal weights, separately, of the tender tips 
of asparagus, string beans, green peas, carrots and turnips. Drj' them in a clean 
cloth, and when cold cut into small squares. These should be arranged on a dish, the 
beans in the bottom and center. Then, around them, in equal rows, the carrots, 
peas, turnips and, last, the asparagus. If there are vegetables enough, proceed as 
before, and over all sprinkle fineljr minced chervil, tarragon, burnet, chives and gar- 
den cress, all having been first blanched, strained, cooled and dried in a cloth. If 
you have not these, substitute others of a similar character. Serve with Mayonnaise 
sauce. If the vegetables are fresh, young and, of course, tender, it makes a delicious 
dish. 

Salad of Meat, Fowl or Fish. — The cooked cold meat, chicken, game, fish 
or lobster, is to be cut into small scallops or pulled to pieces, and dipped into Mayon- 
naise sauce, and the lettuce well blanched as well as the endive. Prepare these and 
water-cress by washing and drjdng in a cloth. Break into pieces of an inch in length. 
Mince a sprig of chervil, two leaves of tarragon and a little sorrel. Peel and slice a 
fresh cucumber and a boiled red beet. Mix all these together thoroughly, make a 
foundation of the vegetables, then a layer of the fish, flesh or fowl, etc. So continue 
until you have the whole complete, saving some cucumber and beet-root for the out- 
side of the dish. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, properly cut; also, with jelly or 
olives. Serve with Mayonnaise sauce, from a boat or other suitable vessel. 

Lettuce Salad. — Every vegetable salad should have a good paste. To make 
this requires care. Put the yolks of two boiled eggs into a dish with a teaspoonful 
of dry mustard and a tablespoonful of perfectly sweet olive oil, with enough pepper 
and salt to season. With a wooden spoon work this to a perfectly smooth paste. 
Then gradually add three tablespoonfuls more of oil, two of vinegar, and mix to the 
consistency of cream. Add two or three leaves of tarragon and a small eschalot, or 
one small white onion finely minced ; also the whites of the two eggs cut in very 
small slices. Then add the lettuce and some water-cress, broken into inch pieces. 
When all is thoroughly mixed with the sauce, serve. We have given all the ingre- 
dients of a perfect lettuce salad. They may be all used or not, according to the taste. 
The French rub the dish in which it is sliced with garlic, but ours is not a garlic-eating 
nation. 

Another Salad Dressing. — Here is a simple one. Take the yolks of four 
eggs, beaten, one teaspoonful of sugar, salt-spoouful of cayenne pepper, two tea- 
spoonfuls of made mustard, six tablespoonfuls of salad oil and five of celery or other 
flavored vinegar, Mix all these thoroughly, put in a saucepan and boil three min- 
utes with constant stirring. When cold pour it over the chicken or other salad. 

Potato Salad. — Boil and mash the potatoes fine and smooth, and season well 
with butter, pepper, salt and a little cream. Use three hard-boiled eggs to each quart 
of potatoes. Chop the whites fine, and work the yellows smooth with mustard, a 
trifle of sugar, pepper and salt, according to taste, with only enough vinegar to moisten 
the whole. When thoroughly mixed, including the whites of the eggs, put a layer 



SAUCESj SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 247 

of the mashed potatoes in a flat-bottomed dish; drop the dressing in spots over the 
potatoes and so proceed until the whole is finished, with a layer of potatoes, nicely 
smoothed over the top, and so arranged that the salad will be crowning at the top. 
Then brown the whole in the oven and garnish. 

Oyster Salad. — For a can of cove oysters, take a teacup half full of cream, a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter, a teacupf ul or less of vinegar, a tcaspoonful of made 
mustard, cayenne or black pepper, and salt and sugar to suit. Whisk the eggs 
thoroughly ; mix in the other ingredients ; put in a saucepan ; set this in a vessel 
of boiling water, and cook until the whole is thick. Use any flavoring you like, and 
some pounded cracker. Chop the oysters fine, pour over the dressing, mixing all 
together. 

Cole Slaw. — To make cole slaw, take one heaping teaspoonful each of mustard 

and salt, two tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, three tablespoon- 

fuls of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of vinegar, yolks of two eggs, well beaten; stir all 

together and set on the fire, stirring constantly until it thickens, then pour on chopped 

cabbage. 

III. Various Made Dishes. 

The talent of the cook may be employed in preparing many nice dishes from 
remnants that are too often thrown away. The stew-pan, the saucepan, the gridiron, 
the omelette-pan and the toasting-iron come in well here into play. These may be 
called dishes of taste and economy. 

An Economical Dish.— Take the 
remnant of a cold boiled leg of mutton, 
or of a roast of beef; shave it into thin 
slices; season, and add, if you like it, an 
onion chopped fine, or a pinch of sweet 
herbs. Put this on a baking-dish, and 
pour over the gravy, if you have any ; if 
not, a little water, butter and flour. Then 
TOASTER AND LIGHT BEOiLER. take hot boilcd potatocs ; mash fine; add 

a little milk and salt, or butter, to soften 
them into a smooth paste, which lay over the meat. Put the dish in the oven, and 
bake a nice brown. 

Potato Croquettes. — Peel, boil and mash a quart of potatoes, mix with them 
the yolks of four eggs and two ounces of milk; set on the fire, stir for two minutes, 
spread in a dish to get cold, or leave over night, if designed for breakfast, in which 
case, a little milk may be added to moisten their dryness; mix thoroughly, divide into 
tablespoon parts, shape them, roll in bread-crumbs, dip into beaten whites of eggs, 
roll in bread-crumbs again, and fry in hot fat. Take off when done, drain, dish and 
serve immediately. Shaped flat, they are " croquettes a la diichesse." 

Chicken Croquettes. — Take the remnants of cold chicken and chop the meat 
fine. Also chop an onion for each chicken. Fry the onion in a little butter, adding 




248 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

half a spoon of flour; stir a minute, then add the chopped chicken and a gill of broth, 
salt, pepper and nutmeg. Stir for two minutes. Put all back on the fire, stirring 
gently. Spread the mixture on a dish, and put it away to cool. AVhen cold, stir the 
top well in with the rest, and if very dry, add a little broth. Divide into parts on the 
paste board of about a tablespoon to each. Have bread-crumbs on the board; make 
the parts round, dipping each one into beaten eggs, then into the bread-crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard. Serve hot. All kinds of meat may be made into croquettes after the 
same manner. 

Fried Bread. — Cut dry bread into slices, dip it in water, and fry in hot lard 
or gravy, and butter. Fry until nicely browned, then pour cream and eggs well 
beaten over it. Let it fry to the bread and serve hot. 

Relish for Breakfast or Lunch. — Take a quarter of a pound of good, fresh 
cheese ; cut it up in thin slices and put in a spider, turning over it a large cupful of 
sweet milk; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a dash of pepper, a 
little salt, and a piece of butter as lai'ge as a small egg; stir the mixture all the time. 
Take three Boston crackers or soda biscuits, finely powdered or rolled; sprinkle them 
in gradually; as soon as they are stirred in, turn the contents into a warm dish and 
serve. 

Boiled Beans. — Put the drj^ beans in cold soft water, and let them soak three 
or four hours. Then put them in cold water — two quarts of water to one quart of 
beans, adding a tablespoonful of salt — bring them to a boil, and let them simmer 
until tender, say two, or two and a half hours. Pour the water away from them; 
let them stand by the side of the fire, with the lid of the saucepan partially off, to 
allow the beans to dry, then add an ounce of butter for every quart of beans, and 
seasoning of pepper and salt. 

Side-Dish of Eggs.— Cut hard-boiled eggs in half, the long way. Take out 
the yolks and mix them with bread-crumbs, salt, pepper and butter. Put them back 
in the whites. Set the halved eggs in the pan, with the yolks up, and bake until the 
yolks, but not the whites, are browned. 

Stewed Tripe. — Soak the cleaned tripe in salt water for several hours. Then 
boil until quite tender. When cool, cut into small strips, dredge thoroughly with 
flour, and cook in a stew-pan with butter until hot. Pour in half a pint of cream, 
stir until thickened, and serve. 

Croquettes. — Meat, chicken or game croquettes are made as follows : Chop the 
meat fine, and with it allow three teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley to each pound of 
meat or fowl; add the same quantity of onions chopped fine if you like them. Add 
salt, pepper and mace to taste. Make a panada, with but little water, of half a 
pound of bread to each pound of meat. Butter the bread well. Break four eggs, 
add a grated nutmeg, and beat meat and eggs thoroughly. Then add the panada, 
mix, add three tablespoonfuls of cream, and work the whole thoroughly together. 
Eoll into proper shapes, dip in white of egg, and then in bread-crumbs, and fry in 
boiling lard. 



SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 249 

Salraon Croquettes. — Salmon or other tish is made into croquettes, by mixing 
the cooked fish, hot mashed potatoes, the yolks of eggs, and bread-crumbs or pulver- 
ized cracker together. Form them into tasty shapes, dip into egg, dredge them with 
cracker dust and fry in boiling lard. 

Rice Croquettes — Boil rice until it is thoroughly done, and dry. To every 
half-pound of rice, allow two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, one teaspoonful of 
mace, and butter to moisten it. Chop six tablespoonfuls of the breast of boiled or roast 
chicken or turkey and the soft parts of six large oysters, a little parsley, a grated nut- 
meg, and the yellow rind of a lemon. Moisten with cream so that all may be thor- 
oughly mixed. Then take a portion of the rice the size of an egg, flatten it and in 
the center put a dessert-spoonful of the mixture and close the rice around it ; cover 
with the whisked yolk of egg, roll in pulverized cracker, brown in boiling lard and 
serve hot. 

Sandwiches. — Chop cold boiled ham very fine, and mix it with the yolks of eggs 
(beaten), a httle mustard and pepper, and spread on very thin slices of bread, but- 
tered on the loaf; trim off the crust, and cut into squares. 

Minced Liver. — Cut liver into small pieces and fry with salt pork ; cut both 
into square bits, nearly cover with water, add pepper and a little lemon-juice ; thicken 
the gravy with fine bread crumbs. 

Fried Potatoes with Eggs. — Slice cold boiled potatoes and fry in butter until 
brown ; beat up one egg for each person to be served, and stir them into the mess ; do not 
leave them a moment on the fire after the eggs are in, for if they harden they are not 
good. 

Macaroni and Cheese. — Boil macaroni until tender ; butter the bottom of a 
pudding-dish, and put in a layer of macaroni, then a layer of grated cheese; season 
with butter, pepper and salt; then another layer of macaroni, and so on, finishing 
with a layer of cheese; cover with milk and bake forty minutes. 

Parsnip Fritters. — Boil in salted water until very tender; then mash, seasoning 
with a little butter, pepper and salt, add a little flour and one or two eggs, well beaten ; 
make into small balls or cakes and fry in hot lard. 

Timbale of Potatoes. — Cook, drain, mash, and pass through a fine sieve two 
quarts of Irish potatoes; put this in a saucepan, with six ounces of butter, two 

whole eggs, the yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg 
and a little sugar ; have a plain two-quart timbale mould, 
well buttered and sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs ; 
put the preparation in it, with a little more bread-crumbs, 
and bits of butter on the top ; bake for half an hour in 
a moderatelv hot oven ; before serving, pass the blade of 

PXJDDEStG OB TIMBALE PAN i -j! i ^ " ii i v. i ii 1 1 i 

a knife between the potatoes and the mould, turn over 
carefully, and in a few minutes take the mould off and serve. 

Duchesse Potatoes. — Take eight large potatoes, boiled and mashed fine, one 
tablespoonful of butter, the yolks-of two raw eggs, a little salt ; stir all together over 




250 



TWENTIETH CENTtJRY HOME COOK BOOK. 



the firo, then set it away to cool. AVhen quite cold, roll it on a board with flour to 
keep from sticking. Make it in cake or any form 3^ou wish. Take the white of the 
egg, beat with a little water, dip in the potato and roll in bread or cracker crumbs. 
Fry in hot lard. 

Dried Beef Stewed. — Heat milk and water (about half of each;, and thicken 
with a beaten egg and a little tlour ; when boiled add the beef, sliced as thin as possi- 
ble, and remove from the fire at once; if the beef is very salt it will need freshening 
in a little hot water before going into the gravy, but if not it Avill season it without 
being freshened. 

French Stew. — The French have a way of cooking tough meat, called "Daube," 
as follows: Season a thick steak with salt and pepj^er, and fry slowly in a little lard. 
Turn it often, so that both sides may be cooked alike and equally browned. When 
well browned, put in a good-sized porcelain-lined kettle, add a small quantity of 
water, half a sliced onion, some minced parsley and thyme, thicken with a spoonful 
of flour, cover close and leave it for an hour on the back of the stove where it may 
simmer slowly; after this has been done add a pound can of tomatoes, then let the 
"daube" cook about two hours, or until the meat is ready to fall to pieces. 




MUSnUOOMS— GENUS AGARICUS, 



Testing and Cooking Mushrooms.— Peel off the outer skin, break out the 
stem, and set the cap, top down, on a hot stove. In the spot where the stem formerly 
stood put a little salt, and, if desired, a small bit of butter. Scatter some salt over 
the gills. When the butter or salt melts, the cooking is done; and as soon as it is 
cool enough the fungus should be eaten, carefully saving the juice. Some fungi that 
do not seem particularly delicious when thus cooked, will, when slowly stewed with a 
little butter, and flour dredged in, with salt and pepper, make most delicious stews, 



SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 251 

Agaricus campesfris is the one generally raised, but all the mushrooms, cantha- 
rellus, marisiums, boletus, indeed all of the edible fungi named, will stew together, 
and form a dish that, alone or as an entree, cannot be surpassed in delicacy of flavor 
and gastronomic satisfaction. 

In testing new fungi, one eats a little of the cap with common salt to ascertain 
whether it tastes good, and whether it affects the fauces of the throat disagreeably; 
when a burning or stinging sensation accompanies or follows the swallowing, eat no 
more but take a copious dose of common salt, which generally neutralizes the poison. 
Some species, unpleasant or slightly injurious when raw, lose their harsh qualities in 
cooking; but as there are so many that are delicious, it is well to give up the 
doubtful kinds. 

IV. Pickles, Catsup and Condim.ents. 

Pickles are any vegetables, fruits or other substance preserved in vinegar. 
Sweet pickles are preserved with vinegar, sugar and spices. Catsups are, in some 
sense, liquid pickles. The juices of the vegetables and vinegar compose the catsup 
with the addition of spices. A condiment is something to give zest to dishes, or to 
add to, or bring out flavor. Leaves are useful in flavoring; those of herbs are well 
known; many common varieties should be better known. Peach leaves and those of 
the laurel contain the virtue of bitter almonds, itself a form of prussic acid, a deadly 
poison when concentrated, but harmless in small quantities. 

V. Leaves for Flavoring'. 

One of the most useful ami harmless of all leaves for flavoring is that of the 
common syringa. When cucumbers are scarce these are a perfect substitute in salads 
or anything in which that flavor is desired. The taste is not only like that of cucum- 
bers, but identical — a curious instance of the correlation of flavors in widely different 
families. Again, the young leaves of cucumbers have a striking likeness, in the way 
of flavor, to that of fruit. The same may be affirmed of carrot tops, which are as 
like carrots in taste as may be. In most gardens there is a waste of celery flavor in 
the sacrifice of the outside leaves and their partially blanched footstalks. Blanched 
celery is cut up into soup, when the outside leaves would flavor it equally well or 
better. The young leaves of gooseberries added to bottled fruit give a fresher flavor 
and greener color to pics and tails. The leaves of the flowering currant give a sort 
of intermediate flavor between that of black currants and red. Orange, citron and 
lemon leaves impart a flavoring equal to that of the fruit and rind combined, and 
somewhat different from both. A few leaves added to pies, or boiled in the milk 
used to bake with rice, or formed into crusts or paste, impart an excellent flavor. In 
fact, leaves are not half so much used for seasoning purposes as they might be. 

VI. Sour Pickles— Cucumbers. 

As the cucumbers are gathered, pack tlicm down in any suitable vessel with salt 
enough to make a strong brine, for which the cucumbers will usually furnish moisture 



252 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



enough; keep them under by phicing over them a follower, fitting the inside of the 
barrel and weighted sufliciently to press firmly upon them. They may remain thus 
until wanted for the table. Then soak them in water until fresh, changing it as often 
as necessary. Pack them in jars, and pour over them scalding vinegar, seasoned to 
suit the taste with cloves and other spices, but if it is desired to have them of the 
fashionable and deleterious green color, they should be just scalded in a brass kettle, 
with Avater and a little alum to harden then]. The verdigris which is formed during 
the act of scalding imparts the fashionable tint and the process is continued until the 
desired green color is reached; after which, pack as before directed, with hot vinegar. 
If this greening process is carried too far, the pickles become absolutely poisonous — 
sometimes fatally so. Sensible persons generally take their pickled cucumbers with- 
out this poison, and if not exposed to the light, ungreened pickles do not fade much. 
Cucumbers for pickles should never exceed over three inches in length. The smaller 
they are the better. 

Quick Pickles. — Take small cucumbers of a uniform size, wash, put in a por- 
celain kettle, cover with cold water, add a little salt; set it on the stove, let it heat 
gi'adually and boil five minutes; then drain off all the water; add good vinegar; to 
one gallon of vinegar add one cup molasses, one tablespoonful cloves, and the same 
of cinnamon ; let boil five minutes ; remove to an earthen or stone dish ; pour over 
them the hot vinegar ; cover tight ; when cold, they are ready for use. 

Indian Pickle. — To each gallon of vinegar ( cold) add half a pound of mustard, six 
ounces of turmeric, a handful of salt, and a little grated ginger; boil the vinegar and 
spices together, and let the mixture cool. Boil or scald the vegetables with vinegar, 
taking care to have among them a little garlic and onions; put them in your jar, and 
pour on the pickle. Afterward put in the jar a bag containing a quarter of a pound 
of ginger, one ounce of long red pepper pods, one of black pepper, one of cloves, 
and half an ounce of cayenne. If this is too hot for the taste, omit the cayenne to 
suit. 

Pickled Red Cabbage. — Select sound red cal^bages, and to each quart of vine- 
gar, add half an ounce of ginger, well bruised, one ounce of whole black pepper, 

and, when liked, a little cayenne. Take 
off the outside leaves, cut in quarters, 
remove the stalks, and cut it across in 
very thin slices. Ijny these on a dish, 
and strew them plentifully with salt, 
covering them with another dish. Let 
them remain for twenty-four hours, 
turn into a colander to drain, and, if 
necessary, wipe lightly with a clean, 
soft cloth. Put them in a jar; boil up 
the vinegar with spices in the above 
proportion, and when cold, pour it over the cabbage. It will be fit for use in a week, 




( OL\^DER. 



SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 253 

but if kept for a very long time, the cabbage is liable to get soft and to discolor. To 
be really nice and crisp, and of a good red color, it should be eaten almost imme- 
diately after it is made. A little bruised cochineal boiled with the vinegar, adds 
much to the appearance of this pickle. Tie a bladder over the top of the vessel in 
which it is kept, and kee}) in a dry place. 

Pickles Without Vinegar. — In places where vinegar cannot be readily ob- 
tained, cucumbers and other articles for pickling may be made sour as follows: Take 
one quart of good alcohol to four quarts of water ; put the cucumbers in fresh from 
the vines. Wipe them first with a wet cloth, or wash and drain them. Put in a 
warm place until fit for the table, then keep them in a cellar, or a cool place. They 
remain hard and green; and are always ready for the table. 

Green Pickles, Natural. — Heat together one gallon of water to each two 
pounds of pure salt ; pour this scalding hot over the washed cucumbers; at the end 
of three hours pour off and cover with scalding hot, sound cider vinegar. At the 
end of three days pour this off and scald the cucumbers in fresh vinegar. They will 
be naturally greened. 

VII. Cho-w-Cho-w. 

To each two quarts of small green cucumbers, or green tomatoes, and the same 
of cabbage, allow two dozen small onions and half a dozen green mango peppers. 
Sprinkle the onions or tomatoes with salt, also the cabbage, separately. At the end 
of six hours press out the water. Cut the onions in half, pour boiling water over 
them and let them stand for a little while. Cut the green peppers into inch-square 
pieces, and the cabbage and the tomatoes into pieces of suitable size. The tomatoes, 
if small, need not be cut. Mix all together. Then, to one teacupful of ground 
mustard add two cups of white mustard-seed, three tablespoonfuls of turmeric, three 
of celery-seed, one of mace, one of cayenne pepper and one of ground cinnamon, 
well mixed. Add boiling vinegar enough to cover. The vinegar should be sweetened 
with one pound of sugar to cover the whole pickle. 

A Better Chow-Chow. — Take the white part of one head of cabbage, two 
medium heads of cauliflower, one quart of string beans, one quart of very small 
cucumbers, six roots of celeriac, six mango (sweet) peppers, one quart of small white 
onions and two quarts of green tomatoes. Boil each of these articles separately — 
except the cucumbers, which must be scalded in vinegar — until just done, but not 
soft. The cauliflower may be pulled apart, piece by piece, and the rest of the vege- 
tables cut into suitable pieces, rather fine. If the cucumbers are not very small, they 
may also be cut ; but if small, pack all the ingredients in a jar in regular layers, or 
mixed, so some of each may be taken out together. Then prepare the following 
pickle: Two gallons of strong cider vinegar, four ounces of mustard, four ounces 
white mustard-seed, a pot of French mustard, one ounce of cloves and two ounces of 
turmeric. Put the spices and vinegar into an enameled kettle, and when they come 
to a boU, pour over the vegetables. A pound of sugar and any spices liked may be 



254 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK EOOK 



added to the pickles, and any vegetables may be added to or omitted, if you keep the 
proportions correct. The vinegar must cover the whole coinpletely, and it is a good 
plan to place a follower in the jar, to keep the chow-chow submerged. Chow-chow 
may be made by salting, draining, cutting into proper pieces and then scalding the 
vegetables in weak brine, })acking and pouring over the dressing or pickle. Snuill 
martynias, nasturtiums, okra, Chih pepper, very young radish pods, or anything of 
the hke kind add to the value — because to the variety — of chow-chow, but according 
to the addition of Chili pepper, omit the mango pepper. 

Tomato ChoW-Chow. — Slice one peck of green tomatoes, six green ]icppors, 
one onion, strewing a cup of tine salt over them. After standing one night, turn off 
the water. Put them in a preserving kettle, with vinegar enough to cover them, add 
one cup of sugar, one cup of grated horseradish, one tablespoon of whole cloves, one 
of ground cinnamon. Stew slowly until perfectly soft. 

Imitation Chutney. — Indian chutney is a compound of mangoes. Chillies and 
lime-juice, with some portion of other native fruits, such as tamarinds, etc., the flavor 
being heightened by garlic. For family use the following recipe will be found suitable: 
Chillies, one pound to one and a half pounds; apples, one pound; red tamarinds, two 
pounds; sugar candy, one pound; fresh ginger-root, one pound; garlic, one-half 
pound to three-fourths of a pound; sultana I'aisins, one and a half pound; fine salt, 
one pound; distilled vinegar, five bottles. The Chillies are to be soaked for an hour 
in the vinegar, and the whole ground with a stone and muller to a paste. 

Another recipe which may be depended upon for making an excellent chutney is 
as follows: One pound salt; one jDOund mustard-seed; one pound stoned raisins; 
one pound brown sugar; twelve ounces garlic; six ounces cayenne pepper; two 
quarts unripe gooseberries, and two quarts best vinegar. The mustard-seed should 
be gently dried and bruised, and the sugar made into a syrup with a pint of the vine- 
gar; the gooseberries dried and boiled in a quart of the vinegar; the garlic to be 
well bruised in a mortar. When cold, gradually mix the whole in a mortar, and with' 
the remaining vinegar thoroughly amalgamate them. To be tied down close; the 
longer kept the better. 

VIII. Piccalilli. 

This is simply mixed pickle, chopped. It may be fairly cooked, or'better, only 
scalded. Here is a good recipe : To a peck of green tomatoes, sliced thin, add a 
pint of salt. Cover with cold water and let them stand twenty-four hours. Then 
chop fine one head of cabbage, six onions (or not as you please) and twelve sweet 
peppers. Cover with scalding vinegar and drain through a sieve. Pack the mixture 
in a jar, mix with vinegar enough to cover the whole ; add a tablespoonful each of 
cloves and allspice, two ounces of white mustard-seed and a pint of molasses. Let 
the whole come to a boil and add the vegetables, either hot or cold, preferably cold. 

Mixed Pickles. — Every suitable vegetable, even melon cut in pretty shapes, 
may be used. All small things, like cucumbers, onions, martynia, radish pods — all 
56 



SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 



255 



these should be small, and go in Avbole. Other things as cabbage, cauliflower, tomatoes, 
beans, etc., are sliced or cut in proper pieces. Put whatever you make your pickles 
of in strong brine for twenty-four hours. Drain three hours, place in a preserving 
kettle with eight ounces of white mustard-seed, a tablespoonful of ground black 
pepper and enough vinegar to just cover all, adding a saltspoonful of powdered alum. 
Let the whole come to a boil. Drain again, and when cold mix in half a pint of 
ground mustard, and cover with strong cider vinegar, adding turmeric enough to color 
if you like. These proportions arc sufticient for three hundred small cucumbers, 
three heads of cabbage, the same of cauliflower, a quart of beans, the same of toma- 
toes, and the necessary horseradish, pepper, onions, etc. 

IX. Sweet Pickles. 

Sweet pickles are green, or nearly ripe fruits, prepai'ed with spices, and the 
addition of a good deal of sugar to the vinegar. The general plan of preparation is 
alike with all, the spices and preparations of sugar being varied to meet extra acidity 
in the fruits, or to suit the special taste of individuals. Peaches and all soft, ripe 
fruits may be prepared as follows : 




LIPPED PRESEKNIXG AND PICKLING KETTLE. 



Ripe Tomato and Fruit Pickles. — To seven pounds of fruit add three 
pounds of sugar and one quart of vinegar. Simmer them together for fifteen min- 
utes, skim out the fruit, boil the syrup a few minutes longer, add cloves, cinnamon 
and other spices to suit the taste, and pour over while warm, preferably in glass jars 
that may be sealed. The same will apply to all mixed or other fancy pickles, since 
they look pretty if nicely arranged. 

Sweet Ripe Pickles. — Take sound, ripe cucumbers, peel and remove the seeds, 
cut leno-thwise into strips an inch wide. To three quarts of the pieces add three cups 
of vinegar and four of water; soak twenty-four hours, stiri'ing once or twice. Put 



256 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



one quart of vinegar on the fire, add one pint of sugar, a little stick cinnamon and a 
teaspoonful of pimento tied in a bit of cloth; scald all together- add the cucumber 
and boil till soft. 

Sweet Green Pickles. — The green tomatoes or other fi'uits should be sliced, 
and six large sliced onions added — if they are liked — for each peck of material. 
Sprinkle between the layers a teacupful of salt, and let them stand over night. 
Drain and boil in two quarts of water and one of vinegar; drain again. The fruit 
must then be boiled fifteen minutes in the following pickle: Two pounds brown 
sugar, four quarts strong vinegar, half a pound of green mustard, two tablespoonfuls 
each of cloves, ginger and cinnamon, to which have been added six sliced mango 
peppers. 

X. Catsups. 

All pickles, catsups, condiments or preserved fruits, must be kept in a cold (not 
freezing), dark place. Catsup is a semi-liquid condiment, and is made of tomatoes, 
green walnuts, mushrooms, or similar substances that will impart a pleasant flavor. 

Tomato Catsup. ^The tomatoes must be fresh and fully ripe. Scald them and 
press through a sieve that will retain all the seeds and skins. To each gallon 
thus prepared, when cold, add four tablespoonfuls of salt, three of ground mustard, 
two of black pepper, one of allspice, half as much cloves, and half as much cayenne 
pepper ; also a pint of the strongest cider or wine vinegar. Simmer the whole together 
for four hours. Bottle and cork tight. 

XI. Condiments. 

Worcestershire Sauce. — Worcestershire sauce is generally adulterated. If 
made according to this formula, it will be good and pure: White Avine vinegar, fifteen 
gallons; walnut catsup, ten gallons ; Maderia wine, five gallons; mushroom catsup, 
ten gallons; table salt, twent3'-five pounds; Canton soy, four gallons; powdered cap- 
sicum, two pounds; powdered allspice, one pound; powdered coriander seeds, one 
pound; cloves, mace and cinnamon, of each one-half pound; assafoetida, one-fourth 
pound, dissolved in one gallon of brandy. Boil twenty pounds of hog's liver in ten 
gallons of water, for twelve hours, renewing the water from time to time. Take out 
the liver, chop it, mix with water, and work it through a sieve. Mix with the sauce, 
and bottle for use. If less is wanted, use carefully estimated proportionate quantities 
of ingredients. 

Imitation "Worcestershire Sauce. — Here are two formulas, both excellent 
for making palatable sauces resembling the real Worcestershire : 1. White vinegar, 
one gallon; Canton soy, one pint; molasses, one pint; walnut catsup, one and one- 
half pints; table-salt four ounces; powdered capsicum, one ounce; allspice, one 
ounce; coriander, one-fourth ounce; cloves, one-half ounce; mace, one-half ounce; 
cinnamon, six drachms; assafoetida, one-fourth ounce, digested in four ounces of 
rum ; mix. 



& 



SAUCES, SALADS, PICKLES AND CONDIMENTS. 



257 



XIII. Strawberry Acid. 

Dissolve in a quart of spring water, two ounces of citric acid, and pour the solu- 
tion on as many quite ripe strawberries — the wild fruit is preferable — stripped from 
their stalks, as it will just cover ; in twenty-four hours drain the liquid closely from 
the fruit, and pour it over as many fresh strawberries as it will cover, keeping it in a 
cool place ; the next day drain the liquid again entirely from the fruit, and boil it 
gently for three or four minutes, with its own weight of very tine sugar, which should 
be dissolved in the juice before it is placed over the fire. It should be boiled in an 
enameled pan. When perfectly cold, put it into small, dry bottles, closely corked 
for use, and store it in a cool place. It is one of the most delicate and deliciously- 
tlavored preparations possible, and of a beautiful color. If allowed to remain longer 
in the preparation than forty-eight hours l^iefore it is lioiled, it conmiences to ferment. 
In very hot weather, fermentation may take place inside of forty-eight hours. 







a,L. 



1. VvllL iy.(.„aiii, .lW.l)/.J.. ..i"..,.Vl b.,1 






ENGLISH MANSION HOUSE. 



258 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 




2. Take port wine and mushroom catsup, of each one quart; walnut pickle, 
one pint; soy, one-half pint ; pounded anchovies, one-half pound; fresh lemon peel, 
minced shallots and horseradish, each two ounces; allspice and black jicpper, bruised, 
each one ounce (or curric powder one-foui'th ounce), digest for fourteen da3's, strain 
and bottle. 

How to Mix Mustard. — IMustard should always be mixed with water that has 
been l)oiled and allowed to cool. Put the mustard in a cup Avith a pinch of salt, and 
mix with it, gradually, sufhcient boiled but cold water to make it drop from a spoon 
without being watery Stir and mix well and rub away all lumps with the back of a 
spoon. The mustard-pot should not be over half full, as mustard is better when 
freshly made. 

Tomato Sauce. — Take any quantity of ripe tomatoes, put them into an earthen 
jar, and place them, covered over, in a hot oven till perfectly soft; then rub them 

through a fine sieve, to keep out the seeds and skins. 
To every quart of juice add a clove of garlic, or, if 
the flavor is preferred, two shallots, bruised, a quar- 
ter of an ounce of ginger, the same quantity of 
black pepper, and a tablespoonful of salt; boil for 
about twenty minutes, and bottle, cork down, and 
wax it at once. If liked, the juice of two lemons 
may be added to the above before boiling. 

Chili Sauce. — Take nine large tomatoes, four 
large onions, four red peppers, or in the same proportion. Chop them together; then 
add four cups of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cloves, the same of cinnamon, ground, of ginger, of allspice and of nutmeg. 
Boil one hour, and bottle for use. 

XII. Flavored Vinegar. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Take six pounds of ripe raspberries, and pour on them 
four pints of the liest vinegar. Leave them thus for four days, fi-equently stirring, but 
not mashing the fruit so as to bruise the seeds ; then place a piece of clean fresh washed 
linen or flannel in a colander, and filter the vinegar; to each pint of juice add two 
pounds of loaf-sugar; put it into glazed jar or pan, which place in boiling water and 
keep there till the juice boils thick and syrupy. Let it become cold, then bottle it. 
The whole process should be carried on in a glazed kettle or earthen vessel. The same 
fornmla may be used with other small fruits. 

Horseradish Vinegar. — Put into a jar, four ounces of grated horseradish, a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, two teaspoonfuls of salt and one tablespoonful of mustard; 
pour over them a quart of boiling vinegar, and set the jar, covered, by the fire for a 
fortnight; then boil up the vinegar, let it cool, strain through a jelly-bag, and bottle. 
It is an excellent relish for salads, cold meats, etc. The same means may be used for 
peppers, mushrooms, green walnuts and other articles, the flavor of which is desired. 



TINNED RIM KITCHEN SIEVE. 



CHAPTER XXI. 




THE CHAFING DISH. 

,.^ 'THE CHAFING DISH is now a recog- 
-*- nized part of every well regulated 
household. It can be used for a hasty 
breakfast, an impromptu luncheon, a late 
supper, Sunday night tea and at a picnic, 
and nowhere does it do better service 
than in the sick-room, where a small 
quantity quickly prepared and served hot 

will often tempt the invalid's appetite. 

The Chafing Dish consists of two dishes which fit one inside the other, 

the lower one being called the dish and the upper one the "blazer." 

They fit into a stand over an alcohol lamp, heat very quickly and at a 

cost of about five cents an hour for alcohol. 

The cost of a Chafing Dish will be governed by what one can afford to 

pay, as there are many grades on the market and they can be bought 

from a very low price to a very high one. A five-dollar Chafing Dish will 

be found very serviceable and attractive. 

HOW TO USE THE CHAFING DISH. 

Fill and light the lamp. Have in the water pan about one-half pint of 
water — hot water, if convenient. Put over the blazer (or food pan) and 
cover it while it heats. 

Mixtures requiring slow cooking, or those which burn very easily, 
should be cooked over the hot water. If great heat is called for, as in 
broiling, remove the hot water pan and place the blazer directly over the 
flame. In the following recipes the latter method is indicated by the 
word "blazer" in parentheses. "Both" in parentheses shows that slow 
blazer and hot water pan are to be used. 

SUPPLIES FOR THE CHAFING DISH. 

It is well to keep on hand for serving hasty luncheon the following 
articles, such as beef extracts, canned soups, lobster, shrimp, tongue, dried 

259 



260 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

beef, salmon, peas, grated corn, and tomatoes, crackers, cheese, olives, 
and pickles and condensed cream. These, with bread, butter, eggs, cake, 
tea. coffee and cocoa, will help to make the unexpected visitor a welcome 
instead of a dreaded guest. 



RECIPES FOR CHAFING DISH. 

QUAIL (Blazer). 

Two plump quails. Two tablespoonfuls butter. One gill highly sea- 
soned broth. One gill port or claret. One teaspoonful onion vinegar. 
Celery. Salt. White pepper. One tablespoonful mushroom catsup. 

Cut the birds open down the back. Put the butter into the chafing dish 
and heat until it begins to brown. Then put in the birds, cover and cook 
five minutes, turn and cook five minutes longer. When nicely browned 
on both sides add the broth, port or claret, catsup and vinegar; season 
with the celery, salt and pepper, and serve. 

BOUILLON (Blazer). 

Two teaspoonfuls of beef extract. One-half teaspoonful of onion juice. 
One quart of water. Salt and white pepper. Pinch of mace. 

Heat the water in blazer. When it boils add extract and seasoning. 
Serve in cups with saltines. 

SALMI OF WOODCOCK (Both). 

Two woodcocks. Bits of fat pork. Two minced button onions. Two 
pinches of cayenne pepper. Juice of two lemons. Two gills of wine. 
Buttered toast. 

Have the birds roasted until half done. Cut in quarters. Put the bits 
of pork, giblets and necks of birds in the chafing dish in sufficient water 
to stew them. Into this gravy put the quartered birds, cover closely and 
cook until tender; remove and arrange neatly on the toast. Strain the 
gravy, return to the chafing dish, add some small pieces of butter rolled 
in flour, the lemon juice and wine. Boil up and pour over the salmi. 

WHITE SAUCE (Both). 

One tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of flour. One cup of 
milk. One-quarter teaspoonful of salt. White pepper. 

Melt the butter in blazer, add the flour, cook until smooth, then add 
the milk slowly; cook until creamy, stirring all the time; then add the salt 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 261 

and pepper. Thick white sauce is made by using two tablespoonfuls ot 
flour to same quantity of milk and butter. 

FROG SADDLES (Both). 

Frogs' legs. Three tablespoonfuls of butter. One gill of cream. Pep- 
per, salt and nutmeg. 

Melt the butter, stir the flour into it until smooth, and add the cream. 
Then put in the legs, seasoned with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Cover and 
cook twenty minutes. A little more cream may be added while cooking, 
if necessary. 

^ CHICKEN CROQUETTES (Blazer). 

Four cups of minced chicken. One cup of bread crumbs. Three eggs 
and drawn butter. 

Roll chicken, bread crumbs, eggs, seasoning (and enough drawn butter 
to moisten) into pear-shaped balls. Dip them into beaten eggs and bread 
crumbs. Put into the chafing dish with enough butter to fry a nice brown. 



CREAMED CHICKEN (Both). 

Two cups cold chicken cut into small pieces. One cup of chicken 
stock. One cup of milk or cream. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. One 
heaping tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. 

Cook the butter and flour together in the chafing dish. Add the stock 
and milk and stir until smooth. Put in the chicken, salt and pepper, and 
cook three minutes longer. 



BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN (Blazer). 

One pint cold chicken, cut in dice or small pieces. One tablespoonful 
of butter. One heaping teaspoonful of flour. One-half cup of white 
stock. Yolks of two eggs. One-half cup of cream. Parsley. Salt. 
Pepper. Lemon. Nutmeg. Clove. 

Stir the butter into the flour. Before it browns add the stock, stir a 
minute, add a little lemon juice, white pepper, salt, slight grating of 
nutmeg, pinch of ground clove, and cream; boil up once and add the 
chicken. Reduce the flame and simmer eight minutes, then add the eggs 
well beaten; stir in chopped parsley and serve at once. 



262 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

CREAM OF CLAM SOUP (Both). 

Two cups of white sauce. Three cups clam broth. Salt and pepper 

(white). 

Make the white sauce, then add the clam broth. Serve hot, with 

croutons. 

RECHAUFFE OF TURKEY (Both). 

Sauce made of a tablespoonful of butter and of flour, and one-half pint 
of stock made from the turkey bones. Small slices of turkey, pepper, 
salt, and two tablespoonfuls of sherry. 

Warm the turkey in the sauce, and when it is heated through, season 
with the pepper, salt and sherry and cook two minutes longer. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATO (Both). 

Five eggs. One tablespoonful of butter. One-quarter cup of milk. 
Cupful of tomatoes. Salt and pepper. 

Into the food pan (or blazer), over boiling water, put the butter, turn in 
the eggs, which have been beaten up with the milk. Add a cupful of 
canned tomatoes, drained and chopped quite fine. Serve directly from 
the pan into hot plates. Chopped ham or bacon (in place of oysters or 
tomatoes) makes an appetizing dish. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS (Both). 

Five eggs. One tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of salt, and 
a pinch of white pepper. 

Beat the eggs in a bowl sufficiently to blend the whites and yolks. Melt 
the butter and turn in the eggs. Stir until thick and smooth. Season 
with the salt and white pepper. 



BROWN EGGS (Both). 

Three eggs. One-half teaspoonful of sauce. One-half tablespoonful 
of butter. One-half cup of stock or gravy. Salt and pepper. 

Place the butter in the food pan over boiling water and stir in the stock 
or gravy, eggs, little salt and pepper. Worcestershire or mushroom 
sauce; stir continually, and serve on strips of toast, spread with anchovy 
paste. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 263 

STIRRED EGGS (Blazer). 

One gill of rich gravy. Five eggs. One tablespoonful of butter. One 
tablespoonful of minced parsley. One-half teaspoonful of salt. One-half 
saltspoonful white pepper. 

To the melted butter add the gravy, ana when hissing hot stir in the 
beaten eggs until they thicken. Season and sprinkle with minced parsley. 
Serve on toast. 

EGGS WITH CURRY (Both). 

Five eggs. One gill of milk. One tablespoonful of butter. One-half 
teaspoonful curry powder. One-half teaspoonful of salt. One-half an 
onion. 

Rub inside of chafing dish with the onion and put in the butter. Beat 
the eggs and add the curry powder dissolved in milk. Turn all into the 
chafing dish and stir until smooth. 



EGGS WITH CHEESE (Both). 

Six eggs. Three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. One large table- 
spoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of onion juice or chopped onion. 
One saltspoonful of paprika, and a little salt. 

Mix the cheese, butter, onion, paprika and salt in the hot pan, and stir 
until the cheese is melted. Break the eggs into a bowl, pour them into 
the cheese, reduce the flame of lamp, and stir until done. Stir in chopped 
parsley and serve with toast. 



PLAIN OMELET (Blazer). 

Four eggs. Four tablespoonfuls of milk. Butter the size of a walnut. 

Break the eggs into a bowl with the milk and whip thoroughly. Put 
the butter in the chafing dish, and when very hot run the eggs into it, 
allowing it to cook until thick. Use a thin-bladed knife to loosen it from 
the bottom, but do not stir it. When done, carefully roll the edges over 
until all rolled up. Serve on a hot plate. 

CHEESE OMELET (Blazer). 

Make the same as Plain Omelet, and as soon as it begins to thicken 
sprinkle in three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 



264 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

CRABS A LA CREOLE (Blazer). 

Four soft-shell crabs. One ounce of butter. One small onion and 
sweet Spanish pepper (both minced). One-half pint strained tomato pulp. 
One gill of chicken broth. Salt. Celery salt. 

Put in the chafing dish the butter, onion and Spanish pepper, and cook 
five minutes, stirring well. Add the tomato, chicken broth, crabs (each 
cut in two), salt and celer}' salt. Stir well. Simmer seven m.inutes. 

LOBSTER ON TOAST (Blazer). 

Three pounds of lobster. One tablespoonful of vinegar. One-half tea- 
spoonful of salt. One tablespoonful of butter. One-half cup of hot 
water. 

Cut tlie lobster into small pieces. Boil the water, vinegar, salt, three 
or four drops of tabasco if convenient, and butter together; add the lob- 
ster and simmer for five minutes. Serve on small squares of toast. 

TERRAPIN A LA PHILADELPHIA (Both). 

Two eight-inch cow terrapin. Yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. One- 
fourth pound of butter. One-half pint of cream. One-half gill of good 
sheiT}'. 

Prepare the terrapin by plunging them into boiling water. Boil fifteen 
minutes. Take them out, when cool rub off the skin from the legs, pry 
the shells apart, and cut away the meat from the shells. Rub together, 
to a paste, the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and the butter. Gradually 
add to this (stirring constant!}') the cream. Whisk into it the sherry. 
Pour this mixture into the chafing dish. Stir while it is warming; add 
the terrapin when quite hot. Simmer all together for a few moments 
and serve. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS (Blazer). 

One pint oysters. One-half pound nice bacon. Toast. 

Drain and wipe nice, large oysters. Cut bacon in thin slices, and put 
one oyster in each slice of bacon, fastening together with toothpicks. 
Cook in hot blazer until bacon is crisp, and serve on round pieces of toast. 

CREAIvI OF TOMATO SOUP (Both). 

Two cups of white sauce. One quart of tomato juice. One teaspoonful 

of butter. .Salt. A little paprika. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 265 

Make a white sauce, add the tomato juice and seasoning. Serve hot 
with croutons or saltines. 

PAN ROAST (Blazer). 

One dozen large oysters. One-half pint of oyster liquor. One table- 
spoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and as it creams add the oysters, 
liquor, salt and pepper. Cover and cook about two minutes. Put six of 
the oysters on a thin slice of toast, with sufficient liquor to moisten the 
toast, and serve. 

STEWED SOFT CLAMS (Blazer). 

One-half dozen large soft clams. One teaspoonful of butter. One-half 
pint of boiled milk. One spoonful of cracker dust. Salt and a dash of 
cayenne pepper. 

Trim the rough parts from the clams. Put the butter in the chafing 
dish and when quite hot add the boiled milk, cracker dust, salt and 
pepper. Simmer three minutes. 

STEWED OYSTERS (Both). 

Two dozen good-sized oysters. One and one-half pints of milk. 
Butter the size of a walnut. One-half teaspoonful of salt and dash of 
white pepper. 

Boil the milk in the chafing dish. Add the oysters, butter, salt and 
pepper. Allow it to just come to a boil, then serve. Above is sufficient 
for four. 

CREAMED OYSTERS (Both). 

One pint of milk. One-half tablespoonful of butter. One-half table- 
spoonful of flour. One-half teaspoonful of salt. One pint of oysters. 
Clove. Nutmeg. 

When the milk boils, stir into it the butter, into which the flour has been 
rubbed; season with clove and a slight grating of nutmeg, and salt; when 
creamy, add the oysters without their liquor; allow them to be just heated 
through, and serve on thin strips of buttered toast. 

BROOK TROUT (Blazer). 

Brook trout. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Flour. Lemon. 
Clean the fish carefully and dredge with flour. Put the butter in the 
chafing dish, and when hot lay in the trout and fry to a nice brown. 



266 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

Serve as soon as done, with sprigs of green or slices of lemon as a gar- 
niture. No salt will be needed when fried in butter. 

SARDINES ON TOAST (Both). 

One dozen sardines. One tablespoonful of butter. Two teaspoonfuls 
of anchovy paste. One tablespoonful of Sauterne and a little tabasco. 

Drain and remove the skins of the sardines; put in the butter, anchovy 
paste, tabasco and Sauterne; lay in the sardines carefully, and when well 
heated through, serve each on a tiny strip of toast. 

SMELTS (Blazer). 

Smelts. One-half cup of flour. One-half cup of Indian meal. One 
ounce of butter. 

Carefully open the smelts at the gills, drawing each one between your 
finger and thumb, beginning at the tail. Wash, then drain them in a 
colander. Salt the fish and roll them in the flour and meal. Put the 
butter in the chafing dish, and when hot drop in the smelts and fry 
brown. Do not put in too many at a time or they will not crisp well. 

LOBSTER PATTIES (Both). 

The tail part of two boiled lobsters cut into small pieces and seasoned 
well with salt and pepper and a little lemon juice. One pint of milk. 
One tablespoonful of flour. One large tablespoonful of butter. 

In the chafing dish boil a pint of milk. Dissolve the flour in cold milk 
and add to the hot milk. When thick stir in gradually the butter, and 
allow it to become quite thick. Stir the lobster into the sauce, and when 
it has become hot, serve by filling the previously heated shells with the 
mixture 

CURRIED LOBSTER (Blazer). 

A pint each of lobster and weak soup stock. One teaspoonful finely 
minced onion. Two teaspoonfuls curry powder. One coffeespoonful 
of salt. 

Brown the onion in butter. Add the curry powder, stock and salt, and 
boil them together for five minutes. Then put in the lobster and serve as 
soon as heated through. Boiled rice should be served with this. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG (Both). 

Meat of a boiled lobster cut into large dice. Good-sized lump of butter. 
One gill of sherry. One pint of cream. Yolks of two eggs. Glass of 
Sauterne. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 267 

Pot the lobster in the chafing dish with a good-sized lump of butter and 
stir gently until the butter is melted and the lobster heated through. 
Mix the sherry with the cream and yolks of eggs, first blending the latter 
with enough cream to make them as thick as a mayonnaise. Pour the 
mixture into the dish, over the lobster. Let it simmer a moment, then 
pour the Sauterne over the whole and serve hot. 

SALT CODFISH (Both). 

One-half pint desiccated codfish. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. One 
tablespoonful of flour. One gill of cream and a little pepper. 

Put the butter into the chafing dish. When melted add the flour, 
stirring constantly. Then put in the codfish, which has been previously 
soaked for an hour in tepid water. Add the cream and a little pepper. 
Let all simmer ten minutes, stirring constantly. 

CHICKEN HALIBUT (Both). 

One cupful of cold boiled halibut. Two hard-boiled eggs. One cup 
and a half of milk. Butter size of an egg. Crumbs of four crackers. 
Catsup. Salt. Pepper. 

Shred the halibut with a fork; put the milk into the food pan with hot 
water below, and let it come to a boil; add butter, catsup, salt and 
pepper, then the cracker crumbs and lastly the halibut. Let it cook five 
minutes, then add the eggs chopped fine, and serve on a hot platter with 
bits of buttered toast. 

GRILLED SWEET POTATOES (Blazer). 

Sweet potatoes. Butter. 
Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes in large thin slices, and brown on each 
side in butter, on the hot pan, over the open flame. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES (Blazer). 

One tablespoonful of butter. One onion chopped fine. Twelve cold 
boiled potatoes, cut into dice. Parsley. Salt. Pepper. 

To the butter and onion add the potatoes, and stir quickly over the 
open flame for five minutes, taking care they do not stick to the pan; 
season with salt and pepper, add chopped parsley, drain and serve. 

CREAMED POTATOES (Both). 

One pint of cold potatoes cut in cubes or thin slices. Milk. One table- 
spoonful of butter. One-half teaspoonful of pepper. Chopped parsley. 



268 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

Put the potatoes in the chafing dish and cover with mill<:, and cook until 
the milk is absorbed. Then add the butter, salt, pepper and parsley. 
Stir a few moments and serve. 

POTATOES, SAUTE (Blazer). 

Several new potatoes cut in thin slices. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, and when very hot put in the pota- 
toes and cook them to a light brown. Chicken fat or drippings may be 
used instead of butter. 

LAMB OR MUTTON CURRY (Both). 

One-half cup of butter. One-half teaspoonful of onion juice. One pint 
of lamb cut in dice. One-half teaspoonful of curry powder. One-half 
cup of milk or cream. Salt and pepper. 

Brown together in the hot pan the butter, onion, pepper and salt; stir 
in the lamb and curry powder; stir well and add the cream; boil and 
serve with rice if possible. 

LAMB WITH TOMATO (Both). 

One pint of lamb stock. One-half pint of canned tomato, chopped fine. 
One pint of cold lamb, cut in dice. One tablespoonful of butter. One 
teaspoonful of onion juice. White pepper and salt. 

Boil the stock, then add the butter, tabasco if convenient, pepper, salt, 
onion and tomato; boil and then put in the lamb, and simmer a few 
minutes. 

LAMB CHOPS (Blazer). 

Small lamb chops. Butter. Salt. 
Rub inside of chafing dish with butter. Let it get very hot, so it will at 
once sear the chops and prevent the escape of the juices. Turn them 
often while cooking. 

FRICASSEE OF DRIED BEEF (Both). 

One cup of beef finely chopped. One tablespoonful of butter. Two 
eggs. One-half pint of milk. 

Melt the butter in the milk. Add the beef, and cook five minutes, then 
put in the beaten eggs, slowly, and stir until the sauce is thick. Serve on 
toast. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 2C9 

DRIED BEEF (Both). 

One-half pound of dried beef. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. One-half 
pint of milk. One tablespoonful of flour. One egg. 

Put the butter in the chafing dish and add the beef. Fry until brown, 
then add the milk. Cream the flour with a little cold milk, then stir it in. 
Add one egg. Serve on toast. 

CALF'S LIVER AND BACON (Blazer). 

Bacon. Liver. Flour and pepper. 

The bacon and liver should be cut in thin slices. Put the bacon into 

the chafing dish. When the fat is cooked out draw the bacon to one side. 

After rolling in flour and peppering, put in the liver and cook until brown 

and tender, turning often. Serve a slice of bacon with each piece of liver. 

DEVILED MEAT (Blazer). 

Cold rare beef, or underdone mutton, or wings, drumsticks and side- 
bones of roast turkey, or large chicken may be used. One tablespoonful 
of butter. One teaspoonful of vinegar and one of Worcestershire sauce. 
One-half teaspoonful of made mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. 

Make a sauce of the butter, vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, mustard and 
cayenne. Mix these thoroughly. Make cuts in the meat with a knife 
and rub this sauce into thein. Rub the chafing dish with a little butter, 
heat it and grill the meat. Serve hot. ^ 

ROAST BEEF CHAUFFE (Both). 

Small slices of cold roast beef. One tablespoonful of butter. Three 
tablespoonfuls of jelly, a dash of cayenne or paprika, a little salt, and 
glass of sherry or Madeira. 

Put the butter into the chafing dish, and when melted add the jelly, cay- 
enne or paprika, salt and sherry or Madeira. Then add the beef, and 
serve when smoking hot. 

VEAL WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS (Both). 

Two cups very tender veal, roast or stewed. One cup of cooked aspar- 
agus tips. One tablespoonful of butter. Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. 
One-half pint of milk. Salt. White pepper. 

Rub the yolks and butter to a paste, and heat it with the milk in the 
chafing dish, stirring until thoroughly blended. Put in the veal and 
asparagus, with salt and pepper, and cook five minutes. 



^70 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

BROILED SWEETBREADS (Blazer). 

One pair sweetbreads. One tablespoonful butter. Salt and white 
pepper. 

Parboil sweetbreads which have stood one hour in ice water. Cut 
them lengthwise, trim, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in melted butter, 
lay in hot blazer; cook a delicate brown. 



SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS (Both). 

Can of peas. Three small sweetbreads. One teaspoonful of butter. 
One-half pint of stock broth. Celery leaf. Salt. White pepper. One- 
half teaspoonful brown flour. 

Stand the sweetbreads in cold water for an hour; then parboil and 
remove rough edges, membranes, sinews, etc. Put in cold water and keep 
on ice until wanted. Put into the chafing dish the butter and the sweet- 
breads. When the butter has been absorbed add one-half pint of stock 
and the celery leaf, chopped fine, the salt, pepper and browned flour. 
Turn the sweetbreads. When the same is reduced one-half it is ready. 
When cooking, open a can of green peas. Warm thoroughly in the 
chafing dish. Put in salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter. Serve 
peas and sweetbreads together. 



MUSHROOMS WITH BACON (Blazer). 

One-half dozen slices nice English bacon. Mushrooms — as many as 
you like. 

The bacon should be streaked with lean and fried in the usual way. 
Just before it is done add mushrooms annd fry them slowly. Serve hot 
as possible. 

WELSH RAREBIT (Both). 

One pound of chopped American cheese. One-half glass of ale. Yolk 
of an egg. One teaspoonful of dry mustard. One teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and butter, a dash of red and one or two of black 
pepper, and perhaps a few drops of tabasco. If the cheese is fresh, salt 
the above. 

Into the chafing dish put a few small lumps of butter. After it has 
simmered a bit put in the cheese. Stir constantly, and gradually add the 
ale. When the cheese and ale are well blended stir in above condiments 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 271 

prepared as follows: To the yolk of the egg broken into a cup, add the 
dry mustard and Worcestershire sauce, red and black pepper and tabasco. 
Let it have one more heating and pour over toast or toasted biscuit. 

WELSH RAREBIT (Both). 
(Without Ale.) 

One cup of hot milk. One-quarter pound cheese (grated). One-half 
teaspoonful salt. One-quarter teaspoonful mustard. One teaspoonful 
flour. One teaspoonful butter. One egg. Dash of cayenne. 

Put the milk to heat. Mix the grated cheese, flour, mustard, salt, 
cayenne and egg (well beaten) in blazer, add milk when hot, a little at a 
time, to the mixture, stirring all the time. Cook until smooth and 
creamy. Take from heat and add butter, stirring well. Serve hot on 
slices of toast. The milk should be added slowly. 

PINOU-CHI (Candy) (Blazer). 

Two pounds brown sugar. One teaspoonful butter. One teaspoonful 
vanilla. One cup milk. One cup chopped walnut meats. 

Boil the sugar, butter and milk about fifteen minutes, stirring most of 
the time. Then remove from heat, and add the vanilla and walnut 
meats. Beat five minutes, then spread in buttered pan. Cut in squares. 

FUDGE (Candy) (Blazer). 

Two cups granulated sugar. Two squares Baker's chocolate. One-half 
cup milk. One teaspoonful vanilla. Butter size of English walnut. 

Boil nine minutes, then remove from heat and beat five minutes. 
Spread on buttered pan or plate. Cut in squares. 

SALTED ALMONDS (Blazer). 

Half pound of almonds. Tablespoonful butter or olive oil. Salt. 

Shell, blanch and dry the almonds. Heat the butter or oil in the 
chafing dish, then add the almonds. Cook to a delicate brown. Shake 
the dish constantly and stir often to keep from burning. Drain the 
almonds and dry on soft paper, and then sprinkle with fine salt. 

HAMBURG STEAK (Blazer). 

One-half pound round steak. One-half teaspoonful butter. Salt, 
pepper and toast. 



"272 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

Scrape with- a sharp knife the steak, press the pulp removed into small 
round cakes, season with salt and pepper. Just smear the blazer with 
butter, then put in the cakes of meat, turning quickly. Cook until a deli- 
cate brown. Serve on round slices of toast with small piece of butter on 
each. 

BEEF BROTH (Blazer). 

One pound round steak. 
Scrape the pulp from beef, or chop beef until very fine, put in saucepan 
with just enough water to cover, let come to boiling slowly, then simmer 
fifteen minutes (half an hour if possible), strain, remove fat with a sheet 
of paper, salt and serve hot in cup. 

FLOUR GRUEL (Blazer). 

One tablespoonful flour. One saltspoonful salt. One teaspoonful sugar. 
One cup boiling water. One cup milk. A little nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Mix flour, salt and sugar with a little cold water, then add boiling water 
and simmer twenty minutes. Add milk and flavoring. Serve hot. 



CHAPTER XXII. 
THE NURSERY AND SICK-ROOM. 



1. TO PRESERVE HEALTH AND SAVE DOCTORS' BILLS II. THE CARE OF CHILDEEN. III. NURSERY 

BATHING. IV. DURATION OF AND PROPER TIME FOR BATHING V. EXERCISE OF CHILDREN. 

VI. STUDY AND REL.VXATION. VII. THE SICKROOM. VIII, COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. IX. 

TABLE OF FOODS AND TIME OF DIGESTION. X. SOME ANIMAL FOODS IN i HEIR ORDER OF DIGEST- 
IBILITY. XL THE TIME REQUIRED TO COOK VARIOUS ARTICLES. XII. COOKING FOR CONVA- 
LESCENTS—RECIPES AND DIRECTIONS. XIII. JELLY OK MEAT. XIV. OTHER SIMPLE DISHES. 

XV. GRUELS XVI. TEAS AND OTHER REFRESHING DRINKS. XVII. REMEDIES FOR THE SICK. 

XVm. DOSES AND THEIR GRADUATION. XIX. DISINFECTION. XX. TESTS FOR IMPURITIES 

IN WATER. XXI. SIMl'LE POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES. XXII. VIRULENT POISONS AND 

THEIR ANTIDOTES. — XXIII. HEALTH-BOARD DISINFECTANTS. XXIV. HOW TO USE DISINFECT- 
ANTS. 

I. To Preserve Health and Save Doctors' Bills. 

||HE preservation of health is of far greater importance than to dose a man after 
he is sick. To gratify " a false hunger," or slake " a false thirst," are only 
provocatives to disease. It should be remembered that we live not by what we 
eat, but by what we digest. Neither Walpole, who thought that with diet and 
patience all diseases might be cured ; nor Montesquieu, who held that health, pur- 
chased by vigorously watching over diet, was but a tedious disease, was far from the 
mark. But a wise discretion in eating is better than all. 

Heed the Stomacb.. — " What is one man's meat is another man's poison," is 
an old saying, and a true one. If every person would study his own individual powers, 
and learn to respect his stomach, to remember that he has no more right to overload 
it with improper food than he has to drink to intoxication, he would save himself 
many an unnecessary ache and ailment. Chronic dyspepsia never came of regular 
occupation, abundant exercise, early hours, and generous, but not imprudent diet. 
If you wake in the morning with a headache and lassitude, you have probably not 
taken the advice of the " self-monitor," which has its home in the stomach. 

Conform to Nature. — Dean Nowell, although he may have blazed the way for 
red noses, did not grow strong by drinking ale. The Eajpoots who slay infants from 
pride do not kill so many infants as do Christian mothers with too much stuffing. 
The Bolton ass did not become fleet-footed by chewing tobacco and taking snuff. 
The New Zealand warriors were not made stout nor brave because their mothers 
thrust stones into their stomachs, as infants. And Brantome's uncle, who took gold, 
steel and iron, in powders, from weaning-time until twelve years of age, did not 
thereby acquire the strength to stop " a wild bull in full course." 

First Principles. — A certain Kentucky man — and Kentucky men Hvc much in 
the open air minded the silent monitor of the stomach. He was at a first-rate hotel 

[373] 



274 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

table, where the bill of fare was in French. After reading carefully the whole, he 
remarked, " I will o-o back to hrst principles, and take roast beef." He was not far 
wrono;. A good constitution, roast beef, vegetables, fruit, tea and coffee in modera- 
tion, with liberal exercise, will keep any one in health. 

If you have not the good constitution, get one by proper exercise, and a moder- 
ate l)ut generous diet. When you have got the constitution, keep it by avoiding 
excesses. Moderation is said to be the first principle of digestion. 

II. The Care of Children. 

Gentle Firmness. — All who undertake the care of children, or who have the 

care of the sick, should cultivate the virtue of patience, soft speech and gentle kind- 
ness. There must be no swerving from duty, however distasteful it may be to the 
child or patient ; firmness and gentle perseverance in the thing to be done should 
be the rule. The nursery should be provided with every possible appli- 
ance for the comfort of the infant, so that when sleeping it may lie soft, and warm 
in the winter and cool in the summer. The ventilation must be perfect; children, 
like liirds, require an abundance of fresh air. When awake they should have a soft 
pallet where they can exercise their limbs to their hearts' content. It will save much 
unnecessary tending. Don't be afraid to toss them about when they have acquired 
strength to stand it, but be certain of your own coolness and muscle; then they will 
come to enjoy it. 

As they begin to notice objects, provide them with toys to amuse them, hard rub- 
ber or ivory rings, wicker rattles, a toy balloon or other object to catch the eye and 
educate the sight. There is no reason why children should be constantly sick or 
ailing; nine times out of ten their ailments come from want of care, or rather from 
too much care and dosing. 

Feeding the Infant. — The mother should be sure that her own milk is not made 
unwholesome to the child by worry or over-work, and that the milk of the cow or goat, 
if used, is perfectly healthful. When an animal is found that is known to be healthy, 
continue feeding the child on the milk of that animal. This selection is not difficult 
in the country. In the city it is only possible in certain cases, but every mother can 
and should keep her own temper equable. 

III. Nursery Bathing. 

The child should be regularly bathed in water fully as warm as the body. A 
bath-tub, or other vessel — a wash-tub will answer — in which the child can sit, when 
old enough, should be provided. The child will soon come to like its baths, and look 
forward to them with pleasure. The infants may be washed with tepid water, in a 
room where there are no drafts, and dried gently with the softest of towels. They will 
like it. Let them play and kick about in the bath pretty much as they like. A good 
large square of oil-cloth will prevent wetting the carpet. It is taken for granted, of 
course, that the child is in good health. If it is ailing, from any cause, consult your 



THE NURSERY AND SlClv-ROOM. 275 

physician, but be sure your physician loolvs into causes carefully. The physician who 
does not carefully study a case, has mistaken his calling If the child is delicate, the 
bath should always be warm. If in ordinary health, the water should be tepid. The 
cold bath should not be employed for children, except under the advice of a physician. 
When the child is old enough to take care of itself, and proper friction is employed 
immediately after, followed by a brisk run, cold bathing is not always objectionable. 
Salt bathing may be artificially had by using a little sea salt in the water. It is 
excellent. 

IV. Duration of and Proper Time for Bathing. 

All baths, even by those in health, should be taken in a warm room, unless the 
regular swimming-bath is indulged in. Here the temperature of the air is pleasant 
to the naked skin, for nobody with moderately good sense will go in swimming in 
cold weather. In the following table, after Dr. Wooton, it should be understood 
that winter baths, both warm and cold, should be taken in a warmed apartment. 



I 4* 



I 



INFANT BATH-TUB. 



With this undei-standing, the table may serve as a general guide in bathing for both 
adults and children. 

Tepid Baths in Summer — Fresh and Salt Water.— Healthy people — time of 
bath: ten minutes; frequency: twice daily; period of day: before breakfast and 
retiring to rest. AVeak people — time of bath: ten minutes; frequency: once daily; 
period of day : before breakfast. 

Cold Baths — Fresh Water. — Healthy people — time of bath: ten minutes; 
frequency: twice dailj^; period of day: before breakfast and retiring to rest. Weak 
people — time of bath: five minutes; frequency: once daily; period of day: befcn-e 
breakfast. 

Cold Baths in Summer — Salt Water. — Healthy people — time of bath: ten 
minutes; frequency: once daily ; period of day: before breakfast. Weak people — 
time of bath: five minutes; frequency: once daily; period of day: two hours after 
breakfast. 

In Winter. — The same rules will apply for winter in a properly warmed room, 
except that weak people should take the cold bath, if at all, before breakfast, as 
directed for healthy persons, the duration five minutes, and once daily. 



276 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

V. Exercise of Children. 

The more children are left free, always under careful supervision, the greater 
will be their enjoyment, and the more exercise will they take. Winter and summer 
they should have it. In the summer let them roll and frolic about the lawn, if the 
ground is dr}^. In damp weather, an old carpet may be laid down for them to play, 
and in damp or rainy weather they should have access to a garret or attic, or regular 
play-room, where they may romp and play. In the winter their exercise should not 
be omitted. Clothe them warmly, with mittens, ear-muffs, thick stockings and 
strong shoes, and let them run at will. The pure air will expand their lungs, and 
send a glow to their cheeks they can get in no other way. 

VI. Study and Eelaxation. 

Do not drive your children to study too young. From six to eight years is early 
enough for regular school-going. Of course their education begins as soon as they 
begin to notice things and run about — in object-lessons and toy instructors, lettered 
blocks, etc. ; but they should not really be put to school before the age mentioned, 
and not thus early if they languish under study. Until a child is ten years old regu- 
lar study should not be permitted. It must be more play than study. Then, the wise 
teacher, up to the age of twelve, will mix plenty of play with study. From this time 
on the study may be more and more continued ; but no labor, except a few light 
chores, should be included. Out of school hours let the child have play. Labor, 
however light, does not stand the child instead of play. " All work and no play 
makes Jack a dull boy." Hard stud}^ with little exercise, fills the graveyard with 
young bones. The midnight lamp nourishes the mature man's mind; but dreamless 
sleep for the youth makes a healthy brain. 

VII. The Sick-Room. 

Cheerfulness and Quiet. — In the sick-room there should be no unnecessary 
noise, and, above all, no confusion. Neither should there be "solemn silence." 
Some cheerful conversation is often better than medicine. In any event, never allow 
a friend with long-drawn, solemn face, or a procession of them, to walk in, and, with 
a shake of the head, after gazing, to walk out again. Because a person is ill — even 
dangerously so — there is no reason why the nurse or visitors should carry on their 
faces the you-will-nover-get-well look. It would dishearten any invalid that it did 
not exasperate, and neither disheartenment nor exasperation is good for the sick, even 
though it be said that when the sick are " strong enough to get mad," they are 
" strong enough to get well." 

The Nurse — The nurse should be soft-handed, deft in her work, of cheerful 
disposition, even tempered, and above all, intelligent. She should have delicate tact 
in cooking, for while every operation of cooking should be cleanly in the extreme, 
here the cooking, while simple, should be delicate. The beef tea must be pleasing 
to the eye as well as grateful to the palate. The steak or chops should be tender and 



THE NURSERY AND SICK-ROOM. 277 

cooked to a turn. The egg should be so boiled or poached as to be good to look at. 
Some tempting, simple, easily digested pudding, that comes as a surprise, is ten times 
more grateful than if the patient has been promised it, and then given the impatience 
of longingly waiting for it. A simple drink of water, if fresh from the well or spring, 
is always welcome; however pure it may be, it is nauseous if it has stood in the room 
until warm. It is all these little things, these attentions, that mark the careful from 
the careless nurse. In fact, no person should undertake the office of nurse unless 
loving kindness and self-abnegation are strong personal traits. With members of a 
family, these feelings are, of course, present. Happy is the patient who can always 
command such service. 

In severe sickness, it is the physician, his medicines, and the soothing offices of 
the nurse, that bring the patient through. Here fully as much depends upon the 
nurse as upon the doctor. A time comes when no longer medicine but food is needed. 
With convalescence it is the cook who takes the place of the doctor, and here the 
nurse's best efforts are shown. 

Weak Patients. — Very weak patients must be rallied ; stimulants may be neces- 
sary. There may be a nervous difficulty in swallowing; the nurse should keep her 
wits about her. The physician may have ordered a fixed quantity, say a teacupful of 
some liquid food every three or four hours; the patient's stomach rejects it. Will 
the nui"se follow the given rule? No. She will try a single tablespoonful, once an 
hour, or even a teaspoonful every fifteen minutes. Perhaps a stimulant is necessary. 
These are things — the knowledge of them — that every nurse should inform herself 
upon and be ready to act upon. 

VIII. Cookery for Invalids. 

General Rules for Cooking. — In addition to what has just been said it is 
only necessary to give these general rules for cooking: 

1. There must be no smoke for broiling 

2. All soups should be made with the most gentle simmering. 

3. All fruits and vegetables must be perfectly fresh. 

4. An hour before cooking vegetables, put them in cold water to which a little 
salt has been added to free them from any possible insects. Wash clean, drain, and 
drop into water that is boiling fast. Take them from the water and drain the instant 
they are done. 

These o-eneral directions relating to cooking will suffice as to the processes in 
invalid cookery. Some special recipes for dishes palatable and wholesome will be 
given presently. These will, of course, consist of the most simple dishes, not highly 
seasoned or spiced. 

IX. Table of Foods and Time of Digestion. 

The table given below is compiled to show the average time required for the 
digestion of different foods, but of course, it is only approximate, since in the real 
digestion of foods, no two systems will act precisely alike. The result will perhaps 



278 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



surprise many persons, who have been led into error in the supposed digestibility of 
certain foods. For instance, 03'sters arc generally supposed to be among the most 
easily digested of foods. They are not even approximately so except when eaten raw. 
Roast goose is b^' many supposed to digest slowly, but this is a great mistake: 



NAME OF ARTICLE. HOURS. 

Apples, sweet, ....... 1 

Apjiles, S0U1-, 2 

Beans, green in pod, boiled, . . 2 

Beef, fj-esh, roasted rare, ... 3 

Beef, fresb, broiled, 3 

Beef, fresb, dried, 3 

Beef, fresh, fried, 4 

Beets, boiled, 3 

Bread, wbeat, fresb, 3 

Bread, corn 3 

Butter, melted, 3 

Cabbage, witb vinegar, raw, . . 2 

Cabbage, boiled, 4 

Cheese, strong old, 3 

Codfish, 2 

Custard, baked, 2 

Ducks, tame roasted, 4 

Ducks, wild, 4 



Eggs, boiled hard. 



Eggs, boiled soft, 3 

Eggs, fried, 3 

Goose, roast, ....... 2 

Lamb, fresh, broiled, 2 

Liver, beef, broiled, 2 

Liver, beef, fried, ...... 2 

Milk, boiled, 2 

Milk, uncooked, 2 



AVERAGE TIME FOK DIGESTION. 

MIN' NAME OF ARTICLE. HOTJKS. 

30 Parsnips, boiled, 2 

00 Mutton, roast, 3 

30 Mutton, broiled, 3 

00 Mutton, boiled, 3 

00 Oysters, raw, 2 

30 Oysters, roast, 3 

00 Oysters, stewed 3 

45 Pork, fresh fat and lean, roast, . 5 

30 Pork, corned, boiled, 3 

1.5 Pork, corned, raw, 3 

30 Potatoes, boiled, 3 

00 Potatoes, baked, 2 

30 Kice, boiled, 1 

30 Sago, boiled, 

00 Salmon, salted, boiled, . . 

4.5 Soujj, beef and vegetable, . 

00 Soup, chicken, 

30 Soup, oyster, ..... 

30 Tapioca, boiled, 2 

30 Tripe, soused, boiled, .... 1 

30 'J'rout, fresh, broiled or fried, . . 1 

00 Turkey, tame, roast, 2 

30 Turkey, wild, roast 2 

00 Turnips, boiled, 3 

30 Veal, fresh, broiled, 4 

00 Veal, fresh, fried, 4 

15 Venison, broiled, 1 



3 



MIN. 

20 

15 

00 

00 

55 

15 

30 

15 

15 
00 
30 
30 
00 
45 
00 
00 
00 
30 
00 
00 
40 
00 
15 
30 
00 
30 
35 



X. Some Animal Poods in their Order of Digestibility. 



These may be named about as follows, 
time of dio;estion : 



Not, however, in relation altoo-ether to 



1. Sweetbreads. 

2. Venison. 

3. Lightl}' boiled eggs. 

4. Xew cheese, toasted. 

5. Roast baru-5'ard fo«'l. 

6. Oysters. 

7. Lamb. 

8. Wild duck and other water-fowl. 

9. Boiled fish, not oih', as trout, perch, etc. 
10. Roast beef, boiled beef and steak. 



11. Roast veal. 

12. Oily tish, as salmon, mackerel, etc., boiled. 

13. Wild pigeon and hare. 

14. Tame pigeon, duck and geese. 

15. Fi.sb, fried. 

16. Roast or boiled pork. 

17. Lobster, crab or clams. 

IS. Smoked, dried, salted or pickled fish. 

19. Old strong cheese. 



XI. The Time Required to Cook Various Articles. 
Vegetables.— Carrots, parsnips, turnips, onions, salsify, rutabagas : Boii from 



i THE NTJRSERY ANB SICK-EOOM. 279 

forty minutes to one hour. Cabbage, beets, potatoes, string beans: Twenty minutes 
to one-half hour. Caulitlowers and squash : About twenty minutes. Gi'een peas and 
asparagus: About fifteen minutes. 

Fish. — The proper time in which any fish will cook properly, can only be learned 
by experience. Fish must never be under-done. When the bones separate easily 
from the flesh the fish is done. About seven or eight minutes may be given as the 
proper time to each pound, after the water boils. Cutlets of fish will require from 
five to ten minutes to fry, and somewhat longer to broil. Flat fish, the same. The 
cleaving from the bone may be observed. 

Roasting and. Boiling. — The time required for properly roasting and boiling 
meat is about fifteen minutes to the pound. Boiled meat will separate easily from the 
bone when done. When roasted meats are done the flesh will yield easily to the 
fingers. In fowls or game the flesh of the leg will yield and show it is ready to 
separate from the bone, and in roasting before the fire, jets of steam will come from 
the side next the fire, just before the joint of meat is done. 

XII. Cookery for Convalescents— Recipes and Directions. 

Extract of Beef. — This should be made the day before it is required for use, 
kept cold, skimmed of all fat and warmed up. Mince one pound of lean beef to each 
pint of extract required. Place in a jar with a closely fitting top (if luted, so much the 
better), or in a bottle tightly corked. Place the vessel in another of cold water and 
set on the stove where it will heat slowly. When the water boils, move to where it 
will simmer, adding boiling water as the water boils away, so as to keep the inner 
vessel pretty well submerged to the top. Let it cook for three or four hours; strain 
through a cloth, and when cold remove any fat that may appear. When warmed up 
for use, a teaspoonful of cream may be added to each teacupful of extract, or a very 
little corn-starch or arrowroot. 

Beef Tea. — A weaker extract or broth may be made in a covered saucepan with 
a quart of water to each pound of chopped beef ; simmer until the water has evapo- 
rated down to a pint. 

Raw Beef Tea. — Made by allowing one ounce of fine chopped lean beef to 
each tablespoonful of cold water. Let them stand together fifteen minutes, strain 
and season to taste. For any of the above recipes the fiber of the meat may be 
scraped away with a knife. 

Broths. — Broths are made and thickened in the usual way, but care must be 
taken to strain, and skim off all fat. 

Breaded Chops and Cutlets. — The meat must be tender and lean. At least 
the fat should not be eaten. They are prepared by dipping the chop into melted 
butter, or better, the beaten yolk of egg, to which is added a very little melted butter. 
Sprinkle with fine crumbs of stale bread, and fry. If broiled, dip into melted butter 
instead of into the egg. 



280 



TWENTIETH CENTUKV IRIMIC COOK BOOK. 



Broiled Fowl and Game.— The fowl must bo young and tomlei-. Divide it 
down the back, flatten it out, rub witli a little butter (and i)eppei- if allowed), and 
cook the inner .side before the outer side. Salt when it is turned over to cook the 
skin side. Or, it may be partly roasted and then broiled or fried. Serve hot, and 

on a hot dish. 

Roasting.— This should be done before a elear fire, if possible. It may bo 
easily managed with a, tire of anthracite coal in the stove, since the bird or meat to be 
served will presumably be small. 

Boiling. — The rules heretofore given for boiling may be consulted, and some 
nice bit selected from that projiared for the family dinner. See directions for boiling 
vegetables. In boiling tish use as little water as will serve to cover it. 

XIII. Jelly of Meat. 

We do not think any meat jelly so good as that made from calves' feet. The 
jellies and meat extracts of commerce are never so good as those prepared at home; 
but they are good substitutes. The jelly made from the heels of older cattle come 
next to calf's-foot jelly. 





OVAL JELLY MOULD. 



JKLl.V SlliVE. 



Calf's-Foot Jelly. — It is made thus: Take two calf's feet, scald, and scrape 
the hair clean, take off the hoofs and remove the fat between the toes, and wash all 
thoroughly in warm water. Put the feet into cold water and let it gradually come to 
a boil, carefully skimming. Simmer six or seven hours, strain through a sieve and 
lot it cool. AAHien it gets firm, remove the fat from the toj), the jelly from the sedi- 
ment, and put the jelly into a saucepan. To each quart of jelly add six ounces of 
best granulated or loaf sugar and the shells and whites of tive eggs, thoroughly beaten. 
Stir all together while cold, but not after it begins to heat. Let it sinnner five 
minutes ; throw in a teacup of cold water and let it boil five minutes more; cover the 
saucepan closely and let it remain where it will keej> hot for half an hour. Have 
ready a flannel bag, wrung out of hot water, and pour in the jelly, kee])ing all (|uite 
near the fire to prevent the jelly setting before it is strained. If it is not clear the 
first time it runs through pass it, through again. 

The jelly bag is made larger at the toj) and narrows to a point, and is best of 



' THE NURSERY AND SICK-ROOM. 281 

closely woven flannel, with the seams double sewed. Wine or lemon juice may be 
added before straining if desired. 

Jelly of Cows' Heels. — This is prepared precisely as is calf's-foot jelly. When 
cooked, made cold, and the fat removed, a quart of ale or wine, the juice and rind of 
two lemons, a quarter of a pound of sugar and the whites of six eggs are added, and 
it is then finished like calf's-foot jelly. 

Calf S-Foot Blanc Mange. — The stock of calf's-foot jelly is reduced, to bear 
the addition of milk, flavored with vanilla, lemon-peel or other flavor, and is improved 
by the addition of a little wine or brandy. 

XIV. Other Simple Dishes. 

Iceland Moss Jelly. — This is soothing in colds, coughs, catarrh, and pulmon- 
ary affections generally. Put four ounces of Iceland moss in a quart of water, stir- 
ring constantly while on the fire. When it has boiled about forty minutes or more, 
add two ounces of lump sugar and a wineglass full of white wine. Strain through a 
jelly-bag, and it will be fit for use Avhen cold and firm. 

A Blanc Mange may be made by boiling in milk instead of water, omitting the 
wine, and flavoring with lemon, vanilla or other flavor. 

Moss and Currant Jelly. — This is made by boiling slowly, in the same pro- 
portions as for the first recipe, omitting the wine, and straining it on a tablespoonful or 
more of currant jelly, mixing it well and putting it in a mould to cool. 

Puddings. — These are made according to the recipes hereafter given. They 
should be of the simpler preparations, as batter, bread, rice, arrow-root, etc., and 
may be baked in a proper-sized shell or cup, and eaten with cream or Mine sauce. A 
simple wine sauce is made with a little sherry and water, sweetened with soft sugar. 

Baked Rice and Apples. — This is a wholesome invalids' dish. Pare, quarter, 
and core the apples, and stew them with a little cold water-and sugar, in which there 
is also a little cinnamon and allspice, tied in a little bag for easy removal. Ten 
minutes should stew the apples. Turn them into a saucer, spread boiled rice over, 
and cover the whole with white of egg beaten to a froth. If the apples and rice are 
put together cold, they must be heated through jn the oven before putting on the 
egg. Serve when well browned. 

XV. Gruels. 

Gruels are made of corn-meal, oatmeal, rice or barley, generally of corn-meal 
or oatmeal. Eice gruel is used for relaxed bowels. Gruels are all made by mixing 
the meal with cold water, properly seasoning and turning into boiling water. AA'hen 
done, say in five minutes, strain, sweeten to taste, flavor and serve. Add wine or 
brandy if stimulus is necessary. Corn-meal and oatmeal, or other grits arc better 
soaked for some time in cold water before cooking. 

Gruel of Groats. — To a tablespoonful of groats mixed with cold water, add a 
pint of hot water. Boil ten minutes, 
51 



282 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 




Oatmeal Gruel. — Stir two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal in a pint of cold water, 
and let it stand for some hours. Then, after stirring well, strain through a fine sieve, 

and cook the thin part, with constant 
stirring, until it has simmered from five 
to eight minutes. Season and flavor to 
taste. 

Rice Water witli Raisins Take 

six ounces of rice, two ounces of raisins, 
and two quarts of water. Simmer for 
half an hour. Strain and add to the 
liquid two tablespoonfuls of good 
brandy. This is good for dysentery and 
diarrhoea. 

Apple and Other Fruit Waters. 
— Slice unpared apples, pears, etc., and 
cook with water, until the fruit is quite 
MILK, PORRIDGE OR RICE BOILERS. tender. Strain through clean mushn. To 

be taken cold. 
Orangeade or Lemonade. — Pare the rind thinly from four oranges, and put 
the rind in a pitcher. Take off and throw away the white slice ; then remove 
the seeds, put with the thin peelings, add an ounce of sugar and a quart of boiling 
water. Let it stand until cold, setting it on ice if necessary : or bottle and hang 
down the well. Lemonade is made in the same way by substituting lemons for oranges, 
and adding more sugar. For ordinary use, either is made by squeezing out the juice, 
with a squeezer, and adding sugar and ice-water. 

XVI. Teas and Other Refreshing Drinks. 

Linseed Tea, for Gout, Gravel, etc. — As an accessory it is in good repute. 
Take one tablespoonful of flaxseed, one quart of water and a little orange-peel. Boil 
ten minutes in a clean porcelain kettle, sweeten with honey, add the juice of a lemon, 
to allay irritation of the chest. Omitting the lemon, it is good for irritation of the 
lun^s, Siout and gravel. 

Chamomile Tea as a Strengthener. — Use one pint of boiling water to about 
thirty chamomile flowers. Steep, strain, sweeten with honey or sugar, and drink a 
cupful half an hour before breakfast, to promote digestion and restore the action of 
the liver. A teacupful of the tea, in which has' been stirred a full dessert-spoonful of 
sugar and a very little ginger, is an excellent tonic and stimulant for an old person, 
taken two hours before dinner. 

White- Wine Whey.— Let a pint of milk come to a boil ; add half a gill of 
white-wine; allow the whole to come to a boil, and pour into a basin to cool. When 
the curd has settled, the whey is excellent for coughs and colds. 

Hop Tea.— This is considered good as an appetizer and strengthener of the 



THE NUi:8ERY AND SICK-KOOM. 283 

digestive organs. Take one-lialf ounce of hops, upon which is poured a quart of 
boiling water; let it stand fifteen ujinutcs; strain, and give a small teacupful half an 
hour before breakfast. 

Effervescent Drink. — Put the juice of a lemon, strained, in a tumbler of 
water, with sugar enough to sweeten it. Add half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of 
soda, and drink while effervescino;. 

Sherbet. — Take one pound of best powdered sugar, two ounces of carbonate of 
soda and three ounces of tartaric acid. Mix all thoroughly and keep in a bottle 
corked tight. When wanted for use, put a teasi)oonful of the powder in a tumbler, 
add a drop of essence of lemon, till with ice-water, stir and drink. 

XVII. Simple Remedies for the Sick. 

Every family should know something of simple remedies, especially those who 
live far from physicians. Often some simj^le remedy given in time will cure, or, at 
least, carry the patient until permanent relief can be obtained. For this reason M'e 
give a variety of recipes collected from the best authorities, with appropriate doses, 
the doses given being for adults. For children's doses, see table of j)roportionate 
doses in the next section. The most of them are simple and easily' procured. Castor 
oil is now much less used than foi-merly, but is too valuable in certain cases to omit. 

Acid, Acetic. — Vinegar distilled from wood and purified, used as a lotion for its 
cooling properties, removing warts. It is not given internally, except in combination 
with other remedies. 

Acid, Benzoic. — Used in chronic bronchitis. Dose : 5 grains to ^ drachm, twice 
a day. 

Acid, Sulphuric. — (Diluted.) Sulphuric acid mixed with 11 times its bulk of 
water. Used in dyspepsia, also to check sweatings, salivation and diarrhoea; also as 
a gargle. 

Acid, Tartaric. — Used in fevers with some soda of potassa, as an effervescing 
draught, instead of citric acid; the acid is dissolved in water as a substitute for lemon, 
juice, and added to soda. Dose: 1-5 to 25 grains. 

Aloes, Barbadoes. — Used in dyspepsia and head affections ; also as a common 
purirative. Dose J^ grain to -5 grains, well powdered or dissolved in hot water. 

Alum. — Used internally in hemorrhages and mucous discharges ; externally as a 
wash in ophthalmia, or as a gargle in relaxed uvula. Dose: 10 to 20 grains. 

Amjionia , Liquor of. — Ammonia condensed in water. Used, when largelj^ diluted, 
in fainting, asphyxia, hysteria, spasms, acidities of the stomach; and externally as an 
irritant of the skin. Dose: f) to 1.5 minims. 

AssAFfETiDA, GuM. — Uscd in hvsteria, flatulence, colic, etc. Dose: .5 to 10 grains. 

Borax, Bihorate of Soda. — Used in intestinal irritation of infants. Externally 
applied to thrush, and to cutaneous diseases. Dose: 5 to. 30 grains. Externally 
applied, dissolved in 8 times its weight of honey or mucilage. 



284 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Camphok. — Used in hysteria, asthma, chorea, and generally in spasmodic diseases. 
Externally, in muscular pains, bruises, etc. Dose: 3 to 5 grains, in pills. When 
dissolved in water, as camphor mixture, the quantity is scarcely appreciable. 

Capsicum. — Used in dyspepsia, flatulence, externally as an ingredient in gargles 
for relaxed sore throat. Dose: 3 to 5 grains, in pills; 2 drachms to 8 ounces form 
the strength for using as a gargle, diluted largely with water. 

Cascarilla Bark. — Stimulant, stomachic and tonic. Used in dyspepsia, flatu- 
lent colic, chronic dysentery and gangrene. Dose: 20 to 30 grains of this powder 
3 or 4 times a day. 

Castor Oil. — Mildly aperient. Used in colic and in those cases of constipation 
which will not bear drastic purgatives; also for mixing with gruel for the ordinary 
enema. Dose : A teaspoonful to 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls ; an ounce is the proper quan- 
tity for mixing with gruel to make an enema. 

Simple Cerate. — Add 20 ounces of melted wax to a pint of olive oil, and mix 
while warm, stirring until cold. Used for covering blisters or other healing sores. 

Chalk, Prepared. — Used in acidities of the stomach and bowels, and to correct 
the irritation which is established in diarrhoea. Externally, as a mild application to 
sores and burns. Dose: 10 to 15 grains. 

Chamomile Flowers. — Tonic, stomachic and carminative. The warm infusion, 
when weak, is emetic. Externally, soothing. Used in dyspepsia, hysteria, flatulence, 
and also to work off emetics. Dose of the powder: 30 to 40 grains, twice a day. 

Charcoal. — Vegetable. Used as an ingredient in tooth-powder; also to mix with 
other substances in forming a poultice for foul ulcers. Sometimes given internally. 
Dose 10 to 20 grains. 

Cinchona Bark. — (Yellow.) Astringent, tonic, antiseptic and febrifuge. Used 
in typhoid fevers, and in all low states of the system, being in such cases superior to 
quinine. Dose: 10 to 50 grains, in wine or wine and water. 

Cinnamon Bark, Oil and Water. — Used as a warm and cordial spice to prevent 
the griping of purgatives, etc. 

Cod-Liver Oil. — Prepared from the liver of the codfish. Nutritive, and acting 
also on the general system, from containing very small doses of iodine and bromine. 
Dose: 1 drachm carried up to 4 in any convenient vehicle, as infusion of cloves. 

Decoction or Barley. — (Barley water.) Wash 2^ ounces of pearl barley, 
then boil it in j4 pint of water for a short time. Throw this water away, and pour 
on the barley 4 pints of hot water; boil slowly down to 2 pints and strain. Soothing 
and nourishing. Used as a diluent drink in fevers and in inflammation of mucous sur- 
faces, especially those of the urinary organs. 

Decoction oe Barley (Compound).— Boil 2 pints of barley water (see above) 
with 2}4 ounces of sliced figs, 4 drachms of bruised fresh licorice, 2}4 ounces of 
raisins, and 1 pint of water, down to 2 pints, and strain. Effect, the same as barley 
water, but, in addition, laxative, 



THE NURSERY AND SICK-ROOM. 285 

Decoction of Brooji (Compound). — Take }^ ounce of broom, ^ ounce of 
juniper berries, and ^ ounce of bruised dandelion ; boil in Xy^ pints of water down 
to a pint, and strain. Diuretic, and sliglitly aperient. Us.ed in dropsy. Dose : 1^ 
ounces to 2 ounces, twice or thrice a day. 

Decoction of Cinchona. — Boil 10 drachms of bruised yellow cinchona in 1 pint 
of water for 10 minutes, in a closed vessel, then strain. Used in fevers, malignant 
sore throat and dyspepsia. Dose: lyi ounces to 3 ounces, 3 times a day. 

Decoction of Dandelion. — Boil 4 ounces of bruised dandelion in \y^ pints of 
distilled water, to a pint, and strain. Used in torpid conditions of the liver, jaundice, 
habitual constipation, etc. Dose: 2 or 3 ounces, 2 or 3 times a day. 

Decoction of Iceland Moss. — Boil 5 drachms of Iceland moss in 1^ pints of 
water down to a pint, and strain. Used in consumption and dysentery. Dose: 1 
to 2 ounces. 

Decoction of Poppyheads. — Boil 5 ounces of bruised poppyheads in 3 pints of 
water for ^^ hour, and strain. Used as a fomentation in painful swellings and 
inliammations. 

Decoction of Quince-seed. — Boil 2 drachms of quince-seed in 1 pint of water, 
in a tightly covered vessel, for 10 minutes, and strain. Used in thrush and irritable 
conditions of the mucous membrane. 

Decoction of Sarsapaeilla (Compound). — Mix 4 pints of boiling decoction 
of sarsaparilla, 10 drachms of sliced sassafras, 10 drachms of guaiacum-wood shav- 
ings, 10 drachms of bruised stick-licorice, and 3 drachms of mezeron-bark ; boil J^ 
hour, and strain. Used in cutaneous diseases, chronic rheumatism and scrofula. 
Dose: 2 ounces, 2 or 3 times a day. 

Extract of Hop. — Physical properties. A dark-colored, bitter extract, without 
much smell. Tonic and sedative. Used in chronic dyspepsia and loss of sleep. 
Dose : 10 to 15 grains. 

Infusion of Cascarilla. — Macerate l}i ounces of bruised cascarilla in 1 pint 
of boilino- water for 2 hours, in a covered vessel, and strain. Stomachic and tonic. 
Used in dyspepsia, diarrhoea and general debility. Dose: 1 ounce to 2 ounces. 

Infusion of Gentian (Compound). — Macerate 2 drachms of sliced gentian, 2 
drachms of dried orange-peel, 4 drachms of lemon-peel, in 1 pint of boiling water, 
for 1 hour, in a covered vessel, and strain. Stomachic and tonic. Used in dyspepsia 
and general debility. Dose : 1 1^ to 2 ounces, 2 or 3 times a day. 

Infusion of Horseradish (Compound). — Macerate 1 ounce of horseradish, 
sliced, and 1 ounce of bruised mustard-seed in 1 pint of boiling water 2 hours, in a 
covered vessel, and strain. Then add a fluid ounce of the compound spirit of horse- 
radish. The same as the root. Dose: 1 to 3 ounces, 3 or 4 times a day. 

Infusion of Quassia. — Macerate 10 drachms of quassia, sliced, in 1 pint of 
boilino- water, 2 hours, in a covered vessel. Tonic and stomachic. Used in dyspepsia. 
Dose: 1^ to 2 ounces. 

Infusion of Roses (Compound''. — Put 3 drachms of the dried red-rose leaves 



286 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



into 1 pint of boiling water, then add 1^ fluid drachms of diUited sulphuric acid. 
Macerate for 2 hours, and strain the liquor; lastly, add G drachms of sugar. Thera- 
peutical effects: Astringent, refrigerant, and antisejjtic. Used as a drink in fevers ; 
also a vehicle for sulphate (}f magnesia, quinine, etc. Dose : ly, to 2 ounces. 

Li(^)l:or op Acetate of Lead. — Used as a lotion to inflamed surfaces when 
largel}' diluted with water. 

Liquor of Potass. — L^sed in acidity of the stomach and bowels; also in irrita- 
bility of the stomach and of the bladder, and in cutaneous diseases. Dose: lU to oU 
droi)s, in beer or bitter infusion, or lemonade. 

Magnesia, Carbonate of. — Used in dysj^epsia with costiveness, in the constipa- 
tion of children and of delicate grown j^ersons. Dose: ^ to 1 or 2 drachms. 

Mercury, Chloride of Calomel. — Used in chronic diseases of the liver and 
general torpidity of the stomach and bo\vels; in drops}^, in combination with other 
medicines. A most dangerous medicine ivlien employed bij those who are not aware of 
its 2Mwei'ftd effects. Dose: 1 grain twice a day as an alterative, 4 to 5 grains as an 
aperient, coml^ined with or followed l)y some mild vegetable purgative. 

Mixture of Iron. — All mixtures of iron should be prepared by capable drug- 
gists. 

Poultice of Charcoal. — Macerate, for a short time, before the fire, 2 ounces 
of bread in 2 fluid ounces of boiling water; then mix, and gradually stir in 10 drachms 
of linseed meal; with these mix 2 drachms of powdered charcoal, and sprinkle 1 
drachm on the surface. LTsed in gangrene. 

Poultice of Yeast. — j\Iix 5 ounces of yeast with an equal quantity of water, 
at IOC; with these stir 1 pound of flour, so as to make a poultice; place it by the 
fire till it swells, and use. Stimulant, emollient. Used in indolent abscesses and 
sores. 

Quinine, Sutlphate of. — Physical properties: Colorless, inodorous, lustrous, 
bitter efilorescent crystals, totally soluble in water previously acidulated with sul- 
phuric acid. Stomachic, stimulant, febrifuge and tonic. Used in general debility, 
neuralgia, and after fever. Dose: 1 to 3 grains. 

Soda, Bicarbonate op. — Physical properties: A heavy, white powder, without 
smell, and tasting slightly soapy. Entirely soluble in water. Anti-acid. Used for 
acidities of the stomach. Dose : .5 to 30 grains. 

Spic+elia. — A ver}' useful remedy' for roundworms. Dose: 10 to 20 grains of 
the powder, given fasting; or }4 to 3 ounces of the infusion made by pouring 1 pint 
of water on j4 ounce of the root. 

SvRUP OF Iodide of Iron. — Is used because the iodide of iron is liable to in- 
jury from change. Alterative, and affording the effects of iron and iodine. Used in 
scrofulous diseases, and in cachectic states of the system. Dose: )4 drachm to 1 
drachm. 

Wine of Iron. — Stomachic and tonic. Used the same as other iron medicines. 
Dose: 30 to 60 minims. 



THE NURSERY AND SICK-ROOM. 287 

XVIII. Doses and Their Graduation. 

AxL who have charge of sick-rooms where the physician is not in regular attend- 
ance, should uuderstaud the proportionate doses for various ages; but here, again, 
proper calculation must be made for development, constitutional differences, etc. 
The nurse should also know something of how certain medicines act on different sys- 
tems. The following table will give a general idea of the proportionate dose to get 
ordinary action of medicine, allowing that a person of twenty-five to forty years of 
age requires a full dose. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONATE DOSES. 

Age 80. .65.. 50.. 25-40.. 20.. 16.. 12.. 8 .. 5 .. 2 Years. 

Doses ..S/8..%..7/q.. 1 ..7/&..%..S/Q..%..Yii..% 

Age 12 6 2 to 1 Months. 

Doses 1-5 1-8 1-15 1-24. 

Adult women require about ^ the full dose of men. 

Measures for Doses. — A tumbler is estimated to contain four or five fluid 
ounces; a wineglass one and one-half or two fluid ounces; a tablespoon about one- 
half fluid ounce; a teaspoonful one fluid drachm ; a minim is one drop. 

XIX. DisinfectioD. 

' With Clay or Loam. — Dry earths, strong loams and clay, reduced to powder, 
are cheap and perfect deodorijzers of fetid substances, when the latter are covered 
with the earth. These are valuable in all cases when the substance does not nearly 
saturate the earth used. 

Copperas. — For privy-vaults, cesspools, etc., especially those giving off the 
smell of sulphurated hydrogen (rotten-egg smell), use copperas in powder. It is 
cheap, and one or two pounds will destroy the smell of an ordinary privy-vault or 
cesspool. It is also the best cheap disinfectant for sinks, drains and all that class of 
fixtures giving off bad smells. 

Carbolic acid or chloride of lime may be used in all cases when the smell of 
these agents does not reach the rooms of a building. 

Earth Closets. — We give two simple forms of earth closet for sick-rooms. 
Fig. 1, a form with back ; Fig. 2, showing the arrangement for depositing the earth 
on the "stool." Fig. 3 is a more simple form; Fig. 4, showing the seat opened. 
They are valuable in the country for invalids, who cannot at all times go out of 
doors. [See next page.] 

To Disinfect Clothing. — Clothing may be disinfected by subjecting it to a 
dry heat just below that which will injure the cloth. Perfectly boiling water is 
usually suflScient to remove the contagion of diseases like small-pox, etc., but it is 
better after washing to subject the clothing to a heat of not less than 300*^ Fahren- 
heit. This may be done under pressure of steam. 

Disinfecting the Sick-Room. — It is useful to know whether the air of a 



"SSS 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



8ick-room is pure or not. To discover this, dampen a piece of white linen with a 
.solution of nitrate of lead. If impure, the cloth will be darkened. The following 




tahle will show the relative value of some of the more common disinfectants, the 



first-named being taken at 100. 



THE NURSERY AND SICK-ROOM. 289 

TABLE OF RELATIVE VALUK OF DISINFECTANTS. 

Chloride of lime with sulphuric acid, 100 

Chloride of lime with sulphate of iron, 99 

Carbolic acid, disinfecting powder, 85.6 

Slaked lime, 84.6 

Alum, 80.4 

Sulphate of iron, 76.7 

Suljihate of magnesia, 57.1 

Permanganate of potash, with sulphuric acid, 51.3 

Hence, if nothing better is available, use air-slaked lime freely in powder when- 
ever epidemic and contagious diseases are present. For cesspools use sulphate of 
iron in solution. 

XX. Tests for Impurities in Water. 

To tell if water be hard or soft, dissolve soap in alcohol, and drop a little in a 
glass of the water; it will become more or less milky, according to the hardness of 
the water. 

Test for Iron. — A crystal of prussiate of potash, dissolved iii water containing 
iron, will turn it blue. 

Test for Copper. — If copper be present in water, a few drops of liquid ammonia 
will turn it blue. 

Test for Lead. — If lead is suspected in water, add a little sulphuret of ammonia 
or potash. If there is lead in solution, water will assume a dark brown or blackish 
hue. 

XXI. Simple Poisons and Their Antidotes. 

Evert person having the care of children, should be conversant with the best- 
known antidote for simple poisons. A specific for poisoning by poison oak {Rhus, 
toxicodendron'), and other poisonous plants of that class, is to dissolve a handful of 
quicklime in water, let it stand half an hour, then paint the poisoned parts with it. 
Three or four applications will never fail to cure the most aggravated cases. Poison 
from bees, hornets, spider-bites, etc., is instantly arrested by the application of equal 
parts of common salt and bicarbonate of soda, well rubbed in on the place bitten or 
stung. 

XXII. Virulent Poisons and Their Antidotes. 

Oil of Vitriol, Aqua-Fortis, Spirit of Salt. — Antidotes— Ma.gi\%si.ii, chalk, 
soap and water. 

Emetic Tartar. — Antidotes — Oily drinks, solution of oak bark. 

Salt of Lemons or Acid of Sugar. — Antidotes — Chalk, whiting, lime or mag- 
nesia water. Sometimes an emetic draught. 

Prussic Acid. — Antidotes — Pump on back, smelling-salts to nose, artificial breath- 
ing, chloride of lime to nose. Strong prussic acid kills instantly. 



290 twentieth century home cook book. 

Pearlash, Soar Lees, Siaielling-Salts, Niter, Hartshorn, Sal Volatile. — 
Antidof es-^Lemon-juicc and vinegar and Avater. 

Arsenic:, Fly-Powder or White Arsenic, King's Yellow or Yellow Arsenic. 
— Antidotes — Emetics, limewater, soap and Avater, sugar and Avater, oily drinks. 

Mercury, Corrosia^e Sublimate, Calomel. — Antidotes — White of eggs, soap 

and Avater. 

Opium, Laudanum. — Antidotes — Emetic drauglit, vinegar and water, dashing 
cold AA-ater on chest and face, Avalking up and down for two or three hours. 

Lead, White Lead, Sugar of Lead, Goulard's Extract. —Antidotes — Epsom 
salts, castor oil and emetics. 

Copper, Blue-Stone, Verdigris. — Antidotes — Whites of eggs, sugar and water, 
castor oil, gruel. 

Zinc. — Antidotes — Limewater, chalk and water, soap and Avater. 

Iron. — Antidotes — Magnesia, warm water. 

Henbane, Hemlock, Nightshade, Foxgloa'e. — Antidotes — Emetic and castor 
oil, brandy and water if necessary. 

Poisonous Food. — Antidotes — Emetics and castor oil. 

XXIII. Health- Board Disinfectants. 

The instructions of the National Board of Health in relation to disinfectants 
and their use, with explanations as to disinfectants and deodorizers, are valuable. 
We have in XIX given simple means of deodorizing and disinfection. Deodorizers 
destroy smells; they do not necessarily disinfect. Disinfectants do not necessarily 
have odors, and some of the most virulent germs, as tjqihoid germs, may not, in 
water, be apparent to the sense of taste or smell. Disinfectants destroy the poisons 
of infectious and contagious diseases. 

Some disinfecting agents recommended by the Board are : 

"1. Roll-sulphur (brimstone) for fumigation. 

"2. Sidphate of iron (copperas) dissolved in Avater, the proportion of one and 
a half pound to the gallon ; for soil, scAvers, etc. 

"3. Sulphate of zinc and, common salt, dissolved together in water, in the pro- 
portions of four ounces sulphate and two ounces salt to the gallon ; for clothing, bed- 
linen, etc." 

XXIV. How to Use Disinfectants. 

"1. In the Sick-Eoom. — The most available disinfectants are fresh air and 
cleanliness. 

"The clothing, toAvels, bed-linen, etc., should, on removal from the patient, and 
before they are taken fi-oni the room, be placed in a pail of the zinc solution, boiling 
hot if possible. 

"All discharges should either be received in vessels containing copperas solution, 
or when this is impracticable, should be immediately covered with copperas solution. 
All vessels used about the patient should be cleansed with same solution. 



THE NURSERY AND SICK-EOOM. 291 

"Unnecessary furniture, especially that which is stuffed, carpets and hangings, 
should, when possible, be removed from the room at the outset; otherwise they should 
remain for subsequent fumigation and treatment. 

"2. Fumigation. — Sulphur is the only practicable agent for disinfecting the 
house. The rooms to be disinfected must be vacated. Heavy clothing, blankets, 
bedding, and articles which cannot be treated with zinc solution, should be opened 
and exposed during fumigation. Close the rooms as tightly as possible, place the 
sulphur in iron pans, supported uj^on bricks placed in wash-tubs containing a little 
water, set it on tire by hot coals, or with the aid of a spoonful of alcohol, and allow 
the rooms to remain closed for twenty-four hours. For a room ten feet square, at 
least two pounds of sulphur should be used ; for larger rooms proportionally increased 
q^uantities. 

"3. Premises. — Cellars, yards, stables, gutters, privies, cesspools, water- 
closets, drains, sewers, etc., should be frequently and liberally treated with copperas 
solution. It is easily prepared by hanging a basket containing about sixty pounds of 
copperas in a barrel of water. 

"4. Body and Bed Clothing, etc. — It is best to burn all articles which have 
been in contact with persons sick with contagious or infectious diseases. Articles too 
valuable to be destroyed should be treated as follows: 

"Cotton, linen, flannels, blankets, etc., should be treated with the boiling-hot 
zinc solution ; introduce piece by piece ; secure thorough wetting, and boil at least 
half an hour. 

" Heavy woolen clothing, silks, furs, stuffed bed-covers, beds and other articles 
which cannot be treated with the zinc solution, should be hung in the room during 
fumigation, their surfaces thoroughly exposed, and pockets turned inside out. 

" Afterward they should be hung in the open air, beaten and shaken. Pillows, 
beds, stuffed mattresses, upholstered furniture, etc., should be cut open, the contents 
spread out and thoroughly fumigated. Carpets are best fumigated on the floor, but 
should afterward be removed to the open air and thoroughly beaten. 

" 5. Corpses. — These should be thoroughly washed with a zinc solution of 
double strength ; should then be wrapped in a sheet, wet with the zinc solution, and 
buried at once. Metallic, metal-lined or air-tight cofSns should be used when pos- 
sible, certainly when the body is to be transported for any considerable distance." 



CHAPTER XXIII. 
CONTRIBUTIONS FBOM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 



I. VALUE OF CONDENSED INFORMATION. II. ORIGIN OF OUR HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. III. ECONOMY 

IN THE KITCHEN— WASHING DISHES. IV. THE DAMPER IN THE STOVE. V. REGULATING COAL 

FIRES. VI. THE USE OF WASTE PAPER. VII. CLEANING SOILED MARBLE, ETC. VIII, VERMIN- 
OUS INSECTS. IX. CLOTH AND FUR MOTHS. X. BOOK-DESTROYING INSECTS. XL KEROSENE. 

XII. THE LAUNDRY— SOME HELPS IN WASHING. XIU. STjVRCHING AND IRONING. — ^XIV. BLEACH- 
ING LINENS, ETC. XV. HOME-MADE SOAP AND CANDLES. XVI. TO CLEAN SILVER. XVII. 

SWEEPING. XVIII. PAPERING, KALSOMINING AND PAINTING. XIX. KjULSOMINING. XX. 

PAINTING. XXI. SPRING HOUSE -CLEjVNING. XXII. HOUSEHOLD HINTS XXIII. TOILET RECI- 
PES. XXIV. HOMEMADE WINES. XXV. HOME-MADE INKS. XXVI. RECIPES FOR GLUE. 

XXVII. THE DYER'S ART. XXVIII. COLORING DRESS AND OTHER FABRICS. XXIX. COLORING 

YELLOW, BLUE AND GREEN. XXX. SCARLET AND PINK. XXXI. COLORING BLACK, BROWN AND 

SLATE. XXXII. WALNUT COLORING— BLACK WALNUT. XXXIU. COLORING CARPET RAGS. 

I. Value of Condensed Information, 

IJ^ECIPES, to be of use, should be suited to the needs of those for whom they are 
«|^5^ intended. Elaborate preparations that can only be made by a chemist, or by 
/(yf^ ^jjg aid of scientific appliances beyond the reach of the masses, would be out of 
J'i place in a book of the practical nature of this work. 

Tables of useful facts are also of great value in every department of life, for the 
reason that they present at a glance necessary information that could not be otherwise 
given except by many pages of print. They are simj^le and valuable to have at 
hand when needed. Every person outside of cities and villages is interested, for 
instance, in knowing the number of plants that may be contained on a given piece of 
ground ; the quantity of seeds required per acre or per rod ; weights per bushel of 
various grains, and the number of seeds in an ounce or pound ; how to judge of the 
quality of land by its vegetation, and scores of other things of like kind. These we 
have grouped together in this volume so as to be easily examined, and so classified 
that no time need be sjoent in hunting for them. 

II. Origin of Our Household Recipes. 

In the course of the author's experience as agricultural editor and writer, many 
valuable, because simple, recipes relating to household art have come into his posses- 
sion, partly through correspondence with the best housekeepers and partly through 
communications to the journals with which he has been connected. The best of this 
collection have been selected for reproduction in this work. The household depart- 
ments have been prepared with the aid of a lady of long experience as a housekeeper, 
and well known for her patience and deft skill in nursing the sick. 

[393] 



CONTRIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 293 

III. Economy in the Kitchen— Washing Dishes. 

An English lady says : There are so many modes of washing dishes, that some will 
take it as quite unnecessary that they should be told how to do it. The proper way is 
perfectly simple. Have a pan of hot water in which a little soap has been dissolved, 
and then use a mop made of an old linen towel, or candle wicking fastened to the end 
of a stick, and then transfer them to a pan of still hotter water, and drain a moment, 
and wipe dry. This gives them an elegant polish. They should be wiped as soon as 
they have been through the last water, else they have a streaked effect, which can be 
felt, if not seen. It is the custom in England to drain them in racks, but we think 
our own mode the best — at least, with the white ware so fashionable in this country, 
and which is so little known there. 

The glassware should be washed first, then the silver, then the cups and saucers, 
etc., and the greasy dishes last. Never wash nor wipe more than one article at a 
time. When china is rough to the touch, it is simply because it is not cleansed. Hot 
water, and plenty of it, dry, clean towels and rapid wiping make the dishes shine 
like mirrors. You can wash glasses in quite hot water, by rolling them round in the 
water, filling them as soon as they touch it, thus making all portions of the glass 
equally hot. They will never crack if treated in this way. Dish-washing forms a 
large proportion of the daily life of the housekeeper, and anything which expedites it, 
and leaves time for other things, ought to be welcomed. 

IV. The Damper in the Stove, 

The following, on the use of the damper, by an editorial lady friend, although 
written for stoves in which wood is burned, contains information of equal value for 

those burning coal, whether hard or 
soft. The use of the instrument, must, 
however, be studied, since different 
fuels require different treatment. Con- 
cerning the damper, our contributor 
says: A damper in the stove is of 
great importance in a house — both as 
a matter of economy, and of comfort. 

ADJUSTABLE STOVE DAMPEB. t, , ,, i , • • ■ xi 

it makes the hot air remam in the 
stove, and does not take in the outside heated air, which is done through the crevices 
and proper drafts. If the damper is shut, you instantly feel the heat on your face, 
showino- that it is thus kept in the room. The circulation is thus stopped in the 
room, and a soft, pleasant atmosphere is the result. 

Economy in Fuel — The main item is, however, economy in fuel. Not more 
than half the quantity of wood is used, and yet an equal amount of heat is obtained. 
This is of some consequence to the purchaser, or to the person who has the wood to 
chop, and of course, has an extra amount to furnish when it goes roaring up the 




294 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

chimney. Then to the housekeeper, the fact that she gains more ashes by the use of 
a damper, is an inducement to use one, as they are not lost in the air. 

Wood Fuel. — Dry hard wood is positively necessary, where a damper is used. 
Dry hickory makes the best coals. Maple and birch come next, though the flame is 
not so hot and bright. The beech blazes well, but is too much like soft wood. 
When the blaze is gone there is not much left of it. With a damper you can use 
soft maple. It is often the case that when there is not a damper, the fire is contin- 
ually " o;oino- down," the heat is unequal, and the temperature of the room is being 
continually rendered cool — first dry, then damp, making it disagreeable and danger- 
ous. This matter is of the utmost importance to the housekeeper, and should be 
attended to. 

V. Regulating Coal Fires. 

Never fill a stove more than half or two-thirds full of coal, even in the coldest 
weather. When the fire is low, never shake the grate or disturb the ashes, but add 
from ten to fifteen lumps of coal, and set the draft on. When these are heated 
through and somewhat ignited, add the amount necessary for a new fire, but do not 
disturb the ashes yet. Let the draft be open half an hour. Then shake out the 
ashes. The coal has thoroughly ignited, and will keep the stove at a high heat from 
six to twelve hours, according to the coldness of the Aveather. In very cold weather, 
after the fire is made, add coal every hour. 

Use of Coal in Sick Rooms.— Mrs. M. G. L., of West Virginia, writes: 
You know what a racket is caused, even by the most careful hand, in supplying coal 
to a grate or stove, and how, when the performance is undertaken by Biddy, it 
becomes almost distracting. If you don't remember, take notice the first time you 
are ill, or have a dear patient in your care, or the baby is in a quiet slumber. Let 
some one bring in the coal scuttle or shovel, and revive your recollection. Well, the 
remedy we suggest is to put the coal in little paper bags, each holding about a 
shovelful. These can be laid quietly on the fire, and, as the paper ignites, the coals 
will softly settle in ])lace. 

You may fill a coal scuttle or box with such parcels, ready for use. For a 
sick-room, a nursery at night, or even for the library, the plan is admirable. Just 
try it. Besides, it is so cleanly. If you don't choose to provide yourself with 
paper bags, you can wrap the coals in pieces of newspapers at your leisure, and have 
them ready for use when occasion requires. Perhaps the "help" will kindly do it 
for you; or better still, the children, if the house is so sunshined, will attend to the 
wrapping, and think it fine fun. 

Economy in Coal.— Mrs. N. M., of St. Charles, Missouri, says: In any fire- 
place not excessively small, a plate of iron set upon the grate will halve the consump- 
tion of coal, reduce the smoke and leave a cheerful, free-burning fire. Quite sufiieient 
air enters through the bars, no poking is necessary and the fire never goes out until the 
coals are consumed. There is no ash and no dust, every particle being consumed. 



CONTRIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 295 

Any householder can try this experiment and reduce his coal bill, say thirty per cent, 
at the cost of a shilling. 

Care of Stoves. — Blackening and polishing stoves is hard work. Indeed, one 
of the best known lady writers on economy and household art, has said that a black- 
ened stove may be a nuisance. It may be so in more ways than one. Few house- 
keepers, says our authority, have time to blacken their stoves everyday, or even every 
week. Many wash them in either clean water or dish-water. This keeps them clean, 
but they look very brown. After a stove has been blackened, it can be kept looking 
very well for a long time by rubbing it with paper every morning. If I occasionally 
find a drop of gravy or fruit juice that the paper will not take off, I rub it with a wet 
cloth, but do not put on water enough to take off the blacking. 

VI. The Uses of Waste Paper. 

A CORRESPONDENT iu Little Rock, Arkansas, truly says: Comparatively few 
housekeepers are aware of the many uses to which waste paper may be put. After a 
stove has been blackened, it can be kept looking very well for a long time by rubbing 
with paper every min-ning. Rubbing with paper is a much nicer way of keeping the 
outside of a tea-kettle, coffee-pot and tea-pot bright and clean, than the old way of 
washing them in suds. Rubbing with paper is also the best way of polishing knives 
and tinware, after scouring. This saves wetting the knife handles. If a little flour 
be held on the paper in rubbing tinware and spoons, they shine like new silver. For 
polishing mirrors, windows, lamp-chimneys, etc., paper is better than dry cloth. 
After it has been so used it is none the worse for kindling fires. Preserves and pickles 
keep much better, if brown paper, instead of cloth, is tied over the jar. Canned 
fruit is not so apt to mold if a piece of writing paper, cut to fit the can, is laid directly 
on the fruit. Paper is much better to put under a carpet than straw. It is warmer, 
thinner, and makes less noise when one walks over it. Two thicknesses of paper 
placed between other coverings on a bed, are as warm as a quilt. If it is necessary 
to step upon a chair, always lay a paper on it and thus save the paint or woodwork 
from damage. A fair carpet can be made for a room not in constant use, by pasting 
several thicknesses of newspaper on the floor, over them a coat of wall-paper, and 
giving them a coat of varnish. 

VII. Cleaning Soiled Marble. 

Much annoyance is frequently experienced from soiling marble table-tops, 
kitchen slabs or other mai'ble objects. It is said that if slacked lime is mixed with a 
strono- solution of soap into a pasty mass and spread over the spot, and allowed to 
remain for twenty-four or thirty hours, then carefully washed off with soap and 
water and finally with pure water, the stain will be almost entirely removed, 
especially if the application be repeated once or twice. 

Ox-Gall and Lye. — Another preparation consists in mixing an ox-gall with a 
quarter of a pound of soap-boiler's lye, and an eighth of a pound of oil of turpen- 



296 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

tine, and adding enough pipc-cIay earth to form a paste, which is then to be phiced 
upon the marble for a time, and afterward scraped off, the application to be repeated 
until the marble is perfectly clean. It is quite possible that with all our endeavors a 
faint trace of the stains may be left; but it is said that this will be almost inappre- 
ciable. Should the spots be produced by oil, these are to be first treated with 
petroleum for the purpose of softening the hardened oil, and the above-mentioned appli- 
cations may be made subsequently. 

Ink Spots on Marble. — Ink spots may be removed by first washing with pure 
water, and then with a weak solution of oxalic acid. Subsequent polishing, however, 
will be necessary, as the luster of the stone may become dimmed. This can be best 
produced by very finely powdered soft white marble, applied with a linen cloth first 
dipped in water and then into the powder. If the place be subsequently rubbed with 
a dry cloth the luster will be restored. 

Grease Spots on Wood. — If one is so unfortunate as to get any sort of grease on 
floor or table, appl}^ directly potter's clay, just wet with water so as to foi'm a stiff 
paste. Spread it pretty thick upon the grease spot, and lay a thin paper over to keep 
it from being rubbed off. After twenty-four hours scrape it off and spread on fresh 
clay. It will gradually absorb the grease, and leave the floor or table clean; but it 
may need to be renewed several times. When the clay looks clean, wash off with 
soap and water. The clay is also good to take grease from clothing, applied in the 
same way. 

To Clean Tin Covers. — Mix a little of the finest powdered whiting with the 
least drop of sweet oil, rub the covers well with it, and wipe them clean; then dust 
over them some dry whiting in a muslin bag, and rub bright with dry leather. This 
last is to prevent rust, which the cook must guard against by wiping them dry and 
putting them by the fire when they come from the dining-room, for if hung up once 
damp, the inside will rust. 

VIII. Verminous Insects. 

Cockroaches and Bed-Bugs. — Cockroaches are the plague of many house- 
keepers, and yet a little Paris green is death to them. Keep it in a common flour- 
dredging box, label it poison, and apply it weekly to their haunts. Bed-bugs or 
chinch-bugs can also be dispersed and utterly routed with this remedy ; and both 
cockroaches and bed-bugs will flee from powdered borax. Travelers should always 
carry a paper of borax in their bags, and sprinkle it under and over their pillows, if 
they fear they shall become food for the last-named wretches. 

Ants and Plies. — Sprigs of worm-wood will drive away large black ants ; and 
none of them, whether black, brown or red, relish wintergreen, tansy, Paris green, 
cayenne or kerosene; so if they invade our pantries, we can, by a judicious application 
of some one of these articles, make the premises too unpleasant for them. Fly-paper 
should be kept around the house as early as the middle of May. Put it in every open 
window, and thus destroy every intruder. It must constantly be borne in mind, that 



CONTPJHUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 297 

the cobalt with which some tlj'-paper is saturated, and also Paris green, are two most 
deadly poisons. Keep them safely out of the way of children. 

Expelling Flies From Rooms.— It is stated that if two and a half pounds of 
powdered laurel leaves are macerated or boiled in two gallons of water, until their 
poisonous quality is extracted, and with the solution a whitewash is made, by adding 
as much quicklime as can be slaked in it, and if a room be Avhitewashed with this 
preparation, tlies will not settle on the walls for six months. If a paste, made by stir- 
ring together one pint of the powdered laurel leaves with a quarter pint of glycerine, be 
applied to windows and door casings, a room so prepared will soon be emptied of flies. 
Two applications of this paste are enough to keep even a kitchen clear of insects for 
a fortnight. 

There is nothing disagreeable or deleterious to human beings in the odor of the 
wash or paste, though laurel leaves, or laurel water, taken into the human stomach, 
acts as a violent poison. 

You may also drive flies out with a brush, ))ut, unless something is done to render 
the place uninviting to them, they will return immediately. There are many weeds 
or plants emitting an empyreumatic odor which answer well for the purpose. None 
are more effectual than the wild chamomile (INIayweed). The odor of this plant is not 
at all disagreeable, and branches of the weed when in flower, or some of the dried 
floi^ers, scattered about a room, will soon rid it of all flies. 

Another way is to throw some powdered black pepper on a hot shovel and carry 
it about the room. The generation of empyreumatic vapors in the same way from 
other spices will also, it is said, answer the purpose. A few drops of carbolic acid 
or creosote, on a cloth hung up in a sick-room or used in the dressings, would proba- 
bly be effectual, but the odor is not usually so acceptable to one's olfactories. 

The best thing of all is to keep them out. The author has never found any 
means of doing this so cheap, effectual and pleasant, as wire screens to all doors and 
windows. This will keep them out, with a little driving occasionally, if the doors all 
open outward. For mosquitoes and gnats, when it is impracticable to keep them out, 
as in the case of tents, used while camping out, a little brown sugar burned on coals 
we have found effective in some instances in driving them away, but of course a good 
mosquito-bar is the best. 

IX. Cloth and Fur Moths. 

The small moths so destructive to cabinets, tapestry, clothes, carpets, furs, 
grains, etc., are called tineans, and belong to the natural order lepidoptera. They 
have four membranous wings covered with imbricated scales, like fine powder — as 
the butterflies and moths. Among these are the carpet moth, the clothes moth, the 
fur moth, and the hair moth. These moths are nocturnal in their habits, flying in the 
evening. They do not lay their eggs in material in constant use, and therefore ward- 
robes, drawers, chests, etc., should be frequently examined, and the contents aired, 
and beaten to dislodge the eggs or larvaj. 
62 



298 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

In old houses subject to their depredations, the cracks in closets, and other ex- 
posed places, may be brushed over with turpentine or other odorous substances. 
Sheets of paper sprinkled with spirits of turpentine, powdered camphor, shavings of 
Russia leather or tobacco, are also preventives. Chests and boxes of camphor-wood, 
red cedar and Si)anisli cedar, are obnoxious to these insects, and are useful for pre- 
serving costly articles. 

The cloth linings of carriages, etc., may be preserved from their depredations by 
b ing sponged on both sides with a solution of corrosive sublimate in alcohol, just 
s .rong enough so that it will not bleach a black feather white. The insects may also 
' >e killed by fumigating with tobacco smoke, or the fumes of sulphur. It is also said 
that if hemp, in flower, cut and dried, be placed in a cushion, it will prevent the 
ravages of moths for years. 

Furs. — A good recipe for preserving furs from moths is : One ounce gum cam- 
phor and one of powdered shell of red pepper. Macerate in eight ounces of alcohol for 
several days, then strain. Sprinkle furs, etc., with this tincture, roll up in a clean 
cloth and lay away. 

X. Book- Destroying Insects. 

Books, large or small, made up of dry paper, are nesting-places for a variety of 
insects, hardly large enough to be recognized as living things. Besides making them- 
selves homes ))etween the leaves, they feast on the paste, binding, twine on the backs 
and the green mold that gathers on them if neglected. One species takes up residence 
in the binding, devouring as it goes. Another feeds upon the paste. Still another 
book pest that is sure to appear in a library, not overhauled and dusted occasionally, 
eats through a volume. 

Bookcases should not be made light with glass doors. Wire-netting is far prefer- 
able, because the books are kept drier; fresh air is all-important. An upper story is 
superior to a basement, being less liable to gather mold, which is a forest of minute 
vines in which bookworms ramble for exercise. Twice in each summer the books 
should be exposed to a bright sunlight while dusting them, also exposing the open 
leaves to a fresh current of air. 

XI. Kerosene. 

Kerosene is volatile and its vapor is explosive. Only the best oils — from 150 
degrees fire test up to 175 degrees— should be used. The oil does not explode. An 
oil may even extinguish a burning match when thrown into it, and yet be highly 
dangerous to be used as a burning fluid. It is the vapor of these oils mixed with air 
that is dangerous, as far as explosion is concerned. While a partly filled lamp has the 
portion above the oil filled with a mixture of vapor and air, it may explode. When 
a lamp is filled while lighted, the mixture of air and vapor in the can or filler explodes 
upon coming in contact with the flame ; the oil itself does not explode, though it does 
serious injury when scattered by the explosion. 

Test for Kerosene.— Dr. Nichols, the well-known chemist and writer on chem- 



CONTRIBUTIONS FROJI FKIENDS ON HOUSEIIOLU ECONOMY. 299 

ical science, advises the following test for kerosene : Fill a pint bowl two-thirds full 
of boiling water, and into it put a common metallic thermometer. The temperature will 
run up to over 200 degrees. B}' gradually adding cold water, bring down the tempera- 
ture of the water to 100 degrees, and then pour into the bowl a spoonful of the kero- 
sene, and apply a lighted match. If it takes fire, the article should be rejected as 
dangerous; if not, it may be used with a confident feeling of its safety. 

XII. The Laundry— Some Helps in Washing'. 

The Germans, and especially' the Belgians and Hollanders, are noted for their 
fine washing. Their method, which does away with the use of soda, is as follows: 
Dissolve two pounds of soap in about three gallons of water as hot as the hand can 
bear, and add to this one tablespoonful of turpentine and three of liquid ammonia; 
the mixture must then be Avell stirred, and the linen steeped in it for two or three 
hours, taking care to cover up the vessel containing them as nearly hermetically as 
possible. The clothes are afterwards washed out and rinsed in the usual way. The 
soap and water may be re-heated, and used a second time, but in that case half a 
tablespoonful of turpentine and a tablespoonful of ammonia must be added. The 
process will cause a great economy of time, labor and fuel. The linen scarcely 
suffers at all, as there is little necessity for rubbing, and its cleanliness and color are 
perfect. The ammonia and turpentine, although their detersive action is great, have 
no injurious effect upon the linen ; and while the former evaporates immediately, the 
smell of the latter will disappear entirely in drjn'ng the clothes 

Washing Stunraer Suits, etc. — Summer suits are nearly all made of white or 
buff linen, pique, cambric or muslin. "Whatever the material, common washerwomen 
spoil everything with soda, and nothing is nn)re frequent than to see the delicate tints 
of linens and percales turned into dark blotches and nuiddy streaks by the ignorance 
and vandalism of a laundress. It is worth while for ladies to pay attention to this, 
and insist upon having their summer dresses washed according to the directions which 
they should be prepared to give their laundresses themselves. In the first place the 
water should be tepid, the soa}) should not be allowed to touch the fabric; it should 
be washed and rinsed quickly, turned upon the wrong side, and hung in the shade to 
dry, and when starched (in thin boiled but not boiling starch) should be folded in 
sheets or towels, and ironed upon the wrong side as soon as possible. But hnen 
should be washed in water in which hay or a quart bag of bran has been boiled. 
This last will be found to answer for starch as well, and is excellent for print dresses 
of all kinds ; but a handful of salt is very useful to set the color of light cambrics 
and dotted lawns; and a little ox gall will not only set but brighten yellow and purple 
tints, and has a good effect upon green. — Adele. 

To Cleanse Blankets. — Put two large tablespoons of borax and a pint bowl of 
soft soap in a tub of cold water. When dissolved, put in a pair of blankets and let 
them remain over night. Next day rub them out, rinse thoroughly in two waters, and 
hang them to dry. Do not wring them. - S. E. F. 



300 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

To Wash Flannels. — I wonder if housekeepers know that flannel should never 
have soap smeared upon it, or be rubbed upon aboard? A hot suds should be made, 
and the flannel should be squeezed through it, rubbing the dirtiest portions in the 
hands as lightly as possible. When the stains are softened, another warm water should 
be read}', into which dip the flannels, and squeeze them dry as possible out of it. 
Shake them well, and hang them out where the wind will not strike them hard; never 
hang them in the sun. — A. W. 

Washing Fluid. — Three tablespoonfuls of soda, the same quantity of dissolved 
camphor (the saine as kept for family use), to a quart of soft water; bottle it up, 
and shake well before using. For a large washing take four tablespoonfuls of fluid 
to a pint of soap, make warm suds and soak the clothes half an hour; then make 
another suds, using the same quantity of soap and fluid, and boil them just fifteen 
minutes, then rinse in two waters. — Mamie, Lake County, Ind. 

To Remove Acid Stains and Restore Color. — When color on a fabric has 
been destroyed by acid, ammonia is applied to neutralize the same, after which an 
a})plication of chloroform will, in almost all cases, restore the original color. The 
application of ammonia is common; but that of chloroform is but little known. 
Chloroform will remove paint from a garment or elsewhere, when benzole or bisul- 
phide of carbon fails. 

To Preserve Clothes-Pins. — They should be boiled a few moments and 
quickly dried, once or twice a month, when they become more flexible and durable. 
Clothes lines will last longer and keep in better order for wash-day service, if occa- 
sionally treated in the same way. 

To Remove Grease from Worsted — Take one-quarter pound of Castile 
soap, one-quarter pound ammonia, very strong, one ounce sulphuric ether, one ounce 
spirits of wine, one ounce glycerine. To mix this cut the soap fine and dissolve in 
one quart of soft water, and then add four more qiuirts of water and all ingredients. 

Two or three daily applications of benzine will also remove the grease spots. 
Apply with brush or woollen cloth. Do not make the application in a wai'm room, as 
the article is highly inflammable. — Maggie, Eichland, Mich. 

XIII. Starching and Ironing. 

Starch and iron shirt bosoms as usual, and when the articles are thoroughly dry, 
place one at a time on a narrow, hard and very smooth board, which has one thickness 
of cotton cloth over it, sewed tightly ; have the polishing iron heated so that it will 
not scorch, and rub it quick and hard over the surface, up and down the bosom, using 
only the rounded part on the front of the iron. A still higher polish may be obtained 
by passing a damp cloth hghtly over the smooth surface, and then rubbing hard and 
quickly with the hot iron. It needs a good deal of patient practice to do this admir- 
abl.y, but when once learned, it is as easy as other ironing. A polishing iron is small 
and highly polished, with a rounded part, which allows all the friction to come on a 



Contributions froji friends on household economy. 301 

small part at one time, which develops the gloss that may be in both linen and starch. 
Collars and cuffs look nicely done in this way. 

For Lawns. — Take two ounces of tine white gum Arabic powder, put it into a 
pitcher, and pour on a pint or more of water, and then, having covered it, let it stand 
all night. In the morning, pour it carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle, cork 
it and keep it for use. A teaspoouful of gum water stirred into a pint of starch made 
in the usual manner, will give to lawns, either white or printed, a look of newness, 
when nothing else can restore them, after they have been washed. 

Gloss for Shirt Fronts, Collars and Cuffs. — To a pail of starch, a whole 
sperm candle is used. "When the linen is dry, it is dipped in the cold starch and 
ironed in the ordinary way ; then it is dampened with a wet cloth, and the polishing 
iron pressed over it. To this last manipulation the linen is indebted for the peculiar 
laundry gloss which all admire so much, but which many housekeepers have vainly 
striven to leave upon the wristbands and bosoms of their husbands' shirts. 

XIV. Bleaching Linens, Etc. 

The best method of bleaching or restoring whiteness to discolored linen is to let 
it lie on the grass, day and night, so long as it is necessary, exposed to the dews and 
winds. There may occur cases, however, when this will be difEcult, and when a 
quicker process may be desirable. In these cases, the linen must be first steeped for 
twelve hours in a lye formed of one pound of soda to a gallon of soft boiling water; 
it must then be boiled for half an hour in the same liquid. A mixture must then be 
made of chloride of lime with eight times its quantity of water, which must be well 
shaken in a stone jar for three daj^s, then allowed to settle; and being drawn off 
clear, the linen must be steeped in it for thirty-six hours, and then washed out in the 
ordinary manner. To expedite the whitening of linen in ordinary cases, a little of 
the same solution of chloride of lime may be put into the water in which the clothes 
are steeped; but in the employment of this powei'ful agent, great care must be exer- 
cised, otherwise the linen will be injured. — Housekeeper, Louisville, Ky. 

Bleaching Cotton Goods. — A very good way, says Mrs. M. T. M., Auburn, 
111., to bleach cotton cloth is to soak it in buttermilk for a few days. Another way 
is to make a good suds, put from one to two tablespoonfuls of turpentine into it, 
before putting the clothes in. Wash as usual, wringing the clothes from the boil, and 
dryino- without rinsing. By using one tablespoonful of turpentine in the first suds on 
washinc days, it will save half the labor of rubbing, and the clothes will never 
become yellow, but will remain a pure white. It is simple, and I never wash 
without it. 

To Clean Merino. — Grate two or three large potatoes ; add to them a pint of 
cold water; let them stand for a short time and pour off the liquor clear, when it 
will bo fit for use. Lay the merino on a flat surface and apply the liquid with a clean 
sponge until the dirt is completely extracted. Dip each piece in a pailful of clean 



302 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



water and hang up to dry without wringing. Iron while damp on the wrong aide. 
It will then appear almost 0(jual to new. — Nellik, Jefferson, 111. 

Removing Iron Rust Wash the stains in ripe tomatoes. Then hang in the 

sun to dry. After thoroughly drying, wash in clear water. 

XV. Home-Made Soap and Candles. 

Soft-Soap. — In making soft-soap, use a pine barrel, for a hard-wood barrel will 
warp and leak. A well-cleansed hsh barrel is commonly taken for the purpose. Put 
in ten to twelve pounds of potash, and throw upon it two pailfuls of boiling water. 
Let it digest awhile and then put in two pounds of grease to each joound of potash. 
Have the grease hot. Let that digest awhile, then add a third pailful of hot water. 
Stir and digest awhile, then add another pailful of hot water. Keep doing this until 
the barrel is within six inches of being full. Stir occasionally until the whole is well 
mixed. It should stand three months before use. Stir occasionally during the- first 
week. The longer it stands after making, the better the soap. We keep it a year 
before use. — W. Niagara Co., N. Y. 

Another Way. — For one barrel of soap, take thirty pounds of grease, free 
from salt, rinds or bits of lean meat, and the 13'e from two barrels of good ashes. 
Put one quart of lime in the bottom of each barrel of ashes. Put boiling water on to 
leach with ; have ready the soap barrel where it is to stand. When the lye begins to 
run, melt the grease in a little lye and pour it in the barrel. Heat the lye and fill it 
full, stirring frequently until cold. I always use the stove kettle, as that is free from 
rust, which makes white cloth yellow. Soap made in this way will be very light- 
colored and thick, and requires but little labor in making. If the lye is not strong 
enough to eat the grease, boil it awhile. — Mrs. A. G. 

Cold-Made Soap. — Have lye strong enough to bear up an egg. Then stir in 
any soap grease until the lye is pretty well filled, and in a week, or ten days the soap 
will be fit for use. In the meantime, stir occasionall3^ — Mes. M. A. C, Labette Co., 
Kan. 

Hard-Soap. — Five pounds soda ash, two and a half pounds white lime, one-half 
pound resin, ten pounds grease, eight gallons soft water. Boil five hours. Take the 
soda ash and lime, put them in your kettle, pour the water over, and boil one-half 
hour. Then let it settle, and turn off the lye. Lift out the lime and soda ash, turn 
over it more water, as it is j^et quite strong, return the lye to the kettle, add the grease 
and resin, and boil five hours. This makes excellent soap. — Mes. E. A. H., North 
Benton, O. 

Second Recipe for Hard Soap. — Pour four gallons of boiling water over six 
pounds of salsoda and three pounds of unslaked lime. Stir the mixture well and 
let it stand over night. Then drain it off. Put six pounds of tallow, or any kind of 
clear grease with it, and boil it two hours, stirring most of the time. — C. E. S., 
Carondelet, Mo. 



CONTKIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 3 OS 

Lard Candles. — T:ike twelve pounds of laid, one pound saltpeter, one pound 
alum. Pulverize and mix the saltpeter and alum; dissolve the comi)ound in a gill of 
boiling water; pour the compound into the lard before it is quite melted. Stir the 
whole until it boils, and skim off what rises. Let it simmer until the water is all 
boiled out, or until it ceases to throw off steam. Pour off the lard as soon as it is 
done, and clean the boiler while it is hot. If the candles are to be run in a mould, 
you may commence at once, but if to be dipped, let the lard cool first and cake. Then 
treat as you would tallow. — Nettie, Terrc Haute, Ind. 

Hardening Tallow. — Take the common prickly pear and boil or fry it in the 
tallow, without water, for half an hour, then strain and mould. I use about six 
average-sized leaves to the pint of tallow (by weight one pound of leaves to four of 
tallow), splitting them up fine. They make the tallow as hard as stearine, and do not 
injure its burning qualities in the least. — Mrs. E. L. O., Waco, Tex. 

XVI. To Clean Silver. 

A LADY correspondent in Southern California sends the following: Silver is 
most susceptible of spotting and discoloration by sea air, the human perspiration, the 
presence of sulphureted hydrogen (as seen in an egg spoon left uncleaned), the 
excreta of cockroaches and other strong-smelling insects, and lastly, by the contact 
of mice; the latter cause has irretrievably injured new plated-ware, never used, but 
left on a sideboard accessible to these little vermin. It is the practice of the East- 
Indian jewelers never to touch silver and gold with any abrasive substance. The 
most delicate filigree work and wire constructions of silver are rendered snowy white 
by their simple manipulation. They cut some juicy lemons in slices;, with these they 
rub any large silver or plated article briskly, and leave it hidden by the slices in a 
pan for a few hours. For delicate jewelry, they cut a large lime nearly in half and 
insert the ornament; then they close up the halves tightly and put it away for a few 
hours. The articles are then to be removed, rinsed in two or three waters, and con- 
signed to a saucepan of nearly boiling soapsuds, well stirred about, taken out, again 
brushed, rinsed, and finally dried on a metal plate over hot water, finishing the 
process by a little rub of wash leather (if smooth work). 

For very old, neglected or corroded silver, the article may be dipped, with a 
slow stirring motion, in rather a weak solution of cyanide of potassa, but this process 
requires care and practice, as it is by dissolving off the dirty silver you obtain the 
effect. Green tamarind pods or oxalate of potash are greater detergents of gold and 
silver articles than lemons, and are much more employed by the artisan for removal 
of oxides and fire-marks. 

A strong solution of hyposulphite of soda, as used by photographers, is perhaps 
the safest wash, as it will in no way attack the metallic silver, but only the films of 
chloride, etc., an its surface. 



304 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XVII. Sweeping. 

If brooms arc wet in boiling suds once n, week tliej^ will become very tough, will 
not cut the carpet, will last much longer, and always sweep as clean "as a new broom," 
if kept hanging up when not in use. A most admirable way of sweeping a dusty 
carpet is to have a pail of clean cold water stand by the door, into which the broom 
can be dipped, taking care to shake all the drops out of it, by knocking it hard 
against the side of the pail. Then sweep a couple of yards or so, wet the broom 
ao-ain, and sweep as before. When carefully done, and the droj^s are all shaken out, 
it will clean a very dirty carpet nicelj^, and you will be surprised at the amount of 
dirt removed. Sometimes you will need to change the water two or three times. In 
winter, snow can be sprinkled over the carpet and swept off, before it has time to 
dissolve. Some throw dow'n tea-grounds, and sweep them off l)riskly. Fresh grass 
is an excellent cleiinser of a carpet, strewn thickly about and swept hard. Moistened 
Indian meal has proved of good effect. — Ella W., Lincoln, Neb. 

XVIII. To Paper V7alls. 

Mrs. Annie R. White, for many years literar}^ and household editor of the 
Western Rural, discourses as follows about the way to paper rooms: Don't try to 
pajjer with a carpet down. Make paste, cut bordering and the paper the day before. 
If the wall has been whitewashed, it must be washed in vinegar to neutralize the alkali 
in the lime. If papered before, and 3^ou wish the pajjcr removed, sop with water and it 
will peel off. If convenient, provide a long board, wide as the paper, though a table 
or two will do. The pajjcr must be measured, placed right side down on the board; 
then with a brush proceed to lay on the paste, not too thickly, but over everj^ part, 
and be careful that the edges receive their share. When completed, double within 
three inches of the top, the paste sides being together; carr^^ to the wall, mount j^our 
chair, and stick your three inches of pasted paper on the wall at the top. That holds 
it; now strip down the other end, and see that it fits just right; if not, peel down, 
make rigiit, then press to the wall from the center right and left. Leave no air under, 
or when warm it willexpand, bursting the paper. 

Of course the paper must be matched ; it will not do to measure by lines unless 
the walls are perfectly pluml). Small figures nudce less waste, and make a small room 
look larger. Stripes nuike a low room look higher, and if there are no figures 
between, or in the stripe to match, there is no waste, and no trouble in putting on 
If a narrow border is the style, let it be bright, if the paper be neutral; but if that be 
bright, the border had better be dark and neutral. If the paste be made too thick, 
the paper will be apt to crack and peel off; if too thin, it will saturate the paper too 
quickly, and make it tender in putting it on. A counter-duster (Brussels brush) is 
nice to brush the paper to the wall. White clean cloths will do, but it will not do to 
rub the paper with this; being damp, the paint or color rubs off the paper. The 
tables must be dried each time after pasting, for the same reason. Paste under paper 



CONTKlBUTlONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 305 

must not freeze, nor be dried too quickly. If whitewashing is done after papering, 
tack double strips of newspaper wider than the border all around the room, to pre- 
vent its soiling the paper, 

Papering Whitewashed Walls. — If the walls are covered with thick, scaly 
whitewash, the result of years of additions, they must be scraped with a thin steel 
scraper — a hoe will do if carefully used. This will smooth them. Then wash them 
in weak lye and sweep off thoroughly when dry. Size the walls with glue water, one 
pound of glue to a pail of water, and the paper will stick and not peel off. The 
paste should be smooth rye Hour paste, rather thin, but perfectly smooth. Starch 
paste is the next best. — Painter-Tuened-Farmee, Lincoln, Neb. 

XIX. Kalsomining, 

There are as many ways to kalsomine as there are to whitewash. The simplest 
mode we know of is to take ten pounds of Paris white, and soak it in cold water — 
just enough water to dissolve it well. Take one-eighth of a pound best white glue, 
soaked in cold water enough to cover. Let it soak three to four hours; or till well 
swelled. If there is much liquid by the time the glue is well swollen, take the glue 
out and put it in a saucepan over the fire, with a little water to keep it from burning. 
Mix the dissolved whitening thoroughly with the hand. Then add the melted glue, 
mixing well. This mixing needs to be done in a large vessel. Then pour into these 
ingredients a quarter of a pint of linseed oil, and on top of oil pour sufEcient muriatic 
acid (perhaps ten cents' worth) to cut the oil, stirring it the while. After this is 
done, add cold water enough to the whole to thin it down to about a pailful of the 
liquid. Then mix a little ultramarine in a cup of cold water, and add to the whole, 
so as to remove the yellow tinge, and make it a bluish white. Apply with a clean 
whitewash brush, one or two coats. So says Mrs. O. A. N., who adds, that her hus- 
band does the kalsomining. 

XX. Painting. 

Best Time for Outside Work. — Paint houses late in the autumn or during 
the winter. Paint then will endure twice as long as when applied in early summer, 
or in hot weather. In the cold season it dries slowly and becomes hard, like a glazed 
surface, not easily affected afterward by the weather, or worn off by storms. But 
in very hot weather the oil in the paint soaks into the wood at once, as into a sponge, 
leaving the lead nearly dry, and ready to crumble off. This last difficulty might be 
guarded against, though at an increased expense, by first going over the surface with 
raw oil. By painting in cold weather, one annoyance might certainly be escaped — 
the collection of small flies in the fresh paint. 

Recipe for Inside Paint. — A cheap inside paint, and by no means a bad one, 
especially where the smell of oil or turpentine would be objectionable, or in any case 
where lead paint is not desirable, may be made by taking eight ounces of freshly 
slaked lime, and mixing it in an earthen vessel, with three quarts of skimmed sweet milk. 



306 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

In another vessel mix three and a half pounds of Paris white with three pints of 
skimmed milk. When these mixtures are well stirred up, put them together, and 
add six ounces of linseed oil. Mix these well, and it will be ready for use. This 
preparation is equal to oil paint, and is excellent for walls and ceilings. Any shade 
may be made liy the addition of dry pigments. — Painter-turned-Fakmer. 

To Soften Putty. — To remove old putty from Ijroken windows, dip a small 
brush in nitric or muriatic acid (obtainable at any druggist's), and with it paint over 
the dry putty that adheres to the broken glass and frames of your windows; after 
an hour's interval, the putty will become so soft that it can be removed easily. 

XXI. Spring House-Cleaning. 

Now is the time that tries women's souls, and no sound is heard o'er the house 
save the scrub-brnsh, the mop and the broom. The spring cleaning is at hand. 

Blankets and Furs. — And first, there are all the woollens, blankets, etc., to be 
washed, and all that can be spared (for we dare not put them all out of sight, lest we 
provoke another snow-storm), are to be packed away in deep chests, and plenty of 
cedar boughs strewn over them, or else powdered camphor gum. The fortunate 
possessor of a cedar-wood trunk need have no apprehensions, but without that, the 
moth-millers will make sad havoc among your furs, woolens, etc., unless you guard 
them carefully. 

The Carpets. — All carpets do not need to be taken up ; those which do not, 
can be loosened at the edges, the dust-brush pushed under a piece, and a clean sweep 
of all the dust can be made. Then, wash the floor thus swept, with strong soap-suds, 
and spirits of turpentine after. Then, tack the carpet down. The odor is soon 
gone, if you open your windows, and you can feel safe for this summer, at least. 
Upholstered furniture can be treated to the same bath, if applied with a soft, clean 
cloth, and the colors will receive no injury. But before using it, brush the cushions 
with a stiff hand-brush and a damp cloth, so as to take away all the dust. 

A good way to clean straw matting after it is laid, is to sprinkle corn-meal over 
it, or damp sand, and sweep it thoroughly' out. 

Windows Washed. — Windows are hard to wash, so as to leave them clear 
and polished. First, take a wooden knife, sharp-pointed and narrow-bladed, and 
pick out all the dirt that adheres to the sash ; dry whiting makes the glass shine nicely. 
I have read somewhere, that weak black tea and alcohol is a splendid preparation 
for cleaning the window-glass, and an economical way to use it would be to save the 
tea-grounds for a few days, and then boil them over in two quarts of water and add a 
little alcohol when cold. Apply with a newspaper and rub well off with another paper, 
and the glass will look far nicer than when cloth is used. 

The Beds.— When mattresses and feather-beds become soiled, make a paste of 
soft-soap and starch, and cover the spots. As soon as it dries, scrape off the paste 
and wash with a damp sponge. If the spots have not disappeared, try the paste 
again. — Annie E. W. 



CONTRIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 307 

XXII. Household Hints. 

Seventeen Pacts. — A good housekeeper kindly sends the following maxims and 
recipes, " all warranted tried and approved:" 

1 . Simple salt and water cleans and preserves matting more effectually than any 
other method. 

2. Tepid tea cleans grained wood. 

3. Oil-cloth should be brightened, after washing with soap and water, with 
skimmed milk. 

4. Salt and water washing preserves bedsteads from being infected by vermin; 
also, mattresses. 

5. Kerosene oil is the best furniture oil; it cleanses, adds a polish, and pre- 
serves from the ravages of insects. 

6. Green should be the prevailing color for bed hangings and window drapery. 

7. Sal-soda will bleach; one spoonful is sufficient for a kettle of clothes. 

8. Save your suds for the garden and plants, or to harden yards when sandy. 

9. A hot shovel held over varnished furniture will take out spots. 

10. A bit of glue dissolved in skimmed milk and water will restore old rusty crape. 

11. Ribbons of any kind should be washed in cold suds and not rinsed. 

12. If flat-irons are rough, rub them well with salt, and it will make them 
smooth. 

13. If you are buying a carpet for durability, you must choose small figures. 

14. A bit of soap rubbed on the hinges of doors will prevent them from 
creaking. 

15. Scotch snuff, if put in the holes where crickets run out, will destroy them. 
IG. To get rid of moths and roaches from closets and bureau drawers, sprinkle 

powdered borax over and around the shelves, and cover with clean paj^er 

17. To remove grease-spots apply a stiff paste to the wrong side of the material 
or garment ; hang it up and leave it some time ; the grease will have been entirely 
absorbed by the paste, which can then be rubbed off. 

Furniture Doctored. — To take out bruises from furniture, wet the part with 
warm water; double a piece of brown paper five or six times, soak it, and lay it on 
the place; apply on that a hot iron till the moisture is evaporated; two or three 
applications will raise the dent or bruise level with the surface. If the bruise be 
small, merely soak it with warm water, and apply a red-hot iron very near the sur- 
face; keep it continually wet, and in a few minutes the bruise will disappear. To 
remove stains, wash the surface with stale beer or vinegar; the stains will be removed 
by rubbing them with a rag dipped in spirits of salt. Ee-polish as you would new 
work. If the work be not stained, wash with clean spirits of turpentine and re-polish 
with furniture oil. 

To Clean Looking-Glasses. — Wash a piece of soft sponge, remove all gritty 
particles from it; dip it lightly into water, squeeze it out again, and then dip it into 



308 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

spirits of wine; rub it over the glass, dust it with powdered blue or whiting sifted 
through muslin ; remove it lightlj^ and quickly with a clean cloth, and finish with a 
silk handkerchief. If the glass be a large one, clean one-half at a time, otherwise 
the spirits of wine will dry before it can be removed. If the frames are gilt, the 
greatest care must be taken to prevent the spirits of wine from touching them. To 
clean such frames, rub them well with a little dry cotton wool; this will remove all dust 
and dirt, without injury to the gilding. If the frames are varnished, they may be 
rubbed with the spirits of wine, which will take out all the spots and give the varnish 
a good polish. — -Mattie M., Cleveland, O. 

Fastening Window Sashes. — A convenient way to prevent loose window 
sashes from rattling unpleasantly when the wind blows, is to make four one-sided 
buttons of wood, and screw them to the stops, which are nailed to the face-casings of 
the window, making each button of proper length to press the side of the sash 
outward when the end of the button is turned horizontally. The buttons operate like 
a cam. By having them of the correct length to crowd the sills of the sash outward 
against the outer stop of the window frame, the sash will not only be held so firmly 
that it cannot rattle, but the crack which admitted dust and a current of cold air will 
be closed so tightly that no window strips will be required. The buttons should be 
ulaced about half-way from the upper to the lower end of each stile of the sashes. 

French Polish. — To one pint of spirits of wine add half an ounce of gum 
shellac, half an ounce of gum lac, and half an ounce of gum sandarac; place the 
whole over a gentle heat, frequently stirring till the gums are dissolved. Then make 
a roller of list, put a portion of the mixture upon it, and cover that with a soft linen 
rag, which must be slightly touched with cold-drawn linseed oil. Eub them into the 
wood in a circular direction, covering only a small space at a time, till the pores of 
the wood are filled up. Finish in the same manner with spirits of wine with a smaU 
portion of the polish added to it. If the article to be polished has been previously 
waxed, it must be cleaned off with the finest sand-paper. 

Restoring Furniture — An old cabinet-maker writes that the best preparation 
for cleaning picture-frames and restoring furniture, especially that somewhat marred 
or scratched, is a mixture of three parts of linseed oil and one part spirits of turpen- 
tine. It not only covers the disfigured surface, but restores the wood to its original 
color, and leaves a luster upon the surface. Put on with a flannel, and when dry, 
rub with a clean soft wooden cloth. 

Rough on Grease. — The following will be found a most excellent preparation 
for taking grease-spots from carpets or other fabrics : Four ounces white Castile soap, 
four ounces alcohol, two ounces ether, three ounces ammonia, one ounce glycerine. 
Cut the soap fine ; dissolve in one quart soft water over the fire ; then add four quarts 
more soft water, after which add the spirits, and bottle. Cork tight. Apply with 
a stiff brush, and rinse. * 

To Brighten Carpets.— Dissolve a handful of alum in a pail of water, dip 
your broom in, shaking it well, and sweep a small space. Then re-dip the broom, and 



CONTRIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 309 

sweep as before, until you have gone over the whole carpet. You cannot imagine how 
it will renew the colors in the carpet, especially green. — Housekeeper. 

Laying Down Oil-Cloths — Oil-cloths always come in rolls. The nearer wc 
buy, says a correspondent, towards the last end of the piece the more they will shrink 
after laying them down. To prevent this, unroll them, place them smoothly on 
the floor wrong side up, and use them so for a week or even two. Then turn 
them, and tack them to the floor. This method prevents their pulling up and crack- 
ing, as we often see new oil-cloth do. 

Cleaning Gold Chains. — Put the chain in a small glass bottle, with warm 
water, a little tooth-powder and some soap. Cork the bottle, and shake it for a minute 
violently. The friction against the glass polishes the gold, and the soap and chalk 
extract every particle of grease and dirt from the interstices of a chain of the most 
intricate pattern ; rinse it in clear, cold water, and wipe with a towel. 

To Whiten Ivory. — Boil alum in water; into this immerse your ivory, and let 

it remain one hour; then rub the ivory with a cloth, wipe it clean with a wet hnen rag, 

and lay it in a moistened cloth to prevent its drying too quickly, which causes it to 

crack. 

XXIII. Toilet Recipes, 

To Remove Freckles. — Take one ounce Venice soap, one-half ounce lemon- 
juice, one-quarter ounce oil bitter almonds, one-quarter ounce deliquated oil of 
tartar, three drops oil of rhodium. Dissolve the soap in lemon-juice, and add the 
two oils. Place in the sun until it becomes an ointment. Then add the rhodium. 
Anoint at night with this ointment, then wash in the morning with pure water, or 
mixture of elder-blows and rosewater. — H. B., ZanesviDe, Wis. 

Pace Wash. — Take a small piece of gum benzoin, boil in spirits of wine until 
it is a rich tincture. Use fifteen drops in a glass of water, three or four times a day. 
Let it remain on to dry. It is very efiicacious in removing spots, eruptions, etc. — 
Mary E., Cedar Falls, Iowa. 

Curling False Hair. — ^W^ind the hair on smooth round sticks about as large as 
a curling iron, fasten the ends firmly to the stick, then wind over the hair a strip of 
cloth, which must also be fastened at the ends, put in a dish of warm water sufiicient 
to cover, and let it boil two hours. Remove from the water and place in a moder- 
ately heated oven to remain until nearly dry, when they should be placed in the sun 
or near the stove until they are perfectly dry, when they may be unwound from the 
sticks and brushed over the finger. If too dry or not sufficiently glossy, put a little 
oil on the brush. Care should be taken while the hair is in the oven that it does not 
become too warm. — "Perdu." 

Stimulant for the Hair. — One of the best stimulants to promote the growth 
of the hair, when there is danger of baldness, and to hasten growth, is as follows: 
One pint alcohol, castor oil enough to take up the alcohol, two ounces spirits ammonia, 
one-quarter ounce oil origanum, one-quarter ounce tincture cantharides. Shake all 
well together before using. Apply about four times a week. 



310 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Cleansing the Hair. — Use a tablespoonful or two of common spirits of harts- 
horn, in a basin of water; then thoroughly wash the scalp and hair until they are 
clean; then wash with clean water, wipe dry, and apply a little light oil or pomade, 
if needed, to prevent taking cold. 

Another good hair-wash is : Beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, rub well into 
the roots of the hair. Leave it to dry. Wash the head clean with equal parts rum 
and rose water. 

Dandruff can be removed by washing the head with buttermilk ana thoroughly 
cleansing with pure soft water afterward. — Farmer's Girl. 

Glycerine Ointment. — A glycerine ointment for chaps and excoriations is 
made as follows: One-half ounce spermaceti melted together with a drachm of white 
wax and two fluid ounces of oil of almonds by a moderate heat ; the mixture is poured 
into a mortar, when a fluid ounce of glycerine is added to it and rubbed till the in- 
gredients are thoroughly mixed and cold. 

Court Plaster. — Soak isinglass in a little warm water for twenty-four hours ; 
then evaporate nearly all the water by a gentle heat, dissolve the residue in a little 
proof spirits of wine, and strain the whole through a piece of open linen. The 
strained mass should be a stiff jelly when cool. Now, extend a piece of silk on a 
wooden frame and fix it tight with tacks and thread. Melt the jellj^, and apply it to 
the silk thinly and evenly with a hairbrush. A second coating must be applied when 
the first has dried. When both are dry, cover the whole surface with two or three 
coatings of balsam of Peru, applied in the same way. 

XXIV. Home-Made Wines. 

Teimperance writes from Benton Harbor, Michigan : "I think you will find these 
two recipes all right." 

Unfermented Wine. — Take the pure juice of well-ripened grapes, put in a 
porcelain kettle with about one pound of best white sugar to each gallon of juice, and 
let it boil gently, skimming carefully. Let it simmer slowly till it is reduced about 
one-fifth. Then bottle or can while hot, and you have a rich, refreshing drink. 

Elderberry Wine. — To every quart of the berries put a quart of Avafer and 
boil for half an hour. Bruise from the skin and strain, and to every gallon of juice 
add three pounds of double-refined sugar and one-quarter ounce of cream of tartar, 
and boil for half an hour. Take a clean cask and put in it one pound of raisins to 
every three gallons of wine, and a slice of toasted bread covered with good yeast. 
AVhen the wine has become quite cool, put it into a cask and place in a room of even 
temperature to ferment. When this has fully ceased, put the bung in tight. No 
brandy or alcohol should be added. 

XXV. Home-Made Inks. 

A GOOD black ink may be nutde as folloM's : One gallon of soft water, one-quar- 
ter of a pound extract of logwood, twenty grains bichromate potash, fifteen grains 



CONTRIBUTIOXS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 311 

prussiate potash. Heat the logwood and water to a boiling i)oint and skim well. 
Dissolve the potash in one-half a pint of hot water and put all together, stirring well. 
Boil three minutes; strain and il is tit for use. A few cloves put in each bottle will 
prevent it from molding. 

Ink not Injured by Freezing. — Take about one handful of maple bark — the 
inside bark, the outside bark having been scraped off. Put it in three pintjs of water 
and boil until the strength is all out of the bark ; then strain the bark out of the 
ooze. Put in the ooze half a tablespoonful of copperas, and boil five or ten minutes 
until the copperas is all dissolved. Keep stirring. This will make near one gill of 
good ink that will not be injured by freezing. — J. E. L., Cambridge, Ind. 

Indelible Ink. — Four drachms nitrate of silver, four ounces rainwater, six 
drops solution of nut-galls, and one-half a drachm gum Arabic. This will make an 
ink which will not fade, and costs very little. 

Indelible Inks for Brushes. — For using with a marking-brush, an ink may 
be made by diluting coal tar with benzine to a proper consistency, or equal parts of 
vermilion and copjDeras may be rubbed up with oil varnish. Either of these holds 
well on linen or cotton fabrics. 

Ink for Zinc Labels. — An ink for zinc only, that will endure for years, cuts 
slightly into metal, has a black color, and is as legible after a dozen years as when 
newly written, is made as follows: One part verdigris, one part sal ammonia, half 
part lampblack, and ten parts of water; mix well and keep in a bottle with a glass 
stopj^er; shake the ink before using it. It will keep any length of time. Write it 
on the label with a steel pen, not too fine pointed. It dries in a minute or two. — 

NuESEEYMAJSr. 

XXVI. Recipes for Glue. 

Isinglass and Spirits. — A strong and fine glue may be prepared with isinglass 
and spirits of wine, thus : Steep the isinglass for twenty-four hours in spirits of wine 
and common brandy; when opened and mollified, all must be gently boiled together 
and kept well stirred until they appear well mixed, and a drop thereof, suffered to 
to cool, presently turns to a strong jelly. Strain it while hot through a clean linen 
cloth, into a vessel, to be kept close stopped. A gentle heat suffices to dissolve the 
glue into an almost colorless fluid, but very strong, so that pieces of Avood glued 
together with it will sooner separate elsewhere than in the parts joined. 

A Strong Cement. — Mix a handful of quicklime with four ounces of linseed 
oil; boil them to a good thickness, then spread it on tin plates in the shade, and it will 
become exceedingly hard, but may be easily dissolved over a fire, as glue, and will 
join wood perfectly. This glue will resist fire and water. 

Cheap Water-Proof Glue. — A glue that will resist water to a considerable 
defree is made by dissolving common glue in skimmed milk. Fine levigated chalk 
added to the common solution of glue in water makes an addition which strengthens 
it and renders it suitable for sign-boards and things which must stand the weather. 



312 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Paste Tliat Will Keep. — Dissolve a tecaspoonful of alum in a quart of water. 

When cold, stir in as much flour as will give it the consistency of thick cream, being 
particular to beat up all the lumps ; stir in as much powdered resin as will lie on a 
dime, and throw in a half dozen cloves to give it a pleasant odor. Have on the fire a 
tcacupful of boiling water, pour the flour mixture into it, stirring well at the time. 
In a very few minutes it will be of the consistency of mush. Pour it into an earthen 
or china vessel; let it cool; lay a cover on, and put in a cool place. When needed 
for use, take out a portion and soften it with warm water. Paste thus made will last. 
It is better than gum, as it does not gloss the paper, and can be written on. — Amanda 
D. I., Madison, Wis. 

XXVII. The Dyer's Art. 

The time is long sinc5 past when spinning and weaving constitute an important 
part of rural economy. It will no longer pay even to dye old fabrics at home, 
except in those sections far removed from dyer's establishments. It will not pay at 
all, except for the most common fabrics Eag carpets, however, have not gone out of 
fashion, and they never should. If tastefully made, they are pretty, and for kitchen 
and general family wear, certainly lasting. The recipes givep by contributors fairly 
include all the regular colors, and will show that this department of rural art is still 
extensively practiced, for many still keep up the knowledge of the art as much 
because it amuses them as for any other reason. 

XXVIII. Coloring Dress and Other Fabrics. 

As to the stability of dyes imparted to silks, damasks and fabrics, used in fur- 
nishing, an eminent French chemist has found that the blue colors produced by 
indigo are stable; Prussian blue resists moderately the action of air and light, but not 
soap; scarlet and carmines, produced by cochineal and lac-dye, are last; the most 
stable colors on silk are produced by weld 

Mordants. — In colorings it is sometimes necessary to employ mordants, or 
substances to " fix " color; they may even change a color; so, by mixing mordants, 
different shades are produced. But it will not be necessary to enter into this subject 
here. Where mordants are necessary, they will be given in the simple recipes. In rela- 
tion to fixing colors generally, and this applies to washing, the following will be 
useful : 

Take a large double handful of bran, put it in a saucepan and set it over the 
fire, allowing it to boil thoroughly in a quart of water. When thoroughly boiled, 
strain the bran, and throw the water into that in which you are about washing your 
lawn or chintz dress. Let the dress soak for an hour or so in it before washing. 
Instead of starch use a weak solution of glue-water, and iron on the wrong side. 

XXIX. Coloring— Yello-w, Blue and Green. 

Yellow. — Dissolve one-half pound sugar of lead in hot water; dissolve one- 
fourth pound bichromate of potash in a vessel of wood, in cold water. Dip the 



CONTRIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 313 

goods first in the load-watcv, then in tlic potash, tlicn ahcrnate until the color suits. 
This quantity answers for five pounds of goods. 

Blue. — Dissolve one-fourth pound copperas in soft water, sufficient to color five 
pounds of goods ; put in the goods and let theui remain fifteen minutes ; then take 
them out. Take clean soft water and dissolve two ounces prussiate of potash. Put 
in the goods when it is milk-warm. Let them remain in this fifteen minutes ; then 
take out the goods, and add one ounce of oil of vitriol to the potash dye when it is 
only milk-warm; put in your goods again; boil for deep blue, and take out before 
boiling for lighter shades. 

Green. — Take the yellow dyed by the above recipe, and dye by the recipe 
given for dyeing blue, and you will have a beautiful green. — N. B., Elm Grove, Mich. 

Coloring Cotton. — To four pounds of rags take one and one-half ounces oxalic 
acid, two ounces of Prussian blue; let each soak over night in one quart of rain- 
water, then put together in as much warm rain-water as you want to color with. Put 
in the rags and let them be in twenty minutes. Wring out and dip in the following 
yellow dye. 

Take six ounces of sugar of lead, four and a half ounces of bichromate of pot- 
ash; dissolve in a pint of hot rain-water. Take as much hot rain-water as you want 
to color with. Dip first in the lead, then in the potash several times. Rinse in cold 
rain-water. Use tin or copper — no simmering is needed. The first makes a blue, the 
last a beautiful yellow, and both a durable green. — Mrs. Lizzie B., Rochester, la. 

A Good Yellow. — Take bichromate of potash, one pound to a pailful of water; 
for blue, two boxes bluing. Color yellow first, then dip the goods, either cotton or 
woolen, into the blue dye, and you have a deep durable green. Scald thoroughly. — 
A. J. T., Algona, la 

Coloring Cotton Red. — Take two pounds of Nicaragua, or red wood, four 
ounces solution of tin. Boil the wood for an hour or more, turn off the dj^e into a tub 
or pail. Then add the tin, and put in your cotton. Let it stand five minutes, and 
you will have a nice red. — Mrs. H., Fort Atkinson, Wis. 

Or this. — For four pounds of goods, take one pound of redwood. Steep in 
cold water over night, then let it come to a boil. Skim out the chijjs; wring out the 
the goods in the dye, then add suflicient muriate of tin to set the color; return the 
goods to the dye, let them remain until colored deep enough. Color in brass or tin. 
— Eliza, Atchison, Kan. 

Coloring Cotton Green. — Dissolve six ounces of sugar of lead in hot water, 
four ounces bichromate potassa in warm water; dip the cloth in the sugar of lead, 
wrino- out, then dip in the potassa. Dip three or four times, till a bright yellow is 
obtained. When the cloth is dry, dissolve four ounces Prussian blue, four ounces 
oxalic acid. Dissolve separately in warm water; then turn together, and dip your 
cloth in the blue dye, and you will have a splendid green. 

Prussian blue and oxalic acid make a beautiful blue for cotton. Dip three or 
four times for a deep shade. Rinse in salt-water. — Mrs. D. B., Northfield, IMimi. 
53 



314 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Or this. For five pounds of goods dissolve nine ounces sugar of lead in four 

o-allons rain-water. Dissolve in another vessel six ounces bichromate potash in four 
o-allons of rain-water. First, dj'e your goods blue (if you wish a dark green, you must 
have a dark blue— if light green, a light blue). Dip the goods first in the lead-water, 
then in the potash-Avater, and then again into the lead; wring out dry, and afterward 
rinse in cold water.— Mrs. E. M., Grand Mound, Iowa. 

XXX. Scarlet and Pink. 

Scarlet for Woollen Goods. — To each pound of goods take one ounce of pul- 
verized cochineal, one-half ounce of cream-of-tartar, two ounces of muriate of tin. 
Use soft water. Color in tin or copper. Let the water get a little warm before 
putting the dye-stuff in. Stir well, so that all is dissolved, then put in the goods and 
let them come to a boiling heat and simmer until the right shade is obtained. A 
beautiful rose color can be made by taking out when at that shade. It will not fade 
by washing or wearing, but grow darker as all other scarlets do. This will not do for 
cotton or silk. — Nettie, Paris, Kentucky. 

Pink. — Take three parts of cream-of-tartar and one of cochineal, nicely rubbed 
together; tie a teaspoonful in a mustard bag. Put this with a quart of boiling water; 
dip in the articles to be colored,, previously cleaned and dipped in alum water; if 
wished stiff, put in a little gum arable. — C, Mansfield, Ohio. 

XXXI. Coloring-— Black, Brown and Slate. 

Black. — Take one pound of extract of logwood. Put it in a kettle and fill it 
half-full of water. Dissolve it the day before it is wanted, and pour half of it in a 
kettle of water. Put in your yarn and boil half an hour. Have ready a quarter of 
a pound of copperas dissolved in another kettle and take out your yarn and pour in 
half your copperas w'ater again. Put in your yarn. Let it remain five minutes. 
You will then have a nice black. When this is done, you can put in all of the rest of 
your dye and throw in all your old black and gray rags and color them over. You 
will thus have your rags in shape to take to the weaver's, and have a nice carpet. — 
Mrs. J. N., Eockford, Illinois. 

Brown. — For nine pounds of goods take one-half pound japonica, two ounces 
blue vitriol, one ounce bichromate of potash. Dissolve the japonica in enough soft 
water to cover the goods, and let them stay in all night. In the morning make a solu- 
tion of the vitriol and potash ; wring the goods out of the other dye and let them 
stand in this half an hour. The goods should simmer in both dyes. For light brown 
use a brass, and for a dark, a copper kettle, to make the dyes in. This is a good 
recipe for coloring dress goods, as well as carpet rags. — Nellie B. 

Brown With Catechu. — Take one pound of catechu extract and one-half 
ounce of vitriol ; dissolve in rain water ; the catechu put in water enough to wet your 
goods. Color in an iron kettle. Then put in your vitriol. Wet your goods in soap- 
suds before putting in the dye. This is a fast color. — Blue Grass Brunette, Ky. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TKOM FKIENUS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. ^15 

Slate Color. — Boil yellow oak bark in an iron kettle until the strength is extracted. 
Take out the bark, then add a very little copperas and you have a pretty color.— M. 
A. v., Nashville, Tenn. 

XXXII. Walnut Coloring-Black Walnut. 

With Walnut Barks.— Walnut bark will color any shade from a light tan to 
coal-black. Color the wool before carding as follows : Peel the bark from the body 
of the tree — the bark of the root is the best. Put it iato a barrel, a layer of the bark 
and wool alternately, till you till the barrel; then till up the barrel with rainwater. 
Lay on the top heavy weights. Let it stand in the sun or some warm place till you 
get the shade required. 

With Butternut Bark. — Another way to color yarn, cloth or carpet rags, is 
to boil a large iron kettlef ul of butternut-bark for four hours ; take out the bark, put 
in a spoonful of copperas. If you wish a black put in more copperas or a little 
blue vitriol — too much vitriol rots the goods. Then while the dye is boiling, put in 
the goods and keep stirring and once every few minutes lift the goods with a stick 
into the air, then put them under. And so on keep watching and moving them till 
you get the shade required. If left folded or packed too tight they will spot. — Sauah 
A. B., Shellsburg, Iowa. 

Nearly Black. — Put the bark in an iron kettle, and boil until the strength is all 
out; then skim out, and add about one teaspoonful of copperas to set the color, air- 
ing the goods while boiling. If you wish to color woollens, omit the copperas. — H. 
L. S., Bainbridge, Mich. 

Butternut and Black- Walnut.— Peel the bark when the sap is up; put in a 
kettle, cover with water and let stand until it sours; then boil an hour, throw out the 
bark and put in the yarn, (woollen wet in soapsuds) cover it over with the bark and 
weight it down in the dye. Let stand for a day, then wring it and hang it out in the 
air for half a day. If it is not dark enough re-hcat the dye, put back the yarn and 
let it stand as long again. It will be a nice brown that won't fade with washing. 
Black walnut colors the darkest. I believe it would color black by having the dye 
very strong and airing it often. — C. L., Adair, Mich. 

Hickory-Bark Color. — Hickory bark will color a beautiful bright yellow, that 
will not fade by use. It will color cotton and avooI. Have the bark shaved off or 
hewed off, and chopped in small pieces, and put in a brass kettle or tin boiler, with 
soft-water enoufh to cover the bark, and boil until the strength is out ; then skim out 
the chips and put in alum. Have it pounded pretty tine. For a pailful of dye I 
should put in two good handfuls, and wet the goods in warm water so there will be no 
dry spots on them ; wring them as dry as you can, shake them out and put them into 
the dye. Have a stick at hand to push them down and stir them immediately, so 
they can have a chance all over alike. If the color is not deep and bright enough, 
raise the foods out of the dye, lay them across a stick over the kettle, and put in 
another handful of alum. Stir it well and dip again. It will want to be kept in the 



316 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

dye and over the fire to a scalding lieat about an liour, but keep stirring and airing, so 

thiey will not spot. 

XXXIII. Coloring Carpet Rags. 

Drab, Green, etc. — S. P., Lapeer City, Mich., who not only colors, but weaves 
her own carpets, gives the following: To color drab: Save your cold tea and put a 
little copiDeras in it. Boil it up and skim it, and then put in your goods and let them 
remain a short time. 

To color cotton green: First color blue, and then put them in a yellow dye. 

To color blue : For four pounds one ounce prussiatc potash, one ounce copperas, 
one ounce of alum. Dissolve the alum and copperas in water enough to wet the 
goods. Then jiut them in the potash, and let them remain ten minutes ; then put in 
the copperas and alum. Let the dye be hot. 

To color 3'ellow : Take eight ounces sugar of lead, four ounces bichromate potash. 
Dissolve the sugar of lead in hot water, in a jar. Dip the goods in the sugar of lead 
first, and then in the potash, alternately, till j^ou have the color desired. This will 
color six pounds. 

Yellow and Blue.^For each pound of cotton rags, take one ounce of sugar of 
lead, dissolve in warm water, put in a bi'ass or copper kettle. Heat it to a scalding 
heat and put in the rags. Let them remain in half an hour; then dissolve one ounce 
of bichromate potash in warm water in a wooden dish. Take the rags out, dip in the 
potash, wring out and air. Eepeat until you use the dye up. You will have a beau- 
tiful yellow. Be sure and use soft water. 

To color blue: to five pounds of cotton rags take five ounces prussiate of potash, 
five ounces copperas and two ounces oil vitrol. Take the copperas and potash, put in 
a copper or brass vessel, heat it till well dissolved. Put in the rags, and scald from 
eleven to thirty minutes. Take out and cool. Add oil vitrol, then dip and take out. 
Hang in the shade. You can take more white rags and make a pale blue by dippino' 
in after this. Put your yellow rags in this same blue dye, and you will have a nice 
green. Hold some in your hand and put in the dye in places, and it will be clouded 
yellow and green. This must be in soft water, also. Then hang in the shade, and 
when dry, rinse in warm water. — Mes. J. N., Seward, 111. 

Green. — For five pounds of white cotton rags reeled in skeins, I take one pail 
of the inner bark of yellow oak, cut in fine chips, and boil it two hours in three pails 
of soft water, in cither tin, brass or copper. Then skim out the bark and add one- 
fourth of an ounce of alum. While the dye is boiling, take three ounces of Prussian 
blue, tie it up in a strong cotton rag, and rub it in enough soft water to thoroughly 
wet the rags; squeeze and turn them in the blueing nearly half an hour. Wring 
them out and take as many as you can handle at one time and put them in the hot 
dye, stir them around a few seconds and take them out ; then put in more until you 
have them all green. Bo not leave them in the dye a minute for it will soak out the 
blue. The rags ma}- neo.l to be dipped more than once. This color will not fade. 
If light green is desired, use less blue. — Mi;s. A, G., Ontario, Ind. 



CONTRIBUTIONS FROM FRIENDS ON HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 



317 



Green and Red. — To color carpet-rags green: to five pounds of cotton cloth, 
take one pound of fustic and four ounces of chip logwood ; soak in a brass kettle 
over night; heat the dye, then add two ounces of blue vitriol; wet the cloth in suds. 
When the dye is boiling hot put in the cloth. 

For coloring red, for five pounds of goods, take one pound of redwood, steep 
in cold water over niglit, then let it come to a boil, skim out the chips, wring out the 
goods in the dye, then add suiScient nuariate of tin to set the color; return the goods 
to the dye, let them remain until nearly colored deep enough; color in brass or tin. — 
Ella T. B., Groveport, O. 

Blue and Yellow. — I first color blue, then yellow. Take one ounce prussiate 
of potash, one tablespoon of copperas, one ounce oil of vitriol. Bring to a boil. 
Then put in the goods for twenty minutes, skimming often. This is sufficient for 
five pounds. 

To color yellow, dissolve one and a half pounds sugar of lead in hot water, 
one and a half ounces bichromate of potash, dissolved in a vessel of wood in cold 
water. Dip first in lead water, then in the potash, and alternate until the color suits. 
—Mrs. H. a. B., Pompeii, Mich. 



L^a^ 




nriTTAflH n-p FIVE ROOMS ON GROUND AND TWO IN ATTIC. — COST, $700. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

MENU FOR ONE WEEK DURING THE FOUR 
SEASONS OF THE YEAR. 

SPRING. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast . Strawberries and cream, broiled breakfast bacon, dry toast, 

coffee. 
Luncheon. Chicken quenelles breaded, shirred eggs, orange jam, tea. 
Dinner. Cream of potato soup, roast leg of lamb, mint sauce, mashed 

potatoes, green peas, fruit blanc mange, coffee. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast . Orange marmalade, bacon and eggs, hot biscuits, coffee. 
Lujicheon. Minced veal on toast, potato salad, English currant loaf, 

apple sauce, tea. 
Dijuier. Gumbo soup, roast spareribs, mashed potatoes, cabbage, corn 

fritters, frosted lemon pudding, coffee. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. Oranges, Quaker oats and cream, boiled eggs, toast, coffee. 

L-nnelieon. Scalloped shad roe, watercress, cottage cheese, Spanish short- 
cake, peach souffle, tea. 

Dinner. Mock turtle soup, veal pot pie, spinach a la creme, beans, 
cucumber pickles, chocolate pie, coffee. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakjasf. Fruit salad, cracked wheat and cream, rice omelet, griddle 

cakes and syrup, toast, coffee. 
Lnnclicon. Steamed macaroni, tomiato sauce, stewed apples, bread and 

butter sandwiches, tea. 
Dinner. Cream of tomato, roast beef au jus, baked potatoes, radishes, 

rhubarb fritters, coffee. 

318 



MENUS 319 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. Prunes, wheatall, sugar and cream, eggs on zwieback, potato 
sticks, coffee. 

Luncheon. Chicken omelet au gratin, steamed brown bread, stewed rhu- 
barb, ginger cakes, cocoa. 

Diiuicr. Spring vegetable soup, boiled leg of mutton, egg sauce, mashed 
potatoes, peas, young onions, Genoese cream, coffee. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. Rhubarb sauce, rice with cream, poached eggs on toast, coffee. 
LjincJicon. Saratoga chips, baked beans, Boston brown bread, ginger 

cakes, tea. 
Dinner. Planked shad, flaked potatoes, fried egg plant, lettuce and cress 

salad, caramel custard, coffee. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. Stewed dry apricots, hominy with cream, broiled ham, Johnny- 
cake, coffee. 

Luncheon. Chicken croquettes, fresh bread and butter, cream puffs, pre- 
served peaches, chocolate. 

Dinner. Julienne soup, crackers, roast beef heart, currant jelly, turnips, 
mashed potatoes, chocolate cake, coffee. 

SUMMER. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. Red raspberries, salt mackerel, scrambled eggs, French fried 

potatoes, graham biscuits and coffee. 
Lunclicon. Broiled egg plant, sliced tomatoes, Vienna rolls, honey cake, 

iced tea. 
Dinner. Green pea soup, boiled leg of lamb and mint sauce, green peas, 

new potatoes, pineapple sponge with custard, claret, cafe et noir. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. Strawberries on stem, wheat flakes, liver and bacon, fried 

potatoes, raised corn bread, coffee. 
Luncheon. Salmon croquettes, lettuce sandwiches, tapioca cream, cocoa. 
Dinner. Bouillon, roast veal with gravy, baked potatoes, asparagus, 

frozen custard, coffee. 



3-^0 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. Bananas, cracked wheat and sugar and cream, sweetbreads 

on toasl, radishes, cr;iHers, coffee. 
Lunclicon. Scotch e^gs, bread and butter, fruit salad, cookies, chocolate, 
Dinnci . Tomato ^oup, bh-ench mutton chops breaded, mashed potatoes 

spinach with egg, pineapple sherbet, angels' food, coffee. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. Strawberries and cream, codfish balls, Boston brown bread, 

toast and coffee. 
Lurichcon. Cold tongue, rhubarb jelly, stuffed eggs, beaten biscuit, iced 

tea. 
Diimer. Cream of carrot soup, breast of mutton and tomato, string 

beans, parsley sauce, potatoes, iced pineapple, after-dinner coffee. 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast. Stewed cherries, rice with sugar and cream, broiled ham, 

radishes, breakfast rolls, coffee. 
Litnelicon. Brown bread and butter, egg salad, strawberry shortcake, 

cocoa. 
Dinner. Cream of asparagus soup, fried spring chicken, new potatoes 

creamed, sliced cucumbers, green peas, coffee, frozen pineapple 

custard, 

FRIDAY. 

Breakjast. Strawberries, poached eggs on toast, broiled bacon, coffee. 
LiiiicJieon. Sliced veal rice croquettes, radishes, entire wheat buns, tea. 
Diiuicr. Savory soup, chicken stew, potato puff, cucumbers, sago cream 
and strawberry sauce, coffee. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. Compote of gooseberries, souffle of fish, Yankee corn bread, 
coffee. 

Lvncheon. Salad of calves' brains, bread and butter, green onions, cook- 
ies, iced tea. 

Dinner. Mock oyster soup, chicken fricassee, mashed potatoes, creamed 
peas, strawberries and cream, coffee. 



^^i MENUS 

AUTUMN. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. Shredded wheat, ham omelet, fried new potatoes; stewed 
plums, toast and coffee. 

Luncheon, Potato salad with cold fish, thin bread and butter, hot ginger- 
bread, buttermilk. 

Dinner. Giblet soup, broiled beefsteak, mashed potatoes, sliced toma- 
toes, peach dumpling, coffee. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. Iced cantaloupe, poached eggs on toast, hashed brown pota- 
toes, breakfast rolls and coffee. 

Luncheon. Baked bean sandwiches, tomatoes with French dressing, white 
loaf cake, iced tea. 

Dinner. Rice and tomato soup, boiled black bass, white sauce, potato 
balls, tomato salad, apple charlotte, coffee. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. Grapes, rolled oats, hashed veal with poached eggs, graham 

muffins, coffee. 
Luncheon. Codfish salad, bread and butter, baked bananas, almond cake, 

cocoa. 
Dinner. Veal broth, braised lamb, boiled potatoes, succotash, sliced 

tomatoes, steamed blueberry pudding, coffee. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. Baked apples, sugar and cream, crisped bacon, potato fritters, 

coffeebread, coffee. 
Lttncheon. Welsh rarebit, cucumber salad with French dressing, Vienna 

cakes, tea. 
Dinner. Cream of celery soup, mutton chops, mashed potatoes, green 

corn, entire wheat bread, sliced peaches, coffee. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. Iced melon, chipped beef, toast, coffee. 

Luncheon. Boston brown hash, brown bread and butter, green grape 

jelly, tea. 
Dinner. Green pea soup, roast lamb and mint sauce, stuffed tomatoes, 

new potatoes roasted, lima beans, fruit and coffee. 



322 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. Cantaloupe, baked eggs, bacon, muffins and coffee. 
Ltmcheon. Lobster a la Newburg, hot rolls, warm gingerbread, apple 

sauce, hot or iced tea. 
Dinner. Tomato soup, broiled bluefish, sliced tomatoes, mashed potatoes, 

celery salad, stewed pears, wafers and coffee. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. Grapes, sweetbreads and tomatoes, graham biscuits, baked 

potatoes and coffee. 
Luncheo-)!. Cold tongue, buttered bread, plum shortcake and cocoa. 
Dinner. Oxtail soup, roast duck, red cabbage, boiled potatoes, lettuce 

salad, chocolate pudding, coffee. 

WINTER. 

SUNDAY. 

B7'eakfast. Oatmeal with cream, Hamburg steak, baked potatoes, cinna- 
mon rolls, coffee. 

Ltmcheon. Creamed shrimps on toast, brown bread, brandied peaches 
and coffee. 

Dinner. Split pea soup, fried chicken with rice, flaked potatoes, celery 
salad, baked sweet potatoes, pumpkin pie, coffee 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast . Baked apples with cream, buttered toast, liver and bacon, 

corn muffins and coffee. 
Luncheon. Escalloped oysters, steamed brown bread, waffles with maple 

syrup and Russian tea. 
Dinner. Cream of barley soup, beefsteak pie, spinach, mashed potatoes, 

celery and nut salad, fruit pudding, coffee. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. Oranges, salt codfish, puree of potatoes, hot rolls, corncake 

and coffee. 
Ltmcheon. Oyster croquettes, celery, baked potatoes, brown bread and 

butter, apple dumpling and cocoa. 
Dinner. Cream of potato soup, fricassee of lamb and sweetbreads, mashed 

potatoes, cold slaw, Saratoga wafers, prune whip and coffee. 



MENUS 323 



WEDNESDAY. 



Breakfast. Baked apples, cream and sugar, pork tenderloins, potato pan- 
cakes, toast and coffee. 

LruicJieon. Cold veal loaf, home-made rye bread and butter, apple sauce, 
chocolate. 

Dinner. Vegetable soup, broiled venison steak, currant jelly, boiled 
potatoes, succotash, olives, cream of rice pudding, coffee. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. Sliced oranges and apples, codfish balls, cream potatoes, 
velvet muffins and coffee. 

Ljinchcon. Hominy croquettes, bread and butter, fig sandwiches, ginger- 
bread and tea. 

Dinner. Corn soup, roast turkey and cranberry sauce, brown potatoes, 
turnips, celery, nesselrode pudding, coffee. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. Delaware grapes, cream of wheat, bacon and eggs, French 

fried potatoes, doughnuts and coffee. 
Lutichcon. Hot bouillon, fried cornmeal mush, chicken croquettes, 

brown bread and butter, plain cake and apple jelly, coffee. 
Dinner. Tomato soup, baked fish with egg sauce, mashed potatoes, 

stewed tomatoes, bread and butter, cranberry shortcake, coffee. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. Baked apples, oatmeal porridge, pork chops, fried mush, 

muffins and coffee. 
Luncheon. Oyster patties, raisin bread, stewed apricots and chocolate. 
Dimier. Cream of celery soup, chicken pie, baked potatoes, lima beans, 

spiced apple pickles, prune pie, coffee. 

NEW YEAR'S DAY. 

Breakfast. Oranges, oatmeal with cream, Johnnycake, French toast 

and coffee. 
Dinner. Clear soup and bread sticks, baked whitefish, creamed oyster 
sauce, roast venison and currant jelly sauce, baked potatoes, loast 
turkey with cranberry raisin jelly, watercress salad, French dressing, 



324 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 

cheese sticks and celery, iced pudding, chestnuts, raisins, dates, figs, 
nuts, candy, Mumm's Extra Dry, cafe et noir. 
New Year's Lzuicheon. Cold sliced venison, bread and butter, sponge 
cake, oranges and tea. 

FOURTH OF JULY. 

In getting up a special menu card for the glorious Fourth, if you are 
not able to buy some fancy ones, have them decorated by hand with flags 
and as much red, white and blue as good taste would warrant. 

Breakfast. Red and white currants, sliced tomatoes iced, fried perch, 

Martha Washington muffins, coffee. 
Limchco)i. Sardine sandwiches, French pickles, salad of '76, floating 

island, red raspberries, iced tea. 
Dinner. Consomme a la Independence, roast lamb and mint sauce, new 

potatoes, stuffed eggplant, combination salad, French dressing, red 

raspberry shortcake, coffee. 

MENU FOR THANKSGIVING. 

Breakfast. Stewed apricots, cream of wheat, hash brown potatoes, muffins 
and coffee. 

Dinner. Cream of tomato soup, broiled whitefish, cream sauce, roast 
turkey stuffed with oysters, cranberries, olives, mashed white pota- 
toes, Hubbard squash, raisin, nut and apple salad, French dressing, 
mince pie, pumpkin pie, Indian steamed pudding with maple hard 
sauce and whipped cream, nuts, coffee, ice cream. 

Luncheon. Sliced turkey, bread and butter, charlotte russe and cafe 
et noir 

MENU FOR CHRISTMAS. 

Breakfast. Grape nuts and cream, baked apple, ham omelet, velvet 
muffins, coffee. 

Dinner. Blue points, crackers, tomato soup, French tenderloins, roast 
turkey, cranberry sauce, giblet gravy, mashed potatoes, pineapple 
sherbet, white asparagus salad mayonnaise, spaghetti au gratin, fruit 
cake, white grapes, nuts, dates, St. Julien claret, cafe et noir. 

Late LnncJicon. Sliced turkey, mustard sauce, celery and nut sandwiches, 
chocolate, fruit. 



PRACTICAL, COMMON SENSE HOME COOKING. 



KITCHEN ECONOMY AND KITCHEN AKT. 

OUR EVERY-DAY EATING AND DRINKING. 

RECIPES FOR ALL STYLES OF COOKING. 

EXCELLENT DISHES CHEAPLY MADE. 

ECONOMY OF A VARIED DIET. 



jEemoranlium 



PRACTICAL, COMMON SENSE HOME COOKING. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
THE LARDER AND KITCHEN. 



I. THE MEAT-FiOOM. II. HANGING, TESTING ASD PKESERVIN'G PORK, ETC. III. SIUTTON AND 

LAJIB. IV. CALVES AND THEIR EDIBLE PARTS V IlEEF ON THE FARM. VI. THE KITCHEN. 

VII. THE FLOOR, \V-VLLS AND FURNITURE. VIII. CLEANLINESS INDISPENSjUSLE. IX. KITCHEN 

UTENSILS. X. CHEMISTRY OF THE KITCHEN". XI. THE CO.MPONENT P.VRTS OF JILAT. XII. 

A F.i.MOUS COOK ON BOILING. XIII. BOILED AND STEWED DISHES. XIV. HOW TO STEW. 

I. The Meat-Room. 



lYlXHE larder is the place whore meat and other food are kept. On the farm it is 
g|*L.5 esiDceially necessary that a phiec be provided where fresh meat may remain 
'|-p' sweet, to ensure a regular siqiply, and tiuis avoid a diet of salt meat in summer. 
There are pigs, sheep, lambs and calves available, and even the quarters of a 
fat heifer may be used on tiie lai'ger farms. Or the meat, not required, may be 
economically distributed among neighbors not so well situated. It is onl}^ a question 
of ice and a suitable room. The illustrations in this chapter will show, not only 

the dressed meat hung, but also, Ijy figures, the manner of cutting it uj). Another 
advantage of such a meat-room is that the meat placed in it, after killing, ripens 
slowly without tainting, and is both more tender and more nutritious. 

II. Hanging, Testing and Preserving Pork, etc. 

Meat, after being killed and somewhat cooled, may be hung up whole, in quar- 
ters, or cut as shown in the diagram of Hog Figured for Cutting. In which of these 
ways it shall be hung will depend entirely upon the space in the cooling-house. Pork 
should be firm and white as to its fat; the lean flesh light in color and fine in grain ; 
the skin fine and smooth. The fat must be without kernels, since these indicate that 
the pig may be "measly." If the flesh is clammy to the touch, it is bad. 

Cooling. — Pork is at its best when it has become fully cold. All other animal 
meats of the farm require longer hanging to reduce the fiber, and this is especially 
true of game. Fowls require to be kept longer than pork, but not so long as 
mutton; veal and lamb coming next to pork in the shortness of time they should be 
hung before cooking. Next come fo\^'Is and next beef. Mutton and venison ripen, 
for cooking, more slowly than other meat. 

[327] 



328 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



"Ripe" Meat. — No meat should be allowed to taint in the remotest degree 
before being cooked. The term " ripe " is used to denote that stage when the meat 
acquires tenderness, and before any change toward taint has been acquired. 

Cutting up a Hog. — The head should be taken off at the dotted line behind 
the ears as shown in the diagram. The curve, 1-2, is the line of cutting to get a 
shoulder of pork; 3, is the belly or bacon piece; 4, is the neck and long ribs or 
fore-loin; 5, the sirloin, called the hind-loin in pork; 6, is the ham. The other side 




HOG FIGURED FOE CUTTING. 



of the hog will give corresponding pieces. The roasting pieces of fresh pork are the 
spare-ribs, loin and leg. The other pieces are salted. The hind and fore-legs are 
made into hams and shoulders for smoking, and the side and flitches (belly) into 
bacon. 

Good Bacon — Good bacon has a thin rind, firm, pinkish fat when cured, and 
firm lean, adhering to the bone. Eusty bacon has yellowish streaks in it. If a clean 
thin blade or a skewer stuck into a ham or shoulder of cured smoked meat smells 
clean and without taint, when withdrawn, the meat is good, for the least taint will 
immediately be evident to the nostril. 



THE LARDER AND KITCHEN. 



329 



III. Mutton and Lamb. 

Boiled mutton and caper sauce (the garden nasturtium makes a good substitute 
for the caper), roast mutton and Worcestershire sauce, himb and mint sauce, and 
lamb with green peas, are dishes good enough for anybody, and any farmer may have 
them. 

When Mutton is Best. — A fat wether makes the best mutton, and the nmtton 
is better if the animal is over three years of age when killed, than if younger. It 




DRESSED CARCASS OF IMUTTON. 

should be dark and fat. A fat, grass-fed mutton of five years old may be had on the 
farm It is seldom found at the butcher's. Those who do not know mutton ask for 
yearling mutton. This is neither mutton nor lamb. 

Cutting up a Sheep. — The saddle of mutton is the best part; the haunch next. 
The saddle comprises the two loins undivided ; the leg and loin, separated, are the 
next best pieces. Chops and cutlets are cut from the loin ; the cutlets from the thick 
end ; they are also taken from the best end of the neck and from the leg, though 
those from the leg really should be called steaks The leg is often salted like a ham 



330 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



of pork, and sometimes smoked ; the breast is sometimes pickled and then boiled. 
The scrag is considered good stewed with rice. In the diagram of Dressed Carcass 
of Mutton, 1 is the leg, 2 the loin, 3 the ribs, 4 and 5 the neck, 6 the shoulder, 7 
the breast. 1 and 2 together constitute the hind-c]uarter, and 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, the 
fore-quarter. 

Lamb. — A lamb should be young — six weeks to ten weeks old — the flesh of a 
pale red, and, of course, fat; a lean lamb is not worth killing. In selecting lambs, 
many will be found under-sized, but fat. They are the ones for the pot. All animals 
should be carefully bled in killing, and small animals hung up before their throats are 
cut. This is easy enough with lambs and sheep. All parts of the lamb may be 
roasted, but the thin and flank portions are best stewed. 




DBESSED LAirB. 

Cutting Up a Lamb.— The diagram of Dressed Lamb shows the several parts 
for cutting: 1, the log; 2, the loin; 3, the shoulder; 4, the breast; 5, the ribs; 3, 4, 
5, the fore-quarter; 1 and 2, hind-quarter. Lamb steaks are called chops and cutlets, 
and are taken from the same parts as in mutton. 

IV. Calves and their Edible Parts. 
Veal should be young, say from six to eight weeks old; the flesh pale, dry and 
fine in grain. Veal makes the richest soup, and is much used for stock for that and 



THE LARDER AND KITCHEN. 



331 



gravies. All parts of the dressed animal may be used. The head is a delicacy. The 
feet make a firm jelly, and are good boiled or stewed. The loin, fillet and shoulder, 
are the usual roasting joints. The breast is also sometimes roasted, but is better 
stewed. 

Cutting Up Veal. — The cutlets are taken from the loin and occasionally from 
the hind leg. In the diagram of Carcass of Veal: 1, is the loin; 2, rump end of 




CARCASS or VEAL. 

loin; 3, leg or round ; 4, hock; 5, fore-leg; 6, chine; 7, neck; 8, shoulder; 9, ribs; 
10, breast or brisket; 11, bead. 

V. Beef on the Farm. 

Whether the farmer can afford to kill a heifer or a steer for summer meat will 
depend upon the size of the family, the number of hands employed, the facilities for 
preserving the meat, or those for selling or exchanging with neighbors. In the winter 
there is no reason why the family should not be liberally supplied, both on the score 
of taste and economy. Beef is the favorite meat, and it is economy to kill it at 



332 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



home rather than bu}' it cut ready for cooking, unless the butcher can serve the family 
every day. In the latter case it may be economy to sell the steer or heifer and buy 
back such meat as is wanted. 

Cutting up an Ox. — In the diagram of Dressed Ox, 1 is the sirloin; 2, top, 
aitch or edge-bone as it is indifferently called; 3, rump; 4, round or buttock; 5, 
mouse or lower buttock ; 6, veiny piece; 7, thick flank: 8, thin flank; 9, leg; 10, 
fore-rib (containing five ribs); 11, middle-rib (containing four ribs); 12, chuck-rib 




DEESSED OX. 



(containing three ribs); 13, shoulder, or leg of mutton piece; 14, brisket; 15, 
clod; 16, sticking piece or blood piece; 17, shin; 18, cheeks or head. 

Choice Parts. — The ribs and sirloin are the best for roasting (the middle rib 
piece, 11, is the best of all). The best steaks come from the chump end of the sir- 
loin, next to 2 ; it has a good tender-loin or fillet. The rump is the next best roasting 
piece, regarded bj^ many epicures as the most choice. The soup pieces are the more 
bony parts, as 9, 16, 17, etc; 6, 7, 8, 13, 14 and 15 are corning pieces; 13 and 14, 
containing the brisket and the plates, are the best of these. 



THE LARDER AND KITCHEN. 



333 



VI. The Kitchen. 

The appointments should bo as i)i'ifect as possible, and all that may save labor 
provided. The best stove or range and tixturcs should be put in, and closets and 
pantries made with drawers for culinary articles; sinks with proper waste pipes and 
fixtures; towel racks, hooks and the many little things that go to hghten labor and 
make cooking a pleasure rather than a drudgery. 

"Why should the wife or daughter, who stands over the heated stove, be made to 
run perhaps two or three hundred feet for fuel when a very little time of the men in 
the morning and evening might supply the wood or coal box? Why should the cook 
ever be obliged to use green wood when proper forethought would supply fuel 
already seasoned? 

Some ignorant people think that green wood makes a hotter fire than dry wood. 
It does nothing of the kind. It takes longer to burn, of course, and is more vexa- 
tious in every way. 




TOWEL RACK. 





TOWEL ROLLER. _ 

CLOTHES BAJIS. 

VII. The Floor, Walls and Furniture. 

The floor of the kitchen, unless covered with an oil-cloth, should be of ash, 
thorouo-hly seasoned, of full inch-thick stuff. The plank not more than four inches 
wide beino- ton^ued, grooved, well driven together and "blind nailed." 

The walls and ceiling, when not wainscotted, should be kalsomined, or painted 
and varnished so they can be easily washed. They may be papered, but if so, after 
the paper is thoroughly dry it should have two or three coats of varnish so that the 
walls may be washed as often as necessary. 

The furniture should be solid and simple; the table, or tables, provided with 



334 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



drawers; the chairs wood-bottomed or cane-seated. The stove must be heavy to be 

lasting, with plenty of oven room, find with the addition of a warm oven to be most 

economical. 

VIII. Cleanliness Indispensable. 

In the kitchen absolute cleanliness is indispensable. It is virtue everywhere. Here 
it is a necessity. It is also economical, for however dirty a kitchen, cleaning time 
must come, and it is easier and more healthful to clean often than seldom. Every 
utensil should be thoroughly cleaned and dried each time it is used, and all bright sur- 
faces carefully polished. We do not advise that the stove be blackened every day; a 
clean, unblacked stove in a clean kitchen is pleasant to look upon. 

IX. Kitchen Utensils. 

Avoid inventions that contain in one and the same implement everything from a 
cover-lifter to a meat-broiler. We give a very moderate list of utensils for a well- 





EEFEIGERATOE. 



MEAT-OUTTEE. 



equipped kitchen; it may be taken from or added to, as occasion requires: One soup- 
pot ; two vegetable-pots ; one stew-kettle ; one teakettle ; one coffeepot ; two enam- 
eled sauce-pans ; two enameled stew-pans ; one meat-broiler ; one bread-toaster ; two 
frying-pans; one Bain-marie-pan; one omelet-pan; two pudding-moulds; two jelly- 
moulds ; one rolling-pin ; one flour-dredge ; one pepper-dredge ; one salt-dredge ; one 
meat-chopper; one colander; one fish and egg slice; one marble slab for pastry; one 
steamer for potatoes, etc. ; one coffee-mill. 

To these maybe added, pans, ladles, knives, skewers, baking-pans and moulds; 
scales, meat-forks, wooden and iron sj^oons, fish-sealers, egg-beater, steak-beater, 
and in lieu of the marble slab, a smooth, hard-wood board for moulding bread. A 
"Bain-marie" may be improvised from any flat-bottomed pan that will hold one or 



THE LARDEK AND KITCHEN. 



335 



a number of small sauce-pans, its principal use being when filled with boiling water 
and placed where it will keep hot, to simmer sauces, entrees, etc. The list might be 




FAMILY MEAT-CLEAVER. 

added to indefinitely. With those we have mentioned almost any dish may be pre- 
pared, except that of meat roasted before a fire. 

X. Chemistry of the Kitchen. 

Cooking is simply change produced chemically through heat. Condiments are 
for giving, or adding, zest to flavors. The chemistry of bread-making is to cause it 
to rise " light," through the action of carbonic acid gas, which is done by adding 
yeast, or the combination of an alkali and an acid. Soup-making consists in extracting 
the nutritious constituents of meat by long-coutinued and slow boiling. 





SOUP DIGESTER. 



MORTARS AND PESTLES. 



Violent boiling should never be allowed with meat of any kind. For soups, 
stews and other dishes where the juices are to be extracted and form a component 
part of the soup, the meat should only be simmered. When the nutriment is to be 
retained in the meat, it should be put into boiling water and made to cook up quickly. 
This coao-ulates the albumen which surrounds the fiber of the meat and prevents the 
escape of the juices. A good mortar is often useful in the kitchen. The cuts show 
sizes ranging from 1 pint to 1 gallon. 

XI. The Component Parts of Meat. 

Animal flesh, and, of course, this includes that of birds, is composed of the fiber, 
fat, albumen, gelatine and osmazone. 



336 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Pat and Fiber.— The filler cannot be dis,solvcd. The fat is nearlj^ pure carbon, 
contained in cells covered with nieniljranc. The application of a boiling heat Dursts 
the cells, and the fat, which melts at a much less temperature than the boiling point 
of water, is set free and tloats on the top of the boiling water. 

The Albumen. — Albumen is a substance well known as composing the white of 
eo-o-s; the albumen of flesh is similar. Its ofKce is to keep the fibers from becoming 
haid. Under the influence of heat it coagulates, and prevents the fibers from becom- 
ing dry. It is more abundant in young than in old animals. The more albumen the 
flesh contains, the more tender it is. Hence, also, the flesh of young animals is 
whiter than that of old ones. If soup is to ])e made, the meat must be heated very 
slowly, in order that the albumen may not be coagulated too quickly ; but if the meat 
is to be eaten, heat it to the boiling point quickly, to coagulate the albumen, and thus 
retain the gelatine and the osmazone, the latter of which gives flavor to the meat. 

The Gelatine. — Gelatine is the glutinous substance of flesh. It is without 
flavor, but extremely nutritious; from it is made jelly. It has the j^ower of dissolv- 
ing bone. Powdered bones are comjiletely dissolved in it. Bones contain much 
gelatine, two ounces having as much as a pound of meat. Hence, the economy of 
having much bone in the soup meat, or that for stews, etc. 

The Osmazone. — Osmazone flavors meat. The flesh of young animals contains 

less than that of old ones ; the flesh of young animals is more insipid. Koasting, 

baking, or other dr}^ process of cooking intensifies 

the flavor of meat, by acting strongly on the 

osmazone. 

Vegetables with Meats. — Many people 
are perplexed to know just what vegetables are 
most i^roper for different meats. Potatoes should 
be eaten with all meats. AYhen fowds are 
eaten for dinner, the potatoes should be mashed. 
Carrots, parsnips, turnips, greens and cabbage are 
used with boiled meats. Mashed turnips and 
apple-sauce are indis2)ensable to roast pork. 
Tomatoes are good with every kind of meat, and 
at eyevy meal. Cranberry or currant sauce is 
nice with beef, fowls, veal and ham. Many like 
currant jelly with roast nuitton. Pickles are 
suitable to lie eaten with all roast meats, and 
capers or nasturtiums are nice with boiled lamb 
or mutton. Horseradish and lemons are excellent 
with veal, while no dinner-table is complete with- 
out a variety of relishes, such as Worcestershire sauce, chow-chows mushroom or 
tomato catsup. Tobasco sauce is the best preparation of Chili pejDper. 





POTATO MASnEIl, 



TINNED SKEWERS. 



THE LARDER AND KITCHEN. 



337 



XII. A Famous Cook on Boiling. 

Careme, a celebrated French cook, says of soup : The good housewife puts her 
meat into an earthen stock-pot, and pours on cold water in the proportion of two 
quarts of water to three pounds of beef. She sets it by the fire. The pot becomes 
gradually hot, and as the water heats, it dilates the muscular fibers of the flesh by 
dissolving the gelatinous matter which covers them, and allows the albumen to detach 
itself easily and rise to the surface in light foam or scum, while the osmazone, which 
is the savory juice of the meat, dissolving little by little, adds flavor to the broth. 
By this simple process of slow boiling or simmering, the housewife obtains a savory 
and nourishing broth and a bouilli (boiled meat), which latter is tender and of good 
flavor. 

As to the reverse way of boiling, he says: If you place i\i% pot au feu (or soup- 
pot), on too hot a fire, it boils too soon; the albumen coagulates and hardens; the 
water, not having the necessary time to penetrate the meat, hinders the osmazone from 
disengaging itself, and the sad result is, you have only a hard piece of boiled meat and 
a broth without flavor or goodness. A little fresh water poured into the pot at 
intervals, helps the scum to rise more abundantly. 





WOODEN STEAK MAUL. MEAT BLOCK. 

XIII. Boiled and Stewed Dishes. 

Soup should be gently simmered at least four or five hours, but longer is better. 
The meat should be put in a thoroughly clean pot, with the amount of cold water 
heretofore directed ; it should be frequently skimmed to remove the suet, and salted 
and peppered to taste ; when vegetables are used they should be sliced ; twenty min- 
utes should cook them; rice, dumpUngs, etc., should be added the last of all to 

thicken it. 

Joints of meat for boiling should be washed clean, skewered into shape, put into 
the saucepan, or into a kettle having a tight lid, then well covered with cold water, 
and set over a moderate fire. As the scum rises, skim; and keep the cover tight 
when not skimming. It must be skimmed at least once before, or just at the time 
the water begins to boil. If this is delayed, the scum will fall back upon the meat 
and disfio-ure it. Salted meat requires a longer time to boil than fresh meat, and 
salted meat should be freshened by soaking before boiling. Smoked and dried meats 
require a still longer time for boiling than those only salted. 



There are two things to remember in boiling: 1, neither allow the water 



to 



338 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



boil violently, nor to cease simmering; 2, keep the meat coverctl, by adding boiling 
water, if necessary. 

If the meat is required to be light in color, wrap it in a clean white linen cloth. 
The cloth intended for this purpose must be boiled in pure water after being taken 
from the meat, carefully dried, and not allowed to get damp, else it will be musty. 
The time for boiling is from fifteen to twenty minutes for each pound of meat, the 
boiling to be uniform throughout. 





EOUND- BOTTOM POT. 



SEAMLESS GRjVNITE STEW-KETTLE. 



XIV. How to Stew. 

Stewing is slowly simmering in a tight vessel. The liquid should never actually 
boil. The fire must be slow and the process continued until the meat is quite tender. 
If only the pure grav}' is desired the meat is put into a close jar and this placed in a 
stewpan of water. If the meat is stewed in water this must be graduated, so that, 
when done, the gravy will be of the required thickness. If vegetables are used, 
twenty minutes will suffice to cook them, if they are properly sliced. Stewing is 
simply slow cooking or gentle simmering in a vessel closed as tight as possible, and 
with very little water. A digester is a form of stewpan, closed steam tight. This 
process will, if long continued, disintegrate the bones. 



HOUSEHOLD AET AND TASTE. 



BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. 

DKESS AND TOILET AET. 

THE NUESEEY AND SICK-EOOM. 

EULES FOE THE PEESEEVATION OF HEALTH. 

EEMEDIES AND PEEVENTIVES OF DISEASE. 

COOKING FOE THE SICK, ETC., ETC. 



ji¥lemorantium 



HOUSEHOLD ART AN^D TASTE. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
HOUSEHOLD ART AND TASTE. 



I. BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. II. FUENISinNG THE HOUSE.— III. THE PARLOR FURNITURE. IV. 

THE DINING-ROOM. V. THE KITCHEN. VI. THE BED-ROOMS. VII. THE CELLAR. VIII. THE 

WATER SUPPLY. — IX. SOFT-WATER CISTERNS. X. LAYING DOWN CARPETS. XI. PAINTING 

AND KALSOJnNING. XII. ARRANGEMENT OF FURNITURE. XIII. HOUSE CLEANING. XIV 

SWEEPING AND DUSTING— RENOVATING CARPETS. 





OKNAMENTEU CHIMNEY PIECES IN WOOD. 

I. Beautifying the Home. 



«HEN a man builds a house his first duty, after the family is comfortably settled, 

should be to make the surroundings pleasant. In the smallest village lot there 

^«^ is room for decoration. The walks should be graded and made firm and dry; 

T the garden laid out and planted, vines shrubs and the necessary shade trees 

planted. There may not be room for shade within the inclosure, but trees should 

always be set next the street as soon as the house is built, unless finished too late in the 

[341] 



34:2 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

sprino-. In that case the tree planting should be done the next autumn or in the 
followino- spring. Do not forget to plant a few flowers: Pseonia, bleeding heart, 
bellflower, larkspur, French honeysuckle and phlox are hardy, herbaceous peren- 
nials. The liHes, hyacinths, tulips, crocuses, narcissus, etc., are hardy bulbs. Train 
the common honeysuckle, the woodbine, any of the hardy climbing roses, or the 
ampelopsis over the porch or along the veranda. The hardy shrubs for the lawn are 
without number. In a previous chapter we have given a list of valuable fruit-trees 
and shrubs, as well as annual and perennial plants for the farm, orchard and garden. 
There is nothinc: that will so endear their home to the children, and make them love 
it, as the light labor of assisting to keep it trim and fair. 

n. Furnishing the House. 

The furniture of the house should correspond with the condition of the owner. 
Tawdriness must always be avoided. Do not try to ape some one wealthier than 
yourself, by buying cheap, flashy garniture. Plain, substantial furniture for those in 
moderate circumstances will look better and command more respect than cheap 
display. Study harmony. Never furnish a house by buying inferior, second-hand 
furniture or hangings, if it can be avoided. Especially let all bed-room furniture 
and bedding be new. Second-hand pictures, if good, are admissible. The first wear 
of everything else is generally the best. 

Carpets and Bedding. — Never buy a flimsy carpet at any price. Do without 
until good ones can be purchased. If you can buy a good Brussels, with the pile 
dense and close, it will last a generation with proper care. In bedding, start with 
new, clean, honest material. Never let any young person sleep on a feather bed; it 
will cause undue heat, weaken the action of the skin, and cause those who lie in it to 
become susceptible to cold, besides other, more serious, evils of over-heating. If the 
bed or bedding be narrow, the occupant will not rest well, because proper movement 
cannot be made. 

Use the same careful discrimination in the selection of all furniture that you 
would in any other matter. Have less, if necessary, but have that good, rather than 
crowd the rooms with inferior material. It is easier to add to a small number of good 
articles than suffer the annoyance of mistakes in over-furnishing with cheap stuff. 

Hygiene of Bedding. — The system, so prevalent in America, of sleeping on 
feathers, and of placing two or more in a bed together, cannot be too strongly con- 
demned. Healthy children, and all others not invalids, should sleep on hard mat- 
tresses, of which the best are made from curled horse-hair. These are, however, 
expensive, and many good substitutes may be bought; one of the best of these is the 
clean wood-fiber, called excelsior. Have springs, or woven wire, under beds if you 
choose: never feathers, except for very elderly people, who have grown too used to 
them to change. Never let a grown-up person, and, above all, never let an old person 
or an invalid, sleep with a child; it Avill destroy the child's vitality. So far as possi- 
ble, give to each member of the family a bed, Not only is this better for the general 



HOUSEHOLD ART AND TASTE 



343 



health, but often, in case of illness, prevents contaejion. Avoid stoves, especially coal 
stoves, in sleeping-rooms. If a light is needed, never use a turned-down kerosene 
lamp, for its fumes are injurious. Use hard beds, ventilate by open fires or other- 
wise, and cover well with coarse woolen bed-clothes, and half the illness in the family 
will disappear. 

Ill, The Parlor Furniture. 

The parlor, like every other room in the house, should be furnished for wear. 
No sensible person furnishes a parlor to be shut up and remain unused, except upon 
great occasions. It is the place for the family to gather in when leisure allows, and not 
a place to be opened only when "Mrs. Grundy" calls. Hence, the furniture must 
be bought with an eye to use. 




GLASS CASE FOB HOUSE -PLyVNTS. 

The Pictures. — The pictures, whether oil, water-color, good chromos, prints or- 
photographs, should correspond to the condition of the owner. A few really good 
engravings or paintings are better than any number of cheap ones. If you already 
have these, paper or kalsomine the walls to correspond. If there arc engravings, 
composition frames, or those of walnut, rosewood or bird's-eye maple with gilt 
moldings, will be appropriate. There is no better place to study effect than in a 
well-arranged picture gallery, yet how few persons visit one of these for this purpose. 



3M 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



You may also there get some good lessons in hanging, with reference to light, etc. 
If the room is low, hang on nails behind the pictures, so the wire or cord is not seen. 
The Curtains. — Curtains are pleasant things to have in every window of the 
house. They temper the light, keep out cold drafts, j^revent the direct rays of the 
sun from entering when not wanted, and should be of material to correspond with the 
other furniture of the room. 

The Parlor Carpet. — The parlor should, of course, have the best carpet in the 
house. In rooms of ordinary size avoid large iigures. They cause a carpet to cut to 
waste and make the room look small. Also, avoid glaring colors. That so many 
such carpets are made shows that taste in the masses needs cultivating. The manu- 
facturers are not to blame. They simply cater to the demands of the public. 

House-Plants, etc. — Flowers and plants are in order everywhere, inside the 
house and out. The parlor, however, unless it be the living-room also, is not the 
place for their cultivation. We do not believe in dark parlors, yet in these rooms 

there is hardly sun enough admitted for the best 
growth of plants. Place such as may be easily 
moved in nice vases, and use them when in their 
best condition to ornament the room ; those kept 
in wardian and other glass covered cases will also 
do well. The illustration of Glass Case for House- 
plants on page 727, shows a pretty design that 
may be kept in the living-room, and is easily 
moved from one room to another as may be 
desired. Ferns are admirable; none are prettier, 
in a collection, than the walking fern, shown 
on opposite page. Ferns will not bear the sun 
nor live in a dry atmosphere. For house culti- 
vation they are usually kept in glass cases. An 
aquarium is pretty anywhere; especially so in 
AQUARIUM. ^j^^ dining-room. All these we have mentioned 

may, with proper care, be freely rolled along a carpet from one room to another. 




IV. The Dining-Room. 



The dining-room requires little furniture, but that should be good and as hand- 
some as you can afford. Stuffed furniture is out of place here, even if the dining- 
room is also used as a living-room. A sideboard, with proper conveniences, should be 
had if possible. The carpet ought to be bright rather than dark, and correspond to 
the other furniture, and the pictures in harmony with the surroundings. Here ao-ain 
the skill of the housewife may be used to have the proper closets for china and table 
ware oonvenient. In these days of inexpensive and excellent plated ware, a very 
litMe money, comparatively speaking, will add largely to the comfort and economy of 



HOUSEI-IOI.n ART AND TASTE. 345 

the table service. Do not overdo tlic matter, though here and in the kitchen one may 




WALKIXG FERNS. 

be pardoned any reasonable expense that will add to the I'cal comfort of the family. 





PINEAPPLE AND FKUIT. fASJ.; ov FKRNS. 

What Taste may do. — The dining-room is an excellent place to display taste, 



346 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



and this is especially the case if it be also used as the living-room. Let some of the 
pictures be suggestive of good living, game-birds, tish, fruit pieces, etc. An aqua- 
rium, plants, etc., as described in the section relating to the parlor, will also be 
appropriate for the dining-room. In the South, fruits not quite hardy enough for 
growino- out of doors may be used. Among a collection we once saw was a grow- 
ino- pineapple as a dining-room decoration, removed from the greenhouse. 

If one has a greenhouse many beautiful things may be grown for temporary 
removal to the dining-room; if not, some of the fruit-bearing house-plants may be 
used; such, for example, as Solanum or Jerusalem cherries. Among table decora- 
tions bouquets of flowers, or at the least some green thing, always suggest refinement. 
The fern case shown is appropriate for this purpose. The dining-room should be 




WINDOW-PLANTS IN DINING-ROOM. 



well lighted and cheerful, especially so when also used as the living-room, Break the 
glare of the sun, when necessary, with curtains. The illustration of Window-jilants 
in Dining-room shows a pretty effect. To produce this costs little besides the neces- 
sary care of the plants, which may be made a labor of love as well as an educator to 
the children. 

V. The Kitchen. 

This is the most important room in every house of moderate expense, if not in all 
houses. The furniture should be ample and of the best manufacture consistent with 
the means of the owner. All kettles, stew and sauce pans should be of good tinned 
ware, or of stone or other silicate finish. Granite and other enamel coatings are now 
made so cheaply that the}' soon pay their cost in the ease of cleaning. The sink should 
be ample; the stove provided with a hot-water apparatus, the pantry and other 



HOUSEHOLD AliT AND TASTE. 



347 



closets easy of access. Let the floor be of hard wood, and covered with a good oil- 
cloth, if you can afford it, or, if not, well painted ; rugs may be used in places where 
the work usually stands, for a woman's feet should not be in constant pressure either 
on oil-cloth or upon the bare floor. Here again the good sense of the mistress of the 
house may be shown in furnishing, both with a view to comfort and for the economy 
of work. 

If servants are employed, they must be instructed in the proper care of the 
kitchen utensils, or there will be much waste from breakage or misuse. Hence, the 
necessity that the mistress fully understand how things should be done. If she must 
do the work herself, it will be a pleasure to be able to do it deftly and neatly ; for 
light-handed neatness is the crowning glory of housekeeping. 





TUB riLTER. 



TOWEL RACK. 



Every kitchen should be provided with a filter for water, especially where rain- 
water is used for drinking, as is the case in many districts. The cut of Tub Filter 
shows a home-made affair, but as good as the best where ice forms a part of the filter 
over the strainine: cloth and under the dust cloth or cover. A towel rack is also indis- 
pensable. The one shown in the cut needs no explanation; any man can make it. 

VI. The Bed-Booms. 

Nowhere can better taste be displayed than in the sleeping apartments. As to 
carpets, every housekeeper must decide for herself. We should prefer a painted floor, 
and rugs so laid that the occupant would have no occasion to step on the wood after 
the shoes are removed. The rugs can be taken out in the sun, shaken and aired 
while the floor is mopped clean. Carpets in bed-rooms are unknown on the Continent 
of Europe in the grandest of private houses, and in such rooms, are traps for dust, 
germs of disease and death. 

The furniture, however rich, should always be simple, and of solid material, 
to avoid dust and dirt, and be readily cleaned. The old-fashioned carpets and bed- 
curtains should be avoided. If possible, have in the bed-room only the bed, a rug 
and a few chairs; dress and undress in an adjoining room, which may be made as 



348 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



pretty as possible and kept much warmer in winter than the one which is used for 
sleeping in. In this dressing-room place the wardrobe, chest of drawers, pretty odds 
and ends, as well as the wash-hand stand and other such conveniences. This, too, is 
improved by a bright and pretty carpet, pictures and other wall decorations; the bed- 
room must have none of these. They only hold germs of disease, and dirt. 

VII. The Cellar. 

Even the smallest cottage should contain this important adjunct, if the nature of 
the soil will, or can be made to admit of proper drainage therefrom. The arrange- 
ment of the cellar is no less important. It should be fairly lighted, and be divided 
off into proper rooms according to the size of the house. In the smallest cottage the 
vegetable cellar should be separated from the rest, and proper ventilation should be 
looked to, else the odor will certainly reach every part of the house above. In large 
houses the laundry often occupies a portion of the cellar. If so, it should be pro- 
vided with conveniences for hot and cold water, perfect ventilation, stationary tubs, 
with means for draining off wash-water, a sink and other fixtures. 

VIII. The Water Supply. 

Every farm-house — where there is a windmill for raising water — should have the 
necessary tanks for soft water for the house. These tanks may be in the barn or on 
other suitable elevations, from which the water may be conducted in pipes provided 
with faucets. In laying the pipes the greatest care should be taken that they are no- 
where within reach of frost. If they are they become a source of constant annoyance 
in winter, and often of considerable damage to the building. Architects more often 
fail in providing against damage from frost than in any other respect. Plumbers are 
never mindful in this matter. They simply do their work according to the plan 
given. See, therefore, that no water pipes run next the outer wall of the building; 
that they are always Avhere they can easily be gotten at, and, as an extra precaution, 
that they are always encased in some non-conducting material when there is any 
danger from frost ; and, also, that in very cold weather a small flow may escape from 
the discharge-pipe connecting with all, during the night, so a constant current may 
be kept up. The supply-pipe should be brought, underground, well beneath the frost 
line, to the center of the cellar beneath the house. A wooden box, of boards not 
less than one foot wide, should receive the pipe at the depth of about two feet under 
the cellar floor and conduct it to the story above. This box must have the pipe in 
its center and the space between be packed in sawdust. In northern climates the pipe 
must extend to no room not kept warm in winter. It is better to do without it than 
have it freeze and break. 

IX. Soft-Water Cisterns. 

Cisterns for rain-water should always be placed where they will not freeze. 
This is especially necessary where they are built of brick or stone and cement, for we 
suppose no one nowadays will consent to have a cistern plastered up directly on the 



HOUSEHOLD ART AND TASTE. 



349 



earth or clay. It is cheap, and it is as worthless as it is cheap. In some localities, 
drinking-water is so diificult to obtain, that cisterns which collect the rain-water 
furnish the only supply. In this case, the cistern should be in two parts with a filter 
between. When it is built in this way, and the water comes from clean roofs, the 
water, though insipid, is pure and healthful. The living water of wells is, however, 
better in every respect, but no well-water is entirely safe, unless means have been 
taken to keep out surface drainage, and they are liable to be contaminated by the 
seepage, from sewers, the out-houses or the barnyard. 

The danger from this latter cause is much greater than many people suppose. 
The earth is always honey-combed with the borings of insects and small animals, 
which always carry their burrows to the nearest water, generally the well. Seepage 
once entering these cavities inevitably finds its way to the well. Unfortunately, the 
most deadly germs are often not to be detected by the taste or smell. For this 
reason, many persons prefer cistern water to that from the well. When danger is 
suspected from wells, the water should always be boiled. No filtering will take out 
the deadly germs. Indeed, half the disease of the world would be avoided if all 
the water drunk was first boiled. 

X. Laying Dcwn Carpets. 

Laying down the carpets is a task always dreaded by women. In fact, no 
heavy carpet should ever be undertaken by them. That it is a man's work always, 

may be easily discovered by anybody who 
has laid one. For this reason, in cities, the 
merchant who sells, undertakes to cut, fit 
and lay the carpet. In the country this is 
not always possible. With expensive car- 
pets it will always be better to employ 
some one who thoroughly understands the 
art. An implement for stretching the car- 
pet is always convenient and often indis- 
pensable. 

First of all, the carpet must be cut into 
suitable lengths for the room, allowing for 
the proper matching of the breadths. It is 
then sewn together, breadth upon breadth, 
until the proper width is obtained. Then 
tack it down upon two sides, one way with 
the length and the other across the breadth, 
It must be cut and fitted to inequalities, when 
necessary, and if a bay window is to be carpeted, this must be allowed for in cutting. 
The other two sides are then tacked down, the stretching always being carefully 
attended to, so that when finished, it will lie perfectly fiat and without wrinkles. 




CARPET STRETCHEK. 



being careful to stretch all equally. 



350 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XI. Painting and Kalsomining. 

It is always better, if you can afford it, to hire both painting and kalsomining 
done by competent mechanics. If you do this, a perfect understanding must be had 
that the material shall be of the best, aud that it shall not be dropped about the floors 
and over the furniture. There is no reason whatever why a person who understands 
his business should mess up a house with either paint or kalsomine. No person who 
takes little enough on the brush at a time of properly mixed material, need make a 
slop. If a dirty wall is to be kalsomined, never allow the size or first coat to be put 
on until the wall has been washed. This is done with a large sponge dipped in warm 
water, and pressed until nearly dry. This will wash off the dirt without dripping. 
With good brushes any one can soon learn to kalsomine, and to do common painting. 

A mistake, too often made, is not mixing at first enough material of the required 
color to do the whole work. If you keep mixing a little at a time you never have 




KALSOMINE BRUSH. 



your walls of a uniform tint. So far as paints are concerned, they may be bought 
ready mixed and of any color. Graining and ornamental painting should never be 
attempted by an inexpert. In this case the very best workmen are always the 
cheapest. 

Whitewashing. — Whitewash of hme is now seldom used for covering inside 
walls. There is no reason why it should not be. If properly made, it covers a 
surface almost as smoothly as the chalk of which kalsomine is composed, and is devoid 
of the disagreeable smell thereof. For covering rough buildings, fences, and other 
structures, where paint would be too costly, it is excellent, and, if properly made, is 
fairly water-proof, and may be applied by any one of ordinary intelligence and care. 
In order, however, that it may saturate the surface and hold, it should be put on hot, 
for which purpose the vessel containing it may be kejot over a good-sized kerosene 
lamp or a low fire of charcoal. 

Recipe for Whitewasll. — One of the best washes we have ever used is made 
thus : To so much water as will fill a barrel to the depth of two inches add one-half 



HOUSEHOLD ART AND TASTE. 351 

bushel of pure, white quick-lime; then put in one peck of salt, previously dissolved 
in hot water ; cover tightly to keep in the steam; when cold, strain through a fine 
sieve; heat it again and then add, hot, a thin starch paste made from three pounds of 
rice flour; stir; add one jjound, hot, of strong glue ; add half-pound of whiting, 
previously dissolved in hot water ; dilute with hot water to consistency of cream ; 
apply hot. 

The glue is first soaked, then gradually dissolved in water, by placing the vessel 
holding it in another containing boiling water; used as directed, this is the most per- 
manent wash we know of. About a pint of the mixture will cover a square yard of 
surface. 

Colored Washes. — To make the above a cream-color, add yellow ochre until 
the desired shade is reached. For fawn-color, add four pounds of umber to one pound 
of lampblack. For gray or stone-color, four pounds of raw umber to two pounds of 
lampblack. Add to the whitewash until the desired shade is reached. To determine 
the color it must be seen dry, and not damp. Hence, when trying the color, let it 
dry to observe the tint. 

XII. Arrangement of Furniture. 

The arrangement of furniture may make pleasant or mar the appearance of a 
room. Primness and precision should be avoided. If the chairs are set carefully 
against the wall at equal distances, if the sofa looks as though it had never been sat 
upon, if the center-table has a touch-me-not appearance, the general effect of the 
room will chill the visitor. The appearance of the room should be that of one used 
daily. The drapery about the windows should not be such as to shut out the light, 
but simply to tone down the glare. If the carpet is good, a fair amount of light will 
not hurt it, and a room that is always closed and dark, except when "company" 
comes, is sure to be musty, uncomfortable and unhealthful. If 3'ou cannot study out 
effects yourself, call in the aid of some one who has an eye for effect, and can pro- 
duce like ones without copying. Observe effects in other houses, or take the advice 
of your upholsterer, always reserving to yourself the casting vote, as to how much 
you can afford to spend upon any particular room or object. 

XIII. House-Cleaning. 

In house-cleaning you will save yourself and family much inconvenience, by not 
undertaking too much at onoe. Clean one room or one set of rooms at a time, and 
observe order in so doing. If your house is to be kalsomined or papered, this should 
be done first. House-cleaning is a time of severe labor, and any arrangement that 
will lighten the labor should be observed. Thus, the carpets may be taken up to be 
cleaned by the men, who may also kalsomine the walls. This will materially lighten 
the labor of the women. Many housewives prefer to hire extra labor, and this is 
decidedly the better way. 



352 



TWENTIETH CEXTTtry HOME COOK BOOK. 



XIV. Sweeping and Dusting-.— Renovating Carpets. 

Carpets should be brushed over at least once a day, and thoroughly swept once 
a week, when every uiovuble piece of furniture should be moved. These should be 
thoroughly wipea or dusLd every time the broom is used. If the carpet becomes 
dingy, it should be wiped with a damp sponge, and dried with clean flannel cloths. 
If there are grease-; spots, they may be taken out by thoroughly pounding and mixing 
together equal parts of magnesia and fuller's earth. Make this into a paste with 
boiling water, lay it over the grease-spot, hot, and by the following day it will have 
absorbed the grease ; it may then be scraped and brushed off. If, unfortunately, 
grease or oil has been spilled on the carpet, it should be taken out, if possible, 
before that is again swejit. Ordinaiy stains may usually be removed with lemon- 
VI. Ge or dilute oxalic acid. 











"■•'" ' '■■■■"■- ■■- ..■......■■■. "^p ■' ll ^ .1. ■ 

FLOOR BllUSH. 



Not every person knows how to sweep cleaji without raising a great dust. If in 
sweejjing you carry the broom, in its stroke, beyond you, it will inevitably make 
dust from the spring of the fibers of the broom. The spent tea-leaves should always 
be saved moist and scattered over the carpet for tie regular sweepings, or salt should 
be strewn over the carpet. The strokes of the bj. jom should be short, firm, and each 
should end when the broom has been drawn rj.-^nrly up to a line with the person. 
Comers and the sides of the room should receive especial attention. As a preventive 
of dust a good carpet sweeper is valuable, but tlie movable furniture must be taken 
out to do good work, and the corners and edg, t; ol^aned with the broom, brush and 
dust-pan. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 
THE PARLOR AND LIBRARY- 



K. THE ROOMS FOR COMPANY. II. GUESTS OF THE HOUSE. UI. ETIQUETTE OF THE PARLOR. IV. 

ENTERTAINING VISITORS AND GUESTS. V. DAILY DUTIES NOT INTERRUPTED BY GUESTS. VI. 

GOING TO BED. VII. SERVANTS AND PARLOR SERVICE. VIII. DUTY TO CHILDREN. IX. WHAT 

CONSTITUTES VULGjVRITY. X. PARLOR DECORATION. XL DECORATION NOT NECESSARILY 

COSTLY. XII. A ROCKING CHAffi. XIII. A PRACTICAL FiVMILY. XIV. INGENIOUS AND USE- 
FUL. 

I. The Rooms for Company. 



lll^HE Parlor. — The apartment where guests are received may be one of the 
^''= parlors, the reception-room, or the library, supposing the house to be lar<^c 



^f^ enough to contain all these. In England a distinction is made between the 
parlor and the drawing-room. In city houses, the parlor (^trom parloir, r place 
to speak in) is on the ground floor, and used as a reception-room and J::i.;e to 
transact business, while the drawing-room (or withdrawing-room, as it was H-^merly 
called) is on the tirst floor, up one flight of stairs, and used more ceremor lo-jbly. In 
the United States we use the two words with the same meaning, as our iouses nave 
no such division. In large houses there are often two or more parlor.;, and the mis- 
tress of the establishment has, on the bed-room floor, what is calle^ ner boudoir, a 
private parlor for the reception of intimate, and, usually, female fi.ends; as the study 
is, for men who have no ofiice, the private room of the master of the house. 

The Library. — The library should be solidly furnished, and contain, besides 
the bookcases, writing table and desk, easy chairs, lounges, sofas, etc. The books 
may be kept either in movable cases or those built permanently into the '..-alls. 

In smaller houses the parlor may serve also as a librar-/, and oftcii the " living- 
room " has to do duty as parlor, library and sitting-room. 

II. Guests of the House. 

It is the duty of the host and hostess to receive guests coidioj y and make them 
feel "at home." The tact of the individual must teach how to do this properly. 
It comes of the usage that can only be learned by contact with polite people. Kules 
cannot be laid down. They must be learned by observation, ii, is in perfect accord- 
ance with good taste among people of small means that the Uiaster, mistress or chil- 
dren of the household perform all the offices netessary t<; the comfort of guests, 
including those of the table. If there are scj/ants, weu and good. If not, such 
service is only that of a friend to friends. 

III. Etiquette (i the Parioi. 

Etiquette has been said to be the cod of unwritc'.n laws that governs the man- 
ners of people living in polite society. 7 li .'oeiuiy i,; " polite," whatever the station 



354: TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

in life, provided good breeding is observed. Good breeding is the exhi- 
bition of gentleness, deference, suavitj^ of manner, thoughtfulness, generosity, modesty 
and self-respect. Ease and cordiality, without freedom of manner, mark the gen- 
tleman or lady; freedom without ease, the vulgarian. If you receive a letter of intro- 
duction by a postman, acknowledge it immediately or call upon the stranger. If the 
person introduced brings it in person, receive the gentleman or lady courteously, and 
if a continuation of the acquaintance is desirable, give an invitation for another day, 
upon leave-taking. 

All must exercise their own discretion as to introductions. In small parties, the 
guests are, as a rule, introduced to each person separately. In large gatherings not. 

IV. Entertaining Visitors and Guests. 

Visitors are entertained by the ordinary gossip of the day, matters of loca. 
interest, society news, fashions, music, art, articles of taste, paintings, prints, poetry, 
and the general literature of the day. To entertain well, both parties should be well 
conversant with some of these. Gentlemen are interested in horses, fine stock, hunt- 
ing, fishing, literature, art, science, and the out-door sports. The particular tastes of 
the visitor or guest being discovered, the drift into these channels is easy enough. 
In this, the visitor or guest should also come to understand the taste of the host and 
hostess, and then all comes easy enough. 

V. Daily Duties not Interrupted by Guests. 

On the farm there are always routine duties that must occupy the attention of 
the host. Guests should be careful never to intrude upon these, and the host and 
hostess as careful, while attending to all necessary duties of the farm and household, 
to give as much time to guests as possible. No sensible person will ever make a long 
visit at a time of pressure of business. There are, however, many farmers whose 
leisure is ample at all times, and who keep servants enough to attend to all household 
duties, supervision only being necessary. With the majority, however, there is at 
most seasons, an absolute necessity for daily labor. Yet there are few who cannot 
entertain visitors during some part of the day, or find time to receive guests, and yet 
neglect no necessary labor. The guest who cannot at such times entertain him or 
her self, and even assist, had far better stay at home. The guest who has the happy 
faculty of keeping out of the way at proper times, and of doing service at others, 
we have never yet seen unwelcome in the farm household. 

VI. Going to Bed. 

Not every person knows when to go to bed, nor when to get up. In the country, 
hours are necessarily early. The great charm is the early summer morning. To 
enjoy this, we must see the sun rise, and to be up early enough to do this, one should 
be in bed by nine o'clock at night. The routine duties of the farm make these hours 
imperative upon the host and hostess, if working farmers, and country life should 
require their observance by all in summer. 



The tARLOR AND LtBRARV. 355 

Once a guest has been shown to his chamber, courtesy would require that the 
service should not be daily performed. Yet, many like to continue chatting after 
leaving the parlor. Ladies, especially, find pleasant amusement with each other in a 
short bed-room talk over the events of the day and plans for the morrow. 

VII. Servants and. Parlor Service. 

When there are servants, the routine work nmst be performed by them. It is 
their duty to see that everything is done at the proper time. The parlors, library and 
dining-room are to be aired, swept and dusted before the family appear in the morn- 
ing, and guests should scrupulously avoid being present at such times. Among the 
services to be performed is carrying hot or cold water to the guest chambers, attend- 
ing to their occupants, and lighting these to bed at night, or, at least, bringing in the 
necessary candles to the parlor or bed-rooms and lighting them. In the winter, care 
should be taken that the bed-chambers are properly heated. In a country where fuel 
is so cheap as in the United States, there is at least no possible reason why a person 
should be obliged to undress or dress in a frozen room. There is neither economy 

nor wisdom in it. 

VIII. Duty to Children. 

Children should be early instructed in the ordinary amenities of life. At their 
time of life impressions are easily received and become a part of their character as 
men and women. Politeness and decorum in the parlor, dining-room or library costs 
nothing, and are as necessary when the parlor, dining-room and kitchen are one and 
the same room, as in more extensive houses. In this country we have no caste, and 
the child of the poorest parents may be called to the highest i^ositions. If they are 
tauo-ht habits of cleanliness, decorum, and gentleness of manner, when young, it will 
clino- to them through life, and go far to keep them out of bad company when they 
grow up. It gives habits of self-respect, and deters them alike from seeking bad 
company and from foolish or criminal expenditures. Children shoukl by no means 
be curtailed of enjoyment. On the contrary, they should be given full liberty to 
indulo-e in innocent pleasures, guided by habits of self-restraint and self-reliance. 
They should feel they may always freely go to their parents for advice and sympathy. 
Thus they will come to regard home as the most pleasant place. They will naturally 
avoid rouo-h and vulgar companions, and seldom, if ever, care for vicious or vulgar 

pastimes. 

IX. What Constitutes Vulgarity. 

In general terms that is vulgar which is not in accordance with the usage of 
refined society. Loud laughter or loud conversation in public places is vulgar. Not 
to pay the proper deference to each other is vulgar. Not to assist a woman in any 
difiiculty is not only vulgar but positively brutal. Not to apologize to any person 
whom you may accidentally jostle in a thoroughfare, especially if roughly, is vulgar 
and causes the action to be brutal. To refuse to accept an apology under like circum- 
stances is vulvar. It is vulgar not to show self-respect. Arrogance is equally vulgar. 



556 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



In fact, a dictionary of vulgar actions would fill a volume, and yet few persons are 
so lost to self-respect that tlicy do not have a prick of conscience at a vulgar action, 
at least until their consciences are scared, or unless their education has been neglected 
at home. For conscience, although inherent in human nature, may be as much 
improved by education as any other faculty. 

X. Parlor Decorations. 

The furniture and decoration of the parlor should be as rich as you can afford. 
In any event the room should have an air of light and cheerfulness. Both it and the 
library should be comfortable, home-like rooms. Avoid glaring colors or cheap 
finery. Never buy stiff " sets " of furniture and never crowd your rooms with 
trash. The handsomest effects are often produced where each piece of furniture has 
been bought when wanted or it was convenient to do so. Let there be comfortable 
easy chairs and sofas, and always some chairs light enough to be easily lifted and 
moved. The wall-paper should be rich and generally light-colored, but of no pro- 
nounced pattern. Wooden mantels are handsome and often costly. If of marble these 
may be white or clouded. The wood-work should be light, unless rich dark Avoods 
are used, and the door-plates to match. Where the heating is by a stove, it may be 
steel, bronze or ormolu, and the fixtures for lighting the apartment at night should 
match. A chandelier makes a prett}^ center-piece for the ceiling, or if the room is 
long and lai'ge, two or moi'c. 

XI. Decoration Not Necessarily Costly. 

The parlor must be, to be pretty, the room lived in. Never have a room too fine 
for yourself and j^our children to pass the evening in. It is part of the education of 

the latter to be in daily, familiar 
contact with the pretty house- 
hold decorations that are always 
found in such rooms, when oc- 
cupied by persons of taste, and 
an ordinary faculty of feminine 
ingenuity. We have seen bet- 
ter-kept and more healthj^ 
plants, in such a room where 
the family did the labor, and 
a prettier arrangement of 
them, than we ever saw in 
households where the care was 
left entirely to servants. One 
case in particular we recall. A 
large oriel window like that 
shown in the illustration made 
one side of the room. The carpet was a good ingrain, in pretty figured squares. 




AN OKIEL WINDOW. 



THE PARLOR AND LIBRARY. 



357 



There was not a costly piece of furniture in the room, and yet it had an air of com- 
fort and of refinement that is within the reach of all. 

Another room we remember where there was no bay window, was made fully as 
handsome, by the arrangement shown in the illustration of Living-room Window. 
The projection is inside, not out, and 
yet the effect is as pleasing, as unique ; 
serving, not only to hold and protect 
the plants, but adding to and ornament- 
ing the room. Except the ordinary 
furniture and the prints, everything. 





THE LIVING-ROOM WINDOW. 



DEAGOX-LIKE OENAMEXT. 

including the frames for the pictures, 
had been made by the members of the 
household. The chair covers and the 
back of the lounge were made of patch- 
work, resembling embroidery, which is 
named applique. 

Some of the individual figures were grotesque enough, as for instance, a 
dragon with bat-like wings, came near the present fashionable rage for Japanese 
ornamentation. The backs of the chairs were covered in designs something like that 
in the illustration of Chair Cover, or rather, ornamented by pieces like those fastened 
to the back, for the cut really represents what the ladies call a tidy. 

XII. A Rocking -Chair. 

The rocking-chair deserves more than a passing notice, for it is " mother's 
chair," and made for her especial use. The boys, let us suppose, having reseated 
and cushioned the old rocker, the girls covered it. The seat and back were cushioned 
with hair, covered with soft grayish material. Then Turkish toweling was cut some- 
what larger, to allow for fold and nailing. The figures were cut from dark cloth, and 
appliqued to this foundation with zephyr worsted, the fringe and tassels made of 
ravelings of the toweling colored red. The cross-stitch at the edges was worked with 
the same color. The dragon rampant was considered especially appropriate, since the 
grandfather had once been a sailor to the " China Seas." 



858 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XIII. A Practical Family. 
The old grandfather had reason to be proud of his descendants. There were 
three boys and three girls, and each " wonderful for something," as the old gentle- 




"iTiLiiiii i' ; ^".'"i'^^ '- ....rp''''Tr! Ill" 
DESIGN FOR CHAIE COVER. 




THE DRAGON CHAffi. 



man expressed it. Dolly and Tom engineered the chair and other work of like 
kind, Aleck was good in carpentry work, and Sarah in designing. The Work-box 
and Seat was made by Aleck, Dolly and Sarah ; the designs and fittings being by 
Sarah, and the embroidery by Dolly, of course, while Aleck made the frame. The 








WORK-BOX AND SEAT. 



SCISSORS CARE. 



appliques were of velvet, caught down with a button-hole stitch of silk, and the 
embroidery in a large loose stitch, but delicately rendered. 



THE PAELOR AND LIBRARY. 



359 



Sarah was the "author," as Tom called it, of all the " cute fixtures." The 
Scissors. Case was her work, of course. Tom was a genius in his way — a maker of 




A PLANT CASE. 



rustic work and a florist helper to Anna, the artist. The Plant Case was the joint 
work of Tom and Anna. 





A PLANT FUMIGATOR 



PLANT-CASE BOTTOM 



It is well known that many plants, as ferns, orchids, etc., do best in a close, 
moist atmosphere ; at least they will not thrive in a dry or changeable one, and so 



360 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Tom promised, when he went away from home, that some day they should have a 
better case than the one originally improvised. In time it came, and with it the 
plants to fill it. The stand was of mahogany, lined with zinc and strengthened with 
brass. The top was of brass and French glass; the panels were painted by Anna. 

Now, plants cannot be kept healthy at all times in a room without occasional 
fumigation to destroy insects. Perhaps j'ou would like to see their fumigator. Simple 
enough, is it not, as shown in the illustration? A muslin cover draped over a wire 
frame, a little tin box, if you like, for the burning tobacco, a tube leading under the 
cloth and another tube for blowing to keep up combustion and drive out the smoke. 



XIV. Ingenious and Useful. 



While on the subject of simple things, h 
trivances, a water-cooler. 



Sarah's ingenious con- 





MOSS WATER-COOLEE. 




SAEAH'S WHAT-NOT. 



ALECK'S QUILTING FR.VME. 



A porous (unglazed) vase was bo- )';(, j-.-' :• ss was fastened about it as shown. 
The water, percolating through the poix's, he!;'- 1 to keep the moss damp, cooled 
the water, and, when much evaporation and co'-;;v iuent coolness were wanted, the 
vase was set in a draft of air. The far.ily hav- ;:3 now, and the old water-cooler is 
now a living vase. It is kept full of wa' ?v, and v.r.."ous small seeds are sown amontr 



THE PARLOR AND LIBRARY. 



361 



the moss, which is held in phicc with fine silvered wire. Garden cress <ind various 
ornamental grasses are pretty growing in this way. 

A modification of the Wardiun case may be had by getting a stand of terra cotta, 
putting a rim inside, within which a glass shade is set. Inside the shade arc mosses, 
lycopodiums and ferns ; and between the two rims a living fringe of foliage may 
be had with a little care; for, the rim being kept filled with water, cut fiowers may be 
maintained there as shown in the illustration of Plant-case Bottom. 

Sarah's What-not was a light affair, but heavy enough for the light articles it was 
to hold. It was made of card-board, small figured gilt wall-paper, velvet bordering, 
picture-frame cord and tassels. 

Aleck's Quilting Frame must also be described : The legs, d d d d, were of hard 
wood, one and one-quarter inch thick, three inches wide and three and one-half feet 
long; the bar, c, was two and one-half inches "eight square;" the rollers, a a, 
to M'hich the quilt is attached, two and one-half inches "eight square,' with a strip of 
cloth on one side on which to fasten the quilt, tiie rollers passing tiirough the legs 
at 1111; the cross-pieces, b h, were twenty-seven inches long, of inch stuff mor- 
tised at each end, which held the quilt stretched. These slipped on and off, and 
when not in use the frame could be folded up and put away. It has on more 
than one occasion been made to serve as a cot. 




FOUR-KOOM COTTAGE. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 
THE DINING-ROOM AND ITS SERVICE. 



I. DINING-ROOM rURNITURE AND DECORATION. — II. TABLE ETIQUETTE. III. CARVING AT TABLE. 

IV. CARVING FOUR-FOOTED GAME. V. CAR\aNG BIRDS AND FOWLS. VI. CARVING FISH. 

VII. THE SERVICE OF THE TABLE. VIII. SOME DISHES FOR EPICURES. IX. QUEER FziCTS jVBOUT 

VEGETABLES. X. THE USE OF NAPKINS. 

I. Dining-Room Furniture and Decoration. 

gN all we have said of the ornamentation of farms, of the home, of household art 

and taste, and in all we shall say, we wish again to have borne in mind that it is 

'^' intended for those whose yearly increasing means allow them to gratify their 



tastes. Those struggling to pay debts, or those still employed in bringing their 
farms into condition, should spend little in display; all is needed for mere comfort. 
While we have endeavored to show how comfort may be secured at light cost, we wish 
at the same time to educate taste, and show how, as wealth increases, the money may 
be spent to the best advantage. 

The dining-room furniture has already been spoken of. The paper on the walls 
should not be of gaudy pattern, but may be rich and warm in tone. Massive mold- 
ings and cornices should be used in the better class of houses. The arrangements for 
heating should be perfect, for no one can enjoy a meal in a room that is insufficiently 
heated or over-heated. The dining-room table may be as massive and handsome as 
possible, even to solid mahogany if the purse will allow. The chairs ought to be 
strong and at the same time as light as is consistent with strength. Either mahogany 
.or oak will be handsome enough, and our preference would be for the latter wood with- 
out reference to its lesser cost ; there is no limit to the ornamentation that may be 
put upon wood, in carving, etc. Whatever it be, all must harmonize. Let it be all 
oak, all cherry, all mahogany, to correspond with the graining or the solid wood- 
work of the room. If the chairs are upholstered, leather is the best. A sideboard 
of some kind for glassware, china, etc., and which is to be placed near the head of 
the table, may be considered indispensable in a large dining-room. In all farm- 
houses of the better sort these will be found economical in the end. 

Decoration of the Table.— The illustration of Completely Arranged Dinner- 
table is given more for the hints and suggestions it contains than for close imitation. 
With handsome silver and cut glass the wealthy can, of course, makeup a magnificent 
dinner-table. The floral work shown in the illustration is thus done: In the dish at 
the bottom of the center-piece place the flowers of the scarlet cereus, and about it 
cluster stephanotus, with spikes of cyperus, alternating with delicate fern-leaves 
above. In the compartment half-way up the stand are various flowers, including 



THE DINING-ROOM ANO ITS SERVICE. 



363 



pale small geraniums, lily of the valley, maiden-hair, some spikes of ornamental 
grasses, with lycopodium trailing over the edge. In the funnel-shaped top is a bouquet 
of various flowers, with vines drooping therefrom. The end-pieces are low pots of 
ferns covered with foliage. There is a small bouquet at every plate. 

Of course, excessive decoration will not be indulged in by persons of good taste, 
however wealthy. The every-day decoration is in accordance with the every-day 
expenditure, but within this limit some attempt should be made by all, every-day, t-o 
beautify the table with flowers and in other ways that refined taste may suggest. 




COMPLETELY ARRANGED DINNER-TABLE. 



II. Table Etiquette. 



If you are not conversant with table etiquette, observe the actions, in a quiet way, 
of those whom you suppose to be most conversant therewith. Full directions for 
table etiquette and all other matters of personal department will be found in Part IX. 
of this work. No person is expected to take wine at a dinner party unless it is usual 
for them so to do. If you do, always use the proper glasses for the wine served. If 
fish knives and forks are provided, use them; if not, use only your fork and a small 
crust of bread. Never put the uneatable portions of fish, flesh, fowls, or other debris 
off your plate, and especially do not lay any such thing on the cloth. Avoid remarks 
upon the qualit}^ or value of the food or service. If asked to take wine with any of 
the company, and you do not wish to be excused on the plea that you do not drink 
wine, have your glass replenished. It is not usual now to take wine in this way, and 
no person is expected to take wine as a matter of course. Never take a bone in your 



364 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



fingers; the meat can always be separated with the knife. If, unfortunately, you get 
a bone or other substance in your mouth that may not be swallowed, remove it deftly 
in your napkin ; but such should never be the case, if you are careful and do not 
hurry in 3'our eating. If you must cough or sneeze, do so in your handkerchief and as 
quietly as possible; and, above all, never drink hastily or with your mouth full. 

III. Carving at Table. 

Every person should know how to carve ; practice until you are reasonably per- 
fect. It is never done by main strength. A good knife, moderately long, pointed and 





A DEESSED HAM. 



SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 



keen must be used. All meat should be separated at the joints by the butcher. 
Birds are served whole. Fish are divided with the fish slice, and the flakes should 
not be broken in serving. A good rule in carving meats is to cut in rather thin slices, 
across the grain, serving some fat with the lean. 

Carving a Ham. — In carving a boiled or baked ham begin nearly midway from 
the small end and carve in thin slices across the ham, following in succession to the 
larger part. Cut across from A to B, as shown in the illustration. For those who 
prefer the hock, carve at D. When a fair amount of meat has been carved, cut the 
remainder, in the direction of C, D, in thin slices. 





FILLET OP VEAL. 



LEG OF MUTTON. 



Roast Beef and Veal. — If a roast of beef or veal is made into a fillet by the 
butcher, that is, the bone removed and the meat rolled, the carving is easjr. Cut a 
slice off the entire top that you may have a piece to serve with that from the inside. 
If there is stuiEng skewered in, serve some of this also; serve fat if it is liked. 



The DINtNG-EOOM AND tTS SERVICE. 



365 



in a sirloin the carving is easy. The cuts should be as indicated by the white 
lines; with the tenderloin, also servo liberally of slices from the top. 

Leg of Mutton. — The under, or the thickest part of a leg of mutton, should 
be placed uppermost and carved in slices moderately thin from B to C. If the 
knuckle is asked for, serve it. "\Mien cold, the leg should be carved from the upper 
side. The cramp-bone, considered by some a dainty, is removed by putting your 
knife in at D and passing it around to E. 

In all carving use firm strokes of the knife, so as to make clean cuts. Ladies 
should make carving a study. Their carving knives and forks are smaller than those 
used by gentlemen. All broiled or fried meats are easily carved, but each piece 
should be shapely and, if possible, have some "tid-bit" or fat with it. 

IV. Carving Four- Footed Game. 

Hare, rabbit, squirrel, and that kind of game, should be unjointcd by placing 
the knife properly in, turning it back, thus disclosing the joints, when it may be 
separated into proper pieces. Cut moderate pieces from the shoulder to the end of 
the loin, and divide the head last, by severing from the neck, removing the lower 
jaw, cutting through the division, from the nose to the top of the skull, and laying 
it open. Serve dressing and sauce, or gravy with each piece. 





ROAST TURKEY. 



ROAST PIG. 



Roast Pig. — To carve a roasted pig — which should be sent to table garnished as 
shown with head and ears — sever the pieces as shown in the diagram, divide the ribs 
and serve with plenty of sauce. The ear and jaw are favorite parts with some. If a 
joint is too much, separate it into smaller pieces. 

V. Carving Birds and Fowls, 

Small birds are either divided in halves and served in halves, or served whole, as 
are quail, larks, etc. Larger land game is carved as are fowls. 

Carving Turkey. — A turkey is carved by tirst taking thin slices from the 
breast, as at A B on each side, until the whole breast is removed. Then take off the 
leo-s, dividing the thigh from the drum-stick, and if a disjointer is at hand, use it to 
separate the joint. Take off the wings and separate them at the joints. Serve with 
dressing from C, and gravy. It is not usual to separate the bones of the rack of a 
turkey. A boiled turkey is carved in the same manner as a roasted one, but the 



366 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOIC. 



trussino- being different — the legs are drawn in to tlie body — it is somewhat more 

difficult. 

Chickens.— Barn-yard fowls are carved as is a turkey, so far as removing the 
joints is concerned. Then remove the merry-thought — wish-bone — by inserting the 
knife and passing it under the bones ; raise it, and the separation is easily effected. 
The breast is served generally in slices, with other parts. To divide the fowl, cut 
through the ribs down to the vent, turn the back uppermost, put the knife in about 
the center, between the neck and rump, raise the lower part firmly, but not with 
haste, and the separation is made. Then turn the neck or rump from you, take off 
the side-bones, and the carving is complete. If the fowl is a capon, the breast is 
sliced as in a turkey. Young fowls are generally served without slicing the breast. 







BOILED FOWI^BREAST. BOILED FOWL— BACK. 



PHEASANT. 



PARTEIDGE. 



Grouse, Ducks, Pheasants. — Grouse are carved like chickens. So, also, are 
pheasants, but none of the breast is taken with the wings. The larger ducks are 
carved in the same way. 

Partridges. — If the party is of gentlemen only, the partridges are carved by 
dividing the bird into halves, cutting down through the center, lengthwise. If the 
party is of ladies and gentlemen, separate the legs at the thigh, and divide the bird 
into three parts, leaving the leg and wing on each side together. The breast is then 
divided from the back, the breast either helped whole,, or divided in two, and helped 
with any of the other parts. The cut shows the manner of trussing. 

Pigeons, etc. — The breast of ducks is the choice part, and is served in shoes. 
Teal, widgeon and other small ducks arc sometimes divided into halves, and thus 






PIGEON— BEEAST. 



PIGEON— BACK. 



liOASTED GOOSE 

served. Pigeon, woodcock, and the larger snipe, are sometimes divided into half, 
but generally served whole. The cuts show the manner of trussing pio-eons, both 
breast and back view. 



THE DINING-ROOM AND ITS SERVICE. 



367 



Geese. — In carving geese, follow with your knife the marks shown in the cut, A 
to B; remove the wings, and the legs also if required. The dressing is taken from 
the api'on beyond B. 

VI. Carving Fish. 

All large fish are divided into slices with the fish slice. It requires more tact 
than knowledge. Take thin slices from the back and serve with pieces of the belly. 

Cod. — Cod's head and shoulders is served by taking 
slices across the back down to a line with the fin, serv- 
ing some of the sound, which lines the back and is 
taken by passing the knife under the back-bone; serve 
also some of the liver. 

Flat Fish — Flat fish are served whole, if small. 
The larger flat fish are served in flat slices, serving a 
part of the fin with each piece. If too large to be 
served whole, serve the halves by taking out the back- 
bone. The same rule will apply to all other fish. 

Serve all pan fish whole, if small enough, or cut in halves by dividing along the 
back-bone. Bony fish, when baked, should have the back and belly slit up, and 
each slice drawn gently downward, by which means less bones are served. If there 
is dressing, serve with the fish; also sauce. 




CODFISH— HEAD .VXD SHOULDERS. 





PAN FISH. 



A PIECE OF SALMON. 



Salmon. — In carving a piece of salmon, take thin slices, as shown from A to B, 
and serve with each piece some of the belly taken in the direction from C to D. The 
best part is the upper or thick flesh. 

VII. The Service of the Table. 

Breakfast is and should be one of the pleasantest meals of the day. Here the 
family assemble, if not before, and courtesies and pleasant chat are interchanged 
over the frao-rant coffee, chops and rolls. The linen should be of the cleanest, the 
silver bright, and the china dry and polished. The plates should be hot in winter; 
rolls should be hot, unless cold bread is preferred, and the dry toast just from the 
fire. Buttered toast should be served as soon as it is made. Let there be flowers to 
adorn the table at each meal, if possible. If you have an urn for hot water, place the 
coffee-pot and the tea-pot in front of it, the coffee cups and saucers at your right and 
the tea-cups at the left; the cream and hot milk at the right, the slop-basin and 



368 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

milk-pitcher at the left, and tiic sugar-bowl haiuly. There should be a fruit-plate and 
breakfast-i)late for each i)ers()u. 

Tea is a more simple meal, but none the less pleasant, since it closes the labors 
of the day. Luncheon also is a pleasant meal, because simple and lively with chat. 

Dinner is the stately nieal of the day, unless simply a family meal. It is then, 
one of the most pleasant. In fact, why should not every meal be pleasant, and with- 
out ceremony? Pleasant conversation and plenty of time at meals make digestion 
easy. There is no reason why a meal should be bolted because of the labors of a 
hurraying season. It is bad for digestion, and that is bad both for the temper and the 
health. The farmer, of all the laboring classes, deserves that his table should be 
pleasant to look at, and adorned with tlowers and green things. He has it all within 
himself to make it so. 

VIII. Some Dishes for Epicures. 

We have it from the most ancient authorities that their meals were not dull. 
The household of Job, for instance, would seem to have been hospitable and merry, 
for we read: "His sons went and feasted in their houses, every one their day (birth- 
day) ; and sent and called for their three sisters tOiCat and drink with them." The 
tables, however, probably were not provided with cooked peacock, feathers, tail and 
all. That was a whim of later and more degenerate days, even if of a higher civili- 
zation. The Romans — who were fond of the dish just spoken of and many others 
still more curious, as for instance a pig baked on one side and boiled on the other — 
fed the thrushes destined for their gourmand tables, with tigs, wheat and aromatic 
grains. A French epicure has said that small song-birds should lie eaten the last of 
November, for then the feeding on juniper berries gives their flesh the much-admired 
bitter flavor. So with us, the grouse of Pennsylvania — our "prairie hen" — is supposed 
to be much finer than anywhere else, from the mountain berries they feed upon. 

All wild birds are supposed to be more nutritious and digestible than domesti- 
cated ones, probably because they contain more fibrine and less fat. The same may 
be said of venison. It produces "highly stimulating chyle," hence the digestion is 
easy and rapid. 

IX. Queer Facta about Vegetables. 

Here again, it seems curious that the tables of farmers are not better supplied 
with what they may so easily and cheaply raise. Three great Eoman names came 
from their vegetables. Fabius, the great general, we should call General Bean; the 
great orator, Cicero, was Vice-Chancellor Pea, and the house of Lentilus got the 
name from the lentil. Gray peas were said to have formed the principal refreshment 
at the circus and theater. This refreshment would rather surprise the average circus 
audience nowadays. Instead, we have the familiar circus lemonade, made without 
lemons, peanut and prize-package bawlers. With the fall of the Roman Empire 
vegetables went out of fashion, and with them went pretty much all civilization. 



& 



THE DINING-KOOM AND ITS SERVICE. 



36d 



The Eomans are said to have raised asparagus stems which weighed three pounds 
each. To match this the Jews raised radishes of a hundred pounds weight, and so 
hollow that a " fox and cubs might burrow therein." 

The history of cabbage is curious. The Egyptians deified it, but then they had 



many curious 



gods. 




They took cabbage first at their feasts. The Greeks and 
Romans took it as a tonic after drunkenness. Cato 
thought it a panacea for all the ills of man. It 
was thought to be a specific for paralysis. Hippo- 
crates prescribed it boiled, with salt, for the colic, 
and in Athens it was thought a most excellent thing 



for 



younc 



mothers. Yet it is compara- 



tivel}^ a short time only since cabbage became com- 
mon in England. It is hardly fashionable in the 
United States except raw, and with oysters. 



X. The Use of Napkins. 

Because the great Duke of Wellington was 
obliged to envelop his whole chest in a napkin to 
prevent catching too much of the soup and other 
dishes in his waistcoat, is no reason why clean 
eaters should do so. The place for the napkin — 
except with gluttons, old men and infants — is on 
the lap. The first thing on sitting down to table is 
to unfold the napkin, spread it on the lap, and the 
last thing after dining is to lay it beside the plate or slip it in the ring if there be one. 
When placed in a ring they are simply folded square. There are many fancy shapes 
for folding, but simple styles are preferable. The cuts, B 3 and B 4, show fancy 



NAPKINS FOLDED ABOUT A 
DECANTER. 






FOLDING NAPKINS 



ways of folding, the black lines marking the several folds. C 3 shows the miter 
fold. The decanter requires no exi^lanation. The arrangement will be easily seen 
from the cut, and may be varied in many pleasing forms, to suit vases or other 
table ornaments. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 
DRESS, AND TOILET ART. 



J. DRESS, ANCIENT AND MODERN. II. THE REAL PURPOSE.S OF DRESS. III. CLOTHE ACCORDING 

TO CIRCUMSTANCES. IV. JIENDING CLOTHES. V. ALTERING CLOTHES. VI. THE KIND OF 

CLOTHES TO WEAR. VII. TASTE IN LADIES' DRESS. ^'III. SOMETHING ABOUT COLOR.^IX. 

TOILET-ROOJr AND BATH. X. GARMENTS NEXT THE SKIN XI. THE CARE OF CLOTHES. XII. 

THE CARE or BRUSHES AND OOiMBS. 

I. Dress, Ancient and Modern. 

Wfpi^ classic Greece, and in fact among all polite ancient nations, the form of the 
1*1 wearer gave shape to the dress. In our days clothes too often make the figure of the 
" person who wears them. Among the ancients, a simple piece of cloth was allowed 



1 



to drape itself negligently over the form, now and then disclosing its propor- 
tions. Now it is the art of the tailor and dress-niakcr which makes the fashionable 
man or woman. The one padded and corseted, puffed out here, drawn in there; the 
other a mystery of cotton, whalebone, steel and bustle, beneath which the wearer 
" moves and has her being," sighs, languishes and breathes. In the country, indeed, 
fashion does not go so far. Simple taste may there find exercise. Happy is the 
city man or woman whose taste and wealth allow a few months of natural life in 
the countrj'. 

True Taste in Dress. — The highest art in dress is that which, while conform- 
ing in a measure to the prevailing fashion, exercises taste in the natural adornment of 
the body. It is a sad sight to see suddenly rich people in city and country in gaudy 
and vulgar fineiy ; they deserve only the ridicule they meet in their attempts to ape 
the aristocrats abroad. The real gentleman or lady is never so dressed as to attract 
special attention. Hence the real art of dress, whatever the station, or however rich, 
may be summed up in two words : Unobtrusive simplicity. Almost equally few are the 
words describing the manners of the gentleman or lady. They are simply: Modesty, 
unassuming dignity, and self-possession. 

II. The Real Purposes of Dress. 

The real purposes of dress, beyond that of satisfying the natural instinct of 
modesty and gratifying the universal passion for personal adornment, are to properly 
prevent the loss of animal heat in winter, to facilitate the escape of the animal heat 
in summer, and to protect the person from the extremes of the weather. The reason 
why it is necessary to comply measurably with the demands of fashion, is, that any 
one who departs too far from the general custom in dress, becomes so conspicuous as 
to attract that attention which every right-minded person seeks to avoid. That lady 

[370] 



DRESS, AND TOILET ART. 371 

was perfectly dressed of whom this story is tojd: Having visited a friend, the next 
day the friend was asked by a visitor (not perfect in dress or manners) what she 
wore. " Indeed," was the rci)ly, "I did not notice her dress; only the charm of her 
manner and conversation." A delicate hint to the other, that if asked how she was 
dressed, it would not have been hard to remember. 

No Warmth in Clothes.— The notion that the body receives warmth from the 
dress is altogether wrong. There is no actual warmth in clothing. It is simply its 
power of conserving or preventing the escape of the natural heat of the body that 
makes it seem warm. "With the thermometer at seventy or eighty degrees, but little 
clothing is required. With the thermometer at one hundred degrees, the real science 
of dress is to facilitate the escape of heat by every possible means, as, for instance, 
a free circulation of air. The heat of the body comes from the food we eat. Hence, 
in the summer, heating food should be avoided. Perspiration is the principal natural 
means of reducing excessive heat of the body; and thus the person who works in a 
great heat perspires continuously and violently. If this were not so, the system would 
quickly give way and death ensue. 

III. Clothe According to Circumstances. 

It is not our pui-pose to write a dissertation on fashionable dress. We only pro- 
pose to show something of the philosophy and economy of clothing. The good sense 
of every lady and gentleman will easily suggest what kind of clothes they shall wear. 
The pocket as well as the taste must here be consulted. But yet, it is not so much 
the material, as the manner in which it is made up and worn, that marks the person of 
refinement and sensibility — the true gentleman and lady. A person may be soiled 
with work that brings one in contact with dirt and grime, and yet not be offensive. 
Yet it is a fact, dirt does not stick so easily' to some people as to others — probably 
for the reason that the same impulse towards cleanliness, that prompts bathing and a 
change of dress, immediately the M'ork is done, prevents also undue contact with that 
which is offensive. 

IV. Mending Clothes. 

Many persons have a horror of patched clothes. If patching becomes necessary, 
there should be no sensitiveness upon the subject. We must clothe according to our 
condition in life. The ojiinion of the butterflies and fops who largely make up 
certain phases of fashionable life, is not worth a thought. It is a false presumption, 
that because a person has wealth, he or she looks down on those who are poor. The 
gentleman and lady never do. It is only "cads" and "snobs" who fear contact 
with those who keep the world moving. The world moves by the force of the labor 
that is done. It is those who mix mortar, lay brick and stone, build and finish 
houses, make machinery and utensils, set type and run the printing press, raise the 
provisions that feed the multitude — in short, the thinkers and workers of this world — 
who are the moving power. The mechanic and the manual laborer, as well as the 



372 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

merchant, the manufacturer and the financier, are the machinery which keeps the 
world in motion. The merely wealthy, who spend their lives in idleness, are as 
moths flitting about a candle — necessary perhaps, because the money they spend 
helps to make a market for the products of the workers. But the soiled laborer, 
with patched clothes, if temperate, industrious and honest, performs a more impor- 
tant part in this workaday world of ours. 

Some must wear mended clothes. In fact, there are few sensible persons, how- 
ever rich, but do so in some degree. In making up a dress or suit, reserve some of 
the stuff for the mending that must surely come. If this cannot be done, then select 
the nearest match you can. It is no disgrace to wear a coat of as many colors as that 
of Joseph. It may have been the height of fashion in Jacob's time ; it is not so now. 
But if the gentleman or lady of wealth desire not to attract attention to their dress, 
certainly the gentleman or lady less wealthy should not seek to attract attention by 
the singularity of their patching and darning. 

" A stitch in time " should be the motto. How easy it is in sorting the clothes 
for the wash to make a memorandum of such as require mending, if you cannot 
remember — a button off a garment, a frayed edge or button-hole, a rent, a missing 
string or band, towel to be cut in half and the edges resewed. The clothes being 
rough dried, mend them before starching and ironing. 

V. Altering Clothes. 

In these days of cheap sewing machines the work of making, mending and alter- 
ing clothing is much simplified. Children's clothing requires constant care. Tailoring 
requires considerable strength. Men's clothing is more cheaply bought ready-made 
than it can be made at home. The mending is not difficult. 

Altering Children's Clothes. — Patches may be so neatly inserted as scarcely 
to show. The legs of a child's trousers may be turned by cutting off, and reversing — 
changing right and left — so as to scarcely show. Children's skirts may be altered to 
fit the constantly growing form, letting out the tucks and bands. The material for 
children's suits or dresses may be gotten from the partly worn clothes of the adult 
members of the family. Garments thus made are just as good for the little ones to 
play about in the fresh earth and grass, just as good to be torn by briers and brush as 
new onei. Children need pretty free scope at play. It is healthy ; it is good for both 
brain and muscle. The child who never rolled in the grass, never wanted to make mud 
pies or haul sand on a shingle, who never soiled or made a rent in the dress, never 
made any mark in the world as man or woman. 

VI. The Kind of Clothes to Wear. 

Children are easily kept comfortable if proper care is taken in the materials 
and making of their clothing. That young children should be girded in tight gar- 
ments is absurd. The young girl who is laced together to bring her " form into 
shape," with dresses of the shortest, and whose legs from the knee are co.vered only 



DEESS, AND TOILET ART. 



373 



with thin stockings in winter, for fashion's sake, has as foolish a mother as has the 
boy a father who refuses him flannel in winter, and makes him leave off his shoes and 
stockings in early spring, to " toughen him." That kind of fashion and that kind of 
toughening send a legion of children yearly into premature graves. 

Dress your children comfortably, whatever the material, with light colors and 
thin texture in summer, and bright, warm colors and stout, close goods for winter. 
Keep good shoes and stockings on the feet, and light gear on the head, for it is as 
true now as it was in Franklin's time, that " he who keeps the feet warm and the 
head cool may bid defiance to the doctors." Comfortable, flexible, rather loose hats 
and caps, and strong, well-fitting shoes for the boys; and no tight bandaging with 
belts, stays and garters for the girls. Let them race and run to their hearts' content. 
Nature intended that all young things should do so, to develop and round them out. 
Let those who think that children should act as prim as the maiden of forty, take a 
lesson from the colts, calves and lambs. They are always at play when not feeding 
or resting. It is their education. 

VII. Taste in Ladies' Dress. 

Every lady should know what colors, and shades of color, harmonize with her 
hair, eyes and complexion; and what patterns will be in harmony with her form. 
Ladies instinctively understand this; gentlemen, as a rule, depend upon their tailors. 
To those ladies who are in doubt, we should say, consult your dressmaker or your 
milliner. However costly the material, it should be simple rather than glaring in 
color. Avoid strong contrasts in the colors of the dress. However fashionable a 
color may be, abjure it unless it is becoming to you. A fashion is as often started to 
hide some deformity or peculiarity in a leader of fashion, as for any other reason. 
Adapt new purchases as much as possible to the articles you already have, and always 
let them be in harmony with your height, age, station in life and complexion. 

, VIII. Something About Oolor. 

The strong or primitive colors are red, yellow and blue. Yellow and red pro- 
duce orange by simple union ; yellow and blue produce green ; red and blue make 
purple; orange and green, again, produce olive; orange and purple produce brown; 
green and purple form a slate-color. The cold colors are blue, green and purple. 
The warm colors are yellow, red and orange; olive, brown and slate are neutral 
colors. These are modified by light or shade. For instance, grass which in the 
brio-ht sunshine appears almost yellow, in the shade is a cool, refreshing green. Take 
the three primitive colors, yellow, red and blue. Upon a disk of paper paint the 
lower half blue, the upper right-hand quarter red, and the upper left-hand quarter 
yellow. Fasten this upon any swift-whirling object, as a humming or peg top, and 
they form white. A cold or warm effect is produced by a proper combination of 
these colors, with reference to light. Warm effects are produced with white, yellow. 



374 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



orano-e, red, purple, indigo and black, and their combinations. Cold effects, by 
white, pale j^ellow, yellow, green, blue, indigo and black, and their combinations. 

Table of Colors, — The following table will give a definite idea of color and 
their various combinations. Gray is produced by a combination of white and black. 
The three primitive colors being yellow, red and blue, the first compounds are orange, 
purple and green, and the second compounds brown, slate and olive, as previously 
stated. A careful study of these will show that effects of color in dress and trim- 
mings, corresponds to the exercise of the painter's art. The lady who studies the 
combinations most closely with relation to her own figure, complexion, and color of 
hair and eyes, will produce the most pleasing effect in dress. 



1 is yellow, 

2 is red, 

3 is blue, 

4 is orange, 

5 is purple, 

6 is green, 

7 is brown, 

8 is slate, 

9 is olive, 
1 +4 are yellow and orange. 
1+7 are j^ellow and brown. 
1+6 are yellow and green. 
1+9 are yellow and olive. 
2+7 are red and brown. 
2+4 are red and orange. 



Primitive 

colors. 

First 
compound. 

Second 
compound. 



2+5 are red and purple 

2+8 are red and slate. 

3+6 are blue and green. 

3+9 are blue and olive. 

3+5 are blue and purple. 

3+8 are blue and slate. 

4 + 7 are orange and brown. 

6+9 are green and olive. 

4+8 are orange and slate. 

5+8 are purple and slate. 

5+9 are purple and olive. 

6+7 are green and brown. 

7+8 are brown and slate. 

7+9 are brown and olive. 

8+9 are slate and olive. 



Here we have the three primitive colors, their six pure compounds, and twenty- 
one additional tints, or compounds, by means of the couplets. Take the three original 
colors, put them together, regularly, and study the effect. It will be an excellent 
lesson in color, besides showing what an infinity of tints may be produced. 



IX. Toilet-Room and Bath. 

A LADY writer insists, and very properly, that sC room intended expressly for 
toilet purposes, is necessary to every farm-house, large or small. In cities and large 
towns, a room of this kind is sometimes found ; but in farm-houses and country resi- 
dences, its necessity is very often overlooked. And at the same time, there is no 
reasonable plea why it should be ; for on a farm, more than anywhere else, is such an 
apartment an absolute necessity. When the farmer and his boys come in from the 
field, tired and stained with toil, would it not be refreshing to have a room where they 
could all repair for a comfortable wash, without waiting each for his turn at the 
one basin, standing outside of the door, on the bench? 



DEESS, AND TOILET ART. 375 

Such a room need not be large. A moderate-sized room, fitted up with basins, 
sinks, combs, brushes, towels, hooks or racks for hats and coats, and a glass; these 
are sufficient for ordinary use, and will save many moments of waiting the meal, when 
it is ready. Such a room can be spared in a farm-house, as well as not, and should 
have a door outside. In this same room every working member of the family can 
tidy up, and do it, too, without much delay. If there is no vacant room which can be 
converted to such use, a portion of the wood-house or any adjacent out-building can 
be set aside to this purpose. 

The Bath. — We have said that every house should have conveniences for pro- 
viding a bath. It should be so arranged that hot or cold water may be used, even if 
the hot water must be carried to the bath-tub by hand. Rathing should be performed 
often enough so the skin may be quite free from the odor and effects of perspiration. 
After the bath, the body should be rubbed with a towel rough enough so the skin may 
glow. It is not any more necessary, however, that the human skin be harrowed up, 
than it is necessary that the groom tear a horse's skin to pieces by a brutal use of the 
curry-comb. Thus, if brushes or harsh towels are used, use them gently. 

Care of the Hair. — The scalp should be thoroughly brushed every day with a 
brush stiff enough to reach the skin, so the dandruff may be removed. Have nothing 
to do with nostrums to force the hair to grow, or to remove the hair. Cleanliness is 
the best hair tonic; depilatories are dangerous. If your hair is thin, use false 
hair as little as possible. There is no more certain cause of baldness than constantly 
wearing masses of false hair. Dyeing the hair, also, to produce some fashionable 
shade, is injurious in the extreme. AH hair-dyes are poisonous, and the constant 
growth of hair at the roots requires a constant renewal of the dye. As a I'ule, nature 
has given hair that harmonizes with the complexion and eyes. Add all the helps to 
nature you please, but do not attempt to interfere too decidedly with it. If a woman 
is unfortunate enough to have a beard, or rather, if she considers this a misfortune, 
depilatories will not remove it. Nothing but the patient use of the tweezers will 
eradicate a beard — often, even this will not succeed perfectly. 

X. Garments Next the Skin. 

As a rule, woolen should be worn next the skin, where the object is quickly to 
pass off the perspiration. It is the best summer shirt, and the coolest, for working- 
men, but it need not be as thick as a board. Cotton increases the warmth and 
perspiration, and has the property of retaining discharged humors, and passing them 
back into the system. Wool promotes perspiration, but by its gentle friction keeps 
the skin healthy, without clogging the pores. Linen gives a sense of coolness, but a 
fictitious one ; it soon becomes damp. It holds the perspired matter, and the air 
strikino- the moist surface, chills the body. The action of flannel is to excite perspira- 
tion, quite necessary to the person at work, but it passes it through the material to 
the outside, where it is dissipated freely. Thin soft flannel for summer, and thicker 
flannel for winter, should therefore be the rule. 



376 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



XI. The Care of Clothes. 

Never brush clothes when wet. They should first become perfectly dry. Then 
lay the material flat, and brush thoroughly the right way of the cloth. Before 
brushino-, rub out spots of mud. Remove all hard grease with the nail or the point 
of a knife, then cover the place with some absorbent paper (a piece of a blotter), 
and run a hot iron over it; change the paper, and repeat the operation until all the 
o-rease is absorbed. If the grease has soaked in, soft soap or ox-gall, or both, should 
be employed to remove it. Cloth suits that have become somewhat threadbare, are 
restored by second-hand clothes dealers, in the following manner: The cloth is first 
soaked in cold water for an hour or more. It is then laid flat on a board and rubbed 
the way of the cloth with a teasel-brush or partly worn hatter's card. The clothes 
are then hung up to dry, the nap properly laid with a hard brush and dressed smooth 
with a hot iron. 

XII. The Care of Brushes and Combs. 

Hair brushes and combs should be regularly cleaned. A solution of bicarbonate 
of potassia or carbonate of soda is good for cleaning brushes, and if they are rinsed 
in bay rum afterwards, so much the better. If not, use pure soft water. Combs 
may be cleaned by washing in soft water and soap. A weak solution of carbonic 
acid, or of sulphate of soda, is also useful for cleaning brushes; but always thoroughly 
dry and air them after washing. The horrors concealed in a damp, dirty hair-brush 
can only be revealed by the microscope, but these minute germs are a virus from 
which scalp diseases originate and are disseminated. Hence never use the brushes 
and combs common to the guests of hotels and boarding-houses. The best tonic for 
the hair is frequent brushing with a dry brush, and without dressing for the hair. If 
anything is to be used as a dressing, take a little dilute bay rum, let the hair be hand- 
rubbed dry, and afterwards dry brushed. 




A. SUBSTANTIAL COUNTRY HOME. 



DEPORTMENT AND SOCIETY. 



SOCIAL FORMS AND CUSTOMS. 

SELF HELP, RULES OF ETIQUETTE ETC. 

DIRECTIONS FOR LETTER-WRITING, ETC. 

COMPLETE SOCIAL GUIDE. 



i(¥lemoranlium 



DEPORTMEl^T AND SOCIETY. 



CHAPTER XXX. 
PHILOSOPHY AND PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 



I. THE PHILOSOPHY OF ETIQUETTE. II. ETIQUETTE AN AID TO SUCCESS. III. WHAT IT INCUL- 
CATES. IV. ETIQUETTE OF DINIXG— HOW MANY TO INVITE. V. DINNER COSTUMES. VI. IN- 

rOEMAL DINNERS. VII. HOW TO EliCEIVE GUESTS VIIL AT THE TABLE. IX. HOW TO 

SERVE A DINNER. X. FAMILY DINNERS. XI. A FEW USEFUL HINTS. XIL TABLE USAGES; 

WHAT TO DO AND WILVT TO AVOID. XIII. WINES AT FORMAL AND OFFICIAL DINNERS. XIV. 

SENSIBLE HINTS FOR DINNER GIVERS. XV. AFTER DINNER. XVL BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 

XVII. LUNCHEON— INVITATIONS AND SERVICE. XVIII. ETIQUETTE OF DRESS AND CONVERSA- 
TION. XIX. THE GOLD FN RULE XX. THINGS TO AVOID. XXI. CALLS. XXII. GENERAL 

ETIQUETTE OF CALLS. XXIII. EVENING CALLS XXIV. VISITING CARDS. XXV. NEW YEAR'S 

C^iLLS. 

i^ I. The Philosophy of Etiquette. 

liipiHEKE is a philosopliy in all the requirements of good breeding, whether in the 
W& etiquette of the table, the street, the call or in the discharge of other social 
^^^ duties and pleasures. The requirements which polite society demands of its 
votaries are not mere arbitraiy rules, but will be found to be invariably the 
result of a careful study of the greatest good and pleasure of the greatest number. 
Take, for instance, a very gross and marked example: etiquette requires that the food 
shall be borne to the mouth on the fork and never on the knife. It is, evidently, 
most unclean, and, therefore, disagreeable, to see a person thrust a knife into his 
mouth, and exceedingly trying to delicate nerves to see him in continual danger of 
involuntarily enlarging his mouth by an awkward slip of the knife. 

If you have ever eaten next to a left-handed person at a crowded table, you need 
not be told of the philosophy of the rule that every one should, at least, eat "right- 
handed." 

What is true of these is also true of all the other demands of etiquette, and he 
is unwise as well as boorish, who will not adapt himself to custom in such particulars 
after ascertaining what the usages of good society are. 

II. Etiquette an Aid to Success. 

Some pretend to think that these observances are useless, but we venture the 
assertion that if two persons, with equal intellects and advantages of person and 
society, start in life, he who conforms to the decencies of life — for reasonable eti- 
quette is nothino- more — will advance himself with double the rapidity of the one who 
considers etiquette a bore, picks his teeth at the table, uses his napkin as a handker- 
chief, and his knife when he should use his fork. 



380 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

III. What it Inculcates. 

Or course, foppishness is not inculcated, but strict cleanliness and perfect pro- 
priety of demeanor are, and he who enters society should be willing to pay that 
amount of deference to the wishes of others. He who feels it too great a bother, 
should wisely resolve to keep himself in strict seclusion, and not suliject himself to 
the observation and ridicule which will most certainly be excited by singularity and 
awkwardness of behavior. 

So true is this, that in this age of the world the plain and ordinary rules of 
etiquette have become a necessary part of education, and we find deportment a 
branch of study taught in all finishing schools. 

How many have suffered almost torture from bashfulness occasioned by ignor- 
ance of what are the correct things to be done in certain contingencies, or from an 
awkward unfamiliarity with the requirements of custom and society. It is to relieve 
all such embarassments that we here condense and present in their simplest form, the 
rules of etiquette pertaining to every social custom ; making a brief but comprehen- 
sive and complete code of the laws of society. 

IV. Etiquette of Dining— How Many to Invite. 

Invitations to a formal dinner are usually issued from two to three days to a 
couple of weeks before it is to occur, and the card of invitation should bo at once 
answered, either by an acceptance or a " regret," couched in proper and becoming 
terms. We give some forms of both in their proper places. 

1. The success of the dinner depends upon the cook and caterer, but the truest 

pleasui'es of it, 

" The feast of reason and the flow of soul," 

depend greatly upon the tact and judgment of the host and hostess. 

2. Pleasant peojile must be invited, and a proper number brought together — 
neither too many nor too few. If there is a large crowd, acquaintance progresses 
more slowly, and it is more diflicult to select in such numbers the persons best suited to 
cause a feeling of genial good humor, or, as the French aptly express it, honhommie. 

3. On the other hand, if the party is loo small, it will lack the projDcr element 
of diversity, without which it is apt to sink into monotonous insipidity. 

4. From six to fifteen (never thirteen, since the superstitions of some ])eople 
concerning that number should be consulted) make a party combining all of the 
necessary advantages. 

5. In regard to the number thirteen, it may not be generally known that, until 
the close of the Bourbon dynasty in France, there were certain persons who made a 
living by acting as diners-out, to fill up any parties which from accident or other 
causes were found, on sitting down to the table, to consist of this unlucky number. 
These trieziemes, as they were called, were men of culture, wit and accomplishments, 
and were always ready at a moment's notice to make up a party to the number of 
fourteen, receiving therefor a stipulated wage. 



PHILOSOPHY AND PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 381 

V. Dinner Costumes. 

1. If an invitation to a formal dinner is accepted, it is expected that the guest 
will ;.[)pear in the regulation "full dress," which consists of black waistcoat, trowsers 
and coat, with white gloves and tic. 

2. The coat must be of the swallow-tail pattern. White waistcoats were hmg 
worn with this costume, but the indications are that they will be discarded even in 
summer. 

3. At a dinner party a gentleman is allowed to wear richer jewelry than would 
be considered correct on any other occasion. But few, however, avail themselves of 
this latitude, and the only essential requirement is that the costume should be clean 
and well brushed. 

4. Patent leather boots are never proper, but very low shoes of this material 
and black silk socks are fashionable. 

5. The costume of a lady should be elaborate, fully as much so as for a ball, 
and she is expected to wear her richest jewelry. The dress should be of silk, or of 
some thin white fabric, and fashionably made. The hair, dressed; the gloves, 
delicate in color and perfect in fit; and the fan, either match or contrast with the 

color worn. 

VI. Informal Dinners. 

1. A Sunday dinner, or an informal invitation, does not require full dress 
either for lady or gentleman; though for either, dark, neat clothing should be worn. 

2. The costume of the lady should be demi toilette. 

3. For the gentleman, a frock-coat will do well in most parts of the United 
States. 

4. It is veiy important to reach the house to which you have been invited at 
the proper time. If you call too early, your hostess may not be ready to receive; if 
too late, you commit the unpardonable rudeness of causing the dinner to lose its 
freshness, and the other guests to wait. 

5. Ten to fifteen minutes before the appointed hour is about the proper time 
to reach the house. 

6. The very sensible rule now obtains never to wait the dinner for a single 
guest, so if you are the solitary exception to promptness, it should cause you no 
annoyance to find the rest at dinner. 

VII. How to Receive Guests. 

The hostess, before the arrival of the earliest, should make a last survey of 
dinin<T-room and parlor to see that all is arranged in order, and then, accompanied by 
the oTown members of her family, wait in the parlor to receive the guests. 

1. The room must be neatly and tastefully arranged, well lighted, and in win- 
ter, well warmed. 

2. The welcome should be pleasant and cordial, the lady advancing slightly to 
receive each guest as announced. A formal stiffness should be avoided, and should 



382 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

either the dinner or the guests prove tardy, the defect should be atoned for by pleasant 
and divertino; conversation, not a trace of annoyance being allowed to become visible. 

3. If the dinner is ultra formal, a tray containing cards is handed around 
amono- the orontlemen, each card containing the name of a gentleman and that of 
the lady he is to escort in to dinner. 

4. These cards are sometimes enclosed in envelopes and left on a tray in the hall, 
or handed to the gentlemen, by the servant, as he is announced. 

5. In less formal parties the hostess or host pairs off tiie couples. Each guest 
should be introduced to those with whom he or she may be unacquainted. 

VIII. At the Table. 

1. On going in to the table the host leads the way with the most distinguished 
or eldest lady, the hostess follows last with the gentleman who is most entitled to be 
honored. 

2. The host places his escort at his right, and this order is followed with all the 
guests; the ladies sitting always to the right of the gentlemen. 

3. When all have reached the table, they stand at their designated places until 
the hostess seats herself; then the other ladies immediately follow, and their escorts 
then take seats. 

4. There should be no observable difference in the time of the seatino- of the 
two sexes, but the lady having taken her chair, should be followed immediately by her 
escort. 

5. In passing the various dishes, the servants begin at the lady upon the right of 
the host, ending with the hostess; while those serving the other side of the table 
begin with the gentleman seated to the right of the hostess and end with the host. 

6. As soon as seated, guests remove their gloves, and lay over them their 
napkins. 

7. The napkin, it is almost useless to say, is never to be used as a handkerchief, 
or tucked, as a child's bibb, into the collar of the coat or waist-coat. 

8. Unless raw oysters are provided, soup is always the first course. If it is not 
relished, a sip or two may be taken, or it may, without any breach of etiquette, be 
left untasted. 

9. Of soup, or of fish, which forms the second course, no one should ever take 
the second plate. 

10. It is not necessary to wait until all are served before beginning to eat. 

11. In a formal dinner all are helped by the servants, who places the portion 
before each. 

12. Sauce should never be poured upon any article of food; if you wish it, the 
footman or servant helps you with a sauce-ladle. 

13. Never call for any particular part of a dish, but being asked, do not hesi- 
tate to state your preference. 



PHILOSOPHY AND PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 383 

14. Never suffer your plate to be helped to a dish of which you do not know 
the nature ; it is best to ask modestly and plainly what it is, as no one is supposed to 
be a chef de cuisine, and familiar with all dishes. 

IX. How to Serve a Dinner. 

Every dinner may not be grand, but no matter what its cost, it can be served in 
such a manner as to impress all the guests favorably. Table and room should be 
handsomely decorated, and if it is possible to obtain them, flowers should adorn both 
room and board. The glass should be brilliant, the silver and cutlery well polished, 
and cloth and napkins fresh and white. Creme or ecru cloths and napkins, which 
have began to come into favor, are used only for breakfast, luncheon or cold suppers; 
never at a formal dinner-table, with its broad glare of light. 

Servants, Carving, etc. — l. Servants should be well trained, and everything 
go off smoothly, and without vexation or nervousness on the part of host or hostess. 

2. The fashion denominated service a la Russe, but which is really of French 
origin, relieves the host of a very unpleasant duty ; all of the carving being done by 
one of the servants, before the joints, roasts, etc., are brought to the table. 

3. Where the menu, or bill of fare is in vogue, the guest is thus notified in ad- 
vance what to expect, and those who have preferences are enabled to await their 
appearance. 

Order of Dishes. — l. After soup comes the fish, then the entrees, or made 
dishes; and next comes the turkey, beef, lamb, or other piece de resistance. Where 
raw oysters are served they are placed, opened, but in one side of the shell, upon the 
plates before the guests enter the room, and on their removal the soup is served. 

2. Game, puddings, jellies, etc., are next in order. 

3. Soups are frequently placed on the table, the tureen before the lady, or, if 
there should be two kinds, one before the host and the other before the hostess, to 

serve. 

4. If there are two soups, there should be two kinds of fish. If only one of 

each, the soup should be placed before the hostess ; the fish, in its turn, before the 
host. 

5. It is perfectly correct for the gentleman occupying the post of honor to 
relieve the hostess of helping the soup. 

6. Side dishes should not be put upon the table, but should be handed around. 
After these have been removed and the plates changed, the fowls and meats are 
brought in, in the order mentioned. 

7. Fowls are placed before the hostess, heavy meats before the host, to carve. 

8. Game should be placed before the gentleman, the pudding before the lady 
of the house, to serve. 

9. Cheese precedes the dessert, which is passed in the following order: First, 
ices; then fruits, etc. After which the servants leave the room. 



384 . TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

X. Family Dinners. 

1. At family dinners and chance invitations, there should be no attempt at 
show. The dinuci' is supposed to bo in a great measure an impromptu affair, and 
nothing is more out of taste than to deluge a guest with apologies. 

2. At affairs oi this kind, serve to the guest or guests both soup and fish, fowl 
and meat. 

3. In carving the fowl, give to each a piece of the white and black meats. Add 
to each plate dressing, and, if so requested, a small portion of the gravy. 

4. The carver should stand up when carving, and should not hack up the meat 
into small fragments. 

5. Vegetables, sauces, etc. should be passed cjuickly, yet quietly 
G. If a clergyman is present he should be asked to say grace. 

XI. A Few Useful Hints. 

1. Never place together husband and wife, near relatives, or members of the 
same profession, as in such cases the almost invariable tendency of such neighbors is 
to "talk shop." 

2. Always endeavor to have a nearly equal number of each sex, as tnese are 
always found to be the most pleasant parties. 

3. Probably the poorest of all policies is to secure some lion or distinguished 
person for your party, hoping thus to make it a brilliant affair. Either your lion is 
talkative, thus boring and silencing the other guests, or he is moody, sullen and iso- 
lated in his o;randeur, when he is sure to cast a sloom over all the others. In either 
case the dinner proves a failure. 

4. Never permit wrangling, argument or heated discussion. 

5. All politics and religion should be tabooed subjects, and if the guest should 
so far foi'get himself as to give way to contention, the host or hostess can, by the 
exhibition of a little tact and judgment, lead him off, by degrees, from his hobby, by 
dextrously asking his opinion of some other matter, or by engaging him on a different 
topic, thus allowing him time to cool off and see his blunder. 

6. Neither host nor guest should look vexed or nervous at any blunder of the 
servants. Above all things, neither can afford to rebuke or criticise them. 

7. Be punctual, not only in arriving, but also in being ready to rise with the 
other guests, and do not prolong your leave-taking unreasonably. 

XII. Table Usages— What to Do and What to Avoid. 

1. Having removed your gloves, if it is a formal dinner party and you have 
them on, and taken your napkin, sit perfectly erect and moderately close to the table. 

2. The posture should not be stiff and constrained, but easy and natural, and 
should be maintained until you are served and begin eating. 

3. When eating soup, hold a piece of bread in your left hand and your spoon in 
your right, and sip noiselessly from the side of the spoon near the end. 



PHILOSOPHY AND PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 386 

4. JSTever put the point of the spoon into your mouth. 

5. Do not cut your food into bits ready for eating, as if you had but a limited 
time m which to eat, but cut off what you desire at the time and carry it to your 
mouth with your fork. 

6. Never use a knife, under any circumstances, to convey food to the mouth. 
This is perhaps the most quickly noticeable, as well as the most disgusting, of all table 
blunders. 

7. Remember that the napkin is not intended as a handkerchief, nor the hand- 
kerchief as a napkin. 

8. No well-bred person will ever pick his teeth at the table ; it would be fully as 
cleanly and decent to trim and clean the finger-nails 

9. Neither will he use his handkerchief at the table, except in the most modest 
way and without the slightest noise. 

10. While it is not necessary for any one to wait until others are helped, there 
should not be the slightest haste or awkwardness in eating. 

11. Bread must neither be bitten nor cut; it should be broken. 

12. At breakfast, or where such are provided, never drink from your saucer ; 
wait until your tea, coffee, or chocolate, is cold enough to be taken from the cup. 
Never sip it from your spoon. 

13. Some very eccentric persons raise the cup in the saucer by taking hold of 
the latter, while others bend down to the table and sip from the cup without raising 
it. These may be classed with those persons who use the napkin as a handker- 
chief, pick their teeth at the table and eat with their knives, and who sin through 
excessive ignorance of good breeding. 

14. Place, at breakfast, your egg in the egg-cup small end downward, chip off 
a portion of the shell and season and eat by scooping from the shell. 

15. Never hesitate about taking the last piece of anything passed to you; it is 
a poor compliment to your host to suppose he has not made ample provision. 

16. Only among the Hottentots and Bushmen is smacking the lips, and making 
other unseemly noises while eating, considered correct. 

17. Wine should be sipped slowly, not swallowed at a single draught. 

18. Toasts and healths are out of fashion. 

19. Hold the glass by the stem, not the bowl. 

20. Port and sherry, not port wine and sherry wine, are correct terms in speak- 
ing of these beverages. 

21. Vegetables should be passed and taken singly — two kinds should never 
appear on the waiter at once, though the plate may be helped to the two kinds which 
may accompany each course. 

22. Plates should be changed after each meat and pastry. 

23. Pork never figures among the dinner dishes. 

24. Cut the meat upon your plate as cleanly as possible from the bones, but 
never hold the latter in your fingers to eat from. 



386 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

25. Never use your owu knife or fork to help yourself to butter, or to any dish 
that may be passed or placed near you. 

2('. A plate should never be c)\'erloaded. 

27. Never play with knife, fork, spoon, glass or food, nor move about in your 
seat. 

28. Never appear to be making a selection of any food passed to you — take 
the first that comes to hand. 

29. Never talk while the mouth is full, and at no time monopolize the conversa- 
tion ; remember good listeners are always appreciated — never laugh nor talk loudly. 

30. Never ask to be helped a second time to any dish ; if it is passed to you 
unsolicited, you may help yourself. 

31. Never tilt your chair, slouch around in it, nor lean your elbows on the table. 

32. Never tilt plate, glass, nor dish, to drain the last morsel. 

33. Do not thank, and above all things do not, as some would-be fashionables 
sometimes do, apologize to the waiters for troubling them — they are paid for their 
service and are merely performing their duties, for which no man expects thanks. 

XIII, Wines at Formal and Ofl&cial Dinners. 

At a formal dinner wine is deemed necessary with each course. The best plan 
is to place upon the table, between each pair of guests, "caraffes," or open decanters 
of white glass, filled with the mild red wine, which is always the one most used. At 
each plate four or five wineglasses, of different shapes and sizes, are placed ; for each 
wine has both bottles and glasses appropriate to it alone. With the raw oysters the 
servant fills the glasses with chablis, or other white wine. After the soup, sherry is 
served; with the fish, the white wine again; with the meats, champagne, or other 
sparkling white wine. After the meats and pastry a higher grade of claret (red wine 
from Bordeaux), Burgundy, port, or a liqueur may be given. 

Red Wine Served Warm. — All red wines must be served warm ; say as 
warm, or a little warmer, than the room in which you sit. Cold red wine has no 
flavor and is a barbarism. It is better to have it too warm than too cold, and if there 
is any danger of this, place the bottles in a tub of lukewarm water. White wine 
must be served cold; sparkling wines, ver}^ cold indeed. Never put ice in a wine- 
glass ; it is simplj^ ridiculous, spoils the flavor of the wine, looks awkward, and shows 
want of knowlege of the world. 

These Occasions Rare.— What has been said about the variety of wines ap- 
plies only to formal dinners, in houses where the host is rich, and the servants can be 
relied upon to carry out a formal dinner without making it a burlesc]ue. Such houses 
are rare in America, and the occasions rarer, except for people whose oflicial position 
calls for this class of entertainment. 

Native Wines. — There are now made in this country many wholesome wines. 
The use of these, by people accustomed to drink wine, not only helps to digest the 
food, but destroys the desire for strong spirits; a daily wine-drinker seldom cares for 



PHILOSOPHY AND PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 387 

whiskey. A good native red-Mine, wiiicli should bo had at a cost of not more than 
twenty to thirty-tivc cents per quart, is tliought by many to be an acquisition to the 
family dinner table, both in helping digestion and in promoting temperance among 
the growing members of the family, by destroying the taste for strong drink. 

XIV. Sensible Hints to Dinner-Givers. 

If you ask friends to dine, do not try to provide anything very different from 
your own daily meal. If you do, mistakes will be made and the dinner be stiff. 
Have it of good material and well cooked, in ways well understood by you and your 
servant. 

1. Never mix the courses. Let your soup be taken away before anything else 
is brought. If you have fish, the plates, knives and forks must be changed before 
the meats. 

2. Never put a number of articles of food in the same plate. One vegetable, 
or, at the most, two, may be served. 

3. Never put a number of discordant messes befoi'e a guest. A heaped-up 
plate and half a dozen little plates or saucers full of varied viands placed before one 
at the same time are nauseatina; and vulgar 

4. Let your dinner be simple unless your servants are trained to serve elaborate 
courses, and can do so w'ithout a fault. 

5. A good soup, a well-cooked and well served joint of meat, a fowl, and some 
fruit or cheese, with a bottle of good, sound, native red wine is far better than an 
attempt at a dinner in many courses, unless the latter is served and managed by an 
expert. 

6. Never hire waiters for a dinner. Never borrow linery for your table. Both 
are vulgar shows. Serve what you have as well as you can. 

7. Try to have your table service good every day. It costs nothing but a little 
time and that is well spent. Then, when you invite a friend, it will be much easier 
to have a dinner successful. You cannot dine every day in your shirt-sleeves, eat 
with your knife, and have your dinner served as if to fill a swill -bai'rel, and then, on 
occasions, be fine. Something will betray the daily custom. 

XV. After Dinner. 

1. In Eno-lish society, when the dinner is over, it is usual, at a signal from the 
hostess, for the ladies to rise and retire to the drawing-room, while the gentlemen 
remain to indulge in wine, politics, etc. 

2. This habit, which has the advantage of giving to the sexes half an hour's 
time between a long and heavv dinner and the evening's entertainment, has never 
become popular in America, where the custom is for all to rise together, and adjourn 
to the drawing-room. 

3. A cup of tea or coffee is handed around, after which the conversation becomes 



3SS TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

general until the time for leave-taking. Music is appropriate and pleasant during 
this time. 

4. Each truest should remain two or three hours after dinner. 

5. Within a week after attending a party of this kind, each guest should make a 
call upon his hostess; to delay it beyond two weeks is inexcusable. 

XVI. Breakfast and Supper. 

Customs of Different Countries. — Breakfast is not so often made a meal of 
ceremony and invitation in America as in England ; owing to the later hours M'hicli 
prevail in the latter country. On the Continent, especially in France and the southern 
countries of Europe, "breakfast" is a substantial meal of meat, wine, etc., taken at 
from eleven to twelve. 

Do not therefore suppose the people are late risers; the custom is to take simply 
a cup of coffee and a bit of bread on rising, and to breakfast four or five hours 
afterwards. Many persons in the large cities, such as the brokei's and others, often 
finish the usual day's work in this time. 

Dinner, which differs in French households from breakfast more in having soup 
than in any other particular, is generally eaten at six, and is over in time to go to the 
theatre at eight. Pai'ties begin in Paris at about midnight, or after the opera, and 
the doors of many of the large public balls open at that witching hour. 

Many who rise earlj', take a nap after the breakfast, and, in Spain, this is done 
by all classes ; shops are closed and the streets deserted for a couple of hours for the 
" siesta " — but then the Spaniard begins his work before day. 

In England, family breakfasts are generally of cold meats, and the dinner comes 
at eight in the evening, the ladies having a cup of tea in the afternoon, at about five 
o'clock. 

In the cold countries of the North, especially among the Scandinavians, more 
meals are taken — often as many as five, at which meat is served — and these do not 
correspond to our meals or those of Southern Europeans, enough even to bear the 
same names. 

Indeed, the hours for eating must be regulated by the hours of employment. If 
one is in the whirl of fashionable life of a great city, and nightly out until four or 
five o'clock in the morning, the heavy meal of the da}^ must come late, and a light 
supper at midnight becomes a necessity. If you are a hard-working farmer, living in 
the country and going to bed between nine and ten, the meal hours must correspond. 

We often read of great changes in the dinner hour ; that Henry the Eighth 
" dined " at ten in the morning. So he did. But until very modern times the heavy 
meal at close of day was called supper; they eat it in England to-day at nearly the 
s.ame hour, and call it dinner. " What's in a name? " 

Supper Parties. — Suppers are now given at balls and parties, after the opera, 
etc., and it is rare to invite a guest to supper alone. An invitation to a dancing or 
card party is generally understood to include a supper of some kind, although it is 



PHILOSOPHY AND PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 389 

never mentioned. Such terms as "an oyster supper," "a champagne supper," etc., 
are never heard among decent people. Oysters and champagne may be given, but 
attention is not called to the fact any more than one would ask a guest to "a meat 
and claret dinner" when these were to be given. In fact, the terms mentioned should 
be restricted to the vulgar haunters of bars and billiard rooms. 

Common Sense Hours. — Meals should be timed by common sense. It is 
probably more healthful to take a rather light breakfast, which, in a malarious country, 
should always include coffee. At noon a more substantial meal is in order, but as, in 
this country, several hours of hard work are to follow, it should not be too heavy, 
and a quarter or half an hour's rest after it is time well spent. 

The dyspepsia so common in this country comes from taking, as a habit, more 
food than is necessary, and then working with head or body immediately afterwards. 
Digestion requires repose and most people eat far more than nature calls for. 

The best time for a heavy dinner is after the hard work of the day is over and a 
couple or more of hours can be given to comfortable rest, reading, conversation or 
light amusement. Eat slowly, not too much at any one meal, take small pieces which 
can be easily masticated, and do not go directly from the table to violent exercise or 
severe brain work. Make your dinner (or evening meal, by whatever name you 
choose to call it,) a pleasant, social affair, which tempts you to linger over it; not a 
place to bolt, in haste, a certain amount of unmasticated food, and then liy from. Cul- 
tivate the beauties and the social aspects of the meal daily, and it will prove not only 
a delight, but a source of health as well as of civilization. Then your dinner parties 
to strangers will need only a little more care than the daily event, not a contrast which 
^ upsets the household. 

XVII. Luncheon— Invitations and Service. 

1. This is a strictly orthodox affair, and to provide a suitable luncheon is almost 
as great a test of one's catering powers as to triumph in a dinner. It is true that it 
is usually considered only a light repast, made up of elegant little trifles, but amongst 
fashionable people, the table is often dressed and garlanded as if for a ceremonious 
dinner, and a great variety of dishes are sei-ved. 

To this affair, invitations are sent out, which may be autographic, or the visiting 
card, with date and hour added, will answer, thus: 

Mrs. John Smythe. 
Luncheon at 12% Wednesday, Oct. 9th, '83. 

How to Serve. — Some have the luncheon brought to the table in courses, but 
this adds a stiffness and formality not to be desired. The most pleasant way is to 
have the dishes upon the table, and to dispense with the aid of servants. 

The luncheon at a bridal party is usually more formal ; on such occasions it is 
customary to darken the room and light the gas or wax candles, by whose aid the 
feast is eaten. 



390 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Boquets presented to each guest with their napkin, and vases containing rich but 
not gaudy flowers are a great help to this meal. 

The dress for this occasion is, of course, a street costume, but this should be fresh 
and elegant. The observances at luncheon are not rigidly formal, and, in fact, when 
well managed, this is one of the most delightfully pleasant and informal of all social 
meetings. 

XVIII. Etiquette of Dress and Conversation. 

1. Chesterfield, accounting for the benefits that accrue from a polite demeanor 
rightly said, that but few possessed or were judges of science, art and grand achieve- 
ments, but that all understand and appreciate grace, civility and politeness. 

2. To be ignorant of the customs and usages of society will cause one to become 
constrained and bashful, and blunders and awkwardness are the result. 

3. All this may easily be avoided by the study and acquirement of the few 
rules necessary to our guidance through all the shoals, rocks and quicksands of igno- 
rance, awkwardness and ill-breeding. This being the case, is it not worth our while 
to make ourselves familiar with the canons of polite society, since it is with that class, 
if any, that we should desire to mingle. 

XIX. The Golden Rule. 

True politeness is merely the practical observance, in small matters, of the 
"golden rule:" Not to offend the tastes of another; not to annoy him ; not to place 
self before our neighbor, are the bases of all etiquette. 

2. State your opinions plainly and mildly. Never talk loudly, nor make broad 
sweeping assertions. 

3. Never offer to back up an opinion with a bet. Of course no gentleman will 
be guilty of the rudeness of an oath. 

4. Always show a deference to age. 

5. Never contradict any one flatly ; always beg leave, smilingly, not sarcastically, 
to differ with them. 

6. Never anticipate a slight, nor be ever ready to take one. 

7. Above all, never give way to abusive argument or a quarrel. 

8. Loud laughter and slang phrases are the wit and humor of the jockey and 
the clown. No lady or gentleman can afford to use them. 

XX. Things to Avoid. 

1. The most despicable figure in society is that of the coarse, purse-proud man 
or woman, who depends solely upon money for standing and consideration. Next to 
these, if not in the same rank, is the vulgar creature who knows everything. 

2. Never volunteer an opinion, nor trj^ to monopolize the conversation. 

3. It is not necessary to be foppish in order to be neat. The fop is as far at 
one extreme as the slouch is at the other. 



PHILOSOPHY ANJJ PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 



391 



4. Dress quietly, but lut the material be ricli ; never dress loudly, and avoid 
much jewelry. 

5. Never wear iilatcd ornaments nor imitation nenis. 

G. Never whisijer in eomi)an\', nor attemiit to monoiiolizc the attention of a 
person. , ,, 

7. Abstruse subjects, i)rofessional topics, religion and politics should be avoided. 

'-The shoi)," as the Eno-Hsh desiiiiiate business affairs, should never enter into social 

conversation. ",. 

' . jitn^ltfiyii 

8. Indulsje l»ut seldom in ((notation; never in inuendo, insinuation'or ijunning;. 

9. Avoid all satire and sueerino;— the devil is ijainted always with a sneer upon 
bis lips. 

10. Never tiatter, nor volunteer advice. 

11. Never talk scandal. 

12. Never laugh at your own jokes. 

13. Never correct an error, misquotation nor other mistake of any one. 

14. Never interrupt a c(mvcrsation without go(xl cause, and always ;q)ologize for 
so doing. 

15. To inveigh against religion, or the nationality or sentiments of any one, is 
in the very worst of taste. 

16. Sit or stand at your ease; avoid lolling, hitching about, playing with your 
chain or other part of your clothing. 

17. Be cool, quiet and collected; avoid haste and worry. 

18. The drawing-room comedian is the silliest of the silly. Buffoonery should 
be left to professional clowns. 

19. Never exaggerate nor use highly-colored adjectives. 

20. Never attempt to " show off." 

21. Never bring in such sentences as " When I was in Eome," or " One day in 
Paris," etc. 

22. Never make yourself the hero of the adventures you relate. It is homely but 
wise advice never to " blow your own bugle." 

23. If your opinion is asked on some subject with which you are familiar, give it 
modestly, not as though it were infallible. 

24. The practical joke is both low and cruel; no gentleman or lady would think 
of indulging in one. 

25. Never use any foreign language, not understood by the company, unless 
there should l>e some one of that nation present who does not understand English. 

26. Never, as it is termed, " take the word out of any one's mouth." Be 
patient, and in du<! time, no doubt, he who is speaking will find the word or phrase 
for which he is seeking. 

27. Never utter a remark that you think may offend any other of the company. 

28. Avoid all profanity and coarse language. 

29. Avoid appealing to others to prove your assertions. 



392 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XXI. Calls. 

1. Modern fashion declares a call made between noon and five o'clock, a morn- 
ing call, though, in some cities, calls are still made as early as eleven o'clock. 

2. In extreme cases, however, strict formality is not adhered to. 

3. A formal call should not exceed fifteen or twenty minutes. These are always 
morning calls. 

4. Evening calls are neither so short nor so formal. 

5. A gentleman is expected to make a call: 1st. The day after escorting a lady 
to an entertainment — -the call being to inquire after her health. 2d. When congratula- 
tions and condolences should be tendered, as after a marriage or a death. 3d. "When 
he desires acknowledging hospitalities received elsewhere. 4th. When he desires to 
hand letters of introduction he may have received. 5th. Within a week after receiving 
an invitation to a house, even though it was not accepted. 6th. When a friend has 
returned from a long absence. 7th. When he desires to acknowledge any courtesy. 

XXII. General Etiquette of Calls. 

1. The gentleman retains his hat and gloves in his hand, during his call, which 
must be brief. 

2. A friend should never be introduced without previous permission. 

3. Ladies making a morning call, generally keep on their gloves, and also 
retain their parasols. 

4. When callers retire, the hostess rings for a servant to see that they are 
attended to the door. 

5. A hostess may retain any fancy work she may be engaged upon, but of 
course anything heavy is out of the question. 

6. The callers should always be provided with cards, which should be sent up 
to insure accuracy in the name, and also to leave in case the lady of the house should 
not be at home. 

7. When retiring after a call, do so in a gentle, graceful manner, not abruptly 
upon the entrance of other callers. 

XXIII. Evening Calls. 

1. An evening call should under no circumstances be made later than nine 
o'clock, and should not, under ordinary circumstances, exceed an hour. 

2. If a gentleman's first call, he will retain hat and gloves. Intimate friends 
only should exceed an hours' stay. 

3. On the second call, guests lay aside their hats and gloves on the invitation of 
the hostess; when, if solicited, they may spend the evening. 

4. Calls should be returned within a week, especially if made by a stranger. 

5. Those who settle in a new locality expect the first calls, which must be made 
as soon as their house is supposed to be in order. 



PHILOSOPHY AND PRECEPTS OF ETIQUETTE. 393 

6. On mere ceremonial calls, the lady usually leaves her own and husband's 
cards. 

7. "Not at home" is the usual excuse alleged when it is inconvenient to receive 
a call. 

8. A guest admitted must be seen, no matter how inconvenient. 

9. An informal caller should not be detained while the hostess dons an elaborate 
toilet; they should be received in a morning dress. 

10. No call should be so made as to come in conflict with any meal-hour of the 
person called on. 

11. All customs bow not only to "great kings." but also to the visitor from a 
distance, who may not have the time to consult all of the ceremonies in calls, etc. 

12. If any acquaintance has a visiting friend, you should call, and it is the duty 
of the acquaintance and friend to return the call. 

13. Only during long protracted illness, may lady friends visit a gentleman. 

14. On recovering from a spell of sickness, all calls that have been made should 
be returned. Leaving your card will answer. 

15. After attending any entertainment at a house, leave your card there within 
a week. If unable to attend, call earlier to express regrets. 

16. Immediately on hearing of a bereavement, leave your card, and call within 
a week. 

17. A gentleman is received, by the hostess slightly rising and bowing; a lady, 
by her rising and advancing towards her. 

18. When a lady retires, if there be no other guests, the hostess should attend 
her to the door. 

19. If others are present, she may only be able to rise and bid her adieu. 

20. A gentleman receives his friend by meeting him at the door, cordially 
shaking his hand, and assisting him with his overcoat, hat, etc. 

21. During visits, strictly of ceremony, the gloves are not removed. 

22. Be easy and natural while calling. Do not fidget, nor hitch about on your 
chair. 

23. While waiting for the hostess, never try the piano, examine the cards, pic- 
tures, etc. Such curiosity is contemptible. 

24. In leaving, make no excuse, such as: "Well, I must go." "What a time 
I've stayed," etc. Merely rise gracefully, say "good-bye," "good evening," or 
" good day," and quietly withdraw. 

XXIV. Visiting Cards, 

1. The styles in these are legion. They should bear no titles except such as 
are intended to make them descriptive. "Miss," "Mrs.," "The Misses," are of 
course permissible; but "Prof.," "Hon.," "Esq.," are tabooed. It is even doubt- 
ful if a physician should use the " Dr.," or the " M. D.," on a visiting card bearing 
his name and initials. 



394 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



2. Army and naval officers in service are allowed their titles on their cards, as 
Capt., etc.; though it is better to have only the name and the initials, "U. S. A.," 
or "U. S. N.," below the name. 

3. The eldest girl of a family is " Miss Jones," "Miss Brown," or whatever 
the name may be; the others are called by their Christian names, with this title pre- 
fixed, as " Miss Mary," " Miss Bella," etc. 

4. It is correct, when several sisters use a single card, to use " The Misses Hol- 
comb," " The Misses Dye," etc. 

XXV. New Year's Calls. 

1. Are generally made by two, or even more gentlemen together, and it is the 
occasion for renewing their acquaintance with lady friends. 

2. Cards with emlilematic designs, and "Happy New Year," etc., are left. 

3. These calls should be very short. 

4. Refreshments are almost invariably offered, but may be accepted or not. 

5. Of course no gentleman will suffer himself to become intoxicated upon such 
an occasion. 

6. Overcoats, gloves and hats should be removed in the hall, where a servant 
should be in waiting to assist the caller. 

7. It is usual in city circles to send the card from the hall to the drawing-room, 
and to follow it after removing Avraps. 

8. Many ladies receive with friends either at their own homes or at those of 
their friends. 

9 When receiving away from home, notification should be given. 

10. Cards must be left with every lady receiving. 

11. A gentleman introduced on this occasion is not privileged to call again with- 
out special invitation. 

12. A New Year's call may be made as early as ten a. m., but never later than 
nine p. m. 

13. The two or three daj's succeeding the New Year, ladies devote to calling 
among themselves, and hence they are often called "ladies' days." 

14. For receiving calls, halls and rooms should be warm, and the reception 
room decorated. These rooms are usually darkened, and the gas lit. 



CHAPTER XXXI. 
ETIQUETTE OF THE STREET, BALL, CHURCH, ETC. 



STREET DEPORTMENT. IT. GENERAL KULES OF STREET DEPORTMENT. III. SPECIAL RULES OF 

STREET DEPORTMENT. IV. ETIQUETTE OF INTRODUCTIONS. V. SALUTATIONS. VI. BIDING 

AND DRIVINC;. VII. BALL AND PjVETY ETIQUETTE. VIII. THE SUPPER, DRESSING ROOMS, ETC. 

IX. SOME GENERAL RULES OF PARTY ETIQUETTE. X. EVENING PARTIES— TUK CONVERSAZIONE- 

XI. CONCERTS, THEATRICALS, ETC. XII. PARLOR LECTURES. XIII. CHURCH ETIQUETTE. 

XIV. ETIQUETTE OF VISITS. XV. RULES FOR GENERAL GUIDANCE XVI. ETIQUETTE OF THE 

lUNERAL. XVII. ETIQUETTE OF THE CHRISTENING — GOD-FATHER AND GOD-MOTHER— PRES- 
ENTS, ETC. 

I. Street Deportment. 

i^HE first recocfnition should coiuc from the lady. 

2. Alwaj's raise the hat with the hand farthest from the person saluted. 

3. Merely touch or but slightly raise the hat to a gentleman friend, unless 
of high rank, advanced years, a clergyman, a person in some manner distin- 
guished, or accompanied by a lady. 

4. A gentleman should never stop a lady in the street, though a lady may ven- 
ture to stop a gentlenmn. 

5. A gentleman should always carry a lady's packages and bundles, even the 
smallest, but should never volunteer to carry her parasol 

■ 6. He should never smoke while escorting a lady or speaking to one. 

7. Gentlemen friends meeting should slightly raise the hat with the left hand, 
while the right hand is extended and shaken. 

8. In shaking hands it is boorish to hold the hand for any length of time. 

9. To o-ive a violent jerk to the arm or to violently wring another's hand is 

very rude. 

10. Only a dude or simpleton extends two fingers to be shaken. 

11. Always o-ive to those feebler, or more aged than yourself, or those of 
exalted position, the inner side of the w.alk. 

12. Always accommodate your gait to that of a lady or an aged or infirm 

person . 

13. Do not rush violently or swing the arms and body ungracefully in walking. 

II. General Rules of Street Deportment. 

1. A LADY is not expected to recognize a friend across a street. 

2. Neither ladies nor o-entlemen should stare about them or indulge in loud talk 
or laughter on the street or in a public conveyance. 

3 Never call to a person across a street. 

[395] 



396 TWENTIETIi CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

4. Never turn and look after a person. If you must see them again, it is better 
to turn baek and go in the direction they are going. 

5. No lad}' ever was, nor ever could be, guilty of the small and contemptible 
meanness of sneering at the dress of another, or of turning around to gaze super- 
ciliously at it, nor make uncomplimentary remarks about it. Only a fishwoman or a 
pai-venue can condescend to such a thing. 

6. Do not cat in the street; it can never be done gracefully. 

7. Never nod to a person in a store; if you wish to sj^eak to them, go into the 
store. 

8. When accosted by a lady in the street, never show signs of impatience ; let 
her intimate the termination of the interview by a slight bow. 

9. Never attempt to force your way with a lady through a crowd. If politely 
requested, the throng will always make way. 

10. Always introduce any friend who may be Avith you when stopped on the 
street. If spoken to and stopped by a lady, all of the party of gentlemen with whom 
you are walking should pause and raise their hats, and the one with whom you are 
side by side should be introduced. 

11. Gentlemen should always uncover to ladies when sjioken to on the street. 

III. Special Rules of Street Deportment, 

1. Never call a friend out from a party he may be with for a long talk. If 
necessary to talk with him, apologize to the others, and make your interview brief. 

2. Never discuss private or personal matters in a crowd or on the street. 

3. Any gentleman may offer a lady his umbrella in a storm, but if a stranger 
it should be pleasantly yet firmly declined. If an acquaintance, it may be accepted, 
but should be promptly returned. 

4. In a 'bus or street car, a lady's fare should be passed. Most gentlemen will 
give their seats to ladies unable to obtain one, but no lady will accept without thank- 
ing the donor, who should bow in return. 

5. Any stranger may assist a lady, an old person, or an invalid, who is in 
difficulties. This assistance is repaid with thanks, and is no basis for acquaintance. 

6. If the M'aj^ is clear, allow the lady to precede you; if any dilBculty or dan- 
ger is in the way, the gentleman should take the lead. 

7. No gentleman after rendering assistance to a .strange lady, will attempt to 
force his acquaintance upon her. 

IV. Etiquette of Introduction. 

1. Never introduce persons unless there is a mutual desire on their part for an 
acquaintance. 

2. Never presume to advise an introduction by saying " you ought to know him 
or her," "I know you'd like each other," etc. This is silly and presumptuous. 

3. Gentlemen are always introduced to ladies, and inferiors to superiors 



ETIQUETTE OF THE STREET, BALL, CHURCH, ETC. 397 

4. If gentlemen or ladies are of equal rank, introduce the younger to the older. 

5. " Mr. Smith, permit me to introduce to you my friend, Mr. Jones;" " Mr. 
Brown, allow me to present to you Mr. Johnson," are simple but sufficient formula 
for the introduction. After this formula is gone through with, the names are pro- 
nounced in a lower tone in a reversed order. 

6. When introducing anyone to a lady, your bow should show more oeference 
than in presenting a friend to a gentleman. 

7. In introducing a number, as at a reception, it is only necessary to call the 
most honored name first, and join the others together as: " Allow me to present 
Mr. Smith, Mr. Jones, Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson," at the same time indicating each 
with a slight bow. Pronounce names clearly to avoid mistakes. 

8. Every introduction does not entitle one to a continuance of the acquaintance 
so formed. If either party desires, the acquaintance may be dropped. 

9. Where the French fashion prevails, you are at liberty to address, without an 
introduction, any person you maj- meet socially at the house of an acquaintance. 
Being there is a sufficient guai-antee of the respectability of each. 

10. The slightest intimation from a lady that an introduction is not desirable, 
should suffice, as an explanation might prove embarrassing. 

11. Ladies are given the privilege of dropping ball acquaintances, or those 
formed on any festive occasion. 

12. It is permissible, in introducing a celebrity, to mention his distinction, as 
"Mr. Lowery, the artist." 

13. You may drop acquaintances made in calls, unless the person should be a 
visitor to your friend from some other place, in which case he or she must be treated 
courteously during the stay. 

14. A guest should be inti'oduced to all callers. 

15. A person should always be introduced by title as "Dr. Blank." 

16. Two friends with different parties may stop for a short time and converse 
without introducing the other members of the company. Should any one be intro- 
duced, under such circumstances, recognition is not afterward obligatory. 

17. If in the house of an acquaintance you are introduced to a person with 
whom you are at enmity, acknowledge the presentation courteously, but with reserve, 
as though an utter stranger. 

18. Promiscuous introductions in large assemblies are not correct. Guests may 
introduce each other in large parties ; in small ones it is the privilege of the host and 
hostess. 

19. A married lady may shake hands with a gentleman when introduced, but a 
single lady should not. 

20. No lady should dance with a gentleman to whom she has not been intro- 
duced. 

21. Never introduce disagreeable or disreputable pei'sons to any one. 

22. Always raise vour hat Avhen introduced on the street. 



398 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



23. You are entitled to call upon the President of the United States or the 
Governor of your own State \d any [udjlie reception. In this case hand your card to 
the master of cerenK)nies. For a })rivate interview it would be better to obtain the 
aid of some official, as Kepresentative or Senator. 

24. In calling upon the Governor of any State but your own, it would be best 
to carry letters from some well-known person. 

25. In order to be jiresented to the Queen, in England, or at the court of other 
European sovereigns, it would be necessary to obtain the aid and advice of the resi- 
dent jNIinister from the United States, at that court, who will give proper credentials 
and also inform j'ou of the ceremonies and requirements necessary. 

V. Salutation. 

1. Gentlemen friends, meeting, bow and shake hands. A married lady may 
shake hands with a gentleman, or an old gentleman with a young lady. 

2. In shaking hands do not embarrass yourself and others by waiting to draw 
off your glove ; merely' ask to be excused for not removing it. Never receive your 
friends in your own house with yoiiv gloves on. 

3. If a lady gives no sign of recognition, a gentleman must pass without salu- 
tation. 

4. Eeturn the bow of any respectable person, male or female, whether ac- 
ouainted or not, unless you know it to be some one seeking to force an acquaintance. 

5. Ladies rarely find it necessary to stop a gentlemaii on the street; gentlemen 
never presume to stop a lady thus. 

6. A 3'oung unmarried lady can have no pretext for speaking to any gentleman 
on the street, unless it be a near relative. A bow is sufficient for other acquaintances. 

7. In making a bow, or lifting the hat, there should be an eas}', graceful mo- 
tion ; only the dude, or the cad, affects angularity, and jerks off the hat with a rapid 
downward motion, similar to that of an organ-grinder's monkey. 

8. A lady is required, in her own house, to extend her right hand to all gui-sts. 

9. On horseback, the lady bows but slightly to friends; the gentleman, holding 
I'eins and whip in the left hand, must raise his hat to ladies, and also, slightly, to 
gentlemen friends. 

10. The gentleman precedes the lady going up stairs; the lady descends first. 

11. In entering a room, a gentleman must carr}^ his gloves, hat, etc., in his left 
hand, that his right ma}' be free to offer to his friends. 

12. Boisterous merriment, coarse conversation , loud talk and lauofhter, aro-u- 
ment, anger and eccentricity, should be left to grooms and stable boys. 

VI. Riding and Driving. 

In riding, we will suppose both lady and cavalier to be familiar with the exercise. 

1. In this case, having an appointment to ride with a lady, the first care of the 
gentleman must be to see her safely mounted. It is usual to have the lady's horse 
sent by a groom some minutes before the appearance of the escort. 



ETIQUETTE OF THE STREET, BALL, CHURCH, ETC. 399 

2. Ill mounting, the groom should stand at the head of the kidy's horse; the 
escort at his shoulder, while we will supi)ose the lad}' at the left side of the animal, 
with her skirt held by her left hand, her right holding to the pommel of the saddle. 

3. The escort stoops and holds out his left hand, in which the lad}' places her 
foot, and springs and is lifted to the saddle. 

4. "When the foot has been placed in the stirrup, her robe properly arranged and 
her seat firmly assured, the gentleman must lose no time in mounting, and then they 
start. 

5. You ride on the lady's right side, never touching her rein, unless requested 
to curb her horse. 

6. Accommodate the gait of your horse to that of hers. Be vigilant that no 
accident occurs. 

7. In dismounting, the lady sees that her skirts are not held bj' the pommel of 
her saddle, and giving her left hand to the gentleman (who takes it in his right), 
places her foot in his left hand, and is gently assisted to the ground. 

8. In the carriage, those most honored ride with their faces toward the horses; 
seats with back to the horses are for the less distinguished, the younger and servants. 

9. Ladies enter first, but gentlemen leave the vehicle first. 

10. In assisting ladies to enter or dismount, be careful that their dresses do not 
become soiled by the wheels, steps, etc. The place of the footman is to open and 
close doors, but not to assist the ladies. 

11. Always drive close to the sidewalk, and then " cut " or turn the front wheels, 
so that there may be a larger space for ingress and egress. 

12. In America, the driver sits to the right, and vehicles also turn to this direc- 
tion to avoid others. 

13. It is not only silly, but a breach of etiquette for a lady, when frightened, to 
grasp the arm of a gentleman driving. 

VII. Ball and Party Etiquette. 

1. For a ball or a ceremonious party, cards should be issued from ten days to 
three weeks in advance. If it is to be a large or biilliant aifair, three weeks would 
be best. 

2. Do not overcrowd your rooms, especially at a ball, and have as few " wall- 
flowers," or guests who do not dance, as possible. 

3. The ball-room should be well lighted, but not too warm. The floor should 
be well waxed, or, when it is an impromptu affair, the carpets should be smoothly 
covered with sail-cloth or canvas. 

4. The rooms should be tastefully ornamented. Flowers, foliage, plants, etc., 
being always in order. The music should be slightly elevated, and, if possible, hand- 
somely screened off from the body of the room. 

5. For a ball of any pretensions, there should be a programme of dances, so 
that the ladies may keep a list of their engagements. 



iOO TWENTIETH CEN'TURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

G. The music, even in the most hastily gotten-up affairs, should never consist 
of the piano alone. A violin, cornet, or other instrument, at least, should be added. 

7. In number, there should be at least eighteen dances, and never more than 
twenty-four. 

8. There should always be a supper, or refreshments of some kind. 

9. The pleasures of the evening usually begin with a lively march ; then a 
quadrille, waltz, etc. 

VIII. The Supper, Dressing-Rooms, etc. 

1. The supper is usually eaten standing, and ices are generally to be had, even 
after the supper is over. 

2. Good beef tea, made strong, is admirable at balls, and should always be given 
in cold weather. 

3. The meats, fowls, etc., are ready carved. Delicious salads should always be 
provided, and strong coffee. Wine may be given. 

4. A dressing-room for ladies, and one for gentlemen, should be provided with 
all the necessaries for making the toilet. 

5. When guests arrive, they should be met near the door of the reception room 
by the hostess, who should receive them cordially. 

i). Other members of the family should busy themselves in introducing the 
guests, finding partners foi' those unprovided, and in other ways seeking to make the 
affair enjoyable to all. 

7. A gentleman cannot refuse an introduction to a lady at a ball. 

IX. General Rules of Party Etiquette. 

J.. If unacquainted with a dance, a gentleman should never attempt it, unless 
invited by a lady to do so, and even then should acknowledge his ignorance. 

2. The will of the gentleman must be completely subordinated to that of his 
partner, should she for any cause decline a dance, or having begun it, desire to retire, 
he must cheerfully acquiesce. 

3. In conducting a lady to her place in a set, or to her seat after a dance, offer 
the arm respectfully. 

4. A lady has the right to decline introductions at pubHc balls. An introduc- 
tion, even at a private ball, does not necessitate after-recognition. 

5. Any excuse offered by a lady is valid. 

6. A gentleman who has been declined as a partner should not ask any lady in 
hearing to dance in that set, but may go to another part of the room and do so. The 
reasons for this are obvious. 

7. If a lady refuse a dance, for which she has no prior engagement, and no 
good excuse, a gentleman should not ask her again to honor him. 

8. If a lady pleads only that she doesn't like the particular dance about to 
begin, the next may be asked for. Should she plead excessive fatigue, she should 
not dance again, as her inconsistency would have the appearance of falsehood. 



ETIQUETTE OF THE STREET, BALL, CHURCH, ETC. 401 

9. Never attempt " fancy " ,stei)s in dancing, and do not dance too well — that 
is, with the air of a dancing master. Walk gracefully through quadiilles, and in 
waltzing, do so with a quiet grace unmarked by effort. 

10. The formula : " May I have the pleasure?," " Allow me the pleasure," or, 
" Will you honor me? " is all that is necessary in asking for a dance. 

11. It is the duty of the escort to attend the lady at the end of each dance, 
to hold her gloves, fan, boquet, etc., to see that she does not enter or cross the ball- 
room alone, and to provide her with partners. 

12. Unmarried ladies should restrict themselves to two dances with any gentle- 
man; more are apt to cause remark. 

13. Never occupy the seat next to a lady you do not know ; if you cannot obtain 
an introduction, do not embarrass her by taking that seat. 

14. If a lady has no escort, and the hostess has made no arrangement for one 
to see her to supper, the gentleman who danced with her immediately preceding 
supper, will escort her to that refreshment. In entering the supper-room, do so 
slowly and gracefully; avoid all appearance of haste. Ladies should not remain 
more than ten or fifteen minutes at the table. 

15. The escort, if invited to enter the lady's house, on the return from the ball, 
should, under ordinary circumstances, politely decline, but should call the next day. 

X. Evening Parties— The Conversazione. 

Of these social gatherings, conversaziones are of the most pleasant. They are 
intellectual gatherings, where amusement and instruction go hand in hand. The con- 
versazione is usually given in honor of some distinguished guest, who is either a 
literary man, a warrior, explorer, or other celebrated personage. All the guests 
should be introduced, and the conversation should be general, and may be interspersed 
with music, dancing, etc. On the Continent of Europe, a recital of some interesting 
incident, the reading of a poem or essay, or the singing or execution of some brilliant 
piece of music, often forms part of the programme. The guests should be carefully 
selected for some distinction, as above suggested; in fact, the endeavor usually is to 
make them typical gatherings, in which there shall be a mutual interchange of ideas. 

XI. Concerts, Theatricals, etc. 

A VEEY pleasant way of passing the long winter evenings is the organization of 
neighborhood talent into amateur theatrical and concert companies. In these com- 
binations, it is best to appoint a permanent stage manager, from whose casts or distri- 
bution of parts there shall be no appeal nor sulking. 

1. Where there is no permanent manager, that duty usually falls upon the host 
or hostess of the house in which the party may be assembled. 

2. Farces, one-act, or at most, two-act comedies and burlesques are the best 
selections, as they require little stage room, and not over one change of scene or 
costume. 



402 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

3. The amateur company may be merely a neighborhood affair, or it may give 
representations in neighboring towns. It is not only a very pleasant, but a highly 
useful amusement, leading to a study and appreciation of the highest grade of literary 
productions, and educating a taste for the best and most classical works. 

4. Li<dit suppers should be provided at the places of meeting, and between the 
acts there may be intermissions for promenading, handing around cakes, ices, etc. 

5. Loud bravoes, clapping the hands boisterously, and other rude methods of 
applause, arc to be avoided. 

G. A code of bj'^-laws and a schedule of lines for non-attendance, failure to 
rehearse or to know parts, etc., should be ado^jted. 

XII. Parlor Lectures. 

The etiquette of tea parties, lawn parties, picnics, and out-of-door parties gen- 
erally, is everywhere well known, but the parlor lecture is just coming into vogue in 
polite society, and certainly no better mode of spending an evening to intellectual 
advantage was ever devised. 

1. Two plans obtain: First, the members of a community, or those of them, 
at least, who compose the more intellectual class, organize a society, any of the mem- 
bers of which are supposed to Ijc in readiness to respond to an invitation to lecture 
before the societ_y, upon some subject to be chosen by the lecturer 

2. The society meets at the residence of one of its members every week, or if 
deemed better, every two weeks, and as there is a lecture at every meeting, there is 
room for considerable interchange of ideas, and every member in turn gives the 
results of his best thought and study. 

3. A lady member may contribute a song, the rendition of a brilliant piece of 
music, or a drawing, painting or piece of art needlework for admiration and criti- 
cism. Recitations, ecjually with original efforts, are acceptable. 

4. The second method is to invite from neighboring towns or cities lecturers 
eminent in some special line of research, and assemble the society in the parlor of 
one of its number to sfive him audience. The expense is trifling, when divided among 
a number, and the instruction and entertainment is beyond computation in dollars and 
cents. 

5. At these entertainments it is usual to provide a table and a lamp with an 
argand shade for the lecturer, who sits at the table and reads from his notes, or 
delivers his lecture in a colloquial tone. 

6. The lecturer, if employed especially for the occasion, should be treated just 
as any other guest; he has contributed his time and talent in exchange for your money, 
and occupies no menial position. 

7. The lecture should begin at eight and not occupy more than two hours in its 
delivery. Music is not necessary at these entertainments. 

8. The company should show the greatest respect, even should the subject 
prove uninteresting either in selection or delivery. 



ETIQUETTE O]? THE STllKET, BALL, CHtTRCH, ETC. 403 

9. Whispering and all remarks will cease from the beginning of the lecture. 
At its close any questions pertaining to its subject may lie propounded to the lecturer. 
No chairman or other presiding officer is necessary at these lectures. 

XIII. Church Etiquette. 

Going to church is so general an English and American custom, that almost 
every one attends some place of worship. It is a matter of etiquette: 

1. To arrive in time, so that the rest of the congregation will not be disturbed 
by a late entrance. 

2. Never intrude into a pew without an invitation. To do so is a trespass upon 
private jiroperty. 

3. On entering a strange church, advance a slight distance up the aisle, and 
wait until the usher, or some pew-owner, invites you to a seat. 

4. In escorting a lady to a seat, walk beside her until the pew is reached, then 
permit her to enter, and follow. 

5. If the services have not begun, grave and decorous conversation, in a low 
tone, is not improper; but there should be no whispering, giggling nor laughing. 

6. "When the services have begun, no remarks sliould be made. 

7. If the forms, ritual or worship seem singular, there should be no merri- 
ment; remember that the Golden Rule is the basis of all etiquette; act as you would 
wish a stranger to act in the church of your choice. 

8. If you should offer a seat in your pew to any one, do so in silence; a slight, 
graceful gesture will convey the invitation as plainl}^ as words. A hymnal and prayer- 
book should be passed to the stranger. These should be open at the song or service 
for the day. 

9. The hat, cane, umbrella, etc., should be taken into the pew and carefully 
placed so that neither cane nor umbi'clla shall fall and make a noise, which is apt to 
distract the attention of all. 

10. When persons are entering, do not turn around to get a view of them. 

11. Never bow across the church to any one after services have begun. 

12. No matter how bored you may be by a long, dull and tiresome sermon, 
never yawn or leave the church. Your sole recourse should be in not again attending 
when the same minister officiates. 

13. If obliged by necessity to leave church, do so as gently and noiselessly as 
possible, and never during praj^ers. 

14. At the conclusion of a funeral service, wait until the relatives and nearest 
friends of the deceased have made their exit before leaving. 

15. Only dudes and other vulgarians and simpletons gather at church entrances 
and in front of places of amusement to watch those who enter or come out. Such 
o-apino', ill-bred curiosity only befits the boor, and no gentleman should be guilty 
of it. • . - . . 



i04: TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XIV. Etiquette of Visits. 

1. Informal and geiicrtil invitations should seldom, if ever, be accepted. Jl 
your society is desired, a specific invitation will be given, and this should always be 
in writing. 

2. Never by hints, or in any other manner, seek an invitation. A letter to 
friends or relatives, telling them that you will come, if convenient, is the height of ill- 
breeding, since their only excuse to avoid an invitation, without seeming as ill-bred as 
yourself, must be sickness. No matter how great a bore a person may be, these self- 
invitations are usually honored, though always regretfully. 

3. No one but a thoroughly stupid, selfish and vulgar person, will be guilty of 
writing a letter or making a remark, that will force such an invitation. 

4. It is best to follow the usual course in these matters. 

5. A written invitation should be given, to which a reply, also in writing, should 
be returned acknowledging, with thanks, the invitation, and naming a day upon which 
you will arrive. 

6. Your host should then meet you at the depot and escort you to his house, 
where, after meeting the members of the family, you will be shown to the room that 
has been prepared for you. Here you will make your toilet, put on fresh clothing, 
and be ready to descend to the meal which is next announced. 

7. If it is late at night when you arrive, or your journey has been a long or 
tiresome one, the hostess will suggest early retiring. 

8. Breakfast will also be later than usual, that you may have the opportunity of 
getting plenty of rest. At breakfast it is usual and proper that the host should give 
you an idea of the daily routine, the hours for meals, etc. 

XV. Rules for General Guidance. 

1. Your friends, and also the friends of the family, will be invited to meet you 
while in the city, and you will be taken to church, concerts, theaters, and whatever 
amusements there may be. 

2. Of course, you are not expected to adopt the religion of your host, nor he 
yours, while you are visiting him. Each may attend different churches; but it is his 
duty to accompany you to your church, and to call for you after services. 

3. Ladies may assist each other in little household duties while on a visit; but 
in volunteering and accepting such light service, judgment must be used. The time 
of the guest, as well as the room allotted to him, must be sacred. 

4. Should sudden illness occur in the family, you may either volunteer to assist 
in ministering to the sufferer, or, if you can be of no assistance, it is best to take an 
immediate leave. Especially is the latter best, if the disease should be contagious. 

5. Make no demurrer to calls and amusements suggested by host or hostess, and 
never show that you are bored or dissatisfied if the calls should be upon dull people, 
or the amusements not the most entertainino-. 

o 

6. If you have no opportunity to return hospitality, small presents to the hostess 



ETIQUETTE OF THE STREET, BALL, CHURCH, ETC. 405 

and her children should be made, not as a payment, but as a complimentary testimo- 
nial of the pleasure you have received. 

7. Never, to use a homely phrase, "outstay your welcome." Kemcmber that 
your entertainers are not only put to additional expense while you are with them, but 
that their mode of life is disarranged and you are occupying a great deal of their 
time. 

8. The announcement of your departure should be made, under ordinary circum- 
stances, at least a day ahead. 

9. While expressing regrets that you must leave, a well-bred host and hostess 
•will not annoy you with solicitations to stay. In these matters it is taken for granted 
that the guest has a proper idea of the length of time he or she should remain. 

XVI. Etiquette of the Funeral. 

Even Death, the grim visitor that waits alike upon all, demands a special etiquette. 
When the loving circle of the home has been broken, and one of its members lies in 
the icy sleep of death, the grief of the remaining members demands that some dear 
friend shall step forward and make all the arrangements for the funeral. 

1. This friend, especially if inexperienced, should call to his aid the undertaker 
who is to have charge of the funeral, and whose advice in regard to the ceremonial 
will be valuable. 

2. If possible, announcements of the death and the time and place of burial 
should be made in the local papers, and an invitation extended to all friends to be 
present. 

3. Invitations, written or printed, may also be sent out, of which forms will be 
given in the proper place. 

4. It is usual for friends to call only to offer their services or leave cards while 
the funeral preparations are being made. 

5. It is best that the friend in charge should receive all calls, so as to relieve the 
afflicted family from intrusion. 

6. To prevent ordinary calls, as soon as the death occurs, crape should be affixed 
to the door or bell-knob or knocker. 

7. If an old person, the crape should be black and tied with a black ribbon; if 
a child, white, tied with a white ribbon, and if a youthful person, or unmarried, black 
crape tied with white ribbon is usual. 

8. The coffin should rest in the parlor, and it is here that the guests will 
assemble. Services may be held there, or at the church. 

9. Guests must expect no attention from the members of the family. Some 
relative or chosen friend will receive them upon the sad occasion. 

10. If there is to be a sermon in church, the coffin will be placed in front of 
the altar, and should be covered with a black cloth. 

11. After the services an opportunity will be given to friends to take a last view 
of the dead. This should be done in solemn, decorous order; the congregation mov- 



406 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

ing in one direction and passing by the cofEn. The halt should be short. There 
should be no conversation. 

12. When the services are concluded, the coffin will be borne to the hearse by 
pall-bearers, who' have been selected from the nearest friends of the deceased. 

13. The clergyman should now enter a carriiige, and precede the hearse to the 
cemetery. 

14. Immediately following the hearse is the carriage bearing the bereaved 
family; relatives and friends follow in the order of their relationship or friendship. 

15. The friend in charge should see the family to their carriage, seat them, and 
close the door. He should also arrange the order of precedence, and attend to other 
matters. 

16. At the gate of the cemetery, it is usual to dismount from the carriages and 
follow the coffin, on foot, to the grave. 

17. Flowers used to decorate the coffin and the room, Avhere the dead is lying, 
should be white. If an aged or married person, the ornament on the coffin is usually 
a cross ; if young or unmarried, a wreath. 

18. Societies of which deceased was a member may be notified through the 
papers to attend, or an invitation to the president of each society for its presence is 
sufficient. 

19. If the death has occurred from any contagious disease, the fact should be 
stated in the funeral notice, and the invitation to attend omitted. 

20. In England it is usual for the most deeply afllictcd to remain at home, and 
in this country excess of grief often prevents their attendance at the grave. 

21. Cards should be left for the bereaved family the week following the funeral, 
and in the second week brief calls may be made. 

22. From these calls of condolence persons themselves lately aflSicted, or in 
mourning, may be excused, since they might only renew their own grief. 

XVII. Etiquette of the Christening. 

1. When a child is to be baptized, near friends or relatives are chosen to act as 
sponsors or god-parents. 

2. If it is the first child in the family, the preference is usually given to the 
grandfather on the father's side and the grandmother on the maternal side. Should 
this not be feasible, the other grandparents have the next preference. 

3. For other children, and often for the first, other sponsors are chosen. 

4. The child, clothed all in white, and held by its nurse, is carried into the 
church, or if at home, into the room, followed by its sponsors, side by side, but not 
arm in arm, and they in turn are followed by the parents; or the father alone, if the 
mother should be unable to attend. 

5. When the question, "Who are the sponsors for this child?" is asked, the 
god-parents simply bow, and the ceremony i)rf)ceeds. The nurse stands near the 
baptismal font, the child upon her left arm. U]}on her right stands the god-father; 



ETIQUETTE OF THE STREET, BALL, CHURCH, ETC. 



401 



the god-mother, upon her left. The piircnts are next to them, and behind are the 
rehrtives and friends in their order of reUitionshij). 

(3. Light refreshments may be passed after the ceremony, if performed in the 
house; if in church, the guests usually disperse to their homes. 

7. God-parents are expected to make to baby as rich presents as are in keeping 
with their means, and they are supposed to look after its future welfare, both tem- 
poral and spiritual. 

8. No one should volunteer as a god-parent, unless he or she knows that the 
offer will be gladly received. 

9. It is sometimes appropriate for persons of great wealth or high station to so 
volunteer, when they have good cause to suppose that only the superiority of their 
position prevents their being invited. 




TEN-RQOM HOUSE. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 
ETIQUETTE OP THE WEDDING, THE ROAD AND THE CAPITAL. 



I. ETIQUETTE OF WEDDING ENGAGEMENTS. II. THE WEDDING. III. THE CEREMON"^ IN CHURCH. 

IV. WEDDING RECEPTIONS. V. ETIQUETTE OF THE ROAD— TRAVELING. VI. LADIES TRAVELING 

—THE ESCORT. VIL GENERiiL RULES FOR TRAVELING. VIII. ETIQUETTE IN WASHINGTON. IX. 

ETIQUETTE OF SHOPPING. X. SPECIAL RULES OF DEPORTSIENT. XI. GEORGE WASHINGTON'S 

ONE HUNDRED RULES OP LIFE GOVERNMENT. 

.^1, I. Etiquette of Wedding Engagements. 

|T is now the vile and outrageous fashion to announce engagements in the society 
items ,of thejoress. This fashion is an European innovation, entirely unsuited 
to this country, and is of doubtful merit, except among people so great as to 
have their marriages a matter of public importance. 

2. When an engagement has been formed, the matter should be promptly 
announced to the members of the two families, and if living sufficiently near, visits 
should be exchanged; the gentleman's family making the first call. 

3. This call should, of course, be returned within a reasonable time. 

4. Should the families reside some distance apart, a pleasant interchange of 
compliments, beginning as above, with the gentleman's family, may take place by 
letter. 

5. Interchanges of presents between the engaged couple are not inappropriate; 
those of the lady usually consisting of articles of her own handiwork, as a watch-case, 
slippers, etc 

6. The fore-finger of the left hand is the one upon which the engagement ring 
is worn ; the wedding ring is placed upon the third finger (that next to the little finger) 
of the same hand. 

7. An invitation to a lady known to be engaged should include her lover, and if 
it does not, she is Justified in ignoring it. 

8. When from any cause it becomes necessary to break an engagement, it 
should be done in a frank manner. Of course there must be grave cause to justify 
such a rupture. 

9. There should be no absurd jealousies ; neither should there be, upon either 
Bide, the remotest approach to the vulgar and odious practice of flirting with others. 
The behavior toward each other should be respectful and tender, but in it there should 
be nothing of love-sickness 

II. The Wedding. 

1. Weddings are usually celebrated in the early days of the week, and rarely 
later than Thursday. The month of May is usually avoided, owing to a superstitious 
belief in its ill luck. 

[408] 



ETIQDETTE OF THE WEDDING, THE ROAD AND THE CAPITAL. 409 

2. A marriage should never take place in Lent. June, July and August are the 
months usually chosen by fashionable people in Europe ; in this country no particular 
months seem to have a preference. Forms for wedding invitations will be given 
among other forms. 

3. A private wedding requires neither bridesmaids nor groomsmen; in church 
there may be any even number not exceeding eight of each. 

4. Bridesmaids should be younger than the bride. 

5. The principal decoration of the dresses should be flowers. 

6. The ornaments of the bride should be few. 

7. Plain white of rich fabric with garland and veil is the most appropriate 
costume. 

8. Bridesmaids may wear more jewelry, but should not wear richer dresses than 
the bride. 

9. The "best man," or nearest friend of the groom, should relieve him from 
all bother incident to the ceremony, and the tour which succeeds it, such as making 
arrangements, procuring tickets, checking baggage, settling bills, etc. 

III. The Ceremony in Church. 

1. When married in church, it is the duty of the bridegroom to send a carriage 
for the minister who is to perform the ceremony. 

2. The front seats of the church are usually separated from the others by a 
white ribbon, and are reserved for the near relatives and friends of the bride and 
groom. 

3. Ushers, wearing each a white rose, are on hand to show guests to seats. 

4. The ushers attend the bridal party at the door of the church and escort them 
to the altar. 

5. The procession is formed thus: the "best man" and chief bridesmaid lead 
the way to the altar, followed by the other attendants, in the order of their preference, 
and followed by the bridegroom with the bride's mother on his arm. Last comes the 
bride upon the arm of her father. 

6. Arriving at the altar, the bride takes her position upon the left of the groom, 
the bridesmaids standing upon her left, slightly in the rear; the bridegroom's attend- 
ants standing to his right, also slightly to the rear. The father, who gives away the 
bride, stands just behind the young couple, and slightly in advance of the bride's 
mother. 

7. If a ring is to be used, it is the duty of the chief bridesmaid to remove the 
glove of the bride. 

8. The responses should be in a low tone, but clear and distinct. 

9. After the ceremony, the first to approach and speak to the bride will be her 
parents ; next, the parents of her husband ; then relatives and friends in the order of 
nearness. 



410 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

10. The brideoToom now wives his iinu to the bride and moves toward the 
vestry, where he raises her veil and Ivisses her. 

11. She may be also Ivissed by a few of her female friends and her relatives. 

12. A wedding march is appropriate as the exit from the church begins, and as 
the carriages drive off the church bells should ring merrily. 



^'o 



IV. Wedding Receptions. 

1. A SHORT reception is usually given at the bride's home. Those who call to 
congratulate the happy couple must first address the bride, unless acquainted only 
with the groom, who will present them. 

2. At the wedding feast, the newlj'-married pair occupy the center of the table, 
the bride's father and mother sitting, as usual, at the head and foot of the table. 
The bride sits on the gi-oom's right. 

3. After retiring from this meal, the bride changes her dress, putting on her 
traveling costume. 

4. This costume should be neat and quiet. 

5. Occasionally the bride is wedded in her traveling dress, but this is seldom the 
case when the wedding is in church. 

6. Upon the return of the bride, she will be assisted in her reception by her 
mother, sister, or some intimate friend. 

7. These calls should be returned within a week. 

V. Etiquette of the Road— Traveling. 

Even in the bustle of railway and steamer travel there is a certain etiquette to be 
observed. Nothing more severely tests the politeness of a jDcrson than the disagree- 
able conditions that often attend modern journeying. The crowded car, the impatient 
throng at the tickct-oiEce, and often the surly and ill-bred servants of railway corpo- 
rations, try the patience and good breeding of the traveler. To be cool and careful, 
neither dilatory nor in a violent hurry, and to take matters with imperturbable 
serenity, mark the man of culture, being famihar with the various modes and miseries 
of travel. 

1 . The novice is apt to be too suspicious or too confiding. 

2. Few questions should be asked, and when possible, always of railway porters, 
passenger directors and other public servants. 

3. If compelled to ask a question of a stranger, do so in a polite manner, pre- 
facing your question with, " Excuse me, sir ! " or, " I beg your pardon, sir ! " 

4. To ask questions, especially needless ones, betrays the greatest verdancy, 
and the questioner is apt to be taken advantage of. 

5. If with a friend who is familiar M'ith a city, never appeal for any information 
about it to a stranger. Such conduct is an insult to the common sense or honesty of 
your friend. 



ETIQUETTE OF THE WEDDING, THE ROAD AND THE CAPITAL. 411 

6. Always, when possible, procure through tickets. Buy your tickets a day in 
advance, if possible, and thus save haste and confusion. The lower central berths in 
a sleeping-car are the best. 

7. Never thrust your attentions on a lady traveler, but render any assistance in 
your power. Never attempt to force a conversation or an acquaintance in return for 
any service. 

8. If appealed to, give your advice, but never intrude it. 

9. Of course if you should hear false information given or an improper place 
recommended, you may in a genteel way inform the intended victim of the true state 
of the case. 

10. Never be anxious to trumpet the praises of any hotel. If your opinion is 
asked, merely say that you put up at such a house and tind it well kept, and a 
desirable stopping place. To a friend who is visiting a strange place, with which you 
are acquainted, you may recommend a hotel. 

11. If requested, or if you see that a lady or gentleman is an invalid, timid, or 
disabled, you may offer to procure their tickets, check their baggage, etc, 

VI. Ladies Traveling— The Escort. 

1. If traveling with a lady, it is your duty to perform for her the services just 
mentioned. 

2. When you reach a city, you should engage a carriage, and see her to her 
abode. If it is a hotel, escort her to the parlor, excuse yourself, go to the office and 
register her name, and get a desirable room for her. 

3. Then escort her to her door and leave her, having mentioned the hour of the 
next meal, for which you should await her in the parlor, and to which you should 
accompany her. 

4. It is neither your duty nor your privilege to pay for the tickets of a lady 
with whom you may be traveling. Small items, such as a dinner, 'bus and car fare, 
you may pay; but she will prefer to pay any considerable sum herself, and should be 
allowed to do so, as she thereby retains her self-respect and independence. 

5. No lady can afford to accept money favors from any gentleman, save a very 
near relative. 

G. No lady should accept promiscuous attentions when traveling; to do so is 
unwise and dangerous. 

7. If any person seeks to intrude himself upon a lady, the proper reserve will 
irenerally cause him to resume his distance. Should this not be sufficient, an appeal 
to the conductor or other official will secure her from further annoyance. 

8. Amono- ladies, it is customary to take turn about in paying street car fares, 
also for lunches, ices, etc. 

9. In this matter, there should lie a reciprocity; a lady who suffers her friend 
to pay all such little costs is wanting in breeding. Such conduct in a man would be 
called selfish vulgarity, and he would be promptly denounced as a " sponge." 



412 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

VII. General Rules for Traveling. 

1. In traveling, be considerate of others. Never occupy two seats while others 
are standing. 

2. Make way prompt!}' and pleasantly; not as if you were doing a favor, but 
only granting a just right. 

3. Never keep your window open, if it annoys a lady, or even a gentleman who 
is an invalid, or weaker or much older than yourself. 

4. You are not obliged to continue an acquaintance begun while traveling, 
though if mutually agreeable there is no reason why a friendship may not be formed 
thus. 

5. Never permit a lady to stand while you are seated. An aged gentleman 
demands the same courtesy. 

(j. Never enter into disputes with either passengers or officials. Avoid all 
causes of contention. If any imposition is practiced, it may be remedied by an 
appeal to the higher officials of the company, or if they should refuse to act, by 
bringing the matter into court. 

7. Avoid all games of chance with strangers, however innocent they may seem. 
It is only a very silly person who is ready to volunteer to assist in making up a 
game of cards with strangers. A gambler, able to protect himself against swindling, 
might do so with impunity, but a gentleman can not afford to take such chances. 

8. Avoid any exhibitions of activity in getting on and off trains while in 
motion, or springing to a wharf before a steamer has fairly landed. The shghtest 
slip may cause a loss of a limb or of life. 

VIII. Etiquette in Washington. 

The etiquette of the courts of Europe is firmly established by a code of enact- 
ment, as rigorously observed as is the civil, or penal code of the country. 

1. Even at our national capital, a code has been agreed upon, to prevent the 
frequent clashing of rival claims. The order of public precedence has been fixed 
thus: 

First, The President and members of his family. 

Second, Heads of Departments. 

Third, Governors of States. 

Fourth, Justices of the Supreme Court. 

Fifth, Members of Congress. 

Sixth, The Diplomatic Corps. 

Seventh, Military and Naval Officers. 

Eighth, All others. 

2. This is the order of reception on the First of January and the Fourth of 
July, when the public receptions of the President are held, beginning at noon. 

3. On all other occasions the Supreme Judges rank next to the President and 
Vice-President. 



ETIQUETTE OF THE WEDDING, THE ROAD AND THE CAPITAL. 413 

4. The Vice-President pays a final call on the President on the assembling of 
Congress. 

5. From all others he is entitled to the first call. These calls he may return in 
person or by card. 

6. The members of the Supreme Bench call upon the President and Vice-Presi- 
dent on the meeting of their court, which is in December. Also on New Year's day 
and the Fourth of July. 

7. From all others they are entitled to the first call, and thus, socially, outrank 
all others, except the President and Vice-President. 

8. Cabinet members must call first upon the President, Vice-President, the 
Supreme Judges, Senators, and the Speaker of the House. 

9. All others must call first upon them. 

10. Senators call first upon President and Vice-President, upon the Supreme 
Judges, and the Speaker of the House. 

11. They are entitled to the first call from all others. 

12. The Speaker of the House calls first upon the President, Vice-President, 
and Judges of the Supreme Court; but all others must call first upon him. 

13. Members of the House of Representatives call upon the President, Vice- 
President, Supreme Judges, their Speaker, Senators, Cabinet Ministers, and Foreign 
Ministers. 

14. Foreign Ministers call upon the President, Vice-President, Cabinet Officers, 
the Supreme Justices, and Speaker of the House. All others should call first upon 
them. Judges of the Court of Claims rank next in social order. 

15. The wives of cabinet ministers hold receptions every Wednesday from two 
or three o'clock until half past five. Their houses are open to all. Refreshments, 
generally of a light character, as coffee, chocolate, tea, cakes, etc., are provided. 
Callers at their Wednesday receptions are entitled to two return calls ; the first by the 
ladies of the family who have the official card of the minister; the second call is an 
invitation to an evening reception. 

16. Cabinet officers are expected to entertain almost all governmental officials 
and members of the Diplomatic corps and their families at dinner parties. With 
other officials, as Senators, Representatives, etc., it is optional whether they entertain 
or not. 

IX. Etiquette of Shopping. 

It is impossible for the well-bred person to treat any one with wanton rude- 
ness, and in fact a due amount of consideration for all is the strongest mark of good 
breeding. 

1. Though a person may be employed for no other purpose than to wait upon 
all comers, yet he or she is entitled to polite and considerate treatment. It is only the 
rude and boorish who treat with scorn or roughness any of those whom they may 
deem their inferiors. . 



414 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

2. The truly gracious and refined see in an humble position still the greater need 
for courteous treatment, lest they may add further bitterness to a lot already suiB- 
ciently hard. 

3. To go into a shop, ask the clerk to pull down a lot of goods, look them over, 
and cause him to lose his temper, and probably soil the goods, without any intention 
of buying, is neither fair nor honest. Such a proceeding is a theft of his time, and 
discredits him in the eyes of his employer, wlio thinks he should have made a sale. 

4. Many well-bred ladies, who desire an article and cannot find it, reward the 
clerk's patience with a small purchase, if they can find at his counter anything they 
can use. 

5. Should a stranger be examining goods, never touch them until she has finished 
her examination. 

6. Never volunteer favorable or unfavorable opinions as to the merits of goods. 
If a friend asks an opinion, you may give it politely and mildly. 

7. Never speak about goods you may have seen in other shops; if you do not 
like the goods exhibited, take your leave in a quiet way. 

8. Some clerks seek to infiuence a sale by making the statement that Mrs. 

(naming usually some wealthy or well-known person) has just ordered a pattern from 
it. This is exceedingly silly, and is a reflection upon the taste and judgment of the 
examiner, as well as an insult to her independence. Merchants should discourage 
such ignorance amonsf their clerks. 

9. Never haggle over prices. Deal only at stores where there is one price, and 
where every one is treated alike. No honest merchant has two prices for his goods; 
one for the unwary and ignorant, the other for the shrewd and haggling buyer. 

10. The largest and oldest shops in cities are usually the best; as large and 
stable businesses can only be built up by honest dealing. 

11. Treat all with whom you come in contact with courtesy, from the merchant 
to the cash-boy. Remember all of them have rendered you some equivalent for the 
money you may have spent. 

X. Special Rules of Etiquette. 

1. Be cool, quiet and self-possessed in all situations. 

2. When you enter a room, bow to all therein. You can afterwards more par- 
ticularly salute your friends. 

.3. Never go into company with soiled clothing: use no musk, and remove all 
offensive odors from clothes and person. 

4. "Cleanliness is next to godliness," and is one of the cardinal points of good 
breeding. 

5. Be courteous to all ladies, whatever may be their rank. 

6. Gentlemen never cast slurs upon the softer sex, and he is churlish, as well 
as ill-bred, who maligns woman in general. 



ETIQUETTE OF THK WEDDING, THE ROAD AND THE CAPITAL. 4:15 

7. Shakspeare gives many excellent general rules for social government, 
amongst them : "Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar," showing that even among 
friends intimacy should not degenerate into vulgar disregard of all conventionalities. 

8. Beware of sudden familiarities. 

9. Your dress should be of as rich material as you can afford, but not flashy. 
In cut and color it should be quiet and modest. 

10. Be prompt in keeping engagements and punctual in meeting all obligations. 

11. Avoid borrowing or lending. No man can be independent and but few 
honest when in debt. 

12. In speaking of friends and acquaintances to others, no matter how intimate, 
give them the prefix of Mr., Miss or Mrs., as the case demands. 

13. Avoid sneering and sarcasm. 

11. Be not witty at the expense of another ; no humor is permissible but that 
which is perfectly innocent. 

15. Punning is a weak apology for wit, and should be eschewed. 

16. Never look over anyone's shoulder while reading a book, paper or letter. 

17. Never search through a card basket or an album unless invited. 

18. Do not be ashamed to tender an apology, if in the wrong. Always accept 
one with gentle courtesy. 

19. If a secret is intrusted to you, never reveal it; it is neither honorable nor 
honest to give away that which is not yours. 

20. Exaggeration is foolish. If you must speak, speak the truth. 

21. Never display any form of curiosity; it is a despicable trait of character to 
be curious about things that do not concern you. 

22. Never flatter. A delicate compliment may be innocently offered and well 
received, but flattery is odious. 

23. Do not whisper in society, and avoid signaling to friends in company. 

24. Avoid the use of languages unknown to the generality of the company 

25. Never be dogmatic, nor make dictatorial assertions. 

26. In entering a house, even your own, always remove your hat, and do not 
be boisterous or restless. 

27. It is better to have no associations than to have evil ones. Good books or 
good thoughts are better than evil companions. 

28. Never back your opinions with an oath or a bet. 

29. Avoid all profanity, loud talking and boisterous merriment. 

30. At the breakfast table, politely salute all assembled, if it be the first time 
of meeting for that day. A cheerful " good morning" should be passed between the 
members of the home circle. 

31. Of course, no gentleman will chew tobacco in a church, parlor, or in the 
presence of ladies. 

32. Be natural. Avoid eccentricity and affectation. 

33. Do not ape any one. 



416 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

34. Your room is the place for making your toilet. Do not arrange your cloth- 
ing in company. 

35. In company avoid paring or cleaning your nails, picking your teeth, 
scratching your head, etc. 

36. Be not egotistical nor pompous. These faults would cloud the most brilliant 
genius; how much more so mere ordinary mortals. 

37. Volunteer your aid to any lady in distress, or to an invalid or aged person. 

38. You cannot afford to let one beneath you in station exceed you in pohte- 
ness. Be courteous to every one. 

39. Boast of nothing; especially not of your wealth, since that is the least 
qualification of a gentleman. 

40. A wife or husband should speak respectfully of each other, and should be 
mentioned as Mr. , or Mrs. . 

41. Ostentation is silly and vulgar. 

42. Never make your ailments or your troubles a topic of conversation, but 
treat sympathetically those who do. 

43. Never contradict in a rude manner. Always point out a mistake with 
gentle courtesy. 

44. Never soil or mark a book that has been lent to you. Return it in good 
order; and, if unavoidably injured, return it and a fresh copy also. 

45. Never correct a person in grammar, deportment, or in a mistake that does 
not implicate you in a wrong. 

46. Never remark upon the personal deformity or mental peculiarities of 
acquaintances. 

47. Upon the street, the lady must first recognize the gentleman. 

48. In dancing, gloves should always be worn. 

49. You have no right to forget an engagement. To do so without a prompt 
and ample apology is equivalent to an insult. 

50. A promise made must be carried out, if possible, at any cost. 

51. No lady ever sneers at, or comments upon, the dress of another in the 
streets. 

52. Avoid all slang and florid adjectives. The conversation, like the manners 
and the morals, should be quiet, chaste, and simple. 

53. Learn to say "No," to all evil invitations and promptings; the true gentle- 
man should be courageous as well as kind. 

54. No amount of learning, wit and genius can atone for coarseness and ill- 
breeding. 

55. Depend neither on wit, wealth, nor raiment for your status in society. 

XI. George 'Washington's One Hundred Rules ot Life Government. 

But few men display, as did the "Father of his Country," the varied talents of 
the soldier, the statesman, the farmer, and the man of business, and if the code of 



ETIQUETTE OF THE WEDDING, THE EOAD AND THE CAPITAL. 417 

self-government, which he is said to have prescribed to himself at the early age of 
thirteen, had anything to do with his success — and no doubt it did— it is certainly 
worthy of the deep consideration of all. 

1. Every action in company ought to be some sign of respect to those present. 

2. In the presence of others sing not to yourself with a humming noise, nor 
drum with your fingers or feet. 

3. Speak not when others speak, sit not when others stand, and walk not when 
others stop. 

4. Turn not your back to others, especially in speaking. 

5. Be no flatterer; neither trifle with any one that does not delight in such 
fadniliarities. 

6. Read no letters, books or papers, in company except when necessary; then 
ask to be excused. 

7. Come not near the books or writing of an}^ one so as to read them unasked. 

8. Let your countenance be pleasant, but in serious matters somewhat grave. 

9. Show not yourself glad at the misfortunes of another, though he were your 
enemy. 

10. They that are in dignity or ofiice have in all places precedency; but whilst 
they are young they ought to respect those that are their equals in birth or other 
qualities, though they have no public charge. 

11. It is good manners to prefer those to Avhom we speak before ourselves, 
especially if they be above us — with whom in no sort should we take the lead. 

12. Let your discourse with men of business be short and comprehensive. 

13. In writing or speaking give to every one his due title, according to his degree 
and the custom of the place. 

14. Strive not with your superiors in argument, but always submit your judg- 
ment to others with modesty. 

15. When a man does all he can, though it succeeds not well, blame not him 
that did it. 

16. It being necessary to advise or rej^rehend any one, consider whether it 
ought to be done in public or in private, presently or at some other time, also in what 
tei'ms to do it. 

17. In reproving any one, do it with no sign of choler, but with sweetness and 
mildness. 

18. Mock not, nor jest at anything of importance. 

19. Break no jests that are sharp and biting. 

20. Laugh not at your own wit. 

21. Wherein you reprove another be unblamable yourself, for example is more 
impressive than precept. 

22. Use no vituperative language against any one. 

23. Avoid all blasphemy. 

24. Be not hasty to believe disparaging reports against any one. 



418 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

25. Avoid all gossip and scandal. 

26. In 3'-our dress be modest. Affect nothing singular or unusual. 

27. Go' to no extreme of fashion ; be well but not gaudily dressed. 

28. riay not the peacock, looking about on every side to see if you be Avell 

decked. 

29. Never play with your dress in company, nor look at yourself to see if your 

clothes fit, or if they be awry. 

30. Associate yourself with men of good quality if you esteem your own 

reputation. 

31. It is better to be alone than in evil company 

32. Let your conversation be without malice or envy. 

33. When angry, beware of haste; give reason time to resume her sway. 

34. Do not urge any one to discover to you his secrets. 

35. To reveal the secrets of another is base and dishonest. 

36. Do not tell extravagant or marvelous stories. 

37. Utter not base and frivolous things amongst grown or learned men. 

38. Do not discourse on learned subjects to the ignorant, neither use obscure 
words or language in conversation with them. 

39. Speak not of doleful things in time of mirth, nor at the table. Never speak 
of melancholy thino-s at inappropriate times ; of death and wounds ; and if others men- 
tion them, change if you can the discourse. 

40. If you must tell your dreams, do so only to intimate friends. 

41. Break not a jest when none take pleasure in mirth. 

42. Laugh not loudly, nor at all without occasion. 

43. Do not talk loudly, nor exhibit a boisterous demeanor. 

44. Deride no man's misfortunes, though there seem to be cause to do so ; 
neither laugh at the calamity of any one. 

45. Speak not injurious words, neither in jest nor in earnest; scoff at none, 
even though they give occasion. 

46. Be not forward, but friendly and courteous. 

47. Salute all who pay you that courtesy; hear and answer politely. 

48. During a conversation affect not sad and pensive airs, or abstraction. 

49. Neither detract from others nor be excessive in commending. 

50. Go not where you are doubtful of a welcome. 

51. Give no advice without being asked; then let it be brief. 

52. When two are contending take not the part of either. 

53. In indifferent matters, go with the majority 

54. Do not presume to correct the mistakes of others; that is the privilege of 
parents, masters and superiors. 

55. Gaze not rudely on any one, neither note their deformities or peculiarities. 

56. Do not use any foreign tongue in company, except to one ignorant of 
English. 



ETIQUETTE OF THE WEDDING, THE ROAD AND THE CAPITAL. 419 

57. Let your conversation be modest, and your language that of good society. 

58. Speak plainly; do not drawl out your words, nor speak through your 
nose. 

59. Treat solemn and sacred things with reverence. 

60. Let your conversation indicate thought; silence is better than idle talk. 

6L When another is speaking, be attentive. Should he hesitate for words, do 
not supply them. Never interrupt another while talking. 

62. Select the proper time to talk upon any kind of business. 

63. Never whisper in the company of others. 

64. Make no odious comparisons. 

65. Should you hear any one commended for any act, commend not another for 
the same or a greater action. 

66. Be not curious to learn the affairs of others. 

67. Never intrude yourself upon others that speak in private. 

68. Undertake not what you cannot perform; make no promises you cannot 
fulfill. 

69. Never attempt in an argument to bully others; give to every one perfect 
libei'ty in expressing himself, and always be willing to submit to the majority. 

70. Be not tedious in discourse; make not many digressions, nor repeat the 
same tales. 

71. Speak not ill of the absent; it is both cowardly and unjust. 

72. Let all your pleasures be pure and manly. 

73. Neither speak nor laugh when your superiors are talking; listen respectfully 
and without impatience. 

73. Never be angry at the table; if annoyed, conceal your vexation, lest others, 
too, be made unhappy. 

74. Jog not the table or desk at which another is reading or writing. 

75. Lean not on any one, nor slap friends and acquaintances on the back or 
shoulder. 

76. Affect not singularity in dress, manner or conversation. 

77. Avoid many and extravagant adjectives. 

78. Never look on when another is reading or writing. 

79. Avoid sudden friendships. 

80. Distrust those that protest vehemently. 

81. Make no friendships with silly or evil persons. 

82. Never seem to indorse any one that is disreputable. 

83. It is best to avoid association with those who show any disrespect for old 



age. 



84. Observe the customs of those older and wiser than yourself 

85. Avoid becoming a borrower or lender of money. 

86. Never do any action of which you have not well studied the consequences. 

87. Be neither prodigal nor miserly; avoid both extremes. 



420 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



88. A good listener is more esteemed by all than a good talker. 

89. Avoid all vulgar ostentation; do nothing for show. 

90. Be upright in all dealings. 

91. Never be outdone in courtesy or politeness 

92. Live temperate]}^ but be not ascetic. 

93. Avoid hypocrisy; never seem to be what you are not. 

94. Avoid fanaticism and be not dictatorial nor too positive. 

95. Never oppress nor deride those weaker, poorer or more ignorant than 
yourself. 

96. Avoid all games of chance, especially with those who make a proposition of 
cards or dice. 

97. Never attempt to make good an assertion with a wager. 
Live not only honestly, but honorably; be chaste, moral and correct in all 



98. 
things. 

99. 
100. 
so reverently, and in church let your conduct be serious and solemn. 



Obey your parents in all things. 

Revile not religion ; when you speak of God, his works or attributes, do 




ENGLISH STYLE COTTAGE OF EIGHT ROOMS. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 
FORMS. LETTERS, FRENCH PHRASES, ETC. 



WRITTEN INVITATIONS TO DINNER AND SOCIAL PARTIES. II. OTHER INVITATIONS— EVENING 

PARTY. III. ACCEPTANCES AND REGRETS. IV. FRIENDLY INVITATIONS. V. FEIENDLY ACCEP- 
TANCES AND REGRETS. VI. LETTERS OF INTRODUCTION. VII. LETTERS OP RECOMMENDATION. 

Vin. ASKING A LOAN, AND THE REPLY. IX. DIRECTING A LETTER. X. SUGGESTIONS FOR 

LETTER-WRITERS. XI. STYLES OF CjVRDS. XII. FRENCH WORDS AND PHRASES IN GENERAL 

USE. Xin. TREATMENT OF CHILDREN. XIV. SEVENTY-FIVE CARDINAL RITLES OF ETIQUETTE. 

XV. ALPHABET OF ETIQUETTE. 

I. Forms of Written Invitation to Dinner and Social Parties, 

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Emory request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Pierce's company, 
on Tuesday, Jan'y 9th, at Jive o'clock. 
No. 27 Caroline Terrace. 

Mr. William Qaio requests the pleasure of Mr. John A. Wheeler's company, at dinner, on 
Tuesday, April 1st, at 7)4 o'clock. 
Windsor Hotel. 

INVITATION TO SOCIAL PARTY. 

Mr. and Mrs. T. S. Strader request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. 0. Adams' company, on 
Monday, Aug. 23th, from 8 to 12 o'clock. 
No. 819 Boulevard Haussman. 

Mr. and Mrs. Reuben Springer request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Randall's 
company, on Wednesday, March 11th, at 8 o'clock. 

85 East RatcUffe Road. Soiree Dansante. 

INVITATION TO MUSICAL PARTY. 

Compliments of Mrs. Jno. H. Scudder, to Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Terry, and requests the 
pleasure of their company on next Friday evening, June 9th, to meet members of the Anon 
Society. 

27 North Beaumont Ave. 

II. Other Invitations— Evening Party. 

Mrs. Ridgely Eveline DeVere requests the pleasure of the company of Mr. and Mrs. Jno. 
■Estin Cook and family, to evening party, Tuesday, December 8th, at 8 o'clock. 
Music and cards . 

Mrs. Junius B. Allison requests the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. Benick DeBar's company, 
on November 1 9th, at half -past nine o'clock. 

No. 9 Benton Place. 

[431] 



422 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

INVITATION TO CONVERSAZIONE (ENGLISH). 

Mrs. Brocton DeLisle-Monk requests the pleasure of the company of Mr. and Mrs. Lester 
Wallack and Miss Mary Anderson, on Tuesday, Sept. ISth, at S o^ clock, to meet Mr. 
Henry Irvimj. 

5S Park Place, Ghodmondely , 
North Brompton Bead, E. 8. 

Note. — Invitations are often dated similarly to letters, thus: 

Febmanj ISth, 18 S3. 
Mrs. Bed-way Benton requests the pleasure of Miss Bernice Plympton^s company to an 
evening party, on Thursday next, at 8 o'clock. 
Benton Villa. 

INVITATION TO CUILDREN'S PARTY. 

Miss Pansie Abel requests pleasure of Miss Bertie LindelVs company on Monday evening, 
January 12th, from 5 to 10 o'clock. 

No. IS Sedgwick St. 

INVITATION TO A BALL. 

Invitations to balls are almost invariably printed, and a form is hardly necessary 
here, since they can be supplied at any printing office. A written invitation should 
follow this, or a nearly similar form: 

The pleasure of your company is requested 

at a Hop, 

at Mrs. S. H. Allen's, on Wednesday evening, December 28th, 1883, 

at 9 o'clock. 

III. Acceptances and Regrets. 

Mr. John Jones accepts, with pleasure, Mr. Bobert Smith's kind invitation for Monday 
evening, Aug. 12th. 

Southern Hotel. 

Tuesday, Aug. 6th, 1883. 

Mrs. Nicholas Longworth accepits the kind invitation of Mr. and 3Irs. Bedway Benton, for 
Thursday evening. May 12th. 
Caroline Terrace, 

Tuesday, 3Iay 5th, 1883. 

REGRETS. 

Mr. John Smith regrets that he cannot accept Mr. Edioard Broimi's polite invitation, for 
Tuesday evening. 

Buckingha^m Hotel, 

Friday, March 11th, 1883. 

A previous engagement, sudden illness of any member of family, or any other 
valid excuse may be added. When an acceptance has to be revoked, the excuse 
should always be given, and should be a sufficiently weighty one. 



FOKMS, LKTTlii;8, FlIENCU PlIKASES, ETC. 423 

IV. Friendly Invitations. 

When persons are intimately acquainted, of course, less formal invitations may 
be extended. A few forms are here given: 

TO DIXXEl:. 

Joloi ( wlew, Et:qr. AV(n loWi, May 20th, 18S3. 

Frii'iid Curlciv: 

I luirr iitritcd a fitr friends tn a dinner, which is set for 
Wednesdatj, iJxy 2Gth, at six u'doek, and it aujiild ijice me (jreat pirasure if ijua to mild form 
one i.if the miml'er. 

Please let vie knote if you are at liberty to aecept this inriliitioii, and oblige 

Yonrs Very Truly, 
Hoffman House. A. J. Thomas. 

TO A PICNIC. 

Miss Milly Adams. 

Dutr MiUy: 

We have made up a little party to tji' to "The Heights'" an a 
picnic piarty, on Ihe lOth. IFc a.utieipate quite an eiijn,jaj,l,: time, n-liieli, ,,n my part at least, 
will be heigliteneel by your mailing one of the number. Wilt you du so'} Pleeise let me 
know, ojul oblige, 

Yirur Friend, 
Honeysuckle Glen. Rutli Herndon. 

FOR A DKIVE. 

Miss Minnie Martin. St. Lords, Oct. 20th, 18S3. 

My Derir Minnie: 

I am, going for a drive in Forest Park to-morrovj, and would 
be delighted if you urjuld 'lecornpany me. 0-an you not do so ? Mamma will act as chaperone. 
We start at two o'clock, frt me knovi if it will be convenient for you to go. 

Very Tnily, Your Fi-iend, 
99 Lucas Place. Mamie Stevens. 

V. Friendly Acceptances and Regrets. 

The acceptances to these informal invitations require no greater amount of 
ceremony; the following answers would be suitable. 

A J. Thomas, Esrp-. N. Y., May 21st, 1SS3. 

Friend Thrjmas: 

Yoxrr kind invitation was duly received, and it affords me 
great pleasure to be able to acce/d. In the meantime, believe me, in haste, but as ever. 

Your Friend, 
Fifth Avenue Hoted. John Corlew. 

Miss Piitth Herndon. Brunswick, Mo., June 12th, 1883. 

Dear Path: 

I received your nejte of the ISth witi, invitation, which it gives 

me great pleasure to be able to accept, so you may count me as one f the party. I don't doubt 

but that we will have a good time, though I fear I shall be able to contribute but little to your 

enjoyment, not from, want of desire, hrnvever. You may certainly erpr-et me, find until then, 

adieu. 

Yours, Ever, 

Pose Hill. Milly Adams. 



4:24 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

FORMS FOK REGKETS. 

A regret should be worded somewhat in this manner : 

Miss Mamie Stevens. St. Louis, Oct. 20th, '53. 

Dear Mamie: 

I rec''d your note with its kind invitation a few moments since, 
lam so sorry that a prior engagement compels me to decline. You don't know how much I 
regret my inability to accept. With kindest regards to your mother, believe me, dear Mamie, 

Ever Yours, 
Beaumont Flats. Minnie Martin. 

VI. Letters of Introduction. 

A GENTLEMAN INTRODUCING A FRIEND. 

Mr. John Buckmaster. Boston, Oct. 15th, 1S83. 

Friend Buckmaster: 

This loill introduce to you my friend, Joachin Miller, 
whom I am desirous of having you meet. Mr. Miller visits St. Louis on social and business 
matters, and anything you may he enabled to do that will add to his pleasure or forward his 
interests, will be properly appreciated, and on occasion reciprocated by 

Your Friend, 



Wallace Overton. 



A LADY INTRODUCING A LADY. 



Miss Delia Mansfield. Denver, Nov. 1st, 1883. 

Dearest Delia: 

Allow me to take this occasion to introduce to you 
Stella Ball, the bearer of this letter. I know you have heard me speak of her a hundred times, 
and believing that an acquaintance would confer mutual pleasure, I have urged her to call upon 
you, lohile in yotir city. Any attention bestowed upon her will be taken as a personal favor by 

Your Friend, 

Stasia Mansfield. 

VII. Letters of Recommendation. 

GENERAL LETTER RECOMMENDING A SERVANT. 

Neiv Orleans, Sept. 9th, '83. 
To Whom it May Concern: — The bearer of this letter, Bobert Hawkshaw, has been in my 
employ for the past three years, as groom and driver, and this is to certify that he has always 
proved himself honest and efficient. I therefore take pleasure in recommending him to any one 
desiring the services of a careful and competent coachman. 

John P. Rogers. 
98 Felicity Boad. 

SPECIAL LETTER RECOMMENDING A CLERK. 

Fletcher, Ames & Co., Gunnison, Col., Oct. 12th, 1883. 

New York. 

G-entlemen: — The bearer of this letter, Mr. Willard Hopkins, has been 
in our em2yloy for the last tioo years, and we have found him efficient and honest. His large 
acquaintance throughout the West induces him to seek a more extended field of operations, 
hence, his visit to your city to obtain a position as traveling salesman. 

While loe are loath to part loith Mr. Hopkins, yet loi cheerfully recommend him us a first- 
class man for the position he seeks, and we will be glad to hear of his success in securing a 
good position. Yery Truly, 

Jamison, Sells & Co. 



FOKMS, LETTERS, FRENCH PHRASES, ETC. 425 

VIII. Asking a Loan and the Reply. 

Chas. Jones, Esqr. Chicago, Aug. 8th, 1883. 

Dear Sir: 

Having failed to make some collections I had regarded as certain, 
and not receiving remittances upon which I had counted, I toould take it as a great favor if 
you would accommodate me with One Hundred Dollars until the 15th inst., when it will be 
promptly repaid. Yours Truly, 

Herkimer Hudson. 

ANSWER COMPLYING. 

H. Hudson, Esqr. ' Chicago, Aug. 9th, 1883. 

Dear Sir: 

Yours of yesterday (8th) rec'd, and in reply would say that though 
contrary to my usual custom, Therewith enclose arn't requested (§100.) Please acknowledge 
receipt, and dorCtfail to return by the 15th, as I shall need it at that time. 

Yrs., (Cc, 

Chas. Jones. 

ANSVTER REFUSING. 

H. Hudson, Esqr. Chicago, Aug. 9th, 1883. 

Dear Sir: 

Your favor of the 8th rec'd, and I regret to say that it is out of my 
power to accommodate you with amH requested. I am myself temporanly short, or should 
take pleasure in complying . Yours Truly, 

Chas. Jones. 

IX. Directing Letters. 

In directing envelopes be careful to write plainly, and especiany avoid any eccen- 
tricities, such as some silly persons indulge in. It is best in directing a letter for a 
small place, to put county as well as State; but both may be omitted from letters 
going to metropolitan cities, as Boston, St. Louis, New Orleans, etc. 

The following form is best : 



ME. WAT HEENDON, 

Washington, 

Chariton Co., 

Mo. 



426 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

A return request may be Avritten in the upper left-hand corner, as indicated by 
dotted lines. If it is desired to send "in care" of any one, the notification should be 
in lower left-hand corner, as indicated by dotted lines. 

X. Suggestions for Letter-Writers. 

A TEW suggestions in regard to Avi-iting and sending lettei's may not be amiss, 
and are herewith given : 

1. It is best to read your letters carefully after having finished them, to see that 
you have omitted nothing of importance. In the haste of composition much may be 
overlooked. 

2. Letters on business should be brief, and to the point. Kemember that to a 
business man time is money. 

3. Always write at least legibly. This will ensure your letters being read, 
which is not the case with all scrawds. 

4. All letters, especially those relating to business, should be promptly 
answered. 

5. Don't fail to copy all important letters that you may write. 

6. It is best to give your address, town, county and State, in each letter. If 
living in a city, street and number will be suflicient. 

7. It is best to use what the Government calls " request envelopes," that is, 

envelopes with the request printed on them that, " if not called for in days, they 

shall be returned to ." 

8. Never forget to date your letters. Often a great deal depends on the correct 
dating of a letter. Lives and fortunes have been lost by this slight omission. 

9. By draft, P. O. order, the new postal-card orders, checks, or by express, 
are all better modes of sending money than by registered letter. The Government is 
not responsible for money lost in a registered letter. 

10. Letters of any importance should be preserved. File them carefully, en- 
dorsing on back date of receipt, nature of contents and name of writer. 

11. In writing, use moderately heavy paper. Black ink is best, though many 
now use only the purple inks, as they flow very freely and do not corrode steel pens. 

12. In dating and beginning letters, the following is the correct form in which 
the writing should appear, though, of course, any other wording may be used : 

Honolulu, Sandwich Islands, 

Oct. 1st, 1SS3. 
Maxioell B. Norton, Esqr. 

Dear Sir: 

Tour favor of the 12th day of September is at hand, etc., etc. 



I OEMS, LETTERS, FRENCH PHEASES, ETC. 

XI. Styles of Cards. 

VISITING CARDS. 



Maby Walker, M. D. 



FOR A PROFESSIONAL L.1-DY. 




FOR MARRIED LADY. 



James A. Jackson. 



FOR GENTLEJIAM. 



JnO. HjUIKINGTON, 



U. S. N. 



FOR NAVAL OFFICER. 



The Misses Simpson. 



FOR SISTERS CALLING TOGETHER. 



Miss Maey Smith. 



FOR UNMARRIED LADY. 



Wm. Gibson, 



427 



U. S. A. 



FOR ARMY OFFICER. 



Mrs. Chas. Green, 
Miss Green. 



FOR LADY AND DAUGHTER. 



428 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Visiting cards may have printed on ttiem the day of week on which their owners 
receive, thus: 





Mes. 


Wm. 


Jajies, 
I2 Berky Place. 


Tuesdays. 









Col. 


AND 


Mes 


. T. 


Green, 








18 Glenwood Ave. 


Thursdays. 











WITH DAY OP KECEPTION. 



OTHER CARDS. 



Me. and Mrs. B. Jones, 
Tuesday Evenings. 
19 Block Place. 



Mr. and 


Mrs. W. Manning, 




AT HOME, 




TuesdoAj, 


November 9th, 


1883, 


J 


to 6 o'clock. 




8 Westminster Terrace. 





A lady's visiting cards should not have street and number printed upon them — 
especially is this the case if the card belongs to an unmarried lady. If it is neces- 
sary to place the number on the card, as in case of a removal, visiting a stranger, 
etc., it may be neatly added with a pencil. 

XII. French Words and Phrases in General Use- 

There are many French phrases that have come into such general usage amono- 
society people that they have almost entirely displaced the corresponding English 
phrases. As it is important to know them, we herewith append a list of those most 
generally in use, with a translation of them, which will, no doubt, prove of service 
to many novices. 

1. Affaire d'amour, A ]ove affair. 

2. A la mode, According to the fashion. 

3. Apropos, To the purpose. 

4. Aucontraire, On the contrary. 



tORMS, LETTERS, FRENCH PHRASES, EtC. 4''. 9 

5. Aufait, Correct. 

6. Au. rev oir, ov,\)ette:\\ A revoir, Until we meet again. 

7. Bal masque, Masked ball. 

8. Blase Fuded, satiated. 

9. Billet-doux, Love-letter. 

10. Bon jour, Good day. 

11. Bon mot, A witty saying 

12. Bon soir Good night. 

13. Bon ton, Good style, fashion. 

14. Oarte blanche, Full power (literally, a blank card) . 

15. Chacun a son gout, . Each to his taste. 

16. Chateau en Espayne, Air castles (literally, castles in Spain) . 

17. Chef cV Oeuvre, . . A masterpiece. 

18. Cher ami, .... Dear friend (male). 

19. Chere amie, Dear friend (female), 

20. Ci-devant, Former. 

21. Commeilfaut, . Correct, as it should be. 

22. Compagnon de voyage, Traveling comrade. 

23. Costume de rigeuer, Full dress. 

24. Coup d' Oeil, A glance (literally, a stroke of the eye) . 

25. Dehut, First appearance. 

26. Denouement, The sequel, disclosure. 

27. Dot DowTy. 

28. Double entendre, Double meaning. 

29. Eclat Dash, brilliance. 

30. Elite, Very select, choice 

31. Embonpoint, Fatness. 

32. Encore, Again. 

33. Emmie, Lassitude, weariness. 

34. En regie, Regularly, properly. 

35. Entente cordial Amicable relation. 

36. Entree, Entrance. 

37. Entre nous, Between us. 

38. E. P. (Enpersonn'}_ In person. 

39. E. V. (En ville), In the town, or city. 

40. Faux pas, False step. 

41 Fete •'^n entertainment. 

42. Fete champetre, Rural entertainment. 

43. Sautton, ■ High fashion. 

44. Jeu d' esprit, ^ witticism (literally, play of words) . 

45. Norn deplume Assumed literary name. 

46. Noxis verrons, We shall see. 

47. Ondit, They say. 

48. Oiitre Garish, ridiculous. 

49. Parvenu ^ would-be fashionable 

50. P. P. C. (Pour prendre conge), To take leave. 

51. P. S. V. P. (Eespondez sHl vous plait), .... Please answer. 

52. Soi-disant, Self-styled. 

53. Soiree Evening entertainment. 

54. Soiree Dansante Dancing party, a ball. 

55 Tete-a-tete Private, face to face (literally, head to head). 

56! Tout ensemble, General appearance, the whole. 

57. Vis-a-Vis Facing, opposite. 



430 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XIII. Treatment of Children. 

1. Never swear or use cocarse language in the presence of children. 

2. Never lower their self-respect by calling them harsh names. 

3. Be free to praise a child judiciously when deserving. 

4. Never break promises made to children; teach truth by example 

5. If necessary to chastise a child, do not do so brutally. 

6. Do not expect of children the judgment and care of older persons. 

7. It is cruel to keep children up late at night, or to waken them early in the 
morning. They require and should have more sleep than grown persons. 

8. Make of your child a companion, counsel with it and listen to its sorrows 
and joys as to those of a friend. 

9. Do not cruelly repel its love and drive it to other confidants. 

10. Do not embitter with brutality and harshness the only portion of life that 
can ever be happy. 

11. A child should be dressed respectably ; to cause it to wear coarse or ill-fitting 
clothes is sure to degrade it. 

12. Teach a child the value of money. Let it have small sums to expend, but 
require an account to be kept, and then show to it whether its purchases are wise 
or not. 

13. Eeason with your children and show them the evils of vice, intemperance, 
and other bad habits. 

14. Teach them to be careful, cleanly, considerate, true and honest. 

15. Do not overtask them mentally or physically 

16. Give plenty of time for recreation, and encourage healthful out-of-door 
games and exercises. 

17. Teach by precept and example the observances of etiquette. How to ea' 
correctly, how to enter a room, how to salute a person, etc., should be a part of the 
child's daily training. 

XIV. Seventy-flve Cardinal Rules of Etiquette. 

1. In riding, driving or walking, pass to the right. 

2. A gentleman should insist on carrj'ing any packages a lady may have. 

3. A true lady will always thank any one who accommodates her, as by giving 
up a seat in a car, opening a door, etc. 

4. No gentleman will stand on a corner, before a theater, or at the door of a 
church, and stare at or make remarks upon ladies. 

.5. No. gentleman or lady will be guilty of the vulgarity of flirting. 

6. A gentleman who has rendered any assistance to a lady must, as soon as the 
service is over, bow respectfully, and pass on. 

7. A lady in crossing a muddy street should raise her dress gracefully, with one 
hand, only to the top of her shoes. 



FORMS, LETTERS, FRENCH PHASES, ETC. 431 

8. It is allowable for a gentleman to offer his arms to two ladies, but no lady 
should take the arms of two gentlemen 

9. Ladies are usually given the inside of the walk. When, in order to jireservc 
this position, changes are to be made, the gentleman must pass behind the lady. 

10. No gentleman will smoke in a parlor, nor is it allowable even on the street 
in the presence of a lady. 

11. On very narrow crossings the lady should precede her escort, as then he is 
enabled to see that she gets across without accident. 

12. No lady should wear a trailing dress upon the street. 

13. lu order the more effectually to protect a lady, a gentleman should give his 
left arm, and in cases of danger this should be done even if it places the lady upon 
the outer side of the walk. 

14. A lady precedes her escort into a door or gate, down stairs and over a diffi- 
cult crossing: the lady takes precedence in going down stairs. 

15. A gentleman should always offer his arm to a lady in the evening. In the 
daytime it is not usual to do so. 

16. If a lady is in distress, any gentleman, whether an acquaintance or not, 
should offer his assistance. 

17. A lady should not go on the street at night unattended. 

18. No gentleman ever makes sweeping innuendoes against the sex. To do so, 
argues an acquaintance only with the most disreputable. 

19. Do not clean your nails or pick your teeth in company. 

20. It is vulgar to indicate a pei'son by pointing. 

21. A practical joke is worse than vulgar: it is cruel. 

22. Always give precedence to ladies, invalids and elderly persons. 

23. Do not make promises that you do not intend to fulfill. 

24. Never touch an acquaintance to call his attention, and never touch any one, 
however menial may be their position, with a cane, parasol or umbrella to secure their 
notice. 

25. Only vulgarians touch pictures, statues, etc., with canes or parasols, to 
point them out, or to indicate any defect or beauty. 

26. Every polite question deserves a civil answer. 

27. You have no right to lend an article that you yourself have borrowed. 

28. Never stand across the pavement, blocking it, and do not occupy a doorway 
or narrow hall to the annoyance and retarding of passers. 

29. A gift made or a favor rendered should never be alluded to. 

30. A gentleman or lady will not only not open the letter of another, but will 
not read one already opened, unless requested to do so. 

31. Charity to street beggers is a douljtful method of relieving necessities. 

32. Only a miserable cad or senseless dude ever boasts of his conquests amongst 
the fair sex. 

33. Never betray a confidence. 



432 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

34. Ecmeuiber that "too much familiarity breeds contempt." 

35. llejoicc not at the calamities of another, even though an enemy. 

36. Be gentle and graceful in all things. 

37. A present should never be undervalued, nor sent in hopes of a return. 

38. Always close the door after you gently and without slamming. 

39. Do not boast of your own exploits. 

40. Never without necessity pass between two persons eng.aged in a conversa- 
tion — should it become necessary, always apologize. 

41. Apologize for passing between any one and the fire, and avoid doing so if 
possible. 

42. Be punctual in keeping appointments. 

43. Never attempt to monopolize the conversation. 

44. Never assert anything with a great degree of certainty. 

45. Do not call newly made acquaintances by their given names. 

46. Do not laugh at your own wit. 

47. Be not often the hero of your own legends. 

48. In foreign countries boast not overmuch of your own. 

49. It is vulgar to question children or servants about the affairs of their 
families. 

50. Be neither rude to nor familiar with servants. Treat them humanly, yet 
with a proper degree of dignity. 

51. It is neither just nor honest to punish children for faults in the commission 
of which you set them the example. 

52. Treat even j^our enemies courteously under your own roof. 

53. Never answer questions addressed to others, or even those that have been 
addressed generally to the company of which you are a member. 

54. It is better to teach by precept than by example. 

55. Avoid satire and sneering. 

56. Wit that wounds should be carefully avoided. 

57. Be kind to all ; treat courteously those who ask and those who extend favors. 

58. Bo truthful. Lying is the vice of slaves. 

59. Avoid hypocrisy, nor make any false pretences. 

60. Invitations should be promptly answered. 

61. Do not neglect calling upon friends. 

62. If writing to another upon business (of benefit to yourself) do not fail to 
enclose postage stamp for reply. 

63. Do not cross your legs, or extend your feet out into the aisles of cars or 
'busses, as others will be troubled thereby. 

64. An offered apology should always be accepted, though it is not necessary to 
again begin a friendship with the person offerino- it. 

65. A lady should not accept expensive gifts, except from near relatives or an 
accepted lover. 



FORMS, LETTERS, FRENCH PHRASES, ETC. 433 

66. Avoid all boisterous conduct, in laughing or talking. 

67. All extremes should be avoided. 

68. Flashy vestments and much jewelry should be avoided. 

69. Do nothing that will interfere with the pleasures of others. 

70. Do not scoff at the beliefs of others. 

71. Be well dressed, but never over-dressed. 

72. Treat children with gentleness and consideration. He who beats or abuses 
a child, degrades it. 

73. Never indulge in profanity ; it is a vice without pleasure or reward. 

74. Never associate with any one whom you would not willingly introduce to 
your family. 

75. Adopt, if not sinful or degrading, the customs of those amongst whom your 
lot is cast. Never be singular. 

XV. Alphabet of Etiquette. 

Avoid thou all evil, all rudeness, all haste, 

Be gentle, be cheerful, he kindl}', be chaste. 

Consider the needs of the old and the weak; 

Don't volunteer counsel, think twice ere you speak. 

Ever think last of self, be not boastful or proud, 

Fear scandal and gossip, let your talk be not loud. 

Greet with equal politeness the high and the low, 

Have a heart full of kindness, a soul pure as snow. 

Injure none by a look, or a word or a tone ; 

Join not those that are evil ; far better alone. 

Keep promise and counsel, let your word be your bond. 

Leave lying to slaves, of yourself be not fond. 

Move gently; be modest in action and dress; 

Never swear, never mock at another's distress. 

Over dressing avoid, but at fashion don't sneer, 

Pay due tribute to usage, but bend not to fear. 

Quit all that is harmful to self or to others, 

Kemember this world is a wide band of brothers! 

Shun the fool and the ruffian ; the fop and the boor, 

Take pleasure in helping the weak and the poor. 

Use good language or none, all coarseness avoid, 

Vulgarity's sinful, or with sin alloyed. 

Wax ever in virtue, in grace and good will, 

Xcelling in good and decreasing in ill. 

Yonder sun be thy guidance in everything bright. 

Zero marking thy standing in all that's not right. 



♦Composed by the late Lord D'Israeli, the English Premier, at the age of 12 years. 



Jjlemorantium 



MISCEIvLANBOUS. 



VALUABLE TABLES AND KECIPES. 
FOODS, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS. 
WEIGHTS, MEASUEES, LEGAL FORMS, ETC. 



iHemorantium 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 
POOD PRODUCTS OF COMMHRCB. 



I. FLOUR AND ITS MANXTTACTUKE. II. EYE AND ITS PEODITCTS.— III. BARLEY AND ITS PRODUCTS. 

IV. OATS AND THEIR PRODUCTS. V. MAIZE AND ITS PRODUCTS. VI. BEANS AND PEAS AND 

THEIR PRODUCTS. VII. POTATOES AND POTATO PRODUCTS. VIII. SAGE AND TAPIOCA. IX. 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA. X. COFFEE. XI. TEA. — XII. COTTON-SEED OIL. XIIL SPICES AND 

THEIR ADULTERATION— PEPPER. XIV. CINNAMON; HOW ;T0 KNOW IF PUEE. XV. CLOVES 

AND ALLSPICE. XVI. NUTMEGS AND MACE. XVII GINGER AND ITS PREPARATION. XVUl. 

CAPERS, TRUE AND SPURIOUS KINDS. XIX. THE TAMARIND 

I. Flour and Its Manufacture. 

ORIGINALLY the word " flour" was used only to designate the bolted flour of 
wheat. Rye, barley, oats, buckwheat and corn were more coarsely ground, and 
their products were called meal. Improvements in milling have now so changed 
the nomenclature, that the products of wheat, rye and buckwheat are now also 
called flour. Corn-meal and oatmeal are the only meals, so called, in the United 
States, though, in some parts of Europe, and in Asia and Africa, barley is ground 
into meal. The grades of wheat flour are numerous under what is known as the 
"patent process," by which wheat, often being separated from its bran, is reduced 
by successive operations to the requisite fineness. It is not ground by crushing as 
formerly, but by granulating. Wheat and rye are separable into bran, shorts, 
middlint^s, fine, superfine and extra flour. There are several patent processes in suc- 
cessful use in the manufacture of flour, and the increased product, per bushel, has 
driven most of the ordinary mills to the wall ; so that now the farmer often finds it 
cheaper to sell his wheat and buy his flour than to have it ground at country mills. 
The principal grades of flour are : Fine, Superfine, Family, and XX, XXX and 
XXXX extras ; and every great mill has its own special brand of superior flour. 

II. Rye and Its Products. 

Rye flour is seldom used alone for bread, but is mixed with fine corn-meal oi 
wheat flour. Thus used it makes a moist bread, from the quantity of gluten it con- 
tains. Rye and Indian bread is much used in cities for breakfast. It requires long 
bakino-, and hence is seldom prepared except by regular bakers. It was formerly much 
used ground, as a portion of the cut feed for horses. Its principal use now, in the 
United States, is in the manufacture of whiskey. 

[437J 



438 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Rye is not generally sown as a field crop On sandy land considerable quantities 
are raised, tiie product being wiiite and in every way better than that of mucky 
soils. The crop, however, is large, and our exports are considerable. The crop of 
1881 was 20,704,950 bushels, being less than that of any year since 1876. In 1878 
the largest crop of rye ever known in the country was produced, being 25,843,790 
bushels. The average value of this grain in 1881 was 93.3 cents per bushel, the 
average yield 11.6 bushels per acre, and the average value $10.82 per acre. The 
average yield per acre for the last eleven years was 13.9 bushels and the average price 
for the same period was 72.2 cents per bushel. 

III. Barley and its Products. 

Barley is not used for bread in the United States, but it is an important and 
valuable crop, immense quantities being used in the manufacture of ale and beer. 
Pearled barley is manufactured to a limited extent. In this process the barley is first 
hulled and then rounded by the attrition of machinery. California, New York and 
Wisconsin produce more than half the annual crop. The crop for 1882 was 45,000,000 
bushels — an average of 23.5 bushels per acre, a greater yield than any previous year, 
except in 1880, when the yield was 45,165,346 bushels, with an average of 24.5 
bushels per acre. The average price for the last eleven years is 73.2 cents per 
bushel; the average yearly price ranging from 58.9 to 92.1 cents per bushel. 

IV. Oats and Their Products. 

Oats are every year more and more used as food in the shape of oatmeal. The 
grain is kiln-dried, hulled, and then broken or granulated in a peculiar mill. The 
best oatmeal is that prepared by partial cooking, again dried, so that its preparation 
for puddings (mush) requires only ten to fifteen minutes. The yield of oats in the 
United States in 1862 was 480,000,000 bushels, the largest yield ever known. 
Illinois, Iowa, New York, Wisconsin, Missouri, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and 
Kansas are the States of largest production. The average produce per acre for the 
last eleven years was 27.6 bushels per acre. Certain fields produced over one hun- 
dred bushels per acre. 

V. Maize and Its Products. 

This is the most important grain crop of the United States. As human food 
it ranks high, its various products thus used being meal, hominy, samp, hulled corn, 
farina and other preparations. Corn is also the great stock-feeding grain. The starch 
of commerce is manufactured from it. It is the principal agent in the production of 
alcohol, and many millions of bushels are now annually used in the manufacture of 
glucose (corn sugar). The Mississippi Valley is the great corn-producing region of 
the world, no other country seeming to have such combined capabilities of soil and 
climate. In 1882, the States north of Kentucky and west of Pennsylvania produced 
1,250,000,000 of the total crop of 1,680,000,000 bushels. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF COMMERCE. 



439 



VI. Beans and Peas and Their Products. 

Beans and peas in their fully ripened and dry state form no insignificant article 
of the world's commerce and food supply. Beans arc known commercially only in 

their natural state, the portion ground 
into beau-meal being insignificant. 
Peas, however, are found in a variety 
of forms, but principally as split peas 
(divested of the skin and halved), and 
as pea-meal. The trade in canned 
green peas is yearly assuming larger 
and larger proportions. The produc- 
tion of dried peas for shipment is con- 
fined entirely to the most northerly 
portions of the United States and to 
Canada, the ravages of the pea-beetle, 
or j^ea-weevil {Brucus pisi), incor- 
rectly called pea-bugs, in the regions 
south of the latitude named, i:>revent- 
ing the production of perfect ripened 
seeds. The great bulk of the split 
peas of commerce come from England 
and Scotland, whose climates are favor- 
able to the crop. Two cuts are given 
showing the germination of the bean 
and the pea, as companion pictures, 
and as a lesson in botany. In the case 
of beans, the two lobes of the seed, in 
germinating, are thrust above ground, thus forming the fii'st leaves of the plant, and 
upon which it is supported until the roots are enabled to draw nourishment from the 
earth. In the case of peas, the shoot is thrust upwards, forming true leaves at once, 
the seed remaining below the surface. 

The varieties of beans are innumerable, the sorts in greatest request for their 
green pods being colored, while those used for their dried seeds, as food, being the 
white varieties. The pea, (navy) bean, the marrow bean, and the Lima bean, are 
carried to all parts of the civilized woi'ld, and are considered indispensable to armies, 
navies and mariners generally. They are both exceedingly rich in flesh-forming 
material, as starch, gum and gluten, and deficient in oil. 

VII. Potatoes and Their Products. 

Potatoes are now almost exclusively used as human food. Formerly, large 
Quantities of starch were made from them, and they were much used for distillation 
into spirits. Alcohol and starch are now made principally from corn. The average 





GEEinXATION OF THE 
BEAN. 



geemination of the 

PEA. 



440 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK, 



yearly production of potatoes in the United States in the past eleven years, was 

135,491,019 bushels, the largest yield in one year being 181,626,400 bushels, and 

the smallest, 105,981,000 bushels. 

New York is the great 

potato-growing State, giving 
20,000,000 bushels annually ; 
next comes Pennsylvania 
with about 9,000,000 bush- 
come Michigan, 
Iowa, Illinois, 
California and 
productions 




m 



els. Then 
Wisconsin, 
Minnesota, 
Ohio, the 

these States being from more 
than 3,000,000 bushels an- 
nually, to over 7,000,000. 

A true wild potato ( Sala- 
num Fendliri), supposed to 
be the original of the culti- 
vated potato, has lately been 
found growing in abundance 
in the northern part of New 
Mexico, between Wingate 
and Fort Defiance. The 
tubers are half to three-quar- 
ters of an inch in diameter, 
and when boiled are escu- 
lent. They are eagerly sought 
by the squaws. If eaten in 
large quantities they produce 
griping, and hence the Nav- 
aho Indians eat magnesian 
earth with their meal of wild 
potatoes. The illustration 
shows the plant and tubers. 

yill. Sago and Tapioca. 

Sago is a starchy farina, 
prepared from the pith of 
various palm trees. The 
arrow-root of Florida is a 
variety of sago prepared 
from indigenous plants, Zamia integrifoUa and Z. pumila. Tapioca is prepared 
from a tropical plant, grown principally in Brazil — Jatropa manihot There are two 



WILD POTATO OF NEW MEXICO. (Salanum. Fendliri ) 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF COMMERCE. 



441 



varieties. The acridity of the roots is destroyed by roasting and washing. Good 
substitutes are pi'epared from the starch of corn. 

IX. Chocolate and Cocoa. 

Both of these are preparations of the nuts of the chocolate tree ( Theohroma 
cocoa), the first from the meat, and the second from the cotyledons or nibs. The 
AVest Indies, Mexico, 
Central America and 
Brazil are the prin- 
cipal producing coun- 
tries. The tree is 
inter-tropical, and 
there are several spe- 
cies. The beverage is 
nourishing, but does 
not possess the re- 
freshing qualities of 
tea and coffee. 

How Chocolate 
Is Made. — In the 
regions where choco- 
late is cultivated, the 
ripe nuts are gath- 
ered and exported; 
or when manufac- 
tured at home, the 
fruits are split open, 
and the nuts (seeds) 
removed. The latter 
are then cleaned of 
the pulpy matter sur- 
rounding them, and 
subjected to a process 
of fermentation, for 
the purpose of devel- 
oping their color, and 
when this process is 
completed they are 
dried in the sun and 
packed for transpor- 
tation. The seeds are prepared for use by roasting in revolving metal cylinders, then 
bruising them to loosen the skins, which are removed by fanning. The cotyledons, 




SvWi. \i^, "- =^^- 



YOUNG I'LANT OF ARABIjVN COFFEE. 



442 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

commonly called cacao-uibs, are separated and crushed and ground between heated 
rollers, which softens the oily matter, and reduces them to a uniform, pasty mass; 
this is then mixed with variable quantities of sugar and starch, to form the different 
kinds of cacao, or sweetened and flavored with vanilla or other substances for the 
formation of chocolate. 

X. Coffee. 

Coffee and tea are articles of almost universal consumption among civilized 
peoples. Coffee is strictly an inter-tropical plant, and is scarcely hardy even in the 
warmest portions of Florida and California. The i)rincipal countries producing 
coffee are the West Indies, Central America and Brazil. The grades of so-called 
Mocha, Java, etc., are mostly produced in the localities above named from seed ori- 
ginally imported. Since the export from Oriental countries is comparatively insig- 
nificant, Brazil is the great coffee-producing country of the globe. Coffee owes its 
flavor both to the nature of the phnits and to the soil upon which it grows. In this 
respect it is like tobacco, the peculiarity of soil and climate giving it flavor. The 
chief requirements of a coffee plantation are constant heat, and protection from the 
direct rays of the sun. 

XI. Tea. 

Tea is indigenous to the sub-tropical regions of China. It has been extensively 
naturalized in other countries, and will survive the winters in the United States as 
far north as Virginia. Its native country is not kn(jwn, but Assam is the only 
country where it is found growing wild. It is injured by long sea voyages, even 
when the greatest care is observed, and hence, since the route to China and the 
other Oriental tea-producing countries has been opened b}' the railways to the Pacific, 
the fragrance is better preserved than heretofore, since the water voyage is materi- 
ally lessened in point of time. Russia is said to receive the finest tea, outside of 
China, it being brought overland. In every part of the South where the shrub is 
hardy, sufficient should be produced for home consumption. The cost of labor 
in its preparation alone prevents its successful cultivation in the hill regions of 
the South. 

XII. Cotton Seed Oil. 

With the falling off in the cultivation of olives, various oils have been used 
for the adulteration of olive oil, or for entirely supplanting its use. One much 
used is cotton seed oil, of which vast quantities are now yearly exported to Europe 
to be returned to us, bottled and duly labeled heuile cV olive. It certainly would be 
better to use it in its original form without paying import dues, since it can be so 
cheaply made that it is largely used in the adulteration of lard, butter, etc. 

Cotton-seed oil is a bland, pui-o oil, agreeable to the taste, and in no way inju- 
rious. The discovery of its valuable qualities has very much enhanced the profits 
of the cotton crop of the South, since the seeds have been utilized for the production 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF COMMERCE. 443 

uf this oil as weJl as for the feeding of stock, instead of allowing them to rot 








o 

c 

re 



n 
c 

CI 




on the ground for manure, as used to be the common practice in former years. 



^■i* TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

XIII. Spices and Their Adulteration— Pepper. 

The pepper of commerce is of two kinds. Red, or cayenne pepper, is the pro- 
duct of our common bird or Chili pepper, an annual plant which may be ripened any 
where in the United States south of forty-hve degrees, by starting the plants in a 
hot-bed, and transplanting. The Cayenne pepper of commerce is the fully ripened 
fruit pods, thoroughly dried and ground to powder. 

Black and White Pepper. — The true pepper of commerce is produced in 
tropical climates, from the berry of a perennial climbing shrub, a native of Sumatra, 
but extensively cultivated in Java, Ceylon, and other tropical regions of Asia. The 
vine bears its seeds at three years old, on spikes. Black pepper is this seed. White 
pepper is the seed divested of its hull. The botanical name is piper nigrum. 

Intoxicating Pepper. — The celebrated intoxicating pepper is the fruit of 
another si^ecies, piper betel, and is chewed by the natives of India prepared with lime, 
and wrapped in the leaves of the betel pepper {chavica betel.) One hundred million 
people are said to chew this intoxicating substance. 

Adulterations. — -Pepper is adulterated with ground rice, mustard, sweepings of 
warerooms, etc., and even the berries are counterfeited by a mixture of oil cake, clay 
and cayenne. The only safety in buying ground pepper is in the integrity of the 
firms who manufacture it. 

XIV. Cinnamon— How to Know It Pure. 

The botanical name of the true cinnamon is CinnamomumZeylanicum, (a species 
of the laurel family) a tropical tree reaching a height of thirty feet, and cultivated in 
many countries. Ceylon has long been noted for the excellence of its cinnamon, but 
commerce has been largely supplied from the West Indies and South America, and 
there is much inferior bark sold as the genuine article. It is prepared by stripping 
the bark from the branches, when it naturally rolls up into c[uills, the smaller of which 
are introduced into the larger, and then dried in the sun. Good cinnamon is known 
by the thinness of the bark; as a rule, the thinner and more pliable, the finer the 
quality. When it is broken the fracture is splintery. It is largely used as a condi- 
ment for its pleasant flavor, and its astringent and cordial properties give it a value as 
a medicine. 

Cassia. — This is the bark of Oinnamomnm cassia, a tree growing forty to fifty 
feet in height, cultivated to a considerable extent in China, the Philippine Islands, the 
western coast of Africa, and in Brazil. The China cassia is considered superior in 
perfume and flavor to any spice of its class. This bark resembles the true cinnamon, 
but is thicker, coarser, and not so delicate in flavor, but being cheaper is frequently 
used to adulterate the true article. For confectionary purposes this affords a stronger 
flavor than cinnamon, and is therefore preferred. The bark is' collected and prepared 
as for cinnamon. Cassia bark is distinguished from cinnamon by being more brittle, 
and of less fibrous texture; it is not so pungent, and has more of a mucilaginous or 
gelatinous quality. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF COMMERCE. 44-5 

XVI. Cloves and Allspice. 

Cloves. — Cloves Jire the flower-buds of a species of myrtle, ( Garyophyllus 
aromaiicus) a small evergreen tree, native to the Malaccas, but cultivated in various 
tropical countries, especially the East and West Indies. The flower buds are collected 
before they expand, are cleaned, dried, and darkened by smoking them over a wood 
fire. All parts of the plant are aromatic; the flower buds only are used in commerce. 

Allspice. — This is of two kinds, Jamaica pei)per, the fruit of a species of myrtle 
(M. pimenta), and allspice-}nmento, the fruit of Eugenia pimento. It takes the 
name allsiaice from combining the flavor of various spices, as cinnamon, cloves and 
nutmeg. The allspice-pimento tree is the species generally cultivated, and is 
planted in orchard-like rows, forming high beautiful trees. The berries are about 
the size of a small pea, of a dark color, and, as seen in commerce, are surmounted by 
the remains of the calyx. They are prepared by being gathered before they are fully 
ripe, and then dried in the sun, when they acquire that reddish-brown tint which 
makes them marketable. 

XVI. Nutmegs and Mace. 

The nutmeg is the kernel of a small tropical tree named Myristica MoscJiata. 
The leaves are aromatic, and the fruit is very much like a peach, having a longitudi- 
nal groove on one side, and bursting into two pieces, when the inclosed seed, covered 
by a false aril which constitutes the substance known as the mace, is exposed. The 
seed itself has a thick outer shell which may be removed when dry, and which incloses 
the nucleus of the seed, the nutmeg of commerce. The fruit is gathered at various 
seasons as it attains maturity. The mace, or covering, of a saffron or orange color, 
is used in the same manner as the nutmeg. 

XVII. Ginger and Its Preparation. 

There are a number of East Indian plants that are used in the place of ginger, 
the principal ones of which are Curcuma amada, aromatica and zedoria. The true 
ginger of commerce is the root-stocks (^rhizomes) of Zingiber officinale, a plant much 
cultivated both in the East and West Indies, as well as in South America, Africa and 
China. The rhizome, or woody root-stock, which forms the ginger, is dug up when 
of sufficient size, cleaned, scraped and dried, and in this state is called uncoated 
ginger; but when the outer skin is not removed from the root-stocks it is called 
coated, and presents a dirty-brown appearance. Independent of this difference in 
color, which is in the mode of preparation, it is supposed that there are two varieties 
of the species, one producing white, and the other dark-colored ginger. The darker 
kinds are sometimes bleached by exposure to the fumes of chloride of lime, or burn- 
m<y sulphur. Ginger when broken across shows a number of small fibers imbedded 
in floury tissue. Its well-known hot, pungent taste is due to the presence of a vola- 
tile oil ; it also contains a large quantity of starch and yellow coloring matter, inclosed 
in large cells. 



446 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

Adulterations. — Ground ginger is largely adulterated with starch, wheat-flour, 
ground rice, mustard, husks, etc., in various proportions. In a young state the 
rhizomes are tender, fleshy, and mildly aromatic, at which time, preserved in syrup 
they form the conserve known as preserved ginger. West India gingers are preferred 
to those from the East Indies. 

XVIII. Capers— True and Spurious Kinds. 

The true caper of commerce is known botanically as Capparis spinosa, a creeping 
plant, a native of the south of Europe. The flower-buds, and in some parts of Italy 
the unripe fruit, ai'e pickled in vinegar, and form what are known as capei's. An 
African species, 0. sodada, furnishes berries with a pepper-like, pungent taste, and 
when dried are used as food. The flower-buds of Zygophyllum fabago, a native of 
the Cape of Good Hope, are used instead of capers, or substituted for that condi- 
ment. Z. coccineum has aromatic seeds, which are used by the natives in place of 
pepper. These and several other species are possessed of vermifuge properties. 
The leaves of Z. simplex are used for diseases of the eye. The smell of this plant 
is said to be so detestable that animals will not eat the foliage. 

XIX. The Tamarinds. 

Tamarinds are the fruit pods of one of the handsomest of tropical trees, the 
Tamarindus Indica having beautifully pinnated foliage. There are varieties of this 
tree, distinguishable chiefly by the size of the pods. The pods vary in length from 
three to six inches, and are slightly curved. They consist of a brittle shell, inclosing 
a soft, acid, brown pulp, traversed by strong woody fibers ; the seeds are again imme- 
diately invested by a thin membranous covering. They owe their grateful acidity to 
the presence of citric, tartaric and other vegetable acids. Tamarinds form an impor- 
tant ingredient in the cookery of Eastern nations, as in the curries of the East Indies. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 
GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 



I. THE FLO^rEK GARDEN. II. HOW TO CULTIVATE FLOWERS. III. SELECT LIST OP FLOWERS Foil 

GENERAL CULTIVATION IV. lUENNIAL AND PERENNIAL FLOWERS. V. SUMMER FLOWEIMNU 

BULBS. VI. FLOWERING PLANTS AND VINES— ROSES. VII. FLOWERING SHRUBS. VIII. CLIMB 

ING AND TRAILING SHRUBS IX. FLOWERING TREES. X. EVERLASTIKG FLOWERS AND ORNA- 
MENTAL GRASSES. XL WATER PLANTS. XU. TRELLISES. 

I. The Flower Garden. 

|HE vegetable garden is properly the province of the master of the farm ; the 
flower garden is preeminently the home of feminine art and taste. However 




CRESTED MOSS KOSES— HAXP SIZE. 

small the village or city lot, flowers may smile up from it to the sun, and call down 
blessings from the admiring passer-by upon the fair and skillful hands that have 
tended them. In no place do they more improve and refine the surroundings, and 
show the beauty of feminine taste and culture than upon the farm. An ample lawn 

[447] 



448 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



studded with ornamental shrubs and trees, a ])ed cut out here and there, or a smiling 
parterre where those lovely gifts of nature have been taught by care and skill to 
bloom, till the soul with an harmonious joy. All long for the beautiful. All love 
flowers. But many, ignorantl}-, suppose that flowers cost so much in time and money 
that only the wealthy may enjoy them. They are within the easy reach of all. The 
common flowers are, as a rule, as beautiful as the rarer ones. Perennial flowering 
plants, or their seeds, once planted, remain year after year, increasing in beauty with 
each successive season until they arrive at their full perfection. 

II. How to Cultivate Flowers. 

The principal mistake made in the cultivation of flowers, is permitting them to 
be smothered while young, by weeds. Many of the common varieties, which sow 
themselves by their seeds, remaining in the ground dui'ing the winter, manage to 
make a pretty successful struggle with their enemies, the weeds, but the plants are 





PANSIES 



MOSS PINK. (PHLOX SUBULATA.) 



SO crowded as to detract much from their beauty. This is why, in the country, so 
much attention is paid to perennials, that is to say, the plants or flowers that live' 
from year to year. If the directions here given are followed, the cultivation of 
annuals will cost less labor, they will come much earlier to perfection, and be, in 
every respect, better than if sown in the open ground. All that is necessary is to 
prepare, about the time field plowing begins, a small hot-bed, as described in the 
chapter on Vegetable Gardening; or a cold frame (a bed covered with sashes), in 
which latter case, the seeds should not be sown therein, until just after the time 
for planting spring wheat. 

Having prepared the bed and put in six inches of clean, fine mold, sow the 
flower seeds in lines four inches apart between rows, putting down a peg marked 
with the name of each variety sown. When large enough to transplant, pick the 
plants out mto another frame, place them two inches apart, and here let them stand 



GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 44.9 

until they are ready to go out of doors. Take up with earth about the roots, lay on 
trays, and they are easily and safely carried to where they are to grow. 

There are but few annuals that, treated in this way, will not transplant kindly. 
Sweet peas, candytuft, etc., should, however, be sown where they are to stand. 
The larkspurs, poppies, mignonette, heliotrope and cypress vine, which are somewhat 
difficult to transplant, may be pricked out in troughs, similar to those described in 
the chapter on Vegetable Gardening, each trough having a pasteboard, or other divi- 
sion, thrust down along the middle, to separate it into two parts. Plants difficult of 
removal may be grown in these simple troughs, and be quickly and «asily trans- 
planted. This may be done at any time in the evening, unless the soil is too wet to 
work. If so, wait until it is dry enough. To transplant in dry weather, give the 
plants in the bed a good soaking the morning before transplanting, which, as stated, 
had best be done at night. 





PERENNIAL DAISY. CALADIUM. 

Leave a little depression, water the roots, and, when the water has disappeared, 
draw the dry earth over all. They will hardly shrink. You will have forwarded 
the season of flowering fully three weeks, and produced your flowers, even of the 
more hardy sorts, far cheaper than if you had sown the seed outside. You will also 
be able to grow many things usually bought as plants from the florists, such as ver- 
bena, pinks, daisy, pansy, etc. You may, early in July, have in full bloom China 
and other garden pinks, and nearly all the class that, sown outside, do not usually 
bloom until the second year. You may have balsams, candj^tuft, alyssum, migno- 
.nette, nasturtium, phlox, zinnias, morning glory, in splendid condition before your 
neighbors, who have sown in the open air, can see theirs among the weeds. 

A second crop of mignonette, candytuft, annual phlox, alyssum, balsams, etc., 
should, later, be sown inside to produce autumn bloom. In your hot-bed start gladi- 
olus, dahlia, tigridias and other bulbs and tubers, and also such roots of perennials, 
including Bengal and other tender roses, as you have kept through the winter in boxes 
placed in a light cellar. 



4:50 . TWEXTIETII CENTURY HOME COOK EOOK. 

III. Select List of Flowers for General Cultivation. 

The running notes below will give all the information necessary to the grower in 
addition to that already stated. Any respectable seed catalogue will give information 
as to special varieties. 

Ageeatum. — Cuttings may be started under glass. If seed is sown cover lightly; 
set plants six inches apart; nice for winter tiowering in the house. 

Ajiaeanthus. — Ornamental foliage plants; fine in masses, and in mixed shrub- 
bery, borders and centers; sow in hot-bed and transplant. 

AsPERULA. — Dwarf, desirable for shady situations and moist soil; fine for bou- 
quets; plant six inches apart. 

Aster. — Showy for borders ; flowers in autumn; sow in cold frame ; transplant 
tall varieties sixteen inches apart, dwarf varieties seven inches apart, in good deep 
soil. 

Baisam. — Showy and desirable; easily cultivated; prune by pinching out the 
terminal buds; sow in hot-bed, cold-frame or window box; transplant into a deep 
rich soil, twelve inches apart; set dwarf sorts separate from tall varieties. 

Cacalia. (Tassel Flower). — Tassel-shaped flowers in clusters on slender 
stalks ; nice for bouquets ; sow in cold-frame ; transplant to ten inches apart. 

Calandrinia. — Sow seeds in sliglit hot-bed and transplant to hght soil; it flowers 
freely, and is perennial if protected in winter. 

Calendula. (Pot Marigold). — Very pretty; flowers toward sunset and does 
not open on cloudy days ; hence one of its names, rainy mai'igold. 

Candytuft. — Fine for edging of beds and bouquets; for early flowering sow 
seed in fall and protect during winter with mulch ; thin plants to four inches apart in 
the spring; it is diflScult to transplant. 

Celosia. (Cockscomb). — Start early in hot-beds or window-boxes, and trans- 
plant into small pots, to remain until the flowei's begin to appear, then set out in 
warm garden soil fifteen inches apart. 

Clarkia. — Sow in March, under glass, and again later in the open air; they 
flourish in any soil free from wet; thin to a foot apart. 

Convolvulus. (Mornings Glort). — There are dwarf and also running species, 
all of them handsome ; they may be sown in the open air at corn-planting time, or 
earlier in a cold frame and transplanted. 

Dianthus. (Pinks).— Among the most elegant of plants are carnation, clove 
pink, China pink and sweet William ; sow in hot-bed ; transplant dwarf varieties six 
inches apart; tall, twelve inches apart; if not kept too warm they ai-e good house 
plants. 

Delphinum. (Larkspur). — These have finely cut leaves and beautiful flowers 
of scarlet, pink, purple, blue and white; double white is fine for bouquets; sow in 
the autumn or in the spring. 

Eschscholtzia. — Showy flowers of yellow and cream white; will not bear trans- 
planting; thin out to eight inches apart. 



GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 451 

Gaillaedia. — If sown early under glass the bloom can be kept up the whole 
summer; the seed germinates slowly; do not transplant until all danger of frost is 
past. 

Gilia. — Low growing, profuse in bloom ; the best effect is produced by them in 
masses, or in borders on rock-work ; the flowers are nice for bouquets; so'sV in fall 
and cover lightly during winter ; thin to six inches apart. 

Lobelia. — Very pretty for baskets or vases; sow seed in hot-bed or frame; 
dwarf varieties are useful for borders or pots ; transplant six inches apart. 

Lupin. — Hardy and easy to grow ; sow the seed in the open ground where wanted 
to bloom; they can not be transplanted. 

Marigold. — The varieties all are showy, and produce fine effects in masses; 
hardy, and continue in bloom the whole season; sow seed in frame or hot-bed; trans- 
plant two feet apart; dwarf varieties, twelve inches apart. 

Mesembryanthemum. — Pretty plants of dwarf habit, fine fqliage, suitable for 
basket or pot culture on the border ; sow seed under grass; transi^lant eight inches 
apart. 

Mignonette,- -Delightful for its fragrance ; sow under glass arid transplant in 
the open air eight inches apart; sow in the open ground in May for succession or late 
bloom. 

MiRABiLis. (Marvel of Peru). — Foliage and flowers are beautiful. For early 
flowering, sow in hot-bed or box, or may be sown where wanted to bloom; thin out 
two feet apart. 

Nasturtium. — Dwarf and running varieties; the latter used for hanging-baskets 
in winter. Dwarfs, pretty, low-growing, profuse flowering plants. The green seeds, 
like martynia pods, are valuable for pickling.. Sow in hot-bed and transplant in open 
air, eight inches apart. 

Nemopiiila. (Baby's Eyes). — Loveliest of blue-eyed flowers. They are low, 
hardy annuals. Sow in frames, transi)lunt six inches apart; thrive best in cool, shady 
places. Seed sown in the fall will succeed well. 

Pansy. (Viola Tri-color). — Nothing prettier; bloom the first season, in June, 
if sown early in hot-bed and transplanted. Requires protection during the winter if 
in open-air beds. 

Petunia. — Indispensable, and elegant in masses; fine in the window garden. 
The seed may be sown in hot-bed or cold frame; transplant eighteen inches apart; 
the plants do not always come true from seed ; they are of every shade of color, and 
bloom from early spring until frost. ' ' 

Phlox, Drummond's. (Annual). — Among the most beautiful of garden flowers, 
and of infinite variety of colors. The seeds for early flowering should be sown in 
the hot-bed or the cold-frame, and transplanted one foot apart, as too close planting 
produces mildew. Or plant out doors where wished to grow. The pretty moss pink 
is one of the perennial phloxes. 

PoRTULACA. One of the most brilliant of sun-loving flowers; low-growing, 



452 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

creeping plants, flowering abundantly. Sow in hot-bed and transplant, six inches 
apart in the open air. 

RiciNUS. (Castor-oil Bean). — Plants of green and purple foliage, of tropical 
and striking effect. A centre-piece of ricinus, with plants of canna next, and a row 
of caladium plants outside, will form a bed truly tropical in effect. 

ScABiosA. (Mourning Bride). — Bright-colored, annuals, adapted for beds and 
for bouquets. The German dwarf varieties are double; sow in frame or in open 
border. Set the tall varieties fifteen inches apart, dwarf, a foot apart. 




HYBRID TEA ROSE— LA FRANCE. 



Stock Flowers. — Stock or gillitlower will never go out of favor, being abun- 
dantly flowering, with colors running through all the shades of crimson, lilac, rose, 
white, etc. Rich soil is requisite to keep Stocks double; they are planted in May or 
sown earlier in the hot-bed, and set out, twelve inches apart. The annual Virginia 
Stock is fine for edgings, but it does not transplant easily. 

Zinnia. (Youth and Old Age). — The varieties of this Mexican plant are magni- 
ficent in color. The flower is nearly as double as the dahlia, and lasts a long time. 
Sow the seed under glass in early spring, and transplant to the open ground, when 
dantrer of frost is over. 



GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 



453 



In this list we have included some plants that are biennial, but treated as annual 
plants as blooming the first year. The double daisy is also not an annual, but will 
bloom the first season if sown very early and twice transplanted before being set out. 
They are difficult to winter out of doors, although in Europe they are hardy as far 
north as Sweden. When there is plenty of snow, many tender plants and flowers 
may be safely wintered. 




CHARLES LEFBBVRE ROSE. 



IV. Biennial and Perennial Flowers. 
Acanthus; aconitum (monk's hood); adonis; alyssum ( distinct from sweet alys- 
sum, an annual); aquilegia (columbine); hollyhock, of which the double varieties 
are elegant and in great variety of color; iberis (candytuft); linum, or ornamental 
fiox; lobelia; lychnis (flame flower) ; myosotis (forget-me-not) ; Oenothera (evening 
primrose); perennial poppy; perennial pea; penstemon; perennial phlox; pinks, 
including picotees and sweet William; primula (primrose) ; pyrethrum; rudbeckia; 
salvia; veronica (speedwell); and violet (sweet violet). These varieties may be 
named among the HsefuJ ornamental plants which either flower the second season or 
are perennial, 



454 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



V. Summer Flo-wering Bulbs. 

Of bulbs, tubers and roots, which include many that must be kept over winter 
in dry sand to prevent freezing, we may note: aniaryllis (magnitieent lily-like 
plants); gladiolus (sword-lily), and all the hardy lilies proper; dahlias, caladium, 
dicentra (bleeding heart), Maderia vine, Japan spirea, tritoma, tuberose (must be 
started very early, planted out when the nights are warm and freely watered), tulips 
and hyaciaths. 








V 



COUNTESS OF SERENE EOSE. 



VI. Flowering Plants and Vines— Roses. 

Among the ornamental vines are adlumia (Alleghany vine) ; amjoelopsis quinque- 
folia (Virginia creeper) ; bignonia radicans (trumpet-vine) ; celastrus scandens (climb- 
ing bitter-sweet); clematis flammula (European sweet, Avhite); clematis vitalba 
(virgin's bower, white). And, among shrubby plants, the hardy roses, and all the 
flowerihor shrubs. 

o 

Moss Rose. — Among the most beautiful of plants are roses, and none are more 
so than those that are not strictly hardy. An especially charming rose, charmin"- 
even by comparison with its lovely sisters, is the moss rose. We illustrate, on pao-e 



GARDEN FLOWEKS AND SHKUBS. 



455 



507, one variety, the Crested Moss, at half the natural size. Its special merit is its 
loug fringe of luoss, giving the buds a most unirjue and beautiful effect. 

Tea Roses. — -The hybrid tea roses do well bedded out in summer, blooming 
profusely and having most exquisite odor. The cut, page 512, shows one of the finest, 
"La France," at half its natural size. In color a delicate silvery rose, changing to 
silvery pink; very large, full, of fine, globular form; a most constant bloomer; it is 
among the most useful of roses and unsurpassed in the delicacy of its coloring. 




liOUIS VAN HOUTTE . 

Perpetual Roses. — The most valuable of any of the rose species are, without 
doubt, the hybrid remontant, or hybrid perpetual roses. Many of these are hardy 
enouo-h to o-row well far into the North with but slight protection, and south of forty 
degrees most of them need none even in winter except in very exposed locations. 
They are constant, charming in bloom and color, exquisite in fragrance, and should 
be cultivated everywhere. One of the best, although it has the one failing of fading 



456 



T'lVENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



quickly, is Charles Lefebvre, shown ou page 513, one-half its natural size. The special 
merits are its line color, finished shape and the beautiful wavy form of its petals. 
The color is reddish crimson, very velvety and rich; it is large, full and beautifully 
formed, is a free bloomer, but as we have said, fades quickly. Its parentage is on 
one side the "Gen. Jacquiminot," and on the other the "Victor Verdier" rose. 

Autumn Roses. — One of the finest of autumn roses, and also one of the best 
for forcinc is the Countess Serene, shown two-thirds its natural size. It should be in 
every collection, however small. It is in color a silvery pink, has great beauty of 
form, delicate mottling, and other merits which should command attention. Page 514. 




FLOWERS or WHITE FLO WEEING DOGWOOD. NATURAL SIZE 



The "Louis Van Houtte" is a rather tender variety, but prolific, and is decidedly 
the peer of any crimson rose known. We illustrate of full size on page 515. In color 
it is a deep crimson maroon; it is of medium size, full, semi-globular form; has large 
foliage, fewer thorns than the other dark roses, and is highly perfumed. Its special 
merits are fine durable color, great sweetness, free blooming, and excellence in form. 

But magnificent as roses arc, and admired as they are by all, they are subject to 
many drawbacks, of which insect pests are not l!ic least. Lice and slugs must be 
watched for, and hence we favor the perpetuals, and the still more tender tea roses. 



GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 



457 



They may bo wintered in the cellar, and will give ample satisfaction bedded out. 
Yet the hardy June roses must by no means be neglected. These should find a place 
in every garden. 

VII. Flowering Shrubs. 

All may have shrubs and clinging vines. From the better flowering sorts, of 

which we illustrate many, as to their flowers and leaves, there is large room for 

selection. In this connection we shall have little to say of trees. They will naturally 

: come in when treating of Landscape Gardening. The shrubs figured will be taken 

alphabetically, the English name following the proper scientific term. 




, .' 5"^. • 



■■W-"lM^ 



^ 





FLOWERS OP JAPAN QUINCE. NATURAL SIZE. 



CoRNUS. (Dogwood). — The variegated cornelian cherry is illustrated, as being 
somewhat rare, and as belonging to the genus. The members of this species are 
valuable shrubs when planted singly, in groups or in masses. Some are distinguished 
by their elegantly variegated foliage, others by their bright colored bark. The 
variety in question is a small tree, native to Europe, which produces clusters of 
bright yellow flowers early in spring, before the leaves make their appearance. The 
foliage, beautifully variegated with white, makes this decidedly the prettiest varie- 
gated shrub in cultivation. 

White Flowering Dogwood. — This is an American species, of spreading 
irregular form, growing from sixteen to twenty-five feet high. The flowers produced 
in spring before the leaves appear, are from three to three and a half inches in diam- 



458 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



eter, white and very showy. They begin to appear just as the magnolia flowers are 
fading, and are invahiable for maintaining a succession of bloom in the gardezi 
border or on the lawn. They also are very durable, lasting in favorable weather 
more than two weeks. Besides being a tree of fine form, its foliage is of a grayish 
gi'een color, glossy and handsome, and in the autumn turns to a deep red, rendering 
the tree one of the most showy and beautiful objects at that season. It may be 
regarded, all things considered, as one of the most valuable trees for ornamental 
planting, ranking next to the magnolia among flowering trees, and only second to the 
scarlet oak (which it almost equals) in brilliant foliage in autumn. 





ROSE -COLORED WEIGELIA. 



VARIEGATED CORNELIAN CHERRY. 



Cydonia. (Quince). Japan Quince. — The flowering varieties of the Japan 
quince rank among our choicest shrubs. Although, of straggling growth, they bear 
the knife well, and, with proper pruning, may be grown in any form. As single 
shrubs on the lawn, they are very attractive, and for the edges of borders or o-poups 
of trees, they are specially adapted. Their large, brilliant flowei-s are among the 
first blossoms in spring, and they appear in great profusion, covering every branch. 



GARDEN FLOWERS AND SlIKUBfj. 



459 



branchlet and twig, before the leaves are developed. Their foliage is bright green 
and glossy, and retains its eolor the entire suninicr, which renders the plants very 
ornamental, especially for ornamental hedges. It is sutUeieutly thorny to form a 
defense, and at the same time nndves one of the most beautiful flowering hedges. 
There are a nlimber of varieties: scarlet, Ijlush, rosy red, and the double flowering. 
The cut on page 517 shows the ttowei-s of full size. 

Dentzia. — We are indebted to Japan for 
this valuable genus of plants. For hardiness, 
flne form and luxuriance of foliage, and in 
attractive bloom, they are among the most popu- 
lar of plants. The flowering season in the North, 
is the latter part of June, the beautiful racemes 
being from four to six inches long. The illustra- 
tion shows Pride of Rochester, an American 
variety, producing large double white flowers; 
the back of the petals being slightly tinged with 
rose. It excels all of the older sorts in size of 
flower, length of panicle, profuseness of bloom 
and vigorous habit; blooms nearly a week earlier 
than its parents, the double dentzia crenata. 

Diervilla. (Weigelia). — This is another 
valuable genus from Japan. Shrubs of erect 
habit while young, but generally spreading and 
drooping as they acciuireage. They produce in 
June and July superb, large, trumi)et-shaped 
flowers, of all shades and colors, from pure 
white to red. In borders and groups of trees 
they are very effective, and for margins the variegated leaved varieties are admirably 
suited, their gay colored foliage contrasting linely Avith the green of other shrubs. 

There are many varieties, all beautiful. The flgure on page 518, the rose-colored 
variety, an elegant shrub, with flne rose-colored flowers, introduced from China by 
Mr. Fortune, and considered one of the finest plants he has discovered; of erect, 
compact growth ; blossoms in June. 

One of the most valuable properties of the weigelias is that they come into 
blossom after the lilac, and when there is some scarcity of flowering shrubs. 

FoRSYTHiA. (Golden Bell). — These are pretty shrubs, of medium size. All 
natives of China and Japan. The flowers are drooping, yellow, and appear very early 
in sprimj, before the leaves. The best very early flowering shrubs. The one we 
illustrate is in its growth, upright; foliage," deep green ;- flowers, bright yellow, and 
shows the natural size of the flowers. (See next page). 

Halesia. (Silver Bell). — This is the common snow drop, a pretty companion 
to the golden bell. A beautiful large shrub, with pretty, white, bell-shaped flowers 




PIUDE OF ROGHESTER DENTZIA BLOS- 
SOMS, ONE-TIIIRD SIZE. 



400 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 




FORTUNE'S FORSYTHIA— NATUKAI. SIZB. 



Garde jf flowers and shrubs. 



m 




DOUni.K l'LO\\' EHIN'G I'LUM. 



462 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



in May. It is distinguished by its four- 




HTDEjU<fGEA OTAKSA. 

The hydrangeas are worthy of culti- 
vation wherever they can be given 
sliade, good drainage and plenty of 
water. 

Philadelphus. (Syeinga, or 
Mock Orange). — The syringa is an 
invaluable shrub. Of vigorous habit, 
very hardy, with large handsome fo- 
liage, and beautiful white flowers, 
produced in the greatest profusion 
at the blossoming season; it merits a 
prominent place in all collections of 
shrubbery. Most of the varieties, 
except those of dwarf habit, form 
large sized shrubs, twelve to fifteen 
feet high. They can, of course, 
be kept smaller by pruning. The 
dwarf sorts do not yield many flow- 
ers, but are such pretty, compact 
phxnts as to be very useful where 
small shrubs are desired. All of the 
varieties flower in June, after the M'ie 



winded fruit, which is from one to two inches 
Ions:. One of the most desirable shrubs. 
Hydrangea. — The native species are 
handsome shrubs of medium size, with 
fine large leaves, generally of a light green 
color, and perfectly hardy The introduc- 
tions from Japan and China are particu- 
larly interesting and valuable. H. pani- 
culata grandiflora is remarkable in foliage 
and flower, and being perfectly hardy, is 
of great value. The other Jajsanese vari- 
eties, like the H. hortensia, require pro- 
tection in winter. They should be grown 
in pots or boxes and wintered in the cellar, 
and in summer placed along walks under 
the shade of trees. H. otaJcsa is specially 
adapted for this purpose. The foliage is 
a beautiful deep green color; the plant 
produces immense trusses of rose-colored 
flowers in profusion in July ; free bloomer. 




syringa, or mock orange— NATITRAL SIZE. 

ffclia. By planting the late flowering sorts, 



GARDEN FLOWERS ANB SHRUBS. 



463 



the season may be considerably extended. The syringa iUustrated has very large, 
white, fragrant flowers, upright habit, is very free flowering and a valuable sort. 
Prunus. (Plum). — Among the plmns are embraced some of the most charm- 
ing early spring flowering shrubs. Prunus triloba or the double-flowered plum, afe 




SILVER BELL.— NATURAL SIZE. 



MEADOW SWEET.— SPIRE A EXIMIA. 



it is commonly called, and the doulde-flowered almonds produce in remarkable profu- 
sion, perfectly double, finely formed flowers of most attractive colors. At tlie l.'los- 
soming season each little tree appears like one mass of bloom, forming a most 
beautiful and interesting object, whether planted singly upon the lawn or in groups. 



464 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK 



As the almond and plum flower at the same time, they can be massed very effectively. 
Both are hardy and of line habit. The double flowering variety illustrated is a highly 
interesting and desirable addition to hardy shrubs; flowers double, of a delicate pink, 
upwards of an inch in diameter, thickly set on the long slender branches; flowers 
in May. (Page 521). 




LANCE-LEAVED SPIEEA. 



Spir^a. ( Meadow Sweet ) .—The spireas are all elegant, low shrubs, universally 
admired and grown in some of their numerous varieties. They are of the easiest cul- 
ture, and their blooming extends over a period of three months. We illustrate two fine 
varieties— eximia, page 523, a well-known sort, and the double-flowered, lance-leaved 
variety. We also give a list of ten sorts, which flov;er in the order named, beginning 
in the middle of May and ending, in the North, about the middle of August: (1.) 
Prunifoliafl. pi., Thunbergii. (2.) Niconderti. (3.) Chamtedrifolia. (4.) Cratfegi- 
folia, lanceolata, lanceolata fl. pi., lanccolata robusta. (5.) UlmifoHa. (6.) Opulifolia 



CiARDJ5N FLO^V^3RS AND SHRUBS. 



46^ 




jturea crenata. (7.) Fontemiysii, 

salicifolia,soi'bifolia. (.S.)Billiu-tli. 

(9.) Ariffifoiiu. ( 10.) Calloaa and 

callosa alba, callosa yupeiba. The 

marks tl.pl. mcaiidoublo tloweiing. 
Spiuea Japoxica. — This is 

a new and very handsome spouics 

from Japan. A dwarf growing, 

but very vigorous, narrow-leaved 

variety, with rose-colored flowers, 

appearing in great profusion in 

mid-summer and autumn. AVhen 

small shrubs are desired, this will 

be an acquisition. The cut gives 

a faithful representation of the 

foliage and bloom. 

Rhodotypus. Kerrioides. — 

This is another fine plant from 

Japan, a country that has given us 

many elegant hardy and half- 
hardy shrubs and flowering plants. Japanese spieba. 

It is a very ornamental shrub, of medium size, with handsome foliage and large 

single white flowers in the latter part 
of May, succeeded by numerous small 
fruits. 

Viburnum. ( Snowball ) . — This tribe 
is well known. The cut shows, at one- 
third its size, V. opulus, or bush cran- 
berry, variety, sterilis, the common 
guelder rose of the garden. The plicate 
viburnum is better in every respect. Of 
moderate growth; handsome, plicated 
leaves, globular heads of pure white neu- 
tral flowers, early in June, it surpasses 
the common variety in several respects. 
Its habit is better, foliage much hand- 
somer, flowers whiter and more delicate. 
One of the most valuable flowering 

GUELDEE ROSE (^^BURNTJM). shrubs. 

VIII. Climbing and Trailing Shrubs. 
Of climbing and trailing shrubs there is a great variety. Ampelopsis (Virginia 




466 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



creeper); Dutchman's pipe (aristolachia) ; and clematis, or virgin's bower, being 
well known. 



-siJK-;- 







CLEMATIS JAOIvMANNI— HALF-SIZE. 



Clematis. — These should be in every collection, and will stand the severest 
winters if protected over the roots with mulch. They are elegant, slender branched 




HALL'S JAPjVN HONEYSUCKLE. 



shrubs, of rapid growth, handsome foliage and beautiful large flowers of all colors. 
Either in the open ground as pillar plants, bedding plants, single plants, in masses, 
or about rock-work, or cultivated in pots or tubs, the clematis cannot be excelled. 



GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 



467 



The cut showa the blossoms of clematis Jackmtmni, half-size. There are six distinct 
types of these beautiful plants, all excellent and ilowering at various seasons. 

Hedera. (Ivy). — The ivies are not hardy in America, either North or South, 
except in peculiar situations. They suffer from the sun in winter. Hence, ampel- 
opsis takes its place. 

LoNiCERA. (Honeysuckle or Woodbine). — This is hardy, and there are many 
beautiful varieties. Among them none is better than Hall's Japan honeysuckle. A 
strong, vigorous, almost evergreen sort, Avith pure white flowers, changing to yellow. 
Very fragrant, and covered with flowers from July to December; holds its leaves even 
until January. The illustration on page 526 shows a spray and blossoms of this 
beautiful plant. 




CHINESE- WISTARIA.— QUARTER SIZE. 

Menispermum. (Moon Seed). — This is a pretty, native, twining, slender- 
branched shrub, with small yellow flowers and black berries. 

Silk Vine. (Periploca). — This is another beautiful, rapid growing vine, 
chmbing to a height of thirty to forty feet. The foliage is glossy and the clusters of 
flowers a purple brown. 

Wistaria. — These are beautiful climbers, and there are many varieties, with 
various colored flowers. The Chinese wistaria is one of the best. In fact, is one of 
the most elegant and rapid growing of all climbing plants ; attains an immense size, 
crowing at the rate of fifteen or twenty feet in a season. Has long pendulous clusters 
of pale blue flowers in May and June, and in autumn. The illustration shows the 
leaves and flowers quarter size. 



468 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



IX. Flowering Trees. 

These are of many kinds, and should not be neglected. They are especially useful 
on lawns of large extent, such as should always belong to the better class of farms. 

The magnolia should find a j^lace every- 
where, from the magnificent varieties 
adapted to the far South to the smaller 
shrub-like varieties of the North 

Magnolia Speciosa. — The illus- 
tration shows, in half size of nature, 
the flowers of magnolia speciosa, the 
showy-flowered magnolia. This tree 
resembles the M. Soulangeana in 
growth and foliage, but the flowers are 
a little smaller, and of a lighter color, 
fully a week later, and remain in per- 
fect condition upon the tree longer than 
those of any other Chinese variety. 
These qualities, combined with its 
hardiness, render it, in our esteem, one 
of the most valuable sorts. Other 
magnificent varieties obtained by hy- 
bridization are: 

Magnolia Conspicua ( Chinese 

White Magnolia). (Chandler, or 

Yulan Magnolia). — A Chinese species 

of great beauty. The tree is of medium size, shi'ub-like in growth while young, but 

attains the size of a tree in time. The flowers are large, pure white, very numerous, 

and appear before the leaves. 

Magnolia Norbertiana. (Norbert's Magnolia). — A hybrid between ilif. con- 
spicua and M. ohovata. Tree, vigorous and of regular outline; foliage, showy; 
flowers, white and dark purple. One of the best. 

Magnolia Soulangeana. (Soulange's Magnolia). — A hybrid, in habit closely 
resembling M. conspicua. Shrubby and branching while young, but becoming a fair 
sized tree. Flowers, white and purple, cup shaped, and three to five inches in dia- 
meter. Foliage, large glossy and massive. It forms a handsome tree worked upon 
the M. acuminata. One of the hardiest and finest of the foreign magnolias. Blooms 
later than conspicua. 

There is one thing, however, always to be remembered: In ordering any tree or 
plant of your nurseryman describe your situation and locality. State some plants 
that are hardy and half-hardy with you, and then the advice given in relation to 
varieties may be worth money to you and save disappointment. 

.^scuLUS. (Horse Chestnut). — Amongthe horse chestnuts is a double flowered 




flowers of magnolia speciosa.— half size. 



GARDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 



469 



variety that is magnificent, as any person will admit who has scon this tree as wc 
have, fifty feet high in its glory of blossoms. Not the least value of this tree is that 
the blossoms are sterile, and hence the saving of the usual "horse chestnut litter" on 
the lawn. 

Double-Flowering Cherry. (Cerasus). — There are few trees which combine 
beauty with usefulness as do the cherries. We illustrate the flowers of the double- 




RACEMES double FLOWERED HOKSE CHESTNUT-ONE-FIFTH SIZE. 

flowering cherry one-quarter size. They flower in May in the North, and are especially 
beautiful. The flowers are so numerous as to conceal the branches, and present to 
the eye nothing but a mass of bloom, each flower resembling a miniature rose. The 
drooping varieties of the ornamental cherries are especially adapted to beautifying 
small o-rounds. As single specimens on the lawn they are unique and handsome, and 
require only to be better known in order to be extensively planted. See next page. 
The Double-Flowering Thorn. (Crataegus). — There arc no trees or shrubs 



470 TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 

more attractive than the flowering thorns. They are small trees, attractive in shape 
and fohage, where they have room, and by judicious pruning can be brought into 
small limits. They flower in May and June. The foliage is varied and attractive, 
flowers very showy and often highly perfumed. The fruit is ornamental. There are 
numerous varieties, all of which are hardv and will thrive in any dry soil. 



DOUBLE FLuWERIXG CHEllEY— QUABTEli SIZE. 

A Handsome Crab-apple. (Pyrus). — Few know the beauty of the ornamental 
crabs. These trees will bear investigation. We illustrate one of the best, with its 
double, rose-colored and fragrant blossoms, of which the size is shown in the cut. It 
is the best ornamental crab known. See page 532. 

The Catalpa. — The catalpa has a value as a timber tree. The wood is one of 
the most lasting known, but it is, in all its varieties, an ornamental tree also, with its 
magnificently large leaves ; and it is, probably, as valuable as the sun-flower in arresting 
miasma. One species, catalpa speciosa, a western forest tree, hardy up to forty-two 



GARDEN FLOWEliS AND SHRUBS. 4:71 

degrees North, standing the hard winters there, and to our mind a much finer 




FLOWERS OF DOUBLE FL(JWEKING THOIIN— NATURAL SIZE. 

tree, in every respect, than the southern species, catalpa bignonioides ; the northern, 




FLOWERS OF OATALPA SPECIOSA-QUARTER-SIZE. 

the speciosa, being an upright tree and the other of a straggHng form. Its blossoms 



472 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



also opon from two to three weeks earlier than bignonioides. There arc a numljer of 
ornamental varieties, among them golden catalpa, a medium-sized tree with heart- 
shaped leaves, golden in spring but turning green later; catalpa Bungei, from China, 
a dwarf with large glossy foliage; Japan catalpa, of medium-size, deep green 
glossy foliage. Flowers fragrant, cream colored, speckled Avith purple and yelloow; 
seed pods long and very narrow; flowers about four weeks later than catalpa speciosa. 



y^'^' 




CHINESE DOUBLE-FLOWERING CRAB— NATURAL SIZE. 

The Persimmon. — (Diospyros). — The persimmon is not without beauty, as a 
small shade tree on the lawn, and the children will not forget it, when its ripe fruits, 
mellowed by the frost, are lying in the grass. It was a great favorite with the late 
venerable Arthur Bryant, who loved all that belonged to the forest and grove, as 
well as his brother, the poet. When horticultural friends visited him, as many did, 
the handsome persimmon trees on his lawn were admired by these " children of older 
growth," especially in the later autumn. The tree has a wide range fi'om the great 
lakes to the gulf, and some varieties in every situation bear excellent fruit. The 
Japanese persimmon bears superior fruit, but is not hardy North. 



GAEDEN FLOWERS AND SHRUBS. 



iU 



X. Everlasting Flowers and Ornamental Grasses. 

The ornamental grasses and everlasting flowers (so-called), that is, flowers that 
retain their color and shape in drying, are considered indispensable in all good collec- 
tions. Among these should not be omitted panicles of oats and heads' of other 
grains carefully dried, while green, in the shade, and then bleached, if desired, with 
the fumes of burning sulphur. There are many varieties of some of the species of 
everlastings mentioned. We give some of the better ones. These are : Acroclinium, 
white and red; ammobium, white; gomphrena, (globe amaranth), white, flesh-col- 
ored, 25mk and white, and orange; helichrysum, rose, red, white, yellow and crimson; 
helipterum, white and yellow; rodanthe, Avhite and yellow, purple and violet, rosy 
purple, etc. ; statice, yellow, blue and rose ; waitzia, yellow ; and xeranthemum, 
purple, light blue and white. 

Besides these, that admirable and truly magnificent plant, Statice Latifolia, with 
its large trusses of lilac flowers, is most 
desirable v,'here it is hardy 
it 

heads. There are a number of varieties be- 
sides the one shown ; as S. alba, grandi- 
folia, maritima( sea pink), and S. undulata. 

Ornamental Grasses. — Among the 
giants in this class, arc pampas grass, 
(gynerium) not hardy in the North, and 
erianthus ravennse, hardy with slight cover- 
ing, and fully as fine. The smaller orna- 
mental grasses which we recommend are : 
agrostis nebulosa, elegant, fine and feath- 
ery; arundo donax, perennial, yellow "*= 
striped leaves; avena sterilis, (animated 
oat) ; Briza maxima, one of the best of 

the ornamental 



The cut gives 
characteristics of foliage and blossom- 




STATICE LATIFOLIA. 



grasses, also geniculata; brizopy- 
rum siculum, pretty; bromus brizasformis, peren- 
nial; chrysurus cynosuroides (lamarckia aurea), 
yellowish, feathery spikes; coix lachryma (Job's 
tears); hordeum jubatum (squirrel tail grass), fine; 
lagurus ovatus (hare's tail grass), dwarf, showy 
heads; pennisetum longistylum, very graceful; 
stipa pennata (feather grass), magnificent; tri- 
cholfena rosea, beautiful, rose tinted. The illustra- 
tion shows how pretty these are in a simple basket. 

XL Water Plants. , ,;; ,j, :; ,7 

Where there is water, various plants will make pretty additions to the scenery. 




OENAMENTAL GRASSES. 



474 



TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME COOK BOOK. 



Wild rice and other aquatic plants found in the streams may be used, though the 

wholesale nurseries will suppl}- anything wanted, or, 
your nearest nurseryman will order them for you. 
Nothing, however, is prettier than the water lilies so 
abundant in the West. The double, fragrant water-lily 
(nymphfea odorata) should come first. Tlie heart-shaped 
lily is, to our mind, no less pretty, though not so well 
known nor so much admired. The nelumbo, or Ameri- 
can water-lily, bears an cdibje bean, and is the American 
representative of the sacred lotus of the Nile. The water-lilies are easily cultivated 
by sinking the root, tied to a large stone, into the mud of a pond, or, if the bottom 
is hard, by tying the root to the top of a stone and covering with muck. 




WATER LILIES. 




Ftg.l. 

FAN TRELLIS. 



XII. Trellises. 

Trellises are of various forms and easily made by any one who 

has a little mechanical skill. Those partly of wire and partly of wood 

are, many of them, of elegant forms, and are 

sold by all horticulturalists. When climbing 

plants or shrubs are grown at some distance 

from any building, some support must be given. 

Simjilc, strong stakes, the rugged stump, or 

even top of a tree may, with great effect, be 

covered by ampelopsis, or any of that class of 

runners. Other climbers must have trellises to 

conform to their habit, and the height of these 

trellises must be governed by the plants em- 
ployed. The three forms we give will illustrate 

our meaning and fully explain themselves. The 

fanr-shaped trellis is quickly made, of the re- 
quired size, by slitting the board or siding partly 

through, and then spreading and fastening. It 

is shown at Fig. 1. Fig. 2 shows a trellis of 

uniform width, and Fig. 3, a square trellis, which 

is contracted at the top and useful for a variety 

of twining plants. 

Too many suppose that floral beauty must 

be confined to the parterre. Not so. You will 

find, in the list we have here shown, climbino- 

plants, shrubs and trees which are among the 
loveliest of nature's gifts. Again, we repeat: be sure of your climate, and that 
your shrubs, trees, vines and flowers will flourish in it. 





Fig. 3. 

obelisk trellis. 



ii^lemoranlium 



iiJlemorantium 



INDEX. 



Explanation of Cross-Reference Index : There are many headings under which recipes can be 
put. Take for instance "Chicken Pot-Pie." Look under "C" first; then under "Pie." C. D. after 
any recipe means they are for the Chafing Dish. 



Acceptance or Regrets 

Adulteration of Spices 

Allemande Sauce 

Almonds, Salted 

Almonds, Salted, C. D 

Allumetes 

Ambrosia 

Anchovy Sauce 

Angel's Food 

Antidotes for Poisons 

Ants, to get rid of 

Apple Custard Pie 

Apple Dumplings 

Apple Jam 

Apple Marmalade 

Apple Pie 

Apple Pudding 

Apple Souffle 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Artichokes 

Artificial Cream 

Arrange Dinner Table 

Asparagus 179 

Asparagus Soup 

Asparagus, White Sauce 

Aspic Jelly 

Autumn, Menu for 

Bachelor's Pudding 

Bacon and Mushrooms, C. D 

Bacon, When Best 

Baked Beans 

Baked Fish 

Ball and Party 

Bananas and Cream. '. 

Bananas, Frozen 

Barley and its Products 

Bass, Boiled 

Bath. The 

Bathing. Nursery 

Baths, in Summer ■. 

Bathing, Time for 

Baths, in Winter 

Beans 

Beans, Boiled 

Beans, French 

Beans and Peas 

Bean Soup • 



422 Beans, String 171 

444 Beautifying the Home 341 

154 Beauty Department 309 

204 Bed Bugs, How to get rid of 296 

271 Bed-room Furnishing 342 

199 Bed Room Furniture 346 

203 Beef 95 

148 Beef a la Mode 97-235 

206 Beef, Bouilli 98 

289 Beef, Braised 99 

297 Beef Broth 279 

28 Beef Broth, C. D 272 

33 Beef, Choice parts 332 

59 Beef, Corned 100 

58 Beef, Dried 250 

26 Beef, Dried Fricasse of, C. D 268 

34 Beef, Flank of 99 

35 Beef, French 100 

33 Beef, Fricasseed 104 

184 Beef, Heart 105 

SO Beef Heel iii 

363 Beef, How to Cut 331 

180 Beef Omekt 103 

70 Beef, Pressed 103 

179 Beef, Rib Roast 99 

210 Beef, Roast 98-234 

321 Beef Roast Chauffe, C. D 269 

Beef, Round of. 100 

37 Beef, Savory 103 

270 Beef, Spiced 98 

328 Beef Stew 232 

236 Beefsteak Broiled 102 

79 Beefsteak, French 102 

399 Beefsteak, with Mushrooms 103 

209 Beefsteak with Onions 102 

204 Beefsteak Stew 232 

438 Beef Tea 279 

80 Beef, To Carve 364 

375 Beef Tongue 108 

274 Beer of Sulphuric Acid 51 

275 Beer of Various Fruits 52 

275 Beets 173 

275 Beverages 47 

171 Bird's Nest Pudding 35 

248 Biscuits and Rolls 17 

172 Biscuits, Breakfast 22 

439 Biscuit Glace a la C. Dickens 206 

70 Biscuits, Raised 22 

[477] 



478 



INDEX. 



Biscuits, Thin 22 

Bisque 223 

Bitters, How to make 52 

Black Bean Soup 69 

Blackberry Syrup 61 

Black Fish Baked «i 

Black Heads, To Reuiovc 309 

Blanc Mange for Invalids 281 

Blankets. To Cleanse 299 

Bleaching Linens 301 

Blisters. Remedy for 284 

Blue Fish, Baked 80 

Blue Fish, Boiled 80 

Bohemian Cream 37 

Boiled Dinner 231 

Boiled Grape Pudding 34 

Boiled Pudding Sauce 29 

Boiling, Famous Cook on 337 

Boned Turkey 127 

Books, to preserve , 298 

Bordelaise Sauce IS3 

Boston Baked Beans 174 

Boston Brown Bread 21 

Bouilli Beef 98 

Bouillon 75 

Brandy Peaches 62 

Brain Omelet 109 

Brains, Fried 109 

Brains and Tomatoes 109 

Braised Beef 99 

Brandied Fruits 62 

Bread Making 17 

Bread, Boston Brown 21 

Bread, Buttermilk 22 

Bread Cake 23 

Bread, Coffee 23 

Bread, Corn 21 

Bread, Cream 20 

Bread of Fine Flour 19 

Bread, Fried 248 

Bread, Graham 20 

Bread, Kentucky Corn 21 

Bread, Milk 20 

Bread, Potato 20-21 

Bread, Rice 21 

Bread. Rye 20 

Bread Sauce 149 

Bread, Steamed Corn 22 

Bread, Western Corn 22 

Bread, without Yeast 19 

Breakfast Biscuit 22 

Breakfast, Etiquette of ,s88 

Breakfast Puffs 23 

Brine for Beef loi 

Broiling Meat 97 

Bronchitis. Remedy for 283 

Brook Trout, C. D 265 

Brown Betty 31 

Browned Flour for Soup 66 

Brushes and Combs. Care of 376 

Burns, Remedy for 284 

Buttermilk Bread 22 

Butter Sauce 148 



Cabbage I7S 

Cabbage, with Bacon 176 

Cabbage. Cream I75 

Cabbage Dressing IS7-I77 

Cabbage, Fried 175 

Cabbage and Onions 176 

Cabbage Salad 176 

Cabbage, Spiced 176 

Cabbage, Stuffed 175 

California Dish , 21 1 

Calf's Brains 109 

Calf's Foot Jelly 280 

Calf's Head a I'Anglaise in 

Calf's Head, Baked 108 

Calf's Head Soup 72 

Calf's Liver and Bacon 107 

Calf's Liver, Fried 107 

Calling Cards 427 

Calls, Etiquette of 392 

Cake, Rules for Making 38 

Cake. Bread 23 

Cake, Children's Party 43 

Cake, Christmas 43 

Cake, Cocoanut Pound 41 

Cake, Coffee 45 

Cake, Custard 45 

Cake, Delicate 42 

Cake, French Cream 41 

Cake Frosting 39 

Cake, Fruit, Dark 40 

Cake Glazing 39 

Cake. Gold 43 

Cake, Hickory-Nut 44 

Cake Icing 39 

Cake, Marble 42 

Cake, Newport 42 

Cake, Orange 42 

Cake, Pork 45 

Cake, Pound 41 

Cake, Rice 43 

Cake, Roll Jelly 41 

Cake, Scotch 43 . 

Cake, Silver - 43 

Cake, Spice 43 

Cake, Sponge 41 

Cake, Taylor 43 

Cake, Tea 43 

Cake, Virginia Apple 45 

Cake, Widow's 43 

Canapes a la Bismark 199 

Canapes. Savage Club 199 

Candied Fruit 54 

Candies 47 

Candy, Cocoanut 54 

Candy Making j:; 

Candy. Molasses 5"^ 

Candy, Sugar 5'^ 

Candles, Home Made 30'^ 

Canning Fruit jj 

Canning Tomatoes c^y 

Canning Vegetables 57 

Canning Whole Fruit 57 

Canvas-Back Duck 142 



INDEX. 



79 



Caper Sauce 14 ; 

Capers, True and Spurious 4_|o 

Capons 131 

Caramels, Chocolate 53 

Caramel Soup 65 

Cards, Styles of 427 

Carpet Rags, To Color 316 

Carpets, To Brighten 308 

Carpets, Cleaning 306 

Carpets, Laying 349 

Carpets, Renovating 352 

Carrots 180 

Carrots, Spring itSo 

Carving at Table 364 

Catsup 251 

Cauliflower 175-178 

Cauliflower and Cheese 178 

Cauliflower, Cream 179 

Celery 181 

Celery Dressing 157 

Celery Sauce 149 

Celery Soup Ti 

Cellar, The 348 

Cement, Recipe for 311 

Chafing Dish 259 

Chafing Dish Recipes 260 

Chamomile Tea 282 

Champagne Sauce I49 

Chapped Hands, Etc 310 

Charlote Russe 36-217 

Cheese Fondu 201 

Cheese Ramakins 203 

Cheese Straws 203 

Cherry Pudding 34 

Cherry Syrup 5' 

Chestnuts, French 202 

Chestnuts, Roasted 204 

Chickens 131 

Chicken a la Lyonnaise 136 

Chicken a la Reine i34 

Chicken a la Tartare 132 

Chicken, Baked : 131 

Chicken Blanquette, C. D 261 

Chicken, Boiled 131 

Chicken, Broiled 131 

Chicken, Creamed '34 

Chicken, Creamed, C. D 261 

Chicken, Curried "33 

Chicken, Escalloped '^3i 

Chicken Fillets 13S-130 

Chicken, Fricassee '32 

Chicken, Fried '3i 

Chicken, Frilot of ^^^ 

Chicken Halibut, C. D 267 

Chicken, Minced '30 

Chicken Pie '3V 

Chicken Pot-Pie '3o 

Chicken, Prairie '42 

Chicken, Pressed '33 

Chicken, Quenelles ;;«!?„ 

Chicken Salad '58-59 

Chicken Sautes '3'^ 

Chili Sauce '^- 



Chicken Soup 71 

Cheese, Souse 120 

Chicken Vol au Vent 133 

Children, Care of 274 

Children, Duties of 355 

Children, Exercise for 276 

Children, Study and Play : 276 

Chili Sauce 257 

Chocolate, for Cake 40 

Chocolate Caramels 53 

Chocolate and Cocoa 441 

Chocolate Cream 212 

Chocolate Custard 37 

Chocolate, How to jNIake 50 

Chops and Cutlets, for Convalescents 279 

Chow-Chow 253 

Chowder, Fish 85-230 

Christening, Etiquette of 406 

Christmas, Menu for 324 

Church, Etiquette 403 

Chutney 254 

Cider, With Pies 26 

Cinnamon, Pure 444 

Cinnamon Rolls 24 

Clam Soup 72 

Clams 88 

Clams, Stewed. C. D 265 

Cleaning Poultry 125 

Clothes, How to Care for 376 

Clothing, to Disinfect 287 

Clothes, Mending 37'^ 

Clothes-Pins, Preserving 300 

Cloves and Allspice — How to Test 44S 

Coal, Economy in 294 

Coal P'ires, Regulating 294 

Cockroaches, To Get Rid of 296 

Cocoanut Bread Pudding 37 

Cocoanut Cream 213 

Cod Fish 83 

Codfish Balls 87 

Codfish, Salt, C. D 267 

Cofifee 50 

Coffee Bread 23 

Coffee, Growing 442 

Coffee, Roasting 49 

Colic, Remedy for 284 

Coloring Dress Goods 312 

Coloring for Wood 315 

Colors from Barks 31S 

Colors, Table of 374 

Company in the Home 353 

Compote Apple 210 

Compote, Peach 210 

Cookery for Convalescents 279 

Cookery for Invalids 277 

Cookies 44 

Cookies, Ginger 44 

Coquilles de Volaille I94 

Corn, Boiling 170 

Corn IrSread 21 

Corn Dodger 2 ' 

Corn Oysters '7 ' 

Corn Pone 2r 



480 



INDEX. 



Corn Pudding 35-1/0 

Corned Beef 100-104-230 

Cotton, to Color 312 

Cotton Seed Oil 442 

Crab-Apple Jellj- 60 

Crabs 88 

Crabs, a la Crecjle, C. U 264 

Cranberry Pie 26 

Cream llechamcl SaL-.ce 153 

Cream Beer 52 

Cream Bread 20 

Cream of Pea Soup 68 

Cream Pie , 27 

Cream of Riee Soup 68 

Cream of 'i'artar Beer 51 

Cream Tomato Sjup 69 

Cream Whipped 3,7--'^- 

Creamed Chicken, C, !> 261 

Creamed Oysttrs, C, U 265 

Creams and Custards 37 

Creams 212 

Cream Almond 214 

Cream, Apple 214 

Cream, Artificial 50 

Cream, Banana 215 

Cream, Ijohemian 37 

Cream., Chocolate 213 

Cream, Cocoanut 213 

Cream Coffee 216 

Cream, Devonshire 30-213 

Cream, Genoese 212 

Cream, Hazelnut 214 

Cream, Ice 5^-53 

Cream, Italian 215 

Cream, Lemon 215 

Cream, Orange 216 

Cream, Persian 215 

Cream, Pineapple 212 

Cream, Pink 215 

Cream, Russian 214 

Cream, Velvet 213 

Cream, Walnut 214 

Creole Gumbo Soup 76 

Croutons 65 

Crocpiettes 194-248 

Croquettes, Chicken 194 

Croquettes, Chicken, C. D 261 

Croquettes, Egg 196 

Croquettes, Fish 196 

Croquettes, Green Corn ig6 

Croquettes, Ham 195 

Croquettes, Lobster 196 

Croauettes, Oyster 197 

Croquettes, Potato 195 

Croquettes, Rice 195-249 

Croquettes, Salmon 197-249 

Croquettes, Westphalia 196 

Cucumber Salad 161 

Cucumbers 184 

Cncumbrs, Fried 185 

Cucumbers, Puree of 188 

Curing Hams 124 

Curing Pork 124 



Curling Hair 309 

Currant Jelly 60 

Currants, Drying 61 

Curry Powder 66 

Curry of Rabbit 141 

Curtains, The 344 

Custards and Creams 37 

Custards 212 

Custard. Baked 217 

Custard. Boiled 217 

Custard, Chocolate 37-2^7 

Custard, Frozen 2,7 

Cymblings to Cook 173 

Damper in Stove 293 

Decorations for Dining Table 362 

Delicate Cake 42 

Delicate Pudding 36 

Delmonico's Recipe for Oyster Stew 94 

Deportment 379 

Deportment on Street 396 

Deviled Meat, C, D 269 

Devonshire Cream 30-213 

Digestible Pastry 25 

Digestion, Time for 278 

Dinner, How to Serve 383 

Dining-Room Furniture 344 

Dining-Room Service 362 

Disinfectants, How to Lse 290 

Disinfeding Bed Clothes 291 

Disinfection 287 

Doses, Table of . 287 

Doughnuts, Yankee 45 

Drawn Butter Sauce 150 

Dress, Taste in 370 

Dressing Cabbage 157 

Dressing, Celery 157 

Dressing Lettuce 157 

Dressing, Mayonnaise 156 

Dressing, Salad 155 

Dressing for Slaw 177 

Dressmaking 373 

Dried Beef, C, D 268 

Dried Peach Pudding 34 

Drop Cakes 42 

Drop Johnnies 45 

Drying Currants 61 

Drying Fruits 5S-6i 

Drying Plums 61 

Duchesse Potatoes 249 

Duck, Stew 142 

Ducks 142 

Dumplings 32 

Dumplings, Apple 33 

Dutch Sauce 150 

Dyeing 312 

Dyspepsia, Reir.edy for 283 

Dyspeptics, Pies for 25 

Economical Dish 247 

Economical Soup 68 

Eels, Broiled 89 

Egg Ball 66 



INDEX. 



481 



Egg- Plant 182 

Egg Sauce 151 

Eggs, Baked 241 

Eggs, Brown, C. D 262 

Eggs, With Cheese, C. D 263 

Eggs, With Curry, C. D 263 

Eggs, Fried 241 ' 

Eggs, Omelettes 241 

Eggs, Scrambled .' 241 

Eggs, Scrambled, C. D 262 

Eggs, Scrambled With Tomato, C, D 262 

Eggs, Side Dish of 248 

Eggs, Snow 202 

Eggs, Stirred, C, D 263 

English Plum Pudding 30 

Entertaining Visitors 354 

Equivalents, Table of 45 

Escalloped Chicken 133 

Escalloped Tongue 105 

Etiquette 379 

Etiquette, After Dinner 387 

Etiquette, Alphabet of 433 

Etiquette, Ball and Party 399 

Etiquette of Breakfast 388 

Etiquette of Calls 392 

Etiquette — 75 Cardinal Rules 430 

Etiquette of Christening ; 406 

Etiquette, Church 403 

Etiquette, Concerts, Etc 401 

Etiquette of Conversation 390 

Etiquette of Dining 380 

Etiquette, Dinner Costumes 381 

Etiquette of Family Dinners 384 

Etiquette of Funerals 405 

Etiquette, The Golden Rule 390 

Etiquette, How to Receive Guests 381 

Etiquette of Informal Dinners 381 

Etiquette of Introduction 396 

Etiquette, Party 400 

Etiquette, Philosophy of 379 

Etiquette, Riding and Driving 398 

Etiquette of the Road 410 

Etiquette, Rules of 4I4 

Etiquette— 100 Rules by George Washington 416 

Etiquette, Salutations 398 

Etiquette of Shopping 414 

Etiquette of Street 395 

Etiquette of Supper 388-400 

Etiquette at Table 363-,382 

Etiquette, Table Usages 384 

Etiquette, Things to Avoid 39° 

Etiquette in Washington 412 

Etiquette of Weddings 408 

Evening Parties 40i 

Every Dav Pies 27 

Every-Day Pudding 32 

Eve's Pudding 30 

Exercise for Children 276 

Extract of Beef 279 

Face Wash 309 

Fainting, Remedy for 283 

Fevers, Remedy for 283 



Fig Jelly 60 

Fig Pudding 34 

Figs of Tomatoes 62 

Fine Puff Paste 25 

Fish 78 

Fish, a la Creme 79 

Fish, Baked 79 

Fish, Baked Black 81 

Fish, Baked Sheepshead 82 

Fish, Baked Trout 82 

Fish, Baked White 79 

Fish Balls 88 

Fish, Blue 80 

Fish, Boiled 83 

Fish, Boiled Bass 80 

Fish, Broiled Shad 80 

Fish, Brook Trout. C. D 265 

Fish, Chicken Halibut, C. D 267 

Fish Chowder 85 

Fish, Clams 88 

Fish Cod 83 

Fish, Crabs 88 

Fish, Eels 89 

Fish, Fresh Mackerel 84 

Fish, Gurnet Baked 81 

Fish, Halibut 87 

Fish, How to Carve 367 

Fish, Lobsters 88 

Fish, Mullets 81 

Fish, Perch 85 

Fish, Pickerel 85 

Fish, Pike Boiled 84 

Fish, Red Mullet. Baked 81 

Fish, Red Snapper 85 

Fish, Rock 83 

Fish Salad 163 

Fish, Salmon 87 

Fish, Salt Codfish, C. D 267 

Fish, Salt Mackerel 84 

Fish, Shad Baked 80-81 

Fish. Shad Fried 80 

Fish, Shad Roe 80 

Fish, Silver 85 

Fish, Smelts 85 

Fish Soles 86 

Fish, Spanish Mackerel 84 

Fish Stew 83 

Fish, Stuffed and Baked 82 

Fish, .Sturgeon 82 

Fish, Turbot 83 

Fish, White, a la Point 79 

Flavoring Pickles, Etc 251 

Fli?s. To Get Rid of 297 

Floating Island 36-216 

Flour and Its Manufactnee 437 

Flowering Plants 454 

Flowers, Cultivation 448 

Flowers, List of 450 

Food Products 4,37 

Force Meat Balls, Soup 66 

Form of Invitations 4^1 

Form Letters 42S 

Fourth of July, Menu 324 



482 



INDEX. 



Fowl and Game for Convalescents -'79 

Fowl, How to Carve 365-366 

Fox RoLix 60 

Freckles, To Remove 309 

French Beef 100 

French Cream Cake 41 

French Gumbo Soup ^^ 

French ]\lustard O7 

French Ox Tail 75 

French Salad Dressing 156 

French Stew 250 

French White Sauce I47 

French Words and Phrases 428 

Fricasseed Beef 104 

Fricasseed Chicken 132 

Fried Cakes 45 

Fritters 189 

Fritters, Apple 1S9-190 

Fritters, Apricot 192 

Fritters, Banana lOi 

Fritters, Bell 1H9 

Fritters, Clam 191 

Fritters, Corn 190 

Fritters, Cream 191 

Fritters, Hominy 191 

Fritters, Orange 192 

Fritters, ' Oyster 192-238 

Fritters, Parsnip 190-2-i.g 

Fritters, Peach 192 

Fritters, Pineapple 193 

Fritters, Potato 189 

Fritters, Raw Potato 190 

Fritters, Rice 191 

Fritters, Spinach 190 

Fritters, Tomato 190 

Fritters, Wine 192 

Frogs 89 

Frog Saddles, C. D 261 

Frosting 39 

Frozen Custard 2,7 

Frozen Fruits 206 

Fruit Cake, Dark 40 

Fruit, Candied 54 

Fruit Canning 55 

Fruit Pickles 255 

Fruit Preserving 55 

Fruit Puddings 33 

Fruit, Rules for Preserving 55 

Fruit Short Cake 28 

Fruits, Brandied 62 

Fruits, Drying 5S-6i 

Fruits. Jellied 207 

Fudge, C. D 271 

Funerals. Etiquette of 405 

Furnishing the Home 342 

Furniture. Arrangement of 351 

Furniture in Home 341-342 

Furniture. To Mend 307 

Furs. Preserving 297 

Frying Meat 97 

Game 138 

Game. Duck 142 



Came, Partridges 139 

Game, Pheasants 143 

Game, Plover 143 

Game, Possum 146 

Game, Prairie Chicken 142 

Game, Quails 140 

Game, Rabbit 141 

Game, Reed Birds 144 

Game, Salmi of 145 

Game, Snipe 143 

Game, Venison 138 

Game, Wnd Turkey 138 

Game, Woodcock 143 

Garden Flowers 447 

Garden Shrubs 447 

Gems 17 

Gems, Graham 23 

General Debility, Remedy for 283 

Genoese Cream 212 

George Washington's 100 Rules of Life Gov't 416 

German Pul^f Paste 25 

Gherkin Sauce 153 

Giblet Pie I35-I37 

Ginger and Its Preparation 445 

Gin.gerbread 44 

Ginger Cake 44 

Ginger Cookies . 44 

Ginger Snaps 44 

Glass Jars for Canning 57 

Glaze 67 

Glazing for Cake ; 39 

Glue, Recipe for 311 

Glue, Waterproof 311 

Gold Cake 43 

Goody Cakes 43 

Gooseberry Jam 59 

Goose, Roast 130 

Graham Bread 20 

Graham Gems 23 

Grandmother's Strawberry Short Cake .... 28 

Grape Jelly 60 

Grapes, Preserved With Honey 62 

Grasses, Ornamental 473 

Greens 176 

Green Corn 170 

Green Corn Patties 170 

Green Pea Soup 70 

Green Pickles 253 

Griddle Cakes 45 

Gruel, C. D 272 

Gruels for Convalescents 281 

Guests of the House " 353 

Guinea Fowls 144 

Gumbo Soup y-j 

Gurnet, Baked 81 

Hair, Care of 375 

Hair, Cleansing the 310 

Hair, How to Curl 309 

Hair, Tonic for 309 

FTalibiit 87 

Halifax Soup . . 74 

Ham, Baked 236 



INDEX. 



483 



Ham, Boiled 123 

Ham, Broiled 1^3 

Ham, Fried 123 

Ham With Madeira 122 

Ham with Spinach 123 

Hams, Curing 124 

Hamburg Steak 102 

Hamburg Steak, C. D 271 

Hare Soup 73 

Health, First Principles of 273 

Health, How to Preserve 273 

Heating the Oven 20 

Hemorrhages, Remedy for 283 

Hen's Nest 33 

Herbs for Winter 66 

Herring Salad (German) 163 

Herring Sauce IS4 

Hickory-Nut Cake 44 

Hints to Dinnergivers 387 

Hollandaise Sauce 84-147 

Home Beautiful, The 344 

Home Decorating 358 

Home Doctor 2S3 

Home Furnishing 342 

Home Made Bitters 52 

Hominy, To Boil I74 

Hominy, Large i74 

Hominy Pudding 32 

Hop Tea 282 

Hop Yeast 18 

Horseradish Sauce ISI 

Horseradish Vinegar ■ 257 

Hotch Potch 233 

Hours for Meals 389 

House Cleaning 306 

' Housecleaning, Economy in 35' 

Household Art 34i 

Household Economv 292 

Household Hints 307 

Household Taste 34i 

How to Boil 337 

How to Brandy Fruits 62 

How to Broil 236 

How to Carve 364 

How to Cultivate Flowers 448 

How to Cut Meats 328 

How to Dress 37° 

How to Fry 236 

How to Kalsomine 350 

How to Make Brown Sauce 244 

How to Make Chocolate 5° 

How to Make Coffee 50 

How to Make Egg Sauce 242 

How to Make Pastry for Meat Pies .239 

How to Make Soup "3-74 

How to Make Tea 49 

How to Make White Sauce 244 

How to Mend Clothes 37i 

How to Mix Mustard 67 

How to Paper Walls 304 

How to Prepare Oysters 238 

How to Preserve Fruit 56 

How to Roast 23s 



How to Select Fish 78 

14ow to Select Flour 17 

How to Stew 338 

How to Serve Dinner 383 

How to Serve Luncheon 389 

How to Serve Wines 386 

How to Treat Weak Patients 277 

How to Use Chafing Dish 259 

Hysteria, Remedy for 283 

Ices 47 

Ice, Apricot 225 

Ice, Currant 225 

Ice, Lemon 224 

Ice, Orange 225 

Ice, Pineapple 225 

Ice, Raspberry 225 

Ice Cream 52-53-218-221 

Ice Cream, Apricot 219 

Ice Cream, Banana 220 

Ice Cream, Bisque 223 

Ice Cream, Caramel 223 

Ice Cream, Chocolate 219 

Ice Cream, Cocoanut 219 

Ice Cream, Coffee 220 

Ice Cream, French 221 

Ice Cream, Fruit .218-222 

Ice Cream Icing 40 

Ice Cream Italian 222 

Ice Cream, Lemon 221 

Ice Cream Nessclrode 220 

Ice Cream, Peach 220 

Ice Cream, Pistachio 222 

Ice Cream, Strawberry 219 

Ice Cream, Tea 220 

Ice Cream, Tutti Frutti 222 

Ice Cream., Vanilla 220 

Icing for Cake 39 

Imperial Salad 162 

Indelible Ink 311 

Infants, Feeding of 274 

Inflammation, Remedy for 285 

Inks, Home Made 310 

Introductions 396 

Invitation to Dinner 421 

Irish Stew 231 

Ironing Clothes 300 

Ivory, How to Whiten 309 

Jam 58 

Jam, Apple 59 

Jam, Gooseberry 59 

Jam, Spiced 59 

Jam, Raspberry 59 

Jam, .Strawberry 59 

Jellies 59 

Jellv, Crab Apple 60 

Jelly, Currant 60 

Jelly, Fig 60 

Jelly, Grape 60 

Jelly of Meat for Convalescents 280 

Jellv, To Make 129 



484 



INDEX. 



Jellied Fruits 207 

Julienne Soup 6g 

Kalsominmg 305 

Kentucky Corn Bread 21 

Kerosene, Uses of 298 

Kidneys, Stewed 108 

Kitchen, a Perfect ;i23 

Kitchen Economy 293 

Kitchen Furniture 346 

Kitchen Utensils 334 

Krout, Sour 178 

Lady Fingers 42 

Lamb 113 

Lamb a L'Hotel 116 

Lamb, Breast of 115 

Lamb, Breast of, with Peas 117 

Lamb, Broiled 231 

Lamb Chops, Breaded 116 

Lamb Chops, C. D 268 

Lamb Curry, C. D 268 

Lamb, Flavoring 117 

Lamb's Head 117 

Lamb, How to Cut 330 

Lamb, Saddle of 116 

Lamb Steaks 116 

Lamb, with Tomato, C. D 268 

Lard, Pork 121 

Laundry, The 299 

Laxative, Remedy for 284 

Laying Carpets 349 

Letters of Acceptance 422 

Letters of Introduction 424 

Letters of Recommendation 424 

Letter Writers, Suggestions 426 

Lemonade 51-282 

Lemon Pie 27 

Lemon Sauce 153 

Lemon, Syrup of '62 

Lettuce Dressing 157 

Library, The : 353 

Lima Beans 171 

Linseed Tea 282 

Liver and Bacon, C. D 269 

Lobsters 88 

Lobster a la Newberg t6i 

Lobster a la Newberg, C. D 266 

Lobster, Curried, C. D 266 

Lobster on Toast, C. D 264 

Lobster Patties, C. D 266 

Lobster Salad 159 

Lobster Sauce 148 

Lobster Soup 73 

Loss of Sleep, Remedy for 285 

Luncheon Invitation 389 

Macaroni 182 

Macaroni au Gratin 185 

Macaroni, with Cheese 186-249 

Macaroni, with Mushrooms 183 

Macaroni, ivith Oysters 185 

Macaroni Soup 76 



Maitre D'Hotel Sauce igo 

?,Iaize and its Products 438 

Marble Cake 42 

Marble, How to Clean 295 

Marmalade 58 

Marmalade, Apple 58 

Marmalade, Orange 58 

IMarmalade, Peach 58 

Marmalade, Plum 58 

Marmalade, Quince 58 

Marmalade, Strawberry 58 

Matelote of Eels 89 

Mayonnaise Dressing 156 

Meal, Hours 389 

Meats 95 

Meat, Broiling 97 

JMeat, Choice parts 332 

Meat, Component parts of 335 

Meat for Convalescents 280 

Meats, Curing ' 124 

Meats, Cutting 328 

Meat, Deviled, C. D 269 

Meat, Frying 97 

Meat, How to Carve 364 

Meat, How to Keep 327 

Meat, Lamb, C. D 268 

Meat, Lamb Chops, C. D 268 

Meat, Mutton, C. D 268 

Meat Pies, Ingredients for 240 

Meat Pot Pie 239 

Meat, Roast 234 

Meat, Roasting 96 

Meat Room 327 

Meat, Rules for Boiling 95 

Meat, Vegetables with 336 

Melange Glace 207 

Melted Butter, To Make 242 

Menus 318 

Menu for Autumn 321 

Menu for Christmas 324 

Menu, New Year's Day 323 

Menu for Spring 318 

Menu for Summer 319 

Menu for Thanksgiving 324 

Menu for Winter 322 

Mignonette Pepper 67 

Milk Bread 20 

Mince Pies 26 

Mmced Chicken 136 

Minced Liver 249 

Mint Sauce 148 

Mixed Pickles 254 

Mock Turtle 75 

Mock Turtle Soup 75 

Molasses Candy 53 

Moonshine 205 

Moths, To get rid of 297 

Mulligatawny Soup 72 

Mushrooms 182 

Mushrooms, au Gratin 183 

Mushrooms, with Bacon, C. D 270 

Mushrooms, Broiled 183 

Mushrooms, Cooking 250 



INDEX. 



485 



Mushrooms, Puree of i88 

Mushroom Sauce 150 

Mushrooms, Testing 250 

Mustard, French 67 

Mustard, To Mix 67-257 

Mutton 113 

Mutton, Boiled Leg 114 

Mutton, Boned Leg 114 

Mutton, Breast of 114 

Mutton Chops 115 

Mutton, Curry, C. D.'. 268 

Mutton Cutlets 114 

Mutton Cutlets a la Duchess 115 

Mutton, To Cut up 329 

Mutton, Roast Leg 113 

Mutton, Roast Shoulder 113 

Mutton, When Best 329 

Napkins, Folding 369 

Napkins, Uses of _. . 369 

Nasturtium Sauce 150 

Newport Cake 42 

New Year's Day Menu 323 

Nice Cake 42 

Noodles 65 

Noodle Soup 72 

Notions 22 

Nursery Bathing 274 

Nurse, Qualifications 277 

Nutmegs and Mace 445 

Oat Meal Porridge 30 

Oats and their Prpducts 438 

Okra 184 

Okra Soup 69 

Omelettes 241 

Omelet, Beef 103 

Omelet, Cheese, C D 263 

Omelet, Plain, C. D 263 

Onion and Meat Stew 232 

Onion Sauce 15° 

Onions, Baked 169 

Onions, Boiled 169 

Onions and Cabbage 176 

Onions, Fried 170 

Onions, Puree of 187 

Onions, Stewed 169 

Onions, Stuffed Spanish 169 

Oranges 210 

Orangeade 282 

Orange Cake 42 

Orange Marmalade 58 

Orange Pudding 36 

Orange Salad 209 

Ornamenting Cake 39 

Oven, Heating the 20 

Oxford Dumplings 32 

Ox Tail a la Tartare 113 

Ox Tail Soup 70 

Ox Tail, Stewed 112 

Ox Tongue "2 

Oysters ,• • -78-90 

Oyster Pattees 300 



Oyster Plant, Fried 182 

Oyster Saute 93 

Oyster Sauce 149 

Oyster Soup 71 

Oyster Stew 91 

Oysters a la Crcme 94 

Oysters, Broiled 92-93 

Oysters, Creamed, C. D 265 

Oysters, Delmonico's Recipe 94 

Oysters, Fried 92-238 

Oysters on Ice 93 

Oysters, Roast 91 

Oysters, Scalloped 94 

Oysters, Steamed 93 

Oysters, Stewed, C. D 265 

Oysters, Vegetable 181 

Oysters, Virginia Stew 91 

Painting the Home 305 

Pancakes 17 

Parlor, The 353 

Parlor, Decorating the 356 

Parlor Etiquette 353 

Parlor Furniture 343 

Parsley .Sauce 151 

Parsnips 180 

Partridges 139 

Partridge Pie 144 

Paste, Brioche 239 

Paste, Fine Puff 25 

Paste, German Puff 25 

Paste, Light Plain 240 

Paste, Plain 25 

Paste, Recipe for 312 

Pastry and Pudding 25 

Patties 199 

Patties, Chicken 200 

Patties, Lobster 200 

Patties, Lobster, C. D 266 

Patties, Oyster 200 

Patties, Veal 200 

Peach Marmalade 58 

Peach Pie 26-27 

Peaches and Cream 209 

Peaches, Frozen 206 

Peas, Dried 171 

Peas, Green 171 

Peas, To Prepare 171 

Peas, Puree of 186 

Pea Soup 70 

Peas, Steamed 171 

Pecans, Salted 203 

Pepper Mignonette 67 

Pepper, Pot 76 

Pepper, Production of 444 

Perch, Fried 85 

Petits Choux 208 

Pheasants 143 

Piccalilli 254 

Pickerel, Fried 85 

Pickled Red Cabbage 252 

Pickles 251 

Pickles, Chow-Chow 253 



186 



INDEX. 



Pickles, Green 253 

Pickles, Indian 252 

Pickles, Mixed 254 

Pickles, Quick 252 

Pickles, Sweet 25s 

Pickles, Sweet Green 256 

Pictures 343 

Pie, Apple 26 

Pie, Apple Custard 28 

Pie, Chicken 134-240 

Pie, Cranberry 26 

Pie, Cream 27 

Pies for Dyspeptics 25 

Pies, Every-Day 27 

Pie, Giblet I35-I37 

Pie, Giblet, with Oysters 240 

Pie, Lemon 27 

Pie, Mince 26 

Pie, Partridge 144 

Pie, Peach 26-27 

Pie, Plain Pumpkin 28 

Pie, Potato 28 

Pie, Pumpkin 25 

Pie, Quail 145 

Pie, Raisin 27 

Pie, Rhubarb 26 

Pie, Squirrel 14S 

Pie, Veal 211 

Pie, Venison 144 

Pies, with Cider 26 

Pies, without Cider 26 

Pigeons 140 

Pigs, in Blankets, C. D 264 

Pigs Feet 122 

Pig, Roast 119 

Pike, Boiled 84 

Pineapple-Bavarian Cream 212 

Pineapple Short Cake 29 

Pinou-Chi (Candy), C. D 271 

Piquante Sauce 154 

Plain Apple Pudding 34 

Plain Paste 25 

Plain Pumpkin Pie 28 

Plain Sauce 29 

Plantins, Baked 20S 

Plantins, Fried 208 

Plants, All Kinds 448 

Plants, To Fumigate 359 

Plover 143 

Plum Marmalade 58 

Plums, Drying 61 

Plums, Preserved 61 

Poisons, and Antidotes 2S9 

Pork 118 

Pork, Backbone Pie t2i 

Pork, Barbecue Shoat 121 

Pork and Beans 173 

Pork Cake 45 

Pork, Chine 119 

Pork, Cooling 327 

Pork, Curing 124 

Pork, Fillet of 118 

Pork, Hanging 327 



Pork, How to Cut 328 

Pork Lard 121 

Pork, Leg of 119 

Pork, Roast 118 

Pork, Salt 121 

Pork, Sausage 121 

Pork, Spareribs 119 

Pork Steaks 119 

Pork Tenderloin 120 

Pork, Testing 327 

Pork and Turnips 184 

Porridge, Oatmeal 30 

Possum 146 

Potatoes a L'Anglaise 167 

Potatoes a la Maitre D'Hotel 165 

Potatoes a la Provincale '. 166 

Potatoes, Baked 165 

Potatoes, Boiled 164 

Potato Bread 20-21 

Potato Cakes 167 

Potatoes, Creamed 165 

Potatoes, Creamed, C. D 267 

Potato Croquettes 195 

Potato Crusts 240 

Potatoes, with Eggs 249 

Potatoes, French Fried 166 

Potatoes, Fried Sweet 167 

Potato Fritters 189 

Potatoes, Kentucky 166 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise 166 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise, C. D 267 

Potatoes, Mashed 165 

Potatoes, New 165 

Potato Pie 28 

Pot Pie, Fowl 240 

Potatoes and Products 439 

Potato Puddings 31 

Potato Puffs 166 

Potatoes, Puree of 187 

Potatoes, Quirled 167 

Potato Salad 160-161-246 

Potato Saute, C. D 268 

Potatoes, Saratoga 165 

Potatoes, Scalloped 164 

Potatoes, Sweet 167 

Potatoes, Sweet, Grilled, C. D 267 

Potatoes, Timbale of 166 

Potato Yeast 19 

Poultry 125 

Pound Cake 41 

Prairie Chicken 142 

Preserved Grapes, with Honey 62 

Preserved Plum.s 61 

Preserving Fruits 55 

Preserving in Sugar 57 

Pressed Beef 103 

Pressed Chicken 133 

Puddings 33-34-35-36-37 

Pudding, Apple Tappioca 33 

Pudding, Bachelor's ^y 

Pudding, Bird's Nest 35 

Pudding, Boiled Grape 34 

Pudding, Cherry 34 



INDEX. 



487 



Pudding, Cocoanut Bread 27 

Pudding, Corn 35 

Pudding, Delicate 36 

Pudding. Dried Peach 34 

Pudding, Englisli Plum 30 

Pudding, Every-Day 22 

Pudding, Eve's 36 

Pudding, Fig 34 

Pudding, Fruit ^i 

Pudding, Hominy 32 

Puddings for Invalids 2S1 

Pudding, Orange 36 

Pudding. Plain Apple 34 

Puddings, Potato 31 

Pudding, Quaker ^2 

Pudding, Rice 35 

Pudding. Rizena 35 

Puddings and Sauces 29 

Pudding, Spice 36 

Pudding, Steamed 32 

Pudding, Suet •. 32 

Pudding, Sweet Aople 34 

Pudding, Yorkshire 32 

Puffs. Breakfast 23 

Pumpkin Pie 25 

Pure Water 47 

Puree Soup 67 

Putty, How to Soften 306 

Quails 140 

Quail, C. D 260 

Quail Pie i45 

Quail on Toast 140 

Quaker Pudding 32 

Quenelles, Chicken -. i97 

Quenelles, Veal 198 

Quince Marmalade 58 

Rabbit 140 

Rabbit, Broiled 141 

Rabbit. Roast 141 

Rabbit Stew 141 

Radishes 178 

Raised Biscuits 22 

Raisin Pie 27 

Rarebit. Welsh, C. D 270 

Raspberries, Preparing 206 

Raspberry Jam 59 

Raspberry Vinegar 257 

Ratafias '. 268 

Red Mullet, Baked 81 

Red Snapper 85 

Reed Birds i44 

Remedies for Sick Room 283 

Removing Stains from Clothing 300 

Rendering Lard 121 

Restoring Color 300 

Restoring Furniture 308 

Rhubarb Pie 26 

Rib Boast of Beef 99 

Rice 174 

Rice, To Boil 231 

Rice Bread 21 



Rice Cake 43 

Rice Pudding 35 

Rice Pudding, without Eggs 35 

Rice Soup 68 

Riding and Driving 398 

Rizena Pudding 35 

Roast Beef 98 

Roast, Pan, C. D 265 

Roast Pig iig 

Roasting Coffee 49 

Roasting for Invalids 279 

Roasting Meat 96 

Roll Jelly Cake 41 

Rolls and Biscuit 17 

Rolls, Cinnr.mon 24 

Rolls and Rusks 24 

Rolls, Split 24 

Roly Poly '. .' ■ loi 

Roses, All Kinds 455 

Rough on Grease 308 

Round of Beef 100 

Rules for Boiling xAIe-tt 95 

Rules for Mailing Cake 38 

Rules for Preserving Fruit 55 

Rules for Traveling 412 

Russian Cream 214 

Russian Salad 162 

Rye Bread 20 

Rye and Its Products 437 

Sa.eo and Tapioca 440 

Sa!=>f'^ - 155-245 

Salad. Banana 208 

Salad, Chicken 158-159 

Salad. Cucumber 161 

Salad Dressing 15c 

Salad Dressing, without Oil 158 

Salad. Fish 163 

Salad, French Vegetable 246 

Salad. Herring (German) 163 

Salad, Imperial 162 

Salad, Lettuce 246 

Salad, Lobster 159 

Salad. Orange 209 

Salad. Oyster 247 

Salad, Potato 160-161 

Salad, Russian 162 

Salad, Salmon 160 

Salad, Shrimp 160 

Salad, Tomato 161 

Salad, Veal 162 

Salad, Water Cress 163 

Salsify 181 

Salsify, Fried 181 

Salt Hop Yeast 19 

Salt Rising Bread ip 

Salted Almonds 204 

Salted Almonds, C. D 271 

Salted Pecans 203 

Salmi of Game J45 

Salmi of Woodcock, C. D 260 

Salmon 87 

Salmon Salad i^ 



488 



INDEX. 



Sandwiches 249 

Sardines on Toast, C. D 266 

Sauces 29-147-243 

Sauce Allemande I54 

Sauce, Anchovy 14S 

Sauce, Boiled Pudding 29 

Sauce, Bordelaise I53 

Sauce, Bread I49 

Sauce, Butter 14!^ 

Sauce, Caper 148 

Sauce, Celery I49 

Sauce, Champagne I49 

Sauce, Chili 152 

Sauce, Creme Bechamel I53 

Sauce, Drawn Butter 150 

Sauce, Dutch 150 

Sauce, Egg 151 

Sauce Elegante ISI 

Sauce for Barbecues I54 

Sauce for Boiled jNIeats 231 

Sauce for Calf's Head 151 

Sauce for Cold IN'Ieat 244-245 

Sauce for Hen's Nest 33 

Sauces for Puddings , 29 

Sauce, Gherkin 153 

Sauce, Herring 154 

Sauce Hollandaise 1*47 

Sauce, Horseradish 151 

Sauce, Lemon i53 

Sauce, Lobster 148 

Sauce, Maitre D'Hotel 150 

Sauce Mayonaise 245 

Sauce, Mint 148 

Sauce, !\Iushroom 150 

Sauce. Nasturtium 150 

Sauce, Onion 1 50-244 

Sauce, Oyster i49 

Sauce, Parsley 151 

Sauce, Piquante I54 

Sauce, Shrimp 151 

Sauce, Tartare i49 

Sauce, Tomato I47 

Sauce, White 29-147 

Sauce, White, C. D 260 

Sauce, Wild Fowl i53 

Sauce, Wine 29-152-244 

Sausage. Pork 121 

Scalloped Oysters 94 

Scallop of Fowl 137 

Schwammichen Soup 73 

Scotch Cake 43 

Servants 355 

Service of the Table 368 

Shad, Baked 80-81 

Shad, Broiled 80 

Shad, Fried 80 

Shad Roe 80 

Sheepshead, Baked 82 

Sherbet 283 

Sherbet, Lemon 224 

Sherbet. Milk 224 

Sherbet, Pineapple 223 

Sherbet, Pink 224 



Sherbet, Strawberry 223 

Sherbet, Watermelon 224 

Short-Cake 44 

Short-Cake, Fruit 28 

Short-Cake, Pineapple 29 

Short-Cake, Grandmother's, Strawberry 28 

Short-Cake, Strawberry 20 

Shrimp Salad 160 

Shrimp Sauce 151 

Shrubs, Flowering 457 

Silver Cake 43 

Silver, How to Clean 303 

Sick Room 276 

Sick Room. Disinfecting 289 

Slaw, Dressing for 177 

Slaw, Hot 177 

Slaw, To Prepare 177 

Slaw, Warm 177 

Smelts, C. D 266 

Smells, Fried 85 

Snaps, with Bacon 176 

Snipe 143 

Snow Birds 144 

Snow Custard 204 

Snow Eggs 202 

Soaps, Home Made 302 

Soda Cakes 44 

Soft Gingerbread 44 

Soft Water 348 

Sores, Remedy for 284 

Soles a la Colbert 86 

Soles, Fried 86 

Soles, La Gratin 86 

Souffle, Apple 35-205 

Souffle, Cold Cheese 198 

Souffle, Iced Savory 198 

Souffle, Lemon 205 

Souffle, Tomato 198 

Soups 68 

Soup. Asparagus 70 

Soup, Bean 70-228 

Soup, Black Bean 6g 

Soup, Bouillon 75 

Soup, Bouillon, C. D 260 

Soup, Cabbage 227 

Soup, Cal f 's Head 72 

Soup, Caramel 65 

Soup, Celery 72 

Soup, Chicken 71 

Soup, Clam 72-229 

Soup, Clear Beef 226 

Soup Coloring 6s 

Soup, Corn 227 

Soup, Consomme 63 

Soup, Creole Gumbo 76 

Soup, Cream of Clam. C. D 262 

Soup, Creami of Peas 68 

Scup, Cream of Rice 68 

Soup, Cream Tomato 69 

Soup, Croutons 66 

Soup. Economical 68 

Soup, Eel 229 

Soup, Fish , . 228 



INDEX. 



489 



Soup, French Gumbo 77 

Soup, French Ox Tail 75 

Soup, from Stock 64 

Soup, Green Pea 70 

Soup, Gumbo 77 

Soup, Halifax 74 

Soup, Hare 73 

Soup, How to Make 74 

Soup, Julienne 69 

Soup, Lobster 73 

Soup, Macaroni 76 

Soup, Mock Turtle 75 

Soup, Mutton Broth 227 

Soup, Mulligatawny 72 

Soup, Noodle 72 

Soup, Oyster 71 

Soup, Okra 69-227 

Soup, Ox Tail ^(> 

Soup, Oyster, Plain 229 

Soup, Oyster, Rich 229 

Soup, Pea 70-228 

Soup, Pepper Pod 76 

Soup, Puree 68 

Soup, Rice 68 

Soup, Schwammichen 73 

Soup, Stanley 74 

Soup Stock 64-233 

Soup, Swiss li 

Soup, To Clarify 233 

Soups, To Color 234 

Soup, Tomato 68 

Soup, Turtle 74 

Soup, Vegetable 70-226 

Soup, Vermicelli 72 

Sour Krout 178 

Sour Pickles, Cucumbers 251 

Souse, Cheese 120 

Spanish Mackerel 84 

Spices 444 

Spiced Beef 98 

Spice Cake 43 

Spiced Jam 59 

Spice Pudding 36 

Spinach i79 

Spinach, Puree of 186 

Spinach, with Cream i79 

Split Rolls 24 

Sponge Bread 18 

Sponge Cake 4I 

Sponge Gingerbread 44 

Spring, Menu for 3i8 

Spruce Beer 5i 

Squabs i40 

Squash, Summer 172 

Squash. Winter 172 

Squirrel Pie i45 

Staffordshire Beefsteak 103 

Stanley Soup 74 

Starching Clothes 300 

Steak, Venison I39 

Steamed Dishes 242 

Steamed Oysters 93 

Steamed Pudding 32 



Stimulants, Efifect of 277 

Stomach Ache, Infants, Remedy for 283 

Stoves. Care of 295 

Stuffed Fish 82 

Sturgeon, Baked 82 

Strawberries, Frozen 206 

Strawberry Jam 59 

Strawberry Marmalade 58 

.Strawberries, Preparing 20^ 

Strawberry Short-Cake 28 

Strawberry Tarts 28 

Succotash 173 

Suet Pudding 32 

Sugar Candy 53 

Summer Drinks SI 

Summer, Menu for 319 

Summer Squash 172 

Supper Parties 388 

Sweet-Apple Pudding 34 

Sweetbreads 109 

Sweetbreads Bechamel no 

Sweetbreads, Blanquette 118 

Sweetbreads, Broiled no 

Sweetbreads, Broiled, C. D 270 

Sweetbreads, Creamed no 

Sweetbreads, Larded no 

Sweetbreads, Stewed ill 

Sweetbreads, with Mushrooms no 

Sweetbreads, with Peas, C. D 270 

Sweet Potatoes, Baked 167 

Sweet Potatoes, Grilled, C. D 267 

Sweet Potatoes, Sliced 167 

Sweeping 304 

Swiss Soup 73 

Syllabub 20S 

Syllabub, Cake 204 

Syrups 60 

Syrup, Blackberry 61 

Syrup, Cherry , 51 

Syrup of Lemons 62 

Table of Colors 374 

Table of Equivalents 45 

Table Etiquette 363 

Table of Foods 277 

Tamarinds 446 

Tapioca Pudding 33 

Tartare Sauce 149 

Tarts 28 

Tart Crusts 28 

Tarts, Strawberry 28 

Taylor Cake 43 

Tea Cake 43 

Tea, Chamomile 282 

Tea, Hop 282 

Tea, How to Make 49 

Tea, How Produced 442 

Tea, Linseed 282 

Tenderloin, Pork 120 

Terrapin 90 

Terrapin, C. D 264 

Thanksgiving Day Menu 324 

Timbale of Potatoes 249 



490 



INDEX. 



Time for Digestion 278 

Tin Covers, To clean 296 

Toilet Recipes 309 

Toilet Room and Bath 374 

Tomatoes 168 

Tomato Beer 52 

Tomato Chow-Chow 254 

Tomato Salad 161 

Tomato Sauce 147-257 

Tomato Soup 68 

Tomato Soup, C. D 264 

Tomatoes a la Creme 168 

Tomatoes, Baked 168 

Tomatoes, Broiled 169 

Tomatoes, Canning 57 

Tomatoes, Figs of 62 

Tomatoes, Fried 168 

Tomatoes, Puree of 187 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 168 

Tomaties, Stewed 168 

Tongue, Boiled 108 

Tongue, Braised 112 

Trees, Flowering 468 

Trellises for Plants 474 

Trifle, Grand 202 

Tripe, To Prepare iii 

Tripe, Stewed 248 

Tripe, with Tomatoes ill 

Trout, Baked 82 

Truffles 182 

Trussing, Poultry 125 

Turbot a la Creme 83 

Turkey, Boiled 127-230 

Turkey, Boned 127 

Turkey, Braised 127 

Turkey, Fowl 235 

Turkey, Galantine 129 

Turkey, How to Carve 365 

Turkey, Jellied 128 

Turkey, Pressed 130 

Turkey, Rechauffe of, C. D 262 

Turkey, Roast 125-126 

Turkey, Steamed 127-230 

Turkey, Tenderloin 130 

Turkey, Wild 138 

Turnips 184 

Turnips. Puree of 187 

Turtle Soup 74 

Turtle Stew 90 

Under Garments 375 

Use of Glass Jars 57 

Veal 105 

Veal Cheese 201 

Veal Chops 107 

Veal Cutlets 106 

Veal, Cutting up 331 

Veal, Fillet of 106-107 

Veal, Fricandeau of 108 

Veal, Olives 106 

Veal Pie 211 

Veal, Roast 105 



Veal Salad 162 

Veal, Sausage 106 

Veal Steaks 106 

Veal Steak, Oyster Sauce 108 

Veal, with Asparagus Tips, C. D 269 

Vegetables 164 

Vegetables, Canning 57 

Vegetables, Facts about 368 

Vegetables, Potatoes 164-165-166-167 

Vegetable Soup 70 

Vegetables, with Meats 336 

Velvet Cream 213 

Venison, Haunch of 138 

Venison Pie 144 

Venison, Roast Saddle 235 

Venison Steak 139 

Vermicelli Soup 72 

Vines, Flowering 465 

Virginia Apple Cake 45 

Visiting Cards 393 

Vulgarity 355 

Walnut Coloring 315 

Warts, Remedy for Removing 283 

Washing Dishes 293 

Washing, Helps in 299 

Washing Meats 95 

Waste Paper, Use of 295 

Water Cresses Salad 163 

Water Ices 52-53 

Water, Impurities in 289 

Water, Pure 47 

Water Supply 348 

Water, Well 47 

Watermelon Tea 209 

Wedding Ceremony 409 

Wedding Engagements 408 

Well Water 47 

Welsh Rarebit 200-201 

Welsh Rarebit, C. D 270-271 

Western Corn Bread 22 

Westphalia Ham 122 

What to do at Table 386 

What to Wear 372 

When to go to Bed 354 

Whey, White Wine 282 

Whipped Cream 37-212 

White Fish a la Point 79 

White Sace 29-147 

White Sauce, C. D 260 

White Stock Soup 64 

White Sugar Candy 53 

Whitewash, How to Mix 351 

Whitewashing 350 

Widow's Cake 43 

Wild Fowl Sauce 153 

Wild Turkey. Braised 138 

Wild Turkey. Plain 138 

Window Plants 346 

Window Sashes 308 

Wine Sauce 29-152 

Wines at Dinners 386 



INDEX. 



491 



Wines, Home Made 310 Worcestershire Sauce 256 

Winter, Menu for 322 

Wood, Grease Spots on 296 Yankee Doughnuts, Raised 45 

Woodcock 143 Yeast Cakes 18 

Woodcock, Salmi of, C. D 260 Yeast and Yeast Making 18 

Woolen Goods, Coloring 314 Yorkshire Pudding 33 



/ / 



y 



y 



