Mfi 


Cookeing 
Book 


Cornell  University  Library 
TX  717.3.G55 

The  Glasgow  cookery  book  / 


3  1924  000  657  647 


HOTEL     ADMINISTRATION 
LIBRARY 

AT  CORNELL     UNIVERSITY 


THE      GIFT      OF 

Mr,   &  Mrs.   Carl  A.   Rietz 


DATE  DUE 


mm: 


m^ 


PRINTED  IN  U.S   A. 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  tliis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000657647 


THE 


®la0g0to  ffioakerg  ^nok 


ISSUED      BY 

The  Glasgow  and  West  of  Scotland  College 
of  Domestie  Seienee  (Incorporated) 

FOR      USE      IN 

THE     COLLEGE. 

Price  5/-  Nett. 

Per  Post  5/6       . 

I 

■HOTEL  ADMINISHATION 
LIBRARY 


PRINTED    BY    N.    ADSHEAD    &    SON, 
34-36    CADOGAN    STREET, 
GLASGOW. 


/3f90 


The  Glasgow  and   West  of  Scotland  College 

of    Domestic    Science    (Incorporated). 


The    Subjects    taught    are: — Cookebt,    Lackdbt    Work, 

HoDSEwiPEKT,  Dressmaking,  Needlework,  Millinery, 
Sick  Nursing,  Hygiene,  Book-Keeping,  Upholstery, 
DiEa?ETics,  Electricity. 

Students  are  received  for  any  number  of  lessons  or 
courses,  and  may  be  boarded  at  the  Hostel. 

Teachers   are  trained  for  the  following  Diplomas:— 

1.  Cooking,  Laundry  Work,  and  Housewifery  (in 
eluding  such  Needlework  as  pertains  thereto). 

2.  Dressmaking,  Needlework,  and  Millinery. 

3.  Cookery,  Laundrywork,  Housewifery,  Dress 
MAKING  and  Needlework. 

The  Diplomas  granted  are  recognised  by  the 

Board  of  Education. 

Sister  Tutor's  and  Dietitian's  Courses 

(Diploma  and  Certificate). 

Certificate  Courses  are  held  for  Lady  Housewives,  Lady 
Housekeepers,  Cooks,  Laundresses,  Dressmakers,  etc. 

Medal  Courses  for  Cordon  Bleu  and  Needlecraft. 

Prospectus  giving  full  details  as  to  days,  hours,  and 
fees  of  Classes,  and  all  particulars,  may  be  had  on 
application. 


All  communications  to  be  addressed  to  the  Principal. 


Packets  and  Books  of  Printed  Recipes  for  Sale 
at  the  College,  Park  Drive,  C.3. 


PREFACE. 


nr"HIS  book  has  been  compiled  specially  for 
the  use  of  students  in  training. 


The  Eecipes  are  those  which  have  been 
successfully  used  for  many  years,  and  have  been 
proved  therefore  to  be  essentially  practical. 

This,  the  fourteenth  edition  of  the  Glasgow 
Cookery  Book,  has  been  carefully  revised  and 
very  considerably  enlarged. 


CONTENTS. 


PAOK 

Approximate  Quantities     . 

10 

Handy  Measures     . 

n 

Notes  on  Scullery  Work    . 

12 

Soups           .            .            .            .       " 

21 

rish             .... 

49 

Meat             .... 

72 

Game            .... 

,  134 

Vegetables,  Salads  and  Dressings 

138 

Hot  Puddings 

169 

Cold  Sweets 

202 

Ices              .... 

217 

Savouries     .... 

221 

Sauces,  Forcemeats  and  Batters 

237 

Baking         .... 

255 

Pastry          .... 

301 

Bottling,  Pickling  and  Preserving 

305 

Invalid  Cookery 

325 

Simple  Confectionery 

334 

Miscellaneous 

341 

Index           .... 

359 

Illustrations — 

Plate  1 — Diagrams  of  Animals 

72 

Plate  2 — Diagram  of  Ox 

88 

Plate  3 — Diagram  of  Cuts  of  Beef 

(1) 

112 

Plate  4— Diagram  o£  Cuts  of  Beef 

(2) 

120 

Glasgow  and  West  of  Scotland  College 
of  Domestic  Science  (incorporated), 

PARK  DRIVE,  GLASGOW,  C.3. 


PACKETS   OF 

HIGH-CLASS   AND    HOUSEHOLD    RECIPES. 

Nos.  1,2,  4,.  5,  6, 

PRICE    FOURPENCE   EACH. 

The  Packets  contain  a  large  variety  of  useful  Eecipes  for 
Entrees,  Savouries,  Breakfast  Dishes,  Soups,  Cold  Meat,  Cookery, 
Puddings  and  Sweets,  Sick-Room  Cookery,  Sauces,  &c. 

30  or  more  Recipes  in  each  Packet. 


THE  GLASGOW  COOKERY  BOOK. 

Price  S/-   nett. 

This  book  has  been  compiled  specially  for  the  use  of  Students 
in  Training  as  Teachers  of  Cookery  at  this  College. 

The  Eecipes  are  those  which  have  been  successfully  used 
for  many  years,  and  have  been  proved  -  therefore  to  be 
essentially  practical. 


PLAIN   COOKERY    RECIPES. 

Price  TWO  PENCE  each,  or  1/9  per  dozen;  Postage  extra. 

This  simple  Manual  is  primarily  intended  to  aid  the  teaching 
of  Cookery  in  Board  and  Elementary  Schools. 


APPROXIMATE  QUANTITIES. 


Food. 


Soup. 


Fish. 

Oysters, 
1  Lobster, 
1  Crab, 

Meat. 

Cutlets, 
Fillets, 
Croquettes, 
Patties, 
1  Sweetbread, 
1  Chicken, 
'  1  Turkey, 
1  Babbit, 
1  Hare, 
1  Ox  Tongue, 

Tart  or  Pudding. 

1     lb.     Fruit,     6     ozs.\ 
Flour   for   Pastry,   -/ 

Pie  or  Pudding. 

1  lb.  Meat,  8  ozs.  Flour  \ 
for  Pastry,       -        -J 

Suet  Pudding. 

i     lb.     Flour,     or     its\ 
equivalent,  -  i 

Cake  Mixture  Pudding. 


Number  op  Persons. 

i  pint  to  each  person  and  i  pint  over. 

When  a  number  of  Courses  are  to 
be  served  it  is  only  necessary  to 
allow  1  gill  of  Soup  to  eaqh 
person  and  2  to  3  gills  over. 

4  to  6  ozs.  to  each  person. 
4  to  6  to  each  person. 
3  to  4  persons. 

3  to  4  persons. 

4  to  6  ozs.  to  each  person. 
~  3  to  every  2  persons. 

3  to  every  2  persons. 
3  to  every  2  persons. 

3  to  every  2  persons. 
1  to  2  persons. 

4  to  6  persons. 
12  to  15  persons. 
6  to  7  persons. 

8  to  10  persons.  - 
8  to  10  persons. 

4  to  5  persons. 


4  to  5-  persons. 


5  to  6  persons. 


4    ozs.    Flour,    4    ozs.\ 
Bitter,   etc.,              -/ 

5  to  6  persons. 

Milk  Puddings. 

1  pint  milk. 
Souffles  —  as  given  in  \ 
Recipes,             -         -  / 
1  qrt.  Jelly  or  Cream, 

3  to  4  persons. 

4  to  5  persons. 

5  to  6  persons. 

Savouries  or  Hors 

d'Oeuvres. 

1  to  each  person. 

Scones. 

i  lb.  Flour, 

Will  make  8  good-sized  Scones 
(2  rounds  cut  in  four). 

Buns.     . 

4  lb.  Flour, 

Will  make  10  to  12  large  or  14  small. 

HANDY  MEASURES. 


1  small  teaeupful  Flour, 

about  i  lb 

1        „          „          Soft  Sugar, 

i  lb 

1        „          „          Baw  Sugar, 

- 

6  oz 

1        „          „          Sifted  Sugar, 

6  oz 

1        „          „          Grated  Cheese, 

- 

3  oz 

1        „          „          Breadcrumbs, 

2  oz 

1  rounded  table-spoonful  Flour, 

1  oz 

1  dessert-spoonful  Butter, 

1  oz 

i  teaspoonful   Ginger, 

i  oz 

Half  a  pint' Liquid  is  about  1  breakfast- 

cupful. 

N.B. — All  Measures  of  Liquid  used  in  the  Bedpes  are  the 
English  Imperial  Pint. 


12  EOUSEEOLD   COOKEMY. 


Notes  on  Scullery  Work. 

The  aim  to  keep  in  mind  is  to  clean  the  utensil  without 
injuring  the  material  of  which  it  is  made.  Orderliness  in 
washing-up  and  cleaning  is  quite  as  esseuitial  as  method 
in  cookins;. 

WASHING-UP. 

V 

-    -  Preparation. 

1.  Remove  all  scraps  of  food  from  dishes  and  plates. 

2.  Empty  contents  of  jugs,  cups,  and  basins. 

3.  Place  knives  and  forks  into  jug  with  hot  water  up  to 
bolster. 

4.  Arrange  all  in  order. 

5.  Pans  used  for  greasy  food,  fill  with  water  and  bring 
to  boiling  point. 

6.  Pans  used  for  starchy  food,  soak  in  cold  water. 

Washing-up. 

1.  Wash  in  very  hot  water,  with  a  little  soap,  using  a 
netted  dish-cloth. 

2.  "Wash  cleanest  first. 

3.  Allow  to  drain. 

4.  Dry  with  clean  dish  towel. 

Notes.— \.  Never  pour  water  over  dishes;  always  place 
dishes  in  the  water.  2.  If  many  dishes  are  being  washed, 
renew  the  water  frequently. 


HOUSEHOLD   COOKEBY.  13 

GLASS. 

1.  Wash  in  warm  water  and  little  soap,  using  brush,  if 
necessary. 

2.  Rinse  in  warm,  blue  water. 

3.  Drain. 

4.  Dry  and  polish. 

A  little  laundry  blue  in  the  water  helps  to  make  the 
glass  clear  and  sparkling. 

CHINA. 

Avoid  use  of  soda,  as  it  destroys  gilt  aad  colour. 

After  washing-up  wash  out  all  dish-cloths  and  drying 
towels  in  hot,  soapy  water,  rinse  in  boiling  water, 
and  hang  out  in  the  open  air,  if  possible,  to  dry.  The 
dish-cloths  must  be  boiled  every  day  after  the  principal 
washing-up. 

Scrub  all  bowls  (inside  and  outside),  rinse,  and  dry; 
scrub  the  surround,  and  clean  the  sink;  place  in  a  lump 
of  soda  oyer  the  drainer,  and  pour  boiling  water  down  the 
pipe  and  overflow  holes,  then  flush  with  hot  and  tlien 
cold  water. 

SCOURING   MIXTURES. 

Moist: — 1  lb.  soft  Soap,  1  lb.  Calais  Sand,  1  lb.  Whiting, 
1  quart  Water. 

Put  all  in  an  old  pan,  stir  well,  and  boil  for  one  hour. 

Store  in  jars. 

Dry: — i  lb.  Hudson's  Dry  Soap,  i  lb.  Silver  Sand, 
J  lb.  Whiting. 

Mix  together,  pass  through  a  wire  sieve,  store  in  a  tin. 

IRON   SAUCEPANS. 

1.  Scrape  out  all  contents. 

2.  Fill  with  water,  to  which  add  a  small  piece  of  soda, 
and  bring  to  boiling  point. 


14         ^  BOVSEEOLD   COOKEBT. 

3.  Clean  thoroughly,  scoTuing  with  pan  brush  and 
scouring  mixture,  both  inside  and  out. 

4.  Rinse  in  hot  water. 

5.  Dry  well  with  dish-eloth. 

6.  Stand  on  rack  upside  down,  to  dry. 

Note. — If  used  for  starchy  food,  soak  in  cold  water. 

FRYING   PANS,   ROASTING   AND   DRIPPING 

PANS. 

1.  Remove  as  much  grease  as  possible  by.means  of  paper, 
and  then  treat  as  iron  saucepans.  ^ 

Dutch  ovens  in  the  same  way,  but  polish  outside  with 
whiting. 

GRIDIRONS. 

1.  Remove  all  grease  by  rubbing  with  paper. 

2.  Wash  in  very  hot  water  and  soda. 

3.  Rinse  in  hot  water. 

4.-  Dry  with  dish-cloth  and  then  dry  on  rack. 

ENAMEL   PANS. 

1.  Scrape  out  all  contents. 

2.  Fill  with  water  and  boil. 

3.  Clean  thoroughly,  rubbing  with  coarse  salt  and  finely- 
powdered  egg-shell  or  fine  scouring  misiture.  Rinse  in  hot 
water™-   Dry  thoroughly. 

TINS. 

Saucepan  Lids. 

1.  Wash  in  hot  water  to  remove  any  food. 

2.  Scour  with  scouring  mixture,  inside  only. 

3.  Rinse  in  hot  water. 

4.  Dry  thoroughly. 

5.  Apply  a  little  dry  whiting  on  a  rubber  on  the  outside 
only,  and  polish. 


ROUSEHOLD    COOKEBY.  15 

Patty-tins,  Bread  and  Cake  Tins. 

1.  Wipe  inside  and  out  with  soft  paper  while  still  hot. 

2.  Wash  out  periodically  and  dry  very  thoroughly. 

Feuicy  Moulds,  Jelly  Moulds. 

Wash  well  and  dry,  polish  outside  only  with  dry  whiting, 
and  polish  well. 

ALUMINIUM. 

Wash  in  hot  water;  scour,  if  necessary;  rinse  in  hot 
water,  dry  well,  rub  up. 

Some  aluminium  pans  require  the  outside  only  cleaned 
with,  whiting.      Avoid  use  of  soda,  as  it  discolours. 

OMELET   PANS. 

These  should  be  very  occasionally  washed.  While  still 
warm  after  use,  rub  till  clean  with  soft  paper. 

The  outsides  must  be  kept  bright,  and  cleaned  according 
to  the  metal  of  which  they  are  made. 

TO  CLEAN  STEEL. 

1.  Remove  rust  by  rubbing  with  cloth  dipped  in  parafSn 
or  turpentine. 

2.  Rub  with  fine  ash,  moistened  with  water.  If  very 
dirty,  rub  with  bathbrick  and  paraffin,  using  scouring 
flannel  or  coarse  rubber. 

3.  Rub  off  with  coarse  duster. 

4.  Polish  with  soft  rubber  or  pad  of  velvet. 

STEEL   KNIVES   AND    FORKS. 

Steep  in  hot  water  up  to  the  bolster. 

Avoid  putting  the  knives  into  hot  water,  as  the  cement 
of  handle  would  be  softened.  Wash  the  knives,  holding 
one  at  a  time  in  the  hand.       Do  not  put  the  handles  in 


16  SOUSEBOLD    COOKESY. 

water.  Wipe  the  handles  and  wash  the  blades  with  the 
sharp  part  of  the  blade  away  from  the  cloth,  so  that 
neither  cloth  nor  fingers  are  cut.  Wash  the  prongs -of 
forks  well.  Dry  at  once.  Remove  any  stains  with  a 
piece  of  raw  potaito  peeling;  wipe  dry  before  polishing. 

To  Clean. — Rub  the^  blade  lightly,  backwards  and  for- 
wards, on  a  board  sprinkled  with  powdered  bathbrick. 
Use  a  cork  dipped  in  the  powder  for  back  of  blade  and 
for  the  forks;  and  for  cleaning  in  between  the  prongs  of 
forks,  use  a  wooden  skewer  in  an  old  glove  finger  dipged 
in  the  powder. 

Be  careful  to  remove  all,  powder  from  blade  and  fork, 
and  dust  the  handles  carefully. 

N£. — To  remove  the  smell  of  onions,  wash  in  cold  water 
first  or  plunge  into  the  earth. 

PLATED   SPOONS   AND   FORKS. 

1.  Apply  a  paste  of  whiting  and  water  with  a  few  drops 
methylated  spirits. 

2.  Apply  with  soft  rubber,  rubbing  between  thumb  and 
fingers. 

3.  Allow  to  dry. 

4.  Wash  in  hot,  soapy  wat^r. 

5.  Rinse  in  boiling  wateiv 

6.  Dry,  and  polish  with  leather  and  brush. 

TO   CLEAN   GALVANISED   ZINC. 

Pails,  Baths,  and  Sinks. 

1.  Wash. 

2.  Scour  well,  using  coarse  rubber,  with  powdered  bath- 
brick  and  paraffin,  or  fine  ash  and  paraffin. 

3.  Wash  in  hot  water  and  a  little  soda,  to  remove  greasy 
dirt,  using  a  scrubbing  brush,  if  necessary. 

4.  Dry  thoroughly. 

5.  Polish  with  dry  bathbrick  or  fine  emery  paper. 


B0U8EE0LD   COOKERY.  17 

Mincing  Machine. 

1.  Unscrew  the  machine. 

2.  Remove  any  food  left  on  choppers. 

3.  Wash  in  very  hot  water  and  soda. 

4.  Rinse  in  hot  water. 

5.  Wipe  as  dry  as  possible. 

6.  Leave  in  warm  place  till  perfectly  dry.  Screw  up 
all  parts. 

TO  CLEAN  BRASS,  COPPER,  ZINC,  PEWTER, 
STEEL,   AND   WHITE    METAL. 

Brass  Polish: — 2d.  tin  of  Globe  poUsh,  J  pint  Aaunoma, 
i  pint  Paraffin,  J  pint  Turpentine. 

Put  all  together  into  a  bottle,  cork  and  label.  Shake 
well;-  wUl  be  ready  for  use  in  three  days. 

If  necessary,  wash  in  hot  water  with  some  soft  soap, 
rinse  and  dry  well.  Apply  some  good  polishing  mixture 
on  a  piece  of  coarse  rubber.  Bub  thoroughly,  using  a 
,  wooden  skewer  covered  with  the  finger  of  an  old  chamois 
glove  for  comers  and  rims,  rub  off  the  metal  polish,  polish 
finally  with  soft  duster  or  selvyt. 

Lacquered  Brass. 

When  new,  all  that  is  necessary  is  a  thorough  polishing 
with  selvyt  or  wash  leather,  but  when  the  lacquer  is 
shabby  wash  in  hot  water,  using  a  soft  brush  and  soft 
soap,  rinse,  dry  and  polish  well  with  selvyt  and  brush. 

Benares  Ware  and  Enamelled  Brass. 

Wash  in  hot  water,  using  a  stiff  brush  dipped  in  soft 
soap  and  then  in  whiting,  rinse  in  hot  water  and  dry  at 
once,  polish  with  selvyt  and  brush. 

Never  use  any  brass  polish  for  this  carved  brass. 


18  HOUSEHOLD   COOKEBT. 

THE  CLEANING  OF  ANY  BRASS  OR 
COPPER  ARTICLE  USED  FOR  FOOD. 

Always  thoroughly  wash  with  boiling  water  after  using 
any  strong  cleaning  mixture  and  polish  up  well.  The 
tinned  lining  of  copper  pans  is  best  cleaned  by  rubbing 
with  a  scouring  mixture  and  then  washing  in  boiling  water. 
Copper  or  brass  kettles  must  be  cleaned  out  weekly  by 
pouring  boiling  water  over  a  tiny  piece  of  soda;  this 
removes  any  sediment  from  the  inside.  Rinse  and  dry 
thoroughly  inside. 

When  cleaning  brass  knobs,  knockers,  taps  and  handles, 
care  must  be  taken  .to  protect  the  surroundings  of  paper, 
paint  or  polish. 

A  hole  corresponding  to  the  size  and  shape  of  the  brass 
may  be  cut  out  of  a  piece  of  cardboard,  which  is  then  used 
to  cover  the  part  to  be  protected. 

All  small  nuts  and  screws  of  handles  of  detachable  parts 
must  be  carefully  watched,  as  they  are  easily  lost. 

WHITE   METAL,   BRITANNIA   METAL, 
AND   PEWTER. 

If  neglected,  rub  with  a  paste  made  of  powdered  rotten- 
stone  and  linseed  oU,  wash,  dry  and  polish  or  apply  paste 
of  whiting  and  water  if  used  for  food,  wash. 

TO   CLEAN   WOOD. 

Remove  any  food  by  scraping  with  back  of  knife; 
remove  any  vegetable  stains  by  washing  with  cold  water 
and  rubbing  with  coarse  salt  and  vegetable  acid  (as  vinegar 
or  lemon),  wash  ofE  with  cold  water  and  scrub.  Repeat  if 
necessary. 

To  remove  grease. — Spread  with  a  paste  of  Fuller's  earth 
or  whiting  mixed  with  warm  water,  and  leave  24  h6urs. 
Scrape  off  and  scrub  in  usual  way. 


HOUSEHOLD   COOKEBY.  19 

Wash  the  wood  with  flannel  cloth  and  warm  water, 
scrub  with  coarse  scrubbing  brush  and  a  very  little  soap 
or  scouring  mixture,  or  sand  or  bath  brick,  scrubbing  the 
way  of  the  grain  of  the  wood.  Wash  off  the  soap,  rinse 
very  thoroughly  with  warm  then  cold  water,  dry  with 
tightly-wrung  cloth  and  stand  in  open  air,  or  near  open 
window.  Avoid  too  much  soap,  soda,  or  hot  water,  as 
these  all  discolour  the  wood;  also  avoid  drying  by  great- 
heat,  which  warps  the  wood.  Rinse  the  scrubbing  brush 
out  under  the  hot  water  tap,  and  leave  hung  up  in 
airy  place. 

SIEVES. 

Wire. 

1.  Remove  any  food,  using  a  brush  or  skewer. 

2.  Rinse  thoroughly  under  cold  water  tap. 

3.  Wash  in  warm  soapy  water. 

4.  Scrub  the  wood. 

5.  Rinse  well  in  warm  then  in  cold  water. 

6.  Shake  as  dry  as  possible  and  dry  with  cloth. 

7.  Dry  in  current  of  air. 

Hair. 

1.  Remove  any  food,  using  a  spoon. 
Wash  as  wire  sieves.     Avoid  the  use  of  soda,  or  the  hair 
becomes  brittle. 

PASTRY   BRUSHES. 

1.  If  used  for  e^,  rinse  ofiE  with  cold  water. 

2.  If   greasy,    wash    in   warm    soapy   water   and   rinse 
thoroughly. 

3.  Scrub  handles,  unless  varnished. 

4.  Roll  handles  between  palms  of  hands  to  make  the 
bristles  stand  out  separately. 

5.  Dry  in  current  of  air. 


20  HOUSEHOLD   C00KEB7. 

FLANNEL   OR   FELT  JELLY   BAGS. 

1.  Remove  contents,  and  scrape  off  any  clinging  with  the 
aid  of  a  metal  spoon. 

2.  Wash  very  thoroughly  with  warm  water,  using 
no  soap. 

3.  Rinse  and  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible. 

4.  Dry  quickly. 

5.  Be  sure  that  the  bag  is  perfectly  dry  before  laying 
aside,  else  it  will  mildew. 

TAMMY   CLOTHS. 

1.  These  are  generally  greasy  after  use,  so  wash  them  in 
warm  water  to  which  a  little  soap  or  soda  has  been  added. 

2.  Rinse  very  thoroughly. 

3.  Wring  and  dry  out  of  doors  if  possible. 

FORCING   BAGS. 

1.  Scrape  off  with  a  spoon  any  contents  sticking. 

2.  Wash  thoroughly  in  hot  water  to  which  a  little  soda 
has  been  added.     ' 

3.  Rinse  well  and  wring. 

4.  Dry. 

Note. — Occasionally'  these  bags  should  be  boiled  in  soapy 
water  to  keep  them  a  good  colour.  If  the  bags  are  made 
of  macintosh,  be  careful  to  use  tepid  water  only,  or  the 
solution  fixing  the  join  wiE  melt. 

PUDDING   CLOTHS. 

1.  Scrape  off  any  mixture,  using  the  back  of  a  knife  or 
spoon. 

2.  Wash  in  hot  water  in  which  a  little  soda  is  dissolved. 

Boa. 

3.  Rinse  thoroughly  wring  and  dry. 

4.  If  possible,  bleach  frequently,  as  these  cloths  become 
very  much  stained. 


Household   Cookery. 


SOUPS. 

GENERAL    RULES    FOR   STOCK   MAKING. 

1.  If   no   stock   pot   use   a   strong   pan   -with    a    tight- 
fitting  lid. 

2.  Wash  and  scrape  bones. 

3.  Remove  fat,  wipe,  and  cut  meat  in  small  pieces. 

4.  Put  in  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt  (1  dessertspoonful 
to  one  gallon). 

5.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling  point. 

6.  Boil  bonestock  9  hours. 

7.  Simmer  meatstock  5  hours. 

8.  Add  vegetables  cut  in  large  pieces  li  hours  before 
straining. 

9.  Strain. 

10.1  Removie  fat  before  using. 

N.B. — Meat  amd  bones  may  be  used  again  with  fresh 
vegetajbles. 

GENERAL   RULES    FOR   SOUP    MAKING. 

1.  Use  strong  pan  with  tight-fitting  lid. 

2.  Expose  as  much .  surface  of  meat  and  bones  to  water 

3.  Cook  with  seasoning. 

•  4.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling  point. 


22  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS. 

5.  Cook  slowly. 

6.  Serve  very  hot  and  free  from  guease. 

N.B. — Toasted  or  fried  bread  (croutons)  is  served  with 
all  vegetable  purees  or  meat  soups  which  have  no  other 
garnish. 

BONE   STOCK. 

Use  raw  or  cooked  bones.  If  raw,  wash  well.  Put 
on  in  a  pan,  cover  well  with  water,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
bring  to  bodling  point,  simmer  steadily  for  9  hours.  If 
liked  the  stock  may  be  flavoured  or  browned.  To  each 
quart  of  stock  add  1  fried  onion;  i  carrot,  J  tiimip, 
1  sprig  of  parsley,  1  sprig  of  thyme.  Add  these  about 
li  hours  before  straining.  Simmer  until  nicely  flavoured. 
For  lightly-coloured  stock  do  not  fry  onion.  Strain 
end  use. 

N.B. — Second  or  even  third  stock  may  be  made  by 
reboiling  the  bones  with  more  water;  these  should  not  be 
thrown  out  until  perfectly  dry  and  perforated;  fresh 
vegetables  must  be  used  if  it  is  desired  flavoured. 


FISH   STOCK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Fi£h  TrimmingB  or  a  Cod's  2  qts.  cold  Water. 

Head.  6  Peppercorns. 

1  Onion.  Salt. 

1  stick  Celery.  1  slice  Bread. 

Thoroughly  cleanse  the  trimmings.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  with  water  and  salt.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling 
point,  add  celery,  onion  and  peppercorns.  Simmer  for 
one  hour;  strain. 

This  stock  can  be  used  for  fish  soups  or  sauces. 


BOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS.  23 

PLAIN    FISH   SOUP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  quart  of  Fish  Stock.  1   table-spoonful   of  chopped 

1   oz.   Margaiine.  Parsley. 

2i  ozs.  Flour.  Pepper. 

}  pint  Milk.  Salt,  if  necessary. 

Melt  the  margarine,  add  the  flour,  cook  well  for  a  few 
miuTites,  add  stock  gradually  and  seasoning,  stir  till  boiling ; 
boil  well,  add  milk  and  any  pieces  of  fish  from  the  ood'a 
hiead,  pour  into  the  heated  tureen  in  which  the  parsley 
has  been  put. 

AVERAGE  PROPORTIONS  FOR 
VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 

1.  Fresh  Watery  Vegetables. — e.g.,  Vegetable 
Marrow. 

2  lbs.  vegetables. 
One  quart  liquid. 
Two  table-spoonfuls  farinaceous  substance. 

2.  Dried  Vegetables.— e.p.,  Peas,  Beans,  Lentils. 

4  to  6  ozs.  vegetables. 
1  quant  liquid. 

3.  Fresh  Starchy'  Vegetables. — e.g.,  Potatoes. 

1  lb.  vegetables. 

1  quart  liquid. 

1  table-spoonful  farinaceous  substance,  e.g.,  tapioca. 

N.B.—Fiom  above  proportions  any  kind  of  soup  may  be 
made,  vegetables  being  prepared  according  to  their  kind. 

Soups  from  Watery  Vegetables. — e.g., 
Vegetable  Marrow,  Cabbage,  Sprouts,  Onion,  Tomato. 
Flavourings  suitable — Onion,  peppercorns,   sugar,  ham 
rind,  etc. 


24  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS. 

•      VEGETABLE   MARROW   SOUP. 

•      INGEEDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Vegetable  Marrow  Some  toasted  Biead. 

(after  preparing).  2  pints  Water. 

1  large  Onion.  i  pint  Milk. 

2  ozB.  Butter  or  Dripping.  2  table-spoonfuls  Flour. 
1  teaspoonful  "Sugar.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Prepare  the  marroW;^  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Slice 
the  onion  finely.  ^Melt  the  butter  or  dripping,  add 
marrow  and  onion,  and  cook  very  gently  for  about  20 
minutes;  add  the  sugar  and  seasoning  and  water, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  and  simmer  until  all  is 
tender.  Blend  flour  and  milk.  Add  soup  to  it,  return 
to  the  pan,  bring  to  boiling  point,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Cook  three  minutes  and  the  soup  is  ready.  ' 

■v- 

N.B. — This,  soup  is  much  improved  by  sieving,  in  which 
case  the  thickening  is  added  afterwards. 

Less  Watery  Vegetables. 

Carrot,  Beetroot,  Turnip,  Celery,  &c. 
Same  flavourings  as  above,  with  exception  of  sugar. 

N.B. — Sajfie  proportions  are  used,  with  exception  of 
thickening  material,  of  which  only  one  table-spoonful  to 
one  quart  is  required. 


CARROT   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Carrots.  2  pints  Stock. 

Little  Ham..  Sprig  Parsley. 

Small  Onion.  J  pint  Milk, 

i  oz.  Margarine.  1  oz.  Flour. 


Grate  "the  carrots,  diop  the  iiam  and  onion,  place  in 
pan  with  margarine.  Cook  gently  20  minutes,  add 
stock,  seasoning  and  parsley.       Simmer  gently  one  hour, 


HOUSEBOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS.  25 

TMeken  by  blending  flour  and  milk,  add  some  soup  to 
this,  return  to  pan.  Stir  till  boiling,  boil  for  few 
ininutes;  serve. 

Dried  Vegetables. 

Lentils,  Peas,  Beans. 
Flavourings  suitable — Onion,  bacon  rind,  fresh  vegetables, 
salt,   pepper,  sprig  thyme  and  parsley,  mint  and   sugar 
for  peas. 

LENTIL   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  to  6  ozs.  Red  Lentils.  1  oz.  Dripping. 

1  quart  Water.  2  large  Fota4;oeg. 

Piece  Turnip.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Piece  Carrot.  A  Ham  Bone. 
1  Onion. 

Wash  the  lentils  and  "drain,  place  in  pan  with  the 
melted  dripping  and  add  the  fresh  vegetables  cut  in 
dice.  Cook  gently  with  lid  on  20  minutes,  add  water, 
ham  bone,  bring  to  boiling  point,  simmer  gently,  stir- 
ring frequently,  season  immediately  lentils  are  tender. 
Continue  cooking  in  all  2  to  3  hours  ;    serve. 

Starchy  Vegetables. 

Potatoes,  Artichoke  (Jerusalem). 
Flavourings  suitable — Onion,  salt,  pepper,  tind  leeks. 

POTATO    SOUP. 

INGBEDIBNTS. 

5  or  6  large  Potatoes.  2  pints  Water  or  Stock. 

1  large  Onion.  1  table-spoonful  Tapioca. 

1  or  1  Leeks.  i  pint  Milk. 

1  oz.  Dripping.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Melt  the  dripping  in  a  pan.  Prepare  the  onion  and 
le6ks  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  sweat  in  fat,  being  care- 
ful not  to  discolour;  now  add  the  thinly-sliced  potatoes 


26  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOUPS. 

and  the  stock  and  seasoning.  Simmer  gently  for  two  hours. 
Wash  tapioca,  mix  with  little  water,  add  to  the  soup 
and  boil  till  clear.  Break  down  any  large  pieces  of 
potato  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Just  before  serving  add 
milk.  Serve  in  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  send  to  table 
very  hot. 

N.B. — The  above   may  be   termed   Milk    Soup   if   less 
water  and  more  milk  be  used. 


UNCLASSIFIED  or  NONDESCRIPT  SOUPS. 

WHITE   VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Vegetables — Potatoes,  1  table-apoonful  fine  Sago. 

Onions,  Carrot,  Turnip.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  oz.  Dripping  or  Margarine.  3  pints  Water. 

1  table-apoonful  chopped  i  pint  Milk. 

Parsley. 

Prepare  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  and  potatoes,  and  cut 
them  into  very  fine  dice.  Melt  dripping.  Place  in 
vegetables  and  sweat  for  about  20  minutes.  Then  add 
water  and  seasoning  and-  bring  to  boiling  point.  Simmer 
until  the  vegetables  are  tender,  2  hours.  Then  wash  sago, 
inix  with  little  water,  -add  and  simmer  until  the  sago  is 
clear  and  transparent  (about  20  minutes).  Add  milk, 
reheat.  Place  the  parsley  which  has  been  chopped  in 
tureen  and  add  soup. 

N^. — ^A  nicer  soup  is  obtained  by  sieving  the  soup  before 
adding  the  sago. 


BROWN   VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

Made  as  above,  with  exception  that  vegetables  are  fried 
till  light  brown,  and  milk  may  be  omitted;  thickening 
may  be  flour  or  sago. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS.  27 

MEAT   SOUPS. 
Average  Proportions  for  Meat  Soups. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Meat  (including  Bone),      li  ozs.  Farinaceous  (if  Soup 
1  quart  Liquid.  is  thickened). 

BROWN   SOUP. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Shin  of  Beef.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  small  Carrot.  Sweet  Herbs. 

1  Onion.  1  qu^rt  cold  Water. 

A  small  piece  of  Turnip.  IJ   ozs.   thickening   material. 

1  oz.  Dripping. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces;  peel  and  slice  the 
onion ;  wash  and  scrape  the  carrot,  peel  the  turnip,  and  cut 
both  into  long  strips.  Heat  the  dripping  in  the  pot;  when 
quite  hot,  brown  onion  in  it;  make  it  a  deep  brown;  then 
pour  off  dripping,  add  meat  cut  up,  water  and  seasoning; 
bring  to  boiling  point,  add  vegetables  and  herbs  tied  in 
muslin;  simmer  for  two  hours,  skim  well.  Remove  herbs 
and  thicken;  serve. 

MOCK   KIDNEY   SOUP. 

I  INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Liver.  i  Turnip.       , 

2  pints  Bone  Stock  or  Water.     Parsley. 

1  table-spoonful  Dripping.        Flour    in    proportion    of    J 

Seasoning.  table-spoonful  to  each  pint 

1  Onion  of  Soup. 

i  Carrot.  • 

Wash  and  cut  up  the  liver  in  small  pieces,  and  fry  a 
good  rich  brown  colour  in  dripping.  Cut  the  onion  in 
rings  and  fry  also;  add  stock  and  bring  to  boiling 
point;  add  vegetables  and  seasoning  to  the  soup;  bring 
to  boiling  point,  and  simmer  one  hour;  remove 
vegetables,  thicken  soup,  or  the  liver  and  vegetables  may 
be  passed  through  a  sieve  and  no  thickening  added. 


28  HOUSEHOLD  CQOKEST  — SOUPS. 

MELT   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Sheep  or  1  Oi  Melt.  1  Carrot. 

1  quart  Stock  or  Water.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  Onion.  li  taWe-spoonfula  Sago. 

2  Caoves. 

Wash  the  melt,  cut  into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  pan  with 
the  water  and  salt.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling  point,  remove 
scum.  Add  vegetables;  simmer  about  two  hours.  Strain; 
return  to  pan.  Wash  sago,  mix  with  tittle  water,  add, 
boil  till  clear;  season  again,  if  necessary,  and  serve. 

PLUCK   SOUP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  Sheep's  Pluck  (lay  aside        3  ozs.  Eice. 
liver  for  frying).  Salt  and  Pepper. 

2  ^quarts  Water.  2  table-spoonfula  chopped 

3  Onions.  Parsley. 

Wash  the  pluck  well,  soak  in  salted  water  for  one 
hour.  Remove  and  wash  thoroughly,  place  in  pan  with 
the  water  and  seasoning;  bring  to  boiling  point,  add 
onion  cut  up  finely,  cook  well  li  hours.  Wash  the  rice, 
add,  boil  30  minutes  longer.  Remove  pluck,  cut  lights 
and  heart  into  dice,  serve  in  the  soup.  Chop  parsley 
finely.  Place  in  heated  soup  tureem,  pour  boiling  soup 
over,  and  'serve. 

GIBLET   SOUP. 

*  INGREDIENTS. 

3  isets  Giblets,  either  duck  Little  Carrot  and  Turnip. 

or  chicken  (1  lb.).  Bunch  Herbs. 

1  quart  Water  or  Stock.  1  table-spoonful  chopped 
1  Onion.  Parsley, 

li  ozs.  Eice.  ,  1  stick  Celery. 

Bacon  Eind.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Wash  giblets  well,  and  cut  in  pieces,  place  in  pan  with 
water  and  salt.      Bring  to  boiling  point,  skim  well,  add^ 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS.  29 

vegetables  cut  in  dice  and  herbs.  Simmer  steadily  for 
three  hours,  add  washed  rice,  simmer  half -hour  longer; 
add  a  little  heated  milk,  if  liked.  Place  chopped  parsley 
in  tureen  and  pour  hot  soup  on. 

N.B. — Instead  of  using  rice  and.  diced  vegetable,  this 
soup  might  be  simmered  and  strained,  and  thickened  with 
flour  in  same  proportion. 


BROTHS. 

Scotch  Broth,  Hotch  Poteh,  Sheep's  Head  Broth. 

Proportions — 1   lb.   meat,   1    quart   water,   any   seasonable 
vegetables,  1  oz.  farinaceous  food  stuff. 

SCOTCH    BROTH. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Neck  or  Shoulder  of         J  small  Cabbage. 
Mutton  or  1  lb.  Nineholes       1  table-spoonful  chopped 
of  Beef.  Parsley. 

2  to  3  ozs.  Pearl  Barley.  1  Onion,  Leek,  Peas. 
A  small  Carrot.                            Salt  and  Pepper. 

A  small  Turnip.  2  quarts  cold  Water. 

Scald  the  barley  and  put  it  on  with  cold  water, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  and  simmer  for  one  hour.  Pre- 
pare the  vegetables,  cutting  carrot,  turnip  and  onion 
into  dice,  and  shredding  the  cabbage  finely  ;  after  the 
broth  has  cooked  one  hour,  add  the  vegetables  and  seas- 
oning, and  cook  steadily  for  two  hours  longer.  Place 
chopped  parsley  in  the  tureen,  pour  on  the  broth  (after 
skimming  any  superfluous  fat  from  the  broth).  If  serv- 
ing the  meat  put-  it  into  boiling  broth  14  hours  before 
serving  or- according  to  weight. 

N.B, — Rice  may  be  substituted  for  barley,  and  season- 
able vegetables,  e.g.,  green  peas,  beans,  cauliflower,  etc., 
may  be  added. 


30'  SOUSEEOLD  COOKESY  —  SOUPS. 

HOTCH   POTCH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  lbs.  Neck  of  Lamb.  1   table-spoonful  chopped 

3  quarts  Water.  Parsley. 

4  Carrots  (new)r  i  small  Cabbage. 
4  Turnips  (new).  1  small  Lettuce. 

1  pint  Peas  (shelled).  12  Spring  Onions. 

i  pint  broad  Beans  (shelled       1  small  Cauliflower. 

and  skinned).  Salt  and  Pepper. 

2  teaspoonfi^s  Sugar. 

Prepare  the  vegetables,  cutting  the  turnips  and  half 
the  carrots  into  dice;  cut  up  the  cabbage,  lettuce,  and 
onion  finely,  break  up  the  cauliflower.  Put  the  water 
on  to  boil;  when  boiling,  add  the  cut-up  carrot,  turnip, 
cabbage,  lettuce,  onion,  cauliflower,  beans,  and  half  the 
peas  and  a  little  salt.  Boil  these  for  2J  hours,  then  add 
the  meat  cut  into  chops,  and  the  remaiuder  of  the  peas 
and  seasoning  and  sugar,  and  the  rest  of  the  carrot,  grated ; 
simmer  IJ  hours  longer.  Add  one  table-spoonfuL  chopped 
parsley.  Serve  all  together  in  a  hot  tureen.  Any 
vegetables  in  season  may  be  added.  The  v^etables 
should  be  as  fresh  as  possible,  and  not  too  old. 


SHEEP'S  HEAD  BROTH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Sheep's  Head  and  Trotters.  2  Leeks. 

2  small  Carrots.  1  Onion. 

-1  Turnip.  Parsley. 

1  smaU  Cabbage  or  i  Salt  and  Pepper. 

large  one.  A  good  teacupful  Barley 
4  quarts  Water.  (i  lb.). 

Get  a  singed  head  and  trotters,  and  get  the  former 
cut  open  by  the  butcher.  Take  out  the  brains  and  rub 
the  head  and  feet  well  with  them,  and  allow  to  lie  all 
night.  Wash  the  head  with  warm  water,  put  in  a  pan 
and  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  draw 
aside  from  the  fire  and 'allow  to  soak  for  1  hour,  then 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOUPS.  31 

scrape  it  well.  Wash  and  thoroughly  clean  the  ^ntside 
and  inside  of  the  head,  split  the  trotters  between  the 
toes  and  remove  the  inside  part  and  again  put  in  cold 
water  (4  quarts)  with  the  barley,  which  has  been  well 
washed  and  scalded.  Bring  slowly  to  the  boil  and  cook 
IJ  hours.  Now  add  the  cabbage,  1  carrot,  turnip,  onion, 
and  2  leeks  and  seasoning,  all  prepared  in  usual  way  and 
cut  up  finely;  again  boil  for  two  hours.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  finely-chopped  parsley.  The  second  carrot 
should  be  grated  and  added  to  the  broth  one  hour 
before  serving. 

For  serving  the  head : — Remove  the  flesh  from  the 
bones  and  place  it  neatly  on  a  dish.  Skin  the  tongnie 
and  split  it  in  two;  place  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 
Pour  parsley  sauce  over. 

NONDESCRIPT   MEAT   SOUPS. 

Proportions — IJ  ozs.  farinaceous — e.g.,  riee,  macaroni,  ver- 
micelli; 1  quart  stock,  white  or  brown. 

Flavourings — Onion,  leek,  chopped  parsley.  * 


RICE   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  Stock.  1  table-spoonful  chopped 
IJ  ozs.  Eice.  Parsley. 

1  Onion.  Seasoning. 
1  Leek. 

Wash  the  rioe,  bring  stock  to  boiling  point,  sprinkle 
in  the  rice,  add  the  onion  and  leek  chopped  finely  and 
seasoning,  and  simmer  one  hour.  A  little  heated 
milk  may  be  added  at  end  if  liked.  Place  parsley  in 
tureen  and  pour  soup  over. 

N.B. — Macaroni  and  Vermicelli  Soup  may  be  made 
simUarily  (break  up  macaroni  first). 


32  SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS. 

WHITE   STOCK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Knuckle  of  Veal  or  1  or  2  Onions. 

Chicken  Bones.  4  inches  Lemon  Bind. 

i  lb.  Eaw  Ham.  20  Peppercorns. 

5  or  6  pints  Water.  Bouquet  of  Herbs. 

A  little  Salt.  J*Blade  Mace. 
i  Turnip. 

Wipe  and  cut  the  imeat  up  finely  and  allow  to  stand 
in  -water  mth  some  salt;  wash  the  bones  and  soak 
separately  to  remove  blood,  then  -add  them,  bring  to 
boiling  point,  and  simmer  2  hours.  Then  add  the 
-vegetables  and  herbs,  and  simmer  3  hours  longer.  Strain 
through  a  hair  sieve. 

SECOND   STOCK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Bones  or  Meat  from  first  1  sprig  Parsley. 

Stock,  r  quart  Water  to  i  Turnip. 

each  lb.  1  sprig  Thyme. 

J  Carrot.  1  Onion. 

Place  the  bones  and"  meat  in  water ;  boU  gently  3  hours ; 
add  vegetables;  boil  2  hours  longer.      Strain  and  use. 

PLAIN   BROWN   STOCK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

_  2d.  Eaw  Bones  or  Bones  2  stalks  Celery, 

from  a  Eoast.  Small  Carrot. 

2  lbs.  Shin  Beef.  2  medium-sized  Onions. 

5  piats  cold  Water.  1  oz.  Dripping. 
J  Turnip. 

Take  all  the  fat  from  the  meat,  and  cut  meat  into- 
small  pieces  and  soak  in  measured  water.  Make  drip- 
ping very  hot.  Brown  the  onions.-  Place  meat  and 
bones  in  water,  bring  slowly  to  under  boiling  point, 
simmer  3  hours.  Add  vegetables  and  simmer  2  hours 
longer— strain.  Remove  fat  when  cold.  Meat  and  bones 
can  be  used  for  second  stock. 


EOUSEBOLD  COOKEB¥  —  SOUPS.  33 

CLEAR   STOCK. 

INGREDIENTS.  , 

4   lbs.   Hough   or   Shin   of  8  stalks  Celery. 

Beef ,  or  2  lbs.  Hough  and  Bunch  Sweet  Herbs. 

2   lbs.   Nuekle   of   Veal.  J  teaspoouful  Black  Pepper- 
Small  piece  Turnip.  eoras. 

1  medium-sized  Carrot.  1  dozen  Cloves. 

'    2  Onioas   (fried).    '  1  good  teaspoonful  Salt. 

1  Leek.  5  pints  cold  Water. 

Take  the  meat  off  the  bones,  remove  the  fat,  and  cut 
the  lean  meat  and  skin  into  small  pieces.  Break  the 
bones  as  much  as  possible,  putting  aside  all  the  marrow 
and  fat.  Put  the  bones,  meat,  and  skin  into  a  clean  pan 
along  with  water  and  salt,  and  soak  for  some  time. 
Bring  to  boiling  point  very  slowly.  Allow  the  stock  to 
dimmer  very  slowly  for  4  hours,  then  add  herbs,  the 
vegetables  (previously  prepared),  and  allow  the  stock  to 
simmer  very  gently  for  at  least  2  hours  longer  (that  is. 
6  hours  altogether).  Strain  through  a  table  napkin  or 
soup  cloth  and  set  aside. 

Next  day,  when  the  stock  is  quite  cold,  the  fat  must 
-be  carefully  removed  from  the  top,  and  stock  wiped  over 
with  a  cloth  dipped  in  hot  water,  so  as  to  thoroughly 
free  it  from  fat.  If  the  stock  has  been  simmered  very 
gently,  and  allowed  plenty  of  time,  it  should  be  quite  clear 
for  ordinary  use  as  brown  soup. 

If  the  soup  should  not  be  clear  enough  it  can  be 
clarified  in  the  following  manner : — 

CLEAR   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  quart  Stock  (all  fat  A    little    Vegetable    (carrot, 

removed).  onion,     bay     leaf,     sprig 

i  lb.  Lean  Beef.  parsley). 

A  little  cold  Water.  Peppercorns. 

Whites  and  Shells  of  2  Eggs. 

Pass  the  beef  through  mincing  machine,  or  scrape  or  cut 
up  finely,  and  soak  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  for 


34  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOUPS. 

1  hour.  Then  place  all  ingredients,  whites  unbeaten, 
shells  crushed  up,  in  pan,  and  whisk  till  nearly  boiling. 
Remove  whisk,  and  allow  to  boil  undisturbed  for  five 
minutes.  Simmer  15  to  30  minutes,  then  remove  from 
heat.  Allow  to  settle  for  5  minutes,  then  decant  clear 
liquid  only  through  clean  soup  cloth.  Pour  sherry 
through  with  soup,  if  such  be  used.  (Seasoning  should 
be  added  before  clearing.)      Eeheat  and  serve. 


CONSOMME   JULIENNE. 

Clear  soup  garnished  with  cooked  shredded  carrot  and 
turnip. 

CONSOMME   COLBERT. 

Clear  soup  with  a  garnish  of  poached  eggs,  done  in 
thickly-buttered  darioles,  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley 
and  ham. 

CONSOMME   ROYAL. 

Clear  soup  with  the  following  garnish : — 

INGREDIiaJTS. 

1  whole  Egg  and  1  Yolk.  Seasoning. 

2  teaspoonfuls  Cream. 

Beat  the  egg  lightly,  add  cream  and  seasoning.  Strain 
half  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  dariole.  Colour 
the  rest  pink  and  strain  into  another  daxiole.  Place 
a  folded  paper  in  pan  and  half  fill  with  cold  wiater.- 
Place  in  custards  and  steam  slowly  till  firm.  Turn  out, 
wash  in  hot  water,  and  leave  in  cold  water.  When 
cold,  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Rinse  again  in  hot  water 
and  add  to  the  soup. 


JiuuisEjaOLij  uOuJLh'jiY  —  SOUFS.  35 

FISH   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Haddock  or  1  lb.  Fish.  J  pint  Milk. 

Some  Fish  Trimmings.  2, table-spoonfuls  Flour. 

2  Onions.  1  slice  crumb  of  Bread. 
Small  piece  Carrot.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Small  piece  Celery.  Squeeze  of  Lemon  Juice. 

1  table-spoonful  chopped 
Parsley. 

Wash  the  haddock  and  trimmings  well,  skin  the  fish 
and  take  off  the  flesh  and  put  aside.  Put  all  the  trimmings 
and  bones  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water  to  cover  and 
a  little  salt.  Add  the  vegetables  washed  and  cut  up 
(except  the  parsley),  add  bread.  Simmer  1  hour,  strain. 
Put  the  flour  into  a  basin,  allowing  1  oz.  to  each  pint 
of  soup,  and  mix  smoothly  with  a  little  cold  milk;  add 
to  the  soup;  boil  a  few  minutes.  Add  fish  cut  up  in 
neat  pi«ces,  simmer  5  minutes,  then  add  milk  heated. 
Add  parsley,  season  and  serve. 


BISQUE   OF   LOBSTER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Lobster  (IJ  lbs.).  2  table-spoonfuls  Spawn. 

1  quart  Fish  Stock.      -  i  pint  Milk  and  Cream. 

1  table-spoonful  Arrowroot.      Lemon  Juice. 

Remove  the  flesh  from  the  lobster.  Cut  into  nice- 
sized  dice  and  place  these  aside.  Place  washed  claws 
and  shells  with  the  stock  and  seasoning,  simmer  20 
minutes.  Add  ragged  pieces  and  soft  inside  part, 
simmer  15  minutes,  then  strain.  Thicken  with  arrowroot. 
Add  lobster  spawn,  which  has  been  rubbed  through  a 
hair  sieve.  Bring  to  boiling  point.  ~  Heat  the  milk 
and  cream.  Strain  hot  soup  over.  Add  a  squeeze 
lemon  juice. 


36  SOUSEMOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOUPS. 

WHITE   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  White  Stock.  Cornflour,  1}  table-spoonfuls, 
i  pint  Milk  and  Cream 

(mixed). 

To  every  quart  of  stock  take  14  small  table-spoonfuls 
of  cornflour.  Eemove  fat  from  stock.  Bring  to  boiling 
point.  Blend  cornflour  smoothly.  Pour  hot  stock  over 
this.  Return  to  pan  and  boil  thoroughly,  add  milk  and 
cream,  which  should  be  heated  first,  and  seasoning  if 
necessary.      Serve  with  croutons. 

N.B. — This  soup  is  suitable  for  invalids. 
CELERY   SOUP. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

2  heads  Celery.  1  gill  Cream. 

1  oz.  Butter.  4  ozs.  Flour. 

2  quarts  Boiling  Stock.  Salt  and  Pepper. 
i  pint  Milk. 

Wash  and  cut  up  the  celery,  and  saute  with  the 
seasoning  in  butter  about  20  minutes.  Add  stock,  aiid 
simmer  gently  tUl  celery  is  tender.  Rub  through  a  hair 
sieve  and  return  to  the  pan.  Add  blended  flour  and 
more  seasoning,  if  necessary,  and  boil  well.  Then  add 
the  milk  and  cream,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

PALESTINE  OR  ARTICHOKE  SOUP. 

INGKEDIENTS. 

IJ  pints  White  Stock.  IJ  lbs.  Artichokes  (after 

1  Onion.  peeling). 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  gill  Milk  or  Cream. 

2  pieces  Celery.  1  table-spoonful  Eice-flonr. 

Peel,  slice,  artichokes  and  onion.  Cut  up  celery,  and 
saute  along  with  onion  in  butter.  Add  artichokes  and 
etock.  Simmer  gently  1  hour,  sieve  the  soup,  thicken 
and  add  cream.      Reheat,  and  serve  with  fried  croutons. 


UQUSEROLD  COOh-EJiY  —  SOVPS.  37 

POTATO   PUREE, 

INGREDIENTS. 

IJ  lbs.  Potatoes.  Stalk  Celery. 

Small  Onion.  Seasoning    (white). 

1  oz.  Butter.  1|  pints  Stock. 

12  White  Peppercorns.  4  pint  Milk  and  Cream. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  and  cut  in  slices,  also  the  onion. 
Saute  them  in  butter  (do  not  brown),  add  the  stock, 
peppercorns,  celery,  and  seasoning.  Simmer  till  the 
vegetables  are  tender,  pass  through  a  hair  sieve,  return 
to  the  pan,  add  mUk  and  cream,  and  serve  with  croutons 
of  fried  bread. 

CHESTNUT   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  White  Stock.  34  lbs.  Chestnuts. 

i  pint  Milk  or  Cream.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Blanch  and  skin  the  chestnuts.  Place  in  a  pan  with 
the  stock.  Sinuner  till  tender.  Strain.  Pound  the 
chestnuts  slightly.  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve.  Add  to 
the  soup.  Reheat.  Add  cream.  Season  and  serve 
with  croutons.  Add  a  little  carmine  to  improve  the 
colour. 

ALMOND    SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  ozs.  Sweet  Almonds.  11   ozs.  Butter. 

6  Bitter  Almonds.  1^  pints  White  Stock. 

Small  head  Celery.  1  gill  Cream. 

Small  Onion.  Salt. 

1  pint  Milk.  White  Pepper. 

li  ozs.  Flour.  2  drops  Almond  Essence. 

Blanch  and  chop  the  almonds  very  finely,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt  to  them.  Put  the  almonds,  milk,  celery,  and 
onion  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  gently  for  1  hour.  Then 
strain  through  a  hair  sieve  (pressing  the  almonds  well  to 
extract  the  flavour).       Mix  the  flour  and  butter  in  the 


38  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOUPS. 

saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  the  white  stock,  stir  smoothly 
and  allow  it  to  boil  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  strained 
milk.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  allow  the 
soup  to  come  to  boiling  point,  again.  Just  before  serving 
add  the  cream.  Serve  with  sippets  o£  fried  bread. 
This  soup  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  good  cream. 

CAULIFLOWER   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Cauliflower.  2  small  Onions. 

1  oz.  Ham.  Blade  of  Mace. 

IJ  pints  Water.  2  ozs.  Butter. 

i  pint  Milk.  2  ozs.  Flour. 

Cook  together  in  a  lined  pan  the  following  ingredients : 
— cauliflower,  onions,  seasoning,  chopped  ham  and  water. 
When  cauliflower  is  cooked,  remove  some  nice  sprigs  for 
serving  in  the  soup;  and  continue  boiling  until  all  -is 
tender.  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve.  'Melt  butter,  add 
flour,  then  the  milk  gradually;  add  sie\^ed  soup  and  boil 
up  stirring  all  the  time.  Behieet  cauliflower  sprigs  in 
the  soup  for  a  minute  »r  so,  then  serve  at  once. 

N.B. — For  vegetarian  soup  substitute  2  stalks  celery 
for  ham. 

GREEN   PEA   PUREE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  WHte  Stock.  i  pint  Cream. 

1  lb.  Green  Peas  or  J  lb.  i  blanched  Onion. 

Marrow  Fats.  li  ozs.  Rice  Flour. 

1  Lettuce.  Croutons. 

Wash  pods.       Boil  peas,— half  the  pods,  lettuce,  onion 

and  stock  in  the  pan  until  tender.      Remove  lettuce,  then 

pass  peas  through  fine  hair  sieve,  add  blended  rice  flour, 

seasoning    and    bring    to    boiling   point.        Cook    a    few 

minutes.      Place  cream  in  heated  soup  tureen,  pour  over 

hot  soup  and  serve  with  croutons. 


SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS.  39 

BRUSSELS    SPROUTS    PUREE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Sprouts.  1   oz.  Butter. 

1  oz.  Eaw  Ham.  1  gill  Milk. 

1  Onion.  Seasoning. 

2  ozs.  Flour.  Croutons. 
1  quart  Stock. 

Chop  ham,  onion,  and  sprouts  and  sweat  gently  10-15 
minutes.  Add  seasoning  and  the  stock,  simmer  till  all 
is  tender  (about  1  hour).  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve, 
thicken  with  flour,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  milk. 
Serve  with  croutons. 


HOLLANDAISE    SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  Veal  or  Chicken  1  gill  Peas. 

Stock.  1  gill  Carrot  (pea  shapes). 

2  ozs.  Butter.  1  gill  Cucumber  (pea  shapes), 
li  ozs.  Flour.                                 Chopped  Parsley. 

4  Yolks.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  gill  Cream. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  cook.  Add  stock,  boil  up. 
pook  for  a  short  time.  Mix  yolks  and  cream  in  a  heated 
tureen,  then  add  the  seasoned  soup  just  under  boiling 
point  and  the  cooked  vegetables.      Sprinkle  parsley  on  top. 


TOMATO   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.   Tomatoes   (fresh)  or  1  gill  Milk  or  J  gill  Cream. 

1  pint  Tinned  Tomatoes.  Seasoning. 

IJ  pints  well  flavoured  Cochineal  (if  necessary). 

Stock.  1  oz.  Butter.    ^ 

li  ozs.  Flour  or  1  oz.  Corn-  2  ozs.  Lean  Ham. 

flour.  1  teaspoonful  Sugar. 
1  Onion. 

Slice   the  tomatoes   and    put   in   pan   with  the  onion, 
ham,  seasoning,   and  butter,   and  saute  20  minutes;  add 


40  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOUPS. 

stock,  and  simmer  till  tender.  Sieve  thrOEigh  a  hair 
sieve.  Blend  the  flour  or  cornflour,  add  to  the  soup, 
boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  colouring,  if  necessary, 
and  hot  milk  or  cream.       Serve  with  croutons. 


BEETROOT   SOUP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 
1  lb.  Boiled  Beetroot.  1  Onion. 

1  quart  White  Stock.  i  oz.  Arrowroot. 

i  pint  MUk.  Seasoning.. 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  gill  Cream. 

Melt  the  butter,  cook  the  onion  in  it  from  8  to  10 
minutes  (without  discolouring).  Add  stock,  beetroot 
sliced,  and  seasoning,  and  simmer  from  half  to  one  hour. 
Rub  through  a  hair  sieve.  Blend  the  arrowroot  smoothly 
with  n  little  of  the  milk.  Pour  on  soup.  Bring  to 
boiling  point.  Add  heated  cream  and  milk.  Serve 
with  croutons.  A  little  carmine  may  be  necessary  to 
improve  the  colour. 


CRECY   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Bed  Carrots.  1  quart  Stock  (light  coloured). 

1  Turnip.  1  Onion. 

Piece  Celery.  Pinch  Herbs. 

1  gill  Cream.  J  dessert-spoonful  Arrowroot. 

Boil  the  carrots  1  hour .  in  salted  water,  cut  up  and 
place  with  the  rest  of  the  vegetables  in  a  pan  with  the 
stock  and  seasoning.  Simmer  till  tender  (1  hour),  sieve. 
Blend  the  arrowroot  with  a  little  cold  stock  or  milk, 
add  hot  soup  to  it,  return  to  the  pan,  stir  till  it  boils, 
add  cream. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS.  41 

TURNIP   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  White  Stock.  2  slices  Bread  (soaked  in 

2  lbs.  Turnips.  Stock)., 

i   pint   Cream  or  Milk.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  large  Onion. 

P«el  and  cut  up  turnips.  Peel  and  slice  onion.  Add 
to  the  stock.  Add  the  bread  and  seasoning,  and  simmer 
all. together  till  tender.  Pass  all  through  a  -wire  sieve. 
Return  to  the  pan;  add  cream  or  mUk.  Reheat,  and 
serve  with  croutons. 


TAPIOCA   CREAM    SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  pint  White  Stock.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Yolks  of  2  Eggs.  1  gill  Cream. 

}  oz.  Crushed  Tapioca. 

Sprinkle  the  tapioca  into  boiling  stock.  Boil  until 
the  tapioca  is  clear.  Mix  the  yolks  and  cream  together, 
strain  into  soup  tureen,  pour  hot  soup  over. 

If  tapioca  remains  on  top,  the  egg  is  cooked;  if  not, 
return  to  pan  and  heat  thoroughly,  but  do  not  boil,  or 
eggs  and  cream  will  curdle.       Season  and  serve. 


CHICKEN   CREAM   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Carcase  of  Chicken.  1  Yolk. 

11  pints  Water.  i  gill  Cream. 

i   oz.  Eiee  Flour.  Chopped  Parsley. 

1  Onion.  Seasoning. 

Simmer  carcase  with  water  and  onion  for  1  hour. 
Strain  and  thicken  with  blended  rice  flour.  Boil  up  soup. 
Pour  over  yolk  and  cream  in  heated  tureen  and  serve 
with  fried  croutons   of  bread. 


42  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOUPS. 

PALERMO   SOUP. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

1  pint  White  Stock.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  oz.  Vermeeelli.  4  giU  Cream. 

1  giU  Tomato  Pulp  (sieved).       2  Yolks  of  Eggs. 

Cook  the  stock,  vermeeelli  and  tomato  pulp  for  15 
minutes.  Mix  yolks  and  cream  in  a  heated  tureen.  Add 
eeas^ed  soup  just  under  boiling  point. 


BONNE    FEMME   SOUP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 
J  pint  White  Stock.  2  table-spoonfuls  Shredded 

i  Yolk  of  Egg.  Cucumber. 

1  giU  Cream.  2  table-spoonfuls  Green  Peas. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Shredded         1  teaspoonful  Castor  Sugar. 
Lettuce.  i   oz.   Butter. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Shredded         Salt  and  Pepper. 
Spinach. 

Saute  the  vegetables,  sugar,  seasoning,  and  butter 
5  minutes.  Add  boUing  stock.  Boil  gently  10  minutes. 
Pour  over  beaten  egg  and  cream.       Serve. 


WHITE    LENTIL   SOUP. 

—  INGREDIENTS. 

J   lb.   Split  IJentils.  i  pint  Milk. 

2  stalks  Celery.  i  pint  Cream. 

2  sprigs  Parsley.  3  pints  cold  Water. 

1  Onion.  Small  blade  Mace. 

IJ  ozs.  Butter.  8  White  Peppercorns. 

IJ  ozs.  Mour.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Wash  the  lentils  well  in"  several  waters,  then  put  them 
on  to  boil  in  the  cold  water.     Skim  well'  as  the  soup  comes 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  SOUPS.  43 

to  boiling  point;  then  add  the  celery,  mace,  parsley,  onion, 
peppercorns,  and  seasoning.  Simmer  slowly  for  li  hours. 
Pass  the  soup  through  a  hair  sieve.  Put  the  butter  and 
flour  in  a  saucepan,  rub  them  together  over  the  fire  with  a 
wooden  spoon;  add  the  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  the 
sieved  soup.  Stir  until  boiling.  Just  before  serving  add 
the  cream.     Serve  with  sippets  of  fried  bread. 


ALEXANDRA   SOUP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Barley.  li  pints  Water. 

2  ozs.  Lentils.  4  pint  Tomato  Pulp. 

1  oz.  Fat.  Milk  (if  liked). 

4  Onion.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Put  lentils  and  barley  after  they  have  been  well  washed 
into  a  pan.  Then  add  water,  fat  and  onion,  bring  to 
boil,  and  simmer  for  IJ  hours.  Add  tomato  pulp 
and  cook  20  minutes  longer.  Rub  through  a  sieve. 
Reheat,   season  and   add   milk,  if  liked. 


CURRY   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Apple.  1  Onion. 

li  pints  Stock.  2  ozs.  Flour. 

1  teaspoonful  Ourry  Powder.  1  table-spoonful  Cocoanut. 

1  teaspoonful  Gurry  Paste.  i  Lemon. 

Soak  the  cocoanut  as  long  as  possible  in  the  stock. 
Fry  onion,  apple,  curry  powder,  and  seasoning  in  dripping 
for  20  minutes.  Add  stock,  allow  to  simmer  half  an 
hour,  thicken  with  flour,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  lemon 
juice,  pass  through  a  hair  sieve.       Serve  with  boiled  rice. 


44  SOVSEEOLD  COOKEEY  —  SOUPS. 

BROWN   VEGETABLE    SOUP^ 

INGBBDIENTS. 

4  Potatoes.  '1  oz.  Dripping. 

3  Onions.  3  pints  Bone  Stock. 

2  Carrots.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  Turnip.  1  table-spoonful  Flour. 

Clean  and  cut  up  the  vegetables.  Heat  dripping  in 
an  unlined  pan,  add  v^etables.  Fry  till  lightly  browned. 
Add  stock  and  seasoning,  bring  to  boiling  point,  simmer 
gently  till  vegetables  are  tender  (about  1  to  IJ  hours). 
Rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  add  blended  flour,  boil  a  few 
minutes.      Add  a  little  milk  (if  liked),  serve  with  eroutong, 


KIDNEY   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8  Sheep's  or  1  Ox  Kidney.  Bunch  Herts. 

1  oz.  Butter.  J  Turnip. 

1  Onion  (browned  if  4-5  pints  Brown  Stock, 
necessary).  IJ  ozs.  Cornflour  to  each 

2  Cloves.  quart. 

1  Carrot.  Seasoning. 

Cut  the  kidney  into  dice.  Wash  and  dry.  Fry 
quickly  in  butter,  and  add  to  stocji.  Tie  the  v^etables 
in  muslin,  add  to  the  soup,  with  seasoning  and  simmer 
2  hours.  Remove  vegetables,  thicken  with  cornflour,  boil 
a  few  minutes.       Add  (if  liked),  a  glass  of  sherry. 


GRAVY   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  Brown  Stock.  1  oz.  Macaroni. 

J  lb.  Shredded  Beef.  Seasoning. 

Boil  the  macaroni  till  tender  in  salted  water,  then  cut 

into  short  lengths  or  rings.      Place  the  shredded  beef  and 

seasoning  in  the  stock  and  simmer  for  1  hour.       Strain, 

'  remove   the   scum,    add   the   macaroni,    bring   to   boiling 

I)oint.      Add  (if  liked)  1  table-spoonful  ketchup.      Serve. 


ffO  USESOLD  CO  OKEB  ¥  —  80  UFS. 


45 


SEA.FOAM   SOUP. 


INGREDIENTS. 


1  pint  Milk. 

1  Onion. 

2  Cloves. 
Bayleaf. 
Blade  of  Mace. 
Bind  of  Cheese. 
6  White  Peppercorns.  / 
1  oz.  Butter. 
i    oz.   Flour. 


•■     Put  in  Milk  and   simmer. 


1  Egg. 

i  oz.  Parmesan   Cheese. 


Melt  butter,  add  flour,  cook  a  few  minutes.  Add 
seasoned  imlk  off  heat  gradually.  Stir  till  boiling,  cool 
a  little  then  pour  over  yolk  and  chopped  parsley  in  tureen. 
Put  spoonfuls  of  stiffly  whisked  white  on  top,  coat  with 
a  little  of  soup.       Sprinkle  cheese  on  top. 


IMITATION   HARE   SOUP. 


INGKEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Gravy  Beef. 
Small  piece  Turnip. 
1  teaspoonful  Red  Currant 
Jelly.  " 

1  table-spoonful  Claret  or 
Port  Wine. 

Seasoning.  ^ 

2  ozs.  Plour. 


1  quart  Water  or  Stock. 

2  ozs.  Butter. 
1  dessert-spoonful  Ketchup. 
1  teaspoonful  Worcester 

Sauce. 
Mixed  Herbs. 
1  Onion. 
1  small  Carrot. 


Cut  up  the  meat,  dip  in  seasoned  flour,  and  brown  in 
the  butter.      Brown  the  onion,  which  should  be  stuck  with 
cloves.      R«move  meat  and  onion  and  brown  flour.      Add 
the  water  and  boil,  then  put  back  the  meat  and  vegetables.' 
Simmer  gently  from  IJ  to  2  hoiirs.       Strain.       Return 


46  EOUSESOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOVFS. 

to  the  saucepan  and  add  flavouring,  also  Foroemeat  Balls, 
made  as  follows: — 

INGBEIJIENTS. 
2  table-spoonfuls  Bread-  1  Egg. 

crumbs.  1  teaspoonful  chopped  Suet. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  Seasoning. 

Parsley.  Little  grated  Lemon  Bind, 

i  teaspoonful  Herbs. 

Mix  together   and   make   into   small  balls.       Fry   and 
add  to  the  soup.       Simmer  10  minutes  in  the  soup. 


HARE   SOUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Hare.  2  ozs.  Lean  Ham. 

8  to  10  pints  Water.  2   Bay  Leaves, 

li  lbs.  l«an  Beef.  Sprig  Thyme. 

1  oz.  Flour.  1  Clove. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  i  Cariot. 
2  Onions.  J  Turnip. 

1  stick  Celery.  4  table-spoonfuls  Flour. 

J  pint  Port  Wine.  1  table^poonful  Bed 

Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne.  Currant  Jelly.' 

Cut  the  beef  into  small  pieces;  paunch  the  hare. 
Mix  the  flour  with  the  blood  and  leave  aside.  Chop 
the  ham ;  tie  the  herbs  in  muslin.  Fry  onion  golden  brown. 
Place  in  the  soup  pan  with  cut  up  joints,  add  the  water, 
beef,  and  seasoning,  and  simmer  gently  2  hours.  Add 
vegetables,  and  simmer  2  hours  longer.  Remove  best 
parts  when  tender  and  cut  up.  Strain.  Return  liquor 
to  the  pan.  Add  jelly  and  blended  flour  and  blood,  and 
stir  carefully  till  just  boiling.  Add  the  wine,  and  meat 
cut  from  the  back  in  shreds.       Serve. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEEY  —  SOUFS.  47 

OX-TAIL   SOUP. 


INGREDIENTS. 

1   Ox-tail. 

Bouquet  Herbs. 

2  ozs.   Butter. 

Glass  Sherry  (if  liked). 

i  lb.  Ham. 

Little  Mushroom  Ketchup. 

3  quarts  cold  Water. 

2  doves. 

1  lb.  Hough. 

Salt. 

2  Onions. 

1  Carrot. 

i  Turnip. 

2  table-spooniEuls  Comfloux 

2  pieces  Celery. 

(small). 

20  Peppercorns. 

Cut  the  tail  into  joints  after  washing.  .Fry  onion, 
add  cut  ham  and  joints,  add  water  and  simmer  2  hours. 
Add  vegetables,  herbs  and  seasoning  and  simmer  2  hours 
longer.  Strain.  Thicken  with  cornflour.  Boil  up  and 
serve  with  meat  from  joints  in  the  soup. 


MOCK  TURTLE   SOUP. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

1  Calf's  Head.  1  glass  Madeira  or  Sherry. 

2  lbs.  Knuckle  of  Veal.      -       Juice  Of  1  Lemon. 

2  Ibis.  iShin  of  Beef.  1  teaspoonful  Salt. 
1   Onion.  Cayenne. 

1  Carrot.  1  oz.  Butter. 

1  small  piece  Turnip.  Blade  of  Mace. 

J  head  Celery.  1  teaspoonful  Peppercorns. 

3  quarts  Water. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  sto^ek  pot.  Remove  fat  and  marrow 
from  meat  and  cut  the  meat  up.  Cut  vegetables.  Add 
meat,  vegetables,  seasoning,  and  1  pint  water  to  the  stock 
pot.  Cook  slowly  and  stir  occasionally.  Allow  to 
remain  till  bottom  is  covered  with  a  light  brown  glace. 
Scald  and  bone  the  calf's  head.  Put  it  in  the  stock 
pot  also.  Fill  up  with  2i  quarts  water.  Simmer  2J 
hours,  skimming  carefully.  The  head  should  now  be 
transparent  and  flexible  to  the  touch.  Take  it  out  and 
place  between  two  flat  plates,  with  a  weight  on  top,  till 


48  HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOUPS. 

cold.  Allow  remainder  of  stock  to  sinimer  6  hours. 
Strain  through  a  sieve.  Next  day  remove  all  the  fat  from 
stock.  Clarify  as  if  for  clear  soup.  Cut  flexible  parts 
of  head  into  square  pieces,  add  to  the  clarified  soap. 
Heat  the  soup  and  season  with  cayenne  and  salt.  Just 
before  serving  add  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  sherry  and  the 
lemon  juice. 


MULLIGATAWNY   SOUP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  Babbit  or  1  lb.  Veal.  2  ozs.  Xiean  Ham. 

2  good-Bized  Onions.  i  Turnip. 

2  Apples  (large  and  sour).  2  ozs.  Butter. 

1  large  teaspoonful  Curry         2  quarts  Second  Stock. 
Paste  and  Powder.  14  ozs.  Flour. 

3  ozs.  Dessioated  Coooanut.      Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Soak  the  cocoanut  in  the  stock  at  least  1  hour.  Put 
the  butter  in  the  pan,  when  hot  fry  the  ham  and  rabbit 
(cut  up),  and  add  the  onion  sliced  and  fry  it.  When 
these  are  brown  add  the  apple  (cut  up),  also  the  enrry 
paste  and  powder.  Saute  all  together  for  20  minutes, 
then  strain  and  add  the  stock,  seasoning,  and  lemon  juice; 
boil  gently  1  hour.  Mix  two  small  table-spoonfiils  flour 
witii  a  little  cold  stock,  add  to  the  soup  and  boil.  Small 
pieces  of  veal,  rabbit,  or  fowl  should  be  added  to  the 
strained  stock.  Serve  boiled  rice  with  the  soup  {see 
page  156). 


UUUSEUOLD  COOKERY  — WISE.  49 


FISH. 


GENERAL   RULES   FOR  CHOICE   AND 
PREPARATION   OF    FISH. 

1.  Choose  fish  in  season,  it  is  more  wholesome  and  has  a 
finer  flavour,  and  is  cheaper. 

2.  Choose  fresh  fish,  as  it  soon  deteriorates  and  becomes 
unwholesome. 

3.  When  fresh  the  flesh  is  firm  and  a  good  colour,  eyes 
bright,  gills  red,  smell  fresh  (one  of  the  best  tests).  Plenty 
of  scales  is  a  good  sign. 

4.  Fish  must  be  carefully  and  thoroughly  cleaned  before 
cooking;  the  blood  near  the  backbone  must  all  be  removed 
and  the  yellow  part  near  the  head,  it  has  a  bitter  flavour. 
The  black  skin  from  the  inside  of  cod,  haddock,  and  other 
fish  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  with  salt. 

5.  It  must  not  be  left  in  water  to  soak  as  it  destroys  the 
flavour  and  makes  the  fish  sodden. 

6.  The  fins  and  tails  and  scales  and  eyes  are  generally 
removed;  the  fins  of  turbot,  however,  are  considered  a 
delicacy,  and  the  scales  of  salmon  are  left  on. 


BOILED   WHITE    FISH. 

Wash  the  fish  thoroughly,  using  a  little  salt  to  remove 
any  dark  skin  or  blood,  tie  into  a  good  shape,  place  on 
a  drainer.  Bfeve  a  pan  of  boiling  water  sufiSieient  to 
cover,  draw  it  to  one  side,  add  salt  in  the  proportion  of 
one  table-spoonful  to  the  quart  and  on©  table-spoonful 
vinegar.  Place  the  fish  in  water  and  allow  the  fish  to 
cook  g«ntly  under  boiling  point  till  ready. 


60  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  FISH. 

Time — average  6  minutes  to  each  lb.  and .  6  minutes 
over;  for  a  large  cut,  10  minutes  to  each  lb.  and  10 
minutes  over.  When  done;  the  fins  and  tail  bones  will 
come  away  easily;  and  if  cut,  a  white  curdy  matter  will 
be  noted  between  the  flakes.  Drain  the  fish,  serve  on 
a  folded  napkin,  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

Serve  with  a  suitable  sauce.    - 

N.B. — When  possible,  fish  is  improved  by  being. boiled 
in  sea  water. 

BOILED   MACKEREL. 

Have  the  water  tepid  only,  and  cook  very  gently,  as 
the  skin  is  so  delicate. 


BOILED   SALT   FISH. 

Wash  and'  scrape  the  fish;  cut  into  neat  pieces  about 
four  inches  square.  Soak  the  fish  overnight  in  plenty 
of  cold  water,  with  skin  side  uppermost.  Put  it  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water;  when  it  boils,  pour  ofE  this  water  and 
fill  up  with  boiling  water.  Boil  gently  till  tender,  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Lift  the  fish  out  carefully, 
remove  the  skin,  dish  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with 
egg  sauce. 

N.B. — Cod,  ling,  and  tusk  are  the  white  fish  usually 
salted. 

STEWED    FISH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Plaice  or  Haddock.  1  small  table-spoonful  Flour. 

i  pint  Milk.  J  teaspoonful   Vinegar    or 
i  oz.    Butter.  Lemon  Juice. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  Salt  and  Pepper. 
Parsley. 

Wash,  and  cut  into  nice-sized  pieces  (not  too  small), 
and  when  the  mUk  is  hot  place  the  fish  in  it.  Simmer 
gently  until  cooked — (this  depends  on  kind  and  thickness 


EOVSEEOLD  COOKERY —  FISH.  51 

of  fish).  When  cooked,  remove  the  fish  into  a  hot  dish, 
and  thicken  tjie  milk  with  the  flour,  first  blending  it  with 
a  little  cold  milk.  Boil  up;  add  the  butter,  parsley, 
lemon   juice,   seasoning,  and   pour  over  the  fish. 

N.B. — This  is  a  good  method  of  cooking  fish  for  an 
invalid.      White  fish  is  the  kind  generally  stewed. 

FISH   BAKED    IN   MILK. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  Whiting   (skinned).  About  i  pint  Milk. 

1  small  table-spoonful  Seasoning. 

Flour.  i  oz.  Margarine  or  Butter. 

1  small  table-spoonful 
Parsley  (if  liked). 

Wash  the  fish  in  salted  water;  truss  it;  place  it  in 
a  tin  with  a  little  dripping  or  butter  on  top,  and  pour 
the  milk  round.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  the  fish 
is  cooked;  baste  frequently  with  the  milk.  Then  remove 
on  to  a  hot  dish.  Thicken  the  milk  with  the  blended 
flour,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  the  chopped 
parsley,  and  pour  over  the  fish. 

BAKED    STUFFED    HADDOCK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Haddock.  Some  Dripping  (for  cooking). 

Stuffed  as  follows: — 

2  ozs.  stale  Bread.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  oz.  Dripping  or  J  table-spoonful  chopped 

Margarine.  Parsley. 

A  little  MUk  to  bind  or 

1  Egg. 

Clean  the  fish  as  for  boiling.  Soak  the  bread  in  cold 
water,  melt  the  dripping,  chop  the  parsley.  Then  squeeze 
the  bread  dry,  and  crumb  it  lightly  with  a  fork.  Mix 
all  the  ingredients,  using  a  little  milk  if  necessary.  Fill 
the  inside  of  the  fish  with  this,  sew  it  up  with  a  needle 
and  cotton,  then  truss  it  by  placing  the  tail  through  the 

\ 


52  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  FISH. 

eyeholes.  Make  about  2  ozs.  of  dripping  hot  in  a  tin, 
and  place  the  haddock  in.  Baste  with  hot  fat  at  once. 
Put  to  cook  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  and  allow  it  to  bake 
about  half  an  hour.  Baste  very  frequently,  and  when 
just  about  half  done,  baste  and  sprinkle  over  a  few  bread 
raspings,  to  brown.  When  ready,  place  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve,  if  liked,  with  brown  sauce. 
N.B. — A  middle  cut  of  cod  or  ling  may  be  done 
similarly;  also  herring  and  plaice. 

BAKED    FILLETS   OF   PLAICE. 

Wash  and  dry  a  medium-sized  plaice.  Run  knife  right 
down  middle  of  backbone,  remove  fillets,  lay  on  board 
with  skin  side  down,  and  then  remove  skin  and  sprinkle 
each  fillet  with  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Fold  or  roll  up, 
skin  side  inside,  place  on  a  greased  tin,  cover  with  greased 
paper,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  10  or  15  minutes  (depends 
on  thickness  of  fish).  Coat  with  a  suitable  sauce  and 
serve.     . 

STUFFED   HERRING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  tablespoonful  Oatmeal.  1  tablespoonful  melted 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  Dripping. 

Parsley.  Seasoning. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped 

Onion. 

Bone  two  herrings.  Place  on  a  greased  tin,  one  skin 
down,  stuffing  on  top,  second  skin  uppermost.  Place 
small  pats  of  dripping  on  top  them  bake  for  J  hour  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven.    Serve  hot,  garnished  with  parsley. 

TO  BAKE,  POT  OR  SOUSE  HERRING 
OR  MACKEREL. 

Wash  and  clean  the  fish  thoroughly,  remove  the  backbone. 
Sprinkle  each  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  them  up,  skin 


E0U8EB0LD  COOKEBY —  FISH.  53 

side  out;  place  in  a  pie-dish,  pour  in  as  much  water 
and  vinegar  as  will  nearly  cover  them  (equal  proportions 
of  water  and  vinegar),  add  two  bay  leaves,  one  doz.  black 
peppercorns;  cover  closely  and  bake  for  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

N.B. — The  roe  should  be  replaced  after  cleaning. 

STEAMED    FISH. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

Any  kind  of  White  Lemon  Juice. 

Fish. 
Salt  and  Pepper. 

Wash,  skin,  truss  accor'ding  to  kind.  Place  on  a  buttered 
plate.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  lemon  juice,  add 
a  few  pats  of  butter.  Cover  with  a  basin,  and  place  over 
a  pan  containing  boiling  water,  and  allow  to  steam  20 
to  30  minutes.  Pour  over  liquid,  serve.  Garnish  with 
a  little  parsley. 

N.B. — Thick  pieces  of  fish  would,  of  course,  take  longer 
time  in  proportion. 

FRIED    FISH. 
FRIED   COD    STEAK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

God.  Fat  to  fry  in. 

Little  Flour  and  Milk.  Parsley  to  garnish. 

Get  a  steak  of  cod  from  the  tail  end  about  one  inch 
thick,  wash  and  dry  very  quickly;  immediately  before 
frying  dip  in  a  little  milk,  then  in  seasoned  flour.  Have 
the  fat  smoking  hot  and  plaice  the  cod  in  gently;  fry 
about  2i  to  3  minutes  on  one  side,  turn  and  fry  on  the 
other  side  until  nice  and  brown,  and  until  the  flesh  will 
leave  the  bone  when   pressed,   baste   well  the   fried   side 


54  '     HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  FISH. 

while  cooking,  after  turning;  then  lift  at  once,  drain 
thoroughly,  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  dish  paper,  garnish 
with  parsley.      Serve  a  suitable  sauoe. 

FRIED   PLAICE. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  Plaice.  Breadcrumbs  or  Raspings. 

1  Egg.  Lemon. 

Pat  to  fry  in. 

Clean,  remove  head,  wash  and  dry  the  fish,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Beat  up  an  egg  on  a  plate, 
brush  the  fish  all  over  with  the  egg,  cover  with  bread- 
crumbs, shaking  off  the  loose  ones.  Place  in  smoking 
hot  fat  (shallow),  cook  on  one  side,  turn,  baste  well  whilst 
cooking  second  side  and  fry  a  golden  colour.  Drain 
on  paper,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon.  Any 
fish  may  be  fried  in  the  same  way.  If  liked,  the  fish 
may  be  skinned  before  being  coated. 

A  suitable  sauce  should  be  served. 

FRIED   FISH   IN   BATTER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Coating  Batter  (see  Fish. 

page  344). 

Remove  skin  and  bone  from  fish,  and  cut  in  convenient 
pieces.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  smoking  hot  fat.  Dip 
each  piece  of  fish  in  batter,  then  fry  till  ready. 

Serve  at  once  with  suitable  sauce. 

FRIED   HERRING. 

First  Method. — ^Clean  herring  and  remove  head  and  fins, 
except  the  tail.  Dty  thoroughly,  score  across  in  two  or 
three  places,  then  dip  in  oatmeal,  and  fry  in  a  littl« 
hot  fat  on  both  sides.      Garnish  with  parsley. 

Second  Method. — Split  herring  and  remove  backbone; 
dip  skin  side  in  oatmeal,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  FISE.  55 

GRILLED    FISH. 

GRILLED   KIPPERED    HERRING. 

Place  the  herring  on  a  heated  gridiron,  and  cook  over 
a  clear  fire  or  under  a  gas  grill  till  nicely  browned.  Put 
the  side  without  the  skin  next  to -the  heat  first.  The 
herring  may  be  cooked  in  a  frying-pan. 

GRILLED    FRESH   FISH. 

Cod  Steak,  Mackerel  or  Fresh  Herring. 

Brush  with  dripping,  season,  score  and  grill  before  a 
clear  fire,  turn  once  only.  Serve  Anchovy  Sauce  if  white 
fish;  Mustard  Sauce  if  herring. 

REHEATED    FISH   DISHES    (PLAIN). 
FISH    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cooked  Fish.  Seasoning. 

i  pint  Parsley  Sauce.  Nutmeg  or  Mace  (if  liked). 

Removie  skin  and  bone  from  fish  when  hot  and  break 

into  nice  flakes,  add  these  to  the  sauce  with  the  seasoning. 

Turn  into  a  'greased  pie-dish,  sprinkle  over  with  bread 

raspings  and  beat  through  in  a  moderate  oven.       Do  not 

boil;  takes  about  20  to  30  minutes. 

Parsley  Sauce  {see  page  238). 

FISH   PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cold  Fish  (salt  or              1  oz.  Dripping  or  Butter. 

fresh).  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  lb.  boiled  Potatoes  1  table-spoonful  of  Milk. 

(mashed). 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  fish,  break  it  up,  mix 
with  the  potatoes,  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  put  the  mixture 


56  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEMY —  FISH. 

into  a  greased  pie-dish,  smooth  over  the  top,  brush  with 
milk,  brown  in  the  oven  or  before  the  fire. 

N.B. — The  above  mixture  may  be  turned  on  to  a  greased 
tin  in  the  form  of  a  trussed  fish,  brushed  with  egg  and 
baked. 

FISH   CAKES. 

INGKEDIENTS. 

4  lb.  cold  Fish.  1  oz.  Butter  or  Margarine, 

i  lb.  cold  Potatoes.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

To  Coat. — Milk  and  Flour,  or  beaten  Egg  and  Crumbs  or 


Remove  skin  and  bone  from  flsh  while  hot  and  flake 
it  with  two  forks.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  mix  with  the 
flsh,  add  the  melted  margarine  and  seasoning,  mix  well; 
if  necessary  for  binding,  add  a  little  milk  or  oold  sauce. 
Form  into  balls,  then  into  cakes  (12  cakes),  coat  well. 
Fry  in  hot  fat,  drain,  dish  on  an  ashet  with  dish  paper. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

PLAIN  KEDGEREE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cold  White  or  Salt  1  oz.  Margarine. 

Fish.  Salt  and  Pepper, 

i  lb.  Kice  (boiled).  Chopped  Parsley, 

little  cold  Sauee. 

Flake  the  flsh.       Melt   the  margarine  in   fairly  large 

pan,  add  the  flsh  and  rice,  sauce  and  seasoning.       Stir 

till  very  hot.      Serve  in  a  pile  on  a  hot  dish.      Sprinkle 

with  chopped  parsley. 

'2V.B.— When  eggs  ar©  cheap  a  raw  egg  instead  of  sauce, 

and  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped,  may  be  added  to  the  above. 

BOILED   SALMON. 

Wash  the  salmon  well,  but  do  not  take  the  scales,  head, 
nor  tail   off.       Form   in  the   letter  "S"    (if   liked)    by 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  FISH.  57 

drawing  a  string  through  the  tail,  centre  of  body,  and 
head,  or  leave  plain.  Boil  in  salted  water,  allowing  ten 
minutes  to  the  lb.  and  ten  minutes  over.  Serve  with 
cucumber,  HoUandaise,  capej,  Maitre  d'Hotel,  oyster, 
curry,  or  tartare  sauce. 

Garnish  the  fish  with  lemon,  cucumber,  and  (if  liked) 
small  fried  fish,  e.g.,  smelts. 

N.B. — Vinegar  can  be  added  to  the  water  when  the  fish 
is  whole,  but  not  if  only  boiling  a  cut,  as  it  spoils  the 
colour. 


DRESSED   HADDOCKS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Haddocks.  6  Cooked  Potatoes. 

3  Eggs.  li  ozs.  Butter. 
Salt  and  Pepper.  Breadcrumbs. 

Wash,  skin,  and  fillet  the  haddocks.  Cut  each  fillet 
neatly,  dry  thoroughly,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Brush  each  fillet  with  beaten  egg  and  shake  in  fine  crumbs. 
Mash  the  potatoes  smoothly,  add  to  them  the  melted  butter, 
one  small  egg,  and  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Roll 
the  mixture  into  small  balls,  brush  each  over  with  egg  and 
shake  in  crumbs.  Try  the  potatoes  and  fillets  a  nice 
shade  in  hot  fat.'  Dish  the  potato  balls  in  centre  of  the 
dish  and  the  fillets  round.  Serve  with  white  sauce  made 
with  fish  stock. 


DRESSED   COD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  lbs.  mid-cut  Cod  (skinned).  2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs. 

i  teaspoonful  mixed  Herbs.  Grated  Bind  i  Lemon. 

Pepper  and  Salt.  Few  grains  Cayenne. 

1  Egg.  1  lb.  Butter. 

Mix  the  crumbs,  herbs,  lemon  and  seasonings  together. 
Wash  the  cod  in  salt  and  water,  dry  it  well.       Brush  it 


58  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  FISE. 

over  with  beaten  ^g  and  dust  it  thickly  with  the  seasoned 
crumbs.  Lay  the  cod  on  a  drainer  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (basting  frequently  with  the  butter)  for  about  IJ 
hours.  When  half  done,  turn  the  cod,  brush  again  with 
egg  and  sprinkle  with  the  remainder  of  seasoned  crumbs, 
return  to  oven  to  finish  baking.  Serve  very  hot  with 
white  or  Dutch  sauce. 


DRESSED   STUFFED   COD. 

INGREDIBNTS. 

2  lbs.  Cod  (middle  cut).  1  Egg. 

3  table-spoonfuls  Stuffing 
(see  page  344). 

Wash,  skin  and  dry  the  cod,  and  brush  over  with  egg. 
Mix  the  forcemeat  and  coat  with  same.  Have  a  tin  hot 
with  a  little  butter  in  it,  place  in  the  cod  and  bake  till 
cooked,  basting  frequently.  When  cooked,  add  some  hot 
water  or  fish  stock  to  the  tin,  season,  and  strain  round 
the  fish. 


STUFFED   COD    STEAKS. 

Have  two  cod  steaks,  cut  about  one  inch  thick.  Wash 
them  in  salted  water  and  dry  thoroughly;  bone  them. 

Prepare  a  Forcemeat  of 

2  table-spoonfuls  Bread-  Pinch  Sweet  Herbs. 

crumbs.  Pepper,  Salt,  Cayenne. 

6  Oysters   or   Shrimps.  1  Egg. 

1  oz.  Butter  (melted), 
i  teaspoonful  chopped 

Parsley. 

KU  the  centre  of  the  cod  steaks  with  the  stuffing,  piling 
it  high.  Dust  over  some  crumbs,  place  in  a  dripping-tin 
with  1  or  2  ozs.  melted  butter,  and  bake  in  a  fairly- 
quick  oven  20  minutes. 


BOUSEHOLD  COOKEET  —  FISS.  59 

PLAICE   A    LA   MAITRE   D'HOTEL. 

INGREDIENTS.  , 
Fillets  of  Plaice   (washed  Maitre  d 'Hotel  Sauce 

and  dried).  {see  page  243^. 

Salt,  Pepper,  Lemon  Juice. 

Fold  the  fillets  in  fichu  shape,  place  on  a  buttered  tin. 
Cover  with  greased  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
from  10  to  15  minutes.  Four  the  sauoe  over  and  garnish 
with  cut  lemon  and  parsley. 

SOLE   A    LA   PORTUGAISE. 

INGRBDIEJfTS. 

1  Sole.  1  or  2  sliced  Onions. 

2  Tomatoes.  Pew  Browned  Crumbs. 

For  the  Stuffing — 

2  table-spoonfuls  Bread-  J  teaspoonful  Anchovy 

crumbs.  Essence. 

2  teaspoonfuls  grated  1  teaspoonful  melted  Butter. 

Cheese.  Small  piece  chopped  Onion. 

Seasoning. 

Mix  all  together  and  use  for  stuffing. 

Skin  and  raise  fillets  as  if  to  remove  them;  wash  and 
dry;  place  the  stuffing  inside  the  raised  fillets,  and  put 
fish  on  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  after  buttering 
the  dish.  Cut  the  tomatoes  thickly.  Place  sliced  onions 
and  toihatoes  over  the  fish,  then  sprinkle  with  browned 
crumbs.  Place  the  dish  in  a  dripping-tin  containing 
water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  half  an  hour. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

FISH   MOULDS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  filleted  Haddock.  1  oz.  Bread  Crumbs, 

li  ozs.  chopped  Suet.  1  Egg. 

About  i  tea-cup  Milk.  Salt,   Pepper, 
i  pint  Parsley  or  Egg  Sauce. 

Cut  raw  fish  into   small  pieces.       Mix  all  ingredients 

together.      Steam  about  1  hour.      Turn  out  and  coat  with 

either  parsley  or  egg  sauce. 

\ 


60  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEET  —  FISH. 

SOLE   A   LA   ROUENNAISE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  Sole  (li  lbs.).  i  gill  Milk  or  Fish  Stock. 

2  ozs.  Lobster.  SeasoBing. 
Lemon  Juice.                                 Parsley. 

J  oz.  Flour.  Sieved  Yolk  and  Coralline 

i  oz.  Butter.  Pepper  to  garnish. 

Skin  and  fillet  the  sole;  wash  and  dry;  make  a  panada 
with  the  butter,  flour,  and  stock.  Chop  the  lobster  and 
add  to  the  panada,  season,  spread  on  a  plate  to  cool. 
Divide  into  four  pieces,  place  one  portion  on  each  fillet, 
fold  over  and  trim.  Place  in  a  thickly-buttered  tin, 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  bake  10  to  15  minutes.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish  and  coat  with  white  sauce.  Garnish  with 
chopped  parsley,  coralline  pepper  and  sieved  yolk  of  egg. 


SOLE   AU   GRATIN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Sole.  Lemon   Butterflies. 

2  ozs.  Browned  Crumbs.  J  oz.  clarified  Margarine. 
Small  piece  Onion.               \ 

1  Mushroom.  1 

1  teaspoonful  chopped        \  Mixture. 

Parsley.  I 

Seasoning.  j 

Skin  the  sole  on  both  sides  and  trim.  Blanch  onion  and 
chop  finely — ^mix  with  the  prepared  chopped  mushroom 
and  parsley,  add  seasoning.  Place  i  the  mixture  down 
the  centre  of  a  greased  oval  entree  dish — lay  sole  on  top. 
Score  it  2  or  3  times  and  place  remainder  of  mixture  on 
top.  Cover  with  browned  crumbs  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  35-40  minutes.  Pour  the  clarified 
margarine  round  and  garnish  with  lemon  butterflies. 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  FISH.  61 

SOLE   A    LA   CREME    BLANCHE. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  Sole  (about  1  lb.).  1  Blade  Mace. 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  Bay  Leaf. 

1  oz.  Flour.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayeime. 

Squeeze  Lemon  Juice.  1  table-spoonful  Cream. 

i  pint  Milk. 

Skin  and  fillet  the  sole.  Wash  and  dry.  Season 
and  roll  the  fillets  up  neatly,  fastening  with  a  small  skewer. 
Wash  the  bones  and  skin  of  the  fish  and  put  them  into 
a  pan  with  the  milk,  bay  leaf  and  mace.  Simmer  gently 
for  half  an  hour.  Strain  the  milk  and  return  it  to  the 
pan  with  the  fillets,  simmer  gently  15  minutes.  Melt 
butter,  add  flour,  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  J  pint 
milk  from  the  fillets  and  stir  till  it  boils,  then  boil  a 
few  minutes.  Add  cream  and  seasoning.  Strain  ovej 
the  fillets.     ,  Garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 


SOLE   AUX   CREVETTES. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  Sole.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Pinch  Maee.  Cut  Lemon  to  garnish. 

1  oz.  Butter.  J  pint  Fish  Veloute  Sauce 

i  gill  picked  Shrimps.  (see  page  241). 

Skin  and  fillet  the  sole,  wash  and  dry,  sprinkle  the 
fillets  with  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Chop  the  shrimps  and 
pound  with  butter.  Add  the  mace  and  spread  this 
mixture  on  the  sole.  Roll  up  and  fasten  with  a  wooden 
skewer.  Place  in  a  buttered  tin,  cover  with  buttered 
paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  25  minutes.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish  and'  coat  with  sauee,  garnish  with  the  cut 
lemon  and  shrimps. 


WHOLE    SOLE    FRIED   AND    STUFFED. 

Lift  fillets  from  one  side  of  skinned  fish  but  do  not 
remove.     Roll  back  fillets,  coat  with  egg  and  breadcrumbs 


62  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  FISH. 

and  fry  covered  with  hot  fat.  Fill  inside  with  shrimp 
butter  and  place  rounds  of  heated  orange  on  top  of 
opening.       Sprinkle  over  finely  chopped  parsley. 

BAKED    STUFFED   SOLE. 

INGEEDIEKTS.  > 

1  Sole  (about  2  lbs.  weight).      J  teaspoonful  Herbs. 

3  sprigs  Parsley.  1  small  teaspoonful  Salt. 

i  gill  picked  Shrimps.  Little  Nutmeg. 

2  table-spoonfuls   Crumbs.  2  ozs.  Butter. 

Juice  and  Bind  of  i  Lemon.  2  table-t&poonfuls  Browned 

i  small  Shallot.                      '  Crumbs. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 
1  Egg. 

Skin  the  sole  on  both  sides,  and  raise  the  flesh  as  if 
for  filleting  on  the  thicker  side.  Wash  and  dry.  Chop 
the  shrimps,  parsley,  and  shallot  finely.  Melt  1  oz. 
butter  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  for  stuffing  together. 
Fill  the  space  in  the  sole  with  it  and  pull  the  fillets 
over  the  stuffing.  Put  half  the  2  ozs.  butter  on  the  dish 
in  which  the  sole  is  to  be  served,  and  lay  the  sole  in. 
Sprinkle  over  with  browned  breadcrumbs  and  put  the 
rest  of  the  butter  on  top.  Place  the  dish  of  sole  in  a 
dripping-tin  containing  some  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  half  an  hour.  Garnish  with  cut  lemon  and 
parsley. 

FRIED   WHITING. 

IN6EEDIENTS. 

Whiting.  Parsley. 

Egg  and  Crumbs.  Lemon  for  garnish. 

Hot  Tat. 

Clean,  wash  and\6kin  the  fish,  put  the  tail  through  the 
mouth.  Dust  lightly  with  well-seasoned  flour.  Brush 
with  egg  and  toss  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  smoking  fat  till 
golden  brown.  Drain  and  serve  on  hot  dish.  Garnish 
with  lemon  and  fried  parsley  (see  page  161). 


EOUSESOLD  COOEEBT  —  FISS.  63 

'   WHITEBAIT. 

Pick  over.  Keep  on  ice  or  in  salt  and  water  till 
wanted.  Spread  out  separately  between  the  folds  of  a 
soft  cloth  for  a  short  time.  Shake  in  a  dry  cloth,  dust 
with  fine  flour.  Arrange  in  a  frying-basket  (apart). 
Plunge  into  fat,  which  is  just  smoking,  one  or  two  minutes 
tUl  cooked,  but  still  soft.  Drain.  When  all  are  done 
have  the  fat  very  hot  (400  deg.  F.)  and  plunge  in  for 
about  a  minute.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Drain.  Serve 
with  cut  lemon  and  fried  parsley.  Rolls  of  brown  bread 
and  butter  should  be  served  separately. 

N.B. — If  wished  devilled,  sprinkle  with  cayenne. 


FRIED    FILLETS    PLAICE. 

rUlet  the  plaice;  then  skin  each  fillet,  wash  and  dry, 
sprinkle  salt  and  lemon  juice  over;  egg  and  breadcrumb 
each  fillet.  Fry  in  hot  fat  a  golden  brown.  Draiii  on 
soft  paper,  and  serve  on  a  dish-paper;  garnish  with 
parsley,  fried  {see  page  161).    Serve  with  lemon  and  sauce. 

RIBBON   FILLETS    SOLE. 

Skin  and  fillet  the  sole,  wash  and  dry.  Cut  each  fillet 
in  two,  lengthwise.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  lemon  juice 
and  tie  up  in  a  loose  knot.  Dip  in  beaten  egg  and 
toss  in  breadcrumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  till  a  golden  brown 
and  thoroughly  cooked  through  the  thick  part.  Dish  on 
a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  fried  parsley  and  cut  lemon. 
Serve  with  any  suitable  sauce.  Fried  parsley  (see 
page  161). 


64  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  FISH. 

FISH   IN   BATTER. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

IJ  lbs.  Cod.  1  gill  rrying  Batter  (see 

,         page  254). 

Make  the  batter;  let  it  stand  half  an  hoirr.  Remove 
the  skin  and  bone  from  the  fish,  wash,  dry,  and  season 
with  salt.  Divide  into  nice-sized  pieces.  Dip  each 
piece  into  batter,  and  fry  in  the  hot  fat  a  nice  brown. 
Garnish  with  fried  parsley.       Serve  immediately. 

FISH   CAKES    (No.  1). 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  lb.  cooked  rish.  BTeaderumba. 

4  ozs.  Potatoes.  Fat  to  fry  in. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  Salt  and  Pepper. 
2  Eggs. 

Remove  skin  and  bone  from  the  fish,  mix  it  with  the 
potatoes,  butter  (melted),  salt  and  pepper;  add  one  egg, 
well  beaten;  mix  all  together.  Form  the  mixture  into 
small  cakes.  Beat  up  the  other  egg  on  a  plate.  Brush 
the  fish  cakes  over  with  egg,  toss  in  crumbs  and  shape 
neatly  again.  Have  the  fat  very  hot  and  fry  the  cakes 
a  golden  brown.      Dish  in  a  circle  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

FISH   CAKES    (No.  2). 

INGEEDIKNTS. 

,  i  lb.  cooked  Pish.  Ground  Mace. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  Milk. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Chopped  Parsley. 

1  Egg.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Remove  the  skin  and  bone  from  the  fish  and  flake  it 
finely.  Mix  together  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  chopped 
parsley,  add  the  beaten  egg  and  melted  butter  and  milk, 
form  into  cakes,  brush  with  egg  and  crumbs;  fry  in  deep 
fat.       Serve  on  a  dish-paper  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEST —  FISH.  65 

FISH   CROQUETTES   OR   CUTLETS. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cooked  Fish  or  1  tin  1  gill  Milk. 

Lobster.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Little  Anchovy  Essence. 

1  oz.  Flour.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  pan,  add  flour  and  milk,  and  stir 
until  boiling.  Cook  thoroughly.  Add  fish  which  has 
been  finely  flaked,  anchovy  essence,  and  seasoning.  Turn 
on  a  plate  to  get  quite  cold,  divide  into  eight  or  nine 
pieces,  form  into  croquettes,  egg,  crumb,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat. 

N.B. — These  may  be  formed  into  balls  or  cutlets. 


KEDGEREE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cold  Fish.  Little  Milk. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  1  hard-boiled  Egg. 

ilb.  Patna  Rice,  boiled  Little  Ground  Mace. 

(see  page  156).  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Cayenne. 
1  raw  Egg. 

Melt  the  butter;  add  rice  and  flaked  fish,  seasoning  and 
egg  (beaten).  Stir  over  fire  till  thoroughly  hot.  If 
dry,  add  a  little  milk.  Sieve  the  yolk.  Use  white  as 
a  garnish,  or  chop  and  put  with  rice  in  pan.  Serve  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  sieved  yolk  and  a  little  parsley. 


SCALLOPED    FISH. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

f  pint  Bfichamel  Sauce.  Fried  Crumbs. 

i  lb.  cooked  Fish. 

Place  fish,  in  large  flakes,  in  alternate  layers  with  sauce 
in  a  buttered  pie-dish  or  shells.  Sprinkle  over  with 
browned  crumbs  and  heat  through  in  the  oven,      i 


66  BOVSBHOLD  COOKEBT —  FISS. 

SCALLOPED   SHELL   FISH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Mussels,  Limpets,  or^  Cockles. 

Shell  the  fish,  place  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish, 
sprinkle  liberally  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  lemon 
]uice,  cover  with  breadcrumbs,  place  some  pieces  of  butter 
over,  and  bake  till  hot  through  in  a  moderate  oven.  If 
liked,  brown  crumbs  may  be  sprinkled  over. 


SCALLOPED   OYSTERS. 

INGREDIENTS.. 

10  Oysters.  ^  2  or  3  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Cayenne. 

1  oz.  Flour.  Squeeze  Lemon  Juice, 

i  pint  Oyster  Liquor  and 
Milk. 

Beard  the  oysters.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  butter, 
flour,  milk,  and  cream.  Add  oysters,  salt,  pepper, 
cayenne,  and  lemon  juice.  Have  ready  some  buttered 
scallop  shells  or  ramekin  cases.  Place  in  the  mixture 
and  sprinkle  over  with  browned  crumbs.  Heat  through 
in  the  oven,  but  do  not  cook  the  oysters.  Garnish  with 
water-cress. 


CURRY   OF   FISH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Filletted  Haddock,  J  pint  Curry  Sauce 

Plaice,  or  Lemon  Sole.  (see  page  246). 

Simmer  the  sauce  half  an  hour,  strain,  and  return  to 
the  rinsed  saucepan.  Put  the  fish,  cut  in  pieces,  into 
the  sauce,  and  cook  gently  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  with 
3  ozs.  of  well-boiled  rice. 


BOVSEBOLD  COOKEBT  —  FISB.  67 

FISH   SOUFFLE. 

..  INGREDIENTS. 

li  ozs.  Butter.  1  teaspoonful  Anchovy 

li  ozs.  Flour.  Essence. 

i  pint  Milk.  1  teaspoonful  Savoury 

3  Eggs  and  1  extra  White.  Vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  Worcester  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Sauce.  J  pint  Anchovy  Sauce. 
}  tin  Lobster,  or  6  ozs. 

sieved  Fish. 

Chop  the  lobster,  or  sieve  the  fresh  fish.  Make  a 
panada  with  flour,  butter,  and  milk;  when  cooked,  add 
seasonings  and  flavourings.  Add  flsh  to  the  panada,  and 
whfe  cool  enough,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  beating  well  after 
each  is  added,  then  fold  in  the  whites,  which  have  been 
stiffly  whisked;  place  in  a  prepared  souffle  tin.  Steam 
steadily  40  minutes.  Coat  the  souffle  with  anchovy  sauce 
and  garnish  with  chopped  parsley. 

FISH   CREAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  raw  Whiting  (sieved).  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Cayenne. 

i  pint  Cream.  2  Eggs. 

1  gill  Fish  Stock.  Squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

1  oz.  Butter.  White  Sauce  to  coat, 
li  ozs.  Flour. 

Make  a  panada  with  the  butter,  flour  and  stock.  Add 
fish  and  seasoning,  also  eggs  (beaten),  and  the  cream 
(whisked).  Pour  into  well-buttered  moulds  and  steam 
gently  till  firm.  Coat  with  white  sauce  (Bechamel  or 
Velonte). 

FISH    IN   CUSTARD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Filletted  White  Fish.      3  Eggs. 

1  pint  Milk.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Cut  the  fish  into  nice-sized  pieces  and  dip  in  seasoned 
flour.       Place  in  a  buttered  pie-dish.       Make  the  custard 


68  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  FISH. 

Season  and  strain  over  the  fish.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  nicely  browned,  set,  and  the  fish  quite  ready 
— about  one  hour. 

QUENELLES   OF   WHITING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  WMtirig  (after  sieving).  3   or   4  table-spoonfuls  Pish 

3  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  Stock  or  Milk. 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  table-spoonful  Anchovy 

2  Tolks  of  Eggs.  Essence. 

1  White  of  Egg.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Soak  the  breadcrumbs  in  milk;  then  squeeze  in  comer 
of  cloth.  Melt  butter,  add  crumbs  and  cook  till  they 
have  absorbed  butter.  Add  fish,  beaten  egg,  and  season- 
ings. Pound  together.  Dip  two  dessert-spoons  in  boiling 
water.  Shape  mixture  into  neat  queilelles.  Place  on 
a  thickly-buttered  saute  pan;  add  salt;  pour  over  boiling 
water.  Poach  gently  till  firm  (about  10  minutes).  Drain 
on  a  cloth.  Dish  in  a  circle  in  a  round  entree  dish;  coat 
with  HoUandaise,  anchovy  or  white  sauce.  Pile  cooked 
green  peas  in  centre.  Garnish  with  powdered  parsley  and 
coralline  pepper. 

OYSTER   PATTIES. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Puff  Pastry  J  pint  Oyster  Liquor. 

(see  page  303).  Lemon  Juice. 

15  Oysters.  Salt,  Pepper  and  Cayenne. 

1  oz.  Butter.  2  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 
1  oz.  Flour. 

Roll  out  the  puff  paltry,  and  stamp  out  the  patties 
with  a  round  cutter  (J  lb.  12  patty  case).  Mark  in  the 
centre  of  the  round  with  a  pastry  cutter  two  sizes  smaller, 
but  do  not  cut  through.  Brush  the  outer  ring  with  egg. 
Cut  out  some  tops  for  the  pastry  oases  with  the  remaining 
pastry,  using  the  small  cutter  as  used  for  marking  the 
Urge  rounds.       Bake  all  in  a  hot  oven,  paying  careful 


Household  cooke:bt  —  fiss.  69 

attention  to  the  tops,  as  they  burn  easily.  When  cooked 
and  well  risen,  remove  the  soft  part  in  the  patty  cases. 
Fill  with  the  mixture.  Place  tops  on  the  cases  and 
serve  hot. 

Mixture. — Beard  the  oysters,  and(  if  large,  cut  in  two 
or  four.  Make  a  sauce  from  the  flour,  butter,  oyster 
liquor,  and  cream,  stir  till  boiling,  cook  well.,  Add  the 
oysters  and  lemon  juioe.  Season  nicely  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  cayenne.  Fill  each  patty  with  the  mixture 
and  serve  hot. 

FISH    PASTRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Flaky  or  Bough  PuS  1  chopped  Gherkin. 

Pastry.  Seasoning. 

6  ozs.  cooked  Pish.  1  teaspoonful  chopped 
Sauce  flavoured  with  Capers. 

Anchovy  (J   gill).  1  chopped  hard-boiled  Egg. 

Roll  the  pastry  to  an  oblong  length.  Mix  the  fish 
with  the  sauce  and  seasoning,  and  place  on  pastry.  Brush 
the  edges  with  egg.  Fold  over.  Brush  with  egg  and 
decorate  with  leaves.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  on 
a  fancy  paper.  A  few  oysters  or  shrimps  would  improve 
the  mixture. 

FISH   MOULD. 

INGREDIENTS, 
i  lb.  cold  Pish.  2  table-spoonfuls  melted 

2  Eggs._  Butter. 

.Seasoning.  i  teaspoonful  chopped 

2  table-spoonfuls  Parsley. 

Breadcrumbs.  2  table-spoonfuls   White 

Sauce. 

Soak  crumbs  in  a  little  milk.  Squeeze  dry  in  clean 
towel,  pound  fish  with  the  butter.  Add  breadcrumbs, 
sauce,  eggs  and  seasoning ;  mix  well.  Steam  in  a  buttered 
tin  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  anchovy  sauce  poured 
over  and  round.       Garnish  with  cut  lemon  and  parsley. 


70  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY —  FISB.. 

DRESSED   CRAB. 

Leave  the  crab  for  about  20  minutes  in  cold  water  till 
froth  appears.  Put  into  fast-boiling  salted  water  and 
boil  according  to  size — 20  minutes  about  the  average  time. 
It  must  be  thoroughly  cooked ;  when  cold  it  is  ready  for  use. 

First  Method. 

Remove  the  small  claws  and  lay  aside  for  garnish. 
Break  off  the  big  claws  and  remove  the  flesh.  Take  off 
the  apron  and  break  it  up.  Take  out  the  white  flesh 
and  throw  away  the  grey  spongy  feelers.  Take  all  soft 
flesh  from  the  shell.  Mix  soft  flesh  with  the  white  flesh 
out  of  the  claws,  add  some  melted  butter  or  salad  oil 
(1  or  2  table-spoonfuls),  breadcrumbs,  salt,  pepper, 
mustard  and  vinegar  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly.  Polish 
the  shell  well,  using  a  little  salad  oil  to  brighten;  replace 
the  mixture  in  the  shell.  Use  claws  to  garnish.  Arrange 
on  some  fresh  salad. 

Second  Method. 

Flake  claw  flesh  finely  and  lay  aside.  Prepare  the 
soft  part  and  mix  with  some  Mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing. 
Replace  in  the  shell  and  garnish  with  claw  flesh,  arranging 
it  in  lines,  alternately,  with  sieved  yolk  and  finely-chopped 
parsley,  coralline  pepper,  or  lobster  coral.  Arrange  on 
a  serviette  or  salad. 

Mayonnaise  (see  page  167). 

MAYONNAISE   OF  SALMON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Some  nice  pieces  cold  Water-cress. 

cooked  Salmon.  2  hard-boiled  Eggs. 

3  or  4  nice  Lettuces.  Mayonnaise  Sauce. 

i  Cucumber.  Few   Gherkins   and  Capers. 

2  or  3  boned  washed  Some  Aspic  JeUy. 

Anchovies. 

Wash  and  dry  the  lettuce  well.  Keep  the  best  parts 
for  garnishing;  tear  up   the  rest.       Slice  the  cucumber 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEST  —  FISH.  71 

very  finely  (if  liked,  ornament  the  edges);  cut  into  about 
eight  pieces.  Chop  some  of  the  aspic  jelly;  cut  the  rest 
into  fancy  blocks.  Chop  the  anchovies.  Place  some 
lettuce  on  a  dish,  then  some  anchovies,  then  some  lettuce. 
Place  salmon,  divided  into  nice  pieces,  on  top.  Pour 
Mayonnaise  sauce  over.  Decorate  with  capers  and 
gherkins  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Put  cucumber  round  the 
dish.       Garnish  with  aspic  jelly  and  eggs. 

Mayonnaise  {see  page  167). 

Aspic  Jelly  {see  page  221). 


POTTED    SHRIMPS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Shiimps.  Pinch  Nutmeg. 

2  ozs.  Fresh  Butter.  Salt  and  White  Pepper. 

Pinch  powdered  Mace. 

Pick  the  shrimps  and  put  them  with  the  other  ingredients 
into  a  stewpan.  Let  them  heat  gradually  in  the  butter, 
but  do  not  let  them  boil.  Turn  into  small  jars;  cover 
with  clarified  butter  to  exclude  the  air. 

Notes. — Shrimps,  after  being  cooked  in  the  butter  may 
be  pounded,  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  then  potted. 

Other  varieties  of  cold  fish  may  be  potted. 

To  i  lb.  cold  fish — 3  to  4  ozs.  butter  (clarified),  pepper, 
salt,  pinch  nutmeg. 


72  HOUSEHOLD  C00KEB7  —  MEAT. 

MEAT. 

BOILING. 

BOILED    FRESH   MEATS. 

Wipe  the  meat  and  cut  off  any  superfluous  fat;  weigh 
the  joint.  To  a  thin  piece  such  as  ribs  of  mutton,  allow 
15  minutes  to  the  lb.  and  15  minutes  over;  if  a  thick 
piece  like  a  leg  of  mutton  or  round  of  beef,  20  minutes 
to  the  lb.  and  20  minutes  over.  Pork  and  veal  require 
25  minutes  to  the  lb.  and  25  minutes  over.  If  necessary, 
tie  the  meat  in  shape.  Place  the  meat  in  boiling  water 
sufficient  to  cover,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  skim.  Let 
it  boil  for  five  minutes  to  harden  the  outside,  then  draw  to 
the  side  of  the  fire  and  allow  to  simmer  during  the  rest 
of  the  time.  Seasoning  should  be  added,  in  the  proportion 
of  1  dessert-spoonful  to  the  quart,  when  half  cooked. 
Boiled  mutton  is  served  with  white,  parsley,  onion  or  caper 
sauce;  boiled  rabbit  with  onion  sauce;  boiled  fowl  with 
egg  sauce.  A  small  fowj  or  rabbit  will  be  cooked  in 
three-quarters  of  an  hour;  large  ones  wiU  take  from  IJ 
to  2  hours,  according  to  the  age;  a  rabbit  requires  previous 
soaking  in  salted  water  for  1  hour. 

The  water  in  which  the  meat  has  been  boiled  should 
always  be  kept  and  used  for  soup. 

N.B, — Carrots  and  turnips  may  be  boiled  with  the  meat. 

The  foregoing  times  of  cooking  refer  only  to  joints  of 
4' lbs.  and  over.  A  smaller  joint  takes  a  proportionately 
longer  time. 

BOILED    SALT   MEAT. 

If  the  meat  is  very  salt,  soak  overnight  in  cold  water 
and  bring  very  slowly  to  boiling  point  in  fresh  cold  water. 


PLATE 


DIFFERENT   CUTS   of   BEEF. 


1.  Buttock  or  Rump. 

2.  Aitch  Bone. 

3.  Sirloin. 

4.  Spare  Ribs  and  Ribs. 

5  and  6.     Large   and  small   runners. 

7.  Round  (Top-side  and  Silverside). 

8.  Thick  Flank. 

9.  Thin  Flank. 

10.  Small  Round. 

11.  Hough,   or   Shin,   or  Leg    (Nap-bone). 

12.  Nine  Holes. 

13.  Brisket. 

14.  Shoulder. 

15.  Neck  and  Cheek. 

16.  Marrow  Bone. 


DIFFERENT   CUTS 
of   VEAL. 

1.  Loin. 

2.  Chump   End  of 

Loin. 

3.  Fillet. 

4.  Hind    Knuckle. 

5.  Fore   Knuckle. 

6.  Neck    (Best   end). 

7.  Shoulder. 

8.  Blade  Bone. 

9.  Breast. 

10.  Flank. 

11.  Head. 

12.  Calf's   Foot. 


DIFFERENT   CUTS 
of   PORK. 


DIFFERENT   CUTS   of   MUTTON. 


1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

Spare  Rib. 

Hand  or  Shoulder. 

Spring. 

Loin. 

Loin   Double. 

Leg. 

/^ 

1     ^    U.l^ 

ill      7-      ifiii/ 

fli(/.m 

iUniA 

1. 

Leg  or   Gigot. 

5. 

Scrag. 

2. 

Loin    Double. 

6. 

Shoulder 

3. 

Chump   End  of 

7. 

Breast. 

Loin. 

8. 

Head. 

4. 

Neck   (Best  End 

9. 

Shank. 

or    Loin). 

10. 

Trotter. 

SIDE   of   BACON. 

Collar.  5.  Gammon. 

Back.  6.  Flank. 

7.  Streaky. 

4.     Corner.  8.  Fore-end. 


SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  MEAT.  73 

Pour  off  the  water  and  pour  on  fresh  boiling  water, 
SMmnpr  very  slowly  till  tender,  allowing  30  to  35  minutes 
to  every  lb.  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  meat.  Skim 
frequently  when  simmering.  When  tender,  serve  on  a 
plate  with  cooked  carrot  and  turnip  and  dumplings  {see 
suet  pastry,  page  301),  and  greens  (see  cabbage,  page  143). 

Boiled  Salt  Pork  when  ready  must  have  the  skin 
removed  and  the  top  covered  with  bread  raspings  and 
served  with  peas  pudding  (see  page  155). 

Boiled  Ham  is  cooked  in  the  same  way.  If  ham  is 
to  be  eaten  cold,  allow  it  to  remain  in  the  water  in  which 
it  has  been  cooked  until  it  is  col&;  this  makes  the  ham 
more  mellow  and  juicy.  When  taken  out  of  the  water 
remove  the  skin  and  cover  with  bread  raspings,  or  it  can 
be  glazed.   / 

A  Tongue  is  boiled  in  the  fame  way;  a  medium-sized 
tongue  will  take  3  hours  to  cook  gently. 

N.B. — If  any  of  the  above  are  to  be  served  cold  it  is 
better  to  allow  them  to  cool  in  the  water  in  which  they 
are  cooked. 

POTTED    HEAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Ox  Head.  4  sprigs  Parsley. 

100  Peppercorns.  4  Bay  Leaves. 

4  blades  Mace.  Salt. 

25  Allspice  Beriies.  2  small  Onions. 

4  sprigs  Thyme  and  8  Cloves. 
Marjoram. 

Clean  the  head  thoroughly,  put  it  in  a  large  pot,  just 
cover  with  clean  cold  water,  and  simmer  5  to  6  hours, 
then  take  out  the  head  and  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
put  the  bones  back  in  the  pot  with  the  liquor  and  all 
the  other  ingredients;  simmer  for  1  hour  longer,  then  take 
off  the  lid  and  boil  quickly  for  half  an  hour.  Cut  the 
meat  into  small  squares,  strain  the  liquor  over  the  meat. 


74  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

Wet  with  oold  water  as  many  moulds  or  basins  as  you 
require,  fill  them  with  the  meat  and  liquor,  let  it  stand 
for  a  night  to  cool  and  get  firm,  then  turn  out.  Garnish 
with  parsley.      A  good-sized  head  will  make  16  lbs. 

N.B. — ^Half  the  above  quantities  can  be  used. 
POTTED   HOUGH. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Hough.  Or  Nap  Bone. 

6  pints  cold  Water.  Salt. 

2  Pig's  Feet  (unsalted). 

Break  up  the  feet,  (Jleanse  and  scrape,  put  on  in  cold 
water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and  throw  away  the  water. 
Wash  the  feet  and  put  on  again,  with  measured  water  and 
the  hough,  boil  gently  4  hours,  remove  the  meat  from  the 
bonesj  cut  up  finely,  place  back  in  pan  with  liquor  and 
seasonings,  boil,  pour  into  wetted  moulds. 

HAGGIS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

A  Sheep 's  Bag  and  Pluck.  4  medium-sized  Onions 

i  lb.  pin-head  Oatmeal.  (blanched). 

i  lb.  Mince  Suet.  J  teaspoonful  Powdered 

2    tablespoonful    Salt.  Herbs. 

1  teaspoonful  Black  Pepper. 

Wash  the  bag  in  cold  water,  scrape  and  clean  it  well, 
let  it  lie  all  night  with  a  little  salt.  Wash  the  pluck, 
put  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  boil  for  two  hours 
with  wind  pipe  hanging  out.  When  cold,  cut  off  the 
wind-pipe,  grate  the  liver,  mince  the  heart,  lights,  suet 
and  onions,  add  the  oatmeal  (which  should  first  be  toasted, 
not  coloured),  salt,  pepper  and  herbs,  and  1  pint  liquid 
in  which  the  pluck  was  boiled.  Mix  well,  fill  the  bag 
rather  more  than  half  full  of  the  mixture,  then  sew  up, 
place  in  boiling  water,  boil  for  3  hours,  pricking 
occasionally  to  keep  from  bursting. 


MOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT.  75 

N.B. — The  bag  may  also  be  prepared  in  the  following 
way: — Get  the  stomach-bag  cleaned  by  the  butcher;  wash 
it  thoroughly,  and  put  it  on  in  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling 
poipt,  which  will  cause  the  bag  to  contract.  Take  it  out 
of  the  pot  immediately,  wash  and  scrape  it  well,  and  lay 
in  salt  and  water  until  needed.  Take  the  stomaeh-bag, 
keep  the  fat  or  smooth  side  inside,  and  flU  it,  but  not 
quite  full ;  sew  the  opening,  and  put  in  boiling  water  to 
boil  gently  for  3  hours. 

SHEEP'S    HEAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Turnip  and  2  CarrotB.  1  Sheep's  Head  and  Trotters. 

Prepare  the  head  and  trotters  as  for  sheep's  head  broth. 
Cover  with  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point,  skim 
well,  and  boil  gently  till  tender  4  to  5  hours.  Add  the 
vegetables,  out  in  quarters,  about  1  hour  before  «the  head 
is  ready.  Dish  the  head  and  trotters  neatly,  cover  with 
parsley  sauoe,  serve  the  cut  vegetables  round. 

ROASTING. 

ROAST   BEEF. 

Weigh  and  wipe  the  meat,  and  if  necessary,  tie  it  up, 
but  do  not  skewer  it.  Make  some  dripping  hot  in  a 
tin,  and  place  a  trivet  in  it.  Put  in  the  meat.  Baste 
the  cut  sides  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  at  first  to  form  a 
casing  round  the  meat,  then  reduce  the  heat.  Allow  15 
minutes  to  the  lb.  and  15  minutes  over.  Baste  very 
frequently.       Then  place  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — If  stuffed,  allow  25  minutes  to  each  lb.  Less 
than  3  lbs.  in  weight  allow  longer  time  in  proportion. 

To  make  the  Gravy. — Pour  the  fat  from  the  dripping- 
tin,  leaving  the  brown  sediment,  add  the  salt,  stir  and 


76  SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

brown,  then  pour  in  about  J  pint  boiling  water  or  stock; 
stir  it  round  the  tin  till  all  the  sediment  is  dissolved  ;- 
bring  to  the  boiling  point;  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Skim 
off  all  the  fat  from  the  top;  pour  a  little  gravy  round 
the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  hot  sauce-boat. 

All  roasts  are  best  cooked  before  a  clear  fire. 

N.B. — Roast  Beef. — Serve  also  with  Yorkshire  pudding 
and  baked  potatoes.  ' 

ROAST   MUTTON  OR   LAMB    (FROZEN), 

Keep  the  joint  in  the  kitchen  until  it  is  quite  thawed. 
Wipe  it  carefully.  Melt  1  or  2  ozs.  dripping  in  a  roasting 
tin  and  place  the  meat  in.  Allow  about  20  minutes 
to  each  lb.  and  20  minutes  over,  depending  upon  the 
thickness  of  the  meat.  Baste  frequently.'  When  cooked, 
remove  the  meat  on  to  a  hot  ashet. 

To  maike  the  Gravy. — Pour  off  the  liquid  fat,  leaving 
the  sediment  behind.  Add  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  flour 
and  stir  till  brown,  pour  in  J  pint  boiling  water.  Stir 
it  about  the  tin  to  collect  and  dissolve  the  sediment. 
Boil  well  and  serve.  If  liked,  serve  mint  sauce  with 
lamb,  and  onion  sauce  and  red  currant  jelly  with  mutton. 

POT   ROAST. 

Melt  the  fat  in  a  strong  iron  pan,  and  when  smoking 
hot,  brown  the  meat  quickly  all  round.  Then  put  the 
pan  lid  on,  and  allow  it  to  cook  exactly  the  same  way 
as  cooking  in  the  oven  or  in  front  of  the  fire.  Keep 
turning  the  meat  frequently,  and  baste  also.  The  length 
of  time  may  be  longer  than  if  done  in  the  oven.  The 
gravy  is  made  similarly  to  that  for  roast  beef. 

« 
ROAST   PORK. 

Wipe  and  see  that  the  pork  is  jointed;  score  or  prick 
the  fat.      Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  roast,  basting  frequently; 


SOUSESOLD  COOKERY —  MEAT.  77 

allow  25  minutes  to  the  lb.  and  25  minutes  over.  Serve 
with  thickened  gravy,  made  as  follows  : — Pour  off  the  fat; 
put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  the  salt.  Stir  it  well 
about  the  dripping-tin;  gradually  pour  over  J  pint  boiling 
water.       Stir  till  it  boils. 

Pork  may  also  be  stuffed  with  sage  and  onions. 
SAGE    AND    ONION    STUFFING. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

3  or  4  large  Onions.  1  teaspoonful  Sage. 

Parboil  the  onions;  chop  and  add  sage  and  seasoning; 
add  a  few  breadcrumbs,  and  stuff  the  meat  with  this;  or 
cook  the  onions  thoroughly  and  serve  the  stuffing  separately. 

Apple  sauce  should  also  accompany  roast  ^ork. 

STEWING. 
IRISH   STEW. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Neck  of  Mutton  or  1  teaoupful  of  Water. 

scraps  of  any  Meat.  2  large  Onions. 

8  or  10  large  Potatoes.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Cut  the  meat  up  neatly,  make  the  pan  hot,  seal 
the  meat  in  it.  If  the  meat  is  very  lean  a  little 
dripping  may  be  required  for  browning  it.  Skin  the 
onions  and  cut  them  into  thin  rings.  Wash,  peel,  and 
slice  the  potatoes  thickly;  put  alternate  layers  of  meat, 
potatoes,  onions  and  a  little  seasoning  in  the  pan,  add 
the  water,  rfbver  closely,  stew  gently  2  hours.  Stir  fre- 
quently, and  if  necessary,  add  more  water  and  seasoning. 
Serve  in  a  pile  in  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — This  and  other  stews  may  be  cooked  in  a  jar  or 
basin,  which  must  be  closely  covered  and  set  in  a  pan  with  ■ 
enough  boiling  water  to  come  half  way  up;  allow  to  cook 
3  to  4  hours.    , 


78  EOUSEEOLD  COOKBBT —  MEAT. 

DUTCH   STEW. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Shouldei  Mutton.      ..        J  Onion. 

i  Cabbage.  '"        J  oiz.  Dripping. 

3  Potatoes.  Seasoning. 

Melt  fat  and  fry  chopped  onion  a  little,  add  meat  and 
cook  20  minutes.  Add  l  cabbage  (cut  into  4),  also  sliced 
potatoes  all  dripping  wet.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  cook  slowly  till  all  is  tender. 


WHITE    STEW   OF   RABBIT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Babbit.  A  little  Lemon  Bind. 

J  pint  Stock  or  Water.  2  ozs.  Flour  (goocL  measure). 

1  Onion.  i  pint  Mjlk. 

1  oz.  Dripping.  Seasoning. 

Clean  the  rabbit,  removing  eyes,  liver,  kidneys,  heart 
and  lungs.  Split  the  head  and  soak  until  free  from 
blood,  add  it  and  the  flaps  to  the  stew  (do  not  serve  but 
place  in  the  stock  pot).  Wash  rabbit  and  soak  in  warm 
or  salted  water  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  wash  and  cut 
into  neat  joints. 

Bring  water  or  stock  to  the  boiling  point,  add  onion 
and  flavouring.  Put  in  rabbit  and  pinch  salt;  boil  2 
minutes,  then  simmer  gently  li  hours.  Lift  out  joints 
and  let  stock  settle.  Then  pour  off  clear  part  (the  brown 
part  may  be  put  in  a  brown  stew).  Take  J  pint  of  the 
clear  liquid,  add  it  to  the  half  pint  milk;  melt  the  butter 
in  a  pan;  add  flour,  gradually  the  liquid,  stir  till  boiling, 
cook  thoroughly,  add  seasoning  and  joints  of  rabbit. 
When  hot,  serve,  pouring  white  sauce  over.  Garnish 
with  curled  or  fried  bacon,  or  if  liked,  with  fried  bread. 

N.B. — If  rabbit  be  very  dark  it  may  be  blanched  before 
commeneiag  to  cook. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT.  79 

BROWN   MEAT   STEW. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Stewing  Beef.  4  oz.  Flour. 

1  Onion.  J  pint  Water. 

1  Carrot.  Seasoning, 

i  Turnip.  1  oz.  Dripping. 

Melt  the  dripping  and  when  quite  hot  add  sliced  onion, 
put  on  pan  lid  and  leave  to  brown  over  a  gentle  heat. 
Prepare  meat  by  washing  and  drying,  cut  into  3  inch 
squares,  put .  into  pan  with  onions,  stir  round,  replace 
lid  and  leave  to  cook  slowly  for  |-1  hour  depending  on 
quality  of  meat.  Stir  occasionally.  Blend  the  flour 
with  the  water,  add  to  pan  and  stir  till  boiling,  add 
prepared  carrot  and  turnip  and  seasoning  and  continue 
cooking  gently  for  same  time  again. 

Serve  meat  and  vegetables  and  pour  over  gravy. 

EXETER   STEW. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Lean  Beef.  1  table-spoonful  Vinegar. 

1  Onion.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  table-spoonful  Flour.  1  pint  cold  Water. 

1  oz.  Dripping.  ' 

Make  the  dripping  very  hot  in  a  pan;   peel  and  slice 

the  onion,  brown  it  in  the  dripping;  add  the  flour  and 

brown  that  also.       Add  the  water,  vinegar,  and  a  little 

salt    and    pepper;    then    the    meat,    cut    in    neat    pieces. 

Sin&ner  for  two  hours.      Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before 

serving  add  savoury  balls,  and  continue  cooking.       Serve 

neatly. 

SAVOURY   BALLS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  ozs.  Flour.  i  Onion  (finely  chopped). 

1  oz.  ^uet  (finely  chopped).  i  teaspoonful  chopped 

i  teaspoonful  Baking   ■  Parsley. 

Powder.  Salt  and  Pepper. 
Pinch  Herbs. 

Mix  all  these  well  together,  make  into  a  light  dough 

with   cold  water,   divide   into   balls,  roll   each    lightly  in 


80  SOUSEBOLD  COOKEST —  MEAT. 

flour,  and  drop  them  into  the  stew.  They  will  take  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  to  cook.  Remove  the  halls;  season 
the  stew  if  necessary.  Arrange  the  balls  round  the  meat, 
or  serve  separately,  if  liked. 

STEWED   HOUGH   AND   VEGETABLES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  to  2  lbs.  Hough.  li  pints  Liquid. 

1  or  2  Carrots.  2  oza.  Flour. 

1  or  2  Turnips.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

3  small  Onions.  1  oz.  Dripping. 

Place  dripping  in  a  stewpan  to  get  hot,  put  the  meat 
in,  and  fry,  round  and  round,  for  nearly  10  minutes,  till 
nicely  browned  aU  over.  Place  in  the  onions,  cut  in 
rings;  fry  them  a  golden  brown.  Add  seasoning  and 
water,  bring  to  boil,  simtmer  gently.  Add  the  vegetables, 
cut  in  convenient-sized  pieces;  continue  cooking  for  2  to 
3  hours.  Lift  out  meat  and  vegetables  on  to  a  hot  meat 
dish ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  blended  flour,  stir  till  boiling, 
and  pour  over  the  meat. 

N.B. — Large  pieces  of  mutton,  lamb,  and  veal  may  be 
treated  similarly,  and  seasonable  vegetables  used.  If 
Spring  vegetables,  these  need  only  be  put  in  1  hour  before 
the  end. 

STEWED    LIVER   AND   BACON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Liver.  2  Onions. 

6  ozs.  Bacon.  Seasoning. 

1  oz.  Mour.  1  teaspoonful  dried  Sage 

4  pint  Stock.  (if  liked). 

Cut  liver  in  pieces,  wash  and  dry.  Fry  the  bacon  in 
the  stewpan;  remove,  and  fry  the  onion,  sliced;  remove 
it,  and  fry  the  flour  till  golden  brown.  Add  the  stock, 
stir  till  boiling,  then  replace  bacon,  liver,  and  onion,  and 
season.      Simmer  gently  for  1  hour.       Serve. 


sou  BEHOLD  COOKEEY —  MEAT.  81 

STEWED   TRIPE   AND    ONIONS. 

Wash  the  tripe  well  in  warm  water;  put  in  a  pan 
with  plenty  of  cold  water;  let  it  get  very  hot,  but  do  not 
boil;  then  pour  away  the  water,  and  lay  the  tripe  on  a 
board  and  scrape  till  quite  clean;  put  on  again  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water,  and  allow  to  simmer  6  to  9  hours.  When 
quite  tender  pour  off  the  liquid,  cut  the  tripe  into  neat 
pieces,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  milk  and 
4  blanched  onions  sliced.  Let  all  simmer  1  hour.  Blend 
1  tablfe-spoonful  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  pour  on  to 
it  the  milk  from  the  tripe,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
put  back  in  pan,  and  stir  till  it  boils  well.  Dish  neatly, 
and  garnish  with  toasted  bread. 

N.B. — The  liquor  from  the  tripe,  if  boiled  1  hour  with 
i  lb.  rice,  a  carrot,  turnip,  and  onion,  cut  up  in  small 
pieces,  makes  excellent  soup. 

STEWED  COW  HEEL  and  COW  HEEL  JELLY. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Nearly  1  pint  Milk. 

1  table-spoonful  chopped  1  table-spoonful  Flour. 

Parsley.  2  Onions. 

1  Cow-heel  or  Ox  Foot.  Pepper  and  Salt. 

If  the  hoof  has  not  been  removed  put  the  foot  in  boiling 

water,  and  let  it  soak  till  the  hoof  will  come  off    (the 

boiling   water   must   be  frequently  renewed);   then    chop 

the  foot  in  four  pieces,  wash,  blanch,  scrape,  put  it  into 

a  pot  with  just  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  simmer 

gently  for  5   or   6  hours.       Take   out  the  foot,   cut  off 

all  the  meat,  put  the  meat  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  small 

bit  of  onion,  and  just  milk  enough  to  cover  it;  simmer 

for  1  hour.       Blend  smoothly  a  table-spoonful  of  flour 

with  a  little  cold  water  or  milk,  stir  into  the  stew,  stir 

till  it  boils,  boil  for  5  minutes,  then  add  the  butter  and 

parsley;  serve  neatly,  with  the  sauce  over.      The  liquor 

in  which  the  foot  was  boiled  will  be  a  strong  jelly  when 


82  S0U8EE0LD  COOKERY —  MEAT. 

cold.  If  it  has  been  boiled  without  onions  it  may  be 
sweetened  to  taste,  and  flavoured  with  lemon  it  is  excellent 
for  invalids;  or  it  can  be  used  for  soup  or  broth,  if 
savoury. 

STEWED    SAUSAGES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Beef  Sausages.  1  slice  Toast. 

i  pint  Brown  Sauce.  Seasoning. 

Prick  and  place  the  sausages  in  the  stewpan  with  the 
sauce.  Stew  gently  half-an-hour.  Then  remove  the 
sausages.      Serve  on  the  toast  and  pour  the  sauce  over. 

N.B. — If  liked,  apple  sauce  may  be  served  also  if  pork 
sausages  are  used.  If  wanted  a  good  brown,  the  sausages 
are  improved  by  being  fried  before  they  are  placed  in 
the  sauce.  ^ 

MINCED   COLLOPS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Minoe.  J  pint  Water. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  Flour.        Seasoning. 
1  Onion   (chopped). 

Heat  the  pan  and  rub  a  little  fat  over  bottom.  Place 
in  mince  and  onion  and  stir  about  till  each  particle  is 
separate.      Add  flour  and  water  blended.      Simmer  J  hour. 

1  tablespoonful  mushroom  ketchup  may  be  added  if 
liked. 

Season  and  serve  with  toast  or  hard-boiled  egg. 

FRYING. 
LIVER   AND   BACON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  liver.  J  teaspoonful  Salt. 

3  to  4  ozs.  Pat  Bacon.  Pinch  Pepper. 

i  table-spoonful  Flour.  J  pint  boiling  Water. 

Slice  the  bacon  thinly.  Cut  liver  into  slices  rather 
less  than  half-inch  thick,  and  wash  thoroughly  and  dry. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT.  83 

Pry  the  bacon,  leaving  it  rather  underdone,  and  keep  it 
in  a  warm  oven  to  finish  cooking.  Dip  liver  in  seasoned 
flonr  and  fry  it  in  fat  drawn  from  the  bacon.  When 
quite  ready,  keep  hot  while  making  gravy.  Brown  the 
remainder  of  the  flour,  gradually  add  water,  and  cook  well. 

For  pinner,  serve  with  this  thickened  gravy;  but  for 
breakfast,  only  the  liquid  fat  left  in  pan  is  poured  round. 

FRIED    STEAK   AND   ONIONS, 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Steak.  1  gill  boiling  Water. 

2  Onions  (Spanish  Salt, 

preferred). 

Wipe  the  steak  and  cut  the  onions  thinly  in  rings. 
Heat  a  little  dripping,  and  fry  the  onions  till  cooked  and 
a  light  brown  colour;  squeeze  the  fat  from  them,  and 
place  them  between  two  plates  to  keep  hot.  Then  reheat 
the  fat,  adding  a  little  more,  if  necessary,  and  place  in 
the  steak.  Fry  quickly  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other, 
and  also  the  edges;  then  keep  turning  every  2  minutes, 
allowing  for  a  steak  one  inch  thick  from  10-12  minutes 
(depends  on  whether  liked  under-done  or  not).  Have 
dish  ready,  and  place  steak  in  the  middle  with  the  onions 
round  about. 

Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  pan,  add  the  salt  to  the 
sediment,  stir  well,  then  add  a  little  boiling  water,  and 
stir  to  dissolve  the  sediment  in  the  pan.  Boil  well  and 
pour  round  the, steak. 

N.B. — ^Some  people  like  the  gravy  slightly  thickened 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  flonr. 


84  HOUSESOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

GRILLING. 
GRILLED   CHOP. 

INGREDIENTS.  , 
1  Loin  or  Neeb  Chop,  1  to  IJ  inches  thick. 
Wipe  and  trim  off  unnecessary  fat.  If  loin  chop, 
skewer  into  shape.  Heat  gridiron  and  rub  over  with 
suet.  Place  chop  on  and  brown  quickly,  first  on, one  side 
and  then  on  the  other.  Lower  the  heat,  and  continue 
turning  meat  every  2  minutes  until  done,  about  12  minutes. 
Pour  over  any  juice  that  has  come  from  the  meat.  Place 
a  little  butter  on,  season,  and  serve  immediately  with 
bread  sauce. 

Steak  is  done  similarly,  but  will  take  15  minutes. 
Mutton  and  steak  may  be  served  underdone,  if  liked. 

STEAMING. 
STEAMED  STEAK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Stewing  Steak.  2  small  Onions. 

1  dessert-spoonful  Seasoned       1  Carrot. 

Mour.  J  Turnip. 

Liquid  to  cover  (about 

i  pint). 

Wipe  and  cut  the  meat  into  neat-sized  pieces,  dip  in 
seasoned  flour,  roll  up,  and  place  on  end  in  basin,  with 
layers  of  sliced  vegetables.  Pour  in  the  liquid,  place 
the  basin  in  the  steamer;  cover  with  greased  paper  or  lid. 
Steam  steadily  for  2  to  3  hours,  according  to  kind  of 
meat  used.  Serve  in  the  basin,  Tjith  a  folded  napkin 
round. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOEEBY  —  MEAT.  85 

REHEATED   MEAT  DISHES. 
HASH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Ooia  Meat.  J  oz.  Fat  (Dripping), 

i  pint  Brown  Gravy.  i  oz.  Brown  Flour. 

Remove  most  of  the  fat  from  the  meat  and  cut  into 
thin  slices.  Place  meat  in  cool,  seasoned  gravy;  let  it 
stand  for  half  an  hour;  then  heat  gradually  through. 
Simmer  very  gently  if  meat  is  rather  underdone.  If 
meat  was  thoroughly  cooked  the  first  time  it  only  requires 
to  be  made  hot.  After  meat  has  been  heated,  or,  if 
necessary,  cooked,  add,  if  liked,  1  table-spoonful  of  ketchup. 
Thicken  with  blended  flour.  Serve  very  hot  with  neatly- 
cut  toasted  bread. 

N.B. — Sliced  vegetables  may  be  simmered  till  tender  in 
the  grravy  before  the  meat  is  added,  and  served  with  it. 

SHEPHE*RD'S    PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  lb.  Cold  Meat.  About  4  table-spoonfuls 

i  Boiled  Onion.  Brown  Sauce. 

Salt  and  Pepper.  1  lb.  Masted  Potatoes. 

Remove  the  excess  fat  and  all  gristle  from  the  meat, 
chop  coarsely,  and  place  in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  pie-dish. 
Add  chopped  onion  and  seasoning,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  sa,uce,  and  place  potatoes  on  top.  Smooth  with  a 
knife  and  mark  round  with  a  fork.  Place  in  a  fairly- 
quick  oven  until  hot  throughout,  which  will  take  about 
20  to  30  minutes.  Brown  on  top.  Small  pieces  of 
dripping  may  be  added  to  help  the  browning. 

MINCE    OF   COLD   MEAT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Cold  Meat  (minced).        i  pint  Brown  Sauce. 
Little  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Heat  the  sauce,  add  the  meat,  and,  if  necessary,  simmer 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.     Season  and  serve.      Garnish 


86  HOUSEEOLD  COOKBBY —  MEAT. 

with  toasted  bread  or  hard-boiled  egg  or  with  a  wall  of 
potato  round,  using  a  little  more  than  J  lb.  potatoes  to 
i  lb.  minee. 

COLD   MEAT   MOULD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Oooked  Meat.  i  teaspoonful  Curry  Powder. 

2  ozs.  Suet.  A  parboiled  Onion  (if  liked). 

3  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  A  little  Stock  or  Gravy. 

1  Egg.  Bread  Raspings. 
A  little  Nutmeg.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Grease  a  plain  round  mould  or  basin  well.      Line  with 

bread  raspings.       Chop  the  meat,   suet,   onion,  and  mix 

with  the  breadcrumbs,  nutmeg,  and  seasoning.      Beat  the 

egg  and  add  to  th«  mixture,  along  with  sufficient  stock  or 

gravy  to  moisten.       Turn  into  prepared  basin,   covered 

with  greased  paper,  and  steam  for  1  hour.       Turn  out. 

Serve   with   brown   or   tomato    sauce,    and   garnish   with 

parsley. 

For  Brown  Sauce  {see  page  238). 

STUFFED    POTATOES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  large  Potatoes.  2  ozs.  Cooked  Meat. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Bread-  A  little  Gravy, 
crumbs.  Dripping. 

Seasoning. 

Peel  the  potatoes;  cut  one  end  to  make  them  stand 
straight.       Cut  a  piece  off  the  other  end  to  form  a  lid. 

Hollow  out  the  centre  of  each  potato  and  fill  it  up 
loosely  with  breadcrumbs,  chopped  meat,  seasoning,  and 
g^avy  mixed;  then  put  on  top.  Heat  some  dripping  in 
a  tin,  and  place  in  the  stuffed  potatoes.  Baste  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  about  1  hour,  or  till  potatoes  are  quite 
oooked  through.  Drain  from  the  fat  and  serve  very  hot. 
Veal  forcemeat  or  sausage  meat  may  be  used  to  stuff. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT.  87 

STUFFED    ONIONS. 

Onions  may  be  parcooked  till  centres  can  be  removed. 
then  stuffed  in  same  way  as  potatoes,  and  cooked  as  above. 

MEAT   CAKES. 

Equal  quantities  of  cold  meat,  finely  minced,  and  mashed 
potatoes,  mix  well  together  with  a  small  piece  of  butter 
or  dripping,  and  seasoning.  Form  into  small  flat  cakes, 
rub  each  with  flour,  brush  over  with  milk,  and  toss  in 
flour  again,  fry  in  hot  fat;  or  they  may  be  brushed  with 
egg,  tossed  in  breadcrumbs  and  fried.  Drain  and  serve 
at  once.       Half  an  egg  may  be  used  for  brushing  over. 


TOAD-IN-HOLE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  scraps  Cold  Meat  or        J  pint  Pancake  Batter 

Sausages.  (see  page  182). 

Salt  and  Pepper. 

Grease  a  pie-dish  and  put  the  meat  at  the  bottom, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  the  batter  over  and 
bake  for  1  hour  in  a  sharp  oven.       Serve  at  once. 


MEAT   PASTRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Cold  Meat.  1  gill  Stock  or  Gravy. 

1  teaspoonful  Flour.  i  lb.   Short  Pastry   (see 
1  teaspoonful  Ketchup.  page  301). 

Pepper  and  Salt. 

Mince  the  meat  finely;  mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  the 
stock  or  gravy,  add  the  seasonings,  and  mix  all  well 
together. 

Divide  the  pastry  in  two,  roll  one  piece  out  very  thinly, 
and  line  a  greased  flat  dish  with  it,  roll  the  other  piece 


88  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

pastry  for  a  cover.  Put  the  meat  in  the  centre  of  the 
lined  dish,  wet  the  edges  of  the  pastry,  lay  on  the  cover, 
press  edges  well  together,  trim  neatly,  roll  out  trimmings 
and  cut  ornaments  from  them  for  the  top,  ornament 
neatly,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  three-quarters  of 
an  hour. 

SHEEP'S   HEAD    PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Meat  from  a  boiled  Sheep 's  i  pint  Stock  from  the  boiling. 

Head  (skinned).  J  lb.  Bacon  (cooked). 

1  teaspoonful  finely-chopped  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Pardey.  2  hard-boiled  Eggs, 

i  teaspoonful  mixed  Herbs.  i  lb.  Short  Onist  (plain). 

Cut  the  meat  off  the  bones,  skin  the  tongue,  put  a  layer 
of  meat  in  a  pie-dish,  sprinkle  with  the  chopped  parsley 
and  herbs,  then  a  layer  of  eggs,  sliced,  and  bacon  cut  in 
neat  slices,  and  so  on  till  all  is  \ised.  Pour  in  aboux 
J  pint  of  the  stock,  allow  to  get  cold,  then  cover  with 
pastry,  and  bake  for  1  hour  in  a  brisk  oven. 


PASTRY   DISHES. 
BOILED   MEAT   PUDDING. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Skirt  of  Beef  or  Steak.      J  teaspoonful  Pepper. 

J  gill  cold  Water.  1  teaspoonful  Salt. 

1  table-spoonful  Flour.  6  ozs.  Suet  Pastry  (see  p.  301). 

Cut  the  meat  into  thin  slices,  dip  each  slice  in  the  flour 
and  seasoning,  which  should  all  be  mixed  together. 

Set  aside  one-third  of  the  pastry  for  the  top.  Grease 
a  pudding  basin  and  line  with  the  pastry,  laying  it  up 
the  sides  neatly;  fill  it  with  the  meat,  pour  in  the  water, 
roll  out  the  piece  set  aside  to  fit  the  top  of  the  basin. 


PLATE    2. 

1. 

Nap  Bone. 

2. 

Hough  or  Shin. 

3. 

Rump. 

4. 

Popeseye. 

5. 

Flank,  Thick. 

6. 

Thin  Flank. 

7. 

Brisket. 

8. 

Shin. 

9. 

Nap. 

10. 

Fillet  or  Undercut. 

11. 

English  Cut  Roast  or  Sirioin, 

12. 

Rib  Roast  or  Popeseye. 

13. 

Shoulder. 

14. 

Runner. 

15. 

Sticking  Piece. 

16. 

Neck. 

17. 

Heart. 

18. 

Windpipe. 

19. 

Kidneys. 

20. 

Gullet. 

PLATE    2, 


DIAGRAM  OF  OX. 


^\B.t,  Mac  NEIL 


EOUSESOLD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT.  89 

Wet  the  edge  of  the  pastry,  lay  on  the  top,  press  the 
edges  of  the  pastry  together.  Dip  a  pudding  cloth  in 
boiling  water,  sprinkle  thickly  with  flour,  cover  the  pudding 
with  it,  tie  securely  and  fasten  the  comers  over  the  top 
of  the  handle.  Put  the  pudding  in  boiling  water  deep 
enough  to  cover  it,  boil  for  3  to  4  hours,  then  take  off  the 
doth,  let  it  stand  a  minute  or  two,  turn  out  on  a  hot 
dish.  Cut  out  a  little  round  from  the  top.  Fill  up 
with  hot  gravy  or  water.      Replace  the  top  and  serve. 

2V.B. — The  above  may  be  steamed  instead  of  boiled,  but 
requires  longer  time  to  cook. 


SEA    PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Lean  Beef  or  Scraps.        !■  dessert-spoonful  Flour. 
1  Carrot.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  small  Tumip.  J  lb.  Suet  Pastry  {see 

1  small  Onion.  po^e  301). 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  and  dip  in  seasoned  flour; 
scrape  the  carrot  and  slice  it;  peel  the  tumip  rather 
thickly  and  cut  into  thick  slices.  Put  the  meat  and 
vegetables  into  a  medium-sized  pan,  and  add  seasoning 
and  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Place  it  on  the  fire 
and  allow  to  come  to  boiling  point;  simmer  gently  and 
steadily  for  2  houxs.  Make  pastry  in  usual  way,  roll  it 
out  a  size  less  than  the  top  of  the  saucepan.  Place 
the  crust  on  the  top  of  the  meat.  Cook  steadily  for 
another  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  giving  in  all  two  hours 
and  three-quarters.  Now  and  then,  when  cooking,  loosen 
the  crust  from  the  sides  of  the  pan  with  a  knife.  For 
serving,  divide  the  crust  across  in  four  or  eight  pieces. 
Place  the  meat  and  vegetables  on  an  ashet  and  lay  the 
crust  neatly  on  top. 

N.B. — Sea  pie  may  be  steamed  in  a  basin. 


90  SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

CORNISH   PASTIES. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 
i  lb.  Short  Pastry.  2  Potatoes  (raw)  sliced  finely, 

i  lb.  good  fresh  Meat  sliced       Seasoning. 

thinly.  Egg  for  brushing. 

Roll  out  pastry  thinly,  cut  in  rounds,  place  on  mixture, 
wet  round  and  enclose,  pinch  edges,  prick,  glaze.  Bake 
from  I  to  1  hour.       Serve  hot  or  cold. 

MEAT   PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Pie  Steak.  Bough  PuEE  or  Flaky  Pastry 

1  oz.  Seasoned  Flour.  to  cover   (i  lb.). 

A  little  "Water. 

Cut   the   meat   into    neat    strips,    removing   superfluous 

fat.       Dip   the   meat   in   seasoned   flour,  roll   up   with   a 

piece  of  fat  in  centre  of  each  strip,  and  stand  on  end  in 

a  pie-dish.      Half  fill  with  water.       Wet  the  edges,  and 

line  with  strips  of  pastry.       Wet  the  lined  edge,  cover 

with  crust,  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  brush  over  with 

beaten  egg,  ornament  with  leaves,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 

first  half  hour,  then  lower  the  heat,  and^  bake  for  about 

another  hour  to  cooL  meat.      1  lb.  meat  and  i  lb.  pastry 

for  a  No.  6  pie-dish. 

SAUSAGE    ROLLS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  lb.  Sausages.  1  Egg  or  a  little  Milk, 

i  lb.  Bough  Puff  Pastry.     '       Water. 

Boil  the  sausages  two  minutes;  let  them  cool,  and  take 
off  the  skin ;  cut  each  sausage  in  half  or  skin  the  sausages 
without  parboiling. 

Roll  the  pastry  out  thinly,  and  cut  into  pieces  about 
5  inches  square.  Put  half  a  sausage  on  each  piece  of 
paste,  wet  the  edges  and  fold  the  paste  over,  bringing 
the  joins  to  the  top;  place  on  a  baking  tin,  flake  edges, 
brush  with  egg  or  milk,  and  mark  with  a  knife.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  about  half  an  hour.       Serve  hot  or  cold. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  UEAT.  91 

HOT   POT. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

IJ  lbs.  Mutton  (neck  of  Flour. 

mutton).  Cold  Water 

2  lbs.  Potatoes.  Salt  and  Pepper. 
1  Onion. 

Cut  th«  meat  into  chops,  trimming  off  some  of  the  fat. 
Dip  in  flonr,  and  lay  on  the  bottom  of  pie-dish.  Sprinkle 
chopped  onion  over,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
cover  with  cold  water,  allow  to  cook  in  the  oven  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Peel  the  potatoes  and  place  in 
slices  on  top  of  the  meat.  Replace  in  the  oven  and 
bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  meat  and 
potatoes  are  ready;  baste  very  frequently. 

POOR   MAN'S   GOOSE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

A  Sheep's  or  Pig's  Ldver.  1  teaspoonful  powdered 

1  table-spoonful  Flour.  Sage  Leaves. 

i  teaspoonful  Salt.  1  lb.  Potatoes. 

J  teaspoonful  Pepper.  1  pint  cold  Water. 

Wash  and  slice  the  liver.  Mix  together  the  flour,  salt 
and  pepper;  dip  each  slice  in  the  seasoning,  put  a  layer 
of  seasoned  liver  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie-dish.  Have 
an  onion  parboiled,  chop  it  finely  and  mix  with  the 
powdered  sage  leaves  and  sprinkle  a  little  over  the  liver; 
put  in  another  layer,  then  more  onion  and  sage,  and  so  on 
until  the  liver  is  all  in  the  dish.  Parboil  1  lb.  of  potatoes, 
peel  them  and  cut  in  slices,  season  them,  pour  the  water 
over  the  liver  and  cover  all  with  the  sliced  potatoes  and 
bake  for  1  hour. 

ROAST   SADDLE    OF   MUTTON. 

Wipe  meat  carefully.  Place  into  hot  oven  for  first 
5  minutes,  then  roast  more  gently,  allowing  15  minutes 
per  pound,  plus  15  minutes;  baste  frequently.       Serve  on 


92  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAf. 

a,  hot  dish  with  some  gravy  round,  and  hand  red  currant 
jelly. 

ROAST  STUFFED   SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton.  3  ozs.  Forcemeat 

2  ozs.  Dripping.  (see  page  252). 

Bone  the  mutton,  brush  the  cavity  with  a  little  egg, 
prepare  the  forcemeat  and  place  in  the  space  left.  Bind 
up  tightly  in  a  neat  roll.  Fasten  securely,  with  a  string. 
Heat  the  dripping  in  a  tin  and  place  the  mutton  on  a 
trivet  in  it.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  allowing  20  to  25 
minutes  to  the  pound  and  the  same  time  over.  Stew  the 
bones  with  the  water  for  stock;  take  |  pint,  thicken  with 
IJ  teaspoonfuls  flour,  adding  seasoning,  bring  to  boiling 
point  and  pour  into  dripping-tin,  after  pouring  off  the 
fat.  Stir  the  sediment,  strain  and  pour  round  the  meat. 
Garnish  with  boiled  sprouts,  baked  tomatoes,  or  potato 
cut  like  olives  and  fried. 

ROAST   STUFFED   VEAL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

-     3  lbs.  Fillets  of  Veal.  Little  liebig  or  Browning 
2  ozs.  Veal  Forcemeat.  (if  necessary). 

J  pint  Stock.  4  to  6  Tomatoes. 

1  teaspoonful  Flour.  Cut  Lemon. 

Bone  the  fillet  of  veal,  stuff  with  forcemeat  and  bind 
with  tape.  Melt  some  dripping  in  a  tin  and  place  the 
veal  on  a  trivet.  Roast  in  a  hot  oven  at  first  and  a 
more  moderate  one  afterwards,  allowing  20  minutes  to 
the  pound  and  20  minutes  over.  When  ready,  dish  the 
veal.  Blend  the  flour  with  the  stock  made  from  the 
bones;  stir  till  boiling,  season.  Pour  off  dripping  from 
tin,  leaviag  the  sediment,  pour  in  gravy  to  collect  this 
and  boil  in  tin;  then  strain  a  little  round  the  meat,  and 
serve   the   rest    in    a   sauce-boat.        Garnish   with    baked 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT.  93 

tomatoes  or  anyi  other  delicate  vegetable  and  serve  with 
cut  lemon,  handed  separately. 

Forcemeat  {see  page  252). 

ROAST   PORK. 

Wipe  and  see  that  the  pork  is  jointed,  score  or  prick 
the  fat.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  roast,  basting  frequently ; 
allow  25  minutes  to  the  pound  and  25  minutes  over.  Serve 
with  thickened  gravy  made  as  follows  : — 

Pour  0&.  the  fat,  add  the  salt,  brown  it,  then  put  in 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir  it  well  about  the  dripping- 
tin;  gradually  pour  in  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  till 
it  boils,  season. 

Pork  may  also  be  stuffed  with  Sage  and  Onions  {see 
page  252). 

Apple  Sauce  {see  page  239)  should  accompany  roast  pork. 

FOREQUARTER   OF    LAMB. 

Roast,  basting  carefully,  first  being  sure  that  it  is 
properly  jointed.  When  cooked,  loosen  the  shoulder  from 
the  rest  of  the  joint,  put  under  it  a  lump  of  butter 
(about  1  oz.),  squeeze  in  some  lemon  juice  and  sprinkle 
on  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Serve  with  gravy  and  mint 
sauce,  and  have  a  second  hot  dish  ready  on  which  to  put 
the  shoulder. 

ROAST   FOWL. 

Pluck  and  singe  the  fowl.  Make  a  cut  in  leg  above 
the  toes  and  draw  the  sinews,  then  cut  off  the  feet,  scald 
and  scrape  the  legs.  Cut  off  the  head,  leaving  a  long 
neck  skin.  Cut  neck  skin  up  the  back  and  remove  the 
crop,  neck,  and  windpipe.  Push  the  fingers  in  the  open- 
ing and  loosen  all  round.    (Enlarge  the  vent,  push  fingers 


94  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

round  the  skeleton,  loosening  all  round,  being  careful  not 
to  wound  any  of  the  intestines  or  break  the  gall  bladder. 
Lay  hold  of  the  gizzard  and  pull  out  everythiag.  Remove 
the  lungs  and  wipe  out,  never  wash  unless  necessary. 
Make  a  slit  in  the  skin  above  the  opening  in  vent  and 
pull  the  tail  through.  Stuff  the  breast  with  forcemeat 
(2  to  3  ozs.  veal  forcemeat),  fold  the  neck  skin  over. 
Truss  by  folding  wings  back,  pressing  legs  well  in  against 
the  body.  Pass  threaded  trussing  needle  through  the 
wing  and  the  joint  between  thigh  bone,  and  drumstick 
through  body.  Repeat  this  process  on  the  other  side 
and  tie  securely.  Pass  the  threaded  trussing  needle 
through  the  thin  bone  against  which  the  tail  is  lying, 
twist  the  string  round  tail  securely  and  pass  the  needle 
through  the  thin  bone  at  the  other  side  and  fasten.  Place 
slices  of  fat  bacon  on  breast,  cover  with  greased  paper, 
place  on  a  trivet  in  tin  in  which  2  ozs.  dripping  have 
been  melted.  Roast  li  to  li  hours,  according  to  age 
and  size  of  bird.  Baste  bird  frequently,  remove  the 
paper  and  bacon,  baste,  dredge  with  flour,  and  put  back 
in  a  hat  oven  3  minutes  to  froth.  Remove  strings  and 
place  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  gravy  round.  Garnish  with 
curled  bacon  and  water-cress,  and  place  cutlet  frills  on 
l^s.  Serve  with  gravy  and  bread  sauce, 
e         * 

Gravy. — Simmer  giblets  in  stock;  strain,  to  every 
i  pint  allow  one  teaspoonful  cornflour  or  arrowroot. 
Blend,  season,  and  boil,  then  stir  in  the  dripping-tin  to 
collect  sediment  after  fat  from  roasting  has  been  poured  off. 

Veal  Forcemeat  {see  page  252). 


ROAST  DUCK. 

Singe  the  duck  and  draw  it.  Cut  off  the  wing  bones 
at  the  first  joint.  Cut  off  the  toes,  then  scald  and  skin 
the  feet.  •    Fold  them  on  to  the  back  of  the  bird.       Fill 


HOUSEHOLD  C00KES7 —  MEAT.  95 

the  body  ■with  sage  and  onion  stuffing;  fasten  in  position 
by  means  of  skewers. 

Make  a  small  slit  in  the  skin  at  the  apron  and  just 
catch  the  tip  of  the  tail.  Fix  the  bird  in  position  by 
means  of  trussing  needle  and  string,  and  catch  the  skin 
at  the  tail.  Place  in  a  tin  with  2  ozs.  hot  dripping  and 
roast  1  to  2J  hours,  according  to  size.  Baste  frequently. 
Serve  with  thickened  gravy.  Garnish  with  water-cress. 
Send  apple  sauce  to  table  with  the  duck.  A  goose  is 
cooked  and  served  in  the  same  way. 

Apple  Sauce  {see  page  239). 

Sage  and  Onion  Stuffing  {see  page  252). 

ROAST   PIGEONS. 

/ 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  or  3  Pigeons.  A  few  Vine  Leaves. 

2  or  3  ozs.  Dripping.  2  or  3  pieces  of  fat  Bacon. 

Draw,  singe,  and  wipe  the  pigeons.  Cut  off  toes,  scald, 
and  skin  the  feet.  Truss  like  a  roast  fowl,  but  cross  the 
legs.  Heat  the  dripping  in  a  tin;  place  in  the  birds; 
put  bacon  on  top;  place  vine  leaves  on  each  bird.  Roast 
about  40  minutes,  basting  frequently.  Serve  on  thick 
toast  or  fried  bread.  Garnish  with  water-cress  and 
browned  crumbs,  chip  potatoes  and  salad.  Hand  bread 
sauce  and  browned  gravy  with  pigeons.  _ 

BONED    FOWL. 

Ingredient. — 1  Fowl  (undrawn). 

Singe,  remove  the  sinews  and  remove  the  feet.  Split 
the  neck-skin  down  the  middle  of  the  back  and  break 
off  the  neck.  Begin  to  bone  at  the  merry-thought. 
Separate  wing  at  the  joint.  Go  on  boning  round  the 
skeleton  until  the  legs  are  reached.  Push  well  inside, 
remove  the  thigh-bone,  also  half  the  drumstick.  Go  on 
boning  the  bird  until  it  can  be  turned  inside  out.    Season 


96  EOUSEEOLD  COOEEBY —  MEAT. 

and  stuff  with  half  of  a  tinned  tongue  and  1  lb.  sausage 
meat.  Truss,  using  skewers.  Cover  with  buttered  paper 
and  roast  1  hour  to  IJ,  according  to  size.  Make  from 
giblets  and  bones  some  stock,  and  make  gravy  from  the 
stock,  thickening  it  with  arrowroot  as  for  roast  fowl. 
Garnish  with  water-cress.      Serve  hot  or  cold. 

BOILED    FOWL. 

Pluck,  singe,  clean  and  wipe  the  fowl.  Draw  the 
sinews,  then  cut  the  legs  off  at  the  drumstick.  Cut  neck 
off  as  close  to  the  body  as  possible,  leaving  a  long  neck 
skin  to  wrap  over.  Put  fingers  into  hole  made  for 
drawing  the  bird,  and  loosen  the  skin  all  round  the  l^s. 
Push  them  inside,  pocketing  them.  Twist  the  wings  over 
at  the  back  of  bird.  Pass  the  threaded  trussing  through 
the  ends  of  wings  nearest  the  1^,  and  between  the  drum- 
stick and  thigh  bone  through  the  fowl,  and  out  at  the 
other  side,  securing  the  other  leg  and  wing  in  the  same 
way.  Push  tail  inside,  and  fasten  ends  of  drumstick 
together,  pushing  the  needle  through  the  tail  at  the  same 
time.  Wrap  the  fowl  in  cloth  or  buttered  paper  after 
placing  one  or  two  slices  of  lemon  on  the  breast.  Plunge 
into  boiling  water,  simmer  1  to  IJ  hours,  or  longer,  accord- 
ing to  size  and  age.  Remove  string  and  paper,  place 
on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot  while  preparing  sauce.  Pour 
suitable  sauce  (E^,  Oyster,  Mushroom)  over,  and  garnish 
with  cut  lemon  and  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg. 

BOILED   RABBIT. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1   Babbit.  Onion  Sauce  (see  page  238), 

Wash  the  rabbit  and  take  out  the  heart,  liver,  and 
kidneys.  Truss  it,  taking  the  fore  legs  backwards  and 
the  back  l^s  forwards.  Push  a  skewer  through,  twist 
the  head  to  one  side  and  fasten  with  a  skewer  and  secure 
with  string.       Have  a  pan  of  boiling  water  ready,  boil 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT.  97 

the  rabbit  gently  from  1  to  IJ  hours,  according  to  age. 
When  quite  tender  remove  the  skewers,  dish  on  a  hot 
dish.  Cover  with  |  pint  onion  sauce,  and  garnish  with 
chopped  liver,  which  has  been  put  in  to  cook  half  an 
hour  before  the  rabbit  was  ready. 

DRESSED    LAMB'S    HEAD. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

A  Lamb's  Head  and  Pluck.      1  oz.  Flour. 
2  table-spoonfuls  3  ozs.  Dripping. 

Breaderumbs.  Pepper-  and  Salt. 

Take  out  the  brains,  thoroughly  cleanse  the  head  and 

pluck;  put  aside  half  the  liver,  boil  the  rest  "of  the  pluck 

with  the  head  for  2  hours.       Place  the  head  on  a  tin, 

cover  it  with  breadcrumbs,  put  1  oz.  dripping  over  it  in 

small  pieces,  place  it  in  the  oven  or  before  the  fire  to 

brown.       Blend  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,   add 

the  pepper  and  salt,  J  pint  of  the  water  the  head  was 

boiled   in,   with  the   heart,   half  the   liver  and  half  the 

lights,  minced  finely;  cook  gently  for  20  minutes.      Heat 

2  ozs.  dripping  in  a  frying-pan,  cut  the  uncooked  half 

of  the  liver  in  slices  and  fry  them.       Place  the  head  on 

a  dish  with  the  mince  round  it,  lay  the  fried  liver  on 

the  mince  with  brain  cakes. 

BRAIN   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Brains.  1  table-spoonful  Vinegar. 

2  table-spoonfuls  1  Dgg. 

Breadcrumbs.  Pepper  and  Salt. 

1  teaspoonful  finely-chopped  1  oz.  Dripping. 

Parsley. 

Wash  the  brains  with  the  vinegar  and  1  pint  of  cold 
water;  boil  them  for  10  minutes,  drain  and  chop  them, 
mix  with  the  breaderumbs,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
the  egg  well  beaten.  Heat  the  dripping  in  a  frying-pan, 
drop  in  the  mixture  in  spoonfuls;  fry  a  golden  brown.       \ 


98  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

CALF'S   HEAD. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

Half  Calf's  Head.  Few  rashers  of  Ham. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  1  small  Carrot. 

2  ozs.  Flour.  1  small  Turnip. 

i  pint  Liquor.  1  Onion. 

J  pint  Mii.  Bay  Leaf. 

Wash  the  head  and  remove  the  brain  and  tongue. 
Blanch  the  head.  Put  into  pan  and  cover  with  cold 
.water.  Add  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  bay  leaf  and  the 
tongue.  Boil  gently  until  tender,  removing  scum  as  it 
rises.  Boil  the  brain  in  muslin.  Cut  the  bacon  into 
dice  and  fry.  Remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  without . 
breaking  the  skin.  Serve  coated  with  parsley  sauce. 
Garnish  with  chopped  brain,  bacon,  quarters  of  lemon, 
and  sliced  tongue. 

GALANTINE    OF   CHICKEN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Chicken  (undrawn).  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

1  lb.  Veal.  Ground  Mace. 

J  lb.  Ham.  Grated  Lemon  Bind. 

Bone  the  chicken,  taking  out  every  bone;  sprinkle  with 
seasoning ;  tuck  the  legs  inside.  Take  1  lb.  veal  and*  pass 
through  a  mincing  machine  twice,  and  do  the  same  with 
the  i  lb.  ham.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  ground 
mace,  and  lemon  rind.  Place  pieces  of  tongue  in  long 
strips  on  it.  Fill  the  places  between  with  truffle,  hard- 
boiled  egg  and  pistachio^.  Cover  with  the  rest  of  the 
meat.  Malce  the  farce  into  the  shape  of  the  bird  and 
slip  the  farce  inside,  sew  up.  Butter  a  cloth  well  and 
place  the  bird  on  it.  Roll  it  firmly  round,  tie  at  each 
end,  and  cook  in  hot,  well-flavoured  stock  (flavour  with 
vegetables,  and  the  bones  of  the  bird  may  be  used).  Cook 
for  li  hours,  'allowing  25  minutes  per  lb.;  remove  the 
•  cloth,  wrap  in  a  clean  one  to  remove  some  of  the  grease ; 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  MEAT.  99 

place  between  two  boards;  put  weight  on  top.  When 
cold,  remove  threads,  glaze  and  ornament  with  aspic  jelly. 
Serve  on  a  block  of  aspic  jelly,  with  chopped  jelly  round. 
N.B. — Be  careful  not  to  boil  the  bird  too  quickly,  or 
it  will  burst. 

GALANTINE    OF   VEAL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  lbs.  Breast  of  Veal.  Truffle. 

IJ  lbs.  Sausage  Meat.  Ground  Mace. 

2  hard-boiled  Eggs.  Lemon  Bind. 

2  thick  slices  Tongue.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 
Few  Pistachios  and 
Almonds  (blanched). 

Bone  the  veal,  i  Add  mace  and  grated  lemon  rind  to 
the  sausage  meat;  spread  over  the  veal.  Place  on  the 
tongue  cut  in  blocks  the  eggs  cut  in  pieces,  and  fill  up 
spaces  with  almonds,  truffle,  and  pistachios.  Fold  the 
veal  round;  sew  up;  sew  the  ends.  Tie  in  a  buttered 
cloth.  BoU  gently  in  stock  25  minutes  to  the  lb.  When 
cooked  remove  the  cloth,  roll  up  in  a  fresh  towel  and 
press  between  two  boards  till  cold.  Trim  when  eold 
and  remove  threads,  glaze  and  garnish.      Serve  on  salad. 


PRESSED    BEEF. 

INGREDIENTS. 

10  lbs.  Silverside   (pickled).      1  Onion. 

1  Carrot.  1  pint  Aspic. 

1  Turnip.  Glaze. 

Well  wash  the  beef,  tie  in  a  cloth  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  enough  cold  water  to  cover;  simmer  gently 
1  hour.  Pour  off  the  water  and  cover  with  fresh  boiling 
water,  add  the  vegetables  and  simmer  gently  for  3  hours. 
Take  out  the  meat,  tie  in  a  clean  cloth  and  put  into  press 
between  two  dishes  with  a  weight  on  top.  When  quite 
eold,  glaze  and  garnish  with  chopped  aspic. 


100  HOUSESOLD  COOKERY —  MEAT. 

BRAWN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Pig's  Head.  2  or  3  hard-boiled  Eggs. 

2  Onions.  3  Cloves. 

12  Peppercorns.  Blade  of  Maee. 

Sprig  Parsley.  Thyme. 

Clean  the  head  well  and  put  it  in  pickle  for  3  da,ys. 
Then  boil  gently  till  flesh  leaves  the  bones  easily.  Take 
the  tongue  from  the  head,  skin  it,  cut  into  slices,  then 
into  fancy  shapes.  Wet  a  plain  round  mould,  decorate 
with  the  fancy  shapes  of  tongue  and  the  eggs  cut  in  slices. 
Cut  the  meat  into  large  dice.  Take  one  quart  of  liquor, 
put  the  bones  back  in  it  with  the  herbs  and  onions,  pepper- 
corns and  cloves,  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Season  the 
pieces  of  meat,  strain  the  liquor  over  and  mix  with  it,  boil 
together  3  minutes,  then  put  into  the  prepared  mould. 
When  cold,  turn  out  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


GLAZED   AND   BUTTERED   TONGUE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Ox  Tongue.  Chopped  Aspic. 

Melted  Glaze.  Creamed  Butter. 

Blocks  of  Aspic. 

Wash  and  soak  the  tongue — ^the  time  (longer  or  shorter) 
depending  on  how  long  it  has  been  pickled.  Boil  gently, 
allowing  25  minutes  to  the  lb.  and  25  over.  Carefully 
skin  so  as  not  to  break  the  tip,  and  shape  on  a  board, 
placing  a  rolling  pin  under  it  to  arch  it  nicely.  Leave 
overnight.  Trim  off  the  root  part;  brush  with  glaze; 
decorate  with  creamed  butter.  Garnish  with  blocks  of 
aspic.      Kx  a  frill  round  the  root.   \ 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  MEAT.  101 

QUENELLES    OF   VEAL. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Eaw  Veal  (weighed  2  small  Eggs. 

after  sieving).  ,  1  oz.  Melted  Butter. 

i  lb.  Panada.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Mince  the  veal  twice,  then  pound  with  the  panada.  Add 
eggs,  butter  and  seasoning.  Pass  through  a  wire  sieve. 
Mould  with  dessert-spoons  dipped  in  boiling  water  into 
the  shape  of  eggs.  Place  ii^  a  buttered  saute  pan.  Gently 
pour  boiling  salted  water  over.  Then  poach  very  gently 
for  about  12  minutes.  Turn  over  in  the  water.  Drain 
on  a  paper  or  a  towel.  Dish  on  a  potato  border.  Pour 
Veloute  sauce  over.  Have  centre  of  peas  or  other 
delicate  vegetable. 

PANADA. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Stock   (good).  2  table-spoonfuls  Sieved 

J  oz.  Butter.  Flour. 

Boil  stock  and  butter.  Add  flour,  stir  vigorously,  and 
cook  thoroughly.      Use  i  lb.  of  this  for  the  quenelles. 

Veloute  Sauce  {see  page  241). 


HARICOT   MUTTON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  best-end  Neck  of  1  pint  Water. 

Mutton.  1  Carrot. 

1  oz.  Dripping.  J  Turnip. 

1  small  table-spoonful  Flour.  Seasoning. 

1  Onion.  1  oz.  Haricot  Beans. 

Melt  the  dripping,  fry  the  onion  till  golden  brown,  add 
the  stock,  seasoning  and  vegetables,  and  simmer  1  hour. 
Saw  off  the  chine  bone,  divide  mutton  into  chops,  trim 
neatly,  taking  off  most  of  the  fat,  fry  a  golden  brown, 
drain,  and  add  to  the  hot  sauce,  cook  gently  20  minutes. 


102  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT. 

Dish  chops  neatly,  with  vegetables  in  centre  and  gravy 
poured  over.  This  can  be  made  same  as  brown  meat 
stew.      Beans  par-boiled  then  added  along  with  vegetables. 

STEWED   KIDNEYS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

li  Sheep 's  Kidneys.  i  table-spoonful"  Flour. 

1  small  Onion  (sliced).  2  or  3  table-spoonfuls  I 

i  pint  Stock.  Sherry. 

1   oz.  Butter.  Few  Mushrooms. 

1  Clove.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Skin  the  kidneys  and  split  in  two,  remove  the  core, 
wash  and  dry,  roll  in  flonr,  and  fry  quickly  in  butter. 
Place  in  a  pan  with  the  stock  (made  hot).  Add  mush- 
rooms and  onion,  and  seasoning.  Simmer  half  an  hour. 
Blend  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water  or  stock.  Pour 
the  hot  stock  over.  Return  to  the  pan,  boil  thoroughly, 
and  add  sherry.  Dish  the  kidneys,  strain  over  the  garvy, 
and  garnish  with  small  potato  balls  or  boiled  macaroni. 

STEWED   VEAL   AND   RICE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

Knuckle  of  Veal.  2  ozs.  Butter. 

1  Turnip.  Chopped  Parsley. 

2  ozs.  Flour.  Seasoning. 

J  pint  Milk.  i  pint  liquor  from  Cooking 

i  lb.  Bice.  Meat. 

1  Onion,  stuck  with  Cloves. 

Wipe  the  meat.  Chop  off  the  end  of  the  knuckle 
bone.  Put  into  a  white  lined  saucepan  with  the  onion 
and  water  to  barely  cover^^  Bring  to  boiling  point;  then 
add  turnip,  cut  into  dice.  The  washed  rice  should  be 
added  half  an  hour  before  serving.  Simmer  till  cooked. 
Serve  the  veal  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  with  the  rice 
as  a  border-  Coat  with  1  pint  parsley  sauce  made  with 
half  milk  and  half  liquor,  in  which  the  veal  was  cooked. 
Garnish  with  cut  lemon  and  rolls  of  bacon  (grilled). 


SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT.  103 

STEWED    STEAK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Stewing  Steak,  cut  in      1  oz.  Flour. 

one  piece.  f  pint  Stock. 

1  oz.  Dripping.  Jjarrot  and  Turnip  to  garnish. 

i  Turnip.  Seasoning. 

1  Onion. 

Heat^the  dripping;  fry  the  onions,  cut  in  thin  rings, 
a  nice  brown,  remove,  then  fry  the  meat,  remove,  bring 
the  stock  to  boiling  point,  replace  the  meat  and  onions. 
Add  these  to  the  stock,  also  the  trimmings  of  vegetables 
left  from  cutting  them  into  fency  shapes,  and  seasoning. 
Simmer  till  the  meat  is  tender.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour;  bring  to  boiling  point.  Place  the  steak  on  to  a 
hot  dish;  strain  the  gravy  over.  Garnish  with  vegetables 
cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  boiled  in  salted  water. 

BEEF   OLIVES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I 

li  lbs.  Steak  (thick  and  in        f  pint  Stock.   ^ 
piece).  1  oz.  Dripping. 

2  ozs.  Forcemeat  1  table-spoonful  Flour. 

(see  page  252).  About  J  lb.  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Prepare  the  forcemeat  by  mixing  all  the  ingredients 
together.  Cut  the  steak  into  pieces  2  inches  wide,  cut 
these  into  even  strips.  Place  1  teaspoonful  forcemeat 
on  each  piece,  roll  up,  tie  with  string,  and  fry  briskly 
in  very  hot  dripping.  When  brown,  place  in  the  stock, 
to  which  some  carrot,  turnip,  and  seasoning  have  been 
added  to  flavour.  Simmer  all  very  gently  1  hour  or  till 
tender.  Take  off  the  string  from  the  olives.  Thicken 
the  gravy,  replace  the  olives.  Arrange  the  mashed 
potatoes  neatly  on  a  dish.  Place  the  olives  in  lines  on 
top,  pour  gravy  over. 

N.B. — Veal  olives  are  prepared  similarly,  with  the 
addition  of  a  slice  of  fat  bacon  laid  over  the  veal. 


104  SOVSEEOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

VICTORIA   STEAK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Ham  Forcemeat.  , 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  1  oz.  chopped  Ham. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  i  teaspooniul  Mixed  Herbs. 

Pardey.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Little  grated  Lemon  Bind.  Egg  to  bind. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together. 

1  lb.  thin  lean  Steak  (cut  Salt  and  Pepper. 

in  one  piece).  Little  chopped  Cooked  Ham 

1  oz.  Dripping.  for  gamiki. 

i  piat  Stock.  Pew  scraps  of  Vegetables  (if 

1  table-spoonful  Flour.  liked). 

Place  the  forcemeat  on  steak,  roll  up,  and  fasten  with 
string.  '  Fry  briskly  in  dripping  which  has  been  made 
very  hot.  Whai  quite  brown,  remove  steak  whilst  heating 
stock.  When  stock  is  boiling,  place  ia  the  meat, 
v^etables  and  seasoning,  and  simmer  about  2'  hours,  or 
until  steak  is  tender.  Remove  string,  thicken  gravy  with 
flour,  pour  over  meat,  and  garnish  with  the  chopped 
cooked  ham. 

N.B. — Any  of  the  brown  stews  may  be  made  by  placing 
the  meat,  unfried,  into  boiling  good  brown  sauce  and 
simmering  till  tender,  if  this  method  be  preferred. 

STEWED   OX-TAIL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Ox-tail.  J  table-spoonful  Lemon  Juice. 

1  small  Onion.  1  table-spoonful  Mushroom 

2  doves.  Ketchup. 

J  blade  Mace.  1  pint  Oold  Water  or  Stock. 

Bouquet  Herbs.  1  table-spoonful  Browned 

i  Carrot.  Plour. 

4  Turnip.  2  ozs.  Butter. 

6  Peppercorns. 

Divide  the  tail  into  joints  after  washing  and  drying  it. 
Trim  off  superfluous  fat.  Fry  a  nice  brown  in  bi;itter 
and  place  in  a  pan  with  hot  water  or  stock,  add  lemon 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT.  105 

juice,  onion  (fried),  the  herbs  and  vegetables  and  season- 
ing. Simmer  2  to  4  hours,  till  tender.  Remove  the 
joints,  strain  the  gravy.  Place  the  browned  flour  in  the 
pan,  add  the  gravy,  stir  till  boiling;  add  ketchup.  Put 
back  the  joints,  and  allow  to  heat  through.  Serye, 
garnished  with  croutons  of  fried  bread,  also  carrot  and 
turnip  cut  into  fancy  shapes  and  boiled  in  salt  water. 

JUGGED    HARE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  good-sized  Hare.  1  Onion. 

IJ  pints  Bone  Stock.  3  ozs.  Butter. 

1  lb.  firm  Beef  Steak  and  Seasoning. 
Forcemeat  (as  below).  li  ozs.  Flour. 

20  Peppercorns.  i  pint  Port  Wine. 

4  Cloves.  1  table-spoonful  Red  Currant 

Bouquet  Herbs.  Jelly. 

Forcemeat.  ingredients. 

4  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  J  teaspoonful  Salt. 

2  ozs.  chopped  Suet.  J  teaspoonful  Pepper. 
1  table-spoonful  chopped  2  Egga. 

Parsley.  Little  Anchovy  Essence, 

i  teaspoonful  sifted  Thyme. 

Mix  the  forcemeat  in .  the  usual  way.  Cut  the  steak 
into  strips  and  place  a  little  forcemeat  on  each,  roll  up, 
tie  with  string,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  some  of  the 
butter,  made  hot;  place  aside.  Skin,  paunch,  wipe  the 
hare,  save  the  blood  carefully.  Cut  hare  into  neat  joints 
and  fry  them  quickly  in  butter.  Place  hare  and  pre- 
pared steak  in  a  stewjar  along  with  the  onion  and 
flavourings.  Add  the  stock  and  a  very  little  seasoning. 
Place  the  jar  in  a  tin  of  water,  and  put  in  a  fairly  hot 
oven  at  flrst.  See  that  the  jar  is  tightly  covered. 
Bring  to  boiling  point  and  simmer  gently  till  tender  (2 
to  3  hours,  according  to  age  of  hare).  Whilst  cooking, 
make  up  the  forcemeat  not  used  for  the  steak  into  neat 
baJls.       Egg,  crumb,   and  fry  in  hot  fat;   add  to   hare 


106  BOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

20  minutes  before  it  is  ready.  When  hare  is  tender, 
remove  the  balls,  joints,  and  steak.  Add  blended  flour 
to  the  gravy,  boil  well,  season,  and  add  jelly.  Add  the 
blood  and  heat  through  again.  Then  add  wine,  and,  if 
liked,  a  little  anchovy  essence.  Remove  strings  from  the 
steak  and  arrange  hare,  etc.,  neatly  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour 
gravy  over.  Garnish  with  the  forcemeat  balls,  and,  if 
liked,  glace  cherries. 

MINCE   ROLL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Mince.  Stock  or  Water  to  moisten, 
i  lb.  Ham  or  2  Sausages.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayemie. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs 
1  table-spoonful  chopped  to  coat. 

Parsley.  1  pint  Stock  (brown), 

i  teaspoonful  Herbs.  1  oz.  Flour. 

Mix  njieat,  crumbs,  seasoning  and  flour  and  sufficient 
stock  or  water  to  moisten.  Shape  into  a  roll,  brush  with 
beaten  egg  and  coat  with  crumbs.  Fry  quickly  in  hot 
fat  till  well  browned.  Have  hot  1  pint  stock.  Place  in 
roll  and  seasoning.  Stew  gently  IJ  hours.  Thicken 
the  gravy,  using  1  table-spoonful  flour,  bring  to  boiling 
point  and  pour  over.  If  water  is  used,  the  addition  of 
a  little  carrot,  turnip,  and  onion  is  advisable. 

N.B. — If  stock  is  pale,  make  first  a  good  brown  roux. 

DUTCH   SWEETBREADS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Fillet  of  Veal  (minced).     Grated  Lemon  Ednd. 
i  oz.  Suet.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs. 

2"  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  1  table-spoonful  Flour. 

1  oz.  Butter.  J  lb.  Curled  Bacon. 

1  Egg  and  1  Yolk.  .  Slices  of  Lemon. 

Salt  and  Pepper.  1  pint  Stock  (brown). 

Soak  the  breadcrumbs  with  a  little  milk,  then  squeeze 
dry  in  towel.       Melt  the'  butter,  add  crumbs,  cook  over 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT.  107 

the  fire,  add  veal,  egg  and  seasoning,  also  lemon  rind. 
Shape  the  sweetbreads  by  dividing  the  mixture  and  rolling 
round;  egg  and  crumb  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat  quickly. 
Have  stock  hot  in  pan,  add  seasoning,  stew  sweetbreads 
in  this  20  minutes.  Then  remove  them,  thicken  the  gravy, 
stirring  until  it  boils,  add  lemon  juice.  Dish  sweetbreads 
on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  gravy  over,  garnish  with  curled 
bacon  and  cut  lemon. 

Curled  Bacon  (see  page  353). 

BROWN    STEW   RABBIT. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  Babbit.  J  pint  Water  or  Stock. 

2  ozs.  Butter  or  Dripping.        1  table-spoonful  Flour. 

1  Onion.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

2  Cloves.  i  lb.  Pried  Bacon. 

Slice  the  onion  and  fry  in  half  the  dripping.  Place 
in  stewpan  with  the  water.  Add  cloves.  Have  rabbit 
cleaned,  washed,  and  cut  up.  Roll  joints  in  flour.  Fry 
in  the  rest  of  the  dripping.  Add  rabbit  and  seasoning 
to  the  hot  stock  and  simmer  till  tender.  Remove  joints, 
thicken  the  gravy.  Strain  gravy  over  the  rabbit. 
Arrange  bacon  round  the  dish. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  bacon  may  be  stewed  with  the  rabbit. 

CURRIED    VEAL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Veal.  J  pint  Stock. 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  small  dessert-spoonful 

1  small  Onion.  Curry  Powder. 

1  small  Apple.  2  teaspoonfula  Cocoanut. 
Salt.  i  table-spoonful  Flour. 
Lemon  Juice.  *                           J  teaspoonful  Curry  Paste. 
A  little  Milk.  6  ozs.  Boiled  Bice. 

2  teaspoonfuls  Chutney                   (see  page  156). 

Chop  the  apple  and  onion,  and  put  onion  in  a  lined 
pan  with  butter  and  fry  till  golden  brown;  add  the  other 


108  HOUSEBOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

ingredients.  Fry  gently  20  minutes,  then  add  flour  and 
gradually  the  stock  and  seasoning.  Stir  till  boiling,  and 
simmer  20  minutes  longer.  Cut  up  the  veal  in  small 
pieces  and  when  the  sauce  has  had  its  full  time  of  cooking, 
add  veal,  and  simmer  until  all  is  tender.  Add  a  squeeze 
of  lemon  juice,  seasoning,  and  about  one  table-spoonful 
of  mUk  or  cream.  Serve  on  an  entree  dish,  with  a  wall 
of  rice  on  either  side.      Garnish  the  rice  nKitly. 

TV.B.^Other  meats  may  be  used  as  above,  also  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  some  vegetables. 


STEWED   PIGEONS. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

2  Pigeons.  Squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

12  Mushrooms.  1  oz.  Butter. 

i  pint  Stock.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayemie. 

i  lb.  Ham.  •  1  teaspoonful  Flour.      ~ 

Clean  the  pigeons  and  cut  in  two.  Fry  quickly  in 
butter,  then  put  in  a  stewpan  with  hot  stock  and  mush- 
rooms (which  have  been  peeled  and  washed)  and  seasoning. 
Add,  if  possible,  i  lb.  ham,  if  liked  (it  could  be  fried  with 
the  birds).  Stew  gently  1-2  hours.  Remove  the  birds, 
keep  hot,  strain  and  thicken  t^e  gravy.  Serve  daintily, 
using  mushrooms  as  garnish.  Add  lemon  juice  to  gravy 
and  strain  over. 

SALMI   OF   PHEASANT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  Boasted  Pheasant.  i  oz.  Glaze. 

1  small  Onion.  IJ  oza.  Butter. 

1  Tomato.  1  oz.  Flour  (good  measure). 

1  or  2  Mushrooms.  Seasoning.  . 

I  pint  Stock.  » 

Melt  i  oz.  butter,  add  to  it  the  sliced  mushrooms  and 
tomato.       Cut  up  the  bird  in  neat  joints.      Remove  skin 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  MEAT.  109 

and  loose  bones.  Add  them  to  the  mixture  and  fry 
about  15  minutes.  Add  stock  and  glaze  and  simmer 
about  20  minutes;  strain.  Melt  1  oz.  butter  in  a  pan 
and  add  the  flour.  Fry  till  a  light  brown.  Pour  on 
the  strained  stock  gradually,  stir  till  boiling.  Cool  slightly. 
Add  the  joints  of  bird  and  seasoning.  Simmer  gently 
15  to  20  minutes.  Pile  up  on  a  croiite  of  bread  (fried) 
and  garnish  with  small  pieces  of  fried  bread,  or  with 
a  puree  of  green  peas  (see  page  158). 

A  salmi  of  pigeons  or  partridge  is  done  similarly. 
Duckling  may  also  be  used  in  the  same  way,  but  do  not 
fry  the  skin,  as  it  is  so  greasy. 


SWEETBREADS   A    LA   CREME. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Sweetbreads.  4  ins.  Carrot, 
i  pint  Stock.  i  blade  Mace. 

1  small  Onion.  Few  drops  Lemon  Juice. 

3  or  4  ins.  Lemon  Bind.  i  pint  Milk  or  Cream. 

2  or  3  ins.  Celery.  1  oz.  Butter. 

10  Peppercorns.  li  ozs.  Flour  (good  measure). 

Wash  sweetbreads.  Soak  them  half  an  hour  in  cold 
salted  water.  Bring  to  the  boil,  then  plunge  in  basin 
of  cold  water  and  salt  and  lemon  juice,  then  wash  and 
trim  off  any  fat  or  pipes.  Place  in  a  pan  with  the 
stock,  flavouring  and  v^etables.  Sinamer  till  cooked 
(the  time  varies  from  1  to  2  hours).  Remove  the  sweet- 
breads. Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  cook  lightly. 
Add  gradually  the  strained  stock  from  the  sweetbreads, 
add  the  milk  and  cream.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  cook 
thoroughly,  season,  add  lemon  juice.  Seat  the  sweetbreads 
in  the  sauce.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  mashed  potatoes  or 
fried  bread,  and  coat  with  sauce.  Garnish  with  cut  ham. 
fried  bread,  cut  lemon,  and  parsley. 


110 


BO  USESOLD  COOKEBT  —  MEAT. 


BLANQUETTE  OF  VEAL  OR  RABBIT. 


INGREDIENTS. 


1  lb.  Veal  cut  in  pieces. 
Herbs  (tied  in  muslin), 
,  5  Peppercorns,  2  Cloves. 
2J  ozs.  Butter, 
i  pint  Cream. 
Little  chopped  Ham  for 
garnish. 


2  Onions. 

1  teaspoonful  Liebig  Extract. 
2}  ozs.  Mour. 

2  Yolks. 

Juiee  of  1  Lemon. 
Cold  'Vfeter. 


Put  the  veal  into  a  stewpan,  with  the  onion  and  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  herbs,  and  Liebig.  Cover  with  cold  water. 
Bring  to  boiling  point.  Skim.  Cook  very  gently  li 
hours.  Strain  the  liquor.  Put  meat  on  a  hot  dish. 
Cook  the  butter  and  flour  together.  Add  1  pint  of  the 
liquor.  Mix  the  yolks  and  cream  together,  add  to  sauce. 
Cook,  but  do  not  boil,  after  the  yolks  are  added.  Pour 
the  sauce  over  the  meat.       Garnish  with  chopped  ham.    ' 


2  ozs.  Butter. 
2  ozs.  lean  Ham. 
1  Onion. 
Few 'Herbs. 
Lemon  Bind. 
Pinch  Salt. 


BRAISING. 

BRAISE. 

INGBBDIENTS. 

Med.  sized  Carrot. 
Piece  Turnip. 
2  stalks  Celery. 
Mace,  Parsley  Stem, 

Bayleaf,  Peppercorns. 
J  pint  Stock. 


Method. 

Melt  the  butter.  Fry  the  vegetables,  roughly  cut  up, 
with  ham  till  lightly  brown.  Place  on  meat,  vegetables, 
etc.,  to  be  braised  and  cover  with  greased  paper.  Put 
on  lid  and  fume  for  10  minutes.  Add  enough  stock 
to  just  cover  vegetables,  bring  to  the  boil  and  simmer 
half  the  required  time'  of  cooking  on  the  stove  and  the 
remaining  half  in  the  oven.  After  cooking  remove  meat, 
strain  vegetables  out  of  the  gravy,  skim  well  and  reduce 


BOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT.  Ill 

to  demi-glaze  and  pour  round  meat.  For  a  White  Braise — 
do  not  brown  the  vegetables  and  use  white  stock.  Milk 
may  be  added  and  the  liquid  made  into  a  sauce  for  serving. 

FRICANDEAU    OF   VEAL. 

Trim  and  lard  neatly  a  fillet  of  veal  or  beef.  Make 
a  braise  as  above,  then  place  on  larded  meat,  cover  with 
greased  paper  and  fume  for  20  minutes.  Add  sufficient 
stock  to  come  half-way  up;  bring  to  boiling  point,  add 
seasoning.  Place  in  the  oven  and  cook  20  minutes  for 
each  lb.  of  meat,  basting  well.  When  cooked,  crisp  the 
lardoons.  Brush  over  with  melted  glaze.  Strain  the 
gravy  and  thicken  with  corn-flour  or  by  reducing;  garnish 
with  cooked  tomatoes,  mushrooms,  or  potatoes  cut  in  fancy 
shapes.       Espagnol  sauce  may  also  be  served.  * 

GRENADINES   OF   VEAL. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

IJ  lbs.  Fillets  of  Veal.  Bacon  for  Larding, 

i  pint  well-flavoured  Stock.      Braise  of  Vegetables. 

Cut  the  meat  into  rounds  the  size  of  a  five-shilling 
piece  and  IJ  inches  thick.  Lard  evenly  with  the  bacon. 
Take  h^lf  a  carrot,  half  a  turnip,  and  a  piece  of  onion; 
cut  into  thin  slices  and  put  iato  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan 
with  a  little  butter.  Fry  20  minutes,  slowly.  Place 
grenadines  on  top  and  fry  for  20  minutes,  then  add 
sufficient  stock  to  come  half-way  up  the  grenadines  with- 
out touching  the  lardoons;  add  seasoning.  Cover  with 
a  greased  paper,  put  on  lid,  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 
Place  in  the  oven  and  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Add 
more  stock  as  it  reduces.  When  tender,  remove  the 
grenadines  from  the  pan;  place  under  the  grill  to  crisp 
the  bacon;,  brush  over  with  glaze.  Strain  the  stock; 
reduce  by  boiling  to  1  gill  or  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful 


112  EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

cornflour;  bring  to  boiling  point.  Season  and  serve 
grenadines  on  potato  border  {see  page  115),  place  some 
nice  vegetables  in  the  centre,  and  pour  gravy  round. 
Espagnol  sauce  may  be  served  instead  of  gravj'. 


LARDED    SWEETBREADS. 

INGKEDIENTS. 

2  Sweetbreads.  Lardoons  of  Fat  Bacon. 

Braise. — As  in  previous  "Braise."     (Page  110.) 

Prepare  braise.  Lard  the  sweetbreads  after  blanching 
and  trimming  them,  and  place  them  on  the  vegetables, 
and  fry  20  minutes.  Add  the  stock,  which  should  just 
come  half-way  up  the  sweetbreads  without  touching  the 
lardoons.  Add  seasoning.  Cook  till  tender  in  the  pan 
in  the  oven.  Lift  the  lid  and  crisp  the  lardoons.  Reduce 
the  gravy  if  necessary.  Brush  the  sweetbreads  with 
melted  glaze.  Place  croute  of  bread  on  entree  dish, 
and  place  sweetbreads  on  top.  Reduce  the  gravy  if 
necessary,  and  pour  round,  or  serve  with  suitable  sauce. 

LARDED   PIGEONS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  PiUet  Veal  (minced).  Maoe. 

S  ozs.  Eaw  Ham  (chopped).  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

2  Pigeons.  Bacon  for  Lardhig. 

Grated  Lemon  Bind.  i  pint  Stock. 

Mix  the  veal  and  ham  with  the  seasonings  and  flavourings. 
Add  the  well-beaten  egg.  Bone  the  pigeons  and  fiE  the 
bodies  with  the  mixture.  Truss  as  for  boiling;  lard  the 
breasts,  prepare  the  braise,  when  fried  20  minutes,  add 
pigeons  and  fry  another  20  minutes,  add  enough  stock 
to  come  half-way  up  the  birds.  Cover  with  buttered 
paper,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven 
tUl  tender.      Remove  the  pigeons,  brush  over  with  melted 


PL 


CUTS  OF  BEEF  (1). 


Roast. 


Sirloin  with 
ribs  attached. 


English  Cut 
Fillet  Roast. 


EOUSESOiD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT.  113 

glaze.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  arrowroot,  allowing  half- 
teaspoonful  to  half-pint  stock  or  reduce.  Pour  a  little 
round  and  serve.  Garnish  with  delicate  vegetables  such 
as  green  peas,  etc.  If  possible,  place  on  a  puree  of 
vegetables. 

CUTLETS    IN   ASPIC   A   LA    PRINCESSE. 

INGEEDIEKTS. 

li  lbs.  best  end  Neek  of  1  pint  Stock. 

Mutton.  Aspic  Jelly. 

Braise  (carrot,  turnip,  etc.).  White  Chaudfroid  Sauce. 
Salad  for  garnish. 

Prepare  the  cutlets  by  removing  the  chine  bone.  Fry 
in  butter;  when  browned  place  on  the  braise,  add  stock, 
cover  with  buttered  paper.  Braise  gently  li  hours. 
Press  between  two  plates.  When  cold,  divide  the  mutton 
into  cutlets  and  trim.  Mask  with  chaudfroid.  Decorate 
with  cut  chilli  pod,  gherkin  and  truffle.  Pour  liquid  aspic 
over  each.  When  set,  serve  on  a  bed  of  salad  over  which 
a  little  Mayonnaise  has  been  sprinkled. 

Mayonnaise  (see  page  167). 

Chaudfroid  Sauce  (see  page  242). 

Aspic  Jelly  (see  page  221).  • 

GRILLING. 

GRILLED    STEAK. 

Choose  a  nice  steak,  fillet,  or  rump,  from  1  to  li  inches 
in  thickness.  Heat  the  gridiron,  rub  suet  on  the  bars, 
brown  the  meat  quickly  on  both  sides,  then  every  2  minutes 
turn  it  till  cooked.  Time  varies  from  12  to  15  minutes, 
according  to  thickness.  Place  on  some  Maitre  d'Hotel 
Butter,  season  lightly,  serve  with  potato  chips  round  and 
oyster  or  tomato  sauce  (if  liked),  and  Maitre  d'Hotel 
Butter  (see  page  114). 

Potato  Chips  (see  page  160). 


114  HOUSEHOLD  COO KEET  —  MEAT. 

MAITRE   D'HOTEL   BUTTER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Fresh  Butter.  A  good  squeeze  of  Lemon 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  juice. 

Parsley.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Cayenne. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  parsley,  lemon  juice,  and  season- 
ing. Spread  smoothly  on  a  plate.  Stand  aside  in  a 
very  cool  place  until  firm.  Cut  into  blocks,  serve  a  little 
on  the  meat,  hand  the  rest  separately  on  glass  plates  with 
some  crushed  ice. 


GRILLED   KIDNEYS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  Sheep's  Kidneys.  A  little  Butter  for  grilling. 

1  oz.  Maitre  d  'Hotel  Butter.      Some  toasted  or  fried  Bread. 

Split  and  wash  the  kidneys,  remove  the  inside  fat.  Run 
a  skewer  through  and  put  some  tiny  pats  of  butter  on 
each.  Place  on  a  heated  and  greased  gridiron  and  grill 
the  kidneys,  turning  every  two  minutes.  Cook  till  just 
done  and  no  more.  When  quite  ready,  place  a  little 
pat  of  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  on  each;  slip  on  to  a  round 
of  toast.  Serve  instantly.  Average  time  about  8 
minutes. 

FRYING. 

MUTTON   CUTLETS. 

Ingredients. — IJ  lbs.  best  end  Neck. 

Saw  off  the  chine  boie,  and  if  necessary,  make  the  rib 
bones  shorter.  Remove  the  leaf  of  fat  and  divide  into 
cutlets.  Trim  skin  from  the  bonB  and  bare  the  bone 
half-inch  above  the  eye.  Beat  lightly  with  a  wooden 
spoon  dipped  in  water,  and  form  into  neat  cutlets.  Season. 
Egg  and  crumb,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  from  8  to  10  minutes 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT.  115 

according  to  thickness.       Serve  with  a  nice  vegetable  in 
the  centre,  and  pour  tomato  or  other  suitable  sauce  round. 

Tomato  Sauce  {see  page  246). 

N.B. — Cutlets  may  be  served  on  a  potato  border,  if 
desired. 

POTATO  BORDER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  sieved  cooked  Potatoes.      J  oz.  Butter. 
1  Tolk  of  Egg.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Melt  the  butter,  mix  all  together.  Form  into  a  roll 
on  a  floured  board.  Twist  it  round,  joining  the  edges 
with  a  little  egg.  Brush  well  with  the  beaten  egg.  Mark 
with  a  knife  or  fork.  Slip  on  to  a  floured  tia  and  bake 
20  minutes  in  a  quick"  oven  till  a  nice  brown. 

The  border  may  be  placed  in  the  oven  without  brushing 
over  with  egg,  and  just  heated  through  without  colouring. 

REFORM   CUTLETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Neck  Outlets,  prepared  as        Reform   Sauce. 

for  Mutton  Cutlets.  Eeforjn  Cramish. 

Potato  Border. 

REFORM   GARNISH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  table-spoonfuls  cooked  2  taMe-spoonfuls  Gherkins. 

White  of  Egg.  2  table-spoonfuls  Mushroomsi 

2  table-spoonfuls  cooked  2  table-spoonfuls  Eeform 

Ham.  Sauce. 

Shred  all  finely  and  place  on  a  plate,  keeping  each 
kind  separate.  Cover  with  another  plate,  place  in  the 
oven  for  10  minutes  to  make  hot.  When  hot,  mix  with  a 
little  sauce  and  place  in  the  centre  of  cutlets.  Fry  the 
cutlets  a  nice  brown  in  hot  fat.      Dish  on  a  potato  border. 


116  HOUSEEOLD  COOKEET —  MEAT. 

Pour  Reform  Sauce  round  and  place  Reform  Garnish  in 
the  centre  of  cutlets. 
RefoHn  Sauce  (see  page  245). 

PORK   CUTLETS. 

Ingredientg. — 1  or  2  lbs.  tHn  end  of  Iioin  of  Pork. 

Prepare  as  for  mutton  cutlets,  removing  the  bone,  if 
necessary.  Egg  and  crumb  and  fry.  Dish  on  a  bed  of 
mashed  potatoes.  Pour  gravy  round.  Serve  with  Apple 
Sauce  {see  page  239). 

Gravy. 

i  pint  Stock.  J  small  Onion  (chopped). 

4  oz.  Butter.  Good  i  table-spoonful  Flour. 

Salt,  Pepper,  Mustard. 

Fry  the  onion.  Fry  the  flour.  Add  mustard  and 
stock.  Sinuner  all  together  10  to  20  minutes.  Skim, 
season,  and  strain. 

LIVER  A   LA   FRANCAISE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

14  lbs.  Calf's  or  Sheep's  1   dessert-spoonful  Worcester 

liver.  Sauce. 

Some  thin  strips  of  Bacon.  1  oz.  browned  Crumbs  (see 
4  pint  Stock.  page  347). 

Seasoning  Mixture. 

3  table-spoonfuls  2  sprigs  Parsley. 

Breadcrumbs.  Salt,  Pepper,  Nutmeg. 

1  small  Onion.  A  little  Egg. 

Slice,  wash,  and  dry  the  liver.  Lay  slices  on  a  well- 
greased  dripping-tin,  put  some  of  the  seasoning  mixture 
on  each  piece  and  a  piece  of  fat  bacon  on  top  of  that. 
Pour  in  water  or  stock.  Cook  slowly  in  a  moderate  . 
oven  till  tender,  about  30  minutes.  Place  neatly  on  a 
hot  dish,  add  Worcester  Sauce  to  the  gravy,  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  pour  round  liver.  Sprinkle  browned 
crumbs  on  bacon. 


HOVSEBOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT.  117 

VEAL   CUTLETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  VeaJ  Cutlet.  Little  grated  Lemon  Bind. 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  Yolk  of  Egg. 

1  dessert-spoonful  otopped  Seasoning. 

Paisley.  Bashers  of  Bacon. 

Egg  and  Breadcrumbs.  Brown  or  Tomato  Sauce. 
Vegetables  to  garnish. 

Wipe  the  meat  and  cut  into  rounds  about  J  inch  thick. 
Dip  in  mixture  of  yolk  of  egg,  melted  butter,  parsley  and 
seasoning  and  lemon  rind.  Coat  with  egg  and  crumb. 
Fry  in  saute  pan.  Roll  up  the  rashers  and  cook.  Serve 
the  outlets  on  a  ring  of  mashed  potatoes;  put  a  roll  of 
bacon  on  each  cutlet.  Put  peas  or  some  suitable  vegetable 
in  centre  and  pour  the  sauce  round.      Garnish  with  bacon. 

N.B. — Instead  of  above  coating,  egg  and  crumbs,  to 
which  seasoning  (chopped  parsley  and  grated  lemon  rind) 
has  been  added,  may  be  used. 


FRIED    SWEETBREADS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Sweetbread.  Onion  stuck  with  doves. 

Seasoned  Flour.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs. 

Blanch  the  sweetbread.  Then  stew  in  stock,  with  the 
onion,  until  tender.  Press  it,  dip  in  seasoned  flour,  coat 
with  egg  and  crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  a  golden-brown 
colour.       Serve  on  a  fancy  paper  with  fried  parsley. 


KIDNEYS   AND    BACON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Kidneys.  6  slices  of  Bacon. 

2  or  3  Tomatoes. 

Fry  the  bacon  lightly  and  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  finishes  the  cooking  while  the  kidneys  are  being  fried. 


118  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEET —  MEAT. 

Split,  wash  and  dry  the  kidneys.  Skin  them  and  remove 
the  core  of  fat.  Fry  kidneys  in  the  fat  left  from  the 
baeon.  Slice  the  tomatoes  and  fry  them.  Season. 
Arrange  kidneys  in  the  centre,  then  the  bacon  round,  and 
the  tomatoes  as  a  garnish.  Pour  the  remaining  fat,  etc., 
from  the  pan  round., 

BAKING. 

TO   BAKE   A   HAM. 

Soak  overnight  in  cold  water  if  necessary — depending 
on  length  of  time  since  curing.  Encase  in  paste  (elastic 
consistency)  of  flour  and  water.  Seal  edges  carefully. 
Make  some  dripping  hot  in  a  tin.  Put  in  the  ham  and 
baste  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  paste 
begins  to  crack.  Average  time — ^30  minutes  per  lb.  and 
30  minutes  over.  Remove  hard  crust  and  rind  of  ham. 
Dredge  with  bread  raspings  or  glaze.  Garnish  with  cloves 
if  liked. 

CUTLETS   A   LA  ZINGARA. 

INGREDIENTS. 

5  Outlets.  Tomato  Sauce. 

Purfie  of  Green  Peas.  Potato  Border. 

Saw  off  the  chine  bone.  Remove  the  leaf  fat.  Divide 
into  cutlets;  trim.  Lard,  if  liked.  Place  on  a  buttered 
tin.  Pour  a  little  salad  oil  or  melted  butter  over.  Season 
with  cayenne  and  salt.  CJover  with  buttered  paper  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes.  Drain  the  fat  off 
and  coat  with  thick  tomato  sauce.  Decorate  with  truffle. 
Serve  with  a  piped  puree  of  green  peas  and  thin  tomato 
sauce  round. 

Tomato  Sauce  (see  page  246). 

Green  Pea  Puree  (see  page  158). 


SOUSEEOLD  C00KEB7  —  MEAT.  119 

SOUBISE   CUTLETS. 

Ingredients. — 5  Cutlets. 

Trim,  lay  on  buttered  tin,  season  with  salad  oil,  coralline 
pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  butter  paper.  Bake  in 
rather  quick  oven  15  minutes. 

Sauce  for  Coating. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Clear  Stock.  J  oz.  Liebig. 

i  oz.  Arrowroot.  Little  chopped  Onion. 

Pinch  Ground  Mint.  1  wine  glass  Sherry. 
2  drops  Carmine. 

Simmer  at  least  ten  minutes.  Thicken  with  arrowroot. 
Season,  strain.       Reheat,  and  use. 

Coat  cooked  cutlets  with  brown  sauce  or  glaze.  Arrange 
on  a  piled  puree  of  peas  and  potatoes.  Place  on  cutlet 
frills.      Pour  Soubise  Sauce  round  the  dish  {see  page  244). 

Green  Pea  Puree  (see  page  158). 


VEAL   CAKE    (1). 

INGREDIENTS. 

Allow  1  lb.  Ham  to  1  lb.  2  hard-boiled  Eggs. 

Veal.  Seasoning  and  riavouring. 

Cut  the  veal  (fillet  is  best)  into  slices.  Butter  a  deep 
pie-dish ;  place  in  veal,  ham  and  eggs  cut  in  slices.  Season 
each  layer,  and,  if  liked,  sprinkle  on  a  few  herbs.  Pour 
over  some  water  or  stock;  cover  with  an  old  ashet  or  dish. 
Bake  in  oven  till  quite  cooked.  When  cooked,  take  out; 
place  weight  on  top,  and  when  quite  cold,  turn  out  and 
garnish.  If  liked,  ham  and  hard-boiled  eggs  may  be 
arranged  as  a  decoration  in  the  bottom.  This  may  be 
done  in  a  round  plain  cake  tin,  using  cold  veal,  cold  ham 
and  eggs,  pouring  some  melted  jellied  stock  over,  allowing 
to  become  set,  and  turning  out. 


120  SOUSEBOLD  C00KES7  —  MEAT. 

VEAL   CAKE    (2), 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Veal  (minced).  Ldttle  chopped  Onion   (if 
i  lb.  minced-  Ham  or  J  lb.  liked). 

of  Sausage  Meat  or  i  lb.  ♦     Little  Egg  to  moisten. 
Pickled  Pork.  Little  Stock  to  moisten. 

2  teacupfuls  Breadcrumbs.         Salt,  Pepper. 

Little  chopped  Parsley.  Hard-boiled  Egg  to  garnish. 

Mix  all  ingredients,  except  hard-boiled  egg,  and  press 
into  buttered  and  garnished  mould.  Bake  in  oven  in 
tin  of  water,  1  to  2  hours,  with  lid  and  weight  on  top. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

N.B. — Small  moulds  may  be  made,  or  if  cold,  may  serve 
sliced;  if  hot,  with  brown  sauce. 


STEAK  AND   KIDNEY   PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Pie  Steak.  Little  Water. 

1  Sheep's  Kidney.  i   lb.  Flaky  Pastry  or 

1  table-spoonful  Flour.  Bough  Puff  (see  pages  301 

1  teaspoonful  Salt.  and  303). 

i  teaspoonful  Pepper. 

Remove  fat  and  cut  into  dice.  Cut  the  meat  into  neat 
strips;  skin  and  halve  the  kidney  and  wash  well,  then 
cut  into  dice.  Dip  the  meat  into  the  seasoned  flour 
(flour,  salt  and  pepper  in  proportions  as  given  above). 
Plaoe  a  piece  ^f  kidney  and  a  piece  of  fat  on  each  strip 
of  meat  and  roll  up.  Pack  in  a  pie-dish;  half -fill  with 
water.  Roll  out  the  pastry,  wet  the  edges  of  the  pie-dish, 
and  line  with  a  strip  of  pastry.  Wet  the  lined  edge, 
cover  with  the  crust.  Make  a  hole  in  the  centre.  Trim 
and  flake  the  edges,  brush  the  top  with  egg,  and  ornament 
with  leaves.  Brush  the  leaves  with  beaten  egg.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  the  first  half  hour,  then  lower  the  heat 
and  continue  baking  another  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  the 
meat  is  tender.      Till  up  with  hot,  seasoned  stock. 


PLATE    4, 

1. 

Leg  (or  Shin) 

2. 

Round. 

3, 

Aitch  Bone. 

4, 

Rump. 

5. 

Thick  Flank. 

6. 

Nap  or  Shin. 

7. 

Plate. 

8. 

Sticking  Piece. 

9. 

Shoulder. 

10. 

Neck  Part. 

11. 

Leg  or  Shin. 

12. 

Thick  Flank. 

13. 

Rump. 

14. 

Round. 

15. 

Aitch  Bone. 

16. 

Fore  Shin. 

CUTS  OF  BEEF  (2). 


Alex.M^cNEit 


BOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  MEAT.  121 

VEAL   AND    HAM    PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flaky  Pastry.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  lb.  Veal  Cutlet.  Pineh  of  Herbs  (if  liked). 

1  or  2  hard-boiled  Eggs.  Grated  Lemon  Bind  and 

J  lb.  Fat  Bacon  or  Ham.  Mace. 

Cut  the  veal  in  2-inch  pieces;  place  a  layer  in  a  pie- 
dish,  and  then  a  layer  of  bacon;  then  seasoning,  mace 
and  lemon  rind.  Fill  up  in  this  fashion.  Place  hard- 
boiled  eggs  on  top,  after  cutting  them  in  4  or  8  pieces. 
Half-fill  the  pie-dish  with  stock  or  water.  Cover  as  for 
steak  and  kidney  pie,  and  bake  at  first  in  a  hot  oven 
to  cook  the  crust,  and  a  more  moderate  one  after,  to  cook 
the  meat.  Average  time,  1  hour  and  20  minutes.  Fill 
up  with  good  stock  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 


RABBIT   PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Rabbit.  Forcemeat  Balls  (see 
i  lb.  Ham.  page  252). 

2  hard-boiled  Eggs.  i  lb.  Bough  Puff  or  Short 
Flour,  Pepper,  and  Salt.  Crust. 

Cut  the  rabbit  and  ham  into  small  pieces  and  the  eggs 
into  quarters.  Dip  the  pieces  of  rabbit  into  flour, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  them  in  butter 
or,  dripping.  Place  them  in  a  pie-dish  with  the  force- 
meat balls,  hard-boiled  eggs  and  ham.  Add  enough  stock 
to  rather  more  than  half-fill  the  dish.  Cover  with  pastry. 
Bake  for  two  hours. 

N,B. — Chicken  pie  made  similarly,  omitting  forcemeat. 


122  HOUSEHOLD  COOEEBT —MEAT. 

PIGEON   PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  Pigeons.  1  table-spoonful  Flour. 

1  lb.  Beef  Steak.  4  Yolks  of  hard-boiled  Egga. 
Bay  Leaf.  Puff  Pastry  {see  page  303). 
Thyme.  Good  Gravy  or  Stock  (made 
Shallot   (chopped).  with  poultry  trimmings  or 
Pepper  and  Salt.  giblets). 

2  ozs.  Butter. 

Prepare,  singe,  and  draw  pigeons.  Cut  them  in  half, 
or,  if  large,  into  quarters.  Cut  the  steak  into  small 
pieces.  Season  with  chopped  bay  leaf,  thyme,  shallot, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Fry  lightly  in  the  butter,  sprinkle 
over  the  "flour.  Put  all  into  a  pie-dish,  cut  the  yolks  of 
eggs  in  halves  and  put  on  the  top.  Pour  in  enough 
good  gravy  to  half-fill  the  dish,  cover  with  puff  pastry. 
Bake  about  two  hours.  If  the  pie  is  to  be  eaten  cold, 
after  taking  it  out  of  the  oven,  fill  the  dish  with  some 
good  stock  or  gravy  in  which  some  gelatine  has  been 
dissolved. 

Scald  and  scrape  feet  and  use  as  decoration  on  top 
of  pie. 

RAISED    PORK   PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Hot  Water  Crust  Pie  Pilling, 

(plain)  {see  page  304). 

Take  two-thirds  of  the  dough,  lay  aside  the  rest  and 
keep  warm.  Knead  the  large  piece  evenly,  shape  with 
the  hands  into  a  hollow  pie.  When  raised  enough,  fill 
with  the  seasoned  meat,  pressing  it  well  down.  Add  1 
to  2  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  wet  the  edges  of  the  crust 
and  cover  with  the  remaining  pa|Stry,  kneaded  and  rolled 
into  a  lid.  Trim  and  decorate;  brush  over  with  egg. 
Bake  according  to  size,  about  1  hour  if  two  pies  are 
made  out  of  this  quantity.  When  ready,  pour  in  a  little 
seasoned  stock.       Serve  hot  or  cold. 


BOUSEHOLD  COOKEEY  —  MEAT.  123 

Filling  for  Pie. 

1  lb.  Fresh  Pork.  J  teaspoonful  Pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  Salt.  J  teaspoonful  Dried  Sage. 

Cut  the  meat  into  very  small  pieces.  Season.  Put 
any  rind  and  bone  in  a^pot  and  boil  for  stock. 

GAME    PIE    (a). 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  Hare.  30  Peppercorns. 

1  Rabbit.  Bunch  Herbs. 

1  Pheasant.  Blade  Mace. 

2  Onions.  Seasoning. 
6  Cloves.  Stock. 

Clean  the  hare  and  rabbit.  Cut  into  joints.  If  liked, 
the  flUet  and  legs  may  be  larded.  Truss  the  pheasant 
as  for  roasting.  Remove  head  and  legs  to  the  drumstick. 
Place  in  a  stew-jar.  Cover  with  stock.  Add  onions, 
herbs,  and  simmer  for  2  hours  or  until  the  meat  leaves 
•the  bones  freely.  Remove  meat  from  the  bones.  Pack 
nice  pieces  in  a  game  pie-dish.  Pound  the  small  pieces 
with  the  cooked  liver  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Season, 
spread  a  layer  on  each  piece  of  meat.  Sprinkle  with 
salt.       Fill  up  with  stock,  and  when  cold,  serve. 

N.B. — If  no  game  pie-dish  can  be  had,  use  a  raised  pie 
or  short  crust  baked  in  a  mould.  A  blade  of  garlic 
may  be  scraped  into  stock,  if  liked. 

Crust. 

J  lb.  Flour.  Pinch  Salt. 

8  ozs.  Butter.  Cold  Water. 

1  Egg. 

Make  into  short  pastry.  Take  two-thirds  and  roll  out 
in  a  strip.  Line  the  sides  of  a  greased  pie-mould  with 
it.  Then  roll  out  the  remaining  piece  and  line  the 
bottom  of  the  mould.  Line  the  crust  with  buttered  paper, 
having  the  buttered  side  next  the  pastry.-  Fill  with  rice. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  till  well  set  and  firm.  Remove  the 
rice.      Replace  in  the  oven  till  the  case  is  thoroughly  dry. 


124  BOVSBBOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

Pastry.  ^^ME    PIE    (b). 

i  lb.  Flour.  Pinch  Salt. 

5  ozs.  Butter.  Water,  if  necessary. 

1  Egg. 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients,  mb  butter  into  flour.  Mix' 
to  a  stiff  paste  with  egg  and  roll  ont. 

Contents. 

2  Pigeons  or  1  Pheasant.  2  ozs.  Cooked  Ham  and 
Mesh  of  1  Babbit.  Tongue. 

6  Mushrooms.  Pepper  and  Salt. 
Truffle.  a  table-spoonfuls  Water. 
Pistachios.  Aspic  for  garnishing. 
Hard-boiled  Yolk. 

In  Lining  Tin.- — Cut  a  piece  of  paste  for  bottom  and 
a  piece  for  top.  Then  cut  strips  for  sides.  Line  sides 
first.  Run  round  edges  at  bottom  with  a  little  egg, 
place  in  bottom  and  join  edges  well.  Cut  meat  into 
small  pieces,  removing  bones,  skin,  etc.  Cut  ham,  tongue, 
yolks,  pistachios,  truffle  and  mushrooms  into  strips.  Mix 
all  well  together.  Season,  and  place  loosely'  in  the  pre- 
pared mould,  piling  Tiigh  in  centre.  Wet  round  edges 
and  place  on  cover.  Make  small  hole  in  centre.  Brush 
lightly  with  egg,  and  cover  entire  top  with  pastry  leaves. 
Tie  a  buttered  paper  round  mould.  Bake  2  hours,  having 
a  hot  oven  at  first.  But  do  not  allow  pastry  to  be  darker 
than  straw  colour. 

In  Serving. — Put  border  of  chopped  aspic  round  and 
leaves  or  blocks  with  parsley  inside  on  top. 

Jelly  to  fill  Pie  when  Cooked. — Fry  the  game  bones 
in  a  little  butter.  Add  water  or  stock  and  reduce  to 
1  gill.  Strain  and  cool.  Remove  fat.  Add  3  sheets 
gelatine.  When  almost  set,  pour  jelly  into  pie  just 
before  serving. 

VOL-AU-VENT  OF  SWEETBREADS. 

Puff  pastry  vol-au-vent  case  as  for  vol-au-vent  of  apples 
{see  page  205). 


BOV BEHOLD  C00KEB7  —  MEAT.  125 

SWEETBREAD    MIXTURE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  or  2  Calf 's  Sweetbreads  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

(cooked).  li  ozs.  Flour, 

li  ozs.  Butter.  J  pint  White  Stock. 

Squeeze  of  Liemon  Juice.  J  prat  Milk  and  Cream. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  then  the  stock,  milk, 
and  cream  gradually.  Stir  till  boiling.  Cook  well,  then 
add  the  sweetbreads  cut  in  dice,  and,  if  liked,  1  dozen 
mushrooms  (buttons)  or  truffle  (first  cook  the  mushrooms 
10  to  15  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  which  lemon  juice 
has  been  added).  Add  seasonings  and  flavourings,  and  fill 
vol-au-vent  case  with  the  mixture. 

N.B. — To  cook  the  sweetbreads.  Blanch,  then  wash  in 
cold  water.  Place  in  a  stewpan  with  i  pint  of  milk,  piece 
of  onion,  lemon  rind,  and  a  bouquet  of  herbs.  Simmer 
till  tender.       While  hot,  remove  the  dark  skin. 

CASSEROLE  OF  FOWL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Boiling  Fowl.  Stock. 
Seasoned  Flour.  Few  Mushrooms. 

2  ozs.  Butter. 

Draw  and  divide  the  fowl  into  pieces  suitable  for  serving, 
making  2  portions  of  each  leg.  Dip  each  piece  in  seasoned 
flour  and  fry  in  the  butter  until  pale  brown.  Arrange 
neatly  in  a  casserole,  and  add  stock  to  a  depth  of  1". 
Cover  and  put  into  a  hot  oven  until  the  liquid  boils.  Reduce 
the  heat  and  cook  gently  until  the  fowl  is  tender  when 
tested  with  a  skewer.  The  time  will  depend  on  the  age  of 
the  fowl,  but  an  average  time  is  2i  hours. 

Peel  mushrooms  and  add  to  the  casserole  J  hour  before 
serving. 

Serve  sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

N.B. — Young  chickens  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way  and 
require  i  to  1  hour  to  cook. 


126  MOVSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  MEAT. 

CASSEROLE  OF  RABBIT. 

Cook  as  for  Casserole  of  Fowl.  The  joints  should  be 
blanched  before  dipping  in  seasoned  flour,  and  2  thinly 
sliced  onions  browned  in  the  frying-pan,  added  to  casserole. 

Young  rabbits  require  about  1  hour's  cooking  and  older 
ones  about  2  hours. 


COLD  MEAT  DISHES. 

MEAT   PATTIES. 

INGREDIENTS. 
J  lb.  Pastry  (flaky).  2  or  3  spoonfuls  Stock  or 

J  lb.  Cooked  Meat  (chopped).         Gravy. 
2  table-spoonfuls  Seasoning. 

Breadcrumbs.  Flavouring  suitable  for  Meat. 

Mix  the  meat,  breadcrumbs,  stock,  seasoning,  arid 
flavourings  together;  season  well.  Roll  out  the  pastry, 
and  cut  into  round  a  size  larger  than  the  patty  tins. 
Put  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  into  each  and  wet  the 
edges,  put  on  tops,  brush  over  with  beaten  "egg.  Cut 
a  slit  on  the  top  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  to  25 
minutes. 

RUSSIAN   PIE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cold  Meat.  2  hard-boiled  Eggs. 

2  ozs.  Boiled  Eiee.  Lemon  Juice. 

2  teaspooifuls  Curry  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Powder.  J  lb.  Flaky  Pastry.     , 
1  or  2  table-spoonfuls 

Stock. 

Cut  off  piece  of  pastry  to  decorate.  Roll  out  the  re- 
mainder, cut  in  a  square,  wet  the  edges.  Mix  all  the 
ingredients  for  filling.  Season  well.  Place  on  one  half 
of  the  pastry;  place  a  layer  of  egg  on  top,  fold  over 
pastry,  decorate,  brush  with  egg.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
35  to  40  minutes. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MEAT.  127 

ROMAN    PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Eebbit  or  Fowl.  3  ozs.  grated  Parmesan 

2  ozs.  Macaroni.  Cheese  or  Cheddar  Cheese. 
Very  small  piece  Shallot  or        J  gill  Tomato  Pulp. 

Onion.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Cut  the  boiled  rabbit  or  fowl  into  thin  slices;  boil  the 

macaroni  in  water  till  tender,  and  cut  into  short  lengths. 

Mince  the  shallots  of  onions  finely ;  mix  all  the  ingredients 

well  together.       Make  a  short  crust  of  the  following :  — 

i  lb.  Flour.  Small  pinch  Salt. 

i  lb.  Butter.  Enough  cold  Water  to  mix. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  till  like  fine  breadcrumbs. 

Add  salt  and  enongh  cold  water  to  mix  to  a  firm  paste. 

Well  grease,  and  sprinkle  a  plain  cake-tin  with  crushed 

vermicelli,  then  roll  out  the  pastry  and  line  the  prepared 

tin  with   it,   keeping   back  sufiicient   for  the   lid.       Fill 

with   the  mixture   and    place   the   top   on.       Bake   in   a 

quick  oven  for  about  1  hour.       Turn  out,  and  serve  with 

a  good  white  or  tomato  sauce  round. 

RISSOLES    IN   PASTE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  OZS.  Cooked  Meat.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

i  oz.  Butter.  2  ozs.  Short  Pastry. 

J  oz.  Flour.  Egg. 

i  gill  Stock.  Breadcrumbs. 

i  boiled  Onion. 

Make  a  panada  o£  butter,  flour,  and  stock.  Add  the 
meat  and  onion,  finely  chopped,  and  seasoning.  Mix 
well.  Spread  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Roll  out  the  pastry 
very  thinly.  Place  1  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  on  it 
at  regular  intervals,  wet  roimd  the  edges,  fold  the  pastry 
over,  and  fasten  the  edges  securely.  Cut  out  in  rounds 
of  half  moons.  Egg  and  crumb.  Fry  in  hot  fat. 
Garnish  with  fried  parsley.       Serve  on  a  dish-paper. 

N.B. — Method  as  in  Chicken  Rissoles  may  be  used 
if  liked. 


128  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

CHICKEN   RISSOLES. 

INGREDIENTS. 
2  ozs.  cold  Chicken.  i  oz.  Flour. 

2  or  3  Mushrooms.  i  gill  Stock. 

4  oz.  Butter.  Seasoning. 

1  table-spoonful  Cream.  Pastry, 

i  oz.  Lean  Ham. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  very  small  dice,  and  mince  th* 
ham  and  mushrooms.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  butter, 
flour,  and  stock.  Boil  well;  then  take  off  the  saucepan 
from  the  Are.  Add  the  chicken,  ham,  mushrooms,  cream, 
seasoning,  and  a  squeeze  lemon  juice.  Turn  the  mixture 
on  to  a  dish  to  cool.  Boll  out  some  scraps  of  puff  or 
short  pastry  very  thinly,  cut  into  round  with  a  cutter, 
and  wet  the  edges  with  egg.  Put  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  mixture 
on  each,  fold  them  over  and^  press  well  together.  Brush 
over  with  egg,  shake  in  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown  in  hot  fat.  Serve  on  a  dish-paper  and  garnish 
with  fried  parsley. 

MEAT   CROQUETTES. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Scraps  of  Meat.  J  table-spoonful  Parsley. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Seasoning. 

1  oz.  Flour.  Worcester  Sauce  or 
1  gill  Stock.  Ketchup. 

Chop  the  meat  finely.  Melt  the  butter;  add  the  flour 
and  stock;  stir  till  it  boils.  Add  the  meat,  seasoning  and 
ketchup;  turn  on  to  a  plate  to  cool.  Form  into  rolls, 
when  cold.  Egg,  crumb  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain, 
serve  on  a  dish-paper  or  with  nicely-seasoned  gravy  round. 

N.B. — If  liked,  these  may  be  rolled  in  vermicelli  instead 
of  crumbs.  * 

DURHAM   CUTLETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cold  Meat.  i  parboiled  Onion. 

1  oz.  Butter.  little  chopped  Parsley. 

1  oz.  Flour.  Salt,  Cayenne,  Pepper. 

1  gill  Stock.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs. 


HOUSEUOLD  COOKERY  — MEAT.  129 

Chop  the  meat  and  onion  finely.  Melt  the  butter  in 
a  pan;  add  flour,  then  stock,  and  cook  thoroughly.  Add 
meat,  onion,  seasoning,  and  mix  well  together.  Turn 
-  out  on  plate  to  cool.  Divide  into  four  and  shape  into 
cutlets.  Egg  and  crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Garnish 
with,  fried  parsley. 

N.B. — Fish  cutlets  may  be  made  similarly,  using  J  lb. 
fish  to  the  above  quantity  of  panada. 

Alternately,  if  the  meat  and  onion  are  minced  and 
chopped  very  finely,  flour  may  substitute  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs for  ooating. 

VEAL   AND    HAM    SHAPE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  sliced  Fillet  of  Veal.        Grated  Lemon  Bind, 
i  lb.  Ham.  Ground  Mace. 

Salt  and  Pepper. 

Grease  a  small  souffle  tin,  arrange  sliced  egg  on  the 
bottom.  rill  in  with  veal  and  ham  in  layers.  Sprinkle 
each  layer  with  seasoning,  mace  and  lemon.  Steam  for 
at  least  1  hour.  Fill  up  with  jellied  stock.  Place  a 
weight  on  top,  serve  when  cold  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  which 
has  been  sprinkled  with  a  mixture  of  lemon  and  vinegar 
with  seasoning  added. 

BREAD    PATTIES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  cold  Chicken  or  }  lb.  Veal.      1  oz.  Butter. 

2  ozs.  Cooked  Ham.  1  oz.  Flour. 

1  gill  Stock.  Squeeze  Iiemon  Juice. 

I  pint  Cream.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

6  Mushrooms.  Bread. 

Cut   the   bread   2   inches   thick,   then    cut  into  rounds, 

2  inches  in  diameter,  and  cut  each  round  half-way  through 

with  the  cutter.       Remove  bread  from  the  centre.       Dip 

the  rounds  in  cream  and  drain  thoroughly.       Brush  over 

with  beaten  egg  and  toss  in  crumbs,  and  fry  a  golden 

brown.       Fill  with  the  mixture  as  follows : — 

I 


130  SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

Make  sauce  from  the  flour,  butter,  and  stock,  and  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  cream.  Add  the  chicken  or  veal  cut 
in  dice,  ham  and  mushrooms  minced.  Season.  Heat 
through,  pile  in  patties.      Garnish  and  serve  very  hot. 

SCALLOPED   SWEETBREADS. 

Press  cooked  sweetbread,  cut  in  rounds,  coat  all  over  with 
thick  Bechamel  sauce,  coat  twice  with  egg  and  breadcrumbs. 
Fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve. on  hot  potato  border.  Force  a 
rosette  of  potato  on  each  piece  of  sweetbread.  Place  a 
pea  on  each  rosette.  Thin  down  sauce  with  milk  or 
cream,  serve  round  and  place  more  peas  at  each  end  of 
gerving  dish. 

CASSOLETS   OF   SWEETBREAD. 

Make  potato  cases  using  recipe  for  potato  croquettes. 
Egg  and  crumb  twice,  fry  in  deep  fat.  Scoop  out  inside 
reserving  top  to  replace.  Fill  with  HoUandaise  sauce 
and  cooked  sweetbread  cut  in  dice.  Pile  peas  on  top  and 
replace  top  which  was  removed. 

CHICKEN   CREAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4-6  ozs.  Chicken,  Babbit  or  1  Egg. 

Veal  flesh.  1  Yolk. 

J  oz.  Butter.  1  gill  double  Cream, 

i  oz.  Flour.  Salt,  Pepper,  Nutmeg. 
1  gill  Stock  or  Milk. 

Mince  the  flesh  twice  then  sieve.  Make  a  sauce  with 
butter,  flour  and  liquid — cool.  Add  prepared  flesh,  season- 
ing, egg  and  yolk.  When  well  mixed  add  whipped  cream. 
Put  into  buttered  mould  or  moulds.  Steam  very  slowly. 
(Large  mould  20-30  minutes — small  moulds  about  10 
minutes.)  Cook  very  slowly.  Coat  with  a  good  sauce. 
Bechamel,  Dutch  or  Veloute. 


HOVSEEOLD  COOKEEY  —  MEAT.  131 

KROMESKIES   OF   CHICKEN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  02S.  Cooked  Chicken.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

i  oz.  Butter.  Lemon  Rind. 

I  oz.  Flour.  Mace. 

About  i  gill  Stock.  Frying  Batter  {see  'page  254). 

1  table-spoonful  Cream.  TMn  strips  of  Bacon. 

Chop  the  chicken  finely.  Make  a  panada  with  the 
flour,  butter,  and  stock;  add  chicken,  seasoning,  and  cream. 
Turn  on  to  a  plate  to  cool.  When  cold,  take  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  mixture,  place  on  a  strip  of  bacon.  Roll 
the  bacon  round.  Dip  in  the  coating  batter  and  fry  in 
very  hot  fat.  Drain,  serve  at  once  on  a  dish-paper,  and 
garnish  with  coralline  pepper  and  fried  parsley. 

SWEETBREADS    IN   CASES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Sweetbread.  i  doz.  Button  Mushrooms, 

li  ozs.  Flour.  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Cayenne, 

li  ozs.  Butter.  Squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

i  pint  Cream.  Cases  of  Potato  or  Butter. 
J  pint  well-flavoured  Stock. 

Blanch  and  trim  the  sweetbread.  Wrap  in  buttered 
paper  and  fry  in  about  1  oz.  butter,  then  add  stock. 
Simmer  gently  till  the  sweetbread  is  tender;  allow  to  be- 
come cold.  Strain  the  stock.  Boil  the  mushrooms  in 
water  and  lemon  juice  10  minutes.  Cut  the  mushrooms 
in  four  and  the  sweetbread  in  dice.  Make  white  sauce 
with  butter,  flour,  and  stock.  Add  cream  and  the  sweet- 
bread dice,  mushrooms,  lemon  juice,  and  seasonings.  Fill 
the  cases  with  the  mixture.  Add  green  peas  as  a  garnish. 
Serve  as  hot  entree. 

POTATO   CASES. 

Mixture  as  for  potato  border.  Roll  out  on  a  floured 
board.  Cut  in  pieces  about  two  inches  long.  Egg  and 
crumb  and  fry.      Cut  off  top  and  scoop  out  the  inside. 

BUTTER   CASES. 

Roll  the  butter  into  the  desired  size.  Brush  with  beaten 
egg  and  toss  in  crumbs.      Repeat  the  process,  if  necessary. 


132  BOUSESOLD  COOKEBT —  MEAT. 

Fry  in  hot  fat.      Cut  off  the  top.       Pour  out  the  liquid 
butter  and  use. 

CASSEROLE   OF   MEAT. 

INGEEDIENTS. 
6   or  8  Potatoes    (steamed        1  oz.  Butter. 

and  mashed  whilst  hot).         i  Egg. 
Mince  of  cold  or  fresh  Meat.     Seasoning. 

Mix  well  together  the  potatoes,  egg,  and  melted  butter. 
Grease  a  small  cake-tin  thickly  with  melted  dripping  and 
line  it  well  with  browned  crumbs.  Press  the  potato 
mixture  in  the  bottom  of  the  tin  and  line  it  evenly  all 
round  sides.  Trim  the  edges  neatly  and  brush  over  inside 
with  beaten  egg.  Bake  in  a  sharp  oven  20  minutes. 
Turn  out  carefully,  first'  allowing  it  to  shrink  a  little,  and 
quickly  reverse.  Fill  up  with  the  mince.  Garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

COLD   MEAT   CURRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 
i  pint  Curry  Sauce  (see  page  246). 
i  lb.  cold  Meat  or  Chicken  or  Babbit. 
3  ozs.  Boiled  Rice.  ,  , 

Cut  the  meat  into  neat  pieces,  and  chicken  or  rabbit 
into  neat  joints.  Have  some  sauce  well  simmered,  add 
meat,  heat  through  very  slowly;  serve  as  for  fresh  curry. 

POTTED   MEAT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Steak.  J  pint  Water. 

2  Cloves.  J  lb.  Butter. 

Salt  and  Pepper.  If  liked.  Anchovy  Essence. 

Remove'  the  skin  and  fat  from  the  meat.  Cut  into 
2-inch  squares.  Stew  vsrith  the  cloves  and  water  (in  a 
jar),  simmering  till  tender.  When  cold,  pass  twice  through 
a  mincing  machine.  Add  melted  butter,  little  gravy, 
seasoning  and  essence.  Ppund  weU.  Place  in  jars  or 
pots,  pour  over  some  clarified  butter. 

N.B. — ^A  little  fried  ham  added  to  the  meat  is  a  great 
improvement. 


HOUSESOLD  COOKEBT  —  MEAT.  133 

FRICASSEE   OF   CHICKEN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Cooked  Ohieken.  i  pint  Water. 

1  Onion.  J   pint  Milk. 

Small  piece  Carrot.  6  Peppereoms. 

Bunch  of  Herbs.  2  strips  Lemon  Rind. 
1  table-spoonful  Cream. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  joints.  Remove  the  skin.  Put 
the  bones  and  skin  into  a  pan  with  the  water,  milk,- 
vegetables,  and  seasoning;  simmer  1  hour. 

Make  a  sauce  with  the  following  ingredients : — 

li   ozs.  Butter.  J  pint  Stock  in  which  the 

li  ozs.  Flour.  Chicken  has  been  cooked. 

Seasoning. 

Cook  well.  Add  joints  of  chicken  and  heat  through. 
Dish  chicken  in  a  pile  on  a  fried  croute.  Add  the  eream 
and  lemon  juice  to  the  sauce.  Strain  over.  Garnish 
with  croutons  of  fried  bread  and  parsley. 

CHICKEN   VICTORIA. 

Leg- joints  of  cooked  chicken,  boned  carefully  and  filled 
with  oatmeal  stuffing.  Wrap  a  piece  of  ham  round  each 
joint,  and  cook  carefully  in  prepared  tomato  sauce. 
Serve  each  joint  on  a  croute  of  fried  bread,  arranging 
neatly  on  a  hot  entree  dish,  and  coat  the  whole  with 
tomato  sauce.       Pipe  on  garnish  of  green  pea  pur^e. 

Stuffing. 

1  oz.  Oatmeal.  i  teaspoonful  chopped 

1   teaspoonful   chopped  Parsley. 

Onion.  Seasoning. 

1  table-spoonful  melted 

Margarine  or  Dripping. 

Mix  all  together. 

Puree.  ' 

1  cooked  Potato.  J  table-spoonful  cooked  Peas. 

Put  through  hair  sieve,  season  and  make  hot. 


134  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  GAME. 

GAME. 

GAME   SEASONS. 

Grouse,  -         -  12th  August  to  10th  December. 

Blackcock  and  Ptarmigan,  20th  August  to  10th  December. 

Partridges,  1st  September  to  1st  February. 

Wild    Duck,    Teal,    Widgeon,  September  to  February. 

Pheasants,  -        -  1st  October  to  1st  February. 

Woodcock,  Snipe,  )  -kt        x.      ^     -mt     -u 

'        ,       f   -  November  to  March. 

Plovers,  Larks,    ) 

Quails,  March  to  July. 

Hares,  September  to  March. 

Doe  Venison,  October  to  December. 

Buck  Venison,  June  to  September. 

Game  should  be  hung  in  a  cool  dry  place.  It  is  hung 
for  some  time  to  make  it  ripe,  or  "  high,"  but  should  never 
have  an  unpleasant  smell.  Water-fowl,  auch  as  wild  duck, 
teal,  widgeon,  etc.,  should  not  hang  more  than  a  day. 

When  the  breast  feathers  come  out  easUy  it  is  a  sign  that 
the  bird  is  ready  for  plucking. 

For  pheasants,  another  test  is  when  the  blood  drops  from 
the  beak.  Pheasants  hang  longer  than  partridges.  Both 
require  to  be  well  cooked.  Game,  as,  a  rule,  should  be 
slightly  underdone. 

WUd  duck  is  always  served  either  with  an  orange  or  lemon 
salad,  or  with  some  accompaniment,  having  orange  or  lemon 
as  the  characteristic  flavour. 

A  salad  is  usually  served  with  game.  Cranberry  sauce 
or  cranberry  jelly  is  frequently  served. 

The  four  usual  adjuncts  for  game  are :  — A  good  brown 
gravy,  bread  sauce,  fried  crumbs,  potato  chips,  water-cress 
being  used  as  a  garnish. 

Woodcock  are  never  drawn,  for  the  trail  is  considered  a 
delicacy  by  gourmets. 


HOUSEHOLD  C00KEB7  —  GAME.,  135 

TO  TELL   WHEN   BIRDS   ARE   YOUNG. 

Grouse,  partridges,  snipe,  quails,  and  ortolans,  when  young, 
have  short,  round  spurs. 

Old  grouse  and  partridges  have  yellow  legs  and  dark  bUls. 
They  are  not  good  for  roasting,  but  may  be  used  for 
salmis,  etc. 

Woodcock,  when  old,  have  pointed  spurs,  and  the  feet  hard 
and  thick;  when  young,  their  spurs  are  blunt. 

When  the  bUls  look  soft  and  unsightly,  and  the  throat 
muddy,  it  is  always  a  sign  that  the  birds  have  been  killed 
long. 

In  venison,  when  young,  the  fat  is  clear  and  bright. 

If  hares  have  sharp  claws,  ears  damp,  and  the  cleft  in 
the  lip  narrow,  it  is  a  sign  that  they  are  young. 

TO   ROAST   VENISON. 

Buck  venison  is  considered  the  finest,  and  is  in  season 
from  June  till  the  end  of  September.  Doe  venison  is 
in  season  from  October  to  December. 

A  haunch  of  venison  takes  from  four  to  five  hours  to 
roast,  according  to  size;  doe  venison  takes  half-an-honr 
less  than  buck  venison.  Venison  should  be  hung  from 
fourteen  to  twenty  days  in  a  dry  larder,  and  be  kept 
well  wiped  with  a  dry  cloth  every  day.  The  fat  should 
-be  clear  and  white  and  the  meat  dark;  the  greater  the 
depth  of  fat,  the  better  the  meat.  Before  putting  the 
haunch  down  to  the  fire,  dry  it  well  and  cover-  it  all  over 
with  a  buttered  paper;  cover  this  with  a  paste  of  flour 
and  water  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick;  lay 
over  this  paste  another  sheet  of  buttered  paper  tied  on 
with  string.  Roast  before  a  good  clear  fire;  baste  the 
joint  with  butter  and  clarified  fat.  About  fifteen  minutes 
before  the  venison  is  finished  roasting,  remove  all  the 
papers  and  the  paste,  and  baste  every  part  of  the  joint 
with  butter;  dredge  it  very  lightly  with  flour,  brown  it 


136  EOVSESOLD  COOKEMY  —  GAME. 

nicely  and  serve  very  hot  with  either  clear  gravy, 
Espagnole  Sauce  or  red  currant  jelly,  or  Chasseur  Sauce 
{see  page  246). 

ROAST   PHEASANTS. 

The  cock  bird  is  considered  the  best;  if  young  he  has 
short  blunt  spurs,  but  if  he  is  old  they  are  long  and  sharp. 
Pheasants  are  in  season  from  1st  October  till  1st  February. 
Pheasants  should  be  hung  until  blood  drops  from  the  beak, 
then  pluck  and  draw  them;  truss  the  same  as  a  fowl  for 
roasting,  but  leave  the  head  on.  Put  a  small  piece  of 
rump  steak  inside  the  bird  (this  helps  to  keep  it  moist 
and,iilaprove  the  flavour) :  leave  the  feet  on,  but  cut  the 
toes  off.  Tie  a  slice  of  fat  bacon  on  the  breast,  or  else 
lard  the  breast;  roast  in  front  of  a  clear  fire,  thirty  minutes 
for  a  young  bird  and  forty  minutes  for  an  old  one. 
Baste  it  with  butter;  just  before  it  is  finished  remove  the 
bacon  from  the  breast,  dredge  "lightly  with  flour,  baste 
with  butter;  this  will  make  a  nice  froth.  Send  to  table 
with  water-cress  round  and  fried  crumbs,  and  serve  good 
brown  gravy  and  bread  sauce. 

ROAST   PARTRIDGES. 

These  birds  are  in  season  from  1st  September  till  1st 
February.  They  should  be  trussed  in  the  same  way  as 
a  pheasant,  and  though  a  smaller  bird,  will  take  nearly 
as  long  to  roast,  because  the  breast  is  plump.  Not  being 
so  dry  a  bird  as  the  pheasant,  omit  the  steak  from  the 
inside.  Serve  on  fried  bread,  with  water-cress  round, 
and  hand  good  gravy  and  bread  sauee. 

GROUSE. 

Grouse  are  prepared  and  served  in  the  same  manner 
as  partridges,  except  that  a  little  butter  should  be  put 


EOVSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  GAME.  137 

inside  them,  and  about  10  minutes  before  they  are  taken 
from  the  fire,  a  piece  of  toast  is  placed  under  the  bird. 
Serve  it  on  the  toast.  Hand  gravy  and  bread  sauce. 
In  season  from  12th  August  to  10th  December. 

WILD   DUCK,  TEAL,   AND   WIDGEON. 

These  birds  are  in  season  from  September  to  February. 
Clean,  siuge,  and  truss  for  roasting.  Brush  the  birds 
over  with  melted  butter,  and  roast  before  a  quick  fire  for 
20  to  30  minutes,  basting  well  all  the  time.  Serve  with 
water-cress  and  lemon.  Hand  Bigarade  Sauce  (see 
page  246). 


138     SOUSESOLD  COOKEBT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

Vegetables, 
Salads  and  Dressings. 

VEGETABLES. 

The  Food  Value  of  Fresh  Vegetables — ^green  and  root — 
is  not  high,  but  they  are  of  importance  in  the  diet  because 
they  supply  a  most  valuable  source  of  mineral  salts, 
extractives  and  vitamins :  carbohydrates  in  varying  pro- 
portions, cellulose,  which  forms  their  frame-work,  and 
water  make  up  the  composition. 

The  aims  in  cooking  are  to  retain  as  many  of  the 
minerals  and  extractives  as  possible,  to  render  the  carbo- 
hydrates digestible  and  to  soften  the  cellulose. 

Seasoning  of  Vegetables. 

Vegetables  cooked  by  any  method,  other  than  boiling, 
require  little,  if  any,  seasoning,  the  natural  salts  contained 
in  them  being  sufficient  to  flavour  them. 

BOILING. 

Vegetables  should  be  cooked  preferably  by  any  o^er 
method  than  boiling,  as  by  this  method,  the  salts,  which 
are  their  chief  value,  are  dissolved  in  the  water  and  lost 
when  the  water  is  drained  off. 

GLOBE   ARTICHOKES. 

Wash  thoroughly.  Cut  ofE  the  stems  and  some  of  the 
lower  leaves,  then  cut  off  the  points  of  all.  Cook  the 
artichokes  in  very  little  fast-boiling  water  and  a  pinch  of 
sugar  for  20  minutes  or  longer,  according  to  size  and  age. 
When  cooked  the  leaves  come  out  readily.  Serve  on  folded 
napkin  with  oiled  butter  or  Hollandaise  Sauce,  handed 
separately. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKE'BT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    139 

BEETROOT. 

In  choosing  beetroot  select  those  which  are  dark  and 
firm,  with  skin  unbroken.  Wash  carefully  without 
nibbing,  as  the  fibres  must  not  be  broken;  if  this  happens 
the  colour  comes  out  in  boiling.  Put  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  boil  from  2  to  3  hours  according  to  size  and 
age  of  the  beetroot.  When  quite  tender,  remove  the 
skin,  cut  into  thick  slices  or  cubes,  and  arrange  in  a 
TOgetable  dish.  White  sauce  may  be  poured  over  or  the 
beetroot  may  be  tossed  in  melted  butter  and  sprinkled  with 
chopped  parsley  before  serving. 

CHICORY    (FRENCH    ENDIVE). 

Wash  and  trim.  Cook  in  fast  boiling  water  until 
tender — usually  about  20  minutes.  Drain  thoroughly,  add 
seasoning  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.      Serve  immediately. 

N.B. — It  may  also  be  stewed  or  cooked  in  butter. 

ONIONS. 

Ciioose  onions  of  an  even  size.  Remove  the  outer  skins 
and  put  the  onions  in  boiling  salted  water.  Boil  steadily, 
but  not  too  quickly,  for  1-lJ  hours.  Drain  thoroughly. 
Serve  with  suitable  sauce  poured  over,  e.g.,  white,  parsley, 
cheese.       Proportion  of  sauce  is  i  pint  to  4  large  onions. 

BOILED    MARROWFAT   PEAS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  marrowfats,  after  adding 
the  contents  of  the  packet  enclosed  with  the  peas.  Add 
1  teaspoonful  salt.  Allow  them  to  soak  for  12  hours. 
Drain  and  wash  them.  Tie  them  loosely  in  muslin  and 
place  them  in  cold  water,  to  which  add  1  table-spoonful 
sugar  and  a  little  mint,  if  procurable.  Bring  to  boiling 
point  and  boil  gently  40  minutes.  Drain,  turn  out  of  the 
cloth,  add  a  little  butter,  if  liked,  season  to  taste  and  serve 
at  once. 


140     HOU^BBOLD  COOKEBT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

GREEN   PEAS. 

Shell  the  peas  and  wash  thoroughly.  Put  in  boiling 
salted  water  (i  table-spoonful  salt  per  quart)  and  add  a 
pinch  of  sugar.  Boil  until  soft  (20-30  minutes)  being 
careful  not  to  allow  the  peas  to  break  by  overcooking  or 
boiling  too  quickly.  Serve  in  a  hot  vegetable  dish  and 
pour  over  a  little  melted  butter. 

A  sprig  of  mint  boiled  with  the  peas  is  an  improvement. 

N.B. — The  pea  pods,  if  in  good  condition,  give  a  good 
flavour  to  a  soup  that  will  be  strained. 

POTATOES. 

Choose  potatoes  as  nearly  the  same  size  as  possible,  so 
that  they  may  be  equally  cooked.  Scrub  them  and  pare 
very  thinly,  or  cook  in  skins.  Put  potatoes  into  pan, 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  add  salt — ^1  table-spoonful  to 
every  quart  of  water.  Boil  slowly  for  30  minutes,  then 
try  with  a  fork  and,  if  nearly  soft,  pour  away  the  water. 
Put  the  pan  at  the  side  of  the  stove  and  steam  the  potatoes 
tUl  dry,  shaking  them  occasionally. 

N.B. — Potatoes  boiled  in  their  skins  require  less  salt 
or  none. 

New  Potatoes  are  scrubbed  and  ser4ped  and  put  on  in 
boiling  water  and  boiled  rapidly  for  20-30  minutes.  A 
sprig  of  mint  may  be  added.  When  ready,  drain  care- 
fully, toss  in  butter  and  finely  chopped  parsley.  Serve 
at  once. 

SEA   KALE. 

Wash  in  several  waters,  take  off  the  roots,  tie  in  bundles 
and  put  into  boiling,  salted  water,  to  which  a  good  squeeze 
of  lemon  juice  has  been  added.  Cook  until  tender,  about 
J  an  hour.  Serve  on  toast  with  melted  butter,  or  with 
a  suitable  sauce  poured  over. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    141 

TURNIPS    (OLD). 

Wash  and  pare  thickly,  cut  into  neat  pieces.  Cook 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain  well,  return 
to  pan,  mash  with  fork,  add  small  piece  butter  and  a 
little  pepper.       Make  thoroughly  hot  and  serve  at  once. 

TURNIPS    (NEW), 

Wash  and  pare  thinly.  Cook  till  tender  in  boiling 
salted  water  about  30  minutes,  drain  well  and  serve  with 
melted  butter  and  chopped  parsley,  or  white  sauce 
poured  over. 

STEAMING. 

steaming  has  advantages  over  boiling,  as  the  vegetable 
cells  are  not  ruptured  to  the  same  extent,  and  thus  there 
is  less  loss  of  valuable  salts,  although  in  the  case  of  some 
vegetables  there  is  a  distinct  loss,  which  can  be  recognized 
by  the  discolouration  of  the  water. 

The  pan  or  steamer  used  must  have  a  tight-fitting  lid 
and  the  water  in  the  pan  must  boil  rapidly.  There  must 
be  sufficient  steam  to  effect  cooking,  therefore,  when 
necessary,  replenish  pan  with  boiling  water. 

When  Steaming,  alternative  methods  may  be  used : — 

I.  Prepare  vegetable  according  to  kind,  put  into  steamer, 
and  cook  till  tender  over  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

II.  Prepare  vegetables,  cut  up  if  necessary,  and  put  into 
a  basin  or  jar.  Place  basin  in  pan  and  pour  sufQcient 
boiling  water  into  pan  to  come  |  up  sides  of  basin.  When 
the  vegetables  are  tender,  serve  with  any  juices  poured 
over  them  or  added  to  an  accompanying  sauce. 

N.B. — The  use  of  high  pressure  steam  for  cooking 
vegetables  gives  most  satisfactory  results.  A  minimum 
proportion  only  of  the  goodness  and  flavours  escapes  in 
Pressure  Cooking  and  these  are  not  lost — ^they  are  found 
in  the  water  that  condenses  from  the  steam.      Neither  is 


U2     EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT— VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

the  vitamin  content  impaired,  owing  to  the  very  short  time 
required  for  cooking. 

Average  time  required  for  cooking  -by  pressure  =  9 
minutes.  A  special  cooker  is  necessary,  and  one  with 
"  controlled  "  steam  is  to  be  recormnended. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES. 

Wash  and  pare  thinly — put  into  cold  water  to  prevent 
them  turning  black.  Steam  (method  I.)  and  when  tender 
drain  well  and  coat  instantly  with  suitable  sauce.  Average 
time  for  cooking  : — 20-30  minutes. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Trim,  wash,  and  scrape  end  of  stalk  if  necessary.  Tie 
in  bundles  and  steam  (method  I.)  until  tender — 20-30 
minutes.  Drain  well,  serve  on  toast  with  melted  butter 
poured  over  heads,  or  handed,  or  serve  with  Eollandaise 
Sauce  (see  page  247). 

SPRUE. 

Prepared  and  served  similarly  to  Asparagus. 

AUBERGINES   OR   EGG   PLANTS. 

Wash  and  peel,  or  leave  the  skin  on  and  remove  the 
stalks.  Steam  (method  I.)  for  45  minutes.  Season 
lightly  and  toss  in  butter.       Serve  immediately. 

Alternatively. 

"  Wash  and  peel.      Cook  as  above.      Serve  coated  with  a 
suitable  sauce — ^white,  parsley,  cheese  or  egg. 

BEANS. 

Remove  from  pod.  Take  away  inner  skin,  except  when 
very  young  and  tender.  Steam  till  tender,  30-40  minutes. 
Drain  well  and  toss  in  melted  butter  and  chopped  parsley. 


BOUSESOLD  COOKEBT  — VEGETABLES,  Etc.    143 

BEETROOT. 

Prepare  as  for  boiling  (page  139).  Steam  till  skin  peels 
oS  easily — 1  hour  or  longer  depending  on  age  and  size. 
Remove  skin  and  serve  as  for  Boiled  Beetroot. 

CABBAGE. 

Take  off  coarse  outside  leaves,  slit  the  stalk,  and  steep 
in  cold  water  with  salt.  Wash  very  thoroughly  and  cut 
up  roughly.  Steam  quickly  till  tender  20-40  minutes. 
Season  lightly,  and,  if  liked,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter. 
Shred  quickly  with  a  knife  and  serve  very  hot. 

RED   CABBAGE. 

Preparation,  cooking  and  serving,  as  for  Cabbage. 

CARROTS. 

Wash,  scrape  if  necessary,  and  cut  up  or  leave  whole. 
New  carrots  may  be  scalded,  and  the  skin  rubbed  off. 
Steam  by  either  of  the  above  methods  till  tender,  drain 
well.  Season  lightly  and  toss  in  butter  and  chopped 
parsley,  or  coat  with  a  white  sauce.  Average  time  for 
cooking: — Old  Carrots,  1-2  hours;  New  Carrots,  30-40 
minutes. 

Old  Carrots  may  also  be  mashed  with  a  fork  and  served 
similarly  to  old  turnips. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Remove  coarse  outside  leaves.  Wash  and  steep  in  cold 
water  with  a  little  salt  for  J  an  hour.  Trim  the  stalk 
to  make  cauliflower  stand.  Put  in  steamer  and  cook 
quickly  imtil  stem  is  soft.  Do  not  overcook.  Average 
time  : — summer,  15  minutes;  winter,  30-35  minutes.  Serve 
either  coated  with  suitable  sauce — ^white  or  cheese — or 
plain,  with  the  sauce  served  separately. 


144     HOVSESOLD  COOKEBT —VMGETABLJES,  Etc. 

CELERIAC  OR  CELERY  ROOT. 

Wash  and  pare.  Divide  into  neat  pieces.  Cook  by 
either  of  above  methods.  Serve  plain,  tossed  in  butter  and 
chopped  parsley  or  coated  with  white,  parsley  or  egg 
sauce.      Average  time  for  cooking  is  1  hour. 

CELERY. 

Separate,  trim  if  necessary,  and  scrub  to  remove  sand. 
Cut  in  neat  lengths  or  tie  in  bundles.  Steam  till  tender — 
40  minutes  to  1  hour.  Serve  on  toast  and  coat  with 
sauce — cheese,  egg,  white,  etc.  Garnish  with  coralline 
pepper. 

N.B. — ^Leeks  may  be  treated  similarly. 

FRENCH   BEANS. 

Wash  well,  string,  i.e.,  twist  back  ends,  when  a  fibrous 
thread  will  come  with  them.  Cut  the  beans  into  thin 
strips  and  put  into  steamer.  Cook  quickly,  10-20  minutes, 
or  until  tender.  Drain  well,  add  a  little  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  shake  well  and  serve. 

KALE. 

Wash  in  several  waters.  Trim,  if  necessary.  Shred 
finely,  steam  till  tender,  about  30  minutes,  and  serve  as 
for  Cabbage. 

KOHL   RABL 

Scrub,  wash  and  pare  thickly.  Steam  until  tender, 
about  1  hour,  and  serve  as  for  Turnip. 

MARROW. 

Cut  the  marrow  in  quarters  and  peel.  Take  out  the 
seeds  and  cut  into  convenient  pieces.  Steam  until  tender 
(45  minutes).  Coat  with  cheese,  tomato,  parsley  or  other 
suitable  sauce. 


HOUSJEBOLD  COOKEEY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    145 

ONIONS. 

Peel.  Steam  till  tender,  1-lJ  hours.  Drain  well  and 
coat  with  a  suitable  sauce — ^white,  parsley,  Dutch,  etc. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash  and  scrape.  Steam  till  tender,  1  hour.  Drain 
well.  Serve  coated  with  sauce,  or  mashed  with  seasoning 
and  butter,  and,  if  liked,  the  addition  of  a  little  cream. 

GREEN   PEAS. 

Shell  peas,  wash,  and  put  in  a  basia.  Add  a  pinch 
of  sugar,  and  a  sprig  of  mint.  Steam  in  a  pan  with  a 
tight-fitting  lid  until  tender,  J  hour-|  hour.  Mis  with 
a  little  butter  and  seasoning.      Serve  at  once.  ^ 

POTATOES. 

Scrub,  pare  thinly  or  cook  in  skins.  Steam  quickly 
until  cooked,  30-40  minutes,  depending  on  size  and  age. 
Serve  as  for  Boiled  Potatoes. 

SALSIFY. 

Wash,  and  scrape  till  white.  Put  into  cold  water,  to 
which  lemon  jnice  has  been  added  to  prevent  discolouration. 
Steam  quickly  till  tender  (30-40  minutes)  drain  well  and 
coat  with  sauce;  or,  toss  in  butter,  seasoning,  and 
chopped  parsley. 

BRUSSELS   SPROUTS. 

Trim,  soak  in  cold  salted' water.  Steam  till  stalk  feels 
tender,  20-30  minutes.  Add  seasoning,  and  a  little  butter. 
Toss  sprouts  thoroughly  in  this  and  serve  at  once. 

TURNIPS. 

Scrub,  wash  and  pare  thickly.  Cut  old  turnips  into 
neat  pieces.  New  turnips  may  be  left  whole.  Steam 
till  tender,  40  minutes-1  hour,  depending  on  season,  and 
serve  as  for  Boiled  Turnips. 

K 


146    MOVSEB.OLD  COOKEBY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

STEWING. 

stewing  is  a  most  economical  method  of  cooking 
vegetables,  as  all  the  goodness  is  retained.  Both  root 
and  green  vegetables  may  be  stewed — but,  the  colour  of 
green  vegetables  is  impaired.  Stewing  is  slow  cooking 
i.e.,  simmering — in  a  small  amount  of  liquid. 

Method. — Prepare  the  vegetable  (one  or  a  mixture)  and 
cut  into  neat  pieces;  lift  dripping  with  water  and  pack 
into  pan.  Heat  through,  then  put  a  close-fitting  lid  on 
pan  and  cook  slowly  at  side  of  stove  till  tender.  A  little 
stock  may  be  added  if  a  gravy  is  wanted  or  if  afraid 
contents  will  bum.  A  piece  of  butter  may  be  added, 
also  seasoning,  just  before  serving. 

Alternative  Method. — ^Prepaire  as  for  stewing,  but 
put  pan  (or  an  earthenware  casserole)  into  the  oven. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  lb.  Artichokes  (after  J  gill  Stock, 

peeling).  Salt,  Pepper. 

}  oz.  Butter. 

Prepare  artichokes  as  for  Steaming  {page  142).  Cook 
by  either  of  above  methods.  Shake  pan  occasionally, 
keeping  the  lid  on,  to  make  sure  the  vegetables  are  not 
burning.  When  cooked,  20-30  minutes,  add  butter  and 
seasoning  and  serve  at  once. 

N.B. — Celeriac  and  Salsify  are  stewed  and  served  as 
above.  Salsify  may  be  served  in  a  table  napkin,  and  a 
suitable  sauce  handed. 

AUBERGINES. 

Prepare  as  for  Steaming  {page  142).  Melt  sufficient 
butter  in  the  pan  to  cover  the  bottom.  Add  aubergines, 
eat  in  neat  pieces  or  split  in  half,  shake. well  over  heat, 
then  add  a  little  stock.      Put  the  lid  on  the  pan  and  stew 


HOUSEBOLD  COOKEET  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    147 

gently  till  tender — 20  minutes.  Put  in  vegetable  dish 
and  keep  hot.  Measure  the  liquid,  and  use  it  with  extra 
milk  if  necessary  to  make  up  a  coating  sauce.  Allow 
i  gill  sauce  to  each  aubergine.  Season  well,  adding  a 
squeeze  of  lemon  juice.      Pour  over  aubergines  and  serve. 

N.B. — Vegetable  Marrows  are  cooked  and  served  as 
above.      Time  for  cooking — 40  minutes. 

CABBAGE. 

Prepare  as  for  Steaming  (page  143).  Shred  finely. 
Stew  gently  till  tender — 20-40  minutes.  Serve  as  for 
Steamed  Cabbage. 

STUFFED   CABBAGE. 

See  Braised  Cabbage. 

N.B. — Red  Cabbage  is  cooked  as  above;  also  Kale,  Sea 
Kale,  and  Brussels  Sprouts.  In  each  ease  prepare 
vegetable  as  for  Steaming. 

CARROTS. 

Prepare  as  for  Steaming  (page  143).  Stew  until  tender. 
Serve  as  for  Steamed  Carrots.  If  to  be  coated  with  a 
sauce,  use  the  liquid  in  which  the  carrots  were  stewed. 
Average  time  for  cooking : — Old  Carrots,  1-li  hours;  New 
Carrots,  30  minutes. 

N.B. — Parsnips  are  cooked  as  above,  also  Kohl  Rabi 
and  New  Turnips. 

CELERY. 

Prepare  as  for  Steaming  (page  144).  Stew  until  tender, 
40-50  minutes.  Serve  as  for  Steamed  Celery.  If  to  be 
coated  with  a  sauce,  use  the  liquid  in  which  the  celery 
was  stewed,  with  extra  milk  added  if  necessary. 

N.B. — Leeks  and  Onions  are  cooked  as  abova 


148    BOVSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 
HARICOT   BEANS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Dried  Haricot  Beans.        1  oz.  Bacon  or  loz.  Butter. 
1  gill  Tomato  Sauce.  1  gUl  Water  or  Stock. 

Wash  beans.  Steep  for  a  few  hours  in  cold  water. 
They  may  be  skinned  or  not  after  steeping.  Stew  gently 
in  water  or  stock,  with  butter  or  bacon  added — about  2 
hours.  When  tender,  drain  and  season.  Serve  plain 
or  with  Tomato  sauce  poured  over. 

Alternative  Method. — ^If  the  beans  are  skinned  before 
cooking,  they  may  be  mashed,  with  butter  or  cream  added 
to  moisten. 

(Tomato  Sauce  : — page  246). 

FRENCH  BEANS. 

Prepare  as  for  Steaming  (page  144).  The  beans  may 
be  cut  up  'or  left  whole.  Stew  till  tender — 20  minutes. 
Serve  tossed  in  butter  or  coated  with  a  suitable  sauce. 

POTATOES. 

Prepare  as  for  Steaming  (piige  145).  Stew  gently  till 
tender.      Toss  in  butter  and  sprinkle  over  chopped  parsley. 

BAKING. 

Prepare  vegetables  and  put  into  pan  with  some  melted 
dripping.  Bake  till  tender,  turning  them  often.  Five 
minutes  before  serving^  sprinkle  over  a  little  seasoning. 
Drain  well  and  serve  very  hot. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES. 

Prepare  artichokes  as  for  Steaming  {page  142).  Cook 
by  above  method. 

Other  vegetables  may  be  Baked.  Examples  are  as 
follow : — 

Aubergines     (Stuffed);    Beans;     Beetroot;    Carrots; 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY— VEGETABLES,  Etc.    149 

Cabbage      (Stuffed);      Cauliflower;      Celery;      Leek; 
Marrow     (Stuffed);      Parsnips;     Potatoes;     Brussel 
Sprouts. 
All  are  prepared  according  to  kind;  need  not  be  stuffed. 

BAKED   TOMATOES    (a). 

Choose  firm  tomatoes.  Wipe  them  and  place  in  a 
buttered  dripping-tin.  Cover  with,  thickly-buttered  paper 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  heat  till  hot  through,  but  not 
fallen.  Use  as  a  vegetable,  or  to  garnish  suitable  meat 
dishes. 

BAKED   TOMATOES    (b). 

Prepare  as  above,  then  skin,  place  in  a  pie-dish  with 
a  pat  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  a  little  water.  Cover 
and  bake  gently  twenty  minutes.      Serve  with  liquor  round. 

BAKED   STUFFED   TOMATOES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  to  6  Tomatoes.  i  small  Onion. 

3  table-spoonfuls  chopped  1  oz.  Butter. 

raw  Ham  or  Bacon.  Seasoning. 

2  or  3  table-spoonfula 

Breadcrumbs. 

Cut  a  round  top  off  each  tomato  and  scoop  out  the 
pulp.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  chop  and  fry  the 
onion  until  almost  cooked  but  not  brown,  then  add  the 
ham,  and  cook  thoroughly.  Add  pulp  and  sufficient 
breadcrumbs  to  absorb  the  fat,  add  seasoning.  Fill  the 
tomatoes  with  the  mixture,  but  do  not  pack  too  tightly. 
Sprinkle  a  few  browned  crumbs  on  top,  replace  the  lid 
of  the  tomatoes,  place  in  buttered  tin,  covered  with 
buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  tiU  just 
hot  through.  Serve  on  small  croutons  ,of  bread  and 
garnish  well  with  parsley. 

N.B, — Tomato  pulp  may  be  made  into  sauce  to  serve 
with  tomatoes. 


150    EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 
TOMATO   AND   EGG  DISH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Tomatoes.  i  oz.  grated  Clieese. 

2  BggB.  Seasoning. 

Lay  slices  of  tomatoes  on  a  well  greased  fireproof  dish. 
Break  eggs  on  top  and  sprinkle  over  grated  cheese  and 
seasoning.  Bake  till  set  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  having 
dish  in  a  tin  of  water.      Serve  hot  garnished  with  parsley. 


BAKED   MUSHROOMS. 

Pick  and  skin  the  mushrooms;  wash  thoroughly  and 
dry  carefully.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each 
mushroom,  sprinkle  over  some  seasoning  and  little  lemon 
juice.  Place  on  a  buttered  tin,  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  tender. 


CAULIFLOWER  AU   GRATIN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Cauliflower.  i  pint  Milk  (veiy  good 
IJ  ozs.  Butter.  measure). 

li  ozs.   Flour.  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Cayenne. 

2  ozs.  grated  Cheese. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  till  tender,  drain  and  place  upright 
on  the  dish  in  which  it"  is  to  be  served.  Make  a  sauce 
of  butter,  flour  and  milk,  add  seasoning  and  grated  cheese, 
reserving  about  1  table-spoonful  of  cheese.  Pour  the 
cheese  sauce  over  the  cauliflower,  sprinkle  on  top  the 
remainder  of  the  cheese.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  till  nicely 
browned  on  top,  garnish  with  parsley. 

N.B. — Celery,  leeks,  and  onions  can  be  cooked  similarly. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBS  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    151 

CAULIFLOWER  AND   TOMATO   SOUFFLE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Flour.  1  small  Cooked  Cauliflower. 

1  oz.  Butter.  2  small  Tomatoes. 

li  gills  ]\Iilk.  Salt,  "Pepper,  Cayenne^ 

2  Yolks.  Brown  Crumbs. 

3  WMtes. 

Melt  the  butter.  Add  flour,  then  milk  gradually.  Boil 
up  over  heat.  Add  yolks  and  seasoning.  Lastly,  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Divide  cauliflower  into  small 
sprigs;  skin  and  slice  tomatoes.  Place  some  of  the 
mixture  in  bottom  of  prepared  souffle  case  (greased  and  a 
band  of  paper  tied  round) ;  then  add  a  few  sprigs  of 
cauliflower  and  slices  of  tomato;  more  mixture  and  so  on, 
finishing  up  with  a  layer  of  the  mixture.  Sprinkle 
browned  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20-30  minutes. 
Serve  at  once. 

N.B. — Other  souffles  are  made  similarly.  Nut  souffl4 — 
substitute  3  ozs.  pine  kernels,  chopped. 


COOKING  IN   BUTTER. 

The  vegetables  are  prepared  according  to  kind  and  are 
cooked  in  butter  in  a  pan  with  a  tight-fitting  lid.  During 
cooking,  a  gentle  heat  should  be  maintained,  and  the  pan 
should  be  shaken  occasionally,  keeping  the  lid  on. 


JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES. 

Prepare  artichokes  as  for  Steaming  {page  142);  dry; 
put  a  piece  of  butter  in  stew  pan,  and  add  the  artichokes — 
sufiScient  only  to  cover  bottom  of  pan.  Toss  them  gently 
in  the  butter,  put  the  lid  on  the  pan,  and  cook  slowly  tUl 
tender,  shaking  the  pan  occasionally.  When  cooked,  toss 
in  finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once.  Melted 
Butter  Sauce  may  be  handed. 


152    EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY— VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

CABBAGE. 

Prepare  cabbage  as  for  Steaming  (pogf*  143)  and  shred 
finely.  Put  into  pan  with  butter.  Cook  gently  till  tender, 
having  a  tight-fitting  lid  on  pan.  When  cooked,  season 
lightly,  if  necessary,  and  serve  at  once. 

NEW   POTATOES. 

Prepare  and  dry  potatoes.  Put  in  pan  with  sufBcient 
melted  butter  to  cover  bottom  of.  pan.  Toss  in  butter, 
put  on  lid  and  cook  till  tender,  about  i  hour.  Before 
serving,  take  of£  lid  and  crisp. - 

N.B. — The  above  examples  are  sufficient  to  illustrate  this 
method.  Other  vegetables  are  prepared  according  to  kind 
and  cooked  as  above. 

Buttered  Vegetables  take  less  time  to  cook  than  by  other 
methods,  owing  to  the  higher  temperature  of  the  fat. 

BRAISING. 

Braising  is  a  combination  of  stewing  and  roasting  or 
steaming  and  roasting,  depending  on  the  amount  of 
liquid  used.^ 

Most  vegetables  may  be  braised,  the  flavour  often  being 
greatly  improved. 

Braising  is  an  elaborate  method,  but  is  to  be  recommended 
for  the  cooking  of  Dressed  Vegetables  and  the  rarer 
varieties. 

Half  the  cooking  is  effected  on  the  stove  and  the 
remaining  half  in  the  oven. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Braise  {page  110) »  1  lb.  Artichokes. 

}  pint  Stock.     ' 

Make  minpoix  for  Braise.  Prepare  artichokes  as  for 
Steaming.       Put  artichokes  on  minpoix  and  fume  for  5 


E0V8EE0LD  COOKEBT— VEGETABLES,  Etc.    153 

minutes.  Add  sufficient  stock  to  almost  cover  minpoix. 
Cover  artichokes  with  buttered  paper,  put  lid  on  pan. 
Simmer  gently  on  top  of  the  stove  for  20  minutes,  then 
put  pan  into  a  hot  oven  and  continue  cooking  for  20 
minutes.  Remove  artichokes,  strain  gravy  and  skim  well. 
Reduce  gravy  to  demi-glaze,  and  pour  round  artichokes. 

Alternative  method  of  serving : — Remove  artichokes, 
serve  on  toasted  or  fried  bread.  Thicken  gravy  with  flour 
(2  teaspoonfuls :  1  gill),  boil  up.  Coat  artichokes  and 
serve  at  once. 


STUFFED   CABBAGE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

Braise  (page  110).  J  pint  Stock. 

1  Cabbage. 

Forcemeat. 

1  oz.  Sausage-meat.  Seasoning. 

1  oz.  Breadcrumbs. 

Halve  cabbage  and  remove  stalk.  "Wash  carefully,  soak 
in  salted  water  i  hour.  Till  cavity  with  forcemeat  of 
sausage  and  breadcrumbs.  Place  halves  of  cabbage 
together  and  tie  with  string.  Cook  as  above  recipe, 
allowing  15  minutes  on  top  of  stove  and  15  minutes  in 
the  oven.  When  ready,  remove  string  and  serve  with 
demi-glaze  poured  round. 


STUFFED   AUBERGINES. 

Wash  and  peel  and  cut  in  half  Jengthwise.  Scoop  out 
centre  part.  Farce  (Forcemeat — as  for  Stuffed  Cabbage), 
cook  and  serve  as  Stuffed  Cabbage,  allowing  similar  time.  ^ 

N.B, — Vegetable  marrows  may  be  cooked  and  served 
as  above. 


154    SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

STUFFED   CUCUMBER. 

Wash  and  peel  and  cnt  in  pieces  about  2  ins.  long. 
Scoop  out  the  inside  carefully,  almost  to  the  bottom.  Fill 
up  cavity  with  forcemeat  as  for  Stuffed  Cabbage.  Cook 
as  for  Cabbage,  allowing  10  minutes  on  top  of  the  stove 
and  10  minutes  in  the  oven.  When  ready,  brush  over 
with  glaze,  and  serve  on  croutes  of  toasted  or  fried  bread, 
with  tomato  sauce  or  thickened  sauce  poured  round. 
Garnish  with  hard  boiled  white  of  egg. 

CELERY. 

Wash  very  carefully,  and  soak  in  salted  water.  Keep 
head  whole,  if  possible.  Braise  and  serve  as  for  Jerusalem 
Artichokes. 

N.B. — Other  vegetables,  e.g. : — Carrots,  Parsnips,  New 
Potatoes,  etc.,  are  braised  and  served  as  above.  Prepare 
according  to  kind,  as  for  steaming. 

ROAST  POTATOES. 

See  "  Baking."  These  form  a  good  accompaniment 
to  roast  meat.  If  liked,  potatoes  may  be  sliced 
thickly  instead  of  being  left  whole,  or  if  very  large 
they  may  be  parboiled  before  roasting.  Boast  20  to  30 
minutes.  Potatoes  may  be  baked  with  their  jackets  on, 
in  which  case  no  fat  is  used,  and  they  are  served  on  a 
folded  napkin. 

MASHED    POTATOES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Cooked  Potatoes.  Dripping  or  Butter  and  little 

Salt  and  Pepper.  "Mihk. 

Boil  or  steam  the  potatoes,  beat  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  add  the  seasoning,  fat,  and  the  milk,  which  should 
be  heated  before  adding.      Beat  well  and  make  quite  hot. 

Turnips  are  served  as  Potatoes.      Omit  addition  of  milk. 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    155 

PEAS   PUDDING. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Split  Peas.  Seasoning. 

2  ozs.  Butter  or  Dripping.        Easpings. 

Wash  and  soak  the  peas  overnight  in  boiling  water,  to 
which  has  been  added  a  good  pinch  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda. 
Tie  rather  loosely  in  a  cloth,  place  in  boiling  water,  and 
simmer  2  hours.  Drain  well.  Mash  the  peas  and  pass 
through  a  wire  sieve,  then  add  the  fat  melted  and  season- 
ings. Grease  a  basin,  sprmkle  thickly  with  raspings, 
pack  in  the  mixture.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 
Let  it  .shrink  well,  turn  out,  and  serve  with  boiled 
pickled  pork. 

CURRIED    LENTILS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Split  LentUs.  1  table-spoonful  Ourry 

3  medium-sized  Onions.  Powder. 

3  ozs.  Butter  or  Dripping.        A  little  Salt. 

Wash  and  steep  the  lentils  overnight  in  cold  water; 
slice  the  onions  thinly,  and  fry  them  with  the  curry  in 
butter  till  a  nice  brown;  add  the  lentils,  cover  closely, 
and  cook  gently  till  the  lentils  are  soft,  but  not  mashed. 
Serve  in  a  pile,  on  a  hot  dish.  If  the  lentils  are  very 
dry  a  little  stock  or  water  may  be  added.  This  dish  is 
improved  by  being  served  with  boiled  rice. 

VEGETABLE    PIE. 

INGKEDIENTS. 

1  Carrot.  4  pint  Stock  or  Water, 

1  Onion  or  2  Leeks.  2  ozs.  Sago  or  Tapioca, 

i  Turnip.  washed  and  soaked, 

1  Potato.  or  i  pint  Brown  Sauoe. 

1  teacupful  Peas.  2  ozs.  Margarine  or  Dripping. 

1  table-spoonful  chopped  i  lb.  Short  Pastry. 
Parsley.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

2  Tomatoes. 


156     EOUSEEOLD  COOKESY  —VEOETABLES,  Etc. 

Parboil  vegetables,  except  tomato.  Prepare  and  slice 
the  vegetables  very  thinly,  mix  and  place  in  layers  with 
seasoning  and  tapioca  between,  pour  in  the  stock  or  sauce 
and  cover  with  the  pastry,  as  in  meat  pie.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  i  hour.       Serve  hot  or  cold. 

N.B. — Any  vegetable  in  season  may  be  added,  and  dried 
lentils  or  beans  may  take  the  place  of  the  peas. 


PLAIN   BOILED   RICE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Fatna  Kice.  Boiling  Salted  Water. 

Squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

Wash  the  rice  very  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Place 
in  pan  of  boiling  salted  water  to  which  is  added  a  squeeze 
of  lemon  juice,  and  boil  rapidly  without  lid  for  about 
12  minutes.  Drain,  and  rush  cold  water  through.  Place 
in  a  pan  lined  with  buttered  paper,  cover  and  steam  for 
half  an  hour.  Serve  instead  of  potatoes,  or  an  accom- 
paniment to  curries,  certain  soups,  etc. 


COLCANNON. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Boiled  XDabbage.  1  Boiled  Onion, 

i  lb.  Boiled  Potatoes.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  oz.  Dripping  (melted). 

Mash  all  together,  heat  in  a  pot  and  stir  well,  pile 
high  on  a  dish,  smooth  with  a  knife  and  score  across; 
or  line  a  thickly-greased  bowl  with  raspings,  and  turn 
the  cabbage  mixture  into  the  dish  and  heat  in  the  oven; 
allow  to  shrink  well;  turn  out  and  serve. 


EOVSESOLD   COOKEBY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.     157 

SPINACH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Spinach. 
Wash  in  several  waters.      Remove  steins.      Put  drippmg 
wet  in  pan.       Add  a  pinch  of  sugar.       Put  on  lid  and 
oook  gently  till  tender  (20  minutes).      Rub  through  a  wire 
sieve.      Serve  on  toast. 

a  la  Creme. 

Spinach  FttiSe.  i  gill  Cream. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  Seasoning. 

Melt  butter,  add  spinach,  cream  and  seasoning.  Reheat. 
Pile  on  fried  bread — garnish  with  half-moons  of  puff 
pastry  or  fried  bread. 

CHESTNUTS. 
General  Preparation. — Wash  well,  score  and  blanch. 
Remove  shell  and  all  the  brown  skin.       Use  as  required 
for  soups,  curries,  stews,  etc. 

CHESTNUTS    (PLAIN). 

Wash  well.  Score  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender  (45  minutes).  Remove  shell  and  brown  skin. 
Toss  in  butter,  season  lightly  and  serve  at  once. 

CHESTNUT  CURRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Chestnuts.  4  ozs.  Boiled  Eice  (see 

i  pint  Curry  Sauce  (see  page  156). 

page  246). 

Prepare  chestnuts  and  put  in  hot  sauce.  Simmer  for 
one  hour.  Add  lemon  juice  if  necessary.  Serve  at  once. 
Rice  served  separately. 

N.B. — ^Vegetable  curries  are  made  similarly.  The 
vegetables  are  prepared  according  to  kind  and  simmered 
till  tender  in  the  sauce,  e.g. : — ^beans,  carrots,  celery, 
parsnips,  etc. 


158    HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —VEGETABLES,  Etc. 
STEWED   MUSHROOMS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
Mushrooms.  Flour. 

Stock  or  Water.  Toast. 

Prepare  mushrooms.  Stew  in  very  little  liquid.  Serve 
on  toast.  Thicken  stock,  allowing  IJ  teaspoonfuls  flour 
per  gill.      Coat  mushrooms  and  serve  at  once. 

Grilled  and  buttered  mushrooms  are  also  excellent. 

N.B. — Trimmings  are  used  for  gravies  and  stocks. 

GREEN   PEA   PUREE. 

For  this  either  peas  alone,  or  marrowfats,  or  equal 
quantity  of  cooked  peas  and  cooked  potatoes  may  be  used. 

Sieve  the  peas  through  a  fine  wire  or  coarse  hair  sieve. 
Add  seasoning  to  taste,  and  either  1  oz.  butter  melted 
or  sufScient  cream  and  milk  to  moisten  nicely.  If  colour 
is  poor,  add  a  little  green  colouring.  Heat  thoroughly 
in  a  pan  and  use  as  a  centre  for  entrees. 

J  lb.  peas  and  i  lb.  potatoes  make  about  the  right 
amount  for  one  dish. 

FRYING. 

All  vegetables  may  be  fried.  They  should  be  cooked 
previously,  with  the  exception  of  potatoes,  which  may  also 
be  fried  raw  (see  page  159).  They  are  protected  by  an 
artificial  coating — Batter,  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs — and  fried 
in  deep  fat.  They  must  be  drained  thoroughly  and 
served  at  once. 

CAULIFLOWER   IN   BATTER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1   small   Cauliflower    (not  quite  cooked). 
Some  Frying  Batter   (see  page  254). 

Break  off  sprigs  of  cauliflower  and  dip  in  batter.      Fry 

a  nice  brown  in  hot  fat.      Drain.      Serve  instantly. 

N.H. — Other  suitable  vegetables  may  be  treated  similarly. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT— VEGETABLES,  Etc.    159 

ALMOND    POTATOES. 

Mixture  as  for  potato  croquettes  with  the  addition  of 
IJ  ozs.  grated  cheese.  Make  into  balls,  coat  with  beaten 
egg  and  toss  in  shredded  blanched  almonds.  Fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat,  serve  in  paper  cases. 

May  be  served  simply  as  a  variety  of  potato  in  a 
v^etable  dish,  or  as  a  lunch  or  odd  supper  dish. 


FRIED   CELERY. 

Boil  or  steam  the  celery  until  tender.  Drain  on  a  cloth 
and  when  quite  cold,  season.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  toss  in 
breadcrumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  till  a  nice  brown.  Drain. 
Serve  as  a  dressed  vegetable  and  send  tomato  sauce  to 
table  with  it.      Artichokes  are  cooked  similarly. 


FRIED    POTATOES. 

Cut  the  potatoes  thinly,  dry  thoroughly,  put  into  hot 
fat,  and  cook  gradually.  Raise  the  heat  and  brown 
nicely.  They  are  ready  when  coloured  a  golden  brown. 
Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  serve  on  a  dish-paper  in  a 
vegetable  dish. 


POTATO   CROQUETTES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  cooked  Potatoes.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs. 

1  Yolk  of  Egg. 

Sieve  the  potatoes,  add  yolk  of  egg  and  melted  butter, 
also  seasoning.  Shape  into  croquettes  or  balls,  coat  with 
egg  and  roll  in  breadcrumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain 
on  soft  paper.  Serve  on  a  dish-paper  with  sprigs  of 
parsley  or  stalks  in  each. 


160     BOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

POTATO   CHIPS    (a). 

Peel  some  potatoes,  trim  and  slioe  very  thinly.  Leave 
in  cold  water  one  hour,  then  dry  in  a  cloth.  Fry  in 
hot  fat  till  .cooked  through  and  a  nice  brown.  Drain, 
and  season  with  salt.  Serve  with  grilled  meats,  game 
and  roast  fowl. 


POTATO   CHIPS    (b). 

Select  the  potatoes  rather  small;  pare  them  very  nicely; 
cut  th«m  in  8  or  12  pieces  exactly  like  the  natural  divisions 
of  an  orange,  and  soak  one  hour  in  cold  water.  Dry 
them  in  a  towel  thoroughly  and  put  into  the  fat  which 
is  not  quite  smoking.  Let  them  remain  in  the  fat  until 
they  begin  to  float  on  the  surface;  then  remove  them  and 
allow  the  fat  to  become  smoking  hot.  Quickly  put  the 
potatoes  back,  when  they  will  pufE  out  and  become  brown. 
Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  very  hot. 


POTATO  STRAWS. 

Cut  potatoes  into  strips  aboiit  one-eighth  of  an  inch 
square  and  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long.  Soak  in  cold 
water  one  hour.  Dry  in  a  clean  cloth  and  fry  as  potato 
chips.      Drain,  season  and  serve  on  a  dish-paper. 


POTATO   RIBBONS. 

Wash  the  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  slices  of  an  inch 
in  depth.  Pare  the  slices  very  evenly  and  proceed  to 
cut  them  into  long,  thin  ribbons.  Soak  one  hour  in  cold 
water.  Take  up  and  dry  them  (and  tie  into  a 
knot,  if  liked),  drop  them  in  the  hot  fat  and  fry  a  golden 
colour.       Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  hot. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    161 

FRIED   PARSLEY. 

Wash  parsley  well  and  pick  leaves  from  the  stalk.  Dry 
on  a  towel.  After  last  batch  of  fried  food  is  removed 
from  pan  and  when  smoke  has  just  ceased  to  rise,  place 
in  parsley  and  gently  lower  basket  into  fat.  When  the 
spluttering  noise  ceases  the  parsley  is  ready.  Drain, 
season,  and  use  at  once. 

SALADS   AND   DRESSINGS. 
To  Use  Vegetables  Raw.  ^ 

Almost  all  vegetables  may  be  eaten  raw.  They  are 
best  made  up  in  the  form  of  Salads. 

Hard  vegetables,  such  as  Carrot,  Turnip,  Beetroot,  Onion 
and  Artichokes  should  be  grated. 

Green  vegetable,  such  as  Brussels  Sprouts,  Heart  of 
a  Cabbage,  Spinach,  Lettuce,  Celery,  Cress,  etc.,  should  be 
shredded  or"  chopped. 

Tomatoes,  cucumber  and  radishes,  need  not  be  peeled. 

PLAIN  SALADS. 

FRENCH  OR  LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Prepare  a  head  of  lettuce  by  washing  each  leaf 
separately  in  a  stream  of  water,  tearing  off  any  portion 
that  is  bruised  or  brown,  and  looking  carefully  for  little 
green  insects  that  may  be  < lodged  in  the  creases;  they 
are  not  easily  seen.  Then  drain  the  lettuce  on  a  fresh 
towel  or  napkin,  for  if  the  leaves  are  very  w«t  the 
dressing  will  not  cling  to  them.  Tear  it  to  pieces  with 
the  fingers,  rejecting  the  large  part  of  the  stalk,  put  it 
into  a  deep  bowl,  pour  over  it  a  Trench  dressing,  and 
toss  it  with  a  wooden  salad  spoon  and  fork  until  all  the 
kttuce  seems  oiled.  Serve  it  immediately.  Mayonnaise 
dressing  may  be  used  instead  of  the  French  dressing  on 
this  salad. 

N.B. — Endive  and  Water-cress  Salad  are  prepared  as 
above. 

li 


162     HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 
TOMATO   SALACr. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 
Tomatoes.  1  table-spoonful  Vinegar. 

3  table-spoonfuls  Oil.  _Seasoiilng. 

Chopped  Parsley. 

Wash,  skin  and  slice  the  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  over  them  a 
little  chopped  parsley.  Mix  the  oil  and  vinegar  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over.  A  little  chopped  shallot 
is  liked  by  some. 

MIXED  VEGETABLES. 

ENGLISH   SALAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 
J  lb.  nice  Bed  Tomatoes.  2  liard-boiled  Eggs. 

Water-cress.  Salad  Dressing  (see 

2  or  3  Lettuces.  page  166). 

Dip  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for  2  minutes,  then  skin 
them,  and  cut  in  neat  pieces.  Wash  the  salad  plants  and 
dry  with  a  cloth;  break  into  nice  pieces.  Cut  the  eggs 
into  eight  and  arrange  the  salad  nicely  in  a  salad  bowl 
and  any  pieces  of  egg  left  from  dressing.  Garnish  with 
tomatoes  and  egg.  Salad  dressing  may  be  poured  over 
or  handed  separately. 

COOKED  VEGETABLES. 

POTATO   SALAD. 

INGEEDIENTS. 
Frealily-boiled  "Potatoes.  I'reiicli  Dressing. 

Beetroot. 

The  potatoes  and  beetroot  should  be  cooked  in ,  salted 
water  purposely  for  the  salad,  and  allowed  to  becjome  just 
cool.  Cold  potatoes  left  over  from  the  last  meal  may 
be  used,  but  they  are  not  so  nice.  When  the  potatoes 
are  cool  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  season  with  a  little  more 
lalt  and  white  pepper;  cut  the  beetroots  also  in  thin  slices, 
and  mix  the  two  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  beetroot  to 


HOUSEHOLD  C00KEB7  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc.    163 

two-thirds  potatoes  with  the  dressing,  or  arrange  them  in 
alternate  layers  in  a  salad  bowl,  with  the  dressing  poured 
over  each  layer  as  it  is  made. 

A  tastier  way,  which  really  makes  a  perceptible 
difference  in  the  flavour  of  the  salad,  is  to  mix  the  lemon 
juice,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  together,  without  the  oil, 
and  pour  it  over  the  different  layers  as  they  are  laid,  and 
then  add  the  oil  by  itself.  The  acids  penetrate  and 
season  the  vegetables,  and  the  oil  is  left  on  the  outside 
of  each  piece. 

N.B. — Chopped  olives  may  be  substituted  for  the 
beetroot. 

WINTER   SALAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Cooked  Potatoes.  Little  Celery. 

Cooked  Beetroot.  1  or  2  hard-boiled  Eggs. 

Cooked  Sprouts.  Salad  Dres.=jng. 

Cauliflower. 

Clean  and  cut  the  celery  into  dice.  Cut  the  potatoes 
and  beetroot  into  slices,  and  stamp  out  with  a  cutter. 
Have  the  sprouts  nicely  cooked,  cut  in  quarters.  Heap 
the  trimmings  in  a  pile  in  a  salad  bowl,  place  cut 
vegetables  round,  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  if 
liked.       Pour  the  salad  dressing  over. 

N.B. — See  English  Salad  Dressing.      Page  166. 

MEAT  SALADS. 

FISH   SALAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Cold  Fish,  such  as  Turbot  Some  Pickled  Shrimps. 

or  Halibut.  Some.  Water-cress. 

Beetroot  or  Tomatoes.  Some  Lettuce. 

Chopped  Gherkins.  Some  Cucumber. 

Chopped  Capers.  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Little  chopped  Shallot.  Hard-boiled  Egg. 

riake  the  fish.  Add  shrimps,  capers,  and  hard-boiled 
egg,    chopped.        Put    the    fish,    etc.,    mixed    with    some 


164     HOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

Mayonnaise,  in  the  centre.      Coat  all  over  with  Mayonnaise. 
Garnish  with  cress,  lettuce,  cucumber,  etc. 

CHICKEN   SALAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Some  cold  Chicken.  Some   well-washed  Lettuce 

Some  Mayonnaise  Dressing.  or  Celery. 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Remove  all  skin,  bone,  and  tendons  from  the  chicken, 
cut  into  half-inch  cubes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dry  and  tear  the  "lettuce  into  small  pieces,  or  cut  up 
the  celery.  Mix  equal  parts  of  chicken  and  lettuce  or 
celery  with  part  of  .th«  dressing,  arrange  it  in  a  shallow 
salad  bowl  or  entree  dish,  coat  with  the  remainder  of  the 
Mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  tiny  inside  teaves  of  lettuce 
or  celery  tops.  The  chicken,  lettuce,  and  dressing  may 
all  be  prepared  beforehand,  but  should  only  be  mixed  just 
before  serving. 

CHEESE    SALAD. 

Cut  up  a  pound  Qf  Cheddar  cheese  into  nice  dice  shapes, 
.  and  mix  with  -it  two  large  peeled  raw  onions,  the  best 
part  of  two  well-washed  heads  of  celery,  and  a  half  pound 
of  lean  cooked  ham  all  cut  in  similar  manner.  Dress 
with  Trench  dressing.  Dish  the  salad  in  a  pile,  sprinkle 
over  it  some  coralline  pepper  and  finely-shredded  crisp 
lettuce,  and  serve  for  luncljieon,  shooting  parties,  etc. 

SWEET  SALADS. 

MIXED   FRUIT   SALAD. 

INGEBDIENTS. 
Fruit,  in  season.  Any      Bottled      or      Tinned 

Grapes,  peeled  and  stoned.  Fruits  may   also   be   used, 

Peaches,  peeled  and  cut  up,  cut  up,  and  added, 

etc.  Sweet  Dressing  (see 

Nuts  and  Dates.  page  167). 

Mix  prepared  fruit  and  soak  in  syrup  or  sweet  dressing. 
Keep    on   ice    till    wanted.        Serve    on    a    crystal    dish. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOEEEY  —VEGETABLES,  Etc.    165 

Sprinkle  with  chopped  cocoanut   (if  liked),   or  cover   (if 
liked)  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavoured. 

APPLE   SALAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Bed  Apples.  Lettuce. 

1  oz.  Walnuts.  2  table-spoonfuls  cooked 

1  oz.  Dates.  "  Salad  Dressing. 

Celery. 

Halve  apples  or  cut  off  tops.  Scoop  out  inside  and 
chop  with  walnuts,  celery,  and  dates.  Add  dressing. 
Nick  edges  of  apples,  if  liked.  FUl  up  with  mixture, 
replace  top  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  garnish 
of  cress. 

ORANGE    SALAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 
Oranges.  Little  Sugar. 

French   Dressing. 

Peel  oranges,  remove  pith  and  pips,  slice  thinly,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  place  in  flat  salad  dish.  Pour  dressing  over, 
keep  on  ice  till  required. 

N.B. — Usually  served  aa  an  accompaniment  to  wild  duck. 

PINEAPPLE    SALAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  fresh  Pine  or  1  tin  Chunks.       J  teaspoonful  chopped 
Some  Mayonnaise  Sauce.  Parsley  (if  liked). 

Prepare  the  pineapple  and  cut  in  large  dice;  toss  with 
the  Mayonnaise.  Serve  in  a  pile  in  a  salad  bowl,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley  (if  liked). 


DRESSINGS. 

French  dressing  is  a  mixture  of  fine  olive  oil,  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice,   or  both,   and  salt,   cayenne  pepper  and 


166     HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

onion  juice.      The  following  proportions  will  make  enough 
for  one  head  of  lettuce : — 

FRENCH   DRESSING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  table-spoonful  Oil.  Extra,  if  liked:  — 

Few  grains  Cayenne.  }  teaspoonful  chopped  Parsley. 

i  salt-spoonful  Salt.  J  teaspoonful  chopped  Mint  and 

4  drops  Onion  Juice.  "Tarragon. 

1  teaspoonful  Lemon  Juice. 

1  teaspoonful  Vinegar. 

Mix  all  together  well.  .  This  dressing  may  be  used  with 
lettuce,  tomatoes,  cold  meat,  potato  salad,  and  to  marinade 
chicken,  lobster  and  crab  when  they  are  to  be  used 
for  salads. 

ENGLISH   DRESSING. 

'*  INGREDIENTS. 

Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  Eggs.  Salad   Oil   or    Cream    (about 

Seasoning.                   ,  1   gill).                              "  ' 

i  teaspoonful  Castor  Sugar.  1   or  2   table-spoonfuls 

i  teaspoonful  Mustard.  Vinegar. 

Place  the  yolks,  seasoning,  and  sugar  in  a  mortar,  pound 
well,  add  the  vinegar  gradually,  stirring  vigorously.  Lastly, 
add  the  cream  or  oil,  drop  by  drop. 

N.B. — Sour  cream  may  be  used  for  this  dressing. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  salt-spoonful  Salt.  2  table-spoonfuls  Lemon 

2  salt-spoonfuls  Mustard.  Juice. 

2  salt-spoonfuls  Sugar.  1  table-spoonful  Vinegar 
i  salt-spoonful  Cayenne.  (Tarragon). 

Tolk  of  1  Egg.  1  table-spoonful  thick  Cream. 
1  gUl  of  Olive  Oil. 

These  proportions  may  be  multiplied  vi  divided  to  make 
larger  or  smaller  quantities.  Put  the  first  five  ingredients 
together  in  a  bowl  and  mix  them  well;  then  add  the  oil, 
one  drop  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly  with  a  wooden 
spoon  or  whisk.       After  dropping  and  stirring   for  10 


EOUSESOLD  COOKEBY  —VEGETABLES,  Etc.    167 

minutes,  the  mixture  will  become  stiff  and  difficult  to  turn. 
At  this  point  stix  in  a  little  of  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 
Then  drop  in  more  oil,  and  stir  until  it  again  becomes 
stiff.  Continue  putting  in  oil  and  the  acids  until  all  are 
nsed,  when  the  result  should  be  a  thick,  smooth  cream, 
which  when  taken  up  on  the  end  of  a  spoon  will  keep 
its  shape  and  not  "  run."      Lastly,  stir  in  the  cream. 

Should  the  dressing  break  or  appear  curdled,  it  may 
sometimes  be  restored  to  smoothness  by  beating  with  an 
egg-beater,  or  by  adding  more  egg  and  stirring  for  a 
while  without  adding  oil.  If  these  expedients  fail,  begin 
all  over  again,  adding  the  curdled  dressing  to  a  new 
yolk.  However,  a  Mayonnaise  dressing  will  not  go 
wrong  except  in  the  hands  of  a  careless  worker.  The 
only  points  to  be  observed  are — to  put  the  oil  in  slowly, 
and  to  stir  constantly  and  rapidly.  The  cream  is  a 
valuable  addition,  giving  the  Mayonnaise  a  delicate,  satis- 
fying flavour. 

Note. — The  dressing  for  salads,  whether  simply  oil  and 
vinegar,  or  a  Mayonnaise,  should  be  mixed  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  As  for  the  seasonings,  the  Spanish  maxim  which 
reads  as  follows  is  a  good  guide :  "  Be  a  miser  with 
vinegar,  a  counsellor  with  salt,  a  spendthrift  with  oil, 
and  a  madman  with  stirring."  Let  the  oil  be  of  the  first 
quality  of  genuine  olive  oil. 

SWEET  DRESSING. 

INGREDIEKTS. 
1  pint  Water  and  the  Syrup       Juiee  of  a  Lemon  or  Orange. 

from  a  tin  of  Fruit.  Little  Sherry  or  Brandy 

4  ins.  Cinnamon  Stick.  (if  liked). 

8  ozs.  Sugar  (loaf). 

Place  all  in  a  pan  except  wines.  Dissolve  sugar, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  skim  well.  Boil  quickly  till 
reduced  to  half  quantity  and  of  an  oily  consistency,  add 
wine,  cool.      Pour  over  fruit.      Colour  dressing  (if  liked). 


168     HOVSEEOLD  COOKBB:Z  —  VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

COOKED   DRESSING    (1). 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Flour.  2- Yolks. 

i  gill  Cream.  1  table-spoonful  Vinegar. 

i  teaspoonful  Mustard.  1  dessert-spoonful  Sugar. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Boiling  Water  (about  i  pint). 

iMelt  butter,  add  flour,  then  add  the  boiling  water. 
Stir  in  mustard,  sugar,  and  vinegar,  and  boil;  add  yolks, 
and  lastly,  eream;  re-oook.  Bottle  and  keep  in  cool 
place.      If  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  cream. 

COOKED   DRESSING    (2^. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Yolks  of  3  Eggs.  1  teaspoonful  Salt. 

1  table-spoonful  Oil.  1  teaspoonful  made  Mustard. 

1  table-spoonful   Sugar.  1  giU  Vinegar. 

i  pint  Milk  or.. Cream. 

Make  sugar,  oil,  salt,  and  mustard  iatp  a  smooth  paste, 
add  eggs,  vinegar,  and  milk.  Put  into  a  basin  and  place 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Stir  occasionally  till  slightly 
thick. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  HOT  PUDDINGS.       169 

HOT    PUDDINGS, 

MILK   PUDDINGS. 

Average  Proportions:  — 

IJ  ozs.  rarinaceoua  Pood  Stuff. 

1  pint  Milk. 

1  dessert-ispoonfiil  Sugar. 

RICE    PUDDINGS    (WITHOUT   EGGS). 

'  INGREDIENTS. 

li  ozs.  Bice.  1  pint  Skim  Milk, 

i  oz.  Suet,  finely  chopped.        Little  Nutmeg  or  Cinnamon, 
i  oz.  Sugar. 

Wash  the  rice  well  and  put  all  together  in  a  greased 
pie-dish.       Bake  for  3  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

TAPIOCA   PUDDING    (1). 

INGREDIENTS, 
li  ozs.  Tapioea.  A  little  flavouring. 

1  pint  MUk.  A  Ijttle  Margarine,  Butter 

i  oz.  Sugar.  or  chopped  Suet. 

Grease  the  pie-dish.  Wash  the  tapioea  and  soak  with 
water  in  a  covered  basin  for  1  hour.  Place  in  pie-dish, 
put  suet  on  top,  add  milk  and  flavouring,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  slowly  from  2  to  3  hours.  Stir 
occasionally  until  the  skin  begins  to  form  on  top  of 
pudding.       Fine  sago  may  be  used  similarly. 

SEMOLINA   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

li  OZS.  Semolina.  i   oz.  Sugar. 

1  Egg.  1  pint.  Milk. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  saucepan,  sprinkle  in  the  semolina, 
bring  slowly  to  boiling  point.       Simmer  till  the  grain  is 


170       SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT~SOT  PUDDINGS. 

soft  (about  10  minutes),  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove 
pan  from  fire,  add  sugar,  allow  to  eool  a  little,  beat  egg, 
and  add  carefully  to  pudding,  stirring  well.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  pie-disb.  Bake  in  a  brisk  oven  20  minutes. 
Other  milk  puddings  may  be  made  similarly. 

BIRD'S   NEST   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENM. 

Apples  according  to  size  of  Pinch  Salt. 

dish   (peeled  and  cored).  l.plnt  Milk, 

li  ozs.  Fine  Sago.  1  oz.  chopped  Suet  or 
1  table-spoonful  Sugar.  Margarine. 

Place  the  prepared  apples  in  a  greased  pie^dish,  add 
sago,  salt,  suet,  sugar  and  milk.  Fill  up  the  cores  of 
the  apples  with  sugar..  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
cook  about  IJ  hours.  Stir  frequently  untU  skin  forms 
on  top  of  the  pudding. 

PLAIN   BOILED   RICE    (SWEET). 

INGREDIENTS. 

li   ozs.  Carolina  Rice.  J  oz.  Sugar. 

1  pint  Milk. 

Wash  rice  well-  and  place  in  pan  with  water,  bring  to 

boiling  point,   pour  off  the  water,   add  mUk.       Simmer 

_very  slowly  with  lid  on  till  quite  tender,  about  2  hours. 

Add  sugar,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold  in  a  rough  heap. 

PLAIN   BOILED   BARLEY    CSWEET). 

Prepare  exactly  as  for  Boiled  Rice. 
N.B. — ^An  egg  may  be   added  to  rice   or  barley,   and 
finished  as  semolina  pudding. 

MILK   MOULDS. 

Average  Proportions  for  Milk  Moulds:  — 

li   ozs.  Fine  Powders  to   1   pint  Milk. 
3   ozs.   Larger   Grains   to    1    pint   Milk. 


EOUSEHOLiy  COOKEB¥  —  HOT  PUDDINGS.       171 
CORNFLOUR   MOULD    (1). 

INGEEDIENTS. 
1  pint  Milk.  '  Some  grated  Lemon  Bind. 

IJ  ozs.  Cornflour.  1  table-spoonful  Sugar. 

1  pinch  Salt. 

Put  most  of  the  milk  on  to  heat.  Blend  cornflour 
with  the  rest  of  the  milk,  to  which  add  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  grated  lemon  rind.  Pour  heated  milk  on  to  it  and 
then  return  to  pan.  Stir  until  it  comes  to  boiling  point, 
boil  3  minutes,  add  sugar,  turn  at  once  into  a  wetted 
mould.      When  quite  cold,  turn  out. 

Ground  Rice  Mould  is  made  in  the  same  way,  but 
must  be  boiled  10  minutes.       Serve  with  stewed  fruit. 

PLAIN   RICE    MOULD. 

Prepare  as  for  plain  boiled  rice,  using  3  ozs.  rice  to 
1  pint.  When  tender,  pour  into  wetted  mould.  Set, 
turn  out,  and  serve  with  stewed  fruit  or  jam. 


CUSTARD    PUDDINGS. 
STEAMED   CUSTARD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Egg.  Little  Sugar. 

i  pint  Milk.  Flavouring   (if  liked). 

Beat  the  egg  slightly,  add  the  sugar  and  milk,  and 
allow  the  custard  to  stand  aside  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved ; 
strain.  Butter  a  large  cup  or  very  small  bowl,  strain 
the  custard  in,  twist  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  over  the 
top  of  the  cup,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water — 
the  water  coming  half-way  up  the  cup.  Draw  the  sauce- 
pan "to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  allow  the- custard  to  remain 
there  tUl  firm,  which  will  be  about  20  minutes;  do  not 
on  any  account  allow  the  water  to  boil  while  the  custard 


172       BOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  ROT  PUDDINGS. 

is  steaming,  or  it  will  be  full  of  holes.  When  custard 
is  firm,  serve  either  hot  or  cold  turned  out  or  in  the  cup 
or  basin  in  which  it  was  steamed. 

BAKED   CUSTARD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Eggs.  1  pint  Milk. 

1  table-spoonful  Sugar.  Little  Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar;  stir  the  milk  on  the 
beaten  eggs.  Strain  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pie-dish, 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over,  and  bake  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  liked,  the  milk  may  be 
warmed  before  pouring  over  the  eggs,  and  the  custard 
sets  more  quickly. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Egg.  2   slices  thin  Bread  and 

1  tal)le-spoonful  Sugar.  Butter. 

J  pint  Milk.  1  oz.  Currants. 

■  Make  the  custard  and  stir  occasionally  till  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Strain.'  Cut  the  bread  and  butter  in  small 
squares,  and  lay  it  in  a  buttered  pie-dish.  Sprinkle 
currants  between,  adding  a  little  chopped  peel,  if  liked. 
Pour  custard  over,  and  let  it  soak  into  bread  for  half 
an  hour.  Bake  in  a  brisk  oven  until  pudding  has  nicely 
risen,  and  is  set.  It  takes  from  about  30  to  40  minutes. 
Stale  cookies  or  dry  white  cake  may  be  used  in  this  way. 


STEAMED  BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

Make  as  for  baked  bread  and  butter  pudding,  using, 
however,  only  half  quantity  of  liquid.  Steam  gently  in 
a  greased  basin  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  HOT  PUDDINGS.       173 
STEAMED   OR   BOILED    PUDDINGS. 
SUET   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  A  very  little  Salt. 

3  ozs.  Suet.  Water  or  Milk. 

1  teaspoonful  Baking 
Powder. 

Chop  the  suet  very  finely,  mix  the  dry  ingredients 
together,  make  into  a  soft  dough  with  the  water.  Dip 
the  pudding  cloth  in  boiling  water,  flour  it  well,  put  in 
the  pudding  and^tie  it  up  securely,  leaving  room  for  it 
to  swell.  Place  in  a  pan  with  plenty  of  boiling  water 
and  boil  2  hours.      Turn  out.       Serve  with  ssorup  or  jam. 

N.B. — The  pudding  may  be  ma:de  lighter  by  using  half  • 
flour  and  half  breadcrumbs,  and,  if  liked,  3  ozs.  of  sugar 
may  be  included  in  the  ingredients. 

PLAIN   CURRANT   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Aa  for  Suet  Pudding,  plus  3  ozs.  Currants  or  Sultanas. 

Clean  the  currants;  mix  all  as  for  suet  pudding.      Place 

in  a  greased  basin,  cover  with  a  cloth  scalded  and  floured 

and  boil,  or  cover  with  greased  paper  and  steam  3  hours. 

Allow  to  shrink  before  turning  out ;  serve  with  syrup  sauce. 

N.B. — Any  other  dried  fruits  may  be  used  in  same 
proportion  and  variety  given,  e.g.,  chopped  dates,  figs, 
prunes,  raisins. 

N.B. — This  pudding  is  much  lighter  if  i  lb.  breadcrumbs 
is  used  with  i  lb.  flour,  instead  of  i  lb.  flour. 


174      SOUSEEOLD  COOKERY  —  BOX  PUDDINGS. 
ROLY-POLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Suet  Pastry  (see  2  or  3  taWe-spoonfuls  Jam. 

page  501). 

Roll  out  pastry  on  a  floured  board  into  a  long  strip 
(twice  as  long  as  broad).  Spread  with  jam  to  within 
half  an  inch  of  the  edge.  Wet  the  edges,  roll  up  the 
strip,  press  the  edges  tf^ether.  Dip  a  pudding  cloth  in 
boiling  water,  flour  it  well,  put  in  the  roly,  roll  firmly 
and  tie  secnrly  at  the  ends.  Place  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  boil  for  li  hours,  take  off  the  cloth,  and  place  the 
roly  in  a  hot  dish.       Serve  with  sweet  sauce  if  liked. 

N.B. — ^A  richer  paste  can  be  made  by  using  1  oz.  more 
of  suet. 

JAM   LAYER   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Suet  Pastry.  "  Some  stiff  Jam. 

.» 
Divide  the  pastry  into  three  or  four  before  rolling  out. 

Put  a  good  spoonful  of  jam  at  the  bottom  of  basin,  roll 

out  one  piece  of  pastry,  cut  out  a  round  and  put  it  on 

top  of  jam ;  "then  more  jam  and  more  pastry,  and  continue 

to  do  this  until  the  basin  is  full,  finishing  with  a  lid  of 

pastry.       Cover  and  steam  3  hours. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  basin  may  be  lined  "first,  and  spoonful 

of  jam  placed  in,  then  a  round  of  pastry,  and  so  on, 

finishing  up  with  a  round  of  pastry. 

TREACLE    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  riour.  Milk  to  mix  (about  1  gHl). 

3  ozs.  Suet.  1  teaspoonful  Ground  Ginger. 

2    ozs.    Treacle    (may  be  Pinch  Salt. 

mixture    of   syrup    aud  J    teaspoonful   Bi-carbonate 

treacle).  of  Soda. 

1  Egg  (if  liked). 

Shred  and  chop  suet  finely.  Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients 
m  a  basin,  and  egg   (if  used),  treacle  and  milk.       Mix 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  H^T  PUDDINGS.      175 

to  a  soft  consistency.  Pour  into  a  greased  basin,  cover 
with  a  greased  paper,  steam  2  to  3  hours.  Serve  with 
treacle  or  syrup  sauce  {see  page  240).  ' 

BOILED    FRUIT   PUDDING. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Suet  Pastry. 

Any  Fruit  in  Season  for  filling  (1  lb.). 

Sugar  and  Water. 

Prepare  the  fruit  according  to  its  kind.  Line  the  basin 
with  the  pastry,  reserving  a  piece  for  lid,  put  in  half 
the  fruit,  then  add  the  sugar,  remainder  of  fruit,  and  a 
little  water  if^  necessary.  Cover  with  the  pastry  lid, 
then  cover  with  scalded  and  floured  pudding  cloth  and 
boil  2  to  3  hours. 

BROWN    PUDDING    (PLAIN). 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  OZS.  Breadcrumbs.  2  ozs.  Suet. 

2  ozs.  Wheaten  Meal.  1  oz.  Eaisins. 

2  ozs.  Flour.  J  teaspoonful  Spice. 

1  oz.  Brown  Sugar.  IJ  ozs.  Peel. 

i  oz.  -Syrup.  Pinch  Salt. 

Grated  Carrot  (small).  Milk  to  mix. 
J  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 
of  Soda. 

Chop  suet,  stone  raisins,  and  chop,  also  peel.  Mix 
dry  ingredients,  add  syrup  and  milk  to  make  to  a  soft 
consistency,  turn  into  a  greased  tin  mould  or  basin,  and 
steam  4  hours.       Serve  with  suitable  sauce. 


SEVEN 

CUP 

PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

cupful 
cupful 
cupful 

Flour. 
Breadcrumbs. 

Suet. 

1  cupful  Currants. 
i  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 
of  Soda. 

cupful  Sugar, 
cupful  Milk. 

1  teaspoonful  Ground 
Cinnamon. 

cupful  Raisins. 

1  Egg.. 

Make  as 

i   for  brown 

puddii 

ng.       Steam   4  to  5  hou: 

176       HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  HOT  PUDDINGS. 

SCRAP   BREAD    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Crusts  Bread.  3  ozs.  Suet. 

3  ozs.  Sugar.  3  ozs.  Currants. 

3  ozs.  Kaisins.  1  oz.  chopped  Peel. 

1  small  teaspoonful  Ground      1  teaspoonful  Mixed  Spies. 

Ginger.  Shake  of  Pepper, 

i  teaspoonful  Ground  Little  Milk. 

'Cinnamon.  1  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate  of 

1  Egg  (if  liked).  Soda. 

Weigh  the  bread  and  soak  as  long  as  possible  in  cold 
water.  Squeeze  dry  and  crumble  it  with  a  fork.  Chop 
the  suet,  stone  the  raisins,  and  chop  a  little.  Clean  the 
currants,  chop  the  peel,  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients,  except 
the  soda.  Mix  soda  with  a  little  milk,  add  it  to  the 
mixture,  and  if  egg  is  used  add  it.  Mix  all  thoroughly, 
and  turn  into  a  greased  basin  and  steam  2i  to  3  hours. 
Let  shrink,  turn  out,  and  serve  with  sauce. 


BAKED    SCRAP   BREAD   PUDDING. 

Same  mixture  as  above,  made  rather  more  moist.  The 
pudding  is  placed  in  a  greased  pie-dish  and  baked  in 
rather  a  hot  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


STEAMED   GROUND   RICE   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Bice.  2  ozs.  Baisins. 

2  ozs.  Flour.  2  ozs.  Suet. 

2  ozs.  Brown  Sugar.  f  teacupful  Milk. 

i   teaspoonful   Bi-carbonate  Pinch  Salt. 

of  Soda.  , 

Stone  and  chop  the  raisins.  Chop  the  suet  very  finely. 
Mix  dry  ingredients  well  together.  Add  the  milk,  making 
the  mixture  very  moist.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  greased 
tin,  cover  with  greased  paper,  and  steam  3  hours. 


BOUBEHOLD  COOKEBY —  EOT  PUDDINGS.      177 

PLAIN   PLUM   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour, 
i  lb.  Suet. 
i  lb.  Raisins. 

2  ozs.  Brown  Sugar. 
1  Lemon. 

3  teaspoonful   Bi-carbonate 
of  Soda. 

Little  Milk. 


i  lb.  Breadcrumbs. 

i  lb..  Currants. 

2  ozB.  Mixed  Peel. 

i  teaspoonful  Mixed  Spice. 

1  or  2  Eggs. 
Pinch  Salt. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Treacle. 


Mince  the  suet  and  candied  peel  very  finely,  wash  and 
di'y  the  currants,  stone  the  raisins  and  cut  them  through. 
Put  the  flour  into  a  basin,  mix  it  with  the  breadcrumbs, 
sugar,  and  suet.  Add  the  fruit,  lemon  rind  (grated), 
soda,  salt,  and  spice;  mix  thoroughly.  Beat  up  the  egg 
well  and  add  a  little  milk  to  it.  Add  the  lemon  juice 
to  the  dry  ingredients  in  the  basin  and  add  the  treacle, 
and  mix  all  to  a  soft  paste  with  the  egg  and  milk,  adding 
more  milk  if  required.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  greased 
basin,  and  steam  or  boil  the  pudding  for  4  hours. 


COTTAGE    PUDDING. 


INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour. 

2  ozs.  Butter. 
Small  teaspoonful  Cream  of 

Tartar. 
2  table-spoonfuls  Sugar. 


Small  teaspoonful 

Bi-earbonate  of  Soda. 
Breakfast-cupful  of 

Buttermilk. 


Eub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  mix  dry  ingredients,  make 
into  a  dough  with  the  milk.  Grease  a  pudding  basin, 
half  fill  with  the  dough,  twist  a  greased  paper  over  the 
top;  steam  for  2i  hours.       Serve  with  syrup  or  jam. 


178       HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  HOT  PUDDINGS. 

RAILWAY   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  bieakf ast-eupfuls  of  Flour.     3  teaspoonfuls  Baking 
1  breakfast-cupful  Sugar  Powder, 

(short  measure).  2  Eggs. 

1  teacupful  Milk. 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients.  Beat  eggs  very  well,  and  add 
the  milk  to  them.  Mix  all  ta  a  moist  consistency,  and 
bake  in  a  shallow  tin  for  15  minutes  ia  a  quick-  oven. 
Split  open  with  a  hot  knife,  spread  with  jam  or  stewed 
fruit.       Cut  in  pieces,  and  sift  sugar  over. 


STEWED   FRUITS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Average  Proportions:  — 
1  lb.  Fruit  (fresh).  i  pint  Water. 

3  to  4  ozs.  Sugar. 

Juicy  fresh  fruits,  use  only  1  gill  water. 

STEWED   APPLES    (FRESH). 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  lb.  Apples,  pared  cored  3  to  4  ozs.  Sugar, 

and  sliced.  2  giUs  Water. 

Put  all  into  a  lined  stewpan  .and  cook  gently  until  the 
apples  are  soft.  Rhubarb,  green  gooseberries,  currants, 
raspberries,  plums,  etc.,  can  be  stewed  in  the  same  way, 
observing  the  above  notes  on  proportions.  The  quantity 
of  sugar  and  water  varies  with  the'  different  fruits.  Fruit 
can  be  stewed  in  a  jar  in  the  oven  instead  of  in  a  stewpan. 

Average  Proportions:  — 

1  lb.  Fruit  (dried).  i  pint  Water. 

2  ozs.  Sugar. 

STEWED    PRUNES. 

Wash  and  soak  the  primes  in  the  measured  water  over- 
night, place  in  pan  with  sugar  and  strip  of  lemon  rind 


BOVSESOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOT  PUDDINGS.       179 

if  liked.       Cook  very  slowly  till  tender,  1  hour.       Cool 
and  serve.       Other  dried  fruits  are  done  similarly. 


SWISS   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Stewed  Apples.  3  table-spoonfuls  Brown 
i  lb.  Breadcrumbs.  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Suet.  i  oz.  Butter. 

Stew  the  apples  till  tender.  Chop  the  suet  .finely,  and 
mix  with  the  breadcrumbs  and  sugar.  Grease  a  pie-dish. 
Put  half  the  mixture  at  the  bottom,  then  put  in  the  stewed 
apples  and  then  rest  of  the  mixture.  Break  the  butter 
in  small  pieces  and  place  on  top.  Bake  half  an  hour  in 
a  sharp  oven. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  above  may  be  put  in  in  layers. 

i 

SAGO   AND    RHUBARB   MOULD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Rhubarb.  Strips  Lemon  Bind. 

3  ozs.  Fine  Sago.  Little  Colouring  if 
1  gill  Water.  Rhubarb  is  green. 
i  lb.  Sugar. 

Cook  the  rhubarb  for  five  minutes  with  water,  add  washed 
sago  and  lemon  rind.  Simmer  half  an  hour,  taking  care 
it  does  not  burn.  Remove  the  peel;  put  in  the  sugar 
and  colouring.  Turn  into  a  wetted  mould.  When  cold, 
turn  out  and  serve  with  custard  sauce. 

LEMON   SAGO. 

INGREDIENTS. 

li  OZS.  Sago.  1  Lemon. 

i  oz.  Sugar.  1  table-spoonful  Golden 

1  pint  Water.  Syrup. 

Wash  sago,  then  sprinkle  into  boiling  water  and  cook 
gently  till  quite  clear  and  thickened,  add  grated  rind  and 


180      MOUSEBOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOT  PUDDINGS. 

jaice  of  lemon  and  syrup.  Serve  cold.  If  liked,  this 
may  be  placed  into  a  wetted  mould,  and  when  cold 
turned  out. 

COLD   FRUIT   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  pint  Kaspberries.    y  J  pint    i  pint  Water. 

1  pint  Red  Currants.  /  Juiee.      IJ  ozs.  Com  Fiour. 

i  lb.  Sugar.  Pew  drops  of  Cochineal. 

Stew  the  fruit  and  sugar  together  till  soft,  rub  through , 
a  hair  sieve,  mix  the  cornflower  with  the  water,  add  to 
the  strained  fruit,  boil  for  a  few  minutes.       Colour  with 
a  few   drops  cochineal,   pour  into  a  wetted  mould,   put 
aside  to  firm. 

N.B. — If  preferred,  1  oz.  gelatine  can  be  used  instead 
of  the  cornflour.  There  must  be  1  pint  of  fruit  juice 
and  water  before  adding  cornflour. 

MALVERN   OR  WAKEFIELD   PUDDING. 

IliiGEEDIENTS. 

3  to  4  slices  Stale  Bread.  1  teaeupful  Black  Currants. 

1  teaeupful  Raspberries.  J  teaeupful  Sugar.         ^ 

1  teacupiful  Red  Currants. 

Prepare  the  fruit  and  stew  till  soft,  with  the  sugar. 
Cut  a  round  of  bread  and  fit  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  pint 
basin.  'Cut  some  fingers  of  bread  and  fit  4^em  tightly 
round  the  sides  of  the  basin.  Fill  tip  the  centre  with 
layers  of  bread  and  stewed  fruit  while  hot.  Cover  the 
top  with  a  round  slice  ©if  bread.  Cover  with  a  plate; 
set  weights  on""this.  Put  aside  tUl  perfectly  cold.  Turn 
out  and  serve  with  custard,  milk  or  cream.  If  the  fruit 
is  very  watery,  the  plate  must  be  lifted  off,  and  any 
superfluous  liquor  poured  off.  If  it  is  too  soft  it  will 
■not  turn  out.  The  bread  must  be  thinly  cut  or  the  fruit 
will  not  soak  through.      Any  fruit  in  season  can  be  used. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  HOT  PUDDINGS.      181 
FRUIT  TART. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  (seasonable)  Fruit.  Water  (if  necessary). 

About  i  lb.  Sugar.  6  ozs.  Short  Pastry. 

Prepare  fruit.  Half  fill  pie-dish,  then  add  sugar,  a 
little  water,  and  pile  up  fruit. 

Roll  out  pastry  on  a  floured  board  to  size  larger  than 
pie-dish.  Cut  off  a  strip  of  pastry,  wet  the  edges  of 
the  pie-dish,  and  lay  on  the  strip  of  paste.  Wet  that 
again,  cover  the  tart  with  the  remainder  of  the  paste. 
Trim  off  the  rou^  edges,  mark  with  a  teaspoon.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  about  half  an  hour.  When  ready,  make 
a  small  slit  at  either  end  and  allow  steam  to  escape. 
Before  serving,  sprinkle  over  with  sugar.  Any  fruit  in 
season  can  be  used. 

APPLE   BALLS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  to  5  large  Apples  or  6  small  Apples. 

1  to  2  ounces  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Pastry  to  each  large  Apple. 

Make  some  short  crust,  allowing  2  ozs.  fl:our  for  each 
apple.  Core  and  peel  the  apples  without  breaking  them. 
Divide  the  paste.  Place  an  apple  on  each  piece  and  work 
the  pastry  lightly  round.  Fill  up  the  hole  in  the  apple 
with  sugar,  and  1  clove  if  liked.  Join  the  edges  of  the 
paste  all  over  the  apple;  there  must  be  no  cracks. 

Place  on  a  greased  tin  and  bake  from  half  to  three- 
quarters,  of  an  hour  in  a  sharp  oven,  or  until  the  fruit 
is  cooked. 

SYRUP    PASTRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

12  ozs.  Short  Crust.  Grated  rind  and  juice  of 

8  table-spoonfuls  Syrup.  2  Lemons. 

6  ozs.  Breaderambs. 

Mix  to  a  thick  paste.  Roll  out  the  pastry  into  two 
thin  sheets  about  ten  inches  square,  top  rather  smaller; 


182       HOUSEHOLD  COOKMIRY  —  HOT  PUDDINGS. 

wet  the  edges  of  one  sheet,  aftei;  placing  it  on  tin.  Spread 
syrup  mixture  over  to  within  one  inch  of  the  edges. 
Place  second  sheet  on  top  and  turn  edges  over.  Mark 
into  squares.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  golden^brown 
colour  all  over.  Cover  with  paper,  and  bake  from  half 
to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Cut  into  squares  and  dust 
with  castor  sugar. 

N.B. — This  may  be  made  as  an  open  tart  on  an  ashet. 
JAM   TURNOVERS. 

INGKEDIENTS. 
Short  Oust.  Little  Jam. 

Roll  out  pastry,  cut  with  a  cutter.  Put  a  little  jam 
in  the  centre  of  each  round,  wet  the  edges,  fold  over, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  ' 

BATTERS. 
PANCAKE  BATTER. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 
i  lb.  Flour.  i  pint  Milk. 

1  Egg.  Pinch  Salt. 

Mix  ttffi  flour  and  salt  together;  drop  the  egg  into 
centre  with  one-third  of  the  mUk,  make  a  smooth  paste 
without  any  Ivunps.  Beat  well,  adding  gradually  the 
rest  of  the  milk.  Let  it  stand  at  least  half-an-hour 
covered,  in  a  cold  place.  Use  as  required  fdr  the 
following : — 

PANCAKES. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

i  pint  Batter.  ,  Sugar. 

Iiemon  Juice.  Lard  to  Pry. 

Melt  lard  into  a  frying-pan  (a  piece  about  the  size  of 
a  small  nut).       When  it  is  hot  pour  in  a. little  batter, 


EOUSEBOLD  COOKEET  —  SOT  PUDDINGS.       183 

just  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  When 
the  batter  is  set,  shake  it  loose.  When  brown,  toss  it 
over  and  brown  on  the  other  side,  draia  on  paper,  sprinkle 
with  white  sugar  and  little  lemon  juice,  roll  up;  keep 
hot  while  the  rest  of  the  pancakes  are  being  fried.  Serve 
very .  hoi. 

N.B. — Jam  or  marmalade  may  be  used  instead  of  lemon 
and  sugar. 

STEAMED    BATTER   PUDDING. 

Make  the  batter  as  for  pancakes;  pour  into  a  greased 
basin;  steam  for  1  hour.       For  Black  Cap  Pudding, 

sprinkle  a  few  currants  into  the  batter  before  steaming. 

YORKSHIRE    PUDDING    (A). 

Batter  as  above;  pour  into  dripping-tin  in  which  there 
is  1  oz.  hot  dripping.  Bake  about  half  an  hour  in  a 
quick  oven,  or  cook  it  under  the  meat.  Serve  with  roast 
beef.  All  batters  are  improved  by  standing  in  a  cool 
place  before  cooking.  They  must  be  served  immediately 
they  are  cooked. 

YORKSHIRE    PUDDING    (B). 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  ozs.  Flour.  1  Egg. 

li  gills  Milk.  Salt. 

Blend  flour  with  egg  and  half  a  gill  of  mUk.  BoU 
remainder  of  milk  and  add  to  blended  flour.  Pour  into 
tin  with  smoking  hot  fat  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about 
half  an  hour. 


184      EOUSEEOLD  C00KEB7  —  B0T  PUDDINGS. 
OMELETS. 

RULES   FOR   OMELET   MAKING. 

1.  Tte  pan  must  be  perfectly  clean  and  not  used  for  any 

other    puTpoae,    and    must    never    be    washed,    but    cleaned 

immediately  after  cooking  by  wiping  round  with  soft  paper. 

I  2.  All   ingredients    (eggs    and   butter)    must    be   perfectly 

fresh. 

3.  Eggs  should  be  beaten  with  a  fork,  and  only  sufficiently 
to  mix,  not  to  make  frothy. 

4.  A  little  milk,  cream,  or  water  should  be  added  when 
beating  the  eggs,  this  makes  lighter  and  more  moist  omelets. 

5.  The  oil  or  butter  for  cooking  must  not  be  too  hot  when 
eggs  are  put  into  pan. 

6.  An  omelet  must  be  quickly  made  aver  a  clear  fire.  The 
stirring   and   shaking   processes   must   be  quickly  performed. 

7.  When  the  eggs  show  signa  of  slightly  setting,  shape 
the  omelet  by  folding  in  the  ends  so  as  to  form  a  kind  of 
oval  shape,  this  is  done  at  side  of  pan  furthest  from  handle. 

8.  Shake  pan,  see  that  omelet  is  perfectly  loose  and  a 
golden-brown  colour. 

9.  Serve  immediately. 

SAVOURY   OMELET. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Eggs.  Seasoning. 

1  teaspoonful  finely  chopped  If  ozs.  Butter  (short 

Parsley.        ,  measure). 
Pinch  Thyme. 

Beat  eggs.  Add  parsley,  thyme,  seasoning,  also  half 
the  butter  in  pieces. 

Melt  the  rest  of  the  butter  in  a  pan  and  when  just 
frizzling  pour  in  the  mixture. 

Draw  a  fork  through  the  mixture  until  it  begins  to  set, 
pan  must  be  in  constant  motion.  When  lightly  set,  fold 
in  edges  with  a  knife.  Turn  on  to  a  hot  dish.  Serve 
at  once. 


BOUSEEOLD  COOKEEY —  HOT  PUDDINOS.       185 

FARCED   OMELET. 

When  forming  into  oval  shape,  place  hot  cooked  faroo 
into  centre  and  fold  over  and  serve. 


SWEET  OMELET. 

Omit  savoury  ingredients  and  add  1  oz.  sugar  and  fold 
in  hot  jam.  . 

OMELET   SOUFFLE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Yolks.  i  oz.  Clarified  Butter  or 

3  Wliites.  Salad  Oil. 
1  teaspoonful  Sugar.                   Jam. 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks,  add  sugar  to  the 
yolks  and  beat  well.  Whisk  up  whites  to  a  very  stiff 
froth,  lightly  fold  the  two  together.  Melt  the  butter  in 
an  omelet  pan.  When  just  melted,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  cook  lightly  till  nicely  set  and  browned.  Cook  the 
upper  side  under  the  grill  or  in  front  of  a  clear  fire  or 
in  the  oven.  Turn  right  over  on  to  a  sugared  paper, 
make  an  incision  in  centre  and  put  a  teaspoonful  of  warmed 
jam  in  centre.  .  Fold  over,  sift  with  sugar  on  top  and 
serve  at  once. 

RUM   OMELET. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  Eggs.  1  oz.  Sugar. 

1  table-spoonful  Bum.  i  oz.  Butter  (clarified). 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks.  Add  sugar  to 
the  yolks  and  beat  well.  Whisk  the  whites  stiffly  and 
add  rum  to  the  yolks.  Fold  in  the  whites.  Melt  the 
butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  pour  in  egg  mixture.  Cook 
over  a  moderate  heat  till  nicely  set  and  browned.  Have 
ready  a  little  warm  jam,  place  in  the  centre  of  omelet 
and  fold  over.      Sift  with  sugar. 


186       BOUSEMOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOT  PUDDINGS. 

SOUFFLES. 
GENERAL   FOUNDATION   PROPORTIONS. 

FOUNDATION. 


Panada — 


IJ  ozs.  Butter. 
IJ  ozs.  Flour. 

2  gills  Liquid  (may  be  Milk,  Stock,  or 
Fruit  Juice  or  Syrup). 


DISTINCTIVE   INGREDIENTS. 
Liquids. — 1  teaspoonful  to  2  table-spoonfuls  according  to 
strength  and  nature  of  Liquid  used. 

Solids. — 4  to  6  ozs.  finely-divided  Meat,  Fish,  Game,  fresh 
or  preserved  Fruits. 

Seasonings. — Salt,   Pepper,  1  teaspoonful   Vinegar,  or  S 
ozs.  Sugar,  according  to  requirements. 

Raising  Agents.-^3  Tolks  and  4  Whites  of  Eggs. 

Souffles  take  their  name  from  distinctive  ingredients 
used,  e.g.,  Vanilla  Souffle,  Fish  Souffle,  Cherry  Souffle. 

Method  for  Souffles. — Melt  the  "butter,  add  the  flour,  and* 
cook  slightly;  add  liquid  and  cook  thoroughly,  add  dis- 
tinctive ingredients,  and  seasonings  and  yolks;  lastly,  add 
the  stiffly-beaten  whites ;  mix  lightly.  Pftur  into  prepared 
souffle  tin,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  cook  in  a  steamer 
for  40  to  45  minutes.  Allow  to  shrink.  Turn  out  very 
carefully.      Serve  with  suitable  sauce. 

Farinaceous  Souffles  take  their  name  according  to 
farinaceous  substance  used  for  foundation,  e.g.,  Sago  SoufElfi, 
Semolina  Souffle,  etc. 

INGREDIENTS. 
Foundation. — li    to    2    ozs.    Farinaceous    Substance    to 
'1  pint  Milk  and  i  oz.  Butter. 

Raising  Agents. — 3  Yolks  and  4  Whites  of  Eggs. 
Flavouring. — As  desired. 

Method. — Boil  the  milk.  Blend  the  farinaceous  food- 
stuff with   a  little  milk,   then   pour  the  hot  milk  on  it. 


HOVSESOLD  COOKEBY  —  EOT  PUDDINGS.      187 

Cook  thorougUy  till  as  thick  as  an  ordinary  panada. 
When  well  cooked,  add  sugar,  hutter,  and  flavouring,  and 
when  cool  enough,  the  beaten  eggs  (yolks).  Lastly,  fold 
in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites.  Have  a  tin  prepared  and 
turn  the  mixture  into  it.  Cover  with  buttered  paper. 
Steam  1  hour.  Serve  with  marmalade,  arrowroot  or  wine 
sauce. 

I£  a  more  solid  article  is  desired,  use  fewer  eggs  or 
double  quantity  of  panada. 

N.B. — Any  of  the  above  souffles  may  be  baked,  in  a 
souffle  tin  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHOCOLATE   SOUFFLE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Cake  crumbs.  }  gill  Milk. 

2  ozs.  grated  Chocolate.  2  Yolks  Egg. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  2  Whites  Egg. 

li  ozs.  Sugar.  Vanilla  Essence. 

Heat  butter  and  milk  together.  Stir  in  grated  chocolate 
and  sifted  crumbs.  Stir  till  mixture  thickens  and  leaves 
the  sides  of  the  pan.  Cool,  add  sugar  and  vanilla  and 
yolks.  Fold  in  carefully  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour* 
into  prepared  souffle  tin  and  steam  gently  about  1  hour. 
Turn  out,  and  sauce  over  with  chocolate  sauce.  Decorate 
with  chopped  pistachio  nuts. 

HOT   PUDDINGS. 
BAKED. 

COCOANUT   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  pint  Milk.  Little  grated  Lemon  Bind. 

2  ozs.  Cocoanut.  1  oz.  Butter. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  2  Eggs. 
1  oz. 


Boil  milk  and  pour  over  breadcrumbs,  add  butter,  sugar, 
cocoanut,  and  lemon  rind.       Separate  yolks  from  whites 


188      HOUSEHOLD  COOKEEJ  —  HOT  PUDDINGS. 

of  eggs,  and  when  mixture  has  cooled  slightly,  add  yolks 
■well  beaten.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  nntil  set.  Whip 
whites,  add  2  table-spoonfuls  sugar  to  them,  and  pile  up 
roughly  on  top  of  pudding ;  dredge  over  with  sugar.  Set 
in  a  cool  oven  until  a  light  brown  colour.  Decorate  (if 
liked)  with  coloured  cocoanut. 

QUEEN   OF   PUDDINGS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Milk.  2  Eggs. 

1  oz.  Butter.  i  oz.  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Breademmbs.  2  or  3  table-spoonfula  Jam. 

1  Lemon.  -  _ 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  butter  and  pour  over  the  bread- 
crumbs. Let  it  soak  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the 
yolks  of  the  two  eggs,  the  grated  lemon  rind,  and  the 
sugar.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pie-dish  and  bake  tUl  set. 
Take  it  out  of  the  oven,  spread  over  with  jam,  allow  to 
cool  slightly.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiffly,  add 
2  table-spoonfuls  sugar,  mix,  and  spread  over  the  top, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  a  very  pale  brown. 

BAKED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  1  oz.  Butter. 

li  ozs.  grated  Chocolate.  1  teaspooniul  Vanilla 

1  oz.  Sugar.  Essence. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Cream.  2  Eggs. 
i  pint  Milk. 

BoU  the  butter,  milk,  and  chocolate,  pour  over  bread- 
crumbs, add  sugar  and  (when  cool  enough)  the  yolks, 
cream,  and  vanilla.  Turn  into  a  well-greased  pie-dish; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Whisk  the 
whites  stiffly,  mix  in  2  table-spoonfuls  sugar  and  place 
on  top  when  the  pudding  is  set.  Sprinkle  over  a  little 
sifted  sugar  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven  till  a  pale  brown  tint. 


■EOUSEBOLD  COOKEBY  —  SOT  PUDDINGS.       189 
RICE   AND   APRICOT   PUDDING. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

2  small  Eggs.  _,      i  lb.  Stewed  Apricots. 

2  ozs.  Bice.  3   dessert-spoonfuls   Apricot 

1  pint  Milk.  Jam. 

Salt. 

Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  the  milk 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  slowly  till  thick.  Let  it 
cool,  then  add  jam  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Mix  well.  Put 
into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake.  Spread  the  apricots 
over.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  stiffly,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar.  Pile  roughly  on  top,  sift  some  sugar 
over,  and  place  in  a  cool  oven  till  crisp  and  slightly  brown. 


VERMICELLI    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

IJ  OZS.  Vermicelli.  2  Eggs. 

1  pint  Milk.  1  oz.  Butter  (if  liked). 

1  oz.  Sugar.  Vanilla  Essence. 

Boil  the  milk.  Crush  the  vermicelli  and  sprinkle  it 
in.  Cook  from  10  to  15  minutes  or  until  the  vermicelli 
is  tender.  Then  add  sugar,  butter  and  flavourings,  and 
when  cool,  the  beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  nicely  set  and  browned. 


BARLEY   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

11  ozs.  Pearl  Barley.  1  oz.  Butter. 

1  pint  Milk.  Orange  Flower  Water. 
3  Yolks  of  Eggs.  3  Whites  of  Eggs. 

2  ozs.  Sugar. 

Scald  the  barley.  Cook  in  the  milk  till  thick.  Add 
sugar,  butter,  and  yolks  of  eggs.  When  cool,  fold  in 
two  stiffly-whisked  whites.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Cover  with  meringue,  made  from  remain- 
ing white,  and  decorate. 


190       HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  HOT  PVDDINGSt 

TAPIOCA   PUDDING    (2). 

INGREDIENTS. 

IJ  ozs.  Tapioca.  i.  teaspoonful  Essence  of 

1  pint  Milk.  Lemon  or  a  little  Nutmeg. 

2  Eggs.  2  table-spoonfuls  Sugar. 
J  oz.  Butter.  A  pinch  Salt. 

Wash  and  soak  the  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  1  hour, 
put  it  on  to  boil  with  the  milk,  and  boU  till  the  tapioca 
is  clear,  stirring  frequently.  Add  the  butter,  allow  this 
to  cool  a  little,  then  add  the  eggs  (well  beaten),  sugar 
and  flavouring;  pour  into  a  greased  pie-dish,  bake  in  a 
brisk  oven  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

FRUIT  TART. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  rich  Short  Crust  {see      Sugar  to  sweeten. 

page  301).  Cold  "Water,  if  necessary. 

1  lb.  Fruit.  1  White  of  Egg. 

Roll  out  pastry  and  cover  the  tart,  using  any  fruit  in 
season.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  half  an  hour.  Take  out 
tart,  brush  over  quickly  with  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  in- 
stantly with  sifted  sugar,  replace  in  a  moderate  oven  3 
minutes  to  frost  tart. 

SPICED   APPLE   TART. 

INGREDIENTS. 

li  lbs.  Apples.  ,  1  lb.  Sugar. 

J  lb.  Dates  or  Prunes  Little  Water. 

(stoned).  J  lb.  Spiced  Pastry  {see 

1  teaspoonful  ^Ground  page  303). 

Cinnamon. 

Cut  up  apples,  dates,  or  prunes,  add  water,  and  cinnamon 
and  sugar,  and  stew  till  tender.  Make  pastry  and  divide 
into  three,  letting  one  piece  be  larger  than  the  other  two. 
Roll  out  into  a  long  strip.  Line  a  greased  or  floured  ring 
with  pastry.  Roll  out  the  second  piece  and  fit  it  in  the 
bottom.       Place  in  apple  mixture  and  cover  with  third 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  — HOT  PUDDINGS.      191 

piece.       Trim  the  edges.       Bake  one  hour  in  fairly  hot 
oven.      When  cool  ice,  or  thickly  sift  with  sugar. 

APPLE   AMBER   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Short  Pastry.  1  lb.  Apples. 

li  ozs.  Butter.  Bind  and  juiee  of  1  Lemon. 

2  Eggs.  2  table-spoonfuls  Sugar. 

Method. 

Put  on  apples,  rind,  sugar,  water  and  stew  till  slightly 
soft.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  yolks,  lemon  juice  and 
butter.  Mix  well.  Line  a  pie-dish  with  pastry  and 
ornament  the  edges.  Place  in  the  mixture.  Brush 
pastry  with  egg  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half 
an  hour.  Make  a  meringue  with  whites  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar  and  put  on  top.  Bake  in  a  cool  oven 
tni  set  and  a,  pale  brown. 

MANCHESTER   PUDDING. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

Some  Short  or  Flaky  Pastiy.  Some  grated  Lemon  Bind. 

i  pint  Milk.  1  oz.  Castor  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  2  Eggs. 

J  oz.  Butter.  Some  Raspberry  Jam. 

Heat  the  milk  with  the  lemon  rind  and  pour  over  the 
breadcrumbs.  Add  sugar,  butter,  and  the  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs.  Allow  to  stand  till  cool.  Line  sides  of  a 
pie-dish  with  the  pastry.  Spread  a  layer  of  jam  on 
the  bottom,  then  pour  in  thfe  mixture.  Bake  in  rather 
a  hot  oven  at  first,  then  in  a  more  moderate  heat,  until 
the  mixture  is  set  and  well  risen.  It  takes  about  half 
an  hour.  Whisk  the  whites  stiEfly,  add  2  table-spoonfuls 
sugar,  and  pile  on  top  of  the  pudding.  Bake  till  set 
and  lightly  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  Decorate  (if 
liked)  with  glace  cherries,  etc. 


192      SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  EOT  PUDDINGS. 
SWISS   TART. 

INGEEDIEKTS. 

Pastry. 

4  ozs.  Flour.  i  oz.  SugaT. 

2i  ozs.  Butter.  Pinch  Baking  Powder. 

Filling. 

6  Apples,  peeled  and  Juice  i  Lemon. 

quartered.  2  Whites  of  Egg. 

i  gill  Water.  4  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 
6  ozs.  Sugar. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar. .  Add  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Work  smoothly.  Line  a  flan  ring  with  ttie  pastry.  Fill 
with  baking  beans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30 
minutes.  Remove  beans  from  case.  Make  a  syrup  with 
the  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Stew  apples  in  this,, 
being  careful  not  to  break  them  down.  Whisk  whites 
stiffly.  Continue  whisking  till  |  sugar  is  added  gradually; 
fold  in  the  rest  of  the  sugar.  Fill  up  case  with  apples 
and  pipe  the  meringue  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Bake  till  set  in  a  moderate  oven  ;(20  minutes). 


MADEIRA   PUDDINa 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Short  Pastry.  i  teaspoonf  ul  Baking  Powder. 

J  lb.  Butter.  1  teaspoonful  Vanilla 

i  lb.  Sugar.  '  Essence. 

4  ozs.  Flour.  2  table-spoonfuls  Raspberry 

3  Eggs.  Jam. 

line  the  sides  of  the  pie-dish  with  pastry;  decorate  the 
edges.  Spread  jam  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie-dish.  Make 
cake  mixture  of  the  other  ingredients  by  creaming  the 
butter  and  sugar  and  adding  the  flour,  mixed  with  baking 
powder  and  well-beaten  eggs  alternately.  Lastly,  add 
essence.  PQace  mixture  in  the  lined  pie-dish  and  bake  in 
a  fairly  hot  oven  from  three-quarters  to  one  hour. 


SOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  SOT  PUDDINGS.       193 

LEMON   PIE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Short  Pastry.  1  breakf ast-eupful  Castor 

2  Eggs.  Sugar. 

2  Lemons.  J  teaspoonful  Cinnamon. 

1  gill  Cream  or  Milk.  1  oz/  Butter. 

1  table-spoonful  Cornflour. 

Roll  out  pastry  and  line  a  pie-dish  with  it.  Decorate 
edges  with  leaves  of  pastry.  Beat  two  yolks  together. 
Mix  the  cornflour,  sugar,  cinnamon,  grated  lemon  rinds 
and  juice.  Blend  with  little  cold  water  or  milk.  Pour 
boiling  milk  over,  add  butter  and  yolks.  Pour  mixture 
into  the  lined  dish.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  paste 
is  cooked.  Whisk  the  whites  stiffly.  Fold  in  two 
table-spoonfuls  castor  sugar.  PUe  on  top  of  pie.  It  is 
ready  when  set  and  tinged  a  golden  brown. 


LEMON   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  J   pint  Milk. 

3  ozs.  Sugar.  Pinch  Salt. 

Grated  Bind  of  2  Lemons.  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Yolk  of  2  Eggs.  4  ozs.  Short  Pastry. 
1  oz.  Butter. 

Place  the  breadcrumbs  and  sugar  in  a  basin.  Add 
lemon  rind.  Bring  milk  and  butter  to  the  boil  and  pour 
over  crumhs.  Add  juice  of  lemon  and  the  yolks  of  e^s. 
Cover  and  allow  to  soak.  Line  a  pie-dish  with  the  pastry. 
Decorate.  Pour  in  the  mixture.  Place  in  a  fairly  hot 
oven.  Cook  till  pastry  is  crisp  and  the  mixture  set, 
35  to  40  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs.  Add  2 
table-spoonfuls  sugar  and  form  into  a  meringue  on  top. 
Place  in  a  moderate  oven  till  set.  Decorate.  Serve 
hot  or  cold. 


194      BOVSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  SOT  PUDDINGS. 
APPLE   CHARLOTTE. 

INGKEDIENTS. 
1  lb.  Apples.  Bind  and  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

4  ozs.  Sugar.  Thin  slices  of  Bread. 

i  pint  Water.  2  pzs.  Clarified  Butter. 

Stew  the  apples  in  sugar  and  water  till  tender  and  a 
thick  pulp;  add  lemon  juice.  Dip  one  side  of  the  bread 
in  clarified  butter  and  line  bottom  and  sides  of  a  small 
round  cake-tin;  pour  in  the  pulp  and  place  a  round  of 
bread,  dipped  in  the  melted  butter,  on  top.  Bake  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven  till  brown  and  crisp.  Turn 
out  and  sift  sugar  over. 

FIG   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Pigs.  J  teaspoonful  Cream  of 
i  lb.  Suet.  Tartar. 

i  lb.  Flour.  2  Eggs. 

J  lb.  Breadcrumbs.  Buttermilk. 

i  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate  4  ozs.  Sugar, 

of  Soda.  Pinch  Salt. 

Wash  and  chop  figs  with  sugar,  shred  and  chop  the  suet, 
and  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  eggs,  add  milk 
to  them,  and  mix  to  a  soft  consistency.  Turn  into  a 
greased  mould  and  steam  for  2  hours.  Turn  out  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve  with  fig  sauce. 

rig  Sauce  (see  page  251). 

SUPERIOR  TREACLE  PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  riour.  2  ozs.  Sugar.  ,  ' 
i  lb.  Breadcrumbs.  2  table-spoonfuls  Treacle. 
}  lb.  Suet.                                   2  Eggs. 

Grated  Bind  and  Juice  of        Milk. 
1  Lemon.  J  teaspoonful  Baking  Soda. 

2  ozs.  Currants. 

Chop  the  suet  very  finely.  Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients 
together.      Add  the  beaten  eggs,  milk,  and  treacle.      Stir 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  HOT  PUDDINGS.       195 

well  together  and  mix  to  a  soft  eonsisteney.  Turn  into 
a  greased  basin  and  steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  arrow- 
root sauce. 

Arrowroot  Sauce  {see  page  249). 


PLUM    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  4  Eggs, 

i  lb.  Muscatel  Eaisins.  J  teaspoonful  Salt. 

6  ozs.  Suet.  J  glass  Brandy. 

i  lb.  Currants.  2  ozs.  Almonds. 

1  oz.  Lemon,  Orange  and  2  ozs.  Brown  Sugar. 
Citron  Peel. 

Mince  suet  very  finely.  Mix  with  breadcrumbs.  Add 
raisins  stoned  and  cut  through,  peel  cut  finely,  currants 
washed  and  dried,  and  the  salt.  Moisten  with  tlie  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and,  lastly,  add  the  brandy.  Boil  in  a 
greased  mould  or  basin  for  at  least  6  hours. 


PLAIN   CABINET   PUDDING. 

INGBBDIENTS. 

2  to  3  ozs.  Bread.  Some  large  Baisias. 

i  pint  Milk.  1  Egg. 

1    table-spoonful  Sugar. 

Stone  the  raisins  and  place  in  a  pattern  in  a  thickly- 
greased  basin.  Add  sugar  to  the  milk.  Beat  the  egg 
and  pour  the  milk  over  it.  Let  it  stand  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  stirring  occasionally.  Cut  the  bread  into 
very  small  squares,  place  in  basin  and  strain  the  custard 
over  it,  cover  with  a  greased  paper  and  let  it  stand  for 
at  least  half  an  hour.  Then  steam  gently  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Allow  to  shrink.  Turn  out  and  serve  wi'lh 
jam  or  custard  sauce. 


196      SOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  BOT  PUDDINGS. 
SUPERIOR  CABINET   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  Penny  Sponges.  Sherry  or  Almond  Essence. 

1  Egg.  Pew  Eatafia  Biscuits. 

1^  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  CSierries  and  Baislns  to 

1  gUl  Milk.  decorate. 

Beat  eggs  a  little,  add  sugar  and  milk,  and  allow  to 
stand  until  ^ugar  is  dissolved.  Better  a  plain  tin  mould. 
Line  with  thickly-buttered  paper.  Decorate  with  raisins 
(stoned)  and  cherries  (halved).  Cut  the  sponges  in  slices. 
Put  layer  of  sponge  in  bottom.  Place  round  tin  in 
alternate  colours.  Fill  up  with  strained  custard,  put 
a  few  crushed  ratafias  into  custard  and  allow  to  stand 
15  minutes.  Steam  steadily,  but  gently  1  hour.  Turn 
out,  remove  the  paper,  and  serve  with  jam  sauce. 


CONSERVATIVE   PUDDING, 

INGBEDIENTS. 

2J  OZS.  Savoy  Biscuits  or  i  pint  Milk. 

Ratafias.  1   table-spoonful  Apricot 

2  Eggs  and  1  Yolk.       ,  Jam. 

2  tablespoonfuls  Bum  or 

Brandy. 

Butter  a  souffle  tin.  Put  in  the  biscuits  in  layers  with 
a  little  apricot  jam  between.  Pour  in  the  rum  or  brandy. 
Pour  oyer  the  custard.  Allow  to  soak  half  an  hour. 
Steam  45  minutes.      Serve  with  a  nice,  sweet  sauce. 


CHERRY   PUDDING. 

mGEEDIENTS. 

1  Egg,  its  weight  in  Butter,      i  oz.  Glaefi  Cherries 

Sugar,  Flour.  (chopped). 

Finch  of  Baking  Powder.  i  pint  Jam  Sauce. 

li  teaspoonf  uls  Arrowroot. 

Make  as  for  cake  mixtures  {page  198).       Put  into  a 
greased  timbale  mould  and  bake  in  the  oven  about  25-30 


EOUSESOLD  COOKEBY  —  EOT  PUDDINGS.      197 

minutes.       Turn   out  and  coat  with  a  jam  sauce   (red), 
thickened  with  arrowroot. 

Decorate  with  rings  of  cherry  angelica  or*  chopped 
pistachio. 

VIENNOISE    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2}  ozs.  Bread  (no  crusts).  14  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

li  ozs.  Sultanas.  1  oz.  Candied  Peel. 

i   Bind  Lemon.  IJ  gills  Milk. 

i  gill  Cream.  2  Eggs. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Sherry.  Extra  i  oz.  Sugar. 

Make  caramel  with  J  oz.  sugar  and  a  little  water;  cook 
until  k  rich  brown  colour.  Allow  to  cool  slightly.  Add 
milk  to  the  caramel;  allow  to  stand  till  dissolved.  Cut 
bread  into  tiny  squares.  Place  in  a  basin  with  the  chopped 
peel  and  sultanas,  grated  lemon  rind,  and  sherry.  Pour 
milk  with  the  dissolved  caramel  over  beaten  eggs,  strain 
on  the  bread  mixture.  Cover  with  a  plate  and  allow  to 
stand  as  long  as  possible.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould, 
cover  with  greased  paper,  steam  45  minutes  or  longer, 
cooking  it  rather  quickly  for  first  10  minutes.  Let  it 
shrink,  turn  out,  and  serve  with  custard  or  whipped 
egg  sauce. 

Whipped  Egg  Sauce  (see  page  251). 

MARMALADE    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

5  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  2  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

i  pint  Milk.  2  table-spoonfuls  Marmalade. 

2  Eggs.  1  oz.  Butter. 

Warm  the  milk,  pour  over  the  breadcrumbs,  add  sugar, 
butter,  and  beaten  eggs,  and  marmalade,  which  must  be 
melted.  Turn,  into  a  well-greased  mould,  cover  with 
buttered  paper,  steam  1  hour.  Allow  to  stand  a  few 
minutes  to  shrink,  turn  out,  and  serve  with  marmalade  or 
wine  sauce  (see  Sauces). 


198       SOVSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  EOT  PUDDINGS. 

LOUISE   PUDDING, 

INGEEDIENTS. 
6  ozs.  Glac6  Cherries.  i  pint  Milk. 

3  Penny  Sponge  Cakes.  Essence  Vanilla. 

3  Eggs.  1   oz.   Sugar. 

Line  a  souffle  tin  with  buttered  paper,  then  line  the 
tin  with  glace  cherries  cut  in  three.  Make  a  custard 
with  the  eggs  and  milk,  sugar  and  essence.  Cut  the 
sponge  cakes  and  place  in  prepared  tin.  Pour  on  the 
custard.  Allow  to  stand  in  the  mould  for  half  an  hour. 
Cover  with  buttered  paper.  Steam  li  hours,  allow  to 
shrink.  Turn  out  and  pour  a  nice  sweet  sauce  round. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

LEICESTER   PUDDING.  ' 

maREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

3  ozs.  Sugar.  Powder.  • 

i  lb.  Butter.  Raspberry  Jam. 
2  Eggs. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Whisk  the 
eggs  and  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  egg 
and  flour  alternately  to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar. 
Put  some  jam  in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  basin  and  place 
the  mixture  in.  Cover  with  a  greased  paper  and  steam 
regularly  14  to  2  hours.  Turn  out,  and  spread  the  jam 
over  the  pudding. 

CAKE   MIXTURES. 
CASTLE   PUDDINGS. 

INGREDIENTS.  > 

2  Eggs;  their  weight  in  i  teaspoonful  Baking 

Butter  and  Sugar.  Powder. 

5  ozs.  Flour.  Grated  Lemon  Bind. 

.Little  Milk. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  flour 
mixed  with  baking  powder,  and  egg,  alternately.       Add 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEET  —  HOT  PUDDINGS.       199 

the  lemon  rind,   and,   if  necessary,  a  little  milk.       Mix 
lightly.       Place   in   buttered   dariole   moulds    and   steam 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  in  one  mould  for  IJ  hours. 
Let  shrink.       Turn  out,  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce. 
Lemon  sauce  (see  page  250). 

N.B. — (1)  Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding. — Make  as 
Castle  Pudding,  add  2  ozs.  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  little 
boiling  water,  and  add  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  essence. 
Serye  with  chocolate  sauce  poured  over  (see  page  250). 

(2)  Steamed  Orange  Pudding. — Make  as  Castle 
Pudding,  adding  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  juice  of 
i.     Serve  with  orange  sauce  (see  page  250). 

(3)  Sultana  Pudding. — Make  as  Castle  Pudding, 
adding  3  ozs.  chopped  sultanas.  Serve  with  lemon  sauc« 
(see  page  250). 

BROWN   PUDDING    (RICH). 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  OZS.  Butter.  4  ozs.  Sultanas. 

6  ozs.  Sugar.  5  ozs.  Flour. 

3  Eggs. 

Clean  the  sultanas,  chop  finely,  then  poimd  well  in  a 
mortar.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  eggs  well. 
Sift  flour  and  add  it  alternately  with  the  eggs.  Add 
sultanas  and  work  well  in.  Pour  into  a  greased  mould 
and  steam  for  4  hours.       Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Hard  Sajice  (see  page  251). 

CARAMEL   CUSTARDS. 

INGBEDIHaJTS. 

i  pint  Milk.  Vanilla  Essence. 

3  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar.  2  Eggs  and  1  Yolk. 

Make  2  ozs.  sugar  and  lemon  juice  into  caramel  'of 
golden  brown  colour.  Have  some  darioles  warmed.  Pour 
enough  caramel  into  each  to  cover  the  bottom  and  allow 
to  harden.      Grease  the  tins  with  clarified  butter.      Bring 


200       HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  HOT  PUDDINOS. 

milk  to  boiling  point  with  1  oz.  sugar ;  flavour  with  vanilla. 
Have  eggs  slightly  beaten  and  pour  boiling  milk  over 
them.  Strain  the  custard  into  prepared  moulds.  Cover 
with  greased  paper  and  immediately  place  in  a  pan  of 
water  just  under  boiling  point  in  which  has  been  placed 
a  few  layers  of  paper.  Steam  gently  until  set.  Allow  to 
shrink  well  before  turning  out.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Add 
1  gill  water  to  remaining  caramel.  Dissolve  and  strain 
round  custards. 

APPLE   FRITTERS. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 
2  Apples.  Frying  Batter  {see 

Sugar.  page  253). 

Have  the  apples  pared,  cored,  and  sliced  thinly  in  rings. 
Dip  in  batter  and  fry  quickly,  drain,  toss  in  sugar,  arrange 
in  a  circle.       Serve  instantly. 

Other  fruits  may  be  done  similarly,  retaining,  where 
possible,  the  original  shape  of  the  fruits. 

SPANISH   PUFFS. 

Some  Choux  Pastry  (see  page  304).  Place  in  bag  with 
a  plain  pipe.  Force  it  into  a  pan  of  hot  fat  in  pieces 
about  one  inch  long.  Fry  thoroughly.  Drain.  Servo 
on  fancy  paper  with  sifted  sugar  sprinkled  over  and  jam 
sauce  handed. 

These  may  be  dropped  into  fat  in  teaspoonfuls. 

PORTUGUESE   BARS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
4  ozs.  Eice.  Flavouring. 

1  oz.  Sugar.  Pinch  Salt. 

1  pint  Milk.  Cold  Water. 

1  Egg. 

Wash  the  rice  well  and  place  in  a  pan  with  some  water; 
stir  frequently.  Boil  quickly  10  minutes.  Pour  off  the 
water,    add    the    milk,    and    simmer    until    the    rice    has 


EOUSESOLD  COOKEBT  —  EOT  PUDDINGS.      201 

absorbed  all  the  milk.  When  quite  cooked,  sweeten  and 
add  one  egg.  Flavour  nicely,  and  turn  out  on  to  an 
ashet  to  get  quite  cold.  When  cold,  cut  in  bars,  egg  and 
crumb  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain.  Toss  in  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  If  liked,  the  bars  may  be  split  and  spread 
with  jam  after  frying. 
Rice  Balls  are  made  similarly. 

BAPA   AU   RHUM. 

'  INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  riour.  1  oz.  Castor  Sugar. 

i  lb.  Butter.  1  oz.  Shredded  Almonds  to 

3  Eggs.  line  the  tin. 

J  oz.  Yeast.  Little  lukewarm  Milk. 

i  teaspoonful  Salt.  Little  lukewarm  Water. 

2  ozs.  Almonds.  Bum  Syrup  to  soak  the  Baba. 

Place  the  yeast  in  a  ,  small  basin.  Work  with  half 
teaspoonful  sugar  until  liquid.  Add  2  or  3  table-spoonfuls 
tepid    water    and    milk.  Pour    into    the    centre    of 

'the  flour,  lightly  cover  with  flour.  Sprinkle  salt 
round  the  edges  of  the  basin.  When  the  yeast  cracks 
through,  knead  up  with  beaten  eggs  and  a  little  warm 
milk  if  necessary.  Add  almonds,  blanched  and  shredded, 
butter  melted  and  sugar.  Beat  with  the  hand  for  20 
minutes.  Turn  into  a  tin  which  is  thickly  buttered  and 
coated  well  with  shredded  almonds.  Allow  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place  until  double  the .  size.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Turn  out,  prick 
all  over.  Pour  rum  syrup  over.  Serve  hot,  or  cold 
decorated  with  whipped  cream. 

Rum  Syrup. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  Bum  to  flavour. 

IJ  pints  Water. 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  until  reduced  to  half.  Add 
rum  and  use. 


202        EOUSEBOLD  COOKEST  —  COLD  SWEETS. 


COLD   SWEETS. 


CORNFLOUR   MOULD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

li  ozs.  Cornflour.  Pinch  Salt. 

1  oz.  Castor  Sugar.  Flavouring  (Lemon  Bind  or 

1  pint  MUk.  Cinnamon  Stick). 

1  Egg.  1  oz.  Butter. 

Place  the  milk  and  flavourings  in  a  pan  and  allow  milk 
to  become  hot.  Blend  the  cornflour  with  a  little  cold 
milk.  Strain  the  hot  milk  over,  and  add  beaten  egg,  salt, 
and  sugar.  Return  to  pan  and  stir  till  boiling,  add  butter. 
Turn  into  a  wetted  mould,  and,  when  set,  turn  out.  Serve 
with  compote  of  fruits,  etc. 


BEN   RHYDDING   PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  Sponge  Cakes.  'Sugar  to  Sweeten. 

1  lb.  Juicy  Fruit.  J  pint  Whipped  Cream. 

Stew  the  fruit  with  sufiicient  sugar  to  sweeten.  Cut 
the  sponge  cake  in  thin  slices  and  line  a  plain  mould 
or  basin  with  it.  Put  in  some  stewed  fruit,  then  a  layer 
of  sponge  cake,  then  more  fruit  and  more  sponge  .cake 
until  the  basin  is  filled  up,  finishing  off  with  a  layer  of 
sponge  cake.  Place  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  top  and 
allow  to  stand  until  quite  eold;  turn  out.  Pour  over 
some  whipped  cream,  and  decorate  with  some  which  has 
been  coloured.  Rhubarb  and  red  currants  are  good  fruits 
to  use.  Bread  or  cookies  can  be  used  instead  of  sponge 
cake  to  make  plain  pudding.  Custard  may  be  used 
instead  of  cream,  or  a  mixture  of  both  is  excellent. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  COLD  SWEETS.        203 

TAPIOCA   CREAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

li  ozs.  Tapioca  (fine,  best).      Little  Sheriy. 

1  pint  Milk.  About  2  ozs.  Batafias. 

1  oz.  Sugar.  Some  Pistachio  Nuts. 
i  pint  Double  Cream. 

Place  a  layer  of  ratafias  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish. 
Soak  them  with  sherry.  Simmer  tapioca  in  milk  till 
thick.  Add  sugar  and  a  little  essence  of  almonds.  Stir 
occasionally  till  cold,  then  add  stiEEly-whisked  cream. 
Pour  over  the  ratafias,  and  garnish  with  ratafias  and 
chopped  pistachio  nuts. 

SWISS   CREAM. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

3  penny  Sponge  Cakes.  li  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

2  or  3  table-spoonfuls  Sherry    1  oz.  Almonds. 

or  Fruit  Syrup.  1  whole  Egg.and  1  Yolk. 

J  pint   Milk,  Raspberry  Jdm. 

1  oz.  Flour. 

Split  the  sponge  cakes  and  spread  with  jam  and  place 
in  a  glass  dish.  Soak  with  sherry.  Mix  the  flour  with 
a  little  cold  milk.  Heat  the  rest  of  the  mUk  with  the 
lemon  rind.  Stir  into  the  blended  fiour.  Add  beaten 
eggs  and  sugar,  and  stir  until  boiling.  Cook  thoroughly. 
Take  off,  and  stir  occasionally  till  well  off  boiling  point. 
Then  pour  custard  over  sponges.  Blanch  the  almonds, 
cut  into  strips,  and  stick  into  custard,  or  decorate  as 
desired. 

CHOCOLATE   CURDS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Milk.  IJ   teaspoonfuls  Rennet. 

1  oz.  grated  Chocolate.  1  teaspoonful  Sugar, 

i  gill  Cream. 

Heat  chocolate  and  milk.  Add  sugar,  cool,  add  rennet 
and  pour  vQikp  a  crystal.  When  set  spread  on  half 
whipped  cream. 


204        SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  COLD  SWEETS. 
DEVONSHIRE   JUNKET. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  pint  Milk.  2  large  teaspoonfuls  Bennet. 

1  large  table-spoonful  2  table-spoonfuls  Brandy. 
Castor  Sugar.                          Whipped  Cream. 

Bring  the  milk  to  blood  heat,  add  the  sugar  to  it. 
Put  rennet  and  brandy  in.  Pour  into  a  glass  dish  and 
let  it  stand  two  or  three  hours.  Spread  cream  whipped 
on  top  of  this  and  the  dish  is  ready. 

N.B. — Brandy  may  be  omitted. 

GOOSEBERRY   FOOL. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Gooseberries.  i  lb.  Sugar. 

1  gill  Water.  i  pint  Cream  or  Custard. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  a  few  minutes. 
Add  the  gooseberries  and  cook  until  tender;  sieve  through 
hair  sieve.  Mix  with  cream  or  custard  and  serve  cold 
in  glasses.       Colour  pale  green  if  necessary. 

N.B. — Any  fresh  fruit  may  be  treated  similarly. 

APPLE   SNOW. 

INGBBDIENTS. 

3  or  4  Sponge  Cakes.  Apple  Snow. 
Custard. 

Custard. 

i  pint  Milk.  2  Yolks  of  Eggs. 

Bind  of  1  small  Lemon.  1  oz.  Castor  Sugar. 

Place  the  milk  and  lemon  rind  in  a  pan,  and,  when 
warm,  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks.  Add  sugar,  strain, 
return  to  pan  and  stir  till  the  custard  thickens,  then  set 
aside  to  cool;  stir  occasionally. 

Snow. 

2  Apples,  roasted.  2  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 
2  Whites  of  Eggs.  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Slice  the  sponge  cakes  and  lay  them  in  a  glass  dish, 

soak  them   with   the    cold    custard.        Sieve*  apple   pulp 

through  a  hair  sieve  and  add  lemon  juice  to  it.      Whisk 


BOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  COLD  SWEETS.        205 

the  whites  very  stiffly  and  alternately  add  1  dessertspoonful 
sugar  and  1  dessertspoonful  apple  pulp,  whisking  well. 
Pile  roughly  on  sponge  cakes  and  decorate  with  chopped 
pistachios. 

TRIFLE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  or  5  peimy  Sponge  Cakes.  J  pint  Custard. 

Raspberry  or  Apricot  Jam.  J  pint  Cream. 

A  few  Batafias.  1  teaspoonful  Vanilla 

2  table-spoonfuls  Brandy.  Essence. 

6  table-spoonfuls  Sherry  or      1  table-spoonful  Sugar. 
1  gill  Fruit  Syrup. 

Split  the  sponges,  spread  with  jam,  place  on  a  flat  dish. 

Put  in  the  ratafias.      Pour  the  wine  and  brandy,  or  fruit 

syrup,  over  the  sponge  cakes,  then  pour  over  the  custard 

and  soak.      Flavour,  sweeten  and  whip  the  cream.      Force 

through  a  bag  and  pipe  on  top  of  custard  and  decorate 

as  liked. 

FLEUR   OF   APRICOTS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  ozs.  Rich  Short  Crust  J  pint  flavoured  Sweetened 
(see  page  302).  Cream. 

CompSte  of  Fruit. 

Grease'  a  fleur  ring  and  plate  on  a  greased  tin.  Roll 
out  the  pastry  to  fit  the  ring,  and  fill  with  baking  rice. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  half  an  hour.  When  ■  pastry 
is  baked,  take  out  the  rice  and  crisp  slightly  in  the  oven, 
brush  out  the  remaining  rice.  When  cold,  place  a  layer 
of  apricots  or  other  compote  of  fruit  in  the  fleur  and 
some  sjrrup.  Pile  or  pipe  sweetened  and  flavoured 
whipped  cream  on  top. 

VOL-AU-VENT  OF   FRUIT. 

INGREDIENTS. 
6  ozs.  PufiE  Pastry  (see  Comp5te  of  Fruit. 

page  303).  i 

Roll  out  pastry  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  out  two 
vol-au-vent  cases.      Take  a  smaller  cutter  and  cut  out  the 


206        HOUSEHOLD  COOEBBT  —  COLD  SWEETS. 

inside  of  one  of  them.  Brush  solid  round  with  beaten 
eggs  and  place  the  ring  above  the  solid  round.  Prick 
centre  part.  Put  a  crust  of  bread  in  the  centre.  Place 
in  a  quick  oven  and  bake  till  cooked  (20  or  25  minutes). 
When  done,  remove  the  crust  and  scoop  out  soft  part. 
Then  put  back  in  oven  for  a  minute  to  dry.  Fill  with 
fruit  mixture. 

Compote  of  Fruit  (see  below). 

COMPOTE   OF   FRUIT. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  together  half  a  pint  water 
and  6  dzs.  sugar  and  the  skins  of  the  fruits  used  (a  few 
only).  When  into  a  syrup,  remove  the  skins  and,  if 
necessary,  strain.  Place  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  and  simmer 
till  tender.  Any  fruits  can  be  used,  those  that  take 
longest  to  cook  being  put  on  first.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  that  the  fruits  are  not  broken,  though  quite  tender. 
Pile  on  a  dish.  Colour  and  flavour  the  syrup,  pour  over, 
aijd  decorate  to  taste. 

SEMOLINA   SNOW. 

INGREDIENTS. 
2  ozs.  Semolina.  3  to  4  ozs.  Sugar. 

1  pint  "Water.  Bind  and  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Bring  the  grated  rind  and  water  to  boiling  point. 
Sprinkle  in  the  semolina  and  cook  8  minutes.  Pour  on 
to  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  and  allow  to  become  almost 
eold.       Whisk  till  stiff.      Pour  into  a  crystal. 

LEMON   SPONGE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  oz.  Gelatine.  i  pint  cold  Water. 

Kind  and  Juiee  of  1  Lemon.     Whites  of  2  Eggs. 
4  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar.       ^ 

Place  the  gelatine,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  water,  and  lemon 
rind  in  a  pan;  stir  till  gelatine  is  melted;  bring  to  boiling 


EOUSEHOLP  COOKEBY  —  COLD  SWEETS.        207 

point.  Strain  and  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  in  a  basin.  Add  the  lemon  mixture, 
cool,  but  not  setting.  Beat  the  whole  till  it  is  a  stiff 
white  froth.  Have  a  mould  scalded  and  rinsed  out  with 
cold  water.  Pour  in  the  mixture  and  set  aside  till  eOld 
and  firm. 

PINEAPPLE    SPONGE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  tin  Pineapple  (medium  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Bize).  li  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

Whites  of  3  Eggs.  J  pint  Liquid  (Pineapple, 

J   oz.   Gelatine.  Syrup,  and  Water). 

Drain  the  syrup  from  the  pineapple  and  dissolve  gelatine 
in  the  given  quantity  of  liquid.  Cut  the  pineapple  into 
dice  (small).  Whisk  whites  until  very  stiff,  add  sugar, 
dissolved  gelatine,  and  lemon  juice;  whisk  until  it  becomes 
stiff,  then  whisk  in  fruit.  Pile  up  in  a  glass  dish  and 
sprinkle  some  fruit  over.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
used.  Sponge  may  be  moulded  if  liked.  Custard  sauce 
may  be  served  with  sponge. 

N.B. — Other  fruits  may  be  treated  similarly. 


PRUNE    MOULDS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Prunes.  J  oz.  Gelatine. 

1  pint  Water.  I  pint  Water. 

i  lb.  Sugar.  Carmine. 

1  Lemon.  2  Bananas. 
1  in.  Cinnamon  Stick. 

Well  wash  the  prunes  and  soak  all  night  in  1  pint  water. 
Stew  till  tender  with  the  sugar,  lemon  rind  and  cinnamon. 
Then  stone.  Put  gelatine  and  |  pint  water  into  the  pan. 
Stir  till  dissolved,  then  add  lemon  juice  an.d  syrup  prunes 
are  cooked  in.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  strain  into  a  basin, 
add  prunes,  bananas  and  carmine,  and,  when  setting,  mould. 


208        EOVSEEOLD  COOKEST  —  COLD  SWEETS. 

RHUBARB   MOULD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  Bhubarb.  i  lb.  Sugar. 

Juice  of  1  Lemon.  4  pint  Cuatard  or  J  prat 

1  oz.  Gelatine.  Cream. 

J  gill  Water.  Little  Carmine,  if  necessarj. 

Wash  the  rhubarb  and  cut  into  pieces,  and  stew  to 
a  pulp  with  1  table-spoonful  water.  Melt  the  gelatine 
in  the  water  and  when  dissolved,  mix  it  with  the  rhubarb. 
Add  sugar  and  lemon  and  stir  well.  Pour  into  mould. 
When  set,  turn  out,  and  pour  cream  or  custard  round. 


LEMON   SOUFFLE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Eggs.  i  OZ.  Gelatine. 

1  Lemon.  Chopped  PistacMo  Nuts  or 
i  gill  Water.  Cream  to  decorate. 

2  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

Separate  yolks  from  whites.  Whisk  yolks,  grated  lemon 
rind  and  sugar  till  thick  and  creamy.  Add  strained  lemon 
juice.  Whisk  up  whites — dissolve  gelatine  in  water  and 
add  to  mixture.  Fold  in  carefully '  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Pour  into  china  souffle  case  which  has  a  band 
of  oiled  paper  tied  round.  When  set  remove  paper  and 
decorate  as  desired. 


ORANGE   JELLY. 

mGEEDIENTS. 

1  OZ.  Gelatine.  2  Oranges. 

6  ozs.  Sugar.  1  gill  Iiemon  and  Orange 

i  pint  Water.  Juice. 

2  Lemons. 

Put  the  water,  gelatine  and  sugar  and  the  rind  of  one 
lemon  and  oranges  in  a  pan  and  stir  till  melted,  bring  lo 
boiling  point;  add  the  juice  from  oranges  and  lemon,  and 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  COLD  SWEETS.        209 

strain  through  muslin  cloth.      When  cool,  turn  into  wetted 
mould,  and  when  set,  turn  out. 

N.B, — This  jelly  may  be  cleared  {see  directions  for 
Lemon  Jelly). 

MOCHA   PUDDING. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

2  Eggs.  Coffee  Water  Icing  (see 
4  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  page  295). 

2i  ozs.  Sifted  Flour.  i  pint  Whipped  Sweetened 
Coffee  Butter  Icing  (see  Cream. 

page  296). 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  and  whisk  over  a  pan  of 
hot  water  until  the  sugar  is  melted;  then  whisk  again 
till  cold.  Add  the  flour,  sifted.  Turn  into  a  carefully- 
greased  timbale  mould ;  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  until 
set  and  a  pale  brown  colour  (45  minutes) ;  turn  out  and 
allow  to  cool.  Cover  with  coflEee  water  icing  and  let  it 
set.  Decorate  with  coffee-flavoured  butter  icing  and  fill 
up  the  centre  with  cream  passed  through  a  rose  forcer. 


MERINGUES. 

To  every  white  of  egg,  allow  2  ozs.  of  castor  sugar, 
sifted.  Whisk  the  whites  stiffly;  gradually  whisk  in  the 
sugar,  continue  beating  till  very  stiff.  Shape  by  means 
of  2  dessert-spoons  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  put  on  to 
paper  over  a  board.  To  shape  like  mushrooms,  force 
out  with  a  plain  pipe  on  to  paper.  Sift  castor  sugar 
over.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  3  hours.  When 
quite  cold,  fill  with  whipped  cream  and  decorate. 

Note. — -The  sugar  must  always  be  sifted.  The  meringues, 
when  firm  enough  to  move,  should  be  made  free  on  the 
tin  and  soft  centre  parts  removed  or  pressed  in  to  allow 
centres  to  dry-  thoroughly. 

o 


210        EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  COLD  SWEETS. 

JELLIES  (Sweet  and  Clear). 

General  Average  Proportions — 

14  ozs.  Gelatine — in  very  hot  weather,  rather  more  (2  ozs.) ; 
in  very  cold  weather,  rather  less  (IJ  ozs.). 

1  quart  Liquid. 

i  to  i  lb.  Sugar. 

2  Whites  and  Shells  of  Eggs. 

For  example — 

For  1  quart  Lemon  Jelly. — Liquid— 4  pint  Lemon  Juice, 

1  pint  Sherry,  ^nd  IJ  pints  Water. 
For  1  quart  Wine  Jelly.— Liquid— 4  pint  Sherry  Wine,  1 

gill  Brandy,  1  gill  Lemon  Juice,  and  1  pint  Water. 
For  1  quart  Ale  or  SUnhope  Jelly.— Liquid — 1  pint  Pale 

Ale,  14  gills  Lemon  Juice,  and  24  gills  Water. 
For  1  quart  Claret  Jelly.— Liquid— J  pint  Claret,  i  pint 

Lemon  Juice,  and  1  pint  Water. 
For  1  quart  Fruit  Jelly. — ^Liquid — 1  pint  Raspberry  Juice, 

I  pint  Water,  and  1  gUl  Lemon  Juice. 

Specimen  Recipes — 

LEMON   JELLY. 

,  INGREDIENTS. 

Liquid —  4  to  |  lb.  Loaf  Sugar. 

IJ  pints  Water.  2  Cloves. 

4  pint  Lemon  Juice.  1  stick  Cinnamon. 

i  pint  Sherry.  Bind  of  4  Lemons. 

14  ozs.  Q-elatine.  Whites  and  Shells  of  2  Eggs. 

Place  the  thinly-peeled  rind,  gelatine  and  sugar,  water 
and  lemon  juice,  whites  of  eggs  and  washed  and  crushed 
shells  in  a  pan.  Whisk  well  till  almost  at  boiling  point. 
Bring  to  boiling'  point  undisturbed;  simmer  gently  10 
minutes.  Have  ready  a  scalded  jelly  bag  or  towel,  pour 
jelly  through,  and  repeat  until  the  jelly  is  quite  clear.  Pour 
the  sherry  through  the  bag  into  the  jelly.  When  cool, 
pour  into  wetted  mould,  and  when  set,  turn  out,  dipping 
in  hot  water. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  COLD  SWEETS.        211 

Note. — If  no  sherry  is  used,  make  up  same  quantity  with 
water. 

N.B. — If  the  jelly  has  to  be  used  for  decorative  purposes, 
e.g.,  chopped,  then  use  2  ozs.  gelatine  to  1  quart. 

WINE   JELLY. 

INGKEDIENTS. 
li  to  2  OZS.  Gelatine  2  Whites  and  Shells  of  Egg. 

(according  to  purpose).  i  pint  Lemon  Juice. 

li  pints  Water.  J  lb.  Iioaf  Sugar. 

J  pint  Sherry.  Bind  of  3  Lemons. 

i  pint  Brandy. 

Method  is  similar  to  Lemon  Jelly,  wine  and  brandy 
being  poured  through  bag. 

STANHOPE   JELLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  pint  Pale  Ale.  li  ozs.  Gelatine. 

li  gills  Lemon  Juice.  Whites  of  2  Eggs  and  Shells. 

2i  gills  Water.  Rind  of  3  Lemons. 

i  lb.  Loaf  Sugar. 

Clear  all  ingredients  as  for  Lemon  Jelly,  clearing  ale. 
CLARET  JELLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I  pint  Water.  Bind  of  3  Lemons. 

1  pint  Claret  (i  pint  Lemon  Whites  and  Shells  of  2  Eggs. 

Juice).  i  lb.  Loaf  Sugar, 
li  ozs.  Gelatine. 

Clear  all  in  the  usual  way.  , 


CALF'S   FOOT  JELLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

First  Part. 
2  Calf's  Feet.  3i  pints  Water. 

Scald  and  blanch  tbe  feet,  split  up,  put  on  with  given 
quantity  of  water,  and  simmer  very  gently  about  5  hours 


212        HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  COLD  SWEETS. 

t 
The  liquid  will   have   been   reduced   to    about   14   pints. 
Strain,  and  allow  to  become  cold.       Remove  fat,  wiping 
it  off  with  cloth  wrung  out  of  boiling  water. 

Second  Part, 
li  pints  Stock.  1  glass  Brandy. 

J  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  Juice  and  Bind  of  3  Lemons, 

i  pint  Sherry.  Whites  and  Shells  of  3  Eggs. 

1  Clove.  2  in.  Cinnamon  Stick. 

Put  stock,  rind,  juice,  sugar,  whites,  and  shells  into  a 
pan  and  whisk  till  nearly  at  boiling  point.  Allow  to 
boil,  then  simmer  10  minutes.  Strain  till  clear.  When 
clear,  pass  sherry  and  brandy  through  the  bag.  When 
cold,  mould. 

Note. — If  liked,  wines  may  be  left  out,  in  which  case 
li  pints  stock  must  be  made  up  to  2  pints. 

Note. — Three  whites  are  used  here,  as  this  jeUy  is  more 
difficult  to  clear. 

FRUIT  JELLY    (RASPBERRY). 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Water.  |  lb.  Sugar. 

I  pint  Lemon  Juice.  2  Whites  and  Shells  of  Eggs. 

1  pint  Raspberry  Juice.  IJ  ozs.  Gelatine. 

To  get  the  juice,  squeeze  the  fresh  raspberries  in  a  clean 
linen  cloth.      Proceed  to  dear  as  for  Lemon  Jelly. 

MACEDOINE   OF    FRUIT. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  pint  Lemon  Jelly.  Pistachios. 

1  lb.  White  Grapes.  2  Bananas. 

}  lb.  Grapes.  2  Tangarine  Oranges. 

Set  half  an  inch  of  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  a  mould. 
Prepare  the  fruit  according  to  its  kind.  Put  in  a  layer 
of  fruit  and  set  with  the  jelly.  Place  in  another  layer 
of  fruit  and  set  these,  and  repeat  until  the  mould  is  filled. 
When  set,  unmould  and  decorate  with  fruits,  or  whipped 
cream,  if  liked. 


SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  COLD  SWEETS.        213 

« 

MARBLE   JELLY. 

One  quart  of  lemon  or  wine  jelly.  Divide  jelly  into 
three  parts,  having  one  part  larger  than  other  two.  Take 
one  of  the  smaller  parts,  whisk  till  stiff  and  frothy.  Do 
the  same  with  the  other  smaller  division,  but  before  it 
is  quite  stiff  add  enough  carmine  to  colour  a  nice  pink. 
Dip  a  jelly  mould  in  cold  water.  Place  some  of  the  cold 
plain  jelly  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould.  Then  place 
alternately  spoonfuls  of  the  white  and  pink  froth  jelly. 
Allow  to  set.  If  liked,  a  few  chopped  pistachios  may 
be  added.  Then  pour  in  some  more  liquid  jelly,  then 
spoonfuls  of  the  frothed.  Set.  Proceed  similarly  till 
the  mould  is  almost  full.  Fill  up  with  liquid  jelly.  Set. 
Dip  in  warm  water  and  turn  out. 

N.B. — Do  not  allow  frothed  jelly  to  touch  sides  of  mould. 

CREAMS. 
Three  Classes — 

(1)  Whole  Creams;   (2)  Custard  Creams; 
(3)  Fruit  Creams. 

Average  Proportions  for  all — 

J  gill  Water.  1  pint  Cream  Mixture, 

i  oz.  Gelatine.  2  to  4  ozs.  Sugar. 

(1)    WHOLE   CREAMS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Foundation. 

1  pint  Cream.  i  gill  Water. 

i  oz.  Gelatine.  2  to  4  ozs.  Sugar. 

Flavourings. 

Velvet   Cream. — 2    table-spoonfuls    Sherry    and    1   table- 
spoonful  Brandy.  ^^ 

Chocolate  Cream. — 2  ozs.  Dissolved  Chocolate  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  Vanilla. 


214        HOUSMEOLD  COOKEBT  —  COLD  SWEETS. 

Ginger  Cream. — i  teaspoonful  Ground  Ginger,  3  table- 
spoonfula  Syrup  from  Ginger,  and  few  pieces 
Preaerved  Ginger,  etc.,  etc. 

Prepare  the  mould  by  wetting  or  by  lining  with  jelly. 
Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water.  Whisk  the  cream 
till  half  stiif,  add  flavourings  and  sugar  to  gelatine.  When 
just  cool  enough,  add  to  cream,  stirring  well  in  until  cream 
shows  signs  of  setting.  Pour  at  once  into  prepared 
mould.  Tnrn  out  when  set,  by  dipping  mould  in  basin 
of  warm  water.  Decorate  suitably  with  glace  fruits, 
pistachios,  etc.,  and  chopped  lemon  or  wine  jelly. 

CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. 

INGKEDIENTS. 

J  pint  Velvet  Oream.  Some  chopped  Jelly. 

Some  Sponge  Fingers.  Some  chopped  Pistachios. 

Line  straight,  dry  tin  with  split  trimmed  biscuits,  fill 
with  cream,  nearly  setting.  When  set,  cut  biscuits  even, 
turn  out  and  decorate. 

(2)    CUSTARD   CREAMS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Foundation. 


i  pint  Custard. 


■J  pint  Milk. 

Vanilla  Pod.  J  pint  Cream. 

3  Yolks  of  Egg.         J  oz.  Gelatine. 

1  White  of  Egg.        i  gill  Water. 

2  ozs.  Sugar. 


Flavourings. 

Vanilla  Cream. — 1  teaspoonful  Essence  of  Vanilla. 

Cdffee  Cream. — 1  table-spoonful  Coffee  Essence. 

Almond  Cream. — 1  teaspoonful  Essence  of  Almond  and 
Green  Colouring. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  COLD  SWEETS.        215 

Caramel  Cream. — 3  ozs.  Loaf  Sugar,  made  into  Caramel 
and  dissolved  in  Milk  used  for  Custard,  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  Brandy. 

Infuse  the  milk  with  the  vanilla  pod.  Pour  on  to  the 
eggs,  strain,  return  to  pan,  and  stir  till  custard  thickens. 
Add  sugar,  and  cool.  Dissolve  gelatine,  add  flavourings 
(if  any)  to  it,  and  add  the  custard.  Have  cream  half 
whisked,  add  custard  (cool),  stir  tiU  it  shows  signs  of 
setting,  and  mould. 


(3)    FRUIT  CREAMS. 

INGKEDIENTS. 

Foundation. 

i  pint  Cream.  J  gill  Water. 

i  pint  Fruit  PurSe.  2  to  4  ozs.  Sugar. 

i  oz.  Gelatine. 

Flavourings. 

Strawberry. — i  pint  fresh  Strawberry  Purge  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  Brandy  (if  liked). 

Raspberry. — i  pint  Raspberry  Jam  Pur4e,  or  }  pint  fresh 
Easpberry  Pur6e,  1  teaspoonful  Bed  Currant  Jelly,  and 
Carmine. 

Apricot. — i  pint  Tinned  Apricot  Purfie,  J  teaspoonful 
Essence  Almond,  and  little  Carmine. 

'Add  the  sugar  to  the  fresh  fruit  and  rub  through  a 
hair  sieve.  Add  necessary  colouring  matter  to  make 
deeper  than  required,  as  cream  lessens  tints  when  added. 
Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water,  add  flavourings  then 
add  to  puree.  _ 

Have  cream  half  whisked,  stir  in  the  fruit  mixture, 
continuing  stirring  till  just  setting.  Mould  in  jelly-lined 
mould,  in  which  decorations  may  be  set,  if  liked. 


216        BQUSEHOLD  COOKERY  — COLD  SWMETS. 

ELABORATED  CREAMS. 

CHARTREUSE  OF  BANANAS. 

I^fGREDIE^rTS. 

i  pint  Banana  Puree.  Juice  of  i  Lemon. 

i  pint  Cream.  Decorations —                   ^ 

2  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  Few  Pistachio  Nuts. 

i  oz.  Gelatine.  3  Bananas. 

i  teacupful   Cold  Water.  Little  Clear  Jelly. 

Line  a  plain  souffle  tin  with  clear  jelly ;  cut  about  three 
bananas  into  thin  slices;  dip  each  in  jelly  and  entirely 
line  the  mould  with  them;  fill  in  the  spaces  between  with 
blanched  and  chopped  pistachio  nuts.  Set  all  -with  a 
little  jelly.  Mate  the  banana  puree ;  dissolve  the  gelatine 
in  water;  add  sugar  to  it.  Whisk  the  cream  until  half 
stiff.  Mix  the  banana  pulp  and  the  dissolved  gelatine, 
also  the  lemon  juice.  Add  to  the  cream,  stir  till  nearly 
setting.  .Turn  into  the  lined  mould,  and  when  quite  set, 
dip  in  warm  water  and  turn  out. 

CHARTREUSE   OF   ORANGES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Some  Orange  Jelly  (clear).  1  pint  Cream. 

About  6  Oranges.  i .  oz.  Gelatine. 

Pistachio  Nuts,  chopped  and  i  teaeupful  Cold  Water, 

blanched.  2  ozs.  Sugar  (Loaf). 

Put  two  oranges  aside  for  the  cream;  peel  the  other 
oranges  and  cut  into  very  thin  slices.  Line  a  plain  tin 
mould  with  jelly  and  arrange  the  slices  dipped  in  jelly 
round  it,  filling  in  the  spaces  with  chopped  pistachio 
nuts.  Rub  the  sugar  on  the  orange  rind  and  dissolve 
it  in  a  pan  with  the  juice  of  two  oranges.  Soak  and 
dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water.  •  Whisk  the  cream 
until  nearly  stiff — ^not  too  stiff,  else  the  add  of  the  fruit 
will  crack  the  cream.  Mix  gelatine  and  orange  syrup, 
add  to  cream,  mix  well  and  turn  into  the  prepared  moWd. 
When  set,  dip  in  warm  water  and  turn  out. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  ICES.  217 


ICES. 


RULES    FOR   FREEZING. 

Ice  and  salt  must  be  used  in  proportion — two  parts  ice 
to  one  part  Bay  salt.  Ice  should  be  chipped  finely.  Have 
freezer  perfectly  clean;  can,  spatula,  etc.,  scalded.  Have 
can  perfectly  adjusted  ^)n  pivot  and  crank  working  smoothly 
before  placing  in  freezing  mixture  or  mixture  to  be  frozen. 
Pack  well  round  can  with  ice  and  salt  before  placing  in 
mixture  to  be  frozen,  being  careful  that  no  salt  touches  lid 
or  rim  of  can.  Never  fill  the  can  more  than  two-thirds  full 
with  the  ice  cream  mixture.  Never  have  mixture  hot  when 
placed  in  can,  else  extravagance  of  ice  and  time. 

Observe  accurate  proportions,  especially  with  sugar;  average 
proportion,  quarter  pound  sugar  to  one  pint  liquid.  If  too 
sweet  it  will  not  freeze,  if  not  sufficiently  sweet  it  will  be 
hard  and  rocky. 

Avoid  as  much  as  possible  the  use  of  tin  or  copper  utensils. 
Once  the  mixture  is  placed  in  the  can  continue  turning  handle 
steadily  till  evenly  frozen. 

If  necessary,  scrape  sides  of  can  well  down  occasionally, 
taking  care  to  wipe  lid  when  removing  as  salt  would  spoil 
mixture.  When  sufficiently  frozen  remove  spatula.  Place 
on  paper  and  lid  and  leave  aside  well  covered  to  "  ripen  '-' 
or  mellow. 

N.B. — As  ice  melts  it  must  be  drained  away  and  can  kept 
continually  well  packed  with  ice  and  salt. 

If  solid  pieces  of  fruits  are  to  be  added  to  ices,  they  should 
be  added  when  the  mixture  is  half  frozen. 

FREEZING   WITHOUT   ICE. 

Take  2  parts  of  sulphate  of  soda,  1  part  of  muriate  of 
ammonia,  1  part  of  nitrate  of  potash.  Pound  separately 
each  ingredient  in  a  mortar  and  mix  with  water;  four  ounces 
of  the  above  mixed  with  about  one  gallon  of  water  will  make 
a  good  freezing  mixture. 


218  SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  ICES. 

PLAIN   ICES. 
Two  Classes.— Cream  and  Water. 

Cream  Ices  may  be  made  with — 

1.  Whole  Cream;  2.  Oream  plus  Fruit  Pur4e; 
3.  Oream  plus  Custard. 

The  Custard  (or  Ices  may  be  rich,  plsdn, 
or  cheap. 

RICH   CUSTARD   ICE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  pint  Cream  (single),  i 

i  lb.  Castor  Sugar.       I  Cugtard 

8  Yolks  of  Eggs.  VWistara. 

Vanilla  Essence.  I 

i  pint  Double  Cream,  slightly  sweetened. 

Make  custard,  allow  to  cool,  add  vanilla  or  other 
flavouring.  Partly  freeze,  then  add  the  whipped  cream, 
continue  freezing  till  right  consistency.  Remove  spatula, 
place  on  lid,  allow  to  ripen  at  least  half  hour. 

N.B. — This  may  be  moulded. 

PLAIN   CUSTARD    ICE. 

Make  as  above,  using  milk  instead  of  cream  for  the 
custard,  and  three  eggs  and  three  yolks. 

CHEAP   CUSTARD    ICE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  pint  Milk.  J  oz.  Cornflour. 

i  lb.  Sugar.  Any  Flavouring. 

Boil  the  cornflour  with  milk  and  sugar,  add  flavouring, 
finish  as  for  other  ices. 

2V.B. — This  may  be  made  richer  by  using  cream  as  above. 
Gelatine  in  same  proportion  as  cornflour  is  sometimes 
used  for  cheap  ice. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEEY  —  ICES.  219 

CREAM   ICES   MADE   WITH   JAM. 

As  Jams  vary  exceedingly  in  the  amount  of  sugar  they 
contain,  it  is  most  necessary  that  this  be  taken  into 
consideration  to  ensure  iuceess.  The  following  recipe  is 
for  Jams  of  average  sweetness:  — 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  pint  Plain  Custard.  1  teacupful  Jam. 

Pass  through  tammy  or  hair  sieve.  When  cool,  colour, 
if  necessary,  freeze  half,  then  add  half  pint  whipped 
sweetened  cream  (J  teaspoonful  sugar).  Continue 
freezing  and  finish  as  for  Rich  Custard  Ice. 

FRUIT  AND   CREAM   ICE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Cream  (double).  i  lb.  Sugar, 

i  pint  Fruit  Purfie  from  Squeeze  of  Lemon  Juice. 

Fruits. 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  fruit  and  pass  through  a  hair 
sieve,  add  to  the  whipped  cream  and  freeze. 

N.B. — Tinned  apricots,  etc.,  or  jams  may  be  used  instead 
of  fresh  fruits,  but  less  sugar  will  be  required.  All  fruit 
ices  should  have  a  good  squeeze  of  lemon  juice  added,  as 
this  ihelps  to  increase  the  flavour. 

CHOCOLATE   ICE   CREAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Chocolate.  J  pint  Cream. 

}  pint  Milk.  Sugar. 

2  Eggs  and  2  Yolks. 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  the  milk,  add  sugar  and  make 
the  custard.  When  cold,  add  to  the  whipped  cream. 
Freeze. 

N.B. — CofiEee  may  be  used  instead  of  chocolate. 


220  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEST  —  ICES. 

WATER   ICES. 

LEMON  WATER   ICE. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  ,        Juice  of  4  Lemons. 

1  pint  Water.  Whites  of  2  Eggs. 

TMn  rind  of  Lemon. 

Put  the  water  and  sugar  in  a  stewpan  on  the  fire  to 
boil  10  minutes,  reserving  about  six  lumps  of  sugar  from 
the  half  pound,  with  which  rub  the  zest  from  the  two 
lemons.  Strain  the  juiee,  which  should  measure  one  gill; 
sometimes  it  will  take  more  than  the  quantity  to  make 
the  measure.  When  syrup  is  cold,  add  the  lemon  juiee 
and  freeze.  When  half  frozen,  add  the  whipped  whites 
of  two  eggs.      Continue  freezing  till  suflSciently  stifiE. 

RASPBERRY  WATER  ICE  (from  Fresh  Fruits). 

INGEBDIENTS. 

i  pint  Raspberry  Juice  (2  lbs.  Easps,  pulped). 

1  pint  Syrup  (1  lb.  Loaf  Sugar,  1  pint  Water;  boil  10  minutes). 

Juice  of  2  Lemons. 

Place  all  in  the  prepared  freezer  and  freeze  as  usual. 
WATER   ICE   MADE    FROM   JAM. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Jam.  2  ozs.  Icing  Sugar. 

1  pint  Water.  Colouring  suited  to  the  kind 

Juiee  of  1  Lemon.  of  Jam  used. 

Mix  the  ingredients  above  given,  boil,  skim,  add  the 
colouiing  (use  very  little  of  this,  and,  if  possible,  only 
such  as  are  made  from  vegetables).  Strain  through  tammy 
cloth.      Freeze  when  cold. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  SAVOUEIES.  221 


SAVOURIES. 

ASPIC   JELLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2i  ozs.  Gelatine.  1  Onion. 

1   quart  Liqiiid —  Parsley. 

IJ  pints  Water  or  Stock.        20  Peppercorns. 

i  gill  Sherry.  Bay  Leaf.        i 

i  gill  Lemon  Juice.  Piece  of  Carrot. 

1  gill  Mixed  Vinegar.  2  Whites  and  Shells  of  Egg^. 
1  dessert-spoonful  Salt. 

Place  all  the  ingredients  except  sherry  in  a  pan.  Stir 
till  gelatine  is  dissolved,  whisk  the  eggs  well.  Let  it  boil 
undisturhed  5  minutes.  Allow  it  to  settle  5  minutes. 
Pass  through  a  jellybag  till  clear.  If  sherry  is  used, 
add  it  as  liquid  runs  through  the  bag  for  the  last  time. 


HOT   SAVOURIES. 
CROUTES   OF   HADDOCK. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Crofltes  of  Fried  Bread.  1  oz.  Butter. 

i  Findon  Haddock.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

1  Oyster  for  each  person.  Lemon,  Cress,  or  Endive. 

Remove  the  skin  and  bone  from  the  haddock.  Pound 
the  flesh  in  a  mortar  or  pass  through  a  sieve.  Add  the 
melted  butter  and  seasoning.  Beard  the  oysters,  spread 
some  haddock  mixture  on  top  of  each  croute,  then  lay 
an  oyster  on  also  and  cover  with  more  of  the  haddock 
mixture.  Work  into  a  pyramid  shape,  place  in  a  dripping- 
tin,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  heat  through  about 
8  minutes.  Serve  on  a  lace  paper  and  garnish  with 
endive  or  cress,  and  a  little  coralline  pepper  on  each  croute. 


222  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAVOUBIES. 

SARDINE  TOAST. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Some  Sardines.  Little  Parsley. 

Few  chopped  Capers.  Little  Seasoning. 

Few  drops  Vinegar.  Fingers  of  Fried  Bread. 

Scrape  the  sardines  lightly,  honing  them  if  possible. 
Lay  them  on  a  greased  tin.  Sprinkle  over  the  parsley, 
seasoning,  chopped  capers  and  vinegar.  Cover  with 
greased  paper  and  heat  through  in  the  oven.  Slip  on 
to  fingers  of  fried  bread  or  toast.  Garnish  with  coralline 
pepper  and  serve  very  hot.  If  liked,  brush  with  dissolved 
glaze  before  putting  on  the  capers  and  parsley. 

CHEESE   AIGRETTES. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

li  ozs.  Flour.  1  gill  Water. 

1  oz.  grated  Cheese.  2  small  Eggs. 

i  oz.  Butter.  Salt  and  Cayenne. 

Boil  the  butter  and  water  together.      Add  sifted  flour, 

and  beat  till  it  forms  a  ball.      Add  cheese  and  seasonings 

Beat  in  eggs,  a  little  at  a  time.      Have  fat  barely  smoking. 

^  Place  mixture  in  small  teaspoonfuls.      Fry  golden  brown. 

Drain,  dish  on  a  fancy  paper  and  dust  over  with  Parmesan 


ANCHOVY   AIGRETTES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8  to  10  Fillets  of  Anchovy.      Chopped  Parsley. 
Marinade  (Salad  Oil,  '  Coralline  Pepper. 

Vinegar).'  Frying  Batter  (see  page  254). 

Have  the  anchovies  lying  one  hour  in  marinade,  then 
dip  each  fillet  in  batter,  fry  in  hot  fat,  and  drain.  Garnish 
with  chopped  parsley  and  coralline  pepper.  Serve  hot 
as  a  savoury. 


E0USEB:0LD  COOKEBY  —  SATOUJLIES.  223 

HERRING   ROE   FRITTERS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Herring  Eoes.  Chopped  dry  Parsley. 

Some  thm  pieces  of  Bacon.  Coralline  Pepper. 

Some  pieces  firm  ripe  Frying  Batter. 
Tomato. 

Skin  and  cut  the  tomato  into  small  pieces.  Place  a 
piece  of  herring  roe  and  tomato  on  each  slice  of  bacon. 
Eoll  up,  dip  in  batter.  Fry  in  hot  fat.  Garnish  with 
parsley  and  coralline  pepper.      Serve  in  little  paper  cases. 

Frying  Batter  (see  page  254). 


MUSHROOM   CROUTES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  Mushrooms.  Seasoning. 

1  large  table-spoonful  Soft  Herring  Boe. 

Breadcrumbs..  Fried  Crofites. 

J  oz.  Butter. 

Melt  the  butter.  Skin,  wash  and  chop  the  mushrooms. 
Cook  ill'  butter,  add  breadcrumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne. 
Place  the  mixture  on  croutes.  Cook  roe  in  dripping-tin 
in  the  oven,  then  cut  it  up,  and  place  a  piece  on  each 
croiite. 

N.B. — Instead  of  chopping  the  mushrooms  they  may  be 
left  whole. 

CROUTES  DE   CABOUG. 

INGREDIENTS. 

5  Crofites  of  Bread,  fried  to      J  gill  thick  Fish  Sauce, 
a  golden  colour.  2  Pickled  Walnuts. 

1  small  Findon  Haddock.  Little  finely-chopped  Parsley. 

1  Tomato.  Water-cress  to   garnish. 

Cook  the  haddock.  Scrape  and  pound  it.  Mix  it  with 
the  fish  sauce.  Season  and  spread  it  on  the  croutes  of 
fried  bread.  Dip  tomato  into  boiling  water,  remove  skin 
and   cut  into  slices.       Place  a  slice  on  top  of  haddock 


224  EOVSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  SAVOUSIES. 

mixture,  and  on  top  of  that  place  a  small  slice  of  pickled 
walnut.  Heat  through  under  grill.  Put  a  dust  of 
parsley  on  top  of  each  piece  of  walnut.  Place  on  a  hot 
dish  and  ga,rnish  with  water-cress  or  fried  parsley.  Serve 
very  hot. 

HUITRES   A   LA   TZAR. 

INGREDIENTS. 

12  Oysters.  Salt. 

12  rounds  cooked  Tongue.  Pepper. 

Grated  Parmesan  Cheese.  Lemon  Juice. 

1  t^aspoonful  Anchovy  12  small  Cheese  Biscuits. 

Essence.  Cayenne. 

Cut  tongue  into  rounds  a  size  smaller  than  the  cheese 
biscuits.  Toss  in  melted  butter  to  partly  heat  and  prevent 
them  becoming  dry.  Mix  anchovy  paste  with  a  little 
cheese  and  spread  on  the  biscuits.  Place  tongue  on  this, 
then  one  or  two  bearded  oysters.  Heat  through  in  the 
oven.      Garnish  with  cress,  endive,  and  parsley. 


DIABLOTINES. 

'INGEEDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Cheese  Pastry  (see  li  ozs.  grated  Parmesan 

page  227).  or  Gruyere. 

J  gill  Milk.  1  Egg. 

J  oz.  Butter.  Salt  and  Cayenne, 

i  oz.  Cornflour.  Anchovy  Paste. 

Line  half-a-dozen  small  moulds  with  very  thin  cheese 
pastry.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  half  an  ounce 
of  cornflour,  then  the  milk,  and  let  it  boil.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  add  the  cheese,  and  mix  with  beaten  egg.  Season 
with  a  little  salt  and  highly  with  cayenne.  Half -fill  the 
moulds  with  this  preparation,  put  a  small  quantity  of 
bloater  or  anchovy  paste  in  the  centre  of  each,  cover  with 
the  remaining  mixture,  and  sprinkle  the  surface  with  grated 
cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  a  light  brown,  turn 
out,  and  serve  quickly  on  a  folded  napkin. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SAVOUBIS^S.  225 

HOT   CHEESE    SOUFFLE   OR   FONDUE. 

IKGREDIENTS. 
J  oz.  Butter.  '  2  Eggs. 

i  oz.  Flour.  i  piat   (rather  more)  Milk, 

li  ozs.  grated  Cheese  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

,       (Parmesan). 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  mix  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  the  milk,  stir  over  the  fire  till  it  boils.  Cook 
thoroughly.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  well.  Add 
the  beaten  yolks  to  the  panada.  When  slightly  cool, 
add  the  cheese,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Fold  in  the 
whites  and  pour  into  the  prepared  tin.  Bake  in  a  very 
hot  oven  for  20  minutes  or  till  firm  on  top.  Quickly 
tie  a  d'oyley  round,  or  slip  into  a  silver  souffle  case,  and 
serve  in  the  tin  in  which  cooked.  Serve  at  once,  as  it 
falls  very  quickly. 

N.B. — This  mixture  may  be  baked  in  small  souffle  cases; 

time,  about  10  minutes. 

^^ 

CROUTES   AU   JAMBON. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

10   Orofttes  of  Bread,  dipped  in  melted  Butter  and 

tossed  in  grated  Cheddar  Cheese. 
5  rounds  raw  Ham,  Size  of  Crofites. 

Place  the  round  of  ham  between  the  croutes.  Brown 
under  grill  on  both  sides.  Open  and  grUl  the  ham. 
Re-cover.  Garnish.  Place  on  a  lace  paper.  Garnish 
with  water-eress  or  fried  parsley.  Garnish  croutes  with 
chopped  dried  parsley. 

COLD   SAVOURIES. 

ANCHOVY   CANAPEES. 

Cut  one  slice  of  bread  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and 
cut  into  oblong  pieces;  fry  a  light  brown  and  cool.  Wash 
and  bone  two  anchovies.  Take  two  fillets  from  each  of 
them  for  each   piece  of  bread.       Put   rough  pieces   of 


226  EOUSJEEOLD  COOKEET  —  8AV0UBIES. 

anchovy  in  a  mortar  and  pound  with  half  an  ounce  butter. 
Spread  on  fried  bread.  Lay  the  fillets  across  each  piece, 
fill  the  space  between  with  chopped  parsley  or  chopped 
pistachios,  sieved  yolk,  and  chopped  white  of  egg.  Serve 
on  a  dish-paper  and  garnish  with  cress. 

CHEESE   D'ARTOIS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Paste. 

i  lb.  MouT.  \ 

3  0Z8.  Butter.  I     Make  into  Bough  PuS 

Squeeze  liemon  Juice,  j         Pastry. 

Oold  Water  to  mix.     ] 

Mixture. 

2  ozB.  Cheddar  Cheese.   > 

1  oz.  melted  Butter.       1     „.  , 

1  Egg,  r 

Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne.  J 

Roll   out  pastry  and  divide  into  2   squares.       Lay  1 

square  on  baking  tin.       Spread  mixture  on  pastry,  wet 

edges,  and   lay  on   2nd   square  of  pastry.       Mark   into 

fingers.      Brush  with  beaten  egg,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till 

brown  and  crisp. 

ANCHOVY   BASKETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  hard-boiled  Eggs.  Pepper  and  Cayenne. 
1  oz.  Butter.  Water-cress. 

Some  Anchovy  Essence. 

Boil  the  eggs  for  20  minutes,  then  place  in  oold  water. 
Shell  and  cut  them  in  two  lengthways,  and  remove  the 
yolks.  Pound  the  yolk  with  the  butter,  anchovy  essence, 
and  the  cayenne,  adding  a  little  seasoning  if  necessary. 
Then  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Force  through  a  bag 
and  pipe  into  the  white  oval.  Sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over.  Place  in  a  stalk  of  parsley  to  represent 
the  handle,  and  slip  each  basket  on  to  a  piece  of  cold 
fried  bread  or  croute  of  bread  and  butter.  Garnish 
with  water-cress. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAVOVEIES.  227 

ANCHOVY   Biscuits   A   LA   CREME. 

INGREDIENTS. 

li  ozs.  Flour.  Cayenne. 

i  oz.  Butter.  1  Yolk. 

1  teaspoonful  Anchovy  Few  drops  of  Carmine. 

Essence. 

Rub  the  butter  in  the  flour,  add  cayenne.  Add  anchovy 
essence  and  carmine  to  the  yolk  of  egg.  Mix  the  flour 
and  butter  vyith  the  egg.  Roll  out  and  cut  out  vfith  a 
fancy  cutter.  Paick  over,  and  bake  in  rather  a  moderate 
oven  5  or  6  minutes.  Cool  on  a  sieve.  Whip  up  i  gill 
double  cream,  and  add  1  dessert-spoonful  trimmings  of 
anchovy  fillets  fint  up.  Pile  with  a  teaspoon  on  top  of 
the  biscuits.  Wind  a  long  fillet  of  anchovy  round  the 
cream.  Sprinkle  with  sieved  yolk  and  parsley.  Serve 
on  a  dish-paper.      Garnish  with  water-cress  or  endive. 


SARDINE    PYRAMIDS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

5  diamonds  of  Toasted  or  Chopped  dried  Parsley. 

Fried  Bread.  Cayenne. 

6-8  small  Sardines.  Salt, 

i  oz.  Butter.  Coralline  Pepper. 

Remove  skin  and  bone  from  fish.  Pound  in  a  mortar 
with  butter  and  seasoning.  Mound  on  the  toast.  Sprinkle 
with  parsley  and  cayenne  pepper.  Serve  on  a  dish-paper 
with  sprigs  of  water-cress  round. 


CHEESE    STRAWS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Cheese  Pastry: — 

3  ozs.  Flour.  3  ozs.  grated  Cheese 
li  ozs.  Butter.  (mixture  of  Parmesam  or 

1  Yolk  of  Egg.  soft  Cheese). 

Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne.  Water,  if  necessary. 

Add  salt  and  other  seasoning  to  flour,  rub  the  butter 
in  finely,  and  add  the  grated  cheese  and  sufiicient  yolk 


228  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAVOUBIES. 


» 


of  egg  to  make  a  very  stiff  paste.  Roll  out  ou  a  lightly- 
floured  board,  cut  into  straws,  and  also  cut  some  into 
rings.  Place  on  a  baking  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  10  to  15  minutes.  Slip  the  straws  through  the  rings 
when  cold  and  garnish  with  coralline  pepper.  Serve  as 
a  savoury,  either  hot  or  eold. 

CHEESE   AND   CELERY   BISCUITS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Cheese  Pastry  (see  above). 

r  J.  gill  Double  Cream. 
_  ,        ,,.  .  J  i  oz.  grated  Parmesan  Cheese. 

Celery  Mixture-       |ii,ei/.chopped  Celery. 
'-  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 
Roll  out  pastry  and  cut  into  biscuits  and  prick.      Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.      Allow  to  cool. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients,  stir  or  whip  slightly,  and  pile 
on  biscuits.  Garnish  with  chopped  pistachio  nuts  and 
a  little  celery.  Garnish  the  dish  with  sprays  of  mustard 
and  cress. 

CHEESE   PYRAMIDS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  gill  Whipped  Cream.  3  pieces  Cheese  for  each 

Ss5t,  Pepper,  Cayenne.  Biscuit. 

Little  grated  Cheese.  Little  Water-cress. 

Cheese  Biscuits: 

Mix  the  grated  cheese,  seasoning,  and  whipped  cream 

together.      Place  a  spoonful  of  mixture  on  top  of  biscuits, 

and  then  three  little  pieces  of   cheese   on  top    of  that. 

Arrange  on  a  bed  of  cress. 

COLD   CHEESE   SOUFFLES. 

INQEEDIBNTS. 

1  gill  Double  Cream.  Little  made  Mustard. 

i  gill  Aspic  Jelly.  2  ozs.  grated  Parmesan. 

Seasonings.  Chopped  Aspic,  coloured. 

Few  Sprigs  Water-eress  or 
Endive. 

Whip  the  cream  lightly,  not  so  stiff  as  for  an  ordinary 

cream.       Add  seasonings,  and  stir  in  cheese  and  liquid 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SAVOUBIES.  229 

aspic.  When  almost  setting,  pour  into  little  souffle  cases. 
Garnish  round  outside  of  each  ease  with  chopped  aspic 
jelly  (red  and  clear).  Place  on  the  dish  with  lace  paper. 
Garnish  with  few  sprigs  of  water-cress. 

N.B. — White  stock  or  gelatine  may  be  used  instead  of 
aspic  for  mixture.  Paper  may  be  tied  round  cases  to 
mould  mixture  higher. 


ROGNONS    NORVEGIENNE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Sheep's  Kidney.  Little  chopped  Onion. 

1  Mushroom.  Butter. 

Chopped  Parsley.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Flour.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs. 

Some  thin  slices  of  raw  Fried  Parsley  (see 

Bacon.  page  161). 

Skin,  wash  and  chop  kidneys.  Saute  with  finely 
chopped  onion  in  the  butter,  adding  the  skinned  chopped 
mushrooms  a  little  before  kidney  and  onion  are  ready. 
Add  seasoning  and  parsley  and  spread  a  little  of  mixture 
on  small  strips  of  bacon.  Roll  up.  Dip  in  flour,  then 
egg  and  breadcnmibs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Arrange  in  small  paper  cases  and  serve  hot,  garnished 
with  fried  parsley. 


CROUTES   A    LA   CAMPAGNE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  cooked  Ham.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Carmine,  if  necessary. 

Yolk  of  hard-boiled  Egg. 

Chop  the  ham,  pound  with  the  other  ingredients,  sieve 
and  colour,  if  necessary.  Fry  5  or  7  croutes  of  bread. 
Spread  on  mixture,  piling  it  higher  in  the  centre.      Decorate 


230  EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAVOUBIES. 

with  whipped  and  seasoned  cream.  Serve  on  a  lace  paper. 
Garnish  with  chopped  or  shredded  truffle,  sieved,  hard- 
boiled  yolk  of  egg  and  a  little  well-dried  parsley. 

LITTLE   JELLIES   OF   TOMATO. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  table-spoonfuls  thick  Salt  and  Pepper. 
Tomato  from  tin  or  CaTmine. 

2  fresh  Tomatoes.  Tiny  piece  Onion. 

3  sheets  Gelatine.  Cayenne. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Aspic.  Some  Aspic,  Truffle,  and 

i  oz.  Butter.  Salad  for  garnishing. 

Pinch  Sugar. 

Line  five  small  dariole  moulds  with  aspic.  Decorate 
with  truffle,  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Cook  tomatoes,  onion, 
sugar,  butter,  and  seasoning  till  quite  soft,  then  pass 
through  a  hair  sieve.  Add  liquid  aspic  jelly,  and  gelatine 
dissolved,  and  a  few  drops  of  carmine.  Pour  into  pre- 
pared moulds  and  set  aside  to  firm.  Turn  out,  and  serve 
with  chopped  aspic  or  salad  round. 

OEUFS   ST.   MALO. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

6  hard-boiled  Eggs.  Aspie  Jelly  (see  page  281). 

1  small  Tureen  Caviare.  White  Chaudfroid   Sauce 

1  or  2  ozs.  Fresh  Butter.  (see  page  242). 
Seasoning.  Fine  Cress. 

2  or  3  Tomatoes. 

Cut  off  a  little  at  one  end  of  each  egg  and  carefully 
remove  yolks.  Pound  yolks,  caviare,  butter  and  seasoning 
in  a  mortar.  Then  pass  through  a  hair  sieve,  farce  the  eggs 
with  the  mixture  and  coat  each  with  the  chaudfroid  sauce, 
garnish  with  fine  cress,  then  finally  with  aspic.  Have 
some  aspic  coloured  green  and  moulded  in  a  fiat  dish, 
then  cut  out  as  many  rounds  as  there  are  eggs.  Skin 
tomatoes  and  put  in  a  slice  of  tomato  on  the  round  of 
aspic,  place  eggs  on  top,  garnish  with  bunches  of  cress 
and  serve. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  SAVOUBIES.  231 

SANDWICHES. 
SAVOURY. 
CHEESE   SANDWICHES. 

INGEBDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Cheese.  1  oz.  Butter. 

1  hard-boiled  Yolk  of  Egg.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

1  teaspoonful  made  Mustard.  Small  rounds  of  Brown 
J  teaspoonful  Vinegar.  Bread  and  Butter. 

Pound  the  clieese,  butter,  yolk  of  egg,  mustard,  vinegar, 
and  seasoning  together  in  a  mortar,  and  rub  through  a 
wire  sieve.  Spread  some  of  this  mixture  on  to  a  round 
of  buttered  brown  bread  and  place  another  on  top. 

CHEESE   CREAM   SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  table-spoonfuls  grated  A  little  erisp  Celery  or  a  few 
Cheese.  shelled  and  peeled  Walnuta. 

2  large  table-spoonfuls  Bread  and  Butter. 
Double  Cream.  Cayenne. 

Cut  some  thin  slices  of  bread,  butter  them  slightly, 
ehred  either  celery  or  walnuts  finely,  and  mix  this  with 
the  cheese  and  cream.  Spread  the  buttered  side  of  the 
bread  slices  with  this,  place  them  together  like  sandwiches, 
cut  them  into  pretty  shapes — square,  oblongs,  crescent  or 
stars.      Dish  up,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve. 

CHICKEN   AND   CHUTNEY    SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

l.oz.  Butter.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  table-spoonful  White  Sauee.     Slices  of  thin  Bread  and 

2  ozs.  Cooked  Chicken.  Butter. 
1   dessert-spoonful  Chutney.    , 

Pound  the  chicken,  butter,  white  sauce,  chutney,  salt 
and  pepper  together  in  a  mortar,  then  rub  through  a  fine 


232  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAVOUBIES. 

sieve.  Spread  some  of  this  mixture  on  to  a  slice  of 
bread  and  butter,  cover  with  another  slice,  and  cut  into 
fancy  shapes. 

CHICKEN   SANDWICHES. 

The  same  as  for  chicken  and  chutney  sandwiches,  only 
leaving  out  the  chutney. 

EGG  AND  ANCAOVY  SANDWICHES. 

IKGEEDrENTS. 

2  Eggs,  hard-boiled.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

i  teaspoonful  Anchovy  Slices  of  Bread  and  Butter  or 

Essence.  Buttered  Sandwich  Bolls. 

2  Anchovies,  boned. 

1  oz.  Butter. 

Pound  the  eggs,  anchovies,  butter,  anchovy  essence,  salt, 
pepper  and  cayenne  together  in  a  mortar,  thea  rub  through 
a  hair  sieve.  Spread  some  of  this  mixture  on  to  a  slice 
of  bread  and  butter,  lay  another  slice  on  top,  press  to- 
gether, and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

GHERKIN   AND   SARDINE   SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  oz.  Butter.  1  table-spoonful  Mayonnaise 

3  Sardiaes,  boned.  Sauce. 

J  teaspoonful  made  Mustard.    1  table-spoonful  chopped 
Seasoning.  Grherkins. 

2  hard-boiled  Tolks  of  Eggs.  .Slices  of  White  and  Brown 

Bread  and  Butter. 

Pound  the  butter,  yolks  of  eggs,  sardines,  mustard, 
Mayonnaise  sauce  and  seasoning  together  in  a  mortar, 
then  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Spread  this  mixture  on 
to  the  slices  of  white  bread  and  butter,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  gherkins,  and  place  the  slices  of  brown  bread 
and  butter  on  the  top.  Press  well  together,  and  cut  into 
fancy  shapes. 


SOUSEEOLD   COOKERY  —  SAVOUEIES.  233 

MADRAS    SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  hard-boiled  Yolks  of  Eggs.      1  c2.  Butter. 

Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne.  Thin  sUees  of  Bread  and 

1  dessert-spoonful  Anchovy  Butter,  or_  Sandwich  Bolls 

Paste.  and  Butter, 
i  teaspoonful  C3iutney. 

Pound  the  yolks  of  eggs,  chutney,  anchovy  paste,  -butter, 
salt  and  cayenne  together  in  a  mortar,  then  rub  them 
through  a  hair  sieve.  Spread  some  of  the  mixture  on 
to  a  slice  of  bread  and  butter,  put  another  slice  on  top, 
and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

LAX   SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  table-spoonful  Lax  2  hard-boiled  Yolks  of  Eggs, 

(smoked  salmon).  Seasoning. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Thin  slices  of  Bread  and 

3  fillets  of  Anchovies.  Butter  (brown  and  white). 

Put  the  lax,  anchovies,  yolks  of  eggs,  butter  and  season- 
ing into  a  mortar,  pound  until  they  are  smooth,  then  rub 
through  a  hair  sieve.  Spread  some  of  the  mixture  on 
to  a  slice  of  bread  and  butter,  put  another  slice  on  the 
top,  press  them  well  together,  and  cut  into  small  fancy 
shapes. 

N.B. — If  liked,  slices  of  lax  may  be  used  instead  of 
pounding. 

SALMON   AND    LOBSTER   SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 
12  thinly-cut  slices  of  Bread      1  teaspoonful  of  Anchovy 

and  Butter.  Paste. 

3  ozs.  of  Cold  Salmon.  1  table-spoonful  Double 

2  ozs.  Lobster,  free  from  Cream. 

bone.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Mayonnaise. 
2  French  Gherkins. 

Pound  the  salmon  and  lobster  in  a  mortar,  add  the 
Mayonnaise  and  anchovy  paste,  chop  finely  the  gherkins 


234  E0V3EH0LD  COOKBBT  —  SAVOUBIES. 

and  add  also,  mix  well,  and  work  in  cream.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  the  buttered  side  of  all 
the  slices  of  bread  rather  quickly  with  this  preparation, 
and  place  in  twos,  one  on  top  of  the  other  (spread  sides 
together,  of  course).  Take  a  cutlet  cutter,  plain  or  fluted, 
stamp  out  carefully  as  many  cutlet  shapes  as  possible, 
dress  them  in  a  circle  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  or 
lace  paper,  pointed  end  up;  fill  up  the  centre  with  a 
plain  salad.  Thinly-sliced  tomatoes  or  shredded  celery 
makes  a  nice  change,  dressed  in  the  centre. 

LETTUCE   SANDWICHES. 

Cut  the  required  number  of  very  thin  slices  of  bread, 
butter  them  lightly  on  one  side,  and  spread  with  a  thin 
layer  of  Mayonnaise  or  simple  vinegar  dressing.  Wash, 
trim,  drain  and  shred  some  ciisp  lettuce  leaves,  place  them 
on  the  slices  of  bread,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  sandwich  them  together.  Cut  into  conveniently-sized 
sandwiches,  serve,  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  crisp  parsley, 
or  tiny  lettuce  leaves. 

CUCUMBER   SANDWICHES. 

INOBEDIENTS. 

Thin  slices  of  Bread  and  Sliced  Oueumber. 

Butter.  Salt,  Pepper,  Vinegar. 

Soak  the   cucumber  for  a  short   time   in  the  vinegar 

and   seasoning.       Sandwich    and   cut   neatly.       Decorate 

with  shredded  rind. 

TOMATO   AND   EGG   SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Egg.  Salt,  Pepper, 

i  oz.  Butter.  Bread  and  Butter, 

i  gill  Tomato  Pulp  from 
fresh  Tomatoes. 

Mix  egg,  butter,  pulp,  and  seasoning.  Cook  as  for 
scrambled  egg.  Spread  on  a  plate  to  cool;  spread  on 
bread  and  butter.      Sandwich.       Cut  neatly,  serve. 


BOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAVOUBIES.  235 

SALTED   ALMOND    SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Salted  Almonds  {see        Slices  of  Bread  and  Butter. 
page  347). 

Chop  the  almonds  finely  and  sprinkle  on  to  a  slice  of 
bread  and  butter,  cover  with  another  slice,  and  cut  into 
fancy  shapes. 

N.B. — The  above  may  be  improved  with  a  little 
Mayonnaise  sprinkled  on  the  nuts. 


SWEET   SANDWICHES. 
FRUIT   SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Thin  slices  of  Brown  and  White  Bread  and  Butter. 

Sugar  to  taste. 

Slices  of  any  kind  of  Fruit. 

Cover  a  slice  of  bread  and  butter  with  fruit,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cover  with  another  slice  of  bread  and 
butter.      Cut  out  into  fancy  shapes. 

N.B. — A  little  whipped  cream  may  be  spread  on  the 
fruit. 

PRUNE    SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Prunes  stewed  to  a  lattle  Vanilla  Essence, 

thick  pulp,  with  Sugar  to  Or  2  table-spoonfula  of  Port 

sweeten.  "Wine  (if  liked). 

i  gill  Cream  (whipped).  Thin  slices  White  Bread  and 

i  lb.  Ground  Almonds.  Butter. 

Mix  all  well  together  and  spread  on  the  buttered  bread. 
Sandwich. 


236  EOUSEEOLD  COOKBBY  —  SATOUBIES. 

GINGER   CREAM   SANDWICHES. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

Preserved  Ginger.  Cream. 

Brown  Bread  and  Butter. 

Slice  the  ginger,  mix  with  a  little  syrup,  spread  on  the 
brown  bread  and  butter,  spread  on  a  layer  of  eream,  and 
sandwich.      Cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

N.B. — Sponge  fingers  may  be  used  instead  of  bread 
and  butter. 

N.B. — Lemon  Curd,  Banana  Butter,  Apple  and  Damson 
Cheese  may  all  be  used  for  sweet  sandwiches. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEUT  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  237 

Sauces,  Forcemeats  and 
Batters. 

FOUNDATION   WHITE    SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J-1  oz.  Margarine  or  Butter.     J  pint  Liquid  (milk  or  water, 
1  oz.  Flour.  o/  mixture,  or  fish  stock 

Bait  and  Pepper.  or  meat  stock). 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  cook  for  a  few  minutes 
without  discolouring,  add  liquid  gradually,  beating  well, 
add  seasoning;  stir  till  boiling  point,  cook  five  minutes, 
and  use. 

N.B. — The  following  Sauces  aie  made  as  above,  with  the 
various  distinctive  ingredients  being  added  to  the  cooked 
Foundation  Sauce. 

1. — ^Anchovy  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

}  pinb  Foundation  Sauce.  1  teaspoonful  Anchovy 

Essence. 

2. — Brain  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  pint  Foundation  Sauce. 

1  Sheep's  Brains  (cooked  and  chopped). 

1  teaspoonful  Lemon  Juice. 

3.— Caper  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

}  pint  Foundation  Sauce.  1  teaspoonful  Caper 

1  table-epoonful  Capers.  Vinegar. 

4. — Egg  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Foundation  Sauce.  1  hard-boiled  Egg  (chopped). 


238  SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAUCES,  Etc. 

5. — Fish  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  pint  Foundation  Sauce   (fish  stock  and  milk). 
1  teaspoonful  Vinegar. 

6.— Melted  Butter. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Foundation  Sauce  (made  with  water),  and 

1  extra  1  oz.  Butter. 

7; — Onion  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Foundation  Sauce. 

2  large  Onions  (boiled,  drained,  and  chopped). 

8. — Mustard  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

}  pint  Fomidation  Sauce.  1  teaspoonful  Mustard 

(made). 

9. — Parsley  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Foundation  Sauce. 

1  table-spoonful  chopped  Parsley  (washed  and  dried). 

10. — ^Sweet  Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Foundation  Sauce  (all  milk). 
2  teaspoonfuls  Sugar. 
Little  Flavouring  (if  liked). 

BROWN   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Butter,  Margarine,  or  1  small  Onion. 

Dripping.  1  small  Tomato  or  piece  of 
1  oz.  Flour.  Carrot, 

i  pint  Stock.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  fry  together  tUl  a  nice 
golden  brown  roux,  add  the  vegetables  and  seasoning,  add 


BOVSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  239 

the  stock.       Stir  till  boiling  point,  skim  well,  simmer  at 
least  half  hour;  strain. 

N.B. — If  the  stock  is  a  poor  colour,  then  the  onion  may 
be  sliced  and  fried  in  the  butter,  and  removed  before  the 
flour  is  added,  and  again  added  whenK  stock  is  in. 

BROWN   FISH   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  pint  Brown  Foundation  1  teaspoonful  Vinegar. 

Sauce.  * 

NONDESCRIPT  SAUCES. 
APPLE  SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  good-sized  Apples.  2  table-spoonfuls  moist 

1  table-spoonful  Water.  Sugar. 

1  02.  Butter.  CloTe  (if  liked). 

A  squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

Pare,  core,  and  quarter  four  good-sized  apples.  Put 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  the  cold  water  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  moist  sugar,  and  a  clove,  if  liked.  Simmer 
all  together  till  the  apples  are  in  pulp;  add  butter,  if 
liked.  If  the  apples  are  very  juicy,  it  will  be  necessary 
to  boil  very  quickly,  stirring  well  for  fiv^  or  six  minutes 
to  reduce  the  liquid.  Add  lemon  juice  and  beat  well 
till  smooth. 

BREAD   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  i  Onion. 

i  pint  Milk.  i  oz.  Butter. 

6  Peppercorns.  Seasoning. 

i  blade  Mace. 

Simmer  very  gently  the  onion,  peppercorns  and  mace 
in  the  milk  ,till  well  flavoured.  Strain,  add  the  bread- 
crumbs and  butter,  add  seasoning,  and  cook  about  five 
minutes  gently  till  the  crumbs  have  absorbed  milk. 


240  HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  SAUCES,  Etc. 

MINT   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  gill  Vinegar.  4  table-spoonfiils  chopped 

i  gill  boiling  Water.  Mint. 

1  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  boiling  water.  Add  it  to  the 
vinegar,  and  when  cold,  pour  all  over  the  chopped  mint. 
Stand  aside  for  an  hour  and  use  as  required. 

.  CUSTARD   SAUCE    (PLAIN). 

ingredients: 
1  large  teaspoonful  1  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

Comflour.  i  pint  Milk. 

1  Egg.  Mavouriug  (if  Uked). 

Blend  the  cornflour  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Heat  the 
remainder  of  the  milk.  Pour  over  the  blended  cornflour 
and  return  to  pan.  Stir  till  boiling,  and  cook  thoroughly. 
When  sufiSciently  cool,  pour  over  the  well-beaten  egg. 
Return  to  the  pan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  egg 
is  cooked,  but  do  not  boil.  Add  sugar  and  flavouring. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

JAM   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Sugar.  2  table-spoonfuls  Jam. 

i  pint  Water.  A  few  drops  IJemon  Juice. 

Boil  all  together  very  rapidly  for  ten  minutes.  The 
sauce  should  be  of  a  syrupy  consistency.  Strain  and 
serve. 

N.B. — Marmalade  sauce  may  be  made  in  the  same  way 
without  the  addition  of  lemon  juice. 

TREACLE   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Syrup  or        1  gill  Water. 
Treacle.  1  squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

Boil  together  for  ten  minutes. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  — SAUCES,  Etc.  241 

WHITE   SAUCES. 
~       BECHAMEL   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Butter.  i  pint  Milk. 

1  oz.  Mour.  1  small  Onion. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Cream.  \  blade  Mace. 

Salt,  Pepper.  Piece  Carrot  and  Turnip. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  cook  well.  Then  add 
vegetables  (sliced)  and  seasoning.  Cook  a  few  minutes 
without  discolouring,  add  the  liquid.  Bring  to  boiling 
point  and  then  simmer  till  required.  Strain  and  tammy, 
add  cream  and  reheat,  use  as  required.  If  liked,  milk 
may  be  simmered  with  vegetables,  strained,  and  sauce 
made  in  usual  way. 

VELOUTE    SAUCE. 

Same  as  above,  with  distinctive  exception  that  white 
stock  is  used  instead  of  milk,  and  1  teaspoonful  lemon 
juice  is  added. 

iV.B. — ^Fish  stock  is  used  when  the  sauce  is  for  fish. 

BUTTER   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  4  pint  Water. 

1  oz.  riour.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  lined  pan.  Add  the  flour,  cook 
well;  then  add  the  water  gradually,  and  seasoning.  Stir 
till  boiling.  Cook  3  minutes.  Serve  with  vegetables, 
such  as  asparagus,  seakale,  etc. 

SUPREME    SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

\  pint  YeloutS  Sauce.  6  Mushrooms. 

1  gill  Cream. 

Simmer  with  the  prepared  mushrooms  half  an  hour. 
Strain  and  tammy,  add  cream,  reheat. 

4 


242  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAUCES,  Etc. 

CHAUDFROID   SAUCE    (WHITE). 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  BIchamel.  2  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 

Veloutfi  Sauce.  i  pint  to  4  pint  Aspic  Jelly. 

Add  the  liquid  aspic  to  the  hot  sauce;  add  cream  and 
seasoning;  tammy.  St^r  till  setting  and  use  when  cold, 
but  unset. 

N.B. — Coloured  Chaudfroids  may  be  made  by  using 
different  foundation  sauce,  e.g.,  tomato,  brown,  etc. 

CUCUMBER   SAUCE    (HOT). 

INGREDIENTS. 
i  pint  BSchamel  or  Little  Green  Colouring 

1  Cucumber.  (if  necessary). 

2  table^spoonfuls  Cream. 

Stew  and  sieve  the  cucumber.  Add  this  puree  to  the 
sauce.  Add  cream,  reheat,  colour  (if  necessary).  Serve 
with  salmon,  veal,  sweetbreads,  etc. 

iV^.B.— rCelery  sauce  is  made  similarly. 

HORSE-RADISH    (HOT). 

INGEEDIBNTS. . 

4  pint  Velout6  Sauce.  1  table-spoonful  Vinegar. 

1  Horse-radish.  2  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 

Grate  the  horse-radish  and  add  to  the  veloute;  add 
cream  and  vinegar,  reheat,  serve  with  roast  beef,  etc 

SHRIMP   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  pint  VeloutS  Sauce  (made  Seasoning. 

with  Fish  Stock).  2  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 

4  gill  picked  Shrimps.  Little  Lobster  Spawn. 
Squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

Pound  and  sieve  the  spawn,  and  add  to  the  sauce  with 
the  other  ingredients.      Reheat. 


BOVSEBOLD  COOKERY  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  243 

OYSTER   SAUCE, 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  pint  Velout^  Sauce  (made      6  Sauce  Oysters, 
with  Fish  Stock  and  Lemon  Juice  (1  teaspoonful). 

Oyster  Liquor). 

Blanch  the  oysters  in  their  liquor.  Strain  them, 
reserving  th«  liquor  to  make  the  sauce.  Remove  the 
beard  and  cut  each  oyster  in  two;  add,  with  cream  and 
lemon  juice,  to  the  sauce.      Make  hot. 

-      LOBSTER   SAUCE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  pint  Veloutfi  Sauce  (using  1  or  2  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 

Fish  Stock).  Lemon  Juice  (1  dessert- 

1  Lobster.  spoonful). 
1  oz.  Lobster  Spawn. 

Pound  the  spawn  with  J  oz.  butter  and  rub  through 
a  hair  sieve.  Add  to  the  sauce.  Cook  till  it  turns  a  rich 
red.  Add  the  lobster  (cut  in  small  pieces),  lemon  juice, 
and  cream. 

N.B. — Shrimp  and  lobster  sauce  are  improved  if  the 
shells  are  crushed  and  simmered  in  the  fish  stock  before 
the  veloute  is  made  from  it. 

MAITRE   D'HOTEL   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  BSchamel  Sauce.  2  teaspoonfuls  Lemon  Juice. 

1  table-spooffiful  chopped  Seasoning. 

Parsley. 

DUTCH   SAUCE, 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  gill  Veloute  Sauce.  1  dessert-spoonful  Vinegar  or 

1  gill  Stock  or  Milk.  1  table-spoonful  Lemon 

1  Tolk  of  Egg.  Juice. 

Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Add  egg  and  stock  to  the  sauce,  season.  Make  hot, 
but  do  not  boil. 


244  HOUSEHOLD  COOKMUr  —  SAUCES,  Etc. 

SOUBISE   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Bechamel  Sauce  Pur^e  made  from  4  boiled 

(thick).  Onions. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 

Mix  and  heat. 

BROWN  SAUCES. 
ESPAGNOLE  SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Brown  Stock.  "1 

li  ozs.  Butter.  }  Boux. 

li  ozs.  Flour.  ) 

1  small  Carrot.  \ 

1  small  Onion.  I 

1  small  Shallot.  J-Mirepoix. 

li  ozs.  of  Ham  or  lean  Bacon  highly  smoked.  I 

Bouquet  of  Herbs.  ) 

3  Mushrooms  or  Mushroom  Trimmings. 

J  gUl  Tomato  Sauce  or  1  Tomato. 

Seasoning. 

J  glass  Sherry. 

Cut  up  bacon  or  ham  and  fry  slightly  in  the  butter. 
Add  the  vegetables,  cut  in  thin  slices  or  dice,  and  fry 
5  minutes.  Add  the  ilour  and  cook  very  slowly  together 
till  a  golden-brown  colour  is  obtained.  Add  the  stock, 
tomato  puree,  seasoning,  and  herbs,  and  simmer  gently 
for  one  hour,  skimming  frequently.  Lastly,  add  the  wine, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  skim,  and  tammy.  It  is  then 
ready  for  use. 

This  is  the  foundation  of  nearly  all  good  brown  sauces. 

N.B. — If  bottled  mushrooms  be  used,  they  should  be 
added  with  the  stock.  Being  damp  prevents  the  flour 
browning. 

Half  oz.  glaze  may  be  added  if  shorter  time  required 
for  cooking. 


EOUSEBOLD  COOEEBT  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  245 

REFORM   SAUCE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  gill  Espagnole  Sauce. 

Juice  of  1  Lemon  or  i  gill  of  Vinegar.     •  Poivrade  Sauce. 

12  Peppercorns. 

1  teaspoonful  Red  Currant  Jelly. 
1  glass  Port  Wine  or  Claret. 
Cayenne  Pepper. 

When  the  pepper  sauce  is  boiling,  stir  in  the  jelly,  wine, 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Allow  to  boil  10  minutes.  Strain 
and  tammy,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Method  for  Poivrade. 

Reduce  peppercorns  in  the  vinegar  to  half  quantity,  add 
Espagnole  Sauce,  tammy,  and  use. 


PIQUANTE   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Espagnole  Sauce.  1  dessert-spoonful  Vinegar. 

1  doz.  Peppercorns.  1  teaspoonful  chopped 

1  chopped  Gherkin.  Parsley. 
Few  chopped  Capers. 

Simmer  the  sauce  and  the  peppercorns  till  well  flavoured ; 
strain,  then  add  the  chopped  gherkin,  parsley,  and  capers. 
Reheat. 

GRATIN   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Espagnole  Sauce.  1  Shallot, 

i  table-spoonful  chopped  4  Mushrooms. 

Parsley.  J  oz.  Glaze. 

Make  the  sauce,  tammy.  Add  chopped  mushroonfs  and 
shallot,  parsley,  sherry  and  glaze,  also  seasonings.  Cook 
well.      If  necessary,  reduce. 


246  HOUSEEOLD  COOKEST  —  SAZWES,  Etc. 

SAUCE  CHASSEUR  (SAUCE  FOR  VENISON). 

INGEBDIENTS. 
J  pint  good  Brown  Sauce.        Few  drops  Lemon  Juice. 
2  ozs.  Bed  Currant  JeUy.  1  gill  Port  Wine. 

1  oz.  Glaze.  Little  Cayenne. 

Boil  all  these  ingredients  together  till  reduced  to  half 
a  pint,  then  strain  and  serve. 

BIGARADE   SAUCE    (FOR   WILD   DUCK). 

INGBEDIENTS. 

i  pint  good  Brown  Sauce.  Small  Shallot,  chopped  very 

Juice  of  1  Orange  and  fine. 

1  Lemon.  1  giU  of  Port  Wine  or  Claret. 

Pinch  of  Castor  Sugar. 

Mix  all  these  ingredients  and  boil  well  for  5  minutes; 
then  strain  and  serve  very  hot. 

TOMATO   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Tomatoes.  Small  Onion. 

1  oz.  Butter.  2  or  3  table-spoonfuls  Stock. 

1  oz.  Ham  (lean).  Small  teaspoonful  Cornflour. 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  ham,  and  onions,  add  the  seasoning 
and  butter.  Saute  for  10  minutes,  then  add  the  stock. 
Sumner  until  the  onion  is  tender,  pass  through  a  sieve. 
Thicken  with  cornflour,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and,  if 
necessary,  add  a  little  colouring  (carmine). 

CURRY   SAUCE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Butter.  2  table-spoonfuls  Cocoanut. 

1  oz.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Curry  Powder. 

i  pint  Stock.  J  teaspoonful  Chutney. 

1  small  Apple.  Salt. 

J  Onion.  ^  Lemon  Juice. 

Soak  the  cocoanut  in  the  stock.  Fry  the  chopped 
onion  and  apple  in  the  butter,  with  the  curry  powder 
added,  for  20  minutes.       Add  flour,  and  gradually  the 


MOUSEHOLD  COOKEEY  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  247 

strained  stock.  Stir  till  boiling.  Simmer  20  minutes 
longer.  Add  chutney,  lemon  juice,  and  (if  necessary) 
seasoning. 

BEARNAISE    SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  Shallots  or  1  Onioa.  3  ozs.  Butter. 

i  gill  Tarragon  Vinegar.  3  Yolks  of  Eggs. 

i  gill  Common  Vinegar.  Chopped  Parsley  and  Chervil. 

1  gill  White  Sauce. 

Chop  the  shallots  or  onions  and  put  into  a  pan  with 
vinegar.  Reduce  to  1  table-spoonful.  Strain,  add  to 
the  white  sauce,  and  mix  well.  Whisk  in  the  yolks 
separately,  having  the  pan  in  a  larger  one  of  boiling  water. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  butter  in  small  pieces, 
taking  care  each  piece  is  dissolved  before  adding  the  next. 
Reheat  before  serving,  and  add  some  finely-chopped  parsley 
and  chervil. 

HOLLANDAISE    SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  table-spoonfuls  White  "  2  Yolks  of  Eggs. 

Vinegar.  Seasoning. 

2  ozs.  Butter. 

Reduce  the  viaegar  to  1  table-spoonful,  make  up  to 
3  table-spoonfuls  with  water.  Pour  over  the  yolks.  Melt 
half'  the  butter  in  a  small  basin,  add  the  egg  mixture. 
Place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Stir  till  thick.  Add 
remainder  of  butter  away  from  fire.  The  sauce  is  then 
ready   for   use.       If   too  thick,   add   a   little  hot  water. 

HORSE-RADISH   SAUCE    (COLD). 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Horse-radish.  ^  Pinch  Salt. 

i  teaspoonful  Mustard.  About  1  gill  stiffly-whisked 

1  teaspoonful  Castor  Sugar.  Cream. 

2  raw  Yolks  of  Eggs.  IJ  table-spoonfuls  Vinegar. 

Let  the  horse-radish  lie  in  water  tiU  firm.  Scrub  well. 
Peel  and  grate  finely.       Take  the  mustard,  castor  sugar, 


248  HOUSEEOLD  GOOKESY  —  SAVCES,  Etc. 

raw  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the  salt,  and  mix  well.    Gradually 
add  the  cream  and  vinegar.      Lastly,  the  horse-radish. 

MAYONNAISE   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Tolks  of  Eggs.  Vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  (^stor  Sugar.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Salad  Oil  (1  gUl  to  J  pint).  Cream,  if  Uked. 
i  teaspoonful  Mustard. 

Mix  together  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  yolks.  Next 
whisk  in,  drop  by  drop,  the  Salad  oil  and  the  vinegar. 
If  cream  is  to  be  added,  add  it  last  and  very  gradually. 

N.B. — ^1  dessert-spoonful  boiling  water  added  at  end  is 
an  improvement. 

TARTARE  SAUCE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  or  2  table-spoonfuls  Mayonnaise  Sauce, 
chopped  Gherkins  or 

Capers.  _ 

BREAD   SAUCE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  i  Onion. 

i  pint  Milk.  1  oz.  Butter. 

6  Peppercorns.  Seasoning. 

i  blade  Mace.  2  table-spoonfuls  Cream. 

Simmer  the  onion,  peppercorns,  and  mace  in  the  milk 
till  well  flavoured.  Strain,  add  the  crumbs  and  butter, 
and  cook  gently  till  the  crumbs  have  absorbed  milk.  Add 
seasoning.      Cream  may  be  added  to  enrich. 

GOOSEBERRY   SAUCE. 

y  INGEEDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Gooseberries.  J  gill  Water, 

i  lb.  Sugar. 

Make  a  syrup  with  the  sugar  and  water,  add  gooseberries, 
and  cook  until  tender.      Rub  through  a  hair  sieve. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  249 

OILED   OR  DRAWN   BUTTER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  0Z8.  Pure  Fresh  Butter. 

Place  in  a  shallow  pan.      Melt  slowly.      Remove  scum 
as  it  rises.      Serve  in  a  hot  sauceboat. 


SWEET  SAUCES. 
CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Milk.  Little  Lemon  Bind  or 

1  dessert-spoonful  Sugar.  Vanilla  Essence. 

2  Yolks  of  Eggs. 

Heat  the  milk  with  the  lemon  rind,  and  ponr  over  the 
beaten  yolks.  Strain;  add  sugar.  Stir  till  it  thickens, 
and  pour  out  instantly.       Serve  hot  or  cold. 

N.B. — The  same  may  be  made  with  the  yolks,  and  the 
whites,  whipped  stiffly,  added  after  it  thickens. 

COFFEE  CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Yolks.  i  pint  Milk. 

J  pint  Coffee.  li  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

Heat  the  coffee  and  the  milk  in  a  double  pan;  pour 
over  beaten  yolks;  strain.  Cook;  add  sugar.  Serve  hot 
or  cold. 

ARROWROOT   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  teaspoonful  Arrowroot.  1  Yolk. 

1  table-spoonful  Sugar.  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

i  pint  Water. 

Mix  the  arrowroot  with  a  little  water.  Boil  the  rest 
of  the  water  and  pour  on  the  blended  arrowroot;  return 
to  the  pan,  and  add  sugar,  yolk,  and  lemon  juice. 


250  HOVSEEOLD  COOKEBT— SAUCES,  Etc. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 

INaEEDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  grated  Chocolate.  li   gills  Water. 

2  oza.  lolng  Sugar.  1  teaspoonful  Arrowroot. 

i  teaspoonful  Vanilla 
Essence. 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  chocolate  a  few  minutes.  Blend 
arrowroot  and  add.      Boil  up,  flavour  and  use  as  required. 

WINE   SAUCE. 

INGKEDIENTS. 

i  pint  Water.  2  table-spoonfuls  Marmalade. 

1  oz.  Sugar.  Juice  of  i  Liemon. 

i  gill  Sherry.  Pew  drops  Carniine. 

Put  on  the  marmalade,  sugar,  and  water,  and  simmer 
for  20  minutes.  Strain,  and  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
sherry.      Carmine  may  be  added  if  liked. 

LEMON   SAUCE. 

INGHEDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Loaf  Sugar.  J  pint  Water. 

Bind  and  Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Place  sugar  and  water  in  a  clean  pan.  Boil  gently 
tUl  it  is  reduced  to  half  the  original  quantity.  Peel  the 
lemon  thinly,  cut  rinds  into  shreds,  one  inch  long.  When 
syrup  has  reduced,  add  the  strained  lemon'  juice  and  shreds, 
boil  up,  and  serve  round  >  pudding. 

ORANGE    SAUCE. 

INGREDIEKTS. 

Juice  of  2  Oranges.  1  teaspoonful  Arrowroot." 

1  gill  Water.  2  ozs.  Loaf  Sugar. 

Mix  arrowroot  with  a  little  water.  Pour  boiling  water 
over.  Add  orange  juice  and  sugar  rasped  on  rinds. 
Return  to  pan  and  boil  a  few  minutes. 


EOUSESOLD  C00KEB7  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  251 

FIG   SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  pint  Water.  4  Figs. 

6  ozs.  Sugar. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  till  syrupy,  add  chopped  figs,  and 
simmer  about  1  minute,  and  serve  with  pudding. 


WHIPPED    EGG   SAUCE. 

ingredients; 
1  Yolk  of  Egg.  i  gill  Sherry  and  Water 

1  teaspoonful  Castor  Sugar.         mixed. 

Whisk  all  over  a  slight  heat  in  a  flat  pan  till  quite 
frothy  and  warm.      Pour  round  pudding. 

N.B. — By  addition  of  little  cream  this  is  transformed 
into  Sabayon  Sauce. 

HARD    SAUCE. 

ingredients. 
i  lb.  Fresh  Butter.  2  ozs.  sifted  Sugar. 

6  Sweet  Almonds.  1  table-sipoonful  Sherry  and 

2  Bitter  Almonds.  1  dessert-spoonful  Brandy. 

Blanc^,  mince,  and  pound  the  almonds  to  a  smooth  paste 
in  a  mortar.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  almonds. 
Add  sherry  and  brandy  before  serving.  Use  for  Plum 
and  Brown  Pudding.      Serve  separately. 


FORCEMEATS,  GLAZE,  &c 

GLAZE  1. 

Place  2  or  3  quarts  good  white  stock  in  a  large  clean 
pan  with  1  or  2  pints  of  cold  water  and  reduce.  Skim 
well  during  reduction.  As  liquid  decreases  in  bulk  change 
into  smaller  pans.      As  liquid  thickens,  care  must  be  taken 


252  HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  SAUCES,  Etc. 

to  prevent  burning.  When  reduced  to  the  consistency  of 
treacle,  run  into  skins  or  jars,  secure  ends  of  skins  by 
tying  tightly;  if  in  jars,  seal  with  mutton  fat. 

N.B. — Second,  third,  or  even  fourth  stock  may  be  treated 
as  above,  but  best  glaze  is  made  as  already  given. 


GLAZE   2    (quickly   made). 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  teaspoonful  Liebig.  J  oz.  Gelatine. 

1  gill  Stock  (brown). 

Melt  the  gelatine  in  the  stock;  use  when  cooling. 


VEAL   FORCEMEAT. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Breadcrumbs.  J  Lemon  Bind  (grated). 

2  ozB.   Suet   (chopped).  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

3  teaspoonfuls  Parsley  1  Egg. 
(chopped).  Little  Milk. 

1  teaspoonful  Sweet  Herbs. 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  moisten  with 
the  egg  and  milk. 


SAGE   AND   ONION   STUFFING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  large  Onions.  1  teaspoonful  Sage. 

i  lb.  Breadcrumbs.  Salt,  Pepper. 

li  ozs.  Fat.  Milk  or  Egg  to  bind. 

Parboil  and  chop  the  onions.  Mix  the  ingredients 
together,  season  well, 'and  bind  with  egg  or  milk.  Use 
to  stuff  meat,  or  bake  in  a  well-greased  dripping-tin  till 
cooked  and  firm.  Cut  in  squares.  DisE  on  dish-paper 
on  hot  ashet. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  SAUCES,  Etc.  253 

CHESTNUT   FORCEMEAT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Chestnuta.  1  dessert-spoonful  Thyme 
2  ozs.  Beef-suet  (chopped).  (chopped  finely). 

}  lb.  Breadcrumbs.  J  teaspoonful  each  of  Pepper 
i  lb.  Sausage  Meat.  and  Salt. 

Score  the"  chestnuts  with  a  sharp  knife  and  put  into 
a  frying-pan  with  J  oz.  butter.  Shake  over  the  fire  for 
2  or  3  minutes,  remove  skin  and  peel.  Pass  them  through 
a  mincing  machine,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix 
well  together.      Season. 


TURKEY   AND    FOWL    STUFFING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Sausage  Meat.  1  teaspoonful  chopped 

1  breakfast-cupful  Bread-  Parsley. 

crumbs.  Salt,  Pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  Mixed  Herbs.  1  Egg  (large). 
1  teaspoonful  powdered 

Thyme. 

Mix  all  well  together  with  the  hand.       Season  highly. 
Use  to  stuff  fowl,  turkey,  etc. 


BATTERS. 
COATING   BATTER    (1). 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Bread-  J  teaspoonful  Salt, 
crumbs.  1  Egg. 

3  table-spoonfuls  Flour.  About  i  gill  Milk. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  egg  well  and  add 
a  little  milk  to  it.  Add  to  the  flour  mixture,  beating  very 
thoroughly.  Let  it  stand  at  least  half  an  hour  in  a  cOol 
place  before  using.  Use  as  a  coating  for  fish,  fruit,  and 
vegetables. 


254  EOUSEBOLD  COOKEBY  —  SAUCES,  Etc. 

COATING   BATTER    (2).. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  fine  Flour.  Small  table-spoonful 

2  Whites  of  Eggs.  Salad  Oil. 

1  gill  Tepid  Water. 

Put  the  flour  in  a  basin,  add  salt  and  mix  well.  Make 
a  hole  in  the  centre,  add  the  oil,  and  then  the  tepid  water 
by  degrees.  Beat  well,  and  set  aside  for  1  hour.  Just 
before  using  fold  in  the  stifiEly-beaten  whites. 

This  batter  is  suitable  for  all  frying  purposes,  whether 
for  sweet  or  savoury  dishes. 

PANADA  OR  PANARD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  gill  Liquid.  • 

1  oz.  Flour. 

Melt  butter  in  a  pan.  Add  flour  and  liquid.  Stir 
briskly  till  smooth  and  in  a  ball  which  leaves  sides  of  pan. 

Use  for  binding  mixtures  of  cold  fish,  cold  meat,  etc., 
when  to  be  shaped  and  coated. 

N.B. — If  to  be  enclosed  in  pastry  cases,  e.g.,  rissoles  in 
paste,  then  14  gills  liquid  may  be  used. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING.  255 


BAKING. 


BREAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3i  lbs.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

3}  teaspoonfuls  Salt.  About  If  pints  lukewarm 

1  oz.  Yeast.  Water. 

Add  salt  to  the  flour,  and  warm  in  a  basin.  Place 
yeast  along  with  the  sugar  in  a  small  basin.  Cream 
the  yeast  untU  it  becomes  liquid,  then  add  most  of  the 
water  to  it.  Make  a  well  in  the  centre  of  the  flour; 
add  liquid,  and  mix  to  the  consistency  of  an  elastic  dough. 
Knead  with  the  hand  until  it  is  perfectly  smooth.  When 
well  kneaded,  put  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  1  hour, 
or  until  it  is  double  its  original  size.  Turn  out  on  to 
a  floured  board,  knead  it  again,  shape  into  three  loaves; 
place  each  in  a  warm  greased  tin.  Set  again  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  or  prove.  When  it  is  well  risen,  place  in 
a  hot  oven,  and  bake  each  loaf  about  1  hour. 

N.B. — The  addition  of  i  oz.  lard  or  dripping  rubbed 
into, each  1  lb.  flour,  makes  the  bread  keep  moist  a  long 
time. 


BROWN  BREAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Whole  Meal.  1  pint  lukewarm  Milk 

1  oz.  Teast.  and  Water. 

2  ozs.  Lard.  2  teaspoonfuls  Salt. 
J  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

Method — Make  as  above. 


256  EOUSESOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING. 

YORKSHIRE   TEA   CAKES. 


INGRF.PIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour. 

1  oz.  Lard  or  Butter. 

i  teaspoonful  Salt. 

About  1  gUl  Milk  or  Milk 

1  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

and  Water  (mixed). 

J  oz.  Yeast. 

Rub  the  lard  into  the  flour.  Warm  slightly.  Add  the 
salt  and  sugar.  Cream  the  yeast  with  a  little  extra  sugar, 
and  pour  the  warm^  milk  on  to  it.  Mix  all  to  a  light 
dough  and  knead  well;  put  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  till 
double  its  size.  Ejiead  again,  divide  into  three,  shape 
into  round  tea  cakes  and  place  on  warmed  greased  tins. 
Let  them  prove  for  10  minutes,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Average  time,  12  minutes;  when  ready,  brush  over  with 
butter. 

NJB. — ^If  liked,  IJ  ozs.  currants  may  be  added,  or  a 
further  addition  of  an  egg. 


AVERAGE    PROPORTIONS 
FOR   PLAIN   BAKING. 

(1)  1  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate  of  Soda. 
1  teaspoonful  Cream  of  Tartar. 

1  lb.  Flour  plus  Buttermilk. 

(2)  1  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate  of  Soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  Cream  of  Tartar. 
1  lb.  Flour  plus  Sweet  Milk. 

(3)  2  teaspoonfuls  Baking  Powder. 
1  lb.  Flour  plus  Sweet  Milk. 

Note. — The  above  proportions  may  be  varied  by  adding 
shortening  and  fruits  in  proportion  of  2  to  4  ozs.  of  each 
to  each  pound  of  flour. 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  BAKING.  257 

BAKING   POWDER, 
OR  UNFERMENTED    BREAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  E'lour.  2  teaspoonfuls  Baking 

1  teaspoonful  Salt.  Powder. 

2  oza.  Lard.  Milk  or  Water  to  mix. 

Rub  the  lard  into  the  flour;  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients; 
add  milk  to  make  a  light  dough;  shape  into  little  loaves. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  15  to  20  minutes,  depending  on  the 
size  of  the  bread. 


DATE    AND   WALNUT   LOAF. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Dates  (after  stoning).  14  ozs.  Flour. 

4  ozg.  Sugar.  2  ozs.  chopped  Walnuts. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  1  teaspoonful  Vanilla 
1  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate  Essence. 

of  Soda.  1  Egg. 

li  gills  boiling  Water.  A  pinch  of  Salt. 

Mix  chopped  dates,  sugar7  butter,  soda  and  salt.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  and  stir  till  soda,  etc.,  dissolves.  Add 
egg  and  stir  in  the  flour,  chopped  walnuts  and  essence. 
Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  greased  loaf  tin  ia  a  moderate 
oven  1-lJ  hours. 


BUTTERMILK   BREAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 

1  teaspoonful  Salt.  of  Soda. 

1  teaspoonful  Cream  of  J  pint  Buttermilk. 

Tartar. 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients;  add  buttermilk,  and  mix 
to  a  light  elastic  dough.  Divide  into  two.  Shape  in 
rounds.  Place  on  a  greased  tin.  Cut  across  twice. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 


258  SOVSEEOLD  COOKESY  —  BAKING. 

SODA   SCONES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  J  pint  Buttermilk  (or,  if 

1  teaspoonful  Salt.  using  Sweet  Milk,  add  2 

1  teaspoonful  Cream  of  teaspoonfuls  Cream   of 

Tartar.  Tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  Bi-earbonate 

of  Soda. 

Heat  the  girdle  slowly.  Add  salt  to  the  flour,  mix 
all  the  dry  ingredients;  add  buttermilk,  and  mix  to  a 
light  elastic  dough.  Roll  out  thinly  on  a  floured  board. 
Divide  into  four.  Bake  on  a  fairly  hot  girdle,  allowing 
3  to  4  minutes  per  side.      Cool  in  a  clean  towel. 

1  oz.  lard  may  be  used  if  liked,  rubbed  into  flour  after 
adding  salt.  Scones  may  be  made  smaller  as  desired 
by  dividing  before  rolling  out. 

DROPPED    SCONES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  riouT.  2  table-spooniuls  Sugar  or  1 

1  teaspoonful  Bi-earbonate  table-spoonful   Golden 

of  Soda.  Syrup. 

1  teaspoonful  Cream  of  1  Egg. 

Tartar.  J  teaspoonfvil  Salt, 

i  pint  Buttermilk. 
Mix  all  dry  ingredients,  beat  the  egg  well  and  add 
milk  to  it;  mix  to  fairly  soft  batter.  Grease  a  hot 
girdle  with  suet.  Drop  the  mixture  on  to  the  girdle  with 
an  iron  spoon.  When  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown 
on  the  other.      Wrap  in  a  clean  towel. 

SWEET   MILK   SCONES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  J  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 

J  oz.  Sugar.  of  Soda. 

1  .oz.  Butter  or  Margarine.  i  teaspoonful  Salt. 

1  teaspoonful  Cream  of  1  gUl  Milk. 
Tartar. 

Rub  the  butter  or  margarine  into  the  flour,  add  the  dry 
ingredients,  mix  well  into  a  light  dough  with  the  milk. 


BOUSEEOLD  COOEEBY —  BAKING.  259 

Turn  out  on  to  a  floured  board,  work  lightly,  roll  out  and 
cut  in  eight  pieces.  Lay  on  a  greased  baking-tin,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  10  minutes.  To  glaze  the  scones, 
brush  over  with  a  little  egg  or  mUk  before  putting  into 
the  oven. 

BROWN   SCONES. 

As  in  previous,  bake,  using  half  flour  and  half  wheaten 
flour  or  wheaten  meal. 


TREACLE    SCONES. 

IKGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Ground 

2  ozs.  Lard  or  Butter.  Cmnamon. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Treacle.  IJ  table-spoonfuls  Sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate        1  teaspoonful  Mixed  Spice, 
of  Soda.  Salt. 

Buttermilk  to  mis. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  and  treacle,  then  begin  to  mix 
with  buttermilk  until  a  stiff  dough.  Divide  in  four. 
Roll  out,  cut  in  four,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 

N.B. — Half  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  may  be  added 
if  sweet  milk  is  used. 


POTATO  SCONES. 

INGREDIENTS.      , 

i  lb.  Cold  Potatoes.  i  oz.  Butter. 

About  2  ozs.  Flour.  Salt. 

Mash  the  potatoes,  melt  the  butter.  Mix  all  together, 
adding  salt,  and  work  in  as  much  flour  as  the  paste  will 
take  up.  Roll  out  very  thinly,  cut  and  place  on  a  hot 
girdle,  prick  well,  cook  for  3  minutes  on  each  side.  Cool 
in  a  towel. 

N.B. — Oatmeal  may  be  used  instead  of  flour. 


HGO  HOUSEHOLD  COOKMSY  —  BAKING. 

ROCK  BUNS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  2  teaspoonfuls  Baking 

J  lb.  Dripping  or  Lard.  Powder. 

J  lb.  Moist  Sugar.  Small  pinch  Salt. 

1  lb.  Currants.  1  Egg. 

2  ozs.  Candied  Peel.  Little  Milk. 

Clean  the  currants,  cut  the  peel  in  thin  slices,  rub  the 
lard  or  dripping  lightly  into  the  flour,  add  the  dry 
ingredients;  mix  well.  Beat  the  egg  well;  mix  all  into 
a  stifE  paste,  adding  sufficient  milk.  Drop  the  mixture 
in  little  rough  heaps  on  a  greased  tin.  Bake  at  onee 
in  a  very  quick  oven  for  about  15  minutes. 

iV^.JB.— The  mixture  must  be  very  stiff,  and  the  oven  very 
hot,  or  the  cakes  will  not  keep  their  shape. 


LONDON   BUNS. 

mGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  Little  Grated  Lemon  Bind. 

2  ozs.  Butter  or  Lard.  2  pieces  of  Peel  for  top  of 

2  ozs.  Sugar.  each. 

1  oz.  Peel.  Little  Coarse  Sugar  (from 

1  teaspoonf  ul  Baking  Powder.        the  Peel). 

1  Egg.  Pinch  Salt. 

Chop  the  peel  finely,  reserving  strips  for  top.  Rub 
in  the  lard  thoroughly.  Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients,  beat 
the  egg  well,  add  milk  to  it.  Mix  all  to  a  light  dough. 
Shape  into  eight  balfe,  place  on  a  greased  tin,  brush  over 
with  beaten  egg;  sprinkle  with  coarse  sugar,  and  place 
on  peel.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  10  to  15  minutes,  depend- 
ing on  heat  and  the  size  of  buns. 

N.B. — If  proportions  of  flour,  fat. and  baking  powder 
are  always  kept  the  same,  then  sultanas,  currants,  almonds, 
etc.,  may  be  added  in  proportion. 


BOUSEEOLD  COOKERY —  BAKING.  261 

COCOANUT   BUNS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  lb.  Flour.  1  teaspoonfal  Bating 
2  ozs.  Lard  or  Butter.  Powder. 

1  Egg.  Pineh  Salt. 

2  ozs.  Sugar.  Milk  to  mix. 

2  ozs.  Cocoanut. 

Eub  the  lard  lightly  into  the  flour.  Mix  all  dry 
ingredients  together.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  mix  to 
a  stiff  paste.  Drop  the  mixture  on  a  greased  tin  ia 
small  pieces.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  brown.  Brush 
over  with  beaten  egg  and  sprinkle  cocoanut  over. 

N.B. — ^Very  light  buns  are  made  if  buttermilk  is  used 
to  mix.  ,  Use  J  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  and  J  tea- 
spoonful  bi-carbonate  of  soda  instead  of  baking  powder. 

RASPBERRY   BUNS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

5  OZS.  Flour.  Pinch  Salt. 

3  ozs.  Oround  Bice.  Milk  to  mix. 

2  ozs.  Lard  or  Butter.  2  Eggs. 

3  table-spoonfuls  Sugar.  Easpberry  Jam. 
1  teaspoonful  Baking 

Powder. 

Mix  flour  and  ground  rice  together,  rub  the  lard  lightly 
in,  add  all  dry  ingredients,  beat  the  eggs  well,  and  mix 
all  to  a  very  stiff  paste.  Form  into  balls,  make  a  hole 
in  the  centre,  place  in  a  little  jam,  close  up  the  opening, 
brush  over  with  beaten  egg.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  15 
minutes,  or  according  to  size. 

OATCAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Oatmeal.,  1  teaspoonful  Salt. 

2  table-spoonfuls  melted  Boiling  Water. 
Dripping   (Bacon,  if  Pinch  Baking  Soda, 
possible). 

Add  salt  to  the  oatmeal,  pour  in  liquid  fat,  add  enough 
water  (boiling)  to  make  a  rather  soft  consistepey.    Knead 


262  SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  BAKING. 

well,  work  ro:^nd  cake  on  board  sprinkled  with  oatmeal. 
Roll  out  as  thinly  as  possible -in  a  round  and  cut  into 
four  pieces.  Rub  with  dry  oatmeal  to  whiten.  Tire 
on  a  ii&rly  hot  girdle.  When  done  one  side,  toast  in 
front  of  the  fire  until  crisp  through  and  well  curled,  or 
bake  in  the  oven. 


OATMEAL   BISCUITS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

6  ozs.  Oatmeal.  Powder. 

3  ozs.  Lard.  Little  Milk. 

1   oz.  Sugar.  Salt. 

Rub  lard  into  flour;  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients;  add 
sufficient  milk  to  mix  v,ery  stiffly.  Sprinkle  the  board 
with  oatmeal;  roll  out  very  thinly;  cut  out  with  a  round 
cutter  and  prick  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  12  minutes.  Sugar  may  be  left  out,  if  liked 
unsw&tened.       One  egg  may  be  used  to  enrich,  if  liked. 


GINGERBREAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Mixed  Spice, 

i  lb.  Treacle.  1  teaspoonful  Ground 

4  ozs.  Butter,  or  Butter  Cinnamon. 

and  Lard.  2  Eggs. 

4  ozs.  Sugar.  1  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 

3  teaspoonfuls  Ground  of  Soda. 

Ginger.  Buttermilk  to  mix. 

Melt  the  butter,  sugar  and  treacle  together.  Mix  all 
the  dry  ingredients,  and  pour  in  the  treacle,  eggs,  and 
milk.  Mix  to  a  soft  coflsistency.  Pour  into  a  greased 
tin.  Bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  till  set,  time  depends  on 
depth  of  tin. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  ~  BAKING.  263 

PLAIN   WHITE   CAKE. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  2  teaspoonfuls  Baking 
6  to  8  ozs.  Butter.  Powder. 

6  to  8  ozs.  Sugar.  Milk. 

2  Eggs. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  mix  dry  ingredients,  add 
the  eggs  well  beaten;  beat  well.  Bake  2  hours  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Fruit  may  be  added  to  this  mixture, 
using  J  lb.  to  above  quantity — e.g.,  plain  currant  cake, 
plain  sultana  cake — or  2  ozs.  caraway  seeds  for  seedcake. 


SHORTBREAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  4  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar, 

i  lb.  Butter. 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together  on  a  board.  If  the 
butter  is  salt,  wash  it  and  squeeze  it  dry  in  the  comer 
of  a  clean  towel.  Put  the  butter  on  a  board  along  with 
the  dry  ingredients,  and  work  the  flour  and  sugar  into 
the  butter  with  the  hands,  kneading  it  well.  After  the 
flour  is  all  worked  in,  knead  the  whole  for  a  little,  then 
shape  out  into  a  cake.  Pinch  the  edges  of  the  cake. 
Prick  all  over  the  top  of  the  cake  with  a  fork  or  skewer 
(ornament  with  strips  of  candied  peel,  or  large  sweets, 
if  liked).  Lay  the  shortbread  on  a  greased  tin,  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  till 
a  pale  brown  colour.  Allow  to  stand  a  minute  or  two 
after  it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven  before  lifting.  Two 
ozs.  rice  floiir  may  be  substituted  for  the  same  quantity 
of  flour.  Shape  of  shortbread  is  improved  if  a  band 
of  paper  is  fastened  round  before  baking. 

N.B. — Pitcaithley  Bannock  is  made  exactly  as  above, 
with  the  adiiition  of  2  ozs.  blanched  chopped  almonds  and 
2  ozs.  chopped  citron  peel.  Shortbread  may  also  be 
rolled  out  and  cut  into  fancy  biscuits. 


264  EOUSEEOLD  COOKEMY  —  BAKING. 

SWISS   ROLL. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

J  teacupful  Sugar.  1  small  teaspoonful  Baking 

2  Eggs.  Powder. 

1  small  teaeupful  Flour.  i  teaspoonfvJ  Essence  of 

Jam  (heated).  Lemon. 
1  table-spoonful  Milk  or 
Water. 

Whisk  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  for  10  minutes  till 
thick,  add  the  milk  and  essence;  then  mix  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  lightly  in.  Have  ready  a  tin  lined  with 
greased  paper.  Pour  in  the  mixture,  bake  in  a  very 
"  quick  oven  for  5  minutes,  turn  the  sponge  out  on  to  a 
sugared  paper,  cut  off  the  edges,  spread  -with  hot  jam, 
roll  up,  dust  sugar  on  the  top. 

N.B. — The  cake   mixture  must  be  very   quickly  baked 
and  very  quickly  finished,  or  it  will  crack  when  rolled  up. 
It  may  be  served  as  a  pudding  with  custard  sauce. 


FRENCH  BREAD  (No.  2). 

INGBEDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Flour.  i  oz.  Butter. 

4  Egg.  J  oz.  Yeast. 

}  teaspoonful  Salt.  4  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

i  pint  Milk. 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter.  Heat  the  flour.  Mix 
the  yeast  with  the  sugar.  Pour  some  warm  milk  on. 
Mix  well.  Beat  up  the  egg  and  pour  on.  Sprinkle  salt 
round  the  sides  of  the  basin.  Pour  the  warm  yeast 
(liquid)  into  the  centre  of  the  flour,  using  more  warm 
milk,  if  required.  Knead  well  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
for  one  hour.  When  risen,  knead  again.  Shape  into  a 
loaf.  Place  on  a  greased  tin;  cut  across.  Allow  to 
prove  10  minutes  in  a  warm  place.  Brush  with  egg. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes. 


EOUSEBTOLD  COOKEBT  —  BAKING.  265 

FRENCH   BREAD    (No.   1). 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  riour.  1  teaspoonful  Salt. 

2  ozB.  Butter  or  Lard.  i  pint  Milk  (nearly). 

i  oz.  Yeast.  Little  lukewarm  Water. 

Warm  the  flour.  Rnb  in  the  butter;  cream  the  sugar 
and  yeast.  Pour  on  to  yeast  a  little  lukewarm  water  and 
some  milk,  sprinkle  salt  into  the  flour,  mix  to  a  light 
dough,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  about  one 
hour.  Make  into  fancy  shapes,  allow  to  prove  15  minutes, 
brush  with  milk  and  egg,  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes  in 
a  quick  oven. 


YEAST   RING. 

Ingredients. — i  lb.  Dough  as  for  French  Bread. 

Same  as  French  Bread  No.  2.  Form  into  a  roU,  wet 
the  ends  and  stick  together  to  form  a  ring.  Put  on  a 
greased  tin,  allow  to  rise  well  (10  minutes).  Glaze  with 
sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  20-30  minutes. 

Before  proving  the  ring  may  be  snipped  in  a  slanting 
position  with  scissors  at  intervals  of  about  li  ins.  or  it 
may  be  brushed  over  with  butter  and  sprinkled  with 
cinnamon,  chopped  nuts,  etc. 


DINNER   ROLLS. 

Ingredients. — i  lb.  Dough  as  for  French  Bread. 

Roll  out  half-inch  thick.  Stajnp  out  with  a  cutter. 
Place  on  a  greased  tin,  allow  to  rise  well,  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  8  to  10  minutes.  Rub  over  with  butter,  or  bake 
hard  and  rasp  the  crust. 


266  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING. 

CHELSEA   BUNS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.   Flour.  1  oz.  Sugar.     1  j^juing 

1  oz.  melted   Butter.  Currants.  / 

i  teacupful  Milk.  J  teaspoonful  Sugar, 
i  oz.   Teast. 

Heat  flour.      Cream  yeast  and  sugar.      Melt  butter  and 

pour  milk  over  it.       Mix  all  to  a  light  dough.       Elnead 

well.       Put  to  rise  till   double  its  size.       Re-knead  and 

roll  into  a  square.       Sprinkle  with  currants  and  sugar. 

Roll  up  and  cut  into  pieces,  1  in.  thick.       Put  to  prove 

for  10  minutes.      Brush  with  egg  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 

15  minutes. 

1.   DOUGHNUTS    (YEAST). 

INGREDIENTS, 
i  lb.  Flour.  1  oz.  Sugar. 

1  oz.  Butter.  2  Yolks  of  Eggs. 

§  oz.  Teast.  1  gill  MUk. 

Place  flour  in  a  warm  basin  and  add  salt  to  it.  Cream 
yeast  with  J  teaspoonful  sugar.  Rub  the  butter  into, the 
flour  add  rest  of  sugar.  Warm  mdlk  and  pour  it 
over  beaten  yolks.  Then  add  this  to  the  yeast  and  flour 
and  mix  to  a  light  dough  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Beat 
well.  '  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Knead 
up  and  form  into  14  small  balls.  Place  a  cherry  or 
little  jam  in  the  centre  of  each  and  quite  cover  up  the 
cherry.  Place  on  a  wanm  greased  tin  and  allow  to  prove 
about  10  minutes.  Fry  in  faintly-smoking  fat  6  to  8 
minutes.  Drain,  toss  in  castor  sugar  and  a  little  ground 
cinnamon. 

May  be  cut  into  rings  if  desired. 

N.B. — Hot  Cross  Buns  are  made  as  above,  adding 
J  teaspoonful  spice,  omitting  the  cherries,  forming  into 
7  buns,  proving  on  tin,  then  glazing  and  placing  on  cross 
of  uncooked  short  pastry  and  baking  in  a  quick  oven 
about  20  minutes. 


UOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING.  267 

2.   DOUGHNUTS    (WITHOUT   YEAST). 

Made  from  same  mixture  as  London  Buns  {page  260). 
Fry  in  faintly-smoking  fat,  and  toss  in  sugar. 

SALLY   LUNN, 

INGREDIENTS. 

f  lb.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Salt. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  Table-spoonful  Brewer's 

i  pint  lukewarm  Milk.  Barm,  or 

1  Egg.  i  oz.  Yeast. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  warm  mUk,  mix  it  with  the  barm 
or  yeast  and  salt,  pour  on  the  flour,  add  one  well-beaten 
egg.  Work  till  smooth.  Divide  the  dough  into  two 
portions  and  put  each  into  a  very  well-greased  tin.  Set 
to  rise  for  an  hour,  then  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven  for 
quarter  ofl  an  hour.  If  the  tins  are  not  very  well  greased, 
the  cakes  will  break  in  turning  out. 

GRISINI    BREAD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  3   or  4  table-spoonfuls 

1  oz.  Butter.  lukewarm  HUk. 

1  oz.  Yeast.  Lukewarm  Water  to  mix. 

1  teaspoonful  Salt. 

Make  as  usual,  mix  very  stiffly.  Let  it  rise  li  hours 
in  a  warm  place.  Make  into  long  sticks  and  into  rings. 
Bake  at  once  in  a  moderate  oven  till  crisp. 

N.B. — Salt  Sticks  are  made  similarly — brush  with  milk 
and  sprinkle  with  coarse  Bay  salt. 

YULE   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  i  OZ.  Yeast. 

J  lb.  Butter.  i  teaspoonful  Salt, 

i  lb.   Sultanas.  i  Nutmeg. 

2  ozs.  Candied  Peel.  i  pint  tepid  Milk.  ' 
i  lb.  Sugar.  1  Egg. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  warm  flour.       Add  sugar  and 

-salt.       Cream  the  yeast  with  a  little  sugar.       Heat  the 


268  BOUSEBOLD  COOKEnY  —  BAKING. 

milk  and  ponr  on  to  the  beaten  egg.  Add  it  to  the 
flour,  also  the  creamed  yeast.  Ejiead  well.  Let  it  rise 
in  a  warm  place  from  one  to  two  hours.  Add  fruit. 
Knead.  Place  in  a  greased  cake  tin.  Let  it  rise  well. 
Bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  at  first  and  a  more  moderate 
oven  afterwards.      Allow  50  to  60  minutes. 


MUFFINS. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  3  oza.  Butter. 

1  Egg..  2  oza.  Sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  Baking  Soda.      Buttermilk  to  mix. 
1  teaspoonful  Cream  of 
Tartar. 

Melt  butter.  Beat  egg.  Mix  flour,  sugar,  soda,  and 
tartar;  add  butter,  egg,  and  milk.  Make  into  soft  dough 
with  buttermilk,  roll  out  half  inch  thick,  cut  into  rounds. 
Cook  on  girdle.       Serve  hot  or  cold. 


CRUMPETS. 

INGHEDIENTS. 

8  ozs.  Mour.  J  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 

1  oz.  Margarine.  of  Soda. 

2  Eggs.  i  teaspoonful  Cream  of 
2  teaspoonfuls  Sugar.  Tartar. 

About  3  gills  Milk. 

Rub  fat  into  flour.      Add  all  dry  ingredients;  mix  well. 
Make  a  well  in  centre  and  drop  eggs  in  with  about  one 
gUl  of  the  milk;   give  a  good  quick  beat;  add  rest  of 
liquid.      Cook  in  spoonfuls  on  hot  greased  girdle,  on  either - 
side.      Cool  between  folds  of  clean  towel. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  BAKING.  269 

GALETTE. 

INGREDIENTS. 
6  ozs.  Flour.  1  Egg. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  Milk  to  mix. 

i  teaspoonful  Sugar.  J  teaspoonful  Salt. 

1  good  table-spoonful 
Paisley  Flour. 

Rub  butter  into  flour.  Add  Paisley  flour  and  sifted 
sugar.  Beat  up  egg.  Mix  to  a  light  dough  with  egg 
gud  sufScient  milk.  ,  Turn  on  to  a  floured  board.  Work 
a  little.  Form  into  a  round.  Place  on  a  greased  oven 
shelf.  Score  across  with  a  knife  into  diamond  shapes. 
Brush  over  with  beaten  egg.^  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  half 
an  hour. 

If  liked,  small  galettes  may  be  made  instead  of  one 
large  one. 

BREAKFAST   ROLLS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8  OZS.  Flour.  Sweet  Milk  to  mix. 

2  OZS.  Butter.  i  teaspoonful  Sugar, 

li  ozs.  Brown  &  Poison's        Yolk  of  Egg  (if  liked). 
Paisley  Flour.  Pinch  Salt. 

Mix  as  for  a  scone.  Roll  out,  cut  into  strips,  and 
form  into  rolls.  Brush  with  egg  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
10  minutes. 

COFFEE   BUNS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Flour.  i  teaspoonful  Baking 

li  ozs.  Currants.  Powder. 

i  table-spoonful  Milk.  ,      Pinch  Salt. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  }  teaspoonful  Spice. 

i  table-spoonful  Ground  Eiee.     1  table-spoonful  Coffee 

li  ozs.  Brown  Sugar.  Essence. 

i  Egg. 

Rub  butter  into  flour,  add  dry  ingredients,  mix  to  a 
stiff   paste   with   egg  and  milk.    Place  in   a  greased  tin 


270  HOUSEHOLD  COOEEET —  BAKING. 

in  heaps.      Brush  with  egg  (if  liked).      Bake  in  a  qui(* 
oven  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

Note  re  Texture. 

When  a  close  texture  is  desired,  add  eggs  and  flour 
alternately. 

When  an  open  spongy  texture  is  aimed  at,  add  all  eggs 
and  flavouring  gradually  to  beaten  butter  and  sugar,  and 
lightly  mix  in  flour  at  last. 


QUEEN   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Butter.  2  Eggs. 

i  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  i  Lemon  (grated  rind). 

4  ozs.  Flour.  I  teaspoonful  Baking 
4  ozs.  Currants.  Powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  eggs,  flour, 
baking  powder,  currants,  lemon  rind.  Fill  greased  Queen 
Cake  tins  two-thir'8s  full.  Bake  in  a  fairly  quick  oven 
15  minutes. 

RICE   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  J  teaspoonful  Baking 

2  ozs.  Flour.  Powder. 

2  ozs.  Sugar.  1  Lemon  Bind,  grated. 

2  ozs.  Ground  Rice.  MUk. 

1  Egg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  egg, 
then  the  sifted  flour,  ground  rice  and  baking  powder 
mixed;  add  the  flavouring.  Place  in  buttered  patty  tins 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING.  271 

ADELAIDE    CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Butter.  1  table-spoonful  Milk.. 

i  lb.  Sugar.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

i  lb.  Flour.  Powder. 

2  ozs.  Cherries.  3  Eggs.- 

2  ozs.  Cornflour.  FlaTOuring. 
1  oz.  Sweet  Almonds. 

Blanch  and  shred  the  almonds  finely.  Mince  the 
cherries.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Work 
in  the  cherries  and  almonds.  Add  the  eggs  and  beat 
well.  Sift  in  the  flour,  cornflour,  and  baking  powder 
and  mix  all  well  together.  Add  the  flavouring.  Grease 
14  patty  tins  and  half-fill  them  with  the  mixture.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2i  OZS.  Flour.  2  Eggs. 

2J  ozs.  Chocolate.  Vanilla. 

21  ozs.  Butter.  About  1  table-spoonful 

21  ozs.  Sugar.  Water. 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  the  water.  Separate  the  whites 
from  the  yolks.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  and  yolks,  dissolved  chocolate, 
vanilla,  and,  lastly,  the  whites.  Half-fill  eight  greased 
patty  tins  with  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20 
minutes. 

N.B. — Chocolate  must  be  cold  before  adding  to  mixture. 

CINNAMON   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Cinnamon, 

3  ozs.  Butter.  Nutmeg,  and  Cloves. 
6  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar.                   Pinoh  Salt. 

2  Eggs.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 
I  teacupful  MUk.  Powder. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  spices,  flour, 
baking  powder,   beaten  eggs,  and  milk.    Pour  into  three 


272  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING. 

well-greased  tins  (oval).      Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.      When  cold,  ice  top  with  water  icing. 

LANCASHIRE    NUTS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
J  lb.  Flour.  1  Egg. 

J  lb.  Cornflour.  }  teaspoonful  BaMng 

1  lb.  Butter.  -  Powder. 
J  lb.  Sifted  Sugar. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  egg  gradually, 
mix  other  dry  iagredients  and  mix  in  carefully.  Place 
in  little  heaps  on  a  greased  tin  with  a  teaspoon.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  15  minutes. 

LOUISE   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

IJ  ozs.  Flour.  2  ozs.  Sugar. 

IJ  ozs.  Cornflour.  J  teaspoonful  Baking 

Essence  of  Lemon.  Powder. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  1  Egg. 

Cream'  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  flours,  baking  powder 
and  beaten  egg  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
15  minutes  (seven  patty  pans). 

BROWN   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS, 
i  lb.  Flour.  1  small  teaspoonful 

6  ozs.  Sultanas.  Bi-carbonate  of  Soda. 

6  ozs.  Sugar.  J  lb.  Treacle. 

Grating  of  Nutmeg.  1  lb.  Butter, 

li  teaspoonfuls  Cinnamon.        2  Eggs. 

Mix  all  dry  iagredients.  Melt  butter  and  treacle,  and 
add  with  the  beaten  egg.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  IJ 
to  2i  hours. 

If  liked,  small  cakes  may  be  made  of  the  mixture. 
Grease  patty  tins,  and  place  a  blanched  and  split  almond 
in  the  bottom.  Then  half-flll  the  tins.  Bake  15  to  20 
minutes. 


BOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  ~  BAKING.  273 

ECCLES   CAKES. 

INGREDIilNTS. 

i  lb.  Flaky  Pastry.  1  oz.  Citron  Peel. 

1  oz.  Melted  Butter.  4  oz.  Currants. 

2  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar.  Grating  of  Nutmeg. 

Mix  all  together.  Roll  out  the  pastry  rather  thickly. 
Cut  into  rounds.  Place  some  of  the  mixture  in  the  middle 
of  each.  Gather  the  edges  together.  Pinch  firmly  and 
turn  right  over.  Roll  out  into  neat  rounds  or  ovals  until 
the  currants  just  show  through.  Score  across  in  diamond 
shapes.  Brush  with  white  of  egg.  Sprinkle  with  sifted 
sugar.      Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes. 


BANBURY   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  OurraJits.  2  ozs.  Sugar. 

i  lb.  Minced  Lemon  and  i  teaspoonful  Ground 

Citron  Peel.  Cinnamon. 

1  lb.  Butter.  Some  Puff  Pastry. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  till  creamy;  add  fruits  and  mix 
very  well.  Roll  out  pastry  its  last  time  and  shape  into 
diamond  shapes.  Place  mixture  on  one,  wet  edges.  Place 
second  on  top.  Bake,  then  frost  with  white  of  egg  and 
castor  sugar.       Set  in  a  cool  oven.      Use. 


LEMON  CURD  CHEESE  CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Short  or  Flaky  Pastry  to  line  patty  tins. 
Some  Lemon  Curd  (see  page  323). 

Line  patty  tins  with  pastry.  Prick  the  bottom  of  each 
and  place  in  a  piece  of  crust.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
till  ready.      Remove  the  crust  and  place  in  the  lemon  curd. 


274  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBr  —  BAKING. 

ORANGE   CREAM   TARTLETS. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

3  ozB.  Iioaf  Sugar.  2  Tolks  of  Eggs. 

1  Orange.  li  Whites  of  Eggs. 

1  table-spoonful  Water.  Short  or  Flaky  Pastry. 
Juice  of  1  Lemon. 

Line  some  patty  tins  with  flaky  or  short  pastry.  Prick 
the  bottoms  of  each  and  bake  till  crisp  in  a  hot  oven. 
Put  aside  to  cool. 

Rasp  the  sugar  on  the  orange  rind.  Place  in  a  pan 
with  the  orange  and  lemon  juice.  Allow  to  dissolve 
slowly.  Add  yolks,  stir  until  thick  (but  do  not  boil). 
Whisk  whites  very  stiffly.  Fold  into  the  mixture!  Place 
in  the  pastry  cases  and  decorate  with  pistachio  nuts. 

WELSH   CHEESE   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Egg — ^its  weight  in  Butter,    Pinch  Baking  Powder. 
Sugar,  and  Flour.  Short  or  Flaky  Pastry. 

Line  some  patty  tins  with  pastry.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar.  Mix  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  flour 
and  egg  alternately.  Put  a  little  jam  in  the  pastry- 
lined  tins,  place  in  a  teaspoonful  of  the  above  mixture. 
Bake  in  a  fairly  quick  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

GROUND   RICE   CHEESE   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  OZB.  Butter.  Juice  and  Bind  of  1  Lemon. 
2  ozs.  Ground  Rice  (medium).    Short  or  Flaky  Pastry. 

2  ozs.  Loaf  Sugar. 

Rasp  the  sugar  on  the  lemon  and  then  pound  the  sugar. 
Beat  the  butter  with  the  sugar  to  a  cream,  gradually  add 
the  well-beaten  egg,  ground  rice  and  lemon  juice.  Line 
some  patty  tins  with  short  or  flaky  pastry,  place  a  little 
jam  in  each,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING.         '     275 

MACAROON  CHEESE  CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Puff  or  Short  Pastry.  2  Whites  of  Eggs. 

2  ozs.  Ground  Almonds.  Orange  Plower  Water. 

2  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar. 

Line  patty  tins  with  pastry.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs 
very  stiffly.  Mix  all  ingredients  well  together.  Pour 
mixture  into  lined  patty  tins.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven. 


PASTRY   SANDWICHES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Some  Puff  Pastry.  Whipped  Oream. 

Apricot  or  Raspberry  Jam.         white  of  Egg. 
Castor  Sugar. 

Eoll  ouf  J  lb.  pastry,  puff  or  flaky,  as  thin  as  possible. 
Divide  in  two  equal  strips.  Brush  with  white  of  egg. 
Sprinkle  castor  sugar  over.  Mark  finger  lengths  with 
a  knife  and  bake.  When  cold,  cut  the  sandwiches  by 
the  marks.  Spread  one  with  jam  and  the  other  with 
whipped  cream.  Place  one  on  top  of  the  other.  Sprinkle 
sugar  over  and  serve  on  a  lace  paper.  Pastry  may  b» 
.cut  into  fingers  before  baking. 


CREAM    BUNS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Choux  Pastry  {see  page  304). 

rj  pint  Double  Oream. 
Whipped  Cream — i  2  teaspoonfuls  Sugar. 
I  Few  drops  Vanilla. 

Make  the  pastry,  drop  in  teaspoonfuls  on  a  waxed  tin; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  well-risen  and  dry.  Split 
them  and  remove  any  soft  inside  part.  Fill  with  whipped 
cream,   sweetened  and  flavoured.    Dust  with  icing  sugar. 


276  HOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  BAKING. 

CHOCOLATE    ECLAIRS. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

Choux  Psstry  (see  page  304).     Chocolate  Icing  {see 
Whipped  Cream.  page  296). 

Sugar. 

Make  pastry;  add  a  little  sugar;  force  in  finger  lengths 

on  a  waxed  tin.      When  cooked,  split  and  remove  the  soft 

inside;  fill  with  whipped  cream  or  pastry  custard.       Ice 

with  chocolate  icing. 

GENOESE   PASTRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  Eggs.  3  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar  (good 

3  ozs.  Butter  (short  measure).        measure). 
3  ozs.  Sifted  Flour.  ,         Butter  Icing  {see  page  296). 

Water  Icing  {see  page  295). 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  over  hot  water  until 
light  and  frothy.  Clarify  the  butter.  Have  it  and 
flour  at  the  same  temperature  as  the  eggs  and  sugar 
mixture.  Stir  it  in  lightly.  Last  of  all,  just  fold  in 
the  sifted  flour.  Turn  into  a  prepared  tin.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  about  40  minutes.  When  cold,  split 
and  spread  with  chocolate,  coffee,  or  vanilla  butter  icing; 
place  other  half  on  top.  Place  on  a  sugared  plate, 
sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  top,  cover  with  a  plate  and  press 
lightly.  Pour  over  water  icing.  Decorate  as  liked.  If 
required  for  small  cakes,  bake  in  a  large  shallow  tin  and 
cut  up  as  desired. 

GENOESE  BASKETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Some  Genoese  Pastry,  baked  in  dariole  moulds. 

Genoese  Pastry  (see  above). 

Apricot  Jam. 

Some  Whipped  Cream  (sweetened  and  flavoured). 

Cocoanut  or  Chopped  Pistachios. 

Scoop  out  the  inside  of  the  Genoese  pastry  moulds; 
brush    with    heated    apricot    jam.        Toss    in     chopped 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  BAKING.  277 

pistachios  or  desicated  cocoanut;  place  a  little  jam  in  the 
bottom  of  each.  Pipe  a  rosette  of  cream  on  top  with 
a  rose  forcer;  decorate  with  violets  and  angelica;  place  an 
angelica  handle  on  each.       Serve  as  a  dinner  sweet. 

JAM    SANDWICH    (1). 

INGEEDIENTS. 

3  ozs.  Flour.  2  Eggs. 

3  ozs.  sifted  Sugar.  1}  ozs.  Butter, 

i  teaspoonful  Baking  .  Some  Jam. 
Powder. 

Sift  the  flour,  after  drying,  if  necessary.  •  Beat  eggs 
and  sugar  until  light  and  frothy,  stir  in  the  melted  butter, 
gradually  add  flour  and  baking  powder,  mixing  lightly. 
Turn  into  a  prepared  tin  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven 
for  about  10  minutes  if  in  two  tins,  about  15  minutes  if 
in  one  tin.  When  cold,  split  open,  spread  with  jam  and 
sift  sugar  on  top. 

JAM    SANDWICH    (2). 

INGBBDIENTS. 

2  Eggs.  1  small  table-spoonful  Brown 

i  teacupful  Sugar.  &  Poison's  Paisley  Flour. 

J  teacupful  Flour. 

Whisk  eggs  and  sugar  for  10  minutes.  Fold  in  sifted 
flour  and  Paisley  Flour.  Pour  into  two  prepared  sandwich 
tins.      Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  8  minutes. 


SWISS   ROLL    (RICH). 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  Eggs.  1  small  teaspoonful  Baking 

3  ozs.  Sugar.  Powder. 

3  ozs.  Flour.  Flavouring,  as  liked. 

Hot  Jam. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  for  5  to  10  minutes,  add 
flavouring.       Mix    baking    powder    and    flour,    sift    into 


278  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING. 

mixture,  fold  lightly  together,  turn  into  prepared  tin ;  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  5  to  6  minutes  till  firm  to  touch  and  a 
golden  colour.  Turn  out,  spread  with  hot  jam,  roll  up 
tightly.. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

INGBBDIENTS. 

3  Eggs.  4}  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

4  ozs.  Flour,  sieved  and  Some  grated  Lemon  Bind 
weighed  after  drying.  _~  or  Essence. 

Warm  a  tin  and  grease  it  with  melted  suet;  dust  thickly 
with  a  'teaspoonful  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  sugar  mixed. 
Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat 
over  hot  water  until  warm,  then  take  off  and  whisk  until 
quite  cold  and  thick.  Sieve  the  flour,  add  it  with  the 
rind  or  essence  and  stir  lightly  into  the  beaten  eggs,  turn 
into  mould  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. 


MOCHA   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  Eggs.  Some  CofEee  Butter  Icing 

3i  ozs.  Sugar.  {see  page  296). 

3i  ozs.  Flour.  Some  Coffee  or  Pink  Water 

1  teaspoonful  CofEee  Essence.  Icing  (see  page  2i9§). 

Whisk  eggs  and  sugar  till  thick  and  creamy.  Fold  in 
the  flour,'  then  essence.  .  Pour  into  a  prepared  tin  and 
bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When  cold,  ice 
and  decorate. 

The  cake  may  be  split  into  three  and  have  a  layer  of 
pink  and  a  layer  of  coffee  icing  between  the  slices.  Then 
decorate  either  by  piping  all  over  with  rosettes  in  sections 
of  coffee  and  pink,  or  by  coating  the  sides  with  icing  and 
baked  almonds  and  piping  the  top  only. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING.  279 

RUSSIAN   SANDWICH. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  Eggs.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

6  ozs.  riour.  Powder. 

6  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  lattle  Carmine. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  Some  Chocolate  Butter  Icing. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together,  add  the  melted 
butter,  which  should  be  cool.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  fold  in  lightly.  Turn  half  of  it  into  a  cake 
tin/  colour  the  other  half  pink,  and  turn  it  into  a  similar 
tin.  3ake  in  a  moderate  oven  15  minutes.  When  cold, 
put  some  chocolate  mixture  on  the  one  half  and  place  the 
other  on  top.  Press  lightly  between  the  hands.  Coat 
with  water  icing  and  decorate  to  taste. 

WALNUT   CAKE    (a). 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Butter.  li  ozs.  Shelled  Walnuts. 

4  ozs.  Sugar.  i  teaspoofiful  Baking 

3  Eggs.  Powder. 

5  ozs.  Flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  and  eggs 
alternately.  Add  chopped  walnuts,  then  the  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  40  minutes, 
according  to  size  of  tin  used.  When  cold,  split  and 
spread  with  walnut  mixture.  Ice  with  water  icing  and 
decorate  with  walnuts. 

Walnut  Mixture  (see  page  299). 

WALNUT   CAKE    (b). 

INGREDIENTS. 

10  ozs.  Flour.  4  Eggs. 

Pinch  Salt.  1  teaspoonful  Vanilla 

4  ozs.  Butter.  Essence. 

1  gill  Milk.  Walnut  Filling  (see 

2  ozs.  Walnuts.  page  299). 

i  oz.  Baking  Powder.  Mountain  or  Feather  Icing 

9  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  (see  page  298). 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  together  on  to 

a  piece  of  paper.       Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together 


280  SOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  BAKING. 

until  they  are  white,  beat  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  stir 
in  lightly  the  flour.  Add  the  milk,  vanilla  essence,  and 
walnuts,  chopped,  and  put  the  mixture  into  two  shallow 
tins  lined  with  buttered  paper.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  about  one  hour.  When  the  cakes  are  cold,  put  them 
together  with  the  walnut  filling  between,  and  pour  the 
mountain  or  feather  icing  over  the  top;  they  may  also  be 
decorated  with  a  few  extra  walnuts* 
iVote.-^The  cake  tins  should  be  eight  inches  in  diameter. 

ORANGE   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Eggs;  weight  in  Butter,  J  teaspoonful  Babing 

Sugar,  and  Flour.  Powder. 

1  Orange,  grated  Rind  and  Orange  Pilling, 
strained  Juice.  Orange  Water  Icing. 

Use  loaf  sugar.  Rub  rough  end  on  the  rind.  Pound, 
cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  work  well  together. 
Gradually  add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  flour,  baking  powder, 
and  orange  juice.  Turn  into  prepared  cake  tin.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  35  to  40  minutes.  When  cool,  split 
and  spread  with  orange  filling,  then  cover  with  orange 
water  icing.      Decorate  with  glace  fruits  and  royal  icing. 

Orange  Filling  (see  page  299). 

Orange  Icing  (see  page  295). 

STRAWBERRY   SHORT   CAKE. 

INGEEDLENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  2  table-spoonfuls  Sugar. 

2  Yolks  of  Eggs.  For   Filling— 

1  lb.  Cornflour.  Strawberries. 
J  lb.  Butter.  Sugar. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  Baking        Cream  or  Egg  Whites. 
Powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  dry  ingredients  in  usual 
way.  Bake;  cool.  Cut  off  top.  Fill  with  crushed 
strawberries  and  sugar.  Decorate  with  strawberries  and 
whipped  cream. 


BO  VSEBOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING. 


281 


Guide  as  to  Oven  Heat  for  large  Cakes. 

Heat  increasing  when  cake  is  put  in. 
Heat  stationary  as  cake  rises  and  Browns  slightly. 
Heat  decreasing  as  cake  cracks  and  browns  all  over. 
Heat  cool  as  cake  dries  and  settles  down  in  pound. 

BACHELOR   CAKE    (NO   EGGS). 

IN&REDIENTS. 


li  lbs.  Flour. 

6  ozs.  Butter. 

1  lb.  Sugar. 

i  lb.  Baisins  (stoned). 

1  lb.  Currants. 
i  lb.  Almonds. 

2  ozs.  Carraway  Seeds. 
IJ  ozs.  Orange  Peel. 


'  2  ozs.  Citron  Peel. 
1  oz.  Cinnamon. 
1  oz.  Allspice. 

1  oz.  Ginger. 

2  teaspoonfuls  Baking  Soda. 
1  teaspoonful  Salt. 
Buttermilk. 


Mix  dry  ingredients  together.  Mix  with  buttermilk 
(not  too  soft  consistency).  Beat  20  minutes.  Bake  2i 
hours. 


LUNCH   CAKE. 


INGREDIENTS. 


1  lb.  Plour. 

3  ozs.  Lard. 
IJ  ozs.  Butter. 

4  ozs.  Currants. 
3  ozs.  Baisins. 

2  ozs.  Peel. 
6  ozs.  Sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  Ground  Cloves. 
1  teaspoonful  Mixed  Spice. 


1  teaspoonful  Ground 
Cinnamon. 

i  teaspoonful  Cream  of 

Tartar, 
i  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 

of  Soda. 

2  Eggs. 
Pinch  Salt. 
Buttermilk  to  mix. 


Prepare  the  fruit,  stoning  the  raisins  and  chopping  the 
ped.  Rub  the  fat  into  the  flour.  Mix  all  dry  ingredients. 
Beat  the  eggs  well  and  mix  to  rather  a  soft  paste.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  2  hours,  having  it  rather  hotter 
at  first. 


282  SOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  BAKING. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

INGBBDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Flour.  1  heaped  teaspoouful  Baking 

4  lb.  Sugar.  Powder. 

i  lb.  Butter.  4  teaspoonful  Essence  of 

8  ozs.  Sultanas.  Lemon  or  Almond. 

8  ozs.  Ouirants.  4  Eggs. 

8  ozg.  Peel.  Milk  to  mix. 

Pinch  Salt. 

Bub  the  butter  into  the  fiour,  add  sugar  and  cleaned 

fruit,  also  salt  and  baking  powder.      Beat  the  jeggs'well. 

Add  the  essence  and  about  1  breakfast-cupful  of  milk. 

Add  this  to  the  dry  ingredients.      Mix  all  to  a  soft  paste. 

Beat  well.       Turn  into  a  greased  and  prepared  tin  and 

bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  3i  hours. 

ST.   GEORGE'S   HALL   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  2  Eggs. 

3  to  4  ozs.  Butter.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

3  ozs.  Sugar.  Powder. 

3  ozs.  Currants.  Pinch  Salt. 

1  oz.  Peel.  Little  Milk. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour.  Add  the  dry  ingredients. 
Gradually  add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Beat  well. 
Turn  into  a  prepared  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  1  to  li  hours. 

L   GINGERBREAD    (GOOD). 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Butter.  1  teaspoonful  Ground  Clovee. 

§  lb.  Treacle.  1  teaspoonful  Baking  Soda, 

i  lb.  Sugar.  i  lb.  Raisins. 

1  lb.  Flour.  I  lb.  Almonds. 

2  teaspoonfuls  Cinnamon.  J  lb.  Preserved  Ginger. 
2  teaspoonfuls  Mixed  Spice.  4  Eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls   Ground 
Ginger. 

Melt  the  butter,  treacle  and'  sugar.  Mix  the  dry 
ingredients,  add  prepared  fruit,  beat  the  eggs  and  mix 
all  together.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  hours. 


BOUSEHOLD  COOKEEY  — BAKING.  283 

2.   GINGERBREAD    (DAMP). 

INGREDIENTS. 

10  ozs.  Flour.  J  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 

3  ozs.  Almonds.  of  Soda. 

i  lb.   Treacle.  IJ   teaspoonfuls  Ground 

6  ozs.  Butter.  Ginger. 

6  ozs.  Brown  Sugar.  IJ  teaspoonfuls  Cinnamon. 

6  ozs.  Sultanas.  Warm  Milk. 

2  Eggs. 

Cream  the  butter.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  and  treacle, 
then  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  little  milk  if  necessary. 
Bake  aJb^t  two  hours. 

-    1 
't   3.   GINGERBREAD    (SPONGY). 

INGEEDIKNTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  4  teaspoonful  Cinnamon. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  J  teaspoonful  Soda. 

2  ozs.  Sugar.  1  Egg. 

1  table-spoonful  Treacle.  Pinch.  Salt. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Syrup.  3  table-spoonfuls  Boiling 
1  teaspoonful  Ground  Water. 

Ginger. 

Eub  butter  into  flour.  Mix  dry  ingredients.  Whisk 
egg.  Boil  treacle  and  ^  sjrrup.  Add  to  egg,  whisking 
meanwhile.  Pour  among  dry  ingredients.  Add  hot 
water.       Pour  into  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


WHITE   CAKE    (FOUNDATION   CAKE). 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  .Flour.  10  ozs.  Sugar. 

i  lb.  Butter.  1  small  teaspoonful  Baking 

6  or  7  Eggs  (according  Powder, 

to  size).                       '  Flavouring  (if  liked). 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  sift  the  flour,  beat  the  eggs. 
Add  beaten  eggs  gradually,  then  the  sifted  flour  mixed 
with  the  baking  powder.  Lastly,  add  essence.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  about  two  hours. 


284  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  BAKING. 

The  above  mixture  can  be  made  into  a  fruit  cake — 
sultana,  cherry,  peel,  ginger,  etc. — by  adding  1  to  li  lbs. 
of  any  fruit  or  mixture  of  fruit  desired,  e.g.,  glace  cherries, 
ginger,  pineapple,  almonds,  currants,  raisins,  sultanas, 
peel,  etc.      Fruit  takes  longer  to  bake. 

MADEIRA   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

White  Cake  Mixture.  Little  Grated  Lemon  Bind. 

2  strips  of  Citron  Peel.  Pinch  Salt. 

Add  grated  lemon  rind  to  cake  mixture.  Turn  into  a 
prepared  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  IJ 
to  2  hours.  When  the  cake  is  half-baked,  place  the  slices 
of  peel  on  top. 

DUNDEE   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Butter.  1  oz.  Almonds. 

5  ozs.  Sugar.  4  Eggs. 

8  ozs.  FlouT.  3  ozs.  Currants. 

li  ozs.  Peel.  3  ozs.  Raisins. 

i  teaspoonful  Baking  3   ozs.  Sultanas. 

Powder. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  eggs  and 
flour  alternately,  "then  fruit  and  baking  powder.  Place 
in  a  prepared  cake  tin.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  10 
minutes,  then  sprinkle  blanched  aimonds  on  top  and  cook 
more  slowly  about  li  hours. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Flour.  1  small  teaspoonful  Baking 
4  ozs.  Butter.  Powder. 

4  ozs.  Sugar.  Pinch  Salt. 

3  Eggs.  Flavouring, 
li  ozs.  Cocoanut. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  till  creamy.  Beat  up  eggs,  add, 
and  then  add  cocoanut,  then  gradually  the  sifted  flour  and 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEHY  —  BAKING.  285 

baking  powder.       Add  flavouring.       Mix  lightly.       Turn 
into  prepared  tin  and  bake  till  firm  to  touch  (1  hour).' 
If  liked,  ice  when  cold  with  water  icing  and  sprinkle  with, 
eocoannt. 

RICE   CAKE. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Ground  Biee.  4  Eggs, 

i  lb.  Flour.  Pinch  Salt. 

6  ozs.  Sifted  Sugar.  Milk. 

6  ozs.  Butter.  J  teaspoonful  Essence  of 
i  teaspoonful  Baking  Lemon. 

Powder. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  the  eggs 
well  and  add  alternately  with  the  flour  and  ground  rice 
and  baking  powder.  If  not  moist  enough,  add  a  little 
milk.  Last  of  all,  add  essence  of  lemon.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  2J  hours. 


CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

}  breakfast-cupful  Butter.  |  teaspoonful  Cream  of 

li  breakfast-cupfuls  Sugar.  Tartar. 

}  breakfast-cupful  Milk.  Whites  of  5  Eggs. 

2i  breakfast-cupfuls  Flour.  2  squares  Baker's  Chocolate, 

i  teaspoonful  Baking  Soda.  grated. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  gradually  add  milk  and 
flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  soda  and  cream  of  tartar. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  and  add  to  mixture ;  then  add  chocolate 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  45  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  When  cake  is  just  removed  from  tin  and  still 
hot,  cover  bottom  with  marsh-mallows,  split  in  half  in 
order  that  sticky  side  may  come  next  to  cake.  Coat 
all  with  chocolate  water  icing  (see  page  296). 


286 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKMMY  —  BAKING. 


RAISIN   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

10  0Z8.  Flour.  i  lb.  Almonds. 

i  lb.  Butter.  4  Eggs.         . 

jf  lb.  Sugar.  Small  teaspoonful  Baking 

i  lb.  Eaisins.  Powder. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  flour 

and   baking   powder   and  beaten  eggs.  Add  the  fruit, 

stoned   and    roughly    chopped.       Blanch  and    shred    the 

almonds  and  sprinkle  them  over  the  top.  Bake  the  cake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  2  hours. 

SCOTCH   POUND   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 


J  lb.  Butter. 
J  lb.  Sugar. 
10  ozs.  Flour. 
4  Eggs. 

2  ozs.  chopped' Peel. 

3  ozs.  Sultanas. 


3  ozs.  Currants. 
Grated  rind  of  1  Lemon.- 
Milk,  if  neeessftry. 
Small  teaspoonful  Baking 
Powder. 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  flour  alternately 
with  the  well-beaten  eggs,  then  the  fruit  which  has  been 
prepared.  Beat  well,  and,  lastly,  add  the  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours.  If  the  eggs  are  a 
good  size  no  milk  is  needed. 


PLUM   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 


}  lb.  ^lour. 
I  lb.  Sugar, 
i  lb.  Butter. 
8  Eggs, 
i  lb.  Baisins. 
J  lb.  Currants. 
1  lb.  Almonds,  chopped  or 
shredded. 


6  ozs.  Orange  and  Lemon 

Peel. 
2  ozs.  Citron  Peel. 
IJ  teaspoonfuls  Cinnamon, 
li  teaspoonfuls  Ginger. 
I  teaspoonful  Mixed  Spice. 
i  teaspoonful  Baking 

Powder. 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  spice,  then  flour 
alternately  with  the  well-beaten  eggs.      Next  add  the  fruit. 


HOUSEBOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING.  287 

which  has  been  prepared.      Beat  well,  and,  lastly,  add  the 
baking  powder.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  three  to 
four  hours. 
N.B. — Double  quantity  of  currants  may  be  used  if  liked. 

SIMNEL   CAKE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

t  lb.  Flour.  i  wine-glass  Brandy, 

i  lb.  Ourrants.  i  Nutmeg, 

i  lb.  Mixed  Peel.  i  teaspoonful  Soda, 
}  lb.  Blue  Kaisins.  diBsolved  in  1  table- 

i  lb.  Sultanas.  spoonful  Vinegar. 

2  ozB.  Almonds,  Almond  Paste. 
}  lb.  Butter.  Preserved  Fruit. 
J  lb.  Sugar.  Eoyal  Icing. 

3  or  4  Eggs. 

Prepare  the  cake  in  the  usual  way.  Spread  a  layer 
in  a  prepared  cake  tin.  Place  in  a  layer  of  almond 
paste,  then  a  layer  of  cake  mixture.  Bake  four  hours. 
Decorate  with  almond  paste,  preserved  fruits,  and 
royal  icing. 

SCOTCH   CURRANT   BUN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

For  Lining —  i  lb.  Sugar. 

li  breakfast-eupfula  Flour.       1  oz.  Jamaica  Pepper. 

J  lb.  Butter.  J  oz.  Ground  Ginger. 

Cold  Water.  i  oz.  Ground  Cinnamon. 

i  teaspoonful  Baking  J  teaspoonful  Black  Pepper. 

Powder.  1  small  teaspoonful  Cream  of 
Mixture —  Tartar. 

2  lbs.  Blue  Raisins.  1  small  teaspoonful  Baking 

3  lbs.  Currants.  Soda. 

i  lb.  Almonds,  not  blanched.     1  breakfast-cupful  Milk. 
}  lb.  Flour. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  baking  powder,  mix 
to  a  stiff  paste  with  water,  and  roll  out  in  a  thin  sheet. 
Grease  the  inside  of  a  cake  tin  and  line  it  neatly  with 
the  paste,  reserving  a  piece  the  size  of  the  tin  for  the 
top  of  the  bun. 


288  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  BAKING. 

Prepare  the  fruit,  add  to  the  flour,  sugar,  spices,  baking 
soda,  cream  of  tartar,  and  sufficient  milk  to  just  moisten. 
Mix  all  thoroughly  together  and  put  the  mixture  into  the 
lined  tin.  Make  flat  on  the  top,  wet  the  edges  round, 
and  put  on  the  piece  of  paste  reserved  for  the  purpose. 
Prick  it  all  over  -with  a  fork,  brush  with  a  little  egg,  and 
put  in  a  moderate  oven  from  3  to  4  hours. 

BISCUITS. 

Average  Proportiona — 
6  ozs.  Flour.  3  ozs.  Sugar. 

4  ozs.  Butter. 


SHREWSBURY   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Butter.  -      1   teaspoonful  Oarraway 
3  ozs.  Sugar.  Seeds,  or  i  teaspoonful 

1  small  Egg.  Ciimamon. 

6  ozs  Flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  flour  and  the 
seeds  and  sufficient  beaten  egg  to  mix  stiffly.  Let  it 
stand  in  a  cool  place.  Roll  out  on  a  well-floured  board 
and  cut  in  small  biscuits.  Place  on  a  greased  tin  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  a  pale  brown. 


LEMON   BISCUITS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  OZS.  Flour.  4  ozs.  Butter. 

3  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  1  small  Fgg. 

Grated  Lemon  Bind. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  flour,  then  egg 
and  rind.  Lay  aside  for  1  hour.  Roll  out  thinly  and 
cut  into  biscuits.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sift 
with  sugar. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  BAKING.  289 

GINGER  BISCUITS. 

INGBEDIBNTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  i  lb.  Butter. 

3  ozs.  Sugar.  |  teaspoonful  BaMng 

Pmch  Salt.  Powder. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  Ginger.  Little  Milk,  if  required. 

1  Egg.  - 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  &  cream;  mix  in  the 
ginger,  add  a  little  of  the  flour,  the  egg  well  beaten, 
the  baking  powder,  remainder  of  the  flour,  salt,  and  mUk 
if  required.  Turn  on  to  a  floured  board ;  work  till  smooth, 
roll  out  thinly,  cut  into  biscuits  with  a  cutter,  lay  on  a 
greased  tin.      Bake  for  about  20  minutes  in  a  cool  oven. 

IMPERIAL   BISCUITS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  1  teaapoonful  Ground 

i  lb.  Butter.  Cumamon. 

1  lb.  Sugar.  Jam  and  Water  Icing  (s«e 

1  small  Egg.  page  295). 
J  teaspoonful  Baking 

Powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  flour,  cinnamon 
and  baking  powder,  also  egg  by  degrees.  Work  smoothly. 
Set  aside  to  become  stiff.  Roll  out  thinly  and  cut  into 
biscuits.  Bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Spread  half  the  biscuits  with  jam,  place  the  others  on 
top.  Then  put  on  one  teaspoonful  of  water  icing  and 
a  small  piece  of  cherry. 

CHOCOLATE    BISCUITS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
J  lb.  Butter.  6  ozs.  Flour. 

2  ozs.  grated  Chocolate.  Walnut  Mixture. 

1  Egg.  Walnuts  and  Angelica. 

J  lb.  Sugar. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  egg 
gradually,   and    also    flour    and    chocolate.       When    stiff 


290  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING. 

enough  roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  rather  thinly.  Cut 
into  biscuits  and  prick.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till 
firm.  Cool  on  a  sieve.  Spread  one  with  walnut  mixture 
and  place  another  on  top.  Coat  with  chocolate  icing. 
Decorate  with  angelica,  walnuts,  and  crystallized  violets. 

Walnut  rilling  (see  page  299). 

Chocolate  Water  Icing  (see  page  296). 

JUMBLE   BISCUITS. 

INGKEDIBNTS. 

i.  lb.  riour.  1  Egg. 

J  lb.  Sugar.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

1  lb.  Butter.  Powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  etc.  Place  in  squirt.  Force 
on  a  greased  tin.      Bake  in  quick  oven  10  minutes. 

RICE    BISCUITS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
4  ozs.  each  of  Sugar,  Butter,  Ground  Rice,  and  Flour. 
1  Egg. 

Make  into  a  paste  with  one  egg.  Roll  out  and  cut 
in  rounds.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  a  golden  brown 
and  till  crisp. 

HUNTER'S    NUTS. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

2  OZS.  Flour.  1  oz.  Brown  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Wheaten  Meal.  2i  ozs.  Golden  Syrup. 

2  ozs.  Oatmeal.  Grated  IiCmon  Bind. 

i  teaspoonful  Ground  Ginger,  i  teaspoonful  Bi-carbonate 

i  teaspoonful  Allspice.  of  Soda. 

li  ozs.  Butter. 

Melt  butter  and  syrup.  Dissolve  soda  in  warm  water. 
Mix  all  dry  ingredients.  Add  butter,  syrup,  and  soda. 
Work  into  stiff  dough.  Knead  till  smooth.  Divide  into 
ten.      Roll  into  balls.      Place  good  space  apart  on  greased 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKIN:G.  291 

tin.       Place  half -blanched  almond  on  top;  bake  in  cool 
-oven  20  minutes. 


NAPOLEON  CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  1  oz.  Sweet  Almonds. 

3  ozs.  Butter.  1 'oz.  Sifted  Sugar. 

1  Yolk  of  Egg.  Raspberry  Jam. 

Blanch,  mince,  and  pound  the  almonds,  or  use  ground 
almonds.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  sugar  and 
almonds.  Mix  well.  Moisten  with  enough  yolk  of  egg 
to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Put  aside  one  hour  to  firm.  Then 
roll  out  in  two  thin  sheets.  Bake  a  pale  brown  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Spread  one  with  jam.  Lay  the  other 
on  top.  Cut  into  fingers  while  hot.  Serve,  as  a  sweet, 
piled  on  lace  paper  in  crystal  dish.      Dust  with  icing  sugar. 


MASERINES. 

.  INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  i  oz.  Castor  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  1  Yolk  of  Egg. 

1  oz.  Ground  Almonds. 

Cream'  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour,  ground  almonds  and 
mix  to  a  stiff  paste- with  egg.  *  Eoll  into  a  strip  4-5  ins. 
wide  and  8-10  ins.  length.  From  width  cut  off  on  either 
side,  two  strips  |  in.  wide.  Place  each  on  top  of  big 
strip  either  side — cut  edge  to  cut  edge.  Half  cook  in 
a  hot  oven;  remove,  spread  with  jam  and  place  mixture 
on  top.      Cook  another  15-20  minutes  and  cut  into  fingers. 

Mixture. 

i  lb.  Granulated  Sugar.  1  table-spoonful  grated 

2  ozs.  roughly  chopped  Chocolate, 
blanched  Alm'onds.  1  White  of  Egg. 

Whisk  up  white  till  stiff,  then  place  all  ingredients 
into  a  pan,  bring  to  the  boil  and  use  at  once. 


292  EOUSESOLD  COOKEST  —  BAKING. 

COBURG  CAKES. 

INGBEDIENTS. 
5  ozs.  riour.  Small  teas^ponful  Cinnainon. 

2J  ozs.  Sugar.  1  teaspooiLful  Treacle. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  .  ]   teaspoonful  Syrup. 

Grating  Nutmeg.  i   teaspoonful 

1  Egg.  Bi'earbona^e  of   Soda. 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients.  Heat  butter,  syrup  and  treacle. 
Beat  up  egg  and  add  a  little  milk.  Mix  to  a  fairly  soft 
consistency.  Place  i  an  almond  in  the  bottom  of  each 
greased  patty  tin,  and  pour  in  some  of  the  mixture. 

Bake  20-30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PARKINS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Oatmeal.  J   teaspoonful  Spice. 

i  lb.  Flour.  4  teaspoonful  Cmnamon. 

2  ozs.  Lard.  I    teaspoonful   Ginger. 

3  ozs.  Syrup.  Small  teaspoonful 

3  ozs.  Sugar.  Bi-carbonate  of  Soda, 

i  Egg.  Tew  Almonds. 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Rub  in  lard.  Add  syrup  and 
egg.  Mix  to  a  fairly  stifE  dough.  Place  on  a  greased 
tin  in  teaspoonfuls — placing  well  apart.  Put  J  almond 
on  top  of  each  biscuit.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven 
about  20  minutes. 

FRUIT  CAKES. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

i  lb.  Eough  Puff  Pastry.  1  teaspoonful  Spice. 

J  lb.  Currants.  2  ozs.   Sugar. 

1  Apple.  1  oz.  chopped  Peel. 

1  oz.  melted  Margarine. 

Wash  currants.  Chop  apple  finely.  Mix  all  ingredi- 
ents. Roll  4  pastry  into  square.  Place  on  mixture. 
Lay  other  half  of  pastry  on  top.  '  Mark,  brush  with  egg. 
Bake  in  a  hot.oven.  Cut  in  squares  and  dust  with  icing 
sugar. 


EOVSEEOLD  COOKEMY  —  BAKING.  293 

ALMOND   MACAROONS. 

Small  tins  lined  with  puff,  flaky  or  ricli  short  pastry. 

Place  a  small  quantity  of  raspherry  jam  in  each  tin  on 

top  of  pastry  and  the  following  mixture  on  top  : — 

2  Whites  of  Eggs.  2  ozs.  Ground  Almonds. 

2  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  Almond  Essence. 

Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  20-30  minutes. 
TANTALLON   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

7  ozs.  Flour.  2  ozs.  Sugar. 

4  ozs.  Butter. 

Prepare  as  for  shortbread.  Cut  out  with  a  star  cutter. 
Bake  a  pale  colour  in  a  hot  oven. 

BRANDY   SNAPS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  FlouT.  i  lb.  Syrup, 

i  lb.  Butter.  J  oz.  Ginger. 

J  lb.  Sugar.  Juice  of  i  Lemon. 

Place  all  in  a  pan  and  just  warm.  Put  on  in  tea- 
spoonfuls  on  a  well-greased  tin,  six  inches  apart.  Bake 
till  a  nice  brown,  allow  to  stand  a  second  and  roll  up. 
These  may  be  stored  in  tins  till  required.  When  cool, 
cream  may  be  piped  inside  and  the  ends  iiecorated  with 
crystallized  violets  and  angelica. 

MACAROONS. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Ground  Almonds.  6  small  Whites  of  Eggs 

1  oz.  Bice  Flour.  (beat,  leave  overnight). 

Bice  Paper.  1  teaspoonful  Vanilla 

1  lb.  Castor  Sugar.  Essence. 

Few  shredded  Almonds. 

Put  the  almonds,  castor  sugar  and  whites  of  eggs  into 
a  basin,  and  cream  them  well  together  for  ten  minutes. 


294  BOUSEHOLD  COOKEB¥  —  BAKING. 

Add  the  rice  flour  and  vanilla  essence,  then  pour  the 
mixture  into  a  bag  with  a  half -inch  plain  pipe.  Put  this 
out  on  to  rice  paper  in  rounds  about  the  size  of  a  penny, 
decorate  with  shredded  almonds,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  about  20  minutes. 

ALMOND   HORSESHOES. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Grovmd  Almonds.  4  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

J  oz.  Bice  Flour.  3  Tolks  of  Eggs. 

1  oz.  chopped  Almonds.  Eioe  Paper. 

Pound  the  ground  almonds,  sugar,  rice  flour,  and  yolks 
of  eggs  in  a  mortar  until  thoroughly  mixed;  then  shape 
into  narrow  strips  four  inches  in  len^h,  roll  them  in  the 
chopped  almonds  and  bend  into  .the  form  of  a  crescent. 
Put  on  to  rice  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from 
15  to  20  minutes. 


ALMOND   RING   CAKES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Flour.  i  of  an  Egg. 

2  ozB.  Butter.  Almond  Mixture  (see 
1  oz.  Castor  Sugar.  page  295). 

Bed  Currant  Jelly.  Chopped  Pistachio  Nuts. 
}  teaspoonful  Baking 
Powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  .together  until  they  are 
white,  add  the  quarter  of  an  egg,  and  gradually  add  the 
flour  and  baking  powder.  Work  until  smooth,  then  roll 
out  and  stamp  into  rounds  with  a  fluted  cutter.  Put 
the  almond  mixture  in  a  bag  with  a  rose  forcer  and 
press  some  of  the  mixture  round  each .  biscuit.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven  for  about  15  minutes.  When  cool,  put  half 
teaspoonful  of  red  currant  jelly  in  the  centre ,  of  each 
cake  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  pistachio  nuts. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEUY  —  BAKING.  295 

Almond  Mixture. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Ground  Almonds.  2  ozs.  Castor  Sugar. 

1)  Whites  of  Eggs.  6  drops  Batafia  Essence. 

Whisk  the  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  and  mix  with  the  other 
ingredients. 

COCOANUT   PYRAMIDS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Cocoanut.  li  ozs.  Bice  Flour. 

4  ozs.  Castor  Sugar.  3  WMtea  of  Eggs. 

J  teaspoonful  Vanilla  Bice  Paper. 
Essence. 

Whisk  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  then 
stir  in  lightly  the  riee  flour,  castor  sugar,  cocoanut,  and 
vanilla  essence.  Divide  the  mixture  into  small  heaps 
and  put  it  on  to  rice  paper;  then  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
antU  they  are  a  light  brown  colour. 

N.B. — Half  the  mixture  may  be  coloured  a  pale  pink. 

ICINGS   AND    FILLINGS. 
WATER   ICING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  or  3  table-apoonfuls  Boiling  Water  or  Fruit  Juice. 

j  lb.  Sifted  Icing  Sugar. 

Flavouring. 

Mix  all  together. 

N.B. — ^Different  flavourings  and  colourings  may  be  added 
as  desired,  e.g.,  coffee  essence.  ' 

ORANGE   WATER   ICINa 

INGBEDIENTS. 
6  ozs.  Icing  Sugar.  li  table-spoonfuls  Oraoga 

Juice. 

Sieve  the  sugar,  add  orange  juice  and  mix  well.  Just 
make  warm  and  use. 


296  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING. 

CHOCOLATE   WATER   ICING. 

INGHEDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Icing  Sugar.  1  teaspoonful  Vanilla 

3  ozs.  grated  Chocolate.  ^Essence, 
li  table-spoonful  Water. 

Boil  chocolate  and  water  together,  add  sugar  and 
beat  well. 

BUTTER   ICING    (CHOCOLATE). 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  OZS.  Fresh  Butter.  6  ozs.  sieved  Icing  Sugar. 
4  ozs.  gtated  Chocolate. 

Melt  half  the  butter  and  add  the  chocolate  to  it.  Cream 
the  other  half  and  add  it  to  the  melted  butter  and  chocolate 
gradually.  Mix  well,  then  gradually  add  the  sugar. 
Beat  well.       Use  when  still  soft. 

N.B. — Coffee  and  other  Butter  Icings  made  as  above 
without  requiring  to  melt  any  of  the  butter.  Any 
flavourings  and  colourings  may  be  added. 

ROYAL    ICING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  sieved  Icing  Sugar.  2  Whites  of  Eggs. 

Lemon  Juice. 

Add  sugar  gradually  to  slightly  whisked  eggs;  then  add 
lemon  juice.      Beat  well. 

FONDANT  COATING  FOR  CAKES. 

Take  some  prepared  fondant  (see  page  297).  Place  in  a 
pan,  add  some  water  or  thin  reducing  syrup  (IJ  lbs.  sugar 
and  one  pint  water  brought  to  boiling  point  and  used  for 
such  ipurposes).  Add  enough  liquid  to  moisten,  place 
over  a  slight  heat  and  stir,  do  not  beat,  till  liquid.  Pour 
over  cake. 

Fondant  should  only  be  blood  heat  when  used,  else  it 
goes  sugary  and  hardens,  so  if  still  stifif  add  more  liquid. 
If  beaten,  it  is  full  dt  air-holes  and  not  smooth. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BAKING.  297 

FONDANT. 
Full  quantity — 

INGEEDIENTS. 

3  lbs.  Sugar.  1  table-spoonful  Glucose. 

1  pint  Water. 

For  smaller  quantity — 

INGBEDIENTS. 
li  lbs.  Sugar.  1  dessert-spoonful  Glucose. 

J  pint  Water. 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  pan.  Stir  till  dissolved — a 
gentle  heat — do  not  boil — then  add  glucose  and  preserver. 
Stir  till  dissolved.  Remove  any  scum.  BoU  briskly. 
Place  in  thermometer,  leaning  against  side  of  pan — do 
not  stir  or  shake  pan.  When  thermometer  registers 
238  deg.,  lift  out  thermometer  into  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Allow  syrup  to '  settle — pour  into  a  basin  rinsed  in  cold 
water.  —  Have  it  not  deeper  than  1  to  IJ  inches.  When 
the  finger  can  bear  to  touch  it,  begin  to  stir  with  a  wooden  ' 
spoon  till  firm,  then  knead  to  a  creamy  mass.  Place  in 
a  jar  and  cover  with  waxed  paper,  then  a  thick  towel, 
and  a  plate  on  top.  It  will  keep  several  months.  Allow 
to  mellow  at  least  one  hour  before  use. 

N.B. — Keep  brushing  sides  of  pan  (when  cooking)  with 
pastry  brush,  dipped  in  hot  water. 

TRANSPARENT   ICING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  Juice  of  J  Lemon. 

i  pint  Water.  ' 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  water  together  in  a  stewpan. 
Then  boil  them 'until  229  degrees  is  registered  on  the 
saecharometer.  While  boiling,  the  sugar  must  be  well 
skimmed  and  the  sides  of  the  pan  brushed  down  with  a 
little  clean  water.  When  the  sugar  has  reached  229 
degrees,  pour  it  into  a  clean  basin,  add  the  lemon  juice. 


298  BOUSEBOLD  COOKERY  —  BAKING. 

and  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  thick  and  white; 
it  is  then  ready  to  pour  over  the  cake. 

N.B. — This  icing  is  useful  to  form  a  last  coat  on  a  cake 
that  has  been  iced  with  royal  icing. 

ALMOND    ICING   OR   PASTE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Ground  Almonds.  Few  drops  of  Almond 

i  lb.  Icing  Sugar.  Essence. 

1  table-spoonful  Orange  2  whole  Eggs,  or 

Flower  Water.  2  Whites,  or 

2  Tolks. 

Mix  almonds  and  sugar  well,  add  almond  essence,  orange 
flower  water,  and,  lastly,  beaten  «ggs.       Knead  well. 

N.B. — Equal  quantities  of  almonds,  icing  sugar,  and 
castor  sugar  may  be  used  if  liked. 

MOUNTAIN   OR   FEATHER   ICING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  1  gill  Water. 

2  Whites  of  Eggs. 

Whisk  slightly  the  whites  of  egg^.  Dissolve  the  sugar 
in  the  water  and  then  boil  together  until  240  degrees  is 
registered  on  the  saccharometer ;  pour  this  syrup  on  to 
the  whites  of  eggs  and  whisk  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  then  pour  the  icing  over  the  cake. 

N.B. — This  icing  may  be  coloured  if  j)referred. 
CONFECTIONERS'  CUSTARD^ 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Milk.  1  oz.  Castor  Sugar. 

2  Yolks  of  Eggs.  i  teaspoonful  Vanilla 

}  oz.  Cornflour.  Essence. 

Mix  the  cornflour  and  milk  to  a  smooth  paste,  stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  it  boUs,  then  let  it  simmer  for  ten 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  BAKING.  299 

minutes.  Add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  vanilla, 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  custard  has  thickened;  it 
should  not  be  allowed  to  boil.  When  eool,  the  custard 
is  ready  for  use,  and  may  be  used  instead  of  whipped 
cream  for  filling  eclairs,  etc. 


ALMOND    FILLING. 

INGREDIENTS. 
3  table-spoonfuls  Ground  Almonds. 
3  table-spoonfuls  Apricot  Jam. 
1  teaspoonful  Maraschino. 

Bub  the  jam  through  a  hair  sieve.  Mix  all  well 
together  and  use  as  required. 

N.B. — The  addition  of  two  table-spoonfuls  of  whipped 
cream  is  an  improvement,  but,  if  put  in,  the  filling  must 
be  used  at-  once. 


ORANGE    FILLING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Bind  of  1  Orange.  2  ozs.  Cornflour. 

Juice  of  2  Oranges.  2  Yolks. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Lemon  2  ozs.  Sugar. 

Juice.  1  oz.  Fresh  Butter. 
Enough  Water  to  make 

Juice  equal  to  i  pint. 

Boil  all,  add  eggs  and  butter  last.      Cool  and  use. 


WALNUT  FILLING. 

INGREDIENTS. 
3  table-spoonfuls  Ground  Almonds. 
1  teaspoonful  Vanilla  Essence. 
1  table-spoonful  chopped  Walnuts. 
3  table-spoonfuls  Apricot  Jam. 

Bub  the  jam  through  a  hair  sieve.      Mix  all  together 
and  use  as  required. 


300  HOUSEHOLD  C00KES7  —  BAKING. 

CREAM   SUBSTITUTE, 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  teacupful  Milk.  1  large  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

1  dessert-spoonful  Cornflour.     Pinch  Salt. 
1  oz.  Butter.  Flavouring. 

Make  the  cornflour  and  milk  into  a  sauce,  and  allow  to 
become  cool.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add 
cornflour  to  it  a  little  at  a  time.  Beat  thoroughly  till 
creamy  and  smooth,  add  flavouring  and  use  as  required. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  PASTBT.  301 

PASTRY, 

SUET   CRUST. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8  ozs.  Flour.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

3  to  4  ozs.  Suet.  Powder. 

J  teaspoonful  Salt.  About  1  gill  Water. 

Remove  skin  from  suet,  shred  and  chop  finely,  using 
some  of  the  measured  flour  if  necessary.  Mix  all  the 
dry  ingredients.  Rub  suet  into  flour  with  fingers.  Mix 
with  cold  water  to  an  elastic  consistency.  Turn  on  to  a 
floured  board,  roll  once  and  use  as  required.  May  be 
boiled,  steamed  or  baked. 

SHORT   CRUST. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8   ozs.  Flour.  J  teaspoonful  Salt. 

4  ozs.  Shortening  (margarine,     Cold  Water  to  moisten 
lard,  or  dripping).  (about  i  gill). 

Cut  the  shortening  into  the  flour,  then  rub  till  like  fine 
breadcrumbs;  add  all  dry  ingredients,  mix  well.—  Mix 
very  stiffly  with  cold  water,  work  slightly  till  smooth. 
Roll  out  once  and  use  as  required.      Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

N.B, — For  sweet  dishes  the  above  pastry  should  have 
one  table-spoonful  sifted  sugar  added  to  the  flour. 

If  a  smaller  proportion  of  shortening  be  used,  J  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder  should  be  added  to  8  ozs. 
of  flour. 

ROUGH    PUFF   PASTRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8  ozs.  Flour.  About  1  gill  Cold  Water. 

5-6  ozs.  Shortening.  About  1  teaspoonful 

i  teaspoonful  Salt.  _  Lemon  Juice. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  cut  shortening  into  4  pieces 
and  put  into  flour;  make  well  in  centre  of  flour.       Add 


302  HOUSEHOLD  COOKEB¥  —  FASTBT. 

lemon  juice  to  cold  water  and  mix  to  an  elastic  consistency. 
Turn  on  to  a  floured  board,  work  a  little,  roll  out  in  a 
long  strip,  flour  lightly,  fold  in  three,  roll  out  again, 
again  flour  and  fold,  roll  out  a  third  time,  and  if  necessary, 
a  fourth.  Use  for  sweet  and  savoury,  dishes;  bake  in 
a  hot  oven. 

POTATO   PASTRY    (1). 

INGBEDIEKTS. 

i  lb.  Potatoes.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

i  lb.  Flour.  Powder. 

3  ozs.  MaTgarine  or  Butter. 

Rub  the  shortening  into  the  flour.  Add  the  baking 
powder  and  mix  in  the  sieved  potatoes,  and  enough  cold 
water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out-  and  use  as  short 
pastry. 

POTATO   PASTRY    (2). 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  OZS.  Dripping.  1  teaspoonful  Baking 

4  ozB.  mashed  Potatoes.  Powder. 
3  ozs.  Flour.                                Salt. 

2  ozs.  Eice  Flour. 

Cream  butter.  Add  potato,  then  rice  flour  and  salt. 
Then  flour  and  baking  powder.       (No  water.) 


RICH   SHORT   CRUST. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  Little  Lemon  Juice 

5  ozs.  Butter.  (J  teaspoonful). 

1  Yolk  of  Egg.  1  table-spoonful  Castor  Sugar 

Pinch  Salt.  (if  for  sweet  dishes). 

Cold  Water. 

Rub  the  butter  mto  the  flour,  add  sugar  and  salt.  Add 
little  water,  about  |  gUl,  to  the  yolk,  then  mix  all  to  a 
stiff  paste.  Use  as  required  for  sweet  or  savoury  dishes. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


E0U8EB0LD  C00KES7 —  PASTMY.  303 

SPICED   SHORT   CRUST. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  1  table-spoonful  Castor  Sugar. 

i  lb.  Butter.  1  teaspoonful  Ciimamon. 

1  Egg.  Little  cold  Water. 

Mix  as  above.       If  to  line  deep  tins,  the  whole  egg 

should  be  used,  as  it  makes  the  pastry  bind  better,  but 

is  less  short  and  crisp.       This  is  used  chiefly  for  spiced 

apple  tart. 

FLAKY    PASTRY. 

INGEEDIENTS. 
i  lb.  riour.  Cold  Water  (about  1  gill). 

Finch  of  Salt.  i  teaspoonful  Lemon  Juice. 

6  0Z9.  Lard  and  Butter 
(mixed). 

Mix  the  lard  and  butter  together.  Divide  into  four. 
Rub  one  part  into  the  flour,  to  which  pinch  of  salt  is 
added.  Add  lemon  to  the  water  and  mix  to  an  elastic 
dough.  Turn  out  on  to  a  board  and  work  lightly.  Roll 
out,  place  one  part  of  the  butter  and  lard  on  in  little 
pats.  Flour,  fold  and  roll  out  again.  Proceed  similarly 
with  the  rest  of  the  shortening.  Set  pastry  aside  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place.  Roll  out  twice  more,  in 
all  giving  five  rollings.      Use  as  required. 

PUFF    PASTRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  Pinch  Salt. 

i  lb.  Butter.  Water  to  mix. 

i  teaspoonful  Lemon  Juice. 

Press  the  butter  lightly  in  the  comer  of  a  fioured  cloth. 

Rub  a  small  piece  of  the  butter  into  the  flour.      Add  salt. 

Mix  water  and  lemon  juice.      Mix  with  flour  to  an  elastic 

consistency.       Work  lightly  till  smooth.       Roll  out  in  a 

square.       Then  put  the  square  pat  of  butter  in  the  centre 

of  the  paste  and  fold  over.      Press  lightly  with  the  roller 

and  roll  out  in  a  long  strip,  always  keeping  the  open  ends 

to  and  from  one.      Flour,  fold  in  three,  and  roll  out  again. 


304  SOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  FASTBY . 

Roll  out  once  more,  and  set  aside  in  cool  place  half  an 
hour;  then  roll  out  twice  more,  and  set  aside  again;  then 
roll  out  twice  more  and  use.  Puff  pastry  should  be  rolled 
seven  times. 

HOT  WATER   CRUST 
OR   RAISED    PIE   CRUST. 

INGEEDIENTS. 
i  lb.  Flour.  1  gill  Milk. 

i  lb.  Lard.  f  tea^poonful  Salt. 

Add  salt  to  flour.  Boil  milk  and  lard,  stir  into  the 
flour,  knead  well  till  smooth,  allow  to  stand  ten  minutes. 
Keep  warm  and  use  for  raised  pork  pies,  game  pies,  or 
raised  fruit  pies. 

CHOUX   PASTRY. 

INGEEDIENTS.. 
2i  ozs.  Sifted  Flour.  J  pint  Water. 

2  small  Eggs.  Vanilla  Essence. 

1  oz.  Butter.  Pinch  Salt. 

Boil  the  water  and  butter  in  a  pan;  sift  the  flour  on 
to  paper  and  add  to  boiling  liquid,  beat  well  till  smooth, 
and  cook  very  well.  Allow  to  cool  slightly.  Add  the 
beaten  eggs  gradually.  Beat  well,  then  add  some  vanilla 
essence;  use  as  required. 

NOUILLE    PASTRY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  J  teaspoonful  Salt. 

1  oz.  Butter.  About  3  Eggs. 

Rub  the  fat  into  flour,  add  salt,  mix  with  the  eggs. 
Roll  out  very  thinly,  cut  into  strips  about  two  inches 
broad,  and  cut  these  again  into  shreds  of  desired  thickness. 
Let  nouilles  dry  on  a  pastry  tray.  They  may  be  cut 
into  various  shapes.  Nouilles  are  often  used  as  a  garnish 
for  soups.  Boil  in  salted  water  for  about  15  minutes, 
and  add  them  to  the  soup.  They  may  also  be  used  for 
any  similar  purpose  that  macaroni  is  used  for. 


EOUSEBOLD  COOKEBY  —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        305 

Bottling,  Pickling  and 
Preserving. 


TABLE  FOR  BOTTLING  FRUITS 
AND  VEGETABLES. 


Fruit. 

Strength  of 

Syrup  in  lbs. 

Sugar  per 

1  Gallon 

Water. 

Temperature. 

'Eetainvng 
Time. 

Raspberries 

6 

In  14  hrs.  raise  to  165°F. 

10  miTiutes. 

Currants 

6 

„  14           „           180°r. 

15  minutes. 

Cherries 

4  —  6 

„.14           „           180°F. 

30  minutes. 

Plums 

4—6 

„  14           „           165°F. 

10-20  mins. 

Damsons 

4  —  5 

„  14           „           165°F. 

10  minutes. 

Peaches 

4  —  5 

„  14            „            180°F. 

20  minutes. 

Gooseberries 

4 

„  14            „            165°F. 

10  minutes. 

Greengages 

4 

„  14           „           165°F. 

15  minutes. 

Brambles 

4 

„  14           „           leo-F. 

15  minutes. 

Apricots 

4 

„  u        „        les-F. 

■10  minutes. 

Pears 

4 

„  14           „           180°F. 

20  minutes. 

Apples- 

4 

„  14           „           165°F. 

10  minutes. 

Rhubarb 

4 

„  14           „           165°F. 

10  minutes. 

Tomatoes 

— 

„  1          „          igcF. 

30  minutes. 

Vegetables. 

Brine. 

.  Temperature. 

Betavm/ng 
Time. 

All  Kinds 

1  gallon 

Water. 

24  ozs.  Salt. 

5  ozs.  Lemon 

Juice. 

212°F.  as  quickly  as 
possible. 

14  hours. 

306        HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  BOTTLING,  Etc. 

RULES   TO   ACCOMPLISH    SUCCESSFULLY. 

1.  Fruit  or  vegetables  must*  be  perfectly  sound  and  of 
good  quality. 

2.  Both  should  be  freshly  gathered;  fruit  must  be  free 
from  bruises  and  not  over-ripe. 

3.  Have  fruit  of  uniform,  size  and  ripeness. 

4.  Handle  little  anf  lightly  and  prepare  in  the  usual 
way,  according  to  kind. 

5.  Bottles  must  be  scrupulously  clean. 

6.  Bottles  and  lids  must  be  perfect — not  chipped  nor 
cracked  in  any  way. 

7.  Rubbers  should  be  new — ^good  soft  rubber  rings  must 
always  be  used. 

8.  The  "  False  Bottom  "  must  be  put  in  the  pan  before 
the  bottles  are  put  in — to  prevent  cracking. 

9.  The  bottles  must  not  touch  one  another. 

10.  When  using  screw-band  bottles,  the  screw  cap  must 
be  given  a  i  turn  back  before  the  bottles  are  placed  in 
sterilizer. 

11.  Only  fruit  6r  vegetables  requiring  the  same  degree 
of  heat  can  be  sterilized  at  one  time — and  correct  times  and 
temperatures  must  be  strictly  kept. 

12.  The  bottles  should  be  removed  one  at  a  time  from 
the  sterilizer,  and  screwed  down  tightly  at  once. 

13.  They  must  be  cooled  slowly,  and  left  undisturbed 
and  free  from  draughts  until  quite  cold. 

14.  When  tested,  store  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOEEBY —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        307 

First  Method. 

SYRUP    PLUS    FRUIT. 
Recipe  for  Syrup. 

INGREDIEaraS. 

i  Ib.-i  lb.  Oane  Sugar.  1  pint  Water. 

Dissolve  slowly.  Boil  5  minutes,  leave  till  nearly  cold. 
Filter  till  clear  through  muslin  and  use  as  required. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Plums.  1  pint  Syrup. 

Wipe  the  plums  carefully,  pack  very  tightly,  without 
bruising,  and  well  fill  the  bottles.  Fill  to  overflowing  with 
syrup  and  screw  on  lids.  Place  in  the  sterilizer  having 
'the  bottles  entirely  covered  with  water.  If  the  bottles 
are  not  submerged,  the  sterilizer  must  have  a  very  tight- 
fitting  lid.  Sterilize  for  the  time  and  at  the  temperature 
given  in  the  table.  Remove  and  tighten  the  lids.  When 
cold,  test,  and  store  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark,  place. 

Second  Method. 

WATER   AND    OIL    PLUS    FRUIT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Grooseberries.  Was  or  Mutton  Fat. 

Boiling  Water  to  cover. 

Prepare  fruit  and  heat  slightly,  place  in  jars,  pour 
boiling  water  over.      Seal  with  fat.      Fix  on  lid.      Store. 

Third  Method. 

SUGAR  AND    FRUIT. 

PROPORTIONS. 
1  lb.  Sugar.  1  lb.  Fruit. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Raspberries.  Sugar. 

Prepare  the  raspberries.  Place  a  layer  of  sugar  first 
in  the  jar,  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on  till  full, 
finishing  up  with  a  layer  of  sugar,  place  on  the  lid,      Place 


308        BeuSBHOLD  COOE^EBY  ^  BOTTLING,  Etc. 

in  a  gentle  heat  either  in  a  moderately  hqt  oven  or  in  a 
pan  of  water  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved.      Then  store. 

The  fruit  may  be  stored  without  any  heating,  as  the 
sugar  acts  as  a  germicide. 

N.B. — Any  of  the  above  methods  may  be  used  for  any 
kind  of  fruit. 

BOTTLING  VEGETABLES. 

BOTTLED  PEAS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

/  2   OZS.   Salt. 

Green  Peas.  Lemon  Brine,  j  *  °^^;  f^^^ax^  j^^^ 

1 1  gallon  Water. 

Wash  pods  very  thoroughly  in  cold  water  or  a  very  weak 
solution  of  Potassium  Permanganate.  Shell  the 
peas  and  blanch  in  boiling  water  from  J-2 
minutes,      depending      on      size      of      peas.  Dip    in 

cold  water  for  1  minute.  Pack  loosely  into  jars  to 
within  i  inch  from  top  and  completely  cover  with  brine. 
Place  in  sterilizer  and  bring  to  212°  F.  as  quickly  as 
possifile.  Retain  this  temperature  for  IJ  hours.  If 
necessary,  fill  up  with  boiling  brine  and  re-sterilize  for 
20  minutes.      Cool,  test  and  store. 

N.B. — It  is  understood  that  the  bottles  must  either  be 
completely  submerged  or  that  the  sterilizer  has  a  tight- 
fitting  lid. 

French  Beans.; — Method  as  fo?  Peas.  Brine  prepared 
minus  sugar. 

BOTTLED   TOMATOES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Tomatoes.  1  teaspoonful  Sugar. 

1  t«asi>oonful  Salt. 

Wash  the  tomatoes.  Blanch  in  boiling  water  from 
J-1  minute,  cold  dip  and  peel  them.      Cut  up  if  necessary 


SOUSEHOLD  COOKEET  — BOTTLING,  Etc.        309 

and   pack  tightly  into   jars.       Sprinkle  salt  and   sugar 
mixture  between  each  layer.      Sterilize  according  to  table. 

BOTTLED    SALMON. 

Cook  in  usual  way  in  boiling  water  to  which  has  been 
added  salt,  peppercorns,  and  if  liked  piece  of  onion. 

When  cooked  take  off  skins,  press  tightly  into  jars. 
Strain  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked  and  pour  it  over 
the  salmon.       Sterilize  for  30  minutes  at  212°   F. 

PICKLED    SPICED    BEEF    (WET). 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  pint  Treacle.  i  oz.  Allspice. 

1  pint  Strong  Old  AJe.  1  oi.  Saltpetre. 

J  oz.  Coriander  Seeds.  J  lb.  Salt. 

i  oz.  Whole  Black  Pepper.  1  chopped  Onion. 

Boil  all  together,  pour  boiling  over  meat.  Turn  every 
day,  and  leave  in  pickle  as  desired. 

PICKLED    SPICED    BEEF    (DRY). 

Take  a  piece  of  thin  flank  of  beef.  Remove  skin  and 
bone.       Then  take  : — 

2i  ozs.  Common  Salt.  1  teaspoonful  Black  Peppei:. 

3  ozs.  Bay  Salt.  1  teaspoonful  Ground  Ginger. 

3  ozs.  Saltpetre.  6  Grated  Shallots. 

IJ  lbs.  Moist  Sugar.  i  Nutmeg  (grated). 

1  saltspoonful  Ground  Cloves.  12  Bay  Leaves. 

1  teaspoonful  Ground  Mace.  1  dessert-spoonful  Thyme. 

Pound  all  except  meat  till  very  fine,  then  rub  through 
hair  sieve,  mix  with  a  little  carmine  to  colour.  Rub 
meat  with  it  for  10  minutes  each  day  for  8  days  to  10 
days;  let  lie  in  pickle,  turning  it  each  day.  When  ready 
to  cook,  rinse  it  and  roll  up  in  form  of  galantine,  bind 
lightly  round  with  tape  and  roll  in  buttered  muslin  and 
braise.  Press  it  well  in  the  liquor  till  cold.  Glaze  and 
decorate  with  aspic  jelly,  butter  or  Italian  paste. 


310        HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  BOTTLING,  mc. 

PICKLE    FOR  TONGUE    (WET). 

INGREDIENTS. 

I  lb.  Salt.  J  lb.  Coarse  Brown  Sugar. 

J  oz.  Saltpetre. 

Put  all  in  jug  and  pour  over  1  pint  boiling  water,  stir 
well.  It  is  ready  when  cold.  The  meat  must  first  be 
rubbed  with  a  little  salt. 


PICKLE    FOR  TONGUE    (DRY). 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  OZ.  Saltpetre.  4  ozs.  Sugar. 

6  ozs.  Salt. 

Rub  well  with  saltpetre,  then  salt  and  leave,  rubbing 
every  day  and  turning  every  day  for  nine  days.  At 
half-time  rub  with  sugar. 

CURING   OF   HAMS   AND  FLITCHES. 

Rub  with  common  salt  for  10  minutes  every  day  for  a 
week,  let  lie  so  that  brine  will  run  off.  Then  rub  off 
salt  and  put  in.  trough  or  tub  and  rub  into  each  ham  or 
flitch  1  lb.  of  saltpetre  that  has  been  pounded,  warmed 
and  dissolved.  The  day  after  rub  in  3  or  4  lbs.  of  common 
salt.  Let  lie  a  week,  during  this  time  rub  daily.  Do 
this  for  one  month,  then  wipe  over  with  clean  dry  cloth 
and  hang  in  dry  place  till  required,  or  smoke.  Best  not 
to  use  for  six  months  at  least. 

PICKLED   VEGETABLES. 

The  general  method  is  to  wash  the  vegetables  thoroughly 
and  then  soak  them  in  brine  (1  lb.  salt :  1  gallon  water) 
for  48  hours.  Re-wash  them  well  and  pack  into  jars. 
Then  completely  cover  with  spiced  vinegar  (which  keeps 
better  and  has  a  fuller  flavour  than  ordinary  vinegar) 
and  seal  securely  with  mutton  fat  or  wax. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        311 

Cold  vinegar  is  used  for  vegetables  requiring  a  crisp 
finish,  e.g.,  onions,  cabbage,  etc.  Hot  vinegar  is  preferable 
for  the  softer  type,  e.g.,  walnuts. 


SPICED    VINEGAR. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  quart  Vinegar  (Malt  or  J  oz.  whole  Allspice. 

White  or  mixture  of  both).     }  oz.  Cloves  (stalks  only), 
i  oz.  Cinnamon  Stick.  J  oz.  whole  Mace. 

Add  the  spices  (tied  in  muslin)  to  the  vinegar.  Put  all 
into  a  pan  with  a  tight-fitting  lid  and  bring  to  the  boil. 
Remove  from  heat,  and  infuse  for  2  hours.  Then  lift 
out  the  spice  bag  and  use  the  vinegar  as  required. 


PICKLED    BEETROOT. 

Slice  cold  cooked  beetroot  into  rounds  i  inch  thick. 
Pack  into  bottles,  cover  with  cold  spiced  vinegar.  Seal 
securely  and  do  not  use  for  at  least  one  week. 

PICKLED    ONIONS. 

Select  small  white  round  onions.  Place  with  their  skins 
on  in  brine  (1  lb.  salt :  1  gallon  water).  Leave  for  12 
hours.  Peel  and  place  in  a  fresh  brine  of  the  same 
strength  for  24-36  hours.  Remove  from  brine.  Wash 
thoroughly  in  cold  water  and  drain  well.  Pack  into  jars, 
cover  with  cold  spiced  vinegar.  Seal  and  store  for  3-i 
months  before  using. 

PICKLED    MUSHROOMS. 

Rub  button  mushrooms  with  flannel  and  salt  to  clean 
them,  well  wash  and  dry,  then  put  them  in  a  stewpan 
and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  add  a  blade  or  two  of  mace 


312        SOVSEEOLD  COOKEBY  — BOTTLING,  Etc. 

and  a  little  pepper.  Cook  them  at  a  slow  heat  till 
liquor  comes,  and  shake  them  well  and  continue  cooking 
till  it  is  all  absorhed.  Just  cover  with  vinegar,  give  one 
boil  up,  then  put  in  glass  jars;  cover  when  cold. 


PICKLED   WALNUTS. 

Gather  the  walnuts  while  a  pin  can  pierce  them  easily. 
Put  them  in  brine  (1  lb.  Salt :  1  gallon  Water)  let 
them  soak  for  six  days,  then  change  the  brine  and 
let  them  soak  fourteen  days  longer.  Then  put  in 
brine  a  third  time  and  keep  till  wanted,  then  drain  them. 
Spread  them  on  dishes,  expose  to  the  air  till  they  become 
black;  theyjivill  do  so  in  about  a  day.  For  every  quart 
of  vinegar  take  2  ozs.  peppercorns,  3  blades  mace,  2  ozs. 
of  bruised  ginger  and  1  scraped  horse-radish,  3  ozs. 
mustard  seed,  2.  cloves  of  garlic,  boil  them  all  up  together 
for  five  minutes.  Put  walnuts  in  jars,  pour  vinegar  over 
them.  When  cold,  cover  closely,  put  away  for  a  month 
or  longer,  laying  the  jars  on  their  sides. 


PICKLED   RED   CABBAGE. 

Use  cabbage  freshly-gathered  after  frost,  remove  dry, 
tough,  outside  leaves.  Divide  into  five  or  six  pieces  and 
shred  finely,  then  place  in  layers  on  flat  di^es  or  trays 
and  sprinkle  with  salt,  allowing  6  ozs.  to  each  1  lb.  of 
cabbage.  Leave  for  two  days,  turning  frequently,  then 
drain  on  hair  sieves.  Take  some  clean  jars,  put  in  layer 
of  cabbage,  about  three  inches,  sprinkle  with  black  and 
white  peppercorns,  and  some  crushed  root  ginger,  continue 
tiQ  full.  Bring  some  vinegar  to  the  boil,  let  cool.  Cover 
cabbage  entirely  with  vinegar,  and,  if  necessary,  add  a 
little  carmine  to  improve  colour.  Cover  with  bladder  and 
store  in  a  dry,  cool  place.      White  cabbage  excellent  also. 


BOUSEEOLD  COOKEST  — BOTTLING,  Etc.        313 

SWEET   PICKLES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  eups  Vinegar.  Water  Melon  Binds,  "j 

4  eups  Brown  Sugar.  Apples.  I  7  lbs. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Whole  Eipe  Cucumber  j  Fruit. 

Cloves.  (seeded).  J 

Allspice.  Cinnamon. 

Prepare  fruit,  and  cook  in  the  spiced  sweetened  vinegar 
until  tender.  Drain  the  liquid  from  the  fruit,  and  pack 
fruit  neatly  into  jars.  Boil  the  vinegar  syrup  until  slightly 
thick  and' fill  up  each  jar  with  enough  to  cover  the  fruit. 
Seal  at  once  with  mutton  fat.  Cover  when  cold  and 
store  in  a  cool  dry  place  for  some  months  before  using. 


CHUTNEY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Bruised  Ginger.  J  lb.  Seedless  Eaisins. 

2J  ozs.  Garlic.  1  lb.  Sultanas. 

1  oz.  Mustard  Seeds.  IJ  quarts  Malt  Vinegar. 

1  oz.  Pounded  Chillies.  2  dozen  Apples  or  more. 

2  lbs.  Sugar.  6  sliced  Figs. 

J  lb.  Salt.  1  oz,  Citron  (cut  fine). 

1  lb.  Onions.  Id.  Horse  Badish. 

Chop  garlic  and  onions  and  raisins  like  mince.  Chop 
all  together.  Boil  slowly  for  40  minutes.  Stir 
occasionally.      Bottle  and  cork  well. 


TOMATO   CHUTNEY    (1). 

t 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  peck  Green  Tomatoes.  1  lb.  Whole  Mustard. 

6  large  Onions.  2  table-spoonfuls  Cinnamon. 

1  cup  Salt.  2  table-spoonfuls  AUspiee. 
8  cups  Water.  2  table-spoonfuls  Cloves. 
4  cups  Vinegar.  2  table-spoonfuls  Ginger. 

2  lbs.  Brown  Sugar.  1  teaspoonful  Cayenne. 

Slice  onions  and  tomatoes.       Sprinkle  with  salt,  stand 
overnight.       Drain;   put   in  porcelain  kettle  with  water 


314        HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY —  BOTTLING,  Etc. 

and  vinegar.  Boil  15  minutes;  drain.  Cover  with 
vinegar,  add  other  ingredients,  boil  ISr  minutes  more  (if 
liked,  put  dark  spices  in  bag). 

TOMATO   CHUTNEY    (2). 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Tomatoes  (skinned).  4  ozs.  Mustard  Seed  (tied  in 

1  lb.  Granulated  Sugar.  muslin). 

1  lb.  Raisins.  4  Chillies  (tied  in  muslin 

1  lb.  Sultanas.  if  liked). 

i  lb.  Salt.  6  Sdur  Apples. 

2  ozs.  Garlic.  2  quarts  White  Vinegar. 
2  ozs.  Shallots. 

Chop  all  ingredients  finely,  place  all  in  a  pan  and  cook 
till  pulpy.       Store  in  jars  and  cover. 

JEU   CHUTNEY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Green  Apples.  2  ozs.  Garlic  or  Onion. 

1  lb.  Dates.  4  Chillies. 

i  lb.  moist  Sugar.  2  ozs.  Salt. 

}  lb.  Preserved  Ginger.  1  quart  Vinegar. 

Chop  apple  roughly  and  cook  in  vinegar  till  soft.  Add 
other  ingredients  and  boil  till  soft  and  pulpy.  Store  in 
jars  and  cover. 

JAMS  AND  JELLIES. 

RULES. 

1.  Preserve  the  fruit  as  soon  as  possible  after  gathering. 

2.  Fruit  must  be  dry  and  in  good  condition. 

3.  Use  pure  cane  sugar  as  it  keeps  better. 

4.  Use  a  strong  pan — ^to  prevent  burning — and  have  it 
large  enough  to  allow  the  jam  boil  up  ^well.  When 
necessary  ^tir  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

5.  Allow  the  fruit  to  simmer  quietly  before  the  sugar 
is  added.      Long  boiling  with  sugar  spoils  the  colour.^ 


EOVSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        315 

6.  To  get  a  well  set  jam  or  jelly,  pectin,  acid  and 
sugar  must  be  present  in  correct  proportions. 

7.  Do  not  add  the  sugar  until  the  fruit  is  well  cooked 
and  broken  down.  After  adding  the  sugar,  dissolve  com- 
pletely, then  boil  the  jam  very  rapidly  until  the  setting 
point  is  reached. 

8.  To  test  for  "  setting  point "  apply  the  Flake  Test  or 
put  a  little  on  a  plate — on  cooling,  if  a  skin  forms,  the 
jam  is  ready.      If  not,  continue  boiling  and  re-test. 

9.  Have  the  jars  thoroughly  clean,  dry  and  warm. 

10.  Allow  jam  to  cool  slightly  and  stir  up  gently  before 
filling  into  jars.  This  prevents  fruit  rising  to  the  top 
of  the  jars. 

11.  Do  not  allow  jelly  to  cool  before  dishing.  Skim 
it  carefully  and  pour  into  jars  as  quickly  as  possible. 

12.  Immediately  the  jars  are  filled,  place  a  wax  circle 
on  top  of  each. 

13.  When  quite  cool,  tie  down  with  parchment  square 
or  jam  pot  cover. 

14.  Store  in  a  cool,  dark  cupboard. 

TO   TEST   FOR   PECTIN. 

The  proportion  of  sugar  to  add  to  fruit  juice  depends 
on  the  quantity  of  pectin  present.  To  make  the  test 
for  pectin  take  1  teaspoonfnl  cold  fruit  extract  and  mix 
it  up  with  3  teaspoonfuls  methylated  spirits.  The  pectin 
in  the  juice  is  thrown  out  of  solution  by  the  spirit  and 
forms  a  jelly-like  clot.  The  stiff er  the  clot,  the  greater 
is  the  proportion  of  sugar  allowed. 

If  the  clot  does  not  hold  together  in  one  lump — the 
extract  requires  concentration  by  further  rapid  boiling,  and 
the  test,  for  pectin  remade. 


316        KOUSEBOLD  C'OOKEBT  —  BOTTLING,  Etc. 

If  no  clot  forms  there  is  insufBeient  pectin  present  and 
the  deficiency  must  be  made  up  by  the  addition  of  apple 
pectin  or  some  fruit  juice  known  to  be  rich  in  pectin. 


THICK   MARMALADE. 

Wash  the  bitter  oranges.  Cut  into  four,  and  then  cut 
in  very  thin  slices.  Remove  the  pips-  and  soak  in  some 
of  the  measured  water.  To  each  pound  of  orange  add 
3  pints  water.  Let  it  stand  all  night.  Place  in  pan 
with  liquid  strained  from  pips,  then  boil  all  till  the  rind 
is  quite  tender,  probably  1  hour.  Lay  away  again  for 
24  hours.  Next  measure  the  pulp,  and  allow  IJ  lbs. 
sugar  to  each  1  pint  of  pulp.  Boil  till  some  jellies  on 
a  plate.  If  liked,  a  few  lemons  can  be  added.  Half -stone 
of  oranges  makes  52  lbs.  marmalade.  Grape  fruit  may 
be  made  same  as  above. 


CLEAR   MARMALADE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8  lbs.  Bitter  Oranges.  3  Lemons. 

9  lbs.  Preserving  Sugar.  Cold  Water. 

Wipe  and  pare  the  fruit  very  thinly  in  ribbons;  cut 
the  ribbons  across  into  very  thin  chips  with  a  pair  of 
scissors.  Remove  all  the  white  pith  from  the  fruit ;  divide 
the  fruit  into  pieces,  removing  the  pips.  Soak  them  in 
water  to  cover  overnight,  strain  and  add  before  finally 
finishing.  Put  fruit  in  jelly-pan  and  cover  with  cold 
water;  add  the  chips  tied  in  muslin;  boil  for  two  hours, 
skimming  carefully  and  stirring  frequently.  Take  out 
chips,  pour  the  pulp  and  liquid  through  a  sieve,  and  allow 
to  drip  all  night;  Weigh  the  liquid  and  chips,  put  into 
a  jelly-pan  with  rather  more  than  their  weight  of  sugar 
(the  weight  of  the  chips  and  juice  should  be  about  the 
original  weight  of  the  fruit).       Boil  for  ten  minutes,  or 


BOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        317 

till  ■  a  little  sets,  skimming  if  necessary.       Put  into  jars 
and  cover  with  gummed  paper. 

GRAPE   FRUIT  MARMALADE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Grape  Fruit.  3  pints  Water. 

1  Lemon.  Juice  of  1  Orange. 

Wash  the  grape  fruit  and  the  lemons.  Slice  thinly. 
Pare  off  yellow  grape  fruit  rind.  Cut  skin  in  four  pieces 
to  do  this.  Remove  pith  and  shred  rind.  Put  white 
pith  and  slices  of  lemon  into  muslin.  Cut  up  grape  fruit 
and  remove  pips.  Put  all  in  a  basin,  add  water  and 
orange  juice.  Leave  overnight.  Next  day,  simmer  until 
thick  and  pulpy.  Take  a  pectin  test,  add  sugar  and  boil 
as  rapidly  as  possible  until  it  sets. 

If  good  clot  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  pint  pulp. 

If  poor  clot  allow  i  lb.  sugar  to  1  pint  pulp. 

BLACK   CURRANT  JAM. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

3  lbs.  Currants  (topped  3  pints  Water, 

and  tailed).  6  lbs.  Cane  Sugar. 

Wash  fruit  well.  Put  in  pan  with  water  and  bring 
to  the  boU.  Simmer  till  skins  are  soft  (10  minutes). 
Add  sugar,  stir  till  dissolved.  Boil  quickly  to  setting 
point  ("about  20  minutes).  Skim.  Allow  to  cool  slightly. 
Pour  into  jars. 

DRIED  APRICOT  JAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Dried  Apricata.  2  pints  Water. 

3  lbs.  Sugar. 

Wash,  cut  up  and  soak  apricots  for  two  days.  Simmer 
gently  until  the  skins  are  tender.  Stir  to  prevent  burnipg. 
Add  sugar,   stir  till   dissolved.       Then  boil   quickly  till 


318        HOUSEHOLD  COOKEET  —  BOTTLING,  Etc. 

setting  point  is  reached.  Allow  to  cool  slightly.  Stir, 
and  pour  into  prepared  jars.  Cover  with  waxed  tissue. 
When  quite  cold,  tie  down,  labef  and  store. 


PLUM   OR  DAMSON   JAM. 

INGREDIKNTS. 

4  lbs.  Plums  or  Damsons.  5  lbs.  Sugar. 

If  pints  Water. 

Wash  the  fruit.  Weigh  it  and  put  in  the  pan  with  the 
water.  Simmer  gently  until  it  is  well  broken  down.  Stir 
to  prevent  burning.  Add  the  sugar.  Stir  till  dissolved. 
Then  boil  quickly  till  setting  point  is  reached.  Allow 
to  eool  slightly.  Stir  gently  and  pour  into  prepared  jars. 
Cover  with  waxed  tissue.  When  quite  cold,  tie  down, 
label  and  store. 


GOOSEBERRY   JAM. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

4  lbs.  Gooseberries.  5  lbs.  Sugar. 

11  pints  Water. 

Make  as  for  Plum  or  Damson  Jam. 


STRAWBERRY   JAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

7  lbs.  Plugged  Strawberries.      SJ  lbs.  Sugar. 
IJ  pints  Gooseberry  Juice. 

Put  strawberries  and  sugar  into  pan  and  simmer  until 
all  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  'Add  fruit  juice  and  boil 
quickly  until  the  jam  "flakes"  when  tested  or  until  a 
little  sets  on  a  plate.  Skim,  allow  to  cool  slightly,  then 
stir  gently  and  fill  into  jars. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        319 
RASPBERRY   JAM    OR    LOGANBERRY    JAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  lbs.  Fruit.  6i  lbs.  Sugar. 

Prepare  fruit  and  place  in  preserving  pan.  Simmer 
gently  until  well  broken  down.  Frequent  stirring  is 
necessary  to  prevent  burning.  Add  sugar,  stir  till 
dissolved  and  boil  till  setting  point  is  reached.  Skim 
carefuUy.  Allow  to  cool  slightly.  Stir  gently  and  fill 
into  jars. 

RHUBARB   JAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

7  lbs.  Rhubarb.  3  to  4  Lemons. 

Wipe  the  rhubarb,  and  cut  into  14  inch  lengths.  Cut 
the  lemon  in  very  thin  slices.  Weigh  the  fruit,  and 
place  over  it  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar;  let  it  stand 
24  hours.       Then  boil  25  to  30  minutes. 

N.B. — 1  lb.  Figs,  wiped  and  cut  up  small,  can  be 
substituted  for  the  lemons. 


RHUBARB   AND   GINGER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

7  lbs.  Ehubarb.  2  lbs.  Crystallized  Ginger. 

7  lbs.  Sugar. 

Wash  and  cut  up  rhubarb,  and  place  in  an  earthenware 
crock  with  sugar  in  layers  for  36  hours.  Pour  off  juice 
into  a  preserving  pan,  add  ginger,  boil  15  minutes.  Then 
add  rhubarb  and  boil  15  minutes  longer.  Pot,  cover, 
and  label. 

VEGETABLE    MARROW   JAM    (PULPED). 

Take  some  nice  fresh  young  vegetable  marrows,  peel 
and  remove  the  seeds,  and  cut  them  into  quarters,  then 
put   into  a  stewpan   with   sufiftcient  cold  water  to   cover, 


320 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  BOTTLING,  Etc. 


and  just  bring  to  the  boil;  then  strain  and  rinse  them 
in  cold  water,  and  put  on  again  in  boiling  water  and 
allow  to  cook  for  15  minutes.  Strain  and  press  till  dry, 
and  press  them  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Take  some  sour 
apples,  peel,  slice,  and  boil  them,  and  allow  for  each  pound 
of  apples  the  strained  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  boil  to  a  pulp. 

Then  weigh  the  marrow  pulp,  and  allow  a  i  lb.  of 
apples  to  each  pound,  1  lb.  loaf  sugar,  and  the  finely- 
chopped  peel  of  1  lemon  and  4  cloves,  (tied  in  muslin  and 
taken  out  when  jam  is  coolsed).  Put  the  jam  into  a 
clean  stewpan  and  boil  half  an  hour,  then  add  a  few  drops 
carmine  to  unprove  the  colour.  Pour  into  jars  and  cover 
when  cold. 


VEGETABLE   MARROW  JAM    (WHOLE). 

INGREDIENTS. 


4  lbs.  Marrow. 
4  lbs.  Sugar. 


2  Lemons  (rind  and  juice). 
1  oz.  Bruised  Ginger. 


Peel  the  marrow  and  cut  into  pieces  3  inches  long 
"  and  1  inch  thick,  strew  some  of  the  sugar  over  it  and 
let  it  remain  12  hours.  Then  put  it  in  a  pan  with 
remainder  of  sugar  and  ginger,  and  boil  till  clear,  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Add  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  lemon  just  at  end.      Pot  and  label. 


BLACK  CURRANT  JELLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 


6  lbs.  Ripe  Fruit. 
Si  pints  Water. 


Sugar. 


Wash  fruit,  but  do  ^ot  remove  stalks.  Put  into  pre-, 
serving  pan.,  add  water  and  simmer  till  quite  tender.  Mash 
well.       Strain  through  a  scalded  jelly  bag  and  allow  to 


HOUSEHOLD  COOEEBT —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        321 

drip  overnight.  Make  a  thin  mash  with-  the  pulp  from 
the  bag,  simmer  this  again  for  about  li  hours  and  strain. 
Mix  first  and  second  extracts  together.  Test  for  pectin 
clot  and  if  necessary  concentrate  the  extracts  untU,  on 
further  testing,  a  good  clot  is  formed.  Measure  extract 
and  to  each  1  pint  extract  allow  1  lb.  sugar.  Heat  juice, 
dissolve  sugar  in  it,  and  boil  rapidly  until  a  "  set "  is 
obtained  when  tested.  Skim  carefully,  and  quickly  fill 
into  warm,  dry,  jars. 

N.B. — Green  Gooseberry,  Raspberry,  Apple  Jelly,  etc., 
are  made  in  a  similar  way. 


RED   CURRANT  JELLY    (A). 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  lbs.  Fruit.  Sugar. 

1  pint  Water. 

Method  as  for  black  currant  jelly.      Allow  J  lb.  sugar 
to  each     pint  juice. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY    (B). 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  lbs.  Fruit  (mixture  of  Bed  Sugar, 

and  White  Cnrrants  may 
be  used). 

Wash  fruit.  Place  in  preservjpg  pan  and  heat  gently 
until  fruit  is  tender — about  45  minutes.  Mash  fruit  and 
strain  overnight  through  a  scalded  jelly  bag.  To  each 
1  pint  juice  allow  li  lbs.  sugar.  Heat  juice,  add  sugar, 
dissolve  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Boil  1  minute.  Skim 
very  quickly  and  pour  into  jars  at  once. 

Method  B. — Makes  a  delicious  jelly — ^but  is  extragavant 
as  only  slightly  over  3  lbs.  jelly  is  obtained. 


322        HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  BOTTLING,  Etc. 

RED    CURRANT   JELLY    (C)    (UNCOOKED). 

To  every  3  lbs.  currants  allow  1  lb.  raspberries.  Squeeze 
the  fruit  through  a  cloth,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  allow 
li  lbs.  cane  sugar.  Stir  till  the  sugar  is  quite  dissolved, 
and  put  into  small  jars  at  once.      Cover  and  label. 

APPLE   AND   DAMSON   JELLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  lbs.  Apples.  Sugar. 

3  lbs.  Damsons.  Water. 

Wipe  apples  and  cut  them  up.  Wipe  the  damsons. 
Place  all  in  the  pan  and  well  cover  with  water.  Simmer 
slowly  till  tender.  Mash  well  and  strain  overnight  through 
a  scalded  jelly  bag.  Reheat  the  pulp,  as  for  red  currant 
jelly  above,  by  simmering  gently  for  1  hour.  Strain 
as  before  and  mix  the  extracts.  Test  for  pectin  clot. 
Concentrate,  if  necessary,  by  reboiling;  and  when  a  good 
clot  has  been  obtained,  allow  1  lb.  sugar  per  1  lb.  juice. 
Dissolve  sugar  in  juice,  then  boil  rapidly  until  the  jelly 
is  ready.       Skim  quickly,  and  pour  into  warm  dry  jars. 


PASTES  AND  SYRUPS. 
APPLE  PASTE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

7  lbs.  Apples  (peeled  2  oza.  Whole  Ginger. 

and  cored).  3  Liemons. 

7  lbs.  Sugar.  1  pint  cold  Water. 

Stew  the  apples  with  the  water  to  a  pulp.       Then  add 

the  sugar,  the  ginger  (tied  in  muslin),-  and  the  juice  and 

grated  rind  of  3  lemons.      Boil  for  half  an  hour,  stirring 

»  all  the  time.      Remove  the  ginger,  put  into  jars,  and  cover 

with  gummed  paper. 


EOUSEEOLD  COOKEST  —  BOTTLING,  Etc.        323 

DAMSON  CHEESE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

To  each  5  lbs.  Damsons  allow  1  giU  Water. 
To  every  lb.  Damsons  allow  1  lb.  Sugar. 

Put  the  damsons  and  water  into  a  preserving  pan,  stir 
gently  tUl  boiling.  Simmer,  and  when  the  damsons  are 
tender  rub  through  a  coarse  wire  sieve.  To  each  lb.  of 
fruit  add  1  lb.  sugar.  Place  over  a  gentle  heat,  stir 
until  boiling  and  cook  for  about  1  hour.  Put  into 
,  small  jars. 

BANANA    PASTE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  Bananas.  1  oz.  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  Squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

3  Yolks. 

Rub  bananas  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  cook  all  in  a 
double  boiler  till  thick.      Pour  into  pots. 


GINGER   APPLES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Apples.  2  Iba.  Ixiaf  Sugar. 

2  ozs.  Whole  Ginger.  1  pint  Water. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  wa'ter  for  ten  minutes.  Skim  well, 
then  add  the  apples,  peeled  and  cut  in  quarters,  with  the 
ginger  bruised  and  tied  in  muslin.  Boil  till  the  apples 
are  transparent.     J'ut  into  jars  and  cover  like  jam. 

LEMON   CURD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  ozs.  Loaf  Sugar.  4  Yolks  of  Eggs. 

2  ozs.  Butter.  2  Lemons. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  jar,  rasp  lemon  rind  on  sugar, 
crush,  and  add  with  the  lemon  juice,  then  add  the  yolks, 
beaten  thoroughly.  Stir  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens,  then 
put  into  a  jar  and  use  as  required. 


324        EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBr  —  BOTTLING,  Etc. 

LEMON   SYRUP. 

INQBEDUSNTS. 

3  Lemons.  2  ozs.  Citric  Acid. 

2  lbs.  Loaf  Sugar.  1  pint  boiling  Water. 

Peel  the  lemons  very  thinly,  put  all  ingredients  into  a 
basin,  straining  in  the  juice  of  the  lemons;  stir  occasionally 
till  the  sugar  and  acid  are  dissolved;  bottle  and  cork 
tightly.  One  table-spoonful  added  to  a  glass  of  water 
will  make  a  very  nice  lemonade. 

GINGER   SYRUP. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4}  pints  Water.  3^  lbs.  Sugar  (loaf). 

3  drachms  Essence  of  Ginger.     J  oz.  Burnt  Sugar. 
3  drachms  Essence  of  i  oz.  Tartaric  Acid. 

Cayenne. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Take  off  fire  and  add  essences  and  burnt  sugar 
and  tartaric  acid ;  bottle.      Serve  hot  with  water  and  sugar. 

RASPBERRY   VINEGAR. 

Fill  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  with  rasps,  freshly  gathered; 
fill  up  with  vinegar,  cork,  and  let  them  stand  for  a  month, 
then  strain  them.  If  the  juice  is  very  thick,  add'  a  little 
cold  vinegar,  and  to  every  breakfast-cupful  of  juice  add 
i  lb.  sugar.  Boil  in  a  pan  half  an  hour.  Skim  and 
bottle  when  cold. 


SOUSEBOLD  COOKEBT  —  INVALID  COOKEBY.   325 

INVALID  COOKERY. 

BEEF   TEA    (SLOW   WAY). 

INGREDIENTS. 

§  lb.  Tea  or  Gravy  Beef,  J  pint  Water, 

or  Hough.  Pinch  Salt. 

Remove  all  fat  from  the  beef  and  wipe  carefully. 
Scrape.  Place  in  jar  with  the  water  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Allow  to  stand  for  half  an  hour,  pressing  the  beef 
against  the  sides  of  the  jar  with  the  spoon  frequently. 
Cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  place  jar  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  cook  gently 
from  3  to  4  hours.  Decant  the  liquid,  remove  every 
trace  of  fat,  season  lightly,  and  serve  with  fingers  of  toast. 

BEEF   TEA    (QUICK   WAY). 

INGREDIENTS. 

Use  exactly  the  same  Proportions. 

Place  directly  it  is  scraped  into  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
allow  to  stand  for  a  little,  then  gently  simmer  for  li 
hours.      Remove  all  fat  and  serve  as  in  the  recipe  above. 

N.B. — ^Beef  tea  may  be  made  still  more  quickly  by 
scraping  the  meat  and  placing  it  in  the  water.  Allow 
it  to  stand  as  long  as  time  permits,  pressing  it  frequently. 
Then,  very  slowly, .  just  heat  the  tea,  thoroughly  strain, 
season  lightly,  and  remove  the  fat. 

RAW   BEEF   TEA. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Steak.  i  pint  Water  which  has  been 

Pinch  Salt.  boiled  and  allowed  to  cool. 

Scrape  the  meat  very  finely.  Place  in  a  basin  with 
salt.     Add   water,   cover  it    over;   allow  to   stand   for   1 


326   HOUSEHOLD  COOKESY  —  INVALID  COOKERY. 

hour,    pressing    frequently.        Strain,    and    serve    in    a 
coloured  glass. 

BEEF   ESSENCE. 

INGEBDIENT3. 
Any  Juioy  Meat  or  Mixture  of  Meat. 

Scrape  down  meat  finely.  Place  in  a  stew  jar,  cover 
closely.  Place  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  steam 
slowly  several  hours  till  all  juices  are  extracted.  Decant, 
season  lightly. 

One  teaspoonful  =  a  dose. 

INVALID   MUTTON   BROTH. 

INGREDIENTS.  ' 

1  lb.  Lean  Mutton.  J  Turnip. 

2  pints  Cold  Water.  Seasoning. 

i  Carrot.  li  ozs.  of  Eice,  Sago,  or 

J  Onion.  Semolina. 

Trim  off  fat,  cut  meat  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a 
pan  with  cold  water  and  a  pinch  salt  (if  possible,  allow 
to  stand  for  a  little),  then  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point; 
skim  carefulljr,  and  allow  to  simmer  while  vegetables  are 
being  prepared.  Tie  vegetables  in  muslin,  place  in  broth, 
and  simmer  2  to  3  hours.  Remove  vegetables  and  strain. 
Eeboil  broth,  and  sprinkle  in  washed  rice,  sago,  or  semolina, 
and  cook  20  to  30  minutes.      Remove  all  fat  and  serve. 

Chicken  and  Veal  Broth  made  similarly. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  broth  may  be  served  after  removing 
the  vegetables,  and  without  adding  any  thickening. 

CHICKEN   JELLY. 

Clean  a  small  chicken,  disjoint  it,  and  cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces;  remove  the  fat,  break  or  pound  the 
bones,   and   put'  all   in    cold   water,  using  the   following 


EOVSEEOLD  VOOKESY  —  INVALID  COOKEST.   327 

proportions^!  pint  for  every  pound  of  chicken.  Heat 
the  water  very  slowly  at  first,  and  then  simmer  it  until 
the  meat  is  tender — it  will  require  3  or  4  hours.  Boil 
it  down  to  one-half  the  quantity;  strain  it  and  remove 
the  fat,  then  clear  it  with  white  of  an  egg,  and  season 
it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon.  Strain  it  through  a 
fine  napkin,  pour  it  into  small  cups,  and  cool  it.  Parsley, 
celery,  and  bay  leaves  give  a  good  flavour. 


RAW   BEEF    SANDWICHES. 

Prepare  beef  by  scraping,  season  lightly,  and  spread 
on  very  thin  white  bread;  form  into  sandwiches;  serve 
daintily. 

STEAMED   FILLETED    FISH. 

Sole,  Plaice,  Whiting,  etc. 

Wash  the  fish  quickly  and  wipe;  rub  with  salt  to 
remove  any  blackness.  Skin  and  fillet  the  fish,  cutting 
off  head  and  tail.  Fold  the  fillets  in  half,  place  on  a 
greased  pie-dish  or  plate,  season  with  a  little  salt  and 
lemon  juice,  and  place  over  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water. 
Cover  with  a  buttered  plate  or  greased  basin,  steam  for 
half  an  hour,  depending  on  kind  of  fish.  Serve  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  some  of  its  own  liquid  round,  garnish 
with  a  little  parsley. 

MINCED   CHOP    (STEAMED). 

Remove  any  fat  and  gristle  from  a  lean  chop.  Cut 
into  very  small  pieces.  Shape  together  again.  Steam 
in  a  jar,  cooking  about  li  hours  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Grilled  chop  is  also  suitable  for  invalids. 


328   HOUSEEOLD  COOKEE¥  —  INVALID  COOKEBT. 

LEMONADE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Fresh  Lemon.  i  pint  boiling  Water, 

li  to  2  ozs.  Sugar. 

Wash  the  lemon,,  and  peel  off  the  rind  thinly;  remove 
the  white  pith,  and  cut  the  lemon  thinly.  Place  with 
the  rind  and  sugar  in  a  jug.  Pour  over  boiling  water, 
cover  the  jug  with  a  saucer,  and  let  it  stand  till  cool; 
strain.  Orangeade  and  Rhubarb  Water  may  be  made 
in  a  similar  way. 

Imperial  Drink  may  be  made  by  adding  i  teaspoonful 
cream  of,  tartar  to  the  above  before  serving. 

APPLE   WATER. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  to  2  Apples  (red  ones  if        Sugar  to  Sweeten.  "" 

possible).  «  1  pint  Water. 

Squeeze  Lemon  Juice. 

Wipe  the  apples,  and  cut  into  thin  slices;  place  in  a 
jug,  pour  boiling  water  over.  Add  sugar,  let  it  stand 
till  cold,  then  strain.      Add  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

TOAST  WATER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  thin  slice  of  Toast  (crisp  and  well  toasted). 
J  pint  boiling  Water. 

Pour  the  water  over  the  toast;  allow  to  stand  till  cold, 
then  strain  it.      If  liked,  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 

BARLEY   WATER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  ozs.  Pearl  Barley.  1  small  table-spoonful  Sugar. 

1  quart  cold  Water.  Thin  rind  J  Lemon. 

Scald  the  barley.      Place  in  a  pan  of  water,  add  lemon 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —INVALID  COOKEBJ.   329 

rind,  bring  to  boiling  point,   simmer  two  hours;   strain, 
add  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

N.B. — The  barley  may  be  used  once  or  twice  again. 


BEEF   TEA   CUSTARD.  • 

INGBEDIENTS. 

i  pint  hot  Beef  Tea.  1  Egg. 

Idttle  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Beat  up  the  egg  slightly;  add  the  beef  tea  to  the  egg; 
season  lightly.  Butter  a  large  cup  or  very  small  bowl, 
strain  the  custard  in,  twist  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  over 
the  top  of  the  cup,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water — ^the  water  coming  half-way  up  the  cup.  Draw 
the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  allow  the  custard 
to  remain  there  till  firm.  Remove  at  once  from  water, 
which  will  be  about  20  minutes.  Do  not  on  any  account 
allow  the  water  to  boil  while  the  custard  is  steaming,  or 
it  will  be  full  of  holes.  When  the  custard  is  firm,  serve 
either  hot  or  cold  in  the  cup  or  basin  it  was  steamed  in. 


GRUEL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Oatmeal  (good  1  pint  Water, 

measure). 

Soak,  the  oatmeal  in  water  for  1  hour,  stir  occasionally. 
Pour  off  the  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  simmer  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  add  salt  and  sugar  if  liked.  A  little 
milk  may  be  added.      If  at  all  lumpy,  strain. 

Oatflour  may  be  used  for  the  gruel.  Take  two  small 
table-spoonfuls  and  blend  it  smoothly.  Heat  1  pint  water 
or  milk  and  pour  it  over.  Return  to  the  pan,  boil  and 
cook  10  minutes.  > 


330   SOUSEHOLD  COOKEEY  —  INVALID  COOKEBT. 

LINSEED   TEA. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Linseed.  Juice  of  1  small  Lemon. 

Sugar  to  Sweeten.  1  inch  Liquorice. 

IJ  pints  cold  Water. 

Place  the  seeds  in  a  jar.  Cover  and  stewi  gently  for 
about  IJ  hours.  Strain,  add  sugar  and  liquorice.  Re- 
place in  jar  till  melted.  When  tea  is  ready  it  should  be 
of  consistency  of  thin  cream. 


EGG   FLIP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  Egg  (yolk  and  white  A  little  Sugar, 

beaten  separately).  J  pint  Milk. 

Beat  the  yolk  with  the  sugar.  Heat  the  milk  and 
pour  over  the  yolk  and  sugar,  and  adtf  the  stiffly-beaten 
white.      Sometimes  a  teaspoonful  of  brandy  is  added. 


IRISH   MOSS   JELLJ. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  oz.  Irish.  Moss.  About  H  pints  Milk. 

Small  piece  of  Cinnamon  1  oz.  Sugar. 

Stick.  Lemon  Bind. 

If  the  Irish  moss  is  freshly  gathered,  wash  well  and 
remove  dark  pieces.  Soak  in  cold  water  all  night.  If 
bought,  wash  only,  do  not  soak.  Tie  in  muslin  wit£ 
flavouring.  Place  in  a  pan  with  milk  and  sugar,  and 
cook  gently  till  a  little  sets  when  dropped  on  a  plate. 
Squeeze  muslin'  well,  pour  into  wetted  mould,  and  when 
cold  turn  out.  For  invalid  drink,  use  double  the  quantity 
of  milk. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  INVALID  COOEEBY.   331 
SAGO   CREAM. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Sago.  Sugar  to  Sweeten. 

1  pint  Milk.  Flavouring,  it  liked. 

1  Yolk  of  Egg. 

Boil  the  milk,  sprinkle  in.  the  sago,  simmer  till  clear, 
about  15  minutes.  Strain,  sweeten,  and  pour  over  the 
beaten  egg.  Rice,  tapioca,  etc.,  may  be  used  similarly. 
If  liked,  the  yolk  of  egg  may  be  left  out. 


BREADBERRY. 

Take  half  slice  thinly-cut  bread,  and  toast  slowly  until 
a  golden-brown  colour.  Out  in  small  pieces  and  place 
,in  a  basin.  Pour  over  boiling  water  and' allow  to  stand 
from'  10  to  15  minutes.  Pour  of£  the  water  and  squeeze 
slightly.  Add  -sufficient  water  and  milk  to  make  the 
desired  consistency.  Heat  slowly  and  sweeten  slightly 
if  liked. 

INVALID   JELLY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  oz.  Gelatine.  6  ozs.  Loaf  Sugar  (if  Lemon 

i  pint  Water.  Juice). 

J  pint  Orange  or  Lemon  4  ozs.  Sugar  (if  Orange 

Juice.  Juice). 

2  Eggs. 

Rasp  the  sugar  on  the  riads;  place  sugar,  gelatine,  and 
water  in  lined  pan.  Stir  till  gelatine  dissolves,  then  add 
lemon  or  orange  juice,  bring  to  boiling  point.  Beat  up 
eggs,  and  when  gelatine  mixture  has  cooled  a  little,  pour 
on  to  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time.  Strain.  Allow  to 
cool.  Turn  into  wetted  tin  moulds.  When  quite  set, 
dip  in  warm  water  and  turn  out. 


332   EOUSJEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  INVALID  COOKESY. 

CyP  OF  ARROWROOT 
AND  ARROWROOT  PUDDING. 

INGHEDIBNTS. 

1  dessert-Bpoonful  Arrowroot.     1  small  teaspoonfiil  Sugar. 
i  pint  Milk.  1  Egg. 

Blend  the  arrowroot  with  a  little  of  the  eold  milk. 
BoU  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  pour  over.  If  iastant 
thickening  takes  place,  the  arrowroot  is  cooked;  if  not, 
return  to  the  pan  and  boil.  Add  sugar  and  serve;  or, 
when  cool,  add  1  egg,  separating  the  white  from  yolk. 
Beat  the  white  very  stiffly  and  fold  in.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  pie-dish,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  risen  and 
nicely  browned,  about  20  minutes. 

WINE   WHEY. 

INGEEDIBNTS. 

1  giU  of  Milk.  1  lump  of  Sugar. 

i  gill  of  Sherry. 

Put  the  milk  and  sugar  into  a  rinsed  saucepan  and 
bring  it  to  boiling  point,  then  pour  in  the  sherry.  When 
the  milk  is  well  curdled,  strain  through  clean  muslin  into 
a  glass,  and  serve  the  whey  very  hot. 

CHICKEN   PANADA. 

INGREDIENTS. 

§  lb.  Chicken  Meat.  J  teaspoonful  Salt, 

i  lb.  Bread  soaked  in  Milk.      J  saltspoonful  Pepper. 
1  pint  Chicken  Liquor  or 
Broth. 

The  chicken  may  be  obtained  from  a  cold  roast  fowl, 
the  bones,  gristle,  and  tendons  of  which  should  be  boiled 
for  the  broth,  or  a  fowl  may  be  used  on  purpose  for  it. 

Put  the  breadcrumbs  to  soak  iu  enough  milk  to  cover 
them.       Cut  the  chicken   into   small   pieces,   leaving  out 


HOUSESOLD  COOKEBY  — INVALID  COOKEBT.   333 

everything  which  is  not  meat,  and  chop  it  on  a  board 
until  it  is  very  fine.  Press  the  breadcrumbs  through  a 
coarse  wire  strainer  into  a  pan  with  the  meat,  pour  in 
the  broth  (from  which  the  fat  has  been  removed),  and 
add  the  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  for  1  minute.  The 
panada  should  be  about  the  consistency  of  thick  gruel. 
It  may  be  varied  by  seasoning  it  with  celery-salt.  Two 
table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  cream  form  a  desirable  addition. 

MILK  TOAST. 

Put  one  cup  of  rich  milk  into  a  saucepan,  and  place 
it  on  the  stove.  WhUe  it  is  heating,  toast  three  slices  of 
bread  a  delicate  brown.  Put  them,  one  at  a  time,  into 
a  covered  dish,  and  when  the  milk  is  boiling,  season 
it  with  one  saltspoonful  salt,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread. 
A  little  butter  may  be  spread  upon  each  slice  before  milk 
is  poured  over  it,  but  it  is  a  more  delicate  dish  without 
it.      May  be  cut  into  dice  or  strips  before  milk  is  poured  on. 


334     BOUSEBOLD  COOKEBT  —  CONFECTIONEBT. 

Simple  Confectionery. 

MOLASSES   CANDY. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Butter.  1  table-spoonful  Glucose. 

i  lb.  Granulated  Sugar.  1  table-spoonful  Vinegar. 

2  lb.  tin  Syrup. 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  sugar  and  syrup.  When 
quite  dissolved  add  glucose.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  and 
boil  to  285  degs.  Fahr.  At  once  place  pan  into  a  basin 
of  cold  water  and  add  vinegar,  stirring  vigorously.  Pour 
into  buttered  tins  or  on  to  marble  between  greased  candy 
bars.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  add  flavouijing 
(peppermint  or  ginger),  and  pull  till  light-coloured  and 
smooth.  Pull  into  long'  strips  and  cut  with  greased 
scissors.  '  Wrap  in  caramel  paper. 

Note. — It  is  advisable  to  stir  the  candy  after  it  reaches 
280  degrees. 

EVERTON  TOFFEE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Granulated  Sugar.  1  small  teaoupful  Golden 

1  pint  Gold  Water.  Syrup. 

4  lb.  best  Salt  Butter.  J  teaspoonful  Cream  of 

Essence  Lemon  to  taste.  Tartar. 
If  liked,  a  few  drops  Saffron 

colouring.  , 

Put  in  good-sized  pan,  the  sugar,  water,  syrup,  and 
one-third  of  the  butter,  and  dissolve;  stir  all  the  time. 
Put  in  thermometer,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  to 
260  degrees  Fahr.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  butter,  cut  in 
thin  slices  so  as  to  boil  quickly  into  the  sugar,  and  stir 
carefully  with  the  thermometer  to  300  degrees  Fahr. 

Note. — After  260  degrees  lower  the  gas  and  stir  carefully, 
as,  if  flame  is  too  strong  against  the  bottom  of  pan  and 


EOVSEBOLD  COOKEBT —  C0NFECTI0NES7.     335 

if  not  carefully  stirred,  it  is  apt  to  scorch.  Remove  the 
pan  to  table  and  very  gently  mix  in  the  essence  of  lemon 
and  a  few  drops  of  saffron  colouring,  if  wished  a  darker 
brown  colour.  Pour  on  buttered  marble  between  buttered 
candy  bars  or  into  buttered  dish.  Make  it  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  when  half  cold,  score  into  squares  with  a  knife. 
Break  up  when  cold  and  keep  in  a  tin  lined  with  parchment 
paper.       It  keeps  for  months. 


HELENSBURGH   TOFFEE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Granulated  Sugar.  1   teacupful   Milk   or   Cream 

i  lb.  Fresh  Butter.  or  Water. 

1  large  tin  Condensed  Milk.      i  bottle  Vanilla  Essence. 

Melt  butter  with  water  in  pan.  Add  sugar.  When 
dissolved,  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then 
add  condeiised  milk.  Boil  to  soft  ball  (24:0°F.).  Remove 
from  heat,  allow  to  settle,  add  essence.  Beat  with  a 
wooden  spoon  till  it  b^ins  to  grain.  Quickly  pour  into 
a  greased  tin.  When  quite  set,  mark  into  squares  or 
fingers. 

RUSSIAN   TOFFEE. 

INOREDIENTS. 

2  teaeupfuls  Sugar.  2  table-spoonfuls  Syrup. 

3  ozs.  Butter  (rresh).  1  teacupful  Water. 

1  tin  Condensed  Milk.  Little  Vanilla  Essence. 

Melt  half  the  butter,  add  sugar,  sjrrup,  condensed  milk, 
water,  vanilla  essence.  When  boiling  put  in  the  other 
half  of  butter  small  piece  at  a  time. 

Boil  for  about  one  hour  or  till  when  tried  in  water 
forms  a  small  hard  ball.  Pour  into  a  greased  tin  and 
before  it  is  quite  cold,  cut  into  blocks.  Roll  in 
waxed  paper. 


336     HOUSEHOLD  COOKEST  —  CONFECTIONEBT. 

COCOANUT  TABLET. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  lbs.  Sugar.  1  oz.  Butter. 

i  lb.  Coooanut.  Any  Flavouring  and 

IJ  teacupfuls  Milk.  Colouring  liked. 

Heat  milk  and  sugar  slowly,  and  when  boiling,  add 
butter  and  cocoanut.  Boil  15  minutes,  then  remove  £r«m 
fire  and  stir  till  creamy  and  thick. 

Fig  Tablet. — ^Use  Demerara  or  brown  sugar  and  6  ozs. 
figs.  To  prepare  figs — wash,  chop,  and  pound  in  mortar. 
Place  in  pan  when  mixture  comes  to  boiling  point. 


WALNUT  TABLET. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Granulated  Sugar.  3  ozs.  Shelled  Walnuts. 

1  teacupful  Milk.  1  table-spoonful  Butter. 

1  table-spoonful  Syrup.  1  teaspoonful  Vanilla. 

Put  sugar,  butter,  milk  and  syrup  into  a  pan.  Bring 
slowly  to  boUing^  point.  Boil  to  240  degs.  F.,  or  soft  ball 
(about  25  minutes).  Remove  from  fire,  add  walnuts 
roughly  chopped  and  vanilla.  Beat  with  a  wooden  spoon 
till  creamy.  Pour  into  a  tin  which  has  Jbebn  greased  and 
lined  with  grease-proof  paper. 


COCOANUT   ICE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  OZS.  Dessicated  Cocoanut.        2  Whites  (stiffly  beaten). 
1  gill  Water.  1  lb.  Granulated  Sugar. 

Boil  sugar  and,  water  to  236  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Stir 
in  cocoanut  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Next  add  whites, 
stiffly  beaten,  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Pour 
between  bars  on  buttered  slab  and  cut  into  bars  when  cold. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEMY  —  CONFECTIONERY.      337 

TURKISH   DELIGHT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Castor  Sugar.  1  full  i  pint  Cold  Water. 

i  oz.  (good  measure)  Cox's  Small  third-teaspoonful 

Instant  Powdered  Gelatine.         Tartaric  Acid. 

Juice  of  2  Lemons.  <  Lemon  Essence  to  taste. 

Put  the  gelatine  in  water  and  dissolve.  Add  the  sugar 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then 
boil  briskly,  stirring  all  the  time  for  8  minutes,  hy  the 
clock.  Eemove  pan  to  table  and  add  the  tartaric  acid 
in  the  lemon  juice.  Also  add  essence  of  lemon  to  taste, 
and,  if  wished,  colour  p'ale  pink.  Then  just  bring  all  to 
boiling  point.  (Add  small  measures  of  flavourings;  they' 
are  all  strong.)  Pour  into  a  tin  which  has  been  rinsed 
out  with  cold  water  and  leave  in  a  cool  place  for  24  hours. 
After  it  stands  for  5  minutes  remove  the  scum 
with  a  spoon.  Theij  drop  in  pistachio  nuts  or  blanched 
and  dried  almonds,  if  desired. 

To  turn  out,  dip  tin  quickly  in  water  (boiling)  and  turn 
the  Delight  on  to  icing  sugar.  Leave  for  an  hour,  then 
rub  over  with  icing  sugar.  Then  out  into  squares  and 
roll  each  square  in  icing  sugar  to  which  a  good  pinch  of 
tartaric  acid  or  cream  of  tartar  has  been  added,  or  use 
icing  sugar  only.  The  icing  sugar  should  be  perfectly 
dry.  Pack  the  Delight  in  box  Vith  tissue  or  kitchen 
paper.  Do  not  use  wax  paper.  It  may  be  flavoured 
with  orange  or  a  mixture  of  orange  and  lemon,  and  also 
with  rose. 

MARSH-MALLOWS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

10  ozs.  Granulated  Sugar/  J    pint    Water    and    Orange 

i  pint  Water.  Mower    Water,    mixed    (4 

I  oz.  Cox's  Instant  Powdered  dessert-spoonfuls       Orange 

Gelatine  (light  weight).  Flower  Water  is  suflS.oient). 
1  dessert-spoonful  Glucose. 

Put  the  gelatine  in  the  water  and  the  orange  flower 
water,  then  dissolve  it  in  a  fairly  large  pan  over  a  gentle 


338     SOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT —  CONFECTIONESY. 

heat  and  set  it  aside.  In  another  pan  put  the  sugar, 
water,  and  glucose,  dissolve  in  the  usual  way  and  boil  to 
260  degrees  Tahr.  Re-warm  the  pan  containing  gelatine 
and  pour  the  boiled  sugar  into  it,  beating  briskly  with  an 
egg  whisk;  after  a  minute  or  two  add  the  stiffly-beaten 
white  of  an  egg,  then  whip  the  batch  till  it  gets  white 
and  stiff,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Leave  -it  in  pan 
for  half  an  hour,  then  run  a  thin  knife  round  the  edge 
of  the  pan  and  turn  it  on  to  dry  sifted  icing  sugar. 
Leave  it  for  an  hour  or  for  some  hours,  then  rub  over 
with  icing  sugar,  then  with  large  scissors  cut  into  squares, 
and  mb  each  square  with  icing  sugar.  Leave  these 
exposed  to  the  air  in  a  warm  room  for  two  or  three  days, 
then  keep  it  in  a  tin  lined  with  kitchen  paper.  Any 
kind  of  nuts,  if  ground,  can  be  added  to  the  batch  while 
J)eating  it.  Various  flavours  can  be  used,  such  as  vanilla, 
rose,  chocolate,  strawberry,  or  coffee. 


CREME   DE   MENTHE    SQUARES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

10  ozs.  Granulated  Sugar.  1  to  2  drops  Apple  Green 
i  oz.  Jap  Gelatine  (Agar,  ColouTing. 

Agar).  7  oes.  Glucose. 

i  teacupful  cooked  Apple  J  teaspoonful  Cox's  Gelatine 

Pnlp-  (dissolved     in      2      table- 

FuU  i  pint  Cold  Wa.ter.  spoonfuls    boiling    water). 

4  or  5  drops  Oil  of 

Peppermint. 

Soak  Jap  gelatine  an  hour  or  two,  or  overnight,  in  a 
full  J  pint  of  cold  water.  Then  dissolve  over  a  gentle 
heat,  stirring  constantly,  and  then  add  glucose  and  dissolve 
it.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  boiling 
water  and  add  to  the  Jap  and  gluco.^.  Prepare  apple 
by  slicing  and  simmering  till  soft  in  a  little  water,  and 
then  rub  through  a  hair  sieve.  Add  the  apple  pulp  and 
sugar.    Boil,  stirring  carefully,  till  the  syrup,  when  held 


HOV-BEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  CONFECTIONERY .      339 

up,  runs  in  an  unbroken  thread,  all  thick  and  oily  looking. 
Flavour  with  peppermint.  Colour  a  pale  green  and  pour 
into  impressions  made  in  very  dry,  sifted,  confectioners' 
starch,  or  pour  into  a  wetted  mould.  Leave  till  set,  then 
dust  off  any  starch,  and  roll  in  icing  sugar.  Leave  drying 
in  the  sugar  for  a  day  or  two,  then  dust  it  off,  and  pack 
in  boxes  with  layers  of  wax  paper. 

If  mixture  has  been  poured  into  a  wetted  mould  dip 
in  warm  water  to  immould,  then  finish  off,  as  above,  with 
icing  sugar,  after  cutting  in  rounds  or  squares. 


MARZIPAN. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  li  gills  Water.  ^ 

12  ozB.  Ground  Almonds.  2  Whites  of  Eggs. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  232  degrees  Fahr.  Take  the  pan 
from  the  fire,  grain  a  little  by  stirring,  and  stir  in  ground 
almonds  and  white  of  egg;  cook  a  little  over  a  slow  fire. 
Turn  on  to  a  slab,  add  about  three  table-spoonfuls  sifted 
icing  sugar,  and  work  with  a  spatula  until  cool  enough 
to  handle.  Knead  it  smooth,  divide  into  portions,  colour 
and  flavour  them  with  different  essences,  and  use  for 
moulding  into  fruits  and~flowers,  forming  into  logs,  rolls 
and  slices,  and  for  placing  in  tin  moulds. 

N.B. — Less  almonds  may  be  used. 

CARAMEL   WALNUT. 

INGREDIENTS. 
Marzipan.  Walnuts.  Syrup. 

Form  marzipan  into  balls,  place  halved  shelled  walnut 
on  either  side.  Allow  to  dry  for  12  hours.  Coat  with 
syrup.      When  set,  place  in  paper  cases. 


34o     HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  CONFECTIONEST. 

SYRUP. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Loaf  Sugar.  Pinch  Cream  of  Tartar. 

IJ  gills  Water. 

Dissolve  sugar  slowly  in  the  water,  add  cream  of  tartar, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  skim  well,  boil  till  at  crack 
300  degrees  Fahr. 


HOUSEEOLD  COOKEBY  —  MISCELtTANMOVS.     341 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

BREAKFAST   DISHES. 
PORRIDGE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Oatmeal.  1  level  teaspoonful  Salt. 
1  pint  boiling  Water. 

Boil  the  water,  add  salt,  spriukle  in  the  oatmeal,  stirring 
all  the  time.'  When  it  comes  to  boiling  point  put  pan 
lid  on,  and  allow  to  simmer  1  hour,  stirring  frequently. 

BACON   AND    EGGS. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

3  ozB.  Bacon.  1  Egg. 

Slice  the  bacon  thinly.  Fry  the  bacon,  slightly  under- 
done, and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  keep  hot,  and  finish 
cooking  while  frying  the  egg.  Break  the  egg  into  a  cup, 
and  place  gently  into  the  pan  in  which  the  bacon  was  fried, 
having  the  fat  slightly  smoking.  Keep  as  round  a  shape 
as  possible,  and  baste  continually  with  the  hot  fat  until 
lightly  set.  Drain  from  the  fat,  and  place  on  top  of 
the  bacon.       Serve  hot. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

INGREDIENTS. 


1  slice  Toast. 

Water. 

1  Egg. 

Vinegar. 

Salt. 

Add  salt  and  about  1  teaspoonful  vinegar  to  the  water; 
break  egg  into  cup.  Slip  gently  and  quickly  into  a  pan 
of  hot  water,  and  cook  for  2i  minutes  under  boiling 
point.  Slip  out,  drain,  and  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast; 
garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 


342      EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

SCRAMBLED   EGG. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

1  dice  Toast.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  Egg.  About  1  table-spoonful  Milk, 
i  oz.  Butter.  Parsley. 

Butter  the  toast  and  keep  hat.  Melt  the  butter.  Mix 
beaten  egg  and  milk,  add  seasoning,  pour  into  the  butter. 
Stir  briskly  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens  and  is  creamy. 
Pile  on  toast,  and  garnish  with  a  littla  parsley.  Serve 
at  once. 

N.B. — Chopped  parsley  or  ham  may  be  added  to  vary. 

TO   BOIL   EGGS   HARD. 

Place  on  in  cold  water,  boil  for  20  minutes,  place  in 
cold  water  till  required  to  prevent  discoloration  of  the  yolk. 

TO   BOIL   EGGS    SOFT. 

Use  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  eggs.  Place 
the  eggs  in  the  water  just  off  boUing  point.  Let  them 
stand  from  10  to  12  minutes  on  the  hearth  or  any  place 
where  the  water  will  not  lose  its  warmth  too  quickly. 
The  saucepan  should  remain  uncovered. 

BAKING   POWDER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Bice  Flour.  2  ozs.  Bi-carbonate  of  Soda. 
2  ozs.  Tartaric  Acid. 

Crush  lumps  out  of  tartaric  acid  and  soda;  add  rice 
flour.  Sift  through  a  fine  sieve  twice.  Never  touch 
with  the  hands.      Keep  in  well-corked  bottles. 

BREAD   RASPINGS. 

Place  the  scraps  and  crusts  of  bread  in  a  tin,  and  put 
into  the  oven  until  dry  and  nicely  browned,  but  not  burnt. 


HOVSEEOLD  COOEEB¥  — MISCELLANEOUS.     343 

Place  on  a  board  and  crush  with' rolling-pin.      Rub  through 
a  wire  sieve  and  they  are  ready  for  use. 

N.B. — If  doing  large  quantities,  put  through  a  mincing 
machine  before  crushing. 

RENDERED    FAT. 

INGEEDIENTS.- 

Mixture  of  Beef  and  Mutton  Fat. 

Cut  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a  strong  unlined  pan, 
cover  with  Hater,  and  heat  gently  until  all  the  water  is 
driven  off.  Carefully  continue  heating  the  fat  until  it 
becomes  liquid  and  any  solid  remaining  part  has  become 
quite  clear,  then  allow  to  cool  slightly,  pour  through  a 
strainer,  and  use  as  a  medium  for  frying  or  •  making 
plain  pastries  or  cakes. 

N.B. — Careful  watching  and  frequent  stirring  are 
necessary  after  the  water  is  driven  off. 

CLARIFIED   DRIPPING 
which  has  become  dark  through  use. 

Place  the  fat  in  a  pan,  adding  i  to  1  pint  of  cold  water, 
according  to  the  amount  of  fat,  heat  slowly,  stir 
occasionally,  simmer  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
turn  the  whole  contents  into  a  basin  of  cold  water.  Next 
day  lift  off  carefully  the  solid  cake  of  fat,  turn  over  and 
scrape  off  the  sediment  which  has  clung  to  the  bottom. 
Place  the  fat  in  a  pan,  and  heat  slowly  till  it  just  begins 
to  faintly  smoke,  whien  it  is  ready  for  use.  If  fat  is 
very  dirty,  clarify  twice. 

BROWN   FLOUR. 

Put  flour  in  a  frying-pan  and  stir  over  a  moderate  heat 
until  it  is  a  light  coffee  colour,  and  then  let  it  get  cold. 
Rub  through  a  sieve  to  get  rid  of  any  lumps,  and  store 
in  bottles  or  tins.  Brown  flour  does  not  thicken  so  much 
as  white  flour,  so  good  measure  must  "always  be  used. 


344     EOUSEBOLD  COOKEBT  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

BROWNING. 

Place  i  lb.  sugar  in  an  unlined  pan,  stir  until  it  is 
melted,  then  allow  to  take  a  dark  brown  colour,  add  i  pint 
boiling  water  gradually.  Allow  to .  become  quite  cold, 
then  strain  and  bottle. 


VEAL   FORCEMEAT  OR   STUFFING. 

INGREDIENTS.  v 

3  oza.  Breadcrumbs.  1  teaspoonful  Herbs. 

1  oz.  chopped  Suet.  1  Egg. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  Little  Milk. 
Paisley. 

Mix  all  together,  using  a  fork. 

N.B. — Butter  melted  is  substituted  for  suet  when  for 
fish  dishes. 

COATING   BATTER. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Flour.  About  1  gill  tepid  Wateti 

i  teaspoonful  Salt.  ~ 

Add  salt  to  flour,  and  gradually  enough  tepid  water  to 
make  a  eonsistency  to  coat  spoon.      Beat  well. 


BEANS  AND  BACON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Beans.  i  lb.  Tat  Bacon. 

Wash  and  soak  the  beans  overnight  and  put  on  to  boil 
in  cold  water,  to  which  has  been  added  an  onion.  Boil 
till  tender;  time  varies  according  to  size  of  bean,  average 
time  about  two  hours.  Drain  beans  and  fry  bacon.  Pry 
beans  in  fat  drawn  from  bacon,  season  if  necessary.  Place 
beans  in  the  middle  of  dish  and  arrange  bacon  round. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MISCELLANEOUS.     345 

CHEESE   POTATOES. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6  or  8  Boiled  Potatoes.  1  gill  Milk. 

1  oz.  Dripping  or  Butter.  Raspings  (if  liked). 

2  ozs.  Qrated  Cheese.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Mash  the  potatoes  smoothly,  add  the  salt,  pepper,  milk 
and  butter,  and  most  of  the  grated  cheese,  mix  well  and 
put  in  a  greased  pie-dish,  sprinkle  the  remainding  cheese 
and  raspings  over  the  top,  brown  in  the  oven  or  before 
the  fire. 

MACARONI    AND   CHEESE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozB.  Macaroni  (Naples).  i  pint  White  Sauce. 

3  ozs.  Grated  Cheese.  Salt    and   Pepper. 

Wash  and  boil  the  macaroni  in  salted  water,  with  lid 
off,  for  about  40  minutes  and  then  drain.  Grate  cheese 
and  add  nearly  all  to  white  sauce,  add  macaroni.  Season 
rather  highly,  turn  into  a  greased  pie-dish;  sprinkle  a 
few  raspings  on  top  and  the  rest  of  the  cheese.  Heat 
through  in  a  brisk  oven. 

WELSH   RAREBIT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  table-spoonfuls  Grated  1  teaspoonful  Butter. 

Cheese  (soft  cheese).  Seasoning. 

1  table-spoonful  Milk.  Toasted  Bread. 

Place  the  cheese,  butter,  and  milk  in  a  pan  and  heat 
through;  season.  Pour  on  to  toast  (buttered  if  liked) 
and  serve  at  once. 

RICE   AND   CHEESE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Bice.  i  pint  Milk. 

2  OZB.  Grated  Cheese.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Wash  the  rice  and  boil  20  minutes  in  water.  Pour 
off  and  dry  rice  slightly.       Add  milk  and  cook  till  th« 


346     HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

rice  has  absorbed  all  the  milk;  season  and  place  rice  and 
cheese  in  layers  in  a  greased  pie-dish.  Sprinkle  cheese 
on  top  and  then  a  few  bread  raspings  over.  Reheat  and 
serve  at  once. 


CHEESE    PUDDING. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  1-2.  well-beaten  Eggs. 

2  ozs.  Grated  CSieese.  i  pint  Milk. 

1   oz.  letter.  1   aaltspoonful   Mustard. 
Salt  and  Pepper. 

Warm  the  butter  and  milk  together,  pour  over  the 
crumbs  and  cheese;  add  seasoning  and  egg,  pour  into  a 
small  greased  pie-dish,  bake  for  i  hour. 


TEA, 

Allow  one  small  teaspoonful  for  each  person  and  one 
for  the  pot,  if  for  a  few  people;  but  if  tea  is  being  made 
for  a  larger  number,  the  quantity  allowed  is  proportion- 
ately less.  Heat  the  teapot,  put  in  the  tea,  and  pour 
in  sufficient  fresUy-boiled  water  to  just  infuse.  Let  it 
stand  for  3  to  5  minutes.  Till  up  with  boiling  water, 
and  after  letting  it  stand  a  ininute,  pour  out. 

A  pinch  of  carbonate  of  soda  may  be  added  when  the 
water  is  very  hard. 

COCOA. 

One  teaspoonful  of  cocoa  to  a  breakfast  cup.  Sugar 
to  sweeten.  Half  breakfast  cup  milk  and  half  breakfast- 
cup  water. 

Mix  the  sugar  with  the  cocoa.  Put  the  milk  and  water 
on  to  heat,  and  when  it  boils,  pour  it  on  to  the  cocoa, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Return  to  the  pan  and  boil. 
Then  serve. 


BOVSEEOLD  COOEEBT  —  MISCELLANEOUS.     347 

COFFEE    (A). 

Two  ozs.  coffee  to  each  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Heat  the  coffee  jug  thoroughly,  then  put  in  the  coffee, 
pour  on  the  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm 
place  for  5  or  6  minutes,  then  strain.  If  it  is  for  black 
coffee,  serve  with  cream;  if  for  breakfast  coffee,  serve 
equal  quantities  of  coffee  and  boiling  milk. 

COFFEE    (B). 

The  above  proportions  may  be  taken,  but  place  coffee 
in  cold  water,  soak  a  long  time,  then  bring  slowly  to 
boiling  point,  simmer  a  minute,  strain,  use  as  above. 

DEVILLED    ALMONDS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  OZS.- Jordan  Almonds. 

1  oz.  Clarified  Butter  or  Salad  Oil. 

Salt  and  Cayenne. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  dry  them,  without  browning 
them,  in  the  oven.  Then  fry  them  in  clarified  butter  or 
oil  till  a  light  brown.  Drain  slightly,  then  place  in  the 
comer  of  a  towel  on  which  salt  has  been  sprinkled  and 
some  cayenne  pepper.      Toss  lightly  in  this  and  serve  crisp. 

BROWNED    CRUMBS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
2  ozs.  Coarse  Breadcrumbs.         1  oz.  Butter. 

Heat  the  butter  without  discolouring,  place  in  the  crumbs, 
and  stir  over  a  moderate  heat  until  of  the  desired  colour, 
being  careful  to  have  them  all  of  a  uniform  shade. 
Season  and  use.  / 

BOILED    FLOUR. 

Tie  up  a  quantity  of  flour  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  quickly 
for  5  hours.      Turn  it  out  and  allow  to  cool.      Take  off 


348      HOUSEEOLD  GOOKEST  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

the  soft  crust  and  grate  down  the  flour.  Use  as  oornflopr 
or  arrowroot.  This  boiled  flour  is  very  digestible,  and 
is  given  to  invalids  and  young  children. 

CHEESE   PUDDING. 

INQEEDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Flour.  2  Eggs. 

2  ozs.  Grated  Cheese.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayeime. 
J  pint  Milk. 

Make  a  sauce  with  flour  and  milk,  cook  3  minutes,  and 
add  cheese  and  seasonings.  When  slightly  cool  add  beaten 
eggs,  turn  into  a  greased  pie-dish,  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot 
oven  till  brown  and  well  risen.       Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE   CUSTARD. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  Eggs.  i  lb.  grated  CJheddar  Cheese. 

3  gills  Milk.  Seasoning. 
Mustard  if  liked. 

Heat  milk  and  cheese  vmtil  cheese  is  melted.  When 
cool  enough  pour  over  eggs.  Season  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  until  set. 

SCOTCH   EGGS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  hard-boiled  Eggs.  1  oz.  Butter. 

4  ozs.  cold  Meat  (chopped).        1  oz.  Flour. 
1  gill  Stock.  Seasoning. 

Make  a  panada  with  the  flour,  butter,  and  stock.  Add 
the  meat  and  seasoning.  Shell  the  eggs,  rub  with  a  little 
flour,  and  coat  with  the  mixture.  Egg  and  crumb  and 
fry  in  hot  fat.  Cut  into  halves,  arrange  on  a  dish,  and 
garnish  with  parsley.      Serve  with  or  without  sauce/ 

Instead  of  the  meat  mixture  sausages  may  be  used,  in 
which  case  the  Scotch  eggs  must  be  fried  longer  to 
thoroughly  cook  ;the  sausage-meat. 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEB¥  — MISCELLANEOUS.     34l> 
BIRDS'   NESTS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  1  teaspoonful  chopped 

1  teaspoonful  Sifted  Thyme  Parsley. 

or  Sweet  Herbs.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

1  oz.  Butter  (melted).  2  hard-boiled  Eggs. 

1  Egg.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs  to  coat. 

Make  the  forcemeat.  Rub  "the  eggs  in  flour,  then  work 
round  the  forcemeat.  Egg  and  crumb  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.      Drain.       Cut  in  half  and  dish  on  a  dish-paper. 

Garnish  with  parsley. 


CONVENT  EGGS. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

2  hard-boiled  Eggs.  Small  piece  Onion. 

i  oz.  Butter.  i  pint  Milk. 

1  table-spoonful  Flour.  Salt  aind  Pepper. 

Slice  the  onion  thinly  and  cook  in  butter  for  10  minutes 
without  browniug.  Add  flour  and  then  the  milk  gradually^ 
Stir  till  boiling  and  boil  for  3  minutes.  Cut  the  eggs  m 
halves  or  slices  and  heat  in  the  sauce.  Lift  the  eggs  on 
to  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over.  Garnish  with 
fried  or  toasted  bread. 


CHEESE   CUTLETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  OZ.  Butter.  1  oz.  grated  Cheese. 

1  oz.  Flour.     I  Panada.  Seasonings. 

1  gill  Milk.     J  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs  to 

1  oz.  cooked  Macaroni.  coat. 

Make  panada  in  usual  way,  add  cooked  chopped  macaroni, 
grated  cheese  and  seasonings  and  mix  well.  Spread  evenly 
on  a  plaite  and  put  aside  till  cold.  Divide  into  equal 
portions,  shape  into  cutlet  shape,  egg  and  crumb  and  place 
a  little  piece  of  uncooked  macaroni  in  the  end  of  each 
outlet.       Fry  a  golden  brown  colour  in  smoking  hot  fat. 


350     EOUSEEOLD  COOKEBT —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

NUT  CUTLETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  oz.  Butter.  —      Little  grated  Onion. 

1  oz.  Flour.  4  ozs.  Pine  Kernels^  minced. 

1  giil  Milk.  Salt,  Pepper,  Lemon, 

1  Yolk.  Macaroni. 

Melt  butter  in  pan;  add  flour,  then  milk,  and  cook 
thoroughly.  Add  onion,  nuts,  seasoning  and  mix  well 
together.  Turn  out  on  plate  to  cool.  Divide  into  8 
and  shape  into  cutlets.  Coat  with  white  of  egg.  Insert 
macaroni  to  represent  hone.  Fry  and  serve  with  cxarf 
or  tomato  sauce. 


EGG  CUTLETS. 

Ingredients. 
2  hard-boiled  Eggs.  1  oz.  cookfed  Ham  or  Tongue. 

1  oz.  Butter.  2  or  3  Mushrooms. 

1  oz.  Flour.  1  raw  Tolk. 

1  gill  Milk  or  White  Stock.      Little  grated  Nutmeg. 
Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne.  Egg  and  Breadcrumbs. 

Boil  the  eggs  15  minutes  and  cut  into  small  dice.  Mince 
the  ham  and  mushrooms  or  tongue,  finely.  Make  a  panada 
with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Boil  well.  Take  oflE  the 
fire,  add  yolk,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  ham,  mushrooms, 
and  hard-boiled  eggs.  Turn  the  mixture  on  to  a  plate  to 
cool.  When  cold,  shape  into  cutlets,  egg  and  crumb  and 
fry.  Serve  in  circle,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley  or 
water-cress  in  the  centre. 


CHEESE    EGGS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  Eggs.  3  ozs.  Cheese. 

i  pint  Milk.  Salt,  Pepper,  Cayenne. 

Place  the  cheese  and  milk  in  a  pan,  and  stir  till  dis- 
solved.    Add  seasoning  and  beaten  eggs,  and  stir  till  the 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  — MISCELLANEOUS.     351 

mixture  thickens  and  is  thick  enough  to  stand  on  toast. 
Pile  on  toast  thinly  buttered,  if  liked,  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

LENTIL  AND  CHEESE  CUTLETS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Lentils.  2  ozs.  cooked  Potatoes. 

2  ozs.  grated  Cheese.  1  oz.  Butter. 

1  Yolk  of  Egg.  Seasoning. 

Boil  lentils  and  sieve  along  with  the  potatoes.  Mix 
all  ingredients  together.  Shape  into  cutlet  form,  coat 
with  egg  and  breadcrumbs  and  fry  a  golden  brown  colour 
in  deep  fat. 

TOMATOES   AND    BACON. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Tomatoes.  J  lb.  Bacon. 

Slice  the  bacon  thinly;  skin  the  tomatoes  and  slice 
thickly.  Fry  the  bacon  and  keep  it  hot.  Fry  the 
tomatoes,  season  nicely,  and  arrange  round  the  bacon. 

Note. — This  might  be  cooked  in  the  oven.  Mushrooms 
treated  similarly. 

BUTTERED  EGGS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  slices  Buttered  Toast.  2  table-spoonfuls  Milk. 
2  Eggs.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

2  ozs.  Butter. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  seasoning.  Melt  the  butter  in 
a  pan,  add  the  milk  and  eggs,  stir  till  it  thickens  and 
becomes  a  thick  creamy  consistency.  Pile  on  buttered 
toast,  garnish  with  parsley. 

N.B. — Chopped  ham,  tongue,  or  parsley  or  herbs  may" 
be  added. 


352      HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

CABBAGE,   RICE,  AND   POACHED   EGGS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

About  6  or  8  ozs.  tender  i  gill  Water  to  flush  Bice. 

Cabbage.  Salt. 

1  small  Onion  (shredded).  J  gill  Rice. 

1  oz.  Fat.  1  or  2  Eggs. 
1  gill  Water  to  1  lb.  Cabbage, 

Sweat  onion  in  the  fat.  Add  the  shredded  cabbage 
and  first  lot  of  water,  also  the  salt.  Cook  slowly.  When 
cabbage  is  half  cooked  add  rice,  stirring  well  into  the 
cabbage,  then  add  rest  of  water.  Continue  cooking  till 
rice  is  tender.  A  few  minutes  before  serving  poach  eggs 
on  top  of  cabbage. 

MACARONI   A   LA  TOMATE. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

3  large  Tomatoes.  Seasoning. 

1  oz.  Butter.  i  oz.  cooked  Ham. 

2  ozs.  Macaroni. 

Cut  tomatoes  in  slices  and  cook  them  in  butter.  When 
tender,  rub  through  a  hair  sieve  and  season.  Boil  the 
macaroni  in  salted  water  till  tender.  Strain.  Pour  cold 
water  over  and  cut  in  one-inch  lengths.  Cut  ham  in 
shreds  and  add  it  with  the  macaroni  to  the  toimato  puree. 
Heat  through.  Serve  in  an  au  gratin  dish,  sprinkled 
over  with  parsley. 

MACARONI   A   LA   MILANESE. 

INGBEDIENTS. 

2  OZS.  Macaroni,  boiled  and  out  in  one-inch  lengths. 

3  Tomatoes.         i 

1  oz.  Butter.        I  Cook  together  and  sieve  when  Tomatoes  ar« 
1  slice  Onion.      I         tender. 
Seasoning.  I 

1  oz.  Butter.  1  gill  Milk. 

1  oz.  riour.  Tomato  Purfie. 

Make  into  a  Sauce,  Season,  and  add  1  oz.  grated  Cheese,  i 
table-spoonful  Cream,  Carmine  ~(if  necessary). 

Have  macaroni  in  a  pan.  Pour  most  of  the  sauce  over. 
Mix  and  make  very  hot.       Pour  into  an  au  gratin  dish. 


EOUSESOLD  COOKEBT  —  MISCELLANEOUS.     353 

Coat  with  the  remainder  of  the  sance  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

CURRIED    EGGS. 

INGHEDIENTS. 

4  to  6  hard-boiled  Eggs.  3  ozs.  Boiled  Rice  (see 

i  pint  Ourry  Sauce  (see  page  170). 

page  246).  Garnish  of  sieved  Yolk   and 

Parsley. 

Cut  hard-boiled  e^s  in  half  and  place  in  hot  sauce 
and  heat  through.  iPorm  rice  into  a  border  and  place 
the  curried  eggs  in  the  centre.  Add  a  little  lemtfn  juice 
to  the  curry  sauce.       Pour  round,  garnish. 

CURLED    BACON. 

Roll  up  thinly-cuit  slices  of  streaky  bacon,  keeping  the 
roll  hollow  in  the  centre.  Push  a  skewer  through  each 
roll.  Place  on  a  dripping-tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

TO   CLARIFY   BUTTER. 

Melt  the  butter  slowly  in  a  shallow  pan.  Heat  it,  but 
do  not  allow  it  td  discolour.  Skim  off  the  frothiness 
that  rises.  Let  the  butter  stand  for  a  minute  or  two, 
and  then  pour  off  carefully,  leaving  the  sediment  behind. 

LIVER   COCKTAIL. 

8  ozs.  liver  yields  4  table-spoonfuls  crushed  product. 
Mix  liver  and  sauce  m  proportion — 1  part  crushed  liver : 
2i  parts  sauce. 

Sauce. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

i  cup  Tomato  Ketchup.  2  teaspoonfuls  Worcester 

J  cup  Lemon  Juice.  Sauce. 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  taste. 

Mix  ingredients.  Chill  thoroughly  and  serve  in  cock- 
tail glasses. 


354     HOUSEHOLD  COOKERY  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

ORANGE  JUICE  AND  LIVER  COCKTAIL. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4  ozs.  Liver.  4  ozs.  Orange  Juiee. 

Put  liver  through  mincer  several  times.  Add  cold 
water  to  make  pulp  consistency  of  thick  eream.  Leave 
on  ice  at  least  1  hour.    Beat  a  little,  add  orange  juice. 

Strain,  serve  very  cold  in  a  coloured  glass. 


MINCEMEAT    (PLAIN). 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Raisins.  i  lb.  Suet. 

J  lb.  Sultanas.  2  ozs.  Peel. 

i  lb.  Ouirants.  i  Nutmeg. 

i  lb.  Apples.  J  teaspoonful  Mixed  Spiee. 

i  teaspoonful  Ginger.  1  Iiemon. 

i  teaspoonful  Cinnamon.  Good  pinch  Salt. 

2  ozs.  Brown  Sugar. 

Stone  and  chop  the  raisins,  rub  and  pick  the  sultanas, 
wash,  pick  and  dry  the  currants,  mince  the  suet  and 
peel  finely,  peel  and  mince  the  apples,  grate  the  rind  of 
the  lemon  thinly,  strain  the  juiee,  mix  everything  together, 
press  into  jars  and  cover  till  required- 

MINCEMEAT. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  lb.  Beef  Suet.  1  teaspoonful  Salt. 

IJ  lbs.  Currants.  1  teaspoonful  Ground  Ginger. 

1  lb.  Valencia  EaisLns.  1  teaspoonful  Ground  Cloves. 

i  lb.  Mineed  Peel.  1  teaspoonful  Ground 

6  large  Apples.  AUspiee. 

i  lb.  Almonds.  1  Grated  Nutmeg. 

Bind  of  1  Lemon.  J  pint  Brandy. 

Juiee  of  2  Lemons.  J  pint  Sherry. 

I  lb.  Moist  Sugar.  i  pint  Rum. 

Chop  apples  and  suet  finely.  Chop  peel  and  almonds. 
Stone  and  chop  raisins  roughly.  Grate  lemon  rind. 
Mix  everthing  well.  Press  into  jars.  Cover  with 
parohment. 


EOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MISCELLANEOUS.     355 
SAVOURY    PUDDING. 

INGEEDIENTS. 

J  lb.  Breadcrumbs.  J  table-spoonful  Dried  Sage. 

2  Onions  (parboiled).  1  Egg. 

2  table-spoonfuls  Oatmeal.  i  pint  Milk. 

3  ozs.  Suet.  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  until  quite  soft.  Drain 
all  the  water  away  and  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible.  Chop 
the  onion  and  suet;  beat  the  bread  with  a  fork.  Add  all 
dry  ingredients  to  it,  and,  lastly,  the  beaten  egg  and  milk. 
Make  one  ounce  dripping  hot  in  a  tin,  turn  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  46  minutes.  Let  it 
stand  for  a  few  minutes,  then  cut  into  squares  and  serve 
with  gravy. 


VEGETABLE   MARROW   GOOSE. 

Peel  the  marrow.  Cut  off  end  and  scoop  out  inside. 
Parboil  2  onions.  Four  sage  leaves,  2  or  3  table-spoonfuls 
of  breadcrumbs.  Pinch  of  ground  ginger,  2  ozs.  grated 
cheese. 

Mince  the  onion,  add  to  crumbs,  cheese  and  sage,  then 
pepper,  salt  and  ginger.  Stuff  the  marrow  with  this 
Put  on  top;  bind  up  with  tape.  Put  into  a  pan  of  hot 
water  or  stock.  Simmer  half  an  hour.  Then  put  into 
flat  greased  dripping-pan.  Sprinkle  over  with  crumbs. 
Put  pats  of  dripping  on  top  and  bake  20  minutes  or  half 
an  hour.  If  pan  is  not  large  enough  to  simmer  the 
marrow  in,  then  it  may  be  put  in  a  pie-dish  with  water 
and  cooked  in  the  oven.  To  egg  before  crumbing  is  an 
improvement,  but  not  necessary.  Serve  with  some  gravy 
made  by  putting  flour  into  baking  tin.  Pour  stock  in 
and  boil. 


356     HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBT  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

WHITE   PUDDINGS. 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  lb.  Oatmeal.  Pudding  Skins, 

i  lb.  Suet.  Seasoning. 

1  or  2  Onions. 

Thoroughly  cleanse  skins  by  washing  in  salt  and  water, 
turning  outside  in,  rinsing  and  leaving  overnight  in  cold 
water.  Chop  fat,  add  to  oatmeal  with  seasoning  and 
grated  onion  if  liked.  Quickly  fill  the  skins  about  two- 
thirds  full,  tie  in  circles,  prick.  Boil  in  boiling  water 
about  2  hours.     Serve  hot. 

BLACK   PUDDINGS    (SCOTCH   METHOD). 

Take  1  qjiart  of  bullock's  or  sheep's  blood,  and  mix  with 
it  half  a  pound  of  oatmeal.  Add  half  a  pound  of  finely- 
minced  suet,  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  white  pepper,  a 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  mint.  Warm  half  a  pint  of  skimmed  milk,  add 
and  mix  thoroughly;  turn  the  sausage  skins  inside  out, 
and  wash  them  well  in  warm  water  and  salt,  then  rinse 
them  well  in  cold  water,  and  fill  three  parts  full  with  the 
mixture.  Tie  the  two  ends  together;  put  them  in  hot 
water,  and  boil  slowly  for  20  minutes.  While  they  are 
boiling,  prick  with  a  pin  to  let  the  air  escape.  Lay  them 
on  a  cloth  to  dry,  and  hang  up  for  use.  To  warm,  lay 
them  in  boiling  water  in  a  deep  saucepan,  and  then  toast 
before  the  fire  or  on  a  gridiron. 

Probable  cost,  4d.  per  lb. 

PAN   HAGGIS. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  lb.  Suet.  f  teaspoonful  Salt. 

i  lb.  Oatmeal.  ,  §  pint  Milk. 

2  ozs.  Currants.  A  little  Pepper. 

Chop  the  suet  and  melt  it  in  the  saucepan;  add  the 
oatmeal  and  the  well-cleaned  currants  and  stir  over  the 


HOUSEHOLD  COOKEBY  —  MISCELLANEOUS.     357 

i5re  10  minutes';  then  add  the  milk,  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
on  the  lid  and  let  it  simmer  very  slowly  for  10  minutes 
longer,  till  it  has  absorbed  all  the  milk.  Press  it  all  into 
a  small  bowl,  turn  it  neatly  on  a  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 


POTATO   STEW. 

INGREDIENTS. 

IJ  lbs.  Potatoes.  i  teacupful  Water. 

2  Onions.  4  teacupful  Milk. 

1  dessert- spoonful  sweet  1  table-spoonful  grated 

Dripping.  Cheese. 

I  teaspoonful  Salt.  1  dessert-spoonful  chopped 
i  teaspoonful  Pepper.  Parsley. 

Pare  thinly,  wash  and  slice  potatoes,  chop  the  onions 
and  parsley;  put  some  potatoes  in  the  bottom  of  a 
saucepan,  some  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  and  repeat  until 
all  are  used  up.  Pour  in  the  water  and  stew  gently  for 
i  hour;  add  the  milk,  stew  about  20  minutes  longer,  till 
all  is  sufficiently  cooked.  Turn  out  neatly  on  a  dish, 
sprinkle  the  cheese  over,  and  brown  before  the  fire. 
Sprinkle  with  parsley. 


STUFFED   CABBAGE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  Cabbage.  Seasoning. 

3  Sausages.  i  pint  Brown  Sauce. 

2  table-spoonfuls 
Breadcrumbs. 

Blanch  the  cabbage,  cut  out  the  centre  stalk  of  each 
leaf.  Skin  the  sausages  and  mix  with  breadcrumbs  and 
seasoning;  form  into  little  rolls.  Lay  a  roll  on  each  leaf. 
Roll  into  little  bundles  and  tie  with  string.  Cook  in 
blown  sauce  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove 
string;  serve  hot  with  sauce  strained  over. 


358      HOUSEMOLD  COOKEBY  —  MISCELLANEOUS. 

OATMEAL   SAUSAGES. 

INGEEDIENTSl 

4  ozs.  Oatmeal.  1  oz.  chopped  Onions. 

}  pint  Water.  Salt,  Pepper,  Nutmeg. 

2  ozS.  Fat  Little  Cold  Meat,  mixed 

(if  liked). 
Thin  Batter  to  coat:  — 

Maize,  Crumbs,  Breadcrumbs  or  Raspings. 
Hot  Fat  to  Pry.     Mashed  Potatoes. 

Cook  onion  in  fat  for  a  little,  then  add  the  water  and 
bring  to  boiling  point.  Sprinkle  in  the  oatmeal  and  stir 
till  again  boiling.  Cook  with  lid  on  for  about  10  to  15 
minutes.  Season  nicely,  add  chopped  meat.  Spread  on 
a  plate  and  allow  to  cool.  Roll  into  balls,  and  then  into 
sausage  shapes.  Coat  with  batter  and  crumbs.  Fry  in 
hot  fat.  Serve  on  hot  dish  with  mashed  potatoes,  brown 
sauce  or  tomato  sauce. 


SAVOURY   MACARONI. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i  piut  Milk.  Fpw  Raspings. 

2  fresh  Tomatoes.  J  lb.  Boiled  Macaroni. 

2  ozs.  Margarine.  1  Onion,  finely  chopped. 

2  ozs.  Breadcrumbs.  ,         1  table-spoonful  chopped 
2  ozs.  Grated  Cheese  (If  Parsley, 

liked).  Salt  and  Pepper. 

Place  all  in  a  pie-dish  in  layers,  tomatoes  sliced  and 
peeled,  butter  placed  in  layers  in  pats.  Place  a  few 
raspings  on  top  and  cook  in  hot  oven  half  an  hour. 


INDEX. 


359 


INDEX. 


Adelaide  Cakes  -      271 

Aigrettes  of  Anchovy  222 

Alexandra  Soup  43 

Almonds,  Devilled  -      347 

Almond  Cream        -  214 

„         Filling  299 

„        Horseshoes  294 

Icing  298 

„        Macaroons  293 

„        Potatoes  159 

„        Eing  Cakes  294 

„        Soup  37 

Anchovy  Aigrettes  -  222 

„         Baskets    -  226 

„         Biscuits  h,  la 

Cr6me  227 

„         Canapees  225 

„         Sauce       -  237 

Apple  Amber  Pudding  191 

„      Balls     -  181 

„      Charlotte  194 

„      and  Damson  Jelly      322 

„      Fritters  200 

„      Paste  322 

„      Salad  165 

„      Sauce  239 

„       Snow  204 

„      Water  ■       328 

Apples,  Ginger  323 

,,       Stewed  178 

Apricot  Creams       -  215 

„       Jam  (Dried)  317 

„       Eleur  of  205 

Arrowroot  Pudding  332 1 

„          Sauce  249 

Artichokes — Globe,  Boiled    138 

Artichokes — Jerusalem — 

Baked  148 

Braised  -      152 

Buttered  '  151 

Steamed       -  142 

Stewed  146 


PAGE 

Artichoke  Soup  36 

Asparagus,  Steamed       -      142 

Aspic  Jelly  221 

Aubergines,  or  Egg  Plant — 

StufEed-Baked  148 

Stuffed-Braised  153 

Steamed  141 

Stewed '  146 

Average  Proportions — 

Baking,  Plain  256 

Broths  29 

Creams  213 

Fruits,  Stewed  178 

Jellies  -      210 

Meat  Soups  -        27 

„  (Nondescript)  31 

Milk  Moulds  170 

„      Puddings  169 

Vegetable  Soups  (Dried)     23 


(Nondescript) 

26 

a 

(Fresh,  Starchy)  23 

f* 

(Fresh,  Watery) 

23 

Souffles 

186 

B 

Baba  au 

Rhum 

201 

Bachelor 

Cake 

281 

Bacon,  Curled 

353 

Bacon  and  Eggs 

341 

Baking  Powder 

342 

Bananas, 

Chartreuse  of 

216 

Banana 

Paste 

323 

Banbury  Cake  273 
Barley,  Plain  Boiled 

(Sweet)  170 

Barley  Pudding  -       189 

Barley  Water  328 

Batter— Coating  (1)  253,  344 

„         (2)  254 

„       Pancake  182 

„       Pudding  (Steamed)  183 

Beans  and  Bacon  344 


360 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Beans,  Broad — Steamed 

139 

Bone  Stock 

22 

,,             Baked     - 

148 

Bonne  Femme  Soup 

42 

Beans,  French — Steamed 

144 

Bottling 

305 

„               Stewed 

148 

First  Method 

307 

Beans,  Haricot,  Stewed 

148 

Second  Method 

307 

Bearnaise  Sauce 

247 

Third  Method 

307 

Bechamel  Sauce 

241 

Eules 

306 

Beef  Essence 

326 

Table 

305 

„    Olives 

103 

Peas 

308 

„    Pressed 

99 

Salmon 

309 

„    Boasted 

75 

Tomatoes 

308 

„    Sandwiches   (Eaw) 

327 

Brain  Cakes 

97 

„    Spiced  (Wet) 

809 

Brain 

Sauce 

237 

„         „       (Dry) 

309 

Braise — Foundation 

110 

„    Tea   (Slow  Way) 

325 

Brandy  Snaps 

293 

„      „      (Quick  Way)  - 

325 

Brawn 

- 

100 

„      „     (Eaw) 

325 

Bread 

—Baking  Powder 

257 

„      „      Custard 

329 

Breadberry 

331 

Beetroot — Baked 

148 

Bread 

- 

255 

„          BoUed 

139 

fj 

Brown 

255 

•      „           Steamed 

143 

iJ 

Buttermilk 

257 

„           Pickled 

311 

ft 

and  Butter" 

.  „           Soup 

40 

Pudding 

.172 

Ben  Rhydding  Pudding 

202  ' 

)f 

and  Butter 

Bigarade  Sauce  (for 

Pudding  (Steamed)  172 

Wild  Duck) 

246 

^^ 

Date  and  Walnut 

257 

Birds'  Nests 

349 

Jt 

Dinner  Eolls 

265 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding 

170 

J) 

French  (No.  1)  - 

265 

Biscuits 

288 

}J 

French    (No.   2) 

264 

Anchovy  k  la-  Cr6me 

227 

17 

Grisini                ' 

267 

Brandy  Snaps 

293 

JJ 

Patties 

129 

Cheese  and  Celery 

228 

ft 

Easpings 

342 

Chocolate 

289 

ft 

Sally  Lunn 

266 

Ooooanut  Pyramids 

295 

JJ 

Sauce                  239 

,  248 

Ginger 

289 

Breakfast  EoUs 

269 

Hunter's  Nuts 

290 

Broth, 

Invalid  Mutton 

326 

Imperial 

289 

,^ 

Scotch 

29 

Jumble 

290 

» 

Sheep's  Head      - 

30 

Lancashire  Nuts 

272 

Brown  Cal^e 

272 

Eemou 

288 

)> 

Fish  Sauce 

239 

Macaroons 

293 

jf 

Flour 

343 

Oatmeal 

262 

Pudding  (Plain)  - 

175 

Parkins 

292 

f} 

Pudding  (Rich) 

199 

Sice     - 

290 

M 

Sauce 

238 

Black  Puddings 

356 

)t 

Scones 

259 

Black  Currant  Jelly 

320 

i) 

Soup 

27 

Black  Currant  Jam 

317 

„ 

Stew 

79 

Blanquette  of  Veal 

110 

» 

Steiw  of  Babbit 

107 

INDEX. 


361 


PAGE 

Cakes — 

PAGE 

Brown  Stock,  Plain 

32 

Brandy  Snaps 

293 

„      Vegetable  Soup  (1) 

26 

Brown 

272 

„      Vegetable  Soup  (2) 

44 

Chocolate     - 

285 

Browned  Crumbs 

347 

Chocolate  (Small) 

271 

Browning 

344 

Chocolate  Eclairs 

276 

Brussels  Sprouts,  Baked 

148 

Cinnamon 

271 

„              „         Purge 

39 

Coburg 

292 

„              „         Steamed 

145 

Coeoanut 

284 

„             „         Stewed 

147 

Coeoanut  Pyramids 

295 

Buns — 

Cream  Buns 

275 

Chelsea 

266 

Dundee 

284 

Coeoanut 

261' 

Eccles 

273 

CoflEee 

269 

Fruit 

292 

Cream 

275 

Fruit  (Large) 

282 

Hot  Cross 

266 

Galette 

269 

London 

260 

Genoese  Baskets 

276 

Easpberry 

261 

Genoese  Pastry 

276 

Eoek 

260 

Gingerbread 

262 

Buttered   Eggs  . 

351 

(Damp) 

283 

Butter,  to  Clarify 

353 

(Good) 

282 

„       Cases 

131 

„      .       (Spongy) 

283 

„       Chocolate  Icing 

296 

Ground  Rice  Cheese 

274 

„       Maitre  D 'Hotel 

114 

Hunter's  Nuts 

290 

„       Melted  Sauce 

238 

Jam  Sandwich 

277 

„        Oiled  or  Drawer 

249 

Lancashire  Nuts 

272 

;,       Sauce 

241 

Lemon  Curd  Clreese 

273 

Louise 

272 

c 

Lunch 

281 

Cabbage,  Steamed 

143 

Macaroon  Cheese 

275 

„         Red,  Steamed 

143 

Macaroon 

293 

„         Baked 

148 

Madeira 

284 

„         Buttered 

152 

Maserines 

291 

„  /      Stewed             - 

147 

Mocha 

278 

„          (Stuffed) 

Napoleon 

291 

Braised 

153 

Orange 

280 

„         Red,  Pickled 

312 

Orange  Cream  Tartlets 

274 

„         Rice  and 

Pastry  Sandwiches 

275 

Poached  Eggs 

352 

Plum 

286 

„         Stuffed 

147 

Queen 

270 

Cabinet  Pudding  (Plain) 

195 

Raisin 

286 

„        (Superior) 

196 

Rice             -            t 

285 

Cakes — 

Rice   (Small)  . 

270 

Adelaide 

271 

Russian  Sandwich 

279 

Almond  Horse  Shoes 

294 

Scotch  Currant  Bun    - 

287 

Almond  Macaroons   • 

293 

Scotch  Pound 

286 

Almond  Ring  Cakes 

294 

Shortbread 

263 

Bachelor 

281 

Shrewsbury 

288 

Banbury 

273 

Simnel 

287 

362 


INDEX. 


Cakes — 

PAGE 

PAGE 

Sponge 

278 

Chandfroid  White  Sauce 

242 

St.  George's  HaU 

282 

Cheese 

Aigrettes 

222 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 

280 

tf 

D  'ATtois 

226 

Swiss  EoU 

264 

and  Celery  Biscuits 

228 

Swiss  RoU  (Rich) 

277 

jy 

Cream  Sandwiches 

231 

Tantallon     - 

293 

jt 

Custard 

348 

Walnut  (a)' 

279 

t> 

Cutlets 

349 

Walnut  (b) 

279 

ft 

Eggs 

850 

Welsh  Cheese 

274 

tj 

Pastry 

227 

White 

283 

jt 

Potatoes 

345 

White,  PlaJTi 

263 

tl 

Pudding             346, 

348 

Yorkshire  Tea 

256 

tt 

Pyramids 

228 

Yule 

267 

t> 

and  Macaroni 

345 

Calf's  Head 

98 

jl 

Salad 

164 

Calf's  Foot  JeUy 

211 

Sandwiches 

231 

Caper  Sauce 

237 

jf 

Souffle  or  Fonden 

225 

Caramel  Custards 

199 

Jl 

Souffle  (Cold)     - 

229 

Caramel  Walnuts 

339 

tt 

Straws 

227 

Carrot  Soup 

24 

Chelsea  Buns  . 

266 

Carrots,  Baked 

148 

Cherry  Pudding 

196 

„        Steamed 

143 

Chestnuts — ^Preparation 

157 

„        Stewed 

147 

jt 

Plain 

157 

Casserole  of  Fowl 

125 

Chestnut  Curry 

157 

Meat 

132 

Chestnut  Soup 

37 

„           ^  Babbit 

126 

Chicken  Creams 

130 

Cassolettes  o'f  Sweetbread 

130 

„ 

Fricassee 

133 

Castle  Puddings 

198 

» 

Galantine  of 

98 

Cauliflower  and   Tomato 

,j 

Jelly 

326 

Souffl6 

151 

„ 

Kromeskies 

131 

Cauliflower,  Baked 

148 

It 

Panada 

332 

„            Steamed 

143 

Jl 

Rissoles 

128 

„            au  Gratin 

150 

}, 

Salad 

164 

„    ,        in  Batter 

158 

J, 

Victoria 

133 

„            Soup 

38 

Jl 

Sandwiches 

231 

Celery,  Baked 

148 

■  11 

and  Chutney 

„       Braised 

154 

Sandwiches    - 

231 

„        au  Gratin 

150 

jj 

Cream  Soup 

41 

„       Pried 

159 

Chicory,  Boiled 

139 

„       Steamed 

144 

Chocolate  Biscuits 

289 

„       Stewed 

147 

Butter  Icing  - 

296 

„       Soup 

36 

tl 

Cake 

285 

Celeriae,  Steamed 

144 

Jl 

Cakes 

271 

Celeriao,  Stewed 

146 

Curds 

203 

Chartreuse  of  Bananas 

216 

„ 

Eclairs 

276 

Chartreuse  of  Orange 

216 

Jl 

Pudding 

188 

Charlotte  Russe 

214 

It 

SoufElfi 

187 

Chasseur  Sauce  (for 

tj 

Water  Icing  - 

296 

Venison) 

246 

Chop, 

Grilled 

84 

INDEX. 


363 


PAGE 

Chop,  Minced  327 

Choux''Paatry  -      304 

Chutney  313 

Claret  Jelly  211 

Clarified  Dripping  843 

Clarified  Butter  353 

Clear  Marmalade  316 

Clear  Soup  33 

Clear   Stock  -        S3 

Coating  Batter  (1)        253,  344 

'  Coating  Batter  (2)  254 

Coburg  Cakes  292 

Cocoa  346 

Cocoanut  Buns  260 

„        Cake  284 

lee  336 

„        Pudding  187 

„         Pyramids  295 

„         Tablet  336 

C9cktail,  Liver  353 

Cocktail,  Liver  and 

Orajige  Juice  353 

Cod,  Dressed  57 

„      Grilled  55 

„      Stuffed  and  Dressed       58 

„      Steak,  Fried  53 

„      Steak,   Stuffed'  58 

Coffee  (A)  and  (B)  347 

„       Buns     -  269 

„      Custard  Sauce  249 

Colcannon  156 

Cold  Meat  Curry  132 

Cold  Meat  Mould  86 

Compete  of  Fruit  206 

Confectioner's  Custard 

Filling  298 

Conservative  Pudding  196 

Consomme  Colbert  34 

„          Julienne  34 

„          Eoyale  34 

Convent  Eggs          -  349 

Cooked  Dressing  (1)  168 

Cooked  Dressing  (2)  168 

Cornflour  Mould   (1)  171 

Cornflour  Mould   (2)  202 

Cornish  Pasties  90 

Cottage  Pudding  177 

Cow   Heel       -        -V  81 


PAGE 

Cow  Heel  Jelly  81 

Crab,  Dressed  70 

Cream  Cakes  or  Buns  275 

Creams,  Almond  214 

„         Caramel  214 

„         Chicken  130 

„        Chocolate  213 

„        Coffee  214 

„         Custard  214 

„        Fish          -  67 

„        Fruit  215 

„         Ginger       -  -       213 

„         Swiss  203 

Tapioca  203 

„         Vanilla  214 

„        Velvet       -  -      213 

„         Whole        -  213 

Cream  Ices  with  Jam  219 

Cream  Substitute  300 

Crecy  Soup  40 

Crgme  de  Menthe  Squares     338 

Croutes  k  la  Campagne  229 

„       de  Caboug  223 

„        au  Jambon  225 

„       of  Haddock  221 

„        of  Mushroom  22B 

Crumbs,  Browned  347 

Crumpets                  -  268 

Cucumber  Sandwiches  234 

Cucumber  Sauce  (Hot)  242 

Cucumber  (Stuffed)  Braised  154 

Curing  of  Hams  and 

Flitches  310 

Curled"  Bacon  353 

Currant  Pudding  173 

Curried  Eggs  353 

„        Lentils  155 

„       Veal  107 

Curry,  Chestnut  -      157 

„       Cold  Meat  132 

Sauce  -      246 

,,       Soup  43 

„       Vegetable  -      157 

Custard,  Baked  172 

„        Beef  Tea  329 

„        Confectioner  'a  298 

„        Steamed  171 

■„         Ice  (Cheap)  218 


364 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Custard  Ice  (Plain)  218 

„        Ice  (Rich)  -      218 

„         Sauce         -  240,  249 

Cutlets  in  Aspic  k  la 

Princesse  -       113 

Cutlets  k  la  Zingara  118 

„       Cheese  349 

„       Durham       -  128 

„       Egg             -  350 
„       Lentil  and  Cheese      351 

„        Mutton  114 

„       Nut  350 

„       Pork  116 

„        Reform  115 

„       Soubise  119 

Veal  il7 


Damson  Cheese 

323 

Damson  Jam 

318 

Date  and  Walnut  Loaf  - 

257 

DeyiUed   Almonds 

347 

Devonshire  Junket 

204 

Diablotines 

224 

Dinner  RoUs 

265 

Doughnuts — with  Yeast  - 

266 

Doughnuts — without  Yeast 

267 

Dried  Apricot  Jam 

317 

Dried  Vegetable  Soups 

25 

Dripping,  Clarified 

343 

Dropped  Scones. 

258 

Duck,  Wild  (Roast) 

137 

Duck,  Roasted 

94 

Dundee  Cake 

284 

Durham-  Cutlets 

128 

Dutch  Sauce 

243 

„       Stew 

78 

„       Sweetbreads 

106 

Eccles  Cakes           -  273 

Eclairs,  Chocolate  276 
Eggs,  Boiled  (Hard)      -      342 

„      Boiled   (Soft)  342 

„      Buttered       -  351 

„      Cheese           -  350 

„      Convent         -  349 


PAGE 

Eggs,  Curried  353 

„       Scotch  348 

Egg,  Cutlets  -       350 

,  „     FUp  330 

„     Poached  341 

„     Sauce  237 

„     Scrambled         ,  342 
„      and  Anchovy 

Sandwiches  232 

English  Salad  162 

English  Salad  Dressing  -      166 

Espagnole  Sauce  -       244. 

Everton   Toffee  334 

Exeter  Stew  79 


Farinaceous  Souffle  186 

Fat,  Rendered  343 

Farced  Omelet  185 

Feather  Icing  298 

Fig  Pudding  194 

„    Sauce  251 

,,     Tablet     -  336 
Fillings  for  Cakes — 

Almond                 -  -       299 
Confectioner's  Custard      298 

Cream  Substitute  300 

Orange  299 

Walnut  299 

Fish,  Baked  in  Milk  51 

„      Boiled            -  49 

„      (Salt)  Boiled  -         50 
„      Choice  and 

Preparation  -        49 

„      Curry  66 

„      in  Batter  54,  64 

„     in  Custard  67 

„     Cakes  (No.-l)  56,  64 

„      Cakes  (No.  2)  64 

„      Cream  67 

„      Croquettes     -  65 

„     Cutlets  65 

„      Grilled  55 

„     Mould  59,  69 

„     Pastry  -         69 

„     Pie         -  55 

„     Pudding  -         55 

„     Salad     -  163 


INDEX. 


365 


PAGE 

Fish,  Sauce       -  238 

„  Sauce  (Brown)  239 

„     Scalloped       -  65 

„     Souffle  67 

„      Soup  (Plain)  23 

„     Soup      -        -  35 

„     Steamed                 -  53 

„      Stock  22 

„      Stewed           -  50 

„     Filleted,  Steamed  327 

Flaky  Pastry  303 

Fleur  of  Apricots  205 

Flitches,  Curing  of          -  310 

Flour,  Boiled                   -  347 

Flour,  Brown  343 

Fondant  Coating  296 

Fondant   Icing  297 

Forcemeat,  Chestnut  253 

„  Sage  and  Onion 

StuflSng       77,  252 
„            Turkey  and 

Fowl  Stuffing  253 

„           Veal            252,  344 

Foundation,  Braise  110 

Foundation  White  Sauce  237 

Fowl,  Boiled                    -  96 

„       Boned  95 

„      Casserole  125 

„      Roasted         -  93 

Freezing  Without  Ice  217 

French  Beans                 144,  148 

„         Bread  (No.  1)  265 

„        Bread  (No.  2)  264 

„        Salad  Dressing  166 

„        Salad          -  161 

Fresh  Meat,  Boiled  72 

Fricandeau  of  Veal  111 

Fricassee  of  Chicken  133 

Fruit  Cake              -  282 

„       Pudding,  Boiled  175 

„      Pudding,  Cold      -  180 

„      Salad  164 

„      Stewed                   -  178 

„      Tart                     181,  190 

„      Cakes            -  292 

„      and  Cream  Ice  219 

„      Jelly  212 

„      Sandwiches  235 


Fruit  Tart  (No.  1) 

„      Tart  (]Sfo.  2) 

Vol  au  Vent 


PAGE 

181 
180 
205 


Galantine  of  Chicken  98 

Galantine  of  Veal  99 

Galette  269 

Game  Pie  (a)         -  123 

Game  Pie  (b)  124 

Game  Seasons  134 

Garnish,  Eeform  -       115 
General  Rules — 
Bottling  Fruit  and 

Vegetables  306 
Choice  and  Preparation 

of  Fish  49 

For  Freezing  217 

Jams  and  Jellies  314 

Omelet  Making  181 

Soup  Making  21 

Stock  Making      -  21 

Genoese   Baskets  276 

Genoese  Pastry  -       276 

Genoese  Pastry,  Iced  276 

Gherkin  and  Sardine 

Sandwiches  232 

Giblet  Soup  28 

Ginger   Biscuits  289 

Gingerbread  262 

„            (Damp)  283 

„            (Good)  282 

(Spongy)  283 

Ginger  Apples        -  -      323 

Ginger  Cream  213 

„       Sandwiches  -      236 

„        Syrup          -  324 

Glaze   (1)                 -  251 

Glaze  (2)  252 

Gooseberry  Fool  204 

„            Jam  31S 

„            Sauce  248 

Grape  Fruit  Marmalade       317 

Gratin  Sauce  -       245 

Gravy  Soup             -  44 

Grenadines  of  Veal  -      111 

Green  Peas,  Boiled  -      140 


366 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Green  Peas,  Steamed 

145 

Hough,  Potted 

74 

Green  P^as  Marrowfat 

Hough  and  Vegetables, 

(Boiled) 

139 

Stewed     - 

80 

Green  Pea  Pur^e 

158 

Huitres  h  la  Tzar 

224 

Green  Pea  Pur^e  Soup 

38 

Hunter's  Nuts 

290 

Grilled  Chops          -     '   - 

84' 

„       Kidneys 

114 

I 

„       Kippered  Herring 

55 

„       Steak 

113 

Ice,  Cocoanut 

336 

Grisini  Bread 

267 

Ices,  Plain 

218 

Ground  Eiee  Cheese  Cakes 

274 

„     Cream,  Chocolate 

219 

Ground  Bice  Pudding 

„      Cream,  With  Jam  - 

219 

Steamed 

176 

„      Cream  and  Fruit 

219 

Grouse   (Boast) 

136 

„     Custard,  Cheap 

218 

Gruel 

329 

„     Custard,  Plain 

218 

Guide  as  to  Oven  Heat 

„     Custard,  Bici 

218 

for  Large  Cakes 

281 

„     Water,  Lemoii 

220 

„     Water,  Baspberry  - 

220 

H 

„     Water,  Jam 

220 

Icing,  Almond 

298 

Haddock,  Baked  Stuffed 

51 

„      Chocolate  Butter  - 

296 

„         Crofltes 

221 

„      Chocolate,  Water 

296 

„         Dressed 

57 

„      Feather 

298 

Haggis 

74 

„       Fondant 

297 

Ham,  To  Bake 

118 

„       Mountain 

298 

Ham,  To  Boil 

73 

„       Orange  Water 

295 

Handy  Measures 

11 

„      Boya 

296 

Hard  Sauce 

251 

„       Transparent 

297 

Hare,  Jugged 

105 

„      Water 

295 

Hare,  Soup 

46 

Imitation  Hare  Soup 

45 

Haricot  of  Mutton 

101 

Imperial  Biscuits 

289 

Hash 

85 

Invalid  JeUy  , 

331 

Head,  Potted 

73 

Invalid  Mutton  Broth 

326 

Helensburgh  Toffee 

335 

Irish  Moss  Jelly 

330 

Herring,  Baked  or  Potted 

52 

Irish  Stew 

77 

„        Fried 

54 

„        Grilled  Fresh 

55 

J 

„         Grilled  Kippered 
„        Boe  Prittei-3     - 

55 

223 

Jam  Layer  Pudding 

174 

„        Stuffed 

52 

„    Sandwich  (1) 

277 

HoUandaise  Sauce 

247 

„     Sandwich  (2) 

272 

HoUandaise   Soup 

39 

„    Sauce 

240 

Horse  Eadish  Sauce  (Hot) 

242 

„     Turnovers 

182 

Horse  Eadish  Sauce  (Cold) 

247 

Jams  and  Jellies,  Bules 

314 

Hotch  Potch 

30 

Jam,  Black  Currant       - 

317 

Hot  Cross  Buns 

266 

„     Dried  Apricot 

317 

„    Pot 

91 

„     Damson   and  Plum 

318 

„    Water  Crust 

304 

„     Clear   Marmalade 

316 

INDEX. 


367 


PAGE 


Jam,  Grape  Fiuit 
Marmalade 
„     Thick  Marmalade 
„      Gooseberry 
„      Raspberry 
„      Khubarb 
„     Strawberry 
„     Rhubarb  and  Ginger    319 
„     Vegetable   Marrow 

(Pulped)   - 
„     Vegetable  Marrow 
(Whole)     - 
Jelly,  Apple  and  Damson 
„      Aspic 
„      Black  Currant 
„       Red  Currant  (A) 
„       Red  Currant 

(Uncooked)   (B) 
„      Red  Currant 

(Uncooked)   (C) 
„      Calf's  Foot 
„      Chicken 
„      Claret 
Fruit 
„       Invalid 
„       Irish  Moss 
„     .  Lemon 

„      Macedoine  of  Fruit 
„       Marble 
„      Orange 
„      Stanhope 
„       Tomato    (Little) 
„      Wine 
Jeu  Chutney 
Jugged  Hare 
Jumble  Biscuits 


317 
316 
318 
319 
319 
318 


320 

320 
322 
221 
320 
321 

321 

322 
211 
326 
211 
212 
331 
330 
210 
212 
213 
208 
211 
230 
211 
314 
105 
290 


K 

Kale,  Steamed  144 

Kale,  Stewed  147 

Kedgeree  i  56,  65 

Kidneys,  Grilled      -  114 

„         Stewed  102 

„         and  Bacon  117 

„         Soup        -  44 

Kohl  Rabi,  Steamed  144 

Kromeskies  of  Chicken  -      ISl 


PAGE 

L 

Lamb,  Forequarter  of  93 

Lamb  or  Mutton,  Roasted  76 

Lamb's  Head,  Dressed  97 

Lancashire  Nuts  272 

Larded  Pigeons  112 

Larded  Sweetbreads  112 

Lax  Sandwiches  233 

Leeks,  Baked  148 

„       Steamed  144 

„       Stewed  147 

„       au  Gratin  150 

Leicester  Pudding  198 

Lemonade        -  328 

Lemon  Biscuits  288 

Curd  323 

Curd  Cakes  273 

Jelly  210 

Pie  -       193 

Pudding  193 

Sago  179 

Sauce  -      250 

Souffle  208 

Sponge  206 

Syrup  324 

Water  Ice  220 

Lentils,  Carried  155 

Lentil  and  Cheese  Outlets  351 

Lentil  Soup             -  25 

Lettuce  Salad  161 

Lettuce  Sandwiches  234 

Linseed  Tea            -  330 

Liver  and  Bacon  Fried  82 

Liver  and  Bacon  Stewed  80 

Liver  Cocktail         -  -      353 

Liver  h,  la  Francaise  116 

Lobster  Bisque  35 

Lobster  Sauce  243 

London   Buns  260 ' 

Louise  Cakes           -  272 

Louise  Pudding  198 

Lunch  Cake    -  281 

M 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  -       345 

„          £l  la  Milanaise  852 

&  la  Tomate  352 


S68 


INDEX. 


t 

PAGE 

PAGB 

Maearoni  Savoury 

358 

Mince  Boll 

106 

Macaroon  Oheese  Cakes 

275 

Minced  Chop 

327 

Macaroons 

293 

Mincemeat 

354 

Magedoine  of  Fruit  Jelly 

212 

Mincemeat,  Plain 

354 

Mackerel,  Boiled 

50 

Mint  Sauce 

240 

Mackerel,  Grilled 

55 

Mixed  Fruit  Salad 

167 

Madeira  Cake 

284 

Mocha  Cake 

278 

Madeira  Pudding 

192 

Mocha  Pudding 

209 

Madras  Sandwiches 

233 

Mock  Kidney  Soup 

27 

Maitre  D  'Hotel  Butter 

114 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 

47 

Maitre  D 'Hotel  Sauce 

243 

Molasses 

334 

Malvern  Pudding 

180 

Mountain  Icing 

298 

Manchester  Pudding 

191 

Muffins 

268 

Marble  JeUy 

213 

Mullitagawny  Soup 

48 

Marmalade,  Clear 

316 

Mushrooms,  Baked 

150 

Grape  Fruit 

317 

„             Croutes 

223 

„           Thick 

316 

Pickled 

311 

,,           Pudding 

197 

„            Stewed 

158 

Marrow,  Baked 

148 

Mustard  Sauce 

238 

„         Braised    - 

153 

Mutton  Outlets 

114 

„          Steamed 

144 

„               Reform 

115 

„         Stewed 

146 

S,  la 

Marshmallows 

337 

Zingara 

118 

Marzipan 

339 

Mutton,  Haricot 

101 

Maserines 

291 

„        Boast,  Frozen 

76 

Mashed  Potatoes 

154 

„        Boast,   Pot 

76 

Mashed   Turnips 

154 

„         Boast,  Saddle  of 

91 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

167 

„         Stuffed  Shoulder 

92 

„           of  Salmon    - 

70 

„           Sauce 

248 

N 

Measures,  Handy 

11 

Meat,  Boiled  Fresh 

72 

Napoleon  Cakes 

291 

„      Boiled  Salt 

72 

Norv^gienne,  Eognons     - 

229 

„       Cakes 

87 

Notes  on  Scullery  Work 

12 

„      Casserole 

132 

Nouille  Pastry 

304 

„       Croquettes 

128 

Nut  Outlets 

350 

„      Mince  EoU 

106 

„       Mould 

86 

o 

„      Pastry 

87 

Oatcakes 

261 

,,      Patties 

126 

Oatmeal  Biscuits 

262 

,,      Pie 

90 

Oatmeal  Sausages 

358 

„      Potted 

132 

Oeufs,  St.  Malo 

230 

„      Pudding,  Boiled 

88 

Oiled  or  Drawn  Butter 

Melt  Soup 

28 

Sauce 

249 

Meringues 

209 

Omelet,  Farced 

185 

Milk  Toast 

333 

„        Bum 

185 

Mince  of  Cold  Meat 

85 

„        Savoury 

184 

„       CoUops 

82 

„        SoufflS 

185 

INDEX. 


369 


Omelet,  Sweet 

PAGE 

185 

Pastry,  Eich   Short   Crust 

PAGE 

302 

Onions,  Boiled 

139 

Kough  Puff 

301 

„       Pickled ' 

3ir 

„       Sandwiches 

275 

„       Steamed 

145 

„          Short  Crust 

301 

„        Stewed 

147 

■„       Spiced  Short  Crust 

303 

„       au  Grratin 

150 

„        Suet 

301 

„       Stuffed 

87 

„        Syrup 

181 

Onion,  Sauce 

238 

Patties,  Bread    ' 

129 

Orange  Cake 

280 

„      .Meat 

126 

„       Chartreuse 

216 

„          Oyster 

68 

„       Cream  Tartlets 

274 

Pea,    Green,  Pur6e 

158 

„       Jelly 

208 

Peas,  Green,  Boiled 

140 

„        Juice    and    Liver 

„       Green,    Steamed 

145 

(Socktail 

353 

„       Marrow  fat.  Boiled 

139 

„        Pudding,  Steamed 

198 

„    ,  Bottled 

308 

„       Salad 

165 

„      Pudding 

155 

„       Sauce 

250 

Pectin,  Test  for 

315 

„       Water  Icing 

295 

Pheasant,  Roast 

136 

Oxtail  Soup 

47 

Pheasant  Salmi 

108 

Oxtail,  Stewed 

104 

Pickles,   Sweet 

313 

Oyster  Patties 

68 

Pickled  Beef,  Spiced  (Wet) 

309 

Oyster   Sauce 

243 

„        Beef,  Spiced  (Dry) 

309 

Oysters,  Scalloped 

66 

„       Beetroot 

311 

•„        Mushrooms 

311 

P 

„        Onions 

311 

„       Bed  Cabbage 

312 

Palermo  Soup 

42 

„       Tongue  (Wet) 

310 

Palestine   Soup 

36 

„        Tongue  (Dry) 

310 

Canada  or  Panard         101 

254 

„        "Vegetables 

310 

Panada  Chicken 

332 

„    -^  Walnuts 

312 

Pancakes 

182 

Pie,  Fish 

55 

Pan  Haggis 

356 

„     Game  (a) 

123 

Parkins 

292 

„     Game  (b) 

124 

Parsley,  Pried 

161 

„     Lemon     - 

193 

„       Sauce 

238 

„     Meat 

90 

Parsnips,  Baked 

148 

„     Pigeon 

122 

,,       Steamed 

145 

„    Babbit 

121 

„       Stewed 

148 

„    Raised  Pork 

122 

Partridges   (Boast) 

136 

„     Boman 

127 

Pastry   Cheese 

227 

^,     Bu'ssian 

126 

„        Ghoux 

304 

„     Sea 

89 

„        Flaky 

303 

„     Sheep's  Head 

88 

„        Hot  Water 

304 

„     Shepherd's 

85 

„       Meat 

87 

„     Steak  and  Kidnej' 

120 

„       Nouille           —    - 

304 

„     Veal  and  Ham 

121 

„       Potato  (1  and  2) 

302 

„    Vegetable                    '  155 

„        Puff 

303 

Pigeon  Pie 

122 

„       Raised  Pie  Crust 

304 

Pigeons,  Larded 

112 

2A 


370 


INDEX. 


PA0B 

Pigeons,   Boast  95 

„         Stewed  108 

Pineapple  Sponge  207 

Plquante  Sauce  -       245 

Plaice,  Baked  Fillets  of        52 

Fried   Fillets  of        63 

„-     Fried  54 

„       a  la  Maitre  D'Hotel     59 

Plain  Custard  lee  218 

„       Ices  -218 

„        Mincemeat  354 

Pluck   Soup  28 

Plum  Cake  286 

„      Jam  318 

„     Pudding  195- 

„     Pudding    (Plain)  177 

Poached  Egg  341 

Poor  Man's  Goose  91 

Pork  Cutlets  116 

Pork  Boast  93 

Porridge                 ,  -  341 

Portuguese  Bars  200 

Pot   Boast  76 

Potato  Border  115 

„       Cases     -  131 

„       Chips   (a)  160 

„        Chips    (b)  160 

„       Croquettes  -       159 

„       Pastry,  (1  and  2)       302 

„       Puree   Soup  -         37 

„        Ribbons  160 

Salad  162 

„        Scones  259 

„      Soup  25 

„       Stew  357 

„       Straws  160 

Potatoes,  Almond  -       159 

„         Baked  159 

„         Boiled  140 

„          Cheese  345 

„           Fried  159 

„         Mashed  154 

„         Boast  154 

,  „         Steamed  145 

„         Stewed  148 

„         Stuffed  80 

„  (New)   Buttered     152 

Potted   Head  73 


PAGE 

Potted  Herring       -  52 

„        Hough  74 

.•      „        Meat  132 

„        Shrimps  71 

Preserves — 

Apple  and  Damson  Jelly  322 

Apple   Paste  3^2 

Apriaot  (Dried)  Jam  317 

-Black  Currant  Jam  317 

Black  Currant  Jelly  320 

Gooseberry  Jam  318 

Marmalade,,  dear  316 

Marmalade,  Grape  Fruit  317 

Marmalade,  Thick  316 

Plum  or  Damson  Jam  318 
Easpberry  or  Loganberry 

Jam                    -        -  319 
Bed    Currant   Jelly,    A 

and  B  321 

Bed  Currant  Jelly,  C  322 

Ehubarb   Jam      -  319 

Bhubarb  and  Ginger  319 

Strawberry    Jam,  318 
Vegetable  Marrow  Jam 

(Pulped)  320 
Vegetable  Marrow  Jam 

(Whole)  320 

Pressea  Beef  99 

Prune  Mould  207' 

Prune    Sandwiches  235 

Prunes    Stewed  178 

Pudding,  Apple  Amber  191 

„         Apple  Charlotte  194 

„         Apple   Fritters  200 

,,          Arrowroot  332 

„         Baba  au  Bhum  201 

„         Barley,  Plain 

Boiled  189 

„         Barley  (Sweet)  170 

„         Batter,  Steamed  ISP. 

„         Ben    Ehydding  202 

,,  Bird's  Nest  -  170 
„  Bread  and  Butter  172 
„         Bread  and  Butter 

Steamed  172 

„         Brown    (Plain)  175 

„          Brown   (Eieh)  199 

„         Cabinet,  Plain  195 


INDEX. 


371 


Pudding,  Cabinet,  Superior  196 

„  Caramel  Custards  199 

„  Castle  198 

„  Cheese             346,  348 

„  Cherry               -  196 

„  Chocolate  (Baked)  188 

„  Chocolate 

(Steamed)  199 

„  Coeoanut  187 

„  Conservative  196 

„  Cornflour  Mould 

(No.  1)  ,        -  171 

„  Cornflour  Mould 

'      (No.  2)  202 

„  Cottage  177 

„  Currant  173 

„  Currant  (Plain)  173 

„  Custard  (Steamed)  171 

„  Custard  (Baked)  172 

„  Fig           -  194 

„  Fish  55 

„  Fruit   (Boiled)  175 

„  Fruit    (Cold)  180 

„  Jam  Layer  174 

„  Leicester  198 

„  Lemon  193 

„  Lemon  Sago  179 

„  Louise  198 

„  Madeira            -  192 

„  Malvern  180 

„  Manchester  191 

„  Marmalade  197 

,,  Meat  88 

„  Mocha      -  209 

„  Orange,  Steamed  199 

„  Plum  195 

„  Plum,  Plain  177 

„  Portuguese  Bars  200 

„  Queen  of  188 

„  RaUway          -  -  178 

„  Rice  and  Apricots  189 

„  Rice  (Ground) 

Steamed         -  176 

„  Rice  Plain  Boiled 

(Sweet)  170 

„  Bice  Mould 

(Plain)  171 


PAGE 

Pudding,  Eicc  (without 

Eggs) 

169 

1} 

Boly  Poly 

174 

J) 

Rum  Omelet 

185 

jf 

Sago  and  Rhubarb 

Mould 

179 

)} 

Savoury 

358 

}j 

Scrap  ,Bread 

176 

» 

Scrap  Bread 

(Baked) 

176 

jj 

Semolina 

169 

Seven  Cup 

175 

)} 

Souffles 

185 

}} 

Spanish  Puffs  - 

200 

Suet 

173 

}} 

Sultana            173 

199 

jj 

Sweet  Omelet 

185 

jj 

Swiss 

179 

jj 

Swiss  Tart 

192 

» 

Syrup  Pastry 

181 

j; 

Tapioca  (1) 

169 

» 

Tapioca  (2) 

190 

7J 

Treacle     - 

174 

}} 

Treacle  (Superior 

)  194 

1J 

Vermicelli 

189 

J1 

Viennoise 

197 

ft 

Wakefield 

180 

}J 

Yorkshire  (A) 

183 

)} 

Yorkshire  (B) 

183 

Puff  Pastry 

303 

- 

Q 

Queen 

Cakes 

270 

Queen 

of  Puddings 

188 

Quenelles  of  Veal 

101 

Quenelles  of  Whiting 

68 

R 

Rabbit, 

Blanquotte 

110 

;; 

Boiled 

96 

Brown  Stew 

107 

ty 

Casserole 

126 

tj 

Pie 

121 

jj 

White  Stew 

78 

Railway  Pudding 

178 

Raised 

Pie  Crust 

304 

Raised 

Pork  Pie 

122 

Raisin 

Cake 

280 

372 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Raspberry  Buns 

261 

Roast 

Veal,  StuflEed 

92 

„           Cream 

215 

Rock 

Buns 

260 

„          Jam 

319 

Rognons  Norv^gienne 

229 

„          Vinegar 

324 

Roly  Poly 

174 

„          Water  lee 

220 

Roman  Pie 

127 

Eed  Cabbage  (Pickled)  - 

312 

Rough  Puff  Pastry 

301 

„     Currant  Jelly  (A) 

321 

Royal  Icing 

296 

„     Currant  Jelly  (B) 

321 

Rum 

Omelet 

185 

„     Currant  Jelly  (G)  - 

322 

Russian  Pie     • 

126 

Reform  Cutlets 

115 

„ 

Sandwich 

279 

Reform   Garnish 

115 

Tofflee 

335 

Reform  Sauce 

245 

Rhubarb  and  Ginger 

319 

s 

^,         Jam 

319 

„        Mould 

208 

Saddle  of  Mutton  (Boast) 

91 

Ribbon  Fillets  of  Sole 

63 

Sage 

and  Onion  Stuffing  77 

252 

Ribbons,  Potato 

160 

Sago, 

Lemon 

179 

Rice  and  Apricots 

189 

Sago 

and  Rhubarb  Mould 

179 

„     Biscuits 

290 

Sago 

Cream 

331 

„     Cake  (Large) 

285 

Salad 

Dressing  (Cooked)  1 

ie'8 

„     Cakes 

270 

Dressing  (Cooked)  2 

168 

„     and  Cheese 

345 

Dressing,'  English 

166 

„     Ground  Pudding 

Dressing,  French  - 

166 

(Steamed) 

176 

Dressi^ig, 

„     Mould   (Plain) 

171 

Mayonnaise 

166 

„     Plain   (BoUed) 

156 

Dressing,  Sweet 

167 

„     Plain  (Boiled)  Sweet 

170 

Apple 

165 

„     without  Eggs 

169 

Cheese 

164 

„     Soup 

,    31 

Chicken 

164 

Rich  Short  Crust 

302 

English 

162 

Ring,  Yeast 

265 

Fish 

163 

Rissoles  of  Chicken 

128 

French  or  Lettuce 

161 

Rissoles  in  Paste 

127 

Truit 

164, 

Roast  Beef 

75 

Mixed  Fruit 

164 

„      Duck 

94 

Orange 

165 

Fowl 

93 

Pineapple     -- 

165 

„       Grouse 

136 

Potato 

162 

„      Lamb  or  Mutton 

> 

Tomato 

162 

(Frozen)     \ 

76 

Winter 

163 

„       Mutton  (Pot) 

76 

Salmon,  Boiled 

56 

J,      Mutton,  Saddle  of 

91 

Bottled      ^ 

309 

„      Partridges 

136 

Mayonnaise 

70 

„      Pheasant 

136 

Sally 

Lunn 

267 

„      Pigeon           — 

95 

Salmi  of  Pheasant 

108 

„      Pork 

76 

Salsify,   Steamed 

145 

,,      Potatoes 

154 

Salsify,  Stewed 

146 

,      Shoulder  of  Mutton 

Salt 

Fish,  Boiled          '- 

50 

(Stuffed) 

92 

Salt  Meat,  Boiled 

72 

INDEX. 


373 


PAGE 

FAais 

Sandwiches,  Cheese 

231 

Sauce 

Egg 

237 

„           Cheese,  Cream 

231 

j> 

Espagnole 

244 

„           Chicken 

232 

,j 

Fig 

251 

„           Chicken  and 

„ 

Fish 

238 

Chutney 

231 

jj 

Fish,  Brown 

238 

„           Cucumber 

234 

fj 

Foundation  or 

„           Egg  and 

White 

237 

Anchovy 

232 

Gooseberry 

248 

„           Fruit 

235 

J) 

Gratin 

245 

„            Gherkin  and 

Hard 

251 

Sardine 

232 

„ 

HoUandaise 

247 

„           Ginger  Cream 

236 

It 

Horse  Radish  (Cold, 

247 

„           Lax     - 

233 

)j 

Horse  Radish  (Hot) 

242 

„           Lettuce 

234 

jj 

Jam 

240 

„           Madras 

233 

jj 

Lemon 

250 

•,-,            Pastry 

275 

tj 

Lobster 

243 

„           Prune 

235 

J, 

Maitre  D 'Hotel 

243 

„          Eaw  Beef 

327 

)t 

Mayonnaise 

248 

„           Russian 

279 

), 

Melted  Butter 

23S 

„           Salmon  and 

ti 

Mint 

240 

Lobster 

233 

JJ 

Mustard 

238 

„            Salted  Almond  235 

,} 

Oiled  or  Melted 

„           Tomato  and 

Butter 

249 

^       Egg 

234 

JJ 

Onion 

238 

Sardine  Pyramids 

227 

» 

Orange 

250 

Sardine  Toast 

222 

)j 

Oyster 

243 

Sauce,  Anchovy 

237 

ij 

Parsley 

238 

„      Apple 

239 

JJ 

Piqua,nte 

245 

„       Arrowroot 

249  , 

J, 

Reform 

245 

„       Beamaise 

247 

JJ 

Shrimp 

242 

„      Bechamel 

241 

JJ 

Soubise 

244 

„      Bigarade 

246 

JJ 

Supreme 

241 

„       Brain 

237 

J, 

Sweet                  238 

249 

,;      Bread  (1) 

239 

J, 

Tart  are 

248 

„      Bread   (2) 

248 

JJ 

Tomato 

246 

'„       Brown 

238 

JJ 

Treacle 

240 

Butter 

241 

JJ 

Veloutg 

241 

„      Caper 

237 

JJ 

Whipped  Egg 

251 

„      Chasseur   (for 

JJ 

Wine 

250 

Venison)         - 

246 

Sausage  RoUs 

90 

„       Chaudfroid  (White] 

242 

Sausages,  Stewed 

82 

„      Chocolate 

250 

Savoury  Balls 

79 

„      Coffee  Custard     - 

249 

JJ 

Macaroni 

35a 

„      Cucumber  (Hot)  - 

242 

JJ 

Omelet 

184 

„      Curry 

246 

JJ 

Pudding 

358 

„      Custard 

249 

Scalloped  Oysters 

66 

„      Custard  (Plain)  - 

240 

JJ 

Fish 

65 

„      Dutch 

243  , 

JJ 

Sweetbreads 

130 

374 


INDBX. 


Scotch  Eggs 
Scones,  Brown 

PAGE 

348 
259 

X 

Souffle,  Cheese  (Hot) 
„        Cherry 

225 
186 

„        Dropped 

258 

}t 

Chocolate 

187 

Potato 

259 

J, 

Farinaceous 

186 

„        Soda  - 

258 

„ 

Fish 

67 

„        Sweet  Milk 

258 

jj 

General  Foundation 

„         Treacle 

259 

Proportions 

186 

Scotch  Bloth 

29 

)> 

Lemon 

208 

„        Currant  Bun 

287 

J} 

Nut 

151 

„       Pound  Cake 

286 

» 

Omelet 

185 

Scrambled  Egg 

342 

?j 

Vanilla 

186 

Scrap  Bread  Pudding 

176 

Soup, 

Alexandra 

43 

Scrap  Bread  Pudding 

;j 

Almond 

37 

(Baked) 

176 

tt 

Artichoke  or 

Seafoam  Soup 

45 

Palestine 

36 

Seakale,  Boiled 

140 

JJ 

Beetroot 

40 

Seakale,   Stewed 

147 

» 

Bisque  of  Lobster 

35 

Sea  Pie 

89 

» 

Bonne  Femme 

42 

Semolina  Pudding 

169 

?> 

Broth,  Scotch 

29 

Semolina  Snow 

206 

)? 

Broth,  Sheep's  Head 

30 

Seven  Cup  Pudding 

175 

ft 

Brown 

27 

Sheep's  Head 

75 

ir 

Brown  Vegetable  (1) 

26 

„             Broth 

30 

Brown  Vegetable  (2) 

44 

„             Pie 

88 

^^ 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Shell  Fish,  Scalloped      - 

66 

Pnrle 

(39 

Shepherd's  Pie 

85 

j% 

Carrot 

24 

Shortbread 

263 

:j 

Cauliflower 

38 

Short  Pastry 

301 

ft 

Oelery 

36 

Short  Pastry,  Bioh 

802 

ft 

Chestnut 

37 

Short  Pastry,  Spiced 

303 

ft 

Chicken  Cream 

41 

Shoulder  of  Mutton, 

tt 

Clear 

33 

Stuffed   (Boast) 

92 

it 

Consommg  Colbert 

34 

Shrewsbury  Cakes 

288 

ft 

Consommfi  Julienne 

34 

Shrimps,  Potted 

71' 

tt 

ConsoTTimfi  Boyal 

34 

SitTiTnel  Cake 

387 

tt 

Orecy 

40 

Soda  Scones 

258 

tt 

Curry 

43 

Sole,  Whole  Stuffed,  Fried     61 

ft 

Pish               -           2: 

!,  35 

„     Stuffed,  Baked 

62 

it 

Giblet 

28 

„     a,  la  Crgme  Blanche 

61 

tt 

Gravy 

44 

„     Aux  Crevettes 

61 

ft 

Green  Pea  Purfie 

38 

„      au  Gratin 

60 

tt 

Hare 

46 

„     h  la  Portugaise 

59 

tt 

Hollandaise 

39 

„     a,  la  Eouenaise 

60 

tt 

Hoteh  Potch 

30 

„     Ribbon,  Fillets  of 

63 

tt 

Imitation  Hare    - 

45 

Soubise,  Outlets 

119 

tt 

Kidney 

44 

Souffle,  Cauliflower  and 

ft 

LentU 

25 

Tomato 

157 

ft 

Melt 

28 

Souffle,  Cheese  (Cold) 

229 

tt 

Mock  Kidney 

27 

INDEX. 


375 


FAG£ 

Soup, 

Mock  Turtle 

47 

tf 

Mulligatawny 

48 

t} 

Onion 

23 

)) 

Ox  TaU 

47 

Palermo 

42 

Pluek 

28 

Potato 

25 

Potato  Purge 

37 

Riee 

31 

Sea  Foam     - 

45 

Tapioea  Cream 

41 

Tomato 

39 

Turnip 

41 

Vegetables,  Dried 

23 

23 


23 


Vegetables,  Starchy 
„      Vegetables,  Fresh 

Starchy 
„      Vegetables,  Fresh 

Watery      -  23 
„      Vegetables,  Less 

Watery      -        -  24 

„      Vegetable  Marrow  24 

„      Wliite            -        -  36 

„      White  Lentil  42 

„      White  Vegetable  -  26 

Spanish  Puffs          -  200 

Spiced  Apple  Tart          -  190 

Spiced  Short  -Crust    \    -  303 

Spiced  Vinegar  311 

Spinach           -        ■  157 

Spinach  h.  la  Creme  157 

Sponge  Cake  278 

Sprouts  145 

Sprue,  Steamed  142 

Stanhope  Jelly  211 

Steak,  Grilled  113 

„       and  Kidney  Pie  -  120 

„       Steamed       -        -  84 

„       Stewed                  -  103 

„       and  Onions  (Fried)  83 

„       Victoria  104 

Steamed  Filleted  Fish  327 

Stew,  Brown            -  79 

„      Brown,  of  Rabbit  107 

„      Exeter  and  Savoury 

Balls          -        -  79 

„      Fish  50 

„      Fruit                     -  178 


PAGE 


Stew,  Hough  and 

Vegetables 

80 

„      Irish 

77 

„      Kidney 

102 

„      Ox  Tail 

1£)4 

„       Pigeon 

108 

„      Potato 

„       Prunes 

178 

„      Rabbit   (White) 

78 

„      Steak 

103 

„      Veal  and  Riee 

102 

„      Vegetable  Marrow 

14G 

St.  George's  Hall  Cake 

282 

Stock,  Bone 

22 

„      Clear 

33 

„      Fish 

22 

„       Plain  Brown 

32 

„      Second 

32 

„      White 

32 

Strawberry  Cream 

215 

„           Jam 

318 

„           Shortcake     - 

280 

Stuffed  Cabbage     - 

147 

1 

,       and  Dressed  Cod 

58 

1 

,       Cod  Steaks 

58 

t 

,        Haddock   (Baked) 

51 

J 

,       Herring 

52 

) 

,       Mutton  Shoulder 

92 

,        Onions 

87 

J 

,       Potatoes 

86 

Tomatoes  (Baked) 

149 

J 

,       Veal  (Roasted)    - 

92 

StuiEng,  Sage  and 

Onion                          77, 

-258 

Suet  Pastry 

301 

Suet  Pudding 

173 

Sultana  Pudding 

173 

Sweet  Milk  Scones 

258 

Sweet  Omelet 

185 

Sweet  Pickles 

313 

Sweetbread,  Cassolettes  of 

130 

Sweetbreads,  in  Cases 

131 

„              h  la  Creme 

109 

„              Dutch 

106 

Fried 

117 

„             Larded 

112 

„             Mixture 

125 

„             Scalloped 

130 

376 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Sweetbreads,  Vol  au  Vent     124 

Swiss  Cream  203 

„      Pudding  179 

„      Roll  -                264 

„      Roll,   Rich  277 

„       Tart  -                192 

Syrup  Pastry  181 

Syrup               -  --340 


Table  for  Bottling  Fruits 

and  Vegetables  305 

Tablet,  Cocoanut  336 

„       Fig    .        -  336 

„       Walnut  336 

Tantallon  Cakes  293 

Tapioca  Cream        -  203 

„        Cream  Soup  -        41 

„        Pudding    (1)  169 

„        Pudding   (2)  -       190 

Tart,  Fruit-     -         -       181,  190 

Tart,  Swiss  -       192 

Tartare  Sauce  248 

Tartlets,  Orange  Cream  -       274 

Tea  346 

Teacakes,  Yorkshire  256 

Tea,  Linseed  330 

Teal   (Roast)  137 

Thick   Marmalade  ^316 

Toad-in-a-Hole  87 

Toast  Water  328 

Tomatoes  and  Bacon  351 

Baked   (a)  149 

„        Baked  (b)  ■       149 

„        Baked  Stuffed         149 

„        Bottled  •       308 

„        Jellies  of.  Little    230 

„         Salad       ■  162 

Tomato  Chutney  (1)  313 

„         Chutney    (2)  314 

„         and  Egg  Dish  150 

„         and  Egg 

Sandwiches  -,     234 

Sauce  246 

„         Soup  39 
Tongue,  Glazed  and 

Buttered  100 


PAGE 

Tongue,  Pjckled  (Dry)  -  310 

Tongue,  Pickled  (Wet)  310 

Transparent  Icing  297 

Treacle  Pudding              -  174 

„       Pudding,  Superior  194 

„       Sauce  240 

„       Scones  259 

Trifle                -  205 

Tripe  and  Onions  (Stewed)  81 

Turkey  and  Fowl  Stuffing  253 

Turkish  Delight                -  337 

Turnip,   Old,  Boiled  141 

„        New,  Boiled  141 

„    ,    Steamed  145 


Vanilla"  Cream 
Veal  Blanquette 
♦,     Cake  (1) 
„     Cake  (2) 
„      Curried 
„     Cutlets 
„      Forcemeat 
„     Pricandeau 
,j     Galantine 
„     Grenadines 


214 

110 

119 

120 

107 

-       117 

252,  344 

111 

99 

111 


„      and  Ham  Pie  121 

„      and  Ham  Shape  129 

„     Quenelles  101 

„     and  Rice  Stew  102 

„     Stuffed   (Roast)  92 

Vegetable  Marrow,  Baked  148 

„         Marrow,  Steamed  144 

„         Marrow,  Stewed  1^6 

„          Marrow  Goose  358 

„         Marrow  Jam 

(Pulped)     -  320 
„          Marrow  Jam 

,     (Wliole)  320 

„          Marrow  Soup  24 

Pie  155 

„          Soup,  Brown  (1)  26 

„          Soup,  Brown  (2)  44 

„          Soup,  White  -je 

Vegetables                       .  13^ 

„           Baking  143 


INDEX. 


377 


PAGE 

Vegetables,  Boiling         •  138 

„          Braising         -  152 
„           Cooking  in 

Butter  151 

„           Frying  15S 

„          Steaming  141 

„           Stewing  140 

„          To  Use  Raw  161 
Artiohokes,  Globe,  Boiled  138 
„           Jerusalem 

Baked  148 
„           Jerusalem 

Braised  152 
„            Jerusalem 

Buttered  151 
„         '  Jerusalem 

Steamed  142 
„           Jerusalem 

Stewed  146 

Asparag^is,  Steamed  142 
Aubergines  (Stuffed) 

Baked  148 
„            (Stuffed) 

Braised  153 

„           Steamed  142 

„           Stewed  146 

Beetroot,  Baked  148 

„        Boiled  139 

„        Steamed  143 

Beans,  Baked  148 

„        Steamed  142 

„        French,  Steamed  144 

„        French,  Stewed  148 

„        Haricot,  Stewed  148 

Brussels  Sprouts,  Baked  148 

„        Sprouts 

Steamed  145 

„        Sprouts,  Stewed  147 

Cabbage,  Baked  -        -  148 
„          (Stuffed) 

Stewed  147 
„          (Stuffed) 

Braised  153 

„         Buttered  152 

„         Steamed        -  143 

„         Bed,  Steamed  143 

„         Stewed  147 

Carrots,  Baked    -        ■  148 


PAGE 

Carrots,  Steamed  143 

„         Stewed  147 

Cauliflower,  Baked      -  148 

„             au  Gratin  150 

„  »nd  Tomato 

Souffle  -  151 

„            in  Batter  158 

„            Steamed  143 

Celeriac,  Steamed        -  144 

Celeriac,  Stewed          -  146 

Celery,  Baked  148 

„       Braised  154 

„       Fried  159 

„       Steamed  144 

„       Stewed  147 

Chestnuts,  Preparation  157 

„           Plain  -         -  157 

Chestnut,  Curry            -  157 

Chicory,  Boiled  139 

Colcannon  156 

Cucumber  (Stuffed) 

Braised  154 

Endive  (French)  Boiled  139 

Haricot  Beans,  Stewed  148 

Kale,  Steamed  144 

Kale,  Stewed  147 

Kohl  Eabi,  Steamed  144 

Leeks,  Baked  148 

„       Steamed  144 

„       Stewed  147 

„       au  Gratin  150 

Lentils,  Curried  155 

Marrow,  Baked  148 

„         Braised  153 

„          Steamed  144 

„         Stewed  146 

Mushrooms,  Baked  150 

Mushrooms,  Stewed  ISS' 

Onions,  Boiled  13» 

„        Steamed  145 

„        Stewed  147 

„         au  Gratin  150 

Parsnips,  Steamed  145 

Parsnips,  Stewed  147 

Parsley,  Fried      -  161 

Peas,  Green,  Boiled  140 

Peas,  Green,  Steamed  -  145 

Peas,  Marrowfat,  Boiled  139 


378 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Pea,  Green,  Purfie       -  158 

Peas  Pudding     -  155 

Potatoes,  Almond  159 

Baked  148 

„         Boiled  140 

(New) 

Buttered  152 

„         Fried  159 

„         Mashed  154 

„          Roast  154 

„         Steamed  145 

„         Stewed  148 

Potato  Chips  (a)  160 

„      aiips  (b)  160 

„       Croquettes  159 

„      Eibbons  160 

„       Straws  160 

Salsify,  Steamed  145 

Salsify,  Stewed  146 

Seakale,  Boiled  140 

Seakale,  Stewed  147 

Spinach                 ■  157 

Spinach  h  la  Creme  157 

Sprue,  Steamed  142 

Tomato  and  Egg  150 

Tomatoes  (a)  Baked  149 

„  (b)  Baked        .  149 

„         (Stuffed) 

Baked  149 

Turnip,  New,  Boiled  141 

„         Old,  Boiled     -  141 

„        Steamed  145 

Yeloute  Sauce  241 

Velvet  Cream  213 

Venison            -  135 

Vermicelli  Pudding  189 

Victoria  Chicken  133 

Victoria  Steak  104 

Viennoise  Pudding  197 

Vinegar,  Raspberry  324 

Vinegar,  Spiced  311 

Vol  au  Vent  of  Fruit  205 

Vol  au  Vent  of  Sweetbread     124 


PAO£ 


w 


Walnut  Cake  (a)  -      279 

„        Cake   (b)  279 

„        and  Date  Loaf  -       257 

„        Filling  299 

„        Tablet  336 

Walnuts,  Pickled  312 

Water  Icing  295 

„       lees  220 

„       Lemon  Ice  -       220 

„       Raspberry  lee  -      220 

„        Ice  made  from  Jam  220 

Welsh  Cheese  Cakes  274 

Welsh  Rarebit  345 

Whipped  Egg  Sauce  -      251 

Whitebait  -         63 

White  Cake  -      28'3 

White  Cake,  Plain  263 

White  or  Foundation  Sauce  237 

„      Puddings  356 

Soup             -  36 

„      Lentil  Soup  -         42 

„       Stew  of  Rabbit  78 

Whiting,  Fried  62 

Whiting,  Quenelles  of  68 

Wliole  Sole,  Stuffed  and 

Fried  61 

Widgeon,  Roast      -  137 

Wild  Duck  (Roast)  137 

Wine  Jelly              -  211 

„     Sauce     -  250 

„     Whey  332 

Winter  Salad          -  -       163 


Yeast  Ring      -  265 

Yorkshire  Pudding  (A)  -  183 

„         Pudding  (B)  -  183 

„         Tea  Cakes  256 

Yule  Cake  -  267 


Zingara  Cutlets       -         -       118 


& 


