Ryzon 





fpif , '■ • ' 'I 




I Midday Clul 



" r""^'*Lj 







ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








n^fr^-'^.. :■ ^ ,. 






From //ome Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






'es«nt Athletic Club| 



M 




CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




The Master Chefs of New York's Leading Hotels, 
Clubs and Restaurants were quick to realize the 
excellence of Ryzon, The Perfect Baking Powder 



Among the first to use Ryzon 


were these celebrated institutions: 


The Waldorf-Astoria ' 


U. S. Military Academy, Cadet 


Delmonico's 


Mess, West Point 




School of Household Science, 


The Colony Club 


and Restaurant of Pratt 


Hotel Astor 


Institute 


Sherry's 


New York Bureau of Hospital 


The Biltmore 


Standards and Supplies 


Hotel St. Regis 


Hotel McAlpin 


Lotos Club 


The Qaridge Hotel 


Hotel Knickerbocker 


India House 


Lambs' Club 


Crescent Athletic Club 


Hotel Martinique 


Caf6 Savarin 


The Downtown Association 


Drug and Chemical Club 


Montauk Club 


The Chemists' Club 


The Ritz-Carlton 


Hotel Bossert 


Bankers' Club of America 


City Lunch Club 


Hotel Vanderbilt 


Midday Club 


New York Yacht Club 


Syracuse University 


Hotel Gotham 


Y. W. C. A. Cafeteria 


Copley Plaza Hotel, Boston 


Hotel Bellevue-Stratford, Phila- 
delphia 


U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis 


Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston 


Catering to the world's most critical consumers, their 


standards are 


the highest 



kr 



Ryzon 

BAKING BOOK 

A PRACTICAL MANUAL FOR 
THE PREPARATION OF FOOD 
REQUIRING BAKING POWDER 



COMPILED AND EDITED BY 

MARION HARRIS NEIL, M. C. A. 

Author of "Salads, Sandwiches and 
Chafing Dish Recipes," Etc. 

WITH MASTER RECIPES BY 



Miss JESSIE A. LONG 

Instructor in Cookery, Pratt 

Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

JANET Mckenzie hill 

Editor of "American Cookery,'^ 

Boston. Mass, 

Mrs. LEMCKE-BARKHAUSEN 

Principal Greater New York 

Conking School 

KATHARINE LAWRENCE 

Director of Household 

Science. Temple University, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. HARRIETT COLE 

EMMONS 

Manager, RYZON Service Staff 



Miss ALICE BRADLEY 

Principal, Miss Farmer's School 

of Cookery, Boston, Mass. 

MARY MASON WRIGHT 

Cooking Expert of the "Designer" 

ELIZABETH O. HILLER 

Denver School of Cookery 
MARIA W. HILLIARD 

Wellesley Hills, Mass, 

Mrs. ANNA E. SCOTT 

Cooking Expert and Food _ 

Econojnist of the "Philadelphia 

North American" 

Mrs. CHRISTINE FREDERICK 

Consulting Household Engineer 




Copyright, igiy 

GENERAL CHEMICAL 



HAajaJ 




rx 


CONTENTS 




■n^ 


Prominent New York Institutions First Using Ryzon . . 


PAGE 

Inside Front 


<({^% 


How the Ryzon Baking Book Was Made 


3 


iMl 


Important Measuring Directions 
The Story of Ryzon 


4 
5 




Prize Winners of the Ryzon Recipe Contest 


6 




Comparative Economy of Ryzon 


8 




Saving Eggs by Using Ryzon . . . 


8 




CHAPTER 

I. Ryzon Breads 


9 




II. Ryzon Quick Breads ... 

Popovers, 14; Corn Breads, 14-16; Biscuits, 17-19; 
Muffins and Breakfast Breads, 19-23; WafHes, 23-24; 
Griddle Cakes, 25-27 ; Fritters, 27-28. 


13 




III. Ryzon Cakes . . . . 

Loaf Cakes, 31-40; Layer Cakes, 40-42; Fillings and 
Icings, 43-44. 


29 




IV. Ryzon Cookies, Doughnuts and Small Cakes .... 

Cookies, 45-48; Doughnuts, 48-49; Small Cakes, 49-53. 


45 




V. Ryzon Pastry, Pies, Shortcakes, Tarts and Tartlets . 

Pastries, 56-59; Shortcakes, 60-61; Pies, 61-63; Tart- 
lets, 63. 


54 




VI. Ryzon Puddings 

Steamed Puddings, 64-67; Baked Puddings, 67-68. 


64 




VII. Ryzon Savory Dishes ... ... 

Including inexpensive meat dishes, left-overs, and egg 
and cheese recipes, 69-75. 


69 




VIII. Ryzon Camp Cookery . .... 


76 




IX. Ryzon Home-made Candies 


77 




Tables of Weights, Measures and Time of Baking . ... 


80 




The Ingredients of Ryzon, The Perfect Baking Powder .... 


81 




The Truth About Baking Powders . ... 


81 




The Ryzon Plant — A Modern Food Establishment 


Inside Back 



HOW THE RYZON BAKING BOOK WAS MADE 

WHEN the marketing of Ryzon was begun, it was soon learned 
that a practical manual for the use of baking powder was 
desirable. There seemed to be no really scientific or accurate 
instructions which could be used with assurance of satisfactory results. 
It appeared that the use of baking powder was a matter of personal 
experience with one brand that might or might not be desirable or 
efficient. It was discovered that the present baking powder recipe 
books did not contain recipes now used in the best homes, and that 
the indefinite instructions seemed of little value to cooks in using 
any kind of baking powder. 

Therefore, it was quickly decided that the Ryzon Baking Book 
should be as much of an improvement over previous baking powder 
recipe books, as Ryzon, The Perfect Baking Powder, is an improve- 
ment compared with the old kinds of baking powder. 

To this end an extensive campaign of advertising for practical 
home recipes was inaugurated, with an offer of prizes to secure the 
best possible home recipes in use, and Marion Harris Neil was en- 
gaged to supervise the work, adding thereto her store of tested 
recipes, together with her experience in compiling practical cooking 
manuals. 

Thousands of good housekeepers in many States submitted their 
best and most original home recipes, from which a number of prize 
selections were made for the Ryzon Baking Book by expert judges. 

The Master Recipes were obtained from the prominent cooking 
experts whose names they bear, and many excellent and unusual 
private recipes were contributed from homes where they have been 
in practical use. 

Every one of the prize selections was carefully tested by actual 
baking, and doubly checked by the Ryzon Service Staff, before being 
included in the Ryzon Baking Book. 




Level spoonful, J^ os. RYZON. Rounding spoonful, %to 14 oz. OTHERS. Heapins spoonful, yiloHoz.OTHKRS. 



Modem recipes and the cooking schools now use standard Level spoon measurements for 
baking powders. Much of the so-called "bad luck" which untrained cooks experience in the 
use of all baking powders is caused by inaccurate measurements and the use of too much or too 
little for perfect baking results. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF RYZON 

One Level teaspoonful (14 oz.) of Ryzon to each cup (}4 lb-) of flour is sufficient for making 
cakes in which eggs are used. 

Two Level teaspoonfuls (K oz.) of Ryzon to each cup {}4 pint) of flour are sufficient for 
best results in making biscuits, muffins, waffles. 

Two and one-half Level teaspoonfuls (% oz.) to each cup (X pint) of buckwheat flour, 
graham flour, whole grain flours and meals, are required when eggs are not used. 

Each Ryzon recipe gives accurate Level measurements and weights of ingredients, with 
directions which, if carefully followed with the use of Ryzon, The Perfect Baking Powder, will 
insure perfect home baking. 





YZON 



The Perfect Baking Powder, is the result of 
years of research work by the General Chemical 
Company. This Company's staff includes some of the most 
eminent men in chemistry. For many years it has been produc- 
ing the materials used by Baking Powder manufacturers and has 
been particularly well situated to understand the needs of the 
industry and to direct its research work along lines most likely to 
yield important results. 

Baking Powder is a necessity. A good baking powder is essential to the comfort 
and convenience of every home. The solving of the baking powder problem, to 
produce for the American people and for the world a "perfect baking powder," — 
one which should be not only efficient and practical, but should also fulfill all 
desirable requirements from the standpoint of purity and health, — is an achieve- 
ment of which any company of scientific men might feel proud, especially when they 
are able to offer Ryzon, with all of its improvements over old-fashioned baking 
powders, at a lower price than usually asked for high grade baking powder. 

After having perfected Ryzon to their own satisfaction, officers of the General 
Chemical Company indirectly sent samples of Ryzon to the most famous cooking 
experts. They were asked to try this new baking powder, — which then had no 
name, — and to say unreservedly what they thought. The replies were uniformly 
that this was the most wonderful baking powder ever tried, that less was required 
than of other baking powders, and that the results were perfect. 

Finally, this new Ibaking powder was sent to one of America's greatest food 
authorities, who was asked for his frank opinion of it from a health standpoint. 
He wrote, in reply, that "Ryzon has qualities of excellence and physiological 
relations which entitle it to the confidence and patronage of the public." His 
opinion has been confirmed by other leading food experts of America. 

This is the reason for Ryzon, which is a guaranteed American pure food product 
of superior quality and efficiency, at a fair price. 



THE PRIZE WINNERS OF THE RYZON RECIPE 

CONTEST 

FROM 8,379 recipes submitted by home and expert cooks for the 
use of Ryzon, The Perfect Baking Powder, awards were made 
for originahty and excellence by the judges, — Christine Terhune 
Herrick, Marion Harris Neil, and Mrs. Julian Heath, from typewritten 
copies, identified only by numbers, — the judges having no knowledge 
of the person to whom the awards were being made, — as follows : 

PAGE 

1st prize, for Ryzon Baba, to Mrs. Percy Duvall, Dower House, Rosaryville, Md. 32 
So far as the judges know, Mrs. Duvall's Ryzon Baba is the first one made with 
baking powder. 
2nd prize, for Ryzon Rice Popovers, to Mrs. Frederick G. Wagner, Lakeview Ave., 

Leonia, N. J 13 

3rd prize, for Ryzon Health Bread, to Miss Nettie A. Buchanan, 3 Hudson Terrace, 

DobbsFerry, N. Y 11 

These three principal prize winning recipes, and other prize winning recipes will 
be found on the pages indicated. 

Ryzon Liberty Bread, Mrs. Louise Naylor, N. Y. City ... . 9 

RYZONNut Bread, Mrs. William H. Briggs, New York City . .... 10 

RYZONHealth Bread No. 2, Mrs. N.S. Baker, Meriden, Conn 11 

Ryzon Canton Biscuits, Mrs. Mary R. Doggett, Brooklyn, N. Y. ... 18 

RYZONSardine Biscuits, Mrs. Florence Lounds, Fort Lee, N.J. ... 18 

Ryzon Ham Muffins, Mrs. Jeannette Young Norton, New York City . . 21 

Ryzon Pineapple Fritters, Mrs. B. M. Smyth, Orange, N. J. . . , 27 

RYZONHominy Fritters, Mrs. J. J. O'Connell, Washington, D. C. ... 28 

Ryzon Maryland Black Cake, Mrs. Julius Snowden, Laurel, Md 34 

Ryzon Polish Guest Cake a la Reszke, Mrs. Hulda Thompson, New York City . 34 

Ryzon White Fruit Cake, Mrs. Harry Burgess, Nashville, Tenn. . ' 34 

Ryzon Coffee Crumb Cake, Mrs. M. Monnikendam, New York City 39 

Ryzon Nut Tart, Mrs. Aida B. Canniff, New York City ... 40 

Ryzon Layer Cocoa Cake, Miss Jennie Wallach, New York City . . 40 

Ryzon Orange Tea Cakes, Mrs. C. C. Bigelow, Tarpon Springs, Fla 50 

Ryzon Pie Crust and Cookies in One, Mrs. Rachel F. Fink, White Plains, N. Y. 58 

Ryzon Currant Shortcakes, Mrs. G. N. Hartley, Plainfield, N. J. . . 60 

Ryzon Grapefruit Shortcake, Mrs. Wm. J. Matheson, New York City . 61 

RYZONLemonPot Pie, Mrs. K.E.Johnson, New York City .... . 65 

Ryzon Meldone Pie Dinner, Mrs. A. S. Westcott, Edgewater, N.J. ... 70 

RYZONToadintheHole, Mrs. Maude Jervis, Brooklyn, N.Y 70 

RYZONApribaLoaf, Mrs. C.W.Shaw, Mountainville,N.Y 73 

Ryzon Meat Fold-Overs. Mrs. L. Boisse, Douglaston, L.I . 74 

Ryzon Cold Pigeon Pie, Mrs. Harold A. Brown, Caldwell, N.J 75 

As the result of our standing offer "$5 for each original baking recipe accepted for 
our Ryzon Baking Book" we are giving new recipes. The following have been 
accepted for this edition: 

Ryzon Mock Nut Bread, Mrs. W. G. W. Tupper, Minneapolis, Minn. . . 10 

RYZONCurrantLoaf, Mrs. H.B.Clement, Bristol, N.H. ... '.10 

Ryzon Steamed Brown Bread, Mrs. A. L. Cayzer, Evanston, 111. . ] n 

Ryzon Oatmeal Bread, Mrs. Anna Tackmeyer, New York City .... . . . . 11 

Ryzon Economical Bread, Mrs. Willard Steele, Chattanooga, Tenn. ... 12 



Ryzon Apple Corn Bread, Miss Emma L.Morse, Oxford, Mass 14 

Ryzon New Virginia Corn Meal Spoon Bread, A. C. Wood, Washington, D. C. 14 

Ryzon Sweet Potato Pone, Mrs. C.W. Tilden, Los Angeles, Cal 15 

Ryzon Wholesome Corn Muffins, Miss Sarah E. Gibson, Hagerstown, Md. . 15 
Ryzon Rice and Corn Meal Bread, Miss Emma Collins, Albany, Cal. . .15 

Ryzon Corn Parker House Rolls, Mrs. Mary E. Hall, Jamestown, N. Y. 16 

RYZON"Hot-Pog"Dainties, Mrs. John W.Tolson, Washington, D. C. . 17 

Ryzon Cheese Drop Biscuit, Forecast Modern School of Cookery ... 18 

Ryzon Buttermilk Biscuit, Mrs. J. B. MacEntire, Roanoke, Va. . . 19 

Ryzon Prune Biscuit, Mrs. Fred Friedlander, N. Y. City . .... 19 

Ryzon AppleMuffins, Mrs. C.W.Tilden.LosAngeles, Cal. . 20 

Ryzon Squash Muffins, Mrs. A. R. Corwith, Southampton, N. Y. ... 20 

Ryzon Oatmeal Breakfast Gems, Miss Emma Collins, Albany, Cal. . . 21 

RYZONCornMuffins, Mrs. Eleanor Ackerman, Brooklyn, N.Y 21 

Ryzon Bran Gems, Mrs. M. J. Harding, Detroit, Mich. . 22 

Ryzon Quick Sally Lunn, Mrs. A. M. Crum, Florence, Ala. 23 

Ryzon Quick Coffee Cake, Mrs. Mehmert, Olney, III 23 

Ryzon Hot Walnut Sandwiches, Mrs. Reynolds Casey, Flushing, Mich. . 23 

Ryzon Rice Griddle Cakes, Mrs. Inglis H. Brown, Lexington, Mass. . . 25 

Ryzon Hoover Pancakes, Mrs. E. D. Cole, Brooklyn, N.Y 26 

Ryzon Blueberry Griddle Cakes, Mrs. Herman Waddy, Washington, D. C. 27 

RYZONClamFritters, Miss Ruth Fredericks, Oak Ridge, N.J. ... 27 

RYZONEconomyFritters, Mrs. W.H.Frickey, Rochester, N.Y. . 27 

Ryzon Prune Cake, Mr^. Edgar M.Hall, Oelwein, la. ... 36 

Ryzon Canadian War Cake, Mrs. Gertrude Haig, Edmonton, Canada 36 

Ryzon Jelly Roll, Marion Harris Neil, Jersey City, N. J . 37 

Ryzon Dried Apple Cake, Mrs. Georgianna Dewey, Ann Arbor, Mich. 39 
Ryzon Mock Caramel Cake, Miss M. Deller, Milwaukee, Wis. . . .40 

Ryzon Molasses Layer Cake, Miss Nellie E. Adams, Tacoma, Wash. 42 

Ryzon Peanut Cookies, Miss Louise Fahrig, Philadelphia, Pa. . 46 

Ryzon Economical School Cookies, Margaret L. Evans, Lancaster, Pa. 47 

Ryzon Corn Meal Doughnuts, Mrs. George A. Clarke, Mulino, Ore. ... 48 

Ryzon Potato Fried Cakes, Mrs. Clarence G. Horton, Sand Lake, N. Y. 49 

Ryzon Callas, Miss Helen Wilson, Ames, la . 49 

RYZONFruit Bars, Mrs. James Richards, Houghton, Mich. . .51 

RYZONTeaTableDainties, Mrs. Kate Lowry, Chicago, 111. .... 51 

Ryzon Old Fashioned Molasses Cake, Mrs. Ella Smith, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

RYZONBetsyJumbles, Mrs. J. C.Merril, N. Y. City . . . 

Ryzon Cocoanut Buns, Mrs. John W. Bogart, Hackensack, N. J. 

Ryzon Oatmeal Shortbread, Mrs. Isa Williams, School House, Cedar, B. C. 

RYZONFrenchCookies, Mrs. M.L. Nenans, Winslow, 111. ... 

Ryzon Apple Pie, Mrs. G.Medler,Chevey Chase,, Md. 

Ryzon Apple Drops, Mrs. M. Eskolin, N. Colebro6k,"'Cohn. . ... 

Ryzon Steamed Suet Pudding, Mrs. C. N. Boilers, N. Y. City 

Ryzon Puffs, Mrs. Edward Albes, Washington, D. C. 

Ryzon Excellent Peach Pudding, Mrs. F. W. French, S. Oil City, Pa. 

Ryzon Egg Noodles, Mrs. Belle Failing, Sedalia, Colo. . . 

Ryzon Potato Soup, Mrs. A. D. Eraser, Burlington, Wash. . . ... 71 

Ryzon Rice Corn Pudding, Miss Frances R. Dickey, San Juan, P. R. . . 72 

RYZONSalmonand Tomato, Mrs. Cora Lee Wallace, Topeka, Kan 72 

Ryzon Beef Loaf, Miss Harriet Romer, Elmira, N. Y. . . 73 
Ryzon Potato Puff, Mrs. Allan Bancroft, Maywood. 111. . . .73 

Ryzon Cheese Omelet, Mrs. Mary Fredericks, Oak Ridge, N.J. . 73 

Ryzon Artichokes §. la Remoulade Shells, Miss Carine Carruthers, Seattle, Wash. 73 

Ryzon Beefsteak Pie, Miss Nora Longeway, Spring Bank, Alberta, Canada ... .74 

Ryzon " War-Meat " Loaf , Mrs. Clara E. Wells, Paton, la. 75 



SI 
.51 
SI 
52 
S3 
61 
64 
66 
67 
67 
70 



A 



COMPARATIVE ECONOMY OF RYZON 



T its price Ryzon is less expensive to use than other baking pow- 
ders sold at less per pound. 



You buy baking powder by the pound, but it is generally used by 
measurement. Ryzon contains no or more, averaging about 114, 
level teaspoonfuls to the pound. Other phosphate baking powders 
average about 95 level teaspoonfuls to the pound. We have found 
no other phosphate powder to contain as many as 100, and some 
brands of the calcium phosphate type have been found to contain 
only 88, level teaspoonfuls to the pound. Cream of tartar powders 
show a wider variance, with an occasional lighter measuring pound 
approaching Ryzon in number of level teaspoonfuls contained, but 
the average pound of cream of tartar powder contains considerably 
fewer level teaspoonfuls than a pound of Ryzon. 

Furthermore, less Ryzon is required by measurement for equal 
efficiency in baking, as J^ to 3^ more, by measurement, of so-called 
cheaper baking powders is ordinarily used to get less perfect baking 
results than easily obtained with Ryzon used as directed on the labels 
or in the Ryzon recipes. 

Hence, Ryzon is more economical in use, as well as superior in 
quality and baking results. 



SAVING EGGS BY USING RYZON 

When more eggs are called for than you care to use, you can reduce 
the cost of a recipe by using J^ level teaspoonful of Ryzon for each egg 
omitted. Often J^ to J^ of the eggs are omitted in this way by those 
desiring economy. 



RYZON LIBERTY BREAD— Special Recipe 
By Mrs. Louise Naylor, Ryzon Service Staff 

Chapter I 

Ryzon Breads 

YZON LIBERTY BREAD is a direct response to the call from the United States Gov- 
ernment's Food Administration for new breads to conserve wheat flour. We are glad to 
furnish this palatable, nutritious and economical recipe, which uses much less wheat 
flour than is customary, and is simple enough to be practical for use in every home. 
As a loaf bread it cuts without undue crumbling and retains moisture equal to 
breads in which a greater quantity of wheat flour is used. 
The addition of the one egg makes it unusually suitable for children's luncheon, or bread and but- 
ter sandwiches with a tea. 




RYZON LIBERTY BREAD 
I level cupful (6 ounces) corn meal. 
]/i cupful (J^ ounce) bran. 
I yi level cupf uls (6 ounces) white flour. 
6 level teaspoonf uls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) shortening, 
r }i cuptuls milk {}4 pint) or milk and water. 

I egg. 
Sift together corn meal, white flour, Ryzon and 



salt; add bran, cut in shortening and mix thor- 
oughly. Beat egg, add milk and mix with dry 
ingredients. Bake in a moderate oven thirty 
minutes. 

This mixture may be baked as a loaf brea4, 
as illustrated, or in gem pans for a hot bread. 

Sufficient for one medium-sized loaf. 

Note: — When using gas, light oven aftter loaf 
is put in, otherwise let bread stand for fifteen 
minutes before putting into a moderSte oven. 



RYZON BRAN BREAD 

6 level teaspoonf uls Ryzon. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 

I level teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 quart (6 ounces) bran. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter or lard. 

1 egg. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk or water. 

I level cupful (6 -unces) sultana raisins. 

Sift flour, sugar, salt and Ryzon into a mixing 
bowl, add bran, then add shortening and rub it 
in with the tips of the fingers. Beat up egg, add 
it with milk and raisins, and mix well. Divide 
into two small greased bread pans, and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. Currants may be 
substituted in place of the raisins. 

Sufficient for two small loaves. 

Bran adds nothing to the nourishment of the 
body, but it has another health function to per- 
form which is most important. It resists the 
action of the digestive ferments and very ma- 
terially assists in removing from the system 
poisons caused by the fermentation of food which 
cause many of the ills that flesh is heir to. By 
holding moisture and thus promoting intestinal 
secretions it affords a most useful laxative action 
to anyone of sedentary habit and has none of the 
ill effects of most medicines used for the purpose. 
Bran may be obtained in packages from the 
grocery, or in bulk from the feed store. 

RYZON ALMOND AND RAISIN BREAD 

l/i cupful (3 ounces) brown sugar. 
% cupful (i yi giUs) hot water. 
)4 cupful (i gill) molasses. 
% cupful {\yi gUls) milk. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level cupful {yi pound) flour. 

2 level cupfuls (10 ounces) graham flour. 
% level teaspoonful baking soda. 

I level teaspoonful salt. 
I tablespoonful {yi ounce) melted butter. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) seeded and chopped 

raisins. 
I level cupful {yi pound) blanched and 

chopped almonds. 

Pour water over sugar, add molasses and milk. 
Mix flour sifted with Ryzon, flour, salt, and soda 
together, and stir them into milk mixture. Add 
butter, raisins and almonds, and mix well. Turn 
into a well-greased pan and bake in a moderate 
oven for one and one-half hours. 

The graham flour is not sifted. 

Sufiicient for one medium-sized loaf. 



Frize Recipe 
RYZON NUT BREAD 

BY MRS. WILLIAM H. BRIGGS, NEW YORK CITY 

I level cupful (6 ounces) brown sugar. 

I level cupful {yi pound) chopped nut meats. 

1 level cupful {y^ lb.) chopped dates, stoned. 

2 level cupfuls (10 ounces) graham flour. 
2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 
I egg. 

Put brown sugar into a mixing bowl, add nuts, 
dates, graham flour, flour sifted with Ryzon and 
salt, and egg beaten and mixed with milk. Mix 
well and divide into two greased and floured loaf 
pans and set to rise for fifteen minutes in a warm 
place. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

This bread is excellent for sandwiches. 

Sufficient for two small loaves. 



RYZON MOCK NUT BREAD 

BY MRS. W. G. W. TUPPER, MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
2 level tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 
I egg. 

1 cupful [yi pound) Grape Nuts. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 

Beat egg in mixing bowl. Add salt, sugar, 
milk and Grape Nuts, then flour and Ryzon 
sifted together. Mold into two small loaves 
and bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 

Splendid for sandwiches. 

Sufficient for two small loaves. 



RYZON CURRANT LOAF 

BY MRS. H. B. CLEMENT, BRISTOL, N. H. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 
2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) shortening. 
yi cupful {yi, pound) currants. 
I level teaspoonful cinnamon. 
I egg. 
I cupful {yi pint) nulk — or milk and water. 



Beat egg in mixing bowl, add salt, cinnamon, 
molasses, currants, miUc and melted shortening, 
then flour and Ryzon which have been sifted to- 
gether. Turn into well-greased tin and bake in 
moderate oven forty-five minutes. Serve fresh 
with coffee or toasted with tea. 

Sufficient for one loaf. 



lU 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON HEALTH BREAD, No. 2 

BY MRS. N. S. BAKER, MERIDEN, CONN. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

i}4 level cupfuls {2% ounces) bran. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) entire wheat flour. 
}4 cupful (2 ounces) rye flour or meal. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

}i cupful (3 ounces) corn meal. 

2 shredded wheat biscuits. 
yi cupful (i gill) molasses. 

I cupful {}4 pint) milk. 
I cupful {yi pint) water. 

Put Ryzon and bran into a bowl, add entire 
wheat flour, rye flour sifted with salt, corn meal, 
shredded wheat biscuits, crushed, molasses, milk 
and water. Beat thoroughly and pour into a 
well-greased mold, cover, and steam steadily for 
three to four hours. 

Long standing improves the flavor and makes 
the bread darker. 

Sufficient for one medium-sized loaf which 
will serve six persons. 

N. B. — See Prize Health Bread Recipe on 
this page. 

RYZON STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

BY MRS. A. L. CAYZER, EVANSTON, ILL. 

2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) corn meal. 
I cupful {yi pint) molasses. 

1 level cupful (5 ounces) graham flour. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) cold water. 
yi level teaspoonful soda. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Sift corn meal, graham flour, Ryzon and salt 
together twice, stir soda in molasses and add the 
water; stir into dry ingredients until thoroughly 
mixed — pour in greased mold, and steam four 
hours. Sufficient for one medium-sized loaf. 

RYZON OATMEAL BREAD 

by MRS. ANNA TACKMEYER, RYZON SERVICE STAFF 

5 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
I level teaspooiiful salt. 

1 level tablespoonful sugar or molasses. 

2 level cupfuls cooked oatmeal. 
I egg. 

yi cupful (i gill) mUk or water. 

Cook I cupful of oatmeal in 3 cupfuls of water 
until a porridge; add salt, sugar and cool. Beat 
egg, add milk and egg to cooked oatmeal. Add 
flour and Ryzon sifted together, mix thoroughly, 
turn out on molding board and knead well. Bake 
for one hour in moderate oven. 

Sufficient ifor one loaf — weight lyi lbs. 



RYZON NEW ENGLAND NUT BREAD 

BY MRS. WILLIAM STEVENS, BEVERLY, MASS. 

yi cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
I yi cupfuls {J4 pint) milk. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
6 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level dessertspoonful (2 level teaspoon- 
fuls) salt. 
I level cupful {yi pound) chopped walnuts. 

Mix ingredients and allow to stand twenty 
minutes. Bake in a moderate oven three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Sufficient for one medium-sized loaf. 



WINCHESTER NUT BREAD 

^ cupful {lyi gills) hot water. 

yi cupful {yi pound) brown sugar. 

yi cupful (i gill) Barbados molasses. 

yi cupful {lyi gills) milk. 

2 level cupfuls graham or entire wheat flour. 

I level cupful {yi pound) flour. 
zyi level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
lyi level teaspoonfuls salt. 

yi cupful (3 ounces) walnut meats, coarssly 
chopped. 

Dissolve the brown sugar in the water, add the 
molasses and milk, stir in the flour sifted with 
Ryzon and salt. Add the nut meats, turn into a 
buttered bread-pan, and bake about an hour and 
a quarter in a moderate oven. 

Sufficient for one loaf. 



Third Prize Recipe 
RYZON HEALTH BREAD 

BY MISS NETTIE A. BUCHANAN, DOBBS FERRY, N. Y. 

2 level cupfuls (3 ounces) sterilized bran. 

I level cupful (6 ounces) corn meal. 

I level cupful (7 ounces) cream of wheat. 

1 level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

3 cupfuls {lyi pints) milk or cream. 

I cupful {yi pint) New Orleans molasses. 

Put bran into a basin, add corn meal, cream of 
wheat, flour sifted with Ryzon and salt, and 
molasses mixed with milk. Beat well, and pour 
into large, well-greased mold, — cover and steam 
steadily for eight hours. 

Weight of loaf when done, three and one-half 
pounds. 







RYZON BAKING POWDER BREAD 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
I level tablespoonful {}4 ounce) sugar. 
4 tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) butter. 
I egg. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk or }4 cupful milk 
and }4 cupful water. 

Mix flour, Ryzon, salt and sugar together and 
sift twice into a large bowl; add butter, cut it in 
with a knife, then rub it in as lightly as possible 
with the tips of the fingers, just working it until 
the shortening is well blended with flour mix- 
ture. 

Beat up egg, add milk to it, then add to dry in- 
gredients, mixing to a soft dough with a knife or 
spoon. Turn out onto a floured baking board, 
knead lightly and quickly to a smooth dough, 
place in a well-greased bread pan, allow to rise for 
fifteen minutes in a cosy place, then bake in a 
moderate oven for forty minutes. 

Lard or drippings may be used in place of 
butter. Sufficient for one medium-sized loaf. 

This bread is delicious. The loaf illustrated 
is especially good for sandwiches. 




RYZON ECONOMICAL BREAD 

BY MRS. WILLARD STEELE, CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) toasted and ground 

bread crumbs. 
2 level cupfuls (10 ounces) graham flour. 
5 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
iX level teaspoonfuls salt. 
I egg. 

1 tablespoonful molasses. 

2 cupfuls milk and water (i pint), or potato 

water. 

Put into a bowl bread crumbs, graham flour, 
RvzoN and salt. Stir molasses into the milk and 
water and add to the tiry ingredients, mixing 
thoroughly. 

Bake in well-greased bread pans in a moderate 
oven until the loaves leave the sides of the pans 
and are a nice brown — ^ about forty-five minutes. 

Sufficient; for two small loaves. 

Note: — Left over or stale pieces of any bread 
may be thoroughly dried or toasted in the oven 
(often while other cooking is being done on top of 
the stove), cooled, and then ground fine through 
the meat chopper. These bread crumbs are use- 
ful for many things in place of flour, as in the 
above recipe, and may also be used to advantage 
to thicken meat gravies. 

The water in which potatoes have been boiled 
will be found valuable for makirig breads and adds 
a certain amount of mineral nutriment much 
needed in our diet, but too often wasted. 

This bread may be varied by adding raisins, 
nuts, dates, candied orange peel or figs, and half 
cupful sugar, if a sweet bread is desired. 



RZYON RYE BREAD 

2^2 level cupfuls (10 ounces) rye flourorraeal. 
iK level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter sub- 
stitute. 

6 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls jnolasses. 

I >^ cupfuls {yi pint), scant, milk or milk and 
water. 

Into a bowl sift rye, flour, Ryzon and salt; add 
molasses arid milk. Mix carefully, turn into a 
greased and .floured bread tin and bake in a very 
moderate oven for about one hour. 

Sufficient for one large loaf. 




RYZON RICE POPOVERS— Second Prize Recipe 

By Mrs. FrederickvG. Wagner, Leonia, N. J. 

(See Recipe, page 14) 

I 

Chapter II 

Ryzon Quick Breads 




UICK breads are delicious when fresh, and are so called to distinguish them from yeast 
breads, which require a longer time for making and baking. 

Quick bread mixtures are either doughs or batters. Batter means "that which is bat- 
tered or beaten"; dough means "that which is wet or moistened." A quick bread should 
be quickly mixed, and put into the oven at once. Doughs require a hotter oven than 
batters. Too great heat causes bubbles of gas or air to burst and run together. 
Popovers are made light by the expansion of the liquid in them as it is changed to steam by the heat 
of the oven, the heat at the same time forming a crust, which keeps the steam from escaping. When 
done, popovers should be crisp, hollow inside, several times the height of the batter and well cooked 
throughout. 

When griddle cakes are full of bubbles on the top, and brown on one side, they should be turned over 
and browned on the other side. If large bubbles rise immediately to the top of the cakes, the griddle 
is too hot. Never turn a griddle cake twice ; a cake turned twice will be heavy and indigestible. Use 
a firm piece of beef suet on a fork to grease a griddle. Do not gi;ease a soapstone griddle. 

GOOD FLOUR AND HOW TO KNOW IT 
Bread flour, made from hard spring wheat, rich in gluten, is more nutritious and makes the elastic 
dough necessary for producing light bread. It is known by itscreamy white color, by its gritty feel- 
ing, by its capacity for absorbing water, and by its caking but slightly when squeezed in the hand. 
Pastry flour, made from soft or winter wheat, contains more starch than bread flour. It is used for 
pies, cakes, etc., but a good substitute may be made by sifting four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch or potato 
flour into each pint of bread flour. Always sift flour before measuring. 



13 



RYZON POPOVERS 

Second Prize Recipe ^ 

RYZON RICE POPOVERS 

BY MRS. FREDERICK G. WAGNER, LEONIA, N. J. 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) cold boiled rice. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) sugar. 

2 eggs — separated. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) milk. 

I level teaspoonful salt. 

Mash rice until smooth. Sift flour, Ryzon, 
sugar, and salt together twice. Beat yolks of 
eggs, add whites beaten to a stiff froth, and stir 
them into the rice. Then add milk and flour 
alternately, and beat until smooth. 

Have gem pans greased and a little flour sifted 
into each. Fill each two-thirds full with the mix- 
ture, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot with butter or maple syrup. Also as 
a dessert with preserved fruits. 

Sufficient for twenty popovers. 

RYZON WESTERN PUFFERS 

1 egg. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 

1 cupful (yi pint) milk. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {}4 pound) flour. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful (}4 ounce) lard. 
I tablespoonful {}4 ounce) butter. 

Beat up egg, add sugar and milk, add flour 
sifted with Ryzon and salt, beat well; add 
shortening melted, and beat for five minutes. 

Divide into buttered and floured popover or 
gem pans, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen min- 
utes. 

Always have a hot oven when making puffers. 

Sufficient for fifteen puffers. 

RYZON DELICIOUS POPOVERS 

BY MARION HARRIS NEIL, AUTHOR OF "CANNING, 
PRESERVING AND PICKLINO" 

I level teaspoonful Ry^on. 

1 level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. 

I cupful {}4 pint) milk. 
Mix flour, Ryzon, and salt together and sift 
them twice into a basin. Beat up eggs and add 
them gradually with milk to flour mixture; rub 
through a strainer or sieve and divide into hot, 
well-greased popover molds. The molds should 



be a little more than one-half full. Bake for 
thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. The 
oven door should be kept closed until the mixture 
has a firm enough crust to keep its shape when the 
door is opened. These popovers come out of the 
oven rich brown puffs which may be eaten hot 
with sugar and cream, with maple syrup, or 
with butter and berries. When these are filled 
with whipped cream, custard, or blanc mange, 
they make an excellent dessert. 
Sufficient for twelve popovers. 



RYZON CORN BREADS 

RYZON APPLE CORN BREAD 

4 level cupfuls {l}4 pounds) white corn 

meal. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

3 level tablespoonfuls {i}4 ounces) sugar. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) melted butter. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) water. 

3 cupfuls (^ pound) chopped sour apples. 

Sift corn meal, Ryzon, salt and sugar together ; 
stir in water, apples and melted butter. Pour 
into well-greased tin and bake one-half hour in 
moderate oven. Serve hot. 

Sufficient for six persons. 



RYZON NEW VIRGINIA CORN MEAL 
SPOON BREAD 

BY A. C. WOOD, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

I pint milk from top of quart bottle of 

milk. 

(This equals about yi cup table cream 

and I ^ cupfuls milk). 
I level cupful (6 ounces) old fashioned 

water ground whole corn meal (the cup 

filled lightly with a spoon and not 

shaken down). 
3 eggs, whites beaten separately. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Stir in the 
meal slowly and cook until a smooth batter which 
will pour from the spoon. Break in the egg yol ks, 
one at a time, beating vigorously all the while, then 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites, and bake from 
thirty to forty minutes in a moderately quick 
oven. Serve immediately with a spoon from a 
pan in which it was baked. 

This bread may also be made with hominy 
mush, and is nice eaten with strained honey or 
maple syrup. 

Sufficient for eight persons. 



14 



RYZON NEW ENGLAND CORN 
MUFFINS 

I level cupful (6 ounces) com meal. 
^ cupful (3 ounces) flour. 
3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level teaspoonf ul salt. 
}i cupful (4 tablespoonfuls) molasses — or — 
2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 
I cupful (yi pint) milk. 
I egg, well beaten. 

1 tablespoonful {yi ounce) melted butter. 
Sift together the com meal, flour, Ryzon, 

sugar (if used), and salt. Mix thoroughly milk 
and molasses (if used in place of sugar). Add to 
dry ingredients slowly, then add egg and melted 
butter. Bake in muffin tins t-v^enty-five minutes. 
Sufficient for twelve muffins. 

RYZON EGG CORN BREAD 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level cupful (6 ounces) corn meal. 

1 level cupful {}i pound) flour. 
X level teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs, separated. 

3 cupfuls {lyi pints) milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

Sift meal, flour, Ryzon and salt into a basin. 
Beat up yolks of eggs, add two cupfuls of the 
milk to them and butter, melted. Mix to a 
smooth batter with the other ingredients; then 
add whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour 
into a square baking pan that has been well 
greased. The batter should be about two 
inches- thick. Lastly, pour into the middle the 
remaining cupful of milk. Do not stir, but 
place gently in the oven, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven for fifty minutes. Turn out, cut in 
squares and serve at once. The center will , be 
custard-like in appearance. 

Sufficient for six persons. 

N. B. — See Master Com Bread Recipe on 
page 16. 

RYZON WHOLESOME CORN MUFFINS 

BY MISS SARAH E. GIBSON, HAGERSTOWN, MD. 

}4 level cupful (3 ounces) corn meal. 
yi level cupful wheat or' graham flour. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. >• 

I pupful {yi pint) mUk. 

I tablespoonful molasses. 

I tablespoonful melted shortening. 

Sift corn meal, flour, salt and Ryzon together. 
Stir in milk, molasses and shortening. Mix all 
thoroughly and pour into well-greased muffin 
tins. Bake in hot oven for about twenty-five 
minutes. Sufficient for six muffins. 



RYZON RAISIN CORN BREAD 
I }4 level cupfuls (12 ounces) seeded raisins. 
6 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
3 level cupfuls(i8 ounces) yellow corn meal. 
iK level cupfuls (Tyi ounces) graham flour. 
i}4 level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
I level teaspoonful sa It. 
I cupful {yi ■ pint) molasses. 
Milk. 
Wash raisins and cut them in halves, put them 
into a basin, add corn meal, Ryzon, salt, graham 
flour, and molasses mixed with enough milk to 
make soft. Mix thoroughly and turn into a 
large well-greased mold, cover, and steam steadily 
for three hours. 

Serve hot, cut in slices. 

The mold should be large enough so that it 
will be but half filled before steaming. 
Sufficient for ten persons. 

RYZON RICE AND CORN MEAL BREAD 

BY MISS EMMA COLLINS, ALBANY, CAL. 

I level cupful {yi pint) cold boiled rice. 
I level cupful (6 ounces) corn meal. 
I level cupful (yi pound) flour. 
6 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 
I egg. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. , 

Beat the egg until light. Add milk, salt, corn 
meal and rice, and lastly fiour sifted .with Ryzon. 
Mix thoroughly and beat hard. If necessary 
stir in five extra tablespoonfuls milk. Bake in 
three well-greased layer cake pans in hot oven for 
thirty minutes. When done turn out onto plate 
and arrange like a layer cake, spreading two 
layers with butter, dusting the top with powdered 
sugar. If desired, the egg may be omitted and an- 
other half level teaspoonful Ryzon added instead. 
This makes a delicious hot bread for tea. 
Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON SWEET POTATO PONE 

BY MRS. C. W. TILDEN, LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) grated sweet potatoes. 
I cupful {yi pint) sweet milk. 

1 "level teaspoonful ginger. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) brown 

sugar. 
2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) melted 

butter. 
I yi level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level teaspooncful salt. 
Beat first five ingredients thoroughly together. 
Sift flour, salt and Ryzon together twice, and add 
to first mixture, beat a minute, turn into a but- 
tered baking dish and bake in moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve in baking dish. 
This is a spoon bread and should be served as 
soon as taken from oven. Sufficient for six persons. 



IS 




RYZON CORN PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

BY MRS. MARY E. HALL, JAMESTOWN, N. Y. 

yi level cupful (3 ounces) corn meal. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls {^4, pound) flour. 
. Vi, level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter, or 

butter substitute. 
I cupful {yi pint) milk. 
I egg. 

Sift together corn meal, sugar, Ryzon, flour and 
salt. Cut in butter. Beat egg well. Add milk, 
using more milk if necessary, and mix with dry 
ingredi^ts. Roll one-half inch thick, butter and 



turn over to make Parker House Rolls. Bake 
fifteen minutes, and serve immediately. 
Sufficient for sixteen rolls. 

Master Recipe 
RYZON CORN BREAD 

1 tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 

2 eggs- separated. 

I level cupful (6 ounces) corn meal. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly together, 
add yolks of eggs one by one; then beat whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth and add them with the corn 
meal, flour sifted with Ryzon, and salt, and milk. 
Mix lightly together until all is thoroughly well 
mixed, then pour into a well-greased and floured 
shallow baking pan and bake in a moderately 
hot oven for fifteen minutes, or until done. Break 
or cut in pieces. 

This mixture may also be used for corn muffins 
or gems by baking in muffin rings or gem pans. 

Sufficient for six persons. 




UrZOiV CORN BREAD— Master Recipe 
By Mrs. LEMCKE-BARKHAnsEN, Principal Greater New York Cooking School. New York City 




' m^ir'm^^fy'^fm^ -^ ^T?^? '"'■' 



RYZON BISCUITS—Master Recipe 
By Maria W. Hiiitard, Wellesley Hills, Mass. 



RYZON BISCUITS 



Master Recipe 
RYZON BISCUITS 



2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter or i 

tablespoonful butter and i tablespoon- 
ful lard, 
^cupful {i}4 gills) to I cupful milk. 

Mix flour, RyzoN, and salt and sift into a basin ; 
add butter or lard, and chop with a sharp knife 
until mealy. Add milk gradually until mixture is 
soft and spongy. Turn onto a slightly floured 
baking board and roll lightly until of a uniform 
thickness, about one-half inch. Cut with a 
floured biscuit cutter, place on a greased tin and 
bake for twelve to fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 
Biscuits should always be separated on the pan, 



as they will be more delicate and lighter than 
when placed close together. 
Sufficient for twelve biscuits. 



RYZON "HOT-DOG" DAINTIES 

BY MRS. JOHN W. TOLSON, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 




17 



5 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I pound small smoked sausages. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) lard. 

About 2 cupfuls milk — or milk and water. 
Brush each sausage with mustard. 
Sift flour, salt and Ryzon together. Work in 
lard and gently mix in milk enough to make a 
smooth dough, soft enough to be handled easily 
without being stiff. Roll out about X '"^h thick. 
Cut in small squares. Lay one smoked sausage 
in each square; roll up and fasten securely by 
pinching dough together. , Place in a pan a little 
distance apart and bake in a quick oven until 
brown. Sufficient for fourteen dainties. 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON CANTON BISCUITS 

BY MRS. MARY R. DOGGETT, -BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls (}4 pound) flour. 
^ level teaspoonful salt. 

1 level tablespoonful {yi ounce) sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) lard. 
f< cupful (iK gills) milk. 

}4 cupful (2 ounces) chopped preserved 
Canton ginger. 
Sift Ryzon, sugar and salt together, and rub 
in shortening with the tips of the fingers; add 
ginger and then milk, mix lightly, roll out and 
cut quickly with a biscuit cutter; lay on greased 
tins and bake in a quick oven for ten to twelve 
minutes. Serve hot for luncheon or tea. 
Sufficient for twenty biscuits. 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON SARDINE BISCUITS 

BY MRS. FLORENCE LOUNDS, FORT LEE, N. J. 

Filleted Sardines. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {}i pound) flour. 
'/4 level teaspoonful salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls {\}4 ounces) lard. 
2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 
I cupful {}4 pint) milk, scant. 

Sift flour, Ryzon and one-half teaspoonful of 
salt into a basin, add lard and butter, cut them 
in with a knife and then rub in with tips of fingers ; 
add gradually enough milk to make a soft dough. 
Toss onto a slightly floured board and pat and 
roll with a rolling-pin until one inch thick. Cut 
out with a small, round cutter dipped in ilotir, 
place close together on a greased tin, bake in a 
hot oven from eight to ten minutes. Split while 
hot and place together with the sardines, sea- 
soned with salt, between the rounds; 

If liked, the sardines may be moistened with 
some of the sardine oil. 

Sufficient for twenty-four small biscuits. 



RYZON PEANUT BUTTER BISCUITS 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 

I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) sugar. 

1 tablespoonful {}4 ounce) lard or drippings. 

3 tablespoonfuls peanut butter. 

2 eggs. 

Milk enough to make a soft dough. 
Sift the flou-r, Ryzon, salt, and sugar into a 
bowl. Cut in the lard and peanut butter with a 
knife, or rub them in with tips of the fingers. 
Beat eggs and add them with sufficient milk to 
make a soft dough. Turn out"6n a floured bak- 
ing board, knead lightly, roll out, cut with a 
cutter, brush over with a little beaten egg, 
sprinkle with sugar, and bake from twelve to 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Sufficient 
for twelve biscuits. ■ ^- 

RYZON CHEESE DROP BISCUIT 

by FORECAST MODERN SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

I level cupful {}i pound) flour. 
yi teaspoonful salt. 
X cupful (i gill) water. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level tablespoonful {}4 ounce) butter or 

fat. 

8 level tablespoonfuls {}4 cup) grated cheese. 

Mix like drop baking powder biscuit. Bake 

twelve minutes in hot oven. They are excellent 

to serve with a vegetable as they are high in 

nutrition. 

Sufficient for twelve biscuits. 

RYZON SURPRISE BEATEN BISCUITS 

6 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

I level teaspoonful salt. 

1 level teaspoonful sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter or lard. 
I egg — separated. 

lyi cupfuls {yi pint) milk or milk and water. 

Sift flour, Ryzon, sugar and salt into a basin; 
add shortening, cut it in with a knife, then rub it 
in as lightly a s possible with the tips of the fingers. 
Beat up white of egg to a stiff froth, add milk to 
it and stir into the dry ingredients. Mix with a 
flexible knife, and turn out onto a floured baking 
board. Beat with a rolling-pin until the dough 
blisters, then roll out about three-fourths of an 
inch thick. Cut into biscuits, and lay them, not 
touching each other, on a greased baking pan, 
brush over the tops with yolk of egg beaten and 
mixed with one tablespoonful of milk, and bake 
in a quick oven for fifteen to eighteen minutes. 

Sufficient for twentv-five biscuits. 



18 



RYZON POTATO BISCUIT 

BY FORECAST MODERN SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

I level cupful (>^ pint) freshly mashed, 
lightly packed potato. 

1 level cupful {}4 pound) flour. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) melted but- 

ter or shortening. 
I level teaspoonf ul Ryzon. 
1 level teaspoonf ul salt. 
Add rr^elted butter to mashed potato. Mix 
and sift flour, Ryzon and salt and add to potato 
mixture to make a soft dough. Roll out quickly, 
cut with a biscuit cutter and bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. 

This also makes a good crust for a meat pie. 
Sufficient for twelve biscuits. 

RYZON PRUNE BISCUIT 

BY MRS. FRED FRIEDLANDER, NEW YORK CITY 

1 cupful stewed and pitted prunes. 

2 level cupfuls (X pound) flour. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

1 cupful (}4 pint) milk. 

Sift flour, Ryzon and salt into mixing bowl. 
Add butter or other shortening. Cut in with 
two knives until fine. Add milk slowly until 
a soft spongy mixture. Turn out on well-floured 
board. Roll quite thin — ^ inch . Cut with rather 
large biscuit cutter. Place one prune in center 
of biscuit and pinch the edges of dough up over 
the prune, as for a dumpling, turning that side 
down on the pan. Bake in quick oven. 

Sufficient for twelve biscuits. 

RYZON NUT BISCUITS 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (>^ pound) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter or lard. 
I cupful (4 ounces) chopped nut meats. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) sugar. 
I egg. 

Enough milk to make a soft dough. 
Sift flour, salt, and Ryzon together. Rub or 
cut in the butter and add the nuts and sugar. 
Beat up egg and add it to the dry ingredients, 
with enough milk to make a soft biscuit dough. 
Shape with floured hands into small balls, place 
well apart on greased tins, brush the tops with 
milk, sprinkle over with chopped nuts and bake 
in a hot oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot with butter. 

' If liked, the biscuits may be covered with frost- 
ing or they may be split and jelly put between the 
halves. Sufficient for eighteen biscuits. 



RYZON BALTIMORE BISCUITS 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls (}4 pound) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
}4 level teaspoonful sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) shortening. 

I cupful {}4 pint) or less of milk. 

Sift flour, salt, sugar and Ryzon twice. Cut in 
shortening; then add milk gradually, mixing with 
a knife. The dough should be as soft as can be 
handled without sticking. Toss onto a lightly 
floured baking board, pat or roll very lightly until 
half or three-fourths of an inch thick and cut 
quickly with a floured cutter. 

Lay on greased baking tins, and bake in a hot 
oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Sufficient for twelve biscuits. 



RYZON BUTTERMILK BISCUIT 

BY MRS. J. B. MAC ENTIRE, ROANOKE, VA. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
^2 level teaspoonful soda. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) shortening. 

Buttermilk. 

Sift dry ingredients into a bowl. Add shorten- 
ing and chop until mealy. Add buttermilk 
gradually until it is a soft dough. Roll thin and 
cut with biscuit cutter. Bake fifteen minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve immediately. Sufficient 
for twenty-five biscuits. 

N. B. — See Master Biscuit Recipe on page 17. 

RYZON MUFFINS AND BREAK- 
FAST BREAD 

RYZON SURPRISE PANCAKES AND 
MUFFINS 

BY MRS. GEORGE BANCROFT, ANN ARBOR, 
MICHIGAN 

2 level cupfuls (^ pound) flour. 

3 level tablespoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) water. 

Sift flour, Ryzon and salt into a mixing bowl, 
add water gradually, then beat well. Pour from 
a pitcher onto a hot, greased griddle, or frying 
pan,' if in camp, and turn when full of bubbles. 
When brown, serve hot with butter and maple 
syrup or sugar. Sufficient for fifteen cakes. 

This batter may be cooked in muffin rings. 

Note that no eggs or shortening are used in 
this recipe. 



19 




"'*' ^, 



.*-Jv^ -^ ^^ 



RYZON MUFFINS— Master Recipe 
By Miss AucE Bradley, Principal Miss Farmer's School of Cookery, Boston, Mass. 



Master Recipe 
RYZON MUFFINS 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I }4 level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) sugar. 

1 level teaspoonf ul salt. 

J4 cupful (scant }4 pint) milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter. 
I egg- 
Sift flour once, measure, add Ryzon, salt and 

sugar and sift four times, add milk gradually 
while stirring constantly. When smooth and 
free from lumps add butter, melted, mix, add egg, 
beaten until thick and light colored, beat well, 
and pour into well-greased hot gem pans. Bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 
Sufficient for twelve muffins. 

RYZON SQUASH MUFFINS 

BY MRS. A. R. CORWITH, SOUTHAMPTON, N. Y. 

I J^ level cupfuls (X pound) flour. 
I level tablespoonful {}4 ounce) sugar. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

5 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) shortening. 
34 cupful (l>^ gills) milk. 



I cupful {yi pint) squash. 

I egg. 
Sift together flour, sugar, salt and Ryzon. 
Beat egg lightly and add to it milk and squash. 
Melt shortening and add to combined mixture. 
Beat thorougKly and turn into hot greased muffin 
tins. Bake about twenty minutes. Sufficient 
for twenty muffins. 

RYZON APPLE MUFFINS 



MRS.C. W. TILDEN, LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

level cupful {}4 pint) milk, 
egg. 



level tablespoonful {^2 ounce) butter. 

level cupfuls (X pound) flour. 

level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
>^ level teaspoonful salt. 
2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 
I cupful (}4 pint) finely chopped apples. 

Sift flouTj Ryzon, salt and sugar three times. 
Beat egg, add melted butter and milk. Stir 
in dry ingredients and beat thoroughly, adding 
apples last. Pour into well-greased muffin pans 
and bake in quick oven until golden brown. 

Sufficient for twelve muffins. 



Priiie Recipe 
RYZON DELICIOUS HAM MUFFINS 

BY MRS. JEANNETTE YOUNG NORTON, N. Y. CITY 

yi cupful (2 ounces) butter. 
^ cupful (3 ounces) chopped cooked ham. 
I beaten egg. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
^ cupful {yi pound) graham flour. 
I level cupful {% pound) flour. 
I cupful {}4 pint) milk. 
Beat butter to a cream, add ham, mix well, 
then add egg, graham flour, flour sifted with Ry- 
zon and milk. Mix thoroughly and divide into 
twelve hot, well-greased muffin tins. Bake in a 
hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold. 
Sufficient for twelve muffins. 

NUT AND FRUIT MUFFINS 

BY MISS ALICE BRADLEY, 

PRINCIPAL, MISS farmer's SCHOOL OF COOKERY, 

BOSTON, MASS. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) bread flour. 
3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi cupful (lyi ounces) brown sugar. 
I level cupful (5 ounces) graham flour. 
yi cupful {lyi ounces) walnuts. 
6 dates. 

1 egg. 

^ cupful {lyi gills) milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i oz.) shortening, melted. 
Mix and sift bread flour, Ryzon, salt and brown 

sugar, add graham flour, nuts cut in pieces, and 
dates washed, stoned and cut in pieces. Mix well, 
add egg well beaten, milk and shortening. Beat 
thoroughly, bake in twelve greased muffin cups 
in a hot oven for eighteen or twenty minutes. 
Sufficient for twelve muffins. 

RYZON BREAD MUFFINS 

BY FORECAST MODERN SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) bread crumbs. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) flour. 

I level tablespoonful (f^ ounce) melted 

butter or shortening. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I yi cupfuls (Si pint) milk. 

1 egg. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

Cover crumbs with milk and soak fifteen 
minutes. Beat smooth, add egg yolk, flour, 
salt, Ryzon and butter. Fold in egg white 
stiffly beaten. Bake in buttered muffin tins in 
a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

Sufficient for twelve muffins. 



RYZON "LEFT-OVER" CORN MUFFINS 

BY MRS. ELEANOR ACKERMAN, BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

3 level tablespoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level teaspoonful salt. , ' 

I cupful (^ pint) water. 

I cupful {yi pint) canned corn. 

Sift flour, Ryzon and salt into a bowl, add 
water and canned corn gradually and beat well. 

Bake in muffin rings or as griddle cakes on a 
hot well-greased griddle. 

One level tablespoonful of sugar may be added 
if desired. Note that no eggs or shortening are 
used in this recipe. 

Sufficient for twelve muffins. 



RYZON NUT GRAHAM MUFFINS 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level cupful (5 ounces) graham flour. 

2 level cupfuls (K pound) flour. 
I level teaspoonful baking soda. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter. 

I level cupful (6 ounces) brown sugar. 
I level cupful {yi pound) chopped nut 
meats. 

1 egg. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) sour milk. 

Mix flour with graham flour, Ryzon, soda 
and salt, sift twice into a basin, add butter and 
rub it in finely with tips of fingers, then add 
sugar, nuts, eggs well beaten, and milk. Mix 
well and divide into greased and floured muffin 
tins and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Sufficient for twenty-four 
muffins. 

N. B. — See Master Muffin Recipe on page 20. 



RYZON OATMEAL BREAKFAST GEMS 

BY MISS EMMA COLLINS, ALBANY, CAL. 

1 level cupful {yi pint) cooked oatmeal. 
I yi level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

yi cupful (i gill) milk. 

1 egg. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter. 

Mix and sift together flour, Ryzon, salt and 
sugar. Beat egg, add milk, melted butter and 
oatmeal. Then add dry ingredients, beat all 
thoroughly and pour into well-greased gem pans 
and bake in quick oven. 

Sufficient for twelve gems. 



RYZON HONEY GEMS 
2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzcn. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
2 level cupfuls (X pound) flour. 
I tablespoonful (yi ounce) butter. 

1 tablespoonful lyi ounce) lard. 

2 eggs. 

^i cupful (i>^ gills) honey. 
5 tablespoonfuls milk. 
Sift salt, Ryzon and flour into a basin. Rub in 
butter and lard with finger tips, add eggs well 
beaten, and honey mixed with milk. Mix well 
and divide into greased and floured gem pans, 
filling them half full and bake in a moderate oven 
for fifteen minutes. Sufficient for twelve gems. 

RYZON BRAN GEMS 

BY MRS. M. J. HARDING, DETROIT, MICH. 

^ cupful {yi ounce) bran. 
X cupful (2 ounces) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
X level teaspoonful salt. 

3 level tablespoonfuls {\yi ounces) sugar. 
% cupfuls (i>| giUs) milk. 

1 egg. 

Mix dry ingredients and add to weU-beaten egg 
and miUc. Put into well-greased gem pans and 
bake in hot oven. Sufficient for eight gems. 

RYZON GLUTEN GEMS 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (10 ounces) gluten flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

1 egg. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 

Sift flour, Ryzon and salt together into a basin, 
add egg well beaten, and milk. Use scant measure 
of milk. Beat well, and pour into hot, greased 
gem pans, and bake in a quick oven for twelve to 
fifteen minutes. Sufficient for twelve gems. 

RYZON WHOLE WHEAT ROLLS 
5 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

1 levfil teaspoonful salt. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) whole wheat flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls {\yi ounces) butter. 
I egg. 

I cupful (X pint) milk. 

Sift flour, Ryzon and salt into a basin, add 
whole wheat flour and mix thoroughly together. 
Rub in butter, add one-half of egg beaten and 
mixed with milk, and mix to a soft dough; turn 
onto a floured -baking board and knead lightly for 
a few minutes. Shape dough into rolls, and place 
them on a greased baking tin; brush them over 
with remainder of beaten egg, and bake in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes. 

Sufficient for twelve rolls. 



RYZON RAISIN ROLLS 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (yi pound) flour. 
yi level teaspooiif ul salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls {lyi ounces) butter. 
I egg. 

yi cupful {yi pint) milk (scant). 
I level cupfiil {yi pound) seeded and 
chopped raisins. 

3 level tablespoonfuls {\yi ounces) sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

Sift flour with Ryzon and salt twice, then rub 
in butter lightly with tips of flngers and add one- 
half of egg well beaten, and milk. Turn out onto 
a floured baking board, knead lightly, roU to one- 
fourth inch thickness, brush over with melted 
butter, sprinkle over this, raisins, sugar and cin- 
namon; roU up like a jelly roll, brush over with 
remainder of egg, sprinkle with sugar and cut 
into pieces three-fourths of an inch in thickness, 
lay on greased tins, and bake in a hot oven for 
twelve to fifteen minutes. Sufficient for twelve 
rolls. 

Raisins are one of the foods of which more 
should be known; they are fifty per cent, more 
nourishing than meat and far more healthful and 
natural. Raisins are not only a great system 
builder, they are also one of the best fruit tonics 
known, and in purity stand almost alone. 

RYZON MARMALADE BUNS 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonfvd salt. 
6 tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) butter. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 
I egg. 

yi cupful {yi pint) milk. 
I teaspoonful orange extract. 
Marmalade, orange or grapefruit. 

Sift together flour, Ryzon and salt; next cut 
and rub in butter and add sugar. Beat up egg, 
add extract and milk, and stir these into the other 
ingredients, making the whole to a stiff paste. 

Divide the mixture into fourteen or sixteen 
pieces, shape each into a neat ball, make a small 
hole in the middle, put in a little marmalade, and 
close it up again. Place the buns on greased 
baking tins with the sides which have the holes 
downwards. Brush over with a little milk and 
sprinkle with fine sugar. Bake in a hot oven for 
twenty minutes. 

Any preferred preserve may be used in place of 
the marmalade. 

Sufficient for fourteen or sixteen buns. 



22 



RYZON SCOTCH WHOLEWHEAT SCONES 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls {}^ pound) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt, 
ij^ level cupfuls (6 ozs.) wholewheat flour. 
^2 cupful (4 ounces) butter. 
^ cupful (2 ounces) sugar. 
I egg. 
^ cupful (i>^ gills) milk. 

Sift flour, salt and Ryzon and add wholewheat 
flour; rub in the butter with the tips of the 
fingers, or cut in with a knife, and add the sugar. 
Beat up egg, add milk, and pour among the dry 
ingredients, making them into a soft dough. 

Knead the dough lightly and divide it into two 
pieces. Make each piece into a smooth round, 
roU out and cut into six pieces.. Lay on greased 
tins and bake in a moderately heated oven for 
twenty minutes. Brush over the tops with 
sweetened milk a few minutes before they are 
quite done, and return to the oven to finish 
baking. Sufficient for twelve scones. 

RYZON QUICK SALLY LUNN 

BY MRS. A. M. CRUM, FLORENCE, ALA. 

I egg. 

1 level tablespoonful (}4 ounce) shortening. 

2 level cupfuls {}4 pound) flour. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level tablespoonful (}4 ounce) sugar. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 

Beat egg, sift flour, sugar, salt and Ryzon 
together, add shortening, then flour and thin 
down with milk. Grease muffin rings or a small 
pan — bake in a quick oven. Serve while hot. 

Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON HOT WALNUT SANDWICHES 

by MRS. REYNOLDS CASEY, FLUSHING, MICH. 

2 level cupfuls (^ pound) flour. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
fi level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) shortening. 

J^ cupful (i }4 gills) milk. 

)4 cupful (2 ounces) chopped walnuts. 

Sift together flour, salt and Ryzon into mixing 
bowl. Cut in shortening, add milk and mix. 
Turn out on well-floured board and roll quite 
thin, sprinkle walnuts on half of the dough, 
folding the other half over, then cut with a biscuit 
cutter and bake in a quick oven. 

Sufficient for twelve biscuits. 



RYZON VIRGINIA CORN CAKES 

2 eggs. 
. ' ^ cupful {i)4 gills) milk. 
J4 level tablespoonful sugar. 
. J^ cupful (i^gills) canned corn. 
I level tablespoonful Ryzon. 
I level cupful (J4 pound) flour. 
^ level teaspoonful salt. 
Beat up eggs, add milk and sugar; stir in 
canned corn. Sift flour, Ryzon and salt together 
and stir them into the corn mixture, and drop 
into buttered muffin rings on a buttered pan and 
bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Sufficient for ten cakes. 

RYZON QUICK COFFEE CAKE 

by MRS. MEHMERT, OLNEY, ILL. 

i}4 level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour, 
j^ cupful (^ pound) sugar. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
>^ teaspoonful salt. 
}4 cupful (X pint) milk. 
}4 cupful (4 ounces) raisins. 

I egg well beaten. 

1 tablespoonful {}4 ounce) melted butter. 
Sift flour, salt and Ryzon. Add milk, raisins, 

well-beaten egg and melted butter. Beat all to- 
gether. Pour into baking pan and sprinkle well 
with cinnamon, sugar and lumps of butter on top. 
Bake in moderate oven from twenty to thirty 
minutes. Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON BUTTERMILK WAFFLES 

2 eggs. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) sour milk or buttermilk. 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (^ pound) flour. 
}4 cupful {i}4 ounces) corn meal. 

I level teaspoonful salt. 

I level teaspoonful sugar. 

I tablespoonful (}4 ounce) lard. 

I tablespoonful (^ ounce) butter. 

I level teaspoonful baking soda. 

I tablespoonful warm water. 

Beat eggs light, add iriilk, flour sifted with corn 

meal, Ryzon, salt and sugar; melt lard and 

butter, add them with soda dissolved in warm 

water. Mix carefully and cook on weU-greased 

waffie irons. Serve hot with butter and syrup. 

Sufficient for sixteen individual waffles. 

Waffles are artistically shaped pancakes as to 

their constitution, and, like these, admit of 

interesting and even greater variations. Their 

name in Old French was waufre, which has 

developed into gaufre and gauffre. The word is 

related to the German Wabe, honeycomb, and 

as such would be derived from the shape of the 

waffle, which represents a large-celled honeycomb. 




RYZON WAFFLES— Master Recipe 
By Jessie A. Long, Instructor in Cookery, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 



Master Recipe 
RYZON WAFFLES 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls {}4 pound) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
2 eggs — separated. 
I }4 cupfuls {H pint) milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) melted butter. 

Mix flour with Ryzon and salt and sift into 
bowl. Beat yolks of eggs, add butter and milk. 
Add this mixture gradually to dry ingredients, 
beating thoroughly. When well mixed fold in 
the stiiHy beaten whites of eggs. Pour from a 
pitcher into the center of a hot, well-greased 
waffle iron. Serve with melted butter and maple 
syrup or with cinnamon and sugar. Other fat 
may be used in place of butter but the waffles will 
not brown as well. 



Preparation of Waffle Iron: — Heat the 
iron on both sides thoroughly. Grease the iron 
with a piece of salt pork or a padded fork dipped 
into bacon drippings. Reverse the iron to dis- 
tribute the fat evenly. Open, and fill the iron 
two-thirds full. Cover and cook about one min- 
ute on one side, then turn and cook a little longer 
on the other side. 

This amount will fill waffle iron six times. 

This recipe may be varied by substituting ^ 
cupful cold boiled rice in place of I cupful wheat 
flour, and in this way save flour for the govern- 
ment while still serving delicious waffles. 

As a breakfast or luncheon dish waffles are 
well known. Equallj. welcome are the waffles 
served with hot chocolate or coffee in the after- 
noon, or for an after theatre supper, especially 
when the use of an electric waffle iron makes 
baking at the table possible. 



24 




RYZON WHITE FLOUR GRIDDLE CAKES— Master Recipe 
By Mary Mason Wright, Cooking Expert of "The Designer" 



Special Recipe 
RYZON RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

I level cupful (K pound) flour. 
J^ cupful {iH gills) cooked rice. 
3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I egg well beaten. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level teaspoonfuls (^ ounce) sugar. 
)4 cupful (i gill) milk. 

I tablespoonful (}4 ounce) melted butter. 

Mix and sift flour, salt, sugar and Ryzon. Add 
rice and melted butter, the egg (well beaten) and 
milk to make the batter. Beat well. Cook at 
once on a hot, well-greased griddle. Serve hot 
with butter and syrup. The addition of an ex- 
tra egg makes these griddle cakes unusually de- 
licious. 

Sufficient for ten griddle cakes. 



Master Recipe 
RYZON WHITE FLOUR GRIDDLE CAKES 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
3 level cupfuls (H pound) flour. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 
3 eggs — ^separated. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 

I tablespoonful (J4 ounce) butter. 

Melt butter. Mix flour, Ryzon, and salt to- 
gether, and sift into a basin. Beat up yolks and 
whites of eggs separately. Add yolks to milk, 
then add butter. Gradually add hour and beat 
up into a smooth batter, then fold in whites of 
eggs. Turn batter into a wide-mouthed pitcher 
and pour into a hot, well-greased griddle, to the 
size of a saucer. When nicely browned on one 
side turn with cake turner. When browned on 
other side remove to a hot dish. 
Serve hot with butter and syrup, or 
sugar and milk, as desired.^ 




^.-5S^ 



RYZON RICE GRIDDLE CAKES ^Special Recipe 
By Mrs. Inglis H. Brown, Lexington, Mass. 

~2i 



RYZON BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

5 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) buckwheat 

flour. 
I level cupful (^ pound) flour. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 
I tablespoonful molasses. 
2)4 cupfuls (iX pints) milk. 

1 cupful (JS^ pint) water. 

Mix buckwheat flour, Ryzon, flour, and salt 
and sift them into a bowl; add milk, water, and 
molasses, and beat well. Cook at once on a hot, 
well-greased griddle. Serve hot with butter and 
syrup. These cakes are excellent with fried 
sausages. If liked, a well-beaten egg may be 
added to the batter. 

Sufficient for thirty-five cakes. 

N. B.— See Master White Flour Griddle Cake 
Recipe on page 25. 

RYZON HOOVER PANCAKES 

BY MRS. E. D. COLE, BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) buttermilk— or sour milk. 

1 level cupful {]4 pint) stale bread crumbs. 
^ cupful (6 ounces) corn meal. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 

yi level teaspoonful soda. 
I tablespoonful molasses. 

1 cupful {yi pint) boiling water. 

Soak crums in milk for half hour, scald corn 
meal with one cupful boiling water, cool, add 
crums soaked in milk, soda dissolved in one tea- 
spoonful hot water, stir in Ryzon, mix all thor- 
oughly and bake on hot, well-greased griddle. 
Serve with syrup, honey, jam or fruit butters. 

(Any left over cereal may be used in place of 
crumbs.) Sufficient for twenty pancakes. 

RYZON PEA PANCAKES 

by forecast MODERN SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) peas (dried). 
2 egg whites. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) flour. 

1 cupful {yi pint) milk. 

2 egg yolks. 
Pepper. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter or 

fat. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

To make this recipe it is best to use the split 
pea, which can be secured either in bulk or pack- 
age form. These peas cook in an hour's time 
after soaking. 



When the peas are tender, put through a food 
chopper and mix the ingredients. A table- 
spoonful of this mixture placed on a hot griddle 
or frying pan makes a good-sized pancake. 

If a richer pancake is desired than the one 
suggested in this recipe, one-quarter pound 
salt pork may be boiled and ground with the 
peas. 

The residue strained from pea soup may be 
economically used for the above. 

Sufficient for t wel ve pancakes. 

RYZON FRENCH PANCAKES 

i level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

3 level tablespoonfuls(i>^ozs.) potato flour. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) sugar, 
5 eggs. 

I tablespoonful water. 
I cupful {% pint) milk. 
Apple or currant jeUy. 

Sift flour, Ryzon, and sugar into a bowl, add 
eggs well beaten, water and milk, and beat for 
ten minutes. Grease well the inside of a small 
frying pan, and place it over a moderate fire. 
When it is sufficiently hot, pour in enough of the 
batter to cover the surface of pan. When cooked 
spread with jeUy, and fold into rolls. Serve hot. 
They may be used as a dessert, sprinkled with 
powdered sugar, and a few drops of lemon juice. 

Sufficient for ten pancakes. 

RYZON CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level cupful (5 ounces) corn meal. 

1 level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls salt. 

3 eggs. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 

Mix Ryzon, corn meal, salt, and flour together, 
and sift them into a bowl. Beat up eggs, add 
milk, and combine the two mixtures. If liked, a 
tablespoonful of molasses may be added to the 
batter. Heat a griddle and grease it with a piece 
of fat. Pour the cakes on the griddle from a large 
spoon or from a pitcher. When the cakes are full 
of bubbles, tvurn with a broad knife, and brown 
the other side. Wipe griddle with a dry cloth 
and grease again after each baking. One of the 
eggs may be omitted, and y^ level teaspoonful 
Ryzon added. 

Sufficient for forty cakes. 



26 



RYZON BLUEBERRY GRIDDLE CAKES 

BY MRS. HERMAN WADDY, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

2 level cupfuls (5^ pound) flour. 

4 level teaspoonfuls RyzoN. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. 

l}4 cupfuls (^ pint) milk. 
2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 
I tablespoonful {}4 ounce) melted butter. 
I cupful canned blueberries (or other 
fruit). 

Beat eggs in mixing bowl, add milk, then add 
flour, Ryzon, salt and sugar which have been 
sifted together, adding melted butter last. Beat 
■until it is a smooth batter, then add fruit. Pour 
batter into a pitcher and pour on a well-greased 
hot griddle to the size of a small saucer. When 
nicely browned turn and brown on other side. 
These are delicious served with cream and sugar. 

Sufficient for twenty griddle cakes. 

RYZON FRITTERS 

RYZON APRICOT FRITTERS 

BY MRS. ANNA TACKMEYER, NEW YORK CITY 

1 level cupful {}i pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 

I egg. 

yi cupful {}4 gill) milk. 
I cupful {yi pint) stewed apricots. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add egg and milk 
and apricots. Drop mixture from tablespoon into 
deep hot fat. Fry until a golden brown. Drain, 
roU in powdered sugar and serve. 

Sufficient for twelve fritters. 

RYZON CLAM FRITTERS 

BY MISS RUTH FREDERICKS, OAK RIDGE, N. J. 

1 level cupful {}4 pound) flour. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. 

K level teaspoonful pepper. 
Ji cupful (K gill) milk. 
I cupful (>s pint) chopped clams. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add eggs, milk 
and clams. Mix thoroughly and drop by table- 
spoonfuls into deep hot fat. Fry until a deep 
brown. Serve hot. 

Sufficient for fourteen fritters. 



RYZON ECONOMY FRITTERS 

BY MRS. W. H. FRICKEY, ROCHESTER, N. Y. 

I cupful (^ pint) corn (that has been left 

over). 
I egg. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

1 level tablespoonful {yi ounce) sugar. 
yi cupful (i gill) sweet milk. 

I yi cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

Beat egg, add salt, sugar, corn and milk, then 
flour and Ryzon sifted together. Drop by 
spoonfuls into hot fat. Serve with honey or 
syrup. 

(Bits of ham or cold meat may be used in place 
of corn.) 

Sufficient for twelve fritters. 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 

BY MRS. 'B. M. SMYTH, ORANGE, N. J. 

I small pineapple. 

1 level cupful {yi pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce scant) pow- 
dered sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I beaten egg. 
}i cupful {yi gill) milk. 
I tablespoonful lemon juice. 
Lemon Sauce: 

I level tablespoonful cornstarch. 

1 level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) boiling water. 

1 lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

For Fritters: — Peel pineapple (avoiding out- 
side skin and core), and grate thoroughly; mix 
and sift dry ingredients, add egg and milk, and 
pineapple mixed with lemon juice. Drop mixture 
from tip of tablespoon into plenty of smoking 
fat and fry until a golden brown color. 

Drain and serve with the sauce. 

For Sauce: — Mix cornstarch and sugar in 
saucepan, add water and cook for twenty minutes. 
Add grated rind and strained juice of lemon and 
butter, and serve very hot. 

Sufficient for fourteen fritters. 

N. B.— See Master Fritter Batter Recipe on 
page 28. 



Master Recipe 
RYZON DELICATE FRITTER BATTER 

iK level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 

2 level tablespoonfuls {i4 ounce) cornstarch. 
4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) sugar. 

}4 level teaspoonful salt. 

I egg — separated. 

J4 cupful (}4 gill) milk (generous). 

I tablespoonful olive oil. 

Mix flour, Ryzon, cornstarch, salt and sugar 
and sift three times. Beat yolk and white of egg 
separately. Add beaten yolk and milk alter- 
nately to flour mixture; then add oil and beat 
until smooth. Finally fold in stiffly beaten egg 
white. Drop by spoonfuls into plenty of hot, 
but not smoking, fat. Fry golden brown, turn, 
drain out with a skimmer, and lay on absorbent 
paper. Trim and dust with powdered sugar and 
serve at once. 

Use this batter for plain fritters and for fruit 
and sweet fritters of all kinds. In using vege- 
tables or shell fish, etc., omit the sugar. Thin 
slightly with milk when used with any filling. 
Whole canned fruits drained from syrup, apple 



rings, bananas, etc., may be used for filling; or 
oysters, clams, etc. 

Sufficient for ten large fritters. 

Banana pRiTTERS Supreme: — Cut ripe bana- 
nas in half lengthwise, then crosswise. Soak 
for one hour in lemon juice and sugar to taste. 
Thin the above batter slightly with milk, dip in 
each section of banana and fry in hot fat. Drain 
and serve with melted currant jelly. 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON HOMINY FRITTERS 

BY MRS. J. J. O'CONNELL, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) cold cooked hominy. 

2 eggs. 

}4 cupful (l gill) milk. 

X level teaspoonful salt. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I K level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
}4 cupful (2 ounces) chopped cooked ham. 

Put homiijy into a bowl, add eggs well beaten, 
milk, salt, ham, and Ryzon sifted with flour. 
Beat thoroughly and drop by large spoonfuls 
into plenty of smoking hot fat. Fry until nicely 
browned, then drain on paper and serve hot. 

Sufficient for fifteen fritters. 




RYZON DELICATE FRITTER BATTER— Master Recipe 
By Mrs. Christine Filedeeick, Consulting Household Engineer 




Chapter III 

Ryzon Cakes 

F all the different branches of cookery the making of cakes is undoubtedly the most 
popular. 

It is practically impossible to buy cakes that are equal to well-made home-baked 
ones, and so they are always appreciated. The secrets of success are, care in following 
the recipe exactly, and attention to the simple rules of mixing and baking. 

With all cookery, method and order are great points to be considered. Have every- 
thing in readiness before you begin to mix a cake, for it may be spoiled if you have to stop mixing or 
beating to prepare an ingredient. First study and set your recipes to hand. Put out measuring cups, 
boards, knives, egg beaters, flour sifters, pastry brushes, bowls, basins, cake tins, and scales and weights. 
Measure or weigh the quantities required. Pay attention to the oven and see that it is likely to be 
sufficiently hot by the time the cake is ready for it. 

Then get ready the necessary cake tin or tins, and prepare them in a manner suited to the kind of 
cake to be made. 

The measuring cup should hold one-half pint. All measurements are level. All materials are meas- 
ured level, i. e., by filling spoon or cup more than full and leveling with the back of knife. 

Flour, meal, sugar, baking powder, and spices are measured after one sifting and heaped into the 
measure lightly. This is of importance in making good cakes. Flour should not be shaken down into 
the measuring cup. Flours vary in thickening qualities, therefore the exact amount of liquid cannot 
always be given. 

It is very important to have the flour dry, as damp flour would render any cake heavy. 

There are three ways of mixing. Stirring, beating, and cutting or folding. 

To stir: — Let the spoon touch the sides and bottom of the bowl and move it round quickly in circles 
of various sizes. Do not lift it out of the mixture, and work well against the sides. 

To beat: — Tip the bowl to one side. Bring the spoon or fork quickly into the mixture and through 
it, take it out the other side and bring it over and down again scraping the sides well each time it goes 
in. It is important to keep the bowl of the spoon well scraped, out during mixing. Beat hard and 
quickly. 

To cut or fold: — Turn over the mixture with a spoon or knife and lifl it up, folding in as lightly as 
possible. Do not stir or beat but mix very gently until quite blended. 

To beat butter: — In beating butter to a cream, if very hard it can be slightly warmed in the oven 
or put into a hot bowl, but it must on no account be melted. The best method is to soften hard butter 
by putting it through the food chopper. The sugar may be heated and added to the butter. 

Inferior or tainted butter should never be used for cakes. If butter is employed it must be good, 
sweet butter being the best. If the butter is very salt it will be better to wash it in cold water, and 
dry it in a floured cloth before using. 

For many of the plainer cakes, and especially when baking for large families, or where expense has 
to be considered, a cheaper kind of fat may be substituted for butter. Lard, beef drippings, beef marrow, 
margarine, or one of the different vegetable fats now on the market will generally answer the purpose. 

Eggs must be fresh and good but not necessarily new laid. Well-preserved eggs serve the purpose 
excellently. They should always be broken separately into a small cup or bowl before adding them to 
the mixture. 

With regard to sugars— always brown sugar for rich cakes that you want dark in color. Use granu- 
lated sugar for other cakes except where otherwise stated, and always sift it before use. 

— 



Fruit must be thoroughly dried before being used if it has been necessary to wash it, and floured be- 
fore adding to the mixture. 

To free currants from stalks, put them in a colander, look them over carefully, and remove any 
stones. Rub the fruit, and the little stalks will fall through the holes if the colander is shaken. Sul- 
tanas will need picking, as the stalks are larger. 

Seed raisins and cut them in halves. 

Candied peel looks nicest and goes farthest if cut into thin strips instead of being chopped. 

Almonds should be blanched. Pour boiling water upon them, leave them to soak for a few minutes, 
then rub ofl the skins and put them into cold water to whiten; dry, cut into thin strips or chop them. 

Only the yellow part of the lemon rind should be grated and used. To obtain the juice of a lemon, 
first roll it backwards and forwards on a board to soften it. Then cut in halves, and squeeze out the 
juice with the back of a wooden spoon or on a lemon squeezer; strain before using. 

Though there is no limit to the variety of cakes that can be made, the greater number may be classi- 
fied under one of four general heads: 

1. Pound Cakes: — ^As the name implies, the typical pound cake has equal weight of various ingredi- 
ents, a pound to a pound of sugar, butter, eggs, flour, fruit, etc. Though this proportion is not always 
followed, a pound cake has always a considerable quantity of butter, eggs, and sugar. The usual 
method of mixing is, therefore, to beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add eggs and flour alter- 
nately, beating the mixture well between each addition. Last of all, the fruit and flavoring are added. 
Much of the success of these cakes depends upon good beating so as to blend ingredients and to enclose 
as much air as possible. Pound cakes need very careful baking — a moderate and uniform heat of oven 
for a considerable time, then gradually decreasing heat is essential. 

2. Plain Cakes:— These, containing as they do a smaller proportion of eggs and butter, are generally 
mixed by rubbing the shortening into the sugar, then the dry ingredients are mixed in and the whole 

■ made into a paste with beaten eggs and other liquids. These cakes are not made so moist as pound 
cake, and generally require rather quicker baking. Individual recipes may give individual ways of 
mixing. 

3. Sponge Cakes: — The chief ingredients of the best quality of sponge cake are eggs and sugar; 
flour must be used, but its weight is relatively small. Strictly speaking, a sponge cake contains no 
butter, and for this reason can be given to invalids and children to whom butter after cooking would 
be indigestible. 

The usual method of mixing is to beat the eggs and sugar until light and creamy, this is sometimes 
done over gentle heat; just before baking, the sifted flour and flavoring are carefully mixed in. If 
butter is used, it is first melted, and, when cool, but still liquid, added to the mixture. When baking, 
very moderate and yet uniform heat is required. 

4. Gingerbreads: — See page 52. 

The baking of cakes is one of the most difficult parts of cake making. No matter how carefully the 
mixture has been prepared, the success or failure of the cake will very much depend upon the proper 
regulation of ^he heat of the oven. Ovens require very close observance; some are inclined to burn 
at the bottom, while in others the top is the hottest part, and it is only by experience and careful watch- 
ing that the faults and capabilities of individual ovens can be learned. 

The most correct way of gauging the heat of an oven is with the thermometer. The degrees of heat 
would be nearly the following: 

From 400° to 450° — A hot oven. 

From 300° to 350° — A moderate oven. 

From 250° to 275° — A slow oven. 

There are also one or two popular tests which may be applied by novices, such as the following: 
Sprinkle a little dry flour on a tin and place it in the oven. If there is sufficient heat to bake a cake, this 



will be brown in about five minutes. Or, put a piece of white paper in the oven, and if at the end of 
five minutes it is a good yellow color, the heat is moderate and suitable for most cakes. 

After a very little experience the heat of the oven can easily be judged by simply feeling it with the 
hand. 

A cake to be baked to perfection should rise evenly and be smooth on the top, and by the time it has 
been in the oven half its time a light brown crust should be formed. Owing to the variations in the 
heat of an ordinary oven, it is not always possible to arrive at this g^lnt of perfection; still, by careful 
manipulation, it may be aimed at. 

When a cake rises in a cone in the center it shows that the oven has been too hot in the commence- 
ment, with the result that the sides of the cake become hardened with a crust before the mixture has 
had time to rise. If the cake seems inclined to rise at one side, it shows that the oven is hotter on one 
side than the other, and this fault may be obviated to a certain extent by turning the cake carefully 
during the baking. When a cake shows signs of becoming sufficiently brown before it is ready, it 
should be covered with a double fold of greased or wetted kitchen paper. 

Be sure the cake is sufficiently cooked before removing it from the oven. Small cakes are ready if 
they feel firm when gently touched with the finger. Larger cakes should be tested by running a bright 
and heated skewer into the center of them. If the skewer comes out sticky the cake is not cooked 
enough, but if it is dry and undimmed the baking is finished. Cakes should be allowed to- stand for 
two or three minutes before removing them from the tin; they will then come out more easily. They 
should be cooled on a wire stand or sieve or stood on end so that the air gets around the bottom and 
side. When cold, put into dry and air-tight tins. 



RYZON LOAF CAKES 



RYZON RICH WEDDING CAKE 

lyi level cupfuls (J^ pound) butter. 
I >^ level cupfuls (J^ pound) sugar. 

2 lemons. 

2 oranges. 

1 nutmeg, grated. 

I }4 level teaspoonf uls powdered ginger. 
I yi level teaspoonf uls powdered cinnamon. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered allspice. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered mace. 
6 eggs — separated. 
^4 cupful (l gill) brandy or fruit juice. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) shredded glace 

cherries. 

3 level cupfuls (^ pound) currants. 
i}4 level cupfuls (J^ pound) seeded raisins. 
lyi level cupfuls (9 ounces) sultana raisins. 

3 level cupfuls {yi pound) shredded candied 

citron peel. 
3 level cupfuls (J^ pound) ground almonds. ' 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

I level cupful (>^ pound) rice flour. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 

Cream butter, add gradually sugar, the grated 

rinds of lemons and oranges and spices, and beat 

for fifteen minutes, then add yolks of eggs, two 

by two, salt and brandy or fruit juice; stir in 



fruit, nuts, and peel, then sift in flour, rice flour 
and Ryzon. Beat up whites of eggs and add 
them by degrees to mixture. Turn into a large 
papered tin, and bake carefully in a moderate 
oven for six hours. Put the cake aside until next 
day, then cover it over with frosting, leave until 
set, then ornament with icing in any pretty de- 
sign, using an icing bag and tube. 

Sufficient for one large cake. 

Icing: — See page 44. 

RYZON GOLD CAKE 

yi cupful (2 ounces) butter. 
^ cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 

5 egg yolks. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I level cupful {yi pound) flour. 

I pinch salt. 
yi cupful {% gill) milk. 
yi teaspoonful orange extract. 

Cream butter, add gradually sugar, and when 
thoroughly creamed, add yolks of eggs, well 
beaten. Sift flour, Ryzon and salt together, and 
add, alternately with milk, to egg mixture. Stir 
in extract, and turn into a well-greased and 
floured small, square, loaf pan. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven for thirty minutes. Sufficient for 
small cake. 



-fSi^— T - 




KYZON BABA— First Prize Recipe 
By Mks. Percy Ddvali., Dower House, Rosaryville, Maryland 



First Prize Recipe 
RYZON BABA 

The Baba is a cake of Polish origin. It was 
made known in France by Stanislas Leczinsky. 
The descendants of this King always ate the baba 
with a sauce made of sweetened wine mixed with 
one-sixteenth part of distilled water of tansy. 
So far as the judges know Mrs. Duvall's Ryzon 
Baba is the first one made with baking powder. 
First prize recipe for Ryzon Baba follows: 

4 eggs — not separated. 
I yi level cupfuls {^ pound) sugar. 

}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
I yi cupfuls {% pint) sweet milk. 

3 level cupfuls C^ pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

^ level teaspoonful powdered mace. 

}i cupful ( ji pound) butter. 



yi cupful (2 ounces) shredded candied citron 
peel. 
Sauce: 

I level cupful {}4 pound) sugar. 
yi cupful (i gill) water. 
I wineglassful rum or yi teaspoonful vanilla 
extract and }4 teaspoonful lemon ex- 
tract. 

For Baba: — Beat eggs and sugar together until , 
very light, remove beater, add salt, milk, flour 
sifted with Ryzon, and mace, and add citron. 
Melt butter in a large turkshead baking pan (with 
a central opening). When melted, add butter 
carefully to batter, and pour batter into mold. 
Bake in a steady, fairly hot oven, for one hour, 
taking care to turn cake several times. This mix- 
ture is a thin batter and requires a slower oven 
than the usual "rusk." When done, try it with a 
straw; if straw comes out clean, remove baba from 



mold onto plate on which it is to be served. Care 
should be taken that the cake mold is very well 
greased, especially the center "piece." 

For Rum Sauce;— Put sugar and water into 
an enameled saucepan, bring to boiling point and 
boil until syrup spins a thread, or 218' F. by 
candy thermometer. Then add rum, or extracts, 
and cool slightly. Dip baba into syrup while it 
is hot, or ladle syrup over baba with spoon or 
broad knife, or brush on syrup. Fruit juice may 
be used in place of rum, or the following choco- 
late sauce may be used by those who prefer it to 
the rum sauce. 

For Chocolate Sauce: — Put one level cupful 
sugar into a saucepan, add one cupful of milk, 
one-fourth cupful butter, and boil together until 
"half done," about ten minutes, but boil "hard," 
not gently. Add one-fourth cake (or one-half 
cake, if desired bitter) chocolate, cut into fairly 
small pieces. Stand on side of stove until en- 
tirely melted, but do not boil again, as the deli- 
cate flavor of chocolate is lost by boiling. Add 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla extract, and pour 
over cake one spoonful at a time. 

Sift powdered sugar over the slightly sticky 
top before carrying to table. If desired, the 
center may be filled with stewed fruits. 

The baba mixture may be divided into two 
molds. The baba may also be used for a pud- 
ding. In this case the cake is saturated with rum 
sauce, or orange syrup, and served with another 
sauce over and around base. Thin custard or 
apricot sauce are appropriate sauces. When a 
baba has not been consumed fresh, it may be cut 
in slices, dipped in fruit juice, covered with a 
batter, and fried. 

Sufficient -for one large cake. 

RYZON SETON FRUIT CAKE 

2 level cupfuls (l pint) dried apples. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) molasses. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) butter. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) lard. 

2 level cupfuls (i pound) sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 cupful {yi pint) milk. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

5 level cupfuls (i^ pounds) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

I level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

I level teaspoonful powdered allspice. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered mace. 
y^ level teaspoonful powdered cloves. 

I level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 
t I level cupful (8 ounces) seeded raisins. 



I level cupful (6 ounces) sultana raisins. 
yi. cupful (2 ounces) shredded candied cit- 
ron peel. 
yi level teaspoonful baking soda. 

Pick over and wash apples, then cover them 
with cold water and soak over night. Press out 
as much water as possible, chop them fine, and 
put them into a saucepan with molasses and stew 
slowly for two hours. Turn out to cool. Cream 
butter, lard, and sugar thoroughly together, add 
the eggs well beaten, milk and flour and beat hard 
for five minutes. Now add the spices, salt, 
raisins, apples, citron, soda dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of water, and Ryzon. Mix and divide 
into two buttered and floured cake tins and bake 
in a moderate oven for one and one-half hours. 

Sufficient for two medium-sized cakes. 

RYZON BIRTHDAY CAKE 

1 cupful (yi pound) butter. 

2 level •cupfuls (i pound) sugar. 
4 eggs. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

I level cupful (6 ozs.) sultana raisins. 
yi cupful (2 ozs.) currants. 
yi cupful (2 ozs. ) shredded candied citron peel. 

I wineglassf ul brandy or fruit juice. 

4 level cupfuls (l pound) flour. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi, level teaspoonful salt. 

I level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 
Boiled frosting. 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs, 
one at a time, and beat well, now add milk, fruit, 
brandy or fruit juice, and flour sifted with Ryzon, 
salt and nutmeg. Pour into a well-greased and 
papered caVe tin and bake in a moderate oven for 
two hours. Turn out, cool, and cover with boiled 
frosting, given on page 44. If liked, this cake 
may be decorated with tiny shamrocks and 
candles. Sufficient for fourteen to sixteen persons. 




Prize Recipe 
RYZON WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

BY MRS. HARRY BURGESS, NASHVILLE, TENN. 

I cupful {}4 pound) butter. 

3 level cupfuis {i}4 pounds) sugar. 

8 eggs, separated. 

1 cupful (K pint) milk. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon 

3K level cupfuis (14 ounces) flour. 
% level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

1 level teaspoonful powdered mace. 
yi level teaspoonful salt 

2 cocoanuts, grated. 

6 level cupfuis (i }4 lbs.) shredded candied 
citron peel. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly together, 
add beaten yolks of eggs, milk, flour sifted with 
Ryzon, spices and salt, whites of eggs stiffly 
beaten, cocoanuts and peel. 

Mix carefully and turn into a greased and 
floured cake tin and bake in a moderate oven for 
one and one-fourth hours. See page 44 for icings. 

Sufficient for twelve to fifteen persons. 

Prize Recipe 

RYZON POLISH GUEST CAKE 
A LA RESZKE 

BY MRS. HULDA THOMPSON, NEW YORK CITY 

I large navel orange. 

8 eggs. 
2^ cupfuis (i pound) powdered sugar. 

I box (i pound) fine matzoth meal. 
yi cupful (X pound) sweet butter. 
Pinch salt. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

First butter a cake mold very thickly with 
sweet butter, cold and not melted. Wash and 
dry orange and grate it (skin and pulp) into a 
large mixing bowl. Add yolks of eggs, mix well, 
then add gradually pinch of salt, and sugar. Sift 
one box of fine matzoth meal and mix with 
Ryzon. Now beat up whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth and stir lightly into orange mixture, add 
meal and turn into the prepared mold and bake 
in moderate oven until ready. 

This cake should be a nice brown on the top 
and it should tae tested with a straw taken from 
a new broom. 

This recipe was a favorite in the family of the 
famous singers, the de Reszke brothers, and was 
frequently served at the four o'clock coffee re- 
ceptions given by Mme. Kronberg, nee de 
Reszke, at her Warsaw palace. 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON MARYLAND BLACK CAKE 

BY MRS. JULIUS SNOWDEN, LAUREL, MD. 

I cupful {yi pound) butter. 
2}i level cupfuis (l pound) brown sugar. 
I nutmeg, grated. 

I level dessertspoonful (2 level teaspoon- 
fuls) powdered cinnamon. 
I level teaspoonful powdered cloves. 

1 level tablespoonful powdered ginger. 
6 eggs, separated. 

2j4 level cupfuis (10 ounces) flour. 
4 level cupfuis (2 pounds) seeded raisins. 
6 level cupfuis (lyi pounds) currants. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
}4 cupful (i gill) molasses. 

}4 cupful (i gill) sherry wine or fruit juice. 
4 level cupfuis (i pound) shredded candied 
citron peel. 
Cream butter well ; add one-half of sugar mixed 
with spices and mix well, now add remainder of 
sugar mixed with beaten yolks of eggs, and beat 
for five minutes. Beat up whites of eggs and add 
them to mixture. Now add flour mixed with 
currants and raisins cut in halves, Ryzon mixed 
with molasses and wine. Mix carefully and place 
one-fourth of this mixture in a large cake pan 
lined with greased paper, then sprinkle in a layer 
of citron. Repeat until batter and citron are all 
used. Bake in a moderate oven for four hours. 
Cover cake with greased paper while baking as 
it burns easily. It may be necessary to put a 
pan of hot water in the oven to moderate the 
heat, or to place a tin or an asbestos mat under- 
neath. Sufficient for one large cake. 

RYZON OLD-FASHIONED POUND CAKE 

}i cupful {^yi ounces) butter. 
2 level cupfuis {yi pound) flour. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
Pinch salt. 

1 cupful {}4 pint) eggs — 5 eggs usually fill 
a cup; the eggs are measured before 
beating. 

lyi level cupfuis (12 ounces) sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls orange flower water. 
Cream butter with flour. Add Ryzon and salt 

to eggs and beat them very light with an egg 
beater. Add sugar gradually, and beat well, re- 
move the beater, add egg mixture to creamed 
flour, using a wooden spoon, until all is mixed. 
Add orange flower water, and beat thoroughly 
with long, light strokes. Turn into a greased and 
floured shallow cake tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for one hour. 

Sufficient for one cake (for ten to twelve 
people). 



RYZON HASTY CAKE 

yi cupful (2 ounces) butter. 

1 level cupful (yi pound) sugar. 
yi cupful (l gill) milk. 

2 egg whites. 

yi teaspoonful orange or almond extract. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I yi level cupf uls (6 ounces) flour. 
Pinch salt. 

Chocolate Frosting: 

2 squares chocolate. 

'^/i cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls milk. 

yi teaspoonful almond extract. 

2 egg yolks. 

For Cake: — ^Cream butter and sugar together, 
add milk, whites of eggs, extract, and flour sifted 
with Ryzon and salt. Beat for five minutes, then 
turn into a buttered and floured tin and bake for 
thirty-five minutes. Turn out and cool. 

For Frosting: — Melt chocolate in pan of a 
double boiler, add sugar and milk, and cook until 
smooth; add egg yolks and extract and cook for 
one minute. Spread on cake. 

Sufficient for one small cake. 

RYZON WALNUT AND CHERRY CAKE 

3 eggs. 

ya, cupful (5 ounces) sugar. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I level cupful (yi pound) flour. 

3 level tablespoonfuls (^ ounce) rice flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) butter. 
yi orange rind, grated. 

I lemon rind, grated. 
yi teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
yi teaspoonful almond extract. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) preserved cherries. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) chopped English walnut 
meats. 

Break eggs into a large basin, add sugar, and 
beat together for five minutes; then place the 
basin in a large pan of boiling water and beat 
mixture for fifteen minutes. Remove the basin 
to a table and beat for fifteen minutes or until 
the mixture is cold. Add flour sifted with rice 
flour, Ryzon and salt, butter warmed but not 
hot, grated rinds of orange and lemons, extracts, 
nuts and cherries cut in quarters. 

Mix carefully and turn into a well-greased 
and floured cake tin and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour. Allow the cake to stand for five 
minutes before being turned out of the tin, set 



it aside until cold, then cover with white frosting 
and decorate to taste with cherries and walnut 
meats. See page 38 for white frosting. 
Sufficient for one cake. 

RYZON COGOANUT CAKE 

3 tablespoonfuls {\yi ounces) butter. 

1 level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

2 eggs, separated. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

1 teaspoonful orange extract. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupf uls {yi pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I level cupful {yi pound) shredded cocoa- 
nut. 

White frosting. See page 38 for frosting. 

Beat butter and sugar until creamy; add 
yolks of eggs well beaten, milk, orange extract, 
flour sifted with Ryzon and salt; add cocoanut 
and whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn 
into a flat, buttered and floured cake tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 

Cool, cover with white frosting and sprinkle 
over with cocoanut. Sufficient for one small cake. 



RYZON PORK FRUIT CAKE 

1 pound fat pork. ' 

2 cupfuls (i pint) boiling water. 

1 level tablespoonful baking soda. 

2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) brcwn sugar. 
I cupful (yi pint) dark molasses. 

I level tablespoonful Ryzon. 

5 level cupfuls (i yi pounds) flour. 

I i level teaspoonful salt. 

I level tablespoonful grated nutmeg. 

I level tablespoonful powdered allspice. 

I level tablespoonful powdered cinnamon. 

1 level teaspoonful powdered cloves. 

2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) sultana raisins. 
2 level cupfuls (i pound) seeded raisins. 

4 level cupfuls ( l pound) currants. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) shredded candied 
citron peel. 

I level cupful {yi pound) chopped nut 
/meats. 

I level cupful {yi pound) chopped pre- 
served cherries. 

Chop pork, or put it through a meat grinder, 
add to it boiling water and allow to cool; add 
soda, sugar, molasses, flour sifted with Ryzon, 
spices, salt and fruits and nuts. Turn into a 
large buttered and papered cake tin, and bake for 
three hours, or until ready, in a moderate oven. 

No eggs are used in this cake. 

Sufficient for one large cake. 




RYZON EASILY-MADE DATE CAKE 



I 

3.. 



2 eggs. 

}^ cupful (l gill) milk. \ 

level cupful (6 ounces) brown sugar. 

cupful (2^ ounces) butter. 

level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
[ % level cupfuls (5 ounces) flour. 
\4, level teaspoonful salt. 
I level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 
)4. level teaspoonful powdered nutmeg. 
yi pound (2 cups) stoned and sliced dates, 
Whipppd cream. 

Put eggs into a basin, add milk, sugar, but- 
ter, flour sifted with Ryzon, salt and spices, add 
dates and beat all together for five minutes. 
Pour into a buttered and floured cake tin, and 
bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. 
Turn out and cut in squares, and serve with 
whipped and sweetened cream. Sufficient for 
eight squares. 



RYZON ORANGE GATEAU 

3 eggs. 

yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 

Juice of yi orange, strained. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I y^ level cupfuls (5 ounces) flour. 
y^ cupful (2 ounces) butter. 
yi cupful (l ounce) chopped candied citron 

peel. 
X cupful (i ounce) chopped cocoanut. 

Beat up eggs with sugar, add strained orange 
juice, and sift in flour with Ryzon; add butter, 
melted. Butter and flour a small round or fiat 
cake tin and put one-half of mixture into it, 
sprinkle in citron peel and cocoanut and spread 
remainder of mixture on top. Bake in a moderate 
oven for 25 minutes. Turn out and cool. Cover 
with white frosting, given on page 41, and orna- 
ment top with a Sew tiny pieces of citron peel. 

Sufficient for oiie small cake. 



RYZON PRUNE CAKE 

BY MRS. EDGAR M. HALL, OELWEIN, IOWA 

1 level cupful (yi pound) light brown sugar. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) butter and lard. 

2 eggs. 

3 tablespoonf uls sweet or sour milk. 

I level cupful {yi pound) well-cooked prunes 

cut in small pieces. 
I level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 level teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 ^ level cupfuls (7 ounces) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

Cream sugar and shortening — add eggs well 
beaten, milk and cut prunes, cinnamon and nut- 
meg, then flour and Ryzon, which have been 
sifted together. Bake as loaf cake. 

Sufficient for one medium-sized cake. 



RYZON CANADIAN WAR CAKE 

BY MRS. GERTRUDE HAIG, EDMONTON, ALBERTA, 
CANADA 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) brown sugar. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) hot water. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 

I level teaspoonful ginger. 

I level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

I level teaspoonful allspice. 

I package (l pound) seedless raisins. 

I level teaspoonul Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls (yi pound) flour. 

Boil sugar, spices, water and raisins together 
for five minutes, after it begins to bubble. When 
cold add flour and Ryzon which have been sifted 
together, turn into well-greased tin and bake 
forty-five minutes in moderate oven. 




This cake is not only delicious, but most inex- 
pensive, and well suited to war conditions. It 
will keep moist and good as long as any of it is 
left, which may not be long if there are children 
in the family. 

It is a pleasure to publish this good, whole- 
some, economical cake recipe, which will appeal 
to the housewife of today. 



36 




RYZON JELLY ROLL— Master Recipe 
By Marion Harris Neil, Cookery Expert and Author of "Salads, Sandwiches and Chafing Dish Recipes," etc. 



JELLY ROLL HINTS 

TO roll up a Jelly Roll after baking, the following method will be found of assistance- Turn the 
roll out onto a clean cloth wrung out of very hot water, and roll it up in this. The cloth must, 
of course, be wrung out as dry as possible before the cake is turned out on it. After a little 
practice, you will find that you can roll up your Jelly Roll without a single crack. 

Jelly Rolls are very popular as well as useful cakes. If kept in a cake box or an airtight tin they 
remain moist and fresh for a long time. They are nicer as a foundation for cake-puddings than 
sponge cakes. 



Master Recipe 

RYZON JELLY ROLL 

3 eggs — ^beaten. 
^ cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 
I tablespoonful milk or cream. 
I level cupful {J4 pound) flour. 
I yi level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
)4 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
I level tablespoonful (}4 ounce) butter — 

melted. 
Jam or jelly, slightly warmed. 

First grease a jelly roll tin and line it with 
buttered paper, allowing paper to come a little 



above the rim of tin. Beat eggs until light, ad d 
sugar gradually, beat five minutes, add milk or 
cream, flour sifted with Ryzon, vanilla extract 
and butter. Spread mixture on prepared tin; 
bake in a quick oven for twelve to fifteen min- 
utes, or until firm to touch. 

Have ready sheet of paper sprinkled with 
sugar, and turn cake onto it. Quickly remove 
buttered paper and spread over with jam or jelly 
and roll up at once. Place on sieve or wire rack 
to cool. X^lly '■oil niay be served hot as a pud- 
ding with* custard sauce, or cut in slices and 
served cold. 

Sufficient for eight persons. 



RYZON DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) lard. 

1 level cupful (^ pound) sugar. 

2 squares (2 ozs.) unsweetened chocolate. 

2 eggs. 

Yi cupful (l gill) milk. 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
\]A, level cupfuls {^yi ozs.) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

White Frosting: 
A few almonds. 
2 level cupfuls (i pound) sugar. 

1 cupful {yi pint) water. 

2 egg whites. ; 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

Pink Frosting: — Use pink sugar in place of 
white, see page 79. 

For Cake: — Cream butter, lard and sugar 
thoroughly together, add chocolate melted, eggs 
well b.eaten, milk, vanilla, and flour sifted with 
Ryzon, and salt. Turn into a square, greased 
and floured cake tin, and bake fdr fifty minutes 
in a moderate oven. Turn out and cool. 

For Frosting: — Blanch, shred and brown a 
few almonds. Put sugar and water into a sauce- 
pan, stir gently now and then and bring to 
boiling point, remove spoon and boil until syrup 
forms a soft ball when tested in cold water, or 
240° F. by candy thermometer. Pour syrup 
gradually, while beating constantly, on whites of 
eggs beaten with Ryzon until stiff but not dry, 
add vanilla, and continue beating until mixture 
is cool. Set saucepan containing frosting in 
larger saucepan containing boiling water, and 
cook on fire, stirring constantly, until mixture 
becomes granular around edge of pan. Take 
from pan of hot water and beat, using a wooden 
spoon, until mixture will hold its shape. Pour 
on cake and spread with back of spoon, leaving 
a rough surface. Sprinkle with the prepared 
almonds. Sufficient for a medium-sized cake. 

RYZON QUICK TEA CAKE 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (K pound) flour. 

2 level tablespoonfuls sugar. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 

yi cupful {yi pound) butter or lard. 

2 eggs — separated. 

i^ cupful {\yi gills) milk. 

3 level tablespoonfuls currants. 

Sift together flour, sugar, salt and Ryzon. 
Cut in butter or lard with a knife, then rub in 
lightly with the tips of the fingers; add beaten 



yolks of eggs, milk, beat well, add currants, and 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix and 
pour into a buttered pan or cake ring and bake 
in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot 
or cold. 

Sufficient for one small cake. 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 

BY ELIZABETH O. HILLER, 
DENVER SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

yi cupful {yi pound) butter. 

2 level cupfuls (9 ozs.) confectioners' 
sugar. 

4 eggs, separated. 

2 squares (2 ounces) unsweetened choco- 
late. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2)4 level cupfuls (9 ounces) pastry flour. 
yi teaspoonful salt. 
I cupful {yi pint) milk, 
f^ teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

Cream the butter, add one cup sugar gradually 
while stirring constantly. Beat the yolks of eggs 
until thick and lemon-tinted; add to them' the 
second cup sugar while beating constantly, then 
combine the two mixtures. Melt chocolate over 
hot water, cool and add to mixture. Sift to- 
gether flour, Ryzon, and salt; add alternately 
with milk to mixture; add extract. Then cut 
and fold in the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. 
Beat until ingredients are thoroughly blended. 
Turn mixture into a well-buttered tube pan and 
bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. De- 
licious with marshmallow frosting. See page 43. 

Sufficient for one large cake. 

RYZON SPONGE CAKE 

5 eggs. 

yi teaspoonful salt. 
I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I level cupful {yi pound) flour. 
I teaspoonful lemon extract. 

Add salt to eggs and beat for fifteen minutes, 
add sugar and beat until very light, then remove 
beater, sift in flour mixed with Ryzon, add 
extract and mix carefully and lightly. Turn into 
a .well-greased and floured cake tin, and bake in 
a moderate oven for forty minutes. 

Sufficient for eight persons. 

One of the oldest kinds of light cakes that is 
still a universal favorite is the sponge cake. 

The popularity of the sponge cake is due to its 
lightness and its high nutritive value, which 
makes it the confection par excellence for diil- 



dren, while it is easily handled without soiling 
the fingers. Fine hard-grained sugar produces 
the best sponge cakes; both the powdery and the 
coarse forms should be avoided. Suitable sugar 
mixes readily with the eggs; the fine grains assist 
in breaking and creaming the yolks. Coarse 
sugar has a tendency to remain crystalline in the 
sponge batter, and the baked cakes generally 
show specks on top in consequence. This is most 
noticeable in those sponge cakes that are made 
by beating the yolks and whites separately. 

Flour of a fairly soft nature is best for these 
cakes, and should be sifted before using, to make 
light mixing easy without toughening the batter. 

RYZON GERMAN APPLE CAKE 

4 level teaspoonf uls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {}^ pound) flour. 

1 level table'spoonful sugar. 
J4 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter or lard. 
I cupful (X pint) milk (scant). 

For Mixture: 
6 apples. 

^ cupful (X pound) sugar. 
X lemon. 
)4 cupful (2 ounces) currants. 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

I level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

For Cake; — Sift flour, Ryzon, sugar, and salt 
into a bowl; rub in shortening as lightly as 
possible with the fingers, just working it until fat 
is well blended with flour. _ Then mix to a soft 
dough with milk, or use milk and water, having 
this as cold as possible. Turn out onto a floured 
baking board, roll out, and line a well-greased 
square baking tin, pressing up wellaround thesides. 

For Mixture : — Clean currants. Peel, core and 
cut apples in thin slices; put them on cake in 
even rows, sprinkle in lemon juice, currants, and 
sugar mixed with cinnamon. Pour on butter and 
bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 

If the apples color too much, a buttered paper 
may be placed over fruit during baking. 

Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON CHOCOLATE CAKE 
K cupful (6 ozs.) sugar. 
}4 cupful (3 ozs.) unsweetened chocolate, 

grated. 
}i level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 
}4 level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 
yi cupful (4 ozs.) butter. 

1 large egg. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level cupful (4 ozs.) flour. 

J4 level teaspoonful salt. 
)4 lemon. 

)4 cupful (i ounce) blanched and chopped 
almonds. 



Sift sugar, chocolate and spices together twice, 
add butter, and beat with a wooden spoon until 
soft and creamy, add egg, beating well, add flour 
sifted with Ryzon and salt, strained lemon juice, 
and almonds. Mix and turn into a tin that has 
been well greased and floured, and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. 

Sufficient for five to six persons. 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON COFFEE CRUMB CAKE 

BY MRS. MAX MONNIKENDAM, NEW YORK CITY 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

3 level tablespoonfuls (iX ounces) sugar. 
2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

2 level cupfuls (}^ pound) flour. 
}4 cupful (i gill) milk 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 pinch salt. 
Crumbs for Cake: 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 
X teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) sugar. 

1 level teaspoonful flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls shredded almonds. 

For Crumbs: — Mix butter, cinnamon, sugar 
and flour together until hke crumbs and then add 
almonds. 

For Cake: — Crearn butter and sugar together, 
add eggs well beaten, vanilla extract, one cupful 
flour, milk, and second cupful flour sifted with 
Ryzon and salt. Mix and turn into a flat 
greased and floured cake tin, dust over with 
crumbs, and bake in a moderately hot oven for 
twenty minutes. 

The grated rind of half a lemon may be used in 
place of vanilla. Sufficient for six to seven 
persons. 

RYZON DRIED APPLE CAKE 

BY MRS. GEORGIANNA DEWEY, ANN ARBOR, MICH. 

I level cupful {}4 pound) dried apples. 

^ level cupful {}i pound) sugar. 

K cupful (l gill) milk. 

I cupful (X pint) molasses. 

yi cupful (4 ounces) raisins. 

yi cupful (4 ounces) currants. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) shortening. 

1 egg. 

I }4 level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful soda. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
}4 level teaspoonful ginger. 

yi level teaspoonful cinnamon. 
X level teaspoonful allspice. 
Soak apples in one quart of water over night ; 
then drain, chop fine and cook in molasses one 



hour. \\'hen cold add fruit, spices, sugar and 
egg well beaten. Add soda dissolved in one 
tablespoonful hot water. Add milk, then Ryzon 
and flour sifted together. Mix all thoroughly, 
turn into well-greased tin and bake for one hour 
in very slow oven. 

This keeps like old fashioned fruit cake. 

RYZON CARAWAY SEED CAKE 

yi cupful (4 ounces) butter. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 

3 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls milk. 

1 teaspoonful orange extract. 

2 yi level teaspoonf uls caraway seeds. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 yi level cupf uls (6 ounces) flour. 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs 
well beaten, milk, orange extract, seeds and flour 
sifted with Ryzon. Mix and pour into a small, 
square buttered and floured cake tin, and bake in 
a moderate oven for forty minutes. 

The caraway seeds may be crushed if liked. 

Sufficient for one small cake. 

RYZON LAYER CAKES 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON LAYER COCOA CAKE ' 

BY MISS JENNIE WALLACH, NEW YORK CITY 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter 

1 level cupful (yi pound) sugar 
yi cupful (i gill) cold water. 

2 level tablespoonfuls cocoa. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

2 eggs. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level cupful (}/i pound) flour. 
Filling: 

yi cupful (2 ounces) sweet butter. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) powdered sugar. 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

4 level teaspoonfuls cocoa. 
Icing for Top: 

X cake chocolate. 

yi cupful {\yi gills) boiling water. 

I level teaspoonful flour. 

yi cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla extract. 

For Cake: — Cream butter thoroughly with 
sugar, add water, cocoa, vanilla extract, eggs, 
well beaten, and flour sifted with Ryzon. Divide 
into two greased and floured layer cake tins, and 
bake in a moderately hot oven for fifteen min- 
utes. Turn out and cool. 

For Filling: — Cream butter and sugar to- 



gether, add the vanilla extract and cocoa, mix 
well, and spread between the layers. 

For Icing: — Dissolve chocolate in boiling 
water in a small saucepan, add sugar mixed with 
flour, butter and vanilla extract. Cook until 
thick, stirring constantly, then cool and spread 
on top of cake. Sufficient for two-layer cake. 

RYZON MOCK CARAMEL CAKE 

BY MISS M. DELLER, MILWAUKEE, WIS. 

Dissolve I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) 

butter or butter substitute in a large 

iron frying pan. 
Sprinkle i level cupful {yi pound) brown 

sugar over the butter, also 
yi cupful (2 ounces) of nut meats — not too 

small. Have the sugar and nuts evenly 

spread and set aside until the following 

is mixed : 
I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter or 

butter substitute. 
I level cupful {yi pound) granulated sugar. 

1 egg. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 
I level teaspoonful vanilla or any desired 
flavor. 
Spread this mixture over the butter, sugar and 
nuts and bake in the frying pan like a loaf cake 
in a moderate oven. When done turn onto a 
cake plate upside down. Sufficient for one large 
cake. 

Prize Recipe 

RYZON NUT TART 

BY MRS. A. B. CANNIFF, NEW YORK CITY 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) chopped English 
walnut meats. 

I package zweiback (10 cent size). 

4 eggs, separated. 

I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

I level teaspoonful powdered cloves. 

Whipped cream. 
Marshmallow or boiled icing. See page 43. 
Chop and roll nuts and roll zweiback, or put 
it through a. food chopper. Beat yolks of eggs 
and sugar together for ten minutes, add zweiback 
mixed with Ryzon and spices, now add nut meats 
and whites of eggs stiffly beaten. Mix carefully 
and divide into two well-greased layer-cake tins. 
This nut tart takes ten minutes to bake in a 
moderate oven and it should not be permitted to 
bake too long. When tart has cooled, either a 
boiled icing, or marshmallows slightly softened in 
the oven, or whipped cream sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla extract may be used between layers 
and on top. Sufficient for six to eight persons. 




RYZON LAYER CAKE— Master Recipe 
By Mrs. Anna B. Scott, Cooking Expert of the Philadelphia North American 



Master Recipe 
RYZON LAYER CAKE 

1 cupful (>^ pound) butter or lard. 

2 level cupfuls (l pound) sugar. 
4 eggs — separated. 

1 cupful {}4 pint) milk. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (l pound) flour. 
^ level teaspoonful salt. 
Filling: 

2 cupfuls (l pint) milk. 

6 level tablespoonfuls (i^ ounces) corn- 
starch. 
I egg yolk, 

6 level tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) sugar. 
^ level teaspoonful salt. 
I level cupful (>^ pound) seeded raisins. 
Water Icing: 

1 egg white. 

2 tablespoonfuls hot water. 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
Confectioners' sugar. 
For Cake: — Beat shortening and sugar to a 
light crearH; separate eggs, beat yolks until well 
mixed and add slowly to sugar and shortening; 
add milk very slowly, stirring all the time; beat 
whites of eggs until stifif and add half; sift flour, 
Ryzon, and salt and add rest of beaten egg white 
and rest of flour. Line four jelly tins or one 



square cake pan, 12 x 14, with paper; do not 
grease. Put mixture on and spread smooth; bake 
in a moderate oven for twenty-five to thirty 
minutes. The cake will be four inches high. 

For Filling: — Rinse a saucepan with cold 
water, add one and one-half cupfuls of milk and 
bring to boiling point; stir in cornstarch which 
has been moistened with remainder of milk; add 
egg yolk, sugar, and salt; boil for five minutes; 
add raising which have been washed, dried, and 
put through a food chopper; beat till cold then 
spread between cake. 

For Water Icing: — Beat up white of egg, add 
water, flavoring and enough sifted confectioners' 
sugar to make a nice frosting that will spread on 
cake. 

This cake when finished measures 7x13 and is 
four inches thick. The ingredients can be very 
easily divided and only half the size made. 

RYZON WASHINGTON LAYER CAKE 

6 level tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) butter. 

I level cupful (X pound) sugar. 

3 egg whites. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I /^ level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
}i level teaspoonful salt. 
^ cupful (l gill) milk. 
^ teaspoonful almond extract. 



41 



Filling: 

I cupful (2 gills) milk. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) sugar. 
I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter. 
I level tablespoonful flour. 
I yi egg yolks. 

}4 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
yi cupful {yi pound) blanched and shredded 

almonds. 
yi cupful (i ounce) shredded candied citron 

peel. 
White Frosting. See page 38. 

For Cake: — ^Cream the butter and sugar to- 
gether; beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
add them and beat well, then sift in flour, salt and 
Ryzon, add milk and almond extract, and beat 
with a wooden spoon until quite light. Divide 
into buttered and floured layer-cake tins, and 
bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty 
minutes. Turn out and cool. 

For Filling: — ^Put one and one-half cupfuls 
of the milk into a saucepan, with sugar and but- 
ter, and bring to boiling point. Blend flour with 
remainder of milk, add yolks of eggs well beaten, 
and pour into boiling milk and stir and cook until 
it thickens. Cool and add vanilla. Divide into 
portions and add almonds to one-half and 
citron to the other half. Put almond mixture 
on one layer and citron mixture on the second. 
Place them together and cover top with white 
frosting. Sufficient for two-layer cake. 

RYZON CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

4 squares (4 ounces) bitter chocolate. 
yi cupful {y4 gill) boiling water. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) butter. 
lyi level cupfuls (10 ounces) sugar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
3 eggs, separated. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi cupful (i gill) milk. 
White frosting. See page 38. 
Chocolate frosting. See page 44. 

Melt chocolate in small saucepan, add water, 
and cook over hot water until smooth. Cream 
butter and sugar thoroughly together, add 
chocolate, vanilla extract, yolks of eggs well 
beaten, flour sifted with salt and Ryzon, and 
add milk. Beat well, cut and fold in whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Divide into three 
greased and floured layer tins, and bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Cool 
and put together with white or chocolate frosting. 
The top of cake should be covered with frosting. 

Sufficient for a medium-sized three-layer cake. 



RYZON LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

4 level tablespoonf uls ( 2 ounces) butter. 
I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
Scant half cup {^ gill) milk. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I yi level cupfuls (5 ounces) flour. 
4 egg whites. 

yi teaspoonful almond extract. 
Filling: 

I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
yi cupful (i gill) water. 
I egg white. 

I level cupful {yi pound) seeded raisins. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) ground almonds. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) chopped English wal- 
nut meats. 
yi teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
For Cake: — Cream butter and sugar thor- 
oughly together, add milk, flour sifted with 
Ryzon and beat until smooth. Add extract and 
fold in whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Divide into greased and floured layer cake 
tins, and bake in a moderately quick oven for 
twenty minutes. Turn out and cool. 

For Filling: — Put sugar and water into a 
saucepan and boil until it forms a soft ball when 
tried in cold water, or 238° F. by candy ther- 
mometer. Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff, 'dry 
froth. Pour syrup upon these eggs, .beating 
steadily until a meringue is formed which will 
spread. Add vanilla, almonds, walnuts and 
raisins cut in halves. Spread between layers and 
on top. Sufficient for two-layer cake. 

RYZON MOLASSES LAYER CAKE 

BY NELLIE E. ADAMS, TACOMA, WASH. 

1 cupful {yi pint) molasses. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 

2 eggs and yolk of i egg. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) butter. 

I level teaspoonful cloves. 

I level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 
yi level teaspoonful soda. 

j4 cupful (i gill) buttermilk — or sour milk. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

Mix and bake in three layers. 
Filling: 

I cupful {yi pound) figs. 
I cupful {yi pound) raisins chopped fine. 
I cupful {yi pint) water. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cook all together until soft and smooth. Frost 
top with white of one egg and 5 tablespoonfuls 
frosting sugar flavored to taste, or make a thick 
white icing and put between layers. 



42 



RYZON FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

CAKES should be made to look attractive as well as to taste good. Many cakes are better left 
in their simple state without any decoration, and when this is the case particular care should be 
taken with the baking to avoid burning. In no circumstance should a cake be over-decorated. 

One of the simplest forms of decoration is to spread a thin coating of jelly, preserve or honey over 
the cake, and then to sprinkle with browned or colored almonds, cocoanut, pistachio nuts, tiny candies 
or a mixture of these. This is very suitable for the sides of cakes where the top only is iced. 

When a more elaborate decoration is wanted, one of the various icings may be used.. With a large 
cake^ it is usual to ice the top only, and then to decorate with nuts, preserved fruits, bonbons or 
frosting in two colors put through an icing bag. 

In the decorating of tiny fancy cakes there is a wide range for individual taste and arrangement. 
With the help of fillings, icings and decorations, the variety of pretty cakes which can be made is endless. 

Hard white icing is usually prepared with egg whites, a few drops of lemon juice and confectioners' 
sugar. The duU appearance of this icing is due in many instances to insufficient beating and to its 
containing too much sugar. The whites should be free from yolks, and all utensils should be scrupu- 
lously clean, as the least spot of grease is sufficient to make the icing heavy. 

Glace icing may either be poured over the cakes, or the cakes may be dipped into it. If a large 
cake is to be iced, put it on a wire stand placed on a'sheet of white paper, and pour over enough icing 
to cover the top only, or the top and sides as desired. Arrange any decoration on the cakes while the 
icing is still soft. 

Butter icing must be allowed to become quite cold and hard before using. In hot weather the 
bowl containing the icing should be placed on ice or put in a cool place. If a large plain cake is to be 
iced, it is usual to split it once or twice, and put a layer of the icing between. Spread a thin coating 
of the icing on the top and sides of the cake, and put most of the icing into a forcing bag, with a large 
tube on the end of it. Force out the icing, on the cake, and do it as quickly as possible before the 
heat of the hand has time to soften the icing. 



RYZON LEMON FILLING 
4 lemons. 
4 eggs. 

yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I level cupful (yi pound) sugar. 
yi cupful {% pound) butter. 
yi cupfiil (i>^ gills) water. 
Strain juice of lemons into a saucepan, add 
eggs, Ryzon mixed with sugar, butter and water. 
Stir over a slow fire until mixture boils two minutes. 
Cool and use. Sufficient for two-layer cake. 

RYZON COCOANUT FILLING 

4 egg whites. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

1 level cupful (}/i pound) cocoanut. 
yi teaspoonful almond extract. 

Beat up whites of eggs with Ryzon, add sugar, 
cocoanut, and extract, and stir over the fire until 
the mixture is hot. Use at once between layers 
and on top of cake. Sufficient for one-layer cake. 

RYZON GELATINE ICING 

2 level teaspoonfuls powdered gelatine. 
2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

y^ cupful (i gill) boiling water. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I teaspoonful orange extract. 
^yi level cupfuls (i^ pounds) confectioners' 
sugar. 



Mix gelatine with cold water ; add boiling water, 
stir over fire until dissolved; add Ryzon, extract, 
and sifted confectioners' sugar to make thick 
enough to spread. Sufficient for two large cakes. 

RYZON ORANGE GLACfe ICING 

lyi level cupfuls {yi pound) confectioners' 
sugar. 
I orange. 

A few drops yellow color. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
Rub confectioners' sugar through a fine sieve, 
put it into a small pan, add strained juice of 
orange and allow sugar to dissolve over fire; then 
add yellow color and Ryzon, and, if necessary, a 
few drops of warm water. This icing should only 
be warm, not hot. Sufficient for one small cake. 

RYZON MARSHMALLOW FROSTING 
40 {yi pound) marshmallows. ' 
I level cupful (yi pound) sugar. 
I cupful (yi pint) water. 
I egg white. 

yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I teaspoonful orange extract. 
Melt marshmallows in double boiler. Cook 
sugar and water until soft ball is formed in cold 
water, or 240° F. by candy thermometer. Pour 
onto the stiffly beaten white of egg mixed with 
Ryzon, add melted marshmallows, flavoring, 
and beat until of consistency to spread on cake. 
Sufficient for one cake. 



RYZON CHOCOLATE FRUIT FILLING 

4 squares (4 ounces) unsweetened chocolate. 
4 tablespoonfuls milk, 
ji cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 
I tablespoonful {}4 ounce) butter. 
I egg. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
J^ level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

}4 cupful (2 ozs.) chopped preserved ginger. 

}4 cupful (2 ozs.) chopped preserved cherries. 
Melt chocolate in upper pan of a double boiler, 
add milk, sugar, butter, egg well beaten, and 
salt, and cook over the fire until mixture thickens, 
stirring constantly. Cool, add extract, Ryzon, 
-ginger and cherries. Sufficient for three-layer cake. 

RYZON ORANGE FILLING 

2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter. 
}4 cupful {}i pound) sugar. 

2 egg yolks. 

1 orange. 

}4 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls ( i ounce) cake crumbs. 
I teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Melt butter in a small saucepan, add sugar, 
yolks of eggs, grated rind and strained juice of 
orange, and stir over the fire until the mixture 
thickens, but do not allow to boil. Add Ryzon, 
cake crumbs and lemon juice. Cool and use. 

Sufficient for one-layer cake. 

RYZON ALMOND ICING 

I level cupful (}i pound) blanched and 

chopped almonds. 
4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) sugar. 

1 level cupful (>^ pound) sugar. 
J4 cupful (i gill) water. 

2 egg whites. 

}4 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

1 teaspoonful rose extract. 

Brown almonds in oven. Put the four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar into a small saucepan and stir 
over the fire until brown, add almonds, cool and 
pound. Boil sugar and water for five minutes, 
add pounded almonds, pour onto beaten whites 
of eggs mixed with Ryzon, add extract, beat until 
thick enough to spread. Sufficient for one cake. 

RYZON BROWN SUGAR ICING 

2}i level cupfuls (i pound) brown sugar. 
fi cupful (iK gills) cream. 

2 teaspoonfuls butter. 

>^ level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
Put sugar into a saucepan, add cream, butter 
and Ryzon, and boil until mixture forms a soft 
ball when tried in cold water, or until it registers 



240° F. by candy thermometer, add vanilla and 
beat until thick. Sufficient for one cake. 

RYZON SOUFFLfi ICING 

BY MRS. FRED FRIEDLANDER, NEW YORK 

Unbeaten white of I egg. 

3 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

I level cupful {}4 pound) granulated sugar. 

}4 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
Put all in top of double boiler. Have water un- 
derneath boiling and beat mixture seven minutes. 
This icing will stand' several days and remain 
creamy. By adding fresh fruit juice this makes 
a delicious pudding sauce. Sufficient foronelarge 

'^^ ^' RYZON BOILED FROSTING 

1 level cupful (>^ pound) sugar. 
}4 cupful (l gill) water. 

2 egg whites. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

Boil sugar and water in a saucepan until it 
forms a soft ball when tried in cold water, or until 
it registers 240° F. by candy thermometer; pour 
onto the stiffly beaten egg whites, pouring in a 
steady stream and very slowly adding, while 
beating, Ryzon and vanilla; stir until thick. 

Sufficient for one cake. 

RYZON CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

2 squares (2 ounces) unsweetened chocolate. 
X cupful (}4 pound) sugar. 

}i level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
K cupful (}4 gill) milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls butter. 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
}4 teaspoonful lemon extract. 
Melt chocolate in saucepan, add sugar, Ryzon, 
milk, and butter, and cook until it forms a soft 
ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F. by candy 
thermometer, then add extracts and use. 
Sufficient for one cake. 

RYZON FONDANT ICING 

4 level cupfuls (2 pounds) sugar. 
I cupful {}4 pint) water. 

^ level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
Melt sugar in water, add Ryzon, and boil until 
it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water, or 
240° F. by candy thermometer. Pour onto a 
wet platter, and as soon as syrup has slightly 
cooled (it should crinkle up when touched at the 
edge with the finger), gather it up with a scraper 
into a heap, then work it evenly and smoothly 
with a spoon until the whole becomes creamy 
and finally solid. Knead smooth and keep in a 
jar. When wanted, place the icing in a saucepan 
over hot water, and stir it to the consistency of 
thick cream, and use it for the tops of cakes and 
puddings. If the icing is made too hot it will be 
dull and brittle instead of soft and shiny. 




RYZON SUGAR COOKIES— Master Recipe 
By Katharine Lawrence, Director of Household Science, Temple University, Philadelphia 

Chapter IV 

Ryzon Cookies, Doughnuts and Small Cakes 



Master Recipe 
. RYZON SUGAR COOKIES 

I cupful (yi pound) butter (scant). 

1 level cupful (^ pound) sugar. 

2 eggs. 

I tablespoonful water. 
I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
Enough flour to make a dough and roll out 
thin on board. 

Cream butter and' sugar thoroughly together 
with a wooden spoon. Beat eggs -until very 
light, add to creamed 'rnixtare,..'j!)eat well, add 
water and extract. To one-hali cupful of sifted 
flour add Ryzon and sift into other ingredients, 
beat until light, and then add enough flour to 
make a soft dough.,' about two level cupfuls. Turn 



out onto a floured baking board, knead lightly, 
roll out very thin, cut out with a cookie cutter 
and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. These 
cookies are as good at six weeks as when baked. 
One tablespoonful of crushed caraway seeds may 
be substituted for vanilla extract. 
Sufficient for fifty cookies. 

RYZON SPICE COOKIES 



5 

2 level cupfuls (i pound) sugar. 
I letnon. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
K' level teaspoonful powdered cloves. 
X level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 
Beat eggs and sugar together for fifteen 
^minutes, add grated rind and strained juice of 



lemon, and gradually flour sifted with Ryzon, and 
spices. Mix carefully and drop by teaspoonfuls 
onto greased baking tins. Bake in a fairly hot 
oven for eight to ten minutes. 
Suflficient for four dozen cookies. 

RYZON FANCY COOKIES FOR TEA 

i/i, cupful (6 ounces) butter. 
yi cupful iyi pound) sugar. 

2 small eggs. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls (>i pound) flour. 
^^ teaspoonful almond extract. 

yi cupfid (2 ounces) ground almonds. 
Hard White Icing: 
I egg white. 
I y^ level cupfuls {}41h.) confectioners' sugar. 
I teaspoonful lemon juice. 
Shredded almonds. 
For Cookies: — Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether, add eggs well beaten, flour sifted with 
Ryzon, extract and almonds. Knead lightly, and 
roll out on a floured baking board. Cut with a, 
small, plain round cutter, lay on greased tins, 
spread on each a little of the icing and sprinkle 
over a few shredded almonds. Bake in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes. 

For Icing: — Sift sugar into a basin, add egg 
and lemon juice and beat for fifteen minutes. If 
too thick, add a very little more white of egg. 
Sufficient for fifty cookies. 
If liked, pour the following French Water Icing 
over cookies when hot. Sift one cupful of con- 
fectioners' sugar into a basin, mix into it sufficient 
cold water to make it into a thin paste, beat until 
smooth, flavor it as desired, and pour it over the 
cookies. When dry serve for tea. 

RYZON FIG COOKIES 

1 cupful {}^ pound) butter. 

2 level cupfuls (l pound) sugar. 
2 eggs, separated. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

I teaspoonful orange extract. 

I teaspoonful rose extract. 
3>^ level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
5}4 level cupfuls (i pound 6 ounces) flour. 

I level teaspoonful salt. 
Filling: 

1 pound figs. 

2 level teaspoonfuls grated orange rind. 
I orange. 

I cupful (K pint) grape juice. 

I cupful (J^ pint) honey. 

I cupful {}4 pint) water. 
For Cookies: — Beat butter and sugar to a 
cream, add yolks of eggs and beat well, add milk, 
extracts, whites of eggs stiffly beaten, and 



flour sifted with Ryzon and salt. Knead lightly 
on a floured baking board and roll out very thin. 
Cut into shapes and spread half with the fig 
filling, place the other half on top, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 

For Filling: — Wash figs and cut them into 
dice, put them into a saucepan, add orange rind 
and strained orange and grapefruit juice, honey 
and water; cover and simmer, stirring often, until 
reduced to jam. Turn out to cool. 

Sufficient for twenty-six cookies. 

RYZON PEANUT COOKIES 

by miss LOUISE FAHRIG, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

I level cupful (>^ pound) ground, freshly 
roasted peanuts. 

1 level cupful {}4 pound) sugar. 
)4 .cupful (>^ gill) peanut oil. 

2 eggs. 

I ^ level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
^ level teaspoonful salt. 
2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
Cream sugar and peanut oil, add beaten eggs 
and flour sifted twice with Ryzon and salt. Mix 
in half the ground peanuts and sprinkle balance 
on cookies before putting them in a moderate 
oven. Bake about twelve minutes. 

Sufficient for thirty cookies. ' ., 

R.YZON CHOCOLATE DELIGHTS ' 

2 squares (2 ozs.) unsweetened chocolate. 

3 eggs. 

K cupful (4 ounces) butter. 
I level cupful (}4 pound) sugar. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
K cupful (3 ounces) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
I level cupful (yi pound) chopped English 
walnut meats. 
Grate chocolate and beat eggs slightly. Melt 
butter, add chocolate, eggs, sugar, extract, flour 
sifted with Ryzon and salt, and add nut meats. 
Mix well and spread in a large greased shallow pan , 
and bake for twelve minutes in a moderate oven . 
Cut in squares while warm. 
Sufficient for thirty squares. 

RYZON WALNUT MACAROONS 

BY MRS. C. W. TILDEN, LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

White of 2 eggs. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) powdered 

sugar. 
I level tablespoonful flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
4 tablespoonfuls finely chopped walnuts. 
Mix all together until stiff, and drop by spoon- 
fuls on well-greased tin. Bake in quick oven, . 



RYZON GERMAN HONEY CAKE 

I yi pounds honey. 
' 8 cupfuls (2 pounds) flour. 
3 eggs. 

I level cupful (^ pound) sugar. 
I yi level teaspoonf uls cinnamon. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered cloves. 
yi lemon. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I yi cupfuls (6 ounces) blanched and chopped 

almonds. 
yi cupful {yi pound) chopped candied lemon 

peel. 
yi cupful {yi pound) chopped candied 

orange peel. 
I level cupful {yi pound) chopped candied 

citron peel. 

Bring honey to boiling point, then skim and 
take from fire. When cool, add one pound of the 
flour and set overnight in a cool place. Next day 
beat up eggs with sugar, add almonds, peels, 
spices, Ryzon, grated rind and strained juice of 
lemon; to this add the honey dough, mix well, 
and add remainder of flour, or sufficient to make 
a dough that can be easily rolled out with a 
rolling-pin. 

Take a small part of dough (the remainder 
must be left in a cool place), roll it out thin, and 
cut in rounds or squares. Lay on greased tins 
and bake in a hot oven until ready. Repeat this 
process until the dough is all used. 

If liked, powdered allspice, crushed cardaraon 
and anise seed may be added to cakes. 

These cakes are better after two weeks. 



RYZON ECONOMICAL SCHOOL COOKIES 

BY MARGARET L. EVANS, LANCASTER, PA. 

yi cupful {yi pound) shortening. 
I level cupful {yi pound) dark brown sugar. 

1 egg. 

yi, cupful milk. 
2yi level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

yi level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 
I level cupful {yi pound) finely chopped 
raisins. 

Cream the sugar and shortening. Add well- 
beaten egg and milk. Sift together flour, salt and 
Ryzon, adding to the above mixture. To this 
add the cinnamon and raisins. Roll out dough 
evenly and cut out in any shape desired. Place 
on a greased pan and bake about fifteen minutes 
in a hot oven. 

Sufficient for fifty cookies. 



RYZON SHORTBREAD COOKIES 

I cupful {yi pound) butter. 
yi cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
I tablespoonful cream. 

1 teaspoonful grated lemon rind. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

Cream butter, add sugar and cream, and beat 
well together, add lemon rind, and gradually add 
flour sifted with Ryzon. Knead lightly, roll out 
on a floured baking board and cut out with a 
small cutter. Lay on slightly greased tins, and 
bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. 

When the little cakes are cut into triangles 
they are called "petticoat tails." When Queen 
Mary Stuart returned to Scotland from France 
she brought a number of the French people with 
her and they called these Kttle cakes "petits 
gateaux tailes. " The Scotch people thought they 
said "petticoat tails," and so they have been 
known ever since. Sufficient for fourteen cookies. 



RYZON PENTECOST COOKIES (JEWISH) 

yi cupful {yi pound) butter. 
yi cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

I egg and I egg white. 

I teaspoonful almond extract. 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
Powdered sugar. 

Candied citron peel. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add egg well 
beaten, extract, and flour sifted with Ryzon. 
Mix to a stifiE paste, turn out onto a floured 
baking board, roll out thin, and cut out with a 
round cutter, or with the top of a wineglass. Place 
them on greased baking tins, brush them over 
with egg white slightly beaten, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and place a small piece of 
candied peel in center of each cookie. Bake in a 
moderate oven for ten to twelve minutes, and 
when done, place on a sieve to cool. 

Sufficient for twenty-five cookies. 



RYZON ROLLED WAFERS 

BY FORECAST MODERN SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

2yi level cupfuls {lyi pints) dry oatmeal. 
2 eggs. 

1 level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) shorten- 
ing. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 



47 




Put all ingredients into mixing bowl together 
and mix very thoroughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls 
on greased baking sheet and bake in a moderate 
oven. While still hot, roll into shape of a cigar- 
ette. If the cookie hardens so as to prevent 
rolling, return it to the hot oven for a moment 
and then roll. Sufficient for eighteen to twenty 
wafers. 



RYZON CHRISTMAS COOKIES 

yi cupful {,% pound) butter. 
]4 cupful (X pound) sugar. 
X level teaspoonful salt. 

1 lemon rind grated. 

)4 cupful (2 ounces) ground almonds. 

2 level tablespoonfuls caraway seeds. 
2 eggs. 

yi cupful {% pint) milk. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) fiour. 

I level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 

Chopped cocoanut. 

Golden syrup. 

Beat butter and sugar until creamy, add 
salt, grated lemon rind, almonds, caraway seeds, 
eggs well beaten, milk, and flour sifted with 
Ryzon, and ginger. Mix carefully, turn out onto, 
a floured baking board, knead lightly, then roll 
out quickly one-foitrth of an inch thick, and cut 
out with a fancy cutter about two inches in 
diameter. Place on greased tins, and bake in a 
hot oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. 

When thay are baked and cold, brush over 
with golden syrup, and sprinkle with cocoanut. 

Suflficient for four dozen cookies. 




RYZON DOUGHNUTS 

RYZON GRIMSLICHS QEWISH) 

2 matzoths. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
^ cupful {y^ pound) matzoths meal. 

3 eggs. 

I level cupful {yi pound) currants. 

yi cupful (3 ounces) sultana raisins. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) seeded raisins. 

yi level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

yi level teaspoonful powdered nutmeg. 

yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) ground almonds. 

Clarified sugar. 
Cover matzoths with cold water and allow to 
soak twenty minutes, then squeeze very dry, and 
mix with meal, Ryzon, and two of the eggs well 
beaten. Mix fruit, spices, sugar, almonds, and 
other egg well beaten. Shape a piece of the 
matzoth crust into an oval on the hand, place 
some of the fruit mixture on it, cover with a top 
piece of crust, shape carefully, and sprinkle with 
meal. Fry in smoking hot fat or hot oil. Drain 
and serve with clarified sugar. Sufficient for 
nine grimslichs. 

To Clarify Sugar: — Put two cupfuls sugar 
into a saucepan; add two cupfuls of water and 
bring slowly to boiling point; then remove scum 
from surface. Put on lid, and boil four minutes 
to allow the condensing steam to clear any crys- 
tals of sugar from sides of pan. Boil gently 
twenty-five minutes. Remove from fire and pour 
it in a steady stream over the stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs. Return to pan and wait until 
albumen of eggs coagulates and rises to surface, 
when all imptu'ities will be removed and syrup 
left perfectly clear. 

RYZON CORN MEAL DOUGHNUTS 

by MRS. GEORGE A. CLARKE, MULINO, ORE. 

I yi level cupfuls (3 gills) milk. 
I yi level cupfuls {"jyi ounces) white corn meal. 
2yi level cupfuls (.% pound) white flour. 
X level cupful (yi pound) butter. 
K cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
2 eggs well beaten. 

level teaspoonful ground nutmeg. 

level teaspoonful salt. 

le\'el teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

Put corn meal and milk into 
double boiler and cook for ten 
minutes. Add butter, nutmeg 
and sugar to meal. Sift together 
flour, salt and Ryzon — add to 
other ingredients. Roll out on a 
well-floured board, cut in desired 
shapes, fry in deep fat, drain on 
paper and roll in powdered sugar. 



48 




RYZON CHRISTMAS DOUGHNUTS 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I tablespoonful {}4 ounce) butter. 
I level cupful {}4 pound) sugar. 

1 level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

2 eggs. 

I teaspoonful lemon extract. 
I cupful {}4 pint) milk. 

Sift flour twice with Ryzon and salt, and set 
aside. Cream butter, sugar and nutmeg together, 
add eggs well beaten, and beat for five minutes; 
add extract, milk and flour. Turn out on a 
floured baking board and roll out one-fourth inch 
thick; cut with a doughnut cutter and fry in 
plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain well on paper 
and cool. 

Roll in powdered sugar. 

If liked, the dough may be cut in small rounds 
and a marshmallow enclosed in each one before 
frying. Sufficient for about fifty doughnuts. 

RYZON PARISIAN CRULLERS 
yi cupful (2 ounces) butter. 

1 level cupful {}4 pound) sugar. 

2 egg yolks. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls (^4 pound) flour. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 

I level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 

}i teaspoonful powdered mace. 

3 egg whites. 

Extra flour. 

Powdered sugar. 
Cream butter and sugar together, add yolks of 
eggs well beaten, milk, vanilla, flour sifted with 
Ryzon, salt and spices. Mix carefully, fold in 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and enough 
flour to make a soft dough that can be rolled 
out thin. Cut into oblongs, make four gashes 
through the center lengthwise, and run the fin- 
gers in and out of the gashes to separate them. 
Fry in plenty of smoking hot fat, then drain 
and roll in powdered sugar. Sufficient for thirty 
crullers. 



RYZON POTATO FRIED CAKES 

BY MRS. CLARENCE G. HORTON, SAND LAKE, N. Y. 

2 medium-sized potatoes. 
2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter sub- 
stitute. 

2 well-beaten eggs. 

I >^ cupfuls (^ pound) sugar. 
yi cupful (i gill) sweet milk. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

5 levSl cupfuls (iK pounds) flour. 

Boil an4 mash potatoes. Stir in the butter 
before they get cold. Then add the eggs, sugar, 
milk and flour sifted with Ryzon. 

Knead more flour in on board if desired. Cut 
and fry in deep hot fat. 

Sufficient for fifty-six Iried cakes. 

RYZON SMALL CAKES INCLUD- 
ING SHORTBREADS 

RYZON CALLAS 

BY HELEN WILSON, AMES, IOWA. 

3 eggs. 

1 level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

I level cupful (yi pound) flour. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

Beat the eggs slightly. Add sugar, flour and 
Ryzon sifted together, and cold water. Beat 
three minutes. Drop by tablespoonfuls on a 
greased and floured tin. Bake in a moderate 
oven until light brown. 




While still hot roll into the shape of a cornu- 
copia and tie with a string to keep shape. 

When cold fill with sweetened and flavored 
whipped cream. Add powdered sugar to an egg 
yolk — beat until stifi" enough to hold its shape. 
Use a little of this to form stamen. This dessert 
will resemble a calla lily in appearance. 

Sufficient for twelve callas. 



RYZON BLUEBERRY OR HUCKLEBERRY 
TEA CAKE 

BY MRS. ELIZABETH L. BROWN, 
SOMERVILLE, MASS. 

yi cupful {% pound) butter. 
iK level cupfuls (J^ pound) sugar. 
2 eggs. 

1 cupful {yi pint) milk. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 

2 cupfuls (l pt.) blueberries or huckle- 

berries. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly together, 
add eggs well beaten, and milk. Sift flour twice 
with Ryzon and salt, and add to other ingre- 
dients. Dust berries with flour and add them to 
the batter. Mix carefully and divide into two 
weU-greased square cake tins, and bake in a steady 
oven for three-fourths of an hour. Cut into 
squares and serve hot with butter and powdered 
sugar. Sufficient for twelve squares. 

This batter may be baked in greased muffin 
tins. 

RYZON MADELINES 

I cupful (8 ounces) butter. 

I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

6 eggs. 

I teaspoonful lemon extract. 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
Fondant icing. See page 44. 
Glace cherries. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly together 
with a wooden spoon, add eggs, one at a time, and 
beat well, then add extract, and flour sifted with 
Ryzon and salt. Mix well. 

Carefully grease some plain dariole or tirabale 
molds and set them on a baking tin. Fill molds 
three-fourths full with mixture, and bake in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes. 

When cold, turn upside down and pipe a spot of 
fondant on each one. Finish by placing a half 
cherry in the center of each spot of icing. 

"Sufficient for twelve Madelines. 

Madelines are cakes of great reputation in 
France. The Madelines of Commercy had a 
special local reputation, the consequence mainly, 
it was reported, of the admiration which a Polish 
King manifested for them when he traveled in 
France, but this local reputation was more prob- 
ably the result of the accident that a Madame 
Perrotin de Barmond had a cook who made very 
good madelines, and as her name happened to be 
Madeline Paumier, she was credited locally, and 
quite unduly, with the invention of the cakes. 



Frize Recipe 
RYZON DAINTY ORANGE TEA CAKES 

BY MRS. C. C. BIGELOW, TARPON SPRINGS, FLA. 

I yi level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I yi level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 

3 eggs, separated. 

I tablespoonful, orange juice. 
I ^ level cupfuls {yi pound) sugar (scant). 

I level teaspoonful grated orange rind. 

yi cupful (i gill) boiling water. 

yi teaspoonful salt. 

Orange Frosting: 
Confectioners' sugar. 
I orange. 
Candied orange peel. 

For Cake: — Beat yolks of eggs thoroughly, 
add strained orange juice and sugar and beat for 
ten minutes, then add salt, orange rind, boiling 
water, whites of eggs stiffly beaten, and flour 
sifted with Ryzon. Divide into small greased 
and floured gem pans, and bake in a quick oven 
for ten minutes. Cool and ice with orange 
frosting,' and decorate with tiny pieces of candied 
orange peel. 

For Frosting: — Sift confectioners' sugar into 
a bowl (about two cupfuls), add strained juice of 
orange and beat well together; if too thin add 
a little more confectioners' sugar. 

Sufficient for twenty cakes. 



RYZON DAINTY CINDERELLAS 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
yi cupful {yi pound) butter. 
I level cupful (^ pound) sugar. 
I egg. 

yi cupful {yi gill) milk. 
r teaspoonful orange or almond extract. 
I egg white. 

Sift flour and Ryzon twice. Cream butter and 
sugar thoroughly together, add egg well beaten, 
milk, extract and flour. Mix well, turn out onto 
a floured baking board and roU out about one- 
half inch in thickness. 

The Cinderellas should be cut out with fancy 
cake cutters in diamonds, triangles, squares, 
hearts, stars and rounds. Brush tops of cakes 
with unbeaten white of egg and dust over with 
granulated sugar. Place on greased tins, without 
letting the cakes touch each other, and bake in a 
quick oven until nicely browned. 

Sufficient for forty cakes. 



50 



RYZON FRUIT BARS 

BY MRS. JAMES RICHARDS, HOUGHTON, MICH. 

2 eggs beaten with a pinch of salt. 

1 level cupful {}4 pound) sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls boiling water. 

I level cupful (>< pound) chopped nuts. 

I level cupful (>< pound) dates. 

1 level cupful (j< pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I teaspoonful vanilla. 

Break eggs into a bowl, beat, then add other 
ingredients in the order given, sifting flour and 
Ryzon together. Pour into a shallow greased 
pan and cut in squares when cold. 

Sufficient for twenty-four bars. 



RYZON TEA TABLE DAINTIES 

BY MRS. KATE LOWRY, CHICAGO, ILL. 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level teaspoonful sugar. 

I cupful {}i pint) milk. 
24 sugared dates. 
24 marshmallows. 
}4 cupful ground nuts. 

Sift flour, Ryzon, sugar and salt together. 
Rub in the butter and add milk. Roll out thin 
and cut with a small round cutter. On each 
round place a sugared date which has been 
stuffed with a marshmallow and sprinkle with 
ground nuts. Turn half the dough over it. 
Pinch the edges and brush with the yolk of an 
egg. Bake until brown. 

Sufficient for twenty- four dainties. 



RYZON PARKINS 

12 blanched almonds. 

I ^ level cupfuls (X pound) fine oatmeal. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level cupful (X pound) flour. 

}4 cupful (X pound) butter. 

I level cupful (6 ounces) brown sugar. 

I level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 

I level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, 

}4 level teaspoonful powdered nutmeg. 

X cupful (X pound) molasses. 

1 egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Split almonds. Mix oatmeal and flour together, 
rub in butter with tips of fingers, sift and add 
Ryzon, spices and sugar. Warm molasses and 
pour it in; beat up egg, and add it with milk. 



Mix well and divide into pieces, make these into 
fiat cakes, lay them on greased tins, place half 
an almond on top of each, and bake in a slow 
oven for twenty minutes. 

Sufficient for twenty-four parkins. 

RYZON OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES 
CAKE 

BY MRS. ELLA SMITH, BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

X cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 

}4 cupful (4 ounces) shortening. 

I egg. 

X cupful (l gill) sour milk. 
X cupful (i gill) molasses. 

I level teaspoonful ginger. 

1 level teaspoonful cinnamon. 
3 level cupfuls (X pound) flour. 

X level teaspoonful soda. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

Cream sugar and shortening. Add well-beaten 
egg, cinnamon, ginger, molasses and milk — soda 
dissolved in one tablespoonful hot water. Then 
add flour and Ryzon, which have been sifted 
together. Turn into well-greased tin. Bake in 
moderate oven about thirty minutes. 

RYZON BETSY JUMBLES 

BY MRS. J. C. MERRIL,- NEW YORK CITY 

2 cupfuls (i pint) molasses. 

X cupful (X pound) butter substitute. 

I cupful (K pint) hot water. 

I level teaspoonful ginger. 

1 level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

6 level cupfuls (iX pounds) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
X level teaspoonful soda. 

Put molasses, ginger, cinnamon and hot water 
in a mixing bowl. Add melted butter — soda 
dissolved in a little hot water. Then add flour 
and Ryzon which have been sifted together. 
Turn out on molding board. Roll out one- 
quarter inch, cut and bake in a quick oven. 

RYZON COCOANUT BUNS 

BY MRS. JOHN W. BOGART, HACKENSACK, N. J. 

2 level cupfuls (X pound) flour. 

X cupful (X pound) butter substitute. 

X cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I egg. 

}4 cupful (2 ounces) finely chopped cocoa- 
nut. 
X teaspoonful salt. 

X cupful (l gill) milk, or more to make a 
stiff batter. 



51 



Rub butter into flour, add Ryzon, salt, sugar, 
cocoanut, the egg well beaten, and milk. Mold 
in small buns, place on a greased tin, dash over 
with milk and sprinkle with cocoanut. Bake in 
hot oven fifteen minutes. 

RYZON OATMEAL SHORTBREAD 

BY MRS. ISA WILLIAMS, CEDAR, B. C. 




1 level cupful (>2 pound) butter. 

2 level cupfuls (>^ pound) flour. 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) fine Scotch 

oatmeal. 
X cupful (^ pound) sugar. 

1 egg. 

Make a ring of the flour into which Ryzon 
has been sifted on a pastry board. Break egg 
into center, add sugar on top, mix together — ■ 
add butter, mix all together, then draw in the 
flour which is in ring around the mixture — mix 
it lightly, rubbing with the hands to form a 
paste. Knead very little after paste is formed. 
Make into cakes. Prick with fork and bake until 
brown in moderate oven. Can be decorated 
with almonds or peel, if liked, or dusted with 
sugar, or iced. 

SufiScient for ten shortbreads. 

RYZON SCOTCH SHORTBREAD 

2 cupfuls (i pound) butter. 

i}4 level cupfuls (12 ounces) sugar. 

3 eggs. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

7 level cupfuls {i^ pounds) fiour. 

I level cupful {yi pound) rice flour. 

Wash butter in cold water, and squeeze it dry 
on a clean cloth. Place it on a baking board and 
knead it with sugar and when they become well 
incorporated, knead in eggs with the hands. Sift 
the flour, rice flour and Ryzon onto the board, 
gradually knead them into the butter mixture, 
making a smooth paste. Divide into four pieces, 
make each piece into a smooth round cake, 
pinching the edges with the fingers. Stab all over 
with a skewer or a fork to prevent the paste rising. 
Lay on papered baking tins, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven for forty minutes. Take from the oven 
when ready and allow to lie on tin until cold. 

Dust cakes with fine sugar, and at serving time 
break them into pieces. 

Sufficient for four shortbreads. 



At New Year in Scotland, and at Christmas in 
England, a 'good deal of decorated shortbread is 
sold with appropriate mottoes, of which "For 
Auld Lang Syne " is the greatest favorite. These 
mottoes may be made with caraway comfits, or 
with candied citron peel, or with icing put 
through a bag and tube. 

RYZON GINGERBREAD 

I cupful (,yi pint) molasses. 
yi cupful iyi pound) butter. 
X cupful (X pound) sugar. 

I cupful {yi pint) boiling water. 

I level cupful {}{ lb.) chopped walnut 
meats. 

1 level cupful {}4 lb.) chopped seeded 

raisins. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls (12 ounces) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level teaspoonfuls powdered cinnamon. 

1 level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 

2 eggSj 

Put molasses into a mixing bowl with butter 
and sugar, pour in boiling water and stir well, 
and let cool. Then add nuts, raisins, flour sifted 
with Ryzon, spices and salt. Beat up eggs and 
add them, then turn into a well-greased and 
floured shallow pan, and bake in a moderate oven 
for forty minutes. Cool, and cut in squares. 

Gingerbread is probably one of the oldest 
forms of cake known. It has certainly been 
known since the fourteenth century, when it was 
made and sold in Paris. It was formerly made of 
rye flour kneaded with ginger and other spices, 
and sweetened with honey. In some parts of 
Europe, gingerbread is still made in larger or 
smaller quantities, and baked in large blocks to 
be sold by weight. These are made with white 
or light brown dough mixed with honey and 
glucose. They are of a very light spongy texture, 
quite different from that made in this country. 

Sufficient for eighteen squares. 

RYZON SOFT GINGERBREAD 

BY MRS. HERMAN WADDEY, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

I cupful {'jA pint) molasses. 
yi cupful {i}4 gills) sweet or sour milk. 
I yz level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
I egg. 
I level tablespoonfuKK ounce) shortening. 

1 level teaspoonful ginger. 

yi level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

2 le\ el teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful soda. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 



S2 



Beat egg, add molasses, ginger, cinnamon, salt 
and milk, soda dissolved in hot water, flour and 
Ryzon sifted together, then melted shortening. 
Bake in sheet tin. Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON CABINET CAKES 

5 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) rice flour. 
}i cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
}i cupful (6 ounces) butter. 
2 ounces sweet chocolate. 

1 teaspoonful grated lemon rind. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) shredded candied citron 
peel. 

2 eggs. 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
yi cupful (i gill) golden syrup. 

1 cupful {yi pint) milk. 

A few blanched^and sliced almonds. 

Sift flour, rice flour, salt, sugar and Ryzon 
into a basin, add 'butter and rub it into these 
ingredients until it is like bread crumbs, then add 
chocolate grated, lemon rind, peel, eggs well 
beaten, vanilla extract, and syrup mixed with 
milk. Mix carefully, and divide into greased and 
floured small cake tins, sprinkle the tops with 
some almonds, and bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Turn out and cool. 

Sufficient for twenty-four cakes. 

RYZON FAIRY ROCK CAKES 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

6 tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) butter. 

yi cupful (i ounce) chopped nut meats. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) currants. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) sugar. 

yi level teaspoonful powdered mace. 

Pinch salt. 
2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 
Sift flour and Ryzon into a basin, rub butter 
into flour and mix well. Add nut meats and 
currants, and mix with sugar, mace, salt. Beat 
up eggs, add milk, and mix gradually with the dry 
ingredients into a fairly stiff paste. Put this in 
small heaps on a buttered tin, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven for twenty minutes. 

Take from the oven and cover with sifted sugar. 
Sufficient for twelve cakes. 

RYZON FRENCH COOKIES 

by MRS. M. L. NENANS, WINSLOW, ILL. 

I yi level cupfuls {yi pound) brown sugar. 

1 level cupful {yi pound) butter. 

2 eggs. 



2 level tablespoonfuls cocoa. 

I cupful {yi pint) cold coffee. 

I cupful chopped raisins. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

yi level teaspoonful cloves. 

I teaspoonful vanilla. 

3 level cupfuls (^ pound) flour. 

Cream butter, sugar and eggs in mixing bowl, 
add cocoa, cinnamon, cloves, vanilla, coffee and 
raisins. Then add flour and Ryzon sifted 
together. Pour into well-greased dripping pan. 
Bake in quick oven about twenty minutes. When 
cold cut in squares and spread with frosting. 

See page 44 for frostings. 

RYZON GINGER COOKIES 

BY MRS. GEORGE MEDLER, CHEVEY CHASE, MD. 

I level cupful {yi pound) brown sugar. 

I level cupful (yi pound) butter substitute. 

1 cupful {yi pint) Barbadoes molasses. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 
2yi level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level teaspoonful ginger. 
yi level teaspoonful cloves. 
yi level teaspoonful cinnamon. 
yi level teaspoonful allspice. 

6 level cupfuls {lyi pounds) flour. 

To mix, cream sugar and shortening, add mo- 
lasses, eggs, salt and spices, flour and Ryzon 
which have been sifted together, and turn out on 
well-floured board, roll one-eighth inch thick, 
cut any shape desired, bake in quick oven until 
golden brown. Sufficient for fifty cookies. 

Note: — If unsalted shortening is used double 
the proportion of salt. 

RYZON CHOCOLATE SQUARES 

4 eggs, separated. 

yi cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
yi teaspoonful almond extract. 
I yi level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level cupful {yi pound) flour. 
Chocolate frosting. See page 44. 
Chopped nut meats. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and the sugar for ten 
minutes, remove the beater, add the extract, the 
flour sifted with the Ryzon, and the whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a greased 
and floured baking sheet, and bake in a hot oven 
for fifteen minutes. Turn out to cool, then cut 
in squares. Dip the pieces of cake in chocolate 
icing and roll in chopped nut meats. 

Sufficient for ten squares. 



S3 



Chapter V 

Ryzon Pastry, Pies, Shortcakes, 
Tarts and Tartlets 

"Cut and come again, Other dainties fade, 

The sirup upward springing, The newest oft the fleetest. 

While my life and taste remain. But of all the pies now made 

To thee my heart is clinging ; The apple pie is still the sweetest.' 




ASTRY making supplies plenty of material for study, and indeed, when carried to per- 
fection, is almost a fine art. A start should be made with the plainer kinds of pastry, 
and especially those in which the fat is well mixed with the flour before the rolling 
begins, such as Short Paste. When those have been thoroughly mastered, the more 
difficult kinds may be attempted. There are several kinds of fat which can be used 
for pastry making, such as butter, lard, drippings, oil, clarified fat, margarine, and 
various kinds of vegetable fats now on the market. 

Butter is the best to use for all the finer kinds of pastry, but it must be carefully chosen and free from 
taint of any kind. 

The very best butter rhust be used for making puff pastry. When a more economical pastry is 
wanted, good drippings, lard or margarine may be used, or a mixture of lard and butter is good. Good 
crust made with drippings is one of the most wholesome kinds of pastry for children. Shredded suet 
is used principally for making boiled pastry, the fat taken from the kidney being the best, and the beef 
suet preferred to mutton. ■ 

Water is usually the only liquid required for mixing the pastry. It must be as cold as possible, and 
in hot weather a piece of ice should be added to it. The exact amount of water to use is not always 
given in the recipes, as so much depends on the consistency of the fat used, and also upon whether the 
flour is a very dry kind or not. It will generally be found that the finer the flour the more water it will 
require. In the richer kinds of pastry a beaten egg or the yolk of an egg is used together with a little 
water. 

Be careful that all utensils used, such as baking board, rolling-pin, basins, spoons, etc., are particu- 
larly clean and cool. The board should be smooth and perfectly flat. A marble slab is always to be 
preferred to a wooden board, as it is so cool and level. The rolling-pin should also be smooth and not 
too heavy. Handle it very lightly. 

Clean and cool hands are always imperative. Those who have very warm hands should mix the 
pastry as much as possible with a knife. 

Make the pastry in a cool place, not in a hot kitchen. The colder pastry is kept during the making, 
the lighter it will be, because it will contain more air. Cold air occupies much less space than hot. 
The colder the air the greater, consequently, will be its expansion when put into a hot oven. The 
paste must be handled and rolled lightly. Heavy rolling and handling expels the air. Never allow 
pastry to stick to the baking board, but lift it occasionally on the rolling-pin and dust a little flour 
underneath. If the rolling-pin sticks to the pastry, dust a little flour over it, and brush it off again 
lightly with a small brush kept for the purpose. 

In making short crust, cut the butter or fat into the flour with a knife, then rub the shortening lightly 
into the flour with the tips of the fingers, and do not use more water than is necessary in mixing it. 
It is a common mistake to use too much water; to do so deprives the paste of its shortening. 

54 



Short paste is the best for children and people of weak digestion; the flour in it, being more thoroughly 
incorporated with the fat, gets better cooked. It is also more capable of mastication than flaky crusts, 
which are liable to be swallowed in flakes. 

Puff paste is a kind of fine sandwich. There should be a certain number of layers of dough and layers 
of butter. Take every care, therefore, to prevent the butter breaking through the dough. The manu- 
facture of this pastry requires patience, because if it is not properly cooled between the turns, the 
friction of rolling will melt the butter and cause it to smear into the dough. 

However well the pastry may be made, success will not be attained unless the oven is rightly heated; 
the very lightest crusts will be totally spoiled in the baking if this important point is not carefully 
attended to. If the oven is not very hot the fat will melt and run out of the pastry before the starch 
grains in the flour burst; consequently, they cannot afterwards expand, however hot the oven may be 
made; and in this way the paste will becom'e heavy. 

Take great care that the oven is hot when the paste is put into it. The heat of the oven may be 
tested with a thermometer or by putting into it a small piece of the pastry. If this piece of pastry 
broi*ns fairly quickly, the oven may be considered hot enough. For puff pastry, the thermometer 
should register about 340° F. to begin with and when the pastry is well risen the heat may be reduced 
to 325° F. 

For meat pies about 300° F. will be hot enough, and for the plainer kinds of pastry the temperature 
may be still a little lower. 

There is so much difference in ovens, that the hottest part of one may be the coolest of another. 
The oven door should be opened and closed as gently as possible, and not oftener than is necessary. 
Watch the paste carefully that it does not take too dark a color. If it becomes too brown before it is 
sufficiently cooked, cover it over with a double piece of paper that has been slightly sprinkled with 
water. 

If the pastry is not to be used at once when taken from the oven, allow it to cool slowly in a warm 
kitchen. When light pastry is transported at once to a cold larder, or pantry, it is very apt to become 
heavy. 

If any paste is left over do not bake it simply because it is made; scraps will come in nicely for little 
pies, entrees, savories, or fried for decoration; they are always useful to have on hand. Keep in the 
ice box. 

Some cooks frequently, and with excellent effect, introduce various flavorings into their crusts, mix- 
ing some with the addition of lemon juice, while giving to others a delicate and very agreeable gout by 
means of very finely chopped parsley, onion, shallot, thyme, bayleaf, or even mushrooms. Or in the 
case of pastry for sweet dishes (it may be sweetened or not, just as individual inclination guides) grated 
lemon or orange rind, spice of any kind preferred, grated nuts, or a judicious addition of a suitable 
extract, such flavoring being particularly effective in connection with suet or butter crust for steamed 
or boiled puddings. 

Another way to find the right heat for pastry is to lay a piece of white paper in the oven, if it browns 
quickly the oven is hot enough; it should not be so hot that the pastry will "catch" quickly before it is 
risen, or before the contents of a pie or tart are cooked. 

To prevent this a piece of greased paper may be laid lightly on the top; if the oven is very fierce, it 
may be slightly damped. 

Pastry should never be baked in an oven in which meat is being roasted or with any other dish which 
generates steam, as the moist heat would be apt to destroy the crispness of the pastry. 

Ovens in which heat comes from the bottom are decidedly the best for either pastry or cakes; but 
no one should expect to bake well in an oven which they do not thoroughly understand. 

55 ~~ 



RYZON PASTRIES 

RYZON MATZOTH PASTRY 

I yi matzoths. 
2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter or lard. 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

yi cupful {lyi, ounces) matzoth meal. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i oz.) powdered 

sugar. 
Pinch of salt. 
2 eggs. 

Cover matzoths with water, soak for fifteen 
minutes and press dry. Heat butter and add 
soaked matzoths. Cook for two minutes, sift and 
add matzoth meal, sugar, Ryzon, salt, and eggs 
well beaten. Mix well, and press into a greased 
pie plate with the hands as it is impossible to roll 
this pastry. Have pastry one-fourth inch thick. 



RYZON SHORT PASTE 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) butter or'lard. 
Cold water. 

This is the easiest form of pastry making, and 
it is best to learn the art of making this first 
thoroughly before going on to the puff or, as 
some people call it, flaky pastry. 

Sift Ryzon, flour and salt into a basin, add 
butter or lard and cut it into small pieces in the 
flour with a knife, then rub it in with the tips of 
the fingers until it is aE crumbled like bread 
crumbs. 

Work into it a little cold water, getting it to a 
stiffish paste that can be rolled easily without 
either sticking to the board or the rolling-pin. 
The quantity of water needed depends a good 
deal on the flour and on the temperature; for the 
above, about one-half cupful of cold water is a 
fair average, though in cold weather, and with 
some flours, it may take nearly twice as much. 

This crust must be rolled out at once to the 
thickness required, for if rolled too much it 
becomes heavy. 

For a richer crust take two cupfuls of flour, one 
cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of Ryzon, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, the beaten yolk of one egg, and enough cold 
water to moisten it. 

Sift flour into a basin with Ryzon and salt, 
add butter and chop it in fine with a knife, then 
rub the fat into the flour by crumbling it very 
lightly with the tips of the fingers, not by 
pressing and rolling between the palms of the 
hands, as is a common practice. 



Add yolk of egg, lemon juice, and the water 
slowly and gradually as the quantity depends so 
much on the fineness of the flour; the finer the 
latter, the more water will it take up. 

It is easy to tell when sufficient water has been 
added, for when most of the liquid has been put 
in, the dough will cling together in little rolls, 
which on being pressed with the finger will not 
only cling together but will gather to them any 
loose flour there may be round them; as long as 
there is the least crumbliness in the dough when 
pressed, more liquid is wanted. 

When properly mixed, the dough can be gath- 
ered into a ball, and used to wipe the mixing bowl 
out, like a cloth. 

Make it into a neat oblong shape on a floured 
baking board and press it out gently but firmly 
at first with the roller, then roll it out with quick 
short rolls to the right thickness, being alj?ays 
careful to stop the roller just short of the edges 
of the paste. Roll it on the one side only, and 
be careful that it does not stick to the board or 
roller, keeping both these lightly floured, but do 
not overdo this flouring, as over-flouring, like 
over-rolling, will make the pastry hard and tough. 
To lift the paste right off the board, turn the 
upper end over the rolling-pin, and wind it up 
like a shade, unrolling it again in the same way. 
This saves dragging it out of shape. 

This pastry is sometimes called Biscuit Paste, 
and it is suitable for pies, tarts, tartlets, puffs, 
biscuits and many fancy sweets. 

Sufficient for three pies. 



RYZON CHOUX PASTE 



level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

level cupful ( % pound) flour. 

cupful {yi pint) water. 

tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) butter. 

level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) sugar. 

Pinch of salt. 
yi teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
4 eggs. ■ 

Sift flour, which should be of the finest quaUty 
and put it in a cool part of the oven to dry. Pour 
water into a small saucepan, add butter, sugar, 
and salt, and bring to the boil, but do not let 
mixture reduce in quantity. Add vanilla, and 
flour sifted with Ryzon, and stir these well to- 
gether over the flre with a wooden spoon, until 
the paste is compact and dry, and does not ad- 
here to the pan or spoon. 

This is called a "panada." It should not be 
over-cooked, or it will become oily. 

Remove saucepan from the fire, and add eggs, 
one at a time, beating each one in very thor- 
oughly. Keep the paste at a medium thickness, 
not too soft, not too stiff, and only using the 



56 



fourth egg if necessary. If the paste is too stiff, 
it will not rise properly; and if too soft, it will 
spread and lose its shape. Cool before using. 
This pastry is suitable for cream puffs, eclairs 
profiteroles, beignets, and various fancy cakes. 

For eclairs, the mixture must be put into a 
forcing bag with a tube and squeezed out of this 
in straight pieces about one-half inch in diameter, 
and three and one-half to four inches in length ; 
for profiteroles and cream puffs, in little mounds 
varying from the size of a pea to that of a small 
mushroom; and for beignet souffles, in short 
lengths about one inch. 

In making eclairs, hold the bag obliquely to 
the baking tin. Let the end of the piece of paste 
rest on this, and continue forcing until it is long 
enough, drawing the bag at the same time 
slightly backwards. Then cut off the paste close 
to the tube, and go on to the next, laying down 
the pieces of paste about two inches apart, so as 
to allow room for rising. 

For cream puffs and profiteroles, the bag must 
be held perpendicularly, the tube to begin with 
almost touching the baking tin, and then only so 
far raised to allow the mixture to be deposited in 
little heaps of the size required. As each heap is 
finished, disengage the bag, not by raising it, but 
by giving it a jerk and a twist. The little profit- 
eroles for soup require a very small bag and tube 
as the heaps of paste for these should not be much 
larger than a pea. 

Eclairs and puffs should be baked in a moderate 
oven until well risen, crisp, and of a pale fawn 
color. They should be brushed over with a little 
beaten egg and milk, before baking, to give them 
a glaze. 

They rise a great deal and get quite hollow. 

ficlairs and ordinary sized puffs will take from 
thirty to forty minutes. Just before they are 
required, a hole large enough to admit the tube 
in a forcing bag may be made in each with a sharp 
knife, and they may be filled with custard, 
whipped cream or preserves. Sufficient for 12 
puffs. 

RYZON PUFF PASTE 

2 cupfuls (l pound) butter. 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

Cold water. 
I egg yolk. 
I tablespoonful lemon juice. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

This is the most elaborate and expensive of 
the flaky pastes, and both time and some dex- 
terity are required in its manufacture. 

Weigh butter, and let it lie in ice cold water 
for some time before using it. 



Chill flour and sift it onto a baking board or 
into a basin, scoop a hollow in the center, put in 
salt, dissolved in one tablespoonful of cold water, 
yolk of egg well beaten, lemon juice and just as 
much ice-cold water as is required to produce, 
without much kneading, a smooth, workable, but 
rather firm dough, of which no trace should ad- 
here to baking board. Work butter in the cold 
water until quite malleable, yet not unduly soft, 
squeeze from it all moisture in a clean cloth, and 
pat it between the hands into a flat square cake. 
The butter should be as nearly as possible of the 
same consistency as the paste, as if it is softer it 
will get rolled into it, and if harder it will break 
through it. Roll out paste to a little more than 
double the size of the slab of fat, and about one- 
fourth of an inch thick, lay the latter one-half, 
fold the other over, and place in refrigerator for 
thirty minutes. 

Now press paste across in three or four places 
with the roller, roll into a long strip, being care- 
ful that the butter does not break through. 
Sprinkle one-half teaspoonful of Ryzon on pastry 
each time it is rolled out. When butter melts in 
the oven the powder will effervesce and thus 
raise, or puff up the pastry more readily. Now 
fold pastry exactly in three, press down the folds, 
and lay the pastry aside in a cool place for fifteen 
minutes at least. This is called giving the pastry 
one "turn," and seven of these is the number 
usually required for puff pastry. 

The next time the pastry is rolled, place it with 
the joins at your right-hand side, and open ends 
towards you. Give it two "turns" this time, and 
again set it in a cool place for at least fifteen 
minutes. Repeat this until the pastry has had 
six rolls in all, then double the pastry instead of 
folding it in three, and finally roll it out to the 
desired size and thickness. 

The object of the cooling between the rolls is to 
keep the butter and paste in the distinct and 
separate layers in which it is the function of the 
rolling and folding to arrange them, and on 
which the lightness of the paste depends. 

In rolling, keep the pressure of the two hands 
as even as possible. If the strip of paste is in- 
clined to become curved, this shows that you are 
pressing more on rounded side than on the other. 

The great art in making puff pastry is to keep 
the butter from escaping, which it will do if the 
paste is too soft, or is rolled out too thinly, or not 
rolled out regularly. If the paste is not kept flat 
and even in the rolling it will not rise properly in 
the baking, but wUl have tough, hard streaks 
through it. 

The oven for puff pastry should be hot, but not 
fierce, the door kept shut until the paste is set, 
and, after baking, the pastry ought not at once to 



57 



be consigned to a cold place, but allowed to cool 
quite gradually. 

Puff pastry is suitable for vol-au-vent, patties, 
pies, and many fancy dishes. 

RYZON FLAKY PASTRY 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

1 level teaspoonftil salt. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) butter. 
]/i cupful (4 ounces) lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 
Ice Water. 

Divide shortening into four equal portions. 
Sift flour, Ryzon, and salt into a bowl, add one 
portion of the fat and rub it lightly into flour. 
Mix to a stiff paste with lemon juice and a little 
ice-water. Turn out onto floured baking board, 
roll out to an oblong piece, and distribute a 
second installment of the fat in small knobs over 
it, to within one-fourth inch of edge. Dredge a 
very little flour over, fold evenly in three, press 
edges together with rolling-pin to exclude the 
air, and lay away in a cold place, or in the 
refrigerator for ten minutes. Repeat processes 
with the chilling intervals until fat is used up, 
roll out to the requisite thickness, and use for pies 
or tartlets. Sufficient for three pies. 

RYZON RAISED PIE CRUST 

yi cupful (4 ounces) butter or lard. 
I cupful \]/i pint) hot water. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Put butter or lard and water into small sauce- 
pan, bring to a boil, but do not let mixture reduce 
in quantity. Sift Ryzon, flour and salt into a 
bowl and make a well in the center of the mixture. 
Pour in hot liquid, mixing first with a wooden 
spoon or a knife, as it is rather hot, then take the 
hand and mix into a compact paste. 

Turn out on a floured baking board, and knead 
lightly and quickly until free from cracks. 

This paste must be used while warm for making 
raised pies of pork, or mutton. See page 71. 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON PIE CRUST AND COOKIES IN ONE 

BY MRS. R. F. FINK, WHITE PLAINS, N. Y. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 

2 level cupfuls (i pound) sugar (scant) 
yi cupful (4 ounces) butter. 

3 eggs. 

yi cupful (3J^ ounces) milk. 
2 teaspoonfuls lemon extract. 



Sift flour and Ryzon onto a board and add 
sugar. Chop and rub butter through dry in- 
gredients, and when well mixed . make a large 
cavity in the center; place eggs therein. With a 
knife proceed to partly mix eggs with flour, then 
add milk and extract, being careful not to let the 
liquid flow off the board. Continue folding in 
flour into liquid with knife until dough can be 
kneaded by hand. When dough is well kneaded, 
cut a piece off, roll out and line a buttered pie 
pan with it. Spriifkle the dough in pan with a 
slight dusting of flour; this helps to absorb the 
moisture of whatever fruit is used. 

With rolling pin as a guide, cut narrow strips 
of rolled out dough, and lay them crosswise at 
equal intervals across the pie and over the fruit. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

COOKIES 

Prom trimmings left from pie crust, cookies 
can be made by kneading the pieces together, 
and rolling out again. 

If several kinds of cookies are desired, such as 
cocoanut, peanut or raisin, divide the dough in 
three parts. When the dough is partly rolled out, 
sprinkle well with nuts or raisins, and roll them 
into crust, and continue rolling until the pastry 
is desired thickness. Cut dough in any shape 
desired. Lay on greased tins and bake in a mod- 
erate oven until light brown. These cookies will 
keep crisp indefinitely, if kept in an air-tight tin 
can. 

Thus you have pie and cookies from the same 
dough. If desired, the dough may be kept in a 
bowl in the refrigerator for a week, or even longer, 
and thereby be ready for use at a moment's 
notice. Keeping in the refrigerator improves 
paste. Sufficient for three pies. 

RYZON SPICED PASTRY 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
4 level cupfuls (l pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

1 level teaspoonful powdered nutmeg. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered mace. 

lyi cupfuls (12 ounces) butter or lard. 

2 eggs. 

Juice of I lemon. 

4 level tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) sugar. 

Cold water. 

Sift flour, Ryzon, salt and spices onto a baking 
board. Make a hollow in center, put in shorten- 
ing, broken into small pieces, and incorporate 
eggs well beaten, strained lemon juice, sugar and 



S8 



enough water to make stiff paste. The flour 
should be worked in from the sides, using a knife. 
Knead lightly, roll out into a long even strip, fold 
in three, turn half way round and roll out again, 
again fold in three, and roll out as before, and 
leave in a cold place for one hour before use. 
Use for pie, tarts, tartlets, etc. 

RYZON HOT WATER PASTE 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter or lard. 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water. 
X level teaspoonful salt. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 

Beat butter to a cream, add boiling water and 
stir until dissolved, then add salt, Ryzon and 
flour. Mix and cool before using. 

RYZON VOL-AU-VENT 



Ryzon puff pastry. 
I beaten egg. 
Filling. 



See page 57. 



A vol-au-vent is one of the most recherche 
dishes of French cuisine, and one which the 
American cook is somewhat afraid of attempting. 
However, if once the making of puff paste has 
been mastered, the making of the pastry case 
itself should not present much difSculty. The 
puff pastry should only have had six turns for a 
vol-au-vent case. Roll out the pastry very 
evenly to about three-fourths inch in thickness 
and let it rest for a few minutes before cutting, to 
allow for shrinking. Then take a round or oval 
cutter the size required, and lay it on the top of 
the pastry, keeping it one-half inch from the edge 
in order to have a perfectly even piece of paste. 
Then cut round with a sharp pointed knife, hold- 
ing the knife slanting outwards from the cutter 
so as to make the lower edge of the pastry slightly 
wider in circumference than the upper. Now 
remove the cutter, and place the cut piece of 
paste on a wetted baking tin with the under side 
uppermost. During the baking the upper part of 
the vol-au-vent will shrink in width and become 
the same size as that which rests on the tin. Now 
brush over the top of the case with the beaten 
egg, and with a sharp knife or cutter mark a 
smaller round on the top, which can be removed 
afterwards to form the lid. Score the top across 
lightly with a knife, and pierce the pastry through 
to the tin two or three times. Then bake in a hot 
oven for forty minutes. When a nice color and 
well risen, remove the vol-au-vent from the oven. 



lift off the little lid of pastry, and with a fork 
scoop out all the soft paste from the tenter, being 
careful not to break the edges. The case should 
not be filled until just before serving. 

The filling is the most important part of the 
vol-au-vent. 

The foundation of this is a rich sauce of some 
kind, either brown or white, with a variety of 
different garnishes, such as small quenelles, mush- 
. rooms, truffles, small pieces of sweetbreads, 
chicken, veal, rabbit, etc., or if it is a fish vol-au- 
vent, quenelles of fish, small fillets of fish, pieces 
of lobster, oysters, crab meat, mussels, etc. The 
garnish must always be prepared and cooked 
beforehand and then made thoroughly hot in the 
sauce before being put into the pastry case. This 
dish is always served hot as an entree, entrement 
or savory. 

A vol-au-vent can also be made sweet by filling 
with a good compote or puree of fruit and 
whipped and sweetened cream. 

RYZON ONE-TWO-AND-THREE 
PIE CRUST 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

1 level cupful (^ pound) sifted flour. 
yi, level teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) lard or butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls ice-water. 

Sift the flour, salt and Ryzon together; add 
butter or lard and cut in with a knife, then rub it 
in lightly with the fingers, add water, mix and 
use. Sufficient for one pie. 

RYZON CHOPPED PASTRY 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
I level tablespoonful sugar. 

yi teaspoonful salt. 
I cupful {yi pound) butter. 
I egg. 

Juice of yi lemon. 
5 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

Sift flour, Ryzon, sugar and salt together into 
a basin, add butter, and chop it into flour mixture 
until well blended. Beat up egg, add strained 
lemon juice and water, and gradually mix into 
dry ingredients, chopping, not stirring, all the 
time. Roll out to a long, even strip, fold in three 
by bringing one end over the middle and lapping 
the other end over. Put it away in a cool place 
for ten minutes. This is called giving the pastry 
a turn. Roll and fold the pastry again and roll 
out and use as required. 

Use for pies, patties, etc. 




RYZON STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE — Master Recipe 
By Janet McKenzie Hill. Editor of "American Cookery," Boston, Mass. 



Master Recipe 
RYZON STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

2 quart baskets strawberries. 
iX level cupfuls (12 ounces) sugar. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls ()/i pound) pastry flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) butter. 

I cupful (>^ pint) milk (about). , 

Extra butter, for spreading layers. 

Cream, if desired. 
Hull, wash and drain berries, save a few choice 
berries for a garnish, cut rest in halves and mix 
with sugar. Sift together Ryzon, flour, and salt, 
and work in butter with two knives; add milk 
gradually, and mix to a soft dough with a knife. 
Press dough into two well-greased layer cake 
tins. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen to twenty 
Jiiinutes. Turn one layer upside down on a serv- 
ing dish, spread liberally with butter; pour on 
half the berries, and set the other layer above; 
spread with butter and rest of berries. Garnish 
with the whole berries and whipped cream if de- 
sired. This recipe may be used for other fruits, 
as blackberries, raspberries and sliced peaches. 



Sufficient for four to six people. 

This dough may be rolled and cut into large 
biscuits, and used for serving individual short- 
cakes. 

Prize Recipe 

RYZON CURRANT SHORTCAKES 

BY MRS. G. N. HARTLEY, PLAINFIELD, N. J. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls {^ pound) flour. 

J4 level teaspoonful salt. 

I level cupful {}4 pound) sugar. 

I cupful (,}4 pound) shortening. 

I level cupful (}4 pound) currants. 

I cupful {}4 pint) water (scant). 

Clean currants. Sift flour, Ryzon, sugar, and 
salt into a basin, add shortening, cut it in with a 
knife, and then rub it in with the tips of the 
fingers; add currants and water gradually, and 
turn out onto a floured baking board. Knead 
lightly and roll out about one inch thick; cut 
into three inch squares, and mark top of each 
square with a knife. Place apart on greased tins 
and bake iji a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot or cold. Sufficient for fifteen squares. 



60 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON GRAPEFRUIT SHORTCAKE 

BY MRS. WILLIAM J. MATHESON, NEW YORK CITY 

4 grapefruit. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (,}4 pound) flour. 
^2 teas -oonful salt. 

J4 cupful (4 ounces) butter. 

Milk. 

Sugar. 

Sauce: 

Juice of the four grapefruit. 
I tablespoonful cornstarch. 

3 tablespoonfuls (i^ ounces) butter. 
I cupful (>^ pound) sugar. 

I egg yolk. 

1 tablespoonful vanilla extract. 

For Shortcake: — Peel grapefruit. Separate 
sections carefully so as not to get in any of the 
pulp. Hold fruit over a bowl to keep juice. 
Break sections into little chunks, sprinkle with a 
little sugar and set aside (not in cold place) till 
shortcake is made. Mix flour, Ryzon and salt 
and sift into a basin. Add butter and chop it in 
with a silver knife until mealy, and wet to a soft 
consistency with cold milk. 

Grease and flour a round or square baking pan. 
Put dough in and press it out with fingers to 
about one inch thick. Place it in a hot oven for 
the first ten minutes, then lower heat and leave it 
for about ten minutes longer, or until it is brown. 

RYZON PIES 
RYZON APPLE PIE 

by MRS. GEO. MEDLER, CHEVEY CHASE, MD. 

Filling: 

6 to 8 medium-sized apples. 
^ cupful {}4 pound) sugar. 

2 level teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

Line a deep pie plate with Ryzon chopped 
pastry. See page 59. Place layer of thinly sliced 
apples in the dish, dust over with cinnamon and 
sugar — repeating until the dish is filled,, Add 
three tablespoonfuls cold water and fleclf*- 
with butter, place top crust on and bake 
in moderate oven until a golden brown. 

RYZON TRANSPARENT PIE 

Ryzon puff pastry, see page 57. 
X cupful {J4 pound) butter. 
I level cupful (X pound) sugar. 
3 eggs, separated. 



^ level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

' < lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls brandy or fruit juice. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
Line a pie plate with pastry. Cream butter 
and sugar thoroughly together, beat in jrolks of 
eggs, nutmeg, grated rind and strained juice of 
lemon, brandy and whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth with Ryzon. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven for thirty minutes. If liked, the edge 
of the pie may be decorated with meringue. 

RYZON PUMPKIN PIES 
4 cupfuls (l quart) stewed and strained 
pumpkin. 
l}4 level cupfuls (^ pound) sugar. 
I leyel teaspooiiful Ryzon. 
I level tablespoonful flour. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 
I level teaspoonful powdered mace. 
I level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

1 level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) milk. 

Ryzon chopped pastry, see page 59. 
Line two pie plates with pastry. Put pumpkin 
into a basin, add sugar, flour, salt, and Ryzon 
mixed tog^her, then stir in the spices and the 
milk; fill into the prepared pie plates and bake in 
a hot oven to a rich, golden-brown color. 

Note that this economical recipe contains no 
eggs. 

RYZON PUMPKIN PIE No. 2 
^ cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 
I level teaspoonfiil powdered cinnamon. 
I level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
i^lsvel cupfuls (J^ pint) steamed and 
strained pumpkin. 

3 eggs. 

I }^ cupfuls ( J^ pint) milk. 
}4 cupful (i gUl) cream. 
I tablespoorSul melted butter. 
Ryzon flaky pastry, see page 58. 
Put sugar into a bowl, add spices, salt, pump- 
kin, eggs slightly beaten, milk, cream and butter. 
Mix and pour into a pastry lined pie plate and 
bake in a moderate oven for three-fourths of an 
hour. Cool and serve. Sufficient for one pie. 




RYZON MINCE PIES 
Ryzon chopped pastry, see page 59. 
2 pounds (8 cupfuls) boiled lean beef 

(chopped). 
2 level cupfuls {}4 pound) chopped suet. 
2 level cupfuls (i pound) seeded raisins. 
2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) sultana raisins. 
8 level cupfuls (2 pounds) currants. 
2 level cupfuls {}4 pound) chopped candied 

citron peel. 
I level cupful (^ pound) blanched and 

chopped almonds. 

1 level tablespoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls powdered cinnamon. 
I level tablespoonful powdered mace. 

I level tablespoonful powdered nutmeg. 
I level tablespoonful powdered allspice. 

5 level cupfuls (2>^ pounds) sugar. 

4 pounds peeled and chopped apples. 
4 lemons. 

1 cupful {}4 pint) brandy. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) sherry wine. 

Put beef into a large mixing bowl, add sueti 
fruit well cleaned, peel, almonds, salt, spices, 
sugar, apples, grated rinds and strained juice of 
lemons, brandy and wine. Mix well and allow to 
stand over night, then mix again and divide into 
jars and seal. 

This mince meat will keep all winter in a, cool 
place. Let stand at least two weeks before using. 
Boiled cider may be used in place of brandy and 
wine. Sufficient for ten pies. 

For two mince pies : — Line two pie plates with 
a rich crust, fill with the mince meat mixture, 
put a crust on top, or strips, if preferred, brush 
over with beaten egg or milk, and bake in a hot 
oven for thirty minutes. Serve warm — not HOT. 

RYZON BAKEWELL PIE 

Ryzon short or flaky pastry. See pages 
56, 58. 

3 level tablespoonfuls jam or jelly. 

4 tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) butter. 

6 level tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) sugar. 
4 eggs. 

yi teaspoonful lemon extract. 
}4 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
4 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) flour. 
I level tablespoonful powdered sugar. 
Line a buttered pie plate with the pastry, then 
spread in jam or jelly. Melt butter with sugar 
in a small saucepan, add one of the eggs, with 
three yolks, and mix well; take from the fire, add 
lemon extract, and flour sifted with Ryzon. 

Spread this mixture over the jelly and bake in 
a moderate oven for forty minutes. 

Beat up remaining whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, add powdered sugar and beat again. , Pile 



on top of the pie and brown lightly in the oven. 
Serve hot or cold. 

If liked, the meringue may be placed around 
the pie. 

RYZON PARISIAN APPLE PIE 

Thinly sliced apples. 

I level cupful {yi potiiid) sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

I tablespoonful lemon juice. 
yi cupful {yi gill) water. 

1 tablespoonful (yi ounce) butter. 

2 eggs, separated. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
^ cupful {lyi gills) milk. 

Butter a pie plate and fill with apples; sprinkle 
in one-half of sugar, add nutmeg, lemon juice, 
and water. 

Cream butter and remainder of sugar together; 
add yolks of eggs and beat well, sift in Ryzon, 
flour and salt, add milk and beat for two minutes. 
Pour this batter over apples and bake in a 
moderate oven until apples are soft. 

Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth, then add 
two tablespooiifuls of sugar and beat again; 
spread this frosting over the apples and return to 
oven to brown lightly. Serve hot with hot milk. 

Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON DEEP APPLE PIE 

Ryzon chopped pastry, see page 59. 

8 to 12 tart apples. 

I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 
yi level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 

Invert in the center of a deep fireproof dish a 
teacup or pie funnel, then fill remaining space 
with apples, peeled, cored and quartered. Sprin- 
kle with sugar mixed with spices; or in place of 
sugar use grated maple sugar or molasses and 
sugar, half and half. RoU a strip of RyzoN 
pastry one-half inch wide, wet edge of dish with 
water, place paste on edge, then cover with a 
crust a little larger than the dish, with the full- 
ness thrown back in the center. Pinch cover to 
the rim and bake in a moderately hot oven 
until apples are tender. 

Sufficient for six persons. 

Sometimes deep apple pie is served with cream 
cheese. Mix a small cream cheese with one-half 
pint of whipped cream and one-half teaspoonful 
of salt. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with 
a star tube and press out on top of pie in a fancy 
pattern. Serve hot. 



62 



RYZOx\ LEMON MERINGUE PIE 

^ cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 
3 level tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 
I cupful {yi pint) boiling water. 
I tablespoonful {}4 ounce) butter. 

3 egg yolks. 

1 lemon rind, grated. 

4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 
Ryzon flaky pastry, see page 58. 

For Meringue: 
3 egg whites. 

3 level tablespoonfuls {i^/i ounces) sugar. 
fi tablespoonful lemon juice. 

For Pie : — Mix sugar and cornstarch in a small 
saucepan, add boiling water, stirring constantly, 
and cook for two minutes. Add butter, egg yolks 
well beaten, grated rind and lemon juice. Re- 
move from the fire and cool. 

Line a pie plate with Ryzon pastry, cutting the 
pastry larger than the plate and building up a 
rim; pinch with the fingers first dipped in flour. 
Pour in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty minutes, or until the pastry is done. 

For Meringue: — Beat whites of eggs until 
stiff, add gradually sugar and lemon juice, and 
continue beating for two minutes. Pile on the 
top of the pie and return to the oven to brown 
lightly. Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON TARTLETS 

RYZON COCOANUT TART 

Ryzon chopped pastry, see page 59. 

2 eggs, separated. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

1 level tablespoonful cornstarch. 

}i cupful (2 ounces) chopped cocoanut. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
yi teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

2 tablespoonfuls raspberry jam. 

I level tablespoonful {}4 ounce) sugar. 

Line a greased glass pie plate with pastry. 
Perforate it in several places with a fork before 
putting in the oven, to avoid blistering. Bake in 
a moderate oven until ready. 

Beat yolks of eggs with sugar. Heat milk 
(except two tablespoonfuls) and pour it slowly 
onto yolks of eggs, stirring all the time. Return 
this to the saucepan, and add cornstarch moist- 
ened with remainder of milk. Stir until well 
thickened, and then remove from the fire. Add 
cocoanut, Ryzon, extract, and whites of eggs 
stifHy beaten. Put jam at the bottom of pastry 
case, and mixture on the top. Brown lightly in 
the oven. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve the 
tart either hot or cold. Sufficient for four persons. 



RYZON APPLE TARTLETS 
Ryzon flaky pastry, see page 58. 

1 pound apples. (About 4 apples.) 

2 tablespoonfuls water. 
4 cloves. 

yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I level tablespoonful flour. 

Roll out pastry, cut in rounds, and line greased 
tartlet pans ; peel, core and cut apples into small 
pieces, put into a saucepan with water and 
cloves; stew until soft, add sugar and butter, 
when dissolved rub all through a sieve. Beat up 
eggs with milk, add flour sifted with Ryzon and 
add to apples. MiX'well, and put two tablespoon- 
fuls of this mixture into tartlet pans, and bake in 
a moderate oven for liwenty minutes. 

Sufficient for fourteen tartlets. 

RYZON FLORENCE TARTLETS 
Ryzon flaky pastry, see page 58. 
yi cupful {% pound) butter. 
yi cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

3 eggs. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I level cupful {yi pound) cake crumbs. 

Strawberry preserve. 

Meringue. 
Line greased tartlet pans with pastry. Cream 
butter and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, 
beat again, add cake crumbs and Ryzon. Divide 
into tartlet tins and bake in a moderate oven for 
twelve to fifteen minutes. Place a little straw- 
berry preserve on each, and then put meringue 
on top, using a bag and tube. Color some of the 
meringue pink, and pipe a fine line round at the 
top. Sufficient for twenty-four tartlets. 

RYZON ORANGE TARTLETS 

Ryzon chopped pastry, see page 59. 

Orange marmalade. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) butter. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) sugar. 

I egg. 

yi orange. , 

yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

y4 cupful (2 ounces) flour. 
Line small patty pans with pastry. Put one 
teaspoonful of orange marmalade in each and set 
aside in a cool place. Cream sugar and butter 
thoroughly together, add egg well beaten, grated 
rind and strained juice of half of orange, and flour 
sifted with Ryzon. Mix and divide into pre- 
pared tins. Bake in a hot oven from twelve to 
fifteen minutes. Sufficient for twelve tartlets. 



63 




RYZON STEAMED SNOWBALLS— Master Recipe 
By Elizabeth O. Hbller, Denver School of Cookery 



Chapter VI 



Ryzon Puddings 



Master Recipe 
RYZON STEAMED SNOWBALLS 

With Hot Marshmallow Sauce 

yi cupful (4 ounces) butter. 

I level cupful (}4 pound) sugar. 
2,yi level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2}^ level cupfuls (9 ounces) flour. 
yi teaspoonf ul salt. 
yi ' cupful (l gill) milk. 

I teaspoonful orange extract. 

4 egg whites. 
Hot Marshmallow Sauce; 
20 marshmallows 

I level cupful (>^ pound) sugar. 

yi cupful (i gill) water. 

Sherry wine or fruit juice to flavor. 

For Snowballs: — Cream butter, add sugar 
gradually. Sift flour, Ryzon, and salt together, 
add to first mixture alternately with milk. Add 
extract, beat egg whites to a stiff froth, fold into 
mixture, and beat well. Fill buttered cups two- 
thirds full, cover with greased papers and steam 
for thirty-five minutes. Serve hot with sauce. 

For Sauce : — Soften marshmallows in a mod- 
erate oven but do not brown them. Put sugar 
and water into a saucepan and boil until syrup 



spins a thread when tested in cold water, 
or registers 2 1 8° F . , by candy thermometer. Add 
marshmallows and beat until mixture is smooth; 
flavor with sherry wine or fruit juice. Keep 
hot in a double boiler. If sauce seems too thick 
add boiling' water drop by drop until of the right 
consistency. Sufficient for ten snowballs. 

RYZON APPLE DROPS 

BY MRS. M. ESKOLIN, NORTH COLEBROOK, CONN. 

3 level tablespoonfuls {lyi ounces) sugar. 
3 eggs. 

5 tablespoonfuls milk. 
I yi cupfuls (6 ounces) flour 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 level tablespoonful (K ounce) butter. 
3 tablespoonfuls whipped cream. 

2 good sized apples chopped (not very sour) . 
Beat together egg yolks and sugar. Add milk, 

flour sifted with Ryzon, salt, cinnamon, butter, 
whipped cream and apples. Add stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve 
with maple syrup or sweet sauce. Sufficient for 
twelve. 



RYZON ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) currants. 
2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) sultana raisins. 
2 level cupfuls (K pound) glace cherries, 
2 level cupfuls (i pound) seeded raisins. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) chopped suet. 
2 23 level cupfuls (i pound) brown sugar. 
4 level cupfuls (i pound) shredded mixed 
candied peels. 

pound peeled and chopped apples. 

level cupfuls (K pound) bread crumbs. 

level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

level cupfuls ("^ pound) flour. 

level teaspoonful salt. 

tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

level cupful (X pound) blanched and 
chopped ahnonds. 

orange rinds, grated. 

lemon rinds, grated. 

nutmegs, grated. ' 

level tablespoonful powdered cinnamon. 

level tablespoonful powdered ginger. 
10 eggs. 
I cupful (^ pint) brandy or fruit juice. 

Clean fruit carefully and put it into a large 
mixing bowl, add cherries cut in halves, sugar, 
peels, apples, bread crumbs, Ryzon, flour, salt, 
butter, nuts, rinds of oranges and lemons, spices, 
eggs well beaten, and brandy or fruit juice. Mix 
thoroughly and allow to stand in a cool place for 
one hour. Divide into two well-greased molds, 
cover, and steam steadily for ten hours. 



rr> 







The puddings may be boiled instead of steam- 
ing them. Turn out and serve with hard sauce 
or liquid sauce. The puddings may be kept in 
a cool place for several weeks before using them, 
and reboiled for several hours as required. Left- 
over cold plum pudding is very good if cut in 
slices and fried. If liked, plum puddings may be 
decorated with whipped and sweetened cream 
and sprigs of hoUy. 

Sufficient for twelve to fourteen persons. 




RYZON CHERRY PUDDING 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 
I level cupful (^ pound) sugar. 

3 eggs- 

I cupful (X pint) milk. 

I tablespoonful lemon juice. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls ( J^ pound) flour. 
J4 level teaspoonful salt. 

4 level cupfuls (l quart) stoned cherries. 

Cherky Sauce: 

I level cupful (^ pound) sugar. 
}i cupful (2 ounces) butter. 
I cupful i}^ pint) cream. 
I egg. 
I level cupful (X pint) stoned cherries. 

For Pudding:- — -Cream butter and sugar 
thoroughly together, add eggs well beaten, milk, 
lemon juice, and flour sifted with Ryzon, and 
salt, and a,dd cherries. Pour into a large greased 
mold,^ cover with greased paper and steam 
steadily for two and one-half hours. Turn out 
and serve hot with the sauce. 

For Sauce: — -Melt butter and sugar in a sauce- 
pan, add cream, egg well beaten, cherries cut in 
halves, and make very hot. 

Sufficient for seven to nine persons. 

Prize Recipe 
RYZON LEMON POT PIE 

BY MRS. K. E. JOHNSON, NEW YORK CITY 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I }4 level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
}4 cupful (K pound) butter. 

Cold water. 
iK' level cupfuls (f< pound) sugar. 
3 lemons. 
Cream. 

Sift flour, Ryzon and salt into a bowl; add 
butter and cut into flour with a knife, then rub it 



es 



in with the tips of the fingers and add sufiicient 
cold water to make a stiff paste. 

Put two cupfuls of cold water into a saucepan, 
add sugar and strained juice of lemons, bring to 
boiling point and allow to boU for twenty min- 
utes. Then drop paste from a spoon into this 
boiling liquid and cover, permitting it to boil 
for twenty minutes longer. 

Serve hot or cold with cream, or butter and 
sugar. Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON PLUM DUFF 

2 level cupfuls (>^ pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi cupful {y^ pound) sugar. 

I level cupful {y^ pound) chopped suet. 

I level cupful \yi pound) seeded raisins. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered nutmeg. 

I egg. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

Mix flour, Ryzon, salt and sugar together, and 
sift into a bowl, add suet, raisins, nutmeg, egg 
well beaten and milk. Beat for three minutes, 
pour into a greased mold, cover with greased 
paper and steam steadily for three hours. Turn 
out onto a hot dish, and serve with hot milk or 
any preferred sweet sauce, or hard sauce. 

Sufficient for five to six persons. 

If the pudding is boiled in a pudding cloth 
omit one-fourth cupful of the milk. 

Plum Duff may be put in Ryzon cans and 
boiled over the camp fire. 



RYZON STEAMED SUET PUDDING 

BY MRS. C. N. BOLLERS, MEW YORK CITY 

yi cupful (2 ounces) suet, chopped fine. 
yi cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 

I cupful lyi pound) raisins. 

I level teaspoonful cinnamon. 
yi level teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi cup (yi gill) fruit juice. 

3 slices stale bread. 

1 cupful {yi pound) flour. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi cupful (l gill) milk. 

Put suet, sugar, raisins, cinnamon and nutmeg 
in a bowl. Soak bread in milk and add to other 
ingredients, adding flour, Ryzon and salt after 
sifting together. Mix all thoroughly, turn into 
a well-greased one-pound Ryzon can and steam 
for two hours. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

Sufficient for eight persons. 



RYZON APPLE ROLY POLY 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 

2 level cupfuls {% pound) whole wheat flour. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) chopped suet. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 

I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
Milk or water. 

3 pounds peeled and chopped apples. 
I lemon. 

Mix flour with Ryzon, add suet, salt, one 
tablespoonful of the sugar and enough milk or 
water to make a smooth, soft dough. Turn out 
onto a floured baking board, knead lightly, and 
roll out to one-half inch in thickness. 

Mix apples with grated rind and strained juice 
of lemon, sprinkle these over the pastry, wet 
pastry edges with cold water, roll up and seal 
edges and ends thoroughly. Roll in a pudding 
cloth, scalded and floured, and tied up; plunge 
into, a pan of fast boiling water and boil' steadily 
for three hours. Remove cloth, place the roly 
poly on a hot platter and serve hot with hot milk. 

The roly poly may be folded and laid in a 
greased mold, covered with greased paper and 
steamed for three and one-half hours. 

Other fruits may be used in place of the apples. 
Sufficient for eight to nine persons. 



RYZON RUSSIAN PUDDING 

yi cupful (6 ounces) butter. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 

3 eggs. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I yi level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
Few drops red color. 
I square (i ounce) bitter chocolate. 

4 tablespoonfuls milk. 
Hot milk or sweet sauce. 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs, 
well beaten, then stir in flour, sifted with Ryzon 
and salt; add vanilla extract. Now divide mix- 
ture into three portions. Color one a pretty pink 
with red color, leave one plain, and into the third 
stir chocolate which has been dissolved in milk. 
Now butter a pudding mold, put mixture in by 
spoonfuls, alternating colors as much as possible. 
Cover with butter paper and steam steadily for 
two hours. Turn out and serve with any pre- 
ferred sweet sauce or hot milk. Or serve deco- 
rated with whipped and sweetened cream. Suffi- 
cient for nine persons. 



66 



RYZON PUFFS 

BY MRS. EDWARD ALBES, WASHINGTON, D. C. 

7 level tablespoonfuls preserve (cherries or 

raspberries). 
I egg. 
I cupful (i pint) milk. 

1 level tablespoonful (K ounce) melted 

butter. 
yi cupful {}/, pound) sugar. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

I cupful {% pound) flour. 
Beat yolk of egg well, add sugar and melted 
butter. Beat slightly. Add milk, flour sifted 
with salt and Ryzon. Beat slightly again and 
add well-beaten egg white and more flour if neces- 
sary to make stiff batter. Have ten cups well 
greased and put in each one tablespoonful of 
batter, then one tablespoonful of preserve. Cover 
preserve with another tablespoonful of batter. 
Put cups in steamer and cook twenty-five min- 
utes. Serve immediately with any heavy sauce 
desired. These may also be baked. Sufficient for 
ten persons. 

RYZON STRAWBERRY PUDDING 

6 tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) butter. 
]/i cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 
I egg. 

I teaspoonful strawberry extract. 
I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2^ level cupfuls (9 ounces) flour. 

i/i level teaspoonful salt. 
I quart strawberries. 
Whipped cream. 
Cream butter and sugar thoroughly together, 
add egg well beaten, strawberry extract, milk, 
flour sifted with Ryzon and salt. Beat with a 
wooden spoon for three minutes, turn into a large 
well-greased mold, cover, and steam steadily for 
three hours. Turn out and serve with straw- 
berries crushed, and whipped cream sweetened 
to taste. Other fruits may be used in place of 
strawberries. Sufficient for five persons. 

RYZON BAKED PUDDINGS 
RYZON EXCELLENT PEACH PUDDING 

BY MRS. F. W. FRENCH, SOUTH OIL CITY, PA. 

2 level cupfuls {yi pound) sifted flour. 
I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter. 

X cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
I egg. 

^ cupful (iK gills) milk. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 



Cream butter and sugar, beat in egg until very 
light, add salt, add alternately milk and flour 
into which Ryzon has been sifted. Bake in, 
square pan after placing the halves of peaches 
over the thin batter. Into hollow of peaches 
v/here pits have been removed fill sugar which 
will brown while baking. Serve with whipped 
cream or a cream sauce. Apples or chopped 
dates may be used when peaches are not avail- 
able. Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON COLONIAL PUDDING 

2 eggs, separated. 

6 tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) sugar. 

J^ level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

yi cupful (i ounce) flour. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 
I yi level tablespoonfuls chopped preserved 

ginger. 
I >^ level tablespoonfuls (J^ ounce) powdered 
sugar. 

yi teaspoonful vanilla. 

Beat yolks of eggs with sugar for ten minutes, 
then add flour sifted with salt and one-half tea- 
spoonful of Ryzon. Scald milk, and pour it onto 
flour mixture, stirring all the time. Return to 
saucepan and stir over a slow fire until it forms a 
thick custard, add ginger, and pour into a but- 
tered pudding dish. Beat whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth with remainder of Ryzon, add gradu- 
ally powdered sugar and vanilla extract. Spread 
this meringue on top of custard and place in a 
very moderate oven until light brown. Serve 
cold. Sufficient for six persons. . 

RYZON BAKED APPLE PUDDING 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 

3 level cupfuls (%■ pound) bread crumbs. 
3 eggs. 

I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I level teaspoonful powdered ginger. 

1 level teaspoonful powdered mace. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered cloves. 
yi cupful (3 ounces) sultana raisins. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

3 tablespoonfuls fruit juice or brandy. 

3 level cupfuls {\yi pints) peeled and 
chopped apples. 
Sauce: 

1 cupful {yi pound) butter. 

2 level cupfuls (i pound) sugar. 
2 eggs, separated. 

I tablespoonful brandy or fruit juice. 

For Pudding:— Heat milk and pour it over 
bread crumbs, add eggs well beaten, sugar, salt. 



67 



spices, raisins, Ryzon, fruit juice and apples. 
Mix well, and turn into a greased baking dish. 
Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Serve 
hot with sauce. 

For Sauce: — Cream butter and sugar thor- 
oughly together, add egg yolks, brandy or fruit 
juice and whites of eggs stifHy beaten. Chill 
before serving. Sufficient for six to eight persons. 



RYZON COTTAGE PUDDING 

yi cupful (2 ounces) butter, 

ff cupful (6 ounces) sugar. 

I egg. 

I teaspoonful lemon extract. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

■zyi level cupfuls (9 ounces) flour. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 

Hard Sauce: 

]/i cupful (4 ounces) butter. 
I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 
I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
I teaspoonful hot water. 

For Pudding: — Cream butter and sugar thor- 
oughly, add egg well beaten, lemon extract, milk, 
and flour sifted with Ryzon and salt. Mix and 
beat with a wooden spoon for three minutes, then 
turn into a greased and floured tin or mold, and 
bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. 
Turn out and serve with sauce. 

For Sauce: — Beat butter and sugar to a 
cream, add hot water and extract; mix well, and 
chill before using. 

This pudding may be served with lemon, 
vanilla, or wine sauce, or it may be steamed for 
one and one-half hours and served with straw- 
berry sauce. Sufficient for six persons. 



RYZON COFFEE S0UFFL£ 

3 tablespoonfuls (iK ounces) butter. 

3 level tablespoonfuls (J^ ounce) flour. 
yi cupful {\yi gUls) boiled coffee. 

yi cupful {yi gill) cream. 
yi cupful (4 ounces) sugar. 
% level teaspoonful salt. 

4 eggs, separated. 

yi level teaspoonful (He ounce) Ryzon. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

Sauce: 

2 egg yolks. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) sugar. 

I pinch salt. 
yi cupful (l gill) strong hot coffee. 

I cupful \yi pint) whipped cream. 



For Souffle : — -Melt butter, add flour, and 
blend well; pour on gradually, stirring constantly, 
coffee, cream, sugar and salt. Stir and cook until 
smooth, and add well-beaten egg yolks. Cool, 
fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, Ryzon and 
vanilla, and mix carefully. Turn into a well- 
greased baking dish and bake in a moderately 
hot oven for twenty-five minutes. 

For Sauce: — Mix egg yolks with sugar and 
salt, then add coffee. Cool and fold in whipped 
cream. Sufficient for four persons. 

RYZON SULTANA ROLL 

I level cupful (6 ounces) sultana raisins. 
I level cupful {yi pound) sugar. 

Water. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I level cupful (4 ounces) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
\yi tablespoonfuls (^ ounce) lard. 
I tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter. 
Cream. 

Put raisins and sugar into a small saucepan, 
cover with water and cook slowly until raisins are 
soft and the juice like syrup. Sift flour, Ryzon 
and salt into a bowl, add lard, and rub it in 
with the tips of fingers, and mix to a soft biscuit 
dough with water. Roll to one-fourth inch in 
thickness, spread with raisins, then roll up, 
pressing the ends firmly together. 

Place in a greased pan and pour juice over, add 
butter and one-half cupful of water, and bake in 
a hot oven for twenty minutes or until done. 
Serve hot with cream. Sufficient for five to six 
persons. 

RYZON BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

yi pound Ryzon short or flaky pastry, see 

pages 56, 58. 
6 apples. 

6 level tablespoonfuls (3 ounces) sugar. 
6 cloves. 
I egg. 

Roll out pastry about one-fourth inch in 
thickness, and cut out twelve rounds with a 
cutter. Peel apples thinly and core them with- 
out breaking. Place an apple in one of the 
rounds, and work pastry round the apple until it 
reaches to the middle of it; then fiU center hole 
with sugar and a clove, lay another round of 
pastry on the top, and work it down to meet the 
other round. Fasten join with a little cold 
water; continue in this way until all the apples 
are used. Place dumplings on a greased tin, 
brush over with egg well beaten, and bake for 
thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Dredge 
with sugar and serve hot or cold. 

Sufficient for six dumplings. 



68 




RYZON DUMPLINGS— Master Recipe 
By Mrs. Harriett Cole Emmons, Manager Ryzon Service Staff 



Chapter VII 

Ryzon Savory Dishes 

UITE the most interesting thing to many housewives today is the question of using 
left-overs, and this chapter is planned to be of assistance in offering suggestions. 
Some of our most attractive and nutritious dishes are made from a combination of 
foods remaining from one or more meals. When the family have tired of steaks, 
chops and roasts, a savory made dish will be welcome and also assist in reducing the 
high cost of living. The food value of egg or cheese as meat substitutes is well 
known, and the daily menu may be varied by their use. 




Master Recipe 
RYZON DUMPLINGS 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls (}4 pound) flour. 
I level teaspoonf ul salt. 
I level tablespoonful {}4 ounce) shortening. 
>i cupful (scant yi pint) milk and water. 

Mix flour, Ryzon, and salt together and sift 
them into a bowl, add shortening and cut it in 
with a knife or rub it in with the tips of the fin- 
gers. Add liquid gradually, and drop from a 
spoon on the top of a boiling pot-pie. Cover 



closely and do not remove cover for about twenty 
minutes. Serve immediately. 
Sufficient for ten dumplings. 

RYZON STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING 

1 poijnd round steak. 

2 sheep's kidneys. 

2 level tablespoonfuls {}4 ounce) flour. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 
}4 level teaspoonful pepper. 

1 cupful {yi pint) stock or water. 

2 teaspoonfuls mushroom ketchup. 



69 



Suet Crust: 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls {}^ pound) flour. 
}4 level teaspooriful salt. 
I level cupful (^ pound) chopped suet. 
Cold water or buttermilk. 

For Crust: — Sift flour, Ryzon, and salt into 
a bowl, add suet and rub it well into flour. Then 
make a well in the center of these dry ingredients, 
and stir in enough water or buttermilk to make a 
soft dough. Turn out on floured baking board, 
knead lightly until free from cracks, then roll 
out to about one-fourth inch in thickness and 
line a greased one-and-one-half-pint basin or mold 
with it. Trim ofi round edges and roll out these 
scraps into a round to form a cover. 

For Pudding: — Split kidneys, remove skin and 
inside fat, and cut them into quarters. Cut steak 
into small squares. Mix flour and seasonings to- 
gether on a plate. Dip pieces of meat and kidney 
into this mixture, coating them on all sides. Place 
in prepared mold and pour in stock and ketchup. 
Place round of pastry on top and press the edges 
well together. Cover with a greased paper and 
steam steadily for three hours. Serve hot with 
gravy. 

Chopped mushrooms or onions may also be 
used for flavoring. Sufficient for five persons. 

RYZON MASHED POTATO STUFFING 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) mashed potatoes. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I level cupful (J^ pint) bread crumbs. 

4 tablespoonfuls melted shortening. 

I beaten egg. 

I teaspoonful onion juice. 

Powdered sage to taste. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix all these ingredients together and use as 
a stuffing for any roast fowl. If preferred, celery 
may be substituted for the onion, and the sage 
may be omitted. 

RYZON EGG NOODLES 

BY MRS. BELLE FAILING, SEDALIA, COLO. 

I egg. 

J^ level cupful (2 ounces) flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
}4 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

Break egg into mixing bowl, stir in flour sifted 
with Ryzon and salt, adding more flour if neces- 
sary to make a batter which will not be sticky. 
Stir until smooth. Roll very thin on a well 
floured board, then roll up dough into long roll, 
and slice off thin strips. Place strips in boiling 
meat broth, or water, and boil for ten minutes. 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE 

by MRS. MAUDE JERVIS, BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

I }i pounds lean steak, 
lamb's kidney, 
level teaspoonful salt, 
level teaspoonful pepper, 
level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) flour. 



cupfuls (i pint) milk. 



Cut steak and kidney into small pieces and 
put them into a greased fireproof dish, seasoning 
them with salt and pepper to taste. Sift flour 
with Ryzon and pinch of salt, add eggs well- 
beaten and beat for five minutes, add gradually 
milk and stir well and pour over steak. Bake in 
moderate oven for one and one-half hours and 
serve hot. The remains of rare beef may be sub- 
stituted for the steak, and chopped onion to 
taste, added. 

Prize Recipe 
MELDONE PIE DINNER 

BY MRS. A. S. WESTCOTT, EDGE WATER, N. ]. 

2 pounds stewing lamb. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

yi level teaspoonful pepper. 
12 smaU onions. 

2 large carrots. 

6 medium sized potatoes. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) milk. 

3 level tablespoonfuls {^ ounce) flour. 
For Paste: 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level cupfuls {yi pound) flour. 
2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 
Milk. 

For Pie: — Stew lamb for an hour or until it is 
easily pierced with a fork, add seasonings, onions 
peeled, carrots cut in quarters, potatoes cut in 
halves, and cook until tender. When done place 
aU the meat and vegetables in a deep baking 
dish; add milk to stock in pan, thicken with flour 
moistened with a little water, then pour over meat 
and vegetables. Cover with paste made as 
follows and bake in a hot oven for twenty-five 
minutes. Serve at once.- 

For Paste: — Sift flour into a basin, cut and 
rub butter into flour, add Ryzon and make into a 
softish paste with mUk. Turn out onto a floured 
baking board and roll three-fourths of an inch 
thick. Place on top of pie and bake. Sufficient 
for six to eight persons. 



70 



RYZON PORK PIE 

J^ lb. fresh pork. 

1 level teaspoonful powdered sage. 

2 level teaspoonfuls chopped onion. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 

Wipe meat with a damp cloth and weigh it 
free from skin and bone. Cut it in small pieces, 
and season it with pepper, salt, sage and onion, 
mixing all well together. 

TakeRvzoN Raised Pie Crust, page 58, while hot 
and cut off a quarter of the quantity for the lid 
and decorations of the pie, wrap it up in paper, 
and keep it warm over steam. Roll out the other 
piece into a strip four inches wide and rather 
thin. Keep it even at the edges, and of an equal 
thickness all over. Wet along one side and one 
end with cold water or beaten egg. Bring the 
two ends together so as to form a ring, and make 
them overlap, pressing them well together. 
Then gather one of the sides together so as to 
form a bottom for the pie. Stand it up and make 
it into a good shape with the hands. 

Fill up with meat mixture, pressing it down 
tightly into it. Make it level at the top, with 
just a small rim of pastry standing above it all the 
way round. Then take the piece of pastry that 
has been kept warm, roll it out thin, and cut 
out a round large enough to cover the top of 
pie. Wet round the edge of this with water, lay 
it on top of pie, and press the two edges together. 

Brush the pie all over, top and sides, with 
beaten egg, and make a hole in the top with the 
point of a knife. Pour in enough stock to one- 
half fill the pie. Roll out any trimmings of 
pastry that are left and cut out small leaves and 
decorate pie with them. Brush decorations also 
with egg, and place pie in a greased tin. Bake 
in a moderate oven until pastry is set and brown 
and the meat feels tender. Lift pie from the 
oven, and fill it up with some hot stock that will 
jelly when cold. If the stock is not stiff enough, 
dissolve a little powdered gelatine in it before 
using. Serve cold. 

Sufficient for four persons. 



RYZON POTATO SOUP 

BY MRS. A. D. FRASER, BURLINGTON, WASH. 

2 cupfuls chopped potatoes. 
2 cupfuls (i pint) water. 
4 cupfuls (l quart) sweet milk. 
2 eggs. 

yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I level teaspoonful salt. 

1 level tablespoonful (K ounce) butter. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (yi ounce) flour. 
Pepper. 



Peel and cook potatoes in water until tender. 
Add milk, make a smooth paste of the flour in 
which has been sifted the salt and Ryzon. Add 
butter and pepper. Boil up once and serve with 
croutons. If soup is too thick add more hot milk. 

RYZON SMALL MUTTON PIES 

For six pies make double the quantity of 
Ryzon Raised Pie Crust given on page 58, and 
three-fourths pound lean mutton. 

Any scraps or trimmings of mutton may be 
used for making these little pies, but they must 
not be too fat. Cut them in small pieces, re- 
moving all skin, bone and gristle. Season with 
salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and just moisten 
with water or gravy. 

Put aside one-third of paste to keep warm, and 
divide rest into six equal-sized pieces. Form each 
of these pieces into a smooth ball, and then form 
them into little cases. This may either be done 
with the fingers or round a tumbler. Fill them 
with the meat, and then raise up the sides again 
with the hands. Roll out paste, which has been 
kept warm, and cut oiit rounds to make covers 
for the pies. Wet round edges, lay them over the 
pies with the wetted sides down, and press the 
two edges of paste firmly together. 

Trim round with a pair of scissors, make a 
small hole in top of the pies, and brush them over 
with a little milk or beaten egg. Bake in a 
moderate oven for thirty minutes. When the 
pies are ready to be served they should be filled 
up with a little hot gravy. Sufficient for six pies. 



RYZON SAVORY BREAKFAST DISH 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
lyi pounds cooking apples (5 medium-sized 

apples average i^ pounds). 
I yi pounds potatoes (6 medium-sized 
potatoes average \}4 pounds). 
I level teaspoonful salt. 
yi level teaspoonful pepper. 
% pound bacon. 
■S pork sausages. 

Steam or bake apples and scoop out pulp, 
removing all pips and bits of core. Steam pota- 
toes until tender, mash them, add Ryzon, 
seasonings, and apples, mix well and reheat. 

Cut bacon into small pieces, fry it slowly so 
that the fat may run freely out, and fry in it the 
sausages. 

Stir bacon fat and dice into the hot apple and 
potato, pile the latter in center of well-heated 
platter, arrange the sausages round, and serve. 

Sufficient for four persons. 



RYZON RICE CORN PUDDING 

BY MISS FRANCES R, DICKEY, SAN JUAN, PORTO RICO 




I level cupful (6 ounces) corn meal. 
I level tablespoonful rice. 

1 level tablespoonful (^ ounce) butter. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) milli. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. 

Boil rice in one and one-half cupfuls water for 
ten minutes. Scald half of the corn meal with the 
boiled rice. Add melted butter and well-beaten 
eggs. Then add milk and the remainder of the 
corn meal, together with the salt and Ryzon. Mix 
thoroughly and bake in moderate oven 40 minutes. 

RYZON PLAIN OMELET 

2 tablespoonfuls (l ounce) butter. 

3 eggs. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi level teaspoonful pepper. 
I tablespoonful warm water. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

Put one and one-half tablespoonfuls of the 
butter into an omelet pan, and allow it to melt 
slowly while preparing the eggs. Break eggs 
into a bowl; add seasonings, water and Ryzon. 
Beat eggs just enough to break them or they will 
become watery. Add remainder of butter. Pour 
mixture into the pan, then with a fork break the 
cooked surface in several places quickly, so that • 
the eggs from the top may run to the bottom and 
cook; or loosen the omelet from the sides of pan 
letting the uncooked part run under. This must 
be done in the begiiming so as not to make the 
surface tmeven. 

When the egg is cooked, but yet quite soft on 
the top, tut the. pan to one side, slip a spatula 
under one-half of omelet, and carefully roll the 
egg to the center. Let it cook a moment then 
slide it gently onto ahot dish, doubling it over. 
Garnish with a little parsley and serve at once. 

Sufficient for two persons. 

The water is added to lighten the eggs. Milk 
must never be used, as it would make the omelet 
heavy, and flour must on no account enter into 
its composition. 



RYZON. SAVORY CORN PUDDING 

1 small green pepper. 
yi onion. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 

2 level tablespoonfuls {yi ounce) flour. 

I level teaspoonful salt. 
yi level teaspoonful paprika. 
yi level teaspoonful powdered nutmeg. 
yi level teaspoonful red pepper. 

I cupful {yi pint) milk. 

I cupful {yi pint) canned corn. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

1 egg. 

2 level tablespoonfuls soft bread crumbs. 
yi. cupful (2 ounces) buttered bread crumbs. 

Wash green pepper and cut it in half and re- 
move seeds; then cut in fine strips. Chop onion 
fine and cook it with pepper and butter for five 
minutes, stirring constantly. Add flour, season- 
ings, and milk; bring to boiUng point; then add 
corn, Ryzon, egg well beaten and soft bread 
crumbs. Mix and turn into a greased baking 
dish, cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a 
moderate oven for thirty minutes. Serve hot as 
a vegetiable. Sufficient for four persons. 

RYZON SALMON AND TOMATO 

BY MRS. CORA LEE WALLACE, TOPEKA, KAN. 

I can salmon. 

I cup \yi pint) stewed tomatoes. 

I level tablespoonful melted butter. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi level teaspoonful pepper. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 




Remove all bone and skin and flake salmon. 
Mix in the other ingredients, turn into a baking 
dish, dust top with bread crumbs and bake 
twenty minutes in a moderate oven. One car; 
tomato soup may be used instead of stewed 
tomatoes, if preferred. 

Sufficient for six persons. 



72 



RYZON BEEF LOAF 

BY HARRIET ROMER, ELMIRA, N. Y. 

2 pounds round steak. 

yi pound fresh fat pork. 

2 cupfuls(i pint) toasted bread crumbs. 

1 onion grated. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) milk. 

I level tablespoonful salt. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
yi teaspoonful pepper. 
I egg. 
Put steak and pork through meat grinder 
twice. Mix with crumbs, onion, salt, Ryzon and 
pepper. Add egg slightly beaten. Mold into 
loaf arid put in hot oven for ten minutes. Pour 
over loaf one can condensed tomato soup, one 
cup of water. Put back into oven for two hours. 
Sufficient for eight persons. 

RYZON POTATO PUFF 

BY MRS. ALLAN BANCROFT, MAYWOOD, ILL. 

4 level cupfuls (l quart)hot mashed potatoes 
}i level teaspoonful salt. 
}i level teaspoonful celery salt. 
I level tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
yi cupful (i gill) hot milk. 
I egg. 
I yi level teaspoonf uls Ryzon. 
I level tablespoonful {yi ounce) melted 
butter. 
Beat all ingredients adding egg and Ryzon 
last. Pile in rocky form and bake ten minutes 
or until puffed and brown, 

RYZON CHEESE OMELET 

BY MRS. MARY FREDERICKS, OAK RIDGE, N. J. 

3 eggs well beaten. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) bread crumbs. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) grated cheese. 
I cupful (K pint) milk. 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON APRIBA LOAP 

BY MRS. C. W. SHAW, MOUNTAINVILLE, N. Y. 




Mix well and pour in buttered pudding dish 
and bake like custard. 

One-half cupful flaked fish may be used instead 
of cheese to vary the dish, making a delicious fish 
omeleti 

Sufficient for four persons. 




I level cupful (yi pint) bacon, fried crisp 
and chopped fine. 

I level cupful (yi pint) chopped sour apples. 

I level cupful (yi pint) boiled rice. 

yi level teaspoonful salt. 

yi level teaspoonful paprika. 

I egg, well beaten. 

I cupful (yi pint) milk. 

I level cupful (yi pound) flour. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
Put bacon into a basin, add apples, rice, 
seasonings, egg, milk, and flour sifted with 
Ryzon. Beat all well together, and bake in a 
well-greased bread pan for thirty minutes, or boil 
for one hour in equally well-greased baking 
powder tins. Serve hot, garnished with fried 
apples, or cold, lightly spread with mayonnaise 
dressing. The mixture may be served in ramekins. 
So long as the proportion of flour and Ryzon 
remain constant, that of the other ingredients 
may be varied to suit taste and convenience. 

This dish contains in itself a completely bal- 
anced ration. It is substantial enough for the 
dinner of a. working man, delicate enough for 
the digestion of an invalid, simple enough for 
the plainest cook, and palatable enough to make 
the family call for more. It may be baked, ' 
boiled, or fried ; eaten hot, cold or warmed over. 

RYZON ARTICHOKES A LA REMOULADE 
SHELLS 

by CARINE CARRUTHERS, SEATTLE, WASH. 

I cupful (8 ounces) butter. 

3 cupfuls (12 ounces) pastry flour. 
I level tablespoonful cornstarch. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
Ice water to mix. 
Filling: 

1 can artichoke bottoms. 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

4 tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) melted butter. 
Salt, paprika, minced parsley, curry. 



73 



Mix the ingredients for the shells in order 
given, not_ forgetting the proper number of 
"turns" to insure fiakiness. Bake in rather deep 
pate tins. Remove artichokes from can, drain, 
dip each in lemon juice, then in butter. Broil 
for six_ minutes, arrange in shells, sprinkle with 
seasonings, the parsley last. Place in the oven 
a moment to "blend" the seasonings. 

RYZON MEAT SHORTCAKE 

BY FORECAST MODERN SCHOOL 
OF COOKERY 

Take two thin layers shortcake dough and put 
together with minced cold meat flavored with 
onion, pepper and salt and moistened with gravy 
or brown sauce. 

Brown sauce or gravy can be poured over the 
shortcake if liked or served with it. The short- 
cake can also be made in individual size. Creamed 
codfish can also be used instead of meat for the 
filling. 
To make the shortcake use the following recipe: 
lyi level cupfuls (6 ounces) white flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
3 level tablespoonfuls (i J^ ounces) chilled 

shortening. 
3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
^ cupful (i }4 gills) half milk half water. 
Sift flour, Ryzon and salt together, work in the 
shortening. Wet to a dough with liquid, mix 
well, then put in thin layers in layer-cake tins. 
Be sure the dough comes close to the rims. Bake 
light brown in hot oven and remove carefully one 
layer at a time. Put together with meat filling. 

RYZON FISH TARTS 

by forecast modern school 
of cookery 
Crust: 

2 level cupfuls (X pound) flour. 
2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter or but- 
ter substitute. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) lard. 
6 tablespoonfuls milk or water. 
Sift flour, salt and Ryzon. Chop in shortening; 
Add milk or water. Stir with the blade of a knife. 
Roll out thin. Line ramekins or tart forms. Fill 
with fish mixture. Put on lattice tops. Bake for 
twenty-five minutes or until brown. Serve hot 
or cold. 
Filling: 

I cupful (}4 pint) cold cooked fish. 
yi cupful celery. 
I cupful (yi pint) white sauce. 
yi small onion. 
I small sweet pepper. 



Free fish, before measuring, of all skin and bone, 
and flake. Grate the onion, chop the celery fine, 
also sweet pepper. Mix all with the white sauce. 
Fill the pastery shells. 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON MEAT FOLD-OVERS 

by MRS. L. BOISSE, DOUGLASTON, L. I. 

K pound sausage meat, fine quality. 
I level cupful (4 ounces) chopped cooked 

chicken or ham. 
I level cupful {yi pound) boiled rice (scant) . 
I chopped pimiento (canned red pepper). 
I tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. 

1 egg, separated. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

4 level cupfiils (i pound) flour. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 
yi cupful {lyi gills) water. 

3 tablespoonfuls {lyi ounces) lard. 

3 tablespoonfuls (i jounces) butter. 

Put sausage meat into a hot pan and cook it 
but do not let it get brown and dry; add ham or 
chicken, rice, chopped pimiento, and Worcester- 
shire sauce, take from fire and mix with white of 
egg beaten to a stiff froth. 

Sift flour, salt and Ryzon together, add lard 
and butter, cut and rub them into the flour, and 
make into stifSsh dough with water. Knead 
lightly, roll out one-fourth, of an inch thick and 
cut in pieces size of a saucer. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of meat mixture in the center, wet 
edges, then fold over and press edges together 
with a fork. Brush over with beaten egg yolk, 
lay on greased tins, and bake in a hot oven until 
a nice golden color. Serve hot. 

Sufficient for ten fold-overs. 

RYZON BEEFSTEAK PIE 

BY MISS NORA LONGEWAY, SPRING BANK, 
ALBERTA, CANADA 

2 pounds round steak {yi inch thick). 

1 onion sliced. 

2 level tablespoonfuls {yi ounce) flour. 
2 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 
2 potatoes sliced thin. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Crust: 

1 level cupful {yi pound) flour. 

2 level tablespoonfuls (l ounce) lard. 

1 level tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter. 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
yi teaspoonful salt. 

yi cupful (l gill) milk. 



74 



Cut steak into squares, cover with boiling 
water, add sliced onion and potatoes. Cook until 
tender. Add seasonings and remove meat into 
casserole. Cream butter and flour and add to 
gravy. Pour over meat. 

Mix crust to make a soft dough. Roll out an 
inch thick, place on top of meat and gravy and 
bake in hot oven. 

Sufficient for eight persons. 



Prize Recipe 
RYZON COLD PIGEON PIE 

BY MRS. HAROLD A. BROWN, CALDWELL, N. J. 

6 fat pigeons, cut in halves. 

4 tablespoonfuls (2 ounces) butter. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

}4 level teaspoonful white pepper. 
Juice I lemon. 

2 cupfuls (l pint) good cooking sherry wine. 

1 can mushrooms. 
4 hard-cooked eggs. 

Parsley. 

For Paste: 

2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

3 level cupfuls {i/i pound) flour. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 

}4 cupful {yi pound) lard. 
lyi cupfuls (j< pint) milk. 

Draw, clean and dry pigeons. Melt butter, 
add pigeons and cook them until they are light 
brown, then pack them in a four quart earthen- 
ware or glass baking dish or any tightly covered 
stewing pot, cover with cold water and slowly 
bring to boiling point. Simmer gently five or six 
hours or until birds are tender; remove them 
from the pot and thicken the gravy with a little 
flour until of the consistency of thin stew as 
when cold it jellies into thicker consistency. Add 
salt, pepper and lemon juice to taste and when 
cool add wine. Place birds in the baking dish, 
scattering in mushrooms and adding eggs cut in 
slices, add chopped parsley to taste; cover with 
gravy and pastry made as follows and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. Serve cold next day. 

For Paste: — Sift the flour, salt and Ryzon 
together, then rub in the lard with the tips of the 
fingers and mix in the milk with a knife or a 
spoon. Roll out and cover dish, brush over with 
milk or beaten egg. 

This pie, with a plain salad, makes a substantial 
luncheon or supper in winter holiday season to 



serve guests; the portions depend on the number 
of birds in pie. 

If desired, nine pigeons may be used in pie. 

Sufficient for twelve persons. 

RYZON "WAR-MEAT" LOAF 

BY MRS. CLARA E. WELLS, PATON, IOWA 

2 level cupfuls (i pint) left over baked 

beans. 
2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) corn meal. 
2 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
2 level teaspoonfuls salt. 
J/i level teaspoonful pepper. 
4 cupfuls (i quart) boiling water. 

Stir corn meal and salt into the boiling water. 
When cooked to a mush, add remaining ingredi- 
ents. Pour into a greased bread-pan and bake in 
moderately hot oven until brown. 

This loaf is an appetizing and nutritious meat 
substitute, and is delicious sliced cold and served 
with home-made catsup for a supper. 

Sufficient for one loaf. 



RYZON SAVORY CHEESE PUDDING 

2 level cupfuls {}4 pound) grated cheese. 

I level teaspoonful flour. 
}4 level teaspoonful salt. 
}i level teaspoonful pepper. 

I cupful (}4 pint) boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful (}i ounce) butter. 

2 eggs, separated. 

yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. 

Put cheese into a bowl, add flour, salt, pepper, 
milk, butter, yolks of eggs slightly beaten, whites 
beaten with Ryzon to a stiff froth, and bread 
crumbs. Mix gently, and pour into a greased 
fireproof dish and bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

Sufficient for six persons. 

RYZON HAM CROQUETTES 

BY MRS. M. HOLLERS, NEW YORK CITY 

I cupful ham (4 ounces), chopped fine. 
yi cupful (l gill) mashed potatoes. 
yi level teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

I egg. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

Mix all ingredients together well. Shape and 
roll in bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 
Sufficient for eight croquettes. 



75 




Chapter VIII 

Ryzon Camp Cookery 

" 'tis substantial happiness to eat" 

O doubt the general principles of cooking are the same in the open air as in the kitchen. 
Yet a good cook might find it difficult to emulate the feats of some unpretentious 
woodsman, if he found himself in a dark forest, and he were told to get a hearty meal 
for a few hungry people as quickly as possible. Under such conditions fancy dishes 
are out of place. 

The simplest food is the most appetizing when camping and the best to eat. It 
should be simply prepared. 

When making tea at the camp the old household allowance of "one spoonful for each person and one 
for the pot" will not do; for some occult reason, more of the leaf is required in open air cookery. 
The same is true of coffee made in the woods, which has a different flavor from that made anywhere else. 
Brook trout and potatoes may be rolled in wet paper and cooked in hot ashes. Fried fish are 
appetizing. Cleanse and wash the fish, remove the fins, and rub them well over with salt; roll the 
fish in a mixture of flour, salt and pepper and fry them in plenty of smoking hot fat. 

Ham sandwiches and chicken sandwiches are both appetizing, but when one combines the two the 
result is delicious. Cream one-half cupful of butter, using a wooden spoon, add one cupful each of 
finely chopped cold boiled ham and cold boiled chicken; season to taste with salt and pepper and 
spread the mixture between slices of buttered bread. 

N.B. — See other Camping Recipes; Surprise Muffins, page 19; Omelet, page 72; and Plum Duff 
page 66. Anything which is cooked in frying pan or kettle, can be managed over the camp-fire. 



RYZON CORKSCREW BREAD 

8 level cupfuls (2 pounds) flour. 

4 tablespoonf uls (2 ounces) lard or drippings. 

2 level tablespoonf uls Ryzon. 

2 level teaspoonf uls salt. 

I cupful (>^ pint) milk. 

I cupful (yi pint) water. 

Mix and sift flour, Ryzon and salt into a bowl 
or pan, add lard or drippings, rub them into the 
dry ingredients, add milk and water gradually, 
and mix to a dough that can be handled easily. 
The dough must be rather stiff er than for biscuits 
baked in a pan. 

Have a good bed of coals and the usual two 
forked sticks to hold the cooking utensils. Take 
a green stick an inch or more in diameter, and 
wind the dough around it. Rest the ends on the 
two forked sticks, and turn frequently until 
brown and crisp on all sides. Pull out the stick 
and the bread is ready for eating. 

Sufficient for eight to ten persons. 

Corkscrew bread is one of the camper's deli- 
cacies. 



RYZON CAMP CORN BREAD 

2 level cupfuls {}4 pound) flour. 

2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) corn meal. 

4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level teaspoonful salt. 

1 level teaspoonful sugar. 

2 tablespoonf uls (i ounce) lard or butter. 
2 level tablespoonfuls egg powder. 

6 tablespoonfuls evaporated milk. 
i}4 cupfuls {^/i pint) water. 
Mix flour and corn meal together, add Ryzon, 
salt, sugar, lard or butter, melted, egg powder 
mixed with evaporated milk and water. Mix 
well and pour into a well-greased pan. Bake in 
a moderate oven for forty minutes. If the camp- 
ers have no oven, bake same as Ryzon Camp 
Bread. Sufficient for eight to ten persons. 

RYZON CAMP GRIDDLE CAKES 

4 level cupfuls (i pound) flour. 
4 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 level tablespoonfuls egg powder. 
yi cupful (i gill) evaporated milk. 

lyi cupfuls (J< pint) water. 
Butter and maple syrup. 



Mix flour, Ryzon, salt and egg powder and sift 
into a bowl, add evaporated m3k and water and 
beat to a creamy batter. Do not have the batter 
thin. Fry in a hot frying pan, which has been 
greased with a piece of pork fat. Serve hot with 
butter and maple syrup. Sufficient for twenty 
cakes. 

N. B. — See Master Griddle Cake Recipe on 
page 25. 

RYZON CAMP POT PIE 
Fresh meat or game. 
Potatoes. 
Onions. 

Salt and pepper. 
Sliced bacon or salt pork. 
For Dumplings: 

lyi level cupfuls (6 ounces) flour. 
3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 
I level teaspoonfid salt. 
I level teaspoonful {yi ounce) shortening. 
J^ cupful {\yi gills) water. 
Cut the game or meat into medium-sized 
pieces. Season highly with salt and pepper, add 
strips of bacon, and cover with hot water. After 
it begins to boil, hang kettle higher over fire so 
that it may cook more slowly. See that the 
liquid in the pot does not become more reduced 
than one-third. 

Prepare vegetables., About half an hour before 



the time to serve, make a soft dough of the flour, 
Ryzon, salt, shortening, and water. Roll this 
out, one-half inch thick, and cut into strips. Pour 
off broth into another dish and remove most of 
the meat. Put a layer of meat, sliced potatoes, 
and sliced onion, in the bottom of the kettle, 
partially cover with strips of dough, and repeat, 
until materials are all used. Pour over this the 
hot broth, cover closely, and return to the fire to 
boil for twenty minutes. 

This may be served directly from the kettle. 

N. B. — -The quantities of meat and vegetables 
used will depend solely upon the number to be 
served. Dumpling recipe will serve six people. 

N. B. — See Master Dumpling Recipe, page 69. 

RYZON CAMP BREAD 
2 level cupfids {)/i pound) flour. 
4 level teaspoorifuls Ryzon. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) lard or butter. 
I cupful (K pint) milk or water. 

Mix flour, Ryzon and salt together and sift into 
a bowl, add lard and rub it in lightly with tips of 
fingers, then add water and mix well. Grease a 
frying pan and turn in the batter, and bake very 
slowly over the fire. Be sure to loosen from the 
pan with a thin knife as soon as a crust forms, so 
that it can be turned over and baked on other 
side. Sufficient for four persons. 



Chapter IX 

Ryzon Home-made Candies 




HO can resist home-made candies? Very few indeed, for if well made they are delicious. 
Then, besides being delicious, the home article is cheap as compared with bought 
candy of the same quality, and, above all, it is pure. 

The making of dainty bon-bons is a very attractive pastime to the amateur house- 
keeper and would-be confectioner, and it is quite surprising how many pretty and 
delicious candies can be made at home, and how simple and fascinating the process. 
The value of sugar as a food for both young and old is undisputed, and candy 
is looked upon nowadays as almost a necessity instead of a mere luxury. 

For home-made confectionery, very few tools are necessary, although for the more elaborate kinds 
the investment of a few dollars amply repays the enthusiast. For instance, there are many candies 
which can be made without any special instruments, but for perfect candy boiling a sugar thermometer 
is a great asset, ensuring as it does accuracy and success. The candy thermometer registers over 300° 
F. or more. But for those who are not so ambitious there are many sweets which can be well made 
with a little experience and a careful consultation with the clock. 

Different kinds of sugar are needed for the various candies — ^brown, confectioners' and granulated — ■ 
together with syrup, butter, milk, flavoring extracts, colors, and such toothsome dainties as fruits, 
shelled nuts, and preserved ginger. 

The use of a little Ryzon will be found of immense advantage to the amateur candy maker, as it 
makes the sugar less liable to crystallize while boiling, and gives a more creamy effect to such candies 
as fudge and caramels. 

Tiny crinkled paper cases are pretty for the more elaborate bon-bons, but are not at all essential. 



77 



RYZON OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES 
CANDY 

2 cupfuls (l pint) molasses. 

1 tablespoonftil vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls (i ounce) butter. 
X level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

I teaspoonful vanilla or ginger extract. 

Put molasses, vinegar and butter into a sauce- 
pan. Bring to a boiling point, and boil, stirring 
all the time until the mixture is brittle when 
dropped into cold water, or when it registers 
265° F. by candy thermometer. Stir in Ryzon 
and extract and pour into a buttered tin. When 
nearly cold puU until glossy. Cut into small 
pieces and lay on a buttered plate or wrap in 
waxed paper. Sufficient for one pound of candy. 

RYZON CHERRY PASTE 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

3 level tablespoonfuls (i ounce) powdered 

gelatine. 
lyi cupfuls {2}4 gills) water. 

2 level cupfuls (l pound) sugar. 

I level cupful \}i pound) chopped pre- 
served cherries. 
A few drops red color. 
I lemon. 
Confectioners' sugar. 

Put gelatine, Ryzon, water, sugar, grated rind 
and strained juice of lemon into a saucepan, bring 
slowly to boiling point, then boU gently for fifteen 
minutes, stirring constantly. 

Rinse a deep plate with cold water, put in red 
color and cherries. Strain in mixture and stir. 
Set in a cold place until firm, then cut into neat 
squares, using a knife constantly dipped intohot 
water, and roll in confectioners' sugar. Put into 
boxes lined with waxed paper. 

Sufficient for thirty squares. 

RYZON FRUIT AND NUT FUDGE. 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 level cupfuls (i pound) sugar. 
yi cupful (yi pint) molasses. 

i4 cupful {}i pint) cream. 

yi cupful (K pound) butter. 

yi cupful (2 ounces) grated chocolate. 

2 level tablespoonfuls chopped preserved 

ginger. 
2 level tablespoonfuls stoned and chopped 

dates. 
}4 cupful (2 ounces) chopped walnut meats. 
yi cupful (2 ounces) blanched and chopped 

almonds. 
I teaspoonful lemon extract. 
I teaspoonful orange extract. 



Boil together for seven minutes, sugar, mo- 
lasses, cream and butter, stirring all the time; 
add chocolate and boil seven minutes more, then 
add fruit, Ryzon and nut meats; stir constantly 
until it boils, then cook slowly until it forms a 
soft ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F. by 
candy thermometer, then add extracts. Remove 
from fire, put pan into larger pan of cold water 
and stir until creamy. Pour into buttered tins 
and mark into squares when half cold. Sufficient 
for fifty squares. 

RYZON BETTY CARAMELS 

2 level cupfuls (12 ounces) brown sugar. 
I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

yi cupful (i gill) milk. 
I tablespoonful {yi ounce) butter. 
I teaspoonful coffee extract. 
Pecan nut meats. 

Put into a saucepan, sugar, Ryzon, milk and 
butter, bring to boihng point and boil gently, 
stirring all the time, until the mixture forms a 
soft ball when tested in cold water, or 240° F. 
by candy thermometer. Add coffee extract and 
pour into a dry basin, and beat with a wooden 
spoon until the mixture becomes stiff. 

Then roll into large even-shaped marbles and 
put a pecan nut meat on top of each. Lay on 
waxed paper to become firm. 

These caramels are a pale coffee color. 

Serve in paper cases. 

Sufficient for twenty-five caramels. 

RYZON NUT CANDY 

3 level cupfuls (i>^ pounds) sugar. 

1 cupful (}4 pint) corn syrup. 
yi cupful (i gill) water. 

2 egg whites. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
yi level teaspoonful salt. 
I level cupful(Xpound)choppednutmeats. 
I teaspoonful almond extract. 
I teaspoonful lemon extract. 
I teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

Put into a saucepan, sugar, sjrrup and water 
and boil until the syrup forms a soft ball when 
tried in cold water, or 240° F. by candy ther- 
mometer. 

Add salt and Ryzon to eggs and beat to a stiff 
froth. Take syrup_ from fire and add eggs, a 
tablespoonful at a time, until all has been added, 
beating constantly. When mixture begins to 
thicken, add nuts and extracts, and beat until 
creamy. Pour into a deep buttered pan and 
allow to cool. Cut in cubes when cold. This 
candy is best when it has been allowed to stand 
for three days. Sufficient for thirty cubes. 



78 



RYZON STUFFED DATES 

Stoned dates. 

I egg white. 

I level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped preserved ginger. 
Confectioners' sugar. 

Pink sugar. 

Remove stones from desired number of dates. 

Drop egg white into a basin, add Ryzon, ex- 
tract, ginger and enough sifted confectioners' 
sugar to make a stiff paste. 

Fill dates with mixture and roll in pink sugar. 

Serve in a bon-bon dish. 

To Make Pink Sugar: — Put some gran- 
ulated sugar on a piece of stiff white paper; 
sprinkle over a few drops of red color, and rub 
with a wooden spoon or between the hands until 
evenly distributed. Dry in a moderate heat, 
occasionally separating the grains by rubbing 
them between the fingers, and keep for use in a 
dry bottle or a tin box. Lump sugar may be 
used, but it must be broken up with a roUing- 
pin and sifted. Sufficient for forty dates. 

RYZON CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

2yi level cupfuls (i>^ lbs.) sugar. 

1 level teaspoonful Ryzon. 

2 squares (2 ozs.) chocolate, grated. 
I cupful iyi pint) milk. 

I tablespoonful iyi oz.) butter. 
I teaspoonful vaniUa extract. 

Put sugar, Ryzon, chocolate, milk and butter 
into a saucepan and bring to boiling point; then 
boil, starting from that time, to 240° P., or until 
it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water. 
Remove from the fire, add extract, and beat un- 
til creamy. Pour into buttered tins and mark 
into squares when half cold. 



RYZON ALMOND AND RAISIN BRITTLE 

2 level cupfuls (l pound) sugar. 
I teaspoonful vinegar. 

3 level teaspoonfuls Ryzon. 

I level cupful (2 ounces) seeded raisins. 

I level cupful (yi pound) blanched and 

roasted almonds. 
I teaspoonful almond extract. 
I teaspoonful lemon extract. 

Melt sugar in a deep saucepan, stirring all the 
time, until it is a nice brown color, or 290° F., 
then add vinegar and Ryzon and boil until 300° 
F. by candy thermometer, or until brittle when 
tested in cold water. 

Put raisins and almonds into a weU-buttered 

■ tin. Add extracts to boiled syrup and pour at 

once over the fruit and nuts. Allow to cool and 

cut into squares or strips. Sufficient for ten strips. 



RYZON KISS-ME-QUICKS 

4 tablespoonfuls honey. 
2 level cupfuls (i pound) sugar. 
8 tablespoonfuls water. 
yi level teaspoonful Ryzon. 
I pinch of salt. 
I level cupful (X pound) chopped English 

walnut meats. 
I teaspoonful rose extract. 
I teaspoonful orange extract. 

Put into a saucepan, honey, sugar, water and 
Ryzon and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon 
until sugar is dissolved. Let it boil quickly, 
stirring gently all the time, until it forms a soft 
ball when tried in cold water, or 240° F. by candy 
thermometer. 

TTake pan from fire, stir in salt, nuts, and ex- 
tracts and beat until creamy. Pour into a 
buttered tin, let cool, and cut into neat squares. 

Sufficient for forty squares. 



79 





RYZON WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 


% pint . . . 


I cupful I quart flour ... i pound 


I quart . . . 


. 4 cupfuls I pint butter. . . i pound 


3 teaspoonfuls 


. I tablespoonful 8 arge eggs ... .1 pound 


I gill . . . 


.yi cupful 2 cupfuls milk . . i pound * 


4 gills . . 


. I pint 2 cupfuls sugar . . i pound 


2 pints . . . 


. I quart 2 cupfuls butter . i pound 


4 tablespoonfuls. 


. I wineglassful i cupful crumbs . . . . J< pound 


6o drops . . 


. I teaspoonful i cupful chopped suet. . . .y^, pound 


4 wineglassfuls . 


I cupful I square chocolate I ounce 


4 quarts 


I ga Ion , 4 cupfuls whole wheat flour, i pound 


2 tablespoonfuls sugar i ounce 4K cupfuls graham flour . . . i pound 


4 tablespoonfuls flour . i ounce I cupful chopped nut meats, yi pound 


2 tablespoonfuls butter, i ounce 2 V^ cupfuls corn meal I pound 




BAKING TIME TABLE 


The following table gives approximately the time for baking biscuits, cookies, 


pies, puddings, and cakes. The time will vary according to the state of the oven. 


and the quantity to be cooked. 


Biscuits . 


10 to 20 minutes Cake, Sponge . . . . 35 to 60 minutes 


Cookies . . 


8 to 12 minutes Cake, Loaf . .. 40 to 60 minutes 


Pies . . . • ■ 


30 to 45 minutes Cake, Layer . . .. 15 to 25 minutes 


Pudding, Bredd. 


20 to 45 minutes Cake, Plain . 25 to 40 minutes 


Pudding, Indian 


. 3 to 4 hours Cake, Thin . . 15 to 30 minutes 


Pudding, Plum . 


4 to 6 hours Gingerbread . . 30 to 60 minutes 


Rolls . . . 


. 15 to 20 minutes Bread, White. . . 45 to 60 minutes 


Fritters . . 


3 to 5 minutes Bread, Graham . . 35 to 50 minutes 


Muffins ... 


. 10 to 20 minutes Bread, Nut ... 50 to 60 minutes 


Doughnuts . 


. 3 to 5 minutes Whole Wheat Gems . 25 to 30 minutes 


Cake, Fruit . . 


2 hours Popovers 15 to 35 minutes 


LIST OF UTENSILS AND HELPS FOR THE MODERN KITCHEN 


White kitchen paper 


for covering cakes, etc. i can opener 


I baking board 


2 measuring cups 3 pie tins 


I. rolling pin 


I waffle iron I pair scissors 


I chopping board 


Gem pans i apple corer 


3 wooden .spoons 


Muffin pans i doughnut cutter 


I flour sifter 


I strainer i vegetable brush 


I pastry brush 


Forks and knives Pudding molds 


2 biscuit pans 


I Palette knife i sugar thermometer 


2 bread pans 


I lemon squeezer Saucepans 


6 to 8 cake tins 


I kettle I frying pan and basket 


I sugar sifter 


I steamer i tray 


I double boiler 


I grater 3 cake racks 


6 bowls 


Scales and weights i flour bin 


I Dover egg beater 


Tablespoons Teaspoons 


I wire egg beater 


Cookie cutters i pot rest 



Rogers & Company, Chicago acd New York 




THE TRUTH ABOUT BAKING POWDERS 

/I LL baking powders are chemical compounds and all are made by chemi- 
L\ cal processes. Purity, healthfulness, and reliability in baking powder 
■L A. can be obtained alone by chemical control and analysis. Consequently, 
the skilled chemist alone is competent to produce a perfect one. 

There are three classes of baking powder — the phosphate, the alum, and the 
tartrate or tartaric acid, known as cream of tartar. 

The phosphate type of baking powder is the only kind of which the charac- 
teristic ingredient exists naturally in many of our foods. In fact, phosphates in 
foods are necessary to life. 

Phosphate baking powder has long been recognized as the most desirable type, 
having been in use before either the cream of tartar or alum baking powders 
were known. 

The reason why phosphate baking powders have not been more widely used has 
been due to the difficulty in obtaining the right (phosphate — one which reacts 
properly in baking, is perfect in purity, and retains indefinitely its strength and 
efificiency. 

Ryzon is made with crystallized monosodium phosphate, a new and better 
kind of phosphate and the right one for baking powder, as illustrated on this page. 

The ingredients used in Ryzon are guaranteed pure, clean and wholesome by 
the General Chemical Company, whose facilities for insuring their quality are 
well known to the scientific world. 

Ryzon, The Perfect Baking Powder, is strictly an American pure food product, 
made in the newest and cleanest baking powder plant in America. 




WHERE RYZON, THE PERFECT 

BAKING POWDER 

IS MADE 

These illustrations gi\e some idea 
of one unit of the Ryzon plant, which 
is constructed to conform to the most 
approved modern ideals in food pro- 
duction. 

Due regard is given t(5 protection 
from frre, in a substantial building, 
and also to securing plenty of air, 
light, and sunshine. 

Absolute cleanliness is maintained 
in the building and among the workers, 
who are examined at regular intervals 
by a physician. 




Corner of 
Paching Dept. 



Worrven's 
Service 
Lavatory 



cr :q 


y F^ 




'4' ktf^^fl 


■ppIgM 


1 


K~~^^^H 


HHBm||h^H 


.\ 




^^^^^SSSSti 


. 


■HRtf^^gKfi 


hBa/^m 1 


1 



Corner of 

Girl's 
LuncKeorv 

Rootn 



Chemical 
Laboratory 




Service facilities are fitted up to en- 
courage personal cleanliness. Purity 
and wholesomencss are not only 
watchwords, for Ryzon, but also for 
the building where "The Perfect Bak- 
ing Powder" is produced. 

All the workers, men and women, 
wear white uniforms and caps, and 
the entire interior of the building is 
finished in white enamel. 

The Ryzon plant is open to domes- 
tic science teachers, food officials, and 
others properly interested in a model 
food establishment. 






1-3 

Ryzon 




