r-? 



THE 



COOKB 



F 



r 



BENEDICT 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








s^-'- 


¥ 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






3 1924 090 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924090141437 











THE BLUE RIBBON 






COOK BOOK 






BEING 






A SECOND PUBLICATION OF "ONE 






HUNDRED TESTED RECEIPTS," 






TOGETHER WITH OTHERS 






WHICH HAVE BEEN 






TRIED AND FOUND 






VALUABLE 






BY 






JENNIE C. BENEDICT 






" Tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own Sneers." 

— Shakespeare: Romeo and Juliet. 






LOUISVILLE 

JOHN P. MORTON & COMPANY 

1904 









COPYRIGHT 

Jennie C. Benedict 
1904 



PREFACE. 



In offering to the public the revised edition of my 
Cook Book, I do it at the earnest request of many who 
found my little book of "One Hundred Tested Receipts" 
to be helpful. 

In this edition I have tried to embody the choicest 
and most acceptable of all my recipes. I have not only 
added many to those previously published, but have com- 
piled this book with a view of giving valuable suggestions 
to the young housekeepers, as well as to the most expe- 
rienced ones, combined with the simplest formulae for 
menus for convalescents and menus for luncheons and 
dinners, formal and informal. 

Jennie G. Benedict. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

CHICKEN "WITH ASPARAGUS. 

ANY OE THE SAUCES. 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

CREAMED CALF BRAINS. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

PARISIENNE POTATOES. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG. 



INDEX. 



BEEAD. 

PAGE 

Baking Powder Biscuit 25 

Beaten Biscuit 25 

Buckwheat Cakes 26 

Corn Muffins 25 

Entire Wheat Bread 24 

Griddle Cakes 27 

Luncheon Rolls 27 

Parker House Rolls 24 

Plain Rolls 23 

Potato Rolls 23 

Soft Com Bread (Spoon) 26 

Waffles 26 

SOUPS. 

Bouillon 29 

Brown Soup Stock 28 

Consomme 29 

Com Soup 31 

Cream of Asparagus 31 

Ice Bouillon 30 

Julienne 28 

Oyster Bisque 33 

Potato Soup 32 

Split Pea Soup 32 

St. Germain 30 

Tomato Puree 33 

White Soup 31 

SOUP GABNISHINGS. 

Crackers with Cheese 35 

Croutons 33 

Egg Balls 34 

Noodles 34 

Pate a Choux 34 

Quenelles 35 



6 INDEX. 

FISH. 

PAGE 

Baked Fish and Stuffing 42 

Boiled Fish 43 

Broiled Crabs 41 

Broiled Fish 42 

Broiled Lobster 38 

Broiled Shad Roe 44 

Deviled Crabs 41 

Fish Croquettes 44 

Fish Pudding 43 

Fricasseed Oysters 36 

Fried Oysters 36 

Lobster a la Newburg 40 

Lobster Cutlets 39 

Lobster Timbals 39 

Oysters a la Newburg 37 

Oyster Cocktail 37 

Oyster Rarebit 37 

Oysters en Coquille 36 

Salpicon of Lobster 38 

Soft SheU Crabs 41 

Stuffed Lobster 38 

To Clean a Crab 41 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Lobster or Fish 40 

To Split a Live Lobster 38 

MEATS. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets 47 

Broiled Beefsteak 46 

Broiled Fillet of Beef 45 

Broiled Steak in Oyster Blanket 46 

Hamburg Steak , 46 

Lamb Chops a la Maintenon 47 

Minced Lamb on Toast 47 

Ragout of Veal 48 

Roast Fillet of Beef 45 

Scalloped Lamb 47 

POULTRY AND GAME. 

Broiled Chicken 49 

Broiled Quail 51 

Chicken Gumbo 49 



INDEX. 7 

PAGE 

Good Stuffing for Turkey or Chicken 51 

Mock Terrapin 51 

Roast Quail 51 

Roast Turkey — Chestnut Dressing 50 

VEGETABLES. 

Baked Bananas 58 

Boiled Cucumbers 57 

Broiled Tomatoes 56 

Brussels Sprouts 57 

Croquettes of French Peas 58 

Duchess Potatoes 53 

Egg Plant a la Creole 57 

French Fried Potatoes 54 

Fried Cucumbers 57 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 55 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 55 

Mashed Potatoes 53 

Parisienne Potatoes 55 

Potato Croquettes 54 

Potatoes Boiled 53 

Potatoes en Surprise 54 

Stuffed Egg Plant 58 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 56 

Sweet Potatoes en Brochette 56 

Stuffed Sweet Potatoes 55 

Stuffed Tomatoes 56 

ENTREES. 

Chicken Breast Smothered in Mushrooms 60' 

Chicken Croquettes 59 

Chicken with Asparagus Tips 59 

Eggs a la Turk 63 

Little Pigs in Blanket 62 

Mushroom a 1' Algonquin 63 

Pepper Timbals 63 

Stuffed Chicken Leg 60 

Stuffed Mushrooms 63 

Stuffed Peppers 62 

Supreme of Chicken 59 

Sweetbreads a la Diplomat 61 

Sweetbread Croquettes •' 61 

Sweetbread Cutlets 61 



8 INDEX. 

SAUCES. 

PAGB 

Allemande 65 

Bechamel 65 

Cucumber 67 

Hollandaise 66 

Horseradish 66 

Lobster 67 

Maitre D'Hotel Butter 67 

Mint 67 

Mushroom 66 

Tomato 68 

White or Cream Sauce 65 



SALADS. 

Chicken 69 

Cucumber and Celery 69 

Cucumber, Celery, and Sweetbread 69 

Egg Salad 72 

Frozen Tomato 69 

Green Grape Salad 71 

Lobster 70 

Nut and Celery Salad 69 

Pepper and Grape Fruit 71 

Pineapple and Nut 70 

Salad a la Jardine 72 

Swiss Salad 71 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Cheese 70 

Tomato Jelly 71 

Waldorf 70 

Water Cress and Apples 70 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Cream Dressing 74 

Dressing for Slaw 73 

French Dressing 74 

German Dressing 73 

Mayonnaise No. 1 72 

Mayonnaise No. 2 73 

Potato Mayonnaise 73 



INDEX. 9 

SANDWICHES. 

PAGE 

Cheese and Nut 76 

Chicken Salad 75 

Club 76 

Cucumber 75 

Fig 76 

Lettuce 75 

Nut 75 

Peanut 76 

Plain Ground Chicken 75 

Russian 76 

DESSEKTS 

Baked Caramel Custard and Sauce 82 

Banbury Tarts 83 

Bavarian Cream 81 

Buttermilk Pie 78 

Cabinet Pudding and Sauce 80 

Charlotte Russe 81 

Compote of Figs 83 

English Plum Pudding 78 

Fig Pudding and Sauce 79 

Filling for Cocoanut Pie 77 

Filling for Lemon Pie 77 

Jelly Pie 78 

Meringue 78 

Mincemeat Patties 79 

Pineapple Pudding 81 

Plain Pastry 77 

Preserves in Half Oranges 83 

Rice Pudding 80 

Simple Dessert 83 

Strawberry Sponge 82 

Sugar Pie 78 

CAKES. 

Angel Food 86 

Blackberry Jam 88 

Cookies 89 

Crullers 89 

Devils' Food 87 



10 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Fruit Cake 84 

Ginger Bread 89 

Ginger Snaps 88 

Hickory Nut 86 

Icing 87 

Imperial Cake 85 

Layer 85 

Muffin Cakes 87 

Nurrumburghs 90 

Pecan Cake 84 

Sand Tarts 89 

Sour Milk Ginger Bread 88 

Spice Cake 87 

Sponge 86 

White Lady Cake 85 

FILLINGS FOR CAKES. 

Chocolate 90 

Cream Icing 91 

Ice Cream 91 

Marshmallow and Pineapple 91 

Plain Caramel 90 

Prauline Icing 91 

Sour Cream Filling 90 

ICES. 

Brandy Sauce for Ice Cream 97 

Chocolate Sauce 96 

Freeze a Watermelon 93 

Frozen Apricots 94 

Fruit Cream 96 

Fruit Punch 96 

Fruit Sauce 96 

Hollandaise Punch 95 

Montrose Pudding 95 

Nesselbrode Pudding 92 

Nut Caramel Sauce for Ice Cream 97 

Orange Ice 95 

Pistachio Ice Cream 93 

Plain Vanilla Cream 92 

Sultana Roll 93 

Three of a Kind 94 

Victoria Punch 94 



INDEX. 11 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

PAGE 

Anchovy Eggs 102 

Apple Fritters 99 

Banana Croquettes 106 

Boiled Ham 107 

Brandy Peaches 106 

Butter Scotch 104 

Caramels 103 

Cheese Croquettes 103 

Cheese Ramequines 101 

Chili Concarni 103 

Chocolate 99 

Coffee 98 

Cream Chicken 100 

Cucumber Pickles 104 

Egg Nog 101 

Eggs Baked in Tomatoes 107 

Fruit Salad 101 

Grape Pickles 105 

Green Tomato Pickles 106 

How to make Tea 108 

Ice Cream Candy 102 

Molasses Taffy 102 

Oatmeal with Sliced Bananas 107 

Omelet 100 

Pastry Crullers 98 

Queen Fritters 99 

Raisin Pickles 104 

Russian Tea 108 

Salted Almonds 101 

Spanish Pickles 105 

Swedish Timbals 100 

SICK ROOM COOKERY. 

Apple Soup 112 

Barley Water. . .' 109 

Beef Juice : 114 

Beef Mince " 112 

Beef Tea ". 114 

Beef Tea with Acid 115 



12 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Champagne Whey 118 

Chicken Broth 116 

Cocoa Cordial 113 

Cream Chicken 116 

Cream Soup 117 

Creamed Calf Brains 116 

Creamed Eggs 115 

Creamed Oatmeal Ill 

Creamed Sweetbreads Ill 

Egg Lemonade 116 

Egg Water 109 

Flaxseed Lemonade 112 

Flaxseed Tea 110 

Junket 117 

Koumiss 110 

Meat Cure 114 

Milk and Eggs 117 

Milk Punch 113 

Mutton Broth 116 

Oatmeal Gruel 115 

Orangeade 112 

Panned Oysters Ill 

Peptonized Milk 110 

Peptonized Milk Toast 110 

Peptonized Oysters 113 

Raw Meat Diet Ill 

Rice Water 109 

Rum Punch 117 

Sherry Nog 113 

Sterilized Milk 115 

Toast Water 109 

Wine Whey 117 

MENUS. 

Dainty Menus for Convalescent Patients 119 

Formal Dinner 129 

Informal Dinner 126 

Simple Luncheon 123 



MY WORK AND HOW IT GREW. 



FEELING a desire to prove what a woman can do in 
the business world without capital, and being con- 
fronted with the necessity of falling into rank in the 
marts of trade, I began, eleven years ago, 1893, to ex- 
amine myself for the purpose of ascertaining whether or 
not I possessed a God-given talent; and if so, what it was. 

I very soon developed a very decided taste for cooking 
— although latent up to that time — and now I know that 
my real knowledge of the art (for cooking is an art) was 
very limited. 

My first step was to find a carpenter who was willing 
to build me a kitchen and pantry on time — for on time it 
must be, as I must earn the money with which to pay for 
it. This was soon accomplished. The kitchen and pantry 
were built in a primitive and very inexpensive way, and 
was furnished on the same terms and principles. I cheer- 
fully began, with the help of my Sarah (who, by the 
way, is still with me to-day). I confined my work to mak- 
ing fruit cakes (by my own recipe, found in this book), 
and to my surprise, I had more orders than I could fill. 

In six months I had paid for my kitchen. I then 
decided to make my work general, and sent out my first 
circular soliciting orders, from a cup of chocolate to fur- 
nishing and serving a large reception. 

Then the principals of two of the large schools in the 



14 MY WORK AND HOW IT GREW. 

city, realizing the great advantage of having lunches 
properly prepared for the pupils, asked me to supply lunches 
daily for them — which I did for four years. 

During those years I had worked early and late, giving 
up everything absolutely, and devoting my entire time to 
my art. By this time I had ceiled the walls of my little 
kitchen; put in water and gas, and secured a gas stove, 
made to order for my own special use. At this time gas 
stoves were just coming into use, and in one of the large 
plumbing establishments I taught the use and advantage 
of natural gas for cooking, making enough thereby to have 
natural gas piped into my own home, and gas and water 
both into my own kitchen. 

So it may be seen how rapidly and successfully my 
work developed. 

The Courier-Journal then offered me the Household 
department of that paper — which department I edited for 
some time. I then formed classes on the chafing dish 
and gave lessons in my own kitchen. Many members of 
these classes are the young housekeepers of to-day. 

About this time the Pure Food Exhibition was held in 
Louisville. Mrs. Dearborn, the principal of the Boston 
Cooking School, who was giving demonstrations for them, 
being unable, owing to severe illness, to carry out her con- 
tract with them, I filled out the unexpired time for her. 
This opened the doors and hearts of the Boston Cooking 
School to me, and I entered the school the following winter, 
under the most favorable circumstances, and took a special 
course. There I found my inspiration for higher things, 
and learned each day what an art and science I had selected 
as my life work, and what great possibilities were held 
out to me in it. 



MY WORK AND HOW IT GREW. 15 

Returning, I went to work in earnest, determined to 
strive for the topmost round of the ladder. Then it was, 
with fresh energy and determination, I broadened my 
work and taught cooking — not only at home, but in many 
points in my own State. Upon those classes I shall ever 
look back as among the most delightful and refreshing ex- 
periences of my business career. 

In 1897, at the request of many for my recipes, I de- 
cided to publish my little book of "One Hundred Tested 
Receipts," but not until I had subscriptions enough to pay 
for the complete edition. 

Two years later I was forced to give up my work tem- 
porarily, and in the fall of the same year, as chairman of 
the Lunch Committee, I took charge of and personally 
conducted the lunch room at the Business Woman's Club, 
which position I filled until April, 1900, when, with Miss 
S. E. Kerr, my present business associate, we bought out 
an established catering business on Fourth Street, where 
we now are fully equipped for any order, however large. 

For those who would like to follow the same business, 
and there are many, for rarely a day passes that some one 
does not come in seeking suggestions and advice as to how 
to take up the work as I did — for the benefit of these, I 
will say it is not by any means smooth sailing; that there 
are many snags which might be emphasized. First of all, 
we must make sacrifices at every point, and social duties 
must be wholly abandoned. No business requires more 
tact, patience, or originality, and surely none requires 
closer attention or more constant study. One has to fully 
realize that she must think, plan, and entertain. She 
must be ready to suggest new menus, originate artistic 
table decorations, and carry out unique ideas in forms of 



16 MY WORK AND HOW IT GREW. 

entertainment, being ready with attractive souvenirs, 
keeping abreast and often ahead of the times. 

She can not depend upon other people's books or ideas 
for new dishes or garnishings, but must be able to think 
them out for herself. Never be satisfied with anything 
but the purest and best material and the most skilled 
workmen. Without these two essentials we can not ex- 
pect to make a success of the undertaking. We have found 
that cooking possesses the dignity of an art, of a science, 
and of a philosophy, and in its place in this age it is one of 
the still unseen powers that uplifts and enables our great 
people to progress. 

" It is not the branch of work alone that lifts to a higher sphere, 
For man may choose the humblest part, to find the great is near. 
God gives us all our part to do, and with our life the right 
To leave our path uu beautified, or mighty in His sight." 

Jennie C. Benedict. 



We quote the following interesting article from the 
Boston Cooking School Magazine: 

LOVE FOR WORK. 

Love of the work — contentment, as President Eliot 
puts it — is the key to the solution of the labor problem. 
By enthusiasm we overcome obstacles and reach the final 
goal. People are very likely to gain, at least in a measure, 
that which they most earnestly strive for. Difficulty after 
difficulty is overcome, and the object or end, long sought 
perhaps, is at last attained. The single eye, or desire to 
win, is the secret to all successful achievement. "The 
ideal man is a worker," or, as Carlyle tells us, "the cap- 
tains of the world have been the leaders of industry." 



LOVE FOR WORK. 17 

On the contrary, nothing good can come out of dis- 
satisfaction and discontent. We do best that which we 
are fond of doing, and a work well done always brings to 
the doer its own rich reward of pleasure and satisfaction. 

Perhaps no kind of work is more wont to be irksome 
than that of housekeeping; and one reason for this is that 
it is done so poorly. The atmosphere of contentment is 
wanting. To remedy this, the kitchen in our homes 
should be thoughtfully planned and well equipped with 
the best-known appliances. The accessories and facilities 
for good work should be suitable and convenient. In a 
word, a kit of tools and proper materials are quite essential 
to good workmanship. Whereas too often the kitchen is 
the most ill-constructed and worst neglected part of the 
house, the aim being not so much to simplify processes as 
to cheapen them, not so much to secure the best results 
as to limit the cost of living. We must not forget the fact 
that good work of every class calls for generous outlay of 
both money and labor. 

But, above all else, the zeal of the workman is best con- 
ducive to the highest ends. As a recent writer so well says : 
" Honest work springs from the heart. It can not be done 
without an intrinsic love for it. It is the honor and the 
love that are put into it that glorify the work. 'According 
to a law of worship, a devotee can never rise above the 
God he worships. So a man who devotes himself to art or 
to trade or the professions becomes identified with the 
principles embodied in the sciences and arts. If his work 
is done nobly, he becomes himself noble.' We must get 
rid of the false sentiment that grades different ranks of 
work as more or less respectable. It is cleanly and honest 
doing that gives rank to the task." 



GLOSSARY. 



Saute. — Saute is to fry in as little fat as possible — fry- 
ing is to immerse in hot fat. 

Marinate. — To make salads successfully, the meat or 
celery or nuts should be placed in a dish and covered with 
three parts oil and one part vinegar, and a little salt, which 
is to marinate for several hours. Then any of the dressing 
which is not absorbed should be drained off, the salad 
mixed as desired, and the regular dressing poured over it. 

Brown Stock. — To make brown stock successfully, 
take a four-pound soup bone, remove some of the meat 
from the bone, and then place the bone in the soup kettle 
with three quarts of cold water and let it boil on the back 
of the stove. Take the soup vegetables with a little parsley 
and two cloves and the meat which you have reserved 
from the soup bone, chop all fine and saute until brown. 
Pour into the boiling kettle and let all boil together slowly 
five or six hours. Remove from the fire, strain through a 
fine sieve, let it cool, and skim off the grease. Put away 
in a cool place and use as desired. 

White Stock. — Take the liquor in which chicken or 
veal has been boiled, remove the meat and season, boil for 
fifteen minutes with a stalk of celery, a slice of onion, two 
slices of carrot and a bay leaf, and a little salt and pepper. 
Strain and use as white stock. 



GLOSSARY. 19 

Diluted Egg. — Where egg and crumbs are to be used 
in frying, always dilute one egg with two tablespoonfuls of 
water. This will prevent a hard crust from forming on 
anything that is fried, and will make just a delicate brown. 

Cake. — To obtain the best results in making cake 
where milk and baking powder are to be used, stir into the 
milk the baking powder and add to the cake the last 
thing, for in many cases, where the baking powder is put 
into the flour, some of it is lost, and the cake is not as 
light as it should be. 

Cake. — In plum puddings, fruit cakes, mince meat, 
etc., where spices and liquor are used, I find it more desir- 
able to let the spices stand in the liquor for an hour or 
more before putting into the other ingredients. 

Whipped Cream. — Remember that a pint of cream 
whipped is not a pint of whipped cream. Be careful to 
notice always whether the recipe calls for whipped cream 
or cream whipped. 

Rice. — It is a most satisfactory way to soak rice in cold 
water for an hour or more before using. 

Cooking op Vegetables. — A small scrubbing-brush, 
which may be bought for five cents, and two small pointed 
knives for preparing vegetables, should be found in every 
kitchen. Vegetables should be washed in cold water, and 
cooked until soft in boiling salted water; if cooked in an 
uncovered vessel, their color is better kept. For peas and 
beans add salt to water last half hour of cooking. Time 
for cooking the same vegetable varies according to fresh- 
ness and age, therefore time-tables for cooking serve only 
^as guides. 



20 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

Some flour requires more liquid to moisten than others, 
so your judgment must guide you in bread-making or 
pastry. Winter wheat flour requires less water than 
spring wheat flour. 

In setting bread to rise, be careful to place it where 
it is not too hot or too cool. 

Be careful to save all trimmings of bread and all 
remnants of loaf bread to grind into crumbs for frying. 

To test the temperature for frying, put Snowflake oil 
or lard in a saucepan and place on fire. When it begins 
to smoke, drop a piece of cold light bread in the fat, and 
if the bread browns at once, the fat is hot enough for 
frying. 

The most economical, and by all means the most de- 
sirable "fat" for frying purposes, is Snowflake oil. 

Where a recipe calls for a cup of anything, always use 
the standard measuring cup. 

In boiling chicken or sweetbreads put from one to 
three tablespoons of lemon juice in water. This will 
blanch and make very tender. 

To extract juice from onion, use an old onion; hold 
firmly in your hand and press the stem end firmly on a 
grater, pressing hard and turning just a little. Be careful 
not to grate. 

To remove the odor of onions from the hands, crush 
parsley in the fingers. 

To select a Lobster. — Take in the hand, and if heavy 
in proportion to its size, the lobster is fresh. Straighten 
the tail, and if it springs into place the lobster was alive 



GLOSSARY. 21 

(as it should have been) when put into the pot for boil- 
ing. There is greater shrinkage in lobsters than in any 
other fish. 

To open Lobsters. — Take off large claws, small claws, 
and separate tail from body. Tail meat may sometimes 
be drawn out whole with a fork; more often it is neces- 
sary to cut the thin shell portion (using scissors or a can 
opener) in under part of the tail, then the tail meat may 
always be removed whole. Separate tail meat through 
center, and remove the small intestinal vein which runs 
its entire length; although generally darker, than the 
meat, it is sometimes found of the same color. Hold body 
shell firmly in left hand, and with first two fingers and 
thumb of right hand draw out the body, leaving in shell 
the stomach (known as the lady), which is not edible, and 
also some of the green part, the liver. The liver may be 
removed by shaking the shell. The sides of the body are 
covered with the lungs; these are always discarded. 
Break body through the middle and separate body bones, 
picking out meat that lies between them, which is some 
of the sweetest and tenderest to be found. Separate large 
claws at joints. If shells are thin, with a knife cut off a 
strip down the sharp edge, so that shell may be broken 
apart and meat removed whole. Where shell is thick, it 
must be broken with a mallet or hammer. Small claws 
are used for garnishing. The shell of body, tail, and lower 
part of large claws, if not broken, may be washed, dried, 
and used for serving of lobster meat after it has been pre- 
pared. The portions of lobsters which are not edible are 
lungs, stomach (lady), and intestinal vein. — Boston Cooking 
School Book. 



BREAD. 



POTATO ROLLS. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup potatoes (which have been 

f cup of lard. put through a potato-ricer). 

1 cup of milk. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

J cup of sugar (scant). 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cake of Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast, dissolved in 2 cups 
of lukewarm water. 

Mix thoroughly the lard, potatoes, sugar, and salt; 
add the eggs, then the milk, and then the yeast. Set to 
rise for two hours; make into a soft dough by adding 
about a quart of flour, and set to rise again. Make into 
rolls or loaf, butter the top, and set to rise again; bake in 
a quick oven. 

PLAIN ROLLS. 

1 pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

3 cups of flour for sponge. \ cup of lukewarm water. 

1 cake of Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the butter, sugar, and 
salt. When cold, add the yeast cake dissolved in the 
lukewarm water, then add the flour to make the sponge; 
beat well; let it rise until light. Then add enough flour 
to knead; knead well — very thoroughly — and set to rise. 
When light, cut it down, shape into rolls, let rise again, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

° 



24 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons butter. 1 yeast cake dissolved in J cup 
2 tablespoons sugar. lukewarm water. 

Flour. 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk; when lukewarm, 
add dissolved yeast cake and three cups of flour. Beat 
thoroughly, cover, and let rise until light; cut down, and 
add enough flour to knead (it will take about two and one 
half cups). Let rise again, toss on slightly floured board, 
knead, pat, and roll out to one third inch thickness. Shape 
with biscuit-cutter, first dipped in flour. Dip the handle 
of a case knife in flour, and with it make a crease through 
the middle of each piece; brush over one half of each 
piece with melted butter, fold, and press edges together. 
Place in greased pan, one inch apart, cover, let rise, and 
bake in hot oven twelve to fifteen minutes. As rolls rise 
they will part slightly, and if hastened in rising are apt 
to lose their shape. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 

2 cups scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

J cup sugar, or 1 yeast cake dissolved in J cup 

J cup molasses. lukewarm water. 

4$ cups coarse entire wheat flour. 

Add sweetening and salt to milk; cool, and when luke- 
warm add dissolved yeast cake and flour; beat well, cover, 
and let rise to double its bulk. Again beat, and turn into 
greased bread pans, having pans one half full; let rise, 
and bake. Entire wheat bread should not quite double 
its bulk during last rising. This mixture may be baked 
in Gem pans. 



BREAD. 25 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

2 cups flour. 1 tablespoon lard. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. f cup milk and water in equal 

1 teaspoon salt. parts. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Mix dry ingredients and sift twice. 

Work in butter and lard with tips of fingers; add 
gradually the liquid, mixing with knife to a soft dough. 
It is impossible to determine the exact amount of liquid, 
owing to differences in flour. Toss on a floured board, pat, 
and roll lightly to one half inch in thickness. Shape with 
a biscuit-cutter. Place on buttered pan, and bake in hot 
oven twelve to fifteen minutes. If baked in too slow an 
oven, the gas will escape before it has done its work. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

1 quart of flour. J cup of lard. 

1 cup of cold water. J teaspoonful of salt. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of milk with the water (to 
make them brown nicely). Rub the lard well into the 
flour, and add the milky water until you have a stiff dough. 
Work through a biscuit machine, or beat with an iron 
until the dough is smooth and light. Bake in a moderate 

oven. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

1 pint of meal. \ pint of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 2 eggs. 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder. J teaspoon of salt. 

Beat the eggs separately until very light. .Then add 
to the yelks the meal, baking powder, and salt sifted to- 
gether. Then the lard melted, then the milk, and when 
just ready to pour into the hot buttered rings, add the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff, dry froth. 



26 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

WAFFLES. 

2 cups of flour. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder 

J teaspoonful of salt. (heaping). 

2 eggs, well beaten. 1J tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix the flour, baking powder and salt, and sift; then 
add the well-beaten yelks of two eggs, to which has been 
added the milk, and stir into the dry mixture. Add the 
melted butter, then the whites of the two eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Then have the waffle irons very hot and 
well greased — pouring off any extra grease, leaving only 
enough to keep batter from sticking. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

§ cup fine bread crumbs or meal. J yeast cake. 
2 cups scalded milk. J cup lukewarm, water. 

J teaspoon salt. 1} cups buckwheat flour. 

1 tablespoon molasses. 

Pour milk over crumbs, and soak thirty minutes; add 
salt, yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm water, and buck- 
wheat to make a batter thin enough to pour. Let rise 
over night; in the morning, stir well, add molasses, one 
fourth teaspoon soda dissolved in one fourth cup lukewarm 
water, and cook as griddle-cakes. Save enough batter 
to raise another mixing, instead of using yeast cake; it 
will require one half cup. 

SOFT CORN BREAD (Spoon Bread). 

1J pints of sweet milk. J pint of meal. 

1 egg. Salt. 

1 teaspoonful of quick yeast. 

Bake in oven. 



BREAD. 27 

LUNCHEON ROLLS. 

$ cup scalded milk. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 
J teaspoon salt. Flour. 

J yeast cake dissolved in 2 tablespoons lukewarm water. 

Add sugar and salt to milk; when lukewarm, add dis- 
solved yeast cake and three fourths cup flour. Cover and 
let rise; then add butter, egg well beaten, and enough flour 
to knead. Let rise again, roll to one half inch thickness, 
shape with small biscuit-cutter, place in buttered pan 
close together, let rise again, and bake. 

SOUR MILK QRIDDLE-CAKES. 

2J cups flour. 2 cups sour milk. 

§ teaspoon salt. 1J teaspoons soda. 

1 egg. 

Mix and sift flour, salt and soda; add sour milk, and 
egg well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased hot 
griddle; cook on one side. When puffed, full of bubbles, 
and cooked on edges, turn, and cook other side. Serve 
with butter and maple syrup. 

SWEET MILK Q RIDDLE-CAKES. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup sugar. 
1J tablespoons baking powder. 2 cups milk. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

2 tablespoons melted butter. 



Mix and sift dry ingredients; beat egg, add milk, and 
pour slowly on first mixture. Beat thoroughly, and add 
butter. Cook as Sour Milk Griddle Cakes. 



SOUPS. 



BROWN SOUP STOCK. 

6 lbs. shin of beef. 1 sprig marjoram. 

3 quarts cold water. 2 sprigs parsley. 

J teaspoon peppercorns. Carrot, \ 

6 cloves. Turnip, ( , , . . ,. 

, , , - ~ . y h cup each, cut in dice. 

$ bay leaf. Onion, l 

3 sprigs thyme. Celery, ' 

1 tablespoon salt. 

Wipe beef, and cut the lean meat in inch cubes. 
Brown one third of meat in hot frying-pan in marrow 
from a marrow bone. Put remaining two thirds with bone 
and fat in soup kettle, add water, and let stand for thirty 
minutes. Place on back of range, add browned meat, and 
heat gradually to boiling point. As scum rises it should 
be removed. Cover and cook slowly six hours, keeping 
below boiling point during cooking. Add vegetables and 
seasonings, cook one and one half hours, strain, and cool 
as quickly as possible. •■ 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

To one quart clear brown soup stock add one fourth 
cup each carrot and turnip, cut in thin strips one and one 
half inches long, previously cooked in boiling salted water, 
and two tablespoons each cooked peas and string beans. 
Heat to boiling point. 



soups. 29 

CONSOMME. 

2 lbs. lean beef (from the round). 1 small chicken. 

2 ounces lean ham. 1 small onion. 

2 sprigs parsley. J small carrot. 

2 bay leaves. 2 stalks celery. 

6 cloves. 2 eggs. 

i lemon (juice of same). A little celery salt. 

Wipe and cut the beef into small pieces; cut the chicken 
as for fricasseed chicken. Cover with cold water, and 
stand on the back of the stove where it will slowly heat. 
Simmer gently for four hours. Fry out a slice of bacon, 
add the ham cut in dice, the onion and carrot sliced, saute 
to a delicate brown in two tablespoonfuls of butter; then 
add this to the stock with the remainder of the vegetables 
(cutting the celery in pieces) and a little thyme. Let the 
soup simmer for another hour, strain and stand away to 
cool. When 'cold, carefully remove the fat from the sur- 
face; put in a kettle over the fire, add the whites and 
shells of two eggs beaten lightly, two tablespoons of 
cold water, a little celery salt, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Let it boil for five minutes, take from the fire and skim 
carefully, and strain through a cloth. When ready to 
serve, heat again and season with salt and pepper to taste. 
The soup should be perfectly clear, but amber in color. 

QUICK BOUILLON. 

1 tablespoon of butter. J small onion, sliced. 

1J lbs. of lean chopped beef 1 stalk of celery. 

(round being best). J chicken (bones well broken). 

4 cloves. 2 slices carrot. 

1 bay leaf. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

1J pints cold water. 1 egg (white and shell). 

Melt the butter and add the onion. Cook until the 
onion is thoroughly done, then add the beef (that from 



30 THE BLUE KIBBON COOK BOOK. 

the round being best) and chicken, celery, cloves, carrot, 
bay leaf, parsley, and cold water. Cover the saucepan 
and set on the back of the stove where the water will slowly 
heat. Let it come to a boiling point, strain, and return 
to saucepan and bring to a boil. Beat the white of one 
egg in one half cup of water until thoroughly blended, 
crush the shell and add to the egg and water, and then to 
the boiling bouillon. Boil four minutes, let it stand one 
minute to settle, and strain through cheesecloth wrung 
out of cold water. 

ICE BOUILLON. 

Flavor bouillon with sherry or Maderia wine, and serve 
ice cold. 

ST. GERMAIN. 

1 can peas. Water as much as there is liquor 

J onion. in the can. 

Sprig of parsley. A blade of mace. 

$ teaspoonful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

J teaspoonful of pepper. 3 cupfuls brown stock. 

A bit of bay leaf. 

Drain and mash the peas, add the water, reserving 
one half cup of the peas, putting the remainder into the 
stew pan with the onion, bay leaf, parsley, mace, sugar, 
salt, and pepper; simmer gently for half an hour, mash 
thoroughly, and add the hot brown stock. Let it come to 
the boiling point and rub through a sieve. Thicken with 
one tablespoonful of butter and one heaping tablespoon- 
ful of flour. Cook ten minutes and add the whole peas. — 
Miss Farmer. 



SOTJPS. 31 

CORN SOUP. 

One half gallon of milk put on to boil. Cut one pint of 
green corn close to the ear, and put on with the milk; 
when it comes to a boil, add one pint of green corn pre- 
pared as for pudding. Add butter as you would for 
oyster soup, salt and pepper to taste. Let boil until corn 
tastes done. 

ASPARAGUS. 

1 quart white stock. 1 can asparagus. 

1 pint cream. 1 level tablespoon of butter. 

1 heaping teaspoonful flour. 

Put a little more than a quart of white stock (either 
chicken or veal broth) on the fire with the asparagus, and 
let them boil hard for fifteen minutes, then strain, pressing 
all the substance from the asparagus — reserve the tips of 
asparagus to serve in puree. Thicken the strained stock 
with the butter and flour, and just before serving add the 
cream, salt, and pepper. 

Celery, peas, etc., can be used in the same way. 

WHITE SOUP. 

1 chicken. J teaspoon salt. 

6 blades of mace. Little cayenne pepper. 

8 almonds. Yolks of 4 eggs. 

1 quart of cream or milk. 

Take one fat, old chicken and cut up; rub soup kettle 
with butter, put in chicken with one half teaspoon salt, 
little cayenne pepper, six blades of mace; cover well with 
water, stew slowly until done, skimming well, take breasts 
and wings, chop fine, steep remainder slowly, put three 
biscuits to soak in a cup of new milk, add yelks of four 
hard-boiled eggs, and chop fine eight almonds, pound 



32 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

chicken perfectly smooth, add soaked bread and eggs, 
little at a time, and pound to a smooth paste. Strain liquor 
from remaining chicken, which should be a full quart, pour 
by degrees into paste, stirring until well mixed; have boil- 
ing less than a quart of new milk or cream, add hot by 
degrees to the mixture, after which return the whole to 
the pot and let it simmer only a few minutes. Send to 
the table, and if not rich enough, add a small piece of 
butter. If the soup boils too much it will curdle. It 
should be as thick as rich cream. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

1 cup dried split peas. 3 tablespoons butter. 

2J quarts cold water. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 pint milk. 1$ teaspoons salt. 

J onion. J teaspoon pepper. 

2-inch cube fat salt pork. 

Pick over peas and soak several hours, drain, add cold 
water, pork, and onion. Simmer three or four hours, or 
until soft; rub through a sieve. Add butter and flour 
cooked together, salt and pepper. Dilute with milk, add- 
ing more if necessary. The water in which a ham has 
been cooked may be used; in such case omit salt. 

POTATO SOUP. 

3 potatoes. 1J teaspoons salt. 

1 quart milk. J teaspoon celery salt. 

2 slices onion. J teaspoon pepper. 

3 tablespoons butter. Few grains cayenne. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water; when soft, rub 
through a strainer. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, 
and add milk slowly to potatoes. Melt half the butter, 



soups. 33 

add dry ingredients, stir until well mixed, then stir into 
boiling soup; cook one minute, strain, add remaining 
butter, and sprinkle with parsley. 

OYSTER BISQUE. 

1 quart of oysters. 4 cups of cream. 

1 slice of onion. 2 stalks of celery. 

2 blades of mace. 1 sprig of parsley. 
A bit of bay leaf. J cup of butter. 

$ cup of flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the oysters and the liquor, separate them after 
heating to boiling point, strain liquor through cheese- 
cloth, reheat, and thicken with the butter and flour. Scald 
the milk with the other ingredients mentioned, remove 
seasonings, add the milk to the oyster liquor, and then add 
the oysters. Serve hot with whipped cream on top. 

TOMATO PUREE. 

1 can tomatoes. 1 pint brown stock. 

1 bay leaf. 1 sprig parsley. 

1 stalk of celery. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. Several slices ot onion. 

Put the tomatoes into a saucepan with the brown 
stock, bay leaf, parsley, celery, and sugar; simmer thor- 
oughly; put the onion and butter into the saute pan, and 
when the onion is thoroughly done — but not brown — add 
a tablespoonful of flour, and put all with the tomatoes; 
season with salt and pepper. Pass the whole through a 
fine sieve or strainer — heat again and serve. 

CROUTONS (Duchess Crusts). 

Cut stale bread in one third inch slices and remove 
crusts. Spread thinly with butter. Cut slices in one 



34 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

third inch cubes, put in pan and bake until delicately 
browned, or fry in deep fat. 

NOODLES. 

1 egg. i teaspoon salt. Flour. 

Beat eggs slightly, add salt, and flour enough to make 
very stiff dough; knead, toss on slightly floured board, 
and roll thinly as possible, which may be as thin as paper. 
Cover with towel, and set aside for twenty minutes; then 
cut in fancy shapes, using sharp knife or French vegetable 
cutter; or the thin sheet may be rolled like jelly-roll, cut 
in slices as thinly as possible, and pieces unrolled. Dry, 
and when needed cook twenty minutes in boiling salted 
water; drain, and add to soup. 

Noodles may be served as a vegetable. 

EGG. BALLS. 

Yelks 2 hard-boiled eggs. J teaspoon salt. 

Few grains of cayenne. J teaspoon butter. 

Rub yelks through sieve, add seasonings, and moisten 
with raw egg yelk to make consistency to handle. Shape 
in small balls, roll in flour, and saute in butter. Serve in 
brown soup stock, consomme, or mock turtle soup. 

PATE A CHOUX. 

2\ tablespoons milk. \ teaspoon salt. 

I teaspoon lard. J cup flour, 

i teaspoon butter. 1 egg. 

Heat butter, lard, and milk to boiling point, add flour 
and salt, and stir vigorously. Remove from fire, add egg 



sotjps. 35 

unbeaten, and stir until well mixed. Cool, and drop small 
pieces from tip of teaspoon into deep fat. Fry until brown 
and crisp, and drain on brown paper. 

CRACKERS WITH CHEESE. 

Arrange zephyrettes or saltines in pan. Sprinkle with 
grated cheese and bake until cheese is melted. 

QUENELLES. 

Quenelles are made from any kind of force-meat, shaped 
in small balls or between tablespoons, making an oval, or 
by forcing mixture through pastry bag on buttered paper. 
They are cooked in boiling salted water or stock, and are 
served as garnish to soups or other dishes; when served 
with sauce, they are an entree. 



FISH. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large select oysters, wash and drain and wipe. 
Dip them in the yellow of an egg, diluted with two table- 
spoonfuls of water, then in bread or cracker crumbs; put 
in frying basket and fry in deep hot lard. 

OYSTERS EN COQUILLE. 

2 sets of calf brains. 50 oysters. 

Carefully clean the brains and boil in salt water; scald 
the oysters in their own liquor until the edges curl, and 
then cut in small pieces. Chop the brains and mix with 
the oysters. Take two tablespoonfuls of butter and saute 
a little finely chopped onion in it; add to the brains and 
oysters a little chopped parsley, celery salt, salt and pepper. 
Then add one half cup of cream, two tablespoonfuls of 
stale bread crumbs. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Thirty oysters, one half cup sliced mushrooms, one 
tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful of flour, three gills 
of cream, one gill of mushroom liquor, yelks of two eggs, 
season with salt, pepper, and a little celery salt. Cook 
together butter and flour over hot water, add seasoning, 
cream, and mushroom liquor, and then the egg very slowly, 
or it will curdle. Add oysters and mushrooms, and when 
the oysters are plump and edges curled, serve at once. 



FISH. 37 

OYSTER RAREBIT. 

6 oysters. J lb. of cheese. 

2 eggs. Salt spoon of salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. Salt spoon of mustard. 

Salt spoon of cayenne pepper. 

Clean and remove the muscle from one half pint of 
oysters. Parboil them in a chafing dish in their own 
liquor until the edges curl. Remove to a hot bowl. Put 
one tablespoonful of butter, one half pound of cheese, 
broken in small pieces, one salt spoon each of salt, mus- 
tard, and a few grains of cayenne pepper into the chafing 
dish. While the cheese is melting beat two eggs slightly 
and add to them the oyster liquor. Mix this gradually 
with the melted cheese, add the oysters, and turn out and 
serve over hot toast. 

OYSTERS A LA NEWBURd. 

25 oysters. Salt spoon of salt. 

Heaping tablespoon butter. Yelk of 1 egg. 

i salt spoon of pepper. 4 spoons of milk or cream. 

2 teaspoons of sherry. 

Into a pan which is very hot throw your oysters, first 
having drained all the liquor from them. To twenty-five 
oysters allow a piece of butter the size of a walnut, pepper 
and salt. Stir until your oysters curl. Then quickly add 
the beaten yelk of an egg, to which has been added the 
milk or cream. After these are thoroughly mixed, add 
two teaspoonfuls of sherry; stir well, but do not allow the 
mixture to come to a boil. Serve on squares of toast. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Put six tablespoons of tomato catsup, three tablespoons 
of Tarragon vinegar, three teaspoons of Worcestershire 



38 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

sauce, three drops of tobasco, eight small oysters in each 
glass, and on top of all sprinkle a teaspoonful of very 
finely chopped celery. 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTER. 

Live lobsters may be dressed for broiling at market, or 
may be done at home. Clean lobster and place in a but- 
tered wire broiler. Broil eight minutes on flesh side, turn 
and broil six minutes on shell side. Serve with melted 
butter. Lobsters taste nearly the same when placed in 
dripping pan and baked fifteen minutes in hot oven, and 
are much easier cooked. 

TO SPLIT A LIVE LOBSTER. 

Cross large claws and hold firmly with left hand. With 
sharp-pointed knife, held in right hand, begin at the mouth 
and make a deep incision, and, with a sharp cut, draw 
the knife quickly through body and entire length of tail. 
Open lobster, remove intestinal vein, liver, and stomach, 
and crack claw shells with a mallet. 

SALPICON OF LOBSTER. 

Put one level tablespoon of butter in double boiler. 
Add one tablespoon of flour, then one quarter cup of cream, 
and one quarter cup of white stock; season with salt and 
cayenne, and when it thickens, add one tablespoon of 
chopped lobster, six mushrooms chopped fine, and one 
small truffle chopped fine. Serve in lobster claws or 
shells. 

STUFFED LOBSTER. 

Two pounds of lobster, one and one half cups of cream 
and rich white stock, bit of bay leaf, three tablespoons of 



FISH. 39 

butter, three tablespoons of flour, yelks of two eggs, one 
teaspoon of lemon juice, one teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
Season with salt, cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Scald stock with bay leaf and remove bay leaf. Melt but- 
ter, add flour, then stock and seasonings, then yelks slightly 
beaten, and the lemon juice. When sauce is thick, add 
lobster and fill the shell. Cover with buttered bread 
crumbs and brown. Serve in a nest of water cresses. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Melt two level tablespoonfuls of butter, add two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, pepper 
to taste, one half cup of white stock, and one half cup of 
cream. When smooth add one half teaspoon finely chopped 
parsley, one beaten egg, and enough chopped lobster, 
mushrooms, and truffles to make one pint. Cook a few 
minutes and pour out on platter, and let it get thoroughly 
cold (the colder the better). Shape, dip in bread crumbs, 
then egg, and then crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

LOBSTER TIMBALS. 

2 slices of stale bread. 1 pound halibut or cod. 

1 egg, 1 yelk. 4 tablespoonfuls of rich cream. 
J tablespoon onion chopped fine. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 
§ cup of lobster. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Soak two slices of stale bread in water until soft, squeeze 
until entirely free from water, cook with a teaspoonful 
of butter, beating to the consistency of India rubber, 
then cool; put one pound of halibut or cod through a 
meat chopper, and then pound in a mortar. Add grad- 
ually one third cup of bread, one egg, one yelk, and four 
tablespoonfuls of rich cream; beat well. Butter timbal 



40 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

molds and spread the bread mixture on sides and bottom; 
fill with the following lobster filling: 

Saute one half tablespoonful of onion, chopped very 
fine, in three tablespoonfuls of butter; add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one half cup of rich cream, yelks of two 
eggs, salt and pepper to taste. When this thickens, add 
a tablespoonful of sherry wine and two thirds of a cup of 
chopped lobster; pour out to cool, fill the center of the 
timbals, cover with the fish, and cook in a hot oven in a 
pan of hot water; serve with lobster sauce. This pro- 
portion makes six timbals. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURQ. 

1 pint finely chopped lobster. \ pint cream. 

Yelks of 3 eggs. J glass of sherry. 

J teaspoonful of salt. A little red pepper. 

Put the cream, wine, and beaten yelks together in a 
double boiler and cook, stirring steadily until the sauce 
thickens. Put in the lobster, let it become heated through, 
season and serve. A larger portion of sherry may be used 
if desired. Be very careful to cook this over boiling 
water, as it curdles very easily. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH LOBSTER OR FISH. 

6 large ripe tomatoes. 1 cup of cream. 

1 cup heaping full of lobster or fish. J teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons of butter. Few grains of pepper. 

2 tablespoons of flour. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Melt the butter; add flour, and when thoroughly 
blended add the cream and seasonings. Cook until thick; 
then add the lobster meat or fish which has been cooked 
previously. Without peeling the tomatoes scoop out the 
tops and fill with creamed fish or lobster. Put in hot 



FISH. 41 

oven, and cook until tomatoes are thoroughly done. Then 
serve with allemande, bechamel, or mushroom sauce. 

SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 

Clean crabs, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs, fry in deep fat, and drain. Being 
light, they will rise to top of fat, and should be turned 
while frying. 

TO CLEAN A CRAB. 

Lift and fold back the tapering points which are found 
on each side of the back shell, and remove spongy substance 
that lies under them. Turn crab on its back, and with a 
pointed knife remove the small piece at lower part of shell, 
which terminates in a point: this is called the apron. 

TO BROIL A CRAB (Soft Shell). 

Clean crab, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and broil in butter. Garnish with water cress and 
lemon, and serve with or without tartar sauce. 

TARTAR SAUCE. 

One half cup of mayonnaise dressing (No. 1) ; add one 
teaspoon onion juice, a dessertspoon chopped capers, one 
teaspoon chopped pickle. 

DEVILED CRABS (Hard Shell). 

2 dozen crabs. J teaspoon mustard. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon thyme. 

J teaspoon salt. Ground cloves, allspice, and 

Little black or red pepper. parsley. 

1 level tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon olive oil. 

1 teaspoon of chopped onions. 

Boil two dozen crabs twenty minutes with a little salt, 
then remove meat, reserving the number of empty shells 



42 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

needed. The meat from two dozen crabs will fill nine 
shells. Cut the crab meat fine, mix it well with one raw 
(beaten) egg and the pepper, mustard, cloves, allspice, 
parsley, and thyme; add the olive oil, butter, and chopped 
onion. Let all stand a short time in a bowl until the meat 
is seasoned, stuff the empty shells, place them in a pan 
for baking, cover them with another raw beaten egg, mix 
with fine salted bread crumbs; bake in oven about fifteen 
minutes. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Clean and wipe fish dry as possible, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and place in a well-greased wire broiler. 
Slices of fish should be turned often while broiling. Pom- 
pano, blue fish, and mackerel are split down the back and 
broiled whole, removing tail and head or not, as desired. 
Whole fish should be first broiled on flesh side and then 
turned and broiled on skin side, just long enough to make 
skin brown and crisp. To broil sliced fish, such as salmon, 
halibut, white fish, or trout, cut in two inch slices, and 
should be turned often while broiling. 

BAKED RED SNAPPER. 

Clean a four-pound red snapper, sprinkle the inside 
with salt and pepper, and stuff and sew together or pin 
together. Place in a greased pan, and if you have no fish 
sheet, fold in cheesecloth, bake in hot oven for about 
three quarters of an hour or until thoroughly done, bast- 
ing frequently. Serve with hollandaise sauce or plain 
white sauce. 



FISH. 43 

STUFFING FOR FISH. 

J cup cracker crumbs. | teaspoon salt, 

i cup stale bread crumbs. J tablespoon pepper. 

1 cup melted butter. J cup of hot water. 

Few drops of onion juice. 

Mix ingredients in order given. 

TO COOK FISH IN BOILING WATER. 

Small cod, haddock, or cusk are cooked whole in 
enough boiling water to cover, to which is added salt and 
lemon juice or vinegar. Salt gives flavor; lemon juice 
or vinegar keeps the flesh white. A long fish-kettle con- 
taining a rack on which to place fish is useful but rather 
expensive. In place of fish-kettle, if the fish is not too 
large to be coiled in it, a frying-basket may be used placed 
in any kettle. The fish is cooked when flesh leaves the 
bone, no matter how long the time. 

FISH PUDDING.* 

1 pound boiled fish. J cup of cream. 

1J tablespoons of flour. 1J teaspoons of salt. 

J teaspoonful of pepper. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

A little onion juice. 2 eggs. 

Mash the fish thoroughly, then put through a puree 
sieve and add seasonings. Put butter in the saucepan, 
and when melted add the flour, then the cream, then the 
beaten eggs, stirring until well scalded, not thick. Then 
add the fish, beat well and fill a ring mold with the pud- 
ding, pressing it well against the sides; set the whole in a 
pan of water and put in a moderate oven for thirty min- 
utes. Remove on to a dish, and fill in the center with 



•If a dry fish, such as halibut or haddock, is used, slash body at 
intervals and insert thin slices of fat pork; in other words, lard it. 



44 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

Parisienne potatoes, making a border of the same outside, 
and serve with rich cream sauce, in which parsley is 
chopped. — Century Cook Book. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

1 pint boiled fish. 1 teaspoonful of onion juice. 

J teaspoonful pepper. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 cupful of cream. Yelks of two eggs and a little 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Put the butter into a saucepan; when melted add the 
flour, and when thoroughly mixed add the cream, then 
the seasonings, then the beaten yelks of two eggs, and 
then the fish and the parsley. Spread on a dish to cool; 
make out into croquettes; to the beaten yelk of one egg 
add two tablespoonfuls of water. Dip the croquettes 
first into the stale bread crumbs, then in egg, and then in 
crumbs. Fry in boiling fat. Serve with either bechamel 
or hollandaise sauce. 

BROILED SHAD ROE. 

Wash and dry the roe, then broil them very slowly 
and keep them moistened with butter to prevent the skin 
from breaking. They may also be cooked by sauteing -in 
butter. Cook them brown, cover the top with butter, 
pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. Garnish with lemon and water cress, 
and serve some of the water cress with each portion. Serve 
with maitre de hotel butter. 



MEATS. 



ROAST FILLET. 

The fillet should be plentifully larded and all of the 
sinev/y skin and gristle removed from the top, and most 
of the fat from the under side. Then place in a baking 
pan thin slices of larding or pickled pork, chopped onion, 
carrot, turnip, and celery; then place the fillet on this. 
Pour over it a cupful of brown stock, salt and pepper, 
chopped parsley, bay leaf, and cloves. Cook in a hot oven 
for thirty minutes, basting frequently. When done, drain 
off the gravy and remove grease from the top. Take a 
tablespoonful of butter, add a tablespoonful of flour, cook 
together until they are brown. Add the gravy and a 
little brown stock — a cupful in all — stir until it boils, add 
a canful of mushrooms, chopped, and let it simmer for five 
minutes; then add a little Madeira or sherry; pour round 
the fillet and serve. 

BROILED FILLETS. 

Select small beef tenderloins, two inches thick; lard 
thoroughly; let them lay for two hours in a strong, highly 
seasoned stock with two tablespoonfuls of claret; broil 
for a few minutes over a hot fire; serve with drawn butter 
or'mushroom sauce. 



4:6 THE BLUE BIBBON COOK BOOK. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Select porterhouse steak at least one inch thick. Wipe 
off with wet cloth, rub over with lemon. With some of the 
fat which must be trimmed off, grease wire broiler, and 
place meat in it. Broil over hot fire at first, that surface 
may be well seared, thus preventing escape of juices. 
After this, turn occasionally until well cooked on both 
sides. Remove to hot platter, spread with butter and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

BEEFSTEAK IN OYSTER BLANKET. 

Select a porterhouse steak at least an inch and a half 
thick, remove the bone, wipe off with a wet cloth, rub over 
with lemon. With some of the fat which must be trimmed 
off, grease the wire broiler and place the meat in it; broil 
over a very hot fire at first that the surface may be well 
seared, thus preventing the escape of juices. After this, 
turn occasionally until cooked on both sides; remove to a 
baking pan, cover thoroughly with select oysters, placing 
a little butter here and there all over it. Squeeze the juice 
of half a lemon and place in a hot oven; cook until the 
oysters plump and the edges curl; season with salt and 
pepper. Serve with melted butter, a little lemon juice, 
and chopped parsley. 

HAMBURG STEAKS. 

Chop finely one pound lean raw beef; season highly 
with salt, pepper, and a few drops onion juice or one half 
shallot finely chopped. Shape, cook, and serve as meat 
cakes. A few gratings of nutmeg and one egg slightly 
beaten may be added. 



MEATS. 47 

LAMB CHOPS A LA MAINTENON. 

Wipe six French chops, which should be one and one 
half inches thick. Split meat in half, cutting to the bone. 
Cook two and one half tablespoons of butter and one table- 
spoon of chopped onion five minutes, remove onion, add 
one half cup chopped mushrooms and cook five minutes. 
Add two tablespoons of flour, three tablespoons of brown 
stock, one teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, and season 
with salt and pepper. Spread this mixture between the 
split chops, press the edges well together, and broil eight 
minutes. Serve with melted butter or Spanish sauce. 

MINCED LAMB ON TOAST. 

Remove dry pieces of skin and gristle from remnants 
of cold roast lamb, then chop meat. Heat in well but- 
tered frying-pan, season with salt, pepper, and celery salt, 
and moisten with a little hot water or stock; or, after 
seasoning, dredge well with flour, stir, and add enough 
stock to make thin gravy. Pour over small slices of but- 
tered toast. 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Leave the cutlet whole, or cut it into pieces of uniform 
size and shape. Salt and pepper. Dip in egg and cover 
with bread crumbs or cracker crumbs. Fry in hot lard 
and serve with tomato or cream sauce. 

SCALLOPED LAMB. 

Remove skin and fat from thin slices of cold roast 
lamb and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cover bottom 
of baking dish with butter and cracker crumbs, cover 
crumbs with meat; cover meat with boiled macaroni and 



48 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

add another layer of meat and macaroni; pour over to- 
mato sauce and cover with buttered cracker crumbs. 
Bake in hot oven until crumbs are brown. Cold boiled 
rice may be used in place of the macaroni. 

RAGOUT OF VEAL. 

Reheat two cups cold roast veal, cut in cubes, in one 
and one half cups brown sauce seasoned with one teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, few drops of onion juice, and a few 
grains of cayenne. 



POULTRY AND GAME 



BROILED CHICKEN. 

After chicken has been cleaned thoroughly, split 
through the back and wash and wipe well. Put a piece 
of bacon under each wing and on the broiler, and season 
well' with salt, pepper, and butter. Broil twenty minutes 
over a clear fire, watching carefully and turning broiler so 
that all parts may be equally browned. The flesh side 
must be exposed to the fire the greater part of time, as 
the skin side will brown quickly. Remove to a hot platter, 
spread with soft butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Chickens are so apt to burn while broiling that many prefer 
to partially cook in oven. Place chicken in dripping-pan, 
skin side down, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot over 
with butter, and bake fifteen minutes in hot oven; then 
broil to finish cooking. Put on hot platter and garnish 
with pastry crullers and parsley. 

CHICKEN QUMBO. 

Dress, clean, and cut up a chicken. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and saute in pork fat. Fry 
one half finely chopped onion in fat remaining in frying 
pan. Add four cups sliced okra, sprig of parsley, and one 
fourth red pepper finely chopped, and cook slowly fifteen 
minutes. Add to chicken, with one and one half cups 
tomatoes, three cups boiling water, and one and one half 
teaspoons salt. Cook slowly until chicken is tender, then 
add one cup boiled rice. 



50 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Dress, clean, stuff, and truss a ten-pound turkey. 
Place on its side on rack in a dripping-pan, rub entire sur- 
face with salt, and spread breast, legs, and wings with one 
third cup butter, rubbed until creamy and mixed with 
one fourth cup flour. Dredge bottom of pan with flour. 
Place in a hot oven, and when flour on turkey begins to 
brown, reduce heat, baste with fat in pan, and add two 
cups boiling water. Continue basting every fifteen min- 
utes until turkey is cooked, which will require about three 
hours. For basting, use one half cup of butter melted in 
one half cup boiling water, and after this is used baste with 
fat in pan. During cooking turn turkey frequently, that 
it may brown evenly. If turkey is browning too fast, 
cover with buttered paper to prevent burning. Remove 
string and skewers before serving. Garnish with parsley 
or celery tips. 

For stuffing, use double the quantities given in recipes 
under Roast Chicken. If stuffing is to be served cold, add 
one beaten egg. Turkey is often roasted with chestnut 
stuffing. 

Q RAW. 

Pour off liquid in pan in which turkey has been roasted. 
From liquid skim off six tablespoons fat; return fat to pan 
and brown with six tablespoons flour; pour on gradually 
three cups stock in which giblets, neck, and tips of wings 
have been cooked, or use liquor left in pan. Cook five 
minutes, season with salt and pepper; strain. For giblet 
gravy, add to the above, giblets (heart, liver, and gizzard) 
finely chopped. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 51 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

3 cups French chestnuts. J teaspoon pepper. 

I cup butter. J cup cream. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup cracker crumbs. 

Shell and blanch chestnuts. Cook in boiling salted 
water until soft. Drain and mash, using a potato ricer. 
Add one half the butter, salt, pepper, and cream. Melt 
remaining butter, mix with cracker crumbs, then combine 
mixtures. 

MOCK TERRAPIN. 

1J cups cold cooked chicken or Whites 2 hard-boiled eggs, 

veal cut in dice. chopped. 

1 cup White Sauce I. 3 tablespoons sherry wine. 

Yelks 2 hard-boiled eggs finely J teaspoon salt. 

chopped. Few grains cayenne. 

Add to sauce, chicken, yelks and whites of eggs, salt, 
and cayenne; cook two minutes, and add wine. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Broil same as chicken. Allow eight minutes for cook- 
ing. Serve on toast and garnish with parsley and thin 
slices of lemon. 

ROAST QUAIL. 

Dress, clean, and stuff the same as chicken, adding 
pecans or oysters to dressing. Bind with thin slices of 
bacon and roast from fifteen to twenty minutes and serve 
with gravy. 

GOOD STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Moisten a cupful of bread crumbs with melted butter, 
season highly with salt, pepper, thyme, chopped parsley, 
and onion juice. Or, put in a saucepan a tablespoonful 



52 THE BLUE EIBBON COOK BOOK. 

of butter and fry in it one onion chopped fine, then add 
a cupful of bread which has been soaked in water, all of 
the water having been pressed out thoroughly, one half 
cupful of stock, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoon each of 
pepper and thyme, one half cup of celery cut into very 
small pieces. Stir it until it leaves the sides of the pan, 
then stuff either turkey or chicken. — Gentury Cook Book. 



VEGETABLES. 



BOILED POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare, and drop 
at once in cold water to prevent discoloration; soak one 
half hour in the fall, and one to two hours in winter and 
spring. Cook in boiling salted water until soft, which is 
easily determined by piercing with a skewer. For seven 
potatoes allow one tablespoon salt, and boiling water to 
cover. Drain from water, and keep uncovered in warm 
place until serving time. Avoid sending to table in a 
covered vegetable dish. In boiling large potatoes, it often 
happens that outside is soft, while center is underdone. 
To finish cooking without potatoes breaking apart, add one 
pint cold water, which drives heat to center, thus accom- 
plishing the cooking. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

To five riced potatoes add three tablespoons butter, 
one teaspoon salt, few grains pepper, and one third cup 
hot milk; beat with fork until creamy, reheat, and pile 
lightly in hot dish. 

DUCHESS POTATOES. 

To two cups hot riced potatoes add two tablespoons 
butter, one half teaspoon salt, and yelks of three eggs 
slightly beaten. Shape (using pastry bag and tube) in 



54 THE BLUE EIBBON COOK BOOK. 

form of baskets, pyramids, crowns, leaves, roses, etc. 
Brush over with beaten egg diluted with one teaspoon 
water, and brown in a hot oven. 

POTATOES EN SURPRISE. 

Season one pint of hot mashed potatoes with one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one fourth tea- 
spoonful of celery salt, one fourth teaspoonful of pepper, 
and a few grains of cayenne. Add six drops of onion juice, 
cool slightly, and add the yelk of one egg beaten slightly. 
Shape into balls. Make a hole in the center, fill with 
creamed chicken, oysters, or sweatbreads. Close up, dip 
in crumbs, diluted egg and crumbs, and place in a frying- 
basket and fry in hot fat. Serve with cream or oyster 
sauce. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

2 cups hot riced potatoes. \ teaspoon celery salt. 

2 tablespoons butter. Few grains cayenne. 

i teaspoon salt. Few drops onion juice. 

| teaspoon pepper. Yelk 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley 

Mix ingredients in order given, and beat thoroughly. 
Shape, dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, fry one 
minute in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Croquettes 
are shaped in a variety of forms. The most common way 
is to first form a smooth ball by rolling one rounding 
tablespoon mixture between hands. Then roll on a board 
until of desired length, and flatten ends. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare small potatoes, cut in eighths, length- 
wise, and soak one hour in cold water. Take from water, 

- * 



VEGETABLES. 55 

dry between towels, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown 
paper and sprinkle with salt. Care must be taken that 
fat is not too hot, as potatoes must be cooked as well as 
browned. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

Try out fat salt pork cut in small cubes; remove scraps; 
there should be about one third cup of fat. Add two 
cups cold boiled potatoes finely chopped, one eighth tea- 
spoon pepper, and salt if needed. Mix potatoes thoroughly 
with fat; cook three minutes, stirring constantly; let 
stand to brown underneath. Fold as an omelet and turn 
on hot platter. 

PARISIENNE POTATOES. 

With a French vegetable cutter, cut potato balls out 
of peeled raw potatoes. Drop in cold water for about 
half an hour. Put into boiling salted water and boil about 
fifteen minutes or until tender. Drain off the water and 
let stand on the back of range, covered over, until dry. 
Serve with white sauce and chopped parsley. 

STUFFED SWEET POTATOES. 

Select good, firm sweet potatoes. Wash well and boil 
until tender, remove from fire, cut in half, take out most 
of the potato, leaving the skin firm enough to stuff. Mash 
potato well, season with butter, cream, a little sugar, 
and cinnamon and sherry wine to taste. Fill shells with 
potatoes and put in oven to brown a little. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and pare six medium-sized potatoes. Cook ten 
minutes in boiling salted water. Drain, cut in halves 



56 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

lengthwise, and put in a buttered pan. Make a syrup by 
boiling three minutes One half cup sugar and four table- 
spoons water; add one tablespoon butter. Brush pota- 
toes with syrup and bake fifteen minutes, basting twice 
with remaining syrup. 

SWEET POTATOES EN BROCHETTE. 

Wash and pare potatoes, and cut in one third inch 
slices. Arrange on skewers in groups of three or four, 
parboil six minutes, and drain. Brush over with melted 
butter, sprinkle with brown sugar, and bake in a hot oven 
until well browned. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

To two cups hot riced sweet potatoes add three table- 
spoons butter, one half teaspoon salt, few grains pepper, 
and one beaten egg. Shape in croquettes, dip in crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs again, fry in deep fat, and drain. If 
potatoes are very dry, it will be necessary to add hot milk 
to moisten. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Wipe and cut in halves crosswise, cut off a thin slice 
from rounding part of each half. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in crumbs, place in a well-buttered broiler, 
and broil six to eight minutes. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take fine, large tomatoes, not too ripe. Cut out the 
blossom end and scoop out the inside as clean as you can 
without breaking the skins. Chop fine and add equal parts 
of ground chicken, green corn (uncooked), okra, and a few 
bread crumbs. Season well with salt and pepper and a 



VEGETABLES. 57 

very little onion juice. Fill skins, put a piece of butter 
on top of each, and place in a baking dish (buttered) and 
bake in a good oven. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Pick over, remove wilted leaves, and soak in cold water 
fifteen minutes. Cook in boiling salted water twenty min- 
utes, or until easily pierced with a skewer. Drain, and to 
each pint add one cup white sauce. 

BOILED CUCUMBERS. 

Old cucumbers may be pared, cut in pieces, cooked 
until soft in boiling salted water, drained, mashed, and 
seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare cucumbers and cut lengthwise in one third inch 
slices. Dry between towels, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, fry in deep fat, and 
drain. 

EOQ PLANT A LA CREOLE. 

Boil whole in salt water until done, but not over done. 
Cut in half and scoop out the meat, leaving enough in 
skin to form a shell. Mash the meat of egg plant, salt 
and pepper to taste, add the juice of a small onion, three 
fourths of a pint of toasted bread crumbs. Soften with a 
little milk, and add a can of dry shrimp chopped fine. 
Put back in shells with crumbs sprinkled on the top. 
Place a lump of butter the size of a walnut on each shell 
and slip in oven until a light brown. 



58 THE BLUE BIBBON COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED EQQ PLANT. 

Cook egg plant fifteen minutes in boiling salted water 
to cover. Cut a slice from top, and with a spoon remove 
pulp, taking care not to work too closely to skin. Chop 
pulp, and add one cup soft stale bread crumbs. Melt 
two tablespoons butter, add one half tablespoon finely 
chopped onion, and cook five minutes; or try out three 
slices of bacon, using bacon fat in place of butter. Add 
to chopped pulp and bread, season with salt and pepper, 
and if necessary moisten with a little stock or water; 
cook five minutes, cool slightly, and add one beaten egg. 
Refill egg plant, cover with buttered bread crumbs, and 
bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Peel firm bananas and cut lengthwise; place in a bak- 
ing dish. Slice a lemon very thin, put a layer of banana 
with three slices of lemon, and then a layer of banana and 
three slices of lemon, sprinkled well with sugar. Put in 
the oven to bake. 

CROQUETTES OF FRENCH PEAS. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 pint of cream. Yelk of 1 egg. 

2 cans of peas. Salt, pepper, and celery salt. 

1 teaspoonful onion juice. 

Melt butter and flour together, then add the cream 
and seasonings and the well-beaten yelk of egg, and then 
the peas, which have been put through a puree strainer. 
Pour out on to a platter to cool, roll into croquettes, and 
fry as chicken croquettse. 



ENTREES. 



CHICKEN WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

2 cups very tender chicken breast. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 cup cooked asparagus tips J pint cream. 

(fresh or canned). Yelks of 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Rub the yelks and butter to a paste and add the 
cream. Stir until thoroughly blended. Season with salt 
and pepper; then lay in the asparagus tips and chicken, 
and cook for a few minutes. Delicious patty filling. 

SUPREME OF CHICKEN. 

Breast and wing of one large chicken (raw), four eggs, 
two thirds of cup of thick cream; season with salt, pepper, 
and celery salt. Force chicken through meat grinder. 
Beat eggs separately and add, stirring until mixture is 
smooth. Add cream and seasoning. Butter timbal molds 
and line with chopped mushrooms, then fill with the chick- 
en, and set molds in a pan of boiling water and bake 
about thirty minutes. Serve with bechamel sauce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Boil one chicken and grind the meat with one can 
mushrooms; soak one half pound stale bread in the broth 
and add to meat and mushrooms; add one quarter of a 
pound of butter and four eggs, mix all well together and 
boil until well cooked, season with salt, pepper, celery 
salt, chopped parsley, a little finely chopped onion, and a 



60 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

very little nutmeg. Pour out on a platter; when thor- 
oughly cold, shape, roll in bread crumbs and fry in boiling 
fat. 

STUFFED CHICKEN LEGS. 

Breast of one chicken. 1 cup of cream. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 3 tablespoons butter. 

1 tablespoon onion. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 tablespoon fresh mushrooms. J teaspoon salt. 

1 small truffle. Little pepper. 

1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

Melt butter, add chopped onion, mushrooms, and 
truffle, broil a few minutes. Remove onions, mushrooms, 
and truffle. Add flour, and when thoroughly blended 
add cream, salt, and pepper, cook until thick; then add 
the sherry wine. Add the onions, mushrooms, and truffle 
and the breast of a raw chicken, which has been ground 
and thoroughly mixed with the whites of two eggs; add to 
the other mixture. Spread out on a dish to cool. Re- 
move bone from leg of the chicken (raw); fill with the 
mixture, sew up and broil in butter. Serve hot or cold. 
If served hot, serve with drawn butter. Delicious cold. 

CHICKEN BREAST SMOTHERED IN MUSHROOMS. 

Remove the breast from a chicken which has been 
partially boiled. Then remove the skin from the breast. 
Put in a pan with three tablespoons of butter, cover with 
fresh mushrooms and put in a hot oven. Cook until 
mushrooms are thoroughly done and breast is tender. 
Remove from the oven and add a little flour and cream 
to the butter in which chicken and mushrooms have been 
broiled; season with salt and pepper, and serve. 



ENTBEES. 61 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

2 pairs sweetbreads. A few chopped mushrooms. 

1 level tablespoonful of butter. 1 heaping tablespoon of flour, 
1 cup of cream. salt, pepper, and a little onion 

juice. 

Parboil the sweetbreads, putting a little lemon juice 
in the water. Throw them into cold water. Remove the 
outside skin and membrane. Chop fine and measure. 
Add enough chopped mushrooms to make a pint. Melt 
the butter and add the flour and then the cream. When 
smooth, add the yelk of one egg. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a little onion juice, chopped parsley, and celery salt. 
Then add the sweetbreads and mushrooms. Cook a few 
minutes, turn out to cool, shape, dip in bread crumbs, 
diluted eggs and crumbs, place in a frying-basket and fry 
in hot lard. 

SWEETBREAD A LA DIPLOMAT. 

Saute one half tablespoon of chopped onion in two 
tablespoons of butter. Add two tablespoons of flour, one 
cup of white stock and cream, season with salt and cay- 
enne. Add yelk of one egg. When it thickens, add one 
third cup of mushrooms, chopped fine, two tablespoons of 
chopped truffles, trimmings of the sweetbreads, and a 
little chopped parsley. Then add one tablespoon of sherry 
wine. Let it cool and spread on sweetbreads which have 
been sauted in butter (after parboiling), dip in eggs, bread 
crumbs and eggs, and fry in hot fat. Serve with alle- 
mande sauce. 

SWEETBREAD CUTLETS. 

Boil two pairs of sweetbreads in salt water with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice; drain and cover with cold 



62 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

water. When cold, chop fine and add sufficient chopped 
mushrooms to make one pint in all. Melt one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, add one tablespoonful of flour, salt and 
pepper to taste. When smooth, add slowly a cup of 
cream. When this thickens, add a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and a slight grating of nutmeg, half a teaspoon of 
finely chopped parsley, one beaten egg, and the sweet- 
breads and mushrooms. Pour out on a dish to cool, make 
palm shape, roll in bread crumbs, diluted egg and bread 
crumbs, place in frying basket and fry in hot lard. Serve 
with allemande sauce. 

LITTLE PIQS IN BLANKETS. 

Select large, plump oysters, or firm pieces of sweet- 
bread which have been parboiled. Wrap them in thin 
slices of fat bacon, pinning with a wooden toothpick. 
Broil in a little butter. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Cut off the tops of green peppers and remove the seed, 
parboil them ten minutes, chop the tops fine, one table- 
spoonful of chopped onion and two of fresh chopped mush- 
rooms; saute all in two tablespoonfuls of butter about 
twelve minutes, add one tablespoon of flour, half a cup of 
brown stock, one tablespoon of ground chicken, one half 
tablespoon of ground ham, and one tablespoon of bread 
crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, 
cool, then stuff the peppers, sprinkle with buttered bread 
crumbs and put in the oven to brown; serve with white 
sauce. 



ENTREES. 63 

STUFFED MUSHROOMS. 

Cut off the caps, peel, scrape out, and saute in butter. 
Then chop fine a little onion, and two tablespoons of 
chopped mushrooms, and saute in two tablespoons of but- 
ter. Add one heaping tablespoon of flour, one third of a 
cup of brown stock, and one quarter of a cup of cream. 
Season with salt, cayenne, and chopped parsley, and when 
thick, add a little ground chicken, ground ham, and sweet- 
breads. When cold, put through pastry bag on to mush- 
rooms, cover with buttered bread crumbs, and put in oven 
to brown. Serve on round toast with mushroom sauce. 

PEPPER TIMBALS. 

Butter well a tin timbal mold or cup, line with a large 
red pepper from which has been taken the seeds (and 
which has been parboiled, or use the canned red pepper), 
butter them and line with chopped mushrooms. Drop 
into each one a raw egg, sprinkle over a little salt and pep- 
per, put into a baking pan which is half full of boiling 
water, and put into a hot oven and cook until the egg is 
thoroughly done. Turn out and serve with white sauce. 

MUSHROOMS A L'ALGONQUIN. 

Wash, peel, and remove the stems from large, selected 
mushrooms and then saute in butter; when done, put in 
a buttered pan, placing on each a large oyster; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, place on each a bit of butter, cook 
in a hot oven until the oysters are plump. Serve with 
drawn butter sauce. 

EGGS A LA TURK. 

Brown one chicken liver and one large mushroom to- 
gether in butter one minute. Add a little chopped onion, 



64 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of flour; bea«t until 
smooth. Then add one tablespoon of sherry and enough 
brown stock to make a sauce — about half a cupful — one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a few chopped truffles. 
Place a poached egg, well cooked, on round buttered toast, 
and serve the sauce around it. 



SAUCES. 



ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Melt two level tablespoonfuls of butter, and add two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour; when smooth, pour on 
one hah pint of white stock and one half pint of cream; 
season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and lemon 
juice, and then add the beaten yelk of an egg. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

1J cups white stock. 1 slice of onion. 

1 slice of carrot. 1 bay leaf. 

1 sprig of parsley. \ cup of butter. 
J cup of flour. 1 cup of cream. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cook the stock with the onion, carrot, bay leaf, and 
parsley about fifteen minutes, and then strain. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, then the stock and cream. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoons flour. \ teaspoon salt. 

Few grains pepper. 

Put butter in saucepan, stir until melted and bubbfcag; 
add flour mixed with seasonings, and stir until thoroughly 
blended. Pour on gradually the milk, adding about one 
third at a time, stirring until well mixed, then beating 
until smooth and glossy. If a wire whisk is used, all the 
milk may be added at once; and although more quickly 
made if milk is scalded, it is not necessary. 



66 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

§ cup of butter. J teaspoon of salt. 

Yelks of 4 uncooked eggs. i cup of boiling water. 

1J tablespoonfuls lemon juice. Dash of cayenne. 

Fill a bowl with hot water, pour out the water and 
wipe the bowl dry. Put the butter into it and beat until 
soft and creamy; add the yelks of the eggs, one by one, 
and beat until they are blended with the butter. Add the 
lemon juice, salt, and pepper, and beat again until smooth. 
Then take out the spoon and beat the mixture with an 
egg beater five minutes. Put into a double boiler with 
boiling water. Add to the butter and eggs one third cup 
of boiling water and cook until the same is as thick as may- 
onnaise, beating constantly with the egg beater. Serve 
either hot or cold. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Two tablespoons of butter, two and one half table- 
spoons of flour, one cup of brown stock, one half slice of 
onion, one quarter can of mushrooms, cut up. Cook onion 
in butter until slightly browned, and remove onion. Add 
flour and seasonings, and then add stock gradually, and 
when perfectly smooth add mushrooms. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE: 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish with one 
tablespoonful of vinegar and one fourth teaspoonful each 
of salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly and stir in four table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream, stiff. Serve with roast beef 
or oysters. 



SAUCES. 67 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

1 large cucumber. J cup whipped cream. 
4 drops of onion juice. \ teaspoon salt. 

i teaspoon of parsley. Few grains pepper. 

J teaspoon Tarragon vinegar. 

Chop fine one large cucumber, add salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste, add onion juice, parsley chopped fine, 
vinegar, and whipped cream. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

2 tablespoon fu Is of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
1 pint of cream. Yelks of 2 eggs. 

Season with salt, pepper, and a little sherry wine. 
Melt the butter, then add the flour, then the cream, then 
the seasoning, and then the well-beaten yelks, and when 
thick add a heaping cup of lobster, chopped fine. 

MINT SAUCE. 

1 cup finely chopped mint leaves. 1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 
J cup vinegar. 

Add sugar to vinegar; when dissolved, pour over mint 
and let stand thirty minutes on back of range to infuse. 
If vinegar is very strong dilute with water. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

J cup butter. \ teaspoon pepper. 

J teaspoon salt. i tablespoon finely chopped 

J tablespoon lemon juice. parsley. 

Put butter in a bowl, and with small wooden spoon 
work until creamy. Add salt, pepper, and parsley, then 
lemon juice very slowly. 



68 THE BLUB RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

TOMATO SAUCE I (Without Stock). 

$ can tomatoes, or 3 tablespoons butter. 

If cups fresh stewed tomatoes. 2§ tablespoons flour. 

1 slice onion. 1 teaspoon salt. 

J teaspoon pepper. 

Cook onion with tomatoes fifteen minutes, rub through 
a strainer, and add to butter and flour (to which season- 
ings have been added) cooked together. If tomatoes are 
very acid add a few grains of soda. 

TOMATO SAUCE II. 

$ can tomatoes. J teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 4 tablespoons butter. 
8 peppercorns. 4 tablespoons flour. 
Bit of bay leaf. 1 cup brown stock. 

Cook tomatoes twenty minutes with sugar, pepper- 
corns, bay leaf, and salt; rub through a strainer and add 
stock. Brown the butter, add flour, and when well 
browned gradually add hot liquid. 



SALADS. 



CUCUMBER, CELERY, AND SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Equal proportions of cucumber, celery, and sweet- 
breads, which have been parboiled. Cut into small pieces 
and serve with mayonnaise or French dressing. Garnish 
with water cress or serve in head lettuce. 

CUCUMBER AND CELERY SALAD. 

Equal proportions of cucumber and celery. Cut cu- 
cumber and celery into small pieces and serve with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD. 

Take one quart can of tomatoes (or the same propor- 
tion of fresh tomatoes), drain off all the liquor, pour over 
them mayonnaise and a little chopped celery, put in a 
freezer and freeze. Serve in nasturtium leaves. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take equal proportions of cold chicken and celery, 
cut not too small. To a quart of chicken and celery pour 
over one half cup of French dressing and let it marinate 
half or whole morning, and when ready to serve mix with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

NUT AND CELERY SALAD. 

Mix equal parts of pecans, almonds, English walnuts, 
and celery. Marinate in oil, and serve with a French 
dressing with a border of curly celery. 



70 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CHEESE. 

Take equal proportions of Neufchatel and Roquefort 
cheese and blend well together; mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. Remove centers out of tomatoes, fill with the 
cheese and serve on lettuce leaf. 

PINEAPPLE AND NUT SALAD. 

1 can pineapple. 1 cup English walnuts. 

Remove the juice from the pineapple, cut into pieces 
about the size of an English walnut; add the walnuts and 
serve with whipped cream or mayonnaise. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Mix equal quantities of finely cut apple and celery, and 
moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with curled 
celery and canned pimentoes cut in strips or fancy shapes. 
An attractive way of serving this salad is to remove tops 
from red or green apples, scoop out inside pulp, leaving 
just enough adhering to skin to keep apples in shape. 
Refill shells thus made with the salad, replace tops, and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

1 cup of boiled lobster. J cup chopped celery. 

Mix together and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve in lobster shell, red apples, or lettuce leaf. 

WATER CRESS SALAD. 

Freshen the water cress in very cold water until it be- 
comes crisp. Dry thoroughly without bruising. Mix 
with it two sour apples sliced thin and French dressing. 



SALADS. 71 

PEPPER AND GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Cut slices from stem ends of six green peppers, and 
remove seeds. Refill with grape fruit pulp, finely cut 
celery, and English walnut meats broken in pieces, allow- 
ing twice as much grape fruit as celery, and two nut meats 
to each pepper. Arrange on chicory or lettuce leaves 
and serve. 

SWISS SALAD. 

Mix one cup cold cooked chicken, cut in cubes, one 
cucumber pared and cut in cubes, one cup chopped En- 
glish walnut meats, and one cup French peas. Marinate 
with French dressing, arrange on serving dish, and gar- 
nish with mayonnaise dressing. 

GREEN GRAPE SALAD. 

Select firm, acid grapes; serve in a head of lettuce with 
the cooked mayonnaise, only with a little more cream 
added to it, or with a cream dressing, for which mix half a 
teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of mustard, one 
fourth teaspoonful of sugar, one egg beaten slightly, two 
tablespoonfuls of oil, three fourths cup of rich cream, and 
a scant quarter of a cup of vinegar. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Cook one half can of tomatoes for ten minutes, with a 
pinch of soda if very acid. Add half a teaspoonful of salt 
and rub through a sieve or strainer. Pour over it one 
fourth box of gelatine which has been soaked in one fourth 
cup of cold water; mold, and when congealed, serve on 
lettuce with mayonnaise dressing. 



72 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

SALAD A LA JARDINE. 

To one pint of ground, boiled chicken, add equal parts 
of asparagus tips, peas, chopped string beans, chopped 
celery, and a few pecan kernels. Mix carefully and pour 
over it mayonnaise. 

EQQ SALAD. 

Boil the eggs twenty minutes. Peel off the shells and 
cut the eggs in half lengthwise. Remove the yelks, put 
in a bowl and cream. Take two eggs well beaten, half a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, three tablespoonfuls of rich, 
sweet cream, one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and one and a 
half tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Boil all until very thick 
and mix with the cooked yelks. Fill the whites, and 
when cold serve with mayonnaise. 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 



MAYONNAISE No. 1. 

Yelk of 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 teaspoonful of mustard. 

Salt and pepper to taste. Yelk of 1 raw egg, well beaten. 

J of small bottle olive oil. Vinegar to taste. 

White of 1 egg beaten stiff and dry. 

Rub the yelk of hard-boiled egg through a fine sieve 
until smooth; add to that the mustard, salt, pepper, raw 
yelk, well beaten. Then add the oil, and next the vinegar 
slowly, lastly the raw white of egg. 



SALADS. 73 

MAYONNAISE No. 2 (Cooked). 

Yelks of two eggs, well beaten, four tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar. Boil until thick, and stir in one heaping table- 
spoonful of butter or olive oil. When cold, add half a 
teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of dry mustard and 
a little pepper, and a cup of whipped cream. 

POTATO MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

1 small baked potato. 1 teaspoon powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoon mustard. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

1 teaspoon salt. | cup olive oil or Snowflake oil. 

Smooth and mash the inside of a potato, add mustard, 
salt, and powdered sugar; add one tablespoon of vinegar, 
and rub mixture through a fine sieve. Add oil and re- 
maining vinegar. One would hardly realize eggs were not 
used in the mixture. 

DRESSING FOR COLE SLAW. 

6 yelks of eggs. 2 tablespoons of fine sugar. 

Tablespoon butter. 1 cup of vinegar. 

Teaspoon of made mustard. \ teaspoon of salt. 

Beat the eggs well. Cook in a double boiler with vin- 
egar, sugar, butter, salt, and mustard, beating all the 
time. When nearly done, add the juice of one lemon.. 
When thick remove from the fire and when cold whip in 
one half cupful of cream. Mix well, and put in a cold 
place until ready to serve. 

GERMAN DRESSING. 

Beat one half cup of heavy cream, just beginning to 
sour, with one egg; beat until stiff. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and beat again. Fine for fruit salads. 



74 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

\ teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons of vinegar. 

\ teaspoon pepper. 4 tablespoons of oil. 

Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. 

Note. — 2 drops of creme de menthe added to French dressing 
makes a delicious dressing; and very crisp bacon added to French 
dressing makes a delicious dressing for lettuce. 

SALAD CREAM. 

Mix one half tablespoonful of mustard and salt (each) 
and one tablespoonful of sugar with one egg, slightly 
beaten. Pour on this three fourths cup of cream and one 
fourth cup of scalded vinegar with two and a half table- 
spoonfuls melted butter. Cook in a double boiler until it 
thickens slightly. Strain and cool. Serve on cold slaw. 



SANDWICHES. 



In preparing sandwiches cut the slices of bread as 
thin as possible and remove the crusts. If butter is used, 
cream the butter and spread the bread before cutting 
from the loaf. 

LETTUCE SANDWICH. 

Spread bread with mayonnaise dressing and then 
place sliced lettuce between the slices. 

CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICH. 

Cut up equal proportions of chicken and celery fine. 
Mix with mayonnaise dressing and spread between plain 
bread. 

PLAIN GROUND CHICKEN. 

Grind chicken fine, moisten thoroughly with cream, 
season with salt, pepper, and celery salt and spread between 
buttered bread. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Spread bread with mayonnaise dressing, and put 
chopped pecans between the slices. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Chop the cucumber, mix with tartar sauce and spread 
between bread. 



76 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICH. 

Spread Graham bread with mayonnaise dressing. 
Take equal parts of Neuf chatel cheese and chopped olives 
and mix well together and spread between slices of bread. 

PEANUT SANDWICH. 

Spread bread (white or Graham bread) with French 
mustard. Pound roasted peanuts to a paste and spread 
between the slices. 

CHEESE AND NUT. 

Spread bread with mayonnaise dressing; mix Neuf chatel 
cheese and nuts well together and spread between bread. 

FIG SANDWICH. 

Chop one dozen figs very fine, add hot water to moisten 
to a paste, cook in a double boiler two hours, flavor to 
taste with lemon. Put between thin slices of bread. 
Sprinkle with chopped nuts. 

CLUB SANDWICH. 

Spread toasted white bread with mayonnaise dressing, 
then a lettuce leaf, a slice of crisp bacon, and a small 
slice of cold chicken between the slices of toast. 



DESSERTS. 



PLAIN PASTRY. 

1§ cups flour. i cup of butter. 

1 cup lard. J teaspoonful salt. 

A little ice water. 

Wash the butter, squeeze out all the milk and water, 
flatten it out. Add the salt to the flour and cut in the 
lard with a knife. Moisten it with the cold water. Toss 
on the board, dredged sparingly with flour, pat and roll 
out. Fold in the butter, roll out, and repeat folding and 
rolling several times. Cover with cheesecloth and set 
away in a cool place, though never in direct contact with 
ice. Roll thin and bake in a moderate oven. 

FILLING FOR LEMON PIE. 

2 lemons. 3 tablespoons flour. 
2 cups of sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 
2 cups of hot water. 4 eggs. 

Whites for top of pies. Boil until thick, bake crust 
and fill. Filling makes two pies. 

COCOANUT FILLING. 

One half of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, mixed 
well. Add the yelks of five eggs well beaten, one cup of 
milk, one tablespoon of flour, and one cup of grated cocoa- 
nut. Flavor with vanilla and cook until thick. When 
cold, fill (cooked) pie crust and cover with meringue and 
put in the oven to brown. 



78 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

BUTTERMILK PIES. 

1 pint of buttermilk. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

2 teacups of sugar. 3 tablespoons of flour. 
1 tablespoon butter. 5 to 7 eggs. 

Use whites for the meringue. Boil this to a custard 
and fill the pie crusts and bake. 

MERINGUE. 

Add sugar enough to the whites to make thick and 

stiff; spread over pies and put in oven to brown a few 

minutes. 

SUGAR PIES. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one pint of brown sugar, 
one tablespoon of butter, one cup of cream. Boil all 
together and when thick fill the pastry and bake. 

JELLY PIES. 

4 eggs beaten separately. 1 glass of jelly (plum jelly best), 

li cups of sugar. 1 tablespoon of flour. 

1 tablespoon of butter. 

Mix the butter and sugar together, then flour, then the 
jelly, then the eggs. Beat well and fill pastry and bake. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

J pound stale bread crumbs. } cup wine and brandy mixed. 

J pound sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

J nutmeg, grated. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

J teaspoonful mace and ground 4 eggs. 

cloves. J pound beef suet. 

1 teaspoonful salt. J pound currants. 

1J pounds raisins. J pound citron. 
\ pound figs. 

Soak the stale bread crumbs in one cup of hot milk. 
When cold, add the sugar and yelks of eggs beaten stiff, 



DESSERTS. 79 

also nutmeg, cinnamon, mace, ground cloves, and salt. 
Chop fine and cream the beef suet and add to the mixture 
with the raisins stoned and floured, and the currants, figs, 
and citron chopped fine. Add the wine and brandy, and 
the whites of four eggs beaten stiff. Turn into a buttered 
mold and steam from six to eight hours. — Boston Cooking 
School. 

MINCEMEAT PATTIES. 

Heat patty shells and mincemeat separately. When 
very hot, fill the shells with the mincemeat and serve 
with frozen whipped cream, flavored with brandy. 

FIQ PUDDING. 

J pound beef suet. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 heaping cups stale bread crumbs. J pound figs. 
J cup milk. 2 eggs well beaten. 

1 cup sugar. 

Chop and rub to a cream the beef suet, add the raisins 
finely chopped; mix thoroughly. To the bread crumbs 
add the well-beaten eggs, milk, sugar, and salt, and mix 
all together well. Place in a buttered pudding dish and 
steam for several hours. Serve with a fancy sauce. 

SAUCE FOR SAME. 

Beat the yelks of two eggs until light. Then beat the 
whites of two eggs stiff and add half a cup of powdered 
sugar. Combine the two and add one fourth cup of hot 
cream and four tablespoonfuls sherry wine. — Boston Cook- 
ing School. 



80 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

1 pint of milk. J cup raisins, chopped citron, 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. currants. 

i tablespoonful of butter. J teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. 1J pints stale sponge cake. 

Beat the eggs, sugar, and salt together; add the milk; 
sprinkle a pudding mold with cake crumbs, then a layer 
of fruit, then cake crumbs, and continue until all is used 
up. Pour on the custard and let it stand two hours, then 
steam one and a half hours. 

SAUCE FOR SAME. 

1 cup of butter. \ cup of cream. 2 cups powdered sugar. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, 
and when very light, add the cream. Flavor to taste. 
Cook for a few minutes in a double boiler. 

RICE PUDDING. 

4 tablespoonfuls of rice. Milk and cream. 

\ teaspoonful of salt. 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. " \ cup of stoned raisins. 

Into a pudding-dish holding a quart put the rice, 
which has been well washed and soaked. Fill the dish 
with milk and cream, and add the salt. Put into the 
oven to cook for about half an hour. Add the sugar, 
vanilla, and raisins, and return to the oven and cook 
slowly for two hours or more if necessary. If the milk 
boils down, lift the skin at the side and add a little more 
hot cream. To make the pudding creamy it must be 
cooked very slowly and plenty of cream used. Just before 
serving, spread thickly over the top fresh marshmallows. 



DESSERTS. 81 

Put in the oven just long enough for the marshmallows 
to swell. Before sending to the table, garnish with candied 
cherries or red jelly. Served with whipped or plain cream. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

2| cups of scalded cream. J cup of sugar. 

J cup of corn starch. $ can grated pineapple. 

} teaspoonful of salt. Whites of three eggs, beaten 

{ cup of cold milk. stiff. 

Mix the corn starch, sugar, salt, and cold milk well, 
and add to the scalded cream in a double boiler, stirring 
constantly until it thickens. Cook from ten to fifteen 
minutes, add the eggs, then pineapple. Mold, congeal, 
and serve with whipped cream. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

J box of gelatine. J cup of boiling water. 

Sweeten and flavor to taste. 1 quart of whipped cream. 

Soak the gelatine in the boiling water, sweeten and 
flavor to taste; add one quart of stiff whipped cream; 
put in molds and set away to congeal, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

White of 1 egg. Sponge lady fingers. 

J box gelatine dissolved in J pint 1 cup powdered sugar. 

boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

Yelks of 3 eggs. Whip from 1 quart of cream. 

Beat the white of an egg slightly, put a thin coating 
around a glass bowl, and then line with sponge lady 
fingers. Dissolve the gelatine in boiling water. When 
thoroughly dissolved, stir in the sugar, add the vanilla 
and the beaten yelks of three eggs; stir in the whip from 
a quart of cream, and when it stiffens some, pour into the 



82 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

bowl lined with sponge cakes and garnish the top prettily 
with whipped cream. 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD WITH SAUCE. 

Set a small saucepan, containing one half cup of sugar, 
over the fire and stir the sugar gently. As the sugar 
loses water by evaporation it assumes the appearance of 
flake tapioca, and as the cooking continues it changes 
color, becoming caramel. Care must be taken that the 
caramel does not burn or become too dark in color. Scald 
four cups of milk, and add the caramel to the milk very 
carefully, and as soon as the two are well blended, pour 
the mixture on to five eggs slightly beaten; then add one 
half teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Strain at once into a buttered melon mold, set the mold 
in a pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven until the 
custard is firm. Serve with caramel sauce. 

SAUCE FOR SAME. 

Put one half cup of sugar into a saucepan over the 
fire and stir the sugar until it melts and becomes a light 
brown color. Add half a cup of boiling water, and allow 
the liquid to simmer ten minutes. 

STRAWBERRY SPONQE. 

Soak one third box of gelatine in one third cup of cold 
water; dissolve in one third cup of boiling water; add one 
cup of sugar, juice of one lemon, and one cup of straw- 
berry juice. Set vessel in a pan of ice water and stir ■ 
until it thickens. Add the whites of three eggs beaten* 
stiff; and whip from one pint of cream. Chill before serv- 
ing. The cream may be omitted. If preserved straw- 
berries are used less sugar is required. 



DESSERTS. 83 

COMPOTE OF FIG.S. 

One pint of figs scalded and soaked over night in brandy. 
Pile up on a platter and serve with whipped cream or 
serve with brandy. 

BANBURY TARTS. 

1 cup raisins. 1 egg. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cracker. 

Juice and grated rind 1 lemon. 

Stone and chop raisins, add sugar, egg slightly beaten, 
cracker finely rolled, and lemon juice and rind. Roll 
pastry one-eighth inch thick, and cut pieces three and 
one half inches long by three inches wide. Put two 
teaspoons of mixture on each piece. Moisten edge with 
cold water half way round, fold over, press edges together 
with three-tined fork, first dipped in flour. Bake twenty 
minutes in slow oven. 

SIMPLE DESSERT. 

Lady fingers. Bananas, sliced thin, 

i cup of sherry wine. 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Whipped cream. 

Line a bowl with lady fingers, fill it half full of bananas 
sliced thin, pour over them about half a cup of sherry 
wine and a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, then fill the 
bowl with whipped cream. 

PRESERVES IN HALF ORANGES. 

Take half of an orange, scoop out all of the pulp, cut 
the edge in points, fill in with preserves — pineapple being 
prettiest — and serve with whipped cream. 



CAKES. 



* FRUIT CAKE. 

1 pound butter. 2 pounds raisins. 

1 pound sugar. 1 pound currants. 

1 pound flour. J pound figs. 

i pound citron. \ pound pineapple. 

\ pound candied cherries. 2 pounds almonds. 

12 eggs. 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 

2 nutmegs. 1 tablespoon allspice. 
J glass of wine. 1 cup of molasses. 

\ glass of brandy. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together. Add New 
Orleans molasses, then eggs, which have been beaten 
separately, next the flour, which has been browned; then 
dissolve two teaspoons of baking powder in a cup of cream 
or new milk, and add to the mixture. Then add the 
spices which have been dissolved in the tumblerful of 
liquor. Chop fruit and nuts, dredge with flour, and put 
in the batter last. Bake slowly four hours. 

PECAN CAKE. 

1 pound sugar. 1 pound flour. 

1 pound of butter. 10 eggs. 

J tumbler of brandy. 2 grated nutmegs. 

1 pound of raisins. J pound of citron. « 

1} pound of pecan kernels. 

Cream the butter and sugar until light. Add the eggs 
beaten separately, then the nutmeg stirred in the brandy, 

*Note. — This is the recipe which gave me my start in business. 



CAKES. 85 

then the flour, raisins, citron, and pecan kernels. Pour 
into buttered mold and bake half an hour longer than 
you would a black cake, same size. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

1 pound butter. 1 pound light brown sugar. 

1 pound flour. 2 pounds raisins. 

10 eggs. 2 pounds blanched almonds. 

6 grated nutmegs. i pound citron. 

Cream the butter and flour together, beat the yelks 
and sugar together, add the whites well beaten, mix them 
with the flour and butter. After this is all well beaten 
dredge fruit well with flour and put it in by degrees, add 
wine glass of whisky or brandy. Bake in a loaf for four 
hours. 

WHITE LADY CAKE. 

12 eggs. 2} teacups sugar. 

1 teacup of butter. 3J teacups of flour. 

1 cup of cream. 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar together until very light; 
add the whites of eggs beaten stiff, then the flour, and 
then the baking powder stirred in the cream. Bake in a 
solid cake in a moderate oven for very nearly one hour. 
Any desired flavoring may be used. 

LAYER CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 6 eggs. 

3 cups flour. 2 heaping teaspoons baking 

§ cup milk. powder. 

2 cups sugar. 

Take only the whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Mix as in 
lady cake, and bake in tins in a moderate oven. 



86 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

12 eggs. 1J cups of sugar. 

1$ cups flour. 1 level teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Beat the yelks of eight eggs with the sugar until very 
light. Beat the whites of twelve eggs with the cream 
tartar to a stiff froth. Add to the yelks and sugar, then 
add the flour slowly; flavor to taste, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven forty minutes. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

12 eggs, whites beaten stiff. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1J tumblers powdered sugar. 1 tumbler of flour. 

Take the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth with the 
cream of tartar added. Sift the powdered sugar into the 
eggs and cut it in with an egg-beater (never stir angel food 
with a spoon). After the flour has been sifted five times, 
sift very slowly into the egg and sugar. Add a teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Grease the cake pan very little with butter, 
lining the bottom with unglazed letter paper which has 
been slightly greased. Pour in the cake and bake forty 
minutes. Put a pan of water over it from the first. Re- 
move from the oven, invert the pan, and let it stand until 
the cake falls out without being disturbed. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

J cup butter. 1 cup granulated sugar. 

3 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

1$ cups flour. 1J teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup hickory nuts chopped fine. 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Beat 
the yelks of three eggs light and add to the butter and sugar 
with one cup milk. To the flour add the baking powder, 



CAKES. 87 

stir into the batter, add the hickory nut meats chopped 

fine, and the whites of two eggs beaten stiff. Bake in a 

buttered and floured pan from forty to fifty minutes, or in 

small pans. 

DEVILS' FOOD. 

Whites 8 eggs. 1 cup of butter. 

3 cups sugar. 1 cup sweet or sour milk. 

3 cups flour. £ cup grated chocolate melted. 

Cream the butter and sugar together; add the choc- 
olate, then the eggs. If sweet milk is used, use two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. If buttermilk is used, use one 
teaspoon of soda. Whichever is used, add next to the 
mixture and lastly the flour. Bake in solid mold. 

ICING. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one cup of brown sugar, 
three fourths cup of grated chocolate, one cup rich cream, 
tablespoon of butter cooked until done; add vanilla and 
beat until it begins to thicken. 

SPICE CAKE. 

1 cup of sugar. J cup of molasses. 

J cup of butter. \ cup of sour milk. 

2J cups of flour. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 

4 eggs. \ teaspoonful of cloves. 

J teaspoonful allspice. 1J pounds raisins (if desired;. 

Use only the well-beaten yelks of eggs. Bake in small 
pans or as a solid cake. 

MUFFIN CAKES. 

1 cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 4 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, beat eggs sepa- 
rately, add the yelks and then the whites. Dissolve two 



88 THE BLUE HIBBON COOK BOOK. 

teaspoons of baking powder in one half cup of milk, add to 
the batter, and lastly the flour. Bake in muffin rings. 

BLACKBERRY JAM CAKE. 

} cup of butter. 3 eggs. 

1 cup of sugar. 1 cup of jam. 

2 cups of flour. 3 tablespoons of cream. 

2 teaspoons of cinnamon. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon nutmeg. 1 teaspoon cloves. 

1 teaspoon allspice. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the jam, then the 
eggs beaten separately, add the spices and then the bak- 
ing powder dissolved in the cream, and lastly the flour. 
Bake in layers. Put white icing between and all over it. 

SOUR MILK QINQER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup sour milk. 

2J cups flour. If teaspoonfuls soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger. J teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup melted butter. 

Add the milk to the molasses, mix and sift the dry 
ingredients, combine the two, add butter and beat vigor- 
ously. Pour into a buttered, shallow pan and bake twenty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven. 

QINQER SNAPS. 

2 cups of molasses. 1 heaping teaspoon ginger. 

1 cup of lard. J teaspoon pepper. 

1 tablespoon of soda. 

Cream the molasses and lard together; add ginger and 
pepper, then dissolve the soda in as little hot water as pos- 
sible and add flour enough to roll. Roll thin, cut out and 
bake in buttered pans with a little flour sprinkled over 
them. 



CAKES. 89 

GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses. J cup of butter. 

1J teaspoonfuls soda. J cup sour milk. 

1 egg. 2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger. J teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the butter and molasses in a saucepan and cook 
until the boiling point is reached. Remove from the fire, 
add the soda and beat vigorously, then add the milk, 
eggs well beaten, and the remaining ingredients mixed and 
sifted. Bake fifteen minutes in buttered pans two thirds 
filled with the mixture. 

COOKIES. 

3 cups sugar. 1J cups butter. 
6 eggs. 5 pints flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls carbonate of ammonia. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs three at a 
time into it, and then beat well. Add the ammonia, and 
lastly flour, and roll thin. 

SAND TARTS. 

1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 

3 eggs. Flour enough to roll. 

Roll thin, paint the tops with the white of egg, sprinkle 
over with equal parts of ground cinnamon and granulated 
sugar, and in the center of each place one fourth of a 
blanched almond. Put in floured pans and bake in a 
quick oven. 

CRULLERS. 

2 cups of butter. 3J cups of sugar. 

12 eggs. Flour enough to roll. 

Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon, roll thin, shape and 
fry in hot fat. 



90 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

NURRUMBURQHS. 

2 eggs. $ teaspoon ground cinnamon. 

J cup sugar. § teaspoon ground cloves. 

} cup flour. § cup roasted almonds. 

J teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon candied orange peel. 

Grated rind of J of lemon. 

Beat whites of two eggs stiff, add one cup of sugar and 
yelks of two eggs, three fourths cup of flour, one fourth 
teaspoon salt, one third teaspoon cinnamon, one eighth tea- 
spoon cloves, two thirds cup roasted almonds. Drop on 
sheet sprinkled with one half sugar and one hah corn 
starch. Sprinkle top with chopped almonds, cut out and 
bake. 



FILLINGS FOR CAKES. 



PLAIN CARAMEL. 

2 cups of sugar. f cup of maple syrup. 

Cream to wet thoroughly. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put sugar, syrup, and cream on, and when it boils add 
the butter. Boil it until very thick. Add one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla, take from the fire, and beat until it begins to 
sugar. Then pour over the cake. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL. 

Same as above, only before it begins to boil add one 
fourth cake of Baker's chocolate. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING. 

Blanch one half pound almonds and chop them. 
Beat a teacup of sour cream until light and thick; add 



CAKES. 91 

three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two eggs beaten separately, 
and the chopped nuts. Hickory or any kind of nuts can 
be used. Spread between layers of cake. 

ICE CREAM FILLING. 

3 cups sugar. 1 cup water. 

3 eggs, whites beaten stiff. 1 teaspoonful vanila. 

Boil sugar and water to a candy, pour slowly over the 
beaten whites of three eggs, flavor with vanilla, beat until 
it begins to cream, and pour over the cake. 

Grated cocoanut sprinkled between the layers and on 
top makes a delicious cocoanut cake. 

Blanched almonds grated and mixed with the icing 
makes a delicious filling. 

MARSHMALLOW AND PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

Take fresh marshmallows, put into the oven to soften, 
spread over the cake with a little chopped candied pine- 
apple, and pour over same the ice cream filling given above. 

CREAM ICING FOR ANGEL FOOD. 

3 cups of sugar. $ teaspoonful of vanilla. 1 cup of cream. 

Let it come to a good hard boil, beat hard until creamy, 
and pour over the angel food. 

PRAULINE ICING. 

Make a plain caramel, and when done add one cup of 
broken pecan kernels just before pouring on the cake. 



ICES. 



NESSELBRODE PUDDING. 

1 cup of marons. 1 cup of granulated sugar. 

Yelks of 3 eggs. J pint of cream. 

1 pound of candied fruits. J can pineapple (drained). 

Take candied fruits and marons and soak them in 
sherry wine. Put sugar on the fire with one fourth of a 
cup of boiling water and boil to a syrup. Beat the yelks 
of eggs until light. Pour on them slowly the syrup, 
stirring all the time. Put on the fire in a double boiler 
and cook until the consistency of thick cream. Remove 
and beat hard until cold. When cold, add the cream, the 
marons pounded, and half a teaspoonful of vanilla, and 
freeze. When nearly hard frozen, add the candied fruits, 
one fourth of a pound of raisins, one fourth of a pound of 
pounded almonds, and a glass of sherry wine, and freeze 
hard. Remove the dasher and allow it to stand for 
several hours. — Century Cook Book. 

PLAIN VANILLA CREAM. 

Take one quart of plain, rich cream, season and flavor. 
When half frozen, add one quart of stiff whipped cream 
which has been sweetened and flavored. Freeze hard. 
Pack for an hour before using. 



ices. 93 

SULTANA ROLL. 

Line a mold with pistachio ice cream, sprinkle with 
Sultana raisins, fill center with whipped cream, and let 
stand two and one half hours. Pack in ice and salt. 
Serve with claret sauce. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

Scald one pint of cream. Mix one tablespoon of flour, 
one cup of sugar, one fourth teaspoon salt, and one beaten 
egg; pour on one pint of milk; cook twenty minutes in 
double boiler, stirring often. Cool. Add one quart of 
cream flavored with one tablespoon of vanilla, tablespoon 
of almonds. Strain and freeze. Use just enough of Bur- 
nett's Fruit Coloring to make a pretty green. 

CLARET SAUCE. 

Boil one cup sugar and one third cup water to a syrup. 
Cool and add five tablespoonfuls claret. 

TO FREEZE A WATERMELON. 

Take three pints of stiff whipped cream, color with 
Burnett's Green Vegetable Coloring, sweeten and flavor 
with extract of pistachio, put in a freezer and freeze very 
hard. 

Then take a quart of very stiff whipped cream, sweeten 
and flavor with a little sherry wine, put in a freezer and 
freeze hard. 

Then take a quart of stiff whipped cream, sweeten and 
color pink with Burnett's Vegetable Coloring, and flavor 
with strawberry. Put in a freezer and freeze hard. 

Take a melon mold and line it with the green, then 
put a layer of the white, and then the pink, sprinkled well 



94 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

with Sultana raisins that have been soaked in brandy, 
making the seeds. Cover with the white cream, and then 
the green; put a piece of buttered letter paper over it and 
then the tin top. Pack in salt and ice, and let stand for 
several hours. 

FROZEN APRICOTS. 

Cut one can of apricots in small pieces, drain and add 
to the syrup water enough to make a quart, add one and 
one half cups of sugar and cook ten minutes. Cool — 
partially freeze — add apricots and finish freezing. Pack 
the freezer with crushed ice and rock salt in proportions 
of three to one. 

THREE OF A KIND. 

Juice of 3 lemons. Juics of 3 oranges. 

Sugar to taste. 3 slices of canned peaches or 

2 bananas. pineapple. 

1 quart of cold water. 

Take the lemon juice, cold water, and sugar, and a 
pint of rich cream — to be added after the lemon and 
water are packed in the freezer. When this begins to 
freeze, add the juice of three oranges, two bananas which 
have been put through a fine sieve, and three slices of 
canned peaches or pineapple put through a sieve. Freeze 
until very hard. Pack and serve. 

VICTORIA PUNCH. 

Boil three and one half cups water and two cups sugar 
fifteen minutes. Add the juice of four lemons and grated 
rind and juice of two oranges. Cool and partially freeze. 
Add one cup angelica, one cup cider, one and one half 
tablespoonfuls gin and freeze again. Alcoholic liquors 
retard freezing. 



ices. 95 



HOLLANDAISE PUNCH. 

4 cups of water. 1$ cups of sugar. 

J cup of lemon juice. 1 can pineapple. 

I cup of brandy. 2 tablespoonfuls of gin. 

Cook the water, sugar, and a little grated lemon rind 
fifteen minutes. Add lemon juice and pineapple, cool, 
strain, and freeze partly, then add the liquor and continue 
freezing. 

MONTROSE PUDDING. 

1 cup of cream. Yelks of 6 eggs. 

1 cup of granulated sugar. Vanilla. 

Put a pint of cream on in a double boiler, and when 
hot add eggs and sugar. Cook until it thickens. Remove 
from the fire, add vanilla, and when cold, add one pint of 
cream whipped. When partially frozen line a mold and 
fill the center with raspberry, pineapple, or orange sherbet. 

SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon of gelatine. Yelks of 3 eggs. 

J cup of powdered sugar 1 tablespoon of vanilla. 

1 pint of cream. 2 tablespoons brandy and sherry 

wine. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a little hot water. Add the 
yelks of the eggs; add the sugar and the cream. Boil to 
a syrup. When it begins to thicken add the gelatine; 
remove from fire, and when cold add the vanilla, brandy, 
and sherry wine. 

ORANGE ICE. 

To four cups of sugar add a quart of water, and boil 
to a thick syrup. Add to this the juice of twelve oranges 



96 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

and four lemons, and one quart of cold water. Put in a 
freezer and freeze. Pineapple or any water ice may be 
made in the same way. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Take the same syrup as above; add one quart of sherry, 
one half pint of brandy, one half pint of rum, one pound of 
candied cherries, one half pound candied pineapple, half a 
pound of grapes, and the juice of six lemons with the 
extra quart of cold water. 

FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

One half gallon fresh chopped peaches or fresh straw- 
berries, sweetened to taste. Let stand in sugar over 
night or for several hours. Add one half gallon sweet 
cream and freeze. 

FRUIT SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup of water boiled to a 
syrup, add fruit juice and boil until thick. If desired, add 
one half cup of whipped cream and serve cold, on cream or 
sherbet. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

1 cup of boiling water. 6 tablespoons of grated chocolate. 

} cup of sugar. J cup of milk. 

i tablespoon of arrowroot. 

Boil the water and sugar; add the chocolate moistened 
with one half cup of milk, and the arrowroot dissolved in 
one half cup of water: boil three minutes. Strain and 
serve hot or cold, on ice cream or cake. 

Grape juice is delicious served over sherbet. 



ices. 97 

NUT CARAMEL SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

One cup of maple syrup, one cup of sugar boiled until 
thick. Add one half cup of nut kernels chopped fine, or 
if more nuts are desired, add whole cup. 

BRANDY SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

One cup of sugar and one cup of water boiled until 
thick. When cold add three tablespoons of brandy, or 
more if desired, and add one cup of whipped cream. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

COFFEE. 

One cup of coffee (ground), one egg, one cup of cold 
water, six cups of boiling water. Scald coffee pot. Beat 
egg slightly, dilute with one half the cold water, add 
crushed shell and mix with coffee. Turn into coffee pot 
and pour on boiling water, and stir thoroughly. Place on 
front of range and boil three minutes. If not boiled, 
coffee is cloudy. If boiled too long, too much tannic acid 
is developed. Stir and pour some in a cup to be sure 
spout is free from grounds. Return to coffee pot and 
repeat. Add remaining cold water, which perfects clear- 
ing. Cold water being heavier than hot, sinks to the bot- 
tom, carrying grounds with it. Place on back of range 
for ten minutes where it will not boil. Serve at once. 

PASTRY CRULLERS. 

1 quart flour. 2 cups water. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Mix the flour and water, then the butter, then the 
beaten eggs and a little salt. Have the cruller iron heated 
thoroughly in boiling lard. Be very careful to drain all 
the lard from the iron, dip into some of the batter which 
you have put into a pint cup, being careful not to let the 
iron touch the bottom or sides of the cup; then dip in 
boiling lard and fry to a nice brown; remove from the 
iron and heat it again. Serve plain this way as a garnish, 
or sprinkle with cinnamon sugar as a cruller. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



CHOCOLATE. 



1J squares Baker's chocolate. Few grains salt. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup boiling water. 

3 cups milk and cream. 

Scald milk and cream. Melt chocolate in small sauce- 
pan placed over hot water, add sugar, salt, and gradually 
boiling water; when smooth, place on range and boil one 
minute; add to scalded milk and cream; mill, and serve in 
chocolate cups with whipped cream. One and one half 
ounces vanilla chocolate may be substituted for Baker's 
chocolate; being sweetened, less sugar is required. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

One quarter (scant) cup of butter, one half cup of boil- 
ing water, one half cup of flour, two eggs. Put butter in 
small saucepan, and pour on water. As soon as the water 
reaches boiling point add flour all at once, and stir until 
mixture leaves sides of saucepan. Remove from fire and 
add eggs unbeaten, one at a time, beating mixture thor- 
oughly between eggs. Drop by spoonfuls and fry in deep 
fat until well browned. Drain, make an opening and fill 
with preserves or fresh fruits. Sprinkle with sugar. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

1 cup of flour. J cup of water. 

1 tablespoon sugar. J tablespoon olive oil or 

J teaspoon salt. Snowflake oil. 

White of 1 egg. 2 medium sized sour apples. 

Mix flour, sugar, and salt, add water gradually; then 
oil and white of egg beaten until stiff. Peel, core, 
and cut apples in eighths; then cut eighths in slices and 
stir into batter. Drop by spoonfuls and fry in deep fat. 
Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 
Serve hot. 



100 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

SWEDISH TIMBALS. 

One pint of flour, less two tablespoonfuls, one half pint 
sweet milk, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls olive oil or 
Snowflake oil, one teaspoonful of salt. Stir flour and 
milk to perfectly smooth batter, add oil, then salt and 
eggs. Dip timbal iron in boiling oil, then in batter, and 
then in fat, fill with fricasseed oysters with mushrooms. 

OMELET. 

Experience has taught us that an omelet is the most 
difficult to prepare of all egg dishes. In the first place an 
omelet pan should never be used for anything else. Before 
using, it is well to rub it with dry salt, to be sure it is per- 
fectly smooth; and it is better to make several small ome- 
lets than to try to make one large one. Break from three 
to five eggs into a bowl, and beat twelve beats; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and a few pieces of butter. Have the 
omelet pan hot, and put in just enough butter to cover the 
surface without being too greasy. Pour in the egg, and 
when it begins to cook, carefully cut it in several places so 
that the uncooked egg may cook evenly. Then take a 
broad knife and fold it over, placing the dish on which the 
omelet is to be served on top the omelet pan; lift the pan 
carefully and turn out on to the dish. Garnish with 
parsley. 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

1 boiled chicken. 1 pint of cream. 

1 tablespoon of butter. J cup green peppers. 

1 tablespoon of flour. Salt, pepper, and celery. 

Sauce to taste. 

Melt one tablespoon of butter, add one tablespoon of 
flour, and when thoroughly blended add the cream and 



MISCELLANEOUS. 101 

seasonings. Cook until thick, and add one half chicken 
which has been put through a meat grinder and one half 
cup of green peppers which have been parboiled and cut 
fine. Serve on buttered toast or patty shell. 

EQQ NOG. 

12 eggs. 12 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

12 tablespoonfuls best whisky. 12 tablespoonfuls Jamaica rum. 

Beat the yelks and sugar together until very light; 
then add the liquor slowly, next the whites, beaten to a 
stiff froth, and then one pint and a half of cream, whipped. 

CHEESE RAMEQUINES. 

Mix one half cup of grated cheese (mild), one table- 
spoon flour, one half saltspoon of salt, and a little cayenne 
pepper; add the well-beaten whites of three eggs. Shape 
in balls, allowing three tablespoonfuls for each ball, and 
fry in hot fat. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch the almonds, wipe dry, place in a frying-basket, 
then into Snowfiake oil heated to the boiling point. 
When nicely browned, remove from the oil, sprinkle salt 
on them, and let them drain. Any other nut can be 
cooked in the same way. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Equal quantities of green grapes, oranges, pineapples, 
grape fruit, maraschino, or candied cherries all cut up 
together and serve with sherry. This is delicious frozen 
and used as first course. The grapes and pineapples 
sweetened and frozen together with plenty of sherry make 
a delicious first course also. 



102 THE BLUE EIBBON COOK BOOK. 

A DAINTY FIRST COURSE. 

Fill tall glass half full of maraschino or creme de menthe 
cherries. Put lemon or pineapple sherbet on top. Gar- 
nish with fresh mint. 

ANCHOVY EOQS. 

Cut hard-boiled eggs in two, lengthwise. (Boil the 
eggs twenty-five minutes, so that the yelks will be thor- 
oughly done). Take out the yelks. Mash them well, mix 
them with mayonnaise dressing and the trimmings of the 
anchovies. Fill the one half with the mixture, covering 
the whole top. Trim anchovies to the right length and 
lay two of them across the top of each. To make it stand 
firm, slice a little piece from the bottom of the egg. Gar- 
nish with parsley and serve as first course. 

MOLASSES TAFFY. 

2 cups of brown sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

| cup of molasses. 2 teaspoons of vanilla. 

I cup water. 

Boil the sugar, molasses, and water until when dropped 
in a little cold water you can pick it up in your fingers. 
Then add butter and cook until candy is brittle when try- 
ing it in the water. Add the vanilla. Pour on buttered 
pans and pull. Be careful not to stir, or it will turn to 
sugar. When first put on to boil, a bit of cream of tartar 
will add to the lightness of it. 

ICE CREAM CANDY. 

2 cups of granulated or powdered 2 tablespoons of vinegar. 

sugar. 1 tablespoon of butter. 

1 cup of water. 2 tablespoons of vanilla. 

Cook the same as molasses candy. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 103 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

Grate half a pound of American cheese. Mix in it a 
scant tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of milk, an 
egg beaten enough to break it, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a dash of paprika. Mix to a smooth paste and mold 
into small croquettes, using a tablespoonful of the paste 
for each croquette. The above proportions will make 
eight croquettes. 

Add a little milk to the yelk of an egg and roll the cro- 
quettes in this and then in cracker dust. Then fry them 
for a minute in smoking hot fat. They should have a 
delicate brown color and be soft inside. Serve them as 
soon as they are fried, or the cheese will harden. 

This is a delicious cheese dish and very easily made. 

CHILI CONCARNI. 

2 cans of tomatoes. 1 lemon minus the juice. 

1 stalk of celery. 1 tablespoon of whole cloves. 

9 red pepper pods. 1 tablespoon of whole allspice. 

5 dried onions. 2 quarts of water. 

3 pods of garlic. 

Boil hard for two hours. Strain through colander. 
Put on at the same time two pounds of Hamburg steak in 
a little water; boil for two hours; add to this three cans 
of kidney beans. Add these to the tomatoes. Then add 
two tablespoons of Chili powder and serve hot. Enough 
for two meals for family of six. 

CARAMELS. 

1$ pounds of brown sugar. J pound of Baker's chocolate. 

J pound of butter. 1 cup of cream or milk. 

Put in kettle and boil until, when tried in cold water, 
a firm ball may be held in the fingers. 



104 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

NUT CARAMELS. 

1 cup of chocolate. 1J pounds of almonds blanched 

1 pound of meat of English walnuts. and chopped. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

1 cup of sugar. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

1 cup of molasses. 2 tablespoons of boiling water. 

J cup of butter. 

Boil the ingredients until, when tried in cold water, 
the mixture will be brittle. Flavor with vanilla. Pour 
into a well-buttered pan, and when cool, cut in squares. 

RAISIN PICKLES. 

2 pounds of raisins. 2 teaspoons white mustard. 

3 dozen cucumbers (sliced). 2 teaspoons of celery. 
Piece of stick cinnamon. 1 teaspoon black pepper. 

3 teaspoons mace. 3 coffee cups brown sugar. 

J. quart of vinegar. 

Put on the vinegar, spices, and sugar, and when it 
boils put in the raisins and let boil until clear. Pour all 
over the cucumbers which are ready in a vessel large 
enough to mix all together. If fresh cucumbers are used, 
soak in salt water over night. If pickled cucumbers are 
used, chop and add. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

4 dozen cucumbers. 4 dozen onions. 24 green peppers. 

Cut each cucumber in four pieces, scoop out the seeds 
and chop cucumber. Slice the onions and chop up the 
> green peppers. Put all together in a bag. Put over them 
one quart of salt, tablespoon of celery seed, tablespoon 
allspice, one half tablespoon cloves and let stand over 
night. The same day take five quarts of vinegar made 



MISCELLANEOUS. 105 

very sweet with sugar. Boil and let it stand over night. 
The next morning take the pickles out of the bag and 
put in jar. Pour over the five quarts of vinegar, and 
they are ready for use. This is delicious served with 
game or fish. Very pretty served in a half lemon scooped 
out. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

2 dozen cucumbers large, or 4 J dozen large green peppers, 
dozen small. 2 dozen white onions sliced. 

i peck of green tomatoes. J peck green beans. 

1 cup of sugar. 

Cut the cucumbers in slices one inch thick, slice toma- 
toes thin and sprinkle with salt and let stand twenty-four 
hours. Then rinse off the salt. Grate two roots of horse- 
radish, add one fourth pound of white mustard seed and 
five red peppers cut up. One ounce stick cinnamon. 
Make a paste of one pound of mustard, one ounce of celery 
seed, one ounce of turmeric, one pint Snowflake or olive oil. 

Put vegetables in a pan and mix spices and paste all 
through them, scald enough vinegar (one gallon or more) 
to cover them. Pour over boiling hot. Stir every day 
or two. Ready for use in about two weeks. Makes three 
gallons. 

GRAPE PICKLE. 

7 pounds of grapes. 1 pint of vinegar. 

3| pounds of sugar. 1 ounce of cloves. 

1 ounce ground cinnamon. 

Pulp the grapes and boil until the seeds can be strained 
out through a sieve; then put the skins and all into the 
syrup and boil fifteen minutes or longer. Tie spices in a 
bag. 



106 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

QREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Slice a peck of small green tomatoes thin and half as 
many nice onions. Place them in layers in a stone jar. 
Sprinkle each layer very lightly with salt. Weight them 
down for twelve hours, then let them drain (I put mine 
in separate jars or bags). Put in a porcelain kettle, 
sprinkle through them one half pound white mustard 
seed. In a bowl put 

2 pounds of sugar. 1 heaping tablespoon cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon mace (heaping). 1 heaping tablespoon ginger. 

1 teaspoon allspice. 1 heaping tablespoon black pepper. 

1 teaspoon cloves. 2 tablespoons of celery seed. 

Mix all of these ingredients with a little cold vinegar 
until smooth, then add a gallon more. Turn over the 
tomatoes with some strips of horseradish; stew slowly 
and stir often with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. 
Ready for use as soon as cold. This is good either sliced 
or chopped. 

BANANA CROQUETTES. 

Remove the skin and coarse threads from the banana 
and trim pulp of each to a long croquette. Roll in an egg 
beaten with a teaspoonful of cold water and then in bread 
crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper. Fry one half 
minute in hot fat. Drain on soft paper. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Peel and weigh the peaches and put to them about 
half the weight of sugar. Put in the kettle just enough 
water to moisten the sugar and let boil until the peaches 
are done enough to pierce to the seed with a straw. Then 
take them out and put on dishes. Boil syrup until it is 



MISCELLANEOUS. 107 

quite thick. Then put in a bowl to cool. To three pints 
of syrup add two pints of whisky or brandy, and pour it 
over the peaches in air-tight jars. 

EGGS BAKED IN TOMATOES. 

Select round tomatoes of uniform size. Cut off the 
stem ends and take out enough of the pulp to leave a space 
as large as an egg. Sprinkle the inside with salt and pep- 
per. Drop into each one an egg. Place the filled toma- 
toes in a baking-dish with a little hot water, and bake 
them about fifteen minutes, or until the eggs are set and 
the tomatoes are a little softened. Serve the eggs on 
rounds of bread browned in butter. No sauce is required 
with this dish. 

BOILED HAM. 

Soak several hours or over night in cold water to cover. 
Wash thoroughly, trim off hard skin near end of bone, put 
in a kettle, cover with cold water, heat to boiling point, 
and cook slowly until tender. Remove kettle from range 
and set aside, that ham may partially cool; then take from 
water, remove outside skin, sprinkle with sugar and fine 
cracker crumbs, and stick with cloves one half inch apart. 
Bake one hour in a slow oven. Serve cold, thinly sliced. 
Boil four to five hours. 

OATMEAL WITH SLICED BANANAS. 

Have the water salty — one half teaspoon to a pint of 
freshly boiled water. Stir in slowly one cup of steam- 
cooked oats to two cups of water. Let boil up once after 
all the grain is added. Then set into hot water kettle or 
double boiler and cook from one half hour to a full hour; 



108 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

the latter is preferable. Pour into patent charlotte russe 
molds or cups and let it stand over night. In the morning 
turn from the molds into a hot baking sheet and set in the 
oven until very hot. If molded in cups remove the 
centers, leaving a wall of the oatmeal. Remove to the 
serving dishes with a broad-bladed knife and fill the centers 
with slices of banana. Put a spoonful of whipped cream 
above the bananas, and serve in a nest of whipped cream. 

HOW TO MAKE TEA. 

3 teaspoons tea. 2 cups boiling water. 

Scald an earthen or china teapot. Put in tea, and pour 
on boiling water. Let stand on back of range or in a 
warm place five minutes. Strain and serve immediately, 
with or without sugar and milk. Avoid second steeping 
of leaves with addition of a few fresh ones. If this is done, 
so large an amount of tannin is extracted that various ills 
are apt to follow. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 

Follow recipe for making tea. Russian tea may be 
served hot or cold, but always without milk. A thin slice 
of lemon, from which seeds have been removed, or a few 
drops of lemon juice, is allowed for each cup. Sugar is 
added according to taste. In Russia a preserved straw- 
berry to each cup is considered an improvement. We 
imitate our Russian friends by garnishing with a candied 
cherry. 



SIMPLE DISHES FOR THE SICK. 



TOAST WATER. 

Toast three slices of stale bread to a dark brown, but 
do not burn. Put into a pitcher, pour over them one 
quart boiling water. Cover closely and let stand on ice 
until cold. Strain. If desired, wine and sugar may be 
added. 

RICE WATER. 

Pick over and wash two tablespoonfuls of rice. Put 
into a granite saucepan with one quart boiling water. 
Simmer two hours, when rice should be softened and par- 
tially dissolved. Strain; add a saltspoonful of salt. 
Serve warm or cold. Two tablespoonfuls of sherry or 
port may be added if desired. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Wash two ounces (one wineglassful) of pearl barley 
with cold water. Boil five minutes in fresh water. Throw 
both waters away; pour on two quarts of boiling water 
and boil down to one quart. Flavor with thinly cut 
lemon rind. Add sugar to taste. Do not strain unless 
at the patient's request. 

EQQ WATER. 

Stir the whites of two eggs into half a pint of ice water 
without beating the eggs. Add enough salt or sugar to 
make palatable. 



110 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

FLAXSEED TEA. 

Flaxseed, whole, 1 ounce (1 heap- White sugar, 1 ounce. 

ing tablespoonful). Lemon juice, 4 tablespoonfuls. 

Licorice root, J ounce (two small sticks). 

Pour on these materials two pints of boiling water. 
Let stand in a hot place four hours and strain off the 
liquor. 

PEPTONIZED MILK (Cold Process). 

In a clean quart bottle put one peptonizing powder 
(extract of pancreas 5 grains, bicarbonate of soda 15 grains 
— or the contents of one peptonizing tube — Fairchild), 
add one teacup of cold water and shake well. Add one 
pint of fresh cold milk and shake mixture again. Place 
on ice. Use when required without subjecting to heat. 

PEPTONIZED MILK (Warm Process). 

Mix peptonizing powder with water and milk as 
described above; place bottle in water only so hot that 
the whole hand can be held in it a minute without dis- 
comfort. Keep the bottle there ten minutes. Then put 
on ice to check further digestion. Do not heat long 
enough to render the milk bitter. 

PEPTONIZED MILK TOAST. 

Over two slices of toast pour one gill of peptonized 
milk (cold process), let stand on the back of stove thirty- 
minutes, serve warm or strain and serve fluid portion 
alone. Plain, light sponge cake may be similarly digested. 

KOUMISS. 

Take ordinary beer bottle with shifting cork, put in it 
one pint of milk, one sixth of a cake of Fleischmann's 



SIMPLE DISHES FOR THE SICK. Ill 

yeast, or one tablespoonful of fresh lager beer yeast 
(brewer's), one half of a tablespoonful of white sugar 
reduced to a syrup. Shake well and allow it to stand in 
the refrigerator two or three days, when it may be used. 
It will keep there indefinitely if laid on its side. Much 
waste can be saved by preparing the bottles with ordinary 
corks wired in position, and drawing off the koumiss with 
a champagne tap. 

CREAMED OATMEAL. 

Boil oatmeal as for breakfast, rub it through a fine 
sieve, add a little cream, and cook very slowly in a double 
boiler for half an hour longer. When perfectly smooth, 
add a very little salt and rich cream. This is the most 
delicate preparation of oatmeal that an invalid can take. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Make sauce as for creamed chicken (on page 116). 
Add parboiled sweetbreads chopped fine and a table- 
spoonful of sherry wine. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saute pan. Lay 
twenty good-sized oysters into it. When the edges curl 
and the oysters plump, dust them with pepper and salt, 
and serve at once on toast. Two tablespoonfuls of sherry 
can be added before serving if desired. 

RAW MEAT DIET. 

Scrape pulp from a good steak; season to taste. Spread 
on slices of bread, then sear the bread slightly, and serve 
as a sandwich. 



112 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

APPLE SOUP. 

Two cups of raw apple, two cups of water, two tea- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, one and a half tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one saltspoonful of cinnamon, and a bit of salt. 
Stew the apple in the water until it is very soft. Then 
mix together in a smooth paste the corn starch, sugar, 
salt, and cinnamon with a little cold water. Pour this 
into the apple and boil five minutes. Strain it and keep 
hot until ready to serve. May serve with cream if desired. 

BEEF MINCE. 

Have a pound of beef from the round. Free it from 
all sinews and fat. Mince it very fine. To two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan put in the meat and a 
teaspoonful of onion juice. Stir for three or four minutes, 
or until the meat is hot through. Add salt and pepper, 
and if desired a little lemon juice. Serve on hot buttered 
toast. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

One tablespoonful of whole flaxseed, one pint of boiling 
water, lemon juice, and sugar. Pick over and wash the 
flaxseed, add water, and cook two hours, keeping just 
below the boiling point. Strain; add lemon juice and 
sugar to taste. 

ORANOEADE. 

Juice of 1 orange. 1} tablespoonfuls of syrup. 

2 tablespoonfuls of crushed ice. 

Make a syrup by boiling eight minutes one cup of 
water and half a cup of sugar. Mix the orange juice and 
the syrup, and pour over the crushed ice. 



SIMPLE DISHES FOR THE SICK. 113 

SHERRY NOG. 

To the yelk of one egg thoroughly beaten add one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar and two tablespoonfuls 
of sherry wine and a pint of whipped cream. 

MILK PUNCH. 

i cup milk. Sugar. 

1 tablespoon whisky, rum, or Few gratings nutmeg, 

brandy. 

Mix ingredients, cover, and shake well. 

COCOA CORDIAL. 

1 teaspoon cocoa. J cup boiling water. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 1J tablespoons port wine. 

Mix cocoa and sugar, add enough of the water to form 
a paste. Stir in remainder of water and boil one minute, 
then add wine. Useful in cases of chill or exhaustion. 

PEPTONIZED OYSTERS. 

Mince six large or twelve small oysters. Add to them, 
in their own liquor, five grains extract of pancreas with 
fifteen grains bicarbonate of soda, or one Fairchild pep- 
tonizing tube. The mixture is then brought to a blood 
heat and maintained, with occasional stirring, at that 
temperature thirty minutes, when one pint of milk is 
added and the temperature kept up ten to twenty minutes. 
Finally the mass is brought to a boiling point; strain and 
serve. Gelatine may be added and the mixture served 
cold as a jelly. Cooked tomatoes, onions, celery, or other 
flavoring suited to individual tastes may be added at the 
beginning of artificial digestion. 



114 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

BEEF TEA. 

Free a pound of lean beef from fat, tendon, cartilage, 
bone, and vessels; chop up fine, put into a pint of cold 
water for two hours. Simmer on the stove three hours, 
but do not boil. Make up for the water lost by adding 
cold water so that a pint of beef tea represents one pound 
of beef. Press the beef very carefully, and strain. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Cut a thin, juicy steak into pieces about one and one 
half inches square. Sear separately one and one half 
minutes, on each side, over a hot fire. Squeeze in a hot 
lemon squeezer, flavor with salt and pepper. May add 
to milk, or pour on toast. 

MEAT CURE. 

Procure slices of steak from the top of the round, with- 
out fat. Cut meat into strips, removing all fat, gristle, 
etc., with a knife. Put meat through mincer at least 
twice. Then beat it well in a roomy saucepan with cold 
water or skimmed beef tea, to the consistency of cream. 
The right proportion is one teaspoonful of liquid to eight 
of pulp. Add black pepper and salt to taste. Stir the 
mince briskly with a wooden spoon the whole time it is 
cooking, over a slow fire, or on the cool part of cupboard 
range, until hot through and through and the red color 
disappears. This requires one and one half hours. When 
done it should be a soft, stiff, smooth puree, of the consis- 
tency of good paste. Serve hot. Add for the first few 
meals a softly poached white of an egg. 



SIMPLE DISHES FOR THE SICK. 115 

STERILIZED MILK. 

Put the required amount of milk in clean bottles; if 
for infants, each bottle holding enough for one feeding. 
Plug the mouths lightly with rubber stoppers, immerse 
to the shoulders in a kettle of cold water. Boil twenty 
minutes, or better, steam thirty minutes in ordinary steam- 
er. Push in the stoppers firmly, cool the bottles rapidly, 
and keep in a refrigerator. Warm each bottle just before 
using. 

BEEF TEA WITH ACID. 

One and one half pounds of beef from the round, cut 
in small pieces; same quantity ice broken small. Let it 
stand in a deep vessel twelve hours; strain thoroughly and 
forcibly through a coarse towel. Boil quickly ten minutes 
in a porcelain vessel. Let cool. Add one half teaspoon- 
ful of acid, or acid phosphate, to a pint. Serve hot or cold. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

One half a cup of coarse oatmeal, three cups boiling 
water, one teaspoonful of salt, and cream. Add oatmeal 
and salt to boiling water, and cook three hours in a double 
boiler. Force through a strainer, dilute with cream, re- 
heat and strain a second time. Serve with salt or sugar. 

CREAMED EQQS. 

J glassful of chicken stock. 4 eggs. 

i glassful of cream. | teaspoonful of salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

Heat together the cream and the stock in a double 
boiler. Beat the eggs without separating, and stir into 
it slowly. Stir until thick, season and serve. This is the 
most nourishing preparation of eggs for an invalid. 



116 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

CREAMED CALF BRAINS. 

Parboil the brains. Blanch them and cut into small 
pieces. Put into a double boiler one tablespoonful of 
butter and a scant one of flour. Add half a pint of cream. 
Put in slowly the beaten yelk of one egg, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper, add the brains, cook three 
minutes, and serve on toast. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, and add 
to that half a pint of cream, a little salt, pepper, and celery 
salt and the meat from half a chicken which has been put 
through the meat grinder. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Lean loin of mutton, one and one half pounds, includ- 
ing bone. Three pints of water. Boil gently until tender, 
throwing in a little salt and onion, according to taste. 
Pour out broth into basin; when cold, skim off the fat. 
Warm up when wanted. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Chop up a small chicken, or half of a large fowl. Boil 
it, bones and all, with a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, 
a tablespoonful of rice, and a crust of bread in one quart 
of water, for an hour, skimming it from time to time. 
Strain through a colander. 

EOO LEMONADE. 

Beat one egg with one tablespoonful of sugar until very 
light; stir in three tablespoonfuls cold water and the juice 
of a small lemon. Fill the glass with pounded ice and 
drink through a straw. 



SIMPLE DISHES FOR THE SICK. 117 

CREAM SOUP. 

Take one quart of good stock, chicken or mutton; cut 
one onion into quarters, slice three potatoes very thin and 
put into the stock with a small piece of mace. Boil gently 
for an hour. Then strain out the onion and mace. The 
potatoes should by this time have dissolved in the stock. 
Add one pint of milk, a very little corn flour to make it 
about as thick as cream, and a little butter. This soup 
may be made with milk instead of stock, if a little cream 
is used with it. 

WINE WHEY. 

Put two pints of new milk in a saucepan and stir over 
a clear fire until nearly boiling. Then add one gill (two 
wineglassfuls) of sherry and simmer a quarter of an hour, 
skimming off the curd as it rises. Add one tablespoonful 
more of sherry and skim again for a few minutes. Strain 
through coarse muslin. May use two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice instead of wine if desired. 

JUNKET. 

Take one half pint of fresh milk, heated lukewarm. 
Add one teaspoonful essence of pepsin and stir just enough 
to mix. Pour into custard cups and let it stand until 
firmly curded. Serve plain or with sugar and grated nut- 
meg. May add sherry. 

RUM PUNCH. 

White sugar two teaspoonfuls, one egg beaten up. Add 
a large wineglassful warm milk, two to four teaspoonfuls 
Jamaica rum, and a little nutmeg. 



118 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 

MILK AND EQQS. 

Beat milk with salt to taste. Beat white of egg until 
stiff. Add egg to milk and stir. 

CHAMPAGNE WHEY. 

Boil one half pint of milk. Strain through cheesecloth 
and add one wineglass of champagne. 



DAINTY MENUS 

FOR CONVALESCENT PATIENTS. 



Select the daintiest of tray covers and china, and make 
the tray look as attractive as possible in every way. 

No. i. 

Bouillon. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast, 

garnished with parsley. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches, served on lettuce leaf. 

Small Mold Bavarian Cream 

with whipped cream. 



No. 3. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Supreme of Chicken with White Sauce, garnished with 

parsley. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

One Fresh Tomato, garnished with chopped celery or 

Nasturtium leaves. 

Mold of Wine Jelly. 



120 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 



No. 3. 

Broiled Breast of Chicken with drawn butter. 

Creamed Sweetbreads on Toast with peas. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Cup of Delicate Chocolate. 

A Little Whipped Cream, frozen. 



No. 4. 

An Orange cut in half, after being on ice several hours. 

Broiled Sweetbread, garnished. 

Quail on Toast. 

Celery Salad, garnished with celery tops. 

Bread Sticks. 

Pineapple Ice. 



DAINTY MENUS. 121 



No. 5. 

Oyster Soup. 

Fish Coquille in a nest of water cress or parsley. 

Broiled Beef Tenderloin, mushroom sauce. 

Parisienne Potatoes. 

Light Rolls. 

Brandy Peaches. 



No. 6. 

Sweetbread Croquettes with creamed peas. 
Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Celery Salad. 

Chocolate with whipped cream. 

Plain Ice Cream. 



122 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 



No. 7. 

Shredded wheat biscuit toasted and served with 

hot milk or cream. 

(Serve in dainty pitcher.) 

Crisp Breakfast Bacon in parsley. 

Poached Egg on toast. 

Breakfast Cocoa. 



No. 8. 

Fresh Pineapple plugged, sugared; cover in crushed 

ice, and garnish with mint leaves. 

Broiled Breast of Chicken with drawn butter. 

Fresh Tomato (thoroughly chilled) garnished with 

water cress; serve with or without dressing. 

Strawberry Sponge. 



CHAPTER ON MENUS. 



SIMPLE LUNCHEON. 



No. i. 

Sliced Pineapple with crushed ice and sherry. 

Bouillon. 

Oyster Patties. 

Stuffed Lamb Chops with peas. 

Egg Salad. 

Brick Cream and Cakes. 

Coffee. 



No. 2. 

Puree of Asparagus with whipped cream garnish. 

Oysters en Coquille. 

Chicken Croquettes with creamed peas. 

Celery Salad. 

Bavarian Cream. Macaroons. 

Coffee. 



124 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 



No. 3. 

Tomato Puree. 

Mushrooms a l'Algonquin on Toast. 

Broiled Fillets. Potatoes en Surprise. 

Hollandaise Punch. 

Pepper Timbals. 

Chicken Salad. 

Individual Orange Ice with Cakes. 

Coffee. 



No. 4. 

Grape Fruit. 

Bouillon. 

Fish Croquettes with white sauce. Potatoes. 

Broiled Quail on Toast with asparagus. 

Hollandaise Punch. 

Little Pigs in Blankets (Sweetbreads). 

Waldorf Salad. 

Individual Ices and Cakes. 

Coffee. 



CHAPTER ON MENUS. 125 



No. 5- 

Large Pink Grapes served in crushed ice with sheny wine. 

Lobster Cutlets with bechamel sauce. 

Broiled Grouse. Potatoes en Surprise with oyster sauce. 

Victoria Punch. 

Croquettes of French Peas with sauce. 

Salad a la Jardin. 

Individual Brick. Cake. 

Coffee. 



No. 6. 

Oyster Bisque. 

Fish Croquettes with Potatoes. 

Broiled Quail. Saratoga Chips. Asparagus. 

Punch. 

Supreme of Chicken with bechamel sauce. 

Green Grape Salad. 

Ice Cream with Brandied Fruit. Cakes. 

Coffee. 



126 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 



INFORMAL DINNER. 



No. i. 

Salted Almonds. Olives. 

Chicken Gumbo. 

Fish Pudding. Parisienne Potatoes. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. Croquettes of Peas. 

Asparagus, and Stuffed Sweet Potatoes. 

Celery Salad. 

Charlotte Russe, or Ices. 

Coffee. 



No. 2. 

Salted Almonds, Pickles, and Celery. 

St. Germain Soup. 

Broiled Pompano. Potatoes au Gratin. 

Grouse or Pheasant. Asparagus. Peas. 

Nut and Celery Salad. 

Fig Pudding with fancy sauce. 



INFORMAL DINNER. 127 



No. 3. 

Salted Pecans. Stuffed Olives. 

Consomme. Croutons. 

Baked Fish. Duchess Potatoes. Beaten Biscuit. 

Roast Fillet of Beef. Brussels Sprouts. Stuffed Tomatoes. Rolls. 

Cucumber and Celery Salad. Wafers. 

Baked Caramel Custard. Cake. 

Coffee. 



No. 4. 

Salted Almonds. Mints. 

Frozen Fruit. 

Cream of Celery Soup. Bread Sticks. 

Oyster Croquettes. French Fried Potatoes. Beaten Biscuit. 

Broiled Quail or Broiled Chicken Breast with Mushrooms. 

Asparagus Tips. Stuffed Sweet Potatoes. Rolls. 

Green Grape and Nut Salad. Wafers. 

Sultana Roll and Claret Sauce. Cake. 

Coffee. 



128 THE BLUE RIBBON COOK BOOK. 



No. 5. 

Salted Pecans. Mints. 

Grape Fruit. 

Cream of Pea Soup. Buttered Toast. 

Salpicon of Lobster in Patty Shells. 

Lamb Chops a la Maintenon. Parisienne Potatoes. Hot Rolls. 

Sweet Bread, Cucumber and Celery Salad. Cheese Sticks. 

Montrose Pudding with sauce. Cakes. 

Coffee. 



No. 6. 

Salted Almonds. Mints. 
Pineapple Sherbet — Creme de menthe Cherries. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. Crackers. 

Soft Shell Crabs. Beaten Biscuit. Cucumbers. 

Stuffed Peppers. Rolls. Peas. 

Pineapple and Nut Salad. Cheese Wafers. 

Nesselbrode Pudding. Cakes. 

Coffee. 



DINNEE. 129 

DINNER. 
No. i. 

Salted Almonds. Maron Glace. 

Blue Points on Half Shell. 

Consomme. 

Lobster Timbals with lobster sauce. 

Fillet of Beef. Parisienne Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Victoria Punch. 

Stuffed Quail. Croquettes of Peas with white sauce. 

Stuffed Mushrooms. 

Celery Salad. 

Fancy Ices and Cakes. 

Coffee. 

No. 2. 

Blue Points on Half Shell. 

Consomme. 

Stuffed Lobster. 

Fillet of Beef. Creamed Cauliflower. Potatoes. 

Roman Punch. 

Broiled Grouse with Asparagus. 

Sweetbread Croquettes 

with peas. 

Green Grape Salad. 

Fancy Ices and Cakes. 

Coffee. 



130 



THE BLUE EIBBON COOK BOOK. 



No. 3. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Cream of Celery Soup with whipped cream garnish. 

Lobster a la Newburg. 

Venison Steaks. Asparagus. 

Roman Punch. 

Sweetbread a la Victoria, allemande sauce. Peas. 

Salad a la Jardin, in turnips. 

Sultana Roll Ice with claret sauce. Cakes. 

Coffee. 



No. 4. 



Caviare on Toast. 

Consomme. 

Lobster Timbals. 

Fillet of Beef. Stuffed Sweet Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Fruit Punch. 

Pheasant. Potatoes en Surprise with sauce. 

Stuffed Mushrooms. 

Waldorf Salad. 

Fancy Ices and Cake. 

Coffee. 



DINNER. 131 

No. 5. 

Salted Nuts. Mints. 

Anchovy Eggs. 

Oyster Bisque. Crackers. 

Baked Fish. Potatoes. Cucumbers. Bread. 

Stuffed Chicken Leg. Peas. Hot Rolls. 

Victoria Punch. 

Individual Fillet with Mushrooms. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. Rolls. 

Green Pepper and Grape Fruit Salad. Cheese Ramequins. 

Brandy Peaches with Vanilla Cream. Cakes. 

Coffee. 

No. 6. 

Fresh Strawberries with caps, 
served on shaved ice, powdered sugar (served in paper cups). 

Bouillon. Croutons. 

Soft Shell Crabs or Lobster Cutlets. Cucumbers in cucumber 

cups. Beaten Biscuit. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette, sauce. Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Hollandaise Punch. 

Broiled Chicken. French Pea« Croquettes. Broiled 

Tomatoes. Hot Rolls. 

Water Cress and Orange Salad. Cheese Sticks. 

Individual Ices. Cakes. 

Coffee. 



MEMORANDA. 



The following blank pages are intended for recording 
recipes that may hereafter come to notice, or for any data 
on those contained herein. 



Housekeepers' Directory 



PiflB 

W. It. Benedict Tea and Coffee Co 134 

Norman & Taylor 134 

Jennie C. Benedict & Co 134 

Ballard & Ballard Co 135 

Kentucky Refining Company 135 

Falls City Meat Market 136 

A. Booth & Company 136 

Denunzio Fruit Co 137 

H. J. Heinz Co 137 

Keisker & Son 138 

Dolfinger & Co 138 

Louisville Gas Company 139 

Cameo Baking Powder 139 

Kaufman-Straus Co 140 

Walter N. Escott 140 

Anita Spring Water Co 141 

C B. Thompson 141 

Jos. Walton & Co 142 

Bridgeford & Co 142 

Mammoth Grocery Co 143 



. H Wmtbut 5tea 



BOTH PHONES 
907 



A Teas, Coffees, 
^M^ Spices, Extracts, 
^P Baking Powder 



FINEST OLIVE OIL 
IN THE MARKET 



629 Jffmtrtlf Abpttup 



NORMAN 
& TAYLOR 


Carpets, Mattings, 
Rugs, Linoleums, 
Lace Curtains 
and Portieres $& % 

Newest and Best 


# 


520 and 522 Fourth Ave. 



GERMAN FAVORS A SPECIALTY 



DINNER AND TALLY CARDS 



\mnxz <&. ^tutSdci & ®0. 



HIGH-GRADE CATERERS 
| AND CAFE' 



I 



612 FOURTH AVENUE 



LOUISVILLE, KY. 



134 



Bread is the Staff of Life,' 

THEREFORE HAVE IT GOOD. 





Always Reliable. 



+> > 

bo -a 






H =3 

■5 pa 



NINE REASONS 



Why "SNOWFLAKE" OIL 

Is leading Baking, Frying, and Cooking Oil in every market 




Surpasses all others for purity. 
Neutral in flavor. 

Only oil kept up to highest standard. 
White and always uniform. 
Free from chemical treatment. 
Low priced compared with quality. 
An absolutely pure vegetable fat. 
Keeps sweet the year around. 
Every barrel the same. 




5fo?°SsfN R G E "SNOWFLAKE 



»» WRITE FOR PRICE 
AND SAMPLE. 



Mad* only by KENTUCKY REFINING COMPANY, Incorporated, Louisville, Ky. 



138 



BOTH PHONES 251 



352 SECOND STREET 



Falls City Meat Market 



J. F. SULLIVAN, Manager 



FRESH AND SMOKED MEATS, 
PURE LEAF LARD, FRUITS, VEGE- 
TABLES, AND DRESSED POULTRY 

LOUISVILLE PACKING COMPANVS MEATS ONLY 



Highest Medals and Awards in England, 
France, Germany, and the United States 

A. Booth and Company 

(incorporated) 
Successor to 

THE CHASE-DAVIDSON CO. 



Oysters, Fish, 
Poultry and Game 



329-331 Third Avenue, 



Louisville, Ky. 



136 






Jos. Denimzio 
Fruit Co. '- 




Commission merchants 



"We handle every- 
thing that grows " 






118-120 West Jefferson Street 



>^£ 
'^• 4 



IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS 
OF 

FOREIGN, TROPICAL AND 
CALIFORNIA 

Fruits, Produce 
and Vegetables 

LOUISVILLE, KY. 



After an experience extending over several years in 
the use of the Pure Food Products and Condiments 
prepared by 

H. J. HEINZ CO. 

I am pleased to heartily endorse them as being superior 
in quality and thoroughly reliable. 

Jennie C. {Benedict 



137 




HAVE YOUR HOME 

BEAUTIFUL AND ATTRACTIVE 

FURNITURE 



Representing all the 

STYLISH DESIGNS AND FINISHES 



TN our splendid new warerooms, conveniently 
■*■ situated at No. 586 Fourth Avenue, we 
have on exhibition a most complete and select 
assortment of beautiful goods. All the stand- 
ard schools of design are represented and the 
widest range of prices is offered. From staple 
kitchen furniture, our stock grades up to the 
most exquisite creations in mahogany. : : : : : : 



KEISKER'S 

LOUISVILLE'S LEADING FURNITURE STORE 




Established 1863. 

J. DOLFINGER ® CO. 

584 FOURTH AVENUE LOUISVILLE. KV. 




CHINA and GLASSWARE 

From the best and most reliable manufacturers 
of Europe and America 






FINE 
CANDE 
SHADE 
ARTIST 

Styles 

We c 
and inspe 

Our m 
FURNIS 
basement 
1 keepers. 


LAMPS AND GLOBES, 
LABRAS AND CANDLE 
S, BRIC-A-BRAC AND 
1C NOVELTIES, 
uid Prices always correct, 
srdially invite correspondence 
ction of our magnificent stock, 
idem and up-to-date HOUSE- 
HING DEPARTMENT in 

is most fascinating to house- 
All the latest Kitchen, Pantry, 


and Dining Room Novelties , 
' in this department. 

We make a specialty of 

COFFEE MACHINES, 
CHAFING DISHES, 
BAKING DISHES. 
ALUMINUM 
COOKING VESSELS 

and other things not to be found 

HIGH-GRADE TABLE O 
AND SILVER-PLATED 


ire found 
elsewhere. 

JTLERY 
WARE. 



138 



LOUISVILLE GAS 

(SOS) COMPANY < 



1 






BctTRo/rHr^ 


V' 


WSH0 


•;i aspH":'|| 


, 


1 -'pn*(|n -sTarr mm'x. "It-it , 

$ Bill iff:' 


i 



Makes the cleanest, purest 
gas of uniform quality and 
low pressure, most suitable 
for 

GAS RANGES 

The Gas Range is the most 
useful invention of modern 
times for economical cook- 
ing. 



" The Purest and Best" 



(ameo 

BAKING POWDER 



If your grocer does not keep it 
he can send to 

THOMSON & TAYLOR, 

Michigan Avenue, 
CHICAGO 



139 




High -Grad e 
Table Linens 



■MEXT to the tempting viands that 
may grace the banquet or luncheon 
table comes the snowy linens upon 
which they are spread. This line of 
goods has been a feature in our store 
ever since its very beginning. Our importations include the handsomest 
and best products of the world's most famous linen manufacturers. 



Sfaufmatt-jg>tnut0 ©0. 



We promptly fill every mail order, 
and quickly respond to every letter 
of inquiry. Satisfaction guaranteed. 



633 to 549 Fourth Avenue, 



LOUISVILLE, KY. 



For 



Artistic Paper Hanging 
Pictures and Frames 



SEE 



WALTER N. ESCOTT, 



519 FOURTH AVENUE. 



• Agent for]- 



EASTMAN KODAK CO. 

and Dealer in 
ARTIST MATERIALS 



140 



Anita Spring Water 

Carbonated and Natural 



The lightest, purest, most delightful of Table Waters. 
Unequaled as a remedy in indigestion, in all kidney »»«Vo. 
and bladder troubles and alcoholic excesses. When ^|» 
carbonated — the most sparkling and beautiful 
carbonated waters. 



It 



DEPOT OF SUPPLY 

Weissinger-Gaulbert Building, Third and Broadway 

ANITA SPRING WATER CO. 



Decorations a Specialty Both Phones 1050 



C. B. THOMPSON 



9 5 Florist 5 5 



STORE5{«g ftStVSS Start LOUISVILLE, KY. 



141 



Jos. Walton & Co. 



(INCORPORATED) 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN 



Genuine 



"First Pool" Pittsburg 



COAL 



MAIN OFFICE, BOTH PHONES 35 Yard and Elevator 

213 Third Street Floyd and Fulton Streets 

W. C. WILLIAMS, Treasurer and Manager 




Many "Ranges 

are good. 
Some are better, 

but 

ECONOMISTS 

ARE THE BEST 

More than 150 different 
sizes and styles. ^» ^» ^* 
Suitable for any purpose. 



Bridgeford & Co. 

501 West Main Street, 
LOUISVILLE, KY. 



142 




u 
it 



Good Things to Eat" and 
Nothing but the Best" 



w 



E solicit the patronage 

of all who prefer 

quality in what they 

eat and drink. The 

largest and most up-to-date 

Fancy Grocery south of the 

Ohio River V V V V 



MAMMOTH GROCERY CO. 

IMPORTING GROCERS and WINE MERCHANTS 
LOUISVILLE, KY. 



J43 



