CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 




David Albert Hauck 
Endowment 



RM 2i9.F7°6"'"'""""'"'""-"'"^ 



Food for the invalid; the convalescent; 




3 1924 012 176 826 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924012176826 



FOOD FOR THE INVALID; 

THE CONVALESCENT; 

THE DYSPEPTIC ; 

AND THE GOUTY, 



FOOD FOR THE INVALID ; 

THE CONVALESCENT; 

THE Dyspeptic ; 

AND THE GOUTY. 



J. MILNER FOTHERGILL, M.D, Edin., 

MEMBER OF THE KOTAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON. 

SENIOa ASSISTANT PHYSICIAN TO THE CITY OF LONDON HOSPITAL FOH DISEASES OF THE 

CHEST (VICTORIA PARK). 

ASSISTANT PHYSICIAN TO THE \VE3T LONDON HOSPITAL. 

ASSOCIATE FELLOW OV THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF PHILADELPHLi 



" May good digestion wait on appetite ; and health on both.' 



MACMILLAN AND CO. v 

1880. 

The Right of Tra/aslation amd Reproduction is Reserved, 



R. Ci-AY> Sons, and Taylor, 

bREAD STREET HILL, EX. 



TO 

THE SHADE OF EDWAED GIBBON, 
@.f)£ fl^tstorian. 

WHOSE GASTEONOMIC PEOCLmTIES 

HAVE PRESERVED FOE US THE FEASTS OF ANCIENT ROME, 

THI& WORK 



BY 

THE AIJTHOE. 



PREFACE. , 

This little book came into the world rather oddly. 
Speaking to Mr. Macmillan one day ahout printing a 
pamphlet on "Food for Invalids," for private use, 
he suggested that it had better take the form of a 
book: if such a thing were useful to me it would be 
useful to others ! Busy practitioners will probably 
find it very useful, and save them much time to boot. 
Invalids and their friends will also, in all probability, 
find it of service to them; as the initials attached to 
each article of food will guide them in their choice. 
A few preliminary remarks on food and its destina- 
tion, and on digestion, add, it is believed, to its 
general utility. I have to thank Dr. H. C. Wood, of 
Philadelphia, for his co-operation. 

Such a work, in addition to original matter, has 
involved the selection from already existing recipes. 
Plain and simple dishes were essential to my scheme : 
therefore Cre-fydd's Family Fare and Mrs. Frederick's 
Hints to Housewives peculiarly recommended themselves, 
while many general observations in Mrs. Frederick's 
excellent work seemed of especial value. To the 
writers of these books I acknowledge my obligations. 

23, Somerset Street, 

PoKTMAN Square, W., 
1880. 



CONTENTS. 



PAqE 
iNTEOpUCnON 1 



The Invalid in Bed 21 

Nursery Food 24 

Op Food Generally 25 

Recipis .29 



FOOD FOR THE INVALID, 



INTKODUCTIOK 

The attention now paid to our food is not a mere 
fashion. Our increasing wealth permits of organisms 
being reared to maturity which must have perished 
under earlier and more trying conditions. It also leads 
to much of what is either biliousness or gout, as the 
case may be, viz., conditions where the system is taxed 
by the accumulation of waste matter derived from the 
albuminoids of our food. What are albuminoids we 
shall shortly see ! The excessive demand upon the 
nervous system in the battle of modern life is leading 
to much visceral disturbance, of which dyspepsia is 
only a part ; and we are beginning to learn to see that 
derangement of the liver and of the kidneys is a not 
xmcommon outcome of mental worry. The relations of 
mental worry to diabetes are well and generally recog- 
nised. Then, again, there is a growing incapacity to 



2 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

digest fat which is truly alarming, and which has given 
a distinct prominence to artificial digestive agents. 
Beyond all this there is the effect of illness and acute 
disease upon the digestion to be considered and taken 
into account. Consequently there is a distinct necessity 
for a hook devoted to the food for persons who are out 
of health, or whose digestive powers are feeble. How 
far the writer is competent to write such a book it is 
for the readers to decide ; but the subject of food is 
necessarily one which attracts the attention of all who 
are specially devoted to that division of medicine, viz., 
the treatment of disease. By a suitable dietary many 
maladies may be avoided ; by appropriate food many 
troubles, as indigestion, biliousness, gout, and diabetes, 
may be greatly alleviated, and in a number of cases 
even cured. An immense amount of human misery is 
due to an unsuitable dietary. Time has sanctioned our 
present eating arrangements, and it is almost impiety in 
the eyes of many to impugn our existing culinary com- 
binations. The ghosts of many devoted cooks, who 
have given themselves heart and soul to the task of 
providing what is attractive and toothsome, still hover 
around' us ; and must be treated with respect. I do not 
wish to say one word that would give offence to these 
departed worthies, whose devotion and ahomdon have 
earned for them imperishable reputations, and the grati-i 
tude of hungry humanity. But it is just possible to 
suggest that their guides were the palate first and the 
digestion next. They lived in twilight ; and the day- 
break of physiological knowledge is doubtless disturb- 
ing to them. The light of chemistry and physiology is 
causing a flutter among them. Our food-combinations 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

now are to be indicated by our advancing knowledge of 
the wants of the organism, the requh-ements of the tissues, 
and the effects of modern life upon the viscera. Our 
dietaries, in other words, must become more scientific. 

In the present transition state of our information 
about food in relation to the needs of the body, it is 
necessary to select from our extant cookery-books what 
is required, so far as is possible. That is no easy task 
to essay : but a beginning must be made, and errors 
and omissions may be corrected and amended in future 
editions, and perhaps by other writers. It is impossible 
to appraise correctly and with any approach to accuracy 
the amount of information possessed by each reader ; so 
it appears that the most prudent course is to write as if 
the subject were new to all : if in so doing any umbrage 
is given to those who do know something about food, an 
apology is tendered to them at the outset. 

For what do we require food? (1) In order to 
maintain the body temperature, or to manifest force, 
i.6. to exert ourselves in work or other form of muscular 
activity ; (2) and to build up our tissues in growth, and 
repair them in adult life. Tor these ends different 
forms of food are required. Just as there is in a 
steam-engine the metal framework and the coals which 
heat the water into steam which sets the metal machine 
into motion ; so there are in the body the tissues and 
the fuel The bony framework, the skeleton, is moved 
by muscles, which in turn are set in action by the 
nerves. These correspond to the metallic portions of 
the engine, which are not themselves consumed, but 
wear out and need repair. The fuel of the body, like 
that of the steam-engine, is hydrocarbonaceous. That 

B 2 



4 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

is, it consists of hydrogen and carbon, which readily 
unite with oxygea This is the fuel of the body jjar 
eaxellence. 

The vegetable world builds up these hydrocarbons ; 
the animal world burns them by oxidation. Animals 
produce carbonic acid gas, as the result of the com- 
bustion of their food ; vegetables deoxidise this carbonic 
acid and store up carbonaceous material, and give off 
free oxygen. At an early period of the earth's history 
the atmosphere was highly charged with carbonic acid 
gas. A luxuriant vegetable growth cleared the air of 
carbonic acid gas tOl a warm-blooded animal became a 
possibility. The vegetable world is practically without 
motion; but it stores up the material which renders 
motion in animals possible. And thus they live side 
by side with each other; one could not live without 
the other. The animal could manifest no force without 
oxygen ; without the animal to produce carbonic acid 
the vegetable world would perish. Then from water 
is derived the hydrogen compounds. Just as the plant 
takes the carbon of carbonic acid and gives off the 
oxygen ; so it takes the hydrogen of water and gives off 
the oxygen. From these two — carbon and hydrogen — 
are built up starch, sugar, and fat. These then are 
the hydrocarbonaceous elements which essentially con- 
stitute our food — ^the equivalent of the coal in the 
steam-engine. 

Then there are the tissues of the body. The essential 
feature in the tissues of the body is that they contain 
nitrogen. Liebig told us that the peculiarity of nitrogen 
is that, when in combination with other elements, it 
interferes with their capacity to unite with oxygen. 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

When in comTDination, with carbon and hydrogen, they 
do not unite readily with oxygen, as they do when 
the nitrogen is not present. The tissues then heing 
nitrogenised do not themselves bum; while oxidising 
processes go on in them. The metal work of the 
engine is not consumed by the fire from the oxidis- 
ing coal ; in health the tissues of the body are not 
consumed by the heat produced by the oxidising hydro- 
carbons. It is well for the reader to grasp this broad 
law fully ; for this division of foods is the basis of aU 
we know about what a dietary ought to consist of. It 
should contain hydrocarbonaceous material for the 
working of the body ; and a sufficiency of nitrogenised 
material for the growth and repair of the tissues. 
Beyond this, phosphorus for the nervous system, iron 
for the blood, hydrochloric acid for the gastric jiiice, 
and alkalies for the liver, are rec[uisite in limited quan- 
tities. From the salt (chloride of sodium) of our food 
we get at once the flavouring agent acceptable to the 
palate ; and the hydrochloric acid for the gastric juice 
and the soda for the formation of the bHe-salt in the 
liver. For health various salts, of potash, soda, and 
lime are requisite, which are furnished in the different 
articles of our dietary. Without these latter disease 
would fasten upon us, as seen in the scurvy, which 
was the terror of old navigators ; and which is cured 
by vegetables at once and as by magic. The addition 
of the potato to our food-list has done away with the 
diseases due to a salt-meat dietary in winter, and which 
made the fast of Lent, when vegetables were the chief 
Article of food, so desirable after the long winter on 
salted provisions. The sour-kraut and the pickled 



6 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

gherkins of the Continent were of cardinal importance 
before the introduction of the potato dethroned them, 
and left them on a lower platform of utility. 

There are, too, spices and condiments which are 
agreeable to the palate ; which keep up the appetite, and 
prevent too much disengagement of gas in the alimen- 
tary canal during the processes of digestion and assimi- 
lation. Such then are the chief constituents of our 
food. We can now trace them along in their career in 
the body. Hydrocarbons are quickly disposed of; a 
certain surplusage being stored up as fat, on which the 
body can live in times of starvation. The average 
amount of this garnered store is equal to about ten 
days' combustion : i.e. the body can live ten days upon 
itself. Starch is converted by the action of the saliva 
and the juice of the pancreas (the sweetbread) into 
sugar, and is stored up from each meal in the liver as 
glycogen. Glycogen is an insoluble form of sugar, 
which is given off gradually according to the body re- 
quirements, from the liver ; and burnt to maintain the 
body temperature and to generate force. Fat is burnt in 
precisely the same way ; and is a very concentrated 
form of fuel. In very cold regions large quantities of 
fat are required to maintain a body temperature com- 
patible with life. Fat is found as fat, butter, and oil 
These hydrocarbons are, then, the fuel of the body par 
excellence. They are, however, also essential to healthy 
tissues ; and a deficiency of fat is one factor in the pro- 
duction of the depraved form of tissue known as tubercle. 
The most dangerous and intractable form of phthisis is 
that which commences with a loss of the power to 
digest fat. 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

Then there are the albuminoid or nitrogenised 
divisions of our food. These are requisite for tissue 
growth and repair; but in their oxidation a certain 
amount of heat is produced. Albumen is found largely 
in the vegetable world. All seeds contain albumen. 
The white of all eggs, (birds, reptiles, and fishes), is very- 
pure albumen. Albumen contains carbon, hydrogen, 
some oxygen, and its essential characteristic, nitrogen, 
with a little sulphur. It is found in various forms as 
albumen ; as caseine in milk, cheese, and the legumes ; 
as the muscular portions of the animal framework, the 
viscera, and the skin. It is a complex substance 
chemically. When swallowed, albuminoids are digested 
in the stomach mainly, and pass into the blood, from 
whence they reach the tissues. - As said before, these 
albuminoid substances containing nitrogen do not 
readily oxidise. The Uver is the furnace in which 
waste and surplus albuminoids are burnt by oxidation. 
When sufficiently oxidised, they give the bile acids, 
and the solids of the urine (not being salts) as Uthates 
and urea. Now it is the imperfect oxidation of this 
albuminoid surplusage which produces biliousness and 
gout, i.e. gout in its widest sense, viz. a waste-laden 
condition of blood, more properly described by the word 
lithiasis. Gout, a term once used to designate a disease 
of the joints, has now a much wider range of appHoa- 
tion; and, as "irregular" and "suppressed" gout, has 
come to be used, in its broad sense, to indicate a 
condition of the blood. In biliousness the blood is 
surcharged with bile-salts, of albuminoid descent and 
nitrogenised lineage ; just as much as the lithic acid, or 
Lithates, which are known and spoken of now as "gout- 



8 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

poison." Such being the origin of these imperfectly 
oxidised waste matters, it is ohvious that in the treat- 
ment of biliousness and gout alike, it is essential to 
cut down the albuminoid elements of the food to the 
minimum of tissue wants. As long as these are in 
excess in the food, so long will the conditions remain 
little affected by medicines. 

Taraxacum for the liver, and potash for the kidneys, 
are all very well ; but a correct and intelligently designed 
dietary is the main thing. When of old the doctor sagely 
shook his head and said, " Liver and kidneys," he was 
not the fool it has been recently the fashion to regard him. 
He saw through a glass darkly, but nevertheless cor- 
rectly. He was in the dark, true ; but daybreak was not 
far off. Though our knowledge about the history of 
albuminoids in the body is far from what we could 
wish it to be, the matter is being rapidly cleared up ; 
and especially is this true of the medical aspect of the 
subject. In excess of albuminoid waste do we find the 
cause of much of the maladies to which adult life is 
subject. Why do we systematically eat more albu- 
minoid food than we require? it may pertinently be 
asked. The answer, " Because these substances are 
agreeable to the palate," is not a complete answer. The 
albuminoid waste in the blood gives us the subjective 
sensations of energy, of " feeling up to the mark," of 
being equal to work, which are so pleasant to all. Com- 
pare the energy of the carnivoroxis animals with the 
comparative lethargy of herbivorous creatures. This 
sensation of capacity and energy is, however, bought 
with a price ; and its Nemesis is found in biliousness 
and gout. Dominie Sampson was another man after 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

Meg Merrilees had compelled him to eat some of the 
contents of her stew-pot ; and liebig compares the 
mental attitude of three persons — one of whom has had 
a substantial meal of meat; a second who has dined 
on fish ; and the third who has had some bread and an 
onion. The beef of the British warrior has always been 
coimted as an element in his bravery. There are, then, 
two very potent reasons why we eat too much albu- 
minous food; one, because it is pleasant to eat, and, 
another, because it produces an agreeable mental con- 
dition. But when we have " too much of a good 
thing," and the blood is surcharged with waste, then the 
mental attitude is unpleasantly affected ; there is the 
irascibility of gout, which is not merely the effect of 
pain ; and the melancholy of biliousness. Melancholia 
is "black-bile," and preserves the fossil idea of low 
spirits being due to " bile-poison " in the blood. This is 
true, so far as it goes, but melancholy, or the condition 
of " low spirits," is not due solely to " bile poison." 

Probably the following disquisition is a little over 
;the heads of some readers, but it cannot be omitted. 
Without it the whole of the attempt to make our 
cookery-books more scientific would end in nothing. 
The necessity for more accurate knowledge on this 
subject is seen in the irrational practice which obtains 
in the sick-room. A generation ago a sick person 
would have been regarded as strangely neglected if 
calf s foot jelly had not been provided ; now the patient 
must be dosed with beef-tea, the stronger and more 
concentrated the better : and yet neither has a high 
food-value. In fact, there is little force-producing 
material (hydrocarbon) in either. Twenty years ago 



10 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

a number of books on food appeared, in ■whicli starch, 
sugar, and fat were described as having no food-value 
at all; while albumen had the full 100 per cent, of 
food-value credited to it. A little real physiological 
knowledge soon reversed matters; and starch, which 
used to be sneered at, and which is stUl spoken of 
disrespectfully by persons who do not know 'better, 
is taking its true place. From starch to sugar, and 
from sugar to fat : that is the natural history of the 
fuel-food of man. "Bile-poison" and "gout-poison" 
are the avenging fates of a dietary too rich in albu- 
minoids. In most persons the system is not readily 
deranged, and excess is not swiftly followed by punish- 
ment ; while in others the punishment follows close on 
the heels of the offence. These latter are quickly 
taught the relations of cause and effect; a rich meal 
means a bilious attack next day ; a good dinner with 
subacid wines a red-hot great toe at no distant period. 
But, sad to say, the voice of the avenging fate is only 
audible to a very fine ear, and is never heard by 
ordinary persons; they go on eating and drinking, 
guided, or rather led on, by their palate and their 
appetite, which latter they whet with bitters. But in 
the far distance there is "gout-poison" and "bile- 
poison"; the danger-signals are up, but they are not 
heeded until they have been passed : and then these 
individuals become wise after the event. It is a 
pleasant course they foUow : why meet trouble half- 
way ? Events that are in the distance may not happen. 
Quite so ! The feet of the avenging deities are shod 
with wool ! Their footstep is noiseless, or niearly so ; 
why heed it ? It is just this seeing evils far ahead, and 



INTEODUCTION. 11 

then learning to avoid them, which constitutes the 
physician's knowledge as to the production of the 
maladies due to excess of albuminoid waste. Without 
this he is a poacher, a trespasser on the cook's domain ; 
an intruder, who adds impudence to his dishonesty 
when he ventures to write a cookery-hook ; or perhaps, 
as regards a large portion of it, to compile one. 

As it is possible that the statement, that "bile- 
poison," like "gout-poison," is of albuminoid descent 
may be challenged by those who, carried away by the 
fact that food rich in fat and sugar gives rise to " bilious 
attacks," it may be as well to append the chemical 
formulae of the different substances, for the information 
of those interested in the matter. As they are taken 
from Prof. Michael Foster's standard work, A Text Book 
of Physiology, they are beyond suspicion of doubt as to 
correctness. 

Albumen consists of from 






H 


N 


C 


s 


20-9 


6-9 


15-4 


52-7 


0-8 


23-5 


7-3 


16-5 


54-5 


2-0, 



to 

In addition to this, there are small quantities of salts, 
of soda and potash, the chief being common salt. 

Of the bile series, cholic acid has a formula 
H.C^H3,0, + N,0, 
while glycocholic acid has a formula 

Taurocholic acid has the formula 



12 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

containing nitrogen and also sulphur. All evidently 
derivatives from all)umen. The forms in which waste 
albuminoids pass out by the renal secretion are as uric 
acid and urea. Uric acid has a formula 

This is what is recognised as "gout poison." It is 
found in the body in union with soda, magnesia, and 
ammonia ; and as urate of soda is the material of the 
chalk-stones found in the joints of the gouty and on the 
ears. The more advanced and more oxidised form of 
waste is the more soluble urea, which has a formula 

(N.H^,CO. 

These renal solids are admitted to be of albuminoid 
descent by aU ; but our accurate information about the 
liver is of too recent a date for even the bulk of the pro- 
fession, to say nothing of the laity, to be acquainted with 
the bile acids which are found in union with soda. 

This disquisition may perhaps not be interesting to 
the bulk of readers, but there are a number who will 
appreciate it. With a large number of persons the 
avoidance of these albuminoid elements is a matter of 
cardinal importance. It is with the intent of avoiding 
excessive albuminoid waste that the dietaries arranged 
here consist so little of "brown meats." When the 
convalescent has got so far that he can eat and digest 
a beefsteak with oyster sauce, he is clearly off the sick- 
list ; and the fare of ordinary cookery-books once more 
interests him. For a certain period, however, he is 
safer with the articles given here, as being more easily 
digestible. It is not contended that in chemical 



INTEODUCTION. 13 

composition the flesh of fish differs from that of heasta ; 
it is a question of degree. A meal of fish gives less 
albuminoid waste than necessarily results from a 
meal of brown meats. Fish is much more largely 
water than " flesh." The amount of albuminoid matter 
required for the repair of the tissues of the body, to 
meet daily wear and tear, is very smaU. Physiologists 
have not yet determined it with any approach to ac- 
curacy ; but it is certain enough that it does not neces- 
sitate anything like the amount of meat" which is con- 
sumed by most persons. Where the system has been 
much reduced by acute disease, as fever, then a liberal 
dietary is required for the rebuildiag of the tissues. The 
appetite is ravenous and the digestion good. Just as 
children when rapidly growing require a dietary in 
which meat is conspicuous; so the convalescent from 
fever must have a dietary rich in albuminoids, in order 
to repair the wasted tissues. But, except under these 
circumstances, our food is rich in albuminoids beyond our 
absolute wants. This is a matter of primary importance, 
and which is never forgotten in the selection of the forms 
of food given hereafter. 

Then as to the question of digestion. In the stomach 
albuminoids alone undergo digestion. If surrounded by 
too much fat the digestion of albuminoids is interfered 
with. Consequently the dyspeptic must avoid many 
dishes given here, which are admirably adapted for a 
gouty person with a good digestion. For good digestion 
mastication is essential. If persons " bolt " their food, 
or from want of teeth cannot properly masticate it, then 
indigestion follows ; because the food is not in a proper 
state for solution when it reaches the stomach. The 



14 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

stomach of man does not, like that of the lobster tribe, 
contain teeth, and so cannot grind and pull to pieces 
the food. If this disintegration has not been accom- 
plished the stomach is unequal to perfect digestion, and 
the digestive act is slow and painful. Brown meats are 
close of fibre, and the fibres are not readily separated, 
a matter of moment in the digestive act. If the fibres 
readUy fall asunder, then the dissolving action of the 
gastric juice is favoured ; but if the meat is in masses, 
it can only act upon the outer surface. In dieting the 
dyspeptic this merely mechanical matter should ever be 
borne in mind. The same fact obtains about wheaten 
bread. The albuminoid matter of wheat is chiefly in 
the form of gluten, which when separated from the rest 
of the flour is a sticky substance. " The grain of wheat 
differs from that of the other cereals principally in the 
peculiar physical characters possessed by its chief nitro- 
genous constituents, and especially gluten, possessing in 
the moist state strongly adhesive properties. These are 
found to be practically of great value in bread-making, 
causing the dough to retain more strongly the carbonic 
acid evolved during fermentation, whereby the bread is 
rendered porous and light ; and this is one of the chief 
reasons why the flour of wheat is preferred for bread- 
making to that of all other grains." — {Food and its 
Adulterations, by Arthur Hill Hassall.) It is this ad- 
hesive quality which gives trouble to the dyspeptic 
about wheaten bread. It does not fall readily to pieces 
in the stomach. Especially is this a source of trouble 
to babies ; and most " baby-foods " consist mainly of 
baked flour. After once being cooked and then again 
being reduced to a finely divided form, wheat flour 



INTRODUCTION. 15 

loses its adhesive quality, i.e. the gluten has become 
changed, and the particles do not adhere together 
as hefore. 

A lady friend of mine who cannot digest with comfort 
a suet pudding as ordinarily prepared, can enjoy that 
suet pudding when her cook has mixed a number of 
fine bread-crumbs into the flour. The delicate stomach 
of the infant, adapted to the digestion of milk, which, 
while it curdles in the stomach, in health, rapidly dis- 
solves again, is unequal to the violent movements set 
up by particles which do not readily dissolve. The 
infant cries with the pain of the digestive act when 
ordinary bread is put into its mUk ; it crows with 
delight when a properly prepared flour is digesting 
easily. For nursery purposes oatmeal and maize flour 
are preferred, because they do not contain this adhesive 
gluten. The miKture of maize flour with wheaten flour 
is then clearly indicated for nursery purposes ; and for 
pastry for those whose digestion is not strong. 

The action of the saliva upon starch is to quickly 
convert it into sugar. Consequently, as sugar is soluble, 
this leaves the nitrogenised portion of the flour to be 
readily acted upon in the stomach. When the saliva is 
defective in an infant, or, at least, insufficient to pro- 
duce the conversion of starch into sugar, it is now 
customary to give the infant " maltiue." Maltine is a 
sweet molasses sort of thing which can be added to the 
baby's food a brief period before it has to be taken, for 
the conversion is quick. The starch being thus largely 
converted into sugar, the digestive act in the stomach 
goes on without painful efforts. The treatment of 
dyspepsia in adults is carried out on precisely the same 



16 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. . 

principles, and baby's food and maltine are equally good 
for them. 

But when wheaten flour is rubbed up with butter, 
or other fat, in a state of fine subdivision, as in the 
preparation of pastry, then the troubles of the stomach 
are aggravated. The fat is not dissolved by the saliva, 
and so it can act little upon the starch. When the 
flour reaches the stomach the solution of the nitrogenised 
materials is impeded by the presence of both fat and 
starch. No wonder then that pastry is carefully shunned 
by dyspeptics ! How far the introduction of a certain 
amount of maize flour to the wheat flour, in making 
pastry, will reduce the labour of the stomach, is a 
matter which must be settled practically by experience. 
The non-adhesive character of maize flour renders it 
very probable that good results will foUow from such 
admixture ! The mechanical part of digestion is then 
a matter to be attended to. 

The stomach does not act upon starch, sugar, or fat ; 
its action is solely upon albuminoids ; and the mixtures 
of fat and flour, as in pastry and sauces, in most dyspep- 
tics, interferes with the action of the gastric juice upon 
the albuminoids ; and consequently their food requires 
to be very plain. That is, the solution of albumin- 
oids must not be hampered by the presence of starch 
and fat. The albuminoid material must, too, be of a 
character that does not present mechanical obstructions 
to be overcome, i.e. it must readily separate into small 
particles; so that the gastric juice may easily act 
upon it. 

Dyspepsia exists in two forms ; which may, and 
commonly are, found together. (1) Defective muscular 



INTRODUCTION. 17 

action, in which case it is necessary to bear in mind 
■what has just been said above, and the food should be 
such as to necessitate little muscular movement of the 
stomach for its disintegration. (2) Defective secretion 
of gastric juice, and imperfect solvent action. In order 
to remedy this state of matters it has been found con- 
venient to avail ourselves of the gastric secretion of 
animals ; and especially the omnivorous pig. Indigestion 
is not a trouble to which the pig is liable, at least so 
far as we know, consequently his gastric juice is pressed 
into the service of man. As pepsin we convert the 
digestive powers of the pig to our purposes. Pepsin 
in the presence of an acid rapidly dissolves albuminoids. 
Given with an acid during the digestive act, it aids 
materially in the solution of the albuminoids; and 
frequently converts the digestive act from a painful to 
a painless process. The conversion of albuminoids 
into a soluble form is also rendered much more perfect 
by the action of this artificial digestive agent. 

In the dietetic management of dyspepsia it is very 
important to ascertain with precision ■\vhere the digestive 
act is at' fault. If this could always be done accurately, 
the management of the case would be comparatively 
easy. As it is, it is rather a sort of " educated guessing," 
and a certain amount of experiment is unavoidable in 
each case. 

Such, then, are the means of rendering easier the 
digestive act, when imperfect, which have been in vogue 
for some few years. Eecent investigation into the 
digestive act has led to some excellent practical results. 
The pancreas, or sweet-bread, whose function until 
recently was scarcely even a matter of speculation, has 

c 



18 FOOD. FOR THE INVALID, 

been found to hold a most important position in di- 
gestion. Its secretion converts starch into sugar; it 
dissolves albuminoids in an alkaline medium; and it 
emulsionises fat, so that the minute particles of fat can 
be taken up by the intestine. The conversion of starch 
into sugar is arrested in the acid stomach; but when 
the food begins to pass out of the stomach a new 
activity is set up. The stomach during the digestive 
act is in active motion, rolling the food in it over and 
over, and so bringing every particle more or less into 
contact with the solvent gastric juice. To prevent 
escape during this period the stomach is closed by two 
rings, one at each outlet ; one at the foot of the gullet, 
the other at the intestinal orifice. This latter outlet 
from the stomach is closed by the pyloric ring. When 
the food in the stomach is pretty well disintegrated 
and dissolved, the more fluid portions pass the partially 
relaxed pyloric ring ; leaving the less digested portions 
to be further acted upon. At last the ring thoroughly 
relaxes, and the contents of the stomach are thrust out 
into the intestines. 

When the contents of the stomach pass into the 
intestine the alkaline bile neutralises the acid from the 
stomach, and makes the food alkaline. Then the action 
of the pancreas comes into play. The starch is rapidly 
converted into sugar once more ; the albuminoids go 
on in their conversion; the fat is emulsioned. The 
digestive act is in full play all around. 

It is clear, then, that imperfect action of the pancreas 
is a most serious matter. It can be stimulated by 
ether ; a fact which has been utilised in practice. But 
the great outcome of our physiological knowledge is 



INTRODUCTION. 19 

the utilising the pancreatic secretion of our useful friend, 
the pig. Dr. William Eoberts, of Manchester, has done 
much to advance the practical aspect of artificial di- 
gestive agents in his Croonian Lectures before the Eoyal 
College of Physicians this year. He has shown that 
it is possible to extract the pancreatic secretion of 
animals in an active potent form. In the presence of 
an acid this solvent is rendered inert — it is kiUed, in 
fact, by an acid. So when the digestive act in the 
stomach is over, or nearly so, he gives this pancreatic 
extract with an alkali, and so guides it safely through 
the acid stomach to the alkaline area beyond in the 
intestine; and so dexterously aids the action of the pan- 
creatic fluid of the body. By the action of this artificial 
pancreatic juice we are able to aid in the digestion of 
fat, a matter of great importance. In the commencing 
sentences I pointed out the seriousness of the growing 
incapacity to assimilate fat, and the troubles which 
follow in its wake. How to render fat readily digestible 
will be one of the main objects aimed at in the subse- 
quent portion of this book. The great advantage of 
cod-liver oil lies in its being the most easily digestible 
of all fats ; and in many cases cod-oil can be digested 
when no other fat, not even as cream, can be assimilated. 
One fact will be very noticeable in the forms of food 
subsequently given, and that is the prominence given 
to fat ; and the practical way of administering it so as 
to be neither objectionable to the palate nor offensive 
to the stomach, and yet, at the same time, in an easily 
assimilable form. Cod-liver oil is not palatable ; and 
where cream can be digested, a wineglassful of cream with 
a teaspoonful of maraschino or cura9oa, is to be preferred. 

c 2 



20 l"OOD FOR THE INVALID.' 

The digestion of fat is one of the most important 
matters of our food. Not only is it a fuel-food, of the 
highest value, but it is also essential to proper healthy 
tissue formation; not only for tissue, growth, but for 
tissue repair. The value of cod-liver oil in the treat- 
ment of phthisis is" now generally recognised ; if fat 
can be assimilated then the spread of the disease may 
often be arrested. By the resort to cod-Hver oil the 
oncome of the disease is stayed. To enable the system 
to digest fat is to avert many maladies. "With fat and 
starch the bilious are comparatively well; for neither 
can produce the nitrogenised bile acids. They, however, 
lead to biliousness indirectly. If a meal be taken in 
excess of the needs of the body, the readily oxidisable 
hydrocarbons are burnt off first in the body ; as said 
before, the combination of nitrogen with other elements 
interferes with their oxidation, Consequently the non- 
oxidis'able matters are left over imperfectly oxidised ; 
and that is why a rich meal renders a bilious person 
" bilious," Sugar and fat do not furnish bile acids, but 
they lead to their production indirectly. 

These bile acids are useful in the emulsionising of fats; 
and probably one factor in the digestibility of cod-liver 
oil is that, being derived from the liver of an animal, it 
contains bile elements. 

Pdjt6 defoie gras is a most digestible food as well as 
toothsome, and so is the imitation form (No. 79), which, 
is very suitable for persons with a weak digestion, from 
the liver elements present in it. The views taken- 
here are heretical to persons of a certain age ; but they 
are not contravened by that fact. 

These preliminary remarks will enable the reader to: 



INTRODUCTION. 21 

understand the rationale of tho choice manifested in 
the different forms of food to be given in detaU here- 
after. It will explain why soups which are pot rich in 
stock are selected in preference to those that are. The 
gelatinous matter of stock, though it is agreeable to the 
palate, is not readily digestible, and furnishes a quantity 
of the albuminoid waste which it is so desirable to avoid. 
If is much better, in place of the stock, to add half- 
a-pint of cream to those soups which will carry it; 
and that means in nearly all cases. The impression 
that the strength of meat is contained in stock is ill- 
founded. "What we have to aim at is to convey fuel- 
food to the system, with only that amount of albuminoids 
which is essential for tissue-repair. 

With such preliminary remarks for the guidance of 
the reader, we may now proceed to the more practical 
part of the inquiry. It wiU be well to commence with 
the invalid in bed. 



The Invalid in Bed. 

The invalid in bed includes two conditions, (1) of 
fever ; (2) of debility. It may be well to consider the 
fever patient first. Here there is much thirst to be 
allayed, consequently it is well that the food be in fluid 
form ; indeed, other food cannot well be taken. The first 
thing is of course milk. Milk may be given plain or 
with seltzer water, and may be iced. Equal parts of 
milk and seltzer water form a very pleasant drink (No. 
2). In typhoid fever especially, it is desirable to avoid 
too great curdling of the mOk, and when this occurs it 



22 FOOD rOK THE INVALID. 

is well to change th& milk for some other fluid, or to 
give it already digested ' (No. 84). White wine whey 
(No. 15) may be given instead. In order to prevent 
the curd of mUk curdling into a solid mass, it may be 
well to add a little fine biscTiit powder, or oatmeal, to the 
milk and seltzer water (No. 2). 

Then comes beef tea, now universally in vogue ; as 
said before, its nutritive value is very small. It may 
be taken lukewarm, or cold, or iced. It is easily 
made (No. 6). Too great a quantity need not be made 
at once ; nor is there any particular advantage to be 
gained by making it so particularly good and strong, 
as some persons imagine. The prevalent impressions 
about beef tea show how little real knowledge exists 
about our food as regards our requirements. Beef tea 
is a stimulant rather than a food. A person may be 
hungered to death on it. It is a pleasant, palatable, 
refreshing beverage when weU made. As a vehicle for 
farinaceous matters, or with a teaspoonful of cream in 
it, it is useful as a food. Liebig's extract, and the other 
extracts, are all pleasant beverages ; and may be taken 
hot, lukewarm, or cold, or iced, as occasion requires, or 
the taste of the patient directs. A more nutritive 
material is furnished by the form No. 7, where the 
water can be added warm, or, if preferi-ed, a cold drawn 
extract may be made with cold water. Preparations of 
meat juice, are in the market, especially Valentine's, 
which are very suitable for the invalid. Then mutton 
may be used (No. 8), or chicken (No. 10), or mixed 

^ In order to ascertain if the milk curdles in the stomach, and does 
not re-dissolve, the stools of a typhoid fever patient should be examined 
(after disinfection) for any milk-curd. 



INTRODUCTION. 23 

meat. All these are useful, or the patient may prefer 
eel broth (No. 125). 

It may be questioned how far the digestion of 
starch and its conversion into sugar is carried on when 
high fever is present. Consequently the great matter 
is a drink which contains a quantity of sugar, distinct 
if small. This must also have an acid taste to 
please the patient's palate. Such a drink is furnished 
in No. 25, where there are sugar and vegetable acid, and 
a certain amount of albumen, and is much relished. 
Effervescing lemonade is very grateful ; but there are 
circumstances where an aerated water is contra-indi- 
cated as filling the stomach and bowels too full of gas. 
An infusion of tamarinds forms a pleasant drink (No. 31), 
or apple water (No. 30), or lemonade (No. 30), or black 
currant water (No. 32), or the Potus Imperialis (No. 35). 
"When the temperature has fallen, then the beef tea may 
be made more nutritive by the addition of oatmeal 
to it. 

This class of fluid-food stands by itself; after the 
high fever is over then the patient may proceed to the 
other foods. During pyrexia, milk, plain, diluted, or 
already partially digested, may be used. The partial 
digestion of milk, and milk gruel, out of the body, is a 
great step forward in our management of diseased con- 
ditions. We are mainly indebted to Dr. Wm. Eoberts, 
as said before, for the information we possess on this 
subject. His preparations are given in Nos. 84, 85. 

What forms of food are to be given from time to 
time ; and when the patient may proceed to have some 
solid food ; and what this should be ; are matters to be 
decided by the medical man in each case: who car 



24 rOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

" tick " with a pencil the different articles he lyishes 
the patient to have. 

When the patient in bed comes under the class (2), 
— debility, then any of the different articles can be 
given according to the directions of the medical attend- 
ant : who must always be the dictator of the situation, 
and his orders and instructions should be carried out 
with military obedience. 

NuKSEEY Food. 

This subject requires some consideration of its own, 
and is one of growing importance. Up to a recent 
period, oatmeal porridge and milk was the food of the 
nursery par excellence ; and is still so where the parents 
possess good sense, and the children good digestions 
— conditions which do not co-exist in every household. 
Oatmeal porridge (No. 50) does not agree with every 
child, and if it distinctly disagree, then something may 
be substituted for it, as hominy porridge (ISTo. 52). 
Though brought up on oatmeal porridge, and' having the 
most affectionate remembrance of it, and still liking it, 
it must be admitted that my preferences lean towards 
hominy porridge. The peculiar value of oatmeal is the 
amount of fat in oats. But in this respect maize stands 
far ahead of it, being the richest in fat of all the 
cerealia; while it contains albuminoid matter in as 
high a proportion as does wheat. , Preparations of maize 
are peculiarly indicated for the nursery. In another 
way, Indian corn, or maize, is useful. Maize flour 
alone will not make bread. It is not sufficiently "sticky" 
to hold well together, consequently the admixture of 



INTEODUCTION. 25 

some maize flour with wheaten flour is indicated, where 
puddings and pastry are required for children with 
weak digestions. The admixture of maize flour 
causes the pudding or pastry to readily fall into 
minute particles ; and so aids the action both of the 
saliva upon the starch, and the gastric juice upon the 
albuminoids. It takes away the embarrassment of the 
digestion by favouring disintegration; the mechanical 
"cause of indigestion being so removed. Different pre- 
parations for the nursery are given in Wos. 46-63. 

Corn meal when properly prepared affords a very 
elegant addition to our food resources. It is more 
nutritious, or, at least, more fattening than wheat flour, 
containing more oily materials, and yielding, according 
to popular belief in America more sustenance to the 
animal heat. It should rarely be used as an exclusive 
article of diet, as it is distinctly loosening in its effects 
upon the bowels. It should be always thoroiighly 
cooked ; its reputation of being indigestible rests chiefly 
upon its improper preparation. 

There are two distinct kinds of corn meal ; the yellow, 
chiefly coming from the Western United States; the 
white, chiefly grown in the Southern States. The white 
corn meal is the better of the two varieties, though the 
yellow meal may be employed, and is certainly as sweet 
in its taste as the white. Corn meal at all musty or 
" heated " is not fit for human food. It should be per- 
fectly sweet and dry; and for family use should be 
purchased of the best quality and in small quantities 
as wanted. If kept on hand it should be in closed tins, 
or tight firkins with closely fitting lids, standing in a 
dry spot. The fineness of grinding affects the bread, 



26 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

coarse meal making a more open spongy bread, fine 
meal a close compact one ; some palates prefer one, 
some the other variety. 

The different crushed cereals now put on the market 
are very toothsome and keep well. They can he procured 
from the Cereals Manufacturing Co., 83, Murray Street, 
New York, U.S.A., and are sold by most leading grocers. 
They are already steam-cooked, and consist of " crushed 
white wheat," " barley food," " oatmeal," " maize,'' 
" cereal milk," and " cereal cream." Directions for use 
are supplied with them. Boiled with equal quantities 
of milk and water so as to form porridge, they are 
excellent, and can be eaten with milk, sugar and butter, 
or treacle and butter. 

An economical dish can be made by cracking any 
bones that may be at hand, and stewing them with 
rice for an hour or two. The marrow fat is very 
digestible, and the bones so often wasted would, so 
cooked with rice, furnish a good meal. Probably a little 
pepper and salt would improve the dish. 

Op Food Generally. 

In the arrangement of the bulk of this work, ordinary 
cookery books are followed. But as the readers of 
cookery books have nothing to guide them in the 
selection of their dishes, it has been thought desirable 
to provide some sort of guide. Consequently initials 
are attached to all preparations after No. 43 to guide the 
reader broadly. Thus "I" stands for "Invalid," "C" for 
"Convalescent," "D" for "Dyspeptic," "G" for "Gouty," 
and " E " for " Economical." But if a gouty reader -be 



INTRODUCTION. 27 

also a dyspeptic he had better avoid the dishes marked 
" G " ; unless " D " also be present. 

The ordinary meat dishes of family life are con- 
spicuous by their absence. All dishes consisting of 
meat once cooked and warmed, are to be studiously 
avoided by all unless their digestion be perfect. 

There is only one way of " using up " cold meat that 
is (comparatively) unobjectionable, and that is — to 
remove every particle of the meat, to mince this fine, 
with some pepper and salt ; then to place a waU of well- 
mashed potato in a pie dish, or soup plate ; put in the 
minced meat; then place over the meat a crust of mashed 
potato, and put in the oven tUl the meat is warm 
through ; and not one moment longer. The bones may 
then be cracked and stewed with rice. 

Prominence is given to sandwiches. These should 
be carefully made of stale bread, cut thin ; the butter 
well rubbed in, so as to get it finely subdivided ; then 
the jam, or meat paste should be spread evenly over the 
bread. Then each little sandwich should be neatly cut 
in four, so as to give it the most appetising appearance, 
and served up to the invalid, adult or child, in reason- 
able quantity. If too great a quantity be prepared at 
once, it destroys the patient's appetite : while what is 
left grows stale. Invalids should always have their 
food supplied in that quantity that it should be a little 
short of what they can eat ; so that they grumble, 
and complain that they could have eaten a little more. 
Too much prepared at once is bad. 

Then as to these sandwiches, if so prepared with 
jam, they are sufficient for a small meal, especially 
if accompanied by a glass of milk. 



S8 OOD 'FOR THE INVALID. 

When patients cannot take milk then the difficulties 
of feeding them are much increased. Here if the 
sandwiches are prepared with potted meat, or pate de 
foie gras, and a tumblerful of beef tea for a beverage^ 
are given, the patient gets a fairly nutritive meal. 

Then for an invalid the foed should be freshly pre- 
pared ; and, if possible, no more should be taken to the 
sick-room than can be at once eaten. 

If any remain over let it at once be taken to a cool 
place, away from the sick-room. The practice of allow- 
ing food, milk, fruit, jelly, &c., to remain in a sick- 
room is utterly abominable and .unjustifiable. It does 
not become more appetising by being looked at. It 
does not improve; while it certainly does acquire a 
taint from the atmosphere of a room. 

A glass half full of milk, a tumbler half full of ice, 
with a metal spoon in it to help to melt it quickly ; some 
jelly on a saucer; some grapes, or preserved peaches 
in another saucer, with the sunshine streaming in on a 
summer afternoon into the sick chamber ; is a painful 
sight sadly too frequently witnessed. Who could have 
any appetite, or wish to live under such circumstances ? 

The ice should be kept down stairs, wrapped up in a 
piece of flannel, and covered with sawdust : and a chip 
should be cracked off it, put into the lemonade, or milk 
and seltzer, or whatever it is, allowed to dissolve ; and 
then the whole should be taken to the patient in that 
quantity that it can be swallowed at once. 

Perfect cleanliness is essential to give food an ap- 
petising appearance. 

Ignorance in a sick-room is very objectionable, even 
when combined with any amount of family affection. 



BECIPES. 

1. 

Milk. 

This should be fresh and pure; if at all stale it 
should he boiled and then allowed to cool. 

2. 

Milk and Seltzer Water. 

Put together equal . quantities of milk and seltzer : 
drink whUe fresh. It may be iced. 

3. 

Milk and Lime Water. 

Where it is desirable to give diluted milk without 
effervescence and the disengagement of gas, lime water 
may be substituted for seltzer water with advantage. 
Lime water is made by placing a piece of quicklime 
into a gallon of water. Stir up, then let it stand, 
remove the scum from the surface, and then decant for 
use. It is of fixed strength. 



30 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

4. 

Milk and Lime. 

When it is desirable to have more fixed alkali, then 
chalk in powder can be added : say as much as will lie 
upon a sixpence to the half-pint. Stir up before 
drinking. 

5. 

Milk and Magnesia. 

Where there is a necessity for a laxative, it is well to 
substitute magnesia in powder for the chalk. 

6 

Beef Tea. 

Cut up a pound of lean beef into pieces the size of 
dice ; put it into a covered jar with two pints of cold 
water and a pinch or two of salt. Let it warm gradually, 
and simmer for a couple of hours, care being taken that 
it does not reach the boiling point. 

7. 

Nutritious Beef Tea. 

To a pint of beef tea or mutton broth (not too strong) 
add two tablespoonfuls of powdered biscuit, or bread 
crumb ; boU for five minutes, stirring well all the time. 



RECIPES. SI 

8. 

Mutton Broth. 

Cut up one pound of lean mutton into dice, to this 
put one quart of cold water, then let it simmer on the 
hob for three hours : take off the scum as required, and 
add a pinch of salt. Strain off the fluid, let it stand 
till it is cold, then remove the fat, if any. 

9, 

Veal Broth. 

This is prepared in the same way, using veal for 
mutton. ■ 

10. 

Chicken Broth. 

A young bird should be selected, and after disjointing 
it place it in a stewpan with a quart of water and boil 
two hours. Then take off the broth, let it cool, and 
then skim it. 

11. 

Beef Tea with Oatmeal. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal very smooth with 
two spoonfuls of cold v/ater, then add a pint of strong 
boUing beef tea. BoU together for five or six minutes, 
stirring it weU all the time. Strain it through a sieve 
and serve. 



32 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

12. 

Mixed Meat Tea. 

One pound of lean beef, one pound of lean veal, one 
pound of lean mutton, aU. very fresh, and cut up into 
small pieces. Put the meat into a bright stewpan, witft 
three pints of water, a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer 
gently, skimming often, for four hours, then strain. 
Twenty minutes before serving moisten a teaspoonful 
of Du Barry's Eevalenta Arabiea with a "wineglassful 
of cold water, and stir into half-a-pint of the tea ; boil 
slowly for twenty minutes. 

Note. — Du Barry's Eevalenta Arabiea will be found 
an excellent food for invalids and convalescents. 

13. 

Barley Water, 

Put an ounce of pearl barley into an enamelled sauce- 
pan with a quart of cold water, and boil for two hours 
and a half. Stir it occasionally, and skim frequently. 
Strain through muslin into a jug ; sweeten with sugar^ 
candy dust, and, if the invalid may take acids, add the 
strained juice of a lemon, 

14. 

Rice Water, 

, Put two ounces of rice into an enamelled saucepan 
with three pints of water, and boil for two hours and a 



EECIPBS, 33 

half. Stir it frequently and skim. Strain into a jug 
through a fine wire sieve ; rub through the part that 
is glutinous, but not what may be firm. Put in no 
flavouring, unless ordered by the medical man. 

15. 

White Wine Whey. 

To half a pint of boiling milk add one or two wine- 
glassfuls of sherry ; steain through a fine sieve, sweeten 
with sifted sugar, and serve. 

16. 

Beef Juice for the Sick. 

Cut one pound of beef in small pieces, put it into a 
bottle and cork it up ; set the bottle into a little cold 
water, let it stand over the fire till it boils. For 
invalids who cannot take beef tea, beef juice frozen 
in_ an ice-cream freezer is often relished by fever 
patients. 

17. 

Chicken Tea. 

Cut up a fowl in small pieces. Put it into an earthen 
vessel with some salt and three pints of water ; let it 
boil three hours, set it to cool, then take off the fat. 

18. 

CALF'S Foot Broth. 

Take two feet ; break them up ; put them into a pot 
with two quarts of water, one carrot, a little mace, and 

D 



34 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

salt. Boil two or three hours until only one quart of 
fluid is left. When done strain, add a cup of good 
•wine and one teaspoonful of Indian, or oat-meal. 

19. 

Egg and Brandy. 

Beat up three eggs to a froth in four ounces of cold 
spring water, add two or three lumps' of sugar, and 
pour in four ounces of brandy, stirring all the time. 
A portion of this may be given at a time. 

20. 

Milk, Egg, and Brandy. 

Scald some new milk, but do not let it boU. It 
ought to be put into a jug, and the jug should stand in 
boiling water. When the surface looks filmy it is 
sufficiently done, and should be put away in a cool 
place in the same vessel. When quite ^cold, beat up* a 
fresh egg with a fork in a tumbler, with a lump of 
sugar ; beat quite to a froth, add a dessert-spoonful of 
brandy, and fill up the tumbler with scalded milk. 

21, 

Milk and Brandy. 

Put one teaspoonful of brandy in a bowl or cup, add 
powdered sugar and a very little nutmeg to taste. 
Warm a breakfast-cupful of new milk, and pour it into 
a spouted jug ; pour the contents from a height over the 
brandy, sugar, &c. The milk must not boil. 



EECIPBS. 35 

22. 

Egg and Sherry. 

Beat up with a fork an egg till it froths, add a lump 
of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of water ; mix well, 
pour in a wineglassful of sherry, and serve before it 
gets flat. 

23. 
Caudle. 

Beat up an egg to a froth, add a wineglassful of 
sherry, and half-a-pint of gruel; flavour with lemon- 
peel and nutmeg, and sweeten to taste. 

Another Caudle. — Mix well together one pint of cold 
gruel with a wineglassful of good cream ; add a wine- 
glassful of sherry and a tablespoonful of noyeau, and 
sweeten with sugar-candy. 

24. 

A Gruel. 

Beat up an egg to a froth, add a wineglass of sherry, 
flavour with a lump of sugar, a strip of lemon-peel, and 
a little grated nutmeg. Have ready some gruel, very 
smooth and hot, stir in the wine and egg, and serve 
with sippets of crisp toast. Arrowroot may be made 
in the same way. 

D 2 



36 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

25. 

An American Drink. 

Put the juice of a lemon to a pint of water in whicli 
an ounce of sugar has been dissolved, then add the 
white of an egg and froth up. It may be iced. 

26. 

Farina Gruel. 

Stir two tablespoonfuls of farina into a quart of 
water in a milk saucepan, let this boil until it has grown 
quite thick ; add a pint of milk, a little salt, and let it 
boil fifteen minutes longer, turn out into a bowl, and 
sweeten to taste. 

27. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Put a pint of boiling water into a saucepan ; into 
this stir a couple of tablespoonfuls of oatmeal until 
quite smooth ; let this boil well for ten or fifteen minutes, 
season with salt, then strain through a strainer; and add 
a little port wine and sugar if the patient may have it. 

28. 

Oatmeal Soup. 

Put two ounces of oatmeal m a basin, pour over it 
a pint of cold water, stir it and let it stand a minute ; 
then pour over it, quickly stirring aU the time, a pint of 



RECIPES. 37 

good broth, pour through a fine strainer into a saucepan, 
taking care none of the coarse part of the meal goes 
into the soup. Boil the soup for ten minutes, season, 
and serve. 

29. 

Toast Water. 

This useful beverage, like many other , simple things, 
is too frequently very badly made, and has acquired an 
evil reputation from the crumbs of charcoal-like charac- 
ter, or little sodden morsels of bread, which too often 
are found floating on the surface. To remedy these 
defects, take care that the crusts from which toast water 
is to be made shall be only a nice deep brown ; never 
allowing them to catch fire or blacken in the toast- 
ing, and letting them grow quite cold before immersing 
them in nice fresh-filtered water. Whenever from any 
cause there are morsels of bread floating on the water, 
strain it through muslin. The drink should be made 
an hour before it is wanted, and never be used after 
standing twelve hours. 

30. 

LEMONADE. 

Four lemons, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and 
three pints of boiling water ; rub some sugar on the 
rinds of two of the lemons till it is yeUow. Strain the 
juice of the four ; put the sugar and juice into a jug, 
and pour over the water. Cover it till cold. 



38 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

31. 
Tamarind Water. 

Boil two ounces of tamarinds with a quarter of a 
pound of stoned raisins in three pints of water for an 
hour ; strain it, and when cold it is fit for use. 

32. 

Arrowroot and Black-Currant Drink. 

Take two large spoonfuls of black-currant preserve, 
boil it in a quart of water, cover it, and stew gently for 
half an hour, then strain it, and set the liquor again 
on the fire; then mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot in 
cold water and pour the boiling liquor upon it, stirring 
meanwhile ; then let it get quite cold. 

33. 

Indian Meal Water Gruel. 

Mix a tablespoonful of com meal smoothly in half a 
teacupful of cold water. Stir it into a teacupful of 
boiling water, add a little salt, and let it boil untU the 
meal is thoroughly cooked, and then sweeten it. 

34. 

Indian Meal Milk Gruel. 

Sweeten a quart of milk and stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of corn meal. This must be carefully cooked as the meal 



EECIPES. 39 

is apt to scorch, and must be stirred whilst cooking. 
A little nutmeg grated on top after it is done makes a 
pleasant flavour. If the gruel is desired thick more 
meal will be needed. 

35. 

Cream of Tartar. 
potus impeeiaus. 

(-4 Cooling Brink.) 

Put half an ounce of cream of tartar, the juice of one 
lemon, and two tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar into a 
jug, and pour over a quart of boiling water. Cover till 
cold. 

36. 

Apple Water. 

Cut up one pound of apples, each one into quarters, 
bake them, and put them into a jug, with half a pound 
of brown sugar, pour one gallon of boUing water over; let 
it get cold, pulp the apples, and pass the liquor through 
a cullender ; bottle for use, taking care not to cork the 
bottle, and keep it in a cool place. 

37. 

Apple Toast and Water. 

A piece of bread slowly toasted till it gets quite black 
and added to the above makes a very nice and refreshing 
drink for invalids. 



40 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

38. 

Apple Barley Wate^. 

A quarter of a pound of pearl tarley instead of toast 
added to the atove, and boil for one hour, is also a very 
nice drink. 

39. 
Apple Rice Water. 

Half a pound of rice, boiled in the above until in pulp, 
passed through a cullender, and drunk when cold. 

All kinds of fruits may be done the same way. A 
little ginger, if approved of, may be used. 

40. 

For Spring Drinks. 

Ehubarb, in the same quantities, and done in the 
same way as apples, adding more sugar, is very cooling. 
Also green gooseberries. 

41. 
For Summer Drinks. 

One pound of red currants, bruised with some rasp- 
berries, half a pound of sugar, added to a gallon of cold 
water ; well stirred, allowed to settle, and bottle. 



RECIPES. 41 

42. 

Mulberry. 

The same, adding a little lemon- peel. A little cream 
of tartar or citric acid added to these renders them more 
cooling in summer and spring. 

43. 

Milk Lemonade. 

Dissolve six ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of boiling 
water and mix with them a quarter of a pint of lemon- 
juice and the same quantity of sherry, then add three- > 
quarters of a pint of cold milk, stir the whole well 
together and pass it through a jelly-bag. 

44. 

Cold Milk Toast. 

Place in a flat pan some slices of stale bread, let them 
get dry and of a nice brown in a good oven ; then pound 
almost to a powder in the mortar, fill a bowl half fuU 
and pour over them some cold milk, salted. This can 
be eaten with salt or sugar. (I. 0. D. G. E.) 

45. 

Powdered Biscuit and Milk. 

Powder an arrowroot biscuit and stir it into the half 
or three-quarters of a pint of mUk. Take it cold or 
warm, adding sugar to taste. (I. C. D. G. E.) 



42 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

46. 

Milk Pudding. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of clean rice or sago ; soak 
in warm water for two hours ; then drain off the water. 
Stir the rice in a pint of milk, add a little sugar and bake 
or boH for an hour. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

47. 

Milk Porridge. 

One pint of boiling water ; mix a large spoonful of 
flour in a little cold water. Stir it into the water whUe 
boihng ; let it boil fifteen minutes ; then add a teacup- 
ful of milk and a little salt. Give one boU. 

(I. C. D. G.) 
48. 

Strengthening Drink. 

Beat the yolk of a fresh egg with a little sugar : add 
a very little brandy ; beat the white to a strong froth ; 
stir into the yolk ; fiU up the tumbler with new milk. 

(I. C. D. G.) 
49. 

Tapioca Jelly. 

One cup best tapioca put to soak with a pint of cold 
water ; when soft put in a saucepan with one cup of 
sugar, the rind and juice of one lemon, a little salt, one 
pint more water ; stir until it boils ; turn into a mould ; 
set to cool ; add one glass of wine, if desired. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

You can make arrowroot or sago in the same way. 



EECIPES. 43 

50. 
Porridge — Oatmeal. 

If you want to make it quickly for a family, take 
twelve ounces of fine meal, half an ounce of salt, and 
three pints of water. Dissolve the salt in the boiling 
water, add the meal after having rubbed it smooth in a 
little cold water, stir it all the time, and allow it to boil 
aU over the surface of the water for twenty minutes, or 
more. Pour it into saucers, and serve with mdlk, and 
either salt, or sugar, or treacle. 

The proper way is to eat first a spoonful of porridge, 
and then one of mUk, but I do not think many people 
take that trouble. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

51. 

Whole Meal Porridge. 

You can get the whole meal at many bakers' shops now, 
and it is very delicious when properly made. Take one 
quart of boiling water, and sprinkle in gradually half a 
pound of wheat-meal ; boil till quite soft, then serve with 
milk and treacle or brown sugar. (I. C. D. G-.) 

52. 

Hasty Pudding for Children's breakfast. 

Boil half a pint of mUk, beat two dessertspoonfuls of 
flour into a paste with cold milk ; add it to the boUiny 
milk and keep stirring it always in the same direction 
till it is done. 



44 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

53. 

EGYPTIAN Porridge. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of lentil flour, a saltspoonful 
of salt, and one pint of water. Now mix your flour and 
salt into a paste with the water, and boil ten minutes, 
stirring aU the time. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

54. 

Coarse Porridge. 

Have ready some boiling water on the fire with a little 
salt in it ; then sprinkle in the coarse oatmeal, and boil 
it for two hours. People from Yorkshire and Scotland 
will not touch the fine oatmeal, which they say is only 
fit for gruel, and for sick people. (I. 0. D. G-. E.) 

55. 

Sago. 

Put half an ounce of sago into an enamelled sauce- 
pan with three-quarters of a pint of cold water, and 
boil gently for an hour and a quarter. Skim when it 
comes to the boil, and stir frequently. Sweeten with a 
dessertspoonful of sifted loaf sugar. If wine be ordered, 
two dessertspoonfuls; and if brandy, one dessert- 
spoonful. (I. 0. D. G.) 

56. 

Tapioca Milk. 

Half an ounce of the best tapioca to a pint and 
a quarter of new milk. Simmer gently for two hours 



RECIPES. 45 

and a quarter, stirring frequently. Sweeten with a 
dessertspoonful of sifted sugar. (I. C. D. G.) 

67. 

Rice Milk. 

Wash a tablespoonful of the best rice, and boil it an 
hour and a half in a pint of new milk ; rub through a 
fine sieve. Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of sifted 
sugar. Boil up again for two minutes. (I. C. D. G.) 

58. 

Arrowroot. 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of the best arrowroot with half 
a wineglassful of cold water; add a pint of boiling 
water ; put it into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over 
the fire for three minutes. Sweeten with three tea- 
spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar. Add (if permitted to 
take it) either a wineglassful of white wine or a table- 
spoonful of brandy. (I. C. D. G.) 

59. 

Arrowroot Milk. 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot with a wineglass- 
ful of new milk ; add half a pint of boiling milk ; put 
it into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over the fire 
for three minutes. Sweeten with a dessertspoonful 
of sifted loaf sugar. (I. C. D. G.) 



46 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

60. 

INDIAN Corn Flour. 

Mix a dessertspoonful of " Brown and Poison's " 
Indian corn flour with a wineglassful of new milk ; add 
half a pint of boOing milk, and stir over the fire for 
four minutes. Sweeten with a teaspoonful of sifted 
loaf sugar. Add a tablespoonful of good cream. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

61. 

Cocoa Nibs. 

Two ounces wiU make two moderate-sized breakfast 
cups. Put it into a tin coffeepot (bright inside) with a 
quart of water, and boil for five hours. Pour it into a 
jug, and when cold take off the fat ; boil up the cocoa, 
and send to table with boiling milk. If prepared cocoa 
be used " Cocoatina " wiU be found the best. It requires 
double the quantity given in the " Directions for use." 
Prepared by Schweitzer and Co., 86, King's Eoad, 
Brighton. (I. C. D. G.) 

62. 

Hominy Porridge. 

Put to soak one <pint of hominy in two and one half 
pints of boiling water over night, in a tin vessel with a 
tight' cover ; in the morning place over a brisk fire and 
boil for twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

(I. C. D. G. E.) 



EECIPBS. 47 

63. 
Hominy Pudding. 

Take the hominy soaked over night, and place in a 
dish with a pint and a half of milk ; put in the oven 
and bake for twenty minutes. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

64. 

Hominy Cheese Pudding. 

Treat the hominy as above, but when baked add 
three ounces of finely grated cheese, and mix thoroughly ; 
then bake for five or seven minutes. (I. C. D. G.) 

65. 

Corn Meal Bread— Boiled. 

In siK cups of mUk put one cup of molasses and half 
a cup of sugar, and a little salt. Stir in six cups of 
corn meal, one teaspoonful of bakiag soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, and one pint of flour. Stir 
well together. Put into a covered tin vessel, immerse 
in boiling water, and boil four hours. Serve hot. 

(I. C. D. G.) 
66. 

Corn Bread — Baked. 

To one quart of sweet mUk put one teacup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup of milk, one 
pint of corn meal, one cup of flour, and a little salt. 
Beat very light and pour into buttered pans and bake 
two hours. ■ Serve hot. (C. G. ) 



48 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

67. 

Corn Bread — Steamed. 

In two and a half cups of thick milk, or buttermilk, 
put two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one tablespoonful 
of melted lard. Stir in two cups of corn meal, one cup 
of flour, one teaspoonful of baking soda, and one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Beat very hard, put into a buttered 
mould, and steam one hour and a half. Set in an oven 
for a few minutes. Ikirn out upon a hot plate, and eat 
while warm. This makes a good plain dessert if eaten 
with puddiug sauce. (I. C. G.) 

68. 

Corn Meal Breakfast Cake. 

Mix well by sifting one pint of corn meal and two table- 
spoonfuls of wheat flour ; add one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of baking soda, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Mix rapidly and 
thoroughly with one pint of sweet milk, one beaten egg, 
and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Bake in a 
shallow pan, in a hot oven, for twenty minutes. 

(C. G.) 
69. 

Another Corn Meal Breakfast Cake. 

Break two eggs into a pint of sour milk, add one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful of salt, 
and stir in sufficient corn meal to make a thick batter, 
then mix in one teaspoonful of baking soda. Bake in 
shallow pans in a hot oven. (C. G.) 



EECIPES. 49 

70, 

Corn Meal Pudding. 

Oue quart of milk, four cups of molasses, two table- 
spoonfuls of com meal, one cup of sugar, one egg, a little 
salt, one quarter of a pound of suet' chopped fine. 
Put the molasses in one pint of the milk, then add the 
salt, and cup of sugar, and the suet, and one tablespoon- 
ful of the meal. Heat the other pint of milk and scald 
the remaining tablespoonful of meal with it. Then 
stir all together. Put in a pudding dish. Stir it occa- 
sionally while baking, until it settles. Serve hot. 

(C. G.) 
71. 

Hominy, or Large White Corn— Boiled. 

Soak over night one quart of the hominy in cold 
water, next day put it into a pot with two quarts of water, 
and boil slowly three hours, or until it is soft. Drain in 
a cullender and stir in butter and salt. (I. C. D. G.) 

72. 

Grits, or Breakfast Hominy. 

It is the large white corn cracked fine. Soak a pint 
of grits in cold water over night. In the morning 
put it into about one quart of boiling water with a 
little salt. Cook briskly, stirring frequently for about 
half an hour. When nearly done, stir in about half a 
pint of milk. It should be about as thick as mush. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

E 



60 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

73. 

Corn Starch Pudding. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
four eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, six tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold milk, 
and having heated the rest of the milk to boiling, stir 
this in and boil three minutes, stirring it all the tirbe. 
Take from the fire and while still hot put in the butter. 
Set away until cold. Beat the eggs very light, whites 
and yolks separately. Stir the sugar and any flavour- 
ing desired in the yolks and then add the beaten whites, 
and stir in the corn starch beating thoroughly to a 
smooth custard. Turn into a buttered disb and bake 
half an hour. To be eaten cold. (I. C. D. G.) 

74. 

Another Corn Starch Pudding. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar and a little salt. 
Dissolve the corn starch in a little of the milk, and mix 
with it the sugar, and the eggs well beaten. Heat the 
remainder of the milk to near boiling, add the above 
preparation and boil five minutes, stirring it briskly. 
To be eaten with cream or sauce. (T. C. D. G.) 

75. 

Snow Pudding. 

Put into half a pint of cold water half a package of 
gelatine. Let it stand one hour, then ^dd one pint of 



RECIPES. 51 

boiling water, half a pound of sugar, and the juice of 
two lemons. Stir and strdn and let it stand all night. 
Beat very stiff the whites of two eggs and beat well 
into the mixture. Pour into a mould. This is veiy 
nice eaten with cream sweetened and flavoured. 

(I. C.) 

76. 

Cream. 

A delicious and nourishing preparation for conva- 
lescents. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and the rind (grated lightly) and juice of a small 
lemon, or orange. Add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar 
to the whites of the eggs and beat until stiff. Place 
the vessel containing the beaten yolks in a pot ot boil- 
ing water, cook gently stirring it all the time. When it 
begins to thicken stir in the whites of the eggs until 
thoroughly mixed, then put it to cool. Serve in small 
glasses. (T. C.) 

77. 

Bread Jelly. 

Take off the crust of five slices of stale bread, then 
toast them a light brown. Put them in two quarts of 
boiling water with a few sHees of lemon, let it boil to a 
jelly; then strain and sweeten to the taste. To be 
eaten cold. If the lemon is not liked the jelly can be 
flavoured with a little wine put in at the same time 
with the sugar. A very delicate article of diet. 

(I. C. D. G.) 
E 2 



52 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

78. 

Sandwiches. 

These can be prepared as directed at p. 27, and made 
with a slice of beef, or ham, or from the thick part of a 
tongue, or the sheep's tongues in tins, or with real or 
mock pat4 de foie gras; or with the potted meats of 
Crosse and BlackweU, potted lobster, shrimps, cod's roe, 
ham, beef, or tongue. Ham with chicken, veal and ham 
or Strasburg meats ; or with potted game or venison. 
Or they may be prepared with any jam, as strawberry, 
quince, damson, apricot, peach, or plum. If marmalade 
be used the act of mastication should be carefully per- 
formed. 

79. 

Mock Pate de Foie Gras. 

Eub the bottom of a stewpan five times across with a 
piece of fresh cut garlic, put in three pounds of larded 
calf's liver, with two chopped shalots, a laurel leaf, a 
bay leaf, a blade of mace, four peppercorns, two cloves, 
a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, 
and half a pint of water or stock ; simmer, gently for 
four hours. Then cut the liver into thin slices, place 
in a basin and cover with the liquid ; let it remain till 
the next day. Then pound the liver to a paste, add a 
tablespoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, 
add three-quarters of a pound of clarified butter ; 
pound well together, and pass through a wire sieve; 
put into pots; smooth over the top with a knife, then 
pour over hot clarified butter or lard, and keep in a 
cool place. (I. C. D. G. E.) 



EECIPES. 53 

80. 

Potted Beef. 

Cook a beefsteak, cut off the fat, gristle, and out- 
side pieces ; pound in a mortar till in a paste ; to 
one pound of beef add a saltspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy-sauce, a saltspoonful of white 
pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, the eighth 
part of a nutmeg, grated, a mustardspoonful of fresh- 
made mustard, a tablespoonful of beef gravy, and three 
ounces of dissolved butter ; press it into pots, smooth 
over the top with a knife, and pour over an ounce of 
dissolved butter. To be kept in a cool place. 

(I. C. D.) 

81. 

Potted Tongue. 

Cut some (cold boiled) tongue into thin slices, a little 
of the fat also, pound it to paste in a mortar. To one 
pound add a teaspoouful of fresh-made mustard, the 
eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoonful of 
white pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, and 
two ounces of dissolved fresh butter; press the meat 
into pots, and pour an ounce of dissolved butter over 
them. Ham can be done the same way. (I. C. D.) 

82. 
Beep Juice with Toast. 

Broil a rump steak over a hot fire until it is only just 
nicely browned and hot through ; cut it into pieces and 



54 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

press it to get all the juice out of it ; season this with 
salt and a little pepper, pour it over some nicely made 
toast on a hot dish, and serve as hot as possible. 

(LCD.) 

83, 

Pounded Beef. 

Take one pound of cold roast beef, pound it well to a 
paste, add a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of 
white pepper, one blade of mace, and half a pound of 
clarified butter ; mix together and pass through a wire 
sieve. Put into pots, press down, and run over the top 
hot clarified butter. (I. C. D.) 

Aktifioial Digestion. 

This subject is practically so new that I prefer to give 
verbatim the directions which are given with each 
bottle of the most potent fluid we possess for the pur- 
pose of artificial digestion. As said before, at p. 19, 
such digested food is indicated in severe conditions, as 
in typhoid fever, in gastric ulcer, in great prostration, 
and in confirmed intractable dyspepsia. 

84 

Peptonized Milk. 

Fresh milk is diluted with water in the proportion of 
three parts of milk to one part of water. A pint of 
this mixture is heated to boiling, and then poured into 
a covered jug. When it has cooled down to about 140° 



EECIPES. 65 

Fahr., one or two teaspooafuls of the liquor pancrea- 
ticus, and a small pinch of bicarbonate of soda (in 
solution) are mixed therewith. The jug is then placed 
under a " cosey " in a warm situation for one hour. At 
the end of this time the product is again boiled for a 
couple of minutes. It can then be used like ordinary 
milk. 



85. 

Peptonized Milk-gruel. 

Half a pint of well-boiled gruel is added, while still 
boiling hot, to half a pint of cold milk in a covered jug. 
The mixture will have a temperature of about 125° 
Fahr. The liquor pancreaticus and the bicarbonate of 
soda are then added in the same proportion as in the 
preceding process. The jug is placed under a "cosey" 
and kept warm for an hour and half. The contents are 
then boiled for a couple of minutes, and the product is 
ready for use. By this second method the use of the 
thermometer is dispensed with. 



86. 

Preparation of Nutritive Enemata. 

A nutritive enema should be prepared in the usual 
way — of mUk — or of milk with beef tea or eggs — or of 
milk-gruel. To half a pint of the warm enema a table- 
spoonful of the liquor pancreaticus, and thirty grains of 
bicarbonate of soda should be added. The enema can 
then be administered at once. 



66 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

87. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Scrape into one quart of thick cream one ounce of 
the'best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, boil 
and beat it ; when quite smooth take it off, and leave it 
to be cold, then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk 
and take up the froth on sieves; serve the cream in 
glasses, putting the froth on the top. (I. C. D. G.) 



Whipped Cream. 

Beat half a pint of fresh double cream with a whisk, 
add a dessertspoonful of very finely powdered loaf sugar, 
and twenty drops of essence of vanilla or any other 
flavouring ; when firm, it is ready for use ; but much 
improved by being on ice for an hour or two. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

89. 

Cocoa-nut Cream. 

Put two ounces of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a 
wineglass of water, an inch of cinnamon, one clove, and 
two inches of thin lemon peel ; boil till in a thick 
syrup. Mix' a dessertspoonful of Oswego flour with two 
tablespoonfuls of cocoa-milk, strain the syrup to it, and 
boil up for one minute; add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream; stir till cold; then add one tablespoonful of 
brandy and twenty-five drops of the essence of vanilla. 
Serve cold. (I. C. D. G.) 



RECIPES. 57 

90. 

Spinach Cream. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or 
a whisk ; sweeten a good deal ; and put to them a stick 
of cinnamon, a pint of cream, three quarters of a pint 
of new mUk ; stir it well, then add a quarter of a pint 
of spinach juice ; set over a gentle stove, and stir one 
way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty pudding. 
It is to be eaten cold. 

(T. C. D. G.) 



9J.. 
Raspberry Cream. 

Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of the best isin- 
glass, and five ounces of loaf sugar in three quarters of 
a pint of new milk, by boiling it slowly for ten minutes ; 
strain it into a basin, and add a pint of rich cream, 
with the juice of three-quarters of a pint of fresh 
raspberries (put them into a saucepan with three ounces 
of loaf sugar, boil fast and skim for a quarter of an 
hour, then strain through muslin), turn it rapidly with 
a whisk till it begins to thicken. Dip a mould in cold 
water, put in the cream, and place it on ice till firmly 
set. Turn out carefully. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



58 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

92. 
Mixed Fresh Fruit Cream. 

A teacupful of red currants, the same of Kentisli 
cherries, half a teacupful of white currants, and three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar; boil quickly and 
skim often for twenty minutes ; add a teacupful of 
raspberries and the same of strawberries : simmer two 
minutes ; then press the whole through a sieve ; stir the 
syrup into a pint of rich cream, and whisk it quickly 
till it thickens. Serve in glass cups. 

Note, — Should be made two hours before required and 
kept in a cool place. (I. C. D. G.) 

93. 

Gooseberry Cream. 

A pint of gooseberries, three-quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar, the juice of a small lemon, and half the peel, 
very thin, boil till quite in a pulp ; then rub through a 
hair sieve; add a pint of good cream, and whisk it 
quickly tni it thickens. Serve in a glass dish or small 
glass cups. (I. C, D. G.) 

94. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Put the fruit into a stone jar, with some good loaf 
sugar ; set the jar on a stove, or in a saucepan of water 
over the fire ; if the former a large spoonful of water 
should be added to the fruit. When it is done enough 



EECIPES. 69 

to pulp, press it through a colander ; have ready a 
sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cup of 
cream, boiled together (or an egg instead of the 
latter), and left to be cold, then sweeten it pretty 
well with loaf sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees 
with it. (I. C. D. G.) 

95. 

Farm Custard. 

Put into a small saucepan the yolks of four eggs, 
four teaspoonfuls of sugar, the peel of half a lemon, or 
a quarter of that grated, a grain of salt ; mix all well, 
then add half a pint of milk ; set the whole on the fire, 
stir continually with a wooden spoon till it gets thick 
and smooth ; but do not let it boU, or it will curd, 
then put it in a basin to cool, stirring now and then ; 
by passing it through a sieve it gives it a nice appear- 
ance, and serve in glasses or cups with any fresh or 
stewed fruits. (I. C.) 

96. 

Strawberry Salad. 

A large pottle of ripe strawberries, picked and put 
into a basin with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch 
of powdered cinnamon, a giU of brandy ; stir gently 
and serve. 

Currants and raspberries the same. 

As aU fruits and vegetables are destined for the use 
of man, these should be partaken of by all classes when 
in season, as they are invaluable for health. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



60 FOOD FOIl THE INVALID. 

97. 
Stewed Fruits. — Apples. 

Peel one pound of apples, cut in slices, remove the 
core, put into a stewpan with three or four ounces of 
white pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of water, stir gently on a slow fire until 
tender ; use hot or cOld when required. Brown sugar 
may be used. 

Another way. — To the above add the juice of half 
a lemon, or of one orange, and a little of the peel of 
either, or a small piece of cinnamon or in powder. 

(I. C. D.) 

98. 

Red Rhubarb. 

Cut one pound of rhubarb one inch long, put into 
a pan with two tablespoonfuls of water and three 
ounces of white powdered sugar; stir on a slow fire 
tiU tender. (I. C.) 

99. 

Green Rhubarb. 

It requires peeling, and stewing with brown sugar. 
Stir more if old. (I. C. D.) 

100. 

Cherries, 

Cut the stalk half off of one pound of cherries, put 
into a pan with eight ounces of sugar; set on the 
stove for a few minutes, then add half a pound of 



RECIPES. ei 

red currants and the same same of raspberries; stew 
altogether until getting tender and the juice becomes 
quite thick, put by until cold. (I. C.) 

101. 
Preserved Pears. 

{To he, done early in October.) 

Any good pears just gathered for keeping. Peel 
them and cut them in halves, take out the cores. Put 
the pears into cold water to prevent them becoming dis- 
coloured. Put the parings and cores into a skillet with 
double their weight of the common black plums, quite 
ripe. Cover them with cold water and boil slowly till 
the liquor is well flavoured and slightly pink; then 
strain it off. Put the pears into the skiUet with three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar, in powder, to every 
pound. Cover them with the liquor, and simmer gently 
till they are tender, but not soft. Then take them out 
put them in pots, boil the syrup rapidly, till it becomes 
thick and bright. Pour it over the pears, and when 
cold tie them over. Label the pots and keep them in 
a dry closet. If the pears should get overdone by 
accident, break them up into a marmalade. They 
require more care than most things in preserving, as 
they quickly become soft. (I. C. D.) 

102. 

^RESERVED QUINCES. 

Pare the quinces, cut them in halves, scoop out the 
cores, and put them into cold water to preserve the 



62 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

colour. Put into a stewpan the parings and cores, with 
three times their weight of apples, cut in sUces, and 
sufficient cold water to cover them well, and boil till 
quite in a soft pulp ; then strain through a sieve with- 
out bruising the pulp. "Weigh the quinces and the juice, 
and allow three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to 
every pound. Put the quinces, the juice, and the sugar 
into a stewpan and simmer gently, skimming often till 
they are tender and the jiiice is clear. Put the quinces 
carefully into jars, and fill up with the juice. When 
cold tie them down and keep them in a dry closet. 
There will probably be more juice than the jars require. 
This can be put into small glasses ; when cold it forms 
a bright jelly and is very good with cream or cold boiled 
rice. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



103. 
Stewed Figs. 

Put into an enamelled stewpan four ounces of refined 
sugar, the very thin rind of a large and fresh lemon, 
and a pint of cold water. When the sugar is dissolved, 
add a pound of tine Turkey figs, and place the stewpan 
on a trivet above a moderate fire, or upon a stove, where 
they can be very gently stewed. Prom two hours to two 
hours and a half will render the figs tender, then add to 
them two glassfuls of port-wine and the strained juice 
of the lemon. Serve when cold. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



RECIPES. 63 

104. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Wash the fruit, and for every pound allow half a 
pound of raw sugar and one pint of water. Boil the 
sugar and water together for ten minutes, then put in 
the fruit, and let it boil gently for two hours, or until 
perfectly tender, so that it breaks if touched with the 
finger. Drain the syrup from the prunes, and boil it 
until it becomes thick, then put the prunes back into 
it, and let them stand until the next day. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

105. 

Normandy Pippins. 

Nine pippins will make a nice little dish ; let them 
be all of the same size. Wash them ; put them into a 
brass skillet, with sufficient cold water to cover them ; 
boU up and simmer for a quarter of an hour ; drain on 
a sieve, and let them get cold. Cut off the thin yeUow 
peel of one lemon, half of a Seville orange, and one 
sweet orange; express and strain the juice. Wipe out 
the skillet, put in the pippins, the juice, the peel, three 
cloves, three allspice, an inch of cinnamon, six ounces 
of loaf sugar, a gill of Marsala, and a gill of water. 
Simmer very gently, and skim often, till the pippins 
are tender, but not soft and pulpy. Take them out, 
put them in a pie-dish, boil the syrup till it thickens 
slightly, then strain it over the pippins. When quite 
cold, serve. They should be of a rich dark brown 
colour through. (I. C. D. G.) 



64 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

106. 

Custard without Eggs— with Fruit. 

Mix a large tablespooaful of Oswego and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar with a little cold milk. Soil a pint 
of milk with the thin peel of half a lemon and a laurel 
leaf; let it stand off the fire for ten minutes; take out 
the peel and leaf, pour the milk over the Oswego, stir- 
ring all the time ; put it into a saucepan, and boil for 
two minutes ; turn it into a basin, and stir it till it is 
cool. Put half a pound of marmalade, or sweetened 
summer fruit into a dish ; pour the custard over, and 
stand it in a cool place till wanted. Sweeten the fruit 
as follows : — A pint of fine red currants and a pint of 
fresh raspberries, both nicely picked; put them into 
a dish with a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar 
and a tablespoonful of water, and let them saturate for 
six hours or longer. Stir them frequently, and use as 
directed. (I. C. D. G.) 

107. 

Rich Boiled Custard. 

Take a small cupful from a quart of fresh cream, 
and simmer the remainder for a few minutes, with four 
ounces of sugar and the rind of a lemon, or give it any 
other flavour that may be preferred. Beat and strain 
the yolks of eight eggs, mix thein with the cupful of 
cream, and stir the rest, boiling, to them. Keep .the 
custard stirred gently, but without ceasing, until it 
begins to thicken. Then move the spoon rather more 



EECIPBa C5 

quickly, making it always touch the bottom of the jug 
until the mixture is brought to the point of boiling, 
when it must be instantly taken from the fire or it will 
curdle in a moment. Pour it into a bowl and keep it 
stirred until nearly cold, then add to it by degrees a 
wineglassful of good brandy, and two ounces of blanched 
almonds. (I. C. G,) 

108. 

Custard. 

A pint of new milk, three ounces of loaf sugar, and 
the thin rind of half a lemon boiled in an enamelled 
saucepan for three minutes ; take it off the fire for five 
minutes ; beat eight eggs, leaving out four of the whites, 
add the milk to the eggs, stirring quickly as it is poured 
in. Put the custard again into the saucepan, and stir 
over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then strain 
through a fine sieve into a basin ; add half a gill of good 
cream, and any of the following flavouring : — Brandy, 
cura9oa, maraschino, or rum ; of either two tablespoon- 
fuls ; ratafia, one tablespoonful ; essence of vanilla or 
lemon, twenty drops ; orange-flower water, a teaspoonfuL 

(I. C. D. G.) 
109. 

Sweet Eggs. 

Divide the yolks from the whites of ten perfectly 
new-laid eggs. Add to the yolks four dessertspoonfuls 
of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and beat them ten minutes. 
Whip the whites with a wire whisk till in a stiff froth ; 
add five dessertspoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar and 

F 



.G6 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

twenty drops of essence of vanilla, and continue to 
whip till well mixed. Put the yolk-mixture into a 
hright, or an enamelled saucepan, and stir over the fire ; 
it takes the consistency of a thick cream ; but care is 
required that it do not curdle by being overdonei 
When a little cooled, pour it into a glass dish, and 
pour the whip over, Oswego cakes may be served 
with it. (I. C. D.) 

110. 

Apple Russe. 

Butter a pie-dish ; sprinkle with a little moist sugar ; 
cut slices of bread very thin, with which cover the 
bottom and sides of the dish. Cut in three the pieces 
of apple out of the American tins of same ; put a 
layer of these sprinkled with sugar, and flavoured with 
cloves or lemon, and then a layer of bread, till the dish 
is fuU, bread being at the top ; pour the juice out of 
the tin over all, and bake until of a nice brown. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

111. 

Arrowroot Pudding. 

Beat the yolks, of two new-laid eggs, boil the third of 
a pint of new milk with an ounce of loaf sugar in it. 
Mix a large teaspoonful of arrowroot with a dessert- 
spoonful of cold milk ; pour over the boiling milk ; let 
it get nearly cold, then beat in the eggs. 'Put it into a 
basin, tie it closely over, and boil quickly for twenty 
minutes, or it may be baked in a quick oven for ten 
minutes or a quarter of an hour. (I. C. D. G.) 



RECIPES. 67 

112. 

Ground Rice Pudding. 

Mix a teaspoonful of finely-ground rice with a des- 
sertspoonful of cold milk, pour over half-a-pint of 
Tjoiling (new) milk, put it into an enamelled saucepan, 
and stir over the fire for half an hour. Sweeten with 
three teaspoonfuls of sifted sugar; set the saucepan 
aside for ^ve minutes. Beat the yolk of one new-laid 
egg, add it to the rice, and stir over the fire for one 
minute after it comes to boiling heat. This pudding 
may be served either hot or cold. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

113. 

Matrimony Pudding. 

Pare and core one pound and a half of apples, and 
boil with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, the 
grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, and the sixth 
part of a nutmeg, grated ; stir till they become a rich 
marmalade ; then let it get cold. Make a custard as 
follows : — Moisten a tablespoonful of Oswego flour with 
half-a-giU of new mUk ; boil a quarter of a pound of 
loaf sugar in half a pint of milk, and stir into it the 
flour while boUing, add four weU-beaten eggs and half 
a gill of thick cream. Butter a pie-dish, lay in the 
custard and marmalade in alternate layers tUl the 
dish is full; bake in a quick oven for twenty-five 
minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

(I. C. G.) 
F 2 



68 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

114 

Cumberland Pudding. 

Four ounces of apples, finely chopped, three ounces 
of fine crumbs of bread, four ounces of moist sugar, 
four ounces of well-washed currants, four ounces of 
beef-marrow or suet, finely chopped, the grated rind and 
strained juice of half a lemon, the sixth part of a nut- 
meg, grated, three weU-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of 
dried flour, and half a gill of TnilV ; mix these ingredients 
well together, beat for ten minutes ; butter a basin, put 
in the mixture, tie a cloth over, put it into plenty of 
boiling water, and boil fast for three hours, or ba;ke in 
a moderate oven an hour and a half. Serve with sifted 
sugar over it. (C. ) 

115. 

Suet Pudding. 

Put into a basin half a pound of chopped suet, half 
a pound of baked flour, two eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, 
quarter of pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of treacle, 
with nearly half a pint of water ; beat all well together, 
put into a cloth or mould to boU for one hour and a 
half. (I. C. D. G.) 

116. 

Boiled Suet Pudding. 

Beat three eggs to a froth, add a cupful of chopped 
beef suet, a teaspoonful of salt, and one pint of milk, 
and stir in gradually until smooth, enough baked flour 



EECIPES. 69 

to make a stiff batter. Pour into a buttered bowl, and 
tie in a cloth and boil four hoars. Serve with either 
sugar and treacle, or sugar and milk. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



117. 

Suet Pudding with Treacle. 

Put into a basin half a pound of chopped suet, a pound 
of flour, two eggs, a teaspoonful of salt and a teacupful 
of treacle, and nearly half a pint of water ; beat all well 
together and boil in a cloth or basin for two hours and 
a-half. 



118. 

Semolina Pudding. 

Blanch and pound to a soft paste six bitter and an 
ounce of sweet almonds ; put them into an enamelled 
saucepan, with six ounces of semolina, five ounces of 
loaf-sugar, and a pint of new milk ; boU, stirring con- 
stantly, for three quarters of an hour ; add two ounces 
of fresh butter, stir off the fire for ten minutes, then 
add five well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould, pour in the 
pudding, tie it over with writing-paper spread with 
butter, and steam over with fast boiling water for an 
hour and a half; or bake in a moderate oven for an 
hour. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



70 POOD FOB THE INVALID. 

119. 

BOILED Tapioca Pudding. 

Four ounces of the best tapioca boiled in a pint and 
a half of new milk for two hours ; add two ounces of 
fresh butter or half a giU of thick cream, four ounces of 
loaf sugar, an ounce of ratafia cakes ; beat well for ten 
minutes, then stir in briskly five fresh eggs, well beaten ; 
butter a mould, pour in the pudding, tie it over with 
writing-paper spread with butter, and steam over fast- 
boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out care- 
fully and serve with fruit sauce. (I. C. D. G.) 

120. 

RICE Pudding. 

Wash carefully a dessertspoonful of the best rice, 
boil it in half a pint of new milk for an hour and a half 
(longer, if not perfectly tender), stirring frequently; 
sweeten with four teaspoonfuls of sifted sugar. Beat 
the yolks of two new-laid eggs for ten minutes, during 
which time let the rice be off the fire ; stir in the eggs, 
and, when well-mixed, stir it over a gentle fire for one 
minute after it is at boiling-heat. Serve either hot or 
cold as the invalid may prefer. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

121. 

Oatmeal Pudding. 

Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal in a quarter 
of a pint of milk ; add to . it a pint of boiling milk, 
sweeten to taste and stir over the fire for ten minutes ; 



EECIPES. 71 

then put in two ounces of sifted bread crumbs; stir 
until the mixture is stiff, then add one ounce of shred 
suet and one well-beaten egg ; add a little flavouring or 
grated nutmeg. Put the pudding into a buttered dish 
and bake slowly for an hour. 

(I. C. D. G. E.) 

122. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water, 
then add a pound of loaf sugar, and the juice and rind 
of two lemons ; boU for ten minutes, then strain it into 
a mould. (I. C.) 

123. 

Goose pudding. 

Soak a quarter of a pound of scraps of bread in cold 
water for one hour, pour off the water and bruise the 
bread with a fork till it is smooth. Chop one large 
onion (previously boiled), mix it with the bread adding 
half an ounce of flour, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
powdered sage, half an ounce of dripping or butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
half that quantity of pepper. Grease a baking-tin; 
place the mixture in it, and put on the top one ounce 
of butter or dripping cut into small pieces. Bake in 
the oven for haK an hour. If there is no oven, put the 
tin on a hot hob or girdle for twenty minutes, then 
brown before the fire. Turn out of the tin and cut 
into four or six pieces. Serve hot or cold. (G. E.) 



72 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

124 

Eel Soup. 

Take three pounds of small eels ; put to them two 
quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, 
some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite 
broken, then strain off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, 
and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may 
be put in at first ; a quarter of pint of cream, with a 
teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great 
improvement. (I. C. D. G.) 

125. 

Eel Broth. 

Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on 
with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of 
onion, a few peppercorns ; let them simmer tUl the eels 
are broken and the broth good. Add salt and strain it 
off. The above should make three half pints of broth. 

(I. 0. D. G.) 

126. 

Stewed Eels. 

Skin and cut off the fins of an eel weighing two 
pounds ; put it on a gridiron over a bright quick fire for 
six minutes to draw out the fat, well scrape it, and cut 
it into pieces three inches long ; put it into a pie-dish 



EECIPES. 73 

with the strained juice of two lemons, a ealtspoonful of 
salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nut- 
meg, grated, a moderate-sized onion, chopped fine, a 
quarter of a clove of garlic, chopped, and a teaspoonful 
of tarragon vinegar ; well ruh the eel with this seasoning^ 
and let it remain for an hour. Dissolve two ounces of 
butter, dip each piece of eel in, and dredge it with 
baked flour. Fry to a nice brown colour over a quick 
fire (in two ounces of butter) for ten minutes. Put 
three-quarters of a pint of stock into a stewpac, with a 
teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a dessertspoonful of soy, 
a grain of cayenne, and a tablespoonful of baked flour ; 
stir till it boils. Put in the eel, boil up quickly, skim 
carefully, then simmer gently for twenty-five minutes. 
Add half a gill of port wine and serve. 

(I. C. G.) 

127. 

Eels, with Tartar Sauce. 

Have an eel weighii^ a pound and a half ; skin it, 
and cut off the fins ; put it into boiling water with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt, and 
let it remain five minutes ; cut it into three inch lengths, 
and roU it in a clean cloth to dry. Make a batter as 
follows : — Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with 
three tablespoonfuls of baked flour; add an ounce of 
dissolved butter and the third of a pint of tepid water ; 
beat quickly for ten minutes; let it stand in a cool 
place for two or three hours. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and add to a batter, continue to 
beat for ten minutes. Dip the eel into the batter, then 



74 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

fry it in iDoiliiig lard (enough to cover it) tUl of a pale 
brown colour (about twenty minutes), drain on a cloth 
before the fire. Place the eel in a circular form on a cold 
dish, and serve with the following sauce in the centre : — 
Eub the hard boiled yolks of three eggs to a powder, 
add a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, half a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, half a grain of cayenne, and the beaten yolk 
of one egg ; stir in drop by drop four tablespoonfuls of 
Lucca oil, two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and 
one tablespoonful of French vinegar; continue to stir 
tiU the sauce becomes a thick cream ; chop quite fine 
one shalot, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and one 
small gherkin ; stir these into the sauce, and serve (cold) 
as directed. ' (I. C. G.) 



12a 
Boiled Eels, with Parsley Sauce. 

The eel should weigh about one pound and a half 
when the skin and fins are removed, put it into plenty 
of cold water, with a tablespoonful of salt and a dessert- 
spoonful of vinegar ; boil up quickly, skim, and simmer 
gently for twenty-five minutes. Serve very hot, and 
with the following sauce. 

Knead three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of 
baked flour ; strain the third of a pint of the water the 
eel has been boiled in, and stir the butter into it ; boil 
ten minutes. Scald a bunch of parsley, chop it, and 
stir a good-sized teaspoonful into the sauce. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



RECIPES. 75 

129. 

Boiled Eel for Convalescents. 

The eel should weigh about three-quarters of a pound. 
Sliin it and cut off the fins. Place it on a gridiron 
over a bright fire at a distance for ten or twelve minutes 
to draw out the oily fat ; then scrape it well and wash 
it in warm water. Put it into a quart of hot water 
with a small teaspoonful of salt and a bunch of parsley 
and simmer gently for eighteen . or twenty minutes. 
Serve with a little of the water, with a few parsley 
leaves in it, poured over. 

(I C. G.) 

130. 

Fried Eels. 

Choose eels weighing two pounds each ; skin them 
and place them either in a Dutch oven before a quick 
fire, or on a gridiron, for eight minutes, to draw out the 
fat ; split them down the thin part, take out the back- 
bone, cut off the fins, scrape the outside and cut them 
into pieces three inches long. Have three ounces of 
dried crumbs of bread and two well-beaten eggs, dip 
each piece of eel into the egg and then into the crumbs 
and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to thoroughly cover 
them) over a gentle fire (about twenty-five minutes) tUl 
of a pale yellow colour. Serve with melted butter, or 
other sauce in a tureen. 

(J. C. G.) 



76 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

131. 

Stock for Brown or White Fish Soups. 

Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two 
pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into 
pieces; cover them with water; season with mace, 
pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of 
celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs. Simmer an hour and a half, closely covered, 
and then strain off for use. If for brown soup first 
fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It 
will not keep more than two or three days. 



132. 
Oyster Soup. 

Three dozen oysters, one quart of veal broth, quarter 
of a pint of cream, one ounce of butter, three-quarters 
of an ounce of flour, salt, pepper or cayenne, and mace 
to taste. Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard 
them and put them into a tureen. Put the beards and 
liquor into the broth and simmer for half an hour, then 
strain, season, bring to a* boil, add the thickening of 
butter or flour, simmer for five minutes, stir in the 
boiling cream and pour over the oysters, and serve. 

May be made less rich by using milk iastead of 
cream. 

(I. C. G.) 



EECIPES. 77 

133. 

Oyster Soup. (No. 2.) 

Have four dozens of oysters fresh opened; take oif 
the beards, and throw the oysters into a pint of cold 
water with the strained juice of a lemon in it. ?ut the 
beards into two quarts of stock and boil up. Mix 
three tablespoonfuls of baked flour with half a pint of 
the oyster liquor, and stir into the soup ; boil fast for a 
quarter of an hour. Strain through a fine sieve; add 
the oysters and the strained juice of a lemon. Simmer 
very gently for eight minutes, stir in a giU of thick 
cream, and serve immediately. 

(I. C. G.) 

134. 

Prawn Soup. 

Have a fine hen lobster and fifty prawns, quite fresh 
boUed ; cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, 
and put it with the shells into a stewpan, with an onion 
sliced, two ounces of butter and a quart of water. Boil 
for one hour ; then add two quarts of stock. Mix four 
tablespoonfuls of dry flour with half a pint of cold 
stock, and stir into the soup till it thickens ; then boil 
half an hour longer, and strain through a sieve. Take 
off the shells carefully, and put the prawns into the 
soup ; boil up for six minutes. Add three-quarters of 
a pint of sweet thick cream and serve immediately. 

(I. C! G.) 



78 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

135. 

Lobster Soup. 

Take the meat from the bodies, claws, and tails, of 
six small lobsters ; take away the brown fur, and the 
bag in the head ; beat the fins, chine, and small claws in 
a mortar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, 
with the crumb of a French roU, some white pepper, 
salt, two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a 
bit of lemon peel, till you have extracted the goodness 
of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar 
with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea- 
spoonful of flour ; mix it with one quart of cream. Cut 
the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the 
soup. Serve with forcemeat balls made of the remainder 
of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an 
egg or two ; let the balls be made up with a little flour, 
and heated in the soup. (I. C G.) 

136. 

Red Mullet in Paper. 

Wash the miillet ; rub each one with a teaspoonful of 
salad oil, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a quarter of a 
saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, the 
twelfth part of a nutmeg, grated ; put them into a dish, 
and strew over them a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
two shalots, finely chopped, and let them saturate for 
three hours. Spread a sheet of foolscap paper (for each 
muUet) with an ounce of butter ; put in the muUet, and 
roll the edges neatly and closely to prevent the butter 



RECIPES. 79 

escaping, aud broil over a gentle fire, or fry in plenty 
of boiling lard, for twenty or twenty-five minutes 
(according to size). Serve in the paper, with or without 
the following sauce in a tureen. (I. C. D. G.) 

137. 

Sauce for Red Mullet. 

Pound the yolks of three hard boiled eggs with a tea- 
spoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, half 
a saltspoonful of white pepper, a tablespoonful of 
baked flour, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, and 
three ounces of dissolved butter; add half a pint of 
cold water. Eub a saucepan across the bottom with a 
fresh cut garlic put in the sauce, and stir over a brisk 
fire till it boils ; add a tablespoonful of finely-chopped 
parsley, boil up and serve at once. 

138. 
Red Mullet, Baked. 

Wash the mullet, and rub it well with lemon juice ; 
put it in a tin dish with a large mushroom, finely 
chopped, two shalots chopped, three thin slices of canot, 
and four sprigs of parsley, chopped, a saltspoonful of 
salt, the same of white pepper, a quarter of a pint of 
Marsala ; bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes 
for three-quarters of an hour. Baste constantly with 
dissolved butter (six ounces for three fish) ; serve with 
the sauce poured over the mullet. 

Note. — This receipt is written for a large mullet. 

(I. C. G.~) 



80 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

139. 

Mustard Sauce for Fresh Herrings; 

Knead a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and a tea- 
spoonful of flour of mustard with three ounces of hjitter, 
and stir into a gOl of boiling water ; boil five minutes ; 
add a teaspoonful of vinegar and serve. 

140. 

Boiled Herrings. 

Put them into boiling water with a wineglassful of 
vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt, and simmer ten 
minutes ; serve on a napkin with the preceding sauce in 
a tureen. 

(J. G. E.) 

141. 

Baked Herrings. 

Take off the heads of six herrings ; put them into a 
deep dish and season with a saltspoonful of pepper, a 
teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, two 
cloves, four allspice, six peppercorns, a blade of mace, 
half an inch of bruised ginger, and a teaspoonful of 
grated horseradish ; add a giU of cold water and a gill 
of good vinegar. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. 
Serve cold, with the sauce strained, and a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped chives added. 

(I.e. G.E.) 



EECIPES. 81 

142. 

Herrings, Fresh. 

Cut off the head, tail, and Ads ; split the fish down 
the back and remove the bone ; close the fish, and broil 
for six minutes over a bright fire ; rub the inner side 
over with fresh butter and serve very hot. 

(G. E.) 

143. 

Rolled Herrings. 

Herrings having hard roes appear larger and finer 
fish than those with soft roes ; nevertheless the latter 
are to be preferred, as they have really more flesh, and 
are more delicate. Having scraped and washed the 
fish, cut off the heads, split open, cleanse, and take out 
the roes. Take the herring in the left hand, and with 
the thumb and finger of the right press the backbone to 
loosen it, then lay the fish flat on the board and draw out 
the bone ; it will come out whole, leaving none behind. 
Sprinkle the herring with pepper, salt, and a little 
chopped green parsley; lay on the soft roe, roU up 
tightly, leaving the fin and tail outwards, and bind 
round with a piece of tape to keep it in shape. Have 
ready some water well seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
vinegar, and when it boils, put in the herring and let 
it simmer gently for ten minutes, or until cooked. 
Serve it with butter, parsley, or sharp egg sauce poured 
over. (G. E ) 

G 



82 POOD FOR THE INVALID. 

144. 
Baked Sprats. 

Follow the preceding receipt exactly, except for time ; 
eighteen minutes will be sufficient. 

(I. C. G. E.) 

145. 

Broiled Sprats. 

Wash the sprats in cold water, and wipe them quite 
dry ; place them on a folding wire gridiron, and broil 
over a quick bright fire for six or eight minutes. Serve 
very hot, and only a few at a time, as they spoil if not 
eaten immediately. (I. C. G. E.) 

146. 

Mock Whitebait. 

Cut into strips an inch and a half long, and a quarter 
of an inch broad, either whiting or brill. Make a bat- 
ter with two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of dried flour, half 
a saltspoonful of salt, and a third of a pint of new milk ; 
beat the batter for half an hour at least before using. 
Have a bright frying-pan half full of boiling salad oil^ 
dip the pieces of fish into the batter, and fry quickly to 
a pale brown colour. Serve very hot, piled lightly on 
the dish (uncovered). A cut lemon, cayenne, and very 
thin brown bread and butter should be added. 

(I, C. G. E.) 



EEOIPES, 83 

147, 

Baked Haddock. 

Eub the fish over with the juice of a lemon and a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and let it stand three hours ; season 
two ounces of crumbs of bread with half a saltspoonful 
of salt, the same of white pepper, the eighth part of a 
nutmeg, grated, half a grain of cayenne, and the grated 
rind of half a lemon ; beat one egg. Wipe the fish quite 
dry, brush it over with egg, and strew it with the 
crumbs ; place the fish on a wire drainer — ^raised about 
an inch from the dish under it — put it into a moderate 
oven ; baste with dissolved butter (a quarter of a pound) 
and bake twenty-five or thirty minutes — unless a large 
fish, then five minutes longer. Strain the liquor over the 
fish and serve immediately. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

148. 

Stewed Whiting. 

Take off the skin and the heads and taUs, lay the fish 
in a stewpan, and season each one with a quarter of a 
saltspoonful of salt, one grain of white pepper, a quarter 
of a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, and 
for the whole (four or six) the grated rind of half a 
a lemon. Pour in a quarter of a pound of dissolved 
butter, simmer for ten minutes ; add a large wine glass- 
ful of marsala, and the strained juice of a lemon ; 
simmer five minutes more ; place the fish neatly on a 
hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Send to table 
immediately. (I. C. D. G.) 

G 2 



Si FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

149-. 

Boiled Whiting. 

Whiting should be large for boiling, and with the 
skin taken off it is more delicate. Put it into boiling 
water, and simmer from twelve to eighteen minutes 
according to the size ; skim well. Drain, and serve on 
a neatly folded napkin, with either melted butter or white 
sauce in a tureen. (L C. D. G.) 

150. 

Fried Whiting, 

Small or moderate-sized whiting should be selected, 
the skin taken off, and the tail put into the mouth so as 
to be in the form of a ring. "Well dry the fish, dip each 
into beaten egg, and strew it over with very fine dried 
crumbs of bread, and fry in boiling fat (enough to com- 
pletely cover the fish) tiU of a pale brown colour (about 
ten minutes). (I. C. D. G.) 

151. 

Boiled Plaice. 

Large plaice is best for boiling ; put it into plenty of 
hot water, with a tablespoonful of salt and a wineglass- 
ful of vinegar ; boil up quickly, skim, and then simmer 
gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Serve with 
either shrimp sauce or melted butter in a tureen. 

(I. 0. G. E.) 



, EBCIPES. 85: 

152. 

English Sauce, 

, This is the one sauce by which we are known. But 
there is room for improvement even in this solitary one, 
for it is not dif&cult to bring to mind the pasty abomina- 
tions usually served under this name. The following 
method wiU be found satisfactory. Mix until quite 
smooth equal propoi-tions of flour and butter, with, 
boiling mUk or water ; add a very little salt, white 
pepper and a mere suggestion of nutmeg. Let it boil 
for two or three minutes and pass it through the strainer. 
Keep it hot until wanted, and just before removing from 
the fire add a little cream and stir in with the whisk a 
good-sized piece of fresh butter ; it must not boil after 
this butter is added, but be served at once. 

For vegetables, such as cauliflower or asparagus, add 
lemon juice or white wine vinegar. 

153. 
Boiled Sole. 

A sole for boiling should weigh at least two pounds ; 
it must be well scaled, but the skin left on both sides. 
Put it into plenty of cold water, with a tablespoonful 
of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil up quickly^ 
skim, then simmer for a quarter of an hour. Serve 
upon a folded napkin, the white side uppermost, and 
with either melted butter, white, or shrimp sauce in a 
tureen. (I, C. G.) 



86 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

154 

Fillets of Soles with White Sauce. 

Cut two soles into eight fillets ; place them in a stew- 
pan rubhed six times across the bottom with garlic ; 
pour over a quarter of a pound of dissolved butter, add 
a saltspoonfal of salt, half a saltspoouful of white 
pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated 
rind of half a lemon, and one shalot chopped as fine 
as possible ; simmer ten minutes. Add a wineglassful 
of white wine and the strained juice of a lemon ; simmer 
five minutes more ; then serve with the following sauce 
poured over. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with a 
gill of good cream, strain the sauce in which the fish 
was stewed, skim off the butter, mix the sauce with the 
cream, and stir it over the fire tOl it thickens. Then 
serve as directed above. (I. C. G.) 

155. 

Buttered Soles. 

Eub a tin dish four times across the bottom with 
fresh-cut garlic ; wipe the soles dry, and dredge them 
with baked flour. Lay them in the dish with six 
ounces of butter (for two soles), and bake in a 
moderately heated oven for half an hour, or forty 
minutes if the soles be very thick. Serve on a very 
hot dish, with the butter poured over, and a tea spoonful 
of finely chopped chives or parsley sprinkled over the 
soles. (I. C. G.) 



RECIPES. 87 

156. 

Fillets of Soles, with Mussel Sauce. 

Fillet a pair of moderate-sized soles; wash and 
wipe them dry, mb them over with lemon juice and 
let them stand for an hour. Clean two quarts of 
mussels; put them into a saucepan with half a clove 
of garlic, a blade of mace, a laurel leaf, four sprigs of 
parsley, an inch of thin lemon peel, one clove, two 
all-spice, and a dessertspoonful of salt (no water), shake 
the pan constantly till the mussels open, then turn 
them into an earthen pan. Pull out the weed from 
under the black tongue, and remove the beard from 
each mussel; strain the liquor; put the soles into a 
stewpan with half a gill of the liquor, two ounces 
of butter, and' a wineglassful of madeira or marsala; 
boil up quickly ; then simmer for fifteen minutes. Put 
the remainder of the mussel liquor into a small sauce- 
pan, boil up, and skim ; put in the mussels, boil for two 
minutes ; then add the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs 
with half a gill of thick cream ; stir till smooth. Lay 
the soles neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and 
serve at once. (I. C. G. E.) 

157. 

Fillets of Sole au Gratin. 

Cut the sole into small fillets, skin them, season 
them with pepper and salt, put them on a buttered dish, 
— one nice enough to send to the table, cover them 
thickly, with breadcrumbs and a little grated cheese 



88 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

(Parmesan is the best, but any other dry cheese will do), 
wet with a little good stock, put bits of butter over the 
top, brown them evenly and nicely in a quick oven, and 
send to the table at once. Whiting or any other solid 
fish may be cooked in the same way. 

(I. C. G.) 

158, 

Sole au Vin Blanc. 

Put the sole, after it has been trimmed, into a fish- 
pan, and with it some slices of onion, a faggot of sweet 
herbs, a couple of cloves, some peppercorns and salt. 
Spread some butter over the sole, and pour in enough 
French white wine to cover it. Let it boil for ten to 
twenty minutes, according to size of fish. Keep it 
covered while it is boiling. When it is done, remove 
the fish, keep it hot while making the sauce. Strain 
the liquor, return it to the pan, and add the yolks of 
one or two eggs according to the quantity of liquor; 
only do not put too much egg, just enough to thicken 
the sauce is required. Put in a little chopped parsley ; 
pour the sauce over the fish when thoroughly hot, and 
serve at once. (I. C. D. G.) 

159. 

Oysters (to feed). 

Put them into water, and wash them with a birch 
broom till quite clean; then lay them bottom down- 
wards in a pan, sprinkle with fiour or oatmeal, and salt, 
and cover with water. Do the same every day and 
they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. 



EECIPES. 89 

160. 

To Stew Oysters. 

Open, and separate the liquor from them, strain the 
liquor and put with the oysters a bit of mace and 
lemon peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them 
very gently, and put some cream and a little flour and 
butter. Serve with sippets. (I. C. D. G.) 

161. 

Boiled Oysters. 

Let the shells be nicely cleaned, boil four minutes, 
and serve in them ; to be eaten with cold butter. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

162. 

To Scallop Oysters. 

Put six or eight oysters (large) into a scallop shell, or 
saucer, with plenty of bread crumbs, season with pepper, 
a little salt, nutmeg, and a small piece of butter, moisten 
with their own liquor. Put a few little bits of butter 
on the top, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven 
till a nice light brown; ten minutes to a quarter of 
an hour. (I. C. G.) 

163. 

Oyster Loaves. 

Open them and save the liquor, washing the oysters 
in it. Then strain it through a sieve, put into a stew- 



90 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

pan with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a 
scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew the oysters 
gently, and cut in dice ; put into rolls sold for the 
purpose. (C. G.) 

164 

Oyster Patties. 

Put a fine pufF crust into small patty pans, and cover 
with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; against they are 
baked have oysters ready to fill in, taking out the leards. 
Beard the oysters, cut the other parts in small dice, 
and put into small stewpan with a grate of nutmeg, 
a little white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon peel 
cut so small as hardly to be seen, a little cream, a little 
of the oyster liquor. Simmer a few minutes before 
you fill the crusts. (G. G.) 

165. 

Oyster Pie. 

As you open the oysters, separate them from the 
liquor, which strain ; parboil them after taking off the 
beards. Parboil some sweetbreads, and cutting them 
in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers in a pie- 
dish, season lightly with salt, pepper, and mace. Then 
put in half a teacup of liquor and the same of gravy. 
Bake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, add a tea- 
cup of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and cup of 
white gravy, aU warmed, but not boiled. 

(0. G.) 



EBCIPES. 91 

166. 
Fried Oysters, 

Boil tte liquor and strain it over the oysters ; let 
them remain till cold. Mix three tablespoonfuls of 
baked flour with the third of a pint of the oyster 
liquor, and the strained juice of one lemon till in a 
smooth batter ; add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, 
beat the batter for twenty minutes. Dry and beard 
the oysters. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth; mix them well with the batter, throw in the 
oysters ; then fry them in plenty of boiling lard till of 
a pale yellow-brown. They will require aboub eight 
minutes. Drain on a sieve before the fire for one 
minute and serve them very hot. 

NoxE. — Large oysters are best for frying. 

(I. C. D.) 

167. 

Grilled Oysters. 

Put the oysters unopened on a gridiron ; as soon as 
they open slightly insert a small piece of fresh butter 
mixed with a little cayenne ; when quite open, they are 
done. Serve in both shells. About seven minutes will 
be required for dressing them. (I. C. G.) 

168. 

Oysters on Toast. 

Open twelve very large oysters, put them in a pan 
with their liquor, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, 



92. FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

a wineglass of milk, two cloves, and a small piece of 
mace ; toil a few minutes until set, mix one ounce of 
butter with half an ounce of flour, put it in small pieces 
in the pan, stir round ; when near boiling, pour over the 
toast, and serve. A little sugar and the juice of a lemon 
is a great improvement. (I. C. D. G.) 

169. 
Salmon Pudding 

Boil three ounces of crumbs of bread in the third of 
a pint of new milk till it becomes a smooth paste ; 
then turn it on a plate to get cold. Beat three ounces 
of fresh butter to a cream, pound half a pound of 
boiled salmon till in a paste ; beat the yolks of four 
and the whites of two eggs for ten minutes. Mix all 
these well together ; add a piece of garlic the size of 
a pea, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of thick 
anchovy sauce, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, the 
tenth part of a nutmeg, gxated, and half a grain of 
cayenne. Continue to pound tOl the seasoning is 
mixed with the other ingredients ; then roll it into a 
bolster shape, six inches lon^ ; dredge it well with baked 
flour, and put it into half a sheet of foolscap paper, 
thickly spread with butter. Eoll it in a pudding-cloth, 
secure both ends, place it in a steamer over fast-boiling 
water for thirty-five minutes. Turn out carefully and 
serve with parsley sauce. (I. C. G.) 

170. 

Salmon in Potato Paste. 

Mash six mealy potatoes with a wooden spoon till 
quite smooth, add two saltspoonfuls of salt. Divide 



RECIPES. 93 

about half a pound of cold boiled salmon into very 
small pieces, freed from skin and bone. Mix it well 
together with the potatoes and put into a flat dish ; 
smooth over the top with a knife, and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes. (I. 0. D. G.) 



171. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Have the third of a pint of nicely picked fresh- 
boiled shrimps; put half of them into a mortar and 
pound to a smooth paste ; add three tablespoonfuls of 
thick fresh cream. Knead three ounces of fresh butter 
with a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir into half 
a pint of boiling water. Boil eight minutes, put in the 
whole shrimps, simmer three minutes, then stir in the 
shrimp cream. Serve immediately. (I. C. G.) 

172. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Wash four anchovies in hot water, scrape them, and 
take out the bones ; pound the fish to a smooth paste, 
mix with it a quarter of a grain of cayenne, the strained 
juice of half a lemon, and the third of a pint of cold 
water. Put it into a saucepan, boil up and strain; 
knead together four ounces of butter and a tablespoon- 
ful of baked floui;, stir it iAto the sauce, and boil for 
ten minutes. Add one tablespoonful of good cream, 
and serve at once. (I. C. G.) 



94 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

173. 

Genoa Sauce. 

Clean and bone four ancliovies, put them into a mortar 
with a tablespoonful of capers, a quarter of a clove of 
garlic, a teaspoonful of curry powder, a saltspoonful of 
flour of mustard, and pound tUl quite smooth ; 
moisten with a wineglassful of marsala, a wineglass- 
ful of the caper vinegar, and three wineglassfuls of 
cold water; put this into a saucepan and boil up. 
Knead a tablespoonful of baked flour with a quarter 
of a pound of butter; skim the sauce, stir in the 
thickening, boil fast for ten minutes, strain, and serve. 

(C. G.) 

174. 

Naples Sauce. 

Peel and shred four shalots, the third of a clove of 
garlic, half a giU of fresh-boiled and picked shrimps, 
two fine anchovies, and a tablespoonful of capers. Put 
them into an enamelled saucepan with the strained 
juice of two lemons, and stir over the fire for ten 
minutes. Add three-quarters of a pint of stock, a 
small blade of mace, one clove, and haK a grain of 
cayenne. Boil gently for twenty minutes ; knead two 
tablespoonfuls of baked flour with six ounces of good 
butter, and stir in. Boil five minutes, strain through a 
fine hair sieve, put it again into the saucepan, add the 
strained juice of another lemon, and when on the point 
of boiling, take it oif the fire, and stir in quickly a gill 
of thick fresh cream. Serve immediately. (C. G.) 



RECIPES. 95 

175. 

Fried Cod and Oysters. 

Cut the cod into slices tliree-quarters of an inch 
thick ; rub each slice with a teaspoouful of vinegar and 
a saltspoonful of salt, and let it remain for two hours. 
Wipe it dry, dredge it over with baked flour, and fry in 
butter over a slow fire eighteen or twenty minutes. 
Make a batter with half a pint of milk, three table- 
spoonfuls of baked flour, and one egg. .Beat it well, 
wipe the oysters, put them into the batter. When the 
cod is done, pour the batter over, and serve at once. 
Fried slices of cod may also be served with two shalots, 
finely chopped, and the strained juice of a lemon poured 
over. Three slices of cod and three dozen of oysters 
will require half a pound of butter. 

(I. C. G.) 

176. 

Boiled Cod with Oyster Sauce. 

Put a sufficient quantity of salt into the water to 
flavour it, and also a wineglassful of vinegar ; put the fish 
into boiling water, and let it simmer very gently till done, 
skim once or twice. If the cod be in slices or crimped, 
from eighteen to twenty minutes will be sufficient; 
but if in a large piece, or a head and shoulders, from 
half an hour to forty minutes will be required. Serve 
upon a napkin, garnish with finely scraped horse-radish 
and sprigs of parsley. (I. C. G.) 



96 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

177. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Take off the beards of two dozen fresh-opened oysters ; 
put the oysters into a hasin of cold water with the 
strained juice of a lemon in it; boil the beards in the 
liquor with a small blade of mace for ten minutes ; 
knead three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of 
baked flour, strain the liquor, stir in the thickening, 
boil five minutes, drain the oysters, put them into the 
sauce, simmer five minutes, stir in half a gill of thick 
fresh cream, and serve at once. 



178. 

Cod with Potato Wall. 

Divide the cold cod into flakes, take off the skin, and 
remove all the bones. To half a pound, add a salt- 
spoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, 
and half a grain of cayenne. Boil six mealy potatoes, 
mash them quite smooth ; add two ounces of dissolved 
butter, two saltspoonfuls of salt, and the tenth part of 
a nutmeg, grated. Put a layer of potato on the dish, 
place the fish on it, and cover over with the rest of the 
potatoes. Smooth the top over with a knife, and bake 
in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve in the 
same dish. (I. C. D. G. E.) 



RECIPES, 9Y 

179. 

Rice and Cod Liver, 

Boil half a pound of rice in two quarts of water. 
When nearly done, remove three parts of the water ; 
then put over your rice a pound of cod's liver, cut in 
large dice. Put the saucepan in a slow oven for ahout 
thirty minutes, by which time it will he nicely cooked. 
Then take the liver out, stir the rice with a fork, and 
and serve it ; if allowed by a medical man, add a little 
salt and pepper. If no oven, cook the liver and rice 
on a very slow fire, for otherwise it would burn, and be 
unwholesome as food. (Old form.) 

Of course it is easy to see what a blessing such a 
diet as this was to a person incapable of taking the 
oil by itself, as, by mixing it with the food, it entirely 
lost that rancid quality for which it was proverbial, 

(I. C. G.) 
180. 

Tapioca and Cod Liver. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of tapioca till tender in 
two quarts of water, drain it in a cuUender, then put it 
back in the pan ; season with a little salt and pepper, 
add half a pint of mOk, put over one pound of fresh 
cod liver, cut in eight pieces. Set your pan near the 
fire to simmer slowly for half an hour (tUl your liver is 
quite cooked). Press on it with a spoon, so as to get 
as much oil into the tapioca as possible. After taking 
away the Hver, mix the tapioca ; if too thick, add a 
little milk, then boil it a few minutes, stir round and 
serve. (Old form.) (I. C. G.) 

H 



98 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

181. 

Cod Roe: and Cod Liver. 

Take a cod's liver and roe, cut open the skin whicli 
surrounds it; put the eggs in a tasin, pour water 
over them, mashing them with the hand, to separate 
them, throwing away the water ; add half a pound of 
salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper; let them soak all 
night, afterwards washing them well in two or three 
waters, leaving ahout a gill at the bottom; then put 
about two pounds of cod liver over it cut in six or 
eight pieces, putting the stewpan either on a very slow 
fire or in an oven for one hour ; then take out the liver, 
which serve as usual. Add about a gill of melted 
butter in the roe, when it wUl be ready. (I. 0. G.) 



182. 

Cod's Hard Roe. 

Tie a cod's roe in a cloth, place in a pan two quarts 
of water and two teaspoonfuls of salt ; put in the roe, 
boU gently for one hour, take it out, cut off as much as 
you require, put it in a dish, pour over parsley and 
butter, and serve ; or egg, or plain sauce, with a little 
butter and pepper. (C. G.) 



RECIPES. 99 

183. 
Cod's Sounds, Melt, and Frill. 

Nothing is more delicate than this dish. Boil thirty 
minutes in boiling salt and water. Dish it up, pour 
thick egg sauce over. 

The first-mentioned, if salted, must be weU-soaked. 

(C. G.) 

184. 

Ling, Fresh. 

Take one pound of ling, cut it into pieces three- 
quarters of an inch thick, rub it with pepper and salt, 
and put it on the gridiron over a clear fire ; in about 
ten minutes it will be done. Serve it plain, or with a 
little melted butter and chopped parsley, lemon, or 
vinegar ; or with a little piece of the liver chopped up 
and boiled in the sauce. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

185. 

Boiled Turbot. 

Wash the fish, rub it over with lemon juice and a 
tablespoonful of salt, and let it remain an hour. Put it 
into plenty of cold water, with a tablespoonful of salt 
and a wineglassful of white vinegar. Place the kettle 
over a brisk fire, and when on the point of boiling, draw 
it aside ; skim, and simmer gently tiU done. A large 

H 2 



100 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

turbot will require about tbree-quarters of an hour ; one 
of eight pounds, half an hour ; and a small one, twenty- 
minutes. Serve on a n,apkin, and with lobster sauce in 
a tureen. (I. C. D. G.) 

186. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Take the meat out of the tail and claws of a fine 
fresh-boiled hen lobster ; cut it into pieces the third of 
an inch square. Break up the head and shell, bruise a 
saltspoonful of live spawn, put them into a saucepan 
with a pint of water and a blade of mace, and boil for 
twenty minutes ; strain through a fine sieve ; put the 
liquor into a saucepan. Knead six ounces of butter 
with two tablespoonfuls of baked flour and stir in. Boil 
a quarter of an hour, add the pieces of lobster and a 
dessertspoonful of strained lemon juice. Boil five 
minutes more, stir in a wineglassful of thick cream, and 
serve. (C. G.) 

187. 

Anchovy Toast with White Sauce. 

Bon half a pint of new mUk with a bay leaf and a 
laurel leaf ; beat six eggs, leaving out two of the whites, 
take out the leaves, and mix the eggs and Tnilk together. 
Add a gill of thick fresh cream, and stir over a gentle 
fire till it begins to thicken ; let it stand to get cold ; 
stir it frequently while cooling. Scald ten anchovies, 
scrape them, and remove the bones ; pound the fish to 
a smooth paste, cut two rounds of bread, without crust, 



RECIPES. 101 

ofif a small loaf, one day old, toast it on both sides, and 
weU butter it with fresh butter ; spread each piece of 
bread with the anchovy paste, lay one on the other, and 
cut them into six pieces. Pour over the white sauce 
and serve. 

Note. — The bread should be half an inch thick 

(I. C. G.) 
188. 

TuRBOT EN Coquettes. 

Turbot that has been left from the day before will do 
quite as weU for this dish as fresh turbot. If fresh, 
boil imtil tender in salt and water, let it get cold, then 
remove the meat from the bone, shredding it finely. 
Procure a dozen scallop shells, and put a tablespoonful 
of the fish in each ; have ready some cream sauce, pour 
enough into each shell to cover the fish, spread over the 
top some grated cheese and bread crumbs, and finish 
with small pieces of butter. Bake in a quick oven 
until a nice golden -brown ; serve at once. Sole or plaice 
can also be cooked in this way. (C. G.) 

189. 

Brill. 

Brill is dressed precisely as turbot, and the same 
sauce served with it. (1. C. D. G.) 

190. 

Broiled Mackerel. 

Split the mackerel down the back with a very sharp 
knife ; season each fish with half a saltspoonful of salt, the 



102 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

same of black pepper, and the strained juice of half a 
lemon, and let them stand for two hours. Dip them into 
dissolved butter (for each half an ounce), and broil over 
a clear fire for ten to twelve minutes. A folding 
gridiron is best, as they require much care ia turning. 

Serve with or without chives, butter sauce poured 
over. (I. C. G.) 



191. 

Boiled Mackerel. 

Mackerel must be perfectly fresh. Put it into nearly 
boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt; boil up, 
then simmer gently for a quarter of an hour or eighteen 
minutes, according to the size of the fish ; be careful 
to skim. Serve on a folded napkin, and with fennel 
sauce. (I. C. D. G.) 

192. 

Soused Mackerel. 

Mix half a pint of the best vinegar with half a pint 
of water, six peppercorns, two allspice, half a grain of 
cayenne, a tablespoonful of salt, and a bay leaf; boil 
for five minutes. Split the mackerel (which has been 
boiled) down the back, take out the bone; lay the fish 
in a deep dish and when the pickle is nearly cold, strain 
it over; let it remain twelve hours before serving. 
Serve on a flat dish, and garnish with sprigs of fennel. 

(I. C. G.) 



EECIPES. 103 

193. 

Fennel Sauce. 

Dip a bunch of fennel into boiling salt and water 
and boil for two minutes ; squeeze out the water, and 
chop the fennel quite fine (leaving out the stalks) ; knead 
three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of baked 
flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling water. Boil 
ten minutes, stir in a tablespoonful of the chopped 
fennel, and serve at once. 

194 

Boiled Haddock with Anchovy Sauce. 

"Well wash the fish, and rub it over with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a dessertspoonful of salt ; let 
it remain one hour. Put it into plenty of cold water 
with a dessertspoonful of salt ; boil up quickly, skim, 
and simmer as gently as possible till done. A moderate- 
sized fish will require a quarter of an hour, a large one 
about twenty-five minutes ; if overdone, it becomes hard 
and tasteless. Serve on a neatly folded napkin, with 
anchovy sauce in a tureen. . (I. C. D. G.) 

195. 

Boiled Trout. 

Put the fish into nearly boiling water with a table- 
spoonful of salt, boU up quickly, then simmer till done. 
A trout weighing one pound will require twelve minutes; 



104 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

two pounds, fifteen minutes; three pounds, twenty- 
minutes. After the water boUs, skimming must be 
carefully attended to. Serve on a neatly folded napkin, 
with a tureen of good melted butter, unless other sauce 
be ordered. (I. C. D. G.) 



196, 

Boiled Skate. 

Put the fish into plenty of cold water with a table- 
spoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil 
up quickly, skim, and simmer for five minutes. Serve 
immediately on a neatly folded napkin, with either of 
the following sauces in a tureen. (I. 0. D. G.) 



197. 

White Sauce for Skate, 

Knead three ounces of butter with a dessertspoonful 
of baked flour, and stir into a gill of boiling water, boil 
five minutes. Add the strained juice of a lemon. 

198. 

Dissolved butter for Skate. 

Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley ; simmer three minutes, and serve. 



EECIPES. 105 

199. 

Whitebait. 

First thoroughly flour them, hut shake off all the 
flour that does not adhere closely. Have ready some 
smoking beef fat or lard ; put the fish iu a wire basket, 
and suspend in the boiling fat until they grow crisp 
and white, but not long enough to brown them ; take 
out, and sprinkle "with dry salt and a little cayenne. 

(C. G.) 
200. 

John Dory with Caper Sauce. 

Eub the fish -with a spoonful of vinegar, put it into 
cold water with a tablespoonful of salt ; boil up quickly, 
skim, and then simmer for twenty or five-and-twenty 
minutes. Great care is required in boiling this fish 
that the skin may not break. Serve on a napkin, with 
the following sauce in a tureen. 

Note. — The recipe is written for a fish weighing five 
or six pounds. (I. C. G.) 

201. 

Caper Sauce for Fish. 

Pound a tablespoonful of fresh-boiled shrimps and 
a tablespoonful of capers ; knead together three ounces 
of butter and a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir 
into the third of a pint of boiling water. Add the 
pounded capers and shrimps with a dessertspoonful of 
whole capers ; boil for ten minutes, and serve. 



106 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

202. 

Fried Smelts. 

Well dry the smelts, dip them into heaten egg, and 
dredge them over with fine dried crumbs of bread. Do 
this a second time, and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to 
entirely cover the fish) to a pale yellow-brown colour — 
about eight minutes. Serve either as a garnish to 
boiled fish or piled in the form of a tower on neatly 
folded writing-paper, with a tureen of melted butter 
made as follows : — Knead three ounces of butter with 
a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third 
of a pint of boiling water ; add two tablespoonfuls of 
new milk, boil ten minutes, serve. (I. C. G.) 



203. 

Mayonnaise Sauce, 

Take one yolk of a raw egg, salt, pepper, and a little 
raw mustard. Mix these together with a silver fork in 
a large plate, add salad oil slowly, little by little ; it wiU 
take almost any quantity, but you must be guided 
by taste and the quantity required. Mix by stirring 
one way until quite thick and smooth ; then add vinegar 
enough to thin it a little. If there is any difficulty 
found in getting the oil to mix smoothly, add just a few 
drops of vinegar from time to time and keep stirring, 
and it will finally come right. 



RECIPES. 107 

204. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

This is mostly used with vegetables, such as cauli- 
flower, asparagus, or artichokes, but is equally good with 
fish. Mix equal quantities of butter and flour together 
over the fire until quite smooth, add a little boiling 
water, and after taking off the fire, add the yolks of 
two eggs slowly, and nutmeg and lemon juice according 
to taste. It should be about the thickness of good 
cream, and quite smooth. 

205. 

Lobster Patties, 

Make a paste, and proceed as directed in Number 
164 receipt, using lobster instead of oysters. Take 
the meat out of a good-sized hen lobster, and chop it 
small; put the shells into half a pint of milk, with 
half an inch of mace, the thin rind of h^li a lemon, 
the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a grain of 
cayenne, a grain of white pepper, a quarter of a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and simmer for ten minutes, then 
strain. Put the lobster into the milk, and simmer for 
five minutes. Stir a dessertspoonful of Oswego flour into 
half a gUl of thick cream, and add to the rest ; stir tiU 
it thickens, then fill the patties. as directed. (C. G.) 

206. 

Salt Fish. 

Soak the fish for two days, changing the water fre- 
quently ; put it on in plenty of cold water ; when it i.s 



108 FOOD POK THE INVALID. 

just on the boil, skim well, and let it simmer half an 
hour. Serve on a napkin, with egg-sauce in a tureen, 
and parsnips in a vegetable dish. (I. C. G. E.) 



207. 

Egg Sauce. 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes, cut them into pieces 
the size of a pea ; knead a quarter of a pound of butter 
with a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir into half a 
pint of boiling water. Boil ten minutes, put in the 
eggs, boil three minutes more, and serve. 



208. 

Potted Trout. 

Split six or eight moderate-sized fish, take out the 
bones, cut off the heads, tails, and fins. WeU wash and 
wipe the trout; pack them (the backs uppermost) in 
a pie-dish that will just contain them by pressing. Put 
into a piece of muslin a bay and a laurel leaf, two 
cloves, four allspice, eight peppercorns, two chOlies, and 
half an inch of ginger ; lay this bag on the fish. Add 
three saltspoonfuls of dry salt, and ten ounces of good 
butter in slices. Cover the dish with strong white 
paper, tie it closely down, and bake in a slow oven for 
an hour and three quarters. Take out the bag, keep the 
fish in a cool place tiU required. Serve cold. 

(I. C. D. G.) 



RECIPES. 109 

209. 

Potted Lobster. 

The lobsters must be quite fresh. Take out the meat 
and pound it to a smooth paste ; season (to half a pound) 
with a saltspoonful of good anchovy sauce, three-quarters 
of a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, 
the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and three ounces 
of dissolved butter. Pound till well mixed, then press 
the lobster into pots or a small pie- dish, and pour over 
two ounces of dissolved butter. When the butter is 
set, it is ready for use. (I. C. G.) 

210. 

Potted Shrimps. 

Take off the shells of three quarts of fresh-boiled 
shrimps, season with the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, 
two grains of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, 
and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, dissolved. 
Press the shrimps into pots or a small pie-dish ; pour 
over the top two ounces of dissolved butter; when 
firm, they are fit for use. (I. C. G.) 

211. 

Mussels, Plain Boiled. 

Clean the shells with a brush, remove the weed, and 
wash the mussels in several waters. Put them into a 
large saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of salt (no 
water), shake the pan till they are done, which is known 
by the shells opening; turn them into a tureen and 
send to table at once. (I. C. D. E.) 



110 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

212. 

Scolloped Mussels. 

Boil them as directed in the foregoing receipt. Pull 
out the weed from each mussel (it wiU be found under the 
black tongue) ; season (to one pound) with a saltspoonful 
of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated 
rind of half a lemon, and a grain of cayenne. Put 
four ounces of crumb of bread, one day old, into a clean 
cloth, and rub it to a fine dust, season with half a salt- 
spoonful of salt and the same of pepper. Put a layer of 
crumbs into a flat dish, place the mussels on them, pour 
over an ounce of dissolved butter, cover closely with 
crumbs, add three tablespoonfuls of the mussels' liquor, 
dropped equally over the surface, baste with three 
ounces of dissolved butter, and bake in a quick oven 
for ten or twelve minutes. Serve in the same dish. 

(I. 0. D. E.) • 

213. 
Stewed Mussels. 

Well clean and boil the mussels as directed, remove 
the weed from under the black tongue of each mussel ; 
take the third of a pint of the liquor, boU in it a bay 
leaf, two sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, and 
a chopped shalot ; knead three ounces of butter with 
two dessertspoonfuls of baked flour ; strain the liquor, 
stir in the butter, boil ten minutes ; put in the mussels, 
add a gill of good cream, simmer two minutes, 
stirring all the time, and serve. 

(I. C. D. E.) 



EECIPES. Ill 

214. 

Pickled Mussels. 

Boil the mussels, and remove the weed from under 
the tongue ; put them into a dish or jar, mix half a pint 
of vinegar with half a pint of mussel liquor, add a 
chopped shalot, a bay leaf, half an inch of bruised 
ginger, two cloves, four allspice, six peppercorns, and a 
grain of cayenne ; boil ten minutes, and strain over the 
mussels. Let them remain four hours or longer. 

(I. C. G. E.) 

215. 
Fish Cakes. 

Take half a pound of cold fish, free from skin and 
bone, break it into small pieces, and noix thoroughly 
Vfith. half a pound of cold mashed potatoes, half an 
ounce of melted butter, one saltspoonful of salt, half a 
saltspoonful of pepper. Shape into neat small cakes 
upon a floured board, with a knife dipped in flour. 
Brush over with a little milk, and toss in flour, shake 
off the loose flour and fry. 

Another way. — Prepare as above, using bread crumbs 
and half a teaspoonful of finely chopped paisley instead 
of potatoes. 

Another way. — Prepare as in first way, using cold 
boiled rice instead of potatoes. 

In the above three ways, instead of brushing with 
milk and using flour, egg and bread crumbs may be 
used. (I. c. G. E.) 



112 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

216. 

SCALLOPED Fish. 

Season four ounces of fine crumbs of bread -with half 
a saltspoonful of salt, half a grain of cayenne, and the 
tenth part of a nutmeg, grated. Remove the skin and 
bones from any cold fish (except mackerel or fresh 
herrings), and divide about three-quarters of a pound 
into neat pieces three-quarters of an inch square. 
Season with a saltspoonful of salt (unless it be salt 
fish), half a saltspoonful of white pepper, and half a 
grain of cayenne. Mix with it either two tablespoon- 
fuls of sauce or two ounces of dissolved butter. Put a 
layer of crumbs into a dish or into scallop shells, lay in 
the fish, cover it thickly with the crumbs, pour over 
the top two ounces of dissolved butter, and bake in a 
quick oven, or before the fire, for a quarter of an hour. 
Six well-mashed mealy potatoes may be substituted for 
bread crumbs. In this case use two ounces of butter 
in mashing. (I. C. G.) 

217. 

Fish Salad. 

A nice dish may be made with all kinds of cold fish 
and some kinds of shell-fish, but the foUowiag way of 
dressing is for a small lobster salad, and will do for 
all fish salads. Have the bowl half filled with any 
kind of salad herb you Like, either endive or lettuce, &c. 
Then break a lobster in two, open the tail, extract the 
meat in one piece, break the claws, cut the meat of 



EECIPES. 113 

both in small slices, about a quarter of an raeh, arrange 
these tastefully on the salad ; take out all the soft part 
from the belly, mix it in a basin with a teaspoonful of 
salt, half of pepper, four of vinegar, four of oil ; stir it 
well together, and pour on the salad : then cover it with 
two hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, a few slices of cucum- 
ber, and to vary, a few capers and some fillets of anchovy ; 
stir lightly, and serve with salad sauce. (I. C. G.) 

218. 
Savoury Fish Pie. 

Take half a pound of cold boUed salt fish, break it 
into small pieces, mince two onions previously boiled ; 
grease a small pie-dish with either butter or dripping, 
place a layer of fish at the bottom, then a layer of cold 
mashed potatoes, with onions sprinkled over, then fish, 
potatoes, and onions again. Place small pieces of butter 
or dripping over the top, and brown in an oven or before 
the fire for twenty minutes. (C. G.) 

219, 
Sweetbreads, Plain. 

Trim and blanch the sweetbreads as directed in the 
receipt No. 222 ; then boil them gently for three- 
quarters of an hour. Serve them, and eat with a little 
butter, salt, and pepper; or, instead of boiling them, 
dip them into a beaten egg, then into fine dried crumbs, 
place them on a tin dish, pour over each three ounces 

X 



114 FOOD FOil THE INVALID. 

of dissolved butter, and bake for an hour in a moderate 
oven, basting constantly, and serve garnished with cut 
lemon. (I. C. D. G.) 

220. 
CALF'S Sweetbread, Stewed. 

One sweetbread, three-quarters of a piat of veal 
broth or stock ; soak the sweetbread in warm water for 
one hour, then boil for ten miautes, drain, and simmer 
gently in the broth for half an hour. Dish, and thicken 
the liquor in which it was stewed with flour and butter, 
seasoning with half a blade of mace, pepper and salt to 
taste, make quite hot, but do not boil, and pour over 
the sweetbread, and garnish with sippets of toast. 

(I. C. D.) 
221. 

CALF'S Sweetbread, Baked. 

One sweetbread ; soak in warm water for one hour, 
then put into boUing water and simmer for ten miautes, 
take up and drain, brush over with egg, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, dip in egg again, and then into more 
bread crumbs ; drop over a little oUed butter, and bake 
in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve on toast and pour rotmd, NOT over, a good brown 
gravy. (I. C. D.) 

222. 

Sweetbreads, with White Sauce. 

Trim off the pith and skin, and put the sweetbreads 
rato boiling water for five minutes, and then into cold 
for an hour ; lard them thickly with fat bacon, rub a 



SECIPE& 115 

small bright stewpan ■with garlic (four times across the 
bottom) ; put m a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
a chopped shallot, a slice of carrot, a bay leaf, a laurel 
leaf, the thin rind of half a lemon, a clove, two allspice, 
a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, half a saltspoonful of salt, 
the same of white pepper ; put in the sweetbreads and 
half a pint of new mUk, boil up quickly, and then 
simmer gently for an hour ; baste frequently with the 
sauce. Take out the sweetbreads, put them in a 
moderate oven for eight minutes ; skim and strain the 
sauce, add the yolks of two eggs, beaten with a table- 
spoonful of cream, stir over the fire for two minutes, 
place the sweetbreads on a dish, pour over the sauce, 
and serve. (I. C. D.) 

223. 
Sweetbreads, Roasted. 

Parboil two large ones ; when cold, lard them with 
bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, 
plain butter and mushroom ketchup. (I. C. D. G.) 

224 

Tripe for Convalescents. 

About one pound of fresh (dressed) tripe ; wash it in 
cold water, and cut it into neat square pieces ; take out 
nearly aU the fat. Put it into a bright stewpan with 
a small saltspoonftil of salt, the same of sifted sugar, 
and of fresh-made mustard, and about a pint of milk. 
BoU up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for three 
hours ; skim and stir frequently, to prevent the tripe 

I 2 



116 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

burning to the bottom. Mix a small dessertspoonful of 
Oswego flour with a wineglassful of cold milk, and stir 
in; simmer five minutes longer. Take out the tripe, 
place it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve 
immediately. (I. C. D. G.) 

225. 
Tripe Fricasseed with Onions. 

The tripe must be quite fresh. Have about two 
pounds ; cut it into pieces three inches long and two • 
broad ; wash it in cold water, and dry it with a cloth. 
Lay the tripe in a bright stewpan, with a pint and a 
half of new mUk; simmer as gently as possible for two 
hours ; stir frequently to prevent the tripe burning to 
the bottom. Peel six or eight moderate-sized onions, 
put them in with the tripe, and simmer for half an 
hour ; then take them out and chop them quite small, 
season them with a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, and the tenth part of a nut- 
meg, grated ; add two dessertspoonfuls of baked flour, 
stir them into the milk, and simmer a quarter of an 
hour longer. Add half a giU of thick cream, or two 
ounces of fresh butter, stirred quickly into the sauce ; 
serve at once, very hot. (I. C. D. G.) 

226. 

Stewed Pigeons. 

Knead together two ounces of butter, two dessert- 
spoonfuls of dried fine crumbs of bread, a grain of 
cayenne, a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, the same 



RECIPES. 117 

of pepper, a saltspoonful of chopped parsley, the tenth 
part of a nutmeg, grated, and one small shallot, finely 
chopped. Have two young pigeons, and put half of the 
stuffing into each, roast them for ten minutes. Peel 
twelve button onions, and fry them till slightly browned 
in an ounce of butter, dredge in a, tablespoonful of 
halted flour, stir till well mixed, then add half a pint 
of good stock, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 
a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a salt- 
spoonful of good anchovy sauce, and two tablespoonfuls 
of port wine ; put in the pigeons and simmer gently for 
haK an hour. Serve very hot. (I. C. D.) 

227. 

Stewed mushrooms and Pigeons. 

Cut the pigeons up as for a fricassee, put them on the 
fire in a stewpan with enough stock or water to cover 
them; "When nearly done add an ounce of butter, a 
little flour, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and some 
mushrooms (if the mushrooms are large cut them iato 
four pieces) ; stew twenty minutes, and then serve. 

(I. C. G.) 

228. 

Boiled Fowl with Parsley Sauce. • 

Dip the fowl in hot water for one minute, and rub 
it weU over with a cut lemon ; this process wiU make 
it white. Cover the breast with a thin slice of fat bacon, 
tie the fowl in a clean white cloth, put it into a sauce- 
pan (breast uppermost) with just sufficient cold water 
to cover it, boil up quickly, then simmer gently till 



118 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

done. Wasli a good bunch of parsley in salted water, 
dip it twice into boiling water, chop the leaves quite 
fine, knead a quarter of a pound of butter with a table- 
spoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint 
of the water the fowl is boiled in ; simmer five minutes, 
stir in a dessertspoonful of the chopped parsley. Place 
the fowl on a hot dish (without the bacon), draw out 
the skewers, pour half of the sauce over the breast, and 
serve the remainder in a tureen. (I. C. D. G.) 



229. 

Fricasseed Fowl. 

Cut a young fowl up into joints, and put it into cold 
water for an hour to blanch, wipe it dry, and dredge 
each piece with baked flour ; put it into a stewpan with 
sufficient milk to just cover it (about three-quarters of 
a pint), and the following ingredients tied in a piece of 
thin muslin : — A shallot, four sprigs of parsley, a sprig 
of thyme, two leaves of tarragon, an inch of thin lemon 
peel, haK of a laurel leaf, a quarter of an inch of mace, 
one clove, and a piece of nutmeg (about an eighth part 
of one) ; put it in the midst of the fowl ; add a teaspoonful 
of salt and a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, boil up quickly, 
then simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour ; 
take out the bag, place the fowl on a hot dish, pour over 
it the strained juice of a lemon. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs with half a gUl of thick cream, stir it into the 
sauce for three minutes over the fire, pour the sauce 
over the fowl and serve at once. (I. C. G.) 



RECIPES. 119 

230. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Put half a raw cMcken in a coarse cloth and pound 
with a mallet bones and meat together ; then put it in 
a covered vessel with enough water to cover it well ; let 
it simmer slowly until the liquor is reduced about one 
half and the meat falls to pieces when stirred. Strain 
and press through a cullender, and afterwards through 
a coarse cloth ; salt to taste, then put it again on the 
fire to simmer about five minutes longer ; after it is 
cold skim it. It is best to keep it on ice. (I. C. D.) 

231. 

Mayonnaise of Fowl. 

Wash two fine fresh-cut lettuces (or any salad in 
season), and four spring onions ; leave them in water 
for two hours. Boil four fresh eggs for' twelve minutes, 
and when cold pound the yolks to powder ; season with 
a teaspoonful of flour of mustard and half a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, add the beaten yolks of two fresh eggs, pound 
till in a paste, then drop in by degrees six tablespoon- 
fuls of the best salad oil, three teaspoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar; 
continue to stu* till the sauce is like a thick smooth 
cream ; stand it in a cool place, or on ice, for an hour. 
Cut about ten ounces of cold boUed fowl into neat 
pieces a quarter of an inch thick and an inch and a 
half square. Wipe each leaf of the salad, and break it 
into inch pieces, cut the onions quite small, put half of 



120 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

the salad into a bowl, on that lay half of the fowl, then 
half of the sauce, then the remainder of the fowl, over 
that the rest of the sauce ; pUe the salad on that, 
sprinkle the onions over the top, garnish with thin slices 
of beet-root and cucumber placed alternately, and send 
to table. 

Note. — A few leaves of tarragon and a few of chervil 
miKed with the salad is a great improvement if the 
flavour is not objected to ; but many persons dislike it, 

(I.C.G.) 



232. 

Boiled Chicken with Mushroom Sauce. 

Split a chicken down the back and press it flat ; have 
two sheets of white paper, spread each thickly with 
butter the exact size of the chicken (about two ounces 
on each) ; strew over each half a saltspoonful of salt, 
a quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a salt- 
spoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; lay the chicken on 
one, and cover it with the other ; roll the edges securely 
to keep in the butter, and broil over a bright fire, at a 
distance, for half an hour. Clean twelve button mush- 
rooms, put them into a smaU saucepan with half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, a 
teaspoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of brandy, and a 
teacupful of any good stock ; boil quickly for ten 
minutes ; take off the paper, lay the chicken on a hot 
dish, breast uppermost, pour the sauce over and serve. 

(I. c. a) 



EECIPES. 121 

233. 

Calf's Head Stewed, with Oyster Sauce. 

Soak half of a small calf s head (without the skin) for 
one hour in cold water with a teaeupful of vinegar in 
it. Well wash it in two or three waters, put it into a 
stewpan with two onions, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, a 
sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram, two sage leaves, 
four sprigs of parsley, two cloves, four allspice, six 
black peppercorns, half a carrot, and a pint and a half 
of cold water. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer 
gently for an hour and a half, skimming constantly. 
Take out the head, strain the liquor, add to it three 
tablespoonfuls of baked flour and the strained liquor of 
three dozen of oysters ; boU up, put the head in again, 
and continue to simmer for three-quarters of an hour 
longer, add three dozen of oysters, simmer seven 
minutes, and serve. (I. C. D.) 

234 

Calf's Liver Larded. 

First carefully lard the liver by passing strips of 
larding pork, which is firm white fat pork cut two 
inches long and a quarter of an inch square, in rows 
along the surface of the liver, placing the strips of pork 
in the split end of a larding needle, and with it taking 
a stitch about a quarter of an inch deep and one inch 
long in the surface of the liver, leaving the ends of the 
pork projecting equally. The rows must be inserted 
regularly until the surface is covered. Lay the liver in 



122 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

a pan on some chopped carrots, onions, some salt pork, 
sliced, salt and pepper, a faggot of sweet herbs and two 
or three cloves ; some gravy or good stock is poured over 
it, and it is cooked in a moderate oven for about an 
hour, until thoroughly done. Take out the liver, put it 
on the dish ; have ready some good gravy or stock, and 
stir it among the vegetables, dredging in a little flour, 
and heat over the fire, then pour the whole over the 
liver. (I. C. G.) 

235. 

Minced Meat and Bread Crumb. 

Take two ounces of minced meat (Australian beef or 
mutton wiU do), add a little water, and heat. Season 
with pepper and salt, then add two tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, and bake for ten minutes, just to make 
it hot and no more. (I. C. E.) 



236. 

SOUPS. 

The fault one has to find with the soups usually served 
at every-day dinners is that they are too heavy and con- 
tain too many ingredients. The average English cook 
seems to think that there cannot be too many good 
things put into a soup, and so uses up all her resources 
on one, making the others mere repetitions more or less 
alike, as may happen. The water in which meat has 



RECIPES 123 

"been boiled should always be saved, for when all the fat 
has been removed, excellent soups can be made from it, 
such as CroMe au Pot from boiled beef, cream soup from 
mutton, and pea soup from ham that is not too much 
smoked. 

The excellence of soup depends upon the way it 
is done and the care bestowed upon it. The cook often 
spoils it for want of straining — of which she is not over 
fond ; witness the lumpy potatoes and stringy spinach 
we frequently have to endure. 

An economical as well as substantial broth can be 
made without any stock; this we owe to our Scotch 
friends. Put some barley to soak over night, wash it 
weU in fresh water, cut into pieces two Swedish turnips 
(now food for the cattle), one carrot, four onions; and three 
or four stalks of celery; if you have no celery use 
celery seed. Put these into two quarts of boiling 
water, season with salt and pepper and as much cayenne 
as you can take up on the point of the blade of a pen- 
knife. Boil slowly for two hours, and then stir in a 
little less than a quarter of a pound of oatmeal mixed 
to a smooth batter with some cold water ; see if it is 
sufficiently seasoned, and add a very little grated nut- 
meg, and boil half an hour ; serve with ftied crusts. 
This is a very heavy soup, and should only be served 
when a light dinner is to follow. (I. C. G. E.) 

237. 

Spinach Soup. 

Put two pounds of spinach into a large pot with boil- 
ing water and two tablespoonfuls of salt ; keep covered 



124 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

until it boils, then remove the cover. With a wooden 
spoon press the spinach under the water as fast as it 
rises to the top ; boil it until tender. Drain it well and 
let cold water run over it while in the cullender ; chop 
it fine and pass it through a sieve. Heat two quarts of 
milk, add the spinach to it, season well, adding a very 
little nutmeg, let it boil up once and serve with crusts. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

238. 

Bean Soup, Puree d'Haricot. 

Soak some beans over night in plenty of warm water. 
When wanted, put them into a pot with cold water, a 
carrot, onion or leek, a faggot of sweet herbs, and salt ; 
cook until they are perfectly tender. Take out the 
carrot and herbs, drain the beans, but not too dry, pound 
them in a mortar, and pass through a hair sieve ; add a 
good-sized piece of butter, mix all well together, and add 
stock (of mutton or veal), or if you have no stock, milk 
or the water they were boiled in, sufficient to make of 
proper thickness, which must be according to taste. 
The excellence of this soup depends upon the way in 
which it is done, and the care bestowed upon it. The 
cook often spoils it for want of straiuing. (I. C. E.) 

239. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Wash, trim, and cut into shreds an iach long a small 
cabbage, two large carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, 
two leeks, three onions, a large endive or a lettuce. Put 



RECIPES. 125 

them into an iron pot with half a pound of good butter, 
a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful of curry powder, and let them fry till of a 
good brown colour; stir constantly to prevent burning. 
Add two quarts of water, and toil moderately fast for 
two hours, skimming frequently. Put into the tureen a 
wineglassful of Marsala, and a teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. Pour in the soup and serve at once. 

(I C. G.) 

240. 

Onion Soup, White. 

Peel and slice six large onions and four large potatoes ; 
put them into a stewpan with two quarts of water, a 
bay leaf, a laurel leaf, a tablespoonful of loaf sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the 
crumb of a French roU. Boil fast for two hours ; then 
rub the soup through a fine sieve. Put it again into 
the stewpan; boil up. Beat the yolks of three fresh 
eggs with two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, 
and stir in for two minutes. Add half a pint of cream 
and serve at once. (I. C. G. E. ) 

241. 

Cheap Pea Soup. 

Put into a stewpan two ounces of dripping, one 
quarter of a pound of streaky bacon, cut into dice, two 
good-sized onions sliced ; fry them gently until brownish, 
then add one large or two small turnips, the same of 
carrots, one leek and one head of celery, all cut thin and 



126 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

slanting (if all these cannot be obtained, use any of 
them, but about the same amount), fry for ten minutes 
more, and then add seven quarts of water ; boil up, and 
add one pound and a half of split peas, simmer for two 
or three hours, until reduced to a pulp, which depends 
on the quality of the pea, then add two tablespoonfuls 
of salt, one of sugar, one of dried mint; mix half a 
pound of flour smooth in a pint of water, stir it well ; 
pour in the soup, boil thirty minutes and serve. 

(I. C. G.) 

242. 

Potato Soup. 

Cut two pounds of the scrag or any other lean part of 
mutton in ten or twelve pieces, put in a pan with two 
ounces of fat, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half of pepper 
two middle-sized onions and a gill of water. Set it on 
the fire, stir round until it is reduced, then moisten with 
iive pints of water, boil, and skim, add two pounds of 
potatoes, peeled, and cut in sHces (put them in when the 
broth is boiling), simmer two hours and serve. A few 
sprigs of parsley, or the flowers of four marigolds, are a 
great improvement. (I. 0. G.) 

243. 

Red Carrot Soup. 

Scrape gently and cut in very thin slices two pounds 
of carrots ; put them ia the saucepan with two onions 
sliced, two ounces of ham cut small, two cloves, a sprig 
of thyme, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonfiil of 



EBCIPBS. 127 

sugar, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and half a 
pint of water, simmer gently forty minutes, then add 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, and two quarts of stock, 
milk, or water. (I. C. G.) 

244. 
Sago Soup. 

Boil an ounce of sago in a pint of weak heef tea or 
broth, until it be weU dissolved. 

245. 

LENTIL Soup. 

Take half a pound of uncrushed lentils, one carrot 
chopped, three onions, one leek, two pounds of parsnips, 
an ounce of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of brown sugar, and three large crusts of bread. 
Wash and pick the lentils, soak them all night, boil 
them with some soda in a large saucepan for three 
hours, press them through a cullender, heat aU again, 
and serve it. 

246. 

Milk Soup. 

"Wash, pare, slice, and parboil one pound of potatoes, 
pour away the water, skin and scald two onions ; chop 
them. Place the potatoes, onions, one teaspoonful of 
salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper in a stewpan, 
with one quart of cold water ; bring to a boil and boil 
till quite soft (about half an hour). Crush the potatoes 
and onions with a spoon till sinooth, add one pint of 



128 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

new milk, and one ounce of crushed sago, stir con- 
stantly tiU it boils, then boil for ten minutes. This 
soup may be made richer by adding one ounce of butter 
or dripping to the quart of cold water ; also by putting 
a yolk of an egg well beaten into the tureen, and mixing 
the cooked soup slowly with it. The soup must be off 
the boil or the egg will curdle. (I. C. G.) 

247. 

Cream Soup. 

Take one quart of good stock (mutton or veal), cut 
one onion into quarters, slice three potatoes very thin, 
and put them into the stock with a small piece of mace; 
boil gently for an hour, then strain out the onion and 
mace ; the potatoes should by this time have dissolved 
in the stock. Add one pint of milk, mixed with a very 
little corn flour to make it about as thick as cream. A 
little butter improves it. Chopped parsley should be 
added just before serving. This soup may be made with 
milk instead of stock if a little cream is used. 

(I. C. D. G.) 

248. 

Curry Soup. 

Skin and scald two onions, chop them with one large 
apple, put them into a stewpan with one ounce of butter 
or dripping ; brown the onions and apple in it. Draw 
the pan to the side of the fire ; break half a teaspoonful 
of curry powder into three pints of cold water, put it 



BECIPES. 129 

into the pan with half a teaspoonful of sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a pound of well 
washed rice. Boil for three-quarters of an hour, stirring 
occasionally. (I. C. G.) 



249. 

Milk Soup with Vermicelli. 

Throw into two pints of boiling milk a small quantity 
of salt, and then drop lightly into it two ounces of good 
fresh vermicelli ; keep the mUk stirred as this is added, 
to prevent its gathering into lumps, and continue to 
stir it very frequently, from fifteen to twenty minutes or 
until it is perfectly tender. The addition of a little 
pounded sugar and powdered cinnamon, or any other 
flavouring that is desirable. (I. C. D. G. E.) 

The different soups of the Soci^t4 G^n&ale des 
Potages Economique are excellent, and can be procured 
in canisters, or in packets, the latter forming a meal for 
one person. They are also very economical : — " It is only 
necessary to boU one of these preparations with water 
for a few minutes, and a soup of excellent quality is 
obtained at a cost of not more than three-halfpence 
per head. The soups are, we think, likely to be very 
generally useful, particularly in the summer when all 
unnecessary cooking should be avoided as much as 
possible." — Lancet. 

The " Eis auGras," " Consomm^," " Perles du Japon," 
and " Fromentine," are especially adapted for invalids. 

K 



130 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

250. 
SALADS. 

All vegetables shoiold be placed in a wire basket, well 
shaken in the water, and let stand until wanted. These 
two points, dryness and the absence of the knife, are two 
most important ones to the success of the salad. If the 
long lettuce is used, the tough centre of the leaves 
should be removed, as it detracts from the delicacy of the 
salad. In dressing aU salads, have ever in mind the old 
Spanish saying, " Be a miser with vinegar, a councillor 
with salt, and a spendthrift with oil." Let the oil be of 
the very best Lucca ; a poor oil is the ruin of any salad. 
With this simple dressing it can be quickly and neatly 
done at the table, as it is better for not standing. There 
are many substitutes offered for this oil dressing, but 
eschew them aU if you want a true salad. To those who 
like these mixtures we can only say — we wish you 
did not. 

The vegetables generally used are cos lettuce, cabbage 
lettuce, endive, beet-root (boiled), celery, cucumber, 
spring onions, shalots, watercresses, radishes, tarragon, 
chervil, chives, mustard and cress, &c. Every kind of 
salad must be quite fresh cut. 

25L 
Salad Dressing. 

Boil three fresh eggs for ten minutes; when cold 
rub the yolks to powder, season with half a saltspoonful 



RECIPES. 131 

of white pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of sifted loaf sugar 
Mix in the beaten yolk of' one egg, add by degrees four 
tablespoonfuls of salad (Lucca) oil, and, drop by drop, 
two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and one table- 
spoonful and a half of vinegar. Be careful to stir the 
same way all the time ; the dressing should look like 
rich cream. Pour it on to the salad, stir lightly with a 
fork and spoon, and serve immediately. 

.252. 

Salad Dressing, with Cream and Lemon 
Juice. 

Follow the foregoing receipt, using cream and strained 
fresh lemon juice instead of oil and vinegar. 

253. 

Water-Cress Salad. 

Wash the cress and drain well ; add a chopped green 
onion, two radishes, one spoonful of horse-radish, and 
a few leaves of lettuce. Dress with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar — the oil to be lavishly used. (G.) 

254. 

Winter Salad. 

Equal proportions of celery, boiled beetroot, raw white 
cabbage, and cooked fowl or rabbit, all chopped fine 
together; dress with mayonnaise and serve with a 
garnish of lettuce leaves. This wUl be found a very 
delightful salad, but for those whose digestion is delicate, 
the cabbage had best be omitted. (G.) 

K 2 



132 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

255. 
Endive and Cress. 
The Batavian endive is not quite so bitter as the very 
early endive, and on this account is much preferred. 
This, with a few water-cresses and a piece of bread 
rubbed with garlic — which gives a good flavour of onion 
without its actual presence — dressed with oil, pepper, 
salt, and vinegar, is a very nice salad. (Gr.) 

256. 
Vegetable Salad. 

This receipt we have found very good when it is 
difficult to get fresh vegetables. Boil a small cabbage 
until tender, let it get cold, cut it into pieces, add a 
chopped beetroot, some sliced boiled potatoes, and some 
capers, and dress with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. 

(G.) 

257. 

POTATO Salad. 

Slice- some fresh boiled kidney potatoes before they 
become cold, chop fine one or two green onions or a 
little garlic, a little water-cress, and a few lettuce leaves ; 
dress with plenty of oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar, and 
one well-beaten egg. (G.) 

258. 

Lobster Salad. 

One hen lobster, lettuces, endive, small salad (what- 
ever is in season), a little chopped beetroot, two hard- 



EECIPES. 133 

boiled eggs, and a few slices of cucumber. For 
dressing, four tablespoonfuls of oil, two ditto of vinegar, 
one teaspoonfvd of made mustard, the yolks of two eggs, 
cayenne and salt to taste, and a quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of anchoYy sauce. These ingredients should be 
mixed perfectly smooth, and form a creamy-looking 
sauce. Wash the salad, and thoroughly dry it by 
shaking it in a cloth ; cut up the lettuces and endive, 
pour the dressing on them, and lightly throw in the 
small salad. Mix all well together with the pickings 
from the body of the lobster ; pick the meat from the 
shell, cut it into nice square pieces, put half in the salad ; 
the other half reserve for garnishing. Separate the 
yolks from the whites of two hard-boiled eggs, chop the 
whites very fine, and rub the yolks through a sieve, 
and afterwards the coral from the inside. Arrange the 
salad lightly in a glass dish, and garnish, first with a 
row of sUced cucumber, then with the pieces of lobster, 
the yolks and whites of the eggs, coral and beetroot 
placed alternately. 

A less elaborate dish may be made by following the 
general directions and using a tin of lobster (of the 
better brands) and any salad according to time of 
year. (G.) 

VEGETABLES. 

259. 

Spinach. 

Pick off the stem of each leaf and avoid using any 
that are old or discoloured ; wash the spinach in 
several waters, and put it into a quart of boiling water 



134 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

with a dessertspoonful of salt ; press it down, and let it 
boil rapidly (uncovered) for ten or twelve minutes; 
drain it through a sieve, and press out all the water, 
mince (juite fine and put it into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, haE the quantity 
of white pepper, and a teaspoonful of sifted sugar ; stir 
for six or eight minutes. Place the spinach on a vege- 
table dish, smooth it over with a knife, and cut it into 
triangles ; garnish with fried sippets. Cut a slice of bread 
into small three-cornered pieces, and fry to a pale brown 
colour in plenty of butter or oiL (I. C. G.) 



260. 
Spinach, with Poached Eggs. 

Pick, wash, and boil the spinach as directed in the 
preceding recipe ; press out all the water, and rub the 
spinach through a fine wire sieve ; add two ounces of 
fresh butter, a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, 
half a grain of cayenne, and stir over a quick fire for 
ten minutes, mix in half a gill of thick cream, and 
serve immediately. Break four fresh eggs into separate 
cups, have a small bright omelette pan fuU. of boUiug 
water, put in a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
vinegar ; pour in carefully one egg at a time, as one' 
sets put in another ; they will require three minutes ; 
take them out with a slice, wipe off the water, and 
place the eggs neatly on the spiuach, having smoothed it 
over with a knife. (I. C. G.) 



KECIPES. 135 

261. 

Cauliflower. 

Eemove all leaves, cut into pieces and boil with a 
little salt until tender, then break into pieces, place 
part of them in a dish, cover with butter, bread 
crumbs, and a little grated cheese (the ordinary cheese 
will do, though half Parmesan and half Gruy^re are 
best), then more cauliflower, and so on, until the dish 
is full, the top being of course bread crumbs, cheese, 
and butter ; the last should be here liberally applied, 
and when baked for twenty minutes, it should be of a 
golden brown. (C. G.) 

262. 

Green Peas. 

The peas must be young, fresh gathered, and fresh 
shelled. A pint and a half of peas will require three 
pints of water with a tablespoonful of sugar and a tea- 
spoonful of salt dissolved in it ; put the peas in, with 
a good sprig of fresh mint, while the water boUs 
rapidly ; keep the lid off the saucepan, and boil fast 
for fifteen or twenty minutes ; drain in a cullender, take 
out the mint, turn the peas on to a hot dish, put an 
ounce of fresh butter in the -centre, and send to table 
immediately. (I. C. D. G.) 

263. 

French or Scarlet Beans. 

Strip off the strings by breaking off each end ; cut 
the beans into shreds an inch and a half long and the 



136 POOD FOR THE INVALID. 

sixth of an inch thick, throw them into cold water with 
a teaspoonfiil of salt in it, and let them remain an 
hour ; drain, and put them into fast-boiling water with 
a tablespoonful of salt, and boil very fast (uncovered) 
for twenty minutes. If the beans are not perfectly 
fresh and young they wiQ require five or ten minutes 
longer. Drain and serve. (I. C. G.) 

264. 

Carrots, a la Fran^aise. 

Scrape the carrots, cut the small ends into two, and 
the large ends into eight pieces ; boU in water with a 
dessertspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
for one hour, drain on a cloth, place them in a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter, and shake them tUl the 
butter is nearly absorbed by the carrots ; pour in half 
a pint of new milk, and simmer gently for an hour. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs, place the carrots on a 
vegetable dish, stir the eggs into the milk, simmer two 
miautes, pour the sauce over the carrots, and serve. 

(I. C. G.) 
265. 

Spring Carrots. 

Eub the carrots with a coarse cloth and cut off the 
ends ; put them into boiling water with a dessertspoon- 
ful of salt and a tablespoonful of loaf sugar, a laurel 
leaf, and a sprig of parsley ; boil about half an hour, 
drain on a cullender, and serve with a giU. of hot cream 
thrown over the carrots, which must be placed neatly 
on a vegetable dish, the small ends all to the centre. 

(I. C. G.) 



EECIPES. 137 

266, 

Winter Carrots. 

Scrape the carrots and cut them in halves, and the 
thick ends into four : put them into cold water for an 
hour ; hoil in plenty of water for two hours ; drain, 
and serve either as garnish to boiled heef or in a vege- 
table dish. g. C. G.) 

267. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Take six moderate-sized turnips, pare them neatly, 
and put them into cold water to blanch for half an hour ; 
then put them into plenty of boiling water, and boU 
about half an hour ; drain and press out all the water, 
and rub the turnips through a wire sieve ; put them 
into a stewpan with half a gill of thick cream and a 
saltspoonful of salt ; stir till boiling hot, then serve. 

(I. C. G.) 

268. 

Parsnips. 

Parsnips aro not particularly tempting to the seeker 
after a nice dish, but here are two ways in which they 
can be made palatable when other vegetables are difficult 
to get. 1. BoU until tender, drain off the water, cut 
them into slices, put a layer of a quarter of a pound of 
salt pork on the bottom of the pot, put the parsnips 
in and fry until brown. Serve the pork with them. 



138 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

2. Prepare the parsnips as above, fry to a delicate 
brown in butter, make a nice gravy from good stock, 
season well, pour it over the parsnips, and serve hot. 

(I. C. G.) 

269. 

Asparagus. 

Scrape off the outer skin, cut off the end of the 
stalk, leaving the asparagus about seven inches long ; 
tie it up into bundles with tape and let it remain 
in cold water for two hours. Put it into plenty of 
boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil, un- 
covered, for twenty minutes or half an hour, according 
to the size of the asparagus. Cut a round of bread 
half an inch thick, take off the crust, toast the bread, 
pour over it while on the fork a cupful of the water the 
asparagus is boiling in, spread it with butter on both 
sides, and serve the asparagus on it, taking off the tape ; 
serve melted butter in a tureeiL Knead three ounces 
of butter with a teaspoonful of baked flour and stir 
into half a pint of boiling water; boil a quarter of an 
hour. (I. C. D.) 

270. 

Asparagus. {No. 2.) 

Take some boiled asparagus, cut the ends and part of 
each stalk, as far as eatable, into pieces about the size 
of peas ; put them into a stewpan with butter, a sprinkling 
of flour, pepper, and a smaU cupful of the water they 
were boiled in, let them simmer about five nainutes, and 



RECIPES. 139 

add a gill of cream. ' The yolk of an egg beaten with 
the cream adds to its richness. 

Another way. — Prepare as above by cutting into 
small pieces; have ready some scrambled ,eggs, with 
which mix the asparagus, adding pepper and salt to 
taste, and serve hot and as soon as possible after cooking, 
as it does not improve by waiting. (I. C.) 

271. 

Sea-Kale with White Sauce. 

The kale must be perfectly fresh ; well wash it, take 
off the outer leaves, trim the root, tie it into bundles, 
and put it into cold water for an hour-; put it into a 
saucepan of boiling water with a dessertspoonful of 
salt, and boil rapidly (uncovered) for twenty minutes or 
half an hour, according to the size of the kale. Serve 
upon buttered toast (without crust). Knead a table- 
spoonful of baked flour with two ounces of butter, and 
stir into half a pint of boiling new milk; boil ten 
minutes, and serve in a tureen. (I. C. G.) 

272. 

Sea-Kale with Parmesan Cheese. 

Sprinkle each piece of kale with a teaspoonful of 
grated Parmesan cheese, a quarter of a saltspoonful of 
flour of mustard, and the same of pepper ; lay the kale 
on a flat dish, strew the top thickly with Parmesan, 
pour over an ounce of dissolved butter, and bake in a 
quick oven, or before the fire, for a quarter of an hour. 
Serve in the same dish. (I. 0.) 



140 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

273. 

BOILED LEEKS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Trim off the roots and the outer leaves, cut the green 
ends off, leaviag the leeks six inches long; wash them 
well, put them into boiling water with a tablespoonful 
of salt and a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and boil (un- 
covered) for three-quarters of an hour. Serve upon 
hot buttered toast, without crust, and with white sauce 
poured over them. (I. C. D. G.) 

274. 

Vegetable Marrow with White Sauce. 

Pare the marrows neatly, cut them into quarters 
lengthways, take out the seeds and wipe the marrows 
with a clean cloth, put them into boiliug water with a 
teaspoonful of salt and boil for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Toast a round of bread, without crust, pour over a cup- 
ful of the vegetable water, and butter the toast. Serve 
the marrows upon it with the following melted butter 
poured over. Knead three ounces of butter with a 
tablespoonful of flour, and stir into half a pint of 
boiling mUk ; boil a quarter of an hour, stirring all the 
time. (I. C. G.) 

275. 

Stewed celery. 

Take three fine heads of celery, fresh gathered, cut 
off all the coarse outer leaves and trim the stem, cutting 
it across one inch down ; wash well, and let it remain 



EECIPES. 141 

in cold water with a little salt in it for several hours ; 
put it into a stewpan and pour over it three-quarters of 
a pint of veal stock, simmer very gently an hour and a 
half. Take out the celery, and stir into the gravy the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, and half a gUl of good cream ; 
when set (two minutes wiU. suffice) pour the sauce over 
the celery and serve. (I. C. D. G.) 



276. 

Boiled Onions. 

Peel the onions and boil them in salt and water for 
ten minutes ; throw them into cold water for half an 
hour, then put them into a saucepan, and well cover 
them with cold water and let them boil gently for one 
hour. Drain, and serve with or without dissolved butter 
over them. (I. C. D. G.) 



277. 
Portugal Onions, Stewed 

Peel the onions and place them in a stewpan ; for each 
onion knead together haK an ounce of butter and a 
saltspoonful of sifted sugar ; put it on the onions, and 
let them slowly become slightly browned, then pour over 
each a teaspoonful of tomato sauce and a tablespoonful of 
gravy or stock ; simmer gently for three hours, basting 
the onions frequently with the gravy. Serve very hot. 



142 FOOD FOB THE INVALID. 

278. 

PORTUGAL Onions, Roasted. 

Peel the onions and place them in a Dutch oven before 
a good fire ; baste them frequently with dissolved butter 
(an ounce for each), and roast for an hour and a haM. 
Servo with or without their own sauce. (I. G.) 

279. 
Portugal Onions, Curried. 
Peel and wash the onions, put them into a saucepan 
with plenty of water and a little salt, boil (uncovered) 
tUl tender. Then press out the water and chop, put 
them into an enamelled saucepan with either a little 
butter or cream, and a little curry powder, simmer for 
five minutes and serve. (I. G.) 

280. 
Potatoes. 
Pare the potatoes neatly, place them on a plate, put 
a pint and a half of water into a deep saucepan ; turn 
a half-pint saucer or pot upside down, and place the 
plate with the potatoes on it on the saucer; let the 
water boil rapidly. Good-sized potatoes require half an 
hour to steam thus. (L C. D. G. E.) 

281. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Pare the potatoes and steam them half an hour ; turn 
them into a hot basin, and with a wooden spoon bruise 
them to flour ; to three pounds add three saltspoonfuls of 



EECIPES. 143 

salt, three oimces of fresh butter, and a gill of thick cream 
made hot. Stand the basin over a saucepan of boiling 
■water, and beat the potatoes for five minutes. Serve on 
a very hot dish, either in a rough cone-shape, or smoothed 
over with a knife, (I. C. D. G. E.) 

282. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Mashed potatoes are finest when made with freshly 
boiled potatoes still hot. Crush the potatoes first with 
a fork, and then with a large wooden spoon to be sure 
that no lumps remain ; add some butter or dripping, 
a little milk, salt and pepper, and mash weU in an iron 
pan over the fire till the dripping or butter has melted 
and well mixed with the potatoes. Arrange neatly on 
a dish, and brown before a hot fire. 

(I. C. D. G. E.) 

283. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Mushrooms serve us well and faithfully, and as they 
can be had through most of the year are a valuable 
addition to our list. The good old way of broiling 
them and serviog hot on buttered toast can hardly be 
improved ; but here are two more ways that are very 
good. Clean and trim off the roots, dip them in dis- 
solved butter, roll them in bread or biscuit crumbs, lay 
them on a dish that will not break with heat, and brown 
in a quick oven. Or cut them in quarters and wash in 
several waters, then fry them slowly in fresh butter 
with parsley, salt, and pepper. (T. C.) 



144 POOD POE THE INVALID. 

284 

MUSHROOM Soup. 

Tate one quart of thin stock (very clear), one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, and half a tin 
of Trench mushrooms cut into smaU pieces ; boil 
twenty minutes, add "one spoonful of browned flour and 
one ounce of butter well mixed together, boil up again 
and serve. Fresh mushrooms to be used when available. 

(C. G.) 

285. 

Stewed Mushrooms. 

Take off the skin and stems, wash the mushrooms 
quickly, place them in a stewpan (an earthen one is 
best) with two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of 
water, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a saltspoonful of pepper, 
a teaspoonful of salt ; simmer for twenty minutes, throw 
in half a gill of cream, and serve very hot. 

(I. C. G.) 

286. 

Stewed Beetroot. 

Bake the beetroot an hour, and when cold take off 
the skin ; cut it into slices a quarter of an inch thick, 
put it into a stewpan with half a pint of any stock, a 
saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, half a grain of 
cayenne, a shalot chopped, two sprigs of parsley, chopped- 
simmer three-quarters of an hour, add a wineglassful of 
vinegar, and serve. (T. C. D. G.) 



RECIPES 145 

287. 
STEWED LENTILS. 

Take half a pound of lentils to one quart of rain 
■water, boil very quickly ; wiU crack out of husks when 
done ; do not try to drain off the water. Take some 
celery, cut it up into dice, do the same with two 
potatoes and two onions ; boil them separately, and pass 
them through a colander; then mix them into the 
lentils, and add salt and pepper. (I. E.) 

288. 

Haricot Beans and Onion Sauce. 

Soak one gill of haricot beans over night, put them 
into plenty of cold water and boil them three hours, 
drain off the water, add two saltspoonfuls of salt, one 
saltspoonful of pepper, three ounces of butter, two large 
Spanish onions (previously boiled) chopped into small 
pieces, and one teacupful of good cream ; simmer ten 
minutes, stirring carefully, and serve. (I. E.) 

289. 

Haricot Beans. 

Put a quart of beans into half a gallon of soft water 
with one ounce of butter, simmer them slowly for 
about three hours, drain them and put them into a stew- 
pan, a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, two ounces 
of butter, and the juice of a lemon ; place them on the 
fire for a few minutes, stir weU and serve. (C. E.) 

L 



146 FOOD FOE THE INVALID. 

Another way. — Boil the haricot beans as directed in 
the preceding recipe; when they are quite tender 
strain off the water, then add a good-sized piece of 
butter, and let them simmer for a short time, taking 
care that they do not become brown ; then add a cup- 
ful of good gravy, season with pepper and salt. 

(I. C. E.) 

290. 

Hodge-podge. 

Cut two pounds of fresh scrag of mutton into small 
pieces, which put into a stewpan with three quarts of 
cold water and a tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, and half a tablespoonful of pepper ; set it on 
the fire ; when boUing, place it at the side to simmer 
for one hour, keep it skimmed ; well wash a large 
carrot, two turnips, two onions, and six small cabbage 
lettuces ; cut them up and place in the pot, and simmer 
tOl done; a pint of green peas, if in season, may be 
added ; a carrot, grated, is an improvement ; if in winter, 
use cabbage instead of lettuce. Serve the meat with it. 

(I. C. G.) 

291. 
HODGE-PODGE (ECONOMICAL). 

Put half a pint of dried green peas into a pint of 
water with a pinch of carbonate of soda in it ; let them 
soak over night. Gut up half a pound of fat mutton 
from the brisket, a large carrot, a large turnip, one 
Spanish onion, into pieces the size of dice. Put 



EECIPES. 147 

altogether into a stewpaa or a pie-dish in the oven, 
pepper and salt to taste, and cook for an hour and 
a half. (C. D.) 

292. 

Mealy puddings. 

Get from the hutcher some long skins for puddings, 
wash them well in warm water, then lay thern to soak 
all night in cold water and salt ; rinse them well. 
Toast one pound of oatmeal to a light golden colour 
before the fire or ia the oven, stirring it to let it toasti 
equally. Chop half a pound of beef suet very fine, 
also two large onions (parboiled) ; mix aU well together 
with half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Tie the end of the pudding- skin 
with thread, then put in enough of the mixture to make 
it the length of a sausage ; tie the skin again, but leave 
room for the pudding to swell. Leave about an inch 
of the skin, tie it again, then fill another, and so on. 
(The space is to allow each pudding to be cut off with- 
out letting out the mixture.) Have a pan with water 
in it nearly boiling, and a little salt ; prick the puddings 
all over with a darning-needle to prevent them bursting, 
and boil them for twenty minutes to half an hour. 
Serve hot. (I. C. D. G.) 

293. 

Mince Collops. 

Mince finely half a pound of uncooked beef, melt 
and warm half an ounce of butter or dripping in a pan, 
put the meat in it, and beat it about with a fork or 



148 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

wooden spoon till brown, but not hard. Break two 
teaspoonfuls of flonr into half a teacupful of cold 
water, add this> and also two small boiled onions, 
chopped ; stew all together for an hour, stirring frequently 
to prevent the meat going into lumps. A quarter of 
an hour before serving add half a saltspoonful of salt, 
a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, and one dessert- 
spoonful of ketchup. Serve hot, and garnish with small 
pieces of toast. (I. C. D.) 



294. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Break six eggs into the frying-pan with a little milk, 
a tablespoonful or more of butter, a little salt, pepper, 
and a very little nutmeg ; stir until thoroughly mixed 
and the eggs begin to set ; then take off the "fire, serve 
on buttered toast sprinkled with chopped ham, parsley, 
or asparagus, either being very nice; or, if preferred, 
alone in a deep dish with sippets of toast. 

(I. C. D.) 

295. 

Eggs in the Nest. 

Beat to a froth the whites of six eggs which have been 
seasoned as for an omelette, and pour into a buttered 
baking tin ; pour across it at equal distances six spoon- 
fuls of cream, into each of which drop a yolk whole ; 
bake, but not too briskly, and serve hot. 

(I. C. D.) 



KECIPES. U9 

296. 

HOMINY AND Cheese. 

Put half a pound of hominy in water over night ; 
next day boil it with a pint of milk for half an 
hour ; then add half a pound of finely-chopped cheese, 
mixing it thoroughly ; then put the whole into a stew- 
pan, or pie-dish in the oven for ten minutes. 

(I. C. D.) 



297. 

Cheese Straws. 

• Half a pound of dried flpur, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan or 
Gruyfere cheese, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a salt- 
spoonful of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of salt. Eub 
the butter into the flour, then mix the whole well 
together. Beat the whites of two eggs with a quarter 
of a pint of cold water, and stir in enough to form a 
firm paste ; knead the paste well, then roll it out the 
eighth of an inch thick, and cut it into straw-like 
strips, about five inches long. Bake in a quick oven 
till of a pale brown colour (about five minutes). Pile 
them on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Must 
be kept in a dry place. (I. C.) 



!50 FOOD FOR THE INVALID. 

298. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Pound eight ounces of cheese in a mortar, mix in 
two ounces or less of butter, spread it on two pieces of 
bread as a sandwich, and sprinkle over it a little salt 
and cayenne. It may also be put in a pot and covered 
with butter. CI. C. G.) 



INDEX. 



INDEX. 



Albumen, 7 

chemical formula of, 11 

Albuminoid food, excess of dangerous, 8 
American drink, 86 
Anchovy Sauce, 93 

Sauce with boiled haddock, 103 

toast with white sauce, 100 

Apple barley-water, 40 

rice-water, 40 

Apple RuBse, 66 

stewed, 60 

-~ toast and water, 39 

water, 39 

Arrowroot, 45 

milk, 45 

pudding, 66 

and black-currant drink, 33 

Artificial digestion, 54 

Asparagas, 138 

B. 

BAEI.ET-WATEB, 32 

Beans, French or scarlet, 136 

haricot, 145 

soup, pur6e d'Haricot, 124 

Beef, juice for the sick, 33 

juice with toast, 53 

potted, 53 

pounded, 54 

tea, 30 

nutritious, 30 

its nutritive value, 9, 32 

— • with oatmeal, 31 

Beetroot stewed, 144 

" Bile-poison " caused by too much 

albuminoid food, 10 
Biscuit, powdered, and milk, 41 



Black-currant and arrowroot drink, S8 
Brandy and egg, 34 
and milk, 34 

egg and milk, 34 

Bread jelly, 61 

Brill, 101 

Broth, calf's foot, 33 

chicken, 31 

eel, 72 

veal, 81 



Calf's foot broth, 33 

foot jelly, its nutritive value, 9 

head, stewed, with oyster sauce, 

121 

liver larded, 121 

sweetbread baked, 114 

stewed, 114 



Caper sauce for fish, 105 
Carrot soup, 126 
Carrots h la Frangaise, 136 
Carrots, spring, 136 

winter, 137 

Cauliflower, 135 

Caudle, 35 

Celei-y, stewed, 140 

Cereals, 26 

Cheese and hominy, 149 

sandwiches, 150 

straws, 149 

Cherries, stewed, 60 

Chicken, boiled, with mushroom sauce, 
120 

broth, 31 

jelly, 119 

tea, S3 

Chocolate cream, 56 

Cholic acid, chemical formula of. 11 



154 



INDEX. 



Coarse porridge, 44 

Cocoa niba, 46 

Cocoa-nut cream, 56 

Gocoatina, 46 

Cod, boiled, and oyster sanee, 95 

fried, and oysters, 95 

hard roe, 97 

liver and rice, 97 

liver and tapioca, 97 

liver oil easily digested, 19 

roe and cod-liver, 98 

sound, melt, and friU, 99 

— — with potato wall, 96 
Corn bread, baked, 47 

■ steamed, 48 

Commeal, 25 

~- breakfast cake, 48 

bread boiled, 47 

pudding, 49 

Corn-starch pudding, 50 
Cream, 51 

cocoa-nut, 56 

chocolate, 56 

gooseberry, 58 

mixed fresh fruit, 58 

of Tartar, 39 

_ raspberry, 57 

soup, 128 

spinach, 67 

whipped, 56 

Cumberland pudding, 68 
Currant and raspberry water, 40 
Curry soup, 128 

Custard, 65 

farm, 59 

rich boiled, 64 

without eggs, with fruit, 64 



Digestion, artificial, -54 
Drinks for fever patients, 21 
Dyspepsia, 16 

E. 

Eel, boiled, for convalescents, 76 

boiled, with parsley sauce, 74 

broth, 72 

fried, 75 

soup, 72 

stewed, 72 

with Tartar Sance, 74 

Egg and brandy, 34 

and sherry, 35 

——brandy and miUc, 34 

sauce, 108 

Eggs in the nest, 148 
scrambled, 148 

sweet, 65 

Egyptian porridge, 44 



Endive and crees salad, 132 
Enemata, preparation of nutritive, 55 
English sauce, 85 



F. 

Farina gruel, 36 

Farm custard, 59 

Fat, 6 

Fennel sauce, 103 

Fever patients, drinks for, 21 

Figs, stewed, 62 

Fish cakes. 111 

pie, savoury, 113 

salad. 111 

. salt. 107 

Flour, wheaten, 14 
Food generally, 26 

required to maintain the body- 
temperature, 3 

required to build up and repair 

tissues of the body, 3 

Fowl boiled with parsley sauce, 117 

fricasseed, 118 

Mayonnaise of, 119 



G. 

Genoa Sauce, 94 

Glycocholio acid, chemical formula of, 

11 
Glycogen, 6 
Goose -pudding, 71 
Gooseberry fool, 58 
cream, 58 



-water, 40 



Gout, 7 

** Gout-poison," caused by too much 

albuminoid food, 10 
Grits, or breakfast hominy, 49 
Gruel, 35 

farina, 36 

Indian meal water, 38 

:_ Indian meal milk, 38 

oatmeal, 36 



Haddock, baked, 83 

boiled with anchovy sauce, 

103 
Haricot beans, 145 

: and onion sauce, 145 

Hasty padding, 43 
Herrings, baked, 80 

boiled, 80 

fresh, 81 

mustard sauce for fresh, 80 

-roUed, 81 



Hodge-podge, 146 



INDEX. 



155 



Hollandaise sauce, 107 
Homiuy and cheese, 149 

boiled, 49 

cheese pudding, 47 

porridge, 46 

- pudding, 47 



Hydrocarbons, ^ 6 

Hydrochloric acid 

gastric juice, 5 



required for the 



Indian com flour, 46 

meal water gruel, 88 

milk gruel, 38 

Invalid in bed, 21 

Iron required for the blood, 5 



John Dory with caper sauce, 105 



Milk and rice, 45 

and selzer-water, 29 

and vermicelli soup, 129 

egg and brandy, 34 

lemonade, 41 

porridge, 42 

pudding, 42 

■ soup, 127 

toast, cold, 41 

with vegetable soup, 129 

Mince coUops, 147 

Minced meat and bread crumb, 122 

Mixed meat-tea, 82 

Mock Pat6 de Pole Gras, 52 

whitebait, 82 

Mulberry water, 41 
Mushrooms, 143 

soTip, 144 

stewed, 144 

stewed with pigeons, 117 

Mussels, pickled. Ill , 

plained boiled, 109 

scolloped, 110 

stewed, 110 

Mutton broth, 31 



Leeks, 140 
Lemon jelly, 71 
Lemonade, 87 
Lentils, stewed, 145 
Lentil soup, 127 
Lime and milk, 80 

water and milk, 29 

Ling, fresh, 99 
Lobster patties, 107 

potted, 109 

salad, 132 

sauce, 100 

soup, 78 



Mackerel, boiled, 102 
broiled, 101 

soused, 102 

Magnesia and milk, SO 
Maize flour, 15 

Mastication essential for good digestion, 

13 
Matrimony pudding, 67 
Mayonnaise of fowl, 119 

sance, 106 

Mealy puddings, 147 
Meat, minced, 27 

minced, and bread crumb, 122 

Milk, 29 

and brandy, 84 

and lime, 30 

- and lime-water, 29 

and magnesia, 30 

and powdered biscuit, 41 



Naples Sauce, 94 
Nitrogen in tissues of the body, 4 
Normandy pippins, 63 
Nursery food, 24 



O. 

Oatmeal gruel, 36 

porridge, 43 

padding, 70 

soup, 36 

with beef-tea, 31 

Onions, boiled, 141 

■ Portugal, curried, 142 

roasted, 142 

- stewed, 141 



-(white) soup, 125 



Oyster loaves, 

patties, 90 

pie, 90 

sauce, 96 

sauce end boiled cod, 95 

soup, 76,77 

Oysters and fried cod, 95 

boiled, 89 

— fried, 91 

grilled, 91 

on toast, 91 

stewed, 89 

(to feed), 68 

— to scallop, 89 



156 



INDEX. 



p. 

Pancreas, the, 18 

Parsnips, 137 

" Pastry " made from wheaten flour not 

easily digested, 16 
Pat^ de foie gras, easily digested, 20 

mock, 52 

Pea-soup, 125 
Pears, preserved, 61 
Peas, green, 135 
Peptouised milk, 54 

milk gruel, 55 

Phosphorus required for the nervous 

system, 5 
Pigeons and stewed mushrooms, 117 

stewed, 116 

Plaice, boiled, 84 
Porridge, coarse, 44 

— • Egyptian, 44 

hominy, 46 

milk, 42 

oatmeal, 42 

whole meal, 42 

Potato salad, 132 

soup, 126 

wall and cod, 96 

Potatoes, S, 142 

— mashed, 142, 143 

Potted beef, 58 
lobster, 109 

shrimps, 109 

■ tongue, 53 

trout, 108 

'Pounded beef, 54 

Prawn soup, 77 

Preparation of nutritive enemata. 55 

Preserved pears, 61 

. quinces, 61 

Prunes, stewed, 63 



Quinces, preserved, 61 



Baspbebby and currant water, 40 

cream, 57 

Red mullet, baked, 79 
sauce for, 79 

in paper, 78 

Rhubarb, stewed, 60 

water, 40 

Bice and cod-liver, 97 

( ground) pudding, 67 

milk, 45 

pudding, 70 

water, 32 



* S. 

Sago, 44 

soup, 127 

Salads, 130 

dressing, 130, 131 

endive and cress, 132 

lobster, 132 

potato, 132 

strawberry, 59 

vegetable, 132 

Tfater-creas, 131 

winter, 131 

Salmon padding, 92 

in potato paste, 92 

Salt fish, 107 

Salts, various, requisite for health, 5 
Sandwiches, 27, 52 

anchovy, 93 

Sauce, caper, 105 

egg, 108 

English, 85 

for red mullet, 79 

genoa, 94 

Hollandaise, 107 

lobster, 100 

Mayonnaise, 106 

Naples, 94 

oyster, 96 

shrimp, 93 

Savoury fish pie, 113 
Scalloped fish, 112 
Sea-kale, 139 

Seltzer water and milk, 29 

Semolina pudding, 69 

Sherry and egg, 35 

Shrimp sauce, 93 

Shrimps, potted, 109 

Sick-room, general dii-ections to be ob- 
served in the, 28 

Skate, boiled, 104 

white sauce for, 104 

dissolved butter for, 104 

Smelts, fried, 106 

Snow pudding, 50 

Soda required for formation of bile-salt 
in the liver, 5 

Sole, au vin blanc, 88 

boiled, 85 

buttered, 86 

filleted au gi'atin, 87 

with mussel sauce, 87 

: with white sauce, 86 

Soup, 122 

bean, pur6e d'haricot, 124 

carrot, red, 126 

cream, 128 

curry, 128 

eel, 72 

lentil, 127 

lobster, 78 

milk, 127 

millc with vermicelli, 129 



INDEX. 



157 



Soup, mushroom, 144 

onion, white, 125 

oyster, 76, 77 

-— pea, 125 

potato, 126 

■ prawn, 77 

sago, 127 

spinach, 123 

vegetable, 124 

verlnicelli and milk, 129 

Spicea, use of, 6 

Spinach, 183 

: cream, 67 

Boup, 128 

■ — with poached eggs, 134 

Sprats, balced, 82 

■ hroiled, 82 

Starch, 6 

its value, 10 

Stock for brown or white fish soups, 76 
Strawberry salad, 59 
Strengthening drink, 42 
Suet pudding, 68 

with treacle, 69 

Sweet eggs, 65 

Sweetbreads, calf s, baked, 114 
-stewed, 114 



- plain, 113 

- roasted, 115 

- with white sauce, 114 



Tamarind water, 33 
Tapioca and cod-liver, 97 

jelly, 42 

• • milk. 44 

pudding, 70 

Tartar sauce with eels, 74 
Taurocholic acid, chemical formula of. 

11 
Tissues of the body, 4 
Toast-water, 87 
Tongue, potted. 53 
Tripe for convalescents, 115 

fricasseed, with onions, 116 

Trout, boUed, 103 

potted, 108 

Tarbot, boiled, 99 

en coquettes, lOl 

Turnips, 137 



U. 
Uric acid, chemical formula of, 12 



Vegetable salad, 132 

soup, 124 

Vegetables, 133 

asparagus, 138 

^ beans, French or scarlet. 



carrots k la FranQaise, 136 

carrots, spring, 136 

carrots, winter, 137 

cauliflower, 185 

celery, stewed, 140 

in the cure of scurvy, 5 

leeks boiled, with white 


onions, boiled, 141 

roasted, 142 

Portugal, 8tewed,141 

curried,142 



parsnips, 137 

peas, green, 135 

potatoes, 142 

sea-kale with 



cheese, 189 



139 



— with white sauce, 

spinach, 183 
turnips, mashed, 137 
vegetable marrow, 140 

with white 



sauce, 140 
Veal broth, 31 
Vermicelli and milk soup, 129 



W. 

"Water-cress salad, 131 
Wheaten flour, 14 
White wine whey* 83 
"Whipped cream, 56 
"Whitebait, 105 

mock, 82 

"Whiting, stewed, 83 

boiled, 84 

fried, 84 

"Whole meal porridge, 43 
Winter salad, 131 



bonbon : 
R. Clay, Sons, and Tavloh, 

BREAD STREET HILL, E.G. 



WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

THE PRACTITIONER'S HANDBOOK OF TREAT- 
MENT ; or. The Principles of Rational Therapeutics. 8vo. Second Edition, 
enlarged. 16$*. 
*' We have every reason to thank the author for a practical and suggestive work." 

— Lancet. 

THE ANTAGONISM OF THERAPEUTIC AGENTS, 

AND WHAT IT TEACHES. The Essay to which was awarded the Fother. 
gilUan Gold Medal of the Medical Society of London for 1878. Crown 8vo. &s. 

ON THE USE OF WINES IN HEALTH AND 

DISEASE. By F. E. ANSTIE, M.D., F.R.S., late Physician to Westminster 
Hospital, and Editor of The Practitioner. Crown 8vo. 2j. 

WATER SUPPLY. By J. H. Balfour Browne, 

Registrar to the Railway Commissioners, &c. Crown 8vo. aj. 6i?. 

PHARMACOLOGY AND THERAPEUTICS : or 

Medicine Past and Present. By T. LAUDER BRUNTON, M.D., F.R.S., 

Assistant Physician and Lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Bartholomew's 

Hospital. Crown 8vo. 6j. 

"This volume will be read with equal interest both by members of the medical 

profession and the lay public, as it contains a large amount of information which is 

conveyed in an easy and pleasant style." — Westminster Review. 

HABITUAL DRUNKENNESS AND INSANE 

DRUNKARDS. By J. C. BUCKNILL, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P. Crown 
8vo. 2 J. 6rf. 
"Whatever side we may take upon the question, there can be no doubt that Dr. 
Buckniil's volume is a valuable contribution to the discussion." — Spectator. 

THE CARE OF THE INSANE AND THEIR LEGAL 

CONTROL. By J. C. BUCKNXLL, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P., late Lord 
Chancellor's Visitor of Lunatics. Crown 8vo. 3.;. 6(f. 

EYESIGHT, GOOD AND BAD; a Treatise on the 

Exercise and Preservation of Vision. By R. BRUDENELL CARTER. 

F.R.C.S., Ophthalmic Surgeon to St. George's Hospital, &c. With Illustrations, 

Crown Svo. 6j. 
" Mr. Carter has undertaken with singular success to render intelligible to the 
general public the main facts and principles which concern the organization and 
employment of the eyes as ascertained by modern science." — The Times. 

THE BATHS AND WELLS OF EUROPE: their 

Action and Uses. With Notices of Climatic Resorts and Diet Cures. With a 
Map. By JOHN MACPHERSON, M.D. New Edition, revised and 
enlarged. Extra fcap Svo. Ss. 6ei. 

OUR BATHS AND WELLS: The Mineral Waters of 

the British Islands. With a List of Sea-Bathing Places. By JOHN 
MACPHERSON, M.D. Extra fcap. Svo. 3s. 6d. 

BODY AND MIND : An Inquiry into their Connection 

and Mutual Influence, specially in reference to Mental Disorders ; being the 
Gulstonian Lectures for 1870, delivered before the Royal College of Physicians. 
New Edition, with Psychological Essays added. By HENRY MAUDSLEY, 
M.D., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in University College, London. 
Crown Svo. ts. 6d. 



2 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MIND. Being the First Part 

of a Third Edition, revised, enlarged, and in great part re-written, of " The 
Physiology and Pathology of Mind," By HENRY MAUDSLEY, M.D., 
Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in University College, London. Crown 
8vo. los. 6d. 

THE PATHOLOGY OF MIND. Being the Third 

Edition of the Second Part of "The Physiology and Pathology of Mind/' recast, 
enlarged, and re-written. By HENRY MAUDSLEY, M.D., Professor of 
Medical Jurisprudence in University College, London. Svo. i8j. 

W^ORKS BY B. W. RICHARDSON M.D., F.R.S. 

DISEASES OF MODERN LIFE. Fifth and Cheaper 

Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. 

ON ALCOHOL. ' New Edition. Crown Svo. is. 
HYGEIA, A CITY OF HEALTH. Crown Svo. is. 
THE FUTURE OF SANITARY SCIENCE. Crown 

Svo. IS. 

TOTAL ABSTINENCE. A Course of Addresses. Crown 

8vo. 3s. 6d. 

PREVENTIVE MEDICINE. Svo. [/« the^ress. 

INSANITY IN ANCIENT AND MODERN LIFE, 

with Chapters on its Prevention. By D. HACK TUKE, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Crown Svo. 6s, 
'* This work exhibits deep research in various directions, and teems with allusions 
and quotations which prove the author to be not only an accomplished psycliological 
physician, but a scholar of no mean order." — Medical Tunes. 

HOSPITAL ORGANISATION. With special reference 

to the organisation of Hospitals for Children. By CHARLliS WEST, M.D. 
Founder of, and for twenty-three years Physician 10 the Hospital for Sick 
Children. Crown Svo. zs. 6d. 



HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES, on several points, particu- 

larly on the Preparation of Economical and Tasteful Dishes. By Mrs. 

FREDERICK. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d. 

'* This unpretending and useful little volume distinctly supplies a desideratum. . . . 

The author steadily Iceeps in view the simple aim of malung^ every day meals at 

home, particularly the dinner, attractive, without adding to the ordinary household 

expenses." — Saturday Revzeiv. 

** Mrs. Frederick is the first to base her recipes on a sensible programme."— 

Escatnijier. 

THE HANDBOOK OF HOUSEHOLD MANAGE- 
MENT AND COOKERY. With an Appendix of Receipts used by the 
Teachers of the National School of Cookery. Compiled by the request of the 
LondnnSchool Board. By W. B. TEGETMEIER, author of " A Manual of 
Domestic Economy," &c. iSmo. u. 

THE SCHOOL COOKERY BOOK. Compiled and 

Edited by C. E. GUTHRIE WRIGHT, Hon. Secretary of the Edinburgh 
School of Cookery. i8mo. ij, 

MACMILLAN & CO., LONDON. 



Bedfohd Street, Covent Garden, London, 
November, 1880. 

MACMILLAN & CO:S MEDICAL CATALOGUE. 

Works in Physiology, Anatomy, Zoology, Botany, Oeemistry 

Physics, Midwifery, Materia Medica, and other Professional 

Subjects. 

ALLBUTT (T. O— ON THE USE OF THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE 
in Diseases of the Kervoiis System aud of the Kidneys ; also in certain otSiur 
General Disordei-s. By Thomas Clifford Allbdtt, M.A., M.D., Cantab., 
Physician to the Leeds General Infirmary, Lecturer on Practical Medicine, 
&c., &c. 8vo. 155. 

ANDERSON. — Works by Dr. MoCall Asdekbon, Professor of 

Clinical Medicine in the University of Glasgow, and Physician to the Western 

Infirmary and to the Wards for Skin Diseases. 
ON THE TEEATMBNT OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN : with an Analysis of 

Eleven Thoosaud Consecutive Cases. Crown 8vo. 55. 
LECTURES ON CLINICAL MEDICINE. With Illustrations. 8vo. IOj. 6d. 
ON THE CURABILITY OP ATTACKS OP TUBBBCULAR PERITONITIS 

AND ACUTE PHTHISIS (Galloping Consumption). Crown 8vo. 2s. Hd. 

ANSTIE.— ON THE USE OF WINES IN HEALTH & DISEASE. 
By F. B. Akstie, M.D., F.R.S., late Physician to Westminster Hospital, and 
Editor of The Practitwner. Crown 8vo. 2s. 

BALFOUR.— Works by F. M. Balfoub, M.A., F.K.S., FeUow and 
Lecturer of Trinity College, Cambridge. 
ELASMOBRANCH PISHES; a Monograph on the Development of. With 

Plates. 8vo. 21s. 
A TREATISE ON COMPARATIVE EMBRYOLOGY. With Illastrations. 
Demy 8vo. Vol. I. 18«. 

BARWELL. — Works by EiCHARD Barweuj, F.R.C.S,, Surgeon and 
late Lecturer on Anatomy at the Charing Cross Hospital. 
ON CURVATURES OP THE SPINE : their Causes and Treatment. Third 

Edition, with additional Illustrations. Grown Svo. 5s. 
ON ANEURISM : especially of the Thorax and Boot of the Neck. With Illus- 
trations. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d, 

BASTIAN.— Works by H. Chaklton Bastian, M.D., F.E.S., 
Professor of Pathological Anatomy in University College, London, &c. : — 
THE BEGINNINGS OP LIFE : Being some Account of the Nature, Modes of 
Origin, and Transformations of Lower Organisms. In Two Volumes. With 
upwards of 100 Illustrations. Crown Svo. 28s. 
EVOLUTION AND THE ORIGIN OP LIFE. Crown Svo. 6s. 6d. 
ON PARALYSIS FBOM BRAIN DISEASE IN ITS COMMON FORMS. 

Illustrated. Crown Svo. 10s. ed. 
" It would be a good thing if all such lectures were as clear, as systematic, 

■ and as interesting It is of interest not only to students but to all 

who make nervous diseases a study."— Jburwa! of Mental Sci£7ice. 

BRODIE.— IDEAL GHEMISTKY. A Lecture, by Sir B. C. Bbodie, 
Bart., D.C.L., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford. 
Crown Svo. 2s, 

BROWNE.— WATEE'sUPPLY. By J. H. Balfotte Beowne, Regis- 
trar to Bailway Commissioners, iic. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. 

5,000.11.80. 



2 MA-CMILLAN AND CO.'S 

BRUN TON.— PHARMACOLOGY ANB THERAPEUTICS: or 
Medicine Past and Present. By T. TjAtjdeb Brttnton. M.D., F.R.S., Assistailt 
Physician and Lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 

BUCKNILL— Works by J. 0. Bucknill, M.D. Lond., F.R.S., 

F.R.C.P., late Lord Chancellor's Visitor of Xunatics. 
■ HABITUAL DRUNKENNESS AND INSANE DRUNKARDS. Crown 8vo. 
■2s. 6d. 

THE CARE OP THE INSANE AND THEIR LEGAL CONTROL. Crown 
Svo. 3s. 6d. ^ 

CALDERWOOD.— The Relations of Mind and Brain. 'Bj. H. 

Calderwood, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of 
Edinburgh. Svo. 12s. . ' ' 

CARTER.— Works by R. Brubenell Carter, F.R.C.S., Opbtbal- 
mic Surgeon to St. George's Hospital^ &c. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE EYE. "With Illustrations. 

Svo. 16s. 
" No one will read Mr. Cwter's book without having both. Ms special and general 
knowledge increased." — Lancet 

ON DEFECTS OF VISIO^T WHICH AI^E REMEDIABLE BY OPTICAL 

APPLIANCES. Lectures at the Royal College of 'Surgeons. With niunerous 
Illustrations. Svo. Gs. 

EYESIGHT, GOOD AND BAD : a Treatise on the Exercise and Preservation oi 
Vision. With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 6s. 

CHRISTIE.— CHOLERA EPIDEMICS IN" EAST AFRICA. An 

Account of the several Diffusions of the Disea.S6 in that country from 1821 
tin 1872, with an Outline of the Geography, Ethnology, and Trade Connec- 
tions of the Regions through whieh the Epidemics passed. By J. Christie, 
M.D., late Physician to H.H. the Sultan of Zanzibar. With Maps. Svo. 15s. 

COOKE (JOSIAH P., Jun.).— FIRST PRINCIPLES OF CHEMICAL 

PHILOSOPHY. By Josiah P. Cooke, Jun., ErviTie Professor of Chemistry 
and Mineralogy in Harvard College. . Third Edition, revised and. corrected. 
Crown Svo. 12s. 

CREiantON. — CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PHYSIOLOGY 

AND PATHOLOGY OP THE BREAST AND ITS LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 
By Charles Creightow, M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy in the University 
of Cambridge. With Illustratious. Svo. 9s. 

" It is Impossible not to see at once that the work is deserving of all praise, 
both from the originality and from ttte cai*e which has been bestowed upon it."— 
Practitioner. 

FLEISCHER.— A SYSTEM OF VOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS. By 

Dr. Emil Fleircher. Translated, with Notes and Additions, from the Second 
German Edition, hy M.. M. PiTTisoN Moib, F.R.8.B., Aspistant Lecturer on 
Chemistry, in the Owens College, Manchester. With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 
■ Is. Sd. 

FLOWER ("W. H.).^AN INTRODUCTION TO THE OSTEOLOGY 
OF THE MAMMALIA. Being the substance of the Course of Lectures 
delivered at the Ebyal College ot Surgeons of England in 1870. By W. H. 
Flower, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Hunterian Professor of Comparative Anatomy 
and Ehysjfllogy. 'With numerous Illustrations. 'Second Edition, revised and 
'enlarged. Crown Svo. 10s. 6c(. ' 



MEDICAL CATALOGUE. 3 

FLIJCKIGER and HANBURY— Pharmaoograpliia : a History 
of the Principal Drugs of Vegetable Origin met with in Great Britain and 
India. Bj; F. A. PLttoKioEB, M.D., and D. Hambhrt, F.R.S. Second 
Edition, revised. 8vo. 21a. 

FOSTER.— "Works by Michael Eostek, M.D., E.E.S. :— 

A TEXT BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY, for the use of Medical Students. and 
others. Third Edition revised, with Plates. 8vo. 21s. 

**Dr. Foster has combined in this work the conflicting desiderata in all text- 
books — comprehensiveness, brevity, and clearness. After a careful perusal of the 
whole work we can confidently recommend it, both to the student aad the practi- 
tioner as being one of the best text-books on physiology extant." — Lancet. 

A PBIMEB OF PHYSIOLOGY. lUustrated. 18mo. Is. 

FOSTER and LANGLEY.— AN ELEMENTAEY COURSE OF 

PRACTICAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Michael Fosteb, M.D., F.R.S., assisted 
by J. N. Jjangley, B.A. Fourth Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
- "Equipped with a text-book such as this . . w . the beginner cannot fail to 
accjuire a real, though of course elementary, knowledge of the leading iiaets and 
principles of physiology." — Aoadeitly^ 

FOSTER and BALFOUR.— ELEMENTS OF EMBRYOLOGY. 

By Michael Foster, M,D., F.R.S., and F. M. BAlfoitb, M,A., FeUow of 
Trinity College, Cambridge. With numerous Illustrations. Part I. Crown 
■8V0. 7S. M. 

" Both text and' illustrations are alike remalrkable for their clearness andfreedom 
from error, indicating the Immense amount of labour and care expended in the 
production of this most valuable addition to scientific literature." — Medical Press 
wnd CvreUflar. 

FOTHERGILL. — "Works by J. MiLNER FOTHERGILI, M.D., 
M'.B.C.P., Assistant Physician to the Victoria Park Chest Hospital, and to 
the West London Hospital : — 

THE PRACTITIONER'S HANDBOOK OP TREATMENT : or, THE PRIN- 
CIPLES OF RATIONAL THERAPEUTICS. 8vo. Second Edition, enlarged. 
16s. 

"We have every reason to thank the author for a practical and suggestive woi^k. 
— Lancet 

THE ANTAGONISM OF THERAPEUTIC iGENTS, AND WHAT IT 
TEACHES. The Essay to which was awaided th« Fothergilliau Gold Medal 
of the Medical Society of London for 1878. Crown 8vo. 6s, 

FOX— "^orks by "Wilson Fox, M.D. Lond., F.R.CP., F.R.S., 

Holme Professor of Clinical Medicine, University College, London, Physician 

Extraordinary to her Majesty the Queen, &c. :— 
DISEASES OP THE STOMACH : being a new and revised Edition of " The 

Diagnosis and Treatment of the Vabieties of Dyspepsia." Svo. 8s. 6d. 
ON THE ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF TUBERCLE IN THE LOWER 

ANIMALS. With- Coloured Plates. 4to. 6e. 6<i. 
ON THE TREATMENT OF HYPERPYREXIA, as illustrated in Acute 

Articular Rheumatism by means of the External Application of Cold. Svo. 

28, 6d. 

GALTON (D.).— AN ADDRESS ON THE GENERAL PRIN- 
CIPLES WHICH SHOULD BE OBSERVED IN THE CONSTRUCTION 
OF HOSPITALS. By Douglas Galton, C.B., F.B.S. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d. 

GAMGEE.— A TEXT-BOOE OF THE PHYSIOLOGICAL CHEM- 
ISTRY OF THE ANIMAL BODY, including an Account of the Chemical 
Changes occurring in Disease. By Arthur Gamgee, M.D., F.R.S., Pro- 
fessor in the Victoria University, Manchester ; Brackenburg Professor of 
Physiology in Owens College. . With lUustratious. Volume I, 8vo. 18s. 



4 MACMILLAN AND CO/S 

GEGENBAUR— ELEMENTS OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 
By CAitL Gegembatir, Professor of Anatomy and Director of the Anatomical 
Institute, Heidelberg. A translation by F. Jeffjret Bell, B.A., revised, with 
Preface hy E. Eat Lankester. M.A„ F.B.S., Professor of Zoology and 
Comparative Anatomy in University College, London. With nnmerous Illus- 
trations. Medium 8vo. 21s. 

GRAY — STRUGTUEAL BOTANY ; or, Organography on the basis 
of. Morphology. To which is added the Principles of Taxonomy and Phyto- 
graphy, and a Glossary of Botanical Terms. By Asa Gray, LL.D., &c. With 
Illustrations. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

GRIFFITHS.— LESSONS ON PRESCRIPTIONS AND THE 

ART OF PRESCRIBING. By W. Hansel Griffiths, Ph.I>., L.B.C.P.B. 
New Edition. 18mo. 3s. 6d. 
". We recommend it to all students and junior members of the profession who 
desire to understand the art of prescribing. — Medical Press. 

HANBURY.— SCIENCE PAPERS, chiefly Pharmacological and 
Botanical By Daniel Hanbury, F.R.S. Edited with Memoir by Joseph 
I^■CE, P.L.S.. F.C.S. Svo. 14s. 

HOOD (Wharton.).— ON BONE-SETTING (so-called), and its 

Relation to the Treatment of Joints Crippled by Injury, Rheumatisni!, 

Inflamrnfttion, &p., &c. By Whartoh' P. Hood, M.D., M.R.C.S. Crown 8vd. 

Illustrated. 4s. 6d. 

"Dr. Hood's book is fuU of instruction, and should be read by all surgeons." — 

Medical Times. 

HOOKER (Dr.).— THE STUDENT'S FLORA OF THE BRITISH 
ISLANDS. By Sir J. D. Hooker, K.C.S.I., C.B., M.D., D.C.L., President 
of the Royal Society. Second Edition, revised and corrected. Globe Svo* 
105. 6d. 

HUMPHRY.— Works by G. M. Humphry, M.D., F.R.S., Professor 
of Anatomy in iJie University of Cambridge, and Honorary Fellow of Downing 
College : — 

THE HUMAN SKELETON (including the Joints). With 260 Illustrations 
drawn from Nature. Cheaper Issue. Medium Svo. 145. 

OBSERVATIONS IN MYOLOGY. Illustrated. 8vo, 6«. 

THE HUMAN FOOT AND HAND. Illustrated. Fcap. Svo. 4s. 6d. 

THE HUNTEBIAN ORATION, 1879. Svo. 2s. 6d. 

HUXLEY and MARTIN. — A COURSE OF PRACTICAL 

INSTRUCTION IN ELEMENTARY BIOLOGY. By T. H. Huxlev, LL.D. 
Sec. R.S., assisted by H. N. Martin, M.B., D.Sc, New Edition, revised. 
Crown Svo. 6s. 
*' To intending medical students this book will prove of great value." — Lancet. 

HUXLEY— Works by Professor T. H. Huxles", LL.D., F.E.S. 

LESSONS IN ELBMBNTAET PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous lUustiations. 

New Eflition. Fcap. Svo. 4js. 6d. ' 

PHYSIOGEAPHT : an Introduction to the Study of Nature. With Colouied 

Plates and Woodcuts. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 68. 

KEETLEY.-THE STUDENT'S GUIDE TO THE MEDICAL 

PROFESSION. By C. B. Kertlist, F.R.C S., Assistant Surgeon to the West 
London Hospital. With a Chapter for Women Students. By Mrs. Gabeett 
Anderson. Cro^vn Svo, 2s. Qd. 

KLfHNE.— ON THE PHOTOCHEMISTRY OF THE RETINA 
AND i)N VISUAL PURPLE. Translated from the Gciman of Dr. KBhnB, 
and Edited with Notes, by Michael Foster, MJD., F R.S. Svo. 5s. 6d. 

LANOAUER. — Blowpipe Analysis. By J. Landaueb, Authorised 
Eugiish Edition by James Tavlob, and W. E. Kay of the Owens Oolloge, 
JHaDchestur. With lUustrutionB. Extra tb'ap. Svo. is. Sd. 



MEDICAL CATALOGUE. 5 

LANKESTER.— COMPARATIVE LONGEVITY IN MAN AND 

THE LOWEB ANIMALS. By E. Eat Lankestek B.A. Crown Svo. 
4s. ed. 

LEISHMAN.— A SYSTEM OF MIDWIFERY, including the 
Diseases of Pregnancy and the Puerperal State. By William Leishmak, 
M.D., Begius Professor of Midwifery in the University of Glasgow : Physician 
to the University Lying-in Hospital : Fellow and late Vice-President of the 
Obstetrical Society of London, £ec., &c. Illustrated. Third Edition, revised, 
Svo. 21s. 

MACLAGAN. — THE GERM THEORY APPLIED TO THE 

EXPLANATION OF THE PHENOMENA OP DISEASE. By T. Maolaoah, 
M.D. 8vo. 10s. ed. 
"We think it well that such a hook as this should be written. It places before 
the reader in clear and unmistakable language what is meant by the germ theory of 
disease." — La/ncet. 

MACNAMARA.— "Works by C. Macnamaea, F.C.TJ., Surgeon 
to Westminster Hospital : — 

A HISTOEY OF ASIATIC CHOLERA. Crown Svo. 10s. Kd. 

*' A very valuable contribution to medical literature, and well worthy of the place 
which it is sure to assume as the standard work on the (subject." — Medical Examiner. 

DISEASES OP BONE.— Clinical Leotukes. Crown Svo. 6s. 

MACPHERSON.— "Works by John Macpherson, M.D. :— 

THE BATHS AND WELLS OP EUROPE : their Action and Uses. With 
Notices of Climatic Resorts and Diet Cures. ' With a Map. New Edition, 
revised and enlarged. Extra fcap. Svo. 6s. 6d. 

CUE BATHS AND WELLS : The Mineral Waters of the British Islands. With 
a List of Sea-Bathing Places. Extra fcap. Svo. 3s. 6d. 

MANSFIELD (C B.).— A THEORY OF SALTS. A Treatiso on 

the Constitution of Bipolar (two-membered) Chemical Compounds. By the 
late Chahles Blachford Mansfield, Crown Svo. 14s. 

MAUDSLEY.— Works by Henry Mattdslet, M.D,, Profeasor of 

Medical Jurisprudence in Univei'sity College, London : — 

BODY AND MIND : An Inquiry into their Connection and Mutual Influence, 
specially in reference io Mental Disorders: being the Gulstonian Lectures 
for 1870, delivered before the Royal College of Physicians. New Edition, 
with Psychological Essays added. Crown Svo. 6s. 6d 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OP MIND. Being the First Part of a Third Edition, 
revised, enlarged, and in great part re-writton, of " The Physiology and Patho- 
logy of Mind." Cro-wn Svo. 10*. -Gd. 

THE PATHOLOGY OF MIND. Being the Third Edition of the Second Part of 
"The Physiology and Pathology of Mind," recast, enlarged, and re-written. 
Svo. 18s. 

MIALL.— STUDIES IN COMPAEATIVE ANATOMY. 

No. I.— The Skull of the Crocodile. By L. C. Miall, Professor of Biology 

in the Yorkshire College of Science. Svo. 2s. 6d. 
No. II.— The Anatomy of the Indian Elephant. By L. C. Miall and F. Gheen- 
wooD, Curator of the Leeds School of Medicine. Illustrated. Svo. fls. 

MIVART (St. George).— Works by St. George Mivart, F.R.S., 
&c.. Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at St. Mary's Hospital : — 

ON THE GENESIS OP SPECIES. Second Edition, to which Notes have been 
added in reference and reply to Darwin's " Descent of Man." With numerous 
Illustrations. Crown Svo. 9*. 

LESSONS IN ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. With upwards of 400 Illustrations. 
New Edition. Fcap. Svo. 6s. 6d. 

"It may be questioned whether any other work on anatomy contains in like 
compass so proportionatelj^great a mass of information." — Laruxt 



6 MACMILLAN AND CO.'S 

M*KENDRICK.— OUTLmES OF PHYSIOLOGY IN ITS RELA- 
TIONS TO MAN. By John Gray M'Kendbick, M.D.. P.R.S.B., Professor 
of the Institute of Medicine and Physiology in, the University of Glasgow. 
Illustrated. , Crown 8vo. 12s. 6d. 

MUIR— PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY POR MEDICAL STUDENTS. 
Specially arranged for the first M. B. Course. By M. M. Pattison Muir, 
F.R.S.E., Praelector in Chemistry, Caius College, Cambridge. Fcap. 8vo. Is. 6d, 

^' l?his little book wiU aid the student not only to pass his professional examina- 
tion in practical Chemistry more easily, but will give him such an insight into the 
fiubjetit as WiU. enable him readily to extend his knowledge of it should time and 
incHnation permit." — Practitioner. 

OLIVER —LESSONS IN ELEMENTARY BOTANY. By Daniel 

Oliver, F.R.S., P.L.S., Professor of Botany in University College, Londonj 
and Keeper of the Herbarium and Library of the Royal Gardens, Kew. ,With' 
nearly 200 Illustrations. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. ^«..6d. ^ 

PARKER and BETTANY.-^THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE 

SKULL. ByW. K. Parker, F.B.S., Hunterian Professor, Royal College of 
< ■ Suigeons, and G. T. Bettant, M.A., B.Sc, Lecturer on Botany in Guy's 
ILospital'Medical School. Crown 8vo. 10s. fid. 

PETTIGREW.—THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE CIRCULATION 

IN PLANTS, IN THE LOWER ANIMALS, AND IN MAN. By J. Bell 
Pettigbbt^, M.D., F.R.S., etc. Illustrated by 150 Woodcuts. 8vo. 12*. 

**A more original, iuteresting, exhaustive, or comprehensive treatise on the 
Circulation and the circulatory apparatus in plants, animals, and man, has never, 
we are certain, been offered for the acceptance of the anatomist, physiologist, or 
student of medicine."— KeferiTior^ Jov/rnaL 

PIFFARD.—AN ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON DISEASES OF 
THE SKIN, for the Use of Students and Practttioners. By H. G. Piffabd, 
M.D., Professor of Dermatology in the University of the City ol New York, 
&c. With Illustrations. 8vo. 16s. » 

RADCLIPFE.— Works by Chakles Bland Radclipfe, M.D., 
F.R.C.P., Physician to the Westminster Hospital, and to the National Hdspital 
' ■ "fbr tbe PatJidysed and Epileptic :— 

VITAL MOTION AS A MODE OF PHYSICAL MOTION. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d. 

PROTEUS : ob UNITY IN NATURE. Second Edition. 8vo. 7s. M. 

RANSOME.— ON^ STETHOMETRY. Chest Examination by a 
more Exact Method, vrith its Results. With an Appendix on the Chemical 
and Microscopical Examination of Respired Air. By Akthub Ransoms, M.D. 
With Illustrations. 8Vo. 10s. 6d. 

"We can recommend his book not only to those who are interested in the 
graphic method, but to all who are specially concerned in the treatment of diseases 
of tiie chest," — British Medical Journal. 

REYNOLDS (J. R.)-— A SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Edited by 
J. BnssELL Reynolds, M.D., T.E.S. London. In 5 Vols. Vols. I. to HI., 
25s. each ; Vol. IV. 21s. ; Vol. V. 25s. 

Vol. I. — Part I. General Diseases, or Affections of the Whole System. Part II. 

Local Diseases, .or Aifections of Fajticular Systems. § I. — Diseases of the 

Skin. 
Vol. II.— Part II. Local Diseases (continued). § I.— Diseases of the Nervous 

System. § II. — ^Diseases of the Digestive System, 
Vol.. III.— Part II, Local Diseases (continued). J 11. — Diseases of the Digestive 

System (continued). § III.— Diseases of the Respiratory System. 
Vol. IV. — Diseases of the Heart. Part II. Local Diseases (continued). § IV 

— Diseases of the Organs of Circulation. .. ■ , 



MEDICAL CATALOGUE. 7 

RE YM OLDS (J- E.)— co»<MM«(^. 

Vol. v.— Diseases of the Organs of Ciroulation.— Diseases of the Vessels.— 

Diseases of the Blood-Glandular System.— Diseases of the Urinary Organs. 

— Diseases of the Female Reproductive Organs.— Diseases of the Cutaneous 

System. 

Also, now publishing in MONTHLY PABTS, Price is. each, to be completed in 

2i Parts. (Part 1, April 1st, 1879.) 

RICHARDSON.— "Works by B. "W. Richakdson, M.D., F.R.S. :— 
DISEASES OF MODERN LIFE. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vp. fa. 
ON ALCOHOL. New Edition. Crown 8vo. Is. 
HTGBIA, A CITY OF HEALTH. Crown 8vo. Is. 
THE FUTURE OF SANITARY SCIENCE. Crown 8vo. Is. 
TOTAL ABSTINENCE. A Course of Addresses. Crown 8vo. 35. 6d. 
PREVENTIVE MEDICINE. 8to. [In the Press. 

ROSCOB.— "Works by Henkt Roscoe, F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry 

in Owens College, Manohester : — 
LESSONS fN ELEMENTARY CHEMISTRY, INORGANIC AND ORGANIC. 

With numerous Illustrations, and Chromolithographs of the Solar Spectrum 

and of the Alkalies and Alkaline Earths. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4«. 6d. 
CHEMICAL PROBLEMS, adapted to the above. By Professor T. E. Thorpe, 

M.D., F.R.S.E., with Prsface by Professor Roscoe. Fifth EditioB, wth Key. 

ISmo. 2«. 
PRIMER OF CHEMISTRY. lUustrated. ISmo. 1». 

ROSCOE and SCHORLEMMER.— A TREATISE ON CHEM- 

ISTRY. By Professors Roscoe and Schorlemmer. Vols. I. & II, — Inoroamio 
Chemistbt, Vol. I- The Non-Metallic Elements. Witli Numerous Illustrations 
and Portrait of Dalton. 8vo. 21s. Vol. II. Metals. 2 Parts. With numerous 
Illustrations. 8vo. 18s. each. 
Volume III.— Organic Chemistry. lln the Press. 

SCHORLEMMER.— A MANUAL OF THE CHEMISTRY OF 

THE CARBON COMPOUNDS, OR ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. By C. 
ScHORLEMMEB, P.R.S., Lectuier on Organic Chemistry in Owens College, 
Manchester. 8vo. 14*. 

SEATON.— A HANDBOOK OF YACCINATION. By Edward 
C. Seaton, M.D., MediQal Inspector to the Privy Council Extra fcap. 8vo, 
•Ss, 6d. 

SBILER.— MICRO-PHOTOGRAPHS IN HISTOLOGY, Normal 
and Pathological. By Carl Seiler, M.D., in conjunction with J. Gibbons 
Htjhi, M.D., and J. Gt. Riohardsou, M.D. 4to. 31s. 6rJ. 

SIBSON.— THE COLLECTED WORKS OF DR. FRANCIS SIB- 
SON. Edited by W. M. Okd, M.D. With Illustrations. Four Volumes. ■ 

[In the press. 

SPENDER.— THERAPEUTIC MEANS FOR THE RELIEF OF 
PAIN. Being the Prize Essay for which the Medical Society of London 
awarded the iFothergillian Gold Medal in 1874. By John Kent Spender, M.D, 
Lend., Surgeon to the Mineral Water Hospital, Bath. Svo. 8s. ad, 

STEWART (B.).— LESSONS IN ELEMENTARY PHYSICS. By 

Balfodr Stewart, F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy in Owens 

College, Manchester. With Numerous Illustrations and Chromolithograph of 

the Speotra of the Sun, Stars, and Nebulae. New Edition. Fcap. Svo. 4». 6d. 

PRIMER OF PHYSICS. By the same Author. Illustrated. 18mo. la. 



8 MACMILLAN AKD CO.'S MEDICAL CATALOGUE. 

TUKE— INSAIiriTY IN ANCIENT AND MODERN LIFE, witt 

Chapters on its Prevention. By D. Hack Tuke, M.D., F.II.C.P. Crown 8vo. 

6s. 

" This work exhibits deep research in various directions, and teems with allusions 

and quotations which prove the author to be not only an accomplished psyulio- 

logical physician, but a scholar of no mean order/* — Medical Times. 

WEST-— HOSPITAL OKGANISATION. With special reference to 
the organisation of Hospitals for Children. By Charles West, M.D. Founder 
of, and for twenty-three yeafe Physician to, the Hospital for Sick Children, 
Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

A 

WURTZ.— A HISTORY OF CHEMICAI, THEORY from the Age 

of Lavoisier down to the present time. By Ad. 'Wubtz. Translated by Henry 
Watisb, F.R.S. Crown 8vo. 6». 



PRICE EIBHTEEN PENCE, M N T B IfT, 

THE PRACTITIONER: 

EDITED B? 

T. LAUDER BRUNTON, M.t)., E.R.S., 

Fellow of the Boyal College of PJi/yaicicms ; 

Assistant Physicicm to St. BartTmomew's Hospital: and Lectv/rer on Materia 

Medica and Theroupefuiics in St. Ba^tlioLomew's Hospital School. 

CONTENTS. 

Original Communications — Reviews of Books— Clinic, of the Month— Extracts 
from British aud Foreign Journals- Kotes and Queries— Bibliography — and the 
Public Health Department. 



In Quarterly Parts, price Zs. Gd.y and Yearly Volumes, 15s. 

BRAIN: 

A JOURNAL OF NEUROLOGY, 



J. C. BUCKNILL, M.D., M.RC.P., F.R.S. 
J. CRICHTON-BROWNE, M.D., F.R.S.E. 
D. FERRIER. M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.S. 
J. HUGHLINGS-JACKSON, M.I)., F.R,C.P. 

eoNTENTS-«-Original Articles, eonsistingmainly of Clinical and Pathological Records 
and Anatomical and Physiological Researches, Human and Comparative, on 
the Nervous System. Signed Critical Digests and Reviews of Clinical, Experi- 
mental and other Researches in this department of Science, both at home and 
abroad. , Foreign Correspondence. It will be the object of "Brain" to keep 
its readers well abreast of modern progress in Neurolo^, and to advance the 
knowledge of a class of disease respecting whit^ it is universally admitted that 
much has yet to be learnt. 



