ALBEKT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 



CORNE L UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 



31924 089 525 509 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089525509 



Vegetarian Cook Book 

Substitutes for Flesh Foods 




By E. G. FULTON 



Pacific Press Publishing Association 

Mountain View, California 
Kanaaa City, Missouri Calgary, Alberta, Canada Portland, Orezon 



TX 

-nix 



Copyright. 1910, 1914, by 
'Pacific 'Press 'Publishing Jlssocialion 



PREFACE 



The enthusiasm with which the first edition of "The 
"Vegetarian Cook Book" was received by the public, and 
the increasing demand for a more extended work on the 
same subject, have led to a careful revision of the book. 
This edition, like the former, is placed upon the market 
with the intention of supplying a need not met by the 
ordinary cook book. 

It is a recognized fact that the foundation for many 
of the ills of the human race is laid at the table through 
the eating of unwholesome food. Believing that preven- 
tion is better than cure, special attention has been given 
to the preparation of healthful as well as palatable dishes. 
True to this plan, and as suggested by the name of the 
book, all meat recipes have been omitted, the superiority 
of other foods being recognized. Nor are the advantages 
of a vegetarian diet any longer a matter of experiment. 
The prevalence of disease among animals is leading thou- 
sands of thinking men and women to discard flesh foods, 
and to turn to the more natural diet of nuts, grains, 
fruits, and vegetables. Special attention has been given 
in this book to the preparation of foods that will consti- 
tute appetizing and nutritious substitutes for meat dishes. 
An effort has also been made in all recipes to avoid such 
combinations of food elements as interfere with the proc- 
esses of digestion. In fact, wholesome food, palatable, in 

(3) 



4 VBGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

abundant variety, and with economy in the cost of prep- 
aration, may be said to be the message of the book. 

In revising the original work, many new recipes have 
been added, as well as several entire chapters intended to 
make the book of greater value for family use, and also 
for restaurant and sanitarium work. Accuracy in detail 
has been followed throughout in the preparation of recipes ; 
and this second edition is submitted to the public with the 
firm belief that all who give the book a fair trial will find 
a vegetarian diet both pleasing and healthful. 

E. G. F. 



CONTENTS 



Bakery and Breakfast Dishes 170-183 

Beverages 227-229 

Cakes 164-169 

Cereals 184-190 

Dairy Dishes 202-206 

Eggs 196-202 

Entrees 25-69 

Food Combinations 245-248 

Food Tables 241-244 

Frihts and Their Preparation 216-219 

General Suggestions 249, 250 

Hygiene of Cooking 7-10 

Ices and Sherbets 220-226 

Liquid Foods 207, 208 

Nut Preparations 212-215 

Pies 156-163 

Preface 3, 4 

Puddings 127-150 

Pudding Sauces 151-155 

Salads 106-119 

Salad Dressings 120-126 

(5) 



6 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Sandwiches 209-211 

Sauces foe Vegetables, Enteees, Etc 100-105 

Soups 11-24 

Table Etiquette and Rules foe Waitees 251-263 

Toasts 191-195 

Utensils 230-240 

Vegetables 70-99 



GOOD COOKING 




Good cooking is not the result of accident, a species of 
good luck, as it were. There is reason in every process ; a 
law governiag every chemical change. A course of med- 
ical lectures does not make a physician, nor will a collec- 
tion of choice recipes make a cook. There must be a knowl- 
edge of compounding, as well as of compiling; of baking, 
as well as of mixing; and above all, one must engage in 
the real doing. Theory alone will not suffice; but ex- 
perience, which practise only can give, is of the utmost 
importance. 

Mention will be made, under this head, of only those 
forms of cooking which enter into vegetarian cookery as 
usually understood. 

BOILING 

The term "boiling," as applied to cookery, means cook- 
ing in a boiling liquid. Many kinds of food need the ac- 
tion of water or other liquid, combined with heat, to cook 
them in the best manner; and boiling is one of the most 
common forms of cookery. When water becomes too hot 
to bear the hand in it with comfort, it has reached one hun- 
dred and fifty degrees, or the scalding point. When there 
is a gentle tremor or undulation on the surface, one hun- 
dred and eighty degrees, or the simmering point, is reached. 
When there is quite a commotion on the surface of the 

(7) 



8 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

water, and the bubbles breaking above it throw ofiE steam 
or watery vapor, two hundred and twelve degrees, or the 
boiling point, is reached. After \Yater reaches the boil- 
ing point, it becomes no hotter, no matter how violently 
it may boil. The excess of heat escapes in steam. This 
important fact is rarely understood by the average cook; 
and much fuel is often needlessly wasted because of the 
mistaken idea that rapidly boiling water cooks food more 
quickly. 

In all ordinary cooking, simmering is more effective 
than violent boiling. The temperature of the water may 
be slightly raised by covering the kettle. If sugar or salt, 
or anything to increase its density, is added to water, it 
takes longer for it to boil, but its boiling temperature is 
higher. This explains why boiling sirup and boiling salt 
water are hotter than boiling fresh water. Boiling effects 
partial destruction or removal of organic and mineral im- 
purities found in water; hence the importance of boiling 
the water where such impurities exist. Boiling also ex- 
pels all the air and the gases which give fresh water its 
sparkle and vitality; therefore the sooner water is used 
after it begins to boil, the more satisfactory will be the 
cooking. 

Fresh water should be used when the object is to ex- 
tract the flavor, or soluble parts, as in soups and broths. 
Salt water should be used when it is desired to retain the 
flavor and soluble parts, as in most green vegetables. Cold 
water draws out the starch of vegetables. Boiling water 
bursts starch grains, and is absorbed by the swelling 
starch, and softens the cellulose in cereals and vegetables. 



GOOD COOKING 



MILK 



In cookiiig some kinds of food, milk is used instead of 
water. Milk being thicker than water, less of the steam 
escapes, and it becomes hot sooner than water, adheres to 
the pan, and burns easily. At its boiling temperature 
(214 degrees), the casein contained in the milk is slightly 
hardened, and its fat rendered more difficult of digestion. 
By heating milk in a double boiler, these dangers are 
avoided. The process is a form of steaming. The milk 
then reaches a temperature of only 196 degrees, and is 
called scalding milk. 

STEAMING 

The process of cooking food over boiling water is 
termed steaming. It is a very satisfactory and convenient 
method, without much loss of substance. It takes a longer 
time than some other ways of cooking, but requires less 
attention. There are two methods of cooking by steam: 
(1) In a steamer, which is a covered pan with perforated 
bottom. The steamer is placed over boiling water, and the 
steam carries the heat directly to the food. (2) By means 
of a double boiler. By this method the heat is conveyed 
from the boiling water, through the inner boiler, to the 
food. When cooking by steam, the water should boil 
steadily until the food is done. Watery vegetables are 
made drier by steaming, and flour mixtures develop a dif- 
ferent flavor from that which they have when baked. 

STEWING 
This is cooking in a small quantity of water at a low 
temperature for a long time, and is a form of boiling. 



10 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

The food loses less nutriment when stewed than when 
rapidly boiled. 

BAKING 

Cooking by means of dry heat, as in a close oven, is 
known as baking. The closely confined heat of the oven 
develops flavors which are entirely different from those 
obtained by other forms of cooking. For many kinds of 
food the baking is as important as the mixing; and every 
cook should thoroughly understand how to regulate the 
oven. Nearly all flour mixtures, as bread, cakes, and 
many kinds of pudding, are more wholesome when baked 
than when cooked in any other way. 

BRAIZING 

This is a combination of stewing and baking. Meat 
cooked in a closely covered stew-pan, so that it retains its 
own flavor and the flavors of the vegetables and seasonings 
put with it, is braized. Dishes thus cooked are highly 
esteemed. 

BROILING 

Broiling, meaning "to burn," is cooking directly over, 
or in front of, the clear flre, and is the hottest form of 
cooking. The intense heat, combined with the free action 
of the air, produces a fine flavor quite unlike that obtained 
in any other way. Pan broiling is broiling on a hot sur- 
face instead of over hot coals. 



SOUPS 



Cream soups are seasonable at any time, using any- 
vegetable in its season. Canned goods may be used when 
the fresh article is not obtainable. 

Vegetables that are too tough and old to cook in any 
other way, may be used in soups. A teaspoonful of whipped 
cream dropped into each plate is very delicious. 

By a puree is meant a soup thicker than a cream soup. 
If properly made, cream soups and purees are dainty, de- 
licious, and nourishing. 

Fruit soups are in favor during hot weather, for 
dinners and luncheons; they are very easily made, and 
are wholesome and refreshing. Any desired fruit juice 
may be thickened with corn-starch, sago, or arrowroot, and 
served with or without fruit, hot, or cold with cracked ice. 

KINDS OF SOUP 

Observing these proportions and following the fore- 
going directions, delicious cream soups are made of rice, 
squash, celery, peas, asparagus, cucumbers, spinach, pea- 
nuts, potatoes, corn, Lima beans, cauliflower, beets, toma- 
toes, salsify, chestnuts, mushrooms, onions, baked beans, 
lentils, macaroni, spaghetti, watercress, string-beans, sago, 
tapioca, barley, carrots, etc. AH vegetables should be 
cooked very tender in boiling water. Add salt a short 
time before removing ; if added when the vegetables first 
start cooking, it tends to harden them, and they therefore 

(11) 



12 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

require longer cooking. They may be added to the soup 
with or without forcing through a colander. Rice and 
barley may be cooked in a stew-pan, but sago and tapioca 
should be cooked in a double boiler. If chestnuts are to 
be used, they should be boiled and mashed. Macaroni, 
spaghetti, and vermicelli should be broken the desired 
length before being put into the boiling water. String- 
beans should be minced before they are added to the soup. 

VEGETABLE STOCK 

Boil minced turnips, carrots, celery, and onions in 
enough water to make half the amount of stock required. 
When the vegetables are done, drain, .and add an equal 
amount of rich bean broth, with a little brown flour, nut 
butter, celery salt, and just enough strained tomato to 
remove the sweet vegetable taste. This stock should be 
of the consistency of broth when done. Protose may be 
cooked with the vegetables if it can be afforded. The 
vegetables should be put to cook in cold water, that the 
substance and flavor may be well drawn out. 

FOUNDATION OF CREAM SOUPS 

Rub one heaping tablespoon of butter and two of 
sifted flour to a cream; melt in a saucepan over the fire, 
and add slowly four cups of milk, stirring constantly. 
When it thickens, add salt, and whatever seasoning and 
ingredients are desired to make the soup. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP 

Take thin slices of bread, cut them into little squares, 
and brown to a golden color in a quick oven. 



SOUPS 13 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP 

Egg yolks, hard-boiled, 6. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Flour, % tablespoon. 
Egg yolks, raw, 2. 

Rub the hard-boiled yolks and flour smooth, then add 
the raw yolks and the salt. Mix all well together, make 
into balls, and drop into the soup a few minutes before 
serving. 

EGG DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP 

Milk, 1 cup. 
Flour. 
Eggs, 2. 

Beat the eggs well, add the milk, and as much flour as 
will make a smooth, rather thick baiter, free from lumps. 
Drop this batter, a tablespoonful at a time, into the boil- 
ing soup. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP 

Beat one egg till light, add a pinch of salt, and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough. Roll out very thin ; sprinkle 
with flour to keep from sticking. Then roll up into a 
scroll; and beginning at the end, slice into strips as 
thin as straws. After all are cut, mix them lightly to- 
gether; and to prevent their sticking together, keep them 
floured a little till you are ready to drop them into the 
soup, which should be a few minutes before serving. If 
boiled too long they go to pieces. 

2 — Cook Book 



14 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

VEGETABLE BOUILLON 

Vegetable soup stock, 2 quarts. 

Tomatoes, cooked and strained, 2 cups. 

Bay leaves, 2. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Onions, grated, medium size, 2. 

Mix all the ingredients together, and let simmer slowly 
two or three hours. There should be about one quart of 
soup when done. Strain, reheat, and serve. 

WHITE BEAN SOUP 

White beans, 1 cup. 
Onion, medium size, 1. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Water, 2 quarts. 
Nut butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Stew the beans and onions in the water until tender; 
add nut butter and salt; press through a sieve, bring to a 
boil, and serve. The addition of some cream will improve 
this soup. 

BEAN TAPIOCA SOUP 

White beans, % cup. 

Tapioca, y^ cup. 

Salt. 

Water, 4 cups. 

Hot water. 

Cream. 

Cook the beans in water till well done; press through 
a strainer, add tapioca, and cook till clear; add hot water 
to make of proper consistency ; season with salt and cream ; 
heat well, and serve. 



SOUPS 15 

LIMA BEAN SOUP 

Lima bean or brown bean soup may be prepared the 
same as bean tapioca soup, omitting the tapioca. 

BEAN AND TOMATO SOUP 

Beans, boiled, 1 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Rice, cooked, 14 cup. 

Salt. 

Tomatoes, stewed, 2 cups. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Boiling water for required consistency. 
Eub the beans and tomatoes through a sieve; add salt, 
butter rubbed in flour, cooked rice, and enough boiling 
water to make the proper consistency; reheat and serve. 

BEAN BROTH 

Small white beans, 2 cups. 

Onion, small. 1. 

Salt. 

Celery salt. 

Butter. 
"Wash the beans ; add the onion, and cold water enough 
that when they have cooked three hours there will be six 
cups of liquid. Strain and add a pinch of celery salt and a 
small piece of butter. Salt to taste. This broth may be 
served to the sick instead of beef tea. 

CELERY AND TOMATO SOUP 

Celery, 2 cups. 
Vegetable stock, 2 cups. 
Celery salt. 
Tomatoes, 2 cups. 
Salt. 



16 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Chop the celery rather fine, and cook in a little water 
till tender, press through a sieve, and add the tomato, 
salt, and soup stock; heat well, and serve. 

CREAM CELERY SOUP 

Celery, stewed, 1 cup. 
Milk, 1 quart. 

Broth from the celery, 1 cup. 
Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Heat the milk, and thicken with the flour. Press the 
celery through a colander, and add it and the other in- 
gredients to the milk. Reheat and serve. 

CREAM RICE SOUP 

Rice, 2 tablespoons. 
Milk, 5 cups. 
Salt. 

Celery salt. 
Wash the rice in warm water, and add to the boiling 
milk; cook until tender, season, and serve. 

CREAM CORN SOUP 

Corn, 1 can. 

Cream or milk, 4 cups. 

Salt. 

Grind the corn in vegetable mill, and press through a 
fine colander; add the cream and salt; heat and serve. 

CORN SOUP 

Sweet corn, rubbed fine, 2 cups. 
Vegetable soup stock, 4 cups. 
Salt, 1 heaping tablespoon. 



SOUPS 17 

If desired, add more water. Bring to a boil, rub ■ 
through a colander, reheat and serve. 

CORN AND TOMATO SOUP 

Kornlet, ground fine, li^ cups. 
Tomatoes, strained, 2 cups. 
Water, 1 cup. 

Mix thoroughly, season with salt, heat to boiling point, 
and serve. 

NUT CHOWDER SOUP 

Nuttolene or protose, y^ pound. 

Eggs, hard-boiled, 3. 

Onions, browned, 3. 

Sage, 1 teaspoon. 

Thyme, 1 teaspoon. 

Bay leaves, 2. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Chop all together till fine, then add to boiling strained 
tomatoes, four cups; add boiling water, one cup; thicken 
with flour, one tablespoonful ; reheat and serve. 

RICE AND VEGETABLE SOUP 

Rice, 1-3 cup. 
Potato, 1. 
Carrot, 1. 
Turnip, 1. 
Onion, 1. 
Celery, 2 stalks. 
Butter, size of walnut. 
Salt. 



18 VEGBTAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Grind the raw carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, and 
put with the rice into three quarts of water; salt, boil 
fifteen minutes, add the ground potatoes and the butter, 
and cook until done. 

CEBAM PEA SOUP 

Peas, 1 can. 

Eich milk, 1 quart. 

Flour. 

Salt. 

Drain the juice from the peas; press the peas through 
a colander; add the portion left in the colander to the 
milk, stir, and press through again ; heat, salt, and thicken. 

CLEAR TOMATO SOUP 

Tomatoes, strained, 1 quart. 

Water, 1 pint. 

Onion, 1 slice. 

Salt. 

Butter. 

Bay leaf. 

Place all in a stew-pan, and cook for fifteen minutes; 
strain, reheat, and serve. 

TOMATO BISQUE 

Tomatoes, 1 pint. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Nut butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 4 cups. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Bay leaf, 1. 

Onion, small, 1. 



SOUPS 19 

Place the butter in a pot ; put in one bay leaf and one 
small onion, and let it braize till light brown ; add the flour, 
and stir until well mixed ; then add hot milk, stirring con- 
stantly to keep smooth. Heat the tomatoes in which has 
been emulsified the nut butter, and thicken slightly with 
flour. Beat the tomato and milk together carefully, salt, 
heat thoroughly, strain, and reheat and serve. 

PLAIN TOMATO SOUP 

Tomatoes, strained, 3 cups. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Flour, 1 teaspoon. 
Salt. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir the flour in well, 
and add the tomatoes and stock; let boil five minutes, sea- 
son, and serve. In place of the stock, barley water, or 
the broth from peas, beans, rice, etc., may be used. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

Tomatoes, 2 cups. 
Rich milk, 1 cup. 
Flour. 
Salt. 

Heat the milk and tomatoes in separate double boilers, 
and thicken both with flour to consistency desired for soup ; 
cook about five minutes; pour half of the thickened milk 
in a round-bottomed dish, and beat constantly while add- 
ing slowly the thickened tomato ; then add, while still beat- 
ing, the remainder of the milk ; salt and serve. If skimmed 
milk is used, add butter before serving. 



20 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

TOMATO VERMICELLI SOUP 

Tomatoes, strained, 3 cups. 
Vermicelli, y^, cup. 
Water, 2 cups. 

Cook the vermicelli in the tomatoes till done, and add 
water; if too thin, bind with a little thickening of butter 
and flour. A rounded tablespoonful of each will be enough 
for each quart of soup. Macaroni, spaghetti, or alphabet 
letter may be used instead of vermicelli. 

LENTIL AND TOMATO SOUP 

Lentils, 1 cup. 

Water, 4 cups. 

Nut butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Onion, 1. 

Tomatoes, stewed, 2 cups. 

Flour, browned, 1 tablespoon. 

Stew the lentils and the onion in water one hour; 
add stewed tomatoes, nut butter, and browned flour ; bring 
to a brisk boil, season with salt, press through a colander, 
reheat, and serve. 

GERMAN LENTIL SOUP 

Lentils, % cup. 

Carrot, a few slices. 

Nut butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Celery, one sprig, or a little celery salt. 

Salt. 

Water, 4 cups. 

Turnip, a few slices. 

Apple sauce, I/2 cup. 

Onion, 1. 



SOUPS 21 

Boil the lentils in the water with the onion, carrot, 
turnips, and celery; boil gently about one and one half 
hours; put through a sieve, and return to soup kettle; 
add nut butter and apple sauce; bring to a boil, salt, and 
serve. 

If necessary, add a little boiling water or rich milk to 
thin the soup. 

MOCK CHICKEN SOUP 

Butter, ^4: cup. 

Onion, small size, 1. 

Celery stalk, 1. 

Milk, li/i quarts. 

Egg, 1. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Parsley, chopped fine, 1 teaspoon. 

Nuttolene, 3 tablespoons. 

Flour. 

Put the butter in a saucepan with the onion, parsley, 
and celery; cook it to a golden brown color. Stir the 
flour in, and cook until brown, being careful not to scorch. 
Pour in the milk boiling hot, and stir briskly to prevent 
lumping. Add the nuttolene. Beat the egg with enough 
flour to make a stiff batter, but thin enough to pour; pour 
this into the boiling stock, stirring at the same time. This 
will appear as small dumplings in the soup. Let simmer 
twenty or thirty minutes ; salt and serve. 



22 VEaETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

VEGETABLE OYSTER SOUP 

Vegetable oysters, 1 quart. 

Milk, 1 quart. 

"Water, 2 quarts. 

Flour, 4 tablespoons. 

Butter. 

Salt. 

Slice the vegetable oysters very thin, and cook in the 
water until tender; thicken with a little of the flour, also 
thicken the milk which has been heated. Add the thick- 
ened milk to the vegetable oysters, season with butter and 
salt, and serve. 

OKRA SOUP 

Okra, 1 pint can. 
Tomatoes, strained, 1 quart. 
Water, 1 pint. 
Salt. 

Put the okra into the strained tomatoes, and stew for 
fifteen minutes; force through a colander, and add water 
and salt; reheat and serve. 

PLAIN VEGETABLE SOUP 

Water, 6 cups. 

Tomatoes, strained, 2 cups. 

Carrot, 1. 

Potato, 1. 

Turnip, 1. 

Onions, 2. 

Celery stalk, 1. 

Shave the vegetables to fine shreds, add to water and 
tomatoes, and cook moderately for two hours. Season with 



SOUPS 23 

sage or thyme, salt to taste, and add a little chopped 
parsley just before serving. 

JULIENNE SOUP 

Fresh peas, 1-3 cup. 
Potatoes, chopped, % cup. 
Tomato, i/4 cup. 
Broth, 1 quart. 
Carrots, cut in dice, % cup. 
Turnips, chopped, 1-3 cup. 
Onion, miaced, 1. 
Parsley, chopped. 

Cook the turnips and carrots together in just enough 
water to prevent scorching, the potatoes and onions in the 
same manner, the peas by themselves. "When all are done, 
mix together, and add the broth from beans, barley, or 
vegetable stock, salt, tomato, and parsley ; reheat and serve. 
The water the vegetables are cooked in should be used 
in the soup. 

WHITE SWISS SOUP 

Rice, % cup. 
Onion, small, 1. 
Rich milk, li^ cups. 
Flour, y^ teaspoon. 
Water, 2 cups. 
Potato, 1. 
Egg yolk, 1. 
Salt. 

Boil the rice in water, and add the onion and potato. 
When the vegetables are well done, add the rich milk, 
and bring to a boil. Beat well the yolk of the egg with 



24 VEaETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

the flour, and stir in the boiling soup. Let it boil, season 
with salt, rub through a sieve, reheat, and serve. 

CREAM POTATO SOUP 

Milk or cream, 1 quart. 
Potatoes, mashed, 3 cups. 
Salt. 

A palatable soup may be made very quickly by adding 
hot milk to mashed potatoes in the proportion given above. 
This may be seasoned with celery salt, onion, or otherwise, 
according to taste. 

FAMILY FAVORITE 

Soup stock, 3 cups. 

Sliced okra, 1 pod. 

Salt. 

Tomatoes, stewed, 14 cup. 

"Water, 1 cup. 

Mix all together, and boil one hour ; strain, reheat, and 
serve. 

FRUIT SOUP 

Strawberry or other juice, 1 cup. 
Pineapple juice, 1 cup. 
Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 
Sago, 1 tablespoon. 
Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

With the strawberry or other juice cook the sago in 
double boiler; add the pineapple and lemon juice and 
sugar; cool, and serve in sherbet cups with chipped ice. 



ENTREES 



MOCK WHITEFISH 

Farina or cream of wheat, 1-3 cup. 

Butter, 1 scant teaspoon. 

Mace, 14 teaspoon. 

Salt to taste. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Onion, grated, 1 tablespoon. 

Potatoes, mashed, 3 cups. 

Heat the milk to boiling, stir in the farina or cream of 
wheat, butter, onion, mace, and salt. Have the potatoes 
ready, freshly cooked and mashed; while hot, add the 
farina mixture, stir, and put into a pan to cool. Let stand 
at least twelve hours. Cut in slices about five inches 
long, dip in egg and crumbs, put in oiled pan, and bake 
until nicely browned. Serve with parsley or butter sauce. 



FILLETS OF VEGETARIAN SALMON 

Milk, 11/2 cups. 
Farina, 1^ cup. 

Tomatoes, cooked and strained, y^ cup. 
Egg, 1. 
Salt to taste. 

Nuttolene or nut loaf, ^/^ cup. 
Eggplant, boiled and mashed, iy<^ cups. 
Bread crumbs, fine and dry, 1 cup. 
Color, vegetable red enough to make salmon color. 

(25) 



26 VBaETAMAN COOK BOOK 

Cook and mash the eggplant, stir the nuttolene or nut 
loaf to a cream in a little of the milk, then add the rest 
of the milk, the eggplant, tomatoes, and salt. Set in 
double boiler; when scalding hot, add the farina and 
bread crumbs. Mix thoroughly, and let cook fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Remove from the range, stir in the raw 
egg and the color, mixing till the color is perfectly blended. 
Turn into a deep pan to cool; should be about two inches 
deep. When cold, cut into slices, egg, crumb," and bake. 
Serve with parsley sauce. The addition of a small por- 
tion of grated onion and a teaspoon of lemon juice may 
improve this for some. 

VEGETARIAN TAMALES 

Nuttolene or nut loaf, ^4 pound. 

Protose, 14 pound. 

Hominy, 1 pint. 

Onion, 14. 

Celery, minced, 1^ cup. 

Oil, 1/4 cup. 

Olives, 1 cup. 

Tomatoes, strained, 1 pint. 

Flour, 21^ tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Cook the minced onion and celery in the oil until 
brown; then add the flour, and next the hot strained to- 
matoes. "When well cooked, put in minced seeded olives, 
and the other ingredients, after they have been forced 
through a fine colander. Mix well, and set aside to cool 
and give the flavors time to blend well. Fill custard cups 
with this mixture, and bake. 



ENTREES 27 

VEGETARIAN HAMBURGER STEAK 

Protose or nut cero, 1 pound. 

Sage, 1/^ teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. 

Nuttolene, i/^ pound. 

Onion, grated, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix thoroughly, form into patties, and brown in a hot 
oven. Serve with tomato sauce. 

VEGETARIAN SAUSAGE 

Boiled rice, 3 cups. 
Onion, grated, 1. 
Protose, 1 pound. 
Salt, iy2 teaspoons. 
Oil, 3 tablespoons. 
Sage, 3 teaspoons. 
Egg, 1. 

Form into patties, roll in gluten or browned flour, put 
a small piece of butter on top of each, and brown in the 
oven. 

NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER 

Potatoes, 4% cups. 
Turnips, 1 cup. 
Onions, 2 cups. 
Carrots, 1% cups. 
Cabbage, 2% cups. 

Cut the potatoes, carrots, and turnips in three-quarter- 
inch cubes; slice the onions, and cut the cabbage into 
pieces about one and one half inches square. Boil the 
potatoes and onions together. The carrots and turnips may 



28 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

also be cooked together in salted water. The cabbage may 
either be cooked separately or be added to the carrots 
and turnips when they are partially cooked. When all 
are done, mix together, and serve with slices of protose 
or other nut food that has been braized in a tomato or 
brown sauce. 

BAKED EGGPLANT A LA CEEME 

Eggplant, 6 slices. 

Milk, 3 cups. 

Butter. 

Bread crumbs, toasted, y^, cup. 

Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Peel the eggplant, and cut in slices about three fourths 
of an inch thick. Place slices in a pan, and cover with 
sifted toasted bread crumbs or sifted granola. Pour over 
this the milk, add salt and small piece of butter, and bake. 
If it becomes too dry, add a little more milk. 

BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES 

Tomatoes, medium size, 6. 

Protose, chopped, i/^ pound. 

Sage, % teaspoon. 

Parsley, chopped. 

Bread crumbs, toasted, % cup. 

Onion, chopped, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Take out the inside of the tomatoes, and mix with this 
the bread crumbs. Then add the other ingredients, and 
fill, the tomatoes, piling mixture up on top. Place a small 



ENTBEES 29 

piece of butter on each, and bake in a hot oven, until the 
tomatoes are cooked. When nearly done, sprinkle chopped 
parsley over the top. 

POTATO CHOWDER, PLAIN 

Potatoes, diced, 2 quarts. 
Onion, sliced, 1. 
Celery, minced, I/2 cup. 
Parsley, minced, 2 tablespoons. 
Cream sauce, 1 pint. 
Salt. 

Place all in layers in a granite pan, adding a little salt 
with each layer. Cover with hot water, and cook under 
cover, in oven, until tender; then add a pint of cream 
sauce, and serve. 

CORN CHOWDER 

Milk, 2 quarts. 
Corn, 1 can. 
Potatoes, diced, 2 cups. 
Onion, grated, 14 teaspoon. 
Butter, size of walnut. 
Flour, 3 tablespoons. 
Salt. 

Put the butter into the milk, and heat ; thicken with the 
flour, braided smooth with a little cold milk; add the 
onion, salt, corn, and potatoes; pour into a granite pan, 
and bake under cover until the potatoes are tender. 

ESCALLOPED CORN 

Com, 2 cans. 

Tomatoes, 6. 

Tomato sauce, li/^ cups. 

Salt. 

3 — Cook Book 



30 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Grind the corn, and place a layer of it on the bottom 
of a granite pan; on this slice the peeled tomatoes. Now 
cover with the remainder of the corn, and then with the 
tomato sauce J sprinkle with bread crumbs; bake. 

BAKED COEN 

Corn, 1 can. 

Egg, 1. 

Oil, 1^ cup. 

Milk, % cup. 

Flour, l^ cup. 

Bread crumbs, % cup. 

Salt. 

Braid the flour with a portion of milk, beat the egg, 
mix all together, and bake until well set and browned. 

GEEEN CORN NUT PIE 

Corn,' ground, 2 cans. 

Rich milk, 1 cup. 

Flour. 

Eggs, beaten, 2. 

Salt to taste. 

Onion, minced, 1. 

Celery, chopped, l^ cup. 

Oil or butter. 

Water, 1 cup. 

Tomatoes, strained, % cup. 

Nuttolene or protose, minced, % cup. 

Mix the corn, the milk, three fourths of a cup of flour, 
the beaten eggs, and the salt. Braize the celery and onion 
in a little butter or oil, and add to them two table- 
spoons of flour, and the water, tomatoes, and minced nut- 



ENTREES 31 

tolene or protose. Oil a baking pan, and cover the bottom 
with one half of the corn mixture ; then put in the nut food 
mixture and on top put the remainder of the corn. Bake 
till nicely browned. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER PIE 

Vegetable oysters, 1 quart. 

Potatoes, 1 cup. 

Cream sauce, 2^^ cups. 

Pie paste sufficient to cover. 

Parsley, chopped, 1 teaspoon. 

Parsnips, 1 cup. 

Salt. 

Boil the vegetables separately until tender; then mix 
with the other ingredients, and put in a shallow baking 
pan. Cover with the pie paste, and bake a light brown. 
Serve hot. 

FISH PIE 

(Vegetarian) 

Macaroni, 2 cups. 

Onion, 1. 

Cream sauce, 2 cups. 

Salt to taste. 

Eggs, 3. 

Parsley, chopped fine, 1 teaspoon. 

Cook the macaroni in salted water, drain, and chop 
fine; have the eggs boiled hard and chopped fine, and the 
onion grated. Mix all together, sprinkle with toasted bread 
crumbs, and brown in the oven. Serve with tomato chilli 
sauce. 



32 TEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

MOCK CHICKEN PIE 

Potatoes, boiled, 4 cups. 

Nuttolene or nut loaf, y^ pound. 

Eggs, 3. 

Pie crust. 

Protose or nut cero, ^2 pouiid. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Onion and parsley, chopped. 

Nut gravy. 

Substitute milk for tomatoes in the nut gravy. 

Put into an oiled baking pan a layer of the thinly sliced 
boiled potato, and over this a layer of nuttolene or nut 
loaf cut into thin slices. Sprinkle on a little chopped 
onion and parsley, then a layer of sliced protose or nut 
cero. Pour the gravy over this, put the sliced hard-boiled 
eggs over all, and let set five minutes. Cover all with pie 
crust, and bake till done. 

BAKED POTPIE 

Protose or nut cero, 1 pound. 
Carrots, li/^ cups. 
Tomato, strained, 1 cup. 
Thyme. ' 
Potatoes, 2 cups. 
Onion, minced, y^ cup. 
Parsley, chopped. 

Cook the carrots about one hour, then add potatoes, 
onion, protose or nut cero, and a little chopped parsley. 
Simmer in just enough water to keep from burning until, 
potatoes are done. Season with thyme and salt to taste. 
Add the strained tomato, put in an oiled pan, and cover 



EKTEEES 33 

with a rich pie paste. Bake thirty to forty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



NUT AND VEGETABLE PIE 

Onion, minced, 1 cup. 
Parsley, minced, i/^ cup. 
Oil, 4 tablespoons. 
Carrots, mashed, 2 cups. 
Potatoes, mashed, 2 cups. 
Nut food, 1/^ pound. 
Eggs, 2. 

Brown the onion and parsley in the oil, and add the 
other ingredients. Salt to taste, and put in oiled pan. 
Pour over these a mixture made by beating one egg in 
one cup of milk, and bake in a moderate oven till it is 
nicely browned. 

TOMATO PIE 

Tomatoes, 6. 

Parsley, chopped. 

Salt. 

Cooking oil, 3 tablespoons. 

Pie paste. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes, and place in a small baking 
pan. On top of this put some chopped parsley, a pinch 
of salt, and cooking oil. Cover with thin pie paste, and 
bake. 

EGG MIXTURE FOR CROQUETTES, FILLETS, ETC. 

Break an egg into bowl or deep saucepan, and break 
up with a fork; add a tablespoonful of hot water, milk, 



34 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

or cream to soften the albumen of the egg, and mix, but 
do not beat in too much air. Dip the croquettes in the 
egg, roll in crumbs, and bake. 

MOCK CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Corn, 11/^ cans. 

Walnuts, chopped, 14 cup. 

Bread crumbs. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Cream, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 3. 

Salt. 

Grind the com, and mix all together ; form into desired 
shape; roll in bread crumbs, and bake. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Potatoes, mashed, i^ cup. 
Bread crumbs, toasted, 2-3 cup. 
Nut butter, 14 cup. 
Egg, hard-boiled, chopped fine, 1. 
Onion, browned, 14 cup. 
Sage, 1 teaspoon. 
Hot water, % cup. 
Walnuts, chopped, 14 cup. 
Nuttolene, minced, 2 tablespoons. 
Egg, beaten, 1. 
Rice, boiled, 1 cup. 
Salt, 3 teaspoons. 

Mix all together, and form into croquettes; dip into 
beaten eggs and milk, roll in browned bread crumbs which 
have been oiled or buttered, and bake. 



ENTREES 35 

NUT AND RICE CROQUETTES 

Nut cero, 1 cup. 

Rice, cooked, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. 

Salt. 

Sage. 

Onions, grated. 

Mix all the ingredients well, form into desired shape, 
roll in bread crumbs and egg, and bake until nicely 
browned. 

DRIED PEA CROQUETTES 

Dried peas, li/^ cups. 

Egg, 1. 

Salt. 

Oil, 2 teaspoons. 

Bread crumbs. 

Soak the peas overnight. "Wash, and cook in boiling 
water until tender. Drain, press through a colander, and 
salt. Mix thoroughly with other ingredients, and form 
into small rolls about three inches long, dip in beaten egg, 
roll in bread crumbs, and bake in a quick oven. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

BEAN CROQUETTES 

Navy beans, 1 cup. 
Oil, 1 tablespoon. 
Bread crumbs. 
Salt, 1 level teaspoon. 
Egg, beaten, 1. 



36 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Soak the beans overnight, drain, and cook in fresh boil- 
ing water until tender, or about an hour. Drain, press 
through a colander, add salt and oil. Mix thoroughly, and 
roll into cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip into beaten egg, 
roll in bread crumbs, and bake in moderate oven. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 



SWEET POTATO CEOQUETTES 

Sweet potatoes, cooked, 2 cups. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2. 

Cream, i^ cup. 

Salt. 

Mix all the ingredients well, form into desired shape, 
roll in bread crumbs, and bake. 



POTATO CROQUETTES 

Potatoes, steamed, 1 quart. 

Eggs, hard-boiled, 2. 

Flour. 

Cream, % cup. 

Salt. 

Onion, grated. 

Mash the fresh steamed potatoes, add salt and cream, 
then the grated onion and minced hard-boiled eggs. Next 
add flour or gluten in sufficient quantity to form into 
shape. Bake in a slow oven until nicely browned. 



ENTREES 37 

WALNUT LENTIL PATTIES 

Lentils, cooked, 2 cups. 
Eggs, 2. 

Walnuts, chopped, % cup. 
Granola or bread crumbs. 

Rub the lentils through a colander, and add the chopped 
walnut meats, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Thicken with 
bread crumbs or granola, form into patties, roll in egg 
and buttered crumbs, and bake. Serve with gravy. 

WALNUT LENTILS 

Lentils, 1% cups. 
Walnuts, 1 cup. 
Butter. 

Cook the lentils in six cups of water until they are quite 
tender and the water is almost dried away. Then press 
them through a soup strainer. Grind the walnut meats, 
and put with the lentils. Add a little butter, and salt 
to taste. 

LENTIL HASH 

Lentils, cooked, li/^ cups. 

Potatoes, cold boiled or baked, minced, 2 cups. 

Salt. 

Onion, minced, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Oil, 4 tablespoons. 

Heat the onions in oil, add flour, and cook; put into 
one and a half cups of hot water, season with salt, and 
put with the lentils and potatoes. Turn the whole into a 
bake pan, add a few small pieces of butter, and bake slowly. 



38 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

EICE MOLD WITH FRUIT COMPOTE 

Rice, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1/^ cup. 

Lemon or vanilla flavoring. 

Egg, 1. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Fruit, stewed. 

"Wash the rice clean, and boil in sufficient water until 
done. Drain the water off well. Add, while hot, a custard 
made of egg, milk, and sugar. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Cook until set. Form into molds, and serve with 
stewed prunes, peaches, or any other kind of fruit. 

RICE AND BANANA COMPOTE 

Rice, % cup. 
Milk, 3 cups. 
Vanilla. 
Bananas, 6. 
Sugar. 

Bring the milk to a boil, thicken with a teaspoonful of 
corn-starch or flour, and add sugar to taste. Simmer the 
bananas in this sauce for half an hour, press through a 
sieve, and season with vanilla. 

Rice foe Bananas: Cook the rice in two and one 
fourth cups of water in a double boiler till done. The rice 
should be soft and each grain standing out separate when 
done. Make a layer of the rice, and serve the bananas 
on it. 



ENTEEES . 39 

MOCK CHICKEN RISSOLES 

Protose or nut eero, % pound. 

Nuttolene or nut loaf, i^ pound. 

Milk, y^ cup. 

Bread crumbs. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter, 14 cup. 

Salt. 

Eggs, 2. 

Put the butter into a saucepan; when hot, stir in the 
flour, and brown; add the hot milk and salt, and let cook 
a few minutes. Remove from the stove, and when cool, 
work in the eggs one at a time. Chop the nut food fine, 
and add it, and bread crumbs enough that the mixture will 
not spread. Roll out pie paste as for pies, cutting into ob- 
long pieces about two and one half by five inches. Place 
on one end of this a spoonful of the filling; moisten the 
edges of the pie paste, and fold together over the filling; 
then cut in the form of a half circle. "With the finger press 
the cut edges closely together. Bake, and serve with jelly 
sauce. 

Lentil puree, rice, or other ingredients may be used 
instead of the nut food. The filling may also be seasoned 
with sage or grated onion. 

VEGETARIAN BEEFSTEAK 

Lentils, cooked, 1 pint. 

Bread crumbs, coarse, 3 cups. 

Oil, 14 cup. 

Sage. 

Cream, % cup. 

Salt. 



40 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Add the oil, salt, sage, and cream to the bread crumbs, 
and allow to soak for a few minutes; mix well with the 
sifted lentils, and steam for two hours or more. Allow 
to cool, then slice, and brown in an oiled pan. 

MOCK TURKEY WITH DRESSING 

German lentils, 1 cup. 

Walnut meats, chopped, y^, cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Salt. 

Celery salt. 

Granola or bread crumbs. 

Onion, minced, y^ cup. 

Celery, chopped, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2. 

Sage. 

Bread, sliced. 

1. Thoroughly wash the lentils, boil slowly until tender, 
and run through a colander. Add the walnut meats, one 
egg, and the minced onion browned with the chopped cel- 
ery in a little oil. Add salt and sage to taste". Thicken 
with granola or bread crumbs. 

2. Dip thin slices of bread in a mixture of one egg 
and a cup of milk; or thin slices of nuttolene or nut loaf 
may be used instead. 

Make alternate layers of 1 and 2. 

DRESSING NO. 1 

Stale bread, l^ loaf. 
Cold milk, 2 cups. 
Eggs, 1 or 2. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 



ENTEBES 41 

Crumb the bread, and soak in the milk. If the bread 
does not take up most of the milk, pour off some of it. 
Stir in beaten egg, and season with salt, sage, butter, and 
onions. Serve with cranberry sauce. 

DRESSING NO. 2 

Onions, large, 2. 

Stale bread, crumbed, 1 cup. 

Milk, % cup. 

Sage, 1 tablespoon. 

Eggs, beaten, 2. 

Parsley, chopped, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter, 14 cup. 

Salt to taste. 

Peel and parboil the onions. Drain, and chop fine. 
Soak the bread crumbs in the milk, then mix all the ingre- 
dients together. Bake until set. Serve a slice of roast 
with a spoonful of dressing on one end and cranberry sauce 
on the other. 

OLIVE PATTIES 

Olives, minced, 1 cup. 

Stale bread, % loaf. 

Eggs, 4. 

Onion, grated. 

Sage. 

Milk. 

Soak the bread in milk until well saturated; then 
squeeze out with the hand, and add the bread to the 
beaten egg yolks, olives, onion, and sage; mix well, form 
into shape, roll in bread crumbs, and bake. 



42 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

OLIVE AND POTATO PATTIES 

Potatoes, mashed, 2 cups. 

Egg, 1. 

Olives, minced, 2 tablespoons. 

Gluten. 

Beat egg into hot mashed potatoes, add the olives, and 
enough gluten that the mixture can be molded. Bake in a 
quick oven to a light brown. 

OLIVE AND NUT RAREBIT 

Olives, 1^ cup. 

Nuttolene, 14 pound. 

Protose or nut cero, 14 pound. 

Onion, grated. 

Sage. 

Salt. 

Bread. 

Egg, 1. 
Seed the olives, and mince with the protose or nut cero 
and nuttolene. Add the sage, grated onion, and salt, and 
mix well. Proceed as for making sandwiches. Trim the 
edges, cut in two in the center, drop in beaten egg, and 
cook as for cutlets. 

OLIVE FILLETS 

Olives, y^ cup. 

Nuttolene or nut loaf, 14 pound. 

Protose, ^ pound. 

Onion, grated. 

Sage. 

Salt. 

Bread. 

Brown gravy. 



ENTEEES 43 

Mince the nuttolene or nut loaf, protose, and seeded 
olives, and add the salt, sage, and grated onion. Mix well, 
and spread on thin slices of bread, cover with a second 
slice as for a sandwich, trim off the crusts, and cut 
through the center. Put a small amount of gravy in a 
granite pan, and place the prepared sandwiches therein, 
leaving an inch or so between them. Cover with the re- 
mainder of the gravy, and bake for twenty minutes. 

LENTIL FRITTERS 

Lentils, 1 cup. 
Rich milk, 14 cup. 
Egg, 1. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Flour, % cup. 

Cook the lentils until tender, drain, and press through 
a colander. Put with these the milk, butter, flour, salt, 
and beaten yolk, mix thoroughly, and add the stifHy beaten 
white. Drop in spoonfuls on oiled griddle, and brown on 
both sides, or bake in the oven. Garnish with parsley, and 
serve with marmalade or apple sauce. 

RICE AND EGG SCRAMBLE 

Rice, cooked, 2 cups. 
Eggs, 4. 
Milk, 4 cups. 

Scramble the eggs in the milk, add salt when nearly 
done, mix with the rice, and serve hot. 



44 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

SPANISH RICE 

Rice, 1 cup. 
Bay leaf, 1. 
Celery, minced, 1 stalk. 
Tomatoes, 2 cups. 
Onion, minced, small, 1, 
Oil, 2 tablespoons. 
Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Salt. 

Boil the rice until about two thirds done, drain, and 
finish cooking in the following sauce: 

Sauce : Put in a saucepan the oil, celery, onion, and 
bay leaf ; set over the fire, and stir occasionally to prevent 
burning, until brown. Then add the flour, and stir till 
brown. Pour in the tomatoes, let cook a few minutes, 
strain, and add to the rice. 

This sauce may be prepared by cooking the other ingre- 
dients in the tomatoes, and thickening with the flour 
braided in a little water. 

LENTIL ROAST 

Lentils, iy2 cups. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Granola, 1 cup. 
Eggs, 2. 
Onion, small, 1. 
Walnuts, ground, 1 cup. 
Salt. 

Cook the lentils in sufQcient water to prevent burning. 
When tender, add the sliced onion, butter, and salt to taste. 



ENTREES 45 

Cook for twenty-five to thirty minutes longer with the pot 
closely covered. 

Eemove from fire, drain, press through a colander, 
and put with the granola or bread crumbs, ground wal- 
nuts, and eggs. Mix well, press into a baking pan, and 
bake forty-five minutes, or until nicely browned. 



NUT AND POTATO ROAST 

Raw potato, large, 1. 

"Walnut meats, 1 cup. 

Bread crumbs, 1% cups. 

Eggs, 2. 

Butter, size of walnut. 

Onion, small, 1. 

Hot water, 1 cup. 

Salt. 

Tomatoes, strained, 1 pint. 

Grind the walnut meats, onion, and raw potato through 
a vegetable' mill, and mix with the hot water, bread crumbs, 
eggs, butter, and salt. Make a layer in the center of a 
granite pan, and pour over the hot strained tomatoes. 
Bake in a medium oven for one hour, basting occasionally 
with the tomato. If it is liable to burn on top, it should 
be covered. 

SCOTCH PEA LOAF 

Scotch pea pulp, 1^ cups. 
Egg, 1. 

Thyme or sage. 
Nut food, 1/^ pound. 
Butter, 2 teaspoons. 

4— Cook Book 



46 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Stir together; thicken with toasted bread crumbs or 
granola; bake. 

BEAN AND NUT LOAF 

White beans, 1 cup. 

Onion, 14 cup. 

Sage. 

Bread crumbs, toasted, or granola. 

Walnuts, chopped, 1 cup. 

Egg, 1. 
Salt. 

Thoroughly wash the beans, and soak overnight. Boil 
thoroughly, and when done rub through a colander. Add 
the chopped walnuts, egg, onion braized in oil, sage, and 
salt to taste. Thicken with granola or toasted bread crumbs. 
Put into an oiled pan, and bake. Serve with gravy. 



MOCK VEAL LOAF 

Nuttolene or nut loaf, 14 pound. 
Protose, minced, l^ pound. 
Egg, well beaten, 1. 
Milk, 1/4 cup. 
Sage, 14 teaspoon. 
Butter, size of an egg. 
Onion, small, braized in the butter, 1. 
Cracker or zwieback crumbs enough to 
make a stiff mixture. 

Mix all together, salt to taste, and bake in a deep bread- 
pan. Garnish with parsley or young celery hearts. 



ENTEEES 47 

HAMBUEGBR LOAF 

Lentils, raw, 1 cup. 

Protose or nut cero, % pound. 

Cooking oil, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Onion, chopped, % cup. 

Eggs, 5. 

Bread crumbs. 

Cook the lentils until tender, then simmer as dry as 
possible, and put through a colander. Brown the onions 
in oil, and add to the lentils, together with the protose 
or nut cero, and two raw eggs. Salt to taste, and mix in 
enough bread crumbs that it will mold nicely. 

Have the three remaining eggs boiled hard, and the 
shells removed. Put one half the loaf mixture into a 
bread-pan; then put the three hard-boiled eggs in a row 
through the center, and cover with the remaining mixture. 
Press down gently, and bake. Serve with sauce imperial. 

BOILED MACARONI, PLAIN 

Put two cups of macaroni, broken into inch lengths, 
into a saucepan, cover with plenty of boiling water, salted, 
and boil till tender, or about thirty minutes. Stir gently 
once or twice, to prevent sticking to the bottom. Add 
enough cold water to stop boiling,, and let it come to a 
boil again. Drain in a colander. Boiled macaroni may 
be served with a gravy or fruit sauce. 



48 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

CREAMED MACABONI 

Macaroni, 1 cup. 

Rich milk, 2 cups. 

Flour, 2 large tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Butter. 

Boil the macaroni, and put into a gravy made of the 
milk, flour, butter, and salt. Mix well, and serve. 

MACARONI IN CREAM 

Macaroni, ly^ cups. 
Milk, 4 cups. 
Egg yolk, 1. 
Cream, 1 cup. 

Cook the macaroni in plenty of boiling water until 
done. Turn off the water, and wash the macaroni by 
pouring two or three quarts of cold water over it. Re- 
turn the macaroni to the saucepan, and put with it the 
boiling milk ; then remove to a cooler part of the stove, and 
cook for thirty minutes. Before serving, add the beaten 
yolk and the boiling cream. Shake the pot, to mix the 
egg with the macaroni. Stir as little as possible. Salt 
to taste. 

EGG MACARONI 

Macaroni, 1^ cups. 
Eggs, hard-boiled, 3. 
Cream gravy, 2 cups. 
Bread crumbs. 

Break the macaroni into one-inch lengths, and boil 
in salted water till tender. Drain, and wash with cold 



ENTREES 49 

water. Put into a baking dish ; sprinkle over it the hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine; stir in the cream gravy, made 
from rich milk ; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake until 
nicely browned. 

MACARONI WITH EGG SAUCE 

Macaroni, 2 cups. 

Milk, 3 cups. 

Granola. 

Eggs, 4. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, and boil in salted 
water thirty to thirty-five minutes. Drain, and turn into 
a deep pan. Pour over this a custard made of the milk, 
beaten eggs, and salt. Sprinkle with granola, and bake in 
a moderate oven thirty minutes. 

MACARONI AND CORN 

Macaroni, cooked, 1 pint. 
Corn, 1 can. 
Cream, 1 cup. 
Salt. 

Grind the corn, and add to the cream and cooked 
macaroni; salt to taste, and pour into a granite pan, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake. 

MACARONI AND KORNLET 

Macaroni, raw, 1 cup. 
Cream or rich milk, % cup. 
Komlet, % cup. 
Salt to taste. 



50 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Break the macaroni into one-inch lengths, and boil in 
salted water till tender. Drain, and add the kornlet, cream, 
and salt. Mix thoroughly, spread in a baking pan, and 
bake a light brown. There should be enough kornlet and 
cream to cover the macaroni smoothly, and it should not 
be too* moist when done. 

MACARONI WITH CREAM TOMATO SAUCE 

Macaroni, raw, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Cream, l^ cup. 

Tomatoes, stewed and strained, 2 cups. 

Salt to taste. 

Break the macaroni into one-inch lengths, and boil in 
salted water till thoroughly done. Boil the tomatoes, and 
thicken with flour rubbed smooth in a little water. Add 
the cream, which should be hot; and salt to taste. Drain 
the macaroni, pour the sauce over, mix well, and serve. 
The cream may be omitted if preferred. 

MACARONI WITH GRANOLA 

Macaroni, raw, 2 cups. 
Granola, % cup. 
Salt to taste. 
Cream sauce, 2^^ cups. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Cook the macaroni till tender, drain,. put one half in a 
baking pan, sprinkle on this one half of the granola, and 
cover with one half of the gravy. Repeat with the re- 
mainder, making two layers. Bake until nicely browned. 



ENTEEES 51 

MACARONI CROQUETTES 

Macaroni, raw, 2 cups. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Egg yolks, 2. 
Milk, 1 cup. 
Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Salt to taste. 

Boil the macaroni in salted water until tender, drain, 
and chop fine. Heat the milk ; when boiling, add the butter 
and flour, that have been rubbed together until smooth; 
stir until thick, remove from the range, and stir in quickly 
the beaten yolks of the eggs. Mix this sauce with the 
macaroni, season with salt, turn out into flat pan, and let 
cool. When cold put with it sufficient bread crumbs to 
form into croquettes ; egg, crumb, and bake. 

MACARONI NEAPOLITAINE 

Brown gravy, 3 cups. 
Protose, diced, % pound. 
Macaroni, raw, 1 cup. 
Salt to taste. 

Cook the macaroni, drain, and add the rest of the in- 
gredients. Let simmer thirty minutes. Serve. 

MACARONI A L'lTALIENNE 

Macaroni, raw, 1 cup. 

Corn-meal, 2 tablespoons. 

Onion, grated, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt to taste. 

Milk or cream, 2 cups. 

Tomatoes, cooked and strained, 1 cup. 



52 VBGETABIAN COOK BOOK 

Break the macaroni into one-inch lengths ; boil in salted 
water till done ; drain. Boil the milk, and thicken with the 
corn-meal. When thoroughly cooked, add the tomatoes, 
onion, and salt. Pour this dressing over the macaroni, 
and serve hot. 

MACARONI DUMPLINGS 

Macaroni, cooked, 1 cup. 

Egg yolks, 3. 

Onion, grated. 

Sage. 

Salt. 
Press the macaroni through a fine colander; add the 
egg yolks, onion, sage, and salt; and drop from a spoon 
into boiling broth. Serve in the broth or with gravy. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE, VEGETARIAN STYLE 

Macaroni, cooked, 2^^ cups. 
Egg sauce, 1 cup. 
Sour cream, % cup. 
Bread crumbs. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, and boil in salted 
water until tender. Drain, and mix in a few bread crumbs. 
Add the sour cream, or thick sour milk, and about one cup 
of egg sauce. (See egg sauce recipe, page 49.) Pour in 
a granite baking pan, and sprinkle with bread crumbs. 
Season to taste, and bake. 

TOMATO MACARONI 

Macaroni, 2 cups. 
Tomatoes, strained, 2 cups. 
Flour, 2 teaspoons. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 



ENTREES 53 

Boil macaroni in sufficient water until tender; empty 
into a colander, and pour cold water over it; drain, and 
add to a tomato sauce made of the hot strained tomatoes, 
flour, and butter. Cook five minutes, salt, and serve. 

MACARONI BAKED WITH PROTOSB 

Macaroni, not cooked, iy2 cups. 

Oil, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, 1-3 cup. 

Salt. 

Protose, minced, 1 cup. 

Onion, medium size, minced, 1. 

Milk, 2 cups. 

Break the macaroni into one-inch lengths, and drop into 
boiling water, previously salted ; boil from one half to three 
quarters of an hour; then turn into a colander, and pour 
cold water over it. Drain, and turn into a baking pan. 

Sauce: Put the onion into a stew-pan with the oil, 
and braize till nicely browned ; then add the flour, and stir 
until brown. Next add the milk, then the protose. Season 
with salt. Pour this sauce over the macaroni, and sprinkle 
with bread crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven till brown. 

MACARONI WITH EGGPLANT 

Eggplant, mashed, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. 

Tomatoes, strained, 2 cups. 

Sage. 

Butter. 

Salt. 

Macaroni, cooked, 1^ cups. 

Bread crumbs. 



54 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Beat the eggs, and put with the tomatoes and egg- 
plant; season with butter, salt, and sage. Add the maca- 
roni, and enough bread crumbs to thicken properly. Bake 
in a granite pan until well set and nicely browned. 

MACARONI CUTLETS 

Macaroni, raw, 1 cup. 
Flour, 2 heaping tablespoons. 
Protose, minced, 1 cup. 
Salt to taste. 
Milk, 1 cup. 
Egg, 1. 
Bread crumbs. 

Boil the macaroni in salted water till done, drain, and 
chop fine. Boil the milk, and thicken with the flour; stir 
in the well-beaten egg; beat thoroughly. Add the maca- 
roni, protose, and salt, and make stiff with the bread 
crumbs. Form into cutlets of any shape desired. Put into 
an oiled pan, and bake till nicely browned. Serve with 
tomato or cream sauce. 

VERMICELLI 

Vermicelli is prepared from the same dough as are maca- 
roni and spaghetti. However, being thinner, it will cook 
quicker. For its use, see recipes for macaroni. 

VERMICELLI NUT PIE 

Nuttolene, % pound. 

Vermicelli, 2 cups. 

Salt. 

Rich milk, 4 cups. 

Eggs, 2. 



ENTREES 55 

Cook the nuttolene ten minutes in two cups of rich 
milk, then rub through a strainer. Flavor with celery 
salt. Cook the vermicelli fifteen minutes, strain, and pour 
cold water over it in the strainer. When it is well drained, 
line the bottom of a pie dish with one half of it. Pour 
over this the puree of nuttolene, and cover with the other 
half of the vermicelli. Make a custard of two eggs, two 
cups of milk, and a teaspoonful of salt. Turn this custard 
over the pie, making several incisions with a spoon, to 
permit the custard to run through. Sprinkle a few bread 
crumbs over the whole, and bake in a quick oven thirty 
minutes.' Serve with or without sauce. 

SPAGHETTI 

Spaghetti or vermicelli can in most cases be substituted 
for macaroni in the recipes given in this book. 

SPAGHETTI IN TOMATO SAUCE 

Spaghetti, broken, 2 cups. 
Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Tomatoes, 4 cups. 

Break the spaghetti into small pieces, and boil until 
well done.' Pour over this tomato sauce, made as follows: 
Mix flour and oil, add hot tomatoes, and salt to taste. 
Let boil. 

NOODLES 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Salt, i/i teaspoon. 
• Eggs, 2. 

Flour, to make a very stiff dough. 



56 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Whip the eggs until light, add the salt, and work in 
the flour, making a smooth, stiff dough. Roll out thin, in 
a long, narrow strip, sprinkle with flour to prevent stick- 
ing, and roll up crosswise into a long roll. Then with a 
sharp knife cut into very thin slices, and drop into boiling 
salted water. Cook about twenty minutes. Drain, pour 
the melted butter over, and serve hot. 

PROTOSE OR NUT CERO 

Protose or nut cero may be served cold, sliced, with 
jelly, sliced lemon, vegetarian chilli sauce, or mayonnaise; 
or it may be mashed, or pressed through a colander, and 
mixed with lemon juice, minced parsley, sage, celery salt, 
or grated onion, and formed in desired shape, and served 
with the above garnishes without being cooked. 

ROAST OP PROTOSE 

Protose, 1 pound. 

Tomatoes, strained, % cup. 

Onion, chopped, 1. 

Nut butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, browned, 2 tablespoons. 

Sage. 

Cut the protose lengthwise through the center, then 
cut each half in six pieces. Place in a deep baking pan, 
letting the first piece lean against the end or side of the 
pan, the second against the first, and so on. Sprinkle this 
with finely chopped onion and a little powdered sage, and 
pour over it a nut cream made of two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of nut butter emulsified in enough hot water to cover 



ENTBEES 57 

the protose. Add to the whole the browned flour, rubbed 
smooth in a little tomato. Salt to taste. A little celery- 
salt may be used if desired. Cover and bake till the gravy- 
is thick and brown. 



PROTOSE WITH BROWNED POTATOES 

Peel the potatoes, and cut into slices three fourths of an 
inch thick. Cut protose in strips of the same thickness. 
Place in a pan alternate layers of the potatoes and protose, 
and pour over them vegetable stock sufficient to cover. 
Bake in the oven till the potatoes are done and nicely 
browned. 

NUT FRICASSEE WITH BROWNED 
SWEET POTATOES 

Cut some nut food into half-inch cubes, and pour over 
it thick brown or white gravy sufficient to cover well. Let 
this simmer about one hour. Peel the potatoes, and steam 
or boil until tender but not overdone. Put them in a 
baking dish with a little butter or olive oil; salt, and bake 
in a quick oven until nicely browned. Serve with the 
fricassee. 

NUT CERO AU GRATIN 

Nut cero, 1 pound. 
Tomato sauce, 1 pint. 
Onion, grated, if desired. 
Bread crumbs. 
Salt. 



58 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Mince the nut cero, and place in a granite pan; pour 
over it the thick tomato sauce; add salt and onion if de- 
sired; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake, 

PEOTOSE PATTIES, PLAIN 

Protose, 1 pound. 

Salt. 

Cream, 3 tablespoons. 

Eggs, 2. 

Bread crumbs. 

Thoroughly crush the protose, and mix with the salt 
and one egg. Form into patties. Roll in egg and cream, 
then in bread crumbs. Bake in greased pan till lightly 
browned. If desired, the crumbs may be slightly mois- 
tened with cream. 

FRIJOLES WITH NUT CERO MBXICANO 

Red beans, y^ cup. 
Brown gravy, 1 cup. 
Nut cero, diced, 14 pound. 
Tomatoes, strained, 1 cup. 
Salt. 

Cook the beans in just enough water to prevent scorch- 
ing. When done, have ready a brown gravy, to which add 
the tomatoes and salt, and pour over the beans, together 
with the nut cero, and let simmer for an hour or more. 

PROTOSE STEAK 

Split a pound of protose in two lengthwise, and cut 
into as many slices as needed. Broil in a pan and serve 
with brown sauce. 



ENTREES 59 

PKOTOSE STEAK A LA TARTARE 

Protose, minced, 1 pound. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Mayonnaise, 3 tablespoons. 

Onion, 1. 

Eggs, 6. 

Olives and onion mixed to garnish. 

Put the butter in a saucepan, and set on the range. 
When hot, add the onion, and cook until brown. With this 
mix the minced protose, and a pinch of salt. Form into 
balls, making a depression in each ball, and drop an egg 
yolk into each depression. Bake until the eggs are done. 
Mince the onion and olives, add the mayonnaise, and use 
as a garnish. 

PROTOSE OR NUT CERO STEAK SMOTHERED 
IN ONIONS 

Protose or nut cero, % pound. 

Cooking oil, % cup. 

Salt. 

Onions, large, 6. 

Brown gravy, 2 cups. 

Cut the protose or nut cero into twelve slices. Lay 
half of them in an oiled baking pan ; add the sliced onions 
and then the remainder of the protose or nut cero, pour- 
ing the brown gravy over all. Salt to taste. Bake until 
the stock is reduced to a rich brown gravy. 



60 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

BRAIZED PROTOSE 

Protose, 12 slices. 

Vegetable stock, 3 cups. 

Sage. 

Onion, minced, medium size, 1. 

Butter. 

Butter a deep pan, and sprinkle with the minced onion 
and sage. On this lay the slices of protose, cut a little less 
than half an inch thick. Cover, and put into the oven 
to brown, turning the protose once, and watching care- 
fully that the onions do not burn. Remove from the oven, 
and pour over the whole the vegetable stock. Cover, and 
return to the oven. Bake until the stock is reduced to a 
thick brown gravy. 



RAGOUT OP PROTOSE 

Protose, cut in irregular pieces, 1 pound. 

Hot water, 4 cups. 

Flour, browned, 1 tablespoon. 

Celery salt. 

Tomatoes, strained, l^^ cups. 

White flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Put all together except the flour, and let simmer thirty 
or forty minutes, adding enough boiling water from time 
to time to keep the original quantity. Thicken with the 
flour, and serve. 



ENTREES 61 

PROTOSE FRICASSEE 

Tomatoes, strained, 1 cup. 
Parsley, minced, 1 teaspoon. 
Protose, 1 pound. 
Vegetable stock, 2 cups. 
Onion, 1. 
Egg yolks, 2. 
Flour. 

Add the minced parsley, onion, and strained tomatoes 
to the vegetable stock. Bring to a boil, and add the pro- 
tose cut into cubes of one half inch. Cook for a few 
minutes, and thicken with a few spoonfuls of flour 
rubbed smooth in a little water. Salt to taste. Just be- 
fore serving, add the beaten yolks. 

PROTOSE SMOTHERED WITH TOMATOES 

Protose, % pound. 

Butter. 

Salt. 

Tomatoes, 12. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Celery salt. 

Cut the protose into twelve slices, and cut each tomato 
in halves. Put one slice of tomato in a baking pan ; on this 
put a slice of protose, then a slice of tomato on top, and 
so on. Place a small piece of butter on each, also salt and 
celery salt. Cover, and bake until the tomato is nearly 
done; then remove the cover, and brown very lightly. 
Serve two tomatoes garnished with parsley to each person. 

5 — Cook Book 



62 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

NUT CEEO POT EOAST 

Nut eero, % pound. 
Tomatoes, strained, 1 cup. 
Brown gravy, 2 cups. 
Salt to taste. 

Mix the gravy with the strained tomatoes, salt to taste, 
and pour over the nut cero, which has been sliced and 
placed in a baking pan. Bake one hour. 

PEOTOSE AND EICE 

Eice, 2 cups. 
Protose, 1/^ pounds 
Onion, grated. 
Salt. 
Gravy. 

Break up the protose, and put with the well-cooked 
rice. Add the grated onion and salt to taste. Mix in 
thoroughly a pint of brown or cream gravy. Bake in a 
granite pan. 

NUT AND VEGETABLE STEW 

Nuttolene or nut loaf, 1 cup. 

Turnips, % cup. 

Celery, chopped, % cup. 

Salt. 

Carrots, li/^ cups. 

Potatoes, iy2 cups. 

Onion, small, 1. 

Butter. 



ENTREES 63 

Put all together except the nuttolene or nut loaf and 
potatoes, and hoil one hour. Then add potatoes and nut- 
tolene or nut loaf, and cook slowly until potatoes are done. 
Salt to taste. Thicken with a little flour worked smooth 
with butter. A little protose might also be added. 

STEWED PROTOSE, SPANISH 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Parsley, minced, 1 tablespoon. 
Tomatoes, strained, 4 cups. 
Onions, 4. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Protose, 1 pound. 

Put the butter into a saucepan, add the sliced onion 
and minced parsley, and cook ten minutes. Then stir in 
the flour, mix thoroughly, and add the tomatoes. Stir 
well to free from lumps. Cover, and cook twenty to thirty 
minutes. Slice the protose into small pieces, and simmer 
in sauce ten minutes. Salt and serve. 



FRICASSEE OF PROTOSE AND RICE 

Protose, 1/^ pound. 
Rice, cooked, 1 cup. 
Potatoes, small, 3. 
Brown gravy, 2 cups. 
Bread, % loaf. 
Cream or milk, 1 cup. 
Salt to taste. 

Slice the protose, potatoes, and bread thin, and place 
successive layers of these and the rice in a deep greased 
pan. Before using bread, dip each slice in the cream or 



64 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

milk. Cover with the brown gravy, which should be suffi- 
ciently salt to season the whole preparation. Bake under 
cover until the potatoes are done, and serve. 

PROTOSE AND POTATOES SMOTHERED 
IN ONIONS 

Place a layer of sliced raw potatoes in the bottom of a 
pan, and cover with protose, sliced onions, and stock. Bake 
until the potatoes are done. 

PROTOSE BAKED IN TOMATO 

Protose, 6 large slices. 

Tomatoes, cooked and strained, 2 cups. 

Corn-starch, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt to taste. 

Cut the protose in rather thick slices, and lay in a flat 
baking pan. Boil the tomatoes, thicken with the corn- 
starch, add the salt, and pour over the protose. Bake 
slowly in a moderate oven. Do not bake too dry. The 
protose should be nice and juicy with the tomatoes when 
done. The corn-starch may be omitted if desired. 

NUT CERO BAKED WITH EGGPLANT 

Eggplants, medium size, 2. 

Onion, chopped, large, 1. 

Salt. 

Nut eero, % pound. 

Brown gravy. 

Peel the eggplants, and cut into one-fourth-inch slices. 
Cut the nut cero into twelve slices. Put a layer of the 



ENTREES 65 

eggplant in an oiled pan, then a layer of nut cero, and 
sprinkle with part of the onion. Make another layer with 
the remainder, and pour the brown gravy over all. Salt 
to taste, cover, and bake. If desired, tomato may be used 
in place of the stock. 

PROTOSE HASH 

Protose, iy2 cups. 

Potatoes, cold, boiled or baked, 2 cups. 

Oil, 4 tablespoons. 

Onions, chopped, 2. 

Salt. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Brown the flour and onions in the oil; add two eups of 
hot water, and cook until done. Then add the remainder 
of the ingredients, and bake until brown. 

FRIZZLED PROTOSE IN EGGS 

Protose, 1 pound. 

Eggs, 8. 

Oil. 

Cut the protose into small, thin, narrow strips ; put into 
a stew-pan with a little oil, and when hot pour the well- 
beaten eggs over it, stirring constantly until the eggs are 
set. Serve hot on toast. 

SCALLOPED PROTOSE 

Protose, 1 pound. 
Bread crumbs, % cup. 
Potatoes, medium size, 4. 
Brown gravy, sufficient to cover. 



66 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Slice one half the potatoes in a baking dish; sprinkle 
one half the bread crumbs over them; on the crumbs 
put half the protose, cut into thin slices ; pour over some of 
the gravy, to moisten. Add the remainder of the in- 
gredients in the same manner, making two layers. There 
should be sufficient gravy to cover and cook the potatoes 
and protose. Bake until the potatoes are tender. 

EAW POTATO HASH 

Potatoes, 5. 
Onion, 1. 

Protose, y2 pound. 
Brown gravy, 1 quart. 
Salt. 

Grind the potato, onion, and protose through a vege- 
table mill, season with salt, cover with the brown gravy, 
and bake until the potatoes are tender. 

FAVORITE PROTOSE CUTLETS 

Protose, V^ pound. 

Eggs, 3. 

Rich milk, 2 cups. 

Bread crumbs, 1% cups. 

Onions, 1 tablespoon. 

Sage, y2 teaspoon. 

Salt. 

Oil a granite pan, and sprinkle with a few bread 
crumbs , beat the eggs, and add salt, onion, sage, and milk ; 
cut the protose into six slices, roll in bread crumbs and 
egg mixture, and place on the pan; then mix the remain- 



ENTREES 67 

ing bread crumbs with the milk, and pour over the pro- 
tose. Bake, and cut in desired shape. Serve with brown 
gravy. 

MOTHER'S PROTOSE CUTLETS 

Protose, y2 pound. 
Milk, Yz cup. 
Brown sauce. 
Egg, 1. 
Granose flakes. 

Cut the protose into six slices as for protose steak. Dip 
in beaten egg and milk, and roll in the granose flakes. Do 
this the second time, and bake in brown sauce about thirty 
minutes. 

NUTTOLENE 

For instructions for serving nuttolene without cooking, 
see directions under "Protose." 



NUTTOLENE BAKED WITH ONIONS 

Prepare onions as directed in the recipes for onions au 
gratin, putting a layer of diced nuttolene between two 
layers of onions. 

NUTTOLENE STEW 

Potatoes, 3. 

Tomatoes, strained, 2 cups. 

Nuttolene, % pound. 

Onion, grated. 

Salt. 



68 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Cut the potatoes and nuttolene in half -inch cubes, add 
to the boiling tomatoes, season with onion and salt, and 
cook until the potatoes are done. 

NUT CERO STEW 

Nut cero, 1 pound. 

Tomatoes, strained, 2 cups. 

Celery, minced, 14 cup. 

Salt. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Mince the nut cero, add to the other ingredients, and 
boil until the celery is cooked. Thicken to proper con- 
sistency with a little flour thickening. 

NUTTOLENE A LA CREME 

Nuttolene, % pound. 

Eggs, hard-boiled, 4. 

Salt. 

Milk, 1 pint. 

Eggs, 2. 

Onion, grated, % teaspoon. 

Parsley, chopped, % teaspoon. 

Pastry flour, i/^ cup. 

Break the nuttolene into irregular pieces with a fork. 
Salt and mix with the hard-boiled eggs, which have been 
chopped, or forced through a food cutter or vegetable 
press. Rub the flour smooth with water, and add to the 
hot milk. Pour this over two beaten eggs. Add salt, onion, 
and parsley. Put this sauce and the prepared nuttolene 
in layers into a pudding dish, finishing with the sauce. 



ENTREES 



69 



Sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, and bake in a moderate 
oven until bubbling all through and browned on top. 

NUTTOLBNB IN CREAM 

Place sliced nuttolene in a granite baking pan. Pour 
over it cream sauce enough to cover. Season with a little 
grated onion, and bake. 




VEGETABLES 




The term "vegetable," as here used, is applied to 
such plants, aside from grains, nuts, and fruits, as are 
cultivated and used for food. They should be judi- 
ciously combined with nuts, fruits, and grains. Green 
vegetables are rich in potash salts and other minerals 
necessary to the system, and in such a form as to be 
easily assimilated. 

Starchy vegetables, as potatoes, supply energy and 
heat, and give necessary bulk to the food. Peas, beans, 
and lentils contain a large amount of proteid, used in 
building and repairing tissue, and are therefore used in 
place of meat. For weak stomachs they are more easily 
digested in the form of purees and soups, with the outer 
indigestible covering removed. Vegetables should be 
fresh when used; for notwithstanding anything that may 
be said to the contrary, all vegetables, whether roots, 
leaves, or any other kind, begin to lose bulk and flavor as 
soon as removed from the ground. The kind that suffer 
least in this respect are beets, potatoes, carrots, etc. Those 
which are most easily affected are cabbage, lettuce, celery, 
asparagus, and others similar. 

Vegetables that have been touched with frost should 
be kept in a perfectly dark place for some days. The 
frost is thus drawn out slowly, and the vegetables are not 
so liable to rot. 
(70) 



VEGETABLES 71 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR VEGETABLES 

Fresh green vegetables should be cooked as soon as pos- 
sible after being gathered. Those containing sugar, as 
corn and peas, lose some of their sweetness by standing. 
Wash thoroughly in cold water, but unless wilted do not 
soak. It is better not to prepare fresh green vegetables 
until they are needed ; but if they must be prepared some 
time before cooking, cover with cold water. 

Most vegetables should be put into fresh, rapidly boil- 
ing water, and if cooked in uncovered vessels, they will 
retain a better color, as high heat destroys their color. 
In no instance permit them to steep in the warm water, 
as this toughens them, and in some instances destroys both 
color and flavor. 

Salt hardens water, and also sets the color in vegetables. 
For peas and beans do not add salt to the water until they 
are nearly done, as they do not boil tender so readily in 
hard water. 

Corn should not be boiled in salt water, as the salt 
hardens the outer covering of the skin, and makes it tough. 
Cook the vegetables rapidly, till perfectly tender, but no 
longer. If vegetables are cooked too long, flavor, color, 
and appearance are all impaired. To judge when done, 
watch carefully, and test by piercing with a fork. The 
time required to cook a vegetable varies with its age and 
freshness ; therefore the time-tables given for cooking serve 
only as approximate guides. 

Delicate vegetables, as green peas, shelled beans, celery, 
etc., should be cooked in as little water as possible, toward 
the last the water being allowed to boil away till there is 
just enough left to moisten. In this manner all the de- 



72 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

sirable soluble matter that may have been drawn out in 
cooking is saved. 

Strongly flavored vegetables, as cabbage, onions, etc., 
should be cooked in a generous quantity of water, and 
the water in which onions are cooked may be changed one 
or more times. 

The general rule for seasoning vegetables is as follows : 

To two cups small whole vegetables, or two cups of 
vegetables mashed or sliced, add a rounding teaspoonful 
of butter, and half a level teaspoonful of salt. To beans, 
peas, and squash, add one half teaspoonful of sugar. Add 
milk or the vegetable liquid when additional moisture is 
required. 

POTATOES 

Preeminent among vegetables stands the potato. 

The solid matter of potatoes consists largely of starch, 
with a small quantity of albumen and mineral salts. Po- 
tatoes also contain an acid juice, the greater portion of 
which lies near the skin. This bitter principle is set free 
by heat, passing into the water when the potatoes are 
boiled, and escaping with the steam when they are baked. 

New potatoes may be compared to unripe fruit, as the 
starch grains are not fully matured. Potatoes are at their 
best in the fall, and they keep well during the winter. In 
the spring, when germination commences, the starch 
changes to dextrin or gum, rendering the potato more waxy 
when cooked; and the sugar then formed makes them 
sweeter. When potatoes are frozen, the same change takes 
place. 

In the spring, when potatoes are shriveled and gummy, 
soaking improves them, as the water absorbed dissolves the 



VEGETABLES 73 

gum, and makes them less sticky. At other times, long 
soaking is undesirable. 

Soak about half an hour in the fall, one to three hours 
in winter and spring. Never serve potatoes, whether 
boiled or baked, in a closely covered dish, as they thus 
become sodden and clammy; but cover with a folded nap- 
kin, and allow the moisture to escape. They require about 
forty-five minutes to one hour to bake, if of a good size, 
and should be served promptly when done. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Potatoes are either baked in their jackets or peeled; 
in either ease they should not be exposed to a fierce heat, 
as thereby a great deal of the vegetable is scorched and 
rendered uneatable. They should be frequently turned 
while baking, and kept from touching one another in the 
oven or dish. When pared, they should be baked in a dish, 
and oil of some kind added, to prevent their being burned. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Pare and boil or steam six or eight large potatoes. If 
boiled, drain when tender, and let set in the kettle for a 
few minutes, keeping them covered, shaking the kettle 
occasionally to prevent scorching. Mash with a wire po- 
tato masher, or if convenient, press through a colander; 
add salt, a lump of butter, and sufficient hot milk to 
moisten thoroughly. Whip with the batter whip, or wooden 
spoon, until light and fluffy. Heap up on a plate, press a 
lump of butter into the top, and send to the table hot. 



74 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

POTATO PUFFS 

Potatoes, prepared as for mashed potatoes, 2 cups. 

Cream or milk, % cup. 

Butter, melted, 2 tablespoons. 

Eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 2. 

Salt. 

Mix and beat up thoroughly, folding in the beaten whites 
last. Make into balls, put into greased pans, brush with 
beaten egg, and bake a light brown. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES NO. 1 

Potatoes, medium size, 6. 
Milk sufficient to cover, mixed 

with tablespoon of flour. 
Crumbs. 
Butter. 
Salt. 

Cut the potatoes into even slices, put in a baking pan, 
and sprinkle with a little salt and a few small pieces of 
butter. Pour the milk and flour mixture over, and add a 
layer of crumbs. Cover, and bake till the potatoes are 
tender. Remove the cover, and brown lightly. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES NO. 2 

Potatoes, cold, boiled, sliced. 
Thin cream sauce. 

Place in alternate layers in a pan, and sprinkle the top 
with ground bread crumbs. Bake until brown. 



VEGETABLES 75 

NEW POTATOES AND CREAM 

New potatoes. 

Cream. 

Salt. 

Butter. 

Parsley. 

Scrape the potatoes, and drop into boiling water, and 
boil briskly till done, but no more. Press against the 
side of the kettle with a fork; if done, they will yield to 
gentle pressure. In a saucepan have ready some butter 
and cream, hot but not boiling, a little green parsley, and 
salt. Drain the potatoes, add the mixture, put over hot 
water a ininute or two, and serve. 

POTATOES A LA CREME 

Potatoes, cold, boiled, 2 cups. 

Parsley, finely chopped. 

Flour. 

Milk. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Heat the milk, and add flour thickening and butter. 
Stir until smooth and thick. Salt, and add the potatoes, 
sliced, and a very little finely chopped parsley. Shake over 
the fire until the potatoes are heated through. Pour into a 
deep dish, and serve. 

POTATOES A LA DELMONICO 

Cut the potatoes with a vegetable cutter into small balls 
about the size of marbles. Put them into stew-pan with 



76 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

plenty of butter and a good sprinkling of salt. Keep the 
stew-pan covered, and shake occasionally, until they are 
quite done, which will be in about an hour. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Place in a greased granite pan a half-inch layer of 
mashed potatoes, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and cover 
with a layer of cottage cheese; sprinkle again with bread 
crumbs, cover with a liberal portion of thick cream, and 
bake until well browned. 

A good method of using up cold mashed potatoes, is to 
place them in a pan as directed above, cover with bread 
crumbs and cream, and bake until well set. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Bake potatoes until done, cut in two with a sharp knife, 
remove the white portion with a spoon, add salt and cream, 
and mash well; refill, place the halves together, and wrap 
with tissue paper and twist the ends so as to hold the 
potato together tightly. The ends of the paper may be 
first cut in such a manner as to leave a fringe. Another 
wayof serving them is to cut in two lengthwise, and pro- 
ceed as directed above, with this exception, that instead 
of placing the halves together, each half is meringued with 
the beaten white of egg, and set in the oven for a few 
minutes before it is served. 

POTATO PATTIES 

Potato patties may be made from cold mashed potatoes, 
but such potatoes should be ground through a mill or 



VEGETABLES 77 

forced through a colander before they are formed into 
shape. These may be rolled in fine bread crumbs, or egg 
and then bread crumbs, or may be browned in the oven 
without either. 

If made from fresh cooked potatoes (preferably 
steamed), mash well, adding salt and only a small por- 
tion of cream. When cool, add beaten eggs, form into 
shape, and proceed as suggested above. 

BROWNED POTATOES WITH ROAST 

Prepare filling like Hamburger loaf or mock turkey 
dressing, and place in a granite pan; put the peeled pota- 
toes on both sides of this, and add a thin brown gravy. 
Bake in a moderate oven, basting the potatoes occasionally 
with the gravy. Some cooks partially cook their potatoes 
before proceeding as suggested above. 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES 

Mince cold boiled or baked potatoes, place in baking 
pan, and cover with rich milk or cream to which has been 
added enough salt to season the potatoes; allow to bake 
slowly until well browned. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Prepare as for hashed browned, with the addition of 
minced parsley and onion. 

ROASTED POTATOES 

Peel medium-sized potatoes, place in greased baking 
pan, season with butter and salt, dredge with flour, cover 

6 — Cook Book 



78 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

with hot water, and bake until the water has nearly all 
evaporated and the potatoes are done. 

TOMATO HOLLANDAISB POTATOES 

Potatoes, medium size, 6. 

Tomatoes, strained, 1 cup. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Butter. 

Salt. 

Dice the potatoes, and place in a granite pan; add 
salt and butter, and cover with the tomato and water; 
bake until tender. 

POTATOES STEWED WITH CBLEET 

Potatoes, diced, raw, 2 parts. 
Celery, minced, 1 part. 
Cream. 
Salt. 

Stew the celery and potatoes until tender, season with 
salt and cream, thicken slightly, and serve. 

NEW POTATOES AND PEAS 

Boil or steam the new potatoes, stew the. peas, drain 
off the juice, and add new potatoes and peas to a cream 
sauce; season and serve. 

SWEET POTATOES 

Sweet potatoes are more frequently served baked, 
boiled, or mashed. They may also be steamed, turned into 



VEGETABLES 79 

a baking pan, sprinkled with oil or melted butter, and 
browned. 

BAKED BEANS 

Small white beans, 2 cups. 
Protose, if desired. 
Molasses, 1 teaspoon. 
Salt. 

Clean the beans, soak in cold water one hour, drain, add 
fresh water, season with salt and molasses, put into a cov- 
ered jar with plenty of water; bake overnight in a slow 
oven. When done, the beans should be whole, dry, and 
mealy, and of a rich brown color. This can only be ob- 
tained by baking the beans several hours in a slow oven. 
If desired, a little chopped protose may be added. 

PUREE OP BEANS 
Follow the directions given for puree of peas. 

STEWED BEANS 

Wash the required quantity of navy, lima, kidney, or 
other beans, and put to cook in plenty of boiling water; 
boil till they are swollen, then put them where they will 
stew till cooked; season just before they finish cooking. 

BAKED BEANS WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare the beans as for plain baked beans ; put into 
the jars to bake; cover with a mixture of strained stewed 
tomatoes and water in equal proportions; a little butter 
or oil may be added. 



80 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

SUCCOTASH 

Fresh shelled lima beans, 2 cups. 

Sweet corn, 2 ears. 

Cream, % cup. 

Butter, size of an egg. 

Salt. 

Put the beans in* a pot with cold water, rather more 
than will cover them; cook from thirty to forty-five min- 
utes. Scrape the kernels from two ears of young sweet 
corn, add to beans, and boil for fifteen minutes; then sea- 
son with salt, butter, and cream. Serve hot. 

PLAIN BOILED STEING-BEANS 

Break off the ends of beans, and string; wash thor- 
oughly ; if large, cut them in two ; drop into boiling water, 
and boil till tender. Salt, and season with oil or butter; 
if preferred, drain off the juice, salt to taste, and add 
some hot, rich milk. 

NEW LIMA BEANS 

Shell, wash, cook in hot water sufficient to cover, sea- 
son with cream and salt. 

GREEN PEAS 

Shell the peas, and cover with cold water ; skim off un- 
developed peas which rise to the top of the water, and 
drain; barely cover with boiling water, cook till tender, 
then add salt. When done, very little water should remain. 
Season to taste, with butter, and add more salt if needed. 
A little sugar is sometimes an improvement. 



VEGETABLES 81 

When the peas are older, half a cup of milk or cream, 
with sufficient flour to thicken, is considered an improve- 
ment. A teaspoonful of finely minced parsley cooked with 
peas imparts to them a very delicious flavor. 

SPLIT PEAS 

Being free from the outside hull, split peas cook very 
quickly. Wash, and set to cook in hot water; boil care- 
fully, and watch closely that they do not stick ; season and 
serve. Split peas are usually used in soups and purees. 

PUREE OP PEAS 

Peas, fresh, 2 cups (or dry, 1 cup). 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Cream or milk, 11/2 cups. 
Flour, 1 level tablespoon. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Put the peas to cook in cold water; boil until tender, 
then simmer slowly, cooking as dry as possible without 
scorching. When soft and dry, rub through a colander to 
remove the hulls. Put the butter in a saucepan; when 
melted, stir in the flour, being careful not to scorch; pour 
in the milk gradually, stirring all the time ; and when thor- 
oughly cooked, add the salt and the pulp of the peas. Turn 
all into a double boiler, heat thoroughly, and serve. 

LENTILS, ORIENTAL STYLE 

Lentils, 1 cup. 
Oil, 2 tablespoons. 
Salt, 1 level teaspoon. 
Rice, boiled, 1 cup. 
Onion, finely shredded, 1. 



82 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Wash the lentils well, and cook in boiling water till 
tender ; drain. Put the oil into a saucepan, add the onion, 
and cook till the onion is soft, not brown. Add the lentils 
and boiled rice, mix, stir over the fire till hot, salt, and 
serve hot. 

LENTILS WITH ONIONS 

Lentils, 1 cup. 
Onions, 2. 
Butter. 

Wash the lentils, put to cook in a saucepan with the 
onions in plenty of cold water, and boil till tender. Sea- 
son with butter and salt, and serve. 



STEWED GREEN CORN 

Green corn, 3 cups. 

Butter. 

Salt. 

Milk, more or less, 1 cup. 

Sugar. 

Husk and clean as for boiling corn. With a sharp 
knife cut off the top of the grain, being careful not to 
cut too close to the cob; and with the back of the knife 
press out the remaining pulp. When cut in this way, the 
corn is much more juicy than when the grains are cut close 
to the cob. Place the milk in a granite saucepan, and when 
boiling, add the butter and corn; cook from ten to fifteen 
minutes, or until it loses its raw taste. Stir frequently, 
and season to taste, with salt and sugar. 



VEGETABLES 83 

BOILED GREEN CORN 

Strip off the husk, remove the silk, put into fresh boil- 
ing water, and cook ten to twenty minutes. Cook only till 
done; for if boiled too long, the corn hardens, and its 
flavor is impaired. If the corn is not very sweet, add one 
fourth cup of sugar to the water in which it is boiled. 
The addition of a small amount of milk or lemon juice to 
the water in which the corn is boiled improves the color. 

NOVELTY BAKED CORN 

Strip the husks of the corn down so that all the silks 
can be removed. Cut out any imperfections. "Wipe with 
a cloth, replace the husks, and wrap the ear with twine; 
place in a medium oven, and bake until tender. It may 
be found best to place a pan of water in the oven to add 
moisture. 

KORNLET 

Press com that has been cut from the cob, or canned 
corn, through a fine colander, or grind through a vegetable 
mill with a fine die; season and serve. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Wash, peel, and quarter the tomatoes; allow to stand 
in a granite stew-pan for a few minutes for enough juice 
to run out in which to cook them; stew slowly for a few 
minutes. Season and serve. 



84 VEaETARIAN COOK BOOK 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Add broken bread or crackers to stewed tomatoes; cook 
in double boiler, or in granite pan in oven. Butter, sugar, 
or salt may be added to taste. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Select tomatoes of uniform size, wash, and remove a 
slice from one end; place in granite baking pan; on each 
tomato place a small piece of butter and a little grated 
onion; sprinkle with salt, and bake under cover. 

STEWED TOMATOES AND COEN 

Cut corn from the cob and stew with fresh tomatoes, or 
add canned corn to stewed tomatoes, and heat, season, and 
serve. 

SCRAMBLED TOMATOES 

Tomatoes, 6. 
Eggs, 3. 
Butter. 
Salt. 

Remove the skins from six tomatoes, and cut them up 
in a saucepan. Add a little butter and salt. When suf- 
ficiently boiled, beat up eggs; and just before you serve, 
turn them into the saucepan with the tomatoes, and stir, 
allowing them time to get thoroughly done. 

CELERY 

Cut off all the roots and remove all the decayed and 
outside leaves. Wash thoroughly, being careful to remove 



VEGETABLES 85 

all specks and blemishes. If the stalks are large, divide 
them lengthwise into two or three pieces. Place base down- 
ward in a celery glass, which should be nearly filled with 
cold water. 

STEWED CELERY 

Celery, tender stalks, 6. 
White sauce, 2 cups. 

Cut the celery into half-inch lengths, and cook in boil- 
ing salted water. _ When tender, drain, and pour over this 
the sauce. Heat well, and serve. The liquid drained from 
the celery may be thickened, seasoned with a little butter, 
and used instead of the white sauce if preferred. 

PARSNIPS IN BROWN GRAVY 
Peel young parsnips, and steam until done; place in 
oiled granite pan, cover with thin brown gravy, place in 
medium hot oven, and bake under cover until done. Sliced 
protose or nuttolene may be added and baked with the 
parsnips. 

BAKED PARSNIPS 

Scrape and cut in half lengthwise, and boil till tender ; 
put in a shallow baking pan, put a few pieces of chopped 
butter or a little cooking oil on top, sprinkle lightly with 
sugar, pour over sufficient cream to about half cover, 
salt to taste, and bake a rich brown. 

PARSNIPS IN EGG SAUCE 

Clean and cut into small dice, and boil in a little salted 
water until tender; drain, and pour over sufficient egg 
sauce to cover. 



86 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

STEWED PARSNIPS 

After washing the parsnips, slice them about half an 
inch thick; put them in a saucepan containing barely 
enough boiling water to cook them; add a tablespoonful 
of butter, season with salt, then cover closely, and stew 
them until the water has cooked away, and until they are 
soft, stirring often to prevent burning. When they are 
done, they will be of a light straw-color, and deliciously 
sweet, retaining all the nutriment of the vegetable. 

CARROTS A LA CREME 

Clean carrots, cut in slices about half an inch thick, 
and parboil in salted water. Drain, pour over them some 
hot rich milk, and let simmer till done. Add a little butter ; 
season with salt. 

CARROTS WITH EGG SAUCE 

Clean carrots, cut in slices about half an inch thick, 
and boil until tender ; drain, add egg sauce, and serve. 

YOUNG TURNIPS 

Cut into half -inch dice, and boil till tender ; drain, and 
add a small lump of butter and a little salt. 

MASHED TURNIPS 

Turnips may be cooked and mashed the same as pota- 
toes, keeping them as dry as possible. The addition of a 
little sugar is by some considered an improvement. 



VEGETABLES 87 

HOLLAND BOILED TURNIPS 

Turnips, cut in %-ineh dice, 1 quart. 
Egg, 1. 

Butter, 1/^ cup. 
Lemon, large, 1. 

Boil the turnips till tender in just enough salted water 
to prevent burning; drain, and set in a covered dish on 
the side of the range, where they will keep hot but not 
burn. Melt the butter, add the beaten yolk of the egg, 
the juice of the lemon, and a little salt. Serve a spoon- 
ful of this sauce over each order of turnip. 

ASPARAGUS NO. 1 

Asparagus, like potatoes, contains a bitter alkaloid, 
which is drawn into the water in cooking, and often im- 
parts to it a very unpleasant flavor. This may be reme- 
died by parboiling the asparagus for four or five minutes. 
Then drain, add more hot water, and finish cooking. 

ASPARAGUS NO. 2 

Scrape the stalk ends of the asparagus, or break off 
the tough lower stalks as far as they will snap. "Wash well, 
tie in bundles, and put into enough rapidly boiling salted 
water to cover. Allow a teaspoonful of salt to each quart 
of water. Cook uncovered from twenty to thirty minutes, 
or till perfectly tender. Drain, remove the string, spread 
with salt and butter, and serve immediately on toast. The 
asparagus may be neatly arranged on hot toast and cov- 
ered with white cream sauce, if preferred. 



88 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

ASPARAGUS POMPADOUR 
Wash the asparagus carefully, place in a saucepan of 
boiling salted water, and boil till done. Take out, and 
cut into lengths of about two inches, and place on a cloth 
near the fire to dry. 

STEWED ASPARAGUS 
Break the tender parts of the asparagus into one-inch 
lengths, and put into enough boiling water to cover. Boil 
till tender, add sufficient rich milk or cream to make a 
gravy, thicken with flour, season with salt, let come to a 
boil, and serve. 

EGGPLANT BAKED IN SHELL 
Cook whole in boiling water, divide, scrape out the 
inside, add bread crumbs and cream, season with salt, and, 
if desired, the yolk of an egg; refill the shell, and bake 
with cut side up. Serve in shell. 

SCALLOPED EGGPLANT NO. 1 
Pare, divide or quarter, cook in boiling water until 
tender, drain in colander, salt, and beat* up with a fork; 
add cream, bread crumbs, and an egg yolk; bake in a 
granite pan. 

SCALLOPED EGGPLANT NO. 2 

Eggplant, mashed, 2 cups. 
Tomatoes, strained, 1 cup. 
Sage. 
Butter. 
Salt. 

Bread crumbs. 
Mix all together, and bake. 



VEGETABLES 89 

BAKED EGGPLANT 

Slice the eggplant thick, immerse in salted milk, and 
then roll in buttered bread crumbs. Place on oiled pans, 
sprinkle with oil, and bake. 

STEWED SALSIFY, OR VEGETABLE OYSTERS 

Salsify, cut in i4:-iiich slices, 1 quart. 
Milk, 2 cups. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Salt to taste. 

"Wash and scrape the salsify, slice, and put into ,cold 
water to prevent discoloration. Cook in sufftcient boiling 
water to cover. When tender, drain, add the milk and 
butter, let simmer a few minutes, and serve. 

SCALLOPED VEGETABLE OYSTERS 

Vegetable oysters, sliced, 3 cups. 
Rich cream sauce. 
Sifted bread crumbs. 
Salt. 

Wash, scrape, cut in thin slices, and put into plenty 
of cold water till ready to use, to prevent discoloration. 
When ready to cook, boil in enough water to prevent 
scorching. Salt when they begin to get tender. Boil a 
few minutes longer, but do not let them get too salt. 
Drain, or remove with a skimmer, putting a layer in a 
baking pan, then a little rich cream sauce, then another 
layer of each. Sprinkle the top with sifted bread crumbs, 
and bake a light brown. 



90 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

STEWED CABBAGE 

Cabbage, 1 head. 
Onion, 1. 

Salt. 

Slice the onion very fine, and place in a stew-pan ; chop 
the cabbage fine, and add to the onion; cover with hot 
water, let stew until tender, salt, and cook until seasoned. 

CABBAGE AND CEEAM 

Cabbage, 1 head. 
Cream, iy2 cups. 
Butter, 2 tablespoons. 
Flour, 1 teaspoon. 
Salt. 

Parboil the cabbage, drain, cool, and chop fine; place 
it in a stew-pan with butter and a little salt ; add the flour, 
stirring well, and then pour in the cream. Stir till the cab- 
bage and cream are thoroughly mixed. Cook about thirty 
or forty minutes, and serve hot. 

CABBAGE STEWED WITH TOMATO 

Slice and wash a good sound cabbage, and put into a 
stew-pan with enough chopped tomato to give it a decidedly 
tart taste. Season with salt. Add sufficient water to cook, 
and stew slowly till tender. Strained tomatoes may be 
used if desired. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

Wash and chop the cabbage in rather fine pieces. Put 
a layer of the cabbage into a baking pan, sprinkle with a 



VEGETABLES 91 

little salt, and cover this with finely broken fresh bread 
crumbs. Repeat, and pour over sufficient milk or cream to 
thoroughly moisten and cover the crumbs. Cover, and 
bake in a moderate oven till the cabbage is well cooked. 
More milk may be added if necessary. 

HOLLAND CREAM CABBAGE 

Cabbage. 

Eggs, 2. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Butter. 

Cut the cabbage fine, sprinkle with salt, and let stand 
a few minutes before using. Beat the eggs well; add 
lemon juice, water, and melted butter. Mix this with the 
cabbage, and cook till tender, in a vessel that does not 
easily burn. 

BAKED CABBAGE NO. 1 

"Wash and chop rather fine the required quantity of 
cabbage. Put into a stew-pan with boiling water; add a 
little salt, and boil twenty minutes. Drain, put in a baking 
pan, and cover with cream or milk to which has been added 
the beaten yolk of one egg to each cup of cream. Bake 
until the custard is nicely set. 

BAKED CABBAGE NO. 2 

Butter. 

Cabbage, cold, boiled. 

Crumbs, browned. 

Salt. 

Egg, well beaten, 1. 

Brown sauce. 



92 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Rub sufficient cold boiled cabbage through a sieve or 
colander. Mix with it a piece of butter, salt, and the well- 
beaten egg. Stir thoroughly. Butter a pudding dish of 
suitable size, line with browned crumbs, press in the cab- 
bage, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out on a hot 
dish, pour brown sauce around the base, and serve. 

HOT SLAW 

Clean a nice young head of cabbage, quarter, cut out 
the heart, and shred fine. Put in cold, salted water for 
half an hour; drain, and boil till tender; drain partly, 
leaving enough juice to make the cabbage moist ; add lemon 
juice and a little butter or oil, season with salt, and serve 
hot. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS, PLAIN 

Select nice, fresh sprouts, cut off the stem end and out- 
side leaves, and wash in cold water. Cook in salted water 
till tender. Pour off the water ; serve with butter or cream 
sauce. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS BAKED WITH CRUMBS 

Prepare as for plain boiled; when done, drain, and 
press dry; arrange in a baking dish, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, and pour over it a thin cream or egg sauce. Bake 
in the oven till nicely browned. 

STEWED CAULIFLOWER 

Prepare as for plain boiled cauliflower; cook or steam 
till tender ; drain, put in a stew-pan, and pour over it some 



VEGETABLES 93 

rich milk or cream; stew together for a few minutes, and 
serve. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER, PLAIN 

Remove the outside leaves, cut the stalk one inch from 
the head, split, and soak in cold salted water thirty minutes 
or more; remove, wash, and cook slowly in boiling water 
until tender. The addition of milk to the water will help 
to keep the cauliflower white. When ready to serve, re- 
move from the water, and serve with cream or butter sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Prepare as for stewed cauliflower ; and when done, serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Sauce : Strain a pint of stewed tomatoes, let come to a 
boil, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth in a little water ; add a little oil or hot cream ; salt 
to taste. Pour this over the cauliflower, and serve. 

BROWNED CAULIFLOWER 

Prepare as for boiled cauliflower, drain, place in a bake 
pan, and sprinkle with flne bread crumbs. Over this pour 
thin cream sauce, and brown in the oven. 

ONIONS 

Contrary to the opinion of many, the onion is not ob- 
jectionable as an article of food. Judiciously used, it fills 
as important a place in cooking as does salt or any other 
seasoning. 

7 — Gook Book 



94 VEGETABIAN COOK BOOK 

BOILED ONIONS 

Onions. 
Cream. 
Flour. 

Select small onions, peel, wash, parboil, and cook until 
done. Salt, add cream, and thicken with flour. If there 
is too much liquid on the onions, drain off before adding 
cream. This liquid is desirable for flavoring soup. 

BAKED ONIONS NO. 1 

Peel and wash onions of medium size. In each make 
three diametrical incisions about half way down in the 
blow end, leaving enough of the stem end on to hold the 
onion intact while cooking. Fill a baking pan with these, 
sprinkle with salt, place on each a small piece of butter, 
add hot water, cover with another pan, and bake until 
tender. 

BAKED ONIONS NO. 2 

Onions, large, 6. 

Salt. 

Crumbs. 

Milk. 

Butter. 

Put onions into a saucepan of water, or water and 
milk mixed in equal proportions; add salt, and boil till 
tender. When done so that they can be easily mashed, 
work them up with a little butter into a paste. Cover 
with bread crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven. 



VEGETABLES 95 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Peel the desired number of onions, being careful not 
to cut off the root end. Take out the inside of the onion, 
and fill the hole with a mixture of bread crumbs, beaten 
egg, and a little milk. Season with salt and sage. Bake in 
oven until brown. 

ONIONS AU GRATIN 

Peel, wash, and slice the desired amount of onions. 
Parboil in salted water, drain, and place a layer in a 
granite pan. On these sprinkle a little salt and a few 
bread crumbs. Cover this with good cream sauce, and re- 
peat with other layers of onions, bread crumbs, and salt, 
until the onions are all used. Finish with a layer of cream 
gravy and bread crumbs. 

SUMMER SQUASH 

"Wash and cut in pieces. Cook in the steamer, that it 
may be as dry as possible. When done, let it stand and 
drain a few minutes, shaking it occasionally. Mash, and 
season with salt, butter, and a little cream. 

CREAM SUMMER SQUASH 

Cut the squash in cubes, boil or steam, strain, and add 
to cream sauce. 

MASHED WINTER SQUASH (HUBBARD) 

Cut the squash, pare, remove seeds, wash, and put into 
the steamer. Cook until soft, remove, and mash or press 



96 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

through a colander. Season with salt, butter, sugar, and 
a little sweet cream. Beat well, and serve. 

BAKED WINTER SQUASH (HUBBARD) 

Cut into pieces of desired size, remove seeds, sprinkle 
with a little sugar and salt, and bake until done. Serve 
in the shell; or it may be pared before baking. 

BEETS 

Select young red beets. Cut off the tops half an inch 
from the root. If cut too close, the roots will bleed, and 
the color will be impaired. "Wash and clean carefully with 
a brush, to remove all particles of dirt. They may be boiled 
or steamed. Young beets will cook in an hour; old beets 
require three or four hours, according to age and size. 
When done, put in cold water, rub off the skins, and they 
are ready for use. 

BEET GREENS 

Wash young, tender beet tops, cleaning thoroughly; 
drain, and boil in salted water till tender ; drain, chop fine, 
season with butter or oil, and serve with lemon juice or 
cream. 

BEET STALKS WITH BUTTER SAUCE 

Take some beet stalks, cut off the leaves, wash thor- 
oughly, tie m bunches, and let soak in cold water two or 
three hours to make them fresh and crisp. Boil in salted 
water until tender; cut the band; serve as asparagus on a 
platter with butter sauce. 



"VEGETABLES 97 

YOUNG BEETS 

Cream or milk, 1 cup. 
Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Beets. 

Cook the beets in salted water till tender, remove skins, 
and cut into dice. Serve with cream sauce, made by thick- 
ening the milk or cream with the flour rubbed in the but- 
ter. Heat well, and serve at once. 

BEET AND POTATO HASH 

Beets, cold, boiled, 2 cups. 

Potatoes, cold, boiled, 2 cups. 

Salt. 

Butter. 

Cream. 

Chop beets and potatoes fine, and season with salt and 
butter. Pour over a little cream. Put on the stove in a 
covered saucepan, and stir occasionally. When thoroughly 
heated through, serve. 

BEETS AND POTATOES 

Boil young beets and new potatoes separately until- 
tender; peel, slice, and put in alternate layers in a baking 
dish; season with salt, and moisten with rich milk. Bake 
until nicely browned. 

BAKED BEETS 

Select young, smooth, red beets of uniform size; clean 
thoroughly; bake in a slow oven from two to six hours; 



98 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

when done, remove the skins, and dress with lemon juice 
or cream sauce. 

STEWED YOUNG BEETS 

Beets, 2 pounds. 

Oil, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, 2 teaspoons. 

Lemon juice, 6 tablespoons. 

"Water, 2 cups. 

Salt. 

Red coloring, 1 teaspoon. 

Steam or boil the beets until tender. Peel, cut in eighths 
or quarters, and serve in a sauce made by heating the water, 
lemon juice, oil, and salt, and thickening the same with 
the flour braided with a little water. Add the coloring, 
pour over the beets, and serve. 

SPINACH 

Trim the spinach, and wash in three or four waters to 
remove the grit. Cook in boiling water about twenty min- 
utes, removing the scum. Do not cover the vessel while 
cooking. "When tender, turn into a colander, drain, and 
press well. Chop fine, put into a saucepan with butter 
and salt, set on the fire, and cook till quite dry, stirring 
it all the time. Turn into a vegetable dish, shape, and 
garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

STEWED GARBANZOS 

Garbanzos belong to the legume family, with peas, beans, 
etc. They have a meaty flavor distinct to themselves, and 
make a desirable change in one's dietary. They are no 



VEGETABLES 99 

more expensive than lentils, and can be obtained by any 
purveyor. They do not cook soft when done, like other 
legumes, but should mash when pressed between the thumb 
and finger. Soak overnight, wash well, and start to cook 
in cold water, cooking slowly until tender, which will re- 
quire four or five hours. 

ARTICHOKES 

There are two varieties, one known as the globe, flower, 
or burr, and the other as the Jerusalem artichoke. To cook 
the former, wash well in several waters, cut off the tips, 
round off the bottom, and remove the outer leaves. Boil 
in salted water. Serve with mayonnaise. 




SAUCES 



I- 
i" 



For Vegetables, Entrees, etc. 



OLIVE SAUCE 

Take one fourth cup of ripe olives, and after extracting 
the stones, chop fine. Stew for two or three hours in 
water enough to cover well. Brown together a little olive 
oil and flour, the same as for gravy. Strain through a 
colander, and add the stewed olives. Season with salt. 

BROWN REGENCY SAUCE 

(For vegetables and roasts) 

Nut butter, % cup. 

Sage, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, browned, 3 heaping tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Onion, minced, 2 tablespoons. 

Water, ly^ quarts. 

Mix all together, put in an enameled baking pan, cover, 
and bake till of the desired consistency. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Egg yolks, 2. 

Nutmeg. 
(100) 



SAUCES 101 

Rub the butter, flour, nutmeg, and salt together until 
smooth, and add slowly one and one half cups hot water, 
stirring constantly. Boil, remove from the fire, and add 
the lemon juice, and the yolks of the eggs, one at a time. 
Beat slowly and thoroughly together. Strain and serve. 



SAUCE IMPERIAL 

Tomatoes, stewed, 1 quart. 

Bay leaves, 2. 

Onion, medium, 1. 

Lemon, i^- 

Parsley, chopped, 1 tablespoon. 

Cooking oil, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Put the oil, parsley, bay leaves, and onion into a stew- 
pan, set on the range, and cook until the onion is a golden 
brown, being careful not to burn; then add the flour, let 
cook a few minutes, add the lemon and tomato, and let 
stew half an hour. Strain, salt, and serve. The chopped 
parsley may be added just before serving, if desired. 



MINT SAUCE 

Mint, 1/4 cup. 
Sugar, 1-3 cup. 
Lemon juice, I/2 cup. 

Mix all together, and set on the side of the range where 
the sugar will melt and the sauce be hot ; but it must not 
get too hot. Serve with protose or meat substitutes. 



102 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

WHITE CREAM SAUCE FOR VEGETABLES 

Butter, 2 rounding tablespoons. 
Flour, 1 heaped tablespoon. 
Milk, 2 cups. 
Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and cook 
until well blended but not browned; pour in the milk 
gradually, and stir until boiling well; then salt. 

Half milk and half broth of the vegetables may be used 
if desired, unless the broth has a bitter or otherwise ob- 
jectionable taste, as is sometimes the case with asparagus. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Cream, l^ cup. 

Flour, 1 heaped tablespoon. 

Milk, 21/2 cups. 

Mix the flour to a smooth cream in a little milk, heat the 
cream and remainder of the milk, and thicken with the 
flour. Salt to taste. If a richer sauce is desired, the beaten 
yolks of one or two eggs may be added. 

EGG SAUCE 

Cream sauce, 1 pint. 
Egg yolks, 2. 

Beat the yolks, and add to the cream sauce, mixing 
thoroughly. 

IDEAL CHILLI SAUCE 

Tomatoes, stewed, 1 quart. 
Celery salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 
Onion, large, sliced, 1. 
Salt, iy2 teaspoons. 



SAUCES 103 

Mix all together, and let simmer two or three hours. 
Strain through a sieve. Serve with croquettes, broiled pro- 
tose, or nuttolene. 



PROTOSE SAUCE 

Water, 2 cups. 

Onion, small, minced, 1. 

Butter, 1 rounded tablespoon. 

Flour, browned, 2 rounded tablespoons. 

Protose, minced, ^ cup. 

Tomato, strained, enough to mix the flour smooth. 

"White flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Celery salt. 

Salt. 

Put the water, butter, and onion in a saucepan and set 
on the stove ; when they begin to boil, add the protose, and 
let simmer ten or fifteen minutes, then place where it will 
boil, and thicken with the browned and white flour rubbed 
smooth in the tomato. The thickening should be thin 
enough to pour readily. Let cook a few minutes, add salt 
and celery salt, and serve. 



NUT GRAVY 

"Water, 1 quart. 

Tomatoes, strained, li/^ cups. 

Salt to taste. 

Nut butter, 1 heaped tablespoon. 

Flour. 

Emulsify the butter in the tomato, add to the water, 
and put in a saucepan over the fire, being careful not to 



104 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

scorch. When it boils, thicken with a little flour rubbed 
smooth in water. Use plenty of salt to season, as it brings 
out the nice flavor of the sauce. 

CREAM TOMATO SAUCE 

Make a rich tomato sauce, and add one fourth part rich 
cream sauce, beating well. 

BROWN GRAVY 

Oil, 1^ cup. 

Flour, 2 dessert-spoons. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Salt. 

Heat the oil, add the flour, and brown; add the hot 
water, and cook five minutes. 

CREAM BROWN GRAVY 

Rich milk, 2 cups. 

Flour, browned, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, white, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler ; braid the flour together 
with a little cold milk, and stir in the hot milk; salt, and 
cook well. 

WALNUT GRAVY 

Walnuts, ground, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, broAvned, 2 tablespoons. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Salt to taste. 



SAUCES 105 

Put the water and milk in a saucepan, and when boiling 
add the walnuts. Thicken with the flour, and salt to taste. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 
Add two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped parsley to 
two cups of cream sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Tomatoes, stewed, 1 quart. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Onion, minced, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Put the tomatoes into a saucepan over the fire ; add the 
onion and salt; boil about twenty minutes; remove from 
range, and strain through a sieve. In another pan melt the 
butter; and as it melts, sprinkle in the flour, stirring till 
it browns and froths a little. Mix the tomato pulp with it, 
and it is ready for use. 

CREAM TOMATO SAUCE 

Cream, 2 cups. 

Tomatoes, strained, 2 cups. 

Salt. 

Flour. 

Heat the cream and tomatoes in separate vessels; 
thicken with flour braided with cold water ; cook until flour 
is done. Pour half the cream into a round-bottom dish; 
and while beating, slowly add the tomato, then the re- 
mainder of the cream. Salt and serve. 

If it is desired to use skimmed milk, add butter after 
beating together. 



SALADS 



All green vegetables that are dressed with acid, salt, 
and oil, and eaten raw, are included in the list of salads; 
and they should always be served crisp and cool. Wash 
salad greens carefully, allowing them to stand in cold or 
iced water until crisp. Drain, and wipe dry with a soft 
towel, taking care not to bruise the leaves. Keep in a cool 
place till serving time. If they are not thoroughly dried, 
the water will collect in the bottom of the dish, and ruin 
any dressing used. 

Remove the thick paring from cucumbers, and a thick 
slice from each end; cut into thin slices, or into half -inch 
dice, and keep in cold water to which salt and lemon juice 
have been added, until ready to serve; then drain thor- 
oughly. 

To make celery crisp, let it stand in cold water. 

Pare tomatoes, and keep in a cold place. Sprinkle with 
chopped ice at serving time. The list of vegetables suitable 
for salads is so long that the question of kind is wholly a 
matter of choice. Asparagus, peas, string-beans, beets, 
cauliflower, etc., are all well utilized in salads. Freshly 
cooked vegetables or left-overs may be used, but all cooked 
vegetables must be cold and perfectly tender. By deftly 
combining these left-overs with the favorite dressing, there 
is material for a delicious and economical salad, to which 
the somewhat aristocratic name "macedoine salad" may be 
given. This salad may consist of a few or many kinds of 
(106) 



SALADS 107 

vegetables, any combination pleasing alike to the eye and 
the palate being permissible, and if care is taken in the 
arrangement, it may be made a very attractive dish. 

To the dressing of salads one must give utmost care 
and attention, as upon its excellence the success of the 
dishes principally depends. While rules for dressings are 
innumerable, there are, after all, only a few really good 
ones. The French dressing and the mayonnaise are most 
generally known, the former being the simplest and most 
commonly used of all dressings. And it is quite the fa- 
vorite for lettuce, cresses, chicory, and other vegetable 
salads. As the salad wilts if allowed to stand in the dress- 
ing, it should not be added till just at the moment of serv- 
ing, and it is for this reason that it is frequently made at 
the table. 

One of the most difficult things to prepare is a per- 
fect mayonnaise; but once the knack is acquired, failure 
afterwards is rare. One essential point is to have all the 
materials cold. Chill in the refrigerator both the bowl and 
oil an hour or more before using. In warm weather it is ad- 
visable during the mixing to set the bowl in a larger one of 
cracked ice. This dressing, if covered closely, will keep 
several days or longer in the ice-box. Keep in a cold place 
till wanted, as it liquefies as soon as mixed with other in- 
gredients. To tone down the taste of the oil, and thus make 
more delicate salads, one may add to the dressing, just 
before it is used, a little cream beaten stiff and dry. This 
dressing is used with nut and fruit salads, and may be 
used with potatoes, tomatoes, celery, and other vegetables. 

Most cooked vegetables intended for salads are moistened 
with a French dressing and allowed to stand an hour or 



108 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

more, or until well seasoned, in a cold place. To this 
process the term "marinate" is applied. Just before serv- 
ing, pour off all the marinade that is not absorbed, and 
add the mayonnaise to the vegetables. A mistake frequently 
made in preparing salad dressing is that of using too 
much acid. The acid flavor should not predominate. 

VEGETAEIAN CHICKEN SALAD 

Protose, chopped, % pound. 

Celery, chopped, 2-3 cup. 

Onion, grated, 1 small teaspoon. 

Nuttolene, chopped, 14 pound. 

Lemons, juice of 2. 

Salt. 

Mayonnaise, 2 tablespoons. 

Mix all together, adding mayonnaise dressing last. 
Serve on lettuce. 

VEGETAEIAN SALMON SALAD 

Carrots, grated, 1 cup. 
Eadishes, grated, % cup. 
Onion, grated, 2 teaspoons. 
Eggs, hard-boiled, 2. 
Nuttolene, 1-8 pound. 
Mayonnaise dressing. 
Parsley. 
Celery salt. 
Salt. 

Force the nuttolene through a fine colander ; mince the 
hard-boiled eggs and parsley. Mix all the ingredients 
well, and serve on lettuce leaf with a garnish of a small 
portion of the minced egg and parsley. Pecan meats may 
be used in the place of nuttolene. 



SALADS 

EUSSIAN SALAD 

Tomatoes, 2. 
Carrots, 4. 
Onion, ^. 
Celery stalk, 1. 
Watercress, 2 sprigs. 
Mayonnaise, 1 pint. 
Salt. 

Cook and dice the carrots; chop the onion fine; chop 
the watercress ; cut the celery in one-inch lengths and split 
very fine. Mix all with the mayonnaise. Serve on a bed 
of lettuce and garnish with sliced tomatoes. 

NUT CERO SALAD 

Nut cero, i^ pound. 

Celery, minced, 2-3 cup. 

Eggs, hard-boiled, 2. 

Lemons, 2. 

Radishes. 

Salt. 

Mince the celery and eggs, and put with the diced 

nut cero; add the lemon juice and salt to taste. Marinate 

for one hour, and then serve on a lettuce leaf, garnished 
with the radishes cut in various shapes. 

TOMATO GELATINE 

Gelatine, % package. 

Tomatoes, strained, 1 pint. 

Onion, 1 slice. 

Celery hearts, minced, % cup. 

"Water, 1 cup. 

Salt. 

8 — Cook Book 



ilO VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Boil the onion and celery in the tomatoes until the 
flavor is obtained, then strain, and add to the gelatine after 
dissolving it in one cup of water. Pour in molds, and 
set on ice to cool. Serve with mayonnaise, on lettuce leaf. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

Cottage cheese may be served as a salad when garnished 
with lettuce and mayonnaise, or it may be combined with 
nuttolene and served as suggested above. 

NUT CHEESE 

Nuttolene, % pound. 

Lemon juice, 3 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Parsley, minced. 

Press the nuttolene through a fine colander, add the 
other ingredients, form in desired shape, and serve. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cabbage, chopped very fine, I14 cups. 

Walnuts, chopped, 1^ cup. 

Cream, % cup. 

Lemon, juice of 1. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Beat the cream, sugar, and lemon juice together; then 
pour over the walnuts, cabbage, and salt, which have been 
thoroughly miKcd. 

LETTUCE 

Separate the leaves, and carefully wash to remove every 
particle of grit. Shake the water off the leaves. Place on 



SALADS 111 

a plate or in a salad dish, and send to the table for each 
to prepare as preferred. 

Dress with lemon, salt, or olive oil. A mayonnaise or 
lettuce dressing may be provided for the table. If pre- 
ferred, lettuce may be cut fine before being sent to the 
table. 

CELERY AND CABBAGE SALAD 

Celery, 3 cups. 
Cabbage, 1 cup. 
Lemon juice, ^ cup. 
Mayonnaise, i/^ cup. 
Salt. 

Mince the celery and cabbage very fine, and marinate 
with the lemon ^uice. Drain off the juice, add the salt and 
the mayonnaise dressing, and serve. 

ASPARAGUS AND PBOTOSE SALAD 

Asparagus, 1% cups. 
Protose, iy2 cups. 
Salt. 
Mayonnaise. 

Wash the asparagus, and cut into pieces half an inch 
long. Boil in salted water till tender. Drain; and when 
cold, put into salad dish with protose cut into dice. Sea- 
son with salt. Serve on a lettuce leaf with mayonnaise. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Cut cooked asparagus tips into three-inch lengths, and 
serve on lettuce leaf with cream dressing. 



112 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

ASPARAGUS AND CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

Asparagus tips, boiled and drained, 2 cups. 
Cauliflower, boiled, drained, cut in small pieces, 2 cups. 
Dress with cream salad dressing. 

POTATO SALAD 

Potatoes, 3. 
Mayonnaise, % cup. 
Onion, grated, 1 teaspoon. 
Parsley, minced, 1 teaspoon. 
Salt. 

Steam the potatoes until tender, cool, cut lengthwise 
in quarters, and slice; add salt, onion, and parsley, and 
mix well; then fold in the mayonnaise carefully. Keep 
in a cool place until ready to serve. 

CUCUMBERS 

Pare, and lay in cold, salted lemon water — ice water 
if possible — for an hour. Slice very thin. 

ENGLISH SALAD 

Lettuce, chopped, 1 cup. 
Celery, chopped, 1 cup. 
Mayonnaise, 1 tablespoon. 
Lemons, juice of 2. 

Mix lettuce, celery, and lemon juice thoroughly, then 
add mayonnaise, and salt to taste. 

EGG SALAD 

Eggs, 4. 
Dressing. 



SALADS 113 

Hard boil the eggs, drop in cold water, peel off shell, 
and cut lengthwise in quarters; place these quarters on a 
lettuce leaf, points nearly touching each other; in the 
center place a spoonful of any sour salad dressing. 

PROTOSB AND CELEEY SALAD 

Protose, diced, 21^ cups. 
Onion, grated, 1 tablespoon. 
Favorite salad dressing. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Crisp celery, 1^4: cups. 
Lettuce or celery leaves. 

Cut protose into half -inch dice ; add a little salt, grated 
onion, and celery cut into the same size as protose. Dress, 
and serve on lettuce leaves or garnish with celery leaves. 

OLIVE AND ALMOND SALAD 

Olives, 18. 

Celery, ll^ cups. 

Almonds, blanched, 1% cups. 

Salad dressing. 

Lettuce. 

Stone and chop the olives. Add the almonds chopped, 
also the celery cut fine. Mix with salad dressing and serve 
on lettuce. 

LIMA BEAN SALAD 

Lima beans, raw, 1 cup. 

Celery, finely minced, 1 cup. 

Onions, grated. 

Salt. 

Dressing. 



114 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Boil the beans ^imtil tender, but not overdone ; drain 
and cool; add celery and a small amount of grated onion 
and salt; fold in favorite dressing. 

LIMA BEAN AND CELERY SALAD 

Lima beans, 1 cup. 
Celery, minced, 1 cup. 
Eggs, hard-boiled, 1 cup. 
Lettuce, minced, 1 cup. 
Nuttolene, i/4 pound. 

Boil the beans till tender; drain and cool. Add the 
minced celery, minced lettuce, nuttolene cut into small 
dice, and hard-boiled eggs finely chopped. Serve with 
favorite dressing. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Eggs, 6. 

Protose, 1 slice. 

Sour cream, 14 cup. 

Salt. 

Oil. 

Lemon juice, 2 teaspoons. 

Olives, 6. 

Place hard-boiled eggs in cold water, so that the shells 
will loosen; peel, cut crosswise, and remove yolks, to which 
add salt, oil, and sour cream; mix well, and add lemon 
juice, minced protose, and olives; grated onion may be 
used for those who desire it, and one fourth cup of cottage 
cheese also may be included if liked. Refill the eggs, and 
fasten together with toothpicks, evening the cut portions 



SALADS 115 

with narrow strips of lettuce. Garnish with cut olives 
or mayonnaise. The halves of the white may be filled 
heaping full and served thus. 

PEA AND ONION SALAD 

Peas, canned or stewed, drained, 4 cups.' 
Onion, grated, 2 tablespoons. 
Lettuce leaves. 
Mayonnaise. 

Let the peas drain, then add the onion, and mix well. 
Set in a cold place; and when ready to serve, pour over 
the mayonnaise. Mix all together lightly, and serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

GHEEN PEA AND CELERY SALAD 

Green peas, 2 cups. 

Celery, minced, 1 cup. 

Onion. 

Salad dressing. 

Salt. 

Drain the peas, and add the minced celery, salt, and a 
dash of grated onion ; stir in the salad dressing, and serve. 

GEEEN PEA AND NUTTOLENE SALAD 

Peas, 1 can. 

Nuttolene, i^ pound. 

Onion. 

Salt. 

Dressing. 



116 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Drain the peas; add the nuttolene cut very fine; sea- 
son with salt and grated onion; mix with any sour salad 
dressing. 

NUT AND PEA SALAD 

Walnut meats, 1 cup. 
French peas, 1 can. 
Mayonnaise. 
Lettuce. 

Drain the liquid off the peas, and let them get cold; 
then mix with the walnuts. Pour mayonnaise dressing 
over all, and mix thoroughly. Serve on lettuce. 

MACARONI AND GREEN PEA SALAD 

Macaroni, cooked, 1 cup. 

Green peas, cooked, 1 cup. 

Pecan meats, chopped, 14 cup. 

Salt. 

Onion, grated. 

Mayonnaise. 

Cut the macaroni into quarter-inch lengths; drain the 
peas, mix all together, and serve. 

DATE AND CELERY SALAD 

Chop dates and celery, and serve with golden salad 
dressing. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Apples, cut in dice, 11/2 cups. 

Lemon juice, y^ cup. 

Lettuce. 

Celery, cut in dice, \y^ cups. 

Mayonnaise dressing. 



SALADS U7 

Mix the apples, celery, and lemon juice well together, 
and pour mayonnaise dressing over. Serve on lettuce. 

In making "Waldorf salad, use only crisp, white, tart 
apples, and the tender, white heart of the celery. The 
celery should be cut a little smaller than the apples. Use 
mayonnaise or white salad dressing. 

Drain off the lemon juice before adding the dressing, 
or it will ruin the mayonnaise. 



NUT AND FRUIT SALAD 

Pineapple, canned, diced, 1 cup. 
Nuts, chopped, 1% cups. 
Oranges, diced, 1 cup. 
Dates, diced, 1 cup. 

Mix all together, and add golden salad dressing one 
hour before serving. 



BRAZILIAN SALAD 

Ripe strawberries, li^ cups. 

Pineapple, fresh, cut in small cubes, I14 cups. 

Brazil nuts, blanched and thinly sliced, 12. 

Lemon juice, 4 tablespoons. 

Lettuce. 

Dressing, 1 spoon. 

Cut the strawberries and pineapples into small cubes, 
and add thinly sliced Brazil nuts that have been marinated 
in lemon juice. Arrange lettuce in rose shape, fill the 
crown with the above mixture, and cover with a spoonful of 
mayonnaise or golden salad dressing. 



118 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

FRUIT SALAD 

Apples, cut in half-inch cubes, 1 cup. 
Bananas, cut in half-inch cubes, 1 cup. 
Oranges, cut in half-inch cubes, 1 cup. 

Mix all together, and serve with golden salad dressing. 

FANCY FRUIT SALAD NO. 1 

On a select leaf of lettuce place a slice of pineapple; 
on this a slice of apple, cut transversely ; then a slice of an 
orange cut the same way ; next three slices of banana ; over 
this pour so that it will run down one side only, the golden 
salad dressing; garnish with a strawberry, cherry, or some 
fruit of proper color. 

FANCY FRUIT SALAD NO. 2 

Oranges, 4. 
Bananas, 3. 
Strawberries, 1 cup. 
Cream, 1 cup. 
Lettuce. 

Line the dish with lettuce leaves; on these place slices 
of thin-cut oranges, next a layer of sliced bananas, and then 
a few sliced strawberries; cover with whipped cream, and 
garnish with strawberries. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD 

Arrange large, well-washed strawberries around a 
butter chip which has been placed in a bread plate. In 



SALADS 119 

the butter chip place a mound of powdered sugar, and in 
this sugar place a selected berry. Currants may be served 
in the same manner. 

BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananas lengthwise, and slice, and cover with the 
uncooked sweet salad dressing. 



NESSLERODE SALAD 

This salad is prepared by a combination of various 
colored fruits, such as red and black cherries, red and 
white currants, red and black berries, pineapples, etc. 
Place a layer of fruit in the salad bowl, then sugar, an- 
other layer of fruit, more sugar, etc. Add lemon juice to 
taste. Shake the bowl gently from side to side to draw out 
the juice. Prepare two hours before serving, and keep 
on ice. 




SALAD DRESSINGS | 



MAYONNAISE DEESSING 

Eggs, 2. 

Salad or olive oil. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Celery salt. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Into a small beating bowl break two fresh eggs (do not 
separate yolks from whites), add pinch of salt, and celery 
salt. Beat until it begins to thicken, then add oil, very 
slowly at first. The thicker the eggs get, the faster the 
oil may be added. Keep adding the oil until the mixture 
is very stiff. Then add two tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 
Mix thoroughly. Do not use lemon juice alternately with 
the oil when making the dressing. This dressing may be 
bottled and kept for a year. 

To Prepare for Vegetable Salad 

Take one part lemon juice and two parts water. Mix 
with dressing. More water or lemon juice may be added 
to taste. 

To Prepare for Fruit Salad 

Add plain whipped cream. 
(120) 



SALAD DRESSINGS 121 

Note. — The eggs, oil, and beating bowl should be placed 
on ice for thirty minutes before making. This will pre- 
vent curdling. 

This mayonnaise dressing may be used as a substitute 
for butter. 

GREEN MAYONNAISE 

Make as ordinary mayonnaise. Use two light-colored 
yolks and six tablespoonfuls of oil. Chop enough parsley 
to make one tablespoonful, put it into a bowl, and with a 
knife rub it to a pulp. Then add gradually to the mayon- 
naise. Add a teaspoonful of the lemon juice. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

Oil, 3 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Onion juice, i^ teaspoon. 

Mix and pour over the salad. 

FAVORITE SALAD DRESSING 

Butter, iy2 dessert-spoons. 
Flour, 1 heaped dessert-spoon. 
Salt. 

Egg, 1. 

Lemon juice, % cup. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, but be careful not to 
brown it. When hot, stir in the flour, and the hot lemon 
juice, diluted with one fourth cup of water. Beat in thor- 
oughly the egg yolk, salt to taste, and remove. When cool, 
stir this dressing through the vegetables, and serve on a 
garnish of crisp lettuce. 



122 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

OIL SALAD DRESSING (SOUR) 

Lemon juice, 2 teaspoons. 
Oil, % cup. 
Salt, % teaspoon. 
Water, 2 teaspoons. 
Eggs, 2. 

Heat together in a double boiler, stirring constantly. 
When it begins to thicken, place in cold water and stir 
until cold. 

GOLDEN SALAD DRESSING 

Pineapple juice, ^^ cup. 
Lemon juice, ^ cup. 
Eggs, beaten, 2. 
Sugar, 1-3 cup. 
Corn-starch, 2 teaspoons. 

After beating the eggs well, add the pineapple juice, 
lemon juice, sugar, and a small pinch of salt. Beat to- 
gether and cook in a double boiler. Let cook about two 
minutes, and add the corn-starch. 

NUT SALAD DRESSING 

Nut butter, 2 dessert-spoons. 
Lemon juice, i^ cup. 
Egg yolk, 1. 
Salt. 

Dilute the lemon juice with an equal quantity of water, 
and stir gradually into the nut butter as if preparing for 
table use; cook over boiling water until it is thickened; 
remove, and add salt and beaten egg yolk; beat smooth. 
If to be used for fruit, add sugar. 



SALAD DEE8SING8 123 

NUT AND TOMATO SALAD DEESSING 

Nut butter, 1 teaspoon. 
Tomatoes, strained, 1 cup. 
Salt. 

Dilute the nut butter with a little of the tomato ; when 
mixed smooth, add the remainder of the tomato ; cook over 
a double boiler. 

WHITE DRESSING 

Egg yolk, light colored, 1. 

Salt. 

Cracked ice. 

Cream, whipped to stiff froth, 6 tablespoons. 

Oil, 6 tablespoons. 

Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Drop the yolk into a cold bowl, mix lightly, and salt; 
then add the oil drop by drop. The dressing should be 
very thick. Stand the bowl in anQther containing a little 
cracked ice, so that you may be constantly reducing the 
color of the egg. Slowly add the lemon juice, then stir 
in the whipped cream. This dressing, if properly made, 
should be almost as white as whipped cream, while having 
the flavor of mayonnaise. Serve with Waldorf salad. 

WHIPPED CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Egg yolks, 5. 
Butter, melted, ^4 cup. 
Lemon juice, 4 tablespoons. 
Salt, 1 level teaspoon." 
Sugar, 1 level teaspoon. 
Rich cream, 1 cup. 



124 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

To the yolks add the salt and sugar; beat with an 
egg whisk until thick and light, then add gradually the 
melted butter and the lemon juice. Cook over hot water 
until the mixture thickens and falls away from the sides 
of the pan. Take from the stove, put into a glass jar, 
and when cool cover closely. When ready to use, pour into 
it lightly the rich cream whipped to a stiff, dry froth. 
If whipped cream can not conveniently be obtained, plain 
sweet or sour cream may be used in the dressing, but it 
will not be so light and flaky. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING NO. 1 

Cream, 1 cup. 

Butter, size of walnut. 

Salt, 1 level teaspoon. 

Lemon juice, 4 tablespoons. 

Corn-starch, 1 rounded teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 1 level teaspoon. 

Put the cream into a double boiler. When scalding hot, 
add the corn-starch dissolved in a little cold milk, and 
cook about five minutes, stirring constantly. Then add the 
butter. With the yolks of the eggs put the salt and sugar; 
beat till light and thick, then add alternately the lemon 
juice and the hot cooked mixture. Fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites, and set aside to become cold. 

This dressing may be used the same as mayonnaise. 

WHITE CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Make the same as cream salad dressing No. 1, omitting 
the yolks of the eggs. 



SALAD DEESSINGS 125 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING NO. 2 



Cream, 1 cup. 
Corn-starch, 1 tablespoon. 
Egg white, 2 tablespoons. 
Lemon juice, 3 tablespoons. 
Oil, 2 tablespoons. 
Powdered sugar, 2 teaspoons. 
Salt. 



Heat the cream in a double boiler, thicken with corn- 
starch, add sugar, and remove from the fire; when par- 
tially cool, put in the beaten white; and when cold, the 
oil and salt. Just before serving, add the lemon juice. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING NO. 3 

Lemon juice, 3^ cup. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Rich milk or cream, V^ cup. 

Oil, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, well beaten, 2. 

Corn-starch, 2 teaspoons. 

Add the sugar, salt, and oil to the lemon juice; heat, 
and thicken with corn-starch braided with a little water; 
stir in the eggs ; remove from the stove, and add the cream. 

CREAM TOMATO SALAD DRESSING 

Cream, 1 cup. 
Tomatoes, strained, 1-3 cup. 
Lemon juice, y^ cup. ' 
Salt. 

Beat the cream until stiff, then fold in the thick tomato 
pulp, lemon juice, and salt. 

9 — Cook Book 



126 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

UNCOOKED SWEET SALAD DRESSING 

Cream, thick, i/^ cup. 
Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 
Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

To the thick cream add the sugar; stir well, and then 
slowly add the lemon juice, constantly stirring. This 
should thicken at once. 

RED SALAD DRESSING 

Strawberry juice, % cup. 
Lemon juice, ^ cup. 
Sugar, y^ cup. 
Butter, y^ size of walnut. 
Corn-starch, 2 teaspoons. 

Stem and wash sufi&eient berries to make one half a 
cup of juice; add half the sugar, and crush well; allow 
to stand in a cool place for two hours; shake through a 
fine sieve to obtain juice ; add to the juice the lemon juice 
and butter, bring to the boiling point, and stir in the re- 
mainder of the sugar, with which has been thoroughly 
mixed the corn-starch. Cook and cool, and add to the 
salad. 




STEAMED APPLE PUDDING 

Apples, 6. 

Seedless raisins, 1 cup. 

Bread criimbs, 3 cups. 

Eggs, 4. 

Fruit juice, % cup. 

Sugar, y^ cup. 

Lemon flavor if desired. 

Mince the apples fine, and miK with the raisins, bread 
crumbs, and sugar. Add the fruit juice and the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, fold in the beaten whites, and steam 
from three to five hours. 

PLUM PUDDING 

Eggs, 4. 

Cream, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1% cups. 

Kaisins, seeded, chopped, y^ pound. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 

Butter, 1-3 pound. 

Currants, % pound. 

Candied citron, size of egg. 

Beat the eggs, add the cream, bread crumbs, flour, and 

butter. Beat well together, and mix in the sugar and 

fruit. Mix well, pour into a buttered pan, cover, and 

steam about two hours. 

(127) 



128 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

STEAMED PEUIT PUDDING 

Tart apple pulp, 2 cups. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 6. 

Grape juice, 2% cups. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Bread crumbs, toasted, 4 cups. 

Seedless raisins, 1 cup. 

Lemon rind, grated, 1. 

Vanilla, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix all well together except the whites of the eggs, 
which should be beaten stiff and added last. Turn into 
a buttered mold, cover, and steam or boil for three hours. 
Serve with sweetened cream, flavored with nutmeg. 

FIG PUDDING 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Corn-starch, 14 cup. 

Flour, 14 cup. 

Fig marmalade, 1^ cups. 

Cream, 1% cups. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 4. 

Mix the butter with the corn-starch and flour ; mix the 
fig marmalade and the cream, and stir in the first mix- 
ture, together with the sugar and the yolks of eggs. Mix 
well, and fold in quickly the well-beaten whites. Pour 
into a buttered pudding mold, cover, and steam one and 
one half hours. 

DATE PUDDING 

Make the same as fig pudding, using date marmalade. 



PUDDINGS 129 

ADELAIDE PUDDING NO. 1 

Eggs, 6. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Lemon extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Corn-starch, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 114 cups. 

Lemon, grated rind and juice, 1. 

Flour, 114 cups. 

Over the beaten yolks pour a sirup made by boiling 
the sugar in the water. Add lemon rind and juice, lemon 
extract, and salt. Beat up well, and mix in slowly the 
flour and corn-starch. Fold in the beaten whites of the 
eggs, pour into a greased pudding dish, and steam one and 
one half hours. 

ADELAIDE PUDDING NO. 2 

Eggs, 6. 

Water, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 cup. 

Corn-starch, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Lemon extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt. 

Cooking oil, 1 tablespoon. 

Break the eggs in a mixing bowl, and add the sugar, 
water, and salt. Set the bowl on a medium hot stove, and 
beat until very stiff. Have the flour and starch well 
mixed together, then add these, the flavoring, and oil in 
succession, a little at a time. Put in a greased pudding 
dish, and steam one and one half hours. This can be 
baked as a cake if desired. 



130 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

CABINET PUDDING 

Candied citron, i/^ cup. 

Seedless raisins, ^ cup. 

Currants, i^ cup. 

Nutmeg. 

Stale sponge cake, 1 quart. 

Milk, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. 

Butter, melted, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt. 

Mix all together, and bake in a pan set in a pan of 
water, or steam in covered mold. Serve with a tart sauce. 

FEUIT TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Tapioca, l^ cup. 
Cold water, 2i/^ cups. 
Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 
Fruit, 1 cup. 
Salt, V2 teaspoon. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Use fresh strawberries, sliced bananas, diced pine- 
apple, seeded prunes, or any stewed fruit from which the 
juice has been drained. When the tapioca has cooked until 
clear, put all the seasoning into it, and put a layer into 
a pudding dish, then a layer of fruit, and so on, having 
the top layer tapioca. Serve with cream. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

Tapioca, 1 cup. 
Pineapple juice, 1 cup. 
Water, 4 cups. 
Sugar, 2-3 cup. 



PUDDINGS 131 

Better results follow when the tapioca is soaked over- 
night or for several hours. "Wash the tapioca, and soak 
in the water ; just before cooking add sugar and pineapple 
juice. Cook in a double boiler until transparent, and pour 
into a flat pan to cool. If sliced pineapple is at hand, 
dice it, and place in the bottom of the pan, before pouring 
in the tapioca. 

If, when cooking tapioca or sago for pudding, it should 
cook too long and get thin, it may be made into a good 
dessert by beating it into beaten egg whites; season, and 
mold in cups or pan. Serve with a colored sauce. 

ORANGE SAGO MOLD 

Sago, % cup. 
Sugar, Y2 cup. 
Orange juice, 1 cup. 
Water, 3 cups. 

"Wash the sago, and cook in the orange juice and water 
with the sugar until transparent and thoroughly done; 
then turn into individual glass sauce dishes, and put away 
to cool. Garnish with a little bright colored jelly or jam. 

CREAM SAGO PUDDING 

Sago, % cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Milk or cream, 1 quart. 

Eggs, 2. 

Lemon flavoring. 

"Wash the sago, and put with the milk into a double 
boiler, and cook until clear. Beat the eggs very Ught, and 
add the sugar and flavor. Remove the sago from the 



132 VEGETABIAN COOK BOOK 

range, and allow to cool a little ; then pour in the eggs and 
sugar, beating all the time. Put into a pudding pan, set 
in a pan of water, cover, and bake until the custard is set. 

PLAIN CUSTARD 

Sugar, % cup. 
Eggs, 6. 
Milk, 1 quart. 
Salt. 

Beat the eggs till light, and stir in the milk, sugar, 
and salt. Bake in a pudding pan set in a pan of hot water. 
Bake until the center of custard is set. 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

Milk, 3 cups. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
"Water, l^ cup. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Eggs, 6. 
Vanilla, y2 teaspoon. 

Put the butter into a saucepan, and set on the range. 
When melted, stir in the sugar, and let cook until a dark 
brown color, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Add 
the water, which should be hot, and stir until the caramel 
(the browned sugar) is dissolved. Beat up the eggs, and 
mix with the milk ; add this to the caramel, and flavor with 
the vanilla. Pour into custard cups, set into shallow pan 
of water, and bake till the custard is set in the middle. 

If the caramel should get too brown, add sugar and 
only a portion of the caramel. 



PUDDINGS 133 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD (RICH) 

Tapioca, i?^ cup. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Salt, ^ teaspoon. 
Milk, 1 quart. 
Eggs, 4. 
Flavor to suit. 

"Wash the tapioca, and put to cook with the milk in a 
double boiler; stir occasionally, and cook till clear. Beat 
the eggs till light, beat in the sugar, and add to the tapioca. 
Let cook a minute, and remove from the range. Stir in 
the flavoring, turn into a pan of suitable size, and brown 
in oven. Serve cold. If desired, the whites of two of 
the eggs may be used as a meringue, which should be 
flavored the same as the custard. 

BANANA TAPIOCA 

Same as pineapple tapioca, but use bananas instead 
of pineapples. Milk may be substituted for water, and 
two eggs used if desired. 

The tapioca may also be flavored and colored. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 
Eggs, 5. 

Jelly, 2 tablespoons. 
Flavor to suit. 

Make a custard of the milk, the yolks of the eggs, the 
whites of two, and the sugar. Whip the remaining three 



134 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

whites to a stiff froth, with a little sugar, and flavor- 
ing the same as for the custard. . Cool the custard, and 
pour into individual glass dishes. Drop spoonfuls of the 
whites on the custard so as to form islands; or it may be 
put on with a pastry tube or paper funnel. Drop a little 
jelly in the center of each island. 

The custard should be about the same consistency as 
cream sauce. Do not allow it to cook too long, or it may 
curdle. 

GELATINE CUSTARD 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Eggs, 2. 
Sugar, Yz cup. 
Gelatine, ^4 package. 

Soak the gelatine for one hour or more in water about 
one hundred and forty degrees; drain, and put into one 
cup of hot milk; cook until transparent, and add to the 
custard, which should be previously prepared by stirring 
the beaten eggs into the hot milk, in which has been dis- 
solved the sugar. Beat all well together, remove from the 
stove, and pour into molds. 

CORN-STARCH BLANC-MANGE 

Milk, 1 quart. 

Corn-starch, 4 heaped tablespoons. 

Egg whites, 3. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Lemon flavoring. 

Put three cups of milk into a double boiler, and set over 
the fire. When scalding hot, add the remaining milk, in 



PUDDINGS 135 

which have been dissolved the sugar and the corn-stareh. 
Stir till it is thick and there are no lumps. Flavor with 
lemon, take from the range, and add the stiffly beaten 
whites. Pour into molds, and set in a cool place to get 
firm. 

A pleasing effect may be obtained by dividing the mix- 
ture after it is cooked, and coloring one half pink, then 
filling each mold one third full of one, and filling up with 
the other. "When turned from the mold, they will look like 
small, white pyramids capped with pink, or pink with 
white. 

A custard to be served with this blanc-mange is made 
with two cups of milk, the yolks of three eggs, and half 
of a cup of sugar. Flavor the same as blanc-mange. 

APPLE WALNUT PUDDING 

Apples, large, 4. 

Sugar, 14 CTiP- 

Nutmeg. 

Walnuts, chopped, y^^ cup. 

Cake batter. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Peel the apples, cut into half-inch cubes, sprinkle with 
nutmeg and sugar, cover with water, and cook under cover, 
in a slow oven, until tender. Add the nut meats, and 
over all pour cake batter to a depth of one fourth inch. 
Bake, and serve with cream. 

The proportions given for plain sponge cake are 
enough for three such puddings. As it is difficult to make 
a small amount of cake batter, the full recipe could be 
made, and that remaining could be baked as a cake. 



136 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

APPLE COCONUT PUDDING 

Apples, 8. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 quart. 

Coconut, shredded, 1% cups. 

Eggs, 4. 

Corn-starch, l^/^ tablespoons. 

Peel the apples, cut into eighths, and place in a granite 
pudding pan; add three fourths cup of sugar, and water 
nearly to cover; set in a moderate oven, cover, and cook 
until tender and quite dry. Heat the milk in a double 
boiler, together with one cup of the coconut and one fourth 
cup of sugar. Thicken with the corn-starch braided with 
a little milk. When the corn-starch is well cooked, pour 
the mixture over the beaten yolks and whites of two of the 
eggs. Eeturn to the double boiler, and cook again for a 
short time, stirring well. Sprinkle the apples with coco- 
nut, and pour over them the custard. When cool, meringue 
with the remainder of the egg whites in which has been 
sprinkled the remainder of the coconut. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS 

For each dumpling desired, select a medium-sized tart 
apple; peel and core, and lay on a piece of pie paste rolled 
out about five inches square and as thick as for pie. Fill 
the hole in the apple with sugar in which has been mixed 
grated nutmeg. Fold up the crust so as to cover. Place 
in granite pan, and bake until the apples are done. 



PUDDINGS 137 

PLUGGED APPLES 

Apples, 6. 
Bananas, 3. 
Lemon. 
Sugar. 

Select large bellflower apples, wash, and remove the 
core; fill the hole in the apples with small bananas; add a 
little sugar, lemon juice, and water, and bake until tender. 

LEMON APPLE 

Tart apples, 6. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Lemon, 1. 

Pare the apples, and remove the cores, being careful 
not to break the apples. Put into a granite or enameled 
baking pan of suitable size. Fill the holes made by re- 
moving the cores, with the sugar; moisten the sugar with 
the lemon juice, and sprinkle a little of the grated rind 
on each apple. Pour sufficient water into the pan to half 
cover the apples. Cover and bake until clear, 

APPLE PUDDING, BAKED 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Eggs, 4. 

Green tart apples, grated, 6. 

Sugar, Ya cup. 

Lemon, 1. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream; add to this the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs, the juice and grated rind 
of the lemon, and the grated apples; fold in the beaten 



138 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

whites of the eggs, flavor, and bake. Serve cold with 
cream. One third of a cup of bread crumbs may be added 
if desired. 

APPLE NUT PUDDING 

Apple pulp, 2 cups. 

"Walnuts, ground fine, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 4. 

Sugar, % cup. 

Bread crumbs, ll^ cups. 

Nutmeg. 

Grate sufficient tart apples to make two cups; add the 
sugar, nutmeg, bread crumbs, nuts, and the beaten yolks of 
the eggSj and beat well. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites, 
put into an oiled pudding pan, set in a pan of hot water, 
and bake. Serve with sweetened cream or lemon sauce. 

APPLE SNOW 

Apple sauce, 1 pint. 
Egg whites, 2. 

Strain the apple sauce, and heat to boiling; while hot, 
pour over the beaten whites; beat well, and sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Serve cold. 



STRAWBERRY FLUFF 

Egg whites, 2. 
Strawberries, 1 pint. 
Sugar, % cup. 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar, and add to the 
unbeaten whites, which should be in a deep dish. Beat 



PUDDINGS 139 

with an egg whisk until light and foamy. This makes a 
dainty, toothsome dessert, and can be prepared on short 
order. 

ORANGE TRIPFLE 

Orange juice, 1 cup. 
Water, 1 cup. 
Sugar, 1^ cup. 
Egg whites, 3. 
Corn-starch, 3 teaspoons. 

Heat the water, orange juice, and sugar; thicken with 
the corn-starch, and pour over the beaten whites. Beat 
well, and allow to cool before serving. 

PEACH FLUFF 

Peaches, canned or stewed, 1 quart. 
Sugar, % cup. 
Egg whites, 4. 
Corn-starch, 3 tablespoons. 

Drain the juice from the peaches, add the sugar, and 
bring to a boil; thicken with the corn-starch braided in a 
little cold water. Allow to cool, and add the peaches after 
they have been forced through a fine colander. Next fold 
in the stiflBy beaten whites of the eggs. Serve in glass, with 
a teaspoonful of red jelly on top of each dish. Other fruits 
may be used instead of peaches. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLe' 

Eggs, 4. 

Cream or milk, 1^^ cups. 

Sugar. 

Strawberries. 



140 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Place strawberries in a glass dish, and pour over them 
a custard made of the egg yolks, milk, and sugar. Cover 
with a meringue made of the whites and a little sugar. 
Garnish with strawberries. Do not bake the meringue. 

SNOW PUDDING 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Salt, 1-3 teaspoon. 
Egg whites, 5. 
Sugar, 1-3 cup. 
Corn-starch, 1-3 cup. 
Vanilla to flavor. 

Set the milk, sugar, and salt in a double boiler over the 
fire; when scalding hot, add the corn-starch mixed smooth 
in a little cold milk. When nearly coldj stir in carefully 
the stiffly beaten whites, and flavor with vanilla. Serve 
with vanilla sauce. 

SPONGE PUDDING 

Milk, 2 cups. 
Flour, y^ cup. 
Sugar, 1-3 cup. 
Eggs, 4. 

Put the milk into a double boiler. Mix the sugar and 
flour with a little cold milk; pour this into the scalding 
milk, and stir till it thickens; then stir into the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs ; add the whites beaten stiff. Pour 
the mixture into buttered cups or a pudding dish. Put 
into a pan of boiling water, place in the oven, and bake 
for a few minutes. Serve in the cups in which it is baked, 



PUDDINGS 141 

or on hot plates if baked in a pudding dish. This should 
not be allowed to stand, but be served immediately. 



BREAD PUDDING 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 
Stale bread, 1% cups. 
Eggs, 3. 
Flavor to suit. 

Soak the bread in the milk; beat the yolks and one of 
the whites of the eggs with the sugar, and flavor. Mix 
and put into a pudding dish. Set into a pan of hot water, 
and bake until the custard is set. Meringue with the whites. 

If desired, the top of the pudding may first be marked 
with jelly, marmalade, or fresh fruit of some kind, and the 
meringue put over all. 

CAKE PUDDING 

Stale cake, 2 cups. 
Milk, 3 cups. 
Eggs, 2. 
Raisins, 14 cup. 

Beat the egg yolks, add the milk, and pour over the cake, 
which should first be crumbled into a pudding pan. The 
raisins should be pressed down so that they will not burn. 
Set in a pan of hot water, and bake. This may be covered 
with a thin layer of jelly or shredded pineapple before the 
addition of the meringue, which is made of the two egg 
whites and two teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

10 — Cook Boot 



142 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

PKESSED FEUIT PUDDING 

Bread, 8 slices. 

Huckleberries, stewed, 1 quart. 

Sugar, 1/^ cup. 

Trim the bread, cutting off all crusts; put four slices 
in the bottom of a pudding pan ; cover with half the berries, 
which should have the juice strained off; sprinkle over 
part of the sugar ; then add the rest of the bread and the 
remainder of the berries and sugar. Over all pour the 
juice that has been drained; there should be enough to 
moisten the bread thoroughly. If to be served the same 
day, put another pan on top of the pudding, with a weight 
in it, to press the pudding. It is not necessary to press 
the pudding if not used the same day it is made. Serve 
with sweetened cream or sweet sauce. 

Strawberries or other fruit may be used in place of 
the huckleberries. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

Remove the crusts from stale white bread, and slice 
the remainder of the loaf very thin; cover the bottom of a 
granite pan with a layer of these slices, and cover these with 
stewed blueberries; which should not be very juicy. Re- 
peat these layers two or three times, and then press by pla- 
cing another pan on top of it, with weights in it. This 
should stand for several hours. Being prepared the day 
before, it would make a desirable dessert for a Sabbath 
dinner. Cut in squares, and serve with cream, or a cream 
^p^i^ing sauce. 



PUDDINGS 143 

BEOWN BETTY 

Apples, chopped, 2 cups. 
Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 
Butter, % cup. 
Raisins, chopped, 1 cup. 
Raisin or prune juice, 1 cup. 

Fill a pudding dish with alternate layers of the fruit 
and crumbs, — fruit first, finishing with bread crumbs on 
top. Pour over it the fruit juice and melted butter. Set 
the dish in a pan of hot water, cover, and bake in a 
moderate oven for nearly an hour; then remove the cover, 
and brown lightly. Serve with sweetened cream or lemon 
sauce. 

PRUNE PUDDING NO. 1 

Milk or cream, 1 quart. 
Eggs, 3. 

Prune marmalade, 2 cups. 
Corn-starch, 1 tablespoon. 
Lemon extract. 

Thicken the milk with the corn-starch, add the prune 
marmalade and beaten eggs, flavor to taste, and bake in a 
pan of water until well set. 

PRUNE PUDDING NO. 2 

Prune pulp, 1 cup. 

Egg whites, well beaten, 4. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Stir the beaten whites of eggs with the prune pulp 
and sugar. Bake till lightly browned, and serve withlUflk 
cream. " 



144 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

BANANA FARINA 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Farina, y^ cup. 
Sugar, y^ cup. 
Vanilla. 
Bananas. 

Heat the milk and sugar, slowly add the farina, and 
cook on the stove until set; then finish cooking in the 
double boiler. Remove from the stove, stir in the vanilla, 
and pour over the sliced bananas. Serve hot or cold with 
cream. 

CREAM RICE PUDDING 

Rice, % cup. 

Cream or milk, 3 cups. 

Eggs, 4. 

Cook the rice in the cream or milk ; when nearly done, 
remove from the range, and stir in the yolks of the eggs. 
Pour into a pan, and set in another containing water, and 
bake fifteen or twenty minutes, or till the eggs are cooked. 
Make a meringue of the whites. 

RICE PUDDING 

Rice, y^ cup. 
Milk, 4 to 6 cups. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

If the pudding is to be served as soon as cooked, less 
milk will be required; if cooked slowly in the oven, less 
milk will be required than when boiled rapidly on top 
o l p fc e stove. Pour the cold milk in a granite baking pan 



PUDDINGS 145 

and place on top of the stove; wash the rice, and add it 
and the sugar to the milk, stirring carefully occasionally 
with a pancake turner to prevent scorching. Allow to boil 
five minutes, then set in the oven and bake under cover 
until done; remove cover, and brown. Seedless or seeded 
raisins may be added; also any other flavoring desired. 

RICE PATTIES 

Rice, cooked, 2 cups. 
Butter, 1% tablespoons. 
Eggs, well beaten, 2. 
Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 
Nutmeg. 
Gluten. 

Mix, and stir over the fire till well blended ; when cold, 
add sufficient gluten to form into patties, roll in beaten 
egg, and then in bread crumbs. Bake. Serve hot with 
sweetened cream, flavored with nutmeg. 

CEREAL PUDDING 

Milk, 4 cups. 

Eggs, 4. 

Sugar, 1/^ cup. 

Cream of maize, or cerealine, or 

rice flakes, 2 cups. 
Lemon, grated rind and juice, 1. 

Heat the milk to boiling, and stir in cream of maize, 
cerealine, or rice flakes. Set in double boiler and cook half 
an hour. Remove from the range, and stir in the yolks 
and sugar. Flavor with grated rind and juice of lemon. 



146 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Pour in a shallow pan, and set within another containing 
water, and bake till the custard sets. Meringue with the 
whites. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

Corn-meal mush, 1 quart. 

Milk or cream, 3 cups. 

Molasses, % cup. 

Sugar, 1^ cup. 

Eggs, 5. 

Seedless raisins, % cup. 

Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

The corn-meal mush should be free from lumps. If the 
mush has been cooked in milk, add the three cups of milk; 
if not, add cream; and then the molasses, sugar, ginger, 
raisins, and egg yolks. Beat the whites, and fold in last. 
Pour into a granite pan, set in a pan of water, and bake 
until well set. 

CAKE BLANC-MANGE 

Pour into a flat granite pan a small portion of blanc- 
mange, cover this with a thin layer of cake, and then cover 
with another layer of the blanc-mange. A good custard may 
be used instead of the blanc-mange, or sliced bananas used 
instead of the cake. 



ORANGE FRUIT MOLD 

Orange juice, 1^2 cups. 
Sugar, 114 cups. 
Lemon juice, % cup. 
Water, % cup. 
Vegetable gelatine, 14 ^ox. 



PUDDINGS 147 

Soak the vegetable gelatine in warm water. Pour this 
water off, and put the gelatine in one half cup of boiling 
water, and let boil until thoroughly dissolved. Then re- 
move from the stove, and stir in the other ingredients, 
which should be previously mixed and heated. Pour into 
molds, and let stand until cooled; then turn into sauce 
dishes, and serve with fruit sauce. 

CEEAM PUFFS 

Oil, y^ cup, scant measure. 
Flour, 1 cup. 
Eggs, 3. 

Put the oil into one cup of hot water ; when boiling, add 
the flour, and beat rapidly until smooth; when partially 
cool, add the eggs, one at a time, rubbing the paste smooth 
each time ; drop this mixture in portions about the size of a 
walnut, from a spoon, onto greased pans, leaving room for 
them to expand. Bake in a moderate oven. When cool, 
carefully break open one side far enough to fill with 
whipped cream, which has been sweetened and flavored. 
They can then be sprinkled with powdered sugar, and 
served with or without sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Cream, 1 cup. 

Flour to make a medium soft dough. 

Salt. 

Yeast, 1 tablespoon. 

Warm the cream to about seventy degrees, and add the 
salt, yeast, and about two cups of the flour. Mix thor- 



148 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

oughly, cover, and set in a warm place to rise. When well 
risen and lively, add the rest of the flour, and knead until 
perfectly smooth. Roll out about half an inch thick. Put 
into greased pans, brush the top with melted butter, let 
rise until about double its original size, and bake. Split, 
and fill with whole or crushed berries, sprinkled with sugar. 

FRUIT GELEE 

With the aid of vegetable gelatine it is possible to 
utilize any bits of left-over fruit juice. The method of 
preparation is given in accompanying recipes. Be sure 
to cook the gelatine until it is transparent, or until no 
smaU lumps appear, but no longer. For each package of 
gelatine use no more than three quarts of liquid, including 
that in which the gelatine is boiled. The juice should be 
heated before the gelatine is added. 

The package gelatine called for in the recipes in this 
book is that prepared by the Kellogg Food Company. 

The ordinary gelatine is not to be recommended. 

MAPLE CREAM GELEE 

Sanitas vegetable gelatine, % package. 
Milk, 1 pint. 
Cream, 1 pint. 
Maple sirup, y^ cup. 

Soak the gelatine in water of the temperature of 140 
degrees for an hour or two, strain, and add to li/^ cups of 
boiling water; cook only until the gelatine disappears; 
strain into the milk, cream, and maple sirup, which have 
been heated in a double boiler; pour out into a flat pan, 



PUDDINGS 149 

and when cool, cut into desired shape and size, or pour 
into individual molds. 

COFFEE GELEE 

Cereal coffee, 2 cups. 
Cream, 1 cup. 
Sugar, 1-3 cup. 
Gelatine, 14 package. 
Corn-starch, 1 teaspoon. 

Dissolve the vegetable gelatine in one half cup of water ; 
add the hot cream, coffee, and sugar, which have been 
thickened with the corn-starch. This thickening is to keep 
the cream from rising to the top while it is cooking. 

CHOCOLATE GELEE 

Cream, 2 cups. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Chocolate, powdered, 3 heaping teaspoons. 

Sugar, 2 heaping teaspoons. 

Gelatine, 14 package. 

Corn-starch, 1 teaspoon. 

Dissolve the chocolate in a few spoonfuls of milk; put 
it into the milk and cream, and heat ; add the corn-starch ; 
cook, and then add to the vegetable gelatine, which has 
been dissolved in one half cup of water; mold, and set in 
cool place. 

MERINGUE 

This term is used to denote a covering for desserts, 
usually made by adding sugar to beaten whites. This 
may be served without cooking, or it may be spread on 



150 



VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 



the dessert with a spatula, and set in a slow oven and 
browned. It can also be dropped on hot water, or the hot 
water may be poured on it in a deep dish, and then the 
meringue skimmed off. Cooked meringue will keep its 
shape longer. Add sugar in the proportion of one tea- 
spoon to one egg white. 




<S^ 



PUDDING SAUCES 



i 

i 



GERMAN SAUCE 

Egg yolks, 12. 

Fruit juice, bright colored, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Juice of 1/2 lemon. 

Put the sugar in a saucepan with the fruit juice (prefer- 
ably cherry or strawberry) ; stir it over the fire till hot ; 
then remove it to the side, where it will not boil. Stir in 
the well-beaten yolks, and add the lemon juice. Whisk 
the sauce until well frothed and thickened, and remove 
from the stove. 

HARD SAUCE 

Butter, % pound. 
Sugar, powdered, 1 pound. 
Nutmeg to suit. 

Rub the butter and sugar together until white and 
creamy, then add the nutmeg. 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

Nutmeg, %. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Butter, 1 rounding tablespoon. 

Egg yolks, 2. 

Corn-starch, 1 tablespoon. 

"Water, 2 cups. 

(151) 



152 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Break the nutmeg into pieces, and put into a saucepan 
with the water; boil and add the corn-starch mixed with 
the sugar. Stir over the fire until the corn-starch is cooked, 
then add the butter. Beat the yolks with one tablespoon- 
ful of the sauce, and stir quickly into the remainder, which 
should be immediately removed, as the yolk will curdle if 
boiled. Strain and serve. 

COCONUT SAUCE 

Milk or cream, 1 quart. 
Coconut, shredded, 1 cup. 
Corn-starch, 1 tablespoon. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Steep the coconut in the milk for about twenty minutes, 
strain, add the sugar, reheat, and thicken. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

Oranges, 2. 
Eggs, 2. 
Butter to suit. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Lemon juice, 14 cup. 

Put the juice of the oranges and the grated rind of 
one with the sugar into a saucepan. Set on the range, 
and stir till the sugar is dissolved, then strain through 
a fine sieve to remove the rind. Add the beaten eggs, lemon 
juice, and butter. Before serving, set in a double boiler, 
and stir for a few minutes to melt the butter and thor- 
oughly mix the eggs. Serve hot or cold. This is a good 
sauce for plum pudding. 



PUDDING SAUCES 153 

JELLY SAUCE 

Jelly, 1 cup. 
Water, 2 cups. 
Flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Put the jelly into the hot water, and heat; when boil- 
ing, add the flour braided in a little water; cook five min- 
utes. Butter may be added if desired. 

LEMON SAUCE NO. 1 

Sugar, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. 

Lemons, 2. 

Boiling water, 1^ cups. 

Put the grated rind and juice of the lemons with the 
sugar; beat the eggs until light, and stir into the sugar. 
Just before serving, add the boiling water, set on the 
range, and cook slowly, but do not boil. For a richer 
sauce, add butter. 

LEMON SAUCE NO. 2- 

Water, 2 cups. 

Corn-starch, li/^ tablespoons. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Lemon, grated rind and juice, 1. 

Boil the sugar in the water for five minutes, then 
stir in the corn-starch, previously mixed with a little 
water. Stir over the fire ten minutes, then add the grated 
rind arid juice of the lemon and the butter. When the 
butter is melted, the sauce is ready for use. This sauce 
serves well with a fig pudding. 



154 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

VANILLA SAUCE 

Cream, 2 cups. 
Eggs, 3. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Sugar and vanilla. 

Thicken the cream with the flour, and stir in the beaten 
yolks. Cook a few minutes, stirring all the time. Sweeten 
to taste. When cool, add the beaten whites, and flavor with 
vanilla. 

STEAWBEEEY SAUCE 

Strawberry juice, 1 cup. 
Sugar, 1/^ cup. 

Corn-starch, 2 heaping teaspoons. 
Lemon juice, 14 cup. 

With the juice from crushed strawberries to which no 
water has been added, put the lemon juice, and heat; 
when it comes to a boil, add the sugar and corn-starch, 
which have been thoroughly mixed together. 

PLAIN PUDDING SAUCE 

Butter, 1 large tablespoon. 
Hot water, I14 cups. 
Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 
Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Nutmeg, grated. 

Put the butter into a saucepan; when it has melted, 
stir in the flour, and mix well ; then pour in gradually the 
hot water, and stir over the fire till well cooked; add the 
sugar, lemon juice, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. 



PUDDING SAUCES 155 

MAPLE CREAM SAUCE 

Maple sirup, 1 cup. 
Cream, 2 cups. 
Corn-starch. 

Heat the cream and maple sirup, and thicken with corn- 
starch braided with a little milk. If it is desired to use 
milk instead of cream, add a little butter. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE 

Pineapple juice, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2. 

Corn-starch, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat the pineapple juice and the eggs together, cook 
until they set, and then thicken with the corn-starch 
braided in a little water. 

CREAM PINEAPPLE SAUCE 

Prepare as for pineapple sauce, and beat in an equal 
amount of thick cream. 



PIE CRUST 

Pastry flour, 1 pint. 

Butter, 3 rounding tablespoons; or oil, ^ cup. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cold water, 8 tablespoons. 

Rub the butter or the oil, and the salt, into the flour; 
add the water, stirring carefully with a fork. Lay a suf- 
ficient portion of this on a floured board, and roll out. 
Work the pie paste as little as possible. For tender pie 
crust, use spring wheat flour, as the gluten in the winter 
wheat flour makes it tough. This recipe will make paste 
enough for two double-crust pies. 

PIE SHELLS 

Cover a pie tin with good pie paste, press this into 
shape by setting another tin of the same size into it, trim, 
and bake between the tins. This keeps the crust in shape. 
Use the shells for lemon, prune, and other pies that do not 
require baking after the filling has been added. 

PASTRY GLAZING 

Beat an egg to which has been added a small quantity 
each of milk and sugar. Apply this with a soft pastry 
brush to the top of the pastry. 
(156) 



PIES 157 

CREAM PIE 

Milk, 4 cups. 

Cream, 2 cups. 

Egg yolks, 5. 

Corn-starch, 3 heaping tablespoons. 

Sugar, y^ cup. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Put the milk and the cream together in a double boiler, 
and heat. Beat the yolks well, and add to them the corn- 
starch, after it has been rubbed smooth in water. Stir 
this mixture into the hot milk, put in the sugar, and let 
the whole cook for fifteen or twenty minutes. Remove 
from the stove, and add the vanilla. Fill into baked pie 
shells and allow to cool. 



WASHINGTON CREAM PIE 

Crust : 

Eggs, 6. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 rounded cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Lemon juice, 2 teaspoons. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs till very thick ; add the sugar, 
vanilla, and lemon juice. Beat the whites of the eggs 
very stiff; fold half the whites into the yolks and sugar, 
then half the flour, then the remainder of the whites and 
the rest of the flour. Divide this batter into two pie pans, 
and bake. When cold, split each cake, and put in the 
filling. 

11 — Cook Book 



158 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Filling : 

Milk, 2 cups. 
Eggs, 2. 
Flour, 1/^ cup. 
Sugar, % cup. 
Vanilla, 1% teaspoons. 

Put three fourths of the milk into a double boiler, and 
set on the range. Beat the eggs very light ; add the sugar, 
flour, and the remainder of the milk. Beat till perfectly 
smooth; and when the milk in the boiler is scalding hot, 
stir in the mixture. Beat till smooth, and cook thoroughly ; 
when cool, add the vanilla. If made a day or two before 
serving, and kept on ice, the quality of these pies is 
greatly improved. 

BLUEBERRY PIE 

Line a pie pan with pie paste. Put in the berries half 
an inch deep; and to one quart of berries add one cup of 
sugar in which has been mixed a teaspoonful of flour, a 
pinch of salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Cover with the 
top crust, pressing down the edges tightly. Trim, and 
bake in a good oven forty-five minutes. This pie is the 
typical berry pie. 

COCONUT PIE 

Desiccated coconut, % cup. 

Eggs, 2. 

Butter, size of an egg. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Sugar, % cup. 

Soak the coconut in the milk; add the beaten eggs, 
sugar, and butter melted. Line a pie pan with rich pastry. 



prES 159 

put in the filling, and bake. The white of one of the eggs 
may be used as a meringue, if desired. 

MINCE PIE 

Apples, minced, 4 cups. 
Prune juice, 1 cup. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Molasses (good), 1 cup. 
Butter, 2 tablespoons. 
Protose, minced, 3 cups. 
Seedless raisins, 2 cups. 
Lemon, grated rind and juice, 1. 
Spice to taste. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Stew all together until thick enough for filling. 



MINCE MEAT FILLING 

For Six Pies 

Apples, chopped, medium size, 14. 

Walnuts, chopped, 1 cup. 

Blanched almonds, chopped, % cup. 

Figs, chopped, i^ cup. 

Citron, chopped, 14 cup. 

Raisins, seeded, 1 cup. 

Seedless raisins or currants, 1 cup. 

Caramel cereal coffee, 1 cup. 

Fruit juice, 3 cups. 

Lemons, juice of 4. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar and spice to taste. 

Mix all, and stew until the apples are cooked. 



160 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

BAKERS' CUSTARD PIE 

Sugar, 3 tablespoons. 
Eggs, 3. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 
Salt to taste. 
Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Milk, 2 cups. 
Nutmeg, grated. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs to a cream; stir the flour 
thoroughly into the sugar, and add to the eggs. Put in the 
vanilla, nutmeg, and salt, then the well-beaten whites. Mix 
well, and add by degrees the milk, that has been scalded 
and cooled (but not boiled), and turn all into a deep pie 
pan lined with rich paste. Bake from twenty-five to 
thirty minutes. 

LEMON PIE (SUPERIOR) 

Lemons, 3. 

Water, 3 cups. 

Corn-starch, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 21/^ cups. 

Eggs, 3. 

Flour, 4 tablespoons. 

Put the water and butter into an inner boiler, and set 
on the range. Mix the sugar, flour, and corn-starch to- 
gether; grate in the lemon rind, add the juice, and the 
beaten yolks of the eggs. "When the water in the boiler 
is scalding hot, stir in the mixture, and cook in a double 
boiler till of the consistency of cold honey, stirring now 
and then to insure even cooking. Remove from the fire; 



PIES 161 

when cool, pour into deep baked pie shell. (See recipe for 
pie shells.) "When done, meringue with the whites of the 
eggs. 

PUMPKIN FOR PIES 

Wash the pumpkin, but do not peel it; remove the 
seeds; cut up, cook, and put through a colander. The 
pumpkin is much sweeter cooked this way than when the 
shell is removed before cooking. 

PUMPKIN PIES 

Pumpkin, mashed, 1 cup. 
Molasses, 1-3 cup. 
Sugar, 14 cup. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Eggs, 2. 

Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 
Milk, 1 cup. 

Mix all together thoroughly, adding the milk last. 

PUMPKIN PIES WITHOUT EGGS 

Pumpkin, mashed, 1 cup. 
Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Sugar, scant, 14 cup. 
Nutmeg, a dash. 
Mix together, and when smooth, add — 
Sweet cream, 1 cup. 

PRUNE PIE 

Prune marmalade, 1 pint. 
Egg, 1. 
Lemon, 1. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 



162 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

To the marmalade add the grated rind and juice of 
the lemon, the sugar, and the beaten yolk of the egg; put 
into a pie pan lined with good paste, and bake till the crust 
is done; remove from the oven, and meringue with the 
white of the egg. 

RHUBAEB PIE 

Pie paste. 

Rhubarb, 4 cups. 

Sugar, 1 large cup. 

Nutmeg. 

Salt. 

Flour. 

Line a pie plate with paste rolled a little thicker than 

a silver dollar. Strip the skin off the rhubarb, and cut the 

stalks into half-inch lengths. Fill the plate an inch deep, 

and to a quart of rhubarb add a large cup of sugar mixed 

with a little flour. Sprinkle a pinch of salt and a grating 

of nutmeg. Cover with a rich crust, and bake in a quick 

oven until the pie loosens from the dish. 
i: 

APPLE PIE 

Line a pie pan with rich paste, and sprinkle over the 
bottom a little flour and sugar mixed. Fill with apples 
cut in thin slices. The pan should be slightly rounding full. 
Sprinkle over it a little more flour and sugar, according to 
the tartness of the fruit. Add two tablespoonfuls of water, 
and a few small pieces of butter. Moisten the edge of the 
paste, put on the upper crust, press down the edges, and 
trim; make several perforations in the top to allow the 
steam to escape, brush the cru^with a little milk, and 
bake about forty-five minutes. 



PIES 163 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

Raisins, seeded, 1 cup. 
Cranberries, 2 cups. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Flour, 1 teaspoon. 
Water, i^ cup. 

Grind or chop together the seeded raisins and cran- 
berries. Mix the flour in the sugar, and with one half 
cup of water add to the fruit. Bake in an under crust, 
with crusty ornaments on top. 

STRAWBERRY PIE 

Make a pie shell of tender pie paste, bake, and when 
cool fill with strawberry fluff; garnish with sliced straw- 
berries, and serve. 




CAKES 




SUNSHINE CAKE 

Egg whites, 6. 
Egg yolks, 3. 
Granulated sugar, 1 cup. 
Flour, 1 scant cup. 
Lemon juice, 2 teaspoons. 

Mix and bake as for favorite sponge cake; flavor with — 
liind of lemon, grated. 
Juice of y^ orange. 

ORANGE CAKE 
Use boiled icing flavored with orange. 

ANGEL CAKE 

Flour, 1 cup, sifted 5 times. 
Lemon juice, 2 teaspoons. 
Powdered sugar, sifted, 1 cup. 
Egg whites, beaten to stiff froth, 11. 
Vanilla, 2 teaspoons. 

Fold the sugar into the beaten whites very lightly and 
carefully, adding the vanilla and lemon juice ; after which 
add the flour, folding it in carefully, stirring quickly and 
lightly. Pour into a bright, clean cake dish, which should 
not be buttered nor lined. Bake at once in a moderate oven 
about forty minutes. Test it with a broom splint. When 
(164) 



CAKES 165 

done, let it remain in the cake tin, turning it upside down, 
with the sides resting on two dishes, so that a current of 
air will pass over and under it. 

PLAIN SPONGE CAKE 

Eggs, 4. 

Sugar, 2-3 cup. 

Hot water, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, 1 cup. 

Corn-starch, 1 tablespoon. 

Flavor. 

Break the eggs into a round-bottom basin or crock, 
beat for five to eight minutes with a Dover egg beater, add 
the sugar, and beat again; then add, while beating, the 
hot water and flavor. Now fold in the flour and starch, 
which have been mixed together. Bake in a slow oven. 

SIMPLE SPONGE CAKE 

Eggs, 6. 

Granulated sugar, sifted, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 scant cup. 

To the unbeaten eggs add the sugar, and beat with a 
wire egg beater till the mixture is thick and light colored. 
Then add the flour, folding it in gently. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. When done, invert the pan, letting it rest on 
two dishes till the cake is cool, when it can easily be taken 
out. Thus suspended from the bottom of the pan, the 
cake is stretched by its own weight, which makes it lighter 
and more elastic than if left to fall by its own weight in 
cooling. The quantity given will make a small loaf cake, 
or two layers. 



166 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

SPONGE SHEET 

Mix the ingredients the same as for simple sponge cake, 
but bake in a sheet. Before baking, sprinkle a generous 
quantity of granulated sugar and chipped almonds on top 
of the batter. This produces a delicious crust. Bake in 
a buttered and floured pan, and remove from the pan as 
soon as done. 

FAVORITE SPONGE CAKE 



Eggs, 6. 

Granulated sugar, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 scant cup. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 



Sift the flour and sugar several times. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add the lemon juice. When well 
beaten, fold in carefully in regular order the sugar, the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs, and the flour. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

NUT SPONGE CAKE 

Eggs, 7. 

Water, i^ cup. 

Lemon extract, ^ teaspoon. 

English walnuts, ground, % cup. 

Sugar, ll^ cups. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 rounded cup. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs till thick. Boil the sugar in 
water till it will spin a thread ; pour into the yolks, beating 
all the time till cool; add the vanilla and lemon extract. 



CAKES 167 

Mix the flour with the walnuts ; mix all together, and lastly 
stir in the stifiSy beaten whites. Bake in tins lined with 
greased paper. 

PLAIN CAKE 

Eggs, 8. 

Flour, 2 cups. 

Starch, 1 cup. 

"Water, i^ cup. 

Sugar, 2 cups. 

Oil, 14 cup. 

Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt. 

Mix the flour and the starch. Add the water and the 
lemon juice to the sugar, and heat; boil a few minutes, 
and pour over the stiffly beaten whites, in which the well- 
beaten yolks have been folded, stirring in carefully. Then 
add flour and oil alternately, flavor, and bake in a medium 
oven. 

SPONGE JELLY CAKE 

Eggs, 5. 
Lemon, 1. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Flour, 1 cup. 

Beat the yolks till very thick ; add sugar gradually, then 
the grated rind, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 
Fold in one half of the whites of the eggs, beaten very 
stiff ; then one half of the flour, the other half of the whites, 
and lastly the remainder of the flour. Bake in a large 
dripping pan. Turn onto a cloth, trim the edges, spread 



168 VEaETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

with the jelly, and roll up. Using the cloth makes it roll 
evenly. Wrap in the cloth, and set aside to cool. 

Care should be taken to have a slow, even heat on the 
oven. If the cake is overbaked it will not roll well. 

HONEY CAKES 

Strained honey, 1 quart. 
Pulverized sugar, y^ pound. 
Fresh butter, i^ pound. 
Juice of two oranges. 
Flour. 

Mix thoroughly the honey, sugar, butter, and orange 
juice with enough sifted flour to make a dough stiff enough 
to roll out easily. Turn out on a molding board, beat well 
for a few minutes with the rolling-pin, then roll out into 
a sheet one half-inch thick, cut into round cakes, and bake 
in shallow buttered tins. 

LEMON FILLING 

Eggs, 6. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Lemons, 2; 

Beat the egg yolks until thick; add the sugar, and the 
rind and juice of the lemons. Cook in a double boiler, stir- 
ring constantly until it thickens; then pour it over the 
beaten whites. Allow to cool before using. 

BOILED ICING 

Egg whites, 2. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Water, 14 cup. 



CAKES 169 

Boil the sugar in water until it will spin a thread; 
then pour slowly over the weU-beaten whites, beating all 
the while. 

CEBAM FILLING NO. 1 

Sugar, 1 scant cup. 
Flour, 1-3 cup. 
Milk, 2 cups. 
Eggs, 2. 
Vanilla. 
Salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients, add the eggs slightly beaten, 
gradually add the hot milk, and cook in double boiler. 
When cool, season with the vanilla. 

CREAM FILLING NO. 2 

Cream, 1 cup. 
Egg whites, 2. 

Beat the cream until stiff, and add to the well-beaten 
whites; sweeten, color, and flavor to taste. 

MAPLE FROSTING 

Maple sirup, 1 cup. 
Egg whites, 2. 

Beat the egg whites stiff, and pour over them while hot 
the maple sirup, which should previously be boiled until 
it will spin a thread when a drop of it is drawn between 
the fingers. Maple sugar may be dissolved in water and 
treated in the same way. The egg whites should be beaten 
all the time the sirup is being poured on them. 



i 



i 

BAKERY AND BREAKFAST f 
I DISHES I 

I i 



Thin batters are about the consistency of thin cream. 
Thick batters are like cream. Still thicker batters, which 
may be poured in a continuous stream, are called pour 
batters. Any batter is a pour batter until it is made so 
stiff that it breaks or drops in the pouring, when it is called 
a drop batter. It will remain a batter until too stiff to be 
beaten, when it becomes a dough. 

Doughs, like batters, are of varying degrees of thick- 
ness, ranging from those just stiff enough to be handled, 
to those which may be rolled thin as paper. Generally 
speaking, one full measure of flour to one scant measure 
of liquid makes a pour batter; two full measures of flour 
make a drop batter ; and three full measures make a dough ; 
although, for various reasons, these proportions are subject 
to many modifications. 

If the ingredients in batters were simply mixed and 
cooked slowly, the resulting substances would be hard and 
compact, unfit for human digestion. Hence, to obviate 
this, and to make them light and porous, we must resort 
to other processes. This is accomplished by means of the 
expansion of incorporated air, by the generation of gas 
within the mixture, or by a combination of both methods, 
supplemented by quick cooking before the gas has a chance 
to escape. 

Air at seventy degrees expands to about three times its 
volume when exposed to the temperature of a hot oven. 
(170) 



BAKERY AND BREAKFAST DISHES 171 

Consequently, as a mixture heats in cooking, incorporated 
air expands, giving the desired lightness. Air is incor- 
porated or enclosed in batters by beating the mixture thor- 
oughly, as in making whole wheat gems; by adding eggs 
to the beaten mixture, as in popovers; and by the gas ob- 
tained by the union of an acid with an alkaline carbonate, 
as in the use of baking powders. In batters made light by 
the admixture of air, one must exercise care in beating, in 
order actually to incorporate and retain the air. When eggs 
are added to the mixture, the glutinous consistency of the 
albumin they contain assists in retaining the entangled air. 

LIGHT BEEAD 

In bread making it is necessary to have first-class yeast, 
the best of flour, pure water, a good oven, and any amount 
of good common sense. 

Variations must be made according to locality, climate, 
altitude, kind of flour, and other conditions. Experience 
is a necessary teacher in this as in any other work. The 
quickest and surest way to become proficient in the art 
is to place yourself under the tutorage of a good bread 
maker. 

To insure the best results, the temperature should be 
the same throughout the process; and this can only be 
determined by the use of a thermometer. Ten or fifteen 
cents will buy one which will record 120 degrees, which is 
sufficiently high, as the material should not be allowed to 
reach more than 85 degrees ordinarily. Some localities 
may require a higher temperature. 

An earthen bowl is better than tin or granite, as it is 
not so subject to change of temperature. 



172 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Of the many methods of making good bread, the fol- 
lowing has been chosen by the writer: — 

Break in pieces one half of a dry yeast cake. Some 
use a whole cake ; but it will be noticed that the bread has 
a strong yeasty taste, and the sponge is likely to faU be- 
fore morning, thus deteriorating in both taste and nutri- 
tion. Soak the yeast a few minutes in a little tepid water. 
Into a warmed mixing bowl put a pint of water at 95 
degrees. Add the soaked yeast cake, and beat in warm 
(not hot) flour until the batter is so stiff that it does not 
flatten readily. Beat until smooth, cover, and keep it warm 
overnight. A box of suitable size, bound about with sev- 
eral thicknesses of newspaper, and partly filled with hay, 
straw, or excelsior, makes a warm closet for bread sponge. 
By means of a kettle of hot water, warm bricks, or flat- 
irons, in the bottom of the box, the batter may be kept 
warm until morning, if no room in the house is warm 
enough. Cover the box with enough paper to insure suc- 
cess. The sponge will be light and warm in the morning, 
but should not be removed until the room in which the 
kneading is to be done is warmed to at least 90 degrees. 

Add a pint or more of warm water to the sponge, salt 
to taste, and add a spoonful of sugar. Have the flour, 
kneading board, and your hands warm. Proceed to make 
a stiff dough, and knead it until smooth, so it will clear 
the board without any sprinkling of flour. Return it to 
the warm bowl, and keep it warm until it has risen to 
twice its original size. If an extra fermentation is de- 
sired, it may be lightly worked down, and turned over 
to rise again. The more fermentation, the more the nutri- 
tion is lessened. When ready for the tins,' have them .oiled 



BAKBBY AND BREAKFAST DISHES 173 

and warm. Very slightly knead and symmetrically form 
portions of dough half the size you wish your finished 
loaves to be, and continue to keep them warm. 

If the oven is hot enough to brown a spoonful of flour 
on its floor, it is ready for the bread. The bread should 
be carefully watched, and turned if necessary to insure 
even baking. Should any part of the loaf have a pale 
surface at the end of an hour, it may be removed from 
the tin, and be placed in contact with a hot part of the 
oven to brown. 

"When thoroughly baked, lay the loaves on a cloth in 
front of an open window, and slightly oil the top of each. 
The bread should not be packed away until thoroughly 
cold. It should not be eaten hot, especially if butter is 
used with it. The hot bread forms into doughy pellets, 
which are difficult of digestion ; and the addition of butter, 
which melts and covers the food portions, hinders the ac- 
tion of the digestive juices UDon them. 

ZWIEBACK 

Cut bread that is at least thirty-six hours old into 
rather thick slices, and dry it in a cooling oven, the sun- 
shine, or wind. Put it in an oven of sufficient heat to 
brown it through and through. It is best eaten dry, but 
may be moistened and covered with fruit sauce, milk gravy, 
or any dressing desired. 

CROUTONS 

Cut sliced stale bread into cubes. Dry and toast to a 
nice brown, to use in soups. 

12— Cook Book 



174 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

SALT RISING BREAD 

Early in the morning sterilize a pitcher and a spoon; 
put into the pitcher one pint of boiled water to cool by 
standing until it lowers to 120 degrees F. Stir into it 
flour sufficient to make a stiff batter, having added one 
fourth of a teaspoonful of salt and one half of a teaspoonful 
of sugar. Cover with a clean napkin, and place on a 
saucer in a crock of water, and keep at 120 degrees F. 
It will be light in six or seven hours. Pour it into a warm 
crock, rinse the pitcher with a cup of warm water, as warm 
as 120 degrees F., and add to the rising. ("Emptyings" 
is the old-fashioned name.) In a warm place, mix in 
warm white flour to make a dough stiff enough to clear the 
board, form into a loaf, and place in the baking tin; put 
to rise at a temperature of 120 degrees F., until twice its 
original size, and bake one hour in a rather moderate oven. 



COMMUNION BREAD 

Flour, 3 cups. 

Cream, i^ cup. 

Salt. 

Water, about % cup. 

Add salt and cream to the white flour, and rub in well ; 
add enough water to make a stiff dough. Knead until 
smooth, then roll out with a rolling pin to the desired thick- 
ness. Cut into pieces of convenient size for handling, and 
place on pans on which they are to be baked. With a pie 
marker divide them into about half-inch squares. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 



BAKEEY AND BEEAKPAST DISHES I75 

UNPBRMENTED BREAD 

Sticks, Rolls, or Beaten Biscuits 

Pastry flour, 1 quart. 

Oil, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Water, about % cup. 

Add the oil and salt to the flour, and rub well; then 
add enough water to make stiff dough. Grind in a vege- 
table mill, using a coarse die. Roll out on the molding 
board to the thickness of a lead pencil, and cut in strips 
by using a pie marker (a scalloped wooden or metal wheel 
about the size of a twenty-five cent piece attached to a 
short wooden handle ; a cut of this is represented elsewhere 
in this book). If rolls are desired, have the dough of 
double thickness, cut in strips, about half an inch square, 
and roll with the hands until round. These are usually 
served about three inches long. Beaten biscuits are made 
by rolling the dough out in a large roll about one and one 
half inches thick, and cutting transversely about one inch 
thick; round out the edges, and make a hole in the center 
by forcing the thumb and finger together while the dough 
is held between them. 

CORN GEMS 

Corn, 1 can. 

Bread crumbs, li/^ cups. 

Milk, 3 cups. 

Eggs, 6. 



176 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Soak the bread crumbs for a few minutes; add the 
salt, the ground corn, and the yolks of the eggs; beat 
well, fold in the beaten whites, and bake in hot irons. 

GLUTEN GEMS 

Milk, 3 cups. 

Gluten meal, 1 2-3 cups. 

Eggs, 4. 

Salt. 

Beat the egg yolks, salt, and milk together until foam- 
ing; gradually add the gluten meal, beating all the time; 
lastly add the beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in hot 
irons. 

EICE GEMS 

Cooked rice, 2 cups. 
Flour, 1/^ cup. 
Milk, 1/2 cup. 
Eggs, 3. 
Salt. 

Beat the egg yolks, add the milk, and beat until foamy. 
Add the rice and flour, which have been previously mixed ; 
and lastly fold in the beaten egg whites. Bake in hot 
irons. Only rice that has been so cooked that each grain 
is separate and distinct from each other should be used 
in this preparation. 

GEMS OR PUFFS (PLAIN) 

Milk, 11/^ cups. 

Salt. 

Cooking oil, 1 tablespoon, if desired. 

Egg, 1. 

Sifted flour, about 2 cups. 



BAKEEY AND BREAKFAST DISHES 177 

Break the egg into the milk, add salt, and beat thor- 
oughly. Beat into this enough sifted flour to make a batter 
that will pile slightly when poured. Bake in hot greased 
gem irons in a brisk oven. A tablespoonful of cooking oil 
may be added to the milk if a richer batter is desired. 

CORN-MEAL GEMS 

Make same as plain gems, but use one fourth corn-meal 
and a little sugar. 

GRAHAM FRUIT GEMS 

Graham flour, li^ cups. 
Milk, 11/2 cups. 
Egg, 1. 

Gluten, 1/4 cup. 
Seedless raisins, ^ cup. 

Beat egg well, add milk, and beat again, gradually add- 
ing the flour ; mix the seedless raisins with the gluten, and 
beat in; bake in hot irons. 

POPOVERS 

Flour, 2 cups. 

Milk, 1% cups. 

Butter. 

Salt, Yz level teaspoon. 

Eggs, 3. 

Mix the salt and flour, and pour on slowly enough of 
the milk to make a smooth batter; add the eggs, one at a 
time, beating well, and gradually the remaining milk. 
Beat vigorously for a few minutes, then turn at once into 



178 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

hot, well-buttered gem pans, filling them about half full. 
iBake in rather hot oven, from twenty to thirty minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT AND GRAHAM GEMS 

Use one fourth to one third whole wheat or graham 
flour, and proceed as for plain gems. 

GRANOSE PUFFS 

Eggs, 4. 

Salt. 

Sugar, ^4: cup. 

Granose flakes, 4 cups. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar until light, 
then add the salt and two cups of granose flakes. Mix 
thoroughly, and add half of the stiffly beaten whites of 
the eggs, then two more cups granose flakes, and lastly the 
rest of the whites. Drop into an oiled pan or into round 
gem irons, filling them heaping full, and bake a light 
brown. They may be iced, and a little shredded coconut 
sprinkled on top. 

COCONUT CRISPS 

Shredded coconut, % cup. 
Flour, about 4 cups. 
Cream, 2 cups. 
Sugar, 1^ cup. 
Salt. 

Add the salt and the coconut to the cream, and then 
sufficient fiour to make a stiff dough. Roll out, and cut in 
desired shapes with a pie marker. Perforate with a fork, 
and bake. 



BAKERY AND BEEAKFAST DISHES 179 

CORN-MEAL ROLLS 

Corn-meal mush, 21/2 cups. 
White flour, about 3 cups. 
Cream, I/2 cup. 
Salt. 

To well-cooked corn-meal mush add the cream and salt, 
and the three cups of flour, or enough to make a stiff 
dough. Knead well, and form into sticks, rolls, or beaten 
biscuits, and bake. 

POTATO ROLLS 

Potatoes, mashed, 2 cups. 
Cream, y^ cup. 
Flour. 
Salt. 

To the mashed potatoes add the salt, cream, and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough. Form in the shape of sticks, 
rolls, or beaten biscuits, as desired. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

Yellow corn-meal, 1 cup. 

White flour, % cup. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 4. 

Graham flour, 1 cup. 

New Orleans molasses (good), % cup. 

Milk, about 3 cups. 

Mix the meal, flour, molasses, and milk; separate the 
eggs, and mix the yolks with the other ingredients. Beat 
the whites very stiff, and fold into the mixture, which 
should not be thick. Put this in a covered dish immedi- 
ately, and steam for three or four hours. 



180 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

RICE WAFFLES 

Rice flour, 1 cup. 
Sweet cream, 1 cup. 
Eggs, 6. 

Cooking oil, 3 tablespoons. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Rub the oil into the flour thoroughly. Mix the salt, 
sugar, cream, and yolks together, and add to the flour. 
Fold the whites of the eggs in last. Bake in oiled waffle 
irons four minutes. Serve hot. 

CORN FLAKE DROP CAKES 

Eggs, 3. 

Salt. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Coconut, % cup. 

Corn flakes, 14 package. 

Cream the eggs ; add three tablespoonf uls of hot water ; 
beat well ; add sugar, and beat again ; then put in the corn 
flakes and a small portion of shredded coconut; drop on 
hot greased pans, and bake. 

VEGETARIAN HOT CAKES 

Bread crumbs, 4 cups. 
Flour, 1 cup. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Sugar as desired. 
Milk. 
Eggs, 5. 



BAKEBY AND BEEAKFAST DISHES 181 

Mix thoroughly together the bread crumbs, flour, salt, 
and sugar. Add sufficient milk, heated to 140 degrees or 
150 degrees, to make a thick pour batter; and into this 
beat the yolks of the eggs. Add the stiffly beaten whites, 
and bake on a soapstone griddle. Be careful not to have 
the milk scalding hot, as hot milk renders cakes soft and 
sticky. 

GREEN CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

Corn, 1 can. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

White corn-meal, 3 tablespoons. 

Salt, 14 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 4. 

Flour, y^ cup. 

Mix thoroughly, and bake on a soapstone griddle. 



CORN BREAD WITHOUT BAKING POWDER, NO. 1 

Corn-meal, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 4. 

Salt. 

Boiling milk, 3 cups. 

Butter, size of egg. 

Put the meal into the mixing bowl, put in the butter 
and salt, pour the hot milk over all, and stir well. Let 
cool, and if too stiff, add a little cold milk. Break the eggs, 
and separate them ; add the yolks to the meal, and beat five 
minutes. Beat the whites, and add them to the batter. 
Have ready a hot oiled baking pan, and turn in the batter. 
Bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. 



182 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

CORN BREAD WITHOUT BAKING POWDER, NO. 2 

Corn-meal, 2 cups. 
Flour, 1 cup. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Sugar, 14 cup. 
Boiling water. 
Eggs, 6. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix together the meal, flour, salt, and sugar; add suf- 
ficient boiling water to make a stiff dough; let cool; stir 
in the butter, then the beaten yolks, and lastly the stiffly 
beaten whites. 

CORN BREAD NO. 3 

Sponge, 3 cups. 

Butter, 1 rounded tablespoon. 

Corn-meal. 

Flour. 

Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 3 heaped tablespoons. 

Take three cups of the sponge as set for making wheat 
bread, measured when light, ready to mix up stiff. Add 
the sugar, eggs, and butter. To this add a mixture of two 
thirds corn-meal and one third flour until it is as stiff 
as will stir conveniently (if made too stiff, the bread will 
be dry; if not stiff enough, it will be sticky). Put about 
half an inch deep in greased pans, let rise till nearly an 
inch deep, and bake in a moderate oven. It may be made 
into deeper loaves, but they are not likely to be so sat- 
isfactory. 



BAKBEY AND BEEAKFAST DISHES 183 

HOE CAKE 

Corn-meal, 2 cups. 
Water or milk, about 3 cups. 
Butter, melted, 1 tablespoon. 
Salt and sugar as desired. 

Mix the corn-meal with a little salt, and sugar if de- 
sired; scald with sufficient water or milk to make a stiff 
batter, but soft enough to spread easily with a knife. A 
tablespoonful of melted butter may be added if desired. 
Spread about one half inch thick or less on a baking sheet 
or pan, and bake slowly till crisp clear through. If the 
cake bakes fast on the bottom, it may be turned over so 
that both sides will be evenly baked. 




CEREALS 



Grains may be considered perfect food in themselves, 
as they contain all the food elements in nearly right pro- 
portions. Eice and corn are exceptions to this, the starch 
in the first and the protein in the latter being in excess. 

In cooking grains in the form of porridges, they should 
be introduced into rapidly boiling water, beating with a 
batter whip so that the grains may be thoroughly mixed 
with the water and be free from lumps. In cooking coarse 
grains, as cracked wheat, pearl barley, hominy, etc., keep 
them boiling, stirring occasionally until the grain does not 
sink to the bottom, but hangs suspended in the water. 
If the inner part of a double boiler has been used, it may 
then be set into the outer boiler, which should be placed 
on the range where the water will boil rapidly. Eeplenish 
the water in the outside boiler from time to time with 
boiling water. 

The cooking should be continuous; and the length of 
time varies according to the varying proportion of gluten 
in the grain. The larger the percentage of starch, the 
shorter the time required in cooking. Grains combine 
nicely with fruits, and may be cooked or served with either 
fruit or fruit juices. 

OATMEAL 

Oatmeal, 1 cup. 
Water, 1 quart. 
(184) 



CEREALS 185 

Put the water into a double boiler, place on the range, 
and when boiling add the oatmeal. Boil until it thickens 
and finish in a double boiler. Cook five hours. 

ROLLED OATS 

Rolled oats, li/^ cups. 
Water, 1 quart. 

Put the water into a double boiler, place on the range, 
and when boiling add the rolled oats. Boil until it thickens, 
and finish in a double boiler. Cook four hours. 

CRACKED WHEAT 

Water, 4 cups. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Cracked wheat, 1 cup. 

Put the water into the inner double boiler, place on 
the range, and when boiling add salt and cracked wheat. 
Boil rapidly until the grains do not sink when the dish is 
lifted from the range. Place in the outer boiler, and cook 
constantly for four or five hours. 

RICE, WESTERN STYLE 

Rice, 1 cup. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash the rice, add two or three quarts of boiling water, 
salt, and boil till tender, stirring once or twice to prevent 
sticking. Drain off all the water through a colander, and 
pour over the rice first cold and then hot water sufficient 
to wash off the starchy water and separate the grains. 
Leave in the colander, and set into another pan, so that 



186 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

the bottom of the colander will not touch. Cover, and 
place in the oven a few minutes. 

KICE WITH RAISINS 

Rice, 1 cup. 
Raisins, seeded, ^ cup. 
Salt, % teaspoon. 
Water, 2 cups. 

Put in an enameled pan, cover, and steam one hour. 

BROWNED RICE 

Rice may be browned in the oven until it is a straw- 
color; then add three cups of hot water to one of rice, 
salt to taste, boil for five minutes, and finish cooking in 
a double boiler. Care must be taken in browning that it 
does not scorch or get too brown. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH 

Salted water, 4 cups. 
Corn-meal, 1 cup. 

Into the salted water stir the corn-meal, continuing to 
stir till it begins to thicken; then cook three or four hours 
in a double boiler. 

GRAHAM PORRIDGE 

Graham flour, 1 cup. 
Boiling water, salted, 3 cups. 

Stir the flour into boiling water, and beat till perfectly 
smooth; set in a double boiler, or in another vessel con- 
taining boiling water, and cook one hour. 



CEEEALS 187 

PEARL BARLEY 

Pearl barley, well washed, 1 cup. 
Water, 5 cups. 

Put cold water into inner boiler, and add pearl barley. 
Heat slowly on stove, boil thirty minutes, then cook in 
double boiler about six hours. 

FARINA 

Milk or water, 6 cups. 
Farina, 1 cup. 
Salt. 

Put the water into the inner part of a double boiler, 
place on the range, and when boiling add salt and farina. 
Let it boil for two or three minutes, stirring all the time. 
Then place in a double boiler, and cook one hour. If milk 
is used, it should first be simmered or scalded in a double 
boiler, and then placed on the range, and the milk will 
boil almost immediately. In this way the milk will not be 
so liable to scorch as if it was put on the range at first. 
This rule will apply to all grains cooked with milk. 

BROWNED MUSH 

Cook farina, cream of wheat, or corn-meal as for thick 
mush, until done; pour one and one half inches thick into 
greased bread tins, and allow to cool at least ten hours. 
Empty out on a board, and cut m slices about one half 
inch thick. Roll in bread crumbs, place in a greased pan, 
sprinkle with oil or melted butter, and bake. Serve with 
maple sirup. 



188 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

BROWNED KORNLBT 

"Water, I1/2 quarts. 

Corn-meal, 1% cups. 

Salt. 

Sage. 

Corn, 1 can. 

Croutons, 1 cup. 

Put the salt and the sage in the water, and bring to a 
boil; add the corn-meal as for mush. When well set, 
place in the outer boiler, and cook thoroughly. When well 
cooked, add the corn, two thirds of which has first been 
ground in a vegetable mill ; next add the croutons. Stir in 
well, and pour into an oiled pan to cool. When thoroughly 
cool, cut into slices, roll in bread crumbs, lay in a greased 
pan, and brown in oven. Serve with sirup. 

GRAHAM PORRIDGE WITH DATES 

Set as for plain graham porridge; after it has cooked 
one half hour, stir in the desired quantity of washed, 
seeded, chopped dates; let it cook half an hour longer, 
and serve. 

GLUTEN-6RAN0LA MUSH 

Boiling milk or water, 1 quart. 
Mixed gluten and granola, I14 pints. 

Cook fifteen minutes, and serve with cream. 

GLUTEN PORRIDGE 

Milk or water, 1 quart. 
Gluten meal, 2 cups. 
Salt. 



CEEEAL8 189 

Heat the liquid, add salt, and sprinkle in carefully 
the gluten meal, stirring all the time. This does not need 
to cook after it is set. Seedless or seeded raisins or chopped 
dates may he added as desired. 

GRANOLA PORRIDGE 

Granola or fruit nuts, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 pint. 

Salt. 

Heat the milk, add the salt and granola, cook until set, 
and serve. 

HOMINY OR HULLED CORN 

Select sound, bright ears of corn, rejecting any portion 
which may have small or ill-formed kernels. Shell enough 
to fill a quart cup, blow out the chaif, and put the corn 
into two quarts of cold water, in which has been dissolved 
one level teaspoonful of concentrated lye. If wood ashes 
are at hand, lye made from them will answer the pur- 
pose as well; or baking soda may be used. More of the 
soda than of the lye is required. Cook vigorously until, if 
pressed between the thumb and finger, the hull will readily 
slip off. Immediately remove the corn into cold water. 
Rub thoroughly in several waters, that all the hulls may 
be removed. Let it stand overnight in plenty of water. 
Pour off most of the water, and rub the corn in the hands 
to remove any hulls remaining. Rinse, and put into cold 
water. Cook rather slowly until tender. Salt to taste. 
Do not serve until the salt has penetrated each kernel. 
If during the cooking more water is needed, let it be added 

13— Cook Book 



190 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

hot. Corn thus prepared is excellent eaten plain, but the 
taste of the consumer will decide what he will use for sauce. 

FRUIT DRESSING FOR CEREALS 

Such fruit juices as strawberry, blackberry, grape, blue- 
berry, or pineapple, may be heated to boiling, thickened 
with corn-starch, and served as a substitute for milk or 
cream on flakes or other cereals. 




i 



i 

TOASTS 



i 



Toasts are uniformly and properly regarded as a break- 
fast dish, and when properly prepared are wholesome, 
nutritious, and appetizing, and far more conducive to 
health than the fried mushes and griddle cakes with which 
so many are prone to appease their appetites. 

Zwieback should be used as the foundation of all toasts, 
although ordinary toasted bread can be used. In toasting 
bread, do not expose it to such fierce heat that the bread 
will be burned or singed. Singed bread is not toasted 
bread. It should be toasted as far through as possible, 
and should be crisp and brittle, not hard. In using zwie- 
back for toast, it may be moistened with hot milk if for 
cream, gravy, or egg toast ; or with hot salted water if for 
fruit. In either case, the toast should be dipped quickly 
in and out again, so as not to absorb too much liquid and 
become mushy. Under this head a few kinds of toast 
will be given, inexpensive and otherwise. "While it is not 
an exhaustive list, it will include sufficient to suggest others 
equally good. 

ZWIEBACK 

For directions for preparation of zwieback, see chapter 
on bakery and breakfast dishes. 

BOSTON CREAM TOAST 
Toast two slices of bread, trim, and cut in two length- 
wise, making four pieces. Place these 'evenly on top of 

(191) 



192 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

one another, and cut again cornerwise, into long triangular 
pieces. Arrange artistically on a platter, and serve with 
cream sauce. 

CREAM TOAST 

Cream, 6 cups. 

Zwieback. 

Milk, 

Heat the cream to boiling, dip slices of zwieback into 
hot milk for an instant, place on saucers, pour hot cream 
over, and serve. 

CEEAM GRAVY TOAST 

Rich milk, 1 quart. 
Flour, 3 teaspoons. 
Salt. 

Heat the milk, and thicken with flour rubbed smooth in 
a little cold milk; serve on moistened zwieback. 



MILK TOAST 

Milk, 6 cups. 

Flour, 1 heaped teaspoon. 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Toasted bread or zwieback. 

Heat the milk and butter in a saucepan over the fire; 
when boiling, add salt and flour moistened with a little 
milk. Let boil, remove from the fire, and dip into this 
slices of toasted bread or zwieback. Pour what remains 
over the toast, cover, and send to the tablKiot. 



TOASTS 193 

NUN'S TOAST 

Eggs, hard-boiled. 
Parsley, minced. 
Cream gravy. 

Mince the hard-boiled eggs and parsley, add to the 
cream gravy, and pour over moistened pieces of zwieback. 

SNOWPLAKE TOAST 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Egg whites, 2. 
Flour, 2 teaspoons. 
Salt. 

Heat the milk, and thicken with the flour ; salt to taste, 
and pour over the beaten whites of the eggs; serve on 
moistened zwieback. 

AMERICAN OR FRENCH TOAST 

Eggs, 3. 
Salt. 
Butter. 
Milk, 3 cups. 
Bread. 

Beat the eggs thoroughly, and add the milk and a little 
salt. Slice light bread, and dip into the mixture, allow- 
ing each slice to absorb some of the milk. Then brown 
on a hot buttered griddle or thick-bottomed frying pan, 
and serve hot with jelly. 

TOMATO TOAST 

Dress moistened toast with tomato sauce as given under 
sauces; or use strained tomatoes thickened with flour or 
corn-starch. 



194 VEaETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

CEEAM OF TOMATO TOAST 

Prepare dressing as directed for cream of tomato sauce, 
and serve on fresh toasted zwieback. 

PEOTOSE TOAST 

Protose, % cup. 
Oil, 4 tablespoons. 
Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Hot water, 2 cups. 
Salt. 

Brown the flour in the oil; add hot water, protose 
minced fine, and salt. Cook slowly for ten minutes. 

NUTTOLENB TOAST 

Nuttolene, % pound. 
Cream gravy, 1 quart. 
Parsley, 1 teaspoon. 

Press the nuttolene through a sieve, and add with the 
minced parsley to the cream gravy. 

CREAM GRAVY PROTOSE TOAST 
Prepare as for nuttolene toast, using protose instead of 
nuttolene. 

PEA TOAST 

Peas, 1 cup. 
Cream, 2 cups. 
Flour. 
Salt. 

Press the peas through a colander, add cream and 
salt, heat, and thicken; add to moistened zwieback. 



TOASTS 195 

EGG ON TOAST 

Prepare soft poached or scrambled eggs, and serve on 
cream toast. 

BERRY TOAST 

Any canned fruit, as strawberries, blackberries, blue- 
berries, etc., may be used for toasts. Strain off the juice, 
boil, and thicken with corn-starch to the consistency of 
cream. Stir in the berries, and reheat till the berries are 
well heated through. Serve as other fruit toasts. 




OMELET SOUFFLE 

Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff, salt, and add 
the yolks, beating just enough to mix the yolks with the 
whites. Turn into a hot oiled omelet pan, put in a medium 
hot oven, and bake till done, or to a rich brown. Serve 
quickly on being removed from the oven. 

SWEET OMELET SOUFFLE 

Eggs, 4. 

Powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Flavoring. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs as light as possible, and 
add the sugar and a few drops of flavoring. Beat the 
whites until you can turn the plate bottom side up with- 
out their falling. Pour the beaten whites and yolks to- 
gether, and mix thoroughly. Put into an oiled baking dish, 
and dust with powdered sugar. Bake in a moderate oven 
tiU a golden brown. Serve at once. 



PLAIN FRENCH OMELET 

Break the eggs into a dish, whip lightly with an egg 
whip or fork, turn into a hot oiled skillet, and place on 
range. As soon as they begin to set, lift the edges of the 
omelet, so that the uncooked part can run under next to 
the bottom of the skillet. When light brown, turn, and 
(196) 



EGGS 197 

cook till light brown on the other side. Fold about one 
third over with knife, then toss out on hot platter, so that 
the one third fold will be underneath. Garnish with pars- 
ley or watercress. Serve at once. 

PLAIN OMELET 

Eggs, 4. 

Salt. 

Water, milk, or cream, 4 tablespoons. 

Add the liquid and the salt to the eggs, beat lightly, 
and pour enough of this to make one omelet, into a hot, 
greased omelet pan ; cook on hot stove ; run knife or spatula 
under first one side, and then another, of the omelet, at 
the same time tilting the pan to the side where the knife 
is inserted, thus allowing the uncooked portion to run 
underneath. Double one third part over, invert on hot 
plate, and serve. 

PROTOSE OMELET 

Protose, y<i a thin slice. 
Eggs, 2. 

Parsley, minced. 
Cooking oil. 

Mince the protose fine ; beat the yolks of the ' eggs a 
little, and stir the minced protose into them. Beat the 
whites into a froth, not stiff, and stir into the protose; 
add a little minced parsley. Put a little oil into an omelet 
pan, and when hot pour in the mixture. Cook a few min- 
utes. Insert a knife between the omelet and the pan, and 
with a sudden turn of the hand fold the omelet in two. 
Cook in a hot oven two or three seconds. Serve hot. 



198 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

GLUTEN OMELET 

Same as plain omelet, adding one tablespoonful of 
gluten to eggs and milk before beating. Serve at once 
on a hot platter. 

RICE OMELET 

Same as plain omelet, only adding one tablespoonful 
of cooked rice to eggs and milk before beating. Serve on a 
hot platter at once. 

APPLE OMELET 

Same as plain omelet. Serve with a tablespoonful of 
well-seasoned apple sauce, mixed with an equal amount of 
beaten white of egg on side of platter. 

OMELET WITH TOMATO 

Prepare a plain omelet; and when ready to fold, put 
a layer of baked ripe tomatoes on one half, and fold 
the other half over it. Serve with or without tomato 
gravy, as preferred. 

ONION OMELET 

Make as for plain omelet, placing one dessert-spoonful 
of lightly braized onion on the omelet just before folding. 
Serve on a hot platter at once. 

GREEN PEA OMELET 

Make as for plain omelet, folding one tablespoonful of 
French peas with a little thick cream sauce over them. 
Serve at once on a hot platter. 



EGGS 199 



ASPAEAGUS OMELET 

Make as for plain omelet, folding in one tablespoonful 
of asparagus tips, which have been nicely seasoned. Serve 
on hot platter at once. 

OMELETS 

Onions, peas, lentils, granose, gluten, rice, nuts, minced 
olives, etc., may be used in omelets. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH SUGAR CORN 

Prepare as for scrambled eggs with protose, using nice, 
tender corn in place of protose. Salt, and serve at once 
on hot platters. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH PROTOSE 

Cream or milk, 1 tablespoon (for one person). 

Fresh eggs, 2. 

Protose, minced, 1 tablespoon. 

Into an oiled skillet containing one tablespoonful of 
cream or milk, break the eggs, slightly whipping them with 
an egg whip or spoon; then add protose. Stir to prevent 
sticking to the bottom, also to mix thoroughly the egg with 
the protose. Salt; scramble (soft, medium, or hard) as 
desired. Serve at once on hot platters. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH PARSLEY 

Prepare as for scrambled eggs with protose, omitting 
protose and substituting minced parsley. 



200 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

POACHED EGGS 
Take fresh eggs, as only fresh eggs poach nicely; break 
them into a pan of hot water, almost boiling. Let the pan 
set on the range where it will not boil ; poach as desired, — 
soft, two minutes; medium, three minutes; hard, five min- 
utes. Serve on a platter; garnish with watercress or 
parsley. Serve while very hot. 

POACHED EGGS ON 6RAN0SE 

Heat granose in the oven a few minutes; put a few 
spoonfuls on a plate, and place poached eggs on top. 

POACHED EGGS ON TOAST 

Serve poached eggs on light brown slices of zwieback, 
or fresh toast if preferred, that has been slightly moistened, 
not soaked, with hot cream, milk, or water. 

CURDLED EGGS 

Bring a kettle of water to boiling point, set on back 
of range for two minutes, then drop in eggs, and leave 
for eight minutes. Serve in cups. 

JELLIED EGGS 
Cook the same as curdled eggs, leaving in water fifteen 
minutes instead of eight. 

FLOATED EGGS 
Take two fresh eggs ; separate whites from yolks, being 
careful not to break yolks; place them in a dish of boil- 
ing water, and cook till set as desired,^ two minutes for 
medium, four minutes for hard. Meantime beat the whites 



EGGS 201 

very stiff, mold them in a soup bowl, and float the molds 
on boiling water two or three minutes till nicely set. Then 
place them on a large platter, place a yolk in the center 
of each, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

BAKED EGGS IN TOMATO CASES 

From ripe, medium-sized tomatoes remove the stems; 
and with a sharp paring knife or spoon remove sufficient 
of the centers to incase an egg nicely in each tomato. 
Place them in an oiled granite baking pan, break an egg 
into each one, salt, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and add 
a small piece of butter. Set in a moderate oven, and bake 
till the eggs are medium done. Serve at once. 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Grease the shirr pans, and drop the eggs in; sprinkle 
with salt, and bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are 
set. These may be seasoned with butter or grated onion 
if desired. Small granite or porcelain pans about half 
an inch deep are to be obtained in any first-class hard- 
ware store. These are made expressly for shirring eggs. 

TOMATO SHIRRED EGGS 

Prepare as for plain shirred eggs, adding a small por- 
tion of thin tomato sauce before cooking. 

CREAM SHIRRED EGGS 

Prepare eggs as for shirring, pour about one tablespoon- 
ful of rich cream over them, salt, set in oven, and bake 
as desired. Serve at once. 



WHIPPED CREAM 

That satisfactory results may be obtained, the cream 
to be whipped must be quite rich. Cool the cream to a tem- 
perature of 64 degrees or less, and beat with a batter whip 
or a dover egg beater until of the desired consistency. 
This may be flavored and sweetened as desired. Care 
should be exercised not to beat too long, or the butter 
may begin to separate. 

CO^TTAGE CHEESE 

Cheese made from sour milk contains much of the 
protein element, and is preferable to the cheese of com- 
merce. 

Many fail signally in making this article, and lose its 
nutritive value, and also spoil its palatableness. The milk 
should be allowed to thicken, and then be skimmed be- 
fore any attempt is made to heat it. Heat it slowly — 
preferably in hot water or in a moderate oven. The milk 
should not be stirred while cooking, but an advantage is 
gained by passing a knife through it so as to cut it in 
squares, just as the curd begins to form. This helps to 
give uniformity of texture, which is more pleasing than 
to have some parts hard and others soft. 

A short method is to pour boiling water into the clab- 
bered milk, with gentle stirring, until the curd forms and 
separates from the watery whey. Rapid cooking is likely 
(202) 



DAIKY DISHES 203 

to cause lumps and a stringiness not altogether agreeable. 
As soon as well curded, it should be poured into a strong 
but loose cloth to drain without pressure. Overnight is 
none too long for it to remain quiescent. It may then have 
added to it a portion of salt, and as much sweet cream or 
milk or sour cream as will be required to make it of the 
desired consistency. Should there be any lack of smooth- 
ness, the cheese will be vastly improved by passing through 
a colander or an ordinary meat mill. 

Various seasonings may be added, as minced onion, 
parsley, or other herbs, and the whole formed into balls or 
other shapes. 

Served with a garnish of lettuce or other green, it gives 
a pleasing variety. Used in place of common cheese with 
macaroni, it is more wholesome than that article. 

Sweet milk may "be readily curded by the addition of 
lemon juice. One cup stirred into a gallon of warm milk 
will usually gather all the curd. If the whey is white and 
milky, add a little more juice, and more curd will form. 

BUTTERMILK CHEESE 

Buttermilk, 2 quarts. 
Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Add the lemon juice to the buttermilk, and set in 
warm water, or in a warm place, until it wheys off. Then 
drain in a cloth, and proceed as for other cheese. 

STERILIZED MILK 

Milk is so liable to be infected with disease germs, that 
it is much the safest plan to sterilize it before using. Heat 



204 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

the water in an outer boiler to the boiling point, and set 
into it the inner boiler containing the milk, and cook over 
a hot fire until the albumen rises to the top in the form of 
little bubbles. Remove, pour into shallow pans, and cool 
rapidly. If, when cool, it is poured from one dish to an- 
other for a few minutes, it will be likely to have less of 
the cooked taste. Some authorities favor cooking the milk 
for thirty minutes. Be that as it may, the milk should be 
heated, and cooled quickly. 

RENNET BLANC-MANGE 

Milk, 1 quart. 

Rennet tablet, %. 

Egg whites, 2. 

Powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Currant jelly, 4 tablespoons. 

Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add the sugar, and beat 
again, then gradually beat into it the jelly. Dissolve the 
sugar in the milk, which should be at blood heat. Flavor 
to taste, and add the rennet, which should be previously 
dissolved in a tablespoonful of water. Stir quickly, pour 
into a dish, and when firm put in a cool place. Before 
serving, cover with a meringue. 

JUNKET 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Rennet tablet, 1. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Dissolve the sugar in the milk, which should be about 
blood heat, or 100 degrees. Pour the milk into the dish 



DAIEY DISHES 205 

from which it is to be served, and add one rennet tablet 
dissolved in a small quantity of water, stirring quickly 
for about a half minute. Let it stand until it thickens, 
which it will do in five to ten minutes. Then set in a 
cold place until time to serve. 

Rennet tablets may be purchased at any drug-store. 

YOGURT NO. 1 

Milk, 1 quart. 
Yogurt tablets, 6. 

Bring the milk to scalding heat, and cook for ten min- 
utes in a double boiler. Cool to a temperature of 106 de- 
grees, and add the yogurt tablets which have been mashed 
fine. Set in a warm place, cover and wrap well, and allow 
to stand from eight to twelve hours, or until it has thick- 
ened. Keep in a cool place. 

For a second batch use one tablespoonful of the yogurt 
instead of the tablets. 

YOGURT NO. 2 

Lactone tablet, 1. 
Skimmed milk, 1 quart. 

Procure lactone tablets manufactured, by Parke Davis 
& Co., and proceed as for yogurt No. 1. 

LEBBEN 

Milk, 31/2 pints. 
Yeast, 3 tablespoons. 

Heat one cup of rich milk to 90 degrees; into this put 
three tablespoonf uls of home-made or brewers ' yeast, cover, 

14:— Cook Book 



206 



VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 



and let stand in a warm place twelve hours. At the end 
of that time, it will be thick like clabber. Beat well with 
an egg beater until of the consistency of cream. Heat 
a pint of milk to 90 degrees, add four tablespoonfuls of 
this mixture, cover, and set in a warm place twelve hours ; 
then beat well. Do this twice more, always discarding all 
but what you add to the milk. You are now ready to make 
the lebben by using four tablespoonfuls of this starter to 
a pint of milk, proceeding as for the starter. 




LIQUID FOODS 



i 



BARLEY BROTH 

Wash barley well, and start to cook in cold water in 
the proportion of about one of barley to ten of water. Boil 
slowly for several hours, seasoning with salt an hour or 
so before it is done. Strain off the broth, and season with 
cream if desired. 

GRAHAM GRUEL 

"Water, l^^ quarts. 

Graham flour, sifted, 2-3 cup. 

Salt. 

Cream or milk if desired. 

Heat the water to boiling, add the salt, and then 
sprinkle in slowly the flour, stirring all the time with a 
batter whip. Boil until well set, then cook in a double 
boiler for one hour. Add cream or milk if desired. 

RICE GRUEL 

"Water, 1 quart. 

Rice, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Cream or milk, 1 pint. 

Add the salt to the water, and heat to boiling; wash 
the rice in warm water, and add to the boiling water ; boil 
until the rice is very tender, pass through a colander, add 
cream, reheat, and serve. 

(207) 



208 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

COEN-MBAL GRUEL 

Corn-meal, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, 1 quart. 

Salt. 

Heat the milk to boiling, and sprinkle in the corn-meal, 
stirring meanwhile with a batter whip ; when well set, place 
in an outer boiler, and cook thoroughly. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

This gruel may be prepared as directed for corn-meal 
gruel, using water instead of milk; or oatmeal mush that 
has been sufficiently cooked, may be thinned, stewed for 
a few minutes, and then strained and served. 

GLUTEN MEAL 

Sanitarium gluten meal, i/^ cup. 

Milk or water, 1 pint. 

Salt. 

Salt the boiling liquid, and stir in carefully the meal. 
A little peanut butter rubbed smooth may be added if de- 
sired. 



SANDWICHES 



NUT CERO SANDWICHES 

Nut cero, i/^ pound. 

Fresh tomatoes, 2. 

Salt. 

Lettuce. 

Bread. 

Press the nut cero through a fine colander; wash firm 
tomatoes, slice into the colander, and press the pulp through 
into the nut cero; add salt, and sprinkle of celery salt if 
desired; spread on thin sliced bread, and serve with a 
lettuce leaf in each sandwich. 

NUTTOLENE OR NUT LOAF SANDWICHES 

Prepare nuttolene as for nuttolene cheese, and spread 
on slices of thin bread; lay crisp lettuce leaves on half of 
these, invert the others on the lettuce leaves, press together, 
and cut eornerwise. 

NUT AND EGG SANDWICHES 

Prepare eggs as for scrambled eggs. While cooking, 
add an equal quantity of minced protose or nuttolene; 
cook until set and remove ; add celery salt and lemon juice 
to taste, spread on thin sliced bread, press slices together, 
and cut eornerwise in four pieces. Arrange tastily on a 
small plate on which has been laid a crisp lettuce leaf. 

(209) 



210 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

NUT AND JELLY SANDWICHES 

Very palatable sandwiches may be made by spreading 
bread with jelly, and then sprinkling it with finely chopped 
nut meats. 

PROTOSE OR NUT CERO SANDWICHES 

Spread bread with nut or dairy butter, and fill with 
protose rubbed smooth with a fork and seasoned with salt 
and lemon juice. Grated onion, celery salt, or minced 
olives may be added if desired. 

DATE SANDWICHES 

Dates, 15. 
Walnuts, y2 cup. 

Spread thin slices of bread with nut or dairy butter, 
and make a filling by grinding the dates and walnuts 
together in a vegetable mill. Seeded raisins or figs may 
be used if preferred. If the mixture is too stiff, add a 
little warm water. 

OLIVE NUT SANDWICHES 

Olives, % cup. 

Protose, 1/4 pound. 

Nuttolene, 14 pound. 

Sage. 

Onion. 

Salt. 

Lemon juice. 

Bread. 



SANDWICHES 211 

Seed the olives, and mince with the nuttolene and pro- 
tose ; add the sage, grated onion, salt, and lemon juice, and 
mix well. Proceed as for other sandwiches. 

OLIVE ALMOND SANDWICHES 

Olives, 1 cup. 
Almonds, l^ cup. 
Salt. 
Lemon juice. 

Blanch the almonds, and toast to a light brown in the 
oven; seed the olives, and grind in a vegetable mill with 
the almonds. Mix with these the salt and lemon juice, 
and proceed as for other sandwiches. 

HOT SANDWICHES 

Prepare as for ordinary sandwiches, trimming the crust 
from the edges, and serving on a platter covered with a 
hot cream or brown gravy. These sandwiches may be filled 
with Spanish rice, macaroni preparations, chowders, or 
slices of hot roast. This is a nice way of using up small 
fragments that could not well be used in any other manner. 



NUT PREPARATIONS I 



NUT BUTTER 

Nut butter can be easily made in the home; but nearly 
all the prepared nut foods on sale require expensive ma- 
chinery and a steam plant to produce, hence can not be 
made in the home. 

Peanuts and almonds are the nuts most suitable for 
making nut butter. The other varieties are difficult to 
blanch, and do not make good butter. The best variety 
of peanuts for making nut butter is the Spanish shelled. 
They are easily blanched. Eemoving the skins from the 
nuts after they are shelled is called blanching. Peanuts 
can not be blanched unless they have been thoroughly 
heated. 

To properly cook peanuts is the essential thing to pro- 
duce a healthful, palatable nut butter. This can be ac- 
complished if care is exercised. There are three ways of 
cooking them; namely, baking or roasting, boiling, and 
steaming. The baking process is the easiest way, but care 
should be used not to scorch them. Scorched or burned 
peanuts are unfit to use in any form. 

PROCESS NO. 1 

Put a layer of peanuts about one half inch deep into 
a dripping pan, and place on a perforated shelf in a mod- 
erate oven. Allow them to bake slowly for about one 
(212) 



NUT PREPARATIONS 213 

hour, until they are a light brown or straw-color. Shake 
the pan or stir the peanuts every few minutes. "When the 
kernels begin to crack and pop, they brown very quickly, 
and should be watched closely. 

A satisfactory way to cook the nuts is to fill a tight 
covered dish about two thirds full, place in the oven, and 
shake occasionally. Cooked this way, they are not so liable 
to burn, and they retain their flavor better. When they 
have cooked sufficiently, spread them out at once. When 
they have become quite cool, blanch. This can be done 
by rubbing them in the hands, or what is better, in a 
coarse bag, or with a piece of cloth with the ends folded 
together, forming a bag. Another good device is a screen 
made of coarse wire. Eub them until the skins are loose. 
The chaff can be removed by using a fan, or by pouring 
from one dish to another where the wind is blowing. Look 
the nuts over carefully, removing defective ones and 
foreign substances. 

Grind when fresh cooked, as they do not make good 
butter when left a day or two after they are cooked. 

PROCESS NO. 2 

Thoroughly heat the nuts in an oven, but do not let 
them brown. Allow them to cool, then blanch as described 
in process No. 1. Boil them from three to four hours, until 
they are tender. Drain, spread out on tins, and thoroughly 
dry them ; then grind them through a mill. 

ALMOND BUTTER 
Almond butter is more difficult to make than peanut 
butter, on account of the difficulty in removing the skins. 



214 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Dry heat does not loosen the skins of almonds as it does 
those of peanuts. To blanch almonds, soak them in boiling 
water from two to five minutes ; then the skins become loose 
and can be pinched off by pressing on the nut with thumb 
and finger; the skins will crack and the kernel pop out. 
Dry the kernels in a slow oven until they become thor- 
oughly dry and crisp, taking care not to burn them. Then 
grind them through a loosely adjusted mill. Place on tins 
or on a cloth stretched over the stove, until perfectly dry. 
Then grind in the nut butter mill tightly adjusted. 

This makes excellent butter if the almonds are first-class. 

NUT BUTTER FOR THE TABLE 

Put into a bowl one half the amount of butter required 
for the meal, and dilute with an equal quantity of water, 
adding a little at a time, beating it thoroughly with a fork 
until it is smooth and light. Enough water should be used 
to make the proper consistency to spread nicely. A wire 
whip or potato masher is an excellent utensil for mixing. 
A little salt can be added if desired. Nut butter does not 
keep long when mixed with water. 

NUT CREAM 

Peanut butter, 2 tablespoons. 
Hot water, 1 pint. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Add enough water to the peanut butter to emulsify it 
as for table use; then dilute with the remainder of water, 
add salt, set on the stove, and bring to a boil; it is then 
ready to serve. 



NUT PREPAEATIONS 215' 

CEYSTALLIZED PEANUTS 

Peanuts, 1 quart. 
Egg, 1. 
Sugar. 

Use peanuts that have been baked enough that they 
will not have a raw taste. Beat the egg slightly with two 
tablespoonfuls of water, stir well into the peanuts, and let 
stand about ten minutes in a colander ; then roll in sugar, 
and turn again into the colander, which should have rather 
large perforations ; rub out all loose sugar, spread on a pan, 
and dry slowly in a warm place. 

SALTED PEANUTS 

Prepare as for crystallized peanuts, using salt instead 
of sugar. Care should be exercised not to leave too much 
salt on the nuts. If not for immediate use, place in fruit- 
jars, and screw on the covers tight. 

TO BLANCH ALMONDS 

Remove the hard shells, and let the kernels stand in 
• boiling water until the red skins will slip off when pressed 
between the fingers. 



FRUITS AND THEIR 
PREPARATION 



It is not the intent of this chapter to exhaust the con- 
sideration of the topic of fruit and its service, but to 
drop a few suggestions that will assist the reader in vary- 
ing the bill of fare. Fruits are usually served first at break- 
fast and lunch, and last at dinner. 

Apples: plain; sauce; baked, and served with cream 
and sirup. 

Apricots: plain; sauce; sliced, and served with cream. 

Bananas : plain ; sliced or baked, and served with cream. 

Blackberries: plain; with cream; stewed. 

Cherries: plain; stewed. 

Currants, black, red, or white: plain; stewed; as salad. 
(See strawberry salad.) 

Dates: plain; puree; sometimes stewed. 

Figs: plain; sliced with cream; stewed; steamed. 

Grapes: plain; stewed; salad. 

Grapefruit: cut in halves, and sprinkle with sugar; 
served plain. 

Green gage plums : plain ; stewed. 

Huckleberries: plain; with cream. 

Melons — cantaloup, musk, and Spanish melons, and 
cassabas: cut in suitable pieces, seeds removed, filled with 
broken ice, and served. 

Nectarines: plain; sliced with cream; stewed. 

Oranges : plain ; sliced with powdered sugar. 
(216) 



FRUITS AND THEIR PREPARATION 217 

Peaches : plain ; stewed ; sliced with cream. 

Pears: plain; stewed; baked. 

Plums: plain; stewed. 

Pineapples : fresh sliced ; diced ; grated ; canned. 

Pomegranates : cut in sections and served plain ; seeded, 
crushed, and prepared as nectar. 

Prunes: fresh; stewed. 

Quinces: usually served as preserves, or stewed with 
apples. 

Raspberries, red and black: plain; with cream; stewed. 

Strawberries: plain; with cream; salad; stewed. 

APPLE SAUCE 

Much time, effort, and material may be saved by the 
following method of stewing apples: Wash the fruit, re- 
move decayed portions, cut in quarters, and remove only 
a small portion of stem and blossom ends. No harm comes 
from cooking sound cores and skins. Pass through a fine 
colander, and sweeten. If they were cooked in very little 
water, the portion remaining in the colander may be mois- 
tened, and thus a trifle more of pulp be saved. 

MAPLE APPLES 

Apples, 4. 

Maple sirup, 1 cup. 

Water, 1 cup. 

Peel and slice the apples; mix the maple sirup and the 
water, and pour over the apples; bake under cover in a 
medium oven, until tender and dark brown. 



218 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

GRAPE APPLES 

Pare and core tart apples, and boil in grape juice until 
tender; remove the apples, and boil down the juice to a 
thick sirup, and pour over the apples before serving. 

BAKED APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter, and core tart apples ; place in a bean pot 
or deep granite kettle, add sugar and water, and cover; 
set on the stove until it comes to a boil, then place in a 
medium oven, and bake slowly until tender and dark red, 

PRUNE MARMALADE 

Remove the juice from stewed prunes, force out the 
seeds, and then press through a colander with medium- 
sized perforations. 

PRUNE WHIP 

Prune marmalade, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. 

Vanilla. 

Add the yolks to prune marmalade, flavor and sweeten 
to taste, stir weU, then fold in the beaten whites of the 
eggs, reserving enough of the latter with which to gar- 
nish. Serve in glasses. 

MUSKMELONS WITH SLICED PEACHES 

Divide small muskmelons, remove seeds, and chill by 
filling with cracked ice ; when cool, fill with sliced peaches, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve. 



f'EUITS AND THEIB PEEPAEATION 219 

BAKED BANANAS 

Peel, slice lengthwise, place in granite pan, sprinkle 
with sugar, add a little hot water, and bake in a medium 
hot oven until tender. They may also be baked in their 



STEWED BERRIES 

Some make a mistake in stewing berries too long. Wash 
thoroughly, add sugar to taste, and but little water. 




ICES AND SHERBETS 



These are mostly made from water, sugar, and the 
juice of fruit. When fresh fruit is not obtainable, juices 
or pulp which have been canned may be substituted. Fruit 
jellies may be dissolved in hot water and then frozen. As 
fruits vary in sweetness, it is advisable to test the mix- 
tures before all the sugar or sirup called for in the recipe 
is added. A mixture which seems sweet enough before 
freezing, will be found to be lacking in sweetness after 
freezing. If a rich fruit ice or sherbet is desired, the 
pure fruit juice may be used without the addition of any 
water. Sherbets are practically the same as fruit ice, only 
that gelatine, egg whites, or corn-starch have been added to 
give more body to the preparation. The texture of fruit 
ice is often more or less granular and icy, more like wet 
snow. The sherbets are often so much like the cream ices, 
that it is difficult to believe that there is no cream in them. 

If the sugar is boiled with the water, a finer grained ice 
will be the result. 

There are many freezers on the market, but the one 
having a double motion is the most satisfactory. To pre- 
pare the ice, one should provide oneself with a grain sack 
and something with which to break the ice. A 2 x 4 about 
two and one half feet long, with one end prepared for a 
handle, is desirable. Or an iron pipe of the same length 
may be used. Place the ice in a sack, and hold the open 
end in the left hand while you strike with the bludg- 
eon in the right, occasionally turning the sack. When 
(220) 



ICES AND SHERBETS 221 

sufficiently beaten, empty the ice into a tight box, pick out 
the pieces too large for use, and return them to the sack. 
Better results will be obtained from finely crushed ice; if 
the pieces are too large, they are liable to dent the freezer. 

Mix the coarse salt with the crushed ice in the box, 
and from it pack the freezer. Authorities difEer in refer- 
ence to the proportion of ice and salt to be used. Some 
say one of salt to three of ice ; others one of the former to 
seven of the latter. Too much salt causes the finished 
product to be coarse-grained. It is possible to freeze a 
batch of fruit ice with ice and salt left from a former 
freezing, although it may have become somewhat liquefied ; 
so do not think it necessary to refill the freezer because 
some water is seen with the ice and salt. Freezers which 
are properly constructed have an outlet for water just 
below the level of the top of the freezing can, and not in 
the bottom as some might suppose. 

Fine salt will accomplish the desired end, but the 
coarse is cheaper and better. 

Care should be exercised to keep the bearings, gear, 
and sockets of the freezer frequently oiled. 

If only a small batch of ice is to be frozen, the freezer 
need not be packed its full depth. 

When the mixture is frozen, remove the paddle, scrape 
off the ice, cover the can, place a cork in the hole in the 
cover, and throw over all the wet sack in which the ice 
was broken. Keep in a cool place until time to serve. 

To produce a soft, creamy texture, the freezer should be 
turned continually and rapidly until the mixture is hard. 

Always turn the freezer to the right. If turned to the 
left, the contents which lie nearest the outside of the 

15— Cook Book 



222 VEGBTAEIAN COOK BOOK 

freezing can will freeze and adhere to the side of the can, 
and thus prevent turning it in the right direction. Keep 
the paddle moving. If allowed to stand, the freezer will 
set, and make further turning impossible. Under such 
conditions, in an effort to turn the paddle, some part of 
the freezer may break. If for any reason the freezer does 
become set, do not bring too much strain to bear on it, but 
take out the can, and set in a kettle of hot water for ten 
seconds, and then repack, and it will be found that it 
will turn readily. 

These frozen preparations will be found much improved 
if allowed to stand for an hour or so after freezing. This 
is called curing. 

Fruit ice or sherbet can be made if no other utensils 
than a quart cup and a dover egg beater are at hand. Pack 
the cup in ice and salt as usual, and scrape from the sides 
and bottom occasionally with a knife. 

Fruit ices served with lady fingers, kisses, or cookies 
make a very delicate and toothsome dessert for luncheon, 
and are very easily and quickly prepared when once the 
art is mastered. 

SIRUP FOR FRUIT ICE AND SHERBET 

Sugar, 1 cup. 
"Water, 4 cups. 

Place the water and sugar in a stew-pan, and bring to 
a boil ; as the scum rises, skim it off. When the fluid boils, 
remove, strain, and cool. This sirup can be prepared in 
quantity and be bottled up ready for use. This same 



ICES AND SHEEBETS 223 

sirup may be served as a sauce for baked apples and other 
desserts. 

LEMON SHBEBET 

Lemons, 5. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Egg whites, 3. 
Water, 1 quart. 

Add the sugar to the water, and bring to a boil. Re- 
move from the stove, cool, and add the lemon juice, and 
part of the grated rinds if desired. Pour into the freezer, 
and freeze until well coagulated. Then add the beaten 
egg whites, and finish freeziag. 

APPLE WALNUT SNOW 

Strained apple sauce, 2 cups. 

Sugar, Yz cup. 

Water, 1 pint. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Egg whites, 2. 

Walnut meal, % cup. 

Prepare as for apple snow, adding the beaten egg 
whites and walnut meal after the mixture has begun to 
freeze. The nut meal may be obtained by sifting chopped 
or ground nuts through a flour sieve. 

CRANBBERT SHERBET 

Cranberry sauce, 1 cup. 
Sirup, 2 cups. 
Egg whites, 2. 

Proceed as for strawberry sherbet. 



224 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

STRAWBEKRT SHERBET 

Strawberries, 1 pint. 
Sugar, 1/2 cup. 
Lemon juice, % cup. 
Water, 1 cup. 
Sirup, 1 pint. 
Egg whites, 3. 

Pick over and wash the berries, cover with the sugar, 
and mash well; allow to stand for an hour or so, then 
pass through a coarse colander; add the water, and force 
through a coarse cloth or fine wire strainer, until nothing 
but the seeds are left; put in the lemon juice and sirup, 
and freeze until well coagulated; then add the beaten egg 
whites. 

PEACH SHERBET 

Peaches, stewed, 1 pint. 
Sirup, 1 pint. 
Egg whites, 2. 

Press stewed peaches, dried or fresh, through a fine 
sieve; add the sirup, and freeze, adding the beaten egg 
whites as for other sherbets. 

COFFEE SHERBET 

Cereal coffee, 2 cups. 
Sirup, 2 cups. 
Eggs, 3. 

Prepare cereal coffee as for ordinary service, and cool. 
Add the sirup and the beaten yolks. Partially freeze, and 
add the beaten whites. This may be an agreeable change, 
although not a favorite. 



ICES AND 8HEEBETS 225 

SHERBET IN CANTALOUPS 

Wash and divide small cantaloups, remove all seeds 
and imperfections, fill with crushed ice, and set aside to 
chill. When cold, remove the crushed ice, and fill with 
fruit sherbet, the flavor of which should combine well with 
that of the cantaloup. 



ORANGE ICE 

Orange juice, 2 cups. 
Sirup, 2 cups. 
Lemon juice, 1/2 cup. 



Freeze as for other ice, and serve in the half shells which 
have been preserved when removing the juice. Another 
nice method is to remove a round plug from the stem end 
large enough to allow a teaspoon to be inserted; with the 
spoon remove the pulp and juice, strain and freeze the 
juice, and fill the shells with it. Return the plug, and 
serve with other fruit as a surprise. Bananas, muskmelons, 
or other fruit can be filled in the same manner. The shells 
should be chilled before filling, and should be left in a 
cool place until time to serve. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

Pineapple pulp and juice, 14 can. 
Lemons, 4. 
Sirup, 1 quart. 

If sliced pineapple is used, it should be minced very 
fine. The juice alone is more desirable. Mix all the in- 
gredients, and freeze in the usual manner. 



226 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

APPLE SNOW 

Apple sauce, strained, 2 cups. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

"Water, 1 pint. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Mix the sugar and water, bring to a boil, and add this 
sirup and the lemon juice to the apples; cool and freeze 
in the usual manner. More or less sugar may be required 
for various apples. 

MAPLE ICE 

Maple sirup, 2 cups. 
"Water, 3 cups. 

Mix and freeze in the usual manner. Add two beaten 
egg whites if it is desired to make maple sherbet. 




BEVERAGES 



CAEAMEL CEREAL 

A Substitute for Coffee 

For each cup of the beverage required, use two table- 
spoonfuls of the cereal, and boil for ten to twenty minutes. 
Then remove to the side of the range, and let steep a few 
minutes. The strength and aroma of cereal coffee are de- 
veloped by long steeping. 

CHOCOLATE 

Sanitas 

To each two ounces of Sanitas chocolate, allow one 
cup of cold water. Let it stand until the chocolate is 
soft, place over the fire, and after it boils, cook one minute. 
Work it briskly with an egg beater, then serve at once, 
adding at the last moment a tablespoonful of whipped 
cream to each cup. 

It is considered an improvement by some to use two 
thirds chocolate and one third malted nuts. 

Other chocolate is not recommended, as it contains an 
injurious alkaloid, which in the Sanitas brand is removed 
by a special process. 

EGG-NOG 

Egg, 1. 

Milk, y^ glass. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

(227) 



228 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Beat the white of the egg stiff, and add the sugar; 
beat again, and add the yolk; beat, and add the milk. 
Flavor to suit, mix well, and garnish with a half spoonful 
of the white. 

Either part or all of the milk may be left out, and 
fruit juice added in its place. 

FRUIT NECTAR 

For every eight parts of other fruit juice used, add one 
part of lemon juice, and sweeten to taste. A combination 
of fruit juices, as grape, cherry, and raspberry, makes a 
very fine nectar. Always include the lemon juice. The 
nectar should be served ice-cold. 



STRAWBERRY NECTAR 

Ripe strawberries, crushed, 4 cups. 
Water, 4 cups. 
Lemon, sliced very thin, 1. 
Sugar, 2 cups. 

Mix all together, and let stand in a glass or earthen jar 
for two hours; strain through a coarse cloth, and keep on 
ice until served. 

LEMONADE NO. 1 

The best lemonade is made from lemon sirup. Into the 
juice of twelve lemons grate the rind of six. Be careful 
to exclude all seeds and the inner white skin, as they 
impart a bitter taste. Let stand overnight. Make thick 
sirup of white sugar, and when cold strain the lemon juice 



BEVERAGES 229 

into it. A tablespoonful added to a glass of water makes 
a perfect lemonade. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

Lemon juice, % cup. 
Pineapple juice, 1 cup. 
Sugar, 1 cup. 
Water, 1 quart. 

Bring the water and sugar to a boil, cool, and add 
lemon and pineapple juices. Serve ice-cold. 

ORANGEADE 

Sugar, 1 cup. 
Water, 2 cups. 
Orange juice, 2 cups. 
Cracked ice. 

Boil sugar and water together ten minutes to make a 
sirup; then add the orange juice, and let it cool. When 
cold, pour into goblets half filled with cracked ice. 




J^j^&m^jg 



UTENSILS 






i 



Convenient Articles for the Kitchen 




Omelet Fad 






Oake Tin 



Sieve 



Pastry Bnisli 



Toaster 



(230) 



KITCHEN UTENSILS 



231 




French Knife 



Pastry Tubes 



232 



VEGETABIAN COOK BOOK 




Oolander 



Bakery Brush 




Butter Cutter 




ITrongh Serapex 




SoftUop Kuif* 



234 



VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 




Soapstone Oriddla 



Steamer 



KITCHEN UTENSILS 



No room in the house or institution requires more care 
and painstaking effort in the matter of furnishing than 
the kitchen. A large part of the health and comfort of 
the family depends upon the success of this all-important 
room. A good kitchen outfit is one of the foundation stones 
of good housekeeping. 

NUMBER OP UTENSILS 

The number of cooking utensils will depend upon the 
size of the household and the extent of work to be done. 
It is unwise to lay in a large stock of all possible articles 
just because there is a possibility of their being used at 
some time. The better plan is to secure the necessary 
articles first, and buy the others as occasion may demand. 
This list should not be curtailed for the sake of display in 
some other department where less depends upon the re- 
sult. It is true economy to buy the best quality and of 
simple construction. 

Kitchen utensils should have a smooth surface, and 
be light enough to handle well and heavy enough to be 
durable. They should be of such material as will not dis- 
color the food prepared in them and will stand a high 
temperature without becoming rough. They should be suf- 
ficiently solid not to absorb flavors and thus transmit them 
to other preparations. 

(235) 



236 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

GEANITEWARB 

For the preparation of cooked salad dressings, -cooking 
of fruits, desserts, etc., graniteware is very desirable; 
but in many cases aluminum is displacing granite. 

TINWARE 

Such articles as steamers, cake tins, strainers, graters, 
flour scoops, molds for puddings, measures, milk pans, dip- 
pers, cutters, flour sieves, funnels, salt shakers, dust-pans, 
bread tins, strainers, and boxes for meal and bread, cake, 
etc., can as well be of tin as of more expensive material. 

A tin pie pan will render good service for a time, but 
is liable to discolor the crust. For this and other reasons 
we recommend granite pie pans. It is not profitable to 
purchase tin teakettles if durability is considered. 

STBELWARE 

Iron utensils can not be used for cooking fruit or any 
food substance containing acids, as they discolor the food 
and destroy the flavor. Steelware, though more expensive 
at first, is cheaper in the long run, both in the home and in 
institutions, because of its practicability and lasting quali- 
ties. "Where the granite is chipped it is irreparable, while 
a steel kettle can be retrimmed at a small expense. 

WOOD 

The following articles made of wood are serviceable: 
molding boards, rolling-pins, spoons, potato mashers, chop- 
ping-bowls, paddles for stirring, rollers for towels, pie 
markers. 



KITCHEN UTENSILS 237 

GENEEAL UTENSILS NEEDED IN THE KITCHEN 

Stone jars for butter, jugs, knives, egg beater, steel 
dish-cloth, tablespoons, iron spoons, lemon squeezer, cake 
turner, skimmer, can opener, ice pick, batter whips, steels, 
apple corer, scales, scrubbing and vegetable brushes, 
brooms, roll bakers, iron gem pans, toasters, saucepans, 
corkscrew, refrigerator. 

For mincing such foods as cold potatoes, beets, fruit, 
etc., choppers may be made by melting off the ends of small 
tin cans on top of a hot stove. A can should be selected 
that has been opened on the end not containing the inner 
circular piece of tin. After melting off the whole of the 
smooth end, the small round piece on the other end can 
be melted off without removing the whole end, if it is set on 
a red hot stove for a short time. While the can is still 
hot, run the back of a vegetable knife around the edge to 
remove the rough solder. Use this chopper on food in a 
flat pan to keep the food from spreading. 

Bread, pie, and cake tins should be placed in the oven 
before using the first time, and be heated until they are 
tarnished. This will give the food baked in them a better 
color. 

A vegetable mill is almost indispensable to a kitchen. 
This with its various dies may be used for grinding onions, 
nuts, stale bread, legumes, corn for kornlet, etc. 

Some of the articles shown in the accompanying illus- 
tration shouM be found in every kitchen. Experience has 
taught us that it is to the advantage of every cook to have 
a reasonable number of labor-saving devices at hand. 

A bakery brush such as is shown in the illustration is 

16 — Cook Book 



238 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

very handy for brushing up the flour from the molding 
board. 

The spatula has so many uses that a person who once 
finds out its value, will never be without one. 

The peel is very convenient for removing pies, gem 
pans, and such articles from the hot oven. 

For one of the uses of the pie marker, see Unf ermented 
BoUs. 

For beating large quantities of eggs and many other 
things, the batter whip is indispensable. 

The pastry brush is used to brush the tops cf two- 
crust pies. See Pastry Glazing. 

The cake tin shown in the illustration is desirable, be- 
cause the cake can be so easily removed. The same results, 
however, can be obtained by placing in the bottom of the 
tin an oiled piece of manila paper. 

The trough scraper is a convenient article for scra- 
ping the dough from the board or table, as well as clean- 
ing the trough. 

There are several varieties of flour sieves, but one sim- 
ilar to that shown in the cut is the most practical. It 
can be used to strain thin sauces and soups, as well as for 
flour. 

For family use the steamer here shown is very prac- 
tical, as it can be set over a pie tin with water in it, 
or over a large kettle. 

Double boilers of the shape shown in the cut are better 
than those with more flaring bottoms, because they take up 
less room on the stove. 

The sieve represented in the illustration is very service- 
able for removing dirt from such articles as beans, pea- 



KITCHEN UTENSILS 239 

nuts, etc. If the seedless raisins from which it is so dif- 
ficult to remove the stems, are placed in this, and vigor- 
ously rubbed, good results will be obtained. 

The milk pan strainer is the right size to fit an eight 
quart double boiler; and having a fiare bottom, it is very 
handy for straining soups, tomatoes, etc. 

The Chinese strainer is serviceable for such work as 
washing raw rice, and straining thin gravies, sauces, and 
soups. 

The metal batter bowl is not so likely to be broken, and 
for all-round purposes is more practical than the earthen 
ware. 

The vegetable mill shown in the accompanying illustra- 
tion can be so adjusted as to cut fine or coarse slices. It 
also has a device for pushing the vegetables to be cut, 
toward the cutting knives, so that there need be no danger 
of cutting the fingers. 

There are many varieties of food grinders. The one 
shown in the cut is a good one, having several dies. The 
kitchen equipment is not complete without it. 

The asbestos mat is especially convenient where one is 
cooking over gas or oil fires, or where one wishes some 
article to cook slowly. 

Gem pans similar to those here shown, are preferable 
to the ones having flat bottoms. 

A soapstone griddle will be found a great aid in pro- 
ducing desirable hot cakes or in broiling protose, nuttolene, 
and the like. Food preparations are not so liable to stick 
to such a griddle, therefore less oil need be used. 

A pan used for the preparation of omelets should not 
be used for anything else. 



240 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Shirr pans similar to the one shown, are made for one 
or two eggs. The pan should not be too large, or the egg 
will spread out too thin. 

Several brushes are shown on the pages of illustrations. 
The vegetable brush is convenient for washing celery, and 
other vegetables that are to be cooked with the skins on. 

By the assistance of the vegetable scoop, imitations of 
new potatoes may be scooped out of large old potatoes. 
These, cooked, and served with canned peas in the early 
spring, are quite suggestive. With the use of this scoop, 
balls of jelly or gelatine may be prepared for garnishing 
salads and desserts. 

An ice pick similar to the one shown will be found to 
save time and money in cutting ice. 

A French knife is much more convenient for mincing 
vegetables and other foods than the kind that leaves no 
room for the hand between the handle and the cutting 
board. If one possesses two such knives, grasp the handles 
of both in the right hand, and place the palm of the left 
over the back of the blades to hold the points in position; 
then with rapid up-and-down motions of the right hand, 
the mincing of parsley, celery, and other vegetables will 
be found to be very easy. 

No kitchen should be without its steel, and every cook 
should know how to use it. Much time is lost because of 
dull knives. 

A wire potato masher will enable the cook to prepare 
a much better article in a great deal less time than with a 
wooden one. 



i i 



FOOD TABLES I 



I 

In the accompanying tables of food values, published 
by Prof. W. 0. Atwater, Ph.D., in a bulletin of the United 
States Agricultural Department, the nutritive food ele- 
ments are classified under four heads: protein, or that 
which builds muscle and other tissue; fat and carbohy- 
drates, which supply heat and energy; and the ash, or 
mineral, which contains elements needed to repair bones 
and nerves. Gluten, found principally in wheat ; albumen, 
in eggs and meat; casein, in milk; fibrin, in fiesh; and 
legumin, in legumes, are protein. Carbohydrates include 
starch and sugar. According to scientific research, it has 
been found that to noizrish the body properly it must be 
supplied with about five times as much of the carbohy- 
drates as of the protein. 

This is a matter all should understand, for thus much 
inconvenience may be avoided. 



(241) 



242 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF COMMON AMERICAN POOD PRODUCTS 



Food materials (as purchased) 



ANIMAIi rOOD 

Beef and pork 

Porterhouse steak . . 

Corned beef 

Ham 

Salt pork 

Bacon, smoked 

Poultry 

Fowls 

Turkeys 

Fish 

Cod, dressed 

Mackerel, whole . . . . 

Cod, salt 

Herring, smoked . . . 
Fish, canned 

Salmon 

Sardines 

Shellfish 

Oysters, "solids" . . . 

Clams 

Crabs 

Lobsters 

Eggs : Hens' eggs 

Dairy products, etc. 

Butter 

Whole milk 

Skim milk 

Buttermilk 

Condensed milk . . . . 

Cream 

Cheese, Cheddar . . . 

Cheese, full cream . . 



Per ct. 

12.7 

8.4 

10.7 



25.9 
22.7 

29.9 
44.7 
24.9 
44.4 



VEGETABLE FOOD 

Flour, meal, etc. 

Entire wheat flour 

Graham flour 

Wheat flour, roller process — 
High grade and medium. . 
Low grade 

Macaroni, vermicelli, etc. . . 

Wheat breakfast food .... 

Buckwheat flour 

Rye flour 

Corn-meal 

Oat breakfast food 

Rice 

Tapioca 

Starch 

Breadj pastry, etc 

White bread 

Brown bread 



3 



52.4 

61.7 

all.2 



Per ct. 

52.4 
49.2 
48.0 
7.9 
17.4 

47.1 
42.4 

58.5 
40.4 
40.2 
19.2 

63.5 
53.6 

88.3 
80.8 
36.7 
80.7 
65.5 

11.0 
87.0 
90.5 
91.0 
26.9 
74.0 
27.4 
34.2 



11.4 
11.3 

12.0 
12.0 
10.3 

9.6 
13.6 
12.9 
12.5 

7.7 
12.3 
11.4 



Per ct. Per ct. Per et. Per ct. Per ct 



35.3 
43.6 



19.1 

14.3 

13.5 

1.9 

9.1 

13.7 
16.1 

11.1 
10.2 
16.0 
20.5 

21.8 
23.7 

6.0 

10.6 

7.9 

5.9 

13.1 

1.0 
8.3 
3.4 
3.0 
8.8 
2.5 
27.7 
25.9 



13.8 
13.8 

11.4 

14.0 

13.4 

12.1 

6.4 

6.8 

9.2 

16.7 

8.0 

.4 



9.2 
5.4 



17.9 
23.8 
25.9 
86.2 
62.2 

12.3 
18.4 

.2 

4.2 

.4 

8.8 

12.1 
12.1 

1.3 

1.1 

.9 

.7 

9.3 

85.0 

4.0 

.3 

.5 

8.3 

18.5 

36.8 

33.7 



1.9 
2.2 

1.0 
1.9 

.9 
1.8 
1.2 

.9 
1.9 
7.3 



1.3 
1.8 



.a " 



71.9 
71.4 

75.1 
71.2 
74.1 
75.2 
77.9 
78.7 
75.4 
66.2 
79.0 
88.0 
90.0 

53.1 
47.1 



% 



.8 
4.6 

.8 
3.9 
4.1 

.7 
.8 

.8 

.7 

18.5 

7.4 

2.6 
5.3 

1.1 

2.3 

1.5 

.8 

.9 

3.0 
.7 
.7 
.7 

1.9 
.5 

4.0 

3.8 



1.0 
1.8 

.5 

.9 

1.3 

1.3 

.9 

.7 

1.0 

2.1 

.4 

.1 



1.1 
2.1 






37.8 
42.7 
40.2 
92.0 
75.4 

26.7 
35.3 

12.1 
15.1 
34.9 
36.7 

36.5 
41.1 

11.7 
19.2 
10.9 
7.6 
23.3 

89.0 
13.0 
9.5 
9.0 
73.1 
26.0 
72.6 
65.8 



88.6 

88.7 

88.0 
88.0 
89.7 
90.4 
86.4 
87.1 
87.5 
92.3 
87.7 
88.6 
90.0 

64.7 
56.4 



a Refuse, shell. 



FOOD TABLES 243 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OP COMMON AMERICAN POOD PRODUCTS 



Food materials (as purchased) 


1 


1 


a 

S 
o 




1- 


t 


343 .a 


VEGETABLE i-QOD— (continued) 
GralianL bread 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 

35.7 

38.4 

85.7 

19.9 

6.8 

4.8 

5.9 

12.6 
68.5 
83.0 
70.0 
77.7 
75.6 
75.4 
81.1 
80.5 
88.1 
78.9 
66.4 
9.5 
74.6 
13.0 
62.6 
56.6 
55.2 
92.3 
44.2 
94.3 
62.7 

68.9 
85.3 
76.1 
75.9 
94.0 

88.6 
92.9 
90.0 


Per ct. 

8.9 
9.7 
9.0 
6.3 
9.7 
11.8 
9.8 

22.5 

7.1 

2.1 

1.3 

1.4 

.9 

3.1 

.7 

1.0 

3.5 

1.4 

1.3 

24.6 

7.0 

21.4 

1.8 

.4 

1.4 

2.1 

.7 

.9 

.9 

6.9 
3.6 
2.8 
3.6 
1.2 

2.1 
4.4 
1.8 


Per ct. 

1.8 

.9 

.6 

9.0 

12.1 

10.5 

9.1 

1.8 
.7 
.3 
.1 
.2 
.1 

1.1 
.2 
.2 
.4 
.3 
.4 

1.0 
.5 

1.4 
.1 
.4 
.6 
.3 
.2 
.4 
.1 

2.5 

.2 

1.2 

1.0 

.2 

2.8 

.4 

1.1 


Per ct. 

52.1 
49.7 
53.2 
63.3 
69.7 
70.5 
73.1 

70.0 
96.0 
81.0 
100.0 
71.4 

59.6 

22.0 

6.9 

7.7 

4.8 

2.6 

19.7 

2.6 

2.5 

6.8 

8.9 

10.8 

62.0 

16.9 

60.8 

14.7 

2.2 

21.9 

3.2 

4.5 

3.9 

5.7 

19.6 

9.8 

19.0 

18.6 

4.0 

5.0 
1.1 
5.6 


Per ct. 

1.5 
1.3 
1.5 
1.5 
1.7 
2.9 
2.1 

8.5 

1.7 

.7 

.9 

.9 

.8 

.7 

.4 

.8 

1.2 

.5 

1.1 

2.9 

1.0 

3.4 

.8 

.4 

.9 

2.1 

.4 

.5 

.6 

2.1 

1.1 

.9 

.9 

.6 

1.5 
1.2 
1.5 


Per ct. 
64.3 


Whole wheat bread 




61.6 
64.3 


Oake 




80.1 






93.2 






95.2 


Soda crackers . . . 




94.1 


Sugars, etc. 

Molasses 

Candy a 

Honey 

Sugar, granulated 

Maple sirup 

Vegetables h 

Beans, dried 




70.0 
96.0 
81.0 
100.0 
71.4 

87.4 


Beans, Lima, shelled 


' 7.6 
20.0 
15.0 
20.0 

15.6 
15.0 


31.5 
10.0 


Beets 


10.0 


Oabbage 


7.3 


Celery 


4.4 


Corn, green (swt. ) , edible part 
Cucumbers 


24.6 
3.9 




4.5 




11.9 


Onions 


10.0 
20.0 


11.1 




18.6 


Peas (Piaum sativum), dried 
Peas (Pisum sativum), shld. 


90.5 
25.4 
87.0 




20.0 
40.0 
20.0 


17.4 


Rhubarb 


3.4 




24.8 




7.7 




50.0 


5.8 




5.7 




30.0 


7.3 


Vegetables, canned 


31.1 


Peas (PisiMn sativum), grn. 




14.7 
23.9 






24.1 






6.0 








Celery, cream of 

Beef 


11.4 
7.1 


Tomato 


.... 


10.0 



a Plain confectionery not containing nuts, fruit, or chocolate. 

b Sucli vegetables as potatoes, squash, beets, etc., have a certain amount of 
inedible material, skin, seeds, etc. The amount varies with the method of pre- 
paring the vegetables, and can not be accurately estimated. The figures given 
for refuse of vegetables, fruits, etc., are assumed to represent approximately the 
amount of refuse in these foods as ordinarily prepared. 



244 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OP COMMON AMERICAN FOOD PRODUOTS 



Food materials (as purchased) 



VEGETABLE FOOD — (continued) 

Fruits, berries, etc., fresh a 

Apples 

Bananas 

Grapes 

Lemons 

Muskmelons 

Oranges 

Pears 

Persimmons, edible portion 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

Watermelons 

Fruits, dried 

Apples 

Apricots 

Dates 

Figs 

Raisins 

Nuts 

Almonds 

Brazil nuts 

Butternuts 

Chestnuts, fresh 

Chestnuts, dried 

Coconuts 

Coconut, prepared 

Filberts 

Hickory nuts 

Pecans, polished 

Peanuts 

Pifion (Pinus edmlis) 

Walnuts, black 

Walnuts, English 

Miscellaneous 

Chocolate 

Cocoa, powdered 

Cereal coffee, infusion, 1 part 
boiled in 20 parts water, e 



Per ct. 



25.0 
35.0 
25.0 
30.0 
50.0 
27.0 
10.0 



5.0 
59.4 



10.0 

45.0 
49.6 
86.4 
16.0 
24.0 
648.8 



52.1 
62.2 
53.2 
24.5 
40.6 
74.1 
58.1 



Per ct. 



48.9 
58.0 
62.5 
44.8 
63.4 
76.0 
66.1 
85.8 
85.9 
37.5 

28.1 
29.4 
13.8 
18.8 
13.1 

2.7 

2.6 

.6 

37.8 

4.5 

7.2 

3.5 

1.8 

1.4 

1.4 

6.9 

2.0 

.6 

1.0 

5.9 
4.6 

98.2 



Per ct. 



1.0 
.7 
.3 
.6 
.5 
.8 

1.0 
.9 



1.6 
4.7 
1.9 
4.3 



11.5 
8.6 
3.8 
5.2 
8.1 
2.9 
6.3 
7.5 
5.8 
5.2 

19.5 
8.7 
7.2 
6.9 

12.9 
21.6 

.2 



Per ct. 



.3 

.4 

1.2 

.5 

' .1 

.4 
.7 



2.2 
1.0 
2.5 
.3 
3.0 

30.2 

33.7 

8.3 

4.5 

5.3 

25.9 

57.4 

31.3 

25.5 

33.3 

29.1 

36.8 

14.6 

26.6 

48.7 
28.9 



D 



Per ct. 



10.8 

14.3 

14.4 

5.9 

4.6 

8.5 

12.7 

31.5 

12.6 

7.0 

2.7 

66.1 
62.5 
70.6 
74.2 
68.5 

9.5 

3.5 

.5 

35.4 

56.4 

14.8 

31.5 

6.2 

4.3 

6.2 

18.5 

10.2 

3.0 

6.8 

30.3 
37.7 

1.4 






Per ct. 



.3 
.6 
.4 
.4 
.3 
.4 
.4 
.9 
.6 
.6 
.1 

2.0 
2.4 
1.2 
■ 2.4 
3.1 

1.1 

2.0 

.4 

1.1 

1.7 

.9 

1.3 

1.1 

.8 

.7 

1.5 

1.7 

.5 

.6 

2.2 
7.2 

.2 






Per ct. 



11.7 

16.1 

17.0 

7.5 

5.2 

9.6 

14.0 

33.9 

14.2 

9.1 

3.1 

71.9 
70.6 
76.2 
81.2 
76.9 

52.3 
47.8 
13.0 
46.2 
71.5 
44.0 
96.5 
46.1 
36.4 
45.4 
68.6 
57.4 
25.3 
40.9 

94.1 
95.4 

1.8 



. a Fruits contain a certain portion of inedible materials, as skin, seeds, etc., 
which are properly classed as refuse. In some fruits, as oranges and prunes, 
the amount rejected in eating is practically the same as refuse. In others, as 
apples and pears, more or less of the edible material is ordinarily rejected with 
the skin and seeds and other inedible portions. The edible material which is 
thus thrown away, and should properly be classed with the waste, is here 
classed with the refuse. The figures for refuse here given represent, as nearly 
as can be ascertained, the quantities ordinarily rejected, 

i Milk and shell. 

c The average of five analyses of cereal coffee grain is : Water 6.2, protein 
13,3, fat 3.4, carbohydrates 72.6, and ash 4.5 per cent. Only a portion of the 
nutrients, however, enter into the infusion. The average in the table repre- 
sents the available nutrients in the beverage. Infusions of genuine coffee and 
of tea like the above contain practically no nutrients. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS 



If one would obtain the best result from food, certain 
rules in regard to its combination should be observed. This 
instruction applies to all, but more particularly to the 
cook who has the framing of the bill of fare for the home. 
"We recommend simplicity in diet, bringing in variety, not 
by having many kinds at one meal, but by varying from 
meal to meal. Therefore such foods as are placed on the 
table should be those that combine well. For example, a 
fruit dessert such as berry pie should not be served with 
a vegetable dinner. Squash or custard pie might be served 
in its place. If it is desired to serve a fruit dessert, such 
foods as rice, macaroni, and nut foods might accompany it. 
If a careful study is made of this phase of dietetics, much 
good will follow. Study the classifications given below. 

GOOD COMBINATIONS 

Grains and eggs. Grains and fruits. 

Grains and vegetables. Milk and grains. 

BAB COMBINATIONS 

Fruit and vegetables. Sugar and milk. 

Fats with fruits or vegetables. Milk and meat. 

The weights given in the following table are for one 
cup of the articles mentioned. 

OUNCES OUNCE* 

Graham flour 4% Scotch peas 7 

White flour 4% Granulated sugar 6% 

Whole wheat 4% Cane sugar 4% 

Seconds 3% Milk 7% 

(245) 



246 



VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 



OTTNCES 

Eye meal 3% 

Corn-meal 6 

Oatmeal 5% 

Eolled oats 314 

Rolled wheat 3% 

Cracked wheat 5% 

Grits 5 

Kice 7 

Farina 5% 

Hominy 7 

Sago 6% 

Tapioca 5% 

Pearl barley 6% 

Lima beans 6 

White beans 7 

Lentils 6% 



OUNCES 

Seedless raisins 6% 

Granola 4 

Popcorn 6V2 

Prunes 7 

Almonds 2% 

Hickory nuts 4 

Pecans 4 

Brazil nuts 3Vi 

Pine nuts 6% 

Dates 6% 

Figs 8 

Broken macaroni 4 

Vermicelli 314 

Corn-starch 4%, 

Shredded coconut 2 



The accompanying tables showing the composition of 
milk and its by-products will be of interest to those study- 
ing the subject from a scientific standpoint. 



MILK 

Protein 4.1 

Fat 3.9 

Sugar of milk 5.2 

Mineral matter 0.8 

Water 86.0 



CREAM 

Protein 2.7 

Fat 26.7 

Sugar of milk 2.8 

Mineral matter 1.8 

Water 66.0 



SKIM MILK 

Protein 4.0 

Fat 7.8 

Sugar 3.8 

Mineral matter 0.8 

Water 88.0 



BUTTERMILK 

Protein 4.1 

Fat 0.7 

Sugar 3.6 

Mineral matter 0.8 

Water 88.0 



The following table of weights and measures may be 

helpful in case no scales are at hand. 

5 heaping tablespoons of flour 1 cupful. 

5 heaping tablespoons of sugar % cupful. 

2 rounding tablespoons of flour 1 ounce. 



FOOD COMBINATIONS 247 

I heaping tablespoon of sugar 1 ounce. 

9 eggs 1 pound. 

II eggs 1 pint. 

1 pint of liquid 1 pound. 

1 cup % pint. 

3% cups sifted flour 1 pound. 

2% cups of flour 1 pound. 

2 eups of butter 1 pound. 

. 2 oups of sugar 1 pound. 

10 tablespoons of oil % cupful. 

By practise one is enabled to guess quite accurately as 
to the amount of grain to be used with any given amount 
of water in the cooking of cereals. For the benefit of be- 
ginners and any who wish to be accurate, the following 
table is given. It is not our purpose to make this list an 
extensive one, as good judgment will tell one that various 
grains of the same nature, will require the same amount 
of water; for instance, rolled oats and rolled wheat. 



GEAIN -V 

Oatmeal 1 part 4 parts 

Boiled oats 1 " 3 

Pearl barley 1 " 5 

Cracked wheat 1 " 4% 

Boiled rye 1 " 3 

Coarse hominy 1 " 5 

Corn-meal 1 " 4 

Cream of wheat 1 " 4 

Graham 1 " 3 

Steamed rice 1 " 2 

Browned rice 1 " 3 



The time required for cooking depends on the kind of 
cereal, and upon the method by which it is cooked. The 
first seven given in this list are more wholesome when 
cooked from three to five hours. The last four will cook 
properly in one half to one hour. 



PECUNIARY ECONOMY OF FOOD 

Amounts of Actually Nutritive Ingredients Obtained in Dif- 
ferent Food Materials for 10 Cents 
Amount of Nutrient In Pounds; Fuel Value In Calories 
Protein Fats CarioAydhatsa Kiell&be 




(248) 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 




Add a little milk or lemon juice to the water in which 
corn is to be cooked. 

The addition of a small amount of sugar to field peas 
will improve them and make them almost like garden peas. 

Allow raisins to stand in boiling water for a few min- 
utes if you wish to remove the stones. 

In baking potatoes, cut off one end, so that the steam 
will have an opportunity to escape. They will then come 
out more mealy and dry. A novel method is to cut off a 
narrow paring all around the potato. 

To keep celery, roll it in manila paper and then in a 
cloth. Keep in a dark, cool place. 

In baking custards and other preparations where it is 
desired to set one pan inside of another with water be- 
tween them, it wiU be found convenient to use an iron 
dish-cloth to separate the two pans. 

To remove the disagreeable odor of onion from the 
hands, rub them with freshly mixed mustard, and then 
rinse well. 

To prevent new enameled ware from cracking, grease 
the inside with butter before using. 

To make water bottles, vases, and the like look clear, 
add cut lemons to the water, and shake well. 

If by mistake eggs are boiled longer than intended, 
drop them in cold water, and allow to remain for half 
a minute. 

(249) 



250 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

Wrap ice with paper or flannel sheet to keep from 
melting. 

To preserve the freshness of a cake or batch of cookies, 
and to impart a delicate flavor, place an orange or a cut 
apple in the box with them. 

Fit your pie paste to the tin by using a chunk of bread 
dough instead of your hand. Bake your pie shells between 
two pie tins to keep from blistering. Don't put the filling 
in hot, or the crust will be tough. 

Grind dough for sticks in a vegetable mill instead of 
pounding or pulling it. Roll it out about one half inch 
thick, and mark it off with a pie marker. It saves time. 

Bake meringue in a slow oven and it will be thicker. 

GARNISHING 

Garnishing of dishes has a great deal to do with the 
appearance of a dinner table. Each dish should be sufil- 
ciently garnished, yet not done to excess. 

With a potato ball cutter, scoop out balls from gela- 
tine mold or jelly which is solid enough to hold its form. 
Use these in garnishing desserts or sweet entrees. 

The attractiveness of a roast is much enhanced if gar- 
nished with fresh mashed potatoes as it can be tastily done 
by forcing them through a pastry bag and tube. Mayon- 
naise or other salad dressings may be added to salads in 
the same way. Nut butter, when thick, may be dropped 
on the butter chips from a pastry tube in a very attractive 
manner. 



I TABLE ETIQUETTE AND RULES | 
i FOR WAITERS I 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 

The refinement of an individual, and the nature of the 
home training, are nowhere more clearly revealed than 
at the table. Carelessness in regard to good table manners 
shows thoughtlessness for the feelings of others unfortu- 
nate enough to be dining at the same table, and will 
probably be looked upon as ignorance and lack of culture. 
For this reason good table etiquette should be insisted 
upon at the family table. This will insure good manners 
in the presence of guests or when entertained away from 
home. 

The following suggestions on table etiquette are of fun- 
damental importance, and will be found applicable to all 
occasions. 

GENERAL TABLE ETIQUETTE 

When giving a dinner, avoid crowding the table, as the 
serving can be done more effectively and with less annoy- 
ance to the guests where the chairs are not crowded to- 
gether. 

Guests should remain standing until the hostess seats 
herself. 

When a gentleman has accompanied a lady to the di- 
ning-room, he should see that she is first seated before 
taking his own place. 

Necessary introductions should be given before the 

guests are seated, and never afterward. 

(251) 



252 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

The napkin should be unfolded below the level of the 
table ; and in wiping the lips, should be used as inconspicu- 
ously as possible. 

A gentleman places his half unfolded napkin over the 
left knee. It should never be tucked under the chin or 
in the waistcoat. 

Unless one is at home, the napkin should not be folded 
at the close of the meal. 

Seat yourself quietly at the table, without dragging the 
chair forward; and in rising do not push the chair back 
from the table before attempting to rise. 

Sit in an upright position at the table, without leaning 
back in the chair or forward against the table. 

Never sit with the elbows on the table nor extended from 
the body when eating. 

Keep your feet in front of the chair, and not twisted 
around its legs nor extended too far under the table. 

In eating, do not lean over the plate nor incline the head 
to meet every mouthful. 

Keep the hands away from the face and the head, and 
when possible avoid coughing. 

It is never good manners to read at the table when others 
are present. 

Do not toy with the fork, knife, spoons, or anything 
about your plate. 

In serving, do not heap the plates. 

Always serve ladies first. 

In passing the plate for more, always remove the knife 
and fork, and do not continue eating until the plate has 
been returned. 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 253 

In asking for anything at the table, address by name 
the one who can most conveniently serve you. 

When a plate is offered to you by the one serving, do 
not pass it to some one else unless asked to do so. 

Do not refuse to take the last piece on a plate, as there 
is supposed to be more. 

Should you observe that something is desired by an- 
other, do not hesitate to pass it, lifting the dish in do- 
ing so. 

Never lean forward across the table to reach for any- 
thing, nor reach in front of others. 

Never take so large a mouthful that you can not con- 
veniently speak. 

Chew the food with the mouth closed, and as quietly as 
possible. 

Eat slowly. Eapid eating is a violation of good man- 
ners, and the laws of health as well. 

The last bit of food in the mouth should be swallowed 
before leaving the table. 

Be careful not to soil the table-cloth. No waste matter 
should be laid on it. 

Salt should not be put on the table-cloth. 

If anything objectionable is found in the food, never 
betray the fact to others. 

Do not embarrass hostess or guests by appearing to 
notice accidents. 

Never speak about the excellence of your own food or 
dishes, nor offer apologies for them. , 

Never urge a guest to eat food which he has declined. 

Never put toothpicks on the table, nor use them at the 
table. 

17 — Cook Book 



254 VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 

At a public dining-room, ladies as well as gentlemen al- 
ways rise from the table if another stops to speak to them. 

At a private table, never leave until all have finished. 

Ladies should pass out of the dining-room before the 
gentlemen. 

Knives and forks should be held so that the handles rest 
in the palms of the hands; and in using a knife, the fore- 
finger rests on the upper part of the blade. 

When it is necessary to use both knife and fork, the 
knife is held in the right hand and the fork in the left. 
In this ease the food should be carried to the mouth with 
the fork in the left hand. It is never proper to transfer 
the fork from one hand to the other, but it should be used 
with ease in either hand. 

Hold the fork in the right hand in courses where no 
knife is required. 

Never carry food to the mouth with the knife. 

Do not use the back of the fork to carry food to the 
mouth. 

Never substitute a spoon where the fork can be used. 

Do not entirely fill the spoon, nor overload the fork. 

Do not hold the handle of the spoon in the palm of the 
hand. 

Carry the food to the mouth with an inward movement 
of the hand. 

Hold the fork or spoon in a sidewise position when eat- 
ing, and not with the handle pointing toward the opposite 
side of the table. 

If the knife, fork, or spoon is accidentally dropped, in- 
stead of reaching for it, ask for another. 

When through using the knife and fork, lay them on 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 255 

the plate parallel to each other, the knife being on thfe 
right, with the sharp edge next to the fork, and the tines 
of the fork down. 

PROPER MANNER OF BATING VARIOUS FOODS 

Soup should be eaten from the side of the spoon, and 
without the noise of sipping. It should be dipped up with 
the side of the spoon toward the farther side of the plate. 
Never tip up the plate in eating. 

Thickening the soup with crumbs is bad form. 

In eating bouillon, the spoon is used until only a little 
liquid is left. This remaining portion may be drunk from 
the cup, which is lifted by one of its handles. 

Vegetables and made dishes are eaten with a fork. 

The spoon is used for soft desserts cooked fruits, and 
fresh fruits served with cream. 

Remove bread from the plate with the fingers, and never 
with a fork. 

Do not cut the bread, but break it, and butter each piece 
as it is needed. To butter the bread, do not hold it in the 
hand, but lay it on the side of the plate. 

"When drinking coffee or any beverage served in cups, 
remove the spoon before lifting the cup to the lips. 

Place the spoon in the saucer when not using it. 

When drinking, look into the cup or glass. 

Never blow into a cup or soup dish to cool its contents. 

Never drink from a saucer. 

Before drinking from a glass, always wipe the lips. 

Lift a goblet by the stem, and take hold of tumblers 
just below the center. 

Do not bend the head backward when drinking, nor tip 
the glass or cup too much. 



256 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

Apples, peaches, and all large fruits should be cut with 
a knife, and not eaten whole. 

Remove seeds from the mouth with the fingers, and lay 
them on the* plate. 

Olives should be eaten with the fingers. 

Artichokes are eaten with the fingers. 

Ice-cream may be eaten with a spoon or ice-cream fork. 

Unstemmed strawberries are eaten with the fingers. 

Melons, if soft enough, may be eaten with a spoon. 

Pineapple may require the use of both knife and fork. 

GENERAL RULES FOR WAITERS 

This chapter has been prepared after years of experience 
in conducting public dining-rooms, and includes instruc- 
tions which will greatly aid in the training of inexperienced 
waiters and in reducing their work to a system. Each 
waiter should have access to the rules, and be required to 
become familiar with them. 

SETTING THE TABLE 

1. Place the table-cloth on the table evenly, being careful 
that the corners are at equal distances from the floor. 

2. See that the sugar bowls, salt shakes, oil cruets, etc., 
are clean and well filled. 

3. Place the silver, china, and napkins on the table in 
their proper places. 

RULES FOR SERVING 

1. Step to the left of a guest in taking an order. Main- 
tain a pleasant and polite attitude, and pay strict atten- 
tion to the order given. 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 257 

2. Deliver the order exactly as called for, to avoid dis- 
satisfaction on the part of the guest; and be as prompt as 
possible. 

3. In filling orders, select hot dishes for hot foods, and 
cold dishes for cold foods. Place all cold foods on your tray 
first, so as to serve the hot foods as hot as possible. 

4. Always change an order that is not perfectly satis- 
factory. 

5. Report all serious complaints to the one in charge 
of the work. Never have any dispute with a guest. 

6. In serving, place dishes carefully on the table from 
the left side, removing them in the same manner. 

7. Coffee, milk, grape juice, or other beverages, and all 
liquid foods, should be served and removed from the right 
side. 

8. In handling a dish, grasp it by the edge with thumb 
and finger, but never place the hand over the dish in grasp- 
ing opposite edges. 

9. In placing drinking glasses on the table, or in remov- 
ing them for filling, do not place your fingers inside the 
glass, but grasp firmly on the outside. 

10. Always turn the handle of a cup toward the guest. 

11. Never put a spoon in the guest's soup or coffee. 

12. Eemove soiled dishes from the table after each 
course. 

13. Always offer the finger-bowl after fruit and at the 
close of the meal. 

14. As soon as the guest has left the table, remove all 
remaining soiled dishes, and brush crumbs from the table- 
cloth, being careful to keep them from falling into the 
chair or on the floor. 



258 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

PERSONAL SUGGESTIONS TO WAITERS 

1. Always be pleasant and courteous. 

2. Be constantly on the alert to supply every need of 
the guest, and so far as possible anticipate his desires. Es- 
pecially in sanitariums, where you are dealing with sick 
peoplcj show them every consideration, and strive to please 
them. 

3. Train your miad to act quickly, use good judgment, 
and keep cool. 

4. Avoid a loud tone of voice in giving an order in the 
kitchen or pantry, or in speaking to any one in the dining- 
room. 

5. Be careful to give your order to the cook clearly and 
distinctly, so as to avoid delays that would come from a 
misunderstanding. 

6. Handle the dishes carefully, and so avoid all possi- 
bility of embarrassing accidents. 

7. In placing dishes on the table, do not push them 
against one another, but handle them with as little noise 
as possible. 

8. Give the same courteous and prompt attention to 
each guest. 

9. Do not engage in conversation with one another while 
on duty. 

10. Carry the tray on the left hand, and do not rest 
it on the backs of chairs while removing or placing dishes 
on the table. 

11. Personal cleanliness and neatness in appearance are 
essential to every waiter. 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 259 

DON'TS FOE WAITERS 

1. Don't make the guests call for everything they need, 
but keep your eyes open to anticipate them. 

2. Don't annoy guests by staring at them or standing 
so close as to interfere with their conversation. 

3. Don't dictate to guests. ' 

4. Don't offer to shake hands with guests or visit fa- 
miliarly with them in the dining-room. 

5. Don't stand in ungraceful lounging attitudes against 
the wall or leaning on the backs of chairs. 

6. Don't refuse to help one another if doing so will give 
better service. 

7. Don't clean your finger nails, pick your teeth, nor 
scratch your head in the dining-room. 

8. Don't fish for tips. 

FAMILY DINNER WITHOUT SERVANTS 

The aim of every housekeeper should be to set a table 
that will be attractive in appearance, even though the food 
may be of the plainest. To this end everything to be used 
upon the table should be scrupulously clean — the cloth 
should be fresh and smoothly ironed, the dishes carefully 
washed and polished, and the silver bright. Neatness and 
order in arranging the table appointments are essential. 
Carelessness in these matters encourages carelessness in 
table manners. 

LAYING THE TABLE 

Cover the table with a silence cloth. This may be of 
felt or canton flannel, and serves as a protection to the 



260 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

polished table, improves the appearance of the table-cloth, 
adds to its wearing qualities, and deadens the sound made 
by setting down the dishes. 

Place the linen cloth over the silence cloth smoothly, 
and with its center exactly in the center of the table. As 
a matter of economy as well as appearance, a cloth of good 
quality will be found most satisfactory. 

A centerpiece of flowers or ferns is a desirable addition 
for all occasions, and may be tastefully arranged with al- 
most endless variety. 

Place the desired number of service plates around the 
table in symmetrical order. The plates and silver should 
be laid about one inch from the edge of the table. 

Place the knife on the right of the plate, with the sharp 
edge turned toward it; and next to the knife the soup 
spoon, with the bowl up. 

On the left of the plate place the dinner fork, with the 
tines up. 

The forks and spoons for other courses are placed on 
the table as needed. 

Place the folded napkin squarely on the table to the left 
of the fork. 

At the right of the plate and opposite the point of the 
knife, place the glass. 

Place the olives and salted almonds on the table on 
either side of the centerpiece and in line with it. 

THE SIDEBOARD 

After laying the table, see that the sideboard contains 
the fruit juice, and a pitcher of water in case it should be 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 261 

preferred, forks and spoons for later courses, and a bowl 
of cube sugar with the tongs. It should also contain finger- 
bowls, two thirds full of tepid water. These, with dessert- 
spoons, should be placed on doilies on the dessert plates. 

SIDE TABLE 

On the side table place tablespoons, a carving knife 
and fork, a tray covered with a doily, extra napkins and 
silver in case of emergencies, a crumb tray and scraper for 
removing crumbs, or a plate and napkin for that purpose. 

Plates for the hot courses should be kept warm, and 
those for salad and dessert should be chilled. 

SIMPLE FAMILY DINNEE 

MENU 
Cream of Corn Soup Zwieback 

Olives Salted Almonds 

Vegetarian Eoast 

Mashed Potatoes Green Peas Browned Cauliflower 

Fruit Juice 
Mock Chicken Salad White Crisps 

Caramel Custard Coffee 

FIRST COURSE 

Just before announcing dinner, serve the soup in plates 
previously heated. Place the soup plate on the service plate. 
Set a plate of zwieback on the table to be passed at the 
beginning of the soup course. 

When this course has been finished, remove the soup 
and service plates, taking them from the right side. 



262 VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 

SECOND COUESE 

Place the roast, potatoes, and cauliflower, with carving 
set, tablespoons, and dinner plates, in front of the host, 
who serves first either the guest of honor or the hostess. 
In this latter ease others at the table are served beginning 
at either the right or left of the hostess. Place the peas 
with side dishes and tablespoon before the hostess, who in 
serving passes them in regular order to those at the table. 

Set the bread on the table, to be passed throughout this 
course. 

Serve the fruit juice at the beginning of the course, fill- 
ing the glasses three fourths full. 

Olives and nuts are also served now, and may be passed 
between any of the courses. 

Kemove everything belonging to this course, taking first 
the platter, vegetable dishes, etc. 

Individual plates and side liquid dishes are removed 
from the right side. 

THIRD COURSE 

Serve the salad prepared for individual service by 
placing it from the right side. Place salad forks, and set 
the plate of white crisps on the table to be passed during 
this course. 

Remove the salad course, and brush the crumbs from 
the table. 

FOURTH COURSE 

Serve the dessert as in the other courses, with dessert- 
spoons placed on the dessert plates. 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 263 

FIFTH COURSE 

Serve the coffee and place the sugar bowl and tongs on 
the table to be passed as needed. Individual finger-bowls 
may then be placed on the table, or are set on with the 
dessert plate, being placed on it on a doily, and removed 
with the doily to the side of the plate, leaving the dessert 
plate in readiness for the dessert course. 

SIMPLE FAMILY BREAKFAST 

MENU 

Baked Apples with Cream 

Steel-Cut Oatmeal 
Baked Potatoes Poached Eggs 

Corn Bread 

Coffee 

The same general rules for setting the table may be 
followed for the breakfast as for the dinner. Breakfast 
plates and proper silver will be substituted. 

The baked apples may be already served when breakfast 
is announced. The cream is passed as desired. 

The fruit course is removed from the right, and the 
oatmeal is served. Milk or cream is passed. 

Remove the dishes for this course, and place the pota- 
toes and eggs, and also the plates, in front of the host. 
The serving is done in the same manner as with the second 
course in the dinner. 

Coffee is served by the hostess. 



INDEX 



Bakery and Breakfast Dishes 

Boston Brown Bread 179 

Coconut Crisps 178 

Communion Bread 174 

Corn Bread No. 3 182 

Corn Bread without Baking 

Powder, No. 1 181 

Corn Bread without Baking 

Powder, No. 2 182 

Corn Flake Drop Cakes 180 

Corn Gems 175 

Corn-Meal Gems 177 

Corn-Meal Rolls 179 

Croutons 173 

Gems or Puffs (Plain) 176 

Gluten Gems 176 

Graham Fruit Gems 177 

Granose Puffs 178 

Green Corft Griddle Cakes 181 

Hoe Cake 183 

Light Bread 171 

Popovers 177 

Potato Rolls 179 

Rice Gems 176 

Bice Waffles 180 

Salt Rising Bread 174 

Unfermented Bread 175 

Vegetarian Hot Cakes 180 

Whole Wheat and Graham 

Gems 178 

Zwieback 173 

Beverages 

Caramel Cereal 227 

Chocolate 227 

Egg-Nog 227 

Fruit Nectar 228 

Lemonade No. 1 228 

(264) 



Orangeade 229 

Pineapple Lemonade 229 

Strawberry Nectar 228 

Cakes 

Angel Cake 164 

Boiled Icing 168 

FiUing, Cream, No. 1 169 

FiUing, Cream, No. 2 169 

Filling, Lemon 168 

Frosting, Maple 169 

Honey Cakes 168 

Orange Cake 164 

Plain Cake 167 

Sponge Cake, Favorite 166 

Sponge Cake, Nut 166 

Sponge Cake, Plain 165 

Sponge Cake, Simple 165 

Sponge Jelly Cake 167 

Sponge Sheet 166 

Sunshine Cake 164 

Cereals 

Browned Kornlet 188 

Browned Mush 187 

Browned Rice 186 

Corn-Meal Mush 186 

Cracked Wheat 185 

Farina 187 

Fruit Dressing for Cereals . . . 190 

Gluten-Granola Mush 188 

Gluten Porridge 188 

Graham Porridge 186 

Graham Porridge with Dates. .188 

Granola Porridge 189 

Hominy or Hulled Corn 189 

Oatmeal 184 

Pearl Barley 187 



INDEX 



265 



Eiee, Western Style 185 

Eice with Eaisins 186 

EoUed Oats 185 

Dairy Dishes 

Buttermilk Cheese 203 

Cottage Cheese 202 

Junket 204 

Lebben 205 

Eennet Blanc-Mange 204 

SteriHzed Milk 203 

"Whipped Cream 202 

Yogurt No. 1 205 

Yogurt No. 2 205 

Eggs 

Apple Omelet 198 

Asparagus Omelet 199 

Baked Eggs in Tomato Cases 201 

Cream Shirred Eggs .201 

Curdled Eggs 200 

Floated Eggs 200 

Gluten Omelet 198 

Green Pea Omelet 198 

Jellied Eggs 200 

Omelets 199 

Omelet Souffle 196 

Omelet with Tomato 198 

Onion Omelet 198 

Plain French Omelet 196 

Plain Omelet 197 

Poached Eggs 200 

Poached Eggs on Granose .... 200 

Poached Eggs on Toast 200 

Protose Omelet 197 

Eice Omelet 198 

Scrambled Eggs with Parsley 199 
Scrambled Eggs with Protose 199 
Scrambled Eggs with Sugar 

Corn 199 

Shirred Eggs 201 

Sweet Omelet Soufflg 196 

Tomato Shirred Eggs 201 

Entrees 

Baked Corn 30 

Baked Eggplant a la Creme . . 28 



Baked Potpie 32 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 28 

Bean and Nut Loaf 46 

Bean Croquettes 35 

Boiled Macaroni, Plain 47 

Braized Protose 60 

Chicken Croquettes 34 

Corn Chowder 29 

Creamed Macaroni 48 

Dressing No. 1 40 

Dressing No. 2 41 

Dried Pea Croquettes 35 

Egg Macaroni 48 

Egg Mixture for Croquettes, 

Fillets, etc 33 

Escalloped Corn 29 

Favorite Protose Cutlets 66 

Fillets of Vegetarian Salmon . . 25 

Fish Pie 31 

Fricassee of Protose and Eiee 63 
Frijoles with Nut Cero Mexi- 

cano 58 

Frizzled Protose in Eggs 65 

Green Corn Nut Pie 30 

Hamburger Loaf 47 

Lentil Fritters 43 

Lentil Hash _ 37 

Lentil Eoast ' 44 

Macaroni a I'ltalienne 51 

Macaroni and Cheese, Vege- 
tarian Style 52 

Macaroni and Corn 49 

Macaroni and Kornlet 49 

Macaroni Baked with Protose S3 

Macaroni Croquettes 51 

Macaroni Cutlets 54 

Macaroni Dumplings 52 

Macaroni in Cream 48 

Macaroni Neapolitaina 51 

Macaroni with Cream To- 
mato Sauce 50 

Macaroni with Eggplant 53 

Macaroni with Egg Sauce .... 49 

Macaroni with Granola 50 

Mock Chicken Croquettes 34 

Mock Chicken Pie 32 

Mock Chicken Eissoles 39 



266 



VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 



Mock Turkey with Dressing . . 40 

Mock Veal Loaf 46 

Mock Whitefish 25 

Mother 's Protose Cutlets 67 

New England Boiled Dinner . . 27 

Noodles 55 

Nut and Potato Roast 45 

Nut and Eice Croquettes 35 

Nut and Vegetable Pie 33 

Nut and Vegetable Stew 62 

Nut Cero au Gratin 57 

Nut Cero Baked with Egg- 
plant 64 

Nut Cero Pot Eoast 62 

Nut Cero Stew 68 

Nut Erieassee with Browned 

Sweet Potatoes 57 

Nuttolene 67 

Nuttolene a la Creme 68 

Nuttolene Baked with Onions 67 

Nuttolene in Cream 69 

Nuttolene Stew 67 

Olive and Nut Earebit 42 

Olive and Potato Patties 42 

Olive Fillets 42 

Olive Patties 41 

Potato Chowder, Plain 29 

Potato Croquettes 36 

Protose and Eice 62 

Protose and Potatoes Smoth- 
ered in Onions 64 

Protose Baked in Tomato .... 64 

Protose Fricassee 61 

Protose Hash 65 

Protose or Nut Cero 56 

Protose or Nut Cero Steak 

Smothered in Onions 59 

Protose Patties, Plain 58 

Protose Smothered with To- 
matoes 61 

Protose Steak 58 

Protose Steak a la Tartare ... 59 

Protose with Browned Potatoes 57 

Eagout of Protose 60 

Eaw Potato Hash 66 

Eice and Banana Compote .... 38 

Eice and Egg Scramble 43 



Eice Mold with Fruit Compote 38 

Eoast of Protose 56 

Scalloped Protose 65 

Scotch Pea Loaf 45 

Spaghetti 55 

Spaghetti in Tomato Sauce ... 55 

Spanish Eice 44 

Stewed Protose, Spanish 63 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 36 

Tomato Macaroni 52 

Tomato Pie 33 

Vegetable Oyster Pie 31 

Vegetarian Beefsteak 39 

Vegetarian Hamburger Steak. . 27 

Vegetarian Sausage 27 

Vegetarian Tamales 26 

Vermicelli 54 

VermiceUi Nut Pie 54 

Walnut Lentils 37 

Walnut Lentil Patties 37 

Food Combinations 245 

Pecuniary Economy of Food. .248 

Food Tables 

Average Composition of Com- 
mon American Food Prod- 
ucts 242-244 

Fetjits and Their Pkeparation 

Apple Sauce 217 

Apple Sauce, Baked 218 

Apples, Grape 218 

Apples, Maple 217 

Bananas, Baked 219 

Berries, Stewed 219 

Muskmelons with Sliced 

Peaches 218 

Prune Marmalade 218 

Prune Whip 218 

General Suggestions 249 

Garnishing 250 

Hygiene op Cooking 

Baking 10 

Boiling 7 



INDEX 



267 



Braizing 10 

Broiling 10 

Milk ■ ■ 9 

Steaming 9 

Stewing 9 

Ices and Sherbets 

Apple Snow 226 

Apple Walnut Snow 223 

Coffee Sherbet 224 

Cranberry Sherbet 223 

Lemon Sherbet 223 

Maple Ice 226 

Orange Ice 225 

Peach Sherbet 224 

Pineapple lee 225 

Sherbet in Cantaloups 225 

Sirup for Fruit lee and Sherbet 222 
Strawberry Sherbet 224 

Liquid Foods 

Barley Broth 207 

Corn-Meal Gruel 208 

Gluten Meal 208 

Graham Gruel 207 

Oatmeal Gruel .208 

Bice Gruel 207 

Nut Preparations 

Almond Butter 213 

Crystallized Peanuts 215 

Nut Butter 212 

Nut Butter for the Table 214 

Nut Cream 214 

Salted Peanuts 215 

To Blanch Almonds 215 

Pies 

Apple Pie 162 

Bakers' Custard Pie 160 

Blueberry Pie 158 

Coconut Pie 158 

Cream Pie 157 

Lemon (Superior) Pie 160 



Mince Meat Filling 159 

Mince Pie 159 

Mock Cherry Pie 163 

Pastry Glazing 156 

Pie Crust 156 

Pie Shells 156 

Prune Pie 161 

Pumpkin for Pies 161 

Pumpkin Pies 161 

Pumpkin Pies without Eggs . . .161 

Ehubarb Pie 162 

Strawberry Pie 163 

Washington Cream Pie 157 

Puddings 

Adelaide Pudding No. 1 129 

Adelaide Pudding No. 2 129 

Apple Coconut Pudding 136 

Apple Dumplings 136 

Apple Nut Pudding 138 

Apple Pudding, Baked 137 

Apple Snow 138 

Apple Walnut Pudding 135 

Baked Indian Pudding 146 

Banana Farina 144 

Banana Tapioca 133 

Blueberry Pudding 142 

Bread Pudding 141 

Brown Betty 143 

Cabinet Pudding 130 

Cake Blanc-Mange 146 

Cake Pudding 141 

Caramel Custard 132 

Cereal Pudding 145 

Chocolate Gelee 149 

Coffee Gelee 149 

Corn-Starch Blanc-Mange 134 

Cream Puffs 147 

Cream Bice Pudding 144 

Cream Sago Pudding 131 

Date Pudding 128 

Fig Pudding 128 

Floating Island 133 

Fruit Gelee 148 

Fruit Tapioca Pudding 130 

Gelatine Custard 134 



268 



VEGETARIAN COOK BOOK 



Lemon Apple 137 

Maple Cream Gelee 148 

Meringue » 149 

Orange Fruit Mold 146 

Orange Sago Mold 131 

Orange Triffle 139 

Peach MufE 139 

Pineapple Tapioca 130 

Plain Custard 132 

Plugged Apples 137 

Plum Pudding 127 

Pressed Fruit Pudding 142 

Prune Pudding No. 1 143 

Prune Pudding No. 2 143 

Eice Patties 145 

Eiee Pudding 144 

Snow Pudding 140 

Sponge Pudding 140 

Steamed Apple Pudding 127 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 128 

Strawberry FlufE 138 

Strawberry Shortcake 147 

Strawberry Souffle 139 

Tapioca Custard (Eich) 133 

Pudding Sauces 

Coconut Sauce 152 

Cream Pineapple Sauce 155 

German Sauce 151 

Golden Sauce 151 

Hard Sauce 151 

Jelly Sauce 153 

Lemon Sauce No. 1 153 

Lemon Sauce No. 2 153 

Maple Cream Sauce 155 

Orange Sauce 152 

Pineapple Sauce 155 

Plain Pudding Sauce 154 

Strawberry Sauce 154 

Vanilla Sauce 154 

Salads 

Asparagus and Cauliflower 

Salad 112 

Asparagus and Protose Salad 111 



Asparagus Salad HI 

Banana Salad 119 

Brazilian Salad 117 

Cabbage Salad 110 

Celery and Cabbage Salad .... Ill 

Cottage Cheese Salad 110 

Cucumbers 112 

Date and Celery Salad 116 

Egg Salad 112 

English Salad 112 

Fancy Fruit Salad No. 1 118 

Fancy Fruit Salad No. 2 118 

Fruit Salad 118 

Green Pea and Celery Salad . .115 
Green Pea and Nuttolene Salad 115 

Lettuce 110 

Lima Bean and Celery Salad. .114 

Lima Bean Salad 113 

Macaroni and Green Pea Salad 116 

Neaslerode Salad 119 

Nut and Fruit Salad 117 

Nut and Pea Salad 116 

Nut Cero Salad 109 

Nut Cheese 110 

OUve and Almond Salad 113 

Pea and Onion Salad 115 

Potato Salad 112 

Protose and Celery Salad ....113 

Eussian Salad 109 

Strawberry Salad 118 

Stuffed Eggs 114 

Tomato Gelatine 109 

Vegetarian Chicken Salad .... 108 

Vegetarian Salmon Salad 108 

Waldorf Salad 116 

Salad Deessings 

Cream, No. 1 124 

Cream, No. 2 125 

Cream, No. 3 125 

Cream Tomato 125 

Favorite 121 

French 121 

Golden 122 

Green Mayonnaise 121 

Mayonnaise 120 



INDEX 



269 



Nut 122 

Nut and Tomato 123 

Oil (Sour) 122 

Eed 126 

Uncooked Sweet 126 

Whipped Cream 123 

"White 123 

White Cream 124 

Sandwiches 

Date 210 

Hot 211 

Nut and Egg 209 

Nut and Jelly 210 

Nut Cero 209 

Nuttolene or Nut Loaf 209 

Olive Almond 211 

OUve Nut 210 

Protose or Nut Cero 210 

Sauces for Vegetables, 
Entrees, etc. 

Brown Gravy 104 

Brown Regency Sauce 100 

Cream Brown Gravy 104 

Cream Sauce 102 

Cream Tomato Sauce 105 

Egg Sauce 102 

Eollandaise Sauce 100 

Ideal ChilU Sauce 102 

Mint Sauce 101 

Nut Grav 103 

Olive Sauce 100 

Parsl^ Sauce 105 

Protose Sauce 103 

Sauce Imperial 101 

Tomato Sauce 105 

Walnut Gravy 104 

White Cream Sauce 102 

Soups 

Bean Broth 15 

Bean Tapioca Soup 14 

Bean and Tomato Soup 15 

Celery and Tomato Soup 15 

18 — Cook Book 



Clear Tomato Soup 18 

Corn and Tomato Soup 17 

Corn Soup 16 

Cream Celery Soup 16 

Cream Corn Soup 16 

Cream of Tomato Soup 19 

Cream Pea Soup 18 

Cream Potato Soup 24 

Cream Eice Soup 16 

Croutons for Soup 12 

Egg Balls for Soup 13 

Egg Dumplings for Soup 13 

Family Favorite 24 

Foundation of Cream Soups . . 12 

Fruit Soup 24 

German Lentil Soup 20 

Julienne Soup 23 

Kinds of Soup 11 

Lentil and Tomato Soup 20 

Lima Bean Soup 15 

Mock Chicken Soup 21 

Noodles for Soup 18 

Nut Chowder Soup 17 

Okra Soup 22 

Plain Tomato Soup ....>. 19 

Plain Vegetable Soup 22 

Eice and Vegetable Soup 17 

Tomato Bisque 18 

Tomato Vermicelli Soup 20 

Vegetable Bouillon 14 

Vegetable Oyster Soup 22 

Vegetable Stock 12 

White Bean Soup 14 

White Swiss Soup 23 

Table Etiquette 

Don'ts for Waiters 259 

Family Dinner without Serv- 
ants 259 

General Eules for Waiters .... 256 

General Table Etiquette 251 

Laying the Table 259 

Personal Suggestions to 

Waiters 258 

Proper Manner of Eating 

Various Foods 255 



270 



VEGETAEIAN COOK BOOK 



Eules for Serving 256 

Setting the Table 256 

Side Table 261 

Simple Family Breakfast 263 

Simple Family Dinner 261 

Table Etiquette 251 

The Sideboard 260 

Toasts 

American or French 193 

Berry 195 

Boston Cream 191 

Cream 192 

Cream Gravy 192 

Cream Gravy Protose 194 

Cream of Tomato 194 

Egg on 195 

Milk 192 

Nun's 193 

Nuttolene 194 

Pea 194 

Protose 194 

Snowflake 193 

Tomato 193 

Zwieback 191 

Utensils 

Convenient Articles for the 

Kitchen 230 

General Utensils Needed in 

the Kitchen 237 

Graniteware 236 

Kitchen Utensils 235 

Number of Utensils 235 

Steelware 236 

Tinware 236 

Wood 236 

Vegetables 

Artichokes 99 

Asparagus No. 1 87 

Asparagus No. 2 87 

Asparagus Pompadour 88 

Asparagus, Stewed 88 

Beans, Baked 79 



Beans, Baked, with Tomato 

Sauce 79 

Beans, Puree of 79 

Beans, Stewed 79 

Beet and Potato Hash 97 

Beet Greens 96 

Beets 96 

Beets and Potatoes 97 

Beets, Baked 97 

Beet Stalks with Butter Sauce 96 

Brussels Sprouts, Plain 92 

Crumbs 92 

Brussels Sprouts, Plain 92 

Cabbage and Cream 90 

Cabbage, Baked, No. 1 91 

Cabbage, Baked, No. 2 91 

Cabbage, Holland Cream 91 

Cabbage, Scalloped 90 

Cabbage, Stewed 90 

Cabbage Stewed with Tomato . . 90 

Carrots a la Creme 86 

Carrots vrith Egg Sauce 86 

Cauliflower, Boiled, Plain .... 93 

Cauliflower, Browned 93 

Cauliflower, Stewed 92 

Cauliflower with Tomato Sauce 93 

Celery 84 

Celery, Stewed 85 

Corn, Novelty Baked 83 

Eggplant, Baked 89 

Eggplant Baked in Shell 88 

Eggplant, Scalloped, No. 1 . . . . 88 
Eggplant, Scalloped, No. 2- . . . 88 

Garbanzos, Stewed 98 

General Directions for Vege- 
tables 71 

Green Corn, Boiled 83 

Green Corn, Stewed 82 

Kornlet 83 

Lentils, Oriental Style 81 

Lentils with Onions 82 

New Lima Beans 80 

New Potatoes and Cream 75 

New Potatoes and Peas 78 

Onions 93 

Onions au Gratin 95 

Onions, Baked, No. 1 94 



INDEX 



271 



Onions, Baked, No. 2 94 

Onions, Boiled 94 

Onions, Stuffed 95 

Parsnips, Baked 85 

Parsnips in Egg Sauce 85 

Parsnips in Brown Gravy .... 85 

Parsnips, Stewed 86 

Peas, Green 80 

Peas, Puree of 81 

Peas, Split 81 

Potatoes 72 

Potatoes a la Creme 75 

Potatoes a la Delmonico 75 

Potatoes au Gratin 76 

Potatoes, Baked 73 

Potatoes, Browned, with Boast 77 
Potatoes, Hashed Browned ... 77 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise 77 

Potatoes, Mashed 73 

Potatoes, Boasted 77 

Potatoes, Scalloped, No. 1 .... 74 
Potatoes, Scalloped, No. 2 .... 74 
Potatoes Stewed with Celery . . 78 

Potatoes, Stuffed 76 

Potato Patties 76 

Potato Puffs 74 



Salsify (Vegetable Oysters) 

Stewed 89 

Slaw, Hot 92 

Spinach 88 

Stewed Tomatoes and Corn ... 84 

String-Beans, Plain Boiled ... 80 

Succotash 80 

Summer Squash 95 

Summer Squash, Cream 95 

Sweet Potatoes 78 

Tomatoes, Baked 84 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 84 

Tomatoes, Scrambled 84 

Tomatoes; Stewed 83 

Tomato Hollandaise Potatoes . . 78 

Turnips, Holland Boiled 87 

Turnips, Mashed 86 

Vegetable Oysters, Scalloped . . 89 
Winter Squash (Hubbard), 

Baked 96 

"Winter Squash (Hubbard), 

Mashed 95 

Young Beets 97 

Young Beets, Stewed 98 

Young Turnips 86 




The Practical Guide 
to Heaitli 

By F. M. Rossiter, B.S., M.D. 



A Simple Treatise on Anatomy, 
Physiology, and Hygiene 



AS A PHYSIOLOGY it gives all the essential 
facts concerning the anatomy, physiology, and hy- 
giene of the body. 

AS A TEXT-BOOK it is invaluable for use in 
the home and by nurses, as it gives briefly, but 
concisely, the diagnosis and treatment of aJl dis- 
eases and abnormal conditions that are met in 
every-day life. 

AS A FAMILY GUIDE it will be found a 
safe counselor in all accidents, emergencies, and 
household complaints. The symptoms and treat- 
ment of all common ailments are given, and a com- 
plete index makes every feature of the book easy 
of access. 

It contains 635 pages, seventy half-tone illustra- 
tions, and twelve colored plates. 



Pacific Press Publishing Assn. 

Mountain View, Cal. 
Portland, Ore. Calgary, Alberta Kantaa City, Mo. 



