itllmri^^ 



m \ II 




MY BEST 
250 




at 



inHW^wwhw ' <kl»w< " w w iM^^vJ l3 



Cornell University Library 
TX 715.R816 



My best 250 recipes, 




3 1924 001 692 288 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001692288 



MY BEST 

250 
RECIPES 



By Mrs. Sarah Tyson Rorer 

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, 
Canning and Preserving, and many other 
popular works on cookery 



ARNOLD AND COMPANY 
PHILADELPHIA 



llt^S 



Copyright 1907 by Sarah Tyson Rorbs 
All Rights Reserved 



CONTENTS 

My Best Twenty Soups 

My Best Twenty Recipes for Fish 

My Best Twenty Ways of Cooking 

Meat ..... 
My Best Twenty Sauces 
My Best Vegetable Recipes . 
My Best Salad Recipes . 
My Best Ten Fruit Preserves 
My Best Ten Fruit Desserts . 
My Best Ten Cold Luncheon Dishes 
My Best Fifteen Ices 
My Best Twenty Summer Recipes 
My Best Twenty Left-Overs . 
My Best Game and Poultry Recipes 
My Best Twenty Breads and Biscuits 
My Best Christmas Candies, Cakes and 
Puddings 



5 
17 

29 
41 
53 
59 
65 
73 
81 

89 

97 
109 

121 
133 

145 



MY BEST 
TWENTY SOUPS 

It must be understood that clear meat soups 

.do not contain nourishment, but when served 

warm they are stimulating and draw into the 

stomach the gastric secretions which prepare it for 

the heavy food which is to follow. 

Clear soups are the best dinner soups. Soups 
containing milk, thickening of butter and flour, 
rice, etc., are nutritious, and make excellent lunch- 
eon soups. 

HOW CLEAR SOUP SHOULD BE MADE 

Clear soup is made from a shin of beef, or 
from beef and veal; the latter makes a fine con- 
somme. Bouillon, also a clear soup, is made from 
lean beef. Stock is made from lean meat and 
bone in the proportion of one pound of meat to 
three-quarters of a pound of bone. Long, slow 
cooking is necessary to draw out the extractives 
and to dissolve the gelatine. The fibre of beef, 
which holds a large proportion of nourishment, is 
not soluble in water; the albumin is the only 
nutrient extracted, but in boiling this is coagu- 
lated and strained out, and is lost to the soup. 
All bones left from roasts, steaks and the car- 



6 My Best 250 Recipes 

casses of poultry should be used for stock and 
bits of meat. Crack the bones, put them in the 
bottom of a kettle, cut the meat into small bits, 
or chop it, and put it on top of the bones ; cover 
with cold water in the proportion of one quart 
of water to half a pound of meat and its propor- 
tion of bone. Bring quickly to the boiling point 
and skim. An ordinary shin of beef requires five 
quarts of water, while the leg, from the hind- 
quarter being heavier, requires seven quarts. 
Push the kettle to the back of the stove where 
it will simmer at 180° Fahrenheit for five hours. 
Make stock twice a week in summer; once in 
winter. 

To save fuel, make the stock on ironing or 
baking days, or over the simmering burner of a 
gas-stove. To have good, clear soup the cooking 
must be evenly done from beginning to end. If it 
boils rapidly for five minutes it is clouded; if it 
drops below the simmering point, 180° Fahren- 
heit, it is greasy, has a bad flavor, and will not 
solidify when cold. One hour before the stock is 
finished add the flavorings — an onion with twelve 
whole cloves stuck in, two bay leaves, a small 
carrot chopped fine, a level teaspoonful of celery 
seed, a teaspoonful of whole peppercorns, and a 
tablespoonful of salt. At the end of the cooking 
strain and stand it aside to cool. When cold 
remove the fat from the surface and it will be 



My Best 250 Recipes 7 

ready for use. Stock made in this way will keep 
a week in winter and three or four days in sum- 
mer ; from it almost all clear soups are made. 

CONSOMME A LA COLBERT 

Drop poached eggs into hot, clear soup just 
as you send it to the table. 

CONSOMME WITH MACARONI 

Put small bits of carefully cooked macaroni 
into hot, clear soup. 

CONSOMME A LA ROYALE 

Beat the whites and yolks of two eggs until 
well mixed. Add four tablespoonfuls of con- 
somme, two drops of onion juice, a palatable sea- 
soning of salt and pepper. Put the mixture in a 
cup and stand it in hot water until the custard is 
set. Cut into blocks, and add to hot consomme 
at serving-time. 

SOUP JULIENNE 

Add all kinds of cooked green vegetables to 
hot clear soup and serve. 

GERMAN CONSOMME 

Beat two eggs without separating until light ; 
add six tablespoonfuls of farina slowly, and salt 



8 My Best 250 Recipes 

and pepper to taste ; saute in olive oil or suet, cut 
into blocks, and drop them in hot consomme at 
serving-time. 

GRANDMOTHER'S SOUP 

Put two level tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two of flour in a saucepan ; mix. Add a quart of 
consomme; stir until boiling. Add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and a 
teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Beat an egg 
without separating until light; add half a cupful 
of grated bread; add this to the boiling brown 
soup. Stir and boil for a moment, and serve. 

CELERY BISQUE 

Chop fine sufficient celery tops to make half 
a pint; put them in a saucepan with a pint of 
water and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes; 
drain, press perfectly dry. Put this water in a 
double boiler; add a pint of milk, two level table- 
spoonfuls of butter rubbed with two of flour ; stir 
until thick and smooth, and add twenty-five 
oysters that have been drained and washed. Cook 
until the gills curl, and serve at once. 

MOCK OYSTER SOUP 

Wash a quarter of a pound of salt codfish; 
simmer gently for thirty minutes with a quart 



My Best 250 Recipes 9 

of water; and six roots of salsify that have been 
scraped and cut into slices. Remove the codfish; 
add a pint of milk, a level teaspoonful of salt, a 
saltspoonful of pepper and two level tablespoon- 
fuls of butter rubbed with three of flour. Stir 
the mixture until it reaches the boiling point, and 
serve with oyster crackers. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

Put a can of corn, a tablespoonful of grated 
onion, a bay leaf, a level teaspoonful of salt, a 
quart of milk and a saltspoonful of pepper in a 
double boiler. Rub together two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and three of flour ; add to the hot mix- 
ture, stir constantly until the water boils in the 
outside boiler; press through a colander, reheat, 
and serve with croiitons. 

VEGETABLE PUREE 

Put two ounces of suet or olive oil in a sauce- 
pan. When hot add two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped carrots, a chopped turnip, half a pint of 
celery chopped in blocks, one good-sized onion, 
and half a teaspoonful of red pepper ; stir over the 
fire until the vegetables are slightly browned ; add 
a quarter of a cupful of rice and two quarts of 
cold water ; bring slowly to boiling point and sim- 
mer gently for one hour. Press through a col- 
ander. Moisten three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 



lo My Best 250 Recipes 

in half a pint of milk; add this to the mixture; 
bring to boiling point; add a teaspoonful of salt 
and a saltspoonful of pepper; take from the fire, 
stir in a level tablespoonful of butter, and serve 
with croiitons. 

EAST INDIAN CURRY SOUP 

Put a rounding tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan ; add a good-sized onion sliced, and cook 
slowly, without browning the butter ; add a large 
sour apple pared, cored and sliced, a teaspoonful 
of thyme, a teaspoonful of curry powder, a sprig 
of parsley, a level teaspoonful of salt and a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Stir; add a quart of 
good chicken stock and two tablespoonfuls of 
rice. Cover and simmer gently for fifteen min- 
utes, and then send to the table without straining. 

EGG SOUP 

Put four tablespoonfuls of washed rice in a 
quart of good stock and simmer gently for twenty 
minutes. Press through a sieve, return to the 
kettle; add a saltspoonful of pepper and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of two eggs ; 
add a little of the hot soup, and then turn the 
mixture into the kettle. Stir for a moment, do 
not boil, take from the fire, and serve with large 
squares of toasted bread. 



My Best 250 Recipes 11 

RABBIT SOUP 

It is a well-known fact that clear soap made 
from rabbit or Belgian hare, especially the latter, 
has a greater amount of nourishment than clear 
soup made from beef and mutton. 

Skin, clean and singe a good-sized hare ; cut 
oflf the hindlegs and shoulders, divide the remain- 
ing part into three pieces. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil in a saucepan ; add an onion sliced. 
Cook slowly without browning. Cut the rabbit 
into pieces ; roll each piece in flour, drop the pieces 
in the oil, shake until a golden brown, being care- 
ful not to brown the oil. Add a bay leaf, a salt- 
spoonful of celery seed, and two quarts of boiling 
water ; bring to boiling point and skim ; cover and 
simmer gently for an hour and a half ; add a level 
teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Take up the hare, remove the meat from the 
bones, cut it in blocks. Strain the soup, return it 
to the kettle; add the meat, a teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet and a teaspoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. Put into a tureen two hard-boiled eggs, 
and half a lemon cut in thin slices ; pour the soup 
over this, and serve at once with crescent-shaped 
croiitons. 

FIFTEEN-MINUTE SOUP 

Put a quart can of tomatoes, a slice of onion, 
a level teaspoonful of salt, a bay leaf, a blade of 



12 My Best 250 Recipes 

mace and a pint of water or stock in a saucepan ; 
bring to boiling point, and add two level table- 
spoonfuls of butter rubbed with four tablespoon- 
fuls of flour; stir constantly until boiling; press 
through a sieve, reheat, and serve with croutons. 

LENTIL SOUP 

Lentil soup has meat value. Wash the lentils, 
cover them with cold water, and soak over night ; 
in the morning, drain. Add a quart of stock, a 
pint of water, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, a level teaspoonful of salt, and 
simmer for about two hours, until the lentils are 
tender. Press through a colander, then through 
a sieve, and return the puree to the kettle. Rub 
a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour together, 
add them to the soup, and stir until boiling. Add 
a small onion grated, bring tO' boiling point, and 
turn at once into the soup-tureen. Sprinkle over 
the soup a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and 
serve with croutons. 

To give variety moisten a tablespoonful of 
flour gradually in a half a cupful of milk, and 
add it to the soup intead of the butter. 

GERMAN BROWN BROTH 

Scrape and cut into dice two carrots; pare 
and cut into the same shape one potato; slice an 
onion. Put four tablespoonfuls of olive oil in a 



My Best 250 Recipes 13 

saucepan ; add the vegetables and shake until they 
are a golden brown. Take them out with a skim- 
mer and put them in a kettle; add one quart of 
boiling water, a bay leaf, a teaspoonful of salt and 
a saltspoonful of pepper. Simmer gently for 
twenty minutes. Press through a puree-sieve; 
return to the kettle, and add a teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet. Pour into a hot tureen, and 
serve at once with a dozen cheese balls. 

BISQUE OF RICE 

Wash half a cupful of rice, throw it into a 
quart of boiling water and boil rapidly for ten 
minutes ; drain. Put it in a double boiler with one 
quart of milk, half a cupful of finely chopped 
celery and a bay leaf; cover and cook slowly for 
thirty minutes. While this is cooking cut a good- 
sized onion into slices, put it with two tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil or butter in a shallow frying-pan ; 
cook slowly until the onion is tender, but not 
brown; add this to the mixture in the farina- 
boiler ; press the whole through a colander, return 
to the double boiler; add hastily a tablespoonful 
of butter ; press through a fine sieve, and serve. 

CREAM OF SPINACH 

Cut the leaves from two quarts of spinach, 
wash them thoroughly and throw them in a per- 



14 My Best 250 Recipes 

fectly dry soup-kettle; stand the kettle over the 
fire and stir constantly for fifteen minutes until 
the spinach is wilted and cooked. Drain, saving 
the water. Chop the spinach very fine, then press 
it through a puree-sieve ; add it to the water and 
a small onion grated ; put this with a quart of milk 
in a double boiler. Rub a rounding tablespoonful 
of butter and two of flour together, add them to 
the milk, stir until smooth ; add a level teaspoonf ul 
of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and if you 
have it, half a teaspoonful of beef extract that has 
been dissolved in a little of the soup. Strain at 
once into a tureen, and serve with croiitons or 
breadsticks. 

PUREE OF CHESTNUTS 

Shell and blanch a pint of chestnuts; cover 
them with a quart of boiling water ; add a slice of 
onion, a little chopped celery, a bay leaf and half 
a teaspoonful of paprika. Boil gently for thirty 
minutes. Press through a colander, add a pint of 
chicken stock and a pint of milk. Allow this to 
come slowly to the boiling point. Rub together 
two rounding tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
flour; stir this into the soup carefully until you 
have a perfectly smooth mixture. Add a level 
teaspoonful of salt. Strain through a fine sieve, 
reheat, and serve with croiitons. 



My Best 250 Recipes 15 

PEANUT SOUP 

Put a quart of milk in a double boiler; add 
half a pint of peanut butter, a small onion grated, 
half a cupful of finely chopped celery and a dash 
of white pepper ; cover and cook slowly for twenty 
minutes. Moisten a level tablespoonful of corn- 
starch in a little cold milk; add to the hot soup, 
stir until smooth and thick. Strain into a hot 
tureen, add a teaspoonful of paprika, and serve. 



MY BEST TWENTY 
RECIPES FOR FISH 

Select perfectly fresh fish, with firm flesh, 
bright eyes and gills, and those in full season. 
Results are always more satisfactory where one 
kind of fish is not substituted for another in a 
given recipe. For instance, do not use canned 
salmon if fresh salmon is called for in the recipe, 
and expect good results. Nor should haddock be 
substituted for rock; the flesh is very different 
both in texture and flavor. Serve potatoes with 
fish and, when in season, cucumbers, or lettuce 
with French dressing. 

SALT MACKEREL 

Wash the fish, soak it overnight skin side 
up. Next morning dry, put it in a wire broiler, 
and broil, flesh side down, until a golden brown. 
Turn and broil the skin side quickly. Put on a 
heated platter, spread with butter that has been 
rubbed with an equal quantity of lemon juice, and 
serve. 

CREAMED CODFISH 

Pick apart half a pound of salt codfish, wash 
it thoroughly in two waters, soak it overnight in 



1 8 My Best 250 Recipes 

cold water. Next morning drain, cover with 
boiling water, and cook below the boiling point 
for five minutes. Drain and press. Rub one 
tablespoooful of butter and one of flour together, 
add half a pint of milk, stir until boiling; add a 
dash of pepper and the codfish; cover and stand 
over hot water for ten minutes. Add the beaten 
yolk of an egg, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and serve with plain boiled potatoes. 

PLANKED FISH 

A fish plank should be made of hardwood, 
sixteen inches long and twelve inches wide. Heat 
it very hot, place the fish skin side down, dust 
with salt and pepper, baste with melted butter, and 
put it in the under oven of the gas stove, or before 
a wood fire, or on the shelf in a coal oven. Cook 
quickly for fifteen minutes; baste again, decorate 
with potatoes a la Duchess, pressed through a 
star tube ; put it back in the oven and cook until 
the potatoes are brown. Garnish with parsley and 
lemon and send to the table. 

DEVILED OYSTERS 

Wash and drain fifty oysters; shake them 
over the fire until the gills are curled. Drain, 
saving the liquor. Chop the oysters fine. Rub 
together one tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour ; add the oyster liquor and sufficient milk to 



My Best 250 Recipes 19 

make half a pint; stir until boiling. Add the 
oysters, the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten, a 
level teaspoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a tablespoonful of 
chopped celery. Turn this in a baking-dish or 
into individual dishes or shells, cover thickly with 
soft breadcrumbs and bake in a quick oven until 
browned. 

FILLETS OF FISH 

Clean a good-sized rock, wash and dry. 
Hold the flesh firm and with a sharp knife cut it 
from the bone from tail to head. Turn the fish 
on the other side and do the same, pressing the 
flesh firmly with your hand. Cut the flesh in 
strips about an inch wide ; roll each, fasten with a 
wooden skewer, dust with salt and pepper. Cook 
for three minutes in deep, hot fat, drain on brown 
paper, arrange neatly on a napkin, garnish with 
parsley and lemon and send to the table. 

SALT CODFISH WITH MACARONI 

Break two ounces of macaroni in two-inch 
lengths; throw them into boiling water and boil 
rapidly for thirty minutes; drain. Blanch for 
fifteen minutes in cold water; then cut in pieces 
half an inch long. Wash half a pound of boneless 
salt cod; cut it in dice, cover with cold water. 
Bring just to boiling point, but do not allow it to 



20 My Best 250 Recipes 

boil ; drain, cover again with boiling water and let 
it stand for five minutes, then drain. Rub 
together one rounding tablespoonful of butter 
with one of flour; add half a pint of strained 
tomato, a tablespoonful of grated onion, half a 
teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of white or 
black pepper. Stir until boiling. Add the maca- 
roni and fish, stand over hot water for five min- 
utes and serve in a heated dish. 

FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS 

Drain and wash fifty oysters; cook until the 
gills curl; drain, saving the liquor. Add to it 
sufficient milk to make a pint. Put two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour in a 
saucepan, mix; add the liquor and milk, and stir 
until boiling. Add a rounding teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of cayenne, and the oysters. Heat over 
hot water. Beat the yolks of two eggs with four 
tablespoonfuls of cream, stir them quickly in the 
oysters; take from the fire, and serve on toast, 
or in a round dish garnished with triangular 
pieces of toast; sprinkle finely-chopped parsley 
over the top. 

TO FRY SMELTS 

Wash the smelts, make a slight opening at 
the gills with a very sharp knife or scissors ; draw 



My Best 250 Recipes 21 

them between the thumb and finger, from tail to 
head; press the intestines out at the gill opening, 
keeping the fish whole. Wash and dry and dust 
with salt and black pepper. Beat an egg until the 
white and yolk are thoroughly mixed ; add a table- 
spoonful of water and mix again. Dip the fish in 
the egg and cover them thoroughly with seasoned 
breadcrumbs and fry quickly in deep, hot fat. 
Drain on brown paper ; dish on a napkin and serve 
with Tartar sauce. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Wash and cut in squares one pound of any 
white fish; pare, cut in dice three medium-sized 
potatoes; chop fine one large onion; put in the 
bottom of a kettle a layer of the potatoes ; then a 
layer of fish, then tomatoes; add a tablespoonful 
of onion, half a teaspoonful of powdered thyme, 
a saltspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, half a tea- 
spoonful of celery seed, and so continue until the 
materials are all used. Have the last layer pota- 
toes. Pour over a pint of boiling water, cover 
the kettle and cook over a moderate fire, without 
stirring, for twenty minutes. Meantime heat a 
pint of milk in a double boiler ; take the chowder 
from the fire, and cover the top with crushed 
water-crackers. Pour over the milk, add a table- 
spoonful of butter cut in bits, and serve. 



2 2 My Best 250 Recipes 

CODFISH BALLS AND CODFISH SOUFFLE 

Pick apart half a pound of salt cod, cover 
with cold water, bring to boiling point and drain. 
Cover it again with boiling water and. let stand 
for five minutes; drain and press; add a pint of 
hot mashed potatoes, a rounding tablespoonful of 
butter, a saltspoonful of pepper and the yolks of 
two eggs; mix thoroughly; form in balls, dip in 
beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs and fry in deep, 
hot fat. Serve plain or with tomato sauce. 

Persons who do not eat fried foods may 
change the recipe into codfish soufBe by adding 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs and baking the 
mixture until a golden brown. 

JERUSALEM FISHBALLS 

Carefully remove the skin and then pick the 
flesh from a good-sized rock or haddock. Wash 
the skin, the head and the other rough pieces ; put 
them in a saucepan; add a quart of water, a bay 
leaf, a slice of onion, a blade of mace, four cloves 
and two cloves of garlic, mashed ; cover and sim- 
mer for one hour. While this is cooking chop the 
flesh of the fish very fine, adding about twelve 
blanched and dried almonds, a level teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonful of grated onion, a salt- 
spoonful of black pepper. Mix thoroughly, form 
in balls the size of an English walnut, and drop 



My Best 250 Recipes 23 

them in the pot with the fish that is cooking ; cover 
and cook for thirty minutes. Lift the balls with 
a skimmer and stand them at once in a very cold 
place. Strain the stock. Beat six eggs until thor- 
oughly mixed, add to them gradually the boiling 
stock, which should now measure three-quarters 
of a pint; stand the mixture over hot water, stir 
constantly until thick and jelly-like, take from the 
fire and press through a fine sieve. Add gradually 
the juice of three lemons, or half lemon juice and 
half tarragon vinegar. When ready to serve roll 
each ball in the dressing ; form them in a pyramid 
on a square dish or plate, put over the remaining 
quantity of dressing, garnish with parsley and 
serve. 

FISH TIMBALE 

Remove the skin and bone from half a pound 
of halibut or other white fish. Put it twice 
through a meat-chopper. Add a pint of soft 
breadcrumbs to a gill of milk; cook to a smooth 
paste and add it gradually to the fish; add six 
tablespoonfuls of cream, a level teaspoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of white pepper. Press 
this mixture through a sieve and then stir in care- 
fully the well-beaten whites of five eggs. Grease 
a large mould. Garnish the bottom with chopped 
parsley or chopped truffles or mushrooms, or 
nicely cooked green peas; fill the mixture in the 



24 My Best 250 Recipes 

mould and stand it in a baking-pan half filled with 
water ; cover with oiled paper and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for three-quarters of an hour. When 
done, turn out on the serving-dish. Pour around 
either cream, lobster or shrimp sauce. 

HALIBUT A LA FLAMANDE 
Purchase a small, very thick halibut steak. 
Wash it in cold water, dry, and dust it with salt 
and pepper. Cover the bottom of a baking-dish 
with two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, two 
of chopped celery, and one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley; put on top the halibut steak, 
brush with melted butter and bake in a quick oven 
for thirty minutes. When done lift carefully to 
a heated dish. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix; 
add one pint of strained tomatoes; stir until boil- 
ing; add a level teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful 
of mace and one of black pepper. Strain this 
around the fish, garnish the top with carefully 
boiled potato balls, baste with melted butter, dust 
with finely-chopped parsley and send to the table. 

OYSTER STEW 

Drain, wash and drain again fifty good fat 
oysters; shake over the fire until the gills curl. 
Heat a quart of milk in a double boiler, add it 
hastily to the oysters; take from the fire; add a 



My Best 250 Recipes 25 

rounding teaspoonf ul of salt, twelve whole pepper- 
corns, crushed, two level tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and, if you like, a dash of cayenne. Serve with 
oyster-crackers. If thickening is liked rub a 
tablespoonful of butter with one of flour and add 
to the milk before adding it to the oysters. 

FISH, HAWAIIAN STYLE 

Clean, wash and dry a three-pound haddock, 
and dust it with salt and pepper. Put four table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil or butter in a shallow bak- 
ing-pan. When hot drop in th^ fish; brown on 
both sides, then place it in a hot oven and cook 
slowly for thirty minutes, turning once. While 
this is cooking put two good-sized potatoes that 
have been peeled, half a can of tomatoes, a large 
onion grated, a clove of garlic mashed, a salt- 
spoonful of ground cloves, and a bay leaf in 
a saucepan; cook for five minutes and press 
through a sieve. Add a level teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of cayenne, one sweet chilli chopped fine, 
and a rounding tablespoonful of butter. Place the 
fish on a heated dish, pour over this mixture, and 
send to the table with a plate of plain boiled 
potatoes. 

OYSTER GUMBO 

Singe, clean and cut as for a fricassee one 
fowl ; put it in a baking-pan ; add one onion sliced, 



26 My Best 250 Recipes 

half a pint of water, and bake until tender. Wash 
and cut in thin slices a quart of young okra ; put 
it in a saucepan; add a pint of water and cook 
slowly for half an hour. Lift the chicken to a 
soup kettle ; add a quart of chicken stock or boil- 
ing water, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. 
Add a rounding teaspoonful of salt, a level salt- 
spoonful of cayenne, and, if you have it, a tea- 
spoonful of paprika. Add the okra and fifty oys- 
ters; cover the saucepan, cook for five minutes 
and send at once to the table. 

BAKED BLUEFISH 

Take the intestines out at the gill opening, 
wash and dry the fish. Mix half a pint of bread- 
crumbs with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of 
black pepper, and stuff the fish. Then put it in a 
baking-pan, baste with melted butter, and add 
half a cupful of boiling water. Dust the fish 
thickly with flour and bake in a quick oven for 
three-quarters of an hour, basting several times. 
Serve with tomato sauce and potato balls. 

POTATO AND FISH TIMBALE 

Cut large potatoes into halves lengthwise. 
Scoop out the centres, leaving a wall a quarter of 
an inch in thickness. Stand the potatoes in a 
baking-pan, baste the sides with melted butter, 



My Best 250 Recipes 27 

and bake for twenty minutes. Pick apart a pound 
of cold cooked fresh codfish. Dust it with a 
level teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of 
white pepper. Pour over a tablespoonful of care- 
fully melted butter and a few drops of onion 
juice. Mix lightly with a fork. Fill this in the 
potatoes, dust the tops with breadcrumbs, place 
in the centre of each a bit of butter, and bake 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve 
cream sauce. 

FISH A LA CREME 

Pick apart sufficient cold boiled fish to make 
a pint. Rub together a rounding tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour; add half a pint of milk, 
stir until boiling; take from the fire, add the 
flaked fish, a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful 
of pepper; toss gently without breaking the fish 
and stand it over hot water until thoroughly 
heated. Serve in pate shells or bread boxes. 



MY BEST 

TWENTY WAYS OF 

COOKING MEAT 

CREAMED CHIPPED BEEF 

Chip a pound of dried beef very thin and 
pull it apart in small pieces. If it is very salt 
soak it in boiling water for fifteen minutes. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan; 
add the beef and stir over the fire until thoroughly 
heated; then sprinkle over it two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of flour; mix and cook. Add 
half a pint of stock and half a pint of milk. 
Stir until boiling. Add a teaspoonful of kitchen 
bouquet and a dash of pepper. Take from the 
fire and add the yolk of an egg beaten with four 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Heat quickly and serve 
in a deep dish garnished with toast. 

BEEF OLIVES 

Cut a very thin slice of round of beef in 
strips four inches long and two inches wide. 
Mix half a cupful of soft breadcrumbs, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, a dash of pepper and a tablespoonful of 
melted butter. Put a thin layer of this over each 



30 My Best 250 Recipes 

little piece of beef; roll and tie tightly. Heat 
four ounces of suet in a frying-pan; dust the 
rolls with flour, and brown them in the pan; then 
put them in a stewing-pan. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour to the fat in the frying-pan; mix; 
add a pint of stock or water; when boiling add 
a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, and strain it over the rolls. 
Cover and stew gently for an hour and a half. 
Wash and soak in boiling water a dozen stoned 
olives. Cut a piece of stale bread in a four-inch 
cube; dip it in milk or beaten egg, and plunge 
it in deep, hot fat, or you may toast it in the 
oven. Stand this in the middle of the platter. 
After removing the strings heap the beef 
"olives" around the crouton and strain the sauce 
over them. Arrange the "olives" in little piles 
at the ends of the dish. 

MOCK FILLET 

Remove the muscle from a good-sized flank 
steak and trim it in shape. Cover it with chopped 
parsley, then with chopped onion, and dust it 
lightly with pepper. Roll the steak lengthwise, 
tie it in three places, giving it the shape of a fillet. 
Put it in a pan with a cupful of chopped celery 
and onion mixed, a bay leaf and half a pint of 
stock or water, and a teaspoonful of salt. Bake 
for one hour in a quick oven, basting frequently. 



My Best 250 Recipes 31 

When done dish and remove the strings. Rub 
together in the pan two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and two of flour ; add half a pint of strained toma- 
toes and a half a pint of stock, and stir constantly 
until smooth. Add a teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce, half a teaspoonful of salt, and strain 
it over the "fillet." Serve with potato croquettes 
and spinach. 

BRAIZED CALF'S LIVER 

Wash and scald a small calf's liver. Place 
it in a baking-pan, the bottom of which is well 
covered with chopped carrot, onion and half a cup- 
ful of chopped celery tops; add a quart of stock, 
a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pep- 
per. Cover the pan and bake the liver in a 
moderate oven for two hours, basting once or 
twice. While the liver is baking cook in a 
separate pan two carrots cut in blocks; heat a 
can of tender peas, and boil carefully a pint of 
tender celery. Dish the liver, drain the water 
from the vegetables to the pan in which the liver 
was cooked; boil rapidly for ten minutes while 
you rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two of flour; add a pint of water from the pan, 
stir until boiling, and then add a teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet, a level teaspoonful of salt and 
a saltspoonful of pepper. Put piles of the mixed 



32 My Best 250 Recipes 

vegetables at the ends of the platter, strain over 
the sauce and garnish the dish with triangular 
pieces of toast. Serve with macaroni or spa- 
ghetti a la Italienne. 

BEEF CHILLI CON-CANE 

Put six large sweet chillies in the oven until 
the skin cracks; peel them, remove the seeds and 
chop the flesh very fine. Cut one pound of beef 
from the round in cubes of half an inch. Put 
them in an iron saucepan ; add two tablespoonf uls 
of olive oil, cover the saucepan and stew in the 
oil for at least an hour. Then add the chilli, half 
a pint of thick, strained tomatoes, one large onion 
chopped fine, two cloves of garlic mashed, and 
a level teaspoonful of salt ; cover and stew gently 
for another hour. Serve with rice. 

MASKED CHOPS 

Have mutton chops neatly "Frenched ;" broil 
them for five minutes over a bright fire. Have 
ready four potatoes, boiled, mashed and nicely 
seasoned; heap them neatly on one side of the 
chops. Dip them in egg, then in breadcrumbs, 
and fry for about two minutes in deep, hot fat. 
Arrange the chops on the platter, surround them 
with nicely cooked and seasoned peas, and trim 
the bones with paper quills. 



My Best 25'o Recipes 33 

CHOPPED STEAK 

Put two pounds of lean beef through a 
meat-chopper; add two level teaspoonfuls of salt 
and a saltspoonful of pepper; mix thoroughly 
and form into one large steak. Broil slowly 
over a clear fire or in a hot pan; cook on one 
side, then turn and cook on the other for about 
ten minutes. Dish on a heated plate, and put 
over it a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, or serve with tomato or 
mushroom sauce. 

WAVERLY COLLARED BEEF 

Corn a six-pound piece of brisket by cov- 
ering it with brine, sufificiently strong to float 
an egg, for four or five days. Turn the meat 
every other day. When ready to cook grate 
two large carrots, a stick of horseradish, and 
mix them with half a pint of finely chopped pars- 
ley. Spread a layer of this on the corned beef, 
keeping it well to the middle; roll very tightly, 
fasten with skewers and bind with strong twine. 
Roll in cheesecloth, place in a kettle, cover with 
cold water, bring slowly to a boil and simmer 
at 180° Fahrenheit for four hours. Remove the 
cheesecloth, put the meat on a tray, place a heavy 
weight on top and leave it overnight. Next 
morning cut the strings and remove skewers. 
In serving cut in very thin slices. 



34 My Best 250 Recipes 

BAKED SWEETBREADS 

After washing the sweetbreads and removing 
the "tubes" put them in boiHng water; add a 
teaspoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, a 
bay leaf, a slice of onion, and cook gently for 
three-quarters of an hour. Drain and save the 
liquor for stock. When the sweetbreads are cool 
remove the membrane and place them in a baking- 
pan with half a cupful of chopped celery and half 
a pint of the boiling stock. Bake in a very quick 
oven, about 400" Fahrenheit, for three-quarters 
of an hour, basting frequently. If you have 
glaze put a little over each sweetbread and put 
them back in the oven for five minutes to "fix" it. 
Cover the bottom of the serving-dish with a pint 
of nicely seasoned green peas. Dish the sweet- 
breads in the peas. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

Boil the sweetbreads according to the above 
recipe. When cold pick them apart, rejecting 
the membrane. Drain, wash and chop fine a 
can of mushrooms and add them to the sweet- 
breads. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter and two of flour ; add a pint of milk, and stir 
until boiling. Then add a level teaspoonful of 
salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the sweet- 
breads and mushrooms. Cover and stand over 



My Best 250 Recipes 35 

hot water for twenty minutes. Serve in a border 
of rice. 

CROWN ROAST 

Trim the bones of a rack of mutton the same 
as for 'Trenched" chops; cut through almost to 
the skin and fold around, skin side in, making a 
crown of the upper part ; fastening it in shape with 
twine and skewers. Bake in a quick oven for 
three-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. 
While it is baking, boil and mash six potatoes and 
heat a can of peas. When the roast is done 
remove the fastenings and dish it. Put the 
mashed potatoes in the centre, using a pastry-bag 
with a star tube for garnishing the top, and put 
the peas around the outside of the dish. 

FRENCH CHOPS WITH MUSHROOMS 

Remove the lean portion from twelve mutton 
chops. Wash and cut in thin slices one pound of 
fresh mushrooms and put them in a kettle with a 
tablespoonful of butter, a level teaspoonful of salt 
and a saltspoonful of pepper; cover and cook 
slowly for twenty minutes. Moisten a tablespoon- 
ful of flour with a little milk, add it to the mush- 
rooms, stir quickly until boiling, and then stand 
it over hot water for ten minutes while you broil 
the chops. Have ready toasted a round of bread 
for each chop ; arrange on a heated platter. Place 



36 My Best 250 Recipes 

the chops on the toast, dust them with salt and 
pepper, pour the mushroom sauce over and send 
them to the table. 

STEAK A LA BORDELAISE 

Trim a large inch-and-a-half-thick porter- 
house steak. Rub together a tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour, add a pint of good strong 
stock, a tablespoonful of chopped onion, a bay 
leaf, a saltspoonful of celery seed, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Bring to the boil and simmer gently for thirty 
minutes. Bake ten large mushrooms for ten 
minutes, add them to the sauce, and cover and 
stand it over hot water while you broil the steak 
quickly on each side until it is seared, then slowly 
for twenty minutes. Dish it on a hot platter, 
dust with salt and pepper. Add a tablespoonful 
of butter to the sauce, lift the mushrooms, place 
them over the top of the steak and pour the sauce 
over all. 

EGYPTIAN CANNELON 

Chop fine two pounds of beef from the 
round; add and mix two level teaspoonfuls of 
salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, half a pint of 
chopped almonds or pine nuts, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley and two tablespoon fuls of 



My Best 250 Recipes 37 

grated onion. Form in a compact roll, wrap in 
a piece of oiled paper, place in a baking-pan, add 
a cupful of stock and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Bake and baste, over the paper, for three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Remove the paper and lift the 
cannelon to the centre of a platter. Rub together 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour in 
the pan, add a pint of stock, stir until boiling; 
add a level teaspoonful of salt, and if you have it, 
two tablespoonfuls of tomato ketchup. Strain 
this over the roll and garnish with toast. 

FRICEO 

Cut one pound of the round of beef in cubes 
of one inch; flatten them with a hard blow from 
a potato-masher. Pare and slice three good-sized 
potatoes and four onions. Put a layer of pota- 
toes in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer 
of meat and onions; dust lightly with salt and 
pepper. Put in another layer of potatoes, meat, 
onion, salt and pepper. Peel and cut in halves 
four good-sized tomatoes, chopping fine, put them 
over the top of the dish and add a tablespoonful 
of butter cut in pieces. Pour over a half cupful 
of thick, sour cream. Cover, stand in a pan of 
boiling water and cook in a slow oven for two 
hours and a half. 



38 My Best 250 Recipes 

FRICANDEAU OF VEAL 

Select a thick slice from a leg of veal weigh- 
ing from four to six pounds. Cover the bottom 
of a baking-pan with chopped carrot, onion and 
celery; add two bay leaves. Bind the veal with 
a strip of muslin and place it on top of the 
chopped vegetables, adding a teaspoonful of salt 
and a pint of boiling stock. Cover the pan and 
bake the veal in a moderate oven, about 300° 
Fahrenheit, for four hours, basting once or twice. 
Dish the veal and garnish it with nicely cooked 
red beans. Rub together in the pan two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and two of flour; add half a 
pint of stock ; stir until boiling. Add a teaspoon- 
ful of kitchen bouquet, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and 
strain it over the meat. 

MUTTON BALLS 

Remove the meat from a shoulder of mutton, 
put it twice through a meat-chopper; add and 
mix two teaspoonfuls of salt, a saltspoonful of 
pepper and two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion. 
Form in balls about twice the size of English wal- 
nuts. Place them in a baking-pan ; pour in a 
pint of strained stewed tomatoes, add a bay leaf, 
and on each ball place a piece of butter the size 
of a pea. Bake in a quick oven for half an hour, 
basting four times. When done, dish the balls. 



My Best 250 Recipes 39 

Add to the sauce a tablespoonful of butter, and, 
if too thick, four tablespoonfuls of stock. Strain 
over the balls and garnish with rice. 

BLANQUETTE OF MUTTON 

Cut the meat from a shoulder of mutton in 
cubes half an inch in size. Put the bones in the 
bottom of a kettle, add a quart and a half of cold 
water; bring to boiling point, skim and add the 
meat. Cover, bring to a boil and simmer for an 
hour and a half. Rub together two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and two of flour; add them to the 
liquor in which the meat was cooked; stir until 
boiling, then add a level teaspoonful of salt and 
a saltspoonful of pepper. Take from the fire, and 
add the yolks of two eggs beaten with four table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Reheat but do not boil. 
Serve this in a border of boiled rice or potato. 

MOCK DUCK 

Remove the large bone from a shoulder of 
mutton, fill the space with toasted pine nuts or 
seasoned breadcrumbs and tie it in the shape of a 
duck. Make the leg and knuckle bone form the 
neck and bill, and fasten in the blade to represent 
the tail. Cover with oiled paper, brown in a quick 
oven for fifteen minutes, and then bake at a mod- 
erate temperature for one hour. Dish on a bed 



40 My Best 250 Recipes 

of cress. Serve with brown sauce and sweet 
potato croquettes or with rice. 

STUFFED BREAST OF MUTTON 

Make small pockets in a breast of mutton and 
fill them with chopped celery ; place it in a baking- 
pan, dust with a teaspoonful of salt and a salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Add a cupful of water and 
bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes, then 
more slowly for one hour. Serve with brown 
sauce. 



MY BEST 
TWENTY SAUCES 

The pleasures of the table are greatly in- 
creased by a variety of carefully made sauces; 
and homely dishes are made sightly by their use. 
While many sauces may seem elaborate and mys- 
terious to the uninitiated they are all quite simple 
when once understood. They may be, however, 
divided into two classes — the simple, every-day 
ones, as brown sauce, cream or white sauce, Eng- 
lish drawn butter, sauce Bechamel with a host of 
others; and the more elaborate sauces, such as 
mayonnaise, Bearnaise, sauce tartar, and those 
savory dish sauces which heighten the flavor of 
fish, flesh and game. These elaborate sauces are 
not in the least complicated, but require materi- 
als and seasonings not usually found in the every- 
day American kitchen,, and, moreover, require the 
delicate taste and trained hand of an intelligent 
cook. 

The chief causes of failure in even the more 
simple sauces are the use of inferior materials, 
and the lack of constant stirring and careful atten- 
tion while the sauce is heating. Lard or suet can- 
not be substituted for good, sweet butter; corn- 



42 My Best 250 Recipes 

starch or coarse flour will not take the place of 
fine flour. Ingredients must be carefully meas- 
ured. 

SAUCES ONE OF THE FINE ARTS OF COOKERY 

An untrained cook with an untrained palate 
cannot make a perfect sauce. Sauces and soups 
are the fine arts of cookery, and the person who 
undertakes them must understand tastes and 
flavors, as well as chemistry. Cold butter put into 
a hot saucepan spoils the sauce; saucepan and 
butter must heat slowly together, and the butter 
must not be left to boil, or both flavor and diges- 
tibility are spoiled. An iron saucepan will not 
produce a delicate sauce. Keep a dainty white 
granite pan especially for sauces. 

Each sauce should be fitted or adapted to the 
vegetable or meat or fish with which it is to be 
served. Fish requires a slightly acid sauce; for 
it either lemon juice or vinegar may be used. 
Roots used as vegetables, such as turnips, carrots, 
etc., not containing much nourishment, may be 
covered with a cream or an egg sauce. Aspara- 
gus, summer squash, cooked radishes, artichokes 
are better with sauce Hollandaise. 

One rounding or two level tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one rounding or two level tablespoon- 
fuls of flour will thicken half a pint of liquid. 
The rounding measurements are used in the reci- 



My Best 250 Recipes 43 

pes. Seasonings must be added to harmonize with 
the articles with which the sauce is to be served. 
Blend the fat and flour, and add the liquid 
cold, if possible. Stir constantly until the mix- 
ture boils. This method insures a smooth sauce, 
prevents the boiling of the butter and more thor- 
oughly cooks the starch. Eggs must be added 
after the sauce is taken from the fire; then cook 
slightly over hot water. Add salt and pepper 
at last. 

FOR FISH, MEAT AND POULTRY 

WHITE, MILK OR CREAM SAUCE 

Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and 
one of flour; add half a pint of cold milk, stir 
until boiling; take from the fire, add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of white pep- 
per. Serve with boiled mutton, potatoes, white 
meats or green vegetables. 

ENGLISH DRAWN BUTTER 

Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and 
one of flour. Add slowly half a pint of boiling 
water, beating all the while. Boil for a moment, 
take from the fire; add half a teaspoonful of salt, 
a saltspoonful of pepper, and then stir in another 
tablespoonful of butter. 

Serve with summer squash, stewed cucum- 
bers or other green vegetables. 



44 My Best 250 Recipes 

By adding the juice of half a lemon this 
sauce will answer nicely for fish. 

CHILLI SAUCE 

Peel, cut in halves and press out the seeds 
from six good-sized tomatoes ; chop the flesh very 
fine and drain the pulp in a sieve until dry. Add 
a saltspoonful of celery seed, a tablespoonful of 
grated onion, two tablespoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt and a drop of 
Tabasco. Rub the mixing-spoon with a clove of 
garlic. Stir the mixture for a moment and serve 
with boiled or broiled lobster, or with cold meats. 

If fresh, sweet, red chillies are at hand put 
one in the oven until the skin cracks, peel it off, 
remove the seeds, chop the flesh fine and use it in 
the place of Tabasco. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Heat in a saucepan a slice of onion, a bay 
leaf, a little chopped celery or a saltspoonful of 
celery seed, a clove of garlic mashed, and four 
tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. When re- 
duced one-half strain and 'cool. Rub together one 
tablespoonful of butter and one of flour ; add half 
a pint of boiling water and stir until boiling. 
Take from the fire; add the yolks of two eggs 
beaten; reheat; add a tablespoonful of butter cut 
in blocks, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 



My Best 250 Recipes 45 

pepper and the vinegar. Press through a fine 
sieve. 

This is one of the best of the fish sauces. 

A plain sauce Hollandaise may be made by 
adding the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten and 
two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar to English 
drawn butter. 

SAUCE BEARNAISE 

Beat the yolks of four eggs ; add four table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil and four of stock; stir and 
cook over hot water until jelly-like. Be careful 
or it will curdle. Take from the fire; add half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and 
the scented vinegar made according to the recipe 
for sauce Hollandaise. This sauce is served cold, 
as an accompaniment to broiled steak, or fish, 
either broiled or planked. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

Put the yolks of two eggs in a cold soup-dish 
or bowl; beat lightly, add a saltspoonful of salt, 
and slowly, drop by drop, six tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil; add a few drops of lemon juice and it is 
ready for use. 

Where a large quantity of dressing is needed 
add more oil. Two eggs will hold a pint of oil, 
providing you add a little vinegar now and then. 



46 My Best 250 Recipes 

SAUCE TARTAR 

Chop a tablespoonful of parsley very fine 
and rub it to a paste. Add it to a mayonnaise 
sauce; mix and add a tablespoonful of chopped 
capers, two or three olives chopped very fine, a 
small gherkin or a tablespoonful of any chopped 
pickle, and a teaspoonful of onion juice. 

This sauce may be served with lobster cut- 
lets, broiled or fried fish, deviled crabs or broiled 
tenderloin. 

CREAM OF HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Add to six tablespoonfuls of grated horse- 
radish, the yolk of one egg and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt; mix thoroughly; add a tablespoonful 
of good vinegar and then fold in carefully a 
quarter of a cupful of cream whipped to a stiff 
froth. If the horseradish is already in vinegar 
omit the tablespoonful of vinegar and press the 
horseradish until dry. 

This is one of the nicest of sauces to serve 
with cold roasted beef or mutton, or with hot 
or cold corned beef. 

SAUCE VINEGARETTE 

Add to four tablespoonfuls of good con- 
somme half a teaspoonful of paprika, two table- 
spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoon- 



My Best 250 Recipes 47 

ful of salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, a tablespoon- 
ful of capers, a tablespoonful of grated or finely 
chopped onion and two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
gherkin. 

Serve this sauce with boiled calf's head, 
pig's feet or plain boiled lobster. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE FOR FISH 

Pare and grate on a sieve four large crisp, 
fresh cucumbers; when the pulp is thoroughly 
drained turn it in a bowl; add a teaspoonful of 
pepper, one medium-sized onion grated, a level 
teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of tar- 
ragon vinegar. Mix and stir in just at serving- 
time six tablespoonfuls of cream whipped to a 
stiff froth. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR GAME 

Cook half a pint of soft, stale breadcrumbs, 
a pint of milk, one good-sized onion chopped very 
fine, a saltspoonful of ground mace, a saltspoonful 
of paprika and a level teaspoonful of salt for five 
minutes in a double boiler, stirring constantly. 
The mixture must be perfectly smooth. Add a 
rounding tablespoonful of butter; stir until it is 
melted; add four tablespoonfuls of thick cream 
and use at once for game or roasted guinea fowl. 



48 My Best 250 Recipes 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Put half a can of tomatoes, a slice of onion, 
a bay leaf and a blade of mace over the fire and 
cook gently for ten minutes. Rub a tablespoonful 
of butter and one of flour together and add them 
to the stewed tomatoes. Stir and cook a moment 
longer ; add half a teaspoonful of salt and a dash 
of pepper. Strain and use. 

CREAM TOMATO SAUCE FOR FRIED CHICKEN 

Strain sufficient stewed or canned tomatoes 
to make half a pint; add a slice of onion, a bay 
leaf and a blade of mace; cook gently until re- 
duced one-half. Rub together a tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour; add to the tomatoes; 
cook for a moment. Take from the fire and add 
half a cupful of very rich milk, half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Strain and 
serve. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Wash and pick over a quart of cranberries ; 
put them in a granite or porcelain saucepan with 
one pint of cold water ; cover the saucepan, bring 
to boiling point and boil rapidly for five minutes. 
Press through a colander. Add one pint of sugar, 
stir until the sugar is dissolved and turn the sauce 
out to cool. 



My Best 250 Recipes 49 

FRENCH TOMATO SAUCE 

Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and 
one of flour ; add half a pint of strained tomatoes ; 
stir and cook five minutes; add a teaspoonful of 
salt, one of onion juice and half a teaspoonful of 
ground mace. Rub the mixing-spoon with a clove 
of garlic; stir and cook the sauce a moment 
longer ; take from the fire, add five tablespoonfuls 
of thick cream. Strain through a very fine sieve, 
and serve with boiled or fried chicken, or chicken 
cutlets. 

SAUCE BECHAMEL 

Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and 
one of flour ; fill the cup half full of milk and the 
remaining half with chicken stock ; stir until boil- 
ing. Take from the fire; add half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of pepper. Beat the yolks of 
two eggs with four tablespoonfuls of cream; stir 
them in the hot sauce ; reheat ; do not boil or the 
eggs will "curdle." Use at once. 

This is one of the nicest sauces for chicken, 
sweetbreads or other white meats. 

APPLE SAUCE 

This sauce is used with roast duck, goose or 
pork. 

Cut the apples in quarters, remove the cores 
but do not pare the apples; cut them into thin 



50 My Best 250 Recipes 

slices; cover with boiling water, cover the sauce- 
pan and boil rapidly until the apples are tender 
but light in color. Press quickly through a col- 
ander; to each pint add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and stand aside to cool. 

The colander should be rather coarse; apple 
sauce that is pressed through a sieve becomes dis- 
colored and heavy. 

BENNET'S SAUCE FOR POULTRY 

Wash a quart of cranberries, put them in a 
stewing-pan with one pound of tart apples cored, 
not pared, and cut in thin slices; add a pint of 
water; cover the saucepan, boil rapidly for ten 
minutes ; press through a colander ; add one pound 
of sugar ; stir until the sugar is dissolved and boil 
for five minutes. 

FOR PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM 
LIQUID PUDDING SAUCE 

Mix a rounding tablespoonful of flour with 
half a cupful of sugar; add hastily half a pint of 
boiling water ; boil for a moment and pour, while 
hot, into one egg well beaten. Flavoring of any 
kind may be added to this sauce — the grated rind 
and juice of one lemon or orange, or a suspicion 
of mace, with the juice of half a lemon and a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 



My Best 250 Recipes 51 

OUR COOKING SCHOOL SAUCE 

Wash and beat to a cream half a pound of 
butter; add gradually one cupful of powdered 
sugar, and, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs. 
When very light add a gill of boiling water and 
stir over hot water until the mixture thickens; 
then take from the fire and add eight tablespoon- 
fuls of orange juice or other flavoring. Or add 
nutmeg and a little lemon juice. 

Use this sauce for plum or any rich boiled 
pudding. 

NUN'S BUTTER 

Wash, by pressing under water, a quarter 
of a pound of butter; beat to a cream, and add 
gradually half a pound of powdered sugar. When 
very light drop in the unbeaten white of one egg, 
beat for five minutes, add the second white and 
beat for five minutes again. Put the mixture in 
the serving-dish, dust it with grated nutmeg and 
stand on the ice. 

Serve this sauce with dumplings or hot pud- 
dings. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

This is usually served hot as a sauce for ice 
cream. 

Put four ounces of grated chocolate, one cup- 
ful of sugar and half a cupful of milk over the 
fire ; stir until the sugar is dissolved, and boil until 



52 My Best 250 Recipes 

the mixture forms a soft ball when dropped into 
ice water. 

This sauce should be served at once. 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

This sauce is also served with ice cream. 
Put a pint of cream in a double boiler ; when hot 
add the yolks of three eggs thoroughly beaten 
with half a cupful of sugar ; cook a moment ; take 
from the fire and add a tablespoonful of gelatine 
that has been soaking for fifteen minutes in half 
a cupful of cold milk. Strain, and when cold add 
the flavoring, which may be the juice and grated 
rind of an orange, vanilla or any flavoring in 
common use. 



MY BEST 
VEGETABLE RECIPES 

Vegetables, as well as animal foods, contain 
nitrogenous substances. Fats are well repre- 
sented, and while they resemble in chemical com- 
position the animal fats, the fact remains that they 
produce less heat on combustion. They contain 
more olein and less of the solid components. To 
the vegetable kingdom we look for our carbohy- 
drates, sugars and starches — both difficult mate- 
rials to cook well. The remaining constituents, 
mineral salts, have great dietetic importance ; they 
are easily dissolved and lost in cooking. Potash 
in green vegetables is more abundant than soda; 
rice, however^ contains a liberal allowance of the 
latter. Use salt with green vegetables and pota- 
toes, but not with rice. Vegetable foods are rec- 
ommended to persons with gouty diathesis and 
those inclined to uric acid conditions or rheuma- 
tism. Vegetable proteids do not yield uric acid. 

All vegetables should go over the fire in boil- 
ing water. Green vegetables must be cooked in 
salted water; underground vegetables and those 
containing starch in unsalted water. They must 
boil from the time they go over the fire until they 
are drained All vegetables containing sulphur, 

S3 



54 My Best 250 Recipes 

as cabbage, onions and turnips, must be cooked in 
uncovered saucepans, or they will give off unpleas- 
ant odors. Add butter or fat after they are taken 
from the fire. All starchy vegetables are rendered 
difficult of digestion when cooked in heated fat. 

TO COOK RICE 

Wash half a pound of rice through several 
cold waters; drain, and stand it aside for thirty 
minutes. Sprinkle it slowly in two quarts of rap- 
idly boiling water; boil continuously for fifteen 
minutes ; drain, pour over a cupful of cold water, 
toss it with a fork, and stand it in the oven for 
ten minutes to dry. 

Serve in an uncovered dish. 

MY FAVORITE SPAGHETTI 

Grasp half a pound of spaghetti in your hand, 
put the ends down in a kettle of boiling water, 
and as they soften, slightly press until the whole 
is under the water. Shake it apart with a fork, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, and boil rapidly for 
twenty minutes. Drain, throw it in cold water 
for fifteen minutes, and drain again. Return it 
to the kettle, cover with a pint of good stock to 
which you have added a teaspoonful of beef ex- 
tract. Cook slowly for twenty minutes; add a 
level teaspoonful of salt, two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of tomato 



My Best 250 Recipes 55 

paste mixed with half a cupful of good cream. 
Stir constantly until it reaches the boiling point. 
Turn on a large platter, and pass with it grated 
parmesan. 

SUMMER SQUASH 

Cut the squash in eighths; take of? the rind 
and cut each piece into cubes of about one inch. 
Throw them into boiling, salted water, and cook 
slowly for thirty minutes until transparent. Drain 
carefully in a colander, dish, and cover with cream 
or Hollandaise sauce. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Wash four large potatoes andcafthem into 
halves crosswise. With a "scoop" take out the 
centres, leaving a wall at le^st half an inch thick. 
Bake these shells in a hot oven for twenty min- 
utes. Chop sufficient meat to make a pint ; add a 
level teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, 
a tablespoonful of grated onion, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley; add sufficient stock to make 
the mixture moist (about half a cupful). Re- 
move the potatoes from the oven; fill the shells 
with this mixture, rounding it up; dust them 
lightly with breadcrumbs and bake until browned. 
Serve as a supper or luncheon dish. 

Sweet potatoes may be used in place of white 
if preferred. 



56 My Best 250 Recipes 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Hash sufficient cold boiled potatoes to make 
a pint ; add a level teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoon- 
ful of pepper, and about four tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a shallow 
frying-pan; when hot turn in the potatoes; pack 
them down smooth and even with a spatula ; cook 
slowly until they are thoroughly browned on the 
bottom. Fold them over as you would an omelet, 
and turn them on a heated dish, 

TOMATOES, FRENCH FASHION 

Scald and peel small, solid tomatoes ; to each 
six allow half a pint of cream sauce made by rub- 
bing together a rounding tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour ; add half a pint of milk ; stir until 
boiling. Take from the fire, add a level teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Put 
a tablespoonful of the sauce in the bottom of a 
custard-cup ; then put in a tomato and cover with 
another tablespoonful of sauce ; dust the top with 
breadcrumbs; stand the cups in a pan of boiling 
water, and bake in a moderate oven for half an 
hour. Serve in the cups. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of the toma- 
toes ; scoop out the seeds and a portion of the hard 
centres. To each six good-sized tomatoes allow 



My Best 250 Recipes 57 

a pint of breadcrumbs', a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, a tablespoonful of grated onion, a level 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and 
two tablespoon fuls of melted butter; mix, stuff 
this in the tomatoes, heaping it slightly. Stand 
them in a baking-pan, add half a cupful of water, 
and bake in a slow oven for three-quarters of an 
hour, basting once or twice with a little melted 
butter. 

CORN PUDDING 

Score down the centre of each row of grains 
of twelve ears of corn, and with a dull knife press 
out all the pulp. Separate four eggs, beat the 
yolks; add half a pint of milk; pour this slowly 
into half a pint of flour; when perfectly smooth 
strain the mixture into the corn; add a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and fold 
in carefully the well-beaten whites. Pour the mix- 
ture in a shallow, greased baking-pan, and bake 
in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Serve at 
once. 

This is a nice accompaniment to roasted beef. 

STEWED TURNIPS 

Pare and cut the turnips into dice. Put them 
in boiling, unsalted water, and cook below the 
boiling point, about 180° Fahrenheit, until trans- 
parent and white. New turnips require about 



58 My Best 250 Recipes 

twenty minutes, old ones forty-five minutes. 
Drain, turn in a heated dish, and cover with cream 
sauce. 

SPINACH 

Wash the spinach through several cold 
waters; pick the leaves from the roots, shake 
them until dry. Throw them in a hot kettle, cover 
with a quart of boiling water, add a level teaspoon- 
ful of salt, boil rapidly for five minutes ; drain. 
Put the spinach back in the kettle, cover, and 
steam gently for fifteen minutes longer. Drain, 
press slightly, and chop very fine; then press the 
whole through a colander, in a granite or por- 
celain saucepan. To each peck of spinach add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a level teaspoonful 
of salt, two tablespoonfuls of good stock, a table- 
spoonful of cream, and a dash of pepper ; stir care- 
fully until very hot. Pack the mixture in a heated 
bowl to mould, and turn it on a round dish. Have 
ready cut in eighths some hard-boiled eggs; ar- 
range these on top of the spinach, garnish the 
dish with triangular pieces of buttered toast, and 
send at once to the table. 

Cook kale in precisely the same manner. 



MY BEST 
SALAD RECIPES 

A dinner salad is composed of daintily cooked 
or raw green vegetables, dressed with French 
dressing — about four or five parts of oil to one of 
vinegar, with seasonings to harmonize with the 
materials over which it is to be poured. For 
instance, finely shaved cabbage, one of the dain- 
tiest of dinner salads, is much more palatable and 
attractive when seasoned with finely chopped or 
pounded mint, or mint sauce. Lettuce is decidedly 
better with a suspicion of garlic or onion ; chicory 
with a drop or two of Worcestershire sauce. Gar- 
lic is an excellent flavoring, but use it sparingly — 
rub the spoon or the bottom of the bowl, or press 
it down in a crust of bread and place it in the bowl 
under the lettuce or cress. 

All dinner salads should be dressed at the 
table or at a side table at the last moment. They 
wilt and become unattractive if they stand even 
five minutes. The French have a way of dressing 
salads which is to be recommended. First dust 
over salt and pepper ; then rub the spoon with gar- 
lic, measure in it the given amount of oil, pour 
it over the salad, and mix thoroughly ; then meas- 
ure and pour over the given quantity of vinegar, 



6o My Best 250 Recipes 

and mix again. The vinegai- going over last cuts 
the flavor of the oil and gives an entirely differ- 
ent result from the ordinary salad with French 
dressing ; the oil is less pronounced. 

The term salad is also applied to any form of 
cold meat dishes, mixed with lettuce or celery and 
seasoned like a salad. Chicken and celery, beef, 
mutton or fish dressed with mayonnaise dressing 
are salads. In this country fruits cut in slices and 
dressed with sweetened alcohol are known as 
"fruit salads." 

If one has the full understanding of several 
simple dressings any number of salads, perhaps 
forty or fifty, may be made by changing and mix- 
ing flavorings and ingredients. A little ingenu- 
ity blended with artistic taste will produce a differ- 
ent salad every day in the month. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Put half a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoon- 
ful of pepper in a bowl; add slowly, mixing all 
the while, four tablespoon fuls of olive oil. When 
the salt is dissolved add one tablespoonful of tar- 
ragon vinegar or lemon juice. Mix and use at 
once. 

ITALIAN DRESSING 

Put in a bowl half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of cayenne, a teaspoonful of tomato paste, or 
a tablespoonful of tomato ketchup; add gradu- 



My Best 250 Recipes 61 

ally, mixing all the while, four tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil. Add one clove of garlic that has been 
mashed to a pulp, and a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. 

LETTUCE SALAD 

Cut the lettuce in four quarters, beginning at 
the bottom. Remove the leaves carefully without 
mashing or pressing them. Carefully wash each 
leaf and put it on a clean, soft napkin; dry and 
arrange them loosely in the salad-bowl. Sprinkle 
over chopped chives, parsley or onion, as you like. 
At serving-time have this brought to the table, 
also the oil and vinegar. Dust the salad with salt 
and pepper. Rub the spoon with garlic, measure 
the oil, pour it over the lettuce, mix and toss with 
a salad fork and spoon until the oil is evenly dis- 
tributed. Then pour over the vinegar, toss again, 
and serve. 

MY FAVORITE SALAD 

Select a white, crisp head of lettuce; cut at 
the base, break it apart, and throw the leaves in 
cold water for an hour. Cut in very thin slices a 
carefully boiled beet; shave sufficient cabbage to 
make a pint; throw it in ice water. At serving- 
time shake and dry the lettuce and the cabbage. 
Put a layer of lettuce leaves in the bottom of a 
salad-bowl, put over a portion of the cabbage, then 
some beets, a half teaspoonful of celery seed ; then 



62 My Best 250 Recipes 

another layer of cabbage and garnishing of beets. 
Peel two tomatoes, cut them in halves, press out 
the seeds, and cut the flesh in cubes of an inch. 
Put these around the edge. Put in the centre of 
the bowl the heart of the head of lettuce, and stand 
it aside until serving-time. To dress, dust with a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, 
sprinkle over all four tablespoon fuls of mint sauce, 
add a tablespoonful of onion juice, a teaspoonful 
of soy, or Worcestershire sauce, and the same of 
mushroom ketchup that has been well mixed with 
a clove of garlic thoroughly mashed. Add eight 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and mix until each leaf 
of the lettuce is thoroughly covered with the dress- 
ing. Add four tablespoonfuls of grape and tar- 
ragon vinegar mixed; mix again, and serve 
immediately. 

CHICORY SALAD 

This, to me, is the most delightful of all 
dinner salads. Wash the chicory, trim the ends, 
leaving each piece about a finger's length. Put 
in a bowl half a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful 
of grated onion, a saltspoonful of pepper; mix, 
and add four tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; rub until 
the salt is dissolved ; add a tablespoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar; mix, pour over the chicory, and 
serve at once. 



My Best 250 Recipes 63 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Trim neatly one bunch of asparagus, stand 
it in a kettle of boiling, salted water, cover, and 
cook for forty-five minutes. Drain and cool. 
Arrange neatly upon a flat dish and serve very 
cold, with French dressing. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

Select young, tender beans; string and cut 
each one in three pieces lengthwise. Cover with 
boiling, salted water ; boil for twenty minutes, and 
drain. Throw them in cold water for ten min- 
utes; then put them in boiling, unsalted water, 
and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Drain and 
cool. Arrange them neatly on a small platter, 
cover with French dressing, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, and serve at once. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

Soak a head of cauliflower in cold water; 
break it in flowerets and cook in salted, boiling 
water for thirty minutes. Keep it perfectly white ; 
if it boils too long it will lose its color. When 
done lift it carefully and stand aside to cool. At 
serving-time arrange it in a salad-bowl, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and a tablespoonful of onion 
juice, then pour Italian dressing over all, and 
serve. 



64 My Best 250 Recipes 

WOODS SALAD 

Scald and peel solid tomatoes, take a slice 
from the stem ends, scoop out the centres, and 
stand them on the ice to cool. Chop a handful of 
sheep sorrel, mix it with an equal quantity of 
chopped cress, finely chopped mushrooms, and 
chopped mint ; fill this in the tomatoes, stand them 
on lettuce leaves, and pour French dressing over 
them. 

Partridge berries may be used in place of the 
mushrooms when the latter cannot be procured. 

CARROT SALAD 

Cut young and perfect carrots in thin slices, 
then with a vegetable cutter cut them in fancy 
shapes. Put them in a kettle of boiling, unsalted 
water, cook gently for one hour, drain and cool. 
At serving-time arrange them neatly on lettuce 
leaves, cover with French dressing, and serve. 

A SIMPLE RUSSIAN SALAD 

Line a salad-bowl with crisp lettuce leaves. 
Put over one or two tomatoes that have been 
peeled and chopped fine. Add a mashed anchovy 
to the recipe for French dressing, pour it over the 
salad, mix, and serve. 



MY BEST TEN 
FRUIT PRESERVES 

Fresh fruits are always to be preferred, but 
there are times and conditions which make it nec- 
essary to preserve them for future use. The 
chosen methods are canning, sterilizing, with or 
without sugar, and preserving, where a large 
quantity of sugar is used; or the natural water 
may be evaporated and the fruit protected from 
the air and dust. 

To can fruits the first requisite is that they be 
perfectly fresh. The jars must be in good condi- 
tion, with glass tops if possible, and the rubbers 
elastic. Ever3rthing must be heated to the boiling 
point; the lids and jars must not be handled, 
washed or wiped after they have been boiled. If 
the fruit is to be canned without sugar there is 
not much danger of failure ; the use of even a little 
sugar makes the canning process much more 
difficult. 

Fruit should form a part of every day's food ; 
it should not be used simply for ornamentation, 
but as a part of the meal. The love of children for 
fruit of all sorts is almost universal. It is a 
healthful, natural craving that should be gratified. 
Give the fruits, however, as nearly fresh as pos- 
es 



66 My Best 250 Recipes 

sible, and not made deadly sweet with sugar. 
Sugar takes no part whatever in correcting an 
acid. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

Wash the strawberries before they are 
stemmed by putting them in a colander and plung- 
ing them up and down in cold water ; remove the 
stems carefully and quickly. Weigh the berries; 
allow four pounds of sugar to four pounds of 
berries. Put a layer of sugar in the bottom of a 
large preserving-kettle, then a layer of berries, 
another layer of sugar, and a second layer of ber- 
ries, with the remaining sugar on top. Stand 
away in a cool place for about two hours; then 
put over the fire and bring slowly to boiling point. 
Lift the berries with a fork; place them in tum- 
blers or jars. Boil the liquor rapidly until it is 
reduced one-half, and then pour it, while hot, over 
the berries. When cold cover the jars with par- 
affin and paper. Strawberries preserved in this 
way will keep for an indefinite length of time. 

CANDIED CHERRIES 

Stone and weigh the cherries. Allow to each 
pound one pound of granulated sugar. Put the 
sugar in a porcelain-lined kettle; add half a cup- 
ful of water, stir until the sugar is dissolved, and 
skim when it reaches the boiling point. Add the 



My Best 250 Recipes 67 

cherries; cover and push the kettle over a mod- 
erate fire where the cherries may simmer gently 
until transparent. Pour off the syrup, spread the 
cherries on dishes, cover with glass and stand in 
the sun to dry. Bring them in as the sun goes 
down ; if they are not quite dry put them out the 
next day. They may then be dusted with granu- 
lated sugar and put aside for keeping. 

This recipe will answer for candying all kinds 
of fruit. 

PEACH LEATHER 

This is really a fruit paste, and is exceed- 
ingly nice for school luncheons during the winter. 

Wash half a peck of peaches, cut them in 
halves, and remove the stones. Weigh the 
peaches, and to each pound allow a quarter of a 
pound of sugar. Put the peaches in a porcelain- 
lined kettle, cover and stew slowly, stirring now 
and then, until the mass is smooth and rather 
dark. Add the sugar and continue cooking until, 
when you put a teaspoonful in a saucer and cool 
it, it is sufficiently hard to roll or handle like a 
soft ball. When done turn into tumblers, and 
stand aside to cool just as you would jelly. Then 
cover either with lids that have been sterilized or 
with paraffin and paper. 

Apples and quinces may be used in the same 
way. 



68 My Best 250 Recipes 

GOOSEBERRY JAM 

To eight pounds of ripe gooseberries allow 
one quart of currant juice and five pounds of 
granulated sugar. Top and tail the fruit. Put 
the sugar and the currant juice in a porcelain- 
lined kettle, boil and skim; then add the goose- 
berries, let them simmer gently for three-quarters 
of an hour; then stand them aside for two days. 
Bring again quickly to boiling point until each 
berry is perfectly transparent. Pour at once into 
pots, and when cold cover with paraffin or oiled 
paper and keep in a dry place. During the cook- 
ing stir the jam frequently. 

This is a delicious preserve to serve with the 
salad course. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Take an equal weight of fine oranges and 
sugar; allow to each twelve oranges one shad- 
dock. Grate the yellow rind from half the 
oranges, cut them in halves crosswise; with a 
spoon take out the pulp, rejecting the seeds but 
saving all the juice; add the pulp of the shaddock ; 
add the rind to the pulp. Bring to boiling point, 
add the sugar, and boil until it seems thick on 
cooling. Pour at once into tumblers, and cover 
when cool with paraffin and paper. 



My Best 250 Recipes 69 

ORANGE HONEY 

Grate the yellow rind from two fine oranges 
and add to it two pounds of strained honey. Re- 
move the juice and pulp from one dozen oranges ; 
this should measure at least a quart; add this to 
the honey. Turn the whole in a preserving-kettle 
and boil carefully for half an hour; then put it 
into pots, and when cold cover with paraffin or 
oiled paper. 

QUINCE CHIPS 

Pare, quarter and core nice ripe quinces ; cut 
each quarter into thin slices ; weigh, and to each 
pound allow a pound of sugar. Put the quince 
chips in a porcelain-lined kettle, cover with boiling 
water, boil rapidly for ten minutes, and drain. 
This water may be saved for flavoring apple sauce 
or other dishes. Put the quince chips back in the 
porcelain-lined kettle with the sugar, add half a 
cupful of water, cover the kettle, and stand it on 
the back part of the stove where the sugar will 
slowly melt, and then cook the quinces until they 
are dark red and transparent. Lift each piece 
with a skimmer and place on a sieve to dry. When 
dry roll in granulated sugar and put aside to use 
as a sweetmeat. 



70 My Best 250 Recipes 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Put two quarts of raspberries in a stone jar or 
granite kettle, pour over one quart of pure cider 
vinegar ; cover and stand aside for two days ; drain 
off the liquor without mashing the berries, and 
pour it over another quart of fresh fruit, placed in 
the same jar or kettle, and stand aside as before. 
At the end of two days strain this carefully and 
pour it over another quart of fresh fruit, and let 
it stand one day. This time turn the fruit in a 
jelly-bag or two thicknesses of cheesecloth, and 
press it until dry. Wash the kettle, return the 
syrup, add one pound of sugar to each pint of 
liquid; stir until the sugar is dissolved, boil for 
five minutes, skim, bottle, cork with new corks 
and seal the bottles. 

Raspberry vinegar diluted with cold water 
makes a very refreshing drink in hot weather. 

CANNED PEACHES 

This recipe will answer for pears — in fact, 
for all large fruits. 

Pare and stone the peaches, pack them in 
jars, cover with cold water, adjust the rubbers, 
put the lids on carefully, and stand the jars in a 
large boiler, the bottom of which has been pro- 
tected by a rack. Partly surround with cold 
water, cover the boiler, bring the water to boiling 
point, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. Screw on 



My Best 250 Recipes 71 

the lids as soon as you lift the jars from the boiler ; 
be careful not to touch the lids on the inside. 
Next morning give the lids another screw, wipe 
the jars, and stand them in a cool place. 

CRABAPPLE JELLY 

Wash and core sufficient crabapples to make 
four pounds; put them in a porcelain-lined kettle 
with two quarts of cold water; bring to boiling 
point, cook for twenty minutes ; drain in the jelly- 
bag for two or three hours. Measure the liquid ; 
to each pint allow half a pound of sugar. Put 
the syrup in a porcelain-lined kettle, put the sugar 
in a pan in the oven ; boil the syrup for ten min- 
utes, add the sugar, boil for about two minutes, 
and it will then be ready to put in jelly-tumblers. 

Quince and apple jelly may be made in pre- 
cisely the same way. 



MY BEST TEN 
FRUIT DESSERTS 

Fruits are, as a rule, more digestible raw, 
and when served fresh and cool are the best of 
desserts, particularly in the summer-time when 
they are in season. 

The sweet and sub-acid fruits are best quite 
cold. The sour fruits are spoiled by over chill- 
ing — they should be cool, but not cold. 

In the early spring, when fruits are expen- 
sive, a smaller quantity may be made to do full 
duty when mixed with light doughs and such 
starchy materials as tapioca, or with whipped 
cream and gelatine as in the Bavarian creams. 
Sugar cooked with fruits is apt to change into 
new forms, which combine to make the fruit much 
sweeter than raw fruit with sugar sprinkled over 
it. 

In most of the desserts I have given fresh 
fruit should be used when possible. Do not cook 
fruit unless you are obliged to do so. 

Small fruits may be served with cream, but 
not milk. All fruits are, however, more whole- 
some when eaten without either sugar or cream. 

73 



74 My Best 250 Recipes 

OATMEAL BOUCHEES 

Pour left-over breakfast porridge in small 
coffee cups ; stand them aside to cool. At serving- 
time turn them out, scoop out the centre of each, 
leaving a wall and a bottom half an inch thick; 
fill this with berries or sliced peaches, dust with 
powdered sugar, and serve with cream, or a care- 
fully-made soft custard. 

This dessert may be served either at luncheon 
or dinner, and also for supper when dinner is 
eaten in the middle of the day. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

Separate two eggs; add to the yolks a cup- 
ful and a half of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, 
melted, and half a teaspoonful of salt; mix and 
add two cupfuls of flour that have been sifted 
with three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 
beat quickly, fold in the well-beaten whites of the 
eggs, and turn in a greased shallow baking-pan. 
Cover the top thickly with apples that have been 
pared, cored and quartered, putting the rounding 
sides up, and dust over half a cupful of sugar. 
Bake in a moderately quick oven for half an hour, 
or until the apples are tender. Serve with cream. 

Peaches, huckleberries, blackberries or elder- 
berries may be substituted for the apples. 



My Best 250 Recipes 75 

ALMOND CUSTARD 

Pare and slice two large peaches, put them in 
the bottom of a serving-dish. Put a pint of milk 
in a double boiler; separate two eggs, beat the 
yolks with half a cupful of sugar, add a little hot 
milk, turn in the boiler, cook for a moment, take 
from the fire, and stir in half a cupful of stale, 
fine breadcrumbs, ten drops of bitter almond, and 
twenty-four almonds, blanched and chopped fine. 
Cool and pour over the peaches in the serving- 
dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
add two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 
beat again. Drop by teaspoonfuls in a saucepan 
of hot water; cook for an instant; lift with a 
skimmer, drain, and slide them at once on top of 
the pudding. Dust with a tablespoonful of fine 
breadcrumbs and stand aside to cool. Serve cold. 

Stale pieces of cake or rusk may be used in 
the place of bread. 

PAN PUDDING 

Add sufficient milk to a pint of flour to make 
a stiff dough ; knead and pound it for at least fif- 
teen minutes. Cut it in quarters, roll each piece 
in a thin sheet not thicker than letter-paper and 
the size and shape of an ordinary roasting-pan. 
Brush the bottom of the pan with melted suet, 
put in a sheet of the paste, brush it lightly with 
melted suet. Have ready a quarter of a pound of 



^6 My Best 250 Recipes 

Jordan almonds, blanched, chopped fine, and 
mixed with a cupful of chopped raisins, half a 
pound of chopped apples, and a cupful of brown 
sugar. Put this mixture on the sheet in the pan, 
cover with another sheet, brush with suet, then 
another, and so continue, until all the sheets of 
paste are used. Brush the top with melted suet, 
dust with sugar, and bake in a quick oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. Remove very carefully 
from the pan to a fiat dish and send at once to 
the table. 

If properly made this is one of the most deli- 
cate of all puddings. 

CANNELONS 

Rub a rounding tablespoonful of butter in 
a quart of flour; add two rounding teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and half a teaspoonful of salt; 
mix thoroughly, and stir in quickly a cupful and 
a half of milk. The dough must be moist, but 
not wet. Knead quickly, roll out in a sheet half 
an inch thick, cut in strips one inch wide and 
twelve inches long; roll each strip around a can- 
nelon-mould; place in a baking-pan, brush the 
tops with the yolk of an egg beaten with a table- 
spoonful of milk, dust thickly with granulated 
sugar, and bake in a quick oven for twenty min- 
utes. When done take out of the moulds, fill the 



My Best 250 Recipes 77 

spaces with sugared fruit. Arrange the cannelons 
neatly upon a pretty dish and send to the table 
with a pitcher of cream. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Remove the stones from half a pound of 
stewed prunes ; press the prunes through a sieve, 
add to them the yolks of three eggs slightly 
beaten, with four tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Fold in the well-beaten whites of six 
eggs; turn at once in a baking-dish, dust the top 
witTi powdered sugar, bake in a quick oven for 
five or six minutes, then send immediately to the 
table in the dish in which it was baked. 

CREAM APPLE PUDDING 

Pare, core and quarter six tart apples. Dis- 
solve a teaspoonful of soda in two tablespoonfuls 
of warm water; add it to one pint of thick, sour 
milk and sour cream mixed, stir in two cupfuls 
and a half of pastry flour, beat for a moment; 
pour in a greased baking-pan, the bottom of which 
has been covered with the apple; sprinkle half a 
cupful of granulated sugar and a teaspoonful of 
cinnamon over the top. Bake in a moderately 
quick oven for one hour, and serve hot with a 
carefully made hard sauce, or cream. 



yS My Best 250 Recipes 

APPLE DOWDY 

Line a baking-dish with thin slices of brown 
bread, buttered; fill in the spaces with apples 
that have been pared, cored and chopped; mix a 
teaspoonful of cinnamon with half a cupful of 
brown sugar; sprinkle this over the apples; add 
half a cupful of water, and cover with another 
layer of brown bread, buttered — with the but- 
tered side up. Bake slowly for one hour, and 
serve with cider sauce. 

FRUIT GELATINE 

This attractive and dainty dessert has been 
burdened with a number of very inappropriate 
names, such as "Heavenly Hash," "Angels' 
Hash," etc. 

Stone and chop a quarter of a pcmnd of 
dates ; mix with an equal amount of figs, chopped 
fine; add chopped candied cherries or pineapple, 
or the pulp of an orange, or a sliced banana. The 
mixture must be sufficient to fill a quart and a 
pint mould. Cover a box of gelatine with half a 
pint of cold water and let it soak for half an hour. 
Add to it a cupful of sugar and a quart of boil- 
ing water; stir until the sugar is dissolved; add 
the juice of two lemons and one orange, and two 
teaspoonfuls of caramel. Strain in the mould over 
the fruit and stand it aside to harden. When 
cold and quite firm turn it out upon a glass dish 



My Best 250 Recipes 79 

and send to the table with or without whipped 
cream. The fruit must be put loosely in the 
mould or the jelly will not penetrate. 

MY FAVORITE DESSERT 

Mix orange pulp, white grapes cut in halves, 
candied cherries chopped fine and a grated pine- 
apple with half a cupful of powdered sugar ; stand 
aside to cool. At serving-time fill dessert-glasses 
with two tablespoonfuls of this mixture; put a 
tablespoonful of lemon water-ice in the centre of 
each glass ; cover it over with four tablespoonfuls 
of whipped cream, and send at once to the table. 



MY BEST TEN 

COLD LUNCHEON 

DISHES 

BLIND HARE 

Chop one pound and a half of round steak 
and one pound and a half oi veal cutlets fine. Add 
to them four eggs well beaten, half a teaspoonful 
of grated nutmeg, a level teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
two level teaspoonfuls of salt, a saltspoonful of 
black pepper and two cupfuls of stale bread- 
crumbs; mix all together and pack in a square 
bread-pan. Turn it out carefully on a tin sheet, 
baste with butter, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and 
bake in a moderate oven for three hours, basting, 
once or twice with a little melted butter. Serve 
cold cut in very thin slices. 

MARBLED CHICKEN 

Chop fine cold cooked salt beef's tongue; 
cut the meat from a three-pound boiled chicken; 
season the tongue with pepper and nutmeg and 
the chicken with salt, pepper and celery seed. 
Select a Boston brown bread mould or a square 
bread-pan ; put in a layer of tongue, then a layer 
of chicken, a thick sprinkling of parsley, a layer 



82 My Best 250 Recipes 

of sliced hard-boiled eggs, then another layer of 
tongue, and so on until the ingredients are used. 
Cover half a box of gelatine with half a cupful 
of cold water and soak for fifteen minutes; add 
a pint of boiling water; stir until the gelatine is 
dissolved, add the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of red pepper. Pour this over 
the meat, and with a skewer make holes here and 
there, allowing the gelatine to go to the very bot- 
tom of the mould. Stand aside overnight and 
serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

PRESSED CHICKEN 

Boil carefully a four-pound fowl; when the 
meat is very tender take it from the water and 
stand aside to cool. There should be about one 
quart of liquor when the fowl is done; to this 
add two-thirds of a box of gelatine that has been 
soaked in a cupful of cold water for half an hour, 
a tablespoonful of onion juice, a palatable season- 
ing of salt and pepper and the juice of a lemon. 
Add the whites of two eggs slightly beaten; boil 
hard for five minutes, and strain through flannel 
or two thicknesses of cheesecloth. Take the meat 
from the chicken, remove the fat, bones and skin. 
Put a layer of meat in the bottom of a square 
bread-pan or mould, then a layer of chopped pars- 
ley, a layer of thin sliced hard-boiled eggs, an- 



My Best 250 Recipes S^ 

other layer of chicken in good-sized pieces. When 
the mould is full pour over the clarified gelatine 
and stand aside overnight. Serve cold garnished 
with any accessible greens. 

POTTED FISH 

Boil four pounds of halibut or any v^fhite 
fish ; when cold pick it apart in large blocks ; add 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, two saltspoonfuls of 
pepper and one blade of mace. Pound the fish to 
a paste, adding gradually a quarter of a pound of 
melted butter. Pack this in small jars or glasses, 
cover with melted paraffin, then with paper, and 
keep in a cold place. 

HUNGARIAN FISH 

Chop a pound of raw halibut very fine; add 
twenty-four almonds that have been blanched and 
chopped, a small onion grated, a level teaspoonful 
of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper and the 
juice of two lemons. Pack this in small pots or 
moulds, cover, stand in a pan of water, and cook 
slowly in the oven for one hour. Stand aside to 
cool. When ready to serve turn it from the 
moulds on to lettuce leaves and cover with sauce 
tartar or mayonnaise dressing. 

This is a very nice dish for Sunday night 
supper. 



§4 My Best 250 Recipes 

PICKLED FISH 

Purchase four pounds of salmon or halibut. 
Wash; put it in a kettle and cover with boiling 
water ; add a tablespoonful of salt and boil gently 
for thirty minutes. When done drain and stand 
aside to cool. Take off the skin, cut the fish into 
convenient pieces. Put one quart of good vinegar 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, add two blades of mace, 
six whole cloves, two bay leaves, a small onion 
chopped, a dash of red pepper, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; bring to boiling point; drop in the 
pieces of fish, and let them boil up once. Have 
ready four or five quart glass jars ; see that they 
are scalded and made clean. Lift each piece of 
fish, arrange them in the jars, cover with the 
boiling vinegar; adjust the rubbers, take the tops 
from a kettle of boiling water, screw on quickly, 
and stand in a cool, dry place. This will keep 
for months. 

Any fish may be used, though white-fleshed 
fish is best. 

MOCK PATE DE FOIES GRAS 

Wash a small calf's liver; put it in a stew- 
ing pan with a good-sized onion chopped fine, two 
bay leaves, a blade of mace, a saltspoonful of 
black pepper, six whole cloves, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a lump of loaf sugar and one pint of stock; 



My Best 250 Recipes 85 

cover the saucepan and cook gently for three 
hours. When done cut the liver in thin slices, 
put them on a meat-dish, strain over the liquor 
from the saucepan, and stand aside overnight. 
Next day pound the liver to a paste; add slowly 
half a pound of melted butter. Press the whole 
through a colander. Pack in small pots, smooth 
the tops, pour over melted suet or paraffin, and 
stand in a cool place. 

This is cut in thin slices and served as a 
luncheon dish. 

COLLARED BEEF 

Purchase about six or eight pounds of rolled 
corned beef; trim it neatly and spread over a 
mixture made from two grated carrots, half a 
cupful of chopped parsley and four tablespoon- 
fuls of grated horseradish. Roll the beef, bind 
with strips of muslin, then roll it in cheesecloth 
and drop it in a kettle of boiling water; bring 
to boiling point and skim. Add to the water 
an onion, two bay leaves, four cloves and, if you 
have it, a teaspoonful of celery seed; simmer 
gently for four hours. Take the meat from the 
water and stand aside to cool. Serve cut in very 
thin slices. This will keep three or four days 
even in warm weather. 



86 My Best 250 Recipes 

BEEF A LA MODE 

Spices are antiseptic, hence all meats cooked 
Avith spices will keep much longer than roasted 
or boiled meats. Select a piece from the round 
of beef, four or eight pounds, according to the 
size of your family. Have it at least four inches 
thick. Cut deep gashes in the meat, nearly 
through. Rub the meat on the outside and in 
the gashes with a mixture made from a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper, a quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of mace, the same of cloves, 
half a teaspoonful of ginger and half a teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon. Mix together four tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar and one of melted butter or olive 
oil. Moisten the meat on the outside with this 
mixture, and bind it in shape and stand aside 
overnight. Next morning put it in the baking- 
pan over the fire, brown quickly on both sides, 
and cover with boiling water. Add a quart of 
boiling water, cover tne pan, and bake slowly 
for four or five hours, basting frequently. 
When done stand aside to cool. Serve in thin 
slices with cream horseradish or tartar sauce. 

DEVILED EGGS 

Chop sufficient cold cooked chicken to make 
half a pint; put it in a bowl, rub with a spoon 
and add one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 



My Best 250 Recipes 87 

of chopped parsley, a level teaspoonful of salt, 
a saltspoonful of pepper and one raw egg well 
beaten. Hard-boil twelve eggs; remove the 
yolks, rub them to a paste, and mix them with the 
chicken. Make this in balls the size of the yolks 
and fill each white. This will give you twenty- 
four halves of eggs with full-sized yolks. 
Arrange these neatly on lettuce leaves on a plat- 
ter and serve with mayonnaise dressing as a cold 
dish at luncheon. The yolks may be flattened and 
two whites put together and rolled in tissue-paper 
for picnics. 



MY BEST 
FIFTEEN ICES 

Ice Creams are better, and are more apt to 
be smooth and free from "buttery" conditions, if 
half the cream is scalded; this also prevents 
swelling, which makes the cream less watery. To 
each quart of cream allow, for vanilla and other 
extract flavorings, seven ounces of sugar. There 
is no advantage in using milk; it does not swell 
like cream, and, moreover, it prevents the ice 
cream from having a good, lasting body. 

Cream freezes more quickly than the syrup 
for water-ices. All sour fruits should be added 
to the cream after it is frozen. 

PHILADELPHIA VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Scald a pint of cream; cut a vanilla bean in 
halves, scrape out the seeds, and rub with the 
sugar; then add the sugar to the cream; stir 
until dissolved and cold; when cold add another 
pint of unscalded cream. When the mixture is 
icy cold turn it in the freezer, pack with salt and 
ice, using one-third salt to two-thirds ice. Turn 
the crank slowly for a moment until the cream is 
icy cold, then stir rapidly until it is frozen. 

89 



go My Best 250 Recipes 

Remove the dasher; repack and stand aside for 
an hour or two to ripen. 

PLAIN VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Add eight ounces of powdered sugar to one 
quart of cream. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
and add a dessertspoonful of good extract of 
vanilla. Turn into the freezing-can; stir slowly 
at first until the cream is icy cold, then beat more 
rapidly until it is thoroughly frozen. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM 

Put the grated rind of an orange in a pint 
of cream, add eight ounces of sugar, stir in a 
double boiler until the sugar is dissolved; when 
cold add another pint of cream and freeze. If 
orange juice or orange pulp is added it must be 
done after the cream is frozen ; then stir it just a 
moment longer and repack. The flavoring of the 
orange is in the rind. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Mash one quart of strawberries ; add to them 
half a cupful of sugar, and let stand for half an 
hour. Scald a pint of cream; add eight ounces 
of sugar, and when cold add a second pint of 
cream; turn the mixture in the freezer; when 
frozen very hard add the quart of mashed straw- 



My Best 250 Recipes 91 

berries. Turn the crank again until the whole 
is well frozen. This may be used after it has 
been standing for one hour. Always repack after 
the first freezing, using less salt and coarse ice. 

FROZEN PEACHES WITH CREAM 

Plunge twelve very ripe peaches into a kettle 
of hot water; this will allow the skins to be 
easily removed. Mash the peaches through a 
colander ; add to them eight ounces of sugar ; stir 
until the sugar is dissolved; add half a pint of 
water; put the mixture in the freezer and stir 
until it is frozen rather hard. Add one pint of 
good, thick cream; stir until thoroughly mixed. 
Repack the can and stand aside for an hour to 
ripen. 

DONNYBROOK CREAM 

This is really pistachio ice cream. Blanch 
and pound to a paste two ounces of pistachio 
nuts; add, while pounding, one teaspoonful of 
bitter almond extract. Scald a pint of cream; 
add seven ounces of sugar; stir until the sugar 
is dissolved. Take from the fire, and when this 
is cold add it gradually to the pistachio paste, 
rubbing or stirring all the while. Add another 
pint of uncooked cream and when the mixture 
is icy cold, freeze. 



92 My Best 250 Recipes 

SULTANA ROLL 

Line one pound baking-powder boxes with 
pistachio ice cream, making a wall and bottom 
at least an inch thick; fill the centre with cream 
that has been whipped to a stiff froth and to 
which you have added a cupful of seedless raisins 
that have been soaked in orange juice overnight. 
Drain them perfectly dry; add a drop or two of 
cochineal to the cream to make it slightly rose- 
colored. Put another layer of pistachio ice 
cream over the top and put on the lid. Bind the 
seams of the mould with strips of muslin that 
have been dipped in melted paraffin. Pack the 
moulds in salt and ice; stand them aside for at 
least two hours. At serving-time plunge them 
in a kettle of boiling water, and turn the creams 
out on a long platter, Serve with grape sauce. 

GRAPE SAUCE 

Boil a pound of sugar and half a pint of 
water together for ten minutes until they form 
a thick syrup; add the juice of a lemon, and 
when cold add half a pint of grape juice or 
claret. Pack in ice until serving-time. 

CAFE PARFAIT 

Make and freeze one quart of coffee ice 
cream ; at serving-time stir in a pint of cream that 



My Best 250 Recipes 93 

has been whipped to a stiff froth. Serve im- 
mediately in meringue shells or in dessert-glasses. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 

Mash a quart of strawberries, add half a 
pound of sugar and the juice of two lemons; 
stand aside for one hour. Boil together a pint 
of water and half a pound of sugar; strain and 
cool. Add the cold syrup to the strawberries, 
pour them in the freezing-can, and turn slowly 
until the mixture is frozen hard. Serve in glasses 
with whipped cream. 

ALASKA BAKE 

Pack a round or brick mould with vanilla 
or strawberry ice cream; cover and bind the 
seams with strips of muslin dipped in melted 
paraffin. Repack in ice and salt, and stand aside 
for at least two hours. At serving-time turn 
the cream on a folded napkin on a platter. Beat 
the whites of four eggs until light; add four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat until 
light and dry. Cover the cream thoroughly with 
this meringue, and dust with powdered sugar. 
Stand the platter on a cold board, and run the 
whole in a hot oven for just a moment to brown. 
Serve at once. 



94 My Best 250 Recipes 

GRAPE SHERBET 

Boil one pound of sugar and one quart of 
water together for five minutes; strain and cool. 
When cold, add one pint of unfermented grape 
juice and four tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 
Turn the mixture into the freezer and stir slowly 
until frozen. Remove the dasher and stir in a 
meringue made by beating the white of one egg 
to a stiff froth and adding one tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar. Repack the can and stand aside 
for one hour and a half. 

All sherbets may be made after this recipe, 
substituting the same amount of other fruit 
juices. 

PINEAPPLE WATER ICE 

Add one pound and a half of sugar to one 
quart of water. Boil rapidly for five minutes; 
then cool. When cold add the juice of two 
lemons and one, quart of grated pineapple. Mix, 
turn into the freezer and freeze, stirring slowly. 

If canned or preserved pineapple is used 
allow less sugar. 

ORANGE WATER ICE 

Grate the yellow rind from three oranges 
into one pound of sugar. Rub until the sugar is 
quite saturated with the orange oil. Add a quart 
of water, bring to boiling point, boil for five 



My Best 250 Recipes 95 

minutes; take from the fire, strain, and when 
cold add the juice of twelve large oranges and 
one lemon. 

RASPBERRY WATER ICE 

Take one quart of red raspberries, one quart 
of water, the juice of two lemons and one pound 
of sugar. Add the sugar and lemon juice to the 
berries; stir, and let stand for one hour; press 
through a sieve, add the water, turn into a freezer 
and freeze. 



MY BEST TWENTY 
SUMMER RECIPES 

During the summer months starchy and 
fatty foods should be eliminated from the bills-of- 
fare. Even ice cream contains too much fat to 
be used in large quantities. Water-ices, frozen 
fruit juices, are much more refreshing and whole- 
some if ice dishes can be classed among whole- 
some foods. 

Eat less meat; substitute succulent vegeta- 
bles, and fresh, ripe, uncooked fruits. Nitroge- 
nous vegetables do not produce as much heat as 
meats. Fresh fruits are best raw; cooking in 
sugar makes them less natural, less digestible and 
less wholesome. As a class Americans use too 
few fruits ; they are not expensive as compared to 
meats, and are very wholesome. 

The love for fruit is almost universal among 
children, and still it is given to them sparingly. 
Make it a portion of every meal, and the bulk and 
base of all school luncheons. 

Fruits, like other foods, may be divided into 
several classes : succulent, sub-acid, and those con- 
taining fruit sugars, as raisins, dates and figs, and 
bananas, containing starch. In the succulent 
group we have apples, pears, quinces, oranges, 

97 



98 My Best 250 Recipes 

limes, shaddocks, plums, peaches, apricots, cher- 
ries, olives, grapes, gooseberries, currants, cran- 
berries, barberries, strawberries, raspberries, 
blackberries, mulberries, with the melons — as 
watermelons and cantaloups — and pineapples. 
The analyses of these fruits show them to be par- 
ticularly rich in mineral salts, and while their nu- 
tritive value is low they contain a large amount 
of pure water, holding in solution fruit sugar and 
important vegetable acids. Use them in abun- 
dance during hot weather. 

HOW TO DO WITH LITTLE COOKING 

During August a small gas or oil stove will 
be quite sufficient to do the cooking for a large 
family. 

Meats are more attractive when served cold ; 
enough vegetables for two days may be cooked 
on one day, and this is equally true of cereals ; the 
second heating renders them more palatable and 
more digestible, providing they are not stirred or 
mashed in cooking. 

Where only one maid or no maid is kept let 
the cooking for the day be done during the morn- 
ing hours, when it is necessary for some one to 
be in the kitchen. The chafing-dish plays an im- 
portant part in the reheating of dainty dishes. 

If one has roasted chicken for dinner save all 
pieces left over for chicken a la creme or chicken 



My Best 250 Recipes 99 

a la Bordelaise for the next day. Forethought in 
the making of bills-of-fare a week in advance will 
save hours of labor and many dollars of expense ; 
one cannot think of good combinations at a 
moment's notice. Cold meat dishes, the recipes 
for which are given in another part of the book, 
will help to give variety. Boned chicken, usually 
considered the most elaborate dish in the hands of 
an ordinary cook, is easily and quickly done, and 
makes a very pretty dish at little cost. 

A word of caution is necessary about using 
left-over dishes containing eggs and milk. If the 
weather is warm and the air filled with humidity, 
ptomaine poisons arise very easily ; all such dishes, 
as well as cooked fish, should be used on the day 
on which they are cooked. Even in the best re- 
frigerators foods may become contaminated, and 
in turn contaminate other foods. 

SUMMER VEGETABLE DISHES 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Split solid tomatoes into halves; place them 
on a broiler, skin side down, and broil slowly for 
fifteen minutes. Dust with salt and pepper, and 
put over a little butter. Send at once to the table. 

BOILED TOMATOES 

Throw small, solid tomatoes into a kettle of 
boiling water; boil rapidly for ten minutes; lift 



loo My Best 250 Recipes 

with a skimmer and dish each on a heated saucer. 
Open the centres with a fork ; put in a bit of but- 
ter, a little salt and pepper, and serve at once. 
This makes an admirable breakfast dish. 

PANNED TOMATOES 

Cut tomatoes into halves, dust with salt and 
pepper ; put a bit of butter in the centre of each, 
and place in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve on a heated plate. 

EGYPTIAN TOMATOES 

Peel and scoop out the centres of five or six 
solid tomatoes; put on ice until perfectly cold. 
When ready to serve arrange the tomatoes on 
lettuce leaves and fill the centres with finely- 
chopped cress that has been seasoned with grated 
onion, half a teaspoonful of celery seed, a dash 
of salt and pepper. Pour over a little French 
dressing, and serve at once. 

A VEGETARIAN SUPPER DISH 

Break two ounces of macaroni into short 
lengths, throw in boiling water and boil rapidly 
for twenty minutes. Rub the hard-boiled yolks 
of two eggs to a paste ; add gradually four or five 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Rub together a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of flour; add the egg 
and half a cupful of milk ; stir over hot water until 



My Best 250 Recipes loi 

you have a thick, golden sauce; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Chop the 
macaroni fine and add it to the sauce. Cut a 
slice from the stem ends of good solid tomatoes, 
scoop out the centres, stand the tomatoes in a 
baking-pan, fill the centres with the macaroni, 
dust with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate 
oven for thirty minutes, until the tomatoes are 
perfectly soft but not broken. 

Serve on slices of toast, either plain or with 
cream sauce. Cheese may be added to the maca- 
roni, which will give greater food value. 

CORN PUFFS 

Score down the centre of each row oi grains 
of six ears of corn ; with a dull knife press out the 
pulp. This should measure one cupful and a half. 
Add to this half a cupful of milk, the yolks of two 
eggs and half a teaspoonful of salt; then stir in 
one cupful and a half of pastry flour that has been 
sifted with one rounding teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Fold in the well-beaten whites and bake 
in greased gem-pans in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve the same as breakfast 
muffins. 

CREOLE CORN 

Peel and cut in quarters four good-sized 
tomatoes; put these in a saucepan with a dozen 



I02 My Best 250 Recipes 

okf a washed and cut in thin slices ; cover and stew 
slowly for twenty minutes; add the pulp of a 
dozen ears of corn, a level teaspoonful of salt, 
one sweet pepper chopped fine, a dash of white 
pepper; cook over hot water for fifteen minutes; 
add either four tablespoonfuls of cream or two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and send at once to the 
table. 

This is one of the most delicious of all the 
summer vegetable dishes. Served with chicken 
it forms a good Brunswick stew, or it may be 
served as a vegetable with brpiled or baked 
chicken. The accompanying starchy vegetable 
should be rice. 

CORN PUDDING 

Score down the centre of the grains of twelve 
ears of corn, press out the pulp; add half a pint 
of milk in which you have moistened six table- 
spoonfuls of flour; add a teaspoonful of salt, a 
saltspoonful of pepper, the yolks of three eggs, 
and then stir in the well-beaten whites. Bake in 
a shallow pan. Serve as a dinner or supper dish. 

FRESH PEAS PUDDING 

Boil two quarts of shelled peas for fifteen 
minutes until tender; press through a colander; 
add two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a cupful of 
cream and a dash of pepper. Fill into custard^ 



My Best 250 Recipes 103 

cups and stand in a pan of hot water and bake 
in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve 
with cream sauce. 

This may be made in the morning and cooked 
just at serving-time. 

BEAN ROLL 

Cook lima beans in boiling water until ten- 
der; press through a sieve; add salt and pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of butter to each pint of pulp. 
Stir in two eggs well beaten, and sufficient bread- 
crumbs — about half a cupful — to make the mix- 
ture thick enough to roll. Wrap in greased paper, 
and at serving-time bake for twenty minutes in 
a quick oven. Serve plain or with tomato sauce. 

This takes the place of meat. 

SOME PEACH DESSERTS 
PEACH SHORTCAKE 

Sift two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and one of salt with one quart of flour; 
add sufficient milk to make a soft dough; knead 
quickly, roll out in a sheet one inch thick, cut to 
fit the baking-pan, brush with milk, and bake in a 
quick oven for twenty minutes. Pull the sheet 
apart, butter the inside, and cover the under part 
with finely-chopped sugared peaches. Put on the 
upper crust, dust with powdered sugar, and send 
to the table with a pitcher of cream. 



I04 My Best 250 Recipes 

PEACH DUMPLINGS 

Wash half a pound of rice through several 
cold waters; drain, throw the rice in a kettle of 
boiling water and boil rapidly for twenty min- 
utes; drain. Spread a thin layer in the centre of 
a dumpling-cloth; place in the centre of this one 
small stoned peach ; fold the rice over, tie tightly ; 
throw the dumplings in a kettle of boiling water, 
boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, and serve hot 
with a pitcher of cream. 

PEACH CUP 

Pare eight large, soft, ripe peaches; cut 
them in halves. Put aside twelve halves and 
mash the remaining quantity; add to them the 
yolks of two eggs, half a cupful of milk, a table- 
spoonful of butter, melted, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, and one cupful and a half of flour that has 
been sifted with a rounding teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; beat for a moment, and fold in the well- 
beaten whites. Put a layer of the batter in the 
bottom of custard-cups, put on top of each half a 
peach, cover with two tablespoonfuls of batter, 
dust with granulated sugar, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven for twenty minutes. Turn from the 
cups and serve hot with hard sauce or a pitcher 
of cream. 



My Best 250 Recipes 105 

FISH AND MEAT IN THE CHAFING-DISH 
CHICKEN A LA CREME 

Boil a four-pound chicken until tender ; when 
cold remove the skin and cut the flesh into blocks. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour 
in the chafing-dish; mix with one pint of milk; 
stir until the sauce thickens; add the chicken, 
a level teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and, if you have it, a teaspoonful of soy ; stir 
until the chicken is thoroughly covered with the 
sauce. Heat, and serve from the dish. 

FRICASSEE OF DRIED BEEF 

Pull the dried beef apart in tiny pieces, cover 
it with boiling water for fifteen minutes, and drain 
perfectly dry. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing-dish ; when hot sprinkle in the beef ; 
stir and cook until the meat is thoroughly heated. 
Sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, and add 
half a pint of milk. Stir constantly until the mix- 
ture boils ; add a dash of pepper, and, if you have 
it, half a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Stir 
constantly, and serve at once. 

SWEETBREADS AND CANNED MUSHROOMS 

Boil the sweetbreads carefully for three- 
quarters of an hour; pick them apart, rejecting 
the membrane. Drain and chop fine one can of 



io6 My Best 250 Recipes 

mushrooms; mix them together and let them 
stand in the refrigerator for an hour or two. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour 
in the chafing-dish ; add a pint of milk, stir until 
the sauce thickens; add the sweetbreads and 
mushrooms, a level teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of pepper. Serve when hot. 

Chicken may be cooked after the same fash- 
ion. 

DUCK A LA BORDELAISE 

Roast a duck and cut it in blocks ; to one pint 
of these blocks use a tablespoonful of butter and 
one of flour, and half a pint of stock. Put the 
butter and flour in the chafing-dish, add the stock, 
stir until boiling. Add the duck and a teaspoon- 
ful of mushroom ketchup, half a can of mush- 
rooms, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet and a teaspoonful of onion juice. 
When hot add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

Turkey or chicken may be substituted for 
the duck. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

Boil a good-sized lobster; when cold remove 
the meat and cut in cubes of about one inch. 
Hard-boil three eggs. Put the yolks through a 
sieve ready for use ; put into the chafing-dish one 
tablespoonful of butter and one of flour ; mix ; add 



My Best 250 Recipes 107 

two-thirds of a cupful of good milk or cream; 
add a little of this sauce, when it has thickened, 
to the yolks of the eggs ; rub to a paste, mix them 
with the sauce; add half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
saltspoonful of white or black pepper and about 
half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg or a drop of 
extract of ,nutmeg. This sauce should be thick 
and have the general appearance of mayonnaise 
dressing. Add the lobster. When hot it is ready 
to serve. 

SCALLOPS A LA POULETTE 

Wash a pint of scallops, cover with boiling 
water for five minutes, and drain. Put them away 
until perfectly cold; beat the yolks of three eggs 
and add to them half a pint of milk and stand 
aside. At serving-time put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one of flour in the chafing-dish ; mix ; 
add the milk and yolks of eggs and the scallops ; 
stir until the sauce is smoking hot. Put out the 
light immediately, or the sauce will curdle. Add 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and serve at once on a heated dish. 

Chicken, sweetbreads and lobster may be 
cooked after this method. 

MUTTON, VENISON STYLE 

Cut roasted or boiled mutton in thin slices. 
Put into the chafing-dish four tablespoonfuls of 



io8 My Best 250 Recipes 

tomato ketchup, one tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of currant jelly and 
a tablespoonful of butter; stir all these ingredi- 
ents until hot. Put in sufficient mutton to satu- 
rate the sauce thoroughly; add half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a sprinkling of pepper. It is now 
ready to serve. 

BEEF PATS 

Put one pound of lean meat twice through a 
meat-chopper; add to it a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper, a teaspoonful of onion juice and 
a tablespoonful of parsley; mix thoroughly, form 
into pats the size of a silver dollar ; arrange them 
neatly on a plate, and garnish with parsley. At 
serving-time put a rounding tablespoonful of but- 
ter in the chafing-dish ; put in the pats, cook them 
on one side, turn and cook them on the other. 
Lift to one side; add a tablespoonful of chopped 
onion, a tablespoonful of flour ; mix and add half 
a pint of strained tomatoes ; add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a dash of pepper. Cover for three 
minutes, and serve. 



MY BEST TWENTY 
LEFT-OVERS 

True economy consists of buying small quan- 
tities of the best materials and using them care- 
fully. When one wants a fine piece of roasted 
beef the roast itself must be of fair size; small 
roasts are extravagant and not palatable. Large 
roasts lose less in cooking than small ones, but 
the left-overs must be utilized or the dish is most 
expensive. As a rule left-overs are extrava- 
gances; they show thoughtless buying; but to 
know how to utilize them is the stronghold of 
every housewife. Many left-over vegetables are 
better on second cooking, especially the starchy 
ones. Not so, however, with meats. 

Dishes made from eggs and milk should not 
be kept for a second day, especially during the 
warm months. Fish, even if perfectly fresh when 
cooked, is by far more dangerous than stale meat. 
Beef and mutton keep longer than either fish or 
white meats. 

A few of the succulent vegetables, such as 
beans, peas, corn and stewed tomatoes, are better 
the second day than on the first; enough may be 
cooked one day to serve for the second, providing 
they are quickly chilled after cooking. Stock and 



no My Best 250 Recipes 

boiled meats must be put at once in a cold place 
or they will sour in the cooling, especially if there 
is much moisture in the atmosphere. Stand the 
stock bowl in a pan of cold water and change the 
water frequently until the stock is cool, then put 
it at once in the refrigerator. Cooked meats 
should also be cooled quickly. Do not cover ma- 
terials while cooling. Spiced meats will keep 
longer in warm weather than plain boiled or 
roasted meats. 

Save everything, even if it is only a table- 
spoonful of stewed tomatoes or one of peas ; they 
may be added to to-morrow's omelet and change 
it from a plain into a dainty one. If the yolk of 
the egg has been used for a sauce save the white, 
and in arranging for next day's dinner select a 
dessert in which it may play a part. If there is 
one cold boiled potato save it; you may have 
cream of potato soup without the cooking of an 
extra potato. A few ears of corn may be cut oflf 
and added to breakfast muffins, or to the omelet, 
making corn muffins and a corn omelet. A pint 
of stewed tomatoes will make the tomato sauce 
for chops or beef croquettes. 

A very nice experiment is to take six or eight 
saucers of left-overs from the refrigerator, and, 
with a few extra materials, convert them into a 
luncheon. To a saucer of apple sauce add a little 
tapioca for apple tapioca, or the white of a well- 



My Best 250 Recipes iii 

beaten tgg folded in for apple snow; or with an 
egg and half a pint of milk filled in custard-cups 
and baked, a Marlborough custard. Such work 
is not only interesting but instructive. It calls out 
inventive and artistic ideas, and makes pleasant 
work of the so-called drudgery. Every duty that 
calls out our better thoughts and higher nature 
not only educates the doer but elevates the position 
as well. 

POTATO PUFF 

Put a pint of cold mashed potatoes in a 
saucepan ; add half a cupful of milk ; stir, and beat 
until the potatoes are hot and smooth. Take from 
the fire, fold in the well-beaten whites of two eggs, 
heap in a baking-dish, and brown quickly in a hot 
oven. 

Serve with roasted or broiled beef. 

CREAMED HASHED POTATOES 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather fine ; season 
them with salt and pepper; fill them in a baking- 
dish; pour over sufficient good milk or cream to 
just cover, and put in a quick oven until nicely 
browned. 

POTATO AU GRATIN 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather fine ; season 
them with salt and pepper ; put them in a baking- 
dish, pour over sufficient cream sauce to just 



112 My Best 250 Recipes 

cover, dust the top with grated plain or Parmesan 
cheese, and put in a hot oven until nicely browned. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather fine ; to each 
half-pint add three tablespoonfuls of cream, half 
a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; mix; 
put a tablespoonful of butter into a shallow fry- 
ing-pan, put in the potatoes, flatten them in a 
perfectly smooth layer, cook slowly until a golden 
brown, fold one-half over the other, and turn out 
on a heated dish. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

Put a pint of cold mashed potatoes in a sauce- 
pan; add four tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a dash of pepper, a grating of nutmeg, and 
stir and beat until smooth and hot. Take from 
the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, and form into 
cylinder-shaped croquettes. Beat the white of 
one egg and add to it a tablespoonful of water; 
roll the croquettes in this, then in breadcrumbs, 
and fry in hot fat. 

The remaining white of egg may be used for 
some other dish. 

WHAT TO DO WITH LEFT-OVER BREAD 

The crusts of bread may be cut in blocks, 
browned in the oven, and put aside to sei've with 



My Best 250 Recipes 113 

soups. They may also be used in scalloped dishes, 
as scalloped tomatoes and cabbage. Dry the un- 
sightly and rougher pieces, grind or roll and use 
for breading. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Put a layer of dried bread-blocks in the bot- 
tom of a baking-dish, then a layer of stewed toma- 
toes, or bits of left-over raw tomatoes that are not 
sufficiently sightly for salads; dust over them a 
little chopped onion, chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper, another layer of bread-blocks, tomatoes, 
seasoning, and another layer of bread-blocks ; put 
here and there a bit of butter, and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

Chop any bits of cabbage that are not suffi- 
ciently sightly to serve raw, or use left-over 
stewed cabbage; make a cream sauce and mix it 
with the cabbage. Put a layer of bread-blocks in 
the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of 
creamed cabbage, another layer of bread-blocks, 
cabbage, and another layer of bread. Put here 
and there bits of butter, and bake in a quick oven 
for twenty minutes. 

Cabbage cooked in this way does not give off 
any unpleasant odor. 



114 My Best 250 Recipes 

BREAD MUFFINS 

Break into bits sufficient stale bread to fill 
a quart measure. Cover them with one pint of 
cold milk, soak for fifteen minutes, and then with 
a spoon stir and beat them to a smooth paste; 
add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, and one cupful of flour 
that has been sifted with a heaping teaspoonful of 
baking-powder; fold in carefully the well-beaten 
whites of the eggs, and bake in twelve greased 
muffin-pans, in a quick oven, for twenty minutes. 

Muffins left over from breakfast may be 
pulled, not cut apart, and toasted for luncheon or 
supper. 

BREAD PUDDING 

Beat two eggs without separating, add four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and beat again ; add one 
pint of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, a grating 
of nutmeg ; pour into a baking-dish, cover the top 
with buttered bread, buttered side up, and bake in 
a moderate oven until the custard is set (about 
twenty minutes). Serve cold. 

BREAD CROQUETTES 

These are very nice when they are served 
with fricassee of chicken, lamb or veal, and may 
take the place of other starchy food. 

Rub stale bread in the hands until it is evenly 
crumbed. To one quart of crumbs add four 



My Best 250 Recipes 115 

tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a cup of clean cur- 
rants, a grating of nutmeg and three well-beaten 
eggs ; work this mixture with the hand until it is 
moist, form in small pyramids, dip in egg, roll in 
breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

Sugar may be omitted if desired, and salt, 
pepper and parsley added. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Mash sufficient stewed prunes to make half 
a pint; press them through a colander; add four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and stir in the well-beaten 
whites of four eggs; turn in a baking-dish, dust 
with powdered sugar, and bake in a moderately 
quick oven for ten minutes. 

CHEESE 

Shells of Edam or pineapple cheese after 
being scooped out nearly clean may be saved to 
use as a baking-dish for creamed spaghetti, maca- 
roni or rice. After the dish is completed, pour it 
in the shell, stand it on a greased paper in a bak- 
ing-pan, and bake for fifteen minutes. Serve in 
the shell. 

Other bits of dried cheese may be grated and 
put aside to serve with macaroni or as a flavoring 
to bread-balls for soup. 



Ii6 My Best 250 Recipes 

LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES 

There comes a time every few days when 
even the economical housewife finds an accumu- 
lation of little things. Just a few peas, a few 
olives, a slice or two of beets, a cold potato, a 
little cold steak, a few bits of cold fish — all these 
may be utilized in salads. The Russian salad will 
take almost the entire quantity of meat and 
vegetables. 

Fish may be dressed with mayonnaise and 
served on lettuce leaves. Vegetables may be 
mixed and served on lettuce leaves with French 
dressing, or stuffed in peeled and scooped-out 
tomatoes. An Egyptian salad is palatable, sightly 
and easily made. Mix peas, string beans^ a little 
cress, chopped cabbage, a grated onion, and sea- 
son with salt, pepper and celery seed; fill this in 
scooped-out tomatoes, cover with French dressing, 
and use at once. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

Put one pint of cold boiled rice in a double 
boiler with a gill of milk; stir until hot, add the 
3-olk of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a 
teaspoonful of vanilla ; take from the fire and turn 
out to cool ; when cold form into cylinders, dip in 
egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat. If these 
are to be served with meat omit the sugar and 
vanilla, and add salt, pepper and parsley. 



My Best 250 Recipes 117 

LEMON RICE 

Stir one cupful of cold boiled rice in one pint 
of milk ; separate three eggs, add half a cupful of 
sugar to the yolks, beat thoroughly, add them to 
the rice mixture, and add the grated yellow rind 
and juice of one lemon. Turn this in a baking- 
dish, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty min- 
utes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, beat again until 
dry and light; heap this over the pudding, dust 
with powdered sugar, brown in the oven, and 
stand aside to cool. 

COMPOTE OF PEACHES 

Reheat cold boiled rice by standing it in a 
colander in a kettle of boiling water. Pare 
peaches, cut them in halves and remove the stones. 
Put the hot rice in the centre of a platter, cover 
with the peaches, dust with powdered sugar, and 
serve immediately with a pitcher of cream or milk. 

MEATS THAT ARE LEFT OVER 

Meats are the most costly of all articles of 
food; for this reason it is necessary to utilize all 
left-overs. The meat from soup may be used for 
curries, bobotee or any dish calling for high sea- 
sonings. It has in the long, slow cooking parted 
with both its odor and flavor, but not with its 
nourishing quality. Cold mutton may be made 



ii8 My Best 250 Recipes 

into pilau, a stew with rice, hash, a barbecue, 
or a casserole; in fact, all the so-called "French 
entrees" are simply rewarmed meats. Reheat 
white meats in white or yellow sauce ; dark meats 
in tomato or brown sauce. 

CROQUETTES 

This recipe will answer for all kinds of meat 
croquettes. Chop sufiScient cold meat to make 
one quart ; rub together two tablespoonf uls of but- 
ter and four rounding tablespoonf uls of flour; 
add them to a pint of hot milk ; stir and cook until 
it is a thick, smooth paste, and take from the fire. 
Add to the meat two level teaspoonfuls of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a dash of red 
pepper, a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley and a table- 
spoonful of onion juice. Mix thoroughly, add the 
cream sauce; mix again, and turn out to cool. 
When cold form into croquettes, dip in egg, roll 
in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat, 

CHICKEN IN RICE CASSEROLE 

Wash one cupful of rice, throw in boiling 
water, boil for twenty minutes, then drain. Add 
half a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, 
a level teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a tea- 



My Best 250 Recipes iig 

spoonful of pepper ; stir to a rather smooth paste. 
Brush custard-cups with butter and Hne them to 
the depth of half an inch with the rice mixture. 
Rub two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour 
together; add a pint of milk, stir until boiling; 
add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and 
one pint of nicely-seasoned blocks of cold cooked 
chicken. Fill this mixture in the centre of the 
cups, cover with a layer of rice, stand in a pan of 
boiling water, and cook in the oven for twenty 
minutes. Turn carefully on a heated dish, gar- 
nish with nicely-seasoned peas, and send to the 
table. 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

Cut bits of cold roasted fowl, turkey or duck 
in cubes of one inch. Measure ; to each pint allow 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour, half a pint of milk and the hard-boiled yolks 
of three eggs. Rub the butter and flour together, 
add the milk, stir until boiling; add this gradu- 
ally to the yolks of the eggs, rubbing all the while. 
When you have a perfectly smooth, thick, yellow 
sauce, add the chicken; stand it over hot water 
for at least twenty minutes, add a level teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper and a 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce or soy. Serve 
smoking hot. 



I20 My Best 250 Recipes 

CREAMED FISH 

Rub together one tablespoonful of butter and 
one of flour; add half a pint of milk, stir until 
boiling; take from the fire, add a level teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and one pint of 
cold cooked fish, picked in flakes ; stand this over 
hot water until thoroughly heated. Serve on toast, 
in pate shells, paper cases or in a potato border. 



MY BEST GAME AND 
POULTRY RECIPES 

In buying poultry choose those which are 
well fed but not too fat. Young chickens, ducks 
and geese are recommended to invalids, not that 
they are more nutritious or tender, but because 
they contain less fat. Duck is less digestible than 
turkey or chicken. Wild birds, "game" as we 
call them, being natural, are not over fat, hence 
are more wholesome than the barnyard overfed 
fowls. 

The ordinary hog is an excellent example of 
an over-fattened animal. The deer, a natural 
wild animal, has scarcely a trace of fat; the flesh 
is tender and very easy of digestion. The red 
flesh of wild land birds and animals is less stimu- 
lating, and when carefully cooked is wholesome 
and easily digested. All meats should be quickly 
heated at first. This sears the outside and retains 
the flavor and juices. The after-cooking may be 
done slowly, especially with white-fleshed birds, 
as turkey and chicken. Game is best cooked 
quickly and served at once. 

There is quite a difference in quality and 
flavor of wild ducks. The canvasback and red- 
head ducks are always best cooked without stuff- 



122 My Best 250 Recipes 

ing ; it seems a pity to stufif these fine birds. Mal- 
lards, teals, widgeons and woodducks may be 
stuffed with rice, hominy or potatoes nicely sea- 
soned with chopped English walnuts. Canvas- 
backs and redheads are vegetable eaters, hence the 
flesh is sweet and palatable. 

A SIMPLE GAME PIE 

Boil one cupful of rice in plenty of water for 
half an hour. Drain, and add half a cupful of 
milk, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pep- 
per and a tablespoonful of butter. Beat and mix 
well. Cut the birds in halves or quarters accord- 
ing to the size ; put them in a baking-dish, season 
with salt, pepper, chopped onion and chopped 
parsley. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter and two of flour, add a pint of water or stock, 
stir until boiling ; add a teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce and one of salt. Pour this hot over 
the game; cover with a crust of rice, brush with 
milk, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

WILD DUCKS 

Clean the ducks carefully. Truss them in 
shape, dust with pepper, brush with butter, put 
them in a baking-pan, and add a half cup of 
stock. Run in a very hot oven ; in a moment the 
stock will evaporate and there will be sufficient 
fat in the pan to baste the ducks ; do this two or 



My Best 250 Recipes 123 

three times for three-quarters of an hour. All 
red meats should be served rare, and wild duck 
is one of the reddest of meats. 

Many of the water birds living upon fish have 
a decided fishy flavor; this may be overcome by 
filling the bodies with finely chopped celery and 
rubbing the breast with onion. 

BROILED VENISON STEAKS 

Cut the steak about three-quarters of an inch 
in thickness; have everything ready, as it takes 
but a moment to broil, and venison must be served 
immediately. Have the serving-dish nicely heated 
and rubbed with butter. Put a teaspoonful of 
currant jelly, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce and a quarter of a cupful of stock into a 
sauce-pan; add half a teaspoonful of salt; stand 
it where it will not boil, but will get very hot. 
Put the venison in a dry frying-pan over the fire, 
turn it constantly for five minutes; or in your 
broiler, and broil for eight minutes, turning every 
minute. Put it at once on the platter, pour over 
the sauce, and send to the table. 

POTTED PIGEONS 

Pigeons are better cooked in a moist heat. 
Singe, truss them in good shape, and put them in 
a baking-pan. Put them in a hot oven and keep 
them there until they are nicely browned. While 



124 My Best 250 Recipes 

they are browning rub together two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and two of flour; add a pint of 
stock; stir until boiling; add a teaspoonful of 
browning or kitchen bouquet, chopped onion, a 
bay leaf, a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful 
of pepper. Arrange the pigeons in a pot, cas- 
serole-dish or saucepan, pour over the sauce, cover, 
and put in the oven to cook slowly for one hour 
and a half. 

Pass with these boiled rice, peas or asparagus 
tips and a sour jelly. 

SMALL BIRDS 

Blackbirds, reedbirds and other small birds 
may be roasted whole, or put them in scooped-out 
potatoes, fasten with a skewer, and bake for half 
an hour. Serve them in the potatoes with brown 
sauce poured over. 

Grouse are very good wrapped in a piece of 
bacon, then dusted with salt and pepper, rolled in 
oiled paper, and baked for half an hour in a quick 
oven, basting once or twice with hot stock. 
While they are baking mix two tablespoonfuls of 
Worcestershire sauce with the juice of two 
lemons. Baste the birds well with this, and dish 
on buttered toast. 

PANNED BIRDS 
This recipe will answer for all land birds. 
Split them down the back, remove the intestines, 



My Best 250 Recipes 125 

and wipe the birds with a damp cloth. Put them 
in a baking-pan, flesh side up; cover the bottom 
of the pan with half a pint of hot stock or water. 
Put them in a very hot oven for fifteen minutes; 
baste, and dust with salt and pepper. Take out 
one bird and put the rest back for another fifteen 
or twenty minutes, according to the size. Cut the 
underdone bird in pieces and squeeze out all the 
juice. Grind or chop the breast and rub it with 
the livers, which have been boiled for twenty min- 
utes. Add to them the juice, and two ounces of 
melted butter; heat over hot water. Dish each 
bird on a slice of toast, baste with the liver sauce, 
garnish with a sour jelly, and serve at once. 

OPOSSUM 

Skin, singe and wipe the opossum inside and 
out, then hang in a cold place for several days. 
Boil and mash four good-sized white potatoes; 
add a cupful of black walnuts chopped fine; add 
a teaspoonful of salt, a grating of onion, and a 
dash of pepper. Fill the opossum, sew it up, place 
it in the roasting-pan, pour over a quart of boiling 
water or stock, dust with salt and pepper, and 
roast for three hours, basting frequently. Have 
the oven very hot at first, then cool it down 
to about 240° Fahrenheit. Serve with this kale 
or spinach and panned baked apples, or apple 
sauce and cornbread. 



126 My Best 250 Recipes 

TO COOK AN OLD FOWL 

Draw and truss it in shape; do not stuff. 
Put inside a tablespoonful of chopped onion and 
a dusting of salt and pepper. Brown it quickly 
in a hot oven, then roll it in oiled paper, replace 
it in the pan, add a cupful of hot water, cover with 
another pan, and cook slowly for one hour and 
a half. 

A BROWN FRICASSEE 

This is one of the daintiest of chicken dishes. 
Singe, draw and disjoint a chicken as you would 
for stewing; put two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
a saucepan; when hot, not brown, put in the 
breasts of the chicken, flesh side down; let them 
cook quickly ; take them out, being careful not to 
brown the butter. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour; mix; add a pint of water or stock, a level 
teaspoonful of salt, two bay leaves, and a table- 
spoonful of grated onion; when boiling add the 
chicken, putting the rough pieces, like the rack 
and back, in the bottom, then the dark meat, and 
on top the white pieces, flesh side down. Cover 
the saucepan, and simmer gently for one hour. 
When the chicken is tender, dish ; remove the fat 
from the surface of the sauce, take it from the 
fire, add the yolk of one egg beaten with four 
tablespoonfuls of cream; strain this over the 
chicken; dust it thickly with chopped parsley or 
chopped celery and garnish the dish with tiny 



My Best 250 Recipes 127 

milk biscuits, squares of toast, or squares of care- 
fully fried white commeal mush. Pass currant 
or guava jelly; or serve with rice. 

A CREOLE STEW 

Draw, singe and disjoint a chicken; put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan; add three 
good-sized onions cut in very thin slices; cook 
until the onion is soft without browning. Put in 
the chicken, the rougher pieces first, then the 
white meat on top. Add half a pint of finely- 
chopped celery and sufficient strained stewed 
tomatoes to cover the chicken, about one quart. 
Simmer gently for one hour; add a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper or one 
sweet pepper chopped fine. Have ready one pint 
of fresh corn cut from the cob, or one can of 
corn ; spread this over the top, cover and heat thor- 
oughly. Dish the chicken in the middle of a large 
platter, put the corn on top, and strain over the 
sauce. Serve with plain boiled rice. 

BENGAL CURRY 

Cut two young chickens into joints the same 
as for fricassee. Put the dark meat and bony 
pieces in the bottom of the saucepan, the white 
meat on top. Cover with boiling water, bring 
quickly to a boil, and simmer gently for one hour ; 
add a chopped onion, a bay leaf, a teaspoonful of 



128 My Best 250 Recipes 

salt, and simmer for thirty minutes longer. The 
chicken must be very tender. Press through a 
sieve one can of Spanish sweet peppers; do not 
use any of the oil in which they are canned. Rub 
together a tablespoonful of butter and two of 
flour"; add half a pint of water in which the 
chicken was boiled, and the peppers that have 
been pressed through a sieve; add half a cupful 
of thick, stewed tomatoes, and stir the whole 
until it reaches the boiling point. Put two tea- 
spoonfuls of curry in a bowl, add just a little 
stock to moisten; add this to the other sauce; 
then add grated onion. Cook, stirring constantly, 
for five minutes. Take from the fire, and add half 
a cupful of thick cream and another tablespoonful 
of butter. Lift the pieces of chicken, put them in 
the sauce, stand over hot water covered closely for 
at least twenty minutes. Serve in a deep dish, 
and pass with dry, plain, boiled rice. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES 

This recipe will answer for all sorts of tim- 
bales, veal, fish or game. 

Put half a pint of uncooked white meat of 
chicken twice through a meat-grinder, then put 
it in a bowl and with a wooden spoon rub to a 
paste. Put half a pint of soft white breadcrumbs 
and half a cupful of milk in a saucepan over the 



My Best 250 Recipes 129 

fire; cook until smooth; take from the fire and 
when cold add it gradually to the chicken, rub- 
bing all the while. Add a level teaspoonful of 
salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and five tablespoon- 
fuls of thick cream ; press this through a sieve and 
stir in carefully the well-beaten whites of five 
eggs; fill the mixture into small timbale-moulds, 
stand them in a baking-pan of boiling water, cover 
with oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve with plain cream or 
creamed mushroom sauce, and peas. 

It is wise to line the bottoms of the moulds 
with buttered paper, and, if you wish, garnish 
them with chopped truffles or mushrooms. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Chop sufficient cold boiled chicken to make 
one quart; add to it two level teaspoonfuls of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, a 
quarter of a grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of 
grated onion and a saltspoonful of red pepper; 
mix thoroughly. Put over the fire a pint of milk ; 
add to it, rubbed to a smooth paste, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and four of flour; stir until 
smooth and thick; add the chicken; mix well, 
and turn out to cool; when cold form into cro- 
quettes, dip in egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry 
in hot fat. Serve plain or with peas. 



130 My Best 250 Recipes 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE 

Chop sufficient cold cooked chicken to make 
a pint; put two rounding tablespoonfuls of flour 
into a small saucepan; measure half a pint of 
milk ; add it slowly to the flour, and when smooth 
cook it over boiling water until it forms a paste. 
Take from the fire, and add hastily a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and the yolks of four eggs ; add the 
chicken, a rounding teaspoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and, if you like, a saltspoon- 
ful of celery seed. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, stir them in carefully, turn the 
mixture into a baking-pan, and bake in a quick 
oven for thirty minutes. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

Draw and truss into shape a chicken not over 
a year old. Peel twelve small onions, cut in fancy 
shapes, and cut a good-sized carrot and turnip; 
cut into pieces half an inch thick the tender part 
of one head of celery. Put the vegetables in the 
bottom of the casserole-mould, cover with a pint 
of boiling stock ; add a bay leaf, a teaspoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Rub or brush 
the chicken with melted butter, place it on top of 
the vegetables, and stand the mould in a quick 
oven for thirty minutes until the chicken is nicely 
browned; then cover the mould, and cook slowly 



My Best 250 Recipes 131 

for one hour. Serve in the mould. Of course you 
will remove the chicken for carving. 

Beef and mutton may be cooked in the same 
way. 

BAKED GOOSE 

Select a young goose ; singe and draw it, and 
wipe it carefully inside and out. Boil three good- 
sized potatoes; when done mash them; add to 
them an equal quantity of soft breadcrumbs, half 
a can of mushrooms chopped fine, a teaspoonful 
of onion juice, a saltspoonful of celery seed, or 
half a cupful of chopped celery, and a rounding 
teaspoonful of salt; mix these together, stuff 
them into the goose; sew up the vent, put the 
goose in shape, stand it in a baking-pan, and pour 
in the pan a quart of strained tomatoes; add a 
teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of chopped 
onion; bake in a quick oven until the goose is 
thoroughly browned. Cool the oven, and bake 
slowly for one hour and a half, basting frequently. 
When done there should be sufficient sauce in the 
bottom of the pan to measure half a pint; strain 
it in a gravy-boat. 

BAKED TURKEY 

Three days after the turkey has been hung 
wipe it on the outside with a damp cloth and care- 
fully wipe the inside. Truss it in shape ; put it in 
a baking-pan. Add two teaspoonfuls of salt to 



132 My Best 250 Recipes 

half a pint of water or stock; turn this into the 
pan. Rub the breast of the turkey with either the 
turkey fat or butter ; put in a very hot oven where 
it will brown quickly. When it is thoroughly 
browned cool the oven and roast slowly for fifteen 
minutes to each pound of turkey, basting every 
twenty minutes. If the stock or water in the pan 
evaporates tilt the turkey; you will find the body 
of the turkey containing a large quantity of melted 
fat ; baste with this instead of stock or water. 

Turkey roasted in this way is much sweeter 
than when stuffed. 



MY BEST TWENTY 
BREADS AND BISCUITS 

To make good breads one should be able to 
select good yeast and flour. The compressed 
yeast cakes, sold in almost every grocery store, 
are, as a rule, good, clean and reliable. These, 
with a small bread machine, will enable the house- 
wife to make good bread quickly and easily; in 
fact, I allow only four hours from sponge to oven. 

TWENTIETH CENTURY BREAD 

To make four box loaves of bread, scald one 
pint of milk; add one pint of water, and when 
the mixture is lukewarm add one small com- 
pressed yeast cake dissolved in half a cupful of 
warm water, a level teaspoonful of salt, and suffi- 
cient whole wheat flour to make a batter; beat 
continuously for five minutes ; cover and stand in 
a warm place, 75° Fahrenheit, for two hours and 
a half. Then add flour slowly, stirring all the 
while, until the dough is sufficiently hard to turn 
on a baking-board. Knead until it loses its sticki- 
ness; divide it in loaves; put each loaf in a 
greased square pan; cover and stand in the same 
warm place for one hour, or until it has doubled 

133 



134 My Best 250 Recipes 

its bulk. Brush the top with water, and bake in 
a moderately quick oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. 

BREAD STICKS 

Roll a portion of the twentieth century bread 
out in long, narrow strips about the size of a lead 
pencil; cut them in lengths to fit the bread-stick 
pans ; put each in its own compartment and cover 
in a warm place for thirty minutes; brush with 
water, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

OLD MAIDS 

Shape a portion of twentieth century bread 
in round biscuits about the diameter of a silver 
dollar and half an inch thick. Flour the bread 
board or cloth; place them so they cannot touch 
each other ; cover and stand in a warm place until 
they are very light, for about one hour. Heat 
slowly an ordinary cake griddle; grease lightly; 
put on the "old maids"; bake slowly for fifteen 
minutes and then turn them. Bake for twenty- 
five minutes. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

Scald a pint of milk ; add half a pint of water ; 
when lukewarm add one yeast cake dissolved in 
half a cupful of water; add a tablespoonful of 
molasses, a level teaspoonful of salt, and suffi- 



My Best 250 Recipes 135 

cient graham flour to make a batter that will drop 
from a spoon; beat for five minutes; cover and 
stand in a warm place, 75° Fahrenheit, for three 
hours. Add one pint of graham flour, beat again ; 
pour in three greased square pans; cover and 
stand aside for one hour. Bake in a moderate 
oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

GOLDEN LOAF 

Pare and boil half a pound of white pota- 
toes; drain; dust lightly with salt; shake them 
until dry and press them through a colander. Add 
one pint of scalded milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a tablespoonful of sugar, two eggs well 
beaten, and one compressed yeast cake dissolved 
in a quarter of a cupful of warm water. Add a 
quart of white flour, and beat continuously for 
five minutes ; then add flour slowly until you have 
a soft dough; knead for ten minutes until it is 
light and elastic. Put it in a bowl that has been 
slightly buttered; cover and stand in a warm 
place, 75° Fahrenheit, until it has doubled its 
bulk, or about three hours and a half. Divide it 
in two loaves, mould each lightly, put in greased 
square pans; cover and stand in the same place 
for one hour and a quarter, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 



136 My Best 250 Recipes 

POCKETBOOK ROLLS 

Scald one pint of milk. Rub a rounding 
tablespoon ful of butter in a quart and a pint of 
white flour; put it in a bowl and make a well in 
the centre. Add one yeast cake, dissolved in three 
tablespoonfuls of warm water, to the cool milk; 
pour it in the well, and dust the flour from the 
sides of the bowl over the top of the milk ; do not 
stir, but cover and stand in a warm place, 75° 
Fahrenheit, for three hours. Stir in gradually 
the flour, adding a teaspoonful of salt. Take this 
soft dough on the board, knead continuously for 
fifteen minutes; then pound it with a potato- 
masher for ten minutes longer, turning and fold- 
ing almost constantly. Roll the dough in a sheet 
half an inch thick ; cut with a large round cutter ; 
press the centre with the back of a knife handle; 
brush one-half with a little melted butter and fold 
over the other, slightly pressing the two together. 
Stand in a shallow greased pan, sufficiently far 
apart not to touch in baking. Cover the pan and 
stand in a warm place for one hour and a half. 
Brush the tops lightly with milk, and bake in a 
quick oven, 400° Fahrenheit, for twenty minutes. 

GERMAN NUT HORNS OR CRESCENTS 

These are exceedingly nice rolls to serve with 
salads at evening or afternoon receptions. 



My Best 250 Recipes 137 

Heat a pint of milk in a double boiler; take 
from the fire, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of butter and half a teaspoonful 
of salt; when lukewarm add a compressed yeast 
cake dissolved in a quarter of a cupful of cold 
water. Add one pint of flour and beat continu- 
ously for five minutes; then add slowly sufficient 
flour to make a soft dough; knead until it loses 
its stickiness. It must not be as stiff as bread. 
Cover the bowl, stand in a warm place, 75° 
Fahrenheit, for three hours and a half; turn the 
dough carefully on a floured board ; do not knead. 
Roll lightly in a sheet half an inch thick. Cut in 
crescents; stand them in a greased baking-pan 
sufficiently far apart as not to touch in the baking ; 
cover for about three-quarters of an hour, or until 
they are very light. Run them in a very hot 
oven, 400° Fahrenheit. Beat the white of an 
egg, a tablespoonful of sugar and one of milk 
until well mixed. Have ready blanched and 
chopped fine twenty-four almonds. When the 
crescents have been in the oven for ten minutes 
draw them to the door, brush the tops with the 
egg mixture, sprinkle thickly with almonds, push 
them back, and bake for five minutes longer. 

PULLED BREAD 

To pull bread the bread must be baked in 
long loaves, the grain running from end to end; 



138 My Best 250 Recipes 

it must be perfectly baked and thoroughly cold, 
then pulled. French bread is best. Whittle off 
the outside crust, then with two forks pull the 
loaves in halves, divide each half in quarters, and 
the quarters in eighths. Place these strips, ragged 
edges upward, in a long shallow pan that has been 
lined with soft brown paper ; stand the pan in the 
oven, leaving the oven door open until each strip 
is dry to the centre. Close the door, increase the 
heat, and bake until a golden brown. This will 
keep as long as zwieback. After the first day, 
however, reheat at serving-time. 

POTATO TEA BISCUITS 

Pare half a pound of potatoes, cover with 
boiling water, boil for ten minutes; drain this 
water off and throw it away. Cover with a quart 
of freshly boiled water, and boil until the pota- 
toes are tender ; press them through a sieve, using 
the water in which they were boiled. Add hastily, 
while the potatoes are hot, half a pint of flour; 
beat thoroughly until smooth; add a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar; when 
lukewarm add one yeast cake dissolved in a quar- 
ter of a cupful of warm water. Cover and stand 
at about 80° Fahrenheit for one hour. Add a 
pint of milk that has been scalded and cooled, and 
sufficient flour to make a batter ; beat thoroughly ; 



My Best 250 Recipes 139 

cover again for one hour ; add one egg well beaten, 
and flour to make a dough; knead thoroughly 
until soft and elastic. Then pound with a potato- 
masher, constantly folding the dough. Form in 
one large loaf, put in a buttered bowl, stand in a 
warm place for one hour and a half. Mould in 
tiny rolls, place in French-roll pans, and stand 
aside for three-quarters of an hour. Brush the 
tops with milk, and bake in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes. After they have been baked for 
fifteen minutes brush the tops with glaze made 
by beating the white of egg with a tablespoonful 
of water. 

EGG ROLLS 

Add half a teaspoonful of salt and two 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder to one 
quart of flour; sift two or three times, and rub 
in one rounding tablespoonful of butter. Beat 
one egg without separating; add to it one cupful 
and a half of milk ; add this gradually to the flour. 
The dough must be soft but not wet. Turn out 
quickly, roll in a sheet half an inch thick, and 
cut with a large round cutter ; dip a knife handle 
in flour, press down the centre, making a sort of 
hinge; brush one-half with melted butter, fold 
over the same as "pocketbook" rolls. Stand at 
once in shallow pans, brush the tops with milk, 
and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 



I40 My Best 250 Recipes 

SWEET MILK SCONES 

Add half a teaspoonful of salt and one 
rounding teaspoonful of baking powder to a 
pint of flour; sift once or twice, and rub in one 
tablespoonful of butter. Stir in one cupful of 
sweet milk. The dough must be sufficiently soft 
to drop from the spoon. Dip a tablespoon in 
boiling water, then take up a tablespoonful of 
dough and drop into a greased pan, keeping the 
scones sufficiently far apart not to touch in the 
baking. Bake quickly for twenty minutes. 

Sour milk may be used in the place of sweet 
milk, substituting half a teaspoonful of baking 
soda for the baking powder. 

Scotch scones are made from sour milk and 
flour, the dough being sufficiently thick to roll 
and cut. These are baked on a griddle, turning 
them several times during the baking. 

BREAKFAST FRUIT GEMS 

Stone and chop twenty-four dates; mix 
them with half a cupful of seedless raisins. 
Separate two eggs, beat the yolks and add one 
cupful and a half of milk, then the dates and 
raisins, half a cupful of cornmeal and one cup- 
ful of whole wheat flour; beat thoroughly; add 
two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 
beat again and fold in the well-beaten whites. 
Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 



My Best 250 Recipes 141 

OATMEAL WAFFLES 

Waffles are rather better than griddle cakes; 
being baked on both sides at the same time, the 
starch cells are more apt to be ruptured. Griddle 
cakes contain uncooked starch which renders 
them indigestible. 

Add one pint of left-over oatmeal breakfast 
porridge to one pint of milk; stir in half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one cupful of whole wheat flour 
and a tablespoonful of butter melted. Add the 
yolks of three eggs, beaten thoroughly, and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix and fold in 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake at 
once. 

EGG BREAD 

Add one level teaspoonful of bicarbonate of 
soda to one pint of thick, sour milk or butter- 
milk ; add half a teaspoonful of salt and two eggs 
well beaten; stir in hastily one cupful and a half 
of Southern cornmeal; turn at once in a shallow 
greased pan and bake from thirty to forty minutes 
in a quick oven. Serve hot. 

POP-OVERS 

Beat two eggs without separating until they 
are light; add half a pint of milk, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and add them gradually to a 



142 My Best 250 Recipes 

pint of flour, stirring all the while. Strain and 
turn at once in twelve hot, greased pop-over cups. 
Bake in a quick oven for forty minutes. 

WAFER BREAD TO SERVE WITH SALADS 

Dissolve half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of 
soda in half a cupful of warm water; add suffi- 
cient warm water, about one cupful, to moisten 
a quart of whole wheat flour. The dough must 
be rather hard. Knead it continuously for fifteen 
minutes, then pound it with a potato-masher for 
from five to ten minutes, or put it through a bis- 
cuit brake. Roll the dough in a very thin sheet, 
cut in squares of two inches, prick with a 
fork, and bake in a moderately quick oven until 
crisp and brown. Half a pint of peanut or pine- 
nut butter may be rubbed in the flour before add- 
ing the water. 

VIRGINIA BISCUITS 

Rub one tablespoonful of shortening into a 
quart of soft white flour; add a level teaspoonful 
of salt. Mix two-thirds of a cupful of milk with 
an equal quantity of water; add this gradually 
to the flour, stirring all the while ; the dough must 
be hard, not wet. It may not take the entire quan- 
tity of moisture ; for this reason add it gradually. 
Knead the dough continuously for fifteen minutes. 



My Best 250 Recipes 143 

then pound it for fifteen minutes longer, folding 
and turning constantly. Roll in a sheet as thin 
as a wafer, cut in squares, prick the top of each 
one with a fork. Stand in a baking-pan, where 
they will not touch each other, and bake in a 
moderate oven until crisp and brown. 

If well made these biscuits are very light 
and digestible. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

Scald a pint of flour; when lukewarm add 
half a compressed yeast cake dissolved in a quar- 
ter of a cupful of cold water; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and the whites of two eggs well 
beaten ; stir in slowly two cupf uls of gluten flour ; 
beat thoroughly, and stand aside in a warm place, 
75" Fahrenheit, for three hours; then add slowly 
as much flour as the dough will hold and enable 
you to stir it easily. Pour the batter in two square 
greased pans; cover and stand in the same warm 
place for one hour and a half, and bake in a 
moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

OATMEAL BROWN BREAD 

Mix a pint of rolled oats, a pint of rolled 
wheat, half a pint of granulated, yellow corn- 
meal, half a pint of whole wheat flour and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Dissolve a teaspoonful of 



144 My Best 250 Recipes 

bicarbonate of soda in two tablespoonfuls of 
warm water ; add it to half a pint of New Orleans 
molasses ; stir and add this to a pint of thick, sour 
milk; mix with the dry ingredients. Pour in a 
greased brown-bread mould, and boil or steam 
continuously for four hours. 



MY BEST CHRISTMAS 

CANDIES, CAKES 

AND PUDDINGS 

The attractive candies manufactured by the 
first-class confectioners may be daintily made by 
the ordinary housewife, but it requires inventive- 
ness, patience and much experience to make them 
perfect. Do not attempt too great variety at 
first: select a few that do not call for the touch 
and skill of a professional. To be successful, 
first learn to boil the sugar to the correct point. 
Dn a damp day patience will be required. 

Before beginning select three or four new, < 
small saucepans, holding from a pint to a quart, 
several measuring-cups, and six small cups for 
melting fondant (ordinary stoneware coffee-cups 
will answer the purpose), two or three candy- 
tongs, half a dozen candy-dippers, three small 
wooden paddles, six-inch spatula, a teller knife, 
a dish-mop, a half-inch paste-brush, a small twen- 
ty-five-cent alcohol stove, and, if possible, a mar- 
ble slab. 

Use granulated sugar for the fondant. 
Make the fondant one day and the candies the 



146 My Best 250 Recipes 

next. Fondant will form the basis of two-thirds 
of the French candies and the coverings of nuts, 
fruits, etc. 

THE WAY TO MAKE AND USE FONDANT 

Put one pound of sugar into a granite sauce- 
pan, add half a pint of water, and stir over the 
fire with a wooden paddle until the sugar is 
dissolved, not an instant longer. With a sponge 
or piece of soft cheesecloth wipe the crystals from 
the side of the saucepan; if they are allowed to 
fall in the syrup they will cause granulation. The 
syrup must boil without stirring or without 
motion until it will form a soft ball when dropped 
into ice-water. As soon as this stage has been 
reached pour the syrup on a very lightly-greased 
marble slab, or a large meat-platter. Watch the 
syrup carefully; when it is cool enough to bear 
your finger begin to stir rapidly and constantly 
with a wooden paddle until a thick, white, creamy 
mass is formed. Dust a board with confection- 
ers' sugar ; take the mass in your hands and knead 
it as you would bread; it will soon become soft 
and smooth. Put this into a bowl ; cover at once 
with a piece of wet cheesecloth. Do not make 
more than one pound at a time. 

CREAMED FRUITS 
Creamed fruits are made by dipping the 
fruits in melted fondant. Add a little water. 



My Best 250 Recipes 147 

drop by drop, until the fondant is sufficiently 
thin to cover the fruit. Always melt it in a 
small pan standing in a pan of hot water. Stir 
the fondant constantly while it is melting. 

Oranges, candied cherries, white grapes and 
nuts make very nice confections when neatly 
dipped. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CREAMS 

Work half a pound of fondant until creamy, 
and add, a little at a time, a teaspoon ful of vanilla 
extract. Have ready English walnuts shelled 
and divided in halves ; take a piece of the fondant 
the size of a marble, roll in the hand, place it 
between two halves of the walnuts, press together 
and stand them aside to harden. 

Creamed dates are simply dates with the 
stones removed and the spaces filled with flavored 
fondant. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS 

Boil one pound of sugar and half a pint of 
water for five minutes; after they begin to boil, 
add three drops of good oil of peppermint, or a 
teaspoonful of strong essence of peppermint ; take 
the mixture from the fire, stir rapidly until it 
begins to have a whitish appearance, then pour it 
quickly into tiny greased or oiled patty-pan 
moulds. The drops will be ready to serve as soon 
as they are hard. 



148 My Best 250 Recipes 

The mixture must be stirred sufficiently long 
to look white as it goes into the pans. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Put half a pound of grated, unsweetened 
chocolate, four ounces of butter, one pound of 
brown sugar, half a cupful of molasses, half a 
cupful of cream and a teaspoonful of vanilla 
sugar into a granite saucepan ; stir the whole over 
a slow fire until thoroughly mixed, and then boil 
slowly until the mixture hardens when dropped 
into ice-water. Turn into greased, shallow pans 
and stand aside to cool. When nearly cold dip 
a sharp knife in olive oil, mark the caramels in 
squares; when cold break apart and wrap in 
waxed paper. 

PANOCHA 

Have ready shelled a quantity of pecan nuts. 
Put one pound of dark brown sugar and half a 
cupful of cream into a saucepan; stir over the 
fire until it melts and boils, and forms a soft ball 
when dropped into cold water. Take from the 
fire, add half a pint of pecans, stir until the sugar 
is granulated, and then drop it in little cakes on 
oiled paper. 

MEXICAN SUGAR CANDY 

Shell sufficient pecans to make half a pint of 
meats. Put a cupful of granulated sugar into an 



My Best 250 Recipes 149 

iron saucepan, stir until it melts but do not let it 
burn. Take from the fire and when slightly 
cooled add a cupful of milk, another cupful of 
sugar and stir the whole until, when dropped into 
cold water, the syrup forms a soft ball. Take 
from the fire, add the nuts, stir until it granu- 
lates, and turn into a shallow, greased pan. 
Quickly flatten it out, and when cold break into 
squares. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Put one pound of fondant on the working 
board; add a teaspoonful of vanilla sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and work the mass 
until well mixed ; form into tiny balls the size of 
a marble and put them on oiled paper to harden. 
Make the covering by putting a quarter of a pound 
of grated chocolate into a small saucepan, stand 
this in a pan of boiling water, add half a pound 
of fondant, a teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and 
sufficient boiling water to make it the consistency 
of very thick cream. Put the water in a teaspoon- 
ful at a time, keeping the mixture hot and stirring 
all the while. Drop in the hardened balls with 
the left hand, dip them out with the candy-dipper 
in the right hand and put on oiled paper to harden. 

A little practice will enable you to shape and 
drop these chocolate creams neatly and easily. 



150 My Best 250 Recipes 

FINE ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

Stone a pound of raisins ; mix with them one 
pound of currants, half a pound of minced, 
candied orange peel, three-quarters of a pound of 
breadcrumbs, one pound of suet that has been 
shredded and chopped fine, a quarter of a pound 
of flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, half 
a nutmeg grated and the grated rind of one lemon. 
Beat five eggs without separating the whites from 
the yolks, and add half a pint of good grape juice ; 
mix this with the dry ingredients, working the 
whole thoroughly until the mixture is moist but 
not wet. 

Pack in greased moulds, or small tin kettles ; 
cover, and steam or boil continuously for ten 
hours. Take the puddings from the water, re- 
move the lids and cool in the moulds. Next 
morning replace the lids and put the puddings 
aside for two, three or four weeks, until needed. 
The longer they stand the better. But do not over- 
look the important point that they should be kept 
in a cool place. 

CHRISTMAS FRUIT PUDDING 

Put a quart of milk into a double boiler ; beat 
the yolks of four eggs with one cupful of sugar 
until very light; add a little hot milk, return the 
mixture to the boiler and cook until you have a 
thick, soft custard. Take from the fire and add 



My Best 250 Recipes 151 

a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. When cold turn 
the mixture into a freezing-can, pack, and turn 
until it is slightly frozen. Add a quarter of a 
pound of chopped, candied cherries, a cupful of 
sultanas, a quarter of a pound of candied pine- 
apple, chopped rather fine, and, if you have them, 
three or four grated macaroons. Fold in this one 
pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth, cover the 
can, repack, stand it aside for one hour, and the 
pudding will be ready to serve. 

MARLBOROUGH JPUDDING 

Core five good-sized tart apples, cut them in 
thin slices, put them into a saucepan with half a 
cupful of water, cover the saucepan, cook quickly 
until the apples are soft; press them through a 
sieve. While they are hot add four tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Beat the yolks of six eggs with 
two cupfuls of granulated sugar ; add a quart of 
milk, a teaspoonful of vanilla extract and the 
apples; pour the mixture into a baking-dish and 
bake in a quick oven for thirty-five minutes. Beat 
the whites of the eggs until fairly stiff, add six 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat until 
fine and dry. Spread this over the top of the pud- 
ding, dust thickly with powdered sugar, and put 
the pudding back in the oven for just a moment 
to brown nicely. Serve it cold. A pudding made 



152 My Best 250 Recipes 

of the quantity of materials given here will be 
sufficient for ten persons. 

QUEEN MAB PUDDING 

Cover half a box of gelatine with half a cup- 
ful of cold water and let stand for half an hour. 
Whip one pint of cream to a stiff froth. Put a 
pint of milk into a double boiler; when hot add 
the gelatine. Beat the yolks of four eggs and 
two-thirds of a cupful of sugar together until 
light; add the hot milk, gradually; return to the 
farina-boiler; cook for about two minutes, take 
from the fire; add a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract; strain into a bowl, stand this in a pan of 
cracked ice, and stir constantly until the mixture 
just begins to thicken. At this stage fold in 
quickly the whipped cream, pour into a mould, 
and stand away to harden. 

Serve with candied or preserved cherries and 
plain whipped cream. 

A PLAIN CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

Shred and chop half a pound of suet; pick 
over and stone half a pound of raisins. Put the 
suet in a bowl, add one cupful of New Orleans 
molasses, one cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of water, a 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, and then stir in three 
cupfuls of flour that have been sifted with two 



My Best 250 Recipes 153 

teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat vigorously, 
then add the raisins that have been slightly dusted 
with a little extra flour; pour into a greased 
pudding-mould, or pudding-bag ; boil continuously 
for three hours. 

Serve this pudding hot with either liquid or 
hard sauce. 

DRIED FRUIT CAKE 

Soak three cupfuls of dried apples or any 
dried fruit in sufficient cold water to cover, for 
twelve hours; drain, and chop rather fine. 
Cover with two cupfuls of molasses, simmer 
gently over a slow fire for two hours, and stand 
aside to cool. Beat one cupful of sugar and two 
eggs together until very light; add three-quar- 
ters of a cupful of butter that has been washed 
and softened; add the apples, a cupful of milk, 
a teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of 
cloves, half a nutmeg grated, and a level tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
warm water. Sift one pound of pastry flour and 
stir it into the mixture gradually. Bake the cake 
in a round, greased pan in a moderate oven for 
two hours. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE 

Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream ; add 
one cupful and a half of sugar, beating all the 



154 My Best 250 Recipes 

while. Measure three-quarters of a cupful of 
water; sift two cupfuls of flour with three level 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Chop sufficient 
hickory-nut kernels to make one cupful. Add 
first a little of the water to the butter and sugar, 
then more water and flour until both are used; 
beat thoroughly for three minutes. Beat the 
whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add one-half 
to the mixture, then add the nuts, and last the 
remaining whites of eggs. Bake in square or 
round pans in a moderate oven for forty-five 
minutes. Ice with soft icing and decorate with 
halves of nuts. 

CUP SUNSHINE CAKES 
Beat the whites of eleven eggs until they 
are fairly stiff; then add a level teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar and beat until fine and dry. Add 
the yolks of four eggs beaten to a froth ; sift one 
cupful and a half of granulated sugar, add to the 
whites carefully, and add a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. When thoroughly mixed fold in gently 
one cupful of flour that has been sifted four or 
five times. Turn into greased custard-cups and 
bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 
When these cakes are cold they should be iced 
with orange icing. 



My Best 250 Recipes 155 

GRANDMOTHER'S ENGLISH PLUM CAKE 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream; add 
gradually one pound of granulated sugar, and 
when very light add four eggs well beaten. Dis- 
solve a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in two 
tablespoonfuls of warm water, add it to one cup- 
ful of molasses, and then add the molasses to the 
butter, sugar and eggs. Stir in half a pint of 
lukewarm, strong, black cofifee, three cupfuls of 
flour, a level teaspoonful of allspice, half a tea- 
spoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon and one nutmeg, grated. Beat thoroughly. 
Mix half a pound of shredded citron, two pounds 
of stoned raisins and one pound of currants; 
flour them with a cupful of pastry flour, stir 
them in carefully, and finally bake in fruit cake- 
pans in a slow oven for two hours and a half. 



INDEX 





TAGE 




rAGE 


Alaska Bake 


93 


Bread Sticks 


134 


Almond Custard 


76 


Twentieth Century 


133 


Apple Dowdy 


78 


Wafer, to serve with 


Sauce 


49 


Salads 


142 


Asparagus Salad 


63 


Sauce for Game 


47 






Breakfast Fruit Gems 


140 


Baked Bluefish 


26 


Broiled Tomatoes 


99 


Goose 


131 


Venison Steaks 


123 


Sweetbreads 


34 


Brown Fricassee, A 


126 


Turkey 


131 


Butter, Nun's 


61 


Bean Roll 


103 






Beamaise Sauce 


45 


Cabbage, Scalloped 


113 


Bechamel Sauce 


49 


Cafe Parfait 


92 


Beef a la Mode 


86 


Cake, Dutch Apple 


74 


Chilli Con-Cane 


32 


Dried Fruit 


163 


Collared 


85 


Grandmother's Eng- 


Olives 


29 


lish Plum 


155 


Pats 


108 


Hickory-Nut 


153 


Waveriy Collared 


33 


Cakes, Cup Sunshine 


154 


Bengal Curry 


127 


Calf's Liver, brazed 


31 


Bennet's Sauce for Poultry 60 


Candied Cherries 


66 


Birds, panned 


124 


Candy, Mexican Sugar 


148 


small 


124 


Canned Peaches 


70 


Biscuits, Tea, Potato 


138 


Cannelon, Egyptian 


36 


Virginia 


142 


Cannelons 


76 


Bisque of Rice 


13 


Caramels, Chocolate 


148 


Blanquette of Mutton 


39 


Carrot Salad 


64 


Blind Hare 


81 


Cauliflower Salad 


63 


Bluefish, baked 


26 


Celery Bisque 


8 


Boiled Tomatoes 


99 


Cheese 


115 


Bouchees, Oatmeal 


74 


Cherries, Candied 


66 


Braized Calf's Liver 


31 


Chicken a la Creme 


105 


Bread Croquettes 


114 


Croquettes 


129 


Egg 


141 


en Casserole 


130 


Gluten 


143 


in Rice Casserole 


118 


Graham 


134 


Marbled 


81 


Muffins 


114 


Pressed 


82 


Oatmeal Brown 


143 


Souffle 


ISO 


Puddings 


114 


Timbales 


128 


Pulled 


137 


Chicory Salad 


62 



158 



Index 





PAGE 




FACE 


Chilli Con-Cane, Beef 


33 


Croquettes 


118 


Sauce 


44 


Bread 


114 


Chipped Beef, Creamed 


29 


Chicken 


129 


Chips, Quince 


69 


Potato 


112 


Chopped Steak 


33 


Rice 


116 


Chops, French, with Mush- 


Crown Roast 


35 


rooms 


35 


Cucumber Sauce for Fish 


47 


Masked 


32 


Curry, Bengal 


127 


Chocolate Caramels 


148 


Custard, Almond 


75 


Creams 


149 


Cup, Peach 


104 


Sauce 


51 


Sunshine Cakes 


154 


Chowder, Fish 


21 






Christmas Fruit Pudding 


150 


Dessert, My Favorite 


79 


Pudding, Plain 


162 


Desserts, Peach 


103 


Codfish Balls and Codfish 


Deviled Eggs 


86 


SoufHe 


22 


Oysters 


18 


Creamed 


17 


Donnybrook Cream 


91 


Salt, with Macaroni 19 


Drawn Butter, English 


43 


Collared Beef 


85 


Dressing, French 


60 


Compote of Peaches 


117 


Italian 


60 


Consomme a la Colbert 


7 


Dried Beef, Fricassee of 


105 


a la Royale 


7 


Fruit Cake 


153 


with Macaroni 


7 


Duck a la Bordelaise 


106 


Corn Creole 


101 


Mock 


39 


Pudding 67-102 


Ducks, Wild 


122 


Puils 


101 


Dumplings, Peach 


104 


Crabapple Jelly 


71 


Dutch Apple Cake 


74 


Cranberry Sauce 


48 






Cream Apple Pudding 


77 


East Indian Curry Soup 


10 


of Corn Soup 


9 


Egg Bread 


141 


Donnybrook 


91 


Rolls 


139 


of Horseradish Sauce 46 


Soup 


10 


Spinach Soup 


13 


Eggs, Deviled 


86 


Tomato Sauce for 




Egyptian Cannelon 


36 


Fried Chicken 


48 


Tomatoes 


100 


Creamed Chipped Beef 


29 


English Drawn Butter 


43 


Codfish 


17 


Walnut Creams 


147 


Fish 


120 


Plum Pudding 


150 


Fruits 


146 






Hashed Potatoes 


111 


Fifteen-Minute Soup 


11 


Sweetbreads 


34 


Fillet, Mock 


30 


Creams, Chocolate 


149 


Fillets of Fish 


19 


English Walnut 


147 


Fish a la Creme 


27 


Creole Corn 


101 


Creamed 


120 


Stew, A 


127 


Chowder 


21 



Index 



159 





PASB 


Fish, Hawaiian Style 


25 


Hungarian 


83 


Pickled 


84 


Planked 


18 


Potted 


83 


Timbale 


83 



and Meat in the Chaf- 
ing Dish 105 
Fishballs, Jerusalem 22 
Fondant, The Way to Make 

and Use 146 

French Dressing 60 

Tomato Sauce 49 

Chops with Mush- 
rooms 35 
Fresh Peas Pudding 102 
Fricandeau of Veal 38 
Fricassee, Brown 126 
of Dried Beef 105 
of Oysters 80 
Friceo 37 
Frozen Peaches with Cream 91 
Strawberries 93 
Fruit Gelatine 78 
Gems, Breakfast 140 
Pudding, Christmas 150 
Fruits, Creamed 146 

Gelatine, Fruit 78 
German Brown Broth 12 
Consomme 7 
Nut Horns or Cres- 
cents 136 
Gluten Bread 143 
Golden Loaf 135 
Sauce 52 
Goose, Baked 131 
Gooseberry Jam 68 
Graham Bread 134 
Grandmother's English Plum 

Cake 155 

Soup 8 

Grape Sauce 92 

Sherbet 94 

Gumbo, Oyster 25 



PAGB 

Halibut a la Flamande 24 

Hare, Blind 81 
Hashed Brown Potatoes 66-112 

Hickory-nut Cake 153 

Honey, Orange 69 
How Clear Soup Should be 

Made 5 
How to do with Little Cook- 
ing 98 
Hungarian Fish 83 

Ice Cream, Orange 90 
Philadelphia 

Vanilla 89 

Plain Vanilla 90 

Strawberry 90 

Italian Dressing 60 

Jam, Gooseberry 68 

Jelly, Crabapple 71 

Jerusalem Fishballs 22 

Left-over Meats 117 

Vegetables 116 

Lentil Soup 12 

Lemon Rice 117 

Lettuce Salad 61 

Liquid Pudding Sauce 50 

Lobster a la Newburg 106 

Mackerel, Salt 17 

Marbled Chicken 81 

Marlborough Pudding 161 

Marmalade, Orange 68 

Masked Chops 32 

Mayonnaise Sauce 45 

Meats that are Left Over 117 

Mexican Sugar Candy 148 

Mock Duck 39 

Fillet 30 

Oyster Soup 8 

Pate de Foies Gras 84 

Terrapin 119 

Muffins, Bread 114 

Mutton Balls S8 



i6o 



Index 



PAGE 

Mutton, Blanquette of 39 

Breast of, Stuffed 40 

Venison Style 107 

My Favorite Dessert 79 

Salad 61 

Spaghetti 54 

Nun's Butter 51 

Nut Horns or Crescents, 
German 136 



Oatmeal Bouchees 


74 


Brown Bread 


143 


Waffles 


141 


Old Maids 


134 


Olives, Beef 


29 


Opossum 


185 


Orange Honey 


69 



Ice Cream 90 

Marmalade 68 

Water Ice 94 

Our Cooking School Sauce 51 

Oysters, Deviled 18 

Fricassee of 20 

Gumbo 25 

Stew 24 

Pan Pudding 75 

Panned Birds 124 

Tomatoes 100 

Panocha 148 

Pate de Foies Gras, Mock 84 

Peach Cup 104 

Desserts 103 

Dumplings 104 

Leather 67 

Shortcake 103 

Peaches, Canned 70 

Compote of 117 

with Cream, Frozen 91 

Peanut Soup 15 

Peppermint Drops 147 

Philadelphia Vanilla Ice 

Cream 89 

Pickled Fish 84 



PAGE 

Pie, Simple Game 122 

Pigeons, Potted 123 

Pineapple Water Ice 94 
Plain Christmas Pudding, A 152 

Vanilla Ice Cream 90 

Planked Fish 18 

Plum Pudding, English 150 

Pocketbook Rolls 136 

Pop-overs 141 

Potato au Gratin 111 

Croquettes 112 

and Fish Timbale 26 

Puff 111 

Tea Biscuits 138 
Potatoes, Hashed Brown 66-112 

Hashed Creamed 111 

Stuffed 55 

Potted Fish 83 

Pigeons 123 

Preserved Strawberries 66 

Pressed Chicken 82 
Prune Souffle 77-115 

Pudding, Bread 114 
Corn 57-102 

Cream Apple 77 

Christmas Fruit 150 

Christmas, Plain 158 

English Plum 150 

Fresh Peas 102 

Marlborough 151 

Pan 75 

Queen Mab 152 

Puffs, Corn 101 

Pulled Bread 187 

Puree of Chestnuts 14 



Queen Mab Pudding 


162 


Quince Chips 


«» 


Kabbit Soup 


11 


Raspberry Vinegar 


70 


Water Ice 


96 


Rice Croquettes 


118 


Lemon 


117 


to Cook 


64 



Index 



i6i 





PAGB 


Roast, Crown 


35 


Rolls, Egg 


139 


Pocketbook 


136 



Salad, A Simple Russian 64 

Asparagus 63 

Carrot 64 

Cauliflower 63 

Chicory 62 

Lettuce 61 

My Favorite 61 

String Bean 63 

Woods 64 

Salt Codfish with Macaroni 19 

Mackerel 17 

Sauce, Apple 49 

Bechamel 49 

Bennet's, for Poultry 50 

Bearnaise 45 

Bread for Game 47 

Chilli 44 

Chocolate 51 

Cranberry 48 

Cream of Horseradish 46 
Cream Tomato, for 

Fried Chicken 48 

Cucumber, for Fish 47 

Golden 52 

Grape 92 

Hollandaise 44 

Liquid Pudding 60 

Mayonnaise 45 

Our Cooking School 51 

Tartar 46 

Tomato 48 

Tomato, French 49 

Vinegarette 46 

White, Milk or Cream 43 

Sauces for Puddings and Ice 

Cream 50 

Scalloped Cabbage 113 

Tomatoes 113 

Scallops a la Poulette 107 

Scones, Sweet Milk 140 



PAGB 

Sherbet, Grape 94 
Shortcake, Peach 1 03 
Simple Game Pie, A 122 
Russian Salad 64 
Small Birds 124 
Smelts, to fry 20 
Souffle, Chicken 130 
Codfish 23 
Prune 77-115 
Soup, Bisque of Rice 13 
Celery Bisque 3 
Consomme a la Col- 
bert 7 
Consomme a la Royale 7 
Consomme with Mac- 
aroni 7 
Cream of Corn 9 
Cream of Spinach 13 
East Indian Curry 10 
Egg 10 
German Brown Broth 12 
Consomme 7 
Grandmother's 8 
Julienne 7 
Lentil 12 
Mock Oyster 8 
Peanut 15 
Puree of Chestnut 14 
Vegetable Puree 9 
Spaghetti, My Favorite 54 
Spinach 58 
Squash, Summer 55 
Steak a la Bordelaise 36 
Chopped 33 
Stew, A Creole 127 
Oyster 24 
Stewed Turnips 57 
Strawberries, Frozen 93 
Preserved 66 
Strawberry Ice Cream 90 
String Bean Salad 63 
Sugar Candy, Mexican 148 
Sultana Roll 93 
Summer Squash 55 
Vegetable Dishes 99 



I 62 



Index 





PAGE 


Stuffed Breast of Mutton 


40 


Potatoes 


55 


Tomatoes 


56 


Sweetbreads, Baked 


31 


and Canned 




Mushrooms 


105 


Creamed 


34 


Sweet Milk Scones 


140 


Tartar Sauce 


4C 


Terrapin, Mock 


119 


Timbale, Chicken 


128 


Fish 


23 


Potato and Fish 


26 


Tomato Sauce 


48 



Tomatoes, Boiled 99 

Broiled 99 

Egyptian 100 
French Fashion 56 

Panned 100 

Scalloped 113 

Stuffed 56 

To Cook Rice 54 

an Old Fowl 126 

Fry Smelts 20 

Turkey, Baked 131 

Turnips, Stewed 67 



rAGi 
Twentieth Century Bread 138 



Veal, Fricandeau 38 

Vegetables, Left-over 116 

X'egetable Puree 9 
Vegetarian Supper Dish, A 100 

Venison Steaks, Broiled 133 

Vinegar, Raspberry 70 

Vinegarette Sauce 46 

Virginia Biscuits 142 

Wafer Bread to Serve with 

Salads 142 

Waffles, Oatmeal 141 

Water Ice, Orange 94 

Pineapple 94 

Raspberry 95 

Waverly Collared Beef 33 

Way to make and use Fond- 
ant 146 
What to do with Left-over 

Bread 112 

White, Milk or Cream Sauce 43 
Wild Ducks 132 

Woods Salad 64 



SOME OTHER BOOKS 
Published by 

Arnold and Company 



Mrs, Rorer's 
NEW Cook Book 

A big book of 731 pages, abundantly illustrated. Its 
bigness is no criterion of its goodness. The fact that 
it is the best work of the best years of Mrs. Rorer's 
life ; that it is a complete new book telling of the things 
one needs to know about cooking, living, health, and 
the easiest and best way of housekeeping — these are 
what make for goodness, and place this book far in 
advance of any other of a like nature. 

The New Cook Book covers all departments of 
cookery. A masterly exposition of each subject is 
given, followed by recipes for the proper preparation, 
cooking and serving of the various kinds of foods. 
There are over 1500 recipes in the book. 

The illustrations are an important feature. One 
set of pictures shows the proper dressing of the table 
during a course dinner. Then there is a complete set 
showing the method of carving meats, poultry, game, 
etc.; and many others illustrating special features of 
the book. 

Large 12mo, 731 pages, profusely and beautifully 

illustrated ; bound in cloth, $2.00 net ; 

by mail, $2.20 



Mrs, Rorer^s 

Vegetable Cookery and Meat 

Substitutes 

This book has a twofold object: 

1. To show the value of vegetables in their relation to 
diet and health, how to prepare, cook and serve 
them, what to eat under certain conditions of health, 
and thus have them perform their proper work. 

2. To give to the prudent housewife a knowledge of 
combinations of foods in the shape of toothsome 
recipes to take the place of meat, or as we call 
them — Meat Substitutes. 

It goes without saying that we all know too little 
about the value of vegetables as food. We eat them 
because they are palatable, not realizing their immense 
importance as body builders. Here they are classified, 
and thus made to give us a right idea of their use. 

Then as to Meat Substitutes. It is not necessary 
to be a vegetarian to desire a change from a meat diet 
There are health reasons often demanding abstention 
from meats; or economy may be an impelling motive; 
or a desire for change and variety in the daily bill of 
fare may be warrant enough. However we look at it 
here is the wonder book to point the way to better and 
healthier living. 

There is an abundance of the choicest and most 
palatable recipes, and they are given in such a manner, 
that if the directions are followed, the results are sure. 
You cannot make mistakes. 

12mo, cloth, $1.50 net ; by mail, $1.65 



Mrs, Rorer's 

Philadelphia Cook Book 

This is the standard book of Mrs. Rorer's that has 
been before the public for a number of years. It has 
no connection with Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book. 
Each book is independent of the other, and the posses- 
sion of one forms no reason for doing without the 
other. 

The Philadelphia Cook Book is full of good things, 
and, like all of Mrs. Rorer's works, is eminently prac- 
tical. It is a standard of excellence, in that it is 
full of the brightest things in cookery; the recipes 
are absolutely rehable, and the general instructions 
to housekeepers of the most helpful and necessary 
character. 

Nearly all cook books assume some knowledge and 
experience on the part of those who use them, but Mrs. 
Rorer makes her explanations so clear, and gives such 
definite directions, as to quantities, that the beginner 
has no difficulty in successfully accomplishing all the 
book calls for. Then there are frequent hints as to 
the proper use of left-overs, how to market, and, in 
many ways, information is given that is alike useful to 
the experienced cook as to the tyro in matters culinary. 

The book is full of choice recipes, every one of 
which has been successfully tested by Mrs. Rorer and 
found to come out right. This alone is of incalculable 
benefit and ought to commend the book to the favorable 
consideration of every housekeeper. 

The use of this book in the home means better 
health, better living, economy in the use of food, and 
a consequent saving in dollars and cents. 

12mo, nearly 600 pages, with portrait of author; 
bound in cloth, $1.00 net; by mail, $1.15 



Mrs. Rorer's 

Ice Creamsj Water Ices 

Frozen Puddings, etc. 

Together with 

Refreshments 
for all Social Affairs 

The above title is very suggestive and alluring. The 
book itself is a storehouse of the best and finest things 
that can be invented to satisfy the appetite. It is a 
great boon to housewives everywhere. To have at 
their command the knowledge and facilities for making 
all kinds of Frozen Sweets at a small fraction of the 
cost of buying such things is a great satisfaction. 

Philadelphia Ice Creams are noted the world over 
for their wonderful quality, their smoothness and rich- 
ness. And nowhere else can you get them. Even 
Paris bows to the Quaker City. Well, here are the 
famous Philadelphia Ice Creams at your service. 

Then there are Neapolitan Ice Creams, Ice Creams 
from Condensed Milk, Frozen Puddings and Desserts, 
Water Ices, Sorbets, Sherbets, Frozen Fruits, Frappe, 
Parfait, Mousse, and Sauces for Ice Creams. 

The Department of Refreshments for Social Affairs 
is just what is wanted day by day. There are delight- 
ful ways of preparing famous dishes for g^uest occa- 
sions. Wonderful methods for Sweetbreads, Shell Fish 
Dishes, Poultry and Game, Soups, Cold Dishes, Salads, 
Sandwiches and Suggestions for Church Suppers. 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail 80 cents 



Mrs. Rover's 
Canning and Preserving 

The only book on the subject worth the name. In 
it Mrs. Rorer discusses at length the canning and pre- 
serving of fruits and vegetables, with the kindred 
subjects of marmalades, butters, fruit jellies and syrups, 
drying and pickling. The recipes are clearly and simply 
given. In the new edition now presented, the author 
has brought the book up to date, and has included 
many new, rare and original recipes that have been 
accumulating since the book was first introduced. It 
has always been a favorite book with the public, and 
now it will be doubly welcome. 

JVWio EdUioni rmoitmd and rewritten, ivilh 
the addition of natch new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 

Mrs. Rorer's 
My Best 250 Recipes 

It would be strange indeed if, out of the multitude 
of recipes Mrs. Rorer has invented and used during 
her long career as a teacher, writer and lecturer, she 
did not have some that appealed to her more strongly 
than others. She has gathered these together, classi- 
fying them under their different heads. There are Best 
20 Soups; Best 20 Fish Recipes; Best 20 Meats; Best 
20 Salads; Best 20 Desserts; Best 20 Sauces, Vegeta- 
bles, Fruit Preserves, Luncheon Dishes, Ices, Summer 
Recipes, Left Overs, Game and Poultry, Brebds and 
Biscuits, etc. 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's New Salads 

For Dinners, Luncheons, Suppers and Receptions. 
With a group of Odd Salads and some Ceylon Salads. 

A salad made from a succulent green vegetable and 
French dressing, should be seen on the dinner table 
in every well-regulated household three hundred and 
sixty-five times a year. These green vegetables contain 
the salts necessary to the well being of our blood ; the 
oil is an easily-digested form of fatty matter ; the lemon 
juice gives us sufficient acid; therefore simple salads 
are exceedingly wholesome. 

During the summer, the dinner salad may be com- 
posed of any well-cooked green vegetable, served with 
a French dressing; string beans, cauliflower, a mixture 
of peas, turnips, carrots and new beets, boiled radishes, 
cucumbers, tomatoes, uncooked cabbage, and cooked 
spinach. In the winter serve celery, lettuce, endive and 
chicory. 

New Edition : reviaed and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's Dainties 

Possibly no part of the daily bill of fare so taxes 
the ingenuity of the housewife as the dessert, that final 
touch to the meal that lingers in the palate like a bene- 
diction. We tire of constant repetitions of familiar 
things. We want variety. Why not have it when 
there are so many ways and means of gratifying our 
tastes. Mrs. Rorer has given here a number of choice 
things covering quite a range of possibilities. 

New Edition: revited and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



