The  original  of  tiiis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089523355 


^M^'^^^   <!<^ 


Our  Sisters' 


-Compiled  in- 


Pittsburgln,    Penna. 


CONTRIBUTED  BY  MANY 

KIND  HEARTS 

AND     IN     A     WORTHY     CAUSE 


pj 


Copyright,  1909  by  ^ettiS  M.   KAtJPBtAN 
Pittsburg,   Pa. 


Publislied  by  J.  A.  Pbklbt 
Thb  Hbndbrson  Prbss,  Printers,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 


OUR  SISTERS  RECIPES 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Appetizers,                          -  1 

Soups   and    Garnishings  7 

Fish   and  Sea  Foods  -                                17 

Entrees,              -  -                           29 

Meats,                                                 -  .             -            -        37 

To   Serve   with   Meats  and    Poultry,  47 

Poultry,      -                                     -  -                                53 

Vegetables,       -  59 

Salads,  73 

Puddings,    Pies   and   Pastry,              -  87 

Desserts                   -                        -  .115 

Cakes,    Large  and  Small,  131 

Creams  and  Ices,  -                  167 

Breads,         -            -            -  1*^5 

Pickles  and  Preserves,                     -  -                         185 

Beverages,              -            -  -                  1^'^ 
Supper  Dishes, 


203 


Candies,  -  -  ■  -     219 


CHEESE  CANAPE. 

Cut  rounds  of  white  bread ;  toast  same  and  dip  in  hot  but- 
ter ;  cover  with  grated  cheese ;  season  with  paprika  and  mus- 
tard, and  brown  in  the  oven.    To  be  served  hot. 

— Mrs.  J.  Sartorius,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

CHEESE  RELISH. 

Salad  dressing: 

1  cup  chopped  celery;  J4  lb.  McLaren's  Imperial  cheese; 
Yz  cup  chopped  olives;  2  tablespoons  chopped  sour  pickles. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  green  peppers; 

Mix  the  cheese  with  enough  salad  dressing  to  make  it 
smooth  and  soft  enough  to  spread.  Add  the  other  ingredients 
each  separately.    Season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne. 

— Chicago. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

3  oranges  (cut  and  drained) ; 

1   pt.  pineapple   (canned  or   fresh,  drained); 

1  tb.  Malaga  grapes  (cut  in  halves   and  seeds  removed); 

1  !b.  English  walnuts  (in  shell); 

Over  which  pour  the  following  dressing: 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  (beaten);  2  tablespoons  water; 

4  tablespoons  sugar;  Large  piece  butter; 

4  tablespoons  vinegar;  V2  pt.  cream  (whipped. 

Cook  until  thick;  remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  the  butter. 
When  cold  and  ready  to  poiir  over  fruit,  stir  in  cream.  Pour  over 
fruit  one-half  hour  or  more  before  serving. 

1 


FRENCH  SANDWICHES. 

1  cup  chopped  white  meat  of  chicken ;  3  olives,  chopped ; 
1  tablespoon  capers.  To  the  above  add  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

— Mrs.  E.  M.Lazarus. 

FRUIT  APPETIZER. 

Cut  heart-shaped  slices  of  pineapple.  Ij4  inches  thick; 
slice  grapefruit  like  an  orange  and  lay  one  piece  on  each  lobe 
of  pineapple  heart.  Cover  this  with  a  slice  of  orange,  and 
down  the  center  of  the  heart  place  Marachino  cherries  which 
have  been  cut  into  three  parts,  thus  forming  a  butterfly. 
Sugar  fruit  in  the  morning  and  add  Marachino.  Serve  very 
cold.  This  can  be  beautified  by  sprays  of  maidenhair  fern,  as 
per  illustration. 

— Mrs.  Gus.  Kaufman,  N.  Y. 


NEUCHATEL  SANDWICHES. 

1  Neuchatel  cheese  or  cream  cheese; 
1  tablespoon  butter; 

1  cup  ground  walnuts;  Cayenne  pepper; 

2  teaspoons  sherry;  Salt  to  taste. 

Mix  cheese  with  butter  or  a  little  cream;  add  other  in- 
gredients and  spread  as  a  canape  on  sandwich  on  rounds  of 
bread. 

—Mrs.  F.  G.  L. 
2 


CHICKEN  LIVER  SANDWICHES. 

These  sandwiches  are  made  of  boiled  chicken  livers, 
smoothly  mashed,  and  mixed  with  chopped  olives  and  mayon- 
naise, and  spread  in  the  usual  manner. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 


GARNIETER  LIPTANER. 
(Viennese  Sandwich.) 

Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  the  following : 

%  tfo.  Appetitseln;  1  tablespoon  capers; 

2  tablespoons  sweet  butter;  Big  dash  paprika. 

1  Philadelphia  cream  cheese; 

Spread  this  on  thinly-cut  bread,  with  a  lettuce  leaf  be- 
tween 

— Mrs.  I.  Rothstein. 


THREE  FILLINGS  FOR  SANDWICHES. 

No.  1. — Place  a  lettuce  leaf  on  a  slice  of  buttered  bread 
and  sprinkle  with  grated  store  cheese.  Cover  with  another 
piece  of  buttered  bread  and  cut  into  any  desired  shape. 

No.  2. — Mix  an  equal  amount  of  chopped  English  walnuts 
and  olives  and  for  every  half  cupful  of  the  mixture  put  in  two 
tablespoons  mayonnaise. 

No.  3. — Two  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  and  mixed  with  two 
tablespoons  mayonnaise  spread  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 
No.  1. 

1  pt.  small  oysters;  3  tablespoons  vinegar; 

1  lemon  (juice);  Pinch  salt; 

%  teaspoon  Liebig's  beef  extract,  dissolved  in  1  cup  water; 
1  cup  catsup;  Worcestershire  to  taste. 

Cover  oysters  with  sauce,  surrounding  glass  with  ice. 

—Mrs.  Max  Rothchild. 
3 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL 
No.  2. 

Yi  pt.  catsup;  1  tablespoon  sherry; 

Yi  teaspoon  horseradish;  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice; 

1  tablespoon  Worcester;  J4  teaspoon  beef  extract. 
4  drops  tabasco; 

Mix  above  ingredients,  dissolving  extract  with  a  very  lit- 
tle hot  water.  Drain  and  chill  oysters  in  glasses  and  add  sauce 
just  before  serving. 

— Mrs.  J.  S.  Kaufman. 


PREPARED  CHEESE. 

1  generous  slice  Roquefort  cheese;  Yi  teaspoon  paprika; 

Y2  cream  cheese;  1  teaspoon  chopped  chives; 

1  piece  sweet  butter;  Y^  glass  sherry. 

8  drops  tabasco  sauce; 

Mix  well.    Will  make  enough  for  7  or  8  persons. 

'  — Mrs.  Enoch  Rauh. 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


oyp5^ 


BARAMOOR  SOUP. 

1  qt.  chicken  broth;  }4  tablespoon  flour; 

1  cup  cream;  2  slices  bread. 

3  bay  leaves; 

Cut  two  slices  of  bread  into  bits  one-half  in.  square ;  brown 
in  oven,  or  fry  until  crisp ;  put  a  few  with  small  pieces  of 
chicken  into  plates  and  pour  hot  soup  over.    Serve  at  once. 


BOUILLON. 

1  soup  bone;  J4  can  tomatoes; 

1  ox-tail;  3  ripe  tomatoes; 

Knuckle  of  veal;  Salt; 

10  whole  pepper  corns;  Celery  root; 

1  whole  onion;  Parsley. 

5  whole  carrots; 

If  possible,  cook  day  before  using,  allowing  time  to  settle, 
and  the  grease  to  rise.  Serve  in  cups.  A  fine,  clear  soup, 
enough  to  serve  10  or  12  people. 


CAULIFLOWER  SOUP. 

2  cups  cauliflower;  1  chicken; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  2  cups  milk. 

1  onion; 

Boil  cauliflower,  picked  into  small  pieces,  in  salt  water, 
one-half  hour;  put  that  in  three  pints  chicken  broth  in  which  an 
onion  has  been  minced  and  cooked;  add  boiled  milk;  sea- 
son with  pepper;  add  little  flour  to  thicken;  then  one  table- 
spoon butter. 

— Daisy  H.  Levy. 
1 


CRACKER  BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

3  tablespoons  hard  goose-grease  or  butter,  rubbed  to  a 
cream;  add  2  eggs,  some  finely-chopped  parsley,  salt,  ginger 
and  nutmeg;  add  5  rolled  soda  crackers;  roll  into  balls  and 
drop  in  boiling  soup  5  minutes  before  serving. 

—Mrs.  G.  E.  Crone. 

CHICKEN  GUMBO. 

1  chicken;  Boiled  ham; 

1  qt.  okra;  Butter; 

Vegetables;  5^  can  tomatoes; 

1  tablespoon  flour;  Seasoning. 

Cut  and  wash  chicken  and  put  on  to  boil  like  soup,  with  as 
many  vegetables  as  desired.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  re- 
move and  pick  meat  from  chicken  bones,  and  to  this  add  a  few 
slices  of  ham,  cut  fine.  Fry  the  okra  in  butter  in  a  separate 
pan;  add  flour  and  brown;,  then  add  the  tomatoes;  pour 
chicken  stock  in  this  and  cook  slowly  until  it  thickens.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  with  rice. 

— Mrs.  Ph.  Hart,  New  Orleans. 

CHICKEN  SOUP  WITH  KNAEPFEN. 
Boil  a  nice  chicken,  as  for  soup,  with  salt,  pepper,  carrot, 
onion,  parsley  and  leek.  When  the  fowl  is  tender,  remove 
from  stock,  which  strain,  ready  for  the  dumplings.  Remove 
meat  from  chicken  bones,  using  only  white  meat  (unless  more 
is  required)  ;  chop  it  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a 
minced  onion  fried  golden  in  the  chicken  fat;  add  with  1 
beaten  egg  to  the  minced  chicken,  and  mix  well.  Make  a 
noodle  dough  (out  of  1  cup  flour;  2  eggs  and  1  tablespoon 
water).  Roll  and  cut  into  2-inch  squares;  in  center  of  each 
place  a  teaspoon  of  the  prepared  chicken;  fold  over  in  shape 
of  triangles,  pinching  edges  firmly  together,  and  boil  in  the 
prepared  chicken  stock  (with  lid  on)  for  20  to  25  minutes. 
Serve  3  or  4  to  a  person  in  the  soup  plate. 

—Mrs.  M.  A.  Goodstone. 
8 


CLAM  CREAM  SOUP. 

1  qt.  clams;  1  qt.  milk; 

1  onion;  3  tablespoons  flour; 

1  stalk  celery;  ^  pt.  cream; 

3  tablespoons  butter;  Pepper  and  salt. 

Mix  butter  and  flour  well,  and  add  boiling  milk.  Boil  cel- 
ery and  onion  in  the  clam  liquor ;  strain  into  the  milk,  flour  and 
butter ;  season ;  add  cream  and  chopped  clams.  Boil  up  to- 
gether. 


CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SOUP. 

2  qts.  spinach;  1  pt.  cream; 

Some  good  soup  stock;  Cornstarch  to  thicken. 

Cook  spinach  and  mash  through  coUander.     Add  to  soup 
and  boil ;  add  cream,  cornstarch,  and  season  to  taste. 

— New  York. 


CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 

1  pt.  water;  8  whole  cloves; 

1  qt.  canned  tomatoes;  H  onion; 

1  teaspoon  sugar;  Parsley; 

Boil  15  or  20  minutes,  add  1  teaspoon  soda  and  in  a  few 
minutes  strain. 

1  qt.  milk;  Cayenne; 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch;  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Salt; 

Thicken  the  milk  with  cornstarch;  add  the  salt,  cayenne  and 
butter,  add  to  tomatoes,  allowing  the  whole  to  become  thor- 
oughly heated. 


CROUTONS. 

Butter  slices  of  stale  bread;  cut  into  1-inch  squares,  and 
brown  lightly  in  a  quick  oven.    Serve  with  soup. 

9 


CUSTARD  ROYAL  FOR  SOUP. 

3  eggs;  Vz  nutmeg; 

J4  teaspoon  salt;  1  cup  broth. 

Beat  eggs  light ;  grate  the  nutmeg  and  add  with  salt  and 
cup  of  broth.  Pour  into  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  the  oven 
until  firm,  like  custard.  When  cold,  cut  into  any  shape  de- 
sired; place  in  dish  and  pour  soup  over. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 

FRUIT  SOUP. 

(8  persons.) 

1  qt.  huckleberries  or  cherries;,       Some  sugar; 

Stick  cinnamon;  1  lemon; 

3  cloves;  Little  cornstarch  or  sago. 

Boil  one  quart  huckleberries  or  cherries  until  all  fruit  is 
crushed.  Add  (while  boiling)  one  stick  cinnamon,  three  cloves 
and  some  sugar,  according  to  taste,  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Then  strain  and  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch  or  sago. 

— Mrs.  Theo.  Kaufman. 

MACAROONS  FOR  SOUP. 

J4  cup  cracker  meal;  Little  nutmeg; 

3  yolks  of  eggs;  Pinch  salt; 

J4  cup  grated  almonds;  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.    Drop 

into  boiling  fat  with  a  teaspoon,  making  the  size  according  to 

taste. 

—Mrs.  G.  E.  Crone. 

MARROW  BALLS. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  marrow;  Few  sprays  finely-chopped  parsley; 

1  egg;  3  tablespoons  grated  bread  crumbs. 

Little  salt; 

Stir  marrow  to  a  cream;  add  yolk  of  egg,  and  salt  and 
parsley;  mix  together,  and  add  three  tablespoons  bread 
crumbs ;  last,  white  of  %%%.  Make  small  balls ;  boil  in  soup  six 
minutes.    This  makes  45  balls. 

— Mrs.  Louis  Schwarz. 
10 


MAUL  TASCHEN. 

A  little  salt  and  pepper;  1  lb.  beef,  cooked  and  chopped  fine; 

1  egg;  Y-i  piece  bread,  crumbed  in.i 

Few  sprays  of  finely  chopped  parsley; 

Make  a  noodle  dough ;  roll  out  thin,  lay  a  teaspoonful  in 
heaps  on  the  dough;  lap  the  dough  over  the  heaps;  cut  out 
round  with  a  pie  cutter    Boil  in  soup  six  minutes 

— Mrs.  Louis  Schwarz. 


MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

Mushrooms;  2  tablespoons  flour; 

1  onion;  Cream; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  Seasoning; 
Parsley;  Chicken  consomme. 

If  dried  mushrooms  are  used,  boil  soft,  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Brown  the  flour  golden  in  the  butter ;  add  grated  onion, 
some  parsley;  fill  out  with  chicken  consomme;  add  a  little 
cream,  salt  and  pepper. 

—Mrs.  J.  Black. 


TOMATO  PUREE. 

1  qt.  tomatoes;  1  small  onion; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  1  tablespoon  sugar; 

1  qt.  water;  1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

Melt  butter  in  frying  pan  and  cook  chopped  onion  until 
tender  in  it.  Dissolve  sugar  and  cornstarch  in  a  little  of  tomato. 
Add  a  few  cloves  and  cook  one-half  hour  and  strain. 


VEAL  BOUILLON. 

1  tb.  sugar;  1J4  cups  water; 

6  lemons;  1  pt.  veal  stock. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  five  minutes ;  strain  and  skim ;  add 
the  juice  of  lemons  and  the  pint  of  veal  stock.  Freeze  like  a 
frappe.    This  is  used  in  place  of  the  iced  bouillon. 

— New  York. 
11 


TOMATO  BISQUE. 

1  can  tomatoes;  1  teaspoon  butter; 

Yi  onion;  1  qt.  milk; 

1  tablespoon  flour;  1  tablespoon  flour; 

54  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  butter; 

Pepper;  Croutons. 

Cook  tomatoes  with  onion  until  soft;  strain,  place  on 
stove  and  thicken  with  flour  (dissolved  in  a  little  water),  and 
put  in  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Place  milk  on  stove,  and  when 
it  boils  thicken  with  flour,  same  as  tomatoes,  and  put  in  butter. 
When  ready  to  serve,  have  a  large  cup  of  croutons  (either 
toasted  or  fried)  in  soup  tureen.  Put  in  milk  and  pour  toma- 
toes in  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time.  See  that  it  is  sufficiently 
seasoned  before  serving. 

— L.  M.,  New  York. 

SOUP  STOCK. 

1  shin  of  beef;  2  bay  leaves; 

5  qts.  cold  water;  1  sprig  parsley; 

1  onion;  12  cloves; 

1  carrot;  1  stalk  celery; 

1  turnip;  1  tablespoon  salt. 

Lean,  uncooked,  juicy  beef  should  form  the  basis  of 
your  soup.  Wipe  the  meat  well  with  a  damp  towel;  now 
cut  all  the  meat  from  the  bones;  place  the  bones  in  the 
bottom  of  a  large  kettle ;  lay  the  meat  on  top  of  them ;  add  the 
water  and  stand  the  kettle  on  the  back  part  of  the  range  for  an 
hour;  then  place  it  over  a  good  fire.  After  about  30  minutes 
the  scum  of  the  meat  will  gather  on  the  surface,  and  the  water 
will  begin  to  steam.  Now  place  it  over  a  more  moderate  fire, 
add  1  cup  cold  water,  and  skim  oflf  the  scum.  Now  cover  the 
kettle  closely  and  let  it  simmer  (not  boil)  for  4  hours;  then 
add  the  vegetables  and  simmer  1  hour  longer.  Then  strain  the 
stock  through  a  fine  sieve ;  add  the  salt  and  stand  at  once  in  a 
cold  place  to  cool.  If  you  keep  it  in  a  warm  place  it  will  not 
make  a  nice  jelly.  When  cold,  take  all  the  grease  from  the 
surface,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Fink. 
12 


TOMATO  BOUILLON. 

1  can  tomatoes;  54  teaspoon  beef  extract; 

1  sliced  onion;  1  teaspoon  salt; 

1  pt.  water;  Whites  of  2  eggs; 

1  bay  leaf;  Little  pepper. 

Boil  rapidly  for  five  minutes  all  of  the  ingredients,  except- 
ing  extract   and   eggs,   and   press   through   a   coUander.      Add 

1  pt.  boiling  water,  the  beef  extract  and  slightly  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  Return  to  fire  and  boil  5  minutes  more ;  then  strain 
through  double  cheese  cloth,  and  you  have  1  qt.  clear,  strong 
soup.    Serve  with  bread  fingers. 

POTATO  BREAD  FOR  SOUP. 

4  large  potatoes,  boiled  the  day  before  using; 

2  heaping  tablespoons  fat;  Salt; 

4  eggs;  Grated  nutmeg,  sufficient  to  flavor. 

Stir  the  fat  to  cream ;  add  the  yolks  of  eggs ;  then  the 
grated  potatoes.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
stir  lightly  with  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  flat  pan.  When  cold, 
cut  in  squares  or  cubes.  Place  in  tureen  and  pour  over  it  the 
hot  soup,  and  serve. 

— Lina  Rosenbach. 


WINE  SOUP. 

(For  8  Persons.) 

1  pt.  wine;  4  eggs; 

1  qt.  water;  Few  almonds; 
Stick  cinnamon;  Some  sugar. 

2  lemons; 

Boil  one  pint  wine  and  one  quart  water  for  a  few  minutes. 

Add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  then  thicken  with  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs.  Frost  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  mix  it  with  a  few 
sweet  almonds,  and  put  this  in  the  soup  on  a  tablespoon,  just 
as  you  would  dumplings,  while  the  soup  is  boiling.  Then  put 
on  ice  to  cool.    Add  sugar  according  to  taste. 

— Mrs.  Theo.  Kaufman. 
13 


VEGETABLE  SOUP— FOR  A  BUSY  DAY. 

Cover  a  knuckle  of  veal  or  beef  with  plenty  of  cold  water. 
Let  simmer  slowly  for  4  hours.  Skim  occasionally.  Remove 
from  fire  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  When  cold  skim  off  any  fat. 
Add  salt  and  1  can  Campbell's  vegetable  soup.  This  will  make 
5  large  dishes. 

— Mrs.  A.  E.  McLeod. 


14 


MEMORANDUM 


15 


MEMORANDUM 


16 


ANCHOVY  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  1  tablespoon  flour; 

1  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  anchovy  paste. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  then  the  cup  of  milk.  Boil  all 
together,  adding  the  anchovy  paste  last.  Stir  till  thick  and 
smooth,  and  serve  with  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

BAKED  SHAD. 

Shad;  Salt; 

1  cup  bread  crumbs;  Pepper; 

1  tablespoon  parsley;  Butter  (melted). 

Clean  and  season  fish,  making  dressing  of  one  cup  stale 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  parsley,  salt  pepper  and  melted  butter ; 
stuff  fish  and  sew  shut.  Then  score  one  side  of  fish  about  two 
inches  apart,  and  put  slices  of  salt  pork  in  each  gash ;  put  slices 
on  bottom  or  dripper,  placing  fish  on  this ;  sprinkle  freely  with 
salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Bake  in  warm  oven  fifteen  minutes  to 
every  pound  of  fish.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  olives,  po- 
tato balls  and  parsley. 

BAKED  FISH  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  Little  chopped  onion; 

J4  can  tomatoes;  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire; 

1  tablespoon  flour;  Salt; 

1  egg;  Celery  salt. 

Melt  butter  and  brown  the  onion  in  it.  Stir  in  flour  and 
add  tomatoes.  Stew  slowly  until  very  soft ;  then  add  the  well- 
beaten  egg  and  seasoning.  When  your  fish  is  about  half  baked, 
pour  ofif  almost  all  the  liquor,  and  add  this  tomato  sauce ;  then 
return  to  the  oven  and  complete  baking. 

— ^Mrs.  Jacob  Sartorius,  Atlanta,  Ga. 
17 


Use  blue  fish,  mackerel,  large  trout,  shad  or  white  fish. 
Rub  the  broiler  with  suet.  A  four-pound  fish  will  take  a  half- 
hour,  over  a  moderate  fire.  When  done,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  spread  with  butter.  For  broiling,  the  fish  should 
be  split  down  the  back. 


CRAB  A  LA  CREOLE. 

Crabs  (live);  1  saltspoon  sugar; 

Salt;  1  tablespoon  flour; 

1  small  onion;  1  tablespoon  tomato  cats'up; 

Pepper;  1  cup  hot  water; 

1  tablespoon  fresh  butter;  1  can  tomatoes. 

Cayenne  pepper; 

Boil  the  crabs  in  salt  water  until  they  are  red;  then  re- 
move them  from  the  fire,  carefully  pick  out  the  meat  and  set 
it  aside.  In  a  saucepan  brown  the  onion  in  the  butter;  stir  in 
the  flour,  add  the  hot  water  and  the  tomatoes;  season;  add 
the  sugar  and  catsup.  Boil  the  mixture  until  it  thickens.  Then 
add  the  crab  meat  and  let  it  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Line  a 
platter  with  slices  of  toast  bread  and  pour  the  mixture  over. 


CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

1  cup  of  the  water  in  which  fish  has  been  boiled; 
1  cup  cream;  Parsley; 

Flour;  Butter; 

1  lemon;  Capers. 

3  eggs; 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  small  bowl ;  add  a  little  of  the 
cup  of  fish  water  and  half  the  cream ;  also  juice  of  lemon.  Put 
butter  in  pan,  melt,  add  Hour  and  the  remaining  fishwater.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  stir  into  contents  of  bowl  of  eggs,  etc.  If 
too  thick,  add  more  cream.  Put  all  back  on  stove  and  stir  until 
creamy.  Stir  constantly  to  prevent  curdling.  Remove  from 
fire ;  add  chopped  parsley  and  capers.    (Very  fine.) 

— Mrs.  B.  Benswanger. 
18 


CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Take  raw  clams,  chop  fine  and  make  a  batter  with  juice 
and  equal  quantity  of  sweet  milk,  4  eggs  to  each  pint  of  liquid, 
and  flour  sufficient  to  stiffen.    Fry  like  other  fritters. 

—Mrs.  B.  P. 

FISH  CUTLET. 

1  ib.  cold  boiled  fish;  Cayenne  pepper; 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice;  1  cup  milk; 

1  saltspoon  salt;  J^  cup  flour; 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley;  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Scald  the  milk;  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  and  cook 
until  smooth.  Add  other  ingredients,  mincing  the  fish  finely. 
When  cool,  mold  into  small  cutlets,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep,  boiling  fat. 

FISH  PUDDING. 

Ij4  tbs.  fish  (cod,  salmon  or  halibut); 
4  eggs; 

2  cups  cream;  Chopped  parsley; 

6  soda  crackers;  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  fish.  When  cold,  shred  it.  Soak  soda  crackers 
and  press  them ;  mix  with  fish ;  add  eggs,  parsley  and  plenty 
of  seasoning.  Butter  mold  well;  steam  from  3  to  4  hours. 
Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

FISH  WITH  SPINACH. 

IJ^  tbs.  halibut;  1  wine  glass  sherry; 

Spinach;  Grated  American  cheese. 

Cream  sauce; 

Prepare  spinach  as  for  vegetable.    Use  cream  instead  of 

soup  stock;  add  seasoning.     Mix  well  and  boil  up  together. 

Boil  halibut,  shred  it  and  add  sufficient  cream  sauce  to  make  it 

like  creamed  fish.    Add  mustard  and  sherry.    Line  bottom  of 

pudding  dish  with  spinach;  add  the  fish,  and  cover  top  with 

thick  layer  of  grated  American  cheese.    Brown  in  hot  oven. 

—Mrs.  Sol  Kaufman,  N.  Y. 
19 


FISH  WITH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Cook  fish,  as  usual,  with  vegetables  and  seasoning.  Sauce : 

1  tablespoon  butter;  Yolks  of  S  eggs; 

2  tablespoons  flour;  1  can  mushrooms,  chopped  fine; 
2  cups  fish  sauce;                                Sauce  of  mushrooms. 

Juice  of  154  lemons; 

— E.  F.  W. 


FILLED  FISH. 

A  lake  salmon  or  pike,  weighing  4  lbs.,  should  be  well 
cleaned,  but  not  cut  open.  Run  your  finger  between  the  meat 
of  fish  and  skin,  but  leave  the  head  on,  and  draw  the  skin  off, 
leaving  the  head  attached  to  the  skin.  Take  all  meat  from 
the  bone,  and  be  careful  to  get  all  bones  out  of  meat.  Chop 
the  meat  fine  and  boil ;  then  add  one  large  slice  of  bread  which 
has  been  previously  soaked  in  water;  1  handful  blanched  al- 
monds, chopped;  some  chopped  parsley;  pepper,  ginger,  salt, 
and  a  very  small  grated  onion.  Mix  together  with  4  eggs,  atid 
refill  the  skin  of  fish.  Have  your  fish  kettle  ready,  containing 
boiling  water  in  which  you  have  put  salt,  a  dash  of  vinegar 
and  2  carrots,  cut  up.  Place  the  fish  carefully  in  the  kettle 
and  boil  about  40  minutes.  Care  must  be  used  in  lifting,  also, 
so  as  not  to  break  the  fish. 

Sauce  for  Filled  Fish. 
To  make  the  sauce,  add  1  cup  milk  and  yolks  of  3  eggs  to 
some  of  the  water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled.     Season  to 
taste,  and  serve  cold. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 

FISH  SAUCE. 

4  eggs  (yolks);  4  tablespoons  sour  cream; 

2  tablespoons  flour;  ^  lemon. 

Butter,  large  piece; 

Mix  above  ingredients;  add  as  much  as  desired  of  the 
water  that  the  fish  was  boiled  in,  and  let  boil. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Lipman. 
20 


FRIED  HALIBUT. 

Wash  and  salt  the  fish  and  place  on  ice;  then  wipe  thor- 
oughly dry ;  dip  in  flour  and  shake  off ;  then  dip  in  beaten  egg. 
For  frying,  use  olive  oil,  not  deep  enough  to  swim  the  fish, 
but  bottom  of  skillet  must  be  well  covered.  The  oil  should 
boil  thoroughly  before  fish  is  put  in.  Brown  both  sides  and 
lift  carefully  to  a  paper  that  will  absorb  the  oil.  Place  on  a 
second  heated  platter  before  serving,  and  garnish. 

— ^Mrs.  Josiah  Cohen. 


FISH  RING. 

2  ibs.  halibut  or  red  salmon;  1  teaspoon  salt; 

3  cups  water;  Paprika; 

?4  cup  vinegar;  Whole  pepper; 

1  onion;  Bay  leaves. 

1  lemon; 

Put  water  with  above  ingredients  and  boil  fifteen  min- 
utes. Add  fish  and  cook  until  tender,  then  remove  fish.  Dis- 
solve yi  box  gelatine  in  some  of  the  liquor  and  boil  down  the 
rest.  Strain  and  add  dissolved  gelatine.  Put  some  of  the 
liquor  in  a  ring  mold;  then  add  the  fish  in  small  pieces;  then 
the  remaining  liquor.  Let  stand  over  night.  Garnish  with 
olives  and  hard-boiled  eggs.  This  dish  is  very  nice  served 
with  shredded  celery  and  mayonnaise;  or,  cucumber  salad,  in 
the  center  of  the  ring. 

— Mrs.  Morris  S.  Wertheimer. 


FRIED  SMELTS. 
Make  a  slight  opening  at  the  gills;  draw  them  between 
the  thumb  and  finger,  beginning  at  the  tail.  This  will  press 
out  all  the  inside.  Dip  in  beajen  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Fry 
in  very  hot  cottolene ;  drain,  dust  with  salt,  and  serve  smoking 
hot  with  tartar  sauce.  A  person  who  has  once  fried  smelts  in 
cottolene  will  never  use  anything  else. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Fink. 
21 


FISH  WITH  CHOPPED  DRESSING. 

Fish;  Celery  and  parsley; 

1  cup  vinegar;  1  clove  of  garlic; 

1  onion;  Salt. 

To  the  above  add  suflScient  water  in  which  to  boil  the  fish. 
Sauce  as  follows : 

2  hard-boiled  eggs;  1  onion; 

2  raw  eggs;  1  bunch  parsley; 
Lump  butter;                                       Capers; 

}4  teaspoon  mustard;  Catsup; 

Salt  and  pepper;  Salad  dressing. 

4  good-sized  pickles ; 

Rub  together  the  yolks  of  raw  and  boiled  eggs,  adding 

butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  the  mustard  and  seasoning  to  taste. 

Chop  fine  the  pickles,  onion,  parsley  and  whites  of  boiled  eggs. 

Add  a  few  capers,  1  cup  of  catsup  and  1  cup  of  salad  dressing, 

and  mix  the  whole  mass  together,  to  be  served  with  the  boiled 

fish. 

KRAUTER  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

3  to  4  chopped  sardellen;  2  tablespoons  capers; 

2  salt  pickles,  chopped';  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce; 

2  hard-boiled  eggs;  3  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 

1  tablespoon  onion  juice; 

Mix  with  stiff  mayonnaise  and  let  stand  several  hours. 

— Mrs.  Gus.  Kaufman. 

SHAD  IN  JELLY. 

2  qts.  water;  1  doz.  whole  peppers; 
Salt;                                                         Parsley;. 

1  cup  vinegar;  A  few  cloves; 

3  bay  leaves;  2  onions. 

Thoroughly  clean  fish;  cut  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick, 
and  lay  in  cold  water  for  about  2  hours.  Boil  all  the  ingredients 
in  the  water  for  a  short  time,  then  add  the  fish  and  boil  for  15 
minutes  longer.  Remove  from  liquor  and  arrange  on  a  deep  plat- 
ter. Strain  the  liquor  and  thicken  with  potato  meal  or  add  gela- 
tine to  stiffen ;  pour  over  the  fish  and  let  stand  until  set.  This  is 
served  cold,  and  either  plain  or  with  vinegar  and  oil. 

—Mrs.  S.  S.  Loeb. 
22 


SALMON  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE. 

Cook  fish  (in  one  piece)  in  salt  water.  Add  a  little  vinegar, 
allspice,  bay  leaf,  onion,  carrot  and  celery.  When  tender,  re- 
move fish  and  strain  off  gravy. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Rub  to  a  cream  : 

Slice  of  butter;  Capers; 

Yolks  of  3  eggs;  Seedless  raisins; 

1  tablespoon  flour; 

Sugar  and  lemon  juice  (enough  to  make  sweet  and  sour  . 

Put  this  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick. 

Pour  over  fish,  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  slices  of 

lemon. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Dreifus. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 
No..  1. 

2  cups  chopped  lobster;  1  cup  thick  white  sauce; 
J4  teaspoon  salt;                                  Cayenne  pepper; 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice;  Nutmeg; 

1  egg  (yolk) ;  Chopped  parsley. 

Mix  ingredients  together.  When  cold,  shape,  dip  in  egg 
and  bread  crumbs  and  fry. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 
No.  2, 

4  lbs.  boiled  lobster;  Mace; 

Yi  cup  cream;  Salt; 

1  tablespoon  cottolene;  Pepper; 

1  tablespoon  flour;  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs; 

Mix  the  flour,  cottolene,   cream   and   t%%  yolk   together 

and  let  come  to  a  boiling  point,  but  on  no  account,  allow 

it  to  boil.     Add  this    and    seasoning   to    the    lobster    meat, 

and  then  place  all  on  a  dish  to  cool.    When  cold,  mold  with 

hands  into  cutlets  and  dip   first   in   egg   and   then   in   bread 

crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  cottolene  a  light  brown.    Place  a  small 

claw  in  the  end  of  each  cutlet,  and  serve  the  instant  they  come 

from  the  skillet. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Fink. 

23 


SHRIMP  SAUCE  TO  USE  WITH  FISH. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter;  Paprika; 

\yi  tablespoons  flour;  Salt; 

54  pt.  soup  stock:  Anchovy  paste. 
A  little  French  mustard; 

Add  one-half  lobster,  cut  fine,  and  some  shrimps,  and  pour 
over  boiled  fish. 

— N.  Y. 


SHAD  ROE  A  LA  POULETTE. 

1  pair  roes;  1  egg; 

1  oz.  butter;  1  gill  cream; 

1  tablespoon  vinegar;  J4  teaspoon  flour; 
Lemon  juice;  Parsley. 

Slice  lemon; 

Simmer  for  half  an  hour  the  roes  in  water  slightly  salted 
and  containing  the  vinegar  and  a  slice  of  lemon.  In  a  separate 
pan  melt  an  ounce  butter  and  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Beat 
yolk  of  egg  with  the  cream,  with  half  teaspoon  flour  rubbed 
smooth.  Whisk  this  gently  into  the  warm  butter.  Keep  quite 
warm  until  it  thickens;  (boiling  will  curdle).  Pour  over  shad 
roes  and  strew  top  with  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

—Mrs.  E.  F.  B.,  Philadelphia. 

STUFFED  LOBSTER. 

Lobster;  1  tablespoon  flour; 

l/i  can  mushrooms;  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  1  cup  sweet  cream; 

3  hard-boiled  eggs;  1  tablespoon  salt. 

Remove  lobster  meat  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  taking  care 
to  preserve  shells  in  splitting  the  boiled  lobster.  Melt  butter; 
add  flour;  cook  well,  and  before  browning,  add  cream,  mush- 
rooms (chopped  fine),  and  yolks  of  eggs,  and  bread  crumbs 
and  salt.  Add  to  this  quantity,  two  cups  lobster  meat,  and 
cook  for  five  minutes ;  then  refill  the  shells ;  cover  tops  with  the 
whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine.  Spread  with  melted 
butter,  and  bake  a  dark  brown. 

—Mrs.  A.  D.  F. 
24 


SHELL  FISH  A  LA  CREOLE. 

To  a  pint  of  crab  or  lobster  meat,  shrimps  or  scallops,  add 
1  pt.  boiled  rice  and  sufficient  rich  tomato  sauce  to  cover  all. 
Season  highly  with  cayenne,  salt  and  a  little  grated  onion.  1 
canned  tomato  soup,  undiluted,  is  an  excellent  tomato  sauce, 
and  is  always  ready.  May  be  served  in  ramekins  or  patty 
shells,  or  on  toast. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 


STEWED  CRABS. 

6  live,  hard-shelled  crabs;  3  tablespoons  canned  tomatoes; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  Salt  and  paprika  to  taste. 

1  tablespoon  flour; 

Take  crabs,  boil  and  remove  shell;  clean  thoroughly; 
cut  body  in  halves  and  crack  claws.  Put  butter  in  saucepan 
and  when  hot  add  flour ;  stir  until  yellow.  Add  tomato,  crabs, 
and  water  enough  to  cover.     Season,  and  cook  IS  minutes. 

— N.  Y. 


PLANKED    SHAD. 

This  is  the  very  best  way  of  cooking  shad:  The  plank 
should  be  3  inches  thick,  2  feet  long,  lj4  feet  wide,  and  of 
well-seasoned  hickory  or  oak.  Pine  or  soft  wood  gives  the 
fish  a  woody  taste.  Scale  a  fine  shad,  split  it  down  the  back, 
clean  it,  wash  well  and  wipe  dry.  Dredge  it  with  salt  and 
pepper,  place  the  plank  before  a  clear  fire  to  get  very  hot. 
Then  spread  the  shad  open  and  nail  it  skin  next  the  hot  plank 
with  tacks.  Put  it  before  the  fire  with  the  large  end  down. 
In  a  few  minutes  turn  the  board  so  that  the  other  end  will  be 
down.  To  tell  when  it  is  done  pierce  it  with  a  fork.  If  the 
flesh  be  flakey  it  is  done.  Spread  with  butter  and  serve  on 
the  plank,  or  draw  the  tacks  carefully  and  slide  the  shad 
into  a  hot  dish. 

25 


STUFFED    SMELTS. 

Large  smelts;  Chopped  parsley; 

1  heaping  teaspoon  butter;  Paprika; 

Bread;  Worcestershire  sauce; 

Onion;  1  egg. 

Take  smelts,  clean  and  open  for  stuffing,  season  and  let  lay 
for  two  hours.  Then  add  following  stuffing:  Butter  (grate  a 
little  onion  with  it  when  hot)  ;  stir  in  some  raw  chopped  fish ; 
stir  until  cooked.  Add  bread  which  has  been  soaked  and  squeezed, 
remove  from  fire,  add  seasoning  and  egg ;  mix  and  stuff  each  fish 
and  fasten  with  a  toothpick.  Dip  each  fish  in  cream,  then  in  flour, 
place  in  well  buttered  pan,  put  flakes  of  butter  on  top  and  bake. 

— N.  Y. 

VEGETABLE  FISH   SAUCE. 

Beans;  Mushrooms; 

Carrots;  Catsup; 

Parsley;  Red  Pepper; 

Peppers;  Flour; 

Celery;  Butter; 

Onion;  Soup  stock. 
Tomatoes ; 

Cut  all  vegetables  fine,  such  as  beans,  green  peppers, 
carrots,  celery,  parsley,  and  a  little  onion.  Either  fresh  or 
canned  tomatoes  may  be  used,  and  same  with  mushrooms ;  add 
a  little  catsup  and  red  pepper  and  boil  slowly  in  a  little  water 
for  three  hours.  Lastly,  brown  some  flour  in  butter,  add 
stock  to  thin  out,  and  add  the  vegetables.  This  is  served 
separately  as  accompaniment  to  a  halibut  ring  or  any  boiled 
fish. 

— Mrs.  Sol.  Kaufman,  New  York. 


26 


MEMORANDUM 


27 


MEMORANDUM 


28 


CALF'S  BRAIN  PATTIES. 

Soak  brains  in  warm  water;  wash  them  in  cold  water. 
Tie  loosely  in  a  cloth,  cover  with  boiling  water,  to  which  1 
tablespoon  vinegar  is  added.  Boil  Yi  hour.  Remove  them 
and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  When  cold  cut  in  small 
pieces. 

CAVIAR  EGG  ENTREE  BASB^ETS. 

Eggs;  1  lemon. 

1  can  caviar; 

Take  as  many  eggs  as  are  required,  allowing  one-half  egg 

for  each  person.     Boil  the  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  lengthwise, 

take  out  yolk  carefully.    Cut  each  yolk  in  half,  put  in  egg  bowl 

and  in  the  other  side  one  spoon  caviar.    Cut  lemon  in  round, 

thin  slices,  and  use  this  for  the  handle.    Serve  on  rye  bread, 

toast  or  a  round  cracker. 

— Mrs.  M.  M.  Kann. 

CLAM    FARCI. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  Nutmeg; 

1  tablespoon  flour;  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley; 

1  cup  milk;  Yolks  of  3  eggs; 

1  tablespoon  salt;  2  cups  boiled  clams; 

Cayenne  pepper  or  paprika;  Bread  crumbs. 

Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  saucepan ;  when  it  bub- 
bles add  the  flour.  Cook  the  mixture,  but  do  not  allow  it  to 
get  brown.  Slowly  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  it  is  smooth. 
Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  add  the  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  a 
little  nutmeg,  the  parsley,  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs, 
mashed  fine,  and  lastly  the  boiled  clams,  which  have  been 
chopped  very  fine.  Fill  ramekins  with  the  mixture.  Cover 
each  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  a  small  lump  of  butter  on 
each. 

29 


CHICKEN   LIVER  TIMBALES. 

4  or  S  chicken  livers  (raw);  1  tablespoon  cracker  dust; 

Yi  pt.  cream;  Butter  (size  of  an  egg.) 

2  eggs; 

Press  chicken  livers  through  colander ;  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste ;  cream  eggs,  cracker  dust  and  butter.  Butter  timbale 
molds  and  fill  three-quarters  full,  put  in  pan  of  water  in  oven 
twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  and  with  aspar- 
agus, if  so  desired. 

— N.  Y. 

CHICKEN    AND    MUSHROOM    TIMBALES. 

Chicken;  Asparagus  tips; 

Veal  bone;  Button  mushrooms; 

Seasoning;  Pimentos. 
Lemon  juice; 

The  day  before  required  make  a  good  stock  of  an  old  hen  and 
a  few  knuckles  of  veal.  Season  to  taste.  Let  it  simmer  about 
five  hours,  but  do  not  boil  down  too  much.  Next  morning  re- 
move all  fat,  and  add  lemon  to  flavor. 

Test  consistency  of  the  jelly  before  serving  in  timbale  moulds. 
Fill  individual  moulds  with  diced  meat  of  chicken,  the  tips  of 
canned  asparagus,  and  button-mushrooms  cut  in  half;  also  some 
thinly  sliced  pimentos.  Fill  about  two-thirds  full  and  pour  over 
the  liquid  aspic.  Place  in  refrigerator  until  firm  and  cold.  Re- 
move from  molds  when  ready  to  serve,  cover  with  a  good  mayon- 
naise and  decorate  with  truffles  or  pimentos  cut  into  rings. 

— Mrs.  A.  M.  Hast. 

CHICKEN    PATTIES. 

1  cooked  chicken;  2  tablespoons  flour; 

1  can  mushrooms;  1  pt.  cream; 
Yolks  of  2  eggs;  Seasoning. 

2  tablespoons  butter; 

Cut  white  meat  of  the  chicken  into  dice  and  mix  with  the 
mushrooms.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  cream, 
and  when  thickened  add  the  chicken  and  mushrooms,  and 
just  before  taking  from  the  stove  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
season  well.     Fill  in  cases  and  serve. 

— Bessie  Cohen,  Cleveland. 
30 


DEVILED    CRABS. 

12  crabs;  ^  pt.  cream; 

Salt;  Lump  butter; 

Red  pepper;  Flour; 

2  hard-boiled  eggs;  Paprika; 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley;  Worcestershire  sauce; 

Bread  crumbs;  Onion  juice. 

Boil  12  live  crabs  for  about  20  minutes,  adding  salt  and  red 
pepper  to  boiling  water.  Make  a  rich  cream  sauce  with  half 
pt.  cream,  small  lump  of  butter  and  flour  enough  to  thicken. 
Add  to  the  crab  meat,  salt  paprika  and  Worcestershire  sauce 
to  taste,  dlso  grated  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  the  chopped  pars- 
ley (onion  juice  may  be  used  or  omitted)  ;  and  lastly  the 
cream  sauce.  The  mixture  should  be  creamy,  so  add  more 
sauce  if  necessary.  Heap  this  generously  into  shells  and 
cover  lightly  with  bread  crumbs  and  small  piece  of  butter, 
and  brown  in  hot  oven  10  to  15  minutes. 

—Mrs.  A.  M.  Hast. 

EGG  TIMBALES. 

Tongue,  or  mushrooms;  eggs;  butter.  Butter  timbale 
moulds  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  tongue  or  mushrooms. 
Drop  in  each  mould  an  egg  and  a  little  piece  of  butter;  set 
moulds  in  pan  of  water  in  the  oven  until  eggs  are  set.  Serve 
on  toast,  with  either  a  cream  or  tomato  sauce. 

— Mrs.  A.  H.  New,  New  York. 

FRICASSE  OF  LOBSTER. 

1  cup  lobster  meat;  Pinch  red  pepper; 
J4  can  peas;  yi  teaspoon  salt; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice; 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 

1  cup  cream; 

Stir  butter  and  flour  smooth  like  paste,  then  add  cream, 

salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice  and  parsley,  and  let  boil.    Then  add 

the  lobster,  which  has  already  been  cooked  and  cut  into  dice, 

and  let  boil  a  few  minutes.     Before  serving  add  the  peas. 

Serve  on  toast,  in  the  shell  or  in  ramekins. 

— Mrs.  Nathan  Liebshutz,  Cleveland. 
31 


POULETTE  SAUCE. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  Y^.  cup  chopped  mushrooms; 

1  heaping  tablespoon  flour;  Season  with  a  little  nutmeg. 

1  cup  warm  milk; 

Add  chopped  brains,  and  serve  in  pattie  shells. 


FROGLEGS  A  LA  MERRILL. 

54  tb.  fresh  froglegs  (cut  at  each  joint); 
1  tablespoon  butter;  Salt; 

1  wineglass  sherry  or  Madeira;        Red  pepper; 
3  eggs;  Yi  pt.  cream. 

2  finely-chopped  mushrooms; 

Put  froglegs  in  pan  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  cook 
five  minutes,  add  wine  and  mushrooms;  cook  3  minutes  more. 
Then  beat  yolks  of  eggs  with  cream;  pour  into  pan  with  frog- 
legs.   Shuffle  gently  until  sauce  thickens.    Serve  very  hot. 

— Mrs.  Sol.  Kaufman,  New  York. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

2  eggs;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

1  pt.  cream  or  milk;  J^  glass  sherry; 

1  teaspoon  flour;  y^  cup  brandy; 

Lobster;  Salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  and  pick  your  lobster  and  cut  into  pieces.  Then 
prepare  a  sauce  with  above  ingredients;  cook  it  thoroughly 
and  pour  over  the  lobster. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 

OYSTERS   A   LA   NEWBURG. 

1  qt.  oysters,  strained;  54  can  truffles; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  4  eggs  (yolks); 

1  wineglass  sherry;  54  pt.  cream. 
1  can  mushrooms; 

Season  oysters  and   heat   with  butter  and   sherry.     Cook 

in    their    liquor    for    five    minutes   mushrooms    cut    in    half 

and   truffles   cut   small.     Add   to   oysters.     Beat   eggs,   add 

cream,  put  into  the  mixture  and  heat.    Serve  on  toast  or  in 

ramekins. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kingsbacher. 
32 


MUSHROOMS   UNDER   BELLS. 

Saute  mushrooms  in  1  tablespoon  butter  to  the  pound: 
add  salt,  pepper  and  1  cup  cream.  Cover  and  simmer  slowly 
for  10  minutes.  Put  slices  of  toast  on  dishes;  cover  with 
mushrooms,  pour  the  sauce  over.  Put  on  the  bells,  set  in 
oven  15  minutes.    Serve  without  removing  bells. 

— N.  Y. 


OYSTERS  A  LA  RICHELIEU. 

40  oysters  (large  size);  Juice  of  54  lemon; 

Oyster  juice;  1  pt.  thick  cream; 

2  ounces  butter;  Grated  nutmeg; 

Yolks  of  4  eggs;  Paprika; 

1  full  tablespoon  flour;  Salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste. 

Boil  oysters  in  juice  for  five  minutes.  Take  out  oysters 
and  cut  in  half.  Rub  butter  and  eggs  to  a  cream.  Add  flour 
and  all  seasonings.  Add  cream  and  oysters,  and  one  pint  of 
oyster  liquor.  Put  all  together  in  double  boiler  and  stir 
constantly  until  thick.  Put  into  ramekins,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  in  oven  for 
5  minutes  and  serve  at  once.    This  will  serve  eight  persons. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Dreifus. 


SARDINE  ENTREE. 

Sardines;  Salt; 

Slices  of  bread;  Pepper; 

American  cheese;  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Parsley; 

Take  long  slices  of  bread  a  finger-length,  and  width  of  a  sar- 
dinee.  Drop  bread  in  boiling  fat  until  brown.  Take  out  and  place 
on  brown  paper.  When  cold,  place  on  dish ;  on  top  of  each  slice 
put  a  sardine.  Then  mix  some  grated  American  cheese  and 
chopped  parsley.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Cover  each  sardine  with  a  good  quantity  of  the  mixture 
and  bake  in  oven.    Serve  at  once. 

— New  York. 
33 


TIMBALE  OF  PEAS. 

1  cup  strained  peas;  J4  teaspoon  salt; 

Yolks  of  3  eggs ;  Dash  paprika. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter; 

Mix  together  and  pour  into  small  timbale  moulds.  Place 
moulds  in  pan  of  water  and  into  the  oven  until  mixture  is  solid. 

— New  York. 

VEAL    CROQUETTES. 

3  lbs.  lean  veal;  1  egg; 

1  lb.  pork;  1  heart  celery; 

Bread  crumbs;  1  lemon. 

Boil  meat  until  tender,  cut  in  small  pieces;  cut  celery  very 
fine;  add  one  beaten  egg,  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and 
lemon  juice  when  mixed  well.  Shape,  dip  in  beaten  egg  yolk, 
then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hop  drippings  until  a  nice  brown. 
If  placed  on  ice  a  few  hours  before  frying  will  add  much  to  their 
delicacy. 

VEAL   ENTREE. 

y^  tb.  boiled  veal;  5  eggs; 

XVi  cups  bread  crumbs;  1  glass  milk; 

J4  cup  butter;  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  veal  through  fine  grinder.     Mix  butter,  milk  and  bread 

crumbs  and  seasoning ;  boil  thoroughly.    Set  away  to  cool.    Then 

mix  with  the  veal,  and  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Place  in  form  and  boil  for  J^  hour. 

— Mrs.  A.  H.  New,  New  York. 


34 


MEMORANDUM 

1 


xS^^^'- 


.6-   An  n 


m 


MEMORANDUM 


36 


STEAK  (Hungarian  Style). 

Porterhouse  steak;  Green  peppers; 

Salt  and  pepper;  1  cup  soup  stock; 

XDnions;  ?4  cup  tomato  catsup. 
Lemon; 

Take  a  thick  steak,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  in 
Dutch  oven  or  heavy  iron  frying  pan.  Cover  top  of  steak  with 
sliced  onions,  then  layer  of  lemon  sliced  very  thin  (seeds  extrac- 
ted) ;  and  on  top  of  this  a  layer  of  finely-cut  green  peppers,  which 
have  been  previously  soaked  in  water  an  hour  before 
using.  Over  all  pour  soup  stock  and  catsup  (mixed).  Bake 
in  oven,  without  covering,  20  to  30  minutes.  Serve  with 
onions,  lemon  and  peppers  on  top  of  steak,  the  remainder 
served  in  bowl. 

— Mrs.  Leon  Wertheimer. 

BEEF  STEAK  WITH  PALE  ALE. 

When  steak  is  served  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  it, 
and  over  all  pour  half  a  glass  of  ale,  kneading  the  steak  until 
a  delicious  gravy  is  obtained.  This  recipe  is  from  a  well- 
known  grille  room  in  England,  where  steaks  are  served  to  per- 
fection. * 

— Anon. 

FILLET    MIGNON. 

Have  tender  fillet  two  or  three  inches  thick.  Before  using 
•dip  in  olive  oil,  season  and  broil  from  10  to  15  minutes.   Serve 

with  Bernaise  sauce. 

—Mrs.  L.  B. 
37 


STUFFED  STEAK. 
1  slice  of  round  steak  cut  thin ;  fill  it  with  turkey  dress- 
ing, then  tie  the  steak  together  or  roll  it.  Steam  2  hours  IS 
or  20  minutes  before  serving;  put  it  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with 
flour  and  pieces  of  butter;  put  in  a  baking  or  broiling  oven 
until  brown. 

ENGLISH    BEEFSTEAK    PIE. 

Raw  steak,  cut  into  pieces;  boiled  potatoes,  sliced;  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  chopped ;  salt,  pepper  and  ginger — a  pinch.  Make 
a  good  pie  crust.  Take  a  deep  pudding  dish  and  line  the 
sides  with  the  crust  (none  on  the  bottom) .  Then  put  in  alter- 
nately a  layer  of  steak,  potatoes  and  eggs.  Season  well. 
Make  two  layers  of  each,  sprinkle  a  little  water  over  top, 
then  cover  with  pie  crust.  Bake  one  hour.  The  gravy  within 
is  delicious. 

MUTTON   PASTIES    (English). 
Prepare  exactly  the  same  as  the  Beefsteak  Pie,  using  mut- 
ton or  lamb  instead.    These  are  not  made  in  a  pie,  but  indi- 
vidual. 

— Mrs.  Josiah  Cohen. 

VIRGINIA    STEAK. 

1  round  steak;  Fat; 

Seasoning;  Onion; 

Flour;  Hot  water. 

Cut  a  thin  steak  into  pieces  sufficient  to  serve  one  to  a  person. 
Dip  these  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in  fat,  in  which  some  sliced 
onion  has  been  fried.  The  onions  should  be  removed  from  fat 
when  former  is  slightly  browned.  Sufficient  boiling  water  is 
used  in  which  to  boil  the  fried  steak  and  onions  for  about  two 
hours.  This  makes  a  nice  stew,  with  a  delicious  brown  gravy, 
if  properly  seasoned  and  too  much  water  has  not  been  u^ed. 

— Mrs.  A.  Leo  Weil, 
38 


VEAL  RAGOUT. 

Cold  veal,  chopped;  1   tablespoon  butter; 

1  cup   stock;  I  tablespoon  flour; 

1  cup  mushrooms,  chopped;  Seasoning. 

2  tablespoons  catsup; 

Brown  flour  in  butter,  add  stock  when  boiling ;  add  other 
ingredients  and  stew  gently  ten  minutes. 

PAPRIKA    SCHNITZEL. 

Veal;  Peppef; 

1  cup  sour  cream;  Paprika. 

Salt; 

Veal  chops  or  slices  from  the  round.  Dust  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  fry  in  butter  for  about  15  minutes.  Pour  into  the  pan 
the  cup  of  sour  cream,  season  generously  with  paprika  and 
finish  cooking    until    sauce    is    smooth    and    thick.     Paprika 

chicken  can  be  prepared  same  way. 

—Mrs.  D.  S. 

VEAL  BIRDS  ON  TOAST. 

5  veal  chops;  J^  cup  milk; 

3  tablespoons  bread  crumbs;  1  can  peas. 

1  ^g; 

Cut  out  the  round  part  of  the  chop,  pound  until  thin, 
spread  with  the  following  mixture:  The  meat  off  the 
chop  minced  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  the  bread 
crumbs  and  the  egg  mixed.  P'asten  with  toothpicks,  dip  in 
flour  wHch  has  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry 
a  golden  brown.  Add  the  milk  and  let  boil  3  minutes.  Re- 
move the  birds  and  put  on  round  pieces  of  toast  dipped  in  the 
gravy.  Remove  the  toothpicks.  Serve  on  a  platter  with  peas. 
— Mrs.  Joseph  Klopfer,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

BARBECUED    LAMB. 

Piece  of  lamb;  Cayenne  pepper; 

Mustard;  Vi  cup  vinegar; 

Worcester  sauce;  Salt. 

Put  lamb  in  oven  with  a  little  water,  use  a  little  pepper, 

mustard,  vinegar,  Worcester  sauce  and  salt.    Baste  the  meat  well 

with  the  sauce. 

— Macon,  Ga. 
39 


BOEUF  A  LA  MODE. 

S  lbs.  rump  roast;  Red  pepper; 

Salt;  Marrow; 

Bay  leaves;  1  cup  vinegar. 

1  onion; 

Season  roast,  with  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  bay  leaves.  Put 
over  this  as  much  marrow  as  you  can  possiblp  get,  add  to  it  vine- 
gar; let  it  stand  covered  in  cool  place  for  several  days.  When 
ready  for  use,  steam  slowly  for  about  three  hours  without  adding 

water. 

— Macon,  Ga. 

CANELON  OF  BEEF, 

2  lbs.  round  steak;  Nutmeg; 

1  tablespoon  Worcester;  1  teaspoon  salt; 

1  egg;  y^  cup  bread. 

Grind  round  steak;  add  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  Worcester 
sauce,  salt,  a  few  grains  of  pepper,  a  beaten  egg ;  add  also  bread, 
crust  removed,  softened  in  cold  water  and  wrung  dry  in  a  cloth. 
Mix  all  thoroughly  and  shape  into  a  roll.  Bake  about  half  an 
hour,  basting  often  with  butter,  melted  in  hot  water. 

LAMB  FILLETS  AU  PARMESAN,  BROILED. 

2  lbs.  lamb  cutlets;  2  tablespoons  Parmesan  cheese; 
2  tablespoons  fine  crumbs;  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  meat  into  six  fillets  and  dip  in  melted  butter ;  dust  with 

seasoning ;  roll  in  the  crumbs  and  cheese  and  broil  for  10  minutes, 

turning  often. 

DELICIOUS    POT    ROAST. 

Meat;  Pepper; 

Onion;  Flour; 

Yt,  green  pepper;  J4  can  tomatoes; 

1  carrot;  1  can  mushrooms. 

Salt; 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  rump  or  shoulder,  brown  in  butter  or  fat. 
When  brown  add  small  onion,  the  half  of  green  pepper,  a  little 
flour,  a  carrot,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  tomatoes.  Let  cook 
slowly  until  tender,  strain  gravy  and  add  a  can  of  strained 
mushrooms. 

— Mrs.  Jonathan  A.  Perley. 
40 


SWEET  AND  SOUR  MEAT. 
Put  three  or  four  lbs  of  shoulder  in  a  deep  bowl,  covered 
with  vinegar,  a  little  salt,  a  few  cloves,  a  sliced  onion  and  a 
slice  of  lemon.  Allow  this  to  stand  two  days.  Then  boil 
until  tender,  adding  to  the  mixture  a  little  brown  sugar,  a  few 
ginger  snaps  dipped  in  vinegar  to  thicken  the  gravy,  and  one- 
half  cup  of  raisins. 

—Mrs.  Abe  J.  DeRoy. 


POT    ROAST    VEAL. 

Stewing  veal;  4  onions; 

Beef  fat;  2  slices  rye  bread; 

V-i  teaspoon  paprika;  Salt. 

Cut  stewing  veal  in  pieces.  Put  beef,  chicken  or  goose 
fat  in  kettle  (add  a  little  salt  to  fat  to  prevent  meat  from 
sticking.)  Fry  the  pieces  until  brown,  then  add  hot  water 
enough  to  stew  the  meat,  without  having  to  add  any 
more.  Stew  slowly  over  a  covered  fire.  When  half  tender 
add  salt,  and  paprika,  the  onions,  sliced  thick,  and  if 
desired  use  rye  bread  to  thicken  gravy  instead  of  flour.  A 
very  good  addition  is  to  pare  even  sized  potatoes  and  lay  on 
top  of  meat  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  serving.  Turn 
the  potatoes  as  they  brown. 

—Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufman. 


HOME-MADE   CORNED    BEEF. 

4  lbs.  brisket;  1  teaspoon  ginger; 

1  teaspoon  saltpetre;  1  tablespoon  brown  sugar; 

Whole  peppers;  1  cup  salt. 

Remove  the  bones  from  a  piece  of  brisket.  Rub  the  spices 
well  into  the  meat  and  cover  with  water,  placing  a  plate  and  suf- 
ficient weight  to  hold  meat  under  the  water.  Ready  for  boiling 
after  10  days. 

— Mrs.  Herman  Hirsch. 
41 


CASSEROLE  OF  RICE  AND  MEAT. 

1  cup  rice;  Pepper; 

3  cups  cold  cooked  meat;  1  egg; 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion;  1  saltspoon  celery  salt; 

Salt;  2  teaspoons  bread  crumbs; 

Boil  1  cup  of  rice  until  tender.  Chop  fine  3  cups  cold  cooked 
meat ;  add  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper, 

1  egg,  1  saltspoon  of  celery  salt  and  2  teaspoons  bread  crumbs.  If 

you  have  any  soup  stock  on  hand,  add  sufficient  to  moisten  well. 

Butter  a  mould,  line  with  rice  J4  inch  thick,  put  in  meat,  then 

cover  with  rice.     Cover  closely  and  steam  45  minutes.     Serve 

with  brown  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 

— Mrs.  A.  Kingsbacher. 

DEVILED    KIDNEYS. 

4  lamb  kidneys;  %  teaspoon  salt; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  Yi  teaspoon  curry  or  paprika; 
1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce;    2  tablespoons  claret. 

1  teaspoon  mustard; 

Soak  kidneys  1  hour  in  ice  water,  scald  and  cut  into  thin 
slices.  Place  butter  in  a  pan;  when  hot  add  the  kidneys  and  all 
ingredients  except  wine.    Cook  five  minutes ;  add  claret  and  serve. 

—Mrs.  A.  J,  A. 

SOUFFLE  OF  HAM. 

y^  cup  macaroni;  2  eggs; 

1  cup  boiled  ham;  1  cup  milk. 

Cook  macaroni,  broken  into  inch  lengths,  in  rapidly  boiling 

salt  water  till  tender;  drain  and  rinse  in  plenty  of  cold  water. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  put  macaroni  into  it,  alternately 

with  the  ham,  chopped  fine.    Sprinkle  each  layer  with  grated 

Parmesan  cheese.    Beat  eggs  and  add  milk,   then  pour   over 

the  mixture  and  bake  till  a  custard  is  formed. 

FRESH    TONGUE. 

Boil  a  fresh  tongue  in  salted  water  until  tender,  and  skin 
it  carefully,  and  serve  with  following  sauce :  1  cup  bouillon ; 
1  wineglass  sherry;  pinch  cayenne;  J4  glass  tart  jelly.  All 
mixed  well  together. 

— Detroit. 
42 


VEAL  LOAF. 

Chop  2  lbs.  veal  and  1-3  pound  of  ham  or  bacon  very  fine 
and  mix  with  y^  teaspoon  black  pepper ;  1  of  salt ;  1  of  onion 
juice ;  1  of  summer  savory ;  a  pinch  of  allspice  and  J^  cup  fine 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  When  well  stirred  in  add  2  eggs, 
beaten  together  till  light ;  2  tablespoons  of  cream,  and  1  tea- 
spoon melted  butter.  Press  into  a  mold  previously  wet  in  cold 
water,  and  turn  out  carefully  on  to  a  flat  baking  pan.  Bake 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  frequently.  Serve  on  a 
hot  platter,  garnished  with  watercress  and  stewed  cauliflower. 


CHOP  SUEY. 

1  tb.  young  pork,  cut  into  small  slices; 
Livers,  gizzards  and  hearts  of  2  chickens,  sUced; 

2  stalks  celery;  Yz  teaspoon  salt; 

Yt  oz.  green  ginger  root;  }4  teaspoon  black  pepper; 

4  oz.  olive  oil;  Yi  teaspoon  red  pepper; 

2  tablespoons  vinegar;  Yi  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

Yi  cup  boiling  water;  Cloves  to  taste; 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce;  Small  can  mushrooms; 

Y2  cup  Chinese  bean  sprouts  (if  possible); 

1  small  can  peas;  1  small  can  asparagus  tips. 

1  small  can  string  beans; 

Put  4  ounces  olive  oil  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  and  when 
hot  add  meat,  celery  and  ginger  root.  As  soon  as  lightly  colored, 
add  vinegar,  Worcestershire  sauce,  water,  salt,  pepper^  cinna- 
mon, cloves.  When  pork  and  giblets  are  almost  tender,  add 
vegtables  (any  one  of  which  can  be  omitted).  Cook  a  little 
more;  drain  ofif  superfluous  juice;  add  1  teaspoon  Chinese 
brown  "se  yu"  sauce  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 


MOCK  DUCK. 

Parboil  a  round  steak.  Make  a  stuffing  as  for  duck.  Sea- 
son same  with  sage  and  onions;  spread  generously  over  the 
steak;  roll  up  and  tie  securely,  and  roast  in  oven  for  J^  hour. 

—Mrs.  R.  R. 
43 


Before  broiling  a  steak,  cover  both  sides  liberally  with  olive 
oil,  and  season  steak  after  broiling. 

—Chef  Hotel  Schenley. 

When  roasting  meat  in  an  open  pan  wet  a  clean  white  muslin 
cloth  and  lay  over  the  top  of  the  meat.  It  will  keep  from,  getting  hard 
and  does  not  require  hasting  so  often,  and  the  meat  is  much  nicer. 


44 


MEMORANDUM 


45 


MEMORANDUM 


46 


T(D)  Serve  wUh  Meatt 
amd  PcDiuiIlitiry 


ASPIC. 

Take  any  strong,  well  seasoned  soup  stock,  which  has 
been  boiled  with  a  number  of  bones,  (causing  the  'stock  to  jell 
when  cold.)  When  strained,  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  some 
sherry  and  j4  box  gelatine.  When  cold,  stir  into  the  jelly,  to 
clarify  it,  the  partially-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  adding  the 
crushed  egg  shells.  Place  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  boils, 
then  strain  through  a  double  cloth. 

—Mrs.  S.  B.  Goldsmit. 

CALF'S  FOOT  JELLY. 


4  calf's  feet; 

1  pt.  white  wine; 

1  gal.  water; 

6  eggs; 

Rind  of  1  lemon; 

Sugar. 

Juice  of  1  lemon. 

Boil  the  calf's  feet,  water  and  lemon  rind.    Strain  off  the  fat 

and  add  the  wine.    When  cold,  add  sugar,  juice  of  lemon  and 

beaten  whites  of  eggs.    Boil  15  minutes  longer.    Strain  through 

a  bag  and  put  in  molds  and  serve  cold. 

— Mrs.  J.  Prince,  Cleveland. 

CHESTNUT  DRESSING. 

1  pt.  large  nuts;  Pepper; 

1  cup  bread  crumbs;  Butter. 

Salt; 

Boil  tender  and  mash  the  nuts  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Add  a  lump  butter  and  mix  lightly  but  thoroughly,  with 
a  large  cupful  dry  bread  crumbs.  The  latter  prevents  the 
dressing  from  getting  soggy.  This  is  sufficient  to  stuff  a  10- 
pound  turkey. 

—Mrs.  M.  Srfller. 

47 


BAKED  APPLES  TO  SERVE  WITH  MEAT. 

Wash  and  core  tart  apples,  then  fill  with  equal  parts  of 
crumbs  and  mushrooms.  Season  with  catsup  or  fine  herbs,  as 
preferred.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  on  top  of  each  apple,  add  a  little 
water  to  the  baking  pan  and  bake  until  tender. 

CREOLE  SAUCE. 

2  tomatoes;  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce; 

%  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper;  1   tablespoon  onions; 

1  oz.  butter;  1  tablespoon  parsley. 

Chop  tomatoes,  onion  and  parsley  very  fine  and  boil  together 

for  15  minutes,   (all  ingredients  mixed  in).     Strain  and  serve 

cold,  or  if  served  hot  add  a  little  flour  to  thicken.     Nice  with 

meats,  hot  or  cold. 

—Mrs.  Ph.  Hart,  New  Orleans. 

ORANGE  COMPOTE. 

Peel  and  slice  each  orange  into  three  round  pieces.  Make 
a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  flavored  with  vanilla.  Add  oranges 
and  boil  until  tender.    Cool,  and  serve  with  meat  or  poultry. 

—Mrs.  E.  A.  Cohen. 

QUINCE  CHEESE. 

1  tb.  quinces  to  %  ^-  sugar.    Boil  until  soft,  the  quinces 

cut  into  pieces,  and  pass  same  through  a  sieVe.     Boil  sugar 

and  quinces  in  above  proportion   for  a  good  half  hour;  then 

pour  into  fancy  forms  and  allow  to  cool.  Splendid  to  serve  with 

meat  or  poultry. 

—Mrs.  J.  Black,  20  Fifth  St. 

SAUCE  ALLEMANDE. 

2  oz.  butter;  2  bay  leaves; 
2  oz.  flour;  3  cloves; 

1  pt.  stock;  Thyme; 

Salt;  2  wineglasses  cream; 

Pepper;  1  wineglass  sherry; 

1   clove  garlic;  Juice  of  lemon. 

Melt  butter  and  mix  with  flour.  Add  stocky  pepper,  salt,  gar- 
lic, bay  leaves,  cloves,  and  a  little  thyme.  After  boiling  15  minutes 
strain,  pour  in  cream  and  sherry,  boil  15  minutes  longer,  add 

lemon  and  serve. 

48 


SAUCE  FOR  BROILED  CHICKEN. 

1  tablespoon  sweet  butter;  3  eggs  (separate); 

Flour;  1  cup  cream. 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  flour,  which  brown  to  a  deep 
yellow  (as  that  is  to  be  the  color  of  the  sauce).  Add  yolks  of 
eggs,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  Set  this  on  a  plate  on  the 
ice.  Add  the  cream  (well  beaten)  by  the  spoonful,  meanwhile 
stirring  continuously,  and  whites  of  eggs  last.  Chicken  must 
be  hot,  and  this  cold  sauce  put  over  it  just  before  serving. 

— N.  Y. 


TOMATO  SAUCE. 
No.  1. 

1  pt.  tomatoes;  3  cloves; 

1  slice  onion;  2  tablespoons  butter; 

1  cup  water;  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  the  tomatoes  with  water,  onion  and 
cloves,  and  boil  10  minutes.  Melt  butter,  add  a  heaping  table- 
spoon flour;  pour  this  into  the  tomatoes,  boil  for  10  minutes 
longer  and  strain. 


TOMATO  SAUCE. 
No.  2. 

Whole  peppers  (a  few);  Red  onion  medium  sized; 

Knob  of  celery,-*  3  cloves; 

Butter;  3  cups  tomatoes; 

1  tablespoon  flour(scant;  1  carrot; 

3  tablespoons  sour  cream.  1  bay  leaf; 

Stick  cloves  into  onion  and  roast  it.  Put  in  saucepan,  toma- 
toes, carrot,  bay  leaf,  pepper  and  celery,  and  let  simmer  down 
to  one-half.  Rub  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter  with  flour  and 
thicken  sauce.  Strain  and  add  either  sweet  or  sour  cream. 
For  Spanish  omelet  add  cooked  shredded  green  peppers 
and  mushrooms ;  also  chicken  livers. 

— Mrs.  Leon  Wertheimer. 
49 


BARLEY  AND  PRUNES. 

1  cup  barly;  1  tablespoon  vinegar; 
J4  lb.  prunes;                                     Salt. 

Meat; 

Place  a  small  piece  of  fat  brisket  with  sufficient  water 
to  cover,  and  boil.  Skim  and  add  barley  and  cook  until  barley 
is  partly  tender,  then  add  the  prunes  and  boil  again,  slowly  for 

2  hours,  adding  some  salt  and  the  vinegar,  but  use  care  in 
stirring,  so  the  prunes  may  remain  whole.  This  dish  makes  a 
nice  accompaniment  to  a  pot  roast.    An  old  German  dish. 

^-Mrs.  Ph.  Silverman. 


50 


MEMORANDUM 


51 


MEMORANDUM 


BROWN  CHICKEN  FRICASSEE. 
Cut  up  chicken  in  usual  way  and  fry  until  tender  and 
brown.  Dredge  a  little  flour  into  the  grayy  and  brown.  Add 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  small  onion  (minced),  a  quart  of 
potatoes  and  small  bunch  of  parsley.  Simmer  gently  until  ten- 
der, and  serve  with  rice.  The  rice  may  be  cooked  with  the  stew. 

— Carrie  B.  Goodrich. 

BOILED  CHICKEN  PUDDING. 


Chicken; 

Salt; 

4  eggs; 

Pepper; 

H  lt>.  mushrooms; 

Paprika; 

Butter; 

1  pt.  cream. 

Boil  chicken  soft  and  chop  fine,  with  the  mushrooms.  Beat 
egg  yolks  and  large  piece  butter,  then  add  chicken  and  mushroom 
seasoning,  the  beaten  whites  and  cream.  Place  in  well-greased 
form  and  steam  lYz  hours.  Sauce — 1  cup  sweet  cream;  J4  cup 
mushroom  sauce,  and  a  few  chopped  truffles. 

RECHAUFFE  OF  DUCK. 

1  cup  chopped  duck  meat;  J4  cup  gravy  left  from  roast  duck; 

2  tablespoons  tomato  capsup;  %  teaspoon  salt; 
%  cup  grape  or  currant  jelly;  Dash  of  pepper; 
2  tablespoons  butter;  6  or  8  cloves. 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch;  Olives. 

Heat  gravy,  catsup,  jelly ;  cream  butter  with  cornstarch ;  add 
salt,  pepper,  and  stir  into  hot  liquid;  let  boil  once,  then  simmer 
gently  25  minutes.  Add  olives,  stoned,  cut  into  slices,  and 
chopped  duck  meat ;  let  heat  without  cooking  5  or  6  minutes,  then 
serve. 

53 


CHICKEN-ENrCASSEROLE. 

1  chicken;  1  teaspoon  salt; 

1  carrot;  1  small  onion; 

1  qt.  boiling  water  or  stock;  1  saltspoon  pepper. 

Cut  chicken  and  vegetables  and  place  in  casserole  with 
chicken  on  top;  cover  with  stock  and  bake  uncovered  in  a  hot 
oven  for  y^  hour.  When  nicely  browned,  add  seasoning  and  bake 
slowly  for  another  hour. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Fink. 


JUMBALLAYA. 
A  Spanish  Creole  Dish. 

1  cup  rice;  J4  can  tomatoes; 

Slice  of  ham;  1  onion; 

Cold  roast  chicken;  1  pt.  hot  water. 
1  tb.  butter; 

Wash  the  rice  and  cook  it  well.  Cut  up  a  cold  roast  chicken 
or  the  remnants  of  a  turkey  and  a  slice  of  ham,  which  fry  in  a 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  the  tomatoes,  small  onion,  cut  fine; 
stir  in  the  rice  and  add  slowly  while  stirring  1  pt.  hot  water.  Cover 
the  pot  and  set  it  where  it  can  cook  slowly.  Jumballaya  is  very 
fine  to  serve  with  oysters  or  shrimps. 

— ^Mrs.  Philip  Hart,  New  Orleans. 


SCALLOPED  CHICKEN. 

1  chicken;  2  pair  sweetbreads. 

1  can  mushrooms; 

Boil  chicken  and  sweetbreads  and  cut  these  and  mushrooms 
into  small  pieces.  Mix  well  until  quite  soft  with  white  sauce. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  little 
onion.  Place  in  a  pudding  dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bits  of  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Fink. 
54 


BONED  TURKEY. 

1  turkey  of  10-12  pounds;  4  eggs; 

2  large  smoked  tongues;  2  large  celery  knobs; 

2  cups  cracker  meal;  1  teaspoon  ground  white  pepper; 

2  large  cloves;  Garlic; 

1  medium  onion;  2  level  teaspoons  sugar. 

To  bone  the  fowl,  use  a  small  sharp  saw  and  open  down 
the  back,  beginning  to  saw  from  back  of  neck  down.  Open  the 
turkey  flat  on  a  meat  board,  and  carefully  remove  the  meat  and 
skin  intact  from  the  bones  with  care  and  perseverance;  all 
bones  will  leave  the  meat  and  even  second  joints,  legs  and 
wings  can  be  freed  of  bones.  Make  a  stuffing  of  the  above  in- 
gredients, using  every  bit  of  tongues  and  omit  salt  as  the 
tongues  are  salted.  Stuff  the  fowl  closely  with  the  mixture, 
filling  legs,  wings  and  all,  and  sew  the  turkey  shut.  Season 
outside  of  turkey  and  roast  in  oven  same  as  any  fowl,  placing 
parsley  and  onion  in  the  water  of  pan.  Roast  slowly  and  not 
too  long  as  only  outer  meat  is  raw.  When  roasted  place  it  on 
its  side  and  press  slightly  by  covering  with  a  small  board 
weighted  on  either  end.    It  will  then  slice  beautifully. 

(Tongues  ground  and  celery,  garlic  and  onions  chopped 
fine.) 

— Mrs.  Sam.  Gallinger. 


ROAST  TURKEY  WITH  OYSTER  STUFFING. 

Turkey  weighing  8  or  10  lbs.;        1  lemon; 

1  loaf  stale  bread;  2  roots  celery; 

1  qt.  oysters;  J4  tt>-  butter. 

Crumble  bread  until  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
oysters,  setting  liquor  aside;  the  peel  of  the  lemon  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  the  juice;  celery  cut  fine  and  the  butter.  Stir  until 
thoroughly  mixed,  then  stuff  turkey.  Baste  frequently.  It  will 
take  at  least  2  hours.  Use  oyster  liquor  for  basting,  placing  the 
liquor  in  a  pan  in  the  oven.  Add  chopped  giblets  and  liver  to  the 

gravy. 

55 


STEAMED  SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Cut  chicken  in  half.  Put  very  large  piece  butter  in  pan 
and  when  hot  put  in  chicken,  seasoned  with  salt'  and  pepper. 
Cover  pan  and  add  small  quantity  of  hot  water  from  time  to 
time,  when  chicken  is  brown.  As  soon  as  chicken  is  tender, 
remove  lid  and  let  fry.  Before  serving,  put  flour  and  a  little 
water  in  pan  to  thicken  gravy. 

— ^Mrs.  James  Spandau. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  CASSAROLE. 

Chicken  (young);  Potatoes  (small  ball); 

Butter;  1  wineglass  sherry  wine; 

Vegetables  (peas,  carrots,  etc.);     1  wineglass  catsup. 

Cut  chicken  in  pieces;  add  bits  fresh  butter;  cover  with 
water;  after  1  hour  on  top  of  stove,  put  in  oven.  Half 
hour  before  finished,  add  vegetables ;  last,  the  potatoes ;  then 
the  sherry  wine  and  catsup,  and  season  with  salt,  red  pepper 
and  a  little  ginger.    May  serve  in  casserole. 

—Mrs.  I.  W.  Frank. 

CREAM  CHICKEN. 

1  chicken;  3  tablespoons  flour; 

1  pt.  cream;  1  can  mushrooms. 

2  tablespoons  butter; 

Boil  chicken  until  tender,  and  cut  in  dice;  skim  the  stock 
(which  should  be  about  1  qt.)  ;  when  cold,  strain.  Heat  the 
strained  stock  and  add  the  cream  while  hot.  Mix  the  butter, 
melted,  with  flour,  and  add  to  creamed  stock,  making  a  cream 
sauce.  Stir  this  into  the  chicken,  having  added  the  mushroom. 
Season  the  sauce  to  taste,  and  serve  either  in  patty  shells  or  over 
toast.    H  the  chicken  is  nice  and  fat,  do  not  use  butter. 

— Mrs.  Wm.  Teplansky,  Canton,  Ohio. 


56 


MEMORANDUM 


57 


MEMORANDUM 


58 


BOILED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Separate  and  boil  cauliflower;  dress  with  a  good  cream 
sauce;  place  in  individual  shells,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese 
on  top,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Very  good. 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT. 

1  egg  plant;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

Pepper;  2  eggs; 

White  bread;  Cracker  crumbs. 

Salt; 

Boil  egg  plant  whole  until  tender.  Scrape  out  pulp  care- 
fully, so  as  not  to  break  the  shell.  Mix  with  piece  of  soaked 
bread;  add  seasoning,  the  eggs  and  butter,  and  a  few  crumbs. 
Refill  shells  of  egg  plant  and  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bits  of 
butter  and  a  little  water.     Bake  in  hot  oven  for  20  minutes. 

—Miss  A.  S. 

BAKED  TOMATOES  WITH  CHICKEN  STUFFING. 


Tomatoes; 

Salt; 

Boiled  chicken  or  veal; 

Pepper; 

1  egg; 

Sage; 

J4  cup  bread  crumbs; 

Onion. 

Butter; 

Remove  pulp  from  selected  tomatoes  through  small  opening 
at  the  top,  and  drain  in  a  sieve.  .  For  stuffing,  chop  chicken  fine, 
or  use  equal  parts  of  veal  and  fowl;  add  beaten  egg,  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  butter,  the  spices  and  seasoning,  and  moisten  with 
some  of  the  tomato  juice.  Stuff  tomatoes  with  mixture  and  bake 
for  Yi  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.    May  be  served  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

— Anon. 
59 


CARROT  TIMBALES. 

4  carrots  (large);  1  teaspoon  salt; 

2  eggs;  1  saltspoon  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  heavy  cream; 

Scrape  and  cut  in  pieces  the  carrots,  and  boil  in  soup  stock 
until  tender ;  then  mash  through  collander.  Beat  the  eggs,  cream, 
salt  and  pepper  and  mix  the  carrots  in  this.  Butter  the  timbale 
molds,  fill  ^  full,  and  stand  same  in  hot  water.  Boil  25  minutes, 
and  serve  with  cream  sauce,  and  if  you  wish,  surround  with  green 
peas.    Nice  to  serve  with  birds  or  chicken. 

— N.  York. 


CHEESED  POTATOES. 

8  large  potatoes;  I   egg  (yolk); 

4  oz.  grated  cheese;  Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg. 

J4  cup  cream; 

Boil  potatoes;  beat  all  ingredients  together;  form  into  cro- 
quettes and  bake  until  golden  brown. 

— Mrs.  Abe  J.  DeRoy. 


CHESTNUT  VEGETABLE. 

1  It),  chestnuts;  1  cup  sugar; 

1  cup  soup  stock;  Butter,  size  of  walnut. 

Peel  and  blanch  chestnuts.    Then  boil  very  slowly  in  water 

until  about  half  done;  drain  off  any  remaining  water  and  add 

stock  and  sugar.    Let  this  simmer  until  it  is  soft,  adding  butter. 


CORN  FRITTERS. 

1  cup  corn;  Salt; 

4  eggs;  Pepper. 

6  soda  crackers; 

Grate  the  corn ;  add  6  rolled  soda  crackers ;  then  the  beaten 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fry  in  cakes  size  of 
an  egg  in  hot  fat. 

—Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufman. 
60 


CORN  OYSTERS. 

1  doz.  ears  corn;  4  tablespoons  flour; 

V2  doz.  eggs;  Salt. 

Fry  in  boiling  butter,  heated  as  for  oysters.    Canned  corn 
can  be  used  as  well. 


CORN  FRITTERS. 

10  ears  corn;  J4  cup  milk; 

3  yolks  eggs;  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Vz  cup  flour; 

Cut  kernells  of  corn  through  the  center  and  scrape  meat  out 
with  back  of  knife;  mix  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  with  it  and 
last,  3  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  froth.    Bake  on  griddle. 

— Mrs.  Louis  Schwarz. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

Fresh  or  canned  corn;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

2  eggs;  Seasoning; 

2  cups  milk;  Flour  (a  little). 

Use  finely-chopped  can  corn,  or  fresh,  scraped  from  the  cob. 
Make  a  batter  of  these  ingredients  and  bake  slowly  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish. 

CRUMBED  SWiJET  POTATOES. 

Sweet  potatoes  (boiled);  Pepper; 

Salt;  Sugar; 

Butter;  Bread  crumbs. 

Dice  the  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes,  and  place  in  layers 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt, 
pepper  and  sugar  and  bits  of  butter ;  cover  its  top  layer  with 
buttered  crumbs.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  ^  hour. 

CREAMED  CUCUMBERS. 
Pare  and  slice  cucumbers  a  little  thicker  than  for  salad. 
Boil  15  minutes  in  salt  water  and  serve  with  a  thickened  cream 
sauce  of  milk  and  ^^'g  yolks,  and  seasoned  to  taste. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 
61 


EGG  PLANT  PUDDING. 

1  egg  plant  (medium  sized);  3  eggs; 

5^  cup  bread;  Pepper. 

Salt; 

Peel  and  cut  egg  plant  and  soak  in  salt  water  for  Yz  hour. 
Then  boil  soft  and  mash;  add  soaked  bread,  egg  yolks  and 
seasoning.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  mix  in  last.  Bake  in  but- 
tered pudding  dish,  for  20  minutes. 

— H.  K.  L. 


FILLED  CABBAGE. 

V/i  tbs.  round  steak;  I  tablespoon  raw  rice; 

Jltb.  veal;  Small  pieces  of  bread,  well  soaked; 

2  eggs;  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Grind  meat  and  mix  together  with  eggs,  soaked  bread, 
rice  and  seasoning.  Scald  1  doz.  nice  large  cabbage  leaves; 
fill  each  one  with  meat  and  roll.  Strain  1  can  tomatoes  and  add 
to  it  a  little  water.  Place  the  filled  leaves  in  and  boil  for  2 
hours.    Thicken  with  browned  flour. 

— Mrs.  M.  Gusky. 


FRIED  SWEET  PEPPERS. 

Peppers;  eggs;  salt.  Remove  all  seeds  from  peppers, 
which  cut  into  thin  rings  and  fry  in  butter,  covering  for  about 
10  minutes.  Then  mix  as  many  eggs  as  desired  and  scramble 
all  together,  adding  seasoning. 

—Mrs.  L.  H. 


LENTIL  CUTLETS. 

Soak  and  cook  1  cup  lentils;  3  grated  onions;  1  teaspoon 
thyme.  Enough  bread  crumbs  to  make  stiff  mixture.  Shape, 
dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Lima  or  navy 
beans  can  be  used  in  place  of  lentils. 

62 


MACARONI— ITALIAN  FASHION. 

%  tb  macaroni;  %  grated  onion; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  J^  teaspoon  beef  extract. 

J^  pt.  tomatoes; 

Break  macaroni  into  pieces  2  inches  long;  throw  into  boiling 
water  and  boil  rapidly  20  minutes;  drain  and  cover  with  good 
stock  and  boil  20  minutes  more.  By  that  time  the  stock  has 
evaporated ;  then  add  to  macaroni,  butter,  thick  strained  tomatoes, 
mashed  onion  grated,  and  beef  extract.  Cover  and  simmer  gently 
for  10  minutes.  Turn  into  heated  platter  and  serve  it  with 
Parmesan  cheese. 


OBLONG  POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 

6  potatoes;  2  tablespoons  water; 

2  eggs;  Salt; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  Flour. 

Boil  potatoes,  then  mash  them.  Add  ingredients  and  enough 
flour  to  stiffen.  Then  roll  with  hands  into  oblong  parts,  3  inches 
long;  place  these  in  a  spider  of  heated  butter  and  then  brown, 
and  just  before  serving  scramble  eggs  over  them. 

—Mrs.  E.  H. 


PEPPERS. 

With  Rice — 1  cup  cold  boiled  rice ;  2  tablespoons  cheese ; 
I  tablespoon  melted  butter ;  salt.  Remove  seeds  carefully,  not 
to  disturb  inner  wall  of  peppers.  Cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  let  stand  until  the  water  cools.  Mix  ingredients  and  stuff 
into  halved  peppers ;  cover  and  bake  J4  hour ;  then  uncover  un- 
til browned  on  top. 

With  Fish — Minced  fish;  1  tablespoon  bread  crumbs;  to- 
mato sauce ;  seasoning.  Fill  halved  peppers  with  minced  fish, 
well  seasoned,  and  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  crumbs  to  each 
cup.  Wet  with  tomato  sauce  and  strew  with  crumbs.  Also 
pour  sauce  about  peppers  in  the  baking  dish. 

63 


PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  OYSTERS. 

6  green  pepers  (large);  1  teaspoon  butter; 

1  pt.  oysters;  Cracker  crumbs; 

1  cup  milk;  1  or  more  teaspoons  flour. 

%  teaspoon  salt; 

Cut  top  off  peppers  and  clean  all  of  the  inside  out,  and 
stand  in  cold  salt  water.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  milk; 
put  it  on  stove  and  boil;  then  thicken  with  flour  mixed  in  a 
little  water  until  smooth.  It  should  be  the  consistency  of 
cream.  Drop  in  butter  and  salt  and  a  wee  bit  of  pepper.  Drain 
water  all  off  peppers  and  wash  in  fresh,  cold  water.  Place  in 
buttered  baking  dish,  and  fill.  First  a  little  cracker  crumbs, 
then  oysters,  then  cream  sauce,  cracker  crumbs,  oysters  and 
sauce  until  pepper  is  full.  Place  top  of  pepper  on  it  and  put 
in  oven  (moderate  oven)  for  about  20  minutes  or  half  an  hour. 
Serve  as  an  entree  or  a  vegetable. 

— L.  M.,  New  York. 


POTATO  FARCI. 

Select  even-sized  potatoes,  pare  and  cut  off  tops;  hollow 
out  centers  and  fill  with  chopped  meats  of  any  kind,  properly 
seasoned.  Set  in  a  pan  in  hot  oven  and  bake  until  done.  Wheij 
served,  add  a  spoonful  of  good  gravy  to  each  potato. 


POTATO  NOODLES. 

6  large  potatoes,  cooked  soft;         Pinch  Salt. 
2  eggs; 

Mash  potatoes  and  mix  with  eggs  and  salt.  Add  enough 
flour  to  roll  out.  Cut  like  wide  noodles.  Drop  into  boiling  water 
and  cook  for  15  minutes.  Drain  and  serve  with  bread  crumbs 
browned  in  butter  and  sprinkled  over  top  . 

— Mrs.  C.  Sunstien. 
64 


POTATO  PUFFS. 

Potatoes ;  2  eggs ;  milk ;  flour ;  salt.  Take  mashed  potatoes 
and  stir  into  them  the  eggs,  well  beaten;  beat  together  very 
light.  Then  add  a  little  milk,  salt,  and  just  enough  flour  to 
roll  into  balls.  Cook  as  doughnuts ;  drop  into  boiling  fat  just 
before  serving. 

Mashed  potatoes  left  over  from  the  day  before  can  be 

used. 

— Delia  Mayer  Lesser. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE  SAUCE. 

Potatoes;  Flour; 

%  lb  cheese;  Salt. 

1  cup  milk; 

Melt  J4  lb.  cheese  (any  hard  cheese)  ;  add  1  cup  milk  (hot)  ; 

thicken  with  a  little  flour.    Boil  and  mash  potatoes ;  add  salt,  and 

form  into  balls  and  serve  the  cheese  sauce  over  them ;  or  use  small 

new  potatoes  boiled  and  left  whole.     Fine ! 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

ITALIAN  RICE. 

Have  ready  ^4  cup  freshly  cooked  rice.  Put  into  a  stew- 
pan  1  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour.  Rub  together  until 
blended;  add  1  cup  grated  cheese;  1^  cups  hot  water  and  a 
pinch  of  annotto.  Stir  rapidly  and  when  perfectly  smooth 
spread  this  sauce  over  the  rice,  spread  on  a  shallow  serving 
dish.  Sprinkle  finely  grated  cheese  over  the  whole  and  serve 
hot  with  a  garnish. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

1  large  tablespoon  butter;  Pepper; 

1  large  tablespoon  flotir;  Nutmeg; 

1  qt.  milk;  Yz  lemon; 

Salt;  1  tablespoon  grated  onion. 

Melt  the  buttfer;  stir  in  flour;  then  add  milk  and  other 
ingredients.  Let  boil  until  it  thickens;  then  add  juice  of  J^ 
lemon,  pour  the  mixture  over  cold  boiled  potatoes  which  have 
been  cut  in  dice  and  bake  in  oven  Yz  hour. 

— Delmonico's,  New  York. 
65 


SOUTHERN  SWEET  POTATOES. 

2  lbs.  sweet  potatoes;  1   cup  brown  sugar. 

2  cups  water; 

Peel  and  slice  potatoes  which  have  been  parboiled.  Put  in  but- 
tered pudding  dish.  Pour  over  syrup  made  of  water  and  sugar. 
Dot  with  pits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Carrie  B.  Goodrich. 


SPAGHETTI  AND  MEAT  BALLS. 

10c.  worth  hamburger  steak;  4  sprigs  parsley; 

1  egg;  Salt; 

2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs;  Pepper. 
1   onion; 

This  mixture  is  rolled  into  small  balls.  In  the  meantime,  a 
sauce  must  have  been  prepared  after  the  following  receipe :  1  can 
tomatoes;  1  green  pepper;  1  onion;  2  bay  leaves;  1  pt.  water;  1 
tablespoon  butter;  salt;  pepper.  Extract  seeds  from  peppers. 
These  ingredients  boil  together  for  1  hour,  after  which  they  are 
pressed  through  a  colander  and  this  must  boil  up  once  more. 
Then  add  butter  and  seasoning.  Into  this  sauce  the  meat 
balls  are  placed,  and  in  it  they  are  permitted  to  boil  gently  for 
40  minutes.  They  are  then  served  with  spaghetti,  which  has 
been  prepared  after  the  following  fashion  :  1  lb.  spaghetti ;  2 
qts.  water;  1  tablespoon  salt.  Boil  spaghetti  in  the  water  for 
20  minutes.  After  it  has  been  thoroughly  drained,  pour  over 
it  the  tomato  sauce,  in  which  the  meat  balls  were  boiled,  and 
serve  the  combination  very  hot,  with  a  liberal  supply  of  grated 
Roman  cheese  on  the  side. 

— Mrs.  William  Klee. 

SWEET  POTATOES— O'BRIEN.      " 

6  sweet  potatoes;  3  green  peppers.  Parboil  large  sweet 
potatoes  and  remove  all  seeds  from  the  peppers ;  put  potatoes, 
cut  in  dice  shape,  and  cut  up  peppers  in  small  pieces;  fry  a 
dark  brown,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Adolph. 
66 


STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 

Egg  plant;  Mushrooms; 

Onion;  Cream  dressing; 

3  hard-boiled  eggs;  Bread  crumbs; 

Red  pepper;  Sweet  breads; 

Salt;  Sherry  . 

Scoop  out  the  egg  plant  and  place  pulp  in  salt  water  for 
iy2  hours.  Then  drain  and  boil  tender.  Mix  with  the 
chopped  eggs,  onion,  seasoning  and  mushrooms  (sweetbreads 
are  a  nice  addition)  to  taste.  Mix  all  this  with  a  nice,  smooth 
cream  dressing,  and  refill  the  shell  of  plant.  Sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  oven,  allowing  sufficient  time  to 
thoroughly  heat  the  shell,  or  the  mixture  will  take  on  a  raw 
taste.  Sherry  is  optional,  but  improves  the  dish.  Never  use 
tin  utensils  for  an  egg  plant. 

— Mrs.  A.  Leo  Weil. 


STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Sweet  peppers;  Onion  juice; 

Chicken  or  veal;  Salt; 

Bread  crumbs;  Pepper. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  peppers,  remove  seeds  and 
parboil  15  minutes;  fill  with  equal  parts  cold  chicken  or  veal  and 
softened  bread  crumbs ;  season  with  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper ; 
cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  10  minutes.  Serve  on 
toast  with  a  brown  gravy. 

TOMATOES— CORN-STUFFED. 

For  corn  custard  in  tomatoes,  scoop  out  the  centers  of  a 
half  a  dozen  apple-shaped  tomatoes,  drain  them  and  fill  with 
the  following  mixture :  Beat  2  eggs  slightly ;  add  a  cup  of  cold 
boiled  corn  cut  from  the  ear,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  a 
tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk,  salt  and  pep- 
per.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  15  minutes,  or  until 

the  custard  is  firm. 

67 


STUFFED  TOMATOES, 

6  tomatoes  (medium  size);  Tomato  pulp; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  Salt; 

54  cup  chopped  chicken  or  veal;  Pepper; 

H  cup  bread  crumbs;  1  egg. 
Vi  tablespoon  chopped  onion. 

Wipe  and  remove  thin  slice  from  stem  end  of  tomatoes ;  take 

out  seeds  and  pulp ;  sprinkle  inside  with  salt ;  invert  and  let  stand 

Yi   hour.     Cook  5   minutes,  butter,  finely-chopped  onion;  add 

finely  chopped  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  stale  bread  crumbs, 

tomato  pulp,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Cook  5  minutes; 

then  add  1  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  cook  1  minute,  and  refill 

tomatoes  with  mixture;  place  in  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with 

buttered  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

TOMATOES  AND  EGGS. 

Hollow  out  tomatoes;  break  into  each  a  whole  egg; 
sprinkle  with  seasoning;  set  them  in  a  pan  containing  a  little 
water,  and  bake  40  minutes.  Serve  each  on  toast  with  cream 
sauce  poured  over. 

— Mrs.  Julian  Boehm. 

YELLOW  BEANS  IN  CREAM. 

1  cup  sour  cream;  A  little  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt. 

2  eggs; 

Clean  and  break  the  beans  and  boil  them.  Beat  the  cream 
with  the  eggs ;  add  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  over  the 
beans  and  let  it  boil  a  minute.    Serve  cold. 

— Mrs.  Jos.  Prince,  Cleveland. 

SWEET  POTATO  AND  ALMOND  CROQUETTES. 

Bake  Y^  peck  sweet  potatoes ;  remove  the  pulp  and  put 
through  sieve.  To  each  2  cups,  add  scant  teaspoon  salt;  2 
tablespoons  butter;  1  beaten  egg;  3  tablespoons  chopped, 
blanched  almonds,  and  enough  hot  milk  or  cream  to  make  a 
paste  of  a  good  handling  consistency.  Form  into  shape,  egg 
and  crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

— H.  S.  K. 
68 


HOW  TO  COOK  RICE. 

2  qts.  water;  1  tablespoon  salt. 

1  cup  rice; 

Put  the  water  into  a  very  large  pot  and  put  salt  in  it.  When 
it  is  boiling  hard  take  a  spoon  and  stir  it  so  that  water  keeps 
circling.  Drop  a  little  rice  iu  at  a  time,  so  that  the  water  keeps 
boiling  and  moving  in  a  circle  around  the  kettle.  This  rice  is 
cooked  in  20  minutes.    Drain  water  off  and  serve. 

—Miss  L.  M.,  New  York. 


69 


MEMORANDUM 


70 


MEMORANDUM 


71 


MEMORANDUM 


72 


LD 


re55m 


ARTICHOKES  A  LA  RUSSE. 

Fond  artichoke;  Can  of  macedoine. 

Make  a  base  of  the  artichoke ;  place  on  top  either  a  sHce  of 
tomato  or  onion ;  then,  on  top  of  that,  macedoine  and  caviar ;  pour 
over  all  French  dressing. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Kaufman. 

ANCHOVY  SALAD. 


Anchovies; 

Beets; 

Olive  oil; 

Paprika; 

Hard-boiled  egg; 

Vinegar; 

Parsley; 

Take  as  many  anchovies  as  desired;  bone  and  clean  them; 
dress  with  plenty  olive  oil,  pepper,  salt,  vinegar  and  paprika.  Add 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  parsley  and  beets.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

— N.  Y. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  TOMATO  BORDER. 

Can  tomatoes;  Gelatine; 

Asparagus  tips;  Mayonnaise. 

Make  a  tomato  jelly  with  canned  tomatoes,  by  boiling  and 
straining  the  tomatoes  and  adding  sufficient  dissolved  gelatine 
to  hold  same  together.  Pour  into  a  border  or  ring  mold,  and 
set  away  to  form.  Turn  mold  on  a  large  flat  chop  plate,  and 
fill  center  with  asparagus  tips,  canned,  or  cooked  and  chilled. 
Put  mayonnaise  on  top  just  as  the  salad  is  about  to  be  served. 
Any  kind  of  garnish  is  nice  with  this,  and  any  other  salad  or 
relish  may  be  used  to  fill  the  tomato  ring. 

73 


BEET  AND  CHEESE  SALAD. 

Make  cottage  cheese  into  balls ;  stick  on  either  side  half 
English  walnut.  Slice  small,-  sweet  beets  and  put  two  cheese 
balls  and  three  beet  slices  on  lettuce  leaf.  Keep  on  ice  until 
just  before  time  to  serve.  Add  French  dressing  just  before 
serving.  This  is  such  a  simple  salad  and  so  tasty  that  you  will 
be  sure  to  like  it. 


CHICKEN  MOUSSE, 

3  eggs;  4  oz.  cold,  stewed  chicken  breast; 

1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine;       1  cup  cream. 
114  cup  chicken  broth; 

Chop  or  grind  (the  latter  is  preferable)  the  chicken;  soak  the 
gelatine  in  J4  cup  chicken  broth ;  beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs ;  add  a 
cup  of  scalded  chicken  broth  and  cook  as  custard.  Add 
strained  gelatine  and  ground  chicken.  When  cool,  add  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  a  cup  of  whipped  cream. 
Serve  in  individual  molds,  with  celery  and  mayonnaise.  This 
is  sufficient  for  12  portions. 

— Mrs.  Pauline  Floersheim. 


CHICKEN  SALAD. 

1  large  stewing  chicken;  1  large,  tart  apple; 

2  cups  chopped  celery;  54  cup  chopped  walnuts. 
1  lb.  grapes; 

Cook  chicken  until  very  tender ;  cut  up  all  the  meat ;  skin  and 
stone  the  grapes ;  cut  the  apple  into  small  pieces ;  chop  the  celery 
and  nuts.  Mix  all  together  and  season  to  taste  with  paprika, 
salt,  olive  oil  and  malt  vinegar.  Cover  the  bowl  and  allow  to 
stand  for  3  hours.  Just  before  serving,  mix  some  mayonnaise 
through  the  salad.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  ma5'^onnaise 
over  the  top.  Mix  the  mayonnaise  with  either  soiir  cream  or 
whipped  cream,  to  soften  it. 

—Mrs.  Ch.  Dreifus. 
74 


CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

Stew  the  cauliflower  till  tender,  after  separating  into 
flowerets  and  after  chilling,  head  into  hollowed-out  tomatoes. 
Place  each  tomato  on  a  plate  of  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with 
mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  just  before  serving. 

COMBINATION  SALAD. 

3  large  tomatoes;  6  stalks  celery; 

1  large  Bermuda  onion;  2  green  street  peppers. 

Cut  tomatoes  into  large  dice;  slice,  onion  thin;  dice  celery 
and  peppers  (being  careful  to  remove  seeds)  ;  pour  good  French 
dressing  over  all;  mix  and  allow  to  stand  for  several  hours  be- 
fore serving  in  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

CRAB  MEAT  GLACE. 

Ipt,  crab  meat;  Celery  salt; 

1  cup  boiled  rice;  Pepper; 

1  can  tomatoes;  1  tablespoon  gelatine. 

Vi  grated  onion; 

Stew  tomatoes  soft  and  strain ;  have  rice  boiled  very  soft  and 
crab  meat  shredded ;  mix  above,  adding  gelatine  and  seasoning 
and  mould  into  individual  forms.'  Serve  with  following  dress- 
ing, boiled;  1  cup  milk;  2  teaspoons  cornstarch;  yolk  of  1 
^%Z\  1  teaspoon  butter;  lemon  or  vinegar  to  taste;  when 
cooled,  add  J4  c"P  chopped  nuts,  J4  cup  chopped  olives  and  a 
small  quantity  of  chopped  parsley. 

—Mrs.  F.  G.  K. 

CREAM  CHEESE  SALAD. 

%  cup  finely  chopped  olives ;  1  large  Philadelphia  cream  cheese ;, 

Mix  these  together  with  a  little  butter  and  cream  if  nec- 
essary and  form  into  tiny  balls ;  roll  each  ball  in  finely  chopped 
parsley  and  serve  three  or  four  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  mayon- 
naise. 

75 


CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

3  cucumbers;  Yi  teaspoon  onion,  grated; 

1  cup  water;  1  teaspoon  vinegar; 

1  pinch  celery  salt;  Salt  (a  little). 
Dash  of  cayenne; 

Boil  the  sliced  cucumbers  till  tender  enough  to  pass 
through  a  wire  strainer;  to  this  puree  add  the  v/ater; 
heat  and  dissolve  a  little  gelatine  with  this  mixture;  add  the 
seasonings  and  turn  into  a  ring  mould;  when  unmoulded  fill 
the  center  with  cubes  of  tomato  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 


FILLED  BREAD. 

1  loaf  bread;  1  doz.  small  vinegar  pickles; 

Yi  lb.  tongue  or  ham;  1  doz.  olives; 

J4  lb.  Swiss  cheese;  5^  tb.  sweet  butter. 

3  hard  boiled  egges; 

Chop  ingredients  fine;  cream  butter  and  add.  Hollow  out 
loaf  of  bread ;  fill  in  with  mixture ;  wrap  loaf  in  damp  cloth  and 
place  in  ice  box  over  night.    Slice  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

— New  York. 


JELLIED  CHICKEN. 


1  chicken; 

Bay  leaf; 

1  tablespoon  gelatine; 

Salt; 

J4  cup  cold  water; 

Pepper; 

Juice  Yi  lemon; 

Celery. 

Onions; 

Boil  chicken,  with  all  spices  in  the  broth,  until  it  is  perfectly 
tender;  then  remove  the  chicken  and  boil  down  broth  until  one 
pint,  then  add  the  gelatine,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  J/^  cup 
cold  water,  and  juice  of  J^  lemon.  Pick  the  chicken  into  small 
pieces,  and  half  fill  individual  cups  with  the  meat;  then  fill 
up  with  the  broth  and  strain  and  set  on  ice  to  jell.  When 
ready  to  serve  remove  from  cups  to  a  lettuce  leaf.  Good  with 
or  without  a  mayonnaise. 

— Sophia  T.  Fleishman. 
76 


FROZEN  CHEESE  SALAD. 

1  cream  cheese;  Paprika,  salt,  lemon  juice,  to  taste. 

54  cup  cream; 

Rub  well  together  and  put  in  fancy  mold;  pack  in  ice  and 
salt  until  stiff.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve  on  lettuce,  with  French 
dressing. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Kaufmann. 


HERRING  SALAD. 

1  good  sized  apple;  1  doz.  Holland  herring  (milchner); 

2  large  onions;  J4  teaspoon  ground  pepper; 
1  lemon;                                                  2  large  dill  pickles; 

J4  cup  chopped  walnuts;  IJ^  pts.  cider  vinegar; 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  J^  doz.  whole  pepper  and  allspice; 

Soak  herring  24  hours,  remove  skin  and  bone  and  dice  these 
and  other  ingredients;  add  milchner  well  chopped  and  sugar  to 
the  vinegar,  and  mix  and  add  all  together. 

—Miss  Goldsmith. 


MIXED  SALAD. 

Chicory  salad  as  a  foundation ;  place  on  top  a  large  sized 
slice  of  tomato ;  on  that  an  ice  cold  poached  egg ;  then  a  dab 
of  chili  sauce;  cover  with  French  dressing  (made  of  three 
tablespoons  of  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  and  well 
stirred) ;  around  the  salad  arrange  macedoine  mixed  with 
French  dressing. 

LEFT-OVER  SALAD. 

6  small  onions;  1  pt.  peas. 

1  carrot; 

Boil  above  ingredients ;  cut  up  4  cold  boiled  potatoes ;  cut  the 
carrot  into  dice.  Mix  with  onions  and  peas.  Cover  with  cream 
sauce.    Garnish  with  sliced  eggs.    Set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

— Miss  Maltinsky. 
77 


OYSTER  SALAD. 

3  hard  boiled  eggs;  1  pt.  oysters; 

Y-i  tb.  boiled  fish;  3  stalks  celery; 

1  boiled  potato;  3  pickles. 

Cut  all  ingredients  into  small  pieces ;  flake  the  fish  and 
serve  as  desired  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

POTATO  SALAD. 


1  large  bunch  parsley; 

Salt; 

2  small  green  onions; 

Pepper; 

Radishes  (a  few); 

Paprika; 

1  doz.  potatoes; 

Vinegar; 

Mayonnaise; 

Olive  oil. 

Celery; 

Chop  to  a  powder  the  parsley,  onions  and  celery ;  boil  tender 
the  potatoes,  pare  and  cut  into  slices  while  hot,  and  add  first  in- 
gredients, also  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to  taste ;  also  add'  finely 
cut  celery.  Pour  heated  vinegar  over  this  and  also  some  fine  olive 
oil,  and  mix  well  with  two  silver  forks.  Then  add  sufficient 
mayonnaise  to  make  the  salad  look  yellow.  Serve  on  lettuce  and 
garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  and  hearts  of  lettuce.    Delicious. 

—Mrs.  G.  E.  Crone. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD. 

Potatoes;  Pecans; 

Celery;  Cream  dressing. 

Eggs  (hard  boiled) ; 

Take  equal  quantities  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  ^ 
in.  cubes;  celery,  pecans,  whites  of  the  eggs  and  mix  with 
cream  dressing;  place  on  lettuce  leaves  with  grated  yolks  of 
eggs  on  top. 

SALAD  PIQUANTE. 

J4  cup  chopped  olives;  2  tablespoons  chopped  pimentos. 

1  small  Philadelphia  cream  cheese; 

Rub  cheese  with  a  little  butter,  till  smooth ;  mix  in  olives  and 

pimentos  and  roll  into  very  small  balls;  roll  these  in  very  finely 

chopped  parsley  and  serve  3  or  4  in  a  nest  of  lettuce  hearts  with 
mayonnaise. 

78 


SPANISH  SALAD. 

2  qts.  diced  celery;  1  tomato,  diced; 
Chopped  onion   (a  little). 

1  qt.  flaked  salmon  (boiled  or  canned); 

Season,  and  mix  with  mayonaise.  Fill  cleaned  peppers  and 
cool. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD. 

Beans;  Salt; 

Onions;  Vinegar. 

Pepper; 

String  and  wash  your  beans  well;  boil  them  until  tender; 

then  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes  or  else  put  them 

into  a  colander  and  let  cold  water  run  over  them ;  let  them  drain 

off  well  and  mix  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  chopped  onions  and 

vinegar. 

—Mrs.  A.  J.  DeRoy. 

STUFFED  CELERY  SALAD. 

Take  Neufchatel  or  ■  cottage  cheese,  English  walnuts, 
chopped  fine,  and  have  ready  celery,  cut  about  two  inches 
long.  Fill  celery  with  this,  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise over  it. 

SWEET  BREAD  SALAD. 

3  eggs;  2  tablespoons  sugar; 
1  teaspoon  mustard;  2  tablespoons  butter; 
Salt;  V2  pt.  cream; 

54  cup  vinegar;  4  sweet  breads; 

Red  peppers;  1  can  green  peas. 

J4  cup  milk; 

Boil  off  your  sweet  breads  in  salted  water  and  skin  them ; 
beat  well  together  the  yolks  of  eggs,  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
sugar  and  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter ;  then  boil  in  a  scant  ^ 
cup  of  vinegar,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  Coleman's  mustard ; 
boil  smooth,  pour  into  the  eggs  and  then  add  the  milk  and 
return  all  to  stove  in  a  double  boiler  to  boil  until  a  thick  cus- 
tard.    Just  before  serving  whip  in  the  cream  and  the  green 

peas.    This  makes  quite  a  quantity. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 
79 


TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD. 

1  can  tomatoes;  -3  hard  boiled  eggs; 
Yi  cup  finely  cut  boiled  ham;  Salt; 

1  cup  water;  Paprika. 

H  cup  peanuts; 

Boil  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  mash  through  a  wire 
strainer ;  add  water  and  use  this  mixture  hot  to  dissolve  a  suffi- 
cient amount  of  gelatine ;  season  rather  highly  with  salt  and  papri- 
ka and  mix  in  the  other  ingredients  when  the  gelatine  is  beginning 
to  form ;  when  ready  to  serve  unmould  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve 
with  mayonnaise.    Fine. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

54   box   Knox  gelatine  (scant);       1  bay  leaf; 

y^  cup  water  (cold);  2  cloves; 

1  can  tomatoes;  Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper; 

H  Onion;  Salt  (pinch); 

1  stalk  celery;  Sugar   (pinch). 

2  tablespoons  vinegar; 

Soften  gelatine   5   minutes   in  the   water;   cook   all   other 

ingredients  except  vinegar  10  minutes,  then  add  gelatine  and 

vinegar;  stir  until  dissolved,  then  pass  through  fine  sieve  to 

keep  seeds  back.     Pour  in  mould  and  put  on  ice;  when  stiff 

turn  out,  garnish  with  lettuce  and  pour  mayonnaise  dressing 

over  it. 

— Mrs.  Nathan  Liebshutz,  Cleveland. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

Apples  (tart);  Celery; 

Walnuts;  Cream  dressing. 

Use  equal  parts  apples  in  cubes,  walnuts  and  celery  and  mix 

with  a  cream  dressing  and  arrange  in  nests  on  lettuce  leaves. 

— Mrs.  Meyer  Fink. 

WITH  THE  SALAD  COURSE. 

Stuffed  olives  chopped  fine,  mixed  with  a  cream  cheese 
and  made  into  balls  or  shaped  into  a  loaf  to  be  served  with 
a  cheese  knife,  form  a  delicious  accompaniment  to  the  salad 
course. 

80 


SALAD  DRESSING. 

That  witty  divine,  Sydney  Smith,  wrote  the  following 
directions  for  a  salad  dressing,  which  those  who  have  tried 
praise  highly : 

Two  boiled  potatoes  strained  through  a  kitchen  sieve. 

Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give; 

Of  mordant  mustard  take  a  single  spoon — 

Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon ; 

Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault 

To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 

Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 

And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town; 

True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 

The  pounded  yellow  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Let  onion's  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl. 

And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole ; 

And  lastly,  in  the  favored  compound  toss 

A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 

Oh,  great  and  glorious !    Oh,  herbaceous  meat ! 

'T would  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 

Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul 

And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

2  hard  boiled  eggs,  (yolks);  Cayenne  pepper; 

2  raw  eggs,  (yolks);  %  cup  oil; 

}i  cup  butter;  1-3  cup  vinegar; 

1  teaspoon  mustard;  Juice  of  lemon. 
1  teaspoon  salt; 

Put  yolks  hard  eggs  through  sieve;  add  salt,  mustard  and 
cayenne  pepper;  cream  butter,  and  yolks  raw  eggs  and  then  the 
hard  boiled  mixture;  have  oil,  vinegar  and  lemon  in  3  dififerent 
cups ;  add  1  teaspoon  oil,  then  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  vinegar,  oil, 
lemon  juice  and  vinegar  until  used  up.  Beat  with  Dover  egg 
beater  when  making  dressing,  and  when  stirririg  it  stir  one  way. 
Keep  tasting  to  see  that  it  doesn't  get  too  sour. 

— Miss  Belle  Mayer,  Bradford,  Pa. 
81 


BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 

4  eggs  (yolks);  4  tablespoons  vinegar; 

Yz  cup  butter;  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

1  teaspoon  mustard; 

Mix  eggs  and  butter  thoroughly;  scald  mustard  with  a  little 

hot  water;  put  all  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  until  thick;  beat 

until  cold;  before  using  thin  with  J-a  cup  of  cream  and  juice 

of  Yt.  lemon. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Lipman. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  cup  weak  vinegar;  1  egg; 

2  teaspoons  flour;  1  teaspoon  salt; 

2  teaspoons  mustard;  1  teaspoon  sugar; 

2  parts  whipped  cream  to  1  part  salad  dressing; 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  with  vinegar;  pour  slowly  over  the 

beaten  egg  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  smooth; 

stand  away  to  cool ;  when  using,  mix  in  the  proportion  of  1  part 

dressing  to  2  parts  cream.    This  dressing  is  especially  good  for 

fruit  salads. 

—Mrs.  John  X.  Smith,  Watertown,  N.  Y. 

FROZEN  CREAM  CHEESE. 

Jar  of  red  Bar-le-duc;  Small   Philadelphia  cream   cheese; 

Yi  pt.  whipped  cream. 

Mix  together;  have  mould  wet  with  cold  water;  put  in  the 

mixture  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours.    Serve  with  crackers 

with  the  salad  course. 

— New  York. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

4  eggs  (yolks);  1  teaspoon  salt; 

8  tablespoons  olive  oil;  2  teaspoons  mustard; 

4  tablespoons  vinegar;  Yi  cup  sweet  cream. 
2  teaspoons  sugar; 

To  the  yolks  of  eggs  add  four  spoons  of  oil  and  vinegar ;  then 

boil.     Stir  until  it  thickens,  remove  from  fire,  continue  stirring 

until  it  cools.    Then  slowly  add  four  more  spoons  or  oil  and  the 

other  ingredients. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kingsbacher. 

82 


MAYONNAISE. 

4  eggs;  Dry  mustard  (a  little); 

2  lemons;  Celery  salt. 

Cayenne  pepper; 

Stir  well  yolks  of  eggs ;  add  juice  of  lemons,  pepper  and  cel- 
ery salt  and  a  knife-tip  of  mustard;  mix  all  together. 
Put  piece  of  butter  like  large  egg  in  douible  boiler,  when 
melted  add  the  mixture,  stir  constantly  and  when  thick  as  custard, 
remove  from  stove ;  when  ready  to  use,  thin  out  with  cream.  This 
is  iine. 

— Mrs.  Gus  Kaufman,  New  York. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

3  eggs;  2  teaspoons  mustard; 

2  teaspoons  salt;  Yi  cup  vinegar; 

2  teaspoons  sugar;  Butter  size  of  walnut. 

Beat  eggs  light,  then  beat  all  together  and  cook  over  hot 
water,  stirring  all  the  time;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  take 
off  fire,  and  when  cool,  thin  with  cream  or  milk  or  use  oil  and 
heat  well. 

— Emma  Porter  Makinson. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  teaspoon  Coleman's  mustard;  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar; 

1  teaspoon  Salt;  6  tablespoons  olive  oil; 

1  teaspoon  pepper;  4  tablespoons  vinegar; 

1  onion,  chopped  fine;  1  green  pepper,  chopped  very  fine. 

Mix  mustard,  salt,  pepper  and  sugar ;  stir  in  oil  and  then  the 
vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the  onion  and  pepper;  let  stand  a  half 
hour  before  serving.  Remove  the  seeds  from  the  green  pepper 
and  always  chop  pepper  and  onion  separately  and  then  mix. 

— Mrs.  Enoch  Rauh. 


83 


MEMORANDUM 


84 


MEMORANDUM 


85 


MEMORANDUM 


88 


FATHER'S  RECIPE. 
By  Frederick  Moxon. 

We  hear  a  lot  of  mother's  cakes 

And  sister's  lemon  pie; 
Of  gingerbread  that  gran'ma  makes, 

And  auntie's  doughnuts, — my! 
But  father's  got  a  recipe 

He  says  beats  all  the  rest ; 
And  when  it's  mixed  O.K.,  says  he. 

It  suits  his  palate  best. 

Some  lie-abed-till-nine-o'clock. 

Some  breakfast-up-to-ten ; 
A  shirt-sleeve-stroU-around-the-block, 

A  shave,  a  pipe,  and  then 
A  pile  of  Colored  Supplements, 

With  frequent  dozings  off — 
Those  are  the  chief  ingredients 

Of  father's  Sunday  loaf. 


ALMOND  PUDDING. 

Bake  a  three-layer  rich  gold  cake.  Put  sliced  peaches  be- 
tween first  and  second  layer.  Frost  second  layer  and  put  on 
it  macaroons  and  almonds.    Frost  the  third  layer.    To  be  eaten 

cold  with  brandy  sauce. 

— Mrs.  Samuel  G.  Rosenstock. 
87 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Peel  and  core  apples;  fill  with  gooseberry  preserves,  or 
grated  apples,  raisins  and  almonds.  Roll  apples  in  sugar, 
then  in  a  thin  pie  crust  and  bake  slowly.  Icing :  1  cup  sugar ; 
Yi  cup  water;  1  egg.  Boil  sugar  and  water  and  stir  into  the 
beaten  white  of  the  egg.    Pour  over  apples  and  eat  with  cream. 

— Mrs.  Herman  Cerf. 

APPLE  STRUDEL. 

2  or  3  cups  flour;  Apples  peeled  and  sliced  small. 

1  cup  butter  or  fat; 

Mix    flour    with    water    and    knead    into    a    loose    flabby 

dough.     Place    dough    in    center,    pull    and    spread    thin    as 

tissue  paper   until   it  covers  the  table.    Spread  the   apples   all 

over  the  dough,  then  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  sugar,  raisins 

and  hot  butter  or  fat.     Take  one  end  of  cloth  and  roll  the 

dough  until  it  meets  the  other  end.     Like  a  jelly  roll.     Cut 

in  small  pieces,  put  in  oven  and  bake  until  brown.     Serve 

plain  or  with  cream. 

BOILED  PUDDING. 

Yi,  lb  butter;  4  eggs  (whites  to  froth); 

1  large  cup  bread  crumbs;  54  lemon  (juice  and  rind); 

6  tablespoons  sugar;  }4   teaspoon  cloves; 

1  smalf  wine  glass  rum;  Citron,  almonds  and  raisins  chopp 

1  wine  glass  white  wine;  ed  fine; 

1  cup  milk;  Vanilla  essence. 

Boil  in  pudding  form  Ij^  hours.      Very  fine. 

— New  York. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Iqt.  milk;  Butter,  size  of  an  egg; 

4  eggs;  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

1  cup  sugar; 

Rub  yolks,  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream ;  stir  in  milk  grad- 
ually; add  bread  crumbs;  beat  thoroughly;  pour  into  mold; 
sprinkle  with  cinnamon;  bake  for  1  hour  until  brown;  take  out, 
cover  with  meringue  made  from  the  whites;  bake  for  a  few. 
minutes ;  serve  with  rich  cream. 

88 


BROWN  BETTY. 

Apples,  sugar,  cinnamon,  bread  crumbs,  butter.  A  layer 
of  apples,  one  of  bread  crumbs,  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon 
and  melted  butter  until  pan  is  filled.  Bake  for  two  hours  and 
serve  with  Fairy  sauce. 

—Mrs.  Sig.  S.  Klein. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

10c  candied  cherries;  1  doz.  macaroons; 

1  cup  chopped  almonds;  7  eggs; 

1  tumbler  claret  wine;  2  tablespoons  gelatine. 

Put  claret  on  to  boil;  stir  yolks  of  eggs;  sugar  to  taste; 

soak  gelatine  in  cold  water ;  add  all  ingredients  to  wine,  beaten 

whites  last.     Pour  over  dish  lined  with  macaroons,  cherries 

and  almonds.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  Edward  M.  Lazarus. 

CHERRY  PUDDING. 

4  cups  of  flour;  2  eggs; 

1  cup  of  sugar;  1  teaspoon  of  Baking  powder. 

2  cups  milk; 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  milk ;  then  cherries  and 
last  flour  and  baking  powder ;  place  in  a  steamer  or  close  boiler 
and  steam  for  2  hours.    Serve  with  Fairy  butter. 

Fairy  Butter — 1  cup  butter ;  2  cups  powdered  sugar.  Beat 
until  light ;  flavor  with  sherry  wine  or  vanilla. 

—Mrs.  S.  S.  Klein. 

CHERRY  PUDDING. 

Line  deep  pan  with  pie  crust;  sprinkle  crust  lightly  with 
flour  or  matzo  meal ;  fill  with  cherries  (fresh  preferred) ; 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  almonds.  Bake  25  minutes.  Cover 
with  sponge  made  as  follows: 

Yolks  3  eggs,  beaten  with  1J4  cups  sugar; 

Juice  of  Vi  lemon ;  Whites  beaten  to  stiff  froth ; 

Grated  rind;  Lastly,3  tablespoons  flour. 

— Anon. 
89 


CABINET  PUDDING. 

Stale  cake  or  lady  fingers;  3  cups  sweet  milk; 

1  cup  seedless  raisins;  3  eggs; 

Vz  cup  cleaned  currants;  Yi  cup  sugar; 

3  oz.  citron,  cut  fine;  Lemon   extract. 

3  02.  candied  cherries; 

Butter  and  sugar  a  pudding  mould  holding  3  pts.  Mix  rai- 
sins, currants,  citron  and  cherries.  Cover  bottom  of  mould  with 
layer  of  mixed  fruit,  then  cake,  then  fruit,  and  so  on.  Make 
a  custard.  Boil  on  stove  until  slightly  thick,  being  careful 
not  to  curdle.  Then  pour  over  cake  in  mould.  Put  in  water 
and  boil  2  hours.  Turn  out  on  platter  and  serve  with  red 
jelly.  Serve  with  wine  sauce.  May  also  be  baked  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  1  hour  by  placing  mould  in  a  large  shallow  pan 
half  full  of  water. 

C.  S.  F. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

S  eggs;  J4  It),  grated  chocolate; 

I  lemon;  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

1  cup  sugar; 

Beat  well  yolks  of  eggs;  add  sugar,  the  chocolate 
and  bread  crumbs  and  last  beaten  whites  of  eggs; 
mix  and  place  in  well  greased  pudding  form ;  tie  lid  down  and 
boil  in  large  sauce  pan  of  water  for  Ij^  hours.  Serve  with 
vanilla  or  lemon  sauce. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kornhauser. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

S  eggs;  J4  cup  chopped  nuts; 

1J4  cups  sugar;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 

Yz  cup  finely-sifted  bread  crumbs;  Grated  rind  1  lemon; 
J4  cup  grated  chocolate;  Juice  J4  lemon. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  until  light ;  add  all  ingredients,  and 
lastly  stiffen  beaten  whites.  Boil  lJ/$  hours  in  mould.  Serve 
with  any  sauce  desired. 

—Mrs.  E.  Frank. 
90 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

i  cup  butter ;  1  scant  cup  flour ; 

1  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  cocoa; 

1  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
4  eggs ; 

Stir  butter  and  sugar,  beat  yolks  of  eggs  into  sugar,  add 
milk  and  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  then  flour  with  baking  pow- 
der stirred  in.  Bake  in  timbale  pan  and  fill  in  the  center  with 
whipped  cream.  Sauce  for  chocolate  pudding:  J4  cake  choco- 
late; I  cup  milk;  1  tablespoon  butter;  cook  until  thickens. 

Serve  over  pudding. 

Henrietta  S.  Ehrman. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

3  or  4  eggs;  54  c"P  sugar; 

1  cocoanut;  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Boil  cocoanut  in  its  own  milk  1  minute;  cream  yolks  of 
eggs  and  sugar;  add  flour  scalded  to  a  paste,  then  beaten 
whites.    Flavor  with  lemon  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

— Mrs.  H.  J.  Schwarz. 

COLD  COFFEE  PUDDING. 

1  pt.  whipped  cream;  2  tablespoons  gelatine; 

5^  cup  pulverized  sugar;  12  macaroons; 

4  eggs;  Vanilla. 
34  cup  coffee; 

Add  sugar  to  whipped  cream ;  beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a 

froth ;  add  strong  coffee  with  gelatine  soaked  a  time  in  it ;  beat 

a  while  and  add  to  cream;  add  a  little  vanilla  to  flavor;  beat  all 

together  and  mix  with  ground  macaroons;  put  in  mold  and 

stand  in  ice  box  until  firm. 

DELICIOUS  PUDDING. 

yi  lb.  of  butter;  5  tablespoons  of  vinegar; 

1  lb.  of  sugar;  Juice  of  1  lemon; 

9  eggs;  Flavor  with  lemon. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake;  add  the  eggs  and 

other  ingredients  after  filling  the  baking  dish  with  pie  crust 

and  bake  until  solid  in  the  center. 

— Mrs.  Minna  Weil. 

91 


DELICIOUS  EASTER  PUDDING. 

8  eggs;  1  lemon; 

Vi  It),  grated  potatoes;  Almonds; 

1  cup  sugar;  Salt. 

Stir  yolks  and  sugar;  add  handful  of  blanched  and 
and  pounded  nuts,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemon,  then  the 
potatoes,  which  should  be  boiled  in  jackets  day  before,  and 
last  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  greased 
pudding  dish,  set  in  pan  of  boiling  water  in  oven,  and  in  half 
hour  turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

— ^Mrs.  Louis  Blitz,   Detroit. 

DELMONICO  PUDDING. 

12  macaroons  or  lady  fingers;      '   Yz  wineglass  brandy  or  sherry; 
3  cups  milk;  1}^  tablespoons  powdered  gelatine; 

1  1-5  cups  sugar;  4  eggs. 

Lay  the  macaroons  in  mould,  rub  yolks  and  sugar  to 
cream,  add  milk  and  boil  in  double  boiler;  dissolve  gelatine 
in  cold  water  and  mix  with  boiled  mixture;  add  stiffly  beaten 
whites  and  lastly  the  flavoring.  Pour  over  the  cakes  in  mould ; 
put  in  ice  box  over  night. 

—Mrs.  E.  Frank. 

ENGLISH  WINE  PUDDING. 

2Sc  macaroons  and  lady  fingers;     powdered  sugar; 
1  cup  wine;  Whole  cinnamon; 

Y2  cup  water;  Almonds; 

3  eggs;  Citron 

Line  pudding  dish  with  cakes;  leaving  out  five  maca- 
roons for  top  decoration;  put  wine  and  water  in  a  saucepan 
with  the.  yolks  of  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  enough  to  sweeten, 
and  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon ;  let  this  boil,  and  then  pour  over 
cakes ;  then  beat  whites  of  eggs ;  sweeten ;  when  the  wine  mix- 
ture is  cool,  put  the  whites  on  the  pudding.  Decorate  with 
almonds,  cut  lengthwise,  citron  and  macaroons.  Put  in  hot 
oven  about  five  minutes  to  brown. 

—Mrs.  J.  H.  Marks. 
92 


ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

lib.  seeded  raisins  (not  seedless);  6  eggs,  beaten; 
1  lb.  sultana     "  j^  pt.  milk; 

1  lb.  currants;  Pinch  salt. 

1  lb.  beef  suet  chopped  fine;  ^4  lb.  flour; 
I  lb.  bread  crumbs; 

%  lb.  candied  lemon  peel,  citron  and  orange  peel; 

2  teaspoons  mixed  spices  (ground); 

Flavor  with  orange  or  lemon  extract;  steam  eight  or  nine 
hours  in  well  greased  moulds.    This  will  make  two  puddings. 


FIG  PUDDING. 

1  lb  beef  suet;  1  lemon,  the  grated  rind  only; 

1  lb.  bread  crumbs;  Salt; 

1  lb.  brown  sugar;  1  lb.  figs. 
5  eggs; 

Chop  figs  very  fine,  shred  suet  to  a  powder,  mix  all  ingre- 
dients, beating  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately  and  using 
just  a  little  salt ;  boil  three  hours  in  a  mould.  Serve  the  follow- 
ing hard  butter  sauce : 

yi  cup  butter ;  1   teaspoon  vanilla ; 

2  whites  of  eggs;  1  tablespoon  brandy. 
1  cup  sugar; 

Beat  until  stiff. 

Mrs.  Jonas  Meyer,  Quincy,  111. 


FIG  PUDDING. 

J4  lb  butter;  2  cups  bread  crumbs; 

1  cup  sugar;  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon; 

2  eggs;  %  lb.  figs  chopped  fine; 
1  tablespoon  molasses;  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  and  stir  until  light; 
add  molasses  and  other  ingredients  in  order  named  and  boil  3 
hours. 

— New  York. 
93 


FRUIT  PUDDING. 

H  cup  suet;  2  sour  apples; 

54  cup  raisins;  i  lemon  rind; 

54  cup  currants;  54  teaspoon  cloves; 

54  cup  sugar;  }4  teaspoon  salt; 

54  cup  dry  bread  crumbs;  6  eggs; 

54  cup  citron;  1  gill  brandy. 

Grate  the  lemon  rind  and  chop  apples;  mix  all  together, 
steam  4  hours  in  buttered  mould;  turn  out  and  pour 
J4  cup  brandy  over  and  serve  with  sauce.  Sauce:  4  table- 
spoons butter ;  2  eggs  (whites)  ;  1  cup  powder  sugar ;  1  gill 
brandy;  1  gill  boiling  water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then 
add  whites  of  eggs  beating  constantly.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  brandy  and  water,  stirring  over  boiling  water  until  light 

and  creamy. 

Mrs.  Aaron  DeRoy. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

1  can  peaches;  Sugar; 

1  pt.  milk;  Vanilla; 

1  doz.  macaroons;  2  teaspoons  cornstarch; 

3  eggs;  1  doz.  almonds. 

Drain  the  peaches  and  place  in  dish  in  which  pudding  will 
be  served.  Cover  fruit  with  macaroons ;  mix  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  with  the  milk;  sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste;  2  teaspoons 
cornstarch;  cook  in  a  double  boiler;  when  nearly  cold  pour 
this  mixture  over  fruit;  beat  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  table- 
spoon of  powdered  sugar,  and  put  this  on  top ;  blanch  a  dozen 
almonds,  stick  into  the  whites  of  eggs  and  brown  a  few  min- 
utes in  the  oven.  In  season  fresh  strawberries  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  peaches. 


Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 


FROZEN  PUDDING. 


1  pt.  cream,  whipped;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

Yolks  4  eggs,  beaten  light;  54  cup  candied  cherries  and  nuts; 

54  cup  powdered  sugar;  1-3  cup  sherry  wine. 

Cream  yolks  and  sugar,  add  vanilla  and  fruit ;  fold  in  whip- 
ped cream ;  pack  in  ice  and  salt  until  frozen. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Kann. 
94 


FROZEN  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

6  oz.  chocolate;  lyi  pts.  whipped  cream; 

%  pt.  water;  J^  tb.  chopped  nuts. 

4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar; 

Boil  chocolate  in  water  with  sugar  until  thick  and  smooth. 
When  cold,  mix  with  whipped  cream  and  nuts.  Pour  into 
mould  and  bury  in  cracked  ice  for  4  hours. 

— Mrs.  Gus  Kaufman. 


GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Icup  milk;  yi  cup  molasses; 

1  egg;  1  teaspoon  soda  (dissolved); 

Finch  of  salt;  2  cups  graham  flour; 

}4  cup  sugar;  1  cup  raisins. 

Mix  in  order  given  and  steam  three  hours. 

— Miss  Smit. 


GRATED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

8  grated  tart  apples;  1  lemon  (juice  and  rind); 

8  eggs;  1  handful  chopped  almonds; 

8  tablespoons  granulated  sugar;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
3  tablespoons  matzos  meal; 

Cream  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  add  other  ingredients, 
beaten  whites  last.  Bake  in  a  spring  form  in  a  moJe/ate  quick 
oven.    This  is  a  fine  Passover  dish. 

—Mrs.  H.  J.  Scl^warz. 


HASTY  PUDDING. 

2  eggs;  1  cup  flour; 

1  cup  sugar;  Any  flavoring. 

J4  cup  hot  water; 

Beat  yolks  with  sugar,  add  water,  flour  and  flavor- 
ing ;  lastly  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Line  pudding  dish  with  any 
kind  of  fruit;  pour  batter  over  and  bake  in  slow  oven.  Serve 
with  any  kind  of  sauce. 

— Mrs.  Morris  Adler. 
95 


LEMON  PUDDING. 

1  qt.  milk;  Vi  doz.  matzos; 

2  eggs;  Wz  cups  sugar; 
Butter;                                                    1  lemon. 

Roll  fine  the  matzos  and  mix  with  milk;  yolks  of 
^&&s,  Yz  cup  sugar,  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  lemon  rind 
grated.  Bake  slowly.  Frost  the  pudding  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  eggs,  juice  of  lemon  and  one  cup  sugar; 
spread  on  pudding  when  baked  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

—Mrs.  R.  R. 


MACAROON  PUDDING. 

6  eggs;  ^  cup  strong  sherry; 

1  cup  sugar;  Vi  box  gelatine  or  1  oz. 

1  pt.  milk;  J4  lb.  macaroon. 

Stir  yolks  and  sugar  light  (while  doing  this  milk  to  boil 
and  soak  gelatine  in  sherry),  mix  into  sugar  mixture,  add  milk 
and  put  in  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to 
boil,  pour  into  bowl,  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  crushed 
macaroons ;  wet  mould  and  pour  in  mixture  and  set  on  ice 
for  4  hours.    Serve  with  whipped  cream.    Fine. 

— New  York. 


NEW  BREAD  PUDDING. 

4  slices  bread;  J4  cup  chopped  nuts; 

1  pt.  milk;  J^  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs; 

3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  square  chocolate  (grated); 

Boil  bread  in  milk,  mash  well,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  choco- 
late, nuts,  bread  crumbs  and  vanilla ;  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Grease  the  pudding  mould  and  pour  in  the  mixture; 
steam  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  plain 
cream. 

—Mrs.  Fred  Wolf. 
96 


NUT  PUDDING. 

7  eggs  (beaten  separately);  7  tablespoons  grated  almonds; 

7  tablespoons  sugar;  Vanilla. 

Sprinkle  1  tablespoon  flour  over  whites ;  put  in  moulds  and 
steam  1  hour.    Serve  with  cream. 

— Mrs.  J.  Prince,  Cleveland. 


PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

1  can  pineapple;  4  eggs; 

Juice  of  lemon;  1   tablespoon  cornstarch. 

J4  cup  sugar; 

If  chunks  or  slices  are  used,  cut  quite  small.  After  taking 
out  fruit  from  can,  fill  can  with  water,  add  it  to  the  juice.  If 
shredded  pineapple  is  used,  then  take  a  whole  can  of  water. 
Put  pineapple,  juice,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  on  to  boil.  When 
tender,  thicken  with  cornstarch.  After  taking  from  the  fire, 
let  cool,  then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  When  light, 
add  the  beaten  whites,  put  in  baking  dish,  and  bake  about  IS 
minutes,  when  it  will  be  set. 

— B.  W.  K,  St.  Joseph,  Mo. 


PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

2  cups  milk;  4  eggs; 

2  cups  sifted  flour;  2  tablespoons  butter. 

J4  cup  powdered  sugar; 

Boil  milk  with  butter.  Add  flour  and  sugar  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Remove  from  stove,  cool,  and  add,  one  by  one,  yolks 
of  eggs,  beating  steadily.  Whip  whites  very  stifif,  then  stir  in. 
Butter  and  sugar  a  mould  holding  lj4  quarts.  Put  a  layer  of 
batter  in  mould,  then  a  layer  of  finely-sliced  canned  or  stewed 
pineapple,  and  so  on.  Boil  on  top  of  stove  for  3  hours,  or  bake 
in  oven  in  pan  of  water  from  1  to  1^  hours.  Serve  with  fruit 
sauce. 

— C.  S.  F. 
97 


PEACH  MACAROON  PUDDING. 

12  stale  macaroons;  1  pt.  milk; 

1  can  sliced  peaches;  1  tablespoon  cornstarch; 

Powdered  sugar;  20  blanched  almonds; 

3  eggs;  Yi  iteaspoon  vanilla. 

Break  12  macaroons  in  pudding  dish,  cover  with  peaches, 
add  powdered  sugar.  Make  custard  of  yolks  of  eggs,  milk  and 
cornstarch,  and  pour  while  hot  over  peaches.  Beat  whites 
stiff,  add  vanilla,  put  over  custard  and  put  almonds  through 
top  and  put  in  oven  to  brown. 

— Amelia  H.  Cohen. 

PEACH  PUDDING. 

1  can  of  peaches,  or  if  fresh  1  quart; 

Yi  cup  white  wine;  4  eggs; 

1J4  cup  sugar;  Grated  rind  of  Yi  lemon; 

1  doz  blanched  almonds;  Whipped  cream. 

Take  peaches,  pare  and  stone  them.  Put  on  to 
stew  in  the  wine,  and  J4  cup  sugar;  add  the  almonds. 
When  the  peaches  are  tender  and  wine  has  cooked 
syrupy,  pour  into  a  pudding  pan,  and  pour  over  them  the  fol- 
lowing: Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  %  cup  sugar  until 
light;  add  the  grated  lemon  rind  and  Yi  the  stiffened  whites. 
Pour  over  peaches  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  light 
brown.  Then  cover  with  the  remaining  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
stiff,  with  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Brown  lightly  again.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

— C.  S.  F. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

1  qt.  bread  crumbs;  Yz  cup  citron,  cut  fine; 

Yz  lb.  suet,  chopped  fine;  4  eggs; 

1  ft.  raisins;  Y^  teaspoon  nutmeg; 

1  ft.  currants;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1  cup  sugar;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  milk  or  water; 

Steam  3  hours  or  longer  in  a  well-greased  mould,  and 
serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

— Mrs.  Max  Solomon,  Beaver  Falls. 
98 


PLUM  PUDDING. 

1  jar  canned  plums;  2  tablespoons  butter; 

2  cups  flour;  54  cup  milk; 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder;             3  eggs. 

J4  teaspoon  salt; 

Mix  flour  with  baking  powder;  add  salt,  eggs,  milk  and 
butter.  Roll  on  bread  board  about  1  inch  thick ;  strain  plums 
through  colander  and  place  in  center  of  dough  and  close. 
Place  pudding  in  mold  and  steam  1%  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce,  also  the  juice  of  plums,  heated  with  a  little  sugar  and 
cinnamon. 

— Daisy  H.  Levy. 


PRUNE  PUDDING. 

1  lb.  prunes;  1  cup  pecan  meat; 

1  cup  sweet  chocolate;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

Yz  cup  sugar;  7  eggs  (whites  only.) 

Stew  the  prunes  the  day  before  using  them;  remove  the 
pits  and  mash  the  prunes,  using  but  little  of  the  juice. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients,  (the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff), 
and  put  in  a  mold  and  boil  in  water  for  3  hours.  The  mold  should 
only  be  half  full,  as  the  pudding  rises  to  the  top  of  the  mold. 
Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  whipped  cream. 

— Carrie  Heilbronner,  Fort  Wayne,  Ind. 


RICE  PUDDING. 

Butter  (size  of  egg) ;  1  lemon  (juice) ; 

1J4  cups  sugar;  2  teaspoons  vanilla; 

4  eggs;  1  cup  rice  . 

Boil  rice  soft  in  milk  and  cool ;  cream  butter,  sugar  and  yolks 
of  eggs,  add  juice  of  lemon,  vanilla,  rice,  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
arid  bake  ^  hour.    Serve  with  or  without  sauce.    Palatable. 

—Mrs.  J.  Weil. 
99 


SCOTCH  PUDDING. 

2  teaspoons  gelatine;  12  almonds; 

1  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar;  J^  pt.  cream; 

IS  macaroons;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  milk  (just  enough  milk  to  cover  it),  then 

strain.    Blanch  almonds,  then  cut  them  very  fine ;  roll  macaroons, 

and  whip  cream.  Mix  macaroons,  almonds,  sugar  and  vanilla  into 

cream.    Put  in  form  and  then  in  refrigerator  to  harden. 

— Mrs.  Sam  Kaufman. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

15-2  cup  suet,  chopped  fine;  1  cup  molasses; 

1   cup  raisins;  1  teaspoon  soda; 

1  teaspoon  salt;  Flour  to  stiffen. 

Steam  for  3  or  4  hours. 

Sauce  for  Su«t  Pudding. 

Yi  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

Yi  cup  water;  Juice  of  1  lemon; 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  all  together.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

— Mrs.  Herman  Mayer. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  J^  cup  butter  and  2  cups  powdered  sugar ; 
add  1  pt.  mashed  strawberries.    Serve  with  cottage  pudding. 

— ^Mrs.  John  Smith,  Watertown. 

CHEESE  PIE. 

lj'2  lb.  cottage  cheese;  3  eggs; 

Large  piece  of  butter;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

Yi  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Line  spring  form  with  rich  pie  crust.  Rub  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream ;  drop  in  one  at  a  time  yolks  of  3  eggs ;  add 
vanilla  and  flour.  Rub  Ij^  lbs.  cottage  cheese  through  very 
fine  sieve  ,and  moisten  well  with  cream.  Mix  all  together  and 
add  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  crust,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ^  hour. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Dreifus. 
100 


COCOANUT  PIE. 

1  large  cocoanut,  grated.  1  lemon  (juice) ; 

2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  water,  or  milk  of  cocoanut. 
4  eggs; 

Bake  pie  crust  as  for  any  pie.  Cream  sugar  and  yolks  of 
eggs ;  add  other  ingredients,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last. 
Enough  for  two  pies. 

—Mrs.  Minna  Weil. 


CREAM  PIE. 

1  pt  .whipped  cream;  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar. 

Y-i  teaspoon  vanilla; 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  pastry  and  bake.    Fill  with  cream 
and  dot  with  dark  jelly. 

— H.  S.  K. 


ENGLISH  GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

Use  a  deep  pudding  dish.  Line  sides  with  pie  crust  (none 
on  bottom).  Fill  the  dish  generously  with  large  gooseberries 
that  have  been  properly  picked.  Put  in  sugar  enough  to 
sweeten;  sprinkle  a  little  water  on  top;  cover  with  crust. 
Bake  1  hour.    Serve  with  rich  cream. 

— Mrs.  Josiah  Cohen. 

FRIED  APPLE  PIES. 

Prepare  apples  in  slices,  as  for  ordinary  pie,  and  boil  soft, 
but  do  not  break  pieces.  Drain  the  wJtter.  Roll  a  pie  crust 
rather  thin,  cut  into  good-sized  pieces,  and  place  a  spoonful  of 
apples,  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  each  slice,  and  fold  over  and 
press  edges  together  with  a  fork.  Drop,  these  into  boiling 
deep  fat  till  light  brown ;  lift  and  cover  with  pulverized  sugar. 

//  housewives  who  dislike  to  find  zvorms  when  cutting  apples 
would  first  put  the  fruit  in  cold  water  they  would  find  that  the 
worms  zvould  leave  the  apples  and  come  to  the  surface  of  the 
water. 

101 


GRATED  APPLE  PIE. 

3  eggs;  %  cup  cream; 

54  cup  sugar;  1  lemon  (grated  rind); 

1  cup  apple  (grated);  Raisins  (seedless). 
Almonds  (grated)  ; 

Beat  until  creamy  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  grated 

apple;  mix  well,  then  add  the  cream  and  the  rind  of  small 

lemon,  a  few  grated  almonds  and  a  few  raisins.    Line  pie  pan 

with  rich  pastry,  pour  in  mixture  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 

until  light  brown;  then  spread  top  with  meringute  made  of 

whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  6  level  tablespoons  sugar. 

Brown  lightly.    Very  fine. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Adolph. 


LEMON  PIE. 

Juice  of  2  lemons;  5  eggs. 

^  cup  sugar; 

Cream  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  add  lemon  juice- 
Boil  until  thick  in  double  boiler.  Pour  over  stiffly-beaten 
whites  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  crust  which  has  been  baked.  Set 
in  oven  until  it  browns. 

— Mrs.  H.  Jonas. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Crust — 1  cup  butter;  lj4  cup  flour;  work  together  well 
with  1  egg.  Put  this  en  your  pie  pan,  and  while  it  is  baking 
prepare  custard. 

Custard — 12  eggs ;  1  cup  sugar ;  4  lemons.  Bea,t  six  whole 
eggs  and  yolks  of  remaining  6  (leaving  6  whites  for  meringue), 
with^cup  sugar;  add  rind  of  1  lemon  and  juice  of  4.  Boil  in 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Add  custard  to  crust  and  bake  for  5 
minutes.  Beat  the  remaining  6  whites  with  ^  cup  sugar ;  put 
on  top  of  pie,  and  bake  light  brown. 

—Rachel  C.  Rauh. 
102 


LEMON  PIE. 

Pie  paste;  S  eggs; 

3  lemons;  Salt; 

2  cups  sugar;  Milk. 

Spread  the  thinly-rolled  pie  paste  over  the  pie  plate;  let  it 
bake  half  through,  and  cool  off.  Make  the  following  filling: 
Beat  5  yolks  of  eggs  with  2  cups  powdered  sugar,  until  they 
show  air  bubbles.  Add  a  tablespoon  milk  and  the  juice  of  3  _ 
lemons ;  lastly,  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  are 
beaten  to  a  snow.  Mix  all  well  together,  put  on  the  pie  crust, 
then  place  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  filling  loses  its  ten- 
dency to  flow.  Should  it  brown  before  this  is  the  case,  lay  a 
piece  of  brown  paper  lightly  over  it.  When  baked,  let  it  re- 
main in  the  tin  for  a  few  minutes  before  removing  it  to  the 
plate.    The  spring  form  is  the  best  for  baking  lemon  pies. 

— Mrs.  A.  J.  DeRoy. 

LEMON  PIE. 

4  lemons;  1  large  piece  of  butter; 

2  cups  sugar;  2  tablespoons  cornstarch; 

Pinch  salt;  2  cups  water. 

Make  a  nice  pie  crust.  Take  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
lemons,  add  sugar,  a  little  salt,  butter;  stir  well  and  add  corn- 
starch and  water.    Boil  in  double  boiler.     Put  the  beaten  whites 

of  eggs  on  top  and  brown. 

— Mrs.  Jonathan  A.  Perley. 

STRAWBERRY  PIE. 

1}4  cup  flour;  2  tablespoons  butter   (heaping); 

}i  teaspoon  salt;  1  qt.  strawberries  (fresh); 

J4  teaspoon  baking  powder;  2  or  3  eggs  (whites). 

Make  pastry  of  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  butter  and  enough 
water  to  make  a  stiflf  dough ;  then  line  the  pie  pan,  prick  an^bake. 
Have  ready  strawberries,  sugared;  after  crust  is  baked;  put  in 
the  berries  and  make  a  meringue  of  beaten  whites  df-^ggs  and 
tablespoon  sugar  and  place  on  top;  then  brown.    Very  fine, 

— Mrs.  M.  Kornhauser. 
103 


STRAWBERRY  PIE. 

Pie  crust;  1  cup  granulated  sugar; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  2  eggs; 

2  qts.  strawberries;  2  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar; 
1J4  teaspoon  cornstarch;  J4  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Line  a  pan  with  rich  pie  crust  and  bake.     Wash  and  then 

hull  2  qts.  nice  strawberries.    Cover  with  a  cup  granulated  sugar, 

and  simmer  together  for  10  minutes.    Add  butter,  rubbed  smooth 

with  cornstarch,  and  cook  3  minutes.    When  cool,  fill  the  shell. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  dry.    Add  pulverized  sugar  and 

vanilla  and  beat  well.     Heap  this  meringue  over  the  pie  and 

brown  in  moderate  oven.    Fine! 

— ^Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufman. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE. 

2  eggs;  1  tablespoon  flour; 

1-3  cup  butter;  1  tablespoon  brandy  and  nutmeg. 

J^  cup  sugar; 

Cream  all  together,  put  in  crust,  bake  from  15  to  20  minutes. 
Put  beaten  whites  on  top  and  brown. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Lipman. 

VICTORIE  PIE. 

1  pt.  milk;  J4  tt)-  sugar; 

5  eggs;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch;  Cinnamon. 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil ;  thicken  with  the  cornstarch,  and  add 
butter.  Beat  eggs  separately  and  add  to  the  yolks,  %  lb.  sugar, 
light  weight.  When  the  milk  is  cool,  put  all  together  and  season 
with  a  little  cinnamon.  Place  mixture  in  pie  pan,  which  has  been 
lined  with  crust,  and  put  into  oven  to  brown.    Serve  brown. 

— Mrs.  Philip  Hart,  New  Orleans,  L,a. 

IMPROVING  PASTRY. 

Pastry  of  all  kinds  is  improved  by  keeping  for  a  few  hours 
in  a  cold  place  before  baking.  It  is  made  more  flaky  by  fre- 
quent rollings,  and  the  addition  of  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

104 


BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

1  qt.  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

4  tablespoons  butter;  2  cups  cold  milk. 

Roll  the  pastej^  inch  thick,  cut  in  squares  and  place  thereon 
an  apple  cut  in  quarters  and  pared,  filled  with  cinnamon,  a  piece 
of  butter  and  brown  sugar.  Lay  in  buttered  pans  and  bake. 
Enough  for  twelve. 

Sauce — 2  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  water ;  a  little  cinnamon.  Boil 
until  it  is  like  syrup. 

— Mrs.  J.  Rogaliner. 


BERLINER  PFANN  KUCHEN. 

Make  a  good  kuchen  dough,  not  too  stiff,  roll  and  cut  with 
a  biscuit  cutter.  Place  some  jelly  or  preserves  in  center,  size 
of  a  walnut ;  brush  the  edge  with  white  of  Q%g,  and  cover  with 
another  round  of  dough.  Permit  them  to  raise  light  on  a  well- 
floured  board,  and  cook  in  deep  boiling  butter  or  oil  until  a 

nice  brown.  Fine. 

—Miss  B.  S. 

GUGELHOPSOR  BUNDKUCHEN. 

1  cup  warm  milk; 

1   cake   Fleishman's  yeast,   soaked  in  some  of  this  milk; 

Pinch  of  salt; 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Stir  up  well  and  let  raise. 

Sift  2  cups  flour  in  a  bowl.  Make  hole  in  flour ;  pour  in 
yeast  and  rest  of  warm  milk;  make  a  light  batter  of  this  and 
let  raise  in  a  warm  place. 

Rub  1  cup  butter;  1J4  cups  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  grated 

rind  of  Lemon ;  4  whole  eggs.    Beat  until  light ;  add  the  batter 

and  beat  again  until  very  light ;  add  1  cup  flour  and  beat  well 

again.    Batter  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  cup  cake.    Pour 

into  well-greased  mold  and  let  raise  again.    Bake  in  moderate 

oven  for  %  hour. 

— Mrs.  B.  May. 

105 


BUND  KUCHEN. 

1  cake  yeast;  7  eggs; 

2  cups  flour;  1  cup  sugar; 
1  cup  milk;  Flour; 

Mix  and  set  to  raise,  as  a  sponge;  1  lemon. 
H  cup  butter; 

Beat  well  the  butter  and  sugar  for  half  an  hour;  add 
gradually  the  thoroughly-mixed  eggs,  and  allow  2  tablespoons 
flour  to  each  egg,  and  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon.  Then 
add  the  sponge,  mix  well,  and  put  in  form  to  raise.  Bake  slow- 
ly for  1  hour,  covering  the  cake  with  paper  upon  first  placing 
in  the  oven. 

— Mrs.  Morris  Kingsbacher. 


BUND  KUCHEN. 

1J4   It)'  butter;  1  doz.  grated  almonds; 

5  eggs;  Some  lemon  rind; 

Yi  lb  sugar,  good  weight;  Bit  of  salt. 
154  yeast  cakes ; 

Use  sufficient  warm  milk  to  absorb  2  large  wooden  flour- 
spoons  of  flour  (or  about  1^  pints)  ;  dissolve  yeast  and  mix 
into  flour;  then  the  remaining  ingredients.  Beat  with  the 
hand  for  ^  hour;  then  line  the  greased  baking  form  with 
halves  of  almonds,  and  fill  about  one-half,  placing  away  to  raise 
for  the  night.    Next  morning,  bake  1  hour. 

— Mrs.  Louis  Schwarz. 


CHEESE  TARTS. 

Yi  lb.  butter;  J4  lb.  flour; 

Yi  lb.  cheese  (cottage  cheese) ;        Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  the  cheese  and  butter  together  until  smooth;  then  add 
the  flour  and  roll.  Mold  in  form  of  pockets,  and  bake  from  5 
to  7  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Jackson. 
106 


CREAM  PUFFS. 

1  cup  water;  S  eggs; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  1  cup  flour. 

J^  cup  butter; 

In  a  cup  of  water  put  the  butter,  and  let  come  to  a  boil ; 
then  mix  the  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  boiling 
water,  stirring  it  in  smooth  and  set  oH  to  cool.  Then  add  three 
whole  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two ;  beat  thoroughly  and  cool  well, 
and  drop  a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  into  a  pan  and  bake  slowly. 

For  Filling — Use  2  eggs  and  make  a  cornstarch  cream, 
adding  milk  as  needed.  After  cakes  and  filling  are  cooled, 
open  top  of  puffs  and  insert  cream. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 


FILLED  TARTS. 

1  lb.  flour;  1  cup  sugar; 

2  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
J^  lb  butter;  Rind  of  1  lemon. 

3  tablespoons  cream; 

Mix  and  roll;  cut  into  squares,  and  fill  with  following  fill- 
ing; yi  lb.  brown  sugar;  butter,  size  of  egg;  2  tablespoons  milk. 
Boil  until  thick ;  then  add  1  cup  chopped  walnuts ;  1  cup  raisins ; 

little  vanilla.    When  cold,  fill. 

— Chicago. 


GERMAN  PANCAKES. 

4  eggs;  4  tablespoons  milk  or  cream; 

4  tablespoons  flour;  Salt. 

Beat  4  whole  eggs  very  light ;  then  add  4  tablespoons  sifted 
flour;  4  tablespoons  of  milk  or  cream,  and  pinch  of  salt.  Have 
hot  skillet  ready ;  grease  with  a  little  fresh  butter,  and  pour  batter 
in.    Put  it  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  as  soon  as  done.    This  makes 

a  pancake  for  two  people. 

— Mrs.  Aaron  Kingsbacher. 
107 


GERMAN  PFANN  KUCHEN. 

^  cup  flour ;  1  cup  milk ;  Yz  tablespoon  sugar ;  4  eggs ;  salt. 

Beat  all  together. 

— Mrs.  L.  Deutsch,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 

GERMAN  WAFFLES. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter;  8  tablespoons  sweet  cream; 
8  eggs;  8  tablespoons  flour. 

S  tablespoons  sour  cream; 

Mix  each  egg  with  1  tablespoon  sweet  cream,  sour  cream  and 
flour  until  8  eggs  have  been  used.    Beat  the  whites  and  mix  well. 
— Mrs.  L.  Deutsch,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 

LEMON  ROLL. 

5  eggs;  '  1  cup  granulated  sugar; 

1  cup  flour;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  whites  stiff;    stir  sugar    in    gradually;    yolks    next; 

then  flour  and  vanilla  and  bake  in  large  pan  in  moderate  oven. 

Turn  out  on  board ;  put  in  filling  and  roll. 

Filling — Stiff  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs;  1  cup  granulated 

sugar;  yolks  of  eggs;  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon.     Steam  in 

double  boiler. 

— Chicago. 

GOLDEN  BALL  FRITTERS. 

J4  cup  flour;  Grated  lemon  rind; 

3  level  teaspoons  butter;  2  eggs. 
Yi  cup  milk; 

Boil  flour,  milk  and  butter  until  it  leaves  the  sides  of  ihe 

pan ;  then  mix  in  lemon  and  eggs,  one  at  a  time.    Shape  with  two 

spoons  and  fry  in  deep  fat.    Serve  hot  with  pulverized  sugar. 

JELLY  OMELET. 

Beat  6  eggs  until  very  light;  add  salt  and  pepper;  pour 

into  buttered  pan ;  cook  until  omelet  is  set,  but  not  too  solid. 

Cover  one  half  with  jelly ;  fold  over  the  other  half ;  remove  to 

a  warm  platter ;  sprinkle  chopped  parsley  over  top.    Serve  at 

once. 

— Miss  Maltinsky. 

108 


NOODLE  AUFLAUF. 

Make  a  noodle  dough  of  4  eggs ;  cut  and  boil  in  milk,  with 
salt  added ;  drain  the  noodles.  Now  mix  yolks  of  4  eggs ;  J4 
Itj.  sugar,  and  %  lb.  butter  to  a  cream ;  lastly  add  the  beaten 
whites  and  the  noodle;  place  in  pudding  form  and  bake  a 
golden  brown. 

—Mrs.  J.  Black. 

OMELETTE  SOUFFLE. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  light;  %  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
whites  of  6  eggs ;  add  gradually  3  full  tablespoons  pulverized 
sugar,  and  beat  until  stiff.  Pour  over  this  the  yolks  and  mix 
carefully.  Place  in  escallop  or  small  dishes.  Sift  sugar  over 
top;  place  in  moderate  oven  from  3  to  5  minutes,  according 
to  size.    Serve  at  once. 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS. 

Soak  the  slices  of  pineapple  in  white  wine  or  any  liquor 
you  have,  with  a  little  sugar  added,  for  an  hour  before  using. 
Fry  in  batter,  as  you  would  apple  fritters. 

PLAIN  DOUGHNUTS. 

2  eggs;  3  cups  flour; 

1  cup  sugar;  4  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

1  lemon  (rind);  Pinch  salt. 

1  cup  milk; 

Beat  eggs  light;  then  beat  eggs,  sugar  and  grated  rind  of 
lemon  10  minutes;  add  milk,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  roll 
and  cut,  for  frying  in  a  deep  kettle  with  plenty  of  grease. 

—Mrs.  J.  Weil. 

RICE  PANCAKES. 
To  1  pint  of  boiled  rice  add  1  pint  milk  and  a  pint  flour; 
stir  2  thoroughly-beaten  eggs  into  the  batter ;  add  a  little  salt, 
and  fry  in  hot  butter.    Serve  with  maple  syrup. 

— Bessie  Cohen,  Cleveland. 
109 


PUFF  PASTE. 

2  cups  flour;  Pinch  of  salt; 

Few  drops  of  lemon  juice;  Ice   water. 

J4  cup  butter; 

Mix  the  flour  with  salt;  add  lemon  juice  and  suffi- 
cient ice  water  to  make  a  paste  of  about  the  same  con- 
sistency as  butter.  Roll  this  about  yi  inch  thick;  make 
the  butter  into  a  ball  and  place  on  half  the  paste;  fold 
remainder  over  and  press  edges  together.  If  warm,  place  on 
ice  for  10  minutes ;  then  roll  and  fold  in  three  parts.  Do  this 
three  or  four  times,  placing  on  ice  each  time  the  paste  becomes 
warm  or  soft.    It  may  then  be  made  up  in  any  desired  form. 

— Helen  K.  Leiberman. 

SNOW  BALLS. 

2%  cups  flour;  3  eggs; 

1  teaspoon  granulated  sugar;  Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg; 

1  teaspoon  white  wine;  Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  all  with  a  spoon  until  easily  handled.  Roll  out  very 
thin ;  cut  in  squares ;  slash  three  times  in  center,  and  fry  in  hot 
fat  until  brown  on  both  sides. 

—Mrs.  M.  Rothschild. 

STEFFIN. 

1  cup  chopped  suet;  3  eggs; 

3  cups  flour;  Cherry  or  red  raspberry  jam; 

1  lemon;  Sugar. 

Pounded  almonds  or  nuts  and  cinnamon; 

Make  a  dough,  to  be  rolled  out  as  for  a  pie,  out  of  suet, 
flour,  rind  and  juice  of  lemon,  and  eggs.  Spread  on  this  the 
jam.  Sprinkle  lavishly  with  nuts  and  cinnamon  or  almonds, 
and  cover  with  a  top  crust.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  granulated 
sugar.  Mark  in  squares  of  about  two  inches,  and  bake  a  del- 
icate brown.  Place  a  mixture  of  nuts  and  pulverized  sugar  on 
top.    Very  good. 

— Mrs.  M.  A.  Goodstone. 
110 


SNOW  BALLS. 

1  whole  egg;  1  tablespoon  sugar  and  a  little  salt. 

2  yolks  of  eggs; 

Mix  enough  flour  in  to  make  like  a  noodle  dough; 
work  well.  Roll  out  thin ;  cut  in  squares,  and  in  each  square 
make  three  little  cuts  in  center.  Bake  in  swimming  fat.  When 
done,  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

— Mrs.  Louis  Schwarz. 


TIMBALES. 

?4  cup  flour;  1  tablespoon  olive  oil; 

Yi  cup  milk;  J4  teaspoon  salt; 

1  egg;  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Mix  batter,  adding  milk  gradually  to  the  flour,  then  the  egg 
and  the  olive  oil.  Whip  with  an  egg  beater  until  perfectly  blen- 
ded. Heat  the  timbale  iron  in  hot  fat  and  dip  it  into  the  batter, 
then  into  the  fat  until  the  dough  is  brown. 


UP-TO-DATE  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Apples;  Raisins; 

Sugar;  Lemon  peel;. 

Make  a  rich  pie  crust ;  roll  out  thin ;  cut  in  squares  to  line 
muffin  rings;  grease  rings  and  line  with  squares,  letting  cor- 
ners hang  over  sufficient  to  form  top  later.  Chop  apples  and 
raisins  fine  in  a  bowl ;  mix  with  sugar  and  lemon  peel  to  taste. 
Fill  this  mixture  into  the  rings;  press  the  corners  of  squares 
closely  together  and  bake  a  deep  yellow.  When  baked,  remove 
to  a  dish  and  brush  top  of  each  dumpling  with  a  lemon  icing. 
To  be  eaten  with  cream. 

— Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufmann. 

In  stoning  raisins,  pour  boiling  water  on  them — then  pour 
it  off  quickly. 

Ill 


MEMORANDUM 


112 


MEMORANDUM 


113 


MEMORANDUM 


114 


^S5V^5 


APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

3  apples;  Sugar  to  taste; 

1  tablespoon  sherry;  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 
3  eggs  (whites); 

Grate  the  apples;  add  sugar  and  the  stiffly-beaten  whites; 
then  the  sherry.  Pile  the  whipped  cream  over  it  and  decorate 
with  Maraschino  cherries. 

APPLES  WITH  CUSTARD. 

8  apples;  1  cup  water. 

2  eggs;  J4  cup  pulverized  sugar; 
1  cup  sugar; 

Core  and  pare  apples ;  make  syrup  with  the  sugar  and  water ; 
cook  apples  in  it  until  tender,  3  or  4  at  a  time,  then  place  on  a  pan ; 
beat  whites  of  2  eggs  very  stiff,  and  add  %  cup  sugar;  place  a 
spoonful  on  top  of  each  apple ;  place  in  oven  to  brown. 

For  Custard — 1  pt.  milk;  1-3  cup  sugar;  yolks  of  2  eggs; 
J^  teaspoon  vanilla.  Scald  milk  and  add  beaten  yolks,  with 
sugar;  cook  until  it  thickens  a  little,  and  serve  cold. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kornhauser. 

APRICOT  SOUFFLE. 

14  cup  apricot  pulp;  Sugar  to  taste. 

3  eggs; 

Heat  fruit  pulp;  add  gradually  to  the  beaten  whites  of  the 

eggs,  and  continue  beating.     Turn  into  buttered  and  sugared 

molds  or  cups  until  ^  full.    Set  molds  in  pan  of  water  and  bake 

until  firm,  in  a  slow  oven.    Canned  peaches  can  also  be  used  as 

well  as  dried  apricots. 

— Estelle  Perley. 

115 


APPLE  CROQUETTES. 

Put  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  1  cup  stale  breadcrumbs 
and  Yi  cup  milk.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  smooth; 
then  add  1  large  apple,  chopped  fine,  and  a  dozen  almonds, 
ground;  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten  with  a  tablespoon  sugar; 
a  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  5^  lemon. 
Cook  until  thickened ;  then  turn  out  on  a  platter  to  cool.  When 
quite  cold,  form  into  croquettes;  roll  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat.  Serve  with  caramel  sauce,  maple  syrup  or 
powdered  sugar. 


APPLE  SPONGE. 

Line  pudding  form   with  stewed  apples.   Cover  with  a 

sponge  made  as  follows: 

6  eggs ;  1  cup  flour ; 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  yolks  with  sugar ;  add  vanilla  and  flour,  and  lastly  stif- 
fly-beaten whites.  Tie  lid  on  mold  securely,  and  steam  in  water 
Yi  hour.     Serve  hot,  with  cream. 

— Anon. 


BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

Gelatine;  3  eggs; 

1  pt.  cream;  2  teaspoons  sherry; 

1  cup  milk;  1  doz.  macaroons; 

Sugar;  Flavoring. 

Two  tablespoons  gelatine  are  soaked  in  1  cup  of  milk  until 
soft;  then  set  on  stove  to  dissolve.  Beat  1  pt.  cream,  sweetened 
to  taste,  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Stir  in  dissolved  gelatine ;  set 
vessel  in  ice  water  and  heat  till  thick.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
to  a  froth  and  stir  in  lightly  2  teaspoons  sherry,  and  1  dozen 
rolled  macaroons,  or  fruits  of  any  flavoring  desired.  Put  all  in 
form  and  pack  in  ice  to  congeal  . 

—Rachel  C.  Rauh. 
116 


BISCUIT  TORTONI. 

6  whole  eggs;  J^  cup  macaroons,  rolled  fine; 

1  cup  powdered  sugar;  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

Cream  yolks  and  sugar;  add  vanilla,  macaroons,  cream  and 
whites ;  beaten  stiff.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours. 

— Mrs.  H.  Jonas. 

CAFE  PARFAIT. 

%  box  gelatine;  1  cup  cream; 

J4  cup  cold  water;  1  pt.  cream; 

1  cup  clear,  strong  coflFee;  J4  cup  powdered  sugar; 

1  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  J4  hour;  pour  over  it  the 
coffee;  add  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Strain  and  let  cool. 
Whip  1  cup  cream;  add  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Put 
in  freezer  and  stir  until  quite  hard.  Whip  the  pint  of  cream, 
adding  the  sugar  and  flavor.  Pack  in  a  mold  with  a  j4-inch 
layer  of  the  coffee  mixture  on  the  outside,  and  filling  with 
whipped  cream.  Cover  with  coffee  mixture.  Pack  in  salt  and 
ice  at  least  2  hours. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Fink. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

1  cup  milk;  Pinch  salt; 

1  tablespoon  gelatine;  1  pt.  cream; 

2  eggs;  Lady  fingers; 

1  cup  sugar  (scant);  Maraschino  cherries. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  milk;  set  on  back  of  stove;  beat  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  with  the  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt ;  add  this  to  milk  and 
let  come  to  boil,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens;  then  cool 
and  add  double  cream,  whipped,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  stiff.  Put  all  in  a  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers  split  in 
two.  Put  on  the  ice  to  coot;  then  turn  on  a  platter,  and  decorate 
with  Maraschino  cherries. 

— Mrs.  Herman  Davidson,  Quincy,  111. 
117 


CHERRY  MERINGUE  PUDDING. 

(Kirschen  Auflauf.) 

1  lb.  fresh  cherries;  Macaroons. 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch; 

Pit  and  stew  cherries,  sweetened  and  thickened  with  corn- 
starch. Place  in  bottom  of  pudding  dish,  and  cover  with  a 
layer  of  macaroons. 

For  Lemon  Gxam — 

4  eggs  (yolks);  1  dessertspoon  cornstarch; 

Yi.  cup  cold  water;  2  lemons  (Juice  and  rind) 

1  cup  sugar; 

Boil  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Beat  whites 
and  when  lemon  and  cream  is  cool,  turn  in  whites,  and  pour 
this  over  cherries.  Bake  in  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Serve 
very  cold.    Peaches  can  also  be  used  this  way. 

— Mrs.  Geo.  Rothstein,  New  York. 

CHILDREN'S  DESSERT. 

8  oz.  rice;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

yi  package  white  gelatine;  1  teaspoon  Maraschino; 

54  pt.  thick  cream';  1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Soak  the  gelatine  and  cook  the  rice  in  the  milk.    Spread 

on  a  platter ;  stir  sugar  in  carefully ;  add  the  dissolved  gelatine, 

the  cream  (which  has  been  previously  whipped),  vanilla  and 

Maraschino.     Put  into  a  mold  and  let  stand  until  cold  and 

hard. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Kann. 

CHOCOLATE  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Yi,  02.  gelatine;  J4  Pt-  milk; 

1  pt.  sweetened  custard;  J4  pt-  whipped  cream. 

2  oz.  chocolate  powder; 

To  the  custard  add  the  gelatine,  soaked  in  milk,  and  the 
chocolate  powder.  Stir  until  thick,  but  do  not  let  boil.  Cool 
a  little  and  stir  in  the  cream.  Line  a  rtold  with  sponge  cakes 
and   chocolate   macaroons,     Pour   over   the  above   mixture. 

Enough  for  six  people. 

— Miss  Rosa  Kann. 
118 


COFFEE  CUSTARD  CREAM. 

1  pt.  cream;  3  eggs; 

Vz  cup  strong  coffee;  ^  cup  chopped  nuts; 

1  pt.  milk;  1  teaspoon  cornstarch; 

Yz  cup  sugar;  i^  cup  chopped  cherries. 

Mix  cream,  milk,  eggs,  sugar  and  cornstarch  together; 
beat  well  and  boil  until  slightly  stiff.  Add  cherries  and  nuts 
when  partly  cooked,  and  coffee  last.    Freeze. 

COFFEE  FRAPPE. 

1  cup  coffee;  2  eggs; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 

2  tablespoons  vanilla; 

Strain  strong  coffee;  add  gelatine;  heat  coffee  enough  to 
melt  gelatine ;  strain  through  fine  cloth  and  let  cool.  Add  sugar 
and  white  of  eggs;  then  beat  all  together  and  add  whipped 
cream.  Pour  into  form  and  freeze  3  hours.  Serve  with  whip- 
ped cream. 

COFFEE  MOUSSE. 

1  pt.  cream;  1  cup  coffee  (strong  and  boiled); 

Yi  package  gelatine;  1  cup  milk; 

1  cup  sugar;  2  eggs  (whites). 

Soak  gelatine  in  milk  ^  hour ;  add  boiled  coffee  and  sugar 
to  it,  and  strain,  then  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  when  this 
mixture  is  partly  thick  add  the  whipped  cream.  Put  in  mold 
to  cool  for  3  or  4  hours. 

— Mrs.  Morris  Kaufmann. 

COFFEE  MOUSSE. 

1  cup  strong  coffee;  Yolks  of  2  eggs; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 

Boil  together  the  coffee  and  sugar;  put  in  ^g%  yolks.  Stir 
well  and  cool  perfectly  before  adding  the  whipped  cream. 
Then  mold  and  freeze.    Drain  later  and  repack. 

— N.  York. 
119 


CORN  MEAL  SOUFFLE. 

1  pt.  milk;  1  teaspoon  butter; 

1  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  sugar; 

1  cup  corn  meal;  2  eggs. 

Let  milk  and  salt  come  to  a  boil;  stir  in  the  corn  meal, 
and  when  smooth,  remove  from  the  stove  and  add  butter  and 
sugar.  When  cooled,  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  beaten 
whites  before  putting  in  the  oven.     Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot 

oven  in  a  buttered  china  dish. 

— N.  Y. 


CORNSTARCH  CUSTARD. 

2  eggs;  y^  doz.  lady  fingers; 

Sugar;  Jelly  or  preserves; 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch;  Nuts; 

vanilla;  Cream 
1  qt.  milk; 

Beat  the  eggs  with  a  little  milk.  Mix  cornstarch  with  a  lit- 
tle water.  Mix  the  two  with  a  quart  of  milk  and  cook  all  slowly 
in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  to  prevent  lumping.  When  well 
cooked,  remove  from  fire  and  add  sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste. 
While  this  mixture  cools,  crumb  the  stale  lady  fingers  into  a 
dessert  dish.  Spread  with  pineapple  jelly  or  preserves.  Pour 
mixture  over  this  and  sprinkle  a  thick  layer  of  chopped  nuts 
over  top  of  the  pudding.  May  be  eaten  with  or  without  cream. 
Delicious ! 

—Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufmann. 

FROZEN  PUDDING. 

1  generous  pt.  milk;  2  tablespoons  gelatine; 

2  cups  sugar;  1  qt.  cream; 

Yi  cup  flour  (scant);  1  lb.  candied  fruit; 

2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Let  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  flour,  1  cup  sugar  and  eggs 
together,  and  stir  into  hot  milk.  Cook  20  minutes ;  then  add 
the  gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water  for  1  hour. 
When  cool,  add  sugar,  cream  and  vanilla.  Freeze  10  minutes ; 
then  add  fruit ;  finish  freezing  and  pack  for  2  hours. 

120 


FRUIT  PATTIES. 

1  cup  milk;  2  tablespoons  butter; 

1  egg;  1  pt.  flour; 

54  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  all  together,  as  for  cottage  pudding;  grease  the  gem 
pans ;  bake.  While  still  warm,  scoop  out  center  of  each  cake, 
and  when  cold  fill  with  fresh  berries  and  cover  with  whipped 
cream.    Makes  a  very  pretty  dessert. 


FRUIT  GELATINE. 

K  cup  sugar;  Juice  of  1  lemon; 

H  box  Cox's  gelatine;  Juice  of  2  oranges; 

1  pt.  water;  1  tablespoon  sherry. 

1  cup  chopped  figs,  raisins,  nuts  (English  walnuts  preferred); 

Maraschino  cherries,  if  desired; 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  then  add  1 
pt.  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly  dissolved,  strain.  Add 
sugar,  juice  of  lemon  and  oranges;  then  add  1  cup  of  figs, 
raisins,  nuts,  or  any  Qther  fruit  desired,  and  place  upon  the 
stove  allowing  it  to  come  to  a  boil.  Then  remove,  and  when 
cool  add  sherry  to  taste,  and  put  into  a  mold  that  has  been 
rinsed  in  cold  water.  Put  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  with  vanilla 
sauce. 

— C.  S.  F. 


HICKORY  NUT  SOUFFLE, 

6  eggs;  1  tablespoon  flour; 

1  cup  chopped  nuts;  Yi  pt.  whipped  cream; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  Rum. 

Stir  yolks  with  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  chopped  hickory 
nuts,  the  flour  and  beaten  whites.  Put  in  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  slowly  for  J^  hour.  When  cold,  flavor  the 
cream  with  rum,  or  other  flavoring,  if  preferred,  and  spread 

on  top. 

121 


ICED  DIPLOMATE. 

6  eggs;  6  lady  fingers: 

2  oz.  granulated  sugar;  1  qt.  whipped  cream; 

4  tablespoons  Maraschino;  vanilla. 

Stir  eggs  and  sugar  together  5  minutes ;  add  Maraschino ; 
put  this  on  in  a  double  boiler,  and  boil  5  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  thickens.  Cool  thoroughly ;  add  lady  fingers 
cut  into  small  dice.  Sweeten  whipped  cream;  flavor  with 
vanilla ;  mix  well ;  put  into  a  3-qt.  melon  form,  pack  in  ice 
and  salt  at  least  3  hours. 

MACAROON  CREAM. 

1  tablespoon  gelatine;  1-3  cup  sugar; 

,'4  cup  cold  water;  2-3  cup  ground  macaroons; 

2  cups  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

3  eggs; 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk, 
yolk  of  eggs,  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  dissolved  gela- 
tine. Cool;  then  add  macaroons  and  flavor,  stirring  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  thicken.    Add  beaten  whites  of  eggs.    Mold 

and  chill  garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

— Estelle  Perley. 

MACAROON  TRIFLE. 

Yi  pt.  double  cream;  1  level  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar; 

1  coffeecup  fine  almonds;  1  tablespoon  sherry, 

macaroon  crumbs; 

Whip  cream  as  stilif  as  possible ;  chill.    Just  before  serving, 

add  the  remaining  ingredients. 

Serve  in  Sherbet  cups. 

—Mrs.  John  X.  Smith,  Watertown,  N.  Y. 

MAPLE  CREAM. 

^  cup  maple  syrup;  1  pt.  cream; 

Yolks  of  3  eggs;  H  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Cook  syrup,  eggs  and  cream  until  smooth ;  cool ;  add  nuts, 
and  freeze. 

— H.  S.  K. 
122 


MACAROONS  WITH  LEMON  CUSTARD. 

Macaroons;  2  lemons; 

2  eggs;  Ij^  cups  water; 

1  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

Line  a  dish  with  macaroons.  Beat  together  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  the  sugar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  water,  and  the 
cornstarch,  dissolved.  Put  into  double  boiler  and  stir  until 
thick.  Then  povir  this  over  the  macaroons,  the  beaten  whites 
on  top,  and  put  into  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

— Mrs.  G.  E.  Crone. 

MAPLE  CREAM  PUDDING. 

1  cup  maple  syrup;  1  pt.  whipped  cream; 

3  eggs;  Pecans; 

1  teaspoon  gelatine;  Macaroons. 

Boil  the  syrup  and  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
After  well  mixed  put  back  on  stove  and  beat  for  a  few  minutes 
on  the  fire.  When  cold,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  the 
whipped  cream.  Add  a  few  chopped  pecans  and  macaroons. 
Put  in  mold  to  freeze. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

Yz  cup  maple  syrup ;  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 

4  eggs  (yolks  only); 

Bring  the  syrup  to  a  boil,  and  while  hot  pour  over  the 
beaten  yolks.  While  this  cools,  beat  the  pint  of  cream.  Mix 
all  together,  pour  into  mold  and  pack  in  ice  for  3  hours. 

The  whites  are  splendidly  adapted  for  a  white  cake,  given 
in  cake  department,  and  goes  well  with  the  mousse. 

— Mrs.  Louis  Hirsh. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT. 

Yolks  4  eggs;  1  pt.  double  cream. 

1  cup  hot  maple  syrup; 

Boil  eggs  and  maple  syrup  in  double  boiler  until  thick  as 

custard.    When  cold,  fold  in  whipped  cream.    Pour  into  mold 

and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours.    Serve  in  parfait  glasses. 

Decorate  on  top  with  a  spoon  of  whipped  cream  and  a  cherry. 

—Mrs.  Fred  Wolf. 

123 


MAPLE  MOUSSE, 

V/2  cups  maple  syrup;  54  tt>  candied  cherries; 

4  eggs  (yolks);  1  pt.  cream  (whipped). 

?4  cup  mits  (chopped); 

Boil  maple  syrup  and  yolks  of  eggs  in  double  boiler  until 

thick,  stirring  constantly.    When  thick,  add  nuts,  cherries  and 

whipped  cream ;  put  in  mold  and  pack  in  ice,  freezing  for  4 

hours. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Adolph. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT. 

•34  cup  maple  syrup;  54  pt.  cream; 

]4  package  minute  gelatine;  14  cup  rolled  nut  meats. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs; 

Let  syrup  come  to  a  boil  and  add  gelatine,  which  has  been 

dissolved  in  J4  cup  boiling  water.     Beat  eggs  well,  and  add 

slowly  to  the  syrup.    Remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and 

stand  aside  to  cool.  Whip  cream  very  stiff,  and  add  to  mixture. 

Add  nuts  and  pour  in  mold.    Set  on  ice  for  6  hours,  and  serve 

with  Maraschino  cherries. 

— Mrs.  E.  J.  Donnelley. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM. 

1  tablespoon  gelatine;  1  cup  sugar; 

1  cup  boiling  water;  1  teaspoon  extract. 
4  eggs  (whites) 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water,  then  pour  slowly  over  the 

beaten  whites  of  eggs,  adding  sugar  and  flavoring.    Arrange 

in  layers  in  a  mold,  with  candied  cherries  and  chopped  nuts 

between.    Color  the  alternate  layers  pink.  Serve  with  whipped 

or  plain  cream. 

— Mrs.  E.  M.  Lazarus. 

PEACH  WHIP. 

Break  1  egg  (white)  in  a  deep  bowl ;  add  }4  pt.  sugar  and 

2  very  mellow  peaches,  pared  and  pressed  through  a  sieve; 
add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  beat  until  the  bOwl  is 
filled  with  a  light,  stiff  mixture.  Heap  into  glasses  and  chill  in 
refrigerator  before  serving. 

124 


NAPOLEON  CREAM. 

1  qt.  cream  (whipped);  Yz  teaspoon  vanilla. 

J4  lb.  candied  cherries; 

J4  cup  almonds  or  macaroons  (chopped) ; 

Sweeten  whipped  cream  to  taste;  then  add  chopped 
cherries  and  almonds  or  macaroons,  chopped  fine;  last  van- 
illa.   Put  in  mold  and  pack,  freezing  for  3  hours.    Very  good. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Adolph. 

PEACH  DESSERT. 

2  eggs ;  1  cup  apple  sauce.  Beat  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  in 
the  apple  sauce,  well  sweetened  and  very  cold.  Pour  over 
sliced  peaches.    Very  good  and  quickly  made. 

— Estelle  Perley. 

PINEAPPLE  PARFAIT. 

1^  cups  cream;  IJ'^  grated  pineapples; 

y-i  cup  granulated  sugar;  1  lemon; 

Whip  stiff  the  cream  with  the  sugar.  Cook  pineapple 
with  sugar  until  thin.  Add,  when  cold,  to  the  first:  also  juice 
of  the  lemon.  Continue  beating  until  cream  and  pineapple  are 
well  blended,  then  turn  mixture  into  mold  and  pack  into  equal 
measures  of  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours.  * 

—Mrs.  W.  B.  Klee. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

lib  prunes;  4  eggs; 

Sugar;  Lemon; 

Stew  1  tb.  of  good  prunes  with  sugar  and  lemon  to  taste. 
When  soft,  stone  and  mash;  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and 
stir  all  until  light.  Put  in  pan  and  bake  for  20  minutes.  When 
cold,  cover  with  sweetened  whipped  cream.  This  delicious 
and  wholesome  pudding  should  be  tried.  Can  be  made  the 
day  before  using,  and  cream  added  at  time  of  serving. 

— Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufmann. 
125 


A  QUICK  DESSERT. 

1  handful  bread  crumbs;  4  eggs; 

Yn  cup  milk;  Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  together  and  cook  like  an  omelet,  in  buttered  skillet. 
Spread  with  jelly  and  serve  at  once. 

SNOW  PUDDING  MARASCHINO. 

Make  a  good  lemon  gelatine.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
stiff,  and  as  the  gelatine  begins  to  form,  beat  in  the  whites. 
Mold  it  in  sherbet  glasses  and  when  ready  to  serve  decorate 
with  Maraschino  cherries,  and  pour  over  all  several  table- 
spoons of  the  Maraschino  liquor,  leaving  it  to  be  served  in  the 
glasses. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

J4  box  gelatine;  4  eggs; 

1   pt.  milk;  S  tablespoons  granulated  sugar. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  J^  pint  milk  and  add  to  %  pint 
hot  milk  in  double  boiler.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil.  Add  beaten 
egg  yolks  and  boil  until  thick;  then  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Mold  in  individual  cups,  placing  a  macaroon  and  Maraschino 
cherries  in  the  bottom.  Let  stand  all  night.  Serve  with 
i.vhipped  cream,  garnished  with  cherries. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Lipman. 

WINE  JELLY. 

1  box  gelatine;  1  qt.  boiling  water; 

3  cups  sugar;  1  pt.  sherry  wine; 

1  cup  cold  water;  Cinnamon. 

2  lemons; 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  the  cold  water  to  dissolve;  then 
add  the  sugar,  rind  of  1  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  a  pinch  of  cinna- 
mon, the  boiling  water  and  the  sherry.  Strain  through  cloth ; 
put  in  freezer  and  pack  in  ice  for  2  hours.    Serve  with  whipped 

cream. 

— Mrs.  Ph.  Hart,  New  Orleans. 
126 


WINE  PUDDING. 

3  eggs;  1  cup  white  wine; 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch;  1  cup  water; 

S  tablespoons  granulated  sugar;      1   lemon. 

Beat  yolks  white  with  the  sugar.  Dissolve  the  cornstarch 
in  the  water.  Next  add  wine  and  the  grating  and  juice  of  the 
lemon.  Put  to  boil;  when  thick  throw  over  macaroons  that 
have  been  placed  in  pudding  dish;  beat  whites  stiff  with 
powdered  sugar  and  drop  of  vanilla,  spread  over  all ;  then  put 
in  blanched  almonds.    Brown  this  in  oven. 

— Chicago. 


127 


MEMORANDUM 


128 


MEMORANDUM 


129 


MEMORANDUM 


130 


CJIKES 

LARGE  AND  SMALL 


A  HINT  FOR  CAKE  MAKING. 

A  time  and  labor-saving  method  of  preparing  all  cakes 
that  require  no  butter — such  as  nut-tarts,  sponge  cakes,  etc., 
is  to  simply  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  first;  next  gradually  add 
the  sugar,  then  the  yolks,  and  follow  with  the  flour. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

3   oz.   sweet  almonds;  2   lemons; 

1  oz.  bitter  almonds;  4  oz.  flour; 

I  pt.  pulverized  sugar;  1  oz.  cornstarch. 
20  eggs; 

Blanch  and  pound  almost  to  paste,  stir  the  sugar  and 
yolks  of  eggs  light;  then  add  almond  paste,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  lemons,  and  beat  until  thick.  Beat  whites  of  6  eggs  to 
stiff  froth,  adding  tablespoon  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  stir  it 
in,  1-3  at  a  time,  with  above  mixture.  Lastly,  add  the  flour, 
well  sifted  with  the  cornstarch.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  pans. 
When  cold,  ice  with  white  icing. 

— Daisy  H.  Levy. 

ANGEL  FOOD. 

II  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar; 
1  teaspoon  vanilla;                                IJ^  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  flour; 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add 
vanilla,  then  sugar,  sifted  four  times,  flour,  sifted  four  times, 
and  cream  of  tartar.     Bake  50  minutes. 

Icing — 1  tgg;  1  cup  sugar;  J4  cup  water;  pinch  cream  of 

tartar. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kingsbacher. 
131 


AN  EGOLESS  CAKE. 

3  cups  flour;  1  cup  seeded  raisins; 

J4  cup  brown  sugar;  J4  teaspoon  allspice; 

1  teaspoon  ginger;  ^  cup  lard  or  butter; 

1  cup  hot  water;  1  teaspoon  soda; 

Vi  teaspoon  cloves;  1  cup  molasses. 

Put  all  dry  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl;  cut  the 
shortening  into  them,  and  mix  well,  like  pie  crust.  Add  the 
molasses,  the  hot  water,  and  last,  the  raisins.  Bake  in  gem 
pans  or  in  one  large  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  S.  L.  Kaufman. 

ARTHURDALE  CAKE. 

Yi  cup  butter;  V/z   cups   milk; 

XYi  cups  powdered  sugar;  2j4  cups  flour; 

3  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  in  the  usual  way. 

— Mrs.  Robert  Lewin. 

BAKING  POWDER  CINNAMON  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar;  2  teaspoons   baking   powder; 

Yi  cup  butter;  Pinch  of  salt; 

1  cup  flour; 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  or  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mix  together;  then  add  2  whole  eggs,  mixed  with  1  cup 
milk.  Pour  into  large  flat  pan ;  sprinkle  top  with  butter,  sugar, 
cinnamon  and  almonds.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

BANANA  CREAM  CAKE. 

1-3    cup    butter;  Yi  cup  milk; 

1  cup  sugar;  154  cups  flour; 

2  eggs;  lYi  level  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  eggs,  well  beaten ;  stir  in  the 
milk ;  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  several  times.  Fold 
in  and  mix  well.  Bake.  When  cold,  cover  with  sliced  bananas. 
Cover  with  whipped  cream. 

—Mrs.  John  X.  Smith,  Watertown,  N.  Y. 
132 


BRAEHME  APPLE  CAKE. 

7  apples;  1  pt.  sour  cream; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  2  tablespoons  vanilla; 

6  tablespoons  sugar;  1J4  sweet  zwieback  (crushed); 

6  eggs;  Cinnamon. 

Peel  and  slice  apples.  Put  butter  and  sugar  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  steam  15  minutes.  Beat  eggs  well,  together  with  the 
sour  cream  and  vanilla;  put  in  with  apples  and  steam  it  until 
it  thickens  a  little,  shaking  continually.  Then  take  zwieback 
and  a  little  cinnamon ;  butter  baking  pan  well  (spring  form  is 
best)  ;  line  well  with  zwieback  crumbs;  pour  in  the  mixture; 
put  more  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top.  Bake  ^ 
hour.    May  be  used  warm  (not  hot)  or  cold. 

— Mrs.  Leon  Wertheimer. 


BREAD  CRUMB  CAKE. 

Mix  1  cup  bread  crumbs ;  4  tablespoons  chocolate ;  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder;  J4  cup  nuts,  and  1  tablespoon  flour. 
Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  6  eggs;  add  this  to  the 
above  mixture;  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon. 

— Mrs.  Edward  M.  Lazarus. 


BROD  TORTE. 

10  eggs;  1  tablespoon  cinnamon; 

1  orange;  1  cup  cracker  or  matzo  meal; 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar;  54  teaspoon  cloves; 
1  lemon;  V-i  teaspoon  allspice. 
54   tt).  almonds; 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  cream  with  sifted  pulverized  sugar; 
add  rolled  (but  not  blanched)  almonds  and  the  cup  of  meal; 
juice  of  orange  and  rind  of  lemon,  grated;  then  the  spices,  and 
last  add  the  stifif-beaten  whites ;  and  bake  at  once  in  a  slow 
oven  for  about  1  hour.    This  is  best  baked  in  a  spring  form. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 
133 


BROD  TORTE. 

^  eggs;  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves; 

^  lb.  shelled  almonds  (ground)  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon. 

8  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar; 

4  medium  sized  potatoes,  boiled  and  riced  and  cooled 
oS.  Yolks  of  8  eggs,  beaten  light,  with  8  tablespoons 
pulverized  sugar;  add  %  of  ground  almonds;  then  the  cinna- 
mon and  cloves,  and  riced  potatoes,  and  last,  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.    Bake  moderately  in  spring  form. 

—Mrs.  I.  J.  DeRoy. 


BROD  TORTE. 

8  eggs,  beaten  separately;  }4  cup  chopped  almonds; 

8  tablespoons  sugar;  1  tablespoon  grated  chocolate, 

}4  lb.  chopped  citron;  1  lemon  (juice  and  rind); 

pinch  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  pepper,  ginger  and  nutmeg  to  flavor. 

— Mrs.  ly.  Deutsch,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 


BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

5^  cup  butter;  154  cups  flour,  sifted; 

1J4   cups   granulated  sugar;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 

Yolks  of  4  eggs;  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract; 

J^  cup  milk;  2  squares   Baker's  chocolate. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  beaten 
yolks;  add  the  milk  and  flour,  alternately;  add  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  then  take  2  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  dis- 
solved in  6  tablespoons  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  this  in  the 
above  mixture  while  hot;  then  add  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten 
stiff,  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers  in  very  slow 
oven. 

Boiled  Icing — ^Take  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  1-3  cup 
hot  water,  and  boil  until  it  strings ;  then  pour  boiled  sugar  and 
water  slowly  into  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Beat  briskly;  then 
flavor  with  brandy. 

— Mrs.  Morris  Jackson,  521  Aiken  Ave.,  City. 
134 


BROWN  CAKE. 

4  eggs;  1  cup  flour; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  flavoring; 

lyi  cups  sugar;  1  cup  rolled  almonds. 
1  teaspoon  cloves; 

Beat  eggs  separately;  cream  sugar  and  yolks;  add  other 

ingredients ;  then  beaten  whites,  and  bake  slowly. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 

BLACK  CHOCOLATE  LOAF  CAKE. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter;  1  cup  milk; 

1   egg;  1  teaspoon  soda; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  2  cups  flour; 

%  lb.  Baker's  chocolate;  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  ' 

Begin  by  stirring  butter  and  sugar;  add  yolk  of  egg, 
creamed ;  the  chocolate  dissolved  in  J4  cup  milk ;  also  the  soda, 
dissolved  in  yi  cup  milk.  Flavor  and  add  flour;  and  last,  the 
white  of  egg,  beaten  stiff.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  Max  Solomon,  Beaver  Falls. 

CHESTNUT  CAKE. 

8  eggs;  8  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar; 

Separate  eggs;  beat  whites,  and  add  half  of  them  to  the 
yolks  and  sugar,  well  beaten.  Then  add  4  tablespoons  grated 
nuts;  4  tablespoons  bread  crumbs;  6  tablespoons  chocolate; 
pinch  of  cloves ;  pinch  of  cinnamon,  and  remaining  wHites. 

Filling — Boil  chestnuts  soft ;  add  sugar  and  mash  smooth. 
When  cold,  add  cream  to  make  a  proper  consistency.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  on  top. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

2  oz.  chocolate;  154  cups  sifted  flour; 
54  cup  butter;                                      4  eggs; 

l}i  cups  sugar;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

yi  cup  milk; 

Dissolve  chocolate  in   5  tablespoons  water;  thicken  on 

stove  and  cool.    Cream  butter,  and  sugar;  add  yolks  of  eggs, 

milk  and  chocolate.     Add  flour,  baking  powder  and  beaten 

whites  of  eggs. 

—Mrs.  Jake  Cohn. 
135 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar;  grated  peel  of  J4  lemon; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

6  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cloves; 

1  cup  grated  chocolate;  1  teaspoon  alspice; 

1   cup  pounded  almonds;  1  tablespoon  wine. 

1  cup  cracker  meal,  or  ^  cup  matzo  meal; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 

Cream  sugar,  butter  and  yolk  of  eggs.  In  another  bowl 
mix  chocolate,  almonds,  spices,  lemon  peel,  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Mix  contents  of  both  bowls.  Add  wine  and  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  layers.  Put  jelly  or  whipped  cream 
between. 

— C.  S.  F. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  Baker's  choccdate  (grated) ;         2-3  cup  brown  sugar; 
%  cup  milk;  1  egg  (yolk) 

Place  this  on  stove  and  stir  until  it  thickens  a  little;  add  >^  tea- 
spoon vanilla  when  cold. 

Mix  together  the  following: 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  2  cups  flour;; 

%  cup  butter;  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  milk. 

2  eggs; 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  separately,  and  add  first  mixture 
just  before  stirring  in  the  flour.  Measure  flour  before  sifting. 
The  extra  white  of  egg  can  be  used  in  a  boiled  white  icing,  or, 
if  a  chocolate  icing  is  used,  put  the  white  of  egg  with  the 
others  in  the  cake. 

Chocolate  Icing — 1  cup  sugar ;  J^  cake  Baker's  chocolate ; 
J4  cup  milk.  Boil  5  minutes  and  pour  over  cake  while  icing  is 
hot. 

—Mrs.  S.  Gallinger,  Jr. 
136 


CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

}i  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar; . 

2  eggs,  yolk  of  3rd ;  2  cups  milk , 

2J^  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

■vanilla;  ^  lb.  Chocolate. 

Cream  butter  with  1  cup  sugar;  then  add  2  whole  eggs; 
1J4  cups  milk;  2j/i  cups  flour  (sifted  after  being  measured); 
2  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  1  table- 
6'poon  vanilla.  Now,  take  J4  ^-  chocolate  (bitter),  grated;  yi 
cup  milk;  1  cup  sugar,  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg;  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  boil  until  thick;  then  pour  immediately  into  the  cake 
batter.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  3  layers,  put  together  with  either 
boiled  icing  or  whipped  cream,  and  ice  on  top. 

—Rachel  C.  Rauh. 


CHOCOLATE  ROLL. 

6  eggs;  1  pt.  cream; 

1    cup    sugar;  1   tablespoon  flour. 

10c  worth  sweet  chocolate; 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  light;  add  grated  chocolate,  flour 
and  beaten  whites,  and  bake  thin  layer  in  large  square  pan  or 
jelly  cake  pans.  While  still  warm,  spread  with  stiff  beaten 
cream  and  roll.    Put  in  ice  box  to  cool.    Fine. 

— New  York. 


COCOA  TORTE. 

j4  cup  butter;  IH  cups  flour; 

}4  cup  cocoa;  2  tablespoons  baking  powder; 

lyi  cups  granulated  sugar;  scant  cup  strong  black  coffee. 
3  eggs; 

Proceed  in  the  usual  cake  making  manner,  putting  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  fill 
with  strawberry  jam. 

— New  York. 
137 


CREAM  CAKE. 

3  eggs;  3  tablespoons  water; 

1  cup  granulated  suga"!-;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

lyi  cups  flour; 

Bake  above  in  two  layers. 

Filling: 

1  pt.  milk;  2    tablespoons    cornstarch; 

1  cup  sugar;  Small  piece  of  butter; 

2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Let  milk  and  sugar  come  to  a  boil  in  a  double  boiler ;  add 
eggs,  well-beaten;  then  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk, 
and  the  butter.    Boil,  stirring  frequently.     Spread  when  cool. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Lipman. 

DATE  CAKE. 

2   cups  pulverized   sugar;  3   sticks  chocolate; 

Yolks  of  12  eggs;  Juice   and  grated   rind   1   lemon; 

14  lb.  dates;  8  soda  crackers; 

\yi  teaspoons  allspice;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1}^  teaspoons  cinnamon; 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs  well ;  add  dates,  cut  fine ;  the  spices 
and  chocolate,  grated.  Roll  soda  crackers  to  a  fine  powder 
and  mix  with  baking  powder.  Lastly,  add  the  stiffly-beaten 
whites.  Bake  in  spring  form  in  slow  oven.  Cover  with 
chocolate  icing. 

—Mrs.  J.  M.  Friedman. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter;  4  cups  flour; 

2J4  cups  sugar;  3   teaspoons   baking  powder; 

1  cup  milk;  6  eggs. 

Mix  baking  powder  in  flour;  cream  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether. Add  milk;  stir  in  flour  and  beat  smooth.  Stir  each 
egg  separately. 

Filling — }i  pt.  milk;  2  teaspoons  cornstarch;  1  egg;  1 
teaspoon  vanilla.  >^  cup  sugar. 

— Ida  Ehrman  Hirshfield. 
138 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 
Part   J— 

1   cup  grated  chocolate;  1  egg  (yolk); 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  1   teaspoon  vanilla. 

Vi  cup  milk; 

Stir  above,  cook  slowly  until  thick,  and  put  aside  to  cool. 

Part  2— 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  J4  cup  sweet  milk; 

2  cups  flour;  2  eggs. 
Vi  cup  butter; 

Mix  the  above ;  add  Part  1 ;  then  1  tablespoon  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a  little  warm  water.  Bake  in  layers.  Ice  or  put  a 
custard  between  layers. 

— Mrs.  J.  Rogaliner. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 

3  eggs;  J4  cup  butter; 

1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda; 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  2  cups  well-sifted  flour. 

Yi  cup  grated,  unsweetened,  chocolate; 

Take  1  &%%,  well  beaten,  and  add  chocolate  and  J4  cup 
milk.  Cook  all  together  until  the  chocolate  is  well  dissolved. 
Stand  aside  to  cool.  Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  eggs,  flour, 
milk  and  beaten  whites.  Add  soda  to  flour.  Put  all  ingredi- 
ents together  and  bake  35  to  40  minutes. 

— Miss  Mary  Mazuch. ' 

DRUNKEN  MONK  TORTE. 

1  cup  rye  bread,  grated;  7  eggs; 

1  cup  grated  almonds;  7  tablespoons  sugar; 

1   teaspoon  each  allspice,  cinnamon  and  grated  rind  of  lemon. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  light.  Add  bread  and  al- 
monds, spices,  lemon  rind,  and  lastly,  beaten  whites.  Mix 
well  and  bake  ^  hour.  Serve  with  a  sauuce  of  claret  and 
sugar,  boiled  together,  and  poured  over  hot. 

— N.  Y. 
139 


DOBACH  TORTE. 

6  eggs;  1}4  wooden  spoonsful  flour. 

%  lb.  powdered  sugar; 

Cream  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar;  add  the  flour;  then 
add  the  beaten  whites  carefully  into  the  mixture.  Butter  pie 
pans  on  the  wrong  side  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour.  Spread 
the  mixture  very  thin.  This  amount  should  make  12  layers, 
between  which  spread  the  following  mixture : 

Yz  lb.  sweet  butter;  6  tablespoons  granulated  sugar; 

yi  lb.  sweet  chocolate;  1  cup  strong  coffee. 

Cream  the  butter  and  put  on  ice.  Grate  the  chocolate 
and  mix  with  the  sugar;  add  the  coffee  and  set  on  to  boil 
until  it  can  almost  be  pulled  like  candy.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  stir  until  quite  cold.  Then  add  the  butter.  Then  spread 
thin  between  the  layers,  thicker  on  top  and  sides.  Better 
when  two  days  old. 

— N.  Y. 

EXCELLENT  GINGER  BREAD. 

1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  butter; 

1  cup  sugar;  3  eggs,  beaten  separately; 

1  tablespoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little   vinegar; 

Spices  to  taste  (cloves,  ginger,  cinnamon.) 

4  cups  flour; 

Mix  all  well  together;  then  add  1  cup  boiling  water. 

— Miss  J.  A.  Doran. 

FARINA  TORTE. 

6  eggs;  54  cup  farina; 

1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  ground  almonds. 

Beat  yolks   and   sugar;   add   almonds   and   farina;  then 

whites,  beaten  stiff.     Bake  in  two  layers,  20  minutes.  Put 

whipped  cream  between  layers  and  on  top  j/z  inch  thick.  Top 
of  cream  decorate  with  cherries,  berries,  etc. 

—Mrs.  Jake  Cohn. 
140 


FILLING. 

Vz  cake  Baker's  chocolate;  yolk  of  1  egg; 

J4cup  granulated  sugar;  J4  cup  milk. 

Add  milk  to  grated  chocolate  (which  has  been  mixed  with 
the  sugar  and  egg) ;  boil  in  double  boiler.    When  cooled  spread 

between  layers. 

— N.  Y. 

FRUIT  FILLING  BETWEEN  LAYERS,  FOR  ANY  KIND 

OF  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs;  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel; 

1   large   spoon   butter;  1-3  tb.  raisins; 

1  cup  sugar;  Yt.  cup  sherry; 

10  almonds,  cut  fine; 

Vanilla,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice  to  taste. 

Mix  thoroughly;  boil  in  double  boiler  till  very  thick,  and 
spread  between  cake  when  cold. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

1  lb.  butter;  1   tablespoon  cinnamon; 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar;  H  glas  brandy; 
1  It),  seedless  raisins;                          6   eggs; 

1  tb.  currants;  3    cups    milk; 

Yi  It),  citron;  2  teaspoon's  baking  powder. 

1  grated  nutmeg; 

Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  mix  well. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter;  add  eggs  and  milk.     Mix  spices 

and  brandy.     Dredge  fruit  with  flour.    Use  a  wooden  spoon, 

as  the  batter  must  be  very  stiff.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  3  hours 

— in  2  large  pans  lined  with  paper. 

— Mrs.  H.  Jena. 

HAZELNUT  TORTE. 

12  eggs;  12  stale  lady  fingers  (powdered); 

2  cups  granulated  sugar;  Lemon. 

3  small  cups  chopped  hazelnuts; 

Stir  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar ;  add  hazelnuts,  lady  fingers 

and  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.     Flavor  with  lemon  and 

bake  40  minutes, 

— Mrs.  J.  A.  Perley. 

141 


GERMAN  HAZELNUT  TORTE. 

8  eggs;  Yq,  lb.  grated  hazelnuts. 

Yi  tb.  granulated  sugar; 

Beat  together  for  20  minutes  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar ; 
then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Place  the  bowl  in  which  it 
has  been  stirred  over  boiling  water.  Stir  continually  until  all 
the  batter  is  well  warmed,  but  not  too  hot.  Add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  the  hazelnuts  gradually.  Bake  very  slowly  in  a 
well  greased  spring  form.  If  desired,  the  grated  rind  of  half 
a  lemon  may  be  added.    Ice  with  boiled  icing. 

— C.  S.  F. 


GINGER    BREAD. 

1  cup  molasses;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg; 

1  cup  shortening;  1  teaspoon  soda; 

1  cup  sour  milk;  3  cups  flour; 

3   eggs;  2  teaspoons  ginger. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  sour  milk.  This  amount 
makes  a  large  quaiitity.  Half  the  recipe  is  sufficient  for  eight 
persons. 

— Miss  Parsons,  West  Virginia. 


HALF-POUND    CAKE. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  flour; 

IJ^  cups  powdered  sugar;  1   teaspoon  vanilla; 

4  eggs;  1  level  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Yi  cup  milk; 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  eggs,  then  the  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder 
and  vanilla.  Lastly,  beat  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  fifty  (50)  minutes,  y^  cup  chopped  nuts  may 
be  added,  if  desired. 

— Mrs.  Jacob  Biseman. 
142 


HAZELNUT  TORTE. 

5  eggs;  2  tablespoons  flour; 

6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar;       1   teaspoon  baking  powder. 
6  tablespoons  grated  hazelnuts; 

Beat  all  well  and  bake  in  two  layers,  between  which 
put  the  following  filling :  1  pt.  whipped  cream  ;  3  grated  sticks 
of  sweet  chocolate;  vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste.  Spread  be- 
tween layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Decorate  with 
whole  hazelnuts.     Walnuts  may  be  used  instead. 

— Mrs.  K.  Solomon. 

HAZELNUT    TORTE. 

1  lb.   ground   hazelnuts;  1  lemon; 

10  eggs;  1  cup  cracker  crumbs; 

l^'i   lbs.  pulverized  sugar;  Salt. 

Stir  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  for  1  hour;  add  lemon  rind 
and  cup  of  sifted  cracker  crumbs  and  nuts  and  salt,  and  last 
stiflf-beaten  whites.  Bake  in  a  spring  form  for  1^  hours,  in 
a  moderate  oven.  The  nuts  can  be  replaced  by  J4  tt)-  of  choco- 
late, but  always  use  the  crumbs  and  add  these  before  nuts. 

— MisS  W/3rmser. 

HICKORY    NUT    CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar;  3  eggs; 
2-3  cup  butter;                Q}  1  cup  milk; 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  3  cups  flour. 
1  cup  nut  kernels; 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  yolks  of  eggs;  then  milk, 

the  baking  powder  mixed  into  the  flour,  and  the  finely  cut  nut 

meats,  and  last  the  white  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

— Bessie  Cohen,  Cleveland. 

JELLY    ROLL. 

4  eggs;  1  cup  flour; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoons   water; 

Bake  in  cake  pan,  jelly  it  and  roll. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Lipman. 

¥3 


JASPER    CAKE. 

?4  cup  butter;  2  cups  flour; 

IJ^  cups  sugar;  2  squares  chocolate; 

4  eggs;  1  teaspoon  soda  (level); 

1  cup  milk  (sour);  1   teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs, 
sour  milk,  flour,  chocolate  melted,  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
boiling  water,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla. 
Bake  in  two  layers,  and  when  cold  ice  as  any  cake. 

— Mrs.  Aaron  DeRoy. 

KAESE-KUCHEN. 

3  eggs;  Icup    Schmier-Kase; 

?4  cup  sugar;  1  cup  sour  cream. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar;  add  other  ingredients  and 

whites  of  eggs.    Fill  a  rich  kuchen  dough. 

#  — Mrs.  L.  Deutsch,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 

KISS    TART. 

6  eggs  (whites);  1  teaspoon  vinegar; 

2  cups  granulated  sugar;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


nulatec 


Beat  v^tes  stiff.     Add  sugar  gradually.     Then  vinegar 

and   vanilla.     Bake   in   two   layers.     When   done   put   fresh 

strawberries,  pineapple  or  any  kind  of  fruit  between  layers. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

—Miss  E.  M.,  Kansas  City. 

LADY    FINGER    TORTE. 

8  lady  fingers;  yi  lemon; 

S  eggs;  1  cup  nut  meats. 

1  cup  pulverized  sugar; 

Dry  and  roll  the  lady  fingers ;  separate  eggs  and  add  yolks 
to  sugar  and  beat^ell.  Then  add  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon, 
the;  chopped  nul^ahd  lady  fingers.    Bake  slowly  in  layers. 

For  the  Filling:  Boil  until  thick  1  scant  cup  milk;  1 
tablespoon  pulverized  sugar;  1  cup  nut  meats.  Or,  lemon 
custard  filling  may  be  used  instead. 

— Mrs.  Jos.  Prinz,  Cleveland. 
1^ 


KUCHEN. 

3  qts.  flour;  1  cup  butter; 

1  cake  Fleishmann's  yeast;  1  cup  sugar; 

1  pt.  milk;  lemon  (grated  rind.) 

3   eggs; 

Soak  yeast  in  lukewarm  milk  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt  ,and 
milk.  Let  sponge  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  eggs,  butter, 
sugar  and  rind  of  lemon.  Add  milk  enough  to  mixture  to 
make  dough  right  consistency  to  be  pulled.  Put  thin  layer 
in  pan  and  make  any  filling.  All  fruits  in  season  may  be 
used.  1  egg,  J^  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour  to  make  custard 
for  top.  Bake  in  oven  25  to  30  minutes.  Cinnamon  cake, 
cheese  cake,  "Schnecken"  may  be  made  from  same  dough. 

— Henrietta  S.  Ehrman. 


LEB   KUCHEN. 

1  cup  butter;  6  eggs; 

2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour; 

1  cup  molasses;  Vi  cake  chocolate; 

All  kinds  of  spice  1  teaspoon  of  each; 
1  cup  of  all  kinds  of  nuts  (spread  them.) 

Grease  a  bread  pan  and  spread  thin.    When  cool,  cut  in 

square  and  ice. 

— Mrs.  Herman  Cerf. 


LINSEN   TORTE. 

Yi  lb.  butter;  J4  lb  almonds; 

Yi  lb.  pulverized  sugar;  2  eggs; 

V/i  tablespoons  brandy;  J^  lb.  flour; 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon;  H  teaspoon  allspice; 

Plum  preserves;  Y-i  teaspoon  cloves. 

Mix  the  batter  in  the  usual  way  and  pat  with  the  hand 
into  a  spring  form.  Spread  with  the  plum  preserves  and 
cover  with  strips  of  the  dough.  Bake  slowly.  This  amount 
makes,  one  large  or  two  small  cakes. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 
145 


REAL  GERMAN  LEB  KUCHEN. 

1  qt.  New  Orleans  molasses;  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves; 

Yz  lb.  shelled  almonds;  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon; 

Vz   lb.  citron;  1  teaspoon  ground  allspice; 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  Sc  worth  baking  hartshorn; 

4  eggs;  Flour  enough  to  roll. 

Mix   all   together.     Roll   moderately  thin;   then   cut   in 
squares.    Bake  in  moderate  oven.    When  cool,  add  icing. 

— Mrs.  H.  N.  Benedict. 


MAPLE   ICING. 

1  cup  sugar;  Mapeline  flavor; 

Whites  of  2  eggs;  S  or  6  tablespoons  water. 

Take  sugar  and  water  and  allow  to  boil  and  cook  until 
stringy.  Beat  eggs  and  add  slowly  to  syrup.  Beat  well  with 
egg  beater  and  flavor. 

— Miss  Evelyn  Lippa. 

MOCHA    TORTE. 

1  cup  flour,  sifted  three  times;        4  eggs; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  1J4  tablespoons  table  essence. 

1   cup  pulverized  sugar; 

Mix;  yolks  and  whites  to  be  beaten  separately.  Bake  in 
two  layers. 

Filling— 

Y-i    pt,  cream;  1  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  Mocha; 

Beat  ingredients  together. 

— Miss  Julia  DeRoy. 

MOCHA    FILLING. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar;  3  teaspoons  powdered  cocoa; 
Y^  cup  butter;  1   teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  tablespoons  cold,  strong  coffee; 

Beat  all  together  until  it  is  creamy  and  fine.  You  can 
decorate  with  nuts  or  cherries. 

— Mrs.  J.  Rogaliner. 
146 


MOUNTAIN    CAKE. 

Whites  of  6  eggs;  J^  cup  cornstarch; 

1}4  cups  sugar;  V^  cups  flour; 

H  cup  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

H  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Proceed  in  the  usual  manner  and  bake  in  layers. 

Orange  Filling — 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange;  1  cup  sugar; 

Juice  of  2  oranges;  1  cup  water; 

Juice  of  1  lemon;  1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

Dissolve  cornstarch  in  a  little  of  the  water.    Mix  other 

ingredients  (there  should  be  one  cup  of  juice)  and  cook  until 

clear.    Set  avvay  to  cool.    Spread  between  layers  just  before 

serving.    On  top  layr  sprinkle  pulverized  sugar. 

—Mrs.  John  X.  Smith,  Watertown,  N.  Y. 

NUT    CAKE. 

6  eggs ;  1  cup  sugar ;  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Beat  eggs  and 
sugar  well;  add  the  nuts,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.     Bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  A.  H.  New,  New  York. 

NUT    TORTE. 

8  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

154  cups  sugar;  54  teaspoon  allspice; 

•)4  cups  nuts;  3  teaspoons  chocolate; 

J4  lemon   (juice);  1  tablespoon  brandy; 

1  lemon  (the  rind);  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

Bake  1  hour  in  slow  oven. 

— N.  Y. 

PEACH    LAYER    CAKE. 

2  eggs;  3  cups  flour; 

1  cup  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

2  cups  sugar;  grated  nutmeg. 
1  cup  milk; 

Bake  the  above  in  a  rather  quick  oven,  making  three 

layers.     Put  sweetened,  sliced  peaches  between  and  on  top. 

When  ready  to  serve,  cover  top  layer  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  J.  Rogaliner. 

147 


ORIGINAL   GINGER   BREAD. 

1  cup  molasses;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

54  cup  brown  sugar;  2  tablespoons  melted  butter; 

1  cup  sour  milk  or  cream;  1%  teaspons  ginger; 

1  teaspoon  soda;  Flour. 

2  eggs; 

Dissolve  soda  in  the  milk,  add  other  ingredients  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan 
and  strew  with  small  pieces  of  English  walnuts. 

— Mrs.  M.  A.  Goodstone. 


POTATO    CAKE. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs;  j/i  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1  cup  boiled  and  grated  potatoes;  S  cents  worth  chopped  citron; 

1  cup  rye  bread  crumbs;  S  cents  worth  chopped  almonds; 

yi  glass  of  brandy;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Il4  cups  sugar; 

Add  stiffly  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  three  layers  and  spread 
with  whipped  cream  between. 

— Chicago. 


RYE   BREAD   TORTE. 

1  cup  stale  rye  bread  crumbs;  J4  orange; 

1  cup  grated  almonds;  1  piece  grated  chocolate; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  1  piece  citron; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  J4  lemon; 

yi   teaspoon  cloves;  10  eggs; 

yi  teaspoon  allspice;  2  cups  sugar. 

Cut  citron  into  small  pieces.  Mix  this  and  the  beaten 
yolks,  beaten  with  the  sugar.  Add  juice  and  rind  of  lemon 
and  orange ;  then,  last,  whites  of  eggs.    Bake  one  hour. 

— E.  F.  B.,  Philadelphia. 


SOUR   CREAM    FILLING    FOR   CAKE. 

1  cup  sour  cream  (whipped);  1  cup  nuts  (chopped). 

1  cup  pulverized  sugar; 

Put  between  layers  of  white  cake  and  ice  with  white  icing. 

— M.  E.  S. 
148 


RELIABLE   SPONGE  CAKE. 

S  eggs;  S  tablespoons  water; 

1%  cups  sugar;  lyi  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

IV2   cups  flour;  juice  of  1  small  lemon. 

Begin  by  beating  yolks  thoroughly,  then  add  sugar  and 

beat  again ;  then  beaten  whites,  and  beat  well ;  then  the  water, 

and  slowly  add  the  flour  containing  baking  powder,  but  this 

time  beat  slightly.  Last,  add  lemon  juice.    Grease  and  sprinkle 

pan  with  pulverized  sugar  and  bake  the  cake  for  45  to  60 

minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


-Miss  B.  S. 


SAND    TORTE. 


J4  it)-  flour;  yi   tb.  sugar; 

^  lb.  cornstarch;  2  eggs; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

1  lemon;  rum. 

yi  lb.  butter; 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  together  for  fully  J^  hour. 
Drop  in,  in  succession,  yolks  of  eggs,  each  one  beaten  thor- 
oughly. Add  rind  of  lemon,  the  vanilla,  and  a  pony  glass  of 
rum  and  beat  well.  Mix  together  the  flour,  cornstarch  and 
baking  powder,  and  lastly  add  the  stiff-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.    Bake  in  spring  form  for  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

—Mrs.  G.  E.  Crone. 

SPICE    CAKE. 

V/i  cups  brown  sugar;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

i^  cup  butter;  Vz  teaspoon  cloves; 

1  cup  sour  milk;  Vi  teaspoon  allspice; 

4  eggs;  4  tablespoons  molasses; 

1   cup   raisins;  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  soda; 

1  cup  currants;  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts; 

Cream    butter    and    sugar,    the    sour    milk    and    yolks 

of  eggs;  then  gradually  add  other  ingredients,   the  baking 

soda  mixed  in  the  flour,  and  last  the  whites  of  two  eggs.    Bake 

in  two  layers  in  a  moderate  oven. 

For  the  Filling:    Whites  of  two  eggs;  1%  cups  of  sugar. 
— Mrs.  Max  Solomon,  Beaver  Falls. 
149 


SPICED    MOUNTAIN    CAKE. 

1/2  cup  butter;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  J4  nutmeg; 

S  eggs;  J4   cup  milk; 

1}4  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks  of  5  eggs, 
one  at  a  time.  Then  the  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Add  al- 
ternately y2  cup  milk,  lYz  cups  of  flour,  containing 
baking  powder.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
Divide  the  batter  into  3  jelly  cake  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  15  minutes.  When  baked  spread  with  icing  made  of 
the  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  with  2  cups  of  pulverized 
sugar.  Separate  this  into  two  parts,  using  the  larger  portion 
to  cover  layers,  and  the  smaller  for  outside  frosting.  Add 
the  juire  of  a  lemon  to  inside  icing  and  more  sugar  to  pre- 
vent running.  The  lemon  rind  to  be  grated  into  outside 
frosting. 

— Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufmann. 


SPONGE    CAKE    AND    PEACH    MELBA, 

6  eggs;  1  cup  flour; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  1  teaspoon  cornstarch; 

tablespoon  boiling  water;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

For  peach  melba,  bake  in  long  kuchen  pan,  add  straw- 
berry or  raspberry  sauce,  then  vanilla  ice  cream,  peaches  and 
sauce  on  top.    Cut  pieces  of  cake  long  enough  to  hold  J^  peach. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kingsbacher. 


SPONGE    CAKE    (PASSOVER). 

12  eggs;  rind  of  1  lemon; 

2  large  cups  granulated  sugar;        %  cup  chopped  almonds. 

1  large  cup  matzo  flour; 

Beat  yolks  very  light  with  sugar;  add  flour,  lemon  rind 
and  almonds;  lastly,  whites  beaten  stiff,  to  which  a  pinch  of 
salt  is  added. 

—Mrs.  Wm.  Frank. 
150 


BOILED   SPONGE   CAKE. 

6  eggs;  juice  of  1  lemon; 

J4   tt).  granulated  sugar;  Va    lb.  flour. 

J4  cup  water; 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  a  moderately  thick   syrup  is 

formed.     Whik  the  sugar  is  boiling,  beat  the  whites  and 

yolks  separately.    Mix  together  and  when  the  syrup  is  ready, 

pour  it  over  the  whites  and  yolks.    Beat  all  until  cold  and  then 

add  the  juice  of  the  lemon.    Lastly,  add  flour ;  fold  in  lightly. 

Grease  the  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  M.  A.  Goodstone. 

SPONGE    CAKE. 

8   eggs;  1  lemon  (juice); 

2  cups  sugar;  1  tablespoon  vinegar. 

2  cups  flour; 

Beat  Y2  hour  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

— Mrs.  J.  Prince,  Cleveland. 

SPONGE    CAKE. 

6  eggs;  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice; 

2  cups  granulated  sugar;  2  cups  sifted  flour. 

Yi   cup  boiling  water; 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks.    Beat  the  yolks  with 

the  sugar  for  about  10  minutes ;  add  the  lemon  juice  and  then 

the  water,  stirring  all  the  time.    Now,  put  in  the  whites  of  the 

eggs,  which  must  be  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  last  put  in 

your  flour.     Bake  in  two  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.     This 

cake  requires  no  baking  powder. 

— Mrs.  Helena  Trachtenberg. 

WALNUT    CAKE. 

12  eggs;  2  tablespoons  cracker  meal; 

2J4  cups  grated  walnuts;  1  small  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice;  2  cups  powdered  sugar 

Beat  yolks  very  light  with  sugar;  add  other  ingredients; 

lastly,  stiffly-beaten  whites.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  one 

hour. 

— Miss  Jonas. 

151 


SPONGE    CAKE    WITH    LEMON    FILLING. 

8  eggs;  2  tablespoons  boiling  water; 

2  cups  granulated  sugar;  2  cups  flour; 

juice  1  lemon;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  until  very  light.    Add  lemon  juice 

and  boiling  water  very  gradually.    Sift  flour  6  times  and  mix 

baking  powder  through  it.     Mix  well,  and  add  stiffly-beaten 

whites.    Bake  in  two  layers  for  30  minutes. 

Filling— 

2  eggs;  %   cup  sugar, 

rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon; 

Beat  eggs  and  add  lemon  and  sugar.  Cook  in  double  boiler 

and  Rtir  until  thick.    When  cold,  spread  between  layers. 

— Mrs.  C.  Sunstein. 

STRAWBERRY    SHORT    CAKE. 

2yi   cups  flour;  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

1J4  cups  milk;  J4  teaspoon  salt; 

4  oz.  butter;  3  tablespoons  sugar. 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder  and  rub  butter 

in  well.     Add  milk  and  spread  in  two  layer  cake  pans  and 

bake  30  or  35  minutes.     Butter  while  hot  and  spread  with 

berries  cut  in  pieces  and  sprinkled  with  sugar. 

—Dr.  J.  W.  Craven. 

TORTE  a   la  JOCHANNAH   LODGE. 

6  eggs;  '/t  cup  chopped  pecans; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon; 

Yi  cup  chopped  almonds;  12  dried  and  rolled  ladyfingers. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  very  light;  next  add  the  sugar,  al- 
monds, nuts,  lemon,  and  ladyfingers,  adding  the  whites  last. 
Bake  in  two  layers ;  put  a  thin  layer  of  white  frosting  and  add 
the  following  filling: 

1  cup  chopped  nuts;  J^  cup  milk  (scant). 

Yi  cup  granulated  sugar; 

Boil  all  together  for  10  minutes,  frost  entire  torte  and 
decorate  with  candied  cherries,  nuts,  etc. 

— ^Mrs.  Max  Hamburger,  Chicago. 
152 


WALNUT    TORTE. 

6  eggs;  3  oz.  flour; 

9  oz.  pulverized  sugar;  teaspoon   baking  powder; 

4  oz.  walnut  meats;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  yplks  and  sugar  thoroughly;  add  vanilla  and  half 
of  the  walnut  meats,  ground  fine;  next  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs;  then  stir  in  lightly  the  flour  and  baking  powder, 
sifted  well  together.  Bake  in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
cold  cover  both  layers  with  sweetened  whipped  cram,  to  which 
the  remainder  of  the  walnuts  (ground)  is  added.  Place  one 
layer  on  the  other.  Hazelnuts  can  be  used  in  pdace  of  walnuts. 

—Mrs.  S.  B.  Goldsmith. 

WHITE    CAKE. 

1   cup  granulated  sugar;  Yi  cup  milk; 

%   cup  butter,  creamed;  V/i  full  cups  flour; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  4  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

A  maple  mousse  made  of  4  yolks,  and  found  in  "Desserts," 
goes  well  with  the  cake  and  uses  the  egg  yolks. 

— Mrs.  Louis  Hirsch. 

1-2-3-4    CAKE. 

J^  cup  butter;  3  cups  flour; 

1  cup  milk;  4  eggs; 

2  cups  sugar;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Proceed  in  the  usual  manner  and  bake  moderately  in 
layers.  Is  a  simple  cake  and  one  nice  to  fill  with  jelly  or  any 
kind  of  filling. 

ZWEIBACK  TORTE. 

6  eggs;  1  cup  grated  zweiback; 

1  cup  sugar;  lemon. 

Beat  yolks  light  for  J^  hour;  add  other  ingredients,  stiff- 
ly beaten  whites  last.  Bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven.  This 
makes  two  fairly  sized  layers ;  make  a  filling  of  icing  with 
chopped  nuts  betwen  the  layers  and  cover  top  with  whipped 
cream  just  before  serving.    Simple  and  good. 

—Nettie  M.  Kaufman. 
153 


ALMOND    BARS. 

4  eggs;  1  teaspon  cloves; 

1  cup  chopped  almonds;  cinnamon; 

1  lb.  brown  sugar;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  together.    Spread  in  a  large  pan.    When  baked  cut  in 

bars. 

— Mrs.  Meyer  Kann. 

ALMOND  HEAPS. 

Yi   lb.  almonds;  3  whites  of  eggs; 

10  cents  worth  citron;  1J4  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 

Blanch  almonds  and  peel  and  cut  citron  in  long  strips; 
put  in  oven  and  brown  light  brown.  Beat  white  of  eggs  and 
add  \y^  cups  sugar  and  stir  for  J^  hour,  then  add  almonds  and 
1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Tax  wax-paper  and  lay  a  good  table- 
spoonful  in  heaps,  and  brown  a  light  brpwn. 

— Miss  Wormser. 

ALMOND    STICKS. 

4  whole  eggs;  54  teaspoon  cloves; 

1  lb.  brown  sugar;  54  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1^  cups  flour;  54  teaspoon  allspice; 

1  cup  almonds,  cut  in  strips;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

1   teaspoon  baking  powder;  2  tablespoons  grated  chocolate. 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light ;  add  sug4r  and  beat  well.  Then 
other  ingredients.  Spread  in  the  pan  J^  inch  thick  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  Ice  when  cold  and  cut  in  strips  J4  inch 
wide  and  J4  inch  long. 

—Mrs.  F.  Half. 

BROWN  SUGAR  COOKIES. 

3  cups  dark-brown  sugar;  1  cup  cold  water; 

1  cup  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

1  teaspoon  soda;  flour. 

nutmeg; 

Work  up  the  above  ingredients  into  a  dough  to  roll; 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

—Miss  B.  S. 
154 


BUTTER   COOKIES. 

1  tb.  sugar;  1  lb.  butter;  1  lemon  (juice);  Yt.  doz.  eggs. 
Mix  the  above,  add  1  wineglass  of  brandy  and  flour  enough  to 
roll  thin.    Cut  into  shapes. 

—Mrs.  M.  B.  Rothschild. 

BUTTER   DOUGH   TARTS. 

1  lb.  butter;  lemon  rind; 

IJ^  lbs.  sugar;  flour; 

94  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 

S  eggs;  Yi  cup  nuts. 

Cut  into  squares,  fill  with  raisins  and  nuts;  and  turn 
into  the  shape  of  a  horn  and  then  spread  with  egg,  nuts,  and 
bake. 

— Chicago. 

CHOCOLATE   COOKIES. 

54  lb.  Huyler's  sweet  chocolate,  grated; 

4  eggs;  1  tb.  brown  sugar; 

J4  lb.  almonds,  chopped;  1  pt.  flour; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Drop  on  large  tins  with  a  teaspoon ;  grease  pans  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  The  best  plan  is  to  try  one,  and  if  the  dough 
runs  too  much,  add  more  flour. 

— Mrs.  M.  Mona  Lesser. 

CHOCOLATE    DROP   CAKES. 

2  cups  flour;  %  lb.  almonds; 

1  cup  butter;  J4  teaspoon  cloves; 

2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

J4  lb.  Baker's  chocolate;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

1}4  cups  sugar;  vanilla. 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  together.  Stir  in  I  whole  egg  at  a 
time.  Then  add  chocolate,  spices  and  flavoring,  adding  flour, 
baking  powder  and  nuts  la^t.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  but- 
tered paper  in  tins,  and  bake  from  6  to  8  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.     "The  more  you  eat  the  more  you  want." 

—I.  W.  M.,  Chicago. 
155 


CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS. 

3  whites  of  eggs;  }4  lb.  ground  almonds; 

H  lb.  pulverized  sugar;  4  sticks  grated  chocolate. 

Mix  and  drop  on  greased  pan  with  a  teaspoon.     Bake  in 

a  very  moderate  oven.    Fine! 

CINNAMON  COOKIES. 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar;  1  teaspon  ground  allspice; 

7  eggs;  2  oz.  chopped  citron; 

2  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon;  54  teaspoon  ground  cloves; 

1  lemon;  %  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

Mix  all  and  beat  well  together ;  add  flour  enough  to  thick- 
en sufficiently  to  roll.  Then  form  it  into  shapes  of  any  kind 
desired,  and  bake  an  greased  pans,  previously  brushing  top  of 
cakes  with  egg  and  placing  a  piece  of  citron  in  center  of  each 

cake. 

— Mrs.  Josiah  Cohen. 

CRISP  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter;  1  tablespoon  milk; 

2  cups  sugar;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

3  eggs;  H  teaspoon  nutmeg; 

1  teaspoon  soda;  flour. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar; 

Add  sufficient  flour  to  the  above  mixture  to  make  a  dough 

soft  enough  to  roll,  beginning  with  1  pint,  and  working  flour 

in   gradually.     Roll   and   cut;   brush   with   sweet   milk,   and 

sprinkle  with  sugar,  and,  if  desired,  chopped  almonds.    Bake 

a  light  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

—Miss  B.  S. 

COOKIES. 

1  lb.  butter;  1  whole  egg; 

1%  cups  sugar;  1  wineglass  of  brandy; 

%  lb.  blanched  almonds;  flour. 

2  hard-boiled  eggs; 

Use  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  whole  egg,  raw;  add 
brandy  and  flour  enough  to  roll  the  dough.  Cut  into  shapes. 
Brush  on  top  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon, 
sugar,  and  chopped  almonds. 

— N.Y. 
156 


COOKIES. 

Cream  Yi  lb.  butter  and  Yz  lb.  sugar; 

add  4  eggs; 

grated  rind  of  1  lemon; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  baking  powder  and  enough  flour  to  knead  the  dough 
stiff  enough  to  roll.    Cut  out  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Mrs.  Jake  Spandau. 

COOKIES. 

6  eggs  (hard  boiled  yolks);  1  cup  milk; 

254  eggs  (raw);  3  teaspoons  yeast  powder; 

1  lb.  butter;  1  grated  lemon  rind; 

J4  lb-  sugar;  flour  enough  for  nice  dough. 

Sprinkle  sugar  on  cookies  before  baking.    Only  flour  pans. 

— Miss  Rosa  Kann. 

COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar;  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stiff; 

1  cup  melted  butter;  flour  to  stiiifen,  so  as  to  roll  out. 

Vi  lb.  almonds  (cut  in  half); 

Cut  in  strips..  Brush  with  egg  white  and  sprinkle  with 

almonds. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Dreifus. 

DATE  CAKES. 

1  lb.  dates;  J^  lb.  sugar; 

Yi  lb.  chopped  almonds;  whites  of  3  eggs. 

Butter  a  pan  and  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  bread  crumbs. 
Drop  a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  into  the  pan  for  each  cake. 

Bake. 

— New  York. 

EIER  RAEDLE. 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  (yolks  only);    J4  lb.  sugar; 

2  whole  eggs;  J4  tt>-  butter; 

1  tablespoon  cream,  and  a  little  whiskey   and   enough   flour    to   make 
stiflF  enough  to  roll  out. 

Cut  with  a  form  in  small  cakes,  and  spread  top  with 

sugar,  white  of  &%%  and  almonds.    Very  good. 

— Miss  Wormser. 

157 


DELICIOUS  COOKIES. 

Yi  cup  butter;  1  lemon; 

cup  sugar;  tablespoon  brandy; 

2  eggs;  flour; 

teaspoon  baking  powder;  hickory  nuts. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  eggs,  rind  and  juice 
of  the  lemon,  the  brandy,  baking  powder,  and  flour  sufficient 
to  roll  out  very  thin.  On  top,  before  baking,  put  some  white  of 
egg,  a  little  sugar,  and  hickory  nuts  cut  fine. 

— Bessie  Cohn,  Cleveland,  O. 

FRUIT  ROUNDS. 

Cut  rounds  from  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread ;  chop  J4  tb. 
candied  pineapple  and  J4  tt).  candied  cherries,  and  boil  in  a 
syrup  made  of  4  tablespoons  sugar  and  3  tablespoons  water. 
When  cool,  add  juice  of  Y^  orange ;  butter  the  bread  and  spread 
with  mixture.    Also  nice  accessory  to  an  afternoon  tea. 

GERMAN  COOKIES. 

6  eggs;  1  lb.  butter; 

1  qt.  flour;  3J4   spoons  baking  powder. 

1  tfo.  sugar; 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  break  in  1  egg 
at  a  time.  Sift  the  flour  carefully,  twice,  and  add  the  baking 
powder  to  it.  Now,  mix>  all  ingredients  together,  roll  out 
smoothly  and  cut  into  small  cakes.    Bake  10  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Henry  Jackson. 

GUSKY  COOKIES. 

1  tb.  butter;  4  teaspoons  cinnamon; 

Vz  lb.  almonds;  54  lb-  citron; 

1  lb.  brown  sugar;  flour  to  roll. 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner.  If  dough  is  too  short  to  roll, 
press  evenly  into  tins  by  hand.  Brush  with  white  of  egg  be- 
fore baking  and  cut  into  small  squares  immediately  upon  tak- 
ing from  oven,  and  before  removing  from  pan.  Press  half 
an  almond  into  center  of  each  square. 

— Mrs.  Esther  Gusky. 
158 


HERMITS  (COOKIES.) 

1-3  cup  butter;  1  teaspoon  crea  mof  tartar; 

1  eup  sugar;  %  teaspoon  ground  cloves; 

1  egg;  54  teaspon  fround  cinnamon; 

%  cup  water;  %  teaspoon  nutmeg; 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  powder;  2  or  3  cup  flour; 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  add  beaten  egg  and  water ; 

sift  the  cream  of  tartar,  soda  and  spices  with  flour,  and  add. 

Roll  very  thin  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kornhauser. 

HOME-MADE  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar;  1  small  teaspoon  soda; 

Yi  cup  butter;  Yi  lemon  (juice); 

1  egg;  flour  enough  to  make  soft  dough, 

%  cup  water. 

Roll  thin. 

— Mrs.  K.  Solomon. 

JELLY  CAKES. 

}^  lb.  butter;  2  eggs; 

54   lb-   powdered  sugar;  10  oz.  flour. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  add  yolks  of  eggs.  Stir 

and  add  flour.    Roll  into  small  balls ;  spread  with  yolk  of  egg. 

Make  indentation  on  top  with  little  finger,  and  fill  with  jelly 

and  bake  in  oven. 

JUMBLES 

1  fb.  butter;  9  teaspoons  orange  juice; 

1  lb.  sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt  (scant); 

2  lbs.  sifted  pastry  flour;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

3  eggs; 

Handle  lightly;  roll  rather  thin,  and  sprinkle  with  granu- 
lated sugar.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Carrie  B.  Goodrich. 

MARGUERITES. 

Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  to  a  stiff  froth ;  stir  into  it  2  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar  and  4  heaping  tablespoons  chopped 
walnuts.  Mix  well  and  spread  upoQ  long,  narrow  crackers. 
Set  in  a  quick  oven  and  color  lightly. 

159 


MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

2  cups  molasses;  1  cup  butter  and  lard,  mixed;  1  egg;  3 
teaspoons  soda,  dissolved  in  J^  cup  boiling  water;  piece  of 
alum  size  of  a  pea,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water ;  flour  enough 
to  mix  and  roll  as  soft  as  passible ;  1  heaping  teaspoon  ginger ; 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

—Mrs.  L.  M.  Hatfield. 

MOTHER'S  ORANGE  JUMBLES. 

(Original.) 

1   cup   granulated  sugar;  1    cup   sour   cream; 

5^  cup  butter;  Flour; 

1  egg  and  yolk  of  second  egg;      J4  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange; 

Make  a  soft  "cookie"  dough,  adding  flour  as  required. 
Roll,  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar;  cut  with  a  jumble  cutter, 
and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 

—Mrs.  M.  A.  Goodstone. 

NUT  PUFFS. 

yicup  flour;  3  eggs; 

2  teaspoons  sugar;  Pinch   salt; 

1  cup  milk;  J4  cup  nuts  (ground). 

Beat  very  light  and  bake  in  previously  heated  gem  pans, 
in  hot  oven. 

\ 

OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

3  cups   rolled  oats;  1  cup  chopped  nuts; 
5  tablespoons  sweet  milk;  1  scant  cup  butter; 

2  cups  flour;  1  heaping  cup  raisins; 

1  teaspoon  soda;  1   teaspoon  cinnamon; 

2  scant  cups  sugar;  2  eggs. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  drop  in  whole  eggs,  and  add 
other  ingredients  in  any  order  convenient.  Drop  on  butter 
tins  with  a  spoon,  and  bake  in  medium  oven. 

— Sophie  T.  Fleishman. 
160 


PARIS  STICKS. 

3   cups   chopped  almonds;  2%  cups  pulverized  sugar; 

Grated  rinds  of  2  lemons. 

Whites  of  5  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiflE  froth; 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  roll  out  on  pulverized  sugar; 
cut  into  strips  an  inch  wide,  and  put  into  paraffined  pans.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven.    Excellent. 

PEANUT  COOKIES. 

2  tablespoons  butter;  Yi  teaspoon  salt; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  Yi     cup  flour; 

J4  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  milk; 

Yi  teaspoon  lemon  juice;  Y^   cup   finely-chopped  peanuts. 

1  egg; 

Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  unbuttered  tins  about  an  inch 
Apart,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

— Mrs.  Wm.  Kaufman. 

SNOW  FLAKES. 

1  Clip  flour;  Pinch  salt; 

2  hard  boiled  eggs;  1  tablespoon  brandy. 

Grate  the  eggs  and  mix  all  together,  as  for  a  noodle 
dough.  Place  on  board  and  work  until  perfectly  smooth ;  then 
roll  out  thin ;  cut  into  strips  Ij^  inches  wide  and  3  inches  long. 
Drop  into  skillet  of  boiling  chicken  or  beef  fat,  being  careful 
not  to  burn.  Lift  on  a  brown  paper  to  drain;  then  place  on 
serving  plate  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Delicious. 

— Mrs.  M.  A.  Goodstone. 

SPLENDID  COOKIES. 

4  eggs;  IJ^    teaspoons    cinnamon; 
2  cups  sugar;  IJ^   teaspoons  cloves; 

IS  cents'  worth  almonds;  1  lemon; 

5  cents'  worth  cirton;  Y^  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  other  ingredients 

and  the  grated'  rind  of  lemon,  only ;  mix  the  baking  powder 

with  sufficient  flour  to  roll.    Roll  thin,  and  bake.    These  are 

at  their  best  when  a  week  old. 

— ^Mrs.  I.  Coblens. 

161 


SPICE  COOKIES. 

1   tb.  brown  sugar;  1   teaspoon  cloves; 

Yolks  of  5  eggs;  1  teaspoon  allspice; 

Whites  of  3  eggs;  2  teaspoons  cinnamon; 

Rind  and  juice   of  1  lemon;  5  cents'  worth  almonds   (cut); 

Vz  teaspoon  vanilla;  S   cents'   worth   citron    (cut). 

Pinch  of  salt; 

Add  flour  to  make  them  quite  stiff ;  spread  in  buttered  pan. 
Bake  in  quick  oven.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs ;  add  enough  sugar 
to  make  very  stiff ;  spread  this  icing  while  the  cake  is  hot,  and 
cut  while  hot. 

— Fannie  A.  Kahn. 

TOURRAINE  CHOCOLATES. 

Slice  whole  wheat  bread,  and  butter  before  slicing;  then 
cut  into  strips  1  inch  wide.  Cover  each  piece  with  melted 
sweet  chocolate;  sprinkle  thin  with  finely-chopped  nuts,  and 
stand  aside  for  an  hour  to  harden.  These  are  nice  to  serve 
with  afternoon  tea. 

— Anon. 

QUICK  CINNAMON  CAKE. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  1  small  cup  milk  or  water; 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

2  eggs;  Flour   to   thicken. 

Mix  above  ingredients.  Sprinkle  granulated  sugar  and 
icinnamon  over  top  of  cake,  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

— Mrs.  L.  Sulzbacher,  Braddock,  Pa. 

VANILLA  KIPFEL. 

1    tb.  flour;  3  oz.  powdered  sugar; 

1   tb.  butter;  Pinch  salt. 

4  oz.  grated  almonds; 

Knead  well  together.     Cut  dough  into  pieces  one  inch 
square  and  form  into  shape  of  half  moon.    Bake  very  slowly 
until  light  yellow.     When  taken  from  oven,  roll  into  sifted 
powdered  sugar,  into  which  some  vanilla  bean  has  been  grated. 
— Mrs.  L.  Deutsch,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 
162 


WALNUT  COOKIES. 


1  tb.  butter. 

3  eggs; 

1  tb.  sugar; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

3  tablespoons  brandy; 

54  teaspoon  cloves; 


54  teaspoon  allspice; 
2  tbs.  walnuts  (chopped  fine); 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 
Flour  (enough  to  roll); 
Sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top. 

— N.  Y. 


HERMITS. 


1  cup  butter; 
Z  emus,  sugar; 
3  eggs; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 


1  cup  milk; 
3  cups  flour; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

2  cups  raisins,  chopped. 


Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  gem  pans,  very  good.    This 
amount  makes  24  cakes. 

— ^Miss  Parsons. 


163 


MEMORANDUM. 


164 


MEMORANDUM. 


165 


MEMORANDUM 


166 


APRICOT  SHERBET. 

1  can  apricots;  1  scant  qt.  water. 

2  cups  sugar; 

Remove  fruit  from  the  syrup,  and  skim  from  the  fruit,  and 
cut  fruit  into  small  pieces.  Boil  2  cups  sugar  with  a  scant 
cup  water.    When  cold,  mix  all  together  and  freeze.  Delicious. 

— Sophie  F.  Fleishman. 

BEST  PEACH  ICE  CREAM. 

1  qt,  cream;  1  pt.  peaches; 

lyi  cups  sugar;  %.  teaspoon  almond  flavor. 

Cut,  mash  and  strain  a  liberal  pint  of  ripe  peaches;  add 
sugar,  and  flavor,  and  stir  cream  in  slowly.  This  amount 
makes  2  quarts  of  ice  cream,  when  frozen. 

— Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufmann. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

1  generous  pt.  milk;  2  eggs; 

1-3  cup  flour*  1  qt.  cream; 

1  scant  cup  sugar;  1  cup  sugar  (caramelized); 

Pinch  salt;  1  tablespoon  flavoring. 

Place  milk  in  double  boiler  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Beat  to- 
gether first  cup  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  eggs,  and  stir  into  milk. 
Cook  20  minutes,  mostly  stirring,  and  when  boiled  15  minutes, 
caramelize  second  cup  sugar,  by  melting  in  a  granite  pan  over 
the  fire,  and  browning  .  Turn  this  hot  sugar  into  the  custard, 
which  has  now  cooked  20  minutes;  mix  thoroughly  and  re- 
move from  fire.    Cool,  drain,  add  cream  and  flavor,  and  freeze. 

— Anon. 
167 


CANTON  ICE  CREAM. 

1  small  pot  preserved  ginger;  Beaten  whites  of  4  eggs; 

1  pt.  cream;  J^  cup  sugar. 

1  pt.  milk; 

Drain  off  juice  and  chop  ginger.  Scald  milk  and  cream; 
add  ginger  juice,  and  pour  mixture  over  whites  of  eggs.  Put 
in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  Cool  and  freeze.  When 
stiff,  remove  dasher ;  add  ginger,  stir  well  and  then  pack  tight- 
ly and  set  away  in  freezer  for  2  hours  before  serving. 

— H.  S.  K. 

COFFEE  CUSTARD  CREAM. 

1  pt.  cream;  %  cup  very  strong  coffee; 

3  eggs;  }^  cup  chopped  nut  meats; 

1   pt.   milk;  J4  cup  chopped  cherries; 

J4  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon  cornstarch. 

Mix  cream,  milk  eggs  and  sugar;  beat  well.  Boil  till 
slightly  stiff;  add  cherries  and  nijts  when  partly  cooled,  and 
coffee  last.    Freeze. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

1  pt.  coffee;  1,J^  cups  granulated  sugar; 

2  teaspoons    essence   coffee;  1  qt.  cream. 

To  1  pt.  strong  coffee  add  Ij^  cups  granulated  sugar,  and 
bring  to  a  boil.  When  cool,  add  2  teaspoons  essence  of  Turk- 
ish coffee  flavor,  and  1  qt.  cream,  and  freeze. 

—Mrs.  M.  D.  Kaufmann. 

FRUIT  FRAPPE. 

V/z  cups  sugar;  3  cups  water. 

Boil  5  minutes ;  add  1  cup  mashed  fruit,  juice  of  1  lemon 
and  2  oranges.  Beat  until  cold,  then  add  3  Ggg  whites;  J^ 
cup  rum  or  sherry;  and  freeze  soft.  A  frappe  never  should 
be  stiffer  than  mush,  and  is  served  in  glasses  at  afternoon  teas. 

For  Coffee  or  Tea  Frappe — Strong  coffee  or  tea  may  be 
substituted  instead  of  fruit,  and  are  served  with  a  spoonful  of 
whipped  cream  on  top  of  each  glass.' 

168 


MAPLE  ICE  CREAM. 

6  eggs  (yolks);  %   lb.  almonds; 

1   cup   maple   syrup;  1  pt.  whipped  cream. 

Beat  eggs;  add  syrup;  boil  until  thick  in  double  boiler, 
beating  all  the  time.  Take  from  the  fire,  beat  until  half  cold. 
Add  almonds  and  whipped  cream  when  cold ;  then  freeze. 

— Mrs.  H.  M.  Lipman. 

MAPLE  NOUGAT. 

Filling  for  Ice  Cream. 

H  lb.  maple  sugar;  Butter,  size  of  an  egg; 

1   cup  lukewarm  cream;  1  cup  walnuts  or  pecans. 

Melt  sugar  in  pan  on  stove  until  thin  as  syrup ;  add  cream 
to  this ;  then  the  butter.  Let  cool  until  thick  in  double  boiler ; 
add  cup  of  chopped  nuts.    Serve  hot  on  vanilla  ice  cream. 

MILK  SHERBET. 

1  qt.  milk;  2   cups   sugar; 

lemons;  Water. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  milk  and  place  in  freezer.  With 
a  sharp  knife  pare  ofif,  quite  thin,  the  yellow  rind  of  a  few 
lemons,  and  boil  this  in  a  small  quantity  of  water.  When  the 
milk  is  thoroughly  chilled,  add  1  cup  of  the  strained  lemon 
juice  and  the  water  in  which  the  rind  was  boiled,  and  freeze 
in  the  usual  way.  This  is  really  a  "diet  kitchen"  dish,  and 
people  who  can  take  milk,  can  digest  this. 

—Mrs.  S.  S.  Loeb. 

RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

S  eggs;  1  qt.  cream; 

2J4  cups  sugar;  3  pts.  raspberries; 

1  teaspoon  vanilla;  J4  lemon. 

The  yolks  of  5  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  with  1  cup  sugar ; 
add  vanilla  and  mix  with  cream  and  freeze  until  half  frozen ; 
then  add  raspberries,  mashed,  with  1>4  cups  sugar  and  juice 
of  yi  lemon.     Strain  through  cheesecloth  bag  and  freeze. 

— Amelia  H.  Cohen. 
169       ' 


NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

Chestnuts;  Wineglass   sherry; 

2  cups  granulated  sugar;  1  pt.  whipped  cream; 

Fruit;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
4  eggs; 

Boil  a  handful  of  nuts  tender;  peel  and  wash  them;  cut 
small  quantity  candied  fruit  such  as  cherries  and  pineapple, 
and  cover  with  the  sherry.  Boil  the  sugar  in  a  cup  of  water 
for  15  minutes.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  very  light,  and  when  sugar 
and  water  are  cooked  sufificiently,  take  off  and  stir  eggs 
through  this.  Then  stir  over  the  fire  again  until  it  reaches  boil- 
ing point.  Then  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  whipped  cream,  the 
fruit,  wine,  chestnuts  and  vanilla.    Place  in  a  mold  and  freeze 

4  hours. 

—Detroit. 

STRAWBERRY  WATER  ICE. 

1  qt.  strawberry  juice;  1  lb.  sugar; 

2  lemons    (juice);  1  pt.  water. 

Mix ;  stand  aside  for  1  hour ;  then  freeze. 

— B.  Rothschild. 

TORTONI  ICE  CREAM. 

1  pt.  whipped  cream;  1  doz.  stale  macaroons; 

1  cup  maple  syrup;  eggs. 

Roll  macaroons  fine ;  stir  eggs  and  macaroons ;  add  maple 
syrup ;  lastly,  whipped  cream,  and  freeze. 

—Mrs.  J.  A.  Perley. 

YELLOW  PARFAIT. 

6  egg-yolks;  1  pt.  cream; 

1  cup  sugar;  Flavoring. 

54  cup  water; 

Beat  eggs  thick  and  add  to  them  the  sugar,  boiled  in 
the  water  for  5  minutes.  Return  to  double  boiler;  cook 
until  mixture  coats  the  spoon;  then  strain;  beat  until  cold; 
add  the  cream,  whipped  stiff,  and  flavoring.  Mix  thoroughly; 
turn  into  molds ;  pack  and  cover  with  ice  for  4  or  5  hours. 

170 


VIOLET  ICE  CREAM. 

3  cups  cream;  Flavoring; 

1  scant  cup  sugar;  1  cup  milk; 

Dash  of  salt;  J^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  tablespoon  violet  flavoring,  or  creme  yvette  cordial; 

Scald  milk  and  cream;  beat  until  cold;  add  ingredients 
and  flavorings,  till  a  pale  violet  is  obtained ;  then  freeze  in  the 
usual  way,  and  garnish  the  served  cream  with  1  oz.  candied 
violets. 

If  a  rose-colored  ice  is  desired,  use  rose. water  instead  of 
violet  coloring,  and  garnish  with  candied  rose  leaves. 


171 


MEMORANDUM 


1T2 


MEMORANDUM 


173 


MEMORANDUM. 


174 


mm 


1  pt.  flour; 
1  cup  water; 


BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

1    teaspoon  salt. 


Mix  into  a  stiflF  dough;  transfer  to  floured  baking  board 
and  pound  hard  for  10  minutes.  Cut,  prick  with  straw,  and 
bake  in  a  brisk  oven.    Some  add  a  tablespoon  butter. 


CORN  PONES. 

Cold  water; 
1  pinch  soda. 


1  pt.  corn  meal; 
1  pinch  salt; 

Mix  meal,  soda  and  salt  first ;  tbeft^  add  sufficient  water  to 
make  a  stiff  dough  enough  to  mold  into  small  loaves,  or  pones, 
about  3  inches  long.     Bake- well  on  buttered  pan. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Roll  rich  pastry  j4  inch  thick ;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese ; 

fold  twice,  and  roll  out  again.    Repeat  this  twice.    Then  cut 

into  strips  J4  inch  wide  and  3  inches  long.    Grate  little  cheese 

on  top,  and  bake. 

—Detroit. 

* 
CROUTON  STICKS. 

Cut  bread  into  J^-inch  slices ;  remove  crust ;  spread  slight- 
ly with  butter  on  both  sides;  cut  into  strips  J4  inch  wide. 
Bake  until  light  brown.    Serve  with  cheese  or  soup  or  salad. 

175 


ENGLISH  MUFFINS. 

Make  a  batter  from  1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled;  J4 
yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  J^  cup  lukewarm  water,  1>4  cups  flour; 
34  cup  soft  butter,  and  y^  level  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  well  to 
make  the  batter  light  and  smooth.  Cover  and  let  rise  until 
very  light,  and  bake  in  hot  greased  muffin  rings  on  a  griddle. 
Turn  once,  to  have  a  thin  brown  crust  on  both  sides. 

EGG  BREAD. 

1  pt.  white  corn  meal;  }4  pt  buttermilk; 

1  egg;  A  little  salt; 

1  large  tablespoon  flour;  1   large  tablespoon  water. 

y-i  teaspoon  soda; 

Mix  all  ingredients,  except  meal  and  flour,  together  first, 
beating  these  in  later.    Bake  in  buttered  pan  or  muffin  tins. 
— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 


HOME-MADE  BREAD. 

1  sifter  of  flour  to  each  large  loaf.  1  cake  compressed 
yeast  for  4  loaves.  (Test  the  yeast  by  adding  salt,  sugar  and 
lukewarm  water.  If  fresh,  it  will  be  ready  for  the  mixture  in 
20  minutes).  1  pt.  of  "wetting"  to  each  loaf.  "Wetting"  con- 
sists of  1-3  milk,  scalded  and  cooled,  and  2-3  water.  Use  dis- 
cretion in  having  all  ingredients  at  proper  temperature. 
Dough  should  never  be  raised  rapidly,  nor  covered  too  warmly. 
Mix  ingredients  with  salt  to  taste,  using  sufficient  flour  to 
stififen  at  once,  and  kneading  the  dough  for  fully  Yt.  hour. 
Spread  top  of  same  with  melted  butter,  to  prevent  crusting; 
cover  and  let  raise  during  night.  Next  morning,  handle  only 
sufBciently  to  mold.  (Finer  bread  is  produced  by  braiding). 
Cover  and  raise  slowly  second  time;  brush  with  beaten  egg; 
sprinkle  with  poppy  seed  and  bake.  When  baked,  brush  with 
salt  water  and  cover  lightly. 

— Mrs.  J.  S.  Kaufman. 
176 


MUFFINS. 

2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  sugar; 

J4  teaspoon  salt;  1  egg; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  J^  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  butter; 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together;  rub  in  the 
butter;  then  the  sugar;  the  beaten  egg,  and  the  milk.  Bake 
quickly,  about  8  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Morris  Kingsbacher. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

2  qts.  flour;  Pinch  salt; 
1  qt.  milk;                                            Yeast; 

3  oz.  butter;  Tiny  bit  sguar. 

Boil  and  cool  milk;  butter  in  it;  work  up  batter  with 
half  the  flour  and  one  cup  yeast ;  set  to  raise ;  stiffen  with  re- 
maining flour  and  raise  again.  When  light,  cut  out  and  bake, 
after  raising  again.  If  desired,  pocket  rolls  can  be  made 
of  them.  This  is  done  by  cutting  each  piece  of  dough  intended 
for  a  roll,  spreading  upper  side  with  melted  butter,  and  folding 
half  over. 

POTATO  ROLLS. 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes;  1  cup  flour; 

2  eggs;  Vz   cup  lukewarm  water; 
y^  cup  butter;  1  cup  milk; 

Salt  to  taste;  1    piece    compressed   yeast. 

Beat  ingredients  together.  Let  raise  two  hours;  then 
make  into  stiff  dough  and  let  raise  Ij^  hours.  Roll  into  sheets 
1  inch  thick.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter ;  put  into  a  pan ;  let  raise 
Vy-i  hours.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PULLED  BREAD. 

Remove  crust  from  fresh  bread;  tear  into  small  strips; 
brown  in  hot  oven. 

177 


POP-OVERS. 

1  cup  flour;  1  egg; 

1  cup  milk;  Pinch  salt. 

Mix  all  well  together.     Have  Muffin  rings  well  heated 

and  greased;  fill  each  ring  half  full  of  batter  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  from  20  to  30  minutes.  This  mixture  will  make  12  pop- 
overs. 

—Mrs.  W.  L.  Kann. 

QUICK  LUNCH  BISCUIT. 

1  cake  Fleishmann's  yeast;  %  level  teaspoonful  salt; 

1  teaspoon  sugar;  1  rounded  cup  sifted  flour; 

Yz  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  butter. 

Heat  milk  to  trifle  above  blood  heat  (about  100  de- 
grees) and  dissolve  thoroughly  therein  the  yeast  and  sugar; 
put  butter  in  mixing  bowl  and  place  over  a  fire  a  mo- 
ment to  melt;  add  to  it  the  milk  containing  yeast  and  sugar; 
then  add  the  salt  and  flour  and  stir  until  smooth.  Throw  a 
good  handful  of  flour  over  center  of  kneading  board;  flour 
hands  well,  turn  out  dough  and  form  into  large  ball;  replace 
in  mixing  bowl,  cover  bowl  with  pie  tin  and  let  raise  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  very  warm  place ;  then  roll  out  to  J4  inch  in  thick- 
ness; cut  into  biscuits;  place  in  greased  baking  pan;  butter 
sides  to  prevent  sticking  together ;  then  place  baking  pan  over 
bowl  half  filled  with  hot  water  and  cover  with  pie  tin  or 
greased  paper ;  let  raise  30  minutes ;  then  bake  for  10  minutes 
in  hot  oven.  Makes  one  dozen  and  takes  about  one  hour.  You 
will  find  these  biscuits  far  superior  to  those  made  with  pre- 
pared flour,  etc.  In  fact,  this  recipe,  closely  followed,  makes 
the  very  finest,  most  healthful  biscuits  makable. 

SPANISH  BUNS. 

1  pt.  brown  sugar;  1   qt.  flour; 

4  eggs;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

1   cup  sweet  milk;  Cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves  to  taste. 

1  cup  melted  butter; 

Reserve  2  whites  for  icing.  Bake  in  a  dripper;  ice,  and 
cut  in  squares. 

178 


SPOON  CORN  BREAD. 

^  cup  corn  meal;  2  tablespoons  butter; 

1  pt.  milk;  4  eggs. 

Yi   teaspoon  salt; 

Pour  hot  milk  over  corn  meal  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add 
salt;  stir  in  butter,  and  let  stand  until  lukewarm.  Add  the 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  cook 
Yn  hour  in  a  quick  oven.    Delicious  with  maple  syrup. 

— Carrie  B.  Goodrich. 

SWEET  MUFFINS. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  2  cups  flour; 

1  cup  milk;  2  eggs; 

1   tablespoon  sugar;  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Cream   butter;  add  sugar,   beaten  egg  yolks,   milk  and 

sifted  baking  powder;  last,  beaten  whites.     Bake  in  greased 

tins  in  quick  oven. 

WHITE  BREAD— SPONGE  METHOD. 

(For  Use  in  the  Morning.) 

1  cake  Pleishmann's  yeast;  IJ^   qts.   lukewarm  water; 

1  tablespoon  salt;  4J^  qts.  sifted  flour. 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  1  qt.  lukewarm  water,  and  add  to 

it  2  qts.  sifted  flour,  or  sufificient  to  make  an  ordinary  sponge ; 

set  aside  to  raise  for  about  2  hours  to  2j4  hours.    When  well 

risen,  add  to  it  the  pint  of  lukewarm  water  in  which  the  salt 

has  been  dissolved;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  to 

piake  a  moderately  stiff  dough.     Knead  thoroughly  and  set 

g,side  to  raise  for  IJ^  to  2  hours.    When  light,  turn  out  on  a 

well-floured   kneading  board   and   knead   thoroughly;   divide 

into  4  equal  parts  and  place  in  well  greased  baking  pans.    Let 

raise  again  for  about  1  hour.    When  light,  bake  for  1  hour  in 

a  moderate  oven.     After  bread  is  baked,  remove  the  loaves 

from  the  pans  and  lean  them  against  the  empty  pans,  so  as  to 

cool  the  loaves  by  contact  with  the  air  on  all  sides.     This 

recipe  makes  4  large  loaves.    The  whole  process  takes  from 

6  to  6^  hours,  and,  if  followed  closely,  will  produce  very 

good  results. 

179 


SCOTCH  SCONES. 

1  qt.  flour;  Sour  milk  or  buttermilk; 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar;  2  teaspoon  sugar; 

1  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  adding  sufficient  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  mix  with  a  knife. 
Roll  with  a  little  flour  (not  quite  as  thick  as  for  biscuits) ;  cut 
with  the  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  on  a  soapstone  griddle,  on 
top  of  stove,  turning  as  required.  Have  the  dough  as  soft  as 
you  can  possibly  handle  it.  These  are  supposed  to  be  eaten 
warm. 

—Nettie  M.  Kaufman. 

WHITE  BREAD— QUICK  METHOD. 

2  cakes   Fleishmann's  yeast;  1   qt.   lukewarm  water; 

1  teaspoon  salt;  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard; 

2  tablespoons  sugar; 

3J^  qts.  sifted  flour  (equal  to  3  lbs.  unsifted  flour); 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  half  the  water  and  in  the  other 
half  dissolve  the  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  the  water 
containing  the  yeast,  salt  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  gradually 

3  quarts  of  the  flour.  Now  work  in  the  lard  or  butter,  and 
make  a  moderately  stiff  dough.  Knead  well  for  10  or 
15  minutes;  then  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  to 
raise  until  light,  which  will  be  in  from  2  to  2J^  hours.  Cover 
with  cloth  or  paper  to  prevent  crust  forming  on  top.  When 
light,  make  into  loaves  with  the  hand;  place  in  well-greased 
pans  and  set  to  raise  again  for  45  minutes.  When  light,  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  from  %  hour  to  1  hour.  The  extra  pint  of 
flour  will  be  needed  to  keep  kneading  board  well  floured  when 
kneading  and  forming  into  loaves.  This  makes  three  Ij^  lb. 
loaves,  The  whole  process  takes  about  4  hours.  Half  milk 
a;nd  half  water  may  be  used  instead  of  all  water  if  a  richer  loaf 
is  desired.  Young  housekeepers  who  have  never  done  any 
baicing  have  been  eminently  successful  by  following  this 
recipe. 

180 


THE  BEST  BISCUITS. 

1  qt.  flour;  1  pt.  buttermilk  (or  sour  milk); 

1  large  tablespoon  shortening;        1-3  teaspoon  soda; 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Proceed  as  with  ordinary  biscuit. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

TEA  BISCUIT. 

1  qt.  flour;  Ij/i  cups  sweet  milk; 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  J4  teaspoon  salt, 
butter,  the  size  of  an  egg; 

Rub  butter  well  in  flour  into  which  has  been  sifted  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  and  salt.  Then  add  milk,  and  mix  well 
with  a  fork.    Roll  quite  soft  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

—Mrs.  h.  M.  Hatfield. 


181 


MEMORANDUM. 


182 


MEMORANDUM 


183 


MEMORANDUM 


184 


reserve^ 


BAR-LE-DUC. 

To  1  lb.  currants  take  1  lb.  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  in  the 
kettle  and  add  very  little  water,  to  make  a  very  rich  syrup. 
Boil  until  it  thickens  r  then  add  the  currants,  which  have  been 
stemmed  and  washed,  then  weighed.  Boil  about  10  minutes, 
and  put  into  jelly  glasses.    Serve  with  cream,  cheese  or  meat. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES. 

Make  a  syrup  the  same  as  for  preserving;  let  it  come  to  a 
boil ;  then  skim ;  lay  in  peaches  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of 
the  preserving  kettle  and  cook  until  they  are  tender  and  trans- 
parent, but  not  "mushy."  Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  skimmer 
and  place  carefully  in  jars.  Crack  some  of  the  pits,  put  in  the 
syrup  and  cook  15  minutes,  or  until  slightly  thickened;  add 
brandy,  J4  cup  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  take  at  once  from 
the  fire ;  strain  the  hot  syrup,  then  pour  it'  over  the  peaches  in 
the  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Yi  bu.  tomatoes;  V^  lb.  white  sugar; 

6  red  peppers;  %,  pt.  salt; 

Yi  pk.  onions;  }i  ot  5  cents'  worth  ground  cloves; 

14  of  5  cents'  worth  allspice;  IJ^qts.  cider  vinegar. 

14  oi  5  cents'  worth  ground  ginger; 

J4  of  5  cents'  worth  ground  cinnamon; 

Stew  and  strain  tomatoes;  chop  peppers  fine;  then  add 
other  ingredients  and  boil  about  two  hours.    Bottle  and  seal 

with  sealing  wax. 

—Mrs.  J.  Weil. 

185 


CHILI  SAUCE. 

5  large  onions;  5  tablespoons  sugar; 

8  green  peppers;  3  tablespoons  salt; 

30  ripe  tomatoes;  8  cups  vinegar; 

Chop  onions,  peppers  and  tomatoes  fine;  add  sugar,  salt 

and  vinegar.     Mix  all  together  and  boil  2j4  hours.     Put  in 

glass  jars. 

— Mrs.  J.  A.  Perley. 


CHOW-CHOW. 

%pk.  green  beans;  Vz  pk.  small  white  onions; 

2  heads  cauliflower;  SO  small  pickles. 

Boil  whole  beans  until  almost  tender;  scald  and  peel 
onions;  parboil  cauliflour;  put  beans,  cauliflower,  onions  and 
the  pickles  in  a  crock,  covered  with  strong  salt  brine.  In  24 
hours,  drain  and  pour  the  following  boiling  hot  mixture  over 
the  chow-chow: 

1  cup  flour;  1  cup  sugar; 

2  cups  Coleman's  mustard;  1  teaspoon  tumeric. 

Moisten  until  smooth  with  best  cider  vinegar;  then  stir 
into  1  gallon  of  boiling  vinegar.  Keep  stirring  to  prevent 
scorching.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  the  chow- 
chow.    Add  more  vinegar  in  case  it  is  not  covered. 

— Mrs.  B.  May. 

CORN  RELISH. 

1  doz  ears  com  (boil  10  minutes  and  when  cold  cut  off  the 
cob.) 

1  head  cabbage;  2  tablespons  mustard  seed; 

1  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  celery  seed. 

3  pts   vinegar; 

6  peppers  (4  green  and  2  red)  chopped  fine; 

Salt  to  taste.    Mix  all  together  and  boil  20  minutes. 

— ^Mrs.  Herman  Mayer. 
186 


CORN  SALAD. 

1  doz.  ears  corn  cut  off  cob;  2  cups  brown  sugar; 

1  head  cabbage;  1  gal.  vinegar. 

1  bunch  celery;  1  tablespoon  tumeric; 

2  red  peppers;  2  tablespoons  mustard; 
2  green  peppers; 

Salt  to  taste.  Chop  up  or  put  through  Meat  grinder.  Mix 
all  together  and  boil  20  minutes.    Put  in  Mason  jars. 

— Mrs.  M.  Solomon,  Beaver  Falls,  Pa. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Wash  currants  thoroughly  without  stemming  them,  bare- 
ly covering  them  with  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  until  fruit 
is  mashed.  Drain  through  a  jelly  bag;  take  equal  quantities  of 
juice  and  sugar  and  boil  for  20  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Barney  May. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

1  doz.  large  cucumbers;  1  qt.  small  onions; 

Yt  pk.  green  tomatoes;  6  bunches  celery. 

Chop  ingredients  fine,  and  lay  in  mild  salt  water  over 

night.     Drain  oflf  water.     Take  3  qts.  of  vinegar  and  1  qt. 

water,  3  lbs.  sugar.     Let  that  boil  15  minutes.     Put  chopped 

pickle  into  boiling  vinegar;  let  come  to  a  boil.     Put  in  jars, 

and  add  mixed  spices. 

— Henrietta  S.  Ehrman. 

EUCHERED  PEACHES. 

7    lbs.    pared    peaches    (clingstones); 

4  lbs.  sugar;  10   sticks   cinnamon; 

1  pt.  wine  vinegar;  2  doz.  cloves. 

Put  all  in  a  pot,  and  from  the  time  it  starts  to  boil,  leave 
boil  15  minutes;  put  in  a  crock  or  jar.  The  second  day,  pour 
off  juice  and  leave  boil  10  minutes  again,  and  pour  over  the 
peaches.  The  third  day,  pour  oflf  the  juice  and  boil  IS  minutes 
again ;  pour  over  the  peaches  and  close. 

— Mrs.  Louise  Schwarz. 
187 


FRENCH  SAUCE. 

5^  pk.  green  tomatoes;  3  tablespoons  cloves;" 

1  large  head  cabbage;  3  tablespoons  salt; 

9  white  onions;  1  cup  sugar; 

1   red  pepper;  J^  lb  mustard  seed. 
1  tablespoon  allspice; 

Chop  all  together ;  cover  with  vinegar,  and  boil  Yz  hour. 

— Mrs.  Ludwig  Kaufman. 

FRENCH  PICKLE. 

1  pk.  green  tomatoes;  1  cup  salt. 

1  qt.  onions; 

Slice  and  let  them  stand  over  night  with  salt  well  sprinkled 
through.  In  the  morning  drain  oflf  liquid  and  cook  20  minutes 
in  1  qt.  vinegar  and  2  qts.  water.     Drain  that  ofif.     Then  take 

2  qts.  vinegar ;  J4  tt>-  mustard  seed,  3  lbs.  brown  sugar ;  1  table- 
spoon allspice ;  1  tablespoon  cloves ;  1  tablespoon  cinnamon ;  1 
tablespoon  ginger.    Boil  15  minutes,  and  seal  in  hot  jars. 

—Mrs.  L.  M.  Hatfield. 

GINGERED  PEARS. 

8  tbs.  Seckle  or  other  pears;  J4  tb.  candied  ginger  root; 

8  lbs.  granulated  sugar;  4  lemons. 

Chip  or  slice  pears  and  ginger  root.  Boil  these  with  sugar 
for  1  hour.  Boil  the  lemons  whole  in  water  until  tender;  then 
cut  up  in  small  pieces,  removing  seeds.  Add  to  pears  and 
boil  1  hour  longer. 

— Mrs.  E.  M.  Lazarus, 

GREEN  TOMATO  SOY. 

4  qts.  tomatoes;  1  tablespoon  cloves; 

12  onions;  1  tablespoon  allspice; 

4  cups  sugar;  2   tablespoons   mustard; 

1  qt.  vinegar;  1   tablespoon  salt. 

Slice,  but  do  not  pieel  tomatoes.  Peel  and  slice  the  onions. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  boil  gently,  stirring  frequently 
until  tender.    Bottle  and  seal.    Excellent  with  fish. 

—Mrs.  A.  L.  Myers,  Atlanta,  Ga. 
188 


HOW  TO  PACK  BUTTER  FOR  THE  WINTER, 

To  pack  12  lbs.  butter,  use  a  3-gallon  stone  crock.  Wrap 
each  pound  of  butter  separately  in  clean  cheese-cloth,  and 
pack  closely  in  crock.  Boil  a  salt  brine  of  sufficient  strength 
to  float  an  egg,  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  when  cold,  pour  over 
the  butter,  leaving  sufficient  space  to  add  a  plate  and  stone 
for  weighting.  Tie  up  carefully.  If  kept  in  a  cool  place,  will 
keep  sweet  for  a  year,  and  is  nice  for  cakes  or  vegetable  dress- 
ing. 

— Mrs.  S.  L.  Kaufman. 

MIXED  MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

1  qt.  cucumbers  or  pickles;  2  qts.  cider  vinegar   (boiled); 

1   qt.  small  onions;  1  cup  flour; 

1  qt.  green  beans;  5  cents'  worth  tumeric; 

1  qt.   green   tomatoes;  6  tablespoons  mustard; 
6  peppers;  2  cups  sugar; 

2  heads  cauliflower; 

1  qt.  cold  vinegar  to  mix  it,  and  boil. 

— Mrs.  Ludwig  Kaufman. 

MOCK  HONEY. 

3tbs.  granulated  sugar;  1   lump  alum,  size  of  a  pea; 

1  pt.  boiling  water;  1  teacup  grated  quince. 

Cook  10  minutes. 

—Mrs.  A.  L.  W. 

PEACH-PEAR  PRESERVES. 

Yi  pk.  Bartlett  pears.  V2  pk.  peaches; 

Pare  and  slice;  weigh,  and  use  equal  amount  of  sugar 
(granulated).  Mix  well  together  and  set  on  stove  to  simmer. 
This  should  cook  until  fruit  is  dark  and  thick  (about  3  hours), 
when  it  can  be  jarred,  and  is  ready  for  use.  This  preserve,  if 
correctly  made,  is  very  good  and  inexpensive. 

— Mrs.  L.  Sulzbacher,  Braddock,  Pa. 
189 


MUSTARD  CHOW-CHOW. 

t  head  cauliflo*er  (parboil);  1  'qt.  small  cucumbers; 

1  qt.  wax  beans  (parboil);  2  qts.  white  onions; 

6   green    peppers;  1   qt.   large  cucumbers. 

Cut  the  large  cucumbers  and  salt  in  water  24  hours.    Also 

salt  onions  24  hours.     Then  mix  all  the  vegetables.     Put  2  qts. 

cider  vinegar  to  boil.  When  boiling,  add  the  following:  1  cup 

flour;  3  cents'  worth  tumeric;    4    tablespoons    mustard,    and 

smooth  in  enough  vinegar  to  make  a  thin  paste ;  then  add  this 

to  the  boiling  vinegar,  and  let  boil  for  10  minutes.    Throw  this 

over  the  vegetables  and  let  boil  1  minute,  and  then  put  it  in 

Mason  jars,  and  seal. 

— Amelia  H.  Cohen. 

PICKLES. 

100  pickles;  1  cup  dry  mustard; 

1   cup  sugar;  cider  vinegar. 

1  cup  salt; 

Mix  sal^t,  sugar  and  mustard  with  sufficient  vinegar  to 
boil  to  smooth  paste;  then  add  a  gallon  of  cold  cider  vinegar. 
Place  pickles  in  a  crock  and  cover  with  the  brine.  Place  a 
plate  and  weight  and  cover  closely.  Will  keep  indefinitely  in 
a  cool  cellar. 

— Mrs.  S.  L.  Kaufman. 

SOUTHERN    CHILI    SAUCE. 

1  gal.  ripe  tomatoes;  Salt  to  taste; 

2  qts.  onions;  1  lb.  sugar; 

4  green  peppers   (sweet);  1  handful  mixed  pickling; 

4  red  peppers  (sweet);  1   teaspoon  curry  powder; 

4  cloves;  1   teaspoon  cinnamon; 

2  cups  chopped  celery;  1   teaspon  cayenne  pepper; 
1  qt.  vinegar;  1  tablespoon  celery  seed; 
garlic;  1  tablespoon  mustard  seed; 

3  tablespoons  pulverized  mustard. 

Cut  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers  into  dice  and  the  garlic 
exceedingly  fine.  Mix  sugar,  spices  and  vinegar  together  and 
add  to  other  ingredients.  Boil  several  hours  till  of  good  con- 
sistency. 

— Mrs.  Virginia  Parks,  Atlanta^  Ga. 
190 


ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

12  sweet  oranges  (Valencia);  8  tbs.  sugar; 

6  bitter  oranges  (Seville);  4  qts  water. 

4  lemons; 

After  cutting  oranges  and  lemons  in  very  thin  slices, 
cover  them  -with  the  wrater  and  let  stand  36  hours.  Then  boil 
3  hours.  Add  sugar  and  boil  2  hours  more.  So  much  depends 
on  size  and  sw^eetness  of  t^e  oranges,  that  one  must  judge  the 
amount  of  sugar.    Also  too  much  boiling  makes  marmalade  dark. 

cold  water; 
3  oranges;  4  tbs.  granulated  sugar; 

1   lemon; 

Slice  very  thin  rind  and  all  3  large,  seedless  oranges,  and  1 

lemon.    Pour  over  the  sliced  fruit  11  tumblers  of  cold  water, 

and  set  away  for  24  hours.    Then  boil  slowly  for  1  hour.    After 

boiling,  add  4  lbs.  granulated  sugar,  and  set  away  for  24  hours 

longer.    Then  boil  for  1>2  hours.    Pour  into  jelly  glasses.  This 

amount  will  fill  8  glasses.    Cover  with  parafine.    Not  original, 

but  tried,  and  is  very  fine. 

—Theresa  S.  Tausig. 

PICKLED  BEANS. 

String  and  cut  sufficient  beans  to  fill  a  25-tb.  muslin  sugar 
sack;  tie  same  up  and  place  in  a  crock;  cover  with  a  salt 
brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg.  Keep  like  sauerkraut. 
The  sugar  sack  catches  mold  that  would  otherwise  settle 
on  the  beans.  Soak  in  fresh  water  for  several  hours  before 
using  and  cook  same  as  fresh  beans. 

— Mrs.  S.  L.  Kaufman. 


SPICED   CURRANTS. 

S  tbs.  currants;  2  tablespoons  cloves; 

4  lbs.  sugar;  2  tablespoons  cinnamon; 

1  pt.  vinegar. 

Put  Spices  in  a  bag.    Nice  with  meats. 

191 


PINEAPPLE  AND  STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

The  proportions  of  these  preserves  are  1  pineapple  to  2 
qts.  of  berries;  wash  the  berries  and  drain  well  before  pick- 
ing. Weigh  your  fruit  and  cover  with  equal  amount  of  sugar, 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  grate  your  pine- 
apples and  put  them  on  to  boil  with  equal  amount  of  sugar, 
and  boil  for  10  or  15  minutes ;  then  add  the  sugared  berries 
and  boil  together  until  the  syrup  is  of  the  proper  consistency. 

Delicious. 

— ^^Mrs.  Sol.  Brown,  New  Castle. 

PRESERVED    WATERMELON    RIND. 

1  gal.  water;  2  lbs.  sugar; 

1   oz.  alum;  1  oz.  whole  cinnamon; 

1  qt.  cider  vinegar;  J^    oz.   cloves. 

Cut  the  rind  in  small  pieces.  Boil  the  alum  and  water 
and  pour  over  the  rind  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  in  the 
morning.  Then  boil  the  vinegar,  sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves; 
pour  on  the  rind  and  let  boil  until  clear.    Put  in  jars  and  seal. 

— Mrs.  J.  Prince,  Cleveland. 

STRAWBERRY    PRESERVE. 

Select  large  solid  berries  and  use  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit.  Place  alternately  a  layer  of  berries  and  sugar 
in  preserving  kettle  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
place  over  fire  and  boil  15  or  20  minutes.  Pour  on  platters 
and  let  remain  3  or  4  days,  then  put  into,  jelly  glasses  and  seal. 

SWEET   PICKLED    CHERRIES. 

Clean  and  stem  sound  cherries,  then  place  in  a  crock, 
covered  with  vinegar,  over  night.  Next  morning  drain  cher- 
ries and  put  in  a  stone  jar,  a  layer  of  cherries,  and  then  a  very 
thick  layer  of  granulated  sugar,  and  so  on,  until  the  cherries 
have  all  been  used;  set  crock  or  jar  in  sun  until  all  sugar 
has  been  dissolved.  Stir  well  every  day.  When  this  is  fin- 
ished place  in  jars.    Very  fine. 

—Mrs.  W.  L.  Kann. 
192 


SAENFT-QURGEN. 

Pickles;  Salt; 

Vinegar;  Sugar; 

Red  peppers;  Mustard  seed. 

Peel  large  yellow  pickles;  cut  out  seeds  and  quarter. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  leave  stand  over  night.  Next  day  wipe 
each  one  dry  and  put  into  hot  vinegar,  cook  for  a  few  minutes. 
Sweeten  white  wine  vinegar  to  taste.  After  pickles  are  cooked 
fill  in  jars,  add  some  small  red  peppers  and  a  little  mustard 
seed  to  each  jar.  Fill  up  with  the  hot  vinegar  and  seal. 
Dilute  the  vinegar  if  too  strong.    Very  fine. 

—Mrs.  G.  E.  Crone. 

TOMATO    CHUTNEY. 

(Original.) 

Yz  pk.  tomatoes,  boiled  and  strained; 

1  tablespoon  ginger;  3  apples; 

3  finely  chopped  onions;  3  red  peppers; 

1  cup  cider  vinegar;  1   cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  salt; 

Boil  all  together  (but  not  too  long) ;  bottle  and  seal. 

— Mrs.  M.  A.  Goodstone. 

TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Use  yellow  tomatoes ;  skin  them  by  pouring  boiling  water 
over  them.  To  each  bushel  of  tomatoes  add  1  doz.  lemons; 
%  lb.  of  sugar  to  each  ft.  of  fruit ;  small  quantity  of  mace  and 
white  Jamaica  ginger.  Clear  the  syrup  before  putting  in  the 
fruit,  and  judge  of  the  consistency  as  for  other  preserves. 

— Mrs.  A.  H.  New,  New  York. 

WINTER   DILL   PICKLES. 

Fill  glass  jars  with  pickles ;  add  mixed  spices,  horseradish 
and  green  peppers.  Boil  6  qts.  water  and  13  oz.  salt;  1  piece 
alum  (size  of  a  nutmeg).  When  boiling  add  1  qt.  vinegar  and 
remove  from  fire.    Pour  over  pickles  while  hot ;  seal  at  once. 

193 


WINTER   DILL   PICKLES. 

Pack  alternate  layers  of  pickles  and  dill  in  an  air-tight 
barrel,  preferably  a  wine  barrel.  Cut  6  red  peppers  into  small 
pieces,  putting  them  here  and  there.  Boil  liquid  enough  to 
cover  pickles  in  the  proportion  of  1  gal.  water,  ^  lb.  salt  and 
1  qt.  vinegar.  Remove  scum.  After  cooling  a  little  pour  over 
pickles  until  barrel  is  full.  Put  on  head  of  barrel,  hoops,  etc., 
and  pour  paralifine  in  the  cracks. 

— Mrs.  H.  N.  Benedict. 


194 


MEMORANDUM 


19& 


MEMORANDUM 


196 


ersi 


BLACKBERRY    CORDIAL. 

4  qts.  ripe  blackberries;  2  pieces  of  ginger  root; 

1   large   handful   of   cinnamon  sticks; 

1  gal.  good  whiskey;  S  lb.  sugar. 

2  doz.  cloves;  3  qts.  Huckleberries; 

Mash  berries  together  with  a  pptatoe-masher,  put  in  a  2- 
gal.  wide  mouth  jug  of  some  kind,  with  the  sugar  and  spices, 
and  last  the  whiskey  on  top,  and  mix  together  with  a  little 
stick.  Cork  tight,  and  set  in  the  sun  for  3  weeks,  occasionally 
stirring  it;  then  set  in  a  cool  place  for  4  weeks;  strain  and 
bottle.     Very  fine. 

— Mrs.  Louis  Schwarz. 

CHAMPAGNE    PUNCH. 

1  tablespoon  maraschino;  1  tablespoon  of  eurak; 

1  bottle  cold  soda;  2  wine  glasses  Rhine  wine; 

1  qt.  champagne;  1  tablespoon  brandy; 

1  pt.  cooled  and  strained  Oolong  tea. 

Mix  all  with  a  ladle  in  a  punch  bowl ;  add  piece  of  ice 
and  slices  of  peeled  orange  and  banana. 

CLARET   CUP. 

3  lemons;  2  bottles  claret; 
1  cup  sugar;  1  syphon  vichy; 
3  tablespoons  Benedictine;              ice. 

1  bottle  sarsaparilla; 

Use  juice  of  lemons  and  add  other  ingredients.  Add  the 
following  to  take  sharp  taste  away:  slice  3  oranges;  slice  3 
bananas;  slice  1  lemon 

197 


CLARET   CUP. 

1  qt.  claret;  1  doz.  lemons; 

1  qt.  Apollonaris;  2   oranges; 

1  doz.  Maraschino  cherries;  1   cucumber  peel; 

1  pony  brandy;  6  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar. 

bunch   of   mint; 

Mix  claret,  Apollonaris,  brandy  and  juice  of  lemons ;  slice 
the  oranges  into  the  pitcher;  add  cucumber  peel;  add  sugar, 
mix  well,  and  once  in  the  pitcher  throw  in  the  cherries  and 
place  a  bunch  of  mint  on  the  pitcher's  edge.  It  makes  the 
punch  too  strong  to  place  it  in  the  jar. 

— Concordia  Club. 

COCKTAIL. 

1-3  qt.  whiskey;  2-3  qt.  Italian  vermouth; 

1   wineglass  maraschino;  1  teaspoon  bitters; 

Juice  of  Yz  lemon;  1    tablespoon   powdered   sugar. 

Mix  thoroughly  with  some  cracked  ice.  Take  empty 
cocktail  glass  and  moisten  edge  on  a  piece  of  lemon.  Dip  in 
powdered  sugar,  holding  glass  upside  down.  In  each  glass 
put  cherry,  and  Yz  teaspoon  maraschino.  Fill  glass  with  cock- 
tail mixture.    If  desired,  add  more  sugar. 

■ — Mrs.  Augusta  Kaufman. 

FROZEN    EGG    NOGG. 

1  qt.  rich  cream;  1   wineglass   brandy; 

1  cup  powdered  sugar;  1  wineglass  rum. 


Freeze  in  the  usual  way. 


-Chicago. 


MINT    PUNCH. 

1  cup  sugar;  Juice  of  6  lemons. 

3  peeled  lemons,  sliced  thin; 

Add,  when  ready  to  serve,  a  dozen  sprays  of  green  mint, 
1  qt.  of  pounded  ice  and  pour,  from  a  height,  2  or  3  bottles  of 
ginger  ale. 

198 


RASPBERRY   VINEGAR. 

6  qts.  raspberries;  1  qt.  cider  vinegar. 

Put  fruit  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  vinegar.  Allow  to 
stand  for  4  days,  stirring  thoroughly  every  day.  Strain 
through  jelly  bag.  Take  equal  quantity  of  sugar  and  juice. 
Boil  until  thick,  but  not  jellied.  Skim  off  all  scum.  Bottle  and 
seal  when  cold. 

—Mrs.  S.  B.  Goldsmith. 

RUM   PUNCH   WITH   FRUIT. 

1  qt.   mm;  4  oranges; 
)    qt.   strawberries;                              4   lemons; 

2  rups  sugar;  1  pineapple; 

1  pt.  strong  tea;  1    pt.   sherry. 

Slice  oranges,  lemons  and  pineapple.  Add  all  ingredients 
and  mix  several  hours  before  needed.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  a  chunk  of  ice  and  3  pts.  of  soda  or  Apollonaris. 

SOUTHERN    EGG    NOGG. 

16  eggs;  Yi  pt.  brandy; 

3  scant  cups  sugar;  IJ^   pts.  whiskey; 
1  gal.  milk;  \Va   nutmegs. 

y2  pt.  rum; 

Separate  eggs,  and  beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  as  for  a 
cake.  Gradually  add  the  milk,  which  should  be  good  and  rich ; 
then  the  various  liquors,  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  last  beat  in 
the  stiff-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  This  makes  a  good  quantity 
but  receipt  may  be  devided.  To  make  a  punch  extra  fine  mix  it 
and  place  in  a  stone  crock,  (covered  of  course)  for  at  least  two 
days  before  wanted  Then  stir  up  and  serve.  It  will  keep  for 
nearly  a  week,  if  properly  made. 

—Nettie  M.  Kaufman. 

TOM  AND  JERRY. 

Separate  an  egg ;  add  sufficient  sugar  to  the  yolk  to  make 
it  stiff;  add  beaten  white  to  the  yolk.  Stir  in  Y^  tablespoon 
brandy,  same  of  rum;  put  in  glass  and  fill  up  with  either  hot 
milk  or  hot  water.    Grate  nutmeg  on  top  and  serve  at  once. 

199 


TUTTI-FRUITTI  PUNCH. 

2  qts.  water;  2  doz.  Malaga  grapes; 

1  lb.  sugar;  2  slices  tangerine  orange; 

2  lemons;  4  slices  pineapple; 
4  oranges;  1    banana. 

Boil  together  for  5  minutes  1  quart  of  water  and  the 
sugar.  Add  grated  rind  of  lemons  and  oranges  and  boil  10 
minutes  longer.  Strain  syrup  through  cheesecloth  and  add 
1  qt.  of  cold  water.  Add  juice  of  lemons,  oranges  and  the 
other  fruit  sliced. 


200 


MEMORANDUM. 


201 


MEMORANDUM. 


202 


'^\:^^^^^^  <Ma^ 


BAKED  CHICKEN  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

Cut  medium  sized  boiled  chicken  into  small  squares. 
Make  sauce  of  the  following:  1  pt.  boiling  milk;  1  table- 
spoon butter ;  1  tablespoon  cornstarch ;  salt ;  red  pepper.  Dis- 
solve cornstarch  in  butter.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  chicken 
and  add  half  a  can  of  mushrooms.  Put  into  shells,  with 
crumbs  and  a  little  fresh  butter  on  top.  Bake  about  15  min- 
utes. 

BIRD'S    NEST. 

Cover  each  slice  of  bread  with  grated  American  cheese. 
Toast  in  oven.  Poach  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  place  one  in  the 
center  of  each  piece  of  toast.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  froth  and  surround  each  yolk  with  beaten  white.  Bake 
in  the  oven  until  the  white  turns  brown. 

BROILED    OYSTERS. 

Drip  oysters ;  pat  in  floured  towel.  Broil  oysters  quickly ; 
place  on  buttered  toast,  and  pour  over  some  melted  butter, 
and  seasoning  to  taste.    Serve  very  hot. 


CHEESE    PUDDING. 


1  pt.  milk; 

2  eggs; 

'/2   teaspoon   salt; 


1  pt.  bread  crumbs; 
lyi  cups  grated  cheese; 
pinch  of  soda. 


Beat  eggs  light  and  mix  with  other  ingredients.  Place  in 
baking  dish  in  which  it  can  be  served  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  brown  on  top. 

203 


BROILED    SARDINES. 

Select  large  sardines;  wipe  the  oil  from  them.  Dip  in 
egg  and  rolled  cracker.    Fry  in  hot  btitter  and  serve  on  toast. 

CHEESE   SOUFFLE. 

1  lb.  American  cheese  (grated);    2  to  3  cups  milk; 

1  tablespoon  flour;  6  eggs   (beaten  separately); 

2  tablespoons  butter;  Worcestershire   sauce. 

Melt  flour  and  butter  together.  Add  the  milk  and  when 
thoroughly  cooked ;  stir  in  the  cheese,  but  only  let  it  melt ;  do 
not  let  cheese  boil.  Add  eggs  and  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Bake  in  a  good  oven  10  to  20  minutes. 

— N.  Y. 

CHICKEN    LIVER   TIMBALES. 

4  eggs;  seasoning. 

12  chicken  livers; 

Chop  the  livers  fine;  add  the  seasoning,  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
then  the  stiff-beaten  whites  and  mix  all  together.  Grease 
timbale  moulds  and  set  into  pan  of  hot  water  to  bake  for  25 
minutes. 

— Mrs.  A.  H.  New,  New  York. 

CREAM   OYSTERS. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  1  cup  of  milk,  1  small 
grated  onion,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste,  some  chopped  parsley 
and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Drain  1  pt.  of  oysters,  boil  up 
and  serve  on  toast. 

—Mrs.  M.  Sailer. 

DEVILED    EGGS. 

Boil  eggs  until  hard;  remove  shells  when  cold;  cut  in 
two  lengthwise;  take  out  yolks.  Mash  the  yolks  in  a  bowl; 
mix  with  a  piece  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  mustard  and  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar.  Fill  the  whites  and  serve  on  toasted 
crackers. 

—Mrs.  Abe  J.  DeRoy. 
204 


CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

1  pt.  oysters;  i^  teaspoon  salt; 

milk;  %  teaspoon  pepper; 

3  tablespoons  butter;  celery  salt. 
3  tablespoons  flour; 

Clean  Oysters  and  cook  until  plump ;  drain  the  liquor  and 
add  enough  milk  to  make  l],^  cups.  Melt  butter  and  add  flour 
and  pour  in  gradually  the  liquor.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  celery  salt.  Add  oysters,  and  as  soon  as  heated,  pour  over 
slices  of  toast. 

CREAMED  SALMON  ON  TOAST. 

1   can  salmon;  1   cup  milk; 

1  tablespoon  grated  cheese;  toast; 

1   tablespoon   butter;  salt.   ' 

1  tablespoon  flour; 

Remove  bones  and  cut  salmon  into  small  pieces,  and  cover 

w^ith  cheese.  In  a  sauce  pan  melt  butter,  add  flour  to  a  paste; 

add  milk  and  season  to  taste  and  boil,  stii-ring  until  smooth. 

Drop  in  the  salmon  and  boil   1   minute  longer.     Serve  hot 

on  toast. 

—Miss  B.  S. 

EGGS    A  LA    DENIS. 

Eggs;      ,  1  can  mushrooms; 

toast;  sherry  wine; 

2  cups  broth;  flour; 

1  onion  (small);  pepper; 

salt.  3  tablespoons  tomatoes    (canned); 

butter  (lump); 

Poach  as  many  eggs  as  needed;  slice  round  with  cake 
cutter  toast  size  of  eggs.  One  hour  before  make  sauce  of 
broth  tomatoes,  strained,  grated  onions,  lump  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  mushrooms,  and  boil  1  hour  slowly,  in  double  boiler. 
Add  the  browned  flour  and  boil  20  minutes  longer;  then  add 
sherry  to  taste  and  pour  over  the  poached  eggs  on  toast. 

—Mrs.  I.  W.  Frank. 
205 


EGGS  A  LA  PARIS. 

Boil  8  eggs,  not  too  hard.  Take  a  piece  of  butter  with  a 
large  spoon  of  flour ;  add  J^  pt.  cream ;  beat  these  all  together 
(not  including  the  boiled  eggs)  and  season  with  salt  and  a 
little  sugar.  Add  to  this  mixture  the  yolks  of  8  other  eggs. 
Beat  the  whites  and  add  to  the  cream  mixture.  Butter  a 
platter  and  place  half  the  above  mixture  on  it;  bake  10  min- 
utes. Then  add  the  boiled  eggs  and  balance  of  the  mixture 
and  bake  10  minutes  more.  This  amount  serves  6  persons. 
—Chef  of  Plaza  Hotel,  New  York  City. 

EGGS  ALA  COLBERT. 

Put  into  the  bottom  of  small  cups  one  tablespoon  cream 
sauce;  into  each  cup  put  1  peeled  tomato  with  the  center 
scooped  out.  Drop  an  egg  into  the  tomato.  Cover  with 
cream  sauce.  Dust  with  bread  crumbs.  Stand  in  hot  water 
and  bake  15  minutes. 

EGGS   A  LA  AURORE. 

Eggs;  paprika; 

1   small  onion;  large  lump  butter; 

parsley:  cream; 

salt;  grated  American  cheese. 

Boil  eggs  hard;  cut  lengthwise;  put  yolks  in  a  chopping 
bowl,  adding  1  small  onion,  parsley,  salt,  dash  of  paprika  and  a 
good  sized  lump  of  butter.  Chop  very  fine  and  refill  the  eggs.  Put 
them  in  a  round  baking  dish.  Heat  2  ozs.  butter  and  stir  into  this 
a  little  flour,  the  remainder  of  the  egg  filling;  also  enough 
cream  to  make  a  thick  sauce;  pour  over  eggs;  add  grated 
American  cheese  on  top  and  bake  for  J^  hour. 

— N.  Y. 

EGGS   A  LA   RAGOUT. 

Boil  eggs  45^  minutes.  Remove  shells  and  place  in  cold 
water.  Dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  dust  or  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  them  in  boiling  fat  until  they  are  brown.  Serve 
in  a  bed  of  lettuce  with  cream  sauce. 

206 


EGGS  BRONILLE. 

2  fresh  mushrooms;  salt; 

6  eggs;  pepper; 

3  tablespoons  butter;  nutmeg; 
1/2  cup  milk;  toast. 

Peel  two  fresh  mushrooms,  cut  in  dice  and  fry  in  1  spoon 
of  butter  for  1  minute.  Beat  up  6  eggs  with  the  milk  or  cream  and 
seasoning.  Now  add  2  spoons  butter  to  the  mushrooms  in  the 
pan,  turn  in  the  eggs  and  stir  until  mixture  thickens  and  creams. 
Pour  over  thin  pieces  of  toast  and  serve. 

EGGS   A  LA   MARTIN. 

Poach  the  desired  number  of  eggs  in  muffin  rings.  When 
cold  pour  over  them  into  the  rings  a  strong  chicken  or  beef 
stock.  Put  on  ice  to  harden.  When  the  eggs  are  jellied  re- 
move from  rings  and  place  on  round  pieces  of  cold  meat. 
Decorate  with  a  narrow  strip  of  red  or  green  pepper.  Place  in 
a  bed  of  cress. 

EGGS   IN  MUSTARD. 

An  egg  for  each  person ;  parsley ;  salt ;  pepper.  Butter 
timbale  forms  well  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.  Into 
each  mould  drop  an  egg  (carefully  without  breaking) ; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  moulds  in  pan  with  boil- 
ing water  and  steam  until  hard.  When  cold,  turn  out  and 
serve  each  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce.  Over  this  pour  mayonnaise 
to  which  has  been  added  a  bottle  of  German  mustard.  The 
above  eggs  can  be  served  hot  on  lettuce  with  a  cream  sauce 

flavored  with  cheese. 

— New  York. 

EMINCE    OF    CHICKEN. 

Red  and  green  peppers;  rice; 

chicken;  tomato  sauce, 

lobster; 

Saute  in  butter  peppers,  and  add  to  this  minced  chicken  and 

lobster  cut  in  dice.    Cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  hot 

boiled  rice,  with  tomato  sauce. 

— N.  Y. 

207 


EGGS  AND  TOMATOES  WITH  CHEESE. 


1  dessertspoon  butter; 

salt; 

Vi   Clip   of   cheese; 

2  eggs; 

pepper; 

3  tomatoes. 

Put  a  good  desertspoon  of  butter  in  a  pie  dish.  Slice  in  melt- 
ing cheese,  or  hard  cheese  grated  will  do.  Take  care  to  season 
very  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  because  on  how  it  is  seasoned  will 
depend  the  success  of  the  dish.  Break  in  eggs  to  cover  the 
cheese  and  more  seasoning.  Finally,  cut  some  fresh  tomatoes  into 
pieces  like  the  sections  of  an  orange,  and  lay  them  round  the  dish. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  10  minutes,  or  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

—Mrs.  A.  Kingsbacher. 

EGG  TIMBALES. 

y-i  pt.  bread  crumbs;  1  teaspoon  parsley  (chopped); 

1   cup  milk;  J^  teaspoon  salt; 

5   eggs;  cayenne    (a  dash). 

Cover  the  bread  crumbs  with  boiling  milk,  and  when  crumbs 
are  soft  add  the  eggs,  well-beaten,  parsley,  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per. To  this  mixture  you  may  add  a  little  cold  meat  or  a  cup 
of  green  peas,  cauliflower  or  asparagus  (tips,  previously 
cooked).  Pour  into  tiny  timbale  pans,  set  them  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  and  cook  in  the  oven  for  20  minutes.  When  done 
invert  into  a  platter.  Remove  the  moulds,  and  serve  with  a 
well-seasoned  cream  sauce. 

— Ida  Ehrman  Hirschfield. 

NUT  SALAD  SANDWICHES. 

Grind  English  walnuts  or  hickory  nuts  in  your  meat 
grinder,  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  chopped  very, 
very  fine,  and  add  to  this  mixture  mayonnaise,  made  with 
plenty  of  lemon  juice.  Have  white  bread  cut  thin,  brush 
lightly  with  melted  butter,  lay  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf;  spread 
this  with  the  nut  and  celery  mixture;  lay  the  second  slice  of 
bread  upon  it  and  serve  at  once. 

208 


AN    EASY    ENTREE. 

Eggs,  grated  cheese, 

salt;  peppers. 

Butter  ramekins.  Drop  an  egg  in  each.  Cover  with  grated 
cheese  and  seasoning.  Place  ramekins  in  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  in  oven  until  egg  is  set. 

— L.  M.,  N.  Y. 

FROZEN    CREAM    CHEESE. 

1  cream  cheese;  %  pt.  whipped  cream; 

1  glass  bar  le  due; 

Use  whipped  cream  to  soften  cheese.  Add  bar  le  due  and 
freeze.  It  is  served  with  toasted  crackers,  as  the  bar  le  due  is 
in  the  mixture. 

— Mrs.  G.  Kaufman. 

OYSTERS  EN  COQUILLE. 

Oysters   (large  ones);  pepper   and   salt; 

butter;  bread  crumbs; 

parsley;  oyster  shells. 

Drain  the  oysters ;  save  the  liquor  and  wash  the  shells.  Mari- 
nate the  oysters  with  melted  butter,  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and 
salt.  Fill  the  shells,  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  a  little 
liquor.  Put  bits  of  butter  on  top  and  brown  in  very  hot  oven. 
Nice  for  Sunday  evening  dish. 

OYSTER  RAREBIT. 


1   cup  oysters; 

pepper; 

2  tablespoons  butter; 

1   cup  cheese; 

salt: 

2  eggs. 

Parboil  oysters  in  their  liquor ;  drain  and  put  liquor  back  to 
boil.  After  boiling,  strain  it.  Put  butter  in  chafing  dish;  add 
seasoning,  and  1  finely-cut  cheese.  When  melted,  add  J^  cup 
oyster  liquor,  then  the  oysters,  allowing  them  to  heat  through ;  and 
last,  the  well-beaten  eggs.    Serve  on  toast. 

— B.  H. 
209 


OYSTERS  KIRKPATRICK. 

Use  deep  shells  or  ramekins,  and  place  therein  a  piece  of 
butter,  oyster,  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  thick  layer  of 
tomato  catsup  and  grated  cheese.    Bake  20  minutes. 

— N.  Y. 

OYSTER  POULETTE. 

1  pt.  milk:  1   pt.  oysters; 

liquor  of  oysters;  1   egg   (yolk). 

Put  milk  to  boil;  add  some  liquor  of  oysters;  when  boiling, 

thicken  with  flour;  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sherry  wine 

to  taste ;  then  oysters ;  boil  1  minute ;  before  serving,  add  yolk 

of  egg. 

— Mrs.  Morris  Kaufmann. 

OYSTERS— SPANISH  STYLE. 

Have  toast  ready,  quite  thin.  Put  liquor  of  oysters  on 
with  a  little  butter,  tabasco,  Worcestershire,  catsup,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  a  green  pepper,  chopped  very  fine.  Let  this  cook  well, 
and  add  oysters ;  let  cook  until  the  ends  curl.  Skim  out  oysters 
and  arrange  on  the  toast  and  keep  hot.  Add  browned  flour 
to  same  and  pour  over  oysters  and  serve  at  once. 

— N.  Y. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. 

Select  good-sized  oysters ;  season  slightly  and  wrap  each 
one  in  a  very  thin  slice  of  bacon,  large  enough  to  encircle  it, 
and  fasten  with  a  toothpick.  Cook  in  the  broiler  just  long 
enough  to  crisp  the  bacon,  and  serve  on  hot  toast. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

1    can   mushrooms;  2  drops  lemon  juice; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  10  poached  eggs. 

Place  mushrooms  in  saucepan  with  butter;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  add  lemon  juice ;  cook  for  10  minutes.  Thicken  the 
sauce.  Arrange  eggs  around  a  platter,  pour  on  the  sauce,  put 
mushrooms  in  center,  and  serve  hot  with  toast. 

210 


POACHED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

1  can  tomatoes;  %  teaspoon  salt; 

1  large  tablespoon  flour;  pepper; 

\i  onion;  .       12  eggs. 

Cook  tomatoes  and  onion ;  strain ;  place  on  stove,  and  thicken 

with  flour  (dissolved  in  a  little  water  and  stirred  until  smooth)  ; 

put  in  seasonings.    Poach  eggs  and  place  on  a  piece  of  buttered 

toast  on  individual  plates  and  cover  with  tomato  sauce. 

ROLLED  SANDWICHES. 

Pound  6  ounces  ham  or  tongue,  cooked,  till  smooth ;  then 
add  2  tablespoons  butter ;  add  a  little  pepper,  and  rub  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Cut  thin  slices  of  brown  bread  and  trim  off  the 
crust.  Butter  them  slightly.  Mix  the  puree  above  prepared 
with  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise  sauce,  and  spread  the  buttered 
side  with  this.  Roll  up  firmly  each  slice  and  press  lightly  for 
20  minutes ;  then  roll  in  a  clean  cloth.  The  rolls  may  be  cut  in 
halves,  if  liked.  Any  kind  of  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  ham 
or  tongue. 

SALMON  IN  A  MOLD. 

1    can    salmon;  pepper; 

Yz  cup  bread  crumbs;  4  teaspoons  butter; 

4  eggs;  parsley. 

salt; 

Chop  salmon  fine;  rub  in  the  melted  butter  (not  hot),  until 

smooth;  then  beat  the  eggs  well  and  add,  and  last  the  crumbs. 

Place  in  well-buttered  mold  and  steam  1  hour.    To  be  eaten  with 

catsup  or  a  butter  sauce. 

— Bessie  Cohen,  Cleveland. 

SALMON  PUFFS. 

1  lb.  can  salmon;  1   tablespoon  lemon  juice; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  3   eggs. 

^2  cup  bread  crumbs; 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  fish ;  flake  fine ;  add  melted  but- 
ter and  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  lemon  juice  and  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Mix  well  and  put  in  cups ;  set  these  in  hot  water  and  bake 
J/^  hour  in  hot  oven.    Turn  out  and  cover  with  egg  sauce. 

211 


SALMON  LOAF. 

1  can  salmon;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 

2  eggs;  dash  of  chopped  parsley; 
lJ-2  cups  bread  crumbs;  milkr 

1   tablespoon  butter; 

Mix  the  ingredients,  adding  milk  enough  to  make  them 
mix  well;  form  into  a  loaf  in  a  dripping  pan,  the  bottom 
of  which  is  covered  with  bread  crumbs;  cover  the  loaf  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  The 
loaf  should  be  brown  on  top.    Cover  with — 

Dressing — 

Oil  of  salmon;  1  teaspoon  cornstarch; 

1    cup   milk;  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

Boil  the  salmon  oil  and  milk ;  when  boiling  thicken  with  corn- 
starch, add  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  it  is  creamy. 

SALMON  MOUSSE. 


6  eggs; 

1  lemon; 

1  pt.  milk; 

salt; 

1   package  gelatine; 

paprika. 

1  can  salmon; 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk  and  eggs  and  add  dissolved  min- 
ute gelatine.  Shred  the  contents  of  a  large  can  of  salmon  and 
flavor  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  salt  and  paprika.  Mix 
all  thoroughly  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Mold  into 
form  and  put  on  ice. 

— Mrs.  A.  H.  New,  New  York. 

SARDINES  EN  CASSE. 

Take  2  sardines  to  a  person ;  skin  and  bone  sardines ; 
Mash  fine  with  a  fork.  Add  dash  red  pepper ;  dash  white  pep- 
per; piece  of  butter;  Worcestershire  sauce;  enough  cream  to 
moisten  mixture.  Put  in  ramekins,  sprinkle  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  specks  of  butter.     Set  ramekins  in  pan  of  water 

and  bake  for  5  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Charles  Dreifus. 

212 


SCALLOPED  LOBSTER. 

Lobster;  salt; 

lemon   juice;  pepper; 

1   pt.  milk  or  cream;  bread  crumbs. 

Boil  and  pick  lobster  into  small  pieces,  and  in  a  deep  baking 

dish  alternate  lobster  meat  and  bread  crumbs,  adding  seasoning 

and  juice  of  a  lemon.     Finish  with  crumbs,  and  over  all  pour 

cream  or  milk,  and  bake  J4  hour.    Serve  hot. 

—Miss  B.  S. 

SHRIMP  FRICASSEE. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  1    lb.    shrimp; 

1  tablespoon  flour;  salt; 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion;  pepper. 

2  cups  strained  tomato; 

In  a  chafing  dish  cook  the  butter,  flour  and  onion  until 
the  mixture  is  brown;  then  add  the  tomato.  Stir  occasion- 
ally until  it  becomes  thick.  Clean,  wash,  and  drain  the  shrimps, 
and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Season  according  to  taste. 
Cover  the  dish,  turn  the  lamp  down,  and  allow  the  whole  to 
simmer  for  10  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

SUNDAY  SUPPER  DISH. 

Potatoes,  Frankfurters  and  bacon.  Pare  potatoes  of  about 
one  size,  then  hollow  them  through  the  center  with  an  apple 
corer.  Through  this  hollow,  slip  the  Frankfurter  and  around 
the  potato  put  a  piece  of  bacon.  Put  in  a  pan  in  the  oven, 
with  a  little  water  and  some  butter,  and  cook  until  potatoes 

are  done. 

— N.  Y. 

TOMATO  OMELET. 

S  eggs;  tomatoes   enough  for  meal. 

1  cup  milk; 

Cook  tomatoes  and  rub  through  colander,  season  with  butter, 

salt,  pepper  and  sugar.    Make  omelet  of  eggs  and  milk ;  make  in 

two  rolls;  lay  on  platter  and  pour  tomato  over  it.     Send  to 

table  hot. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Fink. 

213 


TOMATO  SURPRISE. 

1  head  cabbage,  shredded  fine;  tomatoes,  as  many  as  are 
required.  Peel  firm,  smooth  tomatoes ;  cut  off  the  top,  (to  be 
used  again  as  covering) ;  scoop  out  the  inside,  and  put  in  a 
bowl. 

Dressing — 

1  tablespoon  sugar;  1  egg; 

Yz  teaspoon  dry  mustard;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

1   cup  vinegar;  salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  all  together  and  boil  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Pour 

this  mixture  over  cabbage  and  fill  tomatoes  with  this  salad. 

Put  on  covering,  serve  individually  on  lettuce  leaf. 

—Mrs.  M.  M.  Kann. 

TOMATO  RAREBIT. 

1  tablespoon  butter;  J4  teaspoon  soda; 

2  cups  grated  cheese;  salt; 

2   egg  yolks;  paprika. 

%  cup  tomato  puree; 

Melt  the  butter ;  add  cheese ;  stir  till  melted ;  then  add  other 
ingredients,  previously  mixed.  Stir  till  smooth,  and  serve  on  toast. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

TOMATO  TOAST. 

1  can  tomatoes;  salt; 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion;  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley; 

Stew  all  this  till  thick.     When  the  juice  is  somewhat  absorb- 
ed, pour  over  slices  of  buttered  toast  and  serve  at  once.  Do  not  strain 
—Mrs.  John  X.  Smith,  Watertown,  N.  Y. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Yi  tb.  cheese;  Vz  teaspoon  salt; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  dash  cayenne  pepper; 

1   egg;  ^  teaspoon  dry  mustard. 
Yz  cup  cream; 

Mince  cheese  and  put  all  the  ingredients  into  the  chafer  and 

stir  continually  until  it  is  smooth  and  of  the  consistency  of 

thick  cream.    Serve  immediately  on  hot  crackers. 

214 


WELSH  RAREBIT. 

1  ft),  stale  American  cheese;  dust   of   paprika; 

i  glass  stale  beer  or  ale;  1    tablespoon   Worcestshire    sauce; 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard;  1   teaspoon  cornstarch; 

pinch    salt;  yolks   of  3   eggs. 

Melt  small  piece  of  butter  in  chafing  dish,  and  add  grated 
cheese,  stirring  all  the  time.  Pour  off  fat,  if  too  much  drains  off. 
Mix  together  all  dry  ingredients;  then  rub  in  slowly  the  beer; 
add  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  stir  together  until  perfectly  smooth,  and 
thick  enough.    Serve  on  toast,  on  very  hot  plates. 

— Mrs.  Ch.  Dreyfus. 


215 


MEMORANDUM 


CVilM/^^  \JQAMJyv^J  icHfU^^  . 


7 
/ 


MEMORANDUM 


217 


MEMORANDUM 


218 


<^CANDY     I? 


BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

1  cup  molasses;  1   teaspoon  vanilla; 

1  cup  butter;  54  teaspoon  baking  soda. 

2  cups   sugar; 

Boil  together  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon.  Pour  into  but- 
tered tins.    When  cool,  cut  in  squares. 

— Miss  Maltinsky. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

1   cup  grated  chocolate;  1   cup  granulated  sugar; 

%  cup  New  Orleans  molasses;        small   lump   butter; 
1    cup    milk;  3  tablespoons  vanilla. 

Let  milk  boil ;  stir  in  chocolate ;  continue  to  stir  until  lumps 
are  all  gone ;  add  molasses,  sugar  and  butter ;  stir  constantly,  cook- 
ing hard  all  the  time,  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  mush.  Flavor ; 
pour  into  well-buttered  pans.  When  slightly  cool,  mark  off  into 
squares. 

DIVINITY  CANDY. 

3  Itjs.  white  sugar;  1J4   pts.   cream; 

1   tb,  silver  drip  syrup;  2  tbs.  English  walnuts. 

Cook  until  firm  soft  ball  between  the  fingers,  rather  firm; 

then   stir   until  creamed,   and  add  chopped  nuts  when  nearly 

creamed,  and  pack  tight. 

— Dr.  Jane  Wells  Craven. 

FIG  PASTE. 

3  cups  candy  sugar,  mixed  with  1  cup  milk,  and  cooked 
until  it  will  form  in  glass  of  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire 
and  stir  into  it  1  cup  chopped  figs,  and  beat  well;  then  pour 
into  buttered  pans  and  mark  into  squares. 

219 


FUDGE. 

1   cup  chopped  nuts;  2  cups  sugar; 

1    cup    cream;  i^anilla    to   flavor. 

Boil  together  wntil  it  threads;  stir  in  chopped  nuts,  which 
have  been  dipped  in  melted  chocolate.  Pour  on  oiled  paper.  Cut 
into  squares    Press  nut  on  top  of  each  one. 

— Miss  Maltinsky. 

FUDGE. 

1  cup  milk;  J4   lb.  chocolate; 

2  cups  sugar;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

1    cup   molasses;  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Boil  together  until  it  crisps ;  beat  it  well  off  the  fire ;  pour  into 

buttered  pans,  and  cut  in  squares. 

— Miss  Maltinsky. 

GLACE  FRUIT. 

Dry  oranges  and  lemons  after  peeling  and  separating  each 
division.  Take  walnuts  and  Brazil  nuts,  being  careful  not  to 
break;  Malaga  grapes  and  figs  cut  in  small  pieces.  Take  ^ 
cup  granulated  sugar;  Yz  cup  water;  >^  cup  white  wine  vin- 
egar; 1  tablespoon  vanilla.  Let  this  boil  over  a  hot  fire  until 
when  a  little  is  dropped  in  cold  water  and  tried  it  will  eat  well 
without  sticking.  Drop  the  prepared  nuts  and  fruit,  one  at  a 
time,  in  this  mixture,  placing  each  piece  separately  on  well- 
buttered  platter. 

— Macon,  Ga. 

GLACE  NUTS. 

1  cup  dry  sugar  should  be  melted  over  the  fire,  stirring 

slowly  but  constantly  to  prevent  burning.     Have  a  pan  with 

boiling  water  ready,  in  which  to  set  the  saucepan  of  melted 

sugar,  to  prevent  its  hardening  while  dipping  the  nuts.    Any 

kind  of  nuts  can  be  used,  and  Malaga  grapes  are  nice  treated  in 

the  same  way — but  leave  on  the  little  stem  to  dip  them  by,  so 

as  to  keep  the  grape  firm,  and  to  prevent  the  escaping  juice 

thinning  the  syrup. 

— Helen  K.  Lieberman,  Atlanta,  Ga, 

220 


FILLED  PRUNES. 

Swell  prunes  in  sherry  over  night.  If  not  swelled  enough, 
steam.    Fill  with  marshmallows  and  roll  in  sugar. 

— Mrs.  M.  Kingsbacher. 

MAPLE  NUT  CANDY. 

To  1  lb.  maple  sugar,  broken  in  pieces,  1  pt.  sweet  cream 
and  the  mixture  boiled  for  1  hour,  stirring  constantly.  When 
nearly  done,  add  chopped  walnuts.  When  taken  from  fire, 
stir  while  mixture  cools  and  begins  to  thicken.  Then  pour  on 
buttered  plate ;  allow  to  harden,  and  cut  into  squares.  Very 
good. 

NUT  KISSES. 

3  eggs;  Zy-i  cups  nuts. 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar; 

Mix  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  to  an  icing. 
Add  chopped  nuts  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

NUTTED  FIGS. 

Use  any  kind  of  figs ;  wash  them  well  and  cut  open  and 
lay  over  night  in  claret  or  a  mixture  of  wine  and  sherry.  Then 
roll  in  a  mixture  made  of  ground  nut  meats,  some  orange  peel 
and  chopped  citron;  a  few  dried  prunes  and  apricots  cut  fine 
and  candied  fruits  also  cut  up — try  to  add  the  candied  rhubarb 
as  it  gives  a  fine  flavor.  After  rolling  both  sides  of  the  figs 
with  this  coil  up   close  with  a  toothpick. 

— Mrs.  Sam.  Gallinger. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar;  1  cup  shelled  nuts. 

Stir  sugar  over  a  slow  fire  until  melted ;  then  whirl  in  the  ni'ts 
in  the  melted  sugar.  Remove  to  greased  pan  and  break  into 
squares  when  cold.  This  may  be  improved  by  grinding  the  nuts,  in- 
stead of  using  whole. 

—Miss  B.  S. 

221 


ORANGE  STRAWS. 

Soak  orange  skins  in  lukewarm  water  for  an  hour  or 
longer.  Then  scrape  out  all  the  soft  pulp  that  adheres  to  the 
skin;  cut  into  narrow  strips  about  J4  inch  wide;  boil  these 
hard,  in  clear  water,  until  very  soft — soft  enough  to  be  almost 
transparent — put  them  in  a  colander  to  drain.  Then  make  a 
syrup  of  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  enough  boiling  water  to 
dissolve  the  sugar.  When  it  is  thoroughly  boiled  and  clear, 
cook  a  few  "straws"  at  a  time  in  the  syrup  for  about  5  min- 
utes. Have  a  large  platter  of  granulated  sugar,  in  which  roll 
the  straws.  When  they  have  absorbed  all  the  sugar  they  can, 
put  them  on  another  plate  to  dry.  These  are  a  nice  addition 
to  the  nuts  and  candied  fruits  served  for  a  luncheon  or  dinner. 

— Mrs.  Max  Hamburger,  Chicago. 

PRALINES. 

1%  cups  powdered  sugar;  J^  cup  cream; 

1  cup  maple  syrup;  2  cups  pecan  or  hickory  nuts. 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  cream  until  when  tried  in  water  a  soft 
ball  is  formed.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  creamy.  Add 
nuts  and  drop  from  tip  of  spoon  in  small  piles  on  buttered  paper. 

— Mrs.  Meyer  Fink. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  Jordan  almonds  carefully,  and  add  1  teaspoon  best 
olive  oil  to  each  2  cups  nuts.  Place  in  hot  oven  and  stir  often. 
When  brown,  remove  and  sprinkle  with  fine  salt  to  taste. 

SEA  FOAM. 

1J4   cups  maple  sugar;  J^  cup  water; 

1  egg  (white);  vanilla. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads,  and  beat  white  of 
egg  very  stiff,  and  pour  hot  syrup  over  it,  very  slowly,  beating 
all  the  time.    Drop  with  a  fork  on  buttered  platter.    Brown 

sugar  may  be  used,  if  preferred. 

— Miss  L.  Smith. 
222 


MEMORANDUM. 


223 


INDEX 

TO     ADVERTISERS 


Page 
Allen  Bug  Weaving  and 

Carpet  cleaning  Co.  19 
Alexander  J.  and  Son  .  4 
Acker  Edward  .  .  .10 
Buchbinder  &  Co.  .  8 
Blind  H.  L.  .  .1 
Blackburn  Academy  of  Dancing  13 
Boggs  &  Buhl  .  -  18 
Clark  Bros.  .  18 
Club  Pressing  Co.  .13 
Cohen  S.  .  .  .  8 
Colonial  Trust  Co.  

Doubleday  Hill  Electric  Co.         3 

Daub  &  Son          .         .  .22 

Duflfs  College   ...  5 

Doeschner  F.  C.    .         .  .6 

Demmler,  Meyer  &  Co.      .  18 

David  C.  (The  Louvre)  .     13 

Eclipse  Laundry     .          .  .     3 

Fort  Pitt  Hotel  8 

Fleischman  Yeast  Co.    .  16 

Feuerl 4 


Garrett  Jean 
Goldinger  A.     . 
Grabowsky  Wm. 
Goehring  &  Bartley 
Germania  Savings  Co 
Garry  J.  J. 
Hotel  Lincoln  . 
Hotel  Henry 
Henieman 
Hotel  Schenley 
Home  Jos.  «&  Co 
Hotel  Anderson 
Holmes  Store   . 
Jameison  Sisters 
Jarrett  Studio 
Kaufman  S. 
Kleber 


7 
22 
12 

7 


20 

20 

5 

2 

19 

2 

4 

12 

7 

17 

10 

19 


Page 
Kuhn  Bros.  &  Co.  .  .3 
Kwallwasser  L.  .         .  4 

Kelly  William      ...       8 
Kuhn's  (Rittenhouse)   .  13 

Liberty  Cleaning  Co.  .         16 

Lechner  &  Schoenberger  .       6 

Luedebuhl  P.  &  Son  .           1 

McCloy  A.  W.  &  Co.    .  .       1 

Monongahela  House  .         12 

McCann  &  Co.      .         .  .6 

McDonald         ...  5 

McCreery  &  Co.             .  .11 

Mellor  C.  C.      .         .  15 

Mag  Chas    .         .         .  .10 


Open  Front 

Paulson  Bros  Co. 

Pulpress  J.  R. 

Penna  Chocolate  Co 

Palace  The 

Perry  W.  E. 

Plough  W.  H. 

Randolph  &  McClements 

Renshaw  John  A.  &  Co. 

Rensbaw  Carson  Co. 

Radcliffe  G.  H. 

Bobbins  Electric  Co.     . 

Royal  Laundry  Co. 

Shields  Transfer  &  Storage  Co. 

Schaldenbrand 

Smallwood  &  Ware 

Spahr  W.  J.      . 

Union  Market 

Vacuum  Cleaning  Co, 

Willison  I.  &  Son 

Werner,  Oswald  &  Sons 

Wyland  W.  J.      . 

Weldin  J.  R.  Co. 

Wasserman  A.  I. 


11 

7 

22 

17 

15 
2 
6 

20 
4 
4 

14 

14 
3 

11 

22 

12 
6 

10 
19 
16 
9 
15 
14 
14 


224 


T«(®L©i^'8  AL]l¥ST  §HMY 

3IT  FOURTH  AVE-314-3ia  DIAMONDS!, 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

"In  Capital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Stiength" 

Pays  A%  on  Savings. 


H.  L.  BLIND  &  BROS. 

Florists  and  Decorators 

Liberty  Avenue  &  Fifth  Street 
5424  Centre  Avenue  near  Aiken 


Flowers  for  Receptions  and  W^eddings       Blooming  Plants  in  season 


>Vhen  in  need  of  decorations  ask  for  our  representative  to  call. 


BOTH     PHOINES 


SANITARY 
DESKS 

Differ  from 

all    others 

because   they 

stand  Up  Off  the  Floor 


No  dust  can 
accumulate 
unless  you 
see  It.  A 
broom  can 
reach  under 
It. 


Send  to-day  for  our  catalogue 
642&644LIBERrrAV£.    PITTSBURGH.  PA. 


P.    LUDEBUEHL   &   SON 

Penn  &  Frankstown  Aves-  E.  E. 


Seperate  departments  for 
Men.   Women   and   Children 


Germanla  Savings  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4fe  on  9«vitigs 


Old,   Conservative   and   Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


Joseph  Home  Company 

PITTSBURG'S  GREAT  STORE 


EVERYTHING 

for 

EVERYBODY 

And  always  at  the  very  lowest  prices 


Hi.  e  Perry 

Pbotograpber 

516  Federal  Street 

(Opposite  Boggs  &  Buhl) 

Nortli  Side,    Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


Home  Portrature  a  Specialty 


P.  &  A.  Phone,  Main  111  Stand  No.  80 

HEINEMAN'S 

DIAMOND  MARKET 

Under  Old  City  Hall,  Facing 
Market  Street. 

Finest     Elgin     Creamery, 

Strictly  Fresh  Eggs, 

Full     Line     of 

Cheese      and 

Country 

Roll 


II 


T«E&L®/!ii  ALl¥ST  §mkm 

317  FOURTH  AVE-314-318  DlAMONDSt 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

"In  Capital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Strength" 
Pays  4%  on  Savings. 


Fit  Better 

PHONE 
P.&A.MUII 

148 


HAND    TURNED    COLLARS 


Wear  Longer 


STEVENSON 
&  FORBES  STS. 


PHONE         Why  not  have  your  ooU- 

BELL,  Grant  ars  laundered  by  a  process 

2943        that)    will  assure  you  the 

maximum  amount  of  wear 

from  your  linen? 


Every     department     is 
operated  with  a    view  of 
obtaining  the  best  possible 
PITTSBURGH,  quality  of  work  with  the 
PA.  least  possible  wear  on  the 

goods. 


Electric  Cliafliig  Dish 

Cheaper,  Neater  and  costs  less 
to  operate  than  those  heated 
by  alcohol 

Efficient  and  Durable 
electric  heating  devices  of 
all  descriptions. 

DOUBLEDAY-HILL  ELECTRIC  CO. 


919     LIBERTY     AVENUE, 


PITTSBURGH,     PA. 


ROYAL  LAUNDRY  CO. 

Largest  Plant   Latest  Improvements 
Greatest  Buisness 

Your  Patronage  Solicited 

101  Brady Bell  Phones 1404  Highland 

35  Chester P.  &  A.  Phones 84  East 


Everything   to   eat 

/\x 


Kuhn  &  Bro.  CoJs. 

3  Stores 
East  End,    Wilkinsburg,    Oakmont. 

Ill 


Germaula  Savings  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4fo  on  Savings 


Old,   Conservalive   and   Strong. 
Foundedl870. 


Sixth  St.  &  Penn  Ave. 


W.  M.  McKINNIE 
Proprietor 


Pittsburgh,    Pa, 


Ji.  A.  WM I  CiPflU 

Liberty  &  9tli  Street 
PITTSBURGH. 


M  I 


415  Federal  St.        North  Side 


Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 

Fine  Family  G-roceries 


-AND- 


Pure  Food  Products 


Bell  TelepLone  1606  Schenley 


LADIES'  TAILOR 

4599  Forbes  St.   Corner  Craig  Pittsbttrgh,  Pa. 


Bell  Telephone  502 1-J  Highland 

Bell  Phone  378  L.  Schenley 

J.  Alexander  &  Son 

I.  F^EUER 

Fine   Furniture,  Upholstery, 

ARTISTIC 

Draperies  and  Interior 
Decorations. 

LADIES'  TAILOR 

323  S.CRAIG  ST. 

5140  Liberty  Avenue 

NEAR  FORBES  STREET 

Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

PITTSBURGH,  PA. 

IV 


Tnt(bL®/ilALlSVST§KPAWY 

317  FOURTH  AVE— 314-318  DIAMONDS!, 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

"In  Capital  and  Surplus  there  is  Strenglh" 

Pays  4%  on  Savings. 


HOTEL  HENRY 

FIFTH  AVENUE  AND  SMITHFIELD  STREET 
PITTSBURGH,  PA. 


European  Plan  Modern  Fire  Proof 

Rates  $1.50  and  upwards. 


E.  E.  BONNEVILLE,  Manager 


BUSINESS  EDUGAIION 


A  practical    education     that 

will  enable  you  to  make  a 

profitable  living 

An     education    tkat    you    •will 
need  a  me  time 

Day  and  Eveuiug  Sessions 


Durn  College 

Sixth  Street  &  Liberty  Avenue 
Pittsburg,   Pa. 


The  Standard  of  Excellence 


Candies,     Ice    Cream    Sodas 
and  Dainty  Lunch 

Novelties,    Dinner    Favors,     Fancy 
Baskets  and   Boxes 

•••••••••••• 

208  SIXTH  STREET 
PITTSBURG 


Gertuauia  Savings  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4%  on  Savitigs 


Old,   Conietvative   and  Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


Excellent  Furs  at 

DOESCHNER'S 

DOESCHNER'S  Purs  are  of  ex- 
cellent and  superior  quality.  They  re- 
present the  highest  degree  of  achieve- 
ment in  vrorkmanship,  style,  fit  and 
appearance 

The  DOESCHNER  collection  of 
Furs  is  large,  varied  and  consists  en- 
tirely of  garments  made  at  the 
DOESCHNER  establishment  and  being 
offered  at  prices  which  by  comparison 
are  the  most  reasonable  consistaht 
with  quality. 


F,C 


I 


720   PENN  AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH,  PA. 


—  PIANOS  — 

Kranich  &  Bach 

ART  PIANOS 

Supreme  In  the  Class  of  Highest  Grades 

14  other  prominent  makes  of  pianos 

APPOLLO  PLAYER  PIANO 

PLAYS    58,  65,  &  88  NOTES 
Has  transposing  mouthpiece 

CECILIAN  PLAYER  PIANO 

PLAYS  65  &  88  NOTES 

Metal  Action  Plays  all  standard  music 

ALL  PLAYER  MUSIC 

[echoer  &  Schoefiberpr  Co. 

340  &  342  Fifth  Avenue 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


/VVcCAININ  Sc  CO. 

BUTTKR  &  EGOS 

413-415  Market  Street  Pittsburgh 


W.  H.  PLOUGH 

Duquesne  Pharmacy 

A  complete  assortment  of 
Pure  Drugs  G^  Xoilet  R.equisites 

Oompoundlng  of   Physicians'    Prescriptions 
a  specialty. 

No.  603  Smithfield  St. 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Bell  Telephone  8788  Grant 
P.  &  A.  Telephone  1032  Main 


USE  SPAHR'S 

Highland  Blend  Coffee 

25  CENTS  PER  POUND 

ai-  %  Spabr 

GROCER 

61 1 7  Penn  Avenue 
Pittsburgh,   Pa. 

Bell  Phones  Highland  1203-1204-9060- J 
P.  &  A.  Phone  East  47 


VI 


Tn[(bLo/^IALlRlfST@MPAMY 

317  FOURTH  AVE-3H-3I8  DIAMOND  ST, 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

"In  Capital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Strength" 

Pays  4%'on  Savings. 


72  years  on  Wood  Street 


PAULSON  BROS.  CO, 


Hats  &  Furs  for 
Men  &  Women 


GoehringUartley 

EVERY  KIND  OF 

Housefurnishing  Goods 

Hardware,     Gas     Ranges,   Painters' 

Supplies,  Window  and 

Plate  Glass 


PHOTOGRAPHS   BY 

Jamieson  Sisters 

Dainty   Miniature    effects   in 
color  and  suitably  framed. 

Strong  portrait   likeness  in  Plat- 
lume    ana  carbon. 

Our  Mv^ork  speaks  for  itselt, 

WE  WANT  yOUK  PATRONAGE 

Studio  in  The  Wallace  Block 
Centre  &  Highland  Aves. 


6203  Penn  Avenue,  E.  E. 
Pittsburgh 


Both  Phones 

Bell  340  and  341  Highland 

P.  &  A .  341  East 


Bell  Phone  568-J  Grant 


Jean  Garret 


LADIES'  TAILOR 


306     Monongabela    National 
Bank    Building 


Pittsburgh,   Pa. 


VII 


Germaula  Saviuss  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4^  on  Savings 


Old,   Conservative   and   Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


Fort  Pitt  Hotel 


PITTSBURGH,  PA. 


Bell  Phone  3461  Court 


Buchhinder  &  Co. 


OPTICIANS 

442  Penn  Ave.,  Cor  Fifth  St. 


Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


Bell  Phone  2016  Grant 


S.  e©HEN 

LADIES'  TAILOR 


Rooms  430-431-432  433 
Fulton  Building 

Sixth -St.   &  Duquesne  Way- 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


Bell  Phone  1025  Highland 

William  Kelly 

DEALER    IN 
Fine  Butter,  Eggs    and.    Poultry 

Unsalted  Butter  and    Home 
Dressed  Poultry  a  Specialty 

Stalls   179-181  Liberty  Market 

Wagon  leaves  10  A.  M. 


VIII 


Oswald  Werner  &  Sons 


Oldest  and  Largest 

Fancy    Shop     Dyeing    and 
Cleaning    Establishment 

In  Pittsburg 


Downtown  Office 
631  PENN  AVENUE 


East  End  Office 
COR.  S.  HIGHLAND  AVE.  &  BAUM  STREET 


Works 
COR.  BRYANT,  ST.  CLAIR  &  MELLON  STREETS 

IX 


Germaula  SavluKs  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4fe  on  Savlnns 


Old,   Conservative   and  Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


CHAS.  MAG 

Umbrellas  and  Leather  Goods 


REPAIRING 

6003  Penn  Avenue. 

Bell  Phone  2834-R  Highland 


Bell  Phone  56  Highland 

Edward  Acker 

Our  Speciality  is 

Kitchen  Goods 

The  little  extras  the  Regular 

Hardware  Stores  don't  like 

to  bother  with 

IZ3  S.  Highland  Avenue 
Mast  Mnd 

Established  1873 


Headquarters  for 

Home  Dressed  Poultry,  Fancy 
Game  and  all  Specialties 


^.  Kaufman 


LADIES'  TAILOR 


4  Diamond  Square 
Pittsburgh 


501-502   Fulton   Building 
Sixth  Street,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


Bell  Phone  3598  Grant 


1hf/oIOMIAI  IrII^T^MPAAIV      Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

F^^  L    fllAL  \n.\IO  I  ^PlrMIl  I  "in  capital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Strength" 

Pays  4%  on  Savings. 


i17  FOURTH  AVE  — ai4-S18  DIAMOND  ST 


fflcCreery  &  Company 

Dry  Goods 

Wood  Street  at  Sixth  Avenue 
Pittsburgh 


Bell  2691  Court 


P.  &  A.  1063  Main 


Open  Front 

O.  H.  Shoemaker,  Prop. 

Butter,  Eggs,  Cheese,  Poult- 
ry, Tea  and  Coffee 

432-434  Market  St. 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


Packers,  Movers,  Storers   and  Ship- 
pers of  Furniture,   Pianos  and 
all   Classes  of    Household 
Goods.  Trunks  Deliver- 
ed to    all  parts 
of  City. 

SHIELDS 

TRANSFER  &  STORAGE  CO. 

Rug  and  Carpet  Cleaning  a  specialty 

General  Office 

4759  Liberty  Avenue, 

Pittsburg,  Pa. 

Bell  Fisk  993  P.  A.  227  Lawrence 


XI 


Germaula  Savings  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  Afo  on  Savings 


Old,   Conservative   and   Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


Fine  Furs 

For  thirty-three  years  this  store  has  been 

Pittsburgh  Headquarters  for 

Fine  Furs 

To-day   we  are  the  only   exclusive  Fur 
House  in  Western  Penna. 

Wm.  Grabowsky 

707  Penn  Avenue 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


Latest  Novelties  in  Hair  Goods, 
Second  Floor,  Boom  3. 


SMAUWOOD  &  WAfi[, 

LADIES'    HAIR    DRESSING, 

Ladies'  and  Gentleman's 
Chiropody  and  Manicure  Parlors. 

A.  E.  Smallwood,  Proprietor 

6117  Penn  Avenue, 
Pittsburg,  Pa. 


Residence,  6626  Penn  Avenue 

Bell  'Phones 

Office  Residence 

846-L  Highland  2665-J  Highland 


E 


Thoroughly  Modernized 

EUROPEAN 

Newly  Furnished  and  Strictly  ITp-to-Date 

Ladies'  Dining  Room 

on  First  Floor 
ORCHESTRA  IN  ATTENDANCE 

Rooms  $i.oo  and  Upwards 
J.  B.  KELLEY,  Manager 

Pittsbufgh's  Most  Famous  Hotel 

OPPOSITE— B.  &  O.,  B.  R  &  P.,  and 
P.  L.  E.  Depots  and  Boat  Landing 

Smitkfield  and  Water  Streets 


Bell  Phone  HI-2957 

THE  HOLMES  COMPANY 

Bookmen,   Stationers,  Engravera 

Fine   Stationery,    Engraving,    Brass 

and  Leather  Novelties,  Dinner 

Cards,  Playing  Cards, 

Tallies,    Etc. 

All  the  Latest  Fiction 
and  Magazines 

Visit  our  Circulating 
Library    Open 
Evenings 

6oi6  Penn  Avenue 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


XII 


THEgLo/^IALlSuST&WPAAlY 

817  FeURTH  AVE  —  814-318  DIAMOND  ST 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

"In  Capital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Strength" 

Pays  4%  on  Savings. 


BLACKBURN'S 

ACADEMY  OF  DANCING 

Ball  Roonii  Fancy. 
Stage,  Step  and  Toe 

Dancln|,  Grace 
Physical  Culture  anil 


Private  Lessons  by  Appointment 

Children    Trained    for     Pantomimes 
Carnivals,  and  Performances 

of  all  kinds 
Call  or  write  for  illustrated  booklet 

401-403-405  Llfterty  Ave.       Plttsburib,  Pa. 
1925  Court Phones 9231  Court 


Pretty  Garments 
are  often  Ruined 

By  home  cleaning  methods. 

Why  run  the  risk  when  we 

do  the  work  for  you   at 

reasonable  prices   and 

do     it    right 


CLEANING  6^  DYEING, 

6339  PENN  AVENUE., 
PITTSBURG,  PA. 

p.  &  A.  556  East— Phones— Bell  dJl  Hlland 


The  Louvre 
Smart  Set  Shop 

A  SHOP  FOR  HIGH  GRADE 

Gloves,     Corsets,      Hosiery, 

Underwear,  Neckwear, 

and  Veiling 

ini$$  €.  David 

Penn  Ave.   cor.  Sixtk  St. 


Plain  and   Fancy  Cooking 

Novelties  in  Pastry 

Superior  Ice  Cream 

Pure  Confections 


EVERYTHING    WE    MAKE 
IS   THE  BEST 


KUHN'S 


Pittsburg,  Pa. 


In  The  Rittenhouse 


XIII 


Germaiila  Savlues  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4%  oti  Savings 


Old,   Conservative   and   Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


A.  I.  Wasserman 

LADIES  TAILOR  AND 
FURRIER 

Habits  in  Cross  or  Side  Saddle 

also  Plain  and  Fancy 

Tailored  Gowns  and  Costumes 

for  all  occasions. 

Prices  moderate 


Orders  executed  on  very  short  notice 


317  So.  Craisf  St.  cor.  Filnore 

(First  cor.  off  Forbes  St.) 

Bell  'Phone,  Sohenley,  130-R 


BOOKS 

Standard  sets,  new  fiction, 
history,  poetry,  reference, 
etc. 

STATIONERY 

Best  papers  of  leading 
mills  and  office  supplies. 

CORRECT  ENGRAVING 
Is  largely  a  matter  of  ex- 
perience   and     facilities. 
We  have  both. 

Newest  ideas  in  In- 
vitations, Calling  Cards 
and  Monograms. 

J.  R.  Weldin  &  Co. 

429-431  Wood  St.,  Pittstureh 


Robbins  [lectric 
Companf 


G.  I).  Radclim 

INTERIOR 
DECORATOR 

Wall  Paper 

and 

Room  Mouldings 

ESTIMATES  FURNISHED 


830    LIBERTY    AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH 


Bell  Phone  2028  Highland 

5966  Baam  Street 

First  Store  Below  Sootb  HIcblud 


XIV 


T«G>LoAIIALlSvST  g»MPAWY 

317  FOURTH  AVE-314-318  DIAMONDST, 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Mllllona. 

"In  Oapital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Strength" 
Pays  Afe  on  Savings. 


®t|f  f  alar? 

235  FIFTH  AVENUE 


NOVBJL.TIBS  OF  EVERY  DESCRIPTION 

Suitable  for  Wedding  and  Anniversary  Gifts  and   Card  Prizes  in  China, 
Silver,  Cut  Grlass,  Leattier  and  Bronze 


-9- 


Euchre,  Bridge  and  "500^'  scores  distributed  gratis 


Compliments  ot 


C.  C.  Mellor  Co. 

319-321  FIFTH  AVE. 
PITTSBURG 


PIANOS  and 

"EVERYTHING    MUSICAL" 


Phone,  Bell  934-J  Cedar  P.  &  A.  1392  A 

K   31.    W^imh 

DELICATESSEN 


Fine  line  of  Imported  Fish,  Cheese, 

and  Meats;  also  fine  line  of  Fish, 

Oysters  and  Clams.     Soft 

and  Hard  Shell  Crabs. 

Sea  Food  and  Game. 


68-69-70    Allegheny    Market 
North  Side,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Special     Delivery    to      East     End 
every    Saturday 


XV 


Germanla  Savings  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4%  on  Savings 


Old,   Conservative   and   Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


Telephones 
Bell  102  North 
P.  &  A.  102  North 


Besidence  Phone 
P.  &  A.  62  North 


I.  Willison  &  Son 

Funeral    Directors 

600-602  Cedar  Avenue, 
North  Side,   Pittsburg,  Pa. 


Chapel  For  Services 


Livery  and  Boarding  Stables 


'S 


COMPRESSED 


YERST 

Has  No  Equal 


/vx— 


I 


I 


301  S.  CRAIG  STREET 


XVI 


Pays  A%  on  Savings. 


317  FOURTH  AVE-314-318  DIAMONDS?, 


Pennsylvania  ebocolate  Company 

Preparers  of 


Reg.  D.  S.  Pat.  off.  1907 


(Chocolate  and  6ocoa 


The  cleanest  and  most  modern  chocolate  factory  in  the  world. 
Located  here  in  Pittsburgh. 

Ask  your  dealer  for  ZATEK  Chocolate  BILLETS 

Keg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off  1907  Beg  U.  8.  Pat.  1907 


DEVIL     CAKE 


M  cup  butter; 
IK  ™p  sugar; 
1  cup  sour  milk; 
1  teaspoon  vanilla; 


3  eggs; 

2J^  cups  flour; 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda; 

1  cup  Zatek  Cocoa. 


Mix  butter  and  eggs;  add  sugar,   milk,  flour  (well  sifted),  baking 
soda,  cocoa  and  vanilla-     Bake  in  a  lond  pan  in  moderately  hot  oven. 


Walter  C.  Jarrett 


PHOTOGRAPHER 


266  Shady  Ave.,         Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

BELL   PHONE  723   HIGHLAND 
XVII 


Germauia  Savings  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4^  on  Savings 


Old,   Conservative   and   Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


B.  SiB. 


American  culinary  science  attains  its 
daintiest  and  most  appetizing  degree,  then 
the  skill  of  its  housewives. 

It's  logical,  therefore,  that  the  home 
should  be  provided  with  modern  appliances 
to  aid  the  housewife  and  her  assistants  in 
their  efforts 

In  our  House  Furnishings  section  will 
be  found  numerous  Kitchen  Untensils  of 
inestimable  value. 

BOGGS  &  BUHL 


Quality  Above  Competition 
Prices    Below   Competition 

If  you're  just  as  careful  in 
selecting  high  quality  materials  as 
you  are  in  following  carefully  tested 
receipes,  you'll  come  to  us  for  your 
groceries. 

We  are  just  as  careful  in  testing 
the  quality  of  the  goods  we  sell  as 
you  have  been  in  testing  these  re- 
ceipes. We  buy  with  caution  so  that 
you  may  use  with  confidence,  and  eat 
with  a  relish. 

Everything  of  the  finest  in 
Groceries,  Fruits,  Vegetables,  Bakery 
Products  Etc. 

Clark  Bros.  &  Co. 


6110  Penn  Ave. 
East  Bud 


near  Centre 
Plttsbure 


Demmler-Meyer  Co. 

Formerly  Demmler  Bros.  Store  Department 
EVERYTHING  FOR  THE  KITCHEN 

House  Furnishing  Goods, 
Ranges,  Refrigerators,  Hotel 
and  Restaurant  Outfits  and 
Supplies. 

Hardware  and  Cutlery 

633  Liberty  Avenue 
Pittsburg,  Pa. 


Telephones: 
Bell  Grant  225  P.  &  A.  Main  277 


XVIII 


TmeQjL®/^]  ALflOT  §MS»MY 

31T  FOURTH  AVE-3M-3I8  DIAMONDST. 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

"In  Capital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Strength" 

Pays  A.%  on  Savings. 


PITTSBURGH.  PENNA. 


Table    D'hote    Theatre    Suppek 
From  10:45  Until  Midnight 

ONE  DOLLAR 


AFTERNOON  TEA  ON  SATURDAY 
FROM  4  TO  5:30  P.  M. 


MUSIC    DURING     DINNER     AND 
UNTIL  12:30  A.  M. 


JA.MKS    RILEY 
PROPRIEia^OS  &>  Manaqxsr 


"Only  One  Piano  Factory" 

IN    WESTERN    PENNSYLVANIA 

SJ^^KLEBER'S 

FACTORY  IN  GREENSBURG 

PITTSBURGH  STORE  513  WOOD  ST. 

By  buying  direct  from  the  factory,  you 
save  the  Dealer's  and  Agent's  profits 

ONE  HUNDRED  DOLLARS 

KLEBER  PIANOS  have  received  en- 
thusiastic indorsements  of  the 
leading  Musicians  and  used 
in  8,000  homes 

Makers  of  the 
Schenley,   Adams   and   Henry    Pianos 

EASY  PAYMENTS. 


I'T  TIROW  AWAY  YOUR  OLD  CARPETS 


But  have  them  made  over  into  hand- 
some and  serviceable  Rugs, 
especially  adaptable  for 
libraries,  dining  rooms,    bed   rooms, 
bath  rooms,  halls  and  porches 

THE  ALLEN   RUG  WEAVING  AND 
CARPET  CLEANING  CO. 

Office 
5983  Centre  Avenue 

Works: 
Cor.  Putman  St.  &  P.  R.  R. 

Pittsburg,  Pa. 


HELLO! 

YES! 

IT  CAN  BE  DONE  BY 

VAeUUM 

We  clean  everything  successfully: 

Carpets,   Upholstered  Furni- 
ture, Mattresses,  Etc.   We 
also     have     experienced 
workmen  for   washing 
Fresco     Paint     and 
cleaning  wall  paper 

Vacuum  Cleaner  Co. 

OF  PITTSBURG 

H.  MUNZESHEIMER,  Mgr. 

4614  Forbes  St. 


'Phone  135  Schenley 


XIX 


Qermaula  SavluKs  Bank 

COR.  OF  WOOD  AND  DIAMOND 

Pays  4fe  on  Savinss 


Old,   Conservative   and   Strong. 
Founded  1870. 


CUT     FLOWERS, 
PALMS  AND  FERNS 

Randolph  &  McClements 

FLORAL  EXPERTS 


-TWO    STOBES- 


Baxun  and  Beatty  Sts.  6002  Perm  Ave. 

E.  E.  PITTSBURGH,  PA. 

BOTH     PHONES 


JOHN  J.  GARRY 

318  Bissell  Block 
Cor.  7th  Ave.  and  Smitbfleld  St. 

PITTSBURGH 

Bell  Plione  2881-R  Qraiit 


=ORIEINX/\L       RUGS5 


"Xhe  Proof  of  the  Pudding  is  in  the  eating 

The     Recipe    on  the  opposite  page  is  one  of 
"A   Hundred  Dainty  Dishes" 

Served  Daily  in  the 


II 


M\a  R 


OK    THE 

HOTEL    LINCOLN 

6th  and  Penn  Ave.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


XX 


FILLETS  OF  CHICKEN  WITH  FORCEMEAT. 

(An  entree  made  from  one  chicken  to  serve  eig:ht) 

By  Mr.  G.  Schult  (Heddelin) 

Steward  Hotel  Lincoln. 

Remove  the  fillets  with  care,  to  avoid  separating  the  mignon  and 
large  fillets.  Cut  each  side  lengthwise  into  four  fillets;  bat  each  to  a  uni- 
forn  thickness  with  a  broad  knife  wet  in  cold  water,  dispose  in  a  buttered 
agate  pan,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  a  butter- 
ed paper  and  cook  about  five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven ,  then  press 
under  a  light  weight  until  cold.  Free  the  meat,  taken  from  the  first  and 
second  joints,  of  skin  and  sinew-  To  each  half  pound  of  meat  add  four 
ounces  of  panada,  one  ounce  of  butter,  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  pound 
in  a  mortar  to  a  smooth  paste,  adding  meanwhile  two  raw  eggs-  When 
well  blended  press  through  a  sieve.  Spread  this  to  the  depth  of  half  an 
inch  over  the  fillets,  smooth  the  tops  and  edges  with  a  knife  wet  in  hot 
water  and  trim  the  fillets  into  shape  if  needed;  put  into  a  buttered  saute 
pan,  add  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  sherry  wine  and  set  into  the  oven  for  about 
fifteen  minutes  or  until  firm  to  the  touch.  Dispose  the  fillets  on  a  border 
of  forcemeat  or  potato  and  fill  the  center  with  a  ragout  of  button  mush- 
rooms and  chicken  quenelles,  or  of  peas  or  asparagus  in  a  rich  sauce. 


T^EgLONlALlSU5T©APAAIY 

•17  FSURTH  AVE  — at4-a1S  DIAMOND  «T 


Capital  and  Surplus  10  Millions. 

"In  Capital  and  Surplus  there  Is  Strength" 

Pays  Af'  on  Savings. 


Jlntiounceinetit  to  Our  Patrons 

On  May  1st,  1906  ,we  purchased  the  Photographic  Studio  of  C.  A.  Jarrett, 
6200  Fean  Avenue,  Vilsack  Building,  Mr.  C.  A.  Jarrett  going  into  other  business. 

In  the  two  and  one-half  years  we  have  conducted  the  Studio,  our  greatest 
aim  has  been  to  please  our  Patrons  by  courteous  treatment,  superior  workman- 
ship and  prompt  delivery,  and  have  succeeded  in  more  than  doubling  the 
business. 

Thanking  you  for  your  past  patronage  and  trusting  a  continuance  of  same 
in  the  future,  we  remain,  Respectfully, 

SCHALDENBRAND  BROS. 

Phone,  Highland  721  6200  Penn  Avenue 

Studio  will  be  known  as  scnoideniirondBros.  on  ond  oiler  oci.  isi,  1908  nod  oNorreiisiudio 

Fancy  IMPORTED  and  DOMESTIC  Food  Products 

JOHN  DAUB'S  SONS 

GROCERS 

647  Smithfield  St.  Pittsburgh 


Bell  Telephone  419  Grant 


P.  &  A.  Telephone  1924  Main 


J.  R.  PULPRESS 

DEALER    IN 

» 

Fish,  Oysters  and 
Game 

Stands  76  and  78 
Allegheny   Market 

greater   pittsburgh,    pa. 

Bell  Phone  228  Cedar 


A,  GOLDIIIG[R 


FURRIER 


5939  Penn  Ave.,  E.  E. 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


xxn 


