
^SSmS'^'"'*''"T5§^E' 



. — — — ~— — f 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








,^-^i^~ "-' = - 


<s 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086713074 



|0 

I CO 

100 
|0 

= CM 

ia> 



ICO 



CENTENNIAL 



BUCKEYE 



COOK BOOK, 



COMPILED BY 



THE WOMEN 



OF THE 



MARYSVILLE, OHIO. . 



*'Bad dinners go hand in hand with total depravity, while a properly fed man 
is already half saved." 



MARYSVILLE : 

J. H. Shearer & Son. 
1876. 



Entered according to an Act of Congress, in the year 1876, by the 

Women of the FIRST CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, Marysville, Ohio, 

In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



THE TRIBUNE, PRINTERS, ENGRAVERS AND BINDERS, MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 



TO THE 

PLUCKY HOUSEWIVES 

OF 1876, 

WHO MASTER THEIR WORK INSTEAD OF ALLOWING 
IT TO MASTER THEM, 

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED. 



LICENSED BY 
H. E. Newton, Minneapolis, Minn., under Trade-Mark No. 5875, issued from 
United States Patent Office, July 25th, I876. 



PREFACE, 



The compilation of this new candidate for the favor 
of housekeepers, was begun as a labor of love iij the 
interest of a weak and struggling church, with little 
expectation that it would reach its present proportions, 
but the women of the church, who had the work in 
hand, met a most kind and generous response from 
friends in every part of the country, and soon found 
themselves in possession of material for a book, fuller, 
more complete and practical, and better adapted to 
the wants of the average American housewife than 
any previous work. This material, made up as it was 
of choice bits of the best experience of hundreds 
who have long traveled the daily round of household 
duties, they found to be of the greatest interest to 
themselves as practical housekeepers, and believing it 
would equally interest and benefit all who came into 
possession of it, they determined to arrange, classify 
and publish it in a more convenient and substantial 
form than was at first intended, primarily, of course, 
in the interest of their beloved church, but scarcely 
less, they believe, in the interest of their sister 
housewives. 



VI PREFACE. 



The work of compiling has been done in time 
snatched from other duties, and the one aim has been 
to express ideas as clearly and concisely as possible, 
and to arrange all with especial reference to con- 
venience, following so far as possible the simple order 
of the alphabet. The instructions which precede the 
recipes of each department, have been carefully made 
up and are entirely trustworthy, and the recipes 
themselves are new to print, well endorsed, and, it is 
believed, invaluable to young or old housekeepers. 
Several new features have been introduced, which 
though not belonging strictly, to cookery, bear such 
close relations to it that the fitness of their appearance 
in the connection is evident. The very full tables of 
time and measures, and the articles on Housekeeping, 
Marketing, Carving, The Sick Room, The Laundry, 
Hints to the Well, and the Medical and Floral de- 
partments will be found quite as suggestive as the 
pages which precede them. 

There has been no attempt at display or effect, the 
only purpose being to make a thoroughly simple and 
practical work. In the^effort to avoid the mistakes of 
others, greater errors may have been committed, but 
the work is submitted just as it is to the generous 
judgment of those who consult it, with the hope that 
it may lessen their perplexities, and stimulate that just 
pride without which work is drudgery and great 
excellence impossible. 



CONTENTS. 



BREAD. 



Instructions — Sponge — Bread — Coffee Bread — Light Yeast PAGE 
Bread — Milk Yeast Bread— Poor Man's Bread— Salt 
Rising Bread — Yeast Bread — Buckeye Brown Bread — 
Brown Bread — Eastern Brown Bread — Graham Bread — 
Steamed Corn Bread — Boston Com Bread — Mrs. B.'s 
Com Bread — Corn Cake — Corn Bread I7~3S 

BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

Instructions — Breakfast Cake — Buns — North Carolina Buns — 
Buttered Toast — Breakfast Toast — Minnonite Toast — Milk 
Toast — Mrs. Gould's Drop Cakes — Lucy's Pop Overs — 
Pocket Books — Rusk — South Carolina Biscuit — Soda Bis- 
cuit — Superior Biscuit — Spoon Biscuit — Sally Lunn — 
American House Rolls — Cream of Tartar Rolls — Common 
Rolls— French Rolls— Nice Rolls— Philadelphia Rolls- 
Rolls — Wedding Sandwich Rolls — Crumpets — Muffins — 
Quick Waffles — Waffles — Egg Crackers — Buckwheat Short 
Cake — Centennial Biscuit — Corn Rolls — Cushman Cake — 
Com Mush — ^Johnny Cake — Rhode Island "Spat Outs"— Gra- 
ham Biscuit — Mrs. Buxton's Graham Gems — Graham 
Gems — •'Gems without sour milk — Muffins — Rye or Graham 
Drop Cakes — Biscuit for Dyspeptics — Graham Mush — 
Graham Muffins 3S~SI 

FRITTERS. 

Instructions — Apple Fritters — Clam Fritters — Corn Oysters — 
Cream Fritters — Cucumber Fritters — Fritters — Snow Fritters 
— Vanities 52-54 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Instructions — Buckwheat — Bread — Breakfast — Batter — Crumb 

— Flannel — Indian — Rice — Soft Short — Tomato Batter . . S4-58 

YEAST. V 

Instructions — Dry — Hop — Potato — To Hasten Milk Yeast 58-65 



via. CONTENTS. 



CAKE. 

Instructions — Centennial — Buckeye — Almond — Black — PAGE 

Breakfast — Bread — Cream Cider — Corn Starch — Coffee 

— Cup — Caramel — Cincinnati — Delicate — Salem Election — 
Old Hartford Election — Apple Fruit — Fruit Loaf— Farmer's 
Fruit — Poor Man's Fruit — Scotch Fruit — Thanksgiving 
Fruit — Feather — Fig — Grove — Hard Money — Hayes — 
Hoosier — Hickory Nut — Imperial — Lady — Yellow Lady — 
Lemon — Raised Loaf — Loaf — Aunt Hettie's Loaf — Min- 
ister's — Marble — Marbled Chocolate — One Egg — Orange — 
Peach — Plain — Citron Pound — Measured Pound — Pyramid 
Pound — White Pound — Queen Vic^Sponge — ^Sheridan — 
Spice — Snovr — Tea — Ten Minute — Tilden — Watermelon — 
Wedding— White 66-94 

LAYER CAKES. 

Instructions — Almond — Almond Cream — Boston Cream — 
French Cream — Ice Cream — Tip-Top Cream — Cocoanut — 
Caramel — Cooper — Chocolate — Just Splendid Custard — 
Hard Times — Lady Fingers — Lemon — Minnehaha — Nea- 
politan — Orange — Rolled— Ribbon — Snow — Velvet Sponge 
— Vanity — Washington — White Mountain 94-104 

FROSTING. 

Instructions — Almond Frosting — Boiled Frosting — Frosting 

Frosting with Gelatine — Frosting' without Egg^-Hickory 

Nut Frosting — Ornamental Frosting — Yellow Frosting . . 105-108 

CRULLERS AND DOUGHNUTS. 

Instructions — Crullers — Fried Cakes — Albert's Favorite 

Doughnuts — Raised Doughnuts — Sponge Doughnuts . . 108-110 

COOKIES AND JUMBLES. 

Instructions— Ada's Sugar Cakes — Cookies — Lemon Snaps — 
Molasses Cookies — Nutmeg Cookies — Peppernuts — Sand 
Tarts— Cocoanut Jumbles — Rich Jumbles 110-H2 

GINGER BREAD. 

Instructions — Aunt Molly's Ginger Bread — Ginger Bread 

Excellent Soft Ginger Bread— Sponge Ginger Bread — 



CONTENTS. IX 



Ginger Cookies — Ginger Crackers — Ginger Cakes — Best PAGE 

Ginger Drops — Ginger Puffs — Ginger Snaps — Hotel Ginger 

Snaps . 1 12-124 

CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

Instructions — Charlotte Rus^e — Hamburg Cream — Italian 
Cream — Rock Cream — Tapioca Cream — Velvet Cream — 
Whipped Cream — Blanc Mange — Raspberry Blanc Mange 
Mont Blanc — Apple Custard — Apple Snow — Chocolate 
Custard — Corn Meal Custard — Floating Island — Flummery 
— Good Baked Custard — Lemon Custard — Rice Custard — 
Spiced Chocolate — Snow Flake . , , .... 125-132 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Instructions — Centennial Drops — Buckeye Kisses — Almond 
Macaroons — Buckeye Butter Scotch — Canellons — Chocolate 
Caramels — Chocolate Drops — Cocoanut Caramels — Cocoa- 
not Drops — Everton Ice Cream Candy^ — Graham Cakes — 
Hickory Nut Taffy — Hickory Nut Macaroons — Lemon 
Candy — Molasses Candy — Pyramid of Cocoanut Drops — 
Pop Corn Balls — Peanut Candy — Sugared Calamus, or 
Sweet Flag — Sugared Pop Corn 133-140 

CANNING FRUITS. 

Ipstnictions — Blackberries — Green Gooseberries — Peaches or 
Pears — Peaches — Pine Apples — Peaches — Strawberries — 
Corn — Sweet Corn — Tomatoes in Stone Jugs — Tomatoes — 
Watermelon 141-150 

CATSUP AND SAUCES. 

Instructions — Cucumber — Currant — Cherry — Gooseberry — 
Tomato — Bread Sauce — Cranberry — Celery — Curry Powder 
— Chili Sauce — Drawn Butter — Holland Sauce — Oyster 
Sauce — Onion Sauce — Parsley Sauce — Roman Sauce- 
Salad Sauce — To Prepare Mustard 151-157 

DRINKS. 

Instructions — Coffe^^nd Tea — Coffee with Whipped Cream 
— Cocoa — Chocolate — Cider — Grandmother's Harvest 
Drink — Lemonade — Lemon Syrup — Apple Tea — Iced Tea 1 58-164 



CONTENTS. 



EGGS. 

Instructions — Boiled Eggs — Baked Eggs^Eggs on Toast — PAGE 
Egg Gems — Frizzled Ham and Eggs — Omelet — Corn 
Omelet— Omelet Souffle— Puff Omelet— Poached Eggs- 
Rumbled Eggs 165-170 



FISH. 

Instructions — Fried, Baked and Boiled — Brook Trout — Fish 
Balls — Croquettes of Fish— Fish Chowder — Katy's Codfish 
— Baked Herring 171-175 

FRUITS. 

Instructions — Ambrosia — Iced Currants — Mock Strawberries 

— Peach Pyramid 176-178 

GAME. 

Instructions — Broiled Pheasant, Squirrels and Prairie Chickens 
— Partridge Pie — Prairie Chickens — Roast Quails — Roast 
Haunch of Venison 179-183 

ICES AND ICE CREAM. 

Instructions — Chocolate Ice Cream — Ice Cream — Lemon and 
Orange Ice Cream — Pine. Apple Ice Cream — Mrs. Wat- 
son's Ice Cream — Apple Ice 184-188 

JELLIES AND JAMS. 

Instructions — Apple and Blackberry — Currant — Cranberry — 
Grape — Lemon — Quince — Crabapple — Wild Crabapple — 
Wine — Blackberry Jam — Currant — Gooseberry — Rasp- 
berry—Strawberry 189-194 

MEATS. 

Instructions — Broiled Beefsteak — Fried Beefsteak — Beef- 
steak Toast — Beefsteak Smothered in Onions — Boiled 
Corn Beef— Beef a la Mode— Boiled Fresh and Salt Beef 
Tongue— Ragout Beef— Roast Meat with Pudding— Frizzled 
Beef— Fried Liver— Toad-in-the-Hole— Mutton Chops- 
Boiled Leg of Mutton — Roast Leg of Mutton — Fricatelli — 
Boiled Ham — Broiled Ham — Delicious Fried Ham — 



CONTENTS. XI 



Mixed Sandwiches — Spare Rib Pot-Pie — Pig's Feet Sauce page 
—Pork Head-Cheese— Fried Salt Porlc— Yankee Pork and 
Beans — Sausage — Canned Sausage or Tenderloin — Fried 
Veal Cutlets— Pate de Veau— Roast Loin of Veal— Veal 
Stew — Veal Sweetbread 195-211 

OYSTERS. 

Instructions — Escaloped Oysters — Fried Oysters — Oyster 

Fritters — Oyster Patties — Oyster Short Cake — Oyster Pie . 212-214 

PASTRY. 

Instructions — Aunty Phelps' Pie Crust — Apple Pie — Apple 
Meringue — Dried Apple — Sliced Apple — Cream — -Crumb 
— Cocoanut — Combination — Custard — Lemon — Mince 
Meat — Mock Mince — Pie-Plant — Dried Peach — Potato — 
Pumpkin — Bina's Strawberry Short Cake — Orange Short 
Cake — Cream Tarts . 215-225 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

Instructions — Apple Roley Foley — Boiled Apple Dumplings 
— Birdnest — Bread — Batter — Cottage — Corn Starch — Mor- 
ange — Fannie's Pudding — Fruit — Fig — Green Corn — 
Boiled Indian — Jelly — Kiss — Lemon — March — Orange 
Souffle — Plum — Pop Corn — Quick Puff — Rice — Sago and 
Apple — Suet — Transparent — Apple Tapioca — Grandma 
Thompson's White Pudding — Bread Pudding Sauce — Cream 
— Every Day — Lemon 226-237 

PRESERVES. 

Instructions — Cherry — Pear — Peach — Quince — Tomato — 
Watermelon ^Rind — Apple Butter — Lemon Butter — Peach 
Marmalade — Mrs. Cooper's Marmalade — Dried Apple 
Sauce 238-243 

PICKLES. 

Instructions — Chow Chow Pickles — Chow Chow — Cauli- 
flower Pickle — Cucumber Pickles — Chopped and Sliced 

Pickles Mangoes, Nasturtions and Peppers — Pickled 

Chicken — Pickled Oysters — Pickled Onions — Piccalilli — 
Pyfer Pickles — Spanish Pickles — Pickled Cucumbers — 
Spiced Currants — Pickled Grapes — Spiced Grapes — Spiced 



XII CONTENTS. 



Gooseberries — Muskmelon Pickles — Peach Pickles — Pear page 
nd Apple Pickles — Euckered Plums — Pickled Raisins — 
Sweet Tomato Pickles — Pickled Walnuts or Butternuts — 
Watermelon Pickles ... 244-25 

POULTRY. 

Instructions^ — Baked Chickens — Boned Chicken — Chicken or 
Beef Croquettes — Broiled Chicken or Quails — Chickens 
for Lunch — Chicken Pot-Pie — Chicken Pie — Chicken Pie 
with Oysters — Dressing for Chicken — Fried Spring Chicken 
— Fried Gumbo — ^Jellied Chicken — Roast Turkey — Roast 
Turkey with Oyster Dressing — English Roast Turkey . . 258-270 

SALADS. 

Instructions — Sidney Smith's Winter Salad — Cabbage Salad — 
Chicken Saled — Cucumber Salad — Ham Salad — Herring 
Salad — Tomato Salad — Salad Dressing — Cream Dressing 
for Cold Slaw — Dressing for Lettuce — Cream Slaw . . 271-275 

SOUPS. 

Instructions — Clam — Beef and Noodle — Grandmothers' Bean 
— Green Corn — Green Pea — Mock Turtle — Oyster — Pot au 
Feu — Tomato — Turkey — Veal — Vermicelli 276-284 

VEGETABLES. 

Instructions — Asparagus — A Good Boiled Dinner — Beets and 
Young Beet Greens — Baked Beets — String and Shelled 
Beans — Bina's Stewed Corn — Dried Corn — Drying Corn — 
Preserving Corn — Boiled Cauliflower — Stuffed Cabbage — 
Stewed Cabbage with Egg and Fried Cabbage — Egg Plant — 
ItalUan Macaroni — Macaroni — Boiled and Fried Onions — ' 
Boiled and Baked Potatoes, Baked and steamed Sweet 
Potatoes — Fricassee of Old Potatoes and Fried Potatoes — 
Fried Raw Potatoes— M.ished Potatoes— New Potatoes- 
Potato Cakes — Saratoga Potatoes— Baked Parsnips— Green 

Peas — Peas Stewed in Cream— How to boil Rice — Salsify 

Summer Squash— Winter Squash — Succotash — Baked To- 
matoes — Mother' Sliced Tomatoes — Stewed Tomatoes — To- 
motoes in Brine — Tomato Toast — Turnips . . . 285-301 

CENTENNIAL GOVERNORS. 
Lemon Custard— Soda Biscuit— Potato Pudding— Rice Cake— 



CONTENTS. XIII 



Buford Cake — Salad Dressing — To keep Cut Roses Fresh — PAGE 

Veal Loaf — Isinglass Jelly — Silver Cake — French Pickle — 

Cup Cake — Maine Sponge Cake — Good Bread — Orange 

Pie — Christmas Plum Pudding — ^Black Cake — White Sponge 

Cake — Delicious Pumpkin Pie — Orange Cake — Iced Plum 

Pudding — Charlotte Russe — Lemon Ice — Enchilidas — Spice 

Cake — Snow Custard 302-312 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
Cooks' Table — Liquids Avoirdupois — Liquid Measure ... 313 

COOKS' TIME TABLE. 

Mode of Preparation — Time of Cooking — Time of Diges- 
tion . 314-31S 

BILLS OF FARE. 

Spring Breakfast, Dinner and Supper — Summer Breakfast, 
Dinner and Supper — Autumn Breakfast, Dinner and Sup- 
per — Winter Breakfast, Dinner and Supper — Lunch No. i 
and 2 — Tea for Company — Economical Breakfast No. i 
and 2 — Economical Dinner No. 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 . . 316-317 

FRAGMENTS. 

How Mother makes Hash — After Thanksgiving Dinner — Al- 
ways Save — Sweet Pickles — A Crumb of Bread — Stuifed 
Beefsteak— How to make nice Gravy — The care of Fat and 
Drippings 3'8-32« 

HINTS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

Instructions— Arrow Root Custard — Alum Whey— Beef Tea— 
• Barley Water — Chicken Broth for Sick— Egg Gruel— Fever 
Drink— Graham Gems for Invalids— Jellies— Mulled Butter- 
milk Milk Porridge— Oat Meal for the Sick— Panada — 

Raspberry Vinegar — Raspberiy Relish — Currant Shrub — 
Sassafras Drink— Toast Tea— Tamarind Whey— Vegetable 

Soup Wine Whey— Wheat Gruel— Excelsior Blackberry 

Wine 322-326 

HINTS FOR THE WELL. 
Instructions— A Dyspeptic's Fight for Life 327-329 



XIV CONTENTS. 



HINTS ABOUT MARKETING. 

Beef— Veal — Mutton — Lamb — Pork — Turkey — Geese— PAGE 
Ducks — Fowls — Pheasants — Quails — Pigeons — Prairie 
Chickens — Plover — Woodcock — Snipe — Venison— Fresh 
Fish— Salt Fish— Smoked, Fish— Wood' . . . , 330-334 



HOW TO CUT AND CURE MEATS. 

The Divisions of the Hind and Fore Quarters of Beef, Veal, 
Pork and Mutton — Brine for Beef, Tongue, Hams and 
Pickled Pork— To Cure Hams— To Keep Hams 335-337 



CARVING. 

Turkey — Chickens — Partridges — Sirloin of Beef — Shoulder of 
Mutton — Ham — Leg of Mutton — Tongue — Haunch of 
Venison — Loin and Fillet of Veal — -Breast of Veal — Fish . 338-340 

HOUSEKEEPING. 

As an Accomplishment — The Model House and the care of 
it — The Parlor — The Sitting Room — The Dining Room — 
The Bed Room— The Guest Chamber— The Kitchen- 
House Cleaning — General Suggestions — Housekeeper's 
Alphabet 341-352 

THE LAUNDRY. 

Instructions — Prof. Liebig's Washing Fluid — Soap for Family 
use —Bluing — Flour Starch — To make Fine Starch — En- 
amel for Shirt Bosoms — How to do up Shirt Bosoms — To 
Wash Flannels— To Wash Blankets— To Wash Lace Cur- 
tains — To Wash Thread Lace — To Wash a Silk Dress — 
Gall Soap— To Prevent Blue from Fading — To Bleach 
Muslin — Brown Linen^-To clean articles made of White 
^^P^y 353-358 

FLORAL. 

My Morning Glories — House Plants — To keep Plants without 
a fire at night— Window Gardening — Sure Shot for Rose 
Slugs — Another — To Prepare'Autumn Leaves and Ferns — 
To Prepare Skeleton Leaves — Drying Flowers — To Crys- 
talize Grasses— To make a Rustic Flower Stand — To Pro- 



CONTENTS. XV 



tect Dahlias from Earwigs — To Clear Rose Trees from page 
Blight — To Free Bedding Plants from Leaf Lice — An ex- 
cellent Shading for a Green House 359-363 

FARM AND GARDEN. 

Apples— The Cherry — Pears — The Quince — To Raise Plants 
of Currants and Gooseberries — To Prevent Mildew on 
Gooseberry Bushes — The Raspberry — Remedy for the Plum 
Curculio— To Prevent Rabbits from Eating the Bark of 
young Fruit Trees — Protecting Cabbage from Worms — ^To 
Raise Celery — How to Raise Indian Cgrn — Remedy for 
Smut in Wheat — The Horse — Good Feed for Horses — For 
Colic in Horses — For Wounds in Horses, for Botts in 
Horses, Loss of Appetite in Horses — Cure for Bloat in 
Calves and Horses — If Cows give Bloody Milk — Choked 
Cattle — Lice on Cattle — Hog Cholera — To Kill Ticks on 
Sheep — To Cure Grub in Sheep — To Cure Foot Rot in 
Sheep — Chicken Cholera — Gapes in Chickens — To Remove 
Lice on Fowls — Chicken Feed — To Prevent Cats Killing 
Chickens 364-370 

MEDICAL. 

Antidotes to Poison — Diphtheria — Scarlet Fever — Cholera 
Mixture — Pig's Feet Oil-^Cure for Corns — Good Croup 
Remedies— Constipation — Sure Cure for Cholera Infantum 
— Blackberry Cordial — Eye Wash — For Sore Mouth in 
Nursing Babies — Golden Ointment for Salt Rheum, Scald 
Head and Catarrh — Healing Salve — Itch Ointment — Salve 
for Cuts and Burns — Liniment — ;Salt Rheum — Tetter Oint- 
ment' — Teas — For Sore Throat — To Prevent a Child 
Coughing at Night — To Prevent Taking Cold — To Cure a 
Felon — To Stop Bleeding at the Nose — To Stop Bleeding — 
Whooping Cough— To Remove Warts — Cure for Wounds 
from Rusty Nails — ^To Remove Cinder from the Eye . . . 371-376 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Canai-y Birds — Teeth — Cutting Teeth — Queen Bess Complex- 
ion Wash — Cologne Water — Clean Hair Brushes — Boston 
Bemett Powder — For Chapped Hands, Face or Lips — In- 
delible Ink — Magic Furniture Polish — To Clean Silverware 
Easily — To Make Rag Rugs — To Destroy Weeds in Walks 
— To Keep away Moths — To Preserve Books — Black for 
Woolens — Unfermented Wine for Communion — To Press 
Satin — To Press and Clean Black Silk — To take out Mil- 



XVI CONTENTS. 



dew — Cement for Mending Stone Jars, etc., Cement for at- page 
taching Metal to Glass, Cement for China, To Paste Paper 
on Tin, Cement for Horn, Pearl, Shell and Bone — Light- 
ning Cream for Clothes or Paint — Cochineal Coloring . . 377-380 

HIT AND MISS. 

Baking Powder — Bread — Soda Biscuit — Cranberries — Jap- 
anese Paperware — Maryland Biscuit — Lebanon Rusk — 
Sauer Kraut- -To Keep Butter Fresh — Clover Vinegar . . 381-382 

THE FRUGAL HOUSEWIFE. 

Title Page — To Roast Venison — A Fowl or Turkey Roasted 

with Chestnuts — To Jug Pigeons — A Steak Pudding . . . 383-384 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Hind and Fore Quarter of Beef — Veal — Pork — Mutton — Sir- 
loin of Beef — Shoulder of Mutton — Ham — Leg of Mutton — 
Tongue — Haunch of Venison 335-34° 

ADVERTISEMENTS. 

Duryea's Starch — Delaware Fence Co. — The Independent 
— Way's Clothes Wringer — Landis' Clothes Horse — The 
Christian Union — Dr. E. F. Townsend — Domestic Steam 
Engine — St. John's Sewing Machine — W. H. Robinson — 
Hitt, White & Mitchell— Robinson Bros. & Co. —House- 
keeper's Companion — Union County Journal — Harrison 
Kitchen Safe — ^John H. Cause & Co. — Whiteley, Fassler 
& Kelly — Smith & Curtis— The Congregationalist — Mrs. A. 
H. Sells — Freemans, Staley & Morton— Woods, Weeks & 
Co.— C. G. & E. W. Crane— Gillet's Cream Yeast— Prof ' 
Wm. B. Tarr— W. Z. Evans— Halm, Bellows, & Butler— 
Buchan's Carbolic Soap— Jas. C. Dunn — Pocket Cook 
Stove— L. M. Baker— J. Landon— J. H. Shearer & Son— Mrs. 
C. S. Ogden— F. O. Pierson— R. Brandriff— C. M. Ingman 
— W. E. Baxter— Leroy Decker— Morey & Son— N. S. 
Long— O. M. Scott—B. Newlove— H. W. Morey, D. D. S. 
— McCloud & Bro.— Mahncke, Muchlenbruch & Co.— S. L. 

Irwin — Robinson & Robinson — S. McCampbell & Son 

Marysville Butter Tub and Spoke Co— Morse Bros.— Lever 
Spring Bed Co 385-407 



THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



BREAD MAKING. 



" All that a man hath will he give for his life ;" and 
yet thousands are daily robbed of half life's worth 
because its staff is so unsuitably prepared. There is 
no one thing upon which the health and comfort of a 
family so much depend as light, sweet, tender bread ; 
and the only kind that is good for the health, and at 
the same time acceptable to the palate, is the well- 
raised, home-made loaf The coarsest fare is acceptable 
and appetizing with good bread, but the most luxurious 
table is not even tolerable without it. If for breakfast 
you have light crisp rolls, for dinner, spongy, sweet 
bread, and for supper, flaky raised, biscuit, the bill of 
fare will be excellent the year round. Although 
bread making seems a simple process, it requires 
delicate care and watchfulness, and a thorough 
knowledge of all the contingencies of the process, 
dependent upon the different qualities of flour, 
2 



18 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

the ■ varying kinds and conditions of yeast, and the 
change of seasons — (as the process of raising bread in 
winter makes it sour in summer.) There are many 
little things in bread making which require accurate 
observation, and though you may have valuable reci- 
pes and well defined methods in detail, nothing but 
experience will secure the name merited by so few, 
though earnestly coveted by every practical, sensible 
housekeeper, — "an excellent bread-maker." Three 
things are indispensable to success, — good flour, good 
yeast, and watchful care. Good flour adheres to the 
hand, and, if pressed, shows the impress of the lines 
of the skin. Its tint is cream white ; never buy that 
which has a blue-white tinge. Poor flour is not adhe- 
sive, can be blown about easily, and sometimes has a 
dingy look, as though mixed with ashes. Never use 
flour without sifting, and you will find a large tin or 
wooden pail with a tight fitting cover, kept full of 
sifted flour, a great convenience. All kinds of flour 
and meal, except buckwheat and Graham, need sift- 
ing, and all except wheat flour should be bought in 
small quantities as they become damp and musty by 
long standing. 

THE SPONGE. 

This is made from warm water or milk, yeast and 
flour, (some add mashed potatoes,) mixed together in 
proper proportions. In summer, care must be taken 
not to set sponge too early, at least not before nine or 
ten o'clock in the evening. Make up a rather thick 
batter of flour and tepid water or milk ; scald the 



BREAD. 19 

latter to prevent souring, and cool before using ; add 
yeast, cover closely, and place to rise on the kitchen 
table. In very hot weather, sponge can be made with 
cold water. In winter, mix the batter with very warm 
water or milk, (blood warmth, 98°; testing it with the 
finger, and making it as warm as you can bear) ; stir 
in the flour, and this will cool it sufficiently for the 
yeast. Cover closely and place in a warm and even 
temperature. A good plan is to fold a clean blanket 
several times and cover over, providing the sponge is 
set in a very large crock or jar, So that there is no 
danger of its rising and running over. As a general 
rule, one small teacup of yeast and three pints of 
" wetting " will make sponge enough for four ordinary 
loaves. A very excellent sponge, (especially for winter 
use), is made with mashed potatoes, as follows : peel 
and boil four or five medium sized potatoes in two 
quairts of water ; (it will boil down to one quart) ; 
when done, take out, press through a colander, or 
mash very fine in the crock in which you make your 
sponge ; make a well in the center, into which put one 
cup of flour, and pour over it the boiling water from 
the potatoes ; stir thoroughly, and when cool, add a 
pint of tepid water, flour enough to make a thin bat- 
ter, and a cup of yeast. This sponge makes very 
moist bread. In all sponges, add the yeast last, being 
sure that it will not scald ; when placed to rise, always 
cover closely. Many think it an improvement to beat 
the sponge thoroughly, like batter for a cake. All 
the various sponges are very nice baked on a griddle 
for breakfast cakes, or, better still, in muffin rings. 



20 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

When used in this way, add a little salt and make your 
sponge rather thick. 

TO MAKE YOUR BREAD. 
Always be 

" Up in the morning early, just at the peep of Jay,'' 

in summer time to prevent the sponge becoming sour 
by too long standing, and in winter to be getting 
materials warmed and in readiness for use. A large, 
seamless tin dish pan with handles and a tight-fitting 
cover, kept for this purpose alone, is better than a 
wooden bowl for bread. It should be thoroughly 
washed and scalded every time it is used. Measure 
and sift the flour. It is convenient to keep two quart 
cups, one for dry and the other for liquid measuring. 
In winter, always warm the flour and also the sponge. 
Put the flour in bread pan, make a large well in the 
center, into which pour your sponge, adding a small 
handful or two level teaspoons salt, (this is the quantity 
for four loaves of bread) ; mix well, being careful not 
to get the dough too stiff"; turn out on your bread 
board ; rub your pan clean, and add the " rubbings " to 
the bread. Knead for fully twenty minutes, or until 
your dough ceases to stick to either bread or pan. 
The process of kneading is very important. Some 
good bread makers knead with the palm of the hands 
until the dough is a flat cake, then fold once, repeating 
this operation until the dough is perfectly smooth and 
elastic; others close the hands and press hard and 
and quickly into the dough with the fists, dipping 
them into the flour when the dough sticks ; or, after 



BREAD. 21 

kneading, chop with the chopping knife and then 
knead again ; others still knead with a potato masher, 
thinking it a great saving of strength. No exact direc- 
tions can be given, but experience and practice 
will secure the desired results. After the bread is 
thoroughly kneaded, form into a round mass or large 
loaf; sprinkle the bread pan well with flour, and having 
placed the loaf in it, sprinkle flour lightly on the top, 
cover, and set to rise in a warm temperature ; let it 
rise well this time, say from one to two hours, owing 
to the season of the year. Place again on the bread 
board, knead lightly, — that is, with elastic movements, 
five minutes, and again form into one large loaf, return 
to pan, and let rise, not so long this time. Then 
knead down in the pan, cut into equal parts, place one 
at a time on the board, mould each into a smooth, 
oblong loaf, and put one after another into a well 
greased baking pan, and set to rise. In moulding, do 
not leave any lumps or loose flour adhering to the 
outside, but mould until the loaves are perfectly 
smooth. No particular directions can be given in 
regard to the time bread should stand after it is 
moulded and placed in the pans, because here is the 
point where observation and discretion are so indis- 
pensable. In hot weather when the yeast is very good 
and the bread very light, it must not stand over fifteen 
minutes before placing to bake. If it is cold weather 
and the yeast is less active, or the bread not perfectly 
raised, it may sometimes stand an hour in the pans 
without injury. When it is risen in the pans so as to 
seam or crack, it is ready for the oven ; if it stands 



22 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

after this it becomes sour, and even if it does not sour 
it loses its freshness and sweetness, and becomes dry- 
sooner by long standing. Bread, like cider, undergoes 
three fermentations : the saccharine or sweet fermen- 
tation; the vinous, when it smells something like 
foaming beer ; and if you would have good, sweet 
bread, you must never let it pass this change, because 
if you do, the third or acetous fermentation takes 
place. This last can be remedied by adding soda in 
the proportion of one teaspoon tq each quart of wet- 
ting ; or, which is the same thing, a teaspoon to four 
quarts flour ; but your bread will not be nearly so 
nutritious and healthful, and you have lost some of 
the best elements of the flour. Always add salt to all 
breads, biscuits, griddle cakes, etc.; never salt your 
sponge. A small quantity of white sugar is also an 
improvement to all bread dough. Bread should 
always be mixed as soft as it can be handled. 

TO BAKE YOUR BREAD. 

And here is an important point, for the bread may 
be perfect thus far, and then spoiled in baking. No 
definite rules can be given that will apply equally, 
well to every stove, but one general rule must be ob- 
served, which is to have a steady, moderate heat, such 
as you will find more minutely described in the 
directions for baking large cakes. The oven must be 
just hot enough ; if too hot, a firm crust is formed 
before the bread has expanded enough, and it will be 
heavy. Many test the oven by sprinkling a little flour 
on the bottom ; if it browns very quickly it is too hot. 



BREAD. 23 

but if it browns gradually it is just right. An oven 
in which you cannot hold your hand longer than to 
count twenty moderately, is hot enough for bread. 
When loaves are done, (to test which, break apart, 
press the bread gently with the finger, if it is elastic it 
is done, if clammy, not done, and must be returned 
to the oven,) wrap in a coarse towel or bread cloth, 
and stand on the edge of the loaf until cool; if by 
accident or neglect the bread is baked too hard, rub 
the loaves over with butter, wet the towel in which 
they are wrapped, and cover with another dry towel. 
In the winter, bread dough may be kept sweet several 
days either by placing it where it will be cold without 
freezing, or by putting it down deep into the flour 
barrel, so that it may be entirely excluded from the 
air, (beef suet will also keep in this way.) When 
wanted for use make into bread, or by adding the 
proper ingredients, make into cake, rusks, biscuit, 
apple dumplings, chicken pie, etc. 

GRAHAM AND CORN BREAD. 

It is very desirable that every family should have a 
constant supply of bread made of unbolted flour, or 
rye and Indian corn. Most persons find it palatable, 
and it promotes health. For these coarse breads, 
always add a little brown sugar or molasses. Thus 
made, they rise quicker and in a less warm atmos- 
phere than without this sweetening. A little lard or 
butter always improves bread or cakes made of 
Indian meal, rendering them light and tender. Gra- 
ham bread bakes slower than wheat, and corn requires 



24 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

more time to bake than either. In cutting the latter 
while warm, hold the knife perpendicularly. Rye is 
said to absorb more moisture from the air than any 
other grain ; hence, all bread from this meal needs a 
longer application of heat, and keeps moister after 
being baked than that made from other grain. Corn 
bread requires a hot oven. 

BREAD SPONGE. 

S. A. M. 
Five pints of warm water, five quarts of sifted flour, 
one coffee-cup yeast ; mix in a two gallon stone jar, 
cover over tight and set in a large tin pan, so that if 
sponge rises over the top of jar the drippings may fall 
in the pan. Set to rise the evening before baking. 
In winter be careful to set in a warm place. 

BREAD. 

Sift six quarts flour in a pail; pour your sponge 
into your bread-pan or bowl, add two tablespoons 
salt, then the flour gradually, mix and knead well. 
This first kneading is the most important, and should 
occupy at least twenty minutes, (nearly all the flour 
will be used in mixing up and first kneading.) Make 
the bread in one large loaf and set away in a warm 
place to rise, cover with a cloth, and it ought to rise 
in half an hour; knead thoroughly again for ten min- 
utes, take enough dough for three good sized loaves, 
(a pint bowl of dough to each loaf) ; give five min- 
utes kneading to feach loaf, and place to rise in a drip- 
ping-pan well greased with lard. The loaves will be 
light in five or ten minutes, and will bake in a properly 



BREAD. 25 

■ 

heated oven in half an hour. Take the remaining 
dough, make a well in the centre into which put one- 
half teacup white sugar, one teacup lard, and two 
eggs, mix thoroughly with the dough, and knead into 
one large loaf; set in a warm place about fifteen 
minutes to rise. When light knead five minutes and 
let rise again, (this time it ought to be light in ten 
minutes.) Take out of bread-pan and knead on bread- 
board, and roll about an inch in thickness ; cut out 
with a biscuit cutter and place in dripping-pan ; let 
rise five minutes and bake twenty minutes. This 
makes ninety biscuits. 

BREAD. 
M. C. M. 

The evening before baking, bring to a boil as much 
buttermilk as will wet the bread you wish to make. 
Have ready a large spoonful of flour in a crock, to 
which add the buttermilk. Let it stand till suffi- 
ciently cool, then add half a cup of yeast, and flour to 
make a thick batter ; the better and longer you stir 
the sponge, the whiter will be your bread. In the 
morning sift your flour in bread pan, pour the sponge 
in the centre, stir in some of the flour, and let stand 
until after breakfa.st; then mix, kneading for about 
half an hour, the longer the better; when light, mould 
into loaves, this time kneading as little as possible. 
The secret of good bread is having good yeast, and 
not baking too hard. 

BREAD. 
Mrs. Clara Morey. 

Pare and boil four or filve potatoes, and mash fine, 



26 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

then add one pint of flour, pour on this boiling water 
enough to moisten well, then about one quart of cold 
water, after which add flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. When sufficiently cold or "scarcely milk 
warm," put in one-half pint (or more will do no harm) 
of yeast, and let it stand in a warm place over night •. 
in the morning add to this sponge one cup of lard, 
then stir in flour and knead well ; the more kneading 
the finer and whiter the bread will be; pounding also 
with a potato masher improves the bread greatly, and 
is rather easier than so much kneading. When quite 
stiff, well worked and pounded, let it rise again, and 
when light, make into loaves or biscuit, adding no 
more flour except to flour the hands and board — 
merely enough to prevent the bread from sticking. 
Let it rise again, then bake, and immediately after 
taking from the oven wrap in a wet towel until partly 
cold, in order to soften the crust. If yeast and flour 
are good {essentials in all cases) the above process 
will make good bread. 

BREAD, (IN SUMMER.) 

Mrs. D. Buxton. 

Take three pints cold or tepid water, four table- 
spoons yeast, one teaspoon salt ; stir in flour enough 
to make a thick sponge, (rather thicker than griddle 
cakes.) Let stand until morning, then add more flour, 
mix stiff, and knead ten minutes ; place in pan, let 
rise until light, knead for another ten minutes ; mould 
into four loaves, and set to rise, (don't let it get too 
light) ; bake in moderate oven one hour. If you mix 



BREAD. 27 

your bread at six o'clock in the morning, ought to be 
through baking at ten o'clock. 

BREAD, (IN WINTER.) 
Take one pint buttermilk (or clabbered milk) let it 
scald, (not boil) ; make a well in the centre of your 
flour into which turn the hot milk, add one teaspoon 
salt, and enough flour and water to make sufficient 
sponge ; let stand until morning, then prepare your 
bread as above. This is more convenient to make in 
winter, since you need a hot fire to heat the milk. 

COFFEE BREAD. 
S. A. M. 
When doing up your Saturday's baking, take some 
of your biscuit dough, roll it very thin, put in a baking 
pan, and let it rise until light ; then roll a few crackers 
fine, (bread crumbs or stale cookies are nice to roll up 
and mix with the cracker,) rub some butter and 
sugar together, mix with the cracker, and spread or 
sprinkle on top of the dough, — let it rise until light, 
then pour over the top about one-half teacup sweet 
milk or cream, and sprinkle cinnamon over the 
whole, — put in the oven at once, and bake about 
twenty minutes. Nice to have warm for your Satur- 
day's dinner. 

LIGHT YEAST BREAD. 

Take good sized potatoes, peel, boil and mash, pour 
on. to them one quart of boiling water, strain the 
whole through a sieve ; when this is milk-warm add 
one cup of yeast, one tablespoon of white sugar, one 
tablespoon of salt, and three quarts and a half of flour; 



28 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

beat well with a spoon and set in a warm place to rise, 
when well risen, take pint of flour, put part of it on 
kneading board, then turn the dough upon the board; 
add one tablespoon of lard ; knead twenty minutes 
using the pint of flour. Let this dough rise one hour, 
then form into loaves; do not have more than one 
pint of dough in a loaf; let the loaves rise forty min- 
utes, and bake forty-five minutes. Bread matle this 
way cannot be excelled. 

MILK YEAST BREAD. 

Mrs. W. A. James. 

Put into a pail holding two quarts and a half, one 
pint of new milk, one pint of boiling water, mix with 
this one tablespoon of sugar, one of salt, and three 
pints of flour; beat this well together, and cover tightly. ' 
Set this pail into another pail or kettle, with water 
enough to come nearly to the top of it ; to have the 
water of the right temperature, let half of it be boiling 
and half cold. ' Set it where it will keep about the 
same temperature until risen. You must be particular 
about this. Beat the batter as often as once in every 
half hour until the last hour, when it must not be dis- 
turbed : it will rise in about five hours. When it is 
risen enough the pail will be full ; put two quarts of 
flour into a pan, and make a well in the middle of it : 
dissolve a teaspoon of soda in a little hot water, and 
when the batter is risen just enough, turn it into the 
middle of the flour, and pour the dissolved soda in 
with it ; knead well and make into loaves. Set them 
where they will be warm and let them -rise forty-five 



BREAD. 29 

minutes ; bake in a quick oven. It will take nearly 
a pint of flour to knead the bread on the board. This 
bread makes the nicest dry toast and sandwiches. It 
is the most difficult to make of all kinds, but is 
the best of all. 

POOR MAN S BREAD. 

Mrs. D. B. 

One pint butter milk or sour milk, one level teaspoon 
soda, a pinch of salt, and flour enough to make as 
stiff as soda biscuit dough ; cut into three pieces ; 
handle as little as possible ; roll an inch thick ; place 
in your dripping pan, and bake twenty or thirty min- 
utes — when done, wrap in a bread cloth ; eat while 
warm, breaking open just as you would a biscuit; 
bake in a hot oven. Each cake will be about the 
size of a pie. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

Mrs. Col. Moore, Hamilton. 
Take two quarts new sweet milk, warm, add flour 
and mix into a batter ; set in warm water, (to get the 
right temperature take half boiling and half cold 
water,) in a warm place to rise ; keep an even heat, 
(pretty warm); when light the first time, (usually in 
about three or four hours), thicken by stirring in flour 
until you have a stiff" batter ; let rise again ; when 
light, take flour enough for six or s'even loaves, mix 
with warm milk, (sweet,) or water, add one good table- 
spoonful of salt, one each of lard and white sugar, and 
a little soda ; mould into loaves as rapidly as possible 
or it will become too cool ; bake well, keep in a pure 



30 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

atmosphere, and you have a good bread which never 
sours. 

YEAST BREAD. 
Mrs. W. A. J. 

Make a well in the middle of four quarts flour, into 
which turn one tablespoon sugar, one of salt, and one 
cup of yeast ; then mix with one pint of milk which 
has been warmed with one pint of boiling water ; add 
one tablespoon lard ; knead well and let it rise over 
night ; in the morning knead again, and make into 
loaves. Let them rise one hour, and bake fifty min- 
utes. Water can be used instead of the pint of milk, 
in which case, use twice as much lard. 

BUCKEYE BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. W. W. Woods. 

One cup each of corn, rye and Graham meal. The 
rye meal should be as fine as the Graham. Use a 
coffee cup for measuring. Heap the cup before sift- 
ing, then sift all together, (the three kinds), as closely 
as possible. Two cups Porto Rico molasses, two 
cups sweet milk, one cup sour milk, one dessfert spoon 
soda, one teaspoon salt ; beat all together thoroughly, 
pour into a tin form and place in a kettle of boiling 
water, and steam four hours. Boil as soon as mixed. 
It may appear to be too thin, but it is not, as this 
recipe has never been known to fail. Serve warm, 
with ySur Thanksgiving turkey. The bread should 
not quite fill the form, (or a tin pail with cover will 
answer,) as it must have room to swell. See that the 
water does not boil up to the top of the form ; also 



BREAD. 31 

take care it does not boil entirely away or stop boil- 
ing. To serve it, remove the lid and set it a few 
moments into the open oven, so as to dry the top of 
the loaf; then it will turn out in perfect shape. This 
bread can be used as a pudding, and served with a 
sauce made of thick sour cream, well sweetened and 
seasoned with nutmeg ; or, it is good toasted the next 
day. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. W. A. James. 

One pint of rye or Graham meal ; one pint of Indian 
meal ; one cup of molasses ; three-fourths cup of sour 
milk; one-half teaspoon soda; one and one-half 
pints of cold water. Steam this four hours and then 
brown it over in the oven. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. F. W. 

One quart warm water, teacup of yeast ; stir in 
Graham flour to make sponge ; when risen, add a tea 
cup of molasses, with one-half teaspoon soda. Make 
as stiff as soft gingerbread, and put right in the pans. 

BROWn BREAD. 

Mrs. D. Bassett, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Two and one-half cups sour milk and one-half cup 
molasses ; into these put one heaping teaspoon soda, 
two cups corn meal, one cup. Graham flour and one 
teaspoon salt. Use coffee cups. Steam three hours, 
— better steamed longer. 



32 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

EASTERN BROWN BREAD. 
Mrs. C. F. 
One quart of rye meal, two quarts of Indian meal ; 
scald the Indian meal ; one-half teacup molasses, two 
teaspoons salt, one teaspoon soda, one teacup of yeast'; 
make it as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon, 
mixing with warm water ; let it ris;s all night ; then put 
it all in a large pan and smooth the top with the hand 
dipped in cold water ; let it stand a short time ; bake 
five or six hours ; if put in the oven late in the day 
let it remain in all night. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. Clara Woods Morey. 

Take one and a half pints of tepid water, add one 
heaping teaspoon of salt and one half cup of sugar ; stir 
in one half pint or more of the ^sponge made of white 
flour, as in my rule for white bread ; then add Graham 
flour until almost too stiff to stir; put it in the baking 
pan ; let it rise well, which will take about two hours ; 
then bake in a moderate oven ; when done, wrap in a 
wet towel until cool. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. H. B. Sherman, Plankinton House, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Take a little over a quart of warm water, one-half 
cup brown sugar or molasses, one-fourth cup hop 
yeast, and one and a half teaspoons salt. Thicken the 
water with unbolted flour to a thin batter ; then add 
sugar, salt and yeast ; then stir in more flour until 
quite stiff. In the morning add a small teaspoon soda, 
and flour enough to make the batter stiff as can be 



BREAD. 33 

Stirred with a spoon ; put it into pans ; let it rise again ; 
then bake in even oven, not too hot at first; keep 
warm while rising ; smooth over the loaves with a 
spoon or knife dipped in water. 

GRAMAM BREAD. 

Mrs. J. H. S. 

Make the sponge up in the evening as late as you 
can conveniently, in the following proportions : three 
pints Graham flour, one cup molasses, one quart warm 
water ; pour the molasses on the flour, rinse the cup 
with the water, and pour it in gradually, beating well ; 
then add a small cup good yeast — well stirred in, and 
in Winter set in warm place to rise; in Summer this 
does not matter. In the morning add a dessertspoon 
of salt, and stir in Graham flour until the spoon will 
stand alone ; pour in pans and set to rise in a warm 
place, but do not get it too light, as brown bread does 
not require to rise as long as white. Have fire enough 
when put in the oven to complete the baking ; a 
fresh blaze will burn the crust while a steady fire will 
sweeten it. 

STEAMED CORN OR GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. Jennie Guthrie Cherry, Newark. 

Two cups corn meal, two cups Graham flour, two 
cups sour milk, two-thirds cup molasses, one teaspoon 
soda ; steam two hours and a half 

BOSTON CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Canby, Bellefontaine. 

One cup sweet milk, two cups sour milk, two-thirds 



34 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

cup of molasses, one cup flour, four cups corn meal, 
two teaspoons soda; steam three hours, then brown a 
few minutes in the oven. 

MRS. B.'S CORN BREAD. 

One quart sour milk, three eggs, two tablespoons 
lard or butter (or half and half), one tablespoon 
sugar, a pinch of sait, handful of wheat flour, and 
enough corn meal, (sifted,) to make a good batter, (not 
too stiff— not nearly so stiff as for Graham gems' ;) 
then add one level teaspoon soda, stir thoroughly, and 
bake in long dripping pan. 

CORN CAKE. 

M. E. Wilcox, Madison. 

Three cups buttermilk, one-half cup cream, two- 
thirds cup sugar, two eggs, one-half cup flour, one- 
half teaspoon salt, three and a half teaspoons soda, 
corn meal enough to make a batter as thick as ordinary 
cake. Bake in round tins or gem-irons. Corn meal 
requires a hotter oven than flour. 

CORN CAKE. 

Mrs. H. B. Sherman. 

One pint corn meal sifted, one pint flour, one pint 
sour milk, two eggs beaten light, one-half cup sugar, 
piece of butter size of an egg ; add, the last thing, one 
teaspoon soda in a little milk; add to the beaten 
egg the milk and meal alternately, then the butter and 
sugar. If sweet milk is used, add one teaspoon cream- 
tartar ; bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 



BREAD. 35 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. J. H. S. 

Take one qttart buttermilk, and one pint corn meal, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon 
sugar and three eggs ; have the stove very hot, and 
don't bake in too deep a pan. We use the dripping 
pan ; and we think, of all the corn bread we ever tasted, 
this is the best. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



To make biscuits take a part of the dough left 
from bread making, when it is ready to mould into 
loaves, work in the lard, and any other ingredi- 
ents desired, such as butter, eggs, sugar, spice, etc., 
also using a little more^flour; let rise once, then mix 
down and let rise again ; turn out on the bread board ; 
knead a few minutes, roll, and cut out with a biscuit 
cutter or mould with the hand. Place in a well- 
greased dripping-pan, and when light, bake in a quick 
oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. To make them 
a nice color, wet them over the top with warm water 
just before placing in the oven. To glaze them, brush 
lightly with milk and sugar, or the well beaten yolk 
of an egg sweetened, with a little milk added. 

Biscuits may be baked in eight minutes by making 
the oven as hot as can be without burning them and 
allowing it to cool off before they are taken out ; this 
makes them very light — but one has to watch them 
to keep them from being scorched. Any kind of 



36 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

bread or pastry mixed with water requires a hotter 
fire than if mixed with milk. 

If you wish biscuit for tea at six, begin to mould 
. two hours before, which will give ample time for 
rising and baking. If you want American House rolls 
for breakfast at eight, you must be up at five to get 
them ready. Many persons think it unnecessary to 
knead down either bread or biscuit, as often as we havd 
directed, but if attention is given to the dough at the 
right time, and it is not suffered to become too light, 
it will be much nicer, whiter and of a finer texture if 
these directions are followed. 

Soda biscuit must be handled as little and made as 
rapidly as possible ; mix soda and cream tartar or 
baking powder in the flour, so that the effervescence 
takes place in the mixture ; one teaspoon soda and 
two of cream tartar, or three teaspoons baking powder, 
to every three pints of flour, is about the right pro- 
portion ; bake in a quick oven as soon as made. Gems 
of all kinds require a hot oven, but the fire should be 
built sometime before they are put into the oven and 
allowed to go down by the time they are light, as the 
heat necessary to raise them will burn them in baking 
if kept up. 

Soda and raised biscuit, bread or cake when stale 
can be made almost as nice as when fresh by 
plunging for an instant into cold water, then placing 
in a pan in the oven ten or fifteen minutes ; but thus 
treated they should be used immediately. 

Waffle irons should be heated, then buttered or 
greased with lard, and one side filled with batter, 



BRE.iD. 37 

then closed and laid on the fire or placed on the 
stove, and after a few minutes turned on the other 
side ; they take about twice as long to bake as 
griddle cakes. Muffins are baked in muffin rings. In 
eating them, do not cut but break them open. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Miss M. E. W. 

When yeast bread is ready to knead from the sponge, 

knead and roll out three-fourths of an inch thick, put 

thitt slices of butter on the top, sprinkle with cinnamon, 

then with sugar; let rise well and bake. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Two cups sweet milk ; four even cups of flour ; two 
eggs ; half cup sugar ; two teaspoons melted butter ; 
three teaspoons cream tartar and two teaspoons soda. 

BUNS. 

Mrs. James. 

Break one egg into a cup and fill with sweet milk ; 
half cup yeast, half cup butter, one cup sugar, enough 
flour to make a soft dough ; flavor with nutmeg. 
Let it rise till it is very light, then mould into biscuit 
with a few currants. Let them rise a second time in 
the pan ; bake, and when nearly done, glaze with a 
little molasses and milk. Use the same cup for each 
measure. The size is immaterial. 

NORTH CAROLINA BUNS. 

Mrs. Hattie Clemmens, Ashville, N. C. 

One cup butter, four cups flour, one cup sour milk, 
three cups sugar, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the 



38 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

milk, four eggs, one tablespoon wine or brandy, raisins, 
citron and nutmeg to your taste ; bake in long tin pans 
and cut in slices. 

BUTTERED TOAST. 

Although this toast is so commonly used, few know 
how to prepare, it nicely. Beat one cup of butter, and 
three tablespoons flour to a cream, pour over this one 
and a half pints boiling water; place over a kettle of 
boiling water, for ten minutes ; cut bread in thin slices, 
toast brown, and dip into the butter, etc. Serve hot. 

Or, dip each slice of' toast in boiling hot water, 
(slightly salted,) spread with butter, cover and keep 
hot. 

BREAKFAST TOAST. 
Mrs. Dr. M. 

Add to one-half pint of sweet milk, two tablespoons 
of sugar, a little salt and a well-beaten egg ; dip in 
this slices of bread, (if dry, let it soak a minute,) and 
fry on a buttered griddle until it is a light brown on 
each side. This is a good way to use dry bread. 

MENNONITE TOAST. 

Mrs. J. P. R. 

Three eggs well beaten and stirred in half pint of 
milk with a little salt ; dip into it thin slices of stale 
bread, and fry in hot lard like doughnuts. 

MILK TOAST. 

MoUie E. Fisher. 

Cut some bread in thin slices, and toast nicely on 
each side ; take one quart of sweet milk, and a half 



BREAD. 39 

teaspoon of salt; place in a vessel and let it come 
to a boil ; then add a large tablespoon of flour 
dissolved in some milk, and one tablespoon butter ; 
dip the toast in this until it is saturated ; place in a 
dish, and pour over it the remaining gravy. 

MRS. GOULD'S DROP CAKES. 

Two eggs, three teacups of milk, three and a half 
teacups flour, one tablespoon melted butter, two table- 
spoons maple sugar, little salt ; mix all together ex- 
cept the last cup of milk, which add last of all. Do 
not beat the eggs separately. 

LUCY'S POP OVERS. 

W. A. J. 

Two teacups sweet milk, two teacups flour heaped 
a little, butter size of a walnut, two eggs, one table- 
spoon sugar, a little salt. 

POCKET BOOKS. 
Mrs. J. H. S. 
Warm one quart of new milk, to which add one 
cup butter or lard, four tablespoons of sugar, and two 
well-beaten eggs ; stir in flour enough to make a 
moderately stiff sponge, and set in a warm place to 
rise, which will take three or four hours; then mix in 
flour enough to make a soft dough and let rise again. 
When well risen, dissolve a lump of soda, size of a 
bean, in a spoon of milk, work in the dough and 
roll into sheets one-half inch in thickness; spread 
with thin layer of butter, cut into squares, and fold 
over, pocket book shape ; put on tins or in pans to 



40 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

rise once more, which will only take a little while, till 
they are fit for the oven. In the summer the sponge 
can be made up in the morning, and rise in time to 
make for tea. In cool weather it is best to set over 
night. 

RQSK. 

One pint milk, three eggs, one cup butter, one cup 
sugar, and one coffee cup potato yeast ; thicken with 
flour, and sponge over night; in the morning stir 
down, let rise, and stir down again ; when it rises 
again make into a loaf, and let rise again ; then roll out 
like soda biscuit, cut and put in pans, and when light, 
bake carefully. 

SOUTH CAROLINA BISCUIT. 

Mrs. Col. Moore, Hamilton. 

One quart sweet cream or milk, one and a half cups 
butter or fresh lard, two tablespoons white sugar, one 
good teaspoon salt ; add flour sufficient to make a stifi 
dough, knead well and mould into neat, small biscuit 
with the hands, as our grandmothers used to do ; add 
one good teaspoon cream tartar if preferred; bake 
well and you have good sweet biscuit that will keep 
for weeks in a dry place, and are very nice for travel- 
ing lunch. They are such as we used to send to the 
army, and the " boys " relished them " hugely.'' 

SODA BISCUIT. 

Mrs. J. P. R. 

Two quarts of flour, four teaspoons cream tartar, 
two teaspoons soda, one pint of sweet milk, one-half 
teacup lard. 



BREAD. 41 

StJPERIOR BISCUIT. 

Mrs. B. T. Skinner. 

Three and a half cups sweet milk, one cup butter 
and lard mixed ; add yeast and flour and let rise over 
night. In the morning add one beaten egg, knead 
thoroughly and let rise again , then form into biscuit ; 
when light, bake delicately. 

SPOON BISCUIT. 

Mrs. A. B. M. 

Take one quart sour milk or buttermilk, one tea- 
spoon soda, a little salt, two tablespoons melted lard, 
and flour enough for a stiff batter ; drop in a hot gem 
pan and bake in a quick oven. 

SALLY LUNN, 

Mrs. Wm. Lee. 

One pint milk, one cup yeast, one tablespoon each 

of butter and sugar, three eggs, and flour enough to 

make a stiff batter ; put by the stove to rise, and when 

light bake. 

SALLY LUNN, OR SWEET GEM. 
Mrs. E. M. Skinner, Battle Creek, Mich. 
One-half cup sugar, three tablespoons melted but- 
ter, one egg, one pint flour, one cup sweet milk, 
three teaspoons baking powder ; bake in a quick 

oven. 

SALLY LUNN. 
Mrs. H. B. S. 
One quart flour, two eggs, one pint sweet milk, two 
tablespoons sugar ; piece of butter size of two eggs. 



42 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

(large size,) one-half teaspoon salt, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one teaspoon soda; beat butter and 
sugar together; add eggs well beaten. Mix soda 
with milk, and cream tartar with flour. 

AMERICAN HOUSE ROLLS. 
Mrs. V. G. H. 
Rub one half tablespoon of butter, and one-half 
tablespoon lard into two quarts sifted flour; into a 
well in the middle pour one pint of cold boiled milk ; 
one-half cup yeast, one-half cMp sugar, and a little 
salt. If you wish them for tea, the night before 
you must rub the flour and butter, boil the milk and 
cool it ; then add sugar, yeast and salt, and turn it 
into your flour, but do not stir it. Let this stand over 
night ; in the morning stir it up, knead it and let it 
rise till near tea time; mould and let it rise again; 
bake quickly. To mould them, cut with cake-cutter ; 
put a little melted butter on one-half and lap it on the 
other half, nearly over. Place them in the pan about 
three-quarters of an inch apart. 

CREAM OF TARTAR ROLLS. 

Mrs. W. A. J. 

Take one pint of flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one half teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt, one 
teaspoon sugar, mix all these and run them through 
the sieve ; wet with half pint of milk ; heat and, grease 
the French roll pan ; bake fifteen minutes. 

COMMON .ROLLS, 
J. S. H. 
A convenient way to make rolls is to take a piece 



BREAD. i'd 

of your bread dough on baking day, when you mould it 
out the last time — about enough for a small loaf; 
spread it out a little, and add to it one egg, two table- 
spoons sugar, and three-fourths cup lard ; you will 
have to add a little flour and a small teaspoon soda if 
it is the least bit sour ; mix well, let rise, and mould 
into rolls or biscuit. Set to rise again, and they will 
be ready for the oven in twenty or thirty minutes. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Mrs. J. W. R. 

Peel six common sized, mealy potatoes, boil in two 
quarts of water, press and drain both potatoes and 
water through a colander; when cool enough, so as 
not to scald, add flour to make a thick batter, beat 
well, and when luke warm, add one-half cup potato 
yeast. Make this sponge early in the morning, and 
when light turn into a bread pan, add a teaspoon salt, 
half cup lard, and flour enough for a soft dough ; mix 
up, and set in a warm, even temperature ; when risen 
knead down and place again to rise, repeating this 
process five or six times; cut in small pieces and 
mould on the bread board in rolls about one inch 
thick by five long; roll in melted butter or sweet lard, 
and place in well-greased baking pans, (nine inches 
long by five wide and two and a half in depth make 
a convenient sized pan, into which you can put fifteen 
of these rolls, or if twice the width, put in two rows); 
press your rolls closely together, so that they will only 
be about half an inch in width. Let rise a short time 
and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven; if the top 



44 THE BrOKEYE COOK BOOK. 

browns too rapidly, cover with paper. These rolls, if 
properly made, are very white, light and tender. 

Or make your rolls larger, and just before putting 
them in the oven, cut deeply across each one with a 
sharp knife. This will make the cleft roll, so fahious 
among French cooks. 

NICE ROLLS. 

Mrs. Wm. Brown, Massillon, 

To one quart of bread sponge take two eggs, one 
cup of sugar, and one cup shortening ; mix with flour 
enough to make a soft dough, let rise well and make 
into rolls or biscuit; put in a pan and set to rise again ; 
when ready for the oven, take the yolk of an egg, 
beat and add one tablespoon sugar, and a teaspoon of 
sweet milk ; brush the cakes over with this and bake. 

PHILADELPHIA ROLLS. 

, Mrs. A. S. Chapman. 

One and a half quarts of flour, one egg, and yeast 
enough to raise ; when risen make into a loaf; let it 
stand till light, then roll out thin, spread with butter, 
then fold and cut out ; when very light, bake. 

ROLLS. 

Mrs. Judge West, Bellefontaine. 

Rub one-half tablespoon lard into one quart of 
flour; make a well in the middle, put in one-half cup 
of baker's yeast — or one cup of home-made— two tea- 
-spoons sugar, one-half pint cold boiled milk ; do not- 
stir it, and let it stand over night; in the morning 
knead well ; after dinner knead again, cut out, put 



BREAD. 45 

in pans and let rise until tea time ; bake in a quick 
oven. 

WEDDING SANDWICH ROLLS. 

Mrs. James W. Robinson. 

Late in the evening make a rather stiff potato 
sponge, (see directions under " Bread Making,") and 
in the morning mix in as much flour as will make a 
soft dough, knead well, and place to rise ; when suffi- 
ciently light, knead 'down again, repeating the opera- 
tion two or three times, remembering not to let the 
dough become sour by rising too light ; mould into 
common sized loaves, place in your dripping pan to 
rise and bake very carefully, so as to secure the very 
lightest brown crust possible ; on taking out of oven 
roll in a cloth tightly wrung out of water, with a large 
bread blanket folded and wrapped around all. Let 
cool three or four hours, cut lengthwise of the loaC 
(not using the outside piece), first spreading lightly 
with good sweet butter, then cutting in slices not 
more than a quarter of an inch, or just as thin as 
possible, using for this purpose a very thin, sharp 
knife ; lay on cold boiled ham cut in very thin shav- 
ings, (no matter if in small pieces ;) roll up Very slow- 
ly and carefully and place where it will not unroll. 
Treat each sandwich in the same manner, always 
spreading the bread with butter before cutting. If 
by chance, the bread is baked with too hard a crust, 
cut off a thin shaving of the brownest part very 
smoothly before making into sandwiches. These 
sandwiches are truly delicious if properly made, but 



46 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

they require great care, experience and good judg- 
ment. Served on an oblong platter, piled in pyramid 
style, row upon row, they will resemble nicely rolled 
dinner napkins. They must be made and served the 
same day. 

CRUMPETS. 
Miss Mary Gallagher. 
One quart of milk with two tablespoons yeast, and ■ 
flour enough to make a stiff batter ; let rise over 
night, and in the morning add four eggs, two table- 
spoons sugar, one-half cup butter ; put them in muffin 
rings and let them rise nearly half an hour ; ,bake 
quickly. 

MUFFINS. 
Mrs. J. S. R. 
One pint bread sponge, one pint sweet milk, two 
eggs, one-half cup butter, a pinch of salt ; let rise 
three hours and bake in muffin rings. 

QUICK WAFFLES. 
C. W. M. 
Two pints sweet milk, one cup butter melted, sifted 
flour to make a soft batter, add the well beaten yolks 
of six eggs, then the beaten whites, and lastly (just 
before baking) four teaspoons baking powder, beat- 
ing very hard and fast for a few minutes. These are 
very good with four or five eggs," but much better 
with more. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. O. M. S. 

Four eggs, one quart milk, one-fourth pound but- 



BREAD. 47 

ter, a little salt, flour to make a batter — not very 
thick, beating the eggs separately; heat and butter 
the irons well and bake very quickly. If for tea, grate 
on a little sugar and nutmeg ; if for breakfast, only 
butter. 

WAFFLES. 
Mrs. S. C. Lee, Baltimore, Maryland. 

Boil half a pint of rice and let it get cold ; mix 
with it one-fourth pound butter and a little salt. Sift 
in it one and a half pints flour ; beat five eggs sepa- 
rately ; stir the yolks in together with one quart milk ; 
add whites beaten to a stiff froth ; beat hard and bake 
at once in waffle iron. 

EGG CRACKERS. 
Mrs. J. S. R. 
Six eggs, twelve tablespoons sweet milli six 
tablespoons butter, and one-half teaspoon soda; 
mould with flour half an hour and roll thin. 

BUCKWHEAT SHORT CAKE. 

Mrs. V. W. 

Take two or three cups sour milk and enough soda 
to sweeten ; stir in buckwheat flour enough to make 
quite a stiff batter and bake ; no shortenmg. This 
takes the place of griddle cakes, and is very nice to 
eat with meat, butter, honey or molasses. 

CENTENNIAL BISCUIT. 

Make good corn mush, just as if you were going to 
eat it with milk. When it is lukewarm take a quart of 
it, work in flour enough to make a stiff dough ; make 



48 THE BirCKEYB COOK BOOK. 

into biscuits, put in your bake pan and set in a warm 
place over night ; bake in a very hot oven, and you 
have the best and sweetest biscuits you ^ver ate. .Eat 
while hot, for breakfast 

CORN ROLLS. 
Mrs. Capt. Rea, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Eight heaping tablespoons of corn meal, two 
tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon salt, one quart boil- 
ing milk ; stir all together and let stand till cool. 
Add six eggs well beaten, and bake in gem-pans or 
well buttered cups. 

CUSHMAN CAKE. 

Mrs. W. A. J. 

Two cups flour, one cup Indian meal, four table- 
spoons sugar, two teaspoons cream tartar ; mix and 
add Wie egg, two teacups sweet milk, one tablespoon 
melted butter, one teaspoon soda ; then bake. 

CORN MUSH, 

Mrs. W. A. J. 

Put fresh water in a kettle to boil, salt to siiit the 
taste ; when it begins to boil stir in the meal, let- 
ting it sift through the fingers slowly to prevent 
lumps ; at the last it may be added a little faster ; 
keep adding until it is as thick as can be conven- 
iently stirred with one hand ; set it in the oven, in the 
kettle, let it bake an hour, and it will be thoroughly 
cooked. It takes corn meal so long .to cook thoroughly 
that it is very tedious to boil until done without let- 
ting it burn. If you wish to fry it cold for a delicious 



BREAD. 49 

breakfast relish, add while making it about a pint of 
flour to three quarts of mush. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Mrs. W. A. J. 

Two-thirds teaspoon sod?, three tablespoons sugar, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, one egg, one cup sweet 
milk, six tablespoons Indiari meal, three tablespoons 
flour and a little salt. Excellent. 

RHODE IS ND "SPAT OUTS." 

One Hundred Years Old. 

One pint sw^et milk, four tablespoons wheat flour, 
two eggs well beaten, Indian meal to make a stiff 
batter, and a little salt ; spat into round cakes half an 
inch thick, fry i^ I lard like doughnuts, and split and 
eat warm with butter. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

One cup white flour,'three of Graham, three of sweet 
milk, two tablespoons lard, one of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, two teaspoons cream tartar and one of soda; mix 
and bake like white flour biscuit. 

MRS. BUXTON'S GRAHAM GEMS. 
Take one egg and beat well, add pinch of salt, one 
quart butter or sour milk, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter ; add o e ' :.p'^on soda and stir 
thoroughly with a spoon ; hc^t and grease gem-irons, 
and after dipping the spoon in cold water, drop a 
spoonful of batter in each pan, repeating until all are 
filled; bake in a quick oven half an hour. This 
measure will make a dozen. 



50 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. R. L. Partridge. 

Beat one egg well, add pint of new milk, a little 
salt, and Graham flour until it will drop off the spoon 
nicely ; heat and butter the gem-pans before dropping 
in the dough ; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
GOOD GRAHAM GEMS. 

J. H. S. 

Three cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one of 
salt, one tablespoon brown sugar, one of melted lard, 
one beaten egg ; to the egg add the milk, then the 
sugar and salt, then the Graham flour, (with the soda 
mixed in,) together with the lard ; make a stiff batter, 
so that it will drop, not pour, from the spoon. Have 
gem pans very hot, grease, fill, and bake fifteen min- 
utes in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 
,E, M. S. 

One cup sour milk, one-half cup sugar, one egg, 
one teaspoon soda, three tablespoons melted butter, 
and Graham flour to thicken ; have the irons well 
greased and hot when mixture is put in, and bake with 
quick oven. 

GEMS WITHOUT SOUR MILK. 

Aunt Betsy. 

Mix with Graham flour enough sweet milk to make 
a rather thin batter, add a little salt and beat well ; 
have gem pans hot, fill, and bake in a very hot oven 
until they are a light even brown. Batter^ should be 
thin enough to pour into the pans. 



BREAD. 51 

MUFFINS OR GEMS. 

Mrs. O. M. S. 

With very cold or ice water and Graham flour, make 
a rather stiff batter ; heat and grease the irons, and 
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

RYE OR GRAHAM DROP CAKES. 

W. A. J. 

Two cups rye or Graham meal, one and one-half 
teacups flour, two eggs, one half cup sugar, one full 
teaspoon soda, sour milk enough to make a thick 
batter. 

BISCUIT FOR DYSPEPTICS. 

Ola W. 

One quart Graham flour, one pint corn meal, three 
tablespoons butter, half cup molasses, sour milk to 
wet it up, and soda ; roll out, bake, and when cold it 
is excellent for dyspeptics. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

Make the same a,s corn mush, except that it will 
cook sufficiently without baking ; it is just as good for 
frying as corn mush. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs. H. B. S. 

Two cups sour milk, two tablespoons brown sugar, 
a little salt, one teaspoon soda, sufficient Graham flour 
to make moderately stiff. If not convenient to use 
sour milk, use sweet, adding cream tartar • 



52 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

FRITTERS. 



Make fritters quickly and beat thoroughly. Have 
the lard in which you cook them nice and sweet and 
boiling hot ; test the heat by dropping in a teaspoon 
of the batter, — if the temperature is right it will 
quickly rise in a light ball with a splutter, and soon 
brown ; take up carefully the moment they are done, 
with a wire spoon. Drain in a hot colander and sift 
powdered sugar over them ; serve hot. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Three large sour apples sliced thin, one pint sour 
milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one tablespoon sugar, 
pinch of salt, flour to stiffen ; fry and serve hot with 
brandy sauce or molasses. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Mrs. H. B. S. 

T^e raw clams chopped fine and make a batter 
with juice and an equal quantity of sweet milk, with 
four eggs to each pint of liquid, and flour sufiicient to 
stiffen ; fry like other fritters. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

To one quart grated corn add three eggs and three 
or four grated crackers ; beat well and season with 
pepper and salt ; have ready in skillet butter and lard 
or beef drippings in equal proportions, hot but not 
scorching ; drop in little cakes about the size of an 
oyster, and foi this purpose use a teaspoon; when 
brown, turn and fry on the other side, watching con- 



BREAD. 53 

stantly for fear of burning. If the fat is just the right 
heat, the oysters will be light and delicious, but if not, 
heavy and "soggy." Serve hot and keep dish well 
covered. It is better to beat whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth and add just before frying. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Mrs. H. B. S. 
Mix well together one quart of grated sweet corn, 
two teacups sweet milk, one teacup flour, one teaspoon 
butter, two eggs well beaten ; season with pepper and 
salt and fry in butter like pan cakes. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

Mrs. M. K. Pasco. 

One and a half pints flour, one pint milk, six well 
beaten eggs, one-half nutmeg, two teaspoons salt, one 
pint cream; stir the whole enough to mix the cream; 
fry in small cakes. 

CUCUMBER FRITTERS. 

Mrs. A. H. T. 

Peel four large cucumbers, cut and cook in a sauce 
pan with just a little water; mash and season well with 
salt and pepper; add two beaten eggs and flour to' 
make a thick batter; put a table spoon of lard in a 
skillet, make hot and fry in little cakes. 

FRITTERS. 
Mrs. J. S. R. 
Make like batter cakes, only stiffer, and fry in skillet 
one-fourth full of lard; serve hot with molasses and 
butter. 



54 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

SNOW FRITTERS. 

Mrs. H. A. Stimson. 
Stir together milk, flour and a little salt and make 
a rather thick batter; add new fallen snow in the 
proportion of a teacup to a pint of milk ; have the 
fat hot when you stir in the snow, and drop the batter 
into it with a spoon ; or bake as pan-cakes on a hot 
griddle. 

VANITIES. 

Mrs. D. C, Harrington, Westfield, 'N. Y. 

Beat two eggs, stir in a pinch of salt and half a 
teaspoon of rose water; add sifted flour till just thick 
enough, to roll out; cut out with a cake cutter and 
fry quickly in hot lard. Sift powdered sugar on them 
while hot, and when cool put a teaspoon of jelly in 
the centre of each one, and they will be nice for tea 
or dessert. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



Griddle cakes should be well beaten, when first 
made, and they are much lighter if the eggs are 
separated, whipping the yolks to a thick cream, and 
adding the whites beaten to a stiff froth just before 
baking. Some persons never stir buckwheat cakes 
after they have risen, but take them out carefully with 
a large spoon, placing the spoon when emptied, in a 
saucer, and not back again into the batter. In baking 
griddle cakes have the griddle clean, and instead of 
greasing it, tie some salt in a rag and rub the griddle 
with it. If the griddle is not allowed to burn, the 



BREAD. 55 

cakes will not stick, and there will be no smoke or 
unpleasant odor in the room ; or better still, provide a 
soapstone griddle which needs no greasing. Griddle 
cakes may be made with new fallen snow, in the pro- 
portion of a teacup of snow to a pint of milk. Fresh 
fallen snow contains a large proportion of ammonia 
which renders the cakes light, but which soon evapo- 
rates, rendering old snow useless for this purpose. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

A pint warm water, half cup good yeast, one tea- 
spoon salt, two tablespoons molasses, buckwheat flour 
enough to make a thin batter; set in a warm place 
and let rise over night ; if you have them every 
morning, save a little of the batter to start with instead 
of yeast. They will be nicer in a week than when 
first started. Never add more flour in the morning. 
If the batter is sour, add a teaspoon soda, stir in and 
fry at once. 

BREAD CAKES. 

Take stale bread and soak over night in sour milk ; 
in the morning rub through a colander, and to one 
quart, add two eggs, one teaspoon salt, two table- 
spoons sugar, and flour enough to make a batter a 
little thicker than for buckwheat cakes. These cakes 
are nice and not unwholesome. 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. E. B. W. 

To each pint buttermilk add one even teaspoon soda 
and one of salt: stir in sifted wheat flour until the 



56 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

batter will not pour off the spoon when lifted ; fry on 
griddle like buckwheat cakes. 

BATTER CAKES. 

Mrs. J. S. R. 

One quart buttermilk, one teaspoon soda, three 
eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, and flour to thicken; 
bake on griddle. 

CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. W. E. Scobey, Kankakee, 111. 

The night before using put some bread crumbs to 
soak in one quart of sour milk ; in the morning rub 
through a sieve and add four well beaten eggs, two 
teaspoons soda dissolved in a little water, one table- 
spoon melted butter, and enough corn meal to make 
them the consistency of ordinary griddle cakes. It 
is better to beat yolks and whites separately, stirring 
the whites lightly in just before baking. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 
A. J. 

Make hot a pint of sweet milk in which put two 
ounces of butter, let melt, then add a pint of cold 
milk, the well beaten yolks of four eggs — placing the 
whites in a cold place — a teaspoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of potato yeast, and sufficient flour to make 
a stiff" batter ; set in a warm place to rise, let stand 
three hours or over night; before baking add the 
the beaten whites; fry as any other griddle cakes. 
Be sure to make your batter just stiff" enough, for you 



BREAD. 57 

must not add flour in the morning unless you can let 
it rise again. 

INDIAN PANCAKES; 

W. C. A. 

' One pint Indian meal, one teaspoon salt, small tea- 
spoon soda ; pour on boiling water until a little thin- 
ner than mush ; let stand until cool, add the yolks of 
four eggs, half a cup of flour in which is mixed two 
teaspoons cream tartar ; stir in as much sweet milk or 
water as will make the batter suitable to bake ; beat 
the whites well and add just before baking. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Walter Mitchell, Gallipolis. 

Boil half a cup of rice ; when cold, take one quart 
milk, the yolks of four eggs, and flour sufficient to 
make a stiff batter ; beat the whites to a froth, stir in 
one teaspoon soda, and two cream tartar ; add a little 
salt, and lastly the whites of the eggs ; bake on a 
griddle. 

SOFT SHORT CAKE. 

Harriet O. Backus, West Killingly, Conn. 

One cup sour creacn, one teaspoon saleratus ; stir 
in flour enough to make a batter a little stiffer than 
for griddle cakes ; bake on a griddle. Split open 
each cake, putting on milk and butter, and place 
them in layers. 

TOMATO BATTER CAKES. 

Mrs. G. W.'Collins, Urbana. 

Make an egg batter as for batter cakes ; take and 



58 THE BUCKKYE COOK BOOK. 

slice large, solid ripe tomatoes, cover with batter and 
fry on a griddle like any griddle cakes; season with 
pepper and salt while frying. Tomatoes so prepared 
make a nice breakfast dish. 



YEAST. 



There are various ways of making, but the three 
best kinds are dry, soft hop, and potato yeast. The 
dry should be made in May or June for summer use, 
and in October for winter use. In hot ^nd damp 
weather, dry yeast sometimes loses its vitality ; how- 
everi many use it on account of its convenience, since 
there is no danger of its souring in summer or freezing 
in winter. Soft hop or potato yeast will keep in a 
cool place one or two weeks in warm weather, and in 
cold weather five or six weeks, care being taken that 
it does not freeze. Never add soda to yeast ; if it 
becomes sour it will do to start fresh yeast, but will 
never make good bread. Potato yeast is made either 
by boiling and mashing the potatoes, or by grating 
them while raw, and adding them to the boiling hop 
water immediately, for if allowed to stand they darken, 
and the yeast will not be as white. A stone jar with 
a close-fitting cover is best to keep yeast in, and should 
be scalded as often as emptied. In taking out for use, 
stir up well from the bottom. 

DRY YEAST. 

Mrs. E. T. C. 

Boil two large potatoes and a handful of hops, (the 



BREAD. 59 

latter in a bag), in three pints water ; when done, take 
out the potatoes, mash well, add one pint flour, and 
pour the boiling hop water over all ; beat well to- 
gether, adding one tablespoon salt, one of ginger, and 
one half cup sugar ; when luke warm add one cup 
good yeast and let stand two days, (or only one day, 
if very warm weather), stirring down frequently ; add 
good white corn meal until thick enough to make into 
cakes about a half inch in thickness ; place to dry in 
the shade where the air will pass freely so as to dry 
them as soon as possible ; turn the cakes frequently, 
breaking them up somewhat so they will dry out 
evenly ; when thoroughly dried put in a paper sack, 
and keep in a dry place. A small cup will make 
sponge sufficient to bake five or six ordinary sized 
loaves. 

HOP YEAST. 
Mrs. J. S. R. 
Two tablespoons hops boiled in half pint water ; 
boil to half the quantity, strain and pour over ' three 
tablespoons flour, stirring until- there are no lu<nps ; 
add three tablespoons sugar and one of salt ; put in 
a quart bottle and fill up with cold water. Use one 
teacup for common baking. 

HOP YEAST. 

Mrs. M. C. Moore, Granville. 

Take eight to ten large pared potatoes, and a pint 
good hops in a bag ; put these in two quarts of water, 
boil till potatoes are done; then mash and strain 
through a colander, add one teacup sugar and half 



60 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK.' 

cup salt ; when cool enough add a teacup good yeast, 
stir frequently, till it is risen enough to bottle. Keep 
in a dry, cool place. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Mrs. W. A. J. 
Pare and boil six good sized potatoes ; when done 
mash and pbur on them three pints of boiling water ; 
run through the colander and stir into it two table- 
spoons sugar and one of salt ; when milk warm, stir 
in half a cup of yeast. In summer this will rise in 
three or four hours. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Mrs. D. Buxton. 
Take four small Irish potatoes or three large ones, 
peel and grate raw, and place in a porcelain kettle with 
two quarts water; put one cup hops in a bag, drop in 
the kettle and boil until the water tastes bitter ; take 
out hops and add one cup white sugar and one table- 
spoon salt ; keep constantly boiling, and stir con- 
tinually ; cook from five to ten minutes, and when done 
it will boil up thick like starch; turn into a jar, and 
when, just tepid, in summer, or quite warm in winter^ 
add one-half pint good yeast, (always save some to 
start with.) Set jar in a large tin pan, and as often as 
it rises stir down until fermentation ceases ; (it will 
then be quite thin ;) tie up, and set away in a cool 
place and it will keep two weeks. When yeast smells,;?; 
sour but does not taste sour it is good ; if it has no 
smell it is dead. One cup will niake six good sized ' 
loaves, and if properly made you need never have 



Missing Page 



Mrs. layman's Recipes. 

Faiibault BepitbUcau. 

These recipes are kindly furnished 

us by Mrs. Walter 0. Lyman, who is a gradu- 
ate of the London school of cookery. Some 
two weeks since Mrs. Lymua delivered a suc- 
cessful course o£ lectures to the ladies of 
Faribault, and at their request she consented 
ip the publication of the following recipes, 
which we take pleasure in commending: 

BouP Stock — The base of soup should al- 
ways be leiu, uncooked meat, to which may 
be added chicken, turkey, bef or mutton 
bone!, well broken up. To four pounds of 
lean beef (the inferior parts are quite as good 
for this purpose) put five quarts of tepid soft 
water. Wast the meat and put it in the wa- 
ter without salt; let it come slowly to a boil 
ahd then skim well and set it back, aud let it 
simmer along for six or eight hours until the 
meat is in rags; then strain into an earthen 
jar, let it cool and remove all the grease. The 
stock will l^eep 'for many days, aad from it 
can bo made all the various kinds of soups. 
Whatever will be added to this, such al rice, 
tapioca, vegetables, etc., must be cuoked be- 
fore being added, as much boiling injures the 
flavor of the stock. 

Pba Soup. — Two quarts of good stock, one 
quari of split peas or green peas, one tea- 
spoonful of while sugar. Soak the peas, if 
f-plit, over night, and then boil tender in 
just enough water to prevent them from 
Bcoiching: when tender, pass through a sieve, 
ar d add them to the stock; add pepper and 
salt to taste; let all come slowly to a boil; let 
the soup simmer slowly for thirty minutes, 
and just before leaving stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in which has been Ptirred a tea- 
'spoonlul of flour. Sirva hot, with chips of 
fried bread., 

Gkeen Cokn Soup— Most Delicate and 
DeIjIoiods. — One large fowl, or four pounds 
of veal — the knuckle and neck will do as well; 
put over in one gallon of cold water, without 
^alt; cover tightly and simmer slowly till the 
meat slips from the bone; do not let it boil to 
rags, as it will maiie a nice dish for breakfast 
or lunch, or in tact, for the dinner. Set aside 
I with the meat a cupful of the liquor. Siraiu 

Ithe^soup to remove >U bones aud rags of the 

crrara .,„„ J ■ rs of green corn ; 

the heart of the 

soup, with salt. 



/ Mrs. lyman's BeSipes.) 

r< lATO 8ocpi.EE— VrjiY DjixicATE— yoni 
■goo'.-Dized manly potatces, b.'ilad; pi.«s 
thrOgh a' sieve; i/ne-h.;lc tep.oup of milk; ohi 
tabl fpor,'. ful tjf gold butter; let the butter 
and T.ilk ci ma to a scald in a clean saucepani 
add tbi' potLt", a little suit !n,d pepper, and 
beat to a cream; udd, one at a time, the yotkt. 
of 'rur eggs, beating ihi^umghly; drop «, 
small pinch of salt into the whites, aud beat 
them ti) a stiff froth; add them to the mix 
turqibenting as little as possible; have re; dy 
a W'lll-bHttered baking disb, l:irge enov^h Co 
adn.it of the souplee's risiui^ and not rnnnin« 
over; bake twenty minutes in & briak v.veu; 
serve at oiice, .s«d in the same dish in wbiob 
it T/as baked; to be eaten with meats that 
taTe gravies. 

OxsTSB Sou?. — Two quarts of oysters, one 
qu lit of milk, h»li; a pint of water, two table- 
sp<)0i!ifal8 of beat butter, one lablespbonfu 
of corn stu-Tch. Bi.r;i:i! the iniou from the 
oysters and add to;lieaUk aud water Set 
tbt stock into .Tk'tt'eof hot Witet torrr- 
vSaltbfl m'lk from sncrohin,- when it oomoh 
to a ^oil. S;aaoa witfe pepper an.', salt, nnd 
a(d m? oist^rs :ind alluw tS i-m to ntew aboui 
t'remitHtes— i:>ilontier. B. ic thco.'fustaroi 
aTidbuitiT.to acr-::m, a';dct;r in last, Berv 
I t with oyste crackers. 

Veqetable Sow.— Three onions, three oa'- 
lats, thr'P turnips,' one small cabbage, o"V 
lint of tomatoes. Oiop all the vegetablp^, 
atoept the tomatoes, vey fine, have ready iri 
aooteelain kettle three qfttts i.f bjiUngVa- 

ter, put in all except the cabbage and toma- 
toes, and simmer for half an hour, then add 
the chopped cabbage and tomatoes, the toma- 
toes having been stewed; also a bunch of 
sweet herbs Let the soup bnil for twenty 
minutes, then strain through a sieve, rubbing 
oil the vegetables through. Take two table- 
.yoonfuls of beat butter and one of flour, and 
beat them to a cream. Now, popper and salt 
y<iur soup to taste; add a teaspooaful of white 
sugar, a half cup of cream, if you have it, and 
last, stir m tlie butter and flour. Lat it boil 
up and it IS ready for the table. Serve with 
fried bread chips. 



meat; grate -one dozen ears of green corn • ' 

kernel; add th(S corn to the soup, with salt 
pepper, and a little parsley; simmer slowly a 
halt hour ; just before eerring, add a table- 

'P^r^'^VV* ^"""^ ^^"^"^ ^e^y thoroughly 
with a tablespoonful of butter. Serve hot To 
serve the coicken or veal, put the cup of 
broth m a clean saucepan; beat one egg, a 
tablespoontul of butter, and a teaspoonful of 
flour altogcLher very thoroughly, and add to 
the b.oth with salt, pepper ani chopped 
parsely; arrange the meao on a dish, pour 
over th« dssslng while boiling hot, serve at 
once. '■' 



MAKWa CiDBK ViKEc+AR.— A coiTespondrj 
ent of the CounU-y Oentkman gives di- 
rSetions as follows: "Make the cider as 
early in the season as possible. When 
i the barrel is filled, let it remain where 
the sun can shine upon it part of the 
day. Leave the bnng out, and insert 
the neck end of a bottle. This will let 
the air in, while it will keep the flies 
ont. Put into each barrel one sheet of 
foolscap paper,a half pint of white beans, 
and a half pint of good brewers yeast — 
or other yeast that is as good. Also, if 
yon choose, put in a pint of molasses. 
Manage in this way, and you wiU have 
vinegar in six weeks. Remember that 
good cider will mak e good vinegar. 

Hints to Housekeepeks.— There is an 
objection to the common way of boiling 
eggs, says the Savannah Neios, which 
people do not understand. It is this: 
The vrfiite under three minutes' rapid 
cooking becomes tough and indigestible, 
while VUe yolk is left ont. When prop- 
erly cooked, eggs are done evenly 
through like any other food. This 
result may be obtained by putting the 
eggs into a dish with a cover, as a tin 
pail and then pouring upon them boiling 
water, two quarts or more to a dozen 
eggs, and cover and set them avvay from 
the stove for fifteen minutes. The 
of the water cooks the eggs slowly 
evenly and sufficiently, and to a y 
like consistency, leaving the centi 
yolk harder than the white, and the 
tastes as much richer and nioer as a f 
egg is nicer than a stale ,egg, and 
person will want to eat them boiled i 
trying this method once. 



SaVj4D Deessiko.— The yolks of two eggs, 
T b(.aten thoroughly, one teaEpoonful of salt, 
I one of pepper, two of white sugar, two tea- 
I epoonfula of made mustard, one tableepoon- 
f ul of butter, stir into the mixture four table- 
spoonfuls of best vinegar, put the dressing 
' Qto a bowl, then set it in a kettle of hot wa- 
' tcr and stir constantly till it thickens; set it 
I away, and when cool it is ready for use. This 
is superior to the dressing made of olive oil. 
Omelette. —Take four eggs, beat the yolks 
aiid whites separately— thfi'whites to fcoth; 
rt move all of the crust from a good Biz?d 
slice of light w ite bread, pour just enough 
milk over the bread to moisten it through, 
then rub it through a sieve, then add it the 
yolks, beating ail very thoroughly; salt and 
pepper to taste. A little finely chopped 
parsley or ham may be added if desired. Melt 
a large tablespoonful of butter in a oloan frj- 
mg pan; don't let it brown, but "jast sput- 
ter. Whip in very lightly your frothed 
whites; leave some pinion of the white 
mixed with the yoiks, ponr into your 
omelette pan and shake gently but 
oonstantly, but not stir. Loosen the 
omelette f ' m the edge of the pan with a 
blunt spoon. Four minutes WiU generally 
c ...k it. Have ready a hot platter, and before 
Hiippiug the omelette out of the pan, 
UuQ one-half over the other like an old-tash- 
ijntd turnover. Serve at once. 

Mks. L.'s Qdeen or PnuDijiaa —One cup 
J; white Bug».r, two cups of rolled pracki:t3, 
or finely p-jwdered bread crumbs, one quart 
of sweet milk; pour ovfr the bread crumbs 
five eggs, one tiblespoonful of butter. Whip 
up the yolks -^ery ligbt, add all together, best 
■smoothly, flavor with aiir.on.la, vanilla or 
lemon, according to taste; bake until the cus- 
tard is set; draw the pudding out where it 
will cool ;i Utile, and tprearl over the top a 
i.bick layer of jam, m\noed orang , app)ra, 
jelly or .iiiy fine fl!ivon.d maimelidt. : wLip up 
toe fiyo wh.^* w.iii iia 1 cut of wjite sugar; 
tprcad the meringre over the pudding, ret in 
tae oven five minul es till a pale brown ; flavor 



BKEAD. 65- 

sour bread. I have used it four years, and always 
with success. 

TO HASTEN MILK YEAST. 
Take one teacup of wheat " shorts," one teaspoon 
salt, one of soda, one of ginger; add boiling water 
enough to make a thin batter ; add two tablespoons or 
less .to common milk yeast and it will rise in an hour 
or two. If kept in a cool place it will be good for 
two weeks in winter. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. C, M. 

Pare and boil four ordinary sized potatoes, boiling 
at the same time in a separate vessel a good handful 
of hops. When the potatoes are done mash fine and 
add, after straining, the water in which the hops were 
boiled ; put into this one cup white sugar and one- 
half cup salt, and add sufficient water to make one 
gallon ; when cold add one cup of good yeast, let 
stand in a warm place for a few . hours until it will 
" sing " on being stirred. When it is ready for use, 
sprinkle a little flour on top, and keep covered in a 
cellar or cool place. 



66 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



CAKE MAKING. 



" Let all things be done decently and in order," and 
the first to put in order when you are going to bake 
is yourself. Secure the hair in a net or other cover- 
ing, to prevent any from falling, and brush the shoul- 
ders and back to be sure none are lodged there that 
might blow off; make the hands and finger nails clean, 
roll the sleeves up above the elbows, and put on a 
large clean apron. Clean your kitchen table of utea- 
sils and everything not needed, and provide yourself 
wilfti everything yo'u will need until the cake is baked, 
not forgetting even the broom splints which you had 
picked off the new broom and laid away carefully in 
a little box. If it is warm weather place your eggs in 
cold water, and let stand a few minutes, as they will 
then make a finer froth, and be sure they are fresh, as 
they will not make a stiff froth with any amount of 
beating if too old. Grease the pans with fresh lard, 
which is much better than butter ; line the bottom 
with paper^ — six or eight thicknesses, greasing the top 
one well, if the cake is to be large, — the papers can all 
be cut and put in at once ; sift flour and sugar, (if not 
pulverized,) and measure or weigh. Firkin or very 
salt butter should be cut in bits and \yashed to freshen 



OAKE. 67 

a little ; if very hard, warm it carefully, but in no case 
allow any of it to melt. Beat the yolks of eggs 
thoroughly, and strain ; set the whites away in a cool 
place until the cake is i-eady for them, then beat them 
vigorously in a cool room, till they will remain in the 
dish when turned upside down. Take the measured 
flour, and mix thoroughly in it the baking powder or 
soda and cream tartar. In using new flour for either 
bread or cake making, it can be " ripened " for use 
by placing the quantity intended for baking in the hot 
sun for a few hours, or before the kitchen fire. In 
using milk, note this, that sour milk makes a spongy 
light cake, sweet milk, one that cuts like pound 
cake. 

Having thus gathered your material, beat the but- 
ter to a cream and add the sugar gradually, then the 
milk in small quantities, (never use fresh and stale 
milk in same cake,) next the yolks of eggs, then a part 
of the flour, then a part of the whites, and so on until 
all is used ; lastly add the flavoring. There is a great 
"knack" in beating cake; don't stir but beat thor- 
oughly, bringing the batter up from the bottom of 
the dish at every stroke ; in this way you drive the 
air into the cells of the batter, instead of out of them, 
but the cells will be finer to beat more slowly at the 
last, remembering that the motion should always be 
upward. In the winter it is easier to beat with the 
hand, but in summer a wooden spoon is better ; never 
beat a cake in tin, but use earthen or stone ware. All 
cakes not made with yeast should be balced as soon 
as possible after they are mixed. Unskillful mixing. 



68 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

too rapid or unequal baking, or a sudden decrease in 
heat before it is quite done, will cause streaks in the 
cake. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

■ Most ladies think fruit cake quite incomplete without 
wine or brandy ; but it can be made equally as good 
on strictly temperance principles, by substituting one- 
third of a cup of molasses for a wineglass of brandy. 
To facilitate the operation of seeding raisins, pour 
boiling water on a few at a time (it will not injure the 
fruit or cake.) To seed, clip with the scissors, or cut 
with a sharp knife. Do not chop too fine if for light 
fruit cake, seeding is all that is necessary. Slice the 
citron thin and do not have the pieces too large or 
they will cause the cake to break apart in cutting. 
Currants should be kept prepared for use as follows : 
wash in warm water rubbing well, pour off water, 
and repeat until the water is clear; drain them in a 
sieve, spread on a cloth and rub dry ; pick out the 
bad ones, dry carefully in a cool oven, and set away 
for use. When the fruit is all mixed, cream the but- 
ter and sugar, (this is very important, in all cakes,) 
add the spices, molasses or liquors, then the milk (if any 
is used,) next the eggs well beaten, then the flour ; (when 
making a " black " fruit cake brown the flour,) pre- 
pared with baking powder or soda and cream tartar, 
then the flavoring, half and half of lemon and vanilla, 
and lastly the fruit, dredged with a very little flour. 
Some prefer to mix the fruit with all of the flour. 
When eggs are beaten separately, which is the better 



CAKE. 69 

plan for all cakes, observe the directions already given. 
It is well to test your dough by baking a small sample 
cake. When the cake is cold wrap in a cloth wet in 
whiskey or brandy to keep it moist. 

In making very large cakes that require three or 
four hours to bake, an excellent way for lining the 
pan is the following : fit three papers carefully and 
grease thoroughly ; make a paste of equal parts 
Graham and white flour, wet with water just stifT 
enough to spread easily with a spoon ; place the first 
paper in the pan with the greased side down ; spread 
the paste evenly over the paper about as thick as pie- 
crust. In covering the sides of the pan, use a little 
paste to stick a portion of the paper to the top of the 
pan to keep it from slipping out of place ; press the 
second paper carefully into its place with the greased, 
side up, and next put in the third paper as you would, 
into any baking pan, and pour in the cake. 

All except layer cakes, should be covered with a 
paper cap, when first put into the oven. Take a 
square of brown paper large enough to cover well the 
cake pan, cut off the corners, and lay a plait on four 
sides, fastening each with a pin, so as to fit nicely over 
your pan ; this will throw it up in the centre, so that 
the cover will not touch the cake. Save the cap as it 
can be used several times. 

THE OVEN. 

Too much care cannot be given to the preparation 
of the oven, which is oftener too hot than too cool ; 
however, an oven too cold at first will ruin any cake. 



70 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

Cakes should rise and begin to bake before browning 
much, large cakes requiring a good steady solid heat, 
about such as for baking bread ; layer cakes a brisk 
hot. fire, as they must be baked quickly. A goo'd 
plan is to fill the stove with hard wood, let it burn 
until there is a good body of heat, and turn damper 
so as to throw the heat to the bottom of oven for 
fully ten minutes before the cake is put in. In this 
way a steady heat to start with is secured. Generally 
it is better to close the hearth when the cake is put 
in, as this stops the draft and makes a more regular 
heat. Keep adding wood in small quantities, for if 
the heat becomes slack, the cake will be heavy. 
Great care must be taken, for some stoves need to have 
the dampers changed every now and then, but as a 
rule, more heat is needed in the bottom of the oven 
than in the top. Many test their ovens in this way : 
if the hand can be held in from twenty to thirty-five 
seconds (or while counting twenty or thirty-five) it is 
a quick oven, from thirty-five ito forty-five seconds is 
" moderate," and from forty-five to sixty seconds is 
" slow ;" thirty-five seconds is a good oven for large 
fruit cakes. All systematic housekeepers will hail 
the day when some enterprising Yankee or Buckeye 
girl shall invent a stove or range with a thermometer 
attached to the oven, so that the heat riiay be regula- 
ted accurately and intelligently. If necessary to move 
the cake while baking, do it very gently, and be care- 
ful not to remove from the oven until done ; do not 
leave oven door open ; allow about thirty minutes for 
each inch of thicknesss in a quick oven, and more 



CAKE. 71 

time in a slow one. Test with a broom splint , if the 
dough does not adhere it is done. When the cake 
settles a little away from the pan it is done, and when 
it stops "singing," is another indication that it is 
ready to leave the oven. Cake should remain in the 
pan at least fifteen minutes after taking from the oven, 
and it is better to leave the " cap " on ; remove care- 
fully from the pan and never leave upside down. A 
tin chest or stone jar is best to keep it in. Coffee 
cake should be put away before it is cold, and closely 
wrapped in a large napkin, so that the aroma will not 
be lost. 

SPONGE CAKE. 
The good quality of all delicate cake, and especially 
of sponge, depends very much upon its being made 
with fresh eggs. It must be quickly put together, 
beaten with rapidity, and baked in a rather quick 
oven. It is made "sticky" and less light by being 
stirred long. There is no other cake so dependent 
upon care and good judgment in baking as sponge 
cake. In making white cake, if not convenient to use 
the yolks that are left, they will keep until the next day, 
by being thoroughly beaten and set in a cool place, 



CENTENNIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. A. S. Chapman. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, one cup butter rubbed 
to a light cream with the sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
three cups flour, one-half cup corn starch, four eggs, 
one-half pound chopped raisins, one-half a grated 
nutmeg and two teaspoons bakiog powder. 



72 THE BDCKEYB COOK BOOK. 

BUCKEYE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 
One cup butter, two cups white sugar, four cups 
sifted flour, five eggs beaten separately, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one pound seeded raisins 
chopped a little ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the milk and stir in the flour with soda and 
raisins well mixed through it ; then add the whites of 
the eggs well beaten ; bake one and one-half hours ; 
use coffee cups to measure ; this will make a cake for 
a six quart pan. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Mrs. H. W. Morey. 

Two coffee cups sugar, one of butter, half cup 
of sweet milk, eight eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one and a 
half pounds almonds, which should first be put in hot 
water until the skin will peel off, and then sliced thin. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. M. M. Munsell, Delaware. 

One pound powdered white sugar, three quarters 
pound butter, one pound sifted flour,'twelve eggs, two 
pounds raisins stoned and part of them Chopped, two 
pounds currants carefully cleaned, half pound citron 
cut in strips, a quarter ounce each of cinnamon, nut- 
meg, and cloves mixed, one wine glass wine, and one 
of brandy ; rub butter and sugar together, add yolks 
of eggs, part of flour, the spice, and whites of eggs 
well beaten, then add remainder of flour, and wine 
and brandy; mix all thoroughly together ; cover bot- 



CAKE. 73 

torn and sides of a milk pan with buttered white 
paper, put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of 
the fruit, (first dredging the fruit with flour,) until pan 
is filled up three or four inches, and then bake four 
hours. A small cup of Orleans molasses makes the 
cake blacker and more moist. When the cake is cold, 
wrap in a cloth wet in brandy or whiskey, and keep 
the cloth moistened from one to four weeks. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Miss Mary Sealts, Mt. Vernon. 

One pound butter, one of brown sugar, one of flour, 
one of raisins, one of currants, one-half pound citron, 
one tablespoon each cinnamon, allspice and cloves, ten 
eggs the whites and yolks beaten separately, three 
teaspoons baking powder; add just before baking a 
wine glass brandy, or one-third cup good molasses ; 
seed raisins, chop citron fine, and wash and dry the 
currants; mix butter and sugar, add the eggs, and 
lastly the flour in which the fruit, spices and baking 
powder have been well mixed ; bake in a six quart 
pan four hours. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. Col. James Woods, Greensburg, Pa. 
One pint molasses, one of sugar, two of flour, one of 
butter", three teaspoons ginger, one ounce cinnamon, 
and three eggs. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. A. B. Morey. 
Two cups brown sugar, one and a half of butter, six 
eggs beaten separately, three cups flour, (brown the 



74 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

flour) two tablespoons molasses, one of cinnamon, one 
teaspoon mace, one of cloves, two cups sweet milk, 
two pounds raisins, two of currants, a half pound 
citron, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar — bake 
three hours. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Mrs. A. F. Ziegler, Columbus. 

One cup Orleans molasses, one cup brown sugar, 
Onu c u p but lCT , one cup cold coffee, one cup shortening 
(butter and lard mixed), one teaspoon soda in the 
coffee, one each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, and 
one nutmeg — add fruit if you desire. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Mrs. C. F. 

Three coffee cups yeast dough light enough to 
bake for bread, two and two-thirds cups sugar, one 
cup butter, three eggs, one nutmeg; put all together 
and work with the hands until smooth as pound cake. 
It is very important that all should be mixed thor- 
oughly with the light dough ; add raisins and as 
much fruit as you desire ; let it rise half an hour in 
the pans in which you bake. The oven should be 
about right for bread ; easily made and quite as nice 
as common loaf cake. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Miss Sarah Cryder. 

Put two cups flour in a crock and mix with two 
level teaspoons cream tartar and one of soda ; make 



CAKE. 75 

well in the center into which put one cup sugar, one 
cup sweet cream, one egg and small teaspoon salt; 
mix all quickly together, flavor with one teaspoon 
lemon; put in pan to bake; add one cup raisins or 
currants, if you like, and it makes a nice cake pud- 
ding to eat hot with sauce ; sour cream can be used 
instead of sweet by omiting the cream tartar and using 
two eggs instead of one. 

CIDER CAKE. 

Miss Mary A. Dugan. 

Six cups flour, three cups sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup sour cider, one teaspoon soda, four eggs ; beat 
the eggs, butter and sugar to a cream, stir in the flour, 
then add the cider in which the soda has first been 
dissolved. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. J. S. R. 

Two cups white sugar, one of butter, one-half cup 
sweet milk, one cup corn starch, one cup flour, whites 
of six eggs and three teaspoons baking powder ; 
flavor to taste. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm. Skinner, Battle Creek, Mich. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup butter, oiie cup 
molasses, one cup strong coffee as prepared for the 
table, four eggs, one teaspoon saleratus, two teaspoons 
cinnamon, two teaspoons cloves, one teaspoon grated 
nutmeg, one pound raisins, one pound currants, four 
cups flour. 



76 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. W. M. 
One and one-half cups brown sugar, one cup molas- 
ses, one cup butter, one egg, five cups flour, one pound 
raisins, one grated nutmeg, one tablespoon cinnamon, 
one of cloves, one of allspice, one teaspoon saleratus, 
one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one cup strong coffee, 
one teaspoon lemon and one of vanilla essence. 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. Dr. Thompson. 

Three cups sugar, one cup butter, six cups flour, 
two-thirds pint sour cream, seven eggs, (leaving out 
the whites of two for icing,) one even teaspoon soda 
in the cream, one teaspoon soda in the flour, one of 
cream tartar, and one of lemon or vanilla. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Mrs. George Bever. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, a scant cup milk,, one 
and a half cups flour, one cup corn starch, whites of 
seven eggs, three teaspoons bakmg powder in the 
flour; bake in a long pan. Take one-half pound 
brown sugar, scant quarter pound chocolate, one-half 
cup milk, butter size of an egg, two teaspoons vanilla ; 
mix thoroughly and cook as syrup until stiff enough 
to spread; spread on the cake and set in the oven 
to dry. 

CINCINNATI CAKE. 

Mrs. G. E. Kinney. 

One pound fat pork chopped fine, over which pour 
one pint boiling water, two cups brown sugar, one of 



CAKE, 77 

molasses, one tablespoon each of cloves and nutmeg 
and two of cinnamon, two pounds raisins, one-fourth 
pound citron, one-half glass brandy, one teaspoon 
salt, three of baking powder, and seven cups of sifted 
flour ; bake slowly two and one-half hours. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Miss Mary E. Miller. 

Three cups flour, two of sugar, three-fourths cup 
of sweet milk, whites of six eggs, one-half cup but- 
ter, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon of 
soda ; flavor with lemon. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Hyde, Mt. Vernon. 

One cup sugar, small half cup butter, one-half cup 
sweet milk, whites of four eggs beaten to a froth, one 
and a half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
two of lemon, one cup seeded raisins; bake slowly. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Miss Mary S. Moore, Granville. 

Four cups firie white sugar, five of sifted flour, one 
of butter, one and a half of sweet milk, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in the milk, two of cream tartar, whites 
of sixteen eggs; stir sugar and butter to a cream, 
then add whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, next 
add the flour, then the milk and soda ; stir several 
minutes, then add cream tartar and flavoring. This 
makes a large cake. 

SALEM ELECTION CAKE. 

(One hundred years old.) 

Four pounds flour, one and a half pounds sugar. 



78 THE BUCKKYE COOK BOOK. 

half pound butter, four eggs, one pint yeast, and 
spice. 

OLD HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE. 

(*Over one hundred years old. ) 

Five pounds flour, two pounds butter, two pounds 
sugar, three gills distillery yeast or twice the quantity 
of home brewed, four eggs, one gill of wine, one gill 
of brandy, half an ounce of nutmeg, two pounds 
raisins, one pound citron; rub the butter and flour 
together very fine, add half the sugar, then the yeast 
and half the milk, (hot in winter, blood warm in sum- 
mer,) then add the eggs, then remainder of the milk, 
and the wine ; beat well and let rise in a warm place 
all night; in the morning beat a long time, adding 
the brandy sugar, and spice^ and fallow -to r,is^r agaiiv 
very light, alter wnicn put m cake pans^and let rise 
ten or fifteen minutes ; have the oven about as hot 
as for bread. This cake will keep any length of time. 
For raised cakes use the yeast made from Mrs. 
Buxton's recipe ; if fresh made it is ^Iways a perfect 
success for cake. 

APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. M. Ingman. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of milk, two 
eggs, one teaspoon soda, three and a half cups flour, 
two of raisins, three of dried apples soaked over night 
and then chopped fine and stewed two hours in two 
cups molasses ; beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 



* This old and valuable recipe was a favorite with the late Mrs. Eliza Burnham, 
Milford Center, and was contributed by her daughter, Mrs. Charles Fullington. 



CAKE. 7&- 

milk in which dissolve soda, then the beaten eggs and 
flour, and lastly the raisins and apples well stirred in ; 
pour in pan and bake an hour and a half. - 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. M. E. Nicely. 

One cup butter, one of brown sugar, one-half pint 
molasses, two eggs, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, one pound flour, one of currants, one and one- 
halFpound raisins; flavor to taste. 

FRUIT LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. N. S. Long. 

One cup butter, two of brown sugar, one of New 
Orleans molasses, one of sweet milk, three eggs, five 
cups sifted flour, two teaspoons cream tartar in the 
flour, one teaspoon soda in the milk, one tablespoon 
cinnamon, one nutmeg, one pound raisins, one of 
currants, one-quarter pound citron, (citron may be 
omitted, and half the quantity of raisins and currants 
will do.) Put flour in a large crock, mix well with 
cream tartar, make a well in the center, put in other 
ingredients, having warmed the butter and molasses a 
little; mix -well together with the hands, putting in 
the fruit last after ■ it has been floured ; bake two 
hours in a moderate oven. This will make two com- 
mon sized loaves. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. H. E. Roberts, Upper Alton, III. 

Five cups flour, five eggs, one cup butter, one of 
lard, two of sugar, one of molasses, one pound raisins. 



80 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

one of currants, one-half pound citron, half teaspoon 
soda, and half teaspoon cream tartar. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss Emma Skinner, Somerset. 

One pound brown sugar, one of butter, one of 
eggs, one of flour, two of raisins, two of currants, 
half pound citron, a nutmeg, tablespoon cloves, one 
of allspice, half pint brandy, and two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder ; after baking, while yet warm, pour over 
cake a half pint wine. This makes the cake delicious. 

FARMER'S FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. G. March. 

Two cups dried apples, one of molasses, two and 
a half of flour, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one and 
a half teaspoon soda, one of cloves, one tablespoon 
cinnamon; wash and soak the apples over night in 
water to cover; in the morning chop fine and add 
with the spices to the molasses and water in which 
apples were soaked ; cream the butter, add to it the 
beaten eggs and the apple and molasses mixture, and 
then the soda mixed with the flour ; pour in pan and 
bake one hour in moderate oven. . 

POOR MAN'S FRUIT CAKE. 

One and a half teacups brown sugar, one of butter, 
one of chopped raisins, half cup blackberry jam, three 
eggs, three tablespoons sour milk, half teaspoon soda, 
and flour to your judgment. 



BREAD. 81 

SCOTCH FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Shearer. 

A cup butter, two white sugar, four of sifted flour, 
three-fourths cup sour milk, half teaspoon soda, nine 
eggs beaten separately, one pound raisins, half pound 
currants, a fourth pound citron ; cream the butter and 
sugar, add milk gradually, then beaten yolks of 
eggs, and lastly, while stirring in flour, the whites 
well whipped ; flavor with one teaspoon lemon and 
one of vanilla extract ; have raisins chopped a little, or, 
better still, seeded, and citron sliced thin. Wash and 
dry currants before using, and flour all fruit slightly. 
In putting cake in pan, place first a thin layer of cake, 
then sprinkle in some of the three kinds of fruit, then 
a layer of cake and so on, always finishing off" with a 
thin layer of cake; bake in a moderate oven for two 
hours. 

THANKSGIVING FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Woodworth, Springfield, Mass. 

Six pounds flour, three of butter, three and a half 
of sugar, an ounce mace, two glasses wine, two glasses 
brandy, four pounds raisins, half pound citron, six 
eggs, one pint yeast, small teaspoon soda put in 'at 
last moment. After tea, take all the flour, (except 
one plate for dredging raisins), a small piece butter, 
and a quart or more of milk, and mix like biscuit ; 
then mix butter and sugar, and, at nine o'clock in the 
evening, if sufificiently light, put one- third of butter 
and sugar into dough; at twelve add another third, 
and very early in the morning the remainder ; about 



82 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

eleven o'clock, if light enough, begin kneading, and 
corltinue for an hour, adding meanwhile all the other 
ingredients. This will make seven loaves. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Mrs. E. L. C, Springfield. 
Half cup butter, three of flour, two of sugar, one 
of milk, three eggs, a little grated lemon, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

FIG CAKE. 

Mrs. A. B. Morey. 

A large cup butter, two and a half of sugar, one of 
sweet milk, three pints flour with three teaspoons 
baking powder, whites of sixteen eggs, a pound and 
a quarter of figs well floured and cut in strips like 
citron ; no flavoring. Splendid. 

GROVE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. F. W. 

Two and a half cups sugar, one of butter, one of 
sweet milk, four and a half of flour, eight eggs, omit- 
ting the yolks of four, two teaspoons baking powder. 

HARD MONEY CAKE. 

Miss Emma Fisher. 

Gold Part — Yolks of eight eggs, one cup butter, 
two of sugar, four of flour, one of milk, one teaspoon 
soda, two of cream tartar; flavor with lemon and 
vanilla. 

Silver Part — Two cups sugar, one of butter, four 
of flour, one of milk, one teaspoon soda, two of cream 
tartar, whites of eight eggs ; flavor with almond or 



CAKE. S3 

peach. Put in pan alternately one spoonful of gold 
and one of silver. 

HAYES CAKE. 

Miss Flora D. Ziegler, (Nine years old,) Columbus. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs 
beaten well together, one level teaspoon soda stirred 
in one-half cup sour milk, two small cups flour; 
flavor with Jemon, and pour in small dripping pan ; 
bake half an hour and cut in squares. 

HOOSIER CAKES. 

M. E, W. 

Mix crust for biscuit, roll to twice the thickness of 
pie-crust, spread with butter and sugar, cut in strips, 
roll up and bake. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Judge West, Bellefontaine. 

Two cups sugar, one of milk, two-thirds cup but- 
ter, three of flour, three eggs, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one cup nut kernels cut fine. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. E. R. May, Minneapolis, Minn. 

One pound butter beaten to a cream, one pound 
sugar, one pound flour, the grated rind and juice of a 
lemon, nine eggs, one and a quarter pounds almonds 
before they are cracked, half pound citron, half pound 
raisins ; beat the yolks light, add sugar and butter, 
then the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and lastly the 
nuts blanched, cut fine and mixed with fruit, and part 



84 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

of the flour. This is very delicious and will keep for 
months. 

LADY CAKE. 

Miss M. E. W., Madison_. 

One-half cup butter, one and a half of sugar, two of 
flour, nearly one of sweet milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one of cream tartar, whites of four eggs well 
beaten ; flavor with peach or almond. 

YELLOW LADY CAKE. 

O. S. H., Battle Creek, Mich. 

One and a half cups flour, one of sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, yolks of four eggs. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. Franlclin Woods. 

Three cups white sugar, one of butter, one of milk, 
four of flour, five eggs, one teaspoon soda in milk, 
juice of one lemon ; and grated rind if desired. 

RAISED LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. C, F. 

Six pounds flour, three of sugar, two and one-half 
of butter, four eggs, four nutmegs, half pint wine, half 
pint brandy ; in the afternoon mix butter and sugar 
together and rub the-flour into half of it ; take a quart 
of sweet milk and one quart yeast, and wet the above ; 
when very light mix all, and set to rise all night ; add 
spices, brandy and wine, in the morning ; bake in an 
oven about hot enough for bread. This makes several 
cakes and will keep any length of time. 



CAKE. 86 

LOAF CAKE. 
One pint of lukewarm sweet milk, half teacup but- 
ter, one of yeast, one of sugar; add flour to stiffen 
until you can mould in a pan, and put to rise ; when 
light mix in three cups sugar, one of butter, six eggs, 
one-half teaspoon soda ; put in baking pans and let 
rise till very light. This is enough for a large family. 

AUNT HETTIE'S LOAF CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, and one of butter beaten to a cream, 
three eggs the whites beaten separately, three cups 
flour with one teaspoon cream tartar stirred in, yolks 
of the eggs, sugar and butter stirred well ; now add 
three cups more flour with one teaspoon cream tartar, 
and one cup sweet milk and the whites of the eggs, 
and then stir again ; add one nutmeg, one pound 
raisins or currants dredged with flour, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in four tablespoons water. This makes 
two nice loaves, and is excellent. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. J. L. Porter. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one cup 
molasses, one of milk, five of flour, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, one pound raisins, 
one pound currants, and one-quarter pound citron ; 
spices to taste. 

MINISTER'S CAKE. 

Mrs. O. M. Scott. 
One and a half cups sugar, one of butter, three 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, three of flour, and two 
teaspoons baking powder. 



86 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. M. E. Smith, Cleveland. 

White Part. — Seven eggs, (whites), three cups 
white sugar, one of butter, one of sour milk, four of 
flour, sifted and heaping, one teaspoon soda; flavor to 
taste. 

Dark Part. — Seven eggs, (yolks), three cups brown 
sugar, one of butter, one of sour milk, four of flour, 
sifted and heaping, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, 
allspice and cloves, one teaspoon soda ; put in pans a 
spoonful of white part, then a spoonful of dark, and 
so on ; bake an hour and a quarter. Use coffee cups 
to measure. This will make one large and one 
medium sized cake. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Miss Mary Sealts, Mt. Vernon. 

White Part — One and a half cups white sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup milk, two and a half 
cups flour, two teaspoons baki'ng powder, whites of 
four eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor to taste; 

Dark Part — Yolks of four eggs, one and a half 
cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, two and a half cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon all- 
spice, one-quarter teaspoon black pepper, one-half a 
nutmeg; stir butter and sugar, add the milk, then 
the eggs, and lastly the flour in which the spices and 
baking powder have been well mixed ; bake one hour. 
Of course the white and dark part are alternated, 
either by putting in a spoonful of white, then of dark, 



CAKE. 87 

or a layer of white, and then of dark part, being 
careful that the cake may be nicely " marbleized." 

MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Sarah Phelps, Springfield. 

Make a batter as you would for white cake, take 
out one teacup, and to it add five tablespoons grated 
chocolate; moisten with milk, and flavor with vanilla ; 
pour a layer of the white batter into your baking pan, 
then drop the chocolate batter with a spoon in spots, 
and spread the remainder of the white batter over it. 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

Mrs. A. S. C. 
One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, three 
of flour, one of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoon 
soda, and one cup raisins chopped fine. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. D. Buxton. 

Two cups sugar, four eggs, leaving out the whites 
of two, one-half cup butter, one of water, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, three cups flour, and juice and 
grated rind arid pulp of one orange; use the remain- 
ing whites for frosting the top. 

PEACH CAKE. 

Mrfe Woodworth, Springfield, Mass. 

Bake three sheets of sponge cake as for jelly cake; 

cut peaches in thin slices ; prepare cream by whipping 

and sweetening, adding flavor of vanilla if desired ; 

put layers of peaches between the sheets of cake, and 



88 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

pour the cream over each layer, and over the top. 
This may also be made with ripe strawberries. 

PLAIN- CAKE. 

Miss Hannah Snell. • 

Three eggs, one and -one-half cups sugar, three- 
fourths cup butter, or butter and lard mixed, one 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a cup of sour milk, one 
teaspoon lemon, ilour enough to make it pretty stiff; 
bake in quick oven. 

CITRON POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. J.'M. Southard. 

Three-fourths pound butter, one of sugar, one of 
flour, eight eggs ; beat yolks and sugar together ; 
beat flour and butter to a cream ; add one pound 
citron sliced thin, then the whites well beaten ; flavor 
with lemon. 

MEASURED POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. S. W. Dolbear. 

One coffee cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one of 
flour, five eggs beaten separately ; citron and currants. 

PYRAMID POUND CAKE. 

Miss L. Southwick. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, ten eggs ; bake in 
a dripping pan so that it. will not be more than one 
inch in thickness when done ; cut when cold in 
squares of four inches, and frost top and sides ; form 
on the cake stand in pyramid before the icing is quite 
dry ; in serving, the squares are the slices. 



BREAD. 89 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

Mi-s. Ada Estelle Bever, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, half pound butter, 
whites of sixteen eggs, one teaspoon baking powder 
sifted thoroughly with the flour, put in cool oven 
with gradual increase of heat; for boiled icing for 
the cake, take three cups sugar boiled in one of water 
until clear ; beat whites of three eggs to very stiff 
froth and pour over them the boiling liquid, beating 
all the time for ten minutes ; frost while both cake 
and icing are warm. Good. 

QUEEN VIC. CAKE. 

Miss M. B. F. 

One pound flour, one of sugar, one-half pound 
butter, four eggs, one nutmeg, lemon if desired, gill 
of wine, one of brandy, one of cream, one pound 
raisins ; rub the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs to a 
perfect cream, beating a long time ; put in flour and 
fruit the last thing; bake an hour and a half; this 
makes two three pint pans full. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. M. Guy, Darby Plains. 

Six eggs, two teacups pulverized sugar; beat 
yolks and sugar to a cream, then add one and a half 
cups of flour with two small teaspoons baking powder 
in it ; then add the whites beaten to stiff froth, stir all 
slowly till top is covered with bubbles ; bake in mod- 
erately quick oven. 



90 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Eliza J. Starr. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups powdered sugar> 
two of sifted flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one- 
half cup cold water, one teaspoon soda, and grated 
rind and half of juice of one lemon ; bake in dripping 
pan. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss S. Alice Melching. 

Twelve eggs, one pint pulverized sugar, one of flour, 
not sifted, one small teaspoon salt, one heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, essence of l^mon for flavor ; 
beat the whites td a very stiff froth, and add sugar ; 
beat the yolks, strain and add them to the whites and 
sugar, beat the whole thoroughly ; mix baking pow^ 
der and salt in the flour and add last, stirring in small 
quantities at a time ; bake in a six quart pan in a 
moderate oven. This makes one very large sized 
cake. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Mary Reynolds, Hamilton. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, ten eggs ; stir yolks 
of eggs and sugar until perfectly light ; beat whites of 
eggs and add them with the flour, beating together 
lightly ; fljivor with lemon ; three teaspoons baking 
powdef- in the flour will add to the lightness, but it 
never fails without. Bake in a moderate oven. 

SHERIDAN CAKE. 

By Gen. Phil Sheridan's Sister. 
Four cups sugar, one and a half cups butter, whites 



CAKE. 91 

of sixteen eggs, five cups flour, two teaspoons 
cream tartar with the flour, one teaspoon soda with 
one cup sweet milk ; flavor to taste. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. E. L. Coles, Springfield. 

One cup butter, one of Orleans molasses, two of 
sugar, four of flour, one of sweet milk, five eggs, one 
pound raisins, one-half nutmeg, one tablespoon each 
of cloves, alspice, ginger, and one teaspoon soda. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm. Patrick, Midland, Mich. 

One-half teacup butter, one of sugar, one and a half 
of flour, one-half cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs, 
one teaspoon baking poWder ; flavor with lemon. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Mrs. Dr. Koogler, Connersville, Ind. 

Whites often eggs beaten to a stiff froth, sift lightly- 
on this one and one-half cups^fine white or pulverized 
sugar, stir well, and add one cup flour mixed with 
one teaspoon baking powder ; flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. Canby, Bellefontaine. 

One quart flour, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, one-half pound lard, one-half pound chopped 
raisins oi" currants ; roll two inches thick and bake in 
a quick oven ; split open, butter, and eat while hot. 



92 THE BUCKEYE OOOK BOOK. 

TEN MINUTE CAKES. 

Mrs. S. C. Lee, Baltimore, Md. 

One-fourth pound butter, a little less than a pound 
flour, the same of sugar, six eggs beaten separately ; 
flavor with mace; bake in muffin rings. 

TILDEN CAKE. 

Mrs. T. B. 

One cup butter, two of pulverized sugar, one of 
sweet milk, three of flour, one-half cup corn starch, 
four eggs, t\yo teaspoons baking powder, two of 
lemon extract. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

Mrs. Baxter. 

White Part — Two cups white sugar, one of but; 
ter, one of sweet milk, three and one-half of floiir, 
whites of eight eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one of soda dissolved in a little warm water. 

Red Part — One cup red sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, one-third cup sweet milk, two cups flour, whites 
of four eggs, teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one teacup raisins ; be careful to keep the red 
part around the tube of the pan and the white around 
the edge. It requires two persons to fill the pan. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Mrs. M. L. France. 

One pound white sugar, one of flour, three-fourths 
pound butter, a dozen eggs, two pounds raisins, two 
of currants, one-half pound citron, fourth ounce nut- 



CAKE. 93 

meg, fourth ounce cloves, half ounce cinnamon, a cup 
of molasses, and a little soda. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Mrs. C. H. D., Northampton, Mass.' 

Fifty eggs, five pounds sugar, five of flour, five of 
butter, fifteen of raisins, three of citron, ten of currants, 
one pint brandy, one-fourth ounce cloves, one ounce 
cinnamon, four of mace, four of nutmeg. This makes 
forty-three and a half pounds, and keeps twenty years. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. Daniel Miller. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
three of flour, whites of five eggs, two teasp'oons 
baking powder. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. Clara G. Phellis, Darby Plains. 

Whites of ten eggs, two cups sugar, one of butter, 
one of milk, three and a half of flour, three and a 
half teaspoons baking powder ; flavor to taste. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. Harvey Clark, Piqua. 

Whites of twelve eggs, three cups sugar, small cup 
butter, a cup milk, four small cups flour, half cup 
corn starch, two teaspoons baking powder, lemon to 
taste. By adding a cup citron sliced thin and dusted 
with flour, you have a beautiful citron cake. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. L. E. Bellus. 

Whites,, of fourteen eggs, (some use whites of six 



94 THE BUCKKYE COOK BOiiK. 

teen eggs,) one pound sugar, one of flour, three-fourths 
pound butter, two teaspoons baking powder; this 
cake keeps well. 

By measure ; one coffeecup (not quite full) butter, 
two of sugar, three of flour,^(not sifted,) eggs and 
and baking powder as above. 



LAYER CAKES. 

In baking this kind of cake, it is important to thor- 
oughly grease the tins, — to make it emphatic, we will 
say thoroughly grease and then grease again; after 
using them, rub them off with a coarse towel, taking 
care that they are perfectly free from all small particles 
of cake, then grease and fill again, thus obviating the 
necessity of washing them every time they are filled. 
If jelly is used to spread between the layers, it is a 
good plan to beat it up smoothly and spread before 
the cakes are quite cold. When cold, set away on a 
plate, wrap a cloth around, and put away in a tin 
cake box. 

. To blanch almonds, pour boiling water over them, 
let stand a moment, then drain and throw into cold 
water, slip off the skins and pound. 



ALMOND CAKE. 

Mrs. T. H. Shearer. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one of 



Cx\KE. 95 

sweet milk, two of flour and one of corn starch well 
mixed, whites of six eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar 
in the flour, one teaspoon soda in the milk ; cream 
the butter and sugar; add milk gradually, then the 
whites of eggs together with the flour, and bake in 
jelly tins. To put between layers, take two pounds 
almonds, blanch- and pound fine in a mortar, (or a 
cloth will do), beat whites and yolks of two eggs 
together lightly, add a cup and a half sugar, then the 
almonds with one tablespoon vanilla. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. Paris Gibson, Minneapolis, Minn. 

On beaten whites of ten eggs sift one and a half 
goblets pulverized sugar, and one goblet flour through 
which has been stirred one heaping teaspoon cream 
tartar ; stir very gently and do not heat it ; bake in 
jelly pans. For cream, take a half pint sweet cream, 
yolks of three eggs, tablespoon pulverized sugar, tea- 
spoon corn starch ; dissolve starch smoothly with a 
little milk, beat yolks and sugar together with this, 
boil the cream and stir these ingredients in as for any 
cream cake filling, only make a little thicker ; blanch 
and chop fine a half pound almonds and stir into the 
cream. Put together like jelly cake while icing is 
soft, and stick in a half pound of almonds split in two. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. M. B. FuUington. 

One pint butter rubbed into a quart of flour, one 
quart hot water with the butter and flour stirred in ; 



M THK BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

■cool, break in ten eggs and, if needed, add flour till 
thick enough to drop on buttered tins in round cakes 
the size of a small teacup ; when baked open and fill 
with mock cream made as follows ; beat three eggs 
well, add three teaspoons flour or one tablespoon but- 
ter, and stir into a piAt and a half boiling milk ; add 
saltspooi[i of salt, sugar to taste, and flavor with lemon 
or vanilla. 

FRENCH CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. Charles Morey. 

Three eggs, one teacup granulated sugar, one and 
a half cups flour, two tablespoons cold water, one 
teaspoon baking powder. This is enough for two 
cakes baked in pie pans, to be split while warm, 
spreading the hot custard between them, or for four 
cakes baked in jelly pans, with the hot custard spread 
between them ; the latter is the preferable plan. For 
custard boil nearly one pint sweet milk, mix two 
tablespoons corn starch with a little sweet milk, add 
two well beaten eggs ; stir in slowly when milk has 
boiled ; let this boil, put in nearly a teacup sugar, and 
add one-half cup butter stirred until dissolved, flavor 
with one teaspoon vanilla, and spread between cakes 
while hot. This cake can be used as a pudding by 
pouring over each piece a spoonful of the custard that 
is left. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Miss Matlie Fullington. 

Make good sponge cake, bake half an inch thick in 
jelly pans, and let them get perfectly cold ; take a pint 



CAKE. 97 

thickest sweet cream, beat until it looks like ice cream, 
then make very sweet and flavor wijth vanilla ; blanch 
and chop a pound almonds, stir into cream, and put 
very thick between each layer. This is the queen of 
all cakes. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. H. B. Sherman. 

One cup butter, two 'of sugar, one of milk, two of 
flour, one of corn starch ; extract salt from butter, 
cream the butter and sugar, add one teaspoon baking 
powder, white of eight eggs beaten to a stiff" froth ; 
this makes five layers. For filling, take four cups 
sugar, one of water, cook until it drops thick, cool a 
little, add whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff" froth, 
and one teaspoon citric acid ; flavor with vanilla. 

TIP-TOP CREAM CAKE. 

Miss Alice Trimble, Mt. Gilead. 

One cup water, one-half teaspoon baking powder, 
one-half cup of butter, three eggs, one cup flour ; let 
the water and butter boil, then stir in the flour, when 
cool add the eggs one at a time. Heat the tins before 
putting them' in the oven. Inside cream for above 
cake ; one cup milk, half cup sugar, one egg, one-half 
cup flour, beat the sugar ,,flour and eggs together, and 
add the milk when boiling. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Miss Nettie Miller, Columbus. 
To the well beaten yolks of six eggs, add two cups 
powdered white sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one 



98 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

of sweet milk, three and a half of flour, one level 
teaspoon soda and two of cream tartar, whites of four 
eggs well beaten ; bake in jelly cake pans. For icing, 
grate one cocoanut, beat whites of two eggs, one tea- 
cup powdered sugar, mix thoroughly with the grated 
cocoanut and spread evenly on the layers of cake when 
they are cold. 

COCANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Mary S. Moore, Granville. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, one of corn starch, (not 
filling cups of butter and flour very full if eggs are 
small,) two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda. Make 
custard as follows : one cup thick sour cream stirred 
thin, one cup sugar, one grated cocoanut, one egg 
beaten separately; spread between layers like jelly cake. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Mrs. Ella Snider, Minneapolis, Minn. 

One and a. half cup sugar^ three-fourths cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, two and a fourth cups flour, three 
eggs, one and a half heaping teaspoons baking pow- 
der, or a small teaspoon soda and two teaspoons cream 
tartar ; bake in j elly tins. Make caramel as follows : but- 
ter size of an egg, one pint brown sugar, one-half cup 
milk or water, one-half cake chocolate ; boil twenty 
minutes (or until thick enough) and pour over cakes 
while warm, piling the layers one upon the other. 
For frosting for top of cake, take whites of three eggs, 
one and one-half cups sugar, a teaspoon vanilla, three 
heaping teaspoons grated chocolate. 



CAKE. 99 

COOPER CAKE. 

Mrs. C. Fullington. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
three of flour, whites of five eggs, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one teaspoon soda; take one cup of 
above batter, stir into it a large tablespoon sweet 
chocolate, wet it with a tablespoon of milk, and alter- 
nate the layers, dark and white. It is an addition to 
put spices in the dark part. For filling, take half cake 
chocolate grated, a half cup sweet milk, a half cup 
sugar, yolk of one egg and one tablespoon vanilla; 
scald until thick like jelly and allow to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. S. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of milk, five 
eggs, leaving out the whites of three, four cups sifted 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder, or one small tea- 
spoon soda and two cream tartar, in the flour. For 
icing, take whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, one and a 
half cups powdered sugar, six tablespoons grated 
chocolate, two teaspoons vanilla ; buy the German or 
or French chocolate that comes in little cakes, and 
two of the small sections will generally do for a cake. 

JUST SPLENDID CUSTARD CAKE. 

Mrs. C. Hawks, Goshen, Ind. 

Two cups sugar, two and a half cups flour, one-half 
cup milk, butter size of an egg, whites of ten eggs, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda dissolved in 
milk. For custard take three-fourths pint rich sour 



100 THE BCCKEYB cook BOOK. 

cream, yolks of four eggs beaten well with two table- 
spoons white sugar, whites of two of the eggs beaten 
with the same quantity of sugar, two pounds almonds 
blanched and chopped very fine ; add the beaten yolks 
to the cream and beat until as thick as sponge cake, 
then add the whites and almonds ; flavor with vanilla. 
Spread thick between the cakes, 

HARD TIMES CAKE. 

Mrs. R. M. Henderson. 

One-half cup butter, two of sugar, one of sour 
cream, three ^of flour, three eggs, one-half teaspoon 
soda ; bake in layers and spread with jelly. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Chas. W. Cyphers, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Three-fourths pound butter, one of sugar, ten eggs ; 
beat eggs and sugar as light as for sponge cake; sift 
in with flour one teaspoon baking powder and stir 
slowly. jMake a funnel-shaped bag of heavy ticking 
or strong brown paper ; through the hole in the small 
end, push a funnel shaped tin tube, one-third inch in 
diameter at small end and provided with a flange at 
the other to prevent it from slipping quite through ; 
tie the small end of bag firmly around the tube, and 
you have a funnel shaped sack with a firm nozzle 
projecting slightly from the small end. Into this bag 
pour the batter, over which gather up the bag tightly 
so that none will run out, press and run the dough 
out quickly through the tube into a pan lined with 
light brown paper, (not buttered), making each about 
a finger long, and about as thick as a lead pencil. 



CAKE. 101 

Care is required not to get them too wide ; sprinkle 
with granulated sugar, bake in a quick oven, and, 
when cool, wet the underside of the paper with a 
brush, remove and stick the fingers together back to 
back. The bag, when made of ticking, will be useful 
in making macaroons and other small cakes. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. D. Buxton. 

One-half cup butter, one of sugar, one of flour, four 
eggs, three teaspoons milk. For jelly, take one cup 
sugar, two eggs, juice and rind of lemon ; boil in a. 
teacup of water until the consistency of jelly. 

MINNEHAHA' CAKE. 

Mrs. E. W. Herri(J<, Minneapolis, Minn. 

One and a half cups granulated sugar, half cup 
butter stirred to a cream, whites of six eggs, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar stirred in two cups flour, one of 
soda in half cup sweet milk ; bake in three layers. 
For filling, take a teacup sugar and a little water 
boiled together until it is brittle when dropped in 
cold water, remove from stove and stir quickly into 
the well-beaten white of one egg, add to this a cup 
of stoned raisins chopped fine, and place between 
layers and over the top. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

Mrs. Calista Hawks Gortner, Goshen, Ind. 

Black Part — One cupbrown sugar, two eggs, one- 
half cup butter, one half cup molasses, one-half cup 
strong coffee, two and a half cups flour, one of raisins. 



102 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

one of currants, a teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon, 
and cloves, and one-half teaspoon mace. 

White Part — Two cups sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, one of milk, two and a quarter of flour, one of 
corn starch, whites four eggs, small teaspoon creani 
tartar; make frosting of whites of two eggs to put 
between the layers. This is excellent. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. B. Brown, Washington, D. C. 

One cup butter, one of water, two of sugar, four of 
flour, three eggs, three teaspoons baking powder ; bake 
in layers ; take the juice of two large or three small 
oranges, one coffee cup pulverized sugar, one egg ; 
mix yolk of egg, sugar and juice together; beat 
whites to a stiff froth, stir in and spread between the 
layers. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Sarah Phelps, Springfield. 

Four and half teacups sifted flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder stirred into the flour, five eggs, with 
the yolks of two left out, two cups sugar, one of but- 
ter and one of milk; bake in thin layers. For cus.- 
tard, take juice and grated rind of one large orange, 
add the two yolks that were left out, sweeten to 
taste, and place on stove and stir until thick enough 
to spread. 

ROLLED CAKE. 

Mrs. Major Hall, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Five eggs, one and a half cups sugar, one cup flour, 
one tablespoon cold water, one teaspoon baking pow- 



CAKE. 103 

der ; bake in a long tin, spread jelly on and roll while 
warm. Good. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

Miss A. T. 
Two and half cups sugar, one of butter, one of 
sweet milk, teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, 
four cups flour, four eggs; reserve a third of this 
mixture, and bake the rest in two loaves of the same 
size. Add to third reserved, one cup raisins, fourth 
pound citron, a cup currants, two tablespoons molas- 
ses, teaspoon each of all kinds of spice; bake in a tin 
the same size as other loaves ; put the three loaves 
together with a little • icing, or currant jelly, placing 
the fruit loaf in the middle ; frost the top and sides. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Walter Moore's Favorite. 

Beat one cup butter to a cream, add one and a half 
cups flour, and stir very thoroughly together; then 
add one cup corn starch, and one cup sweet milk, in 
which three teaspoons baking powder have been dis- 
solved ; last add the whites of eight eggs and two 
cups sugar well beaten together ; flavor to taste ; bake 
in sheets and put together with icing. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Wm. Brown, Massillon. 

Two cups sugar, six eggs leaving out the whites of 
three, one cup boiling hot water, two and one half 
cups flour, one tablespoon baking powder in the flour; 
beat the yolks a little, add the sugar and beat fifteen 
minutes ; add the three beaten whites, and the cup of 



104 THE BUCKEYK COOK BOOK. 

boiling water just before the flour; flavor with a tea- 
spoon lemon extract and bake in thi?ee layers, puttihg 
icing between, made by adding to the three whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, six dessert spoons of pul- 
verized sugar to each egg, with lemon to flavor. 

VANITY CAKE. 

Olivia S. Hinman, Battle Creek, Mich. 

One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, half cup 
sweet milk, one and a half cups floiar, half cup corn- 
starch, teaspoon baking powder, whites of six eggs ; 
bake in two cakes, putting frosting between and on 
top. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Mrs. A, S. C. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, 
four eggs whites and yolks beaten separately, three 
cups flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one half tea- 
spoon of soda; bake in jelly pans. For filling, peel 
and grate two large apples and the rind of one lemon 
or orange with the juice, one large 'cup sugar, one 
egg ; boil in a stew-pan and when cold spread over 
the cakes, placing one on the other, icing the top one 
with common icing. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. Skinner, Somerset. 

Half cup butter, two of sugar, three and a half of 
flour, one of sweet milk, two eggs, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one of soda; bake in jelly pans and 
spread with jelly or icing. 



CAKK. 105 

DIRECTIONS FOR FROSTING. 



Beat whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add powdered 
sugar gradually, beating well all the time, lastly add 
flavoring, rose, pineapple or almond for white or deli- 
cat^ cake, and lemon or vanilla for dark or fruit cake. 
If the cake is rough or brown when baked, dust with 
a little flour, rub off all loose particles with a cloth, and 
put on frosting, pouring it around the center of the 
cake ; smooth off as quickly as possible with a knife. 
If the frosting is rather stiff, dip the knife in cold 
water. It is better to frost while the cake is still 
warm. A good general rule for frosting is ten heap- 
ing teaspoons powdered sugar to each white of an 
egg, and some add to this a teaspoon of corn starch. 
As eggs vary in size, the measurement must also vary, 
and practice only will teach when the frosting is just 
stiff enough. If the flavor is lemon juice, allow more 
sugar for the additional liquid. It is nice when your 
frosting is almost cold, to. take a knife and ipark you^ 
cake in slices. 



ALMOND FROSTING. 

Half pint sweet almonds, blanched by putting them 
in boiling water, stripping off the skins and spreading 
upon a dry cloth until cold; pound a few of them at a 
time in a mortar till well pulverized; prepare the frost- 
ing, mixing carefully whites of three eggs and three- 
quarters pint powdered sugar ; flavor with a teaspoon 



106 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

vanilla or lemori, and dry in a cool oven or in the open 
air when weather is fAeasant. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

Mrs. A. S. C. 
Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one 
large cup granulated sugar moistened with four table- 
spoons hot water ; boil sugar briskly for five minutes 
or until it " ropes " from the end of the spoon ; turn 
while hot upon the beaten eggs and stir until cold. 
If you choose, add half pound sweet almonds, blanched 
and pounded to a paste, and it will be perfectly delicious. 
This amount will frost the top of two large cakes. 

FROSTING. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add gradu- 
ally half pound best pulverized sugar, beat well for at 
least half an hour, flavor witli lemon juice (and some 
add tartaric acid, as both whiten the icingj. To color 
a delicate pink, use strawberry, currant or cranberry ; 
or the grated peeling of an orange or lemon moistened 
with the juice and squeezed through a thin cloth will 
color a handsome yellow. This amount will frost one 
large cake. 

FROSTING. 
F. M. W. • 

Break the whites into a broad platter, and at once 
begin adding powdered and sifted sugar, keep adding 
gradually, beating well all the while until the icing is 
perfectly smooth ; thirty minutes beating ought to be 
sufficient. A golden color can be given by adding a 



CAKE. 107 

part of the yolk of an egg; use a quarter of a pound 
of sugar for each egg. 

FROSTING WITH GELATINE. 

Mrs. W. A. J. 

Dissolve large pinch gelatine in six tablespoons 
boiling water ; strain and thicken with sugar and 
flavor with lemon. This is enough to frost two cakes. 

FROSTING WITHOUT EGG. 

Ola Kellogg Wilcox. 

Take two even teaspoons Poland starch, add just 
enough cold water to dissolve, cook until trans- 
parent, partially cool and thicken with pulyerized 
sugar ; flavor to taste. This takes longer to dry than 
frosting made of eggs, but never becomes brittle so 
as to snap in pieces when cutting. The above amount 
■ will cover a large cake. 

HICKORY NUT FROSTING. 

Mrs. A. S. C. 

Take one or. two eggs according to size of cake, with 
a teacup of sugar to an egg, grind or pound the meats 
very fine, sprinkle the top of cake as thickly as you 
choose, and then spread with the frosting. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING. 

Mrs. M. J. W. 

Draw a small syringe full of the icing and work it 
in any design you fancy; wheels, Grecian borders, 
flowers, or borders of beading look well. 



108 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

YELLOW FROSTING. 

Mrs. J. S. W. 

The yolk of one egg to one teacup pulverized 
sugar, or enough sugar to make it stiff as white 
frosting. 



CRULLERS AND DOUGHNUTS. 



To make these good the fat should be of the right 
heat. When hot enough, it will cease to bubble and 
be perfectly still; try with a bit of the batter, and if 
the heat is right the dough will rise in a few seconds 
to the top and occasion a bubbling in the fat, the 
cake will swell, and the under side quickly become 
brown; clarified drippings of roast meat are more 
healthful to fry them in than lard. If the dough is- 
cut about half an inch thick, five to eight minutes will 
be time enough to cook, but it is better to break 
one open as a test. When done, drain well in a skim- 
mer, and place in a colander. The use of eggs pre- 
vents the dough from absorbing the fat. Doughnuts 
should be watched carefully while frying, and the fire 
must be regulated just right. When you have finished 
frying, cut a potato in slices and put in the fat to clarify 
it, place the kettle away until the fat " settles," strain 
into an earthen pot kept on purpose for this, and set 
in a cool place. The sediment remaining in the bot- 
tom of the kettle can be used for soap grease. Fry 
in an iron kettle, the common skillet being too shal- 



110 THB BUCKEYE COUK BOOK. 

teaspoon soda, half cup lard, nutmeg to flavor ; mix 
to a moderately stiff dough, roll to half inch in. thick- 
ness, cut in rings or twists, drop into boiling lard and 
fry to a light brown. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Warm together one pint milk and one cup lard, 
add one cup yeast ; stir in flour to make a batter, let 
rise over night, then add four eggs, two and a half 
cups sugar, two teaspoons cassia and half teasp&on 
soda, a teaspoon salt ; knead and let rise again ; roll, 
cutout and let rise fifteen minutes before frying. 

SPONGE DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups white sugar, one of sweet milk, three 
eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, flour enough to 
roll i cut in rings and fry in hot lard. 



COOKIES AND JUMBLES. 



These require a quick oven. A nice "finishing 
touch" can be given by sprinkling them with gran- 
ulated sugar and rolling over lightly with the rolling- 
pin, then cutting out and pressing a whole raisiq in the 
centre of each ; or when done a very light brown, brush 
over while still hot with a soft bit of rag dipped in 
a thick- ■ syrup • of sugar and water; sprinkle with 
currants and return to the oven a moment. 



CAKE. Ill 

ADA'S SUGAR CAKES. 

Three cups sugar, two of butter, three eggs well 
beaten, one teaspoon soda, flour sufficient to roll out. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. Mary F. Orr. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of cold water, 
half teaspoon soda, two eggs, and just flour enough 
to roll. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

Mrs. E. L. C, Springfield. 

A large cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, half tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in two teaspoons hot water, flour 
enough to roll thin ; flavor with lemon. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Miss J. O. De Forest, Norwalk. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, half cup molasses, a 
cup butter, half cup sweet milk, two eggs well beaten, 
a teaspoon soda and flour enough to roll out. 

NUTMEG COOKIES. 

Miss M. S., Mt. Vernon. 

Two cups white sugar, three-fourths cup butter, two- 
thirds cup sour milk, half teaspoon soda, two eggs ; 
flavor with nutmeg; cut thin and bake m quick oven. 

■ PEPPERNUTS. 

Mrs. Emma G. Rea. 

One pound sugar, five eggs, half pound butter, half 
teacup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, flour 
enough to roll. 



112 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

SAND TARTS. 

Mrs. Clara G. Phellis. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, three of flour, two 
eggs leaving out the white of one ; roll out thin and 
cut in square cakes with a knife; spread the white of 
egg on top, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar, and 
press a blanched almond or raisin in the centre. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Miss. M, E. C. 
Two cups sugar, one of butter, two of cocoanut, 
two eggs, small teaspoon soda mixed with flour ; drop 
heaping teaspoons on buttered paper in pans. 

RICH JUMBLES. 
One pound sugar, one pound butter, two pounds 
flour, four eggs, five tablespoons wine or grated peel 
and juice of lemon ; flavor with vanilla or rose water; 
roll in fine white sugar and cut in rings. 



GINGER BREAD. 



If in making ginger bread the dough becomes too 
stiff before you roll it out, set it before the fire. Snaps 
will not be crisp if made on a rainy day. Ginger 
bread and cakes require a moderate oven, snaps a 
quick one. If cookies or snaps become moist in keep- 
ing, put them in the oven and heat them for a few 
moments. 



CAKE. 113 

AUNT MOLLY'S GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. Woodworth, Springfield, Mass,. 

Three and a half pounds flour, one of butter, one 
quart molasses, half a pint milk, one teaspoon soda ; 
mix the milk, molasses and flour together, melt and 
add the butter ; bake in sheets. This recipe is one 
hundred years old. 

GINGER BREAD, 

For General Muster clays. Over fifty years old. 

One gallon molasses or strained honey, one and a 
quarter pounds butter, quarter pound soda stirred in 
a half teacup sweet milk, teaspoon alum dissolved in 
just enough water to cover it, flour to make it stiff 
enough to roll out ; put the molasses in a very large 
dish, add the soda and butter melted, then all the 
other ingredients; mix in the evening and set in a 
warm place to rise over night ; in the morning knead 
it a long time like bread, roll into squares half an inch 
thick and bake in bread pans in an ovv n heated about 
right for bread. To make it glossy, rub over the top 
just before putting it into the oven the following : 
one well beaten egg, the same amount or a little more 
sweet cream stirring cream and egg well together. 
This ginger bread will keep an unlimited time. 

EXCELLENT SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. S. Watson. 

One and a half cups Orleans molasses, half cup 
brown sugar, half cup butter, half cup sweet milk, 
teaspoon soda, teaspoon allspice, half teaspoon ginger, 



114 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

mix all together thoroughly,' add three cups sifted 
flour and bake in shallow pans. 

SPONGE GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. M. M. M. 
One cup sour milk, one of Orleans molasses, a half 
cup butter, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, one table- 
spoon ginger, flour to make thick as pound cake ; put 
butter, njolasses and ginger together, make them quite 
warm, add the milk, flour, eggs and soda, and bake as 
soon as possible. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Miss Tina Lay, Clyde. 

Two cups molasses, one of lard, one of sugar, two- 
thirds cup sour milk, tablespoon ginger, four tea- 
spoons soda, three stirred in the flour and one in the 
milk ; two eggs. 

GINGER CRACKERS. 

Mrs. Emeline McChord, Springfield. 
One cup brown sugar, two of niolasses, two of 
lard, two teaspoons soda dissolved in a half cup hot 
water, two even tablespoons ginger. 

GINGER CAKES. 

Mrs. R. M. Hendei-son. 

One quart Orleans molasses, pint lard or butter, 
pint buttermilk, two tablespoons soda, two tablespoons 
ginger, flour enough to make a stiff batter ; pour the 
ftiolasses and rhilk boilmg hot into a large tin bread- 
pan in which have been placed the ginger and soda, 
(the pan must be large enough to prevent running 



CAKK. 115 

over,) stir in all the flour possible, after which stir in 
the lard or butter ; when cold mould with flour and 
cut in cakes. Care must be taken to follow these di- 
rections implicitly or the cakes will not be good ; 
remember to add the lard or butter last, and buttermilk, 
not sour milk must be used ; boil the molasses in a 
skillet, and after pouring it into the pan, put the butter- 
milk in the same skillet, boil and pour it over the 
molasses, ginger and soda. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Mrs. B. T. Skinner, Battle Creek, Mich. 

One and a half cups molasses, one of lard, two 
eggs, one teaspoon salt, one of ginger, one of cinna- 
mon, one tablespoon soda; mix all thoroughly to- 
gether with only enough flour to roll. 

BEST GINGER DROPS. 

Mrs. C. Hawks, Goshen, Ind. 

Hatf cup sugar, a cup molasses, half cup butter, 
one teaspoon each cinnamon, ginger and cloves, two 
teaspoons soda in a cup boiling water, two and a half 
cups flour; add two well beaten eggs the last thing 
b&fore baking. Bake in gem tins or as a common 
ginger bread, and eaten warm with a sauce it makes 
a nice dessert. 

GINGER. PUFFS. 

Half pound flour, four eggs, teaspoon ginger, a little 
grated nutmeg, tablespoon l»af sugar, half gla?s 
wine; beat well together, bake in cups in a quick 
oven and serve with wine sauce. 



116 THK BUCKEyt: COOK BOOK. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Miss. Mary Gallagher. 

Two cups molasses, one of lard, one tablespoon 
soda, one of ginger, flour to roll stiff. 

HOTEL GINGER SNAPS. 

■flrs. Hattie Clemmons. 

One gallon molasses, two pounds brown sugar, one 
quart melted butter, half teacup ground cloves, one- 
half teacup of mace, half teacup cinnamon, half tea 
cup ginger, two of soda. Very excellent. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. W. P. Ander..on, 

One pint Orleans molasses, half pint melted lard, 
half pint boiling water, one and a half tablespoons 
soda dissolved in water, tablespoon ginger and a little 
salt ; stir in flour to make as soft a dough as possible 
to roll ; take a small' quantity at a time, roll thin, and 
bake in a hot oven. 



CREAMS AND CUSTAEDS. 125 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



For creams and custards, eggs should never be 
beaten in tin, but always in stone or earthen ware, as 
there is some chemical influence about tin which pre- 
vents their attaining that creamy lightness so desirable 
in custards. Beat quickly and sharply right through 
the eggs, beating whites and yolks separately. Allow 
four eggs, one cup sugar, and one small half teaspoon 
salt to each quart of milk. Bake in a baking dish 
until firm in the centre, taking care that the heat is 
moderate or the custard will turn in part to whey. It 
is much nicer to strain the yolks after they are beaten, 
through a small wire strainer, kept for this purpose by 
every good housekeeper. For boiled custards or 
floats, always place the milk to boil in a pan of pail- 
set within a kettle o{- boiling water; when the milk 
reaches the boiling point, which is shown by a slight 
foam rising on top, add the sugar which cools it so 
that the eggs will not curdle when added. Let remain 
a ^^'w moments, stirring constantly until it thickens a 
little, but not long enough to curdle, then either set 
the pail immediately in cold water, or turn out into a 
cold dish, (allow ten or fifteen minutes boiling to a 
quart of custard ;) add flavoring after -emoving from 



« 



126 THE BDCKEYB COOK BOOK. 

the stove. "Peach leaves give a fine flavor, but must 
be boiled in the milk and then taken out before the 
other ingredients are added. Boiled custards are very 
difficult to make, and must have the closest attention 
until they are finished. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

M. Parloa. 

I 

Cut stale sponge cake into slices about half an inch 
thick and line three moulds with it, leaving a space 
of half an inch between each slice ; set the moulds 
where they will not be disturbed until the filling is 
ready ; take a deep tin pan and fill about one-third 
full of either snow or pounded ice, and into this set 
another pan that will hold at least four quarts. Into 
a deep bowl or pail (a whip churn is better,) put one 
and a half pints of cream, (if the cream is thick take 
one pint of cream and a half pint of milk,) whip to a 
froth, and when the bowl is full, skim the froth into 
the pan which is setting on the ice, and repeat this 
until the cream is all froth ; then with the spoon draw 
the froth to one side, and you will find that some of 
the cream has gone back to milk ; turn this into the 
bowl again, and whip as before ; when the- cream is 
all whipped, stir into it two thirds cup powdered 
sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, and half a box of gelatine 
which has been soaked in cold water enough to cover 
it, for one hour, and then dissolved in boiling water 
enough to dissolve it, (about half a cup full ;) stir from 
the bottom of the pan until it begins to grow stiff; 
fill the moulds and set them on the ice in the pan' for 



CREAMS AND- CUSTARDS. 127 

one hour, or until they are sent to the table. When 
ready to dish them, loosen lightly at the sides and 
turn out on a flat dish ; have the cream ice cold when 
you begin to whip it; it is a good plan to put a lump 
of ice into the cream while whipping it. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. H. B. Sherman. 

One quart milk, six ounces sugar, two ounces isin- 
glass ; put all into a sauce-pan and on the stove; 
when dissolved, take off, strain through a seive and 
put on ice until it begins to set, then add one cup of 
wine and flavor to taste ; when it begins to set, take 
one quart cream, beat to a stiff froth, and stir all 
together. Then take charlotte russe moulds, line 
them with sponge cake with a layer of jelly at the 
bottom ; fill with the custard and set on ice for two 
hours. 

HAMBURG CREAM. 

Mrs. C. Fullington. 

The rind of one and juice of two large lemons, 
eight eggs, one cup sugar ; put all in a bucket, set in 
a pan of boiling water, stir for a few minutes, take 
from the fire, add the whites of eggs beaten and eat 
when cold. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. N. P, Wilts, Ripley. 

Soak one-third box gelatine half an hour in cold milk, 
put- a quart milk on to boil and when boiling, 
stir in yolks of eight eggs well beaten, add one 
cup and a half of sugar and the gelatine ; when the 



128 , THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

custard begins to thicken, take it off and pour into a 
deep dish in which the eight whites have been beaten 
to a stiff froth ; mix well together and flavor to taste ; 
put in moulds and allow four hours to cool. This 
cream is much more easily made in winter than in 
summer. 

ROCK CREAM. 

Miss Libbie S. Wilcox, Madison. 

Boil one cup rice in sweet milk until soft, add two 
tablespoons loaf sugar, pour into a dish and place on 
it lumps of jelly ; beat the whites .of five eggs and 
three tablespoons pulverized sugar to a stiff froth ; 
flavor to taste, add one tablespoon ckh cream and 
drop the mixture on the rice. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

Mrs. R. M. Henderson. 

Soak over night two tablespoons "tapioca in one- 
half teacup milk, (or enough to cover) ; bring one 
quart milk to boiling point; beat well together the 
yolks of three eggs, one-half teacup sugar, and one 
teaspoon lemon or vanilla for flavoring; add the 
tapioca, and stir the whole into the boiling milk, let 
boil once, turn into the dish, and immediately spread 
on the whites, '^erve when cold. 

Velvet cream. 

Mrs. J. A. Rea, Minneapolis, Minn. 

One and a half quarts of cream, one pint wine, one 
pound .sugar, one ounce gelatine; dissolve gelatine in 
wine over the fire; dissolve the sugar in the cream 



CKEAMS AND CUSTAEDS. 129 

and whip ; add the wine when cold and whip ; pour 
into moulds. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Baked apples are delicious with it, also all kinds of 
fresh or preserved berries. Fill your jelly glasses 
one-third full of jelly, and fill up with whipped cream, 
and you will have a healthful and delicious dessert. 
By all means procure a " whip-churn." 

BLANC MANGE. 

Mrs. E. M. R. 

Dissolve three heaping tablespoons corn starch and 
three of sugar in one pint of milk ; add to this three 
eggs well beaten, and pour this mixture into one pint 
of boiling milk, stirring constantly until it boils again; 
just before taking from the stove, flavor to suit the 
taste and pour into moulds. 

RASPBERRY BLANC MANGE. 

Mrs. E. M. R. 

Stew nice fresh raspberries, strain off the juice and 
sweeten it to taste, place over the fife and when it 
boils stir in corn starch wet in cold water, allowing 
two tablespoons of corn starch for each pint of juice; 
continue stirring until sufficiently cooked, pour into 
moulds wet in cold water and set away to cool ; eat 
with cream and sugar. Other fruit can be used instead 
of raspberries. 

MONT BLANC. 

Miss Lou Brown, Washington City. 
One-half box gelatine soaked half an hour in half 



130 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

pint cold water ; add half pint boiling water and, 

when cool, whites of three eggs well beaten, two cups 

of sugar, juice of two lemons; beat the whole 

thoroughly half an hour or more, and put away to 

cool in a mould or in a dozen egg glasses, (the latter 

make a handsome dish and easier to serve.) • Make a 

I 
boiled custard of the yolks and one and one-half pints 

of milk ; sweeten to taste. Put the dozen snow balls 

in the glass fruit dish, and pour over them the cold 

custard. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. G. W. Hensel, Quarryville, Pa. 
One pint of mashed stewed apples, one pint sweet 
milk, four eggs, one cup sugar and a little nutmeg ; 
bake slowly. 

APPLE SNOW. 
Mrs. W. H. E. 
Add to the pulp of eight baked apples half pound 
powdered sugar, the juice of one lemon and the 
whites of three eggs ; beat well together for one hour ; 
make custard of yolks, sugar, and milk, place in a dish, 
and drop the froth on it in large flakes. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. J. H. Shearer. 

Two sections chocolate dissolved in one quart of 
milk, one cup sugar, yolks of six eggs, a heaping 
tablespoon corn starch ; beat the yolks, add the sugar 
and corn starch, stir all slowly in the boiling milk in 
which the chocolate is dissolved, add a pinch of salt. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 131 

and let cook a few minutes stirring constantly ; eat 
cold with white cake. 

CORN MEAL CUSTARD. 

E. M. R. 
One-fourth pound corn meal, one pint milk, boil 
together fifteen minutes, add one-fourth pound butter, 
six eggs, rose water, brandy, salt, and sugar to suit 
the taste ; very fine. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Make a custard of the yolks of six eggs, one quart 
milk, a small pinch of salt, sugar to taste ; beat and 
strain yolks before adding to the milk ; place custard 
in a large tin pan, and set on stove, stirring constantly 
until it boils, then remove, flavor with lemon or rose, 
and pour into a dish, (a shallow wide one is best,) 
spread smoothly over the boiling hot custard the well 
beaten whites, grating some loaf sugar and cocoanut 
on the top. Set your dish in a pan of ice water and 
serve cold. 

FLUMMERY. 

Mrs. C. F. 

Cut sponge cake into thin slices and line a deep 
dish with it and make it moist with white wine ; pour 
over it a rich custard with the whites on the top. 

GOOD BAKED CUSTARD. 

M. G. 
Eight well beaten eggs, leaving out two whites for 
the top, three pints milk, sweeten and flavor to taste ; 



132 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

bake two hours. Beat whites stiff for the top with a 
Httle powdered sugar. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

One and a half pints sweet milk, four eggs, juice 
and rind of one lemon, one cracker rolled and sifted, 
one cup sugar. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

■^_One cup cooked rice, one quart sweet milk, three 
eggs, one cup sugar, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one 
tablespoon butter, one cup raisins. 

SPICED CHOCOLATE. 

One quart milk, two squares chocolate, one stick 
cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg; grate chocolate, 
boil the milk, reserving a little cold to moisten choco- 
late which must be mixed perfectly smooth to a paste; 
when the milk boils put in and boil cinnamon ; stir in 
the chocolate and let boil quickly ; pour in a pitcher, 
and grate in nutmeg. It is nice to add rich cream. 

SNOW FLAKE. 

Mrs. Col. Woods, Greensburg, Pa.- 

One package gelatine, pint cold water, quart boiling 

water, pint wine, three lemons, three pounds sugar, 

''half bottle vanilla ; put this away until cold ; take the 

whites of six eggs, beat stiff, then beat up with the 

jelly and .place in moulds. This is a favorite. 



CONFECTIONEEY. 133 



CONFECTIONERY. 



The first step in candy maicing is the reduction of 
sugar to a simple syrup, which is done by dissolving 
four pounds white sugar in one quart water; place this 
in a porcelain kettle over a slow fire for half an hour, 
pour into it a small quantity of 'gelatine and gum 
arabic dissolved together ; all the impurities will rise 
to the surface and should be at once skimmed off. 
Instead of gelatine and gum arabic, the white of an 
egg may be used as a substitute with good results. 
To make the clarifying process still more perfect, strain 
through a flannel bag. When clarified, to make rock 
candy, boil a few moments, allow to cool, and crystal- 
ization takes place on the sides of the vessel. To make 
other candies, bring the syrup with great care and 
watchfulness, to such a degree of heat that the "threads,'' 
which drop from the spoon when raised into the 
colder air, will snap like glass. When this stage is 
reached, add a teaspoon of vinegar or cream tartar to 
prevent " graining," and pour into pans as directed in 
the recipes which follow. To make round stick can- 
dies, roll into shape with well floured hands as soon 
as cool enough to be handled. Colored candies are 



134 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

often injurious, and sometimes even poisonous, and 
should be avoided. 

In baking macaroons and kisses use washed butter 
for greasing the tins, as lard or salt butter gives an 
unpleasant taste. 

CENTENNIAL DROPS. 

Miss Alice Trimble, Mt. Gilead. 

White of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, one-quarter 
pound pulverized sugar, one-half teaspoon baking 
powder ; flavor with lemon ; butter tins and drop with 
teaspoon about three inches apart; bake in a slow 
oven and serve with ice cream. This is also a very 
nice recipe for icing. 

BUCKEYE KISSES. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Beat the whites of four small eggs to a high, firm 
froth, stir into it half a pound pulverized sugar, fla. r 
with essence lemon or rose, continue to beat until 
very light ; then drop half the size of an egg, and a 
little more than an inch apart, on well buttered letter 
paper ; lay the paper on a half inch board and place 
in a hot oven ; watch, and as soon as they begin to 
look yellowish take them out ; or, beat to a stiff froth 
the whites of two eggs, stirring into them very grad- 
ually two teacups powdered sugar, and two table- 
spoons corn starch; bake on buttered tins fifteen 
minutes in a warm oven, or until slightly brown. 
Chocolate puffs are made by adding two ounces grated 
chocolate mixed with the corn starch. 



CONEECTIOlSrERY. 135 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Miss L. S. W. 
Pour boiling water on half a pound almonds, take 
skins off and throw into cold water for a few moments, 
then take out and pound, (adding a tablespoon essence 
lemon) to a smooth paste, add one pound of pulverized 
sugar and whites of three eggs, and work the paste 
well together with back of spoon ; dip the hands in 
water and roll mixture into balls the size of a nutmeg, 
and lay on buttered paper an inch apart ; when done, 
dip the hands in water and pass gently over the mac- 
aroons, making the surface smooth and shining ; set 
in a cool oven three-quarters of an hour. If this 
recipe is strictly followed, the macaroons will be found 
equal to any made by, professed confectioners. 

BUCKEYE BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Mrs. J. S. R. 
Three pounds coffee "A" sugar, one-fourth pound 
butter, one-half- teaspoon cream tartar, eight drops 
oil of lemon ; add as much cold water as will dissolve 
the sugar ; boil without stirring till it will easily break 
when dropped in cold water, and when done, add ^he 
oil of lemon ; have a dripping pan well buttered and 
pour in one-fourth inch thick, and when partly cold, 
mark off in squares. If pulled when partly cold, till 
very white, will be like ice cream candy. 

CANELLONS. 

Mrs. V. G. Hush, .Minneapolis, Minn. 

Make a stiff paste with a quarter pound flour, half 
as much fine white sugar, half cup melted butter, and 



136 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

a tablespoon grated lemon peel or essence lemon ; roll 
rather thin ; make little tubes ' of stiff paper, about 
three inches long by one in diameter, butter well the 
outside and wrap each in some of the paste, close 
neatly on one side, and bake a few minutes in a quick 
oven ; when done and cooled a little, take out the 
■card and fill with a jelly or marmalade, smoothing 
over the open ends with a knife dipped in water. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Miss Emma Collins, Urbana, 

One and a half cups grated chocolate, three of 
brown sugar, and one and a half cups water or milk ; 
flavor with vanilla before taking off; pour into a well 
buttered and floured dripping-pan, and check off in 
squares while soft. Avoid stirring while cooking. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

Mrs. O. M. Scott. 

Two and a half cups pulverized or granulated 
sugar, one-half cup cold water ; boil four minutes 
and stir till cold enough to rnake into little balls ; 
take half a cake of Baker's chocolate, and cut off fi:ne 
and set where it will melt ; and when balls are xool 
enough, roll in the chocolate. This makes eighty. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS. 

Miss Nettie Brewster, Madison. 

One pint milk, butter size of an egg, one cocoanut 
grated fine, three pounds white sugar, 4:wo teaspoons 
lemon, boil slowly until stiff; when partly cold cut 
in squares. 



CONFECTIONERY. 137 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

C. W. Cyphers, Minneapolis, Mmn. 

One pound cocoanut, half pound powdered sugar,, 
and the white of one eg^ ; work all together and roll 
into little balls in the hand ; bake on buttered tins. 

EVERTON ICE CREAM CANDY. 

Mrs. J. S. R. 

Take one and one-half pounds moist white sugar, 
two ounces of butter, one and one-half teacups water, 
one lemon ; boil the sugar, butter, and water together 
with half the rind of the lemon, and when done, (which 
may be known by its becoming quite crisp when 
dropped into cold water), set aside till the boiling has 
ceased, and then stir in the juice of the lemon, butter 
a dish and pour in about an inch thick. The fire 
must be quick and the candy stirred all the time. 

GERMAN CAKES. 

Miss Flora Partridge. 

One pound flour, one of while sugar, quarter pound 
alnionds cut into small pieces, five eggs, grated rind 
of one lemon ; drop this mixture into a large buttered 
pan, a teaspoonful in a place, and bake until tinged 
with brown. Eggs and sugar should be beaten fifteen 
minutes. 

HICKORY NUT TAFFY. 

Aunt Top's Recipe. 

Two pints maple sugar, half pint water, or just 
enough to dissolve sugar, boil until it becomes brittle 
by dropping in cold water; just before pouring out 



138 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

' add a tablespoon vinegar; having prepared the hickory- 
nut meats, in halves if possible, butter well the pans, 
line with the meats, and pour the taffy over them. 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 

Mrs. Walter Mitchell, Gallipolis. 

Take meats of hickory nuts, pound fine and add 
ground spice ; make frosting as for cakes, stir meats 
and spices in, putting in enough to make it conveni- 
ent to handle ; flour your hands and make the mix- 
ture into balls the size of marbles, lay them on but- 
tered tins, giving room to spread, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

LEMON CANDY. 

Mrs. V. K. W. 

Take a pound loaf sugar and a large cup water, 
and after cooking over a slow fire half an hour, clear 
it with a little hot vinegar, take off the scum as it 
__ rises, testing by raising with a spoon, and when the 
"threads'' will snap like glass pour into a tin pan, 
and when nearly cold mark in narrow strips with a 
knife. Before pouring into the pans, chopped cocoa- 
nut, almonds, hickory nuts or Brazil nuts cut in sliceS) 
may Oe stirred into it. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Sterling Robinson. 

Take equal quantities brown sugar and Orleans 
molasses, and when it begins to boil, skim well and 
strain, return to the kettle and continue boiling until 
it becomes brittle if dipped in cold water, then pour 
on a greased platter. As soon as cool enough, begin 



CONFECTIONERY. 139 

to throw up the edges and work by pulling on hook 
or by hand, until bright and glistening like gold ; 
flour the hands occasionally, draw into stick size, 
rolling them to keep round, until all is pulled out and 
cold. Then with shears clip a little upon them at 
proper lengths for the sticks, and they will easily 
snap ; flavor as you pour the candy out to cool. 

PYRAMID OF COCOANUT DROPS. 

Mrs. A. G. Wilcox, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Boil some loaf sugar to the candy point, (see lemon 
candy,) rub butter over the outside of the tin or paper 
form, set firmly on a plate or table, and begin at the 
bottom by putting a row of "drops" around it, stick- 
ing them together with the prepared sugar, then add- 
ing another row, and so on until finished. When the 
cement is cold the pyramid may be taken from the 
form. Kisses or cocoanut drops, being lighter, are 
more difficult to make in this form than macaroons. 

POP CORN BALLS. 

Bert Robinson. 

Pop the corn and reject all that is not nicely opened ; 
place a half bushel on a table or dripping pan; put a 
little water in a suitable kettle, with one pou.id sugar, 
and boil until it becomes quite waxy in cold water; 
remove from fire and dip into it six or seven table- 
spoons of gum solution, (made by pouring boiling 
water on gum arabic and letting stand over night ;) 
dip mixture over the corn, putting a'stick or the hands 
under the corn, lifting it up and mixing until it is all 
saturated, then with the hands press quickly into 



140 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

balls ; this amount will make one hundred pop corn 
balls such as the street peddlers sell, but for home 
eating, omit the gum solution, and use a half pint of 
stiff taffy made as above for one peck of popped corn. 
This will make twenty rich balls. 

PEANUT CANDY. 
To one pound of coffee sugar, add cold water to 
moisten, one tablespoon sharp vinegar, one of butter; 
boil till it will break in cold water ; then take your 
peanut meats broken in bits, stir lightly through the 
taffy and pour in well buttered dripping pan to the 
thickness of half an inch, and when partly cold, cut 
in shapes to suit your fancy ; when entirely cold it 
will easily break where desired. 

SUGARED CALAMUS OR SWEET FLAG. 

Mrs. R. S. Wilcox, Madison. 

Dig the roots, wash and scrape carefully, cut cross- 
wise in thin slices, put in a tin dish or porcelain 
kettle, cover with water, and boil till soft, (taking care 
to replace the water as it evaporates ;) add its bulk of 
sugar, simmer slowly a few moments, (it burns easily 
now,) and pour out on a shallow plate; stir often while 
drying and the sugar will adhere better to the slices. 

VANITY PUFFS. 

Mrs. H. C. Mahncke, 

Beat five or six whites of eggs very stiff; add a pound 
of sugar, flavor with lemon or cardamon, cut off about 
egg size with a tablespoon, put in thin paper, and let 
dry in a cool stove two hours. 



CANNING FRUITS. 141 



CANNING FRUITS. 



Cleanse the cans thoroughly and test to see if any 
leak or are cracked. If tin cans leak, send them to 
the tinner ; if discolored inside they may be lined 
with writing paper just before using. If you buy 
stoneware for canning purposes, be sure that it is well 
glazed, as fruits canned in jars or jugs imperfectly 
glazed sometimes become poisonous. Never use de- 
fective glass cans, but keep them for storing things in 
the pantry ; and in buying cans, take care that they 
are free from flaws and blisters, else the glass will 
crumble off in small particles when subjected to heat. 
" Self-sealers are very convenient, but the heat hardens 
the rubber rings, which it is dijfificult to replace, so 
that in a year or two they are unfit for use. For this 
reason, many prefer those with a groove around the 
top for sealing with wax or putty. The latter is very 
convenient for use, as jars sealed with it can be opened 
readily with a strong fork or knife, and are much 
more easily cleaned than when wax-sealed. Putty 
may be bought ready for use, and is soon made soft 
by moulding in the hand, when it should -be worked 
out into a small roll, and pressed firmly into the groove 



142 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

with a knife, care being taken to keep it well pressed 
down as the can cools. 

Fruit should be selected carefully, and all that is 
imperfect rejected. Large fruits, such as peaches, 
pears, etc., are in the best condition to can when not 
quite fully ripe, and should be canned as soon as 
possible after picking ; small fruits, such as berries, 
should never stand over night. Use only the best 
sugar, in the proportion of half a pound of sugar to 
a pound of good fruit, varying the rule of course, 
with the sweetness of the fruit and your own taste. 
When ready to can, first place the jars (glass) in a 
large pan of warm water on the back of the stove, 
, make ready the syrup in a nice clean porcelain kettle, 
add the fruit, — it is better to prepare only enough fruit 
or syrup for two or three cans at a time, — and by the 
time it is done, the water in the pun will be hot and 
the cans ready for use. Take them out of the water 
and set on a hot platter, which answers the double 
purpose of preventing their contact with any cold 
surface, like the table, and saving any fruit that may be 
spilled. Fill as full as possible, and set aside where 
no current of air will strike them, — or, better, wring 
out a towel wet in hot water and set them on it, — let 
stand a moment or two, or until wiped off, when the 
fruit will have shrunk away a little ; fill up again with 
hot syrup if you have any ; if not, boiling water from 
the teakettle Will do, and then seal. 

There are several other ways of preparing glass 
cans for fruit, among them the following : Wring a 
towel, from cold water, double and wrap closely about 



CANNING FRUITS. 143 

and under the can so as to exclude the air, put a cold 
silver spoon inside and fill ; or, put a towel in a steamer, 
set in the cans, and place over a kettle of cold water, 
boil the water, and when ready to fill, remove the cans 
and wrap in a towel wrung from warm water, put a 
tablespoon rinsed in hot water inside and fill ; or, 
wash the cans in tepid water, place an iron rod inside, 
and at once pour in the boiling fruit, but not too fast. 
In using glass cans with tops which screw on, be sure 
that the rubbers are firm and close fitting, and throw 
away all that are imperfect. When the can is filled to 
overflowing, put on the top at once and screw down 
tightly, and as the fruit and cans cool, causing con- 
traction of the glass, turn down again and again, until 
perfectly air tight. 

In canning berries, select those of which the skins 
have not been broken, or the juice will darken the 
syrup ; fill cans compactly, set in a kettle of cold 
water with a cloth beneath them, over an even 
heat ; when sufficiently heated, pour over the berries 
a syrup of white sugar dissolved in boiling water, (the 
richer the better for keeping, though not for preserv- 
ing the flavor of the fruit,) cover the cans closely to 
retain heat on the top berries. To insure full cans 
when cold, have extra berries heated in like manner to 
supply the shrinkage. If the fruit swims, pour off 
surplus syrup and fill with hot fruit, and seal up as 
soon as the fruit at the top is thoroughly scalded. 

Glass cans should be wrapped, as soon as cold, with 
brown wrapping paper, unless the fruit closet is very 
dark; lieht injures all fruit, but especially tomatoes. 



144 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

in wljich it causes the formation of citric acid, which 
no amount of sugar will sweeten. The place where 
canned" fruits are kept should also be dry and cool. 
In canning, always use a porcelain lined kettle, silver 
fork and wire spoon or dipper. 

Cans should be examined two or three days after 
filling, and if syrup leaks out from the rim, should be 
unsealed, the fruit thoroughly cooked, and kept for 
jam or jelly, as it will have lost the delicacy of 
color and flavor so desirable in danned fruits. Pint 
cans are better for berries than quart. Strawberries 
keep their color best in stone jars ; if glass cans are 
used they should be buried in sand. 

In using self-sealing cans, the rubber ring must 
show an even edge all round, for if it slips back out 
of sight at any point, air will be admitted. 

On opening tin cans, remember to pour all the 
fruif out into an earthen or glass dish, never leaving 
it in tin. 

Wines, cider, shrubs, etc., must be bottled, well 
corked, sealed, and the bottles placed on their sides 
in a box of sand or saw dust. 

Plums pricked with a fork will not break when 
canned. 

The fine display of canned fruits at the Centennial 
was prepared as follows : The fruit was selected with 
great care, of uniform size and shape, and all perfect. 
They were carefully peeled with a thin, sharp silver 
fruit knife, which did not discolor them, and immedi- 
ately plunged into cold water in an earthen or wooden 
vessel to prevent the air from darkening them. As 



CANNING FRUITS. 145 

soon as enough for one can was prepared, it was put 
up by laying the fruit piece by piece in the can, and 
pouring syrup, clear as crystal, over it, and then, after 
subjecting the whole to the usual heat, sealing up. 



CANNED BLACKBERRIES. 

M. Parloa. 

Put the berries in a bright tin pan and set over a 
boiler of boiling water, adding to a gallon of berries 
one cup boiling water ; heat the berries to the boiling 
point; will heat much sooner if covered and stirred 
occasionally. Heat self-sealing jars by putting them 
in a pan of cold water, set on the stove and let the 
water boil ; fill the jars to the top, put on the covers 
and set as tightly as possible, and as the glass shrinks 
in cooling set very tight. Always use the fruit as 
soon as opened. Any kind of fruit put up in this 
way will keep nice for years. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. 

Mrs. O. M. S. 
Cook the berries in water until white, but not 
enough to break them ; put into cans with as little 
water as possible, fill up the can with boiling water 
and seal ; when opened pour off water and cook like 
fresh berries. 

CANNED PEACHES OR PEARS. 

Miss L. W. F. 
Pare, halve and core, sweeten just as you would 



146 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

for palatable eating, (one or two pounds of sugar to 
ten or twelve quarts fruit,) let stand until sugar is 
dissolved, (use no water,) place on the stove in a 
porcelain kettle and keep at boiling point long enough 
to heat it through. The heating expels the air. 
Prepare all berries, cherries, plums, etc., in this .man- 
ner. Follow the directions for canning in glass jars. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 
Pare, -halve and seed ; make a syrup of one pint 
granulated sugar to one quart water, place on stove 
in a porcelain kettle ; (enough for two one quart cans.) 
When syrup boils, drop in enough fruit for one can; 
watch closely, testing with a silver fork, so that the , 
moment they are done they may be removed. When 
the peaches are tender, lift very gently with a wire 
spoon, and place in the can previously heated, accord- 
ing to instructions for preparing glass cans. When 
full of peaches, pour in the hot syrup, place the cover 
on and- seal at once; then add more peaches to your 
hot syrup for next can and repeat the operation. If 
you have more peaches than will fill the can, place 
them in another can and keep hot until more are ready, 
and so on until all are canned. Skim the syrup before 
adding peaches, making only enough syrup at one 
time for two cans. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Mrs. Frank Stahr, Lancaster, Pa. 

Take one peck of large clingstone peaches, pour 
boiling water over them to remove the fuzz, make a 



CANNING FRUITS. 147 

syrup of three pounds of sugar and one pint of vinegar, 
using a little water if required to cover the peaches^ 
cook until pretty soft, and can as usual. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Mrs. R. A. Sharp, Kingston. 

Have two porcelain kettles, one with boiling water, 
the other with a syrup made sweet enough with white 
sugar for your peaches ; pare, halve, and drop them 
into the boiling water; let them remain until a silver 
fork will pierce them ; lift them out with a wire spoon, 
and place in the can. until full, then pour on enough 
of the boiling syrup to fill the can, and seal immedi- 
ately ; continue in this way, preparing and sealing only 
one can at a time, until done ; boil down the water in 
your kettle with the syrup if any is left, if not add 
more sugar, and you will have quite a nice marmalade. 
This manner of canning peaches, has been thoroughly 
tested, and pronounced by the experienced, the best 
of all methods. 

CANNED PINE APPLE. 

Peel and slice, make syrup in proportion of two 
and a half pounds best white granulated sugar to 
neatly three pints of water ; boil five minutes ; skim 
or strain ; add fruit and let it boil ; have cans hot ; fill 
and shut up as soon as possible. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Miss Abbie Curtis, St. Louis, Mo. 

To peel, place in a wire basket, such as is used for 
popping corn, dip into boiling water for a moment, 



148 THE BuriKBYB COOK BOOK. 

then into cold water ; strip off the skin ; in this way- 
save both fruit and labor. The fruit must be at a 
certain stage to be prepared in this way, for if too 
green, it will not peel, and if too ripe it will be too 
much softened by the hot water. After peeling, seed 
and place them in a steamer over a kettle of boiling 
water, first laying a cloth in bottom of steamer ; fill 
about half full with fruit, cover tightly, make a syrup 
in a porcelain kettle kept for fruit alone, let the fruit 
steam until it can be easily pierced with a silver fork, 
drop gently for a moment into the hot syrup, place in 
the cans, fill, cover and seal. The above recipe is fdr 
canning a few at a time, and is equally as nice for 
pears. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Fill glass jars wijth fresh whole strawberries 
sprinkled with sugar in the proportion of half pound 
sugar to a pound berries, lay covers on lightly, stand 
them in a wash boiler filled with water to within an 
inch of tops of cans ; (the water must not be more 
than milk warm when the cans are placed in it.) When 
it has boiled for fifteen minutes, draw to back of stove, 
let the steam pass off, roll the hand in a towel, lift 
out the cans, and place on a table. If the berries are 
well covered with their own juice, take a tablespoon 
and fill up the first can to the very top of the rim 
from the second, wipe the neck, rub dry and screw 
the top down firmly, observing carefully the general 
directions for canning berries. Fill another from the 
second can, and so on until all are finished. 



CANNING FRUITS. 149 

CANNED CORN. 

Miss Lida CartmeU. 

Dissolve one ounce tartaric acid in half teacup water, 
and of it take one tablespoon to every two quarts of 
sweet corn; cook it, and while boiling hot, fill the 
cans, which should be tin. When used, turn into a 
colander, rinse with cold water, add a little soda and 
sugar when you cook it, and season with butter, pep- 
per and salt. 

CANNED SWEET CORN. 

Mrs. A. I. J. 

Pick corn when milk-ripe, cut from the cob and 
scrape so as to get all the juice, place in tin cans 
and seal up air-tight ; set them in boiling water from 
one to two hours according to size of can, and next 
day punch a small hole in the top of the can to allow 
the gases to escape, and immediately re-seal, after 
which place in boiling water and let remain as long 
or longer than at first. 

CANNED TOMATOES IN STONE JUGS. 

Mrs. W. A.^. 

Wash, cut up, and put on to cook with a little salt ; 
boil till perfectly soft, strain through a colander, turn 
back to cook again, and when they come to a boiling 
heat, pour into hot one or two-gallon stone jugs, 
cork and dip in hot cement, or pour the cement over 
the cork. When cool it is a good plan to dip again, 
so as to make perfectly air-tight. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 
Use glass or stone jars. Tin is nice for one year. 



150 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

but will not do any longer, and some save their 
oyster cans in the winter and use once for this pur- 
pose. To secure them take a cloth much larger than 
size of hole, cover it with sealing wax, place on the 
can sticking it down, cover again with sealing wax, 
and if you have suceeded in making the can air-tight, 
the cloth will be drawn considerably down into the 
hole. The tomatoes should be scalded so as to ppel 
easily, cut up, all hard and decayed portions removed, 
drained in a sieve or colander, and allowed to boil a 
very few minutes, four or five at most if perfectly ripe; 
then canned and sealed tight. If they remain too 
long over the fire the seeds will impart a bitter taste, 
Never put salt in your tomatoes when you use tin 
cans, as it has a tendency to cause rust. 

CANNED WATER MELON. 

Mrs. C. T. C. 

Cut the melons, and after taking out the cores 
peel all the green part off carefully, cut the rind into 
small pieces two or three inches long, and boil until 
tender enough to pierce with a fork ; have a syrup 
made of white sugar, allowing one-half pound sugar 
to one pound fruit, skim out the melon and place in 
this syrup together with a few pieces of race ginger ; 
let cook a few minutes, put in cans and seal hot. 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 151 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 



Always select perfect fruit ; cook in porcelain, never 
in metal. Some, in making catsup, instead of boiling, 
sprinkle the tomatoes with salt and let them stand 
over night, then strain and add spices, etc., and a little 
sugar. Bottle in glass or stone, and never use tin cans 
for catsups ; keep in a cool, dry, dark place. If, on 
opening, you find a leathery mould on top, carefully 
remove every particle of it, and the catsup will not be 
injured. To prevent this moulding of catsup some 
do not fill the bottles quite full, filling up with hot 
vinegar. If there are white specks of mould all 
through the catsup it is spoilt. If, on' opening and 
using a part, you fear that the rest may sour, scald, 
and, if too thick, add vinegar. Sauces should always 
be made in a pan set in hot water, with great care, 
having your sauce pan clean if you want a delicate 
flavor, especially if the sauce" is drawn butter. 



CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Mrs. Hattie Clemmons, Asheville, N. C. 
Three dozen cucumbers and eighteen onions peeled 



152 THR BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

and chopped very fine; sprinkle over them three- 
fourths pint table salt, put the whole in a sieve and 
let drain well over night, add a teacup mustard seed, 
half teacup ground black pepper, mix well and cover 
with good cider vinegar. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Four pounds nice fully ripe currants, one and' a 
half pounds sugar, tablespoon ground cinnamon, a 
teaspoon each of salt, ground cloves and pepper, pint 
vinegar; stew currants and sugar until quite thick, 
add other ingredients and bottle for use. 

CHERRY CATSUP. 

Miss M. Louise Southwick. 
One pint cherry j uice to half or three-fourths pound 
sugar, with cloves, cinnamon, and a vei-y little cayenne , 
pepper ; boil to a thick syrup ; bottle for use. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Mrs. Col. W. P. Reid, Delaware. 

Nine pounds goosebert-ies, five pounds sugar, one 
quart vinegar, three tablespoons cinnamon, one and a 
half each allspice and cloves. The gooseberries 
should be nearly or quite ripe ; take off blossom ; 
wash them and put into a porcelain kettle, mash 
thoroughly, scald and put through the colander, add 
sugar and spices and boil fifteen minutes, and then 
add the vinegar cold ; bottle immediately before it 
gets cold. Ripe grapes prepared by same rule, make 
an excellent catsup. 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 153 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. H. C. Clarke, Kankakee, III. 

Add to a biishel ripe tomatoes boiled until soft and 
squeezed through a wire sieve, half gallon best vine- 
gar, half pint salt, two ounces cloves, quarter pound 
allspice, a half ounce cayenne pepper, three teaspoons 
black pepper, (spices whole,) five onions or garlics, 
skinned and separated in rings; mix all together and 
boil two hours ; bottle without straining. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Eraslus Byers, Minneapolis, Minn. 

One gallon skinned tomatoes, four tablespoons 
common salt, four of black pepper, two of allspice, 
three of ground mustard, one teaspoon cayenne; 
simmer slowly in one gallon cider vinegar to about 
five quarts and a half of tomatoes ; strain through a 
sieve and bottle while hot; cork the bottle and dip 
into hot sealing wax. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Mrs. H. C. E. 

Half a pint grated bread crumbs, one pint sweet 
milk, and one 'onion ; boil until the sauce is smooth, 
take out onion and stir in two spoonsful butter with 
salt and pepper ; boil once and serve with roast duck 
or any kind of game. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

C. G. & E. W. Crane, Caldwell, N. J. 
To every pound of fruit add three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and a half pint of water ; stew to- 



1 54 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

gether over a moderate but steady fire. Be careful 
to cover and not to stir the fruit, but occasionally shake 
the vessel, or apply a gentler heat if in danger of 
sticking or burning. If attention to these particulars 
be given, the berries will retain to a considerable ex- 
tent, their shape, which is desirable, and adds greatly 
to their appearance on the table. Boil from five to 
seven minutes, when they should be removed from 
the fire, turn into a deep dish, and set aside to cool. 
If to keep, they can be put up at once in air-tight 
jars. Or, for strained sauce, one and a half pounds 
of fruit should be stewed in one pint of water for ten 
or twelve minutes, or until quite soft, then strain 
through a colander or fine wire sieve, and three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar thoroughly stirred into 
the pulp thus obtained — when after cooling, it is ready' 
for use. Serve with roast turkey or game. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. M. 

Cut the heads of celery in pieces two or three inches 
long, boil till tender ; add to half a pint of cream or 
milk, the well beaten yolks of two eggs, a little salt 
a bit of butter and pepper, or a little grated nutmeg ; 
bring just to, the boiling point, pour over celfery and 
serve with roast duck. Or, chop fine two bunches 
of celery, and boil an hour ; when done have about 
one and a half pints of water in your kettle ; stir in 
two spoonsful of flour_ mixed smooth in cold water, 
boil ten minutes, add two spoonsful butter and season 
with salt and pepper. 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 155 

CURRY POWDER. 

Mrs. C. Fullington. 

An ounce of ginger, one" of mustard, one of 
pepper, three of coriander seed, three of tumeric, one- 
half ounce cardamon, quarter ounce cayenne pepper, 
quarter ounce cumin seed ; pound all fine, sift and 
cork tight. One teaspoonful of powder is sufficient 
to season anything. This is nice for boiled meats and 
stews. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. E W. H., Minneapolis, Minn. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, four ripe or green pep- 
pers, two onions, two tablespoons salt, two of sugar, 
one of cinnamon, three cups vinegar; peel tomatoes 
and onions, chop fine, and boil one and a half hours. 
This will keep any length of time. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Miss C. D. 

Rub a small cup of butter into, half a tablespoon 
flour, beating it to a cream, and, if needed, add a little 
salt; pour on it 'half a pint boiling water, stirring it 
fast, taking care not to let it quite boil, as boiling 
spoils it, making it oily and unfit for use. The boiling 
may be prevented'by placing the saucepan containing 
it, in a larger one of boiling water, covering and shak- 
ing frequently until it reaches the boiling point. A 
great variety of sauces which are excellent to eat with 
fish, poultry or boiled meats, can be made by adding 
different herbs to sweet pleasant tasting butter melted. 
Make quickly, not suffering it to boil, and serve im- 



156 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

mediately. Two hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, 
added, make a nice sauce to serve with baked fish. 

HOLLAND SAUCE. 

Put into a saucepan a teaspoon flour, two ounces 
butter, two tablespoons each of vinegar and water, 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, and salt to taste ; put 
over the fire and stir constantly until it thickens, but 
do not allow it to boil or it will curdle and require 
straining through a gravy strainer; add the juice of 
one-half lemon and serve with baked fish. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Mrs. H. C. M. 
Set a basin on the fire with half a pint of oysters, 
from which all bits of shell have been picked, and one 
pint of boiling water; let them boil three minutes, 
skim well, and then stir in half a cup of butter beaten 
to a cream, with two spoons flour ; let this corrfe to a 
boil, and serve with roasted turkey. 

ONION SAUCE. 
E H. W. 

Boil three or four white onions till tender, mince 
fine, boil one-half pint milk, add butter Jialf size of 
an egg, salt and pepper to t^ste, and stir in minced 
onion and a tablespoon of flour which has been 
moistened with milk. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Mrs. W. E. H. 
Tie a few sprigs together with a thread and throw 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 157 

them for a minute into boiling water, then cut fine, 
and add to drawn butter. 

ROMAN SAUCE. 

Miss E. T. E. 

Take one teacup of water and one teacup milk, put 
on fire to scald, and when hot stir in a tablespoon 
flour previously mixed smooth with a very little cold 
water, add three eggs well beaten and strained, season 
with salt and pepper, two" tablespoons butter and a 
little vinegar ; boil four eggs hard, slice and lay over 
the dish ; pour over sauce and serve with boiled fish. 

SALAD SAUCE. 

Mrs. A. E. Brand, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Boil two eggs three minutes ; mix with them a 
mustard spoon of prepared mustard, a little pepper 
and salt, six spoonsful drawn butter or salad oil, six 
of vinegar, one of catsup. This is excellent for cold 
meat, salad or fish. 

TO PREPARE MUSTARD. 

Mrs. Olivia S. Hinman, Battle Creek, Mich. 

One pint vinegar, boil, stir in a quarter pound 
mustard while hot, add two tablespoons sugar, one 
teaspoon salt, and one of white pepper ; let the mix- 
ture boil. 



158 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



DRINKS. 



Buy coffee in the grain .to avoid adulteration, either 
raw, or in small quantities freshly roasted. The best 
kinds are the Mocha and Java, and some prefer to mix 
the two, having roasted them separately. West India 
coffee, though of a different flavor, is often very good. 

Roast coffee with the greatest care — for here lies the 
secret of success in coffee-making — and in small qua,n- 
tities, as there is a peculiar freshness of flavor when 
newly roasted. Pick over carefully, wash and dry in 
a moderate oven, increase the heat and roast quickly 
either in the oven, or on top of the stove or range; 
in the latter case, stir constantly, and in the oven stir 
often, with a wooden spoon or ladle kept for this pur- 
pose. The coffee must be thoroughly and evenly 
roasted to a dark rich brown, not black, throughout, 
and free from any burnt grains, a few of which will 
ruin the flavor of a large quantity. It must be tender 
and brittle, to test which take a grain, place it on the 
the table, press with the thumb and if it can be 
crushed, it is done ; stir in a lump of butter while at 
is hot, or wait until about half cold, and then stir in 
a well beaten egg. This latter plan is very economi- 
cal, since your coffee will not need any further, clari- 



DRINKS. 159 

fying. Keep in a closely covered tin or earthen 
vessel. Never attempt other work while roasting coffee, 
but give it the entire attention. Grind not too fine, 
as needed, for the flavor is dissipated if it is long un- 
used after grinding even when under cover. If prop- 
erly roasted, coffee will grind into distinct, hard, and 
gritty particles, and not into a powder. " One for the 
pot " and a heaping tablespoon of ground coffee for 
each person, is the usual allowance. Mix well 
either with a part or the whole of an egg and enough 
cold water to thoroughly moisten it, place in a well 
scalded " coffee boiler," and pour in half the quantity 
of boiling water needed, allowing one pint less of 
water than .you have tablespoons of coffee. Boil 
rather fast five minutes, stirring down from the top 
and sides as it boils up, and place on back part of 
stove or range where it will just simmer for ten or 
fifteen minutes longer. When ready to serve add the 
remainder of the boiling water. Boiling coffee a great 
while makes it strong, but not so lively or agreeable. 
The National Coffee Pot is considered by many the 
best, but the " gude wife " can improvise one equally 
as desirable and much more simple. Make a sack of 
canton flannel or muslin, more than long enough 
to reach the bottom of the coffee pot, whip a wire 
around the top, place the coffee, either mixed with or 
without an egg, in the sack, pour on boiling water, 
turn down the top of sack over the nose of the coffee 
pot, securing it well so that none of the aroma can 
escape, close the lid tightly, let simmer, (not boil,) 
half an hour, raise the sack off the nose, but not out 



160 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

of coffee pot, and pour for the table ; or, a simpler 
way is to roll a cloth tightly and stop up the nose or 
spout, thus keeping in all the coffee flavor. 

" Coffee for one hundred " can be made in no way 
so good as the following : Take five pounds roasted 
coffee, grind and mix with six eggs, make small mus- 
lin sacks, and into each place a pint of coffee leaving 
room to swell ; put five gallons boiling water in a large 
coffee urn or boiler, having a faucet at the bottom ; 
put in part of the sacks and boil . two hours ; five or 
ten minutes before serving raise the lid, and add one 
or two more sacks, and if you continue serving several 
times, add fresh sacks at regular intervals, taking out 
from time to time those first put in, and filling up 
with boiling water as needed. In this way the full 
strength of the coffee is secured, and the fresh sup- 
plies impart that delicious flavor consequent on a few 
moments boiling. 

To make coffee for twenty persons, use one and a 
half pints ground coffee and one gallon of water. 

MAKING TEA. 

"Polly, put the kettle on, and vre'U a^l take Tea." 

For of all " cups that cheer " there is nothing like 
the smoking hot cup of tea, made with boiling water, 
in a thoroughly scalded tea-pot ; and if it is the good 
old fashioned green tea of " ye ancient time," you 
must just put it to draw and not to boil ; if it is gen- 
uine " English Breakfast" or best black tea, the water 
must not only be boiling hot, at the very moment of 
pouring it on, but the tea must actually boil for at 



DEINKS. 161 

least five or ten- minutes. To insure " keeping hot" 
while serving, make the simple contrivance known 
as a " bonnet " which is warranted a " sure prevent- 
ive" against that most insipid of all drinks — "a warm- 
ish cup of tea." It is merely a sack with a loose 
elastic in the bottom large enough to cover and en- 
circle the entire tea-pot. Make it with odd pieces of 
silk, satin, orcashmere,lme(J, quilted and embroidered, 
if you like ; draw this over the tea-pot as soon as the 
tea is poured into it, and it will remain piping hot for 
half an hour. One teaspoon of tea and one teacup 
of hot water is the usual allowance for each person. 
Freshly boiled soft water is the best for either tea or 
coffee. Always have a water-pot of hot water, on 
your waiter, with which to weaken each cup if de- 
sired. Serve with the best and richest cream, but, in the 
absence of this luxury, a good substitute may be 
found in boiled milk prepared as follows : place fresh 
new milk in a pan or pail, set where it will slowly 
simmer but not boil or reach the boiling point, stir 
frequently to keep the cream from separating and 
rising to the top, let simmer until it is rich, thick and 
creamy. 

COFFEE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Marion Harland. 

For six cups of coffee of fair size, one cup sweet 
cream, whipped light with a little sugar, will be needed ; 
put into each cup the desired amount of sugar, and 
about a tablespoon boiling milk ; pour the coffee over 



162 THE BUCKEYE COOfe BOOK. 

these, and lay upon the surface of the hot liquid a 
large spoonful of the frothed cream, giving a gentle 
stir to each cup before sending around. This is 
known to some as meringued coffee, and is an elegant 
French preparation of the popular drink. 

COCOA. 

Take three heaping tablespoons cocoa, mix with a 
little cold water, add one pint boiling water, boil ten 
minutes, add another pint of hot water and serve at 
once. This quantity is sufficient for three persons. 
Chocolate can be prepared in the same way. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Take six tablespoons scraped chocolate, or three of 
chocolate and three of cocoa, dissolve in a quart of 
boiling water, boil hard fifteen minutes, add one quart 
of rich milk, let scald and serve hot ; this is enough 
for six /persons. Cocoa can also be made after this 
recipe. Some boil either cocoa or chocolate only one 
minute and then serve, while others make it the day 
before using, and boil for one hour ; when cool, skim- 
off the oil, and when wanted for use, heat to the boil- 
ing point, and add the milk. In this way it is as good 
and much more wholesome. 

CIDER. 

C. T. Carson, Maple Grove Farm. 

Take good grafted fruit, press and strain juice as it 
comes from the press through a woolen cloth into a 
barrel ; let stand two or three days if cool, if warm 
not more than a day; rack once a week for four 



DRINKS. 163 

weeks, put in bottles and Cork tightly. This will 
make perfect cider. Do not put anything in it to 
preserve it, as all so called preservatives are hum- 
bugs. Lay the bottles away on their sides in saw- 
dust. 

GRANDMOTHER'S HARVEST DRINK. 

One quart of water, one tablespoon sifted ginger, 
three heaping tablespoons sugar, one half pint vine- 
gar. 

LEMONADE. 

S. A. M. 
Take six lemons, roll them well, slice thin in an 
earthen vessel, putting on them two teacups white 
sugar ; let stand fifteen minutes, add one gallon 
water and lumps of ice, pour out into pitcher and 
serve. Some add soda and stir rapidly for "sparkling 
lemonade." 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Abby G. Backus, West Killingly, Conn. 

Press the juice of lemons into a bowl, strain out 
all seeds, remove the pulp from the rind and boil in 
one pint of water for a few minutes. Strain the 
water with the juice, add a pound of sugar to a pint 
, of juice, boil ten minutes and bottle. Use one or 
two tablespoons of syrup to a glass of water. 

APPLE TEA. 
Take good sour apples, slice thin, pour on boiling 
water and let stand until cool ; pour off water, 
sweeten a little, and flavor. 



164 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ICED TEA. 

Prepare tea in the morning, making stronger and 
sweeter than usual ; strain and pour into a nice clean 
stone jug or glass bottle, set aside in the ice chest 
until ready to use. Drink from goblets without 
cream. Serve ice broken in small pieces on a platter 
nicely garnished' with well washed grape leaves. 
Iced tea may be prepared from either green or black 
alone, but it is considered an improvement to mix the 
two. 



EGGS. 165 



EGGS. 



The fresher they are the better and more whole- 
some, though new laid eggs require to be cooked 
longer than others. Eggs over a week old, will do 
to fry but not to boil. In boiling they are less likely 
to crack if dropped in water not quite to the boiling 
point. Eggs will cook soft in three minutes, hard in 
five, very hard in ten to fifteen minutes, the last to 
serve with salads, or to slice thin, (seasoned well with 
pepper and salt,) and put between thin slices of bread 
and butter. 

Put eggs in water to tell good from bad; those 
which lie on the side are good; reject those which 
stand on end as bad ; the vessel should have a 
smooth, level bottom ; or, examine each egg separately 
and look through it at the sun, or toward a lamp in 
a darkened room ; if the white looks clear, and the 
yolk can be easily distinguished, it is good ; if a dark 
spot appears in either white or yolk, it is stale; if 
heavy and dark when you look through them, or they 
gurgle when shaken gently, they are "totally de- 
praved." The best and safest plan is to break each 
egg in a saucer before using. 

To keep eggs, pack closely in salt or bran, standing 



166 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

them on the small end, or place them in a stone jar, 
and pour over them a mixture made of half a gallon 
air-slacked lime, one tablespoon cream tartar, one 
ounce of salt, and half a gallon cold water. This 
quantity will keep four and a half dozen. If the water 
settles away, add enough to cover and turn a saucer 
over the top to keep the eggs down ; or dip them in 
oil or a weak solution of gum ; this renders the 
shell impervious to air and they will keep a long 
time. A nice way to keep those wanted for table use 
is to .pour boiling water over them, repeating the 
operation several times, until the albumen is hardened ; 
when cool, pack with the small end down in salt or 
bran. Always secure the freshest eggs for packing, 
cover closely, and keep in a cool place. 

To make an omelet, beat the yolks until thick and 
creamy, then add the milk| the salt, pepper and flour 
if any is used, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth. Have the skillet as hot as can be without 
scorching butter ; put in a tablespoon of butter, pour 
in the omelet, which should at once begin to bubble 
and rise in flakes. Slip under it a thin, broad bladed 
knife, and every now and then raise it up to prevent 
burning. As soon as the underside is hard enough 
to hold well together, and the eggs begin to " set," 
fold over, shake the skillet so as to entirely free the 
omelet, then carefully slide it on a hot platter and 
serve at once. It should cook in from three to five 
minutes. To bake an omelet, place in the frying 
pan on top of stove until it begins to " set " in the 
middle, then place in a rather hot oven ; when slightly 



EGGS. 167 

browned, fold if you like, or turn a hot dish on top 
of the pan, upset the latter with a quick motion, and 
so dish the omelet with the underside uppermost. 
It should bake in from five to ten minutes. Where 
a large quantity of eggs are used, instead of making 
into one large omelet, divide and make several, 
sending each to the table as soon as done. Ham, 
chicken, and all kinds of meat omelets, are made by- 
chopping the meat fine, and placing between the folds 
before dishing. 

For a plain omelet, easily made, take three table- 
spoons milk and a pinch of salt for each egg ; beat 
the eggs lightly for three or four minutes, pour them 
into a hot pan in which a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut has just been melted, cook three or four 
minutes, fold over and serve at once. Some scald a 
little parsley, pour off the v,-?<-er, chop it, and mix 
with the omelet just before pouring into the pan. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Miss L. S. 
Put them into cold water, and when it has boiled, 
the eggs will be done, the whites being soft and di- 
gestible, as they are not when put into boiling water. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Mrs. A. R. Gould, Delaware. 

Put the eggs in a dish without breaking the shells, 
pour boiling water over them and let them stand in 
it away from the fire for from five to eight minutes ; 
this is better than boiling rapidly on the stove, as it 



168 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

cooks them through without hardening the whites 
too much. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Mrs. J. F. W. 

Butter a dish and break into it as many eggs as 
will cover the bottom, set in the oven and bake till 
the whites are cooked ; add a piece of butter, pepper 
and salt, stir in quickly and serve. 

EGGS ON TOAST. 

Mrs. L. E. Bellas. 

Cut the bread three-quarters of an inch thick, warm 
through on each side, and brown nicely ; from a dish 
of melted butter put some upon each slice with 
a spoon ; place toast in a covered dish, and set in 
the oven or where it will keep warm ; put a sauce- 
pan o£JaaJiiag,water on the stove, break in the eggs, 
let remain until whites are" stitf, take up carefully with 
a spoon and lay one on each half slice of toast ; put 
the toast thus crowned on a warm platter and send to 
table. 

EGG GEMS. 
Mrs. H. B. S. 

Mix chopped meat, bread crumbs, salt, pepper, but- 
ter, and a little milk; fill some buttered gem-pans 
with the mixture, break an egg carefully upon the top 
of each gem, sprinkle a little salt, pepper and bread 
crumbs upon each egg, and bake eight minutes ; 
serve hot. 

FRIZZLED HAM AND EGGS. 

Mrs. D. B. 
Take bits of either boiled or fried ham, chop fine, 



EGSS. 1 69 

and place in your skillet prepared with butter or beef 
drippings ; take four to six well beaten eggs, pour 
over your ham, and when heated through, season well 
with pepper and salt; stir together, and cook until 
done brown, and turn over without stirring. ' -k 

OMELET. i 

Mrs. H. B. S. '"i 

Seven eggs beaten separately, one teaspoon flour, 
one teaspoon salt, a pint of warm milk, (see directions 
for making an omelet;) this will make one large 
omelet or two small ones ; bake twenty minutes. 

CORN OMELET. 

Mrs. Frank Stahr, Lancaster, Pa. 

Take six ears corn, grate or cut the corn fine, add 
four eggs, a tablespoon of flour, a cup of milk, season 
with pepper and salt, and bake half an hour. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 
Take eight eggs, beat whites to a stiff froth, and 
after beating the yolks add two tablespoons sugar, 
pour the yolks into the beaten whites, do not Deat 
agaift, but pour all on a buttered tin plate and put in 
the oven. When it begins to rise take a spoon and 
pile in pyramid shape. The whole baking requires 
but three or four minutes. 

PUFF OMELET. 

The yolks of six eggs and the whites of three 
beaten very light, mix one tablespoon of flour into 
a teacup of cream or milk, stir into the beaten eggs, 
with salt and pepper to taste ; melt a tablespoon but- 



170 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ter in a pan ; pour into the mixture and set the pan 
into a hot oven ; when it thickens, pour over it the 
remaining whites of eggs well beaten, return it to the 
oven, and let it bake a delicate brown, slip off on a 
large plate and eat as soon as done. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Mrs. E. G. R. 
Break the eggs in hot water and boil for two min- 
utes, pour off the water, and beat the eggs until they 
are light ; season with salt, pepper and butter ; serve 
on toast, or simply in sauce dishes. 

RUMBLED EGGS. 

Mrs. C. C. Lyman, Harmar. 

Beat Up three eggs with two ounces fresh or washed 
butter, add a teaspoon of cream or fresh milk ; put in 
a sauce pan and keep stirring over the fire for five 
minutes or till it rises ; dish on toast. 



FISH. 171 



FISH. 



Before dressing fish, remove all scales, (these may- 
be loosened by pouring on hot. water,) and scrape out 
every particle of blood, entrails, etc., being careful not 
to crush the fish more than is absolutely necessary in 
cleaning. Wash thoroughly in cold water, (not allow- 
ing them to stand in it,) drain, wipe dry, and to remove 
earthy taste from fresh water fish, sprinkle with salt 
and let lie over night, or a few hours at least, before 
cooking; rinse off, wipe dry, and to completely absorb 
all the water, place in a folded napkin a short time. 

' Soak salt fish in water from twelve to twenty-four 
hours. To fry fresh fish, clean as above, cut off the 

■ head ; if a large fish, cut out the back bone, slice the 
body crosswise into five or six pieces according to 
the size ; dip in Indian meal or wheat flour, or in a 
beaten egg and then in bread crumbs, fry rather slowly 
half or three-quarters of an hour, in boiling hot lard 
or beef drippings, (never in butter,) in a thick bottomed 
skillet, taking care to place the fish skin side upper- 
most, turning when a light brown. The flavor is 
improved by adding a few pieces of salt pork or 
bacon. The back bone, if previoiisly removed, may 
be cut up and fried with other pieces, also the roe. 



172 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

In broiling fresh fish, prepare the same as for frying. 
Rub gridiron with lard or drippings, and to turn 
invert gridiron with one hand over an old platter or pan 
held in the other, then gently slip the fish back on 
the gridiron and broil the other side. All fish should 
have the skin side turned to the fire last, as it burns 
easily and the coals are less hot after using a few min- 
utes. Salt fish may be broiled in the same manner 
atter the soaking in cold water. 

To bake fish, cleanse, rub the inside well with salt, 
and stuff with a delicate dressing such as is used for 
fowls. Chopped salt pork may be used instead of 
butter in dressing. Sew up, dredge with flour, lay on 
slices of pork or bits of butter, and place on a tin 
sheet that fits loosely into the baking pan ; add half a 
pint hot water, and if it cooks away add more, taking 
care not to have too much water or the fish will boil 
instead of bake. When done, (a fish of four or five 
pounds will bake in an hour,) lift out the tin sheet, and 
slide the fish gently from it into the platter, and serve 
with a gravy made from the drippings. Instead of the 
tin sheet a wire rack may be used. 

To boil fish, fill with a rich dressing of rolled crack- 
ers seasoned with butter, pepper, salt and sage, wrap 
it in a well-floured cloth, tie closely with twine or 
sew, and place in well salted boiling water. Allow ten 
minutes to the pound for boiling, or if large, six min- 
utes will be sufficient. To try fish, pass a knife next 
to the bone, and if done the fish will separate easily, 
but if it adheres to the bone in the least, cook longer. 
Take out the moment it is done or it will become 



FISH. ns 

" woolly." If you have no fish kettle, lay the fish in a 
circle on a plate inside the cloth, to boil. 

Salt fish, after freshening, should be wrapped in a 
cloth and boiled for five minutes ; remove, lay on it 
two hard boiled eggs sliced, pour over it drawn but- 
ter, and trim with parsley leaves. 

One of the most essential things in serving fish, is 
to have everything hot, and dish quickly so that all 
may go to the table at once. Serve fresh fish with 
squash and green peas ; salt fish with beets and carrots ; 
salt pork and potatoes go with either. 

For hints on buying fish see " Marketing." 



BROOK TROUT. 

Split nearly to the tail and clean, wash and drain. 
For a dozen good sized trout, fry six slices of salt 
pork, take out when brown, put in trout, frying to a 
nice brown on all sides ; serve the pork with them. 

FISH BALLS. 
Take equal quantities of cooked fish of any kind, 
chopped fine, and mashed potato ; add a beaten egg 
and tablespoon melted butter ; mix and mash well 
with a wooden spoon ; roll the balls in flour, and fry 
them with salt pork and a little lard or beef fat. The 
whole surface of the balls should be gradually 
browned. 

CROQUETTES OF FISH. 

Mis. H. B. S. 

Take dressed fish of any kind, separate from the 



IX 



174 THE BUCKEYE COOK B(j0K. 

bones, mince with a little seasoning, one egg beaten 
with a teaspoon of flour and one of milk ; make into 
balls ; brush the outside with egg, dredge well with 
bread or cracker crumbs, and fry them to a nice 
brown. The bones, heads, tails, an onion, and an 
anchovy with a pint of water, will make the gravy. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Woodworth, Springfield, Mass. 

The best fish for chowder are haddock and striped 
bass, although any kind of fresh fish may be used. 
Cut in pieces over an inch thick and two inches 
square ; take eight good sized slices of salt pork put 
in the bottom of an iron pot and fry till crisp ; remove 
the pork, leaving the fat ; chop fine, put in the pot a 
layer of fish, a layer of split crackers and some of the 
chopped pork, black and red pepper and chopped 
onions, then another layer of fish, another of crackers 
and seasoning, and so on. Cover with water and stew 
slowly till the fish is perfectly done ; remove from the 
pot and put in dish in which you serve it, keep hot, 
and thicken the gravy with rolled cracker or flour ; 
boil the gravy up once and pour over the chowder. 
Some add to the gravy just before taking up, a little 
catsup, port wine and lemon juice, but I think it nicer 
without these. 

KATY'S CODFISH. 

Mrs. Helen M. Stevenson. 

Soak pieces of codfish several hours in cold water, 
pick it fine, and place in skillet with water ; boil a few 
minutes, pour off water and add fresh, boil again and 



PISH. 175 

drain off as before ; then add plenty of sweet milk, 
a good sized piece of butter, and a thickening made of 
a little flour, (or corn starch,) mixed with cold milk 
until smooth like cream. Stir well, and when done, 
take from the fire and add the yolks of three well 
beaten eggs ; stir quickly and serve. 

BAKED HERRING. 

Mrs. E. J. Starr. 

Take salt herring, soak over night, roll in flour and 
butter, and place in a dripping pan with a very little 
water over them ; season with pepper. 



176 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



FRUITS. 



Nothing is more tempting as a breakfast relish than 
fresh oranges, no dinner dessert is complete without its 
course of ripe fruits which are much more wholesome 
when eaten as a part of the regular meal, and no good 
housekeeper ever thinks of serving tea without 
peaches, pears, oranges, grapes, berries or other 
seasonable fruits, prepared so as best to bring out 
their luscious flavors. Fruit should be carefully- 
selected. Havana and Florida oranges are the best, 
but do not keep well, and on the whole, the Messina 
are preferable. A rough yellow skin covers the 
sweetest oranges, the smooth being more juicy and 
acid ; a greenish tinge indicates that they were picked 
unripe. The Messina lemons "November cut," are 
the best and come into market in the spring. Free- 
stone peaches with yellow meat are handsomest, 
but not always the sweetest. California pears take 
the lead for flavor, the Bartlett being the best. The 
best winter pear is the " Winter Nellis." The "Pound" 
pear is the largest, and is good cnly for cooking. 
Fine grained pears are best for eating. A pyramid of 
grapes made up of Malagas, Delawares and Concords 
makes a delicious dessert. The Malaga is the best 



FRUIT. 177 

foreign grape, and comes packed in cork dust, which 
is a non-conducter of heat and absorbs the moisture, 
and so is always in good condition. Of native grapes, 
the Delaware keeps best. In pine-apples the "Straw- 
berry " is best, while the " Sugar Loaf" ranks next, 
but they are so perishable that to keep even for a few 
days they must be cooked. Buy cocoanut cautiously 
in summer, heat being likely to sour the milk. The 
" Princess " almonds are the best variety to buy in the 
shell; of the shelled the "Jordan" is the finest 
though the " Sicily " is good. For cake or confec- 
tionery, the shelled are less expensive. In melons 
every section has its favorite varieties, any of which 
make a wholesome and luscious dessert dish ; they 
should be laid on ice for several hours before serving. 
Sliced fruits or berries are more attractive and 
palatable sprinkled with pounded ice just before 
sending to the table. 



AMBROSIA. 
J. H. S. 
Take one dozen sweet oranges, peel and slice cross- 
wise, grate a fresh cocoanut; place in fruit dish a 
layer of oranges, then a layer of cocoanut, strewing 
plentifully with pulverized sugar ; repeat until all are 
used, having cocoanut and sugar last ; serve immedi- 
ately. 

ICED CURRANTS. 

Take large bunches of ripe currants, wash and drain 



178 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

dry, dip into beaten white of eggs, put them on a 
sieve so they will not touch each other, sift powdered 
sugar thickly over them, and put in a warm place till 
dry. 

MOCK STRAWBERRIES. 

Miss C. B., Newburyport, Mass. 

Take ripe peaches and choice well-flavored apples, 
three peaches to one apple, cut in squares about the 
size of a strawberry, place in alternate layers ; sprinkle 
the top thickly with sugar, and add pounded ice ; let 
stand about two hours, mix peaches and apples thor- 
oughly, let stand an hour longer, and serve. 

PEACH PYRAMID. 

Miss E. Orissa Dolbear, Cincinnati. 

Cut a dozen peaches in halves, peel and take out 
stones, crack half the seeds and blanch the kernels ; 
make a clear boiling syrup of one pound of white 
sugar, and into it put the peaches and kernels ; boil 
very gently for ten minutes, take out half the peaches 
and boil the rest for ten minutes longer, then take out 
all the peaches and kernels ; mix with the syrup left 
in the kettle the strained juice of three lemons, and 
an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little water and 
strained ; boil up once, fill a mould half full of this 
syrup or jelly, let stand until "set," when add part of 
the peaches and a little more jelly, and when this is 
" set," add the rest of the peaches and fill up the 
mould with jelly. This makes an elegant ornament. 



GAME. 179 



GAME. 



Of game birds the woodcock out-ranks all in deli- 
cate tenderness and sweet flavor. The thigh is es- 
pecially deemed a choice tidbit. The leg is the finest 
part of the snipe, but generally the breast is the most 
juicy and nutritious part of birds. 

Birds should be carefully plucked or skinned, 
drawn, thoroughly washed, and all shot removed. 
The more plainly all kinds of game are cooked, the 
better they retain their fine flavor. They require a 
brisker fire than poultry, but take less time to cook. 
Their color, when done, should be a fine yellow 
brown ; serve on toast. 

Broiling is the favorite method of cooking game, 
though all birds are exceedingly nice roasted. To 
broil, split down the back, open and flatten the 
breast by covering with a cloth and pounding, season 
with pepper, and lay the inside first upon the gridiron, 
turn as soon as browned, and when almost done, take 
off, place on a platter, sprinkle with salt, and return to 
the gridiron. When done, place in a hot dish, butter 
both sides well, and serve at once. The time required 
is usually about twenty minutes. 

To roast, season with salt and pepper, and place a 



180 THE BUCKEYE COOK B0(»:. 

lump of butter inside, truss, skewer, and place in oven. 
The flavor is best preserved without stuffing, but they 
are very nice with a plain bread dressing, with a piece 
of salt pork or ham skewered on, the breast. A deli- 
cate way of dressing is to place inside each bird, an 
oyster dipped in the well -beaten yolk of an egg, or 
in melted butter, and then rolled in bread crumbs. 
Allow thirty minutes to roast ; longer if stuffed. 

To lard game, cut fat salt pork into thin narrow 
strips, thread a larding needle with one of the strips, 
run the needle under the skin of the bird and draw 
the pork half way through. The pieces should be 
about one inch apart. 

Pigeons should be cooked a long time as they are 
usually quite lean and tough, and they are better to 
lie in salt water half an hour or to be parboiled in it 
for 'a few moments. They are nice roasted or made 
into a pie. 

The larger birds, such as pheasants, prairie chiqk- 
ens, etc., lose a part of their wild flavor if soaked over 
night in salt water. The coarser kinds of game, such 
as geese, ducks, etc., should also lie in salt water for 
several hours, or be parboiled in it with an onion in- 
side each to absorb the rank flavor, and afterwards 
thoroughly rinsed in clear water, stuffed and vfisG* 3. 
Some lay slices of onion over them while cooking, 
and remove before serving. In cooking- wild turkeys, 
always allow plenty of butter, since the meat is neither 
very fat nor juicy. 

Squirrels should be carefully skinned and laid in 
salt water a short time before cooking ; if old, par- 



GAME. 181 

boil. They are delicious broiled, and are excellent 
cooked with thin slices of bacon. 

Venison, as in the days of good old Isaac, is 
still justly considered a "savoury dish;" the haunch, 
neck and shoulder should be roasted ; roast or broil 
the breast, and fry or broil the steaks. Venison re- 
quires more time for cooking than beefsteak. The 
hams are excellent pickled, smoked and dried, but 
they will not keep so long as other smoked meats. 



BOILED PHEASANT. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Scald and skin, cut up like common chicken, being 
careful to remove all the shot, put in hot water and 
boil until you can easily insert a fork, or until the 
meat seems about ready to separate from the bone ; 
take out and broil over a good fire, put on a platter 
and set in the stove heater ; have ready toasted bread, 
buttered and cut in pieces about two inches square, 
and put on the platter with the pheasants ; place the 
kettle with liquor in which they were boiled on the 
fire, add a small lump of butter, season with salt and 
pepper, and thicken a little with flour ; boil rapidly 
two or three minutes stirring well, pour over the 
toast and pheasant, and send at once to the table. 
Squirrels and prairie chickens are very nice when 
prepared in this way. 

PARTRIDGE PIE. 

Line a deep baking-dish with veal cutlets ; over 



182 THE BTJCRE'yE COOK BOOK. 

which place thia slices of ham and a seasoning of 
pepper and salt ; pluck, draw, wipe and quarter four 
partridge ; rub each part with a seasoning of pepper, 
salt, minced parsley and butter ; put in a baking- 
dish, pour over them a pint of strong soup-stock, 
line the edges of the dish with a light puff paste, 
cover with the same, brush with the yolk of an egg, 
bake one hour. If the paste is in danger of becoming 
too brown, cover with a thick paper. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS. 

Cut out all the shot, wash in several waters using 
some soda in the water, rinse and dry them, fill with 
dressing, sew up with cotton thread, and tie down the 
legs and wings. Place in a steamer over hot water 
and steam till done, remove to a dripping-pan, cover 
with butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour and place in the oven, basting with the 
melted butter until a nice brown ; serve with either 
apple sauce, cranberries or currant jelly. 

ROAST QUAILS. 

J. H. S. 

Pluck and dress like chickens, wash well, and rub 
both inside and out with salt and pepper; stuff with 
any good dressing, and sew up with fine thread; 
spread with butter and place in an oven with a ggod 
steady heat, turning and basting often; bake an hour. 
When about half done add a little hot water to the 
pan, and it is well to insert a dripping pan over them 
to prevent browning too much ; when done dish ; add 



GAME. 183 

to the gravy, flour and butter rubbed together, also 
water if needed, 

ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

Wash it in warm water and dry well with a cloth ; 
butter a sheet of white paper and put over the fat ; 
lay the venison in a deep baking dish, with a very 
little boiling water, and cover with either a closely 
fitting lid or a coarse paste, one-half inch thick. If 
the latter is used, a thickness or two of coarse paper 
should be laid over the paste. Cook in a moderately 
hot oven for from three to four hours, according to 
the size of the haunch, and about twenty minutes be- 
fore it is done, quicken the fire, remove the paste and 
paper, or the dish cover, dredge the joint with flour,, 
and baste well with butter until it is nicely frothed 
and of a fine delicate brown color ; garnish the knuckle 
bone with a frill of white paper, and serve with a gravy 
made from its own dripping, having removed the fat. 
Have the dishes on which the venison is served and 
the plates very hot. Always serve with currant jelly. 



184 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



ICES AND ICE CREAM. 



Ice cream intended for dinner or for tea should be 
prepared the evening before or early in the morning. 
A good general recipe for the custard is the follow- 
ing: take two quarts milk, put on three pints to boil, 
beat eight eggs, yolks and whites separately, mix the 
yolks with the remaining pint, and stir slowly into the 
boiling milk, boil two minutes, remove from stove, and 
immediately add one and a half pounds sugar, let it dis- 
solve, strain while hot through a crash towel, cool, 
and add one quart rich cream and two tablespoons 
vanilla, (or season to taste, remembering that the 
strength of the flavoring and also the sweetness is 
very much diminished by the freezing.) Set the cus- 
tard and also the whites (not beaten) in a cool place 
until needed ; about three hours before serving, begin 
the preparations for freezing. Put the ice in a coarse 
coffee sack, pound with an ax or mallet until the 
lumps are no larger than a small hickory nut; 
see that the freezer is properly set in the tub, the 
beater in and the cover secure ; place around it a layer 
of ice about three inches thick, then a layer of coarse 
salt, rock salt is best, then ice again, then salt, and so 
on until packed full, with a layer of ice last. The 



ICES AND ICE CRKAM. 185 

proportion should be about three-fourths ice and one- 
fourth salt. Pack very solid, pounding with a broom 
handle or stick, then remove the cover and pour into 
the freezer the custard, to which you have just added 
the well whipped whites, replace the cover and begin 
turning the freezer ; after ten minutes pack the ice 
down again, drain off most of the water, add more 
ice and turn again, repeating this operation several 
times until the cream is well frozen, and you can no 
longer turn the beater. (The above quantity ought to- 
freeze in half an hour ; the more pure cream used 
the longer it takes to freeze). Brush the ice and salt 
from and remove the cover, take out the beater, scrape 
the cream down from the sides of freezer, b 'at well 
several minutes with a wooden paddle, replace the 
cover, fill the hole with a cork, pour off all. the water, 
pack again with ice, using salt at the bottom but none 
at the top of tub, heap the ice on the cover, spread 
over it a piece of carpet or a thick woolen blanket^ 
and set away in a cool place until needed ; or if 
moulds are used, fill them when you remove the 
beater, packing the cream in very tightly, and place 
in ice and salt for two hours ; on removing the cream,, 
dip the moulds for an instant in warm water. 

Coffee ice cream should be thickened with arrow 
root, and almond flavoring should be prepared by 
pounding the kennels to a paste with rose water, 
using arrow root for thickening. Grate cocoanut and 
add to the cream and sugar just before freezing. The 
milk should never be heated for pine-apple, strawbei-ry 
or raspberry. creams. Berry flavors are made best by 



186 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

allowing whole berries to stand for a while well 
sprinkled with sugar, mashing, straining the juice, 
adding sugar to it and stirring into the cream. For 
a quart of cream, allow a quart of fruit and a pound 
of sugar. 

Freeze ice cream in a warm place, always being 
careful that no salt or water gets within the freezer. 
If while serving cream, it begins to melt, beat up well 
from the bottom with a long wooden paddle. Water 
ices are made from the juices of fruits, mixed with 
water, sweetened, and frozen as cream. 

The following directions for making "self-freezing 
ice cream" are from " Common Sense in the House- 
hold." After preparing the freezer as above, re- 
move the lid carefully, and with a long wooden 
ladle or flat stick beat the custard as you would bat- 
ter, steadily for five or six minutes. Replace Ihe lid, 
pack the ice and salt over it, covering it with about 
two inches of the mixture; spread above all several 
folds of blanket or carpet, and leave it untouched for 
an hour, at the end of that time remove the ice from 
above the freezer-lid, wipe off carefully and open the 
freezer. Its sides will be lined with a thick layer of 
frozen cream. Displace this with your ladle or a 
long knife, working every part of it loose ; beat up the 
custard again firmly and vigorously, until it is all a 
smooth, half-congealed paste. The perfection of the 
ice cream depends upon the thoroughness of your 
beating at this point. Put on the cover again, pack in 
more ice and salt, turn off the brine, cover the freezer 
entirely with the ice and spread over all, the carpet. 



ICES AND ICE CREAM. 187 

At the end of two or three hours more, again turn off 
brine and add fresh ice and salt, but do not open the 
freezer for two hours more. At that time you may- 
take the freezer from the ice, open it, wrap a towel 
wet in hot water about the lower part, and turn out a 
solid column of ice cream, close grained, firm, delic- 
ious. Any of the recipes for custard ice cream may 
be frozen in this way. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. G. H., Buffalo, N. Y. 
Scald one pint new milk, add by degrees two cups 
sugar and two eggs, and five tablespoons of chocolate, 
rubbed smooth in a little milk. Beat well for a mo- 
ment or two, place over the fire and heat until it 
thickens well, stirring constantly; set off, and when 
quite cold, stir in a quart of rich cream and put in 
freezer. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. Cogswell, New York. 

Three pints sweet cream, one quart new milk, one 
pint powdered sugar, the whites of two eggs beaten 
light, one tablespoon vanilla ; put in freezer till thor- 
oughly chilled through, then freeze. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. S. W. D. 

A small teacup flour to two quarts milk, boil three 
pints ; mix flour with one pint until smooth, and stir 
it in the boiling milk ; let boil from ten to fifteen min- 



188 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

utes, strain, and, when cold, add one and one-half 
pounds powdered sugar ; flavor with vanilla or lemon 
and strain through fine strainer. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 
Squeeze a dozen lemons, make the juice quite thick 
with white sugar, stir in very slowly three quarts of 
cream and freeze. Orange ice cream is prepared in the 
same way, using less sugar. 

PINE APPLE ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. L. M. T., New York City. 

Two quarts cream, two large ripe pine apples, two 
pounds powdered sugar ; slice the pine apple thin, and 
scatter the sugar between the slices ; cover and let the 
fruit steep three hours; cut or chop it up in the syrup, 
and strain through a hair sieve or double bag of 
coarse lace; beat gradually into the cream and freeze as 
rapidly as possible ; reserve a few pieces of pine apple 
unsugared, cut into square bits, and stir through the 
cream when half frozen. Peach ice cream may be 
made in the same way. 

MRS. WATSON'S ICE CREAM. 
One-half pint arrow root mixed jsmooth with milk, 
two quarts milk; boil, and when cold add two quarts 
cream, whites of six eggs, tablespoon of flavoring and 
two pounds of sugar. Freeze. 

APPLE ICE. 

Take well flavored apples, pears, peaches or quinces, 
grate, sweeten and freeze ; canned fruit may be mashed 
and prepared in the same way. 



JELLIKS AND JAMS. 18& 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 



Always make jellies in a porcelain kettle if possible, 
but brass may be used if scoured very bright and the 
fruit is removed immediately on taking from the fire. 
Use the best refined or granulated sugar, and do not 
have the fruit over ripe, especially currants andgrapes_ 

To extract the juice place fruit in kettle, adding 
just enough water to keep from burning, stir often, 
and let remain on the fire until thoroughly scalded ; or 
a better but rather slower method, is to place it in a 
stone jar, set within a kettle of tepid water, boil until 
the fruit is well softened, stirring frequently; then 
strain a small quantity at a time through a strong 
coarse flannel or cotton bag wrung out of hot water; 
let drain, and as it cools, squeeze with the hands, 
emptying and rinsing off the bag each time it is used. 
The larger fruits, such as apples and quinces, should 
be cut in pieces, cores removed if at all defective, 
water added to just cover them, and boiled gently un- 
til tender, then turned into bag and placed to drain for 
three or four hours, or over night. Make jelly in 
small quantities, not over two or three pints at a time ; 
larger quantities require longer boiling. As a gen- 
eral rule, allow equal measures juice and sugar ; boil 

12 



190 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

juice rapidly ten minutes from the first moment of 
boiling, skim, add sugar, boil ten minutes longer ; or 
spread the sugar in a large dripping pan, set in the 
oven, stir often to prevent burning, boil the juice just 
twenty minutes, add the hot sugar, let boil up once, 
and pour into jelly glasses ; some strain through the 
bag into the glasses, but this involves waste, and if 
skimming is carefully done, is not necessary. If jelly 
is not very firm, let it stand in the sun a few days, cover- 
ing with bits of window glass, or pieces' of mosquito 
netting. To insure clearness and firmness, never at- 
tempt to make jellies in damp or cloudy weather. 
Currants and berries should be made up as soon as 
picked; never let them stand over night. When 
ready to put away, cover with pieces of tissue or writ- 
ing paper, cut to fit and pressed closely upon the jelly, 
and before putting on the lid or covering of thick 
paper, brush over with the white of an egg. 



APPLE JELLY. 

Take nice tart juicy apples, prepare as "in general 
directions. Prepare blackberry jelly according to 
general directions for berries. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mrs. A. B. M. 

Carefully remove all leaves and imperfect fruit, 
but do not pick from the stem, place in a stone jar, 
and follow general directions; or, pick the currants 
off the stem, measure one pint currants and one pint 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 191 

sugar, put in the kettle on the stove, and scald well ; 
skim out currants and dry on plates ; or make into 
jam with one- third currants and two-thirds rasp- 
berries ; strain juice already sweetened, and cook as 
above. After currants are dried put in stone jars and 
cover closely. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

C. G. & E. W. Crane, Caldwell, N. J. 

Prepare juice as in general directions, add one 
pound sugar to every pint, boil and skim, test by 
dropping a little into cold water, and when it does 
not mingle with the water it is done ; before pouring 
in the jelly, rinse glasses in cold water to prevent stick- 
ing. The pulp may be sweetened and used for sauce. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

M. E. W., Madison, 

Prepare the fruit and rub through a sieve ; to every 
pound of pulp add a pound of sugar, stir well to- 
gether, boil slowly twenty minutes, then follow general 
directions ; or, prepare the juice, boil twenty minutes, 
and add one pound of sugar to one pound of juice 
after it is reduced by boiling ; then boil ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Miss Ella L. Starr. 

Three good sized lemons sliced, half a pound white 
sugar, two ounces isinglass or gelatine dissolved in 
two quarts of cold water, a stick of cinnamon and a 
little grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of three or 
four eggs, and when the gelatine is all dissolved, stir 



192 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

them well with the other ingredients ; boil five min- 
utes, strain through a flannel jelly-bag into moulds 
and set on ice, or the eggs, cinnamon and nutmeg 
may be omitted. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Mrs. M. J. W. 

Rub the quinces with a cloth until perfectly 
smooth, cut in small pieces, pack tight in your kettle, 
pour on cold water until level with the fruit, boil until 
very soft ; make a three cornered flannel bag, pour fruit 
in and hang up to drain, occasionally pressing on the 
top and sides to make the juice run more freely, 
taking care not to press hard enough to expel the 
pulp. There is not so much need of pressing a bag 
made in this shape, as the weight of the fruit in the 
larger part causes the juice to flow freely at the point. 
To a pint of juice add a pint of sugar and boil fifteen 
minutes, or until it is jelly; pour into tumblers, or 
bowls, and finish according to general directions. 
If quinces are scarce, the parings and cores of quin- 
ces with good tart apples, boiled and strained as above, 
make excellent jelly, and the quinces are saved for 
preserves. 

CRABAPPLE JELLY. 

Mrs. S. M. Guy. 

Boil the apples, mash with potato-masher and 
strain ; take one pint of sugar to a pint of juice, boil a 
pint at a time till it will drop from spoon in jelly. 
To make mce marmalade, add sugar to the pulp, 
pint for pint, boil half an hour stirring all the while. 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 193 

put into small jars and cover the top with writing 
paper. 

WILD CRABAPPLE JELLY. 

Mrs. Samuel Woods, Milford Center. 

Cook the crab apples until the skins will peel off, 
after which remove, punch out core with a goose-quill, 
and to one gallon add a gallon of cold water, let them 
soak for three days, then add one-half as much water 
as there is liquid ; to two pints of this add one and 
one-fourth pints of sugar, and boil until it is jelly. 

WINE JELLY. 

Mrs. J. A. Rea, Minneapolis. 

Dissolve one box of Cox's gelatine in one pint of 
cold water, with the juice and rind of two lemons and 
one-half ounce of stick cinnamon if you wish ; soak 
three-quarters of an hour; pour upon it three pints 
boiling water and one pint sherry wine ; add four 
coffee cups sugar, and strain through flannel into 
moulds. 



JAMS. 



In making jams, the fruit should be carefully cleaned 
and thoroughly bruised, as mashing it before cooking 
prevents it from becoming hard ; boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes before adding the sugar, as the flavor of the 
fruit is thus better preserved, (usually allowing three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit); then 
boil half an hour longer. Jams require almost con- 
stant stirring, and every housekeeper should be pro- 



194 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

vided with a small paddle with handle at right 
angles with the blade (similar to an apple butter 
"stirrer," only on a smaller scale), to be used in making 
jams and marmalades. 

To tell when any jam or marmalade is sufficiently 
cooked, take out some of it on a plate and let it cool. 
If no juice or moisture gathers about it, and it looks 
dry and glistening, it is done thoroughly. Put up in 
glass or small stone jars and secure like jellies. Keep 
jellies and jams in a cool, dry and dark place. 

CURRANT JAM. 

Mrs. J. H. S. 
Prepare fruit as above ; measure, and boil eight or 
ten minutes, add one coffee cup sugar to every pint ot 
mashed fruit, and let boil ten minutes longer ; pour in 
cans, let stand five minutes and seal ; make blackberry 
jam in same way ; or take two-thirds raspberries and 
one-third currants and prepare as above. Prepare 
gooseberries like blackberries, boiling one hour after 
putting in sugar. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Sprinkle three pounds sugar over two quarts berries, 
let them stand an hour, mash and boil twenty minutes. 



MEATS. 195 



MEATS. 



In boiling meats, inattention to the temperature of 
the water and too early application of salt, cause 
great waste. Fresh meat, to be rich and nutritious, 
should be placed in a kettle of boiling water — pure 
soft water is best — skimmed well as soon as it begins 
to boil again, and placed where it will slowly but con- 
stantly simmer. The meat should be occasionally 
turned and kept well under the water. Supply fresh 
hot water as it evaporates in boiling. The hot water 
hardens the fibrine on the outside, encasing and re- 
taining the rich juices. No salt should be added 
until the meat is nearly done, as it will extract the 
juices of the meat if added too soon. Boil gently, 
as rapid boiling hardens the fibrine, and renders the 
meat hard, tasteless, and scarcely more nutritious than 
leather. Salt meat should be put on in cold water so 
that it may freshen in cooking. Allow twenty min- 
utes to the pound for fresh, and thirty-five for salt 
meats, the time to be modified, of course, by the 
quality of the meat. A pod of red pepper in the 
water will prevent any unpleasant odor from boiling, 
in the house. 



196 THE BUCIiEYE COOK BOOK. 

Dash over roasts with cold water, wash quickly 
and wipe dry. English cooks never wash beef, but 
wipe with a clean towel wrung out of cold water. 
Place in the dripping-pan with bony side up, flour 
well, put one pint hot water in pan, adding more when 
needed, and set in a rather brisk oven; afterward grad. 
uate to a moderate heat. Baste frequently, turning the 
pan often so that the parts may roast equally, and 
when about half done, flour again, salt, turn over and 
flour the other side, and about half an hour before 
serving, season with salt and pepper. Many roast 
meat on a grate placed in the dripping-pan, adding 
but little water at a time, (when there is too much the 
meat is steamed instead of roasting and the gravy 
will not become brown). In roasting all meats, suc- 
cess depends upon flouring thoroughly, basting fre- 
quently, turning often so as to prevent burning, and 
carefully regulating the heat of the oven. Allow 
flfteen to twenty-five minutes to the pound in roast- 
ing, according as it is to be rare or well done, and tak- 
into consideration the quality of the meat. Roasts 
prepared with dressing require more time. In roast- 
ing meats many think it nicer not to add any water 
until the meat has been in the oven about half an 
hour, or until it begins to brown. 

Broiling is a far more wholesome method of cook- 
ing meats than frying. Tough steak is made more 
tender by pounding or hacking with a dull knife, but 
some of the juices are lost by the operation. Trim 
off all superfluous fat but never wash a freshly cut 
steak. Place the steak on a hot, well-greased grid- 



MKATS. 197 

iron, turn often so that the outside may be seared at 
once ; when done, which will require from five to ten 
minutes, dish on a hot platter, season with salt and 
pepper and bits of butter, cover with a hot platter and 
serve at once. A small pair of tongs are best to turn 
steaks, as piercing with a fork frees the juices. If 
fat drips on the coals below, the blaze may be extin- 
guished by sprinkling with salt, always withdrawing 
the gridiron to prevent the steak from acquiring a 
smoky flavor. Always have a brisk fire whether you 
cook in a patent broiler directly over the fire, or on a 
gridiron over a bed of live coals. Broiling steak is 
the very last thing to be done in getting breakfast or 
dinner ; every other dish should be ready for the 
table, so that this may have the cook's undivided at- 
tention. A steel gridiron with slender bars is best, as 
the common broad flat iron bars fry. and scorch the 
meat, imparting a disagreeable flavor. Never season 
with salt while cooking. 

To thaw frozen meat, place in a warm room over 
night, or lay it early in the morning in cold water. 
If cooked before it is entirely thawed it will be 
tough. 

Beef in boiling loses rather more'than one-quarter; 
in roasting it loses one-third ; legs of mutton lose 
one-fifth in boiling and one third in roasting, and a 
loin of mutton in roasting loses rather more than one- 
third. It is more economical, then, to boil than to 
roast meat ; and whether roasted or boiled, from one- 
fifth to one-third of its whole weight is lost. 



198 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Lay a thick tender steak upon a gridiron well 
greased with butter or beef suet over hot coals ; when 
done on one side have ready the platter warmed, with 
a little butter on it ; lay the steak upon the platter 
with the cooked side down so that the juices which 
have gathered may run on the platter, but do not press 
the meat ; lay the steak again on gridiron quickly and 
cook the other side ; when done to your liking, put 
again on platter, spread lightly with butter, place 
where it will keep warm (over boiling steam is best) 
for a few moments, but do not let butter become oily. 
Serve on hot plates. 

FRIED BEEFSTEAK. 
If you have not the means to broil, the next best 
method is to heat the frying-pan very hot, put in 
steak previously hacked, turn quickly over and over 
several times so as to sear the outside and retain the 
juices; when done transfer to a hot platter, salt, pepper 
and put over bits of butter ; pile the steaks one on top 
of another, and cover with a hot platter. This 
way of frying is both healthful and delicate. 
Or, heat the skillet, trim off the fat from the 
steak, cut in small bits, and place to fry; mean- 
while pound steak, draw the bits of suet to 
one side and put in the steak, turn quickly over sev- 
eral times so as to sear the outside, take out on a hot 
platter previously prepared with salt and pepper, 
dredge well, return to skillet, repeating the operation 



MEATS. 19& 

until the steak is done ; dish on a hot platter, covering 
with another platter, and place where it will keep 
hot while you make the gravy. Place a table- 
spoon dry flour in the skillet, being sure to 
have the fat boiling hot, stir until brown and 
free from lumps ; the bits of suet may be 
left in, drawing them to one side until you brown 
the flour ; pour in about half a pint boiling water (milk 
or cream is better), stir well, season with pepper and 
salt and serve in a gravy tureen. Spread bits of butter 
over your steak and send to table at once. This is 
more economical, but not so healthy as broiling. 

BEEFSTEAK TOAST. 

Mrs. John Gortner, Goshen, Ind. 

Chop cold steak very fine, cook in a little water, 
put in cream or milk, thicken, season with butter, 
salt and pepper; pour over slices of toast which have 
been toasted slowly. Prepare boiled ham in the same 
way, adding the yolk of an egg. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS. 

Mrs. Rettie Ziegler, Columbus. 

Fry brown four slices of breakfast bacon, take out 
bacon and put in six' onions sliced thin, fry about ten 
minutes stirring constantly, take out all except a thin 
layer and upon it lay a slice of steak, and then a 
layer of onions, then steak, covering thick with 
onions. Dredge each layer with pepper, salt and- 
flour ; pour over this one cup boiling water, cover 
tight and simmer half an hour. When you dish. 



200 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

place the steak in the centre of the dish, and heap 
the onions around it. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Mrs., S. H. J. 

If very salt let soak over night, but if young beef 
and properly corned this is not necessary ; pour cold 
water over it after washing off the salt, letting it be 
well covered. The rule is tvverity-five minutes to a 
pound for boiling meats, but corned beef should be 
placed on a part of the stove or range where it will 
simmer, not boil, uninterruptedly from four to six 
hours, according to the size of the piece ; if to be 
served cold, let the meat remain in the liquor until 
cold. It is a good plan to let tough beef remain in 
the liquor until the next day, and bring to the boiling 
point just before serving. Simmer a brisket or plate 
piece until the bones are easily removed, fold over, 
forming a square or oblong piece ; place sufficient 
weight on top to press the parts closely together, and 
set where it will become cold. This gives a firm solid 
piece to cut in slices, and is a delightful relish. Boil 
liquor down, remove the fat and save to pour over 
finely minced scraps and pieces of beef; season with 
pepper or sweet herbs ; press the meat firmly into a 
mold and pour over the liquor, lay over it a close cover, 
with a weight upon it. When turned from the mold, 
garnish with sprigs of parsley or celery, and serve with 
fancy pickles or French mustard. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Mrs. Wm. Lee. 

Take about five or six pounds of the round of beef, 



MKATS. 201 

gash it through at intervals of an inch to receive strips 
of salt pork half an inch wide, tie it securely by 
winding a string around and lengthwise; put it into 
a large pot with a plate in the bottom to prevent 
adhering, pour in a quart of water in which are salt, 
pepper, cloves, cinnamon and allspice ; keep the pot 
closed, and when the beef is taken out, add a little 
water and flour to make a gravy. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE. 

M. J. W. 

Put pot on the fire with water to cover the tongue, 
wash clean, put in the pot with a pint of salt ; if the 
water boils away, add more so as to keep the tongue 
nearly covered until done ; boil until you can pierce 
easily with a fork, take out, and, if needed for present 
use, take off the skin and set away to cool ; if to be 
kept some days, do not peel until wanted for table. 
The same amount of salt will do for three tongues if 
your pot is large enough to hold them, always remem- 
bering to keep sufficient water in the kettle to cover 
while boiling. Soak salt tongue over night and cook 
in same way — without salt. 

RAGOUT BEEF. 

Mrs. D. W. R., Washington City. 

For six pounds of the round take half dozen ripe 
tomatoes, cut up with two or three onions in a vessel 
with a tight cover, add half a dozen cloves, a stick of 
cinnamon, and a little whole black pepper ; cut gashes 
in the meat, and stuff them with half pound of fat salt 
pork, cut into square bits ; place the meat on the other 



202 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ingredients, and pour over half a cup of vinegar and a 
cup of water ; cover tightly and bake in a moderate 
oven ; cook slowly four or five hours, and when 
about half done salt to taste- When done, take out 
the meat, strain the gravy through a colander, and 
thicken with flour. 

ROAST MEAT WITH PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. T. Carson. 

Never wash the meat, but if necessary wipe with a 
damp cloth, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour; if 
not fat, put three or four small pieces of butter the size 
of a hickory nut on it ; put in the dripping pan, letting 
it rest on a wire frame or some small sticks to keep 
it from the pan ; no water is needed ; baste and turn 
often, baking from fifteen to twenty minutes for every 
pound. Make a Yorkshire pudding to eat like veg- 
etables with the roast as follows : For every pint of 
milk take three eggs, three cups of flour and a pinch 
of salt; stir to a smooth batter and pour into the drip- 
ping pan, under the meat, half an hour before it is 
done. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Slice smoked beef, pour on boiling water to freshen, 
pour off the water and frizzle the beef in butter. A 
nice dressing can be made by adding milk and flour ; 
stir well while cooking, and just before serving add 
the yolk of an egg ; cold boiled or baked beef can be 
sliced and dressed in the same way, having been 
fried brown first. 



JIEATS. 203 

FRIED LIVER. 

Cut in thin slices and place on a platter, pour on 
boiling water and immediately pour it off, thus seal- 
ing the outside and taking away the unpleasant fla- 
vor, and making it much more palatable ; have ready 
some crackers or dried bread crumbs rolled fine and 
nicely seasoned with pepper and salt ; have ready in 
skillet on the' stove some hot lard or beef drippings, 
or both together, dredge the liver with the rolled 
cracker, and put in the skillet, placing the tin cover 
on ; fry slowly until both sides are dark brown, and 
the liver is thoroughly cooked, which will take about 
a quarter of an hour. 

TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

One pint flour, one egg wet with milk, a little salt ; 
grease dish well with butter, put in lamb chops, add a 
little water with pepper and salt, pour batter over it 
and bake one hour. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Season with salt and pepper, cover closely and fry 
for a few moments, dip each chop in cracker crumbs 
and eggs, and fry again ; or put in oven in a dripping 
pan with a little water and melted butter, baste fre- 
quently and roast till they are brown. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put mutton in boiling v.'ater with a small piece of 
pork, and boil, allowing from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes for each pound of meat ; make a sauce of drawn 
butter, putting in hard boiled eggs sliced, and capers. 



204 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Rub the mutton with a little butter, pepper, salt, 
and, if you choose, cloves and allspice ; put it in the 
dripping pan in the oven, basting it frequently, allow- 
ing quarter of an hour for each pound of mutton ; 
thicken the gravy with flour and water, season with 
spices and catsup, or with wine and currant jelly. 

FRICATELLI. 

Mrs. W. F. W. 
Chop raw fresh pork very fine, add a little salt, 
plenty of pepper, and two small onions chopped fine, 
half as much bread as meat, soaked until soft, two 
eggs ; mix well together, make into oblong patties, 
and fry like oysters. These are nice for breakfast ; if 
used for tea serve with sliced lemon. 

BOILED HAM. 

Wash in quite warm water, scrape clean, (some 
have a coarse hair brush on purpose for cleaning 
hams,) put in a thoroughly cleansed boiler, in cold 
water enough to cover ; boil steadily for five hours 
(if the ham weighs twelve pounds), take up and put 
into a baking-pan to skin ; dip the hands in cold 
water, take the skin between the fingers and peel as 
you would an orange ; set in a moderate oven — plac- 
ing the lean side of the ham downwards, and if you 
like, sift over pounded or rolled crackers; bake one 
hour. The baking brings out a great quantity of fat 
and leaves the meat much more delicate. In warm 
weather it will keep in a dry cool place a long time; 



MEATS. 205 

if there is a tendency to mould, set it a little while 
into the oven again ; or, after the ham is boiled tender, 
cover with the white of a raw egg and sprinkle sugar 
or bread crumbs over it, place in the oven and brown; 
or it is delicious covered with a regular cake icing and 
browned. The nicest portion of a boiled ham may be 
served in slices, the ragged parts and odds and ends 
chopped fine for sandwiches, or by adding three eggs 
to one pint of chopped ham, a delicious omelet may 
be made. The bones should be put in a soup kettle ; 
the rind and fat rendered and strained, and if not too 
strong, used for frying eggs or potatoes. If the ham is 
very salt, it should lie in water over night 

BROILED HAM. 

Mrs. A. E. Brand, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Cut the ham in slices of medium thickness, place 
on a hot gridiron, and broil until the fat readily flows 
out and the meat is slightly browned, take from the 
gridiron with a knife and fork, and drop into a pan of 
cold water, then return again to the gridiron, repeat 
several times and the ham is done; place in a hot 
platter, add a few lumps of butter and serve at once. 
If too fat trim off a part ; it is almost impossible to 
broil the fat part without burning, but this does not 
impair the taste. Pickled pork and breakfast bacon 
are broiled in the same way. 

DELICIOUS FRIED HAM. 

Mrs. J. F. Woods, Milford Center. 

Place the slices in boiling water and cook till tender, 
put in frying pan and brown, and dish on a platter, 



206 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

then fry some eggs and instead of turning, drip gravy 
over them till done, take up carefully and lay on slices 
of ham. This is a tempting dish, and if nicely pre- 
pared, quite ornamental. 

MIXED SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. E. Byers, Minneapolis, Minn. 
Chop fine cold ham, tongue and chicken ; mix with 
one pint of the meat half a cup melted butter, one 
tablespoon salad oil, one of mustard if desired, the 
yolk of a beaten egg, and a little pepper ; spread on 
bread cut thin and buttered. Ham alone may be pre- 
pared in this way. 

SPARE-RIB POTPIE. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Cut the spare-ribs once across and then in strips 
three or four inches wide, put on in kettle with hot 
water enough to cover, stew until tender, season with 
salt and pepper, turn out of kettle, replace a layer of 
spare-ribs in the bottom, season again and add a layer 
of peeled potatoes (quartered if large), and some bits 
of butter, some small squares of good baking powder 
dough rolled quite thin, then another layer of spare- 
ribs, and so on until the kettle is two-thirds full, leav- 
ing the squarqs of crust for the last layer ; then add 
the liquor "in which the spare-ribs were boiled, and 
hot water if needed, cover, boil half to three-quarters 
of an hour, being careful to add hot water so as not 
to let it boil dry. The above can be made of light 
biscuit dough, without egg or sugar. Roll thin, cut 
out, let rise, and use for pie, remembering to have 



MEATS. 207 

plenty of water in the kettle, so that when the pie' is 
made and the cover on, it need not be removed until 
dished. Always warm over 'all pot-pie in the dripping 
pan set in the oven. 

PIGS FEET SAUCE. 

Take off the horny parts of feet and toes, scrape, 
clean and wash thoroughly, and if needed, singe off 
the hairs, place in a kettle with plenty of water, boil, 
skim, pour off water and add fresh, and boil until the 
bones will pull out easily ; do not bone, but pack in a 
stone jar with pepper and salt sprinkled between each 
layer ; mix some good cider vinegar with the liquor 
in which feet were boiled, using two-thirds vinegar to 
one third liquor, and fill up jar. When wanted for 
the table, take out a sufificient quantity, put in a hot 
skillet, add more vinegar, salt and pepper if needed ; 
boil until thoroughly heated, stir in a smooth thicken- 
ing of flour and water, and boil until flour is cooked ; 
serve hot as a nice breakfast dish ; or, when the feet 
have boiled until perfectly tender, remove the bones 
and pack in stone jar as above. Slice down cold, 
when wanted for use. 

PORK HEAD CHEESE. 

Mrs. M. J. Gould, Delaware. 

Take one head and boil until the bones 'can be taken 
out, chop fine, season to taste with salt, pepper and 
sage, pack ip a crock and put a weight on it. 

FRIED SALT PORK. 
Cut in rather thin slices and freshen by letting lie 



208 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

an hour or two in cold water or milk and water, roll, 
in flour and fry till crisp ; if you are in a hurry, pour 
boiling water on the slices, let stand a few minutes, 
drain, roll in flour and fry as before ; drain off most 
of the grease from the frying pan, stir in while hot 
one or two spoonsful of flour, about one-half pint of 
new milk, and a little pepper, and salt if not salt 
enough from the meat, let boil and pour into your 
gravy dish ; this makes a nice white gravy when 
properly made. 

YANKEE PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over carefully a quart of beans and let, them 
soak over night ; in the morning wash and drain in 
another water, put on to boil in cold water with half 
a teaspoon of soda, boil thirty minutes and then put 
them in an earthen pot with two tablespoons of mo- 
lasses ; when half the beans are in the pot, put in 
the dish half or three-fourths of a pound of well 
washed salt pork, with the rind cut in slices ; cover 
all with hot water and bake six hours or longer^you 
cannot bake too long. Keep covered so that they 
will not burn on the top. 

SAUSAGE. 

Charles Phellis, jr. 

Forty pounds of meat, one pound salt, one-haif 
pint of sage and three and one-half ounces pepper ; 
scatter over the meat before grinding. "" 

CANNED SAUSAGE OR TENDERLOIN. 
Make the sausage in small cakes and fry until done, 



MEATS. 209 

fill the can up with the cooked cakes, pour boiling 
lard over the top and seal the same as fruit; cut the 
tenderloin in squares, fry done and can the same way. 

FRIED VEAL CUTLETS. 
Take half pint of milk, a well beaten egg, and flour 
enough to make a batter ; fry the veal brown in sweet 
lard or beef drippings, then dip it in the batter and 
fry again till brown, drop some spoonfuls of batter in 
the hot lard after the veal is taken up, and serve them 
on top of the^meat ; put a little flour paste in the 
gravy with salt and pepper, let it come to a boil and 
pour it over the whole ; the veal should be cut thin 
and cooked nearly an hour. Cracker crumbs and egg 
may be used instead of batter, but the skillet should 
then be kept covered, and the veal cooked slowly for 
half an hour over a moderate fire. 

PATE DE VEAU. 

Mrs. Gen. Mitchell, Columbus. 
Three and a half pounds leg of veal, fat and lean 
chopped fine, six or eight small crackers rolled fine, 
two eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, one table 
spoon salt, one of pepper, one nutmeg, a slice of 
salt pork chopped fine, or if preferred, a little more 
salt or butter; work all together in the form of a 
loaf, put bits of butter on top, grate bread crumbs 
over it, put into dripping pan and baste often ; bake 
two hours and slice when cold. 

ROAST LOIN OF VEAL. 

Mrs. W. G. Hillock, New Castle, Ind. 
Wash and rub thoroughly with salt and pepper, 



210 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

leaving in the kidney, around which put plenty of salt ; 
roll up, let stand two hours ; in the meantime make 
dressing of bread crumbs, salt and pepper, and 
chopped parsley or thyme moistened with a little hot 
water and butter, — some prefer chopped salt pork, 
also add an egg. Unroll the veal, put the dressing 
well around the kidney, fold, and secure well with 
several yards white cotton twine, covering the meat in 
all directions; place in the dripping-pan with the 
thick side down, put to bake in a rather hot oven, 
graduating it to moderate heat afterwards ; in half an 
hour add a little hot water to the pan, baste often, in 
an other half hour turn over the roast, and when 
nearly done, dredge lightly with flour, and baste with 
melted butter. A four pound roast thus prepared 
will bake thoroughly tender in about two hours ; be- 
fore serving, carefully remove the twine. To make 
the gravy, if there is too much fat in the drippings 
skim off, dredge some flour in the pan,, stir until it 
browns, add some hot water if necessary, boil a few 
moments and serve in your gravy boat. This roast 
is very nice to slice down cold for Sunday dinners. 
Serve with green peas and lemon jelly. 

VEAL STEW. 

, Kate Thompson, Millersburg, Ky. 

Take two and a half pounds of the breast of veal, 
boil one hour in water enough to cover, add a dozen 
potatoes, and cook half an hour ; before taking off 
the stove, add one pint of milk and flour enough to 
thicken ; season to taste. If you like, you may make 



MEATS. 211 

a crust as for chicken pie, bake in two pie-pans ; 
place one of the crusts on the platter, pour over the 
stew, and place the other on top. 

VEAL SWEETBREAD. 
Slice, put in cold water, drain, and place in skillet 
prepared with hot drippings ; when brown on under 
side then turn ; make a stiff batter of two eggs, half 
pint milk, flour to thicken, and salt to taste, and into 
it dip each slice, return to the skillet and fry brown 
over a moderate fire. 



212 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



OYSTERS. 



The season for oysters is from August to May, and 
during that time they are a very nutritious and easily 
digested article of food. When fresh the shell is al- 
ways firmly closed ; if opened the oyster is dead and 
unfit for use. When in cans the dealer will have 
to be trusted as to freshness. Small-shelled oysters 
are finest in flavor. Oysters should always be kept 
in a cool place. When preparing them for cooking 
be careful to remove all bits of shell. Do not salt 
stewed oysters till just before they are removed from 
the fire, otherwise they will shrivel up and be hard. 
In frying, a little baking powder, put into the 
cracker dust, greatly improves them. They should 
always be served immediately after cooking. Oysters 
cooked in the shell retain their flavor best. 



ESCAlOPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. J. Gortner, Goshen, Ind. 

Mix crushed cracker and dry bread crumbs in 
squal proportions, or use all crackers ; drain the liquor 
from one quart of oysters ; butter a deep dish or pan 
and cover the bottom with the bread ' crumbs and 
irackers, put in a layer of oysters seasoned with salt 



OYSTERS. 213 

and pepper and bits of butter in plenty, then a layer 
of crumbs, th^i oysters, and so on until dish is full, 
finishing with the cracker and crumbs covered with 
bits of butter ; pour over the whole the oyster liquor 
added to one pint of boiling water (and skimmed if 
necessary), place in a hot oven, bake half an hour, add 
another pint of hot water, or half pint of water and 
half pint of milk, in which a small lump of butter has 
been melted ; bake another half hour, and to prevent 
browning too much, cover with a tin or sheet-iron lid. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take two parts rolled crackers and one part corn 
meal, mix well, roll the oysters in it, and fry in equal 
parts butter and lard. Season with salt and pepper. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Drain off liquor, boil, skim, and to a cupful add a 
cup of milk, two or three eggs, salt and pepper, and 
flour enough to make a rather thick batter. Have 
hot lard or-beef drippings in a skillet ready, drop the 
batter into it with a large spoon, taking up one oyster 
for each spoonful. The oysters must be large and 
plump, 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Drain dry, make a batter of soiir milk, eggs and 
soda, stir pretty thick with flour ; roll each oyster in 
the batter until well covered and fry in butter. 

OYSTER. PATTIES. 
Pour oysters and liquor (free from all bits of shell) 
into a pan of rolled cracker ; mix well and let stand 



214 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

fifteen minutes, season with salt and pepper, mould 
into small cakes with one or two oysters in each, roll 
in dry cracker until well incrusted. Fry to a nice 
brown in hot lard and butter or beef drippings. 
Serve hot and keep in a covered dish. This is a good 
way to use small oysters. 

OYSTER SHORT CAKE. 

One quart flour, three tablespoons baking powder, 
one tablespoon butter, a pinch of salt, and _ enough 
sweet milk to moisten well ; roll about an inch thick 
and bake on tin pie plates quickly. While baking, 
take one quart of oysters and a half cup of water and 
put on the stove ; then take half a cup milk and the 
same of butter, mixed with a tablespoon of flour, and 
a little salt and pepper ; add all together, and boil at 
once. When the cakes are done, split open and 
spread the oysters between pieces and some on the top. 
'Put the oysters that are left in a gravy dish, and re- 
plenish when needed. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Mrs. C. Beck. 

Take a pie tin about an inch deep and line with or- 
dinary pie-crust, spread on a layer of oysters, season 
with salt and pepper, cut some of the crust in small 
squares and lay around on- the oysters, add another 
layer of oysters seasoning as before, pour on some of 
the oyster liquor, and cover with a crust having a 
good opening in the ^center to allow the steam to es- 
cape so that it will not boil out. One pint of oysters 
will make this pie. 



PASTRY. 215 



PASTRY. 



Use the best washed butter or lard ; the propor- 
tions for a .rich paste are a scant pound of 
butter or lard to a heaping quart of sifted flour 
and a teaspoon salt, and some add one tablespoon pow- 
dered sugar ; mix in a cool temperature, handle as 
lightly and as little as possible, chop a large spoonful 
of the shortening into a fourth part of the flour, and 
with knife or wooden spoon, and cold or ice water, 
make as soft a dough as can easily be handled ; dredge 
with flour, transfer dough to a marble slab or hard 
wood board, roll thin, cover the surface with thin 
slices of butter and lard, dredge over a layer of flour,, 
double over, and with your bread-pin roll out again 
until as thin as before, repeating the process several 
times ; after the last time, instead of rolling up, fold 
it once or twice, and cut the pieces for use from the 
edge to keep the layers of shortening as near horizon- 
tal as possible, and to prevent mixing them up as is 
done in moulding or rolling. This process makes 
flaky and delicious paste. Never fill pies until just 
before putting them in the oven. Always use tin pie- 
pans, since in earthen pans the under crust is not 
likely to be well baked. Just before putting On the 



216 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

upper crust, wet the rim of the lower with a thick 
paste of flour and water, and press the two crusts 
firmly together ; this will prevent that bane of all 
pastry cooks — a bursted pie. Bake in a moderate 
oven, having as good a body of heat at the bottom 
as at the top of oven, or the lower crust will be 
clammy and raw. 

It is proper to observe that very nice pastry for family 
use may be made, by reducing the quantity of short- 
ening to even so little as a half pound to a quart of 
flour, especially when children or dyspeptics are to be 
considered. 

In warm weather, when not ready to bake immedi- 
ately after making up your pastry, keep it in the ice- 
chest until wanted, and in any event it is nicer to let it 
thus remain for one or two hours.. 

Say to your pastry, "keep cool," to your oven "do 
it brown." 

To prevent the juice of pies from soaking into the 
under crust, beat an egg well, and with a bit of cloth 
dipped into the egg rub over the crust before filling 
the pies. 

For a more wholesome pie-crust shortening, boil 
, beans or potatoes until soft, make into a broth, work 
through a colander, mix as much into the flour 
as can be done and preserve sufficient tenacity in the 
dough. Knead moderately stiff'and roll a little thicker 
than crust shortened with lard. 

The virtues and vices of mince pies have served to 
point many a hygienic moral, but while it is quite true 
that the mince pie is not strictly hygienic, it is 



PASTRY. 217 

not an every-day dish. The mince pie is one of the 
few articles of food that have come down to us from a 
remote period, and still has the flavor of old associa- 
tions and the solid respectability which belongs to 
centuries of history and tradition. It is less to be 
feared than many apparently simple forms of highly 
concentrated food, such as butter and sugar, and often 
a piece of common pound-cake will produce a bigger 
"nightmare'' than a piece of the richest mince pie". 
Mince pie is not the real thing, if it is not rich, and 
it is the deterioration of mince pies, and the fact that 
they are left now-a-days, like almost everything else, 
to servants, who do not even know how to properly 
boil a piece of beef, that they have been brought into 
disrepute. Their preparation should therefore be 
confided to no careless or unworthy hands, but every 
ingredient should be thoughtfully provided and deli- 
cately prepared, and the whole put together and 
blended with the skill of an artist, and the precision 
of a mechanic. Tact, wisdom, judgment, knowledge 
and experience all go into the proper construction of 
a genuine mince pie, to say nothing of kindness of heart 
and liberality of disposition. 



AUNTY PHELPS' PIE CRUST. 

To one pint of sifted flour, add one even teaspoon 
baking powder, and sweet cream enough to wet the 
flour, leaving crust a little stiff. This is enough for 
two pies. 



218 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

APPLE PIE. 

Line your pan with crust made a little thicker than 
for custard pie ; pare and quarter three or four nice 
tart apples and spread them around on your crust ; 
mix one tablespoon flour, two teaspoons essence of 
lemon, and three or four tablespoons water together,, 
and pour over the apple, and sugar to taste ; serve ', 
warm with sweetened milk or cream ; cinnamon is 
good in place of essence of lemon. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

Pare, slice, stew and sweeten ripe, tart and juicy 
apples, mash and season with nutmeg (if you like 
stew lemon peel with it for flavor), fill crust and bake 
till done; spread over the apple a thick meringue, 
made by whipping to froth whites of three eggs for 
each pie, sweetened with tablespoon powdered sugar 
for each egg ; flavor with vanilla, beat until it will 
stand alone and cover pie three quarters inch thick ; 
if too thin add a little corn starch. Set back in a 
quick oven till well "set," and eat cold. In their season 
substitute peaches for apples, or to make it richer,- 
after mashing add two eggs and one-fourth cup of 
butter for each pie, and finish as above. 

DRIED APPLE PIE. - 

Put apples in warm water and soak over night ; in 
the morning chop up, stew a few moments in a small 
amount of water, and while cooking add a sliced 
lemon, and sugar to taste ; cook half an hour. 



PASTRY. 219 

SLICED APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. D". Buxton. 

Line pie-pan with crust, sprinkle with sugar, fill 
with tart apples sliced very thin, sprinkle sugar and a 
very little cinnamon over them, add a few small bits 
of butter, and a tablespoon water ; dredge in some 
flour, cover with the top crugt, and bake one-half to 
three-quarters of an hpur ; allow four or five table- 
spoons sugar to one pie. Or, line pans with crust, 
fill with sliced apples, put on top crust and bake ; 
take off top crust, put in sugar, bits of butter and 
seasoning, replace crust and serve warm. It is delic- 
ious with sweetened cream. 



CIEAM PIE. 

Mr.?. J. F. Woods, Milford Centre. 

. Take'one pint sweet milk, three eggs, small teacup 
W sugar, (some only use one tablespoon,) two table- 
spoons corn starch ; beat yolks, sugar and starch 
together, let the milk come to a boil, and stir in the 
mixture, adding a teaspoon of butter and a pinch of 
salt. Bake your crust, fill it with the custard, bake, 
then spread on your whites (previously beaten to a 
stiff" froth with two tablespoons sugar) and brown in 
a quick oven. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Carrier. 

Put on a pint of milk to boil, break two eggs into 
a bowl, add one cup white sugar, one-half cup flour, 
and after beating well stir into the milk just as it 
commences ^boil, keep stirring one way till it thick- 



220 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ens ; flavor with lemon or anything you choose. 
Before making the'cream, make a paste for three pies, 
roll out and cover the plates, roll out and cover a 
second time when baked and quite warm, separate 
the edges with a knife, lift the upper crust and fill in 
the cream. 

CRUMB PIE. 

Miss Sylvia J. Courter. 

Take one teacup bread crumbs, soak half an hour, 
make crust same as for other pies ; when soaked add 
three tablespoons sugar, half a teaspoon butter, half a 
cup of water, a little vinegar, and nutmeg to suit the 
taste ; bake with two crusts. 

COCOANUT WE. 

Miss N. B. Brown, Washington City. 

One pint milk, cocoanut, one teacup sugar, threi 
eggs ; grate cocoanut, mix with the yolks of the eggs 
and sugar, stir in the milk filling the pan even full, 
and bake. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth 
stirring in three tablespoons pulverized sugar, pour 
over the pie and bake to a light brown. If prepared 
cocoanut is used, one heaping teacup is required. 

COMBINATION PIE. 

Miss Mary Collins, Urbana. 

Make a bottom crust, filLwith ripe grapes or cran- 
berries, sweeten well and dredge over a little flqur; 
bake, and when done, pour over a sponge batter 
made as follows : Three eggs, one cud sugar, one 
cup flour, two tablespoons water, tjfflb teaspoons 



PASTRY. 221 

baking powder ; return to oven and brown slightly. 
This is sufficient for two pies. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Mrs. IC. S. Long. 

For a' large pie^itake three eggs, one pint of milk 
and half tablespoon of corn-starch; flavor to suit the 
taste. 

LEMON PIE. 
Mrs. W. E. Scobey. 
One lemon grated, one cup sugar, the yolks of three 
eggs, small piece butter, three tablespoons milk, one 
teaspoon corn-starch ; beat all together, and bake in a 
rich .crust ; beat the whites very light, with a little 
sugar, aild place on the pie when done, then brown 
in the oven. 

LEMON PIE. 
Mrs. H. B. S. 
One tablespoon corn-starch, one cup boiling water, 
into which stir a lump of butter the size of a walnut, 
let it cool, add one cup sugar, grate the rind and 
juice of one lemon and add one egg- .cover with 
meringue paste, and brown in oven. • For paste, whip 
to a stiff froth the whites of ten eggs and one pound 
powdered sugar ; flavor with lemon, vanilla or rose- 
water ; allow three eggs to a pie ; spread over the top 
of the pie^ 

MINCE MEAT. 

Take five or six pounds scraggy beef — a neck piece 
will do, and put to boil in water enough to cover it, 
take off the scum that rises when it comes to a boil ; 

1-4 



222 TPE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

add hot water from time to time until it is tender, 
remove the lid from the pot, salt, let boil till almost 
dry turning the meat over occasionally in the liquor, 
take from the fire and let stand over night to get 
thoroughly cold ; pick bones, gristle or stringy bits 
from the meat, chop very fine, mincing at the same 
time three pounds of nice beef suet ; seed and cut four 
pounds raisins, ^^ash and dry four of currants, slice, 
thin one of citron, chop fine four quarts tart, good 
cooking apples ; put into a large pan together, add two 
ounces cinnamon, one ounce cloves, one ounce ginger, 
four 'nutmegs, the juice and grated rinds of two 
lemons, one tablespoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, 
and two pounds sugar. Put in a porcelain kettlfe one 
quart boiled cider, or better still one quart currant or 
grape juice, (canned when grapes are turning from 
green to purple,) one quart nice molasses or syrup, 
and if you have any syrup left from sweet pickles, 
add some of that, also a good lump of butter ; let it 
come to a boil and pour over the ingredients in the 
pan after first-?mixing well, then mix again thoroughly. 
Pack in jars and put in a cool place, and when cold, 
pour molasses over the top, cover tightly and it will 
keep two months. In baking take some out of a 
crock and if it is not moist enough add a lit'tle hot 
water, and strew a few whole raisins over each pie. 
Instead of boiled beef a beef's heart or roast meat 
may be used. 

The above is a good formula to use, but, of course, 
may be varied to suit different tastes or the material 
at hand. If too rich, add more chopped apples ; in 



PASTRY. 223 

lieu of cider, vinegar and water in equal proportions 
may be used ; good preserves, marmalades, spiced 
pickles, currant or grape jelly, canned fruit, dried cher- 
ries, etc., may take the place of raisins, currants 
and citron. Wine or brandy is considered by many 
a great improvement, but if "it causeth thy brother to 
offend" do not use it. Lemon and vanilla extracts, are 
often used, also preserved lemon or orange peel. It 
is better to stand over night, or several days, before 
baking into pies, as the materials will be more thor- 
oughly incorporated. Many prefer to freeze their 
pies after baking, heating them as needed. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. Annie E. Gillespie, Indianapolis, Ind. 

Twelve crackers rolled fine, one cup hot water, one 
hal^cup vinegar, one cup molasses, one cup sugar, 
one cup currants, one cup raisins, spice to taste ; 
measure with a teacup. Some use one cup dried 
bread crumbs. This is the correct quantity for four 
pies. 

PIE-PLANT PIE. 

Mrs. D. Buxton. 

Mix one-half teacup white sugar and one heaping 
teaspoon flour together, and sprinkle over the bot- 
tom crust, then add- the pie-plant cut up fine ; sprinkle 
over this another half teacup sugar and heaping tea- 
spoon flour; bake fully three-quarters of an hour in a 
slow oven ; or stew the pie-plant, sweeten, add grated 
rind and juice of a lemon, yolks of two eggs, and 
bake and frost like lemon pie. 



224 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

DRIED PEACH PIE. 
Stew peaches until perfectly soft, mash fine, and 
add for two pies, one-half teacup sweet cream ; bake 
with two crusts. 

POTATO PIE. 

Miss Sarah Thompson, Delaware. 

One common size teacup of grated raw potato, 
one quart sweet milk ; let the milk boil, stir in the 
grated potato ; when cool add two or three eggs well 
•beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste; ba:ke without 
upper crust; eat the day it is baked. This recipe 
is for two pies. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. A. B. Morey. 

Stew pumpkin cut in small pieces in a half pint 
water, and when very soft, mash with potato masher 
very fine, let the water dry away, watching .very 
closely to prevent burning or scorching ; for each pie 
take one egg, half cup sugar, two tablespoons pump- 
kin, half pint of rich milk (a little cream will improve 
it), a little salt ; stir well together and season with 
cinnamon or nutmeg ; bake with one crust in a hot 
oven, taking care that it does not brown. 

BINA'S STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Two heaping teaspoons baking powder sifted into 
two quarts of flour, scant half teacup butter, two 
tablespoons sugar, a little salt, enough sweet milk (or 
water) to make a soft dough ; mix with a knife or 
spoon, roll out almost as thin as pie cru.st, place each 
layer in a baking pan, and spread with a very little 



PASTRY. 225 

butter, upon which sprinkle some flour. This will 
make four layers in a pan fourteen inches by seven. 
Bake about fifteen minutes in a quick oven, turn out 
upside down, take off the top layer, (the bottom when 
baking,) and place on a dish to send to the table ; 
spread plentifully with strawberries (not mashed,) pre- 
viously sweetened with pulverized sugar, place layer 
upon layer, treating each one in the same way, and 
when done you will have a handsome cake, to be served 
warm, with sugar and cream. The secret of having 
light dough is to handle it as little and mix it as 
quickly as possible. Short cake is delicious served 
with charlotte russe or whipped cream ; raspberry and 
peach shortcakes may be made in .the same way. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE. 

Mrs. Canby, Bellefontaine. 

One quart flour, two tablespoons butter, two tea- 
spoons baking powder thoroughly mixed with the 
flour; mix with cold water, not very stiff; work as 
little as possible, bake, split open, and lay sliced 
oranges between ; cut in squares and serve with pud- 
ding sauce. 

CREAM TARTS. 

One pound flour, one salt spoon salt, one quarter 
pound sugar, one quarter pound butter, one egg, one- 
half teaspoon soda or baking powder dissolved in a 
spoonful of water ; mix, wet up with cold water, and 
line small patty pans ; bake in a quick oven, fill with 
mock cream, as in recipe for Boston cream cakes, 
sprinkle over with sugar, and brown in the oven. 



226 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



PUDDINGS -AND SAUCES. 



In making puddings always beat the eggs separately, 
straining the yolks and adding the whites the last 
thing. If boiled milk is used, let it cool somewhat 
before adding the eggs ; when fruit is added, stir it in 
at'thelast; raisins are better to lie in hot water for 
one or two minutes until they are plumped. Pud- 
dings are either baked, boiled or stewed ; rice, bread, 
custard and fruit require a moderate heat, batter and 
corn starch, a rather quick oven ; always bake as soon 
as mixed. 

For boiled puddings use either a tin mould, muslin 
bag, or bowl with cloth tied over ; grease the former 
well on the inside with ■ lard or butter, and in boiling 
do not let the water reach quite to the top. If a bag 
is used, make it of firm drilling, narrower, at the bot- 
tom, rounded on the corners; stitch and fell the 
seams, which should be outside the bag when in use. 
Sew a tape to the seam about three inches from top 
of bag, wring out of hot water, flour the inside well, 
pour in pudding, tie securely, leaving room to swell 
(especially when made of Indian meal, bread, rice or 
crackers), place a saucer in the bottom of kettle to 
prevent burning ; have enough boiling water to en- 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 227 

tirely cover the bag, which must be turned several 
times, keep water boiling constantly, and fill up from 
the tea-kettle when needed. If the pudding is boiled 
in a bowl, grease, fill and cover with a square of 
drilling wrung out of hot water, flour and tie on. To 
use a pan, tie the cloth tightly over the rim, lap the 
ends back and pin over the top of the pudding ; the 
pudding may then be easily lifted out by a strong fork 
put through the ends or corners of the cloth. For 
plum puddings, invert the pan when put in the kettle, 
and the pudding will not become water-soaked. 
When the pudding is done, give whatever it is boiled 
in one sudden plunge into cold water, and turn out 
at once, serving immediately. As a general rule, 
boiled puddings require double the time required by 
baked. Steaming is safer than either boiling or baking, 
since your pudding will always be lighter and more 
wholesome. 

In making sauces, do not boil after the butter is 
added. In place of wine or brandy, flavor with juice 
of the grape, or any other fruit, prepared for this 
purpose in its season by boiling, bottling and sealing 
while hot. 

Pudding cloths, however coarse, should never be 
washed with soap ; but should be dried as quickly as 
possible and kept dry and free from dust in a drawer 
or cupboard free from smell. 

Dates are an excellent; substitute for sugar in Gra- 
ham or any other pudding. 



228 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

APPLE ROLEY FOLEY. 

Mrs. T. B. J. 
Peel, quarter and core sour apples, make good 
biscuit dough, roll to half an inch thick, slice the 
quarters and lay on the prepared paste or crust, roll 
up, tuck ends in, prick deeply with a fork, lay in a 
steamer and place over a kettle of boiling water, cook 
an hour and a quarter ; or boil hard until cooked in 
bags; cut across, and eat with sweetened cream or 
butter and sugar. Cherries or any kind of berries 
can be used instead of apples. 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs. G. E. Kinney. 
Two cups sour milk, two teaspoons soda, one of 
salt ; with flour make a dough a little stiffer than for 
biscuit; quarter and core apples, put four pieces in 
each dumpling with a little sugar, (it is nice to tie a 
cloth around each one,) put into kettle of boiling 
water, slightly salted, boil half an hour; taking care 
that the water covers the dumplings. . They are also 
very nice steamed. To bake, make in same way 
using a soft dough ; place in a shallow pan, bake in a 
hot oven, and serve with cream a^id sugar. 

BIRDNEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core without quartering, enough tart, quick 
cooking apples to fill a puddiijg-pan, make a custard 
of one quart milk, the yolks of six eggs, sweeten and 
spice, pour over apples and bake ; when done use the 
whites of eggs beaten stiff with six tablespoons white 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 229 

sugar; spread the custard on, brown lightly, and 
serve either hot or cold. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Miss Mae Stokes, Milford Center. 

One quart sweet milk, pint bread crumbs, four eggs, 
four tablespoons sugar ; take half the milk, add the 
bread and soak until soft, mash fine, add the well 
beaten egg.8 and sugar, bake one hour, serve warm 
with warm sauce ; or leave out the whites of three 
eggs, beat to a stiff froth with two tablespoons sugar, 
and when pudding is done, spread with a layer of 
jelly, canned fruit or berrries, and over this spread 
the frosting, return to a quick oven and brown. 
Rolled cracker may be used instead of bread crumbs. 
Adding the grated rind of a lemon to the pudding, 
and the juice and more sugar to the frosting, makes 

a " Queen's pudding." 

« 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dr. J. W. C. Ely, Providence, R. I. 

Six eggs, seven tablespoons flour sifted into a dish, 
add a little milk at a time so as to make a small batter ; 
add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, half teaspoon 
salt, the rest of the milk (one quart in all) ; pour over 
it the whites of the eggs whipped to a froth, and a 
tablespoon brandy; bake three-quarters of an hour in 
a quick oven. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Vosbury. 

Three cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup sweet 



23(1 tiTB/BucKBYE Cook BOOK. 

milk, two tablespoons butter, two teaspoons cream- 
tartar, one egg ; beat all together, add one teaspoon 
soda, flavor with lemon, bake half an hour and serve 
with this sauce; one-half cup butter, two cups sugar, 
one-half teaspoon vanilla, half pint boiling water. 

CORN STARCH MORANGE. 

Mrs. Charles Fairbanks, Indianapolis, Ind. 

Take six tablespoons corn starch, one and a half 
quarts milk, and a little salt ; scald milk, having pre- 
pared starch in part of it cold, pour prepared starch 
into the scalded milk, let cool, add yolks of four 
eggs and three tablespoons sugar, pour in a buttered 
dish and bake half an hour or more. Make frosting 
of whites of four eggs and four tablespoons sugar, 
spread over the pudding, and place again in oven till 
brown ; serve with plum or cream pudding sauce. 

FANNIE'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. E. Davidson, Boston, Mass. 

One quart sweet milk, a little salt, two spoons corn 
starch, yolks of four eggs, half a cup sugar ; scald 
milk, add corn starch and yolks, put into a dish, cover 
with whites of four eggs beaten to a froth, and one- 
half cup sugar, set into the oven and brown a little. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. W. Case, Minneapolis, Minn. 

One cup molasses, one of sweet milk, one of suet 
chopped fine, one of raisins, one-half cup currants, 
two and a half cups flour, half teaspoon soda, mix 
with the molasses, salt and spice to taste ; steam two 
hours. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 231 

FIG PUDDING. 

Florence Woods Hush. 

Half pound figs, quarter pound grated bread, two 
and a half ounces powdered sugar, three ounces but- 
ter, two eggs, one teacup milk ; chop figs fine and 
mix with butter, and by degrees add the other ingre- 
dients ; butter and sprinkle with bread crumbs a mould, 
cover closely and boil for three hours. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. R. Southwick. 

Cut from cob two dozen full ears of corn, pound 
well, add about one pint milk, two eggs, one-fourth 
cup flour, one-fourth cup butter, one tablespoon salt ; 
bake in a well greased dish in a hot oven one hour 
and a half, and serve for dinner with roast beef, 
mashed potatoes and stewed tomatoes. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. E. Brand, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Warm a pint of molasses and pint of milk, stir well 
together, beat four eggs and stir gradually into mo- 
lasses and milk a pound of beef suet chopped fine, 
and Indian meal sufficient to make a thick batter, 
add a teaspoon pulverized cinnamon, nutmeg and a 
little' grated lemon peel, and stir all together thor- 
oughly ; dip cloth into boiling water, shake, flour a 
little, turn in the mixture, tie up leaving room for the 
pudding to swell, boil three hours ; serve hot with 
sauce made of drawn butter, wine and nutmeg. 



232 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

Kate Thompson. 

Four eggs beaten separately, two cups white sugar, 
one cup of butter, one of sweet cream, one of jelly, 
two tablespoons vanilla ; stir together yolks and su- 
gar, cream the butter, add the cream, the jelly, and 
last the white of eggs and vanilla. 

KISS PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. E. Baxter. 

Stir well beaten and strained yolks of four eggs 
and four tablespoons sugar into one quart boiling 
milk, stirring constantly to prevent burning, dissolve 
four table spoons corn starch in a little cold water or 
milk, boil until it begins to thicken, pour into a dish 
ready for table. Have the whites of iive eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth with teacup pulverized sugar and one 
teaspoon essence of vanilla, spread on top of pudding, 
set in a quick oven and brown. Take out, sprinkle 
with grated cocoanut and set dish away in a cool 
place ; serve cold three or four hours after it is made. 
The sweet liquor which settles to the bottom in cool- 
ing serves as a sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mrs. Walter Mitchell, Gallipolis. 

Grate yellow rind from two lemons, squeeze out 
juice, stir yolks of six eggs into one cup of sugar and 
half a cup of water, soften in warm water six crackers, 
or some slices of cake, lay in bottom of a baking 
dish, pour custard over them, bake till firm; beat 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 233 

whites of the eggs to a froth, add four tablespoons 
sugar, beat well ; when custard is done, pour frosting 
over it, return to the oven and brown ; eat either 
warm or cold. 

MARCH PUDDING. 

Miss. L. M. 
One cup dried apples, cup molasses, one and one- 
fourths cup flour, fourth cup butter, one egg, one 
teaspoon each of soda and cinnamon, half teaspoon 
cloves ; soak apples over night, cut fine and mix with 
water they were soaked in, and the molasses and 
spice ; mix egg; butter and flour together, add apples 
and molasses, putting soda with the latter just before 
baking ; serve hot with sauce made of one half cup 
butter, and one cup sugar, beaten smooth and flavored 
with nutmeg, lemon or vanilla. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Melrose, Mass. 

Peel and slice six oranges, put in a high glass dish 
a layer of oranges, then one of sugar and so on until 
all the orange is used, and let stand two hours ; take 
yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk, and sugar to 
taste, flavor with grating of the orange peel, and 
make a soft boiled custard, and pour over the oranges 
when cool enough not to break the dish ; beat the 
wTiites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, stir in sugar, and 
put over the pudding, and it is done. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. M. Southard. 

Stew together a teacup raisins and half teacup 



23J: THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

citron ; prepare dish with butter, put in a layer of 
cake, (any kind of cake will do, but sponge is best, or 
Boston crackers, sliced and buttered, may be used, or, 
if too rich, use stale Graham bread crumbs,) then a 
layer of fruit; and so on, with cake or bread for last 
layer; pour ov.er it custard made of a quart of milk 
and yolks of four eggs, sweetened to taste ; bake 
until you find, on inserting a knife, that the milk has 
become water. Make a, frosting of the whites of four 
eggs and four tablespoons pulverized sugar, spread on 
pudding, place it in oven till brown, and serve with 
this sauce; one teacup white sugar, -two-thirds pint 
water, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon corn starch 
prepared with milk ; let sugar and water boil, and add 
the rest, and allow to boil a few moments, then add 
the whites of one well beaten egg, with one teaspoon 
vanilla essence. 

POP CORN PUDDING. 
Crush popped corn in a coarse bag, grind in a coffee 
mill, mix two and a half pints of this meal with two 
pints sweet milk, keep warm and soak two hours, cool, 
add one egg, sugar, raisins and spice ; boil a few 
minutes, stirring thoroughly to mix meal, which 
inclines to float, well with milk ; bake from three- 
fourths to one hour, and serve hot. 

QUICK PUFF PUDDING. 

Mrs. B. T. Skinner, Battle Creek, Mich. 

Stir one pint flour, two teaspoons baking powder 
and a little salt into milk until very soft; place in 
steamer well greased cups, put in each a spoon of bat- 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 235 

ter, then one of berries, steamecd apples, or any sauce 
convenient, cover with another spoon of batter and 
steam twenty minutes. This pudding is delicious 
made with fresh strawberries, and eaten with a sauce 
of two eggs, half cup butter, and cup of sugar beaten 
thoroughly, and one cup boiling milk and one cup 
strawberries stiri^ed in. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Miss Mardie Dolbear, Cape Girardeau, Mo. 

To a teacup of rice boiled in a pint of water until 
dry, add pint of milk and boil again, add the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons, the beaten yolks of 
four eggs, half teacup sugar ; stir well together, add- 
ing when baked the well beaten whites of the eggs 
and cup of sugar ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

SAGO AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare six apples and punch out the cores, fill holes 
in apples with cinnamon and sugar, using two tea- 
spoons cinnamon to a cup of sugar ; take one table- 
spoon sago to each apple, wash thoroughly and let 
soak an hour in water enough to cover the apples, 
pour water and sago over the apples, and bake hour 
and half 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. C. Ross. 

One cup finely chopped suet, cup molasses, one of 
sour milk, one of raisins, four of flour, teaspoon soda • 
steam four hours and serve with pudding sauce. 



236 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Annie- Gillespie, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Take twelve eggs, a pound sugar, one of butter, 
wine glass wine ; mix well, and spread on a rich pie 
crust and bake as for pies ; when done beat the whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth, put on top and set in the oven 
to brown. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. C. Lee. 
To half teacup of tapioca, add one and one-half 
pints cold water, let it stand on the fire till cooked 
clear, stirring to prevent burning, remove, sweeten 
and flavor with wine and nutmeg ; pour the tapioca 
into a deep dish in which have been placed six or 
eight pared and cored apples, bake until apples are 
done, and serve cold with cream. 

*GRANDMA THOMPSON'S WHITE PUDDING. 

Over lOO jears old. 

Weigh equal quantities of best beef suet and sifted 
flour, shave down suet and rub into fine particles with 
the hands, removing all tough and stringy parts, mix ' 
well with the flour, season very highly 'with pepper, 
and salt to taste, stuff loosely in beef-skins (entrails 
cleansed as pork-skins for sausage) half a yard or less 
in- length, secure the ends, prick every two or three 
inches with a darning needle, place to boil in a kettle 
of cold water hung on the crane ; boil three hours, 
place on a table until cold, after which hang up in a 
cool place to dry ; tie up in a clean cotton bag, and 



* Contributed by Mrs. E. T. Carson, Mt. Pleasant Farm. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 237 

put away where it will be both dry and cool. When 
wanted for use cut off the quantity needed, boil in hot 
water until heated through, take out and place before 
the fire to dry off and "crisp." The above was con- 
sidered an "extra dish" at all the "flax scutchings," 
"quilting frolics," and "log rollings" of a hundred 
years ago. 

BREAD PUDDING SAUCE. 
Two tablespoons butter, cup of sugar, tablespoon 
of flour, milk of one cocoanut, and a small piece 
grated. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One teacup powdered white sugar, scant half tea- 
cup butter, half teacup rich cream ; beat butter and 
sugar thoroughly, add cream, stir the whole into half 
teacup boiling water, place on stove for a few moments, 
stirring it constantly, take off and add flavoring. 

EVERY-DAY SAUCE. 
To one pint boiling water, add heaping teacup 
sugar, tablespoon butter, pinch of salt, and tables poon 
Duryea's improved corn starch dissolved in cold 
water ; season with nutmeg or vanilla, and boil half 
an hour, and if good and well cooked it will be very 
clear. Nearly all sauces are cooked too little. 

LEMON SAUCE.' 
Two cups sugar, two eggs, juice of two lemofis'j 
and rind if you choose ; beat all together, and just|be- 
fore serving add one pint boiling water ; set on stove 
and let boil up once. Some add one-third cup butter 
and tablespoon cor;i starch. 

IS 



"238 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



PRESERVES. 



Quinces, pears, citrons, watermelon rinds, and 
many of the smaller fruits such as cherries, currants, 
etc., harden when put, at first, into a syrup made of 
their weight of sugar. To prevent this they should 
be cooked till tender in water, or in a weak syrup , 
made from a portion only of the sugar, adding the 
remainder of the sugar afterwards. Fruits which 
need hardening should be stewed over before- cooking, 
with a part or the whole of the sugar ; this extracts 
the juice, which may be boiled and poured hot over 
the fruit. Long protracted boiling destroys the 
pleasant natural flavor of the fruit, and darkens it. ■ 

Preserves should boil gently lest they burn, and in 
order that the sugar may thoroughly penetrate the 
fruit. Marmalades or the different butters will be 
smoother, better flavored, and will require less boil- 
ing if the fruit (peaches, quinces, oranges, and apples 
make the best) is well cooked and mashed before 
adding either sugar or cider. It is important to stir 
constantly. 

In making either preserves or marmalades, follow 
the directions as regards kettle, sugar and putting up, 
already given for jellies and jams. Dried fruits are 



PREgilEVES. 239 

much nicer and require less boiling, if clean soft water 
is poured over them and allowed to stand over night. 
In the morning boil until tender in.the water, sweeten- 
ing five minutes before removing from the stove. 

To dry corn or fruits nicely, spread in shallow 
boxes or box covers, and cover with mosquito net- 
ting to prevent flies reaching them. When dry put 
up in jars and cover closely, or in paper sacks. 
Dried peaches are better when halved and the cavities 
sprinkled with sugar in drying. The fruit must be 
good however, as poor fruit cannot be redeemed by 
any process. Another excellent way is to dry them 
in the oven, and when about half done, place in a 
crock a layer of peaches alternately with a layer of 
sugar. Cherries and all other kinds of fruit are ex- 
cellent dried in this manner. 



CHERRY PRESERVES. 
Choose sour ones — the early Richmond is very 
nice, — seed nearly all, allow an amount of sugar 
equal to the fruit. Take half the sugar, sprinkle 
over the fruit, let stand about an hour, pour into a 
preserving kettle, boil slowly ten minutes, skim out 
the cherries, add rest of sugar to the syrup, boil, skim, 
and pour over the cherries ; the next day drain off the 
syrup, boil, skim if necessary, add the cherries, boil 
twenty minutes, and seal up in small jars. 

PEAR PRESERVES. 

Miss Florence Williams. 
Pare, cut in halves, core and weigh (if hard, boil in 



240 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

water until tender, and use the water for the syrup), 
allow three-quarters of a pound sugar for each pound 
fruit, boil a few moments, skim, and cool ; when luke- 
warm add the pears, and boil gently until the syrup 
has penetrated them and they look clear ; some of 
the pieces will cook before the rest, and must be re- 
moved ; when done, take out, boil down the syrup a 
little and pour over them ; a few cloves stuck here 
and there in the pears add a pleasant flavor. Put in 
small jars with glass or tin tops, and seal with putty. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Take nice cling-stone peaches, or any that do not 
mash readily in cooking, pare and cut out the seeds 
(adding the kernels of a few), weigh out fruit and an 
equal amount of sugar, take half of sugar and sprinkle 
over peaches in a deep earthen vessel, let stand over 
night, drain the juice in a preserving kettle, add 
the rest of the sugar, boil, skim, put in fruit, boil 
very slowly ten minutes, skim out fruit carefully and 
pour over it the boiling syrup ; repeat for two or three 
days — till the fruit is quite clear ; put in jars, cut a 
piece of writing paper to fit jar closely, lay it over 
the preserves, wet with a little brandy ; seal with pa- 
per and egg like jelly. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 
Take equal weights of quinces and sugar, pare, 
core, aiid leave whole or cut up, boil till tender itl 
water enough to cover, carefully take out and put on 
a platter, add sugar to the water, replace fruit and 
boil slowly till clear, place in jars and pour syrup 



PRESERVES. 241 

over them. To increase the quantity without adding 
sugar, take half or two-thirds in weight as many fair 
sweet apples as there are quinces, pare, quarter and 
core ; after removing quinces, put apples into the 
syrup, and boil until they begin to look red and 
clear and are tender, place quinces and apples in jar 
in alternate layers, and cover with syrup. 

TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Take small perfectly formed tomatoes — the yellow, 
pear shaped are best. Scald and remove skins care- 
fully, add equal amount of sugar by weight, let lie 
over night, then pour all the juice you can off them 
into a preserving kettle, and boil until it is a very 
thick syrup; add tomatoes and boil carefully until 
they look transparent ; a piece or two of root ginger, 
and a few slices of lemon may be added, 

WATERMELON RIND PRESERVES. 

Miss Josie Smith. 

Pare off outside green rind, cut in pieces two inches 
long, weigh, and throw into cold water, skim out and 
add a heaping teaspoon each of salt and pulverized 
alum to two gallons of rinds, let stand until salt and 
alum dissolve, fill the kettle with cold water, and 
•place on top of stove where it will slowly come to a 
boil, covering with a large plate so as to keep rinds 
under ; boil until they can be easily pierced with a 
fork ; make and strain a strong ginger tqa, take out 
rinds, put in tea, and let remain all night, then drain, 
add fresh strained ginger tea, add rind offour lemons 
cut thin, boil a fe.w moments, skim out and make a 



242 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

syrup of-the sugar (one pound to each pound of fruit) 
and a sufficient quantity of water, add the rinds with 
the four lemons sliced, and a few pieces of white race 
ginger, and boil gently one hour. When properly 
made they are transparent and beautiful. 

APPLE BUTTER. 
Boil oiie barrel of new cider down one-half, peel 
and core three bushels of good cooking apples ; when 
the cider has boiled to one-half the quantity, add the 
apples, and when soft, stir constantly for from eight 
to ten hours; If done it will adhere to an inverted- 
plate. Put away in stone jars (not potter's ware), 
covering first with writing paper cut to fit the jar, and 
pressed down closely upon the apple-butter; cover 
the whole with thick brown paper snugly tied down. 

LEMON BUTTER. 
One lemon, one teacup white sugar, the yolks of 
two eggs, butter the size of two eggs, grate the rind 
into the juice, and boil ten minutes. 

PEACH MARMALADE, 
Pare, seed and weigh soft peaches, boil slowly 
three-quarters of an hour in just enough water to 
keep from burning, stirring almost constantly ; press 
through colander, put back in kettle, adding two and 
a half pounds sugar to every four pounds fruit, and a 
few of the blanched kernels ; boil ten minutes stirring 
often ; place in jars as elsewhere directed. 

.MRS. COOPER'S MARMALADE. 
Pare, quarter and core quinces, cut in little squares. 



PEESERVES. 243 

measure and allow an equal amount of sugar ; place 
the fruit in a porcelain . kettle with water enough to 
just cover, and boil till tender, skim out carefully and 
make a syrup of the sugar and the water in which the 
quinces were boiled ; let come to a boil, skim well, 
and drop the quinces gently in ; boil fifteen minutes 
and dip out carefully into jelly bowls or moulds. The 
syrup forms a jelly around the fruit so that it can be 
turned out on a dish, and is very palatable as well as 
ornamental. In this way quinces too defective for 
preserves may be used. 

DRIED APPLE SAUCE. 

Look over, wash thoroughly and soak in clean 
warm water half an hour ; drain, cover with cold soft 
water, place on the stove, let boil slowly two to four 
hours, mash fine, sweeten and season with cinnamon 
very highly. Never add sugar until about five min- 
utes before removing from the stove, otherwise the 
fruit will be toughened and hardened. Follow the 
same directions in preparing dried peaches, only do 
not mash nor season so highly. Cook in porcelain 
and do not stir while cooking. 



244 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



PICKLES. 



In making pickles use none but the best cider vin-: 
€gar and boil in a porcelain kettle — avoid a metal | 
one. A small lump of alum added when scaldingi 
pickles the first time renders them crisp and tender, 
but too much is injurious; keep in glass or stone- j 
ware, look at them frequently and remove all soft 
ones ; if white specks appear in the vinegar, drain off 
and scald, adding a liberal handful of sugar to each 
gallon, and pour again over the pickles ; bits of horse- 
radish and a few cloves assist in preserving the life of 
the vinegar. If put away in large stone jars, invert 
a saucer over the top of the pickles, so as to keep 
well under the vinegar. The nicest way to put up 
pickles is bottling, sealing while hot, and keeping in a 
cool dark place. Many think that mustard (the large 
white or yellow) improves pickles, especially chop- 
ped and bottled and mangoes. Never put up pickles 
in anything that has held any kind of grease, and 
never let them freeze ; use an oaken tub or cask for 
pickles in brine, keep them well under, and have more 
salt than will dissolve, so that there will always be 
plenty at the bottom of the cask. 

CHOW CHOW PICKLES. 

Mrs. Ada Estelle Bever. 

Let two hundred small cucumbers stand in salt 



PICKLES. 245 

and water closely covered for three days ; boil fifteen 
minutes in half a gallon best cider vinegar the follow- 
ing: one ounce white mustard seed, one of black 
mustard seed, one of juniper berries, one of celery 
seed, one handful small green peppers, two pounds 
sugar, a few small onions and a small piece alum; tie 
each ounce separately in swiss bags, pour the vine- 
gar while hot over the cucumbers, let stand a day, re- 
peating the operation three or four mornings. Mix 
one-fourth pound mustard with the vinegar, pour 
over cucumbers and seal up in bottles. 

CHOW CHOW. 

Miss Lou Browne, Washington City. 

One peck of green tomatoes, half peck string beans, 
quarter peck of small white onions, quarter pint red 
and green peppers mixed, two large heads cabbage, 
four tablespoons white mustard seed, two tablespoons 
white or black cloves, two tablespoons celery seed, 
two tablespoons allspice, one small box yellow mus- 
tard, pound brown sugar, ounce of turmeric, some 
cauliflower ; slice the tomatoes and let stand over night 
in brine that will bear an egg ; then squeeze out brine, 
chop cabbage, onions and beans, chop tomatoes sepa- 
rately, mix with the spices, put in a porcelain kettle, 
cover with vinegar and boil three hours. 

CAULIFLOWER PICKLE. 

Mrs. Col. W. P. Reid, Delaware. 

Choose such as are fine and of full size, cut away 
all the leaves, and pull away the flowers by bunches ; 
steep in brine two days, drain, put into bottles with 



246 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

whole black pepper, allspice and stick cinnamon ; 
boil vinegar and with it mix mustard smoothly, a 
little at a time, and just thick enough to run into the 
jars ; pour over the cold cauliflower and seal while hbt. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Cover the bottom of cask with common salt ; gather 
the cucumbers every other day early in the morning 
or late in the evening, as it does not injure the vines 
so much as in the heat of the day ; cut the cucumbers 
with a short piece of the stem on, carefully laying 
them in a basket or pail so as not to bruise ; pour 
cold water over and rinse, being careful not to rub off 
the little black briers, or in any way bruise them, as 
this is the secret of keeping them perfectly sound ^nd 
good for any length of time. Lay them in the cask 
three or four inches in depth, cover with salt, and 
repeat the operation until all are in ; (when the first 
are put in the barrel, pour in some water, after this 
the salt will make sufficient brine.) Now spread a 
cloth over them, then a board with stones on it ; each 
additional pickling must be treated in like manner, 
except that the water must not be added. When 
ready to barrel the new supply of cucumbers, remove 
stone, board and cloth, wash them very clean, and 
wipe every particle of scUm from the top of the pickles 
and sides of the cask ; throw away any soft ones, as 
they will spoil the rest ; now put in the fresh cucum- 
bers, layer by layer, with salt to cover between them. 
When cask is nearly full, cover with salt, tuck cloth 
closely around the edges, placing the board and 



PICKLES. 247 

weight on top ; cover cask closely, and the pickles 
will be perfect for two or three years. Cucumbers 
must always be put in the salt as soon as picked from 
the vines, for if they lie a day or two they will not 
keep. Do not be alarmed at the heavy scum that 
rises on them, but be careful to wash all off the board 
and cloth. When wanted for pickling, take off weight 
and board, carefully lift cloth with scum on it, wash 
stone, board and cloth clean, and wipe all scum off 
the cucumbers and sides of cask, take out as many as 
are wanted, return the cloth, board and weight, and 
cover closely. Place the cucumbers in a vessel large 
enough to hold two or three times as much water as 
there are pickles, cover with cold water (some use 
hot), change the water each day for three days, place 
the porcelain kettle on the fire, fill half full of vinegar 
(if your vinegar is very strong add half water), fill 
nearly full of cucumbers, the largest first and then the 
smaller ones, put in a lump of alum the size of a 
hulled hickory-nut, let come to a boil, stirring with a 
wire spoon so as not to cut the cucumbers ; after boil- 
ing one minute, take out, place in stone jar, and con- 
tinue until all are gcalded, then pour over cold vine- 
gar. In two or three days, if your pickles are too 
salt, turn off the vinegar and put on fresh, adding a 
pint of brown sugar to two gallons pickles, pod or two 
red pepper, a very few cloves, and some pieces of horse- 
radish. The horse-radish prevents a white scum rising. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

Take green tomatoes, wash clean, cut away a small 



218 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

piece from each end, slice and place in a large wooden 
bowl, • chop quite fine, place in a crock and mix salt 
with them, (one pint to a peck,) let stand twenty-four 
hours and drain thoroughly; take twice or three 
times as much cabbage, chop fine, mix salt in same 
proportions, add enough water to make moist and let 
stand same time as tomatoes, drain, place again in 
separate jars, cover each with cold weak vinegar, 
after twenty-four hours drain well, pressing hard to 
extract all the juice; mix tomatoes and cabbage to- 
gether, take a double handful at a time, squeeze as 
tightly as possible, and place in a dry crock ; take the 
stone jar in which they are to be pickled, place in it 
a layer of tomatoes and cabbage, sprinkle with pep- 
per, whole mustard seed, and horse radish, then 
another layer of tomatoes and cabbage, next spice, 
and so on until jar is almost full, occasionally sprink- 
ling with cayenne pepper; cover with strong cider 
vinegar to each gallon of which a teacup sugar has 
been added. Place a saucer or pieces of broken 
china on pickles to keep them under vinegar. If a 
white scum rises, drain off vinegar, boil, skim, and 
pour hot over pickles. Prepare mustard, pepper and 
horse radish, as follows : take green garden peppers, 
cut in two, place in salt water over night ; the next 
morning drain and chop quite fine ; to a pint of mus- 
tard seed, add teaspoon salt, pour in boiling water, let 
stand fifteen minutes and drain; slice horse radish 
and chop fine. Tomatoes and onions are nice pre- 
pared in the same way. For sliced pickles, take cu- 



PICKLES. 249 

cumbers and onions, or tomatoes and onions; slice 
and prepare as above. 

MANGOES. 

Take green or half-grown muskmelons, cut a piece 
the length of the melon and an inch and a half wide 
in the middle, tapering to a point at each end, take 
out the seeds with a teaspoon, secure each piece to 
its own melon by taking a stitch with a needle and 
white thread. Make a strong brine of salt and cold 
water, pour it over them, and after twenty-four hours 
take them out. For filling, use chopped tomatoes, 
chopped cabbage, small cucumbers, small white 
onions, and nasturtion seed, each prepared in separate 
jars, by remaining in salt water twenty-four hours ; 
add also green beans boiled in salt water until tender. 
For spice, use cinnamon bark, whole cloves, sliced 
and chopped horse radish, cayenne pepper, and mus- 
tard seed, the latter prepared as heretofore directed. 
Fill each mangoe with the cucumbers, onions, beans 
and nasturtion seed, then add the chopped cabbage 
and spice, sprinkling on the cayenne pepper last. Sew 
in the piece in its proper place with a strong white 
thread ; when all are thus prepared, place in a stone 
crock, cover w\,th weak cider vinegar, let remain over 
night ; in the morning drain off this vinegar, place the 
mangoes in a porcelain kettle, add fresh vinegar 
enough to boil them in, and a pint of sugar to each 
gallon vinegar, boil half an hour; (as this vinegar 
cannot be used again, it may be weakened with water, 
or only a few mangoes may be boiled at a time, or 



250 THE BUCKETS COOK BOOK. 

when one side is boiled, turn them over on the other.] 
Place in a jar, cover with good cider vinegar, let 
stand all night, in the morning drain off vinegar and 
boil it, adding one pint of sugar to each gallon, and 
pour boiling hot over the mangoes, drain off and boil 
the vinegar three or four times and they are done. 
This is not the usual way of preparing mangoes, but 
it is much the best. To pickle nasturtions, soak as 
collected in salt and water for twenty-four hours, 
drain, and put into cold vinegar ; when all the seed 
is thus prepared, drain, and cover with fresh boiling 
hot vinegar. To pickle peppers, take large green 
bnes, make a small incision at the side ; if you wish 
them very hot leave in the seeds, if not, take out all 
or the greatest part, being careful not to mangle the 
peppers ; soak in salt water twenty-four hours, chang- 
ing the water twice, stuff with chopped cabbage or 
tofnatoes seasoned with spice as for mangoes, omiting 
the cayenne pepper ; sew up the incision, place in a 
jar, and cover with cold vinegar. 

PICKLED CHICKEN. 

Emma Gould Rea. 

Boil four chickens till tender enough for meat to 
fall from bones ; put meat in a stone jar, and pour over 
it three pints of cold vinegar, and a pint and a half of 
the water in which the chickens were boiled ; add spice 
if you wish, and it will be ready for use in two days. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 
Take fine large oysters, put over fire in their own 
liquor, add a bit of butter, let simmer until they are 



PICKLES. 251 

plump and white, take up with a skimmer, lay the 
oysters, each spread nicely out, on a large folded nap- 
kin; take equal parts of vinegar and the oyster liquor 
(must be warm and cover the oysters), and into a 
large stone jar put a layer of oysters, lay over it 
whole pepper, allspice, cloves and ground mace, add 
another layer of oysters, then more spice, and so on 
until all are in, then pour over the oyster liquor and 
vinegar, and let stand one night. Oysters prepared 
in this way are delicious. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

S. E. W. 
Remove the outer skin, boil the onions in salted 
water until you can penetrate them with a straw ; 
drain and cover them while hot with cold spiced vine- 
gar ; small onions are best. 

PICCALILLI. 
Mrs. W. L. 
One large white cabbage, fifty small cucumbers, 
five quarts small string beans, eight small carrots, one 
dozen sticks celery, five red peppers, three green pep- 
pers, two heads cauliflower ; chop fine, soak over 
night in salt and water, wash well, drain thoroughly, 
and pour over them hot vinegar spiced with mace, 
cinnamon and allspice ; turn off vinegar and scald 
until safe to leave like common pickles, or can while 
hot. 

PYFER PICKLES. 

Mrs. E. M. R. 
Salt pickles down dry for ten days, soak in fresh 



252 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

water one day ; pour off water, place in porcelain 
kettle, covering with water and vinegar, with alum 
enough to taste ; stand over night on a stove which 
had fire in during the day; wash and put in a 
jar with cloves, allspice, pepper, horse radish and gar- 
lic ; boil vinegar and pour over all; in two weeks they 
are ready for use. These pickles are always fresh 
and crisp and are made with much less trouble than 
by the old fashioned way of keeping in brine. 

SPANISH PICKLES. 

Mrs. Charles Morey. 

One peck green tomatoes, one dozen onions ; 
slice, sprinkle with salt, let stand over night, strain 
off juice; mix dry a pound sugar, fourth pound whole 
white mustard seed, ounce ground black pepper, 
ounce cloves, ounce ginger, ounce cinnamon ; put a 
layer of tomatoes and onions in porcelain kettle, 
sprinkle with spice, lay in more tomatoes, and so on 
until all are used ; cover with vinegar and boil slowly 
for two hours. Pack in small jars and set in cellar. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Mrs. M. L. France. 

Pare and quarter ripe cucumbers, take out seeds, 
clean, lay in strong brine ■ nine days, stirring every 
day, take out and put in clear water one day, lay in 
alum water (a lump of alum size of a medium hulled 
hickory-nut to a gallon of water) over night, make 
syrup of a pint of good cider vinegar, pound brown 
sugar, two table spoons each broken cinnamon bark, 



PICKLES. 253 

mace and pepper grains'; make syrup enough to cover 
the slices, lay them in and cook till tender. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. H. B. S. 

Six pounds fruit, three of raisins, three of sugar, 
one pint vinegar, two tablespoons allspice, two of cin- 
namon, and one of cloves. 

PICKLED GRAPES. 

Mrs. C. T. Carson. 

Eill a jar with alternate layers of sugar and bunches 
of nice grapes just ripe; fill one-third full of good 
cold vinegar and cover tightly. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Miss Mae Stokes, Milford Centre. 

Five pounds grapes, three of sugar, two teaspoons 
cinnamon and allspice, one-half teaspoon cloves ; 
pulp grapes, boil skins until tender, cook pulps and 
strain through a sieve, add it to the skins, put in 
sugar, spices and vinegar to taste ; boil thoroughly 
and cool. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Mrs. D. Buxton. 

Leave the stem and blossom on ripe gooseberries, 
wash clean ; make a syrup of three pints sugar to 
one of vinegar, skim if necessary, add berries and 
boil down till thick, adding more sugar if needed ; 
when almost done, spice with cinnamon and cloves ; 
boil as thick as apple butter. 



254 TH^ BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

MUSKMELON PICKLES. 

Mrs. J. Ross Southwick. 

Pare unripe melons and cut into small pieces ; 
cover in vinegar sweetened with a pound sugar to a 
quart sharp vinegar ; spice with cinnamon and cloves, 
boil till transparent, or till they lose their raw taste, 
but not till they become soft. 

PEACH PICKLES, 
w. w. w. 
Pare free-stone peaches, place in a stone jar, and 
pour over them boiling hot syrup made in' the pro- 
portion of one quart good cider vinegar to three pints 
good sugar; boil and skim, and pour over the fruit 
boiling hot, repeating each day until the fruit is the 
same color to the centre, and the syrup like thin 
molasses. A few days before they are pickled, place 
the fruit, after draining, in the jar three or four inches 
thick, then sprinkle over bits of cinnamon bark and a 
few cloves, add another layer of fruit, then spice, and 
so on until the jar is full ; scald the syrup each morn- 
ing for three or four days after putting in the spice, 
and pour syrup boiling hot over them. To pickle 
clingstones, prepare syrup as for freestones; pare 
fruit, put in the syrup, boil until they can be pierced 
through with a silver fork. As clings are apt to be- ~ 
come hard when stewed in sweet syrup, it may often 
be necessary to add a pint of water the first time they 
are cooked, watching carefully until they are tender, or 
to use only part of the sugar at first, adding the rest 
as the syrup boils, skim out, place in jar, and pour 



PICKLES. 255 

boiling syrup over them ; continue to drain and boil 
the syrup each morning until the fruit is the same 
color to the centre. A few days before they are done, 
spice like peaches. Use the large white Heath clings, 
if they are to be had. All that is necessary to keep 
sweet pickles is to have syrup enough to cover and to 
keep the fruit well under. Scald with boiling syrup 
until fruit is of same color throughout, and syrup as 
thick as molasses ; watch every week, particularly if 
weather is warm, and if scum rises and syrup assumes 
a whitish appearance, boil and skim syrup, and pour 
over the fruit. If at any time syrup is lacking, pre- 
pare more as at first. 

PEAR PICKLES. 

Prepare syrup as for peaches, pare and cut fruit in 
halves, or quarters if very large, and if small leave 
whole, put syrup in porcelain kettle, and when it 
boils put in fruit, cook until a silver fork will easily 
pierce them ; skim out fruit first and place in jar, and 
last pour over syrup boiling hot; spice like peach 
pickles, draining them each day, boiling and skim- 
ming the syrup, and pouring it boiling hot over the 
fruit until fully done. By cooking pears so much 
longer at first they do not need to be boiled so fre- 
quently, but they must be watched carefully until 
finished, and if perfectly done, will keep two or more 
years. Apple pickles may be made in the same way, 
taking care to select such as will not lose shape in 
boiling. 



256 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

EUCHERED PLUMS. 

Mrs. Capt. W. B. Brown, Washington City. 
Nine pounds blue plums, six pound's sugar, two 
quarts vinegar, one ounce cinnamon ; boil vinegar, 
sugar and spice together, pour over plums, draw off 
next morning and boil, pour back on plums, repeat 
the boiling five mornings, the last time boiling fruit 
about twenty minutes. 

PICKLED RAISINS. 

Mrs. H. C. H. 
Two pounds raisins, leave on stem, one pint vine- 
gar, one-half pound sugar ; simmer over a slow fire 
half an hour. 

SWEET PICKLE. 

Mrs. W. A. Croffut, New York City. 

Take eight pounds of green tomatoes and chop 
fine, add four pounds brown sugar and boil down 
three hours, add a quart of vinegar, a teaspoon each 
of mace, cinnamon and cloves, and boil about fifteen 
minutes ; let it cool and put into jars or other vessel. 
Try this once and you will try it again. 

PICKLED WALNUTS OR BUTTERNUTS. 

Mrs. C. T. Carson. 

Take well-grown nuts, but still tender enough 
to stick a pin through ; put in water as salt as for 
fresh cucumber pickles, let stand two or three days, 
changing the water during that time, take out, rinse 
and lay in the sun a few hours, turning frequently 
until black ; bring to a boil some good cider or white 



PICKLES. 257 

wine vinegar, with any spices you choose such as 
cinnamon, cloves, mace, race ginger, mustard seed, pep- 
per and horse-radish, and if you like, about a pint of 
sugar to a gallon of vinegar. Put nuts into a jar and 
pour over hot ; will be ready for use in a few days. 

WATERMELON PICKLE. 

Pare off very carefully the green part of the rind 
of a good ripe watermelon, trim off the red core, cut 
in pieces one or two inches in length, place in a por- 
celain-lined kettle, in the proportions of one gallon 
rinds to two heaping teaspoons common salt and 
water to nearly cover, boil until tender enough to 
pierce with a silver fork, pour into a colander to drain, 
and dry by taking a few pieces at a time in the hand 
and pressing gently with a crash towel. Make syrup 
and treat rinds exactly as directed for pickled peaches. 
You may continue adding rinds as melons are used at 
table, preparing them at first by cooking in salt water 
as above ; when you have prepared as many as you 
want, and they are nearly pickled, drain and finish as 
directed as in peach pickles, except when the syrup 
is boiled the last time, put in the melons, and boil 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; set jar near stove, skim 
out melons and put in jar a few at a time, heating 
gradually so as not to break it, then pour in syrup boil- 
ing hot. A rind nearly an inch thick, crisp and tender, is 
best, although any may be used. If scum rises and 
the syrup assumes a whitish appearance, drain, boil 
and skim syrup, add melons and boil until syrup is 
as thick as molasses. 



258 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



POULTRY. 



Do not feed poultry the day before killing ; cut off 
the head, hang up by the legs, as the meat will be 
more white and healthful if bled freely and quickly — 
in winter kill from three days to a week before 
cooking Scald well by dipping in and out of a pail 
or tub of boiling water, being careful not to scald so 
much as to set the feathers and make them more dif- 
ficult to pluck ; place the fowl on a board with head 
towards you, pull the feathers away from you, which 
will be in the direction they naturally lie (if pulled 
in a contrary direction the skin is likely to be torn), 
be careful to remove all the pin-feathers with a knife 
or pair of tweezers ; singe, but not smoke, over blaz- 
ing paper, place on a meat board, and with a sharp 
knife cut off the legs at the joint above the feet and 
the oil bag above the tail ; take out the crop, either 
by making' a slit at the back of the neck or in front, 
(the last is better), taking care that everything per- 
taining to the crop or windpipe is removed, cut the 
neck bone off close to the body, leaving the skin a 
good length if you intend to stuff, cut a slit in the 
lower part of the fowl from the breast bone to the 
tail, being careful to cut only through the skin ; put 



POULTRY. 259 

in your finger at the breast and detach all the intes- 
tines, taking care not to burst the gall bag (situated ' 
near the upper part of the breast bone, and attached 
to the liver ; if broken, no washing can remove the 
bitter taint left on every spot it touches) ; squeeze the 
body of the fowl and force out the whole through the 
incision at the tail ; if there is much fat, trim off a 
part ; split the gizzard and take out the inside and 
inner lining (throw liver, heart and gizzard into water, 
wash well, and use for the gravy) ; wash thoroughly 
in several waters, hang up to drain, and the fowl is 
ready to be stuffed, skewered and placed to roast. 
Before stuffing, to make it look plump, flatten the 
breast bone by placing several thicknesses of cloth 
over it and pounding it, being careful not to break 
the skin ; stuff the breast first, but not too full or it 
will burst in cooking ; stuff the body rather fuller 
than the breast, sew up both openings with strong 
thread, and sew the skin of the neck over upon the 
back or down upon the breast, (these threads must 
be carefully renioved before sending to the table). 
Lay the points of the wings under the back and fasten 
in that position with a skewer run through both 
wings and held in place with a twine ; press the legs 
as closely towards the breast and side bones as pos- 
sible, and fasten with a skewer run through the body 
and both thighs; push a short skewer through above 
the tail, and tie the ends of the legs down with a 
twine close upon the skewer; place to roast in an 
oven rather hot at first and then graduate the heat to 
moderate until done, to test which insert a fork be- 



260 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

tween the thigh and body, if the juice is watery and 
not bloody it is done. If not .served at once, the fowl 
may be kept hot without drying up, by placing on a 
skillet full of boiling water (set on top of stove or 
range), and inverting a dripping pan over it. Many 
persons roast fowls upon a wire rack or trivet placed 
inside the dripping pan. The pan should be three 
inches deep and measure at the bottom about sixteen 
by twenty inches with sides somewhat flaring. In 
roasting a turkey allow fifteen minutes time for every 
pound. Some steam turkey before roasting, and a 
turkey steamer may be easily improvised by placing 
the dripping pan, containing the turkey, on top of 
two or three pieces of wood (hickory or maple is the 
best) laid in the bottom of a wash boiler, with just 
enough water to cover the wood ; place the lid, which 
should fit tightly on the boiler, and as the water boils 
away add more. Add the liquor in the dripping pan 
to the gravy. 

Chickens are stuffed and roasted in the same way 
as turkeys, and are much better, whether broiled, fried, 
or roasted, for being first steamed, especially if over 
a year old. They roast in twenty or thirty minutes. 

Some, in making chicken or meat pies, line the dish 
with the lower crust, and place in the oven until well 
" set," then fill, cover and bake ; others, instead of 
hning the entire surface of the dish, use only strips of 
the dough. 

BAKED CHICKENS. 

Mrs. E. W. Herrick, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Dress the chickens and cut them in two, soak for 



POULTRY. 261 

half an hour in cold water, wipe perfectly dry and put 
in a dripping pan, bone side down, without any water; 
have a hot oven, and, if the chickens are young, half 
an hour's cooking will be sufficient. Take out and 
season with butter, salt and pepper ; pack one above 
another as closely as possible, and place in a pan over 
boiling water, covering them closely, — this keeps them 
moist until served, — boil the giblets in a little water, 
and after the chickens are taken from the dripping- 
pan, put into it the water in which giblets were boiled, 
thicken it and add the chopped giblets. This nian- 
ner of baking chickens is fully equal to broiling them. 

BAKED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Mrs. Louisa Hush. 

Cut each of four chickens into seven or nine pieces, 
wash thoroughly and quickly, and put in a colander 
to drain ; put a half tablespoon each of lard and but- 
ter into a dripping-pan, set in the chickens and add 
half a pint hot water, at the side of the chickens ; let 
steam and bake half an hour, turn, taking care that 
they get only to a light brown, and just before taking 
up add salt and pepper to taste ; when done take out 
in a dish and keep hot. To make the gravy, add a 
half pint or more of water, set the dripping-pan on 
the stove, and add one tablespoon flour mixed with 
one-half cup of cream or milk, stirring slowly, adding 
a little of the mixture at a time, Let cook thoroughly, 
stirring constantly to prevent burning, and to make 
the gravy nice and smooth; season more if neces- 
sary, 



262 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

BONED CHICKEN. 

Take one or two chickens, boil in a small quantity 
of water with a little salt, and when thoroughly done, 
take all the meat from the bones, removing all the 
skin you can, and keeping the light meat separate 
from the dark ; chop and season to taste with salt and 
pepper. If you have a meat presser, take it, or any 
other mould such as a crock or pan will do ; put in a 
layer of light and a layer of dark meat till all is used, 
add the liquor it was boiled in, which should be about 
one teacupful, and put on a small weight ; when cold 
cut in slices. Many chop all the meat together, add 
one pounded cracker to the liquor it was boiled in, 
and mix all thoroughly before putting in the mould; 
either way is nice. 

CHICKEN OR BEEF CROQUETTES. 

Take cold xjhicken, beef or veal, roast or boiled, 
mince it very fine, moisten with the cold gravy if 
you have it, or moisten well and add one egg, season 
with pepper, salt, and, if you like, an onion or sage ; 
make into small cakes, cover with egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in lard and butter. 

BROILED CHICKENS OR QUAILS. 

Mrs. A. S. Chapman. 
Cut chicken open on the back, lay on the meat 
board and pound until it will lie flat, lay on gridiron, 
and place over a bed of coals, broil until a nice brown, 
but do not burn. It will take twenty or thirty min- 
utes to cook thoroughly, and it will cook much bet- 



POULTRY. 263 

.ter to cover with a pie-tin held down with a weight 
so that all parts of the chicken may lie closely to the 
gridiron. While the chicken is broiling, put the liver, 
gizzard and heart in a stew pan and boil in a pint of 
water until tender, chop fine and add flour, butter, 
pepper, salt, and if you have it, a cup of sweet cream, 
to the water in which they were boiled ; when the 
chicken is done, dip it in this gravy while hot, lay it 
back on the gridiron a minute, then put it in the 
gravy arid let it boil for a half minute and send to the 
table hot. Cook quails in the same way. 

CHICKENS FOR LUNCH. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Split a young chicken down the back, wash, and 
wipe dry, season with salt and pepper. Put in a drip- 
ping-pan, and place in a moderate oven ; bake three- 
quarters of an hour. This is much better for lunch' 
than when seasoned with butter. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Mrs. B. 

Put chicken on in cold water, and while boiling cut 
off a slice from your bread dough, add a small lump 
dr lard, and mix up like light biscuit; cut out with 
cake-cutter and set by stove to rise; wash and pare 
potatoes of moderate size, and add them when chicken 
is almost done ; when potatoes begin to boil, season 
with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour ; add dump- 
lings, season, and dredge again with flour. See that 
you have enough watfer to keep from burning, coyer 
very tightly, and do not take cover off until dump- 



264 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

lings are done. They will cook in half an hour, and 
you can then lift one edge of the lid, take out a dump- 
ling, break it open, and see if it is done. Dish pota- 
toes by themselves and chicken and dumplings to- 
gether. Then make your gravy; if not enough 
add more water, butter and seasoning. Or make your 
dumplings with one pint sour milk, two well beafen 
eggs, half teaspoon soda mixed in the flour, salt, pep- 
per, and flour enough to make as stiff" as can be stirred 
with a spoon ; or baking powder and sweet milk may 
be used. Drop in by spoonfuls, cover tightly, and 
boil as above. You can make a pot-pie from a good 
boiling piece of beef; if too much grease arises skini 

off. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Mrs. W. W. W. 

Cut up two young chickens, place in hot water 
enough to cover, boil until tender; line a four or five 
quart pan with, a rich baking powder or soda biscuit 
dough quarter of an inch thick, put in part of chicken, 
season with salt, pepper and butter, lay in a few thin 
strips or squares of dough, add the rest of chicken 
and season as before ; some add five or six fresh eggs 
or a few new potatoes in their season ; season liqiiBr 
in which the chickens were boiled with butter, salt 
and pepper, add a . part of it to the pie, cover with 
crust a quarter of an inch thick, with a hole in the 
centre the size of a teacup. Bake one hour, keep 
adding the chicken liquor and hot water if needed, 
since the fault of most chicken pies is that they are^ 
too dry. You can scarcely have too much gravy. 



POULTRY. 265 

CHICKEN PIE WITH OYSTERS. 

Boil the chicken — a year old is best — until tender, 
line dish with a nice crust, put in chicken, season 
with salt, pepper and butter, add the liquor in which 
chicken was boiled, should not be more than one 
pint, cover loosely with a crust having a slit cut 
each way in the middle. Drain off liquor fnom a 
quart of oysters, boil, skim, season with butter, pep- 
per, salt and a thickening of flour and water, boil up 
once and pour over oysters, and about twenty min- 
utes before the pie is done, lift the crust and put them 
in. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKEN OR BEEF. 

Mrs. Carrie Beck. 

Boil potatoes, mash as for the table except less 
moist, stuff the chicken or roast with this, and bake 
as ordinarily ; for ducks add onions chopped fine ; if 
you wish the bread dressing too, it may be laid in the 
corner of the pan. 

FRIED SPRANG CHICKEN, 

Mrs. L. H. 

Put skillet on the stove with about one-half table- 
spoon each of lard and butter, when hot lay in chicken_ 
sprinkle over with flour, salt and pepper, place lid on 
skillet, and cook over a moderate fire ; when a slight 
larown turn the chicken and sprinkle flour, salt and 
pepper over the top as at first, and if necessary add 
more lard and butter, cook slowly until done ; make 
gravy just the same as for baked chicken. As a gen- 
eral rule half an hour is long enough to fry spring 



266 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

chicken. To make rich and nice gravy without 
cream, take the yolk of an egg, beat up light, strain 
and stir slowly into the gravy after the flour and milk 
have been stirred in and thoroughly cooked ; as soon 
as it boils up the gravy is done, and should be re- 
moved from the stove. All gravies need to be stirred 
'well apd thoroughly cooked over a moderate fire. 

FRIED GUMBO. 

Mrs. J. H. S. 
Take two young chickens, cut up and fry in skillet ; 
when brown but not scorched, put in a pot with one 
quart of finely chopped okra, four large tomatoes, and 
two onions chopped fine ; cover with boiling water, 
boil very slowly, and keep the kettle tightly closed ; 
add boiling water as it wastes, and simmer slowly 
three hours ; season with salt, pepper, and a little 
butter and flour rubbed together ; serve with boiled 
rice. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. E. M. R. 
Cook six: chickens in a small quantity of water, 
until the meat will part from the bone easily ; season 
to your taste with salt and pepper; just as soon as 
cold enough to handle, remove bones and skin, place 
meat in a deep pan or mould, just as it comes from 
the bone, using gizzard, liver and heart, until the mould 
is nearly full. To the water left in the kettle, add 
three-fourths of a box of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in 
a little warm water, and- boil until it is reduced to a 
little less than a quart, pour over the chicken in the 



POULTKY. 267 

mould, leave to cool, cut with a very sharp knife and 
serve. The slices will not easily break up if directions 
are followed. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Mrs. J. L. Porter. 

After picking and singeing the turkey, plump it by 
dipping three times into boiling water and once into 
cold holding it by the legs, place to drain, and dress 
as in general directions ; prepare stuffing by taking 
pieces of dry, stale, not moldy, bread and crust (not 
too brown) cut off a loaf of bread fully three or four 
days old ; place crust and pieces in a pan and pour on 
a very little boiling water, cover tightly with a cloth, 
let stand until soft, add a largelump of butter, pepper, 
salt, one or two fresh eggs, and the bread from which 
the crust was cut, so as not to have it too moist. 
Mix well with the hands, and season to suit taste ; 
rub inside of turkey with pepper and salt, stuff it as 
already directed, and sew up each slit with a strong 
thread ; tie the legs down firmly, and press the wings 
closely to the sides, securing them with a cord tied 
around the body (or use skewers if you hav« them), 
steam from one to three hours (or until you can 
easily pierce with a fork), according to the size, place 
in a dripping pan, skewer on the breast a piece of 
salt pork and the pieces of fat taken from the turkey 
before it was stuffed, dredge well with flour, put a 
quart of boiling water in the pan, and baste often. 
Cook until it is a nice brown and perfectly tender ; 
remove to a hot platter and serve with cranberry 
sauce and giblet gravy. To make the gravy, after 



268 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

the turkey is dished, place the dripping pan on the top 
of range or stove, skim off the fat if there is too much, 
and add more water if necessary; chop the heart, 
gizzard and liver (previously boiled for two hours in 
two quarts of water) and add to the gravy with the 
water in which ttiey were boiled, season with salt and 
pepper, add a smooth thickening of flour and water, 
stir constantly until thoroughly mixed with the gravy, 
and boil until the flour is well cooked, stirring often 
to prevent burning. 

ROAST TURKEY WITH OYSTER DRESSING. 
J. H. s. 
Steam the turkey two hours, or until it begins to 
grow tender, lifting the cover occasionally and sprink-* 
ling lightly with salt. Then take out, loosen the legs, 
and rub the inside again with salt and pepper, and 
stuff with a dressing prepared as follows : , Take a 
loaf of stale bread, cut off crust and soften by placing 
in a pan, pouring on boiling water, draining off imme- 
diately and covering tightly ; crumble the bread fine, 
add half a pound melted butter, or more if you want 
it very rich ; a teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, or 
enough to season rather highly ; drain off liquor from 
a quart of oysters, bring to a boil, skim and pour over 
the bread crumbs, adding the soaked crusts, and one 
or two eggs ; mix all thoroughly with the hands, and 
if rather dry, moisten with a little sweet.milk ; lastly 
add- the oysters, being careful not to break them ; or 
first put in a spoonful of stuffing, and then three or 
four oysters, and so on until the turkey is filled ; stuff 



POULTRY. 269 

the breast first. Flour a cloth and place over the 
openings, tying it down with a twine ; spread the tur- 
key over with butter, salt and pepper, place in a drip- 
ping-pan in a well heated oven, add half a pint hot 
water, and roast two houts, basting often with a little 
water, butter, salt and pepper, kept in a tin for this 
purpose, and placed on the back of the stove. A 
swab, made of a stick with a cloth tied on the end, is 
better than a spoon to baste with. Turn until nicely 
browned on all sides, and about half an hour before 
it is done, baste with butter, and dredge with a little 
flour — this will give it a frothy appearance — when you 
dish the turkey if there is much fat in the pan, pour 
off most of it, and add the chopped giblets and the 
water they were cooked in, which should have been 
stewed down to about one pint ; place one or two 
heaping tablespoons flour (nicer to have half of it 
browned) in a pint bowl, mix smooth with a little 
cream, fill up bowl with cream or rich milk and add 
to the gravy in the pan ; boil several minutes, stirring 
constantly, and pour into the gravy tureen ; serve with 
currant or apple jelly. A turkey steamed in this way 
does not look so well, but is very tender and palatable. 

ENGLISH ROAST TURKEY. 

Mrs. C. T. Carson. 

Kill several days before cooking, prepare in the 
usual manner, stuff with bread crumbs (not using the 
crusts) rubbed fine, moistened with butter and two 
eggs, seasoned with salt, pepper, parsley, sage, 
thyme or sweet marjoram ; sew up, skewer, and place 

1J7 



270 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

to roast in a rack within the dripping pari ; spread 
with bits of butter, turn and baste frequently, with 
butter, pepper, salt and water ; a few minutes before 
it is done glaze with the raw white of an egg ; dish 
the turkey, pour off most of the fat, add the chopped 
giblets and the water in which they were boiled, 
thicken with flour and butter rubbed together, stir in 
the dripping pan, let boil thoroughly and serve in a 
gravy boat. Garnish with fried oysters, and serve 
with celery sauce and stewed gooseberries. Choose 
a turkey weighing from eight to ten pounds. If it be- 
comes too brown, cover with buttered paper. 



SALADS. 271 



SALADS. 



In preparing the dressing, powder the hard boiled 
eggs, either in a mortar or by mashing with the back 
of a silver spoon, [if raw eggs are used beat well and 
strain) add the seasoning, then the oil,, a few drops at 
a time, and, lastly and gradually, the vinegar. Always 
use the freshest olive salad oil, not the common sweet 
oil ; if it cannot be obtained, melted butter is a good 
substitute, and by some considered even more palata- 
ble ; or in making chicken salad use the oil from off 
the water in which the chickens were boiled. It is 
much nicer to cut the meat with a knife instead ot 
chopping, always removing bits of gristle, fat and 
skin ; the same is true as regards celery ; if the latter 
cannot be procured, use crisp white cabbage or nice 
head lettuce, well chopped. Pour the dressing over 
the chicken and celery, mixed and slightly salted ; toss 
up lightly with a silver fork, turn on a platter, form 
into an oval mound, garnish the top with slices of 
cold boiled eggs, and around the bottom with sprigs 
of celary and set away in a cold place until needed. 
Many think turkey makes a nicer salad than chicken. 
Always make soup of the liquor in which turkey or 



272 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

chicken was boiled. Cabbage salad is very palatable, 
but few know how to prepare it properly. The milk 
and vinegar should be put on to heat inieparate sauce- 
pans; when the vinegar boils, add butter, sugar, salt 
and pepper, and stir in the chopped cabbage ; cover, 
and let scald and steam — not boil — for a moment, 
meanwhile, remove hot milk from stove, cool a little, 
and stir in the well beaten and strained yolks ; return 
to stove, and boil a moment. Dish cabbage and pour 
custard over it, stir rapidly with a silver spoon until 
well mixed, and set immediately in a cold place.. 
Serve all salads within a few hours after making. 



SIDNEY SMITH'S WINTER SALAD. 

W. A. Croffut— Daily Graphic. 
Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 
Unwonted softness to the salad give ; 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon — 
Distrust the condiment which bites too soon ; 
But deem it not, though made of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt ; 
Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And once with vinegar procured from town. 
True flavor needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well boiled eggs. 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, half suspected, animate the whole ; 
And lastly, on the favored compound toss 
A magic tea-spoon of anchovy sauce. 
Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough, 
Though ham and turkey are not boiled enough. 
Serenely full, the epicure shall say, 
'• Fate cannot harm me — 1 have dined to-day.'' 



SALADS. 273 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Mrs. Hawkins. 

Two quarts finely chopped cabbage, two table- 
spoons salt, two of white sugar, one of black pepper, 
and a heaping one of ground mustard ; rub yolks of 
four hard boiled eggs until smooth, add half cup but- 
ter slightly warmed ; mix thoroughly with the cab- 
bage and add teacup good vinegar ; serve with whites 
of the eggs sliced and placed on the salad. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. C. S. Ogden. 
Chop fine one chicken cooked tender, and one head 
of cabbage, salt, pepper, mustard, half teacup butter, 
pint vinegar, and five hard boiled eggs chopped fine. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. C. E. Skinner, Battle Creek, Mich. 

Boil three chickens until tender, cut into small 
pieces, add double the quantity of celery, four boiled 
eggs sliced and mixed. For dressing, put over fire a 
pint vinegar, butter size of an egg, tablespoon black 
pepper, two tablespoons sugar, two beaten eggs ; stir 
all into vinegar until it thickens ; slice lemon for the 
top. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

I Mrs. H. C. Mahncke. 

Peel and slice cucumbers, mix with salt and let 
stand half an hour ; mix two spoons sweet oil or ham 
gravy with as much vinegar and a teaspoon sugar, 
add the cucumber, which should be pressed put a 
little ; add a teaspoon pepper and stir well. 



274 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

HAM SALAD. 

Mrs. S. Watson, Upper Sandusky. 
Cut up small bits of boiled ham, place in salad 
bowl with the hearts and inside leaves of a head of 
lettuce; pour over the dressing cold, and mix care- 
fully. Make dressing as follows : ' Mix in a sauce- 
pan one pint sour cream as free from milk as possible, 
and half pint good vinegar, pepper, salt, a small piece 
of butter, sugar, and a small tablespoon of mustard 
mixed smooth ; boil, add the well beaten yolks of two 
eggs, stirring carefully as for float until it thickens to 
the consistency of starch, then set in a cool place or 
on ice. 

HERRING SALAD. 

Mrs. H. C. Mahncke. 

Soak three Holland herrings over night, cut in 
very small pieces, cook and peel eight medium po- 
tatoes and chop with two small cooked red beets, 
two onions, a few sour apples, some roasted veal, and 
three hard boiled eggs ; mix with a sauce of sweet 
oil, vinegar, broth, pepper and mustard to taste. A 
spoonful of thick sour cream improves the sauce, 
which should stand over night in an earthen dish. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Mrs. E. M. Rea, Minne^olis, Minn. 

Take the skin, juice and seeds from nice, fresh to- 
matoes, chop what is left with celery, and add a good 
salad dressing. • 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Mrs. Hazen. 

Put on one teacup vinegar to boil, yolks of three 



SALADS. 275 

eggs, desert spoon of flour, six mustard spoons of 
mixed mustard, pinch cayenne pepper, three table 
spoons white sugar, three of oil, two teaspoons salt ; 
beat all together and cook until it thickens, stirring all 
the time. To prevent burning cook in a pan set in a 
pan of boiling water. 

CREAM DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Miss Laura Sharp, Kingston. 

Two tablespoons whipped sweet cream, two of sugar, 
and four of vinegar ; beat well and pour over cabbage 
previously cut very fine. 

DRESSING FOR LETTUCE. 
A teaspoon butter, one of ground mustard, yolk of 
one egg ; beat all together till thoroughly mixed, 
add vinegar and two tablespoons sugar. 

CREAM SLAW. 

Mrs. Dr. Skinner, Somerset. 

One gallon cabbage cut very fine, pint vinegar, 
pint sour cream, half cup sugar, teaspoon flour, two 
eggs and a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; put 
vinegar, sugar and butter in a saucepan and let boil ; 
stir eggs, cream and flour, previously well mixed, 
into the vinegar, boil thoroughly and throw over the 
cabbage, previously sprinkled with one teaspoon salt, 
one of black pepper and one of mustard. 



276 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS. 



To make nutritious, healthful and palatable soup, 
with flavors properly commingled, is an art and re- 
quires study and practice ; but it is surprising from 
what a scant allotment of material a delicate and ap- 
petizing soup may be produced. Pieces of gristle, 
odds and ends of meat, trimmings of steak and cut- 
lets, bones (first thoroughly cracked), liquors left from 
boiling poultry, fresh or salt meats, (but not the small- 
est bit of fat) are good soup stock. Place in a large 
kettle with one quart water to each pound of meat, 
stir frequently, skim well and let simmer for six or 
eight hours, strain into a stone jar, and when 
cold remove the cake of fat from off the top, and the 
liquor may be used for almost any kind of soup. 

A rich soup stock can be best made from a shank 
or shin of beef, (knuckle of veal is next best). Cut 
in several pieces, crack the bones, add four quarts of 
water and simmer until the liquor is reduced one-half; 
strain, cool and skim, and if properly boiled and long 
enough, you will have an excellent- jelly. Stock 
made from any other beef than the shank or shin will 
not jelly, but will taste very like good beef tea. 



SOUPS. 277 

Never boil vegetables with it, as they will cause it to 
be sour. 

To make the soup, put on as much stock as needed, 
(if in jelly, scrape the sediment from off the bottom), 
add seasoning,, water and vegetables. The potatoes 
should be peeled, sliced and laid in salt and water for 
half an hour, the cabbage parboiled and drained, and 
all others either sliced or cut fine before adding them 
to the soup ; boil until thoroughly dissolved, strain 
through a colander and serve at once, or omit the strain- 
ing if you choose. Always use cold water for mak- 
ing soups, but if necessary to add more, add hot; skim 
well, especially during the first hour ; some throw in a 
little salt, others add now and then a cup of cold 
water to cause the scum to rise. Keep kettle closely 
covered so that the flavor may not be lost. 

Thickened soups require nearly double the season- 
ing used for thin ; if wanted very clear and delicate, 
strain through a hair sieve. 

Every kitchen should be provided with a soup 
kettle, made with a double bottom so as to prevent 
burning. In making oyster soups, add oysters to 
boiling water, and allow to stew about five minutes, 
or until the body is plump and the edges ruffled ; 
too much cooking ruins the soup, and if underdone, 
they are wholly unpalatable. 



278 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

CLAM SOUP.* 

First catch your clams — along the ebbing edges 

Of saline coves you'll find the precious wedges 

With backs up lurliing in the sandy bottom ; 

Pull in your iron rake, and lo ! you've got 'em ! 

Take thirty large ones, put a basin under 

And cleave, vifith knife, their stony jaws asunder ; 

Add water (three quarts) to the native liquor, 

Bring to a boil (and, by the way, the quicker 

It boils the better, if you'd do it cutely.) 

Now add the clams, chopped up and minced minutely. 

Allow a longer boil of just three minutes, 

And while it bubbles, quickly stir within its 

Tumultuous depths where still the molluscs mutter. 

Four tablespoons of flour and four of butter, 

A pint of milk, some pepper to your notion, 

And clams need salting, although born of ocean. 

Remove from fire ; (if much boiled they will suffer — 

You'll find that India-rubber isn't tougher.) 

After 'tis off, add three fresh eggs, well beaten, 

Stir once more, and it's ready to be eaten. 

Fruit of the wave ! O, dainty and delicious ! 

Food for the gods ! Ambrosia for Apicius ! 

Worthy to thrill the soul of sea-born Venus, 

Or titillate the palate of Silenus ! 

BEEF SOUP. 
Take cracked joints of beef, and after putting the 
meat in the pot and cooking it well with water, let it 
come to a boil, when it should be well skimmed. 
Set the pot where the meat will simmer slowly until 
it is thoroughly done, keeping it closely covered all 
the time. The next day or when cold remove the fat 
which hardens on the top of the soup. Peel, wash 
and slice three good sized potatoes, and put them 

* This rhyme recipe was written for "The Buckeye Cook Book" by "W. A. 
Croffut, Editor of Daily Graphic, New York. 



SOUPS. 279 

into the soup ; cut up half a head of white cabbage 
in shreds, and add to this a pint of Shaker corn that 
has been soaked over night, two onions, one head of 
celery, and tomatoes as you like. When these are 
done, and they should simmer slowly — care being 
taken that they do not burn, strain the soup and 
serve. Noodle soup may be made by adding noodles 
to the soup after straining ; these will cook in fifteen 
or twenty minutes, and are prepared in the following 
manner : To one egg add as much sifted flour as it 
will absorb, with a little salt ; roll out as thin as a 
wafer, dredge very lightly with flour, roll over and 
over into a large roll, slice from the ends, shake out 
the strips loosely and drop into the soup. The different 
varieties of beef soup are formed by this method of 
seasoning and the different vegetables used in pre- 
paring it after the joints have been well boiled. Be- 
sides onions, celery, cabbages, tomatoes and potatoes, 
many use a few carrots, turnips, beets, and force meat- 
balls seasoned with spice ; rice or barley will give the 
soup consistency, and are to be preferred to flour for 
the purpose. Parsley, thyme and sage are the favorite 
herbs for seasoning, but should be used sparingly. To 
make force meat-balls, add" to one pound chopped 
beef, one egg, a small lump butter, a cup or less of 
bread crumbs ; season with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with the water from stewed meat ; make in 
balls and fry brown, or make egg balls by boiling 
eggs, mashing the yolks with a silver spoon, and 



280 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

mixing with one raw yolk and one teaspoon flour; 
season with salt and pepper, make into balls, drop in 
soup just before serving. 

GRANDMOTHER'S BEAN SOUP. 
Take one pint beans, wash well, put on to cook in 
one quart of cold water ; when water boils pour off 
and add quart cold water again; put in piece of pork 
the size of your hand, salt to your taste ; as water 
boils away add so as to keep covered with water ; cook 
till you can mash the beans easily ; beat two eggs 
well, add two tablespoons water and a pinch of salt, 
stir in flour till as stiff as you can stir, then drop the 
batter with a spoon into the soup, (having previously 
taken two-thirds of the beans out into a pan, laid the 
piece of pork on the top, with a sprinkle of salt and 
pepper, and put all into the oven to brown) when the 
dumplings swell up, pepper slightly and the soup is 
done. If one does not like the pork taste, use butter 
instead of pork. 

GREEN CORN SOUP. 

Kate Thompson, Millersburg, Ky. 

Simmer a fat chicken slowly for several hours ; an 
hour before dinner add corn cut from a dozen ears, 
and just before taking from the fire, add one pint sweet 
milk and one egg beaten light with a teaspoon flour. 
This can be made in winter with dried corn, but the 
corn must be soaked over night, and requires longer 
cooking. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Four pounds lean beef cut in small pieces, half 



SOUPS. 2S1 

peck green peas, gallon water, boil empty pods of 
peas in water one hour ; strain out, add beef and boil 
slowly one and a half hours ; half an hour before 
serving strain out meat, add peas, salt and pepper to 
taste, and if you like, add one teaspoon sugar and a 
little thickening. 

MOCK TURTLE OR CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Mrs. H. B. S. 

One large calf's head well cleaned and washed,, 
four pig's feet ; lay head and feet in bottom of a large 
pot and cover with a gallon of water ; boil three hours, 
or until flesh will slip from bones ; take out head, 
leaving the feet to be boiled steadily while the meat 
is cut from the head ; select with care enough of the 
fatty portions in the top of the head and the cheeks 
to fill a teacup, and set aside to cool ; remove brains 
to a saucer, and also set aside ; chop the rest of the 
meat with the tongue very fine, season with salt, pep- 
per, powdered marjoram and thyme, a teaspoon of 
cloves, one of mace, half as much allspice and a grated 
nutmeg. When the flesh falls from the bones of the 
feet, take out bones, leaving the gelatinous meat ; boil 
all together slowly, without removing the cover, for 
two hours more, take the soup from the fire and 
set it away until the next day. An hour before din 
ner set the stock over the fire and when it boils strain 
carefully and drop in the meat you have reserved, 
which when cold, should be cut 'into small squares. 
Have these all ready as well as the force meat-balls ; 
to prepare these rub the yolks of five hard boiled 
eggs to a paste in a wedgewood mortar, or in a bowl 



282 THE BUCKEYI! COOK BOOK. 

with the back of a silver spoon, adding gradually the 
brains to moisten them, also a little butter and salt. 
Mix with these two eggs beaten very light, flour the 
hands and make this paste into balls about the size of 
a pigeon's egg ; throw them into the soup five min- 
utes before taking it from the fire ; ■ stir in a large 
tablespoon browned flour rubbed smooth in a little 
cold water, and finish the seasoning by the addition 
of a glass and a half of sherry or madeira wine and 
the juice of a lemon. It should not boil more than 
half an hour on the second day. Serve with sliced 
lemons. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Two quarts water, tablespoon ^alt, two of butter, 
half teaspoon pepper; heat together to boiling point, 
add pint oysters, six rolled crackers, half cup sweet 
cream. Remove as soon as at the boiling point. Serve 
immediately. 

POT AU FEU. 

Mrs. Col. Clifford Thompson, New York City. 

Take a good sized beef bone with plenty of meat 
on it, extract the marrow and plape in a pot on the 
back of the range, covering the beef with three or 
more quarts of cold water ; cover tightly and allow to 
simmer slowly all day long. The next day, before 
heating, remove the cake of grease from the top, and 
add a large onion (previously stuck full of whole cloves, 
and then roasted in the oven till of a rich brown 
color), adding tomatoes or any other vegetables which 
one may fancy. A leek or a section of garlic adds 
much to the flavor. Rice may be added or vermicelli 



SOUPS. 283 

for a change. Just before serving burn a little brown 
sugar and stir through it. This. gives a peculiar flavor 
and rich color to the soup. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. Col. Reid, Delaware. 

One gallon of stock made from nice fresh beef, skim 
and strain, take three quarts tomatoes, remove skin 
and cut out hard center, put through a fine seive and 
add to the stock; make a paste "of butter and flour- 
and when the stock begins to boil, stir in half a tea- 
cup, taking care not to have it lumpy ; boil twenty- 
minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. When 
out of season, canned tomatoes will answer, two quarts 
being sufficient. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. D. C. Conkey, Minneapolis, Minn. 

One quart tomatoes, one of water; stew till soft; 
add teaspoon soda, allow to effervesce and add quart 
of milk, salt, butter and pepper to taste, with a little 
rolled cracker. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

Place the rack of a cold turkey and what remains 
of the dressing and gravy, in a pot, and cover with 
cold water ; simmer gently for three or four hours, 
and let it stand till the next day ; take off all the fat 
and skim off all the bits and bones ; put the soup on 
to heat till it boils, then thicken slightly with flour 
wet up in water, and season to taste ; pick off all the 
bits of turkey from the bones, put them in the soup, 
boil up and serve. 



284 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

VEAL SOUP. 

Mrs. R. M. Nixon, New Castle, Ind. 

To about three pounds of a well broken joint of 
veal, add four quarts water, and set it over to boil ; 
prepare one-fourth pound macaroni by boiling it in 
a dish by itself with enough water to cover it ; add a 
little butter when the macaroni is tender, strain the 
soup and season to taste with salt and pepper, then 
add the macaroni with the water in which it was boiled. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Mrs. H. C. Meredith, Cambridge City, Ind. 

For vermicelli soup, take a knuckle of lAmb, a small 
piece of veal, a small piece of ham and water to cover 
it all well ; when cooked, season with salt, pepper' and 
herbs to taste, and one small onion, to which may be 
added about one tablespoon of Halford or Worcester- 
shire sauce. Have ready about one-fourth of a pound 
of vermicelli which has been boiled tender, strain the 
soup from the meat, add the vermicelli, let boil well 
and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 285 



VEGETABLES. 



All vegetables are better cooked in soft water, pro- 
vided it is clean and pure. The fresher all vegetables 
are the more wholesome. After being well washed, 
they should lie in cold water half an hour before 
using, excepting green corn and peas, which should 
be husked or shelled, and cooked at once. Put all 
kinds into boiling water with a little salt in it, and 
cook until thoroughly done, draining well those that 
require it. Never split onions, turnips and carrots, 
but slice them in rings cut across the fibre, as they 
thus cook tender much quicker. Always add both 
salt and a little soda to the water in which greens are 
boiled. A little sugar added to turnips, beets, peas, 
corn, squash and pumpkin is an improvement, espe- 
cially when the vegetables are poor in quality. 
Sweet potatoes require a longer time to cook than 
the common variety. In gathering asparagus, never 
cut it off, but snap or break it ; in this way you do 
not get the white, woody part which no boiling can 
make tender. 

A piece of red pepper the size of the finger nail 
dropped into meat or vegetables, when first beginning 
to cook, will aid greatly in killing the unpleasant 

X8 



286 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

odor. Remember this for boiled cabbage, green 
beans, onions, mutton and chicken. 



ASPARAGUS. 
Wash well, put on stove in boiling water, boil five 
minutes, pour off water and add more boiling hot; 
put in a lump of butter, salt and pepper, (some stir 
in a thickening made of one teaspoon flour mixed up 
with cold water), cut and toast two or three thin 
slices of bread, spread with butter and put in a dish, 
and over them turn asparagus and gravy. The aspar- 
agus must be boiled about a half hour in all, and 
the water must be boiled down until just enough for 
the gravy, which is made as above. 

A GOOD BOILED DINNER. 

Put meat on, after washing well, in enough boiling 
water to just cover the meat; as soon as it boils, set 
kettle on the stove where it will simmer or boil very 
slowly ; boil until almost tender, put in vegetables in 
the following order : Cabbage cut up in quarters, tur- 
nips cut up in halves of medium size, and potatoes 
whole ; peel potatoes and turnips and allow to lie in 
cold water for half an hour before using. The meat 
should be well skimmed before adding vegetables ; 
boil together until thoroughly done (adding a little 
salt before taking out of kettle) when there should be 
left only just enough water to prevent from burning; 
take up vegetables in separate dishes, and lastly the 
meat; if there is any juice in the kettle, pour it over 



VEGETABLES. 287 

the cabbage. Boil cabbage three-quarters of an hour, 
turnips one-half hour, potatoes fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. A soup plate or saucer turned upside down, or 
a few iron tablespoons are useful to place in bottom 
of kettle to keep meat frbm burning. 

BEETS. 
Remove leaves, wash clean, being careful not break 
off the little fibres and rootlets as the juices would 
thereby escape ; boil in plenty of water, if young, two 
hours, if old four or five hours, trying with a fork to 
see when tender; take .out, drop in a pan of cold 
water, and slip off the skin with the hands ; slice 
those needed for immediate use, place in a dish, add 
pepper and cover with vinegar ; put those which re- 
■ main, into a stone jar whole, keep in a cool place, take 
out as wanted, slice, season, and send to table. A 
few pieces of horse radish put into the jar will pre- 
vent a white scum on the vinegar. To cook young 
beets for greens : Wash very clean, cut off tips of 
leaves, looking over carefully to see that no bugs or 
worms remain, but do not separate roots from leaves ; 
fill dinner pot half full of boiling water, throw in a 
handful of salt, add beets, boil from half to three- 
quarters of an hour ; take out and drain in colander, 
pressing down with a large spoon, so as to get all the 
water out. Dish and send to table to be eaten warm 
with vinegar, butter, salt and pepper. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Mrs. S. M. Guy. 
Beets retain their sugary delicate flavor much bet- 



288 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ter by baking instead of boiling ; turn often in the 
pan while in the oven, using a knife, as a fork 
would cause the juice to flow ; when done, remove 
skin, and season with butter, pepper and salt, after 
slicing, or if for pickle, slice into good cold vinegar. 

STRING BEANS. 
String, snap and wash two quarts beans, boil in 
plenty of water about fifteen minutes, drain off and 
put on again in about two quarts boiling water ; boil 
an hour and a half, and add salt and pepper just 
before taking up, stirring in one and a half table- 
spoons butter rubbed into two tablespoons flour. 
For shelled beans boil in water enough to cover half 
an hour and dress as above. 

ETNA'S STEWED CORN. 

Shave corn off the ear, being careful not to cut into 
the cob ; to three pints corn add three tablespoons 
butter, pepper and salt, and just enough water to 
cover ; place in a skillet, cover and cook rather slowly 
with not too hot a fire, from a half to three-quarters of 
of an hour, stir with a spoon often, and if necessary 
add more water, for the corn must not brown ; if de- 
sired, a few moments before it is done, add half cup 
sweet cream thickened with teaspoon flour ; boil well 
and serve with roast beef, escalloped tomatoes and 
mashed potatoes. 

DRIED CORN. 

For a family of eight, take a pint of corn, wash 
through one water, and put to soak over night in 
clean cold water ; (if impossible to soak so long, place 



VEGETABLES. 289 

over a kettle of hot water for two or three hours), 
when softened, cook five to ten minutes in water in 
which it was soaked, adding as soon as boiling, two 
tablespoons butter, one of flour, and a little salt and 
pepper. Another good way to finish is the following : 
Take the yolk of one egg, one tablespoon milk, pinch 
of salt, thicken with flour quite stiff so as to take out 
with a teaspoon, and drop in little dumplings not 
larger than an acorn ; cover tightly and cook five or 
ten minutes ; have enough water in kettle before 
adding dumplings, as cover should not be removed 
until dumplings are done. 

DRYING CORN. 
Select good ears of sweet corn, husk, take off" silk 
carefully, but do not wash ; shave with a sharp knife, 
not too close to the cob, into a large tin pan or wooden 
bowl, scrape cob to get all the milk of corn ; when 
about three quarts are cut off, line a large dripping- 
pan with flour sack paper, being careful to have sides 
and edges covered, pour in corn, spread, and put at 
once in moderate oven ; stir frequently and leave in 
oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Set a table out in 
the sun, cover with a cloth, pour the corn upon it and 
spread out evenly and thinly. Before sunset bring 
the corn in and spread on a table in the house ; in the 
morning heat again in oven and spread in sun as be- 
fore. If directions are closely followed, the corn will 
be thoroughly dried on the evening of the second 
day, and when shaken will rattle ; store in paper bag 
as soon as cooled. Prepare in small quantities, be- 



290 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

cause it must not stand long after being shaven, but 
should at once. go into oven to heat. When all dried 
put in oven for final heating ; place to cool, pour into 
the bag, tie closely, and hang in a cool, dry, dark 
place. 

PRESERVING CORN. 

Mrs. S. M. Guy. 

Scald the corn just enough to set the milk, cut 
from cob, to every four pints of corn add one pint 
salt, mix thoroughly, pack in jars, with a cloth and a 
weight over corn ; keep in any convenient place, and 
when wanted for use put in a stew pan or kettle, 
cover with cold water, as soon as it comes to a boil 
pour off and put on cold again, and repeat until it is 
fresh enough for taste, then add a very little sugar, 
sweet cream, or butter, etc., to suit taste. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER. 

Mrs. W. P. Anderson. 

To each half gallon water allow heaped tablespoon 
salt ; choose close and white cauliflower, trim off de- 
cayed outside leaves, and cut stock off flat at bottom ; 
open flower a little in places to remove insects which 
generally are found about the stalk, and let cauli-' 
flowers lie with heads downward in salt and water for 
two hours previous to dressing them, which will 
effectually draw out all vermin. Then put into boil- 
ing water, adding salt in above proportion, and boil 
briskly over a good fire keeping the saucepan un- 
covered. The water should be well skimmed ; when 
cauliflowers are tender, take up, drain, and, if large 



VEGETABLES. 291 

enough, place upright in dish ; serve with plain 
melted butter, a little of which may be poured over 
the flowers, or a cream dressing may be used. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. W. A. Croffut, New York City. 

Take a large, fresh cabbage and cut out the heart ; 
fill the vacancy with stuffing made of cooked chicken 
or veal, chopped very fine and highly seasoned and 
rolled into balls with yolk of egg. Then tie the cab- 
bage firmly together and boil in a covered kettle two 
hours. This is a delicious dish and is useful in using 
up cold meats. 

STEWED CABBAGE WITH EGGS. 
Slice down a head of cabbage, put in a stew-pan 
already prepared with a very little water ; butter, salt 
and pepper; cover and stew about twenty minutes, 
taking care not to let it burn ; beat and strain three 
eggs, add half cup good vinegar (beat while pouring 
in vinegar), then turn mixture on cabbage, stirring 
briskly all the time. Serve immediately. Sour cream 
may be used instead of eggs and vinegar. To fry, 
slice, season, cover, stir frequently and fry twenty 
minutes. 

EGG PLANT. 

Take the large purple kind, peel and cut in slices, 
put in salt water for fifteen minutes, drain and wipe 
dry ; make a light batter with one egg, flour and a 
little water, dip the slices into it and fry in butter or 
lard, Eggs and cracker may be used instead of the 
batter. 



292 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ITALIAN MACARONI. 

Mrs. Col. Clifford Thomson, New York City. 
Place two pounds of beef, well larded with strips of 
salt pork, and one or two chopped onions in a covered 
kettle on the back of the stove, until it throws out its 
juice and is a rich brown ; add a quart of tomatpes 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and allow this mixture 
to simmer for two or three hours. Take the quantity 
of macaroni desired and boil in water for twenty min- 
utes, after which put one layer of the boiled maca- 
roni in the bottom of a pudding dish, cover with some 
of the above mixture, then a layer of grated cheese 
and so on in layers till your dish is filled, having a 
layer of cheese on the top ; place in the oven an hour 
or until it is a rich brown. Commence early in the 
morning to prepare this dish. 

MACARONI. 

Take about three ounces macaroni and boil till 
tender in- a stew-pan with a little water ; take a pud- 
ding dish or pan, warm a little butter in it and put in 
a layer of macaroni, then a layer of cheese grated or 
cut in small bits, and sprinkle over with salt, pepper, 
and small pieces of butter, then add another layer of 
macaroni, and so on, finishing off with cheese ; pour 
on rich milk or cream enough" to just come to' the 
top of the ingredients, and bake from one-half to 
three-quarters of an hour. Rice may be used instead 
of macaroni by first cooking as follows : Pick and 
wash a cup of rice, put in a stew kettle with three 
cups boiling water and set over the fire, the boiling 



VEGETABLES. 293 

water makes ther kernels retain their shape better 
than when cold water is used ; when done, put a layer 
of rice, cheese, etc., alternately as you would mac- 
aroni, and bake in the same way. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Wash and peel, boil ten minutes, pour off this 
water, again add water, boil a few minutes and drain 
a second time ; pour on boiling water (each time it 
must be boiling), add salt and boil for one hour, 
drain in a colander, place in a dish to send to the 
table, and add butter and pepper. Or about half an 
hour before they are done, turn a quart of milk into 
the water in 'which they are boiling, and when tender 
season as above. Old onions require two hours to 
boil. To fry onions, slice and boil ten minutes each 
time in three waters, drain, fry, stir often, season and 
serve hot. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash clean, cut off the ends if you like, let stand 
in cold water a few hours, put into boiling water, cover 
and keep boiling constantly; after fifteen minutes 
throw in a handful of salt and boil another fifteen 
minutes; try with a fork and if it does not quite 
run through the potato they are done, (this is called 
" leaving a bone in them.") Drain, take to door or 
window and shake in open air to make them mealy ; 
return to stove and allow to stand uncovered for a 
moment. Or when washed bake in moderate oven 
fifty minutes — or place in a steamer for twenty min- 
utes over water kept constantly boiling. Bake 



294 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

sweet potatoes one hour; or place in a steamer 
over a kettle of boiling water; steam until almost 
done, (if fire is hot it will take half an hour,) scrape 
or pare them, place in an old dripping-pan and bake 
half an hour or fry. 

FRICASSEE OF OLD POTATOES. 
Slice cold boiled potatoes, put into a dripping pan, 
add milk, salt, pepper, and small lump of butter, al- 
lowing half a pint of milk to a dozen potatoes ; place 
in oven for about fifteen minutes, stir occasionally 
with a knife to keep from burning; should brown 
slightly on the top. To fry, slice and fry in butter 
or ham or beef drippings, using only enough fat to 
prevent sticking ; sprinkle with salt, cover with tin 
lid so that they may both fry and steam. 

FRIED RAW POTATOES. 
Pare and slice thin lengthwise of potatoes, let stand 
in cold or ice water several hours, drain in a colan- 
der, drop into as much boiling lard or drippings as is 
used for doughnuts, fry a light brown ; take out with 
a skimmer and lay in a dry colander, which place in 
a tin pan and set in op^n oven. Put in only as many 
as fry brown and not stick together, and use a deep 
basin Or the fat will boil over ; dredge with a little 
salt as you take them up, and they will be light and 
crisp. If not cooked enough at first, they are im- 
proved by dropping into fat for one minute, after 
standing in oven a while ; serve in a napkin or fringed 
tissue paper laid within a hot dish and folded lightly 
over them, as a dish cover would make them "soggy." 



VEGETABLES. 295 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Pare and boil till done, drain, and mash in the ket- 
tle until' perfectly smooth; add milk or cream and 
butter and salt ; beat like cake with a large spoon and 
the more they are beaten the nicer they become. Put 
in a dish, smooth, place a lump of butter in the cen- 
ter, sprinkle with pepper; or to brown them dip a 
knife in sweet milk, smooth over, wetting every part 
with milk and place in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
Or beat smooth the yolk of an egg, spread over po- 
tatoes and then brown. 

NEW POTATOES. 
Wash, scrape, boil ten minutes, turn off water and 
add boiling hot enough more to cover, also add a 
little salt ; cook a few moments, drain, and set again 
on stove, add butter, salt and pepper, and a little 
thickening made of two tablespoons flour in about a 
pint of milk; put on the cover, and when the milk has 
boiled, serve. Or, when cooked and drained put in 
skillet with hot drippings, cover, and shake till a nice 
brown. Young potatoes are nice for breakfast cooked 
in this way. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mix thoroughly with cold mashed potatoes left 
from dinner, the well beaten yolk, not white, of an 
egg, flour the hands and make into cakes as you 
would sausages, place in skillet greased with hot 
beef drippings, cover tightly, and in five minutes 
when lower side is browned, turn, remove cover, fry 
until the other side is a nice brown ; serve hot. 



296 THE BUCKEYB COOK BOOK. 

SARATOGA POTATOES 
Pare and cut into thin slices on a slaw-cutter four 
large potatoes (new are best) ; let stand in salt water 
while breakfast is cooking ; take a handful of the po- 
tatoes, squeeze the water from them and dry in a nap- 
kin ; separate the slices and drop a handful at a time 
into a skillet of boiling lard, taking care that they db 
not strike together, stir with a fork till they are a light 
brown color, take out with a wire spoon, drain well, 
and serve in an open dish. 

BAKED PARSNIPS. 
Put four thin slices salt pork in a kettle with two' 
quarts cold water, wash and scrape, and if large slice 
parsnips, and as soon as water boils place in kettle, boil 
about half an hour, place meat, parsnips and gravy in 
a dripping-pan, sprinkle with a little white sugar, and 
bake in oven a quarter of an hour, or until they are 
a. light brown, and the water is all fried out. Add a few 
potatoes if you like. Those left over fried in a hot 
skillet with butter, ham fat or beef drippings, make a 
nice breakfast dish. It is better to dip each slice 
in a beaten egg before frying. Parsnips are good in 
March and April, and make an excellent seasoning 
for soups. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Wash lightly two quarts shelled peas, put into 
boiling water enough to cover, boil twenty minutes, 
add pepper, salt,yand two tablespoons butter, (add 
more hot water when needed to pt^ent burning,) let 
<boil five minutes,' add two tablespoons butter rubbed 



VEGETABLES. 297 

into "two scant tablespoons flour, stir well, and boil 
five minutes. 

PEAS STEWED IN CREAM. 

Mrs. W. A. Croffut, New York City. 

Put two or three pints of young green peas into a 
sauce-pan of boiling water ; when nearly done and 
tender, drain in a colander quite dry ; melt two ounces 
of butter in a clean stew-pan, thicken evenly with a 
little flour, shake it over the fire, but do not let it 
brown, mix smoothly with a gill of cream, add half a 
teaspoonful of white sugar, bring to a boil, pour in 
the peas, keep rfioving for two minutes until well 
heated, serve hot. The sweet pods of young peas 
are made by the Germans into a palatable stew by 
simply stewing with a little butter and savory herbs. 

HOW TO BOIL RICE. 

Rice should be carefully picked over, and washed 
first in warm water, and rubbed between the hands, 
then five or six times in a good deal of cold water. 
It will not be white until it is well washed. Put one 
teacupful in a tin pan or porcelain kettle, add one 
quart boiling water and one teaspoon salt ; boil fifteen 
minutes, not stirring, but taking care that it does not 
burn ; pour into a dish and send to the table, placing 
a lump of butter in the center. Cooked thus the 
kernels remain whole. The Southern rice cooks 
much quicker and is nicer than the Indian rice. To 
boil ricg in milk, put a pint rice into nearly two quarts 
of cold milk an hour before dinner, add two teaspoons 
salt, boil very slowly and stir often ; ■ cook on back 



■Ma 



298 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

part of stove or range so as to avoid burning, and 
take it up into a mould or bowl wet in cold water a 
short time before serving. 

SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTER. 
Parboil after scraping off the outside, cut in slices, 
dip it into a beaten egg and fine bread crumbs, and 

fry in lard. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

When young and tender, wash, and put on whole 
in boiling water ; when thoroughly cooked, (half to 
three-quarters of an hour) drain through colander, 
pressing out all the water ; put back in kettle, stir and 
cook till dry, dress with butter, salt, pepper, and cream 
if you have it. If old and tough, peel, take out seeds, 
cut up and boil. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut up, take out inside, pare the pieces and stew 
in as little water as possible. A tin with holes in it, 
which will fit kettle and keep the squash from touch- 
ing the water, is best to steam with ; cook an hour, 
mash in kettle, and if watery let stand on the fire a 
few moments, mashing until it becomes dry : season 
with butter, salt and pepper ; be careful that it does 
not burn. Winter squashes are also cut up and baked 
in the oven. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take pint of shelled lima beans, (green") or string 
beans, cover with hot water, boil half an hour, have 
ready corn, cut from six good sized ears, and add 
to beans ; boil fifteen minutes, add salt, pepper, and 



VEGETABLES. 299 

two tablespoons butter. Be careful in cutting down 
corn not to cut too deep, — better not cut quite deep 
enough and then scrape ; after corn is added watch 
carefully to keep from scorching. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Wash one pint dried lima beans and one and a half 
pints dried corn ; put beans in kettle and cover with 
cold water ; cover corn with cold water in a tin pan, 
set on top of kettle of beans so that while the latter 
are boiling the corn may be heating and swelling ; 
boil beans fifteen minutes, drain off, cover with boil- 
ing water, and when tender (half an hour) add corn, 
cooking both together for fifteen minutes ; five min- 
utes before serving add salt, pepper and a dressing of 
butter and flour rubbed together, or one-half teacup 
cream or milk thickened with one tablespoon flour. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. S. Watson, Upper Sandusky. 

Twelve solid, smooth, ripe tomatoes, cut a thin 
slice from blossom side, with a teaspoon remove pulp 
without breaking shell ; take a small, solid head of 
cabbage and one onion, chop fine, add bread crumbs 
rubbed fine, and pulp of tomatoes, season with pep- 
per, salt and sugar, add a teacup good sweet cream, 
mix well together, fill tomatoes, put the slice back in 
its place, lay them stem end down in a buttered pie- 
pan with just enough water to keep from burning, 
bake half an hour. They make a handsome dish for 
a dinner table. 



300 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

MOTHER'S SLICED TOMATOES. 
Prepare fully half an hour before dinner, scald a 
few at a time in boiling water, peel, slice, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, set away in a cool place, or lay. 
a piece of ice on them. , Serve as a relish for dinner, 
either in their own liquor, or by adding vinegar and 
sugar. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Judge Cole. 

Scald by pouring boiling water over them, peel, 
and slice cutting out all defective parts ; place a lump 
of butter in a hot skillet, put in tomatoes, season with 
salt and pepper, kgep up a "brisk fire and cook as 
rapidly as possible, stirring with a spoon or chopping 
up with a knife, (in the latter case wipe the knife as 
often as used or it will blacken the tomatoes). Serve 
at once in a deep dish lined with toast. When iron is 
used, tomatoes must cook rapidly and have constant 
attention. If prepared in tin or porcelain they do 
not require the same care. 

TOMATOES IN BRINE. 

Mrs. R. S. Wilcox, Madison. 

Take enough^ smooth ripe tomatoes to fill a half 
barrel, wash carefully removing stems and blossoms, 
being very particular not to use any in which the skin 
is in the least broken ; make a brine of one pint salt 
and water enough to cover the tomatoes ; place on 
the top a board with heavy weight to keep them 
under the brine, but not enough to bruise them. Tie 
a cloth tightly over the tub to secure from flies. 



VEGETABLES. 301 

Will keep until, the next summer, and. are delicious 
to eat uncooked, with a little sugar only. 

TOMATO TOAST. 

Mrs. S. Watson. 

A quart of ripe stewed tomatoes, run through a 
colander, place in a porcelain stew pan, season with 
butter, pepper and salt, and sugar to taste ; cut slices 
of bread thin, brown on both sides, butter and lay on 
a platter ; just as the bell rings for tea add a pint of 
good sweet cream to the stewed tomatoes, and pour 
them over toast. 

TURNIPS. 

Wash, peel, cut in slices, and place in kettle and 
keep well covered with water ; boil from twenty to 
thirty minutes, or until you can easily pierce them 
with a fork ; drain well, season with salt, pepper and 
butter and mash fine. Do not boil too long, as they 
are much sweeter when cooked quickly. 



19 



302 THB BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



CENTENNIAL GOVERNORS. 



It was the plan of the Committee to give in this 
department, a recipe from the households of the 
President and each of the Centennial Governors of 
the States and Territories, and the following, have 
been received, with many kind wishes for the success 
of the enterprise. The States are arranged in the 
order of their admission into the Union. 



LEMON CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Gov. J. P. Cochran, Delaware, 1787. 

One pound sugar, quarter pound butter, four eggs, 
cup sweet milk, two crackers, two lemons ; beat but- 
ter and sugar together until light, add eggs beaten 
light, next grated crackers, then grated rind and 
chopped pith of lemon, and one cup milk, the juice 
of lemon to be added last. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

Mrs. Gov. J. D. Bedle, New Jersey,. 1787. 

One quart sifted flour, two large teaspoons cream 
yeast, one tablespoon lard, a little salt ; mix thor- 
oughly and add milk enough to stir nicely, roll out 



CENTENNIAL GOVERNORS. 303 

half an inch thick, cut the proper size, and bake in a 
hot oven. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Mrs. Gov. IngersoU, Connecticut, 1788. 
Boil six good mealy potatoes, mash very 'fine, beat 
well with the yolks of five eggs, half pound white 
sugar, quarter pound butter.; beat whites of eggs to 
stiff froth, add the grated rind and juice of one 
lemon, stir well and add a little salt and a pint of good 
milk or cream; bake an hour and a half; reserve 
some of the whites of eggs to ice the top. 

RICE CAKE. 

Gov. Rice, Massachusetts, 17S8. 

One pound sugar, a pound ground rice, half pound 
butter, nine eggs, rose water to your taste ; add a 
a little salt, beat butter and sugar together, add rose- 
water, salt and eggs, lastly the rice ; bake in shallow 
pans. 

BUFORD CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. D. H. Cliamberlain, South Carolina, 1788. 

One quart flour, a pint sugar, a cup butter, a cup 
sweet milk, foui;- eggs, spices of all kinds in small 
quantities, teaspoon saleratus, half pound raisins, half 
pound currants ; this quantity will make two large 
loaves. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Mrs. Gov. Cheney, New Hampshire, 1788. 

Yolks of two hard boiled eggs rubbed very fine and 
smooth, one teaspoonful of English mustard, one of 
salt, the yolks of two raw eggs beaten into the other, 



304 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

dessert spoonful of fine sugar. Add very fresh sweet 
oil poured in by very small quantities, and beaten as 
long as the mixture continues to thicken, then add 
vinegar till as thin as desired. ' If not hot enough 
with mustard, add a little cayenne pepper. 

TO KEEP CUT ROSES vFRESH. 

Gov. KemjSer, Virginia, 1788. 
Roses, camelias and all hard wooded flowers, such 
as are used for head-dresses, button-hole boquets, 
etc., may be kept fresh and their beauty preserved by 
the following plan: Cut stems off at right angles 
and apply hot sealing wax to the end of the stalk 
immediately ; this prevents the sap flowing down- 
wards, thereby preserving the flower. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Gov. Tilden, New York, 1788. 

Chop fine a leg or loin of veal, roll one dozen 
crackers, put half of them in the veal, with two eggs, 
pepper, salt, and butter size of an egg ; mix all to- 
gether and make into a solid form ; then take the 
crackers that are left and spread smoothly over the 
outside ; bake three-quarters of an hour and eat cold. 

ISINGLASS JELLY. 

Mrs. Gov. J. B. McCreary, Kentucky, 1792. 

Two ounces isinglass, five pints water, one and a 
half pounds sugar, the whites of three eggs well 
beaten ; season highly with cinnamon, orange peel, 
mace and good brandy ; after dissolving isinglass and 



CENTENNtAL GOVER*fORS. 305 

adding spices, let it boil fifteen minutes, strain through 
flannel bag, and when > nearly cool add the brandy. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. Porter, Tennessee, 1796. 

Three-quarters pound sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, whites twelve eggs, yolks of two, one teacup 
sweet milk, three teaspoons yeast powder, flour to 
suit ; beat yolks and half the sugar till very light, add 
whites and rest of sugar, butter, and flour enough to 
make a batter rather stiffer than pound cake. 

FRENCH PICKLE. 

Mrs. Gov. Hayes, Ohio, 1802. 

One peck green tomatoes sliced, six large onions 
sliced ; mix these and throw over them one one tea- 
cup of salt, and let them stand over night ; next day 
drain thoroughly and boil in one quart vinegar mixed 
with two quarts of water for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Then take four quarts, vinegar, two pounds 
brown sugar, one-half pound white mustard seed, two 
tablespoons ground allspice, and the same of cinna- 
mon, cloves, ginger, and ground mustard ; throw all 
together and boil fifteen minutes. 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. Hendricks, Indiana, 1816. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, half pound but- 
ter, eight eggs beaten separately, one nutmeg, one 
cup milk, two teaspoons yeast powder ; cream butter 
with half the flour, mix the yeast powder with the 
remaining portion of the flour, sift it into the batter. 



306 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

add the sugar and eggs which have been beaten to- 
gether, and put it all into the pans. 

MAINE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. Conner, Maine, 1820. 

Ten eggs, their weight in sugar and half their 
weight in flour ; beat the yolks with the sugar and 
flavor with lemon ; beat the whites to a stiff" froth and 
add them to the yolks and sugar ; sift the flour in and 
stir quickly ; it must not be beaten after flour is put 
in ; bake immediately. This will make two thick 
loaves in six by nine" pans. 

GOOD BREAD. 

Mrs. Gov. Hardin, Missouri, 1821. 

For four small loaves boil four large potatoes ; 
when done, pour off" the water, and when it cools add 
to it your yeast cake ; mash the potato very fine, put 
through a sieve, pour boiling milk on as much flour 
as you will need, let stand until cool, add the potato 
and yeast, a large teaspoon of salt and one tablespoon 
of sugar; stir very stiff", adding flour as is needed. 
Let stand in a warm place until light, dissolve one 
teaspoon of soda in a little hot water, mix well through 
with the hands, mold into loaves and let rise again. 
When sufficiently raised place in a moderately hot 
oven, keeping up a steady fire. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Gov. Stearns, Florida, 1845. 

Grated rind and juice of two oranges, four eggs, 
four tablespoons sugar and one of butter, bake only 



CENTENNIAL GOVERNORS. 307 

with a lower crust. In grating the rind of the orange 
use only outside or yellow part. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Gov. Coke, Texas, 1845. 

One quart seeded raisins, pint currants, half pint 
citron cut up, quart of apples peeled and chopped, a 
quart of fresh and nicely chopped beef suet, a heaping 
quart of stale bread crumbs, eight eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, pint sugar, grated nutmeg, teaspoon salt ; flour 
your fruit thoroughly from a quart of flour, then mix 
remainder as follows : In a large bowl or tray put the 
pggs with sugar, nutmeg and milk, stir in the fruit, 
bread crumbs and suet one after the other until all 
are used, adding enough flour to make the fruit stick 
together, which will take about all the quart ; dip 
your pudding cloth in boiling water, dredge on in- 
side a thick coating of flour, put in pudding and tie 
tightly, allowing room to swell, and boil from two to 
three hours m a good sized pot with plenty of hot 
water, replenishing as needed from teakettle. When 
. done, turn out in a large flat dish and send to table 
with a sprig of holly, or any bit of evergreen with 
bright berries, stuck in the top. Serve with any nice 
pudding sauce. This recipe furnishes enough for 
twenty people, but if the family is small, one-half the 
quantity may be prepared, or it is equally good 
warmed over by steaming. For sauce, cream a half 
pound sweet butter, stir in three-quarters pound 
brown sugar, and the beaten yolk of an egg ; simmer 
for a few moments over a slow fire, stirring almost 



308 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

constantly; when near boiling add a half pint bottled 
grape juice, and serve, after grating a little nutmeg 
on the surface. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. Kirkwood, Iowa, 1846. 

One pound flour, one of currants, one of raisins, 
one of sugar, half pound citron, half pound chopped 
figs, three-fourth pound butter, ten eggs, leaving out 
two whites, one teacup molasses, one of sour cream 
a,nd soda, one gill brandy or good whisky, one-half 
cup cinnamon, two tablespoons allspice and cloves, 
four tablespoons jam. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. Ludington, Wisconsin, 1848. 
Whites of ten eggs, a tumbler and half of pulver- 
ized sugar, one of flour, one heaping teaspoon cream- 
tartar, a pinch of salt ; put all through the sieve twice, 
then stir in lightly the eggs beaten to a stiff" froth, 
flavor with vanilla or rose, 

DELICIOUS PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. Gov. Irvirin, California, 1850. 

Cut a pumpkin into thin slices and boil until tender 
in as little water as possible, watching carefully that 
it does not scorch; set the stew kettle on top of stove, 
mash the pumpkin fine, heaping it against the sides of 
the kettle so that the water may drain from it and 
dry away, repeat this process until the water has all 
evEtporated, and the pumpkin will be "quite dry. This 
will require from a half to one hour. Mash and rub 
through a sieve, adding while warm a good sized 



CENTENNIAL GOVERNOKS. 309 

lump of butter ; to every quart of pumpkin after it is 
mashed add three quarts of milk and six eggs, the 
yolks and whites beaten separately, sugar to taste, 
one teaspoon salt, tablespoon ground cinnamon, one 
grated nutmeg, teaspoon ginger ; bake in a hot 
oven until well set and a nice brown. It is as well 
to heat the batter scalding hot, stirring constantly 
until it is poured into the pie dishes. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. Pillsbury, Minnesota, 1858. 

Two-thirds cup butter, two small cups sugar, one 
cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder, the yolks 
of five eggs, three small cups flour, bake in jelly tins. 
Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, juice and 
grated peel of one orange, sugar to consistency ; put 
this between the layers with white frosting on the top. 

ICED PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Gov. Grover, Oregon, 1859. 

Take two dozen sweet and half a dozen bitter 
almonds ; blanch in scalding water, throw into a bowl 
of cold water ; pound one at a time in a mortar, till 
they become a smooth paste, free from the smallest 
lumps. As you proceed, add frequently a few drops 
of rose water or lemon juice to make them light and 
prevent their oiling. Seed and cut in half a quarter 
of a pound of the best bloom raisins ; mix with them 
a quarter of a pound of Zante currants, picked, washed 
and dried, and add to the raisins and, currants three 
ounces of citron, chopped ; mix the citron with the 
ais ins and currants, and dredge them all with flour 



310 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

to prevent their sinking or clodding. Take a half 
pint of very rich milk, split a vanilla bean, and cut it 
into pieces two or three inches long, and boil it in the 
milk till the flavor of the vanilla is well extracted, 
then strain it out and mix the vanilla milk with a pint 
of rich cream, and stir in gradually a half pound of 
powdered loaf sugar and a nutmeg grated. Then 
add the pounded almonds, and a large wine glass of 
either marasquino, noyau, curacoa or the very best 
brandy. Beat in a shallow pan the yolks of eight 
eggs till very light, thick and smooth, and stir them 
gradually into the mixture. Simmer it over the fire, 
(stirring it all the time), but take it off just as it is 
about to come to a boil, otherwise it will curdle. 
Then, while the mixture is hot, stir in the raisins, 
currants and citron. Set it to cool, and then add a 
large teacupful of preserved strawberries or raspber- 
ries, half a dozen preserved apricots or peaches, half 
a dozen preserved green limes, and any other very 
nice and delicate sweetmeats ; whip to a stiff froth an- 
other pint of cream, and add it lightly to the mixture ; 
put the whole into a large melon mould that opens in 
the middle, and freeze it in the usual way. It will 
take four -hours to freeze it well. Do not turn it out 
till just before it is wanted, then send it to table on a 
glass dish. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. Gov. Osborn, Kansas, 1861. 

One ounce gelatine, one pint sweet milk, one of 
cream, four eggs, sugar to taste ; beat the sugar and 
yolks of eggs together until light, boil the gelatine in 



CENTENNIAL GOVEKNORS. 311 

the milk and strain over the eggs and sugar ; whip 
the Cream, which must be very cold, to a nice froth 
and add to the above ; flavor with vanilla; Line the 
dish you wish to serve it in with sponge cake, and 
pour the mixture in, then set it on ice till wanted. 

LEMON ICE. 

Mrs. Gov. Silas Garber, Nebraska, 1S67. 

Juice one dozen lemons, one gallon water, four 
pounds sugar, strain all into freezer-; for sherbet add 
the white of one egg beaten to a froth for each lemon. 
In making ices, if they are not well mixed before 
freezing, the sugar will sink to the bottom, and the 
mixture will have a sharp unpleasant taste. 

ENCHILADAS. 

Gov. Safford, Arizona, 1863. 

Put four pounds of corn in a vessel with four ounces 
lime, or in a preparation of lye ; boil with water till 
the hull comes off, then wash the corn (usually done 
by Mexicans on a scalloped stone made for grinding 
corn as was practiced by Rebecca), bake the meal in 
small cakes called "tortillas," then fry in lard ; take 
some red pepper ground, called '"chili colorad," mix 
with it sweet oil and vinegar, and boil together. This 
makes a sauce into which dip the tortillas, then 
break in small pieces cheese and onions, and sprinkle 
on top the tortillas, and you have what is called 
"enchiladas." Any one who has ever been in a Span- 
ish speaking country will recognize this as one of 
the national disheg, as much as the pumpkin pie is a 
New England specialty. 



<J12 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Gov. Potts, Montana, 1864. 

Three pounds seedless raisins, one and a half pounds 
citron, one pound butter, two and a half coffee cups 
sugar, two of sweet milk, six eggs, two large tea- 
spoons baking powder, three teaspoons cinnamon, two 
of mace, four cups flour. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Gov. Thayer, Wyoming Territory, 1868 

One-half package of Cox's gelatine, three eggs, 
one pint milk, two cups of sugar, juice of one lemon; 
soak the gelatine one hour in a teacup of cold water, 
add one pint boiling water, stir until thoroughly dis- 
solved, add two-thirds of the sugar and the lemon 
juice ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and when the gelatine is quite cold, whip it into the 
whites, a spoonful at a time, for at least an hour. 
Whip steadily and evenly, and when all is stiff, pour 
into a mold previously wet with cold water, and set / 
in a cold place. In four or five hours turn into a glass 
dish. Make a custard of the milk, yolk of eggs, and 
remainder of the sugar, flavor with vanilla or bitter 
almond, and when the meringue is turned out of the 
mold, pour this around the base. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND JIEASUKES. 313 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.* 



I quart of wheat flour (if sifted, heaping) . . weighs i ft). 

I " Indian meal " i ft). 2 oz. 

I " Soft butter " i lb. i oz. 

I " Loaf sugar .... . . . " i ft). 

I " White powdered sugar ... .• " t lib. i oz. 

I " Best brown sugar . . . " i ft). 2 oz. 

to eggs average size " i ft). 

8 sggs large size ... . . . " i H). 

1 pint granulated sugar . . ... . . " i ft). • 

2 good sized cups of soft butter . . . . " i ft). 

r I pint flour " 8 oz. 

I large tablespoon (a very little rounded) of 

flour, loaf sugar or butter . . . " X°^- 

LIQUIDS. 

I pint contains 16 fluid ounces (4 gills.) 
I ounce contains 8 fluid drachms (JS^ giU-) 
I tablespoon contains about )4 fluid punce. 
I teaspoon conlaius about i fluid drachm. 
A teaspoonful is equal in volume to 45 drops of pure water (distilled) 
at 60 deg. Fah. Teaspoons vary so much in size that there is a very 
wide margin of difference' in their containing capacity. 
4 Teaspoonfuls equal i tablespoon or J4 fluid ounce. 
16 Tablespoonfuls " }4 P™'' 
I Wine glass full (common size) equals 4 tablespoons or 2 fluid oz. 
I Teacupful equals 4 fluid ounces or i gill. 
4 Teacupfuls equal i quart. 
A common sized tumbler holds }4 piut- 

AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. 
Used in weighing coarse and heavy articles and groceries. 
16 drams (dr.) make i ounce (oz.) 
16 ounces make i pound (lb.) 
25 pounds make I quarter (qr.) 
Four quarters make one hundred weight (cwt.) 
Twenty hundred weight make i ton (T.) 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

Four gills (gi. ) make one pint (pt. ) 
Two pints make one quart (qt. ) 
Four quarts make one gallon (gal.) 

* Allo-wance to be made for extraordinary dryness or moisture of the article 
to be weighed or measured. 



314 



THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



COOKS' TIME TABLE. 







S 



Apples, sbur, hard . . . 
Apples, sweet and mellow 

Beans, (pod) 

Beans with green corn . 
Beef. ... 
Beefsteak . . . 

Beefsteak 

Beef, salted 

Bass, fresh . . 
Beets, young . 

Beets, old 

Bread, corn 

Bread, wheat 

Butter 

Cabbage ... . . 

Carrot, orange . 
Cabbage and vinegar . . 
Cabbage . . 
Cake, sponge . 
Cheese, old. . . 
Chicken .... . . 

Codfish, dry and whole . . 
Custard, (one quart) . . . 

Duck, tame 

Duck, wild 

Dumpling, apple . 

Eggs, hard 

Eggs, soft 

Eggs 

Eggs 



Fowls, domestic, roasted or 

Gelatine 

Goose, wild 



H. M' 



Raw 

Raw 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Broiled 

Fried 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Boiled 



Baked 

Baked 

Melted 

Raw 

Boiled 

Raw 

Boiled 

Baked 

Raw 

Fricasseed 

Boiled 

Baked 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fried 

Raw 

Whipped 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Roasted 



1 oo 
45 

■ 25 
IS 
15 
35 
20 

2 00 
4 30 

45 
60 



I op 

45 

I 00 

* 15 

30 

I 30 

60 

I 00 

10 

3 

5 



2 so 

1 50 

2 30 

3 45 
3 00 

3 00 

4 CXI 

4 15 
3 00 
3 45 

3 IS 
3 3° 
3 30 

2 30 

3 IS 
2 00 

4 30 

2 30 

3 30 

45 
00 

45 
00 

5° 
00 

3° 
00 

30 
00 

30 
00 
30 
30 



COOKS TJMI-; TABLE. 



315 





-o i 


■^ « 


•^ § 












V a 


aj 'Z 


4J 1^ 




■a Jj 


s -i 


B « 






H 6 














H. M. 


H. M 


Lamb ... ... 


Boiled 


* 20 


2 30 


Meat and vegetables 


Hashed 


30 


2 30 


Milk ... 


Raw 


. . . 


2 IS 


Milk . . . . 


Boiled 




2 -OO 


Mutton .... 


Roast 


* 25 


3 "S 


Multoii ,. . . 


Broiled 


20 


3 00 


Oysters . . ... 


Raw 




2 5S 


Oysters 


Roasted 




3 IS 


Oysters . . . 


Stewed 


5 


3 30 


Parsnips . .... 


Boiled 


I 00 


2 30 


Pig's feet 


Soused 




I 00 


Pork . .... 


Roast 


* 30 


S IS 


Pork 


Boiled 


* ^5 


4 30 


Pork, raw or 


Fried 




4 IS 


Pork . . ... 


Broiled 


20 


3 15 


Potatoes 


Boiled 


3° 


3 30 


Potatoes 


Baked 


45 


3 30 


Potatoes 


Roasted 


45 


2 30 


Rice . . 


Boiled 


20 


I 00 


Salmon, fresh 


Boiled 


S 


I 45 


Sausage . 


Fried 


25 
20 


4 00 
3 30 


Sausage .... 


Broiled 


Soup, barley , . 


Boiled 


3 00 


I 30 


Soup, bean 


Boiled 




3 °° 


Soup, vegetable 


Boiled 


[ 00 


4 00 


Soup, chicken . .... 


Boiled 


2 00 


3 °° 


Soup, oysters or mutton. 


Boiled 


t3 30 


3 30 


Tapioca . . 


Boiled 


I 30 


2 00 


Troui,. salmon, fresh, boiled or . . . 


Fried 


30 


I 30 


Turkey, hoiled or . . 


Roasted. 


* 20 


2 30 


Turnips ... 


Boiled 


45 


3 30 


Veal 


Broiled 


20 


4 00 


Veal. 


Fried 


30 


4 30 


Vegetables and meat . 


Warmed 


10 


3 30 


Venison Stealc 


Broiled 


20 


I 35 



* ]\liiintcs to the pound, 

-]- Mntioii soup. 

The tii'ie triven is the g-eneral average; may require e longer or shorter time, 
owing to the quality of the article to be cooked. 



316 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



Spring Breakfast— Cold boiled ham, veal cutlets, boiled eggs, 
potatoes with cream, muffins, Graham bread, corn bread, oranges, 
coffee, tea, chocolate. 

Spring Dinner — Macaroni soup, baked fish with dressing and 
sauce, boiled ham, roast veal, asparagus, potatoes, spinach, lettuce, 
radishes, coffee. Dessert — Sponge cake pudding, lemon pie, cocoannt 
pie, lemonade. 

Spring Supper — Pickled tongue, pressed beef, waffles with maple 
syrup, spiced peaches, chow chow, canned fruit, preserves, cake, 
coffee, tea. 

Summer Breakfast — Mutton chops, mackerel, beefsteak, potato 
balls, egg omelet, Graham toast, cold biscuit, rolls, tea, coffee, fruit. 

Summer Dinner — Vegetable soup, roast lamb with mint sauce, 
currant jelly, broiled chicken, roast tongue, potatoes, peas, tomatoes, 
cauliflower, apple sauce, cucumber. Dessert — Snow pudding, cherry 
pie, sweet meat tarts, fruit, iced tea, iced coffee. 

Summer Supper — Chicken salad, cold tongue, biscuit, tomato toast, 
baked sweet potatoes, mixed pickles, Charlotte russe, fruit, orange 
jelly, pine apple, ice cream, cake, iced tea. 

Autumn Breakfast — Broiled beef, codfish balls, tomatoes, roast 
potatoes, hominy, biscuit, corn muffins, tea, coffee. 

Autumn Dinner — Roast duck, roast beef, chicken pie, sweet po- 
tatoes,. Irish potatoes, corn, squash, apple sauce, cold slaw, pickles. 
Dessert — Boiled fruit pudding, peach pie, cheese, ice cream, grapes, 
tea, coffee. 

Autumn Supper — Broiled pheasant, chicken croquettes, bread, 
rusk, spiced peiaches, fruit, preserves, cake. 

Winter Breakfast — Beefsteak, sausage, broiled ham, Saratoga 
potatoes, fried mush, buckwheat cakes, coffee, tea, chocolate. 



BILLS OP FARE. 317 

Winter Dinner — Oyster soup, roast turkey, boiled ham, oyster 
pie, onions, turnips, sweet and -Irish potatoes, cranberry sauce, celery. 
Dessert — Queen of puddings, cheese, mince pie, plum pudding, fruit' 
nuts, coffee. 

Winter Supper — Fried oysters, chicken salad, raw oysters, chow- 
chow, biscuit, canned fruit, cake, tea. 

Lunch No. i. — Escalloped oysters, chicken salad, ham sandwich, 
biscuit, mixed pickles, cheese, basket of mixed cakes, ice cream, nuts, 
fruit, chocolate, tea, coffee. 

Lunch No. 2. — Buttered bread, crackers, cold chicken, sardines 
with sliced lemons, cheese, olives, pickles, tongue, Saratoga potatoes, 
cake, jelly, jumbles, fruit, orange or lemon ice, tea, coffee, chocolate. 

Tea for Company — Escalloped oysters, cold tongue, chicken 
salad, muffins, bread, rusk, canned fruit, pickles, coffee, tea. Ice cream 
and cake later in the evening. 

Tea for Company — Warm biscuit, ham sandwich, sardines with 
sliced lemons, pickles, pressed beef, chicken, fruit, preserves and 
cream, cake in variety, tea, coffee, chocolate, lemon ice. 

Economical Breakfast No. i. — Ham and eggs, hash, baked po- 
tatoes, hominy, Graham gems, coffee. 

Economical Breakfast No. 2. — Beefsteak or fish, fried Graham 
mush, tomatoes, potatoes, apple sauce, corn bread or toast, coffee. 

Economical Dinner No. i. — Spare ribs, roast potatoes, cabbage, 
fruit, rice pudding. 

Economical Dinner No. 2. — Codfish, egg sauce, mashed potatoes, 
parsnips, horse-radish, pickles, bread, custard pie. 

Economical Dinner No. 3. — Boiled pork, beans, potatoes, greens, 
apple pie. 

Economical Dinner No. 4. — Fish, potato cakes, baked tomatoes, 
bread pudding. 

Economical Dinner No. 5. — Boiled beef, lima beans, boiled 
potatoes, squash, sliced tomatoes, apple tapioca pudding. 

Economical Dinner No. 6. — Roast beef and potatoes, macaroni 
with cheese, lemon pie. 

Economical Dinner No. 7. — Broiled chicken, fricasseed potatoes, 
turnips, tomato toast, fresh fruit. 



In preparing for a company of twenty, allow one gallon of oysters, four 
chickens and six bunches of celery for chicken salad, fifty sandwiches and six 
quarts of ice cream, two quarts wine jelly, two moulas Charlotte russe. 



20 



318 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



FRAGMENTS. 



HOW MOTHER MAKES HASH. 
Mother's hash doesn't taste of soap grease, rancid butter, spoiled 
cheese, raw flour, boarding house skillets, hotel coffee, garden garlics, 
bologna sausage, or cayenne pepper, neither is it stewed and simmered 
and simmered and stewed, but is made so nicely, seasoned so delicately, 
and heated through so quickly, that the only trouble is, " there is never 
enough to go round." Mother says cold meat of any kind will do, 
but that corned beef is best ; always remove all surplus fat, and bits, 
of gristle, chop fine, and to one-third of meat add two-thirds of 
chopped cold boiled potato, and one onion chopped very fine ; place 
in your dripping-pan, season with salt and pepper, dredge with a little 
flour, and pour in at the side of the pan, enough water to come up level 
with the hash, place in oven and do not stir; when the flour is a light 
brown, and has formed a sort of crust, take out of oven, add a lump 
of butter, stir it through several times, and you will have a delicious 
hash. Or it may be made by cooking longer, of cold raw potatoes, 
which peel, slice, and let lie in salt and water a half hour before chop- 
ping ; or meat and potatoes, always in the proportions given above, and 
before chopping, season with pepper and salt, add a chopped onion if 
you like, place in hot skillet, with just enough water to moisten, add 
a. little butter or some nice beef drippings, stir often until warmed 
through, cover and let stand on a moderately hot part of the stove fif- 
teen minutes. When ready to dish run your knife under and fold as 
you would an omelet; serve hot with tomato catsup. In making hash 
meats may be combined if there is not enough of a kind. Do not 
make hash or any other dish greasy. It is a mistaken idea to think 
that fat and butter in large quantites are necessary to good cooking. 
Butter and oils may be melted without changing their nature, but when 
cooked they become much more indigestible and injurious to weak 
stomachs. Mother says that 

AFTER THANKSGIVING DINNER 
Most excellent hash may be made thus : Pick meat off turkey bones, 
shred it in small bits, add dressing and pieces of Ught biscuit cut up 
fine, mix together and put into dripping pan, pour over any gravy 



FRAGMENTS. 319 

that was left, add water to thoroughly moisten but not enough to make 
it sloppy, place in a hot oven for twenty minutes, and when you eat it, 
you will agree that the turkey is better this time than it was at first ; or 
warm the remnants of turkey over after the style of escalloped oysters, 
(first a layer of bread crumbs, then minced turkey, and so on); or add 
an egg or two and make nice breakfast croquettes. The common 
error in heating over meats of all kinds, is putting into a cold skillet, 
and cooking a long time. This second cooking is more properly only 
heating, and should be quickly done. All such dishes should be 
served hot with some sort of tart jelly. Mother always saves a can 
of currant juice, (after filling all her jelly cups and glasses), from 
which to make jelly in the winter, and it tastes as fresh and delicious 
as when made in its season. 

ALWAYS SAVE 
All the currants, skimmings, pieces, etc., left after making jelly, 
place in a stone jar, cover with soft water previously boiled to purify 
it, let stand several days, in the meantime take your apple peelings 
without the cores, and put on in porcelain kettle, cover with water, 
boil twenty minutes, drain into a large stone jar ; drain currants also 
into this jar;" add all the rinsings from your molasses jugs, all dribs of 
syrup, etc., and when jar is full drain off all that is clear into vinegar 
keg, (where, of course, you have some good cider vinegar to start 
with), if not sweet enough add brown sugar or molasses, cover the 
bung hole with a piece of coarse netting, and set in the sun or by the 
kitchen stove. In making vinegar always remember to give it plenty 
of air, and it is better to have the cask or barrel (which should be of 
oak) only half full so that the air may pass over as large a surface as 
possible. Vinegar must also have plenty of material such as sugar, 
molasses, etc., to work upon. Never use alum or cream of tartar as 
some advise, and never let your vinegar freeze. Paint your barrel or 
cask if you would have it durable. Company, sickness or other cir- 
cumstances may prevent making 

SWEET PICKLES 
in their season, but they can be prepared very nicely at any time by 
taking pear, peach, plum or apple preserves, and pouring hot spiced 
vinegar over them ; in a few days they will make a delightful relish. 
It very often happens in putting up cucumber pickles that you can only 
gather or buy a few at a time ; these can be easily pickled in the fol- 



320 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

lowing manner : Place in a jar, sprinkle with salt, in the proportion of 
a pint salt to a peck cucumbers, cover with boiling water, let stand 
twenty-four hours, drain, cover with fresh hot water ; after another 
twenty-four hours, drain, place in a jar and cover with cold, not very 
strong vinegar ; continue to treat each mess in this manner, using the 
two jars, one for scalding and the other as a final receptacle for the 
pickles, until you have enough, when drain and cover with boiling 
cider vinegar, add spices, and in a few days they will be ready for use 
Never throw away even 

A CEUMB OF BREAD, 
but save it and put with other pieces ; if you have a loaf about to 
mold, cut in thin slices, place all together in a dripping-pan and set in 
oven to dry, and you will find that when pounded and rolled, it will be 
very nice for dressing, stuffing, puddings, griddle cakes, etc. Keep in 
a covered box, or in a paper bag tied securely and hung in a dry place. 
Mother thinks it is much more economical to prepare meats with a 
dressing of some kind, since they " go so much further." 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK 
Is as nice for dinner as a much more expensive roast, and it can be 
prepared from a rather poor flank or round steak ; pound well, season 
witri salt and pepper, then spread with a nice dressing — may use some 
of the bread crumbs — roll up and tie closely with twine (which al- 
ways save from the grocer's parcels), put in a kettle with a quart boil- 
jng water, boil slowly one hour, take out and place in dripping pan, 
adding water in which it was boiled, basting frequently until a nice 
brown and making gravy of the drippings ; or you may put it at once 
into dripping pan, omitting the boiling process, skewer a couple slices 
salt pork on top, add a very little water, baste frequently and if it bakes 
too rapidly, cover with a dripping pan. It is delicious sliced dovim 
cold. 

HOW TO MAKE NICE GRAVY 
Is a problem many housekeepers never solve. Remember that grease 
is not gravy, neither is raw flour. Almost any kind of meat liquor or 
soup stock from which all fat has been removed, may be made into 
nice gravy by simply adding a little seasoning and some thickening ; 
if browned flour is used for the latter the gravy will require but little 
cooking, but when thickened with raw flour it must cook until thor- 
oughly done or the gravy will taste like so much gummy paste. It is 



FRAGMENTS. 321 

best to brown a quart of flour at a time. Put in a skillet, set in the oven 
or on top of the stove, stir often until it is a light brown, put into a 
wide mouthed bottle, cork and keep for use. All gravies should be 
well stirred over a rather hot fire as they must be quickly made, and 
must boil not simmer. Mother says 

THE CARE OF FAT AND DRIPPINGS 
is as necessary in any family as the care of last year's garden seeds or 
the " Family Record." Especially when much meat is used, there is 
a constant accumulation of trimmings of fat, drippings from meats, etc., 
which should be tried out once in two or three days in summer — in win- 
ter once a week will do. Cut up in small pieces, put in skillet, cover, 
and try out slowly, stir occasionally , and skim well ; add the cakes of 
fat, saved from the top of your meat liquor, slice a raw potato and cook 
in it to clarify it, drain all the clear part into a tin can or stone jar, and 
you will find it very nice to use either alone or with butter and lard in 
frying potatoes, dough-nuts, etc. The fat of mutton should always be 
tried out by itself, and used for chapped hands and such purposes. The 
fat which is not nice enough for any of the above uses, should be tried 
out and placed in a jar, kettle or cask of strong lye, to which all soap 
grease should be consigned. Observe never to use for this purpose 
lean meat or raw fat. Keep a stick with which to stir occasionally. It 
will need but little boiling to make the best of soft soap. Mother has 
many other valuable ideas on how to stop the numberless little " leaks " 
which keep many a family in want, whereas a little care and economy 
in these minor details would insure a fair competency, but she thinks 
it better to have the ideas she has already given thoroughly digested 
before clogging them with others. She says a neat, clean home, a tidy 
table, and well cooked, pfilatable meals, are safeguards against the 
evils of the ale house, the liquor saloon, and the gambling table, and 
whether or not this is wholly true, there seems reason in it. By the way 
she has just taken up^a oaper from which she reads this item by 
Prof. Blot: " TeS^i^ is 9arried on so far and so extensively in Amer- 
ican kitchens that it will soon be one of the common sciences." 
" Just as I told you," says mother, then folding her hands complacently 
together, she looks down at the bright figures of the carpet, and repeats 
in her slow measured way, "After all, whether we save or spend, the 
life is more than meat, and the body more than raiment." 



322 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 



Always keep the room carefully ventilated, since pure air is a great 
restorative of health and strength, but never allow a draft or current 
of air to pass directly over the bed of the patient. Everything should 
be kept in perfect neatness and order. , Matting is better than a carpet 
on the floor of a sick room, though wh^n the' latter is used it maybe 
kept clean by throwing a few damp tea leavgs over only a part of the 
room at a time, then quietly brushing them» up with a hand broom. 
The bed linen, also the linen next the person, should be frequently 
changed, always airing it well, either in the hot sun or by the stove. 
Wash and refresh the patient whenever, suitable, brush the teeth and 
hair, bathing the latter with bay rum ; all this to be modified, of 
course, by the strength of the patient and the directions of the medical 
attendant. Besides these, a table not liable to injury, a small wicker 
basket with compartments to hold the different bottles of medicine, 
and a small book in which to Write all the physician's directions, two 
baskets made on the same plan to hold glasses or cups, screens to 
shade the light from the eyes of the patient, a nursery lamp with which 
to heat water, beef tea, etc., a quill tied on the door handle with which 
the nurse can notify others that the patient is asleep, by merely passing 
the feather end through the key-hole, several, "ring cushions" to 
give relief to patients compelled to lie continually in one ppsition, 
(these cushions are circular pieces of old linen sewed together and 
stuffed with bran), and a sick couch or chair, are a few of the many 
conveniences which ought to be in every sick room. 

The following recipe makes a delicious refreshing and cooling wash 
in the sick room : 

Take of rosemary, wormwood, lavender, rue, sage and mint, a Urge 
handful of each. Place in a stone jar, and turn over it one gallon of 
strong cider vinegar, cover -closely, and keep near the fire for four 



HINTS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 323 

days, then strain, and add one ounce of pounded camphor gum. 
Bottle and keep tightly corked 

There is a French legend connected with this preparation (called 
vinaigre a quatre voleitrs). During the plague at Marseilles, a band 
of robbers plundered the dying and the dead without injury to them- 
selves. They were imprisoned, tried, find condemned to die, but 
were pardoned on condition of disclosing the secret whereby they 
could ransack houses infected with the terrible scourge. They gave 
the above recipe. Another mode of using it is to wash the face and 
hands with it before exposing one's self to any infection. It is very 
aromatic and refreshing in the sick room; so, if it can accomplish 
nothing more, it is of great value to housekeepers. 

FOOD FOR THE SICK 

Should always be prepared in the neatest and most careful manner, and 
the dishes and articles used should be kept entirely by themselves. 
Never tempt the appetite of the sick, since the cessation of the appetite 
is nature's warning that food is not needed. When the appetite begins 
to return, surprise the patient with some nice delicacy properly pre- 
pared. Special wants of the body show themselves in special cravings 
for certain articles of food. These should be gratified whenever possi- 
ble. Watermelons act on the kidneys and are good in many cases of 
fever, bowel complaint, etc. Celery also is good in some diseases of 
the kidneys. Fresh, crisp raw cabbage, sliced fine and eaten with 
good vinegar is easily digested, and often highly relished by a patient 
suffering from a "weak stomach." New cider is also excellent in 
many cases of nervous dyspepsia. Fruits and berries, raw, ripe and 
perfect, used in moderation, are admirable remedies in cases of con- 
stipation and its attendant diseases. The grape has a wide range of 
curative qualities. The seeds are excellent for costiveness, the pulp is 
very nutritious and soothing to irritated bowels, while the skin if 
chewed act as an astringent. Raw beef is excellent in dysentery; it 
should be minced very fine, and given in doses of a spoonful at a time 
every four hours, the patient in the meantime eating nothing else. 
Bananas are good in chronic diarrhoea. A rind of bacon is good for 
teething children to chew. Rice water, or rice jelly are advisable in 
many cases of convalescence from acute fever, summer complaint 
and like diseases. Gelatine and isinglass are delicate and easily 
digested. Buttermilk is good in all bilious diseases. Vegetable acid 



324 THE BCCKE^XE COOK BOOK. 

drinks, herb teas, toast water, and all such drinks are often much 
relished. Buttered toast, either dry or dipped, though so generally 
given, is rarely a suitable article for the sick, as melted oils are very 
difEcult of digestion. In quinsy, diptheria, inflammation of lungs, 
typhus and other putrid fevers, acids are of very great benefit. Take a 
handful of dried currants, pour over them a pint of boiling water, let 
them stand half a minute without stirring, then drain off the water, 
strain it through a cloth, and set it away to cool ; when given to the 
patient dilute well, so that the acid taste is very slight. 

Arrow-root Custard. — One tablespoon of arrow-root, one pint 
of milk, one egg, two tablespoons sugar ; mix the arrow-root with a 
little of the cold milk ; put the rest of milk on the fire and boil, and 
stir in the arrow-root, egg and sugar well beaten together ; scald and 
pour into cups to cool ; any flavoring the invalid prefers may be added. 

Alum Whey. — Mix half ounce of powdered alum with one pint 
sweet milk, strain and add sugar and nutmeg : it is good in hemor- 
hages, and sometimes for colic. 

Beef Tea. — Cut pound best lean steak, in small pieces, place in 
glass fruit jar, (a perfect one) cover tightly and set in a pot of cold 
water; heat gradually to a boil, and continue this steadily three or four 
hours until the meat is like white rags and the juice thoroughly ex- 
tracted ; season with very little salt, and strain through a wire strainer; 
Serve either warm or cold. To prevent jar toppling over, tie a string 
around the top part, and hang over a stick laid across the top of pot. 
When done set kettle off stove and let cool before removing the jar 
and in this way prevent breakage. Or when beef tea is wanted for 
immediate use, place in a common pint bowl (yellow ware) add very 
little water, cover with a saucer, and place in a moderate oven ; if 
danger of burning add a little more water. 

Barley Water. — Add two ounces pearl barley to half pintboihng 
water ; let simmer five minutes, drain and add two quarts boiling water ; 
add two ounces sliced figs and two ounces stoned raisins ; boil until 
reduced to a quart ; strain for drink. 

Chicken Broth for Sick. — Take the first and second joint of a 
chicken, boil in one quart of waler till very tender and season with a 
very little salt and pepper. — Miss M. £. jfohnson. 

Egg Gruel. — Beat the yolk of an egg with tablespoon of sugar, 
beating the white separately ; add a teacup of boiling water to the 
yolk, then stir in the white and add any seasoning ; good for a cold. 

Fever Drink. — Pour cold water on wheat bran, let boil half an 
hour, strain and add sugar and lemon juice. Or pour boiling water 
on flax seed, let stand till it is ropy, pourinto hot lemonade and drink. 

Graham Gems For Invalids. — Mix graham flour with half milk 
and half water, add a little salt, beat, making the batter thin enough 



hiiJts for the sick room. 325 

to pour ; have the gem pan very hot, grease it, fill as quickly as possi- 
ble and return immediately to a hot oven ; bake about thirty minutes. 
Practice will teach just the proper consistency of ihe batter, and the 
best temperature of the oven. It will not be good unless well beaten. 

Jellice. — One-half teaspoon currant or cranberry jelly put into a 
goblet, beat well with two tablespoons water, fill up with ice water 
and you have a refreshing drink for a fever patient. 

Mulled Butter Milk. — Put in good butter milk and when it 
boils, add the well beaten yolk of an egg. Let boil up and serve. 
Or stir into boiling butter milk thickening made of cold butter milk 
and flour. This is excellent for convalescing patients. 

Milk Porridge. — Place on stove in skillet one pint new sweet milk 
and a very little pinch of salt, when it boils, have ready sifted flour, 
and sprinkle with one hand into the boiling milk, stirring all the while 
with a spoon. Keep adding flour until it is about the consistency of 
thick molasses ; eat warm with a little butter and sugar. This is ex- 
cellent for children suffering with summer complaint. Or, mix the 
flour wiih a little cold milk, until a smooth paste, and then stir into 
the boiled milk. Or, break an egg into the, dry flour and rub it with 
the hands until it is all in fine crumbs (size of a grain of wheat) , then 
stir this mixture into the boiling milk. 

Oat Meal for the Sick — Mix a tablespoon of meal with a little 
cold water till perfectly smooth, pour gradually into a pint of 
boiling water, and boil slowly for twenty or thirty minutes, stirring 
almost constantly ; do not let it scorch ; season with a little salt, 
sugar, spice of any kind if desired, and brandy or wine if the nature 
of the case will permit. 

Panada. — Take two richest crackers, pour on boiling water, let 
stand a few minutes, beat up an egg, sweeten to taste, and stir all to- 
gether ; grate in nutmeg and add brandy or wine to suit the invalid. 
Or, boil a mixture of one-fourth wine and three-fourths water, agid 
flavor with lemon, then break in toasted bread. 

Raspberry Vinegar — Pour over two quarts of raspberries in a 
stone jar, one quart of the very best vinegar; let stand twenty-four 
hours, strain, and pour liquor over fresh fruit, and let stand in the 
same way; allow one pound sugar to a pint of juice ; put into a slone 
jar and set in pot of boiling w?ter one hour ; skim well, put into 
bottles, cork and seal tight. Diluted with water this is very nice for 
the sick. Toast bread may be eaten with it. 

Raspberry Relish — ^To each pint of berry juice add one pound of 
sugar. Let it stand over night ; next morning boil ten minutes, and 
bottle for use. — Mrs. W. G. Hillock, New Castle, Ind. 

Currant Shrub. —Make the same as jelly, but boil only ten min- 
utes; when cool, bottle and cork tight, (see directions for canned fruits). 
Raspberiy, strawberry and blackberry shrubs are made in the same 
way; when used, put in two-thirds ice water. 



326 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

Sassafras Drink — Take the pith of sassafras boughs, break in 
small pieces and let soak in cold water till the water becomes glu- 
tinous. ' This is good nourishment and much relished. i 
Toast Tea — Toast bread very brown, pour on boiling water, 
strain and add cream and sugar, and nutmeg if desired. 

Tamarind Whey — Mix an ounce of tamarind pulp with a pint 
of milk, strain and sweeten. Or, simply stir a tablespoon of tama- 
rinds into a tumbler of cold water. 

Vegetable Soup — Two tomatoes, two potatoes, two onions, and 
one tablespoon rice ; boil the whole in one quart of water for one 
hour, season with salt, dip dry toast in this till quite soft, and eat ; 
this may be used when animal food is not allowed. 

Wine Whey — One pint of boiling milk, two wine glasses of wine, 
boil a moment stirring well, take out the curd, sweeten and flavor 
the whey. 

Wheat Gruel — Take a double handful of flour, tie up tightly in a 
cloth and put in a kettle of boiling water, boil from three to six hours, 
take out, remove cloth and you will have a hard round ball. Keep 
in a dry cool place, and when wanted for use, prepare by placing 
some sweet milk (new always preferable) to boil, and grating into the 
milk from the ball enough to make it as thick as you desire, stirring it 
just before removing from the stove with' a stick of cinnamon, this gives 
it a pleasant flavor ; put a little salt into' the milk. Very good for 
children having summer complaint. 

Excelsior Blackberry Wine — To one quart of pure juice 
add two quarts of clear, cold water, and one and one-half 
pounds of coffee sugar (C or B grade.) The best berries make 
the best wine, the Lawton being preferred. Mash thoroughly, ad- 
ding a smallq uantity of water to extract all the juice from the berries, 
first measuring and making a correct account of the water m order 
to ascertain the exact amount of juice obtained. It is safe to use 
one pint of water to one quart of berries for this purpose. When 
the fruit is all mashed and pressed, strain the juice, deduct the amount 
of water used in washing the pumice, and the remainder will be the 
the exact quantity of juice. Knowing this you can add water in the 
proportion given above, including the water already in the iuice. Meas- 
ure the whole quantity of watered juice which is to be wine, add sugar 
as above, put it in an open vessel, (a stone jar is best for small quanti- 
ties) cover with a thin cloth and skim once a day till the scum is all off 
and fermentation has ceased, for which stage watch closely. Bottle 
and lay away in a dark cool place ; if put into kegs — brandy or gin and 
whisky kegs are best. The next spring rack off and add two ounces 
sugar to the gallon. Wine thus made has received commendation 
from the highest quarters including that of heavy dealers in New York 
City. — E. R. Southwick. 



HINTS FOR THE WELL. 327 



HINTS FOR THE WELL. 



Don't eat too much. Don't eat late at night. Don't stuff the babies. 

Little children require food oftener than adults, but it should be given 
them only in small quantities at a time. 

Adults need to eat at regular intervals two. or three times a day, 
allowing time for each meal to be fully digested before another is 
taken. It would spoil a loaf of bread, half baked, to poke a lump of 
cold dough into the middle of it. 

Don't eat too fast ; (he digestive organs are something like a stove, 
which if choked up and out of order, burns slowly, and if you keep, 
piling in fuel grows more and more choked. The wiser course is to 
let it burn down and put in fuel only when needed. It is a foolish 
notion that food always keeps up the strength. Only what we digest 
helps us ; all beyond that is a, tax upon the system, and exhausts the 
strength instead of increasing it. 

Use good palatable food, not highly seasoned ; vary in quantity and 
quality according to age, climate, weather, and occupation. Unbolted 
or partially bolted grains are good and sufficient food for dogs, horses, 
and men ; but nature demands variety. As a rule, the flesh of meat 
eating animals is not wholesome food. Hot soft bread digests slowly. 

Cooking may spoil good food. Pork,.if eaten at all, should be 
thoroughly cooked. Avoid frying meat ; boil, roast or broil it, begin- 
ning with a high heat ; for soups begin lukewarm. 

Three full meals daily are customary, but the number, the relative 
quantity and quality, and the intervals between them, are largely 
matters of opinion, habit and convenience; regularity is the important 
thing. 

Eat something within an hour after rising, especially if obliged to- 
labor or study ; but avoid both these before breakfast if possible, and 
particularly exposure to malaria or contagion. 

Let the amount of the meal bear some relation to future needs as well 
as present appetite ; but it is better to carry an extra pound in your 
pocket than in your stomach. 

Eat in pure air and in pleasant coraps ny ; light conversation and 



328 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

gentle exercise promote digestion, but hard work of any kind retards 
it. Avoid severe bodily or mental labor just before and for two hours 
after a full meal. 

Masticate well ; eat slowly ; five minutes more at dinner may give 
you bettei' use of an hour afterward. Drink little at meals, and never 
a full glass of very hot or very cold liquid. Never wash down a 
mouthful. Avoid waste of saliva. 

Remember that when the stomach is sour after eating, the food is 
actually rotting — that is a nauseating word but it expresses the absolute 
facts in the case, and it means that some of the rules above given have 
been violated. 

Evacuate the bowels daily, and above all regularly ; the best time is 
after breakfast ; partly to be rid of a physical burden during the day, 
■but chiefly to relieve the brain. Constipation is safer than diarrhoea. 
For the former, exercise, ride horseback, knead the belly, take a glass 
of cool water before breakfast, eat fruit and laxative food ; for the 
latter, follow an opposite course — toast, crust, crackers and rice are 
hest food. Pain and uneasiness of the digestive organs are signs of 
■disturbance ; keep a clear co nscience ; rest, sleep, eat properly ; avoid 
strong medicines in ordinary cases. 

Panaceas are ^?-«OTfl/a«> humbugs; their makers and takers, their 
vendors and recommenders are knaves or fools, or both. Nature cures 
most diseases, if let alone or aided by diet and proper care. There are 
no miracles in medicine ; remember that to keep and to get well gen- 
■erally require only a recognition of Nature's powers, with knowledge 
of anatomy, and physiology, experience, and common sense. 

^ DYSPEPTIC'S FIGHT FOR LIFE. 
Judge W. was a fretful, irritable, depressed, despondent, discour- 
aged, listless, moody, nervous, wretched dyspeptic for five weary years. 
He tried travel, but neither the keen air of the sea-shore nor the brac- 
ing breezes of the northern prairies brought him relief. He tried all 
the panaceas and al 1 the doctors at home and abroad in vain. Some 
told him that he had heart disease, others thought it was inflammation 
of the spleen, gout, Bright's disease, liver complaint, lung difficulty or 
softening of the brain. Bottle after bottle of nostrums went down the 
unfortunate Judge's throat, and it was only when physicians and 
friends gave him up, and pronounced him to all intents a dead man, 
that he threw bottles, plasters, powders and pills to the four winds and 



HINTS FOR THE WELL. 329 

with the energy of despair, set about disappointing his doctors, and 
getting ready to live despite their ghastly predictions. Then began a 
fight for life against dyspepsia, a fight which many have begun but 
few have won. He bathed the whole body every morning in cold 
water, summer and winter, not by a shower or a plunge, but by vigor- 
ously dashing the water on the body with the hands, and afterwards 
rubbing briskly with a coarse towel. This was continued withou' 
missing a single morning for n year. In the meantime the strictest 
diet was instituted. By experimenting, the patient found what he 
could eat without harm, and ate that only in very small quantities, 
measuring his food on his plate before beginning his meal, and limit- 
ing himself rigidly to that quantity. His principal food for nearly 
three years was cracked wheat and Graham mush, and the last meal 
was taken at two o'clock in the afternoon — not a particle of food 
passed his lips from that time until the next morning, thus giving the 
stomach complete rest anid time to begin the work of recuperation, 
Special attention was given to eating slowly and thoroughly masti- 
cating the food, and not to eat too much, too fast, or too often were rule& 
strictly and rigidly observed. Bathing, diet, rest, sleep, and 
gentle exercise in the open air did the work. It was a. dreadful con- 
flict — days of struggle and temptation, requiring more heroism and 
steady tenacity of purpose than would nerve a soldier for battle, for 
such a battle is for the hour or the day, but this fight was renewed 
every morning and continued every day for months and years. But 
patience, courage, intelligent judgment, and a, strict adherence to the 
above regimen won the day without a grain or a drop of medicine, 
and Judge W. believes that the good Lord of us all has never per- 
mitted any pian to discover or invent medicine that will cure dys- 
pepsia. Nature is the only perfect physician. Cold water, fresh air, 
the natural grain (wheat), sleep, rest and gentle exercise make up the 
grand panacea. With these alone, and the self denial and moral 
courage to persist in the good fight, Judge W., the confirmed, nervous, 
miserable dyspeptic, became a well, strong, and hearty man in five 
days ? No. In five months ? No. In five years ? Yes ; and after 
the fight, when contemplating the victory won, he could say with that 
model philanthropist, Amos Lawrence, after his battle of fifteen long 
years with the same disease, "If men only knew how sweet the victory 
is, they would not hesitate a moment to engage in the conflict." 



330 . THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



HINTS ABOUT MARKETING. 



/ 

Very few housekeepers understand how to select meats wisely or how 
to buy economically. Most trust the butcher, or buy at hap-hazard.with 
no clear understanding of what they want, and no consideration at all 
for economy; and yet a little knowledge of facts, with a moderate 
amount of experience and observation will enable any one to buy both 
intelligently and economically. It is best, when possible, to buy for • 
cash. Ready money always commands the best in the market, at the 
lowest prices. It is also better to buy of the most respectable regular 
dealer in the neighborhood, than of transient and irresponsible persons. 
Apparent " bargains "frequently turn out the worst possible investments. 
If a dealer imposes on you, drop him at once. In buying beef, select 
that which is of a clear, cherry-red color after a fresh cut has been for 
a few moments exposed to the air. The fat should be of a light straw 
color, and the meat marbled throughout with fat. If the beef is im- 
mature, the color of the lean part will be pale and dull, the bones small, 
and the fat very white. High-colored, coarse-grained beef with the 
fat a deep yellow should be rejected. In corn fed beef, however, the 
fat is yellowish, while that fa ttened on g rasses is whiter. In cow beef 
the fat is also whiter than in ox beef. Inferior meat from old or ill fed 
animals has a coarse, skinny fat and a dark red lean. Ox beef is the, 
sweetest and most juicy, and the most economical. When meat pressed 
by the finger rises up quickly, it is prime, but if the dent disappears 
slowly, or remains, it is inferior in quality. Any greenish tints about 
either fat or lean, or slipperiness of surface, indicates that the meat has 
been kept so long that putrefaction has begun, and consequently is unfit 
for use, except by those persons who prefer what is known as a " high- 
flavor." Tastes differ as to the choice cuts. The tenderloin which is 
the choicest piece, and is sometimes removed by itself, lies under the 
short ribs and close to the back bone, and is usually cut through with 



HINTS ABOUT MARKETING. 331 

the porter-house and sirloin steaks. Of these the porterhouse is gen- 
erally preferred, the part nearest the thin bone being the sweetest. If 
the tenderloin is wanted, it may be secured by buying an edgebone 
steak, the remainder of which after the removal of the tenderloin, is 
equal to the sirloin. The small porterhouse steaks are the most econ- 
omical, but in large steaks the coarse and tough parts may be used for 
soup, or after boiling, for hash, which, in spite of its bad repute, is 
really a very nice dish when well made. A round steak, when the leg 
is not cut down too far, is sweet and juicy, the objection being its 
toughness, to cancel which it may be chopped fine, seasoned and made 
into breakfast croquettes. The interior portion of the round is the ten- 
derest and best. The roasting pieces are the sirloin and the ribs, the 
latter being most economical at the family table, the bones forming an 
excellent basis for soup, and the meat, when boned, rolled up and 
roasted, being in good form for the carver, as it enables him to distrib- 
ute equally the upper part with the fatter and more skinny portions. 
There are roasts and other meats equally good in the fore quarter of 
beef, but the proportion of bone to meat is greater. 

Veal should be clear and firm and the fat white. If dark and thin 
with the tissues hanging loosely about the bone, it is not good . Veal 
will not keep so long as an older meat, especially in hot or damp 
weather, and when going, the fat is soft and moist, the meat flabby 
and spotted, and inclined to be porous like a sponge. Overgrown 
veal is inferior to that which is smaller but well fatted. 

Mutton should be fat, and the fat clear and white. Be wary of buy- 
ing mutton with yellow fat. An abundance of fat is a source of waste, 
but as the lean part of fat mutton is much more juicy and tender than 
any other, it should be chosen. After the butcher has cut off all he 
can be persuaded to remove, you will still have to trim it freely before 
broiling. The lean of mutton is quite different from that of beef. 
While beef is a bright carnation, mutton is a deep, dark red. The 
hind-quarter of mutton is best for roasting. The ribs may be used 
for chops and are the sweeter, but the leg cutlets are the most eco- 
nomical, as there is much less bone, and no hard meat, as on the ribs- 
Almost any part will do for broth. As much of the fat should be re- 
moved as practicable, then cut into small pieces and simmer slowly 
until the meat falls to pieces. Drain off and skim off any remaining 
fat, and thicken with rice or vermicelli. 



332 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

Lamb is good at a year old, and more digestible than most imma- 
ture meats. The meat should be light red and fat. If not too warm 
weather, it ought to be kept a few days before cooking. It is stringy 
and indigestible ii cooked too soon after killing. 

Great care must be taken in selecting pork. If ill-fed or diseased^ 
no meat is more injurious to the health. The lean must be finely 
grained, and both fat and lean very white. The rind should be smooth 
and cool to the touch. If clammy, be sure the pork is stale, and re- 
iect it. If the fat is full of small kernels, it is indicative of disease. 
In good bacon the rind is thin, the fat firm and the lean tender. Rusty 
bacon has yellow streaks in it. Hams are tried by sticking a knife 
into them. If when drawn out it has no bad odor, the ham is good 

Meat should always be wiped with a dry clean cloth as soon as it 
comes from the butcher's, and in loins the pipe which runs along the 
bone should be removed as it soon taints. Never buy bruised meat. 

When found necessary to keep meat or poultry longer than was ex- 
pected, sprinkle pepper, either black or red, over it. It can be 
washed off easily when ready for cooking. Powdered charcoal is 
recommended to prevent meat from tainting. Meat which has been 
kept on ice must be cooked immediately, but it is much better to place 
meats, poultry, game, etc. , by the side of, not on, ice, as it is the cold 
air, not the ice, which arrests decay. All meats except veal, are better 
when kept a few days in a cool place. 

GAME AND POULTRY. 

To Preserve game or poultry in summer draw as soon as possible 
after they are killed, wash in several waters, have in readiness a kettle 
of boiling water, and plunge them in, drawing them up and down by 
the legs so that the water may pass freely through them ; do this for 
five minutes, drain, wipe dry, and hang in a cool place ; when perfectly 
cold rub the insides and necks well with pepper; prepared in this way 
they will keep two days in warm weather ; when used wash thoroughly; 
or wash well in soda water, rinse in clear water, place inside several 
pieces of charcoal, cover with a cloth, and hang in a dark cool place. 
The most delicate birds can he preserved in this way. If game or 
poultry is at all strong, let it stand several hours in water with either 
charcoal or soda ; the latter will sweeten when they are comparatively 
spoiled. 

Sportsmen who wish to keep prairie chickens, pheasants, or wild 



HINTS ABOUT MABKETING. 333 

fowl, in ver)' hot weather, or to ship long distances, should draw the 
bird as soon as killed, force down the throat two or three whole 
peppers, tying a string around the throat above them, sprinkle inside a 
little powdered charcoal, and fill the cavity of the body with very 
dry grass. Avoid green or wet grass which "heats," and hastens- 
decay. 

A young turkey has a smooth black leg, and if male, a short spur. 
The eyes are bright and full, and the feet supple, when fresh. The 
absence of these signs denotes age and stateness. 

In young geese, the bills and feet are yellow and supple and the skin 
may be easily broken; the breast is plump and the fat white; an old 
goose has red and hairy legs and is unfit for the table. 

Young ducks feel tender under the wing and the web of the foot is 
transparent ; those with thick, hard brea.sts are best. Tame ducks have 
yellow legs, wild ducks reddish ones. 

Young fowls have a tender skin, smooth legs and comb, and the best 
have yellow legs. In old fowls the legs are rough and hard. 

In pheasants and quails yellow legs and a dark bill are signs of a 
young bird. They are in season in autumn. 

Pigeons should be fre sh, fat and tender, and the feet pliant and 
smooth. 

In prairie chickens, if fresh, the eyes should be full and round, not 
sunken, and if young, the breast bone is soft and yields to pressure. 
The latter test also applies to all fowls and game birds. 

Plover, woodcock, snipe, etc. , may be chosen by the same rules. 

In venison the meat should be of a rich, reddish brown and fine 
grain, and if young the fat is thick, clear and close. 

FISH. 

The eyes of fish are bright, and the gills a fine clear red, the body 
stiff^ and the smell not unpleasant, when fresh. Mackerel must be lately 
caught or it is very indifferent fish, and the flavor and excellence of 
salmon depend entirely on its freshness. Lobsters when recently 
caught have some muscular action in the claws which may be excited 
by pressing the eyes. The heaviest lobsters are the best. 

In fresh-water fish the same signs of freshness are good tests. 
Among the best of these are the Lake Superior trout and white fish,. 
and coming from cold waters they keep best of all fresh-water fish ; the 
latter is the best, most delicate, and has fewer bones, greatly resem- 

21 



334 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

bling shad. The wall-eyed pike, bass and pickerel of the inland lakes 
are also excellent fish, and are shipped, packed in ice, reaching mar- 
ket as fresh as when caught, and are sold at moderate prices. Cali- 
fornia salmon is also shipped in the same way, and is sold fresh in all 
cities, with fresh cod and other choice varieties from the Atlantic 
coast, but the long distance which they must be transported makes the 
price high. The cat-fish is the staple Mississippi river fish, and is 
cooked in various ways. Lake Superior trout are the best fresh fish 
for baking. All fish which have been packed in ice should be cooked 
immediately after removal, as they soon grow soft and lose their flavor. 
Stale fish must never be eaten. 

The best salt mackerel for general use are "English mess," but 
"bloaters" are considered nicer. In selecting always choose those 
which are thick on the belly and fat ; poor mackerel are always dry. 
The salt California salmon is excellent, those of a dark rich yellow 
being best To freshen, place with scale side up. Salmon boiled and 
served with egg sauce or butter dressing is nice. No. i white fish is 
also a favorite salt fish, and will be found in all markets. 

A good deal of sturgeon is put up and sold for smoked halibut. The 
skin of halibut should be white ; if dark it is more likely to be stur- 
geon. Smoked salmon should be firm and dry. Smoked white fish 
and trout are very nice, the former being a favorite in whatever way 
cured. Select good firm whole fish. White fish is very nice broiled. 
Each of the above is better than herring. 

WOOD. 
When wood is used for cooking, always buy that which is straight 
and solid. A cord of small crooked sticks does not contain one half 
as much solid fuel as straight coarse body wood. The best wood for 
fuel is hickory and maple. 



HOW TO CUT AND CURE MEATS. 



335 



HOW TO CUT AND CURE MEATS. 



It is often economical for a family to buy beef by the quarter, and 
smaller animals whole, especially when wanted for winter use, and 
every housekeeper ought to know how to cut up meats and to under- 
stand the uses and relative value of the pieces. It is not difficult to cut 
up beef, and is very easy to reduce any of the smaller animals to con- 
venient proportions for domestic use, and in order to make the subject 
clear we present the accompanying engravings, the first of which rep- 
resents the half of a beef, including, of course, the hind and fore quar- 
ters. The letters indicate the di- 
rection in which the cuts should be 
made, beginning in the order of the 
alphabet, cutting first from A to B, 
then from C to D, etc. In the fore 
quarter cut from A to B, from B to 
C, from D to E, etc. For cutting, 
use a sharp, long and pointed knife, 
and a saw of the best steel, sharp, 
and set for butcher's use. The 
beef should be 'laid on a bench or 
table with the inner side up. In 
hind quarter i represents the"rump" 
which is best corned; 2, "round," 
the under part of which makes 
steaks, the outside good corning 
pieces, or the whole may be used for 
dried beef; 3, "shank" for soups ; 
4, "rump steaks" : 5, "veiny piece" 
for dried beef or corning; 6, sir- 
Idin, the best steak ; 7, flank for 
coming or stews ; 8, porter house, 
the upper part of which is equal to 
sirloin. Cut in this way a part of 
the tenderloin, the choicest bit of 
the beef, lies in the sirloin and a 
smaller part in the upper part of 




336 



THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



the porter house steak. In the fore quarter i is the "rib piece" for 

boiling or corning ; 2, tlft "plate" piece for corning : 3, the "fore 

shank" for soup; 5, the "rib roast," first cut; 6, "rib roast," be ,t cut, 

and the best roast in the beef; 7, "chuck rib roast," commonly used 

for "pot roast ;" 8, neck piece for corning or pie meat ; 9, best cut for 

corn beef. 

VEAL, 



A — Loin, best end, for roasting. 

B — Loin, chump end, for roasting. 

C — Fillet, for baking or roasting. 

D — Knuckle for stewing. 

E — Fore knuckle, for stewing. 

F — Neck, best end, for roasting. 

G — Neck, scrag end, for stewing. 

H — Blade bone. 

I — Breast, for stewing. 



PORK. 





A — Back, lean part for roast. 
B — Loin, for roast. 
C — Bacon to be cured. 
D — Shoulder, to be cured. 
E — Ham, to be cured. 



MUTTON. 



A — Leg, for boiling piece. 

B — Loin, for roast. 

C — Rump piece, for roast. 

D — Chops, frying or broihng. 

E — Fore-shoulder, for boiling. 

F — Neck, for stewing or roasting. 

G — Brisket, for stewing. 



-^'K\V.'»» . \C. . — 



Brine for Beef — To one hundred pounds beef, take eight pounds 
salt, five of sugar or five pints molasses, (Orleans best, but any good 
will do), two ounces soda, one ounce saltpeter, four gallons water, or 
enough to cover the meat. Mix part of the salt and sugar together. 



,' HOW TO CUT AND CURE MEATS. 337 

[ 
rub eaich piece, and place it in the barrel, having covered the bottom 
with salt. When the meat is all in, pu# the remainder of salt and 
sugar in the water. Dissolve the soda and saltpeter in hot water, add 
it to the brine and pour over the meat ; place a board on top of mbat, 
with a weight sufficient to keep it under the brine. Let the pieces in- 
tended for dried beef remain in the brine three weelis, talie out, place 
in a tub, cover with water, let stand over night, string and dry. Boil 
brine, skim well, let cool, and pour over the bony pieces left. These 
are good boiled, and eaten either hot or cold, and they will keep good 
for several months. Tongue may be pickled with the beef. Brine 
made the same way, with the addition of two pounds more of salt, is 
good for hams and shoulders. Brine for pickled pork should have all 
the'saltit will dissolve, and a peck or half bushel in bottom of barrel. 
If pork is salted in this manner it will never spoil, but the strength of 
the brine makes it necessary to salt the hams and side meat separately. 
Pork when killed should be thoroughly cooled before salting, but 
should not remain longer than one or two days. It should never be 
frozen before salting, as this is as injurious as salting before it is cooled. 
Large quantities of pork are lost by failing to observe these rules. If 
pickled pork begins to sour, take it out of the brine, rinse well in 
clear cold water, place a layer in a barrel, on this place charcoal in 
lumps the size of a hen's egg or smaller, add a layer of meat and so 
on, until all is in the barrel, cover with a weak brine, let stand twenty- 
four hours ; take meat out, rinse off the charcoal, put it into a new 
strong brine, remembering always to have plenty of salt in the barrel 
(more than the water will dissolve). If the same barrel is used, 
cleanse it by placing a small quantity of quicklime in it, slack with 
hot water, and add as much salt as the water will dissolve, and 
cover tightly to keep the steam in. — D. Buxton. 

To Cure Hams. — For every ham, half a pound of' salt, same of 
brown sugar, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, half an ounce allspice, 
half an ounce saltpeter ; mix and rub well over the hams, laying them 
in the barrel they are to be kept in with the skin side down ; let them 
remain a week, make a pickle of water and salt strong enough to bear 
an egg, add to it half a pound of sugar, pour over the hams till they 
are thoroughly covered, let them remain four weeks, take out and hang 
up to dry for at least a week before smoking ; smoke with corn cote 
or hickory chips, — an old but a good way. — Mrs. S. M. Guy. 

To Keep Hams. — For one hundred pounds of meat, take eight 
pounds salt, two ounces saltpeter and four gallons water ; put hams in 
this pickle in the fall, keeping them well under the brine ; in April 
take out, drain three or four days, slice as for cooking, fry nearly as 
much as for table,, pack in stone jars, pressing down the slices as fast 
as they are laid in the jar ; when full put on a weight, and when en- 
tirely cold, cover with the fat tried out. Prepared in this way they retain 
the ham flavor without being smoked. The gravy left from frying will 
be found very useful in cooking. 



338 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



CARVING. 



It is no trifling accomplishment to carve well, and both ladies and 
gentlemen ought to so far make carving a study that they may be 
able to perform the task virith sufficient skill at least to prevent re- 
mark. There are no real difficulties in the way of mastering the ac- 
complishment ; knowledge simply is required. All displays of exeVtion 
are in bad taste because they indicate a want of ability on the part of 
the carver, or are a strong indication of the toughness of roast or the 
age of the bird. A good knife of moderate size and great sharpness 
is a necessity. Fowls are easily carved, and in roasts such as loins, 
breasts, forequarters, etc. , the butcher should always have instructions 
to separate the joints. The platter should be placed so near to the 
carver that he has full control over it ; if far off, nothing can prevent 
an ungraceful appearance. In carving a turkey, cut off the wing 
nearest you first, then the leg and second joint; then slice the breast 
until a rounded, ivory-shaped piece appears ; insert the knife between 
that and the bone, and separate them ; this part is the nicest bit of the 
breast, next comes the "merry-thought." After this, turn over the 
bird a little, and just below the breast you will find the "oyster," 
which you separate as you did the inner breast. The side-bone lies 
beside the rump, and the desired morsel can be taken out without 
separating the whole bone. Proceed in the same way upon the other 
side. The fork need not be removed during the whole process. An 
experienced carverywill dissect a fowl as easily as you can break an 
egg or cut a potato. He retains his seat, manages his hands and el- 
bows artistically, and is perfectly at his ease. There is no difficulty 
in the matter; it only requires knowledge and practice, and these 
should be taught in the family, each child taking his or her turn. 

Chickens and partridges are carved in the same way. The trail of 
a woodcock on a bit of toast is the choicest bit.pf that bird ; also the 
thigh of a partridge. 



CAKVING. 



339 



SIRLOIN OF BEEF. in carving beef, mutton, 

Ifnib, and veal, thin smooth 
and neat slices are desirable 
— C2U across the grain, tak- 
ing care to pass the knife 
through to the bones of the 
meat. There are two modes 
of helping a .sirloin of beef; 
either by carving long thin 
slices from 3 to 4, and help- 
ing it with a portion of the fat underneath the ribs, or by cutting 
thicker slices, from i to 2, through the tenderloin. 




SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 




HAM. 



A shoulder of mutton should 
be cut down to the bone, in the 
direction of the line i, and thin 
slices of lean taken from each 
side. The best fat is found at 
2, and should be cut in thin 
slices in that direction. Sev- 
eral tempting slices can be cut 
on either side of the line 3, and 
there are nice bits on the under 
side near the flap. 

A ham may be carved in 
three ways : first, by cutting 
long delicate slices through 
the thick fat from I to 2, 
down to the bone ; secondly, 
by running the point of the 
knife in the circle in the mid- 
dle, and cutting thin circular 
slices, thus keeping the ham 
moist , and, thirdly, and most 
economically, by commencing at the knuckle at 4 — 5, and slicing up- 
ward. 

LEG OF MUTTON. i„ carving a leg of mutton, 

the best slices are obtained 
from the center, by cutting 
from I to 2 ; and some 
very good cuts are found on 
the broad end • from 5 to 6. 
Some epicures prefer slices 
nearer the knuckle, but they 

are dry. The cramp-bone is a 

delicacy, and is obtained by cutting down to the bone at 4, and run- 





340 



THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



ning the knife under it in a semicircular direction to 3. The fat so 
esteemed by many lies on the ridge 5. By turning over the meat 
some excellent slices are found, and can be cut lengthwise. 




A tongue should be carved 
as "thin as a vi-afer ;" its deli- 
cacy depending in a gi'eat de- 
gree upon that. A well cut 
bit tempts the most fastidious ; 
and this applies, an fact, to all 
kinds of roast and boiled 
meats. A chunk of beef we 
turn from with disgust — an 
artistic slice we enjoy. The center slices of the tongue are consid- 
ered the best, and should be cut across at the line i, and the slices 
taken from each side, with a portion of the fat which is at its root, if 
it is liked. The question should be asked. 

HAUNCH OF VENISON. A haunch of venison should 

be cut across to the bone on 
the line i — 3 — 2, then turn 
the dish a little, and put the 
point of the knife at three, 
and cut down as deep as pos- 
sible in the direction of 3 — 4, 
and continue to cut slices on 
the right and left of the line. The fattest parts are found between 4 
and 2. A loin of veal and a loin of mutton should be jointed by the 
butcher before it is cooked, and the carver easily cuts through the 
ribs, and should serve a portion of the kidney and the fat on each plate. 
A fillet of veal is cut in thin, smooth slices off the top, and portions 
of the stuffing and fat helped to each. In cutting a breast of veal, 
separate the breast and brisket, and then cut them up. 

In serving fish, some practice is needful, for lightness of touch and 
dexterity of management are requisite to prevent the flakes from break- 
ing. In serving mackerel, shad, etc., a part of the roe should be 
placed on each plate. The fins of the turbot are the most sought for ; 
this fish is placed underpart uppermost on the platter, as there lies the 
primest part. In carving salmon, a portion of the back and belly 
should be served to each person. The choicest morsels are next to 
the head, the thin part comes next, and the tail is the least esteemed. 
The flavor of the fish nearest the bone is not equal to that on the 
upper part. 




I 

HOUSEKEEPING. ' 341 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



Housekeeping, whatever may be the opinion of the liutterflies of the 
period, is an accomplishment in comparison to which in its bearing on 
woman's relation to real life and to the family, all others are trivial. 
It comprehends all that goes to make up a well ordered home, where 
the sweetest relations of life rest on firm foundations, and the purest 
sentiments thrive. It is an- accomplishment that may be acquired by 
study and experiment, but tlae young and inexperienced housekeeper 
generally reaches success only through great tribulation. It ought 
rather to be absorbed in girlhood, by easy lessons taken between alge- 
bra, music and painting. If girls were taught to take as much genuine 
pride in dusting a room well, hanging a curtain tastefully, or broiling a 
steak to a nicety, as they feel when they have maste^'ed one of Mozart's 
or Beethoven's grand symphonies, there would be fewer complaining 
husbands and unhappy wives. The great lesson is to learn that work 
well-done is robbed of its curse. The woman who is satisfied only 
with the highest perfection in her work drops the drudge and becomes 
the artist. There is no dignity in slighted work, but to the artist, no 
matter how humble his calling, belongs the honor which is inseparable 
from all man's struggles after perfection. No mother who has the 
happiness of her daughter at heart, will neglect to teach her first the 
duties of the household, and no daughter who aspires to be queen at 
home and in her circle of friends, can afford to remain' ignorant of the 
smallest details that contribute to the comfort, the peace and the at- 
tractiveness of home. There is no luck in housekeeping, however it 
may seem. Evei^thing works by exact rule, and even with thorough 
knowledge, eternal vigilance is the price of succ'ess. There must be 
a place for everything and everything in its place, a time for every- 
thing and ev.erything in its time, and " patience, patience " must be 
written in blazing capitals all over the walls. The reward is sure. 
Your husband may admire your grace and ease in society, your wit, 
your school-day accomplishments of music and painting, but all in 
perfection will not atone for an ill-oi'dered kitchen, sour bread, muddy 



342 THE BUCKETfE COOK BOOK. 

coffee, tough meats, unpalatable vegetables, indigestable pastry, and 
the whole train of horrors that result from bad housekeeping ; on the 
other hand, success wins gratitude and attachment in the home circle, 
a,nd adds lustre to the most brilliant intellectual accomplishments. 

One of the first ideas the young housekeeper must divest herself of 
is that because she is able or expects sometime to be able to keep ser- 
vants, it is therefore unnecessary to understand household duties, and 
to bear their responsibility. " Girls " are quick to see and note the igno- 
rance or incapacity of the mistress of the house, and few are slow to 
take whatever advantage it brings them, while the capacity of the 
mistress at once establishes discipline. The model house should not 
be large, nor too fine, and pretentious for daily use. The mistress of 
many a fine mansion is the veriest household drudge. A great house, 
with its necessary retinue of servants, is not in keeping with the sim- 
plicity of a republic where trained servants are not known, and is sel- 
dom pleasant for the family or attractive to friends. The furniture 
should be selected for comfort rather than show. Most modern 
chairs put their occupants to torture, and throw them into attitudes 
anything but graceful. Comforlable chairs should have broad seats, 
and a part at least, low seats for women and children. Carpets should 
as a rule be of small patterns. The stoves, if grates are not used, 
should be of the kind that may be thrown open or closed at pleasure, 
and burn either wood or coal. If a furnace is used great care must be 
taken that the rooms are not kept too hot in winter, and that there is 
most thorough ventilation, as the health of the family depends as 
much on the quality of the air they breathe as on the food they eat. 
There must be plenty of sunlight, floods of it in every room, even if 
the carpets do fade ; the housekeeper must be quick to note any scent of 
decay from vegetables or meats in the cellar, or from slops or refuse 
carelessly thrown about the premises. Every room must be clean and 
sweet. In sickness care in all these respects must be doubled. In 
damp and chilly autumn and spring days a little fire is com- 
fortable morning and evening. The food for the family must be 
fresh to be wholesome, and it is economy to buy the best, as there is 
less waste in it. No housekeeper ought to be satisfied with any but 
the very best cooking. Without it the most wholesome food is unpal- 
atable and distressing, and no considerations of economy should ever 
induce her to place on the table bread with the slightest sour tinge, 
cake or pudding in the least heavy or solid, or meat with the slightest 



HOUSEKEEPING. 343 

taint. Its use means disease and costly doctor's bills, to say to nothing 
of her own loss of repute as an accomplished housekeeper. If child 
ren and servants do work improperly, she should quietly insist on its 
being done correctly, and in self-defense they will soon do it correctly 
without supervision. Order and system mean the stopping of 
waste, the practice of economy, and additional means to expend 
for the table and for the luxuries and elegancies of life, and money in 
these things is well expended. It requires good food to make good 
muscle and good brain, and the man or woman who habitually sits 
down to badly cooked or scanty dmners, fights the battle of life at 
a great disadvaatage. 

THE PARLOR. 
The dusting of a parlor seems simple enough but is best done system- 
atically. All fragile movables should be stored away carefully in some 
neighboring closet, and the furniture protected as far as possible by 
covers, or removed from the room. Open the blinds and let in the 
light, and open the windows if it is not storming or too windy. Look 
on the ceiling for cobwebs, and sprinkle the carpet over with moistened 
bran, salt, damp coffee grounds, or tea leaves. Clean out corners and 
edges with a sharp pointed stick and stiff whisk broom, brush 
thoroughly under the heavy furniture with a parlor brush, then with a 
clean, fine and rather light broom make long, straight strokes the 
"right way" of the carpet. Short strokes dig into the carpet, wear off 
the nap, and raise more dust. Now leave the room until all dust is 
settled, then with a. long feather duster, brush the dust from eveiy 
piece of furniture, from the tops of windows and door casings, panels 
and knobs, upper edge of base-board, picture frames, etc. Next take 
a clean soft cotton cloth or an old silk handkerchief, or better a soft 
dusting towel with fleecy surface which is sold expressly for this pur- 
pose, and rub, not simply wipe the furniture. If any spot of dust is 
too firmly fixed, wash in lukewarm soapsuds, and immediately rub dry 
with chamois skin. If there is open work carving, draw the cloth 
through or dust with a paint brush, and it will be found more conveni- 
ent to blow out some of the places which are difficult to reach, for 
which a small pair of bellows may be used. To clean and dust a 
piano, use a half yard best canton flannel with nap free from all specks- 
and grit, brushing lightly over to remove the dust ; if there are finger 
marks or spots, rub up and down over them, always keeping the nap 



344 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

next to the instrument ; dust under the wires may be blown out with a 
pair of bellows. Keep the piano closed at night and in damp weather; 
open on bright days and if possible let the sun shine directly upon the 
keys, as the light will keep them from turning yellow. Tune every 
spring and fall. As a last finishing touch to the rearranging of the 
parlor, leave late papers, magazines, a volume of poetry, or a stereoscope 
and views where they will be readily picked up by callers. 
THE SITTING ROOM. 

The sitting room should be the pleasantest, because most used, of 
all in the house. Do not put down a Brussels carpet here, as it is too 
hard to sweep and holds too much dust. To prfevent moths under 
the carpets, grind black pepper coarsely, mix with camphor gum, and 
strew thickly about the edges and wherever they are apt to be found. 
To clean the oilcloth, use warm water without soap, or what is much 
better, milk and water ; to make it wear well give it one or two coats 
of linseed oil, dry thoroughly and then varnish. By keeping mats at 
the doors it will only be necessary to sweep the sitting room thor- 
oughly once a week, but occasionally when very dusty it may be 
cleaned by setting a pail of cold water by the door, wet the -broom in 
it, knock off the drops, sweep a yard or so, then wash the broom as 
before and sweep again, being careful to shake all the drops off the 
broom, and not to sweep far at a time. If done with care the carpet 
will be very nicely cleaned, and the quantity of dirt in the water will 
be surprising. The water must be changed several times. Snow 
sprinkled on a carpet and swept off before it has time to melt, is also 
nice for renovating a soiled carpet. A scrap bag hung on the sew- 
ing machine, for storing all bits of cloih' and ravelings and ends of 
thread, will save much sweeping. In summer, wire doors and mos- 
quito netting in windows will keep flies out and at the same time 
admit the air. Washing windows and wiping off doors once a week 
after sweeping and dusting, keeps all tidy. To remove finger marks, 
which are constantly appearing on doors about the knobs, use a damp 
•cloth as soon as they are observed. 

THE DINING ROOM. 

At meals always make the table as attractive as possible — a boquet 
adds to its appearance. Make the dining room neat and tidy, and 
most important of all, wear a cheerful countenance. Gather up the 
fragments that nothing be lost or wasted. When each .meal is over, 



HOUSEKEEPING. 34& 

if you do not have a crumb cloth under the table, which, when the 
chairs are removed, can be lifted carefully at the edges and the crumbs 
shaken into the centre, it is best to take a broom and sweep the crumbs- 
lightly under the table until the dishes and victuals are removed, then 
brush on a dust pan. To clear the table, bring in a dish-pan, gather 
up all the silver, cups and saucers, butter and sauce plates, and glass- 
ware, carry to the kitchen, place them in the sink and return with the 
pan. Scrape the plates as clean as possible and put in, add platters 
and vegetable dishes, saving all the remnants of food that are to be 
kept, on smaller dishes, to be taken to the cellar or refrigerator. To 
wash the dishes, have clear hot water in the pan, and first wash the sil- 
ver without soap or cloth, using only the hands ; if any are greasy, wipe 
with a soft paper before putting in the water, rinse in clear hot water and 
wipe off immediately on a perfectly diy, soft, clean towel ; in this way 
the silver is kept bright,, and does not get scratched. Add some soap 
in the water, make a suds, wash the glass ware, rinse and wipe dry. 
Next take cups and saucers and so on, leaving those most greasy till 
the last. Always keep a clean dish-cloth. One lady writes, " I have 
smelled a whole housefuU of typhoid fever in one sour, dirty dish-rag.'' 
Many prefer to use three dish cloths, one for the nicest articles, one for 
the greasy dishes, and one for pots and kettles, keeping each cloth per- 
fectly sweet and clean, and, after using it, washing, rinsing, and hang- 
ing to dry on a small rack kept for this purpose. The towels for wip- 
ing dishes may also dry here. A dish mop or swab for washing small 
deep articles is convenient. 

THE BEDROOM. 

The family bedroom should be on the first floor if possible. Matting 
is better for the floor than carpet, because freer from dust, and this is 
the room used in case of sickness. If made properly it will wear several 
years. Canton mattings are made on boats in pieces about two yards 
long, and afterward joined on shore into pieces of fifty yards. It is easy 
to see where these short pieces are joined ; after cutting into lengths, 
first sew these places across and across on the wrong side, then sew the 
breadths together and tack down like a carpet. Matting should never 
be washed with anything except moderately warmed salt and water, in 
the proportion of a pint of salt to a half pail of soft water. Diy 
quickly with a soft cloth. A bed room matting should be washed twice 
during the season, a room much used, oftener. In this room there 



346 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

should be a medicine closet, high above the reach of children, where 
are kept camphor, hot drops, mustard, strips of old linen, etc., for 
sudden sickness or accident. There should also be a large closet, a 
part of which is especially set apart for childrens' use, with low hooks 
where they may hang their clothes, a box for stockings, a bag for shoes, 
and other conveniences, which will help to teach them system and 
■order. 

THE GUEST CHAMBER. 
The bed of the guest chamber should always stand so that when one 
opens the eyes in the morning, the light from the window will not be 
directly upon them, as it is trying to weak eyes and unpleasant to strong 
ones. Keep the bureau where the sun's rays will never strike the mir- 
ror, and where it will not be heated by the stove, as either will granu- 
late the amalgam. Chambers should always be provided with tran- 
soms over the doors, and windows arranged so as to lower easily from 
the top. A light feather bed covered with a case like a pillow, may be 
either used over the mattrass, or a comfort may be used over it and the 
feather bed under it. Tacked on the inside of the washstand doors, 
two crotcheted pockets are nice for bathing sponges, and there should 
be plenty of towels, especially of those coarse, rough ones which make 
a morning bath such a luxury. A broad oil cloth in front of the wash- 
stand is also a protection to the carpet in bathing, and is needed when 
there is no bath room up stairs. 

THE KITCHEN. 
It is almost impossible to give any directions excepting in a general 
way regarding the kitchen, as there is an endless variety of plans and 
arrangement. The main thing is to systematize everything, grouping 
such things as belong to any particular, kind of work. For instance, 
in baking do not go to the china closet for a bowl, across the kitchen 
for the flour, and to the farther end of the pantry or store room for an 
egg, when they may all just as well be within easy reach of each other. 
Study and contrive to bring order out of the natural chaos of the 
kitchen,, and your head will save your hands and feet much labor. 
There is an old and true saying that "a woman can throw out with a 
spoon faster than a man can throw in with a shovel." In cooking 
meats, for instance, unless watched, the cook will throw out the water 
without letting it cool to take off the fat, or scrape the dripping-pan 
into the swill-pail. This grease is useful in many ways. Bits of 



HOUSEKEEPING. 347 

meat are thrown out which would make good hashed meat or hash ; 
the flour is sifted in a wasteful manner, or the bread pan left with 
dough sticking to it ; pie crust is left and laid by to sour, instead of 
making a few tarts for tea. Cake batter is thrown out because but 
little is left ; cold puddings are considered good for nothing, when 
often they can be steamed for the next day, or, as in case of rice, 
made over in other forms. Vegetables are thrown away that would 
warm for breakfast nicely. Dish towels are thrown down where mice 
can destroy them. Soap is left in water to dissolve, or more used 
than is necessary ; the scrub brush is left in the water, pails scorched 
by the stove, tubs and barrels left in the sun to dry and fall apart, 
chamber pails allowed to rust, tins not dried, and iron ware rusted ; 
nice knives are used for cooking in the kitchen, silver spoons used to 
scrape kettles, or forks to toast bread ; cream is allowed to mould and 
spoil, mustard to dry in the pot, and vinegar to corrode the castor ; 
tea, roasted coffee, pepper and spices to stand open and lose their 
strength ; the molasses jug loses the cork and the flies take possession ; 
vinegar is drawn in a basin and allowed to stand until both basin and 
vinegar are spoiled ; sugar is spilled from the barrel, coffee from the 
sack, and tea from the chest. Different sauces are made too sweet, 
and both sauce and sugar are wasted ; dried fruit has not been taken 
care of in season, and becomes wormy ; the vinegar on pickles loses 
strength or leaks out, and the pickles become soft ; potatoes in the 
cellar grow, and the sprouts are not removed until they become worth- 
less ; apples decay for want of looking over ; pork spoils for want of 
salt, and beef because the brine wants scalding ; hams become tainted 
or filled with vermin, for want of the right protection; dried beef be- 
comes so hard it can't be cut ; cheese molds and is eaten by mice or 
vermin ; bones are burnt that will make soup ; ashes are thrown out 
carelessly, endangering the premises, and wasting them; servants 
leave a light and fire burning in the kitchen, when they are out all 
the evening ; clothes are whipped to pieces in the wind ; fine cambrics 
rubbed on the board, and laces torn in starching ; brooms are never 
hung up, and are soon spoiled ; carpets aie swept with stubs hardly fit 
to scrub the kitchen, and good new brooms used for scrubbing; 
towels are used in place of holders, and good sheets to iron on, taking 
a fresh one every week; table linen is thrown carelessly down, and is 
eaten by mice, or put away damp, and is mildewed ; or the fruit stains 
are forgotten, and the stains washed in ; tablecloths and napkins used 



348 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

as dish-wipers ; mats forgotten to be put under hot dishes ; teapots 
melted by the stove ; water forgotten in pitchers, and allowed to freeze 
in winter ; slops for cows and pigs never saved ; china used to feed 
cats and dogs on ; and in many other ways a careless or inexperienced 
housekeeper wastes, without heeding, the hard earned wages of her 
husband. Economy counts nowhere so well as in the kitchen. 

Use a cloth to wash potatoes. It is no trouble to keep one for this 
purpose, and it will save your hands and your time. Some prefer a 
brush. Tie a strip of muslin on the end of a round stick, and use to 
grease bread and cake pans, gem-irons, etc. Have two large pockets 
in your kitchen apron, and in one of them always keep a holder. A 
piece of clam or oyster shell is much better than a knife to scrape a 
kettle, should you be so unfortunate as to burn anything on it. ■ 
If you use a copper teakettle, keep an old dish with sour milk and 
a cloth in it, wash the kettle with this every morning, afterwards wash- 
ing off with clear water, and it will always look bright and new. Cut 
a very ripe tomato and rub over a kitchen table to remove grease. 
The juice will also remove stain? from and whiten the hands. A 
piece of sponge fastened on the end of a stick or wire is the best 
thing with which to clean lamp chimneys. 

If you use oil buy the best kerosene ; to test it place a small 
quantity in a teacup, and if it does not easily ignite when brought in 
contact with a lighted taper or match, it is good ; poor oil will ignite 
instantly. Keep oil in a ten gallon can with a faucet at the lower 
part, so as to draw off into a smaller can or lamp filler ; set the large 
can in a cool dark place, keep all the articles used for cleaning, filling 
and trimming lamps by themselves. For these purposes provide an old 
waiter (to hold the things), a lamp filler, pair of scissors or a lamp 
trimmer, box of wicks, soap, washing soda, and several soft cloths 
and towels, also a wire hairpin with which to keep open the vent in 
the burner. When lamps need an extra cleaning, add one tablespoon 
soda to a quart of water, being careful that none of the bronze or 
gilding comes in contact with the soda. When the wick becomes too 
short to cany up the kerosene, and if you have not time to put in a 
new wick, a piece of cotton rag pinned on below will prove a good 
feeder. If a hole is broken in a glass chimney, paste on a piece of 
paper and it will answer its purpose until you get a new chimney. 
When the burners of lamps become gummy and prevent the wicks 
moving freely, boil them up in suds over the fire a short time, and 



HOUSEKEEPING. 349 

they will become entirely clean and work well. Lamps may become in- 
crusted inside with settlings from the oil, and ordinary washing will 
not remove it. Take soapsuds and fill the lamp about one-third full, 
then put in a little sharp sand, and shake vigorously. A few minutes 
will remove every particle of settlings. Always fill the lamps every 
day and in the day time. Never fill a lamp after dark near a lighted 
lamp. Never light an almost empty lamp, as the empty space is nearly 
always filled with a. very explosive gas. In putting out a lamp turn 
the flame down low, and wave a fan, book or paper across the top of 
the chimney. Blowing down a chimney is very dangerous when a 
lamp is nearly empty and turned up high. Never start a fire with 
the oil. 

If kitchen floors are simply oiled, two or three times a year, no grease 
spot is made when grease drops on them, for it can be easily wiped up, 
— carpet or paint is not advisable. Neither paint nor paper the walls, 
but once a year apply a coat of the good old fashioned white wash. 
Do not have the wood work painted, the native wood well oiled 
and varnished lightly, is much the best finish. A wide, roomy dresser 
is a great convenience. It should have two wide closets below and 
three narrower ones above, with a row of drawers at top of lower 
closets. Here should be kept all pots and kettles, sauce-pans, waffle- 
irons, kitchen crockery, tins, etc., all arranged and grouped together 
so as to be convenient for use. If possible have good sliding doors, 
and at top and bottom of same have a narrow sliding panel for a ven- 
(ilator, whioh should be closed when sweeping. By this arrangement 
every article of kitchen ware can be enclosed from the dust and flies. 
A well appointed sink is a necessity in every kitchen — should be near 
both window and range, so as to have light, and also be convenient 
fo the hot water. It should be provided with a " grooved " and mov- 
able dish drainer, set so as to drain into the sink. Always have lamps 
placed at each end, or at the sides, so that the room may be well lighted 
in the evening. Never place a range or cooking stove opposite a door 
or window if it can be avoided, as any draft will prevent the oven 
from baking well. 

Not less than three large windows are desirable in every good sized 
kitchen. Have your kitchen cheerful, pleasant, well ventilated, con- 
venient and clean. 

Fill new tin pans with boiling water (having a little soda in it), let 
stand on a warm part of the range for a while, wash in strong soap 



350 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

suds, rinse and dry well. Scouring tins very often with whitening or 
ashes wears them out; if properly taken care of, washed in suds and 
thoroughly dried, they" will not need scouring. 

Boil ashes or a bunch of hay or grass in a new iron pot before 
cooking in it ; scour well with soap and sand, then fill with clean 
water and boil one or two hours. 

HOUSE CLEANING. 

When mother earth summons the stirring winds to help clear away 
the dead leaves and winter litter for the coming grass and flowers, 
every housekeeper has a feeling of sympathy, and begins to talk of 
house cleaning. The first bright sunshine of spring reveals unsus- 
pected dust and cobwebs, and to her imagination even the scrubbing 
brushes and brooms seem anxious to begin the campaign. In north- 
ern latitudes it is best, however, not to begin too soon. Do not trust 
entirely to appearances, for spring is almost certain to break her prom- 
ises of pleasant weather, and give us a good many days when it will 
be anything but pleasant to sit shivering in a fireless room, while your 
children become umnauageable and your husband growls. So for 
the sake of health, peace and comfort do not remove the stoves before 
the middle of May. When you begin, do not upset all the 
house at once, driving your husband to distraction and your children 
to the neighbors. By cleaning one or two rooms at a time and using 
a little womanly tact, the whole house may be renovated with little 
inconvenience. Before the "trouble" begins have all tools on hand 
and in good order. Provide lime for whitewashing, carpet tacks, good 
soap, sawdust, carbolic acid and spirits of ammonia. Fold carpets by 
lifting one side, carrying it over to the other and laying down care- 
fully, thus preventing the straw and dust from the under side from 
soiling the upper. Carry out and hang on a strong line over the grass, 
and beat thoroughly with a carpet whip such as are sold at all house 
furnishing stores, or a broom or stick, taking care not to use anything 
rough that will catch into the carpet. Take one or two pails of saw- 
dust, wet thoroughly and scatter well over the floor ; very little dust 
will arise when you sweep it off, and it will not be necessary to clean 
the floor before washing woodwork and windows. If you cannot get 
sawdust, use moist earth instead. After floors have been cleaned and 
dried, wash over with strong brine, vifhich will destroy any insects that 
may be lurking in cracks and corners. Sinks, drains, and all palces 



HOUSEKEEPING. 351 

that become sour or impure, should be cleaned with carbolic acid and 
water. This is the best disinfectant known, and should be kept in 
every house, and used frequently in warm weather. While house 
cleaning, brighten up old furniture by rubbing well with kerosene oil ; 
should it be marred or bruised use the "Magic Furniture Polish," 
given in the miscellaneous department. ' Take bedsteads to pieces and 
saturate every crevice with strong brine ; nothing is better to purify 
and cleanse or to destroy bedbugs. To clean windows and mirrors 
take clean, warm rainwater, and put in just enough spirits of ammo- 
nia to make it feel slippery. If very dirty rinse, if not wipe dry, and 
you will be surprised at the effect. Do not polish stoves until fall if 
you are going to put them away during the summer, but to keep them 
or any iron utensils from rusting rub over with kerosene. When pol- 
ishing, six or eight drops of turpentine added to blacking for one stove, 
brightens it and makes it easier to polish. • 

Always beat a carpet on the wrong side first ; cover oil or grease spots 
with flour and then pin a thick paper over, repeat the process several 
times, each time brushing off the old flour into a dust pan and putting 
on fresh. 

To remove mortar and paint from windows, rub spots of mortar 
with hot sharp vinegar ; or if nearly fresh, cold vinegar will loosen 
them. Rub the paint spots with camphene and sand. 

To clean paint use whiting on a damp cloth ; it cleans nicely. 

To remove spots from gray marble hearths, rub with linseed oil. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 
On Monday, wash ; Tuesday, iron ; Wednesday, bake ; Thurs- 
day, give a part of the day to church or charitable work ; Friday 
devote to general sweeping and dusting ; Saturday bake and prepare 
for Sunday. When the clothes are folded off the frame after ironing, 
examine each piece to see that none are laid away that need a button 
or a stitch. Clean all the silver on the last Friday of each month, 
and go through each room and closet to see if things are kept in 
order, and nothing going to waste. Have the sitting room tidied up 
every night before retiring. Remember that man requires a variety of 
food, and it is just as- cheap to make frequent changes of diet. Make 
the most of your brain and your eyes, and let no one dare tell you you 
are devoting yourself to a low sphere of action. 



352 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

HOUSEKEEPER'S ALPHABET^ 
Apples — Keep in dry place as cool as possible wifhout freezing. 
Brooms — Hang in ihe cellar way to keep soft and pliant. 
Cranberries — Keep under water in cellar; change water monthly. 
Dish of hot water set in oven prevents cakes, etc, from scorching. 
Economize time, health, and means, and you will never beg. 
Flour — Keep cool, dry, and securely covered. 

Glass — Clean with a quart water mixed with tablespoon of ammonia. 
Herbs — Gather when beginning to blossom ; keep in paper sacks. 
Ink Stains — Wet with spirits turpentine ; after three hours rub well. 
Jars — To prevent, coax "husband" to buy a Buckeye Cook Book. 
Keep an account of all supplies with cost and date when purchased. 
Love lightens labor. 

Money — Count carefully when you receive change. 
Nutmegs — Prick with a pin, and if good oil will run out. 
Orange and lemon peel — Dry, pound, and keep in corked bottles. 
Parsnips — Keep in ground until spring. 
Quicksilver and white of an egg destroy bedbugs. 
Rice — Select large with a clear fresh look ; old rice may have insects. 
Sugar — For general family use, the granulated, is best. 
Tea — Equal parts of Japan and green are as good as English breakfast. 
Use a cement made of ashes, salt and water for cracks in stove. 
Variety is the best culinary spice. 
Watch your back yard for dirt and bones. 
Xantippe was a scold. Don't imitate her. 
Youth is best preserved by a cheerful teniper. 
Zinc lined sinks are better than wooden ones. 

& Regulate the clock by your husband's watch, and in all apportion- 
ments of time remember the Giver. 



THE LAUNDRY. 353 



THE LAUNDRY. 



The first time black calicoes are washed, pour boiling rainwater 
over them, let stand about five minutes, then wash, rinse, starch, and 
hang out. This will set the color and prevent fading. Some treat all 
calicoes in this manner. Black percales, lawns, etc. , starched in gum 
arabic water and ironed on the wrong side will. look like new. Do 
not use soap in washing black or navy blue linens. Take instead 
two potatoes, wash, peel and grate into tepid soft water, add a tea- 
spoon ammonia ; wash the linens in this and rinse in cold bluing 
water. They will need no starch, and should be dried, and ironed on 
the wrong side. Bran water is nice for brown linens, also for flannel, 
merino or cashmere. Purple and black calicoes are very much im- 
proved by dipping them in sweet milk, (with a little water added). * 
Use this in place of starch, as it not only stiffens, but improves the 
color of the calico. Calicoes and linens should be hung in the 
shade to dry; do not let them lie in the water, but wash, rinse, 
starch, and hang right out. Remember to use soft water, always 
boiling hot ; use soft soap, and put it in the water, never rub it 
on the clothes. Use neither wash-board nor wringer, but let the 
entire work be done with the hands. On no account -suffer flan- 
nels or calicoes to lie in a. pile after they are wrung out ; it is 
better to take each piece separately, wash, rinse and hang out ; in 
the meantime the suds and rinsing waters must be kept boiling hot. 
When flannels are almost dry bring them in, pull into shape, fold 
loosely, roll up tightly in a clean towel, and iron after they have been 
folded a quarter of an hour. Flannels washed and ironed in the 
above manner will keep white and soft, and will not shrink. Never 
wash flannels on a stormy day, and never let them freeze. The wash- 
ing fluids that contain turpentine, alcohol, ammonia, camphor gum, 
etc. , ought never to be used, since they tend to open the pores of 
the skin, thus making the person more liable to take cold. In- 
stead of these it is better to use borax, which not only whitens and 
cleans the clothes, but softens the water. 



354 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

PROF. LIEBIG'S WASHING FLUID. 

The very best known, as it saves in time, labor, clothes and soap. 
One pound sal-soda, one-half pound stone lime, five quarts soft water ; 
boil a short time in copper or brass kettle, stirring occasionally, 
let settle and pour off the clear fluid into a stone jug and cork for 
use ; soak white clothes over night in simple water, wring out and 
soap wristbands, collars and dirty or stained places; have boiler 
half filled with water, and when at scalding heat, put in one com- 
mon teacup of fluid, stir and put in clothes, and boil half an hour, 
rub lightly through one suds only, rinsing well in the bluing water 
as usual, and all is complete. Instead of soaking clothes over night, 
they may soak in suds for a few hours before beginning wsshing. 
For each additional boiler of clothes add half a cup only of the 
fluid, of course, boiling in the same water through the whole washing. 
If more water is needed in the boiler for the last clothes dip it 
from the sudsing tub. This fluid brightens instead of fading the 
colors in calico, and is good for colored flannels. It does not rot 
clothes, but they must not lie long in the water ; the boiling, sudsing, 
rinsing and bluing must follow each other in rapid succession, until 
clothes are hung on the line, which should be by ten o'clock in 
the morning. 

SOAP FOR FAMILY USE. 

Much of the toilet and laundry soaps in the market are adulter- 
ated with injurious, and, to some persons, poisonous substances, by 
which diseases of the sk;n are occasioned or greatly aggravated, 
and great suffering results, which is rarely traced to the real cause. 
The fat tried from animals which have died of disease, it not thor- 
oughly saponified, is poisonous, and sometimes produces death. If 
in making soap the mass is heated to too high a degree, a film 
of soap forms around the particles of fat; if at this stage resin, 
salsoda, silicate and other adulterations are added, the fat is not 
saponified, but filmed, and if poisonous or diseased it so remains, 
and is dangerous to use. A bar of such soap has an oily feeling, 
and is unfit for use. If it feels sticky, it has too much resin in it. 
The slippery feeling which belongs to soap properly made cannot 
be mistaken. Another test of pure soft or hard soap is its trans- 
lucent or semi-transparent appearance. Soft soap that is cloudy is 
not thoroughly saponified, or else has been made of dirty or im- 
pure grease. It is not only safer but more economical to buy 
pure soap, as the adulterations increase the quantity without adding 
to the erasive power. Some of the brown soaps sold in market 
are seventy-five per cent, resin, and the buyer -gets only twenty- 
five per cent, of what he wants for his money. Fifteen per cent, 
of resin improves the quality, but any excess damages it, and is 
worse than useless. Almost every family may make excellent soft 
soap with very little expense by saving grease, and using lye from 
hard wood ashes or pure potash. Never use concentrated lye. 



THE LAUNDRY. 355 

Melt the grease and boil with the lye if possible ; if not, put cold 
lye into cask, melt the grease and pour into the lye. Twenty-five 
pounds of grease will make a thirty-two gallon cask of soap. Stir 
thoroughly occasionally for a day or two. If the lye is too weak or 
too strong, it will not cut the grease; if too strong, add 'water, if too 
weak, add lye. To test, take out some in a dipper and experiment 
with it. The lye should bear up an egg so that only a part as large 
as a ten cent piece is exposed. The soap when done should be al- 
most transparent and free from any cloudy appearance. It will not 
pay any family to make hard soap, but great care should be taken to 
get only that which is perfectly pure. "Dobbin's Eclectic" is the 
only pure brand I know of that is widely sold. — /, F. Fletcher, Min- 
neapolis, Minn. 

BLUING. 

Take one ounce of Prussian blue, one-half ounce of oxalic acid, dis- 
solve in one quart of perfectly soft rain water ; insert a quill through the 
cork of bluing bottle to prevent waste, or putting too much in clothes, 
and you will be pleased with the result. One or two tablespoons of it 
is sufficient for a tub of water, according to the size of tub. Chinese 
blue is the best and costs twelve and a half cents an ounce, the acid 
will cost three cents. This amount will last a medium sized family one 
year. 

FLOUR STARCH- 

Have kettle or pan on stove with one quart boiling water, into which 
stir three heaping tablespoons flour, previously mixed smooth in a little 
cold water ; stir steadily until it boils, and then often enough to keep 
from burning. Boil about five minutes, strain while hot through a 
crash towel. The above quantity is enough for one dress, and will 
make it nice and stiff. Flour starch is considered better for all calicoes 
than fine starch, since it makes them stiffer, and the stiffness is longer 
retained. 

TO MAKE FINE STARCH. 

Wet the starch smooth in a little cold water, in a large tin pan, pour 
on a quart boiling water to two or three tablespoons starch, stirring rapidly 
all the while ; place on stove, stir until it boils, and then occasionally ; 
boil from five to fifteen minutes, or until the starch is perfectly clear. 
Some add a little salt, or butter or pure lard, or stir with a sperm candle ; 
others add a teaspoon kerosene to one quart starch ; this prevents that 
stickiness sometimes so annoying in ironing. Either of the above in- 
gredients is an improvement to flour starch. Many, just before using 
starch, add a little bluing. Cold starch is made from starch dissolved 
in cold water, being careful not to have it too thick ; since it rots the 
clothes, it is not advisable to use it — the same is true of potato starch. 

ENAMEL FOR SHIRT BOSOMS. 
Melt together with a gentle heat, one ounce white wax, and two 



356 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

ounces spermaceti ; prepare in the usual way a sufficient quantity of 
starch for a dozen bosoms, 'put into it a piece of .this enamel the size 
of a hazel nut, and in proportion for a larger ironing. This will give 
your clothes a beautiful polish. 

HOW TO DO UP SHIRT BOSOMS. 

Take two tablespoons best starch, add a very little water to it, rub 
and stir with a spoon into a thick p^ste, carefulJy breaking all the lumps 
ancJ particles. Add a pint of boiling water, stirring at the same time ; 
boil half an hour stirring occasionally to keep it from burning. Add a 
piece of starch polish the size of a large pea ; if this is not at hand use 
a tablespoon of gum arable solution (made by pouring boiling water 
upon gum arable and standing until clear and transparent) , or a piece 
of clean mutton tallow half the size of a nutmeg and a teaspoon of salt' 
will do, but is not as good. Strain the starch through a strainer or a 
piece of thin muslin. Have the shirts turned wrong side out ; dip 
the bosoms carefully in the starch and squeeze out, repeating the op- 
peration until the bosoms are thoroughly and evenly saturated with 
starch ; proceed to dry. Three hours before ironing dip the bosoms in 
clean water ; wring out and roll up tightly. First iron the back by 
folding it lengthwise through the centre ; next iron the wristbands; and 
both sides of the sleeves ; then the collar band ; now place the bosom-' 
board under the bosom, and with a dampened napkin rub the bosom from 
the top towards the bottom, smoothing and arranging each plait neatly. 
With a smooth, moderately hot flat-iron, begin at the top and iron 
downwards, and continue the operation until the bosom is perfectly 
dry and shining. Remove the bosom-board, and iron the front of the 
shirt. If the irons become rough or smoky lay a little fine salt on a 
flat surface and rub them well ; it will prevent them from sticking to 
anything stafched, and make them smooth; or scour with bath- brick 
before heating, and when hot rub well with salt, and. then with a small 
piece of beeswax tied up in a rag, after which wipe clean on a dry 
cloth. 

TO WASH FLANNELS. 

Make a strong suds of boiling water and soft soap — hard soap 
makes flannels stiff' and wiry — put them in, pressing them down under 
the water with a clothes stick ; when cool enough rub the articles 
carefully between the hands, then wring — but not through the wringer 
— as dry as possible, shake, snap out, and pull each piece into its 
original size and shape, then throw immediately into another tub of 
boiling water, in which you have thoroughly mixed some nice bluing. 
Shake them up and down in this last water with a, clothes stick until 
cool enough for the hands, then rinse well, wring, shake out and pull 
into shape — the snapping and pulling are as necessary as the wash- 
ing — and hang in a sunny place where they will dry quickly. Many 
prefer to rinse in two waters with the bluing in the last, and this is al- 
ways advisable when there are many flannels. 



THE LAUNDRY. 357 

HOW TO WASH BLANKETS. 

All that is necessary is abundance of soft water, ana soap without 
re^in in it. Resin hardens the fibres of wool, and should never be 
used in washing any kind of flannel goods. Blankets treated as above 
will always come out clean and soft. A little bluing may be used 
in washing white blankets. — North Star Woolen Mill, Minneapolis, 
Minn. 

Blankets should be shaken and snapped until almost dry ; it will 
require two persons to handle them. Woolen shawls, and all woolen 
articles, especially men's wear, are much improved by being pressed 
with a hot iron under damp muslin. 

TO WASH LACE CURTAINS. 

Shake the dust well out of the lace, put in tepid water, in which 
a little soda has been dissolved, and wash at once carefully with the 
hands in several waters, or until perfectly clean; rinse in water well 
blued, also blue the boiled starch quite deeply and squeeze, but do 
not wring. Pin some sheets down to the carpet in a vacant airy room, 
then pin on the curtains stretched to exactly the size they were before 
being wet. In a few hours they will be dry and ready to put up. The 
whole process of washing and pinning down should occupy as little 
time as possible, as lace will shrink more than any other cotton goods 
when long wet. Above all it should not be allowed to " soak " from 
the mistaken idea that it washes more easily, nor should it ever be 
ironed. Every housekeeper should have a pair of frames, made very 
like the old fashioned quilting frames, thickly studded along the inside 
with the smallest size of galvanized tenter hooks, in which to fasten 
the lace, and having holes and wooden pins with which to vary the 
length and breadth to suit the different sizes of curtains. The curtains 
should always be measured before being wet, and strefthed in the 
frames to that size to prevent shrinking. Five or six curtains of the 
same size may be put in, one above the other, and all dried at once. 
The frames may rest on four chairs. 

TO WASH THREAD LACE. 

Cover a bottle with white flannel, baste the lace carefully on the 
flannel and rub with white soap ; place the bottle in a jar filled with 
warm suds, let remain two or three days, changing the water several 
times, and boil with the finest white clothes on washing day ; when 
cooled a little, rinse several times in plenty of cold water, wrap a soft 
dry towel around it and place in the sun ; when diy, unwind, but do 
not starch. 

TO WASH A SILK DRESS. 

To wash a silk dress with gall soap, rip apart and shake off the 
dust, have ready two tubs warm soft water, make a suds of the soap 
in one tub, and use the other for rinsing, wash the silk, one piece at a 
time, in the suds, wring gently, rinse, again wring, shake out, and 



358 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

iron with a hot iron on what you intend to be the wrong side. Thus 
proceed with each piece, and when about half done throw out the 
suds and make suds of the rinsing water, using fresh water for rinsing. 

GALL SOAP. 

For washing woolens, silks, or fine prints hable to fade : One pint of 
gall, two pounds common bar soap cut fine, and one quart boiling 
soft water ; boil slowly, stirring occasionally until well mixed ; pour 
into a flat vessel, and when cold cut into pieces to dry. 

TO PREVENT BLUE FROM FADING. 

To prevent blue from fading, put an ounce of sugar of lead into a 
pail of water, soak the material in the solution for two hours, and let 
dry before being washed and ironed ; good for all shades of blue. 

TO BLEACH MUSLIN. 

For thirty yards of muslin, take one pound of chloride of lime, dis- 
solve in two quarts rain water; let cloth soak over night in warm rain . 
water, or long enough to be thoroughly wet ; wring out cloth and put 
it in another tub of warm rain water in which the chloride of lime so- 
lution has been poured. Let it remain for about twenty minutes, 
lifting up the clcth and airing it every few moments, and rinse in clear 
rainwater. This will not injure the cloth in the least, and is much 
less trouble than bleaching on the grass. 

Or, scald in suds and lay them on the clean grass all night, or if this 
cannot be done, bring in and place in a tub of clean soft water. In 
the morning scald again and put out as before. It will take from one 
or two weeks to bleach white. May be bleached in winter by placing 
on the snow. May is the best month for bleaching. To whiten yel- 
low linens or muslins, soak over night or longer in buttermilk, rinse 
thoroughl)^and wash the same as other clothes. This will also answer 
for light calicoes, percales, lawns, etc., that will not fade. Some use 
sour milk when not able to procure buttermilk. To whiten yellow 
laces, old collars, etc, but in glass buttle or jar in a strong suds, let 
stand in sun for several days, shaking occasionally. 

BROWN LINEN 

May be kept looking new until worn out if always washed in starch 
water and hay tea. Make flour starch in the ordinary way. For one 
dress put on the stove a common sized milk pan full of timothy hay, 
pour on water, cover, and boil until the water is of a dark green color ; 
then turn into the starch, let the goods soak in it a few minutes, and 
wash without soap ; the starch will clean the fabric, and no rinsing is 
necessary. 

TO CLEANSE ARTICLES MADE OF WHITE ZEPHYR. 

Rub in flour, changing it as often as it looks soiled. Shake the flour 
from it and hang in the open air a short time. — Mrs. A. S. C. 



FLORAL. 359 



FLORAL. 



MY MORNING GLORIES. 
• Doubtless we all have a great respect for our mother Eve, whom a 
well known author, in utter defiance of Blair or Murray, has called 
the "fairest of all her daughters," but it may be we have felt at times 
that but for her early experiments in pomology, our lives would have 
been very different from what they are, and that cooks and cook books 
would have been unnecessary ; that we should have roamed, at our 
own sweet will, among lovely flowers and odorous shrubs, satisfying 
our hunger with fruits, fresh and perfect, right from God's own hand, 
never suffering pain or sorrow, reposing when weary on soft couches 
of moss and fragrant flowers, lulled to slumber by the sweet songs of 
birds and the soft rustling of leaves above our heads, and awakening 
refreshed to new pleasures and enjoyments in this blissful Arcadian 
life, which would have gone on forever. And this train of thought 
came into my mind this morning from seeing a lovely morning glory 
vine adorning the plain fence which surrounds my garden, glori- 
fying it with its bewitching grace and brilliant color, illuminating the 
whole landscape, giving sweet thoughts to the working man as he goes 
forth to his toil, lighting up with pleasure the faces of the little chil- 
dren as they pass along to school, and warming and brightening won- 
derfully the heart of the careworn anxious mother with recollections 
of her merry girlhood time, when " her precious mother took the re- 
sponsibilities of housekeeping, and she sang merrily as she trained the 
vines and arranged the vases and bouquets, to make the dear home 
bright and beautiful. And as I admire the freshness of the new-made 
blossoms, I wonder if Eve had anything in Eden more lovely and 
delicate, and if she, surrounded by a wealth and luxuriance of flowers, 
with Adam to dress and train them for her, appreciated them as 
much, or looked upon them as lovingly as we do our floral beau- 
ties, for which we labor and toil. I can hardly believe she did, 
and thinking it all over, it seems to me that it is our duty and should 
make a large part of our enjoyment to cultivate these beautiful vines 



860 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

which grow so readily and reward us so \yell, in greater profusion so 
that all who pass by them on their way to daily toil, may inhale large 
draughts of pleasure from their coronets of many colored blossoms, ar- 
ayed in such wondrous beauty as far surpasses Solomon in all his 
glory, and may be led by their silent unintrusive teachings to thank 
God for His beautiful gifts, and to love Him sincerely for strewing 
the rough paths of life with such perfect unsullied loveliness. — Mrs, 
Gen. Van Cleve, Minneapolis, Minn. 

HOUSE PLANTS. 

Plants that require a high or low temperature, or a very moist at- 
mosphere, and plants that bloom only in summer are undesirable. Pro- 
cure fresh sandy loam, with an equal mixture of well rotted turf, leaf 
mold and cow yard manure, with a small quantity of soot. In re- 
potting use one size larger than they were grown in ; hard burned or 
glazed pots prevent the circulation of air. Secure drainage by broken 
crockery and pebbles laid in the bottom of the pot. An abundance 
of light is important, and when this cannot be given, it is useless to 
attempt the culture of flowering plants. If possible they should have 
the morning sun, as one hour of sunshine then is worth two in the af- 
ternoon. Fresh air is also essential but cold chilling draughts should 
be avoided. Water from one to three times a week with soft luke-, 
warm water, draining off all not absorbed by the earth. Do not permit 
water to stand in the saucers, as the only plants thriving under such 
treatment are calla lilies, and even for these it is not necessary un- 
less while blooming. Dust is a great obstacle to the growth of plants; 
a good showering will generally remove it, but all the smooth leaved 
plants such as camellias, ivies, etc., should be occasionally sponged 
to keep the foliage clean and healthy. Plants succeed best in an even 
temperature ranging from sixty to seventy degrees during the day, 
with from ten to twelve degrees lower at night. If troubled with in- 
sects put them under a box or barrel and smoke from thirty to sixty 
minutes with tobacco leaves. For the red spider, the best remedy is 
to lay the plants on the side and sprinkle well or shower. Repeat if 
necessary. The soil should be frequently stirred to prevent caking. 
If manures are used give in a liquid form. Some of the most suitable 
plants for parlor culture are pelargoniums, geraniums, fuchisas, palms, 
begonias, monthly roses, camellias, azaleas, oranges, lemons, Chinese 
and English primroses, abutilons, narcissus, heliotrope, stevias, bou-. 
vardias, petunias and the gorgeous flowering plant poinsettia pulcher- 
rima. Camellias and azaleas require a cooler temperature than most 
plants, and the poinsettia a higher temperature. Do not sprinkle the 
foilage of the camellias while the flower buds are swelling, as it will 
cause them to droop, nor sprinkle them in the sunshine. They should 
have a temperature of about forty degrees and more shade. By fol- 
lowing these rules, healthy flowering plants will be the result. J. S. R., 



FLORAL. 361 

IF HOUSE PLANTS 

Are watered once a week with water in which are mixed a few drops 
of ammonia, they will thrive much better. Sometimes small white 
worms are found in the earth ; lime water will kill them. Stir up the 
soil before pouring it on to expose as many as possible. For'running 
vines burn beef-bones, pulverize and mix with the earth. 

TO KEEP PLANTS WITHOUT A FIRE AT NIGHT, 

Have made of wood or zinc, a tray about four inches deep, with a 
handle on either end, water tight — paint it outside and in, put in each 
corner a post as high as the tallest of your plants, and it is ready for 
use. Arra!nge your flower pots in it, and fill between them with saw- 
dust; this absorbs the moisture falling from the plants when you water 
them, and retains the warmth acquired during the day, keeping the 
temperature of the roots even. When you retire at night spread over 
the posts a blanket or shawl, and there is no danger of freezing. The 
tray may be placed on a stand or table and easily moved about. 

WINDOW GARDENING. 

All the varieties of English ivy, the hoya carnosa, the passion 
flower, the jasmine, the pilogyne suavis, and begonias are especially 
suitable for window culture. Very pretty effects may be produced at 
the cost of a few cents, by planting verbenas, morning glories, cobea 
scandens, and the maurandias in baskets or flower-pots, which may be 
concealed behind statuary or bronzes. The best fertilizer for them or 
any other house plants is thit afforded by the tea pot ; the cold tea- 
grounds usually thrown away, if poured as a libation to these house- 
hold fairies, will produce a miracle of beauty and perfume. 

SURE SHOT FOR ROSE SLUGS. 

Make a tea of tobacco stems and a soap-suds of whale oil or car- 
bolic soap, mix and apply to the bush with a sprinkler, turning the 
bush so as to wet the under as well as the upper part of the leaves ; 
apply before the sun is up three or four times. 

ANOTHER. 

About the first of June, small worms make their appearance on the 
rose bushes, and in a very few days eat every leaf on them ; to destroy 
these pests take four gallons water, add one tablespoon paris green, 
stir thoroughly and apply to the bushes wilh a garden syringe or 
watering pot, early in the morning ; keep the water well stirred or 
shaken while applying, or the last in the pot will be too strong and 
kill the leaves of the bushes. — Mr. C. Phellis, Sr. 

TO PREPARE AUTUMN LEAVES AND FERNS. 

Immediately after gathering, take a moderately warm iron, smear it 



362 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

well with white wax, rub over each surface of the leaf once, apply- 
more wax for each leaf; this process causes leaves to roll about as when 
hanging on the tree. If pressed more they become brittle and remain 
perfectly flat. Maple and oak are among the most desirable, and may 
be gathered any time after the severe frosts ; but the sumac and ivy 
must be secured as. soon after the first slight frost as they become 
tinted, or the leaflets will fall from the stem. Ferns may be selected 
any time during the season. A large book must be used in gathering 
them, as they will be spoiled for pressing if carried in the hand. A 
weight should be placed on them until they are perfectly dry ; then, 
excepting the moSt delicate ones, it will be well to press them like the 
leaves, as they are liable to curl when placed in a warm atmosphere ; 
these will form beautiful combinations with the sumac and ivy. 

TO PREPARE SKELETON LEAVES. 

When properly prepared, skeleton leaves form a companion to the 
scrap book or collection of pressed ferns, fronds, etc. This is a tedi- 
ous operation, and requires skill and great patience to obtain satis- 
factory results. Some leaves are easier to dissect and make better 
specimens than others, and as a rule a hard thin leaf should be chosen ; 
that is, when a special variety is not required. Among those which 
are skeletonized most successfully, are the English ivy, box elder, 
willow, grape, pear, rose, etc. They should be gathered during the 
month of June, or as soon as the leaf is fully developed. The leaves 
should be immersed in a vessel of rain water and allowed to remain 
till decomposed ; when this takes place, press the leaf between pieces 
of soft flannel and the film will adhere to the flannel, leaving a perfect 
net work ; dry off' gradually and clean the specimen with a soft hair 
pencil, place between folds of soft blotting paper, and when perfectly 
dry, place in your collection. To bleach the leaves, dissolve one-half 
pound chloride of lime into three pints of rain water, strain and use 
one part of solution to one of water. For ferns use the solution full 
strength. When perfectly white remove to clear water, let stand for 
several hours, changing water two or three times, float out on paper 
and press between blotting paper in books. In mounting use mucil- 
age made of five parts gum arable, three parts white sugar, two parts 
starch ; add very little water, boil and stir till thick and white. 

DRYING FLOWERS. 

Take clean sand, wash in several waters, dry thoroughly in the stove, 
weigh and to every twelve pounds take one ounce of stearine scraped 
fine, heat sand over a fire and scatter stearine over it, stir constantly 
until sand is thoroughly coated ; take a box six inches deep, ten inches 
wide, and fifteen inches long ; bore a half dozen half-inch holes in 
bottom, paste strong paper over them, sift a layer of sand a quarter of 
an inch deep into box, lay as many flowers and leaves on sand as you 
can, sift upon them another layer of sand, knocking the sides of the' 
box gently until every little space between and under the flowers is 



:4i, 



PLOEAL. 363 

well filled, put in another layer of flowers, and so on until box is full ; 
put on lid securely, place box under or near the stove or where it will 
be constantly warm, and they will be done in four days, if only ex- 
posed to the sun it will take longer. To remove flowers, cut through 
the bits of paper at ihe bottom and let the sand run out, place open 
box in a cool, moist cellar for a few hours, and then take out the 
flowers. If these directions are followed carefully the natural color of 
the flowers will be preserved, and if protected from dust and the sun, 
will keep for a long time. 

TO CRYSTALIZE GRASSES. 

Dissolve two pounds of alum in one quart of boiling water, and let 
cool nearly down to blood heat ; pour over the grasses which have 
previously been suspended over a basin or jar; let stand in the shade 
twenty-four hours. 

TO MAKE A RUSTIC FLOWER STAND. 

Take a stump up by the roots, turn it upside down, put firmly in the 
ground and sow flower seeds in it. The rustic sticks used by nursery- 
men for hanging baskets, urns, etc., are the knotted roots of the bush 
known as greenbrier, common in the woods in northern Ohio. 

TO PROTECT DAHLIAS FROM EARWIGS. 

Soak a piece of raw cotton in kerosene and slightly tie it round the 
stem and stakes, if any, about a foot from the ground ; as the oil dries 
apply more. 

TO CLEAR ROSE TREES FROM BLIGHT (GREEN FLY). 

Take sulphur and tobacco dust in equal quantities and strew over 
the trees early in the morning when the dew is on them. When the 
insects disappear syringe the trees with a decoction of elder leaves. 

TO FREE BEDDING PLANTS FROM LEAF LICE. 

Mix an ounce of flour of sulphur with one bushel of sawdust ; 
scatter this over the plants and the insects will soon disap pear, though 
a second application may possibly be necessary. 

AN EXCELLENT SHADING FOR A GREENHOUSE. 

Mix one pound of salt with ten pounds of unslacked lime, cover 
with boiling water, stirring briskly ; when cold, thin with buttermilk 
to the consistency of paint, and apply with a common whitewash 
brush on the outside of the glass. 



364 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



FARM AND GARDEN. 



APPLES. 

This kind of fruit may be grown on almost any farm or lot by judi- 
cious selection of varieties and proper culture and training. A sloping 
hillside contiguous to a well defined valley, forms the choicest orchard 
site, not only .for the apple, but also for pears and all other fruits. In 
any case secure good surface drainage, and if the soil is heavy and te- 
nacious it should be underdrained. Low situations and heavy soil 
should be avoided. Cold air settles in the valleys, forcing the heated 
air upon the more elevated portions, so that frosts are more frequent 
and severe on low ground. In planting an orchard get good strong 
healthy trees of three or four years' growth. As to varieties, those 
which do well in one locality are not certain to thrive in another, and 
it is always best to ascertain what sorts have been tested and approved 
in the neighborhood. Hardy and productive kinds of second quality 
are more satisfactory than fruits of greater excellence which lack in 
these qualities. For the commercial orchard, where a large quantity 
of fruit is to be produced for market, it is best to plant only a few va- 
rieties, and these should be productive, hardy, of the "iron clad" class,, 
and of such a character as to bear transportation and to command a 
ready market. In planting, let the soil be in the condition, and pre- 
pared in the manner as for good crop of potatoes or other hoed crop. 
A hole should be dug only large enough to admit the roots in a nat- 
ural position, and at a depth not greater than they had in the nursery. 
The earth to fill in about the roots should be well pulverized, that it 
may be worked thoroughly in with the hands ; when nearly filled up, 
enough water should be poured in to settle the earth firmly about 'the 
roots. When,,the water has sunk away, fill up immediately to prevent 
baking. This system obviates the necessity of tramping in trees with 
the feet, a vicious practice. When planted in the fall, a mound of six 
or eight inches high should be thrown up about the tree to secure it 
against frost and surplus water. In the spring the mound should be 
removed. No manure should be placed in contact with the roots of a 
tree in planting, especially an evergreen. Newly planted trees are 
much benefitted by mulching, if they do not have careful cultivation.- 

THE CHERRY. 

Soils naturally adapted to the chestnut appear to be the most suitable 
for cherries. They should receive no stimulating manures, and but 
little culture, as a luxuriant growth causes the bark to burst, injuring 



FARM ANB GARDEN. 365 

the tree. The best results have been secured from trees grown in 
grass with a moderate, sound, healthy growth. Some hardy varieties 
seem to do equally well on clay or sand, hill or valley, timber or prairie. 
These are called the Dukes and the Morellos. The most valuable is 
the large Montmorency, Early Richmond and May Duke. Cherries 
may be planted from twelve to twenty feet apart and not deeper than 
they were in the nursery. Trees two or three years from bud are old 
enough. They should be headed back and grown in their natural, 
conical form. Prune while young, as stone fruits do not readily heal 
over the stump of a large limb. 

PEARS. 

At least a few pear trees should be planted in every orchard. The 
crop is certain and any surplus may be readily and profitably disposed 
of. The force of the old saying " planting pears for one's heirs " has 
been lost by the advance of pomology, for many varieties now in 
cultivation are early and productive bearers, and we have the means 
of forcing early fruitage upon varieties that formerly wore out the pa- 
tience of the orchardist before they reached the bearing stage. The 
pear will grow in a variety of soils, but attains the greatest perfection 
in a strong, clayey loam. Even heavy tenacious clay soil, well under- 
drained, is adapted to it. Light, sandy or gravelly soil is unsuitable. 
The three points essential to security from blight and the successful 
growing of pears, are, ist. Sound, healthy trees, three years from bud; 
2d. Ground with a predominance of clay, suiBciently rolling to secure 
perfect surface drainage ; 3d. Thorough underdrainage ; with these 
give only a moderate degree of cultivation early in the season, as a 
late giowfh is an invitation to the attack of disease. Fifteen or twenty 
feet is wide enough apart for most sorts, and many will succeed if 
planted much closer. The trees should be trained in a conical, or pyr- 
amidal form, by causing them to branch low, by curbing, thinning out 
and shortening the upper limbs so as to keep the lower branches 
always the longest. If blight appears, or there is a failure of crop, it 
means that the soil is exhausted and needs to be supplied with pear tree 
food. This must be supplied artificially, and chemical analysis shows 
what ingredients are needed, and that wood ashes, crushed and un- 
crushed bones, and common salt, furnish the necessary potash, lime, 
phosphate of lime and soda needed by the exhausted soil. In applying 
these and all other fertilizers, the golden rule is moderation ; too much 
may prove fatal. This is particularly true of alkalies. In all cases 
rich, unfermented stable manure is to be avoided. Trees of a moder- 
ately ' vigorous growth, perfectly matured before winter, are so seldom 
blighted as to be for all practical purposes exempt. A safe practice is 
to cover the body and all the. principal branches of the tree with a 
wash made by placing a peck of lime and two pounds of sulphur in a 
vessel and adding sufficient boiling water to slack the lime. An ounce 
of carbolic acid may be added. Where the trees have attained size the 
sulphur may be applied by boring a hole with a three-quarter auger in 

23 



366 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

the trunk of the tree, inserting a tablespoon of the mixture and plug- 
ging. 

THE QUINCE 

Is hardy, compact in growth, and requires but little space, and with 
proper attention is very productive. It flourishes in any good garden 
soil, but prefers moist situations. If set in clumps in a lawn and 
kindly cared for it is highly ornamental. No fruit pays better for at- 
tention and manuring. Coal and wood ashes and the refu'se suds of 
the washing are very beneficial, and salt is one of its best fertilizers. 
Apply about one quart to the ground under each tree early in the 
spring and another quart when the quinces are half grown. 

TO RAISE PLANTS OF CURRANTS AND GOOSEBERRIES. 

As soon as the leaf drops in autumn, trim out the new growth into 
cuttings four to six inches long ; open a trench with one side perpen- 
dicular and set the cuttings along the perpendicular side, having the 
top bud come about even with the surface ; pack the soil against them 
firmly. Cover just as winter sets in with a deep mulch of some coarse 
material to prevent hard freezing and "heaving ;" remove mulch in 
the spring and keep the ground mellow. 

To prevent mildew on gooseberry bushes, sprinkle the bushes with 
a weak solution of saleratus well mixed with alum. 

THE RASPBERRY 

Flourishes in almost any soil, and will thrive in neglected fence 
corners, but a good loam, well cultivated, gives thff best results. It 
bears liberal manuring, and should be planted in fall or early spring, 
three feet apart in rows from six to nine feet wide, or for garden 
planting much closer. Summer pruning is now practiced by all good 
cultivators, which consists in pinching or cutting off the shoots as soon 
as they are two feet high, which causes them to branch out with 
strong laterals ; these are cut back according to their strength in the 
winter. In autumn or winter the old cones and the weak new ones 
should be cut away and only the strong and healthy left foi: the next 
crop. Trained thus no support is needed. Leaf and woods mold, 
crushed sugar cane stalks, straw, grass, chips, ashes and rotted tan- 
bark are all good mulching material, and placed close around the 
roots insure big crops. — J. S. Robinson. 

REMEDY FOR THE PLUM CURCULIO. 

Prepare a muslin spread large enough to cover the ground under 
the tree as far out as the branches extend ; give the tree a vigorous 
shake or two, and the insects will drop off upon the sheet, and may 
be readily gathered up and dispatched. In the few first hot days of 
spring the insect begins its work of destruction in earnest and the 
process of shaking should then begin and be carried on vigorously 
morning, noon and evening, and kept up as long as any curculios are 



FARM AND GARDEN. 367 

found, seldom over a period of twenty-five days, unless the season is 
cool and backward. Of course there will be a stray insect now and 
then till the plum changes color for ripening, but the damage will be 
slight. The writer has tried many remedies but all have failed mis- 
erably except this, which has repeatedly saved his crop of plums 
when all other trees in the neighborhood have failed. — y. H. Shearer. 

TO PREVENT RABBITS FROM EATING THE BARK OF 
YOUNG FRUIT TREES. 

Saturate a woolen cloth well with common soft soap and rub the 
trees two or three times each winter. It not only protects them 
from rabbits, but is excellent for the tree, making the bark smooth 
and healthy. 

PROTECTING CABBAGE FROM WORMS. 

Mix wheat bran and buckwheat flour together and sprinkle dry over 
cabbage. It does not matter about quantity. — Miss Abbie Phellis 
Baker. 

TO RAISE CELERY. 

Make the ground as rich as possible with old well rotted pulverized 
manure, set the plants in rows six inches apart with twelve inches 
space between rows, without trenching-. As the plants grow and re- 
quire handling, earth them up by filling dirt in between the rows. 
Make rows about twenty feet long, and after filling in between the 
first two, lay a board on the dirt so filled in, and run the wheelbarrow 
on it to fill in the next space, and so on till all are filled. By this pro- 
cess six times the amount of celery may be raised on a given space of 
ground, and with much less labor than by trenching. By this plan 
you have the rich warm surface soil for the plants to grow in ; the 
heavy rains do not wash the dirt in and swamp the young plants, and 
you economize space. Great care should be taken not to let the dirt 
sprinkle in between the stalks of the plants as you fill between the 
■ rows. After filling in the dirt, hold the stalks firmly together with 
one hand and press the dirt around them with the other ; twice or 
three times filling up will do ; and two wagon loads of dark rich dirt 
is enough to earth up six hundred plants. — Major W. D. Hall, Min- 
neapolis, Minn. 

HOW TO RAISE INDIAN CORN. 

Plow as early in the spring as the season will permit with three 
horses abreast, seven or eight inches deep ; harrow and roll until the 
ground is thoroughly pulverized ; plant from the first to the fifteenth 
of May, with Dickey drill, three or four inches deep in rows three and 
one-half feet apart. As soon as the corn begins coming up, harrow 
again with a light harrow thoroughly, giving no attention to rows. 
When the plants are about three or four inches high, plow with a 
walking or double-shovel plow, with shovels about two inches wide. 



368 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

close to the com — the closer the better — and quite deep. For the 
rest of the culture use common sized shovels, and plow about every 
eight days until the corn is about three and a half or four feet high. — 
Mr. C. Phellis, Sr., Darby Plains. 

REMEDY FOR SMUT IN WHEAT. 

Soak the seed wheat in brine and then dust it with unslacked lime. 
This is a sure preventive. 

THE HORSE. 

The secret of breaking and managing a horse is contained in the 
Good Book: " He that hath mercy on his beast, hath mercy on him- 
self." Study the disposition of the animal, remembering that the 
horse is an intelligent creature, and will study yours. He forms strong 
attachments, accommodates himself so far as his nature will permit, to 
the disposition and habits of his master. The horse, like the man, 
must be curbed in the start, and this stage of breaking is the most im- 
portant and perilous. To gain the confidence of the untutored colt' 
is the first thing. To do this take an ear of corn in your hand, walk 
around and around him, coming closer and closer, until he can reach 
and nibble the corn, do not grab at him or attempt to do anything 
but caress him. Next time take a halter with you, and slip ' over his 
head, coaxing him with the corn and taking care not to pull, letting go 
rather than to force him. Next put a surcingle about his body, fasten 
a strap to his off fore foot, double up the near foreleg and strap it up ; 
draw the strap which is fastened to the other foot through the surcingle 
over the back on the off side, cause the colt to step, and draw this also 
up to the body, push him over, and five minutes of struggling while you 
remain cool and quiet, pelting, but not striking him, will teach him 
his first lesson that man is stronger than he. Harness him with a steady 
horse without hitching to any load, drive him for ten minutes, and 
turn him out again, be quiet, gentle, cautious and firm, and you will 
succeed. No colt should be considered broken, until he will hold 
back a buggy without breeching, while it is crowding up on his hind 
legs. The most perilous accident that can occur in driving is the 
breaking of the harness in going down hill, and with a little care a colt 
may be broken so that the sudden pushing of the vehicle upon him will 
not frighten him. Begin by pushing it gently upon him while stand- 
ing until he gets accustomed to the sensation, then make him back the 
vehicle, until he does it without timidity, and finally push it against 
him with force. Remember that a horse needs to learn a lesson but 
once and he never forgets it. Balky horses are made, as a rule, by 
balky men, who impose heavy burdens on colts before they know how 
to draw. — y. W. Starr. 

GOOD FEED FOR HORSES. 

A new and favorite kind of mash for horses is just coming into use, 
composed of two quarts of oats, one of bran, and half pint of flax seed". 



FARM AND GARDEN. 369 

The oats are first placed in a bucket over which is placed the flax seed 
and boiling water, then the bran ; cover the bucket with a rug, and 
let sweat, stir well, feed once a day.^y. W. Starr. 

FOR COLIC IN HORSES. 

Give salt freely. For wounds on horses, use carbolic acid and 
glycerine in proportion of one to twenty. For botts in horses, turn 
the horse on his back, give one pint flax seed oil and keep him on 
his back a few minutes. Loss of appetite in horses. — Two quarts of 
sour apples is the best medicine to improve the appetite of a horse. 

CURE FOR BLOAT IN CALVES. 

When a calf that is being raised by hand is overfed and becomes 
bloated, give it, if two months old, a tablespoon of good tar, if three 
months old, a half teacupful. This is also good for bloat in horses. 
If cows give bloody milk, polk root sliced or grated and mixed with 
bran will cure. 

. CHOKED CATTLE 

May sometimes be quickly relieved by throwing a quantity of snuff 
up the nostrils ; the coughing that follows usually throws out the ob- 
struction. Driving the cattle rapidly often has the same effect. 

LICE ON CATTLE 

May be removed by rubbing plentifully the neck, back and other 
parts where the lice are found with lard oil, or other soft grease. 

HOG CHOLERA. 

If the hog is not too far gone the following will cure in every in- 
stance : Mix equal parts of finely powdered ginger and allspice with 
any kind of ground feed, giving two or three tablespoons three times 
a day to a full grown hog. There is no danger of giving too much. 
Wood ashes thrown around and in the pen is a good preventive. 

TO KILL TICKS ON SHEEP. 

Fill a dredging-box with scotch snuff, and when sheep are sheared, 
sift it plentifully along the back-bone, and wherever there seem to be 
ticks give them a good supply. This is also good for lice on cattle, etc. 

TO CURE GRUB IN SHEEP. 

Mix one quart of whisky and two ounces of yellow snuff, heat to a 
blood-heat and inject into each nostril. To cure stretches in sheep. 
Make a tea of red pepper, and give two doses a day. 

TO CURE FOOT-ROT IN SHEEP, 

As soon as sheep become lame, pass them through a trough contain- 
ing a warm solution made of four ounces of arsenic, four ounces of 



370 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

potash in one gallon of water; boil till dissolved. Keep it about three 
inches deep so as to cover the feet as the sheep walk through. The 
trough should be about twenty feet long and just wide enough to admit 
of one sheep walking after another. This will cure in every instance 
and a thousand may be run through in one hour. 

CHICKEN CHOLERA. 

Dissolve in one gallon of water a piece of alum size of a walnut, 
shut chickens up and set this alum water before them and leave no 
other water in their reach. — A. Houghton Morey. 

CHICKEN CHOLERA. 

Clean the chicken house every spring and wash the perches with 
coal oil, use copperas dissolved and sprinkled around plentifully as a 
disinfectant. As soon as any signs of cholera appear, feed the chickens 
the following : A good teaspoon saleratus or soda to every quart of 
corn meal mixed with water; give this once every two or three days, 
and oftener if badly affected, This has been tried where they have 
had the disease for several successive seasons, and proved effectual. — 
Mrs. E. T. Carson. 

GAPES IN CHICKENS. 

The way to cure gapes in chickens is to take the worms out of their 
windpipes. Take a blue-grass stem, strip off the seed, leaving the 
branches of the head about an inch in length ; open the chicken's 
mouth, insert the stem in the windpipe, turn it softly around between 
the thumb and finger, then draw it out. If you have the worms out, 
the chicken is cured; if not, try again. Be particular to twist the 
stem down, not push, as that might force the worms down and the 
chicken be choked. Gapes may be prevented as well as cured by 
mixing asafoetida or red pepper with the food of the chickens. 

TO REMOVE LICE ON FOWLS. 

Let them dust themselves in sand to which some sulphur has been 
added, also put sulphur in their drink, and if some of it is burned in a 
pan (the hen house closely fastened) , it will purify the hennery. Place 
tobacco stems under hens while setting and they will come off their 
nests clear of lice and remain so all summer. 

CHICKEN FEED. 

Corn meal not sifted, sour milk and soda (one teaspoon to a quart 
of milk) mixed together and baked in a pan, then crumbed up and 
soaked (when it becomes hard) makes most excellent chicken feed. 

TO PREVENT CATS KILLING CHICKENS. 

When a cat is seen to catch a chicken, tie it around her neck 
(firmly, for she will do her best to rid herself of it). Be firm for that 
time, and the cat is cured ; she will never again touch a chicken or bird. 



MEDICAL. 



371 



MEDICAL. 



ANTIDOTES TO POISONS. 

The first thing to do is to cause their ejection by vomiting, to do 
which place mustard mixed with salt on the tongue, or give large 
quantities of lukewarm water, or tickle the throat with a feather. These 
failing, instantly resort to active emetics like tartar emetic, sulphate of 
copper, or sulphate of zinc. After vomiting has taken place with these, 
continue it if possible by copious draughts of warm water till the poison 
is entirely removed. Of course, if vomiting cannot be induced, the 
stomach pump must be employed, especially if arsenic or narcotics 
have been taken. A brief tame formulated as follows may be useful 
for emergencies. 

ANTIDOTES. 
Alkalies — Soap and milk, chalk, soda, lime-water. 
Vegetable Acids — Vinegar, oil in abundance. 
Common salt, moderately. 
Send for the doctor and his stomach pump. 
Oak bark, strong green tea. 
Epsom salts, oils and magnesia. 
Whites of eggs, sweet milk. 
Whites of eggs, or strong coffee. 
Cold douche, followed by friction. 
Starch, wheat flour in water. 
Whites of eggs, sweet milk. 
Lemonade strong, epsom salt. 

Emetics — cold douche, exercise and heat. 

Magnesia in copious draughts. 

Whites of eggs, sweet milk. 

Apply fire in some form to the wound thoroughly 

and immediately. 
Ammonia applied freely. 

Same as for mad dog, followed by whisky to in- 
toxication. 

The foregoing are the more 'common and more important poisons 
and their antidotes. — P. L. Hatch, M. D., Minneapolis, Minn. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

For this place it must be presumed that the symptoms of the disease 
are sufficiently distinct in a given case to be rightly interpreted by non- 
professional persons. At once give of Proto-iodide of Mercurius, third 



POISONS. 
Acids. 
Alkalies. 
Alcohol. 
Arsenic 
Antimony. 
Baryta or Lime. 
Bismuth. 
Copper. 
Gases. 
Iodine. 
Creosote. 
Lead. 
Opium and other 

Narcotics. 
Phosphorus. 
Zinc. 

Mad Dog Bite. 
Bite of Insect. 
Bite of Serpent. 



372 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

decimal trituration, from half to three grains every one to three houri 
according to the age of the patient and the severity of the attack, al 
ways leaning strongly tovi^ard the longer intervals, and never failing tc 
lengthen them vifith the improvement ; use no external applications 
except dry flannel. At the same time, without regard to the inclina- 
tions of the patient, give as often (in severe cases as every two hours) 
as every three hours, the best beef tea or extract of beef in generous 
quantities. In this terrible disease, if a choice were to be made be- 
tween the medicine or the nourishment, by all means retain the latter. 
The best medication may arrest the local effects of the blood poison, 
but cannot resupply the waste of blood, upon which, after all, recovery 
depends. Spend no precious time trying other remedies. Leave this 
to the physician after he assumes the case. — P. L. Hatch, M. £>, 

SCARLET FEVER, 

Like small pox, spreads by infection and contagion. The first symp- 
tom is generally vomiting ; fever soon sets in ; the throat is slightlj 
sore ; there is headache, thirst, restlessness, and slight delirium al 
night. These symptoms continue about forty-eight hours, when the 
rash makes its appearance over the lower part of the neck and upper 
part of the chest. This rash is of a bright scarlet in healthy persons, 
having a velvety appearance, but not raised or rough. On the second 
day of the rash it spreads over the body, and on the third over the 
limbs. At this period it begins to fade on the chest and body, and 
about the third day from its appearance on the hands and feet, it dis- 
appears altogether. It returns, however, as a light blush for several 
days, with more or less fever. With the subsidence of the eruption 
there appears over the body a dandruff-like scurf. This stage is very 
dangerous, from the fact that the removal of this outer coating renders 
the patient peculiarly liable to suppression of perspiration on the 
slightest exposure to cold. Judicious nursing is far more important 
than medicines, but no case should be without a competent physician. 
The room should have a uniform temperature day and night of about 
68° to 70° ; should be well aired, without exposure to drafts. In this 
room the patient should remain until thoroughly well, unless it be in 
the summer season. The clothing should be light during the rash, 
and increased after it until convalescence is established. Give cold 
drinks very sparingly. When the skin is hot, sponge the body fre- 
quently. It is well to bind a piece of fat salt pork on the throat, or 
put around it a light flannel scarf, rubbing the throat daily and freely 
with camphorated oil. The diet should consist of light gruels and 
liquids until the eruption subsides, when it may be solid but still 
simple. After the early stages are passed, the danger will depend 
upon the exposure of the new tender surface to cold and the resulting 
dropsy. The change of an article of clothing, lowering of tempera- 
ture in the room at night, stepping into a cold room, are but few of the 
many ways of so chilling the skin as to suppress perspiration and in- 
duce dropsy. There are two simple methods of rendering patients 



MEDICAL. 373 • 

less liable to dropsy after scarlet fever. First, rub them over fre- 
quently with fatty substances, as lard or oil. Second, frequent warm 
baths during convalescence. After the bath great care should be 
taken to remove the refuse water beyond the reach of exposure, or 
disinfect it. — By an Eminent Physician. 

CHOLERA MIXTURE. 
Take one ounce each of the following ingredients ; tincture opium, 
capsicum or red pepper, rhubarb, peppermint and camphor; put in 
large bottle, with a pint best brandy. Dose is ten to twenty drops in 
two or three teaspoons water. Good in any case of diarrhea. — Mrs. 
Dr. Thomson. 

PIGS FEET OIL. 

Let the liquor in which they have been boiled stand over night ; in 
the morning skim off the fat (will be formed in a cake on top) put in a 
tin pan, boil until all water is evaporated, bottle and keep for use. 
No family where there are small children should be without it. A 
celebrated physician said that a child could not have the croup if pigs 
feet oil was freely given at the first symptoms. 

CURE FOR CORNS. 

The worst corn or bunion can be removed by keeping cotton on it 
saturated with opodeldoc. No pain. 

GOOD CROUP REMEDIES. 

To, one half cup molasses add a teaspoon of saleratus or soda, beat 
to a white froth, give a spoonful every few minutes. Or take four or 
five hollyhock blossoms, boil and apply wet around the throat. Or 
wring a towel out of ice water, and wrap quickly around the throat 
and on the chest with a dry one or flannels over it. 

CONSTIPATION. 

Two ounces of senna, simmer the strength out in one quart of water, 
strain the tea ; one ■ pound prunes cooked soft with half teacup white 
sugar. Several times a day, take first one tablespoon of the senna tea, 
then eat one prune fasting as much as possible. 

SURE CURE FOR CHOLERA INFANTUM. 

One ounce pulverized rhubarb, one ounce peppermint herb, one 
ounce soda. Pour one pint of boiling water on these three and let 
stand on the hearth two hours. Strain, and add one pint best brindy, 
one half pound best white sugar, and one ounce paregoric. Dose : 
one teaspoon every half hour until the discharge shows the color of 
the medicine ; then only every three or folir hours. Good also for 
adults in diarrhea. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Put a half bushel of blackberries in a preserving kettle and cook 



•374 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

until scalded through well ; strain and press out all the juice ; put juice 
in kettle with the following spices well broken up and put into a bag; 
one-quarter pound allspice, two ounces cinnamon bark, two ounces 
cloves, and two nutmegs; add loaf sugar, about- one pound to every 
quart of juice or more if preferred, and cook slowly ten or fifteen min- 
utes, remove from the fire, let cool a little and add good pure brandy 
in the proportion of one pint to every three pints of juice. A 
smaller quantity may be made, using the same proportions. This is an 
excellent remedy for diarrhea and other diseases of the bowels. 

EYE WASH. 

Sulphate of zinc two grains, sulphate of morphine one-half grain, 
distilled water one ounce ; mix and bottle. Drop in the eye (a drop 
or two at once), then wink the eye several times, so that the wash may 
reach all the parts and keep quiet and do not use the eyes for about an 
hour. This wash is for bloodshot eyes, and when used it will produce 
quite a smarting sensation. — Dr. D. W. Henderson. 

FOR SORE MOUTH IN NURSING BABIES. 

A teaspoon each of pulverized alum and borax, half a saltspoon of 
pulverized nut-galls, a tablespoon of honey ; mix and pour on it half a 
teacup boiling water ; let settle and with a clean linen rag wash the 
mouth four or five times a day, using a fresh piece of linen every day. 

GOLDEN OINTMENT. 

One pound lard, eight ounces beeswax, one ounce camphor gum in 
five ounces alcohol, one ounce origanum, one ounce laudanum ; let all. 
dissolve while melting the lard and beeswax, then stir together until 
cold or the camphor will go off in a steam. Do not mix too hot. This 
will cure pain in the side by applying as a plaster. For enlarged - 
neck or goitre dilute with one-fourth iodine. For salt rheum apply 
externally and take cathartics to cleanse the blood. For scald head 
rub togetier one ounce golden ointment and three drachms of red 
precipitate, remove the hair and rub with this twice a day, each day 
washing with castile soap suds. For catarrh, rub the ointment up in 
the nose profusely, and let it remain all nights In the morning draw 
cold water up the nose and thi;ow it back two or three times to clean 
the tubernated bones. Also bathe the face and ears with cold water. 

HEALING SALVE. 

Pint olive oil, half ounce common resin, half ounce beeswax; melt 
well together and bring oil to boiling heat ; add gradually of pulver- 
ized red lead — three eighths of a pound ; (for summer use a trifle more 
lead) in a short time after it is taken up by the oil, and the mixture 
becomes brown or a shining black, remove from the fire and when 
nearly cold add two scruples pulverized camphor. It should remain 
on the fire until it attains a proper consistence for spreading, which 



MEDICAL. 375 

may be known by dipping a splint or knife in the mixture from time 
to time and allowing it to cool. When used spread thinly on a piece 
of tissue paper or old fine linen. Excellent for frost sores or any kind 
that are hard to heal. — Mrs. W. G. March. 

ITCH OINTMENT. 

Two tablespoons lard, one of black pepper, one of ground mustard ; 
boil all together and when taken off and nearly cold, add one table- 
spoon sulphur. Anoint with this three evenings successively just be- 
fore going to bed. Do not change bed clothes or wearing clothes 
during the time. After this wash with castile soap suds, and change 
all the clothing that has been worn or touched. 

SALVE FOR CUTS AND BURNS. 

To one half pound of sweet lard, add one fourth pound of beeswax 
and the same of resin; heat all together till well mixed, pour in a 
little tin box. Apply to the wound a little on a soft cotton clo,th. — Mrs. 
Ford. 

LINIMENT. 

The common May weed blossoms put in alcohol are much superior 
to arnica for the same uses. 

The white of an egg and salt mixed to a thick paste is one of the 
best remedies for sprains or bruises or lameness for man or beast. 
Rub well the parts affected. 

SALT RHEUM. 

A minister who hates quacks and all patent medicine humbugs, had 
a child very sick with the above disease for four years. The child's 
face was covered with the eruption, and the parents could not leave it 
five minutes night or day for all these weary years. They tried sul- 
phur springs, and not a few physicians of both schools in vain. All 
such cases can be cured for 25 or 50 cents, by using "Fowler's Solu- 
tion," a preparation found in all the drug stores. Medicine to be 
given after eating, at first one drop (carefully measured) after each 
meal for a week. Then two drops for a week, then three drops for a 
week, then give none for a week and begin as at first. The best way 
is to give this remedy under the eye of a physician. Not only was 
the above child cured, but others have been who are now residing in 
Marysville. This recipe alone to one afflicted with this disorder is 
worth the price of twenty books. 

TETTER OINTMENT. 

Put one ounce nitric acid in a two ounce vial, add one-half ounce 
quicksilver ; let stand until the acid eats up the silver. Take pure 
sweet lard seven ounces, put in a new earthen dish. Warm the lard 
until nearly melted, pour all together, acid, quicksilver and lard, and 
stir until cold when it is fit for use. Wash the parts affected with pure 



376 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

white Castile soap and warm water, wipe dry and anoint with the 
salve twice a day. Avoid using cold water while using the salve. I 
know this recipe to have cured a bad case of salt rheum in the hands 
of ten years standing. — Mrs. M. B. F. 

Catnip tea is good for colic in young children. 

Sage tea is excellent for the hair. 

Rue tea is good for worms in children. 

Pennyroyal tea is most excellent for a cold. 

FOR SORE THROAT 

Take five cents' worth chlorate of potassa, dissolve and take teaspoon 
every hour, and also gargle with it. — Estelle Woods Wilcox. 

TO PREVENT A CHILD COUGHING AT NIGHT. 

Take one cup of powdered white sugar and make into a stiff mo- 
lasses, add ten cents worth of "Seneka snake root ;" dose one tea- 
spoon on retiring. 

TO PREVENT TAKING COLD. 

If out in cold weather with insufficient clothing or wrappings, fold a 
newspaper and spread across the chest. Persons having weak lungs 
can in this way make for themselves a very cheap and perfect lung , 
protector. Large papers spread between quilts at night add much to 
the warmth. 

To cure a felon. On the first appearance, apply a poultice of the 
common fleur de luce root well mashed. It will cure in a short time. 

To stop bleeding at the nose. Bathe the feet in very hot water, 
drinking at the same time a pint of cayenne pepper tea. — Miss J. B. ' 

To stop bleeding. Apply wet tea leaves or scrapings of sole leather 
to a fresh cut and it will stop the bleeding. 

WHOOPING COUGH. 

Mix one lemon sliced, half pint flax seed, two ounces honey, and 
one quart water, and simmer, not boil, four hours ; strain when cool, 
and if there is less than a pint of the mixture, add water. Dose ; one 
tablespoon four times a day, and one also, after each severe fit of cough- 
ing. Warranted to cure in four days. 

To remove warts. Touch the warts with caustic potassa or liquor 
potassa. The operation is not painful, does not discolor the skin 'and 
removes the warts in a short time leaving the skin perfectly smooth. 

Cure for wounds from rUsty nails. Dip fat pork in turpentine .and 
bind it on the wound. 

To remove cinder from the eye. Dirt usually lodges under 
the upper lid ; take hold of the lashes firmly, draw out and downward 
quickly and let go, and the lashes of the underlid will catch and re- 
tain the foreign substance, which may then be \yiped off. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 377 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



CANARY BIRDS. 

Canary Birds — Do not keep in a room that is being painted or has 
odor of new paint. Do not hang over a stove or grate which 
contains fire. Do not set cage in a window, and shut it down 
upon it; the draft is injurious. Do not wash cage bottom, but scrape 
clean with a knife, and then put on some fresh gravel ; the moisture 
breeds red mites, and is injurious to the bird. Do not keep the birds 
you intend to breed in the spring together during the winter. Do not 
keep single birds in a room where others are breeding, or males and 
females in mating season in the same room in separate cages, as it is 
likely to cause pairing fever. Feed canary and rape seed, but no hemp. 
For diarrhea put a rusty piece of iron in water dish, changing water 
not oftener than twice a week, and bread boiled in milk as for the asth- 
ma; boil it well in this case, so that when cold it will cut like cheese ; 
give freely with plenty of vegetables. 

Moulting is not a disease, yet during this period all birds are more 
or less sick, and some suffer severely. They require plenty of nourish- 
ing food. Worms, insects, and fruit to those which eat them ; and to 
those which live upon dry seeds, bread dipped in milk, fruit and vege- 
tables. — Airs. Mary Winget. 

Teeth — Many, while attentive to their teeth, do more injury than 
good by too much officiousness, daily applying some dentrifice tooth pow- 
der, often impure and injurious, and rubbing them so hard as not only to 
injure the enamel by excessive friction, but also to hurt the gums even 
more than by a toothpick. Tooth powders advertised in newspapers are 
to be suspected, as some of them are not free from corrosive ingredients. 
Charcoal, (which whitens the teeth very nicely) pumice stone, cuttle 
fish, and similar substances, are unfit for use in tooth powders, as all 
are to a certain extent insoluble in the mouth and are forced between 
the margin of the gums, forming a nucleus for a deposit. Below will 
be found a few good formulas for dentrifices : 

Creta preparata lb s. ii. j.; powdered borax Jb i.; powdered orris 
root lb i.; cardamom seeds z. i. j.; white sugar lb i.; flavor as you 
wish, either with wintgrgreen, rose or jasmine. If color is desired, 
one pound of rose pink and as much less o^ creta preparata is used. 

The following is a simple and cheap preparation, and is pretty good. 
Take of prepared chalk and fine old Windsor soap pulverized well, in 
proportion of about six parts of the former to one of the latter. Soap 
is a veiy beneficial ingredient of tooth powder. — H. W. Morey, D. D. S. 



378 THE BUCKKYE COOK BOOK. 

Cutting Teeth — The time the first teeth make their appearance 
varies, but the following dates approximate the time: Central incisors 
froip five to eight months after birth ; lateral incisors from seven to ten ; 
first molars from twelve to sixteen ; cuspids, or eye teeth from fourteen 
to twenty ; second molars from twenty to thirty-six. The first teeth 
should be protected from, decay as far as possible by careful cleaning 
daily ; if decay makes its appearance, the cavity should be promptly 
filled, and the tooth saved until displaced by the permanent teeth. 
About the sixth year the first molars of the permanent teeth make 
their appearance. They are generally supposed to belong to the first 
or milk teeth and are frequently lost for want of care. A little more 
attention given to the first teeth would save parents and children 
sleepless nights and suffering. — B. L. Taylor^ D. D. S., Minneapolis. 

Queen Bess Complexion Wash — Put in a vial one drachm of 
benzoin gum in powder, one drachm nutmeg oil, six drops of orange 
blossom tea, or apple blossoms put in half pint rainwater and boiled 
down to one teaspoonful and strained, one pint of sherry wine. 
Bathe the face morning and night ; will remove all flesh worms and 
freckles, and give a beautiful complexion. Or, put one ounce pow- 
dered gum of benzoin in pint whisky ; to use put enough in the water 
in wash bowl till it is milky. 

Cologne Water — One quart alcohol, three drachms oil lavender^^ 
one drachm oil rosemary, three drachms oil bergamot, three drachms 
essence lemon, three drops oil cinnamon. 

Clean Hair Brushes by pouring on the brush a teaspoon of am- 
monia, wash thoroughly in cold or tepid water, and expose to sun 
about two hours. The same process cleans tooth brushes. 

Boston Bernett Powder for the Face — Five cents worth of bay 
rum, five cents worth of magnesia snow flake, five cents worth of ber- 
gamot, five cents worth of oil of lemon ; mix in a pint bottle and fill 
up with rain water. Perfectly harmless and splendid. — Emma Collins. 

For Chapped Hands, Face or Lips. — Ten drops carbolic acid in 
one ounce glycerine ; apply freely at night. ' 

Indelible Ink. — Two drams lunar caustic, six ounces distilled or 
rain watyrjVd^^Qiye' and add two drams gum water, wet the linen 
with -t«S' reparation. 7 Dissolve one-half ounce prepared natron, in 
four ounoe^ water, add half ounce gum water (recipe below); after 
smoothing it with a warm iron, write with the ink, using a gold, quill, 
or a new steel pen. The writing must be exposed to a hot sun for 
twelve hours, do not wash for one week, then be particular to get out 
the stain which the. preparation will make. If this is followed in every 
particular there need never be a failure. Gum water for the above is 
composed of two drams gum arable to four ounces water. One tea- 
spoon makes two drams, two tablespaons make one ounce. If at any 
time the ink becomes too pale add a little of pure lunar caustic. 
Never write without using the preparation, as it will rot the cloth. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 379 

Magic Furniture Polish — Half pint alcohol, half ounce resin, 
half ounce gum shellac, a few drops aniline brown ; let stand over 
night and add three fourths pint raw linseed oil and half pint spirits 
turpentine ; shake well before using. Apply with cotton flannel, and 
rub dry with another cloth. — O. M. Scott. 

To Clean Silverware Easily — Save water in which potatoes 
have been boiled with a little salt, let it become sour, which it will do 
in a few days; heat and wash the articles with a woolen cloth, 
rinse in pure water, dry and polish with chamois leather. Never 
allow a particle of soap to touch silver or plated ware. 

To Make Rag Rugs — Cut rags and sew hit and miss, or fancy 
striped as you choose; use wooden needles, round, smooth and 
pointed at one end, of any convenient length. The knitting is done 
back and forth (like old fashioned suspenders), always taking off the 
first stitch. — Anna F. Hisey. 

To Destroy Weeds in Walks — Boil ten pounds stone lime, five 
gallons water and one pound flour of sulphur, let settle, pour off clear 
part and sprinkle freely upon the weedy walks. 

To Keep away Moths — Dust your furs with powdered alum, 
working it well in at the roots of the hair. Do not air woolen articles 
and furs in the summer sunshine. They should be put aside in the 
early spring and left untouched until October. 

To Preserve Books. — Bindings may be preserved from mildew by 
brushing them over with spirits of wine. A few drops of any perfumed 
oil will secure libraries from the consuming effects of mold and damp. 
Russia leather which is perfumed with the tar of the birch-tree, never 
molds or sustains injury from damp. The Romans used oil of cedar 
to preserve valuable manuscripts. Russia leather covered books, 
placed in a stationers' window will destroy flies and other insects. 

Black for Woolens — One ounce vitriol, one ounce extract log' 
wood to two pounds goods ; color in iron. Dissolve the extract over 
night in warm water. Pulverize the vitriol, put it into boiling water 
sufficient to cover the goods. Wash the goods well, rinse in warm 
water, then simmer a few minutes in vitriol water. Take out, wash 
thoroughly in clear water, then dip in boiling logwood dye till the 
color is good, stirring often and lifting up so it will get the air. Dry, 
then wash in suds and rinse. In renovating black alpaca that has be- 
come rusty, dissolve the logwood only, as nothing is needed to set 
the color. Wash the goods well in sud.s, rinse, dip in logwood dye, 
boil a few minutes, stirring and lifting to air. When dry wash again 
in suds and rinse in water in which a little gum arabic has been dis- 
solved and press smoothly on the wrong side while damp. Dyed in 
this way the color will not rub off more than from new goods, and 
looks a-; good as new. When extract of logwood is used, it is only 
needful to boil enough to dissolve before putting in the goods. 

Unfermentei) Wine for Communion — Weigh the grapes, pick 



380 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

from the stems, put in a porcelain kettle, add very little water and 
cook till stones and pulp separate ; press and strain through a thick 
cloth, return juice to kettle, add three pounds sugar to every ten 
pounds grapes ; heat to simmering, bottle hot and seal. This makes 
one gallon, and is good. 

To Press Satin— All satin goods should be pressed upon the right 
side. To press and clean black silk, shake out all dust, clean well 
with a flannel cloth, rubbing it up and down over the silk ; this takes , 
out all dust that may be left ; take some good lager beer and sponge 
the silk, both on the wrong and right side, sponging across the width 
of the silk, and not down the length, and with a moderately warm 
iron press what is intended for the wrong side. After sponging it is 
better to wait a few moments before pressing, as the irons will not be 
so apt to stick. 

To Take Out Mildew — Wet the cloth and rub on soap and chalk 
mixed together, and lay in the sun. Or, lay the cloth in buttermilk 
for a short time, take out, and place in the hot sun". Or, put lemon 
juice on and treat in the same way. 

A Good Cement for mending almost anything, may be made by 
mixing litharge and glycerine to the consistency of thick cream or 
fresh putty. This cement is useful for mending stone jars, stopping 
leaks in seams of tin pans or wash boilers, cracks and holes in iron 
kettles, fastening on lamp tops ; in all cases the article mended should 
not be used till the cement has hardened. This cement will resist the 
action of water, hot or cold, acids, and almost any degree of heat. 
Cement for attaching metal to glass. Mix two ounces of a thick so- 
lution of glue with one ounce of linseed oil varnish, and half an ounce 
of pure spirits of turpentine ; boil the whole together in a close vessel. 
After it has been applied to the glass and metal, clamp together for 
two or three days, till dr,y. Cement for china. To a thick solution 
of gum arable add enough plaster of paris to form a sticky paste ; 
apply -with a brush and stick edges together. To paste paper on tin. 
Make a thin paste of gum tragacanth and water, to which add a few 
drops of oil of vitriol. Mix a pound each of transparent glue and 
very strong vinegar, one quart alcohol, a small quantity of alum, and 
dissolve by means of a water bath. This is useful for- uniting horn, , 
pearl, shell and bone. — B. H. Gilbert. 

Lightning Cream for Clothes or Paint — Four ounces white 
Castile soap, four ounces ammonia, two ounces ether, two ounces al- 
cohol, one ounce glycerine ; cut the soap fine, dissolve in one quart 
soft water over the fire, and when dissolved add other ingredients. 

Cochineal Coloring — To a pound of wool take two gallons rain 
water, one ourice cream tartar, one and a half ounces cochineal, two 
ounces solution tiii, one-fourth ounce turmeric; first put the water in a 
copper kettle and let it boil, put in the cream tartar, in five minutes 
the cochineal, in five minutes solution tin, in five minutes turmeric, in 
five minutes yarn, boil an hour, slir all the time. Riiise in cold water. 



HIT AND MISS. 381 

HIT AND MISS. 



Baking Powder — Eight ounces flour, eight of soda, seven of tar- 
taric acid ; mix thoroughly by passing several times through a sieve. — 
Mrs. Trimble, Mi. Gilead. 

Baking Powder — Cream of tartar two parts, bicarbonate of soda 
one part, com starch one part ; mix. — Mrs. B. H. Gilbert, Minneapolis. 

Bread — First use good flour and Gillett's cream yeast, which is al- 
ways sure, and to be preferred to any other ; two tablespoons are suf- 
ficient for four large loaves of bread ; soak it in a little warm water, 
but do not scald it ; take two quarts of warm water (water that pota- 
toes have been boiled in, or milk ^nd water, is preferable), add the 
yeast and a little salt ; stir in sufficient flour to knead without sticking 
to the board ; knead well fifteen minutes, and set to rise in a warm 
place over night. In the morning knead well again, make into loaves 
and set to rise till full of holes the size of a pin point, then bake in a 
moderate oven from three-fourths to one hour. — Mrs. Frank M. 
Rockwell, Chicago. 

Soda Biscuit — Put one quart of flour, before sifting, into sieve 
with one teaspoon soda and two of cream tartar for three of baking 
powder), one of salt, and one tablespoon white sugar; mix all thor- 
oughly with the flour, run through the sieve, and then rub in one 
level tablespoon of lard or butter (or half and half), wet with a half 
pint sweet milk, roll,on board about an inch thick, cut with biscuit 
cutter, and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. ]f you have not 
milk, use a little more butter, and wet with water. Handle as little 
and make as rapidly as possible. — M. Parloa. 

The admirable recipes for cooking cranberries, on pages 153 and 191, 
are taken from the circular ofMessrs. C.G.&E. W.Crane, of Caldwell, 
N. J., accompanying each package of their celebrated "Star Brand" 
cranberries, which have attracted so much attention. See advertise- 
ment. Their fruit is remarkable for its fine quality, and the 
care with which it is put up, and needs only to be cooked in ac- 
cordance with the simple direffions given, to be fully appreciated. 
The peck boxes are particularly desirable for family use. Don't fail 
to try the first and principle recipe — that for cranberry sauce — with 
the next cranberries you cook. 

Japanese Paperware — Jennings Brothers, 352 Pearl St., New 
York City, have a fine display of their Paperware at the Centennial 
Exposition. The pails, pans, basins, bowls, foot-baths, cuspudores, 
pitchers, fruit dishes, etc., etc., are durable and cheap. While 
papier machie has been in use for ornament for centuries, it has not 
been applied successfully for household articles until this firm pro- 
duced it from their factory in Connecticut. No house furnishing 
establishment is complete without paperware. 

24 



382 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 

Maryland Biscuit — Three pounds flour, one-half , cup each 
butter and sweet lard, a little salt, water enough to mix ; work an 
hour, roll, cut into cakes and bake. — Mrs, G. W. Hensel. 

Lebanon Rusk — One cup mashed potatoes, one of sugar, one of 
home made yeast, three eggs ; mix together, when raised light add 
half cup butter or lard, and flour to make a soft dough, and when quite 
light mould into small cakes, and let them rise again before baking. 
If wanted for tea, set about nine o'clock A. M. — Mrs. J. S. Stahr. 

Sauer Kraut — Slice cabbage fine on a slaw cutter ; line the bottom 
and sides of an oaken barrel or keg with cabbage leaves, put in a . 
layer of the sliced cabbage about six inches in depth, sprinkle lightly 
with salt and pound with a wooden beetle until the cabbage is a conj- 
pact mass ; add another layer of calj^age, etc., repeating the operation, 
pounding well each layer, until the barrel is full to within six inches 
of the top ; cover with leaves, then a cloth, next a board cut to fit 
loosely on the inside of barrel, kept well down with a heavy weight. 
If the brine has not raised within two days add enough water, with 
just salt enough to taste, to cover the cabbage ; examine every two 
days, and add water as before, until brine raises and scum forms, 
when lift oif cloth carefully so that the scum may adhere, wash well 
in several cold waters, wring dry and replace, repeating this operation ' 
as the scum arises, at first every other day, and then once a week, until 
the acetous fermentation ceases, which will take from three to six 
weeks. Up to this time keep warm in the kitchen, then remove to a 
dry cool cellar, unless made early in the fall, when it may be at once 
set in the pantry or cellar. One pint of salt to a full barrel of cabbage 
is a good proportion ; some also sprinkle in whole black pepper. Or, 
to keep until summer : In April squeeze out of brine, and pack tightly 
with your hands in a stone jar, with the bottom lightly sprinkled with 
salt ; make brine enough to well cover the kraut in the proportion of a 
tablespoon salt to a quart of water; boil, skim, cool, and pour over; 
cover with cloth, then a plate, weight, and another cloth tied closely 
down ; keep in a cool place and it will be good in June. Never 
pound nor salt the cabbage too much, watch closely, keep clear from 
scum, for good sauer kraut. — Mrs. Mary Weaver, Darby Plains. 

To Keep Butter Fresh — Work until solid, make into rolls, take 
two gallons water ; one pint white sugar, one level tablespoon saltpetre ; 
make the brine strong enough with salt to bear an egg, boil and skim. 
Let cool, pour over butter and keep under brine with a weight. But- 
ter will keep for a year as sweet as when churned.— j5/rj. Mary Weaver.' 

Clover Vinegar — Put a large bowl of molasses in a crock, and 
pour over it nine bowls of boiling rain water ; let it stand until milk 
warm, and put in two quarts of clover blossoms, and two cups of 
bakers yeast. Let this stand two weeks, and then strain through a 
towel. I think it is better than cider vinegar. I never had anything 
even mould in it. — Mrs. McAlaster, Goshen, Ind. 



383 



THE 



FRUGAL housewife: 



OR 



Complete Woman Cook. 



WHEREIN 



The Art of dressing all Sorts of VIANDS, with 
Cleanliness, Decency, and Elegance, 

IS EXPi^AINBD IN 

Five Hundred approved RECEIPTS, in 



GBiVIES, 

SAUCES, 

EOASTING, 

BOILING, 

FRYING, 

BROILING, 

bTBWS. 

HASHES, 

SOUPS, 

FRICASEES, 

RAGOUTS, 



PASTRIES, 

PIES, 

TARTS, 

CAKES, 

PUDDINGS, 

SYLLABUBS, 

CREAMS, 

FLUMMERY, 

JELLIES, 

JAMS, AND 

CUSTARDS. 



TOGETHER WITH THE BEST METHODS OF 



POTTING. 

COLLARING, 

PRESERVING, 



And 



DRYING, 

CANDYING, 

PICKLING, 

AND MAKING DOMESTIC WINES. 
TO WHICH ARE ADDED, 

VARIOUS BILLS OF FARE, 

> proper Arrangement of Dinners, two Courses, for every 
Month in the Year, 

BY SUSANNAH CARTER, 

OF CLERKENWELL, LONDON. 

PHILADELPHIA: 
PRINTED BY JAMES CAREY, 83 N. SECOND STREET. 



1796. 



384 THE BUCKEYE COOK BOOK. 



TO ROAST VENISON. 

After the haunch of venison is spitted, take a piece of butter, and 
rub all over the fat, dust on a little flour, and sprinkle a little salt : 
theii take a sheet of writing paper, butter it well, and lay over the fat 
part ; put two sheets over that, and tie the paper on with small twine. 
Keep it well basted, and let there be a good soaking fire. If a large 
haunch, .it will take near three hours to do it. Five minutes before 
you send it to the table, take off the paper, dust it over with a little 
flour, and baste it with butter; let it go up with a good froth ; put no 
gravy in the dish, but send it in one boat, and currant jelly, melted, in 
another. 

A FOWL OR TURKEY ROASTED WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Roast a quarter of a hundred of chestnuts, and peel them ; save out 
eight or ten, the rest bruise in a mortar, with the liver of a fowl, a 
quarter of a pound of ham, well pounded, and sweet herbs and parsley, 
chopped fine ; season it with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; mix all 
these together, and put them into the belly of your fowl ; spit it, and 
tie the neck and vent close. For sauce, take the rest of the chestnuts, 
cut them in pieces, and put them into a strong gravy, with' a glass of 
white wine ; thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Pour the 
sauce in the dish, and garnish with orange and water cresses. 

TO JUG PIGEONS. 

Truss and season the pigeons with pepper and salt ; and having 
stuifed them with a mixture of their own livers, shred with beef 
suet, bread crumbs, parsley, marjoram, and two eggs, sew them up at 
both ends, and put them into the jug, the breast downwards, with half 
a pound of butter. Stop up the jug, so that no steam can get out ; 
then set them in a pot of water to stew. They will take two hours 
and more in doing, and they must boil all the time. When s'.ewed 
enough, take them out of the gravy, skim off the fat clean ; put a spoon- 
ful of cream, a little lemon peel, an anchovy shred, a few mushrooms, 
add a little white wiiie to the gravy, and having thickened it with 
butter and flour, and dished up the pigeons, pour the sauce over them. 
Garnish with sliced lemon. 

A STEAK PUDDING. 

Make a rich paste of a quartern of flour and two pounds of suet 
shred fine, mixed, up with cold water, seasoned with a little salt, and 
made stiff. The steaks may be either beef or mutton, well seasoned 
with pepper and salt. Roll the paste out half an inch thick. Lay the 
steaks upon it, and roll them up in it. Then tie it in a cloth, and put 
it into boiling water. A small pudding will be done enough in three 
hours. A large one takes five hours broiling. 

These pages, selected from an old cook book, now in the possession of Mrs. Dr. 
Thompson, Marysvitle, O. , are given as a curious reUc of the olden time. 



I PUR YEA'S I 

IN SIX POUND BOXES AND ONE POUND PAPEES. 



Try it. Gives a Beautiful White and Glossy 

Finish, besides renders Fabrics very Durable. 

No other Starch so easily used, or so 

Economical. 



USE IT ONC£ AND YOU -W^ILL USE NO OTHER. 



Bnryea's Improvefl Corn Starcli, 

Manufactured by a greatly improved process, from the Best 
Selected Indian Corn, and warranted perfectly pure. 

Pronounced by JURORS of GREAT INTERNATIONAL EXPO-' 
SITION, PARIS, 1867, to be the 

"PERFECTION OF QUALITY." 

A trial will insure its popularity everywhere. None genuine 
without " DURYEA'S " on every package. 

FOR SALE BY GROCERS GENERAL.L,Y. 

Be sure "DURYEA'S " is on every packag^e. 



Our New RKCIPK BOOK -will be sent post-paid 
to any one sending us their address. 

GENERAL DEPOT, 29, 31 & 33 PARK PLACE, NEW YORK. 

Wm. DURYEA, General Agent. 




The Delaware Wrought Iron Fence. 

CHEAP, BEAUTIFUL AND DURABLE 

Received First Premium at the Indiana and OMo State Fairs. 



The BEL A WASE FENCE COMPANY are now prepared to deliver and set 
up their fences in any part of the country at the following low prices : 

Prices for Fence Delivered and set up. --No Extras. 

No, 1. With Wrought Iron Posts, Braces and Stools, per lineal foot $175 

" 2, Same style, strength and appearance as No. I. but less weight — suitable 

for stone wall, i 50 



Fully ornamented $2 50 

250 



Partially Ornamented 2 20 

2 20 

1 SO 

2 25 
2 25 
2 25 



' 3 

" 4 

** 4/^ '* " 2 00 

" 5 *' *' 2 50 

" 6 " ^' 2 75 

'* 7 " " 3 00 

Parties taking their fence here, on cars, will be allowed 23 cents per foot off the. 
above rates. Any mechanic can set these fences as we furnish fiill directions for set- 
ting. We now make an entire Wrought Iron Fence, below as well as above grpuad, 
having discarded cast iron in our Posts, Braces, and Stools, making them entirely of 
wrought iron, thus rendering breakage impossible. 

We also furnish here, on cars, Single, Double, and Carriage Gates, together with 
their Posts. These Gates and Posts are suitable for any kind of wood fence or hedge. 
A Single Gate, straight top, and two Posts, everything complete, including our self- 
acting latch, $18.00; Rounded top Gate and Posts, $22.00 ; Carriage Gate and Posts, 
^33.00. The Gates and Posts to be all wrought iron. Carriage Gates fill a space of 10 
feet, Single Gates, 4 feet. 

The height of Fence No. i is 3 feet 8 inches ; No. 2, 2 feet 8 inches ; No. 3, 3 feet 8 
inches ; No. 4, 3 feet 7 inches ; No. 5, 3 feet 7 inches ; No. 6, 4 feet 2 inches ; No. 7, 
4 feet 2 inches . No. 4^, 2 feet 8 inches. In sending an order enclose diagram no- 
Ung distance from end of Fence to center of space for ist Gate, from there to center of 
space for 2d Gate (should there be one), and then to the other end or corner of Fence, 
Sides of premises measured by same rule. Note grade, if any, state to whichJPost the 
Gate should hang, and mark which is front on diagram. Grounds^hould be prepared 
by time of arrival of Fence, so as to occasion no delay in setting. 

03rca.©xs Solicitoci- 

DELAWARE FENCE CO., 



Tl\e Iride^pender^t. 



The I^argest of ail ReligioiiH Weeklies, The ablest iTriters 
of the country contribittc to its coluiniis. 



It Pays More for Contributed Articles than any other FOUR 
Religious "Weeklies. 



Its editorials are able and fearless. Its editorial notes are bright and readable. 
Its Sunday School columns are edited by the Rev. Gfeorge A. Peltz, one of the 
leading Sunday School workers of the country. Its Biblical research and 
Scientific columns are edited by the best scholars and college professors in this 
country and Europe. No other religious weekly has anything to compare with 
it in these departments. Its market reports are the best and latest and are 
largely copied in the country papers. Its departments of Finance, Eeiglious 
Intelligence, Literature, Personals, Farm and Garden, Children's, Arts, Music 
and Ministerial changes, are kept fully up to the standard, and way ahead of 
anything attempted by other papers. No family should be without it. 

Elegant and Valuable Prenniums are given Subscribers. 

Specimen Copies sent Free. Subscription Price, $3.00 per 
annum. Address, 

HENRY C. BOWEN, 

P. O. Box 2787 Publisher. 



WAY'S IMPROVED 



PATENT LEVER 



Clothes Wrinoek. 




If you were to be asked 
what in your judgment was 
the best way to secure peace, 
long life, and happiness in 
your family, by one who was 
a new beginner, what would 
you say, Mrs. Smith ? 

I would first ask, " have 
you a clothes wringer ?" if 
not, I would then be ready 
to give my advice. 

Taking care to let con- 
science rule, I would say, 
get as one of the first 
and most essential things) 
Way's Patent liCrer 
Clothes Wring^er, and 
then give my reaaous, which 
are many: 



Ist. It is the most durable and simple in its construction* 

3d. Its superiority of rolls. ^ 

3d. ]Vo thumb screws, cogs or springs to rust and get out 
of order. 

4th. Its rolls adjust themselves to any thickness of cloth, 
from a bed quilt to thiuest lace, merely by the pressure of 
the foot. 

Next, your tub cannot tip over as it is not fastened to the "wringer, but on one 
of the best commodities that can grace a laundry, a bench neat and handy, so 
that a child can readily work it. And in fact, time nor space would not allow 
the naming of all there is to be said in praise of this the -woman's friend. 

It has taken the premium and two prize medals at the Cincinnati Exposition, 
1873-'74, also Medal at the Indianapolis Exposition, 1874, and first premium at 
the State Fairs of Ohio. In fact it gives splendid satisfaction. Everybody 
likes it. It is the common sense wringer. 

TRY one: AJVI> YOU Wllil^ lilKE IT. 



'B2. in. i_.^^:isriDiej' 

Fourjofd Hflf-JSupporting 

CLOTHES HORSE or DRIER, 

An article of real merit and value to every housekeeper. 

PATEIVTEO jriVJE SO, 1874. 




It can be used for ont-door 
drying but is especially adapted 
for in-door use ou cloudy or 
rainy days, and the snowy sea- 
son of winter, when it is un- 
pleasant to btretch a line, and 
especially for putting clothes on 
after ironing, to thoroughly dry 
them before putting away. 

The cut illustrates the drier. 
On the left it is shown with two 
sections let down for use, one 
in the act of being closed, and 
one raised or closed.' On the 
right it Is shown closed for 
setting away after use, in which 
way it occupies very little space. 
It differs from most others in 
this, that you can use it with 
eirher one, two, three or the four 
sections at a time. Nos 1,3,5 
and 6 give 40 feet of drying 
surface, and by using cords 
through the perforations in the 
uprights, it gives 96 feet of 
drying surface. The capacity 
of Nos. 2 and 4 is one-tourth 
less Height, when folded, of 
Nos. 1 to 4, is 7 feet a inches; 
5 and G, 8 feet 2 inches. 



Liberal Discounfgf and 
Profitable Employment for 
Agents. 



REDCCED price; lilST. 

No. 1. Oiled Walnut or Cherry, IB Rails *^ 75 



12 
" 3. Plain Ash, 16 

" 4. " '■ 12 

" 5. Oiled Walnut or Cherry, 16 
" 6. Plain Ash, 16 

For further particulars, address. 

Sole Proprietor m 

N. B.— Agencies solicited everywhere. 
easy terms, and without risk of loss. 



3 SO 
3 25 

3 00 

4 25 
4 00 



EZRA F. LANDIS, 

d Mmvfacturer, LANCASTEB, PA. 
State or County Eights can be had on 



THE 

Christian Union. 



REV. HENRY WARD BEECHER. , 

REV. LYMAN ABBOTT, ^t-ditors. 



Sole medium of EUinwood's authorized verbatim reports each week ' 
of Mr. Beecher's 

SERMONS m PLYMOUTH CHUEOH. 

All his literary productions, including the characteristic " Star 
Papers," will be given. Comments on the 

INTERNATIONAL LESSONS 

by Mr. Abbott, every week, and articles on Biblical and Sunday School 
Topics by Mrs. H. B. Stowe, Rev. Howard Crosby, D. D., Rev. 
Edward Eggleston, D. D., and others. 

A great Serial Story this Fall by 

Rev. EDWARD EVERETT ilAEE, D. D., 

(Author of a " Man Without a Country," &c.) 

A comprehensive Family Religious Newspaper. Terms ^3.00 per 
year, postage prepaid. To Clergymen, ^2.50. To new subscribers on 
trial for three nionths, 75 cents. Cash Commissions to Agents. No 
Charge for Outfit. Send for particulars. 

HORATIO C. KING, Publislier, 

^7 Park Place, New York. 



CO 

O 








Tf 






And warranted to be satisfactory to any one, without Cutting or the use of Caustics. 
No blood ; no pain. Call and read the testimony from hundreds that have been cured. 

"W- IvC. lE^'^^IB^U^, Is/t. X3., In Charge of Cancer Department. 

We treat all other diseases with perfect success, and guarantee entire satisfaction to 
all. We invite all to call and sec and read for themselves the many testimonials we 
have, and we are daily in receipt of letters from all parts of the country, from per- 
sons under our treatment, telling us of the benefits they have received from using 

I>B. TOWNSEND-'S OXYGENATED AIR! 

We are weekly in receipt of hundreds of just such letters. If a person calls on us for 
treatment, and we say to them it will take three or four months to cure you, and they 
promise faithfully to follow our instructions, and then go home with our treatment and 
only follow our instructions on^ or two weeks, and because they are not decidedly im- 
proved, leave it off, it is no fault of ours or our treatment ; it is simply their own fault 
But to all that will follow our instructions we will guarantee perfect satisfaction. 
We thoroughly understand all the different schools of practice, the Old School, the 
Homceopathic bchool and the Eclectic School, and we give our patients such treat- 
ment as they need, regardless of any particular School of practice. We wish to say 
to all that OXYGENATED AIR will purify the blood in one-third the time that any 
other known remedy can possibly do. Dr. To\vn--end has connected with him in 
his business some of the most thorough and skillful physicians and surgeons in Amer- 
ica, as our cures will show. Address all letters to 

No. 122 High St., between Fenner and Stewart Streets, Providence, R, I. 

Patients at a distance can be just as successfully treated as those who consult Dr. 
Townsend personally, by writing full statement of their case Be sure to write 
plainly your name and Postoffice address, and send stamp for our illustrated paper. 
Direct all letters to my principal ofSce, 122 High St., Providence, R. I. 




i}^ Horse Power, upright style, combined Engine and Boiler ready for immedi 

ate use, with. Governor, Pump and Heater #175 

Ditto without Governor 160 

4 Horse Power, style as above, with Boiler and all complete with Governor, 

Pump and Heater 325 

Other sizes and styles will be furnished portable or stationary. In alj cases satis- 
faction guaranteed. For circular, terms, and further particulars address as above. 

The Excelsior Meat Chopper is superior to any of equal price now in use. Will 
mince, ready for market, 40 to 50 pounds of meat in 10 to 15 minutes. For hand or 
steam power, price S4.5 — guaranteed. Send for circular to 

B, MUSSER, Strasburg, LaneasterCo., Pa. 



RECIPE FOR GOOD TEMPER. 

Tliis celebrated recipe, which has been tested in nnmeroits honseholds, with 
the moBt satisfactory results is to be found in no other cook book ; but if 
strictly followed, is guaranteerl to produce a perfectly sweet temper, which will 
keep m any chmate unta the next " Centennial." It is this : 

BUY ONLY THE "ST. JOHN" SEWING MACHINE, 




'"wn)/ii,o,,,pjn„. 



It is SIMPLE ; LIGHT RUNNIJ^G; DURABLE. 

It runs either FORWARD or BACKWARD without change of stitch or feed. 

It has a (JLOS BD ^HUTTLE, without holes to thread through. 

It winds the BOBBIN, without running the machine. 

It does the greatest ran»e of work, of any machine made. 

It IS what you want. Bny the "St. John." 



■\7^. 3E3C. 3Eio:^i3xrso3xr, 

Dealer in 

Hardware, Glass, Doors and Sash, Iron, Nails, Whips, 

AIVD A GENERAL LIB OF AGRICl'lTURAL MPIEBEJITS, 
No. 3 Union Block, MABTSVILLE, OHIO. 



HITT, WHITE & MITCHELL, 

ONE PRICE AND CASH STORE, 
URBAISTA, OHIO, 

Offer superior inducements to Cash Buyers of 

Dry Goods, Carpets, 

AND HOUSEKEEPING GOODS. 



\ 

Our immense business gives great advantages in purchasing from Manufac- 
turers and Importers direct; and as we intend to still further increase our 
business, we shall this season, offer such attractions as will make it the interest 
of all to buy their goods of us, 

TO CLEAN' SILVER. 

Marion Harland says in "Common *^ense in the Household," page 529: — 
"For years I have used no other preparation for cleaning silver than the 

Indexical Silver Soap. 

Besides being clean and easy of apjllication, the Silver Soap will not wear away 
the metal as will whiting or chalk, or plate-powder, however firmly pulverized.". 



THE RICE FLOUR TOILET SOAP 

is splendid for summer use— mild, wholesome, and elegantly perfumed ; just 
what is wanted to overcome the natural oil which exudes from the body. 



OATMEAL TOILET SOAP, 

The only genuine Oatmeal Soap is b:nown world-wide as Robinson's Oatmbai 
GIjTOBRIne. It is tlie only perfect winter soap, and tiie cheapest fine toilet soap 
in the world. If you have never tried it, do so at once. Aslcfor EobiiiBon's 
Oatmeal Soap. 

The abojve Soaps *re made only by the 

ROfillVSOItr BKOS. & CO., BOSTON. 



PROSPECTUS 

OF THE 

Housekeeper's Companioii. 



The Housekeeper ')* Companion is a new monthly illustrated paper, ale- 
^utly printed, and devoted to the economical management of the Household 
in all ita branches. 

It will make an effort to discuss, from time to time, every Department of 
Housekeeping. 

New preparations of food and improved methods of cooking wiU receive par- 
ticular attention. 

New inventions in Household Implements will be noticed and illustrated as 
opportunity may offer. 

Recipes, contributed and selected, will form one of its prominent features. 

Another of its aims will be to popularize Housekeeping and to dispel the per- 
nicious notion, t-o widely entertained, that a knowledge of its important duties 
Is debasing 

Eoery issue will contain information worth the entire cost of a yearns subscrip- 
tion. 

Terms, 50 Cents a Vear, in Advance, Including Postage. 

fl^^ An iigent wanted in every town to solicit subscriptions, to whom a 
ib eral commission will be paid. 

M. T. RICHARDSON, Publisher, 

Union Building^ Brooklyn, JV. Y. 
P.O. Boxl65. 

"THE UNION COONTY JOURNAL," 



A/i:.A.I=L-2"S"V"XI_,I_,El, OHIO. 



Published Elvery Friday. 

C. M. KENTON, Editor & Proprietor. 

A Democratic Newsppr, Deyolefl to General aM Local News. 

t^-ALL KIMD3 OF JOB PRINTING NEATLY EXECUTED, -m 



Til! smiSDi nm cohti' 




No. I 



The most useful household Invention ot the nineteenth century. A Kitchen Safe, Flour Bin,_ 
Kitchen, Bread Table, Rolling Pin, Bread Pan, Spice Drawers are all combined and contained,in a 
handsome piece of furniture, made of the best seasoned black walnut or white wood oak grained. 

With this Safe a person need not move one step on making bread, cakes or pastry, for all the nec- 
essary machinery and ingredients are centered withm reach, 

:fi£/ICes J^rr the fj^c2i:o:r~^. 

All Walnut, paneled, moulded ends and front, capacity one barrel $22 00 

" " '■ " ■' " " half " i IP 00 

Walnut, paneled moulded front, paneled and stained end, capacity one barrel 20 00 

■* " ' - half •* 1800 

Oak grained and varnished, plain, capacity one barrel 17 °° 

" •* " " half '' IS 00 

" " carved and moulded, capacity one barrel 18 00 

'* " ' " " '■■ hah ' *■ 17 00 

BOXING AND CARTAGE TO DEPOT SO CENTS. 

Address, MISSOUEI VALLEY NOVELTY WORKS, 

SOZE FliOl'imSTORS AMD MAMlJ-'ACl'llltMItS, ST. JOSMl'B, MO. 



The Recipes for Making Coffee 

Pound in this book can be llUed to great advantage and entire satisfaction by 
using the 

NEPTUNE BRAND OF ROASTED COFFEE. 

It is au elfigaut coffee, perfectly roasted, nicely and conveniently packed in 
one ponnd packages for choice family use, for sale by grocers througlioat Ohio. 
Prepared only by 

JOHN H. CAUSE & CO., 

At the Lake Shore Mills, Cleveland, Ohio. 



For coolsing and flavoring purpoees no Spices are so good as the Neptune 
Spices, of double strength and flavor, prepared only by John H. Ganse & Co. , 
Lake Shore Coffee and Spice Mills, (.leveland, Ohio. 



WHITELEY, FASSLER & KELLY, 

Manufacturers of tbe Celebrated 




40,000 of these Machines Sold for the 
Harvest of 1876. 



Why is this success achieved by this machine ? Simply because it merits it. 
The Champion combines more utility, durability and genuine value than any 
other, this the intelligent practical farmer sees, as is evinced by the demand a,nd 
satistkction given in all cases. No farmer ever regretted tbe purchase of a 
Oiampioiim^hme. It has an entire wrought iron frame. 1 he pit connection 
is not eqnalled by any other machine. . ^ ^ t„^.„„„^^A n-^^iy. 

The Uhampion Self Baker is especially adapted to tangled Gram. 

For DeBcriptive Circular and Price, aSdress the Manufacturers, as above. 



CLEVELAND COFFEE AND SPICE MILLS. 
SMITH & Cp-RTISS, 

Wholesale Tealers in 

TEAS, COFFEES, SPICES 

]Instard,lCrGam Tartar, Baking FoTrder, &e. 

123 & 128 Superior Street, Cleveland. Ohio. 



S. & C. would call the attention of consumers of the above named£goods to 
the fact that they have been engaged in this line of business for nearly.twenty 
years, and wherever their goods are known need no recommendation. They 
are for sale by a large proportion of the leading Merchants in Northern and 
Central Ohio, and all goods bearingjtheir name are warranted to be of the best 
quality and to give perfect satisfaction. 

THE CONGREGATIONALIST 

And BOSTON RECORDER, 

Congregational Building, corner ofiBeacon and Somerset Streets, Loston. 

TJSltWS — in advanciff including postage, $3.00 

The Confiregationalisi itself we believe, never before presented^uch induce- 
ments for new subscribers as now. Among our writers are some of the best 
and most attractive pens that the denomination afiordo, and we spare neither 
pains nor expense to furnish our readers each week a paper, which in all its 
departments, shallj provide mental food that will be devoured with a hearty 
relish. Among its attractions are the following : 

Poetry; Editorials; Broadsides; Literary Keview; News Department; Notes 
from Abroad; Centennial Articles; Religious Intelligence; Children's Depart- 
ment; Summary for the Week; Articles by Contributors; Interior Corres- 
pondence; New York Correspondence; Washington Correspondence; Sabbath 
School Department; Agricultural Department; Christian Life and Labor; Other 
Denominations; Editorial Paragraphs; Puzzles for Children; Large Type 
Articles; Sketchy Articles; Our Exchanges; Mission Items; General Notes; 
Selections; Gleanings; In Briefs. 

One of the most popular features of the CongregatUmalist is its plan of giving 
up, from time to time, an entice page to one topic, such as the Sabbath, Revivals, 
the family, or Temperance. 

The news department is full and ample, embracing especially denominational 
intelligence from all sections of the country. Large space is given to the notices 
of new books and general^notes and news in literature. In its Washington 
correspondence, the Congreffaiionalisi claims to be unsurpassed by any religious 
journal in the country. While maintaining with rigor a sound doctrine and the 
Congregational church polity, it is our careful and constant endeavor to make 
The Congregationalist a paper that shall be attractive and readable, in distinc- 
tion from one that may be called dry and heavy; and its variety and scope are 
such as to present more or less matter of interest to all classes and ages, in 
every issue. 

W' li. CtHEENE & CO., Pnblishers, 

1 Somerset Street, Boston. 



MRS. A. H. SELLS, 

No. 17 East State Street, 
PLATT BUILDING, COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

DEALER IN 

Fine Millinery, 

FANCY GOODS, NOTIONS, &c., &c. 

All kinds of JEWELRY and FA NCr ARTICLES, including Corsets, 
Bustles, Neck Ties, &'c. 



WE BA7E JUST ADDED CLOAE kSTl DBESS UAKIKa TO QUE BUSIITESS. 



We have for sale the Celebrated Graver & Baker Sewing Machine. 

The best Sewing Machine made. Sold on easy Monthly or Weekly 
Installments. A full Stock of Needles and Attachments. 

FEEEMAN8, STALEY & MORTON, 

Importers and Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

DRY GOODS, 



Special Inducements offered in Every Department. 



GOODS SOLD AT A SMALL ADVANCE, ONE PRICE ONLY 
AND FOR CASH, AT THE 

Great South End Dry Goods Store, 

NOS. 228, 230 & 232 SOUTH HIGH STREET, 
COLUMBUS, OHIO. 



USE NONE BUT THE BEST. 

B/LTIMORE MMkf REFINERY 

PURE 

REFINED SUGAR 



To make the "Centennial Buckeye Cook Book" recipes a success, use Pure 
Sugars, manufactured by 

WOODS, WEEKS & CO., 

:Ba,ltixiQ.oi-©, _ _ _ DVCa-Dryl^nca.. 

CHICAGO AGENCY: 

Woods, Weeks & Co., No. 2 Wabash 'Avenue. 

C.G&E. W CRANKS 

FmST PREMIUM "STAR BRAND" 

CRANBERRIES, 



Grown on their plantations in Ocean Co., N. J., have received the Highest 
A-fv^ards of the Vienna, S^xposition, Anaerican Institute, and 

N. J, State Ag^ricultural Society, as well as the most flattering enco- 
niams of the press—and they have given perfect satisfaction to the hundreds of 
families who have used them. All fruit well packed in the branded Standard 
Peck, Bushel and Barrel Packages of the N. J. Cranberry Growers' Association, 
and each package contains the valuable dicections for cooking, originally pre- 
pared by the Foreign Trade Committee of the N. J. C. G. A , which we have 
carefully revised for this use. A number of these receipes will be fowid mi 
pcig& 153- Extra fruit in PECK BOXES a specially. 

FEEMCH & 00. 180 Eeads Street, W. T. ? .„,,.„ 

EUMTAH & BALDWIN, 10 Oemmerce St., Nevarh, N. J. $ ^Sents. 

C. G. & E. W. CRANE, Caldwell, Essex Co., N. J. 



BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. BUY ONLY THE CREAM. 
TES-riMONIAl—S- 

Read what Prominent Wholesale Grocers and Public Men say about 

Gillet's Cream Yeast 

We, the undersigned, of Chicago, hereby testify that we are using 
"GILLET'S CREAM DRY HOP YEAST," and consider it better 
than any kind of yeast we have ever used. We cheerfully recom- 
mend it to all lovers of GOOD BREAD. 

M. Hhath Mayor of Chicago. 

A. B. Pullman Pullman Palace Car Co. 

W.M. T Allen Allen, Keith & Co. 

H. W. Boies Boies, Fay & Conkey. 

G. S. Bacon Willard, Bacon & Co. 

Jerome B. Beardsley .Jas. Forsyth & Co. 

B. Steele Steele, Wedeles & Co. 

Frank M. Rockwell Secy Y^ M. C. A. 

Matt J Merritt Gould, Briggs & Co. 

W. M. HoYT W. M. Hoyt & Co. 

E. R. Mead McKindley, Gilchrist & Co, 

loHN S. Gould Gould, Fisher & Wells. 

"T. Delehant W.J. Quan& Co. 

W. G. Mead J. S. & W. G. Mead & Co. 

O. S. A. Sprague Sprague, Warner & Co. 

George Ross Geo. Ross & Co. 

Chas. W. Merriam Harmon, Merriara & Co. 

Chas. Cloves Knowles, Cloyes & Co. 

PROF. WM. B. TARR, 

CHEMICAL DTEE, 

has fitted up 
STEAM MACHINERY AND APPLIANCES 

To enable him to do first-class work. Prof. Tarr will have exclusive control of all 
fine work, such as I.adies Dresses and New Goods requiring the color changed. We 
color and clean all Silks, Woolens and Mixed Goods. Mohairs, and such hard stufls, 
do not color or clean well by the old process, consequently they are cleaned by the 
new French dry process and a good finish is guaranteed. 

RIBBONS, NECK TIES, KID GLOVES, &c., 

Artistically and successfully cleaned and dyed. The Professor having spent three 
years in China, learned the process of cleaning and restoring gentlemen's clothing 
without dipping the garment, thereby securing against any pos-sible chunce of shrink- 
age : and with this assurance gentlemen can, with full confidence, bring m their Fine 
Coats, Pants and Vests and have them renovated in first-class style. 

flS-Ladies are respectfully invited to call and examine our work before sending 
elsewhere. 

No. 16 South Center St., Springfield. Ohio. 



"VsT. Z. EyA-IsTS, 

[Successor to Thos. Evans, Jr.] 

DEALER IN 

House Furnishing Goods, 

General Hardware, Stoves and Tinware, 
MARBLEIZED IRON MANTLES AND GRATES, 

Nails, Glass, Putty, Paints, &c., &c.. 

Fire Brick and Clay, Wooden and Willow Ware, 
Refrigerators and Ice Chests. 

AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, 

OUOTHEiS ■WIH.i;]SrC3-EE=lS. 

SANDUSKY ST., DELAWARE, OHIO. 

Halm, Bello^v^s & Butler, 

MAHCPACTUKERS OP 

FURNITURE, 

BED ROOM SUITS, 

PARLOR SUITS, 

DINING ROOM SUITS. 

Easy and Odd Chairs, Lounges, Hair, Moss, Fibre 
and Husk 

MATTRESSES, SPRING BEDS, 

And a Full Line of 

CANE AND WOOD SEAT CHAIRS AND 

ROCKERS. 
Sales Rooms, 194 and 196 South High St, Columbus, Ohio. 



NO. 



" BUCHAN'S NO. u 



Carbolic Soap. 

From all parts of the country come daily endorsements of Buchan's Carbolic 
Soaps and Compounds. Their wonderful qualities as Curatives, Preventives and Dis- 
infectants are universally acknowledged. The di-infecting properties of No. ii Soap, 
especially in freeing your houses from Ants, Roaches, Bugs and other Vermin, are 
truly marvelous. One application of this soap will rid a dog of fleas. For sale by all 
Druggists. See that the name BuoHAN appears on every label. 

o".A.s. o. iDXJKriixr, 



DBALEB IN 



Staple & Fancy Dry Goods, 

SPECIALTIES IN 

White Goods, Embroideries, Laces, Kid Gloves and Silks 
NO. 6 NEIL HOUSE BLOCK, COLUMBUS, 0. 




This cut represents a 
POCKET COOK STOVE 
jin operation ; the size of it 
is fonr inches square and 
one and a half high. Sent 
permail, f 1.25. For trav- 
elers, tourists, camp meet- 
ings, family use and the 
nursery, it will be found 
useful ; just the thing to 
make toast, as there is no 
smell or smoke from the 
flame. In the summer 
time it takes the place of 
the cook stove, as you can 
broil oysters, ham, steaks, 



chops,' etc., in a very short time. Manufactured only by the Houchin Manufac- 
turing Co., Morrisania Station, New York City. 

f^HOTOGRAPHEg 

228 & 232 South High St., Columbus 0. ^^ 



Especial attention is paid; to^ Copying and Enlarging_;01d Pictijres, 

and if desired, finished in Crayon, India Ink, Pastel 

or Water Color. 



J". Ij-A-KTIDOIsr, 

SEALSB IK 

DRY GOODS, MILLINERY AND FANCY GOODS, CARPETS, 

ClothSi Boots and Shoes, Groceries and Crockery. 

:bxt-2"s .A-HsriD smx^s i^-if^oidxjoe!. 

JOHN H. SHEARER & SON, 

Sa?E:.A.lv/t IRIFLIISrTIBIFLS. 

All kinds of job work in the best style. Orders by mail promptly attended to. 
' Ladies' visiting cards a specialty. Sent to any address on receipt of price— 76 
cents per pack of fifty ; single dozen 30 cents. The finest qaality of card stock 
always used. Address J. H. SHEARER & SON, Marysville, Ohio. 

You will find at 

MRS- o_ s_ ogde:n='s^ 

A good assortment of 

JVLllllner37- cfc l^anc-y- C3r00ca.s. 

Don't forget the place. No. 28 Sonth Main Street, a few doors south of the 
Farmers' Bank, Marysville, Ohio. 

F. O. PIEBSON, 
Dealer in 

Notions, Ladies' and Gents' Furnishing Goods, Valises &c.. 

At prices to suit the times. Hosiery a specialty. 
SOUTH MAIN STREET, - - MARYSVILLE, OHIO. 

THE "COOK'S DELlGHT"'BAKiNG POWDER ! 

It is warranted to make liajit. sweet, and uutrieious food. When good flour 
is used it has no equal for the immediate production of 

Slscuitf Corn Breadf liolls, Ginger Sreadf all kinds of CahCf JF^r-uitS/ 
JJumplingSf die.f t&c, 

H. BBANDRIFF, Prop'r. Fiqu a, 0. 

Dealer in 

Strictly Fine Groceries, Pure Spices, &c. 

LARGEST STOCK-LOWEST PRICES. 
IS Eaat Center Stree et, IHaryrirille, Ohio. 

W. E. BAXTER, 

Dealer in 

GOLD m SILVER WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, SOLID SILVER AND PLATED WARE, 

Spectacles, Pocket and Table Cutlery, Pocket Books, Ladies' Porrmonnaies, 

Chandliers, Lamps, Fancy Goods, etc. Watches, Clocks and Jewelry 

Repaired and Warranted, and Engraving Neatly Done. 

So 5 Union Slock, opposite Coit/rt Ho%i8€, Marysville, Ohio. 

JEW^ELER m ENOR-A^VER, 

KTo. 17 "West Center Street, 

MARYSVILLE, OHIO. 



DEAI.BB8 IN 

Furniture, Chairs, Bedsteads. Upholstery, looking Glasses^ 

C3-IX.T I«CO"trijI3I3SrC3-S, SbC 
No. 11 Centre Street, mARrSVJliIiE, OHIO. 

CoffluB on hand and Made to Order, Personal AttendaDce with a Hearse on Foueral Occasion. 



INT. J5. XjiC^JNTG^y 

PAYS THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE FOR 

Butter, Eggs, Poultry, in Season, 

DRIED FKUITS, &o. 
South Main Street, MARTSVXJOZE, OHIO, 

o. ]yr. sooTT- 

DBALKB IN 

Seizing JXIachine Needles and Se^vine Ulacfaine AttachmentSy. 

Needles sent, post paid, to any addresB, at the following prices: 
Singer 45 cts. per doz. Grover & Baker, straight go cts. per doz. 



Howe 50 

Florence 60 

Domestic 50 ' 

Grover & Baker (curved) 50 
Victor 50 



Wheeler & Wilson 50 

WiUson so " " " 

St. John 50 * 

Remington 50 " " " 

Needles warranted genuine. 
0. U. SCOTT, 15 South Main St., 2IAH7SVILLE, OSIO. 



Dealer in 

DRUGS, MEDICINES & CHEMICALS, 

strictly Pare Ground Spicee, Concentrated Flavoring Extracts, Fine 

Perfames, Fancy Goods, &c. 

^a:A.If2-SVIIiI.E!, OHIO. 



H. \ir. MOREY, D. D. S., 

Operative Dentistry a Specialty,. 

OFFICE IN UNION BLOCK, MARTSVlllE, OHIO, 



J", -w. consria,^^isr's 

COMPOUND STRirP OF 

BLACKBERRY and PEPPEKMINT 

Hal never been koowo to fall in cariDg the most protracted and ngravated cases of Dyaentery,. 
Dlarrheea, Flax, Cholera Morbas, Colera Infantani, etc. In It we have nature'o two great remedie* 
combined in a mild and pleasant form, making it one of the best family medicines that has yet been 
placed fcefore the public. Try It. For sale by all Drnggiflts. Prepared only by 

UcCLOUD & BBO., Drug^ts, UAE7S7ILLS, OHIO. 

Groceries, Vegetables and Wooden Ware 

Can be bought for money everywhere. 

But lowest for cash and best, you will see 

At miahncke, nVnchlenbrnch Sc Companr, 

18 South Main Street, Marysville, Ohio. 



Manufacturer of and Dealer in 

Harness, Saddles, Collars, Whips,' Horse Blankets, Robes, &o.. &o. 

Also, Proprietor of UAHAPPEY'S PATENT COLUE PABTENIHa, 
m. 20 Scmth Main Street, Marysville. Ohio. 



ROBINSON & ROBINSON, 

Factory, Store, and Marysville Woolen Mills, 

Corner of North and Military Streets, 
MARYSVILLE, - OHIO. 



S. MeCAMPBELL & SON, 
Manufacturers and Dealers in 

IBOOTS, SHOES, LEATHER AND FINDINGS, 

Gent's Fine Lined and Pegged Boots and Shoes a Specialty. Repairing 

Neatly Done. 

JTo. 13 Sortn Main Street, UABTSVILItXl, OHIO. 



MARYSVILLE 

Butter Tub and Spoke Company,, 

Manufacturers of 

White Ash and Oak Butteb Tubs, Fork and Beef Kits. 



PAIL. 



NO 3. 



Nsa 



rx.=-« 



NSI. 




Our Pails and Tubs are thoroughly varnished, thus rendering them far 

more durable. 

Dealers in 

PINE i HARD WOOD LUMBER 
Flour Barrel Heading, Moulding, &c. 

Highest Cash Price Paid for I^ogs, and Sawing done 
on Short Notice. 

MARYSVILLE, OHIO. 



Missing Page 



