sha pepei # ef 


“aie 2 
ermeaieis 


nai olafaie 
siersia(aleieielefel 


avevererey Ter 
feinie sees 


Ses” 


LL, 


<< 


rere 


3 eiaielol eh 
jopatcredetarspaiererey 
she 


o\oistebei= 


rer je(etote 
rere 
peretaiaieferste 


Spee Gajetate.et 
fotetsinteretaleinia(t: 


enn 
Spe sietsist 


oi Shee 
(oe 


53° University Library 
TX 811.853 ss 


of the food valu 


| 
‘aii NM T 


Cornell University 


Library 


The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 


There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 


http://www. archive.org/details/cu31924001362460 


FRUIT RECIPES 


BLOSSOMS AND IMMATURE FRUIT OF THE CERIMAN 
OR “FAISE BREAD FRUIT”’’ (Monstera delicvosa) 


Fruit Recipes 


A Manual of the Food Values 
of Fruits and Nine Hundred 
Different Ways of Using Them 


By 
RILEY M. FLETCHER ee 
\\ 


ILLUSTRATED FROM 
PHOTOGRAPHS 


oy 
ae 


“HOTEL ADMINIS 


> 1 JUL 1 
.. LIBRARY 
NEW YORK 
Doubleday, Page & Company 
1907 


we 


Copyright, 1907, by 
Doubleday, Page & Company 
Published, March, 1907 


All rights reserved, 
including that of translation into foreign languages, 
including the Scandinavian 


eee 


DEDICATED 


TO 


ALL MEN AND ALL WOMEN 


INTERESTED IN FRUITS: AS SCIENTISTS—WHETHER IN THE LABORATORY, THE 
KITCHEN, OR THE GARDEN; AS ARTISTS BY PROFESSION OR THOSE WHO 
UNPROFESSIONALLY HAVE ARTISTIC APPRECIATION OF THIS TYPE 
OF EARTH'S BEAUTY; AND TO THOSE WHO CLAIM SPECIAL 
TRAINING IN NEITHER SCIENCE NOR ART BUT 
SIMPLY AND THOROUGHLY ENJOY GOOD, 

WHOLESOME COOKERY. 


RILEY M. FLETCHER BERRY, 


The Orchard of Palms, 
Orlando, Florida. 


PREFACE 


DanizEL had good reason for his famous and witty after- 
dinner speech when he remarked to the lions, ‘‘After you, 
gentlemen, after you!’’ On the same principle prefaces 
are often postponed. But I hope that you will read this 
one before dining, that you may understand why such an 
anomaly as both a discussion of the food values of fruits 
and formulas for the practical preparation of fruit dishes 
should be offered men as well as women. 

Whatever mental attitude one may hold in relation to 
foods, whether one makes meat the chief article of diet or ex- 
cludes it, or follows a middle course, one uses fruit as one 
does water: possibly as a luxury, possibly only because 
other people use it, but always to some degree (unless one 
be an Esquimau beyond even the reach of courageous 
Arctic berries), and always, just as surely, in lesser degree 
and with less appreciation of its real value than one should 
use it. 

Difference of age, of climate, of occupation, or consti- 
tution make variation of kind and quantity of foods a 
necessity, but, generally speaking—leaving out discussion 
of the three types of necessary food elements: protein, or 
nitrogen, the carbohydrates (including sugar and starches), 
and fat—all this aside, it is agreed that human beings as 
a class need more of the potash salts than they ordinarily 
realise or take into their systems. The lack of proper pro- 
portion of these salts lays the foundation for many troubles, 
in simple and complicated form, which, however, may be 
avoided by the substitution or inclusion of more fruit 

Vil 


viii FRUIT RECIPES 


foods, for vegetables and fruits contain these necessary 
salts in abundance. (See Note.) 

Fruit juices furnish the most delightful form of pure 
water, which is too apt to be considered, in the words of : 
the Southern colonel, ‘‘good fuh pupposes of navigation, 
but a mighty po’ drink.” The fruit form of acids is re- 
freshing; it speedily furnishes energy to the muscular 
system—the sugar being readily assimilated—and in 
general or directly (as with the tropical papaw and pine- 
apple) assists digestion. Each fruit has a special and 
some of the general values; some of them meant only as 
accessories to other foods, as a rule stimulants and purifiers, 
containing chiefly the carbohydrates, and must be bal- 
anced by fats, nitrogen, or protein, and foods containing 
more cellulose. Some fruits require very little ‘‘balancing,” 
being substantial and nearly perfect in themselves, as figs, 
prunes, and the cocoanut, which last, when fresh, should be 
ranked rather with fruits than nuts. The banana is a 
substantial food, very rich in carbohydrates and ‘‘body”; 
so also the persimmon. Grapes are nearly perfect from 
a general point of view and the apple is unique in rank. 

Acid fruits are not always to be recommended in com- 
bination with starchy foods, and too much acid may be used, 
but all people are not constituted alike: uncooked fruits 
may or may not agree with one (though in general fruits 
are best and more direct in effect uncooked and, whether 
fresh or cooked, should be eaten with less sugar than is 
the usual habit) and special. fruits or combinations may 
be found undesirable. Some human beings need food 
oftener than others or in greater quantity. Some need 
to be reduced in flesh or the reverse. No ‘hard and 
fast rules can be laid down; each one should realise the 
value of fruits as a whole and of fruits individually and 
should as thoroughly know his own needs. 


PREFACE ix 


Facts concerning the values of fruits have been widely 
scattered, hidden behind masses of figures or buried in 
scientific works. Figures and scientific terms are nec- 
essary in their places, but those included here are only as 
matters of reference. To be vitally interested is the first 
requisite for learning “more and more.’’ Everyone has 
not the gift for remembering figures and names, and to be 
so burdened is often to stop one at the outset or detract 
seriously from interest. 

Many foundation recipes are included and explanations, 
because this collection is meant quite as much for men who 
are ‘‘batching it’? (perhaps having their first experiences 
in cooking where strange fruits have to be dealt with) as 
for women who rightly believe variety to be the spice of 
life; and I have given as far as possible just what I myself 
would many times have valued could someone have saved 
my having to hunt through a great many volumes for all 
I wished to know concerning the preparation of some 
particular fruit, or for some general formula. which each 
book usually takes for granted one already knows in exact 
proportion. 

I have included also a few old-time recipes because of 
their great interest, from their age, to this generation, or 
the superior results to be obtained from their use. The 
housekeeping of earlier centuries seems elaborate and heavy 
by contrast with the lighter, modern methods, but life as 
a whole was simpler then than now and in attempting to 
improve upon the old-fashioned ways we have dropped a 
little too much, for there were certain quaint touches of 
housewifely care: which exercised untold charm in many 
directions. Were the old-time still-rooms in vogue to-day, 
with their fragrant atmosphere of aromatic herbs, fruit- 
cordials, brandies, and wines, patent medicines would find 
few victims; the murderously adulterated liquors of 


x FRUIT. RECIPES 


foreign and domestic markets so generally used as mild 
tonics as well as stimulants, would not be countenanced or 
would be rated at their real standing and money value 
from strict analysis. Fruits have medicinal or tonic value 
which in cordials ‘‘go to exactly the right spot’; the old 
fruit brandies were used for flavouring, and were far supe- 
rior to the average, adulterated or cheap, weak stuffs we 
have to buy to-day and which as a matter of course in- 
clude alcohol. 

As authorities I have consulted Haig’s ‘‘ Diet and Foods”; 
Burnett’s ‘‘Foods and Dietaries’’; Holbraoks’s ‘‘Faod 
and Work”; Williams’s ‘‘Chemistry of Cookery’”’; Fownes’s 
‘Manual of Chemistry”; Remingtan’s ‘‘ Practice of Phar- 
macy”; the Dispensatory of the U. S. (Woad and Bache), 
the encyclopedias, American, Britannica, and Chambers’s; 
Gray’s Botany; Helen Harcourt’s ‘Florida Fruits and 
How to Raise Them”; Country Lije in America, Table 
Talk, What io Eat, Harper’s Bazar, The Delineator, the 
New England and all other of the leading periodicals per- 
taining to the table and to health, and dazens of ‘‘cook 
books.” Most of my recipes, however, are original or long 
since adopted and adapted by family habit or traditions of 
eooking of friends—Scotch, English, German, and Amer- 
ican (ta whom I am much indebted), but endless consul- 
tation and comparison for years has resulted in agreeing 
with Solomon that, with national or individual exceptions, 
change of name, or proportion of ingredient, ‘‘there is no 
new thing under the sun.” 

I wish also to express my thanks to Dr. Wiley, chief 
chemist of the Agricultural Department, and to William 
A. Taylor, H. E. Van Deman, G. B. Brackett, H. Harold 
Hume, P. H. Rolfs, H. J. Webber, W. T. Swingle, R. B. 
Handy, W. H. Evans, M. E. Jaffa, W. O. Atwater, Fred 
V. Colville, and Deborah G, Passmore of this greatest of the 


PREFACE xi 


government departments as well as to the Department in 
general. Such work, scientific, practical, and artistic, 
cannot be overestimated, whether one is little or much 
dependent upon it; for the results of these investigations 
reach people who might never be reached in any other 
way and yet influence those who have every other oppor- 
tunity and scientific authority at hand, helping to sim- 
plify everyday affairs; and we must—men and women— 
live with eyes open to the practical power of the products 
of the earth if we expect to live the sweetest, the simplest, 
and so, the fullest lives. 
R. M. FLeTcHER BERRY. 


Note: Bicarbonate of potash in proportion of ‘about 
an eggspoonful to a pound of ripe fruit, rather more in the 
case of unripe fruits’”—(Burnett) is now given patients of 
gouty and other types of cases with fruit—even with 
lemons and tartest gooseberries—that they may have 
fruit-diet, although until very recently it was supposed they 
must be denied fruit. 

R. M. F. B. 


CHAPTER 


CONTENTS 


Weights and Measures. ‘ : . xix 
Introductory Recipes eg ; i: 8 


The Apple . F : 5 j . - 23 
The Pear . : ; ‘ ‘ : » 49 


The Quince . ; : ‘ A - 57 
The Medlar and the ae : ‘ - 63 
The Peach and Apricot . : ‘ . 66 
The Cherry . ‘ : F ‘ ‘ . 81 
The Plum . : F ; : Z - 93 
The Northern Papaw ‘ . : . 106 
The Wild Northern Persimmon . : . 107 
The Grape . ‘ ; ‘ : Z - 108 
The Olive . : ; ‘ 3 é - 122 
Melons : ; ; : : é - 125 
A Cluster of Berries . ‘ : : - 136 
The Lemon . . : . 185 


The ‘“ Wild,” ‘‘ Sour,”’ or Seville oe . 201 
The Orange : : : é a - 211 
The Citron, Bergamot, Limeberry, 


Kumquat, and Trifoliata . , + 223 
The Pomelo (or ‘Grape Fruit’’), aa 
Tangelo, and Citrange . . 229 


xiii 


xiv 


CHAPTER 


XIX. 
XX. 
XXiI. 
XXII. 
XXITI. 
XXIV. 
XXV. 


XXVI. 
XXVIII. 
XXVIII. 
XXIX. 
XXX. 
XXXII. 


XXXII. 


CONTENTS—Continued 3 


PAGE 


The Pineapple. p . . . » 238. 
The Banana a is . A 5 . 250 
The Fig. : . . ‘ . 260 
The Date—The Cocoanut . : ; . 271 
The Japanese Persimmon . . ‘ . 283 
The Guava . . . , : . 287 


Rose and Malay Apples, Java Plum, Suri- 
nam and Barbadoes ‘ Cherries,’’ and 


Marmalade Box ‘ ‘i . » 295 
The Pomegranate . : . : . 2907 
The Avocado, ‘‘ Aguacate,” or ‘“ wee 

Pear”’ . ‘ , 5 - 299 


The Custard Apple, The Cherimoya, Sweet 
‘and Sour Sop, and Pond Apple . 301 


The Mangosteen—The Mammee Apple. 303 


Sapodilla, Mammee Sapota, White Sapota, 
Star Apple, Cocoa Plum and Egg 
Fruit (or ‘Ti-es’’) . : ‘ - 305 


Six of the More Familiar Tropical and 
Semi-Tropical Fruits : ‘ - 3°7 


Some of the Less Known Fruits : - 311 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


Blossoms and Immature Fruit of the Ceriman or 


“False Bread Fruit’”’ : ; ; Frontispiece 

(Courtesy of J. F. Allen, Orlando, Fla.) FACING PAGE 

Blossoms of the Loquat Tree P 66 
(Permission of G. L. Taber, Glen St. Mary, Fla.) 

Loquat Tree . ; : 3 : . 66 
(R. M. F. Berry, Orlando, Fla) 

Chinese or Peen-to Peaches Grown in Florida . . 67 
(J. C. E. Ensminger, Sanford, Fla.) 

Spanish Cherries . : F : ‘ ‘ - 67 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 

Prune s ‘ 6 ‘ 118 
(Permission of U.S. Bepiciunne of Agriculture) 

Loquat or Japan “Plum” 118 
(T. P. Robinson, Orlando, Fla.) 

Japan Persimmon : ‘ : 118 
(Permission of U. S. Department of Apis 

Sea or Shore Grapes. , ; : : . 11g 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 

Sea or Shore Grape Tree : j ‘ i 11g 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 

Largest Grapevine in the World . : ‘ 122 
(Courtesy of J. R. Peters [the owner), Carpenteria, Cal.) 

Picking Olives. : : : . 123 
(Graham Photo. Co., Los Ansaiis: Cal. 

California Olives . F ‘i : é . 123 
(Graham Photo. Co., Los Angeles, Cal) 

Blossom of the Common Elder : : : . 176 
(T. P. Robinson, Orlando, Fla.) k 


xV 


xvi ILLUSTRATIONS 


FACING PAGE 


Perfection Currant ‘ 4 ‘ é 2 ? 
(Permission of U. S. Department of Agriculture) 


The Common “High Huckleberry” of the South . 
(T. P. Robinson, Orlando, Fla.) 


The French (black) Mulberry. ‘ ; : : 
(T. P. Robinson, Orlando, Fla.) 


California Lemons with Blossoms . : : : 
(C. C. Pierce Company, Cal.) 


Spanish Lime or Ginep . ‘ F : : : 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 


The Seville Orange with Blossoms . ; : F 
(R. M. F. Berry, Orlando, Fla.) 


“Old Baldy” and Navel Oranges from the San 
Gabriel Valley, California . ‘ é : 
(“Old Baldy” by pete of E. T. Randall, rane Beach, Cal.) 
(Navel Oranges by C. C. Allen, St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Blossoms of the Sweet Orange : F , 
(C. C. Allen, St. Petersburg, Fla.) 


Morton Citrange . ‘ ; ‘ 
(Courtesy of H. J. Webber, U.S. Depistnonh of Agriculture) 

Rusk Citrange : ‘ 
(Permission of U.S. ee of Auta 

Willits Citrange . ; ‘ : : 


(Permission of U.S. Depavinent of Marinas) 


Trifoliate Orange . : : ss : 
(Permission of U. S. Department of Asreuaey 


The Kumquat ‘ : ‘ r i 
(T. P. Robinson, Orlando, Fla) 


Trimble Tangerine : 3 ‘ : 
(Permission of U. S. Department of Agriculture) 


Grape-Fruit Tree . : ; ‘ ; ‘ 
(C. C. Allen, St. Petersburg, Fla.) 


The Pomelo or ‘Grape-Fruit” 
(J. C. E. Ensminger, Sanford, Fla.) 


176 


177 


192 


193 


210 
211 
211 
211 
211 
222 
222 
223 


223 


ILLUSTRATIONS Xvii 


FACING PAGE 
Sampson Tangelo ‘ P : : . 240 
(Permission of U. S. Department of Agicdieups) 


Pineapples Raised under Protection of Slatted Sheds 241 
(C. C. Allen, St. Petersburg, Fla.) 


North American Watermelons 5 F : . 241 
( Howard, Orlando, Fla.) 

The Banana. ; : : . 256 
Bresson by J. C. E. ‘Giswianaet Sanford, Fla.) 
Plants by courtesy of ay acob Shannebarger) 

California Figs . ‘ ; ‘ . 257 
(C. C. Pierce & Co., Los Siviie Cal.) 

Bloom of the Date Palm . ‘ : , . | 274 
(J. C. E. Ensminger, Sanford, Fla.) 

Up in the Heart of 2 Date Palm . : i . 274 
(R. M. F. Berry, Orlando, Fila.) 

Wild Date Palm of India ; : ; j - 274 


(Scowen & Co., Ceylon) 


Gathering Cocoanuts  . ; ‘ : a 295 


Blossoms by i. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 
Palm by Lychenheim (on Co., Havana, Cuba) 


Flat and Conical Japan Persimmons 3 : . 286 
(T. P. Robinson, Orlando, Fla.) 


Delmas Persimmon ‘ ‘ , . 286 
(Permission of U. S. Department of Aevivitics’ 


Tropical Papaw . : : : . 287 
(J. C. E. Ensminger, Santen Fila.) : 


Apple and Pear Guavas ‘ ; ‘ : . 287 
(R. M. F. Berry, Orlando, Fila.) 


The Alligator Pear: Aguacate ; . : 290 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 


Pomegranates : ‘ : . 290 
(Permission of G. L. Taber, Glen St. Mc ary, Fla, J 


The Sweet Sop or Sugar Apple ; ‘ : . 291 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 


Xviii ILLUSTRATIONS 


FACING PAGE 


The Sour Sop : : ; ‘ : : - 291 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fia.) 

Mammee Sapota . ‘ ; ‘ a ‘ . 302 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fila.) 

The Mangosteen . : . . ‘ : - 302 
(Scowen & Co., Ceylon) 

The Sapodilla : : : i ‘ » 303 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla. 

The Bread Fruit . : ; 7 P - 303 


(Photograph by Scowen & Co., Ceylon, 
Conney oF eis Art Co., Boslon, ahass.) 


The Prickly Pear . ‘ : . . A . gto 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 


Mammee Apple or St. Domingo Apricot . - «310 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 


Cashew Nut or Apple . ; F » gir 
(Permission of P. W. Ri » Oneco, Fla.) 

Fruit of Spanish Bayonet . . 3 : - grr 
(T. P. Robinson, Orlando, Fla.) 

The Tamarind. : . : ; . + 314 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 

Tamarind Tree. : ; : ‘ 3 + 314 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fla.) 

Mulgoba Mango . : : P a : - 315 


(Permission of U. S. Department of Agriculture’ 


One of the “Stringy Mangoes” F ‘ ‘ » 315 
(F. W. Hunt, Key West, Fila.) 


WEIGHTS AND 


2 saltspoons 
2 coffeespoons 
60 drops 

3 teaspoons (dry) 

4 teaspoons (liquid) 

4 tablespoons (liquid) 

4 tablespoons (liquid) 

8 large tablespoons or 2 wine 
glasses 

2 gills 

1 cup” 

2 cups or 32 tablespoons 

2 pints or four cups 

1 cup granulated sugar 

1 cup butter (solid) 

1 rounding tablespoon butter 

1 heaping tablespoon sugar 

1 tablespoon of liquid 


MEASURES 


equal 


one coffee spoon 


teaspoon 
teaspoon 
tablespoon 
tablespoon 
wineglass 
half cup 


gill 

cup 

half pint 
pint 

quart 

half pound 
half pound 
ounce 
ounce 

half ounce 


FRUIT RECIPES 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 


THERE are certain foundation formulas or recipes which 
are applicable, with variations, to every known fruit, such 
as blanc mange, custard, fruit soup, etc. These are given 
below so that where special formulas are not given later 
the general rule may be applied. 


FRUIT SOUPS 


Fruit Soups are usually served cold—where convenient 
chilled on ice—in very small china or glass bowls or bouillon 
cups. With this daintiness of service, however, it may be 
forgotten or not realised that such soups are not to the 
stomach mere empty, introductory flourishes, ‘whatever 
the intent. Fruit soups are foods and as such are used in 
many countries by even the peasants, though they may 
lack delicate table appointments. It is true that a fruit 
may be used which is not of itself substantial (though the 
opposite may hold, as with prunes) but the sago, arrowroot, 
or tapioca used for thickening furnishes a certain amount 
of heat-producing material and where wine is added this 
is increased, so it may readily be understood why, when 
used in quantity, such combinations may approach, of 
themselves “‘substantial meals’? or why, even in small 
measure, fruit soups with but slight additions of foods 
containing other balancing elements, may arrive at the 
right to be chief “dish” of a luncheon or light supper. 

As a general rule stewed fruit passed:-through a sieve may 
have added to it an equal quantity of water and to each 
pint a heaping teaspoon or scant dessertspoon of sago, 
arrowroot (for which cornstarch may be substituted) or 


3 


4 FRUIT RECIPES 


tapioca. Some instructors give the rule of a level table- 
spoon of cornstarch to each pint of clear, pressed fruit- 
juice, which, however, may be slightly diluted. The ar- 
rowroot or cornstarch is a quicker process and should be 
dissolved till smooth in a little cold water, added when the 
fruit juice is at boiling point, then cooked till clear; mean- 
time adding sugar, and later a tablespoon of lemon juice or 
wine. If sago or tapioca is used it must be cooked till 
thoroughly tender and translucent. A fruit soup made 
of raspberries may serve as example of a lighter fruit soup 
and the Swedish of those more substantial. See also the 
Prune, the Apple, etc., or apply as convenience. and taste 
dictate. 


RED RASPBERRY SOUP 


Add one pound granulated sugar to two quarts of red 
raspberries well looked over and mashed. Let stand an 
hour, then put through sieve. Heat gradually, stirring 
carefully, and when at boiling point add a tablespoon of 
cornstarch which has been dissolved in just a little cold 
water. When clear, smooth, and thickened add a half- 
pint of sherry, remove at once and let cool. When 
ready to serve pour it over shaved ice in glasses. 


SWEDISH FRUIT SOUP 


Allow one-third part of apricots or prunes to two-thirds 
dried apples, in proportion of a cup of the apples to two 
quarts of water. Wash and soak over night in the water 
(cold). In the morning place on the stove with a cup of 
raisins or currants, or half and half, a sprinkling of cinnamon 
and tablespoon of tapioca or sago. Add another quart 
of cold water and simmer till fruits and tapioca or sago 
are tender, Add a little sugar or salt as liked. 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 5 


FRUIT SALADS 


In preparing fruit salads there are several points to be 
keptin mind: the general form of the salad, the combination 
of the elements composing it; the dressing and the gar- 
nishing. Remembering these, one may have infinite and 
most appetising charm of variety. As to the form, the 
salad may be served in delicate green or rosy apples, hol- 
lowed out; in pears, like fashion; in small or large melons; 
in tomato, pepper, or other vegetable casing; in the rinds 
of the citrus fruits etc. The salad itself may be a mere 
salad or it may have meat value by the addition of hard- 
boiled eggs, nuts, chopped or whole ‘‘meats,’’ or, some- 
times, even cheese. Popcorn furnishes a nourishing ad- 
dition also. Celery or other dainty vegetable may be 
combined with fruit, and of fruit itself not only the sub- 
stantial but the delicate may be combined to attract 
both eye and palate: bananas and melons, cubed, or 
peaches (of similar substance) may be added to cherries, 
to the candied angelica (traditionally ‘‘ good for the diges- 
tion”), to currants, red or blue plums, or strawberries. 
Pineapple and other southern fruits, as well as the 
northern-known, juicy citrus family, may be added 
to the delicate green cucumber, to pears and apples, or 
to seeded grapes or olives. There is nothing which 
cannot be artistically blended with something else in 
the fruit or vegetable world, or with rose petals, candied 
violets, etc. 

The garnishing appeals to the eye but even the gayly- 
graceful nasturtium has a spicily stimulating mission 
stomachward. Cress may be either a garnish or the body 
of the salad, as also may be lettuce, etc. But sprigs of 
currants, white or red, may be used; parsley (a stimu- 
lant in disguise); sprays of cherries or kumquats; or figs or 
dates softly fresh or freshened. Or there may be a bed of 


6 FRUIT RECIPES 


vegetable or fruit gelatine; celery or tomato, lemon or 
melon, and so on, endlessly. 

The dressing is an important matter whether it be the 
“simple”? French or a combination of flavoured secrets. 
Olive oil requires virtually no digestion and furnishes an 
immense amount of nourishment. But even yet there 
are people who find it apparently impossible to cultivate 
a taste for it and so eschew salads or substitute butter for 
the oil. The oil, however, may be used with little or none 
of the oil flavour, or whipped cream may be substituted 
with pure fruit salads. 


FRENCH DRESSING 


Mix well one-half teaspoon each of salt and pepper with 
one tablespoon of lemon juice (or fruit vinegar). Pour 
this gradually, stirring the while, on three tablespoons of 
olive oil. Toss the salad in this thoroughly. Melted 
butter may be substituted for the oil. 


SIMPLE MAYONNAISE 


To the yolk of one egg allow about one cup of olive oil 
and three tablespoons of lemon juice or strong, pure vine- 
gar. To the yolk of the egg add one saltspoon of salt and 
a dash of cayenne pepper or Tabasco, and a teaspoon of 
either prepared mustard or Worcestershire Sauce. (These 
may of course be omitted if preferred). Add a few drops 
of oil to the whipped yolk and beat well with silver fork, 
adding more oil, little by little, alternating with the acid 
until the dressing is quite stiff and glossy. Keep ice-cold 
until used. Also, this may be frozen (in glass) by burying 
it in ice and salt for two hours. (Real olive oil con- 
geals at higher temperature than other oils. If the oil is 
merely labelled “‘ olive oil” it will not freeze so quickly.) 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 7 


CREAM OR WHITE MAYONNAISE 


This may be made with sweet or sour cream; if the for- 
mer, having the cream whipped and adding in equal quan- 
tity to mayonnaise already prepared. Sour thick cream 
may be substituted, or whipped white of egg. This may 
be coloured green with spinach juice or pink with berry- 
syrup or cordials or with cochineal or maraschino. 


COOKED MAYONNAISE 


Put on the stove one teacup of vinegar and let it come to 
a boil (in double vessel), adding three tablespoons sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and six 
mustard spoons of mixed or French mustard, with three 
tablespoons of olive oil or melted butter. While this 
mixture is heating beat well the yolks of three eggs, adding 
at the last a dessertspoon of flour. Whip this lightly into 
the heated vinegar, etc., and let cook till thick, stirring all 
the while and never letting boil, Remove and cool. This 
will keep a long time (for salad dressing) without ice. 


OLIVE OIL AND CREAM FRUIT DRESSING 


Use equal quantity of oil and cream. (The evaporated, 
unsweetened cream will answer the purpose very nicely.) 
The oil must be added gradually to the cream and mixed 
shortly before serving or it will separate. Flavour this 
with maraschino, or some other liqueur, brandy, or cordial, 
and the oil is quite disguised. 


WHIPPED CREAM DRESSING 


A simple whipped cream may be substituted for an oil 
dressing with fruits and may be flavoured with cordials or 
liqueurs or not, as the fruit or one’s taste indicates. 


8 FRUIT RECIPES 


WHIPPED EGG FRUIT DRESSING 


To the white of one egg allow a tablespoon of olive oil. 
Whip first the egg,-adding oil gradually as in mayonnaise. 
Flavour with lemon juice, salt, cayenne, etc., as for may- 
onnaise, or substitute pure fruit cordials or liqueurs; fail- 
ing these use a pure fruit syrup, fresh or preserved. 


SOUR CREAM DRESSINGS 


When cream is soured, but not old enough to be strong 
(although it may be very thick), it may be used in several 
ways for dressing: (1.) Rub smooth the yolks of four 
hardboiled eggs, adding gradually fiye tablespoons of sour, 
thick cream. Thin and flavour this with lemon or wild 
orange juice or tarragon vinegar. (2.) Mix smooth in a 
cup of sour cream a tablespoon of flour. Have heating 
three tablespoons of lemon juice or vinegar, and two of 
butter, one-half teaspoon each of sugar and mustard, and 
pinch of cayenne or paprika. Mix cream and flour in this 
and cook three minutes, stirring the while. Just before 
removing from fire add the stiff whipped whites of two eggs. 
Remove and cool. (3.) Thick, fresh, sour cream may 
be used uncooked, with lemon juice or a thick syrup or 
cordial flavouring. Just before serving the whipped 
whites of twe eggs may be added, but this cannot stand 
long and the egg is not necessary. 


SIMPLE BISCUIT DOUGH 


Sift one teaspoon of salt and two (rounding) of baking 
powder through one quart of flour and rub into the whole 
one heaping tablespoon of shortening. In the centre pour 
gradually one pint of sweet milk, or part milk and part 
water, making a soft dough with as little mixing as pos- 
sible. Roll out; cut and bake quickly. 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 9 


DROP BISCUIT OR SCONES 


Where drop biscuit or scones are wished drop the dough 
by the spoonful (size desired) on to well greased pan— 
instead of rolling out—while the dough is yet not in the 
smooth, harder condition required for rolling and cutting. 


SHORT-CAKE (Plain) 


To each pint of flour allow one dessertspoon of shortening 
(or one tablespoon if a richer dough is preferred), one 
dessertspoon of sugar, one heaping teaspoor baking pow- 
der, and a half teaspoon of salt. Roll out and bake in two 
sheets (either round or square tins), and bake about twenty 
minutes in a rather quick oven. Separate the sheets with 
a fork and pour or spread over them the prepared fruit. 
‘Or the dough may be rolled thinner, buttered, and folded 
over so that the sheets may be opened more readily. ‘For 
further directions see Strawberry Shortcake.) 


PASTRY FOR PIES AND TARTS 


1. Potato Paste (Without Shortening) 
To three-fourths pint very mealy potatoes add a half 
teaspoon salt and sufficient flour to make quite stiff. Soften 
this with cream sufficiently to roll out easily. Bake quickly. 


2. Oatmeal Paste (Without Shortening) 
Scald two cups fine oatmeal with one cup boiling water, 
mixing thoroughly. Roll thin and line pie-tins, then bake 
lightly belore filling with pie mixture. 


3. Pastry Made with Cream 


One and three-fourths pints flour in which has been 
sifted a half teaspoon each of baking powder and salt. 
Mix into this quickly one cup of cream, rolling thin the 


Io FRUIT RECIPES 


resulting dough. Spread on this one dessertspoon of but- 
ter; fold over and roll out again. 


4. Bread Dough Paste 


Roll shavings of butter in bread dough, rolling out and 
spreading it three times. 


5. Plain Pastry with Shortening 


With three cups flour sift one teaspoon salt and one-half 
teaspoon baking powder. Rub or cut into this three- 
fourths cup of shortening. Moisten with ice water just 
enough to bind together and roll out. Fine-chopped, fresh 
beef suet may be used: one-half cupful to each cup of flour. 

Make a funnel of stiff white paper and insert in top crust 
with covered fruit pies and the juice will not run out at 
the edges. (Where the lower crust is baked before adding 
the tart or pie ‘‘filling’’ or the under crust is omitted, 
pies and tarts may be light, flaky, and digestible as well as 
delicious and few need be debarred their old-fashioned 
delights.) 

EGGLESS CAKE 


One and one-half cups sugar; one-half cup shortening, 
two cups sweet milk; three and a half cups flour, in which 
has been sifted the baking powder (three rounding tea- 
spoons) and a pinch of salt. If other shortening than but- 
ter is used a tablespoon of brandy or other liquor will dis- 
guise any possible suggestion, but other flavouring may be 
added as well without conflicting. 


ONE-EGG CAKE 


One and a half cups sugar; one-half cup shortening; 
one cup sweet milk; one egg; three and one-fourth cups 
flour; three rounding teaspoons baking powder, and 
pinch of salt. Flavouring as wished. 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 11 


ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR CAKE 


One cup each of butter and milk; two scant cups sugar; 
three cups flour; four eggs; two small teaspoons baking 
powder. 


SIMPLE SPONGE CAKE 


Three-fourths cup sugar; one cup sifted flour; one and 
one-half teaspoons baking powder; two eggs beaten with 
the sugar; a pinch of salt; two large (kitchen) tablespoons 
cold water; any flavouring desired. (If wine is used sub- 
stitute one tablespoon of it for one of water). This makes 
a small cake. 


FRUIT CAKES 


The generally accepted unwholesomeness of fruit cakes 
is chiefly based on the fact that the condensed nutriment 
of such cakes is not realised and they are eaten ‘‘on top of”’ 
too much other food or in too great quantity at any time. 
The dried fruits contain concentrated nourishment and 
should be eaten sparingly as well as at proper time, with 
thorough mastication. 


WHITE FRUIT CAKE (German Recipe) 


Beat together one cup of butter and two of sugar; add 
one-half glass white wine and then the stiff-whipped whites 
of eight eggs. Now add gradually three cups of flour, in 
which two teaspoons of baking powder have been sifted, 
and at the last one-quarter pound fine cut citron, one-half 
pound chopped almonds, one teacup of light-coloured 
currants and one-half cup grated cocoanut. Bake slowly 
about two hours, until it does not stick to the slenderest 
straw. 


12 FRUIT RECIPES 


BLACK FRUIT CAKE (German Recipe) 


Cream well one pound each of butter and sugar and add 
a good glass of brandy, three cups of flour, in which have 
been sifted five teaspoons of baking powder, one cup of 
water, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, six well- 
beaten eggs, and one pound each of well-prepared currants, 
raisins, figs, dates, and prunes. Bake three hours. 


PLAIN BOILED ICING (With Egg) 


To a cup of granulated sugar add one-half cup water and 
let boil till it strings from spoon or hardens slightly in cold 
water. Have ready the whipped white of an egg (or two) 
and on this pour the boiling syrup, beating with silver fork. 
Add flavouring and when the icing has thickened a little 
spread on the cake. 


ICING WITH WATER ONLY 


To a half cup of boiling water add sufficient confection- 
er’s sugar to make of convenient stiffness for spreading. 


SOFT ICING (Without Egg) 


Use one-third part of water to granulated sugar and let 
boil without stirring till it threads or ‘‘ropes’? when re- 
move and let stand till barely warm. Beat then till dough- 
like and knead till creamy. This will keep if placed in glass 
in a cool spot. When needed place in double boiler with 
hot water in outer vessel and stir till sufficiently soft to 
use, then flavour. 


FRUIT BUTTER 


Chop together equal parts of stoned raisins, dates, and 
figs and add (after weighing) nuts equal in weight to the 
whole. The nuts may be mixed according to convenience 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 13 


or taste, as one part each of black and white walnuts, 
pecans, almonds, peanuts, hazel or Brazil nuts. Mix 
thoroughly together and pack in a mould for slicing. 


GERMAN FRUIT BROD 


Stew separately one pound dried apples and two pounds 
each of apricots, prunes, and pears, and when quite done 
mix together, adding two pounds raisins and a pound each 
of chopped citron and nuts. Also add one pound sugar, 
one-half teaspoon cloves, and one teaspoon each of all- 
spice, anise, and cinnamon. Set a dough with flour and 
plenty of yeast but dampen only with the juice cooked out 
of the fruit. Let rise, and bake slowly two hours or more. 


BREAD FOR FRUIT TOAST 


At noon put to soak one cake of yeast in one-half pint 
lukewarm water and when thoroughly dissolved stir with 
it sufficient flour to thicken well into rather a stiff batter. 
Let rise till just before ‘‘bed time.”” Then add one quart 
and a half-pint lukewarm milk (or one five-cent can 
evaporated cream diluted to equal above quantity); one 
heaping tablespoon shortening; one dessertspoon salt; 
three-fourths cup sugar and flour to make a moderately 
stiff bread dough (as if for last working). Work just a 
little, then set to rise (covered) in place free from draughts. 
This will be ready to make up by about six o’clock next 
morning (depending somewhat of course upon the 
temperature). Work out into individual loaves and set 
to rise again. Bake three-quarters of an hour. Have 
oven at moderate temperature at first, then increase the 
heat as the loaves come up. This will make four ‘brick 
loaves.” 

To each loaf may be added one and a half cups of chop- 


14 FRUIT RECIPES 


ped nuts (preferably peanuts), but the nut bread must not 
be allowed to become stale or rancid. Served with fruit 
and the fruit juice this combination gives an excellent 
proportion of the food values required by the body for 
nourishment and in sufficient quantity is of itself a good 
luncheon or breakfast. 


BATTER PUDDING 


This is an old-fashioned foundation batter pudding 
which may be used plain with a fresh or stewed fruit sauce 
or the fruit cooked with the pudding. The pudding may 
be baked in a buttered dish for thirty-five minutes or 
boiled in a close-covered mould in rapidly boiling water 
for two hours. 

To a pint of cold milk allow two eggs, a little salt, and 
four tablespoons of flour. Sufficient for four people. 


BATTER FOR FRUIT FRITTERS 


To one cup of flour add a good pinch of salt and a half 
teaspoon of baking powder, then sift. Into the middle of 
this stir two beaten eggs and a half cup each of milk and 
sugar, then beat well. One egg only may be used, in which 
case add a half teaspoon of baking powder. 


PLAIN BOILED CUSTARD AND FLOAT 


To each quart of milk allow four or five eggs and three 
tablespoons of sugar, beating the sugar with the yolks of 
the eggs before adding the milk. The whites may be 
whipped separately with a tablespoon of sugar and used as 
a meringue or whipped lightly into the body of the custard 
as preferred. The custard may have added to it a tea- 
spoon or more of dissolved cornstarch. This may also be 
baked, placing the custard in cups or one dish, baking 
carefully in moderate oven in an outer vessel of water. 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 15 


Float is a thinner form of custard and for this three or 
four eggs may be used with a little cornstarch. Neither 
the thicker, ‘‘boiled’’ custard or float should be allowed to 
boil but (in a double boiler) cooked just under boiling point 
and watched carefully while it thickens. 


PLAIN CORNSTARCH BLANC MANGE 


Allow three heaping tablespoons of cornstarch to one 
quart of milk, wetting and dissolving it with a little of 
cold milk. Heat the rest of the milk to boiling point with 
three tablespoons of sugar and pinch of salt. Add to it the 
dissolved cornstarch and cook gently about flve minutes, 
adding at the last the flavouring desired. Eggs may be 
used with this if the perfectly smooth stiffness is not de- 
sired. In this case have eggs ready whipped, the whites 
alone (one or two or more) or both yolks and whites; pour 
in and beat lightly with the mixture just before removing. 
Place in a wetted mould to cool and chill before serving. 


PLAIN TAPIOCA OR SAGO 


Allow one-half cup tapioca or sago to one quart of cold 
milk. Let soak in part of the milk till softened well. 
Place the rest of the milk meantime in double boiler to heat 
with two tablespoons sugar and half teaspoon salt. When 
the sago or tapioca is softened add to the heated milk 
and cook till thick. The sugar may be omitted and a little 
butter substituted. Also, for a richer pudding, two eggs 
may be added, whipped (with flavouring) and beaten 
in just before removing from the fire. 

For the plainest form add no milk or egg, substituting 
fruit juice or wineand pouring over the fruit desired. How- 
ever the white of an egg whipped stiff gives lightness in 
texture and taste. 


16 FRUIT RECIPES 


PLAIN GELATINE 


Soak one box gelatine in three-fourths pint of cold water 
till dissolved, when add one quart boiling water, the juice 
of three lemons (or other fruit juice) and sugar to taste 
(about two cups will make this moderately sweet). Let 
cool, then set on ice to harden. In hot weather reduce 
somewhat the quantity of water used. Or use three pints 
fruit juice (no water) to one box of gelatine, soaking it in 
part of the juice. Proceed as above 


“SPONGE” 


A “sponge” may be made by the addition of whipped 
white of egg to plain gelatine (as above). 


ITALIAN OR SPANISH AND BAVARIAN CREAMS 


The so-called Italian and Spanish creams are founded 
upon a gelatine mixture with the addition of eggs, while 
the Bavarian Cream in general substitutes whipped cream 
for eggs. Very simple forms of these are here given: 


1. Spanish or Italian Cream 


Dissolve one-half box gelatine by barely covering it 
with cold water, letting stand an hour or more. Mean- 
time make a custard with one pint milk, three-fourths cup 
of sugar, a pinch of salt, and, when at boiling point, the 
yolks of three eggs (beaten with part of the sugar), whipped 
in with the dissolved gelatine. Beat and stir a few minutes 
then remove, add flavouring and the whites of the eggs 
whipped very stiff. Let cool and set on ice to chill. 


2. Bavarian Cream 


Dissolve one-half box gelatine in one-half cup water. 
Heat to boiling point a cup of milk with a half cup of sugar 
and pinch of salt. Add the softened gelatine, then strain 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 17 


and add flavouring. Beat till it begins ta cool and 
thicken when add lightly a pint of cream well whipped 
and place on ice to harden. 


ICE CREAM AND ICES 


For a plain foundation ice cream use equal quantity of 
new milk and cream. Heat to boiling point (not beyond) 
adding one cup of sugar with a pinch of salt. Let cool 
before adding fruit juice or pulp, or both, with perhaps 
a little lemon juice to bring out the flavour. It is often 
advisable, where the fruit juice is uncooked or very tart, to 
partially freeze the cooled cream and milk before adding 
the juice. 

About one heaping teaspoon of gelatine (dissolved before 
adding) for each pint of the milkand cream gives the smooth- 
ness of a mousse, which is also attained by the addition of 
whipped cream. 

Evaporated cream or condensed milk may be used with 
excellent results. 

Whipped cream and the whipped whites of eggs in equal 
portion may be frozen and merely flavoured with fruit 
juice or have added an equal part of sweetened fruit pulp. 


FROZEN CUSTARD 


To one quart of heated milk add three well-beaten eggs, 
one cup of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Cool, add the fruit 
or juice desired, and freeze. With custard, also, it is 
sometimes best to partially freeze before adding to it the 
fruit juice. 

FRUIT ICES AND SHERBETS 
Make a syrup in general proportion of one quart of 


water to a pound of sugar with a pinch of salt and boil five 
minutes. The sweetness or tartness of the fruit used 


18 FRUIT RECIPES 


necessitates varying the amount of sugar. When cold add 
to the syrup a pint of fruit juice, also pulp if wished. 

Sherbets or ‘‘sorbets’’ are made by adding to the ice made 
as above, when partially frozen, the whipped white of an 
egg (or two if liked) for the above quantity, or with a 
little sugar added. 

Granites are coarse-grained ices packed in the can and 
set away without stirring till the expiration of an hour when 
the sides are scraped fresh and the mixture re-packed. 
This is twice repeated. Itis not until the ice is scraped and 
stirred that the fruit is added, lightly mixed in. , 


FRUIT JUNKET 


Make with junket tablets according to given directions 
on all such packages. Fill large dish or individual serving 
cups or sherbert glasses with fruit, fresh or stewed, sweet- 
ened, about one-half full, On this pour the tablet when 
dissolved according to instructions. Let this “‘set”’ till 
quite firm before placing on ice to chill. 


SOUFFLES 


The connection is immediate between the word soufflé, 
or the souffié concoction, and the French verb souffler: 
to inflate; to swell; to blow out, etc., the foundation of 
souffiés being the whipped egg which rises and falls again. 
Two simple forms of soufflé are here given which may be 
adapted to any fruit or its juice. 


1. Simple Souffié 

Separate six eggs; add a pinch of salt to the whites and 
whip till ‘“‘dry.”” Whip separately three of the yolks then 
fold in lightly with the whites, adding a tablespoon of any 
fruit juice and sprinkling sugar over the top. Bake 
quickly in hot oven ten minutes. 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES 19 


2. Soufflgé—With Cooked Foundation 


Take two tablespoons each of butter and flour; rub 
smooth and add to a pint of scalding milk (in double boiler). 
Cook till thick. Add yolks of three eggs and three table- 
spoons sugar, stirring two minutes, then removing and cool- 
ing. Add fruit juice or pulp as wished then fold in the 
stiff-whipped whites of the eggs and bake ten or fifteen 
minutes in individual souffié dishes. If made into one large 
soufié the baking will require about thirty-five minutes. 


SIMPLE OMELET 


There is a difference of opinion among cooks as to the 
beating of the eggs for omelets, many holding that the 
yolks and whites should be whipped separately, and others 
that it makes no difference, but that twelve strokes. given 
to yolks and whites together is all sufficient. Use three 
eggs; if double the quantity is required make in separate 
omelet pans. Four tablespoons of milk may be added for 
three eggs. Many people also prefer the addition of a 
teaspoon of flour. Sprinkle salt and pepper on the eggs 
before beating them and have the pan heating, placing in 
it a tablespoon of butter. When the latter is ‘‘sizzling”’ 
pour in the omelet and let set. When browned turn one 
side over on the other then toss onto the serving platter. 

TO CAN FRUIT ’ 

As a general proportion allow two cups of water to one of 
sugar for the lighter canning syrup. Prepare the fruit 
and pack closely in the jars to be used, which should be 
sterilised by placing cans, rubbers, funnel, spoons, and 
tops in cold water, bringing to boiling point and boiling for 
five minutes. Meantime have ready the syrup, skimming 
when it has boiled. (Very little water should be used with the 


20 FRUIT RECIPES 

juicy fruits and the amount of sugar may be lessened or 
omitted entirely if the fruit is to be used for cooking pur- 
poses.) Place the fruit in the hot jars, (tops loose) filling up with 
thesyrup; then putjarsin a boiler on afalse bottom of slats, 
perforated wood, or some soft material (as hay or cloth) 
having the surface even, and so packing in the jars with the 
hay, etc., that they donot touch or move about with the mo- 
tion of the (later) boiling water. Fill the boiler to the necks 
of the jars with lukewarm water; place the boiler-cover on 
over the fire and let water heat gradually. Afterit reaches 
boiling point let it boil twenty minutes for small fruits and 
longer for the heavier kinds, then remove the cover; pull 
the boiler back for convenience when the steam has disap- 
peared. Remove the jars singly, plating them in a shallow 
pan of boiling water; fill up with boiling syrup and seal. 
Be sure that all air bubbles are gone. Place again on perfor- 
ated board to cool where there are no draughts. The covers 
may have to be tightened before setting away. 

Another method is to fill the jars with the fruit, adding 
a half cup of granulated sugar for each pint of fruit, sift- 
ing it into the jars (with no water). Proceed then as above 
till jars are to be removed when fill each one up with boil- 
ing water or boiling syrup (either syrup prepared or from 
one of the other jars of fruit). 

Set jars in a dark place, or wrap each one in paper. 
The old rule for the richer preserves is pound for pound of 
sugar and fruit. 

For jelly the general rule is pint for pound of fruit juice 
and sugar, but this must vary with the kind or condition 
of fruit. With very sweet fruit the quantity of sugar 
should be less than the measure of syrup. Avoid making 
jelly (or icing or candies) on rainy or damp days. Choose 
a dry and if possible a sunny day. Never squeeze the 
fruit in jelly-bag but first wring out the bag in hot water 


INTRODUCTORY RECIPES . al 


to avoid any waste of juice. In using spices place them 
in cheesecloth bags and remove them before the jars are 
sealed for the more delicate pickles or spiced fruits as 
the spice will darken the fruit and tend to make it look 
old (see Citron Melon in Jelly, under Melons), 


PRESERVED FRUIT SYRUPS 


With some fruits the juice may be preserved without 
sugar, aS with some grapes and with currants. For syrups 
to be used for sauces, drinks, frozen desserts, etc., measure 
juice and add half the amount of sugar. Half this amount 
of sugar will suffice for an ordinary preserved fruit juice. 
Bring to boiling point then strain; re-heat; boil five minutes 
and bottle. 

TO MULL WINE 


To one pint of wine add one fourth pint of water which 
has been steeped with one teaspoon each of mace, cinna- 
mon, and cloves. Sweeten to taste. 


FRUIT LOZENGES 


Cherries, currants, or other tart fruits may be made into 
the old-fashioned lozenges by adding one-third pint (or 
less) of sugar to each pint of thick, strained fruit juice, 
simmering together forty minutes and adding when at 
boiling point two tablespoons gelatine dissolved in a very 
little cold water. Stir well, remove, and continue stirring 
till it begins to cool and thicken when pour into buttered 
earthen pans. Let dry slowly, sprinkle with sugar during 
the process, and cut into shapes liked. 


COOKED SOFT CREAM CANDY FOR STUFFING FRUITS 


Where confectioner’s sugar is not used with white of 
egg (uncooked), making stiff enough to roll, the following 


22 FRUIT RECIPES 


will be found satisfactory: Take two pounds of white 
sugar and one teacup of water or milk, boiling till just 
before it threads from spoon if water is used, if milk, till 
it thickens and can be softly rolled when dropped in water 
(‘the soft ball stage’). Flavour with vanilla or fruit 


juice. Remove and stir till creamy. 


CLEAR FRUIT CANDY 


Instead of using water, as above, use some tart fruit 
juice and let cook without stirring till it strings from the 


spoon. 
FROSTED FRUITS 


Frost as for Grapes (see Grape Snow). 


CHAPTER I 
THE APPLE (Malus malus: Malacee) 


HE apple is of all fruits the most entirely taken for 
granted. It has become as much a matter of 
‘course as the universe itself and just as naturally stands at 
the head of the fruits as does the sun among the heavenly 
bodies (of familiar, ‘“‘speaking’’ aquaintance). And, as 
its first letter gives it front rank in the alphabet and primers 
so has the name of apple appealed first—foremost—to the 
imaginations of men and the fruit to their palates from 
the time of the earliest relation (not to say actual occur- 
rence!) of the story of Adam and Eve. Otherwise, why 
the apple instead of some one of the numerous delicious 
and more delicate southern fruits? It is substantial, 
firm, yet gracious and sunny; eminently practical; thus 
one may say, fitted in every way to stand the wear and tear 
of the ages. In poetry, folk-lore, and even history, no 
fruit has been more often referred to; its beauty and whole- 
someness more constantly eulogised; standing out as the 
type of pomological excellence. Men it is who chiefly 
have written poetry and history, however divided their 
responsibility in the creation of beauty and facts, and men, 
like the apple, are eminently practical. Yet are men’s 
hearts and minds not always won through the gastronomic 
channel or the appeal of the practical. The wild crab, 
supposed to be the earliest type of apple, lacked as a fruit 
some of the excellence of evolution, but there is yet, in 
these later ages, no flower, wild or cultivated, which can 
rival the wild crab-apple blossom in rare fragrance and 
23 


24 FRUIT RECIPES 


delicacy of beauty; none which even approaches its magi- 
cal perfume and charm save the sweet olive (Olea jrag- 
rans). It is sufficient in its marvellous witchery to cap- 
tivate and inspire rhapsody in the most practical—in even 
unimaginative, primeval man. And so, to its possession 
of unusual virtues and beauty has been added (happily, 
save in the instance of Adam) the appreciation of men; 
therefore the preéminence of the apple. 

This first of fruits is known in Arabia and other southern 
countries but is essentially a product of the colder, more 
bracing climes; one fitted by its combination of refreshing 
acids, substantial bulk and stimulating juice, its possi- 
bilities in natural or (whether cooked or dried) preserved 
state, as food or drink, to give in such latitudes just that 
degree of comfort to man’s physical organism, material for 
the playful exercise of the intellect and innocent revel of the 
esthetic senses which are required for complete human en- 
joyment. It is concentrated power which may be applied 
toward the establishment and preservation of health; a 
dynamo possessing and giving out in its flavour, texture, 
and its action upon the body that vigorous poise neces- 
sary to offset any possible ill effects from long continued 
seasons of cold, when the earth rests and humanity is 
prone to become careless and let the blood and liver grow 
sluggish. 

The juice of the apple combines extremes; the sparklé 
of sunshine and the sparkle of frost-time, the sun’s glow 
laughing out in the working warmth of winter cider, the 
frost-touch cooling the blood in the seasons of the sun. 
Joel Benton claimed that ‘‘the apple bears a very pertinent 
relation to the brain, stimulating life and activity, which 
it does by its immense endowment of phosphorus, in which 
element it is said to be richer than anything in the vege- 
table kingdom.” Even though the value or proportion 


THE APPLE 25 


of phosphorus, whether in apples or fish, is now considered 
no greater than that of other food elements; this is an in- 
teresting statement as proving the earlier, generally ac- 
cepted wholesomeness of apples and as a reminder that in 
former days men of marked mental achievement prized 
and placed first in their fruit affections and habits of eat- 
ing, the apple, publicly proclaiming and protesting their 
admiration for it. And one who nowadays has even oc- 
casionally felt the stimulation and refreshment of this fruit 
can well believe that a comparatively steady diet of it 
might prove conducive to brain activity and general well 
being. To-day, through improved methods of cultivation 
and better shipping facilities, we have more kinds of foods 
fresh, canned, or concocted, so that the world indulges less 
freely in such simple pleasures of diet as cider and apples 
and has, by this gain, ina sense undoubtedly lost. Other 
fruits are also of value but to be less bound by the modern 
slavery of the ‘‘necessity’’ of luxuries, whether imported 
and expensive (because less easily obtainable) fruits, or 
tich foods of other kinds, in winter or summer, would tend 
to simpler and more powerful directness of thought and 
strength of brain. 

Pomologically speaking, the apple is the Malus malus, 
broadly considered, of the great Rose Family, and twin 
relative of the pear, yet somewhat more positive in char- 
acter. Its bulk makes it of as much proportionate value 
as a food as do its juices—preventing necessity of medicine. 
Malic acid, that great germ destroyer, is the most prominent 
of its acids, but itssalts—its phosphates, are of equal balance 
in keepingliver, stomach, andintestines in healthful activity. 
An uncooked apple eaten at night before retiring (a glass 
of water to follow it) is one of the oldest of beauty and 
health prescriptions, preventing or relieving constipation, 
and giving clearness of complexion. The uncooked apple 


26 FRUIT RECIPES 


was of old considered Nature’s complement for nuts, the 
eating of them together offsetting too great richness (by 
over-indulgence) of nut-fat and preventing indigestion. 
Salt was eaten with them at night to assist in digesting 
acid and fat: the three forming a notable trio. Cooked, 
the apple is also laxative, tonic and nourishing. 

Fresh, sweet cider, bubbling with beauty, scintillating 
with sun-shafts, needs neither poetry nor spiking to recom- 
mend it, so evident is its simple wholesomeness to even the 
wayfaring man unless he be a fool. The crab-apple’s 
juice (‘‘ver-juice’’) is not pleasing until well fermented 
but in age (at even but three years) attains similarity to 
champagne. Medicinally ver-juice is valued. It should 
be mentioned here that the common crab-apple and the 
Siberian crabs are of different species, the latter being 
Pyrus baccata and Pyrus prunifolia. 

Cider (with the possibility of gingerbread) and apples, 
salt, and nuts at the old time gatherings ‘‘ by early candle- 
lighting’’ were more apt to be followed by sleep and health 
than the complicated ‘‘refreshments’’ at later hours of 
modern evening parties. When it is realised that in any 
reasonable form, a diet of apples rivals the famous grape- 
cures and is a diet conducive to beauty, this old-fashioned 
first of fruits must certainly come back into favour and be 
given its former prestige. 

The following is the analysis of a pint of the cider given 
regularly to day-labourers in the agricultural districts of 
England (according to Voelker; Enc. Brit.): 


Gum and Albuminous 
Water Alcoho GrapeSug. Extractive Matter Malic Acid Ash Compounds 
829241 367.60 31.67 45.05 44.86 18.38 1.04 


grs. gis. grs. grs. grs. grs. grs. 


THE APPLE 24 


RECIPES 


OLD-FASHIONED APPLE SAUCE 


Pare, core, and quarter tart apples and at supper time 
place in a small crock on the back of the (warm) stove, 
pouring over the apples a pint of sugar dissolved in a cup 
of hot water. Cover the crock close and let stand till 
morning when the apples will be tender and may be served 
as a breakfast dish or set aside to be chilled for luncheon 


or supper. 
CIDER APPLE SAUCE 


Pare, core, and wash apples (two-thirds sweet, one- 
third sour), and place in preserving kettle with one quart 
of cider for each pailful of apples. Simmer slowly till of 
a deep colour. Quinces may be added to the sauce to give 
flavour; a dozen or less as taste indicates. Put away in 
stone jars. 

STEWED APPLES AND DATES 


Where unripe, insipid apples are the only ones available 
they may be improved in flavour and nutritive value by 
adding a half cup or more of stoned, sliced dates to each 
quart of partially stewed apples. Simmer the fruit to- 
gether about six minutes and set aside to cool. The 
grated rind of a lemon (which, if preferred, may be tied 
in a bit of linen) or the juice of a lemon, placed with the 
apples when first put on, pleasantly varies the flavour. 


APPLES AND PRUNES OR RAISINS 


These also are combinations affording much nourish- 
ment and variety and may be made with either dried or 
fresh apples. If dried wash, core, and soak over night 
and wash the raisins or prunes, working the latter well 
with the hands. Let them stand in the last water over 


28 FRUIT RECIPES 


night and simmer in it in the morning. (The water in which 
the fruit was soaked should be sufficient to cook it all in 
the morning.) Simmer the raisins or prunes very slowly 
for an hour then add the soaked apples and simmer to- 
gether till done. No sugar should be needed, which is an 
additional reason for the healthfulness of the dish. 


BAKED APPLES (With nuts or honey) 


Peel the apples and core well, then place in deep pan, 
allowing a heaping tablespoon of sugar and half a cup of 
water to each apple. In the centre of each apple place a 
teaspoon of chopped nuts and strip of lemon or orange peel 
and over the whole sprinkle cinnamon and nutmeg. Bake 
very slowly and the juice will become jelly-like. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Or, fill centres with honey and alittle butter, preparing 
otherwise the same. 


APPLE SOUP No.1 


For three pints of soup take a pint of apple stewed soft, 
rubbed through colander and sweetened, and to it add 
one and one-half tablespoons sago or tapioca cooked till 
soft and clear in a pint of boiling water. Simmer together 
twenty minutes, flavouring with salt and cinnamon; 
strain and serve hot or chilled. 


APPLE SOUP No. 2 


To two quarts of water allow seven tart apples cored 
but unpeeled, sliced thin. Cook them with one-half cup 
rice till soft then rub through sieve, add spice, a little sugar, 
and chopped or candied fruit. (See also Fruit Soups in 
Introductory Recipes.) 


THE APPLE 29 


APPLE OMELET No.1 


Make Plain Omelet as in Introductory Recipes. When 
cooked sufficiently to fold over, place on one-half of it a 
cup of apple sauce or fine-chopped apple; fold over and 
serve. 

APPLE OMELET No. 2 


Stew, then mash, eight large apples and put through 
colander. Add one cup sugar and one tablespoon butter. 
Let cool; whip in four eggs beaten separately; place in 
baking- or souffié-dish in rather quick oven and bake 
till brown. 

APPLE SALADS 


Green or red uncooked apples may be scooped out and 
filled with popcorn nuts, celery, arid some fruit other than 
the apple, mixed with its cubed pulp, bound together with 
mayonnaise. Garnish with nasturtium or grape or other 
graceful leaves. Chopped apple makes an agreeable 
addition to almost any of the vegetable and many of the 
fruit salads. 

APPLE SANDWICHES 


Spread thin bread with Apple Cheese (see recipe) or 
chopped uncooked apple mixed with nuts. 


APPLE CROQUETTES 


Core, pare, and slice tart apples sufficient for one pint. 
Stew these with a dessertspoon each of butter and water— 
carefully, not to burn—then mash as for apple sauce. 
Place in double boiler and cook till reduced and the apple 
seems dry. Have ready one-third cup of cornstarch mixed 
smooth with a little cold water and stir into the apple with 
a pinch of salt added. Let cook fifteen minutes, just 
before removing adding one beaten egg, whipping as it 


30 ‘FRUIT RECIPES 


cooks, then place ail in a flat, wet mould or deep dish and 
set aside to cool. When needed drop a teaspoon of the 
mixture into fine, dry, bread or cracker crumbs, then into 
an egg beaten, andagain into crumbs. Place in the basket 
of deep ftving kettle in boiling fat until brown. Drain 
and serve with fowl. These croquettes may be spiced or 
flavoured with lemon. 


BAKED APPLES TO SERVE WITH MEAT 


Wash and core cooking apples and fill with equal parts of 
crumbs and mushrooms or potatoes. Season with catsup, 
Chili sauce, or herbs. Place applesin baking dish with a 
bit of butter in each and a little water. Bake till tender. 


FRIED APPLES 


Tart apples, pared, quartered and baked, are better than 
apples fried but to cook the latter with delicate effect 
place a lump of butter in a saucepan and when heated 
spread on it a layer of quartered and again divided or 
finer-sliced apples. Sprinkle with sugar and a little flour 
letting brown, turning, and browning upon second side. 

Tart apples and onions (two-thirds apples) may be 
fried or baked together as indicated for apples alone. 


APPLE FRITTERS 


Sliced apples may be dipped in fritter batter (see Intro- 
ductory Recipes) or chopped apples added to a stiffer 
batter, and fried in deep kettle. Drain and sprinkle with 
sugar. 

APPLE PIE 


Peel and slice tart apples and place in stewpan with barely 
enough water to keep from burning. Stew till but half 
tender (and unbroken); fill a pastry-lined dish or pan, 


THE APPLE 31 


which has sugar and butter sprinkled and dotted over 
the bottom, with layers of the apple, alternating with the 
sugar and butter till dish is full. On top sprinkle flour and 
nutmeg or cinnamon or grated lemon peel and pour over 
the whole three-fourths cup of the apple-syrup or water 
and sugar. Place a pastry cover over the top and slash 
well. The pastry lining should be baked till a light brown 
before the apples are added. For the paste see Intro- 
ductory Recipes. 
APPLE CUSTARD PIE 


For one large pie use one pint of apple sauce and a table- 
spoon of butter, the yolks of three eggs beaten well with a 
pinch of salt and half a cup of sugar. Beat this into a 
pint of hot milk and bake in shallow tin or dish lined with 
crust. (Pastry must be baked before pouring in the 
custard). Flavour with lemon or spice. When done 
spread over the top a meringue made with the whites of 
the eggs and a half cup of sugar. 


APPLE TART 


Fill a baking dish with apple sauce mixed with two 
tablespoons of apricot or lemon marmalade. Finish as for 
apple custard pie, dotting the top with chopped citron or 
candied cherries or angelica. Or a simple meringue may 


be substituted. 
ENGLISH APPLE TART 


Core and pare tart apples; stew whole with as little 
water as possible till tender, though unbroken. Line the 
edges of a baking dish with thin pie paste; fill centre of 
the dish with the apples, in the middle of each dropping 
a little orange or other marmalade. Cover the top with 
a lattice of pastry strips and bake quickly till brown. 
Serve hot. 


32 FRUIT RECIPES 


SCOTCH APPLE TART 


Pare and core apples and place in a crock in a slow oven 
with neither water norsugar. When tender mix in Sultana 
raisins in proportion of one-fourth pound to each pound of 
apples. Place in baking-dish; sprinkle with grated lemon 
and sugar, cover with a sheet of pastry well pricked and 
bake quickly. Serve cold with milk. 


APPLE TURNOVERS 


Make simple pastry and roll out rather thin, cutting 
in squares. In the centre of each place apple sauce, then 
fold over by opposite corners, forming a triangle; pinch 
together; slash, or prick and bake quickly. 


APPLE PANCAKES 


Make a simple batter as for Batter Pudding (see In- 
troductory Recipes), adding two heaping teaspoons of 
baking powder for each quart of flour used. Add two 
cups very fine-chopped apple for each quart of flour used 
and cook as for ordinary griddle cakes. 


APPLE PUFFS, OR FLIP FLAPS 


Make as for Strawberry Batter Cups, using tart apples, 
pared, cored, and sliced or chopped. Use two layers of 
apple: in the centre and on top, Sprinkle with sugar and 
spice before baking. Use gem pans for the distinctive 
form.of “Flip Flaps.” 


APPLE ROLY POLY 


Make a sweet biscuit, dough; roll out thin and spread 
with a layer of chopped apples or apple sauce or other apple 
mixture. Sprinkle with sugar, butter, and spice and roll the 
dough over as for jelly roll. Bake in moderate oven one 
hour, or steam two. 


THE APPLE 33 


APPLE DUMPLINGS, BAKED, No. 1 


Peel and core cooking apples, filling centres with sugar. 
Roll out biscuit dough rather thin and cut in squares large 
enough to cover apples. Place an apple in the centre of 
each square; bring up the corners of the dough and fasten 
by pinching and twisting dough together. Place in baking 
pan close together and when pan is full pour over them a 
syrup made with one pint of water and one pound of sugar, 
letting this come half way to the top of the dumplings. 
Place in rather brisk oven and bake about forty minutes. 
Cinnamon may be sprinkled over the tops of each. This 
is the best form of apple dumplings though there are other 
good methods. 


APPLE DUMPLINGS, BAKED, No. 2 


The apples may be cored and quartered; placed in 
earthen baking-dish with a square of dough tucked down 
around each (not under them) a little sugar and water 
added, and baked. Individual baking-dishes may be used, 
instead. . 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, BOILED 


The apples may be prepared asfor baked dumplings (No.1) 
then each one tied in a cloth, plunged into boiling water, 
and boiled hard an hour and a half. One large dumpling 
may be made, filled with sliced apples and sugar. In the 
latter case it will require two hours to cook thoroughly, 
and the water must boil constantly, being replenished as 
needed. ; 

APPLE DUMPLINGS IN CUPS 


Line baking cups with thin pastry; fill up with slices of 
apple and sugar; place on each a cover of the pastry and 
put them in a large baking-pan, pouring boiling water 
around the cups half way up, and bake in hot oven. 


34 FRUIT RECIPES 


APPLE DUMPLING SLICES 


Make a biscuit dough and roll out thin, covering with a 
layer of fine sliced apples, and roll over as for roly poly. 
Then slice, set the pieces on end (as with domino rows), in 
a buttered pan, and pour over them a syrup of a cup of 
sugar and half a cup of water. Add a bit of butter for 
each dumpling and bake half an hour, or till brown. 


APPLE BATTER PUDDING 


Peel, core, and slice thin six tart apples and place in 
baking-dish. Cream together one-fourth cup butter and 
one cup sugar; add two eggs, one cup of milk, and two cups. 
of flour in which must be sifted two teaspoons baking 
powder. Pour the mixture over the apples and steam 
one hour. Serve with cream or sauce. 


APPLE SLUMP No. 1 


Pare, core, and quarter one dozen tart, juicy apples and 
place in a saucepan which has a close cover. Pour over 
them a pint of hot water and set on the back of the stove 
for eight minutes, when add two cups of molasses. Make 
a soft biscuit dough with milk and roll out half an inch 
thick, making of it a cover for the apples. Place this 
paste-cover on the apples and put on tight the lid of the 
saucepan, bucket, or other vessel used. Cook on top of 
stove for thirty minutes without lifting cover. This may 
be set in oven to brown a few minutes or served as it is— 
with a sweet sauce. 


APPLE SLUMP No. 2 


Mix with a milk biscuit dough (using a pint and a half of 
flour) one or two eggs and through it two quarts of fine- 
cut apples. Place half an inch thick in buttered baking- 
pan. Bake in quick oven and eat with cream. 


THE APPLE 35 


APPLE JONATHAN 


Work butter into bread dough till it is quite short then 
with it line the sidesofa baking-dish. Heap the centre with 
pared, cored, sliced apples and place a thick sheet of the 
paste on top. Bake well, then lift off the crust and turn 
it upside down on a second dish. Into the apples stir 
sugar and butter, with spice if desired, and spread upon the 
crust. Eat hot with cream. , 


BROWN BETTY 


Chop fine two cups of tart apples. Butter a baking- 
dish and place on it a layer of apple, sprinkling with cinna- 
mon, sugarand butter. Placeon this a layer of the crumbs, 
alternating with the apple till dish is three-fourths full, 
leaving bread-crumbs on top. Add no water but cover 
tight and steam three-quarters of an hour in moderate 
oven when remove cover and quickly brown. Serve with 
milk or sweet sauce. 


APPLE SNOW BALLS 


Prepare squares of cloth as for individual boiled dump- 
lings and line with a layer of hot boiled rice. Place in the 
centre chopped, sliced or cored apple, if the last, filling 
ceritres with nuts. Tie the cloth well and bake or steam 
forty minutes. 

APPLE PONE 


See Indian Apple Pudding. 


APPLE CAKE 


Make as for Huckleberry Cake for luncheon or supper 
dish. 
INDIAN APPLE PUDDING 
Pare and core a dozen apples. Have ready a quart of 
milk heated and add a quart of Indian meal, mixing and 


36 FRUIT RECIPES 


cooking carefully a few minutes. Add salt to taste, a cup 
each of molasses and suet (chopped). Pour over the apples; 
place in baking-dish and bake two hours or boil (in pudding 
cloth) for three. 


APPLE AMBER 


Core, peel, and chop three-fourths pound of apples. Mix 
together four ounces of suet, two each of sugar and flour, 
and six of breadcrumbs. When chopped and mixed add 
a little nutmeg and grated lemon peel and two beaten eggs. 
Stir thoroughly and place in a well buttered mould with 
cloth tied tight over the top. Boil three hours. 


GERMAN APPLE CAKE (Simple) No. 1 
or Apfel Kuchen 

Add to one pint of the sponge for the usual light bread 
one-half cup each of sugar and shortening, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one cup of milk and enough flour to make a soft 
gough. Spread this half an inch thick in the baking- 
pan and on it place in rows thin, lengthwise slices of apples. 
Let this rise half an hour in a warm spot; sprinkle with one 
half cup of sugar and cinnamon mixed—also a few bits of 
butter—then bake. 


GERMAN APPLE CAKE No. 2 


This form of “‘kuchen’’ may be made with baking pow- 
der. Use a pint of flour in which have been sifted a half 
teaspoon of salt and one and a half of baking powder with 
a tablespoon of sugar. Rub through this two tablespoons 
of butter, and mix well with one beaten egg and enough 
milk to make a thick batter (three-fourths cup or more). 
Place in baking pan one inch thick and over the top place 
apples cut into eighths, in rows, sharp edges pressed into 
the dough. Sprinkle as above with cinnamon and sugar 
and bake in brisk oven. 


|THE APPLE 37 


GERMAN APPLE CAKE No. 3 


Into a pound and a quarter of sifted flour rub three- 
fourths pound of butter and roll out an inch thick. Have 
ready pared, cored, and sliced thin, (asin foregoing recipe) 
juicy apples mixed with one or two quinces and half a 
pound of raisins seeded. Sweeten well with brown sugar 
and add a little nutmeg with a wineglassful of rosewater 
or the juice and rind of two lemons. Place this mixed 
fruit on the pastry and fold over, then put in a baking 
pan which has been sprinkled with a little butter, cinna- 
mon, and sugar. Also on top sprinkle this and while 
baking add more. Bake two hours in moderate oven. 


DRIEDTAPPLE FRUIT CAKE 


Soak two cups of dried apples over night. In the morn- 
ing chop and simmer them, until dark, (red or brown), in 
two cups of Orleans molasses. Let cool and add one cup 
each of butter and milk, one half cup sugar, three cups of 
flour, two level teaspoons each of cinnamon, allspice, and 
cloves, three of baking powder, three eggs, and one-half 
pound of raisins. (Also, if liked, a cup of currants and a 
tablespoon of chopped citron.) Bake for two or two and 
a half hours in slow oven. 


APPLE SOLID 


Simmer one and one half pounds lump sugar with three 
pounds sliced apples and juice and grated rind of three 
lemons, until thick, when pour into a wetted mould till cold. 
Turn out and serve with cream. 


APPLE SNOW 


Apple Snow may be made in two ways, using either the 
cooked or uncooked apples. For the uncooked grate a 


38 FRUIT RECIPES 


medium-sized tart apple (peeled, grated, and set aside). - 
Whip stiff the white of one egg with a pinch’ of salt, then 
add, gradually, three tablespoons of sugar, beating well 
into the egg, alternating with the grated apple, a table- 
spoon at a time, till all the apple and sugar are used, then 
continue to whip until the ‘‘snow’’ has risen to at least a 
pint and a halfin quantity, for it will swell surprisingly. If 
the cooked apple is used, observe the same proportion, 
the white of one egg to the pulp of each apple. Chopped 
dates or nuts may be added or fresh, grated cocoanut. 
The ‘‘snow” may be served as it is, or quickly and lightly 
browned. 
APPLE CHEESE (Cake or Tart Filling) 


To a pound of sugar add one-fourth pint of water and one- 
half pound of apples—peeled, cored, and quartered—and the 
grated rind of one lemon. Cook for three hours then.add 
the juice of the lemon, boil for ten minutes, stirring con- 
tinually, then removing. Use this as a filling for tarts or 
cake or with nuts as sandwich filling. 


APPLE FILLING FOR CAKE 


Make as for Apple Snow, using one egg, one apple, and 
one cup of sugar. Also, for variety, the yolk of the egg 
may be added, the whole heated carefully till it thickens. 


APPLE FLOAT 


Make first a plain custard and when cold stirin it a 
pint either of apple sauce or a pint of grated apple (un- 
cooked). Whip in the stiff whites the last thing. 


JELLIED OR GELATINE APPLES 


To two quarts of tart apples, peeled, cored, and quartered, 
allow one half box of gelatine and put it to soak in one half 


THE APPLE 39 


cup of water. Make a syrup of a pint each of water and 
sugar, adding lemon juice, peel or flavoring, and a dusting of 
ginger. Let sugar dissolve then boil five minutes. Drop 
in the syrup the apples, three or four at a time, and let 
cook till tender but not broken. Dip out with skimmer 
and place on a platter. When all are cooked and removed 
put the softened gelatine in the syrup until quite dissolved 
then remove and stir till it begins to set. Wet a mould 
and place in it half the jelly, then the apples in a layer 
and the rest of the jelly over them, setting away to chill 
and harden. Serve with cream. 


CIDER JELLY 


To two pints of cider allow two full tablespoons of gela- 
tine, softening the gelatine in a little of the cold cider, 
heating the remainder to boiling point, adding a pound of 
sugar and then the softened gelatine. Strain and turn into 
a mould; cool and set onice. Serve with rich milk. 


APPLE CHARLOTTE 


Soften a half box of gelatine in a half cup of cold water 
then heat it over steam for a half hour. Grate two large, 
tart apples and one lemon or orange and beat lightly into 
a pint of whipped cream, then add the gelatine and when 
thoroughly mixed turn into a mould and set aside to cool 
before plaeing onice. Serve with rich milk or wine sauce. 


MERINGUED APPLES 


Prepare as for baking. When cold fill centres with 
marmalade, or marshmallows, then cover with meringue 
made in proportion of four eggs to one pound of sugar. 
Flavour with rose water or lemon extract and place in 
quick oven to lightly brown.. 


4o FRUIT RECIPES 


CODDLED APPLES 


For this use the earlier apples, wipe and lay in a kettle, 
to each half peck adding three-fourths pint of brown sugar 
and a half pint of water. Cover and simmer till tender 
and sugared through. 


SPICED APPLES 


To improve immature, insipid apples peel them thin and 
core, and to four pounds allow two pounds of sugar, one- 
quarter ounce each of nutmeg and cloves and one-half 
ounce stick cinnamon. Place the sugar and spices in a pint 
of vinegar and let come to a boil, when drop in the whole 
apples and cook carefully till tender enough to be pierced 
with a broom straw. Remove and pour the syrup over 
them. These may be served as a sauce or kept a long time 
in jars. (See also Sweet Apple Pickle.) 


APPLE CHUTNEY 


Chutney is as much used in India as we of other countries 
use other sauces and has as many variations as catsup, for 
instance. Apples are used as the foundation for several 
kinds of chutney. One of the simpler preparations requires 
five pounds of tart apples. These must be peeled, cored, 
and cooked smooth with two pounds of brown sugar and 
two quarts of cider vinegar. When thick as is catsup 
before diluting, place in a crock and add two pounds of 
chopped raisins, a small minced onion, one ounce each of 
white and black mustard seed (ground) and two of ground 
ginger, one tablespoon of salt, and two or three pods of red 
peppers minced. Mix and let stand over night (about 
ten hours), then stir again without cooking and place in 
small jars, sealing well. This will keep for years. 


THE APPLE 4I 


APPLE CATSUP 


Apple catsup is similar to apple butter, using as a foun- 
dation plain instead of cider apple sauce. Cook till 
thick, for each quart using a teaspoon each of ginger, cin- 
namon, cloves, pepper, mustard, onion extract, two of 
salt and a pint of vinegar. Simmer slowly till thick, 
(which may take an hour and a quarter), then bottle and 


seal while hot. 
APPLE BUTTER 


Use only very tart apples, washing and placing in kettle 
with a quart of cider to each pailful of fruit. Simmer down 
till of a very thick, smooth consistency and add just a little 


spice, to taste. 
SWEET APPLE PICKLE 


Add a teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice 
(in thin cloth bag) to a syrup made with a quart of vinegar 
and three pounds of sugar. Have ready four pounds of 
apples pared, cored, and halved. Place carefully in the 
syrup, simmer till tender, and place in heated jars. Cook 
down the syrup till thick, when pour over fruit, filling up 
well, and seal. ; 

APPLE JELLY No. 1 


Take sour fruit, Do not core or pare, merely wash, wipe, 
and cut out blemishes. Cut up, pour over sufficient water 
to cover, and simmer till very soft, when drain through 
flannel bag, letting drip over night. To each quart of 
syrup the juice of a lemon or other tart fruit may be allowed 
as further flavouring if liked. Cook down the juice, skim- 
ming well before adding sugar (heated), a pound for each 
pint of juice. Simmer till sugar has dissolved; then boul, 
and the jelly will form in about twenty minutes. Rose 
geranium, mint, or other leaves may be used as flavouring, 
or orange blossoms preserved. 


42 FRUIT RECIPES 


APPLE JELLY No. z (With Quince) 
See Quince Jelly No. 3, 


APPLE AND CURRANT JELLY 
See Currants. 
CRAB APPLE JELLY No. 1 


Make as for Apple Jelly, using a little more water. Do 
not pare or core the crab apples. 


CRAB APPLE JELLY No. 2 


Wash and wipe the apples; cut in half and place in crock 
on the back of the stove or the oven, setting in another 
vessel of hot water if there is danger of too great heat. 
When the apples are soft place in jelly bag to drain over 
night. Measure this juice and allow one pint of sugar to one 
of juice. Boil and skim the juice ten minutes before adding 
the heated sugar. Stir till dissolved, then boil eight or ten 
minutes. This makes a very tart jelly, stronger than 
many people like. Mint may be used to flavour this to serve 
with mutton or lamb. 


CRAB APPLE JELLY No. 3 


Use half and half of crab apples and Maiden’s Blush 
apples, and make as for apple jelly. Or substitute for the 
Maiden’s Blush black- or huckle- or raspberries, cherries, 
or pineapple juice. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY No. 4 

See Plum Jelly No. 2. Or for the wild plum substitute 

wild grape. 
CRAB APPLE JELLY No. 5 
Use equal parts of crab apples and Maiden’s Blush, and 


allow for each quart or pound of the cut fruit the juice 
and thin-peeled rind of one lemon. Proceed as above. 


THE APPLE 43 


Cassia buds and cinnamon is an old-fashioned variation of 
flavouring, or ginger root, which by some is considered 
excellent with crab apple. Use one or two sticks and one or 
two buds or one ounce ginger to each quart of juice; sim- 
mer twenty minutes, skimming, before adding sugar. 


APPLE PRESERVES 


Pare and core eight pounds tart apples. Make a syrup 
of eight pounds of sugar to one quart of. soft water and 
dissolve one teaspoon citric acid crystals in this. Heat 
carefully and when clear and thick place in the syrup the 
apples, turning often that the syrup may cover them, 
letting remain till fruit is translucent. Place them on a 
hotter part of the fire till at boiling point, when remove the 
fruit (whole) and place carefully in heated jars. Fill up 
with the syrup, place a round of cotton soaked in brandy 
on top of each, seal covers, and put in cool place. 

For simple canning much less sugar may be used and 
pineapples may be added in one third or equal proportion, 
or barberries. 


APPLES PRESERVED WITH QUINCES 
See Quinces preserved with Apples. 


APPLES PRESERVED IN GRAPE JUICE 
For apples or crab apples see Grape Juice for preserving. 


APPLES AND CRAB APPLES PRESERVED IN CIDER 


To each quart of boiled cider add three-fourths pint of 
sugar (or less as taste indicates). Use this as the preserv- 
ing syrup, proceeding as with preserved apples. 


CRAB APPLE PRESERVE 


Parboil the crab apples, preparing them by coring the 
unpeeled larger ones and leaving the smaller ones as they 


44 FRUIT RECIPES 


are, stems, cores, and skin. Place the parboiled’ fruit 
in syrup prepared for apple preserves. Cook carefully 
a few minutes that the fruit may not fall to pieces. Pro- 
ceed as with apple preserves. A little lemon or ginger 
flavouring will be an improvement or one-third part of 
orange, pineapple, barberry, or almost any berry or citrus 


preserve. 
CRAB APPLE MARMALADE 


Cook crab apples and sweet or wild plums separately 
till soft, when rub through colander and measure. To 
each three quarts of crab apple allow one quart of the 
plum. Mix and weigh and allow one pound sugar to each 
of fruit. Cook slowly and very carefully, that this may 
not burn, till smooth and thick. Place in marmalade pots 
and when cold seal as for jelly. 

Crab apple and apple, or crabs and quinces may be used 
together for marmalade or any of the berries, citrus, or 
other distinctively flavoured fruits. They may be put up 
at different seasons and combined later. 


APPLE AND QUINCE MARMALADE 


See Quince Marmalade No. 2. 


APPLE AND BLACK CURRANT MARMALADE 


Use equal parts of currants and apples, cooking separ- 
ately, when soft putting through colander and mixing 
pulp. Cook the pulp and juice (strained off) till thick, 
when add equal weight of sugar and cook till of desired 
consistency. 


LEMON AND APPLE MARMALADE 


See Lemon Marmalade. Cook the lemon and apple 
separately and allow equal parts of lemon and apple. 


THE APPLE 45 


APPLE JAM 


Pare, core, and weigh tart apples, allowing for four 
pounds of apples four pounds of brown sugar. Chop apples, 
meantime making a syrup of the sugar with as little water 
as can be used; add apples, the grated peel of four lemons, 
and a little ginger root. Simmer till the fruit pulp is 
translucent and golden in colour, when place in small jars. 

- Loaf sugar may be used, the lemon and ginger omitted, 
and the pulp cooked longer. 


TO MAKE CIDER 


It is generally reckoned that the richest cider is made 
from the sweetest apples. As it comes from the press 
pour it into a tub prepared by boring a hole in the bottom 
(the plug put in very loosely), and filled with alternate 
layers of charcoal and gravel. As fast as it filters through 
put it in a clean “‘white oak’’-cask in a cool cellar andlet 
remain open till fermentation has ceased, then bung tight. 


TO KEEP CIDER SWEET 


No. 1. A handful of hops boiled with a little treacle or 
‘honey and added to the acetified cider will assist in 
keeping it sweet. 

No. 2. For each barrel allow eight kitchen table spoon- 
fuls of white mustard seed. Pour in with the cider. 

No. 3. If made after freezing time cider may be kept 
sweet (if it is free from water) by being kept in a tem- 
perature just above freezing point. It may be boiled 
down one-fourth after making, which will be an additional 
safeguard against any change in it. 


BOILED CIDER 


Boil down till thick as molasses, then bottle. To serve 
it dilute with charged (carbonated) water ice cold, or hot 
water, spiced. 


46 FRUIT RECIPES 


CIDER VINEGAR 


Pour half as much water on the pulp remaining after 
squeezing out the cider as there was of the juice. Let it 
ferment then press out the pulp and barrel the liquid. 

Or, as apples are used in the kitchen, boil the skins and 
cores in as little water as possible, sweeten with a little 
molasses, and let ferment. 

Apples which are not keeping well may be boiled and 
the liquor strained off, a little molasses added, and let fer- 
ment. With crab-apples reduce the pressed juice one- 
third, then treat as above. 


TO DRY APPLES, ALSO TO PACK 


Extremely acid fruit is best for retaining flavour when 
dried. Cut in slices, string or merely place on shallow 
trays, drying in fruit-dryer, in cool oven or sun. If dried 
in the sun, heat over steam before putting away to destroy 
any possible insect eggs, and while. drying cover with 
mosquito nettingto protectfrom insects. In packing apples 
away for winter keeping or shipping, if elder blossoms 
are placed between layers a delicate flavour is given. 


CIDER EGG NOG 


To one egg whipped, then slightly sweetened with sugar, 
allow one glass of cider. Sprinkle with grated nutmeg and 
serve with shaved ice. Or serve hot. 


APPLE WATER—“A CoolingDrink in Fevers” 


Pare and core three large juicy pippins and slice them 
into a pitcher or crock with the grated rind of a lemon. 
On this pour one pint of boiling water, then cover close and 
let stand four hours. Strain and sweeten with loaf sugar. 


THE APPLE 47 
APPLE TEA 


Roast very tart apples and pour over them boiling water, 
letting stand till the water is cold. This may be sweetened 
a little if sugar is permitted. 


APPLE BRANDY, OR POMONA WINE 


To six gallons of new cider add one gallon of brandy 
and let stand from eight months to a year before racking 
off. To make Apple Jack or Cider Brandy distill the cider 
alone. 

CRAB-APPLE CHAMPAGNE 


Crush fruit as for apple cider and proceed as for cider 
making, but let the verjuice (or crab-apple juice) stand 
without the mustard seed or other means for keeping it 
from getting ‘‘hard.’’ At the end of two or three years 
the verjuice has become very similar to champagne. 


APPLE WATER ICES 


These may be made by more than one method. Simmer 
till tender a quart of apples, pared and cored; when cold 
put through a sieve. Have ready a syrup made according 
to Introductory Recipes, using one and a half pints; mix- 
ing with the strained apple and juice of two lemons. 
Freeze. Or the apple may be added to plain cider instead 
of to a syrup or the cider itself frozen, flavouring as liked. 

Preserved or stewed apples may be frozen by packing 
in salt and ice five or six hours, or apple sauce, thick and 
flavoured with lemon or sherry, may be frozen. The sauce 
may be thinned as first directed and a softened tablespoon 
of gelatine added just as the apples are removed from the 
fire, stirring it till dissolved. This gives the mousse 
effect. 


48 FRUIT RECIPES 


BAKED APPLE ICE CREAM 


Pare, core, and quarter ten tart apples, baking with 
sugar and lemon or spice (see Baked Apples). When cold 
add one quart rich milk and cream, scalded and cooled, 
and freeze. 


FROZEN APPLE CUSTARD 
Make the custard as for Apple Custard Pie, using either 
one pint of apple sauce or one pint of grated apple, and 
whipping in the stiff whites of the eggs after the custard 
is partially frozen. 


FROZEN APPLE SNOW 


Make as for Apple Snow, adding for each pint of snow 
one pint of mixed milk and cream and a trifle more sugar. 


CHAPTER II 
THE PEAR (Pyrus communis: Malacee) 


HE Pyrus communis, or common pear, ranks close to 
the apple in point of family, of abundance, lati- 
tudinal range and general utility. The wild pear grows 
throughout Europe and Asia, its branches thorny; its small, 
hard fruit not considered edible. But from very early 
times the bristling little wild tree or bushy shrub has 
taken kindly to cultivation. The Greeks and Romans 
seem to have availed themselves of this susceptibility and 
the legions of the latter introduced the pear into Britain. 
Whether grafted on quince, the mountain ash (the rowan), 
or wild pear stock, it flourished and now the vast majority 
of pears do not deserve the epithet “insipid’’ even yet 
not infrequently applied by the thoughtless who judge all 
by the few exceptions or by those pears intended by na- 
ture for cooking only. : 
There are stores of riches in the grape sugar contained 
in this fruit, in its proportion of iron, in its moderate per 
cent. of malic, tannic, and tartaric acids, its albumen, lime, 
pectin, mucilage, and its relatively large proportion of 
potash and phosphoric acid and toothsome juiciness, the 
quantity and pure quality of which last ‘distilled water,” 
should tempt one to make up for the water one should but 
which one does not drink copiously enough in simple form. 
Such general mildness of tonic properties agrees with al- 
most any type of stomach and the laxative quality has a 
properly stimulating effect upon the intestines. 
The pear may be used in almost as many forms and in 


49 


50 FRUIT RECIPES 


very much the same manner as the apple (see ‘‘The 
Apple” for all desired recipes not found under ‘‘The Pear,” 
or adapt to other fruit recipes). 


RECIPES 


_ PERRY 

Perry bears the same relation to pears that cider does to 
apples, being the expressed juice of the fruit. Perry may 
be made from the ordinary pear, the better ones of the 
windfalls or unsalable ‘‘nubbins,’”’ but there are certain 
varieties known in general as ‘“‘perry’’ pears, grown 
especially for this purpose. These varieties lack in fra- 
grance and edible qualities, being vigorously harsh, but 
they are much prized in Germany, France, and England, 
where numerous perry orchards are set out. The fer- 
mented perry is considered superior to cider in richness 
and sweetness. It contains 7 per cent. of alcohol 
(Ené. Brit.) and will keep in casks for three years—when 
bottled, longer, but it does not bear shipment as well 
as might be desired. 


TO DRY AND PACK PEARS 

Where winter pears (or those which may be laid by to 
mellow as late as spring) are not to be had in quantity, 
pears may be dried in the sun or a slow oven with the same 
success as are apples. This is a common practice in parts 
of Europe where pear tarts, stewed pears, and other dishes 
are concocted from the dried fruit and thoroughly relished. 
In packing pears place between layers of elder blossoms 
to add flavour. 


PEARS UNCOOKED 
A Breakfast or Supper Dish 
To vary the serving of pears au naturel, pare, core, and 
slice mellow, well-flavoured fruit, using a silver knife. 


THE PEAR st 


Sprinkle the slices with sugar; chill well, then serve with 
cream and brown bread and butter: a substantial and 
dainty meal. 


PYRAMID OF PEARS 


Pears sliced, sugared, with a little lemon or orange juice, 
or sherry, added, or pears which are so prepared and then 
crushed may be heaped in layers, alternating with whipped 
cream, and sprinkled with candied cherries or angelica. 


STEWED PEARS 


Take small, acid pears and wipe, leaving stems and skins 
as they are or halving if of larger size. To two quarts of 
pears allow one pint of maple sugar and one-fourth pint 
of water. Place all in a kettle at once and cook till tender. 
White sugar and lemon peel (in strips or grated) may be 
substituted. 


BAKED PEARS—STUFFED OR MERINGUED 


Pare and core large pears; stuff with seeded dates, 
raisins, or chopped nuts, with some tart marmalade of other 
fruit, or shredded cocoanut; place close together in a 
dish or pan and bake slowly till tender, without sugar and 
only enough moisture to prevent burning. When done 
place in a heated glass dish and serve, cold, or pour over 
them a simple custard or melted marshmallows. 

For the Meringued Pears bake the fruit with a little 
lemon peel or candied ginger in the centres and when ten- 
der place over them a meringue made with the whites of 
three eggs and half cup of sugar. Brown quickly and serve: 
with rich milk. 


PEAR BREAD PUDDING 


Slice and stew the pears in a syrup made with a pint 
each of sugar and water, adding the juice of a lemon, then 


52 FRUIT RECIPES 


place half of this in a pudding dish. Have ready a pint 
of bread crumbs mixed with a tablespoon of butter, half 
a cup of sugar,a cup of warm water, and, lastly, the whipped 
whites of two eggs. Place this on the pears in the dish, 
pouring over the top the rest of the fruit. Grate a little 
nutmeg over this; sprinkle a tablespoonful of crumbs 
on top with a little sugar and bake, covered, an hour and 
a quarter. Remove cover and brown the last few minutes. 
Serve with a sweet or tart sauce as preferred. 


COMPOTE OF PEARS 


Stew pears in a syrup as above, paring and coring, but 
leaving them whole unless very large, when they may be 
halved. Put them in the dish from which they are to be 
served and over them spread a lemon gelatine or some 
delicate jelly of pure fruit in place of the gelatine. The 
syrup should meantime be cooked down till thick, then 
poured over the fruit and jelly. Chill and serve. 


PEAR TRIFLE 


Cook pears as for Pear Bread Pudding and fill baking 
dish with layers of sponge cake sprinkled with cocoanut, 
then the pears, etc., pouring over the whole the yolks of 
three eggs whipped with a half cup of sugar. Bake till 
brown, then add a meringue of the whites of the eggs; re- 
place in oven till well coloured and serve when cold. 


PEAR ICES 


These may be made with fresh fruit if it is very mellow 
and juicy, when it may easily be put through a colander 
or coarse sieve, or the fruit, stewed in syrup and put through 
a sieve can be used, letting cool and adding the juice of 
a lemon or a little wine. Sweet apple cider, grape juice, or 
perry may be used instead of the syrup with uncooked, 


THE PEAR 53 


mashed pears. The addition of the whipped whites of eggs, 
when the fruit is partly frozen, will make the ordinary 
sherbert. Large pears may be hollowed out and the ice 
served from these instead of from dishes or glasses. A 
cream may be made with the ice cream or custard founda- 
tion given in the Introductory Recipes, adding stewed, 
mashed, or spiced pears. 


PRESERVED PEARS 


Select small pears and peel, leaving on the stems. To 
one pound of pears allow a pound of sugar, and to each four 
pounds of sugar allow one pint of water and one teaspoon- 
ful citric acid crystals (dissolved). Melt the sugar and 
acid over steam; let boil a minute after this, then set back 
and keep hot till needed. Meantime boil the pears with 
just enough water to cover. Acidulate the latter well with 
citric acid. When tender remove and place in the syrup 
for half an hour; place the fruit in hot jars and seal at once. 
Keep in a cool, dark, dry place. 


PEARS PRESERVED IN PERRY 
See Apples Preserved in Cider. 


PEARS PRESERVED IN GRAPE JUICE 
See Grapes. 


BRANDIED PEARS 


To four pounds each of peeled fruit and sugar take a 
pint of brandy. Cook the sugar with a quart of water, 
simmering two minutes after coming to a boil. Place 
fruit in this and let boil five minutes. Remove the pears, 
placing in heated jars; let syrup boil till it thickens, then 
add the brandy and remove at once from the fire. Pour 
syrup over fruit and seal. Drain off any syrup which may 


54 FRUIT RECIPES 


ooze from the pears when they are first taken from the 
fire. If the pears are allowed to lie in brandy over night 
after being cooked they are more certain to keep well. (See 
also other brandied fruits.) 


PEARS PRESERVED WITH GINGER OR LEMON 


Peel and quarter pears, weigh and allow a quarter pound 
of green ginger (scraped) to each pound of fruit. Have 
a syrup prepared as for preserves and in this lay the pears 
and ginger, proceeding as with the preserves. Lemon 
peel may be used instead of ginger. 


BAKED PRESERVED PEARS 


Any small, hard pears may be baked for preserving 
with the best results. Place in layers in a crock with some 
lemon peel; cover with water and molasses, half and half; 
set on the back of the stove all night and bake all next day 
in a slow oven. Longer cooking will not impair but im- 
prove if done slowly enough. The fruit will become dark 
red in colour. Cook down the syrup; pour over the 
pears when done and the fruit has been placed in heated 
jars. 


PEAR MARMALADE 


To each pound of rather juicy pears, peeled and cored, 
allow one and a half pounds of sugar with the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon or orange, or one-third part of some 
tart berry-marmalade or fruit-juice. Cook down as for 
other marmalades, skimming and stirring often. 


THE PEAR 55 


RAISINEE 


For this French preserve, sometimes called Grape and 
Pear ‘‘butter,’’ see Grapes. 


PEAR JELLY 


Pear jelly may be successfully made by using the richer 
varieties of pears not fully ripe, with the usual proportion 
of sugar and juice: pound for pint (see other fruit 
jellies), and flavoured as for apple. 


PEAR CHIPS 


Wipe and stem hard pears. To four pounds allow three 
pounds of sugar, and an eighth pound scraped green gin- 
ger root grated. Slice thin in bits and let stand twelve 
hours, then cook with juice and rind of two lemons, let- 
ting come slowly to a boil and cooking perhaps three hours: 
till clear and thick. 


PICKLED PEARS 


To each six pounds of pears allow a pint of cider- or wine- 
vinegar, three pounds of sugar, and a teaspoon each of 
cinnamon, cloves, and ginger (in thin bags). Let the sugar, 
vinegar, and spices boil up and place in the resulting syrup 
the peeled pears, a few at a time. Cook until tender; 
place pears in a crock; pour over them the vinegar and let 
stand three days. Pour off the syrup and boil it down, 
then pour again over the pears (having placed them in 
jars); remove spice-bag, and seal. If tartness is desired 
the sugar, part or all, may be omitted. 


PEAR SAUCE, PLAIN OR FOR SHORT CAKE 


Make as for Apple Sauce, flavouring with spice, lemon, or 
other fruit flavouring, and serving as a side dish or with 
shortcake (see Strawberry Short Cake). 


56 FRUIT RECIPES 


PEAR VINEGAR 


The water in which pears have been boiled for preserves 
may be used for vinegar or vinegar may be made from 
crushed pears as from apples at cider-making time. Or 
pears may be cut, boiled, and crushed and the resulting 
liquor sweetened with molasses and allowed to ferment. 


CHAPTER III 
THE QUINCE (Cydonia cydonia: Malacee) 


HE Quince, or Cydonia, is a near relative of the apple 
and pear, sometimes in form resembling one, some- 
times the other, according to variety. Its history is as 
fragrant as the fruit itself, which among the ancient Greeks 
was typical of happiness and love, and bears about it a 
still more ancient suggestion, through the old Hebrew 
writers: that it was the forbidden fruit. And surely no 
fruit was ever more tempting in perfume; more dis- 
appointing in reality before cookery creates chemical 
change. (The Japanese Quince [Cydonia Japonica] 
is not a general cooking fruit.) The quince is native to 
Greece and is now known almost as widely as the apple 
and pear. Its name was bestowed upon it, it is said, in 
the days when flourished the ancient city of Cydonia 
in Crete. 

As an adjunct to or basis of preserves, and as a cordial or 
unfermented drink, made as is cider, the quince is a food 
success and the mucilage which surrounds its seeds is con- 
sidered of value in several ways, one of its uses being as a 
cure for sore throat, or applied, externally, to other ir- 
ritated surfaces. 


RECIPES 


QUINCE CIDER 


Make as for Apple Cider. 
57 


58 FRUIT RECIPES 


QUINCE JELLY No.1 


When quince preserves are made the parings and cores 
may be used for jelly, covering them with cold water and 
cooking slowly three hours or longer. Strain through a 
jelly bag over night; boil and skim juice in the morning 
for fifteen minutes then strain again, measuring and plac- 
ing in clean cooking vessel with three-fourths its weight 
of heated sugar. Cook twenty minutes or till it jells. 
Vary the flavouring used with quince as with apple. 


QUINCE JELLY No. 2 


Quince jelly may be made with the whole fruit, when 
the juice is strained allowing the usual proportion of a 
pound of sugar to a pint of juice. Lemon may be used 
with this as variety. 


QUINCE JELLY No. 3 


Use equal quantity of quinces and Maiden’s Blush 
apples, adding sugar in proportion of three-fourths pound 
of sugar to a pint of juice. 


QUINCE MARMALADE Nos. 1 and 2 


Slice unpeeled quinces, barely covering with water, 
and cooking till tendér. Press through sieve and replace 
on stove, allowing one pound and a quarter to each pound 
of quince pulp. Cook slowly and carefully, stirring fre- 
quently, till stifi. Pieplant may be cooked with this 
marmalade for a pleasant tart tone. 


QUINCE MARMALADE No. 3 
Apple and Quince 
Use equal parts of Maiden’s Blush apple and quince, 
proceeding as above, allowing but one pound of sugar to 
each pound of pulp. 


THE QUINCE 59 


QUINCE MARMALADE Nos. 4, 5, 6, and 7 


Use equal parts of quince and crabapple, proceeding 
as in Marmalade No. 2, or substitute for the crab freshened 
figs, or dates, or pineapple marmalade. 


QUINCE MARMALADE No. 8 
Lemon or Ginger 
Make as for Marmalade No. 1, using lemon peel and 
juice, one lemon to each pint of pulp. Ginger may be 
added or substituted for the lemon. 


PRESERVED QUINCES 


Quinces may be preserved whole, halved, quartered, or 
sliced across in rings. Cook the fruit till tender in water 
acidulated with citric acid, then place in a syrup made 
with one part of water to three of sugar. When at boiling 
point let remain one minute if cut; if whole, for five or 
six minutes, then fill jars and seal at once. This may be 
varied with apples, as below, or by other fruits as with 
Quince Marmalade. 


QUINCES PRESERVED WITH APPLES 


Make the preserves as above and allow one-third weight 
of sweet apples. When the quince has been cooked tender 
and removed put the apple in the syrup and simmer till 
translucent and red, which may take an hour. Place 
apple and quince in alternate layers in the jars and when 
the syrup has penetrated the apple it will not be distin- 
guishable from the quince. No more sugar is necessary 
by the addition of the apples. 


CANNED QUINCES 


Weigh the fruit after paring, coring, and quartering, 
allowing six ounces of sugar and nearly a pint of water 


60 FRUIT RECIPES 


to each pound of fruit. Steam fruit till tender when 
‘place in heated jars. Meantime have the syrup boiling 
five minutes and pour over the fruit. Let stand in the hot 
water bath in oven or on top the stove for thirty minutes, 
then fill up with syrup and seal. 


CANDIED QUINCE SLICES 


Core and slice thin the quinces and weigh, setting aside 
the same weight of sugar. Scald the slices then boil hard 
for eight minutes; strain and remove to a kettle containing 
the sugar and two tablespoons of water and set in the oven 
to melt slowly, letting gently cook till translucent and a 
deep red. Carefully remove the pieces and drain, when 
dry placing on plates with a layer of sugar above and below. 
Let stand in dry place ten hours or more; sift over them 
more sugar and pack away. 


DRIED QUINCES 


Pare and slice the fruit; string and dry or spread to dry 
as for apples and pears. When needed for use wash and 
soak them over night, putting on to stew in the last water. 


QUINCE CORDIAL 


To secure the juice from the quinces slice and chop in 
a vegetable cutter or grate. Allow a pound of sugar for 
each quart of juice, a handful of bruised plum or peach 
pits, two or three cloves, grated peel of half a lemon, and 
one-half pint of brandy. Let stand in a jug loosely 
stopped for nearly three weeks when filter, bottle, and seal. 


PRESERVED QUINCE JUICE AND 
PRESERVED QUINCE SYRUP 


See Cherry Juice and Syrup Preserved. 


THE QUINCE 61 


QUINCE HONEY No. 1 (Cake or Tart Filling) 


This will make filling for layer cake, or, thinned, a deli- 
cate syrup for sauces, etc. Grate two large quinces and 
cook till tender. Add a pound of sugar to a pint of water, 
cooking till the “‘soft ball’’ stage is reached when add the 
quince and simmer twenty minutes longer, stirring most of 
the time. For tarts use this with a custard. 


QUINCE HONEY No. 2 (Syrup for Pancakes or Puddings) 


Prepare quinces as above, using two pints of sugar to 
one pint of water and simmer till the syrup is clear—four 
or five minutes—when add the grated quince and boil 
six or seven minutes more before removing from the fire. 


BAKED OR STEAMED _QUINCES 
Quinces make an attractive dessert baked or steamed, 
using the same method as for apples and pears. Grate 
them for variation. 
QUINCE SAUCE 
Stew quinces and flavour with lemon and serve, pulped 


or quartered, as for apple sauce. Half apple may be used 
instead of all quince. 


QUINCE TARTS 


Tarts may be filled with quince marmalade, honey, 
custard, sauce, or preserves, or the baked or steamed fruit. 
Vary them ‘as are apple, gooseberry, and other tarts, using 
meringue and candied fruits or whipped cream or lattice 
pastry strips for the large tarts; nuts may be sprinkled 
over the small ones or tartlets. 


QUINCE ICES 


Make as for pear and apple ices, custard, cream, etc., 
using the quince cordial sometimes to vary the flavour, 


62 FRUIT RECIPES 


IN SALADS 


The quince cordial or juice, freshly expressed, may be 
used to flavour the dressing, or the candied quince slices 
chopped and mixed with other fruits or vegetables. 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS 


Quince tapioca and other lighter forms of desserts, or 
fritters, dumplings, etc., may be made with the quince 
with excellent results. See Introductory and other 
fruit recipes. 


CHAPTER IV ' 


THE MEDLAR AND THE LOQUAT 
(Mespilus) 


HE medlar, Mespilus Germanica, like the apple, pear, 
and quince, belongs to the Malacee, but differs from 
them all in being not edible until well past the mature stage. 
In appearance and general characteristics it more nearly 
resembles the plum than any other fruit, and the loquat, 
its cousin, the Mespilus Japonica (Photinia or Eryiobotrya 
Japonica), is commonly, though erroneously, called the 
“Japan Plum.’’ The latter tree is evergreen and very hand- 
some at all seasons. The fruit pulp is delicate and tender 
in consistency but until fully ripe is tart in tone. The 
pits, which are rather large in proportion to the fruit, are 
of a beautiful golden brown hue and as highly polished as 
if coated with shellac. The seeds resemble the peach pit 
in flavour but are more delicate. The yellow clusters of 
loquats, like enlarged, elongated drops of pale gold (though 
sometimes rounded and gooseberry like) need to be well 
rubbed with a soft cloth to remove the downy ‘‘fuzz”’ 
when the fruit is to be served uncooked. 

The peeled, seeded fruit, quartered, is an excellent ad- 
dition to iced drinks. The juice of the uncooked fruit 
makes delicious loquatade, and a syrup may be made from 
it for bottling (see Fruit Syrups in Introductory Recipes). 
Almost any recipe for Northern or Southern fruits may be 
adapted for the preparation of the loquat, including the’ 
ices. 

63 


64 FRUIT RECIPES 


RECIPES 


LOQUATS STEWED 


Loquats may be stewed when but half ripe, or when 
fully mature, or half and half. Rub off the fuzz; remove 
stems and seeds, or merely wipe off the fuzz and stew 
whole, and put over a moderate fire with just a little water. 
When partially tender sugar to taste and finish cooking. 


LOQUAT JELLY 


Preferably gather the loquats when full sized but still 
hard and only partially turned in colour. Wash and re- 
move blossom ends. Place on fire in cold water, barely 
covering with water, cooking slowly as with other fruits for 
jellies, till the pulp is very soft and the juice entirely free. 
Drain; cook down till juice is thick and cherry-coloured, 
when add heated sugar, pint for pint, gradually. When 
sugar is thoroughly dissolved cook fifteen minutes, or till 
it jells. The loquat makes a very beautiful, light-coloured, 
tart jelly, firm but exceedingly tender and delicate, re- 
sembling tart apple more than any other jelly. 


LOQUAT MARMALADE 


The fruit pulp left from the jelly may be put through a 
sieve and cooked down with equal quantity of sugar till of 
the right consistency. 


LOQUAT JAM 


Loquat jam, when made with the unripe fruit, as 
for jelly, closely resembles the cherry in colour and is not 
unlike it in flavour though with an individuality of its 
own—perhaps richer, as well as being in fragrance and 
flavour rather aromatic. Both the marmalade and jam 


THE MEDLAR AND THE LOQUAT 65 


ate prettier if made from the whole, fresh fruit instead of 
from the jelly pulp. For the jam wash and seed the fruit, 
removing the blossom end and any discolouration or im- 
perfection. Place over the fire, barely covering with cold 
water and cook slowly several hours till very tender and 
deep red in colour. No water will be needed in addition 
to that first placed on the fruit as its juiciness requires 
reducing rather than otherwise. When cooked down 
add sugar in equal measure and continue to cook down till 
of proper consistency—two hours or more, when as much 
as four or five quarts are used. The ripe loquats make 
a yellower jam, lacking the rich colour though of excellent 
flavour. 


CHAPTER V 


THE PEACH (Amygdalus Persica, or Prunus Persica) 
AND APRICOT (A. or P. Armeniaca) 


NOTHER great division of fruits is the Almond 
or Plum family, Amygdalacee, including the 
almond, peach, apricot, cherry, and plum. The peach 
is held by some to bea distinct genus, by others is variously 
classed with the almond and apricot and with the plum, 
adding interest to the mooted question of exact origin by 
the fact that Darwin held the peach to be an evolutionised 
form of the wild almond. Alphonse de Candolle has led 
the theorists claiming the distinct peach origin, with 
China as its probable earliest home: since in that country 
the peach has not-been found in varying forms (ap- 
proaching or departing from the almond) but instead, has 
never been unknown as a distinctive, individual fruit or 
tree. (The Chinese Peen-To peach, in form flattened 
like a tomato, is now grown to a considerable extent in 
parts of the semi-tropical states of North America.) The 
name Persica was given the peach from the supposition 
that it originated in Persia. It has claims upon beauty 
of complexion, unrivalled perhaps in the fruit kingdom, 
and in rich, luscious fragrance few fruits can equal it, 
being esteemed in almost every country of the world for 
its flavour and daintiness of texture. 
Peaches must be fully ripened and sound to be entirely 
wholesome uncooked but in this perfect stage have been 
66 


sUosvas [[@ }e oUIOSpULY pue WesIFI9AT 


FAL LVASOT GAUL LVASOT AHL AO SWOSSO'IA 


SPANISH CHERRIES 


THE PEACH AND APRICOT 67 


given to even typhoid patients with success when fruits 
as a rule are forbidden. Also, peaches have been found 
beneficial in serious cases of intestinal disorders among 
children and adults alike. The peculiar acids of this fruit 
are apparently fatal to germs of the dysentery type and 
Holbrook quotes a physician who wrote him that in the 
treatment of dysentery he much preferred ‘“‘ripe, sound 
fruit, peaches especially, to any medicine that can be sug- 
gested.”’ Fresh or stewed the fruit is laxative and re- 
frigerant. , 

The seeds and flowers of peaches are used in the manu- 
facture of a liqueur called Persico and the bruised pits give 
to almost any alcoholic liquor the flavour of Noyeau. The 
flowers were formerly steeped to be used as a tea for 
their laxative quality and it is also thought they exert 
“to a moderate extent, a sedative influence over the 
nervous system’? (U. §S. Dispensatory). Sometimes, 
according to the same authority, they have been given 
in infusion for “‘irritability of the bladder, sick stomach, 
and whooping-cough.” As for the blossoms, it should be 
remembered that they have been known to cause fatal 
cases of poisoning among children although in the hands 
of physicians they are safely used (as a vermifuge), and ‘‘a 
syrup prepared from them is considerably used in infantile 
cases, on the continent of Europe.’’ The leaves, when 
rubbed or steeped in hot water, give out a strong almond 
flavour greatly esteemed in many countries. From both 
the leaves and kernels, when distilled, is extracted oil, that 
from the kernels being frequently used as an adulterant 
of almond oil. 

The apricot is supposed to have originated in Armenia. 

The nectarine, once puzzling to botanists, is but a 
variation of the peach. (All recipes for peaches may be 
applied to nectarines and apricots.) 


68 FRUIT RECIPES 


RECIPES 


PEACHES HALVED (Uncooked) 


Select large freestones; drop into boiling water for two 
minutes, then into iced water, and the fruit will easily slip 
out of the skin. Halve the peaches; remove pits and 
place the fruit on ice. When ready to serve fill the cen- 
tres with powdered sugar, or sugar and melted marsh- 
mallows; join each two halves with short, fine, tooth- 
picks, and place in the serving dishes or glasses. Pass 
with them whipped cream. 


PEACH SALADS 


Peaches may be served half and half with bananas, or 
with almonds (one-fifth almonds), with celery and wal- 
nuts, or fine-chopped.apple or pear, with French dressing, 
simple, or flavoured with a cordial. 


PEACH SOUP No. 1 (Hot) 


Remove skins and pits from twelve ripe peaches and stew 
the fruit with two or three of the cracked kernels, a cup 
of sugar, and two teaspoons of sago, till tender and the 
sago clear. Rub through a sieve then return to the sauce- 
pan; add half as much claret.as there is juice just before 
serving. 

PEACH AND PRUNE SOUP 


See Prune Soup No.2. 


PEACH SOUP No. 2 (Cold) 


Pare, stone, and chop peaches. Sprinkle over them 
sugar in quantity desired and let stand an hour. To a 
pint of juice add one-third pint of claret; place in a jug 
and cover with ice one hour. Serve with shaved ice in 
glasses, 


THE PEACH AND APRICOT 69 


BAKED PEACHES 


Pare and place the whole fruit in baking-dish, using 
sugar generously if the fruit is tart. Add a few bits of 
butter and half a pint of hot water; sprinkle with chopped 
nuts and bake till tender. Serve cold. 


STEWED PEACHES 


See stewed apples and pears. 


PEACH SHORT CAKE 


Make and serveas for strawberry shortcake, slicing peaches 
rather fine, or pulping, and letting stand with sugar over 
them for an hour before using. 


PEACH SUET PUDDING OR_PONE 


Wash, then dry a pint of dried peaches and dredge with 
flour. Heata quart of milk and mix with a pint of Orleans 
molasses, then let cool. Add to this one-fourth pound 
chopped suet and four eggs beaten light, a teaspoon each 
of ginger and cinnamon, and a pinch of nutmeg. Add 
yellow Indian meal to make a thick batter and into this 
stir the peaches. Place in pudding cloth dipped in hot 
water then dredged with flour, leaving room to swell. Boil 
hard for five hours. (See Apple Pone.) Serve with hard 
sauce. This, like plum pudding, may be made the day 
before using. 

DUTCH PEACH CAKE 


Make as for German Apple Cake—No. 1, No. 2, No. 3. 


DUTCH FRUIT MOONS (With Peaches) 


Make a dough as for sweet shortcake, adding two eggs, 
or make with sponge. Roll out the dough half an inch 
thick and cut with large biscuit cutter. Drop on each a 


yo FRUIT RECIPES 


spoonful of peach jam or chopped, fresh peaches, and fold 
over, forming half circles or ‘‘half moons.”’ Pinch edges 
together and bake well. Any fruit may be substituted 
for peaches. 
PEACH FRITTERS 

Pare and halve peaches, sprinkle with sugar, and roll 
in powdered macaroons (or fine, stale cake crumbs) before 
placing in the frying kettle. When brown drain, roll in 
sugar, sprinkle with a few drops of maraschino, and serve 
oi PEACH TART No. 1 

Line a pie pan or baking-dish (bottom and sides or sides 
only) with a sweet, short biscuit dough and bake well. 
When brown fill with uncooked, sliced peaches; place 
lattice strips of the paste across the top and bake in a 
quick oven till the strips are brown. 


PEACH TART No. 2 


Line dish as above, baking brown; fill with peach sauce 
or the uncooked pulp; finish with the lattice work and brown 
quickly. 

PEACH TART No. 3 

Make as above, either method, substituting meringue 

or whipped cream for the lattice strips. 


PEACH TARTLETS 


Line (and bake) little tart shells; fill with peach mar- 
malade. 
PEACH COBBLER 
Peel ripe peaches, halve them, and fill a deep earthen 
baking-dish with them, leaving in a few of the pits to give 
flavour. Half fill the dish with ice water, sprinklesugar over 
the peaches, then place over them a sheet of light but thick 


THE PEACH AND APRICOT aX 


pastry. Pinch this down around the edge, slash the cen- 
tre crosswise, and prick well. Bake till brown, then serve 
hot or cold with cream. 


PEACH PIE 


With the old-fashioned pie the crust should be first 
partly baked, as for tarts, then the sliced fruit placed in 
it, a sprinkling of sugar, flour, and butter added, and the 
top cover put on, slashed, and the whole well baked. 
Tarts or cobbler are preferable. 


PEACH PAN DOWDY, OR PEACH SPIDER PIE 


Pare and slice the peaches and fill baking-dish (no under 
crust), sprinkling with sugar, butter,and cinnamon. Cover 
as for cobbler and bake slowly. When browned remove 
the crust whole. Place half the peaches on a platter; 
over them the crust upside down, then the rest of the 
fruit. Serve with cream. 


PEACH PUDDING 


Over a dish of pared, whole peaches sprinkle a cup and 
a half of sugar and let stand an hour. Drain off the juice 
and add to it a pint of sweet milk, four well beaten eggs, 
three-fourths cup of sugar,a tablespoon of butter, melted 
and rubbed smooth with half a cup of flour, and a little of 
the milk; add a pinch of salt. Pour over the peaches 
and bake till brown. This may also be made by first 
baking the peaches with a pint of water, draining off the 
juice and using as above. 


PEACH CUSTARD PUDDING 


Use large peaches, pare, and remove a slice across the 
tops; take pits out without breaking fruit; fill hollows with 


72 FRUIT RECIPES 


any chopped fruit, as apples or citron, angelica or raisins, 
adding also nuts if liked. Sprinkle with sugar and a 
little cinnamon or nutmeg. Make a custard with three 
beaten eggs and a cup each of flour and sugar. Pour this 
over the peaches and bake; or, cook the custard; cool; pour 
over the peaches and serve chilled. 


PEACH PUDDING STEAMED 


Mix well a cup of flour and two of breadcrumbs with 
half a cup of chopped nuts (almonds preferably). Stir 
in the yolks of three eggs, three-fourths cup of sugar, a 
little lemon juice, two heaping cups chopped peaches, and, 
last, the stiff whipped whites of the eggs. Place in but- 
tered mould and steam two hours. Serve with peaches 
pressed through a sieve and sweetened. 


PEACH BREAD PUDDING 
Make as for Apple Bread Pudding. 


PEACH BETTY 
Make as for Brown Betty (under Apples). 


SHERRIED PEACH PUDDING 


Line a dish with stale sponge cake dipped in sherry, and 
heap on this pared, halved peaches. Spread a meringue 
over the top and brown quickly by placing the pudding- 
dish in another which is partly filled with ice water. In 
this way the top will brown without heating the peaches. 


Serve with cream. 
PEACH KISSES 


Pare, halve, and remove pits of ten large peaches. Make 
a syrup of one pint sugar to half a pint of water and cook 
till it strings from the spoon. Dip the peaches (on a wire 


THE PEACH AND APRICOT 73 


spoon) into this then set them away to chill. Whip stiff 
the whites of. four or five eggs with five tablespoons of 
powdered sugar. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water 
and into this drop the meringue by spoonfuls, cooking for 
two minutes, removing with flat skimmer carefully to a 
plate from which these kisses can be placed in the centres 
of the peach halves. Sprinkle chopped almonds over them 
and set on ice. 


PEACH MOUSSE AND RUSSE 


To each cup of peach pulp (fresh or canned) allow 
a heaping teaspoon of gelatine (two cups of pulp make a 
generous quantity). Dissolve gelatine in one-third cup of 
cold water, then place over steam to dissolve, and strain 
into the peach pulp. Sweeten well, add a tablespoon of 
lemon juice and a little raspberry or strawberry syrup. 
Coat the lining of a fancy mould with a tablespoon of 
melted gelatine, then pour in the mousse, pack well, cover 
with ice, and freeze six hours. 

Make the Russe in similar manner but fold in at the 
last a pint of whipped cream and the grated rind of a lemon 
instead of the lemon juice. Use also a little almond 
flavouring. (These may be used as filling for a mould lined 
with vanilla ice cream.) 


PEACH SOUFFLE 


& 


Peel and rub seven or eight fully ripe peaches through 
a sieve; stir into them a cup of powdered sugar and the 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Whisk together for eight 
minutes. Set aside until the whites of six eggs are beaten 
stiff, then fold carefully into the peach and egg mixture; 
turn the whole into a soufflé dish, sprinkle with sugar, and 
bake in brisk oven six minutes. 


74 FRUIT RECIPES 


PEACH SNOW, OR PEACH FOAM 


Make as for Apple Snow. Either fresh or canned fruit 
may be used. Flavour the sugar and egg with almond or 
rose flavouring and have all of the ingredients ice cold be- 
fore mixing. Crush or pulp the fruit instead of grating. 


CREAM OF PEACH SHERBET 
Scald a quart of rich milk, dissolving in it a cup of sugar. 
Let simmer eight minutes, then cool, adding to it when 
cold a pint of peach pulp sweetened and flavoured. When 
half frozen add the whites of two eggs whipped, and com- 


plete the freezing. 
PEACH ICE 


Pare and slice peaches and let stand two hours covered 
with sugar, allowing a pint of sugar for each quart of 
peaches. Blanch and crack a handful of the pits and add 
to the peaches. After letting stand strain and to each half 
gallon of syrup allow a pint of water. Freeze. 


PEACH ICE CREAM : 


Pare, stone, and thoroughly mash ripened peaches, and 
sweeten well. To each quart allow a quart of cream and 
new milk in equal proportion, scalded. Cool and freeze, 
adding, when half frozen, a cup of milk in which a few of the 
bruised kernels have been simmered. 


FROZEN PEACHES 


For one can or one dozen large ripe peaches use two 
coffee cups of sugar and a pint of water. Break the peaches 
slightly, mix with the water and sugar, and let stand half 
an hour, stirring once in a while to dissolve the sugar. Then 
add the stiff-whipped whites of three eggs, place in mould 
and pack in salt and ice for six hours. 


THE PEACH AND APRICOT 75 


PEACHES DRIED No. 1 


Peel very ripe peaches, slice and string them in the sun, 
or dry on thin clean boards in oven or fruit dryer. Heat 
as for dried apples before packing away. 


PEACHES DRIED No. 2 


Peel and slice thin ripe fruit, spread on dishes, sprinkle 
over the slices granulated sugar, and set in moderate oven 
till the peaches are hot, when dry slowly in the sun or cool 
oven. 

Peaches may also be dried as are cherries with syrup. 


PEACH LEATHER 


Peel and crush very ripe peaches, spread on platters, and 
dry in slow oven. It will be like leather when thoroughly 
dried. Roll it up and put away in bags. When needed 
for use soak over night with just a little water and it should 
then be ready for using without stewing and without sugar. 


PEACH SAUCE PRESERVED 


Take thoroughly ripe fruit, pare, stone, and cook slowly 
an hour. Add sugar in proportion of three-fourths pound 
to each four pounds of peaches. For immediate table use 
it will not require long cooking, but for putting up it must 
become dark in colour and free of juice. Seal while hot. 


PEACH JAM, COOKED 


Prepare as for Sauce, using a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit,. It should be very stiff when done. Place 
in jars with brandy on top and seal well. 


PEACH JAM, UNCOOKED 


Pare and slice perfect, freestone peaches. Cover the 
_ bottom of a jar with either brown or powdered sugar and 


76 FRUIT RECIPES 


on this place a layer of the uncooked peaches. Alternate 
with the sugar till jar is full, packing down well, and leaving 
sugar on top. Place a layer of cotton wadding soaked in 
brandy on top; tie a paper over all securely and keep in a 
cool dry place. 

PEACH MARMALADE No. 1 


Pare and stone peaches, cutting pulp fine. Cook with 
a few of the cracked kernels over quick fire until soft, add 
then same weight of sugar, cook fifteen minutes longer, and 
place in jars. 
PEACH MARMALADE No. 2 


For each pound of pared, sliced fruit allow three-fourths 
pound of sugar. Mash well and place in crock in oven, 
covering and baking like beans for several hours. When 
cooked sufficiently to be jelly-like, remove and place in jars. 


PEACH JELLY 


Wash and slice but do not pare the fruit, using part un- 
ripe and part ripe fruit (the latter firm). Place in 
earthenware crock and set in moderate oven or on the back 
of the stove with neither sugar nor water, watching care- 
fully. Or the fruit may be set inside a second vessel con- 
taining hot water and let stand far back on the stove for 
twenty-four hours. The juice should by this be free and 
thick. Strain over night in cheese-cloth bag. Measure 
and use pound for pint of sugar and juice, heating separately 
before cooking together. When this juice has cooked 
down a little—skimming meanwhile—add sugar gradually 
and let boil up. If carefully made this will result in ex- 
cellent jelly. 

CANNED PEACHES 


See Canned Apples. 


THE PEACH AND APRICOT 77 


BRANDIED PEACHES 


See Brandied Pears. 


SPICED PEACHES 


Peaches may be spiced in either sweet or sour form as 
for apples and pears. 


PICKLED PEACHES 


For sufficient for a two-gallon jar use twenty-five pounds 
of peaches and twelve pounds of sugar. (Rub the fuzz from 
the peaches with crash.) In the preserving kettle place 
two and one half quarts of vinegar with a handful of stick 
cinnamon, gradually adding the sugar until all is dis- 
solved and boiling. Place the peaches, a few at a time, in 
this and when they are done skim them out and place in a 
stone jar. Boil down the syrup a little longer, then pour 
over the peaches and place a weight on them. In three 
days pour off the syrup and boil down till quite thick. 
The peaches will by this have shrunk so that they will 
easily go into a two gallon jar. Pour the thick syrup over 
them; place plate on top and tie down with heavy paper. 
Cloves may be used instead of cinnamon or a mixture of 
spices as liked. 

PEACH MANGOES 


Rub the fuzz off of large freestone peaches; cut in half 
and stone. Prepare a mixture of equal parts of white mus- 
tard, mace, nutmeg, ginger and celery seed and fill the peach 
cavities. Sew or tie halves together and fill with them a 
stone jar three-fourths full. They may be coloured by 
laying among them little bags containing turmeric. In 
early days they were also sometimes coloured with 
cochineal. Whole cloves may be added to the spice or 
pushed into the peaches themselves. Pour cold, strong 


78 FRUIT RECIPES 


vinegar over the fruit or, if to be kept in a warm climate, 
boil the vinegar, scalding the peaches; in either case seal- 
ing jars at once. 


PICKLED APRICOTS OR PEACHES 


Place the fruit in brine for a week, then remove, wipe, 
and place.in clean jar. Pour over them boiling vine- 
gar, (one gallon to eight pounds of fruit) in which 
has been boiled one-half ounce each of whole pepper, white 
mustard seed and cloves, and a fourth-ounce of sliced ginger. 
Add one teaspoon of salt. Let stand overnight. Re-heat 
vinegar and again pour over fruit. Repeat; add fresh to 
the spiced vinegar to fill up jars in which fruit is packed. 


PEACH BUTTER 


Pare, stone and crush very ripe peaches, and simmer 
in boiled cider which has been reduced to the thickness of 
molasses. To each gallon of the cider (after boiling) should 
be added a pound of sugar. To three quarts of the peach 
pulp allow a pint of the thick cider and sugar. This may 
be spiced if liked. 

PEACH CATSUP 


Steam the peaches whole and boil till reduced one-third. 
To each quart of fruit allow one pound of (loaf) sugar but 
do not add till juice has been boiled down one-third. Place 
in little bags (loosely) one teaspoon each of broken mace 
and whole pepper, two of cinnamon, and half a teaspoon of 
cloves. Put these on to boil with the vinegar with which 
the pulp and juice (after cooking down) must be thinned, 
removing before the fruit and sugar are added. 


PEACH CHUTNEY 


This requires much less vinegar than apple chutney 
and may be taken as a basis for chutney for other similar, 


THE PEACH AND APRICOT 19 


soft-pulped, juicy fruits. To four pounds of peaches 
(skins and pits removed) add one and one-fourth pints 
vinegar, and stew together till soft. Mix and pound to- 
gether a half pound each of white mustard seed, chopped 
onions, raisins, and sugar; one-fourth pound of scraped 
ginger root (green) and one-eighth pound each of garlic 
and red peppers (dried). When well mixed add to the 
peaches with three-fourths pint additional of vinegar. Cook 
slowly together fifteen minutes, then place in small jars. 


EXTRACTS OF PEACH AND NECTARINE 


To each pint of blanched peach pits add one quart of 
deodorised spirits. For the nectarine use one pint of nec- 
tarine pits and one half pint bruised peach pits and pour 
on them a quart of best deodorised spirits. Let stand 
indefinitely. 

PEACH OR APRICOT WINE No. 1 


Use nearly matured fruit and mash well. To each eight 
pounds of pulp allow one quart of water. Let it come to a 
boil then squeeze out the juice and to each gallon add two 
pounds loaf sugar. Ferment as for other wines, bottling 
when clear. 

PEACH OR APRICOT WINE No. 2 


Crack the pits of eight pounds of peaches and place in 
the bottom of a tub. Slice the peaches into two gallons 
of rain water, adding five pounds of loaf sugar, and boil 
together, skimming till no scum rises. Strain, pouring 
upon the kernels, stirring, then covering till cold. Place 
in this a slice of toast dipped in strong yeast and let all 
ferment, straining then into a cask and adding a bottle 
of sweet grape wine. Let stand six months then add an 
ounce each of gum arabic and powdered chalk (dissolved 
in a little of the wine heated slowly), being careful not to 


80 FRUIT RECIPES 


stir up the lees. At the end of a week this may be bottled 
and in eight months is ready for use. 


DOMESTIC PEACH BRANDY 


Make with two gallons French brandy to one gallon 
well flavoured peaches, skinned and mashed. Add to 
this the pits from a peck of the fruit and let stand two 
months, when filter and bottle. 


COMMERCIAL PEACH BRANDY 


Mash eighteen pounds of peaches, not removing pits, 
and cover with four and three-fourths gallons of 95 % 
alcohol and four gallons filtered water, letting stand 
twenty-four hours. After mashing, straining and filtering 
add two and one-half quarts of sugar syrup and colour 
with burnt sugar. 

CREME DE NOYEAU 


Pound together in a mortar one-fourth pound peach 
apricot, or bitter almond pits and pour over them one pint 
water and one-half gallon spirits of wine. Cork and 
stir and shake each day for eight days when add a syrup 
made of a pint of water to a pound of sugar. Strain off 
the kernels and let stand another week when bottle. 


PEACH VINEGAR 


Use peaches which are over-ripe. Mash and mix with 
water in such quantity that the latter is strongly flavoured. 
To each gallon of this add four ounces brown sugar and a 
dessertspoon of yeast. Set the cask in the sun to ferment 


CHAPTER VI 
THE CHERRY (Prunus cerasus: P. aviunt) 


HE common garden cherry, (Amygdalacee) the type 
of daintily gay, merrily modest beauty, of an in- 
spiring, sweet tartness in flavour and of graceful decision 
of form, is of the brave blitheness of hue generally first 
noticed by children, which fact, and this alone, is evidently 
answerable for the nursery song of ‘‘Cherries are ripe! 
Cherries are ripe! Give the baby some’’—since, though 
so attractive, cherries are very nearly the most unfit of 
all fruits for babies to eat! They have appealed to human- 
ity from time immemorial, from the subtly fragrant 
blossoms of far Japan which have influenced art itself, to 
the gayly dangling red clusters of fruit which have always 
tempted the appetite of small boys of the Occident. The 
cherry pie has long since been commemorated in the 
rhyme of the ‘‘charming Billy Boy,’’ whose sweetheart 
could ‘‘make a cherry pie quick as you can wink your eye,”’ 
while a recent coating of immortality has been applied by 
the present generation in ‘‘Cheer up: cherries are ripe!” 
And cherries have the actual material or physical element 
and power of cheering up certain kinds of depression, 
for, aside from from their unvarying cheerfulness of front 
which might well have a mental effect, this little fruit is 
considered almost a cure for some forms of bladder and 
kidney troubles and its “‘red badge of courage’’ is also the 
symbol of the remarkable tonic properties of the tree whose 
bark has become famous on the continent of North America 
as ‘‘bitters’’ and phosphates, etc. These bracing decoc- 
81 


82 FRUIT RECIPES 

tions, as well as the alcoholic, deluding ‘‘Cherry Bounce” 
are, in general, manufactured from the North American 
wild black cherry, Prunus serotina, and the American 
wild Choke Cherry, Prunus Virginiana, which has the 
power of ‘‘calming irritation and diminishing excitability— 
adapted theoretically to diseases in which debility of the 
stomach or of the system is united with general or local 
irritation’ (U. S. Dispensatory). 

The wild cherry of Europe and England, called 
in the latter country the ‘‘gean,” is a source of valued 
food supplies to German and French country folk. Bran- 
dies, jellies, and other drinks or dishes are made from this 
cherry, and from all varieties beverages, chiefly alcoholic, 
are distilled. Of the latter Maraschino and Kirschwasser 
are the best known though a kind of Ratafia is also made 
from the cherry and in Turkey Créme de Noyeau is flavoured 
with the Oriental Mahaleb cherry pits instead of almond, 
peach, or apricot kernels. Maraschino is made at and 
about Zara, the capital of Dalmatia, where the pulp of 
the Marasca cherries, or Marazques, is mixed with honey 
and sugar or honey is added when distilling the liqueur, 
and the greatest care in every way is taken with the dis- 
tillation. Kirschwasser is the German fermented drink 
from cherries, and ‘‘Cherry Bounce’’ the American. 

The cherry, like the muskmelon and nutmeg, seems 
to have been introduced from Asia into Italy by Lucullus 
—about 70 B. C., and later was taken by the Romans to 
England. Whether red, black, yellow, or white, the cherry 
has always been a favourite but it must be fully matured 
and sweetened before it can be properly eaten since its 
type of acidity, while medicine to kidneys and bladder, 
is not welcomed by stomachs which are weak, and will 
quickly disorder both stomach and bowels if under-ripe 
and is also uncooked. 


THE CHERRY 83 


Cherry wood has a virtue of its own in addition to its 
beauty for casks made of it are said to give the finest 
flavour to. liquors kept therein. As for the tree itself, 
of dimly ancient line, it has been made a particular pet 
by the youngest of nations from neither beauty of blossom, 
fruit, wood, nor medicinal value, but because Americans 
are equally patriots and humourists from the cradle and 
the cherry, linked indissolubly with that first of American 
nursery tales, of George Washington and his hatchet, has 
become a literal ‘‘family tree.” 


RECIPES 


CHERRY SOUP 


For one quart of soup pit and crush a pint of cherries; 
add to them the juice of one lemon, sugar to taste, and 
a dessertspoon of tapioca or sago. Simmer thirty minutes 
with a pint of water; rub smooth through a sieve and 
re-heat, adding one tablespoon of claret and a pinch of 
salt. Let cool, then place on ice before serving. Reserve 
a few stemmed cherries to put in the iced soup at 
the last. 

CHERRY SALAD ~ 


Stone ripe, sweet cherries and place in the heart of each 
a nut—preferably hazel. Serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise or with a cream or other dressing flavoured well with 
Maraschino. (See Introductory Recipes.) 


CHERRY SANDWICHES 


Mix equal parts of candied or Maraschino cherries, and 
chestnuts which have been boiled, blanched, and simmered 
in a little syrup (letting stand in this till cold). Spread 
long narrow saltines or thin bread and butter with the 


84 FRUIT RECIPES 


mixture; placing two together and, if bread is used, cutting 
diagonally to form triangular sandwiches. A sprinkling 
of cress will add piquancy to the flavour. 


CHERRY PUDDING 
Make as for Currant Pudding. See (Garden) Currants. 


UNCOOKED CHERRY BREAD PUDDING 


Slice a loaf of dry bread; spread with butter; place in 
layers in a pudding-dish with stewed or spiced cherries 
poured over. Let stand a half hour and serve with a 
custard or German Sauce. 


GERMAN CHERRY SAUCE 


Crush a pound of cherries with the seeds until the ‘meat 
of the pits’’ is tender, then put through coarse sieve, add one 
pint of wine with as much sugar as desired, and boil till 
thick as cream. This may be spiced if liked. 


CHERRY PIE 


Make as for gooseberry pie or tarts, using tart red cher- 
ries. 
CHERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 
Use the foundation recipe given in Introductory Recipes, 
adding two tablespoons Kirschwasser or Maraschino and 
three-fourths cup of chopped, candied cherries. 


CHERRY FLOAT 


Thicken the juice from a quart of stewed and sweetened 
cherries with a teacup of cornstarch dissolved in cherry 
juice (cold) or cold water. Add juice of a lemon or orange 
and when cooled pour over the cherries which should be 
ready in the serving dish. 


THE CHERRY 85 


FROSTED CHERRIES 
Frost as for grapes, leaving on the stems. See Grapes. 


CHERRY CAKE ICING 


Allow four tablespoons of cherry juice to one cup granu- 
lated sugar, cooking together until the syrup threads. 
Beat this into the stiff-whipped white of an egg. 


CHERRY ICE 


Stone and mash two quarts of cherries and place over 
them one quart of sugar and a wineglass of claret. Let 
stand five or six hours, adding to them the crushed kernels 
of ten cherries. Strain and freeze. 

.Or, use the syrup from stewed or spiced cherries. For 
sherbet add the usual whipped whites of eggs. (See 
Introductory Recipes.) 


CHERRY ICE CREAM 


Make the foundation ice cream or custard (given in 
Introductory Recipes), flavouring with cherry syrup, 
cordial, spiced cherries, Maraschino, or other form of pre- 
served cherries. Use a few of the crushed kernels to 
flavour additionally. 


FROZEN CHERRIES 


Use the ripest cherries of the darkest varieties. Stone 
and place over them a quart of sugar to two quarts of 
cherries. Let stand an hour or more; add a wineglass 
of Maraschino or cordial; place in freezer; pack and let 
stand in salt and ice six hours. 


CHERRIES WITH ICE CREAM 


Serve vanilla ice cream with brandied, spiced, or stewed 
cherries as a hot or cold sauce. (Unless fresh-picked, 


86 FRUIT RECIPES 


uncooked cherries are very ripe indeed and very sweet 
the combination is not always a safe one.) 


CHERRY JELLY No. 1 


Let cherries not fully mature stand in a crock on the 
back of the stove, or in slow oven till all juice is extracted, 
then strain, cook down one-third, and measure, allowing 
one pound of sugar for each pint of juice. Heat separately, 
then cook together twenty minutes or until it jells. 


CHERRY JELLY No. 2 (With Currant) 


Use equal parts of cherries and currants, proceeding 
as for No. 1. 


CHERRY JELLY No. 3 (With Raspberry) 
Use equal parts of raspberry and cherry as above (No 2), 


FOUR FRUIT JELLY (Old Recipe) 


Use equal parts cherry, strawberry, raspberry. and cur- 
rant, stoning cherries and saving juice which exudes. 
Mix and crush, then squeeze hard; strain through linen 
bag and measure. Allow a pound and two ounces of loaf 
sugar for each pint of juice; put together in preserving 
kettle, boiling and skimming. It should jell after twenty 
minutes boiling; may take a little longer. 


CHERRY JAM No. 1 


Stone cherries and weigh, allowing equal parts of fruit 
and sugar. Place in preserving kettle and let stand over 
night, then boil till the jam jellies from the spoon. Place 
in jam pots. 


CHERRY JAM No. 2 (With Currant Juice) 


To six pounds of cherries (after stoning) allow two pounds 
of currants. Mash and place currants with half the pits of 


THE CHERRY 87 


the cherries, cracked, in a double boiler and cook thirty 
minutes, after this straining through linen bag. Add this 
liquor to the cherries (mashed) and cook to half the original 
quantity. Have ready a thick syrup and add six pounds 
of it to the fruit, stirring, skimming, and cooking till the 
syrup beads. Stir in either two wineglasses of Kirsch- 
wasser or Maraschino; remove, and fill jars. 


CHERRY JAM No. 3 


Cook together three pints each of cherries and currant or 
raspberry juice till reduced one-half when add three pounds 
of sugar. Cook as for Cherry Jam No. 2. 


PRESERVED CHERRIES No. 1 


Preserve cherries with the usual pound for pound of 
sugar and fruit, making a syrup with either alittle cold water 
or light wine. Grape Juice may also be used. (See Grapes.) 


PRESERVED CHERRIES—WITH LEMON No. 2 


* .To each six pounds of tart fruit allow the rind of three 
lemons, simmering the latter thirty minutes, then straining 
off the water. Meantime cut fine the lemon pulp, freeing it 
from seeds and heavy “‘rag.’’ Make a syrup of three pounds 
of sugar to one pint of water (using that in which the lemon 
peel simmered). Skim, boil and add cherries, letting boil 
five minutes. Add the lemon pulp and boil three minutes 
longer, then put fruit in jars, pouring over it the hot syrup. 


PRESERVED CHERRIES—WITH CURRANTS No. 3 


To eight pounds of cherries, stoned, add two pounds of 
stemmed currants and sugar equal in weight to the fruit. 
, After the sugar has dissolved cook together slowly thirty 
minutes. 


88 FRUIT RECIPES 


CANNED CHERRIES 


* In canning cherries use tart fruit. Allow three-fourths 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Figs, pears, or pine- 
apples may be canned with the cherries or added later ; thus 
also with jam or preserves. 


BRANDIED CHERRIES 


Use, preferably, white cherries. Leave a bit of stem on 
each one. Place in layers in jars and fill up with brandy, 
letting stand two days. Have ready a thick syrup, drain 
the liquor from the cherries and add equal quantity of 
boiling syrup to the brandy. Strain and pour over the 
fruit, letting stand this time twelve hours—the fruit bottled 
and corked. Next day fill up any space with syrup till 
just below corks, then seal. 


PICKLED CHERRIES (Uncooked) 


Clip, leaving an inch of the stems. Place in jars in layers, 
alternating with thick layers of powdered sugar. Fill three- 
fourths full. Fill up with cold, spiced vinegar and seal; or 
thin bags of spices may be placed among the cherries and 
plain vinegar poured over fruit and sugar. 


PICKLED CHERRIES (Cooked) 


To two pounds of cherries allow one pound of sugar and 
one-half pint vinegar. Pour this boiling hot over the 
cherries. If the yellow cherries are used place them in the 
kettle and boil a few minutes with the syrup. Add spice 
or not and omit part of the sugar if desired more tart. 


CHERRY CATSUP 


To each pound of cherries allow a pound of sugar, boiling 
together, then straining. To every quart of the liquor allow 


THE CHERRY 89 


a teaspoon each of mace, pepper, ginger, cinnamon, and a 
half teaspoon of cloves. Boil these with the syrup; strain 
and add to the crushed fruit passed through a sieve. Boil 
till thick and reduce with strong vinegar. Bottle while 
hot. 
CHERRY BRANDY 

To each quart of juice resulting from crushed cherries 
(uncooked) allow a gallon of spirits or brandy, add the 
pits, crushed, let stand three weeks and strain. 


DOMESTIC KIRSCHWASSER 


Pour a gallon of brandy over a pound of garden or wild 
ripe cherries or plums, crushing well both fruit and kernels. 
Add two pounds of sugar and let stand five weeks, when 
strain and bottle. 

The imported Kirschwasser is made by letting the wild, 
ripe, black cherry ferment in its own juice, after bruising the 
pulp of the fruit, and stirring several times daily after fer- 
mentation has begun. At this stage the bruised kernels are 
added and the mixture let stand for some weeks before 
straining. 

CHERRY CORDIAL 

To a gallon of strained juice add two pounds sugar and 
boil thirty minutes. Add one half pint spirits (preferably 
brandy), let cool and bottle. 


CHERRY PUNCH 


Pit and mash one pound of cherries and place in bowl 
with the juice of three lemons, two oranges, and a slice or 
two of pineapple, covering with one pint of sugar. Let 
stand an hour when press and strain. Heat this and adda 
quart each of carbonated water and claret, a sliced banana 
and one fourth pound of very ripe cherries or the candied 
or (whole) preserved fruit. 


go FRUIT RECIPES 


CHERRY JUICE AND PRESERVED SYRUP ‘ 


Prepare and cook as for jelly, for the simple juice adding 
a half-pint of sugar to each quart of juice and for the syrup 
making an addition of one pint of sugar to each pint of 
fruit juice. 

CHERRY SHRUB 

Cherry shrub is a modified form of the syrup. To each 
quart of cherries add one cup of water and stew till soft. 
Press and strain the fruit; allow a cup of sugar for each 
pint of juice; boil to a syrup; strain, and bottle while hot. 


CHERRY BOUNCE OR WILD CHERRY RUM 


On four pounds of wild cherries, mashed with the pits 
broken and bruised, pour five quarts of rum. Let stand 
in stone jar or crock two weeks, stirring daily. Then press 
the fruit well, add five and one-fourth quarts of water in 
which have been dissolved two and one-half pounds of 
sugar. Filter and bottle. 


CHERRY VINEGAR (For Flavouring Salads, Etc.) 


Stem and crush Morella cherries, allowing for each quart 
of cherries two quarts of vinegar. Let stand four weeks, 
when. strain and bottle. 


CHERRY VINEGAR 


Cover several bushels of mashed cherries with water 
and let stand forty-eight hours ina tub. Drain and press 
through a bag. To the resulting liquor add half as much 
water and to each half-gallon of the mixture two ounces of 
sugar. Let ferment. 


DRIED CHERRIES No. 1 


Stone and spread in thin layers on earthenware; sprinkle 
sugar over and dry in slow oven, the hot sun, or fruit-dryer. 


THE CHERRY gr 


DRIED CHERRIES No. 2 


Stew cherries with a little sugar (no water) then spread 
on earthenwareand dry inslow oven. Cook down the syrup 
and when the fruit is dry pour it over the cherries, a little 
each day till all is used, drying again in the oven and re- 
peating till all the syrup is used. 


CANDIED CHERRIES 


‘There are several methods of candying cherries or any 
fruit. One method is to use. pound for pound of sugar and 
fruit, placing sugar in a kettle, allowing for each pound a 
scant half-cup of water and simmering till dissolved. Skim, 
and when the syrup is boiling add the cherries. Let the 
fruit cook very slowly until translucent, when pour off the 
syrup, spread fruit in dishes, and dry in a slow oven or the 
sun for ten hours or until dry. Sprinkle with sugar and put 
away in layers. 

The second method, which is better for heavier fruits, 
but may also be applied to cherries, is to make a lighter 
syrup, using a half-pint of water to each pint of sugar and 
letting come to a boil, cooking then for two minutes. Pour 
then over the fruitandlet all stand a dayand night. Drain- 
add to the syrup half the quantity of sugar used the day 
previous and boil until this is dissolved. Pour over the 
fruit and let all stand for forty-eight hours. Repeat 
the process, letting fruit stand in the syrup four different 
times, when drain and wash in cold water. 

If to be glazed the fruit should be dipped in syrup (as for 
crystallising), then dried as quickly as possible in the open 
air or by electrical fans. If to be crystallised dip in a 
syrup which will string (like candy) from the spoon and dry 
in oven or sun very slowly. 

In some places the fruit for candying is first (after wash- 
ing, wiping, and cutting as required) soaked in brine, then 


92 FRUIT RECIPES 


placed in boiling water, the time depending upon the kind 
of fruit and its stage of maturity. 


MARASCHINO RECIPES 


In Zara, Dalmatia, there are various special dishes made 
with the Marasquin or Maraschino, as “‘ Maraschino Jelly”’ 
and ‘‘Creme de Maraschino.” For the former beat well 
the yellows of ten eggs with a little sugar and about 
one-fourth as much cream. Heat slowly and care- 
fully till it thickens well, then let cool, add Maraschino 
to taste, and place ina mould to harden. For the Creme de 
Maraschino whip cream till stiff, add a little sugar, a few 
drops of vanilla, one tablespoon Maraschino, and one-half as 
much of powdered macaroons as of whipped cream. Mix 
well and serve in tall glasses. Delightful drinks may be 
made by using iced orange- or pineapple- or other fruit- 
ade (mixed with carbonated water, as a basis, adding sugar 
and Maraschino to taste). Or iced tea may be the 
foundation. 


CHAPTER VII 


THE PLUM (Common Garden Plum: Prunus domes- 
tica: Amygdalacee) 


HE Prunus or plum, considered as an individual fruit, 
has again under its division various kinds of plums, 
all of which are supposed to have originated from the Sloe 
or Blackthorn, or Prunus spinosa, from which the Bullace 
(Prunus insititia) is considered the next step, a second or 
middle stage. Concerning this, as with the peach, there 
is still a little ambiguity, since the three are in many ways 
as different as in other points the resemblance is marked. 
The red, cherry-plum, or Myrobalan, is thought to be next 
of kin, onward, from the Bullace. The plum has been 
found wild nearly all over Asia and from Asia its 
introduction into Russia and other parts of Europe 
was evidently very early. The damson plums are said to 
take their name from Damascus where they were first 
known. 

The Beach Plum (Prunus maritima), and the wild red 
and yellow plum (Prunus Americana), with the Chickasaw 
(P. Chicasa)—all of them wild American species—furnish 
variety of form and colour rivalled only by the domestic, 

. cultivated species all over the world. Their rich smooth- 

ness often tempts the palate before the fruit is properly 

‘ripened, which sometimes leads to the belief that it is the 

plum which is at fault. The traditional “sugar plum” 

and the fetching rhyme of Jack Horner point to an ancient 

delight in the fruit which gradually attached itself asa 
93 


94 FRUIT RECIPES 


general term to sweetmeats or stood as the symbol of all 
sugared and particularly mysterious goodies. 

The leaves of the sloe are sometimes steeped to be used 
as tea, and the fruit, which is so astringent as to stop the 
flow of blood, is, when unripe, not infrequently pickled, 
resulting in an excellent resemblance to olives. 

Prunes, the dried form of certain varieties of plums, are 
as food the most valuable of all of them. Over a century 
ago Richard Brook declared them ‘‘both food and physick” 
and such they are to-day. A German chemist, Bonneberg, 
has extracted crystallisable sugar from prunes equal to 
cane sugar. With their large amount of nitrogenous ele- 
ments and great percentage of sugar the nourishing 
qualities of prunes are indisputable and virtually unsur- 
passed among fruits and, in the sense of being fine for the 
nerves, may be termed ‘‘brain food.’”” They are laxative, 
giving this property to water in which they may be stewed 
and which, therefore, is sometimes used as a vehicle for or 
addition to purgative medicines. Like other dried fruits, 
prunes should be pretty well softened—-soaked or stewed— 
that they may be thoroughly masticated and digested, for 
they are a concentrated food and their skins of a texture 
requiring deliberate processes whether of softening or 
chewing. Like other plums, or plums in less mature stages, 
prunes are apt to cause unpleasant sensations of griping 
when eaten in any great quantity at one time. 

In Hungary a brandy is distilled from prunes called 
Zwetschenbrannwein, which contains about 40 per cent. of 
alcohol. In parts of France a strong alcoholic beverage is 
distilled from plums by mixing honey and flour with them; 
Kirschwasser is sometimes manufactured from wild plums; a 
pleasant wine is made from various kinds—wild or culti- 
vated—and where apples are added in process of fermenta- 
tion a strong liquor results, 


THE PLUM 95 


RECIPES 


PLUM SOUP 


Make with large sweet plums, as for cherry soup, or use 
part plums and part cherries. (See Fruit Soups, Intro- 
ductory Recipes.) 

PLUM SALADS 


Greengages make one of the prettiest of fruit salads. 
They may be used with bananas—halved or cubed—with 
good effect. Sprinkle powdered sugar over and let stand 
an hour or under before serving, or marinate in olive oil, 
flavoured with a cordial or ¢queur, or use the cordial alone, 
serving with whipped cream. (See Introductory Recipes: 
for Fruit Salads.) 


WILD PLUM MARMALADE 


Cover well with water and cook wild red plums until 
soft; let stand till cool, then drain and put through a 
coarse sieve. Use pound for pound of fruit and sugar, 
cooking down till thick. The water in which the plums 
were simmered may be added to the fruit and sugar or not, 
as preferred, as it may be set aside for other uses. 


SWEET PLUM MARMALADE 


If plums are very large, soft, sweet, and thoroughly mature, 
peel and remove seeds and skins. They will require no 
water. Place in crock and proceed as with peach jelly 
to extract juice. Strain this off, through sieve, and add 
two-thirds as much sugar as pulp. Simmer slowly, stir- 
ring carefully, and cook twenty minutes or until thick. 
The fruit juice may be added or not. 


PLUM AND CRAB APPLE MARMALADE 
See Crab Apple Marmalade. 


96 FRUIT RECIPES 


DAMSON PLUM JAM 


Wash, halve, and pit the damsons, barely cover with 
water and cook'till skins break, when add pound for pound 
of sugar to the fruit and juice and cook down till thick. 
For marmalade cook with the stones, putting through a 
sieve or colander to remove pits when fruit is soft, then 
cooking fifteen minutes with the sugar. 


APRICOT AND PLUM JAM 


Use half and half of apricot and plum and make by usual 
method for jams. The apricots may be used dried and 
soaked or steamed. 


PLUM AND LEMON JAM 


Use with greengages, the grated rind and juice of a 
lemon for each quart of fruit. 


PLUM JELLY No. 1 


If the plums are very tart or bitter a little soda may be 
added, about one dessertspoonful for each peck of fruit, 
letting all come to a boil. Drain and add fresh water, 
barely enough to cover, cooking down till plums are tender. 
Strain through a flannel bag (over night if possible; a 
cheese cloth bag will facilitate matters but it must not be 
squeezed). Let cook down one-fourth; skim and add 
sugar in equal proportion to weight of fruit. When sugar 
has dissolved the juice will jell in twenty minutes or under. 


PLUM JELLY No. 2 


Use wild plums, the fruit or juice—one-third or one-fourth 
part plums—with juice of crab apples. This combination 
makes a beautiful colour and delicious flavour. 


THE PLUM 97 


PEUMS SPICED 


When making marmalade with plums that do not re- 
quire soda (for bitterness or extreme acidity) save the 
water poured off-after simmering to tenderness and cook 
down one-fourth or till rather thick. To a quart of this 
juice add a pint each of sugar and vinegar, a teaspoon of 
allspice and one-half teaspoon each of mace, cloves, and cin- 
namon. Pour, after boiling thirty minutes, over fresh, 
ripe plums which have (each) been pricked in several 
places. Place in heated jars; cover and let stand twelve 
hours; drain; re-cook syrup and pour over plums. Re- 
peat, letting syrup thicken to one-half the last cooking. 
Seal while hot. <A syrup of the sugar and vinegar may be 
used without adding fruit juice. 


PLUM BUTTER 


In jelly-making the plums left may be put through a 
sieve, then placed on stove with equal quantity of sugar, 
cooking an hour or longer, till thick as desired. This may 
be spiced if liked. (See Peach Butter.) 


PLUM CATSUP 


To four quarts plums (preferably damsons) add one 
quart water, cooking very slowly till fruit is tender, when 
press through coarse sieve and return to kettle. Add one 
pound sugar, one-half teaspoon each of cloves, allspice, 
and pepper,and one of cinnamon. Cook till thick as wished 
and bottle while hot. 


WILD PLUM CATSUP 


To each five pounds of plums take two and one-half 
pounds sugar cooking, crushing, and putting through sieve. 
To each quart of juice add a generous half-pint of vinegar 
and spice to taste. Cook twenty minutes and bottle. 


98 FRUIT RECIPES 


PLUM PASTE 


For this use tart but juicy plums and cook in their own 
juice until soft. Remove stones and press pulp through 
sieve; weigh, and replace on stove. Allow and set aside 
half this weight in sugar. Cook pulp slowly an hour 
before adding sugar; let latter dissolve and boil one minute. 
Pour the mass into earthen dishes in quarter-inch thickness, 
and dry slowly in cool oven. Remove and pack away for 
use in ornamenting puddings or cakes or to dilute and serve 


as sauce, 
PLUMS DRIED WITH SUGAR 


Cut open plums of some sweet variety, but do not re- 
move stones. Place on plates and sprinkle sugar over fruit, 
setting in a slow oven. The sugar will be absorbed by the 
plums, when add more sugar and repeat as long as there is 
juice sufficient to take it up. Pack in layers in jars. 


TO DRY PLUMS WHOLE (‘American Prunes’’) 


Take ripe purple plums and spread on earthen dishes. 
Dry in the sun, putting them out each day to dry eight or 
ten hours, or use a cool oven, turning the fruit over fre- 


quently. 
PLUM LEATHER 


Remove the pits of thoroughly ripe greengages and mash 
the fruit, then proceed as with peach leather. Add sugar 


to the plums. 
PRESERVED PLUMS 


With the common wildor blue plums they may be steamed 
or dropped for a minute or two in boiling water to loosen 
the skin, which may then easily be removed. After this 
proceed as with other preserves. 

With other plums prick the skins in several places with 
a large needle to keep them from bursting, then place in 


THE PLUM 99 


layers in preserving kettle, allowing same amount of sugar. 
Let all come to a boil slowly; take out plums with skimmer; 
drain, and spread on plates in the sun. Cook down the 
syrup slowly for half an hour, skimming often; place 
plums in-this for ten minutes (boiling them). Drain and 
dry as before and when quite cold place in jars, heated 
pouring the boiling syrup over the fruit and sealing a 


once. 
PICKLED PLUMS No. 1 


Pour over hard, unripe plums which have been washed, 
dried, and pricked in a number of places, boiling, spiced 
vinegar, repeating three times. 


PICKLED PLUMS No. 2 


Plums of any kind may also be pickled like cherries 
(cold), placed in jars in layers, alternating with layers of 
sugar; cold vinegar poured over, and sealed. : 


BRANDIED PLUMS No. 1 


to 


Select greengages which are full-sized but still hard, and 
place in layers in jars. To each pint of white brandy allow 
two and one-half ounces granulated sugar; pour over and 


seal tight. 
BRANDIED PLUMS No. 2 


Make a syrup as for preserves. When thick add two- 
thirds part of brandy and pour over the fruit. 


PLUM WINE 


To four gallons of damsons add five and a half gallons 
of soft water. Simmer till tender, when strain; add fifteen 
pounds of sugar and six ounces red tartar. Strain and 
let ferment as with other wines. Or a syrup may be made 
of the sugar and water and cooked with the plums two 


100 FRUIT RECIPES 


hours. One-fourth pint of yeast may be added to this 
and let ferment ten days covered. With either formula 
the bruised kernels of half the plums should be added to 
the mixture and let stand till after fermentation. 


PLUM BRANDY 


Simmer two gallons of greengages (in barely enough water 
to cover) till soft. Add two pounds sugar and a gallon of 
brandy and let stand corked three months, when filter. 

Or cover two gallons uncooked mashed plums with one 
gallon of brandy, adding the cracked stones and kernels, 
letting stand as above. 


PLUM VINEGAR 


For two quarts of plums allow a gallon of water and let 
stand twenty-four hours. Add one-half pint sugar for 
each gallon of liquid; place in barrel in warm place (where 
it should be shaken each day while fermenting.) 


PLUM TRIFLE 


Cook plums slowly till soft when rub through sieve and 
let cool. To each cup of pulp add the whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff and a little sugar. Drop a spoonful of this on 
cups two-thirds full of a simple custard, letting the fruit 
meringue heap up well. Serve cold. 


PLUM DUFF 


Mix with a sweet soft biscuit dough chopped plums 
(fresh or dried), using one quart of plums to each pint of 
flour, and tie up in a well-dredged pudding cloth, boiling 
hard three hours. A simple stiff batter pudding (see 
Introductory Recipes) may be used with the fruit instead. 


THE PLUM IOI 


PLUM PUDDING 
See Raisins. 


PLUM CAKE 
See Raisins. 


. PLUM ICES 


Crack half the kernels and bruise the pits, boiling them 
in the syrup or hot milk to extract the flavour, then strain. 
With damsons use no pits. Then proceed as for general 
directions in Introductory Recipes. 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS 


For tarts, puddings, and all other forms of fruit dishes 
see Introductory Recipes or these for other fruits. 


PRUNE RECIPES 


PRUNE SOUP No. 1 


Soak one pound of prunes in one quart of cold water, 
first washing well. In the morning place on the back of 
the stove with an additional generous pint of water, letting 
come slowly to the simmering point. Add a little cinna- 
mon and lemon peel and two tablespoons sago or tapioca, 
letting barely simmer until prunes are tender and the sago or 
tapioca clear, when stir in one-half cup of claret; let boil 
up, then remove immediately and serve. 


PRUNE SOUP No. 2 


Use one-third prunes and two-thirds peaches, fresh or 
dried, if the latter, soak, simmer, and mash to a pulp 
through a sieve. Dilute with boiling water; two pints to 
each pint of fruit and thicken with a dessertspoon of corn- 
starch. 


102 FRUIT RECIPES 


STEWED PRUNES 
Wash well, then soak over night and stew (whole) in same 
water with juice of an orange or a little sherry, and English 
walnuts. 
PRUNES SPICED 
Prunes may be very simply spiced by stewing, as above, 
with the addition of a little lemon peel and a half-teaspoon 
each of allspice and cinnamon, or spicing as for plums, 
pears, etc., allowing a cup of vinegar to each pint of the 
dried prunes. (See plums, etc.) 


STUFFED PRUNES 


Soak large prunes over night then make an incision at 
one end large enough to remove stones, and fill space with 
chopped nuts and sugar; roll the prunes after this in sugar, 
then dry. May be kept ten days before using. 


PRUNE CROQUETTES 


Stiffen prune pulp (prepared as for soup) with fine 
cracker or breadcrumbs, adding also, if liked, chopped 
nuts; roll in egg, then in crumbs, and fry in deep kettle of 
boiling fat. 

PRUNE BETTY AND BREAD PUDDING 


Make first as for apple ‘‘Brown Betty.’’ For bread pud- 
ding see Introductory Recipes, and Pear Bread Pudding. 


PRUNE DUMPLINGS AND SUET PUDDING 
Make as directed in Apple and Peach recipes. 


PRUNE PONE OR BREAD 


Scald one-half pint cornmeal; stir into it two cups of 
flour (preferably one of graham and one of white); one- 
half cup molasses; one cup each sour milk and washed, 


THE PLUM 103 


chopped, dried prunes. Use with milk one scant teaspoon 
soda. Steam in a mould three hours or bake two (moder- 
ate oven). Serve with sweet sauce or rich milk. 


PRUNE CAKE 


Have ready a cup of chopped nuts and two of chopped, 
dried, steamed prunes. Alternate these in layers with 
cake batter made with three eggs, one and one-half cups 
sugar, three-fourths cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, 
and one teaspoon baking-powder sifted through three cups 
of flour. Bake in moderate oven till done through. Or 
this may be all stirred together. 


PRUNE ROLL 
Make as for Apple Roly Poly, baking or steaming. 


PRUNE SHORTCAKE 


Flavour stewed prunes with orange, cherry, or other 
tart fruit juice, mash to a pulp and serve as for strawberry 
shortcake. (See Strawberries.) 


PRUNE TART 


Line sides of baking-dish with pastry and fill middle 
of dish with fresh or soaked, pitted prunes. Sprinkle over 
them sugar with a tablespoon of flour and bake. When fruit 
is tender and juicy pour over it the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten with a spoonful of cream, one-half cup each of sugar 
and cake crumbs. Bake till done when place on top a 
meringue made with the whites of the eggs and half a cup 
of sugar flavoured with vanilla. Let brown. 


SHERRIED PRUNES 


Wash, then soak prunes over night, simmering next day, 
in very little water, till tender enough to pit. Have soaking 


104 FRUIT RECIPES 


a half-box of gelatine (this quantity to each original quart 
of prunes put to soak) and place prunes with the gelatine 
in stewpan till gelatine is thoroughly melted. Add a 
heaping teaspoon of sugar, the grated juice and rind of two 
oranges and one-half cup of sherry; remove from fire; let 
cool, then place on ice to chill. This will not make a solid 
form but should be of the consistency of thick custard. 


PRUNE SPONGE 


This may be made with the prune pulp instead of the 
whole fruit. (See Introductory Recipes.) 


PRUNE GELATINE 


Allow one-half box of gelatine to each pound of prunes 
which should be soaked over night (after thorough washing), 
simmered fifteen minutes, and pitted. Have the gelatine 
soaking in cold water—one-half pint of water to each half 
box of gelatine—and when soft pour on it one pint of 
boiling water with juice of two lemons and one and one- 
half cups of sugar. Let cool, stirring till it thickens slightly 
when place half of this in a wet mould. When firm lay 
on it the prunes and pour over them the rest of the jelly. 

The gelatine may be made into plain lemon or wine jelly. 
instead of being merely flavoured with lemon. Serve 
with whipped cream. 


PRUNE SOUFFLE 


Take one-half pound stewed prune pulp (prepared as for 
soup); add juice of one lemon, three-fourths cup of sugar, 
and the stiff-whipped whites of four eggs. Turn into the 
soufflé dish, sprinkling sugar over the top and baking in 
brisk oven ten minutes, or till brown. 


THE PLUM 105 


INDIVIDUAL PRUNE PUDDINGS 


Make as above but bake in cups or ramekins, serving 
cold with whipped cream. 


“PRUIN SAUCE” (Squire Hardcastle) 


“‘Certainly there is no better relish for game, mutton,: 
lamb, fowls of every sort, even roast pork, provided it be 
tender and crisp enough. Wash a pound of small prunes 
and put them on in plenty of cold water with the juice of 
two lemons and their thin yellow peel, four blades of mace, 
two dozen whole cloves, and a bunch of whole allspice, 
reinforced with a single peppercorn. Cook for two hours, 
simmering gently and filling up as the water wastes. Then 
put in two cups of sugar and simmer another hour until 
the syrup is thick and rich. Then add a half cup of cider 
vinegar, let boil five minutes, and your sauce is done. It 
is in truth a very rich, sweet pickle, which will keep 
indefinitely. Martha McCulloch Williams.’ 


PRUNE SNOW 


This is made as for Prune Soufflé but served at once, 
uncooked. 
PRUNE ICES 


For a simple ice simmer one pound of prunes till tender, 
remove pits, and put through coarse sieve. This may be 
used with the foundation syrup for water ices, adding 
juice of one lemon for each pint of the mixture. It may 
also be added to the foundation ice cream or custard (see 
Introductory Recipes), or the stewed prunes, pitted, may 
be packed and frozen (whole) with the addition of any 
tart fruit juice. 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS 
For custards, tapioca, etc., see Introductory Recipes. 


CHAPTER VIII 
THE NORTHERN PAPAW (Asimina triloba) 


HE common wild Northern, American papaw, Asimina 
triloba, belongs to the Anonacee@, or Custard Apple 
Family, which has very interesting tropical members— 
in fact, according to Gray, they are “‘all tropical except 
the single genus, Asimina, Papaw of the United States.”’ 
Yet the tropical papaw of the West Indies, the Carica 
Papaya, is an entirely different fruit—not related, as so 
often supposed to be. ; 

The wild Northern papaw inspires extremes of admira- 
tion or dislike as a fruit food, but those who decry it are 
very often those who once were too fond and over-indulged 
in its richness. Northerners are not accustomed to using 
it in any way except ‘‘out of hand,” but it may be baked 
or used in delicate desserts such as gelatine, cornstarch, or 
egg combinations, even using it as filling for tarts. For 
tarts it may be spiced and used as is pumpkin-pulp 
(cooked) for pies. 

The papaw has fine tonic qualities but it is so rich and 
nourishing a food that it is anything but ‘“‘light’”’ and 
should not be used in great quantity in connection with 
other concentrated, or with lighter foods, if the latter 
“‘spread the board” in great abundance. 


106 


CHAPTER IX 


THE WILD NORTHERN PERSIMMON 


Diospyros Virginiana 


HE wild Northern persimmon (‘‘Diospyracee,”’ gener- 
ally considered of the Ebony Family) is a very nour- 
ishing, attractive and delicious fruit after being touched 
by frost when in its sweetness and form it proves the 
applicability of its nickname, ‘“‘Date Plum.’’ It has enor- 
mous riches of sugar and is fattening as well as toothsome— 
all of which the ‘possums and other wild creatures discov- 
ered centuries ago. These veritable sugar-plums, the 
familiar, oddly wrinkled lumps of sun-transmuted astrin- 
gency which hang temptingly among quaint, tinted 
leaves, may be used in a numberof ways for the table. 

It must be remembered always, however, that the persim- 
mon is a ‘‘hearty’’ food, containing concentrated riches— 
chiefly of sugar—and so may not be eaten in quantity 
indiscriminately. Properly treated it will keep a long 
time and its possibilities as a food will surprise those who 
care to experiment affectionately with it. 

To dry it for future use hang in a cool, dry place, then use 
it uncooked, or in cookery as is the Kaki, or Japanese per- 
simmon, or the date. It may be fermented by the usual 
processes for wine, beer, and vinegar. The seeds, browned 
in the oven and ground, are in some parts of the South used 
as a substitute for coffee. 


107 


CHAPTER X 
THE GRAPE (Vitis) 


HE grape (Nat. Ord. Vitacee@) is by common consent 
ranked next to the apple in point of concentrated 
health value; by many it is put first and no fruit has been 
so widely used as a systematic ‘‘cure,’’ one recognised by 
the medical profession as filling perfectly the promise or 
meaning of this term. The foreign, scientific and practical 
method of taking this treatment, under the care of physi- 
cians, is no more unusual than the taking of mineral waters 
at resorts established in the vicinity of medicinal springs. 
Its health-giving qualities were known ages ago and its 
habitual use in the form of the simple fruit, the unfermented 
juice, or wine, are mentioned familiarly in the earliest 
Biblical and secular historical records. The old Greeks 
and Persians valued it and preserved the fresh fruit as far 
out of season as possible, making also a syrup which con- 
tained its fresh flavour and aroma. 

In the grape-cures different kinds of grapes—those 
varying in sweetness, etc., are used, as individual cases 
seem to require. Some grapes contain as high as 30% of 
sugar or as low as 10% and this element is one of the most 
important contained in the fruit. There are also in it 
albuminous matter, gum, dextrine, tartrates of soda, potash, 
phosphoric acid, lime, magnesia, and iron, and a large per 
cent. of water. In addition, as Holbrook states, ‘‘No 
grape ig entirely devoid of the vinous acid, similar to the 
malic acid of the apple,’’ and ‘‘some grapes contain con- 
siderable tannin and fatty oils.” The colouring matter 

108 


THE GRAPE 109 


exists in but slight quantity. Genuine cream of tartar is 
the ‘‘natural salt of the grape’’ and tartaric acid, which 
occurs in grapes in an acid potassium salt, is prepared for 
commercial use from ‘‘tartar or argol, an impure acid 
potassium tartrate, deposited from wine, or rather from 
grape juice in the act of fermentation”’ (purified by chem- 
ical process). Fownes’ Manual of Chemistry. 

Lemons and grapes contain most abundanffy the potash 
salts of which all fruits have important quantities, and of 
these two fruits grapes are better fitted for use as food proper 
and are perhaps adapted to a larger percentage of the 
human beings whose digestive organs are in need of repair. 
For this reason the grape has been chosen as the most 
attractive and direct method or vehicle for the conveyance 
of potash salts into the system and by means of it wonderful 
results—yet not surprising—have been accomplished. Both 
the water and sugar of the grape require virtually no di- 
gestion but are taken ‘‘almost at once into the blood.’”’ The 
kidneys, liver, intestines, and other organs are cleared and 
strengthened by the mineral elements of this fruit; in fact, 
if the grape were a patent medicine more could hardly be 
claimed for it as, in addition, it is recommended and given 
to cure almost every form of respiratory ailment, for the 
nerves, the blood, the spleen, and for skin affections. The 
grape-cure proper limits the quantity of grapes given as well 
as the variety of grape and restricts patients in regard to 
other foods although taken in conjunction with a prescribed 
diet of wholesome dishes. Without doubt, where any 
serious affection seems to obtain, the grape-cure or grapes 
in any unusual quantity should be taken under the direction 
of those familiar with the. physiological effects and benefit, 
or otherwise, in relation to special conditions, although in 
“health or general ill-health’? where a tonic is needed, the 
grape is almost invariably helpful. 


110 FRUIT RECIPES 


(As food for stock-grape seeds are considered as good 
as oats in some portions of Europe, and, dried and ground, 
are used by peasants as a substitute for coffee). 

Raisins are the dried form of grape as prunes are of 
certain plums, and, like prunes, dates, and dried figs, etc., 
contain concentrated food value. They have more pro- 
tein, fat, carbohydrates, and ash than prunes and more fat 
and ash than dates, figs, or dried apricots, ranking in fuel 
value close to them. (See W. O. Atwater’s and M. E. 
Jaffa’s tables of food values appended.) Raisins are an 
excellent diet combined with other foods, furnishing suffi- 
cient sugar of themselves to sweeten most dishes, but they 
should be either cooked till the skins are thoroughly tender 
or, if eaten uncooked, the skins should be eschewed as well 
as the seeds, as neither one can be recommended as readily 
digestible. 

The commercial name of the Passule minores—the 
smaller, dried, reddish or bluish, sweet, thin-skinned 
“‘berries’’ of the grape—is Corinthian raisins or Zante 
Currants, the first name being directly derived from Cor- 
inth, near which place they were first raised, and from their 
resemblance to garden currants (see Currants or Berries); 
though some authorities claim the naming of currants 
from these grapes, reversely. The ‘‘currants” of 
commerce are dried in the sun and packed when 
their food value is positive and concentrated, similar 
to that of raisins. If eaten with regularity it is 
claimed they are blood purifiers as well as nourishment. 
Those who suffer from uric acid troubles are sometimes 
advised to eat certain quantities (up to eight ounces) daily. 
They may be served alone, scalded, or as adjuncts to other 
dishes, but, while the skin is thinner than that of raisins 
they should be thoroughly masticated and in the case of 
use for children, previously softened or chopped. 


THE GRAPE 1II 


GRAPE RECIPES 


TO PRESERVE GRAPES UNCOOKED 


There are several methods of doing this and the attempt 
is worth making as grapes uncooked are at their best in fla- 
vour and health-giving elements. Unfermented grape juice’ 
the next best method of keeping the full grape value. 


GRAPES IN SAWDUST, SAND, ASHES, AND COTTON 


An old-fashioned method of keeping grapes (which, at 
the start, must be without blemish) was similar to methods 
now used with white grapes or those shipped any distance: 
packing in bran or sawdust thoroughly dried in the sun or 
moderate oven, then allowed to cool perfectly, spreading 
a layer of sawdust on the bottom of a box, then a layer 
of the fruit, with bran or sawdust between so that bunches 
cannot touch. The last layer of bran should be rather 
thick and the top of the box screwed on so that the grapes 
may both be air tight and not jarred more than neces- 
sary. Fine, well-sifted wood ashes and sand were also for- 
merly used in this manner and not infrequently cotton wad- 
ding was employed in the same way. 


GRAPES SEALED WITH WAX 


Have ready hot sealing wax and in it dip the cut ends 
of each bunch-stem. Remove all imperfect grapes and 
place bunch in a bag of thin paper or a sheet of some soft 
paper, gathering it up at the corners and tying around the 
stem snugly, fastening to the latter a string by which it may 
be hung till needed. Keep fruit if possible in a cool, dry, 
dark place. 

BOTTLED GRAPES (Country Life in America) 


French vine growers, according to Country Life in Amer- 
ica, preserve grapes by leaving five or six inches of stem 


112 FRUIT RECIPES 


when cutting the bunches. These stems are inserted in 
large-mouthed bottles of water, the grapes themselves 
hanging outside, and the bottles are placed in racks in 
cellars where there is a uniform low temperature. 


UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE No. 1 


Heat the thoroughly ripe grapes slowly—in a double- 
boiler or crock—on the back of the stove or in a slow oven. 
When the skins are tender strain through cheese cloth bag 
without squeezing. When juice has been replaced on stove 
and is at boiling point, add half as much sugar as juice 
Let dissolve perfectly then seal while hot. 


UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE No. 2 


Wash, crush, and heat the fruit, simmering for thirty 
minutes. Crush again, strain, and squeeze hard through a 
bag. Replace juice on stove, let boil and skim, then add 
one-fourth pint of sugar to each pint of juice, letting dis- 
solve and boiling about six minutes. Fill heated bottles 
and seal at once. 


UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE No. 3 (Without Sugar) 


Mash, boil, and press grapes. Have bottles ready ona 
false wooden bottom in a large boiler. Fill bottles with 
the cooled juice, pour cold water in the boiler up to the 
necks of the bottles, let the whole heat, and boil for ten 
minutes. As the juice may evaporate the bottles should 
be filled up from one special bottle. Cork and seal while 
hot. 


UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE No. 4 (Without Sugar) 
A second method of preserving the juice without sugar is 


to mash the fresh grapes before heating them. Strain off 
the juice, then heat to boiling point as above. 


THE GRAPE 113 


FRUITS PRESERVED IN GRAPE JUICE (Miss Parloa) 


No sugar is needed when fruits are put up in grape juice. 
Heat grape juice till reduced one-third (six quarts 
reduced to four quarts), then place in it the prepared 
fruit (as for other preserves). Have it well covered with 
juice and slowly boil till the fruit is translucent and ten- 
der, when place at once in heated jars and seal. 


CANNED GRAPES 


Canned grapes give excellent flavour, the juice resulting 
after standing some weeks being, if properly made, like a 
sweet wine. Wash and cut grapes from the bunch leaving 
a bit of stem on each. Make a syrup with a quart of water 
to each pound of sugar. Place the fruit in heated jars in 
an outer vessel of cold water and let heat gradually. Fill 
nearly full with the syrup and let cook ten minutes; add 
more syrup and seal immediately. (White grapes or 
seedless grapes are very delicate prepared this way or in 
grape juice.) 

HOME-MADE TOKAY 

To each quart of grape juice add one pound Sultana 
raisins, chopped. Let stand in a tub or jar two weeks, 
stirring each day several times. Strain and place in cask 
with loose bung for four days then stop tight for eight 
months and it will be ready to bottle. If not then clear 
settle it as for peach wine. 


GRAPE WINE 


Toagallon of grapes—wild or cultivated, and stemmed 
—allow a gallon of boiled rain water. Mash the grapes and 
let stand in the water a week, not straining all this time. 
Then strain and allow for each gallon of liquor three pounds 
of loaf sugar. Place in cask in warm spot. When fer- 
mentation ceases close bung. 


114 FRUIT RECIPES 


CATAWBA WINE 


Allow a quart of soft water to each gallon of crushed 
fruit. Let it stand one week; strain, and to each gallon 
allow a pound of loaf sugar. This should be fit to bottle 
in a year. 


RAISIN WINE 


To each thirty pounds of chopped raisins, stemmed, 
dried, and well looked over, allow three gallons hot water, 
steeping in this a day and night. Strain and press without 
bruising seeds; add an ounce of crude tartar; place in 
barrel and set in a warm spot. Add two gallons additional 
of hot water in which has been dissolved three pounds of 
white sugar. Let ferment; cover with a blanket; place 
bung in tight and let stand three months, when rack 
off into a clean barrel and close tight. Fit to bottle 
in a year. . 


SHERRY OF RAISINS 


To each quart of soft, boiled water, when cool, add a 
pound of raisins chopped, letting stand four weeks, stirring 
often. Strain liquor from the raisins and place it in a 
sealed: jug. In a month rack it off, being careful not to 
disturb the sediment. To each five gallons allow the 
juice of six oranges and the rind (which should have stood 
twenty-four hours in a quart of brandy). Stir in also three 
pounds of loaf sugar for this quantity and mix all well, 
placing in a cask and bottling in four months. 


GRAPE VINEGAR 


For this use wild grapes, pressing out juice, boiling down 
till one-half the original quantity. To three-fourths barrel 
add three gallons of molasses; put in a warm place to 
ferment, after which close the bung. 


THE GRAPE . II§ 


GRAPE CORDIAL 


To every quart of unfermented juice allow a tablespoon 
each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice, and one-half pint brandy, 
Let boil up before adding brandy. Seal. 


HOT GRAPE PUNCH 


Use three sliced oranges for each quart of grape wine 
and several broken sticks of cinnamon. Heat the spice 
and grated rind of the oranges with the wine; strain, and 
add the sliced oranges. 


GRAPE CATSUP 


To each five pints of grapes allow one pound of sugar, 
a half pint of vinegar, and one-half ounce each of cinnamon, 
cloves, and mace. Boil sugar and vinegar together fifteen 
minutes. Heat the pulp and skins meantime; let cool 
and rub through a colander; add this to the vinegar and 
sugar, cocking twenty minutes. If too thick reduce. 


GRAPE CHUTNEY 


Use one quart of seeded grapes (not yet ripened, though 
full-sized) and one and a half pounds of tart apples. 
Place in preserving kettle with an ounce each of garlic, 
grated horseradish, ginger, mustard, four of salt, one salt- 
spoon of cayenne pepper, a pint of vinegar, and one cup of 
stoned raisins. Simmer slowly till thick when rub smooth, 
add one-half pint brown sugar, and let stand a week (in 
earthenware), stirring each day. Then place in small jars 
and cork, putting away in a dry, dark, cool place. 


GRAPE BUTTER 


Simmer the pulp of grapes (either green or ripe) till 
tender; put through a colander, then add skins and cook 


116 FRUIT RECIPES 


till tender, when the sugar must be stirred in, allowing 
one-half pound to each pound of fruit. Cook till thick 
and seal. 

SWEET GRAPE PICKLE 


To seven pounds of grapes allow four pounds of sugar 
and one quart of vinegar. Tie spices in a thin bag and cook 
with the syrup. Pour the latter, when thick and boiling, 
on the grapes. Remove, re-heat, and pour again over the 
fruit for two successive days, then seal. 


GREEN GRAPES PICKLED 


Have the grapes (not yet coloured but full-size) stemmed, 
washed, and drained and let stand in brine twelve hours, 
when drain and rinse. Spice vinegar as for other pickles 
but let it get cold before pouring over the grapes. 


SPICED GRAPES 


The whole grapes or the pulp alone (put through a col- 
ander) may be spiced, proceeding as for spiced apples, 
plums, or prunes. 


WILD GRAPE JELLY No. 1 (With Crab Apple) 


Wash, stem, and heat grapes, adding to them one-third 
part crab apples, simmering together with barely enough 
water to cover and keep from burning. Crush the fruit 
gently and cook till soft and breaking—about two hours. 
Strain without squeezing, letting drip over night. Measure 
juice and let heat, skimming carefully. Allow one pint of 


sugar for each pint of juice and proceed as for other 
jellies. 


WILD GRAPE JELLY No. 2 SPICED 


Cornelia Bedford gives the following as vouched for 
“by an old housekeeper” (Table Talk, Oct. 'os): 


THE GRAPE 117 


“Pick from the stems and wash sufficient wild grapes, 
which are still slightly green, to measure one peck. Put 
them into a preserving kettle with one quart of vinegar, 
one-quarter of a cup each of finely broken stick cinnamon 
and whole cloves. Heat slowly to the boiling point and 
simmer until the grapes are soft. Turn into a bag made 
of two thicknesses of fine cheesecloth and.let drain without 
pressing. When no more will drip through put the clear 
juice over the fire in a clean kettle and boil for twenty 
minutes. Have six pounds of granulated sugar spread on 
shallow pans and warm it without melting in the open 
oven. When the juice has boiled as-directed pour in the 
sugar, stir until dissolved, boil for five minutes, and pour 
into glasses.” 


RIPE AND GREEN GRAPE JELLIES 


For the darker, sweeter jelly take ripe, dark grapes; for 
lighter, tart, jelly grapes still green should be used. The 
tartness and colour may be varied by using part of each. 
Allow one and one-eighth pounds of sugar for each pint of 
juice of ripe grapes and pound for pint of the tart. 


GRAPE AND ELDERBERRY JELLY 


Use half and half of green grapes and elderberries and 
proceed as for the usual form of jelly-making. 


GRAPE JAM 


Heat grapes over boiling water till soft, then simmer 
gently thirty minutes. Let cool a little and press through 
colander. Weigh pulp, allowing one and one-eighth pounds 
sugar for each pound of pulp. Cook together, simmering 
and stirring carefully tillit thickens into jam consistency, 
when place in small jars. Either ripe or green. grapes or 
half and half may be used for this (The wild grapes will 
not harden as well). Lemon rind may be added. 


118 FRUIT RECIPES 


RAISINE 

This is the famous French marmalade or “butter,” using 
equal weight of grapes and pears. Simmer the grapes alone 
first, till soft, in just a little water, having washed, seeded, 
and stemmed them. Press through colander and add the 
pears, uncooked but pared, cored, and sliced. Simmer and 
stir till thick when sweeten and strain and place 
in jars. 

BRANDIED GRAPES (White or Purple) 

Remove all imperfect grapes from the bunches and 
prick each one left on the bunches in two or three places. 
Place a laver of powdered sugar on the bottom of the jars 
to be used, then put in a bunch of grapes, alternating sugar 
and grapes till jars are nearly full. Fill up remaining 
space with brandy; cover jars and set away. 


GRAPE FARINA 


Stew clean, stemmed grapes till soft enough to put 
through a sieve. Allow for each cup of this two table- 
spoons of farina and proceed as for blackberry farina. 


GRAPE SOUP 


Allow a half pint of sugar to a pint of water and simmer 
clear before adding a quart of grape juice (Press ripe grapes 
through a sieve) and juice of a lemon. Have softened a 
tablespoon of tapioca and simmer till clear with the. juice. 
Remove and serve hot or cold; for the latter cooling and 
adding shaved ice. 


GRAPE SANDWICHES 


Seed and slice thin, skinned, white grapes; mix with 
chopped nuts and apples, binding together with French 
dressing and spread’ on buttered rounds of thin-sliced 
white bread. 


vouodop snpdsayt 
« WI{VId »» 
NOWWISYdd NVdve£ NVdvf£ YO LYASOT 


is e 


Sege-ce a 


oa 


SEA OR SHORE GRAPE TREE 


SEA OR SHORE GRAPES 


THE GRAPE 119 


SNOW GRAPES 


Wash and dry carefully bunches of grapes, large or cut 
into smaller clusters. Fasten a looped string to each stem. 
Whisk the white of an egg partially and in this dip the 
clusters then sift over them powdered sugar till they are 
thickly covered. Hang by the strings over plates or lay 
on platters and set on ice for several hours. 


GRAPE SHERBET OR WATER ICE 


Make a syrup of three-fourths pound sugar to a pint of 
water. When cool add one pint of grape juice and freeze. 
A tablespoon of orange or lemon juice brings out the flavour. 
For the sherbet add the usual whipped eggs when half 


frozen. 
GRAPE ICE CREAM 


This may be made with the fresh or preserved grape 
juice. Prepare a simple custard or ice cream foundation 
(See Introductory Recipes). Sweeten well when put on 
the stove; let scald, and cool, then partly freeze before 
adding the grape juice (in proportion of one pint grape 
juice to one quart of ice cream or custard mixture). 


RAISINS STEWED WITH APPLES 
See Apples. 
RAISIN-CURRANT JAM 


See Currants. 


SAUCE OF RAISINS AND CURRANTS 


Stem and mash a quart of ripe currants and place with 
them three-fourths pound of brown sugar. When these 
have come to boiling point. and have been skimmed 
mix in three-fourths pound of seeded raisins or the smaller 


120 FRUIT RECIPES 


seeded raisins. Let all cook together till raisins are 
thoroughly soft, skimming well and stirring after skim- 
ming. Let cool and serve as sauce or dessert. 


RAISIN WINE AND SHERRY 


See Grape recipes above. 


RAISINS AND RICE 


To three-fourths cup of rice allow one cup of raisins. 
Have washed and dried the rice and place it in rapidly 
boiling water (two quarts, salted) for fifteen minutes, when 
it should be quite tender and flaky. Remove and drain 
in colander and steam over boiling water. Have the raisins 
washed and simmered till tender in just a little water. 
When the rice is done mix raisins and juice with it and 
serve. 

RAISIN RICE PUDDING 


Allow one tablespoon of rice to a quart of milk, salted. 
Boil together half an hour, then place in baking-dish with 
one cup of washed raisins and bake an hour, stirring fre- 
quently (a little sugar may be added if liked). The 
last half hour the crust should be allowed to form before 
stirring in; the last time let brown lightly and remove 
from oven. 

ENGLISH PLUM CAKE 


One pound of flour; four ownces each of drippings or 
butter, Sultana raisins and currants; six ounces sugar; 
two ounces candied peel of orange or lemon; two eggs; 
two teaspoons baking-powder; grated rind one lemon and 
a scant half pint of milk. Take an extra ounce of sugar 
(use for this the lump or cube sugar) and burn it brown in 
a saucepan, then pour in on it the milk; stir till it is coloured 
well; strain and cool it. Rub the drippings into the flour, 


THE GRAPE 121 


add sugar and theeggs well beaten, the Sultanas and candied 
peel, and milk. Bake nearly two hours. 


ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 


One pound each of bread-crumbs, flour, suet, currants, 
and raisins; one-half pound each of almonds, candied 
citron, and sugar; one short pint West Indian molasses 
(New Orleans); one orange grated; eight eggs; one nut- 
meg grated; one teaspoon each of salt, cloves, ginger, and 
allspice. Prepare raisins and currants, then dredge with 
flour and mix with the chopped citron and blanched al- 
monds. Mix the suet with the flour, crumbs, sugar, salt, 
spices, and orange peel, adding next the eggs, milk, and 
fruit. Scald and dredge a large, strong pudding-cloth 
and lay on it the pudding; tie well and daub the string- 
hole with dough. The pudding must be placed in boiling 
water and boil eight hours, but it may be boiled six or seven 
hours some days before needed and finished the day it is 
served. 

CURRANT LOAF 


To a quart of flour add a quarter pound of butter, and 
a half cup of sugar, rubbing in well. Scald a pint of milk 
and cool, adding a half pint of cold water. Dissolve in 
this a small yeast cake or tablet and add to the flour 
(making a very soft, thin dough), letting rise until light, 
which will be under three hours. Add two or three beaten 
eggs and a cup and a half to two cups of currants, floured, 
stirring and setting to rise again in a greased cake-pan. In 
two hours bake in temperate oven for about an hour. 


CHAPTER XI 
THE OLIVE (Olea Europea) 


O STATE that the olive has from an unremembered 
limit of time been the symbol of wisdom, peace, 
chastity, and victory, is to concentrate volumes of pane- 
gyrics. And there are truly ages of experience eloquently 
suggested in the very repression of intensity of colouring 
possessed by the silent, dignified, mystic-looking gray- 
green trees which live on indefinitely through centuries. 
Typifying the fat of those lands ‘flowing with milk and 
honey’’ which across the seas stretch back into impene- 
trable dimness, and its fruit literally giving it forth, 
its leaves resemble rather the muscular tissues of 
ancient Greek youths whose graceful bodies were not per- 
mitted to accumulate unnecessary or soft flesh, for these 
slim, somewhat willow-like leaves are apparently almost 
devoid of sap, firm to the point of stiffness in texture. 

The olive of European and Asiatic countries, now also 
thoroughly a product of American-Californian soil, growing, 
too, even on south walls in parts of southern England, is 
known to the world through its oil, its pickled and dried 
fruits. The first is often adulterated with those excellent 
oils of the cottonseed and peanut (which should be allowed 
to appear under their own names, however) and poppy and 
other oils, but the adulteration is the more easily detected 
that olive oil congeals at a higher temperature than the 
other oils. It is the fleshy part of the fruit instead of the 
seed which gives the oil and of this there are several grades, 
the virgin oil, or best grade, being carefully pressed from 

I22 


,8adBig UOISSI,, SNOMes a4} Jo suO 


QTHOM AHL NI ANIAddIVaD LSHOUVT 
ie = aie ae “Ty 


va 


CALIFORNIA OLIVES 


THE OLIVE 123 


olives plucked before perfectly mature. Other grades are 
manufactured from whole olives at otherstages or conditions, 
or from the already pressed pulp thrown into boiling water, 
from which the fat is skimmed, and some of the lower 
grades (for Castile and other soaps, etc.) are procured by 
certain processes of fermentation. 

It is a matter of medical history that olive oil is nourish- 
ing, fattening, laxative, and easily digested; that it is 
soothing to the stomach and intestinal tract and lessens 
the harmful effect. of acrid poisons or other harsh fluids. 
It is one of the greatest beautifiers known, a cupful each 
day building up the whole system, toning the nerves, and 
making the flesh firm—the skin soft. It is a soothing 
and relaxing food for the skin; in some countries is 
thought (so applied) to be a preventive of the plague and in 
the earlier stages of the disease to sometimes even cure it. 

For culinary purposes it is in salad dressings that olive 
oil gives the artistic and gastronomic effects that tend 
toward health (when combined with sufficient simplicity) 
and enriches the blood. (For proportion and combination 
for salads see Introductory Recipes.) 

The plum-like fruit of the olive when unripe and un- 
pickled is not pleasing in flavour, resembling a combina- 
tion of pepper, salt, and vinegar, with a peculiar acrid touch. 
But pickled the olive becomes with most people a much 
desired article of diet, acting as a spur to the palate as well 
as being a source of nourishment and by some claimed 
to assist in the digestion of other foods. (For Imitation 
Olives see Index to Plums.) 

Olive wood is susceptible of an unusual polish which 
brings out strange, beautiful spots and streaks of 
cloudy black merging into green and yellow hues. The 
leaves and bark were once supposed to possess qualities 
similar to those of cinchona bark and the gum also was 


124 FRUIT RECIPES 


thought to have health-giving elements. To-day only 
certain chemical extracts (prepared chiefly in France) 
call forth healing power from the leaves and in such prep- 
arations are sometimes given in fevers, but the gum is 
used almost entirely for perfumery where used at all, as 
among the Italians. 

There is a species of American olive, The Devil-wood, 
(Olea Americana), which grows wild in some of the more 
southern states, which has a flower attractive for its sweet 
scent, and its fruit is considered fit subject for pickling. 

Save the wild crab apple blossom the sweet or Fragrant 
Olive (Olea fragrans or Osmanthus fragrans) of Japan and 
China, has no rival in the botanical world in. delicate yet 
distinctly penetrating and rarely exquisite fragrance. 


CHAPTER XII 
MELONS 


HE national fondness for watermelons, for spicy nut- 
megs, and their kind is so intense; so inseparable 

seem our hot summer sun and gorgeously vivid melons, 
our negro population and gastronomic bliss from national 
prosperity, from each bit of soil and atmosphere American, 
that we have long since forgotten that both melon and: 
negro were but adopted and adapted; that they were not 
as much our own originally as the Indians, as maize, cotton, 
tobacco, and potatoes. But, with our combined talents 
for foreign affiliation, amalgamation, and assimilation and 
our intense patriotism this could not fail to be. The tinge 
of the tropics which appeals to us in the multi-coloured, 
formed, and flavoured succulent dainties is entirely 
typical of our sunny Southern States and they also so 
richly riot over our broad North-land that it is difficult 
indeed to remember, even with some unusually concen- 
trated whiff of musky spiciness from the smaller types of 
melon, that the whole group had an Oriental origin; that 
India, ‘“‘the plains of Ispahan,” ‘‘the floating islands of 
Cashmere’’—all Asia—have presumably first claim. Lucul- 
lus is supposed to have introduced the muskmelon and 
nutmeg into Rome from Armenia, but the British Isles 
made their earliest acquaintance with this group (the 
smaller melons) in the sixteenth century, when taken there 
from Jamaica. It is difficult to state the exact date of the 
melon’s advent into America but it is now so much one 
with the soil that we may be content to waive claim to its 

125 


126 FRUIT RECIPES 


origin and merge exact dates because of present riches.. 

Broadly speaking, there are three classes of melons, to 
the first belonging the larger, watermelons; to the second 
the muskmelon, canteloupe, and nutmeg group, and to 
the third the citron melons. All of them are members of 
the Cucurbitacee, or Gourd Family, to which, also, the 
pumpkin, squash, and cucumber belong. The watermelon, 
Citrullus citrullus, is, in a sense, ‘‘a thing apart,’ being 
considered a distinct genus. It is in this, with its many 
varieties, that we particularly revel in America. The 
Kaukoor (Citrullus utillissimus), is a favourite variety of 
melon in India. It is rather a small, oval, and yellow- 
meated melon of which both the flesh and seeds are prized: 
the former pickled or used in curries, or uncooked. The 
oily seeds, when round, form a farinaceous meal; the oil, 
extracted, is used for lamp oil; the seeds are also used 
medicinally. In Egypt and Arabia the favourite melon is 
the Chate (Citrullus chate) which much resembles the 
American watermelon. 

Our gtandmothers made good use of all three of the 
types known to the United States. The citron melon was 
especially esteemed for rich conserves. On the other hand 
it made the simplest of sauces. The canteloupe group was 
highly regarded as a basis for pickles and marmalades, and 
the watermelon as conserves or medicine. This last melon 
is particularly refreshing, arriving as it does with the 
greatest heat of the year. Unripe, like the muskmelon, 
(Cucumis melo) it is apt to produce unpleasant, colicky 
symptoms, but thoroughly ripe furnishes safety to the 
system with the carrying away of any feverish tendency. 
Among many foreign peoples, as formerly in our own 
country, the fresh simple juice is considered excellent for 
the liver, kidneys, and bladder, and the seeds, like those of 
the pumpkin and cucumber, “bruised and rubbed up with 


MELONS 127 


water to form an emulsion,” are given for catarrhal dis- 
orders. The Dispensatory of the United States (Wood 
and Bache) to-day recognises in its list of ‘‘unofficial”’ 
remedies, the refreshing and purifying qualities of water- 
melon seeds and states that an “infusion of two ounces, 
bruised, to a pint of water, may be taken ad libitum.” 
The freshly expressed, simple juice and a preparation called 
‘“‘watermelon honey,’’ or ‘‘Arbooznyimiod,” are in high 
repute among the peasants of Russia and used in dropsy, 
chronic congestion of the liver, and intestinal catarrh. 

The watermelon, though more bulky, and having one- 
tenth per cent. of fat where it is reckoned the muskmelon 
has none, has less of the richness of the fruit sugars, less ash, 
protein, and heat producing or energy value and in its very 
lack of actual food elements is one of the simplest, most 
wholesome of nature’s purifiers. 

(See tables appended for figures regarding food value of 

melons.) 


RECIPES 


TO SERVE CANTELOUPES SIMPLY 


Canteloupes should be placed on ice and thoroughly 
chilled, then cut in half and the seeds removed, being care- 
ful not to scrape out the delicate pulp nearest the seeds as 
this is the most spicy portion of the fruit. Place the 
halves on plates of cracked ice, reversing the usual order 
of serving ice in the hollow of the melon, as by this latter 
method the flavour is drawn out instead of preserved with- 
in the pulp. 


TO SERVE WATERMELON SIMPLY (Three Ways) 


1. Have the melon thoroughly iced, then slice across 
about an inch thick, remove the rind and cut the solid red 


128 FRUIT RECIPES 


pulp into cubes, diamonds, hearts, or other shapes as de- 
sired. Place in salad bowl or individual dishes, dust with 
fine sugar, and serve at once. 

2. Cut in inch slices across ; remove rind and serve 
the heart (each large slice) of the red pulp in round or 
oval form; sprinkle with sugar. If cut into small rounds 
or ovals (inch length) sprinkle with maraschino and serve 
as cherries or plums. 

3. If the melon is preferably to be placed upon 
the table whole it should be held lengthwise to- 
ward one; the knife inserted near the top and 
cut diagonally downward (instead of straight down- 
ward) toward the other end, leaving four or five inches 
asa base. Three inches to the left of the point where the 
knife was first inserted cut again, this time diagonally 
toward the far end of the first line of cut, thus making a 
pointed tongue. Continue to cut up and down in this 
manner until the melon is completely cut around, when 
two equal sets of points will result, and these jagged halves 
of the melon can easily be pulled apart. (The melon may 
be plugged or halved twelve hours before serving, filled 
with wine and let ‘“‘ripen’’.) 


NUTMEG BASKETS 


Tie a string around the melons that the halves may be 
plainly marked to the eye, then from one end cut a strip 
(both ways) an inch wide and reaching to the string. Re- 
move the side sections and from the baskets thus formed 
take seeds and ‘‘threads.”” Also cut the sweet pulp care- 
fully so that it will be in dainty bits. Set the baskets and 
pulp, separately, on ice, and when ready to serve them fill 
the hollows with the pulp, and sprinkle with sugar, salt, 
or lemon juice as desired. Or, first treat with wine, as 
above, or use the Turkish flavouring on the cut cubes: two 


MELONS 129 


tablespoons of brandy, one of ginger, and pinch of salt 
and pepper. 
MELON ROLL 

Whip stiff one pint double cream. See that it is quite 
dry before adding a half pint of melon pulp (mashed) and 
one-half cup of sugar. Freeze, and when stiff line a long, 
rounding mould with it. Fill in the centre with chopped 
melon flavoured with a little spice, wine, lemon, or other 
fruit flavouring. Place cover on securely, sealing with 
wax or butter, and pack it in salt and ice for several hours. 
When ready to serve it remove the frozen roll with a hot 
knife; slice across in inch slices and serve the circlets thus 
made. 

1 MELON ICE RINGS 

The small round melons (previously placed on ice) must 
be cut across in circles, the seeds catefully removed and the 
hollows filled with whipped cream or fruit ice just before 
serving. 

MELON SURPRISE 

Cut a slice across the top of the smaller melons to serve 
individually, or the larger ones as liked, so that this slice 
will form a lid. Scoop out the inside of the melons and fill 
with nutmeg or canteloupe ice, with wine, or any ice cream 
or whipped-cream mixture. Ifthe shells are iced some time 
before and when filled set at once on ice, they may stand 
thus for some hours (lid replaced). A ribbon may be 
tied around the whole or knotted at the top. 


WATERMELON HALF FROZEN 


Break the ripe pulp of the melon into fine bits with a 
silver fork and place it in freezer without dasher. Let 
stand two hours packed in salt and ice and serve in sherbet 
glasses or the half shell of the melon chilled and garnished 
at base with vines. 


130 FRUIT RECIPES 


WATERMELON SHERBET 


Scrape all the red pulp of the melon, carefully saving 
the juice and having sufficient melon to give strength of 
flavour. Allow to one gallon of liquid 4 pound of sugar 
and freeze. (This may be varied by adding lemon flavour- 
ing and juice, or sherry.) When half frozen add the whip- 
ped whites of eggs (one for each quart of the mixture) and 
finish the freezing. 


CANTELOUPE ICE 


To one quart of melon pulp allow a pound of sugar and 
a pint of water. Make a syrup of the sugar and water, 
simmering five minutes. When cold add to the melon 
pulp and freeze. 


NUTMEG COMPOTE 


Make a syrup as above and while it is still hot lay in it 
cubes or strips’ of melon, simmering five or six minutes, 
then placing in serving-dish. Cook the syrup down till thick, 
add any flavouring desired and pour over the melon. Heap 
whipped cream on this and serve. 


NUTMEG TART 


Nutmeg or canteloupe prepared as above may be made 
into a tempting tart by lining a baking-dish with a delicate 
paste, baking, and then filling it with above mixture. 
Make a meringue with the whipped whites of two eggs and 
cup of sugar; place over melon, brown quickly in oven, and 
serve hot or cold. 


MELON MOUSSE 
Place the pulp of nutmeg, canteloupe, or muskmelon in 


preserving kettle with half the quantity of sugar. Stew 
down till rather thick; rub through sieve and replace on 


MELONS 131 


stove. Have dissolved a half box of gelatine (for each pint 
of pulp) first softened in a little cold water, then more 
thoroughly dissolved by pouring on it a half-pint of boiling 
water and placing over steam. Add this to the cooked 
melon, stirring until it begins to cool and thicken, when 
place in wetted moulds; set on ice till firm and serve with 
cream. (Less gelatine may be used if preferred.) 


MELON MARMALADE (Old-fashioned Recipe) 


Take large citron melons, quarter, and remove seeds. 
Weigh, and to every pound of melon allow a pound of loaf 
sugar (double refined). To every three pounds of melons 
allow two lemons and a teespoonful of ground white ginger.. 
Grate the melon on coarse grater, not too close to rind. 
Grate off also the yellow rind of the lemons and add with 
the ginger to the sugar. Mix all the ingredients in a pre- 
serving kettle. Set it over a moderate fire, boil, skim, and 
stir until it is a very thick, smooth jam. Put it warm into 
glasses; lay a double round of tissue paper on the surface 
and seal the jars. 


SMALL MELON PICKLES (Old Recipe) 


Select muskmelons the size of black walnuts; prick well 
and place for three days in brine, when freshen and pour 
over them hot spiced vinegar. 


RIPE MUSKMELON PICKLES (Mrs. Haskell) 


With all melon pickles use about one teaspoon alum to 
harden four pounds of melon. Take hard muskmelons 
‘after they are sufficiently ripe to develop flavour, and 
slice lengthwise; scrape out seeds and lay melon in salt 
over night. Wash and wipe dry, then put in alum water 
one hour; wash and wipe dry again, cut in slices, and pack 
in glass jars. Pour over them a syrup of vinegar with 


132 FRUIT RECIPES 


spices, and set in a boiler of cold water. Heat gradually 
to boiling; remove the bottles and cork as soon as cold. 
The melons may be peeled or cut in rings if preferred. 


SPICED MELONS 


Quarter, peel, and cut into preferred size the pieces of 
melon. When weighed place in earthen jar; pour over 
them cold vinegar and let stand over night. Then drain 
.and for every seven pounds of melons make a syrup of 
three pounds of sugar, a teaspoon each of allspice and 
-cloves, a little grated nutmeg, and a few bits of stick cin- 
namon. Boil several minutes after commencing to sim- 
mer. Pour this over the melons; cover them and let 
stand over night. Repeat this twice, the last time sim- 
mering until melon is tender and translucent, though firm. 
Place in heated jars and pour the spiced syrup over them, 
then seal. 

MELON MANGOES 

Take small green muskmelons; place in earthen or wooden 
receptacles and pour over them hot brine in which a little 
alum has been dissolved. Repeat twice and let stand in 
brine six days after scalding last time, when place in 
kettle; scald and let stand over night. Repeat this at in- 
tervals of several hours three times, letting stand last time 
twenty-four hours. Remove one section of the melon and 
scoop out the inside. Wash and soak twelve hours in acidu- 
lated water. Make a stuffing of onions, cucumbers, to- 
matoes, beans, horseradish, etc. Drain the melons. 
Place first in them a few cloves, cinnamon, ginger, white 
mustard seed and horseradish, then the filling. Replace 
and sew on the removed section; place melons in large 
receptacle, cut side up, and pour over them spiced vinegar 
(Place weights on them), letting stand six days. Drain and 
cover with unspiced vinegar for indefinite keeping. 


MELONS 133 


PRESERVED CITRON MELON 


To five pounds citron melon take three pounds sugar, 
nine lemons, two ounces green ginger root, and one tea- 
spoon powdered alum. Peel melon and cut into rather 
thin slices, boiling until clear and tender in water containing 
the alum. Drain and wash in cold water. Have ready 
a syrup prepared by cooking together the sugar and juice 
of eight of the lemons, adding grated rinds of three and 
the ginger root, and cooking until clear and rather thick. 
Place in it the citron melon with one sliced lemon; place 
the melon in heated jars; pour into them the boiling 
syrup and seal while hot. 


CANDIED CITRON MELON 


Follow the recipe given just above but slicing thicker, 
and when the melon has been removed from the syrup drain 
and place the cubes or strips in a heater or fruit-dryer or 
in the sun. When dry, after twenty-four hours dip again 
in the re-heated syrup and dry. This process must be 
repeated until the melon is sufficiently candied to keep 
by packing away in layers of oiled paper. On the care 
and length of process depends the success of the results. 


WATERMELON PICKLES 


Pare off the green part of the rind; cut the white part into 
strips of desired size and cover with boiling water in which 
alum has been dissolved. Let stand over night in this, then 
soak several hours in fresh cold rain water. Place in pre- 
serving kettle and cook in fresh hot water till tender. Have 
ready a syrup made of equal parts of vinegar and sugar. 
Cook in this a stick of cinnamon, several sliced lemons, 
(without seeds) and a little ginger-root. When thick and 
well flavoured place the drained melon in this and cook 


S 


134 FRUIT RECIPES 


till it is clear. Take out the melon; place in jars; boil 
down the syrup till thick; pour over the rinds and 
seal. : 
WATERMELON HONEY 
Use the red portion only. Crush and strain it or cook 
down (with seeds) till very soft and then strain, cooking 
again till thick. (Three quarts of red pulp will make but 
about one-fifth pint of ‘‘honey.’’) This requires time and 
patience. Cool the honey, then proceed as with grape juice 
in bottling. It is best without sugar but a little sugar and 
lemon juice may be added, the “honey”’ alone not keeping 
so well. 
WATERMELON CATSUP 
Use the red and a little of the white portions, cooking 
down pulp and seeds till soft, when press through a 
colander and add spice, etc., as for grape catsup. 


CITRON OR PIE-MELON SAUCE 


Cut and pare the melon; place in double boiler with 
no water or barely sufficient to wet the bottom layer of 
pieces, and cook till soft. Add sugar and lemon juice 
or other flavouring. This approaches apple sauce in flavour 
and consistency. To vary the flavour add, instead of 
lemon, or with it, barberry, cranberry, currant, or rasp- 
berry syrup, when the melon begins to soften. 


PIE-MELON TART 


Make as for apple tarts, using the sauce made as above. 


MELONS AS VEGETABLES 


The half ripe melons of the canteloupe group may be 
used as are cucumbers and egg-plant for frying in egg and 
crumbs or in batter, or for scalloping, stuffing, and 
baking. 


MELONS 135 


MELONS CURRIED 


Use for curries, also, the half ripe melons. Peel and 
cut in small cubes or slices nearly an inch thick and fry 
carefully in a little butter. Prepare the curry in another 
saucepan, frying an onion (sliced) in a tablespoon of butter 
until a golden brown. Add to this the fried melon; 
sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of curry powder (or quantity 
preferred) and let cook up, covered. A little water or 
milk may be added if necessary. 


MELONS FOR SALADS 


The fully ripe fruit is delicious for salads, cut in cubes 
and served alone or with other fruits, as tomatoes or 
peaches or bananas. Serve with mayonnaise plain or 
flavoured with some liqueur or French dressing to which has 
been added a suspicion of Maraschino, or serve with whipped 
cream. (See Salads in Introductory Recipes.) 


CITRON MELON IN JELLY 


There is an unusual quantity of pectin in the citron 
melon which makes it of practical value in jelly making. 
Where fruit does not readily jell the addition of citron melon 
(proportion varying with fruit used, half and half; one- 
third, etc.), will make this end far more quickly at- 
tainable. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

The melons of the nutmeg group stand half way between 
the vegetable marrow so valued by Europeans, (near 
which must be placed the squash and pumpkin), and the 
luscious sweetened melons which are classed with fruits, 
so that they may be used far more generally than usually 
supposed in sweetened croquettes, as for apples, and with 
cheese or nuts or eggs, as with vegetables, all of these, of 
course, giving meat value. 


CHAPTER XIII 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 


HE little fruits classed scientifically or popularly as 
“berries” form a most exquisite group, beautiful 
in variety of form and colouring, delightful in rich fragrance 
or bouquet and in delicacy of flavour, appealing to and 
stimulating the appetite through every esthetic sense; 
cooling, in refreshing the whole system; subtly satisfying 
the intellectual and physical natures alike. The chief 
members of the group, whether wild or cultivated, are the 
strawberry, blackberry, and raspberry (with subdivisions) ; 
the huckle- or blue- or whortleberry; the mulberry, 
cranberry, gooseberry, and currant; the elderberry and 
barberry. 
THE STRAWBERRY 


The strawberry, or Fragaria ( Nat. Ord. Rosacee), while 
in its wild state not perhaps so lavishly generous with its 
riches as is the blackberry over both southern and north- 
ern latitudes, yet, speaking broadly, grows from the Arctic 
to the Antarctic zones; the mountains of Switzerland and 
even the Himalayas not too high or chill but that it may 
be found nestling close to Mother Earth, giving out 
beauty and charm in unexpected spots. It was, undoubt- 
edly, this shy, rich sweetness—so free from tearing thorns— 
which stamped from the first with indelible favouritism 
the wild crimson berry, and its being found so amenable to 
cultivation, (therefore making its season long, from the 
width of belt from which it may be shipped,) gave it con- 
tinued first rank in favour. 

136 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 137 


Its generic name of Fragaria was given it by the old 
Romans because of its inviting perfume. Its second 
baptismal name of ‘‘ straw,” by which we of to-day designate 
it, had also ancient origin of which, however, two ex- 
planations are given, one tradition asserting that it came 
from the Anglo-Saxon “‘strae,”’ meaning to stray (because 
of the vine’s wandering habits), and from which we derive 
directly our English verb ‘‘stray.’’ But the name is 
also said to have come from the old English custom of placing 
straw under the plants to mulch or to prevent the fruit 
from rotting. 

It is not everyone who can eat strawberries, unfortunately, 
as their decided and peculiar form of acids does not agree 
with everyone, but these people are exceptions and should 
know that the addition of a little Cayenne pepper will not 
unpleasantly detract from the fruit and will very often 
prevent difficulties in the digesting of them. They con- 
tain such proportion of citric and malic acids and salts of 
lime that in general they are considered excellent for those 
of gouty or bilious temperament and even when acids are 
supposedly contra-indicated they prove acceptable to the 
system if taken with a small quantity of bicarbonate of 
potash (see Note 1: Preface). Holbrook states that 
the use of this berry cured Wilson, the ornithologist, of 
chronic malarial fever after the doctors had failed. An- 
other celebrated cure, handed down among strawberry 
devotees, was that of the botanist Linnzus from gout, and 
patients of lesser note have been entirely relieved of liver 
troubles and maladies associated with the respiratory 
organs, particularly the lungs. One Swiss physician re- 
ported as restricting patients with serious pulmonary 
diseases to an almost exclusive diet of strawberries. 

Wild strawberries are more readily digestible than al- 
most any berry known and the red drops, like heart’s 


138 FRUIT RECIPES 


blood, seem to be congealed sunshine with all tne therapeutic 
value of the sun concentrated in them. It seems a pity that 
they are comparatively rare and not usually to be bought 
in open market, although if they were to be had at every 
corner grocery most of their healing agency would have 
departed. Only by gathering them in their native haunts 
may all this value be given and received. 


THE BLACKBERRY 


If the strawberry, with its combined tartness, sweetness, 
brilliance yet shyness of beauty may be regarded as a 
feminine type the blackberry may as truly be said to possess 
masculine characteristics. The blackberry vine’s vigour, 
its happy-go-lucky, sturdy habit of growth, its wandering 
prodigality, its riotous, rollicking insistence of right-to-be, 
and thorny defence against aggression are marked traits 
(modified, of course, by training) of the ‘‘eternal boy.”’ 
The blackberry and strawberry might well be considered 
brother and sister since both belong to the Rose Family. 
The blackberry (Rubus) shows in its generic and ‘‘nick”’ 
names similar Roman and Anglo-Saxon associations, Rubus 
being connected with the Latin ruber (red), and ‘‘ black- 
berry’’ derived from the Anglo-Saxon blackberige and Old 
English Blackberye. ‘‘Bramble,’’ applied to both black 
and raspberries, takes its meaning from the Anglo-Saxon 
brembel, or brember, that which tears or lacerates. 

The blackberry is rather unusual among fruits as being 
astringent instead of laxative; fruit, young leaves, and roots 
all partaking of this quality. It is said to contain iron and 
from its general tonic composition effectually tones up 
the system. The Greeks made from the pressed young 
shoots of the plant a thick syrup to be given internally 
for throat, mouth, and eye troubles, but more commonly 
the berries and roots have been used for various specifics, 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 139 


particularly the roots for troubles related to dysentery. 
The sugar of the berries makes them more palatable and 
nourishing and the mild acids are cooling to the blood. 
Blackberry cordial is an excellent remedy for diarrhoea 
and blackberry wine is tonic in effect while the jams and 
syrups made from the berry are very pleasing forms of 
throat remedies. The decoction from the roots is pre- 
pared by ‘boiling down an ounce of the smaller roots, or of 
the bark of the larger, in a pint and a half of water, down 
to a pint; of which from one to two fluid-ounces may be 
given to an adult three or four times, or more frequently 
during the twenty-four hours.” (Wood & Bache: U. S. 
Dispensatory.) 

The Dewberry is but a variety, with sub-varieties, of 
blackberry, the coating of which is considered to 
resemble dew. 

THE RASPBERRY 


The Raspberry is very nearly related to the blackberry, 
a similar variety of the genus Rubus, having, again, sub- 
varieties in black and red raspberries and the wild cloud- 
berry and thimbleberry (the latter black in colour.) The 
fragrance and flavour of the red raspberry are rarely 
aromatic and delicate, but its seeds and coat are harsher 
than those of the blackberry. From this inherent rough- 
ness came its name: from the English ‘‘rasp.”” It is placed 
with the strawberry as to value in liver and gouty troubles. 
Syrup of Raspberries in various forms is considered very 
refreshing and purifying and, the seeds being removed in 
these preparations, the fruit is perhaps more wholesome 
than in other forms as well as being quite as attractive. 


LOGANBERRY 


The Loganberry is a cross between the black- and rasp- 
berry, one of the famous California hybrids. (Seed of 


140 FRUIT RECIPES 


the Aughinbaugh blackberry and pollen of Antwerp 
Raspberry.) As yet it has not been found to ship well 
and in the East does not flourish as in California, where 
the fresh berries are much liked but are perhaps improved 
with cookery. 


THE HUCKLEBERRY—CRANBERRY GROUP 


The huckleberry or whortleberry, the blueberry, bil- 
berry, or blaeberry, and cranberry are related, comprising 
in reality different groups of the Ericacee, or Heath family, 
though there is a vast difference between the mild, dark- 
hued, blue-coated berries and the crimson, acid variety 
of whortleberry and cranberry. The latest classification 
of these (F. V. Colville) is as follows: huckleberry: Gay- 
lussacia; blueberry: Vaccinium; cranberry: Oxycoccus; 
farkleberry: Batodendron; deerberry: Polycodium. The 
whortleberries and huckle- or blueberries (‘‘beyond New 
England commonly called huckleberries’’—Gray) make 
excellent jellies and jams, may be dried and preserved 
otherwise, and in some parts of Europe a spirituous 
liquor is manufactured from them. A goodly per cent. of 
citric acid is contained in some varieties of whortleberries. 

The cranberry, with its decided acids, has marked and 
valuable characteristics. It contains a large per cent. 
of citric acid and iron as well; is therefore strongly tonic 
and purifying and particularly grateful on long voyages or 
in the winter season when other berries are difficult or 
impossible to procure in fresh condition. From the 
Arctic’s southern limits cranberries reach southward, 
instinctively being used in these colder regions as an anti- 
scorbutic. In Great Britain they form part of ship-stores 
for the same purpose. They are also excellent used ex- 
ternally, as poultices, in reducing inflammation. In Siberia 
and Russia wine is made from them and in Scandinavian 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 141i 


countries the peasants make both a business and a pleasure 
of gathering cranberries in the nightless days of their 
summer season, drying them (generally on endless strings) 
against the darker, colder season to come. They may also 
be preserved in clear water in jars or bottles, uncooked, 
and cooked of course variously. 


THE MULBERRY (Moraceae) 


This berry is seldom appreciated, almost never ranked 
according to its true value as a fruit, possibly from its 
very convenience of accessibility and manipulation. 
Had it thorns it might be better loved. It was long ago 
taken from Persia to Italy and in Europe as well as Asia 
it has always been highly esteemed for its leaves as food 
for silk-worms and its wood for posts. For silk-worms 
the Moris alba (white mulberry) is chiefly known, though 
the black mulberry is also valued for the purpose. 
The black (Moris nigra) and the red (Moris rubra) mul- 
berries are sources of food and drink not to be despised; 
for these purposes, indeed, the white mulberry is not to be 
mentioned beside them. The smaller black or red mulberry, 
though not so acceptable just from the tree, makes, like 
the large, black, luscious French mulberry (which is so 
delicious uncooked), most desirable jelly, preserves, and 
drinks. It is one of the most wholesome of berries, con- 
taining much potash—therefore recommended for throat 
troubles as well as for internal complaints—and is one of 
the richest, purest, most concentrated sugar manufactories 
among fruits, in quantity of grape sugar outranked only 
by the grape and cherry, the grape having from 10.6 to 19; 
the cherrry 10.79; mulberry 9.19. (U. 8. Dispensatory). 
The mulberry is laxative, its juice grateful in fevers when 
strained from the seeds, and its tartaric acid refreshing in 
health. 


142 FRUIT RECIPES 


THE ELDERBERRY 


The elderberry is one of the richest of the whole collection 
of berries in legendary lore, in mystical and practical 
charm, each part, from roots to flowers, giving out some- 
thing of value as food or medicine, being possessed of 
indisputable medical properties, of remarkable qualities 
for flavouring or colouring, and as a food—in jelly, jams, 
etc., or wine, having unique elements of excellence. 

The elder, or Sambucus, belongs to the Natural Order 
Caprijoliacee, or Honeysuckle Family, and its name, 
Sambucus, seems a fit one throughout the centuries, since. 
it was taken from the old Greek name for one of the ancient 
musical instruments and it has been much used in Scot- 
land and England for the manufacture of certain music- 
giving instruments, while boys all over the world know 
its inestimable value for whistles, and for pop-guns, or 
‘‘pipes.”’ Tradition says that it was once a tree but 
cursed and dwarfed by the hanging of Judas upon it. 
Other tradition goes further in claiming it as that of 
which the Cross was made, and even the mistletoe cannot 
lay greater claim to these storied reasons for being 
stunted. 

The Sambucus ebulus, or Dwarf Elderberry, rather rare 
in the British Isles and almost unknown in America, 
possesses strong characteristics which make it desirable 
to avoid save under medical direction. In America the 
red-berried elder (Sambucus pubens) grows only in 
rocky woods of the more northern portions, but the black 
elderberry commonly known (S. Canadensis), with its 
striking, graceful clusters of flowers or fruit, is quite cos- 
mopolitan (though, like the red-berried elder, masquerading 
under various nicknames, as ‘‘bourtree’’), the black varieties 
being virtually the same. 

However unbelievable may be the many traditions and 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 143 


charms connected with or said to be worked by the elder, 
one may approach understanding of the origin of these 
beliefs when even in these ‘‘enlightened”’ days it is claimed 
in Scotland and England that the leaves give out so strong 
and narcotic an odour or power that it is unsafe to sleep in 
their shade, and when, in America, the apparently innocent 
young leaf-buds are declared too much of a risk to put into 
the mouth. Possessed of such elements of possible dan- 
ger, it might readily have once been considered its powers 
of evil were available for charms. The United States 
Dispensatory remarks (in list of Unofficial Remedies): 
“The juice of the berries has been used as an alterative 
in rheumatism, also asa laxative. The inner bark is in large 
doses emetic. It has been employed in dropsy, epilepsy, 
and various chronic diseases. The leaves are not without 
activity and the young leaf-buds are said to be ‘‘a violent 
and even unsafe purgative.’”’ The juice, also, of the root 
has been used in dropsy. There is so great an abundance 
of citric acid in the scarlet-fruited elder (Sambucus race- 
mosa rubra), native of the south of Europe and Siberia, 
that M. Thibier Thibierge of Versailles proposed its use 
as a source of the commercial supply. Wine is made from 
both the flowers and berries (of the common black elder), 
the former rarely delicate, declared similar in bouquet and 
flavour to Frontignac. The juice of the berry is used to 
colour and adulterate other wines, and the berries supposed 
to improve ale, currant wine and jellies by their addi- 
tion. Formerly they were made up into vinegars and 
sauces for meats; the flowers into ointment and elder- 
flower water (the latter still used in perfumes and medicinal 
decoctions); the tiniest blooms stripped and separated 
to mix in with and lighten pancakes or muffins, and in 
France, as packing or filling for certain delicate apples, 
they still flavour richly and spicily and beautify a 


144 FRUIT RECIPES 


matter-of-fact present. The clustered, unopened buds of 
the flowers, and sometimes the unripe berries, were in 
olden days pickled to serve in the fashion of capers and a 
syrup or ‘‘rob’’ of the berries was considered excellent 
as a laxative, diuretic and cough medicine for children. 
Cooked, the young shoots seem to have none of the purga- 
tive qualities of the immature leaf-buds and the fruit un- 
cooked is eaten in quantity with relish by Indians of west- 
ern America although to whites its peculiar flavour makes 
it seem lacking until cooked with some form of spice or 
the acid of other fruit, 


CURRANTS AND GOOSEBERRIES 


The dried currants of commerce, so favourite an in- 
gredient in cakes, puddings, and other dishes, are not re- 
lated to the garden currant (although once in a while the 
latter is also dried for domestic purposes), being in reality 
a kind of raisin or grape (Passule minores) raised and dried 
in the Levant and exported from there in large quantities, 
as Corinthian raisins or Zante currants (see Currants 
under Grapes). Currants proper belong to the genus 
Ribes, of the Grossulariacee, these being the spine- 
less, twin-relative of the spiny gooseberry. Ribes is sup- 
posed to be an Arabic name and, as a matter of fact, the cur- 
rant grows wild in Asia, Europe, and parts of America. 
The name “currant” is, in Australia, applied to other 
(native) berries of that continent as well as to the culti- 
vated, garden currants introduced from England. 

There are red, white, black, and yellow garden currants, 
variously valued, the red considered best for most wines, 
shrubs or vinegars, and tart jellies; the white for simple 
dessert fruit, uncooked, and the black for medicinal de- 
coctions, although the black currant is also much used in 
preserves, vinegars, etc., and in France a certain liqueur, 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 145 


Liqueur de Cassis, is manufactured from it. All currants, 
like ‘‘red gooseberries,’’ contain citric acid and there is a 
particular tonic quality in the black currant which is con- 
sidered excellent for the kidneys and bladder, for promoting 
perspiration, and for inflamed throats. Currants and 
raspberries, combined, have become famous in several forms 
and the red currant is a great addition to various fruit 
jellies. 

The gooseberry, Ribes grossularia, is especially famed 
and loved as an English garden fruit. Varieties of goose- 
berries wild are to be found in parts of Europe, Asia, and 
America, certain species growing in Japan, Siberia, India, 
and Canada, where they are made use of. Notwithstand- 
ing the general growth of the gooseberry over this wide 
expanse of territory, it seems not to have become known 
as a cultivated fruit until comparatively recent times; 
nothing definite being known regarding it until about two 
hundred years ago when attention began to be paid to it 
in Lancashire. Its name indicates an earlier French 
“residence”? or transition period and claim upon French 
interest since ‘‘gooseberry’’ is supposed to be a corruption 
of the French “‘ grosezile,’’ from which is derived the Scotch 
‘“‘srozart,”’ or “‘grozet.”” In some places in England it 
is known as ‘“‘feaberry.’’ Pies and tarts made from it have 
become famous in rhyme and the annals of English domestic 
life would not be complete without frequent mention of 
the gooseberry, most delicious in its perfection. - English 
it essentially now is, having attained its fullest beauty 
and richness in England and being comparatively little 
known in its most luscious form elsewhere, unless we ex- 
cept France. Gooseberry wine vies with champagne. In 
various preserves and vinegars it is excellent and it may be 
kept for a long time in the fresh state sealed in heated 
bottles. 


146 FRUIT RECIPES 


THE BARBERRY 


The beautiful Barberry (Nat. Ord. Berberidacee), 
with its brilliant red clusters of minute, juicy ovals 
of pulp, is known all over the world in temperate and colder 
climates except in Australia—either as the common Bar- 
berry or the Ash-leaved Berry, the latter, however, being 
insipid or unpleasant in flavour. The former, Berberis 
vulgaris, is not only extremely ornamental but its tartness 
is of decided value and so recognised, scientifically, in 
France, where malic acid is manufactured from the berries. 
A certain, smaller per cent. of citric acid is associated with 
the malic acid but the latter is its chief source of acidity 
and value. 

These loose bunches of little oval berries are generally 
too acid and astringent to be pleasing as food in their 
natural condition of ripeness (admitting exceptions), but 
cooked, a syrup, preserves, jelly, and jam of fine flavour 
and colour are made from them, and in tarts they rival 
the cranberry. Also, some varieties are susceptible of 
being dried in the sun and kept indefinitely for future use, 
The bark and the root are used in tropical countries for 
tanning and dyeing yellow. Their juice is refrigerant and 
anti-scorbutic and they are used in fevers for their cooling 
effect and in diarrhceas a preparation of them is fre- 
quently prescribed by some physicians because of the malic 
acid which so effectively kills germs of this type. In 
larger doses they are cathartic; in small ones tonic and 
laxative. 


THE MAY APPLE 


Another member of the Berberidacee is the American 
May Apple (Podophyllum peltatum), sometimes called 
mandrake but not related to the mandrake proper (Man- 
dragora officinarum, Nat. Ord. Solanacee, or the Night- 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 147 


shade Family) or the mandrake of the ancients, and the 
May Apple is the only species of the genus. It is also 
poisonous by report, so far as the plant itself is concerned, 
but the root is used medicinally, though too violent in nature 
to be safe except under medical direction. The fruit is 
not poisonous, however, and’ ‘‘may be eaten freely with 
impunity ’’ (Wood and Bache). It deserves to be ex- 
perimented with further, its flavour being delicious for 
marmalades. 
THE CHECKERBERRY 


The names: Checkerberry, Boxberry, Partridge Berry, 
or Wintergreen, are familiarly applied to two different 
berries, one the Gaultheria, of the Heath Family, the other 
the Mitchella repens, or Winter Clover, of the Madder 
Family. It is the former from which is distilled the oil of 
wintergreen and whose berries are so enticingly gay and 
spicy. The flowers of the Mitchella are pretty and scented 
but the berries, though edible and keeping all through 
the winter, become dry and tasteless. They possess 
medicinal virtues in being tonic and soothing and have 
been used in dropsy and other troubles. 


THE WINTER CHERRY 


The Winter Cherry, or Physalis, although of the Night- 
shade Family (Solanacee) is one of most picturesque of 
real food berries, a sweet, succulent morsel of yellow, green, 
purple, or red, hiding away in a dainty green or yellow nest, 
unsuspected by those unfamiliar with it. This Ground or 
Winter Cherry is a friendly little thing, muking open over- 
tures to cultivation, running wild by inherited habit but often 
entering gardens of its own accord and remaining, when 
encouraged,.as a permanent resident. There are numerous 
species, among them the Alkekengi, or “Strawberry To- 
mato,” or ‘‘Love Apple,’’ and the ‘‘ Peruvian Gooseberry,” 


148 FRUIT RECIPES 


or Physalis pubescens, and they are known, wild or culti- 
vated, all over the world, from the tropics of America and 
Asia northward, sometimes found in Scotland and other 
damp, cold latitudes. The Winter Cherry is excellent 
either in natural condition or ‘“‘put up,’’ and may be 
cooked by any method of which the general berry group 
is susceptible—with most satisfactory results to the palate. 
Also, this little ‘‘ Winter Cherry’’ is ‘‘good for the health,” 
being as cooling as its name. It acts wholesomely upon 
the kidneys and has been valued medicinally in other ways, 
as for gout and fevers. 


HACKBERRY AND HAWS 


The Nettle Tree, the Celtis, of the Nat. Ord. Ulmacee, 
(related to the elms) should be mentioned in the group of 
berries as its fruit, known in America as the Hackberry 
and Sugarberry, is edible and of most pleasing sweetness 
and aromatic flavour. It is at its best, like the persimmon, 
after frost. 

The Hawthorn or Crategus (of the Malacee)—known 
in varying forms over the world: as the White Thorn or 
English “May,” the Blackthorn, the Yellow or Summer 
Thorn—the Scarlet Haw; with yellow, orange, purple, or 
red fruit—is more useful than is generally known. The 
fruit varies in size and flavour, but there are a number of 
the haws which make a pleasing breakfast or dessert- 
fruit, being used this way in the south of Europe and the 
Levant, and also in the manufacture of hawthorn liquor, 
an intoxicant, and as the basis of cookery concoctions, as 
tarts, proving their delicious possibilities. (The Viburnum 
pruntjolium, of the Honeysuckle Family, related distantly 
to the elderberry, is sometimes called the black haw or 
sloe or stag-bush, though the two latter terms belong more 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 149 


properly to the Prunus spinosa. It has not the pleasing 
qualities of the hawthorn “haws.” The Viburnum, how- 
ever, is considered very valuable medicinally, being a 
nervine and tonic.) 


THE SERVICE BERRY (Malacee) 


The Service or “Sarvice”’ Berry, is of interest in a peculiar 
way to Americans, in connection with the Mormons, who 
have for it a real affection since in their earlier days, when 
hardships and privations were continual, the Service Berry 
provided sometimes their entire food. Even when this ex- 
treme condition did not prevail the Service Berry constitu- 
ted a solid food value which Utah will not forget. The New 
International Dictionary gives perhaps the best and most 
concise description of what otherwise might be a confusing 
matter, so connected are various forms of the Service Berry 
or Service Tree. ‘Service Berry: A name given to 
several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as Pyrus 
domestica, and Pyrus torminalis, the various species of 
mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American Shad-bush. 
They have clusters of small, edible, apple-like berries. In 
British America the name is especially applied to that of 
several species of the shad-bush.” ‘“‘Shad-Bush: (Bot.) 
A name given to the North American shrubs or small 
trees of the rosaceous genus Amelanchier (A. Canadensis , 
and A. Alnifolia). Their white racemose blossoms open 
in April or May when the shad appear and the edible ber- 
ries (pomes) ripen in June or July, whence they are called 
June Berries. The Plant is also called Service tree and 
June Berry.”’ Thus the connection is shown between 
the foreign Service Tree (of which the Sorb is a variety), 
the American Mountain Ash, Shad Bush, and Service 
Berries, and the romantic Scotch Rowan. The spotted 
fruit of the Sorb is improved by keeping, and in a mellowed 


150 FRUIT RECIPES 


state is regularly shipped to the London market from 
English country towns. This mature stage or over-ripeness 
is also necessary for the best flavour of the true Service 
Tree fruit (known as Service or June Berries in Savoy). 
A drink similar to cider is made from these berries and when 
the latter are dried and powdered they are valued as an 
astringent, used in curing diarrhcea. The Mountain Ash 
contains a large quantity of malic acid, of which fact chem- 
ists often take advantage in the manufacture of the com- 
mercial form. The berries are available for food, as are 
those of the rowan, which are used in tarts, (and every other 
dish adapted to acid berries), in Scotland and in Europe. 

The Buffalo Berry (Sheperdia argenta) is a fruit par- 
ticularly known in the West, used commonly as food. The 
‘ names indicate something of its wild associations, and 
originated in the custom of serving it as a sauce with buffalo 
meat. Like the barberry it is tart and is used in much the 
same manner. 


RECIPES 


STRAWBERRIES SERVED WHOLE, UNCOOKED 


These berries may be served unhulled, to be dipped in 
sugar and eaten with the fingers. Place in the heart of 
head lettuce or other bed of green, if to be served from a 
large receptacle, or on lettuce or other large single leaves 
if from individual dishes. If served hulled, strawberries 
should have sugar placed on them at least an hour before 
serving. The addition of a cup of orange or pineapple 
juice will add to the flavour. 


‘STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 


The simpler the form of the ‘“‘cake” the more delicious 
will be the result, although many people prefer a sponge 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES Ist 


or cup cake with the berries. For a plain shortcake make 
a sweet biscuit dough (see Introductory Recipes), rolling 
out an inch thick, cutting in diamonds or squares or rounds, 
and baking like biscuits. These may be readily broken 
open (never cut) and the mashed berries,sweetened (to- 
gether with some whole ones) mixed and heaped upon them 
for individual serving. Or the dough may be rolled thin- 
ner, spread with butter, folding over once and baking in 
either one sheet or individual form, the butter facilitating 
the opening of the cake. Or single, inch-thick sheets may 
be made and heaped in layers, using the crushed berries for 
filling, the whole ones for the top. Another form of short- 
cake is to add to the biscuit dough two well-beaten eggs. 
Whipped cream may be heaped over the whole berries 
used on the top of any form of the cake. 


STRAWBERRY BATTER CUPS 


Stir one pint of sugar through a quart of slightly mashed 
berries. Make a batter with one and a half cups of flour 
in which has been sifted a half-teaspoon of salt and one heap- 
ing teaspoon of baking-powder. Mix with this a table- 
spoon of butter, two beaten eggs, and one cup of milk. 
Place a layer of the batter in buttered cups or moulds, then 
a layer of the berries, etc., until two-thirds full. Steam 
or bake for forty minutes. Serve with whipped cream 
or strawberry sauce 


STRAWBERRY SAUCE 


+ « Cream together one cup of sugar and a half-cup of but- 
ter; add the whipped white of an egg, then one cup of 
‘mashed or chopped berries. Place on ice several hours 
before serving. 


152 FRUIT RECIPES 


STRAWBERRY DUMPLINGS 
Line muffin rings with thin-rolled sweet biscuit dough 
and bake quickly. When browned fill the shells with ripe 
strawberries, sprinkle sugar on top, and serve. Or make 
like conventional dumplings. (See ‘“‘The Apple.’’) 


STRAWBERRY TART 
Line sides of large or small pans or baking dishes with 
pastry and bake a light brown. Fill then with strawberry 
jam or fresh berries and serve (dished) with a meringue or 
whipped cream. Or finish with lattice strips as for English 
Apple Tart and brown. 


STRAWBERRY FLOAT 


Heat a quart of milk with one cup of sugar and a pinch 
of salt. When at boiling point add one tablespoon of 
cornstarch which has been dissolved in a little of the milk 
(cold). Cook for three minutes, when add the beaten yolks 
of three eggs; whip together two minutes and remove 
from stove, letting cool. Meantime have ready a pint of 
sweet berries mashed with one-half cup of sugar. Let 
stand an hour then strain. Whip the whites of the eggs, 
and two tablespoons powdered sugar, then the juice from 
the berries; place on top of the custard when the latter is 
ice cold and serve quickly. 


STRAWBERRY PYRAMID 


Have cooked one pint of flaky rice. Place a layer of it 
on the bottom of glass serving-dish, spreading with a table- 
spoon of butter. Alternate this with layers of whole straw- 
berries (sugared) until a pyramid is formed. Serve with 
cream. 

ESCALLOPED STRAWBERRIES 

Alternate layers of strawberries and whipped cream in 

glass serving-dish. Chill on ice and serve. 


ba 
A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 153 


STRAWBERRY WHIPS 


Make as for Apple Snow, allowing one cupful of straw- 
berries and one cup of sugar to each white of egg. Mash 
the berries well, then proceed as for Apple Snow. Serve 
in sherbet cups. 


STRAWBERRY ICE AND SHERBET 


See Introductory Recipes for Ices. 


FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 


Let whole strawberries stand for an hour with generous 
quantity of sugar, then pack in freezer and let stand in ice 
and salt five hours. 


STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 


Allow a quart of berries, mashed and sweetened, to each 
quart of mixed milk and cream scalded. Freeze. (Also 
see Introductory Recipes.) 


STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED WHOLE 


Simmer for twenty minutes mashed strawberries, adding 
no sugar. Strain. To each pint of this juice allow a pint 
of sugar.. Heat sugar and add to the syrup when it has 
been replaced on stove and is at boiling point. Skim and 
let boil till thick and pour over whole, hulled berries ready 
in heated glasses; or, pour first the syrup into the glasses, 
then drop the berries in the scalding syrup (not too many 
to each glass). When cold cover with brandied paper and 
set in the sun daily for a month. 


STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 


Use the best berries that they may need no washing. 
Allow a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit and place 


154 FRUIT RECIPES 


together over a slow fire with no water. Do not mash 
in stirring and when skimming is required set on back of 
stove that scum may rise before trying to remove it. When 
sugar is dissolved boil fast for thirty minutes; remove 
fruit; place in jars; boil syrup five minutes longer, then 
pour over the berries and seal. 


TO SEAL STRAWBERRIES WITHOUT COOKING 
(Old-Fashioned Recipe) 


Take firm berries and weigh, allowing one-quarter pound 
of sugar for each pound of fruit. Place sugar and berries 
in layers in earthenware dishes and let stand in cool spot 
over night. Drain off juice without breaking berries and 
weigh juice. Deduct this weight from the weight of the 
fruit. Weigh out as much sugar as the fruit weighs with- 
out the juice (deducting the quarter-pound of sugar already 
used). Place berries and sugar in layers in large-necked 
jars or bottles which must be corked and wired very tight. 
Then place them in outer vessel of cold water and let latter 
come to a boil. When this exact point is reached remove 
and seal the corked bottle air-tight. These bottles should 
be looked at for six weeks daily, turning them to keep fruit 
from moulding, but carefully—not to break fruit. 


SPICED STRAWBERRIES 


Strawberries may be spiced after making into jams as 
below. 


STRAWBERRY JAMS 


Boil mashed berries in their own juice till well reduced, 
when add heated sugar, three-fourths to each pint of fruit 
or pound for pound, cooking down slowly till of desired 
thickness. Strawberry jam is usually too sweet. To 
offset this do not be afraid to add lemon juice, pie plant, or 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 155 


other tart fruit. Also a very delicious variety may be had 
by using with the strawberries equal quantity of goose- 
berry, fig, date, pineapple, cherry, currant, red raspberry, 
or orange or lemon marmalade. 


STRAWBERRY JELLY 


Strawberry jelly may be made with gelatine, of the 
strawberry juice alone, if tart; or, if sweet and full ripe, with 
red currant juice or lemon juice added. Heat berries in 
double boiler till juice is free, mashing them well. For 
each pint of resulting, strained juice, allow the juice of a 
small lemon or one-half cup red currant juice, and for each 
pint of mixed juice, one pound of sugar. 


STRAWBERRY SHRUB No. 1 


Dissolve five ounces tartaric acid in two quarts of water 
and pour it over twelve pounds hulled berries (in earthen- 
ware), letting stand forty-eight hours, with plate to keep 
them down. Strain through flannel bag, then add to 
, juice one and one-half pounds granulated sugar for each pint 
of juice. Stir till dissolved; bottle; cork and keep in cool 
place. (Do not seal corks.) Add two and one-half tea- 
spoons of this to each glass of cold water when serving. 


STRAWBERRY SHRUB No. 2 


Make as above up to bottling point, when pour it over 
ten pounds more of berries; let stand twenty-four hours; 
strain and add sugar, a pound for each pint. Boil then 
five minutes, then simmer five more, and bottle. 


STRAWBERRY WINE 


Scaid berries; press and strain juice; allow to each quart 
two pounds sugar and one quart soft water. Ferment as 


156 FRUIT RECIPES 


for currant wine and leave cask undisturbed for six months 
before using. 
STRAWBERRY BRANDY 


To eight quarts mashed berries add four pounds loaf 
sugar and one gallon brandy. Pour into a four-gallon jug, 
tying cheesecloth over the mouth, and let stand three weeks 
before corking. Bottle after six months. 


STRAWBERRY VINEGAR 


To one gallon of strawberries take four pounds sugar. 
Mash together; add two gallons soft water and place in 
warm spot to ferment. 


TO DRY STRAWBERRIES 


Spread the berries on plates, sprinkling sugar over them 
and placing in the sun, protecting with netting as for apples. 

For Strawberry Soufflé, Gelatine, Fritters, etc., see 
Introductory Recipes and other fruits. 


BLACKBERRY JAM. No. 1 


Take equal weight of blackberries and currants, adding 
pound for pound of sugar (and fruit); no water; cooking 
slowly together till sugar is dissolved, when boil fast for 
thirty minutes. 


BLACKBERRY JAM No. 2 


If blackberries alone are used take but three-fourths 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit and proceed as above. 


BLACKBERRY JELLY 


Extract juice as from strawberries; allow one pint heated 
sugar to each pint of juice. May take twenty minutes to 
jell. 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 157 


BLACKBERRIES PRESERVED 


Allow equal weight of sugar and fruit; place in jars in 
layers and let stand over night. Juice should not over- 
flow, but if lacking fillup. (Let fruit be three inches from 
tops.) Cork and wire or screw on tops, letting come to 
boil in water bath. Let remain five minutes; seal tight 
and place in cooler spot till cold. 

Blackberries and strawberries or pieplant may be put 
up together. 

PICKLED BLACKBERRIES 


Allow three tablespoons fruit vinegar to,each quart of 
berries; also one cup of sugar. Boil with the sugar and . 
vinegar a half-teaspoon each of cassia buds, mace and cloves 
(in bags). Add berries and cook slowly twenty minutes. 
Seal while hot. 

BLACKBERRY CATSUP 


Cover berries with boiling water; simmer ten minutes; 
press and strain juice, for each quart adding one-half 
teaspoon mace, cinnamon, white mustard and pepper. 
Reduce to one-fourth quantity, then add strong vinegar 
till of consistency liked. Bottle and seal while hot. 


BLACKBERRY VINEGAR 


Allow two gallons of water and a half-pound of sugar 
to each gallon of mashed blackberries. Mix and place in 
cask, with tablespoon of yeast. Set in warm place and 
shake every few days. May be drained off in three months 
to get rid of pulp or new holes bored in cask to prevent 
inconvenience. 


BLACKBERRY WINE No. 1 


For each quart of fully ripe fruit mashed and placed in 
tub, allow a quart of boiling (soft) water. Pour on berries 


158 FRUIT RECIPES 


and let stand till next day, stirring once in a while. 
Then press out, strain and measure juice, allowing a half- 
pound of sugar to each quart of the liquid (first placing 
sugar in a cask and straining juice into it). Stir till dis- 
solved, then let cask remain unstopped till fermentation is 
over. At this point stir in the beaten whites of four eggs 
or a half-ounce of gum arabic dissoived in a little water. 
Leave open till next day, when it may be bunged. Will be 
ready to bottle in two months. 


BLACKBERRY WINE No. 2 


Scald berries; press and strain juice, allowing for each 
quart of juice two quarts of soft water and three pounds of 
white coffee sugar. Keep bung open till fermentation 
ceases, when stop, and place barrel in cool place for eight 
months, then bottle. 


BLACKBERRY CORDIAL No. 1 


Crush and strain berries, allowing for each quart one- 
half pound loaf sugar, a teaspoon each of cloves and cin- 
namon (powdered) and a grated nutmeg. Boil all together 
fifteen minutes; cool, and for each quart of syrup add one- 
half pint brandy. Bottle. Dose: From one teaspoon to 
wineglassful. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL No. 2 


To three pounds uncooked berries allow one pound white 
sugar and let stand twelve hours. Then press and strain, 
adding one-third rum or brandy and allowing one teaspoon 
allspice (powdered) to each quart of cordial. It must be 
bottled some time before it is fit for use. 


BLACKBERRY BRANDY 


Mix equal parts of fruit juice and brandy, for each gallon 
allowing one pound loaf sugar, 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 159 


BLACKBERRY SLUMP OR STEAMED PUDDING 


1. Rub together two cups flour, one-half cup sugar, two- 
thirds cup milk, one egg, a tablespoon of butter, and two* 
cups of berries. Sift through flour two teaspoons baking 
powder and pinch of salt. Stir in berries last thing, then 
place in buttered mould or bucket; cover well and steam 
two hours. Serve hot with milk or sweet sauce. 

2. Fill tight-covered vessel half full of hot, stewed ber- 
ries; cover with biscuit dough; cover tight and bake, or 
steam in boiling water. 


BLACKBERRY PIE 


Line sides only of pan or dish and make like huckle- 
berry pie. Huckleberries or pieplant may be used in equal 
proportion with the blackberries. 


BERRY MUFFINS 


Into a pint of flour in which have been sifted two tea- 
spoons baking-powder and half-teaspoon salt, rub one-half 
cup butter or shortening, then add one cup milk, one table- 
spoon sugar and a beaten egg. When mixed well add one 
cup berries and bake in muffin tins twenty minutes in 
rather brisk oven. ~ 


BLACKBERRY FARINA 


Wash, stew and mash a quart of berries (with two table- 
spoons water) then add one teacup farina, a pinch of salt, 
and cook fifty minutes in double boiler. Place in wet 
moulds to harden. For breakfast slice and serve with 
cream. 

BLACKBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Place stale sponge cake around edges of serving dish, 

filling centre with berries. Heap whipped cream over the 


top. 


160 FRUIT RECIPES 


TO DRY BLACKBERRIES 


Dry in thin layers in sun (fruit not over ripe), proceed- 
ing as for strawberries. 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS 


For other methods of preparation see Introductory 
Recipes or adapt from other fruits. : 


RASPBERRY SOUP 


See Introductory Recipes (Fruit Soups). 


ROSE SANDWICHES 


Use thin-sliced bread. Spread with a very little butter 
(or none) adding a thin layer of cream cheese, then stiff rasp- 
berry jam. Cut the bread from each corner (diagonally) 
across, twice, forming triangles, or with cutters, in rounds. 


RASPBERRY JAM (Old English Recipe) No. 1 


To every pound of raspberries allow a pound of sugar, 
and to whatever proportion of raspberries used allow one- 
fourth weight of currants. Wash and strain currants and 
cook juice with the sugar about twenty minutes, then add 
the raspberries, whole, simmering together twenty-five 
minutes. Bottle and seal at once. 


RASPBERRY JAM No. 2 AND No. 3 


Make as for Blackberry Jam No. 1 and No. 2, or add 
equal quantity of gooseberries or strawberries. 


RASPBERRY JAM No. 4 


Weigh berries and simmer without water till reduced 
one-third, when add gradually as many pounds of heated 
sugar as there were berries (original weight). As soon as 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 161 


sugar is melted thoroughly and has boiled up once, place in 
jars and seal at once. 


RASPBERRY JELLY No. r 
Make as for Currant Jelly No. 1. 


RASPBERRY JELLY No. 2 


Make as for Currant Jelly No. 1, using, however, but one 
pint of currant juice to two of raspberries. 


BLACK RASPBERRY PUDDING 
Line a pudding-dish with a sweet biscuit dough and bake 
till a pale brown, when pour into it the stiff-beaten whites 
of four eggs, then, slowly, a cup of sugar, and last a quart 
of berries. Bake in moderate oven till done. 


RED RASPBERRY PUDDING 

Make as for Blackberry Pudding (Steamed), using the 
whipped whites of eggs in addition to yolks and serving 
with crushed raspberries sweetened well and heated just 
before serving. 

RASPBERRY ICE 

Make as for simple Introductory Recipe for Fruit Ices 
or by mixing one quart red raspberries with one pound of 
sugar, the juiceof an orange and lemon, letting stand an 
hour, straining, adding a quart of water and freezing. 


FROZEN RASPBERRIES 
Mash but do not strain the fruit. Add ta this sugar and 
let stand an hour before freezing. 
RASPBERRY SHRUB 


Pour one quart cider vinegar over two quarts red rasp- 
berries in a jar or crock and let stand three days, when mash 


162 FRUIT RECIPES 


and strain, and to each pint of juice add one pound sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, skimming well. Bottle when cold. 


RASPBERRY VINEGAR OR SHRUB (Without Sugar) 


Pour a quart of wine vinegar over three quarts of ber- 
ries and jet stand two days. Press out juice; pour over 
fresh berries and repeat twice. Last time bottle (without 
sugar). 

RASPBERRY ROYAL 


Use four quarts of best berries. Pour over them one 
quart cider vinegar and add one pound sugar, mashing all 
to a paste. Let stand in sun four hours, when strain off 
juice and add one pint brandy. Bottle, seal, and place in 
cellar. 


RASPBERRY VINEGAR (For Cooking or Table Use) 


Mix twelve pounds sugar with three gallons water and 
six quarts raspberry juice. Let fru‘t pulp stand in an- 
other gallon of water with a pound cf sugar and three 
tablespoons yeast till well worked up once, when strain 
and place with the rest of the liquor in a cask. 


RASPBERRY CORDIAL 


Fill stone jar with ripe berries; cover close and let stand 
where it will heat gently till fruit breaks of itself. Squeeze 
juice through linen bag and to each quart allow one pound 
of loaf sugar. Let all come to a boil and skim well till scum 
ceases to rise, when remove from stove and put again 
through linen bag, pouring into a crock with brandy in 
equal proportion to juice. Stir, and when cold place in 
demijohn and cork for two weeks, when, if not clear, filter, 
then bottle and seal. 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 163 


RASPBERRY WINE 


Mix together eight pounds sugar, eight quarts soft 
water, and one gallon juice of raspberries. Ferment as 
for Blackberry Wine. For a sweeter wine allow two 
quarts of water to each quart of juice and three pounds 
sugar. The berries for this must be simmered till soft in 
their own juice, strained, and the pulp washed out with a 
little additional water to be added, strained. 


RASPBERRY CATSUP 


Use a quart of vinegar to a gallon of berries. Cook 
longer than for blackberry catsup. Add one-half pound 
sugar for each quart of juice. Lemon juice may be added 
if liked. Otherwise proceed as with blackberries. 


OLD-FASHIONED WHORTLEBERRY PUDDING 


Rub a pint of flour in wita a quart of whortleberries and 
a little salt, wetting the whole with a very little water— 
about a half-cup. Tie snug in a pudding cloth with no 
room for swelling and boil two hours. Serve with a sweet 
or wine sauce. 


HUCKLEBERRY CAKE No. 1 


Cream one cup of sugar with a half-cup of butter; add 
one cup of milk, two of flour, and two teaspoons baking 
powder. Place a pint of huckleberries in 4 dish and rub 
sugar through them well, then stir into the cake and bake 
in shallow pans. 


HUCKLEBERRY CAKE No. 2 


Sift through a quart of flour a scant teaspoon of salt and 
two (heaping) of baking powder. Rub into this a table- 
spoon of shortening, two eggs, a cup of milk, and quart of 
berries well sugared, and bake quickly in a shallow pan. 
Serve with butter or cream, cutting the cake open. 


’ 


164 FRUIT RECIPES 


BLUEBERRY BREAD OR MUFFINS 


Make as above or for Blackberry Muffins, in muffin rings 
or one shallow sheet. 


HUCKLEBERRY SLUMP 


See Blackberry Slump. 


HUCKLEBERRY MUSH 


Make as for Blackberry Farina. Serve hot or 
cold (sliced). 


WHORTLEBERRY OR HUCKLEBERRY PIE 


Line the sides of baking dish or pan with paste and fill 
centre with the berries, sprinkling with sugar, adding a 
lump of butter and a tablespoon each of flour and water. 
Flavour with lemon or cranberry juice. Cover with crust 
or lattice strips and bake. 


HUCKLEBERRY JELLY 


Heat berries not yet fully ripe very slowly without water. 
Add pound for pint of sugar and juice. The perfectly 
green berries or the berries mature yet hard, and red in 
colour, may be used alone, or one-third of each (green 
and red) and one-third ripe berries to give a richer, deeper 
colour. This last combination makes a rich, tart jelly. 


HUCKLEBERRY JAM 


Cook berries in their own juice and proceed as for Rasp- 
berry Jam No. 4. A little lemon or other tart fruit juice 
may be used if only the mature berries can be secured. 
Red and black mixed are best. Or, with the huckleberries, 
use equal quantity of currants or gooseberries, 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 165 


TO CAN WHORTLEBERRIES 
See Introductory Recipe for Canning Fruits. - 


WHORTLEBERRY WINE 


Scald berries with boiling water, letting stand well 
covered in it over night. Measure in the morning and to 
each gallon allow two pounds sugar, placing in cask to 
ferment. After this ceases close bung and let stand nine 
months, when filter and bottle. This may be spiced if 
liked. 

WHORTLEBERRY VINEGAR 

To each gallon of well-crushed fruit allow a pound of 
sugar and gallon and a half of water, Let ferment as for 
other fruit vinegars. 


WHORTLEBERRY CATSUP 


To each gallon of fruit allow two quarts boiling water; 
pour over and let stand twelve hours. Press through sieve 
and to each gallon of the liquor allow one teaspoon each 
of pepper, cloves, mace, white mustard, and cinnamon. 
Simmer an hour, then strain, and to each quart allow one- 
half pound sugar. Stir together and boil. Add lemon 
juice till sufficiently tart and dilute. 


TO DRY WHORTLEBERRIES 


Dry as for strawberries. Before using soak over night. 
In cooking them add a little lemon or other tart fruit 
juice. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Pick over and wash a quart of cranberries, adding one 
and one-half cups cold water and stewing slowly about an 
hour. The tenderness and colour of the skins will indicate 
when they are done. Remave from the stove before ° 
adding sugar generously. 


166 FRUIT RECIPES 


CRANBERRY SYRUP 


Make a syrup of a pint each of sugar and water and drop 
into it the whole, uncooked berries, simmering until clear 
and tender. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 


Proceed as for Cranberry Sauce till berries are tender, 
when add a pound of sugar for each pint of juice and sim- 
mer three minutes before removing from fire. Strain 
through coarse sieve and place in wet moulds. Serve cold. 


CRANBERRY COMPOTE 


Make a heavy syrup as for Cranberry Syrup and place 
in this (while boiling) a quart of cranberries which have been 
pricked with a coarse needle (twice). Cook the berries 
and syrup together till syrup is very thick, when remove 
and serve cold. 


CRANBERRY SHORTCAKE 


Make as for Strawberry Shortcake, using recipe for Sauce 
given above, and serving with a meringue. 


CRANBERRY SPONGE 
See Introductory Recipes for ‘‘Sponge.”” Use with this 
the Syrup. 
CRANBERRY SNOW 
Make as for Apple Snow, beating in the berries sub- 


stituted in the form of strained sauce. Serve with a 
simple ‘“‘float.”’ 


CRANBERRY TART 


Make as for Gooseberry Tart, which will give variations. 
Also add a cup of raisins sometimes for a change. 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 167 


STEAMED CRANBERRY PUDDING 


Make a simple Batter Pudding (see Introductory 
Recipes) adding a cup or more of chopped, uncooked cran- 
berries, and flour to make rather stiff. Steam for two hours 
and serve with cranberry sauce. 


CRANBERRY CAKE (Frozen) 


Make as for Sauce, straining. Add three. cups of this 
to a syrup made of a pint each of sugar and water. Freeze 
partialfy, then mix in one pint of cream (whipped or plain) 
and complete the freezing. Frozen custard or ice may 
also be made with the cranberry. 


CRANBERRY BOMBE 


Cook berries as for the Compote, adding a tablespoon of 
dissolved gelatine, then cool and add a pint of whipped 
white of egg or omit gelatine and add a pint of whipped 
cream. Sweeten more heavily and freeée in a bombe or 
melon mould as for Melon Roll. Or, freeze the berries 
(cooled) partially, then line the mould with the mixture 
and fill the centre with the whipped egg or cream. 


TO KEEP CRANBERRIES (Uncooked) 


Cranberries may be dried, or may be bottled, filling up 
with cold water, then corked and placed in cool dry 
place. Sometimes a good firkin will answer the same 
purpose when examined frequently. 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CRANBERRIES 


Cranberries make an excellent Roly Poly or may be 
spiced or used as jam adjunct or the syrup in drinks 
(shrubs and cordials) ; are more susceptible of variation than 
generally supposed and, being more wholesome than al- 
most any other tart sauce, should be more widely used. 


168 FRUIT RECIPES 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MULBERRIES 


Mulbetries may be used in all ways suitable for black- 
or raspberries but are superior to them or almost any 
other fruit in the matter of jelly-making, having the rich 
colour and tartness of currant with a little more ‘ body,” 
but very tender. For shrub and rob, also, the mulberry 
has few rivals. 


MULBERRY JELLY Neo. rx 

For a most brilliant, crimson jelly, tart and firm, use 
only the hard, red, immature berries (those nearly full- 
sized). To each three quarts of berries add one quart 
cold water. Let simmer slowly together fifty minutes, 
when add a second quart of cold water and simmer again 
for an hour, mashing well the berries. The resulting juice 
should be thick and rich-looking. Have sugar ready, heat- 
ed, in another pan, and allow a pint for each pint of juice. 
Skim well. When the sugar has quite dissolved and boiled 
three minutes test it, for it may then be ready to pour into 
glasses. Five minutes is usually quite sufficient. Place in 
the sun till firm and cool. 


MULBERRY JELLY No. 2 
For a darker, sweet, jelly, use equal parte of the hard 
ted (or even the berries scarcely yet red), and fully ripe’ 
berries. Use but a pint of water with three quarts of 
berries, simmering till all juice can be extracted by mashing 
in the kettle. Strain well and proceed as above. 


MULBERRY MARMALADE AND JAM 


These may be made from the berries used for jelly, in 
which case the stems must be clipped before cooking, but 
they are richer to be made with fresh, uncooked berries. 
For Marmalade mash the pulp and put through coarse 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 169 


sieve, return to fire with equal measure of sugar, and cook 
till of desired consistency. For the Jam simmer the ber- 
ries in their own juice till tender but whole. Add sugar as 
above and cook till thick as desired. 


MULBERRY WINE 


Shake the ripe or partly ripe berries from tree on to clean 
sacking or sheeting and place in a tub where they may be 
well pounded and mashed. Strain, and to each gallon of 
juice add three pounds of sugar, placing in a cask with open 
bung. This should ferment and be fit for racking off into 
another cask in six weeks. Will be fit for bottling and use 
in eight months. 


MULBERRY BRANDY 


4 
To each quart of juice allow a quart of brandy and one 
pound of sugar. Let stand six weeks, then filter and bottle. 


ROB OF ELDER 


Boil the juice of elderberries with spices; one quart of 
juice to one tablespoon each of cloves, nutmeg, and cinna- 
mon. At the end of a half hour strain and add one-half 
pound loaf sugar. Boil and skim again. Let cool, add 
a half-pint of “fourth” brandy, and bottle. Or first make 
a heavy syrup of juice and sugar, then spice lightly with 
élove alone. Seal while hot. 


SYRUP OF ROB OF ELDER (For Coughs) 


To a pint of juice from elderberries add a pint of molasses 
and boil twenty minutes, stitring all the while. When 
quite cold add three-fourths teacup of brandy for each 
quart. 


170 FRUIT RECIPES 


ELDERBERRY WINE No.1 


Strain the juice of crushed berries, adding for six quarts 

of juice a half-gallon of water. Use three pounds 

-of sugar to each gallon of the liquid. Let ferment in a 

cask or open earthen jar, filling up as it evaporates. When 

fermentation ceases stop well and set aside for eight months 
before racking off. 


ELDERBERRY WINE No. 2 (Spiced) 


Boil five gallons elderberries with same amount of rain- 
water. Strain and add twenty-three pounds white sugar 
with four ounces red (or crude) tartar and to each gallon 
allow a dessertspoon of strong yeast. Add one-half ounce 
each of ginger, nutmeg, mace, and cloves with one and a 
half ounces bitter almonds. Let ferment and when this 
is over close cask tight, racking it off later at convenience. 


ELDER BLOSSOM WINE (Home-brewed Frontignac) 


Allow a gallon of water to each quart of stripped flowers, 
and to each gallon of water three pounds of sugar. Make 
a good syrup of sugar and water, skimming well, and pouring 
while boiling over the flowers. To each gallon of this 
liquor add the juice of one lemon and a heaping dessert- 
spoon of ‘‘home-brewed hop-yeast,” stirring thoroughly. 
Place in wooden or earthen receptacle, covered with a 
heavy cloth, and let ferment three days. Then strain and 
add the beaten white of one egg, stirring well through the 
liquid. Allow for each gzlion of wine a little over a pound 
of raisins, chopping them and placing on the bottom of 
the cask. On them pour the wine; close the bung, and in 
six months it will be found ready for use. 


ELDERBERRY BRANDY 


For each gallon of berries allow a gallon of brandy and let’ 
stand a month before using. Spice may be added if wished. 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 171 


ELDER-FLAVOURED ALE 


Allow a bushel of the berries to a cask of ale and eight 
ounces each of cinnamon, candied lemon or orange peel, 
nutmeg, mace, cloves, and ginger. 


ELDERBERRY CATSUP (For Fish or Flavouring Meat Sauces) 


Place a gallon of ripe berries in a jar and pour over them 
one gallon boiling vinegar, letting stand in this over night 
on back of warm stove. In the morning strain and place 
the vinegar in preserving kettle to heat. Crush and rub 
berries through sieve and add to the vinegar a teaspoon 
each of grated nutmeg, clove and cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoon each salt and ginger, and two blades of mace. Boil 
for ten minutes, then bottle (spice and all) while hot. Let 
stand five or six weeks, then strain; re-heat to boiling 
point and re-bottle. 


ELDERBERRY JELLY 


This may be made of the elderberries alone, plain, spiced, 
or with lemon juice added, or half and half, with green or 
ripe grapes (former preferably), gooseberries, or currants. 


ELDER-FLOWER PANCAKES AND JUNKET 


The finest flowers of the elder blossoms, stripped, may 
be whipped lightly into pancakes or muffins just before 
baking, a half-cupful to each ‘‘batch”’ of ordinary quan- 
tity This gives both lightness and flavour. A plain 
junket should have added one-fourth part flowers to 
quantity of cream or milk used. 


ELDERBERRY TARTS 


The elderberry is equal to the huckleberry for tarts 
but should have spices or lemon added to flavour. 


172 FRUIT RECIPES 


ELDERBERRIES DRIED 
Sun-dry the berries as for strawberries. (In some parts 
of Europe peasants use these in soups through the winter.) 
ELDER-FLOWER WATER 
To five pounds of flowers take one gallon water and one- 
half ounce rectified spirits. Distil off a half-gallon. 
WHITE ELDER OINTMENT 


Boil equal weight of elder flowers and fresh sweet lard 
or suet and strain through a cloth into boxes or jars. This 
is considered a cooling application. 


PRIED BARBERRIES 


Dry as for other berries in a loose layer in the sun. 


BARBERRIES PRESERVED (Cold) 


Place bunches of barberries in jars (uncooked); fill up 
with cold molasses, and seal tight. 


PRESERVED BARBERRIES COOKED 


Place berries in double boiler for two hours ar till heated 
through. Remove and weigh. Allow equal weight of 
berries and sugar but cook berries with no water (on re- 
placing) twenty minutes befare adding sugar. When 
sugar has dissolved, berries soften and juice begins to jell, 
remove to jars and seal. 


BARBERRY JAM 


Allow one-quarter pound sugar to each quart ripe berries. 
Mash them; mix with sugar (no water) and boil till no 
seum rises. Cook an hour or over, always, The jam may 
be put up as itis, or made into marmalade, mashed through 


ACLUSTER OF BERRIES 173 


a coarse sieve. Added to fig or pear or apple the jam 
proves a source of pleasing variety in flavour. 


SYRUP OF BARBERRIES (For Drinks, etc.) 


Cook berries till soft and clear, then cook with syrup as 
for Cranberry Syrup, mashing berries; straining and re- 
turning to fire to cook again before bottling. This syrup 
may be used for ices, puddings, etc., or combined, as is 
currant or cranberry or lemon juice, with other fruits for 
jellies, pies, or other “‘dishes.’’ With raisins, pears, figs, 
or apples it is particularly good for tarts. 


RED CURRANT JELLY No. 1 


Pick the fruit on a dry day before the currants are quite 
ripe, Stem them and scald over boiling water (in an inner 
vessel), then let the currants remain an hour over a moder- 
ate fire. Pour into a jelly bag without crushing and let 
drip over night. Place juice in preserving kettle and let 
boil ten minutes. Skim, and when just at a boil stir in the 
sugar, having measured the cold juice and allowing for 
each full pint one and one-fourth pounds sugar (heated). 
This should jell by the time sugar is dissolved, requiring 
never more than five minutes. Let stand in sun several 
days. 

WHITE CURRANT JELLY 

Make by above method. 


BLACK CURRANT JELLY 


Black Currant Jelly may be made as above with the ex- 
ception of adding a little water to the fruit when first put 
on, otherwise the syrup would be too thick. 


RED CURRANT JELLY No. 2 (Without Cooking) 


Crush currants without stemming and squeeze through 
a coarse cloth. Weigh, instead of measuring juice, and 


174 FRUIT RECIPES 


allow a pound of sugar for each pound of juice. Stir 
together with the hand till sugar is smoothly dissolved. 
Place in glasses and let stand in window where hot sun- 
light may shine on them through glass for at least five 
days. Cover and keep in cool, dry place. 


BAR-LE-DUC (Imitation of the Imported Jam or Jelly) 


1. Add one-fifth part of currants (by weight) to red 
raspberries. Crush and strain currants and weigh again, 
this time with the raspberries, fruit separated by paper. 
Add three-quarters pound of sugar for each pound of the 
second weighing of fruit and juice and simmer, then boil— 
skimming—for twenty-five minutes, when add the rasp- 
berries (uncrushed) and boil until the juice jells (in about 
fifteen minutes), then remove and seal well while hot. 

2. Boil together five minutes two-thirds measure 
of sugar (as two pints) to one of cold _ water. 
Measure the syrup resulting and when again boil- 
ing add to it equal measure of strained red or white 
currant juice. When this jells add seeded garden currants 
which have been carefully opened with fine sharp wooden 
blade ora quill. Ifthe measure of syrup is one pint add one 
pint currants; if a quart, then a quart of currants and so 
on. Let boil up once when remove; pour into jars and 
set (uncovered) in a dark, dry, and cool place for five or 
six days, then seal. The currant juice is sometimes omitted, 
only the sugar syrup and fruit used. The currants, if red, 
should be pale in colour. 


RED CURRANT JAM 


Wash, stem, and weigh currants, allowing equal weight 
of sugar, adding it when fruit has been boiling three minutes. 
When dissolved and at boiling point remove and place in 
jars. 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 178 


To make a darker, thicker jam boil sugar and fruit 
together an hour. 


BLACK CURRANT JAM 


Make as above but cook fifteen minutes before adding 
sugar, then fifteen minutes before removing, stirring all the 
while. 


CURRANT RAISIN JAM 


Wash, drain, seed, and chop two pounds Muscatel raisins 
and place in preserving kettle. Meanwhile have ready, 
washed and stemmed, sufficient white currants to make 
three quarts of juice when mashed and strained. Add to 
this three pounds of sugar and stir the sweetened juice into 
the raisins. Mix well and let slowly come to a boil, skim- 
ming and stirring till it is thick and smooth. Let cool; 
place in jars and seal. 


SPICED CURRANTS 


Three pounds sugar; five pounds currants; one pint 
vinegar; tablespoon each cloves, cinnamon, ginger, and 
allspice, with one teaspoon salt. Simmer carefully three 
hours, then bottle. 


CURRANT CATSUP 


To four pounds washed, stemmed currants add two 
pounds brown sugar and one pint vinegar. Simmer till 
sufficiently thick when add spice (one teaspoon each cloves, 
pepper, and cinnamon). Boil five minutes longer; strain 
and bottle. 


CURRANT SHORTCAKE 
Make a sweet shortcake, placing between layers and 


on top washed, mashed currants well sweetened, with a 
merringue, lightly browned. 


176 FRUIT RECIPES 


RED CURRANT PUDDING 


Stew two-thirds currants and one-third raspberries with 
a little sugar till soft; pour off juice and place fruit in a 
pudding-dish lined with stale sponge cake, Let stand 
till cold with eake on top and on this a weight. Boil down 
the juice poured off and when ready to serve pour it over 
the pudding. 
CURRANT ICE AND SHERBET 


To each quart of juice allow a pound of sugar. Let 
gently heat till sugar is melted when cool and freeze. Serve 
with stemmed currants sprinkled over the ice in sherbet 
glasses. Sweet raspberry syrup will lessen the tartness 
and give variation of flavour. For sherbet add the usual 
whipped whites of eggs (see Introductory Recipes). 


CURRANT ICE CREAM 


Partly freeze the cream or custard before adding currant 
juice. Where fresh or canned currants are not to be had 
two teaspoons of currant jelly and juice of one lemon may 
be used for each pint of the frozen mixture (cream, custard, 
or ice). 

CURRANT CUP 


Cook into syrup a pint each of sugar and water. When 
cool pour it over stemmed currants and set on ice four 
hours, Serve in sherbet glasses. 


CURRANT SHRUB 


Strain currant juice and allow a pound of sugar for each 
pint of juice. Boil five minutes, then stir till cool. Bottle 
when cold. Old-fashioned proportion is one tablespoon 
to each glass of water. Another shrub calls for a wineglass 
of brandy to each pint of syrup. 


PERFECTION CURRANT 


nigra 


BLOSSOM OF THE COMMON ELDER 
Sambucus 


azis [BIN}eU Y}INOJ-2uO HILNOS AHL AO 
AUYAITON (CIOVIG) HONAWA FHL «AUUVATATIONH HOI» NOWWOO FHL 


4 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 177 


RED CURRANT WINE 


To a quart each of currant juice and sugar allow two 
quarts of water. Place in a cask unstopped, for three 
weeks, when place bung in loosely for a week longer—until 
all danger of fermentation is past. Then seal tight and 
let stand a year before using. 


CURRANT AND RASPBERRY WINE 


To four gallons of red currants add one quart red rasp- 
berries; scald, crush, and strain. On the pulp pour five 
and a half gallons cold water and one pound sliced red beet, 
letting stand over night. When strained add this to the 
juice. Dissolve in the whole ten pounds white sugar and 
three ounces red tartar. Place in cask and when fermenta- 
tion has ceased bung tight and let stand eight months. 


BLACK CURRANT AND STRAWBERRY WINE 


To three gallons black currants add six quarts straw- 
berries, two ounces red tartar, and twelve and a half pounds 
of sugar. Heat the fruit and press out juice then add 
sugar. When dissolved stir in five and a half gallons soft 
water and let ferment. * 


GREEN CURRANT WINE 


. Take full grown currants still green in colour. Stem 
and weigh and allow for each three pounds one gallon 
water. Mash and proceed as with Gooseberry Champagne, 
using brown instead of white sugar. 


BLACK CURRANT BRANDY (For Intestinal Disorders) 


In one gallon cold water place two gallons black currants. 
Let heat gradually and boil one-half hour. Remove and 
cool; add two gallons deodorised pure spirits; stir and 


178 FRUIT RECIPES 


strain, mashing fruit to extract juice. To juice add four 
pounds sugar and place in a cask. Wash fruit pulp in 
half-gallon each of water and spirits; mash and strain 
again; add two more pounds sugar and pour in with first 
liquor (in cask). May be used in a month but improves 
with age. 


WHITE CURRANT BRANDY 


To each half-gallon currant juice add one quart spirits 
and two pounds sugar. Let stand undisturbed three 
months before bottling. 


CURRANT VINEGAR 


Pour juice from two gallons mashed currants in a barrel; 
wash remaining pulp in water; add to it two gallons molas- 
ses; strain when dissolved and pour also into the barrel 
with enough soft water to fill barrel two-thirds full. Dis- 
solve meantime a cup of strong yeast in a gallon of water 
and add to the mixture. Place barrel in sun and while 
fermenting shake often. The autumn following add 
eight gallons water. 


CURRANT PUNCH 


Make a syrup of a pint each of sugar arid water, boiling 
and skimming. Add juice of an orange and lemon; strain, 
and mix in a glass of currant jelly or half pint currant 
juice. Let cool, then add shaved ice and charged water. 


DRIED GARDEN CURRANTS 


Pick just before ripe; stew without crushing in a little 
sugar; spread on plates, with sugar strewn thickly over, and 
dry in the sun. To be eaten as they are as a relish, or as 
confection with desserts. May also be soaked over night 
and stewed for sauce. 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 179 


CURRANTS IN SALADS 


Red currants make one of the most artistic additions to 
salads, the loose sprays laid around the edges of the plates, 
or as a garnish to a salad bowl or, stemmed, used with 
other fruits or with vegetables for the body of a salad. 


CURRANT COLOURING 


Currant juice may be preserved (see Introductory 
Recipes) and may be used effectively for colouring sauces, 
drinks, ices, creams, or as flavouring. 


CURRANTS—TO SERVE SIMPLY UNCOOKED 


Currants may be iced as for frosted grapes and cherries 
or may be crushed and sweetened a little before serving 
uncooked. 

GOOSEBERRY JELLY 


.Use no water. Heat berries through and press to extract 
all juice. Strain and measure, allowing pound for pint 
of sugar and juice. Boil ten minutes and place in glasses. 


GOOSEBERRY JAMS 


When used alone cook the gooseberries as for jelly, using 
the pulp for jams; strain to remove skins and seeds; allow 
equal weight of sugar and cook to thickness desired, Or, 
fresh berries may be cooked down in their own juice, adding, 
when tender, equal weight of sugar. 

Gooseberries and strawberries in equal weight make a 
delicious jam and gooseberries with raspberries or some one 
of the citrus fruit marmalades form a most agreeable com- 
bination. 

GOOSEBERRY AND RED CURRANT JAM 


Allow two cups red currant juice to each four pounds of 
gooseberries and three pounds sugar. Make a syrup and 


180 FRUIT RECIPES 


place the berries in it, simmering forty minutes, till berries 
are translucent, when they are ready to seal. 


GOOSEBERRIES AND WHITE CURRANT JAM 


Use equal weight of gooseberries, and currants and sugar 
equal to their combined weight. Simmer together slowly, 
crushing and cooking till tender and thick. 


PRESERVED WHOLE GOOSEBERRIES 


Make a strong syrup of two pounds of sugar to a pint of 
water. Prick gooseberries in several places and put them 
in the syrup. Let heat to 160° and take from stove but 
let berries remain in syrup over night. Repeat twice; 
then re-heat, stopping just short of boiling point, again 
letting berries stand over night in the syrup. While still 
cold place them in bottles with syrup poured over and set 
bottles in the water-bath to finish. Should the berries 
seem to be cracking before the water boils remove bottles 
at once and seal; otherwise let stand till water is at 
boiling point. 


SIMPLE GOOSEBERRY PIE 


To gooseberries stewed in a little water add sugar to 
taste, then crush fruit somewhat; add dessertspoon each 
of flour and butter (mixed). Place all in pan or dish with 
paste-lined sides and cover with crust, pricked or slashed, 
and bake. 


GOOSEBERRY TART No. x 


Stew berries like cranberries, using two-thirds as much 
sugar as fruit. Line tin or dish with pastry and bake it 
till light brown before placing gooseberries in it. Finish 
with diagonal lattice of pastry; replace in oven and bake 


- till done. 


A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 181 


GOOSEBERRY TART No. 2 


Place sugar on ripe, uncooked berries, letting stand till 
clear, when mash through coarse sieve and fill pastry shells 
(already half-baked). Replace in oven till heated through, 
when place meringue on top and lightly brown. Whipped 
cream may be substituted for meringue or canned berries- 
for the fresh. Also the very small tart shells may be used. 


GOOSEBERRY TART No. 3 


Line sides of dish with short crust. Pile ripe, uncooked 
berries in centre with one-fourth pint sugar and place crust 
on top. Prick well. Bake three-quarters of an hour; 
sprinkle fine sugar and nutmeg on top and serve with a 
jug of cream and dish of custards. 


GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (Boiled) 


Top and tail a quart of full-grown but green berries; 
scald and let stand till cold, after which drain them. Chop 
six ounces of beef suet and rub well through a pound of 
flour, adding a half-teaspoon of salt and a half-pint of ice 
water—just enough to keep the dough together. Roll out 
in circular form and place gooseberries in the middle, 
meantime having added to them a half-pound of sugar. 
(More added before boiling would toughen them.) Draw 
up the dough as for dumplings and place in a wet, dredged 
pudding cloth; tie, leaving room for swelling, and place 
in a pot of fast boiling water, with plate at bottom to pre- 
vent scorching. Boil three hours, turning once in a while 
and filling up with boiling water as needed. Serve with 
sugar. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL No. r 


Top and tail a quart of ripe berries and simmer in a pint 
of water. When the fruit turns colour, is soft and swelled 


182 FRUIT RECIPES 


drain and put it through a colander. Add one-half pound 
sugar and let cool. Heat a quart of milk and stir into it 
carefully the beaten yolks of two eggs. Let thicken and 
flavour with nutmeg then remove and mix carefully with 
the cold fruit. 


GOOSEBERRY FOOL No. 2 


Prepare very young gooseberries as above and when 
cool add to them gradually a quart of cream, whipping 
well. Serve cold. 


GOOSEBERRY SAUCE FOR LAMB 


Scald a half-pint of berries and stir into a pint of drawn 
butter. Serve hot. 


GOOSEBERRY CATSUP 


Make as for Currant Catsup, using five pounds goose- 
berries with two pounds of sugar. 


GOOSEBERRY CHUTNEY 


To two full pints of nearly ripe gooseberries allow three- 
fourths pound of raisins and three onions. Chop together 
and heat slowly with one cup brown sugar, three table- 
spoons each of mustard, ginger, and salt, a saltspoon of 
red pepper and a little turmeric. Simmer forty minutes 
with two pints vinegar, then strain through coarse sieve 
and seal in little jars. 


‘'GOOSEBERRY CHIPS 


Place gooseberries in jars and let them boil in outer 
vessel till soft. Remove and to each pound of pulp allow 
a half-pound sifted loaf sugar. Place this, well mixed— 
about an eighth of an inch thick—in flat dishes; set in 
sun and dry, which may require several days. The dried 
cakes may be cut in strips and twisted. 


\ A CLUSTER OF BERRIES 183 


GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR 


Let two quarts crushed gooseberries (not fully ripe) 
stand forty-eight hours in three quarts water, when press 
and strain. Allow a pint of sugar to each gallon and 
one tablespoon yeast for fermentation. 


GOOSEBERRY WINE 


Use fully grown but not thoroughly ripened berries, 
removing blossoms and stems and bruising fruit without 
crushing seeds or skins. To twenty pounds of berries add 
.two gallons rain-water, stirring and mashing fruit until it 
is cleared from the skin. Let stand six hours then strain 
free of seeds and skins and bring resulting juice to a boil. 
Have dissolved fifteen pounds sugar and add this to juice 
as it heats. Meantime let seeds and skins be svaking in 
a gallon of water. When the sugar and first liquor are at 
boiling point add this second quantity, strained. Measure 
it all and add sufficient water to bring whole quantity 
up to five gallons. Let this ferment in cask, covering bung- 
hole with cheesecloth and allowing room for fermentation. 
When this has ceased stop the bung and let wine stand 
six or seven months before using. 


GOOSEBERRY CHAMPAGNE 


Take well-filled-out but green berries and top and tail 
them. To each three pounds allow one gallon soft water. 
Place berries in a large crock or tub with a little of the 
water and pound them heavily, mashing thoroughly. Add 
the rest of the water then stir briskly. Cover with cloth 
and for each of four days succeeding stir well and often. 
Then strain off, adding to the clear liquor four pounds of 
sugar for each gallon. Also, add to each five gallons one 
quart best brandy. Mix and place in a cask, filling lat-. 
ter full. Place bung lightly on top—the cask on its side in 


184 FRUIT RECIPES 


a cool dry place where it will not be shaken in the slightest 
degree. Let ferment thoroughly—perhaps three weeks— 
then bottle, corking well and placing bottles on sides. 
This will be fit to use in eight months and if rightly made 
will be very like champagne. 


GOOSEBERRY WATER ICE 


Squeeze juice from stewed berries unsweetened, or the 
very ripe berries, allowing a pound of sugar to each pint. 
Mix well and freeze. 

The juice from the stewed fruit may be used further, 
for custards and creams as well. 


CHAPTER XIV 
THE LEMON (Citrus limonum: Rutacee) 


EMONS are not often enough used as food, drink, or 
medicine. There is nothing more wholesome in 
natural foods, more effective in toning the system and 
purifying the blood (unless for some special reason the acid 
is directly prohibited; see note on potash in Introduction) 
than this most positive of citrus fruits. It is a special 
agent with the liver, acting directly upon it and assisting 
with the proper action of the bowels, cooling the blood 
and reaching or preventing a long list of ailments which 
take their rise in disorders of the liver. It is true that the 
liver may be made torpid by the nerves, which affect it 
strongly, so that worry, for instance, will partially paralyse 
its freedom and cause heavy colds and more serious troubles, 
but whether from improper physical or mental diet—from 
whatever cause—a clogged liver can make one as miserable, 
as discouraged and ill as one can be and live. If too late 
to remove the cause the condition should be relieved or 
it goes further, being, without doubt, the cause of suicides 
from the resulting mentai depression, as well as ‘‘death 
from natural causes,” through disordering the functions 
of other vital organs of the body. Vividly picturesque 
descriptions of the horrors of these various resulting com- 
plications may be found in almost any patent medicine 
circular, for it is upon the liver that the authors of these 
literary gems place the blame for most of the ills to which 

flesh is heir. 
The public is not so apt to seek or dwell upon written 
185 : 


186 FRUIT RECIPES 


or realised liver-nightmares when lemons are plentifully 
and judiciously used. Malaria is one of the ‘‘simple” 
and direct results of a rebellious, inactive liver, and one 
most commonly known. Typhoid, with its more serious, 
complicated aspect, comes under this head, yet physicians 
claim that even these germs can be driven out or actually 
killed by the plentiful and timely use of lemons. It is, 
however, not only the juice which is beneficial sometimes, 
the rind being a helpful accessory, as the method of pre- 
paring and using it in Roman malarial districts proves, 
as does also an old-fashioned remedy for colds. It is 
claimed that it wili entirely prevent or cure scurvy and 
“in England every foreign-going ship is required by law 
to take such a supply of lemon juice that every seaman 
shall have a daily allowance of an ounce after having been 
ten days at sea’’—Wood & Bache. Asa cooling drink 
its refrigerant qualities are proven—especially when used 
without sugar, which is heating. Even merely as an ac- 
cessory or flavouring it is extremely refreshing in food or 
drink and many not commonly known ways of using the 
lemon are here presented, as well as others more conven- 
tional, as of value in that very common and natural desire 
for variety. (It should be remembered that lemon juice, 
or any other acid, should never be placed in tin recep- 
tacles. Use enamel or porcelain.) 


RECIPES 
ITALIAN CURE FOR MALARIA 


Slice thin one lemon—rind and all—and place in sauce- 
pan. Over this pour one and a half pints cold water and cook 
down to one-half pint, then strain through coarse cotton 
or linen so that part of the tender pulp and rind exude. 
Let stand till cool and: drink it fasting. This should be 
kept up—continuously—for some days. 


THE LEMON 187 
BAKED LEMON FOR COLDS 


Bake a lemon whole till thoroughly tender and eat it 
hot with sugar just before retiring. It is best to do without 
the evening meal and to fast otherwise as far as possible. 
Also drink much water. This should be taken three nights 
in succession. 


FLAXSEED LEMONADE 


Another old-fashioned and generally effective remedy 
for colds is this laxative drink: Pour a quart of boiling 
water over a cup of flaxseed. Add juice of two lemons 
and sugar to taste. Let steep in covered jug several hours 
and drink hot just before retiring. (This may be thinned 
if preferred.) 


LEMON CORDIAL (Old Recipe) 


Steep for twenty-four hours the yellow, rinds (only) of 
two dozen lemons in a gallon of French brandy, meantime 
having rolled the lemons and squeezed pulp with juice into 
four pounds of sugar dissolved in a gallon of water. Strain, 
and when the lemon rind is ready to mix add a quart and 
a pint of milk at boiling point. Let stand twenty-four 
hours, then strain and bottle. 


LEMON FOR HOARSENESS 


The stiff-beaten white of an egg with the juice of one 
lemon and sugar or honey added generously is excellent 
in relieving hoarseness. | 


LEMON FOR HEADACHE 


The juice of a large lemon squeezed into a small cup of 
strong, black coffee (no sugar) will often prevent or cure a 
headache. 


188 FRUIT RECIPES 


LEMONS IN DRINKS 


When one is forty miles from a lemon, one may still 
have ‘‘lemonade” by using citric acid in crystals or pul- 
verised, with or without a pure lemon tincture as flavouring. 
No ill effects can accrue from using this acid in such trifling 
quantity as required to make tart a drink or pudding-sauce. 
It cannot completely take the place of the fruit juice, but, 
as it is the acid found in and taken from the fruits of the 
citrus family, it can be substituted, therefore, if necessary, 
in moderation without harm. 


TEA WITH LEMON JUICE 


This is not a mere fad or ‘‘ foreign fashion’’ without foun- 
dation of reason. There is a scientific fact beneath the 
surface. Where either lime or lemon juice is used in the 
clear tea (with or without sugar) there is little possibility 
of harm resulting from the effect of the tea (such as may 
be felt when tea, pure and simple, is used) since the citric 
acid of the fruit offsets the tannic acid of the tea, rendering 
it refreshing and wholesome. (It is perhaps needless to 
add that the black, perfectly cured teas should be used; not 
the green or mixed teas.) 


LEMON “SQUASH” OR SIMPLE LEMONADE 


For a good plain lemonade (called ‘‘Lemon Squash” 
by our British cousins) use one lemon to one pint of water, 
adding very little or no sugar if one wishes the most 
cooling effect, as sugar ‘‘evolves heat during oxidation,” 
and should be avoided only a degree less than alcohol in 
hot weather. 


SIMPLE EGG LEMONADE (For One). 


Beat the white and yolk of one egg, separately, then 
together, and add one tablespoonful of sugar, the juice of 
one lemon and a coffee cupful of water, then whip again. 


THE LEMON 189 


Strain this, pouring it on to a large tablespoonful of shaved 
ice; shake up and pour into glass from which it is to be 
served. 

EGG LEMONADE WITH SHERRY (In Quantity) 


Slice thin four lemons, add six dessertspoonfuls of sugar 
and pour over this three pints of boiling water. Let 
stand several hours, then add one-half pint of sherry. 
Strain and add the well-whipped whites of the four eggs and 
a pinch of salt. Pack ice around the pitcher and when 


chilled serve. 
ITALIAN LEMONADE 


Slice one dozen lemons, add to them a pound of sugar, 
and let stand over night. In the morning strain, add one 
pint of sherry and three pints of boiling water. Beat 
or shake this well, then add one pint of boiling milk and 
strain. Drink hot or cold. 


LEMON-ORANGEADE 


Use as many oranges as lemons and carbonated, instead 
of ‘‘plain,’’ water. Mix the juice with amount of sugar re- 
quired some hours before serving, at the last moment, 
only, adding the carbonated water. Pineapple juice may 
be substituted for the orange, and as an artistic finish, a 
graceful touch is the addition of shredded orange, pine- 
apple, cherriés, berries, or angelica. 


LEMON GINGER BEER 


Pour eight quarts of cold water over six thin-sliced 
lemons, with one and a half pounds of sugar and a little less 
than an ounce of ginger root. Let this come to a boil 
before adding one tablespoonful of cream of tartar, then 
strain and let stand till cool, when a yeast cake dissolved 
or broken into bits should be stirred in and the whole 


190 FRUIT RECIPES 


allowedtostand overnight. In the morning mix thoroughly 
and bottle (corking tight), placing bottles on the side in 
cool place. In twelve hours the beer will be ready for use. 


LEMON WHEY 


Boil together for five minutes a pint each of milk and 
water and the juice of two lemons. Strain and add sugar 
to taste. 

LEMON SYRUP (With Lemons) 


The following recipe makes it possible to have real lem- 
onade at any time. To each pint of lemon juice add one 
pint of water and two and a half pounds of sugar. Add 
the grated rind of the lemons used, then place in enamelled 
kettle and simmer slowly until thick, when it should be 
strained and bottled (hot). 


LEMON SYRUP (Without Lemons) 


To three pints of water add six pounds of sugar and boil 
five minutes. Into this stir the white of one egg beaten 
up with half a pint of cold water. When a scum rises (as 
it will in a few moments) set the kettle off the fire and let 
stand five minutes, when the scum must be removed. 
When cool measure and to a gallon of syrup add three 
ounces of tartaric acid dissolved in half a pint of hot water. 
With this add one teaspoonful of oil of lemon. The latter 
must be absolutely sweet and fresh; if the least rancid 
the syrup will be spoiled. 


LEMON TINCTURE FOR FLAVOURING 


Pare the lemons quite thin and cover the shavings of the 
yellow rind with good grain-alcohol. Cork tight. When 
ready for use the alcohol will be bright yellow. This 
should then be poured off into a second bottle from which 
_ it is to be used. 


THE LEMON 1QI 


LEMON SUGAR FOR FLAVOURING (Or “‘Zest”) 


Rub lumps of sugar over lemon rind until the oil cells 
are broken, when the oil will be absorbed by the sugar. 
Place the sugar in an air-tight jar and it will be ready for 
dissolving at any time. 


LEMON RIND PRESERVE 


Save the lemon shells left after squeezing for lemonade, 
etc., and drop them into a jar of fresh water, changing the 
latter every third day and at this time removing carefully 
the drops of oil found floating on the water. These should 
be put into a special bottle as they are the pure oil of lemon. 
At the end of two weeks scrape out the soft, inside, pulp, 
leaving only the rind shell. To the yellow shells sugar 
should be added in proportion of pound for pound and 
cooked slowly into a thick preserve. 


LEMON PRESERVES (With White Pulp) 


Boil the entire lemon ‘‘husks”’ (after squeezing from 
them the juice for other uses) in fresh water until tender, 
then cook in a syrup (previously prepared) made of five 
pounds of sugar to a pint of water. Cook until preserves 
are thick, clear, and yellow, but not too dark in colour. 


LEMON MARMALADE 


To six pounds of lemons take nine pounds of sugar. 
Peel the lemons, then cover yellow parings with water and 
boil until tender. Drain and let cool, then shred fine the 
parings. Meantime halve the peeled fruit crosswise and 
press out juice and soft pulp. Cover the shells of white 
pulp remaining with three pints of cold water and boil 
one-half hour. Strain off this liquor and add it to the 
juice and soft pulp, with the yellow rinds. Boil all 


/ 


192 FRUIT RECIPES 


together ten minutes, then add heated sugar; boil down to 
desired consistency and place, while boiling hot, in small 
jars or marmalade pots. 


LEMON JELLY No. 1 (Without Gelatine) 


It is usually considered impossible to make lemon jelly 
without gelatine but by the following process the appar- 
ently impossible may be achieved. Small quantities are 
best managed and most successful in results. Slice four 
lemons very thin and cover (in granite kettle) with two 
quarts of cold water. Cook down to one-half the quantity 
and strain, squeezing skin and pulp as well as juice through 
a coarse cheesecloth bag. Cook again and when at boil- 
ing point strain a second time but through a fine bag. Re- 
turn juice to kettle and after ten minutes’ simmering add 
hot sugar in proportion of one heaping pint to one scant 
pint of juice. Boil until sugar melts and it jells, which 
should require but five or six minutes. The result is a 
light tender jelly which will acquire firmness by being set 
in the hot sun several days in succession. 

A second method is to proceed as above, with the 
addition of uncooked “‘pie-melon’’ pulp (half and half 
with the lemon in weight), using sugar in proportionate 
addition. . 

LEMON JELLY No. 2 (With Gelatine) 


Soak one box of gelatine (American brands preferably) 
in one pint of cold water for an hour, when add one quart 
of boiling water and two cups of sugar. Stir until gelatine 
is thoroughly dissolved. When cool add the juice of four 
lemons and strain through coarse cotton cloth into glasses 
or other moulds when partly cool, setting on ice to harden. 
This may be more tart than desired; if so add sugar just 
at the last. In warm weather if ice is unavailable use but 
one pint of hot water. 


‘MONS WITH BLOSSOMS 


CALIFORNIA LE 


ANISH LIME OR GINEP 


iS 


Diposnbrg WnIzUDLND SnAND aSueso Anos Jo ‘pla ayy sv os[e UMOUY 


Gail GONVAO ATILAGS SWOSSOTH HLIM ‘“AONVHO WITIAMS FHL 


THE LEMON 193 


LEMON HONEY 


To the juice of two lemons add one pint of sugar and 
one-half pint of water. Cook until thick. 


PICKLED LEMONS (Helen Harcourt) 


Quarter the lemons, cutting not quite through rind at 
base (so that the quarters will remain attached) and place 
in each one teaspoon of salt. Put them in the sun or near 
stove where they will get a steady but slow, moderate heat. 
Leave them until they look black and dried, then place in 
the jars in which they are to be sealed. Pour over them 
boiling vinegar to which has been added spice to taste, 
including a little chopped onion, white mustard seed, gin- 
ger, cloves, nutmeg, and cinnamon. As pickled lemons 
will swell to their original size in the vinegar more of the 
latter must be added than for the usual pickle. These 
should be put up a twelvemonth before using. 


SIMPLE LEMON CUSTARD (Without Lemon Juice) 


To one quart of boiling milk (in double boiler), add one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half cup sugar, rind of two lemons, 
grated, and, last, one heaping tablespoon cornstarch which 
has been dissolved in a little cold water or milk. Now 
stir in lightly one egg (beaten separately), first the yolk 
and then—very lightly indeed—the stiff-whipped white, 
and immediately remove from the stove. When cool place 
on ice. This is delicate and refreshing and much more 
acceptable to many than where the lemon juice is used. 


LEMON “CUSTARD” (With Lemon Juice) 


To one quart of boiling water add one tablespoon of 
butter, one cup of sugar, two heaping teaspoons of corn- 
starch (dissolved in cold water), and the grated rind and 


194 FRUIT RECIPES 


juice of two lemons. Beat three eggs separately and add 
the yolks to the above. If the pudding is to be baked it 
should be removed at this stage from the fire and poured 
into the baking-dish, remaining in the oven until the cus- 
tard is set, when a meringue made of the whipped whites 
of the eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar is to be poured 
over the top and browned. The pudding is equally 
delicious not baked, however. In this case the whipped 
whites should be lightly beaten in on being removed from 
the stove and when somewhat cool, poured into a glass 
dish and later set on ice. Serve with cream or wine sauce. 


EGGLESS LEMON PIE OR PUDDING (A Novelty) 


To the juice and grated rind of two lemons add one cup 
each of cold water, sugar, and grated, raw, Irish potato. 
When used as a pie bake with upper crust only. As a 
pudding use no crust but sprinkle with sugar and bits of 
butter and when baked serve with cream. 


LEMON CHEESE FOR TARTLETS 


To the juice and grated rind of two lemons add beaten 
yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar, and a half-cup of butter. 
Beat well and cook in double boiler until thick. 


LEMON CREAM PIE 


Heat to boiling point one cup of water, adding juice and 
grated rind of two lemons with one cup of sugar. Stir well 
together and add one tablespoon of cornstarch dissolved 
in cold water Let this boil up once then remove and cool. 
Have the under-crust baked by the time the above is cool, 
then add to the mixture the beaten yolks of three eggs, 
place the custard in the crust and bake one-half hour. When 
done remove from oven, let cool, then place on top a 


THE LEMON 195 


meringue made of the whipped whites of the eggs and one- 
half cup of sugar, and brown in oven. 


LEMON RICE PUDDING 


To one quart of cold milk add two (small), level table- 
spoonfuls of rice, the grated rind of two lemons, and one-half 
cup of sugar. Let cookin double boiler until rice grains are 
well filled out and tender, then place in baking dish and 
bake for an hour, stirring the pudding a number of times 
meanwhile (even though a light brown skin forms repeated- 
ly) till the last fifteen minutes, when it should be allowed 
to brown. Add more sugar if not sweet as desired on plac- 
ing in oven. This will be creamy and delicate. 


LEMON SAGO AND TAPIOCA 


Either tapioca or sago may be used for this with de- 
licious results, and the pudding may be made either clear 
and tart or creamy and sweet. If the former is preferred 
use water instead of milk. To one quart of cold water or 
milk add two large tablespoonfuls of tapioca or sago and 
soak for an hour, then let come toa boil on moderate fire. 
With the water use the juice of two large or three small 
lemons with the grated rind of one, and a small cup of 
sugar. With the milk substituted use only the grated 
tind (no juice). Whenclear, soft, and thick, remove from 
fire and beat in lightly the whipped whites of two eggs. 
When cool place on ice. It is unnecessary to add the 
whites of the eggs but they give a more delicate, feathery 
consistency. 


LEMON SPONGE 
Soak one box of gelatine in one and a half pints of cold 


water then place in granite kettle with the grated rind and 
juice of three lemons and one cup of sugar. Let boil, pour 


196 FRUIT RECIPES 


off, andcool. (If the grated rind is not desired except for 
flavour the liquor should at this stage be strained.) When 
beginning to set add the whipped whites of two eggs and 
beat until spongy in appearance (length of time required 
differs with temperature). Then heap lightly in the dish 
from which it is to be.served or in mould and place on ice. 
Should this be made in warm weather when impossible to 
procure ice, the whipped whites should not be beaten in 
thoroughly but the gelatine allowed to set and the egg- 
froth rising to the top should be served with the sponge as 
asauce. By placing the bowl containing the gelatine in an 
outer vessel of cold water and changing the water about 
every half-hour or twenty minutes, the sponge will harden 
better. 
BOILED LEMON PUDDING 


Beat together one-fourth pound of butter, one-half pound 
of sugar, the grated rind of two lemons, and two table- 
spoons of flour, with a pinch of salt. In a separate basin 
stir one-half pound of bread-crumbs, with the juice of 
the lemon, and four eggs well beaten (previously), then add 
to the prepared batter. Tie securely in a well-dredged 
pudding-cloth (leaving room for swelling) and boil three 
hours, Serve with hard sauce. 


LEMON DUMPLINGS 


These dumplings may be made in two ways; by using 
a soft, sweet biscuit dough, cutting out as for large bis- 
cuits, placing in the centre of each a teaspoonful of lemon 
marmalade, and tying in large squares of cotton or linen, 
and dropping in boiling water for forty-five minutes (these 
may be baked, instead), or by the following recipe: Mix 
thoroughly a half-pound of bread, grated, one-fourth pound 
each of sugar and suet, the grated rind of two and juice of 
one lemon; one grated, tart apple or cup of tart pineapple, 


THE LEMON 197 


and two tablespoons of flour rubbed smooth in two well- 
beaten eggs. Tie in squares of cloth and boil three-fourths 
of an hour, putting plate underneath to prevent sticking. 
Serve with the following sauce: 


LEMON PUDDING SAUCE 


One and one-half cups of sugar, one well-beaten egg, 
juice and rind of one lemon, and one-fourth pound of butter. 
When thoroughly mixed, and pudding about to be served, 
add one pint boiling water but do not cook. If not 
sufficiently tart add juice of second lemon. 


LEMON LOAF CAKE 


Beat to a cream one and a half cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, adding gradually, the beaten yolks of two 
eggs, one cup of sweet milk, grated rind of two lemons, three 
and one-half cups of flour, with a pinch of salt and heaping 
teaspoonful of baking-powder sifted through the flour, 
whipping in at the last of the mixing the stiff-beaten white 
of one egg (a half-teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and 
cup of raisins may be added sometimes to vary this). To 
make the icing place one and a half cups of sugar in a 
saucepan with juice of two lemons and grated rind of one. 
Boil till it strings from spoon, when pour over the stiff- 
whipped white of one egg and beat with fork till icing 
begins to stiffen, then spread on top and sides of cake. 


LEMON CUSTARD LAYER CAKE 


Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, three eggs, one and a half teaspoonsof baking-powder, 
and three cups of flour. This makes four layers. For 
filling take the juice and grated rind of two lemons, one 
egg, one cup of sugar and one-half cup of water, one 


198 FRUIT RECIPES 


teaspoon of butter and two tablespoons of flour mixed 
smooth with a little of the water. Boil this together 
until it thickens (watching carefully), then place between 
layers. 
LEMON SNAPS 

Beat together one cup of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, 
adding two eggs, one-half teaspoon of soda dissolved in 
four tablespoons of hot water, and one tablespoon of lemon 
juice with grated rind of two lemons. Add sufficient flour 
to roll soft and thin and bake in a quick oven. 


LEMON CRACKERS 


Two cups of sugar, one each of shortening and milk, 
two eggs, grated rind of three lemons, and two ounces of 
baking ammonia, with sufficient flour to make a very stiff 
dough. Roll thin, cut in squares, and bake. 


LEMON SANDWICHES (Mrs. Rorer) 


Cut bread in form desired, then place slices in tight box 
with lemon peel wrapped close to it and between slices. 
Leave for several hours before using then butter and serve. 
The butter should also have been prepared with lemon 
flavouring by placing lemon rinds generously in the butter 
jar or cup, and when ready to spread the juice of one lemon 
added for each cup of butter. 


LEMON CATSUP 


Mix one tablespoon grated horseradish with the grated 
rind of four lemons. Add one teaspoon of salt, the juice 
of the lemons, a dessertspoon each of white mustard seed 
and celery seed, a few blades of mace, four cloves, and a dash 
of red pepper. Boil thirty-five minutes, then bottle while 
hot. In five or six weeks this will be ready to serve with fish. 


THE LEMON 199 


MAITRE D’HOTEL SAUCE FOR FISH 


With two tablespoons of butter cream in one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of white pepper, and 
a tablespoon each‘of lemon juice and powdered parsley. 
Keep very cold till ready to serve with fish. 


LEMON ICE 


To one quart of water add one pint of sugar and boil five 
minutes. Remove from fire and add juice of three large 
lemons with one dessertspoon of gelatine dissolved in a 
little cold water. Stir well and, when cool, freeze. 


LEMON SHERBET 


To the syrup given above add juice of three lemons and 
one orange. The sugar used in the syrup should have been 
treated as for ‘‘Lemon Sugar for Flavouring”’ or flavoured 
with a little pure lemonoil. Place in freezerand when half- 
frozén add the whipped whites of two eggs, then finish 
freezing. The yolks of the eggs may be added with equally 
good flavour and make the sherbet more acceptable and 
nourishing for invalids. 


FROZEN LEMON CUSTARD 


Make simple custard (see Introductory Recipes for 
“Custard’’) or Lemon Custard, and let. cool. Grate three 
lemons, using this or lemon tincture for flavouring. If 
the rind is used stir in with the milk before cooking the 
custard. If tincture is used add just before freezing. 
(The quantity will depend upon the quality and strength 
of the flavouring). 

LEMON ICE CREAM 


Mix the grated rind of two lemons and one orange with 
one quart of mixed milk and cream and partially freeze. 


200 FRUIT RECIPES 


Have ready a syrup made of the juice of two large lemons 
and one orange and a pint of sugar. When cool add this 
to the partly frozen cream and finish freezing. (More 
sugar may be preferred.) 


CANDIED LEMON PEEL 


See Orange Chips. 


CHAPTER XV 


THE WILD “SOUR,” OR SEVILLE ORANGE 
Citrus aurantium bigaradia: Rutacee 


6 ec: is no edible fruit in America which both grows 

so abundantly (through the southern—the semi- 
tropical portion) and is at the same time so little known or 
understood and in consequence so little appreciated 
or considered adapted to practical-usage as is the wild or 
sour (as it is known in the South), or the Seville orange, 
as it is properly termed. And this fact seems the more 
strange the further one looks into it, since Americans travel 
so extensively and this orange is so highly prized for nu- 
merous purposes throughout Europe and the British Isles 
(to say nothing of other countries and continents), whether 
there grown or merely imported. This may perhaps be 
explained by the fact that as a nation Americans are eaters 
and drinkers of sweet stuffs and that to be told a fruit is 
sour is to consider it uninviting and uninteresting even as 
to name: something to “forget.’’ And so, when the use of 
the Seville orange is read of (with no special mention of its 
acidity) it is not connected with the ‘‘sour’’ orange; it is 
already truly forgotten with other disagreeable matters, 
and it is taken for granted that the Seville is some variety 
of the common, sweet orange. There zs a ‘Sweet Seville,”’ 
but it is never mentioned by those really familiar with 
oranges without the distinguishing adjective, for it is a 
mere namesake and all sweet oranges (unless we except the 
mandarin-tangerine group, whose history is rather indef- 
initely blurred in the hazy mass of ancient Japanese and 

201 


202 FRUIT RECIPES 


Chinese pomology) are parvenues beside the sour or Seville 
orange. Even the Oriental varieties just mentioned and the 
sweet orange trees which forcenturies have been found grow- 
ingon the Himalayas probably came from the sour stock origi- 
nally,so evidence and opinion seem to emphatically indicate. 

The Moors took this orange to Spain. From just what 
particular spot they may first have imported it, it is difficult 
to say at this distance of time, but from that period (the be- 
ginning of the eighth century, A. D.) until into the fifteenth 
century, the sweet orange was not known or cultivated in 
Europe while the sour orange was greatly cultivated. The 
Greeks and Romans seem to have known nothing of any 
variety of orange and so, although biographical sketches 
of Adam, Eve, and the Grecian and Roman gods may by 
scoffers be classed irreverently as equally and only alle- 
gorical,one fact may be depended upon (!) that, as compared 
with their first parents, the Europeans were hopelessly 
matter-of-fact, since the apple of Paris was literally an 
apple, while botanists declare the forbidden fruit of the 
Garden to have been undoubtedly an orange or other mem- 
ber of the citrus family—whether true or typical. (The 
admirers of the chiramoya claim that fruit as Eden’s temp- 
tation, but neither this fact nor those people who would 
decry the Seville as sufficient to drive anyone from Paradise 
need be considered.) 

The imported Moorish orange was planted in great num- 
ber in and about the city of Seville, singly and in groves, 
and immediately so flourished and grew in favour that it 
became widely known as the ‘‘Seville” orange and by this 
name is still recognised throughout Europe where—in Italy 
and other countries, as well as Spain—it is a commercial 
crop of importance, whether exported in natural form or 
otherwise (the peel, dried or candied, or having undergone 
distillation for flavouring or medicinal purposes). 


THE WILD “SOUR,” OR SEVILLE ORANGE 203 


It is now generally conceded that the Spaniards intro- 
duced their adopted fruit into Florida during their earliest 
explorations, although the.seed and soil were so eminently 
adapted to each other and the fruit of their union was so 
prolific that ‘wild orange groves were soon to be found all 
over Florida and in consequence some authorities have 
declared it must be native to the Gulf'regions. The Bitter- 
Sweet (C. aurantium vulgaris) is but a variety of the Seville, 
though Manville, in describing it as a ‘‘tree indistinguish- 
able from the sour,”’ terms it the ‘‘Native wild orange of 
Florida.”’ In flavour this variety is exactly what its name 
indicates, both bitter and sweet. Most of the wild orange 
groves have been killed in some one of the several descents 
to freezing temperature during the last century, or have 
been budded to sweet varieties, as the sour stock is gen- 
erally immune from foot-rot and has all over the world 
proven less susceptible to extreme cold or drought than 
the sweet stock. 

The Aurantium bigaradia, as the Seville is scientifically 
termed, is. smaller than the sweet orange tree, more gen- 
erally inclined to be spiny, and its leaves more truly ellip- 
tical, though both these points vary. The oil cysts are 
concave, the general texture of pulp and rind heavier and 
coarser, and the flavour quite distinct from the common 
sweet orange. The flowers are similar in form and fra- 
grance but susceptible of much variation by cultivation and 
Europeans are familiar with varieties of the bigaradia culti- 
vated exclusively for their floral beauty, as, the Nosegay 
Plant, or le bouquetier of the French, these blossoms grow- 
ing at the end of the branches in thick clusters. Other 
varieties are the double-flowered bigarade, the myrtle- 
flowered and the bizarre bigarades, the last of which has 
purplish-white flowers, and fruit which curiously varies 
in form and flavour. Throughout the semi-tropical 


204 FRUIT RECIPES 


portions of North America the original, simple form of the 
imported Seville orange trees, blossoming and fruiting, also 
offer abundance of beauty to the eye and nostril. But the 
average tourist fails to appreciate this ultimately because 
of lack of proper introduction, the taking for granted that 
this is the sweet orange of common popularity, and the 
consequent shock on discovery of its peculiar acidity. This 
results in sudden coolness, the dropping of the slight ac- 
quaintance, and injury to the wild beauty’s reputation and 
standing in society, whereas, were it but known that the 
Seville is the proud descendant of the ancient Spanish line 
and one of the few remaining tangible traces of the days of 
the gallant Spanish explorers, all this would be avoided. 
It is particularly a pity that the average Northerner misses 
so simple yet so great an intellectual and gastronomic en- 
joyment since the season of the Seville is longer than that 
of the usual sweet varieties, lasting well into the spring 
when sweet oranges are scarce and high in price. In time, 
however, the Seville will doubtless come into favour as has 
the grape-fruit (or pomelo), through similar experience, 
for it was but a few years ago that the pomelo was not 
appreciated; there was no demand for the few shipped 
north and the remainder, almost without exception, lay 
upon the ground until decayed because even in the South 
it was supposed that, although exceptional, depraved 
palates might be educated to the point of imaginary en- 
joyment, the pomelo could not be fit for cookery in any 
form and even uncooked, separated from all “rag” and 
served with sugar, the result was extremely doubtful. 
From the fruit of the Seville much of the citric acid of 
commerce was manufactured until quite recent times. 
From its flowers most of the Oil of Neroli (one of the bases 
of eau de cologne and liqueurs) is made, although the sweet 
orange flowers are also used to a limited extent, and the 


THE WILD “SOUR,” OR SEVILLE ORANGE 205 


oil of bitter oranges is distilled from it. The smallest green 
oranges, sour or sweet, are usually saved in Europe as they 
drop, and are dried to be sold as “orange berries’ for 
various uses,or to be made into Curacoa. The peel is dried 
for medicinal purposes, the resultants being employed in 
stomachics and general tonics. The flowers, also, are dried 
and preserved in Europe, being considered a gentle nerve 
stimulant when infused in boiling water (two drachms to 
a pint) and a cupful of it taken once in a while throughout 
the day. One of the chief uses of both flowers and peel is 
to disguise or flavour other less-pleasing medicinal prep- 
arations. It is never recommended that the peel of orange 
be eaten in its natural form; too much of rind (the Seville’s 
particularly) would be apt to affect one unpleasantly from 
the strength of its oil. The sour oranges themselves are 
shipped in great quantity for making up into the famous 
bitter Scotch Marmalade so much in evidence at British 
breakfasts, where its tonic qualities are considered to en- 
tirely offset any possibility of too much ‘“‘sweet.’’ Orange- 
leaf tea (from sweet, sour, or bitter-sweet trees) is much 
used all over the southern countries as a preventive or cure 
of fevers, even during scourges of ‘‘ Yellow Jack.” Asa 
foundation or component of cooling summer drinks nothing 
is more delicious than the aromatic, acid juice of the Seville 
and it is vastly superior to lemons for ‘‘ Russian tea.’’ Even 
the lime cannot outclass it for flavour and it has almost 
equal power with the lemon in killing typhoid germs. 
For the table it may be halved as is the grape-fruit, 
cutting out the centre and dropping therein sugar, letting 
stand a few hours, but this should be only at its very 
ripest stage. It is an excellent substitute for vinegar or 
lemon juice with salads and a general rule may be laid 
‘down that the Seville may be used in any way that the 
lemon, lime, and sweet orange are employed, allowing for 


206 FRUIT RECIPES 


varying degrees of acidity. Several individual and dis- 
tinctive methods of usage are the following: 


RECIPES 


SCOTCH ORANGE MARMALADE No. 1 


The juice and grated rind of one lemon must be used to 
every four pounds of oranges and the juice of two sweet 
oranges to every pound of bitter or Seville oranges. Pare 
the fruit as thin as possible and cut the peel into very 
small strips. Then quarter the oranges, removing seeds, 
and place in the preserving kettle with only sufficient water 
to cover them. Squeeze with the hand until the heat is too 
great, then press with a wooden spoon through a fine sieve. 
Add the chipped rind and a pound of sugar to each pint of 

eC: 
as SCOTCH ORANGE MARMALADE No. 2 

To two pints of chopped Seville oranges (pulp, rind, and 
juice), add two pounds of yellow honey and cook down to 
proper consistency. 


WILD ORANGE MARMALADE (Florida Recipe No. 1) 


Peel and cut up the oranges and place in fresh water for 
twenty-four hours, then in salt water for the same time and 
again in fresh water, changing the water several times during 
the last twenty-four hours to remove all trace of the bitter 
tone. (If the bitterness is liked soak only as long as de- 
sired.) Use equal weight of sugar and fruit with only 
sufficient water to keep from burning when placed on the 
fire. Cook until rind is soft before adding sugar, then cook 
down as desired and place in heated jars. Seal. 


WILD ORANGE MARMALADE (Florida Recipe No. 2) 


Wash and quarter the oranges, then pull off the peel and 
soak the latter in brine over night. In the morning place in 


THE WILD “SOUR,” OR SEVILLE ORANGE 207 


fresh-water and bring to a boil, pouring off the water and 
replacing with fresh if still too salt or bitter. Remove white 
pulp with a spoon, shred fine or chop the yellow shells re- 
maining and cook in preserving kettle. In separate vessels 
have the pulp and juice cooking. When peel is tender cook 
the two portions in one kettle and when perfectly trans- 
lucent add sugar, pound for pound. A few moments only 
.. will be necessary to cook to proper consistency after this 
preparation. Sweet and sour oranges may be used half 
and half. 
ORANGE AND LEMON MARMALADE 


Take equal parts lemon and Seville and sweet oranges, 
proceeding as for Florida Recipe No. 2 with the exception 
that the water will not have to be replaced after bringing 
to a boil and pouring off the first time. 


PRESERVED SEVILLE ORANGE 


Peel the yellow rind from the fruit then halve crosswise 
and seed. Sprinkle the halves thickly with salt and boil 
fruit in soda water for at least fifteen minutes (a heaping 
teaspoon of soda to each quart of water). Drain and pour 
over the oranges fresh hot water and repeat. If the rind 
is not soft boil it until it is. Make a syrup of a pint of 
water to a pound of sugar (a pound of sugar for each pound 
of fruit) and when thickening well add the fruit, cooking 
it till translucent. Remove oranges, place in hot jars, and 
when syrup has cooked down till quite thick pour over the 
fruit while the syrup is at boiling point, filling jars pretty 
full. Seal well. 


SEVILLE ORANGE JELLY 


Make as for Scotch Orange Marmalade No. 1, omitting 
the chipped rind. Boil the juice with the rind of two sweet 
oranges and two lemons, removing them when the juice 


208 FRUIT RECIPES 


has cooked down rather thick, then strain and add sugar as 
directed. 
SEVILLE ORANGE WINE 


For each gallon of juice add two gallons of water, and 
three pounds of sugar to each gallon of the resulting liquid. 
Let this ferment, covering bung-hole with thin cotton cloth 
only. Fermentation will cease in two months or less, when 
rack off into another receptacle (preferably a good barrel 
each time), stop the bung and keep in a cool place. 


ORANGE BRANDY 


Place the thin-peeled rind of eight oranges with three- 
fourths pint of juice in stone receptacle and pour over this 
a half-gallon of best French brandy. Add after four days 
a pound and a quarter of sugar and stir up well. Let stand 
again, for twenty-four hours, when strain and cork. May 
be used in five weeks. 


DOMESTIC CURACOA No. 1 


Prepare ten oranges as above but do not add juice. The 
dried rind will answer if the fresh is not convenient. Cover 
for four days with a gallon of brandy, then strain, add three 
pounds of sugar, and proceed as above. 


DOMESTIC CURACOA No. 2 


Take the rind of twelve oranges and pour over them a 
gallon of pure whisky. Proceed as above, adding a quarter 
to a half-pound more sugar. 


PRESERVED ORANGE FLOWERS No. 1 


Place alternate layers of orange flowers and salt in jars 
and screw on the covers well. There should be at least 
one-third the weight of the flowers in salt. 


THE WILD “SOUR,” OR SEVILLE ORANGE 209 


PRESERVED ORANGE FLOWERS No. 2 


Pack the full-blown flowers in a jar, close, but not to 
crush them, and when full within a half-inch of the top pour 
over them glycerine which has no odour (but not necessarily 
chemically pure). This is according to Mr. C. R. Tich- 
borne’s successful experiments. (U. S. Dispensatory). 


ORANGE FLOWERS CANDIED 


The flowers may be placed at once in boiling water or, 
as sometimes preferred, soaked in cold water for twenty- 
four hours, this poured off and fresh, boiling water sub- 
stituted. Let the flowers boil a few minutes, then remove 
carefully and lightly pour over them cold water. Drain 
and place on cotton or linen cloth, sprinkling over them 
twice their weight of powdered sugar. Spread then on , 
platters and let stand in a shady place for ten days or less 
that the sugar may be thoroughly absorbed, when place 
‘in sun or cool oven or dryer to dry. Pack away with layers 
of powdered sugar. 


ORANGE FLOWERS PRESERVED IN SYRUP 


Catch the blossoms on sheeting and pour over them boil- 
ing syrup of rather light consistency. Let stand over night 
and next morning bring to a boil, then let stand again twelve 
hours. Repeat, then place in jars while hot and seal tight. 

Or the flowers may be placed at once in a thick bag, as 
for jelly, the syrup poured in with them, and let drip twenty- 
four hours, repeating twice. The flowers may be used 
separately for flavouring butter or sauces or as above 
until the syrup is needed for flavouring, when they may 
be strained out and used. The syrup is most delicate 
for flavouring hot or cold drinks, desserts, cakes, or 
puddings. 


210 FRUIT RECIPES 


ORANGE FLOWER ICING 


Prepare flowers as above, boiling in with the syrup until 
the syrup is ready to slightly harden in cold water. Then 
whip in with the stiff-beaten white of an egg and spread on 
cake or cookies. 


ORANGE FLOWER WATER 


“Take of Orange Flowers, forty-eight troy ounces; water, 
sixteen pints. Mix them and distil eight pints.”—U. S. 
Dispensatory. 
ORANGE FLOWER ICES 


The simple ice, sherbet, cream, or custard may be made 
by using the Introductory Recipes for ices and flavouring 
with the syrup of Preserved Orange Flowers, or the recipe 
for Orange Ice under the Sweet Orange may be used, 
as liked, flavoured with Orange Flower Syrup, or Orange 
Flower Water. 


inom ae . hie 0 3 
PEs ras. 


“OLD BALDY’’ AND NAVEL ORANGES FROM THE 
SAN GABRIEL VALLEY, CAL. 


BLOSSOMS OF THE SWEET ORANGE 


MORTON CITRANGE 


RUSK CITRANGE WILLITS CITRANGE 
IN CENTRE, ORDINARY TRIFOLIATE ORANGE 


CHAPTER XVI 


THE ORANGE (C. aurantium dulcis and C. aurantium 
nobilis) 


F all the members of the citrus family the common, 
sweet orange (C. aurantium dulcis) is undoubt- 
edly the most attractive, with its peculiarly delicious 
flavour and combination, with this, of pleasing 
form and colour. But, although its abundance and 
general low price still further bars the way against 
any citric rival, it should be more indulged in 
than it is since its season is at its height when North- 
ern fruits are not bearing, yet when from climatic 
conditions the blood is sluggish and requires the free use 
of mild fruit acid, and since, while not so powerful in direct 
effect as the lemon, lime, or pomelo, it shares all their best 
qualities and is, like them, anti-scorbutic and tonic. Eaten 
uncooked the orange is most enjoyable and usually gives 
the best and most direct results but one may also prepare 
and serve it in many ways cooked by which its health- 
giving properties may be secured in varying degree.. 

The C. aurantium nobilis, including the varying forms 
of mandarin and tangerine, is seldom used in cookery: 
simply because it is usually more expensive and also is so 
extremely attractive as a table fruit in its natural form, 
convenient and dainty, with the fragrance of rich spiciness 
betraying oriental origin. But the mandarin or tangerine 
may be used as is the common sweet orange and give 
greater variety by the inclusion of its peculiarity of tone. 

Both of these types of orange have been generally treated 


211 


212 FRUIT RECIPES 

under the wild orange in the preceding chapter and some 
of the recipes given there may be adapted to these sweeter 
varieties. 


RECIPES 


SHERRIED TANGERINE 


Cut a slice from across the tops of the tangerines and 
remove the pulp with a spoon. From these pieces take 
all the coarse fibre, then mix the pulp with sugar and flavour 
with sherry. Return the mixture to the shells, chill, and 
serve. 

ORANGES WITH COCOANUT 


Here is a pretty way to vary the usual serving of ‘'Am- 
brosia,”’ as the sliced, cocoanut-sprinkled orange is often 
termed: Halve the unpeeled fruit, then with a small, 
sharp knife remove the pulp from the skins. Place the 
pulp in a bowl and mix with fresh cocoanut if possible to 
secure it (though the desiccated form, soaked a few moments 
in milk may serve the purpose), and sugar, with a dash of 
lemon juice. Replace in the shells and serve each half on 
a small fruit plate garnished with some form of dainty 
leaves. 

ORANGE SALADS 

For any of the following forms of salad peel the fruit 
to the juice-pulp, cutting out core and heavy “rag.’’ With 
quite tart fruit serve the oranges sliced on lettuce, tender 
cabbage leaves or sorrel, with a simple French dressing, 
using wild orange juice instead of vinegar (three table- 
spoons of oil to one of acid). Season with salt and 
paprika or tabasco. 

This dressing may be omitted and the salad varied by 
substituting sherry with a little paprika as a finish. 

Other forms of salad may be prepared by mixing the 


THE ORANGE 213 


orange with chopped celery-stalks, apples and nuts, one 
or all, or with banana alone (sliced) and serving with 
mayonnaise. (See Introductory Recipes.) 


ORANGE OMELET 


Peel three oranges down to the juice-pulp, then slice in 
lengthwise strips until the heavier ‘‘rag’”’ around the core 
is reached. Set these slices aside. Make a plain omelet 
with three eggs, beating whites and yolks separately. 
Add to the yolks one-half cup of orange juice and the 
grated rind of one orange, a saltspoon of salt and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat this in with the stiff- 
whipped whites and place in hot buttered omelet pan. 
When the omelet is set and browning, place the sliced 
orange on top, fold over, and serve at once. 


ORANGE FLOWER SOUFFLE 


Break in bits in a bowl six macaroons (well flavoured 
with almonds) and mix them with a handful of orange 
blossoms or buds, pounding them well together. Orange 
flower water may be substituted (a large wineglassful). 
Also stir in six ounces of powdered sugar. Beat separately 
now the whites and yolks of six eggs: Add the smooth 
yolks to the other ingredients and last stir in lightly the 
stiff whites. Have four ounces of butter heating in the 
omelet pan and when beginning to turn brown pour in on 
it the “batter.’’ When it begins to colour transfer it to 
the soufflé dish (buttered); place in hot oven and bake 
about ten minutes; till slightly browned and puffed quite 
high. On it sift powdered sugar and serve at once. 


ORANGES AND RICE 


This may be prepared and served in two different ways: 
as a breakfast dish or a dessert. If for the former, cook 


214 FRUIT RECIPES 


plain boiled rice, using half milk and half water, and add- 
ing one-half cup of sugar. Serve with thin-sliced oranges. 

As a compote, for dessert, pare the orange to the fruit- 
pulp, then halve (across) and cut out the core of each. 
Have ready a syrup of sugar and water with a little lemon 
juice added, and in this cook the oranges until tender and 
clear, but ot until they come to pieces. Place them around 
a mound of plain boiled rice and pour the syrup over the 
fruit and rice. Serve with cream, whipped or plain, or 
a sweet custard sauce. 

ORANGE FRITTERS 


Make a simple batter (See Introductory Recipes) and in 
this dip slices or sections of orange from which all peeling, 
and core have been removed. Fry at once in hot fat in a 
proper frying kettle and when brown drain, dust with 
powdered sugar, and serve. 


ORANGE SHORTCAKE 


Make a sweet shortcake (see Introductory Recipes) 
and after baking, butter it, then pour over it thin-sliced 
oranges well sweetened. Serve with cream, whipped or 
plain. 

ORANGE SUET PUDDING 

To two cupsful of stale bread add one pint sweet milk, 
one cup fine-chopped suet, three-fourths cup of sugar, two 
well-beaten eggs, a saltspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon 
baking powder, the juice of one orange and grated rind of 
two. Stir together and set aside for twenty minutes in 
a covered bowl, then bake in buttered pudding-dish 
(tying cloth over top), for three-quarters of an hour. This 
may, instead, be boiled, in one mould or in individual, small 
ones, tying the cloth over tops securely and boiling—for 
the large mould, one hour; for the smaller one, forty 
minutes. 


THE ORANGE 215 


ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING 


Mix together two tablespoonfuls or one glass of orange 
marmalade with one heaping tablespoon of flour, the yolks 
of three eggs and whites of two, a pinch of salt, and sugar 
if necessary (according to sweetness of marmalade). Bake 
in a pudding-dish half an hour and when done dot the 
top with meringue made from the stiff-beaten white oi the 
egg and a half-cup of sugar. 


ORANGE SAUCE 


Cream together one cup sugar; half-cup butter, and one 
cup orange juice. 


FILLING FOR ORANGE PIE OR BAKED PUDDING 


Pare to the juice-pulp one large orange, halve and core 
it and cut into small pieces. Add three-fourths cup 
sugar and set aside. In another vessel mix smooth two 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with three-fourths cup of 
sweet milk. Add the zest (see The Lemon) of two 
oranges or grated rind,of one, with one tablespoon of butter. 
Bring this to a boil (in double cooking-vessel) when add the 
yolks of two well-beaten eggs, stir well, and remove at 
once frém the fire. Have ready the pastry baked to a 
pale brown. Line crust with the sliced orange; pour over 
it the custard, and bake a few minutes in a hot oven. When 
done place on the top a meringue made of the stiff-beaten 
whites of the eggs and a half-cup of sugar, and brown 
quickly in the oven. 


ORANGE CHEESE CAKES 


Same as Lemon Cheese Cakes. Substitute orange in 
same proportion. 


216 FRUIT RECIPES 


ORANGE LOAF CAKE 


One cup of sugar; one-half cup butter; three eggs; 
one cup of rich milk or light sweet cream; grated rinds of 
two oranges and their juice. Through three cups of flour 
sift one saltspoon of salt and one teaspoon of baking- 
powder. Ice as for Lemon Loaf Cake. This batter may 
be used for drop cakes as well. 


ORANGE FRUIT CAKE 


For three loaves take two cups each of orange marma- 
lade and chopped, steamed prunes or raisins (or instead 
of two cups of prunes use one cup chopped nuts and one 
of currants or raisins or prunes); three-fourths cup of 
shortening; one scant cup of sugar; three eggs, four cups 
of flour; a teaspoon each of salt and nutmeg; two of 
baking-powder, and a half-teaspoon each of cloves and 
cinnamon. Bake slowly till quite done. In three indi- 
vidual loaves it will require about two hours. 


ORANGE LAYER CAKE 


Make a simple one-egg cake for the layers and place on 
them thin slices of oranges before icing with plain boiled 
icing (see Introductory Recipes). On the top of the cake 
around the edge, may be placed the sections of the oranges 
as a finish to the icing. A custard filling may be substi- 
tuted for the icing (See Lemon Custard Cake). 


ORANGE MACAROONS 


Rub lump sugar on orange rind then roll the sugar and 
add sufficient powdered sugar to make in all one-fourth 
pound. Have whipped very stiff the whites, then add 
yolks of four eggs and beat in the sugar with the strained 
juice of the orange and three heaping tablespoons of flour 
or more (this must be stiff enough to roll into little balls). 


THE ORANGE 217 


Dip the hands in cold water to roll the paste. Lay the 
balls on buttered paper and bake till done. Try them 
well as they will not brown. 


ORANGE COOKIES 


Make according to directions for Lemon Snaps, sub- 
stituting orange. 


ORANGE FOOL 


Add gradually the juice of three large and very sweet 
oranges to eight thoroughly beaten eggs, then whip in a half- 
pint of cream, alittle grated nutmeg, and sugar as re- 
quired. Place in a double boiler and let thicken but not 
boil. When thick pour into a heated glass dish and let 
cool. Place on ice and when chilled serve with cream. 


ORANGE CUSTARD 


Make the same as Simple Lemon Custard No. 1, substi- 
tuting orange rind for lemon. 


ORANGES WITH CUSTARD (So-called Soufflé ) 


Peel, halve, core, and slice six oranges, placing a layer 
in the bottom of a glass dish. Over this sprinkle sugar 
thickly, then repeat process until all the orange has been 
used, then let stand for two hours. Make a soft-boiled 
custard of the yolks of three eggs beaten into a pint of 
boiling milk and stirred gently until the mixture thickens, 
not, however, allowing it to boil after adding eggs. Sugar 
this to taste and let stand until partially cool, when it 
should be poured over the fruit. Beat the whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth with a half-cup of sugar and pinch of salt 
and pile daintily on top. ; 


218 FRUIT RECIPES 


ORANGE TAPIOCA OR SAGO 


Make a simple, clear tapioca (see Introductory Recipes) 
sweetened to taste; add whipped white of one egg and pour 
over sliced oranges. 


ORANGE RICE PUDDING 
Make as for Lemon Rice Pudding. 


ORANGE SPONGE 
See Lemon Sponge. 


ORANGE GELATINE 


Make as for Lemon Jelly No. 2, using instead of one quart 
of water a pint each of orange juice and water and the 
juice of one lemon. 


ORANGE ICE 


Peel six sweet oranges and steep the rind in a quart of 
boiling water for twenty minutes. In another vessel cook 
into a syrup the juice of the oranges and of one lemon, 
with a pint and a half of sugar and teacup of water. Add 
this to the strained liquor from the peel; stir; set aside 
and let cool. When cool add the strained juice of the 
fruit and freeze. This may be made without the peel, 
making a simple, strong orangeade and freezing. 


ORANGE SHERBET 


Proceed as for Orange Ice until the mixture is half-frozen 
then add the whipped whites of two eggs to each quart 
of liquid and finish the process. 


ORANGE DELIGHT 


To the sherbet add grated or shredded pineapple, can- 
died cherries, white grapes, nuts chopped fine, fresh-grated 


THE ORANGE 219 


cocoanut or angelica, mixing as one pleases, and serve 
with a spoonful of whipped cream on top of a spoonful of 
the sherbet in tall slim glasses. 


ORANGE MARMALADE ICE 


Thin a pint of marmalade with a cup of boiling water and 
add one tablespoon of sugar. Strain or leave the bits of 
fruit as they are, cool, and freeze. 


FROZEN ORANGES 


Pare oranges to the juice-pulp; halve, core, seed, and slice. 
To each quart of fruit add one cup of sugar and freeze. 


ORANGE ICE CREAM 


For each quart of new milk and cream (equal parts) 
grate or cut fine the rinds of three oranges, simmering them 
in a pint of water till reduced to one-half pint, then strain. 
When cool add to the milk and cream. Use one heaping 
cup of sugar to each quart of liquid. If preferred, make 
the custard given in Introductory Recipes, adding to it 
the grated rind of three oranges for each quart of custard. 
A half-tablespoon of gelatine dissolved and added just 
before freezing gives the effect of a mousse. 


ORANGE CHIPS (A Confection) 


Peel the yellow rind of oranges in long, thin ‘‘chips’’—and 
for each pound of chips weigh and set aside a pound of 
sugar. Squeeze and strain the juice from the fryit; place 
the sugar with it and let it stand over night. Have the 
peel soaking in a separate vessel of fresh water for the same 
length of time. Jn the morning bring the peel to a boil 
in the water in which it has soaked and let simmer 
till very tender. Meantime cook the sugar and juice 


220 FRUIT RECIPES 


together into a syrup. When the peel is ready drain it 
and place in the syrup,boiling gently until the syrup thickens 
and becomes hard (like candy) when dropped into cold 
water. At this stage lift the chips singly and carefully 
from the syrup, placing them on oiled paper on trays, to 
drain and dry, setting trays in the sun. In twenty-four 
hours remove the strips to fresh paper but leave trays in 
the sun until all moisture has evaporated from the peel. 
This may take weeks. A fruit-dryer will facilitate matters 
if a slow, gentle heat is used. The process will be shorter 
for mandarin and tangerine peel. 


SWEET ORANGE MARMALADE No. 1 


Wash the fruit and with a knife point cut the rind 
through to the pulp lengthwise and around (in the middle) 
so that the rind may readily be taken off either in halves 
or quarters. Put this rind (including yellow and white) 
on the stove in a vessel of cold water and let come to a boil, 
continuing till the rind is thoroughly tender. Cut then into 
fine strips. Meantime have the pulp prepared by halv- 
ing, seeding, and removing the heaviest rag at the core, 
only then slicing it. Put to boil in separate saucepan and 
cook till tender, then set back till rind is soft and clear. 
At this stage add the pulp to the rind, measuring, and 
stirring in equal measure of heated sugar. It will 
take but about twenty minutes to cook down sufficiently 
thick after this; then seal. 


SWEET ORANGE MARMALADE No. 2 


Cook the juice of twenty oranges till it is transparent, 
then add five pounds of sugar and the grated or very fine 
minced rind of the oranges. Boil until translucent and 
very thick, then seal. 

Either formula for the marmalade admits of variation 


THE ORANGE 221 


by the addition of other fruit. When thick and still hot 
apple, pear, pieplant, or fig marmalade or the stewed citron- 
melon may be added in equal quantity, the two cooked 
down together and put up as usual. 


SWEET ORANGE PRESERVES 


Preserves are sometimes made of the halved fruit, with 
the rind. In this case the oranges should be halved and 
cored sufficiently to remove seeds and the heaviest rag. It 
is sometimes considered necessary to let the fruit remain 
in weak brine over night, in the morning draining, placing 
in fresh water, bringing to a boil and repeating the process. 
At other times the prepared fruit is at once put on in fresh 
water and boiled till tender, replacing the water once. 
When translucent add equal quantity of hot sugar and 
cook till sufficiently thick. Still another form is to re- 
move entirely the yellow rind, cooking the halved or 
quartered fruit till tender, then adding sugar; or to prepare 
as a compote, placing the prepared fruit in hot syrup and 
cooking down till ready to seal. 

Orange Preserves may be varied as is the marmalade 
or by the addition of other citrus fruits, or barberry or 
cranberry syrup. 


‘ 


ORANGE JELLY 


To five ripe sweet oranges add one tangerine or mandarin, 
with rind and pulp of seventh orange. Slice fruit whole, 
removing seeds as far as possible. Add one-half pint cold 
water and cook until juice and water have simmered down 
to one scant half-pint, when strain. Heat again and when 
boiling add heaping half-pint of- sugar to each scant half- 
pint of juice. 


222 FRUIT RECIPES 


ORANGE SYRUP 


To each pint of sweet, strained, orange juice add one 
pound of sugar and a little of the grated peel. The peel 
and juice of one lemon may also be added if desired, to 
give piquancy. Boil for fifteen minutes, skimming care- 
fully as scum rises, and straining when ready to remove. 
Bottle and seal tight. This will keep a long time and is 
excellent for use in sweet sauces or cold drinks. 


CREAM OF ORANGE (Old Recipe) 


Chop fine two dozen oranges, peel and all, then.add three 
quarts spirits of wine; one-fourth ounce tincture of saffron, 
one gill orange-flower-water and six pounds of loaf sugar. 
Let stand one month, when filter and bottle. 


ORANGEADE 


For this and other beverages of orange juice see ‘‘ Lemon- 
ade.’ 
SWEET ORANGE WINE 


Methods vary in making orange wine, some wines being 
made with equal parts of orange juice and water and some 
with.the orange juice alone. In either case three pounds 
of sugar should be used to each gallon of the liquid. Let 
ferment in a barrel, covering the bung with cloth. When 
fermentation ceases (from six to eight weeks) rack off into 
another barrel, stop bung, and keep in a cool place. 


ORANGE VINEGAR 


To orange pulp and juice add water and Florida syrup. 
“Mother” will form in a few weeks and strong vinegar 
result. (Cover the jar with thin cloth, only, while vinegar 
is in the making.) 


THE KUMQUAT 


One of the most interesting members of the citrus family: the kin kan 
of the Japanese. The Chinese gold orange: 


S19]SN]9 Ul Y}A013 JO apOUI s}I WO pa[[eo og 
«LINdtddvVay;» YO OTANOd AHL qa LIN adVvaD 


CHAPTER XVII 


THE CITRON, BERGAMOT, LIMEBERRY, 
KUMQUAT, AND TRIFOLIATA 


HE Citron (C. medica) is the heavy-weight of the whole 
Citrus family, although some varieties are no larger 
than certain Shaddocks or Pomelos. Readers of recipes 
sometimes confuse this, the true Citron, with the Citron 
Melon (Pie Melon) which is frequently carelessly mentioned 
as ‘the Citron’”’ without the word ‘‘melon” attached, 
but it bears not only no relation but merely the slightest, 
most superficial resemblance. It is edible (the true 
Citron) only when cooked—preserved in some form— 
but it then has very great food value. It contains more 
protein than most fruits, fresh or dried, and also riches of 
carbohydrates and energy. 

It is usually candied, or preserved in syrup in bulk 
(halves or quarters) and used, chopped, in cakes or puddings, 
but may be varied by combination of the preserve or by 
the use of the syrup for various purposes. 


4 


RECIPES 


TO DRY WITH SUGAR 


’ Citron is useless in its natural state. For keeping for 

home use or market it must be dried and this should be 

done just before the fruit ‘reaches maturity: while still 

green yet well filled out. Quarter it and place in fresh 

water a day anda night. Drain and replace water several 

times, then boil for forty minutes with a little alum and 
223 


224 FRUIT RECIPES 


handful of citron leaves. Drain from this and boil in a 
mild syrup forty minutes longer. At the end of this time 
add sugar, pound for pound (with weight of citron itself). 
Let this boil five or six minutes, then remove fruit and 
cook syrup till thicker. Dip the fruit in it again and boil 
as before, and once more repeat the process before placing 
the citron in the sun to dry. Fill the hollow sides with 
sugar and let fruit remain in the hottest sunshine for as 
many days as required to dry thoroughly, filling the 
hollows every few days with sugar. 


COMMERCIAL CANDIED CITRON (Helen Harcourt) 


Cut the fruit into halves or quarters (according to size), 
then pack it in cask or tub of brine, having first cleaned 
out the pulp, and leave it for a month; then renew the salt 
water and let the citron lie in it for four or five months, or 
as much longer as you choose; this long process is necessary 
to eliminate the bitter principle from the rind, which 
otherwise it is not possible to eliminate entirely. Next boil 
the fruit in fresh water until a fork will easily pass through 
it; it usually takes an hour and a half to reach this point. 
Then put it in cold, fresh water, to remain there for at 
least twenty-four hours, when it will have turned to that 
light green colour which we have learned to associate with 
candied citron. The next step is to drain the fruit, place 
it in earthen jars, and pour over it hot syrup of white sugar 
at 20° sacchrometer; cover it entirely and let it stand 
for three weeks, but the syrup must be poured off twice 
a week, boiled, skimmed, and more sugar added each 
time until the syrup is a little thicker than it was at first 
boiling; turn it back over the fruit at boiling point. The 
three weeks elapsed, put the citron in a vessel containing 
the syrup, with all the sugar it can dissolve; let it boil 
for ten minutes; and then for twenty-four hours keep 


CITRON, ETC. 225 


it near the boiling point without letting it reach it, then boil 
again until no more sugar can be taken up. The propor- 
tion of sugar taken up is about eighty pounds to one hundred 
of the citron rinds. The boiling completed, the rinds are 
spread on wire netting and dried, either in the sun, or, which 
is a far superior method, in an evaporator. 


CITRON IN BRINE 


The fruit may be kept in a strong brine as above, in- 
definitely, until ready to use it as a table preserve or for 
candying. 

CITRON PRESERVE 

Cut the citron in thin slices and soak in a weak brine 
over night, then place on the stove in fresh water and let 
come to a boil. Pour off this water and replace with fresh, 
repeating if necessary (though it may not be). Have 
ready a syrup (as for ices in Introductory Recipes) and 
place in this (at boiling point) the sliced fruit, cooking 
about three-quarters of an hour. Adding more sugar for 
a heavier syrup or cooking longer must depend upon one’s 
individual taste. Lemon or orange marmalade or other 
citrus fruit or juice may be added if to be put up for future 
use. The citron may be preserved in larger pieces by 
lengthening this process. 


CITRON SYRUP AND ICE 


The syrup in which citron has been preserved makes 
variety in flavouring sauces for puddings or the puddings 
themselves. It may be substituted for orange in gelatine 
and for ices, although it is best to use also a little lime or 
lemon juice to bring out the citron flavour. When citron 
preserves have been made—shaved fine+the fruit may 
be used at once for cake or pudding, and the syrup pre- 
served alone. 


226 FRUIT RECIPES 


The true Bergamot (Citrus bergamia) is often 
confounded with the Limeberry, also spoken of as 
Bergamot, but in reality the Triphasia trifoliata. The 
true Bergamot is ‘pear-shaped; pale yellow, with green, 
subacid, firm, fragrant pulp, fruit and foliage distinct.” 
The famous oil known by the name of bergamot is dis- 
tilled from its rind, and formerly citric acid was also ob- 
tained from it. 

The Triphasia trifoliata, or Limeberry (distinct also 
from the Citrus or Limonium trifoliata) is a gooseberry- 
like, deep-red or wine-coloured little fruit about a half- 
inch in diameter. This and the true Bergamot may be 
preserved and treated in general like the orange, with 
adaptations. Both are of the Rutacee. 

The Kumquat (C. japonica) has greatly come into 
favour in America the past few years, but its comparative 
scarcity and high price have militated against an 
intimate acquaintance with its peculiar fascination 
with the general public. Kumquat is a Chinese word of 
poetical significance; meaning Gold Orange. The Japan- 
ese equivalent is Kin Kan. Its combination of Oriental 
spiciness of flavour and fragrance is unique in charm, this, 
whether eaten uncooked or prepared otherwise. The 
thin skin and suggestion of tartness make it a candidate 
for honours in fruit salads in its natural form. 


THE KUMQUAT AU NATUREL 


The kumquat is an exceedingly pretty adjunct to fancy 
dishes of various descriptions or cold drinks. For these 
purposes it may be served whole or halved or quartered, 
or, for table decorations, with the leaves not removed. 
The kumquat may be sliced thin and served in dishes with 
whipped cream or a meringue, or in tall slim glasses with 
sugar and shaved ice. To add wine to this fruit is rather 


CITRON, ETC. 227 


an insult. For a salad few fruits give greater piquancy 
than shaved or quartered kumquats as an accessory, or 
they may form the body of the salad, with a slight addition 
of celery, banana, pineapple, cherry, pear, or orange, etc., 
and nuts if one chooses. As a garnish, also, the kumquat 
is picturesque. 

KUMQUAT PRESERVES 


Make a heavy syrup of four pints of sugar to one pint of 
water. When thick and boiling drop into it the kumquats 
(whole or halved) and boil an hour anda half. (Simmering 
will toughen the rinds.) Seal at once on removing from 
fire or, for immediate use, when cool, serve with cream. 


KUMQUAT JELLY 


In proportion to one dozen kumquats, cut in small 
pieces, use one half-pint cold water. Simmer down to one- 
fourth pint of juice then strain. Re-heat and add a very 
scant half pint of sugar. (See also other citrus jellies.) 


KUMQUAT JAM OR MARMALADE 


The fruit left from jelly may be used, adding no water, 
and sugar, pound for pound, with a little lemon juice, or 
the fresh, sliced kumquats, may be used, cooked till ten- 
der, then sugar added, retaining or not the juice, as liked. 
The fruit may be put through a colander or left in the 
original slices. Cook down to consistency liked. 


CANDIED KUMQUAT 


The fruit may be left whole, halved, or quartered, the 
form deciding the time of cooking. The kumquats may 
be candied as for cherries, or first cooked till tender, then 
placed in a thick, ‘boiling syrup, for fifteen minutes, 
placed in the sun to dry, and the process continued till 


228 FRUIT RECIPES 


sufficiently candied, when sugar may be sprinkled over 
them before packing away, though this may be omitted. 


FROZEN KUMQUATS 


Make a syrup as for ices (see Introductory Recipes) 
and add to it the sliced kumquats in proportion according 
to taste. Let stand till cool, when freeze. Orange, lemon, 
or lime juice may be added. 

The preserve may be frozen, diluted but slightly as it 
comes from the jar, or an ice or ice cream or custard made 
with kumquat syrup. 


KUMQUAT GELATINE 


‘Make as for lemon gelatine, using orange or lime juice 
mixed, or kumquat syrup with a little lemon, adding the 
sliced fruit. 


CHAPTER XVIII 


THE POMELO (OR “GRAPE-FRUIT”), LIME 
Tangelo and Cuitrange 


it is not strange that so many -human beings con- 

sider the pomelo the acme of fruit perfection, or 
that many who at first disliked and merely ate it to follow 
“fashion” should in time have become extremely fond of 
it. Years before it had obtained proper recognition 
among Americans or before its near relation to the so- 
called ‘‘Forbidden Fruit’? was generally known in this 
country it was declared by fruit growers who appreciated 
it that the pomelo must have been that jewel of the first 
garden through which the wise serpent tempted Eve and 
Adam. . 

The Spaniards introduced the pomelo, like the Seville 
orange and the lime, into Florida and, though full recog- 
nition of its value came late, it has attained remarkable 
development commercially and horticulturally and now, 
though for years unsalable in the North, it is the favourite 
though the highest-priced of breakfast fruits. 

The species Decumana, of the citrus family, includes both 
the shaddock and the pomelo, the latter—pomelanus— 
having been nicknamed ‘“‘Grape-Fruit’”’ because of the 
clustering, grape-like groups in which it grows, but the 
two fruits, while of the same species, are yet distinct as to 
horticultural race. 

The name ‘“‘pomelo’”’ seems to have come direct from the 
Dutch ‘‘ pompelmoes,’”’ and that of ‘‘shaddock”’ was taken 
from Capt. Shaddock, its godfather, the old sea-captain 


229 


230 FRUIT RECIPES 


who is said to have first conveyed it into the West Indies. 
Under the shaddock comes that variety so long known 
in Europe as the ‘Forbidden Fruit.” 

The world in general has had a mistaken fashion of eat- 
ing the pomelo before it is mature and thus many times 
has misjudged its flavour. Most varieties do not really 
ripen and attain full richness and sweetness until March 
at the earliest and from then on, through May and into 
June, are at their best. 

While the grape-fruit and lime do not contain so great 
a percentage of citric acid as does the lemon, yet both have 
goodlv share and like all juicy citrus fruits are antiscorbutic, 
while in the pomelo there is in addition, though in lesser 
degree, the same bitter tonic quality possessed by cinchona. 
The grape-fruit should oftener be eaten in its natural state 
‘without wine or sugar, either or both of which, though 
making it very delicious, perhaps detract from the fullest 
value of the pomelo. 

The lime (C. hystrix acida) elicits almost equally great 
praise from other humans, the acid varieties as the basis 
of cooling, wholesome drinks, and the ‘‘Sweet Lime” 
the ‘‘ Lima dulcts”’ of Mexico, in some of the more southern 
of American countries, as a rival of the sweet orange. 

The tangelo, a cross between the tangerine and pomelo, 
is the name by which a new group of citrus fruits is called, 
a group which so far includes but the Nocatee and the 
Sampson tangelo. Its skin is rather thin and readily 
removed; its flavour lacking the extreme bitterness, 
acidity, and sweetness of its parents, yet pronounced in 
individual flavour. With many people it will take the 
place of the pomelo as a favourite breakfast fruit, partly 
because of its more convenient size. 

The citrange is still a newer member of the citrus family 
and also a hybrid, this one the result of the crossing of 


OTHER CITRUS FRUITS 231 


the common orange with the trifoliate orange, the two 
varieties thus far in existence (the Rusk and the Willits) 
being ‘‘reciprocal hybrids.” The Willits -citrange is more 
tart, more nearly resembles the lemon than does the 
Rusk, but both varieties are excellent as citrangeade and 
for general purposes of cookery may be treated as are the 
orange, lemon and grape-fruit, with the necessary adapta- 
tions. 

The trifoliate orange (C. irtfoliata) is the hardy, dwarf, 
Japanese stock formerly so much used for budding on to. 
It is thorny and bears a small yellow fruit not over two 
inches in diameter which is ornamental and aromatic but 
useless, with its bitter, ‘‘gummy” pulp, thick rind and 
many seeds, for eating. 


RECIPES 


GRAPE FRUIT FOR BREAKFAST 


At night halve the fruit across, then with thin, sharp’ 
knife remove upper part of core and seeds. In the hollow 
thus made place a tablespoonful of sugar and set in cool 
spot till morning. Serve without further preparation, 
but with sharp-pointed spoons. 


GRAPE FRUIT FOR LUNCHEON 


Prepare in same manner as tor ‘Breakfast,’ letting 
stand but six hours, however, and on ice, and adding 
tablespoonful of sherry to the sugar in each half of the 
pomelo. Or the pulp may be entirely removed from the 
shell and skin and served in the clean shells with just a 
little sugar, or in sherbet glasses or in individual -glass 
dishes set in outer cups or bowls containing shaved ice. 
If served on the dishes the sections may be left whole; if 
in glasses the pulp shredded. There are many ways of 


232 FRUIT RECIPES 


varying this. Another method more suitable for a dessert 
or other than introductory course is the following: 


PINK POMELO PYRAMID 


Shred from the pulp every vestige of white rag and break 
sections into bits not over half an inch in length. Serve 
in tall slim glasses with a meringue of stiff-whipped white 
of egg and sugar and bits of angelica. A little shaved ice 
may be placed with the fruit. The combination of pink, 
white, yellow, and pale green gives a pretty effect. Where 
the pink pomelos or shaddocks cannot be secured a few 
drops of cochineal may be added to the fruit and sugar 
and let stand an hour or more, or the cochineal may be 
used merely on the bits of ice, or in the meringue. 


POMELO WITH GRAPES 


A pretty addition is made by filling the core-hollow 
first with a little sugar and sherry, then with white grapes 
(halved and seeded), or candied cherries, angelica (cut fine), 
and shredded pineapple. Where these fruits are combined 
the colour effect is charming: the red of the cherries; the 
green of the angelica, with the white and yellow. 


GRAPE FRUIT AND CLAMS 


Place four or five Little-Neck clams in the core-hollow, 
pouring over them a sauce made of horseradish, tomato 
catsup, salt, and a dash of tabasco, blended to taste. 


GRAPE FRUIT COCKTAIL 


To four tablespoons of grape-fruit juice add one table- 
spoon each of simple sugar-syrup, brandy, and maraschino, 
Pour these on to a glassful of shaved ice and when well 
mixed place in the glass from which the cocktail is to be 


OTHER CITRUS FRUITS 233 


served, adding to it a third of a section of fruit pulp from 
which every suspicion of white fibre has been removed. 


GRAPE FRUIT SALADS 


Pomelo may be served in several forms of salad, but in 
all cases the pulp must be perfectly shredded from the white 
“rag,” as the slightest particle will give a bitter taste. 
Serve the fruit on young, crisp lettuce or tender cabbage- 
heart with French dressing or mayonnaise. Chopped 
celery or nuts (chopped, whole or halved, depending upon 
the kind of nut) or some other fruit, as cherries or currants, 
make toothsome additions. A little sugar may be sprinkled 
over the fruit before adding dressing. 


GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE No. 1 


Remove the yellow rind with a sharp knife; place in 
brine and boil till soft and translucent. Then drain and 
soak in fresh, cold water for two hours, after which scrape 
off part of the white pulp and cut in thin slices. Meantime 
have the white rag and seeds removed from the fruit-pulp 
and place latter with juice in a separate vessel. When 
the rind is sufficiently freshened add to it the pulp, with 
equal proportion of sugar, and boil thirty minutes or until 
it jells. 

GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE No. 2 

Peel off the yellow rind and chop or cut in fruit-chopper. 
Bring to a boil in rather strong brine, then drain and boil 
in fresh water. Should this not be sufficient to remove 
bitter taste repeat the process. Meantime pare off the 
heaviest white tissue remaining and cut fruit in half. 
Remove cores, then slice lengthwise and place in granite 
vesssel, bringing to a boil. When the rind is ready add the 
fruit to it and cook until rind is translucent and soft. Then 
add pound for pound of sugar and cook until thick. 


234 FRUIT RECIPES 


GENERAL REMARKS ON POMELO MARMALADE 


Many people soak the rind in salt and water over night 
or longer before bringing to a boil but it seems proven by 
experience to be unnecessary trouble. On the other hand 
some housekeepers do not soak the rind at all but prefer 
to have the whole fruit sliced across, rind and all, removing 
only seeds, and then cooking till tender, changing the water 
perhaps once. By the latter method a trace of the bitter 
principle remains, as with the Seville orange peel, when it 
is preferred. 


GRAPE FRUIT JELLY 


Proceed as for marmalade until fruit is soft and trans- 
lucent, then strain off the juice; heat it again to boiling 
point; boil down for five minutes or until thick, then add 
hot sugar, a pint and a half to each pint of juice. This 
should jell within ten minutes. 


GRAPE FRUIT JELLY No. 2 


Soak rind over night in brine. In morning place in 
fresh water, replacing until all bitterness is removed. 
Slice the fruit-pulp, after cutting off with sharp knife 
the white tissue, and place with rind in jelly kettle. In 
proportion to one grape-fruit use one quart of cold water 
and cook down to one-third pint of juice. Strain and add 
sugar in proportion of a little more than measure for 
measure. 

GRAPE FRUIT DROPS (A Confection) 


Make as for Jelly No. 2, using fruit not yet matured and 
when strained adding to the juice twice as much sugar. 
Stir until it begins to grain, when drop on _ sheets 
of buttered paper. This may be kept in jars for flavouring 
or for grape-fruitade. 


OTHER CITRUS FRUITS 235 


GRAPE FRUIT PRESERVE 


Remove outer, yellow rind and most of the white by 
peeling very thick. Halve the fruit and with sharp knife 
core and seed it. Then slice across and place pulp in granite 
vessel with very little water and cook at moderately quick 
heat. When at boiling point add three-fourths pint of 
sugar to each pint.of fruit pulp and juice, then cook slowly 
fifteen minutes. This may be used at the moment as a 
luncheon or supper dish or sealed in jars. 


GRAPE FRUIT ICE 


Make the same as lemon or orange-ice; a rather 
strong, sweet, ‘‘grape-fruitade’’ with the pomelos alone. 
or adding to each quart the juice of one lemon or two 
oranges (or both). 


GRAPE FRUIT SHERBET 


Take the juice of six pomelos, four cups of sugar, and a 
pint of water. Soak a tablespoon of gelatine in part of 
the water until dissolved, then bring to a boil with the 
water and fruit juice. When cool, freeze partially; add 
whipped whites of two eggs and finish freezing. 


FROZEN POMELO 


Make as for Frozen Oranges, using more sugar and some 
orange juice. 
GRAPE FRUIT WINE 


Make as for Seville Orange Wine. 


POMELO SYRUP 


This may be made from the pulp of the fruit alone or 
with the rind, using about one quart of water to each quart 
of sliced fruit (rind and all). If the rind is used the syrup 


236 FRUIT RECIPES 


will be bitter but will thus contain more of the tonic quality. 
The fruit must be simmered and strained, after adding 
sugar (about one pint to each quart of liquid). This may 
be used with shaved ice for summer drinks or with 
gelatine, etc. 


POMELO AND LIMEADE 


Use these fruit juices separately or in combination, add- 
ing carbonated water and sugar as liked. 


POMELO RINDS IN BRINE FOR PRESERVING 


Always keep these for future use. Place in brine as for 
lemon rinds. See the Lemon. 


POMELO STRIPS CANDIED 


The rind of the pomelo has a most attractive and dis- 
tinctive flavour when candied. First cut and place in 
salt and fresh water till sufficient of the bitterness is with- 
drawn (not all of it), then proceed as for Orange Chips. 


THE LIME 


LIME JUICE FRESH AND IN SYRUP 


Fresh lime juice with water alone is preferred by many 
people to that of any other citrus fruit. It is thirst- 
quenching and a mild tonic. When a dash of calisaya is 
added the tonic effect is of course more pronounced. Lime 
juice may be added to lemonade or orangeade with a most 
pleasant aromatic effect (see the Lemon). To preserve 
the juice of fresh limes unsweetened, care must be used. 
Squeeze the limes and heat the juice to 150° F.; neither 
below this nor above 160°, or the flavour will be ruined. 
Filter while hot through some standard filtering medium 
and it should keep in good condition a year. The juice may 
also be preserved with sugar as for lemon andorange syrups. 


OTHER CITRUS FRUITS 237 


LIME ICE AND SHERBET 


Make as for lemon and orange, being careful to sweeten 
sufficiently. 
LIME ZEST FOR TEA 


Lump sugar rubbed on limes until the oil cells are broken 
gives a dainty flavour to a cup of tea. The sugar may be 
thus prepared and kept in jars till needed, as with lemons 
and oranges. 

PICKLED LIMES (A Dutch Recipe) 


After the fruit is thoroughly washed place it in pickle- 
crocks covered with brine. Place a weight on top and let 
stand. After four days they will be ready to use. Take 
out as needed, only. (Also, see Pickled Lemons.) 


PRESERVED LIMES 


Place the limes in boiling water and keep them cooking 
at this temperature until tender enough to pierce readily, 
when place in fresh water and let just come to boiling 
point. Have ready a syrup made as for ices (see Intro- 
ductory Recipes) and when the limes are ready dash cold 
water over them and drain on a cloth, laying another over 
them. Then place in the boiling syrup and cook gently for 
twenty minutes when remove and let fruit stand in the 
syrup over night. Heat next day, letting boil and stand 
(in syrup) an hour several times after repeating the boiling. 
Then remove limes from the syrup to heated jars and after 
cooking down the syrup till quite thick (add more sugar 
if necessary) pour over the fruit and seal. 


CHAPTER XIX 


THE PINEAPPLE (Ananas ananas: Nat. Ord. 
Bromeliacee) 


UTSIDE of the citrus fruits none is to be found which 
is more entirely beneficial to the human system, 
more simple and direct in wholesome effect than the pine- 
apple when in perfect condition: not the stunted, woody 
specimens too often sold as pineapple. It has not so much 
nutritive value as some other fruits but is rich in mineral 
salts and these, with the water which forms so large a per- 
centage of pine-pulp, and the fruit-sugar, purify the system 
and soothe the stomach. The active principle of the fruit, 
ananasine, may be very properly considered a vegetable 
counterpart of the gastric juice since, as discovered by 
Sefior V. Marcano, the juice of the ordinary pineapple 
possesses the ‘‘power of digesting proteid vegetable and 
animal substances.’’ Chittenden, who, with others, fol- 
lowed up the investigations, found, in addition, that this 
digestant is active with “either acids “or alkaline 
carbonates’’ and that ‘‘the ferment, to which the name 
“‘bromelin’ has been given, is more nearly related to trypsin 
than to pepsin.” The simple fact that pineapple juice will, 
for instance, digest beef, is very interesting to even the 
simplest understanding. 

The juice is extremely healing in catarrhal affections: 
and physicians recommend its use as a gargle for ordinary 
sore throats and even for diphtheria. For the greatest 
benefit to be secured the pineapple is of course best in sim- 
plest form, uncooked, but when eaten as often as fruit 

238 


THE PINEAPPLE 239 


should be eaten, sameness sometimes palls with even the 
most delicious of foods and of this there is no necessity as 
there are many tempting ways of preparing and serving 
the pineapple. 


TO PROPERLY PARE AND THUS PREPARE 


An almost invariable mistake is made by Northerners in 
the peeling of this fruit whole and the attempt to remove 
the eyes with the peel. The pineapple should first be 
sliced across, rind and all, according to the thickness de- 
sired, then each slice taken in turn, in the left hand, held 
with the rind toward one and pared with the right hand by 
means of a slim, sharp knife, inserting point and peeling 
downward, toward one, close to the rind. The eyes may 
now (left exposed without the hard skin) be easily and 
quickly removed with none of the usual awkward hacking 
and loss of juice attendant upon the ordinary method. 


AS A SIMPLE BREAKFAST OR LUNCHEON DISH 


Serve the pineapple in either the simple slices, one for 
each fruit-plate, with or without sugar, as the pine may 
require, or as follows: Take a fully mature, juicy, small, 
unpeeled pine, cut off the stem and twist off the top or crown. 
In the pitted space now exposed drive two slender but stout 
wooden skewers straight down through the apple until the 
points appear at the stem end. Pull the skewers through 
the pine, outward, thus dividing it in half, and then again 
divide, so that the fruit lies in quarters. This can be done 
with little loss of juice. Now tie the quarters together 
with a narrow ribbon, re-insert the crown and place up- 
right on the fruit dish from which it is to be served. Serve 
by untying the ribbon and placing the quarters on fruit 
plates. The ordinary small, sharp, silver fruit-knife will 
dismember the tiny sections of rind so that these little 


ee (1 


PINEAPPLES RAISED UNDER PROTECTION OF 
SLATTED SHEDS 


Method by which the highest-grade “pines” are grown 


THE PINEAPPLE’ 241 


still quite moist sprinkle on top of one-half the omelet a 
cupful of grated or chopped pineapple (fresh or canned), 
fold over and serve at once, sprinkling sugar on top. 


PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE 


This may be made by adapting to Introductory Recipe 


for Soufflés. 
PINEAPPLE MUFFINS 


To two well-beaten eggs add gradually one teacup of 
sweet milk and one-third cup. of melted butter. Thicken 
this with one (sifted) quart of flour in which has been mixed 
three teaspoons of baking-powder, a heaping tablespoon of 
sugar, and teaspoon of salt. When thoroughly beaten add 
one cup of grated pineapple and bake until quite done 
(which will be in about half an hour) in hot, greased muffin- 
rings. Fuill the muffin rings a little more than half full. 


PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 


See Apple Fritters. If the chopped fruit is preferred use 
one cupful to the quantity of batter given. 


PINEAPPLE CAKE 


Beat together one and one-half cups sugar, and one-half 
cup butter. When creamy add one cup of sweet milk and 
two and a half cups of flour through which has been sifted 
one teaspoon of baking powder and a saltspoon of salt. 
Flavour with a few drops of almond and vanilla. Lastly 
beat in lightly the whites of four well-whipped eggs and 
bake in one loaf. Do not ice till cake is cold. For icing 
the top and sides soak one-third box gelatine in a little 
water, then beat till quite dissolved. In a separate bowl 
whip well the whites of two eggs, adding to them when stiff, 
one-half cup sugar, the dissolved gelatine, and two cups 


as “FRUIT RECIPES 


grated pineapple. Stand in a cold place for half a day 
before serving. 

Or a more simple batter may be made and baked in layers, 
the filling to be made of one pint whipped cream and one 
cup grated pineapple sweetened to taste. 


PINEAPPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING 


To a half-cup of tapioca, prepared with a quart of milk 
or water (see Introductory Recipes) allow one pint of diced 
or grated pineapple, pouring it in when the pudding has 
partly cooled. 


PINEAPPLE PUDDING OR PIE FILLING 


Slice, pare, and chop a pineapple, which if not thoroughly 
tender and sweet should stand an hour with sugar liberally 
sprinkled over it. Arrange in a buttered pudding-dish 
slices of bread, over which pour the juice from the apple 
and sugar. Beat the yolks of three eggs with half a cup of 
sugar, adding last the whites, which should have been beaten 
separately. (A tablespoon of white wine and half a cup of 
chopped almonds will improve this.) Pour over the juice- 
soaked slices and bake. The pudding minus the bread may 
be used as pie-filling. 


COMPOTE OF PINEAPPLE 


Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in one-half cup of water. 
Make a syrup of one cup of water and one-half cup of sugar 
in which, while hot, mix thoroughly one (whole) shredded 
pineapple. When at boiling point remove and when slightly 
cooler add the gelatine, pour into mould, cool, then place 
on ice. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 


Grate one small pine (or use one-half pint can of preserved 
fruit), add two-thirds cup of sugar and one-half cup of 


THE PINEAPPLE 243 


water; place on stove and let simmer: Meantime have 
ready one-half package of gelatine which should have been 
dissolving for half an hour in one cup of water. When 
the pine has simmered for ten minutes\add the gelatine; 
strain into a mould and let cool for half an hour. Now add 
the stiff-beaten whites of three eggs and a little lemon 
juite; place mould in outer dish ofice-water and beat the 
mixture until it thickens somewhat, when set on ice to 
harden. 

It should be remembered that when gelatine is used with 
pineapple the resulting concoction must be chilled as soon 
as possible and used not later than two hours after making 
on account of the chemical action of the peculiar elements of 
this fruit on the gelatine. 

A variation of the above is found in the recipe below. 


PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 


Place in a saucepan with one cup gtated pineapple, half 
a cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of water, and simmer for five 
minutes. Add juice of half a lemon; take from fire; cool, 
stir in one cup of whipped cream or one-fourth cup gelatine 
(dissolved in one-fourth cup of water), pack the mould 
round about with ice, and let stand two hours. 


PINEAPPLE ICE 


For one can grated pineapple or one pint fresh fruit use 
one pint each of sugar and water and juice of one lemon. 
Mix and freeze. Or see Introductory Recipes. 


PINEAPPLE SHERBET 


See Introductory Recipes or use the following: To 
one quart of boiling water add one and one-fourth 
pounds of sugar and juice of two lemons. Cook this for 
five minutes. Take from the fire and add two large 


244 FRUIT RECIPES 


pineapples grated, or one quart can of grated pineapple. 
Strain through a cloth, pressing hard to get out all the juice. 
Then freeze partially, when add beaten whites of two eggs 
and complete the freezing. 


PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 


Make as in Introductory Recipes and let cool. Meantime 
have ready grated pineapple—one pint to each quart of 
cream and milk. Let it stand in alittle sugar and lemon or 
orange juice. Partially freeze the cream before adding 
fruit, then ,stir it in and finish the process. The reserved 
pineapple syrup may be substituted for the fruit. In this 
case a little dissolved gelatine may be used. 


FROZEN PINEAPPLE CUSTARD 


Add to a quart of milk a tea-cup of sugar and bring to a 
boil. Add four well-beaten eggs and let the mixture 
thicken, watching carefully, however, that the mixture does 
not again boil. Let this cool, then add one pint of pineapple 
juice or one pint of grated pineapple and freeze. A little 
lemon juice added will bring out the fruit flavour. 

4 


FROZEN PINEAPPLE 


Grate or chop fine one quart of pineapple, adding sugar 
in proportion of one cup to one quart of fruit, if tart; if 
sweet, less. Or, the grated pineapple may have syrup added 
to it instead of the sugar. The white of egg or other fruits 
make variation, also. 


PINEAPPLE JELLY No. x 


Dissolve one package of gelatine in a pint of cold water, 
gradually heating it through on the stove. When at boiling 
point add one cup of sugar and take off to cool. When the 


THE PINEAPPLE 245 


gelatine is beginning to harden beat into it the juice of one 
pineapple and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and place on 
ice to harden. 


PINEAPPLE JELLY (WITHOUT GELATINE) No. 2 


Wash thoroughly one pineapple, cut off stem and crown 
and slice in thick slices unpeeled, then cut across. With 
this slice in thinly two lemons, including rind, and simmer, 
with one pint of water, for several hours. Strain and 
squeeze through jelly bag, and place again on stove. When 
at boiling point strain again into another pan, bring to 
boiling point and add sugar, pint for pint. Cook about 
ten mitiutes, when it will jell. Pineapple makes up into 
everything in the way of marmalade, and preserves, how- 
ever, a little more satisfactorily than in the pure jelly form 
(without gelatine), as its juice is inclined to be sticky and 
rich rather than sharp and firm. 


PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 


Use perfectly ripe, sweet pines, slice and pare, then cut. 
into small pieces. Allow three-fourths pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit, mix in granite or porcelain bowl, and 
let stand over night in cool place (preferably on ice). In 
the morning remove from ice and cook gently for an hour. 
At the end of this time press through a fruit-crusher or 
coarse sieve with potato masher. Replace on stove and 
cook half an hour longer, until clear and golden in colour 
and it curls stiffly and gently when finger is thrust through 
it, then place in little pots. 


PINEAPPLE JAM 


Grate the fruit and place in preserving kettle with sugar, 
pound for pound. Let heat gradually for twenty minutes 
then simmer for nearly an hour. Less time may be sufficient 


246 FRUIT RECIPES 


as much depends upon quality of fruit. If extremely 
juicy some of the liquor should be strained from the fruit 
before cooking. 


PRESERVED PINEAPPLE (Sliced and Cooked) 


Cut in slices, then pare the fruit, placing alternate 
layers of pineapple and sugar (pound for pound) in pre- 
serving kettle. To each pound of fruit add one-half cup 
of water, pouring this in after fruit is placed with sugar. 
Heat to boiling point, then take out the slices and spread 
in the sun on dishes. Meantime gently boil the syrup for 
forty minutes. At the end of this time place pineapple 
again in kettle and cook all together for twenty minutes. 
Then remove the fruit, placing it in jars and pouring on it 
the boiling syrup. Seal at once. 


PRESERVED PINEAPPLE (Uncooked and Grated) 


In the North, where the climate is less trying to preserved 
fruits than in the extreme South, pineapple may be grated 
and preserved uncooked for culinary or medicinal use. 
Use one pound of sugar to each pound of grated fruit and 
let stand twelve hours in covered jar in a cold place, if 
possible, on ice. Then place in jars which (with tops and 
bands) have been thoroughly sterilised. As an additional 
safeguard the tops may be dipped in sealing wax or par- 
affine. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE (Without Sugar) 


Slice, pare, and heat thoroughly the ripe pineapples to 
be canned. When boiling remove and place immediately 
in sealed jars. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE (With Sugar) 
Use three-fourths pound of sugar to each pound of 


shredded fruit and to each pint of sugar one teacup of 
water. Heat through and when boiling, can. 


THE PINEAPPLE 247 


PINEAPPLE CHIPS 


The pines should be sliced thin and pared, placed on dishes, 
and covered thickly with powdered sugar. For ten days 
these dishes must be kept in a slow oven or other heated 
place, and the slices turned each day. At the expiration 
of this time place the slices in a quick oven for just ten 
minutes, then remove, cool, and place between layers of 
paper with powdered sugar sifted over the fruit. 


PINEAPPLEADE 


Boil the parings of pineapple (or with the chopped fruit), 
and allow the liquid to cool. Add juice of lemon or limes 
and sweeten to taste. 


PINEAPPLE, LEMON OR LIMEADE 


For each glass to be served take one tablespoon each of 
pineapple and lemon or lime juice; and a half-teaspoon 
of grated orange-peel. Sugar to taste. Fill up the glass 
with hot or iced water. 


PINEAPPLE SYRUP 


Slice, pare, and dice three pounds of pineapple. Place 
in preserving kettle, add one quart of water and one 
pound of sugar. Cook till very soft, when the fruit should 
be mashed and strained. Replace in kettle and to each 
pint of juice add one pound of sugar and cook to a rich 
syrup. Bottle when hot and cork tightly and it will be 
ready for use at any time for sauces or drinks. 


PINEAPPLE PUNCH 


Grate one fresh pine or use a quart can of the preserved, 
grated apple, or chop fine one can of the sliced pineapple. 
Add to this at least one quart syrup from any preferred 
fruit, preserved or fresh (as canned raspberries, cherries, 


248 FRUIT RECIPES 

fresh strawberries, or oranges, etc.), also a half dozen each 
of lemons and oranges, unless the latter have been used with 
the pineapple, when substitute lime or grape-fruit in suf- 
ficient proportion. The citrus fruit juice prepared, may 
be squeezed out and the pulp allowed to remain in the 
fruit or may be sliced across very thin. Over this pour 
a hot syrup made as for ices (see Introductory Recipes) 
and let stand about three hours when strain and add a 
half gallon of ice water and shaved ice. (The preserved 
fruit added need not be strained out or, if preferred, 
fresh, diced, or sliced fruit may be substituted.) 


PINEAPPLE CHAMPAGNE 


For this the parings alone may be used or in conjunction 
with the chopped fruit, allowing to and pouring over the 
parings of one small pine a pint of boiling water. After 
letting it steep till cold sweeten to taste, then strain and 
bottle, fastening corks very tight. If kept in warm place 
(bottles on the side) it should be ready in twenty-four 
hours. When ripe cool the bottles in ice water. 


PINEAPPLE BEER 


This, while similar, is more simple than the “‘ champagne.” 
The parings must stand in a covered crock for three days— 
covered with cold water and sweetened to taste. At the 
end of this time the beer is ready to strain and use. 


PINEAPPLE VINEGAR 


Pineapple parings should never be thrown away as there 
is no finer vinegar in the world in flavour and colour than 
that made from pineapples. The fruit parings (fruit may 
also be added) should be placed in crocks and covered with 
water, sugar or syrup being added in quantity according to 


THE PINEAPPLE 249 


the condition of the fruit, and allowed to ferment thor- 
oughly. When this has been accomplished—watched and 
skimmed meantime—-the vinegar must be strained from 
the fruit and placed in jars or bottles. 


CHAPTER XX 
THE BANANA, (Musa, Nat. Ord. Musacee) 


ERHAPS no form of plant-life, with the exception of 
the palm, is more typically tropical in appearance 
than the Musa (including both plantain and banana); 
none is more widely cultivated through the variations of 
the warmer climates, and nothing has ever been found in 
the vegetable kingdom which could with such entire satis- 
faction or in so wholesale a manner take its place in the 
countries where it grows. The names of the plantain 
(‘‘type of the species’), M. paradisiaca, and a variety of 
it, M..sapientum, or ‘‘horse banana,” indicate the esteem 
in which this fruit-food is held—its honour ‘in its own 
country.”” The former was so called by the early oriental 
Christians, it is said, who, venturing boldly to differ from 
those idealists mentioned in connection with other fruits, 
betrayed a certain materialistic tendency in imagining 
the banana to have been the cause of the dissension in the 
original garden. If it was there was indeed irony in the 
wisdom of the serpent’s choice (or must we credit him 
with kindly foresight?), as the plantain provides not only 
food and drink for man and beast but shelter, since the 
large leaves make an excellent thatch, and also, we are 
told, readily furnish ‘‘table covers and parasols!’’ ‘‘Sap- 
ientum” means ‘‘of the wise men,” in allusion to the choice 
of the banana as food by the wise men of India—this ac- 
cording to Theophrastus. 
The banana is certainly, with many hot-country 
peoples, the ‘‘staff of life.’’ It is perhaps the best of all 


250 


THE BANANA 251 


starch-foods and healthful when eaten with an under- 
standing of the fruit’s very substantial and sustaining 
nature. From its composition and wholesome qualities 
a likenessis directly traceable to wheat bread. The nourish- 
ment to be derived from the banana is very great and it 
has been stated that ‘‘one pound of bananas is equal to 
three pounds of meat in nutriment,’’ which, however, 
should be considered conditionally or ‘relatively. Lean 
beef, for instance, contains chiefly protein (no carbohy- 
drates) while bananas are essentially a starchy food, con- 
taining an exceedingly small per cent. of protein and made 
up almost entirely of the carbohydrates. 

With children the banana should be cut intg bits or 
mashed, not merely because of the danger of choking on 
the larger, solid, slippery pieces so often mistakenly given 
them, but because, as with adults, it is usually not suf- 
ficiently masticated, gives trouble in the process of dis- 
integration and so is considered indigestible: the difficulty 
being plainly with the people and not with the banana. 
(The M. Cavendishi, or Cavendish, and M. Orientum, or 
Hart’s Choice, or Lady Finger, are the most delicate for 
eating uncooked). — 

The luxuriance of the banana plant is typified in the 
long and broad rich leaves of soft, satiny texture, (though 
firm and somewhat velvety in the earlier stages}. But 
these elongated, vegetable, elephant’s ears soon have their 
smooth surface disturbed, for the wind, brushing their 
helpless delicate weight, quickly tears them into fine-frayed 
ribbons. These, when first unfolding, have their tender, 
pea-green breadths cut up for cooking like vegetables 
among some of the tropical peoples. 

The banana blossom is one of the most beautiful creations 
of nature. It consists of fold after fold of close-sheathed, 
shell-like leaves, under each of which a circle of embryo 


282 FRUIT RECIPES 


bananas lies. These leaves, the lining of which is of a 
deep, delicate maroon, and the outside of dusty, silvery- 
gray richness, rise slowly up and back as the little bananas 
grow, protecting. them from too great degree of sun or 
dampness, finally curling and withering as the stem lengthens 
and the bananas, filling out gradually, need no longer their 
care. : 


RECIPES 


ot ICED BANANA SOUP 
Mash four bananas; pass them through a sieve; measure, 
then add twice this quantity of cold milk, sugar to taste, 
a pinch of salt, and the grated rind of an orange. Place on 
stove and when at boiling point add two teaspoons of corn- 
statch. Cook five minutes; remove and cool, then place 
on ice. Serve in bouillon bowls, adding to each a few 

creme de menthe or maraschino cherries. 


BANANA SALAD 


Batnianas may be sliced, diced or crushed, to be served 
with fine-sliced orange, or diced apple and nuts, on the 
tenderest lettuce. Pineapple or cherries may be added. 
Use the cream or liqueur-flavoured dressings given in 
Introductory Recipes. 


BANANA OMELET 


Beat three eggs separately, adding whites last, with a 
half-cup of sugar and breadcrumbs, a pinch of salt, and the 
pulp of three bananas. Into this stir the stiff whites and 
cook in omelet pan. 


BAKED BANANAS 


The banana may be baked whole, one side of the skin 
being stripped back in this case, or it may be peeled and 


THE BANANA 253 


cut in halves or quarters. The fruit should be placed in 
a baking-pan sprinkled with cinnamon, a half-cup of sugar, 
a pinch of salt, and tiny bits of butter. Pour into the pan 
a half-cup of water and baste frequently while baking in a 
quick oven. Lemon juice may be substituted for cinna- 
mon, making it into a syrup before baking, then pouring 
over the fruit when placed in oven. Applesmay be baked 
with the peeled bananas, with delicious results, adding a 
dash of lemon juice. 


FRIED BANANAS 


Peel and split bananas; dip each half into well-beaten 
egg, then into fine bread crumbs just before frying in 


hot oil. 
STEWED BANANAS 


Peel six bananas which are not too ripe; cut in half 
crosswise and place in a saucepan with three-fourths pint 
of claret, two tablespoons of sugar, and a tablespoon of 
lemon juice. Simmer for half an hour, then set off to cool; 
place on ice and serve with whipped cream, Apples or 
other fruit may be added. 


BANANAS WITH RICE 


Bananas stewed or baked may be served with rice 
sweetened or plain boiled, the rice heaped in the centre 
with a border of the fruit. 


BANANA FRITTERS (In Halves) 


Let bananas stand for an hour in a deep dish with lemon 
juice and sugar sprinkled over them, also the grated rind 
of an orange if convenient. Then cut bananas in half and 
dip each piece in batter (see Fritter Batter; Introductory 
Recipes). When brown drain and serve with sugar (pow- 
dered) sprinkled over them. 


254 FRUIT RECIPES 


BANANA FRITTERS (Crushed) OR PANCAKES 


Crush pulp of six bananas and to this add the beaten yolks 
of two eggs, a little salt, a tablespoon each of butter and 
sugar, ofie and a half cups of flour, and small teaspoon of 
baking-powder. Add beaten whites of eggs last and drop 
from spoon into frying kettle. Serve as above. For 
pancakes make a thinner batter, putting fruit through 
sieve and cook as for the regular pancake. 


BANANA PIE 


Mash or grate a banana, add yolks o. three eggs, two 
tablespoons of sugar and three-fourths pint of milk in 
which has been dissolved a tablespoon of cornstarch. Let 
cook in double-boiler till thick, then place in a pastry- 
shell just baked. Spread over the top a meringue made 
with the whites of the eggs and half-cup of sugar; set in 
the oven and let brown before serving. 


BANANA CUP CAKE 


One cup of sugar, three of flour, one and a fourth cups 
of banana pulp, and two teaspoons of baking-powder. 
Grate orange or lemon peel over the top and bake. 


BANANA AND NUT LOAF (For Tea Cake or Pudding) 


To one cup crushed banana pulp add one cup each of 
chopped nuts, grated cocoanut, oatflakes and cracker 
or breadcrumbs, and one-half cup sugar. Into this sprinkle 
two teaspoons eachof butter and baking-powder, one of salt, 
and sufficient flour to bind together in thick batter. Bake 
in moderate oven forty-five minutes. 


BANANA LAYER CAKE 


Any simple cake batter may be used for the body of the 
cake (see Introductory Recipes). The filling may be 
made in any of these ways: 


THE BANANA 255 


No. 1. Spread sliced bananas over the layers and on 
the banana place lemon or apple jelly. 

No. 2. Instead of the jelly substitute a plain icing. 

No. 3. Substitute whipped cream for the jelly. 

No. 4. The pulp of six bananas may be beaten up with 
a pint of whipped cream or the stiff-whipped whites of two 
or three eggs and a little sugar. The cream or egg may 
also be used on top of the cakes. 


BANANA NUT STRIPS 


To two cups of mashed banana pulp add one cup each of 
oatflakes, flour, chopped nuts, and sugar with a half-cup of 
shortening and saltspoon of salt (or more). Roll out a 
quarter of an inch thick and cut in strips. Baké in brisk 
oven. 

BANANA SHORTCAKE 


Between the layers of a simple but sweetened biscuit- 
dough pour, just before serving, the crushed pulp of six 
bananas into which has been stirred juice of one orange 
(or other slightly tart fruit), half a cup of sugar and the 
whipped white of an egg or cup of whipped cream. 


THE SIMPLEST BANANA DESSERT 


To eight sliced bananas add one cup of sugar, the juice 
of one lemon, and serve with shaved ice in tall glasses or 
dainty dishes, adding a teaspoonful of whipped cream 
or white of egg to top off each one. A little white wine 
may be added if desired, or a sprinkling of chopped nuts. 


BANANA BLANC MANGE 


‘To one quart boiling milk add one-half cup of sugar, 
a pinch of salt, and three tablespoons of cornstarch dissolved 
in one-half cup of cold water. When it thickens stir in 


256 FRUIT RECIPES 


the pulp of three large bananas and the stiff-beaten white 
of anegg. Set away to cool ina mould. Serve with thin 
custard sauce. 


WHIPPED BANANAS 


To the pulp of five bananas add the juice of two oranges, 
the grated rind of one, a tablespoon of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and one-fourth box gelatine dissolved in a little 
cold water. Chopped nuts or candied cherries may 
be stirred carefully in. When cooled on ice beat in lightly 
a piht of whipped cream or whites of two eggs and place 
in mould. 


LITTLE SOUFFLES 


Stir juice of two lemons or other tart fruit into the mashed 
pulp of six bananas and rub through sieve. Add one pint 
whipped cream, or whipped white of egg and cream mixed, 
and bake briskly, serving at once, ot freeze as ice cream. 
Raspberry or other flavouring may-be added if liked. 


BANANA TOAST 


Lay slices of banana between thin bread, buttered, in 
baking-pan and place in hot oven till lightly browned. 
Serve immediately. Or make Banana Pudding Sauce 
with one pint milk, tablespoon each butter, cornstarch 
and sugar, pinch of salt, and pulp of four bananas stirred 
in just before serving, when pour the whole over slices of 
thin, crisp toast. 


BANANA PUDDING 


Mash six bananas and-add otte tablespoon cornstarch 
rubbed smooth in half a cup of cold milk. Add a half 
cup of sugar and a pinch of salt and place a layer of this in 
bottom of baking-dish. Over this sprinkle crisp bread or 


W01}99{01d yNoY}IM Op oO} YFnous sinyeul swovaq svULUe ZIT JO SMOI 
94} se yoeq Aum Jeay yoea ‘earssatgoid pue aatssavons ‘yimay a} JO UOTYEULIOJ ay} SMOYS IJ9] 94} 0} Wosso[q o4h 


VNVNV@ CHL 


CALIFORNIA FIGS 


THE BANANA 257 


cracker-crumbs mixed with one cup chopped peanuts. 
Repeat the alternation of layers, having two of each. 
On top sprinkle sugar and bake forty minutes in moderate 
oven. (Satice: see above.) 


BANANA ICE AND SHERBET 


Make syrup as in Introductory Recipes, adding crushed 
bananas to taste. 


BANANA ICE CREAM 


To the crushed pulp of six bananas add one cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, and one quart. milk and cream 
mixed. Mix well and freeze. 


FROZEN BANANAS 


Add to one dozen crushed bananas the juice of two 
oranges and a pint of sugar. Freeze partially, then add 
the whipped whites of two eggs and finish freezing. 


FROZEN BANANA CUSTARD 


To the regular custard for freezing (see Introductory 
Recipes) add the crushed pulp of four or five bananas and 
pinch of salt. Freeze. 


BANANA MARMALADE 


Make a syrup of two cups of sugar to one of water and 
cook till it strings from the spoon. Stir into it then the 
crushed or cubed pulp of four bananas and cook slowly 
(where there is no danger of burning) until thick. (About 
fifteen minutes). The addition of lemon, currant, or other 
tart fruit juice relieves the intense sweetness but does not 
detract from the banana flavour. 


258 FRUIT RECIPES 


BANANA JELLY 


Make a plain gelatine (see Introductory Recipes) with a 
decidedly tart flavour and add cubed or crushed bananas 
in quantity liked. 

“MUBISI” (S. African Unfermented Banana Wine) 
P. W. Humphreys, (“What to Eat’’) 

“A big hole is dug in the ground, lined by banana leaves, 
filled with unripe bananas, and kept covered by mats and 
earth until the fruit has become completely ripe. Then 
the bananas are slit, mixed with fine hay,-and placed in a 
large, boat-like, wooden trough which at one end has an 
emptying pipe. After the addition of some water the wholeis 
thoroughly mixed by the hand or by short wooden sticks. 
Thereupon the trough is covered with banana leaves and 
the mixture is left standing for about one or two hours. 
After the expiration of that time it is taken out and through 
grass sieves poured into large calabashes. It is then ready 
for use and represents a sweet, agreeable and not intoxi- 
cating beverage. 


“MUENGE” (Fermented Wine) P. W. H. 


“If the mubisi is left standing for three days it under- 
goes a fermentation and becomes a slightly acid, refreshing 
beverage which is strongly intoxicating. If it is filled into 
bottles and they are kept well corked at a cool place for 
several months one obtains a sparkling wine strongly 
resembling champagne. 


BANANA BEER, P. W. H. 


“If a larger or smaller quantity of millet (boiled) is added 
to it and the mixture is left standing in large earthen pots 
for two or three days and stirred from time to time, it 
becomes a beer which, according to the quantity of millet 
added, is more or less intoxicating.” 


THE BANANA 259 


DRIED BANANAS 


Bananas are dried in the tropics by simply pressing 
through a sieve and spread out in the sun in cakes till 
sufficiently evaporated to store away for future use. 


BANANA FLOUR 


From the banana flour obtainable in Mexico, pancakes, 
muffins, etc., are made as by the regular recipes with changes 
according to the strength of the flour. 


BANANA SANDWICHES 


Slice and serve the fruit between Banana Loaf or plain 
bread with mayonnaise, or add lemon juice to the crushed 
pulp. Cress may be added. 


CHAPTER XXI 
THE FIG (Moracee) 


HE Ficus carica, or common fig, is but one of more than 

a hundred species of a most interesting fruit which 

from the earliest of ancient times has, in its varying forms, 

been accorded not only a place of importance but honour 

and reverence. Biblical records mention the fig as clothing, 

food, and medicine, and, regarding the first, were foliage 

available for modern costumes the fig tree would be en- 

hanced in value because of the infinite variety of its leaf- 

patterns; two leaves, even on the same tree, seldom being 
found exactly alike. 

The Egyptian Sycamore (Ff. sycamorus) which is sup- 
posed to be the sycamore of the Scriptures, the Banyan 
(F. Indica), the India Rubber tree (F. elastica), or ‘‘ Caout- 
chouc,”’ and the renowned Peepul Tree of India (F. religtosa: 
the Bo Tree of Ceylon) are among the many species of the 
fig, and the oldest tree in the world is a Ceylon Bo Tree 
whose age is estimated by historical records to be over 
two thousand years. The Hindus venerate the Sacred Fig 
because Vishnu is said to have been born under it and the 
Buddhists because under one of them they believe ‘‘Gotama 
Buddha reclined at Uruwelaya when he underwent his 
apotheosis.” Colder countries are not strangers to the fig 
for it is cultivated many degrees north of the frost line in 
both Europe and America though, as in France and 
England, winter-protection is a necessity. 

Either green or dried figs are excellent food and as a 
whole the fryit has no superior in healthfulness. Its large 

260 


THE FIG 261 


amount of sugar is nourishing and being one of nature’s 
best laxatives, pleasant to the taste, mild yet positive in 
effect, it may be given more freely—with greater safety 
in quantity—to many more people (from children to 
those most advanced in years) than decidedly acid fruits. 
Figs are also considered good for the kidneys and because of 
their demulcent property are sometimes given in pulmonary 
troubles. Externally applied they are considered very 
healing (as in the days of Hezekiah) and so, roasted gently 
or boiled, the inner part is not infrequently used as a poul- 
tice. It is said that among the Malays the juice of one 
species of fig, the F’. toxicaria, is used for poisoning arrows. 
With some figs the milk is very mild but with many others 
is acrid though not harmful as with the toxicaria. It was 
without doubt this very common, temporary stinging sen- 
sation which gave rise to the custom of eating fresh figs as 
below. 

Wherever this fruit grows every effort should be made 
to put by a goodly store for future use for, perhaps, in 
addition to its wholesome qualities there is no fruit which 
dried, or preserved by some method of cooking, so retains or 
so transforms its charms into equal attractiveness. It is 
almost unique in being as agreeable dried as in its original, 
fresh juiciness and its saccharine quality is greater. 


RECIPES 


TO EAT FRESH FIGS 


When figs are served at the table uncooked hold them 
by the stem and with a small knife cut the fruit across twice, 
at right angles, downward as far as the stem. Thus 
quartered the pulp will open and hang slightly outward 
but will not become entirely detached. Then with the 
knife separate the pulp from the skin, gently scraping it 


262 FRUIT RECIPES 


toward one, from the centre, or stem-heart, downward. 
By this method one secures the entire pulp without the 
skin and in convenient bits for eating. 


STEWED FIGS 


Figs may be stewed in three different ways, if the dried 
fruit is used: 

No. 1. Wash figs and place in cold water over 
night, using a pint of water to a pound of figs. Next 
morning bring the figs (in same water) slowly to a boil and 
when tender add half the quantity of sugar that there is 
juice, cooking down till the syrup is thick. Serve cold 
with cream. , 

No. 2. Steam the figs till soft, then place them in 
boiling syrup for a moment, setting them back where 
they will not even simmer, for twenty minutes or more, 
when remove the figs, cook down syrup till thick and pour 
it over the fruit. 

No. 3. Wash and cover the figs with wine, letting 
stand over night. Then barely simmer till tender, 
treating the syrup as above. 

Fresh figs require simply simmering a few moments in 
very little water before adding sugar, when let a syrup 
form before removing. Pineapple, ginger, lemon, rhubarb, 
or other fruits may be used to flavour. 


BAKED FIGS 


Place fresh figs in a small crock or earthenware dish, with 
a little sugar and lemon juice or that of other fruit. Cover 
and bake slowly and no water will be required. 


TO FRESHEN FIGS 


Place dried figs in an enamelled colander and steam until 
soft and filled out in appearance. Remove and prepare 


THE FIG 263 


further for cooking as desired or roll in confectioners’ 
sugar and set aside to partially dry before serving. A drop 
of tart fruit-juice and a little sugar may be placed inside 
the fig. 
STUFFED FIGS 

Remove the inside of steamed or fresh figs and mix the 
part removed with chopped nuts moistened with a syrup 
of sugar and tart fruit-juice (cooked or uncooked). Roll 
in sugar and serve. 


FIG LOAF CAKE No. ¢ 


Cream two cups of brown sugar with one of butter. Add 
one cup of water, four eggs, three and three-fourths cups 
of flour, one teaspoon each of soda and grated nutmeg, and 
two of cinnamon. Have ready, chopped and floured, one 
pound of figs cut in fine strips lengthwise, and three cups 
chopped raisins, adding these just before baking. 


FIG LOAF CAKE No. 2 


To two cups of sugar add a generous half cup of butter, 
one of milk, four (scant) of flour (in which two teaspoons 
of baking-powder have been sifted) and four eggs. Flour 
two cups chopped figs and add to batter just before placing 
in pans to bake. 


LITTLE FIG CAKES 


Beat together five eggs. Add to this a pinch of salt, a 
cup each of sugar and chopped nuts, and a half cupof raisins, 
the juice of one lemon and a pinch of nutmeg, one cup of 
bread-crumbs in which has been well mixed a rounded 
teaspoon of baking-powder, and one-half pound figs chopped 
fine. Bake in one rather thin sheet and when the cake is 
cold cut in small squares. This may be iced with a plain 
boiled icing (see Introductory Recipes) into which has 
been stirred one cup of chopped figs and nuts. 


264 FRUIT RECIPES 


FIG LAYER CAKE 


Use any of the plain foundation cake batters (see Intro- 
ductory Recipes) and bake in layers. For filling use the 
real fig jelly, or the filling given next below or “‘Fig Snow.” 


FIG FILLING OR JELLY FOR CAKE 


Chop or shred one pound of figs and boil until tender in 
one coffee-cupful of water, in double boiler. Add one and 
one-half cups of sugar and one teaspoon of vanilla. Boil 
down until smooth and thick. Spread while warm. 


FIG SNOW FOR FILLING 


Mix fig pulp (fresh or steamed, or stewed) with whipped 
cream or meringue as for banana filling for Banana Layer 
Cake. 

FIG PUDDING OR PIE (Very Simple) 


Cut fine one-half pound fresh or dried figs and simmer 
half an hour in three-fourths pint of water, a dessert- 
spoonful of sugar being added when nearly done. Re- 
move and cool, when add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. 
Place in a pudding or pie dish and bake in moderate oven 
until the yolks are set sufficiently, then place on top a 
meringue made of the whites of the eggs and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Let this brown and remove to cool. 


FIG SUET PUDDING (An English Recipe) 


Chop fine six ounces of suet in three-fourths pound of 
flour, adding a well-beaten egg, three-fourths cup of sugar, 
and sufficient milk to form a smooth dough. Roll out 
_ half an inch thick and sprinkle on it one pound fine-chopped 
figs. Roll this up and tie in a pudding cloth, place in boil- 
ing water, and boilfor two hours. (A little nutmeg may be 
used for flavouring.) 


THE FIG 265 


FIG BREAD PUDDING 


Soak three cups of breadcrumbs in one and one-fourth 
pints of water and beat into this four eggs, a pinch of salt, 
two tablespoons of sugar,and one and one-third cups of 
chopped figs. (The figs should be first dredged in flour.) 
Flavour with lemon or nutmeg. Beat well, then place in 
pudding-dish and bake slowly for an hour and a half, 
or place pudding in tight-covered vessel which is to be 
placed in a pot of boiling water and kept at a boil for two 
and a half hours. Serve with hard sauce. 


FIG BLANC MANGE 


Make as for Banana Blanc Mange; using one cup of fig 
pulp and one cup of chopped nuts and a little lemon tinc- 
ture. Prepare a sauce with the yolk of the egg beaten 
with a tablespoon of sugar and stirred in with a pint of 
boiling milk. Add one teaspoon of cornstarch, wet with 
a little water, and remove from the fire. Nutmeg may be 
added or a dash of lemon extract. Serve cold. 


FIG ICE-CREAM 


For two quarts of fig ice-cream mix one quart of cream 
with two cups of sugar and freeze partially. Then add 
to the mixture two cups of fig marmalade, the juice of oné 
lemon with one teaspoonful of lemon extract, and the 
whites of four eggs with which has been whipped a pinch 
of salt, and finish freezing. 


FIG ICE-CREAM No. 2 


Stir together one pint of cream, one pint of new milk, 
and three-fourths cup of sugar. Place on stove and bring 
to a boil. In a separate vessel should have been stewed 
one cup of chopped dried figs or two cups of fresh fruit in 


266 FRUIT RECIPES 


one-half cup of water. Add to the hot milk and let cool. 
Then freeze, adding at the last moment either pineapple 
or lemon extract and the juice of half a lemon. This will 
make nearly two quarts. 


FIG ICE 


Peel two quarts of fresh figs and stir well with the juice 
of one lemon and its grated peel, or one teaspoon lemon 
extract, some fruit acid and two cups of sugar. Add two 
cups of water and freeze. 

FIG CANDY 

Boil over a slow fire one pound of sugar and a half pint 
of water until the syrup hardens when dropped into cold 
water. Add half a teaspoon of vinegar and remove from 
the fire, stirring once or twice before pouring over a layer 
of figs placed in deep dish. Dried figs may be used either 
previously soaked an hour in cold water, or those perfectly 
dry. They are more apt to give good results.than the 
fresh figs. 


CANDIED OR CRYSTALLISED FIGS 


Proceed as in third method for drying until the syrup- 
dipping stage is reached. At this point, on removing 
them from the boiling syrup drain and sprinkle thickly 
with granulated sugar, then place on thin wooden slabs 
or “hurdles” of galvanised iron and dry very slowly in 
fruit-dryer or slow oven, turning the figs frequently. 
When thoroughly dried and sugared these may be packed 
in layers, with oil paper between and kept in a dry place. 

Or proceed as for candied cherries, dipping first in brine 
instead of lye. 


FIG JAM 


If dried steam first till very soft. If fresh and ripe 
place them in a double-boiler, heating through perfectly 


THE FIG 267 


but adding “no water. They may be steamed instead. 
Add about one-half their weight then of sugar and cook 
down carefully till thick. Lemon juice and peel, pine- 
apple or other decided fruit may be added for flavouring. 
This if preferred may be rubbed through a coarse sieve 
and heated again before sealing in little pots or jars. 


FIG. JELLY 


Slice the figs into the preserving kettle, covering bottom 
of kettle with cold water. Add slicesof unpeeled lemon, one 
lemon to one and a half pints of uncooked figs. Place on 
back of stove to cook slowly an hour, when strain and 
boil for fifteen or twenty minutes (according to the state 
of the syrup or the weather), adding three-fourths quan- 
tity of sugar to that of the fruit. 


PRESERVED FIGS 


Heat figs through thoroughly in a steamer, double- 
boiler or slow oven without water, then drop them into a 
heavy, boiling syrup; remove and let stand in it over 
night. In the morning bring to a boil, remove; let stand till 
cold; re-heat; drain; pack figs close together in. jars; cook 
down the syrup and pour over the fruit. Figs may be pre- 
served in lemon syrup, in grape juice, or other tart fruit 
juices or have added to them lemon peel and juice or lemon 
and ginger root. See also Preserved Cherries. Dried figs 
may be steamed and then so preserved or by simpler pro- 
cess. Many people hold that preserved fresh figs must 
first be dipped in boiling lye, repeating several times, 
a minute at a time. 


PICKLED FIGS 


Pick figs which are barely ripe, though fully swollen out, 
and leave stems on the fruit. Place in a jar of fairly strong 


268 FRUIT RECIPES 


brine and let stand over night when rinse well in fresh 
cold water, drain, pack close together in jars, and pour 
over them hot spiced vinegar (sweetened if liked) as for 
apples, cherries, grapes, etc. 


CAKES OF FIGS 


Cook ripe, peeled figs slowly in double boiler with a 
little sugar and flavouring (if liked), till smooth and thick. 
Almonds may be added while cooking. Pour into shallow 
moulds or pans and dry slowly in sun, oven, or dryer, when 
perfectly dry cutting in squares or strips and wrapping in 
oiled paper or storing in dry place. These may be used for 
cookery as are the commercial figs. 


TO DRY FIGS 


There are several methods in vogue for this, a California 
treatment of them (Dr. Eisen’s) reported by the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture (Div. of Pomol., Bul. No. 1) being 
the following: ‘‘When the figs began to wilt and show 
small white seams they were cut from the tree by means of 
scissors or a knife, then carefully placed on trays similar to 
raisin trays. (An improvement is here suggested of nailing 
laths to form longitudinal ribs across the tray-bottoms.) 
By placing the figs with the eye elevated on the rib the 
sugary contents are prevented from leaking out. . . . The 
figs are now placed in the sun to dry turned every day, at 
first separately by hand, but when partially dried were 
turned .. . as we turn raisin trays. Every night they were 
covered over. . . . The figs are sufficiently dry when they 
show the same dryness in the morning as the evening. . . . 
If not sufficiently dried they will puff up and spoil. It is, 
however, a great danger to overdry the figs. Such figs 
will get a cooked and earthy taste. . . . It took from five 
to twelve days to dry the figs, according to the weather. 


THE FIG 269 


When dry they may be dumped into sweat boxes for a few 
days but the better way is to dip and pack them right 
away. Now prepare a kettle or tub with boiling water, 
in which is put enough common unrefined rock salt, such 
as is used for cattle; table salt will not do. . . . Sea water 
may be preferable. . . . About three big handfuls of rock 
salt to one gallon of water is enough. When the salt is dis- 
solved and the water is again boiling immerse the figs for 
two seconds; immediately afterwards thumb the figs, and 
work the eye of the fig downward and the stalk end up- 
ward. . . . This process is necessary. First, it dis- 
tributes the thicker skin around the eye of the fig evenly, 
and in eating we thus get equal parts of the thicker 

and thinner skin. Secondly, it places the 
fine skin of the stalk end on top, and when the figs 
are packed and pressed they present a beautiful smooth 
surface. I believe the dipping of the figs in boiling salt 
water may be dispensed with if the figs are sufficiently 
pliable without it. But it is absolutely indispensable to 
dip the figs in salt water, and during the thumbing of the 
figs the hands of the packer must be constantly moistened 
by salt water or the sugar will stick to the fingers and make 
the operation almost impossible. . . . The figs taste at first 
exceedingly salt . . . but after a few days the salt works 
into the fig and gives it a peculiar appetising taste, 
counteracting the excessive sweetness. 

“The heavy pressing of the figs, which is always so 
strong that it causes them to burst at the stalk end is much 
objected to by the consumer, as it evidently defaces the 
fig. But, nevertheless, this compression is absolutely 
necessary. It prevents insects from entering between them 
and it prevents the air entering, thus drying out the 
fig . . .” 

A second California method reported (Mr. Burnham, . 


270 FRUIT RECIPES 


of Riverside) was to pick the figs when wilted and while 
yet green to treat it to ‘‘a strong sulphur bath,” then put- 
ting in the sun to dry, after this sweating it in sacks, then 
packing. 

A Florida method ‘‘H. R.”’ (Farmer and Fruit Grower) 
is to gather the figs when fully ripe but before they crack 
open. The fruit should be placed “in a wire basket and 
dip it into a deep kettle of hot lye made from wood ashes. 
Let it remain in the lye a minute or two to remove the gum 
and milk and until the figs begin to shrivel slightly. Let 
all the lye drip off the figs, place them in a kettle or vat of 
boiling syrup, and let them remain in it three or four 
minutes. Then dip them out with a skimmer, let the 
syrup run off entirely and place the fruit at once in a dryer 
or evaporator. When sufficiently dry let them become 
perfectly cool and pack very close in drums or boxes, 
pressing the fruit down compactly with a small lever.” 

Figs form their own sugar in packing but spices may be 
placed between the layers, or the Southern sweet bay, if 
time and fancy so dictate. 

A simpler method is to pick when ripe and dry on trays 
in the sun, turning every day and pressing flat with the 
hand. Pack in layers and keep in a dry place. 


CHAPTER XXII 


THE DATE—THE COCOANUT 


Phenix Dactilifera Cocos—Nuctfera—Phenicacee 


: HE date, whether fruit or tree, instinctively brings 

to mind the islands of the desert: the cocoanut 
those of the tropical seas. Differing thus widely as to 
natural habitat and as to type of fruit there are neverthe- 
less necessarily striking points of resemblance and similar- 
ity of general products presented by these two stately, 
graceful members of the Palm Family, and by the increase 
and scattering of the human family they have become more 
closely associated as to places of growth. The general 
contour of the trees and bunching of the fruit in the bushy 
tops are the same; the fibre of the leaf-stems of both is used 
in the manufacture of cordage, the leaves themselves 
for mats, baskets, and innumerable other products; 
the wood for local building purposes or imported for 
making up into highly polished furniture or choice 
woodwork. 

Both these palms yield quantities of sap, known as 
“‘toddy,” and it is a common, yearly practice to tap them. 
The toddy, unfermented, is much liked as a drink 
and when in this condition and boiled down the 
syrup called ‘‘jaggery’’ is obtained, which in turn yields 
another product: sugar; about one pound resulting from 
four of the syrup, it is estimated. Fermented, the sap 
becomes palm wine or is distilled into arrack. The heart 

271 


272 FRUIT RECIPES 


or terminal bud of these palms, called the “cabbage,” is 
sweet, tender, and nutty, but it istoo luxurious an article 
of diet to be often indulged in, as its removal causes the 
death of the tree. The ends of the leaf-stalks, however, are 
almost identical in texture and flavour and are used as a 
vegetable. 

With these points of similarity the general resemblance 
in appearance and food values of the trees ceases for the 
fruits borne by them are totally unlike in form and kind of 
nutriment. The date’s distinctive and preponderating 
element is sugar; that of the cocoanut, oil. The small 
proportion of fat contained in the date is chiefly in its 
stones or pits which are sometimes roasted and ground for 
use as a substitute for coffee and sometimes ground un- 
roasted to secure the oil contained in them. The cake or 
paste remaining from the latter process is given to camels 
as food, as are also types of imperfect dates. The dates 
themselves,when compressed in preparing them into dried 
cakes for future use, give out a syrup whichisused in cookery 
like molasses, and the crushed fruit may be fermented for 
date wine. So concentrated has nature made the food 
value of the date, so powerful and readily carried a store- 
house of energy, that in some countries the killing of a 
date-palm is a criminal offence. It is true that dates 
contain a very small per cent. of protein but their sugar is 
in so pure and simple a form that they are readily digested 
and when eaten with nuts to furnish the nitrogen and fat 
the combination is an almost perfect food. 

More than one variety of date bears fruit. The wild 
date of India, Phenix sylvestris, is famed for its sugar 
production as well as for its fruit. On the whole this fruit- 
bearing palm is not as sensitive to cold asis the cocoanut 
and grows luxuriantly in parts of Spainand Italy. It 
begins to bear from about ten years old upward indefinitely, 


DATE—COCOANUT 273 


age seeming no hindrance. Some of the Italian date trees 
prove their longevity for it was over one thousand years 
ago that those of Bordighera were planted by the monks. 

Cocoanuts, like dates, contain only a small per cent. of 
nitrogen, but, unlike that other palm fruit, provide one of 
the most delightful forms of oil and in as generous quantity 
as the date gives sugar. According to the tradition of 
colder climes the cocoanut is indigestible, but in the balmy 
countries where the cocoa-palm flourishes one does not 
hear of this, chiefly because its fruit is there eaten in proper 
condition: when at the right stages to be offered human 
stomachs. The white ‘“nut’’-lining is soft enough 
at first (when half ‘‘ripe’’), to be eaten with a spoon, and 
the milk is not thick and white but clear, somewhat, sweet, 
and most refreshing up to perfect maturity. It is said 
there is nothing more easily digested, assimilated and 
fattening than fresh cocoanut milk, and it is recommended 
to invalids to be as freely indulged in as possible: perhaps 
the juice of six cocoanuts a day to begin with, as a restora- 
tive. (Fresh cocoanut oil is sometimes prescribed as a 
substitute for cod liver oil.) There are people whose en- 
thusiasm over it goes’so far asto claim the probability of 
cocoanut milk being that fountain of youth so ardently 
sought and so persistently concealed since time itself was 
young. But, as with many other fruits, the cocoanut is 
gathered before maturity for shipment and even where cold 
does not affect it on the long journey it is impossible but 
that it should be the reverse of improved on reaching its 
destination. However, one may get something of the 
flavour of both milk and meat in the northlands and need 
not shun them if one uses the cocoanut from the shell and 
so gets it unadulterated, and uses always sufficient of all 
kinds of fruit to keep one’s digestive apparatus in good 
condition. 


274 FRUIT RECIPES 


RECIPES FOR DATES AND COCOANUT 


DATE SANDWICHES 


Stone and chop dates until soft enough to spread between 
thin slices of buttered bread. If good butter and whole- 
some white or brown bread are used one has a most satis- 
fying luncheon, containing all the requirements of fat, 
sugar, nitrogen, etc. One may substitute fine-chopped 
nuts for the butter, for variety, if one wishes. 


DATE GEMS 


To half a cup of stoned, chopped dates add the well- 
beaten yolk of one egg, a pinch of salt, half a pint of sweet 
milk, two scant cups of flour in which two teaspoons of 
baking-powder have been sifted, adding a tablespoon 
of oil or butter before beating in the whipped white of the 
egg. Bake for twenty minutes rather briskly. 


DATE FRUIT BREAD 


Make as for Bread for Fruit Toast (Introductory Recipes), 
_and for each loaf allow and work in nearly a pint of chopped, 
stoned dates. 


DATES WITH BREAKFAST FOOD 


With any cooked breakfast food stir in a cup or more 
of stoned, chopped dates a few minutes before removing 
from the fire. Or, they may be added to any uncooked, 
flaked food with delicious effect. 


STEWED DATES 


Wash and cover a pound of dates with one pint of water 
and let stand over night. In the morning place on the 
stove and let them come to a boil. Let them simmer gently 


Suyimiy oy} Jo 0844s ysiy OUT 


VICNI WTVd aLvad WIvd 
JO WIVd &LVG GTIM V dO LaVadH AHL NI dn a@LVd dHL dO WOOTE 


SLONVOOOD DNIHAHLVD 


peaoulelon ysny 
Cuury) ‘e4efanu sov07 suyeg yNUODO_ z9yNo YILA syNUOD0D pure ULOOTG JNUBODOD 


DATE—COCOANUT 275 


for a few minutes, adding a few drops of lemon or lime or 
orange juice, then remove the fruit, add a little sugar to 
the water left in the cooking-vessel, and simmer until the 
syrup is thickened. Pour this over the fruit and serve 
when cold. 


DATE JAM 


Jam may be made from dates by cooking in the pro- 
portion of one pound of stoned fruit to one cup of water 
and a half-pound of sugar—the sugar to be added after 
the fruit has simmered about eight minutes. Add with 
the sugar a teaspoonful of butter and spice, or lemon 
juice, or other flavouring as one chooses. Cook down 
until smooth and thick and place in jars. 


DATE FLUFF-DUFF 


Stew one cupful of dates, stoned, until tender, then put 
through a colander and mix with one cup of sugar in which 
has been sifted a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Beat 
thoroughly the whites of five eggs with a pinch of salt and 
when perfectly stiff add the yolks of two and whip again. 
Now mix lightly, a little at a time, with the dates and 
sugar and place in a buttered baking-dish. Sprinkle over 
the top one-half cup of fine-chopped nuts and bake for 
fifteen minutes. Serve this with cream, plain or whipped. 


DATE FOAM 


Make an orange or lemon gelatine jelly. (With a plain 
gelatine it is best to follow directions given by the manufac- 
turers of the particular brand one uses, as they know best 
the strength of their gelatine, using, however, in a warm 
climate one cup less of water than that recommended). 
With this as a foundation, when the gelatine begins to 
‘harden slightly on being removed from the stove and 


N 


276 FRUIT RECIPES 


whipped in process of cooling, add the well-beaten whites 
of two eggs and one cup of stoned, chopped dates. Place 
in a mould and set on ice to chill. 


DATE PIE 


For two pies use a pound of‘dates. Wash them and 
place in a crock with a quart of milk to heat slowly. When 
soft stone them and crush or put through colander. Add 
an egg or a tablespoon of dissolved cornstarch to thicken, 
then place in a baked pastry shell. Whipped cream or a 
meringue may be used with this or thin lattice strips of 
paste laced over it. 


A 


DATE LAYER CAKE 


Use the ‘‘One, Two, Three, Four”’ recipe (see Introduc- 
tory Recipes) and bake in layers. Ice with a plain, boiled 
icing (see Introductory Recipes) in which, as it cools, 
should be stirred one cup of stoned, chopped dates. 


.DATE LOAF,CAKE 


Make the cake as above, using, however, an additional 
cup of flour and a second heaping teaspoon of baking pow- 
der. Add one grated nutmeg, the grated rind of one 
lemon, and one pound of dates, stoned, cut fine, and dredged 
with flour. Bake in a moderate oven one hour or more. 


DATE MACAROONS 


Beat the whites of three eggs stiff, then add gradually 
a half pound of powdered sugar (a dessertspoonful of 
cornstarch sifted through the sugar); one-half cup of fine- 
chopped nuts and one of dates, and the rind of an orange 
grated. Work well together gently, adding enough grated 
cocoanut to make stiff enough to form into balls. Very 


DATE—COCOANUT 277 


little cocoanut will be required, so it is best to add but a 
tablespoonful first and bake a ‘‘try-cake”’ as a test. 


STUFFED DATES 


These are not necessarily for mere sweetmeats as there 
is in them a great amount of condensed nourishment, 
though they make a most ‘dainty dish to set before a 
king.” 

Select the largest dates and pinch out the stones. 
Fill space with nuts or a plain cream-candy filling made 
by working in with the whipped white of an egg as much 
powdered or confectioners’ sugar as it will stand. This 
should be flavoured with lemon juice or some other de- 
cided flavour. (Or, see Introductory Recipes.) 


DATE FUDGE 


To two cups of granulated sugar add two-thirds of a cup 
of sweet milk and one-third cup butter. Add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla when the syrup has begun to simmer, 
Stir this until just after the vanilla has been added, then 
let cook for twenty-five minutes without stirring, watch- 
ing carefully, however, that it does not burn. When a 
light brown in colour pour out on plates on which are spread 
chopped or halved dates and let cool. 


DATE ICE 


Make a lemonade or orangeade and to each quart of liquid 
add one pound of stoned, chopped dates and a half cupful 
of fine chopped nuts. A little lemon extract may be 
added. Freeze. 


DATE ICE-CREAM 


Make the usual foundation ice-cream, adding to it 
for each quart a cupful or more of shredded dates, then 
freeze. (Flavour as liked.) 


278 FRUIT RECIPES 


COCOANUT AND DATE SALAD 


The fresh cocoanut, cut in cubes, mixed with stoned, 
halved dates, served on crisp, tender lettuce or young cab- 
bage leaves, makes a pretty and delicious salad. Mayon- 
naise or a cooked dressing in which lemon juice takes the 
place of vinegar, gives proper piquancy. 


COCOANUT MILK FOR COOKERY 


Cocoanut milk may be used in any way that cow’s milk 
is used: for soups, stews, and dainty desserts. The milk 
may still be used after the shell is brown and hard through— 
the proper stage is when the shell is tender enough to be 
cut into with a sharp, stiff, slender knife. To get all the 
milk at the more advanced stages the white meat should be 
grated, and boiling water poured over it in proportion of 
one scant quart to each large cocoanut. Stir this for 
some minutes, then strain through a cotton cloth, squeezing 
the cocoanut well. Let this liquid cool and it will be found 
that the fat rises as does cream and may be used as cream, 
butter, or oil. The fibre remaining may again be treated 
with boiling water but its quality will not be as rich. 


COCOANUT SOUP (Old Recipe) 


Scald and scrape (but do not skin) two sets of calves’ 
feet (eight) and place in a soup-kettle with the thin-pared 
tind of a lemon and six blades of mace. Pour over this 
one gallon of cold water and let heat gradually, skimming, 
simmering till the calves’ feet are thoroughly shredded by 
the long gentle cooking, when strain and set away to harden. 
Remove the fat from it and replace on the stove with a 
fine-scraped fresh cocoanut (at least a half-pound of cocoa- 
nut meat) and a pint or more of undiluted cocoanut milk 
or cream. (Butter and a little corn or rice flour may be 


DATE—COCOANUT 279 


substituted with milk for the cocoanut juice.) Add half 
a nutmeg grated; boil fifteen minutes, skimming, then 
serve with small French rolls or milk biscuit. Sugar may 
be passed with this. 


COCOANUT CURRY 


In India cocoanut is very much used in curries. For a 
vegetable curry melt two tablespocns of butter in a sauce- 
pan (or use cookng oil); slice into this one onion and let it 
cook for a few moments. Now add one tablespoonful of 
curry powder mixed with a half pint of cocoanut milk and 
a scant teaspoon of salt, and let simmer for five minutes. 
The vegetables should have been prepared beforehand, 
cooked separately: (cut in small bits): two carrots; two 
medium-sized Irish potatoes; one-half pint of green peas, 
and one-half pint of grated cocoanut. Place these in the 
curry and let simmer for about five minutes, when it is 
ready to serve. 


COCOANUT OMELET 


Beat together the whites of three eggs with a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and dash of tabasco. When well whipped 
add the yolks and one cup of grated cocoanut with a half 
cup of cocoanut milk. Cook carefully for three minutes 
in a well-buttered saucepan where there is moderate heat, 
slipping a knife under the omelet once or twice to prevent 
burning. When partially brown set in the oven to finish 
cooking, a good final test being that of no particle sticking 
to a knife thrust into the centre. 


COCOANUT INDIAN FRITTERS 


Place in a bowl three tablespoons of flour and scald with 
sufficient scalding cocoanut milk to make a smooth, stiff 
paste. Let it cool, then add to it the beaten yolks 


280 FRUIT RECIPES 


of four eggs, and the whites of two, with a cup or 
more (as desired) of fresh, shredded cocoanut. Work this 
up well together then drop by dessertspoonfuls into boiling 
fat or oil and fry to a golden brown. 


COCOANUT TOAST 


Toast to a medium brown some slices of rusk and pour 
over them fresh cocoanut milk, slightly thickened; adding 
at the last shredded, tender cocoanut—fresh gathered. 
Serve hot with a dash of nutmeg over the whole. 


COCOANUT AND ORANGE FLOWERS 


When at its first creamy (‘‘spoon’’) stage serve the 
cocoanut from the shell, in convenient pieces, or scraped 
on to a serving-dish, and sprinkled with the fresh or candied 
pétals of orange-flowers. The preserved orange flowers 
may be used with this, also. Cream, sugar, a meringue, or 
wine may be served with it. 


SHERRIED COCOANUT 


Grate a fresh cocoanut and drop into a thick syrup made 
of four cups of sugar to two of water, and cook gently for 
forty minutes. When done remove from the fire and 
immediately stir in the beaten yolks of threeeggs. These 
should thicken a little with the beating and heat. Add 
a wineglassful of sherry, whip well and cool. (The eggs 
may be stirred in while still on stove but should never be 
allowed to boil.) 

COCOANUT CUPS 

Gently stew a sliced cocoanut in the cocoanut milk for 
an hour, or tintil tender, then add juice and grated rind of 
one lemnon or orange, a half-cup of sugar, and the beaten 
yolks of four eggs. Let thicken slightly, then pour into 


DATE—COCOANUT 281 


custard cups and bake fifteen minutes, Place on top the 
whipped whites of the eggs (with one-half cup of sugar) 
and brown lightly. Remove, cool, and serve. 


PASTEL DE COCO 


To the grated meat of one cocoanut take its weight in 
granulated sugar and one cup of water. Cook until a 
moderately thick syrup has been formed, additg as it cooks 
a small cupful of fruit-juice—preferably pineapple. Cook 
this ten minutes at least, then add the beaten yolks of four 
eggs, a half-teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and cinnamon 
mixed, and a half wineglass of wine. Cook very slowly 
until it thickens evenly (stirring all the while), then 
spread on a flat dish and let cool before serving. When 
partially cool sprinkle on this half a cup of grated cocoanut. 


COCOANUT CAKES 


Mix together one-half pound of flour; one-fourth pound 
each of butter and sugar, and two eggs. Add a small cup 
of milk (of the cocoanut, if possible) and one teaspoonful 
of baking-powder. When well mixed add grated or des- 
iccated cocoanut, a cupful or more as desired, then bake 
in small buttered tins in a moderately quick oven. 


COCOANUT MACAROONS 


Whip stiff the whites of three eggs and add a cup of 
powdered sugar, beating till very light. Flavour with 
almond or vanilla and add half a pound of desiccated 
cocoanut, then mix and drop on buttered paper or tins. 
If fresh cocoanut is used take half a pound of sugar and as 
much cocoanut as required for ‘‘body.” 


COCOANUT DROPS 


Grate one cocoanut and weigh, adding half its weight 
in sugar. Mix this with a stiff-whipped white of egg and 


282 FRUIT RECIPES 


drop on buttered paper. Bake fifteen minutes in rather 
a quick oven. 
COCOANUT CREAM CANDY 


Grate one cocoanut and set aside. Boil one and a half 
pounds of sugar with the milk of the cocoanut, heating 
very slowly till sugar is melted. Boil then for five or six 
minutes gently; add the grated cocoanut and boil ten min- 
utes longer. Stir continually. Pour on buttered plates 
and give forty-eight hours as time for hardening. 


COCOANUT MOUSSE (Frozen) 


Have ready one cup of fresh, pounded cocoanut and add 
to it a pint of the richest cocoanut ‘“‘cream’’ and milk, or 
half a pint of cocoanut milk and a half pint of whipped 
cream (from cow’s milk). Add three-fourths cup of sugar 
and a tiny pinch of salt, then stir in a small tablespoon of 
gelatine which has been dissolved in two tablespoons of 
water and strained. Freeze. (For one quart.) 


* 


The cocoanut, particularly the fresh-picked fruit, lends 
itself or its milk to almost. every form of frozen dainty, 
making most attractive ices, ice-creams, etc., and in many 
forms supposedly adapted only to other (more strictly) 
fruit it is delightful as foundation or accessory. 

The palm-cabbage, or the stalk-ends, may be used, un- 
cooked, in salads, or delicately cooked (like cauliflower), 
or pickled. 


CHAPTER XXIII 


THE JAPANESE PERSIMMON (Diospyrus 
Kaki, Diospyrace@) 


HIS, the national fruit of Japan, is a giant compared 
with the persimmon of the North American woods 
as regards the size of its fruit; the tree is a comparative 
dwarf but makes up in beauty, symmetry, and convenience 
of size what it lacks in height. It does not need the frost 
to sweeten its fruit but neither does the frost-touch prove 
harmful as to other semi-tropical fruits. There is as end- 
less an array of varietv in this persimmon as the apple can 
present and it is used by the Japanese in as many different 
ways and as constantly. The Japan persimmon varies 
so in size, flavour, and shape, from the size of a base-ball to 
that of the largest orange; from those somewhat tasteless 
and dry to a ravishingly delicious and juicy type; and 
from the rounding, through all degrees, to the extremely 
elongated—that one can but generalise in dealing with it. 
It seems a great pity that it is not better known and ap- 
preciated in Northern markets, as it ships well, grows so 
readily and in such abundance that it is not the expensive 
fruit many of the semi-tropical products prove to be, and 
yet is one of the richest of fruits in food value. It can 
best perhaps be compared with the banana as to its type 
of riches and its practicability as ‘‘a whole meal’”’ in itself. 
It has wealth of carbohydrates, also fat and protein, (with 
more sugar however), and its energy-producing power is 
about the same as the forceful banana. 
It is susceptible of much more variation than is realised 
283 


284 FRUIT RECIPES 


yet in even Florida and California, and its prodigal abun- 
dance might be indulged in not only more freely, with better 
results because of its substance, but farther north than it 
has yet been grown or shipped. It should be mentioned, 
however, that only the “‘chocolate’’ or dark-meated vari- 
eties, of which there are a number, should be used in 
cookery. Even where the others are perfectly ripe the 
chemical action of the heat brings out the astringent quality 
so actively that it is impossible to eat the results. The 
chocolate varieties may be used without any danger of the 
development of unpleasant qualities. The thoroughly 
ripe Northern persimmon in its sweet, sugary state, may 
be also used with great success with most of the recipes or 
suggestions given for the Japanese. 


RECIPES 


TO SERVE OR COMBINE THE UNCOOKED 
PERSIMMON 


In serving the uncooked Kaki send it to the table with 
sharp-pointed spoons with which both to pierce quickly 
the thin skin and eat the pulp. Or it may be peeled care- 
fully, the pulp removed and mixed lightly with orange 
juice and sugar or with whipped cream—this, before serving. 
Tapioca and sago, or gelatine already cooked, may be added 
with the whipped white of an egg for a dessert, but in such 
case the puddings should be made rather thick and partially 
cooled before pouring over the persimmon, in order that the 
latter may not become too juicy with the warmth and 
make the dessert watery. Frozen persimmons are very 
delicious—peeled and frozen whole with sugar and orange 
juice, or mashed with syrup and lemon juice as an ice, or 
added at the last moment to plain ice-cream. 


JAPANESE PERSIMMON 285 


PERSIMMON (Cooked Pudding) 


This pudding may be made by using to a quart of per- 
simmon pulp two eggs, a pint of milk, a cupful of sugar, 
a heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, wet in part of the milk, 
and a heaping teaspoon of baking-powder. Where orange 
juice is desired as flavouring substitute a small spoonful 
of soda for the baking-powder. Bake in pudding-dish 
slowly for an hour and serve, while still warm, with cold 
milk or cream, though persimmons are too rich almost of 
themselves to be served with cream. 


MARMALADE AND JELLY 


The marmalade (from the dark, non-astringent fruit) should 
be cooked in double-boiler with no water. Add instead, 
a little orange juice (about half a pint to two quarts of 
pulp), and when cooked down thick stir in three-fourths 
the quantity of sugar (heated) that there is pulp, and cook 
till stiff as one’s taste indicates. Jelly may also be made 
with orange juice and orange-pulp added, or the pulp of 
pie-melon, half melon and half persimmon; but, while the 
jelly is pretty and delicate it has not much individuality 
and can scarcely be said to pay for the trouble. The per- 
simmon makes excellent vinegar, beer, and wine and may 
be preserved, dried, somewhat after the manner of figs. 


TO CURE OR DRY PERSIMMONS 


One of the U. S. Government Reports (Fla. Bul. No. 71) 
gives the following quotation from Professor Kizo Tamari 
(of the Agricultural College, Imperial University, Tokio) 
as to the Japanese methods of curing the persimmon: “I 
will tell you how to cure the austere varieties so as to make 
them edible or change them into sweet ones in the following 
ways: 


286 FRUIT RECIPES 


“First Method—When fairly ripened pick the fruit from 
the trees, peel off the skin and hang them by threads at- 
tached to the stems in a room for two or three weeks. They 
will then turn brown or black and become soft. You will 
say that they are the most delicious fruits in the world and 
dried still further, they will become just like dried figs, or 
better than figs. Further, pack them in a box in alternate 
layers with cut rice straw and keep them for a month. 
Black ones then become covered with a white powder (not 
mouldy). They then become very sweet, though the 
sweetness may not be retained through the next summer. 

‘Second Method—Harvesting time being the same as 
above, the fruits are packed into an empty wine cask (in . 
Japan Sake casks, Japanese rice-wine). This should still 
be full of alcoholic flavour, or if the flavour be weak, the 
cask should be sprinkled with wine or brandy or any other 
spirit. Sherry wine somewhat resembles our Sake. 
Sprinkle the fruits very lightly with wine and keep covered 
air-tight for a week or two according to the temperature 
and the degree of austereness of the fruit. At the end of 
the time they become sweet. 

“Other Methods—The process of sweetening is not merely 
limited to the above methods, but the fruit may be treated 
in several other ways; for instance, put new rice straws 
and dried haulms of sweet potato in about equal proportion 
in a vat, filling it about one-fifth full. To this add a little 
wood ashes and pour warm water over them. Stir up the 
straw so as to get it thoroughly wet. When the water is 
tepid, put in fruit to fill it one-quarter to one-third full and ; 
stir up to wet the fruit and imbed it in the straw. Cover 
the vat for five or seven days, after which time the fruit will 
be fit to eat. The fruits thus cured are not as sweet as 
by the Sake cask process,” 


yp0js PIM WoW UMOI P OZIS 0} SB ULOLIOUrY pue osoueder U98MzEq 
aouaIaYIp MON “volIeuLy Jo UOWIUISIed ULoyZJOu 


‘NOWNISHAd SVN'TAG PIA [pews ay3 WQIM ‘suouIUIsIed Ueder [eoyUOD pue eT 


SVAVOD UVad AGNV WiddV (vfindid v1.09) MVdVd TVOICOUL 


CHAPTER XXIV 
THE GUAVA (Psidium, Nat. Ord. Myrtacee) 


HE Guava, a fruit of peculiarly aromatic odour, and 
one of the most attractive members of the Myrtle 
Family, is best known to botanists and cooks through 
its “pear” and “apple” varieties (Psidium pyriferum 
and P. pomiferum), varieties of the common guava 
(P. Guajava), and, in lesser degree, the red Cattley (P. 
Cattleyanum) and the Chinese guava, or “‘ yellow Cattley”’ 
(P. Chinense). It is interesting to know that this all- 
around fruit, as useful and practicable in cookery in the 
more southern countries as is the apple in colder climates, 
is considered as without doubt American in origin, for 
although China has its yellow Cattley, it is supposed to 
have been carried there at a very early date from Brazil. 
The red or purple Cattley, sometimes called in California 
the ‘‘strawberry”’ guava, and the yellow Cattley are partic- 
ularly to be desired for jelly making. (‘Strawberry”’ 
is a name also familiarly applied to a small pink variety of 
the common guava.) The thick-fleshed pear and apple 
types (taking their names greatly from their forms) are 
large and have few seeds comparatively, so that there is 
less waste, and from the tone of their flavours may be used 
more as are vegetables in general culinary work. Almost 
any recipe suitable for peaches (the flesh of the guava 
being similarly delicate) or for apples may be applied to 
the guava. 


287 


288 FRUIT RECIPES 


RECIPES 


« TO SERVE THE GUAVA UNCOOKED 


Peel the fruit, selecting if possible the nearly seedless 
varieties, and where the seeds are virtually nil slice across 
the fruit and serve with sugar and cream or a little wine 
and spice with sugar. Where the seeds form an objection- 
able centre, slice lengthwise or halve after peeling and scrape 
or scoop away the seeds from the inner side before serving. 
The scooped-out halves of the larger varieties may be 
filled with chopped nuts, cocoanut shredded, candied 
fruits, whipped cream or meringue, the Kaki and orange 
juice, and innumerable other variations for special 
oecasions. 

STEWED GUAVA 


Peel and proceed as above, then cover with cold water 
or sweet milk and simmer gently until tender. At this 
stage add sugar, or sugar and spice to taste, and serve when 
cool. 

GUAVA SAUCE 


This may be made with the cooked or fresh guavas. 
Peel and put through a coarse sieve or fruit crusher to 
remove the seeds. The pulp resulting—a smooth mass— 
may be mixed with sugar alone or with the addition of a 
little lime or lemon juice or spice. Serve as with apple- 
sauce. The white of an egg may be whipped stiff and added 


if liked. 
GUAVA SALADS 


Peel and slice as far outside the seed centre as possible, 
removing seeds remaining oninner side. It is advisable to 
use either the large pale-yellow pear guava, mild in flavour, 
or the vermilion-tinted red, tart fruit (the original apple 
guava). Serve on lettuce or tender cabbage-heart with 


THE GUAVA 289 


French dressing. Mayonnaise is, however, sometimes pre- 
ferred. As with other fruits variety almost without end 
may be made by adding celery or nuts, other fruits or 
delicate vegetables. 


GUAVA WITH MACARONI 


For this use only the very tart fruit. Peel and put pulp 
through sieve. In one pint of pulp rub smooth a 
teaspoon of flour with a teaspoon of butter, and salt and 
pepper to taste. (A little lemon juice will be necessary 
with the milder varieties.) Bring this to scalding point in 
double-boiler. Have ready plain boiled macaroni cut in 
inch lengths; drain and add the prepared guava. Place 
in baking-dish, sprinkle breadcrumbs and bits of butter 
on top, and bake in quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 


GUAVA FRITTERS 


Peel and slice thick the fruit (removing seeds). The 
lengthwise slices are best where seeds are prominent. Dip 
in fritter batter (see Introductory Recipes) and proceed 
as for other fruit fritters. 


GUAVA SHORTCAKE 
Make a sauce (as above), preferably with the uncooked 
fruit, and serve as for Strawberry Shortcake. (See also 
Introductory Recipes.) 
GUAVA COBBLER 
See Peach Cobbler. 


GUAVA BROWN BETTY 
Make as for Apple Brown Betty. (See ‘‘The Apple.”’) 


GUAVA DUMPLINGS 
See Apple and Lemon Dumplings. 


290 FRUIT RECIPES 


GUAVA ROLY POLY 
See Apple Roly Poly. 


GUAVA CUSTARD 


To the yolks of three whipped eggs add three cups guava 
pulp, one pint of milk, a little orange peel, two teaspoons 
cornstarch, a pinch of salt, and sugar to taste. Bake in 
cups or pastry shells, in pudding-dish unlined or cook in 
double-boiler with care (as with all custards) and pour into 
heated glass dish. 


OTHER DESSERTS 
‘ 


Guavas may be used with all of the foundation formulas 
given in Introductory Recipes and will be found very deli- 
cious with gelatine and other delicate concoctions as well 
as in tarts, etc. For all ices the guava is particularly satis- 
factory. For these the syrup may be used as. well as the 
preserved forms put through a sieve so that they may be 
had out of season as well as when the fresh, crushed fruit 
is at hand. 


GUAVA JELLY No. 1 


A good general rule in guava-jelly (more than with al- 
most any other fruit) is to avoid that which is ‘‘ dead ripe.”’ 
Never use the entire quantity of mature guavas. To 
make in small quantities is best and an excellent plan is to 
save the parings and seed centres for a day or two from 
fruit used for sauce or desserts. For Jelly No. 1 use half 
the quantity of ripe guavas and half those which are well 
filled out but not quite turned in colour: not thoroughly 
mature. If the whole fruit is used slice it, cover bottom 
of preserving kettle with cold water, and simmer till soft. 
Strain through jelly-bag (never squeeze); boil the juice 
rapidly twenty minutes with or without the juice of half 


POMEGRANATES 


THE SWEET SOP OR SUGAR APPLE 


THE SOUR SOP 


THE GUAVA 291 


a lemon added for each half-pint; add warm, granulated 
sugar, cup for cup with the juice, and let melt and boil. 
This should jell in about twenty-five minutes. 


GUAVA JELLY No. 2 


For this take the entire quantity of guavas well filled out 
but still quite under-ripe. Slice; place with cold water 
as above; simmer till cooked to pieces and strain. Foreach 
pint of thick juice which results place in another vessel a 
half-pound of sugar and a half pint of water. Make this 
into a syrup and when it has thickened somewhat add two 
pints of the syrup to each pint of the fruit juice. Cook. 
slowly till it jells. (See cen Melon in Jelly.) 


CATTLEY GUAVA JELLY — 


The Cattley may be used in its mature or immature 
stages, its general tartness precluding the necessity gener- 
ally of using lemon juice withit. Proceed otherwise as with 
any regular fruit jelly, using sugar pint for pint. 


GUAVA PASTE 


This is a heavy, pasty jelly much esteemed as a delicacy. 
Use for the unripe fruit three-fourths its weight in sugar. 
Cook the sugar in a separate vessel with water equal in 
quantity to the sugar, reducing to a heavy syrup. In 
another vessel cook the sliced, unpeeled ripe guavas with 
a little water till quite soft; then strain through coarse sieve 
and cook again slowly in double-boiler. When the mass 
is a thick paste add the boiling syrup to it and cook until it 
begins to candy when dropped in iced-water. Line tin 
boxes with white or oiled paper and fill with the paste. 
Serve for breakfast or for dessert, in latter case with 
accompaniment of Edam or fresh cream cheese. 


292 FRUIT RECIPES 


GUAVA MARMALADE 


Cook as for jelly, pressing through coarse sieve when soft. 
Cook up again with equal quantity of sugar, adding juice 
of one lemon to each pint of pulp. When thick place in 
jars. 

GUAVA PRESERVE 


Peel and halve ripe guavas, removing seeds with pointed 
spoon. For each pint of fruit add one pound of sugar and 
three-fourths pint of water. Cook together until the 
syrup candies slightly in cold water, then add fruit and 
cook till translucent. 


GUAVA SWEET PICKLE 


Make a syrup of three pounds of sugar to each quart of 
vinegar and six pounds of fruit, adding a teaspoon each of 
allspice, mace, cloves, and cinnamon. Simmer half an 
hour, skimming the while, then drop into it the whole fruit, 
peeled (ripe but very firm), and cook slowly until tender 
but not too soft. Remove fruit and cook syrup alone till 
thick, then pour, boiling hot, over the fruit, packed 
in jars for sealing. 


GUAVA CATSUP 


Slice ripe guavas and cover with cold water. Let sim- 
mer till soft, then rub through colander and coarse sieve 
(both). To each four quarts of guava allow four small 
tablespoons each of salt and ground mustard; one each 
of pepper, allspice, and celery seed (the latter in a small 
bag). Simmer slowly in a quart of strong vinegar 
for four hours. Stir carefully and frequently to pre- 
vent burning. This should cook down thick and smooth. 
Set aside at the end of four hours and let stand over night. 
When cool, if too thick add vinegar till of right consistency, 
then re-heat to boiling point and bottle while hot, sealing tight. 


THE GUAVA 293 


GUAVA CHUTNEY 


To five pounds of guavas, peeled and crushed free of 
seed, add two pounds of brown sugar, and two quarts of 
strong vinegar. Simmer till smooth and thick then add 
two pounds chopped, seedless raisins, a small minced 
onion, (or head of garlic) and let come to a boil. Remove 
immediately at this point and add one and a half tablespoons 
(small) each of powdered ginger and mustard; four of 
salt, and two small chopped red-pepper pods. Stir well and 
let stand over night. In the morning stir again, place on 
stove and bring to boiling point, then bottle or put in 
jars, sealing tight. 


GUAVA SYRUP (For Iced Drinks or Pancakes) 


Make as for guava preserves, but including seeds, strain- 
ing off the syrup and bottling while hot. Seal well. Dilute 
when required for use. 

GUAVA SHRUB (For Iced Drinks) 


To six quarts ripe, sliced guavas add one quart of water 
and two and a half ounces tartaric acid or one quart strong 
vinegar. Let stand twenty-four hours, stirring occasion- 
ally (Do not let it ferment), then strain, add a pound of 
sugar to each pint of juice, scald for half an hour, and 
bottle while hot. 


GUAVA BRANDY 
See Peach and Cherry Brandies. 
GUAVA WINE 
Make as for Mulberry Wine. 
GUAVA VINEGAR 


Save all parings and seeds from fresh or cooked guavas 
and place in stone jar, covering with cold water. Over 


294 FRUIT RECIPES 


the mouth of jar tie thin cotton cloth and let stand a week, 
when the old seeds must be removed and replaced with 
fresh seeds or else start new jars with fresh peel and seeds, 
pouring all the water together as the old seeds are removed. 
After the fruit is removed add one-half pint sugar to each 
gallon of fermented liquor. Keep the cloth tied over the 
jar-mouth for about two weeks (or less) after the sugar is 
added and fermented, then cork tight. 


CHAPTER XXV 


ROSE AND MALAY APPLES, JAVA PLUM, 
SURINAM AND BARBADOES “CHERRIES,” 
AND MARMALADE BOX 


THE ROSE APPLE or. Eugenia Jambos 


HIS beautiful, dainty fruit is of the same large family 
of which the guava is a member, the Myrtacee, and 
also that to which the allspice, the Eugenia pimenta, 
belongs. With its rose odour and overdress and delicate 
flavour, it is an extremely attractive morsel. It may be 
eaten in its natural state; sliced, with wine and sugar; sim- 
mered gently with sugar so that a delicate, simple sauce is 
the result, or its top and seeds removed, dropped into 
boiling syrup for about fifteen minutes, then served whole, 
cold. In general it should be treated very much as is the 
guava for foods, either cooked for immediate use, preserved, 
or used in beverages. 


MALAY APPLE AND JAVA PLUM 


The Malay Apple (E. Malaccensis) is not unlike the Rose 
Apple, though larger; in colour the same: pink and white. 
The Java Plum (E. Jambolana) bears a sweet purple fruit 
about the size of Northern plums. 


SURINAM OR CAYENNE CHERRY (Eugenia Micheli) 


This cherry is both black- and red-fruited, the black 
variety being considered somewhat sweeter than the red. 
295 


296 FRUIT RECIPES 


Although not a cherry it may be treated almost identically 
the same in food preparations; in simple cookery or “put 


up.” 

The Barbadoes ‘‘Cherry’’ (Malphigia-glabra) resembles 
the Surinam, though not the same fruit. It is a little 
more tart but may be treated the same in food prepara- 


tion. 
MARMALADE BOX or Genipa Americana 


This plant or small tree is not distantly related to the 
Coffee Plant and Cape Jessamine of the Madder Family, 
and bears a curious and delicious fruit called familiarly 
“Marmalade Box.” It is much valued in Dutch Guiana, 
Brazil, and other tropical countries. 


CHAPTER XXVI 


THE POMEGRANATE 
Pumica Granatum 


HE pomegranate was for very long considered, like 
the guava, a member of the Myrtle Family, now 
more commonly reckoned of the Lythracee or Loosestrife 
Family, and the guava is in reality its namesake since 
“Psidium’’ was derived from the Greek for ‘‘ Psidion,” 
or Pomegranate. ‘“‘Punicum malum,’’ by which the an- 
cients also designated the latter, indicates a Carthaginian 
residence and neither the fig, the grape nor olive was a 
greater favourite from its beauty, medicinal value, or as a 
food accessory (although the pomegranate has not the 
solid elements which would enable subsistence upon that 
alone as with the others just named) in those earlier 
centuries of the world. 

The rind, flowers and root are all astringent. The rind 
has not infrequently been recommended in decoction 
or powdered form: valued as a gargle in sore throat, 
and also as of use in dysentery and intermittent 
fevers. Commercially it has served in tanning leather, 
as have the flowers asa dye. Each part seems to partake 
of the qualities of the others, as, for instance, the bark of the 
tree also has been noted as a dye and the flowers for medi- 
cine. The ancient Asiatics and Europeans, the negroes 
of the West Indies and Mohammedan physicians of India 
seem all to have recognised the value of the root bark as 
a vermifuge. 

The seeds have demulcent qualities but are very. ob- 
jectionable where the fruit is used as a food accessory (as 

297 


298 FRUIT RECIPES 


it may be in numerous ways): these must be removed by 
pressing the pomegranate through a sieve but the seeds 
must not be crushed in so doing for, broken, they are not 
pleasant in flavour. 


RECIPES 


POMEGRANATE ICE 


Cut a dozen ripe pomegranates in half and remove seeds 
from the rind carefully. In the juice stir till dissolved one 
- pound of sugar. Add gradually a pint of water; strain 

again and freeze. ‘ 


POMEGRANATE SYRUP 


Press and strain from seeds and cook down juice till 
thick, when add sugar (see Fruit Syrup: Introductory 
Recipes). The uncooked juice is considered very cooling 
in fevers and the syrup makes a delicious drink. 


JELLY, JAM, ETC. 


Use the tart varieties or those somewhat under-ripe and 
proceed as for other such preparations. The jelly resulting 
is particularly beautiful. 

Pomegranate wine may be made with successful results 
and the fruit, seeds removed, served cooked, or fresh, with 
flavouring of orange blossom—or rose-water, or cocoanut 
and sugar. 


CHAPTER XXVII 


THE AVOCADO, ‘“AGUACATE,” OR ALLIGATOR 
PEAR (Persea Gratissima: Lauracee) 


HIS favourite West Indian and Southern American 
fruit in form resembles a pear somewhat, hence its 
popular name. It varies in size from that of a large pear, 
upward. Its seed occupies rather large space, but 
the melting pulp makes up for this in richness. It is 
called additionally, ‘‘ Palto”’ (in Brazil) and ‘‘Midshipman’s’’ 
or Vegetable Butter. Its wealth of oil is given out to best 
advantage of fruit and eater in salad form. The pulp is 
generally left adhering to the rind in serving. 

A Cuban method of preparation is as follows: The 
fruit is halved before sending to the table, and cut across 
with a sharp knife into little grooves into which the dress- 
ing will run and thus permeate the flesh of the ‘pear.’ 
Then salt, red pepper, and possibly a little cinnamon are 
dusted over it. Next, two mustard-spoonfuls of prepared 
mustard, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and two of oil are 
poured into the halves, a piece of ice placed thereon, and 
the fruit set on ice that it may be thoroughly chilled 
before serving. 

Another method, in vogue in Mexico, is to serve the 
fruit uncut, to be halved at the table. The pulp is then 
rubbed smooth as butter with a spoon, and lime or lemon 
juice added, with oil (one tablespoon of acid to three of 
oil) and a dash of pepper and salt. By some the addition 
of a little sugar is preferred. This is eaten with thin 
slices of bread. 
7 299 


300 FRUIT RECIPES 


A third method of making salad with the avocado is to 
combine it with cress, a little chopped onion, radishes, 
cucumbers, lettuce, beets—in varying combinations, but 
always with the French dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, and 
red pepper. 

Still another way is to use the smooth-rubbed pulp with 
a little oil (in place of the oil added to the yolk of egg for 
mayonnaise), and with pepper, salt, and lemon or lime 
juice to taste, serving with crisp lettuce. 

The sliced fruit is sometimes used as a garnish for meat 
dishes and is also served with wine, sugar, and spices; 
may be peeled, sliced, and fried, or the mashed pulp used 
for sandwiches with lemon juice, pepper, and salt. 


CHAPTER XXVIII 


THE CUSTARD APPLE, THE CHERIMOYA, 
SWEET AND SOUR SOP AND POND APPLE 


Anonacee 


wus one exception (the wild, North American papaw) 

the members of the Anonacee or Custard Apple 
Family are tropical. (It must be remembered that the 
North American wild papaw and the tropical papaw are 
two entirely different fruits.) The fruit which bears the 
family name individually, the Custard Apple, or Bullock’s 
Heart (A. reticulata), resembles distantly the wild Northern 
papaw. Itisdark brownin colour; roundish in form, and 
is best in its natural state, thoroughly ripened, for eating, 
though it may be varied by serving with sugar and cream, 
with whipped eggs or by being frozen. 

The Sweet Sopor Sugar Appleisthe Anona squamosa. The 
“ sweet, mealy, aromatic pulp of this little fruit is sometimes 
cooked in simple form but it is most delicious in its natural 
state. (The seeds, powdered, will drive away fleas or other 
insects.) In appearance the Sugar Apple somewhat 
resembles tiny, crownless pineapples. 

The Sour Sop (Anona muricata), is much larger than the 
Sweet Sop, weighing up to five pounds or more, and, while 
also aromatic, is somwhat tart and chiefly used in making 
cold drinks, ices, etc., as it is most refreshing in effect. 

The Pond Apple, A. palustris or A. glabra, or laurifolia, 
sometimes mistakenly called ‘“‘the Custard Apple,” 
which name properly belongs to the Bullock’s Heart, is not 
as great a favourite as the other members of the family 

301 


302 FRUIT RECIPES 


though it is a fragrant, creamy fruit, ‘‘conical, with blunt 
point (not unlike a Bellflower apple in shape), and when 
ripe the large stem pulls out of the fruit, leaving a hole 
half-way through it.”—H. E. Van Deman. 

On the other hand, A. cherimolia, the Cherimoya, or 
Chiramoya, or Jamaica Apple, is the greatest favourite of 
the Anonas, most delicious, and even considered to outrank 
in general attractions every other known fruit save the 
Mangosteen. It varies in size and weight from those no 
larger than anorange to fifteen “‘pounders.” Its juicy 
white pulp (containing small brown seeds) is eaten with a 
spoon, uncooked. It also makes a delicious frozen dainty. 


MAMMEE SAPOTA 


THE MANGOSTEEN: Garcinia mangostana 


MunUUOD "3 DSU sndtv00..7 
LING GVaNE THL VITIGOdVS FHL 


CHAPTER XXIX 


THE MANGOSTEEN—THE MAMMEE APPLE 
_ Garcinia Mangostana—Mammea Americana 


HESE two tropical fruits are related and both of 
them are extremely delicious, the Mangosteen often 
being declared to be ‘‘finest fruit in the world.” In flavour 
it combines the delicate yet rich qualities of the pineapple, 
grape, peach, and strawberry, in form resembling somewhat 
the pomegranate, though the rind is more pulpy and the 
pulp itself more juicy and firm. It is at its best uncooked 
and being slightly laxative may be eaten freely. It may 
of course be frozen in various simple forms or used with 
gelatine. 

There is an African variety quite similar (Mammea 
Africana). 

The Mammee Apple (Mammea Americana), sometimes - 
called the South American or St. Domingo or wild apricot, 
is one of the standbys of tropical countries, being delicious 
in flavour and very useful in its adaptability as a food. 
Yellow in colour, it sometimes grows to the size of a 
grape-fruit, its double rind covering a dainty interior, 
although its outer covering and the seeds with their 
immediately surrounding pulp are bitter. The firm, 
aromatic, intermediate pulp, removed from rind and 
seeds, may be eaten with no special preparation or, un- 
cooked, with wine or cream and sugar. Dropped into 
boiling syrup, simmered, and served cold, it is delicious, 
or, pulp cooked down, sugar added in usual proportion, 
and simmered till thick, made into marmalade or jam. 

393 


304 FRUIT RECIPES 


Like the guava, it is susceptible of many variations as a 
fresh food or preserve. 

The Mountain Plum (Rheedia Edulis), is a relative of 
the mangosteen and bears, also, edible fruit, which are 
sub-acid and not unlike the ordinary plum of the tem- 
perate zones 


CHAPTER XXX 


SAPODILLA, MAMMEE SAPOTA, WHITE 
SAPOTA, STAR APPLE, COCOA PLUM AND 
EGG FRUIT (or “Ti-es”) 


HESE fruits come under the Sapotacee and are a 
very delicious group. The Sapodilla, or Sapodilla 
Plum, or ‘‘Dilly,” (Achras sapota) at first sight invariably 
reminds one of a russet apple, though in flavour it is rather 
a combination of pear and peach and the soft pulp is 
coarse-grained. Its homely, rusty coat is a deceptive 
covering for it is an excellent fruit, uncooked or preserved, 
and may be treated very much as are peaches. 

The Wild ‘Dilly’ (Mimusops Siebert) is a delicious, 
berry-like little fruit very much liked. 

The Mammee Sapota or Lucuma inammosa, has rather 
unusual fruit which much varies in size—from that of a 
muskmelon down to that of a goose-egg—and the bright, 
reddish pulp, which has been compared to both pumpkin- 
pie and to muskmelon, is eaten uncooked, just as it is. 
It contains from one to three long seeds. 

The White Sapota (Casimiroa edulis) is about the size 
of a peach and resembles it somewhat in flavour. 

The Star Apple (Chrysophyllum catnito) varies in colour 
with variety, (being purple or green), described by Kingsley 
as ‘‘an evergreen peach, shedding from the under side of 
every leaf a golden light—call it not shade.’ It is larger, 
however, more like an apple in form and smoothness of 
skin. Its star-shaped core contains numerous brown seeds, 
rather large and flat. The flavour is somewhat peculiar, 

395 


306 FRUIT RECIPES 


but the apple may be varied in preparation. Its pulp 
mixed with orange juice is in Jamaica called “‘ Matrimony.” 

The Cocoa Plum (Chrysobolanus icaco), with its pink 
and white fruit, was so named because the seeds were 
thought to resemble the cocoanut in form and the fruit the 
common plum. 

The egg Fruit (Lucuma rivicoa), called in Key West 
“Ti-ess” or “Ti-es,”’ is like a small Mammee Sapota and 
considered equally delicious. .- 


CHAPTER XXXI 


SIX OF THE MORE FAMILIAR TROPICAL AND 
SEMI-TROPICAL FRUITS 


HE mango (Mangifera Indica) is one of the most 
delicious and one of the most maligned of tropical 
fruits, this state of affairs arising because of the unpleasant 
fibrous nature of several varieties and the unmistakable 
turpentine flavour of some of them which have unfortun- 
‘ately been put upon the market stringy and unripe. The 
best mangoes are almost as delicate as perfect pineapples 
and contain much food value. Not only is this fruit sus- 
ceptible of being cooked in numerous ways and eaten fresh, 
made into wine and various preserves, but starch and 
glucose are manufactured from the mango and when ani- 
mals of the lower world are given it as a staple food they 
flourish. The fruit is truly exceedingly juicy and it is 

sometimes said that it should be eaten only in one’s bath- , 
tub, in consequence, but where the mango grows in the 
greatest luxuriance and it is properly understood and used 
one may procure the regular mango-fork, a three pronged 
affair of which the middle prong is long and projecting, to 
be so imbedded that the fruit will not slip. Otherwise, 
the mango may be sliced before serving with wine, sugar 
and nutmeg. It may also be simply stewed. Before 
maturity it may be pickled or preserved, as well as at later 
stages. The kernels of the seeds are sometimes roasted 

and eaten like chestnuts. 
The Tropical Papaw (Carica papaya) is a very interest- 
ing and valuable tree as well as fruit. The form of the 
3°7 


308 FRUIT RECIPES 


_ tree is more nearly that of a palm than anything else and 
the leaves resemble those of both the castor bean and fig, 
being curiously cut, large and graceful. They have a 
singular and valuable power in their action upon meat 
fibre in which quality the rind of the papaw shares: When 
the rind is rubbed over the toughest meat or the meat is 
wrapped for a few hours in the leaves the offending tough- 
ness entirely disappears. The fruit juice has remarkable 
stomachic qualities and Joseph Jefferson was a noted ex- 
ample of the claim that the tropical papaw is a cure for 
dyspepsia. In form the fruit is rather a cross between the 
banana and the muskmelon. It may be prepared for 
cookery, like the coarser vegetables of northern climates, 
before it quite reaches maturity; eaten uncooked, it must 
be thoroughly ripened to be acceptable to the palate. 
(This fruit is not in the least related to the Northern papaw.) 

‘Prickly Pear’ is rather an indefinite term as there are 
over one hundred and fifty members of this, the Opuntia, 
of the Cactacee. The yellow-fruited O. Ficus-Indiea and 
the O. tuna, which bears purple-red fruit, are perhaps best 
known and are very commonly used for eating uncooked or 
stewed with some other fruit, as lemon or pineapple, for 
flavouring, or preserves. The fruit, though sub-acid, has 
with many varieties not distinct enough a tone to render it 
extremely popular though it is very refreshing and cooling 
and the mucilaginous quality, which is not unpleasant, is 
considered healing. The purple-fruited prickly pear is 
often used for colouring in desserts and preserves. 

The Granadilla and ‘“‘May-Pop’’ are members of the 
Passifloracee, edible fruits of the passion vine. The May- 
pop, Passiflora incarnata, grows wild in the Southern States, 
but it is little known that it makes a beautiful and delicate 
jelly. It is a smaller edition of the Passiflora edulis and 
the Passiflora quadrangularis, two varieties of granadilla, 


SIX FAMILIAR FRUITS 399 


some of the latter of which grow to the size of a small 
melon. It was named, it is said, by the early Spaniards 
for the pomegranate, or “granada.” It is often served 
uncooked with wine and sugar. Where jelly is made of 
this or the May-pop, the ripe fruit, halved across, should 
be covered with cold water, adding about one-third the 
quantity of well filled out but still immature, green-skinned 
fruit. Cook slowly for three-quarters of an hour, then add 
a little cold water and simmer again for an hour. Strain 
off the juice (which should by this time be well cooked 
down), and proceed as for ordinary fruit jelly. (See 
previous recipes.) Marmalade may be made by using the 
pulp of the fruit, putting through a colander or sieve, cook- 
ing down, and adding sugar. The resulting colour of jelly 
or marmalade is a pale yellow. 

The famous Tamarind Tree (Tamarindus Indica) has 
delicate leaves and pink and white flowers succeeded by 
edible pods which are preserved and used in confections, 
beverages, and medicinally. The acid of the fresh tamarind 
is very pleasing, and is a combination of citric, malic, 
formic, butyric, and tartaric acids, the tartness being 
given chiefly by the citric. The laxative and cooling 
qualities make the tamarind considered of much value in 
many cases of illness and certainly in the prevention of it. 
Tamarinds are usually shipped from the East or West 
Indies in some form of preserve though with a little more 
care it is said they might be had more abundantly in the 
market in fresh form, if the shell or pod were prevented 
from breaking, for with this natural protection they keep 
well for some months. With the pods removed the tama- 
rind may be preserved by pouring boiling syrup over the 
fruit or by placing in stone jars with alternate layers of 
sugar. They may be also candied and made into syrup 
for use in various summer drinks, though now known chiefly 


310 FRUIT RECIPES 


as a valued drink in fevers. The tamarind perhaps may 
be likened to the lemon and also somewhat to the grape. 
It has a good percentage of bitartrate of potassa, its other 
components (besides the acids) being gum, pectin, water, 
and pulpy matter. 

The Bread Fruit Tree (Artocarpus incisa, or A. com- 
munis) bears for eight months in succession its generous 
balls of pulp which are so useful as a food to so many 
tropical peoples. It is prepared in various ways for eating, 
one of the most common methods being to bake it with a 
bit of fat meat in the centre of the fruit. It tastes 
something like potato as well as somewhat resembling 
bread. 


THE PRICKLY PEAR 


MAMMEE APPLE OR ST. DOMINGO APRICOT 


TANOAVE HSINVdS JO Linda @IddV dO LON MAHSVO 


a} 


x. 
hs 


4 


CHAPTER XXXII 


SOME OF THE LESS KNOWN FRUITS 


HE Otaheite and Spanish or Barbadoes_ goose- 
berries are ‘“‘gooseberries’”? by courtesy only, al- 
though the resemblance is not strained. The former, 
Cicca disticha (C. racemosa), is a tree whose berries are 
white and waxy, growing in clusters, the tree, leaves, and 
berries all being very ornamental. The ‘‘gooseberries” 
are extremely acid and very acceptable at their season of 
ripening: the height of summer. The Spanish, or 
Barbadoes Gooseberry, the Pereskia aculeata, or Lemon 
Vine, is a climbing cactus with exquisite blossoms which 
resemble miniature pond lilies, and fruit of pleasing 
tartness. (The blossoms, however, give out an unpleasant 
musty odour.) The berries may be used in many 
different ways, bringing out their refreshing flavour in 
natural state or for culinary purposes. 

The Spanish Lime, or Ginep (Melicocca bijuga) has an 
edible fruit resembling the Northern plum in appearance but 
with rather a grape flavour, both pulp and seeds being 
edible, the latter sometimes roasted and eaten like chest- 
nuts. 

The Sea Grape or Shore Grape of the West Indies, the 
Coccoloba uvifera, is not a vine but a broad-leaved, bushy 
tree or plant with purple-red fruits of agreeable flavour, 
susceptible of varied preparation. 

The Ceriman or Monstera deliciosa is sometimes called 
the ‘‘false bread-fruit,’’ but its distinction should rest 
entirely upon itself for the tall, spreading plant with large, 

Bil 


312 FRUIT RECIPES 


curiously shaped leaves bears a most delicious fruit, cone- 
like in form, whose flavour is singularly delightful, a com- 
bination of pineapple and banana both as to taste and pulp- 
consistency, though far more aromatic than either. The 
lignt, husky skin is not unlike the pineapple in its markings, 
though very tender and readily removed. 

The Kai Apple (Aberia Cajffra), from Natal, is a large, 
edible fruit which makes an excellent preserve. 

The Carissa carandas or ‘‘Caraunda,” the Carissa arduina 
and C. acuminata, are also Natal fruits, known variously 
as “Amatungulu”’ and ‘‘Amatungula”’ and ‘‘Maritzgula.” 
The Carissa arduina resembles both a cherry and 
raspberry, having a thin, deep-red skin, and tiny seeds 
(larger than the fruits it resembles), and makes a delicious 
preserve though equally good uncooked. 

The ‘Strawberry Pear” (Cereus triangularis) is a rela- 
tive of the Night-blooming Cereus, and its “‘scaly buds,” 
called ‘‘Godochro”’ in Jamaica, are used in making the tooth- 
‘some ‘‘pepper-pot”’ of the West Indies. The “ pear” itself 
is pleasing but not more pronounced than many other 
fruits of the cacti. 

The ‘‘Melon Pear’ or Pepino, sometimes called also 
“Melon Shrub” is one of the edible Solanums, described 
by Mr. Grelech of Los Angeles, who introduced it there 
from Guatemala, as resembling ‘‘in many respects the 
Chili pepper vine, the tomato, or the nightshade. . . . The 
fruit is of the size of a hen or goose egg or even larger, 
and very much of the same shape. . . . The interior of the 
fruit is a solid pulp similar to that of a pear, also of a pale 
yellow colour and of a taste resembling that of a fine musk- 
melon, but which has besides a charming acid, so whole- 
some and delicious that when the fruit is partaken of on 
a very warm day it allays the thirst for several hours.” 
It is in colour lemon, streaked with violet. 


SOME LESS KNOWN FRUITS 313 


The ‘Tree Tomato” of Jamaica is another Solanum 
(S. betaceum), which is grown over much of the world for its 
purplish-red fruit which, uncooked, and fully ripe is not un- 
like a gooseberry, or, stewed with sugar, an apricot, though 
more tart. It is used as is the tomato and is about the 
same size though oval rather than rounding. 

The Cashew Apple or Nut (Anacardium occidentale) 
bears its seeds outside of the pulp and both parts are used 
as food, the nut being roasted like chestnuts or used for 
flavouring, in the making of chocolate or wine. Itis said, 
however, that care must be taken in roasting the kernel, 
as from its thin covering a peculiar vapour rises which is 
apt to affect the skin. The pulp or stalk of the fruit 
proper is pleasantly tart and varies in both colour and 
size radically. 

The red fruit of the Akee Tree, the Cupania sapida, is 
not considered quite safe to eat uncooked, but cooked, 
stewed, or otherwise prepared, is both palatable and 
wholesome. 

The Mangrove, or Riuzophora, one of the hour-glass-like 
guardians of the seashore in the tropics, has an edible fruit, 
sweet and pleasant in flavour, which may be varied in 
preparation; and the juice, fermented, makes an acceptable 
light wine. 

The Carambola (Averrhoa carambola) is also sometimes 
called the Coromandel Gooseberry in India. It is curiously 
formed, with five distinct ribs or angles; has a thin, smooth 
coat, generally yellow in colour, and is about the size of a 

‘duck-egg. The flavour ranges from sweet to acid so that 
it is used variously, for desserts or preserves, cooked or not 
as rendered necessary by its flavour. 

The Averrhoa Bilimbt, or Blimbling, is a similar fruit but 
generally more acid. The leaves of both resemble those of 
the sensitive plant in irritability. 


314 FRUIT RECIPES 


The Emblic Myrobolan (Phyllanthus emblica) is a beauti- 
ful plant with delicate leaves, a fruit similar to the plum 
and equally edible in simple or preserved form. 

The Durian or Durion (Durio zibethinus: Nat. Ord. 
Sterculiacee), is a remarkable Malay fruit. The tree is tall 
and spreading, the fruit, rounding yet oval, ‘‘the size of a 
man’s head,” is light green and covered with spines. It 
takes nine months to ripen and the odour from it is very 
offensive to Europeans till accustomed to it. The creamy 
pulp, somewhat like a strawberry in flavour, is delicious 
and contains large seeds, edible when roasted. 

The Nephelium longanum, or Longan Tree, is hand- 
somely leaved and clustered with fruit, the latter having 
one large seed in the centre with sweet, translucent pulp 
surrounding it. It is a near relative of the famous Chinese 
nut-tree, the Nephelium Litcht (or Leechee), which loses 
its pink colour (of pulp) when dried and so reaches other 
countries in brown, shrivelled form. 

The Strawberry Tree (Arbutus unedo) is semi-tropical 
but will grow as far north as Ireland. The tree, flowers and 
berries are all very ornamental and from the edible fruit 
both sugar and a fermented liquor are made. In Italy and 
Spain the berries are much liked. 

The Otaheite Apple, or Spondias dulcis, is a fruit- 
bearing tree whose ‘‘apples’’ are in colour and size like 
small oranges and in flavour resemble the pineapple. 

The Otaheite Plum, or ‘‘Jamaica” or ‘‘Hog-Plum” 
(Spondias lutea or S. cytheria) is related to the Otaheite 
Apple but its fruit more nearly resembles the larger Loquat 
(‘Japan Plum”’). 

The Ximenia Americana is also often called the ‘‘ Hog- 
Plum”’ and is also an edible, though a smaller fruit. 

The Adansonia digitata or ‘‘Baobob,’’ known best in 
Africa, is commonly called ‘‘Monkey’s Bread.’’ The oval 


MARIND 


THE TA 


TAMARIND TREE 


MULGOBA MANGO 


SOME LESS KNOWN FRUITS 315 


fruit is nearly afoot long. The pulp, which is ‘‘a little fari- 
naceous, mixed with fibres,’’ is tart and wholesome and 
so distinctly refrigerant that it is often given fever 
patients. 

The Bengal Quince, Elephant Apple, or Apple-boom 

(Aegle marmelos) is related to the Citrus fruits and its 
leaves and manner of growth resemble different Citrus 
varieties. 
- The “Bacury” of Brazil (Platonia insignis) has a rather 
tart pulp containing a few seeds, the whole covered by. a 
hard, smooth rind or shell of a gay yellow hue. The most 
costly preserves of some parts of Brazil are made, it is said, 
from this cocoanut-like ‘‘Bacury.” ° 

The Chilian Myrtle (Myrtus ugin) has a soft, juicy, red- 
brown fruit, in appearance rather like a ‘“‘large, black 
currant.” It is patticularly used, uncooked, ag a simple 
dessert fruit or in cooling drinks and is delightfully 
aromatic. 

The Capuassa (Deltonia luctea) is a Brazilian fruit tree 
with extremely heavy foliage and a large-seeded, yellow- 
meated fruit covered witha hard shell of rough, semewhat 
furry appearance. Rand says, in describing the strained, 
crushed, and diluted pulp of this wonderfully fragrant fruit, 
that the resulting drink, called by courtesy wine, ‘“‘is worth 
a voyage across the Atlantic.’’. 

The Peach ‘‘Palm” (Guielma speciosa) bears a fruit 
somewhat resembling the apricot, but triangular in form 
rather than oval. It is used more like a potato, or the 
cassava, or bread fruit, resembling also somewhat the 
Spanish chestnut when roasted or otherwise prepared, its 
ground meal often being made into bread or cakes for 
baking. 

The Madagascar Voa-vanga (Vangueria edulis) pro- 
duces edible berries nearly an inch in diameter. 


316 FRUIT RECIPES 


The Antidesma bunins, a fruit of Java, produces a 
berry which is red before reaching maturity, when it turns 
black. It is rather tart and excellent for preserves. 

A Japanese tree, the Hovenia dulcis, bears a sweet, 
fleshy and aromatic little fruit of fine flavour. 

The Tropical Almond, Terminalia catappa, is not an 
almond save in name, though it has oily, edible seeds which 
are used like nuts. 

The Jujube (Zizyphus), which has given its name to the 
famous confection, Jujube Paste (which latter, however, 
is usually made merely of gum-arabic and sugar and is quite 
innocent of the Jujube ingredient) has a number of in- 
teresting members, among them the true Lotus. The fruit 
of the common Jujube (J. vulgaris) is not unlike an olive 
or a date and is ordinarily red, though sometimes yellow, 
in colour. It is dried and sold as a sweetmeat, so delicious 
is it in flavour. Also, it is much eaten uncooked, as a 
dessert-fruit in some places. The Jujube contains a large 
amount of nourishment and is considered of value medic- 
inally for its demulcent properties. 

The Sorrel or Roselle Berry (Jamaica Sorrel: Hibiscus 
subdariffa) is a rival of the currant and mulberry as a 
jelly-maker. With its juice, however, use only about 
three-fourths pound of sugar to a pint of juice. The 
calyxes of the sorrel may be preserved and the young 
leaves cooked as ‘‘greens.’’ The colour of the jelly is apt 
to fade in strong light so the glasses should be wrapped in 
newspaper and placed in a cool, dark spot. 

The Spanish Bayonet of the South, belonging to the 
Yuccas (Yucca baccata) has a magnificent flower stalk 
rising from the centre of its tall, spiny column, which is 
‘succeeded by an equally imposing cluster of curious 
fruit with thick, tender rind and seeds. The juicy pulp 
may be prepared for cooking in similar fashion to apples, 
to which it bears a not distant resemblance in flavour. 


SOME LESS KNOWN FRUITS 317 


There are two plants which deserve mention among 
the fruits from the value to mankind of their roots: the 
Caladium esculenta, and the Zingiber officinalis, or 
Ginger Plant. 

The Caladium esculenta is one of the most commonly 
cultivated of all Caladiums but its leaves Hterally and 
figuratively overshadow its roots, and the riches of the 
latter remain undreamed of. It is a very starchy food, 
considered of more value than [rish potatoes but may be 
prepared in cookery in much the same way. The Cocco 
Root, or ‘‘Eddoes,” of the genus Colocasia, of the same 
natural order (Araceae) as the Caladiums, is much culti- 
vated for the food value of numerous varieties in the South 
Seas, in the Himalayas, and in tropical America. Some 
of the Cocco varieties are a little acrid before cooking and 
in the raw state rather stimulating. The Caladium, how- 
ever, is mild. 

The virtues and delights of the Ginger Root are as famil- 
iar as the alphabet whether considered medicinally or 
culinarily. It is supposed to have been imported originally 
from India to Africa and the West Indies. The roots are 
generally dug when about a year old, cleaned and scalded, 
then dried and shipped, though the ‘‘green” ginger is also 
an article of ecommerce. The favourite form of ginger is of 
course, the preserve or confection, and for either one the 
young, tender roots must be used. (It may be mentioned 
that the roots of the ‘‘Shell Lily, the “Alpinia nutans 
may be preserved or candied with similar results.) The 
following are old recipes which may be successfully used 
with Ginger Root. 


PRESERVED GINGER 


Scrape the young, green roats and weigh them, allowing 
equal weight of sugar. Boil each separately, the ginger 


318 FRUIT RECIPES 


until tender enough to be pierced with a wooden splinter, 
and the sugar with water and cream of tartar until it forms 
asyrup. (Allow a half pint of water and a half teaspoon of 
cream of tartar to each pound of sugar.) Skim the syrup 
well; place the ginger in it and when it has boiled up well 
place in jars and seal. 

This may be varied in flavour by adding lemon, orange, 
or other fruit as flavouring. To every three pounds of 
ginger allow at least the juice of one lemon and rind, and 
for each pint additional of lemon juice add one pound of 
sugar. 

CANDIED GINGER 


See Candied Cherries and the Kumquat. 


GINGER VINEGAR 


For each quart of strong vinegar allow two ounces of 
crushed white ginger and let stand two months, when 
strain, bottle, and cork well. 


GINGER WINE No. r (Old Recipe) 


Allow twelve ounces of bruised ginger to nine gallons of 
soft water and boil till well-flavoured, when add eighteen 
pounds of sugar. Let dissolve and partially cool when 
add a little hop-yeast. When clear rack off and bottle 
at once. , 


GINGER WINE No. 2 (Old Recipe) 


To ten gallons of soft water add fifteen pounds of “‘loaf- 
sugar clarified with the whites of six eggs,” and one-half 
pound of sliced and bruised white ginger. When this has 
boiled one-half hour stir into it the thin-peeled yellow rind 
of a dozen lemons and let stand till cool. Then add a 
gill of yeast, first, however, reserving two quarts of the 
mixture in which must be dissolved two ounces of 


SOME LESS KNOWN FRUITS 319 
\ 
isinglass. When dissolved mix with the other liquor; stir 
well and let stand twelve hours, when the bung should be 
closed. Bottle in three weeks and in four months it will 
be ready to use. 


GINGER EXTRACT. 


Cover two ounces of bruised ginger root with one-half 
pint of pure grain alcohol. Let stand till the spirit is 
impregnated thoroughly with the spice when strain and 
bottle for flavouring. 


REMINGTON’S ANALYSES OF FRUITS 


., | Pectinous| _Albu- 
p : Sugar | Free Acid es| . Minous 
Kinds of Fruit Per cent. | Per cent. ee Substances 
Apple........ aie aes aeeabigu 7toz10} $tor 5 5 
‘Apricot Dilcvaresess cane tuaticnests 1to2 4tor | sto1o] f$tor 
eer Sdese Gfaine Sugsanszave ota 
Rubus Villosus............. 
“Canadensis. Bal - 1 to 14 bi 
8 Priviats weiss sues eo 
led (Vac. Resinosum).. 5 I 4 i 
Lapis eawass Meigen SeRee eS 8 to 13 I 4 to 3 3 to 3 
eRe (red). saitsPned Reabew Ye 4to7 1 to2 4 to} 
Gooseberry .............4. ....| 6t08 1} £to2 
POAC croncinsiapetidnatiisine aessiecte's 4 6 
po wistena sh tcneheseccrodonseicusensase vi 3 
nea pple ss cecdscemonueeeniony ove I 
Bhi vais@ieausun aunt whines os tto2 | $tor | 2torr 3 
Raspberry (Rubus Idoeus)...| 3 to 5 I 2tos I 
Strawberry ..............00- 3 t07 I 2 4 


ANALYSES OF FRUITS: U.S. DISPENSATORY: 
WOOD & BACHE 


Barberry: 

Per cent. 
Malic acid............- 5.92 
Sugar sissy esse asayreess 4.67 
Gums see sans ese saee 6.61 
Water 5.5 ca veceiis's ones 67.16 

Salts, Potassa, and 
Lami: ieccineselecress .06 


Mulberry: (Analysis of H. Van | 


Heese): 
Per cent. 
Glucose and uncrys- 
tallisable sugar..... 9.19 


Free acid (supposed 
to be malic and tar- 


PATIC) ks cower eves eee 1.86 

SH ikea a iean sweats ence V.57 
Album. matter........ 0.39 
Pectic « S$ -fa ts, 

salts, and gum...... 2.03 

ALOR vise certs wane tate 84.71 
Insoluble matter as 

seeds, pectose, cellu- 

lose, etc............. 1.25 


Fig: (Grape-sugar, gum, and 
mucilage. Koenig’s Anal.) 

Per cent. 

Water onc sccanesinass ec 31.20 

Nitrogenous material. 4.01 

Sugar. es cscs danse ceed 49-79 

Ashes ccctci wander est 2.86 


Reckoned on the weight of 
absolutely dry material the ni- 


trogenous material: 5.75%; 
sugar: 72.56%. 
Prune: Koenig’s Analysis. 


(Contains uncrystallisable 
sugar, malic acid, and muci- 
laginous matter). 


Per cent. 

Water scien: cases cous 29.30 

Nitrogenous mat..... 2.50 

Fab oe asiadcas ated ocaanes é 53 

Sugar lees cence cee 4.35 

Other nit. free mat.. us 89 

Free acid.............. 2.72 
Woody fibre (not in- 

cluding stone)....... 1.48 

Ds ctiowiaw webeog seen e4% 1.38 


FRESH FRUITS. AVERAGE COMPOSITION* 


NoRTHERN 

. Car- Fuel - 

Food Materials Refuse} Water |Protein| Fat Les Ash — 
Per Ct.|Per Ct.) Per Ct.\Per Ct.\Per Ct.|Per Ct.jpound 

Apples............ 25. 163.3 | .3 3 «10.8 53 Tgo 
Grapes ........... 25. 58.0 |1.0 1.2 14.4 4 205 
Muskmelons...... 50. 44:8 | a3 |eiswsss 4.6 3 80 
Watermelon...... 59.4 137-5 2 I 2.7 I 50 
P@arss: wos ie isaess 10,0 |76.0 5 4 12.7 4 230 
N. Persimmons..j....... 66.1 8 7 131.5 9 550 

(edible portion) 
Raspberries......]....... 85.8 [1.0 J... 12.6 .6 220 
Strawberries ..... 5. |85.9 9 6 7.0 6 150 
Dried. 

Applesivssicxesexlercices 28.1 }1.6 |2.2 [66.1 | 2.0 | 1185 
Apricots..........}....... 29.4 |4.7 1.0 |62.5 | 2.4 | 1125 
Raisins ........... 10,00 |13.1 |2.3 3.0 {68.5 3-1 | 1265 


* Extracts from Table 1, Farmers’ Bulletin, No. 142. Principles of Nutrition 
and Nutritive Value of Food. (Rev. Ed.) By W. O. Atwater, Ph. D., Special Agent 
in Charge of Nutrition Investigations Office of Experiment Station. 


TROPICAL AND SEMI-TROPICAL FRUITS 


ae Car- Fuel 
Food Materials Refuse} Water |Protein} Fat eye Ash value 
Per Ct.|Per Ct.|Per Ct.|Per Ct.|Per Ct.|Per Ct.lpound 
Banana........... 35-00 148.9 8 4 | 14.3 6 260 
Orange........... 27.00 |63.4 6 I 8.5 4 150 
Guavaf........... 13.2 [69.43 | -98| .5 | 14.41] .34] 321 
jap. Persimmon.]....... 66.1 80} .7 | 32.50] .9 550 
@MON.......-.--- 30.00 {62.5 7 5 5-9 4 I25 
Cocoanut......... 48.008] 7.2 2.9 |25.9 | 14.3 9 | 1295 
le Prep....|.......| 3-5 | 6.3 [57-4 | 31-5 | 1.3 | 2865 
“ Milkf ..}....... 92.7 4] 1.5 4.6] 8 342 
Alligator pear 
(edible portion)}]....... 81.1 | 4.0 |r0.2 6.8] 0.9 |.....- 
Surinam cherry f]....... 85.0 wae |lseccwas aiz.g| .7 |.----- 
Roselle: ¢ 
Cal yo ore csiciiie ee Peaeeiins 86.5 | 2.1 3 10.3 Be Views 
Pod siijiscasctgarss| eagenk? 84.0 | 1.7 | 1.0 | 12.2] an |.....- 
Ex. from calyx..|....... gi.2 oan (eee by.2] .7 |... 
Ex. from pods..|....... 93-7 | 1-5 eee a ny on 
Dried Fruits: 
Dates............- 10.00 |13.8 1.9 2.5 7o.6 | 1.2 | 1275 
PIGS! oi 0s Bache ca] canted 18.8 4.3 3 74.2 | 2.4 | 1280 


+ Guava and Cocoanut Milk data from M. E. Jaffa’s report. Bulletin No, 132. 
Guava—Additional: Crude Fibre, 1.14 per cent. 

From Farmers’ Bulletin, No. 169. 

Including ro per cent. invert sugar, 10.1 per cent. total sugar. 

Including 1.6 per cent. sugar. 

¢ Including 1 per cent. sugar. 


Tae 


32r 


FOOD MATERIALS. 


ComPosiITION DETERMINED 


(AVERAGE EDIBLE PORTION)* 


Pro- Carbohydrates 6 38 F 
Refuse|Water| tein | Fat Ash (883 & 
Fresh Fruits Nx6 25 creer Cmde a 9 B 5 
Per Ct.|Per Ct.| Per Ct.|PerCt.| Per Ct.|Per Ct.| Per Ct. | Calories 
Apples....... 86.21] So] .27/11.87| .88) .27|) .257 
Bananas.... 77.15| 1.60] .24/19.68) .52) .81 424 
Grapes...... 85.95] -70] .33|12.20] .48] .33 -271 
Oranges 86.49] 1.26] .18/10.84] .6o} .63 -250 
PEATS .s sssans arene ¢ 80.92| -99| -47/15-73| 2-47] -43 -360 
Jap. Persimmon..}...... 80.21] 1.36] .57/15.13| 2.08} .65] .384 
OVS a5 ob dpovarsee oat] 2 Seve 67. 2.48/17.07} 5.67] 3.35] 4-43] -8907 
Scarlet Haws......]...... 75.83] 1.98] .65|18.57| 2.13] .84] .468 
Watermelon......|...... g2.17| .87| .r0] 6.4r] .18) .27| .148 
RAISINS. isc eviggen s|oeeves 28.47| 4-55| -61/62.57| .66/ 3.14] 1.336 
Prunes) sinsss sears |tpeses 29.14| 2.54| -59/63.37| 1.65] 2.71] 1.292 
Canned Peaches..}...... 86.45] .55|------ 12.20] .37| .43] -247 
Cocoanuts.........]....5- 19.07] 5.25] -51| 9.67/13.77| 1-14] 2.712 
Composition ASSUMED 
7 Pro- Carbohydrates 6 of 
‘ Refuse|Water| tein | Fat jo 7,4 | Ash |gou 
Fresh Fruits Nx625 epee ence ae bs 
Per Ct.| Per Ct.\Per Ct.|Per Ct.| Per Ct.| Per Ct.| Per Ct.| Calories 
Canteloupe........|...... 89.5| 6 |...... 7.2 | 2.1 .6.[ 408 
' Pomegranates....]...... 76.8| 1.5 | 1.6 |16.8 | 2.7 .6 | 1.014 
epee (ried)... saul 29-4] 4.7 | 1.00/62.5 |...... 2.4 | 2.844 
Figs...... 22.7) 4.3 -7 162.5 | 8.5 | 1.3 | 3.098 
Dates... 38.2| 2.9 +3 |55.0 | 2.2 | 1.4 |. 2.494 
Strawberries......|...... 90.4] 1.0 6 | 6.0/1.4 | .6 +397 
Raspberries, red..|...... 86.4| 1.5 |...... DEF Sv sssecor 4 540 
Apple Sauce......]...... 61.1] .2 5B 3722 owas ss 7 | 1.609 


* Composition of Food Materials Used in Dietary Studies and Digestion Exper- 
iments (Table12). M. E. Jaffa, M. S., Cal., Agr. Experimental Station, rgo1-2. 


322 


TABLE 56.—Comparative cost of total nutrients and energy in di}- 
ferent food materials at average prices 


a Amounts fo 10 Cents 
q| 7% eid g 
5 ! 8 5 [] 8 a8 G E 
Kind of Food Material ts a8 5 ba) 3 J 5 
3 q pe f| 8 |Fat| 2 
a} ee | £8 lau] g| a 
g}] eu | Be $8 Ay a A 
ape | 8 es é 
Fresh Fruits: Cts. | Dollars | Cents | Lbs. | Lbs. | Lbs.| Lbs. Car 
Apples e.siicccsccsesoncs: 14] 5.00] 7.30/6.67] .02} .02] .72/1,467 
Apricots ............... 3 | 3.00] 12.8 ]3.33] -03]--.--| -42] 849 
Bananas................ 7 8.75] 23.3 |1.43] .Oz]..---] .21] 429 
Canteloupes ........... 34] 11.67] 38.9 |2.86] .or].....] .13] 257 
Cherries................ 4 4.45] 11.6 |2.50] .02] .02] .go] 862 
PAGS 5. is 2 sctizpovestionas ec ehcuces 7 4.67] 18.4 |1.43] .02]....-| .27| 543 
Grapes ..............0.. 4 4.00] II.g [2.50] -03} .03] .36] 837 
LEMONS eiicceeecegie vee. 7 | 10.00] 48.3 |1.43] .or].....] .o8] 207 
DAMES 5 4 ¢ sess ees sous 24| 3.57] 17-2 |4.00] .03] .02] .24] 580 
Nectarines............. 8 | 13.33] 28.1 |x.25] .or].....] .r9] 356 
Oranges.............46. 6 | 10.00] 35.2 |1.67| .or|.....! .14] 284 
OUVES: s.scss eecwes ott 10 | 4.90] 13.6 |1.00] .o2-.14] .07| 737 
Peaches ................ 4 | 8.00} 25.4 |2.50] .or|....-] .r9] 398 
PATS coc acc s annette 3 6.00] 11.5 |3.33] .02] .o1] .42] 866 
Persimmons............ 10 | 9.62] 34.3 |r.00} .or]..... .13| 292 
Pineapples............. 4] 9.76] 3.8 |2.50] .or].....| .13] 263 
Plums, «isss0s sian coe. 3 3.33) 8.1 |3.33| -03]-.--.| .64]1,232 
PrUMeS iis snore ents eae: 3 | 4.29] 9.0 |3.33] .02].....] .58/2,115 
Pomelos .............. 5 | 8.33] 28.4 |2.00] .or}.....) .17] 352 
Pomegranates......... Io 6.66| 21.7 |1.00] .02] .02] .20] 460 
Watermelons.......... tz] 7.50] 25.0 16.67] .or].....] .18] 400 
Dried Fruits: ; 
Applesin wise. vascadenccs 12 7-50] 8.9 | .83] .o1| .o2] .55]1,121 
Apricots................ Io 2.13] 7.75|1.00] .05] .o1| .63]/1,290 
Citron: ss iiisciies yeas 3 6.00}'  1.97|3.33| -02] .05]2.60/5,078 
Currants tcirs ada cece Io 4.17| 6.7 |z.00] .02] .o2] .74/1,495 
Dates csatis <sheak cuss be) 5.26] 6.9 |x.00] .02] .03] .71|1,450 
Bigstac usemesagicnrs eee 15 | 3-50] 10.2 | .67] .o3].....] so] 988 
PGATS 3232 ced tesa ewes 12 4.28] 7.4 | .83] .02] .04] .61/1,357 
Peaches ................ 15 3.06] 10.8 | .67] .03].....| .45] 926 
PRUNES 6 cae s ccntenesies Io 5-56] 8.4 |1.00] .02].....] .62]/1,190 
Raisins bic ided lance Fie) 4-35| 6.9 |1.00] .02] .03] .69/1,445 
Jams, Preserves, etc. 
Apple sicieg: 2s sietevenas 16 | 91.43] 13-8 | .62].....].....1 .39| 727 
Apple sauce............ 16 | 53.33] 40.5 | .62].....].....] .12] 245 
Apricot sauce.......... 16 | 8.42] 16.0 | .62] .o1] .or} .30] 620 
Currant siccsiec cscs csc 16 | 16.00] 11.9 | .62].....1.....[ .44] 836 
CHELEY se osetia ie oie eieorcnrae 16 | 32.00] 12.1 | .62].....].....] .44] 823 
Currant and raspberry|16 | 26.66] 12.8 | .62].....].....] .42| 781 
Blackberry ............ 16 | 20.00] 26.2 | .62].....].....] .43] 378 


323 


TABLE 56.—Continued 


Amounts for 10 Cents 


YJ 
s| ov a 
g| 2 | eB lag g 
Kind of Food Material s| &€ | 2 8 Bal § 3 B 
a! we 23 La 2 ne s a 
g] = | BR |s8] ™ a a 
alee es é 
Jams, Preserves, etc. Cts.\ Dollars | Cents. | Lbs. | Lbs. | Lbs. | Lbs. lo 
Damson..........+++554 16] 32.00] 13.0 | .62].....]..... -41| 768 
Gooseberry ............ 16| 32.00] 13.2 | .62].....]-...- -40] 752 
ADO? sais carton sudo esac’ 16] 40.00] 12.7 | .62].....].-..- -42| 780 
Figs (stewed).......... 16| 13.33] 20.4 | .62] .or]..... -25| 487 
Orange marmalade....} 16] 26.66! to0.1 | .62].....]..... -52| 983 
Pineapple marmalade.| 16] 53.33] 12.7 | .62}.....|-..-- -42| 785 
Prune sauce...........- 16} 32.00] 37.2 | .62]..... -14| 267 
Peach jam.. 16| 32.00] 13.0 | .62]..... -41| 766 
Pear jam.... 16] 53.33] 14.2 | .62}.....]-...- 38] 707 
Pineapple.............. 16] 40.00] 12.7 | .62].....].-..- -42| 781 
Plum............--6.-4. 16] 22.85] 12.6 | .62].....]..... -42| 786 
QUINCE sie eaten cance see 16] 53.33] 12.8 | .62]. 42) 778 
Strawberry............. 16| 26.67] 12.0 | .62]. -44| 833 
Tomato jam........... 16] 14.56) 13.8 | .62].....].-... -38| 722 
Raspberry ............- 16] 22.85] 12.3 | .62]. .43] 810 
Jellies: 
ADPple wcecvseeiccnanieae. 16] 53.33] 12.2 | .62].....|-.... 43} 812 
Barberry.. 16] 32.00] 13.5 | .62]..... -40] 742 
Blackberry 16} 66.67] 14.6 | .62].....].-... -37| 684 
Cherry, first qua 16] 14.56] 11.0 | .62].....]..... -48] go2 
Crab apple............. 16} 40.00] 13.1 | .62]. -4I| 764 
Currant iscccis cscs exes 16| 40.00] 13.4 | .62]. -40| 744 
Grape..............006- 16} 53-33] 13-r | .62]. -40] 745 
Guava......... ccc eee eee 16] §3.33| 10.5 | .62].....]..... +51] 952 
Huckleberry........... 16[228.57] 13.8 | .62].....].-... -39| 724 
Pineapple.............. 16] 40.00] 13.0 | .62].....J.-... -41| 771 
Peach. 16] 80.00] 13.2 | .62].....]..... 40] 755 
PHA ssnsisineiecdiers Gaseieis s xt0 16] 32.00] 13.7 | .62].....].-... +39] 732 
Orange 16| 80.00} 10.3 | .62].....]..... 39] 967 
Pear....... 16} 100.00] 12.6 | .62]. -43) 794 
Quince 16| 80.00) 13.3 | .62].....|..... -40| 750 
redacted 5 Rasa celeste e 40.00] 13.3 | .62].....]..... .40] 753 
rawberry ............ I : 13. -62 ; 
Canned Pres: ieee Wet fk aa) 138 
Apricots ............66. 16) 17.78) 47.1 | .62| .onj..... II] 211 
Oherries................ 16] 14.56] 38.9 | .62].....]..... -13| 257 
PRAMS iasteied cigs eases 16] 53-33] 45.5 | -62].....}..... II] 220 
Peaches............0... 16; 20.00] 53.2 | .62 .og| 188 
pea ass erase abate x4 16] 29.10] 28.6 | .62].....]..... 12| 350 
es: 
Apple (fall pippin) ....} 20] 37.04|140.8 | .so].....f..... .03) 71 
Blackberry ............ 20) §7.14)133.3 | .go).....|..... 04) 75 


TABLE 56.—Continued 


‘ e es Amounts for ro Cents 
el v 
3) 2. | °38 1g elie 
Kind of Food Material | 38 “Ee Ise! € ‘| 8 B 
gs) «se | 3 Fe) S| rot] S| § 
a S a oo az 2 Ss a 
ge | ge oat 2/4 
a |S an hak 5 
jumees: Cts.| Dollars| Cents | Lbs.| Lbs.| Lbs.| Lbs.| Cairs. 
Crab apple............- 20|/250.00] 200.0] .50]. 0.03] 50 
Grape (Ives seedling)..} 20] 83.33] 128.2| .50].....|..... .04| 78 
Orange (Florida navel)! 20] 34.48) 181.8] .50}. 03] 55 
GACH 5 wees cnesisaaceee 20] 90.91| 126.6] .5o}. -04) 79 
Pear (Bartlett)......... 20|222.22| 96.2] .5o}.....J..... .06| 104 
Pineapple............-- 20] 54.05) 83.3] -So]- .06| - 120 
Plum (Damson)........ 20) 46.51| 88.5} .5o) .06] 113 
Plum (wild fox).......- 20/142.85| ror.o] .5o].....]..... 05] 99 
Mixed Fruit..........-. 20|133.33| 172-4] .50]- .03| 58 
Berrtes- 
Blackberries........... 7| 5.38] 25.9|1.43]0.02|0.01|] .16] 386 
Cranberries . 5] 12.50] 23.3/2.00] or] .or| .20] 430 
Currants......... 5| 3-33| 18-9|2-00] .03].....] .26] 530 
Gooseberries.... 5] 10.64] 19.2|2-00| .or].....] .27] 520 
Huckleberries... 4| 6.67| r1.6/2.50| .02| .02} .42! 862 
Loganberries... 7| 6.42] 26.5/2.43] .02].....| .18] 377 
Raspberries. ... 7| 7.00] 27.4]1.43) .or].....] .18] 365 
Strawberries..... 4| 7.78) 40.0]1.43] .or) .or] .r0] 250 
Whortleberries ........ 4| §-71| 10.3]2.50] .o2| .08] .34) 975 
Nuts: 
Almonds..............- 15|' 1.30 9.0] .67] .08] .20] .o6|1,112 
Beechnuts.............- 10 77 5-5|1.00] .13] .34] .08]1,820 
Brazil nuts............. ts| 1.74] 9.0] .67} .06] .23] .02|1,109 
Butternuts............- 15| 3-95] 34-9] -67| .03] .o6}..... 288 
Chestnuts............. 8] 1.54 8.5|1-25| .07| .06] .44]1,181 
Cocoanuts ............. s| 1-72 3-5|2-00| .06] .51] .29}2,826 
Filberts seiccectcnc chen 15| 2.00 9-5| .67| .o5] .21] .0411,055 
Hickory nuts.......... g| 1-55 7.1|r.11| .06| .28) .04/1,404 
Lichi nuts ............ 35| 20.60] 40.0] .2g].....]...-- 13] 254 
Peanuts.........-..5+55 7 36 3.6/1.43] .28] .42| .27|2,767 
POCANS eccce cans st eos I§| 2.94 8.1] .67| .03] .25] .05|1,237 
Pine nuts.........--.-- 8] 1.27 5-4|1.25] .08] .35| .r1/1,845 
Pignolias..... J aati goes 25 -75) 8.8] .40] .14] .20] .03]1,138 
Pistachios.............- 20 Rete) 6.7) .50) .11]) .27] .08)1,498 
Walnuts............---- 15] 3.06] 17.0] .67} .03) .12| .02] 593 
Butters: 
Apple ......--... sees ee: 5) 10.00 5.6|2.00] .o1].....| .94]1,780 
Peanut...........2.00+: 20 .68 7.1] .50} .15] .2 | .og}1,412 


From ‘Further Investigations Among Fruitarians” at the 
California Agricultural Experiment Station, 1901-1902.—M. E 


Jaffa, M. S., Assistant Professor of Agriculture, University of Cali- 
132, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 


fornia. Bulletin No. 


325 


INDEX 


Aguacate, 299-300. Apple, Custard, 301. 


To prepare, 299-300. 
Akee Tree, Lo oe 
Alligator Pear, 299-300. 
Almond, Tropical, 316. 
Amatungula, 312. 
Antidesma Bunius, 316. 
Apple, The, 23-48. 
Amber, 36. 
Baked with Honey, 28. 
With Meats, 30. 
With Nuts, 28. 
Baked, and Ice-cream, 48. 
Batter Pudding, 34. 
Brandy, 47. 
Brown Betty, 35. 
Butter, 41. 
Cake, 35. 
Dried Apple Fruit, 37. 
Filling, 38. 
German, 36-37. 
Cashew or Kashew, 313. 
Catsup, 41. 
Champagne (Crabapple), 47 
Charlotte, 39. 
Cheese, 38. 
Chutney, 4o. 
Cider, 45. 
Apple Sauce, 27. 
Boiled, 45. 
Egg-nog, 46. 
elly, 39. 
TESEIVES, 43. 
Sweet, To Keep, 45. 
Vinegar, 46. 
Coddled, 40. 
Crabapple Champagne, 47. 
Jelly, 42. 
Marmalade, 44. 
Preserves, 43. 
Croquettes, 29. 
Currant and Apple Jelly, 42. 


327 : 


Apple Pie, 31. 

Frozen Apple, 48. 
Dates and Apples, 27. 
Dried, 46. 

Fruit Cake, 39. 
Dunes: Baked, 33. 

oiled, 33. 

In Cups, 33. 

Slices, 34. 

Egg-nog (Cider), 46. 
Elephant, 315. 
Filling for Cake, 38. 

Tarts, 38. 

Flip Flaps or Puffs, 32. 
Float, 38. 

Fried, 30. 

Fritters, 30. 

Frozen Apple Custard, 48. 

Snow, 48. 

Fruit Cake (Dried Apple), 


37. 
Gelatine, 38. 
German Cake, 36-37. 
Grape Juice Preserve, 43. 
Honey, Baked with, 28. 
Ice-cream and Baked 
Apples, 48. 
Ices, Water, 48. 
Indian Pudding, 35. 
Jam, 4s. 
amaica, 302. 
fener 38. 
Cider, 39. 
Crabapple, 42. 
and Currant, 42. 
and Quince, 42. 
Jelly, Apple, 41-42. 
Jonathan, 35. 
Kai, 312. 
Kashew or Cashew, 313. 
Kuchen, Apfel, 36-37. 


328 


INDEX 


Apple, Lemon and Apple Mar- 
malade, 44. 


Love, 147. 

Malay, 295. 

Mammee, 303. 

Marmalade, 44 
and Currant, 44. 
and Lemon, 44. 
and Quince, 44. 
Crabapple, 44. 

May, 146. 

Meringued, 39. 

Nuts with Baked Apples, 28. 

Old-fashioned Sauce, 27. 

Omelet, 29. 

Otaheite, 314. 

To Pack, 46. 

Pancakes, 32. 

Pickle, Sweet, 41. 

Pie, 30. 

Custard, 31. 

Pine, 238-249. 

Pomona Wine, 47. 

Pond, 301. 

Pone, 35. 

Preserves, Plain, 43. 
Cider, 43. 
Crabapple, 43. 
Grape Juice, 43. 
and Quinces, 43. 

Prunes and, 27. 

Pudding, Batter, 34. 
Brown Betty, 35. 
Indian Apple, 35. 

Puffs or Flip Bape, 32. 

Quinces (and Apples), 42- 


44. 
Raisins (and), 27. 
Roly Poly, 32. 
Rose, 295. 
Salads, 29. 
Sandwiches, 29. 
Sauce (Cider), 27. 
Old-fashioned, 27. 
Slump, 34. 
Snow, 37. 
Balls, 35. 
Frozen, 48. 
Solid, 37. 
Soup, 28. 
Spiced, 40. 


Apple, Star, 305. 
Re Stewed with Dates, 27. 
Sugar, 301. 
Sweet Pickles, 41. 
Tart, 31. 
English, 31. 
Filling, 38. 
Scotch, 32. 
Tea, 47. 
Turnovers, 32. 
Vinegar, 46. 
Water, 46. 
Ice, 42. 
Wine, Pomona, 47. 
Apricot, The, 66-80. 
So. American, 303. 
St. Domingo or Wild, 247- 
303. 
Avocado, 299-300. 


Bacury, 315. 

Hanae The, 250-2509. 
Baked, 252. 
Beer, 258. 
Blanc Mange, 255. 
Cake Cup, 254. 


Layer, 254. 
and Nut Loaf, 254. 
Dried, 259. 
Flour, 259. 
Fried, 253. 
Fritters (Crushed), 254. 
Halved, 253. 


Frozen, 257. 
Frozen Custard, 257. 
Ice, 257. 

Cream, 257. 
Jelly, 258. 
Layer Cake, 254. 
Loaf Cake, 254. 

and Nut, 254. 
Marmalade, 257. 
Mubisi, 258. 
Muenge, 258. 
Nut Strips, 255. 
Omelet, 252. 
Pancakes, 254. 
Pie, 254. 
Pudding, 256. 

With Rice, 253. 
Salad, 252. 


INDEX 


Banana, Sandwiches, 259. 
Sherbet, 257. 
Shortcake, 255. 
pinpleee Dessert, 255. 
Soufflés, Little, 256. 
Soup (Iced), 252. 
Stewed, 253. 
aNd 256. 

ipped, 256. 
Wine, 258. : 

Baobab, 314. 

Barbadoes Cherry, 295. 

Barberry (See Berries). 

Bayonet, Spanish, 317. 

Bengal Quince, 315. 

Bergamot, 223-226. 

Berries, 136-184. 

Barberries, 146, 172, 173. 
Dried, 172. i 


fem. 172. 
eserved (Cold), 172. 
4 eee 172. 
yrup of, 173. 
Bilbenics and Blueberries, 
(See Whortleberries), 140, 
163, 165. 
Blackberries, 138, 156-160. 
Brandy, 158. 
Catsup, 157. 
Charlotte Russe, 159. 
Cordial, 158. 
To Dry, 160 
Farina, 159. 
General Recipes, 160. 
am, 156. 
elly, 157. 
uffins, 159. 
Pickled, 157. 
Pie, 159. 
Preserved, 157. 
Pudding (Steamed), 


159 
Slump, 159. 
Vinegar, 157. 


Wine, 157, 158. 
Blueberries and Bilberries, 
(See Whortleberries), 140, 
163-165. 
Boxberry or Checkerberry, 


147. 
Buffalo Berry, 150. 


329 


Berries, Checkerberry, 147. 


Cherry, Winter, 147. 

Cranberry, 140, 165-167. 
Bombe, 167. 

Compote, 166. 

Cream Frozen, 167. 

elly, 166. 
udding, 167. 
Roly Poly (in General 
Directions), 167. 

Sauce, 165. 

Snow, 166. 

Sponge, 166. 

Syrup, 166. 

Tart, 166. 

Uncooked, To Keep, 

167. 

Currant, 144, 173-179. 
Bar-le-Duc (Jam), 174. 
Brandy, 178. 

Catsup, 175. 

Colouring, 179. 

Cup, 176. 

Dried, 178. 

Ice, 176. 

Ice Cream, 176. 

Jam (Bar-le-Duc), 174. 
Black, 175. 
Raisin, 175. 

Red, 174-179. 
White, with es 

berries, 180. 

Jelly se ae 173. 


Pudding (Red), 176. 

Punch, 178. 

Salads (In), 179. 

Sherbet, 176. 

Shortcake, 175. 

Shrub, 176. 

Spiced, 175. 

Uncooked, 179. 
Vinegar, 178. 
Wines, 177. 

Elderberries, 142-144, 169- 


172. 
Ale Flavoured with, 171 
Blossom Wine, 170. 
Brandy, 170. 
Catsup, 171. 


INDEX 


Berries, Elderberries, Dried, 172. 


Flower Water, 172. 

elly, 171. 

unket, 171. 
Ointment, 172. 
Pancakes, 171. 
Rob of, 169. 
Syrup of, 169. 
Tarts, 171. 
Water (Elder Flower), 

172. 
Wine, 170. 
(Spiced), 170. 
Wine Blossom, 170. 
Gooseberries, 144, 179, 184. 

Barbadoes, 311. 
Catsup, 182. 
Champagne, 183. 
Chips, 182. 
Chutney, 182. 
Coromandel, 313. 
Fool, 181-182. 

am, 179. 
J Bee Red Currant, 


179. 
and White Cur- 
rant, 180. 
Jelly, 179. 
Otaheite, 311. 
Peruvian, 147. 
Pie, 180. 
Preserved Whole, 180. 
Pudding, Boiled, 181. 
Sauce for Lamb, 182. 
Spanish, 311. 
‘art, 180-181. 
Vinegar, 183. 
Water Ice, 184. 
Wine, 183. 
Hackberry, 148. 
Haws, 148. 
Huckleberries (See Whor- 
tleberries). 
ees Berry, 149. 
ogan Berry, 169. 
Love Apple, 147. 
May Apple, 146. 
Mountain Ash, 149. 
Mulberries, 141, 168, 169. 
Brandy, 169. 
General Directions,168. 


Berries, Mulberries, Jam, 168. 


elly, 168. 
armalade, 168. 
Wine, 169. 
Nettle Tree (See Hackberry) 
Partridge Berry, 147. 
Raspberries, 139, 160-163. 
Bar-le-Duc (Jam), 174. 
Black, Pudding, 161. 
Catsup, 163. 
Cordial, 161. 
Frozen, 161. 
Ice, 161. 
Jam, 160, 
Jelly, 161. 
Puddings, Red and 
Black, 161. 
Red Raspberry Pud- 
ding, 161. 
Rose Sandwiches, 160. 
Royal, 161. 
Sandwiches, 160. 
Shrub, 161. 
Without Sugar, 162. 
Soup, 4. 
Vinegar, 161. 
Wine, 163. 
Rowan, 149. 
Service Berry, 149. 
Sorb, 149. 
Strawberries, 136, 150, 
156. 
Batter Cups, r5r. 
Brandy, 156. 
Custard or Float, 152. 
Dry, To, 124. 
Dumplings, 152. 
Escalloped, 152. 
Float or Custard, 152. 
Fritters (See the 
Apple), 30. 
Frozen, 153. 
Gelatine (See Intro- 
ductory Recipes), 16. 
Ice, 153. 
Cream, 153. 
Jam, 154. 
felly, 155. 
reserves, 153. 
Pyramid, 152. 
Sauce, 151. 


INDEX 


Berries, Strawberries, Seal, To, 


without oe 54. 
Served Whole, 150, 
Sherbet, 153. 
Shortcakes, 
Shrub, 3155. 
Soufflé (See Introduc- 


150. 


331 


Carissa arduina, 312. 
carandas, 312. 

Cashew Apple or Nut, 313. 

Cayenne Cherry, 295. 

Ceriman, 311. 

Checkerberry (See Berries). 

Cherimoya, or Chiramoya, 301. 


tory Recipes), 18, 19. 


Spiced, 154. 
Tart, 152. 
Vinegar, 156. 
Whips, 153. 
Wine, 155. 


and Currant Wine, 


Sugar Berry (See 
berry), 148. 
Whortleberries, 

165. 


140, 


177. 


Hack- 


163- 


Blueberry Bread, 164. 
Cake, Huckleberry, 163 


Canned, 165. 
Catsup, 165. 
Ta Dry, 165. 


Huckleberry Cake, 163. 


Mush, 164. 

Old-fashioned 
ding, 163. 

Pie, 164. 

Slump, 164. 

Vinegar, 165. 

Wine, 165. 

Wintergreen, 147. 


Pud- 


Bilberry(SeeWhortleberry), 140 


Bilimbi, 313. 

Blackberry (See Berries), 
136-184. 

Blueberry (See 
136-184. 

Boxberry, 147. 

Bread Fruit, 310. 

Bullock’s Heart, 301. 


Berries), 


Caladium esculenta, 316. 

Canteloupes (See Melons), 
125-135. 

Capuassa, 315. 

Carambola, 313. 

Carissa acuminata, 312. 


. 


Cherry, The, 81-92. 


Barbadoes, 295. 
Bavarian Cream, 84. 


Bounce, go. 
Brandied, 88. 
Brandy, 8 


Bread Budding. 84. 

Cake Icing, 85. 

Candied, gr. 

Canned, 88. 

Catsup, 88. 

Cayenne, 295. 

Cordial, 89. 

Cream, 84. 

Créme de Maraschino, 61. 
Domestic Kirschwasser, 89. 
Dried, go, 91. 

Float, 84. 

Four Fruit Jelly, 86. 
Frosted, 85. 

Frozen, 85. 

German Sauce, 84. 
Ground, 147. 

Ice, 85. 


Iced Maraschino-ade, 92. 
Icing, Cake, 85. 
am, 86-87. 

fay. 86. 

with Currants, 86. 
x Raspberry, 86. 

Four Fruit, 86. 

Juice Preserved, go. 

Kirschwasser, Domestic, 89. 

Maraschino Jelly, 92. 
Recipes, 92. ° 

Pickled, Cooked, 88. 
Uncooked, 88. 

Pie, 84. 

Preserved, 87. 
with Currant, 87. 
with Lemon, 87. 
Juice, go. 


332 


Cherry, Preserved, Syrup, 90. 


Pudding, 84. 
Bread, 84. 
Punch, 89. 
Rum (Wild Cherry), go. 
Salads, 83. 
Sandwiches, 83. 


Sauce (German Pudding) 


84. 
Shrub, go. 
Soup, 83. 
Spanish, 295. 
Surinam, 295. 
Syrup (Preserved), go. 
Uncooked Pudding, 84. 
Vinegar (for Salads), 


oO. 
for Cookery and Rable, 


Oo. 
Wild Chey Rum, go. 
Winter, 147. 
With Ice Cream, 85. 
Chilian Myrtle, 315. 


Chiramoya or Cherimoya, 301. 


Citrange, 229, 230. 

Citron, 223-227. 
Brine (In), 225. 
Candied, 224. 
Dried with Sugar, 223. 
Ice and Syrup, 225. 
Preserve, 225. 


Syrup, 225. 
Melon See Melons). 


Cocco Root, 316, 317. 
Cocoa Plum, 305. 
Cocoanut (Palm), 271-282. 
Cakes, 281. 
Cream Candy, 282. 
Cups, 280. 
Curry, 279. 
Drops, 281. 
Fritters (Indian), 279. 
Macaroons, 281. 
Milk for Cookery, 278. 
Mousse (Frozen), 282. 
Omelet, 279. 


Orange Flowers and, 280. 


Pastel de Coco, 281. 
Salad, 278. 
Sherried, 280. 
Soup, 278. 

Toast, 280. 


INDEX 


Coromande Gooseberry, 313. 
Cranberry (See Berries). 
Currant (See Berries). 
Custard Apple, 301. 


Date, The, (Palm), 271-278. 
With Bread-fruit, 274. 
Breakfast Food, 274. 
Cake (Layer), 276. 
Loaf, 276. 
Macaroons, 276. 
Fluff Duff, 275. 
Foam, 275 
Fruit Bread, 274. 
Fudge, 277. 
Gems, 274. 
Ice, 277. 
Cream, 277. 
Jam, 275. 
Layer Cake, 276. 
Loaf Cake, 276. 
Macaroons, 276. 
Pie, 276. 
Salad, 278. 
Sandwiches, 274. 
Stewed, 274. 
Stuffed, 277. 
Dilly, Wild, 305. 
Durian, 314. 


Egg Fruit, 305. 
Bidertcr) See Berries). 
Elephant Apple, 315. 
Emblic Myrobolan, 314. 
Eugenia, 295. 


Fig, 260-270. 
Baked, 262. 
Blanc Mange, 265. 
Bread Pudding, 265. 
Cake (Layer), 264. 


oaf, 263. 

Cakes (Dried), 268. 
Little, 263. 

Candied, 266. 
Candy, 266. 
Crystallised, 266. 
Dry (To), 268. 
Eat (To), 261. 
Filling (Cake), 264. 
Freshen (To), 262. 


INDEX 


Fig, Ice, 266. 
Cream, 265. 
Indian (See Prickly Pear), 


Preserved, 267. 

Pudding, 264. 
Bread, 265. 
Suet, 264. 

Snow, 264. 

Stewed, 262. 

Stuffed, 263. 

Suet Pudding, 264. 
Food Values, Tables of, 320. 
Four Fruit Jelly, 86. 
Frosted Fruit (Introductory 

Recipes), 22. 


Ginep, 311. 
Genipa Americana, 296. 
Ginger Plant or Root, 317, 318. 

Candied, 318. 

Preserved, 317. 

Vinegar, 318. 

Wine, 318. 
Gooseberry (See Berries). 
Granadilla, 308. 

Grape, The, 108-121. 

Apples and Raisins, 


II9g. 
Bottled Grapes, 111. 
Brandied, 118. 

Butter, 115. 

Cake (Plum), 120. 

Canned, 113. 

Catawba Wine, 114. 
Catsup, 115. 

Chutney, 115. 

Cordial, 115. 

Crabapple and Grape Jelly, 


42. 
Currant Loaf, 121. 
Elderberry and Grape Jelly, 


117. 

English Plum Cake, 120. 
Pudding, 121. 

Farina, 118. 


333 


Grape, Fruits Preserved in Juice, 
113. 

Green Grapes, Pickled, 116. 

Home-made Tokay, 113. 

Ice-water, 119. 

Cream, 119. 

Jams, Plain, 117. 
Raisin-currant, 119. 
Raisin (Grape ‘and 

Pear), 118. 
Jelly, Crabapple and Wild 
Crepes, 116. 
Elderberry and Grape, 


117. 
Green Grape, 117. 
Ripe Grape, 117. 
Wild Grape with Crab- 
apple, 116. 
piced, 116. 
uice, 113. © 
ickle, Green Grape, 116. 
Sweet Grape, 116, 
Plum Cake, English, 120. 
Pudding, raz. 
Preserve, Uncooked, 
(In Ashes, Bottled, 
Cotton, Sand, Sawdust, 
Wax), 111. 
To, Fruits in Grape 
Juice, 113. 
Pudding, Raisin, Rice, 120. 
Punch, Hot, 115. 
Raisin and Currant Sauce, 
119. 
Raisins, 118. 
Raisins and Rice, 120. 
Raisin, Rice Pudding, 120. 
Raisins, Sherry of, 114. 
Stewed with Apples, 
27. 
Wine, 114. 
Sandwiches, 118. 
Sauce, Raisin and Currant, 
119. 
Sea oe Shore, 311. 
Sherbet, 1109. 
Shore (or Sea), 311. 
Snow, 119. 
Soup, 118. 
Spiced, 116. 
Tokay, Home-made, 113. 


INDEX 


Grape, Uncooked, Preserved, 


(In) Ashes, 111. 
Bottled, 1121. 
Cotton, 111. 
Sand, 111. 
Sawdust, 111. 
(With) Wax, 111. 
Unfermented Juice, 112. 
Vinegar, 114. 
Water Ice, r19. 
Wild Grape Jelly, 116. 
Wine, 113. 
Catawba, 114. 
Raisin, 114. 
Sherry or Raisin, 114. 
Tokay, 113. 


Grape-fruit or Pomelo, 229—237. 


(For) Breakfast, 231. 
Candied, Strips, 236. 
(And) Clams, 232. 
Cocktail, 232. 

Drops, 234. 

(With) Grapes, 232. 
Frozen, 235. 

Ice, 235. 

Jelly, 234. 

(And) Limeade, 236. 
(For) Luncheon, 231. 
Marmalade, 233. 


General Remarks, 234. 


Preserve, 235. 
Pyramid (Pink), 232. 
Rinds, 236. 

Salads, 233. 

Sherbet, 235. 

Syrup, 235. 

Wine, 235. 


Ground Cherry, 147. 
Guava, 287-294. 


Brandy, 293. 
Brown Betty, 289. 
Cattley Jelly, 291. 
Catsup, 292. 
Chutney, 293. 
Cobbler, 289. 
Custard, 290. 
Desserts (General); 290. 
Dumplings, 289. 
Fritters, 289. 
Jelly, 290. 
Cattley, 291. 


Guava, Macaroni (With), 280. 
Marmalade, 292. 
Paste, 291. 

Pickles, 292. 
Preserves, 292. 
Roly Poly, 290. 
Salad, 288. 
Sauce, 288. 
Serve Uncooked, 288. 
Shortcake, 289. 
Shrub, 293. 
Bienes 288. 
YIUp, 293. 
Uneookced 288. 
inegar, 293. 
Wine, waa. 


Hackberry, 148. 
Haws, 148. 
Hog Plum, 314. 
Hovenia Dadees, 316. 
Huckleberry (See Berries). 


Indian Fig (See Prickly Pear), 
308 


Introductory Recipes, 3-22. 
Batter for Fruit Fritters, 14. 
Pudding, 14. 
Bavarian Cream, 16. 
Biscuit Dough, 8. 
Drop, 9. 
Blanc Mange, 15. 
Bread for Fruit Toast, 13. 
Brod, German Fruit, 13. 
Butter Fruit, r2. 
Cake, Eggless, ro. 
Fruit (Black), 12. 
(General Remarks), 11. 


One Egg, ro. 

One, Two, Three, 11. 

Shore sare 9. 16) 
onge, (Simple), 11. 

(White), It. . 


Can (To) Fruit, 19. 
Candy, Clear, 22. 

Cream, 21. 
Cornstarch, Blanc Mange, 


15. 
Custard, Baked, 14. 
Boiled, 14. 
Float, 14, 15. 


INDEX 


Introductor 
Custard, Frozen, 17. 
Dressings, Salad, 6-8. 


Cooked Mayonnaise, 7. 


Cream, 7. 

Cream Whipped, 7. 
Egg, Whipped, 8. 
French, 6. 


Mayonnaise (Simple),6. 


hite, 7. 


Olive Oil and Cream, 7. 


Sour Cream, 8. 


Wao Cream, 7. 
Ze, 8. 


White or Cream, 7. 

Float, 14-15. 

Frost Fruit (To), 22. 

Gelatine, 16. 

Granites, 17-18. 

Ice Cream, 17. 

Ices, 16. 

Icing, Boiled, 12,. 

Soft, 12. 
Water, 12. 

Italian Cream, 16. 
unket Fruit, 18. 
ozenges, Fruit, 21. 

Mull (To) Wine, 21. 

Omelet, 19. 

Pastry, Bread-Dough, 10. 
Cream (With), 9. 
Oatmeal, 9. 

Potato, 9. 


Preserve Fruit (To), 19. 
Shortening (With), ro. 


Sago (See Tapioca), 15. 
Salads, 5. 
Dressings, 6-8. 
Scones, 9. 
Sherbets, 17. 
Shortcake, Plain, 9. 
Soufflés, Cooked, 19. 
Simple, 18. 
Soups, Fruit, 3. 
Red Raspberry, 4. 
Swedish Fruit, 4. 
Spanish Cream, 16. 
Sponge (Gelatine), 16. 
Syrups, Fruit, 21. 
Tapioca or Sago, 15. 
Wine, To Mull, 21. 


Recipes—Cont'd. 


335 
Jamaica Apple, 245. 
‘Plum, 255. 
Sorrel, 257. 
Jambosade or Tambvoanle: (See 


Rose Apple), 295. 

Japan Persimmon, 283-286. 
Dry (To), 285. 
Jelly, 285. 
Marmalade, 285. 
Pudding,. 285. 
Uncooked, 284. 

Japan Plum (See 

63-64. 

Java Plum, 295. 

Jujube, 316. 

June Berry, 149. 


Loquat), 


Kai Apple. 3r2. 
Kaki (See Japan Persimmon), 
283-286. 
Kashew Apple, 313. 
Kumquat, 223-228. 
Au Naturel, 226. 
Candied, 227. 
Drinks (In) ‘‘Au Naturel,’”’ 
226, 
Frozen, 228. 
Gelatine, 228. 
Jam, 227. 
Jelly, 227. 
Marmalade, 227. 
Preserve, 227. 


Lemon, The, 185-200. 
Lemonades, 187-189. 
Egg (Simple), 188. 
(With Sherry), 189. 
Flaxseed, 187. 
Italian, 189. 
Orange, 189. 
Simple or ‘‘Squash,” 
188. 
Baked, for Colds, 187. 
Boiled Pudding, 196. 
Cakes, Layer, Custard, 197. 
Loaf, 197. 
Candied Lemon Peel, 200. 
Catsup, 198. 
Cheese, 194. 
Cordial, 187. 
Crackers, 198. 


336 


Lemon, Cream Pie, 194. 
Cure for Malaria, 186. 
Custard, Frozen, 199. 
Simple, 193. 
Drinks (In), 188. 
Dumplings, 196. 
Egg Lemonades, 188, 189. 
Eggiess Pie, 194. 
Flaxseed with, 187. 
Frozen Custard, 199. 
Ginger Beer, 189. 
For Headache, 187. 
Hoarseness, 187. 
Honey, 193. 
Ice, 199. 
Cream, 199. 
Italian Cure for Malaria, 
186. 
Lemonade, 189. 
Jelly, 192. 
Juice and Tea, 188. 
Layer Cake, 197. 
Lemonades, 187-189. 
Loaf, 197. 
Maitre d' Hétel Sauce, 199. 
Marmalade, 191. 
Orangeade, 189. 
Peel (Candied), 200. 
Pickles, 193. 
Pie, Cream, Custard, 194. 
Eggless, 194. 
Preserves, 191. 
Lemon Rind, rot. 
Pudding (Boiled), 196. 
Eggless, 194. 
Rice, 195. 
Sauce, 197. 
Rice Pudding, 195. 
Rind Preserved, 191. 
Sago, 195. 
Sandwiches, 198. 
Sauce (Maitre d’Hétel), 199. 
Pudding, 197. 
Sherbet, 199. 
Snaps, 198. 
Sponge, 195. 
Squash, 188. 
Sugar, for Flavouring, ror. 
Pye cite Lemon), 190. 
ithout Lemon, 190. 
Tapioca, 195. 


INDEX 


Lemon, Tea with Lemon Juice, 
188. 

Tincture of Lemon, 190. 

Vine, 311. 

Whey, 190. 

Zest, 191. 

Lime, The, 229-237. 

Ice, 237. 

Juice, Fresh, 236. 

in Syrup, 236. 

Pickled, 237. 

Preserved, 237. 

Sherbet, 237. 

Spanish, 311. 

Zest, 237. 
Lime-berry, 223-226. 
Litchi or Leechee, 314. 
Longan Tree, 314. 
Loquat, 63-65. 

Jam, 64. 

jelly, 64. 

armalade, 64. 

Stewed, 64. 
Love Apple, 147. 


Malay Apple, 205. 
Mammee Apple, 303. 
Mammee Sapota, 305. 
Mango, 307. 
Mangosteen, 303. 
Mangrove, 313. 
Marmalade Box, 296. 
Maritzgula, 312. 
May Apple, 146. 
May Pop (See Granadilla), 308. 
Medilar, 63. 
Melons, 125-135. 
Candied Citron Melon, 133. 
Canteloupe Ice, 130. 
To Serve Simply, 127. 
Oatsup, Watermelon, 134. 
Citron Melon in Jelly, 135. 
Melon Sauce, 134. 
Curried Melons, 135. 
(for) Salads, 135. 
(as) Vegetables, 134. 
General Directions, 135. 
Ice Rings, 129. 
Mangoes, 132. 
Marmalade, 131. 
Mousse, 130. 


INDEX 


Melons, Nutmeg Baskets, 128 
Compote, 130. 
Tart, 130. 
Pie Melon Sauce, 134. 
Tart, 134. 
Pickles, 131-132. 
Mangoes, 132, 
Ripe Muskmelons, 131. 
Small Melon, 131. 
Watermelon, 133. 
Preserved Citron Melon, 133. 
Roll, 129. 
Salads, 134. 
Sauce, Citron, or Pie Melon, 


134. 
To Serve Canteloupes, 127. 
Watermelons, 127. 
Spiced Melons, 132. 
Surprise, 129. 
Tart, Nutmeg, 130. 
Vegetables, Melons: as, 134. 
Watermelons, 127. 
Watermelon Catsup, 134.. 
Half Frozen, 129. 
Honey, 134. 
Pickles, 133. 
Sherbet, 130. 
Melon Pear or Shrub, 312. 
Monkey’s Bread, 314. 
Monstera deliciosa, 311. 
Mountain Ash, 149. 
Mountain Plum, 304. 
Mulberries (See Berries), 
Muskmelon (See Melons), 
Myrobolan Emblic, 314. 


Nut, Cashew or Kashew, 313. 


Olive, The, 122—124. 

Orange, Mandarin (See Sweet 
Orange), 211-222. 

Orange, Seville, 201-210. 

Brandy, 208. 

Candied Flowers, 209. 
Domestic Curacoa, 208. 
Flowers, Candied, 209. 

Ice, 210. 

Icing, 210. 
Preserved, 208. 
in Syrup, 209. 
Water, 210. 


337 


Orange Ice (Orange Flower), 210. 
cing, Orange Flower, 210. 
jelly, Seville Orange, 207. 
armalade, 206,207. 
Florida, 206. 
Lemon and Orange, 207. 
Scotch, 206. 
Preserved Orange Flow- 
ers, 208, 209. 
in Syrup, 
Seville Orange, 207. 
Scotch Orange Marmalade, 
206. 
Water, Orange Flower, 210. 
Wine, Seville, 208. 
Orange, The Sweet, 211-222. 
Baked Pudding, 215. 
Cake, 214-216 
Cheese, 215. 
Fruit, 216. 
Layer, 216. 
Loaf, 216. 
Short, 214. 
Cheesecake, 215. 
Chips, 219. 
Cocoanut, with, 212. 
Cookies, 217. 
Cream of, 222. 
Custard, 217. 
or Orange Soufflé, 217. 
Delight, 218. 


. Filling (for Pie), 215. 


Flower (Orange) Soufflé,213. 
Fool, 217. 
Fritters, 214. 
Frozen, (Orange), 219. 
Gelatine, 218. 
Ice, 218. 
Cream, 219. 
Marmalade, 219. 
Jelly, 221. 
Layer Cake, 216. 
Loaf Cake, 216. 
Macaroons, 216. 
cia ae) 220. 
ce, 219. 
“Pudding, 215. 
Omelet, 213. 
Orangeade, 222. 
Pie (Filling), 215. 
(Cheese), 215. = 


338 INDEX 


Orange, Preserve, 221. 


Pudding, Marmalade, 215. 


Rice, 218. 
Suet, 214. 
Rice and Oranges, 213. 
Sago, 218. 
Salads, 212. 
Sauce, 215. 
Sherbet, 218. 
Sherried Tangerine, 212. 
Shortcake, 214. 
Soufflé or Custard, 217. 
Soufflé, Orange Flower, 213. 
Sponge, 218. 
Suet Pudding, 214. 
Syrup, 222. 
Tangerine Sherried,-212. 
Tapioca, 218. 
Vinegar, 222. 
Wine, 222. 
Orange-tangerine (See Sweet 
Orange), 211-222. 
Otaheite Apple, 314. 
Gooseberry, 311. 
Plum, 314. 


Palm, Cocoanut, 271-282. 

Date, 271-282. 

Peach, 315. 

Papaw, Northern, 106. 

Tarts, 106. 

Tropical, 307. 
Partridge Berry, 147. 
Peach, The, 66-80. 

Apricot or Peach Wine, 79. 

Baked Peaches, 69. 

Betty, 72. 

Brandied, 77. 

Brandy, Commercial, 80. 

Domestic, 80. 

Bread Pudding, 72. 

Butter, 78. 

Cake, Dutch, 69. 

Canned Peaches, -76. 

Catsup Peaches, 78. 

Chutney, 78. 

Cobbler, 70. 

Commercial Brandy, 80. 

Cream of Peach Sherbet, 


4. 
Créme de Noyau, 8o. 


Peach, Custard Pudding, 71. 


Domestic Brandy, 80. ~ 
Dried, 75. 
Dutch Fruit Moons, 69. 
Extract of Nectarine, 79. 
Peach, 
Foam-peach, or Snow, 74. 
Fritters, 70. 
Frozen, 74. 
Fruit Moons (Dutch), 69. 
Halved, 68. 
Ice, 74. 
Cream, 74. 
Jam (Cooked), 75, 
Uncooked, 75. 
Jelly, 76. ' 
Kisses, 72. 
Leather, 75. 
Mangoes, 77. 
Marmalade, 76. 
Moons (Dutch Fruit), 69. 
Mousse, 73. 
Palm, 315. 
Pan Dowdy, 71. 
Pickled Peaches or Apricots, 
77: 
Pie, 71. 
‘Spider, 71. 
Pone or Suet Pudding, 69. 
Pudding, Bread, 72. 
Custard, 71. 
Plain, 71. 
Sherried, 72. 
Steamed, 72. 
Suet Pudding or Pone, 
69. 
Russe, 7, 
Salads, 68. 
Sauce Preserved, 75. 
Sherbert (Cream of), 74. 
Sherried (Pudding), 72. 
Shortcake, 69. 
Snow, 74. 
Soufflé, 73. 
Soup and Prune, 68. 
Hot, 68. 
ee 68. 
Spiced, 77. 
Spider Pie, 71. 
Steamed Pudding, 72. 
Stewed Peaches, 69. 


339 


‘Peach, Suet Pudding or Pone,69. Pineapple, Custard, Frozen, 244. 


Tart, 70. 
Tartlets, 70. 
Vinegar, 80. 


Wine, Peach or Apricot, 79. 


Pear, The, 49-56. 
Baked, 51. 
Meringued, 51. 
Preserved, 54. 
Stuffed, 51. 
Brandied, 53. 
Bread Pudding, 51. 
Chips, 55. 
Compote, 52. 
Dry, To, 50. 
Ices, 52. 
Jelly, 55. 
Marmalade, 54. 
eringued, 51. 
ack (To), 50. 


Breserver’ (Baked), 54. 
Plain, 53. 
With Ginger, 54. 
Grape Juice, 53. 
Lemon, 54. 
Perry, 53- 

Pyramid of, 51. 


Raisinée (See Grapes), 55. 


Sauce, 55. 
Stewed, 51. 
Trifle, 52. 
Uncooked, 50. 
Vinegar, 56. 

Pear, Alligator, 299-300. 
Melon, 312. 
Prickly, 308. 
Strawberry, 312. 


Persimmon, Japanese, 283-286. 


Northern, 107. 
Pineapple, The, 238-249. 
Pineappleade, 247. 

Beer, 248. 


Breakfast Fruit, (As), 239. 


Cake, 241. 


Canned (With Sugar), 246. 
(Without Sugar), 246. 


Champagne, 248. 
Chips, 247. 
Compote, 242. 


Fritters, 241. 
Frozen, 244. 
Custard, 244. 
Ice, 243. 
Cream, 244. 
In Shell, 240. 
Jam, 245. 
Jelly, 244, 245. 
Lemon or Limeade aiid, 247. 
Luncheon Dish, Simple, 


239. 

Marmalade, 245. 

Mousse, 243. 

Muffins, 241. 

Omelet, 239. 

Pare, Properly, To, 239. 

Preserve, Cooked, 246. 
Uncooked, 246. 

Pie or Pudding Filling, 242. 

Punch, 247. 

Salad, 240. 

Shell (In), 240. 

Sherbet, 243. 

Soufflé, 241. 

Sponge, 242. 

Syrup, 247. 

Tapioca, 242. 

Vinegar, 248. 


Plum, The, 93-105. 


Brandied Plums, 99. 
Brandy, roo. 
Butter, 97. 

Cake, ror. 


Catsup, 97. 
Wild. O7-  « 


Cocoa Plum, 305. 

Dried, (Whole), 98. 
(With Sugar), 98. 
Domestic Kirschwasser, 89. 

Duff, roo. 
General Directions, 101. 
Hog, 314. 
Ices, ror. 
Jam, Apricot and Plum, 96. 
Damson, 96. 
Lemon and Plum, 96. 
amaica, 314. 
apan (See Loquat), 63, 64. 
ava, 295. 
elly, 96. 


340 


Plum, Kirschwasser (Domestic), 
89. 
Leather, 98. 
Marmalade, Crabapple and, 


95. 
Sweet, 95. 
Wild, 95. 
Mountain, 304. 
Otaheite, 314. 
Paste, 98. 
Pickled, 99. 
Preserved, 98. 
Pudding, ror. 
Salad, 95. 
Soup, 95. 
Spiced, 97. 
Trifle, 100. 
Vinegar, roo. 
Wild Plum Catsup, 97. 
Marmalade, 95. 
Wine, 99. 
Pomegranate, 297, 298. 
Ice, 298. 
Jam, 298. 
Jelly, 298. 
Syrup, 2098. 
Wine, 298. 
Pomelo (See Grape-fruit), 229- 


23 37 ‘ 
Pon pels gol. 
Prickly Pear, 308. 
Prune, The, 101-105. 
Betty, 1o2. 
Bread or Pone, 102. 

Pudding, rox. 
Cake, 103. 

Short, 103. 
Croquettes, ro2. 
Dumplings, roz. 
Gelatine, 104. 
General Directions, 105. 


Ices, 105. 

Individual Puddings, ros. 

Pone or Prune Bread, 
102. 


Pudding-bread, 102. 
Individual, ros. 
Suet, 102. 

Roll, 103. 

Sauce (‘‘Pruin’’), ros. 

Sherried Prunes, 103. 


INDEX 


Shortcake, 103. 
Snow, 105. 

Prune, Soufflé, 104. 
Soup, ror. 
Spiced Prunes, 102. 
Sponge, 104. 
Stuffed, ro2. 
Tart, 103. 


uince, The, 57-62. 
9 Baked, ee 
Candied Slices, 60. 
Canned, 59. 
Cider, 57. 
Cordial, 60. 
Dried, 60. 
General Directions, 62. 
Honey, 61. 
Ices, 61. 
elly, 58. 
uice, Preserved, 60. 
Marmalades, 58, 59. 
Preserved, 50. 
Juice, 60. 
Syrup, 60. 
Salads, 62. 
Sauce, 61. 
Steamed, 61. 
Syrup, Preserved, 60. 
Tarts, 61. 
Quince, Bengal, 315. 


Raspberry (See Berries). 
Rose Apple, 295. 

Roselle Berry, 316. 
Rowan Tree, 149. 


Sapota, Mammee, 305. 
hite, 305. 
Sapodilla, 395- 
Sea Grape (Shore Grape), 311. 
Service Berry, 149. 
Shadberry, 149. 
Shaddock, 229. 
Shore Grape (Sea Grape), 311. 


Sop, Sour, 3or. 
Sop, Sweet, 3or. 
Sorb, 149. 


Sorrel, Jamaica, 316. 
Sour Sop, 301. | 
South American Apricot, 303. 


INDEX 341 


Spanish Bayonet, 317 
Cherry, 296. 
Goose, 311. 
Lime, 311. 

Star Apple, 305. 

St. Domingo Apricot, 303. 

Strawberry (See Berries). 

Pear, 312. 
‘Sugar Apple, jor. 


Tables of Food Values, 319—324. 
Weights and Measures, xix. 


Tamarind, 309. 
Tangelo, 229,330. 
Ti-es, 305. 


Tomato Strawberry, 147. 

Tree Tomato, 313. 

Trifoliate Orange, 223-226. 

Tropical Almond, 316. 
Papaw, 307. 


Voa-vanga, 315. 


Watermelon, 125-135. 

Weights and Measures, Tables 
of, xix. 

White Sapota, 305. 

Whortleberry (See Berries). 

Winter Cherry, 147. 

Wintergreen, 147. 


Mes bitee pm e\e) " 
fern isie) tek ja : 


Linen jiteite iy 
tye itsisiens|s 


cae ey 
juiehe didess desta 


bet sh 
Sie idee 


eal toiaaic) ie 
pubes 


Sb 
dpi weiss 
ie aeraey 


mopagh gas tata ieee 
Shei lesaie ies 
slcahiear 


erhite 
ast 


permet 
piel ieir seiceiei 


pede papelnte 


i idheat 
“shy rvigiats being riejece) 


aoa aie 


sap eryednedanhd yan 
nee seh aesa eitines 


: sp realgl pets 


HY Es 
reisiesre icy) 


joinipiels 
age RAN it 
rete 


‘i ides 

tS ratte ; 
phe heedky britieistelohe ait 
siete ile 


sob stee 


