.<m,. .mat. ,<ss!». .i«». «iik jsk*. «mi.»tmkiMtK, jsfc m^ ,««* ssws aMfe <d»kM 




COOEINa SIEECTIONS. 

BOILED. 

Soak over night, and boil in a double Itettle 
with slightly salt water.' 

Eat from a bowl with milk, or from a plate with 
butter and sugar. 

BAKED. 

One cupful boiled hominy, one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of butter, teaspoonful of sugar, a little 
salt and ihree eggs. Eggs must be beaten very 
light, yolks and whites separately. Soften with 
about two cupfuls of milk. Bake in a deep but- 
tered dish. 

FRIED. 

Cut cold boiled hominy in slices and fry in 
lard or drippings. 

CROQUETTES. 

One cupful boiled hominy, one teaspoonful of 
butter. Stir hard. Moisten with milk and beat 
to a light paste. Add sugar and a well beaten 
egg. Shape into balls, dipl into fine cracker 
crumbs and fry in lard. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Two cupfuls boiled hominy, one cup flour, one 
quart of milk, three eggs, one tfeaspoonful salt, 
lieat the hominy free from lumps. Add milk, 
salt, flour, and last eggs. Stir well before bak- 
ing. 

MUFFINS. 

Two cupfiils boiled hominy, three eggsy three 
cupfuls sour milk, half cupful' butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls salt, two teaspoonfuls sugar, one Clip 
flour, one teaspoonful soda. Beat perfectly 
smooth before baking. 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








,r^- . - 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http ://www. arch i ve . o rg/detai Is/cu31 924085803876 



col 



Mi 

oi 

OOi 



00= 



CDs 
05 = 



" The very best, the most sensible, the most practical, the most honest 
book on this matter of getting up good dinners, and living in a decent, 
Christian way, that has yet found its way in our household."— Watchman 
UAo Rkflectoh. 

COM MON SENSE 

IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 
A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL HOUSEWIFERY. 

By MARION HARI.AND. 



Ket7 Edition. One volume, 12mo, cloth, . . Price, $1.75 
Kitchen Edition, in Oil-Cloth Covers, at same price. 



TAis edition is printed from new electrotype plates and hound in 
a new pattern cloth binding, and also in the favorite ^'' Kite fun 
Edition'''' style. 

The popularity of this book has increased steadily for the last ten years, 
and the sale has reached the extraordinary number of 
Over 100,000 Copies. 

Many housekeepers will gladly welcome their old friend in a new dress, 
and renew their copies worn by constant use ; or, as the author herself 
expresses it, " I hope my fellow-workers will find their old kitchen com- 
panion in fresh dress, yet more serviceable than before, and that their 
daughters may, at the close of a second decade, demand new stereotype 
plates for still another and like this a progressive edition." 

With the new edition of " Common Hense" the Publishers will issue, 
in uniform style: 

THE DINNER YEAR BOOK. 

One volume, lamo, 720 pp., cloth, or " Kitchen Edition,*' without 
colored plates $i-75< 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND TEA, 

One volume, iimo. Cloth, or " Kitchen Edition," $i.7S. 

Note. — The Dinner Year Book, ivith six colored plates^ illustraiing^ iwenty~ 
eight subjects, handsomely bound in cloth, will be continued in print at the regular 
^ice, $2.25. 

*4f* For sale ty all booksellers, or sent, post-paid, upon receipt oj 
trice, by 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, Publishers, 

743 AND 745 Broadway, New Youk. 



A. N3B"W EDITION- 

Uniform with the re-issue of "Common Sense in the Household' 



THE DINNER YEAR-BOOK. 

By MARION HARLAND, 

Author of "Common Sense in the Household," "Breakfast, 
Luncheon, and Tea," etc., etc. 



One vol., 12mo, 720 pages, Price, $1.76 

Kitchen Edition in Oil-Cloth Covers at same Price, 



The Dinner Year-Book is, in fts name, happily descriptive of its purposes and char- 
acter. It occupies a place which, amid all the publications upon cookery — and their 
name is Legion — has never yet been occupied. 

The author truly says that there have heen dinner-giving books published, that is 
books of »?^««f for company dinings, "Little Dinners," for especial occasions, etc., etc. ; 
but that she has never yet met with a practical directory of this important meal 
for every day in the year. In this volume she has furnished the programme 
in all its details, and has superintended the preparation of each dish, proceeding even to 
the proper manner of serving it at the table. The book has been prepared for 
the family, for the home of ordinary means, and it has hit the 
happy line ivhere elegance and economy meet. 

The most numerous testimonials to the value of Marion Harland's " Common Sense " 
books, which the publishers have received, both in newspaper notices and in private 
communications, are to the efifect — always expressed with some astonishment — that the 
directions of these receipts, actually folloived, produce the prom- 
ised result. We-cau prophesy the same for the new volume. 

The purchaser wU find that he has bought what the name purports — The Dinner 
Year-Book — a practical guide for the purchase of the material and preparation, serving, 
etc., of the ordinary home dinner for every day of the year. To these are added 
t'welve company dinners, one for each month, from which a selection can be 
made — according to the time of the year— equal to any occasion which will be presented 
-to the housekeeper. 

This book, however, is not valuable merely as. a directory for dinners appropriate to 
various seasons. It contains the largest nunxber of receipts for soups, fish, 
meat, vegetables, entrees of all descriptions, and desserts, ever offered to the 
American public. The material for this work has been collected with great care, 
both at home' and abroad, representing the diligent labor of many months. 

Note. — The original Edition of The Dinner Year Book^ ivith six colored plates, 
illustrating tiventy-eight subjects^ handsomely bound in cloth, loill he continued in 
print at the regular price, $2.25. 



*#* For sale by all booksellers, or ivill he seni^ post or express charges paid^ v^on 
receipt 0/ the price, by 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, Publishers, 

743 AND 745 Broadway, New York, 



THE COTTAGE KITCHEN 



COMMON 8EN8E IN THE HOUSEHOLD SERIES. 



The Cottage Kitchen 



A COLLECTION 



Practical and Inexpensive Receipts 



BY 

MARION HARLAND 



NEW TOEK 

CHAKLES SORTBNEE'S SONS 

1883 



Copyright, 1883, by 
CHAELES SORIBNEB'S SONS 



Trow's 

Printing and Bookbinding Company 
201-Z13 Bast Twelfth St, 

NEW YORK 



INDEX OF GENERAL SUBJECTS. 



PAOB 

Beverages 238 

Blanc mange 326 

Bread 148 

Cake 203 

Corn-bread 157 

Custards : 216 

Clieese-dislies 145 

Eggs 78 

Griddle-cakes 157 

Fisli 89 

Fruits, stewed and baked ... 193 

Jams and marmalade 194 

Jellies and blanc mange 226 



PAOE 

Jellies, fruit 196 

Meats 36 

Muffins 157 

Pic-nic dishes 245 

Pickles 197 

Porridges 137 

Poultry 78 

Puddings 166 

Salads 84 

Sauces for puddings 183 

Soups 9 

Vegetables 103 



FAMILIAE TALKS. 



Country-boarding 67 

Disb-washing 251 

Flies 221 



Maid-of -all-work 141 

Meats 36 

Soup and Stock-pot 9 



" Kitchenly-Kind " 186 ; Table manners 97 



FAMILIAE TAJLK 



" It is only the really poor and the rich who can afford to 
marry and go to housekeeping now-a-days," is a saying 
that is no longer flippant, but so pertinent that wise hu- 
manitarians look grave with the hearing thereof. 

To the factory-girl or the seamstress who has been used 
to " go out to work," a flat in a tenement house furnished 
with her own chattels, is home. She esteems it a privilege 
to be allowed to reign over the kingdom of three or four 
rooms, to take care of the cheap new furniture, and pre- 
pare three meals a day for herself and the husband who, 
perhaps, takes his dinner ia a paU. when, he goes forth to 
his daily labor. The routine of homely tasks arranged by 
herself is a light cross compared with the stem necessity 
of rising before sunrise on winter mornings, breasting 
evening storms, and toiling for ten hours of broLhng sum- 
mer days under the eye of an overlooker in a temperature 
where sickly girls faint every hour, and the most robust 
sigh, " Would God it were night ! " She is her own em- 
ployer, forewoman, and operative, and rejoices in her in- 
dependence. 

The rich — and less free — ^house-mistress puUs upon her 
husband's purse or her private fortune to maintain a hand- 
some establishment, and yields plaintive assent when the 
nominal master of the abode raUs at " the concern " as a 
" servants' boarding-house." 
1 



2 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Young men belonging to the great middle class — to wit, 
clerks in banks, stores, and offices, small tradesmen, law- 
yers, doctors, and clergymen, who are beginning the prac- 
tice of their professions — with salaries varying from $600 
to $1,200 per annum, cannot think of such luxuries as 
homes, wives, and famiUes of their very own for years to 
come. 

I was a hstener, some days ago, to a serious discussion 
of what we assume as a seK-evident truth, the speakers 
being two lawyers of distinction, men who treated the 
question with frankness, without sneering at the " extrava- 
gant notions of modem women." 

" The girls of this generation must marry middle-aged 
widowers, or remain single imtil the flower of youth has 
gone,'' was the summing up. " You and I married on 
$1,000 a year, and thought ourselves well off. Our daugh- 
ters must have double that sum. Every clergyman and 
pubUc register wiU tell you that the number of marriages 
is alarmingly on the decrease. Housekeepers cry out that 
the rise of salaries has not kept pace with the increased 
prices of provisions. The student of social economy puts 
the two facts together as cause and effect, and asks him- 
self ' what the end will be V " 

When to this statement we subjoin the truth that within 
the last quarter of a century Cookery as an Art has become 
a fashionable study, that as such it has kindergartens, nor- 
mal schools, professors, and itinerant lecturers, the problem 
is complicated. Must our girls practise the new branch 
merely as an accompUshment ? Is the knowledge for 
which we have paid fancy (and fabulous) prices but an- 
other aspect of the " sesthetic craze," to be ranked in an- 
other decade with the passing rage for illurtiinated flat- 
irons and decorated rolUng-pins ? 

In the hope of shedding one ray of practical Conmion 



FAMILIAR TALK. 3 

Sense through the fog that enwraps this subject, I have set 
myself to work to prepare a compendium of receipts that 
are economical, yet wholesome and palatable. I have kept 
steadily before me the end of adapting these to the use of 
young housekeepers, and the mighty mass of people of 
moderate means who crave something more tempting to 
eye and taste than the dry or coarse rations flung upon 
hundreds of tables with Kttle more regard to the de- 
cencies of domestic life than is observed in supplying stall 
and sty. 

As in nine cases out of ten, the first indication of the fail- 
ure of physical powers is ia the weakened digestive organs, so 
it may be affirmed that scarcity of means shows itself soon- 
est and most decidedly in the kitchen. Coarser materials 
take the place of deUcacies ; sameness succeeds to tempt- 
ing variety ; and she is a woman of exceptional spirit, as 
well as cleverness, who does not grow more indifferent 
each day in the execution of duties that have become 
homely and hard. 

The same rule obtains in households where Hmited re- 
sources and strict economy have always prevailed. Un- 
friendly criticism strikes most quickly and surely at the 
poor man who " sets a good table.'' 

Fapny Kemble writes of her mother's talent for cookery : 
" It amounted to genius, and might have made her a pre- 
eminent cordon bleu, if she had not been the vsife of a poor 
professional gentleman, whose moderate means were so 
skilfully turned to account ia her provision for his modest 
table, that he was accused by ill-natured people of indulg- 
ing ia the expensive luxury of a French cook. I would 
joyfully many a time in America have exchanged aU my 
boarding-school smatterings for her knowledge how to 
produce a wholesome and palatable dinner." 

I shall feel far xQore than repaid for the trouble it has 



4 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

cost me to prepare " The Cottage Kitchen" if it shall intro- 
duce into the rude plenty of one farm-house, or the monot- 
onous fare served in the mechanic's "flat," savoriness 
which is wholesome in a succession of dishes that shall 
cheat poverty of some of its severity. 

" If I had the materials I could cook as well as any- 
body," is the lament of her who cannot afford choice cuts, 
early vegetables, and forced fruit. 

To nourish her fanuly she fries tough meat into leather 
and strings, boils potatoes into wateriness, and soaks cab- 
bage with grease. To tickle their palates she expends 
muscle and labor in the composition of " famUy pie-crust," 
and fills the same with half-sweetened dried apples. 

I have been a summer boarder in farm-houses where 
they "calculated to raise nearly everything for the table;" 
have been permitted to sit in the neat kitchen of the me- 
chanic's wife, and chat with her while she made ready 
"his" dinner ; have gone on errands of business and mercy 
into far humbler abodes, yet where provisions were suffi- 
cient as to quantity, if common as to quality. Noting 
silently the processes of preparing food in all of these, I 
have made up" my mind that the unsatisfactory results are 
attributable mainly to two faults on the part of the house- 
wife. 

First: an ignorant indifferentism on the subject of 
dainty cookery as a rule. Her familyi,fare as well as their 
neighbors. They are no better educated in this re- 
spect than herself, or suppose that poor people must be 
content with poor Kving. She has to get up three meals a 
day, three hundred and sixty-five days in the year. The 
business is tiresome, because trite and imiateresting. She 
groans over baking, boiling, and frying, almost as dolo- 
rously as over the cleansing of pots,' pans, and kettles. It 
is a flow that goes on forever without the sudden sally, the 



FAMILIAR TALK. S 

BparHe and the daily of the brook. She never asks her- 
self whether her husband may not weary of driving nails 
or laying brick, of ploughing, sowing, and reaping. That 
is his life-labor. She would despise him if he were as 
apathetic in the performance, loathed it as drearily as she 
does kitchen-work. If she is ambitious, she is apt to wish 
aloud that she had a trade or profession. Her web of life 
is a hit-or-miss carpet, and the knots have a way of com- 
ing out on the right, which is the wrong side. She is al- 
ways discouraged, chronically fatigued, and given to decla- 
rations that a tread-null is a bower of pleasure compared 
with the existence of the woman who does her own work 
She would hardly discern exaggeration, and certainly see 
no burlesque in the humorously pathetic last words of the 
old woman, who was 

"Going 
Where washing ain't done, nor churning, nor sewing, 
And everything else will be just to my wishes ; 
For where they don't eat there's no washing of dishes. 
Don't mourn for me now, nor mourn for me never. 
For I'm going to do nothing for ever and ever." 

Far be it from me to deny that there are many and sharp 
crooks in the lot of our tired wife. Said a patient voice 
to the pastor who spoke of the praises of heaven, the ad- 
vance from glory to glory — " Some time perhaps I'U un- 
derstand it all Just now Td like to pray God to let me 
lie still in my grave for a couple of hundred years or so. 
Just to get rested out, you know ! " 

The fardel of human existence and toil is bound more 
tightly upon some shoulders than upon others. Yet the 
question to be pressed home to our housewife's con- 
sciousness and conscience is, whether she appreciates the 
truth that Home is her sphere since the Master has put 



6 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

her there and hedged her in by loves and duties, and 
house-keeping her trade, her profession, her mission. 

Fault the second, I write down as mismanagement of 
time and forces. 

The preparation of each meal is postponed until there is 
just time to get it ready between the commencement of 
the business and the hour of serving. Instead of forecast- 
ing breakfast in aU its details, and so far as possible laying 
materials ready to her hand, time and nervous power are 
wasted when both are scant, in thinking, "What can we 
have ? " and in collecting ingredients. The toilet is hurried 
that the work may be seized by the first handle that offers 
itself. Kindlings were not prepared, nor oatmeal put in 
soak at bedtime. The beef and potatoes that could have 
been wrought into croquettes, which would have been firm 
and fit for frying by morning, remain as they were left at 
dinner-time — the one a shapeless chunk, the other a pUe 
of slaty-blue bullets. Clearly the only resort is that bane 
of the national kitchen, the frying-pan. The worried wo- 
man would cook coffee and biscuit in it, if she dared. 
"There is wit goes to the boiling of eggs," says the ancient 
adage. Cahn judgment and foresight ; a wise weighing of 
resources and capabilities are as much needed in kind, if 
not in degree, in the management of a kitchen as of an 
empire. She who feeds judiciously the bodies of that por- 
tion of the present generation given into her charge sets 
her mark upon her age and the next as truly as does 
he who writes an epic that is worthy to live, or she who 
delights the world with a "Middlemarch." 

Thus stands the case, then ! Every woman should face 
the fact — and consider it intelligently — that she chose her 
mission in accepting the hand of a man who, she knew, 
could afford to keep neither cook nor chamber-maid. And 
•:r-having selected it of her own free wiU — she is bound by 



FAMILIAR TALK. 7 

honor and conscience to make the best of it and of herself. 
Instead of wearying mind and spirit by stooping to her 
work, let her bring her work up to her leveL 

They have a way in the Western settlements of using 
bored logs for drain-pipes and conduits. When one of 
these gets choked with mud a big eel is put in at one end, 
which is at once plugged up. The eel, if he is tolerably 
enterprising, finding there is not room for turning his 
body, nor possibOity of backing out, wriggles steadily on- 
ward until he emerges into the hght It may be a hun- 
dred or a thousand yards away from the starting-point 

It cannot be gainsaid that some women are created 
without taste for housewifery, nor that many of then- sex 
are bom deaf, others bhnd, and a few dumb. The suc- 
cess of these imfortunates in clearing away or working 
through the obstacles that clog their progress depends 
upon a sort of eel-like pertinacity of purpose theu' more 
gifted fellows should honor as it deserves to be honored. 

I make no apology for describing minutely the proper 
method of preparing the plain dishes which every raw cook 
fancies everybody must understand how to get up. What 
our cottage housekeeper needs most is the just conception 
in cookery as in graver concerns — of the importance of 
common things. She is apt to slur over such weighty 
matters of the law of dietetics and health as bread-making 
and potato-boUing, and rush with mistaken ambition after 
" fancy-dishes." Hers is a zeal without knowledge as truly 
as that of the art-student who dives at once into color 
without the preliminary drill of charcoal and cubes. When 
this principle is reduced to practice, the term " good plain 
cook " will be a title of honor, instead of disparagement. 

As to the lack of time for the day's work, the overlapping 
and "telescoping" duties that wring from the scared 
woman cries of horror and anguish, as she surveys the 



8 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

.wrecked train of hours, — ^may I append to this introductory 
chapter a bit of sound, every-day wisdom I have quoted 
elsewhere and more than once, with tongue and pen ? 

The sweet-natured, clear-headed woman who talks to us 
behind " Mary Blake's " mask says : 

"We have aU the time there is. Our mental and moral 
status is determined by what we. do with it." 

Suffer one more quotation, four Hnes by Longfellow, 
which I tacked up ia my buttery years ago, where my eye 
must fall upon them while mixing, beating, roUing, chop- 
ping, and what Mrs. Prentiss calls a " host of other ings " 
are going on. 

" All common things, each day's events, 
That with the hour begin and end. 
Our pleasures and our discontents 
Are rounds by which we may ascend." 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 



Afteb setting down the Jheading of this chapter, an 
amused misgiving stole over me as to the probability that 
one in ten of the housewives for whom I write this series 
would know the meaning of that last and compound word. 
That the stock-pot, or jar, or crock, by whatever name 
known in various sections of our country, is not an estab- 
lished institution in the average American household, may 
account for the infrequent appearance of any kind of soup 
upon our tables, and the even rarer offering of really good 
broth or potage. 

This important preliminary course of the family dinner 
and beginning of the serious busiaess of the hour at com- 
pany banquets is held in light esteem by no known civil- 
ized — or semi-civilized — nation except our own. The 
Frenchman wiU Uve, dance, and enjoy Ufe upon a bit of 
black bread and onion soup, made savory by a bone for 
which he has paid a sou. The ItaUan shreds cabbage and 
dog-fennel into his broth with the lavishness of the theo- 
logical student of old who heaved into the pot a lapful of 
poisonous wild things {Query: mushrooms?). The black 
broth of the Spartans is a classic legacy, and hungry Esau 
was no match for the artful junior — and Jew — ^who stirred 
the red lentile pottage before his eyea 

Our native housewife does not depreciate soups as she 



lO COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

doea certain " fancy dishes " because they are difficult to 
prepare, and adorn rather than provide her board. She 
honestly classifies them as " slops " that go for nothing in 
her bill-of-fare. I have seen crockery cupboards in re- 
spectable, comfortable famUies, where one might look in 
vain for a siagle soup-plate. I know other and wealthier 
households where soup is not served for months together, 
even for dinner-company. There is more than one reason 
for this notorious disregard of an article of food decreed 
by so many other peoples and ages to be excellent. In 
New England the lack of the^ cheerful hospitality that de- 
hghts soul and body in the Middle and Southern States is 
due, beyond doubt, to the fact that fewer servants are kept 
for domestic work ia the first-named section than in the 
latter. Yankee thrift rebels at the thought of having 
. " extra help " for purposes so unremunerative as entertain- 
ing strangers, and "company" becomes more and more a 
hardship to be avoided by every practicable and decent 
means. So, our notable housekeeper who washes her own 
dishes grows into the habit of counting the cost of what- 
ever iavolves another stroke of mop or toweL With the 
labor-saving instinct in the industrious woman's mind goea 
the desire to save time. Soup is another course — there- 
fore ten minutes more — ^in a meal that already takes at 
least half an hour out of the heart of the day. The change 
of plates exactly doubles the " bother " of service. 

" You can't — fix it as you wiU — set soup, meat, and pud- 
ding on all at once." 

Giving due place and weight to all these considerations, 
it is yet true that the main cause of the exclusion of soup 
from the tables of our middle and lower classes is that, not 
knowing how to make it, the product of their rare experi- 
ments in this line has discouraged the manufacturer and 
disgusted those for whom it was poured out. Dish-water 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. II 

is not soup, nor does the greasy paste which is its alternate 
better desM^e the name. 

" I observe that you insist upon the use of the soup- 
strainer in your receipts for soup-making," writes a corre- 
spondent. " Now, my John says you are wrong in this. 
He cannot reUsh anything of the kind unless the meat, 
vegetables, etc., are left in it, and the hquid pretty weU 
thickened with flour or com starch. ¥et he is very fond 
of soup." 

I answered : " My dear madam, your John may be fond 
of stews. He is>not a soup-lover." 

There are those who give the preference to broths, 
thickened vdth rice, barley, farina, tapioca, sage, and the 
like, over clear soupa They are more easily managed by 
a novice, and perhaps usually more nourishing, although 
considered less elegant for dinner-parties and other formal 
entertainments. Broths are good family fare — provided 
always that the strength of the materials used in the 
manufacture of them is thoroughly extracted before the 
liquor is drawn off. Clear soups are without flavor or 
nutriment unless this be done. The failure to comply 
with this essential regulation hes at the bottom of much of 
the contempt felt and expressed by many who have never 
seen or tasted good bouillon, or so much as heard of clear 
gravy soup. 

If this preamble to our practical talk upon soup-maMng 
seems superfluous, and the directions following it ridicu- 
lously simple and minute, the reader, in extenuation of 
what bores her, wUl please beheve my statement of the 
gross and general ignorance on the subject of this paper, 
illustrated in thousands of kitchens by such facts as I have 
just stated. 

Before leaving this point of the distinction between 
broths and soups, let me remark that' good clear (and 



12 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

strong) soup cannot be extracted from cooked bones and 
meat Family broth of fair quality may be made from 
the carcasses of poultry and game, and from bones and 
scraps of underdone beef, muttonj and veaL 

Let your materials be what they may, they should be 
put over the fire in cold water, and kept at a low tempera- 
ture for the first hour, at least. Bones should be cracked 
in several places, meat cut into dice, vegetables sUced or 
grated. But the chief .secret in the, to many, occult art of 
soup-brewing is steady, slow cooking for a long time. To 
be hasty in the process is to mar. Impatience but accel- 
erates ruin. The first fast boil hardens the outer network 
of fibrous sHn and the albumen next to this into a case 
almost impervious to water ; seals the generous juices 
away from influences that would else draw them to the 
surface. 

It is Grimm, I think, or may be Hans Andersen, who 
teUs the story of the peasant girl whom the king made into 
a great lady, because when left to watch the soup-pot she 
never once suffered it to boiL Our energetic Yankee 
housewife, whose specialty is " driving " herself and sub- 
ordinates, including fire and water, might go to school to 
the German girL For two hours the contents of the pot 
should simmer drowsily beneath a closely fitting lid. Then 
the heat may be increased until a gentle bubble agitates 
the Uquid, little more decided than that which shakes the 
water ia a " singing " tea-kettle. From the beginning to 
the close of the operation nothing is gained and much im- 
perilled by a "good hard boil." But neither shoiild the 
" bubble, bubble " be allowed to intermit. The practised 
ear of the cook, busied about other matters, will soon 
detect irregularity on this head. The best soup-maker I 
ever had in my kitchen was a young woman who only 
knew enough when she took the place to obey orders with 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 1 3 

Casabianca-ish doggedness. She would leave her meals ; 
drop knife and the potato she was peeling in the sink ; in- 
terrupt me in the middle of an order — I verily beheve 
would have started up from the soundest slumber of 
healthy youth — to dash at the range with " Is that soup 
a-bilin' hard ? " if the smothered murmur from the covered 
pot was quickened by but a few beats in a minute. 

Next — put no salt nor other seasoning in the soup until 
meat and vegetables have yielded up their goodness. As a 
rule, season just before you are ready to remove it from 
the fire. Condiments have a tendency to harden the fibres 
and flesh, and thus resist the persuasiveness of heat and 
water upon the object to be steeped into pulp. Whenever 
you can, make soup the day before it is to be used on the 
tabla The important process of freeing it from every 
particle of fat is then made easy by the congelation into a 
&na cake upon the top of the liquid of the oils that will 
arise even from lean meat. Circles and eddies of hot 
grease in one's plate of soup are offensive to sight and taste 
— demoralizing to the stomach. 

The soup made, the stock-jar comes to the front. A 
wide-mouthed stone pot vdth straight sides is best for this 
purpose. It should be well glazed on the inside, that it 
may not absorb fat or Uquid. Pour the soup — unstrained 
— ^into it and set by until the morrow, when it must be care- 
fully skimmed. If you have allowed a quart of cold water 
to each pound of meat — independent of marrow-bones and 
vegetables — you should now have a rich, gelatinous "stock" 
above the residuum at the bottom. Strain off from this, 
day by day, enough to supply soup for your family. If 
the stock is very strong you can dilute it for daily use. 
The stock-pot must be kept in the cellar or other cold 
place. "When the jelly runs low, put the entire contents 
of the jar over the fire, adding enough cold water to cover 



14 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

all well, and cook gently for a couple of hours. Then 
di-ain and press in a colander, and run the liquid thus 
obtained through your soup-strainer. Good broth may 
be made of this, but do not attempt to get clear soup from 
it. The mass left in the colander is as unfit for food as 
would be so much wet, raw cotton. 

I state this distinctly, lest economic zeal, but not accord- 
ing to knowledge, should induce our cottage housekeeper 
to trim it up into ragout or hash. Throw it away — not 
disdainfully, for it has done its work well if you have 
yours, and parted with every element of nutrition. I 
have heard of a rich family, the daughters of which wear 
velvet and fine laces every day, whose breakfasts, for some 
weeks, consisted chiefly of hashes variously seasoned and 
gravied, but all based upon the minced meat from which 
beef-tea had been made for the invalid motl\er. This is 
meanness — not frugality. The two differ as widely as do 
prodigality and parsimony. 

But to our stock-pot — a much more agreeable subject. 
When it has been thus emptied, and before fresh soup is 
poured into it, cleanse it thoroughly, washing with hot 
soap-suds, scalding several times, rinsing out with clear 
water in which a teaspoonful of soda has been dissolved, 
and finally setting it in the open air for some hours until 
it is perfectly odorless. This process should be repeated 
at least once a week even in winter ; in summer twice as 
often. Bits of underdone meats, scraps of lean corned 
ham, bones from roast, boil, and broU as they accumu- 
late, may go into the stock-jar. Vegetables should not 
be added after the soup is cooked, as they are apt ' to 
sour. But a few spoonfuls of stewed tomato, canned 
corn, beans or peas, are often a pleasant contribution 
to stock taken out for to-day's dinner. Nothing of the 
sort should be thrown away. A half-cupful of cold 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 15 

boiled rice, a cup of milk and an egg, joined judicious- 
ly to a pint of stock, can be wrought up into a deli- 
cious white soup. I^o fat or smoked fragments should 
be consigned to the stock-jar or soup-kettle. Festoons of 
cobweb in the drawing-room are not more sure indices 
of slovenly housewifery than are oily soups of unskilful 
cookery. 

If I seem to recur with needless frequency and emphasis 
to this point, it is because I have come to regard Fat as 
the evil element of American culinary effort. And no- 
where else is its rule more rampant in all the phases of 
boiled fat, stewed fat, fried fat, and foulest reek of all — 
burnt fat ! than in our cottage kitchens. 



Fish Soup. 

2 cups of soup stock. 

1 small cup of fine crumbs. 

1 coffee-cup of cold fish, minced very fine and cleared 
of bones, fat, and skin. 

1 cup of boiling milk. 

1 egg, beaten light. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Skim the stock carefully, heat it to boihng, and stir in 
the fish, add pepper and salt, and boU gently forty min- 
utes. Heat the mUk in a vessel set within another, the 
outer containing boiling water. "When the milk is hot 
pour it upon the beaten egg, mix well, put over the fire 
again and stir in the butter, then the crumbs and parsley. 
Stir two minutes and turn into a heated tureen. Set a 
hot colander above it and rub the soup through it. Stir 
up weU and serve. 



1 6 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Oyster Soup. 

1 quart of oysters. . 

2 cups of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 cupful of boiling water. 

Drain every drop of the liquor from the oysters through 
a colander, and set them aside io a cold place while you 
put the liquor and boiling water, with pepper and salt to 
taste, on the stove over a good fire. Bring the hquid 
quickly to a boil, add the butter, and when this has 
melted, the oysters. Let them heat rather slowly, and 
when they ruffle, which should be about five minutes after 
they reach the boil, take them from the fire. Have ready 
the milk, boiling hot, in another vesseL Put oysters and 
soup into the tureen, stir in the milk, cover the tureen, 
and let it stand two minutes in hot water before sending 
to the table. 

Send around crackers with oyster soup. 

Clam Soup. 

Drain the liquor from the clams, set these last aside in 
a cool place ; add to the juice an equal quantity of water, 
season well vrith pepper and salt and a little fimely-mineed 
onion, and bring to a boil. Strain through a coarse cloth ; 
return to the fire, and chop the clams quite small before 
stirring them into the hot liquor. Stew all together half 
an hour, add two tablespoonfuls of cracker-crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of butter and one of minced celery, or a 
teaspoonful of essence of celery. Simmer five minutes, 
while you scald in another vessel, set in boiling water, a 
cup of milk, slightly salted. Pour this into a hot tureen, 
then the soup, stirring weU, and it is ready for use. In 
warm weather, add a bit of soda, not larger than a pea, to 
Vhe milk before scalding it. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 17 

Clam soup can be made -without milk, water beiag used 
instead. "When this is done, use more crumbs. 

Another way is to chop a whole parboiled onion fine and 
mix with the minced clams, cooking the misture forty-five 
minutes instead of thirty. This makes a nourishing and 
savory soup. 

Clam Chowder. 

i lb. of fat salt pork. 

75 clams. 

2 small onions or 1 large one, parboiled and chopped 
small. 

1 tablespoonful of parsley. 

12 Boston crackers, split and soaked half an hour in 
1 cup of milk, slightly warmed. 

Cold water, pepper and salt. 
Chop the pork fine, and sprinkle a layer in the bottom 
of a pot. Cover this with the clams, season, scatter on it 
minced onion, and lay in a coating of the split, soaked 
crackers. Then more pork, clams, seasoning, onion and 
cracker, until the materials are used up. Cover an inch 
deep with cold water and bring to a slow sinuner. Cook 
forty-five minutes after the bubble begins, taking care 
that the fire does not touch the bottom of the pot, as the 
crackers will be apt to scorch. Strain the chowder, but 
do not shake or press it. Put the clams and crackers into 
a hot tureen, the liquor back in the pot, stir in a generous 
tablespoonful of fine crumbs, and, if you have it, half a 
cupful of tomato-juice, drained from the can which is to 
furnish a dish of stewed tomatoes for dinner. Boil up 
once and pour over the chowder. If you have not Tnillr to 
spare, soak the crackers in boiling water. 

It is a common mistake to imagine that chowder, like 
some other dishes reckoned as dainties by "high-livers," 



I 8 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

miist therefore be excluded from tlie poor man's table. A 
moment's computation of tlie cost of the dish described in 
this receipt will proTe that the cause of this exclusion is 
not necessity. 

Such a chowder as the one described below is a dinner 
of itself and a good one, and can be put before a tired and 
hungry man at an expense of about thirty cents — at some 
seasons of the year for less. 

Cod Chowder. 

2 lbs. fresh cod, cut into bits an inch square. 

6 potatoes, peeled, shced, and parboiled. 

1 shced onion. 

|-lb. fat salt pork, chopped. 

6 spUt crackers, soaked in 1 cup of warm TniTIr or io 
boiling water. 

Pepper, salt, and a handful of minced parsley. 
Put first a layer of pork in the pot, then one of pota- 
toes well peppered, next fish, onions, parsley — ^beginning 
a second round with pork. Cover with boiling water, and 
stew gently half an hour. Line the tureen with the soaked 
crackers, and set in hot water until the chowder is done. 
Pour it in, cover, and send to the table. 

Send around green pickles with it. A httle pickled cu- 
cumber, chopped, is an improvement to the chowder if 
added just before taking it up. 

In the country, where butter is abundant, the house- 
mother may better the chowder by buttering the hot sod- 
den crackers before pouring the contents of the pot over 
them. 

Catfish Soup. 

4 fresh-water catfish, or about 2 lbs. in aU. 
^ onion, parboiled and chopped. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 19 

1 cup of milk scalded, with bit of soda stirred in, not 
larger than- a pea. 

1 teaspoonful essence of celery. 

1 beaten egg. 

3 pints of cold water. 

1 tablespoonful of corn-starch wet up in cold water. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, and same of minced parsley. 

1 sUce fat salt pork, minced. 
Skia and clean the fish, remove their heads, and cut up 
smalL 

Lay the pork in a pot, the fish on it, then the onion, 
and cover with the cold water. Stew forty-five minutes, 
or until the fish falls to pieces. Strain and squeeze 
through a colander, put over the fire again, stir in the 
corn-starch, butter, pepper, salt, and celery essence, boil 
one minute. Meanwhile have ready in a tin paU set in 
boiling water, the milk scalded and cooked one minute 
with the beaten egg and parsley, or until it begins to 
thicken. Pour this into a heated tureen, stir the boiling 
soup into it, and it is ready for the table. 

You may, if you Hke, Hne the tureen with spht water- or 
butter-crackers soaked in hot water or milk. 

A good soup in country neighborhoods where catfish 
are plentiful in ponds and creeks. Even in tovm they are 
among our cheapest fisL If you cannot get parsley, use 
celery-tops, omitting the celery essence. 

Lobster Bisque. 

1 can of lobster, or 2 small fresh lobsters. 

2 cups of milk. 

3 pints of boiling water. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of butter. 
^ cup finely -powdered cracker. 
Salt to taste. 



20 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

As much cayenne pepper as mil lie on a silver half- 
dime. 

Chop the lobster rather coarse mth a keen-bladed chop- 
per, takrag pains not to tear it Put boiling water, salt, 
pepper, and lobster into a saucepan and cook gently forty 
miautes. At the end of this time have ready in a tin ves- 
sel (set in another of hot water) the scalding milk in which 
the crumbs have soaked for twenty minutes. Stir the 
butter into the stewed lobster, then the soaked crumbs and 
milk, turn out into a covered tureen, set in hot water five 
minutes, and send to table. 

Don't be frightened at the EVench name, or by the no- 
tion that lobster is an expensive luxury. On some parts 
of our coast they retail for fifty cents a half-dozen. Pre- 
served lobster is seldom more than 30 cents a can. The 
Usque is very dehghtful, costing httle except for the fisL 

Eel Soup. 

2 lbs. of eels, cleaned, cleared of fat, and cut into short 

pieces. 
1 small onion, minced. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 slice fat salt pork, chopped. 
1 cup of milk, scalding hot. 

1 tablespoonful of flour rubbed up with the butter. 

2 quarts cold water. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

1 tablespoonfiil of chopped parsley. 
Put eels, onion, and pork on in the cold water and stew 
one hour, or until the fish is in rags. Eub all except the 
bones through a colander back into the pot, boU up and 
add the floured butter, parsley, salt, and pepper. Boil 
one minute. Put the hot milk into a tureen, stir in the 
soup, and send to the table. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 21 

If you choose you may line the tureen with toasted 
split crackers, very dry and buttered. 

A Lenten Soup. 

1 large potato. 
1 onion. 
1 turnip, 
legg. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

2 cups of nulk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour. 

^ of a small cabbage. 

■J cup fine dry bread-crumbs. 

Parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 

A stalk of celery. 
Chop the cabbage, peel and mince the other vegetables, 
put into a pot with cold water enough to cover them, and 
let them get scalding hot, but not boiL Drain off the water 
through a colander and throw it away. Keturn the vege- 
tables to the pot, add a quart of boiling water, and stew 
slowly until they are very soft. Eub all through a colan- 
der — water as weU as vegetables — season, and heat again 
to boiling before stirring in crumbs and butter. Have 
the mUk hot in another vessel, drop in a bit of soda the 
size of a pea, and stir into the soup. Draw to the side of 
the stove, dip out a cupful and mix with this the beaten 
egg. When this has been done, pour the egg and liquor 
back into the soup, stir well over the fire for one minute, 
and turn into a hot tureen. 

This pottage is especially commended to those who 
raise their own vegetables and keep a cow. At a nominal 
cost an excellent dish can be set on the table, one that will 
be very popular when once tasted. 



22 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Katherine's Soup. 

Lite the last, this is made without meat. 
1 onion, sliced. 
1 carrot, grated. 
1 turnip, grated. 

3 tablespoonfuls chopped cabbage. 
i can tomatoes. 

4 tablespoonfuls of raw rice soaked' one hour. 
1 cup of mUk. 

1 lump of white sugar. 

1 teaspoonful essence of celery, of a teaspoonful of 

celery-seed tied in a muslin bag, or a stalk of 
celery chopped. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up and rolled in. flour. 

3 pints of cold water. 
Pepper and salt. 

Parboil the onion and cabbage and throw away the 
water. Put all the vegetables, sliced and grated (except 
the tomatoes), in a pot with the soaked rice, cover with the 
cold water, and stew one hour. Then put in the tomatoes, 
and cook twenty minutes longer. Press and squeeze all 
that will pass the colander-holes back into the pot, leaving 
behind only hard lumps and tough fibres. - The pulped 
vegetables should be like a very soft paste in the pot. 
Heat again and season, stirring often, then put in the 
floured butter. When the soup bubbles all over, turn 
into the tureen and stir in the milk, which should have 
been scalded in another vessel 

A little chopped parsley is an improvement. It should 
be added when the butter goes in. 

Onion Soup (witTumt meat). 

3 onions, parboiled ten minutes, then chopped and 
the water thrown away. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 23 

1 stalk of celery, or a teaspoonful of celery essence. 

1 grated turnip. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in a tablespoonful 

of flour. 
1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

3 pints of cold water. 

Cook the vegetables in the water slowly, until they are 
very tender. Kub thi-ough a colander with the water in 
which they were boUed, season with pepper, salt, and pars- 
ley, and simmer ten minutes before stirring ia the floured 
butter. Dip out a cupful and beat iuto it the whipped 
eggs. Stir this well into the soup, cook one minute, 
keeping the spoon going all the time to prevent the egga 
from clotting, and pour at once into a hot tureen. 

A relishful and wholesome stormy-day broth. 

Quick Potato Pur&e (without meat). 

6 large mealy potatoes, boiled and mashed while hot. 
3 pints of boUing water. 
1 cup of scalding milk. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet up in 
cold mUk. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Put the water over the fire with the mashed potato and 
simmer twenty minutes. Eun through a' colander back 
into the pot to get rid of all lumps, put in parsley, salt and 
pepper, and cook ten minutes more, stirring up from the 
bottom now and then to avoid the chance of scorching. 
Now stir in the butter, then the corn-starch, and, when the 
mixture thickens well, the hot milL Let it just boil and 
pour out 



24 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Potato Soup. 

The only meat needed for this is a small piece of salt 
pork — say a quarter of a pound — chopped into bits. 
8 mealy potatoes, peeled and sliced. 
1 small onion, or half a large one, also sliced. 
1 stalk of refuse celery, such as your green-grocer vioU 

give you for nothing — minced. 
1 heaping tablespoonful of butter, cut up in the same 
quantity of flour. 

1 cup of mDk. 

Pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. 

2 quarts of cold water. 

Lay the sliced potatoes in cold water half an hour ; then 
cook five minutes in boiling. Drain and put into the 
soup-pot with onion, pork, and celery. Add the water, 
and boil steadily one hour. Strain, rubbing all through 
the colander. Eetum to the fire ; season, and when it 
boils anew, stir in the floured butter. Heat the milk in a 
separate vessel, and add after the soup is put into the 
tureen, mixing in well. 

There should be less than three pints of this vegetable 
soup, or purke, when ready for table, the two quarts of 
water put in at first having reduced at least a pint in boil- 
ing. It is a nutritious and savory soup. 

Bean Soup. 

1 quart of dried beans. 

^ lb. of fat salt pork chopped. 

1 small onion. 

1 tablespoonful of flour, wet to a paste with cold 

water. 
4 quarts of cold water. 
1 stalk of celery (if convenient), minced. 
Pepper to taste,, and (perhaps) salt. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK- POT. 2$ 

Soak the beams all night in cold water. Drain them ia 
the morning and cover vrith lukewarm water. After soak- 
ing two honrs in this, drain them again, put into a large 
pot with the pork, onion, celery, and cold water, and set 
where it will, in an hour's time, come to a slow boiL 
Keep this up four or five hours, and rub all well through 
a colander, leaving nothing but dry husks behind. Be- 
tum to the pot, season to your liking, stir in the flour- 
paste, boil up well once, and serve. 

This soup is better the second day than the first, and 
good always. You may, if you like, fry some strips of 
stale bread crisp and put into the tureen before pouring 
in the soup. 

The above receipt will make a large quantity. Set aside 
a quart, and in a day or two make — 

Bean and Tomato Soup. 

Open a can of tomatoes, put into a saucepan with a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and stew gently half an hour. Rub 
through a colander ; return to the fire with the bean soup 
saved from yesterday, and simmer together after they be- 
gin to boil, about twenty minutes, before serving. 

Or you may, if you prefer, have — 

Bean and Corn Soup. 

Chop the contents of a can of com in your chopping- 
tray tmtil they are Kke fine hominy, and cook haK an 
hour in just enough boiling water to cover it. Rub 
through a colander into the cold bean soup, add a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and when it comes to a boil, a table- 
spoonful of butter cut up in one of flour. Simmer five 
minutes, and it is ready for use. 
8 



26 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Pur&e of Peas. 

1 pint of split peas, soaked over night. 

3 quarts of liquor in whioli corned beef has been 

boUed. 
1 onion, sliced (a small one). 

1 cup of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of com-starcli, wet up in cold water. 
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, and, if convenient, 

a stalk of celery, chopped. 
Pepper to taste. No sali 
Skim all the fat from the cold beef-liquor and pour the 
latter upon the soaked peas, sliced onion, and celery. Cook 
slowly four hours at least, or until the peas are boiled very 
soft. Eub them through the colander with the liquor ; 
return to the fire, stir in parsley, pepper, and corn-starch. 
Simmer five minutes, and pour into the tureen. Heat the 
milk separately, and add. Small squares, or dice, of stale 
bread fried in dripping, drained, and put into the tureen 
before the soup, are a pleasant addition _to it. It is very 
nice made of green peas — fresh ot canned. These, of 
course, need no soaking. 

Green Pea and Potato Soup. 

8 mealy potatoes, parboiled and sliced. 

1 pint' of green peas, or same quantity of canned. 

1 sHced onion — small. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch wet with cold water. 
Pepper ansl chopped parsley. 

2 quarts corned-beef or corned-ham liquor. 

Put the skimmed liquor, onion, peas, and parboiled 
potatoes over the fire, and cook slowly one hour. Eub 
through the colander with the liquor, pepper, and return, 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 27 

■witli the parsley, to the kettle. Boil up once, stir in the 
corn-starch, cook two minutes, and pour out 

In helping bean, pea, and other purees, put the ladle 
■well down to the bottom of the tureen, and stir before 
pouring out the first plateful. 

The French canned peas are too expensive to be used 
for soup. The American are cheap, and only fit for this 
purpose. 

Pea and Rice Pur£e. 

1 quart of green peas, fresh or canned. 

•J cup rice, soaked three hours in a cup of warm 
water. 

2 quarts corned-beef Uquor, or other weak stock. 

1 tablespoonful of butter cut up in same quantity of 

flour. 
Pepper to taste. 
J small onion, chopped. 
Drain the peas, if canned, and put into the stock with 
the onion and rice. Cook slowly forty-five minutes, strain 
and press through a colander. Put over the fire, season, 
stir in the floured butter, boil up once and serve. 

Tomato and Rice Broth. 

1 can of tomatoea 

^ cup raw rice which has been soaked three hours in 
a cup of warm water. 

1 lump of white sugar. 

2 quarts weak broth, in which a leg of mutton was 

boiled yesterday or the day before. 
Peppef and salt to taste. 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley and same of onion, 
minced. 
Put tomatoes, soaked rice, and onion in the cold, 



28 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

skimmed broth, and stew gently one hour. Season with 
sugar, salt, and pepper. When you have rubbed through 
the colander, boil up once and pour out. 

Tomato Soup {mtlwut meat). 

1 dozen ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced, or a can of 

tomatoes. 
1 small onion, sliced and fried to a light brown in 

some nice dripping. 
1 tablespoonful of butter rolled in same quantity of 

flour. 
■J- cupful of hot boiled rice, very soft, 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
1 quart boiling water. 

Pepper, salt, and chopped parsley or celery tops. 
Put three tablespoonfuls of clean dripping into the 
soup-pot, bring to a boU and fry the sliced onion. Add 
the tomatoes, and stir together over the fire until smoking 
hot before the boiling water goes in. Stew steadily forty 
minutes, and put aU through the colander back iato the 
pot ; season, bring again to a boU, add the rice ; simmer 
ten minutes, stir in the floured butter, boil one minute, and 
pour out. 

Canned Corn Soup {mthmt meat). 

1 can of corn, drained and chopped fine. 
1 pint of mUk. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in 1 tablespoonful of 

flour. 
2 eggs. , 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 29 

Put the chopped com over the fire in the boiling water 
and cook for an hour. Work through a colander ; return 
to the pot -with sugar, pepper, and salt. Boil one minute 
and stir in the floured butter. Have the milTr ready 
scalded, and add it gradually to the beaten eggs. When 
the butter has entirely melted, stir eggs and rnillr into the 
soup for one minute, then pour it out. 

Turnip Puree {without meat). 

12 turnips of medium size, white and firm. 

3 cups of milk. 

3 pints of bofling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour. 

i small onion, parboiled and sliced- 

1 tablespoonful of minced parsley. 

Salt to taste, and pepper rather profusely. 
Peel and sUce the turnips and put on in the hot water 
with the onion. Cook forty minutes, or until the vegeta- 
bles boil to pieces. Pulp through a colander into the 
water in which they were boiled, season with pepper, salt, 
and parsley, and set over the fire. Stir in the floured 
butter, simmer five minutes, add the milk, which should 
have been heated in a separate vessel with a bit of soda 
not larger than a pea, and take at once from the fire. 

Ham Soup. 

Skim and clear two quarts of the liquor in which a corned 
(not smoked) ham was boUed. To clear it put it over a 
quick fire (with half an onion sUced), and when more than 
blood warm drop in the white and shell of an egg, or the 
freshly-broken shells of two. Boil fast three minutes, and 
strain through a thick cloth. This wiU give you a clear- 



30 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

looking liqiud. Eetum it to the fire, bring it to a boil, 
wet two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch in half a cup of 
milk and stir into the soup. Beat two eggs light in a 
bowl, add to them a cup of the boiling soup, mix well, and 
return to that in the pot, . with a tablespoonf ul of minced 
parsley. Chop two hard-boiled eggs fine and put them 
into a hot tureen, before pouring in the soup. 

A Family Soup. 

2 lbs. cracked bones, beef, veal, or mutton. 
^ lb. of liver, chopped fine. 

ilb. corned ham, also chopped, or a ham bone, broken 
well, or some salt pork bones. 

1 carrot, chopped. 

2 tablespoonfuls of minced cabbage, and as much 

onion. 
^ can of tomatoes. 
2 tablespoonfuls of raw rise. 
Pepper, salt, and sweet herbs minced. 
2^ quarts of cold water. 
Put everything except the seasoning and rice over the 
fire in the cold water, cover, and let aU cook slowly four 
hours. Meanwhile soak the rice in just enough warm 
water to cover it.; Strain the soup, pulping hver and 
vegetables through'lhe colander, season and return to the 
fire ; add the rice, and simmer half an hour, or uatil it is 
soft. 

Bone Soup. 

Make this, and aU soups that have meat in them, the 
day before they are to be eaten. 

4 lbs. of bones (raw), pounded to pieces, saving every 

bit of the marrow to, enrich the soup. 
1 small onion. 



SOVPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 31 

1 turnip. 

1 caxrot. 

2 or 3 stalks of refuse celery, a cabbage leaf and 

bunch of " soup herbs," aU chopped. 

2 tablespoonfuls of tapioca, soaked three hours in 

enough water to cover it. 

3 quarts of cold water. 

Put minced vegetables, herbs, and cracked bones on in 
the cold water, cover, and let them " bubble " gently at 
the back of the stove for five hours. At the end of this 
time bring to a quicker boU, and check this suddenly by 
throwing in a cup of cold water. Skim carefully, season, 
turn aU. into the stock-pot, and set in the cellar until 
morning. Then remove the fat from the top, strain, with- 
out pressing, and clear the Uquor by warming it to more 
than blood-heat, dropping in the white and shell of a raw 
egg, boihng up hard for three minutes, and straining, with- 
out squeezing, through a thick cloth. Return the clear 
liquid to the fire in a clean pot, add the soaied tapioca, 
and simmer fifteen minutes. 

This is a cheap and good " stock," susceptible of many 
variations in the final preparation. 

Chicken and Corn Soup. 

Even in the country, where old fowls^must be disposed 
of in some way, it is seldom economical to boil them to 
pieces just to make soup. But if you wiU save the liquor 
in which these have been boiled the day before, for the 
table, a delightful soup may be supplied good enough for 
city-boarders and company. 

2 quarts of the liquor left from boiling a chicken, 

cleared of fat after it is cold. 
1 can of com, chopped, or 8 ears of green com, rather 
too hard for table-use, grated from the cob. 



32 COTTAGE KITCHEN. . 

1 tablespoonful of butter cut up in one of flour. 

1 tablespoonful miuced' paxBley and same of green 

onion-tops. 
Pepper and salt. 

1 cup of boiling milk. 

Boil com and liquor slowly together one hour after they 
begin to bubble. Eiib thoroughly through a colander, 
season and add herbs. Heat to boiling, stir ia the floured 
butter, simmer five minutes, pour into the tureen and add 
the boiling mUL 

Clear Sago Soup. 

2 lbs. lean beef — ^the coarsest cuts will do— chopped 

as for mince-meat. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 33 

of cold water, and cook slowly down to one quart. Season, 
and set aside in the liquor until perfectly cold. Kemove 
the fat, take out the bones, and chop all the meat you can 
get off these, with the giblets, very fine. Strain and season 
the stock, and set over the fire to heat. When it boils, add 
the chopped meat and giblets, some minced soup-herbs, 
and cook three minutes. Beat two eggs Ught in a bowl, 
pour a cup of hot soup on them, stir well together and 
then into the soup-pot, for one minute, just long enough 
to cook, without curdling the eggs. 

Mutton Broth. 

2 lbs. lean mutton — a coarse part — say, from the 
Bcrag, and if tough, no matter. Chop as for 
mince-meat. 

■J onion, sliced. 

1 cup of milk. 

^ cup of raw rice. 

2 quarts of cold water. 
Some chopped parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 

Bon meat and onion in the water, slowly, four hours 
after the bubbhag begins. Seaaon, and set by until per- 
fectly cold. Take off the fat and strain, pressing out every 
drop of nourishment from the meai Return the soup to 
the pot with the rice, previously soaked three hours in 
just enough water to cover it Simmer half an hour, or 
until the rice is soft and broken to pieces ; add the parsley, 
sinmier three minutes, turn in the milk, which should be 
scalding hot, stir one minute and pour out. 



34 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

A Scotch Soup. 

1 sheep's head, cleaned as butchers do calves' heads, 

the wool being removed, leaving the skin on. 
1 turnip. 
1 small onion. 
1 carrot. 

Bunch of sweet herbs, minced. 
4 quarts of cold water. 
Pepper and salt. 

Be sure the head is clean. Sometimes dirt or grass is 
left in the mouth. Soak one hour in warm (not hot) 
water, then put it into the pot, with the cold water, and 
bon slowly five hours. Season, and let all get cold to- 
gether. Take off the fat from the top, chop the meat, and 
put it back with the bones and liquor into the pot, to stew 
for an hour. Cut the tongue into small dice, and set 
aside. Cut up the peeled vegetables in like manner, and 
coyering them with salted hot water stew untO. tender, 
but not to breaking. Strain the soup through a- colander, 
then through a cloth, return to the fire, drop in the 
minced tongue and" the cooked vegetables, simmer ten 
minutes and serve. 

A cheap and savory dish. 

, A Scrap Soup. 

•The carcass of roast turkey, duck, or chicken. A shce 
of corned ham, or some cold lean boiled ham. Any mut- 
ton or beef bones you may have in the pantry. 

i a can of com. 

^ onion, minced. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 



SOUPS AND THE STOCK-POT. 35 

3 quarts of cold water. 
Stuf&ng of turkey or chicken. 

1 tablespoonful com-starch, wet up in half a cup of 
TnilTr. 

Set bones, ham, com, and onion over the fire with the 
cold water, and cook gently for four hours. Take out the 
bones, and strain the soup through a colander, pulping 
the vegetables. Return to the fire, put in the dressing 
and herbs. Stir until there are no lumps in it, season, 
and simmer fifteen minutes, taking care it does not bum. 
Then stir in the corn-starch and milk, boU one minute, and 
it is lit for use. 



MEATS. 



FAMILIAR TALK. 

Of late years, the "meat question" has been fraught 
with deepening perplexity to the frugal housewife. That 
vegetarian theories have not grown in favor with the 
American pubHc in the same period is presumptive evi- 
dence against their reasonableness. Doctors and health- 
journals, meanwhile, unite in declaring that as flesh-con- 
sumers we surpass even our ancestral beef-eaters. If "the 
scarcity of beasts of meat" is no longer a drawing-room 
topic, even fashionists do not disdain to declaim against 
the extortion of butchers, while insisting upon the neces- 
sity of having meat in some form as a part of each tri- 
daily meal. 

I remember better than the attack deserves to be recol- 
lected, the strictures of a certain journal upon a mUd effort 
on my part to lead popular favor toward simple breakfasts 
of roUs, boUed eggs, tea or coffee, or if more substantial 
food were dejnanded, toward omelette, fondu, and por- 
ridge. 

"Such trash," the writer protested, "might do for lazy 
men and literary women, but the brawny laborer could 
not undertake a day's work after breakfasting upon a 
spongy composition of cream, bread-crumbs, and eggs. 
He must build up and sustain bone and muscle with 
strong meat." 



MEATS. 37 

In this persuasion is rooted tlie rustic devotion to salt 
pork and the rustic indifference to fruits and other vege- 
tables than cabbages, onions, and potatoes. Given the 
pork, the average cook knows but two ways of preparing 
it for the craving stomachs of the "men-folks." When 
she does not boil, she fries it. "A bit of butcher's meat " 
is a luxury, and as such appears on the farm-house board 
but seldom unless when served for visitors. It is usually a 
part of a " critter," slaughtered in the neighborhood and 
peddled by the slayer from door to door, and here again 
the methods of cooking it are primitive and few. If " a 
piece," it is roasted fast and long. If steak or chop, it is 
fried slowly and until no more fat can be absorbed and 
no more juice exude. The raw material is expensive ; 
after the second death — by fire — it is unmanageable alike 
by dental and digestive apparatus. 

We eat too much meat, and pay too much for what we 
buy. What are known to dealer and initiated purchaser 
as the " best cuts," form so small a proportion of the whole 
animal that the enterprising meat-vender is thrown upon 
his imagination to supply enough of these for really good 
customers. Hence the phenomenal porter-house and ten- 
derloin, the fiUets and spring-lamb that disgrace our 
housevrifery as much as they excruciate our pocket-nerves. 
Our merchant always fails to understand it. He paid at 
wholesale within a cent and a-half per pound of what he 
charged us. Mrs. Senator Toploft ordered the other 
joint, or companion-cut, for a grand dinner-party and sent 
word to Mr. Cleaver how much delighted she was with it. 

We are all cowards in the face of sounding statements 
of this kind, not one word of which we believe, and we 
avoid the speaker's eye while we pay " choice-cut " prices 
for chuck-rib, round-steak and "ram-lamb." 

The lesson of this talk, which is in danger of waxing 



38 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

into a tirade, is — when you cannot afford to pay for the 
best, ask boldly for the second-best. And out of this 
honest article, for -which you pay something like an honest 
sum, make nourishing, savory food by cooking it properly 
and ingeniously. Never buy tainted meat or fovrls, but 
bear in mind that "coarse" and "choice" are comparative 
terms, and that "roast" is, per se, no more elegant a term, 
than "stewed." Make a study of made-dishes and "left- 
overs," and do not despise scraps-^alwaya provided that 
these preserve their individuality and have not been hud- 
dled together into "messes." 



MUTTON. 



Roast Breast of Mutton. 

Lay in a dripping-pan, and half-fill this with warm — not 
hot — ^water slightly salted. Turn another pan of the same 
size as the lower upside down over the meat and cook in 
a moderate oven, thus covered, about twelve minutes to 
the pound, or until a fork goes easily iato the thickest 
part and is not followed by red gravy. In this time, baste 
six times with liquor from the pan. Have ready in a plate 
a handful of fine dry crumbs, salted and peppered. Ten 
minutes before taking up the meat, rub a tablespoonful of 
butter over it, and strew the crumbs thickly and evenly 
over the top. Or, you can omit the butter and wash well 
in gravy from the pan. Close the oven to brovm the 
crumbs and remove the meat to a hot dish. Cover, and 
keep warm over a pot of boiling water while you pour the 
gravy into a cold bowl or pan and set it out of doors in 
winter, in very cold water in summer to make the fat rise. 
Take all of this off, strain the gravy back into the drip- 



MUTTON. 39 

ping-pan, stir in enough browned flour wet with cold 
water to thicken it to the consistency of cream, boil up 
once, and send to table in a gravy-bowL 

Boiled Shoulder of Mutton. 

Get the butcher to take out the bones, and use them for 
Boup-stock. Fill the cavity left by their removal with a 
force-meat made of dry crumbs, peppered and salted, with 
a slice of fat salt pork chopped fine and a little minced 
thyme or parsley worked up in it. Sew the meat, up 
neatly in whatever shape you like, in stout mosquito-net- 
ting (white) and plimge into a pot of warm water in which 
has been stirred a tablespoonful of salt The water should 
cover the meat well and be just hot enough not to scald 
your hand. Bring slowly to the boil, and after this be- 
gins, cook fifteen minutes to the pound, still slowly. 

Half an hour before taking it up, dip out a cupful of 
liquor and cool fast to bring up the fat. Bemove this, 
put the liquid on in a saucepan and stir in a teaspoon- 
ful of butter cut up in a tablespoonful of flour. When it 
thickens, add (if convenient) a tablespoonful of chopped 
cucumber pickle, or pickled nastm^tium-seeds. These last 
are an excellent imitation of capers. Serve this sauce in 
a gravy-boat. 

Take the meat from the liquor when done, remove the 
cloth with care, lay the mutton in a hot dish, and dispose 
some shces of hard-boiled egg upon it. 

Very tough mutton can be made eatable by this process. 

Stewed Breast or Scrag of Mutton. 

Trim neatly and lay, skin-side downward, in a wide- 
mouthed pot. On and about the meat strew some shces 
of onion and a sliced turnip. Pour in two cups of cold 
water, and if you have it a cup of weak soup or gravy. 



40 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Heat gradually, and after the liquor begins to hiss around 
the edges, stew gently for one hour. Turn the meat and 
stew an hour longer. Taie it up, sprinkle with salt, cover 
in a hot dish and set over boiling water, while you strain 
the gravy, season with pepper and salt, thicken slightly 
with browned flour, and after pouring a cupful over the 
meat, serve the rest in a gravy-boat. 

When green peas and tomatoes are cheap and plentiful, 
you can shce a couple of the latter and add to the turnip 
and onion, then boil a pint of peas in a little salted water, 
drain and put them into the strained gravy when you re- 
turn it to the pot to heat and thicken. They are a pleas- 
ant addition to the dish. 

Stewed Mutton with Dumplings. 

2 lbs. lean mutton, cut into pieces an inch square. 
i of an onion, chopped. A slice of fat salt pork, 

minced. Chopped sweet herbs, pepper and salt 

to taste. 

1 tablespoonful of flour wet up ia cold water. 

2 cups of cold water. 

Put mutton, pork, and onion on in the cold water, and 
stew very slowly tmtil the meat is tender. Add herbs, 
seasoning, and stew ten minutea Take out the meat with 
a skimmer and put on a hot covered dish over a pot of 
boiling water to keep warm. 

Have ready the dumplings made according to this rule : 

1 cup of prepared flour — or floiu: mixed up well with 

i teaspoonful of soda and tvrice as much cream- 

of-tartar. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of lard. 

i cup of milk, or enough to enable you to roll out 

the paste. 
A little salt. 



MUTTON. 41 

Chop the lard into the prepared and Baited flour until 
thoroughly incorporated, wet up with the milk, and roll 
out ■with as Httle handling as possible into a sheet about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Cut into strips, and when you 
have stirred in the flour for thickening the gravy, and 
boiled one minute, drop in the strips, a few at a time, and 
cook from eight to ten minutes. Pile the meat in the cen- 
tre of the dish, arrange the dumplings like a hedge around 
itj and pour the gravy over all. 

This stew is improved by stirring into the gravy with the 
flour half a cup of milk in which a bit of soda the size of a 
pea has been dissolved. But it is a nice family dish with- 
out it 

Summer Stew of Mutton. 

2 lbs. coarse lean mutton cut into dice an inch square. 

Have a sharp knife and do this neatly. 

3 or 4 spoonfuls of nice dripping. 
^ of an onion, sliced. 

Pepper, salt, and summer savory. 

Sweet marjoram or parsley, chopped fine — 1 table- 
spoonful (heaping). 

Cold water enough to cover the meat. 

1 pint of green peas. 
Heat the dripping in a frying-pan, put in the meat and 
onion, and fry to a light brown, first dredging the meat 
with flour. Drain, and put these in a pot with the herbs, 
cover with cold water, and stew very slowly untU tender 
and ready to drop to pieces. Take the meat up with a 
skimmer, lay on a dish, and keep hot over boiling water 
while you skim and season' the gravy, thicken with a little 
browned flour, and add the pint of peas. Stew gently 
until these are done, return the meat to the pot, boil up 
one minute, and turn out into a heated dish. 

In winter you may substitute canned peas for fresh. 



42 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

A Brown Stew of Mutton. 

2 lbs. of lean mutton, cut into iuchTsquaxe pieces. 

^ onion, sliced. 

Dripping for frying. 

1 slice fat salt pork, minced. 

Chopped herbs. 

Pepper* salt, and (if you have it) a tablespoonful of 

tomato catsup. 
1 cup of liquor (cold) in which corned beef or mutton 
has been boiled, or of weals: broth, made from 
scraps and bones, then strained and skimmed. 
Pepper and salt for liberal seasoning. 
Browned flour. 
Fry the mutton and onion in the dripping, drain and 
put in a saucepan with the pork, herbs, and broth. Sim- 
mer gently imtil the nieat is tender and plump ; take up, 
and keep hot while you strain the gravy, heat to boiling, 
thicken with browned flour, and add the catsup. Bring 
to a boil, put in the meat again, boil one minute, and 
pour out. 

Mutton Pudding (No. 1). 

1 cupful of prepared flour, salted. 

1 cup of milk. 

legg. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

Cold roast or boiled mutton, cut into dice. 
Lay the meat in the melted butter, and set over hot 
water to make the one absorb the other, while you pre- 
pare the batter. Beat the egg very light, add the milk, 
then the flour. It should be a hatter, not paste. Butter a 
pie-dish, pour in a third of the batter, lay on this the but- 



MUTTON. 43 

tered meat, well-seasoned -with pepper and salt, fill up 
■with the batter, and bake half an hour in a good oven — 
that is, hot and steady. Serve at once, for batter soon 
falls. 

Mutton Pudding (No. 2). 
4 mealy potatoes, mashed fine while hot, with 1 

tablespoonful of butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of 

milk, 
legg. 

1 tablespoonful of prepared flour. 

2 cupfuls of eold mutton, mineed, seasoned highly, 

and wet to a soft paste with weak broth. 

Whip the potatoes, butter, and milk to a cream ; add 
€he egg, already beaten light, and whip all one minute 
before working in the flour. Put the moistened mutton 
in a greased pudding-dish, and spread the potato over it. 
Bake, covered, for forty minutes, then brown nicely. 

Minced beef — corned or fresh — is very good prepared 
in this way. 

Minced Mutton on Toast. 

1 cupful cold mutton, chopped. 

i cupful of drawn butter. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped onion, and same of minced 
sweet herbs. 

1 egg, well beaten. 

Pepper and salt. 

Stale bread cut into crustless rounds and toasted. 
To draw the butter, put half a cupful of hot water, in 
which the onion has steeped, then been strained out, in a 
saucepan. When it boils stir in a generous teaspoonful 
of butter, and, this melted, an equal quantity of flour, 
wet up with cold water. Stir until it begins to thicken, 



44 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

put in the meat, and this hot, the egg and herbs. Season,, 
toss, and stir for one minute, and set in boiling -water 
at the side of the stove where it will not cook while you 
get the toast-rounds ready. 

Lay these on a hot platter, and if you have gravy or 
soup-stock to spare, heat it, and pour a little on each 
piece. If vou have none, wet with boUing, salted water, 
butter, and heap equal spoonfuls of the mince on it. 

Another Mince of Mutton. 

Prepare the mince as directed in the last receipt, but 
moisten it more abundantly, using a cupful of drawn but- 
ter. Grease a pudding-dish ; strew a good coating of dry 
crumbs on the bottom, pour the minced meat on this, 
cover with an inverted plate or tin " lid," and bake until 
it bubbles all over the top. Draw to the oven-door and 
break quickly four or five eggs on the surface, drop a few 
bits of butter, with pepper and salt, on them, and shut upi 
again until the whites are set. 

Serve in the dish in which it is cooked. 



VEAL. 



Stewed Breast of Veal. 

Eemove the largest bone, and fill the cavity left with a 
force-meat of crumbs, pepper, salt, and a little fat pork 
cut up fine. Pin vwth skewers into a good shape and lay 
it in a broad pot, on the bottom of which are several 
thin slices of fat salt pork, well peppered. Put two or 
three more on the veal, pour in a cup of hot water, and fit 
a close cover on the pot. If you have no lid that exactly 
fits it, use several thicknesses of stout paper — not printed 
— to fill out the cracks around the edges. Or cover the 



VEAL. 4S 

pot with a folded cloth and press the lid down on this, 
setting a flat-iron on it, to exclude the air and keep in the 
steam. Heat slowly, and do not open the pot for one hour. 
Then, turn the meat over, cover again, and do not touch it 
for another hour. All this time it should be gently sim- 
mering, never quite still, yet never cooking rapidly. When 
the two hours are up, remove the veal to a hot dish, pick 
out the pork and lay around it, and keep all warm over 
boiling water ; while you strain the gravy, heat it, thicken 
with browned flour, and (if convenient) add some juice 
from a can of tomatoes. Pour a few spoonfuls over the 
dished meat. Send the rest to table in a boat. A knuckle 
of veal may be thus prepared. 

Veal cooked in this way is juicy, digestible, and savory. 

Veal Scallop. 

A good dish to succeed the stewed breast of yesterday. 

To 2 cups of minced cold veal allow a cup of dry 
bread-crumbs. Season the meat spicily, and have ready 
a cup of gravy or broth with which to wet the crumbs. If 
you have not enough, make out the quantity with warmed 
milk. Strew the bottom of a pudding-dish with crumbs, 
scatter some butter-bits with salt and pepper on it, and a 
few spoonfuls of Uquor — broth or milk. A thicker stra- 
tum of minced veal comes next, then, more crumbs, etc. 
When the veal is used up, cap thi^ top with crumbs, weU- 
moistened, cover as closely as you can and bake half an 
hour before uncovering, in order to brown the surface. 
Send to table in the pudding-dish. 

Veal Pie. 

2 pounds lean veal ; a slice of corned (not smoked) 
ham ; 1 hard-boiled egg ; flour for thickening ; pepper and 
salt ; paste for crust ; 1 tablespoonf ul butter. 



46 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Cut the meat into dice, and stew tender in enough cold 
■water to cover it well Fill a deep baike^dish with this, 
interspereing the hard-boUed egg, minced small. Oiit up 
a tablespoonfol of butter ia one of flour, and stir into the 
liquor in which the meat was cooked. Pour into the dish 
over the meatj cover with the paste, and bake in a good 
oven untU brovmed. 

Make the crust by rubbing a tablespoonful of lard or 
nice dripping into a cupful of prepared flour, salting it, 
and wetting it up with a little milk. Water will do, but 
is not quite so good. Eoll out with a few quick passes of 
the rolling-pin into a sheet half an inch thick, and lay 
over the pie, printing orpinchiag hard at the edges. Make 
a gash or two in the middle, to allow the escape of the 
heated air. Use a top-crust only with meat-pies. 

Savory Stew of Veal. 

3 lbs. knuckle of veal or other "coarse"' part. 

^ lb. corned pork, fat. 

■J an onion. 

Chopped sweet herbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

^ can tomatoes. 

Browned flour. 
Cut the meat from the bones in neat strips, and set 
aside in a cool place while you make the gravy. Do this 
by putting the bones — weU-broken up — with the onion 
and herbs into a saucepan, covering them with a quart of 
cold water, and stewing down gently until the hquid is re- 
duced by one-half. This should take several hours. Just 
before you take it off, fry the veal in nice dripping, put it 
in a pot and strain the hot gravy over it. Chop pork and 
tomatoes fine and add with the seasoning. Cover closely^ 



VEAL. 47 

and simmer for two hours. Thicken with browned floiir 
wet up in cold water, boil up once and dish. 

If you put on the bones, etc., for the gravy before break- 
fast, you can easUy have the stew for an early dinner. As 
will be seen by looking over the directions, the prepara- 
tion requires Uttle labor or expenditure of time. As with 
most stews, the excellence depends mainly upon slow and 
steady simmering. 

Veal Cutlets. 

2 lbs. veal cutlets, trimmed into a neat shape. 

1 lb. ham. 

1 egg, beaten light. 

Crushed cracker — about half a cupful. 

Pepper and salt. 

Dripping. 
Cut the veal and ham into strips two inches wide, three 
long, and half an inch thick. Boll, first in the egg, then 
in the crumbs. Have the dripping hissing in the pan, 
and fry the ham, then the veal, turning as they brown. 
Take up, pepper the ham, pepper and salt the veal, and 
tay on a hot dish in alternate and overlapping shoes. Eat 
fresh and hot. 

N.B. — Never throw away a drop of " dripping " skimmed 
from the top of gravies and soups. Melt it down, and 
strain, while hot, through a coarse cloth ; set away in a 
cold place, and use instead of lard and butter for frying. 

Veal Chops 

Cost less than cutlets, are less dry, and more wholesome. 
Trim into shapeliness, and broil on a warm gridiron, 
turning several times. Lay on a hot dish, pepper, salt, 
and put a bit of butter on each into which has been 
worked nome finely chopped parsley. 



48 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Or, dip in egg and cracker-crumbs, and fry as you 
would cutlets. 

When you can do so conveniently, serve tomatoes, 
stewed or baked, with veaL 

Calfs Head. 

I have hesitated to give any preparation of calf's head 
as cheap, in the unpleasing recollection of my surprise, 
when having once ordered one for soup, I received with it 
a bill for $1.25 ! 

" We had to order by Express from Boston," was the 
cool response to my expostulation. "There wasn't a 
calf's head to be had in our town ! " 

"Not in your establishment!" cried a graceless youth 
present. "That does surprise me." 

I could not reprove the impertinence as severely as it 
merited, for, up to that hour, I had never paid more than 
forty cents for a dressed calf's head that furnished soup 
and meat for a dinner. In the country I have had the 
head given, the butcher charging fifteen cents for cleaning 
it. This is done by scalding it whole in boiling water, 
after rubbing pounded rosin well into the hair to make it 
come off more readily. A handful of potash or of clean 
wood-ashes stirred and boiled into the water will loosen 
the hairs. Split the head lengthwise to get at the brains. 

Wash the head carefully in cold water, remove the 
brains, and set them by in a cold place. Soak the head 
one hour in cold, salted water, then put it over the fire 
with three quarts of boUing water, and cook gently an 
hour and a half, or until tender. Take it out without 
breaking or tearing it, and lay in cold water five minutes 
to make it firm. Wipe dry, set in a dripping-pan, brush 
over with beaten egg, dust thickly with cracker-crumbs, 
invert a pan over it, and bake half an houi- before remov- 



VEAL. 49 

ing the cover, and bro\mmg it for perhaps ten minutea 
more. As it browns, baste with a cupful of the liquor in 
which it was boiled. Transfer to a hot dish, strain the gravy 
left in the pan, thicken with browned flour, boil up, pour 
a few spoonfuls over the head, the rest into a gravy-boat. 
The liquor in which a calf's head is boiled makes deli- 
cious soup for the next day's dinner. You can treat the 
stock as you would that made from bones or chopped 
meat, but instead of adding tapioca or sago, after clearing 
it, thicken with two tablespoonfuls of brovmed flour and a 
quarter spoonful of allspice rubbed up with a tablespoonf ul 
of butter and the juice of a lemon. Drop in force-meat balls 
made of calf's brains, scalded for ten minutes in boiling 
water, rubbed smooth in a bowl, seasoned well, and beaten 
light with a raw egg and a teaspoonf ul of flour put in to 
hold the ingredients together. Flour your hands, make 
the mixture into small balls, and keep cold until the soup 
boils. Drop in gently, cook five minutes, take up with a split 
spoon, put into the tureen, and pour the soup over them. 

Cal-fs Liver {larded). 

Soak a whole calf's liver (that is, not sliced) iu cold, 
salted water for half an hour. Wipe dry ; with a narrow- 
bladed knife make incisions in the liver, holding the knife 
perpendicularly. The sUts should be half an inch apart, 
and run quite through from top to bottom. Into these 
thrust strips of fat salt pork, long enough to project 
above and below. Put the liver into a saucepan that 
has a tight-fitting lid, sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped onion, some sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Pour 
in two cupfuls of cold water, and set where it will not 
boil under an hoiu-, keeping the Hd on. Open at the end 
of this time, baste well with the water, put the lid back to 
keep in steam and flavor, and cook slowly, never boilLng 
•6 



so COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

hard, for another hour. Then boil up briskly for one 
minute, and take out the liver. Keep hot on a dish ; 
strain the gravy back into the saucepan, thicken with 
browned flour, boil up once, and put into a gravy-dish. 
Carve the liver horizontally, at table. It will be found 
singularly tender and good, if these directions are exactly 
obeyed. 

Calf's Liver— Smothered. 

2 lbs. liver, shced half an inch thick. 

^ lb. fat salt pork or fat bacon, chopped. 

2 tablespoonfuls minced onion. 

1 tablespoonful sweet herbs, chopped or powdered. 

Pepper. The pork salts it. 

Cover the bottom of a tin pail with chopped pork, lay 
in some of the liver, sprinkle with onion, herbs, and pork, 
then another stratum of Hver, and more pork, until all are 
used up. Fit a dose cover on the paU, and set ia a pot 
of cold water. Bring slowly vrithia a few degrees of a 
boil — that is, to the scalding, but not bubbluig point, 
and keep it at this for an hour. Then increase the heat' 
until the water in the pot boils steadily, and leave it an 
hour longer. Now, for the fir§t time, open the inner pail, 
take out the tender, unctuous liver, and" keep it hot in a 
covered dish over boiling water. Set the pail directly on 
the stove, thicken the gravy with browned flour wet up 
in cold water, boil two minutes, pour over the hver, and 
send to table. Beefs liver, also pig's hver, may becooked 
in the same way. 

Breakfast Stew of Liver. 

1 lb. cold, cooked calf's (or beef's or pig's) liver. 

2 sHces cold boiled pork or ham. 
1 tablespoonful minced onion. 



VEAL. 5 1 

Pepper and sweet herbs to taste. 

1 cup of weak broth made from soup or gravy. 

Bi-owned flour. 

Chop the liver and pork into coarse bits. Heat broth, 
onion, and herbs in a saucepan, and when these boil, put 
in the meat. Draw to a place on the stove where it will 
not quite boil, stir now and then for ten minutes, or untU 
the whole mass is smoking hot ; add a tablespoonful of 
brovmed flpur wet with cold water, boil once, and turn 
out. 

If you have in the pantry half a cupful or so of stewed 
tomato saved from yesterday, add to the gravy before 
liver and pork go in. 

Spiced Liver. 

Treat exactly as you do larded liver (see receipt on 
page 49) until the larding is done. Then have ready in a 
frying-pan some hot dripping, with a tablespoonful of 
minced onion. Lay the Hver in this, and fry five minutes, 
turn over, and cook for the same time, or until it is of a 
pale brown. Put all into a close saucepan, add two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and a cup of warm (not hot) water. 
Cover closely, and simmer for an hour and a half without 
lifting the Hd. Take out the liver, and keep hot on a dish 
over boiling water ; strain the gravy, return to the sauce- 
pan with a teaspoonful of mixed mace and allspice 
(ground) ; thicken vrith browned flour, boil once, put the 
liver in again, and set in hot water five minutes, turning 
the liver over tvrice before dishing it. Lay the livfer on 
the heated platter ; send the gravy in in a boat. 

This is very nice cold for tea, almost as good as whec • 
hot. 



52 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

BEEF. 



Boiled Beef with Vegetables. 

6 lbs. of lean beef, larded with strips of salt pork, and 
bound into shape by a broad band of muslin 
sewed about it. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

2 small onions. 

2 cupa of string beans cut into inch lengths. 

2 potatoes, peeled and parboiled for fifteen minutes. 

2 beets, parboiled for one hour. 

Pepper and salt. 

4 quarts of boUing water. 

Put the beef into a broad pot when you have thrust the 
pork lardoons thickly throiigh it. (The larding should 
not be done until the strip of cloth is secured around the 
sides.) Cover with the water, and cook slowly, twelve 
minutes to the pound. An hour before the time is up, 
dip out a quart of the liquor, strain, cool until the fat 
rises, skim, and heat in another pot. Put the prepared 
vegetables — leaving out the potatoes — into this, and cook 
tender. Fifteen minutes before taking them out, drop in 
the potatoes. 

Undo the cincture from the beef, trim off ragged and 
rusty edges, and lay it upon a hot dish. Slice the vege- 
tables — excepting, of course, the beans — and lay aU in nfcat 
heaps about the meat, each by itself. Pepper, salt, and 
butter, and keep very hot to the last. 

Make a sauce by cooling and skimming a cupful of 
liquor taken from the pot an hour ago, heating it to a 
boU, stirring in a tablespoonful of butter cut up in a tea- 



BEEF. 53 

spoonful of flour, boiling up once, and seasoning with 
salt, pepper, and made mustard. Serve in a gi-avy-dish. 

The pot-liquor must be reserved for to-morrow's soup. 
This is an elegant variation of the " boiled dinner " much 
afifected by farmers and those who were reared on farms. 
In the season other vegetables may be added. 

Braised Beef. 

Take a good, firm piece of beef weighing four or five 
pounds, and without bone, trim neatly, and put into a 
wide-mouthed pot. Strew some sliced onion over it, with 
pepper and salt, add a cup of boiHag water, fit on a tight 
top, and cook slowly one hour and a half, turning once 
during this time. The water should be reduced to half 
the original quantity. Dredge the meat with flour when 
you have taken from the pot, lay in a dripping-pan, pour 
the gravy over the top, and brown for ten minutes, bast- 
ing five times. There should be a brown glaze on the 
surface. Transfer to a hot dish, and keep warm. Add a 
Kttle boiling water to the gravy, strain, and set in cold 
water to throw up the fat ; skim this off, heat in a sauce- 
pan, thicken with browned flour, boil up once, and serve. 

Tough meat may be made eatable in this way by cook- 
ing two hours. The steam from the hot water and seeth- 
ing meat should do most of the work. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Bind about the upright sides of a roimd of beef a band 
of stout, unbleached muslin. Stitching the overlapping 
ends together. Make perpendicular incisions with a 
sharp knife an inch apart, and plug these alternately with 
lardoons of salt pork and a spiced force-meat made of 
chopped pork and onion and bread-crumbs soaked in 



54 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

■vinegai, all seasoned highly with allspice and maee. Eub 
this well into the upper surface of the beef also. Lay in a 
dripping-pan ; pour enough boiling water over it to half- 
fill the pan ; cover closely, and cook very slowly, basting 
often, for at least three hours. 

Leave the meat in the gravy all night with a heavy 
weight on top. Next day remove the muslin band, trim 
the beef iato neat form, and when you use it cut horizon- 
taUy. 

A tough, leathery round, or a piece of very " chuck-rib," 
can be bound into comeliness and made reaJly good if 
treated as above. If you have a broad pot with a close 
cover, cook it in that, leaving it in four or five hours. The 
liquor in which it was cooked — when the caked fat has 
been taken from the top — makes excellent soup-stock. 

Beef Steak. 

If you cannot afford to buy porter-house steak, get the 
best you can ; have it cut an inch thick, at least, and in 
cold weather keep it several days to " mellow." If you 
want to use it the day it is bought, hack it closely from 
end to end, lengthwise, crosswise, and on both sides, with 
a dull, heavy knife. Having done this, rub the juice of a 
lemon deeply into it, and set it by for three or four hours. 
If you have not a lemon, use a tablespoonful or two of sharp 
vinegar. Broil the steak without washing or wiping off the 
acid over a clear fire, turning often that it may not drip. 
In twelve minutes it should be done for those who like it 
rare. Lay on a hot dish, pepper and salt ; put bits of 
butter all over the surface. Cover with another hot dish, 
and let it stand five minutes — not longer — before sending 
to table, to draw out the juices. Steak and chops lose 
their flavor if not served soon after they are cooked. 



BEEF. ■ 55 



Beef Stew. 



2 lbs. of lean beef— the "inferior" bits -wiQ do, 

brisket or round. 
■J- onion, chopped. 
■J- teaspoonf ul of allspice. 
1 tablespoonful of sweet herbs minced, thyme, p£irs- 

ley, marjoram. 
Pepper and salt. 

1 tablespoonful browned flour. 

2 cups cold water. 

Cut the meat into inch-square dice. Put into a sauce- 
pan with the water, fit on a close top, and set where it will 
heat gradually, but not boU under an hour. Move it then 
to a spot where it will just bubble, and stew an hour and 
a half longer, all the while closely covered. Add onion, 
spice, herbs, and seasoning, and stew, covered, half an 
hour longer. The meat should be so tender as to fall to 
pieces when a fork pierces it. Stir in the browned flour 
and boil one minute. Send to table in a deep dish. It 
should be deliciously savory, if this receipt be exactly 
obeyed. Slow boiling in a close vessel, and piquante 
seasoning, are the essentials to success. 

Roast Beef. 

oeic yj the meat in a clean dripping pan ; pour a cup of 
r^^ing water all over it, set in a moderate oven, and do 
riot open under half an hour. After that, baste every ten 
minutes plentifully with the water on the pan, pouring 
ladleful after ladleful on the smoking meat. Do this 
quickly, not to lower the heat of the oven. Allow ten min- 
utes to the pound in roasting. Five or six minutes before 
taking it up, sift flour pretty thickly over the top of the 



56 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

meat ; shut the oven until this begins to bro-wn, stir salt to 
taste in the gravy, and baste the roast liberally with this. 
Leave in the oven two minutes, transfer the beef to a hot 
dish, and keep warm while you pour the gravy into a bowl ; 
wait a few moments to let the fat rise, skim it off, strain 
the gravy into the dripping-pan, heat to boiling on the 
top of the stove, and thicken with browned flour wet up in 
cold water. Boil once and pour into a gravy-boat. 

Many people do not like made gravy with roast beef, 
preferring the red essence that flows from it when carved. 
But save the contents of the dripping-pan for dripping 
and the substratum for the " cup of gravy " required for 
so many made dishes. , 

Irish Stew. 

2 lbs. of lean beef, leaving out bone and gristle, cut 
into inch-square bits. 

^ onion, chopped. 

4 large or six small potatoes, parboiled for ten min- 
utes, then sliced. 

Pepper and salt. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 quart of cold water. 

Put meat on in the water, cover and stew gently one 
hour and a haK, or until tender. Add onion and season- 
ing ; stew half an hour, and drop in the sliced potatoes. 
They should not be too thin, or they wiU boil to pieces. 
Simmer ten minutes longer, or until the potatoes are 
soft all through, stir in. the flour wet up in cold water (or 
half a cup of milk if you can spare it), and boil one minute. 
Take up the meat first with a split spoon, heap on a hot flat 
dish, and arrange the potatoes about it like a hedge. 
Serve both to each person helped. 



BEEF. 57 

Beef ^eak and Onions. 

Cook the steak as directed on page 54. Have in a fry- 
ing-pan some dripping heated to hissing. Slice two small 
onions, or one large one, thin, and fry quickly dui-ing 
three of the five minutes spent by the steak under cover, 
to draw the juices to the surface. Drain the onions in a 
colander, and turn and spread smoking hot upon the 
steak. Cover closely, leave it for two minutes, and send 
to table. 

The flavor imparted to the steak by this style of serving 
onions with it is incomparably more pleasant thain that of 
the dish generally known vmder the above title. 

Scalloped Beef. 

1 cup minced beef, boiled or roast, corned or fresh. 

•J cup soup or gravy. 

1 cup cold mashed potato. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

J cup of milk. 

1 beaten egg. 

•J teaspoonful made mustard. 

Pepper and salt. 

Handful of fine crumbs. 
Put the mashed potato, hot, into a bowl, and whip hght 
and powdery with a fork. Beat in gradually the butter, 
the milk, finally with your egg-beater (I hope you have a 
" Dover ! ") the whipped egg. Salt to taste, and whip to a 
smooth cream. Season the minced meat highly, moisten 
with gravy, work in the mustard, and put it into a greased 
pie-dish when ready. Spread the prepared potato over all 
smoothly, sift fine crumbs on the surface, and set in a 
quick oven until nicely browned. 
3* 



S8 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Beef Pie. 

Cut 2 lbs. of lean beef into inch-lengths, put into a pot 
•with half of a sliced onion, cover with cold water and stew 
gently one hour. Parboil in another pot three or four pota- 
toes. Let all get nearly or quite cold while you make a crust 
like that directed on page 46. Strain the gravy from the 
meat, sMm off the fat and season. Stir into it a table- 
spoonful of browned flour, but do not heat it. Lay in a 
pie or pudding-dish some of the meat, weU-seasoned, cov- 
er with sliced potato, salted and peppered. Proceed in 
this order untU the materials are used up, pour in the gravy, 
and fit on the crust, not forgetting the sht in the middle. 

Potato-crust for Beef Pie. 

1 cup cold mashed potalto. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter, and the same of 

clean beef-dripping. 
Yolk of 1 egg, beaten light. 

2 tablespoonfuls of prepared flour. 
Salt to taste. 

1 cup of milk. 
Beat the butter and dripping into the potato, then the 
egg, salt, and milk ; when all are light, the flour. There 
should be just enough of this last to hold the paste to- 
gether. Eoll out into a pretty thick sheet, handling it 
carefully, and spread over your pie. 

Corned Beef (hot^ 
It is not economical to buy any piece of meat that has 
much bone in it. Corned beef is no exception to the rule. 
The brisket, however, is a good and fairly cheap family 
dish, selling several cents less in the pound than the round. 
This last, unless too fat — and this must be guarded against 
— is perhaps the best, even for small purses. 



BEEF. 59 

Soak the meat five or six hours in plenty of cold water, 
■when you have washed off the salt and scum. Put then 
into a pot, cover deep in warm, not boiling water, and 
bring slowly to the boil. Cook fifteen minutes per pound. 
It is a good plan to bind it into shape with strong twine 
before it goes into the pot. Eemove the pot from the fire 
and leave with the meat in it on the table or sink, while 
you make drawn butter to go with it, using for this pur- 
pose a strained cupful of the liquor, adding a tablespoon- 
ful of butter as it heats, a heaping tablespoonful of flour 
wet up in cold water, boiling up once and stirring in some 
chopped green pickle. 

Transfer the beef to a hot dish, and send the sauce in 
in a boat. Save the pot-hquor for bean, pea, and other 
vegetable soups. The fat from the top makes tolerable 
dripping. 

Pressed Corned Beef. 

When you dish the hot meat, set over the fire a sauce- 
pan containing a cupful of the hquor, with a teaspoonful 
of chopped onion in it. When the meal is over, and 
while the meat is still warm, tear, rather than cut it apart 
with knife and fork, separating fat and lean. Shred the 
latter with the fork and chop the fat fine. Pack a layer 
of the lean in a small pan or a tin pail, moisten with the 
hot liquor when you have strained and peppered it. Do 
not get it wet — only juicy. Now press on the lean a 
thinner layer of minced fat, then a second of lean moist- 
ened, and so on until the meat is used up. Lay on the 
top a stout plate or saucer that works easily inside of the 
tin mould, set two heavy smoothing-irons or a stone, or 
the weights from your scales, on the plate, and put aside 
in a cold place until next day. 

Turn out of the mould and carve in thin slices. 



6o COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Beef Hash. 

To cold corned or roast beef, minced and freed from 
gristle and strings, add an equal quantity of mashed 
potato. Mix together well, and season with pepper and 
salt. Put into a frying-pan a large cupful of boiling 
water, with half as much gravy from which the fat has 
been skimmed, and a teaspoonful of made mustard. If 
you have no gravy, substitute soup-stock, or a cupful of 
soup left over from yesterday. Boil up briskly before 
stirring in the chopped meat and potato. Toss and stir 
imtil the contents of the pan are a bubbling, smoking 
heap. Be careful that the hash is not too stiff. Add 
more boiling water should the meat and potato absorb the 
liquid too rapidly, and do not let the hash stick to the 
bottom of the pan. The country housekeeper, who has 
plenty of butter, can improve this dish by stirring a table- 
spoonful into the hot water and gravy. If she has neither 
gravy nor " stock," let her double the quantity of butter, 
dissolving in the boiling water. Serve in a deep, covered 
dish. 

A friend of mine had a cook, Justina by name, and Ital- 
ian by nationahty, whose modest boast, when kitchen-lore 
was imder discussion, was, " Well, I suttialy " (certainly) 
" can make a puffeckly good, upright hash." 

It is not a common accomplishment. The very name 
" hash " is a by-word and a hissing, fraught with associa- 
tions of second-class boarding-houses and boarding-schools, 
where gristly, fatty, lumpy hashes relieve guard with sour, 
smoked, and garlicky, and all are miscellaneous in compo- 
sition, iimutritious in effect. It is such cidinary failures 
that bring disgrace and suspicion upon "made" dishes. 
I know a family where the manufacture of these is a study 
and a success. The grown members of the household own, 



BEEF. 6 1 

•without a blush, to a preference for " surprise-scrap-din- 
ners," and the eight-year-old daughter, on being allowed 
to make out the bill-of-fare for her birthday dinner, pro- 
duced, after much thought, the following menu : " Mock- 
turtle soup, larded sweetbreads, fried potatoes, bananas, 
white grapes, ice-cream, and hash ! " 

Do not, then, stir your hash to an indiscriminate, clay- 
like mortar, or convert it into a lump of pudding-stone by 
leaving chunks of potato and gristle uncompounded in the 
whole. Chop meat and mash potato ; cook only until it 
begins to boil all along the line, and season smartly. 

Chipped Beef. 

Instead of serving dried (chipped) beef in the crude 
state in which it is sent home from market, cut it up small 
and boil in clear water fifteen minutes. Drain dry, and 
put into a frying-pan with a teaspoonf ul of butter and a 
little pepper. Stir until " frizzling " hot, when turn out 
into a hot dish. 

Or, when eggs are plenty, break a couple into a bowl, 
and beat just enough to mix yolk and white. Stir these 
into the beef, treated as above, just before taking it off, 
tossing aU together for a minute to mingle the ingredients 
well. 

Still another way. — Chop the beef after boiling it. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter into the frying-pan, and when it 
hisses add three or four sHces of onion. Fry three min- 
utes, take out the onion and turn in the beef. Any and 
all of these methods of preparing dried beef are prefer- 
able to serving it raw. 



62 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



PORK. 



Pork and Beans. 

1 quart of dried white beans. 

•J lb. of streaked salt pork. 

1 tablespoonful of molasses. 

1 teaspoonful (small) of made mustard. 
Soak the beans overnight in cold water. Throw this 
away in the morning, and cover well with water a little 
more than lukewarm. Soak two hours, drain, and put on in 
a pot well covered with cold water ; boil gently until soft, 
but not broken. Meanwhile, boil for ten minutes a square 
half pound of pork ; take it up, score the top in lines the 
width of a slice apart ; drain the beans, put them into a 
bake-dish, season with molasses and mustard, and bury 
the pork up to the rind in the middle. Cover with boil- 
ing water, fit on a tin 'lid, or a stout plate, to keep in the 
steam. Codk in a moderate oven three hours, then un- 
cover and brown lightly. 

Stewed Pork. 

2 lbs. lean fresh pork, from the leg, or " trimmings " 

left from cutting up pigs. 
4 large potatoes, parboUed. 
Pepper, salt, and dried sweet herbs to taste. 
1 teaspoonful of minced onion. 
Cut the pork into inch-long strips, put into a pot with 
two cups of cold water, and stir slowly one hour. Cut the 
parboiled potatoes into dice an inch square and add to the 
^ew with onion, herbs, and seasoning. A little tomato- 



PORK. 63 

catsup mil improve the flavor. Cook slowly forty min- 
utes, and serve in a deep dish. 



Salt Pork and Potato Stew. 

i lb. salt pork, chopped small. 
12 or 14 small potatoes. 
J onion, minced. 

1 large tablespoonful minced parsley. 
Pepper and a little salt. 

2 cups of hot water. 

This is a good way of using up small bullet-like old 
potatoes. Parboil them and rub the skins off. Drop into 
a pot with the minced pork, onion, and hot water, and cook 
slowly about forty-five minutes. Add parsley and pep- 
per with salt (if needed), simmer five minutes %.nd turn 
out. You may, if convenient, add at the last half a cup 
of milk into which you have stirred a small teaspoonful of 
flour. Boil one minute after these go in. 



Pork Chops. 

Trim off most of the fat, and put it into a hot frying- 
pan. Fry quickly until the grease is all extracted, strain 
the fat, salt slightly, return to the frying-pan, and cook 
the chops slowly, that they may be done to the bone. 
Lay them on a hot dish ; add half a cup of boihng water 
to the fat left in the pan, with a teaspoonful of minced 
onion and half as much minced sage, green or dry, with 
(if you have it) a tablespoonful of tomato-catsup or twice 
as much juice from canned tomatoes, pepper and salt. 
Simmer three minutes, stir in a teaspoonful of browned 
flour, boil up once and pour over the chops. 



64 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Pork Pie. 



2 lbs. lean fresh pork. 

4 winter apples, tart and juicy. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of brown sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Good plain crust made as for veal pie, page 46. 

Pepper, salt, mace, and a pinch of cloves. 

Browned flour. 
Cut the pork into inch-lengths, cover with a cup of cold 
water, and stew gently half an hour. Let it get cold, 
sMm the fat from the gravy, take out the pork and ar- 
range a layer in the bottom of a pudding-dish. Season 
with pepper and salt. On this spread sliced apple, 
sprinkled with sugar, spice, and butter-bits. Proceed in 
this order until pork and apples are used up, having ap- 
ples for the upper layer. Pepper and salt the gravy, stir 
in the browned flour, pour it into the pie, and cover with 
the pastry. 

Bake forty-five minutes, not too fast. 
Eat hot, and only make it in cold weather. It is very 
nice. 

Pork-and-Pea Pudding. 

i lb. streaked fat pork. 

1 quart dried peas — or small white kidney beans. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 

Soak the peas or beans all night in cold water. In the 
morning exchange this for lukewarm, and soak two hours 
longer. Then put them over the fire in plenty of cold 
water, and boil until tender, but not broken. Drain, and 
rub throu^ a colander until only husks are left, and sea- 



PORK. 6$ 

BOH the hot pulp mth pepper and salt Beat in the but- 
ter, lastly the whipped eggs thoroughly. The mixture 
should be smooth and thick. Flour a pudding-cloth, 
pour in the pudding, leaving plenty of room for swelliijg. 

The pork should also have been soaked overnight, but 
not with the peas. Ten minutes before the pudding is 
ready for boiUng put on the pork in hot water, which 
must boil hard when the pudding is dropped in. Keep 
at a steady boil for one hour. Take up the pork, and 
dice neatly. Dip the pudding-bag for one minute in cold 
water to loosen the contents from the sides, untie, and 
turn out the pudding upon a flat dish, arranging the 
diced pork about it. Serve at once. 

What is left of this dish is good sliced and fried. Some 
like a httle onion and celery boiled with the peas. 

Barbecued Ham. 

Cut liberal sHces of cold ham, and fry in their own fat. 
When they are done take out of the pan, and arrange on 
a hot dish. Keep warm while you add to the gravy a 
teaspoonful of made mustard, a good pinch of pepper, a 
saltspoonful of white sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of 
■vinegar. Mix these weU together before stirring into the 
gravy ; heat aU to a sharp boil, pour over the ham, and 
let it stand, covered, for a minute before sending to the 
table. 

There is nothing more appetizing than this dish. The 
very odor is provocative of himger and suggestive of good 
cheer. 

Bacon and Apples. 

Cut thin sUces of breakfast bacon, and fry quickly, 
taking them up the instant they are done, and laying on 
a hot dish. In the fat left in the pan fry round slices of 



66 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

firm applea — not too tart — which have been cored but not 
pared. Turn as they brown, and as fast as they are 
cooked take out of the fat, that they may not soak up 
grease. When all are ready, arrange in the middle of a 
flat dish and lay the fried bacon around them. 

A homely dish, but if cooked as above directed, so good 
that you will be solicited to repeat the experiment once 
and again. 

Bacon and apples consort agreeably and wholesomely 
with Graham biscuit. 

Sausages. 

Buy, when you can, the sausage-meat "in bulk," in pref- 
erence to that put up in skins. It is cheaper, goes further, 
and is more easily cooked. Make into round cakes, flour- 
ing your hands that the meat may not stick to them. 
Have ready a warm frying-pan, put in the sausages, and 
cook over a clear fire, in. their own grease. Instead of 
sending to table swimming in fat, take each out on a split 
spoon or broad fork, and lay on a hot dish. The gravy 
(lard) strained from the frying-pan, being highly seasoned, 
wUl do to use for frying eggs or potato croquettes. The 
sausages look nicer and are less unwholesome without it.^ 



FAMILIAE TALK. 



COUNTRY BOARDING. 

The following paragraph, clipped from a newspaper 
lying on my table, is the text for our talk upon a matter 
which is getting to be almost as truly " the vexed ques- 
tion" as domestic service iu America. 

A gentleman and lady in the month 6t August boarded in au in- 
terior town with a widow and her two daughters. Soda-bread, hot 
at every meal, and pork were the diet ; never a bit of meat nor a 
chicken killed ; not an egg cooked, and never a vegetable plucked 
from the garden, nor milk offered in quantities to be drunk. Other 
parties boarded two weeks on the sea-coast in the month of August, 
and ate hot soda-bread and fish, not once seeing a bit of fresh meat 
of any kind. The cooking was excellent of its kind, and the table 
■ and house were as neat as wax-work. — Brunswick {Me.) Telegraph. 

Almost a score of years ago I wrote for a popular 
monthly a series of saucy sketches entitled, "Taking 
Boarders for Company." These professed to depict the 
miseries of a city family, seduced by an advertising letter 
from home and comfort to tempt the uncertainties of 
summer board in a farm-house. When I read the articles 
in print they seemed to me rollicking caricatures, the best 
point of which was that, taking probabilities with im- 
probabilities, the story hung well together. To my sur- 
prise, and at first amusement, at last to my chagrin, I was 



68 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

pelted with letters from all parts of the country — from 
farm-house boarders and from farm-house keepers — grate- 
ful, deprecatory, defensive, and menacing. A few were 
coarsely abusive, and, to cap the climax, I finally received 
formal intimation that unless I promptly and publicly re- 
tracted certain statements contained in the offensive pa- 
pers, a Ubel suit would be instituted by an aggrieved 
spinster, who had for many years "solaced the solitude 
of rural seclusion by opening her hospitable doors during 
the summer season to guests from the city." 

I took no notice of letter or threat, and heard nothing 
more of the libel suit. But the inference of the expe- 
rience was not to be mistaken. Instead of a burlesque, I 
had achieved a pre-Kaphaelite cartoon that commended 
itself alike to oppressor and oppressed. I have seen much 
since to confirm the opinion then formed that summer 
boarding, while it is becoming more and more general 
every year, is, as a rule, conducted upon principles that 
would insure the ruin of any other business. 

I would make it plain at the outset that I do not deny 
the exactions, the rudeness, and general unreasonableness 
of many of the mighty army of vagrants from city streets 
that overrun sea-shore and farm with each recurring heated 
term. They mean as resolutely to save money as their 
hosts intend to make it. They are captious as to feather- 
beds, intolerant of husk mattresses ; sarcastic upon salt 
pork, consumptive pillows, and dingy coverlets; and in 
the trifles of clean towels, poultry, cream, and fresh vege- 
tables, " pennickety " — as the New England Mrs. Billickin 
would put it, beyond rhyme or reason known in Berk- 
shire, or dreamed of in the Mohawk Valley or Jersey 
Mountains. I confess freely and promptly that they hire 
board and lodgings of Mrs. Billickin with the foul design 
of getting for every dollar paid down the value of one 



COUNTRY BOARDING. 69 

hundred cents in health and comfort. But I find no spe- 
cification in common sense or ia business precedent 
to the effect that the boarders are, over and above the 
money's worth, under personal and usually painful obli- 
gations to the BillicMns — one and all — for the privilege 
accorded them of spending so many weeks or months 
under their root 

If the curious student of this social and domestic prob- 
lem were to ofier a reward for a truthful statement from 
a veteran farm-house boarder that he ever concluded an 
engagement for the season without being assured with 
that engaging candor without which Mrs. BiUickin were 
not herself — "Of course, I don't expect to make anything 
by taking boarders. All I hope for is barely to meet ex- 
penses" — I doubt if the prize would be claimed soon, if 
ever. There would seem to be no propriety in my wast- 
ing time and paper in declaring this to be an absurdity. 
Even the rural BiUickin is not so unsophisticated as to 
invite toil and annoyances all summer long through sheer 
benevolence, nor so consumed by generous compassion 
for the denizens of the man-made city as to invite them 
by paid advertisements and private letters to descend 
wolf-wise upon her peaceful fold, there to raven until 
frosty nights compel their departure. And after all this 
to be quite satisfied if she has "just covered expenses ! " 

Let us be reasonable. Tou — my dear hard-working, 
honest, and kindly farm-house matron — have an undoubted 
right to eke out your income or solace your solitude by 
taking summer "guests." It is a legitimate business 
transaction on both sides, the character of which is not 
affected by the low terms upon which you plume yourself 
in the negotiations with Mr. Urbanus. Tou ask as much 
as you think he will pay, and, all things considered, as 
much as the accommodations are worth, or you are unfit 



^0 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

to manage this or any other moneyed transaction. Nor' 
are you prone to the conviction stated by your English 
namesake, that — " Though not Professed but Plain, still 
your wages" (or board-money) "should be a sufficient ob- 
ject to you to stimilate to, soar above mqre roast and 
b'iled." That you, with your narrow experience of poHte 
society and its usages, should be content with your cook- 
ery, does not imply, necessarily, the satisfaction of your 
guests, however modest their requirements. Soda-biscuits 
and pork are seldom the diet of people of the class who' 
engage your rooms by the season. The very children 
wovdd not eat it were it not for the keen hunger created 
by the out-door living, to gain the advantages of which 
the parents are wiUing to forego the ease and refinement 
of home. 

The beginning of a much-needed reformation is in a 
right comprehension on the part of the rural hostess of 
the tastes and habits of her boarders. The effort to break 
them in, during their brief sojourn with her, to country 
living and country thinking as regards pork, codfish, and 
saleratus-bread, will result ia mutual disgust. Nor, on 
the other hand, is it to be expected that course-dinners 
and elegant lunches, expensive entrees and accompHshed 
waiters will be imported for the summer months by farm- 
ers and their hard-working wives. The wise medium is 
so judicious and simple that our wonder grows at thought 
of the small number who adopt it. 

Oive to your city boarders country dainties. This is 
what they come to you for, not for salted meats and sail 
soda. The oleagioous chunk of pickled pork is the more 
difficult to swallow and to digest when through the open 
windows they hear the cheerful clamor of the fowls you 
are fattening for the Thanksgiving market. They would 
complain less of the tough rump steaks, the mottled, 



COUNTRY BOARDING. 7 1 

clammy biscuits, the insipid coffee and bitter tea, if you 
would give them plenty of milk and cream. "When the 
pastures and woods are fuU of fresh, fragrant berries, do 
not insult human stomachs by dried-apple pies, rhubarb 
stewed in molasses, or that abomination of desolation, 
"huckleberry-slump." Cultivate other vegetables as well 
as cabbage and potatoes. Patten the girls and boys on 
green com and peas ; delight their elders with egg-plant ; 
sweeten the blood and strengthen the brains of all with 
abundance of tomatoes and young onions. Learn how to 
cook eggs in a tempting variety of styles, and let there be 
no stint of these while it costs you no more to rear one 
hundred than fifty fowls. 

Finally — study how to prepare in the best manner the 
materials at your command. The wealthiest and most 
fastidious of your lady-boarders cannot, when at home, 
purchase vegetables that bring to table with them the 
sweetness of morning dews and juices dravm that day 
from the generous earth, nor such cream and eggs as you 
can put before her. Nor yet such plump and clean fowls 
as you might — but seldom do — carve in her sight. Abjm-e 
pastry unless it is imperatively demanded. Pies are the 
rock on which the Yankee BiUickin is apt to wreck her 
boarders' patience and digestion — and her own repu- 
tation as a cook. Plunge freely into the realm of 
blanc manges, custards, "whips," and the innumerable 
puddings of which eggs and milk are the wholesome 
base. 

Many of the "Cottage Kitchen" receipts have been pre- 
pared with especial reference to this class of busy and 
tried housekeepers. For them the summer vacation is 
crowded with labors many and cruel, and those for whom 
they cater are too apt to regard the race as the natural 
enemies of their — i.e., the city — kind. Do not be afraid 



72 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

of progressive cookery in the form of directions that would 
have seemed odd to your grandmother. 

While paying due regard, to reasonable suggestions, 
however uncivil their wording, cultivate a spirit of modest 
independence toward supercilious cockneys. Well-bred 
people are superior to the affectation of fine-lady and 
lordly airs in their intercourse with those who live and 
dress more plainly than themselves. The less your board- 
ers discourse of the luxurious appointments of their 
homes, the more likely it is that these are faultless, and 
the owners accustomed to the use of wealth. You are 
every whit as respectable as they so long as you fill your 
appointed station with modest dignity. You may not be 
able to vie with the Purseprouds in the non-essentials of 
clothes and furniture, may be totally ignorant of olives, 
path, champagne, and truffles, yet be entirely competent 
to give them lessons in good manners based on the golden 
rule of equity and courteous forbearance. 

Be consistent ia the conduct of your suddeply-enlayge^ 
household — swoUen into an "establishment." She whoi 
does not pretend to skiU'or knowledge she does not pos- 
sess, can never in any circumstances be ridiculous. Stay 
your dismayed soul on this axiom when likely to be bom© 
down by the disdainful looks or coarse criticism of those 
who are to be pitied for knowuig no better than to betray 
the base metal under the plating of gentility. 

Let your homespun be honest. Patches of cheap silk 
and cotton velvet make a pitiable contrast that provokes 
— and deserves — contempt. 

One direct and practical hiat : Buy — and use — a grid- 
iron. 



CHICKEN. 73 



CHICKEN. 



Boiled Chicken and Rice. 

Glean, wash, and stuff a full-grown fowl as for roasting, 
and sew it up snugly in a piece of clean, wMte mosquito- 
netting. Have ready a pot of scalding — not quite boiling 
— water, put in the fowl and bring to a steady, but not 
violent boiL Allow in cooking twelve minutes to the boiL 
Half an hour before it is done, take out a cup of the liquor, 
skim, and strain it into a tin paU, and season well. Have 
ready a cup of rice which has been soaked two hours and 
boiled ten minutes, then drained. Put il into the broth in 
the pail, set in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer 
slowly imtil the rice is soft, shaking from time to time but 
never stirring. It should soak up all the broth. When 
done, stir in viith a fork a teaspoonful of butter and the 
same of minced parsley. Beat one egg light and stir in 
in the same way, cook one minute and take from the fire. 

When the chicken is done, undo the netting, make a 
flattened mound of the rice, and lay the fowl on top. 
Serve hot. Send around a boat of drawn butter with it, 
using for it another cupful of liquor, strained, a teaspoon- 
ful of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and if 
you can spare it, a beaten egg. BoU two minutes. 

An old fowl can be made tender by putting it on in cold 
water, and cooking very slowly fifteen minutes to the 
pound. Of course you wUl set aside the broth for next 
day's soup. 

Chiclten Stewed Whole. 

Prepare as for roasting, but without stuffing. Do, this 
soon after breakfast, and set away in a cold corner. Cut 

4 



74 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

giblets, neck and feet to pieces, cover with a pint of cold 
water, add a little chopped onion, and stew gently two 
hours, closely covered, then boU fast half an hour with the 
lid of the saucepan off. This should give you a large cup 
of broth after the giblets and bones are strained out of it. 

Have in the bottom of a broad pot, four tablespoonfuls 
of minced fat pork, lay the chicken on this, pour the cooled 
gravy over it, cover tightly, and set where it wiQ heat to a 
gentle simmer in about an hour. Open the pot, turn the 
chicken, fit on the top, boil slowly half an hour longer, and 
turn again. Cover tightly, and it should be done at the 
end of another half-hour's gentle stewing. Transfer to a 
hot flat dish ; strain the gravy, season well, add parsley, 
thicken with browned flour, boil up, and pour over the 
chicken. 

A delicious dish. 

Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 

Clean, wash, and cut the chicken into joints, making 
two pieces each of breast and back. Large pieces are un- 
sightly in a stew of any kind. Chop a quarter-pound of 
fat salt pork and half of a small onion, put the chicken 
with these into a pot with a pint of cold water, and stew 
slowly until the meat is tender. Take out the chicken, put 
into a colander, and keep hot over a pot of boiling water, 
throvraig a thick cloth over the cokmder. Strain the gravy 
back into the pot, season with parsley, pepper, and, if 
needed, salt. Thicken with a great tablespoonful of 
browned flour, boil up once, return the chicken to the 
gravy, simmer ten minutes and dish. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Split down the back as for broiling, when you have 
cleaned and washed the chicken. Lay it, breast upward, 



CHICKEN. 75 

in a dripping-pan ; pour a ciipful of boiling water over it, 
cover with another pan that fits it exactly, turned upside- 
down ; set in a good oven, and cook half an hour without 
looking at it. Then baste abundantly with the hot water. 
In half an hour more rub a tablespoonful of butter over 
the fowl, re-cover, and in ten minutes more baste again, 
very profusely, and pepper and salt the chicken. Cook ia 
this manner, basting every ten minutes and keeping cov- 
ered between-times, until a fork enters the breast easily. 
The color should be a soft, yeUow-brown aU over. Lay 
the chicken on a dish, cover and keep hot while you add a 
little boiling water to the gravy, with chopped parsley and 
browned flour, and stir to a boil on the top of the stove. 
Boil up well, pour a little on the chicken, the rest into a 
boat. 

A Virginia receipt and a nonpareil 

Old-fashioned Chicken Pot.pie. 

Cut the chicken as for, a fricassee. Chop a quarter- 
pound of fat salt pork, and with it cover the bottom of a 
wide-mouthed, rather shallow pot. Next lay in the pieces 
of chicken ; sprinkle with minced onion, and just cover 
with cold water. Over this lay a thick biscuit crust, 
pretty short Stew one hour and a half, then brown by 
holding a red-hot shovel close to the crust, or if you have 
a stove-cover that fits the pot, heat this very hot and fit it 
on, leaving it five minutes or so, the pot being drawn to 
the side of the stove, where it wiU be hot without boiling. 

Now, lift the crust out with a fork and cake-tiuner, and 
cover to keep warm. Take out the chicken and set over 
boiUng water. Add a little boiling water to the gravy, 
thicken with a tablespoonful of browned flour, season with 
pepper, salt, and parsley, and boil one minute. Then, put 
in squares or strips of pie-crust, cook gently ten minutes ; 



76 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

arrange" tlie chicken on a flat disli, lay the dumplings on it, 
pour the gravy over them, and cover with the crust. 



Chicken Scallop. 

This is an excellent way of disposing satisfactorily of an 
old, very tough f owL 

The day before it is to be eaten, cut up as for fricassee, 
put into a pot with a gallon of cold water, and set where 
it win heat slowly to a boil in perhaps an hour. Just sim- 
mer for four hours — and if not tender then, for six. 
Never boil fast ia aU this time. A minute's rapid bubble 
wiQ toughen tendons and flesh irretrievably. Let it 'get 
cold in the broth, and save the latter for soup. 

Next day, cut the chicken from the bones, tossing back 
these into the broth. With a sharp knife cut the meat 
into inch-lengths about half an iach wide. Take out a 
cupful of broth, strain, and put into a saucepan over the 
fire. "When hot, season well with pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley ; stir in a tablespoonful of butter, rolled ia one 
of flour. BoU up weU and pour upon a beaten egg in a 
bowL Mix the chicken into this, cover the bottom of a 
pudding-dish with fine crumbs, put in gravy and meat, 
cover from sight under a thick layer of. crumbs ; divide a 
tablespoonful of butter into bits and drop on the top ; 
bake, covered, half an hour, then brown nicely. Serve in 
the pudding-disL 

Chicken and Egg Scallop. 

Make as above ; cover and bake until the gravy bubbles 
up at the sides. Then take off the plate or pan that cov- 
ers it, draw to the oven-door and break four or five eggs 
upon the seething surface, enough to cover it well. Pep- 



CHICKEN. TJ 

per and salt these, shut up the oven, and bake until the 
eggs are set. 

In the country, where eggs are abundant and tough hens 
might to be unmarketable, this is a cheap dish, and would 
be a favorite even with summer boarders. 

A Virginia Stew of CPiiclien. 

1 large fowl. 

1 pint of tomatoes, fresh or canned. 

3 potatoes, large ones, parboiled and sliced. 

4 ears of green corn cut from the cob. 
\ lb. fat salt pork, chopped. 

1 cup shelled Lima beans. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in as much flour. 

\ teaspoonful black pepper and half as much cay- 
enne. 
1 tablespoonful — even — of salt. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 small onion, minced. 
1 large tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

3 quarts of cold water. 

Joint the chicken, put on in the water with the onion, 
and stew gently until tender. Add, then, the pork and 
aU the vegetables except the tomatoes ; cover closely and 
stew one hour, still slowly, stirring up from the bottom 
now and then. Now, put in the tomatoes and sugar with 
the seasoning, stew forty minutes, and add the butter cut 
up in the floirr. BoO. one minute, and turn out into a deep 
dish or a tureen. Eat from soup-plates as you would 
chowder. Before taking it up, taste to make sure it is 
seasoned right. 

This was a famous dish at the " barbecues " of Old Vir- 
ginia. In the season squirrels were substituted for chick- 
ens. 



78 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



EGGS. 



Boiled. 

Lay clean, fresh eggs two minutes in warm — ^not hot — 
■water ; transfer them to a saucepan of boiling water ; take 
it directly from the fire, fit on a close top, and let it stand 
for six minutes. By this time the eggs should be like a 
soft custard throughout. Send to table wrapped in a 
warmed napkin. 

Eggs cooked thus are far more digestible, and to most 
people more palatable than when the white is boUed into 
soHd albumen that resists the action of the gastric juices. 

Bake'd Eggs. 

Put two tablespoonf uls of nice gravy in a pie-plate ; set 
in the oven until the gravy begins to hiss, break into it 
enough eggs to cover the bottom of the dish, pepper and 
salt, and bake until the whites are set. Serve in the pie- 
plate. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Lay a layer of bread-crumbs, soaked to a soft paste in 
milk, then peppered and salted, into a pie-dish, set in the 
oven irntn hot through. Beat up five eggs to a stiff froth, 
add a tablespoonful of melted butter and the same of 
cream, salt and pepper, and pour over the bed of cnunbs. 
Bake five miautes in a quick oven. 

Or, 

Instead of the crumbs, you can put a bed of minced 
ham or veal or chicken in the dish, moistened with gravy 
or soup. 



EGGS. 79 

Eggs on Toast. 

6 eggs. 

1 cupful drawn butter — drawn in milk. 

Slices of stale bread, toasted and buttered. 

Chopped parsley. 

Pepper and salt 

Heat a cupful of milk to scalding ; mix in a large tea- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of flour wet with cold 
water and rubbed smooth, and stir until it is as thick as 
custard. Add chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 
AU this should be done in a tin vessel set in boiling water, 
and over the fire. 

Have ready the toast (not forgetting to pare the crust 
from each slice before it is toasted), buttered, and laid in 
close rows on a hot dish. Poior a tablespoonful of hot 
water on each piece. Beat the eggs very light, and stir 
fast into the drawn butter untU they are a rich yeUow 
sauce, almost stiff enough to stand alone. Heap upon the 
toast and send hot to table. 

Stewed Eggs. 

Boil five or six eggs ten minutes, and throw them into 
cold water untU they are perfectly cold. Then peel and 
cut crosswise in slices with a sharp knife. Have on the 
fire in a frying-pan a cupful of soup-stock or gravy, in 
which half an onion has been stewed five minutes, then 
taken out. The gravy should have been strained, and 
seasoned with pepper and salt When it comes to a boil, 
heat in a tin plate a tablespoonful of butter, roU each slice 
of egg in it, coat it with flour and lay gently in the frying- 
pan. Set the pan at one side of the stove to do this, then 
remove to a warmer spot, but do not allow the gravy to 



8o COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

boil again — merely to simmer around the edges. Leave 
the eggs thus five minutes. 

Line a flat dish with very crisply-toasted bread, dipped 
in salted boiling water and buttered. Lay the sUced eggs 
on this, and pour on the gravy. 

A savory breakfast-dish. Chopped parsley improves it. 

Breaded Eggs. 

Boil and slice the eggs as directed in the last receipt. 
Beat up one raw egg light in a bowl, and have a handful 
of fine crumbs ready, peppered and salted, 'in a plate. 
Dip the egg-slices first in the egg, then in the crumbs, 
coating them well. Heat some nice dripping in a pan, and 
fry them to a yellow brown. Take up the instant each is 
done, and lay in a hot colander. 

Heat a cup of gravy or soup in a saucepan, well-sea- 
soned and thickened with browned flour. Transfer the 
eggs to a hot platter, and pour the hot gravy over them. 

Egg-cups. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 cupful of minced cold meat — ^ham, veal, or poultry 
— well seasoned. 

1 cupful of drawn butter, or strained gravy. 

A little chopped parsley. 
Cut the eggs smoothly arovmd, dividing each intd two 
cups, extracting the yolk. Cut a small piece from the 
bottom of each cup, so that it will stand upright. Mash 
the yolks to powder with a potato-beetle or bowl of a spocm, 
mix vdth them the chopped meat, and mould into pellets 
about the size and shape of the displaced yolk. Put one 
of these in each " cup," arrange them in a dish, and pour 
over them the gravy or drawn butter, made very hot and 



EGGS. 8l 

seasoned with the chopped parsley. Set in the oven for 
five minutes to heat the eggs, and serve. 

This is a pretty dish, and may be made prettier by 
sticking a tiny spray of parsley in the top of each of the 
yellow pellets. Should you wish to add further to it, cut 
stale bread into rounds with a cake-cutter ; scoop out a 
hoUow in each to fit the bottom of the egg ; toast and but- 
ter them, and put one under each egg-cup before you pour 
the gravy over alL You then have cups and saucers. In 
this case there should, of course, be more of the hquid, as 
the toast would absorb much of it. 

Eggs in the Nest. 

Prepare the yolks as above directed, but shred the 
whites into thjn strips ; put a tablespoonful of butter on a 
hot tin plate and lay these in it, turning now and then, 
and keeping warm over boUing water, until the yolks are 
ready. Heap the yolks on a hot dish, arrange the whites 
around them hke hay or straw, pour over all a cupful of 
drawn butter in which some chopped parsley has been 
stirred, set in an open oven three minutes, and send to 
table. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Boil eggs very hard, throw into cold water, and when 
perfectly cold remove the shells and cut in two in the 
middle. Take out the yolks and rub smooth with a little 
melted butter or cream. Salt, cayenne pepper, and dry 
mustard to taste. Fill each hollowed white vrith this mix- 
ture, place the halves neatly together, and wrap in tissue- 
paper. 

Some prefer two. or three drops of onion juice added to 
the seasoning. 

A very nice entree for picnic parties. The ends of the 



82 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

tissue-paper should be cut into fringe and twisted lightly 
about the eggs. Arranged on a bed of lettuce in an open 
round basket or dish, they are a pretty addition to the 
meal spread under the greenwood tree, or the lunch-table 
at home. Tou can make a salad of them by serving a 
lettuce-leaf and egg, stripped of the paper-covering, upon 
each plate, and pouring over them mayonnaise dressing. 

Dropped Eggs. 

Pour two cupfuls of boihng water into a clean frying- 
pan, stir in a teaspoonful of salt, and when it dissolves, 
break your eggs, one at a time, into a cup, slipping each 
upon the water, carefully, holding the Up of the cup close 
to the surface to keep the egg from scattering. Do not 
put more than three into the pan at a time. As the white 
forms and a film gathers over the yolk, slip a perforated 
skimmer or split spoon under the egg and lay it on a slice 
of toast which has been dipped in boiling salted water, 
then laid on a hot dish. There should be as many roimds 
of toast (always crustless) as there are eggs. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter with a saltspoonful of 
salt in a frying-pan, but do not let it brown. Have ready 
six or eight eggs, broken into a bowl, and as the butter 
warms pour them into the pan. Stir them from this min- 
ute until they are a soft mass. As soon as they can be 
heaped together, they are done, and should be dished. 
Scrape from the bottom with every stir, and toss the mass 
upward as you work it. Most people cook scrambled eggs 
too long.. When they cease to run on-the pan, turn them 
out upon a hot dish, heap neatly but not smoothlj, pepper, 
and serve. 



EGGS. 83 

Scrambled Eggs with Shad Roes. 

" When you have shad for dinner, scald the roes ten min- 
utes in boiling water (salted), drain, throw into cold water, 
leave them there three minutes, wipe dry, and set in a cold 
place until next day, or whenever you wish to use them. 
Cut them across into pieces an inch or more wide, roU them 
in flour and fry to a fine brown. Scramble a dish of eggs, 
pile the roes in the centre of a heated platter, and dispose 
the eggs in a sort of hedge aU. around them. 
A very nice breakfast or lunch-dish. 

A Plain Omelette. 

7 eggs. 

i cup of milk. 

Salt and pepper. 

Butter or clean fresh dripping for frying. 
Beat yolks and eggs together for two minutes. Put in 
mUk and seasoning, and give a few strokes more. Have 
ready in a frying-pan two great . spoonfuls of butter or 
dripping. The fat from the top of the liquor in which 
corned ham has been boiled is the next best thing to good 
butter, and much better than bad. When this is hissing 
hot, pour in the beaten eggs. Keep the omelette cleai- of 
the pan while it is cooking, by working a broad-bladed 
knife carefully under it now and then. In eight minutes 
it should be " set." With a cake-turner double it down 
upon itself ; invert a hot flat dish over the pan, and turn it 
out. Serve before it falls. This will make a breakfast for 
five people. 

Baked Omelette. 

Prepare as above-directed ; but instead of frying the 
beat«n eggs turn them into a pudding-dish, well-buttered, 
and bake ten minutes in a quick oven, or imtil the centre 



84 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

is set and the whole a puflfy mass, delicately touched with 
tan-color. 

Dyspeptics who dare not eat fried omelettes can partake 
of baked without injury. 

Tomato Omelette. 

"When the omelette is ready to be takeii from the pan, 
have at hand a cup of tomato, stewed with half a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of 
butter cut up iu fine crumbs, then rubbed through a col- 
ander and left in the saucepan while the omelette is in 
cooking. It should be a smooth puroe. Dish the ome- 
lette, lift the upper flap, put in the tomato, and fold down 
upon it again. Serve hot 

Ham Omelette. 

Make in the usual way, and when dished, put a layer 
of chopped ham between the folded halves. 

Chicken or veal, well seasoned, may be substituted for 
the ham, also cheese, grated, salted, and lightly sprinkled 
with cayenne pepper. 

Omelett^aux fines herbes 

Is made by mincing green parsley and thyme very fine, 
and sprinkling over the whole surface of the omelette just 
after it is put into the pan, and before it sets. 



SALADS. 



Cabbage Salad. 

1 small head of white cabbage, shred fine with a keen 
knife. Chopping bruises salads of the green 
kinds. 



SALADS. 8S 

i cup of vinegar and the same of boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 beaten egg. 

1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Scald the milk in one saucepan, the vinegar ia another. 
Put into the latter, when hot, the butter, sugar, pepper, 
and salt, boU up once, and stir in the shred cabbage. 
Cover closely, and draw to the side of the stove where it wUl 
scald but not boU. Pour the hot nulk on the beaten egg, 
return to the fire, and stir until it begins to thicken. 
Turn the cabbage into a bowl, pour the hot mUk-and-egg 
upon it, and mix thoroughly with a sUver fork. Cover 
the bowl while the contents are hot, and set away where 
it will cool suddenly. Eat cold. It will be found ver^^ 
delightful 

Lettuce Salad. 

Dress your salads on the table, and eat at once, when 
lettuce, celery, cresses, and other succulent and green 
things are the material Wash the lettuce and pick apart 
before it is sent in, leaving out stalks and coarser leaves. 
Set on the table in a broad plate, lined with a napkin to 
absorb the ice-cold water from which it has just been 
drawn dripping. Take, leaf by leaf, gingerly, with the 
tips of your fingers, tear apart and pile in your salad-bowl. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, *and white sugar, turning the 
lettuce over and over with a fork as you season. Then, 
measure and pour over it two tablespoonfuls of salad oil 
to four of vinegar, adding the vinegar last. Toss lightly 
but thoroughly until each bit has its coating of dressing, 
and pass to the rest, that each person may help himself. 
The fork only should be used in eating salad. It toughens 
and wilts lettuce to lie long in dressing. 



86 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Water-Cress Salad. 

Wash the cresses well in cold water and shake off the 
wet. Cut the sprigs apart with a sharp knife, not to bruise 
them too much. Heap in a bowl or deep dish, and season 
in the following proportions : 1 teaspoonful white sugar, 
and the same scant of salt and of pepper. 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of salad oil and twice as much vinegar. Put the vine- 
gar in last of all, and toss up welL Eat soon after dress- 
ing the salad. 

Potato Salad. 

2 cups of mashed potato, rubbed through a colan- 
der. 

§ cup of firm white cabbage, chopped fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cucumber or gherkin pickle, also 
chopped. 

Tolk of a hard boiled egg, pounded to powder. 

Mis all well together. 
Dressing : 1 raw egg, beaten Hght. 

1 saltspoonful of celery-see3. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful of flour. 

J cupful of vinegar. * 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Heat the vinegar to boiling, and stir into it the beaten 
egg, sugar, butter, and seasoning. Wet the flour with 
cold vLaegar and add to these. Cook the mixture, stk- 
ring constantly, until it thickens, when pour scalding hot 
upon the salad. Toss up with a silver fork, and let it get 
perfectly cold before eating. 



SALADS. 87 

Tomato Salad. 

Pare and slice the tomatoes, and put into a salad-bowl. 
Make a dressing of one saltspoonful each of salt, pepper, 
sugar, and made mustard, worked to a paste, with two 
tablespoonfuls of oil ; then beat into it gradually four 
tablespooufuls of vinegar. Add the beaten yolks of one 
raw egg, and pour over the tomatoea Set on ice until 
•wanted. 

Beet Salad. 

Boil half a dozen sweet beets until tender ; scrape off 
the skins, and slice roxmd. WhUe stiU warm, pour over 
them a dressing made of one tablespoonful of oU, two 
of vinegar, a teaspoonf ul of sugar, half a teaspoonful each 
of mustard, pepper, and salt. "Work the oU. well into these, 
beat light, and add the vinegar gradually. Cover the beets, 
and set away where the salad wUl get cold quickly. You 
can keep it two or three days. 

Celery Salad. 

Pick out the crisp stalks, wash and scrape, lay in very 
cold water until you are ready to send it to the table, 
then cut into short pieces, arrange in a bowl, and pour 
over it a seasoning made in the same proportions as that 
for beet-salad. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 
The yolks of 6 eggs, carefully freed from the whites. 
4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. 
2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

1 saltspoonful of salt, and half as much cayenne pep- 
per. 
Put the eggs, vinegar, and oil on ice for several hours 
before you begin to make the dressing. "When quite 
ready, break the yolks into a cold bowl, set amid cracked 



88 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

ice, or in ice water. Keep the vinegar and oil in another 
vessel of ice, close at hand. Be careful that your egg- 
beater is cold, clean, and dry. " The Dover " is incom- 
parable for this purpose. Begin to beat the yolks with 
even, not hurried, strokes, husbanding your strength for 
a possibly long siege. As soon as they are fairly broken 
up, let fall upon them one drop of oil. Beat one minute, 
and add another, and do this at Hke intervals for ten 
minutes. Then, put in three drops every minute, keeping 
the egg-beater going all the time. By this the mayon- 
naise should be as thick and smooth as cake-batter. Add 
a teaspoonful of vinegar when it reaches this point, beat 
two minutes, and drop in the oil every few seconds until 
it is aU used up, still whipping the mixture steadily, 
"vrithout haste, vnthout rest." Alternate the last forty 
or fifty drops with tiny " spiUs " of vinegai;, whip all 
smooth, put in salt and pepper, beat vigorously to mix 
these in, and set on ice until wanted. As you wiU see, 
the preparation of a dressing so famous and elegant is 
neither expensive nor difficult. Keep aU the ingredients 
at the lowest temperature compatible with liquefaction, 
have fresh eggs and oil, beat steadily, and do not hurry 
the dropping of oU and vinegar, and failure is an impossi- 
bility. 

This dressing is suitable for every kind of salad, and I 
know of no other that is. 

Salmon Salad. 

1 can of salmon, drained, and broken into rather large 

flakes with a sUver fork. 

2 heads of nice lettuce, picked apart, washed care- 

fully, and laid in ice-cold water until the s^lad is 
served. 
1 cup of mayonnaise dressing. (See receipt.) 



FISH. 89 

Put the salmon into a glass bowl, and salt slightly. 

Serve the lettuce in another dish, the dressing in a 
gravy-boat or small pitcher. Put on a plate, in helping 
each person, a leaf of crisp " heart " lettuce ; on this, as 
in a cup, a great spoonful of salmon, and pour a spoonful 
of dressing on it. 

Lobster, Crab, and Halibut Salad 

Are made in the same way. 

Tomato and Lettuce Salad. 

Peel ripe tomatoes with a sharp knife, cut each cross- 
wise through the middle, and lay vsdthin a curUng leaf of 
crisp, cool lettuce, on a small, deep plate. Pour mayon- 
naise dressing on the tomato. 

A simple and elegant salad for summer weather. 



FISH. 



Boiled Codfish (fresh). 

Leave the fish in cold, salted water half an hour. Taie 
it out, wipe dry, and sew it up in white, strong mosquito- 
netting, keeping the shape of the piece of fish. Plunge 
deep in boiling water, salted, and cook in this twenty 
minutes to each pound. 

Clip the stitches, remove the cloth, and pour half a cup- 
ful of drawn butter over it while very hot. Send to table 
with the rest of the drawn butter in a boat. 

Make this sauce in the usual way, with the addition of 
chopped parsley, and a hard-boiled egg, chopped very fine. 



90 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

How to Use up Cold Fresh Cod, Halibut, etc. 

Pick the cold fish carefully from the bones, and to every 
CTipful allow half as much well-mashed potato. Have 
ready in a sauce- or fryiag-pan a cupful of boiling water, 
salted and peppered, with a large spoonful of butter, and 
(if you have it) the remains of the drawn butter that did 
duty as sauce to the fish when hot. When the butter is 
melted, stir in the codfish and potato, mixed well together. 
Stir and toss with a fork until the whole is a smoking-hot 
mass. If stiff, add more boiling water. It should be just 
consistent enough to heap on a hot dish, not so soft as to 
run. 

Boiled Codfish (salt). 

Divide a piece of the thict part of a salt cod into strips 
an inch wide, cutting crosswise, (A pound vriU make a 
good meal for two people.) Soak all night in lukewarm 
water. In the morning soak two hours in cold water. 
Then wash and scrape all the salt from the skin and flakes, 
and set it over the fire in warm water in which you can 
easily bear your hand. Heat almost to a boU, and keep it 
at that gentle simmer two hours. Half an hour before it 
is needed, drain off the water, lay the fish on a dish, pick 
out skin and bones, breaking the fish as Uttle as possible. 
Have ready in a frying-pan a cupful of scalding water — or 
enough to cover the fish well. Lay it in, and again sim- 
mer — never boU — ^whUe you prepare the sauce. 

Draw a tablespoonful of butter in a. cup of mUk (with a 
bit of soda the size of a pea dropped ta), thicken with a 
teaspoonful of flour, pepper well, and when it boils stir 
in well a beaten egg with a little chopped parsley. Again 
drain the fish, arrange in the centre of a hot dish, and 
pour half the sauce upon it, the rest into a gravy-dish. 



FISH. 91 

Cover, and set over boiling water three minutes, and send 
hot to the table. 
There is no better method of cooking salt cod than this. 

Fried Fish. 

Clean carefully, washing out the inside of perch, smelt, 
or other pan-fish, and wiping perfectly dry. Have ready a 
little dry, salted flour, and coat each fish (or piece of fish) 
well with this. Heat lard, or clarified dripping very hot 
in a frying-pan, and lay in the fish carefully, not so many 
at once that you cannot turn them with ease. This you 
should do so soon as the underside is nicely browned, and 
when both are of a yellow-brown take the fish out of the 
grease. If small, transfer them to a hot colander, to rid 
them of every drop of fat. Send to table in a hot dish. 

When eggs are plenty you can make a really elegant 
dish of our small pan-fish by dipping them, after wiping, 
into beaten egg, then rolling in pounded cracker, or 
bread-crumbs, before frying. 

In any case, serve your fish dry — not crisp — neither 
soaked in grease, nor slowly converted into cindery chips. 

Creamed Mackerel. 

Wash a salt mackerel, and soak it all night in cold water. 
To prepare it for breakfast, wipe it well to get off the salt 
crystals that may be lodged in the creases, put into a 
broad pan of boiling- water, and cook steadily half an hour. 
Drain when done, and transfer to a hot dish. Pour over it 
a sauce made by stirring into a cupful of boiUng water a 
heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch, two teaspoonfuls of 
butter, one of vinegar, and a little pepper. Instead of the 
vinegar you can put in a teaspoonful of green pickle 
minced fine. Stir over the fire until smooth and as thick 
as custard, when add minced parsley, if convenient. Pour 



92 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

upon the fish ; coyer, and let it stand five minutes in a 
warm place before it goes to table. 

Scotch HerrlngSi 

Instead of eating them raw, put them in a tin plate, 
turn another over it to keep in the heat, and set in a good 
oven untn they are very hot. A few drops of lemon-juice 
or viaegar are an improvement in the estimation of some. 
Indeed, nearly aU salt relishes, especially fish, are more 
wholesome and pleasant when qualified by some agree- 
able acid. Pepper the herrings in the dish, and serve 
very hot. 

Clam Fritters. 

12 clams, chopped fine. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 eggs. 

J teaspoonful of soda. 

1 cup of flour. 

Liquor from clams. 

Pepper and salt. 
Sift soda and salt through and with the flour. Put 
clam-Hquor and milk together. Beat up the eggs, add 
milk, then flour, lastly, chopped clams and pepper. Fry 
as you would cakes on a griddle, rubbed well with a bit of 
salt pork, and eat hot. 

In making batter for these as for other fritters and 
cakes, you must exercise your own judgment in the mat- 
ter of flour. Some brands " thicken up " more than others. 
Prepared flour, for example, must be used more sparingly 
than barrel-flour. But it is excellent for muffins, cake, 
batter, and, indeed, all purposes where yeast and sour 
mUk are not used. If you substitute it for plain flour in 
this receipt, omit the soda. 



FISH. 93 

Salmon Strips. 

Soak haK a pound of salt, smoked salmon one hour in 
cold water, then boil gently twenty minutes. Drain, lay 
in very cold water for ten minutes, wipe dry, and with a 
sharp knife cut into strips about as long as your middle 
finger and half an inch wide. Have some butter or nice 
beef -dripping hot in a frying-pan ; roll each strip of fish 
in flour and fry to a fine brown. Serve hot and dry, 
piled like sticks ia a heated plate. 

Salmon Pudding. 

1 can salmon. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
■^ cup bread-crumbs. 
Pepper, salt, minced green pickle. 
Pick the fish to pieces, when you have drained off every 
drop of the liquor for sauce. Work in melted butter, 
seasoning, eggs, and crumbs. Put into a buttered bowl 
or tin cake-mould, cover tightly with a tin pail-lid or 
plate, and set in a dripping-pan of boiling water. Cook 
in a ho.t oven — filling up the water in the pan as it boils 
away with more from the tea-kettle — for one hour. Set 
in cold water one minute to loosen the pudding from the 
sides, and turn out upon a hot platter. 

Make the sauce by adding to a cupful of drawn butter 
the liquor from the can, a raw beaten egg, a teaspoonfal 
of chopped pickle, pepper, salt, and minced parsley. Boil 
up and pour over the pudding. 

Fricassee of Salmon. 
1 can preserved salmon. 
1 raw egg and 1 hard-boiled. 
1 cup of drawn butter. 
Pepper, salt, and minced parsley. 



94 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Drain the liquor from the salmon, and heat in a sauce- 
pan with half a cupful of boUing water. When it simmers 
put in the salmon, from which all the bones have been 
picked, breaking the fish as Uttle as possible. Salt and 
pepper, and bring slowly to a boU. Turn into a colander ; 
drain the Uquor off, and heap the fish on a very hot dish. 
Have ready and boiling the drawn butter, add the beaten 
raw egg, cook, stirring all the time, one minute ; put in 
the hard-boiled egg, minced very fine, and the chopped 
parsley. Boil up once, and pour over the salmon. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

1 can preserved salmon. 

1 raw egg, well-beaten. 

^ cup fine bread-crumbs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Salt, cayenne pepper, a pinch of nutmeg. 

Juice of half a lemon, or a teaspoonful of vinegar. 

Drain off the liquor and mince the fish. Melt and work 
in the butter, season to taste, and moisten with the liquor 
and vinegar before the crumbs go in. Beat up a raw egg, 
and mix well with the fish, etc. Flour your hands, and 
make the paste into rolls as }ong as your middle finger 
and more than an inch in diameter. RoU over and over 
on a well-floured dish to shape them, flatten the ends by 
standing them on the same, and when thickly crusted with 
flour, set aside in a cold place for an hour or more. They 
should be fitrm before they are cooked. Heat nice, cleared 
dripping or sweet lard hot in a frying-pan — enough to 
" swim " the croquettes. Put in a few at a time, turning 
over gradually as they brown. When done, put them in 
a hot colander to rid them of grease, then pUe neatly on a 
warm dish. 



FISH. 95 

N.B. — Strain lard or dripping left in the pan through 
thick cloth, and set away for frying fish, unless it is burnt 
black. 



Lunch or Supper.dish of Salt Cod. 

Boil a pound of soaked codfish as directed in receipt 
for " boiled codfish — salt." "When cold mince it ^ne. Heat 
a cup of drawn butter, stir in the fish, pepper to taste, 
mix in well two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; butter a 
baking-dish ; pour in the fish, strew fine dry crumbs on 
top, and set in the oven until delicately browned. 

Cold fresh cod, halibut, or other firm white fish is very 
good prepared in this manner. 



Baked Halibut. 

When halibut is cheap (as does happen sometimes) buy 
a cut weighing three pounds or so. Lay in strong salt 
and water one hour, to draw out the fishy taste. Wash 
with pure water, wipe dry, make through the tough skin 
on top incisions a quarter-inch apart, and lay in a dripping- 
pan. Dash a cup of boihng water, slightly salted, over it, 
invert another pan above it and cook one hour, basting 
three times vnth the salt water. Remove the upper pan, 
rub the top of the salmon well with a tablespoonful of 
butter, and brovni delicately. Baste again with the hot 
water and transfer the fish to a hot dish, keeping warm 
while you get the sauce ready. 

Strain the water from the dripping-pan into a saucepan, 
stir into it two tablespoonfuls of Uquor from canned toma^ 
toes, or some tomato-sauce strained, or a liberal spoon- 
ful of tomato-catsup, pepper to taste ; add lemon-juice 
or a little vinegar, thicken with an even tablespoon- 



96 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

ful of browned flotir, boil up and turn into a gravy- 
dish. 

The remains of this dish can be used for halibut-salad, 
or in some other of the various methods given for prepar- 
ing cold fisL Never throw away a bit of salt or fresh 
cooked fisL 



FAMILIAE TALK. 



TABLE MANNERS. 

"It is not a sin, per se, for a man to put his knife into 
his mouth," remarked I, to a friend. 

" No ? " half-interrogative and reluctant " But I wish 
it were ! Then Christians would not do it." 

In no other country upon earth is the cultivation of the 
minute courtesies of daily life — domestic and social — so 
nearly Kphristian duty as with us. The answer most fre- 
quently made to kindly strictures upon our notorious cai-e- 
lessness in this regard, is that we do not compare unfavor- 
ably, rank for rank, with foreigners, that our yeomanry 
and mechanics are far better behaved than those of Eng- 
land, Germany, and Russia. The reply to this is plain and 
pertinent. The German or Irishman who tears bones 
apart with his fingers, thrusts peas by the knifeful down 
his throat, and helps himself to butter with the same reek- 
ing blade, eats as did his grandfather — as his great-grand- 
son will — unless he should emigrate to America. Here 
there is no more a fixed rank for any family or individual 
than an EstabUshed Church. MUl-boys, rail -hewers, tan- 
ners, and canal-boatmen may in the course of time control 
senates and sit in the Presidential chair. 

I write it down, then, as good common sense — if not, as 
5 



■98 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

my friend would imply, Christianity — that the head of 
every household should insist upon and conscientiously 
maintain a certain degree of cleanliness,, order, and what, 
fot the want of an English word, we name " etiquette," in 
each department, of the home. And since, in the fulfilment 
, of this and other duties involving the adornment and gen- 
eral pleasantness of the dwelling, the mother is minister 
of the interior, my talk wiU be mainly with her. 

We will begin, if you please, with the morning meal in 
the farm-house kitchen. If, of the three hungering boys 
who troop in from the barn-yard and milking-pen at "far 
ther's" heels, Eben should one day go to Congress, Oliver 
become a potentate in the money market, and Ethan gov- 
ernor of a powerful Western State, it would be only what 
has happened over and again, until we have learned to 
look to the farmer's boy for brain as well as brawn. Sarah, 
who has cooked the breakfast and strained and skimmed 
the milk, may be an ambassador's wife in time ; and Han- 
nah, who has already " done up " the bedrooi^ set the 
New York fashions before she is forty-five. Excluding 
these startling possibilities, it is almost certain that each 
wUl, by the Lord's good and gracious appointment, govern 
a household of his or her own, and pass down to another 
generation the stamp received from the pressure of the 
mother's hand. Bearing this in mind when these hands 
hang down through continual housework, .making and 
mending, and the knees are feeble with much " stepping 
around," the refining no less' than the feeding one's off- 
spring wUl rise into the dignity of a solemn duty, a privi- 
lege to be accepted thankfully. 

Your table-cloth may be coarse. It must be clean. My 
John maintains gravely that there is something demoral- 
izing in a dirty table-cloth, degradation more serious than 
the damage sustained by appetite and stomach. Put 



TABLE MANNERS. 99 

under the linen cloth (don't use cotton !) a. sub-ccver of 
thick Canton-flannel, if you cannot afford the heavier 
"table-felt" sold for this purpose. Or an old blanket, 
darned, washed, and kept for this use only, mU do, if you 
can spare it. The upper cover mil lie more smoothly, 
look like a much better quality of napery, and keep clean 
a third longer than if spread upon the bare boards. Have 
mats of some kind — crochet- or basket-work — ^under the 
dishes, and a napkin at each place. Beside these, have 
knife and fork laid straight, and side by side, at the right 
hand, a clean tumber or goblet, and an " individual" but- 
ter-plate. The fashion of using these last is not only 
cleanly, but economical, since the bits of butter left can 
be collected after the meal and used for cooking without 
clinging associations of gravy, crumbs, or sweets. 

Do not let the boys wash in the eating-room, nor comb 
their hair with a family comb hung over the sink ; nor 
yet produce each his pocket-comb and make straight and 
sleek his locks in sight of the assembled family. It is 
almost as objectionable, make him understand, to clean or 
pare his nails at table, or in the parlor. If obtuse on this 
particular point, impress upon him, at the risk of seeming 
coarse, that the cuttings and scrapings of the human body 
are interesting only to the possessor thereof. The shock 
of the idea may prevent him from falUng into the habit of 
cleansing and trimming his finger-nails during divine ser- 
vice, after he becomes a city miUionnaire, in the persuasion 
that it is a seemly and not ungi-aeeful diversion for the 
time and place. 

When seated at table, let the helping be done in deco- 
rous turn as the parents shall decree. An overloaded plate 
is, in this day, considered unsightly. Nor should the few 
articles taken at the same time upon it be stirred together 
and compounded as a druggist makes up a prescription, 



lOO COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

the knife taJsing the place of the spatula. EBpecially, in- 
culcate the principle that the specific and only use of the 
knife is for cutting the food and dividing the joints. Put- 
ting the knife into the mouth is always, evei^where and 
essentially, a vulgarity. • 

Yes, Mrs. Homespun, I know " some very nice people 
do it." Dickens teUs us that the Cheeryble Brothers "ate 
vrith their knives." But their mother, we also learn, died 
early. And " nice " (otherwise) people would never have 
fallen into a habit so incorrigible that example, ridicule, 
and self-watchfulness often fail to cure it, had not 
" mother " tolerated the abomination as of " no conse- 
quence " when they were ravenous children. When the 
food is properly cut, let the knife be laid on one side or 
at the back of the plate, and the fork be taken in the right 
hand. Teach the children, next, to chew weU and slowly, 
with the Hps closed to avoid the sound of crunching and 
smacking. Fast eating has more to do with our national 
dyspepsia than have pies and fresh bread. Never allow 
the sopping or wiping up of gravy or molasses with bits of 
bread when the solid contents of the plates are consumed. 
If the young people use water as a table beverage, see 
that they acquire the habit of wiping their lips before 
drinking, thus leaving the glass unsoiled. 

Tea and coffee must be drunk noiselessly, not sucked, 
from the side of the cup, leaving the spoon in the saucer, 
and the cup be held by the handle. I have sat at table 
■with a ponderous DJD., LL.D.,^ and P.F.A., who made me 
tremble for the dainty china by grasping the cup with his 
whole hand, the thumb overlapping the brim, while he 
imbibed the contents as one might quaff a bumper, suc- 
ceeded by a loud " Ha ! " 

Dr. Samuel Johnson made inarticulate noises over his 



TABLE MANNERS. lOI 

lish, and plebeian in evei^ molecule and muscle — one 
whom not even early emigi-ation could have transformed 
into a gentleman. 

Demand that requests for food, acceptance and dechna- 
tijire of the same, be conveyed in set and courteous phrase ; 
that aU the members of the family seat themselves at the 
same time, and vrithout bustle. Exact from the chance 
laggard a sentence of apology, addressed to yourself. To 
you, also, as hostess, should be directed the "Please ex- 
cuse me," or " May I be excused ? " -without which no one, 
old or young, should be permitted to quit the table until 
aU have finished, put spoons in emptied cups, laid knife 
and fork in close parallels across the plate, the handles to 
the right, folded napkins, and left them on the same side 
between plate and cup or goblet. When all rise, the 
chairs should be Ufted, not pushed, back, and set quite 
out of the way of the turning figures. 

" When you leave the table, leave the room,'' is an ex- 
cellent rule in most households. If servants are to clear 
away dishes and plates, the presence of mere lookers- 
on wUl be unwelcome. If the mother and daughters 
perform the work, "Father" and the boys are apt to 
be in the way, loath as the kindly women are to hint 
this. 

I seem to hear the pettish or disdainful comment that 
wiU follow the reading of the above practical hints in some 
— ^perhaps many — home circles. The foimdation of much 
that offends people of good taste and breeding is in the 
dread of routine and fretting restrictions where one would 
be most comfortable : in his own home — the poorest man's 
liberty halL The truth is, that due and early attention to 
such simple rules as I have mentioned should be as general 
and as hghtly felt as are the customs of sleeping in beds 
instead of on the floor, and sitting down to tables rather 



102 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

thai* on the ground around the fire and eating from one 
big pot with unwashed fingers. 

It is well to have the " instincts of a gentleman," but 
I speak that which I do know in asserting that the ex- 
pression is oftener used in connection with apologies for 
boorish habits, than in commendation of the person thus 
endowed. Such "instincts" are the more graceful for 
pruning and direction. 

I have not written out all this for those who will wonder 
that I have thought it worth my while to take pains to say 
what everybody — that is, their everybody — knows already. 
Said a lady of this class to me the other day, illustrative 
of the platitudinal utterances of one who thought he was 
bestowing useful informatiofl : 

" Such tiresome triteness ! I should as soon have 
thought of enunciating portentously: 'I eat with my 
fork ! '" 

" But," I could not help retorting, " you see there are 
those who do not ! " 

I receive scores of letters that tell me, if my own obser- 
vation had not already convinced me of it, that there are 
many who would like to know how better-bred people be- 
have at table, and to conform their usages to a higher 
standard than that which prevails in their own homes. 
Some have come into sudden possession of riches, or into 
communication with neighbors and entertainers whose ways 
and means subject the plainer personages to distressing 
embarrassments. " I don't feel at ease ! " is the cry often 
uttered, a thousand times oftener smothered in very shame. 
I should lay aside my pen and fold my hands with a devout 
" nunc dimittis ! " could • I be enabled to convince my 
countrywomen that refinement in action and speech should 
not wait upon wealth ; that elegance and what we are apt 
to call lowly Hfe are not incompatible. If the mothers of 



VEGETABLES. I03 

our land would come up to the fuU measure of their duty 
in this regard, there is no reason why the plough-boy of to- 
day, who is to stand before princes in eighteen-himdred- 
and-ninety-something, shoTild not carry with him to that 
exalted station habits and language befitting it and his pa- 
trician associates ; deportment that has become second 
nature through the only means that will qualify one to 
carry a mantle of any fashion easily — accustomedness. 



VEGETABLES. 



Old Potatoes {boiled). 

Wash, but do not peel, put on in cold water, and cook 
until a fork passes easily through the heart of the largest. 
Peel quickly, laying each in a hot colander as it is skumed, 
sprinkle salt over them, then twist them, one at a time, in 
a soft, warm, dry cloth, untU they crack. Have ready a 
deep dish, made hot and lined with a napkin. Lay in the 
potatoes, cover with the napkin-comers, and serve. 

Old Potatoes [stewed). 

Pare very thin and lay in cold water for three hours. 
Put over the fire in cold, salted water, and cook until ten- 
der. Drain off the water, sprinkle with salt, and set the 
pot, uncovered, at the back of the stove untU the potatoes 
are perfectly dry. Have ready in a saucepan a cup of 
scalding mUk, stir into it a tablespoonful of butter, cut 
up in a teaspoonful of flour ; boil up, add salt, pepper, 
and parsley to taste. Turn out the potatoes on a wooden 
tray, press each with the back of a wooden spoon until it 
breaks through the middle, and drop it into the hot milk. 
When aU are in, simmer three minutes and serve. 



104 COTTAGE KITCHEN, 

Whipped 'Potatoes. 

Peel thin, cut in halves or quarters, lay in- cold water 
one hour — ^longer if the potatoes are old ; put over the fire 
ia boiling water, salted, and cook until tender. Draia off 
every drop of water, strew salt on the potatoes, and set 
them in the uncovered pot at the back of the range to dry. 
Turn out into a hot bowl,' and whip with a four-tiaed fork 
until hght and mealy. Beat in. then a tablespoonful of 
warmed butter, and for every dozen large potatoes, nearly 
a cup of hot (not boiled) milk, with salt to taste. The 
product should be as smooth as cream, but thicker. Heap 
in a deep dish. 

Browned Potato. 

Mash Irish potatoes very hght, or, what is better, whip 
them with two stout forks to a powdery heap ; beat in 
enough milk with a little butter to make them soft and 
creamy ; salt to taste, and mound upon a greased pie-plate. 
Set this in the oven untU nicely browned on top, and slip, 
by the help of your cake-turner, .to a hot dish. 

You can vary this dish by strewing the top of the 
mound with fine dry crumbs, then browning as directed. 
This is "potato au gratin." It is well for every woman to 
become famihar with the French names of the dishes 
known to us by common titles. They taste no better for 
the foreign garnish, but it is a convenience to be able to 
interpret the barbarous affectations of hotel menus. 

Scalloped Potatoes (No. 1). 

Mash or whip as above directed, beating in at the last a 
raw egg, whipped light. Butter a pudding or pie-dish ; 
spread a thick stratum of mashed potato in the bottom ; 
cover this with slices of cold hard-boiled egg, pepper and 



VEGETABLES. 105 

salt these, and put in another layer of potato. Cover all 
■with fine dry crumbs, strew a few bits of butter over 
them ; cover closely, and bake untU very hot throughout, 
then brown on the upper grating of the oven. 

Scalloped Potatoes (No. 2). 

Treat as you would whipped potatoes, but add pepper 
and a very little nutmeg. FiU some buttered patty-pans 
with this, cover vdth fine crumbs, salt and pepper, put a 
bit of butter on each, finally, strew finely-grated cheese 
over the top. Bake quickly to a light brovm, and serve in 
the patty-pans. 

The sooner you make experiments upon the appetite of 
your family with such unfamiliar and un-American dishes 
as the above the more rapidly and satisfactorily will your 
bin of fare be varied and improved. Come out of the 
deepening rut of commonplace cookery, and develop just 
and delicate tastes in those for whom you cater. There is 
no reason why you should live more meanly than the rich, 
although you may live more frugally. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Peel the potatoes and cut very thin. Lay in ice-cold 
water half an hour to make them crisp. Dry by spread- 
ing on a clean towel and covering with another, patting 
down the upper closely to absorb the moisture. Do not 
take from the water for drying until you are quite ready 
to fry them, as they become tough and limp as they get 
warm. Many fail utterly in cooking potatoes ia this way 
through neglect of the simple rule just mentioned. Have 
ready plenty of salted lard or dripping in a pan, made 
very hot. Fry the sliced potatoes, a few at a time, to a 
yeUow brown ; take out with a perforated skimmer and 
5* 



I06 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

throw into a hot colander. When aU are done, shate 
briskly to clear them of grease, and put into a dish lined 
■with a hot napkin. 

The potatoes ought to crackle crisply between the teeth, 
and be so dry as hardly to soil the napkin. 



Potato Puff. 

2 cupfuls of cold mashed potato. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 

1 cupful of milk. 

^ tablespoonful melted butter. 

Salt and pepper. 

Beat the butter into the potato until the latter is like 
whipped cream. Add seasoning, eggs, and mUk, and bake 
in a greased pudding-dish rather quickly to a fine brown. 
Serve in the bake-^ish, and soon — as it becomes heavy if 
left to stand long after leaving the oven. 

This is a very nice preparation of potato, and easily 
made. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Into two cups of cold, mashed potato beat a half-tea- 
epoonful of butter, a Httle salt, and a raw egg. Make into 
rolls about four inches long and an inch in diameter; 
coat these liberally with flour, and set by to get cold and 
stiff. Heat plenty of .clean dripping in a frying-pan, and 
fry the croquettes, a few at a time, rolling them over care- 
fully in the fat as they brown, to keep them in good color 
and form. Take up with equal care, leave in a hot colan- 
der for a moment to drain off the grease, and send to 
table in a heated platter. These croquettes are a nice 
garnish for roast beef. They should be laid neatly about 
the meat. 



VEGETABLES. 107 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Peel and cut the potatoes into dice. Lay in cold water 
half an hour ; then put over the fire in enough hot salted 
■water to cover them very well. Stew until tender ; turn 
off nearly aU the water, and add a cup of hot milk in 
which have been melted a teaspoonful of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of flour previously wet up with cold water. Cook 
five minutes, and stir in a teaspoonful of finely-minced 
parsley. In one minute more serve in a deep dish. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake large, fair potatoes, untU they yield "readily to the 
pressure of thumb and finger. Cut a "cap" from the end 
of each, and with a small teaspoon, or the handle of a 
spoon, scrape out the contents, taking care not to tear 
the skin. Add to the scraped potato, lyhen all the cases 
have been emptied, a dessert-spoonful of butter for 
each cupful of potato, a teaspoonful of milk, the same 
quantity of grated cheese, with salt and pepper to liking. 
Work aU into a creamy mixture, beating up with a fork or 
split spoon, and fill the skins with this. Fit each " cap '' 
in its place and set the potatoes back in the oven, cut 
ends uppermost, for eight or nine miautes, untU ttiey are 
hot again. Send to table in the skins, and eat from these. 
The result will well repay you for the little trouble re- 
quired to prepare the potatoes. 

Potatoes Stewed in Gravy. 

Peel and cut into inch-lengths. Lay in cold water for 
an hour — longer if they are old — and cook in slightly- 
salted boiling water until tender, but not to breaking. 
Drain, and add a cup of weak broth made by adding to 



I08 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

half a cup of gravy as much hot water, straining- and" 
seasoning well with pepper, salt, parsley, and a little 
finely-minced onion. Heat to boiling after the potatoes 
go in, stir in a teaspoonful of butter cut up in the same 
quantity of flour, simmer five minutes, and turn into a 
deep covered dish. 

How to Stew Cold Boiled Potatoes. 

Cut them into half-inch dice with a sharp knife. Have 
ready in a saucepan a cup of hot milk in which a bit of 
soda no larger than a pea has been dropped. Set this 
pan in an outer vessel of boiling water. Stir into the 
milk a tablespoonful of butter cut up in flour, pepper 
^ and salt to taste ; add the potatoes, fit on a close top, and 
simmer ten minutes. The potatoes should just come to 
the boiL If you can spare the white of an egg, beat it to 
a stiff froth and stir into the saucepan one minute before 
it is taken from the fire. 
Serve hot in a deep dish. 

Potato SoufflS. 

Thin a cupful of mashed (cold) potato with half a cupful 
of milk, and r»b through a fine colander. Beat three eggs 
ver-y light, yolks and whites together, and whip in the 
potato. Season with pepper and salt. Have ready some 
cleared dripping in a frying-pan — about two great spoon- 
fuls — and when hissing hot pour in the potato-mixture. 
Cook as you would an omelette, loosening from the bot- 
tom with a knife, and, when quite firm in the middle, in- 
vert a hot dish over the pan and turn it out. 

It should be eaten directly, as it gets very heavy if 
allowed to stand. The dish on which it is served must 
be very hot. 



ASPARAGUS. 109 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice, salt and pepper to 
taste. Heat a great spoonful of cleared dripping in a fry- 
ing-pan and fry slowly an onion cut up. Strain the onion 
out, return the fat to the pan and put in the potatoes. 
Stir from time to time, but without breaking them, imtil 
they are very hot all through. A minute before taking 
them up, stir in a tablespoonful of finely-cut -parsley. 
Drain in a hot colander, and serve in a deep dish. 

Some people prefer to leave the minced onion with the 
potatoes. You can try both ways. 



ASPARAGUS. 



Asparagus on Toast. 

Cut away the wood before cooking. These portions 
may give a pleasant flavor to your soup, but are unfit to be 
served as a vegetable. Have the stalks of uniform length ; 
tie up in small bunches with soft packthread, cover well 
with boiling water, salted, and cook half an hour, or until 
tender. They should not break. 

Pare the crust from half a dozen small shoes of stale 
bread, toast nicely, and as each piece comes from the fire 
dip quickly in the water in which the asparagus is boiling, 
and lay on a hot dish. Pepper, salt, "and butter while 
smoking hot ; drain the asparagus, take off the strings, and 
lay neatly on the toast, salting, peppering, and buttering to 
taste. 

Or, 

You can poiur a cupful of drawn butter, weU-seasoned, 
upon the asparagus after arranging it on the soaked toast. 



no COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Asparagus Pudding. 

1 cup of cold boiled asparagus — the green paxt only 
— chopped very fine. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of milk (a bit of soda the size of a pea stirred 

in). 
i cup fine crumbs. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Whip the eggs very light ; warm the butter and add 
next, then the crumbs, which should have been soaked in 
the nulk, the asparagus, pepper, and salt, and beat aU 
together very hard. Turn into a greased tin pail with a 
close cover, if you have no pudding-mould ; set ia a pot of 
boiling water, and cook one hour and a half. Dip the pail 
' in cold water to loosen the pudding, turn out and pour 
half a cupful of drawn butter over it. 

A good way of using up cold asparagus. The pudding 
is very delightful. 

Asparagus and Eggs. 

1 cup of cold boiled asparagus — the green part — 

chopped very fine. 
4 eggs, beaten light. 
■J cup of dravm butter. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 

Make the drawn butter by putting half a cupful of boil- 
ing water in a saucepan, and stirring iato it a tablespoon- 
ful of butter cut up and worked well into a heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour. Cook until smooth and thick, and beat 
in a bowl with the asparagus until you have a soft paste. 



BEANS. 1 1 1 

Season welL Put this into a buttered bate-dish, set ia a 
quick oven, covered. When the mixture is bubbling hot, 
remove the cover and pour on the surface the eggs, whipped 
light and stirred into the nulk, then peppered and salted. 
Set back in the oven — indeed, you should not take it out, 
only draw it to the door — and so soon as the eggs are 
set, send to table in the dish in which it was baked. Eat 
before it falls into dammiaess. 

Asparagus Biscuit. 

Scrape the crumb from the inside of stale biscuits, leav- 
ing a thin wall on aU sides, except the tops. These should 
be carefully cut off and set aside. Eub the inside of each 
biscuit with butter, also the under part of the crust-cover, 
and set them, open, the crusts beside them, in a moderate 
oven. Heat in a saucepan a cupful of boiled asparagus, 
chopped and prepared with drawn butter, as in the last re- 
ceipt Do this when the biscuits are crisp and hot, and 
so soon as the asparagus-mixture is heated throughout, . 
smoking as you stir it, fill the prepared cavities with it, 
fit on the tops, and send hot to the table. 



BEANS. 



Stewed Beans {dried). 

Soak a quart of beans overnight in lukewarm water. 
Next morning, change this for hotter— not scalding, how- 
ever — and leave the beans to get cold. Two hours before 
dinner, put them on in cold water slightly salted, and cook 
soft. They should not break. When done, turn off all the 
water except about half a cupful, and stir in four or five 



1 1 2 COTTAGE -KITCHEN. 

great spoonfuls of diluted gravy or weak soup-stock in 
•which a small onion has simmered for half an hour. This 
gravy should then be strained, and a little chopped pars- 
ley added before it goes into the beans. Stevr gently ten 
minutes, and dish, without draining. 

Cold beans may be made savory by warming them up 
slowly in weak gravy seasoned with onion and parsley. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Boiled Beans (dried). 

Soak aU night in water that was lukewarm when poured 
over them. In the morning exchange this for warmer, 
and leave two hours. Put the drained beans over the fire 
with plenty of cold water and a bit of salt pork — ^just a 
slice -to flavor them. Cook very slowly until soft, but not 
broken to pieces. Drain off the water, dish the beans, 
pepper to taste, and, chopping the pork very fine, mix 
well through th^m. 

Buttered Beans. 

These make a pleasant variety in the winter bill of fare. 
Treat as directed in the foregoing receipt, omitting the 
pork in boiling, and salting the water shghtly. Cook two 
hours slowly, and when the beans are soft and mealy, and 
the skins show signs of breaking, drain off aU the water, 
leaving the beans in a hot colander. Set this over an 
empty saucepan ; lay a cloth lightly folded on the beans, 
put the saucepan where it wiU keep hot for half aft hour, 
or' until the beans are dry, very mealy, and slightly 
cracked throughout. Salt, pepper, and stir, with a fork, a 
tablespt>onful of butter through them, turn into a hot dish, 
and eat hot. 

They are very nice. 



BEANS. 113 



Beans with White Sauce. 

Soak a quart of white dried beans all night in lukewarm 
water. Drain this off ia the morning, and cover with 
more as hot as you can bear your hand in. Soak ia this 
two hours, throw this away, and put the beans over the 
fire in plenty of cold water slightly salted. When they 
have cooked slowly until soft, heat in a saucepan a cup of 
mUk (adding a bit of soda not larger than a pea) and half 
an onion, cut smaJl. Simmer ten minutes, and strain, 
squeezing hard to get the onion-flavor ; return to the 
saucepan, stir in a tablespoonful of butter roUed in a tea^ 
spoonful of flour, pepper, salt, and a little minced parsley. 
Drain the beans dry, and turn into a hot, deep dish, pour 
the sauce over them, set the dish, covered, in hot water 
ten minutes, and send to the table. Try it ! 

Beans a Lyonnaise. 

Soak and boil as directed in the foregoing receipt, drain 
perfectly dry, throw in a little salt, and leave over an 
empty pot in the colander at the side of the range as you 
would potatoes, to " dry off." Have ready in a frying-pan 
a great spoonful of clarified dripping (that from roast beef 
is best), with half a smaU onion minced very fine, and a 
little chopped parsley. Salt and pepper to taste, and 
when hissing hot put in the beans. Shake over the fire 
- about two minutes, until the contents of the pan are well- 
mixed; and as hot as may be without scorching, then 
serve. 

Beans left from yesterday may be cooked over in this 
manner, and are very savory. Fresh Lima and other 
shell-beans are nice when thus served on the second 
day. 



114 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Fried Beans. 

Soak and boil in the usual way, and let them get per- 
fectly cold, after draining them. Or, take shelled beans 
of any kind — Lima, kidney, fresh or dried — that were 
boiled for dinner yesterday, and mash them partially in a 
bowl with the back of a wooden spoon. Cook in a frying- 
pan three or four slices — narrow ones — of salt pork until 
crisp, take them out and keep warm. Pepper the fat left 
in the pan, and put in the beans. Stir with a fork until - 
very hot, dish, and lay the strips of crisp pork about the 
heap. 

Lima and Other Shelled Beans. 

Shell into cold water, and leave there half an hour. Put 
over the fire in plenty of boiling water, slightly salted, and 
boil one hour, or until tender. Drain off all the water 
through a colander, shake lightly, and turn into a deep 
dish. Pepper and salt to taste, stir in a spoonful of but- 
ter, and eat hot. 

Strirtg.Beans (fresh). 

Top and tail, and unless they are very yoimg, pare both 
sides with a sharp penknife. The superiority of the dish 
when thus prepared will repay you for the trouble. Cut 
■into inch-lengths, boil one hour in plenty of boiling water, 
a little salt. When tender, drain in a warm colander, 
turn into a hot deep dish, and pepper and salt. Stir in a 
tablespoonful of butter, and send to table. Pass vinegar 
fpr those who like it with beans. 

String-beans, cooked as above, and served as soon as 
done, are a very different vegetable from the woody, rank, 
or insipid dull-green lengths floating in a pond of dingy 
milk or greasy water and served in saucers — the form and 
condition by which they are known to so many. 



TOMATOES. 1 1 5 

String.Beans {canned). 

Drain off all the liquor and leave the beans ia an open 
bowl in a cool place for some hours, to rid them of the 
close airless taste inseparable from what are sold as 
"canned goods." Then, cook gently half an hour in 
enough salted boiling water to cover them, drain well, 
season with pepper, salt, and butter. 

Before cooking, look them over and pick out bits of 
fibre, also, cut into lengths as nearly uniform as you can 
make them. 



TOMATOES, 



Stewed Tomatoes (canned). 

Open and empty the can some hours before you mean 
to cook the contents. The flavor will be much improved 
by this precaution. Drain off half the liquor, and set 
away for future use. It will add piquancy to soup, gravy, 
and meat-sauces, and will be especially valuable for maca- 
roni. If you do not foresee an early occasion for it, pour 
it into a saucepan, pepper and salt it, and boil fifteen 
minutes. It wiU keep several days when this is done. 

Season the tomatoes for to-day with a saltspoonful of 
salt, haK as much pepper, and an even teaspoonful of 
sugar. Some like the addition of a little minced onion. 
Stew /as< half an hour in a tin pail or saucepan, set in a ves- 
sel of water kept at a hard boil from the moment the toma- 
toes go in. Then, stir in a heaping teaspoonful of butter, 
simmer ten minutes, covered, in the hot water, and they 
are ready for the table. 

This receipt is less troublesome than the usual method 



Il6 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

of stevping tomatoes, and the result far more satisfactory. 
If there are hard, green bits and cores in the can, remove 
before stewing, and break up whole tomatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes (fresh). 

Throw boiling water over them to loosen the skins, 
peel and cut into small pieces. When all are sliced, drain 
off two-thirds of the juice, put the tomatoes over the fire 
in a saucepan, and stew gently twenty minutes after they 
begin to boil. Season then vrith salt, pepper, and a httle 
white sugar, and five minutes later vpith a good teaspoon- 
ful of butter. Simmer five minutes longer, and serve. 

Baked Tomatoes {cannec^. 

Drain off at least two-thirds of the liquor and reserve for 
purposes designated in receipt for stewed canned tomatoes. 
Strew fine, dry criunbs in the bottom of a buttered pie or 
pudding-dish, lay the tomatoes on this, seasoned with a 
little salt, pepper, and sugar. Scatter some bits of minced 
onion and a tablespoonful of butter, cut small, on the 
surface, and cover with a layer of crumbs. Cover the 
dish and bake half an hour ; then remove the lid, and set 
on the upper grating of the oven until lightly browned. 

Baked Tomatoes {fresh— 'No. 1): 

Choose fair tomatoes, ripe and of good size. Cut a 
piece from the top of each, scoop out the pulp and chop 
it in a tray with a handful of bread-crumbs, pepper, a 
little sugar, some minced onion (not too much), and a slice 
of cold boiled salt pork— fat. Mince fine, mix well, and 
fill the tomato-shells vnth this force-meat. Eeplace "the 
pieces cut from the tops, arrange closely togetiber in a 



TOMATOES. 117 

buttered pudding-dish, and bake, covered, half an hour. 
Tate off the cover and brown, before sending to table. 
They are delicious. 

Baked Tomatoes (/re«A— No. 3). 

Peel -with a sharp knife, and slice. Chop very small 
two good slices of fat salt pork. Put a layer of tomatoes 
in a buttered pudding-dish, pepper and salt lightly, sugar 
as lightly, and strew with pork. Many like a little 
chopped onion as well. Cover vdth fine dry crumbs. Fill 
the dish in this order, having crumbs at top. Bake, cov- 
ered, thirty minutes, then brown, and serve in the pud- 
ding-dish. 

Scalloped Tomatoes and Corn {fresh). 

Pare and slice the tomatoes, and cut — or if full-gi-own, 
grate — the com from the cob. Cover the bottom of a 
pudding-dish with dry fine crumbs, and these with shoes 
of tomato. Sprinkle with salt, pepper,' sugar, and but- 
ter-bits, and strew thickly with corn, also salted and pep- 
pered. Fill the dish with alternate strata of tomatoes and 
com, seasoned ; coat thickly at top wdth crumbs, cover 
and bake thirty minutes, then brown. 

A fair substitute for this dish may be made by using 
canned tomatoes, carefully drained, and canned com, also 
drained and chopped fine. The half-can of each ingredi- 
ent left from soup or stew may be utilized thus, or the 
remains of stewed tomatoes and corn cooked yesterday. 

Stewed Tomatoes and Corn. 

Pare and cut up the tomatoes, and pack them in a sauce- 
pan with grated corn, as directed above, omitting the 
crumbs and butter, and adding a little minced onion. 
Cover closely, and stew gently half an hour. Stir in a 



Il8 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

heaping tablespoonful of butter, cover, and simmer ten 
minutes before turning into a deep dish. 

Spinach 

Is very cheap at some seasons of the year, and always 
■wholesome. - Watch the markets, and when you can afford 
it, by all means set this excellent vegetable, properly 
cooked, on your table. It is too often ruined by bad 
handling, and is, in consequence, less popular than it de- 
serves to be. 

Boiled Spinach. 

Wash, and pick over carefully, leaf by leaf. Boil twenty 
minutes in plenty of boiling water, a little salt. Drain in 
a colander, pressing gently to get out the water ; turn into 
a tray and chop very fine, until you could rub it through 
a colander and leave nothing behind. It should be a 
smooth puree. Transfer from, the chopping-tray to a 
saucepan, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper 
to taste, and a mere dust of nutmeg. As it begins to 
smoke, draw to the side of the stove, and beat hard with a 
fork or split spoon to a batter. Set over the fire, still stir- 
ring, untU it bubbles all over; and serve in a deep dish. 

Pass vinegar with spinach for those who like it. The 
excellence of this dish depends upon seasoning and beat- 
ing, but it is easUy made by one who wiU obey directions 
exactly. 

SQUASH. 



Boiled Squash. 

Peel, quarter, remove the seeds, and lay in cold water 
for half an hour. Drain, and drop in enough salted boil- 



CORN. 119 

ing water to cover it well. Boil half an hour in summer, 
twice as long in winter. Press out the water through a 
colander, put the squash into a tray, and chop and mash 
until there are no lumps left in it. Then turn into a 
saucepan or tin pail, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter, 
with two of milk, salt and pepper to taste. Set the sauce- 
pan in a vessel of boiling water over the fire, and stir and 
beat the squash to a smooth, smoking mass. It shoiild 
be. very hot when it goes to table, as it soon cools into 
insipidity. 

Scalloped Squash. 

If for any reason cooked squash is left over from the 
family dinner, a nice dish can be made of it the next day 
in the following manner : 

To a cupful of cold squash allow a beaten egg and three 
tablespoonfuls of milk, warmed until a tablespoonful of 
butter rolled in flour melts on the top, but not until the 
mUk scalds. Mix up well, pepper and salt to taste, and 
put the mixture into a buttered pie-plate, sift fine crumbs 
thickly over it, and brown delicately in a brisk oven. 
Send to table before it falls. It is very nice. 



CORN. 



Boiled Corn. 

Use well-filled, but tender ears for this purpose. The 
best method of cooking them is to strip off the coarser 
outer husks, leaving the thin, silky envelope next the ear 
on the stalk. Pull this down and pick off all the silk from 
between the grains, adjust the inner husks in their place, 
tie together at the top, and drop the corn in plenty of 



I20 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

boiling salted water. Boil half an hour, and leave in hot 
water until you are ready to send it in. Cut the stalks oif 
with the husks closfe to the bottom of the ears, and send 
to table, wrapped about with a napMn, on a flat dish. 

Green Corn Fritters. 

Grate, or shave off with a keen blade, the grains from 
six ears of green com. Have ready in a bowl two eggs 
beaten light, a cup of milk added to these with a table- 
spoonful of sugar, and the same quantity of butter 
warmed and rubbed into a heaping tablespoonful of pre- 
pared flour. Season with pepper and salt, beat hard, and 
fry as you would griddle-cakes. 

Canned Corn Fritters. 

Canned corn, when simply stewed, is a wretched substi- 
tute for that most delicious and succulent of American 
esculents — green maize on the ear. Chopped fine it may 
take the place of the summer delicacy in the above re- 
ceipt with more credit to itself than would be believed 
by those who have never seen it thus manipulated.. Open 
and empty the can some hours before the com is to be 
used, drain dry and mince faithfully, then proceed as with 
the fresh. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

6 ears of green com, full-grown but tender. 
2 cups of milk. 
2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Cream, butter, and sugar as for a cake. Beat into the 
eggs when you have whipped these light, add milk and 



CORN. 121 

the com grated, or shaved thin from the cob with a sharp 
knife. Season, beat up thoroughly, and bake, covered, in 
a buttered pudding-dish, forty minutes, then vmcover and 
brown. Serve at once in the dish in which it was 
cooked. 

Canned Corn Pudding. 

Empty the can several hours before you need to use the 
corn, and drain off all the liquid througb a colander. 
Chop the com very fine, and mix the pudding according 
to the receipt given for Green Com Pudding. 

Succotash. 

6 ears of com. 

1 cup of shelled Lima or of string-beans, carefully 

trimmed and cut into inch lengths. 
■J- cup of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of butter cut up in 1 teaspoonful of 

flour. 
Salt and pepper. 

Cut the com from the cob and add to the beans when 
they have cooked half an hour in boiling water, slightly 
salted. Boil thirty minutes longer, turn off the water and 
pour in the mOk. (It is safer in warm weather to add a 
tiny pinch of soda.) As the mUk heats, stir in the 
floured butter, season, and simmer ten minutes. 

If canned com and beans are used, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar. 

Chopped Potatoes and Corn. 

When cold boiled potatoes and several ears of boiled 

green com are found in the refrigerator or store-room, 

chop the one into rather coarse dice and cut the 

other from the cob. Heat in a frying-pan a good spoon- 

6 



122 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

ful of clarified dripping, sweet and good, and stir into 
this the potatoes and corn, seasoning with pepper and 
salt ; toss and turn until thoroughly heated, and serve. 
A good breakfast reHsh. 

Or, 
Tou can, if you have it to' spare, heat a cup of milk, stir 
in a good spoonful of butter, then mix in potatoes and 
corn, season, simmer five minutes, and dish. 



HOMINY. 



Boiled Hominy. 

Soak the small-grained hominy all night in just enough 
water to cover it. In the morning put into a pail or 
saucepan with cold water sufficient to leave three or four 
inches of clear liquid above the hominy ; salt slightly, and 
set in a pot or pan of boiling water. As the contents of 
the inner vessel heat, stir up well from the bottom, and 
repeat this frequently while it boils. It wiU take an hour 
to cook it properly. It should be as thick as mush, and 
a clear white in color. 

Eat with milk and sugar, or vrith milk only. 

Fried Hominy. 

Cut the remnant of your boiled hominy — now cold and 
firm — ^iato slices or squares. Dip each in flour and fry to 
a fine brown. As each piece takes on the right shade, re- 
move from the hissing fat to a hot colander, and when all 
are ready, lay on a heated dish. There should not be a 
drop of superfluous grease. Cover with a napkin, and eat 
hot with sugar or molasses, or, as a vegetable, with meat. 



HOMINY. 123 

Cold mush is cooked in the same way, and both this and 
hominy are better, say some, for being coated with meal, 
instead of flour. 

Hominy Croquettes. 

To a cupful of cold boiled hominy add a tablespoonful 
of melted butter ; stir well, then add gradually a cupful 
of milk, stirring and mashing the hominy until it becomes 
a soft, smooth paste. Then add a teaspoonful of white 
sugar and a weU-beaten egg. RoU into oval baUs with 
floured hands, coat thickly with flour, and fry in plenty of 
boiling lard or nice clarified beef or pork dripping. 

Baked Hominy. 

1 cupful of " small " hominy — boiled and entirely cold. 

2 cups of milk. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Salt to taste. 

Pound and rub the hominy in a bowl with a potato- 
beetle until it is a mass of fine, dry grains. Carefully 
remove aU bits of skin and rub out lumps. Now melt the 
butter, and work it in well ; next the eggs, beaten up to a 
cream with the sugar, the salt, and lastly, and by degrees, 
the mUk. Beat well and hard, turn into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish, bake covered thirty minutes, then brown. Serve 
in the dish as a vegetable. 

An excellent substitute for green com pudding. 



124 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

MACARONI. 



Stewed Macaroni, with CPieese. 

Boil half a pound of stick-macaroni, broken into inch 
bits, in hot water, salted, until very tender. Drain weU 
and heap in a deep dish. Have ready a cupful of drawn 
butter, in which stir three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 
Pour this over the macaroni, hfting the mass here and 
there to let the sauce penetrate to every part. Cover and 
leave in a warm corner five minutes before it goes to the 
table. 

Baked Macaroni. 

■J lb. pipe, or stick-macaroni. 
■J cupful grated cheese. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
■J cupful of milk. 
Salt to taste. 

Break the macaroni in pieces an inch long, and boil 
gently in hot water, sUghtly salted, until tender all through, 
but not to breaking. Twenty minutes wiU suffice. Drain 
in a colander, and put a layer of macaroni in a greased 
pudding-dish. Over this scatter cheese and tiny bits of 
butter, with a Httle salt. More macaroni, until the dish is 
filled in this order. A thicker layer of cheese should 
cover the top. Pour in the milk with a little of the water 
in which the macaroni was boiled. Invert a pan or tin 
plate over the dish while it bakes, until it has been half an 
hour in a steady oven. Remove the cover then and brown 
the top quickly. Send to table in the bake-dish. 

Macaroni in Italian Style. 

Boil as directed in receipt for Stewed Macaroni with 
Cheese, but instead of the drawn butter, use for sauce 



MACARONI. 125 

half a cupful of hot weaJi broth or soup-stock mixed with 
nearly a cupful of stewed tomatoes, strained, or of tomato- 
juice drained from a can, the contents of which were used 
for other purposes. Add a heaping teaspoonful of butter 
roUed in flour, pepper and salt weU. Drain the boiled 
macaroni, put a layer in a deep dish, sprinkle with guated 
cheese, and put over it a spoonful of the hot sauce, then 
more macaroni, cheese, and sauce, until the macaroni is 
used up. Pour the rest of the sauce over the t6p, cover 
the dish, and set in hot water five minutes before sending 
to table. 

This is a delightful side-dish. 



Macaroni with Onion Sauce. 

^Ib. macaroni. 

1 small onion, chopped. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 scant tablespoonful of butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 

Pepper and salt. 

Bit of soda no larger than a pea stirred in the miUr. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths. Boil twenty 
minutes in hot salted water. Simmer the mUk in a sauce- 
pan with the onion ten minutes, then strain through a 
coarse cloth, pressing hard to get the full flavor of the 
onion. Eetum to the saucepan, stir in the butter rolled 
in a teaspoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of cheese, 
pepper and salt, lastly, the macaroni. 

Heat for two minutes ; turn into a vegetable-dish, and 
sprinkle the rest of the cheese on top. 

It is very savory. 



126 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Bettina's Macaroni. 



Boil as above directed, and prepare the sauce without 
the onion. When the cheese, butter, and seasoninig have 
gone in, stir in two beaten eggs — one if you cannot spare 
two* Stir and simmer until these thicken up well. Put 
a layer of the hot macaroni in a deep dish, then a httle of 
the sauce, more macaroni and more sauce imtil your ma- 
terials are used up, having a thick coating of sauce on top. 
Sprinkle dry cheese all over the surface, hold a red-hot 
shovel close enough to brown this, blowing out the fire 
should it blaze. This is a good country dish when eggs 
are abundant, and will be hked anywhere. 

Moulded Macaroni. 

Boil half a pound of macaroni in salted hot water twen- 
ty miautes, drain, and let it get cold. Put it, when quite 
stiff, in a tray and chop fine, add a half-cupful of any cold 
meat you may chance to have in the house, minced very- 
fine. Have ready a cupful of milk in which half a minced 
onion has been simmered ten minutes, then strained out 
Add a beaten egg, pepper and salt to taste, a teaspoonful 
of butter rolled in a like quantity of flour, cook one min- 
ute and stir gradually into the minced meat and maca- 
ronL Lastly, put in a tablespoonful of grated cheese, pour 
the mixture into a weU-greased tin mould with a top (use 
a tin pail if you have nothing better), set in a pot of boU- 
iiig water, taking care not to submerge it entirely, and boil 
one hour and a half. 

Dip in cold water one minute, to loosen the pudding, 
and turn out. 

Cold boiled macaroni — or baked — ^left from yesterday, 
wiU. serve as the base of this pudding. If you have any 
cold drawn butter or sauce in the pantry, heat with an 



RICE. 127 

equal quantity of strained tomato-sauce, and send in in a 
gravy-boat, to be poured over the pudding when cut at 
table. 

Study such contrivances as are hinted at in this and 
many other receipts to bring savoriness and cheer out of 
chin flatness ; to make the second appearance of a dish 
more welcome than the first. It is well worth your whUe. 



RICE. 



Rice Boiled Plain. 

If we may judge from the infrequency of the appear 
ance of .this valuable cereal, properly boiled, upon our 
tables, the preparation of it in this form must be a deli- 
cate and arduous business. Every half-trained cook fan- 
cies that she can boil rice. Like dish-washing, it has been 
taken for granted untU the simple right way of doing it is 
likely to fall entirely into desuetude. If the rules given with 
this receipt are exactly obeyed, we shall see rice boiled as 
the South Carolina cooks set if before those for whom 
they cater. It is not surprising that there it should be 
popular, or that those who have eaten it cooked thus 
■should turn disgustfully from the watery or pasty mass 
of gray tastelessness which is all thousands know as 
" boiled rice." 

Wash in cold water, picking out discolored grsHns and 
bits of chaflf. Soak two hours in cold water, drain in a 
fine sieve or through a cloth, and shake weU. in this until 
perfectly dry. Then put over the fire in plenty of boiling 
water, slightly salted. If you have half a cup of raw rice, 
put at least three pints of water. Cook twenty minutes, 
shaking the saucepan upward briskly several times to 



128 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

prevent clogging or scorching. Do not touch it with a 
spoon. Try a few grains to make sure they are tender, 
and drain off all the water. (You can add it to your soup- 
stock if you like.) If your colander is too coarse for 
straining the rice, and you have no fine sieve, lay a bit of 
coarse net or tarletan in the former. Set it, with the rice 
in it, back on the stove over an empty pot, and let the rice 
"dry off" as you would potatoes. Every grain should 
stand apart from the rest, yet be perfectly done. A httle 
thoughtfulness is aU that is required to secure this result. 

Boiled Rice and Cheese. 

BoU. exactly as directed in last receipt, drain off the 
water, and put the rice back into the saucepan over the 
fire. With a fork, mix into it a teaspoonful of butter and 
two tablespoonfuls of dry grated cheese, with a little cay- 
enne pepper and salt to taste. Toss and stir two miautes, 
and dish hot. It is very good, although you may not be- 
lieve it until you try it. 

Rice witli Tomato Sauce. 

Eemember this dish when you find some day in your 
pantry half a cup of stewed tomatoes left from yesterday, 
or as much tomato-juice drained from the can you opened 
for another dish. Skim the gravy, and put with the to- 
mato over the fire to heat at the same time you set the 
soaked rice to boiL Or, if you have also on the cupboard 
sheK a cupful of cold boUed rice, add a very little boiling 
water, put into a tia pail, cover, and set in scalding water 
until very hoi Draia, set back on the stove to dry off ; 
strain your gravy, season well, return to the fire and stir 
in a teaspoonful of butter roUed in the same quantity of 
browned flour, a little chopped parsley, if you have it ; boil 
up once, dish the rice and pour the gravy over it. 



RICE. 129 

Savory Rice. 

Treat as above, only adding to the rice a half-cupful or 
more minced meat, well-seasoned, when you put it back 
on the stove to dry off, and, if you Hke, a beaten egg. 
Hard-boiled egg, minced very fine, is also a pleasant addi- 
tion, as it is to many made dishes. Heap the" mixture, 
made very hot, on a dish, and pour the sauce, prepared as 
directed in last receipt, over it. 

Savory Rice Pudding. 

■J- cup raw rice, boiled as directed for Boiled Bice. 

i cup of milk 

i cup soup-stock or gravy, strained. 

5 or 6 tablespoonfuls of cold meat, muiced fine. 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 

1 raw egg, beaten Hght. 

1 teaspoonful of flour wet in cold water. 

Bit of soda no larger than a pea stirred in the mUk. 
BoU the rice and set to dry off — if you have no cold 
boiled rice. Heat the gravy with the onion ten minutes ; 
strain and press out the latter. Scald the milk, stir in the 
flour, cook until it thickens, and add the gravy. Take 
from the fire and turn into a bowl upon the beaten egg, 
add the meat, lastly the rice, mix up well, and pour into a 
greased pudding-mould or tin paiL Fit on the top, set 
in boiling water, and cook one hour. Dip in cold water 
and turn out. 

A cheap and excellent family dish. 

Ciblet Rice Pudding. 

This is made as the pudding last described, only that, 
instead of the chopped meat, the giblets of two chickens 



I30 COTTAGE itlTCHEN. 

or one turkey are set on to cook in a cupful of cold water, 
a tablespoonful of chopped salt pork and a very little onion 
being added. When the giblets are tender, take them out 
and chop them small. Strain the gravy, rubbing the pork 
through the colander into it, thicken with a teaspoonful of 
flour, turn out upon the beaten egg, and stir in the giblets, 
then the boiled rice. Cook as directed. "When you have 
poultry, forecast this for the next day's dinner, and keep 
back the giblets. They go further, and are more popular 
in this form than when roasted or boiled as mere adjuncts 
to fowls. 

Rice Croquettes. 

1 cupful raw rice. 

1 raw egg, well beaten. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar, and the same of melted butter. 

A very little nutmeg. 

Salt. 

Boil the rice, and let it get perfectly cold — not only cool, 
but stiff. Beat up with the egg the sugar, butter, salt, and 
nutmeg. Work this mixture into the rice, stirring and 
beating until all the^ ingredients are incorporated in the 
paste, and the lumps rubbed out. Make, with floured 
hands, into oblong roUs, about three inches in length and 
haK an inch in diameter. Coat these thickly with flour, 
and set them in a cold place until needed. Fry — ^a few at 
a time — ^in hot lard or dripping, rolling them over as they 
begin to brown to preserve their shape. As each is taken 
from the fat, put into a hot colander to drain and dry. 

Eat as a vegetable. But they make a good after-meat 
course, eaten with powdered sugar or sweet sauce. 



CABBAGE. 131 

CABBAGE. 



Boiled Plain. 

Quarter and wash -well, looking sharply for slugs that 
sometimes nestle in the very heart. Put over the fire in 
enough hot salted water to cover it weU. Boil fifteen 
minutes, drain off all the water and cover with more, salted 
and boiling. Cook in this until very tender ; take up, 
drain well in a colander, turn into a tray and chop pretty 
fine — -fast — put into a very hot dish and season with pep- 
per, salt, and a httle butter. Set in hot water five minutes 
and send to table. Pass vinegar with it. 

Or, 

After the first boU of fifteen minutes, turn off the water 
and put into the second a two-inch square bit of streaked 
pork. Take this out and keep hot while you chop the 
cabbage, and when it is dished cut the pork into neat 
slices and lay about it. Omit the butter in seasoning, and 
add a Httle hot vinegar to pepper and salt. 

Always boil cabbage in two waters. 

Scalloped Cabbage. 

1 cup of cold boiled cabbage, chopped. 

1 raw egg. 

2 teaspoonfuls of butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Pepper and salt. 

Dry bread-crumbs. 
Beat the egg, melt the butter, and add a bit of soda 
hardly bigger than a large pin's head to the milk ; stir 
into the egg, season,*beat in the cabbage, which should be 



,132 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

finely minced, and bake, covered, thirty minutes, in a 
greased pie-plate. Uncover then, sift fine crumbs over it, 
and brown quickly on the upper grating of the oven. 



ONIONS. 



Boiled Onions. 

Peel, keeping hands, knife, and onions under water 
while the process is going on, and little or no odor will 
cling to your fingers, none arise to make your eyes smart 
and water. By such trifling precautions avoid annoyance 
when you can, and lighten disagreeable tasks. 

Put the onions on to boU ia. fresh scalding water. Cook 
in this fifteen minutes if they are young, twenty if full- 
grown. Throw away every drop of water and pour in 
more boiling, add a small teaspoonful of salt, and cook 
rather gently until they are very tender. Drain in a hot 
colander, serve in a deep, heated dish, pepper and salt to 
taste, and put a good lump of butter in with the onions. 

Onions, like cabbages, should invariably be boiled in two 
waters, and thoroughly cooked. Then they take a place 
among our most nutritious vegetables. 

Fricasseed Onions. 

Boil fifteen or twenty minutes in fresh water, drain, and 
cover them with a cupful of weak gravy or soup-stock 
skimmed, heated to a boU, seasoned well, and strained. 
Simmer the onions tender in this, add a little minced pars- 
ley, and a teaspoonful of butter rubbed in a like quantity 
of floui', boU up once, and send to table in a hot, deep dish. 

Onions should be cooked in a tin or porcelain sauce- 
pan, as iron darkens them. 



GREEN PEAS. 133 

BEETS. 



Boiled Beets. 

Wash well, taking care not to scratch or break the skin. 
Boil three-quarters of an hour if young, two hours or 
more if old, putting them on in boiling water. Scrage off 
the skins, slice with a clean sharp knife into a warmed 
deep dish, and pour over them, at once, a sauce made of 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar heated with one of butter, 
a saltspoonful of salt, and half as much pepper. Cover 
and serve hot. Beets cool more quickly than most other 
vegetables. 

When really cold they make a nice salad with the addi- 
tion of more vinegar, and, if you choose, a Uttle oil. 

Lyonnaise Beets. 

Boil yovmg beets in the usual manner, scrape and cut 
them into dice. Have ready in a frying-pan a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, two of vinegar, a tablespoonful of very finely 
minced onion, a saltspoonful of salt, and half as much pep- 
per. When these are very hot, add the beets and simmer 
ten minutes, tossing often with a fork to prevent scorch- 
ing. Serve hot. 



GREEN PEAS. 



Boiled Green Peas. 



Shell into very cold water, and leave them in this half an 
hour. Cook in boiling water, slightly salted, twenty-five 
minutes. If you buy them in a city market, add a lump 
of white sugar. Drain thoroughly, turn from the colander 



134 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

into a heated dish and stir in a tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper and salt to taste; 

Never throw away so little as a teaspoonful of green 
peas. They "work in" well in stews, soups, and, as we 
shall see, in pancakes. 

^ Canned Green Peas. 

The canned French peas {pois verts) are a tolerable 
substitute for fresh, but very expensive. The American 
are, when simply boiled — intolerable, and cost less than 
half as much as the imported. They may, however, be 
made palatable in the winter dearth of green food by two 
or three processes. First and best, I write down 

Green Pea Pancakes. 

Mash the peas while hot, ^nd work in butter, pepper, 
and salt. (If the peas are cold, heat the butter and pound 
the peas smooth with a potato-beetle.) Beat in two eggs, 
a cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, and twice as 
much cream of tartar sifted three times through half a cup- 
ful of flour. Beat up well, and bake as you would griddle- 
cakes. 

If you use prepared flour; omit soda and cream of tartar. 
Never forget to open the can several hours before cDoking' 
the peas. Throw away the liquor, and leave the peas in 
very cold clean water until you are ready for them. This 
freshens them to taste as well as sight. 

Pea Pur^e on Toast. 

Open the can early in the day, throw ofi' the liquor and 
leave the peas in cold water until you wish to cook them. 
BoU twenty-five minutes in hot, salted water, mash with a. 
Botato-beetie and rub through a colander. Have ready 



TURNIPS. 135 

in a saucepan, half a cupful of strained gravy or soup- 
stock, liighly seasoned, a small lump of sugar, a teaspoon- 
f ul of butter rubbed ia the same quantity of flour. When 
hot stir in the peas, and toss about until they bubble and 
smoke — say, for three minutes. Toast rounds or triangles 
of stale bread and lay on a flat disk Pour a tablespoon- 
ful of boiling salted water on each, spread lightly with 
butter, and heap the pirr^e on them. 



TURNIPS. 



Boiled Turnips 

Are generally the accompaniment of corned beef. If 
they are young, peel and cut in half, lay one hour in cold 
water, then dip from the pot in which the beef is cooldng 
a quart of the Uquor — strain through a cloth, bring to a 
boil in a saucepan, put in the turnips and cook forty-five 
minutes. Treat winter turnips in the same way, but cut 
into quarters and boil twice as long. Drain, and lay 
ab&ut the beef when dished. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Peel and slice into very cold water. When all are 
ready, drop into a pot of boiling water a little salted. 
Cook steadUy untU tender, when turn into a colander. 
Mash and press to get out the water ; put back into the 
pot with a spoonful of butter, salt and pepper, and beat 
smooth while they heat. Serve up hot. Lultewarm, wa- 
tery, and lumpy turnips are abominable. 

Stewed Turnips. 

Young turnips should be used for this dish. Peel and 
lay in cold water, cutting them in halves if of fair size. 



136 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Boil twenty minutes in hot, salted, water, drain this off and 
put in half a cup of milk (with a tiny pinch of soda) and 
half a cup of boiling water. Bring to a bubbling simmer 
and stir in two teaspoonfuls of butter rolled in half as 
much flour, pepper and salt to taste. Stew gently until 
very tender, and serye in a deep dish. 



PARSNIPS. 



Boiled Parsnips. 

Boil in hof^water until tender. Scrape off the, skins 
and slice lengthwise. As each slice is laid in the dish, 
butter it well, salt and pepper lightly. Send in covered, 
and hot. 

Parsnips witli White Sauce. 

Boil, scrape and slice. (Cook winter parsnips nearly two 
hours, smnmer parsnips half as long.) Butter well and 
put into a deep dish. Heat in a saucepan half a cupful 
of milk, stir in a teaspoonful of butter roUed in one of 
flour, pepper and salt to taste. Stir until well thickened 
and pour over the parsnips. 

Parsnips are not a cheap dish unless when raised in a 
country where butter is not dear. They are not eatable 
without an abundant addition of this. 

Fried Parsnips. 

This is the most economical way of cooking them. Boil, 
and let them get cold before you scrape or shoe. Roll 
each piece in flour and fry to a light brown in hot, clari- 
fied dripping, turning as they brown. Drain off the fat, 
pepper, salt, and serve. 



PORRIDGE OF VARIOUS KINDS. 1 37 

Radishes 

Are — to alter Mr. Lincoln's faiaous saying — very much 
liked by those who are fond of them. 

They should be lightly scraped for the table, and the 
tops removed to within an inch of the pink root. Wash 
well, set ia a glass of very cold water to keep them bright 
and crisp, and eat with salt, passing bread-and-butter with 
them. 



PORRIDGE OF VARIOUS KINDS. 



Oatmeal Porridge. 

Soak a breaifast-cupf ul of oatmeal all night in enough 
water to cover it well. In the morning drain it and put 
into a tin pail set in a pot or pan of hot water. If you 
have no farina-kettle, you can contrive a very tolerable 
substitute in this way. Add warm water to the soaked 
oatmeal, and as it heats stir it deeply and frequently, put- 
ting in "boiling water from the teakettle should it thicken 
too much. "When it has cooked one hour, salt to your 
taste, taking care not to put in too much, and keep the 
water in the outer vessel at a hard boil — ^the inner covered 
until breakfast-time, except when stirring it. This must 
be done often. 

You cannot cook it too much. It should be like thick 
batter when poured out, not the lumpy dough one is used 
to seeiag imder the name of oatmeal porridge. Should 
there be any left from breakfast, save it and warm it up 
the second day by stirring or beating in a little boUing 
water, and then cooking it as upon the first morning in 
your improvised farinar-kettle. Eat with mUk and with or 
without sugar, as you may prefer. 



138 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Indian Meal Porridge. 

2 cups of boiling water. 

■^ teaspoonful of salt. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, wet up with 
2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Stir the wet meal into the salted boiling water, and 
cook one hour, stirring often. By putting ia half the 
quantity of meal you have gruel, an admirable laxative for 
invalids. Leave out the milk in making gruel, when the 
effect desired is that I have indicated. Eat the porridge 
with milk, the gruel with salt. 

Milk Porridge. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
A Htile salt 

Boil the mUk and stir in the flour, wet up with cold 
milk. Salt and stir steadily until the mixture is well 
thickened. Cook this, as you should all preparations of 
boUed mUk, custard, etc., in a tia vessel set ia boiltng 
water. Keep the water ia the outer vessel at a hard boil 
for half an hour, stirring deeply and thoroughly from iime- 
to time that the milk may not lump. Turn, when you are 
ready for it, into a deep dish, and eat veith butter and 
sugar, or with sugar alone. 

Mush-and-Milk. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
2 cups Indian meal. 

1 teaspoonful of salt — heaping. 
Wet up meal and flour ia cold water enoiigh to make a 
thick paste, salting them while dry. Be sure the water on- 



PORRIDGE OF VARIOUS KINDS. 1 39 

the fire is boiling when you put in the paste. BoU. one 
hour — not less, and more will not hiirt — stirring often 
down to the bottom, and beating with a wooden spoon to 
get out lumps. Empty into a deep, uncovered dish, and 
eat in saucers with TnilTr poured over it. Some sprinMe 
each saucerful with sugar. 



Crumb Porridge. 

Imprimis — never throw away bits of stale bread, crumb 
or crust. Keep them in a dry place until you have quite a 
dripping-panful, then set them in the oven all night to dry. 
In the morning, crush them fine on the pastry-board with 
a rolling-pin, and put them away in a glass or stone jar 
with a close top. They are invaluable for thickening some 
kinds of gravy, for scallops, breaded chops, puddings, etc., 
the many purposes for which crushed crackers are bought 
— among others for a wholesome porridge which the chil- 
dren will like. 

2 cups of mUk, scalded in an inner kettle or pail set 
in boiling water. 

1 cup of hot water in which is soaked a scant cupful 
of crumbs. 

A scant teaspoonful of salt 

A good tablespoonful of butter. 

Salt the milk, and when it boUs remove the skin from 
the surface before stirring in the soaked bread. Simmer 
five minutes and put in the butter. Cook gently, stirring 
often and well, ten miautes, beat hard, and turn into a 
deep, covered dish. 

Eat with sugar and milk. If you can afford it, make it 
altogether with milk, leaving out the water. 



140 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Little Boy's Porridge. 

2 heaping tablespponfuls of Indian meal and a lite 
quantity of flour. 

1 cup of boiling water. 

2 cups of hot milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Wet up flour and meal with a little cold water and stir 
into the boiling water. Salt to taste, and cook steadily 
half an hour in a tin vessel set in a pot of hot water, stir- 
ring often. Then beat in the milk gradually, working out 
all the clots of paste, and cook ten minutes longer. Eat 
with milk and sugar. 



FAMILIAE TALK. 



THE MAID-OF-ALL-WORK. 

Heney James, Jk., in "Daisy Miller," plays witli a 
national and feminine weakness in depicting Mrs. Miller's 
amiable familiarity with the courier, who accepts it as his 
due, while sneering in his sleeve at "these Americans." 
We are irate with our very international countryman, but 
thankful, withal, that he is too Anghcan in experience to 
guess how far short of the truth his satire falls. It is a 
matter of fact that a rich family who had made the 
European tour under the direction of a clever courier, 
formerly an Englishman's valet, invited him to visit them 
in America, and when the fellow actually came, enter- 
tained him in their noble mansion as an honored guest, 
and invited their friends to meet him at a dinner party ! 

We do get the relations of tourist and coiirier oddly 
mixed up. We should be as much at a loss to know what 
to do with another personage known to us only through 
books — ^the English "slavey." In Boston, New York, or 
Philadelphia, The Marchioness would have run away from 
Miss Sally Brass by the time she could walk, or been res- 
cued by indignant neighbors. The girl with a smudge on 
her cheek and a continual cold in her head, sUpshod, 
scantily clad, wretchedly paid and overworked, conscious 
of misery, yet powerless to resist it — who figures in a 



142 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

hundred Britisli novels, miglit be sought for in vain in 
our kitchens and garret bedrooms. We dare not defraud 
or maltreat oior " girls," whom few dare call " servants." 
I hope that we would be kind and just to them if we were 
not compelled by pohcy and pubUo sentiment to include 
them in our catalogue of fellow-beings. 

Our maid-of-all-woi'k, if a native, calls herself "the 
young lady who engages to make herself generally useful" 
If Celtic, "a gurrel as hires for gineral housewmrek." 
The good-humored " colored person " is " wiUin' to do 
mos' anything 'bout de house, honey." One of these, per- 
haps each in succession, enters the cottage kitchen and 
ifixes the inexperienced nominal mistress with the eye of a 
ruler. Kindness goes far with all of them, gentle dignity 
and impartial justice, combined with a fair knowledge of 
housewifery, much further. It may seem unfeeling and 
irrelevant, ia this connection, to add that the known pos- 
session of wealth and social distinction goes furthest of all. 
Yet this pecuharity of the ignoble mind must be taken 
into consideration in our treatment of the subject. 
" Higher than himseK can no man think," is a motto we 
do well to keep before us if we would be charitable or 
even fair in our dealings with underlings in breeding and 
education. 

The invariable boast, "I've lived in none but the best of 
families," with which the applicant (by courtesy) appUes for 
"the place," should move you to pity, not to displeasure. 
The patronizing stare that comprehends in one sUghting 
sweep the modest dimensions and appointments of her 
future realm, the resigned shrug with which she unties 
the red strings of the purple bonnet with blue feathers, 
and " guesses she may as well stay now she is here," are 
but the protests the pride which is acquired makes against 
an ingrain sense of inferiority. If she really knew herself 



THE MAID-OF-ALL-WORK. 143 

to be your equal, slie would not assert it so offensively. 
There is always something that needs to be concealed 
when so much dust is raised. Here lies her mistake. 
Yours, and a more serious one by so much as you surpass 
her in good sense and knowledge of the world, would be 
to sink to her level by assuming imperiousness you do not 
feel, in the hope of keeping her in her place, or to court 
her feivor by servile praise and deference. You will prob- 
ably never spea>k of her as a servant, she wiU certainly 
never address you as "mistress," should you live together 
forty years. From the first, then, let the relation of em- 
ployer and employed be distinctly understood, and act, 
henceforward, upon this basis. You hire her to do such 
and such work for a given sum. In engaging to do this, 
she lays you under no obligation. When you pay her 
wages punctually, you confer no favor. The moment this 
principle is lost sight of, confusion begins. As employer 
you have a right to demand — always quietly and pleasantly 
— that the tasks committed to her shall be done well and 
as you direct. " My way may not be so good as yours, 
but it is mine, and I prefer it in the circumstances," is a 
dictum which, if uttered firmly and temperately, wiU bear 
down the stubborn and officious when argument would 
degenerate into altercation. Avoid this latter error as the 
most dangerous reef that underlies the domestic sea. In- 
stead of proving your authority, you attest her equahty 
when you take up the gauntlet she tosses at your feet — in 
saucy look, peevish cavil, or bolder questioning. If she 
has difficulties of her own, if the work puzzles her, or yoiur 
orders have not been explicit, be tolerant and gentle. 

But — keep your methods of. work and management above 
her criticism. 

Few young housekeepers — I might add, not many of 
age and experience — appreciate the wisdom of this rule. 



144 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Correct your mistakes without spoken comment, or ignore 
them in your subordinate's presence. A certain degree of 
breeding and mental discipline is required to enable one to 
view the blunders of another — especially when that other 
is a superior in rank — without ungenerous exultation. Of 
course, your Gibraltar is to be always right ; but since this 
does not consist with youth and human fallibility, be re- 
served as to your occasional lapses from absolute success. 

It is not possible for two mortal and sentient creatures 
to live in daily companionship without incurring mutual 
obligations. When your general hoiisework maid does 
that which is not nominated in the bond, recognize the act 
of civility as good will, and thank her for it. The cour- 
tesy may not be due to her, but it is to yourself. If she 
is rough in speech and manner, try the refining process 
of politeness upon her before correcting solecisms by 
direct admonition. I have seen marvellous results in the 
way of toning down boisterousness and sweetening asper- 
ities achieved by the force of example. It is proverbial 
how aptly the attendant "catches," as we say, the style of 
the mistress — ^her tricks of speech and action, often her 
veiy intonations. If you are stronger, better bred, and 
more steady of purpose than your " girl," this must foUow, 
should the association extend over months or years. 

Finally, if you have an honest, faithful domestic who 
tries to do her duty, think long and seriously before de- 
ciding that because she fails in one thing, and habitually, 
you must " have a change." You wiU never find one that 
suits you entirely. The probability is that you try the 
patience and temper of the present incumbent quite as 
grievously as she does your^ Eemembering this^-when 
Katy, brisk, good-tempered, and cleanly, does not get up 
John's linen to the pitch of smooth poUsh it had in his 
bachelor days, be forbearing while you try to urge her to 



CHEESE-DISHES. 145 

improvement in this line, iastead of tormenting yourself 
■with visions of coming ills you know not of. If Maggie 
cooks to perfection, irons nicely, and will nm her feet off 
to oblige you, put strong force upon your tongue, and do 
not provoke her to wrath by caustic note of the dirty 
apron she forgot to lay aside when she answered the door- 
bell and admitted a fashionable visitor ; or when she leaves 
her bed unmade and her room " in a state " until late ia 
the afternoon. Overlook EUen's sullen face v^hen you 
know, if you v?ill curb natural impatience long enough to 
reflect that her disposition is warped by dyspepsia, that 
she is a good conscientious woman, who is sincerely at- 
tached to you, and means nothing by her black silence, 
except that she is suffering. 

Give " our girl " a fair trial in everything, with an in- 
clination to the side of humanity and mercy. Should you 
be disappointed in the effect (apparent) of your wise doing 
upon her, the discipUne will not be thrown away. In water- 
ing another, you will have mellowed and enriched your 
own moral and spiritual being, will' have learned to man- 
age yourself, if not her. It is something, in this world of 
wasted powers and thwarted purposes, for one to be the 
firm and able mistress of herself. 



CHEESE-DISHES. 



Pot-Cheese. 

" Cottage cheese " is the prettier name. Heat the mUk 
which has soured on your pantry shelves until it breaks, 
and the curd, falling into a cake at the bottom of the ves- 
sel, lets the whey rise to the top. Turn all into a coarse 
muslin bag, and let it hang and drip without squeezing 
7 



146 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

until perfectly dry. Chop the curd in a wooden bowl, 
salt to your liking, and work up with milk and a little 
butter into a smooth mass. Mould into balls or cakes, 
and keep in a cool place. When ready to use it, work 
yet softer with milk, beating this in, and mould in a cold 
plate. This pot-cheese is so much nicer than the hard, 
sour balls sold in the markets and offered to summer 
boarders tmder the same name, that the wonder is that 
the one is so little known and the other tolerated. 

Cheese Pudding. 

1 cup of dry bread-crumbs, very fine. 

1 cup of grated cheese, also dry. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 
2 cups of sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of melted butter. 

Salt to taste, and a little cayenne pepper. 

A bit of soda not larger than a kidney-bean. 
Soak the crumbs and soda in the milk. Beat in another 
bowl the eggs, adding to them when light the butter, the 
crumbs, seasoning, and, when these are thoroughly mixed, 
the cheese. Beat very hard, pour into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish, and bake in a quick oven. It should be done 
in half an hour. Send in in the pudding-dish the moment 
it is ready. It wiU then be puffy, hght, and delicious — 
but five minutes' delay wiU ruin it. 

Cheese Cups. 

6 rounds of stale bread. 

■| cup of milk. 

f of a cup of dry grated cheese. 

1 beaten egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls of dry, fine crumbs. 
1 teaspoonful of butter. 

Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 



CHEESE-DISHES. 147 

Cut from six inch-thick slices of stale bread, with a 
cake-cutter or tumbler, as many crustlesa rounds, like 
large cookies. Press a smaller cutter more than half 
through each round, marking out an inner cup or circle. 
Pick out the crumb carefully from these, leaving in a 
thin bottom, and set in a moderate oven to crisp to a hght 
brown. Butter hot, and set where they wiU keep warm. 
Meanwhile, heat the mOk (not forgetting a bit of soda the 
size of a pea) in a saucepan. When it is scalding,* etii- in 
butter, seasoning, the crumbs, the cheese, and cook one 
minute before the egg goes in. Stir and beat hard ^ min- 
ute more, and take from the fire. Arrange the bread-cups 
on a warmed dish, put an equal spoonful of the mixture in 
each, and send hot to table. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Cut thin slices of bread, buttered on the loaf before 
each is cut, and spread with grated cheese, ia which has 
been worked a Httle melted butter, a very httle made mus- 
tard, cayenne pepper and salt to l ikin g. Put two together, 
buttered sides iaward, for each sandwich, if the slices are 
small If large, cut in half and fold over upon the mix- 
ture. They are very nice. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Pare the crust from slices of stale bread, toast hghtly, 
and spread with this mixture : 
1 cup grated cheese. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
-§- teaspoonful of made mustard. 
A good pinch of pepper^ 
1 egg, beaten hght. 
1 heaping tablespoonful bread-crumbs. 
Salt to taste. 



148 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Lay the toast thus covered (thicldy) upon upper grating 
of a hot oven until nicely browned. Eat very hot. 



BREAD. 



Yeast. 

6 large potatoes (new potatoes wiU not do). 

1 cup of loose, or one-third the quantity of pressed 

hops. 
4,tablespoonfuls of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of white sugar.- 
2 quarts of cold water. 

Put the potatoes, peeled and whole, into a pot containing 
the water. Tie the hops in a coarse muslin bag, or a bit of 
mosquito-netting, and boil all together until the potatoes 
drop to pieces, keeping the pot covered to prevent too 
much evaporation. lift these out with a skimmer, leav- 
ing the water on the fire, and mash them in a bowl with a 
wooden spoon or potato-pestle, working in flour and sugar 
as you go on. When you have a fine meal, begia to put in 
the water (still boiling) by the great spoonful, mixing well 
as you go on, until the hop decoction is used up. At the 
last, squeeze out all the liquid you can from the bag, so 
as to get the full strength. Let the mixture stand until 
lukewarm, when put in four or fivd tablespoonfuls of fer^ 
mented yeast, reserved from your last making, and set 
aside in a large bowl to work. 

When the whole mass is like syllabub, and the surface 
is quite stiU, it is ready to bottle. The process wiU re- 
quire five or six hours in summer, twice as long in winter. 
Fill glass or earthen jars with close tops, or bottles with 
clean tightly fitting corks, and keep in the coldest place 



BREAD. 149 

you can find — on ice, if you can. It will keep good a long 
time. 

This yeast cannot fail, if the ingredients are good and 
the directions are obeyed ; is more wholesome, surer, and 
cheaper than the dark soapsudsy stuff bought from baker 
and brewer, under that name. 

Bread Sponge. 

2«cups of warm water. 

1 tablespoonful of lard, and the same of sugar. 
4 tablespoonfuls good lively yeast. 

^ teaspoonf ul of soda. 

2 cups of flour — full ones. 

MiY together water, soda, lard, and sugar. The water 
should be just warm enough to melt the lard. If hot, it 
will spoil the yeast. Pour, little by little, on the flour, 
stirring to a smooth batter. At last, put in the yeast, 
and beat aJl hard two minutes. Set to rise in a bowl cov- 
ered with a dean cloth. It should stand in a warm place 
in winter, and in summer out of the draught, but not in a 
hot room. When light, it will be many times larger than 
the original bulk and cracked all over the top. For a 
forenoon baking it should be set overnight. 

Bread raised with Sponge. 

If you have set the quantity of sponge given above, sift, 
when ready to bake, three pints of flour into a bowl or 
tray, strew with a tablespoonful of salt, make a hoUow, 
like a crater, in the middle, pour in the risen sponge, and 
work down the flour fi-om the sides into this, until you 
have a soft mass, just stiff enough to handle. Einse out 
the sponge-bowl with a little lukewarm water and add, 
worMng in more flour if this thins it too much. 

Flour your hands and the kneading-board abundantly ; 



ISO COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

make the dough into a ball and lay it on the board ; begin 
to tnead steadily, but not so fast as to tire yourself. 
Work from you all the time, turning the dough around 
and over every few moments, until it is dry and elastic, 
but still soft. Keep this up for fifteen minutes, vrash and 
wipe dry the bowl or tray in which the sponge was set, 
flour the inside and lay in the dough made into a shapely 
ball. Sprinkle flour over the top, throw a thick cloth over 
all, and set out of, the wind to rise. This will be accom- 
pUshed in a few hours in warm weather, in winter it will 
take eight, perhaps — certainly six. 

"When it is very light and seamy on the surface, lay it 
again on the board, floured, and knead ten minutes — well. 
Divide into as many parts as you wish to have loaves, make 
these out, round or oblong, according to the shape oi your 
pans, grease the pans well with lard, put in the dough, 
cover and set in a moderately warm place to rise for the 
last time, a cloth excluding air and dust. In an hour they 
should be ready for baking. The oven should be moder- 
ate, with a steady fire. Do not put fresh coal on while the 
bread is in baking. Leave the oven-door closed fifteen 
minutes before glancing in to see how "it is getting on." 
This gives a chance for rising fairly. HaK an hour should 
bake a small loaf ; allow a proportionate time for larger. 
Test with a clean straw to judge when the bread is done. 
If it comes out dry and smooth, take out the loaves, and 
tilt on one end against a clean upright surface, to let the 
air pass freely beneath them. Cover with a Hght cloth 
until cold, then wrap up securely in bread-towels and put 
into a tin bread-box. 

' If the weather is very cold, wrap an old blanket about 
the bread-tray when you have covered it with a towel. 
Avoid the heat in summer and the risk of " taking cold " 
in winter. Study the best places for bread-rising at . all 



BREAD. 151 

seasons. A light closet adjoining the kitchen is usually 
a safe corner for this process. Should the loaves rise un- 
evenly in baking, turn them quickly and gently. 

Bread without Sponge. 

1 quart of sifted dry flour. 

2 cups of lukewarm water. 

5 tablespoonfuls of lively yeast. 
1 teaspoonful of salt — heaping. 

Sift the salted flour into a bowl, pour in yeast, then the 
warm water, work the flour by degrees into the Uquid, 
and proceed as directed in receipt for Bread raised with 
Sponge. 

It is often convenient to make bread in this manner 
when there is not time to set a sponge. Mis overnight 
if you are to bake in the morning — about ten o'clock in 
the forenoon for tea-rolls and biscuits. Knead the dough 
twenty minutes after the first and second risings. When 
it rebounds from a blow, or your fingers come up clean 
after a thrust into the heart of the kneaded ball, you may 
leave off working it. 

Graham Bread. 

2 full cups of Graham flour — unsifted. 

1 cup of white, sifted flour. 

5 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cup of warm water. 

■J cup of molasses. 

^ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the water. 
Put both kinds of flour, salted, into a bowl. Stir up 
very weU while dry. Mix molasses, soda, and warm 
water together (the water almost hot), make a hole in the 



152 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

middle of the flour, and pour first the yeast, then this mix- 
ture in. Work down the flour with a wooden spoon, 
beating hard as you go on. Add just enough Graham 
flour, if necessary, to enable you to knead the batch. 
Flour your hands and work it hard twenty minutes in the 
tray. Set to rise for eight hours ; knead then ten min- 
utes, and make into loaTes ; set near the fire for an hour, 
and bake. It will require a little longer time than white 
bread. Cover with white or brown uvprinted paper, 
should it seem likely to brown too fast. 

Light Rolls. 

1 quart of flotu' — sifted. 
■J cupf vil of yeast. 

2 cups of lukewarm water. 

1 teaspoonfiH of white sugar and same of lard. 
1 heaping teaspoonful of salt. 

Sift the flour into a tray or wooden bowl, and chop the 
shortening well into it. Make a hole in the middle and 
pour in the yeast and sugar, working it in with your 
chopper, adding the warm water gradually as it stiffens. 
When thoroughly mixed, lay by the knife, flour yoiu: 
kjieading-board, and throw the dough upon it. Dust 
your hands with flour and knead steadily, turning the 
lump frequently, for twenty minutes, or until the dough 
is elastic, springing back instantly from a smart blow of 
the fist, and your finger, if thrust into it, comes out clean. 

Put into a floured tray or pan ; cover with a clean cloth 
and set in a moderately warm place until next morning, 
the mixing having been done at bedtime. An hour and 
a half before breakfast-time, turn out the dough upon the 
board and work in the salt. Knead steadily, in doing 
this, for ten or twelve minutes. Be careful not to make 



BREAD. 153 

the dough too stiff at night, or by adding flour in the 
morning's kneading. Cut it into four pieces, and knead 
each in turn a minute, before you break from it bits for 
the rolls or biscuits. Mould these with your hands, turn- 
ing the rough edges underneath. Set closely together in 
a floured pan and set by to rise, under a cloth and in a 
■warm place. They should be light enough in from thirty 
to forty minutes. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen 
minutes, then lay a clean paper over the top to prevent 
hardAing, and quicken the heat. They should be done 
in about twenty-five .minutes from the time of going in. 
Break apart before sending to table. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

1 cup of Indian meal. 

1 cup of lye flour. 

•J cup of white flour. 

■J- cup of molasses. 

1 cup of milk. 

J teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of" soda — an even one. 
Sift soda and salt three times with flour and meal. 
Make a hole in the liiiddle, and pour in molasses and milk, 
mixed together. Work up long and well ; put into a but- 
tered mould with a close top, set in a pot of boiling water 
and cook for two hours. Eat warm. 

Quick Biscuit. 

1 quart of prepared flour (Hecker's is the best). 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of lard, or very nice beef or 

fresh pork dripping. 
1 cup of lukewarm water. 
1 cup of milk. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 



I 54 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Eub the shortening well into the flour ; add the salt, 
milk, and water. Work up rapidly, handUng as little as 
possible. , EoU out lightly. Much kneading injures the 
dough. Cut into cakes half an inch thick, arrange in a 
floured pan, and bake in a quick oven. 

Bonny Clabber Biscuit, 

1 quart of sifted flour. 

2 cups — scant — of loppered milk, 
1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, and the same of salt. 

Tou may substitute buttermilk for " clabber" if you 
prefer. 
Sift soda and salt into the flour, passing aU twice through 
the sieve to mix them thoroughly Into a hole in the 
middle of the flour put the lard, and chop up until no bits 
of it remain. Then pour in the milk, stiU using the chop- 
per, until the whole mass is a tender, clean dough, that 
leaves the blade clear. Sprinkle your kneading-board and 
rub your roUing-pin with dry flour. Turn out the dough 
upon the former, and roll quickly and lightly into a sheet 
half an inch thick. Cut into round cakes, dust a baking- 
tin lightly with flour, and lay these within it. Bake 
quickly to a nice brown. Eat hot. 

Graham Biscuit. 

3 cups of Graham flour. 
1 cup of white flour. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 cup of lukewarm water. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of brown sugar or molasses. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 



SOME WAYS OF USING STALE BREAD. 1 55 

Sift soda, salt, and cream of tartar into the flour, rubbing 
twice through the sieve, to mix all together. Chop the lai-d 
into this very thoroughly. Lastly, wet up with milk, mo- 
lasses, and water, handhng as little as possible. RoU out 
into a sheet with few, but rapid passes of the rolling-pin. 
Cut into round biscuits, and bake in a steady, quick oven. 

Eat hot, but they are also good cold. 

Toasted Crackers. 

Split Boston crackers and toast on the inside, taking 
care not to bum them. Butter each lightly as soon as it 
is done, and pUe in a heated plate. They are very nice 
with picked fish. 



SOME WAYS OF USING STALE 
BREAD. 



Water Toast. 

Cut stale bread into sUces half an inch thick and pare off 
all the crust. Nobody Mkes toast-crusts. Even Mr. F.'s 
aunt (see " Little Dorrit ") put them off upon others. 
Have a clear, smokeless fire, and close by on the range a 
pan of boiling water, in which put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter to a pint of the liquid and half a teaspoonful of salt. 
As each shce is toasted, scrape off every symptom of a 
BCOTdii or bum and dip quickly in the boiling water and 
butter. PUe neatly in a hot, deep dish ; pour the little 
water that remains when all is done on the top, and cover 
closely to keep hot. 

Buttered Toast. 

Cut all the crust from slices of stale bread half an inch 
thick. Toast quickly over a clear fire. If a bit is slightly 



IS6 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

burnt, scrape the black off at once. Burning is not toast- 
ing. Neither is toasting the slow drying and darkening 
of the slices over a dull fire. To smoke toast is to ruia it 
utterly. When done it should be a deUcate brown aU 
over. Butter each piece Ughtly as it is taken from the 
fire, and keep hot untU. all are toasted. Throw a napkia 
over the plate in sending to table. 

Cream Toast. 

Stale bread. 

1 cup of boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

White of 1 egg. 

Salt. 

Boiling water. 
Pare the crust from the bread and . toast quickly. As 
each slice is taken from the fire dip in a pan of water, 
salted, standing on the stove and kept at a hard boil aU. 
the time. PUe in a deep covered dish, and when all the 
toast is ready pour over it a sauce made of the milk and 
butter, the white of egg beaten stiff and whipped in at 
the last, just before the milk is drawn from the fire. 
Cover and let stand five minutes before it goes to table. 
This pi;pparation of toast is very delightful 

Tomato Toast. ^ 

Eun a pint of stewed ripe or canned tomatoes through 
a colander, place in a porcelain stew-pan, season with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt, and sugar to taste ; cut slices of 
bread thin, brovni on both sides, butter and lay on a plat- 
ter, and just before serving add a cup of hot milk with a 
tiny bit of soda stirred in to the stewed tomatoes, and 
pour them over the toast. 



MUFFINS, CORN BREAD, AND GRIDDLE-CAKES. 1 57 

MUFFINS, CORN BREAD, AND 
GRIDDLE-CAKES. 



Minute Muffins. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter or lard. 

1 tablespoonful of wliite sugar (powdered is best). 

1 even teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. 

2 cups of (sifted) prepared flour. 

Beat the eggs very light ; into these the sugar, then the 
lard or butter, the nulk, lastly, the salted flour. Stir 
imtU the rather stiff batter is porous and rough all 
through. Bake in greased muffin-tins. They should 
puff up to treble the height of the raw material. 

Simple as these muffins are, they deserve a high rank 
among the varieties of breakfast cakes, and are especially 
valuable because so easily and quickly made. 

Risen Muffins {English). 

1 quart of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 cups of warm water. 
-4 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 
Make a hole in the middle of the salted and sugared 
flour. Mix yeast and lukewarm water together ; pour iu 
and work the flour down by degrees with a spoon, beat- 
ing very hard when all is in. Set to rise in a covered 
bowl five or six hours, or until veijy light ; beat hard five 
minutes, and let it rise again for half an hour ; stir up 
smartly, and bake in well-greased patty-pans in the oven, 



IS8 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

or in greased rings on a griddle, turning once when the 
ring is full and the batter firm. The rings and pans 
should be but' half filled with raw batter. In the oven 
they should be done in twenty miuutes — or less ; on the 
griddle, which should be hot, in less than ten. Turn out 
upon a hot plate, split, butter, and eat hot. They are nice 
spHt and toasted when cold. 

Hominy Muffins. 

1 cup of boiled " small " hominy-^perfectly cold. 

2 eggs. 

1 large cup sour or buttermilk. 

1 tablespoonful melted lard. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 

f of a cup of flour. 

■J teaspoonful of soda. 

Rub the hominy until you have a granulated mass, add 
the salt, sugar, and lard ; beat to a cream, then the eggs 
whipped very light, the mUk, La which the soda should be 
dissolved just before it goes in, at last the flour. There 
should be just enough to hold the other ingredients to- 
gether. Beat hard, and bake quickly in warmed and 
greased pans. Eat before they fall. They are whole- 
some and delicious. 

Sally-Lunn. 

3 even cups of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 eggs, beaten thoroughly. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of soda and 2 of cream of tartar. 



MUFFINS, CORN BREAD, AND GRIDDLE-CAKES. IS9 

Sift cream of tartar, soda, salt, and sugar three times 
with the flour. Kub butter and sugar to a cream. Beat 
the eggs in a cake-bowl, add the creamed butter and 
sugaj, whip hard, put in the milk, then the flour. Beat 
one minute up from the bottom, and bake in greased 
patty-pans, or in a buttered cake-mould — one with a cyl- 
inder in the centre, if you have it. It should be done in 
half an hour. Turn the loaf out on a plate, cover with a 
napkin, and cut in slices at the table, holding the knife 
almost perpendicularly, not to crush the hot bread. 

Graham Gems. 

2 cups of warm water. 
Ifull cup of Graham flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls of yeast 
i cup of molasses. 

■J teaspoonJful of salt. 
Soda. 
Make a hole in the salted flour, stir in water mixed with 
molasses, add the yeast, beat five minutes, and set to rise 
for six hours. Then stir in a half-teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in a very httle boiling water, beat one minute, and 
bake in the quickest oven you can heat, in gem-pans 
greased and made hot before the batter goes in. 
Tear open and eat before they cool. 

Risen Corn Bread. 

2 cups of Indian meal. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar or molasses. 
2 cups of boiling water. 

4 tablespoonfuls of good yeast. 
1 tablespoonful of melted lard. 
1 scant cup of flour. 

^ teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 



l6o COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Sift salt, soda, meal, and fioiir tliree times through the 
sieve. Mix molasses (or sugar), hot water, and lard to- 
gether, and beat in the meal and flour untU thoroughly 
mixed, and little more than blood-warm. Then put in 
the yeast, stir vigorously for two minutes, and set to rise 
until light. Bake in smaU greased pans, or in one large 
shallow one, or in a cake-mould. If baked in a large loaf 
it will not be done under forty-five minutes. 

Boiled Corn Bread. 

1 pint Indian meal and half as much flour. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar or molasses. 

2 cups of buttermilk or " clabber." 
1 cup of hot water. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 tablespoonful of melted lard. 

Sift meal, flour, soda, and salt together three times. 
Stir sugar or molasses, lard, milk, and hot water together, 
and pour into the flour by degrees. Beat five minutes, 
and pour into a tight, greased mould with a top, or into a 
tin pail with a close cover, and set in a pot of hot water, 
not so full as to boil up to the top. Put an iron on the 
lid to keep it from turning over, and boU for an hoxu- and 
a half. Dip in cold water to loosen the bread from the 
sides, turn out and eat hot. 

Cheap, good, and nutritious. 

Indian Meal Sally-Lunn. 

2 cups loppered mUk or buttermilk. 

2 eggs, whipped light. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted lard. 

1 tablespoonful white Sugar. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 



MUFFINS, CORN BREAD, AND GRIDDLE-CAKES. l6l 

1 teaspoonfal salt. 

2J cups corn meal. 

^ cup of flour. 
Sift the soda and salt three times through flour and 
meal. Beat the sugar into the lard, and when this is a 
cream, whip up with the beaten eggs. Next comes the 
milk, finally flour and meal, sifted in together. Beat hard 
two minutes, and bake in a shallow pan or in small tins in 
a steady oven. Eat hot. 

Wafers. 

2 cups of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 cup of mUk, or enough to make stiff dough. 

1 teaspoonful of salt sifted with flour. 
Kub the butter into the salted flour and work up with 
the milk. EolL out hery thin, cut into rounds with a small 
tumbler, and roU these again into larger rounds as thin as 
writing-paper. lift carefully, and lay in a pan . lightly 
dusted with flour. Bake to a faint brown. 

These wafers are tedious ia the making, by reason of the 
care required to get them thin enough and symmetrical in 
shape. But they are delicately delicious when done, and 
always a treat to invalids. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

1 quart of buckwheat flour, mixed well vdth ^ cup of 
Indian and a like quantity of oatmeal, 

1 heaping teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of molasses. 

1 quart of warm water, or enough for good batter. 
4 tablespoonfuls of yeast 
Sift meal and flour together, salt, and pour into the 
"crater" in the middle the warm water and molasses. 



l62 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

then the yeast. Beat long and well, and set in a -warm 
comer to rise overnight. Beat tip well in the morning, 
and bake on a hot griddle rubbed faithfully with a bit of 
fat salt pork stuck on a fork. Turn as they bro-wn. 
Should the batter sour in rising, stir in a bit of soda no 
larger than a grain of corn, dissolved in a little boiling 
water. 

Indian Meal Cakes. 

' 3 cups of com meal. 
1 cup of flour. 

3 cups of buttermilk or loppered milk, 
1 tablespoonful of lard. 

1 cup of boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfiols of molasses, 
legg. 

1 teaspoonfol of soda, and the same of salt. 
Pour the hot water on the salted meal, mix in the lard 
and stir hard until the paste is smooth. Put the mo- 
lasses into the milk and add gradually to the wet meal, 
beating faithfully. Then the beaten egg should go in, 
lastly the flour, through which the soda has been sifted 
three times. Beat up for two whole minutes and bake on 
a well-greased griddle. They are good, even without the 
egg- 
Hominy "Griddles." 

1 large cup of small homiuy, boUed and perfectly cold. 

2 cups of sweet milk. 
1 egg, whipped Hght. 

i cup of prepared flour. 
i teaspoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of molasses. 

1 teaspoonful of melted lard or other shortening. 
Eub hom i ny, salt, and lard smooth ia a bowL Put mo- 



MUFFINS, CORN BREAD, AND GRIDDLE-CAKES. 163 

lasses and milk together and stir in gradually, then the 
beaten egg, finally the flour. "Whip one minute and bake. 

Graham Griddles. 

2 cups of Graham flour and 1 of white. 
4 cups of clabber or buttermilk. 
2 tablespoonfuls of Indian meal. 
1 teaspoonful of lard melted in ^ cup of warm water. 
1 tablespoonful of molasses. 
You can put in a beaten egg, if you like. 
Mix as directed in Indian Meal Cakes. 



Flannel Cakes 

2 cups of flour. 

1 cup of com meal 

2^ cups of sweet mUk. 

1 cup of boiling water, poured on the meal 

1 tablespoonful of lard, melted. 

1 tablespoonful of molasses. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
MiY overnight, beating very hard, and set to rise for 
breakfast-cakes. Should it thicken up too much in the 
mixing, add more warm water. 

Bread-crumb Cakes. 

2 cups of fine, dry crumbs soaked in 2 cups of scald- 
ing milk. 
2 cups of lukewarm water, 
f of a cup of prepared flour. 
1 tablespoonful of molasses. 

1 tablespoonful of melted lard. 

2 eggs, whipped light. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 



1 64 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Beat the soaked crumbs two minutes to a lumpless 
pulp ; stir in lard, molasses, and salt, add the beaten eggs, 
at last the flour. ' Grease the griddle particularly well, 
that they may not stick. They are very fair cakes with 
only one egg — excellent with two. 

Buttermilk Cakes. 

i cups of sifted flour. 

4 tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, scalded with ^ cup 

of boUing water. 
1 quart of sour buttermilk. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of soda sifted with 1 teaspoon- 

ful of salt three times through the flomr. 

2 table4)oonfuls of molasses. 

Put molasses and milk together and pour into the flour, 
by degrees,, stirring patiently and long. Beat in the 
scalded meal, whip hard three minutes, and your cakes, 
without shortening or eggs, are ready for baking. They 
win be found very good. 

Mush Cakes. 

legg- 

1 heaping cup cold of boiled mush. 

2 cups of milk. 

1 scant cup of prepared flour. 
1 tablespoonful of melted lard. 
1 tablespoonfiol of molasses. 
1 teaspoonful (scant) of salt. 

Bit of soda no larger than a grain of corn dissolved 

in the milk. 

Beat the egg very Ught, and into this the sugar, then 

the lard, salt, and, gradually, the mush. Take off the 

outer skin, and mix so weU that the result shall be a com- 



MUFFINS, CORN BREAD, AND GRIDDLE-CAKES. l6S 

pound lite a thick, smooth custard, even before the milk 
goes in. Add this, likewise by degrees, and at last the 
flour. Beat hard, a;nd bake on a griddle. H you like to 
make the batter a little thicker and bake in rings, as 
muffins, you -will find them very nice. The cakes are 
light, spongy, excellent. 

Waffles. 

4 heaping cups of flour. 

3 cups of milk and 1 of warm water. 

5 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

1 tablespoonful of melted lard, and same of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 egg. (Tou can omit this, if you choose.) 
Set the batter, leaving out one cup of flour, the egg, 
salt, and lard, overnight as a sponge. Early in the morn- 
ing add these ingredients, beat well, and let the batter 
stand one hour before baking ia waffle-irons. 

A Useful Rule. 

While it is impossible to set down absolute laws for 
mixing " a soft dough " or " a good batter," you will find 
a valuable suggestion in the rule to mis dough in the 
proportion of tioice as much flour as you have liquid, and 
in batter-making allow a like quantity of each. If there is 
a leaning toward prodigality in the measure of flour and 
economy in liquid, so much the better. But mix nieas- 
ure for measure, then modify slightly should the flour 
thicken too much. Different brands vary widely in this 
respect 



1 66 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

PUDDINGS. 



Apple Puddings. 

There is a large and most respectable family of these 
— cheap, wholesome, and generally popular. Practically 
there ia no recognized limit to the variations of which 
this ancient and honorable fruit is susceptible in the 
hands of a skilful cook. I have collected a few of the 
more economical and simple of these preparations in this 
work, and can safely recommend each of them. 

Maude's Pudding. 

2 cups of bread-crumbs — very dry and fine. 

2 cups chopped apple. 

A handful of raisins, seeded and chopped. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

f cupful of brown sugar. 

Cinnamon and nutmeg to your liking. 

Butter a pudding-dish ; strew the bottom thickly with 
crumbs. On this spread a layer of chopped apple, 
sprinkle with raisins and tiny bits of butter, spice, and 
cover with sugar. More crumbs foUow, then apple, and 
so on, until the dish is full. The top layer should be 
crumbs, and well buttered. Cover tightly, and bake until 
the apple juice bubbles through the crust and up at the 
sides, when brown on the grating of the oven. 

Send to table in the dish, and eat with butter and sugar, 
or pudding-sauce. 

This pudding costs less than an apple pie ; consumes 
one-quarter of the time in making ;■ goes twice as far in 
feeding a family ; is more digestible-r— and tastes better. 



PUDDINGS. 167 

Apple Meringue. 

2 cups hot apple sauce, very smooth and good. 

3 eggs. 

^ cup of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of corn-starch. 

1 teaspoonful of nutmeg and cinnamon mixed. 
Bitter almond flavoring. 

2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

Stew the apples unsweetened and beat out all the lumps. 
Eetum to the saucepan, sweeten and season, stir in the 
corn-starch rubbed into the butter, boU one minute, take 
from the fire and pour gradually upon the yolks of the 
eggs, whipped thick and smooth. Beat two minutes and 
turn into a buttered pudding-disL Bake fifteen miautes 
in a quick oven ; draw to the oven-door and spread rapidly 
over the surface a meringue of the whites whipped stiff 
and the powdered sugar, flavored with bitter almond. 
Shut up again and brown delicately. Eat cold, with or 
without cream. 

Tapioca Apple Pudding. 

6 apples — ripe and fair — pared and cored. 

1 cupful of tapioca. 

3 cups of cold water. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

J cupful of sugar. 

A dozen whole cloves. 
Soak the tapioca all night in the water. In the morn- 
ing, or about two hours before you wish to cook it, ar- 
range the apples ia a pudding-dish, add a very Uttle water, 
cover closely, and set in the oven until they are tender 
throughout. Fill the hole in the middle of each with 



1 68 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

sugar, put in a clove or two where the core was, and pour 
the tapioca over all. Cover again, and bake somewhat 
slowly one hour. 
Eat with milk or with sweet sauce. 



Toad-in-a-hole Pudding {English 

6 large juicy apples, cored and pared. 
J cup of sugar. 
2 cups of milk. 
2 cups of flour (prepared). 
2 eggs, beaten very light. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of laxd, chopped into invisibility in 
the flour. 

Peel and core the apples, pack in a pudding-dish and 
fill the centres with sugar. Salt the flour, chop in the 
lard, wet up gradually vrith the milk. Finally, whip in 
the beaten eggs, and stir hard one minute before pouring 
over the apples. Bake one hour in a steady oven. Eat 
hot with butter and sugar, or with sweet sauce. 

Apple Bread Pudding. 

6 fine juicy ripe apples. 

6 shoes stale bread, an inch thick. 

Grated peel of a lemon. 

1 scant teaspoonful of cianamon. 

Butter enough to spread the bread. 

f of a cup of brown sugar. 

A little hot milk. 

Pare each slice, butter on both sides, and arrange a 

layer in the bottom of a buttered puddiog-dish. Peel 

and slice the apples and cover the bread thickly with 

them, sprinkle well with sugar, sparingly with spice and 



PUDDINGS. 169 

lemon-peel, and put in a second stratum of buttered bread. 
More apple, sugar, and spice, and so on, until the materials 
are used up. The top layer should be of bread, buttered 
on the lower side, pressed into place, then soaiied in hot 
milk poured over it, before butter is spread on the upper. 
Cover closely, and bake an hour and a quarter ; uncover 
and brown lightly. 

Eat hot with sauce. 

Or, 

Tou can bake it in a dish set ia a dripping-pan of boil- 
ing water, replenishing with more from the teakettle as 
this boils away. "When the puddiag is done, turn out on 
a hot dish, and cut in slices at table. 



Apple Scallop. 

3 cups of good apple-sauce. 
Nearly a cupful of sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
Nutmeg to taste. 
1 beaten egg. 
^ cupful of fine crumbs. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch rubbed into the 
butter. 

Stir into the apple-sauce while hot the sugar, butter, 
corn-starch, and spice. Beat hard, boil up once, and let it 
get cold. If the apples are very juicy, drain off half the 
liquor before the sugar, etc., are added. Heap, when cold 
and firm, upon a buttered pie-plate, wash aU over with 
beaten egg, coat with crumbs, and bake haK an hour. 
Shp to a heated dish, or serve in the pie-plate, as most 
convenient. 

Eat hot with sauce, or milk and sugar. 
8 



I/O COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Apple Snow. 

6 apples. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Peel and grate the apples into the whites, which must 
have been whipped to a stiff froth. Beat in the sugar 
with a few light sweeps of the egg ; whip and set in a cold 
place until wanted. 

Eat with crackers or cake. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

2 heaping cups of prepared flour. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sweet, clean lard (if you can 
afford it, put 1 tablespoonful of lard and 1 of 
butter). 
1^ cup of milk (or 1 of milk, ^ of ice-cold water). 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 
Chop the shortening into the salted flour, until they are 
thoroughly incorporated. Wet up with mUk ; roU into a 
paste less than half an inch tMck,_ handUng as little as 
possible ; cut into squares about five inches across every 
way, lay in the middle of each a juicy ripe apple, peeled 
and cored, fold the corners of the paste neatly together 
and pinch hard. Put in a floured baking-pan, the seamy 
sides down, and bake to a nice brown. 
Eat hot with sauce. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings. 

Make as above, and boU in square, stout cloths, each 
dumpling being tied up in one of these, with room to 
swell. Wring out the cloths dry in boihng water, and 
flour on the inside before the apples go in. Plunge into 
boiling water and cook one hour. 



PUDDINGS. 171 

Bread Puddings. 

Pot these you will find your jar of fine crumbs accu- 
mulated from day to day excellent, and a genuine time- 
saver. It is a good plan to crumb stale bread for pud- 
dings overnight, or at least some hours before they are 
to be used. Have no bits of crusts or hard lumps in the 
mixture, and compound as carefully as you would pound- 
cake. 

Sugarless Bread Pudding. 

2 even cups of crumbs. 

Si cups of milk. 

2 eggs, beaten very light. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 
Cianamon and nutmeg to taste. 

Bit of soda the size of a kidney-bean dissolved La a 
tablespoonful of hot water. 
Beat the eggs long and hght while the crumbs are 
soaking ia the milk. Add the butter and spice to the 
crumbs, the soda, and whip to a smooth pulp, lastly, stir 
in the eggs. Beat all one minute, pour into a buttered 
pudding-disb, bake until lightly browned and well " set " 
ia the middle. 

Eat warm with sauce. It is very nice. 

Bread-and-Raisin Pudding. 

2 even cups of crumbs. 

3 cups of hot milk — full ones. 
3 eggs. 

■J cup of raisins, seeded and chopped. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

i cupful of sugar. 

i teaspoonful mixed nutmeg and cinnamon. 



1/2 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Eub butter and sugar to a cream and set aside. Mean- 
while, let the crumbs soak in the scalduig — not boiling — ■ 
milk. Beat these to a smooth paste, and spread a layer 
in a buttered pudding-dish. Strew with raisins and spice, 
and put on more of the crumb-paste. Fill the dish within 
half an inch of the top in this order ; set in the oven, cov- 
ered by a tin plate or paU-top while you whip the eggs 
very light with the creamed butter. Draw the pudding — 
just heated through — to the oven-door, pour on this mix- 
ture, cover again and bake twenty minutes, then brown. 

Eat warm without sauce. 



Boiled Bread Pudding. 

2 cups of crumbs. 

2 full cups of milk. 

3 eggs. 

^ cupful of suet, powdered and freed from strings. 
■J cup seeded and cut raisins, well dredged with flour. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of corn-starcb rubbed into the 
butter. 

Heat the milk to scalding, stir in the butter and corn- 
starch ; cook one minute, and pour upon the crumbs. 
Let them soak whUe you beat the eggs very light. This 
done, whip in the sugar, and, by degrees, the soaked 
crumbs. Cover the bottom of a buttered tin mould, with 
a tightly fitting cover (or a tin paU), with a layer of this, 
scatter suet, raisins, and spice over it, and go on in this 
order until the ingredients are used up. Fit on the top, 
set in a pot of boiling water — not so full as to overflow 
the top in cookiag — and boil an hour and a half. Dip 



PUDDINGS. 173 

the mould into cold water, and invert upon a hot dish, 
to turn it out. 
Eat hot, with or without sauce. 

Lemon Bread Pudding. 

2 cups of fine crumbs. 

3 cups of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 small cupful of sugar. 

Juice and grated peel of a lemon. 

3 eggs. 
Kub butter and sugar well together. Beat the eggs 
Ught, then the sugar and butter into these. Meantime, 
the crumbs should be soaking in the mUk. Beat aU to- 
gether faithfully before adding the lemon-juice and peel, 
turn immediately into a buttered pudding-dish and bake 
quickly before the milk has time to curdle. 
Eat warm — not hot — or cold, without sauce. 

Tapioca Pudding (Ko. 1). 

1 cup of tapioca. 

4 cups of lukewarm milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 

3 eggs. 

Nutmeg. 

Bit of soda the size of a pea in the milk. 
Soak the tapioca in the mUk four hours — ^for two of 
these at one side of the range, where it cannot get more 
than blood-warm. If it really heats before softening, it is 
ruined. Then set the vessel containiag it in one of warm 
water, and bring very slowly to a gentle simmer. Stir up 
the tapioca from the bottom often after the first hour's 
soaking. When it is thoroughly dissplved, increase the 



174 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

heat, until it is quite thick and v6ry hot. Take from the 
fire and turn upon the beaten eggs and sugar. Beat well, 
season, pour into a buttered dish and bake until a hght- 
broTm crust forms on the top. 
There is no more delightful tapioca pudding than this. 

Tapioca Pudding (No. 3). 

1 cup of tapioca. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Nutmeg. 

■J teaspoonful of salt. 

Bit of soda the size of a pea in the milk. 
Cover the tapioca with two cupfuls of cold water and 
soak three hours. Stir into the milk and soak an hour 
longer. Put into a tin pail or inner compartment of a 
farina-kettle, surround with boiling water and heat ■untU 
the tapioca is very soft. Cream butter and sugar, beat 
very Hght with the eggs, pour the tapioca over this ; stir 
up well, and bake in a buttered dish. 
Eat warm with sauce. 

Cracker Pudding, 

1 full cup of powdered cracker. 
1 cup of boiling water. 
3 cups of milk. 
3 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful — a liberal one — of butter. 
^ teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the water. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 
Scald the salted crumbs vnth the boiling water and stir 
in the butter. Let them stand while you whip the eggs 



PUDDINGS. 175 

light Mix the milk with the cracker-paste, then the eggs. 
Whip all together well, and bake in a buttered puddiag- 
dish. Eat with sauce. 

Suet Pudding (No. 1). 

1 heapiag cup of crumbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 even cupful of suet, freed from strings and pow- 
dered. 

3 cups of milk. 
3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

^ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
hot water. 

Mix as directed in last receipt, and bake about an hour. 
Eat hot, with sauce. It is nice boiled in a mould, and will 
require an hour and a half to cook. 

Suet Pudding (No. 2). 

1 cup of suet, minced to powder. 

^ cupful of raisins, seeded and chopped. 

1 cup of molasses. 

1 cup of milk. 

1^ cup of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix milk and molasses together. Sift salt and soda 
three times through the flour, then chop the suet into it 
imtil it is fairly " shortened " by it ; pour in the milk and 
molasses, mix and beat up thoroughly before adding the 
raisins dredged mth flour. Pour into a buttered mould 
or pail with a top, and boil steadily three hours. The 
water must boU when it goes in. Eat with hard sauce. 



176 , COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Marmalade Pudding. 

f of a cup of cracker-crumbs. 
i cup of sugar. 
1 full cup of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs. 

i cup of marmalade or jam. 

Cream butter and sugar, and soak the crumbs in the 
milk. Beat the eggs Hght, add creamed butter and sugar, 
finally the soaked crumbs. Put the marmalade in a but- 
tered bake-dish. It should be quite firm, so as not to float 
when the rest of the ingredients go in. Press it hard, to 
make it hold well to the bottom, and put ia the cracker 
mixture by the spoonful. Bake forty minutes, or until set 
and nicely browned. Eat cold. 



Baked Corn-starch Pudding. 

4 cups of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

3 eggs. 

^ cup of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of butter. 

Nutmeg to taste. 

1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Heat three cups of milk to scalding ; dissolve the corn- 
starch in the other cup and add, stirring and cooking un- 
til it thickens well. Stir in the butter and salt, and set 
away for several hours to get cold and stiff. Then beat 
the eggs Ught, whip in the sugar and nutmeg, and beat up 
with the corn-starch little by Kttle to a smooth batter. 
Bake half an hour in a buttered dish. Eat cold. 



PUDDINGS. 177 

Corn-starch Minute Pudding. 

1 quart of fresh milk, heated to scalding in a farina- 
kettle. Wet up with cold water 4 tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch and a teaspoonful of salt, and stir into the milk 
until it has boiled ten minutes. Add a tablespoonful of 
butter ; let the pudding stand, without boihng, in hot 
water for three minutes before turning it into an open 
dish. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of powdered sugar. 

■J- cup of boiling mUk. 

Season with nutmeg, lemon, vanilla, or bitter-almond 
essence. 
Beat whites and yolks separately, very hght, then the 
sugar into the yolks. Pour upon yolks and sugar the 
boihng milk. Set in very hot, but not boiling water, stir- 
ring now and then until just before it is wanted ; when 
beat in lightly the frothed whites, and flavor to taste. 

Graham Minute Pudding. 

1 cup of Graham flour. 

1 large cup of boiling water and same of hot milk, 
with a pinch of soda stirred in. 

Salt to taste. 
Wet up the flour with cold water, shghtly salted, and 
stir into the boiling. Cook in a double vessel, the outer 
one being full of hot water. Boil and stir fifteen minutes. 
Add the milk gradually, beating out lumps, and cook after 
the boil begins again ten minutes longer. Turn out into 
a deep, open dish, and eat with powdered sugar and milk, 
or with butter and sugar. 



178 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Rice Hasty Pudding. 

1 cup of raw rice. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 egg. 

A little salt. 
Boil the rice soft in salted water, breaking as little as 
possible. It should be almost dry, but not hard, or 
"pasty." Heat the milk in another vessel to scalding, 
stir in the egg, beaten Hght ; cook one minute, and mix up 
well with the rice just before removing the latter from 
the fire. 

Baked Rice Pudding. 

^ cup of raw rice. 

4 cups of mUk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

■J- teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, melted. 

Mace and cinnamon to taste. 
Soak the washed rice in the mUk two hours, stir in but- 
ter, spice, sugar, and salt, and bake in a moderate oven 
more than an hour, until nicely browned on top, and like 
custard throughout. Eat very cold. 

Tapioca Rice Pudding. 

Make precisely as above, but soak equal quantities of 
rice and tapioca three hours — then cook as directed. 

Rice Custard Pudding. 

1 cup of boiled warm rice, well drained. 
3 cups of milk. 



PUDDINGS. 179 

2 teaspoonfuls of butter. 

1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Nutmeg to taste. 
Cream butter and sugar and add to the beaten eggs, 
then the milk, lastly the rice. Beat thoroughly and bake 
half an hour, or until set and browned. Eat warm (not 
hot) or cold, as you prefer. 

Batter Pudding. 

2 full cups of flour (prepared). 

2 cups of milk. 

3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt (scant). 
Bit of soda the size of a pea. 
Sift soda and salt three times through the flour. Beat 
the yoUis of the eggs until thick and smooth, add to the 
TnilV, stir in the flour, beat one minute steadily ; stir in the 
whipped whites quickly, and bake in a buttered pudding- 
dish in a brisk oven. Serve in the bake-dish before it has 
time to faU. Eat very hot, with sauce. 

V Cottage Pudding. 

2 eggs. 

1 scant cup of sugar. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 full cups of prepared flour. 
J teaspoonful of salt. 

Gream butter and sugar. * Beat the yolks smooth, and 
whip in the buttered sugar, then the milk, salt, and the 
whites — whipped to a froth ; at last, and lightly, the flour. 
Bake in a buttered cake-mould untU a straw comes up 
clean from the thickest part, turn out upon a plate, and 



l8o COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

send in hot. Cut in slices in helping, and pour sweet 
sauce over each piece. 

This is the most elegant pudding — for one so simple 
and iaexpensive — in this collection, and has the added 
virtue of always "coming out right." If you use plain 
flour, stir in a half-teaspopnful of soda and twice as much 
cream of tartar, or a heaping teaspoonful of Eoyal Baking 
Powder, and sift all three times. 

Lemon Pudding. 

3 eggs. 

1 scant cup of sugar. 

2 hberal tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

1 lemon, juice and rind. 

2 cups of milk. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of butter. 
Scald the milk and stir in the corn-starch wet up ia 
four tablespoonfuls of cold water. Cook — stirring all the 
time — until it thickens well ; add the butter, and set aside 
untU perfectly cold. Then beat the eggs light, add the 
sugar, the lemon, juice and grated peel, and whip in, a 
great spoonful at a time, the stiffened corn-starch' miUr. 
Bake ia a buttered dish, and eat cold. 

Macaroni Pudding {plmn). 

1 cup of macaroni, broken into short pieces of uni- 
form length. 
3 cups of mOk, with a tiny bit of soda stirred in. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
•^ teaspoonful of salt. 
Boil the macaroni twenty minutes in plenty of slightly 
salted water. Have ready the mUk scalded in another 
vessel, stir in salt, soda, and butter ; (Jrain the macaroni 



PUDDINGS. l8l 

in a colander and drop into the hot milk. Simmer in a 
saucepan or pail set in boiling water ten minutes, covered ; 
turn out, and eat with butter and sugar. 
It will be found very good. 

Baked Macaroni Pudding. 

1 cup of macaroni, broken into inch lengths. 

2 eggs. 

3 full cups of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

■J- cup of sugar. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Nutmeg and cinnamon mixed, ^ teaspoonful. 
Boil the macaroni twenty minutes in salted hot water. 
Drain and put into the milk, which should stand ready, 
scalding hot and salted, in another vessel ; cover and leave 
in hot water whUe you cream butter and sugar, and beat 
the eggs very Ught. Turn the macaroni and milk into a 
bowl, stir in creamed butter and sugar, then the eggs and 
spice. Mis well, but not hard enough to break the maca- 
roni, and bake in a buttered pudding-dish until browned. 
Eat warm, without sauce. 

Berry Pudding. 

1 pint of flour. 

1 saltspoonful of salt 

legg. 

1 cup of milk. 

^ teaspoonful of soda, sifted twice with the flour. 
3 full tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

2 cups of huckleberries, blackberries or " black-caps," 

or the same quantity of cherries (stoned), well 
dredged with flour. 



1 82 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Beat the egg ligtt, add the milk and salt, then the 
yeast, and pour into a hole in the middle of the flour. 
Beat to a good batter and stir in the dredged berries. Set 
to rise until light in a buttered dish, and bake in the same, 
or boil in a well-greased mould or tin paU with a close top, 
set in a pot of boiling water. It will bake in forty minutes, 
boil in double the time. (It should be light in four or five 
hours, if set to rise in a tolerably warm corner. ) 

Serve in the dish if baked, turn out if boiled. Eat at 
once, with sweet sauce. 

You may omit the egg, yet have an excellent pudding. 

Roley-po!ey Pudding. 

Make a paste as for apple dumplings (see page 170) ; roll 
out evenly into a sheet twice as long as wide and spread 
with fruit — sliced apples, or peaches, or berries, or cher- 
ries ; sprinkle with sugar lightly, and roU up closely into 
a short, compact cylinder. Sew a stout cotton or linen 
cloth about it, leaving room for swelling, and "felting" 
the seams at side and . ends to keep out the water. The 
cloth should be floured on the inside before the roley- 
poley goes in. Plunge into a pot of boiling water, and 
keep at a steady bubble one hour and a half. 

Turn out and eat hot, with sauce. 

Corn Meal Pudding. 

2 cups of milk. 

2 cups of boiling water. 

2 even cups of Indian meal. 

2 eggs. 

^ cuj) of suet, powdered. 

3 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar or molasses. 
■J teaspoonf ul of salt. 

^ teaspoonful of ginger, and same of mace. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 183 

Scald the meal, salted, in the water ; stir in the suet 
while hot, and let it get perfectly cold. Then beat the 
eggs light, put in the sugar and spice and stir to a cream, 
before adding the mUk, at the last the com meal paste. 
Beat aU hard and faithfully, and bake in a buttered dish 
an hour, or boU two hours in a floured cloth or buttered 
mould, leaving plenty of room for swelling. 

Corn Meal Hasty Pudding. 

1 cupful of Indian meal, a teaspoonful of salt stirred 

in. 
1 quart of boiling water and 1 cup of cold. 
Put the water over the fire, and when it boUs hard stir 
in the meal, wet up with the cold water. Cook half an 
hour at least, stirring often. Serve in an open bowl or 
deep dish. 

Eat with butter and sugar, or with nulk and sugar.. 

Fried Hasty Pudding. 

Set com meal hasty pudding made as above ia small 
patty-pans, to get cold and firm. Next day, roll these 
over and over in dry meal and fry in hot lard or nice drip- 
ping. Eat hot, with sugar or syrup. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Hard Sauce. 



1 cup of powdered sugar. 
1 good tablespoonful of butter. 
Nutmeg or cinnamon, about ^ teaspoonful. 
Warm the butter slightly and cream with the sugar. 



1 84 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Season, beat hard for three minutes, and mound or shape 
into a "pat" on a plate. Set in a cold place to get firm. 



Liquid Sauce. 

1 large spoonful of butter. 

1 cupful brown sugar. 

■^ cupful of boiling water. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of com-starcL 

Nutmeg or mace to taste. 

Eub the butter in the sugar and moisten with a little 
boiling water until you can whip it to a cream. Beat 
very light ; add the rest of the water and heat to a brisk 
boil, stirring all the" while. Put in the corn-starch wet 
with cold water and stir smooth. Season and set in hot 
water until needed. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Make as you do hard sauce, but, instead of spice, beat 
in the juice and half the rind of a lemon. 

Jelly Sauce. 

3 good teaspoonfuls of currant or other froit jelly. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

1 cup of boiling water. 

1 teaspoonful of flour. , 

Set the water over the fire, stir in the flour wet up in a 
Kttle cold water, cook two minutes, and add the rest of 
the ingredients, BoU up well, and set in hot water until 
needed. 



3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1 teaspoonful of butter, 
legg. 
Nutmeg. 

Heat the milk and stir in the butter creamed with the 
sugar. Season ; pour over the beaten egg, whip up well, 
return to the saucepan, and. stir until it begins to thicken 
well. Serve hot. It is nice for corn-starch hasty pudding. 



FAMILIAE TALK 



'KITGHENLY KIND. ' 



Let the phrase stand. If there were more of the active 
virtue of which it is the clumsy representative, a better- 
horn and more euphonious term would long since have 
been invented to express it. 

Yet there are sections of our country where the grace of 
kitchen-neighborHness has been understood and practised 
from time immemorial. In that lively Httle book, " The 
Colonel's Opera Cloak," we have an illustration of it that is 
■ pathetic in its ludicrousness. The decayed Southern gen- 
tlepeople send a breakfast of com pone and fried bacon 
to their Northern benefactors, whose intense amusement 
in the receipt of the imtempting offering is the best proof 
of the non-existence of Uke customs in their latitude. In 
this region we have suffered the genius of machinery to 
invade our hearts and our home-habits, as well as our 
workshops and kitchens. We keep a debit and credit 
account of calls with our nearest neighbors, and discharge 
social debts by giving wholesale " crushes " payable semi- 
annually. We no loliger "run" or "drop in" upon one 
another as leisure permits and inclination prompts. We 
entertain in due form and at stated seasons.' At Homes 
and Receptions are announced to let our world know that 



" KITCHENLY KIND." 187 

in the matter of hospitality we have not suspended pay- 
ment-. 

The principle has struck root ia cottage as in mansion. 
It was not from the latter that the enfant terrible took the 
invitation to a neighbor to " come in for a sociable cup of 
tea " on a certain evening. 

" Did your mother say at what hour she would expect 
us ? " asked the bidden guest. 

" No, ma'am ! She only told father that she would ask 
you, and get the bother off her mind." 

To borrow a saying of a former generation — the latch- 
string no longer hangs outside of the door. Sometimes 
the bolt is shot on the inside. 

I shall never lose the memory of an experience that 
taught me this ia one sharp lesson. One afternoon ia early 
spring I alighted at the door of a city friend, after a drive 
of twenty miles over rough,^ dusty roads. I was not strong ; 
the day was unseasonably sultry. My head ached, and with 
my parched throat craved a cup of tea as importunately as 
the Lanesboro' "thirsty pilgrim" "some cooUng stream at 
hand." My escort had an engagement to lecture down 
town, and drove ofEj leaving me upon the steps of the dwell- 
ing where we expected to pass the night. We had been in- 
vited repeatedly to " make this our home " on such occar- 
sions, and had every reason to believe that we would give 
oflfence if we went elsewhere. The house was deHciously 
cool, the easy-chair set for me by my hostess luxurious. 
The family were going to the lecture in half an hour, and 
a minute's talk brought out the fact that my note heralding 
our visit had not been received. I was pressed to wash 
off the dust of my drive, and at my request a glass of 
water was brought. Then the ladies assumed hats and 
gloves, and I put on mine again. Not a hint of tea, nor 
so much as a crust or cracker was tendered to the hungry 



1 88 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

guest who, they knew, could have had no refreshment 
since an early luncheon. 

I was faint, exhausted, intolerant. A factitious energy 
possessed me when sweetly reminded that "we must be 
going, if we would be in time at the BfeU." In passing 
through the entry, I picked up the sac de nuit I had set 
down there when I came in. 

" I shall not take this car," I said, civilly, as my com- 
panions signalled one at the comer. " May I trouble you 

to see Dr. after the lecture,- and tell him he wiU find 

me at Mrs. 's ? Good-evening ! " 

I bore myself bravely, but a hot band tightened steadily 
about my throat as, after a ride of fifteen minutes in an- 
other car, I was set down at a second but not handsomer 
hotise. The mistress of the house saw me from the parlor- 
window, and met me in the haU. 

" This is very good of you ! " she said. 

Were ever words more apt and welcome ? I, and not 
she, was the giver of the benefit. 

" Very good and kind ! " she contiaued, leading me on- 
ward to the quiet library. She untied my hat, and forced 
me gently to lie down on the lounge. " By-and-by you 
shall go to your room. Just now you are too tired to 
mount the stairs. A cup of tea is the first thing. Lie 
still and rest while I order it." 

She was absent ten minutes — a blessed interval that 
gave me time to. dry the foolish drops welling up with the 
sudden loosening of the strangUng throat-latch. Then 
with her own hands she set on a stand beside me the 
longed-for beverage, a servant follovsdng with more sub- 
stantial refreshment, and a dessert of strawberries and 
cream. 

The true and loving woman who thus received her who 
was ready to faint by inhospitable ways, will smile no more 



" KITCHEN LY KIND." 1 89 

into my grateful eyes on earth. I hope — I believe that the 
angels met her at heaven's door as she met me, and feasted 
her on fruits of paradise. 

I cherish no resentment agaiast her to v^hom I first went. 
She was a notable housekeeper, a disciple of system and 
punctuality. She had not counted my visit among the 
possible events of the day. The fireless order of her 
kitchen must not be disarranged for so slight an occasion 
as the comiug of a belated and thirsty guest. The princi- 
ple is as old as the Christian era. "Trouble me not! 
The door is now shut, and my children are, vrith me, in 
bed. I cannot rise and give thee," said he of whom the 
neighbor would borrow three loaves. 

The hospitality of the drawing-room, always in array for 
company, and that of the Mtchen^the warm, pulsing 
heart of the home — are very dissimilar virtues. In no way 
can neighborly good-will testify of itself more truthfully 
than in the informal interchange of the products of the 
culinary care and sldll. of those who think kindly and often 
of each other. What housekeeper does not weary into 
appetiteless disgust of an unbroken series of dishes ordered, 
and often cooked by herself ? Whose wan face does not 
brighten at the imexpected cover sent in at breakfast, 
dinner, or tea-time " with love " from the friend across the 
way? It may be only a plate of biscuits, just dravm from 
the oven, differing in nothing except the grace of sending 
from those on your ovm table, or a bowl of soup exqui- 
sitely seasoned by the good-vriU that brought it over to 
you, or a saucer of pudding with the dainty flavor of un- 
accustomedness commending it to eye and palate. Home- 
lier fare than your daily food is manna to your jaded taste 
in such circumstances. 

"I tried it once with my pastor's wife," said a lady to 
me, the other day. " I sent her a chicken-pie at Thanks- 



igo COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

giying, and she did not understand it at all. Slie hoped— 
so she told a friend who told me — that I did not imagine 
they were too poor to buy chickens for themselves." 

" Poor pastor's wife ! " commented L " That suspicion 
was the fruit of a neglected neighborly education." 

Each of us owes it to her friends, to herself, and to 
humanity, to do aU in her power to bring her kitchen into 
familiar communication and harmony with those to the 
right and left of her. Minute dots of pleasantness such 
offices may be, but the succession weaves patterns of 
beauty and brightness into a web that is apt to be tire- 
somely monotonous and often sad-colored. 

Of neighborly duties to invalids, I would fain hope that 
I might take up Paul's words and say, " Ye need not that 
I should write unto you." I could tell, did time and space 
permit, many stories commemorative of tender fidelity, 
long-continued, to the sick and suffering of other house- 
holds than those with which the ministrants were con- 
nected by ties of blood and law. Of a consumptive girl, 
fed from day to day and month to month by the thought-, 
taking of one wno, on beiog thanked by the weeping 
mother when the need of such care had ceased, said simply, 
" Did I send something every day ? I can hardly beUeve 
it. I merely took some trifle from our own table when I 
fancied the dear child might be longing for a change of 
diet. It is a part of invalidism to have fancies, you know." 

Of another — a wife and housekeeper — who during an 
illness and convalescence that lasted three months, ate 
literally' nothing that was not sent in by neighbors who 
remembered her in deeds as in prayers. This is — with 
reverence we say it — a form of Christ-hkeness to which 
she that ocoupieth the room of the unlearned may attain 
by the exercise of such gifts as are already hers. 

We are in danger of looking too far for opportunities of 



STEWED AND BAKED FRUITS. I91 

doing good and communicating. In reaching for rhodo- 
dendrons we trample down the daisies. 



STEWED AND BAKED FRUITS. 



Baked Apples. 

Pare and core ripe juicy apples, and pack in a pudding- 
dish. FiU the holes left by the cores with sugar, and put 
a clove in each. Pour in a cupful of cold water, cover 
closely, and bake until the apples are tender and clear. 
Do not take the cover from the dish before the apples are 
perfectly cold. 

Stewed Apples. 

Prepare as above, but pack in a tin pail with a tight 
cover, putting vnth them a cupful of cold water, and set 
in a vessel of water also cold. Bring to a boU, and keep 
this up for an hour. Peep iu to see if the apples are ten- 
der. If not, put on the top again and cook longer. 
When done, set the vessel — still closed — in very cold water, 
and do not open for some houra They will be very de- 
UghtfuL 

Baked Sweet Apples. 

The New Jersey Campfields, poimd sweets, and reaUy 
sound, sweet harvest apples are best for this purpose. 

Cut out the blossom-end and dig well down toward the 
core with a penknife, to make sure there are not worms in 
them. Wash, but do not peel them, fill a large bake-dish 
or pan with them, pour in about two inches of cold water ; 
cover as closely as possible and bake tender. Take up 
the apples and pack in a bowl. Cover with a plate and 



192 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

set in hot water, to keep warm. Add half a cupful of 
brown sugar (for a dozen apples) to the juice, put into a 
saucepan, boil fast fifteen minutes, strain through a cloth 
over the apples, and cover until nest day. Eat without 
or vdth sugar and cream. 

You may leave out the sugar altogether, straining the 
clear liquid over the fruit. In this case, sugar and eat 
with milt, if you cannot get cream. You will not soon tire 
of this healthful and delicious dish. 

Baked Sweet Pears. 

May be cooked in the same way. 

Stewed Pears. 

If large, cut in half ; if small, gouge out the blossom- 
end. Do not peel them. Cover with cold water in a 
saucepan, and stew until a straw will penetrate them ; now 
put in a tablespoonful of sugar for every three large pears, 
and for every dozen a half-teaspoonful of ginger. Cover 
and simmer ten minutes ; take up the fruit, pack ia a cov- 
ered bowl and set in hot water, while you boil the syrup 
for half an hour. Strain over the pears and set aside, 
closely covered, until next day. 

You may substitute molasses for sugar, if you like. 

Stewed Quinces. 

Prepare as you would pears, leaving out the ginger. 
Either peel the fruit or rub hard with a coarse cloth. 
Quarter, and take out the seeds. Save these and add to 
the syrup when the fruit has been taken out. Boil forty- 
five minutes and strain — pressing hard — over the quinces. 
Cover for eight or ten hours. 



STEWED DRIED FRUITS. 193 

Stewed Cherries. 

Pack in a "bean-jar,"' or ■wide-mouthed stone crock, 
strewing each layer of a cupful with two tablespoonf ula of 
sugar. "When aU are ia, set covered in a pot of cold water, 
apd cook slowly but steadily three hours after \h.& water 
begins to boiL Drain off the juice, put the fruit into air- 
tight jars, cover and set in hot water, while you boil the 
syrup half an hour hard. FOl up the jars very full, and 
screw on the tops immediately. 

Fruit thus put up is good to eat on the second day, 
but wiU keep aU winter, and not only costs less but tastes 
better than sweeter preserves. 

Stewed Plums and Berries. 

Put up in like manner as the above. 



STEV^T'ED DRIED FRUITS. 



Peaches. 

Wash with great care ia cold water, then soak for one 
hour ia the water in which they are to be cooked. At the 
end of that time put them over the fire, covering the sauce- 
pan closely, and bring to a gentle simmer. Keep this up 
for half an hour, or until the peaches are very tender, al- 
most like jelly. Transfer, with care not to break them, to 
a bowl or deep dish, and sweeten liberally while hot. 
Cover, and set where they wiU cool speedily. 

Dried fruit heated in this manner is better worth eating 
than cheap canned peaches, pears, and the like. If dried 
apples are ever good, it is when prepared thus, and spiced 
with mace and allspice. Peaches are really palatable 
cooked as above. Pears and cherries ditto. 
9 



194 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Stewed Rhubarb or Pie-Plant. 

Scrape tlie stalks well and cut into inch lengths. Put a 
layer in a tin saucepan or pail, sprinkle with a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, cover with rhubarb, this with more sugar, 
and so on until all the materials are in. Put on the lid, 
set in cold water and bring to a boil. Cook haK an hour 
after the boil begins, or until there is a plentiful supply of 
juice in the pail ; set on the stove, take the top from the 
saucepan and stew until the rhubarb is very tender. A 
few raisins, scattered among the stalks and stewed with 
them, improve the flavor. Eat cold. 



JAMS AND MARMALADES. 



Berry Jams. 

Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to eveiy 
pound of fruit. After weighing, put the fruit on the 
stove in a preserve-kettle, mash well with a wooden spoon 
and heat rather rapidly — not, however, allowing the fire 
to come directly in contact with the kettle-bottom, for fear 
of scorching. Stir up often and well from the depths. 
When the berries have boiled half an hour, dip out all the 
juice you can extract with skimmer and ladle. You can 
make berry cordial or vinegar with it, or fruit jelly. .Add 
the sugar, and in five minutes you woidd scarcely miss 
the juice you have taken out. Cook twenty minutes rap- 
idly, and put boiling hot into jars. . Dip each jar before 
filling it in hot water and set on a folded^ wet towel, and 
the scalding jam will not break it. Jam put up in this 
way will keep for years, and is much nicer than if aU the 
juice be left in. 



JAMS AND MARMALADES. 1 95 

Bed Raspberry Jam is particularly good if a gill of cui-- 
rant-juice be added to every three pounds of fruit. Tliis 
goes in with the sugar after the raspberi-y-juice is dipped 
out. 

Gooseberries must be topped and taUed, and boUed one 
hour before the sugar is added, one hour afterward. 
They should be ripe when put up. 

Strawberries are very much improved by currant-juice. 
In some sections of our country the seasons of the two 
fruits overlap. If currants cannot be obtained, put the 
juice of a lemon to every two pounds of fruit, after the 
berries ai"e stewed and the juice dipped out. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Pare and chop the fruit. Crack a dozen of the peach- 
pits for every three pounds of peaches, and shave with a 
knife into the kettle with the fruit, which should be put 
over the fire the moment it is chopped. It darkens with 
standing. Cook half an hour ; dip out the juice and put 
in three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of 
peaches. Boil fast half an hour, and seal up in air-tight 
jars. 

Unless they are very ripe, it is a good plan to rub the 
stewed peaches through a colander, after taking out the 
juice and before addiag the sugar. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Pare, core, and chop, then treat as above. Use tart, 
juicy fruit for this purpose. Add a very Uttle water to 
the raw apples, and heat slowly until the juice flows. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Pare and core, then chop quite fine. Add a very little 
water to prevent burning before the quinces soften and 
break. Proceed then as vrith peach marmalade. 



19^ COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Set by the juice taken from the kettle until it is cold ; 
put in the parings and cores, which should be carefully 
saved for this purpose, cook half an hour ; strain hard 
through coarse, stout cloth, and you have an excellent 
basis for quince jelly. 



FRUIT JELLIES. 



Currant Jelly. 

Put the fruit, freed from stems and leaves, over the fire 
in a stone jar set in cold water, and covered closely. BoU 
until the fruit is broken and soft, and, when convenient, 
leave in the water aU night to cooL Strain— putting in a 
little at a time — through a strong, coarse bag, pressing 
and wringing until nothing but seeds and skins remain in 
the cloth. Empty this carefully between each " squeeze " 
and the replenishment of the bag, and wash out often in 
warm water. Measure and put on the stove in a preserve- 
kettle, bring rapidly to a boil, stirring frequently, and 
- cook twenty minutes from the time the boil really sets in. 

Meantime, weigh the sugar, allowing a pound for every 
pint of juice, turn it, drj-, into a clean dripping-pan or 
other shallow vessel, and set in the oven to heat. Stir 
now and then to prevent burning. When the juice has 
fulfilled its time of boiling, take off the scum from the 
top, " dump " in the hot sugar, stir until it is dissolved, boil 
one minute and take off the "kettle. Have your jeUy- 
glasses aU ready, roll each in hot water, and fill while wet 
inside and out. When the jelly is firm, press tissue-paper 
closely on the top, working out all the air from beneath, 
and paste stout papers over the glasses. Should mould 
form on the tissue-papers it wiH not injure the taste of 



PICKLES. 197 

the jelly. Indeed, it -will help to exclude the air, and 
when the papers ai-e removed, the surface of the jelly will 
appear bright and clear. A teaspoonful of brandy on the 
tissue-paper is said to assist in preserving the jelly. 

Blackberry and Raspberry Jelly 

Are made in the same way as currant, but may have to 
be set in uncovered glasses in the sun for a day or two, to 
form well. Each glassful will shrink perceptibly in the 
process. Fill up one from another as the shrinkage 
goes on. 

Quince and Crab-Apple Jelly. 

Cut up small, without peeling or coring, and treat as 
you would berries, leaving the fruit overnight in the cov- 
ered inner jar to cool gradually with the water in the 
outer vessel. Squeeze out aU the juice — not the coarser 
pulp — measure and heat as already directed. 

Crape Jelly. 

ke as you do currant. Wild, or "fox-grapes" are 
especially flavorous for this purpose, and may be had for 
the gathering. They should be perfectly ripe. 



PICKLES. 



Green, or Tart Pickles. 

These include cucumbers, mangoes, gherkins, onions, 
young beans, nasturtium-seed (an excellent substitute 
for capers), etc., and are put up, with trifling variations, 
in one and the same way. 

Wash, pick over carefully to select those that are sound 



198 COTTAGE KIT-CHEN. 

and firm, pack in a stone jar and cover well with strong 
brine. A scant pint of salt to a gallon of cold water is a 
good rule in mixing this. Stir until the salt is dissolved. 
Leave in this four days, pour off the brine and examine 
the pickles well, rejecting those that have soft spots in 
them. Wash in cold wate» and return to the cleansed 
jar. Drown deep in very cold water, and soak in this 
twenty-four hours. Wash again, put into a preserving- 
kettle and cover with water in which has dissolved a scant 
tablespoonful of alum for every quart. If you are pick- 
Ung cucumbers, tiny mangoes (muskmelons), gherkins, 
beans, or anything else you would have green, line the 
kettle with grape-leaves, put layers of the same between 
the cucumbers, etc., and cover the top thickly with them. 
Fit a lid on the kettle when you have poured in the alum- 
water, and heat slowly until you cannot bear your hand 
in the liquid, but not untU it boUs, if you would have the 
pickles plTimp and crisp. Remove the kettle from the 
fire, without uncovering, and let the contents cool gradu- 
ally. To insure this, throw a thick cloth over lid, kettle, 
and aU, and leave it four or five hours, until the pickles 
are a little more than blood-warm. Take them out, a few 
at a time, and drop into a large vessel of very cold — ice- 
water, if you have it. Let them freshen and grow firm in 
this all night. Next day, prepare the vinegar in the fol- 
lovdng proportions : 

1 gallon of vinegar (cider vinegar and very sharp). 

3 dozen whole black peppers, as many cloves. 
1 dozen allspice. 

1 dozen blades of mace. 

4 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. 

Boil ten minutes, covered, while you drain and wipe^ 
the pickles. W^ien all are ready, and also the vinegar. 



PICKLES. 199 

throw in the pickles, and let them get scalding hot. They 
must on no account be allowed to boU. Have a jar heated, 
that it may not crack at contact with the hot liquid ; pour 
in the pickles, cover closely, and set away. 

In three days drain off and scald the vinegar, pour back 
into the jar, and cover tightly. Repeat this once a week, 
for a month, the last time adding another tablespoonful 
of sugar for every gallon of vinegar. Keep in a dry, cool 
place. Should the vinegar shrink ia re-heating add more, 
properly seasoned. 

In soaking the pickles in brine and in fresh water, lay 
a clean round board or a stout plate on top, with a light 
weight on it, to keep them covered by the liquid. 

Pickled Walnuts or Butternuts. 

These must be gathered young. If a needle or pia 
cannot pierce them easily they are too old for pickling. 
Soak in brine prepared as for green pickles, a week. 
Drain, wipe, and "jab " a stout needle— a No. 1 — through 
each, cover with cold water and leave overnight. Then 
drain, wipe, and plunge into hot spiced vinegar, such as 
I have directed for green pickles. BoU five minutes, and 
repeat this process twice a week for a fortnight, adding 
sugar the last time. They wOl be " ripe" and fit for use 
in a month, but improve with keeping. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 

1 gallon green tomatoes. 
6 onions. 

1 quart of cider vinegar. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful each of ground mustard, black pepper 

and salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls eacla of allspice and cloves (ground). 



200 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Slice the tomatoes witliout peeling ; peel and chop or 
slice the onions very thin. Put a layer of tomatoes into 
a preserve-kettle, sprinkle -with onion, sugar, and spices ; 
more tomatoes, etc., until all are in. Heat slowly and 
stew gently about forty-five minutes after they begin to 
boU. Put up in small jars, as it does not keep well after 
it is opened. 

A most deUcious pickle, and a useful sauce for meat and 
fish. 

Sweet Pickles 

Are a pleasant medium between sour pickles and pre- 
serves, rather more expensive than the former, and uni- 
versally popular. / 

Pickled Plums. 

Choose those which are ripe but not soft, pick them 
over, rejecting the specked and unsovind, wash, and prick 
each three or four times with a large needle. For every 
four pounds of fruit weigh out two pounds of sugar, and 
pack in the kettle in alternate layers. Heat slowly, keeping 
the kettle covered. Prepare the vinegar by allowing a large 
coffee-cupful of vinegar to four pounds of fruit, a dozen 
blades of mace, two sticks of cinnamon as long as your 
finger, broken into short bits, and one dozen whole cloves. 
When the fruit fairly boils all over, stir gently, put in the 
spiced vinegar, boil three minutes, take out the plums 
with a spUt or pierced skimmer and lay on broad pans or 
dishes to cool. As the syrup exudes from them return to 
the kettle with the rest. When no more runs, pack the 
fruit tenderly in jars, boil the syrup hard for forty-five 
minutes, and fill up the jars. Seal tightly. Should they 
show signs of working, within a few Tveeks, drain off the 
vinegar into a kettle, bring to a boil, drop in the plums, 
heat five minutes, and return to the glasses. 



PICKLES. 20I 



Pickled Peaches 



May be put up as axe plums, except that they are first 
pared carefully. 

Or, 

To every i pounds of fruit (peeled), allow If pound of 
sugar, and rather less than 2 cups of vinegar, 12 blades of 
mace, and 6 inch-lengths of stick cinnamon. 

Put into a bowl the peaches in alternate layers with the 
sugar, cover and leave them two hours. Then drain off 
all the juice that wiU drip from them through a colander, 
and stir in a kettle over the fire until the sugar melts. 
Let it boU up once sharply and skim thoroughly. Drop 
in the fruit, boU five minutes gently, take up the peaches 
with a split spoon or perforated ladle, draining each 
patiently, and pack in jars. As the Hquid coUeots in the 
bottom of these, drain back into the kettle. Add the 
spiced vinegar to the syrup, boil hard half an hour. The 
jar-covers should be on all this while to keep in the steam. 
Wheu the syrup is ready, fill up the jars with it boiling 
hot and seal 



How to Use the Surplus Syrup. 

There is always a surplus if the peaches are juicy — as 
Bridget Mahony says of the sugar, flour, and butter or- 
dered by her mistress from the grocer — " more nor will go 
convayniently intil the jars." Strain this through a cloth, 
boil ten minutes, and seal up hot in jars for pudding- 
syrup. It needs only to be heated to be ready for table- 
use, and is very good, 
9* 



203 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Pickled Cabbage. 

1 white, firm cabbage, chopped. 

6 onions, medium-sized, chopped. 

1 pint of vinegar. 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful each of ground mustard, black pepper, 

cinnamon, turmeric, mace, allspice, and the same 

of celery-seed. 
Salt. 

Pack the cabbage alternately with the onion in a jar, 
sprinkling them with salt, and leave overnight. Next 
day, scald vinegar and spices and put in cabbage and 
onions. BoU gently half an hour, and put up. It is fit 
for use in twenty-four hours. 

Blackberry or Raspberry Vinegar. 

3 quarts of berry-juice. 
1 quart of cider vinegar. 

4 cups of sugar. 

Put sugar and juice together over the fire ; bring quick- 
ly to a boil, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Boil 
hard half an hour, add the vinegar, boU up once, skim 
well and strain into bottles, rolled in hot water. Cork 
tightly and seal vrith sealing-wax, or dip the head of each 
corked bottle into a mixture of three parts beeswax, one 
part resin. Lay the bottles on their sides in a cool, dark 
place. This is a healthful and refreshing beverage when 
mixed with two-thirds water. 



CAKES. 203 

CAKES. 



Cream Short Cake, 

2 cups of prepared flour. 

1 tablespoonful lard and as much butter. 
■J cup milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls wHte sugar. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Rub the shortening into the salted flour, and wet up 
■with the mUk in which has been dissolved the sugar. 
EoU out half an inch thick and bake in two jelly-cake tins. 
The dough should be soft and handled very little. Bake 
to a nice brown, and when cold lay between the cakes the 
foUowiag mixture : 

^ cup of mUk. 

1 even teaspoonful of com-starcL 
legg. 

■J- teaspoonful vanilla or other essence. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Heat the mUk and thicken with the corn-starch wet in a 
little cold nulk. Beat up the egg, stir ia the sugar, and 
both into the hot, thickened milk. Cook one minute, 
stirring all the time, take from fire, and when cold, flavor. 
Sift powdered sugar on the top of the cake, and eat while 
fresh, cutting into triangles. 

Berry Short Cake. 

Mix the cake as in last receipt, but in place of the cream 
fiUing, when cold, spread between the layers one quart of 
strawberries, black or red raspberries, mashed in a bowl 
and sweetened to taste, just before the cake goes to table. 
Sift sugar over the top and eat with mUk— or cream. 



204 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Peach Short Cake. 

Make in the same way, peeling the peaches, and cutting 
them up small before mashing. 

Breakfast Berry Short Cake. 

1 quart of sifted flour. 

2 cups of buttermilk, or of sour or loppered milk. 
■J cup of sugar. 

Yolk of egg. 

1 teaspoonful of salt and the same of soda sifted three 
times with the flour. 

1 quart huckleberries, blackberries, red or black rasp- 
berries. 

1 tablespoonful of lard and the same of butter. 
Chop the shortening into the salted flour, and wet up 
with the milk in which has been stirred the beaten yolk. 
EoU with light, swift strokes into a sheet half an inch 
thick Cut a piece to fit a greased baking-pan ; lay neat- 
ly in the bottom, cover with the berries, sift sugar over 
them, and lay another sheet, a trifle thmner than the low- 
er, over all. Bake in a steady oven to a good brown ; cut 
into squares and pUe on a warmed dish. Split and eat 
with sugar, hot. 

Foundation for Jelly or Cream Cake. 

3 eggs. 

1 good tablespoonful of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 
1 cup of prepared flour. 
1 tablespoonful of milk. 
Cream butter and sugar. Beat yolks and whites sepa- 
rately. Put the beaten yolks into a bowl, whip in butter and 



CAKES. 205 

sugar, then railk, the frothed whites, and flour alternately, 
quickly and thoroughly, bringing up a great spoonful of 
batter from the bottom of the bowl at every sweep. 

Butter three jelly-cake tins, put an equal portion of bat- 
ter in each, and bake in a tolerably quick oven. 

If you have not the prepared flour, make it by sifting 
three times with plain, flour half a teaspoonful of soda and 
twice as much cream of tartar. 

One of the best housekeepers I know always makes this 
mixture the vehicle of many varieties of jelly, cream, and 
meringue cakes. It is easy, inexpensive, and very good 
for this purpose, although not rich enough to " go alone." 

Spread jeUy between the layers, or a cream made accord- 
ing to directions found below. 

Cream for Cake Filling. 
1 cup of mUk. 

1 beaten egg. 
^ cup of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of corn-starch. 

1 teaspoonful of essence — vanilla or lemon. 
Heat the nulk, stir in the corn-starch untU it thickens 
well ; pour gradually upon the egg whipped Ught with the 
sugar, return to the saucepan and stir five minutes. It 
should be Uke a good batter. Season when cold and 
spread between the cakes. 

Old-fashioned Cup Cake. 

1 cup of mUk. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of stigar. 

3 cups oi prepared flour. 

4 eggs. 

Mix as directed in receipt for Jelly Cake, but bake in a 



206 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

buttered cake-mould, or in small tins. It is very delight-' 
ful baked in jelly-cake tins with cream filling, or with a 
meringue, made thus : 

Meringue Fiiling for Cake. 

"White of 2 eggs, beaten very stiif, with 1 cup of pow- 
dered sugar (heaping). Stir all the sugar into the whites 
before you begin to beat. Then lay aside the spoon and 
put in the Dover egg-beater, working it steadUy until it is 
very snowy and smooth. Now add the juice and half the 
grated rind of a lemon, or the juice and half the grated 
peel of an orange. Whip in well, spread between the 
cakes, adding more powdered sugar to the portion left 
for the top if you would frost the cake. 

Marble Cake. 

Mix in accordance with the rules given for Old-fash- 
ioned Cup Cake, but when ready for the pans take out 
a cupful of batter and beat into it two tablespoonfuls of 
grated chocolate, rubbed hard in a bowl, with a table- 
spoonful of milk. Put a few spoonfuls of the plain cake- 
batter into a buttered mould, and drop on it a spoonful 
of the chocolate mixture. Stir lightly and carelessly, 
spreading upon the lower layer as irregularly as you can. 
Then more yellow, and variegate it in the same way, until 
all is in. 

When baked and cut it will be found to be prettily 

mottled. 

Mamie's Cake. 

3 eggs. 

■| cup of butter. 

■^ cup of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2^ cups of prepared flour. 



CAKES. 207 

Cream butter and sugar, beat whites and yolks in sep- 
arate bowls ; whip the creamed butter and sugar into the 
yolks, the milk, lastly, whites and flour by turns, and 
hghtly. Stir well, and bake in one large, or several small 
tins. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

3 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of milk. 

3 cups of prepared flour. 
Mix and bake as for jelly-cake. • 

Filling. 

"White of 1 egg beaten light with 1 cup of powdered 
•sugar. (Stir all together before you begin to beat to a 
meringue.) 1 grated cocoanut. 

When the egg and sugar are ready, stir in half the 
cocoanut. Mix two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 
with the rest and strew on the topmost layer of the cake, 
when the meringue has been spread between the others. 

Nut Cake. 

2egga 

^ cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 
^ cup of cold water. 
1^ cup of prepared flour. 

1 cupful of nut-kernels freed from bits of shell, and 
rolled in flour. 
If almonds are used, blanch them, i.e., take off the skins 
by soaking them in boiling water ; let them get cold and 
cut small with a sharp knife. White or " EngUsh " wal- 
nuts must be cut each into several pieces. 

Max as with cup cake, the water taking the place of 



208 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

milk, and the nuts going in last. Bake in small tins or 
in one loaf in a steady oven. 

Huckleberry Cake. 

3 eggs. 

^ cup of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 
•^ cup of mUk. 

2 scant cups of prepared flour. 

2 cups soimd, ripe berries, dredged well •with flour. 
Wash and pick them over carefully, and drain 
dry before dredging, 
f teaspoonful of mixed nutmeg and cinnamon. 
Cream butter and sugar ; beat in the yolks, the milk, 
spice, flour, and whipped whites alternately ; finally, the^ 
berries. Mix them in thoroughly but cautiously. They 
should not be mashed or broken. Bake longer than you 
would plain cake, covering with clean paper should it rise 
too fast. Test with a straw to see if it is done. 

Wrap in a clean, thick cloth, and do not cut it imtil per- 
fectly cold. It is better not to use it the day it is baked. 
This is a Virginia receipt, and the product is worthy of 
its origin. Try it ! 

Sponge Cake. 

6 eggs. Weigh them with care, and take of sugar 

just their weight — of flour, half the weight. 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 
Use prepared floiur. 
Beat yolks and whites in different vessels; the pow- 
dered sugar into the yolks, whipping long and steadily ; 
the lemon, juice and peel ; the whites, and finally the 
flour, with just as few strokes as wiU. incorporate it with 
the other ingredients. Butter small tins, or one larger one 



CAKES. 209 

well, and bake in a steady, rather brisk oven. Cover the 
cakes with white paper when risen, as they scorch soon. 
A safe and easy receipt. 



Apple Cake. 

Mis and bake as directed in Foundation for JeUy 
Cake (page 204), and when cold spread with the follow- 
ing mixture : 

Apple Filling. 

3 juicy, well-flavored apples, peeled, cored, and grated. 

1 egg, beaten weU. 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of butter. 

Nutmeg and cianamon to taste. 

Beat the sugar into the egg, and into the bowl contain- 
ing them grate the apple, stirring it in as you grate. Put 
into a tin vessel, set in a saucepan of boihng water, and 
stir to a boiL Cook one minute after this sets in, to make 
sure the egg is done ; while still smoking hot, add butter 
and spice ; beat hard two minutes, let it cool, and spread 
on the cakea 

Baker's Cake Transformed. 

"When you have not time to make cake, buy a sponge or 
plain cup-cake, slice horizontally into three or four divi- 
sions, spread with fruit-jelly or made cream, as for cream 
cake, or with apple-fiUing. Stir up the white of two eggs 
with one heaping cup of powdered sugsu", then whip stiEf, 
add the juice of a lemon or of a sour orange, and cover 
the cake, top and sides. Dry in an open oven, or in the 
sunshine and air, and you have a pretty and reaUy nice 
dessert. 



2IO COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

2^ cups of floirr. 

■J- cup of molasses. 

^ cup of brown sugar. 

f of a cup of loppered milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda sifted three times with the flour. 

1 teaspoonful of ground ginger. 

^ teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Mix sugar, butter, molasses, and spice together ; set in 
the oven, or other warm place until lukewarm. Then beat 
hard five minutes, until the contents" of the bowl are light 
and foamy ; put in milk and soda ; beat two minutes 
longer, and bake in patty-pans, muffin-tins, or in two 
large "cards." 

This gingerbread is best when warm, although it wiU 
keep fresh for a day or two. Eat as a dessert with cheese 
and chocolate. It is far preferable to the average (or 
super-average) pie, costs less, and is easier of digestion. 

Currant Cakes. 

3 eggs. 

3 cups of prepared flour. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 scant cup of butter. 
^ cup of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 
1 cup of currants, washed, dried in the sun or oven, 
and dredged well with flour. 
Mix as you do other cup-cake, stir in the fruit at the 
last, beat up one minute, and bake in buttered patty-pans 
or shapes. 



CAKES. 211 

Cream-PufTs. 

^ pound of butter. 

f pound of prepared flour. 

6 eggs. 

2 cups of warm water. 
Stir the butter into the warm water ; set over the fire 
and stir to a slow boU. When it boils, put in the flour. 
Cook one minute, stirring constantly. Turn into a deep 
dish to cool. Beat the egg light — yolks and whites sepa- 
rately — and' whip into the cooled paste, the whites last. 
Drop in great spoonfuls upon buttered paper, not so near 
as to touch, or run into each other. Bake about ten min- 
utes in a quick oven, until they are of a golden brown. 

Filling. 

4 cups of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

2 eggs. 
"* 2 cups of sugar. 

1 full teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla essence. 
Wet the corn-starch to a smooth paste with a little of 
the milk ; boU the rest of the milk. Add to the beaten 
eggs the sugar and corn-starch. Pour gradually upon 
these the hot milk ; mix well ; return to the fire, and stir 
to a thick custard. Let it get cold before flavoring it. 
Pass a sharp knife carefully around the puffs — which 
should also be cold — spHt dexterously, and fill with the 
mixture. They are best when eaten fresh. 

Frankly — this is not a cheap receipt. But it is so good 
and so safe that I cannot resist the temptation to insert 
it here. It is especially commended to the country house- 
wife, as the chief expense is in the butter and eggs used. 



212 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Cookies (No. 1). 

i cup of butter. 
1 cup of Bugax. 

1 egg. 

^ cup loppered milk or of buttermilk. 

J teaspoonful of soda, sifted three times through 2 
cups of flour. 

J teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

A handful of raisins. 
Eub butter and sugar to a cream. Use powdered sugar, 
if you can get it. Beat up this cream well with the egg, 
add milk and spice, finally the salted flour. Koll into a 
thin sheet, cut into round cakes and bake in a quick oven, 
burying a raisin in the centre of each cooky. 

Cookies (No. 2). 
^ cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of sour milk, buttermilk, or "clabber." 

2 eggs. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of anise, caraway, or coriander 

seed. If the latter, pound them quite fine. 
1 tea^oonful of soda sifted into about 4 cups of flour. 
Mis as above directed, stirring in the seed last of all. 

Ginger Cookies. 

^ cup of butter. 

1 cup of molasses. 

^ teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. 

J teaspoonful of soda well sifted into the flour. 
Enough flour to enable you to handle the dough — 
and just enough. 



CAKES. 213 

Warm butter, molasses, and spice together, and beat to 
a yellow cream. Work in the flour gradually imtil you 
can mould it with floured hands. Pull off a bit of the 
batter, and roU in your palms to a Httle baU. Lay this 
in a greased pan, and pat gently into a flattened cake. 
When the pan is full of such, none of them touching hia 
neighbors, bake quickly. 

Molasses cakes are liable to bum, and need more vigi- 
lant watching than those in the manufacture of which 
sugar alone is used. 

Ginger Snaps {good). 
2^ cups of flour. 
^ cup of lard. 
^ cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 
■J- cup of molasses. 
■^ cup of water. 
1 even tablespoonful of ginger, and half as much 

cinnamon. 
1 even teaspoonful of soda sifted three times with 
the flour. 
Warm sugar, butter, and lard until you can whip them 
to a Hght-brown cream ; beat in spices, water, at last the 
flour. If the dough is not stiff enough to roll out, add 
flour cautiously. EoU into a thin sheet, cut into small 
cakes, and bake quickly. They keep weU and long. 

Jumbles, or Drop Cakes. 

1 cup of sugar. 

^ cup of butter. 

^ cup of loppered milk. 

legg. 

1 even teaspoonful of soda sifted three times through 

1^ cup of flour. 
^ teaspoonful of nutmeg or mace. 



214 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Cream butter and sugar, beat in the wMpped egg, the 
milk, spice, and work ia the flour to a soft dough. Drop 
by the tablespoonful on •well-greased writing-paper laid in 
a baking-pan, or with a spoon make small rings of dough 
on the same. These will broaden in baiing. The oven 
should be very quick, and the cakes so far apart that they 
will not run together as they warm. 

Crullers. 

1 cup of sugar. 

^ cup of butter. 
1 egg. 

1 cup of loppered or buttermUk. 

^ teaspoonful of soda sifted three times with the flour. 

2 cups of flour. 

Mis as you would cookies, roll out thin, cut into shapes, 
rings, rounds, etc., and fry in boiUng lard. Put this over 
the fire in a cold frying-pan and heat gradually. There 
should be five or six spoonfuls of it. Have the crullers aU 
cut out before you begin. Test the heat with a bit of 
dough. It should rise almost immediately to the top. 
Put a small peeled potato in the lard with the crullers, and 
leave it there untU the frying is over. Turn each cruller 
once, and as soon as it is puffjr and dehcately browned 
take up vdth a spUt spoon and put into a hot colander. 
Sift powdered sugar over them while hot. 

Doughnuts. 

1 heaping cup of sugar, brown and dry. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 

^ teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon and mace. 

As much allspice as will lie easily on a sUver half-dime. 

3 cups of flour. 

1^ cup of warm (not hot) milk. 
3 good tablespoonfuls of yeast. 



CAKES. 21 S 

Sift the salt twice through the flour, and make a hole in 
the middle. Put sugar, spice, and milk together, and stir 
unto the sugar dissolves, pour into the hollow, and stir 
the flour down into it with a chopping-knife. When the 
flour is all wet, hollow the dough, put in the yeast and, 
still using the chopper, mix and work it throughout the 
mass. It should be a soft dough just fit to handle. Laj' 
it on the floured pastry-board, roll it over gently several 
times and put into a floured tray or bowl to rise. Cover 
and set in a moderately warm place. It should be light 
in six hours. When well risen, turn it out on the pastry- 
board, work up lightly into a ball, and give it a second 
rising of two hours. Eoll into a sheet half an inch thick, 
cut into strips and twist into fantastic shapes, or into cu- 
des, the hole in the middle made with a smaller cutter, 
and the pieces thus extracted forming a " nut." Fry as 
you would crullers, in plenty of boUing lard. Drain in a 
sieve or colander as fast as they are done. 

Corn-starch Cakes. 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of sugar. 

■^ cup of milk. 

1 cup of flour (prepared). 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 
A little nutmeg. 

If you have only barrel floiu-, prepare it by stirring in |- 
teaspoonful of soda and twice as much cream of tartar and 
sifting three times. The com-stareh should be mixed with 
the flour and all sifted together. 

Cream butter and sugar, whip in the beaten yolks, the 
milk, nutmeg, lastly, the mingled corn-starch and flour. 

Bake in small tins. They should be eaten the day they 
are baked, and are then reaUy nice. 



2l6 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Unity Gingerbread. 

1 eren quart of sifted flour. 

1 even cup of butter and lard mixed. 

1 cup of molasses. 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of mixed cinnamon and allspice. 

1 small cup of cold water, and the same of chopped 
and seeded raisins. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, sifted with the flour three times. 

Warm together butter, lard, molasses, sugar, and spice, 

until you can beat them up with an egg-whip. Beat five 

minutes, steadily, to a creamy froth ; add the water, then 

the flour ; lastly, the raisins dredged well with flour. 

Stir faithfully and bake in greased patty-pans. They 
are extremely good. 



CUSTARDS. 



Boiled Custard. 

This is the base of so many deUcious desserts that it is 
worth while to learn the art of preparing it successfully. 
4 cups of mUk. 
4 eggs (5 are better, if you can spare them, but 4 will 

m'ake a tolerable custard). > 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 saltspopnful of salt. ~ "* 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla, or other essence. 

Heat the mUk to scalding, add the salt and sugar, and 
stir over the fire imtil they dissolve. Beat yolks and eggs 
in a bowl, very thick and smooth ; pour on them, by de- 
grees, the boiling milk, stining with the other hand all 



• CUSTARDS. 217 

the time. Put the custard into a tin pail or saucepan and 
set in boiling water. The water ia the outer vessel should 
be at least two-thirds of the way to the level of the cus- 
tard. Stir steadily ten minutes, then watch, as for liid 
treasure, for signs of thickening. The raw-egg color will 
have gone by now, and a creamy consistency will be ap- 
parent to eye and taste in the compovmd. A minute too 
long will curdle it, two minutes too early wiU. leave a 
crude flavor. When you have once detected the just mean, 
you wiU not be Kkely to mistake it afterward. Remember 
that it thickens after it leaves the fire, and allow for this. 
Pour from the kettle the instant it is removed from the 
stove, and set in a cold place. Nobody in this day — not 
even a London alderman — eats hot custard. There is a trar 
dition that it was a favorite dish with these city magnates 
some centuries ago. An old rhyme tells us — 

" They gather, they gather, 
Hot custards in spoons." 

Do not weary of the repetition of the caution to drop a 
tiny bit of soda into milk that is to be boiled. It arrests 
the acidification which is hastened by heat. Season when 
cold. 

Floating Island. 
4 cups of milk. 
4 eggs. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls currant or other fniit-jelly. 
1 teaspoonf ul of vanilla. 

A good pinch of salt, and one of soda stirred in the 
mUk. 
Heat the milk to scalding, and pour upon the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Add the sugar, return to the fire and 
10 



2l8 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

stir iintil it begins to thicken, which should be in about 
ten minutes. Take from the fire, and let it get cold before 
you flavor -with vanilla or other essence. Pour into a glass 
or china bowl. Beat the whites up to a standing froth, 
whipping ia, a little at a time, the jelly or preserve. This 
last should sweeten the m6ringue sufficiently. Pile the 
froth upon the surface of the custard ia great spoonfuls, 
and in helping it out see that some of the meringue goes 
on the top of each saucer. 

A pleasant variation of floating islands is cup-custards. 
Small cups or glasses are filled almost to the top with the 
custard, and a spoonful of mdringue, or " whip," crowns 
each. If you have nice cookies or light cake, send these 
around with the custard. 

Baked Custard. 

1 quart of milk. 

4 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

VanUla, or other seasoning. 

A pinch of salt and the same of soda. 
Scald the milk ; beat the eggs light, alone, then vrith 
the sugar. Pour over these the boiling milk, and having 
mixed well, turn into a buttered bake-dish. Season, and 
set the dish in a dripping-pan of boiliag water withiii a 
steady oven. There is no danger of scorched custard while 
there is water enough in the outer vessel. Bake untU 
well set in the middle, but no longer. When a knife 
makes a cut, and not a fast-closing dent in the centre, the 
custard is done. Eat cold. 

Tapioca Custard. 

1 small cup of tapioca. 
4 cups of mUk. 



CUSTARDS. 219 

2 cups of water. 
1 cup of sugar. 

3 eggs. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

A pinch of soda. 

1 teaspoonful of vaniUa. 
Soak the tapioca overnight in the cold water. Scald the 
milk with the soda and salt. Stir in the soaked tapioca, 
and do not withdraw the spoon until it is dissolved. Take 
from the fire, and pour upon the yolks and sugar, beaten 
light in a bowl. Return to the fire and stir ten minutes, 
or until it thickens well. Pour out and mix in Hghtly 
the whites of the eggs, whipped to a standing froth. Fla- 
vor, put into a glass bowl, and set on ice or in a very cold 
place. It is delicious. Always cook in an inner vessel set 
in hot water. 

Rice Custard. 

Soak a cupful of rice five hours, the last two in warm 
water ; put over the fire in four cups of mUk, with a pinch 
of soda and a quarter teaspoonful of salt. Set in a vessel 
of cold water and bring slowly to a boil, shaking up the 
inner vessel now and then. "When the rice is very soft, 
add a cupful of sugar, stir until dissolved ; pour upon the 
beaten yolks of three eggs, and thenceforward foUow the 
directions given for tapioca custard. 

Sago Custard. 

See directions for tapioca custard. 

Cocoanut Custard. 

Make a good boiled custard, flavor with one teaspoon- 
ful of bitter ahnond essence, grate a cocoanut, and when 
the custard is quite cold (it should be poured while warm 



220 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

into a glass bowl) strew the cocoanut on top. Sift white 
sugar over this. 

Snow Pudding. 

i package of Cooper's Gelatine. It costs half as much 
as Coxe's, and is even better for blanc-mange and 
similar preparations where transparency is not a 
desideratum, 

3 eggs. 

2 cups of milk. 

2 cups of sugar. 

A pinch of soda and one of salt. 

Juice of a lemon, strained. 

1 cup of cold water, and 2 cups of boiling. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in the cold water. Then . 
turn in the boiUng, and stir until the gelatine is melted. 
Add the lemon-juice and two-thirds of the sugar, and set in 
a cold place until it begins to congeal. The whites of the 
eggs should aU this while have been on the ice. Now 
whip to a standing froth, and beat in the gelatine, little by 
Httle, whipping three or four minutes on each spoonful 
imtn you have a white sponge. The process is facUitated 
if the bowl containing the mixture be set in ice-water 
while you beat. Wet a mould with cold water and put in 
the sponge. It will be ready to turn out in a few hours. 

Of the yolks, milk, and one-third of the sugar make a 
good custard, flavor with vaniUa, and let it get cold. 
Turn the snow-sponge into a glass dish, and pour this 
around the base. 

" The Dover '' wUl bring solidity and hghtneas out of 
the materials specified for this pudding with from twenty 
to thirty minutes' beating. I know of no other egg-whip 
of which the same can be asseited with truth. 

lids is an elegant dessert. 



FAMILIAH TALK. 



PECULIAELY APPBOPEIATE WHEN SAOT)"WICHED 
BETWEEN TWO CHAPTERS ON SWEETS. 



Flies. 

From a gossipy private letter I extract a paragraph : 
< 

" Our friend M lives the same fidgety life as of old; has the 

same unsparing eye for grease-spots ; is as intolerant of finger-marks 
on paint, and spends as many hours a day chasing the one audacious 
fly that has strayed into her house in spite of her closed blinds and 
screen-doors. She tells me that she believes flies will shorten her 
life by twenty years. " 

The tight, trim little woman is plainly present to my 
mental sight as I read. She is a dweller ia a cottage 
where even the suspicion of dirt ]^ actual transgression. 
Some day we may, perhaps, examine somewhat minutely 
her kind — the genus coarsely but aptly characterized as 
the "nasty-particular housekeeper." 

But, throughout the covmtry, every moderately neat 
housewife will sympathize in her last-named antipathy. 
There is hardly one of us who has not read with full appre- 
ciation of the impatient loathing that moved the outciy — 
Pharaoh's mandate to Moses, hastily summoned to the 
palace by reason of the "grievous swarm of flies" that 



222 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

"corrupted the land" — "J will let you go I Entreat for 
me!" 

The domestic fly is a necessary accompaniment of civ- 
ilization, say natural historians — a beneficent scavenger ; 
a cleanly insect that spends much of his brief existence in 
dusting his plumage and polishing his legs ; a friendly 
little creature whose beauty under the microscope justifies 
the spider's praise of his "diamond eyes" and "gauzy 
■wings.'' With nerves vrom to the quick by his teasing 
buzz and eyes continually offended by be-specked windo-ws, 
pictures, chandeliers, and hangings, we reject scientific 
prattle and vraite down the musca tribe as "vermia" and 
"unclean." In the desperation of disgust we do not con- 
sider it an imwarrantable use of Holy Writ when we speak 
of them as "spots in our feasts of charity, when they 
feast with us, feeding themselves without fear." 

I say " desperation," for the moods and habits of the 
pests vary with times and seasons, baffling experience and 
prophecy. One summer, we organize forces and conduct 
operations according to the most approved methods of 
defensive warfare. By six o'clock each morning, 

" All the windows of the Jumse 
We open to the day. " 

By eight o'clock we brush out all the flies that have not 
been lured into the out-door world by the sunlight, and 
shut Venetian blinds upon the morning coolness we have 
imprisoned for our daily need. When breakfast is over, 
soiled dishes, cups, etc., are removed to the kitchen or 
pantry sink, scraped, rinsed, and left under water until 
some one is ready to wash them. A piece of mosquito- 
netting kept for the pm-pose is thrown over the table 
when the crumbs have been swept off and the cloth relaid 
for the next meal. In ten minutes after we rise from the 



FAMILIAR TALK. 223 

board, not a scrap of foocl is left in the dining-room or 
kitchen to tempt a " scavenger " or a gluttonous fly. If 
■we can hve without air as well as without sunshine, we fit 
wire nettings in windows and doors, and rest in flyless 
respectability from morning until night, possessing body 
and soul in Pharisaic tranquillity. 

The next summer is neither colder nor hotter, neither 
drier nor wetter, than the preceding, nor is one precau- 
tion omitted. But within a week after the " cleanly " in- 
sects make their first friendly call, our warfare becomes 
aggressive. "We tack fly-paper on the walls of our cham- 
bers, set traps of soap-suds-and-treacle in the kitchen and 
in the eating-room concealed from general view, the latest 
patented snare for the unwary among the "grievous 
swarm" that tickle our noses while asleep, ramp over 
cooking utensils and promenade greedily upon dishes, 
plates, cups, and spoons — into our very mouths unless we 
beat them away, a "plague " that drives temper and almost ' 
reason out of the most patient household saint. We cease 
to respect ourselves, and expect condemnation of our 
housewifery from others when we do not succeed in 
abating the nuisance, while conscious that we have done 
our very best. 

Thus much of discouraging confession of the perplexi- 
ties of the Fly Question — the most serious of the minor 
problems with which our housekeeper has to deal. She 
would not be human did she not abhor the ofBcious 
torments naturalists class as harmless. More grace is 
required to overcome the irritation they engender, than 
to wage open, honest combat with wasps and hornets. 
The largest gift this "Talk" holds for their victim is sym- 
pathy. But a suggestion or two growing out of practical 
acquaintanceship with the subject may be of value. 

First: Bepel the temptation to use fly-poison in any 



224 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

shape in or near dining-room or kitchen. It is not appe- 
tizdng to behold the struggles of a drowning fly in cream- 
jug or soup-plate. The added impression that he dropped 
there in death-agony from poison is nauseating, and the 
chances of such accidents are multiplied a hundred-fold 
by insect-powder, "Sure Death," and fly-paper. It is 
almost impossible to protect food ■while in process of cook- 
ing or consumption from sickened, reeling vermin. 

Second : Cool darkness and vigilant cleanhness must be 
in some degree effectual in banishing the pertinacious 
creatures that revel in heat and filth. Our misery is 
measurably less than if we had not resisted the raid. If 
hundreds have stolen in past our defences, thousands have 
been kept out. By the help of judicious appliances, the 
infliction has been mitigated into tolerableness. The 
virtue of neatness, of watchfulness against all imaginable 
sources of discomfort from this cause is, Kkewise, vigilance 
against provocatives to disease, the prime blessing, in this 
case, depending upon the secondary. The uncovered 
drain, the uncleansed swill-pail that " draws flies, "as surely 
sends up infusoria that breed pestUence. In so far as the 
annoying hum of the eager swarm sounds this alarm their 
agency is beneficial. 

Third : It is a groundless if plausible superstition that 
it does no good to kiU flies, that "for every one slain ten 
come to the funeral." Fly-traps, the contents of which 
are scalded or burnt to death, not only lessen the present 
nuisance, but damage the prospects of a future supply, for 
which there is assuredly, to our way of thinking, no de- 
mand. I know a notable housekeeper who is reaping the 
reward of patient and continued experiment with one of 
these inventions — the " Clockwork Fly-trap," manufactured 
at Pittsfield, Mass. It is wound up every day. A slowly 
revolving cylinder is smeai'ed with molasses, and carries 



FAMILIAR TALK. 225 

the flies imder a grating from which they cannot escape. 
Every night this cage is detached from the rest of the 
apparatus, and set in a hot oven. When all the flies are 
dead they are thrown iato the fire, the cage is washed 
and ready for another day's work. 

" I have used it for four years," said the owner, when 
my remark upon the scarcity of flies ia her house led to 
the exhibition of the treasure. " Our famUy is very large, 
and screen-doors do little good where there are so many 
yoimg people running iu and out. , The first summer I 
caught and burnt nearly a pint a day ; the next not half 
so many, the third fewer stilL This year, while my neigh- 
bors are terribly annoyed by flies, the cool weather driving 
them in-doors, the trap seems to catch all that come to us. 
Yet I have not taken a quart in all in three months. I 
account for this by supposing that the germs die vnth the 
flies that would deposit them for another year.'' 

For the sake of my feUow-suflerei's from a common 
plague, I give this account and the title of the valuable 
" catcher." My iafosmant is a woman of intelligence and 
veracity ; her house is charmingly clean throughout ; her 
dining-room is kept dark between meals, and the fresh air 
admitted freely to all parts of the farmstead. Her machine 
is needed nowhere now except in the kitchen, where the 
cooking for twenty people is done, and here it does, as she 
aflBrms, " seem to catch all that come." 
10* 



226 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

JELLIES AND BLANC-MANGE. 



Cider Jelly. 

1^ cup of sugar. 

■^ package of Coxe's Gelatine. 

Juice and half the grated peel of a lemon. 

^ cup of cold water. 

2 cups of boiling water. 

A pinch of cinnamon. 

1 cup of clear sweet cider. 

Put the gelatine in a large bowl, pour the cold water 
over it, and soak one hour. Then put in with it the sugar, 
lemon-juice and rind, the spice, and covering the bowl 
leave for an hour longer. This will extract the fuU flavor 
of the lemon and further soften the gelatine. Next, pour 
in the boiHng water and stir until the gelatine is entirely 
dissolved. Add the cider, and strain through a double 
flannel cloth, not shaking or squegzing, but letting the 
jelly drip at its own will into a vessel set beneath. Wet 
a mould with cold water, without wiping it, pour in the 
jelly, and let it form in a cold place. 

When you vrish to turn it out, dip for a second — hardly 
more — in warm water, and invert on a dish or glass bowl. 

If jelly is not clear after the first straining, put it through . 
the bag again and yet again. 

Lemon Jelly. 

J package of Coxe's Gelatine. 

1 cup of cold water. 

2 lemons — the juice of both and grated rind of one. 

1 heaping cup of sugar. 

2 large cups of boiling water. 
Pinch of nutmeg. 



JELLIES AND BLANC-MANGE. 22/ 

Make as directed in foregoing receipt, leaving out the 
cider. 

Orange Jelly. 

i package of Coxe's Gelatine. 
Juice of 1 lemon and half the peel. 
Juice of 2 oranges, and grated peel of one. 
1 cup of cold water. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 Cups of boiling water (large ones). 
Pinch of cinnamon. 

Put the ingredients together as directed in receipt for 
Cider Jelly. 

Jelly in Oranges. 

You may produce a very pretty dessert-dish with com- 
paratively httle trouble by making orange-jeUy as above, 
and instead of setting it in moulds, use for this purpose 
the emptied rinds of oranges. Cut a small piece from the 
top of each, tearing out pulp and fibres cautiously until 
you leave the inner walls smooth and clean. FiU with and 
lay in very cold water while you make the jeUy with the 
juice squeezed from the extracted pulp. If there is much 
of it, lessen somewhat the quantity of water. When the 
jelly is cool — not congealed — empty the rinds of water and 
fill with jeUy. Set ia a cold place until very firm, and 
when you wish to use them, divide each orange in half 
with a sharp knife, and lay as you would the ripe fruit on 
a glass salver or dish. Send around spoons with them. 

Ribbon Jelly. 

1 package of Coxe's Gelatiae. 

1 cup of cold water. 

4 cups of boiling water. 
Pinch of cinnamon. 

2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of milk. 



228 , COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water three hours. Add a cup 
and a half of sugar and the cinnamon to two-thirds of it ; 
stir weU and pour on the boiling water. When perfectly 
dissolved, strain through double flannel, not pressing or 
shaking it. While it cools, make blanc-mange of the re- 
served third of the soaked gelatine by heating a cup of 
milk, putting in half a cup of sugar, then the gelatine. 
Stir until melted, and strain into a bowl. Wet a mould 
with cold water, pour in a little of the plaia jelly and set 
on ice, or in a very cold place, to form quickly. Color half 
the plain jelly with a little pulverized cochineal, rubbed 
up in a tablespoonful of water, then the deep red dye 
squeezed hard through fine musUn. A teaspoqnful wiU 
color a cupful of jelly. When the moulded, pale yellow 
jelly is pretty firm, put on with a spoon enough red to 
make a neat stripe ; set back on the ice, and when this 
stratum can bear the weight of another, drop in carefully 
some of the white blanc-mange. Use up your ingredients 
in this order, having a rather^broad band of white at the 
top, which wUl be the base when turned out. 

Let all get very firm before you loosen the contents of 
the mould by light, persuasive finger-touches, and dip for 
a second in warm water. 

Understand that this mould ol ribbon jeUy is really very 
little more trouble than a much plainer dish. While the 
strata are hardening, other work can go on without inter- 
ruption, and the real expenditure of time and care upon 
the ornamental part of the dessert be scarcely appreciable. 

Apple Jelly. 

^ package of Coxe's Gelatine. 

1 heaping cup of sugar. 

6 large, finely flavored juicy apples. 

X lemon — the juice and half the grated rind. 



JELLIES AND BLANC-MANGE. 229 

A good pinch of cinnamon. (This spice, when com- 
bined with lemon-peel and juice, makes a pecu- 
liarly pleasant flavor, resembhng the aroma of 
lemon, verbena, or "citron aloes.") 

1 cup of cold watgr. 

Peel and, at once, shce each apple into very cold water. 
Before they can change color, pack closely in a glass or 
stone jar, just cover with cold water, put on a loose hd 
that the steam may not crack the jar, set in cold water 
almost up to the neck, bring to a boil, and cook until the 
apples are clear and very tender. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in a cupful of cold water, 
add the lemon-juice and peel, sugar and cinnamon. Strain 
and squeeze the apples over them, boiling hot, stir to dis- 
solve the gelatine, and pour into a three-fold thickness of 
flannel Let it drip slowly, without pressing or shaking, 
and put into a wet mould. 

Eat with milk — or cream — or with a nice cold custard, 
poured about the base of the mould when turned into a 
bowl. 

Peach Jelly 

Is deHcious when made in the same way. Crack a few 
kernels and mi-ir with the fruit before stewing it. 

Jelly and Custard. 

Maie apple, or peach, or orange jelly ; dip jelly-glasses 
in cold water, half fill with the jeUy. Let it get cold, and 
fill up with cold custard (boiled). If you make this of 
the yolks of eggs and a meringue of the whites, heaping 
this latter on the surface of the custard, you will have a 
really elegant dessert. Send "to table in the glasses, accom- 
panied by sponge-cake. 



230 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Arrow-root Jelly {for mva 

3 full tablespoonfuls Bermuda arrow-root 

1 cup of boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar. 
Juice of half a lemon. 

A pinch of salt. 

Have ready the boiling water in a clean saucepan. Wet 
up the arrow-root with the cold water and stir into the 
boiling, slightly salted, and the sugar dissolved in it before 
the arrow-root goes in. Stir clear, and when the last trace 
of cloudiness disappears, add lemon-juice, and pour into a 
wet mould or glasses. 

"When firm, eat with powdered sugar and cream. 

I hardly know how sick children (and grown people) 
could be nourished in cases of feverish colds without this 
jelly. When the bowels and gastric organs are attacked, 
leave out the lemon-juice. Where weakness from these 
causes is extreme a tablespoonful of brandy may be added. 
Arrow-root thus prepared is singularly soothing and heal- 
ing to weak or inflamed bowels ; always strengthening and 



Sago Jelly. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sago. The "pearl " sago is best. 

1 cupful of cold water. 

2 full teaspoonfuls of white sugar. 
Juice of half a lemon. 

Pinch of salt. 

Soak the sago in cold water two hours. Set the vessel 

containing it then in another of cold water ; bring slowly 

to a boD., stirring up from time to time. When it is 

warm, add the sugar and a very httle salt, to take off the 



JELLIES AND BLANC- MANGE. 23 1 

flat taste. If it gets too tiiick in heating, thin with boil- 
ing water from the kettle. Cook until clear and about as 
thick as custard. Put in the lemon-juice after taking it 
from the fire. Form in wet glasses, and eat with sugar 
and cream. 

Never take too large a quantity, of food into a sick- 
room. The sight discourages, instead of tempting ap- 
petite. 

Tapioca Jelly. 

Make as you would sago, 

Blanc-Mange (plam). 

1 package of Cooper's Gelatine. 
1 cup of cold water. 

1 scant cup of sugar. 
Pinch of salt. 

3 pints of milk. 

Bit of soda the size of a pea dissolved with the salt 
in the mUk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of vaniUa-essence, stirred into the 

blanc-mange while it is lukewarm. 

Soak the gelatine two or three hours in the water. 
When it is soft and clear, put the milk over the fire, with 
soda and salt, in a vessel set in boiling water. When the 
milk is scalding, take the thin skin from the surface, put 
in the sugar, and when this is melted the gelatine. Stir 
five minutes, or until the contents of the vessel are boiling 
hot, strain through a coarse cloth, and set to form in a 
mould wet with cold water, not forgetting to flavor it. 
» Eat with or without mUk or cream. 

Blanc-mange is a popular dessert, and so simple, so 
easily and quickly made, it is surprising that in some of 



232 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

its attractive variations it has not driven the national pie 
clean out of the field. 

Corn-starch Blanc-Mange. 

4 heapiag tablespoonfuls of corn-starch wet up in. 2 

tablespoonfuls of mUk. 
2 eggs, whipped hght. 
1 quart of milt. 

1 cup of sugar. 

J teaspoonful of salt. 

Bit of soda the size of a pea dissolved with the salt in 
the milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla or bitter almond. 

Scald the nulk, with salt and soda stirred in. ; add the 
sugar ; when this is melted, the wet corn-starch ; stir until 
thick ; dip out a cupful and beat into the whipped eggs ; 
return this to the saucepan, cook one minute longer, stir- 
ring all the time, and set to form in wet moulds. Eat with 
milk or cream. You can make it without eggs, if you 
cannot spare these. 

Arrow-root Blanc-Mange, 

Make as you do arrow-root jelly, omitting the water 
entirely, substituting mUk. 

Tapioca Blanc-Mange. 

1 scant cup of tapioca. 

1 large cup of cold water. 

2 cups of mOk. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of vamlla. 

Pinch of salt and the same of soda in the milk. 
Soak the tapioca four or five hours — overnight if you 



JELLIES AND BLANC-MANGE. 233 

can remember it. . Scald the milt, stir ia the sugar, then 
the soft, clear tapioca. Cook and stir fifteen minutes ; 
taJie from the fire, pour into a bowl, put ia your egg- 
beater and whip two minutes to get out the lumps. 
Elavor, and mould in cups or bowls wet with cold water. 
"When firm, turn out and eat with cream. It is very good, 
especially for sick people. 

Farina Blanc-Mange. 

4 tablespoonfuls of farina, soaked one hour in a cupful 

of cold water. 
legg. 

4 cups of milk. 

5 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
i teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of Tanilla or other essence. 
Pinch of soda. 
Scald the milk, add salt and soda, sugar, and when iliis 
is dissolved the soaked farina. Stir and cook twelve 
minutes ; take out a cupful, and beat the whipped egg 
into this. Eetum to the saucepan and stir two minutes. 
Form in moulds wet with cold water. 

Eat with sweetened cream or with custard. 

Chocolate Blanc-Mange. 

■^ package of Cooper's Gelatine. 

■J cup of cold water. 

2 good tablespoonfuls of chocolate, grated, and wet 

up with 1 tablespoonful of milk. 
i cup of sugar. 
2 cups of milk. 

Bit of soda no larger than a pea in the milk. 
1 teaspoonful essence of vaniUa. 



234 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in the water. Heat the 
milk, add soda and sugar, stir in the gelatine and choco- 
late, until well dissolved, and cook two minutes. Strain 
through a thick cloth into a wet mould. Flavor when 
cooler. 

Medley Blanc-Mange. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of com-staroh. 

2 cups of milk. 

Pinch of soda. 

^ cup of sugar. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of grated chocolate. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. 

•J- of a grated cocoanut. 

Scald the milk, wet the corn-starch into a paste with a 
little cold milk. Add the sugar, soda, and, when these are 
dissolved, the corn-starch to the hot milk in the saucepan, 
and stir five minutes to thicken, and cook it well Turn 
out half into a bowl and set in a cold place, while you mix 
in the chocolate with that on the fire, and cook one min- 
ute. Wet a mould with cold water and pour in a third 
of the chocolate mixture. Set where it wiU soon form. 
Flavor with vanilla. When the uncolored blanc-mange is 
perfectly cold, but not hardened, beat in half of a grated 
cocoanut, and when the brown mixture is firm enough to 
bear the weight, put a third of the cocoanut blanc-mange 
on it. Let this get firm on the ice, or other very cold 
place, keeping the reserves of both kinds in a warm room. 
So soon as the cocoanut layer is congealed, put in another 
of chocolate, and wait until it wiU support more of the 
white. Use up your ingredients in this order, and when 
all are firm — say, in five or six hours — tiu:n out upon a 
flat dish, pour cold custard around the base, and serve. 



JELLIES AND BLANC-MANGE. 23 5 

This is a nice dessert for Simday when made on Satur- 
day, and is neither dear nor difficult. The alternate 
brown-and-white stripes are very pretty. 



Coffee Blanc-Mange. 

i package of gelatine. 
2 scant cups of nulk. 
1 cup strong clear coffee. 
■J cup of sugar. 
Pinch of soda in the milk. 
i cup of cold water. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in the water. Scald the 
milk, stir in soda and sugar until dissolved, add the gela- 
tine, and, this melted, the coflfee, hot and freshly made. BoU 
aU together two minutes, and strain through a thick cloth 
into a wet mould. 

Tea Blanc-Mange 

Is made as above, substituting a cup of strong mixed tea 
for the coffee. 

A Pretty Dish. 

Divide a soaked package of Cooper's Gelatine into three 
equal parts. Make one into chocolate blanc-mange, a 
second into coffee, a third into tea, in accordance with the 
receipts just given. Form in wet wine-glasses or egg-cups, 
and tTim out on a flat dish when you are ready to use 
them. GKve your guests their choice of flavoring. Strew 
powdered sugar and pour a little milk — if you have not 
cream — over each portion in serving. 



236 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Jaune Mange. 

■J package Cooper's Gelatine. 
^ cup of cold water. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 
^ cup of sugar. 

3 cups of milk. 

Pinch of soda in the milk. 

1 teaspoon ful of vanilla or other essence. 
Soak the gelatine two hours in the water. Heat the 
mUk, stir in soda and sugar, then the gelatine, and cook 
five minutes. Pour upon the beaten yolks by degrees ; 
return to the saucepan, and stir for two minutes steadily, 
to cook, but not curdle the eggs. Pour out into a wet 
mould, flavor as it cools, and set in a cold place. 

An Easter Dessert. 

1 package Cooper's Gelatine. 

1 cup of cold water. 

2 cups of sugar. 

4 cups of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of pulverized cochineal. 

12 empty egg-sheUs. 

Vanilla or other essence — 2 teaspoonfuls. 

Pinch of soda in the mUk. 
Soak the gelatine three hours ia the water. Heat the 
milk, stir in soda and sugar, then the gelatine, for three 
miautes after it is boiling hot again. When you take it 
up, flavor and divide into three parts ; color one-third yel- 
low with the beaten yolks, return this to the fire and cook 
one miaute. Into a second portion stir the grated chocolate. 



JELLIES AND BLANC-MANGE. 237 

linse out the saucepan, and cook this one minute. The 
third should be colored with the cochineal, rubbed into a 
tablespoonful of water, squeezed through a bit of muslin, 
and added, drop by drop, to the white blanc-mange until 
you have the desired shade of red. It needs no more 
cooking. 

In anticipation of this dessert save up egg-sheUs for 
several days, emptj-ing them through holes in the small 
end. Now, wash and soak well in cold water, leaving them 
filled with this for an hour or more, to get aU the albumen 
out. Fill them with the three mixtures, four of each 
color, and set carefuUy upright in a pan of meal or bran, 
to keep them from spilling or tipping. Next day, break 
the shells away, bit by bit, cracking each all over by tap- 
ping it gently with a knife or spoon. Lay them in a dish 
and pour a cupful of clear jelly — cold, but not yet firm — 
over them. Set in a cold place to harden the jelly. 

This dish may seem elaborate at the first glance, but it 
is really a very simple affair, and beyond the fifteen cents 
paid for the gelatine, and five or six cents for the sugar, 
involves but a trifling outlay. 

You can, if you Uke, divide the blanc-mange into four 
parts, leaving one white. It is a beautiful dessert. 



A Bird's Nest. 

Make plain white blanc-mange, flavored with vanilla, 
mould in egg-sheUs and set to form. Shred the yeUow 
rind of two oranges into slender lengths like straws ; put 
over the fire in cold water, and bring to a boU. Drain 
and drop the shreds into another saucepan in which you 
have boiled for haK an hour three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar in a scant cup of hot water. Simmer gently haK an 
hour longer, and set away syrup and peel to cool together. 



238 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

On the next day, drain every drop of syrup from the shreds 
and arrange them, nestwise, in a glass dish. Dispose the 
eggs (when^the shells have been removed) tastefully upon 
the "stravr," and the dish is ready. 

Or, 
Make a custard, allovdng three eggs and half a cup of 
sugar to two cups of milk, a pinch of soda, and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and cooMng into a fair thickness. Let 
it get very cold in a glass dish, and as the eggs are freed 
from the shells, lay gently in the yeUovir bed. 

Or, again. 

Arrange the blanc-mange eggs on a bed of grated cocoa- 
nut lightly sprinkled with powdered sugar, and pour a 
Uttle custard into the saucers in which an egg and a 
spoonful of cocoanut are passed to each person at the 
table. 

All of these combinations are pleasing, and wiU. repay 
the thought and ingenuity expended upon them. 



BEVERAGES. 



Coffee. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

1 even cup of freshly ground coffee, wet up with half 

a cup of cold water. 

White and shell of 1 egg or the freshly broken shells 

of two. 

Stir into the wet coffee the white and shell, the latter 

broken up small If you cannot afford to bl^eak an egg 

every morning just for this purpose, save the shells of 

those used for muffins, cakes, or omelette, and clear the 



BEVERAGES. 239 

coffee with them. Put the mixture into the coffee-pot, 
shake up and down six or seven times hard, to insiu-e 
thorough incorporation of the ingredients, and pour in 
the bmling water. Boil steadily from twelve to fifteen 
minutes, pour in half a cup of cold water, and remove 
instantly to the side of the stove where it cannot boU. 
Iieave it there five minutes ; lift and pour off the clear 
liquor gently into the table-urn or coffee-pot, not to dis- 
turb the grounds. 

This win make a quart of strong coffee. Never make 
weak. It is better to take half the quantity of water and 
coffee and dilute their product with hot water or milt in 
the cups, than to pour out the wishy-washy decoction 
misnamed "good coffee" by housewives whose families 
"don't take it so strong as some people hke it." Every 
expert coffee-maker will agree with me that the genuine 
article — clear, fragrant, and red-brown as the toasted 
berry that has yielded up its strength to give it body 
and beauty — when diluted with half its weight of boiling 
water or scalding milk in the cup, is infinitely preferable 
to ceffee that was made weak in the boil. The taste and 
look and smeU of the two beverages are entirely different, 
as unlike as the temporary enfeeblement of a robust con- 
stitution, and the debility of one that has always been 
fragile. 

Black Coffee 

Is an excellent stomachic. Physicians are fast settling 
into the behef that it is the most wholesome preparation 
of coffee. Many can drink it clear, i.e., without cream or 
sugar, who dare not use it with these modifications. It 
is a pleasant and graceful sequitur to dinner, and most 
" Johns " like to take it in sitting-room or parlor, seated 
at ease, with liberty to chat while they sip it slowly. 



240 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Make as you would breakfast coffee, but heap the cup 
with ground coffee for the quart of water, boil fast fifteen 
minutes, and pour out as soon as it is settled. The beauty 
of black coffee is to be fresh and hot. Serve in small cups, 
and put no sugar in the coffee. Lay, instead, a lump in 
each saucer, to be used as the drinker hkes. I have seen 
excellent judges and true lovers of coffee eat a lump of 
sugar after emptying the cup of clear Hquid. 

Cafe au Lait. 

J cup of ground coffee wet with three tablespoonfuls 

of cold water. 
2 cups of boiling water. Cold water for settling. 
1^ cup of fresh milk. 
Make the coffee in the usual way, boiling it fifteen min- 
utes. Einse out your table coffee-pot very clean, or use a 
pitcher instead. Pour in the milk, scalding hot, add the 
cleared coffee, cover closely, and set for five minutes in a 
pot of boiling water. It is very good. 

Tea. 

As an appreciative lover of good tea, I have to guard 
pen, tongue, and countenance when thinking of the un- 
conscionable murder of the Chinese -plant going on, daily 
and tri-daily, in homes where a blessing is made to be a 
curse. The saddest feature of the wrong is that those 
who drink most tea understand least how to make it. 
The Irish servant-girl "couldn't hve without it," nor the. 
pale seamstress who " feels as if she would break in two " 
if her supply is withheld for a siagle meal. Good tea is 
costly, so the twice-steeped and dried herb, mixed with 
others of native growth and colored with blueing, is bought 
at half-price and boiled to extort all the bitterness of 



BEVERAGES. 241 

strength left in the wretched imitation. The teapot 
stands on the range all day, and the topers find a " power 
of comfort " in it. Our grandmothers invented the phrase 
"tea-cross" to express the reaction consequent uj)on the 
comfort aforesaid. Young girls and growing lads should 
use neither tea nor coffee habitually. Their complexions 
and nerves would be the better for total abstinence from 
even these milder stimulants. Their elders would do well 
to foUow their example, unless they can afford to buy good 
tea and real coffee, and know how to prepare both prop- 
erly for table-consumption. 

First and pre-eminent in importance, let your kettle be 
on the boil, actual and hard, before you begin to make 
tea. Scald out the teapot, allow for four cups of boUing 
water thi-ee full teaspoonfuls of tea. Put this dry into 
the pot, wet with half a cup of boiling water, and cover. 
If you have no " cosy," make or improvise one. It is a 
wadded cap set down over the pot, fitting it tolerably 
close, and keeping in all the aroma and heat. In five 
minutes, lift it, and pour in as much boihng water as you 
need for those who are to take tea with you. Pit on the 
cosy again, and in three minutes more pour out into the 
cups. 

The prettiest and most satisfactory method of tea- 
making is to prepare it on the table. A spirit-lamp keeps 
"the boiling water brought from the kitchen hot untU the 
"maceration" or steeping prepares the leaves for the 
larger supply. The flame may then be extinguished. 
Those who are accustomed to tea made thus, revolt at the 
poor infusions in unboiled water and the as abhorrent 
rankness of boiled tea. 
11 



242 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Chocolate. 

5 heaping tablespoonfuls of chocolate. Baker's is per- 
haps the best. 

3 Clips of boiling water. 

2 cups of boiling milk. 

Sugar at discretion. 
Eub the chocolate smooth in a little cold water, and stir 
into the boiling water over the fire. Boil twenty min- 
utes ; put in the milk, which has been heated in another 
vessel, and simmer ten miautes longer, stirring often. 
Sweeten on the fire, or in the cups, as you prefer. 

Shells or Cocoa <'Nlbs." 

1 quart of boiling water. 

2 ozs. of cocoa shells. 
2 cups of milk. 

Wet the shells vrith cold water and let them steep an 
hour. Stir this into the boihng water and cook gently 
one hour. Strain through a coarse cloth, pressing hard, 
add the boiling mUk, sweeten to taste ; set ia a pan of hot 
water ten miautes and pour out. 

These "shells" are cheap, and it is worth while to keep 
a small supply on hand. The drink made from them is 
more pleasant to the taste, less heavy than chocolate, and 
better for people of weak nerves than tea or coffee. 

Lemonade. 

4 lemons. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1 quart of water. 
Peel, roU, and slice the lemons into a pitcher ; add the 
sugar, and leave imtil just before you want to use the lem- 



BEVERAGES. 243 

onade. Pour in the water then, stir well, crushiag the 
lemons to get out all the juice, and it is ready. 

Lemon-peel should never be put into this beverage. It 
imparts a bitter, and if it stands long, a pungent flavor. 

Put ice in each glass. 



Tea ii la Russe. 

Make tea in the usual way ; let it get cold on the leaves ; 
then strain off into a pitcher, and slice two or three peeled 
lemons into each quart. The slices should be thin. Put 
sugar and ice into tumblers and fill up with the tea. 

Great bowls of this, ice-cold and well-sweetened, are 
popular at fairs, church-receptions, and picnics, and have 
become a fashion at evening-parties where wines and 
punch are not served. 



Iced Coffee. 

Make cqf^ au lait, let it get cold, and serve, sweetened 
and iced, at lunches and boating or gipsying parties. 



Crust Coffee, or Toast-water. 

6 slices of toasted bread, stale, and well browned, but 
not scorched. Dry them in the oven before 
toasting. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

Sweeten to taste. 

Break the toast into a pitcher ; cover with the water, lay 
a thick cloth over all, and let it get cold. Then strain, ice, 
and sweeten. It is often prescribed for invalids — espe- 
cially for teething children. 



244 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Apple Tea. 

2 finely flavored pippins. 

1 quart of cold water. 

As much ginger aa will lie on a silver dime. 

Sugar to taste. 
Pare and slice the apples, leaving the seeds in. Pack 
with the ginger in a glass or stone jar, pour in the water, 
put on the top loosely, and set in a kettle of cold water. 
Let it boU untU the apple is broken to pieces. Strain 
while hot, squeezing hard. Strain again through flannel 
without pressing, and let it get cold. Sweeten and ice. It 
is recommended for fever patients. 

Flax-seed Lemonade. 

5 tablespoonfuls whole flax-seed. 

Juice of 2 lemons. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

Sugar to taste. 
Steep the flax-seed two hours in the water. Add lemon- 
juice and sugar. For heavy colds, take it warm, keeping 
the pitcher containing it covered in a vessel of hot water. 

Iceland-Moss Lemonade. 

1 handful (dry) Iceland or Irish moss. 

2 quarts boiUng water. 

2 lemons — the juice only. 

Sugar to taste. 
Wash the moss over and over in several waters, picking 
out bits of stick and sand, untU it is white and clear. 
Rinse once more and shake off the wet before putting it 
into a pitcher with the juice and four tablespoonfids of 
sugar. Leave for ten minutes, then pour on the water 



PICNIC DISHES. 245 

boiling hot, and, covering the pitcher, set it in hot water 
for one hour. It is best very cold. Keep it in a cool 
place, and let the sufferer from hoarse cold, sore throat, or 
cough, drink very freely of it by day and night. 



PICNIC DISHES. 



There is no more wholesome or satisfactory method of 
entertainment — cheap or dear — than an afternoon tea or 
noon-day lunch in the woods in fine summer weather. If 
the dwellers in American cottages would expend half the 
sum per season in this kind of merry-making that goes to 
the getting-up of a single high tea or evening party served 
in a crowded room to people who are not hungry, the race 
would be happier and healthier. A " basket-picnic " 
served in a grove accessible by a short walk from railway 
station or street-car terminus needs only a summer sky, 
chosen friends, and good spirits to make it a social success. 
Whatever tempts to such hoUdays for our overworked, 
over-anxious men and women, is an experiment in active 
benevolence we do well to try. In the hope of encourag- 
ing our young housekeeper to do her part in the good 
work, I append some practical hints that may simplify the 
process of preparing and serving her woodland fete. 

Pack one basket with spoons, forks, one or two knives, 
Japanese napkins, wooden plates — such as grocers use 
for butter — common tumblers, two or three towels, a bit 
of toilet soap, a table-cloth, and a pitcher or tin pail. Put 
in as few heavy articles as possible, out of regard to the 
carrier's arm. In another have sandwiches, cold meats, 
cake, etc., the " body '' of the feast, not forgetting pepper 
and salt, each done up in a sealed envelope. A third 
should contain the cold tea or coffee in tightly corked bot- 



246 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

ties, the sliced lemons and sugar in a glass jar with a 
screw-top, and pickles or olives. If you have fruit, give it 
a small hamper by itself, an ornamental one if convenient, 
which may be Hned with fresh leaves on the picnic 
ground and passed from guest to guest. Take care to 
pitch your sylvan tent in. contiguity to well, spring, or 
brook, from which you can get water for filling up lemon- 
ade-jar and water-paiL Carry a lump of ice, wrapped 
tightly in newspapers and bound with packthread. Un- 
less the distance is great, it may then be folded in a gos- 
samer rubber cloak and done up ia a shawl-strap, or in a 
hand-basket. Ask your guests to take shawls and water- 
proofs. In the driest weather it is never prudent to sit on 
the ground without such protection. 

Arrived at the appointed place, serve your little feast 
while dayhght lasts, postponing strolls, boating, and games 
untU. it is over. Make a frolic of setting the table. 
Young and old will enter zestfully into the business of the 
hour. Appoint committees, if you will, upon substantials, 
cake, finiit, lemonade-making, water-bearing, and the like. 
If you have salad, prepare the dressing at home and take 
it out in a sealed jar or bottle, the salad itself, cut up and 
ready for . dressing, in a bowl tied about in a napkin. 
Dress it altogether in the bowl when everything else is 
ready. Cut the sandwiches of uniform size, and wrap in 
packages of a dozen each in white tissue-paper. Devilled, 
or stuffed eggs, should be enveloped singly in squares of 
tissue-paper fringed at t^o ends and twisted hghtly about 
the eggs. Berries must have a bowl or fancy basket of 
their own. Take sugar for them in a tumbler, tied up 
securely, and small saucers. The ice shoidd be unpacked, 
washed, cracked, and a piece put into each tumbler. Pass 
sugar with coffee, tea, and lemonade for those who like 
these very sweet There should be no carving done on 



PICNIC DISHES. 247 

the ground. Fowls should be jointed, tongue and other 
meats carved at home and wrapped in close piles, in thick 
white paper. Use printed paper for nothing except ice. 

The ladies should be seated alternately with attendants 
of the other sex, and the waiting, replenishing glasses and 
plates, etc., be done by the latter. Have a certain easy 
decorum in the appointment and conduct of the collation, 
holding the direction of this in yomrown hands. Impress 
by your example and bearing what gay young people are 
prone to forget under the influence of out-door air and 
scenes, to wit, that informality and lawlessness are not 
interchangeable terms. Stand as pleasantly upon the 
order of your feast as you wiU, but do not let it degener- 
ate into a scramble. 



Boiled Ham. 

Soak aU flight in cold water. In the morning wash 
and scrub it well, put it over the fire in plenty of cold 
water, and boil fifteen minutes to the pound. Eun a 
skewer or knitting-needle into the thickest part, and if it 
goes in easily, take off the pot and let the ham get cold 
in the water. 

Strip off the skin then, and slice as much as you need 
for your picnic, using a sharp knife and cutting the slicea 
very thin. 

For sandwiches, butter the end of the loaf after re- 
moving the crust, and cult into thin, imiform slices, but- 
tering the loaf between the removal of each piece and the 
next. This is a neater and easier way of spreading bread 
than sHcing the bread and then applying the butter. If 
you put the slices of ham in whole, do it smoothly, trim- 
ming each to fit the bread, and leaving but a narrow mar- 
gin of fat on the lean. If you spread a httle made mus- 



248 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

tard on the meat, divide the sandwiches containing this 
seasoning from the others, and give your guests the choice 
between them and the plain slices. 

Chopped ham is much preferred by many to the whole 
slices in making sandwiches. Mince it in a chopping- 
tray, season with pepper, work in a little melted butter to 
make a slightly-coherent paste, aaid spread between the 
buttered slices of bread. 



Boiled Tongue. 

Soak overnight in cold water. In the morning scrape 
off the grease and dust, put over the fire in plenty of cold 
water, and boil four hours if the tongue is of fair size. 
Take out of the water, peel away the skin, and return the 
tongue to the water until cold. Slice and pack in a close 
parcel, buttering bread to pass with it, or make into sand- 
wiches, slicing thin and lengthwise — that is, from the tip 
to the root, which, of course,- cannot be used. The advan- 
tages of cutting it thus, instead of in the usual way, is, 
first, in superior tenderness, then in the facility offered for 
dividing the tongue-slices evenly and impartially to fit the 
bread. 

Sweetbread Sandwiches. 

Boil two sweetbreads twenty minutes in salted hot 
water. Take them out and plunge into very cold, leaving 
them there for am hour. Wipe them dry, mince, season 
with pepper and salt, work in a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, and spread between buttered bread. 

The two sweetbreads will fill perhaps six sandwiches. 
Mixed with an equal quantity of chopped ham they wiLL 
suffice for a dozen. This is the best sandwich mixture I 
know of. 



PICNIC DISHES. 249 

Chicken-and-Ham Sandwiches. 

If chickens are dear and scarce, buy for sixty cents a 
can of boned chicken ; mince and mix \^ith a like quan- 
tity of chopped ham, seasoning with pepper, and adding 
a little melted butter. 

This mU fill two dozen large sandwiches, thirty small 
ones. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Open a half-box of sandwiches, take out the fish and 
drain off every drop of oU by leaving them in a colander 
for an hour, then spreading on thick, soft paper. Remove 
the backbones, and one by one scrape them into bits with 
a knife and fork. Work into the picked fish a little cay- 
enne pepper, a tablespoonful of melted butter, and the 
juice of two lemons. Spread the paste between buttered 
slices of bread. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

Boil six eggs hard, drop them into cold water and leave 
for half an hour. Peel and chop very fine, rub to a paste 
with a tablespoonful of melted butter, salt and pepper to 
taste, and spread on the bread. 

Or, 
Slice the hard-boiled eggs when they are cold vrith a 
keen, clean knife, butter, pepper, and salt each slice, and 
lay closely together between buttered bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Grate dry, mild cheese, work in cayenne pepper and 
salt to taste, then a little melted butter, and spread in the 
usual way. 

11* 



2 so COTTAGE KITCHEN. 



Beef Loaf. 



IJ lb. of raw beef, cut into small dice. 

■J lb. of fat salt pork, minced. 

■J cup of crushed cracker — very fine. 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. 

1 small tablespoonful of butter. 

Season to taste with minced or powdered sage, parsley, 
or summer savory. 

Work the mixture up well in a chopping-tray and pack 
in a buttered bowl or mould. Cover very closely, set in a 
dripping-pan of hot water, and cook one hour and a quar- 
ter, replenishing the pan with boiling water as it evap- 
orates. When done, take froioa the oven, press a closely 
fitting plate or saucer down upon, the surface of the loaf, 
and set a fiat-iron on this. Let it stand thus all night. 
When you are ready for it, turn out and slice with a sharp 
knife. 



FAMILIAE TALK 



DISH-MT ASHING. 



Asm in absurdity to the belief prevalent with men that 
aU women take naturally to the use of the needle, is the 
impression, not confined to the sterner sex, that all varieties 
of household work are equally agreeable to her whose turn 
of mind and taste is " domestic." In no other department 
of duty and labor are specialties more distinctly defined, 
or the liking for one and aversion for another occupation 
more decided. 

I think that I hardly hazard contradiction in asserting 
that next to washing the soiled linen of a family — work 
now almost universally commttted to hired laundi-esses — 
the least popular branch of household employment is the 
cleansing of vessels used in the preparation of food, those 
in which it goes to the table, and in which it is served to 
the consumers. The arbitrary term "dish-washing" is 
supposed to cover the ground, and is varied in some 
mouths by the still less descriptive definition, " washing 
up tfie things " — a sigh of patient wearriness or impatient 
contempt often supplying the emphasis. I recall, now, 
the flush that suffused the wan face of a city missionary's 
wife when detaiUng to me the nature and amount of the 
exactions that had worn her down from a pretty accom- 
plished girl to a hollowed-eyed drudge, who " had no time 



252 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

to keep up reading, study, or music." She had five 
children, a parish, and one servant, did most of the family 
sewing, helped with the fine -ironing, and had no one to 
assist her, in turn, with nursery and chamber work. 

" I have never stood at the wash-tub," she concluded. 
" And I win riot wash dishes ! That form of degradation 
has, up to this time, been spared me." 

In the depth of my compassion I did make to her a 
confession I hesitate to utter in the hearing of certain 
very exemplary women who look well to the ways of their 
household; and do not know so much as the taste of the 
bread of idleness. I like to wash dishes ! I am secretly 
pleased when domestic exigencies in the form of iUness, 
absence, and " change " indicate the expediency of my as- 
sumption of this part of the family service for the day. I 
enjoy getting hold of the china, that cannot be to any one 
what it is to the house-mistress ; like to rub' the silver 
bright vdth soft linen as it is drawn from the scalding 
suds ; to dry, with a dexterous twist of the glass towel, 
crystal almost too hot to handle, and hold it.up to the light 
to be sure no cloud remains to mar its sparkle and clear- 
ness. The taste may be plebeian, but it is ineradicable. 

Bear with me, contemptuous reader, while I relate in 
partial justification of the idiosyncrasy the manner in 
which the friend who taught me dish-washing as a fine 
art conducts the process. 

She has two pans — large and of the same size — set on 
a table in the light closet adjoining the dining-room. 

" The sink of a butler's pantry would be more conven- 
ient," she says, blithely, " but, you see, I haven't a butler's 
pantry ! " 

One pan contains clean hpt suds, in which she dips, as 
soon as the table is cleared, first the silver, then emptied 
cups and saucers, next, the scraped plates, lastly, the 



DISH-WASHING. ^253 

dishes ; putting in several pieces at a time, giving each a 
swirl with a mop, to rid it of grease or sweets, and set- 
ting it, dripping wet, on a broad tray. When all have 
been rinsed, she throws away the much-abhorred " dish- 
water," once and forever. With it go reek and scum, and 
all that could offend even my poor " born lady," who 
shrank from this form of degradation. If my friend is 
not ready to finish the task, she returns the china — ^not 
glass and silver — to the rinsing-pan, when she has scalded 
this, and pours clean warm water over the pUe, to await 
her convenience. If the business is to be got out of hand 
forthwith, she lays her " Dover Soap-shaker " clasped fast 
over a piece of hard yellow soap in the bottom of the sec- 
ond pan, and sends a jet of scalding water directly from 
the teakettle upon the wire cup. A miniature geyser 
arises, foaming and seething, until, when the pan is two- 
thirds fuU of water, the snowy lather, the very essence 
and type of purification, heaves upward to the brim. The 
glasses go in first, each being dipped deftly full of hot 
water as soon as it touches the surface. There is ho 
danger of breaking when this is done. Each is fished up 
with a second mop (that used for rinsing being kept for 
that purpose only), and wiped quickly with the finest of 
the cup towels. When the last glass is drawn out, the 
silver takes its turn. Every article is rubbed fast and 
hard in the drying. Usually, the strong, scalding suds 
suffice, with this friction, to poUsh it. If a spoon or fork 
is tarnished, a tooth-brush kept for this office, rubbed on 
Indexical Silver Soap or dipped in "Electro-Sihcon," sets 
aU right. Next comes the china ; lastly, what coarser ware 
may need attention— bowls, pitchers, and the Hke. Noth- 
ing is drained. That process of the slow and easy hireling 
or ignorant housewife our artist repudiates with fine scorn. 
She takes out and wipes her treasures, piece by piece. 



25iJ COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

The pile disposed of in sHning rows, ready for table or 
cupboard, the pans are washed, emptied, wiped, and hung 
up, the mops wrung hard, shaken well, and returned to 
their nails ; and the satisfied housewife takes off her bib- 
apron and her gloves. That dish-washing may be done 
with gloves on, she demonstrates triumphantly, thus avoid- 
ing chapped hands in winter, and red, sodden fingers at 
aU seasons. Her gauntlets are a pair of old wash-leather 
gloves discarded by her husband, and fitting her hands 
loosely. She cut off the finger-tips, tacked each seam at 
the top to prevent ripping, and sewed elastic ribbon at 
the wrists, to keep them close and firm. When they get 
wet, she stretches them in the sun to dry. 

"I never dreamed there could be invented a toney way 
of washing dishes," cried a gay collegian, who chanced to 
witness the operation. "I believe you could dignify a 
scrubbing-brush ! " 

He touched the secret without unfolding it. No species 
of honest labor is in itself degrading. Every task, per- 
formed because it is duty and for others' good, is dignified 
and ennobling. 

Hired servants do *not, unless tutored and watched, 
wash dishes in the manner above described. Nor yet 
coarse-natured, hard-handed women whose "best things" 
are kept for high-days and city company, and who eschew 
as " finical " napkins and butter-knives. But she whose 
genuine ladyhood subordinates her cheap surroimdiags 
who, faithfully making the best of herseK, brings circum- 
stances up to her level — or the well-to-do matron who 
winces at the sight of what a wondering masculine house- 
holder once called in my hearing "fringed china," yet 
cannot drill her servants into tenderness of touch and 
dainty method: — may with propriety and profit follow this 
lesson in "Dish-washing made easy.'' 



NEST-BUILDING. 



" That is the key-note," said a celebrated painter, dash- 
ing what looked like a broad charcoal scrawl on a sheet of 
drawing-paper. " Now we will work up to it I " 

The youthful pair, bent upon the conversion of the en- 
chanting abstraction — " our home " — into the concrete of 
"our house," may take a hint from the anecdote. The 
inharmonious interior of many households results from 
inattention to the cardinal law of consistency in design 
and tone. A pernicious custom, more in vogue formerly 
than now, ordained the postponement of the fumishment 
of " the parlor " iintU the family finances warranted the 
execution of the task in " handsome " style. When the 
auspicious period arrived, the eifect of new cloth upon an 
old garment had the added element of garishness. The 
spick-and-span splendor of the state apartment agreed as 
well with the rest of the house as a figure cut from a 
Japanese screen would consort with the environments, if 
pasted upon one of Kaphael's age-mellow cartoons. 

The bride of our day is apt to blunder to the other 
extreme of making her parlor the key-note and work- 
ing other rooms up to it. There can be no question as to 
the comparative taste of the two methods — and none as 
to the comparative economy. 

To descend to details and practical talk : In beginning 
house-keeping, first get your house. Avoid the error of 



256 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

choosing too large a shell The pains and expense that 
would suffice to make a small house pretty would diffuse 
scant desolateness throughout a large one. The Darby 
and Joan in whose behalf this sketch is penned, desire 
to house, not establish, themselves. "We assume, further- 
more, that they are not yet able or ready to build. They 
have hired, at a nominally moderate rate, one of a block 
of brick tenements, two-and-a-half stories high and two 
rooms deep. Every house-liunter knows the stereotyped 
topography of such. Being a cheap construction, there 
is not even the rehef of a bay-window in the front eleva^ 
tion. If Joan would introduce nookiness as an element 
of home comfort she must make it after the fashion of the 
Israelites', bricks. Darby whistles softly and not merrily 
asiihey tramp up and down the uncarpeted stairs; the 
bare rectangles of the walls give back their young voices 
in unsympathetic echoes. 

" I suppose it win look different when the furniture — 
and you — are in it," he says. 

The honest affection which is his best substitute for tact 
transforms the dreary scene for the brave little wife. 

"It begins to feel hke home already ! " she cries. " We 
can't mate it grand, dear, and if we could, grandeur does 
not go weU with youtk But we can and we wiU make it 
cosy!" 

She uses the first person plural in loving comphment. 
But it is she who spends succeeding weeks -in examina- 
tions many and purchases not a few. The pleasant face 
is more sober than her husband could wish, and the smile 
of welcome that greets his return at evening does not 
efface the thought-Unes which he dreads may deepen into 
care-fiirrows by-and-by. Once he wonders aloud "if the 
game is worth the candle." 

Joan's start has the energy of surprise. 



NEST-BUILDING. 257 

" I never enjoyed anything more ! And it is such fun 
keeping ■within our means." 

He does not understand the fact or the fun when the 
spirit of manly iucaution leads him to enter a fashionable 
carpet emporium and ask the price of parlor carpets. 
The cheapest and tawdriest Brussels exhibited to ViiTn is 
$1.50 per yard. At his low-spirited mention of the size of 
the front parlor, he is told that at least twenty-four yards 
will be required for that room alone. « 

"If you would like to look at a good body-Brussels, 
now? " insinuates the salesman. 

" Is that less expensive ? " 

It takes more than the modicum of moral courage 
possessed Jay the average masculine customer to say 
" cheaper," in such a presence and place. 

" Not less expensive in one sense, perhaps, sir " — with a 
smile of compassionate patronage — " but in the end, the 
best." 

Darby does not look at the body-Brussels. He mur- 
murs that he may caU again. In sad truth he knows that 
he win not It is Joan's affair, not his, he discovers, and 
with a- wretched chuckle bom of pity and discouragement, 
he wonders what she will say when she comes to parlor 
cai-pets. She says nothing on the subject. If she has 
struck the reef she hoists no signal of distress. Her eye 
is brighter, her silent smile more significant as " opening- 
day" approaches. Papa, as is the duty and privilege of 
fathers who can do it, has given her a sum for furnishing. 
It is all that he can spare, and, as he thinks, all she ought 
to expend. Darby knows him too well to suspect that he 
has added to it, and Joan too well to dream that she may 
have asked for more. Expeditions and consultations with 
mamma mean only that the latter is liberal with advice 
and such manual aid as nobody but a mother can lend. 



258 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

The important day has arrived. Darby has not been 
admitted to the house siace their first -visit ia company, 
but takes a hall-holiday now, ostensibly for "moving." 

" We -will begin at the bottom," chirps his conductor, 
unlocking the basement-door. 

The floor of the tiny entry is covered -with linoleum, in 
a block pattern, buff-and-white, with sparse cubes of red. 

" It is prettier than oU-cloth, and cheaper," says Joan. 
The word 1^ no terrors for her. " Moreover, the smeU 
is not so disagreeable." 

The strip of gay Venetian carpeting on the stairs is 
woven in the same colors. 

" It is not easy to make a basement dining-room cheer- 
ful," continues the little mistress, wamingly, her hand on 
the knob of that door. "I did think of using the back- 
parlor as an eating-room. But there was no dumb-waiter, 
and no china-closet on that floor, and, as mamma says, 
food wiU atti?act flies, do what you vdll, and in warm 
weather the room would have to be kept so dark on that 
account that we could not sit in it except at meal- times. 
And it is a convenience to have eating-room and kitchen 
on the same floor. So I did my best." 

It is a seemly best in Darby's eyes. Fortunately, the 
room is weU lighted by two front windows of good size. 
So much of the floor as is visible^that is, a strip eighteen 
inches wide next to the walls — is stained Spanish brown. 
A large rug in a warmer shade of red-brown covers the 
middle of the floor. Darby stoops to. examine what looks 
to him like Turkish toweUing, the deep fringe at two ends 
corroborating the impression. 

" Such a ' find ' ! " Joan relapses into girhsh slang in her 
glee. " Of course we could not think of velvet or Bnis- 
sels for any room." Darby pinches a comer of the rug 
in his wince. "And tapestries are so gaudy, as a rule! 



NEST-BUILDING. 259 

So I asked boldly for ingrain ! "I told mamma we had 
resolved that our Ufe should be even-threaded aU through. 
No veneer, no shams, and no sophistries. I explained 
frankly to the carpet-merchant that we must furnish 
economically and wanted to furnish prettily. Like the 
duck he is, he brought out this. It is ingrain in one 
color, and unfigiu'ed, a yard wide, alike on both sides, 
wears forever, cost one doUar and ten cents a yard, and 
needs no making up. He told me how to do it. I sewed 
the breadths together, fringed out and " serged " the raw 
ends, and left the selvage sides just as they were. The 
rug can be lifted and shaken every day, and should be 
turned often to make it wear evenlj' and prevent the 
edges from curling. Ten yards will go as far as twelve 
of Brussels or tapestry, that has but one wearable side.'' 

The table in the middle of the room is spread with a 
buff-and-white tea-cloth. The recess on each side of the 
mantel is filled with shelves of yellow pine rubbed with oil 
to a fine poUsh. They are breast-high, and the uppermost 
of each set projects an inch or more beyond the others. 
The. shelves nearest the window hold Joan's small acquisi- 
tions of ornamental china. A felt curtaiu, in color like 
the rug, with bands of buff laid on with feather-stitch, and 
hung from a ringed pole, is partly withdrawn. 

" That gilt rod is a bit of gas-pipe," twitters Joan. " I 
bought it from a plumber and gilded it myself. The cur- 
tain-poles on the next floor I had turned roughly, and 
covered them with black velvet, that sets off the brass 
rings finely. Here is another cheap device," lifting the 
buff cloth. "The wide felting used by rich people for 
underlying their damask table-cloths is awfully dear. I 
bought Canton-flannel, sewed it together in the middle, 
hemmed the ends, and spread it on, the wrong side up. 
It makes the cloth lie smoothly, look richer, and hinders 



260 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

it from wearing so fast "as it would on tlie naked table, and 
cost just eighty cents. I couldn't afford window-curtaLas 
here ; I think, too, they would darken the room too much. 
The buff linen shades must do for awhile." 

Pine shelves are fitted at the bottom of the sashes. 
Pots of ivy stand on these, and the flexile stems f oUow and 
drape the window-frames. 

A head of a setter-dog, done in charcoal and framed in 
yellow pine polished and varnished, hangs over the mantel ; 
water-color pictures of quail and snipe on the opposite 
waU. 

" You recognize my work ? " smiles the exhibitor. " The 
frames were fifty cents a piece. This,'' tapping the uncur- 
tained shelves, " is our buffet — our sideboard — meant for 
holding plates, knives, and forks between the change of 
courses. This "—she raises the cushioned top of a low, 
wide box, nearly six feet in length, filling the space be- 
tween the door by which they entered and the front wall 
— "is my linen chest. I shall keep here such napery as 
we have in daily use. I stuffed and covered it 1 " 

It is upholstered with carpeting like the rug. A square, 
fat pillow of buff-and-red-brown cretonne lies at the wall 
end. 

"A cool place for a nap on hot Sunday afternoons 1" 
says Darby. Joan claps her hands. 

" Just what I told mamma you would say ! When sum- 
mer comes I will slip on a buff Holland cover. Doesn't 
this room look really furnished — considering ? " 

There are but six chairs, walnut with cane bottoms, be- 
sides what we have described, if we except a clock under 
the picture of the dog, and an ice-pitcher and glasses on 
the " buffet " top. But Darby's warmth of speech is sin- 
cere. 

" I don't see what we could do with more furniture ! " 



NEST-BUILDING. 26 1 

"And nobody need know — we would die before we 
would whisper it,'' Joan fastens on his arm and grows yet 
more emphatic, her face and feet restless with mischief 
and happiness, " but the top of the table is plebeian pine 
— if the legs are genteelly turned — and a lame carpenter in 
a back street made the chest and shelves and picture- 
frames, and a German painter's apprentice stained the 
floor under my direction. I don't mind confiding to you, 
moreover, that everything in this room — except my scraps 
of china, of course, that I have been coUecting for years — 
cost just fifty-one dollars, eighty-seven and a half cents." 

Between dining-room and kitchen are two doors and a 
passage five feet long ; on the right of this, chiaa shelves 
behind a sUding glass door, on the left, a blank wall. The 
kitchen looks out upon a neat backyard. A couple of sta- 
tionary tubs are one flank of a sink, a copper boiler the 
other. Under it is a pot-and-kettle closet. The modern 
improvements are packed into the smallest possible space 
consistent with avaUableness. The floor is painted ; the 
range shining clean. Two tables and three wooden chairs 
— one of them a low rocker — compose the movable ftu-ni- 
ture. 

" A trifle cheerless," Joan admits, blithely ; " but when 
the fire is lighted it will look differeni Here is my mix- 
ing room ! " opening the door of communication with the 
small apartment cut off from the back halL 

A table is set against the soUtary window. Before this 
a rug knitted of woollen strips, warm, thick, and service- 
able, lies on the painted floor. A broad ledge runs along, 
one side of the room. Under it are a covered flour barrel, 
above which a square section of the ledge is hinged hke a 
trap-door. Several wooden buckets for holding sugar and 
other dry groceries are ranged in a hne with the barrel. 
From a row of nails over the shelf depend egg-beater. 



262 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

spoons — iron, wire, and wooden — toasting-fork, cake-turn- 
er, and a dozen other light implements. Bright tin-ware 
and kitchen-crockery are in neat array on the shelf, with 
pastry-board, chopping and bread-trays, etc. 

If Joan was content in the dining-room, she is jubilant 
here. 

"The dearest, jolliest, most fascinating little nook!" 
she aTers, perching herself on the coner of the table while 
she enumerates its charms. " In winter it can be warmed 
by opening the door. In summer the kitchen door will be 
shut while I am busy in here ; that leading into the haU, 
and the window, be opened. There need be no Htter of 
materials in- the kitchen, and on washing-day, when I must 
run down to toss up something nice for dinner, I shall not 
be suffocated by soapy steam. In this comer I hope to be 
queen. Mamma says no servant would keep it as orderly 
as I would ; that most young housekeepers make the mis- 
take of expecting such work from hirelings as they would 
do themselves. She told me to be careful always to wash 
the bowls, spoons, etc., that I have used, and put them 
bac£ in their places ; to brush up the floor and wipe the 
table clean when I have finished my work. She thinks 
one reason so many servants dislike to have the ' mis- 
tress ' in the kitchen is that she makes so much clearing 
up for them. She is a hinderance rather than a help. 
'Our girl' enters upon her duties to-morrow. She is 
young, and will need trainiag, but mamma says I ought 
to be able to do that, and it will be better and pleasanter 
for me to lead and instruct from the beginning than to be 
tutored by an elderly woman who is ' set ' in her way. 
That mother of mine is a wonderfully wise woman ! " 

" She has a marvellously sensible daughter," rejoins the 
three-month-old bridegroom, following her up the stairs. 

If he had been told that he would find the parlors laid 



NEST-BUILDING. 263 

with ingrain cai-pets, his pride as a home-owner and his 
taste would have revolted together. Yet such is the fact. 
The figureless fabric here is a rich, tawny tint, hke that of 
a bed of woodland moss on which successive frosts have 
fallen gently. Joan terms it " dark old-gold," and it is 
reHeved by a border of shaded olive and scarlet. The hall 
is carpeted to match, as is the mere closet above the mix- 
ing room dignified by the title of " hbrary." 

The walls throughout the house are " hard-finish." 
" We had to put up with it in the other stories," repre- 
sents the italical httle manager, " but I made a stand here, 
and talked the landlord into agreeing to put a cheap paper 
on the walls. He named the price he was w illin g to give 
and graciously permitted me to choose the pattern. With 
five of the eight dollars I had saved (from the sixty I had 
allowed for the dining-room) added to his Umit, I bought 
from James C. Munroe, 179 Devonshire Street, Boston — 
don't laugh — ' ingrain paper ' for these three rooms and 
the entry. It comes in plain colors, and has double the 
weight of ordinary wall-paper. Is not this creamy-brown, 
or brownish-cream, a luxury to the eye ? And it harmo- 
nizes perfectly with the carpet, without having a touch of 
the metallic yellow so trying to the complexion." 

A hat-rack with a small mirror set in it is hung in the 
hall ; a spindle-legged table that was Joan's grandmother's 
beneath it ; a bracket covered with birch-bark, on which 
is painted a thorny bough incrusted with lichens, is fast- 
ened on the wall between the front and back parlor doors. 
A gray trail of Spanish moss floats from it ; upon it a be- 
nevolently complacent owl stands guard, a crotched branch 
interwoven by a vireo's nest projects upward. Half-drawn 
pffrtieres of Turkey-red cotton hang in the parlor doors. 
They are lined with cream-colored silesia, and bands of 
pliv6-and-scarlet cretonne are laid near the top and bot- 



264 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

torn. Similar hangings drape the parlor windows, front 
and back. 

" The liaing tempers the red glare, and makes a cheap 
material look Kke one that cost twice as much," reports 
Joan. "When a room is properly papered, curtained, 
and carpeted, it may be said to be three-quarters fur- 
nished. I have long considered a parlor sofa a cumbrous 
monument to popular prejudice. I could write an essay 
upon ' The Sofa ' longer than Cowper's poem. It is ex- 
pensive, clumsy, and as inconvenient in a small room as 
an elephant in a horse's stall. Etiquette forbids men 
to seat themselves upon it while ladies occupy chairs ; yet 
the youth of the present day delights to establish himself 
thereupon. People ought not to lounge in reception and 
drawing-rooms. What is needed there is encouragement 
to conversation. As a seat, the sofa is like the glutton's 
turkey — 'inconvenient; being too much for two and not 
enough for three.' Here are my substitutes for the costly 
monster." 

She shows two wicker chairs, painted black and lightly 
gilded, which she has cushioned in the seats and padded 
at the backs; also three reception chairs, black-and-gLIt, 
the rush bottoms painted in stripes of white and scarlet. 
A Japanese stand and an ebonized cabinet were wedding 
presents, as were three fine engravings. A round table is 
draped with a cloth embroidered by another friend. There 
is an easy-chair upholstered in raw sUk, old-gold and black ; 
a bamboo easel (price $5) supports the largest of the en- 
gravings : a pale blue scarf of soft woollen stuff breaks the 
sharpness of one comer. Pale blue is repeated in a silken 
banner screen and a trophy of Japanese fans. On one end 
of the mantel is a clock ; a cluster of thistle balls, white 
and fluffy, are suspended by a scarlet cord from a gas 
bracket. Various pretty trifles, such as girls delight in 



NEST-BUILDING. 26S 

and gather to themselves by imeonscious attraction, are 
aiTanged "on stands and mantel A few choice books, the 
kind that suggest thought and discussion, rest on the 
table ; several unframed photographs help to cover and 
ornament the walls. A foot-cushion, pale blue, appliqu6 
with scarlet, lies before the easy-chair ; a square ottoman, 
stuffed to match the latter, is at the corner of the hearth. 

"Home manufacture," Joan remarks. "Except the 
turned legs." 

In the door- way connecting the parlors is a curtaui that 
Darby examines curiously. 

" Odd and oriental," is his comment. 

"Made of silk strips — cast-off ribbons and the like — 
sewed together as our grandmothers joined rags for car- 
pets, and woven into magnificence by John Kyan, 83 Bow- 
ery!" he is informed. "You will see the same in the 
door between the library and this " — passing into the back 
room. "I caU this our retreat, the heart of the home, 
your bower bi repose ! It is where you and I are to live 
and learn what home is ! I consider it my chrf d'ceuvre." 

She would say "the key-note," if she had ever heard the 
anecdote with which our sketch began. She made a mental 
cartoon of it, first of all, in entering upon her work of love, 
and has wrought the rest up to it. Darby puts out his arm 
to draw her closer to him as the reposeful hush, the heart- 
comfort of the pla.ce, steal into his soul. 

There is a lounge here. Joan had it made to order — 
half as wide again as the conventional pattern, with a long, 
easy slope at the head, and with no back — then covered it 
with cretonne ; old-gold and black picked out with scarlet. 
PLUows of turkey-red heap it into luxuriousness. A folded 
afghan falls over the head slope. There is a twist of red 
drapery about the frame of the portrait of Darby's mother 
over the mantel, a plume of pampas grass behind it. 
12 



266 COTTAGE KITCHEN. 

Screens of trellised ivy hide the view of the clothes-yard. 
A Shaker rocker is set near a basket work-stands An an- 
cient arm-chair, an heirloom, has been stuffed into plmnp- 
ness and comfort, and covered with cretonne like that on 
the lounge. At the left elbow is a round table. The 
sweeping cloth repeats the tiat of the waU-paper, -and is 
finished at the edges with deep scallops embroidered with 
scarlet sUk. A student's lamp — the porcelain shade of soft- 
est, most grateful green — a foot-rest in suggestive proximity 
to the chair, two or three magazines, a paper-weight, even 
this morning's newspaper, show without need of spoken 
hint where the tired master is to be most completely and 
happily at home. No two chairs in this apartment are 
alike. Most are low — all are comfortable. 

" I picked 'them up at odd times and places, and made 
a frolic of rigging them out," says Joan. 

She is no artist, but she is thankful for the measure of 
taste and skill that has enabled her to prepare the char- 
coal sketches Darby greets as old friends. " It all goes to 
help make home." 

The library bookcases are breast-high, and stocked with 
her books and her husband's. The shelves, hke those be- 
low stairs, are of polished yellow pine, and edged with 
notched strips of red morocco. Joan tacked them on with 
brass-headed nails, and fastened down with the same the 
red baize on the topmost shelf. On this are three plaster 
casts. A baize-covered table, and an office chair, a study- 
lamp, inkstand, portfoUo, and blotting-book, testify that 
work and not leisure is to bear rule here. A curtain of 
ohve felt, banded with scarlet, shades the one window. 

The bedroom floors are stained, and rugs of the invalu- 
able ingrain are laid down. In the guest-chamber are 
muslin curtains ; in Joan's own, cretonne. The floor of 
the bath-room is covered with linoleum. There is abun- 



NEST-BUILDING. 267 

dant store of sheets, and towels, and white counterpanes, 
clean, warm blankets, and no comfortables or bed-quilts, 
if we except a duvet, or couvre-pied, thrown across the foot 
of each bed. The furniture is of inexpensive native 
woods : in one room ash, in the other poplar. In the 
servant's chamber are an iron bedstead, a good bureau, 
washstand, and rocking-chair. 

In neither of the second-story bedrooms are there many 
ornament. Mamma's pupil sensibly reasons that the dust 
of sleeping apartments should be dislodged and expelled 
every day ; that china figures, and vases, picture frames, 
and plaques, and dried grasses, and Japanese umbrellas 
collect flying particles which Professor Tyndall warns us 
contain embryotic bacteria. If undisturbed they breed evil 
to human hves, and to get rid of so many myriads requires 
more time than our Joan can spare. 

Thoroughness and consistency are the leaven of good 
housewifery as of stable character. To unite taste and 
true economy ; to be content when the result reached is 
comfort and prettiness, with no incongruous streakings of 
splendor ; to sound a key-note that shall bring the whole 
composition within the easy compass of those who are to 
conduct it — this is to make the true best of one's self and 
the means at her disposal; to be honest and ingrain 
throughout. 



INDEX. 



PAO£ 

Introductoky Talk 1 

SOUPS. 

Soup and Stock-pots {Fa- 
miliar Talk) 9 

Msh Soups 15 

Catfish sonp 18 

Clam " 16 

" chowder 17 

Cod " 18 

Eel soup 20 

Fish " 15 

Lobster bisque 19 

Oyster sonp 16 

Vegetable Soups. 

Bean soup 24 

" and com sonp 25 

" " tomato soup 25 

Canned corn soup 28 

Green pea and potato soup . . 26 

Katherine's sonp 22 

Lenten soup, A 21 

Onion " 22 

Pea and rice purSe 27 

Peas, a puree of 26 

Potato soup 24 



PAOE 

Quick potato puree 36 

Tomato soup 28 

" and rice broth 27 

Turnip puree 29 

Meat Soups. 

Bone soup 30 

Chicken and corn soup 31 

Clear sago soup 32 

Family soup, A 30 

Giblet " 32 

Ham " 29 

Mutton broth 33 

Scotch soup, A 34 

Scrap " " 34 



MEATS. 



Familiab Talk , 



36 
52 



Beef, braised 53 

boiled with vegetables. . 52 

chipped 61 

corned 58 

" , pressed 59 

hash 60 

mode, ^ la 53 



270 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Beef, pie 58 

" " , potato crust for . . 58 

" roast 55 

" scalloped 57 

" steak 54 

" " and onions 57 

" stew 55 

" stew, Irish 56 

Mutton 38 



Mutton boiled, slioulder of . 

" brown stew of 

" minced, on toast ... 

' ' mince of 

" pudding (No. 1) 

' " (No. 2).... 

" roast, breast of 

" stew of 

" stewed, with dum- 
plings 

' ' summer stew of 



Porh . 



39 
43 
43 
44 
42 
43 
38 
89 

40 
41 

63 



Bacon and apples 65 

Barbecued ham 65 

Pork and beans 62 

- Pork chops 63 

Pork pie 64 

Pork and pea pudding 64 

' ' salt, and potato-stew . . 63 

" stewed 62 



Vad. 



44 



Calf's head 48 

" liver, larded 49 

" " smothered 50 



PAGB 

Calf's head spiced 51 

" " stew of 50 

Veal, stewed breast of 44 

" chops 47 

" cutlets 47 

" pie 45 

" scallop 45 

" savory stew of 46 



FAMILIAR TALK. 



COUHTKT BOAKDING. 



67 



CTiichen 73 

Chicken, boiled, and rice ... 73 

" brown fricassee of . 74 
" pot -pie, old -fash-. 

ioned 75 

" scallop 76 

" and egg scallop 76 

" smothered 74 

' ' stewed whole 73 

" Virginia stew of . . . 77 

EGGS 78 

Eggs, baked 78 

" boiled 78 

" breaded .: 80 

" cups 80 

" devilled 81 

" dropped 83 

" in the nest.,, 81 

" scalloped 78 

" scrambled 83 

" " with shad- 
roes 83 

" stewed 79 

" on toast 79 



INDEX. 



271 



PAQE 

Omdettes 83 

Omelette, baked 83 

" aim; fines Im-bes ., , 84 

" ham 84 

" plain 83 

" tomato 84 

SALADS 84 

Salad, beet 87 

" cabbage 84 

" celery 87 

" lettuce 85 

' ' lobster, crab, and hali- 
but 89 

" mayonnaise, dressing 

for 87 

" potato 86 

" salmon 88 

" tomato 87 

" tomato and lettuce .. . 89 

" water-cress 86 

FISH 89 

Clam-fritters 92 

Codfish, boiled (fresh) 89 

" " (salt) 90 

Cod fsalt), lunch or supper- 
dish 95 

Cold fish, how to use up. . . . 90 

Fish, fried 91 

Halibut, baked 95 

Herrings, Scotch 93 

Mackerel, creamed 91 

Salmon croquettes 94 

" fricassee of 93 

" pudding 93 

" strips 93 



FAMILIAR TALK. 
Table Manneks 97 



VEGETABLES . . 



103 



Asparagus 109 

Asparagus biscuit Ill 

" and eggs 110 

" pudding 110 

" on toast 109 

Beans , . Ill 

Beans, boiled (dried) 113 

" buttered 112 

" fried 114 

" Lima, and other shell. 114 

" Lyonnaise, 8, 113 

" string (fresh) 114 

" " (canned) . ... 115 

" stewed (dried) Ill 

" with white sauce. ... 113 

Beets 133 

Beets, boiled 133 

" Lyonnaise 133 

Cahhage 131 

Cabbage, boiled plain 131 

" scalloped 131 

Corn 119 

Corn, boiled 119 

" (canned) fritters 130 

" (canned) pudding 131 

" chopped and potatoes. 131 

" green, fritters 120 

" " pudding 120 

Succotash 121 



272 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Hominy 123 

Hominy, baked 133 

" boiled 132 

" croquettes 133 

" fried 132 

Macaroni 134 

Macaroni, baked 134 

" Bettina's 126 

" in Italian style .. 134 

" with onion sauce. 135 

" moulded 136 

Onions 133 

Onions, boiled 183 

" fricasseed 133 



136 

Parsnips, boiled *. . . . 136 

" fried 136 

" with white sauce . 136 

Peas.. 133 

Peas, boiled 133 

" canned, green 134 

" green, pancakes 134 

Pea puree on toast 134 

Potatoes 103 

Potatoes, browBied 104 

Potato croquettes 106 

Potatoes, fried 105 

" Lyonnaise 109 

" old, boiled 103 

" " stewed 103 

" puff 106 

" scalloped (No. 1)... 104 

" " (No. 3)... 105 



FAGE 

Potatoes, souffle 108 

stewed 107 

" (cold, boiled) 108 
" in gravy. . . .- 107 

stuffed 107 

whipped 104 

137 



137 

Eice, boiled plain 137 

" " and cheese 138 

" croquettes 130 

" giblet pudding 139 

' ' savory 139 

" " pudding 139 

" with tomato- sauce ... . 138 



118 

Spinach, boiled 118 

Squash 118 

Squash, boiled 118 

" scalloped 119 



Tomatoes 115 

Tomatoes, baked (canned) . . 116 
" (fresh. No. 1) 116 
" " No. 3) 117 
scalloped and corn 117 
stewed (canned) . . 115 
" (fresh) ... 116 
" and corn. 117 

135 

Turnips, boiled 135 

" mashed 135 

" stewed 135 



INDEX. 



273 



POREIDGE OP VARIOUS 
KINDS 137 

Porridge, crumb 139 

" Indian meal 138 

" Little Boy's 140 

" milt 138 

Miisli-and-milk 138 

Porridge, oatmeal 137 

FAMILIAK TALK. 

Maid-op-all-wobk 141 

CHEESE DISHES... 145 

Cheese cups 146 

" pot 145 

" pudding 146 

" sandwiches 147 

Welsh rarebit 147 



BREAD. 



148 



Bread, Boston brown 153 

" Graham 151 

" sponge 149 

" raised with sponge.. 149 

' ' without sponge 151 

Biscuit, bonny-clabber 154 

" Graham. 154 

" quick 153 

Light rolls 152 

Yeast 148 

Crackers, toasted 155 

Some ways of using stale 

bread 155 

Toast, buttered 155 

" cream 156 

" tomato 156 

" water 155 



PAGE 

Muffins, corn-bread and 

griddle-cake^ 157 

Bread-crumb cakes 163 

Cakes, buckwheat 161 

" buttermilk 164 

" flannel, without eggs. 163 

" Graham griddle 163 

" hominy griddle 163 

" Indian meal 162 

" mush 164 

Corn bread, boiled 160 

" " risen 159 

Gems, Graham 159 

Muffins, hominy 158 

" minute 157 

" risen, English 157 

Sally Lunn, Indian meal . . . 160 

(wheaten) 158 

Wafers 161 

Waffles .7 165 

Useful Bute for Mixing Dough 
and Baiter. 

PUDDINGS 166 

Apple dumplings (baked) . . 170 

" " (boiled)... 170 

" meringue 167 

" bread pudding 168 

" tapioca " 167 

" scallop 169 

" snow 170 

Batter pudding 179 

Bread pudding (boiled) 173 

" and raisin pudding . . 171 

" sugarless, " ... 171 

" lemon, " ... 173 

Berry pudding 181 



274 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Corn meal pudding 183 

" " hasty pudding ... 183 
" starcli pudding (baked) 176 
" " minute pudding, 177 

sauce for 177 

Cottage pudding 179 

Cracker " 174 

Fried hasty pudding ....... 183 

Graham minute pudding ... 177 
Lemon " ... 180 

Macaroni (plain) " ... 180 
" (haked) " ... 181 
Marmalade " ... 176 

Maude's " ... 166 

Rice pudding (baked) ...... 178 

" " (custard) 178 

" " (hasty) 178 

" " (tapioca) 178 

Koley-poley pudding 183 

Suet " (No. 1). 175 

" (No. 2). 175 

Tapioca '" (No. 1). 173 

" " (No. 3). 174 

Toad-in-a-hole pudding .... 168 

PUDDING SAUCES... 183 

Custard pudding sauce 185 

Hard " " 183 

Jelly " " ..... 184 
Lepion " " ..... 184 
Liquid " " 184 

FAMILIAR TALK. 

' ' KlTCHENlY-KIND " 186 

Stewed and Baked Fbtjits 191 

Apples, baked 191 

Apples (sweet) baked 191 



PAGE 

Apples stewed 191 

Cherries, stewed 193 

Pears (sweet) baked 193 

" stewed \ 193 

Plums and berries stewed. .. 193 
Quinces, stewed 193 

STEWED DRIED FRUITS. 193 

Apples dried, stewed 193 

Cherries " " 193 

Peaches " " 193 

Pears " " 193 

Pie-plant " 194 

JAMS AND MARMALADE. 194 

Apple Marmalade 195 

Berry jam 194 

Gooseberry jam 195 

Bed Raspberry jam 195 

Strawberry " 195 

Peach marmalade 195 

Quince " 195 

FRUIT JELLIES 196 

Blackberry and Raspberry 

jelly 197 

Crab apple jelly 197 

Currant " 196 

Grape " 197 

Quince " 197 



PICKLES. 



197 



Cabbage pickle 203 

Green " 197 

" Tomato pickle 199 



INDEX. 



275 



PAGE 

Peaches, pickled 201 

Plums, " 200 

Sweet pickles 200 

Walnuts or butternuts, pick- 
led 199 

Vinegar, raspberry 202 

Surplus syrup— how to use it 201 

CAKES 203 

Apple cake 209 

" filling for cake 209 

Berry shortcake 303 

" " breakfast... 204 

Cocoanut cake, with filling. . 207 

Cookies (No. 1) 212 

" (No. 2) 212 

' ■ ginger 212 

Corn starch cakes 215 

Cream shortcake 203 

" for filling cake 205 

Cream puffs 211 

Crullers 214 

Cup cake, old-fashioned 205 

Currant cakes 210 

Doughnuts 214 

Drop-cakes or Jumbles 213 

Foundation for jelly or 

cream-cake , . . . 204 

Gingerbread, soft 210 

" unity 216 

Ginger snaps 313 

Huckleberry cake. 208 

Mamie's cake 206 

Marble " 206 

Meringue filling for cake . . . 306 

Nut-cake 207 

Sponge-cake 208 

Transformed baker's cake . . 209 



PAGE 

CUSTARDS 216 

Baked custard 318 

Boiled " 216 

Cocoanut " 219 

Floating Island 217 

Rice custard 219 

Sago " 219 

Snow pudding 320 

Tapioca custard 318 

FAMILIAR TALK. 
Flies 331 

JELLIES AND BLANC- 
MANGE :. 226 

Apple jelly 228 

Arrowroot jelly 230 

Cider " '. . 226 

Jelly and custard 329 

" in oranges..., 327 

Lemon jelly 226 

Orange " 337 

Peach " • 339 

Ribbon " 337 

Sago " 330 

Tapioca " 231 

Elane-mange. 

Arrowroot blanc-mange 233 

Bird's nest 337 

Blanc-mange (plain) 331 

Chocolate blanc-mauge 233 

Coffee " 235 

Corn-starch " 333 

Easter dessert 236 

Farina blanc-mange 233 

Jaune-mange 336 



276 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Medley blanc-mange 334 

Pretty dish, A 335 

Tapioca blanc-mange 333 

Tea " 335 

BEVERAGES 338 

Apple tea 344 

Cafe ail lait 340 

Chocolate 343 

Coffee, breakfast 338 

" black 339 

" iced 343 

Cocoa-nibs or shells 343 

Lemonade 248 

" flax-seed 344 

" Iceland-moss . 344 

Tea 240 

" aiaEusse 243 



PAGE 

Toast-water, or " crust-cof- 
fee" 343 

PIC-NIC DISHES ... 245 

Beef-loaf 250 

Cheese sandwiches 249 

Chicken - and - ham sand- 
wiches 349 

Egg sandwiches 349 

Ham, boiled 247 

Sardine sandwiches 349 

Sweetbread " 348 

Tongue, boiled 348 

FAMILIAR TALK. 

Dish-washing 351 

Nest-building 355 



" To ikose who iove a pure dictiQn^ a kealtkful ione^ and thought thai leads up 
to ike kigksr and better aims^ that gives brighter color to some of the hard^ dullphases 
of life, that a'&oMeTts the mind to renewed activity, and tnakes one me7ttaUy better^ 
the prose and poetical works of Dr. Holland mill prore an ever new, ever ivelcomt 
source from luhich to draiv,^* — New Haven Palladium. 



(JomjplfpiF Mriiings of BF*3.(|.XtoII[anb 

WTTH THE AUTHOR'S REVISION. 
Each one vol., 16mo, (sold separately,) Price, $l.kS. 



Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons have now completed the issue of 
a New Edition of Dr. Holland's Writings, printed from new plates, Sn a very- 
attractive style, in artistic binding, and at a greatly reduced price. 

It is believed that the aggregate sale of Dr. Holland's Books, amounting 
as it docs to half a million volumes, exceeds the circulation of the writings of 
any other American author. There is not a single book of his which has not 
had an unquestionable success, and most of them have been in such constant 
and increasing demand that the plates were actually worn out 



ESSAVS. 
TITCOMB'S LETTERS, GOLD FOIL, THE TONES FAMILY, 

LESSONS IN LIFE, PLAIN TALKS, 

EVERY-DAY TOPICS, First Series, 

EVERY-DAY TOPICS, Second Series. A New Volume. 
POEMS. 
BITTERSWEET, MISTRESS OF THE MANSE, KATHRINA, 

PURITAN'S GUEST, AND OTHER POEMS. 

' NOVELS. 

ARTHUR BONNICASTLE, BAY PATH, NICHOLAS MINTURN 
MISS GILBERT'S CAREER, SEVENOAKS. 

16 Volumes, in a Box, per set, - - $20.00. 



Complete Poetical Writings of Dr. J. G. Hollands 

With Illustrations by Reinhart, Griswold, and Mary Hallock Foote, 
and Portrait by W^yatt Eaton. Printed from New Stereo- 
typed Plates, Prepared expressly for this Edition. 

One Volume, 8vo. Extra Cloth, - - - $5.00. 



^^ Dr. Holland ivill always find a congenial audience in the homes of culture and 
refinement. He does not affect the play of the darker and fiercer passions, but de- 
lights in the siveet images that cluster around the domestic hearth. He cherishes a 
strong felloiu'feeling with the pure and tranquil life in the -modest social circles of 
the American people, and has thus nvon his ivay to the companionship of many 
friendly hearts."—^. Y. Tribune. 

*#♦ For sale by all booksellers, or sent post-paid upon receipt of price by 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 

743 AND 745 Broadway, New York 



"Externally and internally the book ia a book of Beauty."— 

New York Evening Po" 

@$p I^QUsp {ppauiifuL 

By clarence cook. 



(trtTH OVER ONE HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS FROM ORIGINAL 

DRAWINGS BY FRANCIS LATHROP, MISS MARIA R. OAKEY, 

A. SANDIER, J. S. INGLIS, AND OTHERS : ENGRAVED BY 

HENRY MARSH, F, S. KING, AND OTHERS. 



A NEW EDITION. FRICE REDUCED FROM $7.50 TO $4.00. 



One voL small 4to, snperblr printed on snperfine paper, cloth extra 
(design hy Cottier), gilt top, $4.00. 



" The air of elegance and taste which first breathes upon us from the cover, and comes 
»6 with a spicy aroma from the title-page, pervades every feature of the book — paper and 
type, text and illustration — from beginning to end ; indeed, no work of the kind, which 
has ye* appeared In this country, quite equals it in a certain combination of richness and 
iimpUcity."— T:^^ A^. K Tribunt. 

"The text anc*. ^lustrations have also the unmistakable stamp of original investigation 
and independent feeling for the tasteful and refined in household decoration." — Tkt 
N. y. Times. 

*' The charm of it lies deeper than in paper surface and letter-press and graver's lines ; 
and wherever it goes it will educate, inspire and refine. '*-^7'-5# Literary Worlds 

** It is one of the most practical and useful books of its kind, and hits exacdy the 
wants of to-day." — Hartford Courant. 

" Mr. Cook's book — it seems as if any dwelling, no matter how humble, might make 
Itself to blossom with touches of real beauty by the following of some of his wise sugges- 
tions," — The Congregatwnalist, 

** The book is a beautiful one, and it will be a treasure in the hands of all who can 
appreciate the beautiful, and are asking the important question — * How shall we fumisb 
our homes ?"*-^C^rM^i(i« at Work. 

•* Mr. Cook is not a slave to any one style of furniture or furnishing." — Cincinnati 
Caxtt*. 

•* In the simple adoption of the means to the end to be reached will be found the true 
artistic elegance and comfort. We commend this volume to the perusal of all who are 
interested in making home-life beautiful/'— ^a//imf7rf Gazette* 



^^ For sale by all booksellers^ or sent, post-paid^ upon receipt oj 
\rice^ by 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, Publishers, 

743 AND 745 Broadway, Nfw York. 



WOMAN'S HANDIWORK 

IN MODERN HOMES. 

BY 
CONSTANCE CARY HARRISON. 

One Volume, 8vo, Richly Bound in Ilhiminated Cloth, with numerous Illustrationl 

and Five Colored Plates from designs by Samuel Colman, Rosima 

Emmet, George Gibson, and others. 

Price, $2.00. 



Mrs. Harrison's book combines <t discussion of the prin- 
ciples of design and decoration, practical chapters on 
embroidery, painting on silk and china, etc., with most 
helpful hints as to the domestic manufacture of many objects 
of use and beauty in house-furnishing, and also suggestions 
for the arrangement and decoration of rooms in the details 
of screens, portieres, the mantel-piece, etc. 



GRITICAI. NOTICES. 

•*A volume quite the most comprehensive of its kind ever published." — The Art 
Inierchfitt^e. 

** It is, indeed, the most comprehensive and practical guide to the amateur decorative 
arts that has yet appeared." — Arf Amateiir. 

"The work supplies a current need of the day, which nothing else has met." — Boston 
TravelUr, 

"Unquestionably one of the very best of its class that we have." — N, Y. Kvening 
Post. 

" Mrs. Harrison has grouped together in her book about as much useful information 
as it is possible to get together in the same number of pages." — Baltimore Gazette^ 

" Mrs. Harrison's book is one of the very few books on household art which can 
be unreservedly commended." — The World. 

"Mrs. Harrison's suggestions are within the reach of the most limited means." — 
The Critic. 

" Full of suggestions, descriptions, and illustrations, of the kind that fasc'nate all 
those whose chief joy is in making home beautiful and happy."— ^. Y. Observer. 

" Everything imoortant that relates to the furnishing and ornamentation of houses 
will be found in this work, which is rich in important information, and noticeable for its 
good taste, sound judgment, and practical wisdom." — Boston Saturday Eve. Gazette. 

" Mrs. Harrison seems to have included in her work instructions for every a:sthelic 
emergency that can arise in a household." — Providence Journal, 



*^ For sale iy all iooksellers, or sent, post-faid, upon receipt oj 
friee, by 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, Publishers, 

743 AND 745 Broadway, New Vork, 



^•.SS!i««&WK*\«i«>\«S^^^W«^^^ 



