
Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924073879375 



riY MOTHER'S 



COOK BOOK 



A SERIES OP 

Practical Lessons 

IN 

The Art of Cooking. 



BY 

MATILDA LEES DODS, 

01 tlie South fCcnsInitoa School ol Cookery. 



EDITED BY 

HENRIETTA DE CONDB SHERMAN. 



CHICAGO 
THOMPSON & THOMAS 



COPyXIGHT, 1908, BY G. P. PUTNAM'S SoNSi NBW YORK. 
COFVKIGHT, 1901, BY THOMPSON 8c THOKAS, CHICAGO. 



PREFACE 



Thi question that will very naturally be asked in con- 
nection with our volume is : " Why is such ^ work re- 
quired at all ?" 

Is there not already an abundance of books devoted 
to and exhausting the various branches of the subject, 
from the monograph which di^usses all the points and 
possibilities of cold mutton to the " complete housewife," 
whose " common sense " suggestions and elaborate in- 
structions rahge over all possible topics, from the currying 
of a lobster to the management of a husband ? 

To such a criticism we should reply that cookery is 
now accepted as both a science and an art. As a science 
it is of course subject to all the laws of natural develop- 
ment, while as an art it can also lay claim to the privi- 
leges of continued inspiration, and the disciples of to-day 
need not admit that all wisdom has died with the prophets 
who have taught in the past.. In sober earnest, there has 
been during the past few years a much more general re- 
cognition of the fact that the work of cooking, upon which 
depends so much of the comfort, and in fact the happi- 
ness of existence, cannot be successfully carried on at 
hap-hazard or in a " hit or miss " fashion. The interests 
imperilled are too serious and the results of failures too 
grave. It requires and demands careful, persistent study, 
and should utilize also all possible ingenuity and creative 
power that can be pressed into service. 

Originality of conception, thoroughness of knowledge, 



jhr PREFACE. 

'and precision of method may be said to be as important, 
for the practice of cookery as for the practice of medicine, 
and it is all evident that the niore fully these are called 
into play for the former, the greater the prospect of get- 
ting rid altogether of the latter. 

The due recognition, during the past decade of the . 
I proper position of this branch of human knowledge has 
led to the establishment of institutions planned to give 
instruction in the principles of cooking, and to further its 
higher development as a fine art; and. during the next 
few years we hope to see the number of such institutions 
largely increased. 

I was so fortunate a^ to obtain one of the earliest first- 
), class diplomas issued by the South Kensington School of 
' Gookery, B.-a.& with this in my possession,, and a definite 
purpose before ine of doing what was iii my power to fur- 
ther the knowledge of my fellow-women, and the comfort 
of ray fellow-men, I could no longer feel that my life was 
aimless, even though my work should have no higher 
" range " than liiat of the kitchen. 

It is pleasant to be able to state, as well for the credit 
of the school whose teachings I have carried out, as for 
my own satisfaction, that such instruction as I have at- 
tempted to give in Great Britain and this country, through 
lessons and practical examples with demonstraticn before 
classes, has been most cordially and favorably received in 
all quarters, and hks brought me very warm acknowledg- 
ments for practical services rendered. 

In the course of my work with classes, I have found 
that there was quite a general demand for a book that 
should embody with somewhat more comprehensiveness 
arid completeness of detail than was possible in any single 



I^REPACM. V 

course of lectures, the whole range of instruction, and 
should give the particular application of the general prin- 
ciples ; a book that should be not a mere stereotyped 
schedule of dinners, suppers and breakfasts, nor a de- 
pressing list of semi-intelligible recipes, but one that 
should present a comprehensive insight into the general 
rules for the intelligent preparation of food, and at the 
same time clearly describe the several means and pro- 
cesses of arriving at desired results. 

In response to such demand this volume has been 
prepared. Nothing has been included in it, of which the 
practical worth has not been thoroiighly tested, and it is 
believed that the examples have been so selected, that, 
although of necessity limited in number, they, demonstrate 
the whole theory and practice of the culinary art, and 
W^i make the reader familiar with the most approved 
methods and tine latest attainments therein. 

The purpose of our work is now set forth, although if 
the whole story were told it might be proper to show how 
the original cook-book grew from an onion, the veritable. 

", Piece of chalot 
Whicb she never forgot." 

But this touches the romance of the whole matter, without 
which nothing, however prosaic, is complete. With such 
prose and such suggestions of romance as belong to my 
subject, these pages are now submitted to the interpreta- 
tion of those to whom my book is most aflFectionately dedi- 
cated — the world-wide sisterhood oi Housewives and their 
Husbands, trusting that through its instrumentality all may 
be convinced that while Heaven still furnishes the food, 
the promethean fire of knowledge has redeemed th? cooka 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Sovn.... ; ..j I 

PURlis...' ..'. 12 

SHEU^nSR I6 

Fish ., 26 

Meats, Roast.. 34. 

Bon.ED ,.i 39 

Made Dishxs.' ...» 44 

Cold Dishbs 56 

Broiled and Fried 65 

Game 70 

Entremets 77 

Vegetables . . . . : , .* , 95 r 

Salads .' 117 

Croquettes '. 125 

Fritters 130 

SouFFxfs. 134 

Puddings -. 142 

Sauces 163 

Savory ; 1^3 

' Sweet.... 166 

' Ices, Creams and Jellies. .Nf 169 

Ices ».. 169 

Creams 173 

Jellies 178 

PiKS AND Pastries.... 182 

Pastries '. •••••. •• i^ 

Pies ....^185 

Bread and Cake. '.".' 190 

Bread > 190' 

Cake. ■• 197 

Breakfast DIshes 904 

Teas, Coffies and Chocolates 219 

Miscellaneous ..; 221 



THE ART OF COOKING. 



SOUPS. 

Brown Stock. — For this stock there will be required 
material in the following quantities : * 

Four pounds of the shin of beei^ four young carrots, 
four Bermuda onions, one small turnip, one-half head of 
celery, one-half tablespoonful of salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of white pepper-corns, one-half teaspoonful of black 
peppercorns. 

First, cutting all of the meat from the bone, remove 
the marrow, and break up the bone with a hammer. 

Put the meat and bone together in a large saucepan 
and pour over these five pints of cold water, placing the 
saucepan over the fire. 

Bring the water now quickly to the boiling point and 
skim off, when boiling, all of the scum that arises to the 
surface. Throw into the saucepan then the salt, which 
will bring any remaining albumen or scum to the top, 
when, skimming once more, add to the contents of the 
pan the carrot, turnip and celery all cut into very small' 
pieces. Before adding the onion blanch it with boiling 
water, to draw from it the greenness which produces in- 
digfestion, having done which, put it together with the 
pepper-corns into the saucepan and allow all again to boil. 

When this is done, draw the saucepan to the side of 
tlie fire, cover it closely, and allow its contents to simmer 



i sot/PS. 

slowly for five hours, at the end of which time the stock 
should be strained through a clean towel to remove the 
meat and vegetables, the juices and flavor of which have 
been extracted, and put away to cool for future use. 



Note. — ^Water boils at a temperature of 212 deg., and to boil 
meat in it for eating or to prepare stock, the water having been first 
brought to the boiling poiiit should be permitted to fall to a tempera- 
ture of 160 deg. to prevent the meat hardening. 

A second stock can be made from the meat and bones used for 
the iirst, by covering them again with cold water, adding some fresh 
vegetables, and bringing all to the boiling point ; allowing the pre- 
paration to simmer slowly thereafter for four hours. 

Clear Soup. — Material and quantities required: 

One quart of brown stock, the whites and shells of 
two eggs and as much salt and pepper as can be held 
between the thumb and finger. 

The stock iilust have been allowed to become quite 
cold, when it will have thickened, and set. Then, dipipihg 
the corner of a/towel in boiling water, wash the grease 
from the top. , . 

Now put the stock, into a saucepan and allow it to 
melt—a copper saucepan is preferable. Put the whites 
and shells of the two eggs into a small bowl, 'add to them 
one-half a gill of cold water and the salt and pepper. 

When the stock has melted add the eggs so prepared, 
and with two forkswhisk the whole briskly until it boils. 

The instant the soup boils cover the saucepan closely 
and draw it aside from the fire, and allow it to simmer 
for ten minutes. 

Then strain through a clean towel, taking care not to 
break the crust which the eggs have formed at the top in 
process of clearing, and it is ready to serve. 



KIDNEY SOUP. 3 

Note.— Maccaroni and Vennicelli Soap are made from this Clear 
Soap by simply boiling the maccaioni and vermicelli in water, put on 
cold, then patting them into the tareen and pouring the hot stock over. 

Kidney Soup. — Quantities and materials are to be 
used as follows : 

Two ox kidneys, two quarts of second stock, two 
tablespoonfuls of Harvey's Sauce, two tabl^spoonfuls 
mushroom catsup, one ounce of flour of rice, two ounces 
of butter, one grain of cayenne pepper and a little of 
black pepper and table salt. 

In preparing this soup the kidneys have first to be 
well washed in cold water, then after being thoroughly 
dried in a towel, they must be cut into thin slices. The 
butter i^ next to be put into a dry saucepan and heated 
until smoke begins to arise therefrom, the pieqes of kid- 
ney added and browned therein ; the flour of rice must 
then be put into a basin and be made smooth with a 
little of the stock, when the Harvey sauce is to be added, 
also the pepper, salt, cayenne and catsup, after which the 
Test of the stock is thrown into the basin, stirred iintil 
well mixed, and then the whole mixture poured over the 
kidney as prepared and placed in the saucepan. 

Now, putting the saucepan over the fire, stir the con- 
tents until boiling to prevent the flour lumping, and skim 
carefully meantime. After this boiling point is reached 
the saucepan must be drawn aside from the fire, tightly 
covered and allowed to simmer for two hours, when it is 

done. ~~~^ 

Note. — In browning meats of any kind the stock should be 
poured over them cold, that the brown which has been obtained may 
not be washed away in the process. 

Kidney especially should be cooked over a slow fire to prevent 
them hardening. 



4 SOUPS. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — The ingredients for this 
soup must be provided in the following quantities : 

One calf's head, five ounces of flour, five ounces of 
butter, one ounce of mixed spice, two Bermuda onions, 
two wine-glassfuls of sherry, five quarts of cold water, 
one lemon, one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, one- 
half tablespoonful of salt and two teaspoonfuls of pepper. 

The method of preparation is : First soak the calf's- 
head in cold water for an hour for the purpose of cleans- 
ing it of blood or such other remaining impurities as 
there may be, then after drying the same in, a clean towel, 
put it into''a large sauce-pan and pour thereon the five 
quarts of cold water. The sauce-pan is then placed 
dver a quick fire, and being carefully cleared of scum 
as it boils, which it should do speedily, the onions, mixed 
spices, pepper and salt must be thrown in at once. Hav- 
ing reached the boiling point and the flavoring materials 
been added, the whole should now be permitted to boil 
slowly until the meat will readily separate from the bones 
— a period Qf from two to five hours to be detenr^ined by 
the age of the calf— when the tongue is to be removed 
and skinnedi also the meat taken from the cheeks and 
both cut into small pieces to be presently used. 

The bones and head remaining in the saucepan, must 
now be permitted to boil four hours, at the end of which 
the liquor should be drawn off and strained, and the small 
pieces of mea!t remaining in tlje saucepan, must be col- 
lected, cut £ndy, seasoned with pepper and salt, t6 which 
add a little flour, and then combined with the two fresh 
eggs to give consistency to the mixture, rolled into small 
balls, and placed in the oven for five minutes in order that 
they may keep shape by being hardened. 



BROWN SOUP. 



5 



Now taking a clean saucepan let the butter be melted 
and the remainder of the flour stirred into it, when the 
liquor should be added and the whole stirred until it 
boils. 

The pieces of meat from the cheek and tongue pre- 
viously prepared must now be thrown in; and' all allowed 
to boil for ten minutes. The lemon's, thinly sliced, are 
to be placed in the tureen, together with the sherry and 
the balls and the catsup, over which the soup is to be 
poured, when it is ready for serving. 



Note. — If the soup is not sufficiently dark in color a little cara- 
mel may be added, the instructions for the preparation of which are 
given on page — 

'■ , I 

Brown Soup. — Materials and quantities: 

Three pounds of shin of beef, two and one half 
quarts of cold water, one ounce of butter, one ounce of 
flour of rice, one dessert spoonful of mushroom catsup, 
one dessert-spoonful Harvey's sauce, one teaspoonful of 
whole black pepper, one teaspoonful of whole white pep- 
per, one dozen cloves, one-half tablespoonful of salt, six 
drops of caramel, one carrot, one turnip, one-half head 6f 
celery and one onion. 

In preparing this soup the first thing to be done is 
the cutting of the meat from the bone, and the remov- 
ing of the marrow. Then the marrow and tjie butter 
must be heated together in a large saucepan, and when 
the smoke arises from theni^ the meat and bone must be 
put into the same and browned, and the vegetables cut 
into very small pieces and browned also. To this add 
the water in its given quantity and allow, the whole to 
come quickly to the boiling point, skimming carefully 



6 SOUPS. 

meantime. The salt, pepper and cloves, should now be 
thrown m and the whole allowed to boil slowly, for four 
hours when the liquor should Ije strained and returned 
to the saucepan. 

The flour of rice should now be put into a bowl and 
made smooth with the Harvey's sauce and catsup, then 
added to the strained liquor in the saucepan, and boiled 
together with it for ten minutes to prevent the flour of 
rice tasting raw. Just before serving add the caramel 
which does not require to be cooked, but is used for the 
purpose of giving the soup the proper color. 

G-iblet Soup. — The quantities and ingredients re- 
quired are : 

Two sets of giblets, three quarts of stock, two 
ounces of butter, one gill of slierry, two ounces of flour, 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one sprig of parsley, 
two bay leaves, one sprig of thyme. One grain of cayenne 
pepper, one-half a saltspoonful of salt and an equal quan- 
tity of pepper. 

The manner of making the soup is as follows : 

The giblets must be scalded and picked entirely clean 
of skin, and then cut into small pieces equal in size. 
When this is done, next melt the butter and brown the 
giblets to a pale brown in it. Then a,dd to them the 
sherry and one gill of the stock, after which let it cook 
slowly until the liquor is reduced to one-half the quantity, 
when the remainder of the stock must be added, also the 
parsley, thyme and bay leaves, and let all cook slowly 
together until the giblets are tender, the time of which 
depends upon whether' the giblets are of chicken or fowrL 

When the giblets are tender they should be removed 
and the liquor strained, which is to be thickened with a 



HOTCH-POTCH. j 

little flour, the flour first being made smooth with a little 
cold water, and then the whole is to be boiled one hour, 
after which the giblets must be returned to the liquor, 
the lemon juice, cayenne, pepper and salt also added, and 
all permitted to boil for five minutes. When it is done it 
should be dished very hot. 

Hotch-potch. — The necessaries and measures for 
this soup are: A neck of mutton, six lamb chops, two 
quarts of cold water, six young carrots, four young tur- 
nips, one head of lettuce, one tablespoonf ul of parsley, 
one pint of green peas, one ypung cauliflower, one half 
tablespoonful of salt, one small teaspoonful of pepper. 

The neck of mutton must first be washed thoroughly 
in cold water. It then should be put into the saucepan 
and covered with two quarts^ of cold water, placed over 
the fire, and when the water boils, skim it, and add the 
salt, allowing it to boil for two hours thereafter. At the 
end of this time it must be strained, the lamb-chop's, first 
cut in two, and then added, the turnips quartered and 
added and five of the carrots cut into thin slices and also 
added, and all allowed to boil together for three quarters 
of an hour. After this put in the lettuce and the parsley, 
which have been chopped fine meantime, the peas and 
the cauliflower, the flower of which only is used, the pep- 
per and the remaining carrot which must be grated, and 
let all boil slowly for twenty minutes. 



Note.— The heart of a joang cabbage may be added to tid* Map 
by penoiM teliihing the flavor of thia vegetable. 



SOUPS. 



SOUPS.— SECOND DIVISION. 

White Stock. — For this stock there, will be re- 
quired: one fowl, two pounds of veal, three quarts of cold 
water, one Bermuda onion, two leeks, one head of celery, 
two cloves, one-half tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of whole white pepper. 

To prepare this Stock, the vCal and the fowl must first 
be put into alarg^ saucepan and covered with the water, 
when it should be brought quickly to the boiling point 
that the scum may arise at once and be removed. When 
this is done the salt must be thrown in, after which it 
must be skimmed again, and the vegetables thrown in, 
the cloves and pepper also, and then the whole left to 
simmer slowly three hours. At the end of this time it 
should be strained through a clean towel and allowed to 
cool. 



Note. — The directions for clearing this ^tock, are to be found 
under the heading " Qear Soup," on Page 3, beginning "Put the 
whites and shells of two eggs," etc. 

Tapioca Cream Soup.— For this soup provide: 
one quart of white stock, two ounces of crushed tapicoa, 
tlie yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
one-half a saltspoonful of salt, and an equal quantity of 
pepper. 

The stock must first be brought to the boiling point, 
and as it boils, the tapioca should be sprinkled in care- 
fully to prevent its lumping, and when this is done, both 
allowed to simmer for twenty minutes. While the stock 
»i^d tapioca are boiling, the egg-yolks, the cream, peppef 



TURKISH SOUP— SOUP A-LA-REINE. g 

and salt should be put into a bowl and smoothly beaten 
together. Then let the boiling liquid cool a little, — two 
minutes will be sufficient, — after which put two tablespooa- 
fuls of it to the mixture in the bowl, stir it together and 
pour the whole into the saucepan, put all over the fire for 
two minutes, stirring meantime to prevent boiling, when 
the eggs will have cooked without curdling, and it is ready 
for serving, which should be done very hot. 

Turkish Soup.— Furnish for this : 

One quart of white stock, one-half teacupful of whole 
rice, the yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful, of jcream, 
one-half saltspoonful of salt and an equal amouift of 
pepper. 

In preparing this soup boil first the rice in the stock 
for twenty minutes. At the end of this time pass the 
whole through a wire sieve, rubbing such of the rice as 
may stick through with a wooden spoon, then stir it 
thoroughly to beat out such lumps as the rice may have 
formed, and return all to the saucepan. The yolks of egg, 
cream, pepper and salt must now be well beaten together 
and added to the stock and rice, and the whole stirred 
over the fire for two minutes, care being taken to prevent 
boiling after the eggs are put in, for reasons already given. 

This soup should also be served very hot. 

Soup &-la-Reine. — For this there will be required : 

One young fowl, one Bermuda onion, one and one- 
half quarts of cold water, one sprig of parsley, one bay 
leaf, one sprig of thyme, three gills of cream, one-half a 
dessert spoonful of salt, and one-half teaspoonful of white 
pepper, one-half dozen celery tops. 

Begin the preparation of this soup by putting the fowl 
into a. large saucepan and covering it with the given 



lO SOUPS. 

quantity of water. When this boils and has been 
skimmed, add the vegetables and the herbs, also the pep- 
per and salt^ and allow the whole to boil slowly for one 
hour. After boiling this length of time, the fowl must 
be taken out, the white meat cut from the' breast, and put 
aside to be used later. This being done, return the fowl 
to the saucepan and let it boil for two hours longer, then 
draw off the liquor and strain it through a sieve. Take 
now the white meat and chop it very fine, or pound it 
in a mortar as may be most convenient, mix well with it 
the cream, pour the compound into the strained liquor, 
put the whole into a clean saucepan, and allow it just to 
come to the boiling when it is ready for use. 



Note — Bj celery-tops the small tender leaves at the top of the 
stalk are meant, which are delicious as a flavoring agent. 

Rabbit Soup. — Materials and quantities must be 
provided as follows : 

Two rabbits, three ounces of butter, two quarts of 
boiling water, one and one^half ounces of flour of rice, 
one grain of grated nutmeg, three Bermuda onions, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of \a teaspoonful of pepper. 

Preparatory to the making of this soup the rabbits 
should be soaked for an hour in strong salt and water for 
the purpose of draining out the blood and also taking 
from them the strong, wild, gamey flavor peculiar to 
them ; then cut them into pieces convenient for the sauce- 
pan, and wash them well in boiling water to whiten the 
meat. 

Now put them so prepared, into the saucepan and pour 
the two quarts of boiling water over them, adding the 



MULLIGA TA 1¥N£ Y SO UP. 1 1 

onions, pepper and salt, and allow all to boil, until the 
meat of the game will separate readily from the bone. 

In a separate saucepan then melt the butter, stir into 
it the flour of rice, and strain the liquor from the rabbits 
into it. Add to this the nutmeg and cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes. When it is ready for serving. 



Note — In departing from the usual mode of using either cold 
water or cold stock as above, it is to be noted that the boiling water 
is here used to keep the meat from darkening, which it has a ten- 
dency to do. 

Note — If it should be desired, the small, nice pieces of meat may 
be added to this soup, and also a soup of squirrel may be made after 
this same method. 

Miilligata'wney Soup. — Materials and quantities: 
one fowl, two quarts of cold water, two onions, two ounces 
of butter, two ouiices of flour, one tablespoonful of curry- 
powder, one teaspoonful of sugar, one-half teacupful of 
whole rice, one desserts poonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
whole white pepper. 

Begin this preparation by first covering the fowl with 
the two quarts of water, and bring it to boiling over a 
quick fire. When it boils up and has been skimmed, add 
the pepper-corns, salt and onions, then boil slowly until 
the meat of the fowl becomes tender. Now removing the 
fowl from the saucepan, cut the meat from the breast and 
legs, making the same into small pieces to thicken the 
soup with later, and return the bones and remaining fowl 
to the stock, when all must be allowed to boil for one 
hour longer, and then strained. The butter has then to 
be melted in a fresh saucepan, and the flour, curry-powder 
and sugar added, with which put the strained stock, and 
whole rice, and boil the whole for twenty minutes. 



12 SOUPS. 

Just before serving add the small pieces of chicken 
cut from the breast and legs, andsiend to table very hot. 

Oxtail Soup. — Ingredients to be used in the follow- 
ing proportions: two oxtails, two quarts of second stock, ten 
cloves, one teaspoonful of pepper-corns, one dessert spoon- 
ful of salt, one large carrot, one turnip. 

First cut the oxtails into pieces about two inches in 
length, wash them well in cold 'water, put them together 
with the stock into a saucepan, and bring quickly to the , 
boiling point. When boiling, skim well and add the salt, 
also the pepper-corns and cloves secured in a piece of 
muslin or bag, after which allow it to boil slowly for two 
hours. Then the carrot and turnip should be cut into 
dice, or with a French cutter into balls, and added to the 
soup, boiled therein half an hour, when removing the 
cloves and pepper-corns, the soup is ready for use. 

PUREES. 

Furde a,-la-Oo?id6.— For this will be required: one 
pint of haricot beans, three pints of white stock, one car- 
rot, one small turnip, one Bermuda onion and a bouquet 
gam^e, two ounces of butter, one-half pint of cream, two 
tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce. 

The beans must have' been soaked over night in 
cold water, and when ready to begin the preparation of 
the pur6e, the w^ter must be drained of^ and the soaked 
beans put on to boil in the stock. 

When the stock boils, the vegetables, the bouquet ' 
garnfee and the butter must be added, and these togethei 
allowed to boil for two hours, when it should be taken 
from the fire and passed twice through a fine sieve. The 
cream and the tomato sauce should now be put in, also 



PVR£e Of GREEN PEAS-^TOMA TO PUR$R. 13 

the pepper and salt, of which one-half saltspoonful of each 
is sufficient, and the whole be brought to the boiling 
point, great care being taken to take it from the fire the 
instant this point is reached or the cream will curdle and 
the dish be spoiled. 



Note. — Tq prepare a ' bouquet ganufe '' tie a mprsel of celery and 
a sprig of thyme into a bay leaf. 

The small dry white bean, such as is commonly used for baking, 
may be used in making this puree. 

Purge of G-reen Pease.— Take for this : 

One quart of shelled peas, one and one-half pints of 
white stock, one Bermuda onion, two ounces of butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of cream, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
one-half saltspoonful of salt and an equal amount of 
pepper. 

Put first the peas, the onion and the stock into a 
saucepan and boil them together twenty or thirty minutes, 
after which pass the whole through a sieve, in order that 
the stock may become smoothly thickened with the peas 
and the skins removed. Add then to this mixture the 
cream, the butter and the sugar, and let all be brought to 
the point of boiling, keeping in mind that the cream has 
been added and will curdle if permitted to remain upon 
the fire an instant too long. 

Season now with the pepper and salt. And serve very 
hot. 



Note — The peas for this Pur^e should be very youi^ in order 
that the color of fhe dish may be a pretty bright green. 

Tomato PurSe. — For^this provide : 

One quart of canned tomatoes, one and one-half pints 



H 



SOUPS. 



of white stock, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, one gill of cream, one-half salt- 
spoonful of salt and as much pepper. 

In preparing this purte begin with boiling the toma- 
toes and the stock together for three quarters of an hour. 
Pass both then through & fine sieve, and while straining, 
melt in the saucepan the butter, into which stir the flour, 
and returning the strained liquor then to the saucepan, 
stir all together until it boils. 

Now add the sugar, the pepper and the salt, and pour 
the purge into the tureen, after which add the cream 
which if otherwise done, will be almost certain to curdle 
with the sour of the tomatoes. 

PURfiES.-^ECOND DIVISION. 

Asparagus Purde.— For this there will, be re- 
quired : 

One bundle of asparagus, five ounces of butter, one 
and one-half ounces of flour, three pints of white stock, 
one-half pint of cream, one-half saltspoonfUl of salt and 
the same quantity of pepper. 

The asparagus has first to be treated by breaking off 
the tender tips and putting them aside, then blanch the 
remaining pieces in boiling water, drain them thoroughly, 
and place them in a saucepan with the butter and flour. 
Stir all together for five minutes, taking great cate to pre- 
vent browning, then add the stock and let all boil slowly, 
until the asparagus is tender. When this is accomplished 
pass the whole through a fine sieve, and returning it to 
the saucepan allow it to simmer for twenty minutes, after 
which add the remaining three ounces of butter. Boil 
the cream in a separate saucepan and add just before 



TVKmP FURiE— POTATO PUrAe. 



15 



serving. Have ready in a tureen the asparagus tips, 
having previously boiled them in salt and water, and 
pour over the Purfee as soon as the cream has been added 

Tiimip Fur€e.— ^Materials to be used in the fol^t 
lowing quantities : 

One and one-half pounds of turnip, one ounce of 
flour, three pints of white stock, three ounces of rice, three 
ounces of butter, one-half pint of double cream, one-half 
saltspoonfal of sdlt, and an equal quantity of pepper and 
sugar. 

Blanch the turnips with plenty of boiling water to 
keep them white, then soak them in cold water for one 
hour. Melt in a saucepan Itwo ounces of butter, stir into 
this the flour and two pints of the white stock. Stir the 
compound now until it boils and then put in the turnips, 
pepper, salt and sugar, having well drained and dried the 
turnips after taking them from the water. This must 
simmer until the turnips are tender, when it should be 
passed through a sieve and the remainder of the stock 
added, bringing all again to the boiling point. The rice 
should now be washed well and boiled in two quarts of 
water for twenty minutes, when the water should be well 
drained from it and the rice placed in the tureen, the 
pur^e poured over it, adding then the cream and the 
remaining ounce of butter, stirring all until the butter 
melts. When it is ready for immediate serving. 



Note. — The tnmips must be weighed after being pared, and 
should always be pared thickly as the outside is always bitter. 

Potato Furie. — For this should be furnished : one 
pound of potatoes, one Bermuda onion, two leaves of 
celery, one and one-half pint of whole stock, one gill of 



i6 soOPs. 

single cream, one ounce of butter, one-half saltspoonful 
of salt, and the same amount of pepper. , 

So provided, put into the saucepan the potatoes, pared 
and sliced, the celery, onion and butter, stirring all over 
the fire for five minutes, taking care that they do not dis- 
color. Add now one pint of stock, and let it boil slowly 
until the potatoes are cooked done, then pass all through 
a sieve, using the remaining one-half pint of stock hot, to 
prevent the gluten of the potatoes from stiffening and 
clogging in the sieve. The saucepan should then be well 
washed ajid the pur^e returned to it, the cream, pepper 
and salt added, and stirred until it boils. 

This should be served with fried bread or asparagus 
tips, arrangitig either in the tureen as before directed, and 
pouring the pur^e over. 



Note. — B;^ single cream, that is meant which arises in twelve 
hours. Double cream arises in twenty-four hours, and cream for but- 
ter in forty-eight hours. , 

General Notes on Pur&s. — These purees are intended to suf- 
fice for serving four persons, and the apparent inequality of liquids 
used will be found to correspond with the different lengths of time for 
boiling which is, of course, the reducing process. 

If it should happen that the purde is thickened unduly by boiling 
too quickly, this fault may be remedied by addittg more of the stock 
while it is being passed through the sieve. 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 

Oyster Soup a-la-Reine.— One quart of oysters, 
one pint of white stock, one-half pint of cream, one and 
one-half ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one blade of 



OLAM CffO WDER. \ ; 

mace, one grain of cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt, and 
half as much pepper- 
Drain first the liquor from the oysters, and putting the 
liquor over the fire, bring it to the boiling point. 

In a separate saucepan melt the butter, , stir into it the 
flour and pour in the stock. Add also the mac^ pepper, 
cayenne and salt, and let all boil for ten minutes, when the 
oysters should be added. Watch the oysters closely, and 
when the leaves begin to shrivel, pour the soup into the 
tureen and add thereto the cream, which must have been 
made boiling hot. 



Note. — The greac dtfficultj to be surmounted in making this 
soiip, is bringing the cream and liquor together without curdling 
^hich is obviated by boiling each separately. 

Clam Cho-wder. — For this is required*, fifty hard 
clams, twenty-five soft clams, three Bermuda onions, one 
fourth pound of pork, six potatoes, four pilot biscuits, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one dessert spoonful of 
chopped thyme, one fourth of a quart can of tomatoes, 
one dessert spoonful of salt, one dessert spoonful of pepper, 
one-half wineglassful of Worcestershire sauce, two ounces 
of butter. 

Begin by melting the butter in a frying pan, and put 
into the same when hot, the pork and the onion cut into 
very small pieces, and fry to a light brown. Put this pre- 
paration into a saucepan with the potatoes boiled and 
mashed, and add the pilot biscuits which must have been 
previously soaked in cold water. The chopped parsley, 
thyme and tomatoes should then be put in, also the 
clams, Worcestershire sauce, pepper and salt, and the 
whole now cooked for thirty minutes slowly. 



1 8 soi/ps. 

Note.— When soft dams are not available the number majr be 
made up with the ordinary hard clam, and if these should be large. 
It might be better to chop them, not too fine. 

When pilot biscuit are not to be obtained, hard crackers may be 
substituted. 

Clam Soup.— ^Procure: one quart of clams, one pint 
of milk, three ounces of butter, one grain of cayenne, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, 
one ounce of flour. 

The clams must first be strained and the liquor re- 
duced by taking one third or its quantity, and adding to 
It two thirds of water and the liquid so produced brought 
to the boiling point. Melt then the butter in a separate 
saucepan, add to it the fl,our, then the milk, and stir the 
mixture until it boils. Add now the pepper, salt, cayenne 
and clams, which should be cut into pieces, and pour 
over this the boiling liquor, allowing all to cool, until 
the pieces of clam are tender, probably ten minutes, and 
serve hot. 

Stewed Terrapin.— For this there will be required; 
one terrapin, seven ounces of butter, one and one half 
ounces of fiour, one.gill of cream, one-half pint of madeira 
wine, one grain of cayenne, one-half saltspoonful of salt, 
and an equal quantity of pepper. 

Begin by throwing the terrapin into boiling water, and 
boiling it until the claws will draw out. This will take 
from thirty to forty-five minutes. The shell should now 
be drawn asunder, which may be readily accomplished 
by inserting the fingers at the aperture of the neck. Pick 
out then the meat, exercising caution not to break the 
bladder, the gall, or the sand bags, which are of course, 
to be considered as refuse. 



FRICASSEE OF OVSTER. ig 

Meit the butter now in a saucepan, add the flour and 
cream, which must be very sweet, as it is so apt to curdle, 
stir carefully until it boils, when the pepper, salt and 
cayenne should be thrown in together with the meat from 
the terrapin. Cook this now for ten minutes, then draw 
it from the fire, and add the madeira and eggs, if the ter- 
rapin have furnished any. Serve immediately. 

Stewed Terrapin d, Superieure.-For this there 
will be .required: two terrapin, one-half pound of butter, 
yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, two teaspoonfuls of flour, 
one and one-half gills of cream, two wineglassfuls of 
sherry, one saltspoonful of salt, and as much pepper. 

Boil and open the terrapin, as directed in Recipe No. 
4. Put the butter into a bowl and beat it to a cream 
with the back of a wooden spoon. Add to this the yolks 
of the eggs, and beat both until thoroughly mixed, when 
the flour should be introduced by degrees, and the whole 
brought slowly to the boiling point. Take , then the 
pieces of meat from the two terrapin, the pepper and salt, 
and put all with the butter, eggs, and flour previously 
prepared and boil the whole slowly for three quarters of 
an hour. 

Care should be taken to stir from time to time, to 
prevent burning, while thus boiling, and at the expiration 
of this time, add the cream, letting it all boil for fifteen 
minutes longer, when it should be drawn from the fire, 
the sherry added. Serve at once. 

OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH.— SECOND 
DIVISION. 

Frioapsee of Oyster. — Procure for this : 



20 SHELLFISH. 

Twenty-five oysters, two ounces of butter, one ounce 
of flour, yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
one grain of cayenne, one grain cif grated nutmeg, a lump 
of salt the size of a pea, one-half a saltspoonf ul of pepper. 

Bring first the oysters in their own liquor to the boil- 
ing point, and when this is reached strain them and put the 
oysters, for the time, aside. Melt now in a separate sauce- 
pan, the, butter, and add thereto the flour togethef with 
one teacupful, of the strained liquor. Cook this for about 
two minutes, to give the mixture consistency, and then 
taking the saucepan from the fire, drop in the yolks of the 
eggs, one by one, stirring quickly until all is well mixed 
together. Add then the lemon-juice, pepper, salt, nutmeg 
and cayenne, when the whole should be placed again over 
the fire, stirred briskly to prevent boiling, and allowed to 
become very hot. Just before serving drop in the oysters 
andi serve on buttered toast. 

Fried Oysters.— Provide for this : 

Twenty-five large oysters, two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, four tablespoonfuls of cracker- 
dust, two eggs, four heaped tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pep- 
per, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Put the oysters into a strainer and drain them thor- 
oughly of their liquor. Then upon a plate, mix together 
the flour, milk, pepper and salt, into which preparation 
dip the oysters one by one, u^ng a fork and takiliig care 
not to mutilate the oyster. Place now upon a sheet of 
kitchen paper the cracker-dust,^ and putting the oysters 
therein, lift the sheet of paper by its opposite sides and 
roll them in the dust from side to side. The oysters 
should now bp removed to a plate an4 left standing for 



PRIED OYSTERS, 21 

half an hour in order that the juices may drain out and 
harden tlie cracker dust encasing them. Heat meantime 
in a stew-pan one pound of clarified fat, and when the 
blue smoke arises therefrom, throw in a peeled potato to 
keep it from burning. Upon a plate beat now the two 
eggs, dip the oysters one by one into them, then roll them 
in the bread crumbs, which has been made ready upon 
the kitchen paper, and with which has been put the nut- 
meg, and drop them lightly into the hot clarified fat, let- 
ting them remain therein for three minutes. Before serv- 
ing put them for a moment upon a clean sheet of kitchen 
paper that it may absorb the extraneous fat. 



Notes — It is important to avoid touching the oysters with tht 
heated hands as it makes them both tough and heavy. 

Clarified fat and lard boils at about five hundred degrees, which 
is more than double the heat of boiling water. At three hundred 
and seventy-five degrees the blue smoke arises from these heated 
substances which is the cooking point, and boiling fat or lard will 
bum to a cinder instantly anything that is put into it. 

The peeled potato prevents burning as it furnishes an object for 
the fat to act upon and so keeps it from growing hotter ; a piece of 
hard bread will answer the same purpose. 

A large quantity of fat is used in this recipe, but its extravagance 
is tempered by the fact that the same fat may be used over and over 
again until the heating property is exhausted, 

The reason for allowing the oysters to stand for thirty minutes 
after being rolled in the cracker-dust is that unless so permitted to 
harden, the egg with which the oyster is subsequently treated would 
not adhere but merely draw the cracker-dust off, making it thus 
necessary to pack these substances on with the hands and a heavy, 
soggy dish be the consequence. 

Fried oysters must be quickly cooked and as quickly , served. 

I^ecipe for clarifying fat on ))3fje— . 



22 OYSTEXS. 

Oysters &'la-Cr€me. — Materials and quantities as 
follows : Twenty-five large oysters, one dessert spoonful 
of chopped parsley, one heaped tablespoonful of bread- 
crumbs, three and one-half ounces of butter, one and one- 
half ounces of flour, a piece of onion half the size of a 
nutmeg, one gill of cream, one-half saltspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, one-half saltspoonful of pepper, a piece of salt 
the size of a pea. 

The oysters should first be boiled in their own liquor 
for five minutes, after which strained, cut into rough 
pieces, and put upon a plate. Season them then with the 
pepper, salt and nutmeg. Melt the butter now in a fresh 
saucepan, adding thereto the flour and the cream, and 
bml all together for two minutes. Take then the sauce- 
pan from the fire, put into it the oysters and the parsley 
and onion, chopped finely, as well. This mixture must 
now be put nicely into large, deep oystei' shells, the bread 
crumbs sprinkled over each, and put into a quick oven 
until browned over the top. 



Note. — ^As the oysters used do not always furnish the proper shells 
for this preparation, it is well to select from time to time,, the shells 
from oysters used in other ways, and scrubbing them well, make a 
reserve of deep shells for this purpose. 

Broiled Oysters.— There will be required for this: 
twenty-five large oysters, two tablespoonfuls of flour, four 
tablespoonfuls of milk, four tablespoonfuls of cracker-dust, 
two eggs, four heaped tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
two ounces of butter, and the juice of half a lemon, one- 
half a saltspoonful of salt, and an equal amount' of pepper. 

Drain thoroughly the liquor from the oysters, mix 
upon a plate th? flour, milk, pepper and sfilt. 



OYSTES CROQUETTES. 23 

Dip the oysters into this mixture, one by one, and, 
putting the cracker-dust upon a sheet of kitchen paper, 
drop the oysters into the dust separately, and roll them 
from side to side by lifting the paper alternately at op- 
posite comers. Return then to the plate, using a fork in 
the lifting, and let them stand for thirty minutes, that the 
dust may harden with the juice. Beat the eggs now until 
very light, and dip the oysters, one by one therein, then 
into the bread crumbs, and having lightly greased the 
broiler, put them into it, and broil for five minutes. 

In serving, put the butter upon them in small lumps, 
and squeeze over them the lemon juice. 



Note. — Before beginning the preparing of oysters in, this manner, 
it wonld be well to read the notes On fried oysters, page 21. 

Oyster Croquettes, — Materials to be used in the 
following proportions: twenty-five large oysters, one des- 
sert spoonful of chopped parsley, three and one-half 
ounces of butter, one and one-half ounces of flour, one gill 
of cream, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one egg, three 
heaped tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper and a piece of salt, the size of a pea. 

The oysters should be boiled in their own liquor for 
five minutes, then strained, cut into rough pieces and sea- 
soned with the pepper and salt. The butter must then 
be melted in a fresh saucepan, the flour added, also the 
cream, and all cooked for two minutes. Remove the 
saucepan now from the fire, and put in the oysters, pars- 
ley and lemon juice, after which mix all well together, and 
turn out upon a plate, leaving it to cool for one hour. 

When cool, form the mixture into small balls, beat the 
egg very light, and roll them in it, after which put the 



24 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 



bread crumbs upon a sheet of kitchen paper, roll each 
ball therein, from side to side separately, and fry in hot 
clarified fat or lard, for two minutes. 

Put them as taken from the fat upon a piece of the 
kitchen paper for a moment, to drain the grease off. And 
serve on a heated napkin garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

oysters and other shellfish.— special 
dish:^s. \ 

Crab Pie or Deviled Crabs. — Provide: two crabs, 
three ounces^ of butter, one ounce of flour, one gill of 
milk, one gill of cream, one teaspoonfiil of anchovy sauce, 
one tablespoonful of bread crumbs, one saltspoonful of 
pepper, one-half saltspoonful of salt. 

First throw the crabs into boiling water, and boil them 
for quarter of an hour. Pick the meat then from the 
shell, taking care not to break the shells, as they are to be 
used as natural bake pans for the pie. Cut the meat into 
irregular pieces, and put them in readiness for use, then 
taking a fresh saucepan, melt twp ounces of the butter to 
which add the flour, milk and cream, and boil all for two 
minutes. 

The saucepan must now be taken from the fire and 
the Anchovy sauce, pepper and salt, and meat from the 
crab added. When this is mixed thoroughly together, 
arrange it smoothly in the shells, sprinkle thickly with the 
bread-crumbs, putting the remaining but1;er in small pieces 
on the top of each, and brown in a quick oven. 

Lobster Outlets— Place in readiness : 

One lobster, one and one-half ounces of butter, one 
4 .ince of flour, one gill of cold water, pne tablespoonful 



LOBSTER CUTLETS 2$ 

of cream, one-half teaspoonful of lemon-juice, one grain 
of cayenne, one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of 
pepper, one egg, three tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 

The lobster should be put into boiling water for 
twenty minutes after which the head must be twisted off 
and the coral that runs down the back removed. Beat 
this coral with half an ounce of butter together in a mortar, 
and to make it perfectly smooth rub it through a wire 
sieve. Now melt in a saucepan the remainder of the 
butter, add thereto the flour and cold water, stir all until 
the water boils, and then allow it to boil two minutes, 

Take it now from the fire, and add the coral, cream, 
pepper and salt, lemon-juice and cayenne. When this is 
done cut the lobster into small, convenient pieces, and 
mix them well with the contents of the saucepan. Turn 
all now out upon a plate and set to cool for one houJr. 
When cool, divide into five pieces and form into cutlets,' 
similar in shape to cutlets of lamb, dip them lightly into 
the egg, which must have been well beaten, roll them in 
the bread crumbs, which must have been placed upon 
kitchen paper for the purpose, from side to side, and fry 
for two minutes in hot clarified fat or lard. When done 
put them to drain for a moment upon a clean piece of 
kitchen-paper and serve on a hot napkin, garnished with 
the claws of the lobster. 



Note. — The female lobster should be selected for this dish as it 
alone furnishes the coral which gives both a delicious flavor and 
beautiful color to the composition. 



26 PiSH. 



FISH. 



Filet de Sole, §. la Maitre d'Hotel.— Take for 

this : two large sole, two ounces of butter, one-half ounce 
of flour, four tablespoonfuls of cream, one-half teaspoon- 
ful' of letoon-juice, one dessert spoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, one-half saltspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of 
pepper. 

Begin this by reversing the usual rule for cleaning fish, 
skin the sole first and then filet it. To do this the skin 
must be loosened at the tail, the fish being held firmly to 
the table with a dry towel, and with the disengaged hand 
the skin quickly torn off. This process must be repeated 
as the sole has two distinct sides to be relieved of skin 
Make then an incision straight down the back with a sharp 
knife, and pressing the knife as closely as possible to the 
backbone, separate the flesh from it, removing the four 
filets. Roll each filet separately,^n the fashion of a 
rolled jelly-cake, place them side by side in a slightly 
greased tin, squeeze over each a little of the lemon-juice, 
to preserve their color, cover them with a piece of greased 
kitchen-paper and bake in a brisk oven ten minutes. 
While the filets are baking, cover the heads and skins of 
the fish with cold water, and boil for five minutes ; then 
melt in a small saucepan the butter, add to it the floilr 
and one gill of the liquor, obtained by boiling the heads 
and -skins, boil all for two minutes, stirring meantime, 
when it must be taken from the fire and the creajn, pepper 
and salt added. 

Put the filets now into a flat dish, pour this sauce 
around them, and sprinkle over each filet a little of the 
chopped parsley. And serve. 



SOLE A IV GRATIN 37 

Note — Laige flounder may also be prepared after this recipe with 
the same result. 

Boiled Codfish. — Provide: four pounds of cod, 
middle cut, one large tablespoonful of vinegar, one-half 
tablespoonful of salt. 

The codfish should be purchased the day before it is 
desired to serve, and permited to lie over night in salt. 
When ready to boil, fill the fish kettle two thirds full of 
boiling water, add to ihis the vinegar and salt, place th^ 
fish into the drainer, and plunge it into the boiling water, 
where it must remain for thirty minutes, boiling rapidly. 

Serve upon a dry napkin, garnished with parsley and 
with it * oysters or egg sauce. 



Notes. — If the cod should be of more than ordinary thickness, it 
must boil a few minutes longer, that it may become done through. 

This recipe may be used in boiling all large fish, except salmon. 
Salmon must be treated with this difference. It should be put to boil 
in tepid instead of boiling water, and thoroughly skimmed as it boils 
up. 

For boiling small and fresh water fish, use cold water, and the in- 
stant the boiling point is reached, remove the fish. In this way small 
fish may be prevented breaking in the kettle. . 

If not provided with a fish kettle which has the plunging drainer, 
it is better to wrap the large fish in a single layer of course toweling. 

Sole au gratiu. — This requires: one small sole, 
two heaped tablespoonfuls, of bread crumbs, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, two small mushrooms, one 
ounce of butter, a piece of chaldt the size of a bean, two 
tablespoonfuls of second stock, one saltspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of pepper. 

First the bread crumbs must be put into a dry tin, and 

* See sauces, page 163. 



28 FISff. 

browned to a pale brown in the oven. Sprinkle half of 
them, when prepared, upon a small baking tin, also having 
chopped one of the mushrooms, and half of the chal6t 
finely, scatter this with half of the parsley over the bread- 
crumbs. 

Skin now the sole,* and ciit away the head fins and 
tail. Place the fish over the preparation in the baking 
tin, sprinkle over it the remaining bread crumbs, chopped 
mushroom, chaldt and parsley, also the pepper and salt, 
put over all the butter in small pieces, and bake in a 
quick oven ten minutes. Serve on a hot dish, with the 
stock heated and poured around. 



Note. — If the chaldt or small French onion is not to be procured, 
a bit of the common onion may be substituted. 

Broiled Shad. — Frepaire: one shad, two ounces 
butter, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. 

Split the shad, when cleaned, directly through the 
back bone with a strong sharp knife. , Grease the broiler, 
slightly, place the fish between its leaves, and broil over 
a quick, clear fire, for ten minutes. When done, remove 
quickly from the broiler, dress with the butter, pepper 
and salt, and send it to the table as hot as possible. 

The dish inay be garnished with lemon quarters, and 
a sprig of parsley at either end. 



Note. — All classes of broiling fish, may be treated after this re- 
cipe. 

Stuffed Haddock.— Provide : one large haddock, 
two ounces of beef suet, three tablespoonfuls of bread* 

* See directions for skinning sole, page 36. 



fiSIEP SMELTS. 



ig 



crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped thyme, one dessert 
spoonful of chopped parsley, ope egg, one saltspoonful 
of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper. 

The haddock must be thoroughly dried after cleaning 
and the tail and fins cut off leaving the head. Make a 
stuffing by mixing two tablespoonfuls of the bread crumbs 
with the parsley, thyme, pepper and salt into wliich drop 
the egg to give the dressing consistency. Pack this stuff- 
ing snugly into the stomach of the fish, sew the sides 
together with needle and- thread, place it in a greased 
baking pan, dampen it over with milk or egg, sprinkle 
over it the remainder of the bread crumbs and bake three 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven, taking occasion 
to baste from time to time with the drippings. 



Note — To bake evenly the fish should stand in the pan in the 
position which it naturally takes in the water, and this may be ac- 
complished by placing a long skewer first through the tail of the fish, 
next through the centre of the body and lastly through the head. A 
strong cord passed in the same manner through the fish and drawn 
taut will serve the purpose. 

Salmon, trout, sea bass, and shad may be done also after this 
recipe. 

Fried Smelts. — One dozen smelts, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. 

Take first the flour and the bread crumbs and place 
them upon separate sheets of kitchen paper. Mix with the 
bread crumbs the salt and pepper, when the fish have been 
thoroughly prepared* dip them one by one into the flour 
for the purpose of drying them. Beat now the eggs until 
very light and roll the fish one by one therein, place them 
then into the bread crumbs, rolling each from side to side 



antil well covered. Throw the fish, thus prepared, into 
smoking hot clarified fat or laxd and cook for five min- 
utes. Garnish with parsley and serve in a folded napkin. 



Note — ^All pan fish including brook trout, may be treated in this 
way. 

Note — White bait is cooked by simply being thrown into hot 
lard just as they are taken from the water and cooked for two minutes. 



FISH— SECOND DIVISION. 

Pish k-la-Russe. — Provide for this : one-half pound 
of fiour, one-quarter of a pound of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of yeast powder, three eggs, one-half teacupful of 
boiled rice, one pound raw fish, one gill of cold water, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. 

Put the Hour upon a mixing board and with it a little 
salt and the yeast-powder, rubbing all together. Make 
this into a light dough with the cold water and the white 
of one egg whipped to a stiff froth. Knead the dough 
lightly and roll out as thinly as possible. Spread upon 
this paste one-third of the butter, fold it in three layers, 
and again roll out thinly, spread upon it the second part 
of butter, and repeat the process of folding and rolling. 
Now spread on the last piece of butter and refold it in 
the same manner. 

Roll the crust once again into a square, place in the 
centre of it the boiled rice, two of the eggs, which must 
have been hard boiled, also the fish, sprinkle over this the 
remaining salt and t^e pepper, wet the edges of the crust 
with the yolk of egg, fold it over squarely, brush the 
entire surface over with the yolk of egg, and place it 



FISIt CAKkS. jt 

first in a quick oven for ten minutes when it should be 
changed to a cooler part of the oven, to prevent its brown- 
ing too quickly and allowed to bake three quarters of an 
hour. 



Note — The quantity of water given cannot be imperative for the 
reason that the amount to be used is determined by the amount of 
gluten in the flour which is never equal in different brands. 

Any kind of fish may be used for this preparation so long as it is 
of a kind to be boned and skinned, but filets of sole, flounder or had- 
dock will be found most satisfactory. 

Fish Cakes. — For these will be required: one pound ' 
of cold boiled fish, one pound of raw potatoes,' two ounces 
of butter, two eggs, four heaped tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one grain of cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Separate the skin and bone from the flesh, with two 
forks, and put the fish, cut into irregular pieces, into a 
large bowl. Boil the potatoes, putting a little salt into 
the boiling water, place a sieve over the bowl containing 
the fish, put the potatoes while hot into the sieve, and rub 
them through over the fish, with the back of a wooden 
spoon. The pepper, salt, and cayenne, should now be 
added, drop in also the yolks of the eggs, and the butter, 
niix together thoroughly, and form the mixture into round 
flat cakes. ' 

Beat then the whiles of the eggs sufiiciently to break 
the albumen, dip the cakes therein, place the bread 
crumbs upon a sheet of kitchen paper, and roll the cakes 
separately in it. They must now be thrown intoi hot 
clarified fat or lard, and cooked for three minutes, when 
they may be transferred to a sheet of kitchen paper to re- 



32 FISH. 

move any particles of fat, that may have clung to the 
surface. Serve garnished with parsley a.nd very hot. 



Noi X, — ^Wben fresh fish is not available, salt .cod or oth^ fish 
may be substituted, leaving out of course the salt, and picking the salt 
fish to shreds and washing through numerous waters, until sufficiently 
freshened. When salt fish is used, it should be carefully dried after 
freshening, by putting it into a clean towel, and wringing until mois- 
ture will no longer exude. 

Turbot a.-la-Creme. — Materials as follows: one 
pound of cold boiled turbot, two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of flour, one ounce of grated cheese, one-half pint 
of milk, one gill of cream, one saltspoonful of grated nut- 
meg, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. 

Remove the bone and skin of the fish, and place it, 
upon a flat dish, cut into irregular pieces. Melt in a 
saucepan, the butter, stirring in the dry flour, to which 
add by degrees the milk, stirring constantly, to prevent 
the flour from lumpitig, until it boils. When boiling add 
the cream, a little of the pepper and salt, allow all to 
cook for two minutes, after which pour the mixture over 
the pieces of fish in the flat dish. Sprinkle over this, the 
grated cheese, the remainder of the pepper and salt, and 
the nutmeg, place the dish into a moderate oven and bake 
for ten minutes. 



Note. — Turbot done in this manner must be prepared in the dish 
in- which it is to be sent to the table, as it cannot be moved. 

Salmon Pie. — For this will be required two pounds 
of salmon, one fourth pound of bread crumbs, one tablci 
spoonful of chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, two 



POTTED HALlSUT. 33 

eggs, one gill of cold water, one teaspoonful of peppen 
one teaspoonful of salt. 

First mix well together the chopped parsley, bread 
crumbs, the pepper and the salt, and put a layer of this 
into the bottom of a flat dish. The salmon must then be 
cut into thin slices and a layer of it put next to the bread 
crumbs and parsley. In this way alternate layers must 
be placed in the dish until all of the material is used; then 
beat until very light the two eggs, add to them the water, 
and pour this mixture over the dish already arranged. 
Place upon the top of this, the butter in small pieces and 
bake in a moderate oven three quarters of an hour. 



Note. — ^Floundei, haddock and halibut may also be done in this 
way. 

Potted Halibut. — For this provide: two pounds of 
halibut, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of black 
pepper,* one-half teaspoonful of spice-for-potted-meats, 
one-half teacupful of vinegar, one-half teacupful of bass ale, 
one teaspoonfnl of tarragon vinegar, one ounce of butter. 

Lay the fish in layers in a deep dish, putting between 
each layer a little of the spice and pepper and salt, press 
the contents well down in the dish, then mix well together 
the vinegar, bass ale and tarragon vinegar and pour this 
composition over the halibut. Place the butter in small 
pieces over the top, and bake in a moderate oven, for 
thirty minutes. 

*NOTE. — The spice for potted meats is composed of the follow- 
ing ingredients thoroughly mixed. 

One ounce of ground cloves, one ounce pulverized mace, one ounce 
of Jamaica pepper, one ounce of grated lemon-rind, one-fourth ounce 
o£ cayenne, one grated nutmeg. 



j4 ^EA tL 

Kedgeree. — For this will be required: one pound 
of cold boiled fish, two ounces of butter, two eggs, one 
teacupful of rice, one teaspqonful of curry powder, one 
saltspooiiful of salt, one-half saltspqonful of pepper. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, and the rice for a quarter 
of an hour. Chop the eggs into irregular pieces ; and 
removing the skin and bdne of the fish, melt the butter in 
a saucepan, and add thereto the hard boiled eggs, the 
fish and rice. Stir all now together, over the fire, until it 
is very hot, taking care that the mixture does not bum, it 
. being very dry and apt to spoil, since the only moisture 
in it, is the butter. 

Add, just before serving, the curry-powder, pepper, 
and salt, and piling it very high in the middle of a hot 
dish, garnish the preparations with a little fresh parsley, 
and serve very hot. 



Note — Instead of garnishing this dish with sprigs of parsley, the 
parsley may be chopped and sprinkled over the top. 



MEATS— FIRST DIVISION. 

ROASTS. 

Roast Beef. — Six pounds of sirloin beef, one-half 
tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonfiilof pepper, one ounce 
of butter, one-half ounce of flour, one-half pint of second 
stock. 

Put the meat into a dry oven-pan, and then into a hot 
oven for ten minutes, that the albumen may form, closing 
up the pores of the beef and confining thus th? juices. 



ROAST TURKEY. 



35 



Allow the oven then to cool a little and continue roast- 
ing with a moderate heat, giving fifteen minutes to each 
pound of meat, and fifteen minutes over — which is one 
hour and three-quarters for a roast of this size. As 
soon as the fat is discharged from the meat into the pan, 
basting or moistening with this natural gravy should be 
commenced and continued at frequent intervals during 
the entire time of roasting. At the end of the specified 
roasting time, take the meat from the oven, put it on a 
hot platter and sprinkle over it the salt. Pour the grease 
now out of the oven-pan, as it is not to be used for the 
gravy, and put the stock into the pan, both that it may 
become brown and partake of the flavor of the roast ; 
then melt in a fresh saucepan the butter, stir into it the 
dry flour, add the pepper and a little salt, also the stock 
and letting all boil for two minutes. Serve in a sauce 
boat with the roast. 



Note— Veal, lamb and mutton may all be roasted by the same 
directions as for roasting beef. Mutton takes the same time to do, 
and veal and lamb require twenty minutes for each pound of meat 
and twenty minutes longer. 

The same sauce may be used for veal and mutton, but for Iamb 
only mint sauce is proper ; to prepare which see sauces page 164. 

Roast Turkey. — One turkey, two ounces of butter, 
one ounce of flour, one-half pint of second stock, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, two teaspoonfuls of pepper, four 
ounces of beef suet, seven ounces of bread crumbs, one 
egg, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one heaped 
teaspoonful of chopped thyme. 

After the turkey has been cleaned and singed, chop 
from it the claws and dipping the feet into boiling water, 



36 



ME A TS. 



draw off the skin. Slit them also through with a sharp 
knife, that by severing the tendon the leg may not draw 
up in an ugly manner when exposed to the heat. Twist 
the tip of the wings behind the shoulders, then pass a 
skewer through the under part of the wing, through the 
top part of the leg, straight through the body, — through 
the top part of the other leg and through the under part 
of the other wing, which brings the skewer in a straight 
line across the fowl. Take now another skewer and put 
it through the skin of the fowl at the side, at a point that 
will permit the fastening down of the legs, by running the 
skewer over them, through the , skin at the base of the 
bre,ast, and again into the skin of the bird on the opposite 
side. 

Having thus turned the turkey the dressing must now 
be prepared. Chop the suet finely, and mix with it the 
bread crumbs, the parsley, and thyme, also half of the 
pepper arid salt. To bind this together drop in the egg, 
and then stuff the preparation into the turkey through 
the incision at the heck, and when it is, full, fold the skin 
together and fasten by sewing through with a needle and 
thread. 

Put the bird now into a dry baking tin, and distribute 
one ounce of butter in small pieces over the breast, after 
which place it in a brick oven, and allow it to roast twenty 
minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes additionally. 

While the turkey is roasting, the neck and giblets 
should be put on to boil, first being well covered with 
cold water, and when the turkey is done^ the giblets, etc., 
should be taken from the water, and chopped very finely. 
■ Place the roast now upon a hot platter, pour the grease 
out of the baking tin, and substitute for it the liquor made 



ROAST PORK. 37 

by the boiling of the giblets. In a small saucepan, then 
melt the butter, stir into it the flour, add to it the liquor 
from the baking tin, also the chopped giblets, season all 
with the remainder of the pepper and salt, and let the 
whole cook. for two minutes. Serve in a gravy-boat along 
with the turkey. ' 



Note. — Chickens, ducks and geese may also be prepared and 
roasted in this manner, the stu£Sng for ducks and geese being differ- 
ent, only in the addition of two Bermuda onions, chopped fine, and 
one teaspoonful of sage, to the. seasoning of this given amount of 



Roast Fork. — One small loin of pork, three table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one Bermuda onion, one-half 
teaspoonful of chopped sage, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one ounce of chopped 
suet, one tablespoonful of dripping. 

First separate each joint of the loin, with a chopper, 
and then make an incision with a knife into the thick 
part of the pork in which to put the stuffing. Prepare 
the stuffing by mixing the bread crumbs together with 
the onion, which must have previously been finely chop- 
ped. Add to this the sage, pepper, salt and suet, and 
when all is thoroughly mixed, press the mixture snugly 
into the incision already made in the pork, and sew to- 
gether the edges of the meat with needle and thread,- in 
order to confine the stuffing. Grease well a sheet of 
kitchen paper with the drippings, place the loin into this, 
making an envelope of the paper, and securing it wifJi a 
wrapping of twine. Put to bake in a dry baking pan, in 
a brisk oven, basting immediately and constantly as the 
grease draws out, and roast a length of time, allowing 



38 MEA TS. 

twenty minutes lo each pound of meat and twenty 
minutes longer. 

This should b.e served either with apple-sauce or 
apple-flitters. See page 132. 



Note. — The sage powdeis that may be purchased in small pack- 
ages can be used in all cases where chopped sage is required. 

Roast Bullocks-heart,— One bullocks-heart, three 
ounces of chopped suet, three ounces of bread crumbs, one 
tablespoonf ul of chopped parsley, one dessert spoonful of 
mixed powdered herbs, one gill of milk, two ounces of 
drippings, one Bermuda onion, one pint of cold water, one 
ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup, one teaspoonful of pepper, one dessert 
spoonful of salt. i 

The stuffing for this must first be prepared by mixing 
together the suet, bread crumbs^ parsley and powdered 
herbs. Bind this with the gill of milk and season with 
the pepper and salt. The heart must now be made ready 
by thoroughly washing it in several waters, and the ' deaf 
ears ' or valves closing the arteries cut oflf. Make the 
cells of the heart, now into one large one, by cutting 
away the partitions, place into this the st,ufiing, and greas- 
ing a sheet of kitchen paper, tie it over the top, in order 
to secure the stu£Sng. 

Dry whatever moisture there may be upon the out- 
side of the heart with a dry towel, and place it together 
with the drippings in an oven-tin, and allow it to bake 
briskly, twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty min- 
utes longer, basting meantime. 

While the heart is roasting, the * deaf ears ' must be 
washed, put into a saucepan with the pint of cold water, 



BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 



39 



adding also the onion sliced, and the whole allowed to 
simmer slowly for one hour. 

When the heart is roasted, strain the liquor from the 
' deaf ears,' melt in the saucepan the butter, stir into it 
the flour, and add to this the strained liquor, also the . 
catsup, pepper, and salt, and allow all to cook for two 
minutes, when the pepper should be removed from the 
heart, and placing it upon a hot platter, serve with th« 
sauce poured around. 



Note — ^A sheep's heart is delicious, done in the same way, the 
preparation being that the quantity of staffing must be made accord- 
ing to the size of the heart. 

General Note — The above processes have been termed roasting 
but are in reality baking. Roasting proper only being done by re- 
flected heat before an open fire. Meat is more nourishing done upon 
the spit than in the oven, for the reason that the unwholesome vapors 
are dissipated when exposed to the air, and preserved when confined 
to an oven. 

MEATS.— SECOND DIVISION. 

BOILED MEATS. 

Boiled leg of Mutton. — One leg of mutton, two 
ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one and one-half 
gills of milk, one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of 
pepper, two heaped tablespoonfuls of capers. 

Put over the fire a large saucepan of water and bring 
it to the boiling point. If the mutton be newly killed, 
beat it with a rolling-pin to soften the fibre, but it is better 
to have hung it a week if the weather permits. Plunge the 
meat into the boiling water and allow it to boil up once, 
^hen 4raw the saucepan aside from the blaze of the fire. 



40 -^^-^ TS. 

cover it closely and allow it to simmer slowly,, how slowly 
may be determined by keeping the water bubbling easily 
at one side, until it is done, which will be according to 
the weight of the leg, allowing fifteen minutes for each 
^ound, and fifteen minutes longer. 

Fifteen minutes before the mutton will be done, pre- 
pare the sauce by melting in a. saucepan the butter, and 
stirring into this the dry flour. When the flour and but- 
ter are thoroughly mixed, add one gill and a half of the 
liquor that the mutton is boiling in, also the milk, pepper 
and salt, cook all two minutes to swell the grains of the 
flour. Then take the mutton up and place it on a large 
hot platter, pour over it the sauce, adding just before 
doing this the capers, in order that their color may not be 
lost by standing in the hot liquid. 



Note — The plunging of the mutton first into boiling water is for 
the purpose of hardening the albumen and confining the juices of the 
meat ; it is then allowed to cook slowly, that the fibre may not 
toughen, which rapid boiling would inevitably bring about. 

Boiled corned-Beef. — Six pounds of corned-beef, 
twelve ounces of flour, five ounces of beef-suet, one-half 
teaspoonful of baking-powder, one saltspoonful of salt, one 
dozen small carrots, one-half pint of,cold water. 

Place over the fire a large saucepan two-thirds full of 
cold water and put into it the meat. Bring this quickly 
to the boiling point over a hot fire, and when it boils, 
skim thoroughly.. / 

When the albumen has all been displaced and the scum 
all taken off, draw the saucepan aside from the blaze, and 
allowing fifteen minutes to each pound of meat, and fifteen 
minutes over, let the beef boil gently until doiie. 



BOILED FOWL. 4I 

Meantime the carrots should be well washed and thinly 
scraped, and three-quarters of an hour before the meat 
will be ready for serving, throw them in to cook with it. 

When this is done, mix next, in a large bowl, the suet, 
finely chopped, and flour ; add to this the baking-powder 
and salt and knead into a dry dough with the water. 
Divide this dough into six or eight pieces, roll each piece 
into a small ball and throw them one by one into the 
boiling liquor with the beef twenty minutes before serving. 



Note — The dropping in of the balls of dough cools the boiling 
liquor and care should therefore be taken to wait an instant between 
the putting in of each one that the liquid may boil up, otherwise the 
balls will burst apart,making a very ugly combination. 

Beef suet should be used unless the dish prepared is designed for 
the sick as it mixes most readily with other materials. For the 
sick, mutton suet should always be used as it is easier of digestion, 
being thinner in .the fibre, although more difficult to manipulate. 

Boiled Po'wl. — Egg Sauce. — Two fowls, three 
ounces of butter, one and one-half ounces of flour, one- 
half pint of milk, one-half pint of cream, two eggs, one 
saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper. 

After the fowls have been cleaned and singed, the legs 
must be chopped off at the first joint, and pocketed, which 
is done by pressing the bones inward until entirely 
sheathed in the skin.. Take then a trussing-needle, 
threaded from a ball of twine, put the points of the wings 
behind the shoulders, and passing the needle through the 
under part of the first wing at the point of the joint, on 
through the thick part of the leg at the top, thence 
straight through the body, through the other leg and 
wine at the corresponding point, draw the thread after 



42 ME^ TS. 

carefully, forming a straight line across the fowl ; then 
turning back, put the needle through the upper part of 
the wing, through the skin of the neck and the upper part 
of the remaining wing, drawing the thread again after, 
and tying the two ends of the twine, which now approach 
each other, into a secure knot. 

Thread the trussing needle now anew, and putting it 
through the fowl at the tail, just over the back bone, pass 
it over one leg, through the skin at; the base of the breast, 
and over the other leg, bringing the ends of the twine 
again together, where they must be tied very tightly. 

When both fowls have been trussed, grease two sheets 
of kitchen paper and tie one over the breast of each fowl. 
Have then in readiness a large saucepan of boiling water, 
plunge the fowl therein and allow the water to boil up. 
When boiling cover the saucepan closely and drawing it 
aside frop the blaze of the fire, allow the fowls to simmer 
slowly, from an hour to an hour and a quarter, until the 
chickens are tender. 

While this is being accomplished put two eggs into 
boiling water, let them boil for ten minutes, then taking 
them from the fire, throw them at once into a bowl of 
cold water, that they may cool quidkly, and the coating 
of the yolks preserve their coloring. When the eggs 
are quite cold, remove the shells and chop the whites into 
irregular pieces, preparatory to making the sauce. 

Five minutes before the fowls are to be removed from 
the boiling, put into a small saucepan the butter, and 
melting it, stir therein the flour, adding by degrees the 
milk, stirring meantime until all boils, when the cream 
must be thrown in, also the pepper and salt, allowing the 
whole to c6olc together for two minutes. 



BOILED BEEFSTEAti POJJPlNG. 43 

Remove now the fowl from the saucepan, take the 
papers off from the breasts, and cut out the strings, and 
place them upon a large hot platter, pouring over the 
breast of each the sauce, to which must be added at the 
last moment the whites of eggs, in order that they may 
not discolor with standing. Before serving, hold a wire 
sieve over the upturned breasts of the chickens, and rub 
the yolk of the eggs through upon them. 

Notes, — The length of time given for boiling is for very young 
fowl ; for older ones the time must be increased, to what length will 
be determined by the period at which the meat becomes tender. 

The object of trussing is to keep the fowl in proper form, and give 
it a plump, neat appearance, when brought to the table. 

The greased papers are put over the breast, for the purp'ose of 
keeping the meat white, and, by absorbing the grease with which they 
are satumted, tender. 

Boiled Beefsteak Pudding.— Two pouilds of 
steak from the round, two sheep's kidneys, one pound of 
flour, six ounces of beef suet, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, one dessert spoonful of salt, one-half dessert 
spoonful of pepper, one-half pint of cold water, one des- 
sert spoonful of Mushroom catsup, one dessert spoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce. 

First mix well on a plate, the salt and pepper, leaving 
out a little of the salt, which will be required for the 
crust, after which cut the steak and kidney into inch- 
square pieces, and roll them about on the plate, until 
thoroughly seasoned. 

Now chop the suet finely, and put it upon a niixing 
board, together with the flour, add to this the baking 
powder and the remaining salt, and knead all into a light 
dough with the cold water. Cut off a third part of the 



44 



ME A TS. 



dough, and reserve it for the covering of pudding, and 
rolling the remainder until about one quarter of an inch 
in thickness, grease a quart bowl, and line it therewith. 
Put now loosely into this crust-lined bowl, the steak and 
kidney, and having poured over the top the catsup, and 
Worcestershire sauce, fill it to within an inch of the top, 
with cold water. The remainder of the crust should then 
be rolled out to the exact size of the bowl, and put over 
the meat, pinched firmly together with the lining crust 
around the edge. 

Dip a towel in hot water, flour it slightly, and tie it 
tightly over the top of the bowl to prevent any of the 
juices escaping, and putting all into a large saucepan of 
boiling water, allow it to boil for two hours and a half. 

If served in the bowl, a napkin may be arranged to 
cover the ware and the whole be carried to table on a 
round china or silver plate ; If it is to be transferred to 
another dish for serving, one should be selected for the 
purpose into the bottom of which the round of the upper 
crust will fit nicely, and care be exercised not to break 
the paste in turning it out. 

MEATS.— THIRD DIVISION. 

MEAT DISHES. 

Beefsteak Fie. — Three pounds of round steak, one 
dessert spoonful of salt, one-half dessert spoonful of pep- 
per, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one-half 
pint of second stock, one pound of flour, one-half pound 
of butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three gills 
of cold water. 

The steak must first be cut into pieces three mches 



BEEFSTEAK Pt£. 



45 



square, into each piece put a little of the pepper and salt, 
and then roll each separately into a roll. Put these rolls 
loosely in the bottom of a flat, vegetable dish, pour over 
them the Worcestershire sauce, the catsup, and the stock. 
Place upon a mixing board the flour and baking powder 
with a little salt, mix all well together and knead into a 
light dough with the cold water. Roll this dough out 
as thinly as possible and dividing the butter into three 
pieces, spread one piece upon the dough. Fold the dough 
into three layers and again roll out, and repeat this pro- 
cess until the butter is all used. When this is done, roll 
it out to a size a little larger than the top of the vegetable 
dish and a half an inch in thickness. Rub the top of 
the vegetable dish with cold water, and cutting some 
narrow strips from the dough, line the edge therewith, and 
wetting this strip of lining also with cold water, cover the 
remaining dough over the top, when the edges should be 
pressed together with the thumb and the whole evenly cut 
around with a knife. The pie should then be brushed 
over with a little egg or milk as may be most convenient 
a hole cut into the top to permit the steam escaping, and 
the pieces of crust that have been cut off at the edges, cut 
and arranged ornamentally, over the surface to conceal 
the hole as much as possible without covering it. Put ■ 
the pie to bake in a quick oven for half an hour, to raise 
and cook the crust, then cooling the oven a little, allow it 
to bake slowly an hour longer or until the steak is quite 
tender, which may be ascertained by inserting a skewer or 
a fork. 

Note — If the crast should appear to be browning too much or 
too rapidly in the baking, it may be protected by covering it with a 
sheet of greased kitchen-paper. 



46 MEATS. 

Hot-pot. — One and one-half pounds of lean mutton, 
two pounds of raw potatoes, one and one-half ounces of 
flpur, one dessert spoonful of salt, one-half dessert spoon- 
ful of pepper, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, one 
tablespoonful of catsup, one ounce of butter, one-half 
pint of cold water. 

When the potatoes have been pared, put them into 
cold water, and allow them to come to the boiling point, 
which being reached, they are at once to be taken out. 
Slice then enough of the potatoes to cover the bottom of a 
good sized vegetable dish, putting them in in layers, after 
which cut the mutton into small, convenient pieces, roll 
each piece into a mixture made of the flour, pepper, salt 
and nutmeg, and put them into the dish in layers alter- 
nating with the layers of potato, until the contents are 
level with the top. The remaining potatoes should be cut 
in half and arranged over the top leaving the round sides 
up. Melt the butter and brush it over the top of the 
potatoes to prevent their hardening in the oven, pour the 
catsup and water in at the side of the dish, and bake in a 
moderate oven for an hour and a half. 



Note — Potatoes should never be used without being put fiist 
into cold water and then brought to the boiling point. This draws 
out the greenness, which produces indigestion and is exceedingly in- 
jurious to some stomachs. 

Stewed B^ef. — Four pounds of stewing beef, two 
carrots, two turnips, one oniony one-half ounce of flour, 
one ounce of butter, three gills of second stock, one-halt 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one-half table- 
spoonful of catsup, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 



tlAklCOT OP MUTTOt). ^f 

The butter must first be melted in a saucepan, and 
when the smoke arises therefrom put into it the beef and 
brown well on both sides. While the beef is browning 
put into a bowl the flour and make it smooth with a table- 
spoonful of the stock ; add then the catsup, Worcestershire 
sauce with the pepper and salt, and the remainder of the 
stock, stir all until thoroughly blended and pour the mix- 
ture over the browning beef. Stir the liquor around the 
meat until it boils, skimming the grease from the top as it 
arises, and adding then one carrot and one turnip, sliced, , 
also the onion. Draw the saucepan now aside from the 
blaze of the fire, and allow it to simmer slowly for two 
hours; meantime, half an hour before the time for cooking 
expires, cut the remaining carrot and turnip into fancy 
shapes with a vegetable cutter, throw them into a small 
saucepan filled with boiling water and cook them until 
quite tender. When the meat is done, place it upon a 
large hot platter, strain over it the gravy, and taking the 
prepared carrot and turnip from the water, drain, and 
garnish with them the stew. 

Haricot of Mutton. — One half dozen mutton 
chops, one-half ounce of butter, twelve button-onions, 
one ounce of flour, two turnips, one carrot, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one pint 
of second stock. 

Trim the fat from the chops, and melting the butter 
in a saucepan slice into it one of the onions. 

When the blue smoke arises from the heated butter 
put into it the chops and brown them to a nice, pale 
brown. When this is done take out of the pan the chops 
and pour off the grease, after which put the flour into the 
pan, the giease still adhering to which will be sufficient 



4.8 MEA TS. 

) 

to prevent its lumping, add to it the stock and stir all 
until it boils, when it should be skimmed to remove such 
particles of the onion and grease as may arise and the 
chops returned to the pan. AU should now be permitted 
to stew for half an hour gently when the button-onions 
must be added, also the carrot, cut in fancy shapes, and 
the turnips which must have been quartered, the pepper 
and salt, and the whole allowed to stew for half an hour 
longer, when it is ready to serve. 

Arrange the chops for serving, in a circle upon a hot 
platter, fill the vegetables into the centre, and pour the 
sauce around from the outer edge. 



Note — By button-onions is meant onions of the size of a button, 
— the smallest onions procurable. 

Blauquette of Veal.— Three pounds of filet of 
veal, one and one-half pints of white stock, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of sherry, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, yolks of two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of cream, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of white pepper, one-half ounce of flour. 

Begin' by cutting the veal' into small regular pieces 
about four inches square, place it then into a copper or 
porcelain-lined saucepan, and pour over it a pint of boil- 
ing white stock. Whatever of impurity there may be in 
the meat, will at once arise to the surface, therefore it 
must be immediately skimmed and allowed thereafter to 
simmer very slowly for one hour. 

While the meat is thus cooking put the flour into a 
bowl, wet, and make it smooth Tf ith a tablespoonful of 
the cold stock, add to it the pepper, salt, lemon-juice 
and sherry and the remainder of the stock, and pouring 



FRICASSiE OP CHICKEN. 49 

this into the saucepan let the whole cook together for 
twenty minutes longer. 

Just before serving, put the yolks of the eggs into a 
bowl, together with the chopped parsley, beat these until 
thoroughly blended when the cream must be added, and 
when the saucepan containing the veal has been removed 
from the fire and allowed to cool for two minutes, pour 
into it this mixture and stir all quickly, to prevent the 
eggs curdling which , they are liable to do by coming in 
conjunction with the cream and lemon-juice. 

This should be served very hot. 



Note. — A copper or porcelain-lined saucepan is here specified 
because a common saucepan in which anything else has been cooked, 
unless especially scoured for this purpose, will unfailingly discolor 
the veal. 

Fricassee of Chicken. — One young fowl, one 
ounce of butter, one and one-half ounces of flour, one 
carrot, one Bermuda onion, one and one-half pints of 
second white stock, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of white pepper, one blade of mace, one gill of 
cream, one dozen of small mushrooms. 

\ First- disjoint the chicken and throwing it into cold 
water let it remain therein for twenty minutes. Put 
the pieces, of meat into a copper or porcelain-lined 
saucepan and pour over them the whole of the stock, 
boiling. As it boils skim it well, add the pepper and salt, 
also the carrot and onion, and allow all to cook as slowly 
as possible for half an hour, at the expiration of which, 
the pieces of fowl must be taken out and the liquor 
strained. 

Put the mushrooms now into the emptied saucepan, 

3 



50 MBAtS. 

cover them with cold water and let them Ijoil for five 
minutes, when they should be poured out and strained, 
and the saucepan thoroughly cleansed. 

Melt then in the saucepan the butter, add to it the 
flour, and by degrees, the strained stock, and when this 
boils, add the mace, the flour, and the mushrooms and 
allow all to cook together for twenty minutes longer. 

Remove now the mace and at the last moment add the 
cream. Serve on a large hot platter. 



Note, — If the canned mushrooms aie used they will be found 
already prepared, but if the fresh ones are preferred or are found more 
convenient they must be skinned before using. 

Rolled shoulder of Mutton. — One shoulder of 
mutton, three ounces of butter, one teaspdonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, three tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one and one-half ounces of chopped suet, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one egg, one gill of cold 
water. 

It is desirable that the mutton should be boned by the 
butcher, but should this oflSce fall to the cook it is easiest 
done by placing the mutton with the skin side to the table, 
and with a sharp knife, making an incision that will enable , 
the bone to be firmly taken hold of. Proceed then very 
carefully to separate the bone from the flesh, exercising 
caution not to break the outer skin. 

When this is accomplished prepare the dressing. 
Begin this by mixing in a bowl the pepper, salt, bread 
crumbs and suet. Add to this the chopped parsley and 
bind all together with the egg. Place this dressing into 
the shoulder where the bone has been removed and roll 
the meat into a neat roll, tying it loosely around with twine 



WJNDHAM CUTLETS. 51 

as the bread in the stuffing swells and room must be 
allowed for this. 

Now melt the butter in a saucepan. When it is hot, 
put in the shoulder, cover it closely and allow it to cook 
for one hour and a half. During this time of cooking the 
meat should be frequently basted, and turned occasionally, 
that it may brown evenly on all sides. 

When ready for serving, put the meat upon a large, 
hot platter, pour the grease out of the saucepan and pour 
in its stead a gill of cold water. Stir the water well around 
and scrape with the spoon the bottom of the pan that all 
of the browned juices may be collected and when this 
liquor boils, pour it over the mutton and serve at once. 

Windham Cutlets. — Five mutton cutlets from the 
back rib, one gill of second stock, one carrot, one turnip, 
one small piece of celery, one onion, one pound of 
mashed potatoes, yolks of two eggs, one ounce of butter, 
one-half ounce of flour, one and one-half gills of cold 
water, one-half tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
one-half tablespoonful of catsup, six drops of caramel, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, 
one pint of green peas. 

Trim all of the fat from the cutlets and leave a half 
an inch of the bone bare at the top of each one. Place 
them then in a copper frying-pan, and slice over them 
the carrot and turnip, onion and celery, adding also the 
pepper and salt. Pour over all the second stock and put 
the pan over a slow fire, allowing the contents to cook for 
twenty minutes, turning the cutlets meantime in order 
that they may cook evenly through. While they are 
cooking, rub the potatoes through a sieve to make sure 
that they are perfectly smooth, when they must be put into 



53 



M£A TS. 



a saucepan, the yolks of egg dropped into them, and 
stirred over the fire until the, eggs are rendered dry by the 
action of heat. 

When the cutlets are ready take a fifth part of the 
potatoes so prepared, and flattened with a knife upon a 
mixing-board to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and 
roll in this one of the cutlets, leaving the bone bare as a 
handle. Envelope each of the cutlet^s in its blanket of 
potato prepared in this way, and when this is done lay all 
of them upon a baking-tin, lightly greased, brush them 
^over with a little milk or egg, and brown them in a very 
quick oven. 

While they are browning. Stir into the frying-pan 
the butter, place it over the fire, and add thereto the flour, 
when the cold water should be put in and all stirred until 
boiling. Put then with this the catsup, Worcestershire 
sauce and caramel, and allow the whole to cook for two 
minutes. 

Arrange the cutlets now in a circle upon a hot platter, 
fill into the centre a pint of boiled green peas, and pour 
the brown sauce around the whole through a strainer to 
keep out the vegetables that have been used to flavor it. 



Notes. — In preparing the potato envelope, a little flour should be 
sprinkled over the board to prevent sticking. 

If the oven should not, by any accident, be hot enough to brovrn 
the cutlets quickly, this may be done by holding over them a heated 
fire shovel, as leaving them long in the oven dries out the potatoes 
and so spoils the dishi 

The sauce is made in the fryiiig-pan in preference to a fresh one 
in order that it may partake of both the flavor of the vegetables and 
of the juices of the meat, which adhere to the pan in the process of 
cookine, 



MUTTON SOUBISE. 53 

Mutton Soubise. — Five mutton chops, three table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one egg, two Spanish onions, 
one ounce of flour, one-half pint of milk, one saltspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper, two ounces of 
butter, one ounce of clarified fat, two carrots, one turnip. 

First throw the onions into boiling water to draw out 
the greenness, and then allow them to stand in the soak 
over night. When ready to prepare the dish throw the 
onions again into boiling water, and let them boil in it for 
half an hour. Cut the carrot and turnip into small balls, 
with a French vegetable cutter and throw these also into 
boiling water, letting them boil for twenty minutes. Pre- 
pare the cutlets then by trimming the fat off and dipping 
them into a well beaten egg, when the bread crumbs 
should be put into a sheet of kitchen paper, seasoned with 
a little pepper and salt and the cutlets rolled from side to 
side therein until well covered. After the cutlets have 
been rolled thus in the bread crumbs the coating should 
be pressed on firmly and smoothly with the blade of a 
knife, and when the clarified fat has been heated in a 
frying-pan until the blue smoke arises from it, the cutlets 
should be dropped one by one therein, and cooked for 
seven minutes, turning them once in the pan while frying. 

While the cutlets are cooking the onions should be 
taken from the boiling water and chopped very finely. 
Put them then into a dry saucepan, and mix them to- 
gether with an ounce of flour, add by degrees the milk, 
pepper, and salt, when the saucepan must be placed over 
the fire and its' contents stirred until the milk boils. 
When boiling add the butter, letting all cook together for 
two minutes. 

The cutlets should now be arranged in a circle upon 



54 M^A TS. 

a hot platter, the turnip and carrot filled into the centre, 
and the soubise poured around the whole. 

Ragout of Rabbit. — One rabbit, one-quarter of a 
pound of bacon, one teaspoonful of mixed dried herbs, 
six small mushrooms, one very small onion, one teaspoon-^ 
ful of salt, juice of one-half of a lemon, two ounces of 
flour, one tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce, one wineglass- 
ful of sherry, one gJU of stock. 

The rabbit must first lie for an hour in strong salt and 
water, after which it should be cut into convenient pieces 
and dried thoroughly in, a towel. 

The bacon should then be cut into, dice, apd putting 
it into a stew-pan and over a hot fire, fried until it is 
brown. Take out now the browned bacon and substitu- 
ting the pieces of rabbit there for, fry these also until brown, 
sprinkling in the flour as they cook which helps them to a 
fine color. 

While the meats are browning the mushrooms and 
onion should be chopped exceedingly fine — almost to a 
powder, and this sprinkled over the browned rabbit, also 
the salt, pepper and herbs. Stir all well together, ''then 
squeeze? over it the lemon-juice, adding also the Harvey's 
sauce, sherry, and, last of all the stpck. 

Cook slowly for one hour, stirring constantly mean- 
time; as the perfection of this preparation lies in preserv- 
ing its exceeding dryness without letting it bum. 



Note, — Only a young rabbit is suitable for this dish as an old one 
requires too long for the cooking. 

(The bacon is used for this preparation because of the fine flavor 
which it imputs, but butter may ,be substituted for it in cooking the 
^bbit, if more convenieiit or desirable. 



BRAISED FILET OF VEAL. 55 

Stewed Kidney. — One pair of ox-kidneys, one 
ounce of butter, one and one-half ounces of flour, one- 
half ounce of flour of rice, three gills of second stock, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one 
dessert spoonful of mushroom catsup, six drops of caramel. 

Begin by washing the kidneys thoroughly in cold 
water. Dry them well in a towel and cut into very thin 
slices. Prepare upon a plate the flour, pepper, and salt, 
into which dip each piece separately, and melting the but- 
ter in a frying pan, when the blue smoke arises, brown the 
kidney therein. 

As the pieces of kidney become brown remove them 
from the butter into a stew pan and when all are thus 
transferred, put the stock into the frying pan, and stir until 
it boils. When boiling pour the stock over the kidney in 
the stew-pan and let all cook over a very slow fire, for an 
hour and a half. At the end of this time put the flour of 
rice into a bowl, moisten it with the catsup, add the cara- 
mel, and pouring this into the stew-pan with the kidneys, 
cook all together for half an hour longer. Serve ii^ a cov- 
ered dish. I 

Braised filet of Veal.— Three pounds of filet of 
veal, one-quarter of a pound of fat bacon, one and one- 
half pints of stock, one carrot, one turnip, one head of 
celery, one teaspoonful of whole white pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Cut the bacon into thin strips about two inches in 
length and one-third of an inch in width. Place next the 
filet upon a board and with a sharp knife"\ake off the 
skin, then threading a larding needle with the bacon, lard 
the top of the filet with it as thickly as possible. When 
the veal is larded, cut the vegetables into small pieces and 



56 M£A TS. 

put them into a braising, or ordinary copper stew-pan. 
Pour over them then the stock, add to this the pepper- 
corns and salt, and lay the filet upon the vegetables which 
should be pranged thickly enough, to lift the meat quite 
above the stock. Place the braising-pan now over a quick 
fire, and baste the filet constantly until the stock boils. 
Coyer the filet then with a sheet of greased kitchen paper, 
cut to the size pf the braising-pan, close the lid of the 
pan and place it in a quick oven, where it must remain for 
an hour and a quarter. While in the oven the lid of the 
pan and the paper covering should be raised and the filet 
basted at frequent intervals with the stock. 

At the expiration of the hour and a half, remove the 
filet to a hot platter and put the braising pan over a quick 
fire, until the stock is reduced to half the quantity, when it 
should be poured through ^ strainer around the meat and 
all hurried quickly to the table. 



NoTB. — The secret of successful larding lies in cutting the Strips 
of bacon long and taking a deefp, long stitch with the larding needle. 

MEATS.— FOURTH DIVISION. 
COLD-MEAT DISHES. 

Rissoles. — Three-quarters of a poiind of cold roast 
beef, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one saltspoon- 
f ul of grated nutmeg, one tablespoonful of milk, one egg, 
twelve ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder, one knd one-half gills of cold 
water, three ounces of vermicelli. 

Chop the cold meat very finely, the fat and lean to- 



CURRY. 57 

gether, place it into a bowl with the pepper, nutmeg and 
nearly all of the salt and stir together with the milk. Put 
the flour now upon a mixing board, rub into it the butter, 
add the baking-powder and remaining salt, mixing all 
into a firm dough with the cold water. When the dough 
is mixed, knead and roll it out to about a quarter of an 
inch thickness, cut it then into rounds with a biscuit cut- 
ter, beat the egg until very light and brush the edges of 
the rounds with it. Put now into the centre of these 
rounds as much of the minced meat, as the crust can be 
made to cover, gather up the edges of the dough over the 
meat, and pinch them firmly together. 

When the rounds are all filled, roll them separately into 
the beaten egg, crush the vermicelli to a powder, put it 
upon a sheet of kitchen paper and roll the rissoles by turns 
in this, until thoroughly blanketed with the powder. 

Cook now in hot clarified fat for five minutes, putting 
in only a part of the rissoles at a time as the fat will be 
too much cooled by plunging all in at once. 

When taken from the fat, drain the rissoles upon a 
clean piece of kitchen paper, and serve them in a hot 
napkin, garnishing with sprigs of parsley. 



Note — When clarified fat or lard is used for frying, care must be 
taken that what is used for fish and sweets be kept distinctly. 

OuiTy. — Three-quarters of a pound of cold mutton, 
two ounces of butter, one onion, one-half ounce of flour, 
one dessert spoonful of Curry powder, one apple, one^ 
half pint of second stock, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Melt first the butter in a saucepan and brown in it to 



58 MEATS. 

a very^rale brown the sliced onion. Stir into this the 
curry-powder and flour, and when all is thoroughly mixed, 
add to the mixture by degrees the stock. 

Stir now carefully until boiling and when this point is 
reached, grate the apple, and add it also. 

Put on then the lid of the saucepan and allow all to 
simmer slowly for ten minutes, in the meantime cut the 
mutton into slices, drop it slice by slice into this boiling 
sauce, and allow it to cook just long enough to heat the 
meat through when the saucepan must at once be removed 
from the fire, and the preparation served. 

Note. — The great fault ia preparing cold meats for a second serv- 
ing, lies in losing sight of the fact that the meat is already cooked to 
a turn, and allowing it to remain too long exposed to the drying and 
toughening action of heat in the second preparation. 

Cold boiled mutton with tomato sauce. — 

Three-quarters of a pound of cold mutton, one pint of 
cold stewed tomatoes, two ounces of butter, one-half 
ounce of flour, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, one grain of 
cayenne, one gill of second stock. 

First cut the mutton into slices, place them neatly 
into the bottom of a flat vegetable dish, and season each 
piece lightly with the salt, pepper and cayenne. Melt 
then the butter and make it hot, when half should be 
poured over the meat and into what remains stir the flour, 
adding to it when smooth, the stock. When this mixture 
boils add to it the sugar, the remainder of the seasoning 
and the tomatoes, and let all cook for two minutes that 
the tomatoes may become very hot, when the sauce should 
be poured over the mutton and the whole covered' tightly 
until taken to the table. 



Cornish pasties. ^g 

Notes. — It should be remembered that all highly seasoned dishes, 
particularly those in which pepper predominates, should be served 
very hot. 

When cold tomatoes are not in the larder, either fresh or canned 
ones may be prepared for the above use. 

Corned-beef Hash. — One pound of chopped 
corned-beef, three-quarters of a pound of boiled potatoes, 
two ounces of butter, one gill of stock, one teaspoonful of 
pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one Spanish onion. 

Before chopping the meat, trim away and remove all the 
skin and grizzle, that all substances likely to present hard 
lumps may be taken out. Chop then the potatoes, taking 
care that they do not become too fine or a mashed paste, 
and mix them together with the meat in the chopping 
bowl. Chop the onion then finely and brown it, to a pale 
brown in the butter. When brown, add to it the stock, 
and, when this is hot, the chopped corned-beef and pota- 
toes, season all with the pepper and salt, and stir over the 
fire until very hot. 

Serve this hash banked up in a hot vegetable dish 
with a piece of butter let into a hole made by the print of 
a spoon bowl in the top. 

Notes. — Cold roast beef may also be used in this way, and pieces 
of cold beef stealc as well, and a delicious, juicy bash can be made 
after this method for those who enjoy rare meats by substituting raw 
steak, minced for the cold cooked meats. 

Potatoes are best for this use that are a little underdone as when 
hard they mince without mashing and so retain their character. 

Cornish Pasties.— Three-quarters of a pound of 
cold beefsteak, one-half pound of raw potatoes, one Span- 
ish onion, one teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one pound of flour, four ounces of beef suet, one tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder, one-half pint of cold water. 



6o MEATS. 

, Cover the potatoes, in a saucepan, with cold water 
and bring the water to the boiling point, and when this is 
reached take out the potatoes and cut them into small, 
square pieces. Put the pieces upon a plate and shred 
over them the onion, add to these the steak, which must 
also be cut into small square pieces, and sprinkle over 
all, the pepper arid nearly all of the salt. 

Toss these all now together with a fork, then place the 
suet upon a board and chop it very finely, mix well with 
it the flour, baking-powder and the remainder of the salt, 
and make these iiito a light dough with thfe cold water. 

Cut the dopgh then into six or eight pieces, roll each 
piece out round and to a quarter of an inch thickness, 
brush the edges of the rounds with a'little cold water, and 
put into each an equal part of the meat mixture. Gather 
up the edges of the crust and pinch them firmly together, 
brush each over with a little egg or milk, and bate them 
in a ijuick oven three-quarters of an hour. 

Shepherd's Pie. — One pound of cold roast beef, on,e 
Spanish onion, one and one-half ounces of butter, one- 
half ounce of flour, one pound of mashed potatoes, one 
tablespoonful of catsup, one-half gill of cold water, one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt. 

Mince the meat very finely, and melt then in a sauce- 
pan half an ounce of the butter, throw into it the minced 
meat and brown it well, keeping the meat moving all of 
the time to prevent its lumping. While this is doing 
spirinkle the flour in by degrees both to help the browning 
and to thicken the composition. Add then the pepper, 
salt and water, and stir all until boiling when the onion 
must be sliced and put in. Draw the saucepan now to 
one side of the fire, in orde? that it may keep hot without 



SAVSAGe. ROLLS. 6l 

cooking, and taking another saucepan, melt in it the re- 
mainder of the butter, add to it the gill of milk and when 
this boils throw into it the mashed potatoes, and stir all 
together until the potatoes are very hot. 

Place then into a vegetable dish a layer of the pota- 
toes, add the catsup to the minced meat and cover the 
potatoes with a layer of it, and so alternating the meat 
and potatoes, fill all into the dish leaving a last layer of 
potato at the top. When this is done dip a knife into milk 
and smooth this top covering with the blade of it, and 
place it in a moderate oven for half an hour to bake, 
watching that the potatoes at the top brown handsomely. 



Note. — Veal, mutton oi cold beefsteak, may be used for this pie 
,as well as the roast-beef. ' 

Sausage Rolls. — One-half pound of cold pork, four 
leaves of sage, and one-half teaspoonful of pepper,' one 
grain of cayenne, twelve ounces of flour, four ounces of 
butter, one egg, one and ofie-half gills of cold water, one 
teaspoonful of baking-powder, one teaspoonful of salt. 

The pork must be chopped very finely, also the sage 
leaves which are to be well mixed with the meat. Season 
this with the "pepper, half of the salt, and the cayenne. 
Put now the flour upon a mixing board, and rub into it 
the butter, add to it the baking-powder and remaining 
salt and making a little well in the centre of this mixture^ 
drop into it the yolk of egg, pour over it the water, knead 
all lightly together, and roll the dough so formed out to 
the thickness of a quarter of an inch.. Cut this paste into 
pieces four inches Jong, and three wide, beat the white of 
egg slightly, and brush the edges of the paste with it. 

Put now into each of these pieces a portion of the 



62 M^-^ "fS. 

chopped pork, gather together the edges of the crust 
around it, and pinch them firmly together. Brush each 
one over with a little of the egg, place them into a lightly 
floured baking-tin, and put them to bake in a hot oven, 
for half an hour. 

Veal Balls. — One-half a pound of cold veal, eight 
tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of mixed dried herbs, 
one-half teaspoonful of pepper,, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, two eggs. 

Put six tablespoonfuls of the bread crumbs into a 
bowl, and chopping the veal finely, mix it therewith. 
Season this with the pepper and salt, adding the nutmeg, 
also the parsley and herbs, after which the whole must 
be thoroughly mixed together. To give this consistency 
drop in the yolks of the two eggs, saving the whites sep- 
arate upon a plate. 

Roll the mixture now into small balls, using an ounce 
of flour upon the hands to prevent sticking. Beat the 
whites of the eggs then slightly, roll the balls therein, and 
placing the remaining bread crumbs in a paper roll them 
also in it. Throw them now into smoking clarified fat 
for four minutes, when they should be taken out and put 
to drain on kitchen paper, after which pile in orderly man- 
ner upon a hot napkin for serving. 

Cold ttirkey -nrith white sauce.— One-half 
pound of cold turkey, two ounces of butter, one ounce of 
flour, one-half teaspoonful of white pepper, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half pint of milk, one gill of cream, 
one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

The turkey must first be boned, the skin having been 
removed, and the fragments then cut into small even 



MmCED CHICKEN WITH POTATO WALL 6% 

pieces. Melt in a copper or porcelain-lined saucepan the 
butter, mix well with it the flour and add by degrees the 
milk, stirring all until it boils. When boiling put in the 
cream, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, also the pieces of turkey 
taking great care not to break up the meat in the pro- 
cess, and let all simmer together very slowly until the 
turkey is heated through. 

Serve very hot on a small platter, with sippits of toast, 
or fried bread. 



Notes.— Cold veal or chicken may also be used in this way. 

A copper or porcelain-lined saucepan should always be used in the 
preparation of white meats, as anything but a very bright vessel, is 
sure to cause them to discolor. 

Minced chicken with potato wall. — Three 
quarter pounds of cold chicken, two ounces of butter, 
one-half ounce of flour, one tablespoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce, one-half gill of second stock, six drops of 
caramel, one pound of potatoes, one tablespoonful of 
cream, one egg, one- half tea spoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Begin with chopping the cold chicken very fine. Melt 
then in a saucepan, one ounce of the butter and when this 
is hot put into it the cold chicken and brown thoroughly. 
Add to this the flour and the stock, stirring all until it 
boils, when it must be seasoned with the pepper, and sialt> 
the Worcestershire sauce and caramel thrown in, and then 
covering the saucepan draw it aside from the fire that it 
may keep an even heat but not cook. 

The potatoes must now be boiled and rubbed through 
a wire-sieve while hot, afid when so floured return them 
to the saucepan, add the cream, the remainder of the but- 



64, ^'^^ ^^■ 

ter and the egg, and stir all well over the fire until the 
butter is melted, and the egg dry. 

Arrange the potato mixture then in a circle upon a 
hot platter leaving a round hole in the centre, smooth it 
with a knife, and place in the centre the minced chicken 
and serve. \ 



Note. — If it is desired the potato wal) may be browned before the 
chicken is put in, but if this is done at all it must be done in a very 
hot oven, otherwise the potato will dry out and become tough and 
heavy. 

Cold meat shape. — One pound of cold meat, two 
ounces of maccaroni, one teacupful of bread crumbs, one 
ounce of butter, one egg, one tablespoonful of stock, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Chop the cold meat very finely, put it into a basin, 
^hen done and season with the pepper and salt. Wash 
the maccaroni well in cold water and boil it for half an 
hour. Drain it then thoroughly and cut into inch lengths, 
when it must be mixed together with the chopped meat 
and bread crumbs, and separating the butter jnto small 
pieces mix that in also. Bind all now together with the 
egg and the stock, and when thoroughly mixed together, 
pack the mixture into a well greased basin or bowl and 
steam the contents for one hour. 



Notes. — The maccaroni must be pnt on the fir6 in cold water and 
boiled rapidly. 

By steaming it is meant that the bowl or basin, covered with 
a piece of kitchen paper, should be placed in a saucepan within 
which is sufficient water to reach half way up its sides and allowed 
thus to cook in its own steam. Any kind of cold meat except pork 
can be used for this preparation. 



BROILED fClUNEYS. , 65 

Savory Hash. — Three quarters of a pound of cold 
meat, one Spanish onion, one ounce of butter, one ounce 
of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper, one dessert spoonful of catsup, one dessert spoon- 
ful of Harvey's sauce, one-half pint of second stock, one 
carrot, one turnip. 

Clean and chop fine both the carrot and turnip, when 
they must be put to boil in a small saucepan with boiling 
water until tender, which will take about twenty minutes. 
While these are cooking, melt the butter in a separate 
saucepan, brown in it the onion, sliced, then cutting into 
slices the cold meat roll them in the flour, and placing 
these slices in the butter with the onion brown them 
slightly also. Pour over 'this how the stock, the Harvey's 
sauce and catsup, stir all together gently until the stock 
boils and season with the pepper and the salt. 

When the pieces of meat have become thoroughly 
heated through, arrange them in a fiat dish and pour the 
gravy over. Strain the water carefully from the turnip 
and carrot, lest by after draining it impoverish the gravy, 
and pile them high upon the top of the pieces of meat 
when it is ready for serving. 

' Notes. — Cold loast beef or cold beef steak is best for this dish, 
but any other cold meat may be used. 

[The weighing of the cold meats is given merely in order to fix 
proportions.] 

MEATS.— FIFTH DIVISION, 

BROILED AND FRIED. 

Broiled kidneys with Maitre d'Hotel but- 
ter. — Six sheep kidneys, two tablespoonfuls of bread 



(56 MeaT^. 

crumbs, three ounces of butter, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one dessert spoonful 
of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice. 

The kidneys should first be washed and the thin outer 
skin torn entirely off of them. Separate them then 
through the back opposite the seam with a sharp knife, 
cutting them almost through in order that they may be 
spread out flatly, when, tnelting one ounce of the biitter 
each kidney shquld be dipped therein,"" a skewer passed 
through each leaf and the kidney straightened thereon, 
and sprinkling over each of them a little of the bread 
crumbs, put them upon a gridiron and broil over a very 
hot fire. 

While the kidneys are broiling put together the 
chopped parsley, lemon-juice and butter and rub ail to- 
gether with the. point of a knife blade. Take the kidneys 
when done quickly from the broiler, arrange them upon 
a dish of buttered toast, sprinkle over each a little pepper 
and salt, and place in the centre of each a little of the 
Maitre d'Hotel butter. 

Broiled Beefsteak.^One porter-house steak, two 
ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of pepper, 

The steak should hang for one week in the ice-box 
before using, and before broiling place it upon a board 
and beat it with a round rolling pin sufficient to soften 
the fibre, without mutilating it or crushing out the juices. 
Put it then upon a gridiron and at first over the hottest 
part of the fire that the pores of the meat may be imme- 
diately closed, then turning constantly to prevent, burn- 
ing, broil from seven to. ten minutes according to the 
thickness of the steak, and when done, remove it from 



BROILED CHICKEN. 6? 

the iron to a very hot platter, put the butter in pieces over 
the top and press it in with the point of a knife blade, 
: sprinkle over all the pepper and salt, and serve in its own 
gravy, of which the butter will have drawn out sufficient 
from the steak without adding water. 



Note. — To this gravy may be added a tablespoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce if desired. 

Mutton or lamb-chops may be broiled also in this way. 

Broiled Chicken.— One young fowl, two ounces 
of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper. 

The fowl must first be split down the back, washed 
thoroughly, in and out, with cold-water and as thoroughly 
dried in a clean towel. Grease then slightly a broiler, 
season the chicken, inside and out, by rubbing on the pep- 
per and salt, and putting the fowl in it, place to broil over 
a strong, clear fire ; as soon as the juices begin to draw 
out, commence turning and turn constantly thereafter 
until the meat is done, which may be determined by run- 
ning a skewer into the breast and when this draws out 
easily the chicken will have been sufficiently cooked. 
Serve on buttered toast, distributing butter also in pieces 
over the fowl and send it to table very hot. 



Note. — Unless a very young spring chicken is used for broiling 
it will be better that the fowl should have a slight preparatory cook- 
ing by steaming which may be done by putting the chicken into the 
broiler and laying this over a baking pan of boiling water, then cov 
ering it with a plate, set all into the oven for about twenty minutes. 

If the broiling iire smokes in the least, throw upon it a handful of 
■alt, which will at once clear it, and prevent the fowl tasting smoky. 



68 ME A TS. 

Fork Satisages. — One pound of pork sausages, 
one and one-half pounds of raw potatoes, one tablespoon- 
ful of cream, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Put the potatoes pared, into a saucepan, cover them 
with cold water, and bringing them quickly to the boiling 
point over a brisk fire, throw in the salt. Boil them now 
rapidly until they begin to break on the surfaces when 
they will be half cooked, and the water should be strained 
carefully off them, the saucepan closely covered, and 
drawn to the side of the fire, that they may finish epoking 
in their own steam. When a skewer will go into them 
readily, set the potatoes for a moment, with the saucepan 
uncovered, full over the fire, that the dampness of the 
steam may dry off, and while hot mash them finely, adding 
the cream, pepper and butter, after which again cover 
them closely in order that they may keep hot while the 
sausages are being prepared. 

Prick through the skin of the sausages now with a fork 
in various places that they may not burst with the steam 
that will be generated in them under the action of heat, 
and placing them in a cold frying pan, put them over a 
moderate fire, that the fat may draw out in which to cook 
them, and fry for ten minutes. 

Take up then the potatoes and fill them into the hot- 

. torn of a small hot platter, and smooth them down with ^ 

knife blade that has been dipped in milk, to a flat bed 

about an inch in thickness, and across this bed arrange 

the sausage lengths at regular intervals. 



Notes. — If the gravy from the pan is used at all it mnst be served 
by itself in a gravy boat. 



FRIED CHICKEN WITH CHIVES. 6g 

Liver and Bacon. — One-half pound of calf's liver, 
one-half pound of bacon, one-half ounce of flour, one- 
half pint of second stock, one dessert spoonful of mush- 
room catsup, six drops of caramel, one saltspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Having "been very carefully washed, the liver must be 
cut into thin slices and dried in a towel. Next slice the 
bacon thinly and cut off the rind, when it must be put 
into a frying pan, placed over a moderate fire, and cooked 
for five minutes, turning it once meantime. 

Take the bacon now from the pan, arrange it upon a 
hot platter and place in the warming oven to prevent its 
cooling. 

In the grease drawn from the bacon, put then the 
slices of liver and fry for ten minutes, turning, them once 
while frying. Remove the liver from the frying-pan to 
the platter containing the bacon, and stir into the pan 
the flour into which stir the stock also, when the flour has 
become well saturated with the grease and browned. 

Stir this mixture until it boils, when the catsup, pep- 
per, salt and caramel must be added, and the whole poured 
over the liver and bacon. 



Note. — Sheep's liver may be used for this dish, but when it is used 
it should be par-boiled before frying. 

Fried Chicken 'with Chives. — Onfe young fowl, 
two dozen chives, two ounces of flour, two ounces of but- 
ter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
white pepper. 

First prepare the chives by cleaning and cutting the 
green tops into thin rings, throw them then into boiling 
water to soak for five minutes, and while they are soak- 



^o 



ME A TS. 



ing, joint the chicken and wash it lightly in cold water. 
Season the flour with the pepper and salt, and dip into it 
each piece of the fowl, and throw them into hot clarified 
fat, letting them fry for ten minutes. While the fowl is 
frying remove the chives from the boiling water and dry 
them in a towel. Melt now in a frying pan the butter, 
and fry in it the chives taking care that they do not burn, 
then removing the joints of chicken from the fat, drain 
them for a moment upon a sheet of kitchen paper when 
they must be placed upon a hot platter and the chives 
distributed over them. 



MEATS— SIXTH DIVISION. 

GAME. 

Haunch of Venison. — ^ix pounds of venison, five 
ounces of butter, one-half pint of claret, one-half pint of 
cold water, one and One-half ounces of flour, six drops of 
caramel, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper. 

Coyer the venison with a double sheet of greased 
kitchen paper and secure it against slipping with a wrap- 
ping of twine. Place the meat in a roasting-pan, ' dis- 
tribute over it, upon the paper, two ounces of the butter 
in small pieces and putting the pan into a hot oven, 
roast the venison for one hour basting from time to time 
as the butter melts. 

At the end of this time cut the twine and, removing the 
paper, rub over the meat the remainder of the butter. 

Pour into the roasting-pan half of the claret and allow- 
ing the venison to remain in the oven three quarters of an 



JUGGED HARE. •j\ 

hour longer, basting it constantly with the wine and but- 
ter gravy. ^ 

Transfer the venison now to a hot platter and skim 
the top of the gravy remaining in the pan. Stir into the 
gravy when skimmed, the flour, and scrape down into it 
with a cooking spoon, all the brown juices that may have 
adhered to the pan. Add to this the remaining water 
and claret, season with the pepper and salt, and pouring 
the gravy then from the roasting pan into a small sauce- 
pan place this over the fire and bring its contents quickly 
to the boiling point, when dropping in the caramel, all 
should be stirred quickly together and the gravy be then 
poured, very hot, around the venison. 

Roast haunch of venison is usually served with an 
accompaniment of currant jelly. 

Jugged Hare. — One hare, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, three ounces of butter, one Bermuda onion, six 
cloves, one-half pint of brown stock, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one dessert spoonful 
of mushroom catsup, one dessert spoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce- 
When the hare is caught, skin and clean it, dip a towel 
in boiling water and wipe it carefully over to remove the 
loose hairs. Dry the animal then thoroughly and cut it 
into convenient pieces. 

Put the flour upon a plate and roll each piece of meat 
until entirely covered in this. Melt in a frying pan the 
butter and placing the pieces of hare into it fry each one 
until brown upon both sides. 

Place now in a stone jug or jar, the stock, catsup and 
Worcestershire sauce, season these with the pepper and 
sjilt and then pack the pieces of hare with this niixtur? 



72 MEA TS. 

into the jug. Cover the jug to confine the steam and 
placing it in a large saucepan of boiling water, let it cook 
therein for three hours. 

While the hare is being jugged a large platter should 
be covered with a flaky crust — see page 183 and this baked 
in the oven half an hour, and when the hare is done the 
pieces thereof should be taken \from the jug and placed 
upon the prepared platter, and such gravy as may have 
gathered in the jug be poured over all. 

Note; — If a stone jug be not available for this use, a stone jar of 
suitable size may be substituted. 

Roast Pheasant. — One pair of pheasants, one- 
quarter of a pound of, butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of pepper, six tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

When the pheasants have been plucked, singed and 
drawn, chop off the claws and dip them into boiling water 
in order that the skin may be pulled easily from them. 
Which dp. Twist then the point of the wings behind the 
neck, pass a skewer through them at the first joint piercing 
the top of both legs and straight through the body in the 
process to hold the birds in proper form for roasting and 
serving. Tie the legs together just above the claws, after 
which prepare the dressing by placing the bread crumbs 
into a bowl, together with the chopped patrsley, pepper 
arid salt, and knead all together with two ounces of the 
butter. 

Stuff the breast of each bird with this dressing, sew 
together the incision at the neck when this is done with a 
needle and piece of thread, and place the pheasants side 
by side in a coasting pan, distribute the remaining butter 



ROAST GROUSE. 



n 



in small pieces over the breast of each; and putting the 
pan in a moderate oven, roast the birds therein for an hour 
and a half, basting them constantly with the butter as it 
melts. 

Serve the pheasants upon a hot platter and with bread 
and brown sauce sent to the table in separate gravy boats. 

Note. — Bread and brown sauces, see p^es 165-166. 

Partridge Pie. — One brace of partridge, one pound 
of filet of veal, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, three 
gills of brown stock, four ounces of butter, one dessert 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pluck, draw and singe the partridges after which split 
each in halves. Put into each half a piece of butter, 
sprinkling them also with a little pepper and salt Place 
then in the bottom of a deep pie dish the filet of veal, 
sprinkle over it the chopped parsjey and putting the halves 
of partridge upon this, line the edge of the dish with a 
strip of puff paste, — seepage 182, pour over all the' stock, 
and cover over all a blanket of the paste rolled to half an 
inch in thickness. Bake the pie in a quick oven for an 
hour and a half. 



Note. — If desired half a pound of lean bacon may be placed upon 
the veal as a flavoring ingredient. 

Roast Grouse. — Two brace of grouse, one-half 
pound of butter, one dessert spoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 

The birds should hang in a cool place at least three 
days after being shot, when they should be plucked, singed 
and drawn, and wiped outside and inside with a cle^n 
cloth- 



74 



ME A TS. 



Sprinkle them each then thoroughly inside with the 
pepper, divide the butter into four equal parts and place 
one of these inside each as well. 

Place the birds then side by side in a baking pan and 
putting this into a quick oven, let all bake for half an hour. 

When the grouse are roasted, arrange some slices of 
buttered toast upon a platter, place the birds upon these, 
and pouring over them the gravy from the pan serve very 
hot. 

Bread sauce should be served with roast birds. See 
page 165. 

Canvass-back Duck. — ^One pair of canvass-back 
duck, one-quarter of a pound of butter, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Carefully pluck, draw and singe the fowls, wash them 
slightly, and dry them in and outside with a' towel. 
Sprinkle inside of each the pepper and salt, sp^read the 
butter well over the breasts, and placing them side by side 
upon a dripping pan, bake in a very quick hot oven fifteen 
minutes. The blood should follow the knife when carved, 
if the^uck be properly cooked. 

Cut into slices some cold boiled hominy, fry them to 
a light brown in butter, and arranging these upon a plat- 
ter serve the fowl upon this with an accompaniment of 
currant jelly. 

Reed Birds. — Six reed birds, one-half pound of fat 
bacon, one dessert spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
pepper. 

When the birds are plucked, singed and drawn they 
should be carefully cleansed inside and out with a dry 
towel. 

Cut the bacon then into very thin slices and folding 



SQVABS WITH GREEN PHAS. 75 

one of these slices over the breast of each bird, securing it 
there Vith a wrapping of twine, string the birds upon a 
spit with the breasts all turned the same way and broil 
over an open fire for twenty minutes. 

Serve upon a hot platter garnished with fresh sprigs of 
parsley or with water-cresses. 

Woodcock on Toast, — Two brace of woodcock, 
four ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 

When plucked and singed the woodcock should be 
drawn, cutting out the neck, but leaving the head which 
must be drawn around and the long bill passed through 
the legs, wings and body as a trussing skewer. 

Season each by rubbing a little pepper and salt inside, 
string them upon a spit, rub over each breast a portion of 
the butter, and broil the birds over an open fire for twenty 
minutes. 

The livers should now be boiled for five minutes, 
pounded in a mortar or chopped very finely, and this paste 
being spread over two slices of butter toast, the toast 
should be placed upon a hot platter and the woodcock 
served thereon. 



Note. — Quail, snipe and larks may be served and prepared as 
pTcsciibed for woodcock. 

Squabs -with G-reen Peas. — One pair of squabs, 
one pint of shelled green peas, two ounces of butter, one 
gill of stock, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
of pepper. , 

Pluck, singe, draw and wash the pigeons slightly 
in cold water. Twist the tips of the wings behind the 
shoulders and threading a trussing-needle with fine twine, 



76 MEATS. 

pierce with it the first joint of the wings, passing "through 
the upper portion of the legs and straight through the 
body in doing so. Return the needle then through 
the tips of the wings, piercing through the skin of the 
neck in passing and bringing the twine thus to its 
point of departure, draw it taut and tie the ends firmly 
together. 

The claws should now be chopped oflF and crossing the 
legs tie them, neatly together, after which melt in a stewing 
pan two ounces of butter and when the smoke arises there- 
from, put the pigeons into it breast downwards, and allow 
them to cook slowly for one hour, turning them from time 
to time, to prevent burning and in order that they may 
brown evenly. 

At the end of th0 hour the butter in which the squabs 
have cooked must be drained off, and the stock poured 
over them in which they must be allowed to cook for five 
minutes. 

Put then in with the squabs the peas, season them with 
the salt and pepper, and let all cook veiy slowly for 
twenty additional minutes. 

At the end of this time remove the pigeons from the 
stewing pan, cut and draw out the 'trussing strings, and 
arranging the birds lipon a hot platter, pour the peas and 
the reduced stock around them. Serve very hot. 

Stewed Wild Pigeons. — Four wild pigeons, one 
quart of stock, one ounce of flour, one teaspoonful of 
salt, six cloves, one blade of mace, one Bermuda onion, 
one-half teaspoonful of peppercorns, one tablespoonful of 
mushroom caisup, eight drops of caramel. 

When the pigeons have been plucked, singed and 
drawn they must be cut into quarters, first splitting them. 



KROMESQUtES RUSSB. 77 

through from breast to back, and then separating these 
halves into wing and drumstick quarters. 

Place these quarters into a stew pan, cover them with 
the stock and when this boils up skim the surface care- 
fully, throw in the mace, peppercorns, cloves, chopped 
onion and salt, when covering the saucepan draw it to one 
side of the fire and allow its contents to simmer very 
slowly until the pigeons become tender, the length of 
time for which depends entirely upon their age. 

Put the flour now into a bowl, beat it smooth with a 
little cold water, add to this the catsup and caramel, and 
pouring this mixture into the saucepan with the pigeons 
stir all together until boiling again, when it must continue 
to boil for ten minutes and the pigeons then be trans- 
ferred to a deep platter and the sauce from the saucepan 
strained over them. 

ENTREMETS. 

E[romesquies Russe. — One-quarter of a pound of 
raw bacon, one quarter of a pound of cold turkey, two 
ounces of cold tongue, one ounce of butter, four ounces 
of flour, one gill of milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
one dessert spoonful of salad oil, one gill of tepid water, 
white of one egg. 

Cut the turkey and the tongue into small equal pieces, 
melt in a saucepan the butter, stir into it one ounce of the 
flour, and add to this by degrees the milk and Stir all until 
boiling. When boiling, allow the mixture to cook for two 
minutes, when the saucepan must be drawn aside from the 
fire, and the turkey and tongue thrown into it. 



78 ENTREMETS. 

Season all now with the pepper and salt, add to it the 
nutmeg, and turn the entire contents of the saucepan out 
upon a plate and allow it to become cold. 

While this is cooling put into a bowl three ounces of 
the flour, pour into the centre thereof a dessert spoonful 
of salad oil, and throwing over this the gill of tepid water, 
beat all well together. 

Place upon a plate the white of egg and whip it to a 
very stiff froth, mix the egg lightly with the coi|tents of 
the bowl, exercising care not to break the froth, after 
which the bacon must be sliced very thinly and cut into 
pieces about three inches square. 

When the turkey and tongue compound has grown 
very cold roll a little of it into each piece of bacon, then 
dipping each little bacon-roll into the batter in the bowl, 
drop them into hot clarified fat of which there should be 
enough to cover them, and fry for five minutes. 

Drain them when done upon a sheet of kitchen paper 
pile them high upon a hot napkin and serve garnished with 
sprigs of parsl.ey^ 



Notes — By tepid water is meant two part of cold and pne part of 
boiling water. 

When bot clari6ed fat is not convenient lard may be substituted 
for this as for other frying purposes. 

Onxxy with boiled rice^— Two pounds of yeal, 
two ounces of bjitter, one Bermuda onion, two dessert 
spoonfuls of curry-powder, one apple, three gills of stock, 
two tablespoonfuls of cream, one-half of a lemon, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. \ 

First melt the butter in a small saucepan and add to it 
the onion very finely chopped. With an iron spoon toss 



cVrr y iviTJi BoiLMb kick. 75 

the onion about in the pan until it comes to a pale brown 
color, then strain from it the butter, and put the onion 
aside upon a plate until it is required. 

Return the butter to the saucepan and wheijt again 
hot throw into it the veal which first must have been cut 
into small square pieces. Brown the meat well upon all 
sides and when this is done, stir in the curry-powder, 
and draw the saucepan aside from the fire. 

Dry then in a towel the appl© and grate it with a car- 
rot-grater over the veal in the sauce-pan. Return the 
saucepan to the fire, add to its contents the salt and the 
stock, stir all until boiling and then put in the browned 
onion. 

After the onion has been thrown in draw the saucepan 
again aside from the blaze of the fire and leave all to sim- 
mer, uncovered, for two hours for the purpose of reduc- 
ing the sauce. 

Just before ready for serving, stir in the cream, squeeze 
over it the lemon-juice and dish up at once. 

This should be served with boiled rice which must be 
prepared as follows : 

Take three;-quarters of a pound of dry rice, and put- 
ting it into a strainer, wash thoroughly with running 
water. When washed throw the rice into a large sauce- 
pan two-thirds filled with boiling water, into which has 
been put a dessert spoonful of salt. Cover the saucepan 
tightly until the water boils up, when the lid should be 
taken off and the rice left to boil very rapidly for fifteen 
minutes. At the end of fifteen minutes, take out of the 
pan a kernel of the rice and if it flours by rubbing between 
the thumb and finger, it is sufficiently cooked but if not 
yet done— the length of time required depending upon 



go ENTREMETS. 

whether the grain be or be not freshly gathered, it must 
bei kept boiling a few minutes longer, keeping in mind the 
fact that rice musi be boiled quickly^ otherwise it will/be 
transformed into a starchy jelly. . 

Throw the rice when done into a cullender that it may 
be thoroughly drained of water and serve very hot with 
the. curry, but in separate dishes. 

V 

Notes. — The reason for browning the onion separately from the 

meat is that the veal requires so much longer time to brown than the 

onion that the vegetable would be reduced to a crisp before the meat 

could be done. 

, Lean mutton, rabbit and chicken may also be curried in this way. 

Rissoles of Veal.— One pound of filet of veal, one 
quarter of pound of suet, one pound of bread crumbs, 
, onerhalf pint of milk, two eggs, one saltspoonful of pow- 
dered maccj one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
of pepper, one ounce of butter, one-half ounce of flour, 
one-half pint of white stock. 

Remove the skin from the veal, chop it very finely' 
after which pound it weir in a mortar. 

Put into a bowl three-quarters of a pound of the 
bread crumbs, pour the milk oyer, and allow the crumbs 
to soak therein for ten minutes, then pouring the bread 
crumbs from the bowl into a towel, twist the ends of the 
towel in the hands and press from them as much of the 
milk as may be. 

Mix the bread crumbs with the pounded veal, season 
the mixture with the mace, pepper and nearly all o^ the 
salt, drop into it then the yolks of egg, and beat all to- 
gether with the finely chopped suet. 
< Roll the compound then into small balls, dipping each 
into the beaten whites of egg, and then into the remain' 



BEEF OLIVES. 8t 

ing bread crumbs, after which they must be thrown into 
hot clarified fat and fried for ten minutes. 

While the rissoles are frying, melt , the butter in a 
small saucepan, stir into it the flour, then, add ,by degrees 
the stock, stirring all until it boils, when it must be sea- 
soned with the salt and allowed to cook for two minutes. 

Drain the rissoles when fried upon a sheet of kitchen 
paper, and serve upon a hot platter with the sauce poured 
around. 

Beef Olives. — One and one-half pounds' of round 
steak, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one dessert 
spoonful of parsley, one egg, one ounce of butter, one 
dessert spoonful of mushroom catsup, one dessert spoon- 
ful of Harvey's sauce, one-half ounce of flour, six drops 
of caramel, one-half pint of second stock, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Put the sprigs of parsley into cold water, wash it well, 
picking the stalk from it, and then dry thoroughly by 
wrapping it in a towel and wringing the water therefrom. 
Place it upon a board, chop very finely, and mix with it 
the bread crumbs. Drop into this the egg, seasoning all 
with the pepper and salt, and mix the whole well to- 
gether. 

The fat must now be trimmed from the steak and cut 
into little pieces, and the steak itself cut into squares, 
four inches in size. \ 

Into each of the pieces of steak, put an equal part of 
the fat and bread crumb dressing, make them into rolls 
and tie around them a piece of twine. 

Heat the butter now in a saucepan, and brown the 
rolls therein. 

While the rolls are browning, put the flour into a 



82 ENTREMETS. 

bowl and make it smooth with a tablespoonful of stock, 
and when smooth add to it the catsup, caramel and Har- 
vey's sauce, after which the remaining stock should be 
put in cold, and pour all over the browned olive-rolls, 
stirring until the liquid boils. 

When boiling, skim, and then covering the saucepan, 
allow the whole to simmer slowly for an hour and a half. 

At the end of this time take up the olives, and cutting 
the strings therefrom, pour over them the gravy from the 
pan. 

Fricassee of S'weet-Breads.— one pair of 
sweet-breads, two ounces of butter, one-half ounce of 
flour, one egg, two tablespoonful^ of cream, one teacup- 
ful of white stock, one dessert spoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Let the sweet-breads lie for an hour in iced water 
preparatory to cooking, at the end of which they should 
be put iiito a saucepan, covered with cold water aud 
placed over tlje fire where, when boiling, they should be 
left for five minutes. 

Take them then from the fire and throw them into a 
basin of cold water to whiten, after which draw off the 
outer casing, and cut them into thin slices. 

Melt in a saucepan the butter, stir into it the flour 
and add the stock, when all must be stirred until it 
boils. Put into this the sliced sweet-breads, season all 
with the pepper and salt, addii^g the nutmeg, and cover- 
ing the saucepan, let the whole simmer slowly for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Just before the sweet-bteads are ready for serving, 
beat up the egg until very light, mix well with it the 



LARDED SWEET-BREADS. 83 

cream and chopped parsley, and moving the saucepan 
off the fire, stir this mixture in with the sweet-breads, and 
stir all together for two minutes, taking care that it does 
not boil. 

This should be served immediately and very hot, 
that the eggs may not get heavy. 

Larded Sweet-breads. — One pair of sweet- 
breads, two ounces of fat bacon, one-half pint of stock, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonf ul of pepper, 
one lemon, four drops of caramel, one-half ounce of flour. 

The sweet-breads must be first thrown into boiling 
water, boiled for five minutes and then put into iced water 
for half an hour. 

Cut the bacon into thin strips two inches long and one- 
third of an inch in thickness, and when the sweet-breads 
have been taken from the water and dried thoroughly in a 
towel, thread the strips of bacon into a larding needle and 
lard the sweet-breads thickly, making a deep, long stitch 
as the flesh of the sweet-bread is so apt to break. 

When larded, place the sweet-bread into a stewing-pan 
and 'pour over it the stock, boiling hot. 

Cook them slowly for half an hour, when they must 
be put into a slightly greased baking tin, set into a hot 
oven, and baked for fifteen minutes. 

While the sweet-breads are cooking, stir into the stock 
in the saucepan half an ounce of the flour, add to it the 
caramel, aud let all cook for two minutes, when it should 
be seasoned with the pepper and salt. 

When the sweet-breads have baked the fifteen minutes, 
take them from the oven and putting them upon a small, 
hot platter, pour around them the sauce from the pan and 
gamiih with the lemon, sliced. 



84 ENTREMETS. 

Vol-au-Vent of Sweet-breads. — Six ounces of 
flour, six ounces of butter, yolk of one egg, one teaspoon- 
ful of lemon-juice, one-half gill of cold water, one gill of 
milk, one- half teaspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of 
pepper, one grain of cayenne, one pair of sweet-breads. 

First put the flour upon a. mixing board, make a little 
well in the centre thereof, and drop into it the egg and 
half of the lemon-juice, adding by degrees the cold water, 
kneading all meantime firmly together and when kneaded, 
roll out thinly. 

Into the centre of the rolled paste put five ounces 
of the butter, fold the edges together until the butter is 
covered, and, flouring a rolling-pin, roll out as thinly 
as possible. Fold the crust now into three layers and 
roll out again and ,repeat this process of folding and 
rolling seven times, when it should be put into the ice-box 
and left long enough to become chilled through and firm. 

Take the sweet-breads, first thoroughly washing them, 
and putting them into a saucepan, cover with cold water 
and bringing the water to the boiling point; allow them 
to boil in it for five minutes, when they should be again 
thrown into cold water, rewashed, and cut into small , 
pieces. 

Now put the butter and milk into a saucepan over the 
fire and when the milk boils, put into the pan also the 
pieces of sweet-bread, season them with the cayenne pep- 
per and salt, and let all simmer slowly for three-quarters'' 
of an hour. 

When the crust has become cool ^nd firm in the ice- 
box, take it out and placing it upon the mixing board roll 
it out to about a third of an inch in thickness. Cut out 
tyro yol-au-vent with the vol-au-vent cutter, or a biscuft 



CHA UD-FROID OF CHICKEN. 



8S 



cutter if the first be not convenient, cut in each a 
smaller circle, about one inch from the edges, half way 
through the crust, and placing both upon a baking tin, 
bake in a hot quick oven for twenty minutes. 

When done remove the crust from the inner circle by 
slipping in a knife-blade and splitting it asunder, scrape 
out the centre of the vol-au-vent in order to make a hol- 
low in which to pack the sweet-breads, put into each equal 
parts of the sweet-bread, sprinkle over the meat the re- 
mainder of the lemon-juice, cover over it the little baked 
circle previously split out, garnish with fresh sprigs of 
parsley and send to table in a hot napkin. 



Notes — The difficulty in making the vol-au-vent paste lies in its 
becoming heated in rolling and the butter, which is used in excessive 
proportion, running in consequence. This may be prevented by put- 
ting it to cool between rollings and taking a little longer time for its 
preparation. 

It is really pufif-paste that is used for the vol-au-vent and the crust 
should rise in baking at least three inches. 

Chaud-froid of Chicken. — One young fowl, two 
ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, one-half pint of 
milk, one gill of cream, one saltspoonful of salt, one salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, one quart of second stock, 
one-half ounce of gelatine, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
one sprig of parsley, one gill of cold water, whites cif 
three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of black pepper. 

This dish requires two days for its preparation, and 
therefore its use must be anticipated. 

Melt first the gelatine in half of the cold water, and let 
it stand for ten minutes ; put then the stock into a copper 
or porcelain-lined saucepan, add to it the vinegar, parsley 



86 ENTREMETS. 

black pepper and half of the salt, place it over the fire, 
and when tepid put into it the gelatine. 

Beat the whites of the eggs well in a bowl, with which 
mix the remainder of the cold water, pour this into the 
stock and whisk all together until the stock boils, using 
either two forks or an egg-whisk. 

The instant the stock boils, cover the saucepan and 
draw it aside from the fire, let it simmer here slowly for 
twenty minutes, when it should be strained into a basin 
through a clean towel. 

Let this preparation stand over night, as it will not 
cool through and set in shorter time. 

Clean and wash also the fowl, then plunging it into 
boiling water, let it cook until a skewer will pierce easily 
into the breast, when it must be immediately taken out, 
and it also allowed to stand over night to become thor- 
oughly cooled. 

Having prepared the material in the above manner, 
upon the day the chaud-froid is to be used, cut first the 
wings and legs from the fowl and trim them neatly ; cut 
also two filets from the breast, taking care not to break 
the crisp grain of the meat. Melt now in a porcelain- 
lined or copper saucepan the butter, stir into it the flour, 
add by, degrees the milk and stir all until boiling, when 
the mixture must be seasoned with the white pepper and ^ 
salt, the cream added and stirred carefully until it has 
boiled for two minutes. 

Take the saucepan from the fire and put with its con- 
tents a dessert spoonful of the cold jelly, draw the skin 
off the pieces of fowl and dip them into this sauce, when 
they are to be placed in a sieve and left about thirty 
minutea to cool, 



CHICKSN CROQUETTES. %y 

When the sauce is quite cold upon the pieces of fowl, 
arrange them neatly into the bottom of a flat dish, chop 
roughly the jelly and scatter it around and garnish the 
dish either with fresh sprigs of parsley, or with parsley 
finely chopped and sprinkled over. 

Notes — Small pieces of cold turkey may be made up in this way, 
into a most delicious entree. 

A leek or onion may be used to flavor the sauce, being put in, if 
used, with the parsley. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One-half of a cold chicken, 
six mushrooms, one gill of stock, two tablespoonsfuls of 
cream, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoOnful 
of pepper, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, two eggs, 
six tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ounce of butter, 
one ounce of flour. 

The skin must first be taken from the cold chicken 
and the bones removed, when the meat should be chopped 
very finely, and the mushrooms, having been also well 
washed and chopped, must be mixed therewith. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir into it the flour, 
add by degrees the stock, stirring until it boils and then 
put into it the cream. Season with the pepper and salt, 
flavor with the nutmeg, and let all cook briskly for two 
minutes. When this has cooked, remove the sauce^ 
pan from the fire, stir into it the chopped chicken and 
mushrooms, and pour all out upon a plate to cool. 

When quite cold separate into equal parts, and form 
the compound with the hands to something near the shape 
of a pear, beat the eggs well upon a plate, roll each cro- 
quette therein, and placing the bread crumbs upon paper, 
roll each also in this, and throwing them into hot clari- 
fied, fat, fry for two minutes. 



88 ENTREMETS. 

When done take them from the fat, drain upon a 
piece of paper, and if the pear-shapes are a success, 
thrust into the small end of each a clipping of parsley 
stalk, for the purpose of increasing the similitude by fur- 
nishing stems. 

Quinelles of Veal. — One pound of filet of veal, 
two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, one-half pint 
of second stock, two eggs, one gill of cream, one tea 
spoonful of lemon juice, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspdonful of white pepper. 

Mix together in a saucepan one ounce of butter and 
one ounce of flour, add to these one gill of stock, and 
' stirring all until boiling, let it boil for two minutes there- 
after. Turn out this mixture after thie two minutes upon 
a plate, and let it get cold. ] 

While this is cooling, put the veal upon a board, and 
removing the outer skin, chop it very finely* after which 
put into a mortar and pound thoroughly, when it must 
be rubbed through a wire sieve, which will bring the 
meat to the smoothness of a paste. 

Then put into the mortar the cooled mixture from 
the plate, drop into it one egg, pound these well to- 
gether, add then the veal and the. remaining egg, and 
seasoning all with half of the salt and pepper, use again 
the pestle until all of these ingredients become smoothly 
blended. 

Grease now a saut6 or perfectly fresh frying pan, 
prepare two dessert spoons by dipping them into boiling 
water, and taking one in the right hand and the other in 
the left, dip into the mortar the right hand spoon, filling 
it with the paste, and, with the left hand spoon scoop the 
mixture from the one to the other, forming thus the 



GRENADiNBS OF VEAL. 89 

quinelles, when they must be put into the sautfe-pan 
carefully, that they may not lose their shape, and when 
the pan is so filled, pour in at the side as much boiling 
water as will cover the quinelles, when they should be 
placed over a slow fire and allowed to poach for ten 
minutes. 

Now melt in a small saucepan the remaining ounde 
of butter, stir into it the remaining ounce of flour, add 
by degrees a gill of stock and let all boil up. When 
boiling, pour in the cream, season With pepper and salt, 
and taking it from the fire, add then the lemon-juice. 

Arrange the quinelles when done, and taken from the 
water, in a circle upon a flat dish, and pour the sauce 
around them. 



Note — ^When a mortar and pestle are not available, the veal may 
be first cooked a little in boiling stock, and then chopped as finely as 
possible, before being passed through the sieve. 

Grenadines of Veal. — Two pounds of filet of 
veal, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, one pint 
of white stock, six ounces of fat bacon, one teaspoonful 
of whole white pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt. 

Removing the skin from the veal, cut it into shapely 
oval pieces about half an inch in thickness. Cut the 
bacon into thin strips two inches long and one-third 
of an inch wide, and threading a larding needle ivith 
the bacon, lard the ovals of veal as thickly as possible 
with it. 

Place in a saucepan the vegetables cut in small 
pieces, over which sprinkle the pepper and salt, and 
pouring in around the vegetables the stock, bring all to 
the boiling point. 



90 



ENTREMETS. 



When the stock boils, place upon the vegetables the 
ovals of veal, taking care that they do not overlap one 
another, and covering the saucepan, closely draw it aside 
from the fire and allow the contents to cook slowly for 
three-quarters of an hour, basting occasionally meantime 
with the stock. 

Take the grenadines now from the saucepan, place 
them upon a slightly greased baking-tin and brown them 
in a quick oven. 

While the gfcenadines are browning, put the saucepan 
again over the fire, uncovered, and let the stock reduce as 
fast as possible. 

When all is done, arrange the grenadines tastefully in 
a flat vegetable dish and pour through a strainer over 
them as sauce, the vegetable flavored stock. 

Talleyrand Outlets.— Two pounds of filet of veal> 
three ounces of butter, one dessert spoonful of chopped 
parsley, one-half dozen of mushrooms, one eschalot, one- 
half ounpe of flour, yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful 
of cream, one-balf teaspoonful of salt, one-halif teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, one-half pint of white stock. 

Cut the veal into small equal o^als and place them in 
a saut^ or very clean frying pan together with two ounces 
of butter. Over a slow fire cook the meat for five minutes 
in order to whiten it, being careful to turn the pieces and 
not to let the butter brown. 

Draw the pan then from the fire and sprinkle over the 
meat the chopped parsley, the mushrooms and eschalot 
which muist also have been chopped, and melting in a 
separate saucepan the remaining ounce of butter, stir into 
it the flour, add by degrees the stock, and bring all to the 
boil, and the instant this is accomplished, poiir all over 



TIMBALES. 



91 



the veal in the sautiepan and leave all to cook for twenty 
minutes very slowly turning the meat and the saucepan 
constantly while cooking, to prevent the meat discoloring. 

Prepare now in a bowl the yolks of egg and cream, 
season this with the pepper and salt, when the veal should 
be taken from the saucepan and arranged upon a flat dish, 
and the cream and egg stirred into the saucepan with the 
sauce. 

The contents of the saucepan must not be allowed to 
boil after the yolks of egg are added but as soon as thef 
sauce thickens with them by simmering slowly, it must be 
poured over the veal. 

Timbales. — One-quarter of a pound of maccaroni, 
one-half pound of cold roast beef, four ounces of bread 
crumbs, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one-half 
teaspoonful of pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of catsup, one tablespoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce, two eggs, three gills of stock. 

The maccaroni must first be well washed in cold water 
then put into a saucepan, covered with cold water, put 
on the fire and boiled for fifteen minutes. 

Now grease twelve deep cup tins or ordinary teacups. 
When the maccaroni is boiled, drain the water from 
it, and drying it lightly in a towel, cut it intp inch 
lengths and arrange these lengths upon end in the cup 
tins. 

Chop the cold meat very finely and putting it into a 
bowl, mix with it the bread crumbs and season this with 
the pepper and salt, adding also a little of the Worcester- 
shire sauce and half of the catsup. 

Drop in upon this the egg together with a tablespoon- 
ful of the stock, and when the whole has been well mixed 



92 ENTREMkTS.. 

together, separate it into equal quantities, put a portion 
into each of the cups and press it snugly down upon the 
maccaroni with the blade of a knife. 

Each tin or cup must be now covered with a small 
piece of kitchen paper and all placed in a shallow sauce- 
pan in which there is boiling water sufficient to reach half 
way up their sides, when the saucepan should be covered 
and the timbales allowed to cook very slowly for one hour, 
boiling water being added from time to time to keep the 
quantity the same. 

Five minutes before the hour expires the butter and 
flour must be mixed together in a small saucepan, to which 
add the. stock and when this mixture boils add the re- 
mainder of the catsup and the Worcestershire sauce, also 
the remainder of the pepper and salt, and allow all to cook 
for two minutes. 

When the timbales are done, turn them carefully out 
in regular order upon a large, deep platter, and pour the 
sauce around them, taking care not to spatter the tops. 



Notes — In using catsup, caution should be exercised in the use 
of salt, as all catsups are highly salted in preparation. 

Fresh beefsteak may also be used for this dish, with the difiFerence 
that uncooked meat will require a little more time over the fire. 

Filet of Beef, 'with sauce Hollandais.— One 

and one-half pounds of filet of, beef, one pound of pota- 
toes, yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of cold water, 
one tablespoonful of cream, one ounce of butter, one-half 
tablespoonful of lemon-juice, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt. 

The filet must first be cut into slices nearly an inch in 
thickness, place them then upon a slightly greased grid- 



Cutlets A-LA-MARECHAL. g^ 

iron and boil over a clear fire for seven minutes, turning 
them constantly meantime. 

Take then a small tin saucepan, put into it the yolks 
of egg, pour over them the cold water, and whisk until 
wdl mixed, with two forks or an egg whisk. Add the 
cream, lemon-juice and butter, season with a very little 
of the pepper and salt, and place the saucepan either in 
a larger saucepan of boiling water, or over a very slow 
fire, and whisk the contents until the butter melts, and 
it rises to a froth. 

The slices of beef must now be arranged on a dish in 
a circle, the end of one piece being made to lap upon the 
other until the circle is complete^ when the sauce should 
be poured over, and the whole garnished with a sprink- 
ling of chopped parsley. / 

Around the meat there should be now placed a row 
of potato balls, which must be prepared in the following 
manner : 

Pare and wash the pound of potatoes, and cut from 
them with a French vegetable cutter, as many balls as 
the potatoes will furnish. Dry the balls well in a towel, 
and throw them into hot clarified fat or lard, for four 
minutes. When fried, drain them for a moment upon 
a piece of kitchen paper, and transfer them to the 
dish. 

Cutlets a.-la-]y[arechal. — Five mutton cutlets, 
one dessert spoonful of parsley, two ounces of veal, one 
saltspoonful of nutmeg, one tablespobnful of cream, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, 
one-half dozen mushrooms, two tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one egg, two ounces of clarified fat. 

Chop the veal very finely, and pound it in a mortar 



94 



ENTREMETS. 



rub it when poundedj through a wire sieve, and add to it 
the chopped parsley,, season with a very little pepper and 
salt, and flavor with the nutmeg, and stir all to a con- 
sistency with! the cream. 

Take the cutlets and trim them neatly, leaving on a 
part of the fat, and roll them in the egg which must 
have been previously beaten. 

Put the bread crumbs into a paper, and seasoning 
them with the remainder of the pepper and salt, roll the 
cutlets in this also ; make hot in a frying pan the clari- 
fied fat, and when the smoke arises, put into it the cutlets, 
arid fry them for eight minutes, turning them once, and 
allowing four minutes. ' 

When fried take them from the fat, and Spread over 
each one an equal quantity of the veil mixture from the 
mortar, chop the mushrooms and sprinkle a little of this 
over each, and put them into a moderate oven and let 
them bake for ten minutes. 

Serve in a hot napkin garnished with sprigs of parsley. 



General Remarks. — Bermuda and Spanish is applied to onions 
in a descriptive sense. Bermuda signifying a small onion or of the 
•size of a Bermuda onion, and Spanish onion meaning a large onion 
or of the size of a Spanish onion, although if these especial growths 
of onions are to be conveniently procured, they will be found of su- 
perior quality to the ordinary. 

Specified quantities of salt are given in the foregoing recipes in 
order to preserve proportions, but the use of this seasoning may be 
governed by the respective palates of those for whom the dishes are 
prepared, keeping in mind that while more may be required by those 
who are excessively fond of salt, less is always safer, as to s^t a dish 
is easy, while to freshen one that is over salted and acrid therefrom, 
is generally impossible. 

Harvey's and Worcestershire sauce being nearly the samej may be 



SPINACH WtTti MGGS. 



95 



substituted for each other as convenience may require, but the result 
will be more satisfactory from using each as directed. 

The recipes throughout this work have been kept as nearly as pos- 
sible to quantities for serving four persons, using such surplusage as 
must necessarily occur in the proper cooking of joints, in the cold 
meat preparations. 

The etiquette of entries making one service to a person sufficient, 
the proportion of quantity has still been in a measure preserved, as 
these are generally served in odd numbers five, seven, nine, etc. 



VEGETABLES. 

Spinach with Eggs.— For this provide : four 
quarts of spinach, one tablespoonful of cream, one ounce 
of butter, four eggs, one teaspoonful of lemon- juice, one 
grain of cayenne, one dessert spoonful of salt, one salt 
spoonful of pepper. 

The spinach must be thoroughly washed through three 
or four waters and the stalks picked off. Put it when 
washed into a dry saucepan, sprinkle over it the salt, and 
covering the saucepan closely place it over the fire. The 
salt and heat together will draw from the spinach enough 
of its own green liquor in which to boil, and when it 
reaches the boUing point allow it to boil for ten minutes. 

At the end of this time remove the spinach to a cul- 
lender that it may drain entirely of its liquor and when 
drained it must either be very finely chopped or passed 
through a coarse wire sieve. 

Into a small saucepan put the butter and cream and 
place all over the fire until the cream boils, then stir in 
the spinach, and let the mixture get very 'hot but not 
boiling, as boiling will draw more liquor from the spinach 
and spoil the dish. 



gS VEGETABLMS. 

Season now with the cayenne and pepper and draw 
the saucepan aside from the fire to keep hot until the eggs 
are prepared. Fill a small saucepan with boiling water 
and into this put the lemon-juice. Break the egg into 
a cup and drop it into the saucepan, the water in 
which must continue to boil, and as soon as the form of 
the first egg sets, break and drop in the second in tjie 
same manner, which continue until the four eggs are 
in the saucepan, permitting each egg to remain about three 
minutes. 

When the eggs are done remove the spinach from its 
saucepan and pile it high in the centre of a vegetable 
dish, smoothing the edges around and the top with a 
knife blade, Take the eggs from the water with a skim- 
ming spoon, and arrange them upon the flat top of the 
spinach. 

This dish should be garnished for serving with cor- 
ners of fried bread or toast. 



NoTE.-^If lemon-juice is not convenient, a ft w drops 6f vinegar 
may be Used for poaching fhe eggs, but the flavor of it will always-be 
detected although it firms the egg quite as well as the lemon-juice 
which leaves no taste of itself with the egg. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. — Provide for this : one 
cauliflower, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one 
gill of cold water, two tablespoorjfuls of cream, three 
o'unces of grated Parmesan cheese, one grain of cayenne, 
one saltspoonful of white pepper, one tablespoonful of 
salt. 

A close firm head of cauliflower must be selected for 
this preparation and this must be first thrown into a basin 
of strongly salted water and left for twenty minutes in 



TOMA TO PAXCI. gj 

order that sand, grit or other foreign substances may be 
drawn out. Trim off the green leaves and cut the stalk 
squarely across about two inches below the flower, after 
which prepare a large saucepan by putting it over the 
fire, filling it two-thirds full of boiling water with a table- 
spoonful of salt. 

Into this saucepan put the cauliflower, the flower down- 
wards and covering it until the water boils up vigorously, 
when removing the saucepan cover, all should be allowed 
to boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. 

At the end of this time take the cauliflower from the 
water and placing it upon a gratin plate with the flower 
uppermost, wrap over it thickly but lightly a clean towel 
both to keep it hot and to absorb such moisture as may 
have remained in the top. 

Melt in a small saucepan the butter into which stir 
the flour, and add by degrees the cold water. When 
this boQs take it from the fire, add to it the cream and 
two ounces of the grated cheese. Season all with the 
cayenne and pepper, and removing the towel from the 
cauliflower pour this sauce over it. Sprinkle over the 
flower the remaining ounce of cheese and place all into 
a quick oven where the cheese upon the top must be 
allowed nicely to brown. .. ve immediately. 



Notes. — If Parmesan cheese cannot be obtained, any strong, old 
cheese that is dry enough to grate, may be used instead, 

In boiling all v^etables and cereals the more rapidly the water 
boils the more satisfactory will be the result. 

If a gratin-plate is not available, the cauliflower must be put upon 
<« plate that will stand the heat of the oven and in serving, a napkin 
may be laid under and prettily folded around to conceal the plate, if 
unsightly. 



08 VEGkTASLES. 

Tomato Parci.— Provide for this : one quart of 
fresh tomatoes, two Spanish onions, four tablespoonsfuls 
of bread crumbs, three ounces of butter, x)ne-half tea- 
Spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. 

The onions must have been put into boiling water and 
soaked over night, and when required for the preparation, 
they should be dried in a towel and then sliced, making 
the slices about a third of an inch thick. 

Melt in a frying-pan an ounce of the batter, and when 
hot, brown on both sides in it the onion slices. 

Slice the tomatoes and arrange a layer of them in 
the bottom of a vegetable dish, and over this put a 
layer of the browned onion. Sprinkle over this a little 
of the bread crumbs, season with the pepper and salt, and 
with these alternating layers proceed to fill the vegetable 
dish, leaving a top Covering of the bread crumbs. 

When the dish is filled, distribute the butter in small 
pieces over the top, and place all in a moderate oven to 
bake for three-quarters of an hour. 



Note — Canned tomatoes will answer for this faici, and when used, 
the half of a quart can will be sufficient, t 

Boiled Asparagus with White Sauce. — For 

this provide : one bunch of asparagus, two ounces of 
butter, one ounce of flour, oiie gill of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of creamj one saltspoonfiil of salt, one salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Trim the asparagiis and cut it into equal lengths, 
wash it in cold water and putting it into a saucepan, 
cover- with boiling water, arid shut the lid of the sauce- 
pan for the first moment ; when the water boils up vig- 



GREEN PEAS. gq 

orously, take off the cover and let the asparagus boil for 
twenty minutes. 

Five minutes before the asparagus is done, take a 
small saucepan, and mixing it in the butter and the floUr, 
add to this by degrees a gill and a half of the liquor in 
which the asparagus is boiling. Stir this with the butter 
and flour until the mixture boils, when the milk should 
be added, and two minutes additional boiling allowed. 
Season with the salt and pepper, and drawing the sauce- 
pan aside from the fire, stir into it the cream. 

Take the asparagus from the water at the expiration 
of the twenty minutes, and drain it upon a wire sieve, 
place it in a vegetable dish and pour the sauce ^carefully 
around and across the tips, exercising caution not to 
spatter the ends of the stalks that are to be taken in the 
fingers. 



Notes — ^Asparagus may be boiled in the above manner, and 
lerved upon toast instead of with the white sauce. 

A very simple manner of boiling this vegetable, is to stand the 
unbroken bundle of asparagus upon the stalk end upright in a sauce- 
pan containing boiling water enough tp reach nearly to the tender 
gieen tips. It must be boiled rapidly until tender, and then, prepar- 
ing a hot napkin upon a platter, take the asparagus from the water, 
and draining it for a moment, place it upon thp napkin, cut the bands 
and draw them away, and fold over all snugly the ends of the napkin. 
The white sauce which is used for this, must be served in a gravy 
boat. 

A favorite way of serving boiled asparagus, is to make it very cold 
by standing in the ice-box, aqd then serve with a sauce piquant, com- 
posed of vinegar, pepper, salt and salad oiL 

In this way, asparagus may be used as a salad. 

Green Peas. — One quart of shelled peas, one ounce 
of butter, one-half teaspoonful of powdered sugar, one 



100 VEGETABLES. , 

teaspoonful of "salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one 
sprig of mint. 

Place the peas in a large saucepan of boiling water, in 
which should be thrown the sprig of mint, and covering, 
let them boil rapidly from ten to twenty minutes, as the 
age of the peas may require. 

The moment the peas are done, they must be taken 
from, the water and drained, as over cooking spoils them. 
While the peas are draining, melt the butter, in the sauce- 
pan in which they have been cooked, and when this 
is melted, throw back into it the peas, sprinkle over them 
the pepper, salt and sugar, and, covering the saucepan, 
shake it over the fire until the peas are very hot, taking 
care that they neither brown nor break. 

Turnips. — For this take : six turnips, two table- 
spoonsfuls of beef dripping, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of cream. 

First pare the turnips, taking care to cut off the white 
lining of the skin which is bitter, and the thickness of 
which will be perceived by the clearly defined circle 
discovered in cutting off the top. Wash the turnips 
thoroughly in cold water to whiten them and remove the 
finger marks, and putting them into a saucepan, cover them 
with boiling water, and closing the lid of the saucepan 
boil them rapidly until a fork will easily penetrate to their 
centres. 

When dope, dr^in the water well off them» add the beef- 
dripping, pepper and salt, and with a potato-masher mash 
them finely, using a fork occasionally to break the lumps. 

When mashed stir in with them the cream, and pile 
them high in a vegetable dish, smoothing the edges 
around with a knife. 



BOILED SUMMER SQUASH. joi 

Boiled Cabbage. — For this provide : one head of 
cabbage, three tablespoonsful of beef-drippings, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one lump 
of saleratus the size of a pea. 

Select a large, firm head of cabbage, wash it well 
and cut away the coarse 'outer leaves. This done cut off 
the -stalk and make cuts in the base of the cabbage, cross- 
ing each other in the centre, so that the water may pene- 
trate to the heart and cook it equally. 

Prepare a large saucepan of boiling water, into which 
throw the saleratus, put into this the cabbage, covering 
the pan until the water boils up, when removing the 
cover, it must be allowed to boil rapidly, until a skewer or 
fork will pierce readily through it, 

Remove the cabbage now to a cullender and let the 
water drain from it, and chop it roughly with a knife 
when drained. 

When chopped put it into a vegetable dish, pour over 
it the beef-drippings, sprinkle over the pepper and salt, 
wher it must be tossed about with a fork very quickly in 
order that the cabbage may not cool. When the seasoning 
is thoroughly distributed send it at once to the table. 

Notes — This may be cooked exactly the same way and served 
whole if preferred, in which case the dripping must be heated and 
poured over and the pepper and salt sprinkled over afterwards. 

Cabbage may also be boiled very palatably in the liquoi' in which 
either salt beef or salt pork is boiled. 

Boiled Summer Squash. — Take for this purpose : 
two medium sized squashes, two ounces of butter, one- 
half teaspoonful of pepper, one dessert spoonful of salt. 

The squashes must first be pared, then cut into slices 
and put into cold water for ten minutes. 



I02 VEGETABLES. 

Put the slices into a saucepan together with sufficient 
water to cover them, into which must be thrown the salt, 
and boil for about twenty minutes. 

Remove the squash to a cullender, drain off as much 
of the water as possible and mash them up, using a fork 
to break up all the lumps. 

Place all in a vegetable dish, add the butter and 
pepper, and toss them a^out with a fork until the butter 
is melted, when it should be smoothed over the top with 
a knife-blade, and served immediately. 

Boiled Carrots with Brown Sauce. — For this 
prepare : one bunch of young carrots, One ounce of but- 
ter, one-half ounce of flour, one-half pint of brown stock, 
one dessert spoonful of catsup, one saltspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of pepper. 

Wash the carrots in cold water and cut them squarely 
across at the tops. , Throw them into boiling- water and 
boil them for twenty minutes, Ten minutes before this 
time expires, take the carrot tops that have been cut off, 
dry them thoroughly, and melting the butter in a frying 
pan, put these in tpp pieces and brown them upon both 
sides. 

When these are browned stir in with them the flour, 
add by degrees the stock and stir all together until the 
stock boils. Season with the pepper and salt, flavor 
with the catsup and again let the sauce boil for two min- 
utes. 1 

When the carrots are boiled take them from the water 
and rolling them one by one in a towel, wring lightly to 
rub off the thin outer skin, stand them in regular order 
upright in a vegetable ,dish, and strain the, sauce around 
them. 



BOILED POTATOES. 



103 



Note. — Old carrots may be used also in this way but they must 
Gist be scraped and pared down to uniform sizes, and also will re- 
quire a little longer boiling. 

Boiled Potatoes. — For this provide : ten potatoes, 
one-half tablespoonful of salt. 

Select the potatoes of nearly an equal size, and wash 
them well in cold water. Pare them very thinly, as the 
best part of the potato lies nearest the skin, and putting 
them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water and bring 
the water quickly to the boiling point. Throw in the 
salt and covering the saucepan, let the whole boil rapidly 
until the surfaces of the potatoes begin to crack; then 
the water must be drained entirely off, leaving the pota- 
toes dry in the saucepan, and re-covering them, put the 
saucepan at one fide of the fire, turn it occasionally that 
they may not catch on the bottom and let them cook 
in their own Steam until they can be easily pierced with 
a skewer. 

When done remove the cover and set the saucepan for 
a moment over the fire to aid the escape of the steam and 
dry off any moisture. They must be carefully trans- 
ferred to a vegetable dish in order to preserve them un- 
broken. 



Notes — Instead of serving these potatoes whole they may be passed 
through a coUender or coarse wire sieve directly into a vegetable dish, 
the vegetable dish should be put into a very quick oven and the pota- 
toes browned over the top. Served in this way the potatoes have a 
beautiful light appearance resembling well boiled rice, beside being 
most delicious to the taste. 

New potatoes should be boiled after the above method with this 
difference. They must be scraped instead of pared and thrown into 
boiling water to boil instead of into cold. 

If the potatoes are desired plainly mashed, a, little cream and b^t- 



I04 



VEGETABLES. 



ter should be added to them, and when mounded into the dish, a lump 
of butter may be let into the top, and some pepper dusted over all. 

Colcannou. — Provjde for this : One pound of cold 
boiled potatoes, one pound of cold boiled turnip, one 
ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of bread crumbs, one ' 
saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of p'epper. 

The bread crumbs must first be put upon a tin or 
plate, and into -the oven and browned to a light brown. 
Grease slightly a plain mould holding about' three pints, 
and sprinkle around the sides and over the bottom of this, 
the browned bread crumbs. Put into a bowl the potato 
and with it the turnip,- which must first be pressed down 
and drained of any water that it may have gathered in 
standing to cool. Mix these thoroughly together and sea- 
son them with the pepper and salt, adding also the butter, 
and when all is stirred together, pack the mixture into the 
mould, pressing it down with the blade of a knife, place 
the mould in a moderate oven where it must remain until 
its contents be thoroughly heated, then turn the form 
carefully out into a vegetable dish and serve steaming hot. 

Boiled Haxicot Beans. — Prepare: one pint of 
dried Haricot beans, four hard bojled eggs, yolk of one 
raw egg, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two ounces 
of floiur, two ounces of butter, one-half pint of milk, one 
heaped teaspoonful of salt. 

Soak the dried beans over night in an abundance of 
cold water. Two hours before they are required to serve, 
drain from them the water in which they have soaked, 
and putting them into a saucepan, cover them well with 
cold water and let them boil briskly for two hours. The 
salt must meantime have been put into the water, and from 
time to time sis the water in the saucepan reduces by 



GREEN CORN. IO5 

boiling, cold water must be poured in to keep the quan- 
tity the same, taking care to do this with sufficient fre- 
quency to prevent cooling the boiling liquor too much by 
the quantity of cold water added. 

Five minutes before the beans will be ready to dish 
up, melt in a small saucepan the butter, stir into it the 
flour, add by degrees the milk, and stir all until boiling. 
Let the mixture cook for two minutes, and season it with 
the salt. , 

When the beans are done, drain the water from them 
in th« quickest and most convenient way, so that they be 
rendered perfectly dry, place them in a deep vegetable 
dish, take the sauce from the iire, drop into it the yolk 
of egg, and pour all immediately over the beans. 

Take the shells from the hard-boiled eggs; cut them 
in two, and arrange them around the dish of beans 
with the rounded sides up. Sprinkle over each piece of 
egg a little of the chopped parsley, when the dish is ready 
for serving. 



Notes — ^It is contended that the dried Haricot beans cannot be 
properly cooked through, without breaking their skins, but if the above 
directions are strictly followed in the particularities of adding cold 
water, and boiling rapidly, the result will be that the beans are not 
only thoroughly cooked to their centres, but have preserved theii 
form unbroken. 

The dried white bean in ordinary use, may also be successfully 
boiled in this way. 

Green Gisoa.. — Prepare : ten ears of com, one table- 
spoonful of salt. 

Strip off the outer husks and turning the fine inner 
leaves carefully down, remove the silk from about the 
kernels, when the remaining husk must be again brought 



I06 VEGETABLES. 

to cover the ear in its natural fashion, and secured at the 
J:ip end with a piece of twine. 

Prepare a large saucepan of boiling water into which 
throw the salt and then the corn,Jaying the ears in the 
fashion of a cob-house, that the water may boil equally 
through and around all.. The corn must be left to boil 
twenty-five or thirty minutes, unless very young, when 
twenty minutes will do. > 

' Serve in the husk, having first removed the binding 
twines, and covered closely with a folded napkin. 

Notes — Corn may be overdone as well as other vegetables, but 
by watching when the kernels are swelled to their largest size and the 
prick of a fork will bring a little pufF of steam followed by the shriv- 
eling of the kernel, no mistake of this kind need be made. An in- 
stants longer boiling when this point is reached, will cause the small 
puiT of steam generated, to find its own outlet, and the corn will 
shrivel and become 'watery in consequence. 

Green corn may also be stewed very palatably by being cut from 
the cob, put into a saucepan with such equal parts of milk and water 
as will cover the corn nicely, and when stewed until the kernels lose 
their milky rawness, season with the pepper, salt, and a lump of 
butter. 

Oyster Plant. — For this take: one-half dozen 
oyster plants, one-half tablespoonful of salt, three ounces 
of flour, one dessert spoonful of salad oil, one gill of tepid 
water, white of one egg. 

The oyster plants must be scraped and thrown into 
cold water in order to keep their color. Cut them when 
scraped, into convenient pieces and preparing a saucepan 
of boiling water into which ^throw the salt, put in the 
plants to boil until tender, the time for which depends 
upon the age of the plants. 

While the plants are boiling, place in a bowl the flour, 



PRENCff ARTtCHA UTS. 107 

pour into the centre of it the salad oil and mixing this, 
add by degrees the tepid water. 

When this mixture is well beaten together, whip up 
the white of egg and add it, with a little salt. 

The plants being boiled, they must be taken from the 
water and dried thoroughly in a towel. The pieces must 
be thrown into the batter and each piece taken separately 
therefrom with a skewer or fork, dropped into hot clarified 
fat or lard and allowed to cook for three minutes. 

When done drain them for a moment upon a piece of 
kitchen paper and serve them piled high in a vegetable 
dish. 

French Artichauts. — Provide: six large artt- 
chauts, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one gill of 
cream, one and one-half gills of milk, one grain of cay- 
enne, one dessert spooonful of salt, one saltspoonful of 
pepper. 

The artichauts must first be scraped and thrown into 
vinegar and water, three parts water, and one part vine- 
gar, to preserve their color, 

When all are scraped transfer them from the vinegar- 
- water to a saucepan containing sufiicient boiling water, 
into which must be thrown the salt, to cover them nicely, 
and boil them until a skewer will pierce theip readily. 

Melt now in a small saucepan the butter, stir into it 
the flour, and, by degrees, the milk also, stirring all until 
boiling. Add to this the cream and letting the mixture 
cook for two minutes longer, season it with the salt and 
pepper, when thq sauce should be poured into a vegetable 
dish and the artichauts taken from the boiling water, and 
thoroughly drained, must be arranged to stand up in 
regular order in it. 



I<^ VEGETABLES. 

Note. — It is sometimes preferred to serve the artkhauts plainly 
boiled, as above, with a saoce piquant of vinegar, salad oil, pepper 
and salt. 

Brussels Sprouts. — Prepare : One quart of Brus- 
sels sprouts, one ounce of butter, one dessert spoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Throw the Brussels sprouts into a basin of cold water 
to draw out the grit or sand and wash them|well, then 
cut off with a knife the stalk end. 

Have in readiness a saucepan of boiling water into 
which has been placed half of the salt, drdn the sprouts 
from the cold water and throw them into the saucepan, 
put on the cover until the water boils up and uncover- 
ing them, let them boil rapidly for ten minutes. 

Pour them into a iCuUender to strain off the water, 
melt in the saucepan the butter, return the Brussels 
sprouts to it, and sprinkle over them the remainder of 
the pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan over the fire 
until the sprouts are thoroughly heated, taking care that 
they do not brown. 

When hot, transfer the sprouts to a vegetable dish, 
and serve at once. 

Boiled Onions. — Take : six Spanish onions, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, one ounce 
of flour, one-half pint of milk, one gill of cream, one 
saltspoonful of pepper, one lump of saleratus the siae of 
a pea. 

The onions must first be skinned and allowed to 
stand all night in water, which must have been poured 
over them boiling, and in which the saleratus has been 
dissolved. 

An hour before required for use, the onions should 



Baked onions. 



109 



be put into a saucepan covered with cold water, put over 
the fire and when boiling, boiled for fifteen minutes. At 
the end of this time, the first water should be drained off", 
nearly all of the salt sprinkled over them, and recovering 
them with boiling water, allow them to boil for half an 
hour longer. 
\ While the onions are boiling, melt in a small saucepan 
the butter, stir into it the flour, and by degrees the milk, 
and when this mixture boils, add to it the cream, and let 
aU cook together for two minutes, when it must be sea- 
soned with the pepper and remaining salt. 

Take the onions from the water, when boiled, one by 
one, with a draining spoon, pressing them against the side 
of the saucepan in lifting them, that the water may be 
entirely expressed. / 

Place them in a vegetable dish, pour over them the 
white sauce, and they are ready to serve. 

Baked Onions. — Take : six Spanish onions, three 
ounces of butter, one-half ounce of flour, one teacupful of 
brown stock, one-half tablespoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one lump of saleratus the size of a pea. 

Soak the onions over night in a preparation of boil- 
ing water in which the saleratus has been dissolved, and 
an hour before they are required to serve, place them 
into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, place the 
saucepan upon the fire, and when boiling, let them con- 
tinue to coqk briskly for fifteen minutes. 

Take them, when boiled from the water, and putting 
them into a vegetable dish, distribute over thfem two 
ounces of the butter, sprinkle over them the pepper and 
salt, and placing the vegetable dish into a moderate oven, 
let them bake for half an hour. 



no VEGETABLES. 

Ten minutes before the onions will be done, put into 
a bowl the flour, and make it smooth with the stock. 
Five minutes before taking the onions from the oven, pour 
the mixed flour and stock over them, distribute over all 
the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and when the 
remaining Ave minutes expire, take the onions from the 
oven and serve at once. 



' Notes — To fry onions they ^ould first be skinned, then boiling 
water poured over them. Dry them in a towel, cut them into thin 
slices, and fry in hot butter. 

Onions are exceedingly indigestible, unless soaked for twelve 
hours before cooking. Fried onions can not therefore ba recom- 
mended for dyspeptics. 

Iiima Beans. — Take : one pint of shelled lima 
beans, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of salt one 
teaspoonful of wMte pepper. 

Put the shelled beans into a bowl, and pour over 
them some boiling water. Leaving them in this water 
five minutes, take them out and drain theni, and placing 
them in a saucepan of boiling water in which the salt 
has been dissolved, and allow them to boil for twenty 
minutes. 

When done pour them into a cullender and when 
thoroughly drained, pour them into a vegetable dish, 
sprinkle over them the pepper, and melting the butter, 
pour it also over them and serve. 



Note — Succotash may be zhad^ from the boiled lima be'ans by 
adding to them an equal quantity of boiled green com cut from the 
cob, and an equal quantity of milk and water seasoned with pepper 
salt, and a Ump of butter being poured over the mixture while warm 
ing. 



BOILED PARsmPS. 1 1 1 

Cabbage S.-la-Mode.— Provide : one head of 
=abbage, one-quarter pound of cold chicken, two ounces 
of cold pork, one-quarter pound of rice, three ounces of 
butter, one-half ounce of flour, one pint of brown stock, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, one 
Bermuda onion. 

A close firm head of cabbage should be selected, and 
this well washed in cold water, after which it must be 
placed in a large saucepan of boiling water, and boiled 
over a brisk fire for fifteen minutes. 

At the end of this time take the cabbage from the 
water, place it upon a platter to cool a little, and while 
this is cooling, put into a chopping bowl and chop very 
finely the chicken and pork, chop the onion also and mix 
it with the meat, season all with the pepper and salt, 
wash well the rice and mix it with the pOrk, fowl and 
onion, open the leaves of the cabbage gently, and insert- 
ing this mixture between them, bind the cabbage arouiid 
with a piece of twine, and melting in a large saucepan 
the butter, fry the cabbage in it until thoroughly brown. 

Mix the flour with a little of the stock in a bowl, and 
when the lumps are all beaten out, add the remainder of 
the stock. Pour this over the browned cabbage, and let 
all stew very slowly for three hours thereafter. 

When done, serve in a vegetable dish with the sauce 
poured around. 

Note — Cold roast beef or lean roast mutton, may be substituted 
when chicken is not convenient. 

BoUed Parsnips. — Prepare : ten medium sized 
parsnips, three ounces of butter, three gills of milk, one 
tablespoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one 
saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. 



112 P'MGETABIMS. 

Wash the parsnips as cleanly as possible in cold 
water, when they must be put into a saucepan of boiling 
water in which the salt has been dissolved. Boil them 
from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour, as their 
age and size may demand, and when boiled until tender 
take them from the water, one by one, rubbing each in 
a clean towel to remove the skin, which will have become 
loosened by boiling. 

Place them in a heated vegetable dish, and when 
the butter has been melted, the milk added thereto, to- 
gether with the pepper and nutnjeg, and all boiled, this 
should be poured over the parsnips and all immediately 
served. 



Note — To fiy parsnips they must fiist be plainly boiled, then 
skinned, dried in a towel and split into halves and fried in^hot melted 
butter until browned. 

Leeks au Gratin. — Provide : Eight leeks, one- 
half tablespoonful of salt, one ounce of butter, one ounce 
of flour, one-half pint of second stock, one saltspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, three ounces of grated cheese. 

Remove first the fibrous roots from the leeks, cut off 
the green stalks, leaving about an inch length of them on 
for use. Put them into a bowl and covering them with 
boiling water let the leek soak for ten minutes. At the 
expiration of this time put them into a saucepan of boil- 
ing water into which throw the skit and let all boil for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

While the leeks are boiling, mix together in a saucepan 
placed over the fire, the butter and flour, to which kdd 
the stock by degrees, and let all cook for two minutes, after 
which season with the pepper, throw in the nutmeg and 
one ounce of the cheese. 



PRENCH OR STRING BMANS. 



"3 



When the leeks are done take them from the boiling 
water, drain them, and place them upon a gratin-dish. 
Pour over them half of the sauce from the saucepa:n, 
sprinkle over with the remainder of the cheese and plac- 
ing the dish in a quick oven let all become slightly 
browned. 

When browned remove the dish from the oven pour 
around the leeks the remaining sauce and serve. 



NoTK. — ^When a silver gratin-dish is not available, an ordinary 
flat dish may be used, with the consideration that it must be some- 
thing that will not be injured by the heat and also that the prepara- 
tion must be served in the same dish in which it is baked, 

French or String Beans. — Provide : One quart 
of beans, two ounces of butter, one saltspoonf ul of pepper, 
one dessert spoonful of salt, one grain of cayenne. 

First string the beans observing always to begin at the 
stem end of the pod when the strings will strip easily down- 
ward. Lay them flat upon a board and with a sharp knife 
cut them through the centres lengthwise, when they must 
be gathered into small bunches of equal size and secured 
with a piece of twine. 

Place the bunches now into a saucepan two-thirds full 
of boiling water in which the salt has been disolved and 
boil them for twenty minutes if the beans are very young, 
but if older they will require quite half an hour to become 
tender. 

When done drain off the water, and transferring each 
little bunch to a vegetable dish and cutting the strings 
arrange them neatly therein. 

Melt the butter, season it with the cayenne and pep 
per and pour it over all just before serving. 



114 



VMGETABLRS. 



Note, — String beans are sometimes served cut in small squares 
and with a sauce of melted butter and milk, seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Provide : two quarts of fresh 
tomatoes, two ounces of butter, two milk crackers, one- 
half teaspoonful of pepper, one half teaspoonf ul of salt. 

Put the tomatoes into a saucepan two-thirds filled with 
boiling water and let them boil until the skins begin to 
crack and curl. Take them from the water, drain them 
in a cullender, and when thoroughly drained, dry the 
bottom of the cullender and rub the tomatoes through it. 

Return them to the saucepan and let them stew 
slowly for one hour when the butter, pepper and salt 
must be added and just before serving stir in the crackers 
which must have been crushed fine with a rolling pin pre- 
paratory to using. 



Note — ^Canned tomatoes may be prepared also in this way except 
that having already been cooked in the process of canning they require 
only to be drained, made fine, and thoroughly heated. 

Stewed Celery. — Prepare : one head of celery, 
two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, three gills of 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of 
salt 

Wash the celery thoroughly, cut it into inch-lengths 
when it should be put into a saucepan, covered with boil- 
ing water and cooked until tender, the length of time for 
which depends entirely upon the age and quality of the 
celery. 

When tender the water must be poured off, the milk 
and flour mixed together in a bowl, which season with the 
pepper and salt and povirin^ it over the celery, return the 



BOILED BEETS. 



"5 



saucepan to the fire, stirring all until the milk boils, when 
the butter must be added and the stew served hot. 

Boiled Beets, — Provide : six medium sized beets, 
one-half pint of vinegar, one blade of mace, one-half tea- 
spoonful of white peppercorns, one-half teaspoonful of 
black peppercorns, one ounce of butter, one teaspoqnful 
of salt. . 

The beets must be carefully washed in cold water, 
taking care not to break off the fine fibrous roots in order 
that they may not bleed in boiling and so lose their color. 
Put them when washed into a large saucepan with plenty 
of boiling water and boil them until a skewer or fork will 
pierce easily to their centres. When tender drain off the 
boUing water, and taking each beet separately, rub off their 
skins in a clean dry towel. 

Take four of the beets and cut them into slices about 
a quarter of an inch in thickness. Place these slices 
into a vegetable dish, melt the butter and pour it over 
them, and sprinkling„over also the pepper and salt, they 
are ready to serve. 

Meantime while the beets have been boiling, thd vine- 
gar, mace and peppercorns must have been put together 
in a saucepan and boiled five minutes. When the re- 
maining two beets have been also sliced and arranged in 
a vegetable dish the prepared vinegar should be thrown 
over thenj and the whole put away to become cold before 
serving. 



Notes.— Beets prepared as above with the vinegar will keep for 
a week if desired. 

Beets, as well as potatoes may be baked in the oven and will be 
found very swoet ; but a long time is required to have them become 



Il6 VEGETABLES. 

thoroughly baked, the length of which must be detennined by testing 
with a skewer. 

Maccaroni and Cheese. — Three ounces of mac- 
coroni, 'three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one-half 
pint of milk, two ounces of butter, one gill of cream, one 
egg, one teaspoonful of dry mustard, one saltspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful 
of peppet. 

Wash the maccaroni in cold water, and removing it 
from the water, place it into a saucepan^ cover it with 
cold water, and let it boil in this for fifteen minutes. 

At the end of this time drain off the water, cover the 
maccaroni with the milk, and allow all to boil for three- 
quarters of an hour longer. 

When this is done put the cream into a bowl, beat 
it until very light, add the egg and beat both together 
until thoroughly blended. Season this mixture with the 
pepper, salt, cayenne and mustard, pour into it the boiled 
maccaroni, add to this two ounces of the cheese and one 
ounce of the butter, and wheii all has been well mixed; 
pour it out upon a platter, sprinkle over the remainder of 
the cheese, and distribute over also the remaining ounce 
of butter in small pieces. Place the plattet in a mod- 
erate oven and bake its contents for ten minutes, and 
serve at once upon the dish upon which it is prepared, 

Egg-Plant. — One small egg-plant, two eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one^half teaspoonful of pepper, three ounces of 
butter. 

Slice the egg-plant very thinly, and pour over the 
slices some boiling water, allowing them to soak in this 
for ten minute^. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 



"7 



At the end of this time drain the water from them, 
and dry them very thoroughly with a toWel. 

Beat the eggs until very light, dip the slices of egg- 
plant into this one by one, season the bread crumbs with 
the pepper and salt, and roll the egg-plant in turn in 
this; melting an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, put 
into this when hot, as many of the slices of the plant as 
will lay flatly in the pan, and fry them to a delicate 
brown on both sides. 

Add then a little more butter to that already in the 
pan, let it become hot and fry as many more as the pan 
will conveniently hold. Continue thus, adding butter and 
frying until all of the slices of egg-plant are done, when 
they should be served arranged upon a flat vegetable 
dish. 

SALADS. 

Chicken Salad. — One chicken, one teaspoonful 
of .salt, one teaspoonful of white pepper, one-half head of 
celery, one grain of cayenne, yolks of two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of capers, one head 
of lettuce, one gill of salad oil. 

The fowl must be first cleaned and then put into 
boiling water and boiled until tender. 

After which it should be set into the ice-box and 
allowed to remain until perfectly cool. 

When cool cut it into small square pieces and remove 
the skin. The celery should be well washed, and it also 
cut into pieces of a similar size. 

Put into a bowl the yolks of egg, drop into this, drop 
by drop the oil, and beat them together with the back 
of a wooden spoon. 



llg SALADS. 

When this is done the mixture should resemble a 
thick cream, to which the vinegar should be added ; and 
putting the chicken and celery together in a salad bowl, 
pour over them this compound, sprinkle on also the pep- 
per, salt and cayenne, aiid mix all thoroughly together 
with a fork. 

Take then the fresh green leaves of the lettuce, and, 
washing well first, arrange them around the edge of jthe 
salad bowl, sprinkle the, capers over the top, and garnish 
the centre with tips of celery to give the salad an attrac- 
tive appearance. 



Note — Cold turk«y may be substituted for chicken, in making a salad. 

Potato Salad. — Eight large potatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, one-half of a Bermuda' onion, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, yolks of two eggs, one 
gill of salad oil, one teaspoonful of white pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one head of l(Sttuce. 

, Wash and pare the potatoes, and put them to boil in 
a saucepan containing as much cold water as will nicely 
cover them. Boil them until tender but not broken on 
the surfaces, when the water must be drained off, and 
the potatoes allowed to get quite cold. Cut them first 
into quarters, and then these quarters into slices, place 
the slices into a salad bowl, sprinkle over them the 
.chopped parsley and also the onion which must have been 
chopped exceedingly fine, when the. vinegar, pepper and 
salt must be added and all tossed with a fork until thor- 
oughly mixed. Put! now into a, small bowl the yolks of 
egg, and drop in thereafter the salad oil, drop'by drop, 
stirring all until it comes to a creq.m, when the mixture 



SHRIMP SALAD. 



119 



must be poured over the salad in the salad bowl, and the 
dish garnished with the fresh green leaves of the lettuce. 

Shrimp Salad. — One can of shrimps, two heads of 
lettuce, one gill of salad oil, one tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
white pepper, yolks of two eggs. 

The heads of lettuce should be carefully trimmed, 
well washed and thoroughly dried in a towel, avoiding as 
much as possible the crushing of the leaves, which causes 
them to wilt. 

They should next be picked apart, and the outer 
leaves torn into medium sized pieces, reserving the tender 
inner leaves for garnishing. 

Place the torn lettuce in the bottom of a Salad bowl, 
and removing the shrimps carefully from the bag in 
which they are put into the can, take from them any 
bits of shell or specks of black that may mar them, taking 
care not to break their form, and pile these high upon 
the lettuce in the centre of the bowl. 

Put the yolks of eggs into a small bowl, drop in 
upon them, drop by drop, the salad oil, and beat these 
to a thick cream when the vinegar must be added, also 
the pepper and salt, and all stirred together until thor- 
oughly blended. 

Pour this dressing over the shrimps, garnish around 
the sides and in the centre of the top, with the pale deli- 
cate inner leaves of lettuce and serve. 

This salad must not be mixed at all until it is served 
at table, as to stir it destroys the fine appearance of the 
shrimp, which are so delicate as to be easily broken. 



Notes — Mayonnaise dressing should invariably be stirred ore 



I20 SALADS. 

way, as to reverse the current of the liquid causes it to Curdle. If by 
• accident curdling occurs, its smoothness may be recovered by drop- 
ping in the yolk of another egg, and paying strict attention to the 
rule of stirring. 

When fresh shrimps instead of the canned ones are used, a large 
saucepan of boiling water, in which has been placed salt, a little , 
lemon-thyme, mint and bay-leaf should be prepared and the shrimps 
plunged into this, confined in a wire basket, and boiled until they 
change their color, the length of time for which depends upon the 
size of the shrimps. 

Iiobster Salad. — One quart of brown stock, one 
half ounce of gelatine, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
one sprig of parsley, -one teaspoonfiil of pepper, two gills 
of cold water, whites of two eggs, one bay leaf, one lob- 
, ster, one ounce ' of butter, one tablespoonful of cream, 
one-half teaspoonf ul. of lemon-juice, two teaspoonsfuls of 
salt, one grain of cayenne, one head of lettuce, two table- 
spoonsfuls of salad oil, yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful 
of Tarragon vinegar. 

The Aspic jelly required for the preparation of this 
salad, must be made the daylaefore it is' designed for 
use, in order that it may have time to become quite firm. 
It is to be. prepared as follows : 

Put the stock into a copper or porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan, and make it hot over a quick fire. While this is 
heating, soak the gelatine in* half a gill of cold water. 
When the stock has come to a tepid degree of heat, put 
into it the tablespoonful of vinegar, parsley, bay-lea.f and 
soaked gelatine. Whip up the whites of egg in a bo^l, 
and mix with it half a gill of cold water and a little pep- 
per and salt. ' 

Pour this egg mixture into the stock and stir all to- 
gether rapidly with an egg-whisk or two forks until the 



LOBSTER SALAD. \2\ 

Stock boils. Cover the saucepan closely and draw it 
aside from the fire, allowing its contents to simmer for 
ten minutes. Strain all through a clean towel into a bowl, 
and stand the jelly in a cool' dry place to become firm. 

When the lobster has been boiled and becomes cold, 
twist off the head, which will be used in garnishing, and 
remove the coral, if possible, without breaking it. Place 
the coral upon a plate and stand it where it may be, ex- 
posed to heat sufficient to dry it rapidly, but neither bake 
nor brown it. Remove also the meat from the tail and 
claws of the lobster, and cut it into convenient pieces. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir into it the flour. 
and add to it by degrees a gill of cold water. When 
this is boiling let it cook for two minutes thereafter rap- 
idly, and take it from the fire, add to it the cream, 
the lemon-juice, cayenne and a little pepper and salt ; 
also the pieces of meat from the lobster. 

When this is well mixed together it must be turned 
out upon a plate and put in a cool place, allowed to be- 
come quite cold. 

When cold, divide it into five portions and form 
each one into a cutlet about three inches long. 

Wash the lettuce, dry the leaves carefully with a 
towel, and tearing it into irregular pieces, arrange them in 
the bottom of a salad bowl. 

Mix in a separate bowl the yolks of egg and salad oil 
which must be dropped upon the egg drop by drop, and 
when these are beaten to a cream, add thereto the Tarra- 
gon vinegar. Pour this over the lettuce in the salad bo;wrl, 
sprinkle over all the remainder of the pepper and salt, 
and toss all lightly with a fork to distribute the dressing 
through the lettuce. 



122 SALADS. 

Chop the Aspic jelly now coarsely, and arrange a wall 
of it around the sides of the salad bowl, taking care to 
keep the centre clear, and within this wall place the 
lobster cutlets in a circle. 

Into each of the cutlets stick one of the feelers from 
the lobster, rub the head with a little oil to brighten and 
bring out the color, and place it in the centre of the dish. 

Take the dried cora,l, and either pound it lightly 
in a mortar, or roll it fine upon a board with a rolling 
pin, and sprinkle a little of thjs ovet each cutlet, and the 
remainder over the wall of jelly. 



Notes — ^Tb boillobsters, plunge them into boiling water in which 
a little salt has been dissolved, and boil them for twenty minutes 
rapidly. 

A plain lobster salad may be made by following the directions 
for shrimp salad, by substituting the meat of the lobster cut in coarse 
pieces for the shrimps. 

Cucumber Salad. — Three medium sized green 
cucumbers, two tabfespoonfuls of salad oil, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of black pepper. 

The cucumbers should be kept upon the ice until 
thoroughly chilled which renders them pleasantly brittle, 
after which they should be pared lengthwise, taking care 
to cut deep enough to remove all of the green inner skin 
which is exceedingly bitter, and when pared slice them 
into round thin slices, Arrange these slices in a mound 
in a shallow salad, bowl and mixing together the pepper, 
salt, oil and vinegar, pour this dressing over the cucumbers 
and stir all together until the dressing is well distributed 
when serving. 



LETTUCE SALAD. Hi^ 

Note, — A tomato salad may be prepared in this same manner with 
this difference, a little sugar must be added to the ingredients for the 
dressing. 

Beef Salad. — One pound of rare roast beef, one- 
quarter of a boiled beet, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of black pepper, one head of lettuce. 

Wash the lettuce, each leaf separately, dry it thor- 
oughly with a towel, taking care not to crush or wilt it, 
and reserving the few delicate inner leaves for garnishing, 
tear the rest into irregular pieces arid arrange theip in the 
bottom of a salad bowl. 

Cut the beef into small square pieces, slice the beet 
and cut it also into pieces ; mixing both lightly together, 
put them in pyramidal shape upon the lettuce in the 
bqwl and sprinkle over all the pepper and salt. Mix to- 
gether in a separate bowl the vinegar and oil, and when 
thoroughly blended, pour this dressing oyer the salad, and 
garnish at the top with the small lettuce leaves. 



Note. — A salad may be made of sliced cold tongue by following 
the above directions and substituting the tongue for the cold roast 
beef. 

Xiettuce Salad.— Two heads of lettuce, one dessert 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one table- 
spoonful of salad oil, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two 
hard boiled eggs. 

Separate the leaves of the heads of lettuce, wash them 
carefully, and dry each leaf thoroughly with a towel, 
handling them gently that they may be neither crughed 
nor wilted. Tear the leaves into pieces and arrange 
them lightly in a salad bowl. Sprinkle over them the 



124 



SALADS. 



pepper and salt, and mixing the vinegar and oil together 
in a separate bowl pour it, when well blended, over the 
salad and stir all together at table when serving. Cut the 
h^rd boiled eggs jnto quarters and garnish the dish with 
them. 



NotKs — Endive, eschalot, chickoiy, watercresseS, celery and all 
green salads may be prepared as the lettuce and salad is prepared. 
All green salads should have the material of which they are composed 
made very cold and crisp before dressing. 

If French dres.sing is preferred to the vinegar dressing, the propor- 
tions of vinegar and oil may be simply changed from the above given 
quantities to three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar. 

Green salads should be stirred as little as possible before being 
sent to the table in order that their freshness may be preserved until 
the moment of serving. 

Salad iL-la-Russe. — One boiled carrot, one boiled 
turnip, two boiled potatoes, one-third of a head of fresh 
celery, one boiled beet, four olives, four anchovies, yolks 
of two eggs, one tablespoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful 
of Tarragon vinegar, one teaspoonful of sa,lt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 

First put iiito a small bowl the yolks of eggs and drop 
upon them the salad oil, drop by drop, beating this to a 
cream as the oil is dropped in. Stir in both the vinegar 
and Tarragon vinegar and season with a little of the pep- 
per and salt. Cut the carrot, turnip, potato and ^elery 
into small dice, arrange these dice in pyramidal form 
upon a flat platter and pour over this the mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Cut the boiled beet into regular round slices and place 
them around the dish lapping one upon the other. At 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 125 

each comer place one of the four olives, around each of 
which must be twisted one of the anchovies ; sprinkle 
over all the remainder of the pepper and salt and Serve. 



Notes. — Hard boiled eggs may be used for garnishing salads as 
the fancy or taste may dictate. 

Olives are frequently used in chicken, turkey and lobster salad and 
for those who have a fondness for this relish they may be used at dis- 
cretion. 

Potato salad may be made if desired with a simple vinegar dress- 
ing instead of the mayonnaise. 

CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

CROQUETTES. 

Potato Croquettes. — One pound of mashed pota- 
toes, one ounce of butter, two tablespoonsfuls of milk, 
one-half teaspoonful of pepper, two eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one grain of cayenne, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt. 

First melt the butter in a saucepan, add to it the 
milk, and bring them together to the boiling point. Pass 
the mashed potatoes through a sieve, and add them to 
the boiling milk and butter. Beat all well together until 
the potatoes are very hot, when the saucepan must be 
taken from the fire, the pepper, salt and cayenne thrown 
in ; then drop in the yolks of eggs, and stir until the heat 
of the potato dries the egg. 

Roll this mixture into small balls, using a little flour 
to prevent its sticking to the hands, beat up the whites 
of the eggs and roll each ball therein. 

Place the bread crumbs upon a sheet of kitchen paper, 
and putting the balls one by one into this, roll them from 



126 CROQUETTES AND PRITTERS. 

side to side until covered with the crumbs, when they 
must be put into hot clarified fat or lard, and fryed for 
two minutes. 



Note — The yolks of egg are mixed with the potato in order to 
bind it together, and to gire the croquette a rich yellow color. If 
the whites were put in also, difficulty would be experienced in form- 
ing the croquettes and the color Would not be so fine. 

Chicken Croquettes.^One-half of a chicken, 
three ounces of butter, two ounces of cold tongue, seven 
ounces of flour, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper, the 
rind of one lemon, one-half teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
one egg, six tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one-half gill 
of cold water. 

First bone the chicken, remove the skin and chop the 

meat very finely. , Chop the tongue finely also, and mix 

' it with the chicken. Flavor this with the rind of lemon 

grated and the nutmeg; season with the pepper and 

nearly all of the salt. 

Place the flour into a bowl and rub into it the butter. 
When mixed make a well in the centre of it, put into it 
the water, lemon juice, and the remainder of the salt, 
kneading all firmly together. Roll this paste out as 
firmly as possible,' and cut it into rounds with a biscuit 
cutter." 

Beat the egg until very light and brush the edges of 
the ipunds with it. Put into the centre of each round of 
paste as much of the mixed chicken and tongue as they 
will hold, when the edges must be gathered up and 
pinched firmly together. When filled, roll each of the 
croquettes first into the egg and then intOj the bread 



klCE CROQUETTkS. 137 

crumbs, and throwing them into hot clarified fat or lard, 
let them cook for five minutes. 

When done take them from the fat, place them for a 
moment upon a piece of kitchen paper to drain, arrange 
them neatly in a napkin folded in cup shape, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Rice Croquettes.— One quart of milk, three-quar- 
ters pounds of rice, three ounces of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice, two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one-half saltspoonful of salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, put it into a saucepan and 
pour over it the milk. Cover the saucepan closely, and 
putting it over the fire without having stirred the contents 
let aU simmer slowly for twenty minutes. At the end of 
this time remove the saucepan from the fire, Stir in the 
yolks of eggs, lemon juice, salt, and ^half of the sugar, beat 
all thoroughly together and turn out, when mixed, the 
compound into a bowl and let it stand until it becomes 
thoroughly cool. When this mixture is quite cold, mould 
it into small equal-sized balls, beat the whites of egg until 
quite light, and dip the balls therein. 

Roll them in the bread crumbs which must have 
been placed upon a sheet of kitchen paper for this pur- 
pose, and throwing the croquettes from this into hot clari- 
i'led fat or lard, let them fry for two minutes. 

When done take them from the fat, place them upon a 
sheet of kitchen paper to drain for a moment, and serve 
them in a folded napkin with the remainder of the sugar 
sprinkled over them. 

NOTKS — If it is preferred, these croquettes can be made without 
the sugar, and if so done a little more salt may be used. 

It must be observed that the rice is not to be stirred when boiled 



I2S CHOQUMTTES AND PRITTSRS. 

for this preparation, otherwise the grains will be broken and the dan- 
ger be incurred of its sticking fast to the bottom of the saucepan, and 
so scorching. 

Crab Croquettes. — Two crabs, three ounces of 
butter, three ounces of flour, one-half pint of milk, one 
teaspoonful of Anchovy sauce, four tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, one egg, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one grain of cayenne. 

Throw the crabs into boiling water and let them boil 
for fifteen minutes. Remove the meat from the shells- 
and chop it coarsely. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir into it the flour and 
add to this by degrees the milk. When this is brought to 
the boilirig point let it boil for two minutes thereafter, and 
take it from the fire. 

Throw into the saucepan the meat from the crabs, 
add to the mixture thus formed, the cayenne, salt, pepper 
and Anchovy sauce, and when thoroughly mixed turn it 
out upon a plate and allow it to cool. 

When quite cold form the compound into small equal 
rolls three inches in length, beat the egg and dip each 
roll therein, after which they must be placed upon the 
bread crumbs which must be prepared upon a sheet of 
kitchen paper for the purpose, and rolled therein from 
side to side until each croquette is blanketed with the 
crumbs. 

Drop them into hot clarified fat or lard and fry them 
for two minutes ; taking them from the fat drain them for a 
moment upon a sheet of kitchen paper, serve them in a 
folded napkin garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

Croquettes of Shad-Roe. — Four medium sized 
shad-roe, two boiled potatoes, one ounce of butter, one 



CROQ, UE TTES OF SALMON. \ ig 

ounce of flour, one gill of cold water, one tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, two 
hard boiled eggs, one raw egg, four tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs. 

Throw the roes into boiling water and boil them for 
twenty minutes. Take them from the water, drain them, 
placing them in a bowl, separate them with a wooden 
spoon. Add to the roes the pepper, salt and chopped 
parsley. Place a sieve over the bowl and rub through it 
the yolks of the hard boiled eggs. Rub through upon this 
the potatoes ; remove the sieve, add the whites of the 
hard boiled eggs, finely chopped, and the lemon-juice. 

Melt in a saucepan the butter, stir into it the flour, 
and the gill of water by degrees and when this boils, pour 
it over the materials in the bowl, and stir all thoroughly 
together. 

Fashion this mixture into small equal shapes resem- 
bling the shad-roes in miniature, beat the raw egg and dip 
the croquettes into it, place the bread crumbs upon a 
sheet of kitchen paper and roll them in turn in it, and 
putting them into hot clarified fat or lard, fry them for 
two minutes after which they must be drained of any 
superfluous grease upon a sheet of kitchen paper, and 
served in a folded napkin. 

Croquettes of Salmon, — Three-quarters of a 
pound of cold boiled salmon, five tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one and one-half ounces of butter, two eggs, one- 
half of a lemon, one teaspoonful of Anchovy sauce, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, 
one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, one saltspoonful of 
powdered mace. 



I JO CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

Shred the salmon with two forks and remove from it 
the bones and skin. Place it when prepared into a bowl 
and mix with it the bread crumbs. Melt the butter and 
pour it over this mixture, add thereto the pepper, salt, 
mace and nutmeg, and beating all thoroughly together^ 
squeeze over it the lemon-juice. ' 

Add to the compound the Anichovy sauce and 
the two eggs, stir all again together and form this into 
croquettes of equal size about three inches in length, using 
a little flour upon the hands to prevent the mixture from 
sticking. 

Drop the croquettes one by one into hot clarified fat 
or lard, fry them for two minutes then removing ^hem 
from the frying pan drain them a moment upon a piece 
of kitchen paper. Serve in a napkin folded in the form 
of a basket. 

CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

FRITTERS. 

Fotato Fritters.— Six boiled potatoes, three 
ounces of flour, one tablespoonful of salad oil, one gill of 
tepid water, one-half teaspoonful of white pepper, one 
teaspoonful of salt, white of one egg. 

Put the flour into a bowl, mix with it the salt and 
pepper, pour into the centre the salad oil, and over this 
the tepid, water, beating all well together. 

Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and add this to 
ihe mixture in the bowl, stirring very carefully in order 
not to break the froth. 

Quarter the potatoes, and dip each piece separately 



OYSTER FRITTERS. 131 

into the batter. Throw them into hot clarified fat, and 
let them fry three minutes. 

Remove them from the frying pan, drain them 
of grease upon a sheet of kitchen pan, and serve piled 
high in a vegetable dish. 

Notes — All batters should be made an hour or two before using, 
adding the white of egg just at the moment of use, as the grains of 
flour soak and swell out by standing after being moistened, and so 
the batter becomes lighter. 

Parsnip fritters may be prepared with the same kind of batter 
nsed for the potato, but when parsnips are used they must be thor- 
oughly dried before being dipped into the batter. 

Oyster Fritters. — One dozen large oysters, four 
ounces of flour, one gill of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, two eggs, one dessert spoonful of salad pil, 
one-half teaspooiiful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters, and dry them each 
thoroughly in a towel. Spread them out upon a plate, 
keeping them as separate as possible that they may de- 
velope no moisture from contact, while the batter is being 
prepared. 

Put the flour into a bowl, mix with it the pepper and 
salt, and making a little hole in the centre of this, drop 
into it the yolks of the eggs and the salad oil. Pour over 
the yolks of the eggs and the salad oil the milk by de- 
grees, and mix the flour into it from the sides, taking care 
that it does not lump, then beat all smoothly together, 
and whipping the whites of the eggs to a stiflf froth, mix 
this lightly into the batter. 

Pierce the oysters through the ear with a skewer, and 
lifting them in this way, dip them one by one into the 



132 CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

batter, and throwing them into hot clarified fat or lard 
fry them, allowing each oyster to remain in, four minutes 

Drain off such superfluous grease as may cling to 
them upon a sheet of kitchen paper, and arranging the 
'ritters in a hot napkin, spi-ay over them the lemon juice. 
' Cheese Fritters. — Three ounces of flour, one egg, 
one gill of tepid water, one saltspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of pepper, three ounces of Parmesan cheese, 
one-half teaspoonful of dry mustard, one-half ounce of 
butter. 

Put the floiir into a bowl and melting the butter pour 
this into the centre of it. Add to this by degrees the 
water, beating all together meantime. Drop in the 
yolk of the egg, season with the pepper, salt and mustard. 
Stir in also the grated cheese, and last of all the white of 
the egg which must first be whipped to a froth. Dip 
from this mixture tablespoonfuls and drop them one by 
one into hot clarified fat or lard. As the fritters become 
firm and arise to the top, turn them over with a skewer 
that they may brown evenly all around. 

As soon as they become brown, remove them from the 
fat and place them upon a sheet of kitchen paper to drain 
for a moment, when they must be piled tastefully upon a 
hot napkin, and served garnished with sprigs of parsley. 



Note — Any strong old cheese that is dry enough to grate^ may 
bf used instead of the Parmesan cheese for/these fritters. 

Apple Fritters.^Three large apples, three ounces 
of flour, one dessert spoonful of salad oil, one ounce of 
sugar, one gill of tepid water, white of one egg. 

The apples must be very "thinly pared and cored. 



CORN FRITTERS. 133 

leaving them whole. They must be cut around into 
slices about a third of an inch in thickness,- 

Put the flour into a bowl and pour into the cen- 
tre thereof the salad oil. Over this pour the tepid water 
and beat all well together. Beat the white of egg to a 
stiff froth and stir this into the batter very lightly, and 
when all is smoothly mixed, lift the slices of apple with a 
skewer, and dipping them into the batter, throw them one 
by one into hot clarified fat or lard, and fry them therein 
until the skewer will easily pierce them through, the time 
required for which depends upon the quality and kind of 
apple used. 

When done drain them for a moment upon a sheet of 
kitchen paper, and arranging them in a circle upon 
a flat dish, sprinkle the sugar thickly over them and 
serve. 



Note — Sugar should never be put into any kind of batter as it 
tends to render it heavy. It is better to use it as with these fritters, 
by sprinkling over when the dish is ready for serving. 

Com Fritters. — Four ears of boiled com, four 
ounces of flour, one gill of milk, two eggs, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt. 

First put the flour into a bowl, and dropping in the 
yolks of eggs, pour over them the milk, and mix in the 
flour from the sides while pouring on the milk. 

When all is smooth, season with the pepper and salt, 
whip the whites of egg to a stiff froth and mix this with the 
batter very lightly. 

Cut the corn from the cob and stir it into the batter, 
dipping the mixture from the bowl in large spoonfuls 
drop them into hot clarified fat or lard and fry until 



134 



SOUFFI.es. 



thoroughly brown, turning them constantly meantime that 
they may brown evenly. Serve in" a flat vegetable dish 
upon a hot napkin, having drained them for a moment 
upon a sheet of kitchen paper after removing them from 
the frying pan. / . 

Banana Fritters, — Four bananas, three ounces of 
flour, one dessert spoonful of salad oil, one gill of tepid 
water, white of one egg. ^ 

Put the flour into a bowl, pour into the certtre of it 
the salad oil and add by degrees the water, mixing the 
flour in from the sides as the water is poured over. 

Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth and stir it to- 
gether with the mixture in the bowl very lightly. Take 
the skin from the bananas and split them into halves. 

Melt in a frying pan three ounces of butter and when 
the blue smoke arises therefroni dip the slices of banana 
into the batter and placing them with the flat side down- 
ward into the frying pan baste them with the hot butter 
over the rounded sides until done to a nice light brown. 

When done they must be removed from the frying 
pan with a cooking shovel in order that they may not be 
broken in lifting, as tfeey become deliciously tender in pro- 
cess of frying. 

Serve upon a flat china fruit plate and with fine sugar 
if desired. 

SOUFFLES. 

Potato Souffl€. — Four large potatoes, one ounce of 
butter, one-half gill of milk, one-half teaspoonful of white 
pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt, yolks of three eggs, 
whites of four eggs. 

First scrub the potatoes well in cold water and then 



POTATO SOVFFLJE. 135 

put them to bake in a moderate oven for half or three- 
quarters of an hour which may be determined by testing 
the potatoes with a skewer, removing them from the oven 
when it will readily pierce through them. 

Cut off the tops of the potato when baked and scoop 
the flour from them, taking care not to break the skins. 
Rub the potato-flour through a sieve to make it perfectly 
smooth, and putting the butter into a saucepan, add to it 
the milk, pepper and 'salt and placing the saucepan over 
the fire, allow the milk to boil. ' 

When this boils throw into it the potato flour and stir 
all well together until the potato becomes hot. 

Take the saucepan from the fire and drop in the yolks 
of the eggs, stirring each one thoroughly together with 
the potato mixture before putting in the next, to prevent 
curdling. 

Put the whites of the eggs upon a plate and whip them 
with a knife to a very stiff froth. Mix this into the com- 
pound in the saucepan, being careful not to break the froth, 
and when this is done fill each of the potato skins two- 
thirds full of this mixture, place them upright in a baking- 
tin and bake them in a quick oven from seven to ten 
minutes. 

The length of time required for the baking is deter- 
mined by the heat of the oven which should be quick, 
and the soufH6 may be pronounced done when the finger 
may be pressed upon the top of the stuffing of the potato 
skins, and removed again without any of the mixture 
adhering. 

Serve on a small platter. 



^OTi— Sometimes in preparing these souffles, then will bt a lit- 



136 SOUFFLgS. 

tie of the potato flour mixture left after the skins are sufficiently filled, 
and when this occurs, the remnant may be utilized by baking it in a 
greased cup. 

Lexaon Souffl€. — Two lemons, one pint of milk, 
two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, one ounce of 
arrow root, two ounces of sugar, yolks of four eggs, whites 
of five eggs. 

Grease a broad band of paper and secure it with a 
piece of twine around the top of a quart souffl6 tin, in 
order that it may project and deepen the tin, and so pre- 
vent the souffle running over the sides as it rises. 
Grease the sides and bottom of the souffl6 tin. 

Cut from the lemon its thin yellow rind, and put it 
into a saucepan ^with a gill of the milk. Allow this to 
come to the boiling point, and drawing the saucepan 
aside from the fire, let its contents simmer slowly for five 
minutes. 

Put into a copper or porcelain-lined saucepan the 
butter, and stir into it as it melts, the flour. Add the 
arrow root and sugar, and by degrees the remainder of 
the milk. 

Stir this until it boils, and when boiling strain the 
lemon rinds from the milk, and add the flavoring liquid 
to the mixture in the saucepan. 

Draw the saucepan aside from the fire, let it cool 
slightly, and drop into it, one by one, the yolks of eggs. 
Stir this well together, when the whites of the eggs must 
be put upon a plate and whipped to a stifi" froth, and this 
also added to the contents of the saucepan, stirring lightly 
in order not to beat down the froth. 

Put this mixture quickly into the souflle tin, that 
the froth of egg may not fall; place the tin into a deep 



VANNILLA SOUFFLE. 137 

saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to reach half 
way up the sides of the tin, cover the saucepan closely, 
draw it to one side of the fire, and let the water simmer 
for three-quarters of an hour, taking care to keep the 
sauctepan closely covered all the time, and so keep con- 
fined all the steam generated in which the soufH^ is 
being cooked. 

At the end of this time remove the soufH6 from the 
saucepan, cut from it the band of paper, transfer it to a 
silver souffle dish or fold a napkin around the tin in 
which it is prepared and serve immediately. 

If the dining-room be distant from the kitchen, the 
soufSd should be carried in upon a hot shovel, otherwise , 
it may be chilled and so fall from its perfect state. 



Note — Should it be desired, the souffle prepared as above may 
be divided and put into pint sou£3e tins, baking one and steaming 
the other. 

Vanilla Sou£i6. — One ounce of flour, one and 
one-quarter ounces of butter, one dessert spoonful of 
sugar, one gill of milk, one-half teaspoonf ul of the essence 
of vanilla, yolks of three eggs, whites of four eggs, one 
tablespoonful of raspberry jam, one-half teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, one glass of sherry, six drops of cochineal. 

Grease a band of paper and secure it around the top 
of a pint and a half souifl6 tin, in order to deepen the 
tin and keep the souffld in form as it rises. Grease the 
sides and bottom of the tin inside. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir into it the 
flour, add to this the gill of milk and stir all together 
until boiling. Draw the saucepan aside from the 
fire, throw into it the sugar and essence of vanilla, and 



138 SOUFFLES. 

drop in also one by one the yolks of eggs, stirring all 
thoroughly together. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
this in also, taking care not to break the froth. 

Pour the mixture now into the souffle tin, which it 
should about two-thirds fill, place the tin into a deep 
saucepan containing sufficient water to reach.half way 
up the sides of the, mould, and covering the sa.ucepan 
closely, draw it aside from tlie fire and let the water there- 
in simmer slowly for thirty minutes, keeping it always 
covered. \ 

Five minutes before this time expires, rub through a 
horsehair sieve the jam, add to it the sherry and lemon 
juice, also the cochineal, put all into a small saucepan ; 
place over the fire, and stir until the mixture boils. 

Draw it then from the fire. Remove also the souffle 
from the saucepan, cut the paper from it and turn the 
sduffld out upon a hot, flat dish. Pour the sauce around 
it, and serve immediately. 



Note. — The lemon souffle may al$o if desired be served upon a 
hot platter, with the above sauce poured around it. 

Chocolate Souffles. — Three ' ounces of grated 
chocolate, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of butter, one 
ounce of flour, one gill of milk, yolks of three eggs, whites 
of four eggs. 

Grease and bind around a pint and a half soufll^ tin, 
a band of papeir to form a wall above the tin, and confine 
the soufll^ as it rises. Grease also the interior of the 
tin. 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir into it 
the flour, and adding the milk stir all until boiling. 



OAfSLETTE SOUFFLi.. 139 

When boiling take the saucepan from the fire, throw into 
it the chocolate and the sugar, and drop in the yolks of 
the eggs one by one, stirring all meantime. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir 
this in also, very lightly. 

Pour the mixture into the soufflfe tin, which should 
make it about two-thirds full, and place the tin into a 
deep saucepan containing sufficient water to reach half 
way up the sides of the form. Cover the saucepan and 
drawing it aside from th? fire allow the water to simmer 
therein for thirty minutes, keeping it all the time covered. 

When steamed take the soufH6, from the saucepan, 
transfer it quickly to a silver soufil6 dish or fold around 
the tin in which it is prepared a napkin and serve at once, 
carrying the dish upon a hot Shovel if the dining-room be 
distant frohn the kitchen. 

Omelette Sou£El€. — ^Yolks of two eggs, whites of 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of essence of vanilla, one-half ounce of butte,r, 
one grain of salt. 

First put into a small bowl the yolks of the eggs, to- 
gether with the sugar and vanilla and with a wooden spoon, 
stir theSe until they come to a thick cream, which will take 
three or four minutes. 

Put the whites of the eggs upon a perfectly dry plate, 
sprinkle over them the grain of salt and with a dry knife 
whip them to a very stiff' froth. 

Melt the butter in an omelette pan taking care that it 
does not get hot. 

Mix together the whites and the yolks of the eggs, 
pour this into the omelette pan, and put the pan over the 
fire for one minute. 



140 SOUFFLSS. 

Transfer the pan to^a iquick oven and allaw it to re- 
main there for five minutes. 

Turn the souffle out quickly upon a hot platter, fold 
it evenly together and serve at once. 

A tablespoonful of jelly or jam may be placed in the 
centre of the souffle when served, if desired. 



Notes. — Salt is 'added to the whites of eggs for the purpose of. 
' cooling them, and, if in the slightest degree stale, to aid in bringing 
them more quickly and lightly to a froth, 

' The whites of eggs must be whipped upon a dry plate and with a 
dry knife as the slight^t moisture will prevent their coming to a froth, 
and unless the froth of egg Tje very stiff the omelette souffle will be 
made heavy by it and so spoiled. 

Cheese Souffle. — One ounce of butter, one ounce 
of flour, one gill of milk, one-half teaspoonful of white 
pepper, ope-half teaspoooful of salt, one grain of cayenne, 
three ounces of grated cheese, yolks of three eggs, whites 
of four eggs. 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan and stir into it 
the flour, adding also the milk and stirring all until boil- 
ing. Throw into the boiling mixture the pepper, salt 
and cayenne, when removing the saucepan from the 
fire, the yolks of egg must be added together with the 
grated cheese and the whole very thoroughly beaten to- 
gether. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiflt froth and stir 
this in also, using care not to beat down' the froth. 

Fill this mixture equally into small paper ramakins or 
cups, or into tin cups if more convenient, and bake them 
in a quick oven for ten minutes. Arrange the cups when 
the soufil4s are done upon a hot plate and serve imme- 
diately. 



Ctt^STtfVT SOUFFLS. 



141 



If the tin cups are used, a napkin may be folded in 
basket shape upon the plate, and the tins be placed in it. 

Chicken Souffle. — The breast of one raw chicken, 
one gill of cream, one egg, one-half ounce of butter, one- 
half ounce of flour, one saltspoonful of white pepper, one 
saltspoonful of salt, two truffles. 

Take the skin from the breast of chicken, chop it 
finely and pound it when chopped, in a mortar. 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir into it the 
flour, and one tablespoonful of the cream. Let this boil, 
and when boiling take the saucepan from the fire and 
pour its contents over the chicken in the mortar, adding 
also one egg. 

Pound all well together and season with the pepper 
and salt. When pounded pass the mixture through a 
sieve, and putting the remainder, of the cream into a 
small bowl, beat it with a fork until it comes to a stiff 
froth ; mix this very lightly with the strained, mixture, 
grease a few cup tins, and cutting the truffles into stars, 
place one of these in the bottom of each tih. ' 

Fill the tins about half full with the mixture, and 
place them into a sautie can half filled with boiling water, 
cover them with a round of greased paper and let them 
steam slowly for fifteen minutes. 

When done turn the souffles out upon a hot platter, 
having the truffle stars uppermost, and serve at once. 



Note. — Any shallow pan will answer if a saute pan is not availa- 
able, but care must be taken that the boiling water does not reach 
more than half way up the sides of the cup tins. 

Chestnut Souflli. — One pint of fresh chestnuts, 
one and one-half gills of milk, yolks of three egg, whites 



142 PUDpitfGS. 

of four eggs, one ounce of powdered sugar, one ounce of 
butter, one ounce of flour. 

Throw the chestnuts into boiling water and boil them 

until the shells begin to crack open. Take them from the 

water, remove their shells and inner skins, pound them in 

a mortar and make them perfectly smooth by passing 

,them through a sieve. 

Pour the milk over the chestnut-flour and stirring 
this together, put the mixture into a small saucepan and 
let it .cook over a slow fire for ten minutes. * 

At the end of this time melt the butter in a separate 
saucepan, stir into it the flour and when these are mixed, 
pour in with them the milk and chestnuts. 

The instant this boils take it from the fire, and adding 
the sugar and yolks of eggs, beat all well together. Whip 
the whites of eggs to a stifi' froth and stir this in lightly 
also, and greasing a pint and a half soufil6 tin^ pour into 
it the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. 

Serve in a silver souffle dish or in a folded napkin, and 
without any delay. 

PUDDINGS. 

Welcome Guest Pudding. — Eight ounces of bread 
crumbs, one-half pint of milk, four ounces of beef suet, 
three ounces of citron, four ounces of sugar, rind of one ' 
lemon, three ounces of ailmonds, four eggs, one grain of 
salt. 

Place four ounces of the bread crumbs into a bowl, 
and bringing the milk to the boiling point pour it over 
them. Cover the bowl with a plate, and allow the bread 
crumbs to soak in the milk for ten minutes. 



PIG PUDDING. 143 

While the breiad crumbs are soaking, pour over the 
almonds some boiling water to blanch them and remove 
their skins. 

Remove the skin from the suet and chop it very 
finely, and chop the almonds. 

Stir into it the bowl with the soaked bread crumbs the 
four remaining ounces of crumbs, add to this the chopped 
suet and almonds, also the grated rind of lemon together 
with the sugar and citron, which last must have been cut 
into very small pieces. 

Separate the yolks from the whites- of the eggs vety 
carefully, drop the yolks one by one into the bowl and 
stir all well together. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, add- 
ing the grain of salt to cool and lighten it. Mix this 
lightly also with the other ingredients in the bowl, and 
taking a quart mould, dry it thoroughly, and greasing the 
interior with butter, pour into it the mixture and place 
securely over the top a greased sheet of kitchen paper. 

Place the mould when filled, in a deep saucepan con- 
taining enough boiling water to reach half way up the 
sides, and let the pudding boil therein for two hours. 

When done the mould should be removed from the 
boiling water, allow two minutes for it to cool, and then 
turn the pudding out upon a hot platter. 

This pudding should be served either with a jam, wine 
or lemon sauce, to prepare which see directions for sauces, 
pages 167 and 168. 

Kg Pudding. — One-half pound of figs, one-half 
pound of bread crumbs, one- half pound of sugar, one- 
half pound of beef suet, three eggs. 

Remove the skin from the suet, chop it very finely. 



144 ' PilDDWGS. 

put it into a bowl and chopping the figs also very finely 
mix toth together. Stir into this the bread crumbs, beat 
in a separate bowl the eggs and sugar, mix this with the 
figs, suet and bread crumbs, and greasing the interior of a 
melon mould pour this ndixture into it, put on the cover 
and plunging it into a large saucepan pf boiling water, 
let it with its contents boil for two hours. 

When done the pudding should be turned out upon a 
hot platter and served with wine or brandy sauce' poured 
around it, for the preparation of which sauces, see pages 
167 and 168. 

Albert Pudding. — One-quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, one-quarter of a pound of flour, one-quarter of a 
pound of sugar, three eggs, rind of one lemon, two ounces 
of raisins. 

Grease well a pint and a half pudding mould with but- 
ter and seeding the raisins, stick them against the walls of 
the mould at intervals so that they may garnish the exte- 
rior bf the pudding when done. 

Put the butter into a bowl, rub into it the sugar with 
the back of a wooden spoon, and if the weather is cold 
the butter will require to be warmed a' little, care being 
taken that it, does not oil. Add to this cream of butter 
and sugar, a little of the flour aiid the yolk of one of the 
eggs. Stir all w?ll together and repeat this process until 
the flour and eggs are jfll used. 

Add to the mixture now the grated lemon rind, whi}; 
the whites of the eggs taa stiff" froth and stir this in also, 
very lightly. 

By this time the butter with which the mould is 
grease;d will have cooled and the pjidding may be poured 
in, using a little care to avoid disarranging the raisins. 



AVNT MARTHA'S PUDDING. 



145 



When the mould is filled, cover its mouth with a piece 
of greased paper and, sinking it half its length into a 
saucepan of boiling water, boil the pudding therein for an 
hour and a half. 

When the pudding is boiled, turn it out of the mould 
upon a hot platter and pour around it a jam or lemon 
sauce, directions for making which will be found upon 
pages, 167, and 167. 

IiOwell Pudding. — Four teacupfuls of flour, one 
teacupful of beef suet, one and one-half teacupfuls of 
sweet milk, one and one-half teacupfuls of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. 

Put the flour into a bowl and removing the skin from 
the suet, chop it very finely and mix it with flour. When 
these are well mixed add the milk and sugar. 

Put the bi-carbonate of soda upon a plate and make 
it smooth with the back of a spoon, add this with the salt 
the other ingredients and stir all very thoroughly to- 
gether. 

Pour the pudding into a well greased pudding mould 
and put on the cover, place the mould into a large 
saucepan, cover it with boiling water and let it boil there- 
in for three hours. 

When done remove the mould from the boiling water, 
let it cool for a moment, and turn the pudding out upon 
a hot platter, and serve with a hard or wine sauce;, to pre- 
pare which see pages 168, and 168. 

Auut Martha's Pudding. — Six ounces of bread 
crumbs, one gill of milk, yolks of three eggs, whites of 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, three 
ounces of sugar, one-half dozen of preserved cherries. 

Grease a pint pudding mould thoroughly inside with 



146 PUDDINGS. 

butter ; stick into the bottom of it the preserved cher^ 
ries in order that they may garnish the top of the pud- 
ding. 

V Put the milk into a small saucepan and bring it to the 
boiling point, and putting the bread crumbs into a basin, 
throw over them the boiling milk. 

Place in a separate bowl the yolks of eggs, and with 
them the sugar, and beat these well together., Whip the 
whites of the eggs into a stiff froth, and mix them lightly 
together with the yolks and sugar. Add to this the 
essence of vanilla, and mix this together with the soaked 
bread crumbs and milk, stirring all thoroughly. 

Pour the pudding now into the mould, cover the' 
mouth of it with a piece of greased kitchen paper, place 
the mould into a saucepan containing sufficient water to 
reach half way up its sides,' and bqil the pudding therein 
for one hour and twenty minutes. 

When done, take the mould from the water, and let- 
ting it cool for a moment, turn the pudding out upon 
a hot platter and serve with a jam sauce, the recipe for 
making which, will be found upon page 167. 

Cabinet Pudding. — One dozen lady fingers, one 
ounce of ratifias, four eggs, one ounce of sugar, three 
ounces of stale Qake, one pint of milk, one teaspoonful of 
essence of vanilla, one dozen preserved cherries. 

Grease the sides and bottom of the interior of a pint 
and a half souffl6 tin. Arrange in the bottom of this 
the cherries,>o that when the pudding is turned out they 
may garnish its top. Line the mould with the lady fin- 
gers, placing them perpendicularly around with their flat 
sides against the sides of the mould. Break up what 
remains of the lady fingers and throw the pieces into the 



LEMON PV DOING. 1 47 

centre of the mould. Crush the ratiiias in the hand, and 
throw them in also, and upon this, the stale cake broken 
into small irregular pieces. 

Put the sugar into a bowl, and with it the eggs, 
beating these together until very light with a fork. When 
this is beaten, add to it the milk and vanilla, pour this 
mixture into the mould slowly, letting it have time to 
soak into the cake, and so making room enough for all of 
the liquid. 

When filled, cover the mould with a piece of greased 
kitchen paper, and standing it into a saucepan containing 
sufficient boiling water to reach half way up the sides of 
the tin, allow the pudding to boil in this for one hour and 
twenty minutes. 

When done, remove the mould from the saucepan, let 
it cool a moment, and then turning the pudding out 
upon a flat pudding dish, serve it immediately with a 
lemon sauce poured around, the directions for making 
which, will be found among the sweet sauces, page 167. 

Iiemon Fudding.-^Six ounces of flour, three ounces 
of butter, one-half gill of cold water, one grain of salt, 
three lemons; three ounces of bread crumbs^ five 
ounces of powdered sugar, one gill of cream, yolks of six 
eggs, whites of two eggs. ' 

Put the flour upon a mixing board and rub into it the ^ 
butter with the hands. Add to this the grain of salt, and 
making a little well in the centre of the flour, pour into it 
the cold water and knead all into a light dough. 

When kneaded, flour a rolling-pin and roll the dough 
out very thinly. Wet the edges of a vegetable dish with 
cold water, cut some strips from the paste three inches in 
width, and line with this the edge of the dish all aroun^, 



148 PUDDINGS. 

Cut also from the dough some small lozenges about the 
size of a thimble top, and arrange these around the dish 
upon the lining of dough, letting them slightly overlap 
each other in describing the circle. 

Put the bread crumbs now into a bowl, and grate over' 
them the rind of the lemons. Add to this the sugar, and 
then squeeze over all the juice of the lemons. Drop 
into the bowl one by one the yolks of the eggs, beating 
the mixture well while dropping them. Pour the cream 
over all, whfip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
stir this in also, very lightly, when the mixture should 
be poured into the vegetable dish,, the dish be placed 
in a moderate oven, and the pudding baked for thirty 
minutes. 

Sir Watkia Wynnes Pudding. — Three ounces 
of beef suet, six ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of 
sugar, two eggs, one and 'One-half tablespoonfuls of 
Orange marmalade. 

Take the skin from the suet and chop it very finely. 
Put this when chopped into a bowl and add to it the 
bread crumbs and marmalade. 

In a separate bowl place the sugar and eggs, beating 
them very lightly together, when this should be poured 
into the bowl with the suet, bread crumbs and marmalade, 
and mixed thoroughly together. 

Grease the inside of a pudding mould with butter, 
pour the preparation into it, put on the cover of the 
mould and putting this into a saucepan containing enough 
boiling water to cover it, boil the pudding therein for 
one hour and a half. 

When done remove the mould from the saucepan and 
the pudding from the mould, and placing the latter upon 



LLANBERRIES PUbDING. 



149 



a hot flat pudding dish, pour around it just before serving 
a lemon sauce ; to make which see directions on page 167. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. — Four slices of 
bread, one-half pint of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of lemon-juice, two ounces of curratits, two ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of butter. 

Remove the crusts from the bread and spread each 
slice with the butter. 

Grease with butter the inside of a deep pudding dish 
and place a slice of bread in the bottom thereof. Sprinkle 
over this a layer of currants, when a slice of bread should 
be placed upon top of these, another layer of currants 
sprinkled over this, and repeating this process arrange all 
of the bread and currants into the dish. 

Beat together in a bowl until very light the sugar and 
eggs, add to these the milk and lemon-juice, and pour 
this mixture over the preparation in the pudding dish. 

Let them stand for one hour, in order that the bread 
may absorb the liquid poured upon it, after which it must 
be baked in a quick oven twenty minutes, 

This pudding may be eaten with milk or cream. 

Notes. — Currants should always be washed long eriough before 
required foruse to enable them to become perfectly dry* otherwise they 
will cause » pudding or whatever they may be used in to be both 
sticky and heavy. 

They must be dried by exposure to the sun and air and not in an 
oven, as artificial heat hardens them, 

Iilanberries Pudding. — One-quarter of a pound 
of butter, one-quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, one- 
quarter of a pound of flour, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of orange marmalade, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

First put the butter into a bowl ^d beat it with the 



I50 PUDDINGS, 

sugar to a cream. Stir into this a little of the flour and 
a little of the marmalade alternately until the full quantity 
of each is stirred in. Drop into this mixture then the 
yolks of the eggs, sprinkle over these the baking-powder 
and beat all thoroughly together. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to astifif froth and stir this 
also into the bowl, taking care not to beat down the froth 
in the process. 

Grease with butter the inside of a pint and a half 
souffld tin, pour into it the pudding and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for one hour. 

Before placing the souffle tin into the oven, a band ot 
greased paper should be arranged around the top of the 
tin in order to keep the pudding from bursting over the 
sides should the heat of the oven cause it to rise quickly. 

When the pudding is done it should be turned out 
upon a hot flat dish and served with a custard sauce 
poured around it. The recipe for this sauce will be found 
upon page i68. 

Tapioca Fuddingi^ — Three ounces of tapibca, three 
gills of milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, two eggs, one 
saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Cover the tapioca with cold water twelve hours before 
the pudding is to be prepared, and let it soak in this until 
required. 

- When about to use, drain the tapioca as thoroughly as 
possible of the water, and when as dry as it can be made, 
put the tapioca into a saucepan, pour over it the milk, 
and placing it over the fire, stir slowly until the milk boils. 

Take the saucepan from the fire, place the eggs 
and sugar into a bowl, and beating them to a cream, pqur 
this into the saucepan with the tapioca and milk. 



VER TON P U DOING. \ 5 1 

Grease with butter a deep pudding dish, pour into it 
the pudding, sprinkle over the top the grated nutmeg, 
and put all to bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

Overton Pudding. — Seven ounces of flour, three 
ounces of butter, one-half teaspoonful of baking powder, 
one-half gill of cold water, three tablespdonsfuls of pre- 
served strawberries, three ounces of dry cake crumbs, one 
gill of milk, one teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, three 
ounces of powdered sugar, one saltspoonful of salt. 

First rub the cake crumbs through a coarse wire sieve 
into a bowl. Bring the milk to the boiling point, and pour 
it over the crumbs, to which add also the essence of vanilla. 

Place upon a mixing board the flour, and into this 
rub the butter with the hands, sprinkle oVer this the salt, 
make a hole in the centre of the flour, pour into it the 
cold water, and kneading from the edges into this, mix 
all to a light paste. 

Rub a little flour upon a rolling-pin, and with it roll 
out the paste to the thinness of a quarter of an inch, and 
cut from this ten lozenges about the size of a silver half 
dollar. 

Cut ten smaller lozenges of about half the circumfer- 
ence of the first, and, brushing a small platter over with 
cold water, roll the remaining crust out to the proper 
size, and line the platter therewith. Wet the edges of the 
lining paste with a little cold water, and arrange around 
them at equal distances, the largest lozenges. Upon these 
place the small lozenges, pressing them down in the cen- 
tre with the tip of the finger, spread over the centre sur- 
face of the crust-lined platter the preserved fruit, over 
this, spread the soaked cake crumbs, and sprinkle overall 
the sugar. 



152 PUDDINGS. 

Place the platter into a quick oven, and let the 
pudding bake therein for twenty-five minutes. Serve 
upon the platter on which the pudding is made. 

Wakefield Pudding.— Four slices of bread, four 
tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam, one ounce of sugar, one 
ounce of corn starch, one-half pint of milk, two eggs. 

Cut the crust from the slices of bread, and place one 
of them in the bottom of a deep puddiiig dish. Spread 
over this a tablespoonful of the jam, an(^ so arrange alter- 
nate layers of bread and jam, one upon the other in the 
dish, until the given quantities of each are filled into it. 

Put the corn starch and sugar into a bowl, and moist- 
ening them with a tablespoonful of the milk, mix these 
together. Drop into this mixture the eggs, and beat all 
with a fork until very light. 

Put the remainder of the milk into a small saucepan 
over the fire, and when it boils pour it over the mixture 
in the bowl, stirring all the time while pouring. 
Pour the liquid preparation now over the bread and jam 
in the pudding dish, and) placing the pudding dish into 
a quick oven, bake its contents for half an houn Serve 
in the dish in which the pudding is prepared. 

English Plum Pudding.— One-half pound' of 
bread crumbs, one-half pound of beef suet, one-half pound 
of flour, one-half pound of sugar, one-half pound of rais- 
ins, one-half pound of curraiits, one teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon, one teaspoonful of powdered ginger, 
one-quarter pound of citron, rind of one lemon, one gill 
of milk, four eggs, one-half teaspoonful of baking-powder, 
one-quarter of a nutmeg. 

Chop the suet, after taking oflF the skin very finely, 
and put it together with the flour and bread crumbs into 



AMBER PUDDING. 153 

a large bowl. Seed the raisins, wash and dry the currants 
thoroughly and mix these together, grate the lemon-rind 
and the nutmeg over them, and adding the ginger and 
cinnamon, mix all thoroughly together. 

Stir the fruit mixture into the bowl with the suet, add 
to this compound the sugar, baking-powder and citron, 
which must be cut into small thin pieces ; in a sepa- 
rate bowl beat the eggs until very light, add to them the 
milk, and when these are thoroughly ^lended, pour the 
liquid over the preparation in the large bowl, and stir all 
well together. Grease a quart pudding mould with but- 
ter, put the pudding into it and shut the cover securely 
over it, then plunging the mould into a large saucepan 
filled with boiling water, let the pudding boil therein for. 
four hours. 

When done, the pudding should be turned out upon a 
hot platter and served with brandy sauce, to prepare 
which, directions will be found on page 167. 

Note, — Plum paddings are prettier when boiled in a mould, but 
the traditional plum pudding is boiled in a double pudding cloth 
greased with butter for the purpose, and served with plain brandy 
poured over and around it, which is fired and the pudding so envel- 
oped in the historical blaze of glory. 

Amber Pudding. — Two pounds of apples, six 
ounces of flour, three ounces of butter, one gill of cold 
water, four eggs, rind of one lemon, three ounces of 
sugar, one-half tcaspoonful of baking powder, one grain 
•fsalt. 

Pare, quarter, and core the apples. Put into a small 
saucepan two ounces of sugar and half of the cold water, 
and place this over the fire ; when it boils put iutb it the 
apples and the lemon rind. Coyer the saucepan and let 



154 



PUDDINGS. 



its contents simmer very slowly until the apples are 
cooked, and while they are cooking, mix together upon a 
mixing board the flour and butter ; add to this the baking 
powder and salt, and knead all to a Ifght dough with the 
remaining cold water. 

Roll this dough out very thinly, cut it into strips about 
three inches wide, and wetting the' edges of a pudding 
dish with cold water, line them with the strips of 
dough, also cut some small lozenges from the fragments 
of dough remaining, and place them ornamentally around 
on the rim of dough. 

Take the apples from the saucepan, and pouring 
them into a sieve, rub them through it, in order to make 
them perfectly smooth. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, drop- 
ping the yolks into the apples, and putting the whites 
upon a dry plate. Stir the apples and yolks of eggs to- 
gether, and pour these when blended, into the pudding 
dish. The pudding dish must be placed in a quick oven 
and allowed to remain ten minutes to bake the paste arid 
cook the eggs, and while this is being done, whip the 
whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and when the pudding 
is taken from the oven, pile this froth upon the top of the 
apple very high, and smooth it over with a knife blade. 
Sprinkle over this the remainder of the powdered sugar, 
and return the dish to the oven for two minutes, that the 
froth of egg may set and brown slightly on the surface. 
Serve this pudding hot. 

Veuoise Pudding. — Five ounces of wheat bread, 
four ounces of sugar, three ounces of sultana raisins, two 
ounces of citron, one glass of sherry, one-half pint of railk, 
yolks of four eggs, one teaspootiful of essence of vanilla. 



kAIL fVAV P VDDING. 1 5 5 

Cut the bread into dice and place it into a large bowl 
with three ounces of the sugar. Cut the citron in small, 
thin pieces and put these also into the bowl. 

Place the raisins upon a towel and folding the ends of 
it over them rub them therein until the stems are all sep- 
arated, and adhering to the cloth ; then the raisins must 
be picked out and thrown into the bowl with the rest, and 
the sherry be poured over all. 

Put the remaining ounce of sugar into a small sauce- 
pan over the fire and let the sugar brown. Pour the milk 
over the sugar when brown, and drawing the saucepan 
aside from the fire stir the milk, until the sugar dissolves 
and colors it. Drop the yolks of eggs into a small bowl 
and over these pour the colored milk, stirring all together 
as the milk is poured in. ' 

Over the dry preparation in the, large bowl, pour the 
liquid from the small bowl, grease a proper sizeii pudding 
mould and into this put the pudding, secure over the top 
a greased piece of kitchen paper, place the mould into a 
saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to reach half 
way up its sides and allow the pudding to boil therein for 
one hour and a half. 

When done turn the pudding out upon a hot platter 
and serve with a German Sweet Sauce poured around, 
see page, i66. 

Railway Pudding. — One teacupful of powdered 
sugar, one teacupful of flour, one ounce of butter, one des- 
sert spoonful of baking powder, three eggs, one-half dozen 
drops of essence of almonds, one tablespoonful of milk. 

Grease thoroughly with the butter the inside of a bread 
tin. Mix together in a large bowl the flour and sugar, 
and add to these when mixed the baking powder. 



156 PUDDINGS. 

Break the eggs into a small bowl and beat thent until 
very light, poui in with them the milk, drop into this the 
essence of almpnds and when these are well stirred to- 
gether pour all over the preparation in the large bowl. 

Now stir all together and when this is done pour the 
mixture into the bread tin, and placing this in a very quick 
oven bake it for ten minutes. 

When baked take the pudding from the oven, cut it 
into six or eight equal pieces and arranging these upon a 
flat dish, sprinkle over them a little powdered sugar. A 
wine sauce should be sent to the table with this to be 
poured in ladlefuls over the pieces of pudding as.they are 
served. See sauces page, 168. 

Notes. — This pudding should be put into the oven immediately 
after it is mixed. The baking-powder begins to ferment the instant 
that it is moistened and it is this process which must be take^ advan- 
tage of in baking quickly, to raise the pudding and make it light. 

This pudding may also be used as a tea cake and when so served 
the pieces should be split open and a spoonful of preserved fruit 
spread between the slices. 

Chocolate Pudding. — One-quarter of a pound of 
grated chocolate, one pint of milk, one-half ounce of gela- 
tine, two ounces of sugar, one teaspoonful of essence of 
vanilla, yolks of four eggs, one-half gill of cold water. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and allow it to 
soak therein for ten minutes. Place the gelatine when 
dissolved into a small saucepan ; put it over the fire and stir 
slowly until melted, taking care that it does not boil. 

When melted take the saucepan from the fire and allow 
the gektine to cool a little. 

Mix together the milk and grated chocolate, until they 
come to a smooth paste , then in a fresh saucepan stir the 



iTAUAN PUDDING. 



157 



mixture over the fire until boiling. Drop the yolks of 
eggs into a bowl, cover them with the sugar and pour ovei 
all the hot chocolate mixture. 

Return this compound to the saucepan, place it over 
the fire and let its contents cook for two minutes, stirring 
constantly to prevent boiling. 

Remove the saucepan at the end of this time from the 
fire ; stir into the mixture it contains the melted gelatine 
and drop in the essence of vanilla. 

Dip a pint and a half mould into cold water (o wet it 
inside and so prevent the pudding sticking ; pour into it 
the pudding and set it away in a cool dry place, until 
the gelatine congeals and the pudding has ' set ' in the 
mould, and when this transpires turn the pudding out 
upon a crystal dish and serve. 

Italian Pudding. — One-half of a quart can of pre- 
served peaches, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, two 
eggs, one gill of milk, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, two 
ounces of sugar. 

Arrange upon a flat dish a layer of the peaches ; cover 
this with with a blanket of the bread crumbs, and in this 
way arrange alternate layers of the fruit and bread crumbs 
until the specified quantity be used. 

Put the yolks of the eggs into a bowl and with them 
one ounce of sugar, bring the gill of milk to the boiling 
point and pouring this over the yolks of eggs and sugar, 
stir all together and throw into the mixture the lemon- 
juice. 

Pour this liquid over the fruit and bread crumbs by 
spoonfuls, in order that it may be absorbed thereby — and 
the preparation so become moistened but not juicy; 
when this is done place the pudding in a moderate oven 



158 PUDDINGS. 

and bake it for half an hour. At the end of this time take 
the pudding from the oven, beat the whites of the eggs to 
a light froth and pile this roughly upon the top of it. 
Sprinkle over all the remaining ounce of sugar, place the 
dish once more in the oven for five minutes, to firm the 
froth of egg and brown it also slightly. Serve at once. 



Note. — This pudding may also be made with preserved apples or 
pears as taste or convenience may dictate. 

Apple Dumplings. — Five apples, twelve ounces of 
flour, four ounces of butter, one ounce of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, one and one-half gills of cold 
water, one' saltspoonful of salt. 

Rub this flour and butter together in a bowl, add to 
them the baking powder and the salt, and with the cold 
water mix all to a firm dough. 

Place this dough upon a mixing board, and cut it into 
five equal pipces. 

Pare the apples now very thinly, and take from them 
their cores, leaving the form of the apple unbroken. Roll 
the dough into balls, and taking an apple, work it into the 
centre of a ba,ll of the dough ; and just before closing the 
ball so formed at the top, put into the place of the apple 
cores, a portion of the sugar. 

When the apples are all prepared in this way with the 
dough and ' sugar, place them into a baking tin, and the 
baking tin into a quick oven for half an hour. , 

At the end of half an hour test the dumplings with a 
skewer, and if the apples be not soft to the centre, they 
must renjain in the oven until the skewer proves them 
entirely done. 



SWISS msSOLMS. 15^ 

When done, take them from the oven, brush each over 
with a little milk, sprinkle them with a little sugar, and 
return all to the oven for one minute, and serve them 
with a hard sauce, directions for making which, will be 
found on page 168. 

Swiss Rissoles. — One-half pound of pears, one- 
quarter pound of raisins, two ounces of sugar, eight 
ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, one egg, one-half 
gill of cold water, one-half of a lemon. 

First pare and core the pears, cut them into small 
pieces, squeeze into a saucepan the juice of the lemon, 
add to it half of the cold water and an ounce and a half 
of the sugar, and placing the saucepan over the fire, let 
its contents come to the boiling point ; when boiling, 
throw into it the pears, also the raisins, and let them cook 
therein very slowly for half an hour. 

When done, turn the mixture out upon a plate. 
When quite cool make up a crust by mixing upon a board 
the flour and butter, make a hole in the centre of this 
into which drop the yolk of egg, pour over the reniaining 
cold water, and knead all lightly together. 

Roll this out to about an inch in thickness, and cut 
it into pieces about four inches square. Beat the white 
of the egg lightly, and brush the edges of the crust with 
it ; put into each of these squares an equal quantity of the 
cold mixture from the plate, fold the edges together, brush 
over each a little of the white of egg, sprinkle over each 
a little of the sugar, and placing the rissoles upon a slightly 
floured baking tin, bake them in a modeirate oven for 
half an hour. Serve in a folded napkin. 

Feaoh-Sago. — One quart of peaches, one-half pound 
of sago, three ounces of sugar, one pint of cold water. 



i6o puhdings. 

Put the sago into a pudding dish, cover it with the 
cold water and allow it to soak therein for two hours. 
And when the sago is sufficiently soaked, skin and stone 
the peaches, place them regularly upright in the sago, 
sprinkle over all the sugar, and placing the pudding dish 
into a moderate oven, let the pudding bake for one hour. 
Serve hot. 

Com Starch Pudding.— Four tablespoonsfuls of 
corn starch, one quart of milk, two ounces of sugar, one 
saltspoonful of salt, two bay leaves, two eggs. 

Put the milk into a saucepan over the fire, and while 
it is heating, moisten the com starch with a little cold 
milk, and beat it smooth, just before the milk reaches 
the boiling point, crush the bay leaves in the hands that 
the flavor may be more readily drawn out, and throw 
them into the milk, after which stir in the corn starch. 
Stir all constantly until boiling, and when boiling allow 
this to continue for five minutes, still stirring to pre- 
vent scorching, which the com starch and milk are both 
apt to do. 

Draw the saucepan then aside from tlie fire to let its 
contents cool a little, and in the time allowed for this 
beat together the eggs and sugar. Add to the sugar and 
eggs the salt, and removing the bay leaves from the mix- 
ture in the saucepan,, stir into it the sugar aftd eggs, after 
which all must be poured into a small pudding dish, and 
this be placed in a moderate oven and permitted to 
bake for ten minutes. This pudding should be served 
hot. 



Note.— Com starch felanc-mange may be prepared exactly as is 
is the above pudding, except that the eggs must be left out, and in- 



tiVELFTH-DA V PaNCAKjSS. i6i 

stead of being baked, the preparation must be poured into moulds 
and allowed to stand iu them until cooled into forms. This blanc- 
mange is served with jam or jelly, and sweet cream. 

Twelfth-Day Pancakes. — Three ounces of flour, 
two eggs, one-half pint of milk, one ounce of sugar, one 
saltspoonful of salt, one'half of a lemon, three ounces of 
butter. 

Put the flour into a large bowl. In the centre of this 
make a little well, into which drop the yolks of the eggs. 
Sprinkle over these the salt, and pouring in upon this 
little by little the milk, mix the flour into the centre from 
the sides until all the milk is added, andithe flour thor- 
oughly mixed with the other ingredients, the yolks of eggs 
thus helping to prevent the flour lumping through the 
small percentage of oil which they contain. 

Whip the whites of eggs now to a stiff" froth, and stir 
this lightly into the batter, and when this is done melt 
one-fourth of the butter in a frying-pan, pour into this 
one-quarter of the batter from the bowl, and when this 
browns upon one side, turn it over with a pancake shovel 
or broad bladed knife, taking care not to break the cake 
in the process. 

When the second side is browned also, remove the 
cake to a plate, sprinkle it with a little of the sugar, 
squeeze over this a few drops of the lemon juice, roll the 
pancake quickly into a round roll, sprinkle over the top 
a little more of the sugar and a little more of the lemon- 
juice, and place it upon a platter to keep hot while the 
others are being fried. 

Divide the remaining batter into three equal parts, 
and in the manner above described pour into the frying- 
pan, fry and turn each portion until the three other pan- 



i62 Puddings. 

cakes are sugared, sprinkled with the lemon juice, rolled 
and placed beside the first, when they may be arranged 
in the fashion of a cob-house, or as the fancy may direct 
upon the hot platter, and should be served at once. 



Note. — This batter may also be fried in smaller sized cakes, and 
served, well buttered and very hot, as a breakfast dish. 

Rice Pudding.— One and one-half pints of milk, 
one-half a pound of rice, two ounces of sugar, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one egg, one ounce of butter. 

Grease a deep pudding dish thoroughly inside with 
the butter and pour into this the milk into which stir the 
dry rice. 

Cover the dish with a plate, to confine the steam and 
prevent premature browning on the top should the oven 
be very hot, and placing all in a moderate oven let the 
pudding bake slowly for an hour and a half by which 
time the kernels of rice will have soaked, and swelling 
absorbed nearly all of the milk, leaving the grains beau- 
tifully whole and the pudding devoid of the glutinous 
paste which by stirring processes is developed from the 
starch-flour of the broken rice. Ten minutes before re- 
moving the pudding from the oven beat the egg until very 
light, add to it the sugar and salt, and taking the plate oiif, 
of the pudding dish stir this mixture into the pudding, and 
allow to bake for the remaining ten minutes uncovered that 
it may brown on the surface. Serve with hard sauce 
directions for, making which may be found on page i68. 

Note. — This pudding may be further enriched by the addition of 
a quarter of a pound of raisins or if desired more plain than as above 
the egg may be omitted and the sugar alone stirred in when the pud< 
ding is uncovered to permit its browning, 



CAPER SAUCE. 163 

SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES. 

SAVORY SAUCES. 

Oyster Sauce. — One pint of oysters, one-half pint 
of milk, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one 
saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan, stir into it the flour and add to this by 
degrees the liquor from the oysters. 

When this mixture boils, throw into it the oysters and 
boil all together until the leaves of the fish begin to 
shrivel. Throw in the pepper, salt and nutmeg, and 
having boiled the milk in a separate saucepan, stir it in 
also ; then the saucepan must at once be removed from the 
fire otherwise the milk will curdle and the sauce be ruined. 

Egg Sauce. — One and one-half ounces of butter, 
three quarters of an ounce of flour, three gills of milk, one 
saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of white pepper, two 
hard boiled eggs. 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir into it the 
flour and by degrees add to these the milk. When this 
mijrture boils, throw into it the pepper and salt and let all 
cook together for two minutes. 

Remove the shells from the eggs, chop them into small 
irregular pieces, and stir these in. When this is done, the 
sauce is ready for use. 

Caper Sauce. — Two ounces of butter, one ounce 
of flour, one-half pint of milk, one-half pint of cold water 
one-half teaspoonful of white pepper, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two tablespoonf'.'ls of capers. 



164 SWEE T AND SA yOS Y SA UCES. 

Put the butter into a small saucepan and let it melt. 
Stir into this the flour and the milk ; when this comes ^o 
the boiling point, by degrees pour in the water. Let the 
mixture again boil up, season with the pepper and salt, 
and let all boil together for two minutes. 

At the end of this time throw in the capers and retaove 
the saucepan from the fire, the sauce being now ready for 
use. 



Note.— When this sauce is i»epared to be used with a leg of mut 
ton, a half pint of the liquor from the boiling meat may be substitu- 
ted for the cold water with ej^cellent flavoring effect. 

Mint Sa,tice. — Two tablespoonfuls of chopped mint, 
six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water, three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

The mint before beipg chbpped should be thoroughly 
washed, and when washed and chopped it must be placed 
in a gravy boat, the vinegar and water poured over it, 
and throvi^ing the sugar in to this, all should be stirred 
until the sugar melts. 

This sauce is designed for roast spring lamb. 



•I"" "' 
Note. — Two tablespoonfuls of white wine are sometimes substitu- 
ted for the cold water in preparing this sauce. 

Tartare Sauce. — ^Yolks of two eggs, one gill of 
salad oil, one saltspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful 
of pepper, one tablespoonful of white wine vinegar, one- 
half teaspoonful of French mustard, one tablespoonful of 
gherkins. 

The vinegar and yolks of eggs must first be slightly 
beaten together in a small bowl. Add to these drop by 
drop the salad oil, taking^ care to stir one way all the 



BREAD SAUCE. 165 

time. When this is done, season the mixture with the 
pepper, salt and mustard, add also the gherkins, finely 
chopped, and serve in a gravy boat with boiled salmon 
or cold meats. 



Nof E. — Capers may be used for this sauce if preferred, or if the 
< gherkins are not obtainable. 

Onion Sauce. — Two Spanish onions, one ounce of 
butter, one-half ounce of flour, three gills of milk, one 
saltspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Preparatory to making this sauce, soak the onions over 
night in water which must have been poured over them 
boiling. 

When required, take the onions from the soak, put 
them into a saucepan, and covering them with boiling 
water let them boil therein for half an hour. 

When boiled, take them from the water, chop them 
finely, and placing them in a bowl, cover them at once 
with the milk, in order to preserve their color. 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, 
and into this pour the onion and milk, when all must be 
allowed to come to the boiling point, and the pepper and 
salt then being added, the sauce must be permitted to 
boil thereafter for two minutes when it will be ready to 
serve. 

Bread Sauce. — Two ounces of bread, one-half pint 
of milk, one Bermuda onion, six pepper corns, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-half gill of white stock. 

Put the bread broken into convenient pieces into a 
bowl and cover it with jthe milk. Throw into the bowl 
also the onion, pepper corns and salt, together with the 
stock. Stir all together, after which, pouring the mixture 



l66 SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCfiS. 

into a small saucepan and placing this over the fire, allow 
all to cook slowly for half an hour. 

Skim out at the end of this time the pepper corns and 
onion, and serve the sauce in a gravy boat with roast 
fowl. 

Brown Sauce. — One carrot, one turnip, one-half 
stalk of celery, 6ne tablespponful of mushroom catsup, 
six drops of caramel, |wo ounces of butter, three quarter 
ounces of flour, three gills of second stock, one saltspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Melt the butter in a frying pan, and washing and 
paring the turnip and carrot, slice these into the melted 
butter, also the celery. 

Brown the vegetables well upon both sides and when 
this is done stir in the flour. Add by degrees the stock, 
stirring all constantly ; when the mixture boils, season it 
with the salt and pepper, and flavor with the catsup. Let 
all cook for two minutes, then drop in the caramel, and 
strain the sauce into a gravy boat for serving. 

This gravy is served with fried meats or 'fish, or broiled 
steak and cutlets. 

SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES, 

SWEET SAUCES. 

German Street Sauce. — Yo^lks of two eggs, one 
gill of sherry, one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cream. 

Put the yolks of eggs into a small saucepan, pour dver 
them the sherry and whisk these slightly with an egg- 
whisk. Add the' cream and sugar and placing the 
saucepan over a very slow fire, continue to use the egg- 



BRANDY SAUCE. 167 

whisk until the froth arises and from it the escaping 
steam. 

Remove the sauce from the fire and serve. 

Jam Sauce. — One heaped tablespoonful of jam, 
one-half ounce of sugar, one gill of sherry, one tablespoon- 
ul of cold water, six drops of cochineal. , 

Place the jam in a small saucepan, poiir over it the 
sherry and water, add to these the sugar and stir all over 
a brisk fire until the mixture boils. When boiling drop in 
the cochineal and the sauce is ready for serving. 

Lemon Sauce. — One lemon, six pieces of cut loaf 
sugar, one teacupful of cold water. 

Pare the rind from the lemon and cut this into strips 
the size of a straw. Put these straws of lemon-rind into 
a small saucepan together with the lumps of sugar and 
covering these with the cold water squeeze into the mix- 
ture the juice of the lemon. 

Put the saucepan over the fire and stir the contents 
until boiling ; when this takes place cover the saucepan, 
and drawing it to one side of 4he fire, let all simmer slowly 
for twenty minutes. 

This sauce should be poured over the pudding with 
which it is served, in order that the straws of lemon-rind 
may garnish the top of the pudding. 

Brandy Sauce. — One ounce of butter, one-half 
ounce of flour, one-half pint of cold water, one wine- 
glassful of brandy, one ounce of sugar. 

The butter must first be melted in a small saucepan, 
the flour stirred into it, and the water then added. 

When this comes to the boiling point let it continue 
to boil for two minutes, add the brandy and sugar, and 
^hen all is well stirred together, it is ready for serving. 



l68 SWEE T AND SA VOR V SA UCES,. 

Hard Sauce. — One-quarter pound of sugar, one 
quarter pound of butter, one-quarter of a nutmeg, white 
of one egg. , 

Put the sugar and butter together in a bowl and beat 
them to a cream, taking- care that the butter does not oil, 
which may be prevented by keeping it cool. 

Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix this 
lightly into the bowl. When this is done put the sauce 
into a crystal dish for serving, and grate over it the nut- 
meg. 

Custard Sauce.— Two eggs, three gills of milk, one 
dessert spoonful of sugar, one saltspoonful of grated nut- 
meg. 

Place the eggs in a bowl and beat them until, very 
light: Pour them into a quart pitcher, place the pitcher 
into a saucepan of boiling water, and throwing in the 
milk, stir it together with the eggs until they begin to 
thicken. 

Take the pitcher from the boiling water, stir the sugar 
and nutmeg into its contents, and pour the sauce around 
the pudding, with which it is to be served. 

Jelly Sauce. — Two heaped tablespoonfuls of cur- 
rant jelly, one-half of a lemon, one wineglassful of sherry, 
one ounce of sugar, six drops of cochineal, one saltspoon- 
ful of mace. 

Put the jelly into a small saucepan, squeeze over it 
the, juice of the lemon, add to this the sugar and wine, 
place the saucepan over the fire and stir its contents until 
the jelly melts ; then the cochineal and mace should be 
axlded, and the instant after this that the sauce boils, it is 
ready for serving. , 

yrine Sauce. — Two ounces of butter, three ounces 



ICED PUDDING. \tii^ 

of sugar, one and one-half gills of boiling water, one gill 
of sherry, one-half saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream in a bowl, pour 
over these the boiling water, stirring meantime, place the 
mixture into a saucepan and stir all over the fire until 
very hot, not however, allowing it to boil. 

Add the sherry and nutmeg, and the sauce may at 
once be poured around the pudding with which it .s to 
be served. 

ICES, CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

ICES. 

loed Pudding. — Three gills of milk, three gills of 
cream, yolks of twelve eggs, ten ounces of sugar, six 
ounces of crystalized fruits, one small wine-glassful of 
brandy, one small wine-glassful of curacoa. 

Mix very thoroughly together the yolks of eggs, cream 
and milk. Place this mixture into a quart pitcher, and 
putting this into a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, 
stir the compound constantly until the egg yOlks begin to 
thicken all. 

Take the pitcher from the water, stir the sugar in 
with its contents, and allow this to stand until the cus- 
tard is quite cold. POur it into the freezer, and when it 
thickens by freezing to a thick batter and cleaves from 
th; sides in lumps, take the fruit, pour over it a little 
boiling water, and draining this off at once, cut the fruit 
into small pieces, throw upon them the curacoa and 
brandy, and turning this mixture into the half-frozen 
custard, freeze all until stiff enough to mould. 

Pour cold water into a quart mould, and having thor- 



I70 ICES. CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

oughly wetted the inside thereof, stick some of the crys- 
talized fruits around the sides and into the bottom of the 
mould for the purpose of garnishing the pudding. Then 
work the frozen mixture smoothly into the mould, taking 
care that it is packed evenly into all of the crevices, pack 
the mould in ice, and let it remain for one hour, when it 
will be ready to turn out and serve. 



Note. — Rock salt should be mixed with the ice used for freezing 
creams and puddings^ as it increases the degree of cold, and prevents 
the ice from melting. 

Frozen Pudding G-lao^ ; or Tutti-frutti.— 

One-quarter pound of raisins, one pint of milk, yolks of 
two eggs, one-quarter pound of powdered sugar, two 
ounces of sweet almonds, two ounces of candied cherries, 
two ounces of citron, two limes, one pint of cream, one 
inch stick of cinnamon. 

Stem and seed the raisins, put them into a saucepan 
with the milk and cinnamon, and placing this over the 
fire, let all simmer together for twenty minutes. 

While this is simmering, place the yolks of eggs and 
the sugar into a bowl and beat them well. At the end 
of the twenty ininutes strain the raisins and cinnamon 
from the milk, throw the cinnamon away and put the 
raisins aside for further use. 

Pour the strained milk over the yolks of eggs and 
sugar, and stirring them well together, return the mixture 
to the saucepan ; place this over the fire, still stirring, and 
allow the yolks of eggs to thicken, taking care that the 
milk does not boil. 

Take the saucepan from the fire, allow its con- 
tents to become quite cold, and while awaiting this, pour 



STRAWBERRY WATMR ICE. 171 

boiling water over the almonds to blanch them, remove 
their skins and chop them very finely. Cut the limes 
each into quarters, and the citron into very small thin 
pieces, add these all altogether with the cherries and 
raisins to the custard when it becomes cold, pour in upon 
them the cream, and stirring all well together, throw the 
pudding into the freezer and allow it to freeze until 
it is firm enough to mould ; then it should be firmly 
worked into a quart mould, which must have been wet 
with cold water to keep the mixture from sticking, and 
the mould packed into ice for one hour, that the pud- 
ding may form and firm. 

Iiemou Water Ice. — Four lemons, one-half pound 
of sugar, one and one-half pint of boiling water. 

Grate the rind from the lemons into a bowl, squeeze 
upon this the juice, add to this the sugar and, pour over 
all the boiling water, stirring the mixture meantime until 
..horoughly blended. 

Allow the preparation to stand until quite cold, after 
which strain it through a horse-hair sieve or a piece of 
muslin and throwing it into a freezer, freeze until very 
hard ; then the freezer must be packed in fresh ice to keep 
its contents from melting, and the water ice should be 
served from this, as required. 



Note. — Lemon water ices should be tasted always before frozen 
in order that more sugar may be added to the preparation, if it be 
found not to have the desired sweetness. 

Stravrberry Water Ice. — One pint of fresh 
strawberries, one and one-half pints of cold water, one-half 
of a lemon, three ounces of sugar, six drops of cochineal. 

Put the fruit upon ahbrse-hair sieve, sprinkle over it 



172 ICES, CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

a little of the sugar and rub all through the sieve. Mix 
the cold water with this strawberry syrup, add the sugar, 
squeeze in the juice of thp lemon, drop fai also the cochi- 
neal and stir them all well together ; pour the mixture 
into a freezer, freeze it until hard and pack the freezer in 
fresh ice to preserve its contents in a frozen condition 
until served. 

Iced Soufi9,€. — Yolks of six eggs, whites of two 
eggs, one, pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, one-half tea: 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, one pint of double cream. 

Beat the whites and yolks of eggs together, add to these 
tjie nutmeg and sugar and, heating the milk until almost 
at the boiling point, pour this over the mixture, stirring all 
together while pouring in the milk. Pour this into the 
saucepan in which the milk was boiled, and stir.it ovei 
the fire until the eggs begin to thicken, but exerci^np 
great care that the milk does not again boil; v 

Put the custard into a bowl and allow it to stand until 
quite cold ; then one-half pint of the cream should be 
stirred in and the whole be poured into a freezer and 
frozen until stiff enough to tie conveniently moulded. 

Work the frozen custard into a pint and a half souflle 
tin. Tie around the souffle tin a sheet of kitchen paper 
in such a manner as to increase the depth of the tin five 
or six inches. Whip the remaining cream to a stiff froth, 
pile this upon the Jop of the frozen custard', and setting 
the tin with its contents into a freezer, pile around this 
sufficient ice and rock salt to freeze the souffl^. 

This should be transferred carefully, when fiiozen, to a 
silver souffl^ dish, or served in the tin in which it is pre- 
pared, with a napkin folded around the same. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM. 173 

ICES, CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

CREAMS. 

Strawberry Ice Cream.— One pint of milk, four 
eggs, one and one-half pints of fresh strawberries, one 
quart of cream, one-half pound of sugar. 

Beat the eggs until very light, make the milk hot and 
pour it over them. Pour these together into a saucepan 
and stir them over the fire until the egg begins to thicken. 

Transfer the custard to a bowl and allow it to cool. 
In the meantime place the strawberries into a hair sieve, 
sprinkle over them a little sugar and then rub them 
through the sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. 
When this is done add the sugar to the syrup so formed 
and when the custard has become quite cold, stir the fruit 
mixture into it. Add the cream and stirring this well 
through the custard, pour all into a freezer, and freeze 
until quite solid, stirring the cream down from the sides 
from time to time, to keep it smooth while freezing unless 
the freezer be arranged to do this while being turned. 

Note, — In mixing rock salt with tlie ice to be used for freezing 
creams, etc. great care should be taken that not even a drop of salted 
water falls into the freezer itself, as the smallest quantity of salt inside 
will make the cream most diflScult to freeze, and when frozen, cause it 
to melt quickly. 

Veuailla Ice Cream. — One quart of cream, three 
pints of milk, one pound of sugar, eight eggs, four tea- 
spoonfuls oc essence of vanilla. 

Beat the eggs until very light, and heating the milk, 
pour it over them, stirring both well together. 

Place the eggs and milk in a bright saucepan, and stir 



174 IP^S, CREAMS AND ySLLIES. 

them over the fire until the eggs begin to thicken, not 
however allowing the mixture to boil, 

Pour the mixture into a large bowl, and when it 
becomes quite cool add to it the cream, vanilla, and 
sugar; when these are thoroughly stirred together, pour 
the custard into the freezer and freeze it moderately hard, 
remembering, to stir the cream down from the sides oc- 
casionally while it is being frozen, if the freezer be not 
arranged so as to make this unnecessary. 



Notes. — ^All fruit creams maybe made after the method here given 
for strawberry ice-cream, and all flavoring essences may be used as 
the vanilla is used in the above, which constitutes the only difference 
existing between the various creams made from extracts or essences. 

A delicious cream called Lalla Rookh, is made by the simple ad- 
dition of a small quantity of fine rum to each service of vanilla ice- 
cream, which must be stirred in as the cream \s eaten, and the amount 
of which may be regulated by the taste. 

Orange Cream.— One-half ounce of gelatine, one 
gill of cold water, one-quarter pound, of cut loaf sugar, 
one gill of milk, yolks of three eggs, one-half pint of 
double cream, four oranges, two lemons. 

First soak the gelatine in cold water for ten minutes, 
then taking the lumps of sugar rub them over the rinds 
of the oranges and lemons in order that the sugar may 
become impregnated with the flavor. Squeeze over the 
flavored Ivtmps of sugar then the juice of the oranges 
and lemons, pour upon them the milk, and stir all over 
the fire until the sugar melts, exercising the greatest 
care that the milk does not boil during the time, as boil< 
ing will cause it to curdle and spqil the cream. 

Place the yolks of eggs into a large bowl, pour over 
them the prepared milk and stir all together, when the 



CffAXLOTTS kUSSM. 175 

whole must be put into a saucepan and placed over the 
fire for two minutes to remove the raw taste of the eggs, 
and this being done the cream should be again turned 
into the bowl and left to cool. 

Now whip the double cream to a stiff froth, mix it 
lightly into the bowl when its contents have cooled, melt 
the soaked gelatine over the fire, not allowing- it to boil 
in the process, add it also to the preparation in the bowl, , 
and stir all together ; continue to stir the cream occa- 
sionally until the gelatine in it blends with the other in- 
gredients and begins to firm, otherwise it will sink to the 
bottom directly, and reunite in one firm mass as it cools. 

Prepare a mould by dipping it into cold \<^ater to pre- 
vent sticking, and pouring the cream into this, set it away 
in a dry cool place to harden and set into form. 

Charlotte Russe. — One-half pint of double cream, 
one-half ounce of gelatine, one-half gill of cold water, one 
ounce of sugar, one teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, 
white of one egg, one-quarter pound of lady-fingers, one 
dozen candied cherries. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and soak it for ten 
minutes. Put the cream into a bowl, and with an egg- 
whisk bring it to a very stiff froth, add to this the sugar 
and vanilla, then melt the gelatine over the fire and pour 
it into the cream very carefully. 

Now whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir 
this also into the bowl, being careful not to beat down 
the froth while stirring, after which prepare the lady-fin- 
gers by splitting them apart and cutting the sides of each 
so that they may fit squarely together, and line a pint 
souffi6 tin, with these placed perpendicularly. 

Pick the cherries up one by one ^ith a skewer, and 



t76 ICES, CREAMS AND JELLIMS. 

dipping them into cold water arrange them in any fanciful 
form in the, bottom of the tin ; when the cream has 
commenced to firm a little in the bowl, pour it into the 
mould very carefully, in order that the wall of lady- 
fingers may not become disarranged, and set the whole 
away to harden. 

When the charlotte russe has firmed sufficiently to be 
turned out of the mould, transfer it to a dessert dish, 
using care not to break its shape or to disarrange the 
cherries which garnish the top. 

Notes. — Charlotte nisse may also be made by baking a sponge 
cake in very thin sheets as for rolled jelly-cake, and cutting this into 
lengths about four inches wide and ten long, form these into small 
cups, sticking the'm together by brushing a little white of egg between 
the over-lapping ends. 

Arrange tiie cake cups upon a platter, placing a round of orna- 
mental paper under each, fill them two-thirds full with the cream 
prepared as above, and when this hardens, whip sufficient white of 
egg to a stiff froth, and fill up the cups, placing upon the top of each a 
small lozenge cut for the purpose from the sponge cake. When 
filled they should be covered over with a sheet of paper and placed 
in the oven for a moment to "set" the- white of egg' froth, when - 
they are ready to serve. The lozenges upon the top of each may 
be garnished with a raisin or candied cherry if desired. 

Rice Cream. — Two large tablespoonfuls of finely 
eracked rice, one pint of milk, one ounce of butter, two 
ounces of cut loaf sugar, rind of one lemon, one-half ounce 
of gelatine, one-half pint of double cream. 

Prepare the gelatine by soaking it in the milk for one 
hour. Put into a fresh, bright saucepan the butter, stir 
int^ it the rice, which must be as fine but not finer than 
granulated sugar, add to this by degrees the milk and 
gelatine and rubbing the lumps of sugar upon the rind 



VELVET CREAM. 



177 



of the lemon to flavor them, throw these into the sauce- 
pan, place the saucepan over the fire and stir its contents 
until the sugar melts and the mixture boils. 

Allow the boiling to continue for five minutes ; at the 
end of which time pour the compound into a bowl and 
set it aside until it becomes nearly cold. 

Beat the cream to a stiff froth, stir it lightly into the 
bowl, and pour all into a mould which must have pre- 
viously been prepared by being dipped into cold water, 
after which the mould should be packed in ice until the 
cream becomes sufficiently firm to turn out and serve. 
Rice cream should be served with raspberry jam sur 
rounding it. 

Velvet Cream. — One ounce of gelatine, one-halt 
pint of white wine, one lemon, three ounces of cut loaf, 
one pint of double cream, one-half gill of cold water. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak 
for ten minutes. Rub upon the rind of the lemon three 
or four of the lumps of sugar to flavor them, and 
placing these pieces of sugar in a copper or porcelain 
lined saucepan, squeeze over them the juice of the lemon, 
add to these the wine and the remainder of the sugar, 
together with the soaked gelatine and stir all over the fire 
until the gelatine melts. Pour the mixture from the 
saucepan through a strainer intO' a bowl and allow all to 
cool. 

When cool, whip the cream to a stiff froth, mix it 
lightly with the strained pr^aration, and pouring the 
cream so completed into a mould, pack the mould in ice 
and allow it to remain therein until its contents become 
firm enough to turn out in proper form and serve. 



tfS ICES, CREAMS AND fELLlE^. 

ICES CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

JELLIES. 

Iiemon Jelly;— One and one-half ounces of gelatine, 
one pint of cold water, rind of two lemons, juice of three 
lemons, one inch of stick cinnamon, three ounces of lump 
sugar, one and one-half gills of sherry, whites of two eggs. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and allow it to soak 
for ten minutes, after which pour all into a copper or por- 
celain-lined saucepan adding the rind and juice of the 
lemons. 

Throw into this the wine, stick of cinnamon and sugar 
and stir all over the fire until the gelatine melts. Put the 
whites of eggs into a bowl, whisk them slightly with an 
egg-whisk, pour them iftto the saucepan and continue 
using the egg- whisk in this until the liquid boils. 

Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover 
it, and allow its contents to simmer slowly for ten 
minutes. Dip a flannel bag into t;epid water, pour the 
contents of the water through it, and pouring the jelly 
into a mould, stand this upon ice, and when it has con- 
gealed and become firm, serve it turned out upon a crys- 
tal jelly dish. 

Orange Jelly. — Eight sweet oranges, two lemons, 
one-quarter pound of sugar, one gill of cold water, one 
ounce of gelatine. 

Cover the gelatine with half of the cold water, and let 
it soak for ten minutes. 

Put this into a saucepan, add to it the sugar with the 
remainder of the cold water, and stir all over the fire 
until the gelatine and sugar melt. 



CALF S FOOT JELLY. , 179 

Take the saucepan from the fire and having pressed 
out the juice of the oranges and lemons and strained it, 
add this to the contents of the saucepan, after which pour 
the mixture into a mould and stand the mould upon ice : 
when it becomes jelly, turn it out upon a crystal or other 
jelly plate, and serve. 

Calf's foot JeUy. — Two calf's feet, juice of two 
lemons, rinds of thtee lemons, one-quarter pound of cut 
loaf sugar, ten cloves, one inch of cinnamon stick, whites 
of three egg, one-half gill of sherry wine, three pints of 
cold water. 

Cut the feet into three pieces — ^across the first joint 
and through the hoof. Place them in a large saucepan 
cover them with cold water, and putting the saucepan 
over the fire, bring all quickly to the boiling point. 

When the water boils take the feet from the saucepan, 
and throwing them into a basin of cold water, wash them 
thoroughly. 

Put the feet when washed into a copper or porcelain- 
lined saucepan, pour over them the three pints of cold 
water, put the saucepan over the fire and when the water 
boils, draw it to one side and let its contents simmer very 
slowly for five hours. 

Strain the liquor through a horsehair sieve, or if this 
be not convenient, through a coarse towel, let the stock 
so extracted stand over night, and then removing the 
grease which will have gathered upon the top, dip a towel 
in boiling water and wash the surface of the stock 
which will be found quite firm, having stood for twelve 
hours. 

Now put the stock into a» copper or porcelain-lined 
saucepan, and placing this over the fire let it melt. Add 



l80 ICES, CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

to the melted stock the cinnamon stick, lemon rind and 
juice, sugar and cloves. 

Put the whites of eggs together with the shells which 
must have been blanched with boiling water, into a bowl, 
beat them slightly and pour them into the saucepan, con- 
tinuing to use the egg-whisk until all is boiling. 

When this point is reached, draw the satucepan imme- 
diately to the side of the fire, and allow its contents to 
simmer for ten minutes. 

During this time prepare a flannel, or what is better 
a felt ba,g, by pouring through it a little tepid water, and 
when' the jelly has simmered ten minutes, pour it through 
this bag into a bowl, and repeat the process of strain- 
ing until the jelly becomes perfectly clear. Pour it into 
a mould, and stirring into it the sherry, place the mould 
upon ice or in a very cool place until the jelly sets and 
becomes firm enough to turn out and serve. 



NOTK. — Brandy may be substituted for the Aeiiy in this prepara- 
tion if desired, and half brandy and half sherry is sometimes used to 
make up the quantity prescribed. 

Iiemon Sponge^ — One ounce of gelatine, one pint 
of water, two lempns, one-half pound of cut loaf sugar, 
whites of three eggs. 

Put the gelatine into a bowl, cover it with the cold 
water and let it soak for twenty minutes. At the end of 
this time add to it the. rind of the lemons, squeeze over 
the lemon juice, throw in the sugat and pour all into a 
copper or porcelain-lined saucepan, place the saucepan 
over the fire and stir its contents until boiling, after which 
it must be allowed to boil for two minutes. 

At the end of this time pour the mixture through a 



APPLE TRANSPARENCY. jgi 

sieve into a bowl, and let it remain therein until cold, but 
not long enough to set. 

Beat the whites of eggs slightly, pour them into 
the mixture in the bowl and stir all together, when all 
must be whisked with an egg-whisk until thick and white, 
which will take nearly or quite half an hour. 

Pour the sponge into a mould, stand this in a cool dry 
place, and when " set " turn it out upon, and serve in a 
■crystal dessert dish. 

Apple Transparency. — Six large apples, one pint 
of water, one-half pound of cut loaf sugar, rind of one 
lemon, six drops of cochineal, one-half ounce of gelatine, 
white of one egg. 

Put the gelatine into a bowl, and pour over it half a 
gill of the cold water, and allow' it to soak in this for half 
an hour. 

Pare the apples and take the core from them without 
breaking the form of the fruit. 

Put the sugar into a shallow saucepan and with it the 
lemon rind, pour over this the remainder, of the cold 
water, and stir all until boiling. Into this syrup throw 
the apples, cover the saucepan, and placing it over the 
fire, let all cook very slowly until the apples become ten- 
der, and may easily be pierced through with a skeWer or 
fork. 

Remove the apples without breaking them, and place 
them in a crystal dish. 

Throw the gelatine into the syrup that remains in the 
saucepan, stir all until the gelatine is melted, pour the 
mixture through a strainer into a bowl, add to it the 
cochineal, and stand the bowl in a cool dry place until 
fhe syrup conceals. 



1 82 PIES AND PASTRIES. 

' Cut the jelly so made into rough pieces, distribute it 
among the apples in the dessert dish, and whipping the 
white of egg to a stiff froth, garnish the dish with this. 



Note. — Double cream is cream that has been twenty-fours hours 
in rising. Single cream rises in tnrelve hours, and cream for butter 
requires forty-eight. 

PIES AND PASTRIES. 
PASTRIES. 

Fuff Paste. — One-quarter pound of butter, one- 
quarter pound of flour, yolk of one egg, one-half gill of 
cold water, six drops of lemon juice. 

Sift the flour through a fine sieve upon a mixing 
board. Put the yolk of egg into a small bowl and add to 
it the lemon juice and cold water, beating these together 
with a fork. \ 

Make a well then in the centre of the flour, pour into 
it by degrees the mixture from the bowl and mixing in the 
flour from the sides, knead all firinly together. 

Flour a rolling-pin and roll the paste out very thinly, 
place the butter in the corner of a towel, and covering 
it with the opposite corner, press out in this any moisture 
that the butter may contain, spread it upon half of the 
crust, fold the other half oyer it, and press the edges 
tightly together. 

Roll this out again very thinly, taking care that the 
butter does not escape between the edgfes. 

Fold the crust again in three layers, and again roll it 
out, but rolling across instead of lengthwise, in order that 
the butter may not run in streaks by being always rolle^ 



SHORT CRUST. 



183 



the same way, and repeat this process of folding and roll- 
ing seven times, remembering to let the crust cool be 
tween the rollings, otherwise the butter will oil 

The paste may now be used for vol-au-vent, or what- 
ever purpose required. 



Note. — If a larger quantity of this paste is required, it should be 
made in divisions, as a larger amount than is given above is not so 
successfully manipulated. When flour is in the least inferior, the 
quantity of matter must be decreased, as there will not be sufiScient 
gluten in it to absorb the quantity of moisture. 

Flaky Crust. — One pound of flour, one-half pound 
of butter, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-half gill of cold water, whites of two 
eggs. 

Sift the flour through a sieve upon a mixing board. 
Put the whites of eggs upon a plate, add to them the salt 
and whip all to a light froth. Mix the flour to a firm 
dough with the froth of eggs and the cold water, roll it 
out very thinly, divide the butter into three pieces and 
spread one of them upon the dough. 

Fold the dough in three layers and roll it out thinly 
again, reversing the order of rolling each time. Repeat 
this process until theliutter is all rolled into the dough 
when the crust is ready for use and may be used for meat 
pies, or fruit tarts. 

Short Crust. — Six ounces of flour, four ounces of 
butter, one-half gill of cold water, one-half teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, yolk of one egg. 

Place the flour when sifted upon a mixing board, add 
to it the butter and rub these gently together with the 
finger tips until all look like i)'cad crumbs. 



l84 ' PI^S AND PASTRIES. 

Make a little hole in the centre, of the flour and but- 
ter, drop into it the yolk of egg, pour over it the lemon- 
juice, and adding the cold water by degrees, knead all 
lightly together. 

This crust is used only for fruit tarts and must' be 
rolled out to about a quarter of an inch thickness when 
required. 

Suet Crust. — ;One pound of flour, six ounces of 
beef suet, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half pint of cold water. 

First take the skin from the suet and chop it very 
finely. Place it upon a mixing board and mix it together 
with the flour. Sprinkle over the mixture the salt and 
the baking-powder, make a hole in the centre into which 
pour the water by degrees, mixing in the flour from, the 
sides while pouring the water, when all miist be^ krieaded- 
lightly together, and rolled out when required to the thick- 
ness of half an inch. 

This crust may be used for a boiled meat, or a boiled 
apple pudding. 

Rough PuJBf Paste. — Six ounces of butter, eight 
ounces of flour, one and one-half tablespbonfuls of cold 
water, one-half, teaspoonful of lemon-juice, yolk of one 

egg. 

First sift the flour on to a mixing board. Put with it 
the butter and phop this up roughly with a knife mixing 
at the same time with it the flour. Make a little well in 
the centre of the butter and flour, drop into it the yolk 
of egg, sprinkle over the lemon-juice and cold water and 
knead ^all firmly together. 

Roll the paste out thinly, fold it together and roll 
again, reversing the order of rolling, and repeat this pro- 



LEMON Pl£. 



185 



cess four times, observing to change the direction of roll- 
ing each tinie. 

The paste is then ready to be used and is suitable 
for the covering of either fruit tarts or meat pies. 

Note. — In preparing all crusts that require butter in the making, 
it will be found advantageous to put the butter upon ice until thor- 
oughly hardened before using it. 

PIES AND PASTRIES: 

PIES, 

Pie Crust. — Twelve ounces of flour, six ounces of 
butter, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one gill of cold water. 

Place the flour and butter together in a bowl and mix 
them lightly with the fingers. When thoroughly blended 
add the baking-powder and the salt, pour in upon this the 
cold water and stir all well together, and flouring a mix- 
ing board turn this mixture out upon it and knead all to 
a light dough. When required roll this dough out very 
thinly and line the pie tin with it. 

Note. — When fresh, sweet lard can be obtained it may be substi- 
tuted for butter in making pie crust or mixed in equal parts with it 

Ijemon Pie. — Two lemons, five tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, three eggs, one teacupful of milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls of com starch. 

Grate the rind of the lemons into a bowl, chop the 
pulp of the lemon very finely and mix it with the grated 
rind in the bowl. To this add the corn starch and beat 
all smooth with the cold milk. Separate the yolks from 
the whites of the eggs and placing the whites upon a plate 



1 86 PIES AND PASTRIES. 

drop the yolks in with the mixture in the bowl, and 
beat all well together, adding two tablespoonfuls of the 
sugar. 

Line a pie tin with pie crust, see page 185, pour 
the mixture from the bowl into it, and placing the tin 
into a moderate oven, bake the pie for twenty minutes. 

Whip to a stiff froth the whites of eggs, and to this 
add the remainder of the sugar, and when the pie is done 
take it from the oven and place over the top the 
sugared froth of egg, when it should be returned to the 
oven for five minutes that the froth of egg may "set" 
and brown slightly upon the surface. Serve hot or cold 
as the taste may dictate, although a lemon pie should 
never be allowed to stand long enough for the crust to 
become soaked with its moisture. 

Apple Pie.— One and one-half pounds of apples, 
three ounces of sugar, one tablespoonful of cold water, 
one-half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Line a pie tin with pie crust, see page 185, wet the 
edges of the crust with a little cold water, pare, core and 
slice the apples and arrange these in the tin. When this 
is dofie sprinkle over the* apples the sugar and nutmeg 
and pour in the cold water ; then cut a covering of the 
crust of the proper size, having rolled it to the thickness 
of one-lhird of an inch, cover the pie with this, pressing 
it firmly together with the lining crust at the edges, 
and cutting two or- three slits in the top with a knife 
to permit the steam to escape while the pie is baking. 

This pie should be baked in a quick oven from twenty 
minutes to half an hour, according to the length of time 
the apples may irequire to be exposed to the heat before 
becoming soft. 1 ■ 



PUMPKIN PtE. 187 

Peach Fie. — One quart of peaches, three ounces of 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls of cream. 

Line a pudding dish with flaky crust — see page 183, 
and cut also a round of the same, large enough to cover 
the top of the pudding dish. Bake the crust lining 
and the covering upon flat baking tins in a quick oven 
for fifteen minutes ; while these are baking, pare and 
slice the peaches, which must be very ripe, mix together 
the sugar and cream and pour over them, and when the 
crust is done, place the prepared peaches in the pie dish, 
, cover them over with the top crust and place all in the 
oven for five minutes ; in order that the fruit may steam 
through and the crust brown lightly upon the surface. 

Note. — When small fruits are to t>e made into pies, such as straw- 
berries, raspberries, etc., they should be treated in the manner above 
laid down, as baking them with the crust causes them to lose flavor 
and freshness. 

Custard Pie. — Three eggs, three gills of milk, one 
ounce of sugar, one- half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Line a pie tin with the pie crust, see page 185, and 
putting the eggs and sugar into a bowl beat them together 
until the eggs become very light. . Add to this the milk, 
and pour all into the crust lined pie tin, place the whole 
in a moderate oven, and bake the pie for half an hour. 

When done, grate over the surface the nutmeg, and 
serve cold or hot as the taste may suggest, although cus- 
tard pie should be cooled at once if desired cold, as the 
crust soaks with standing, and becomes unpalatable. 

Pumpkin Pie. — One-half of a pumpkin, three eggs, 
one pint of milk, one-half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
one saltspoonful of powdered mace, four ounces of ■ 
sugar. 



l88 PIES ANb PASTJilES. 

Parethepumpkin of its yellow rind, retaiove the seeds, 
slice and cut the pumpkin into small pieces, and placing 
these in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and put- 
ting the saucepan over the fire, stew the contents , until 
quite soft and nearly dry, when the pumpkin should be 
iiu=sed through a cullender and made quite smooth. 

Take one pint of the stewed pumpkin, stir into it 
the , milk and sugar, beat the eggs until very light, and 
add these also, after which line a deep pie tin with 
the pie crust, pour into this enough of the pumpkin 
mixture to fill it within a quarter of an inch of the top, 
and place the tin an a quick oven and bake for twenty 
minutes. When done, the spice shoiild be grated over 
the tpp and the pie then be returned for a moment to 
the hottest part of the oven to brown a little on the sur- 
face. 

There will be sufficient of the pumpkin mixture to fill 
two pie tins, which may be used at once if required, or 
set aside until the following day, as pumpl^in pies require 
to be eaten when quite fresh, or the crust becomes 
soaked and indigestible. 



Note. — Squash pie may be prepared in the same way as the pump- 
kin pies. 

Mince Pie. — Fourteen pounds of brown sugar, eight 
pounds of suet, eight pounds of raisins, eight pounds of 
currants, oije-quarter pound of mixed spice, two pounds 
of citron, one-half gallon of brandy, one tablespopnful of 
powdered ginger, one tablespoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon, three ounces of apple, one-half gill of cider, two 
ounces of lean boiled beef, two heaped tablespoonfuls of 
strawberry jam. , 



MINCE PIE. 189 

To prepare the mince meat, which should stand at least 
one month before being used, skin first the suet and chop 
it very finely. Seed the raisins and chop these also very 
finely. Wash the currants well and drying them thor- 
oughly, chop these finely with the citron, which must 
first be cut in very thin slices. 

Place the chopped ingredients in a large bowl, mix 
them thoroughly together and add to this the sugar, the 
mixed spice, cinnamon and ginger, and stirring all well 
together, pour over the brandy, and stir all again until 
thoroughly saturated with the moisture. 

This mince should be packed for keeping, into a stone- 
jar and closely covered. 

When a pie is desired, take out of the jar six heaped 
tablespoonfuls of the mince, put it into a bowl and mix 
the cider and strawberry jam, also the beef which must 
be minced exceedingly fine. Chop the apple also very 
finely and stir this together with the mixture in the bowl ; 
after which line a deep pie tin with puff paste — see page 
182. pour the mince prepared as above into it, cover all, 
with a thin sheet of the paste cut to the proper size, and 
pinching the covering firmly to the lining paste at the 
edges, cut two or three gashes in the top to let the 
steam escape while the pie is baking, brush all over 
with a little white of egg or milk and placing the tin 
in a quick oven bake the pie for three-quarters of an 
hour. 



Note— There is; a Scottish proverb that "mince meat becomes 
poison if minced too fine or kept too long," implying that it is im- 
possible to do either. Mince prepared as above may be kept six 
months or a year if desired. , 



IgO BREAD AND CAKES. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 

BREAD. 

Wheat Bread. — Three and one-half pounds of 
flour, one ounce of compressed yeast, one dessert spoon- 
ful of salt, one and three-quarters pints of. tepid water. 

Place in a large niixing bowl or pan three pounds of 
the flour and mix with it the salt. 

Put the yeast cake into a bowl and covering it with 
the tepid water let it dissolve. 

Make a hole in the centre of the flour and into this , 
pour the yeast and water, pouring it through a strainer to 
remove any remaining lump. Stir into this from the side 
the dry flour, until all becomes srtiooth, and covering the 
bowl place it in a warm, diy place giving its contents two 
hours in which to rise. 

' At the end of this time sprinkle the remaining half 
pound of flour over the light dough and knead all to- 
gether until the dough cleaves cleanly from the sides of_ 
the bowl or pan. 

Divide the doTigh into two equal parts, mould these 
into loaves and greasing slightly two bread pans; place the 
loaves therein and set them in a warm place for. half an 
hour to rise. When this time expires place the bread pans 
into a moderate oven and bake the bread for one hour 
and a half. .;' 

When done the bread should be placed upon a sieve 
or folded towel to cool befdre being put away, otherwise 
the sjeam which it generateSjbeing put into a close place 
hot, will make it damp and heavy, and inclined to crumble 
when dry. 



FRENCH ROLLS. 



191 



Notes, — Rye bread may be made from wheaten potato sponge. 
The sponge must be set over night by taking three potatoes, boiling 
them, and mashing these in a half pint of the liquor in which they are 
boiled, stir in also wheat flour until a light batter is made and break- 
ing into this half of a yeast cake mix all thorojaghly together and stand 
in a warm place to rise. With the addition of this yeast, the rye bread 
is prepared in the same manner as the wheat. 

Flour should be sifted for bread as well as for pastries and cake. 

Iffilk Rolls. — One pound of flour, one ounce of 
butter, one ounce of sugar, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, one saltspoonful of salt, one-half pint of milk. 

Put the flour into a bowl and rub into this the butter 
with the hands. Add to this the salt, half an ounce of the 
sugar and the baking-powder. Make a well in the centre 
of the mixture, pour into it the milk, stir into this the dry 
flour from the sides, and turning all out upon a mixing 
board, knead all together as quickly and lightly as possi- 
ble. Cut the dough into six pieces, and draw each piece 
quickly to the length of about four inches, with a sharp 
knife cut each roll twice across the top, place them side 
by side upon a slightly floured baking tin, and bake them 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

At the end of this time withdraw the tin from the 
oven, brush the rolls over with a little milk, sprinkle over 
their tops the remainder of the sugar, and return them to 
the oven for one minute to dry the milk. Serve hot. 



Note. — In using baking powder for dough, the quicker the mix- 
ture containing it is baked, and the less handled, the more satisfac- 
tory the result. 

French RoUs. — One ounce of butter, one saltspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half pint of milk^ one egg, two tablespoon- 
fuls of brewers yeast, one and one-half pounds of flour. 



192 SttkAL) Ai^OCAkES. 

First place the butter and milk together in a, tin basin 
and placing this over the fire, let them heat until the milk 
becomes tepid. 

Put the yeast into a mixing bowl, and pour oyer this 
the tepid mixture. Beat the egg thoroughly, and pour 
this also into the bowl, together with the salt, stir into the 
mixture the flour, cover the bowl with a cloth and 
stand it in a warm place for two hours, to allow its con- 
tents to become light. 

At the end of this time knead the light dough until it 
cleaves from the sides of the bowl, after which divide it 
into twdlye rolls, form them upon a mixing board and 
place them on a slightly floured baking tin, a,nd allowing 
them to stand to rise for twenty minutes, bake in a quick 
oven for ten minutes. 'Serve hot. 

Milk Biscuit. — One gill of milk, one ounce of but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one-half pound 
of flour, one saltspoonful of salt. 

Put the milk into a small saucepan together with the 
butter, and place all over the fire. 

When the milk becomes tepid, put the flour into a 
bowl, mix with it the salt and baking power, and pour 
into the centre of this the contents of the saucepan. 
Mix all to a stiff, sHiooth paste, turn this out upon a mix- 
ing board, and roll it out as thinly as possible. 

Take a small biscuit cutter and cut the dough into 
roiindS, pricking each several times on the top with a 
fork. , ■ 

Arrange the biscuit upon a slightly greased baking 
cin, and bake theni in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

Muffins.— One pint of milk, one pint of flour, one 
teaSi)oonful,of salt, two ounces of butter, three eggs. 



TIBBIE suiEVs.oR girhle scones. 



193 



Put the flour into a bowl, mix with it the salt, make 
a little hole in the centre of the flour, and separating the 
whites from the yolks of the eggs, drop the yolks into 
this hole, and place the whites upon a plate. 

Melt the butter, taking care that it does not become 
hot, and pour this over the yolks of eggs, when the milk 
also must be poured in, and as it is poured the dry flour 
must be worked in from the sides. 

When all the flour is mixed in, the mixture should be 
beaten until bubbles arise upon its surface. 

Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this, 
lightly into the batter. 

Slightly grease and heat twelve muffin rings, place 
them into a baking pan and pour into them equal parts 
of the batter, when they must be put into a very quick 
oven and baked for ten minutes. Serve hot. 



Note. — ^A very delicious mu£Sn may also be made after this 
recipe, of equal parts of com meal and wheat flour. 

Tibbie Shiel's or Girdle Scones. — One pound 
of flour, one teaspoonful of bi-carbonate of soda, one-half 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, three gills of butter milk. 

Put the flour into a bowl and mix through it the salt, 
place the soda and cream of tartar upon a plate, and make 
all smooth with the back of a teaspoon. Mix this also 
with the flour, pour in the butter milk and stir all thor- 
oughly together. 

Flour a mixing board, pour the batter out upon this, 
and adding a little flour from time to time to prevent 
sticking, knead the batter until it becomes a dough, stiff 
enough to roll out. 



194 BREAD AND CAHrJSS. 

Cut thcidough in two pieces, and roll each piece out 
round, and to about half an inch in thickness. Divide 
each round into four pieces, place them on a heated gir- 
dle and bake them fifteen minutes, turning them once 
meantime. Serve cold with butter. 

Soda Scones. — One pound of flour, two ounces of 
butter, one ounce of sugar, one teaspoonful of carbonate 
of soda, one-half teaspoonfu-l of cream of tartar, three 
gills ,of butter milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the flour into a bowl, mix through it the salt and 
then rub into it the butter. Put the soda and cream of 
tartar together upon a plate, and rub them free of lumps 
with the back of a spoon, after which mix them in with 
the flour and butter. 

Add to this mixture half of the sugar and all of the 
milk, and when these are stirred thoroughly in, pour the 
batter out upon a floured mixing board. Knead it with 
a little dry flour until stiff enough to roll out, when cut- 
ting the dough in two pieces, roll each of them to a round 
about half an inch in thickness, and marking each with a 
sharp knife from side to side at right angles, place them 
on a slightly floured baking tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for twenty minutes. 

At the end of this time draw the tin from the oven 
long enough to brush the scones over with a little butter- 
milk, sprinkle them with the remaining sugar, and return 
them to the oven for one minute. Cool the scones upon 
a sieve or folded towel before serving; 

Note. — In using soda, care should be taken that the quantity 
given is not exceeded, and when a teaspoonful is required, the spoon 
should be just level full, otherwise the preparation will be turned very 
yellow. 



CORN LUNN. igj 

Folded Rolls. — One pint of milk, two ounces of 
butter, two medium sized potatoes, one-half teacupful of 
brewers yeast, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two pounds of flour. 

Bring the milk first to a tepid degree of heat, add to 
it the butter, and when the butter has melted, pour all 
into a mixing bowl, and add to these the potatoes which 
must have been boiled and finely mashed. Mix in the 
salt and sugar, and thicken all with half of the flour. 

Cover the bowl with a cloth, and set it in a warm 
place to rise through the night. 

When light knead the" batter to a dough with the 
remainder of the flour, and let it rise the second time, the 
length of time required for this depending upon the 
quality of the yeast, heat, etc., but should not exceed an 
hour. 

When light, place the dough upon a board, roll it out 
to about an inch in thickness, and cut this into rouads 
with a large sized biscuit cutter. Have ready now in a 
saucer a little melted butter, and brush over one-half of 
the roll with this, folding the other half over upon it. 
When this is done, arrange the rolls upon a slightly floured 
baking tin, set them to rise for the third time, and when 
this is done, place the tin into a quick oven and let the 
rolls bake therein for ten minutes. Serve hot. 



Note. In preparing all yeast and risen breads, care should be 

taken that the process of rising is not retarded by a chill, nor unduly 
accelerated by excessive heat, as the one will produce hard, heavy 
bread, and the other sour, hollow loaves. 

Corn Lunu. — One teacupful of corn meal, two tea- 
cupfUls of wheat flour, otichalf teacupful of sugar, two 



\ 



196 BREAD AND CAKES. 

ounces of butter, one-half pin.t of sweet milk, three eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

The flour, corn meal and sugar must first be well 
mixed together, and the baking-powder must be added to 
these. Melt the butter and pour it, into the centre of the 
prepared flour and mix all to a batter with the milk. 

Break the eggs into a: small bowl and beat them until 
very light, pout this over the batter and stir it in. ^ 

Grease a bread pan or pudding dish and pour the bat- 
ter into it, filling it about half full. Place this in a quick 
oven and bake for twenty minutes. Serve hot, covered 
with a napkin. 

Note. — If com bread is preferred not sweetened, the sugar may be 
left out of the above preparation. 

Gaieties.— ^One ounce of compressed yeast, one 
dessert spoonful of sugar, one and one-half gills of milk, 
one gill of cold water, two pounds of floury seven eggs. 

Put the yeast and the Sugar into a mixing bowl. Bring 
the milk and water to a tepid degree of heat and pour- 
ing this over the powdered yeaSt and Sugar, stir these 
together until both sugar and yeast dissolve. 

Mix into this as much flour as will make a firm dough, 
covered with a towel, and place it in a warm place to rise, 
which will take about, two hours. 

Put into another bowl one pound of the flour, and into 
this drop one by onej: the eggs. To this add half a gill of 
milk, and beat all together with the hand for fifteen min- 
utes. 

When the dough has risen, mix into it the beaten flour, 
egg and milk; beat all again with the hand until the 
different components are thoroughly blended. 



SULTANA CAKE. 



197 



Set this again for two hours in a warm place to rise, 
add the remainder of the flour and knead the dough 
slightly. Cut from it pieces of dough which should be 
moulded in the hands, to the shape and size of a large 
egg. Gash them over the surface with a pair of scissors, 
place them upon a slightly floured baking tin, let stand 
for a short time to resume their lightness, and |bake in 
a quick oven for fifteen minutes, drawing them out, how- 
ever, when about half done, long enough to sprinkle each 
galette with a little sugar. Serve either hot or cold ac- 
cording to taste. 

BREAD AND CAKES. 

CAKES. 

Sultana Ceike. — One-half pound of flour, one 
quarter of a pound of butter, one-quarter of a pound of 
powdered sugar, one-quarter of a pound of sultana raisins, 
one teaspoonful of baking-powder, rind of one lemon, one 
ounce of citron, one-half gill of milk, two eggs. 

First line a cake tin with a sheet of greased kitchen 
paper, put the flour into a mixing bowl and rub into it 
the butter. with the hands. Add to these the baking- 
powder and the grated rind of lemon, and cutting the cit- 
ron into thin small slices, stir this in also. 

Put the eggs and sugar together in a small bowl, 
beat these until very light, stir into this the milk, after 
which the mixture should be poured into the mixing bowlj^ 
and all thoroughly beaten together. , 

Place the raisins into a towel and rub them in this 
until the stems and all extianeous matter are rubbed ofif. 



igg BREAD AND CAKES. 

pick them out and stir into the cake batter as quickly 
as possible, and pouring all into the prepared baking pan, 
bake the cake in a moderate oven for an hour and a 
quarter. 

When done remove the cake from the oven and place 
it upon a sieve to cool. 



Notes. — The cake tins should always be prepared before the cake, 
because when baking powder Is used there should be no delay in bak- 
ing, as it effervesces but once, and the mixture to be raised should 
be firmed by the heat while the baking powder is doing its work. 

For this same reason the raisins should also be prepared prior to 
the stirring of the cake and added last, because being heavy, they 
naturally sink to the bottom of the mixture if allowed to stand. 
Raisins should be never be washed, as it is extremely difficult to dry 
them thoroughly and the moisture which they would gather in being 
washed must inevitably cause heaviness in whatever they are used. 

Cakes should always be tested before being removed from the 
oven with a skewer or clean broom splint, for the reason that if ex- 
posed to a chill before thoroughly done they will always fall. If done, 
the skewer or broom splint will come out of the cake without any 
dough clinging thereto.- The oven should always be kept closed, 
until the cake dough firms, and opened thereafter as little as is con- 
sistent with the proper watching of the baking. 

Cream Cake, — One teacupful of sugar, two teacup- 
fuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, four eggs, one-ha,lf pint of milk, one table- 
spoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one egg, 
one saltspoonful of salt, six drops of essence of almond. 

Put the flour and sugar into a mixing bowl, and rub 
them together. 

Place the soda and cream of tartar upon a plate, and 
rub the lumps out of them with the back of a spoon, and 
mixing these with the sugar and flour, make a hole in" the 



ORANGE CAKE. 



199 



centre of the dry ingredients, and drop into it one by one 
the yolks of the four eggs. 

Place the whites of eggs upon a dry plate, and with a 
dry knife whip them to a stiff froth, after which stir the 
froth lightly together with the contents of the mixing 
bowl. 

Grease well with butter four jelly cake tins, spread 
an equal portion of the cake batter upon each, and bake 
these in a quick oven for seven minutes. 

While the cakes are baking, put the milk, into which 
throw the salt, into a saucepan over the fire, and bring it 
to the boiling point. 

While this is boiling beat the one egg until very 
light,, stir into this a tablespoonful of flour and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and when the milk boils, remove it 
from the fire, let it cool for one minute and add to it the 
egg mixture. 

Return the saucepan to the fire and let its con- 
tents boil for one minute, stirring it meanwhile to prevent 
scorching. 

Take the saucepan again from the fire and drop into 
it the essence of almond, and removing the cakes from 
the tins, place them one upon the other upon a flat dish, ' 
spreading between each layer of cake, equal portions of 
the cream from the saucepan. Serve with a little pow- 
dered sugar sprinkled over the top. 



Note.— Jelly cakes may be made also from this recipe, substitn- 
ting jelly for the cream, and with this purpose the ingredient for the 
cake and cream have been given in separate quantities. 

Orange Cake. — Two ounces of butter, six ounces 
of sugar, two teacupsfuls of flour, one-half teacupful of 



200 BREAD AND CAKES. 

sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
tea.spoonful pf soda, three eggs, one orange. 

Put the flour, butter, and three ounces of the sugar, 
in a mixing bowl. Rub them all lightly togetiier, and 
making a well in the centre, drop iilto it the yolks of 
the eggs. Rub the cream of tartar and soda smooth of 
lumps, and stir them into the milk. Pour this over the 
yolks of eggs, and stir all well together. Whip the whites 
of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix this lightly in with the 
contents of the mixmg bowl, and greasing three jelly cake 
tins, spread the batter in equal portions over each. Bake 
these cakes in a quick oven for seven minutes. 

While the cakes are baking, grate into a sieve the rind 
from the oringe, place the sieve over a bowl and squeeze 
through it the juice of the orange, passing the grated 
dust of the orange rind through at the same time. 

Whip the remaining white ■ of egg to a stiff froth, and 
add to this froth, by degrees, the remaining three ounces 
of sugar and the orafige preparation. 

Remove the cakes from the oven to a sieve, and when 
they become cool, arrange them one upon the other upon 
a flat plate, spreading between each layer of cate equal 
portions of the orange iceing. 

Sncw Cake. — One pound of arrow root, one-half 
pound of powdered sugar, one-half pound Of butter, 
whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon. 

Pass the arrow-root through a wire ^ieve to remove 
the lumps. . Beat the sugar and butter together to a cream, 
and add to these by degrees the arrow-root, beating the 
mixture constantly while sprinkling the ^rrow-root in. 

Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add these 
also to the mixture, after which beat all together for twenty 



SPONGE CAKE. 20I 

minutes, until the mixture becomes a very smooth batter, 
and looks very white. 

Add to the batter the lemon-juice, grease a cake tin 
with butter and pour the batter into it, and placing this 
in a moderate oven bake the cake for one hour and a 
half. 

Found Cake, — One pound of flour, one pound of 
butter, one pound of sugar, eight eggs, one wineglassful 
of brandy, one saltspoonful of salt, rind of two lemons. 

Break the eggs into a bowl and beat them until very 
light. 

Place the sugar in a large bowl, add to it the butter 
and beat both to a cream. Stir into this cream the flour 
and the beaten eggs, pouring each in in alternate small 
portions until all is well beaten together. 

Add to the mixture the grated lemon rind; the salt, 
and brandy, stir these until thoroughly blended, when, 
greasing a cake tin, pour into it the cake batter and plac- 
ing this in a moderate oven, bake the cake for one hour 
and three quarters. 

When done, place the cake immediately upon a sieve 
to cool. 

Sponge Cake. — Three teacupftils of sugar, thfee 
teacupfuls of flour, ten eggs, rind of one lemon, one tabie- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. 

Put the sugar into a mixing bowl and separating the 
yolks from the whites of the eggs, place the whites upon a 
plate and drop the yolks one by one into the sugar and 
beat these together for half an hour. 

Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this in 
with the contents of the mixing bowl. Add to the mix- 
ture by degrees the flour, beating all constantly and as 



202 ' BREAD AND CAKES. 

the flour is being beaten in/ sprinkle in from time to 
the lemon-juice and the grated rind of lemon. 

Pour the batter without any delay, into a baking tin 
that has been greased with butter and placing the tin in gi 
moderate oven, let the cake bake therein for an hour and. 
a half. 

Rock Cake. — One pound of flour, three ounces of 
butter, three ounces of sugar, .three ounces of sultana' 
raisins, two eggs, one teaspoonful of powdered ginger, one- 
half gill of milk, two teaspoonf uls of baking powder. 

Put the flour into a mixing bowl, add to it the butter 
and rub these thoroughly together with the hands. 

When this is done, add to the mixture the sugar, gin 
ger and baking powder and rub these also until well 
mixed. 

Pla,ce the raisins in a towel and rubbing from them 
the stems, pick these out and throw them into the mixture, 
stirring lightly while doing so. 

Put the eggs into a small bowl, beat them until very 
light, add to them the milk and stir this into the dry in- 
gredients in the mixing bowl, which should bring the mix- 
ture to a dough stiff enough to hold the spooh perpen- 
dicular in the centre. 

' Grease with butter a flat baking tin, take two forks 
and lift with them rough pieces of the dough and plate 
them upon the tin. 

Place the tin in a very hot oven and bake the cake 
for fifteen minutes. Serve when cool. 

Yorkshire, Tea Cakes.^Three eggs, one pint of 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one piece of sal volatile 
the size of a pea, one pound of flour. 

3reak the eggs into a bowl and beat them until very 



FRUIT CAKE 



203 



light. Add to them the milk, and dissolving the sal vola- 
tile and salt in sufiScient water to cover them, add this to 
the milk and eggs, and add to the liquids the flour by 
degrees, and beat all well together. 

Grease some shallow tins the size of breakfast saucers,- 
fill them half full with the batter, and placing them in a 
quick oven, bake them for fifteen minutes. 

Notes. — If tins of the given size are not available, delf saucers 
may be used for baking these cakes. 

These cakes make also a delicious breakfast dish. 

Ginger Bread. — Three pounds of flour, one pound 
of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of treacle or 
molasses, two 'ounces of brown ginger. 

Put the flour in a mixing bowl together with the sugar. 
Sprinkle over these the ginger, and mix all well together. 

Pl^ce the butter and treacle or molasses, into a sauce- 
pan, and stir them over the fire until both are melted. 

Pour the melted ingredients in with the flour and 
sugar in the mixing bowl, and stir all well together. 

Grease with butter two bread tins, pour the mixture 
.n equal portions into them, and placing the tins in a 
moderate oven, let the cakes bake therein for an hour 
and a half. 

Fruit Cake. — Two pounds of raisins, one pound of 
currants, one pound of citron, one pound of flour, four 
eggs, one-half pint of milk, one pound of sugar, one-quar- 
ter pound of butter. 

Seed and pick the stems from the raisins, after which 
chop them roughly. Wash and dry the currants and put 
them together with the chopped raisins in a mixing bowl. 
Rub together the butter and flour, and stir this in with the 



204 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

fruit, after which cut the citron intp thin slices, and mix 
these in also, adding at the same time the sugar. 

Break the eggs into a separate bowl, and beat them 
until very light, add to them the milk and pour this liquid 
over the fruit mixture, stirring all well together. 

Put the cake mixture into a greased bread pan, and 
bake in a slow oven for two hours. 



Note. — Spices may be used in fruit cake if desired, also a wine- 

, glassful of brandy, and it will always be profitable if convenient, to 

double or even treble the quantities here given for this cake, as the 

larger the bulk of fruit.'the more delicious the cake, and also the longer 

fruit cake is kept the better it becomes. 

BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Sheep's Trotters.— Six sheep feet, two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, yolks 
of two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, one dessert 
spoonful of sherry. 

When the feet have been scalded and scraped, put 
them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water and 
place the sautepaii over the fire. When this water boils, 
drain it off, and cover them again with water that is bpilT 
ing, allow them to simmer very slowly in this until 
the meat will separate from the bone. Take the feet 
from the saucepan, remove the bones, and cut the 
meat into small pieces. Put these pieces of meat into 
a fresh saucepan, and pour over them a pint and a. half 
of the liquor in which the feet were boiled. Place this 
saucepan over the fire and as the liquor boils up, skim 
it carefully. Add to the trotters the sherry, pepper 



SHEEP-HEAD PIE. 205 

and salt, and let all simmer slowly together for twenty 
minutes. 

Beat in a bowl the yolks of eggs, add to them the 
chopped parsley and nutmeg, and taking the saucepan 
from the fire, let its contents cool a little, and add thereto 
the egg mixture from the bowl. 

Stir all well together, adding at the last moment the 
cream, and serve at once. 

Calf's Liver.— One and one-half pounds of calf's 
liver, one-quarter pound of bacon, one teaspoonful of 
mixed herbs, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teapoonful 
of pepper, yolks of two eggs, one teacupful of cream. 

Place the liver in a saucepan over the fire, and cover- 
ing it with cold water, let it boil therein for three-quarters 
of an hour. * 

Take it from the water, allow it to become per- 
fectly cool, and then grate it fine upon a carrot grater. 
Put the grated liver into a bowl, and chopping the bacon 
very fine, mix it therewith. 

Add to this mixture the herbs, pepper and salt, beat 
well together the yolks of eggs and the cream, and mix 
these in also. 

Put all into a saucepan, ajid placing this over a very 
slow fire, stir the preparation until very hot, not at any 
time allowing it to boil. Serve upon a hot dish. 

Sheep-head Pie. — One sheep's-head, one-half pound 
of bacon, one teaspoonful of pepper, one dessert spoonful 
of salt, two hard boiled eggs. 

When the sheep's head is cleaned, put it iiito a sauce- 
pan over the fire, and covering it with . cold water bring . 
it quickly to the boiling point, and when boiling, skim the 
surface very carefully. Draw the saucepan to one side of 



206 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

the fire and let its contents simmer, very slowly until the 
meat will separate from the bones of the head. 

Take the head from the boiling water, remove the 
meat from the bones, and cut this into small pieced. 
Skin the tongue and cut it into small pieces also. Mix 
the tongue and the meat together, put a layer of the mixture 
about an inch in thickness into the bottom of a pie dish, 
cover this with a layer of bacon, and oyer this one of the 
hard boiled eggs cut in slices. Sprinkle over all some 
pepper and salt, and repeat the ^ alternating layers of 
chopped meat, bacon and egg, until the materials are all 
filled into the dish. -^ 

Pour over the pie three gills of the liquor in which the 
head was boiled, cover all with a flaky crust, see page 
183, and bake the pie in a quick oven for half an hour. 
This dish should be served cold. 

Deviled Turkey.— One pair of turkey legs, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, 
one grain of cayenne. 

Cut the legs from a cold roast turkey, trim them neatly, 
sprinkle over them the pepper, salt and cayenne, grease 
two sheets of letter paper and wrap each leg in one of 
these, twisting the ends of the paper to secure it 

Place the legs thus prepared in a broiler and broil them 
for seyien minutes over a clear fire. 

When broiled, remove the paper and serve the legs very 
hot. 

^dney Oinelette.— Eight eggs, four sheep kid- 
neys, one gill of brown stocik, one dessert spoonful of 
mushroom catsup, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one-half ounce of flour, three 
ounces of butter. 



HAM OMELETTE. 



207 



Put one ounce of the butter into a saucepan. Cut 
each kidney into eight pieces, put the flour upon a plate 
and roll the pieces of kidney in it until they are com- 
pletely blanketed with the flour. Throw the kidney into 
the hot butter and brown each piece well upon both sides. 
Pour into the saucepan, over the browned kidney, the stock 
and catsup, season all with half of the pepper and salt, and 
covering the saucepan draw it to the side of the fire, and 
let its contents cook very slowly for one hour. 

Beat in a bowl the eggs until the yolks and whites are 
mixed, sprinkle over them the remainder of the pepper 
and salt, melt an ounce of the butter in an omelette pan 
pour into this half of the well beaten egg, and stir this 
with a spoon until it begins to firm around the edges, after 
which it should remain lipon the fire until the egg becomes 
nearly all firm. 

Put upon the omelette half of the stewed kidney, fold 
the omelette over so that the outer edges meet. Let it 
remain a minute longer in the pan and turn it quickly out 
upon a hot platter. 

Repeat this process with the remaining egg and kidney 
and when the second omelette is ready, place it beside the 
first upon the platter and serve as speedily as possible. 

Ham Omelette, — Eight eggs, one teaspoonful of 
pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, three 
tablespoonfuls of cold boiled, chopped ham. 

Break the eggs into a bowl and beat them with, a 
wooden spoon until the yolks and whites blend. 

Melt one ounce of the butter in an omelette pan, stir 
into the beaten egg, the choppe,d ham, pepper and salt, 
and pour half of the mixture into the pan with the hot 
butter. 



2o8 . BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Stir all, until the pmelette begins to set at the edges, 
draw all down to one side of the pan, and when it becomes 
firm on the under side, turn the omelette quickly over to 
the other Side of the pan, without breaking its form, and 
remove the omelette to a hot platter. 

Repeat this process for the second omelette, the cook- 
ing, of which should only consume about two minutes and 
serve both as quickly as possible. 

Dried Herb Omelettes. — One dessert spoonful of 
chopped parsley, two teaspoonfuls of dried mfxed herbs, 
a piece of eschalot the size of a bean, eight eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, two ounces 
of butter. 

Put the eggs into a bowl, and with them the chopped 
parsley, dried herbs, pepper and salt. Chop the eschalot 
finely and throw it in also. 

Beat all together until the eggs are thoroughly blended, 
the yolks with the whites. Melt in an omelette pari, one 
ounce of the butter and when the blue smoke arises pour 
into it half of the mixture from the bowl, and stir this 
until the omelette begins to firm at the edges. ' 

Draw all down to one side of the pan, and when the 
omelette becomes firm on the under side, turn it over to 
the other side of the pan, and transfer it from this at once 
to a hot platter. 

Repeat this process of cooking with the remaining 
omelette mixture, and with as much dispatch as is possible, 
place the second omelette beside the first, and serve im- 
mediately. 



Note. — Omelettes should always be cooHed over a very quick 
6re, and should never consume more than two-minutes in the doing. 



EGGS ON TOAST. 2O9 

Eggs au Flat. — Eight eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, four ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of 
pepper, one teaspoonful of salt. 

Spread half of the bread crumbs upon a platter, 
sprinkle over them half of the pepper and salt, and dis- 
tribute over this in small pieces, two ounces of the butter. 

Break over this one by one the eggs, arranging them 
in a circle upon the bread crumbs, sprinkle over them the 
remaining breaji crumbs, pepper and salt, also distribute 
over this the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and 
place the platter in a hot oven for ten minutes. 

When done the bread crumbs should show a surface 
of pale brown, and the eggs be cooked rare. Serve upon 
the same platter on which the dish is prepared. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Eight eggs, one and one-half 
gills of cream, four ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Put the cream and butter together in a small sauce- 
pan over the fire, and stir them until the butter melts. 
Take the saucepan from the fire and break into it 
the eggs. Sprinkle over these the pepper and salt, and 
returning the saucepan to the fire, stir its contents with 
a fork briskly, until the eggs begin to firm. When this 
takes place, turn all quickly out upon a hot dish and serve 
at once. 

Eggs on Toast. — Eight eggs, two slices of buttered 
toast, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one dessert spoonful 
of lemon juice. 

Place a shallow saucepan over the fire, fill it nearly 
full of boiling water, and into this throw the salt and 
lemon juice. 

Break the eggs one by one into a teacup, and pour 



210 BREAKFAST DISttES, 

chem gently from this into the water, letting each egg 
form before another is put in. 

Allow two minutes and a half to each egg, and remov- 
ing them from the water with a skimmer, place them, so 
drained, upon the slices of buttered toast. 

Curried £!ggs. — Bight eggs, three ounces of butter, 
one and one-half ounces of. flour, three gills of white 
stock, one tablespoonful of curry powder, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. 

Drop the eggs into a saucepan of boiling water, and 
let them boil therein for ten minutes. 

Throw them when boiled into a basin of cold water to 
cool, and while they are cooling melt the butter in a small 
saucepan, stir into it the dry flour and curry powder, add 
the stock by degrees, and when this mixture reaches 
the boiling point, let it continue to boil for two '' min- 
utes thereafter. 

Throw in the salt, sugar and vinegar, and draw the 
, saucepan aside from the fire. 

Take the shells from the eggs and cut them into 
halves, put them into the saucepan with the prepared 
curry, and allow all^ to remain over the fire until the eggs 
are heated through,' taking care however, that the mixture 
does not boil, as this will cause the eggs to break up and 
so injure the appearance of the dish. 

When done pour all carefully into a hot deep dish, 
and serve with boiled rice. 

IMtishroonis. — One ^nd one-half dozens of large, 
fresh mushrooms, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
one eschalot, one-half 'teaspoonful of pepper, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, two ouiices of butter. 



POTATO SAUTE. 211 

Take eight of the largest mushrooms, skin them and 
cut off thi! stalks. 

Chop the eschalot as finely as possible, and chop also 
finely the remainder of the mushrooms. 

Put the butter into a fryin'g pan, and place this over 
the fire letting the butter melt and . become hot. Brown 
in this the eschalot and chopped muslirooms^, sprinkle 
over them the pepper and salt, and stuff the centre of the 
eight skinned mushrooms with this mixture. "- 

Sprinkle over each of these equal portions of the 
bread crumbs, place the mushrooms into a baking tin, 
and placing this in a brisk oven, let them bake therein 
until a skewer will easily penetrate to the centres of the 
mushrooms. 

Take the mushrooms when done carefully from the 
tin to avoid breaking them or disarranging the stuffing 
in their centres, and serve them in a hot dish. 

Potato Saute. — One quart of potatoes, one and 
one-half ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
saltspoonful of white pepper. 

Young potatoes should be used for this preparation, 
and should be first scraped, then thrown into boiling 
water, and allowed to boil rapidly for ten minutes. Drain 
the water carefully from them, cover the saucepan, and 
let the potatoes cook in their own steam until a fork will 
pierce easily to their centres. 

When done, sprinkle over the potatoes the pepper and 
salt, throw in with these the butter, and shake the sauce- 
pan over the fire until the potatoes become a pale brown 
upon their surfaces. Serve very hot. 

Note. — Old potatoes may be used for a saut^ if young ones arf 



212 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

ont of season, and when the old potatoes are so nsed, they should be 
cat into balls or other fanciful small shapes. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Eight large potatoes, one 
pound of beefsteak,' one dessert spoonful of mushroom 
catsup, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper, one grain of cayenne, two ounces of butter, one 

egg- 
Wash and pare the potatoes thinly, and cut off about 
an inch of the smallest end. With a strong teaspoon 
scrape out the centre of the potato, leaving a shell of po- 
tato unbroken about a third of an inch in thickness, and 
throw these shells and their tops into cold water, to keep 
them white until used. 

Chop the steak very finely, add to this the pepper, 
salt, catsup and cayenne, and stir all together. 

Take the potatoes from the water, and drying them 
thoroughly with a towel, pack the meat mixture firmly 
into them. 

Beat the egg until very light, and roll in this both the 
stuffed potato and the tops, and cover the meat stuffing 
with the top cut from each potato, pressed .firmly on. 

Melt the butter in a shallow saucepan, and when the 
blue smoke arises, place the potatoes carefully in the hot 
butter that the tops may not be disarranged, and cover- 
ing the saucepan, let the potatoes cook slowly therein 
for one hour, turning them occasionally in order that 
they maty brOwn evenly on all sides. 

Serve in a hot Vegetable dish. 

Dresden Fatties. — Two slices of white bread, three 
tablespoonfuls of cream, four tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one-half pound of cold boiled salmbn, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one ounce 



DRESDEN PATTIES. 213 

of butter, one-half ounce of flour, one gill of milk, one 
egg- 
Shred the salmon in small pieces, removing from it 
all the skin and bone. 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir into this the 
flour, add the milk and stir all together until boiling. 

Throw into this mixture the shredded salmon and 
season all with half of the pepper and salt. Cbver the 
saucepan and, drawing it to one side of the fire, let its 
contents simmer, but not boil, until the fish is heated 
through. 

The slices of bread should be cut at least an inch and 
a half thick and cut a" large round from each with a bis- 
cuit cutter. With a smaller cutter cut these rounds half 
way through in the centre. 

Put the cream upon a plate and dip the rounds in this, 
quickly in order that they may not soak soft, beat the egg 
thoroughly and roll the founds in this, after which season 
the bread crumbs with the remaining pepper and salt and 
roll the rounds in these also. 

Throw the prepared rounds into hot clarified fat or 
lard and fry them for three minutes. Take them from 
the fat, drain them upon kitchen paper and splitting 
carefully off' with a sharp knife the inner round to the 
depths at which it is cut, scrape out from the centre of 
the large round all of the bread -remaining soft. 

Into this bread cup fill in equal portions the fish mix- 
ture, and place over this the small founds of bread. 
Serve the patties garnished with sprigs of parsley. 



Note. — These patties may also be made with oysters, lobsters, 
trvrfRes, mushrooms or any kind of boiled fish. 



214 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



Chickens Iiivers. — One and one-half dozens of 
chickens livers, one-quarter of a pound of fat bacon, one 
saltspoonful of pepper, one saltspoonful of salt. 

Place the livers into a saucepan, cover them with cold 
water, throw in the salt and bringing the water quickly 
to the boiling point, let the livers boil for five minutes. 

When done, remove the livers from the water, slice 
them lengthwise carefully, in order not to break them, 
and cutting the 'bacon into very thin islices, and of a size 
similar to the slices of liver, thread alternate slices of liver 
and bacon upon a spit, and broil all over a bright fiye 
five minutes, turning them constantly in order that they 
may brown evenly. 

When broiled sprinkle over all the pepper and send 
them to the table on the spit. 



Note. — Livers of chicken or turkey boiled in the manncir above 
described, may also be served with a hot, thick brown sauce poured 
over them, with the addition if desired' of a little cliopped onion, 
browned in batter. 

Fig's Feet. — Four pigs feet, one and one-half pints 
of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper, one ounce of flour. 

When the feet are cleaned and scraped, cut them- each 
across the knuckle deep' enough, to let the water pene- 
trate to the joint. 

Place them in a large saucepan, cover them with cold 
water, and putting all over the fire, let the water boil up. 
When this occurs drain^the first water off. 

Cover the feet with boiling water, and allow them to 
boil in this very slowly until tlie meat becomes tender. 

Pour the water off again, cover the feet wi^h the milH, 



BOILED RICE. 216 

and let them simmer in this very slowly, for half an hour 
longer. 

Mix the flour in a bowl with a little cold/water, and 
beat it smooth. Stir this into the milk in the saucepan, 
sprinkle in also the pepper and salt, and let all cook to- 
gether for five minutes, when the feet should be removed 
to a hot, deep platter, and served with the sauce poured 
over them. 



Note.— Pig's feet are also very delicious broiled, and are prepared 
by first boiling until tender, as directed above. When cool, they 
should be rubbed over with butter, placed in a broiler and broiled for 
' ten minutes over a clear fire. 

Boiled Oatmeal.— One quart of cold water, eight 
tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, one-half dessert spoonful of 
salt. 

Put the water into a saucepan, sprinkle in the oat- 
meal, stirring constantly, and when all has tieen made 
smooth, place the saucepan over a quick fire, and stir its 
contents until boiling. 

When boiling, throw into the porridge the salt, and 
draw the saucepan to one side of the fire, let all simmer 
slowly for half an hour, stirring it occasionally meantime. 



Note. — Oatmeal should always be thrown into cold, water when 
desired to boil, as cold water swells the grain of the meal better, and 
makes it less heating to the blood. 

Boiled Rice. — One-half pound of rice, three quarts 
of boiling water, one dessert spoonful of salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water, and drain it in 
a strainer. P4ace it into a saucepan, pour over it the three 
quarts of boiling water, throw into it the salt, and allow 



2i6 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

all to boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. If at the end of 
this time a grain of the rice may be readily floured by 
rubbing it between the finger and thumb? it is sufficiently 
boiled, but if it be still hard, continue to boil until the 
rice comes to this state, keeping in mind that the quicker 
this cereal is boiled, the dryer it will remain and the more 
free from starchy matter. . 

Pour the rice when donie, from the saucepan into a 
sieve, shaking the sieve as the water drains off, to release 
any fugitive drops that may be held in the, cereal, and 
when dry, serve gj; once heaped lightly in a hot vegetable 
dish. 



Notes. — When rice is desired to fry, it must be boiled slowly and 
without stirring in milk, and when boiled, cut into slices an inch 
thick, and fried in hot clarified fat or lard, until it becomes a delicate 
brown on both sides. 

Gom meal mush, which is made by stirring sifted com meal into 
boiling water, until a batter as thick as can be stirred with a spoon is' 
formed, is also delicious fried in this way, or in hot butter as the taste 
may decide. 

Casserole of Chicken. — Four ounces of cold 
breast of chicken, four ounces of butter, four ounces of 
bread crumbs, two eggs, one-half teacUpful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of sialt, one-half teaspoonful of white pepper. 

Chop first the breast of chicken very finely and rub it 
through a wire sieve. 

Put the meat into a bowl, add to it the yolks of the 
eggs and the butter, and beat all together for ten minutes. 

Add the bread crumbs and the. milk, season all with 
the pepper and salt. Whip the whites of eggs to a stifif 
froth and mix this lightly in. 

Pour the compound when thoroughly mix^d, into a 



TRIPE WITH ONION SAUCE. 



2iy 



well greased pint and a half mould, cover the top of this 
with a piece of paper, and place the mould in a saucepan 
containing sufficient water to reach half way up the sides 
of the mould, and allow its contents to cook in this while 
the water boils for one hour. 

Turn the casserole when done out into a deep, hot dish 
and serve with egg sauce poured over and around it for 
which sauce see recipe on page 163. 

This dish may be garnished with red and green chillise 
if desired. 

Boiled Tripe. — Eight pounds of tripe, one-half 
tablespoonsul of salt. 

Cover the tripe with cold water and let it stand in this 
over night. 

Removing it from the bath, place it in a saucepan, 
cover it with cold water, put the saucepan over a quick 
fire and when boiling, drain the water oflf and cover it 
with additional cold water. 

Continue to drain off and recover the tripe with suc- 
cessive quantities of cold water until the water at last 
boils up quite clear and ceases to give off a disagreeable 
odor. Draw the saucepan to one side of the fire and 
allow its contents to simmer very slowly for five hours 
keeping the pan covered that the watpr may not boil away. 

When done, add the salt and the tripe is ready to dress 
in any manner desired, or may be served simply as it is. 

Tripe Tvith Onion Sauce. — Two pounds of 
boiled tripe, three gills of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
white pepper, one Spanish onion. 

Cut the tripe into small irregular pieces. Put these 
into a saucepan, cover them with the milk, and allow all 
to stew over a slow fire for half an hour. 



2i8 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Throw the onion into boiling water and boil it also for 
half an hour. Take the onion when done from the water, 
drain it thoroughly, and chop it very finely^ 

When the tripe has cooked in the milk the appointed 
letigth of time, draw the saucepan aside from the fire and 
stir into it the chopped onion. Season all with the pep- 
per and" serve at once. 

BaJced Tri^e.— Two pounds of boiled tripe, four 
ounces of bread crumbs, two eggs, one-half pint of the 
liquor in ■vi^hich the trjpe is boiled, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 

Cut the tripe into small irregular pieces, and put a 
layer, a half inch deep, of it into the bottom of a deep dish. 
Sprinkle over this a layer of the bread crumbs and a little 
of the pepper and salt, and continue these alternating 
layers of tripe, seasoning, and bread crumbs until the 
material is all filled into the dish, leaving a last layer of 
bread crumbs upon the top. 

Put the eggs into a^ bowl and beat them until very 
light. Add to'them the tripe liquor, stir these together 
and pour the mixture over the tripe and bread crumbs in 
the dish. 

Place the dish in a moderate oven and let its contents 
bake half an hour, when it must be served in the dish in 
which it is prepared. 



Notes — When the liquor in which the tripe is boiled is not avail- 
able, milk or water may be substituted for it. 

In boiling tripe the salt should never; be used until the tripe >« 
done, otherwise it will be discolored thereby. . 

Brain Cakes. — Brain of two calf s heads, two eggs, 
one ounce of butter one tablespoonful of chopped pars- 



BREAKFAST COFFEE. 



219 



ley, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pep- 
per, one saltspoonful of powdered mace, four tablespoon- 
fuls of bread crumbs. 

Throw the brains into a strong mixture of salt and 
water and let them remain in this for an hour. 

Put them into a saucepan over the fire, cover them 
with cold water and allow them to boif therein for twenty 
minutes. 

At the end of this time take them from the water, 
chop them into rough pieces, place these in a bowl and 
rub into them the butter. Add to the brains two table- 
spoonfuls of the bread crumbs and season all with the 
pepper, salt and mace. 

When these are mixed sprinkle over the preparation 
the chopped parsley and ^rop in upon it, the yolks of the 
eggs. 

Beat all well together, and flouring the hands slightly 
to prevent sticking, form the mixture into small, flat, 
round cakes. 

Whip the whites of the eggs, dip the cakes into this, 
roll them in the remainder of the bread crumbs, throw 
them into hot clarified fat or lard for two minutes, when 
done drain them for a moment upon a piece of kitchen 
paper, and serve them in a folded napkin garnished with 
sprigs of parsley. 

TEAS, COFFEES AND CHOCOLATE. 

Breakfast Coffee. — One tablespoonful of coffee 
for each person, three gills of boiling water to each table- 
spoonful of coffee. 

The coffee should be finely ground, then measured, 



220 i'^-^ S, COFPEES A^/D CHOCOLA tE. 

put it into tlie coffee pot and the boiling water poured 
over it. 

Put the pot over the fite, and let the coffee boil up, 
when it should be drawn quickly aside from the blaze, 
and when the gas arising from the grains of coff.ee have' 
escajied, return the pot again to the fire, and let it again 
boil up. Draw it aside from the fire, and let it stand for 
five minutes to settle, when it is ready for the cups. 



NpTES.— In making black or after dinner coffee, the quantity of 
coifee allowed for each person should be the same, and the amount 
of water added to e&ch. tablespoonful of coffee should be decreased 
one-half. 

Sugar and cream is usedjn breakfast coffee, but sugar only in black 
coffee, with sometimes the addition of a spoonful of brandy to each 
cup, and bilmed upon the sugar, or a few drops of lemon juice if the 
flavor is liked, but these last always at the discretion of the drinker 
and at table. 

TEAS. 

Teas.— One teaspoonful of tea for each person, and 
a teaspoonful additional, three gills of boiling water to 
each teaspoonful of tea. 

Pour first in and out of the teapot a little boiling 
water. Put into it the required amount of tea, and 
pouring over this the boiling water, cover the teapot so 
that no steam may escape, and allow the tea to stand and 
. infuse for seven minutes, when it should be poured at 
once into the cups. 



Notes. — Tea should never be boiled, and should not be allowed 
to infuse longer than seven minutes, as the strength of the leaf will 



CLaRIPJED pat. 221 

all draw out in that length of time, and if allowed to stand longer, will 
develop the tannin in it which gives the acrid, bitter taste of which 
there is general complaint, and which beside being unpleasant, to the 
palate, is destructive to the coating of the stomach, being a powerful 
astringent. 

Teas when properly infased shoidd have a pale, greenish amber 
color ; when boiled or let stand until the tannin develops, it will turn 
to a dark red. 

Cream and sugar are used in English breakfast and black teas. 
Green teas are usually preferred clear, and sometimes with a small 
piece of fresh lemon rind or a few drops of Scotch whiskey at the dis- 
cretion of the drinker. 

Chocolate. — Four tablespoonfuls of grated choco- 
late to each person, one and one-half gills of boiling milk 
and one and one-half gills of boiling water to each por- 
tion of chocolate. 

Mix together the boiling milk and water, and let them 
boil up together. 

Place the grated chocolate into a bowl and stir it to a 
smooth paste with a little cold milk or water. Pour the 
chocolate into the boiling milk and water, and let all boil 
together for two minutes, stirring it constantly meantime. 



Note. — If preferred, the sugar may be mixed with and boiled in 
the chocolate, and if this is done half as much sugar should be used 
as there is chocolate. , 

Cream whipped to a froth is sometimes served with this beverage^ 
and powdered sugar should be used in it instead of the cut loaf. 

Cocoa is made by mixing it with the desired amount of sugar, this 
mixture being placed in the cup and equal quantities of boiling milk, 
and water poured over it, 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
Claxified Fat. — Cut into pieces any convenient 



222 MISCELLANEOUS. 

quantity of fat either of beef or mutton. Place these in 
a saucepan and covering them withhold water, stir all 
until the water boils. 

When boiling skim the surface very carefully and 
allow the preparation to boil thereafter very rapidly until 
the water has all been discharged in vapor. 

The presence of remaining water may be determine 
by the liquid retaining its white color, but when this ha 
all evaporated the fluid will take on the color and ap 
pearance of salad oil. 

When free from water the fat should be strained, and 
is ready for any use to which it is to be'put.' 



NoTE.-^Fat so clarified will keep for any length of time. 

Caramel. — One pound of coarse brown sugar, one 
pint of cold water. 

Put the sugar into a dry saucepan, place this over a 
hot fire and stir the sugar until it melts and turns to a 
darker brown color. Draw the saucepan aside from the 
fire, and add to its contents by degrees the cold water. 

Return the saucepan to the fire, and stir all together 
until the water boils. 

Pour the mixture through a strainer into a bowl, and 
allow it to become quite cold, after which it should be 
placed in a bottle and kept uncorked, to be used as re- 
quired. 



POULTRY. 223 

HOW TO CARVE. 

Poultry requires more careful carving than any- 
thing else brought to table. As a general rule the 
white meat is considered the greater delicacy. A 
fowl roasted may be removed from the dish to the 
carver's plate; and as fowls are generally served in 
couples, this does not disarrange the economy of 
the table. The fork should be placed in the center 
of the breast, and the knife be carried down along 
the side. Then, inserting your knife under the leg, 
cut downwards as far as the tail, and separate the 
ligature near that point, when, jerking the leg back, 
the parts will give way. Next separate the wing 
with the edge of the knife, and carry it through to 
the other side, when the wing is easily detached. 
Separate the other wing and leg in the same way. 
The merry-thought or wish-bone is easily removed 
by inserting the knife under it and bending it back. 
Then remove the neck-bones by putting the fork 
through them, and wrenching them carefully away 
so as not to break them. The breast must next be 
separated by cutting right through the ribs. Then 
turn the fowl back upwards pn your plate and cut it 
up. By some the side-bones and the liver are con- 
sidered dainties, while others prefer the merry- 
thought and neck-bones. The prime parts, however, 
of a fowl, either roast or boiled, are generally con- 
sidered the wings and breast, and where ladies are 
at table it is customary to apportion these joints to 
them. 



i24 HOli^ TO carvjS. 

Turkey may be served in the same way as a 
chicken, excepting that, as thte breast is the most 
delicate part, and affords many good slices, these 
should'be Cut lengthways, and, with thin portions of 
the stuffing, be handed round first. Where the bird 
is large the whole of the breast may be served in 
such slices, and these a judicious carver will eke out 
with slices from the inner part of the thigh, sending 
to ladies, of course, only the former, but to male 
guests one of each. It must be borne in mind that 
the turkey is a dullard, and though Jt has a breast- 
bone, it never had a merry-thought.. Where sausages 
or forced-meat balls are placed on the dish they 
must be served to every guest. 

A Goose. — ^The first slices should be cut down to 
the breast-bone, and be helped round as long as they 
last. Under the aproij, which must be cut open, 
will be found thie stuffing, a part of which should be^ 
served with each helping. If more be required the 
carver riiust next proceed to take off a leg and wing, 
by inserting his fork through the small end of the , 
former, pressing it closely to the body, entering his 
knife, and jerking the leg smartly back, when the 
joint will separate, and it rtiay theri be readily cut 
off. The wing is easily taken off. Place the fork 
in the small end of the pinion, and pressing it close 
to the body, separate the joint with the knife^ and 
cut off the wing. The fleshy part of the wing and 
the thigh are the most favorite pieces after the 
breast. The one should be separated from the 
pinioQ and the other from the drumstick. The neck 



AtTCti-BONk Ok H. SONE Of BEEF. Zig 

and side-bones should also be served previous to the 
back or the drumsticks. These latter, with "the 
mitre," or lower part of the back, are generally for 
"deviling." 

A Green Goose should be cut up like a duck, but 
only about a couple of slices taken from the breast 
before it is served round in separate joints, the 
remainder of the breast counting for one. It is cus- 
tomary entirely to dissect the bird before helping 
any one. 

A Duck maybe carved much in the same way as a 
goose. The slices from the breast are cut, then the 
leg is removed by cutting, and the wing by perform-, 
ing a similar operation. Ducklings are carved in 
the same way as pigeons. 

Pigeons are usually carved into four pieces, and 
then by dividing each piece in half. Many persons 
cut them through the middle lengthways, and serve 
half the bird to each guest. Half a pigeon is not 
considered too much to be placed on a plate at once. 

BEEF. 

Joints are always the great staple of dinner, and 
therefore no one should be ignorant of the proper 
mode of carving them. The carver should always 
remember that hot joints are intended to be eaten 
hot, and that to cut slices neither too thick nor too 
thin is the best way of helping all roast and boiled 
meats. 

Aitch-bone, Heuck-bone, or H. Bone of Beef— for the 
derivation of the name is lost in the remotest antiq- 



226 ^EEP. 

uity — is the hiost favorite joint of salt beef. Jn all 
boiled meats the outer slice should be cut off, 
because the outside, by boiling, becomes hard and 
dry. In this particular case it is doubly necessary 
' that a thick, slice should, be taken off from the top, 
for the salting has hardened it no. less than the 
boiling. Then help handsome, smooth, thin slices, 
giving with each plate a little of the marrowy fat, 
and a little of the solid fat. Some recommend the 
slices to be a trifle thicker, and to taper off. No 
fluid should be placed in the dish, as the gravy that 
flows from the meat is all that is required. 

A Round of Beef is carved in the same way as the 
edge-bone, and the slices must be cut as thin as pos- 
sible, after having removed a very thick outside 
. slice to another dish.' 

A Brisket of Beef is cut down to the bone the long 
way, in thin slices, as the piece is fat and gristly, 
and all fat meat requires care not to serve the fat 
in too, solid' a mass. 

A Sirloin of Beef is said to be "a knightly joint." 
There are two ways of carving it. That which is 
the more ancient is still the most prevalent, and 
that is to serve it in long, slices, vyhich of itself 
apportions the fat to the lean. The other way is to 
begin in the middle and cut it across. In either 
case, a piece of the soft marrowy fat should accom- 
pany the slice, along with a sufficiency of gravy, 
which a generous joint will supply to the last. The 
browned outside should be offered, but not sient 
without asking. Many prefer, the under side. In 



SADDLE OF MUTTON. 227 

that case the joint must be turned over, and cross 
slices cut. 

Ribs of Beef are carved in the same way as the 
sirloin, under its first and earlier method, care being 
taken to commence always at the thinnest part of the 
meat. When the ribs are boned and the meat rolled 
like a filet of veal, they are cut up like that joint. 

MUTTON OR LAMB. 

A Leg of Mnttoa has its n;iost juicy part in about 
the middle or thick of the thigh. The shank should 
lie to the carver's left hand if boiled, to his right if 
roasted. The first cut should be made through the 
noix or kernel, called the pope's eye. The fat lies 
in two directions. From eaqh of these a nice slice 
should be cut, and, with gravy from the meat, 
helped round with each portion. Some persons 
serve the outer side uppermost, as in the roasted 
leg. 

A Shoulder of Hutton, which Quin delighted in 
hot, and George III., or "Farmer George," luxuri- 
ated in cold, has many nice cuts. The fat should 
be cut in straight slices, and near to it some 
epicure's slices may be found, as all that part of the 
animal which is near the back-bone is prized as 
such. The under side is best cold; but if served 
hot, the oyster pieces to its righti and the hillock 
produce the prime slices, which must be cut hori- 
zontally. 

A Saddle of Untton, which is always a favorite 
joint, consists of two loins. Make an incision in. 



228 MUTTON on LAMB. 

either side, stopping just short of the back-bone, 
and cut lengthwise. Then cut up one side before 
you begin upon the other, and let the slices be of 
moderate thickness; serving with each a thin slice 
of fat, cut lengthways from the outer edge of the 
lower sides. Having finished one side, pursue a 
siniilar line of operations with the other. Help to 
each guest some of the gravy out of the meat. The 
linder part is seldom served hot, yet it contains 
some very delicate eating. 

A Loin of Mutton should always be jointed by either 
the butcher or cook before it is sent to table. The 
carver merely separates the, meat into chops, begin- 
|ning at. the narrow end, and serves them round. 

A Fore-quarter of Lamb requires a careful carver 
to do it justice. Sometimes he will have first to 
separate the shoulder from the ribs. To do this it 
will be necessary to insert the fork towards the 
knuckle, and to cut with the knife held nearly hori- 
zontally, and theil to raise the fork, cutting through 
the meat of the flap, so as not to leave the ribs tipo 
bare. In a well-regulated family, however, all this 
trouble is spared the carver — the cook having seen 
to the separation beforehand— and he has only to 
lift the shoulder with the fork, and to place it on a 
separate dish. He must then separate the brisket 
from the ribs (if hot already done), by cutting 
straight across. To a novice this is no easy matter; 
but practice soon makes perfect. The more solid 
meat lies to the right, and the brisket is to be served 
in squares. A portion of each is usually placed on 



LEG OF PORK. ,229 

the plate. Where that practice does not prevail the 
choice is ribs, brisket, or shoulder; the latter bping 
carved like a shoulder of mutton. 

Leg of Lamb and Loin of Lamb are carved exactly 
as mutton, but the fat being more delicate, it is 
handed round with a more liberal hand. 

PORK. 

A Boast Pig. — To eat this with a proper zest, a 
copy of Elia's Essays should be at the carver's right 
hand; for without it he will forget half the dainties 
which Charles the inimitable has pointed out as 
nestling about the ribs and neck, and ears arid jaw 
of the little favorite. It is usually cut up before it 
■ is sent to table, and the cook should be told to 
divide the head. The carver must then remove the 
brains, and mix them with the gravy and stuffing. 
The pig is cut asunder from the shoulder to the tail, 
right down the center of the back, and subdivided 
into squares. Help each, with its proper adjunct 
of gravy afld stuffing; with a liberal hand; for to 
help roast pig niggardly was deemed a gross insult 
by Dr. Parr, and others may have the like notion. 
The ribs are still esteemed by some the best eating, 
though by others the neck is preferred. The ear 
and jaw are considered delicacies; but the fact is, 
the whole is good eating, and the carver has only tp 
see that it is served as hot as possible. 

A Leg of Pork should be cut across. If boiled, 
the slices are served thinner than when roasted. In 
the latter case the carver is somewhat regulated by 



230 VEAL. 

the incisions made in the skin before roasting, and 
which are known as "crackling" to all lovers of the 
dish. Having made the incjsions, the cu,ts are 
made right and left alternately. The seasoning 
will be found under the skin; but many persons 
send the seasoning in the dish. 

A Loin of Pork is carved as a loin of mutton, 
placing one chop upon each plate. 

A Hand of Pork may be carved by cutting slices 
acrqss, as in a shoulder of mutton, and also from off 
the blade-bone. 

VEAL. 

A Filet of Veal is cut in the same way as a round 
of beef; but as the browned outside is considered a' 
choice part, it should be ascertained whether outside 
or inside be preferred. The horizontal slices should 
'be delicately cut, and to every one a portion of the 
stuffing should be served, with a little of the fat. 

A Loin of Veal may be cut up either into single 
chops, diyiding the meat into handsome slices,, and 
serving the bone with one, or, if the joint chosen be 
the, chump end, in long slices. The smallest end 
contains the more solid meat. The fat and the 
kidney are underneath. The latter is considered the 
epicure's portion, and should not be forgotten. 

A Knuckle of Veal, "whether you buy it or steal," 
is not a dish to be despised, and reserved only for, 
the 3ick-room,. As a veal soup it is in great favor itt 
Scotland, and though not popular cis a joint, there, 
are not wanting thos.e with whom it is a great 



CALF'S HEAD, DIVIDED. 231 

favorite. It reqmres a little practice to carve a 
knuckle of veal neatly, and with satisfaction to 
one's self. It must be cut across. The fat is con- 
sidered a delicacy. 

A Breast of Veal consists of gristles and ribs, and 
it is necessary to separate them. Then divide the 
ribs. The sweetbread should be served round with 
each plate. The choice is gristles or ribs. 

A Oigot, or Gigett of Veal is either cut in h9rizon- 
tal slices, or as a leg of mutton, beginning near to 
the broad end. 

A Shoulder of- Veal is served like a shoulder of 
mutton. Neither the gigot nor shoulder is much 
prized unless the veal be small, when they are deli- 
cate eating. 

A Calf 8 Head, Divided. — In serving this favorite 
dish, take care to press the knife to the bone in 
cutting slices. The root of the tongue should be 
served round to those that like it. There is some 
delicate meat under the jaw-bone. The brains and 
tongue are placed on a separate dish, but care 
should be taken to serve some to each guest. Do. 
this alsb with the palate, seated under the head, 
which should be, therefore, cut up in small pieces 
before you begin to help round. The eye, which 
some fancy, should be divided. 

GAME 

Requires more attention than poultry; because, 
being in the first place less plentiful, a skilful 
^^rver must ftiake the most of what is placed before 



,232 GAME. 

h ... 

him; and in the second place, as the cold birds 
come in well at' the breakfast and thie lunch table, it 
is often as well not to cut off more than is required 
for the immediate occasion. , ' 

A Haiincli of Venison is cut just like a haunch of 
mutton. The fat, .which is highly prized, will be 
found chiefly on the left side. Recollect . that, 
unless venison be fat, it is but mocking the appetite 
of your guests to place it before them, and' that 
everybody likes venison fat. The alderman's walk, 
the primest part of the, joint, is in the side where 
the fat abounds. 

A Hare or Rabbit is usually sent to table on her 
haunches. If the hare be large, a couple o,f long 
slices may first be taken from either side. If so, 
the legs nlust next be taken off, and then separate 
the shoulders. The back; is now to be cut through 
in three or four pieces, going right through, the 
spine. The legs should be divided in two 
Divide algothe head by inserting the point of the 
knife at the top, and cut it through in the direction 
of the nose. Some persons first separate the upper 
from the under jaw.^ The ears should be ci;t off. 
close to the roots. The head, brains, and ears are 
by some persons considered dainty morsels. It is 
becoming the fashion to have hares boned before 
roasting, which saves the carver an immensity of 
trouble. No old hare should be roasted, unless pre- ; 
viously boned; let it be jugged; this is the best way 
of serving it, for it requires great experience to 
c§rve' ^n old hare. It is customary in some locali- 



GROUSE. 233 

ties to cut upMhe whole before any is served. The 
stuffing, to be sent with every plate, will be found 
ifiside. 

A Babbit Boasted is served in the same way as a 
hare; but, being of less dimensions, the back is cut 
in fewer pieces. The head is not sent unless it is 
asked for. It is always a wild rabbit that is roasted. 
It is either stuffed as a hare, or, when young, merely 
served with its own liver sauce. 

A Babbit Boiled may be cut up in the same way 
as its roasted brother. The middle piece of the 
back is the epicure's choice, Coarserfleshed rabbits 
are best boiled or curried. The remains of either 
roast or boiled rabbits or game may be formed into 
quenelles, or forced-meat rissoles — a favorite side 
dish. 

A Partridge is carved partly like a duck and 
partly like a fowl. The breast should bp cut up in 
slices, fixiftg first the fork in its center. Then take 
off the legs and the wings, being careful to hit the 
exact point between th'e wing and the neck-bonq. 
Next remove the merry-thougbt, and the neck-bones, 
side-bones, etc:, as directed to be done with a roast- 
fowl. Split open the head, as many consider the 
brains a luxury. , 

Grouse are carved like partridges; and wood- 
cocks, snipes, quails, and other similar birds, either 
in the same way when there is a scarcity at the 
table, or if plentiful, they are merely cut in halves. 
Upon this point the carver must exercise his owri 
^iiscretioii, 



234 USEFUL HINTS FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER. 

Ham and Tongue are concomitants to so many of 
the good things brought to the festive board, that 
they may welLclaim a word from us. 

A Ham should be cut deliciously thin, not fool- 
ishly so. The most prevalent way is to begin 
cutting your slices near the small end, and proceed 
towards the thick end. That contains all the, prime 
cuts. The knuckle is best dried and grated. A baked 
hani eats shorter than a boiled one, and the slices 
may be cut. much thinner. 

A Tongue is best in the thickest part, . and there- 
fore the proper way is to cut it nearly through at the 
middle. Then serve it in. thin slices, right and left, 
helping fat to those who ask for it. from the under 
side.' A stewed tongue makes a savory dish, and is 
generally served in its own sauce, with small mush- 
rooms or onions. The slices ^re cut from the root 
to the tip, lengthways. ' 

USEFUL HINTS FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER. 

To Ventilate a Eoom.— Place a pitcher of cold 
water on a table in your room and it will absorb all 
the gases, with which the room is filled from the 
respiration of those eating or sleeping in the, apart- 
ment. Very few realize how important such purifi- 
cation is for the heailth of the family, or, indeed, 
understand or realize that there can be any impurity 
in the rooms; yet in a few hours a pitcher or pail of 
cold water^the colder the more effective^ — will 
make the air of a room pure, but the water will be 
entirely unfit for use. 



MOTHS IN CARPETS. 235 

Moths in Carpets.— If y)u fear that they are: at 
work at the edge of the carpet, it will sometimes 
suffice to lay a wet towel, and press a hot flatiron over 
it; but the best way is to take the carpet up, and 
clean it, and give a good deal of attention to the floor. 
Look in the cracks and if you discover signs of 
moths, wash the floor with benzine and scatter red 
pepper on it before putting the carpet lining down. 

Heavy carpets sometimes do not require taking 
up every year unless in constant use. "take out, the 
tacks from these, fold the carpets back, wash the 
floor in strong suds with a tablespoonful of borax 
dissolved in them. Dash with insect powder, or lay 
with tobacco leaves along the edge and retack. Or 
use turpentine, the enemy of buffalo , moths, carpet 
worms and other insects that injure and destroy 
carpets.' Mix the turpentine with pure water in the 
proportion of three tablespoonfuls to three quarts of 
water, and then after the carpet has - been well 
svfept, go over each breadth carefully with a sponge 
dipped in the solution and wrung nearly dry. 
Change the water as often as it becomes dirty. The 
carpet will be nicely cleaned as well as disinfected. 
All moths can be kept away and the eggs destroyed 
by this means. Spots may be renovated by the use 
of ox-gall or ammonia and water. '' 

A good way to brighten a carpet is to put a half 
tumbler of spirits of turpentine in a basin of water, 
and dip your broom in it and (sweep over the carpet 
once or twice, and it will restore the color and 
brighten it until you would think it new. Another , 



1236 USEFUL HINTS POR THE HOVSEtCMEPER. 

good way to clean old carpets is to rub them over 
with meal; just dampen t a very little and riib the 
carpet with it, and when perfectly dry, sweep ovier 
with rheal. After a carpet is thoroughly swept, rub 
it with a cloth dipped in water and ammonia; it will 
brighten the colors and make it look like new. 

To Remove Moths from Furniture. — Moths iiiay be 
exterminated or driven from upholstered work by 
sprinkling this with benzine. The behzitie is put in 
a small watering pot, such as is used for sprinkling 
house-plants; it does not spot the most delicate silk, 
and the unpleasant odor passes off in an hour^or 
two in the air. Care must be used, not to carry on 
this work near a fire or flaime as the vapor of benzine 
is very inflammable. It is said that a little spirits 
of turpentine added to the water with which floors 
are washed will prevent the ravages of moths. 

To Clean Mica-— To clean mica in a stove that has 
been blackened with smoke, take it out and thor- 
oughly Wash with vinegar. If the black does not 
come off at once let it soak a little. 

Novel Dress Mending.— A novel way of mending 
a woolen or silk diress in which a round hole has 
been torn, and wh^re only a patch could remedy 
matters, is the following: The frayed portions 
around the tear should be carefully smoothed, and 
a i piece of the, material, moistened with very thin 
mucilage^ placed under the hole. A heavy weight 
should be put upon it until it is dry, when it is only 
possible to discover the mended place by careful 
observation. 



TO REMOVE THE ODOR OF ONlON. .. 237 

Cement for Broken China or Glass.— Dissolve one- 
half ounce of gum arable in a wineglassful of boiling 
water; add plaster of Paris sufficient to form a. thick 
paste, and apply it with a brush >to the broken parts; 
being nearly colorless, it is better than liquid glue 
or other cements. 

To Set a Color.— One tablespoonf ul of ox-gall in a 
pint of water is siifficient; it is immaterial whether 
cotton, sijk, or woolen fabrics. , . 

To Keep Lemons.^ — Cover with cold waterj'changing 
it every week. This njakes them ripe and juicy. 

To Purify Sinks and Drains. — To one pound of 
common copperas add one gallon of boiling water 
and use when dissolved. The copperas is deadly 
poison, and should always be carefully labeled if 
kept on hand. This is one of the best possible 
cleansers of pipes and drains. All pipes leading 
from the kitchen should have boiling lye turned 
down them once a week at least, in sufficient quan- 
tities to eat away the accumulation of grease that 
coats the interior of the pipe. A few drops of car- 
bolic acid should be poured down the pipes leading 
from stationary washstands. 

To Purify Cisterns. — To purify cisterns where the 
water has an unpleasant odor, suspend in the water 
a musHn cloth containing one or more pounds of 
charcoal. 

Smoked Ceilings. — Smoked ceilings that have 
been blackened by a kerdsene lamp may be washed 
off with soda water. 

To Eemove the Odor of Onion from fish-kettles and 



■iliU^EFVL HINTS FOR THE HO t/SE KEEPER. 

saucepans in which they have been cooked, put in 
wood-ashes or sal soda, potash or lye; fill with water 
and let stand on the stove until it boils; then yirash 
in hot suds and rinse well. 

To Bemove Old Putty from Window Frames pass a 
red-hot poker slowly over it and it will come off 
easily. 

To Trim Lamps. — Do not cut the wick, tprn it just 
above the tube, take a match and shave off the 
charred end, thus insuring an even flame. Then 
turn the wick down below the edge of the tube that 
it may not draw up oil to soil the outside of the 
lamp. Do not fill too full; kerosene kept, in a 
warm room expands considerably and the resiilt, 
will be oily lamps, disagreeable to handle. 

To Prevent a Lamp from Smoking soak the wick in 
vinegar and dry it well before using. 

< To Remove Paint from Window Olass. — Rub it well 
with hot sharp vinegar. 

To Clean Stovepipe. — A piece of zinc put on the- 
live poals; in the stove will clean out the stovepipe. 

To Take Ink out of Linen.— Dip the ink-spot in 
pure iHelted tallow, then wash out the tallow and 
thfe ink will come out with it. This is said to be 
unfailing. Milk will remove ink from linen or 
colored muslins when acids would be ruinoi/s, by 
soaking the goods until the spot is very faint and • 
then rubbing and rinsing in cold water. 

Mosquito Remedy,— :To clear a sleeping-room of 
mosquitoes take, a piece of paper rolled around a 
lead pencil to fortn a case, arid, fill this with very 



PAPER-HANGERS' PASTt. 239 

dry Pyrethrum powder (Persian insect powder),, 
putting in a little at a time, and pressing' it down 
with the pencil; This cartridge, op cigarette, may 
be set in a cup of sand tt) hold it erect. An hour 
before going to bed the room is to be closed, and 
one of these cartridges burned. A single cartridge 
will answer for a small room, but for a large one 
two are required. Those who have tried this find it 
eftectually disposes of thp mosquitoes. 

To Toughen Lamp Chimneys and Glassware., — 
Immerse the article in a pot filled with cold water, 
to which some common salt has been added. Boil 
the water well, then cool slowly. Glass treated in 
this way will resist any sudden change of temper- 
ature. ^. 

Faded Ooods. — Plush goods and all articles dyed 
with aniline colors which have faded from exposure 
to the light will look as bright as new after. sponging 
with chloroform. 

Paper-hangers' Paste. — To make paper-hangers' 
paste beat up four pounds of good, white wheat 
flour (well sifted previously) in sufficient cold water 
to form a stiff batter. Beat it well in order to take 
out all lumps, and then add enough cold'water to 
ijiake the mixture of the consistency of pudding 
batter. To this add about two, ounces of well 
pounded alum. Pour gently and quickly over thfe; 
batter boiling water, stirring rapidly at the same 
time, and -when it is seen to lose the white color of 
the flour, it is cooked and ready. Do not use it, 
however, while hot, but allow it to cool. Pour 



240 USEFUL HINTS WR THE HOUSEKEEPER. 

about a pint of cold-water over the top to prevent a 
skin from forming. Before using, the paste should 
be thinned by the addition of cold, water. 

To Clean Iron Sinks. — Rub them well with a cloth 
wet with kerosene oil. 

Death to Bugs. — Varnish is death to the most per- 
sistent bug. It is cheap — ten cents' worth will do 
for one bedstead — is easily used, is safe,- arid 
improve^ the looks of the furniture to which, it 
is applied. The application must, however, be 
thorough — the slats, sides and every crack and 
corner receiving attention. 

' To Drive Away Bed Bugs. — Take the whites of/ 
four eggs and ten cents' worth of quicksilver, and 
beat together until a stiff froth. Take a feather, 
dip in, and apply to the bedstead. 

Ammonia is not only useful for cleaning, but as a 
household, medicine. Half a teaspoonful taken in 
half a tumbler of water is far better for faintness than 
alcoholic stimulants. In the Temperance Hospital, 
, in London, it is used with the best results. It was 
used freely by Lieutenant Greely's Arctic party for 
keeping up circulation. It is a relief in nervous- 
ness, headache and heart disturbances. 

Canned Fruit is much better if opened an hour or 
two before using, to restore the oxygehi 

Bhnbarb scalded a few minutes before coQking 
■ will require njuch less sugar. 



